„. . * ■ .■ . . v.', . V.i-- • -
. .
.
' #a?ette Philadelphia Dally Advertiser.
Nvmbks 12C1.1 MONDAT EVENING, SEPTEMBER 12, 1796-
" — 11 ii.-- V? n sT— * r> r» rrr r* T"\ /* T .'/i ,1 t- '/*) D C*/! I TP
>> J
F O.R SALE,
The Schooner LAR K,
One Hundred ind twenty tons burthen. !
V' if 11 A newreffel well found, well built, & pul
fails extremely fact. For terms apply wi]
to the miller <Jn board, or to ' • w "
•Joseph Anthony & Co. _
If the above vessel is not fold ip a few days, flje will _
take fre ght on very low terms for Boston.
Sept. iO. <1
FOR LONDON, •
' Th« capital (hip CERES, J
A fail soon :—For freight or passage
apply .to DAVY, ROBERTS & Co. or
"John Vaugbari,
September 10. Front-street.
For Sale or Charter, i„
BOSTON,
BURTHEN about aoob Bbls. of flour—fce may he sent
to sea at a small expence, her fails and rigging being in Ot
very good order—apply to
James Campbell, or
George Latimer.
April aq, ? —
' FOR SALE,
Si The (hip STAR,
John Vanneman, Mailer, N<
T YING at Walnut-ftraet wharf, Philadel
-1 1 phia built, of live oak and cedar, will lo
carry about 3100 barrels, is two years old, and in com
plea order to receive a cargo —For terms apply to —
THOS.&J3HN KETLAND.
\Vho-hare-«J£»-£®r-fiife -fcid v«l£sis of—
Wine and Porter bottles,
Window Giafs, 6 by 3 to 16 by 12. ,
Pipes in boxes. f
Earthen-Ware in crates. oa
Grindstones, Coals, Whiting, &e. au
AUg. 29 §
At South-ftrcet wharf,
WILL BE LANDED, Friday, 19th inft. August, r
by snow Hope, from Jamaica, and Hoop Salty,
from Port-au-Prince,
300 Hhds. COFFEE,
70 Hhds. SUGAR, y
Also, the znrgo of the Swedish brig Gufiaf Atlolpbe, }'
. capt. Ramfre, from Gibraltar, be
ift and /,th proof Brandy, in pipes and hhds.
Hazle Nuts in faAcs > n
St. Übcs SALT, for/ale by co
PETER BLIGIIT. P r
>—«a For Charter,
«Thefaidbrig t
Gustaf Adolphe,
A Swede, with a Mediterranean pass»
a very fine vefTel, about 100 tons tu:- T
then. A"g-
For Sale or Charter,
fast-sailing SHIP St
Jm, light-horse,
LYING at Mess. J. & R. Wain's wharf,
two hundred and 'seventy tons burthen, a flout, Strong- .
vessel, and well found- For terms apply to
Joseph Anthony & Co. tc
Sept. I. fltt " , e!
INDIA SALES. «
ON Thursday the ud inft. at 10 o'clock, A. M. wilj 0
be fold at the stores of Willing* and Francis, a large Cl
quantity of INDIA GOODS, imported in the Ranges, c '
from Bengal, 'confifling of
5000 pieces Gur'rahs t ]
aoco do. Baftas, different kinds ...
3S£o do. Coffas, do. ji
430 da Humhuras, do. c ,
• 600 do. Patna hdkfs. for yomen
100 bo. Addities |
80 <20. Table cloths .
300 do. Emerties £
80 do. Punjums _ c
300 do. Fine Mulmuls
200 do. Fine Dacca hdkfs. (
100 do. worked Muslins
too do. Doreas .
too do. BookMuflin
100 do. black and colored Perfims er Taffeties t
X2OO do. Bandannoes, chocolate, red and blue
liO do. Choppa Romals
40 quarter calks of Hyson Tea of gesd qeality
40 Souchong (
The coarse goods will be soW by the bale, the taffetas
- aid bandannoes in lots to suit the purchasers, the t%as b»
the chest. The whole is entitled to the drawback,and will
be fold for approved notes, on a liberal credit.
The goods msy be fcen from the ijthina. to the day
previous to the sale.
JOHN CONNELLY, Actioneer.
September 8. d
Diftrift of Pemnfylvania: to wit :
BE it remembered, that on the sth day of August, in
the twentieth year of ihe independence of the Unit
ed States of America, Wiluam Cobbett, of the said
diftria, hath depofitcd in this office the title ef a book,
the riijht whereof he claims as proprietor, in the words
fallowing: to wit.
" The life and adventures of Peter Porcupine ; with a
" full and fair account 'of all his authoring trefactions:
" being a sure and infallible guide for all
" young men who wi{h to make a fortune by writing
" pamphlets, by peter Porcupine h ; mfeif.
" New, you lying varlets, you fliall fee how a plain
tale-vfrill put yoa.dow:v," , Shakespsare.
in conformity to theaiSt of the Congress of the United
States, entitled " an a& for the encouragement of iearn
• ins, by fecursng the copies of maps, charts and books to
tie authors and proprietors, during the times therein
mentioned. Samuel Caldweil.
Clerk of the Diftriit of Pennsylvania.
/UTjr. 8 5 «4W
NOTI C E.
THE Su'jfcriher, having been reduced in his circum
stances, by sundry misfortunes, and being thereby
fiua'ole to fitiify his juil debts, hereby gives r.oticc to his
Creditors and toall pcrfons concerned, that he intends to
arply to the General Afiem'oiy of Maryland at their next
fcfTicn to be held oa the -'■ o::('ay.of November next,
for the benefit of an ad of infolvcucy.
WiLLIAV EDMONDSON
F-afton, ift 0: the 9th month, 1796, lawnltMN
Evening School, J
A r o. 201, ARCH STREET.
S. LEWIS refpeftfully inf«rms >>is friends, and the
public, that his Evening School for A'oUNG G€NTIK mr .v
will commence on Monday, 12th September, far the
winter fcafon.
Sept. 8. '.d 4
StTcßoix SUGAR and MOLASSES. -
Landing on board th-' febooner Little Tom, Capt.
Thomas Dennett, at Race-Oreet wharf, Th
A choice parcel of St. Croix Sugar,
and a few hogsheads of Molafies.- a
For Sale by *•
Pragers and Co. *
August 410
Just Arrived,
In the Snow Boston, James Kirkpatrick, mailer from L:-
. verpool,
5000 BuftieU SALT ,-
100 Crates QTJEENS WARE ; anti
An Assortment of SHIP CHANOLEKY;
FOR SALE
On hoard, at Pme-llreet wbarf. Apply to
"James Campbell, or
George Latimer. 1
A y'' *?• ? t0
Washington Lottery. ]
THE Eighteenth and Nineteenth Days' Drawing of i
the WafiiiHgton Lottery, No. 2, are received at the office i
No. 234, Market-street, where tickets may be examihed. I
N. B. Information given whtfre tickets :n all the other
lotteries may he procured.
September 9, 1796. df rrr
. Valuable Manufactory
: Fo Ji R A L E.
ASO.\P arid CAN'DLE Ma.iufa&oiy, Handing in 2 con
venient part of the City : the work* are almolr new ;
or an enrixe new conftruftion, built of the befi'
and rcad\Ato fetto work immediately. Apply
FRAUNCES and VAN REED,
Brokers, No. 63, So*rch Ihind Street.
V/ho difount approved Notes of hsnd at a short not ice.
September 6'h, 1796. rn» w. & s. t tf.
• At a special meeting of- the Board of Di
reSors for eJlalTifbir.g ufefvl Manufactures, holden
at Paterfun, July' 8, 1796,
REEOLVED, That a fpenal meeting cf the Stock- ~
holders of the Society be called on the firlt Monday,
being the third ay 6f mt, at Patfri'oa, by «ny
of the clock of the fame day; then and ti.ere to t ,ke /
into confidcfation the propriefy of difloWing the said M
corporation, agreeably to the law +1 such c.-.fe siade and nE
provided—and the Stockholders are eameftly' rcqiieftetl
to attend the said meeting in person or by proty.
Augiifl 27 ctJothO
1 1 iin W
fOR SALE,
, A Complete Font of Brevier, *
. T7Ntirely nev , and yet unopened. The weight of this
XL font is about 312 lb. It is from'the Fquh(l;ry of {
V/iifon & Sons,Ghfgow, and will be fold at co(? & charges.
Affo for Sale, a pair of Super Roy al Cfcafts.
Enquire at the Olficc of the Gazette ef the Unitd;
States, 119 Chefaut street. 19
A very valuable Merchant Mill,
' A DISTILLERY andfundrySTONE
" 1\ QUARRIES to be let ,
I will rent my merchant Mj'l at the little Falls of Po -
towmac, iFor any term not lsli than seven, nor more than h
eleven years, from the-firft day of September ner.t. The' fe
mill-house is 42 by 40 feet, three stories high, 'ouik with c c
store, and has in it three pairs of French Burr Si >nes, two k
[. overfiiot 18 feet wat.r whe;!s, and Evans's machinery cl
e complete, with every other thing proper and nereffary for ir
carrying on the business with dispatch, and at as little ex- le
penle as possible, *11 in good order.—From the mill to my '•
landing on the Potomac river, (wherecraft, of aiiy bur
then muy deliver grain and take in'flour) it is about
yards, and from thence by water to George-Town anil
the City of Wafllington, about % njiles, and to Alexan
dria about Ii miles. This situation, aided by a fufficii-nt
capital, will command the produce of a very cXtenfivc
"back country, wh»re large quantities of whsat ami other
grain is annually made, the distance to it b?in£ from 8
to 10 miles less than to any market town up -n the navi
gation of the PotOwmac. There are on the premises a
large stone Coopers' (hap, a stone granary, and a commo
dious miller's house. At the landing'aforefaid a bridje
is now huilding nvcr the Potomac, which is in great forf 0
wardnt/s and probably will be Eniihed the ensuing fall. a
There are also on the prtmifes, a Brewery and Diftille- p
rv, built with stone, in them are three Hills, two coppers
or boilers, with'cverv necessary rrticlc, all new, and in k
good order, and fufficiently large to carry cn the Brew- o
ery and Distillery upon a very cxtenfive plan. This prop- ti
erty I will rent for the lame term of yqars. F
Upon my lauds adjoining the premises, apd along the
banks of the river, where craft may lead with ease and dis
patch, is an i rimenfe q lantity of building and founda
tion-ftones. Four quarries are now open, and as many
I*'1 *' more may be opened with ease : the ftoae taken-from these
quarries is better, and has the preference at this market,
to any other stone brought to it. I will rent these quarries
_ separately or tog ther as may best suit.
On the top of the hill, and about 200 yards from the
mill, is a stone Dwelling-house, large enough for the ac
m coir.medation of a family : also, a kitchen, dairy, smoke
house, &c. and a garden, enclosed and in cultivation, the
foiof which is equal in goodness to any in this state. I
h, will also rent this property.
ds Adjoining to the Brewery and Distillery is a Smith's
(hop, in which is a complete set of Blackfinith's tools,
1 which I will also rent, and if agreeable I will hire to the
s: tenant two negro blackfrnitns, one of them is a, complete 5
'5 workman.
"S If I rent nut the stone quarries, I will fell three crafts,
which were built for the purpose of carrying Sone : they
in will altogether bring upwards of 90 perch. Immediate '
poffefficn will be given. For terms apply to the fablcnb- \
ed er in this town.
n- The Mill, Brewery and Distillery, with their appurtcn- J
to ancej, will be deliVerad to the tenant or tenants ih good ]
in repair, and muftbe so returned, at the expiration of the j
lease sr leases,
PHILIP RICHARD FENDALL.
Alfxandiia, Aug. 16— 25 $3W
FOR SALE,
1-. COFFEE, in hhds. bbls. & bags
ii, COTTON, of Dernerara, and £ estitled to drawback
to SOAL-LEATHER )
xt Also,
tt. BOSTON BEEF, and Mould and Dipt C.VNJJLES.
Apply,to ISAAC HARVEY, J,id.
No. 5 fcuth VVat»r'ftreet.
N 8 mo. 20, - fijty
, — -- 7
J XJST A R RIVE D, from Lijbon, •
And for Sale by the Subfcribsrs,
i Lisbon Wine, m I
In pipes and quarter-caik;;
SOGO Bufhcls Lisbon Salt.
Jeffe &, P.obert Wain.
Sept. 10. •
Sa es of India Goods.
The Carjotaf tkelbip Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cal
cutta and Bengal,
CONSISTING IT
\ Large Assortment of Bengal and Madras
A COTTON and SILK GOODS.
AMONG WBICU ARE • "
A variety fine worked arid plain Mvftins,
Dorcas, Izfc. Also, 1
A. Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
fn boxes and bags—a/id HIJACK PEPPER,
For Sale by
Witlings Francis,
No. 21 Penn Street. f-j
I""'- 9 ■ L. Mei
French Goods. hcl
Received by the Sally, M'tchefl, from Havre -de- S
Grace, £
7 r r" is ]• Ladies' SHOES of all colors forts and Gie» s
t Ditto white and colored Sil's STOCKINGS
f I Ditto Fifte LAVVN
e 1 Ditto best line CAMGRIC '
!. I Ditto Ladies'bell fhanimy and Grenoble Gloves .*
r For Sale by THOMAS & JOHN KETLAND. »
Aug. 14 . , I
iiun— 1 'll i.i L
Dutch Goods, J
Received by the Pcnafylvxnia, from /hnjlerdam.
CSIJT, in I'ipcs
I.iorlaix S
' Ticklenburgs > In Bales
'' Ofnaburgs 3 «
} Stripes, in cases
Sf s }
Bcdticks, jn ditto I Be
Brktagne, - T {i
rbtilks. )
n For Sale by THOMAS & JOHN KETLAKD.
' .. . . 1 t
For Sale, By
n A Thrie story BRICK HOUSE and I.ot, in Chefnut
e t\. f:r<et, tKtween Front and Second ftraets, in which
d Messrs. James C.albraith & Co', have for many years (and
' rc'.v doj carried on ii'i^riefs.
c ' I'ofTeffion will be given in one month, or sooner.
Eot terms apply to \YILIIAI\t BELL, or
HECTOR CALBRAITH. w;
" »■ L du;
A Book-Keeper,
Clerk's place i.i wanted by a p -rfon properly quali-
M * ) whose ch. ra'fiet will be found unexception
ablel* Apply to the Printer. of
Aug. ir th<
~ ■ To be Sold,
r A vain able Lot- of Ground,
.\ T die fou - .h-eaft corner cf Matfcet and Froiit-ftreets. _
5 e-u-r. ling on Maiet-ftreet one handrtd feet, to trie
a, 1. use occupied by R.' Aitkin and Ssn, and twenty-five
,c feet on r.-ent-.treet, with the buildings thereon—The
th corner house, nov. in pcffeiCon' of Stokes, is well
,c known, having mar.y year = occupied as the mer- I
chants coffee house. It is proposed to ' .vAle the Jiound
or int» canvenient lots for Cores, for which, irom its excel
■> lent situation for fcuSnefs, it fee-n- particularly suited• or,
,y if moil agreeable to purchasers, it will be fold together. th
t . for terms apply to u
to- Israel Pleafants, or na
Charles & Joseph Pleafants. |„
; ,t Sept. 8. dtf
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
o
,-j. 5 "
* Notice is hereby Given,
°° 'f'H to an aft of Congress of the United
6 e . I Elates of Amcfica, pafled at Philadelphia, the 28th day
iTr cf Mav, 1796 ; laying duties on Carnages, for the convey.
ance'of perlons, and .repealing the former a&s sos that pur- q
le- pose l'hat there (hali be levied, colWfled and paid, upon j
all carriages for the conveyance of perlons, which (hall be
in kept by or for any person, for his 01 h<?r own use, or to let „
w- o-jt to hire, or for the conveyins of paifengcrs, the fevcral du
>p- ties and rates folio-.vtria, to wiv.
For and upon every Coach, 15 dots.
h e upon every Chariot, 12 dols.
[if. 1 upon every Post Chariot. i? jdo^s.'
upon every Chaise, t zdols.
r upon every Phaeton, with or without top, gdols
upoii every Cwachee, 9 dols.
upon other Carriages, having panne( work above,
with bknds, glailesor curtains, 9 dojs.
ies upon four wheel carriages, having trame<| pofis and
topi with steel springs, 6 dols. J
:^ie upon four wheel top Carriages, with wooden or iron C)
ac ~ ' springs or jacks. 3 dofc.
\jpon curricles with lops, 3 dols.-
upon chaises with" tops, 3 dols.
I u?on chairs with tops, 3 dols.
UfOQ sulkies with tops, 3 dols.
h's upon ojher two wheel top carriages, 3 dols.
3 ] s? upon two wheel carriages, with steel or iron springs,
the' ' '3 dols.
ete For and upon all other two wheel carriages, 2 doll. 2
upon every four wheel carriage, having framed posh
r (s and tops, and reftiug upon wooden spars, 2 dols. -
' The Collcftors of the Revenue of the firft furyev of the 2
4 Dil\ri£lof Pennsylvania, will attend daily, until the 30th day
6 of September for the purpose of receiving the duties on _
Carriages, at No. 117, in Race or Sa(Tafrai street, in the City
of Philadelphia, at the house of paniei S. Clair, Ef<j in the
cn " County of Montgomery; and at the house of Abraham Du
>od Esq. in the County of Bucks; of which all persons pof- 1
fe.fcd oi fach Carriages are desired to take notiee.
Notice is also given, \
TO all retail dealers* in Wines, and foreign distilled fpiri- j
tuous liquors, that licences will be granted to them ; one li j
cence for carrying on the bufinpfy of retailing of Wines, in a
iefs quantity, or »n less quantities'han 30 gallons —and one (
licence for carrying or the btrfmeis of retailing Spirituous li
ick in less quantities than -20 gallons, at the fame time and
at the fame places, by the offcoers legally authorised to grant
fucU l;ccncci. x
pc AVII.LI-M NICHOLS,
of the Revenue ot the firit iurvey
of the dillr i£l of Pennsylvania.
Office of InfpeOion,at J
T Ft'.Udelpku, 21 Tt July, 1796. J •
FOR SALE,
WINE, London particular Madeira, 4 yc*rs 0It3»
in pipes and hqgfbeads
Claret, genuine or, .n cases
Gin. in pipes, ftom Holland
Earthen Ware, in crates
Bj<ket Salt, in hfigfheads
Shot, Nos. 6, 7, : and 9
Ear Lead, Red and whitedry lead
Steel, Germs" ar>d R-fißa, in barrets
Anchor', cables, jenk, tjtv n»,,tarpo!in c»nvi»,
Tint»at<s —An invoice Stationery by j J
THOM iS & fOHi* KFTLANO.
July 79 ' -
' ' ..... —
C A h ij K S,
From 16 to 9 i inches, for Cite by
"Jeremiah Warder,
Julyjjr j No li north Third-llre;t-
Wm. HOLDEKMKSSK,
, No. 76 High Strftf,
HAS received, By the latcft arrivals from Europe api
the Raft Indies, a well -iffortment of Silk
Merc«ry, Linen Drapery and Hakerdafliery Gonds; which.
he will fell, Wholcfale and Retail, on the lowest terrai ;
AMONGST WHICH ARE,
Some fine Iftaia mufiins embroidered with gold and (&Vtr
Superfineßook, Jacnnct, aad JVluJmu! ditto-
Do do dp ' do Handkerchiefs
Some extra black taffetiee,!ut.firing&au<i coiared PetfiaM
Bandano Handkerchiefs
Long and fliort Nankrens
EnglHh M&ntuas of the firft quality
Pamalk table linen and napkins, very fine
Silk Hosiery, an elegant ajTortmiint
Thead and cotton do
Umbrellas —green Clk, oil'd do. and do cloth
French cambrics, very fine
lrilh Linens, do. &c. &c. _____ 14 5
Great is Truth and mufi prevail.
\ just published;
Andfor faU at No- 41 Chefnut-Jlrett by J.ORT/IROD,
An Apology for the Bible,
By R. Watson, d. d. f. h. *s.
Bi/tpp of Landaff, &c.
Being a complete refutation of Paine**
Age of Rea/tn,
the only to the Second Part.
August 30. dtf
7HIS DAT IS t ÜBLISKtp,
By H. £c P. RICE, No. 16, Secend-ftreret, and No*t
co, Market street.
A VISI T TO THE
Pliila<lelph ia Prison;
BEING an accurate ad parti u'ar Defcriptios cf the
wife and humane Administration adopt, d m every part
of that building ; containing also ah account of the gra
dual reformation and prefen; improved ilate of the Penal
I.aws Of* Pennsylvania ; with Observations cu the injus
tice and impolicy of capital puniihrnerits.
Together with an Appendix,
Containing tablev of crimes, and ouartcrly fotemcntS
of the expenditures of the Prifort, with the amount of
the'labour of the corivi&s.
By ci Gentlema?j of South-Carolina
« Lay the axe to the root and teach governments htti*
manity- It is their sanguinary which cor
rupt mankind.*' cf Man.']
i, Sept. 7. dtf ■■
I THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
~ [Price onfe quarter cf a dollar]
[j Embcllifhed with a curious Frontispiece,
- The Advantures cf a Porcupine ;
£ Or the VILLAIN UNMASKED,
r, BEING the Memoirs of a notorious Rogue lately in
the Britifll array, and ci-devant dumber of an extcnfive
LiBHT-f iugsred afibcitition in England Containing a
narrative of the pioft •itraerdinary and unexampled de
pravity of conduit perhaps ever exhibited to the*world,
in a Letter to a young gentleman in New-York.
" These things are llrange, but not more strange than
" true." __
To <wlAch is added,
A Postscript to Peter Porcupine :
Being remarks on a Pamphlet, lately publiihcd by him,
entitled, his " Life and ASventures."
d sr D4NIRL DETECTOR.
y " I'll t J' the bold fae'd villain that he lies."
!' Sold fey A. &j. G Henderson, corner of Relief and
r " Carter's Alley, back of No 77, Dock street, and by the
n diiferent booksellers city.
Sept. 7. mw&f
70,000 Pieces Nankeens,.
Of the beji quality and on reasonable terms,
FOR SALE BY
Pbiiip Nicklin Ss 5 Co.
Augufi 26. . , r
'• Lottery
id T?OR raiting fix thousand fix hundred and fixty-fevc*
1. dollar-; and fifty cents, by a dedu&ion of fifteen per
:)n centfrom the prizes, and not two blapksto a prize, viz 1
I Prize of jooo dollars is dollars 500®
1 100*1 iooo
t so a 500
$ 400 lOCO
20 100
„, 99 50 495®
3QO IS SOOO
2000 IO 50.0C0
ids s Last drawn numbers ef 1000 dollar) each,' 5000
Is. — ■
he i3j» Prizes. 44,4Jt>
la V 4018 Blanks.
on _____
''y 6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44,450
, By order of the Direaors of the Society for eftablifh
msr Ufeful Manufailures, the faperintendants of the Pat
enon Lottery have requested the Manager> to offer the
foregoing S«heme to the public, and have dire&ed them
to reiundthe money to thufe persons who have purchased 4
iri- in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
h in this Lottery.
n » rhe lottery has ailuaUy commenced drawing, and -ftiil
continue until finiihed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
; ''j may be seen at the office ot William Blackburn, No. 64
south Second street, who will gi-tfeinformation where tidk
ai,t ets may be procured.
Dated this 17th day of J\ine, 1796-.
J. N CUMMING, ■ A 7
' JACOB R. lIAS.DENBERG, Manageri.
JONATHAN RHEA. >
dtf eo •VV '
■:> India Tamboured Muslins.
A fmally handfume ajfortment cf Muslins,
viz.
Fine tamboured Malda and Santip»re Muslins, various
patterns and priccs.
Plain 6-4 Jaconet.
.Corded and Cross-barred Mufiin Shawls.
Ditto ditto 6-4 and 4-4 Dorcas.
r.'ufiin Handkerchiefs, fine and coarse.
Japan Muslins, and
A few pieces extraordinary fine Long Cloths.
FOR SALE BV
Thomas Tingey,
No. ISI, South Third-street.
Sspt- t». tu&ftf
LANDING,
From on board the Brig REBECCA, Dominic Divine,
Master, at Philip Care's Wharf, and for .Sale by the
S'ibfcriber,
London Particular Madeira WINE,
In Pipes, Hogsheads and Quarter Calks.
There are in the above parcel 10 Hhds. of CHOICE
OLD WINE, fit for immediate use.
Robert Andrews,
Sept. 6. mw&f No. 86, So. Wharves.
Philip Nicklin & Co.
HAVE FOR SALE,
\Souehong v.
Hyfijn Skin /
Your.g Hyson S- TRESH TEAS
Hyson and \
Imperial
Yellow Nankeens
» Chiaa Ware, aflbrted in Boxes and Chests '
Quicksilver
Bandanrio Handkerchiefs of excellent quality in
cfceitt
London Market MADEIRA WINE
London particular >in pipes, liogflieads* &
New-York Market J quarter calks
Teneriffe Wine in pipes and hogfkeade
Sugar Candy by the Box
Sail Canvas No. 1 a 8
Lead in sheets
3 Calks of Cutlery aflbrted
A few chests of Matichefler Geods, aftorted thick
sets, cords, striped Nankeens. &c. - ' -
3 Small packages of black fewing-filki
i Tierces Virginia Snake-root.
Nails aflbrted in calks
July 18 mw&f
LA N DING, *
r From on board the Jhip SfAR, Cast. Vanneman,
About 150,000 bottles,
From Brifto!——For Sale by
F. Coppinpr.
A ttgoft "31. eott
Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE.
No. 63 South Third street, opposite the national new Bank.
SAMUEL M FRAUNCES and JOHN VAN REED,
have entered into co-yartnerlhip, under the firm of
FRAUNCES Jc VAIJ REED, in thf business of
Conveyancers and Commiflion merchants. They buy and
fell on commiflion tyery species of flock, notes of hand,
bills of exchange, houses and lands, &c.
Monty procured on deposits, &c. &c., all kinds c'
•writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatnefsand
dispatch; accounts adjusted, and Books fettled, in the
most correct manner. Constant attendance will be given.
They solicit a share of the public favor; they are deter
mined to endeavour to deserve it.
N. B. The utmost facrecy observed.
•Samuel m. frau<jces,
JOHN VAN REED.
Philad. August 11, 1790. m&wtf
Watson's Answer to Gibbon*
JUST RECEIVED,
•Apd for sale by J. ORMROD, No. 4f, Chefnut-ftreet,
Apology for Christianity,
Ik a*ferie< of Letters, addrejjed io
Edward Gibbon, Es^.
Author of the History of the Decline and Fall ps the
Roman Empire:
By R. WATSON, d. d. f. r. s. Bifitop of LandafT.
(Price 75 cents bound )
, Watson's Answer to Paine,
To be had at the fame place.
The energies if Religion are a'wake ! Let net her
friends Jleep.
Sept. r. mw&ftf
Samuel Ricßardfit,
ESPECTfULLY informs the Gentlemen
A*- Merchants, that he his this day opined the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS QOFFEE HOUSE in the
-eity of Philadelphia;
The Subscription Room will be furnifhed with all the
daily papers published in Philadelphia, New-York, B.of
ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com
mercial cities of Europe—They will be regularly filed
and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
Tea. Coffee, Souses, Jellits, IceCreams, and a variety
el French Liquors; together with the usual refrefhments,
•will at all times be procured at the bat.. «
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
the ehoiceft of Wines, Spirituous-Liqdors, and the noli
approved Malt Liquors /rom London and other breweries.
The Larder will be fuppKed with the prime and earliest
productions of the Season.
Large and fmaU Parties, cr Cngle Gentlemen,-may be
accommodated with Breikfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hours most convenient to themselves—a cold Collation is
regularly kept lot convenleficy, the Billof Fare to be had
at ths bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furniSied, and
the utmost attention paid to eleanhnefs, and every other
requisite.
jJjT Rich aroet will behappy to refceive, and
executc the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he p!ed<-vs
himfelf that nothing on his part fhallbe wanting to. pre
serve that patronage with which he has been so dminguiih
ingly honored.
Philadelphia, April Xg. to
WANTED,
A STORE and Cellar or Compting house ar.d Cellar,
for the Wiialefale-and Dry Good bufinofs. .Enquire
at No. 119 Arch-ftrect.
for Sale at the- abareplace,
joo Boxes Window Glass, 8 by iq, 7 by 9, Szt.
500 Cream Cheeses in the belt order, imported from
Holland, and entitled to drawback. Enquire of
Peter Borger,
Aug. 16 *
;r a x ted, 1
An APPR ENTICE to tie Parting Business.
Enqaire at titis Office. Aug. 1
CQhTINUATIOK OF
Sy FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE,
By the late arrivals.
MADRID, June 4.
The number of our ships of war is encreafed to
j sixty, and it is added, that the court of Naples, re
turning to the 4ttfluence of our cabinet, will ynite
its maritime force with that of Spain, in c*fe of a
rupture with England.
June 6.
The Duke de*Crillon Mahon, Captain-Genera!
of the armies, died here lass month, at the age of
_ So. It is calculated, that he has been in- 68 dif
ferent engagements.
le It is extraordinary that th» public papers have
he not sooner announced this loss which Spain has fuf.
tained. The DuKe de Crillon, of a'l their Gene
rals, commanded the Spanim armies with ths great
est fucce£Fes in the year 17S0, againfl the English.
IE It was he who in that war took the island of Mi
norca, from England. After having served long
in France, his native coußtry, at the conclusion of
the seven years war, he pafTcd with the approbation
of "the French government into the service of Spain,
where he acquired the firft military rank. Not
having taken any part in the lad war of the Spa
niards a?ainft the French, he had a very a&ive
(hare in the peace which terminated-its-
The title of Duke of Mahon, destined to per
petuatethe remembrance of his vrftories, has pas
sed to the youngest »f his sons by a third marriage.
The two eldest sons of the Duke de Crißon, have
a title more precious in th< eyes of their country,
in were toth members of the conftitueril .afltmbly,
bothfaithfnl tothecaufe of freedom, they placed
their glotj ip the facrifices which liberty demanded
of them. Great diftin&ions awaited them, had
they wilhed to leave their country j but they -pre
ferred the honor -of remaining French- ritizens.
Even persecution, which they did not efeape, has
not weakened their conflancy. This example of
devotion to the republic, far exceeds the palriotifm
of who boast of their disinterestedness, while
the revolution has been to them a mine of gold, or
who have seta high price upon very trifling services.
ITALY, [une 30.
A French conyoy of 25 (hips are arrived on the
coast of Genoa, which have been pursued in vain
'* by the English Chips of war.
A conspiracy has baen discovered at Mantua, to
give up the city to the French. Several pieces of
c&nnon, at the part-where the French were to make
the attack, were found only charged with powder
and sand. The conspirators have been arretted,
and the French, when they appeared before that
part, were received with ball.
The strong bridge which the Freneli had thrown
, over the Po, at Placenza, is furnifhed with artil
f lery, and constantly guarded by 1500 men.
> A magnificent house is prepared at Milan for the
' lady of g«neraH3uonap*rte, who is expefled there.
* The French army before Mantua, it now eftima
r ted at .40,000 men..'
MILA'N, June 14.
General Buonaparte is, it is, said, gone to Paris,
to confer personally with the Dire&ory, and receive
new inftruftions for his future operations. He is
ejtpefted to return within a fortnight. Citizen,
Pinfot has been appointed commifTary of the French
. army in the room of Salicetti.
On the 12th three deputies set out from this city
to Pan's, to notily to the French government the
wish of the inhabitants of Milan, that the Milanese
1 and the reft of Lombardy may be changed into a
republic. >
When the deputies were about to depart, a great
multitude of people was afTembled. The president
of the munii ipality made a discourse to them, in
which he said, " that all the municipalitie», legally
affetabled, had expressed their wish that the country
might be changed into a republic.'?- One of the
deputies replied, and aflure'd the president, that he
would exei t himfelf to the utmost in the execution
of his mission, that the people might be gratified in
their wi(h for republican liberty. Another of the
deputies (Serbelloni) at his departure, took off the
key he wore as chamberlain, and declared that as
he wa4 now a freeman,, he would no longer wear
the badge of slavery.
The new French CommifTary, Pinfot, has order
ed that all persons who are indebted to the Auftit
an government, the Archduke Ferdinand, the Emi
grants or the powers at war with France, shall give
them in, tinder pain of paying double ; all feudal!
rights, exclusive rights of the chace, all armorial
bearings and liveries, are abolished. All diplomas
of nobility are to be given in, within a'week, and
burnt.. "No person is t« bear any other title, except
profefiional, than that of citizen. Inventories are
to be mJde of all the silver utensils and ornaments
in the churches.
. The conditions of the French peace with Sardi
nia are now completely executed. The cities of
Valenza and Aleffandtia, are 'p.ow in possession of
the French.
•
AUSBOURG, June 16.
Gen. Cervoni qtiitteo'Parma omhe tft Jnne
for the purpose of taking the command of the ad
vanced guard of the French army, in the room of
General Lsharpe.
■BRUSSELS, June 50.
The Anflrian army commanded by the Arch
duke Charles advances tipnn DofTeldorfF. Accord
cordmg to intelligence from the banks of she Rhine,
the enemy is only at the dittance of a league and a'
half: under tbefe circumflarces General Kltberhas
thought proper to concentrate all his forces in the
front of Kayferfwrtth and DulTeldorff, for the pur
pose of cor,netting the defence of these two places,
the attack of which must present great difficulties
to the A lift riant, so long as the French fnall remain
matters of the communication with the left bank oi
j the Rhine. Thty wot*; night and <)ay in com
pleting the estericr fortifications and the batteries.
A multitude of laborers are continually empJcved I
upon tbefe work*, J
-.V I
= Eefide*, General Kleber has ordejeJ to be .Hil
led down, about one hundred houses, irl
and other edifices, which surrounded Dufe. ;
L, and which made the-environs of that c<tv o;ie of
the molt agteeable situations in Europe. Thefc (
evils are the inevitable confeq*-'nces of the unior- ;
tunatc war carried on fa obftiuately on the two
:o banks of tfie Rhine.
te PARIS, June 27.
a " Yesterday evening at seven o'clock we attack
ed the enemy in the wood, which was their tn jlt
advantageous position ; they were forced to retreat,
a j and we took 30 prisoners. Our left wing hit ad
vanced to Bifchofrfheim, the centre is at Gffen.
f burg ; and the tight wing neat Akenheim. An
Austrian cavalier, taken ■prisoner, affur.etf us, that
re the Prince of- Conde's army made part of the Au
j- ftrian army, and that it amounted to j6,.00C rtien ;
but that 18 of no confequenee (added, the prifoirer)
j you will take them all, for they tremble like hares,
and the Austrian General requires, that they lhall
■' be placet! at the head of the army. We. hepe,
that they will fight indefpair; they will thereby
"r induce our troops to emulate them."
J n ' June ?8.
? " Prisoners continue to be made in great num.
bers. The eneiny hare been forced in their en
( trfnehments, and obliged to flyf They have set
e fire to their magazines to prevent tljeir falling isto
.our hands. We are now two leagues beyond Of
ftenberg.
f" ' J ul y 5-
; OFFICIAL DETAILS. •
, g Hauffman to the Executive Directory.
r St rafting, 6th Meffidor (June 24.) i
' " The attacks of the entrenchments of Kohl
J w ere attended with great difficulties, all of which,
however, wetc overcome by our troops,
j " Among the trait* of courage displayed by the
trooops, the most remarkable was the manner in
which the fir ft redoubt was taken ; the soldiers, as- 1
s ter having leaped into the ditch before they scaled
I the walls, ovtrwhelmed the enemy with a Ihower '
of stones. This new manoeuvre made the troops 1
e in the redoubt stoop, ;vnd the republicans immedi- I
r ately jumped upon the parapet, and took pofTef- I
lion or the redoubt. We had no artillery until we t
took some pieces from the enemy. ;
The general in chief to the executive direSorv,
e dated head.quarters at Moßcontour, 4.1 h Mef- '
„ fidor.
" CITIZEN DIRECTORS, «
9 " I announce to you, that the principal Chouang
p of the department of have made their '
e fubtpifiio'n to the laws of the republic, and that the '
r inhabitants of. the plains, following their example, 1
j lay down their arms, which they had received from v
' a hostile government.
" The chief Vendean, Beaumelle, being found
J with arms in his hand, has been killed—in canfi- c
qusnce of his death they have found four barrels
of powder and four chests of charges for cannon. '
. "1. he emigrants,. Mont jean and Grandgau, ar- 1
, rested in the house of the fornyr have been tried, '
condemned to die, and executed. A great nusn-
ber of the famedefcription, by an expeditious de-
partnre, have escaped a similar fate.
(Signed) << L. HOGHE."
LONDON, July 5. 1
, The fcherae of operations of the French Armies '
is not fufficiently understood in this Country to ena- f
ble us to form a proper estimate of its merits. Mi- !'
litary men who know \he country, however, speak 1
of it \Vith the highest commendation. They fay
it is a plan conceived with equal enterprize and c
still: it defeats every project that the Auftrians
formed for the campaign ; since if Prince Charles *
fttould detach from his army a body oT men fuffi- '
cient to Wurffifcr to attack Moreau, he v
must expose the important line of the river Main to 1
Jourdan, who would afTuredly again cross" the ''
Rhine : and even sn attack by Wnrmfer would not 0
be disastrous to Moreau, while the Ffench bavefe- u
cured the bridges for their retreat.
On the other hand, if piince Charles does not a
detach, it is likely that Morfcau will form a jundti- 3
on with Kellerman, who has hardly any thing to
oppose his pa (Tags by the Lake of Conltance, ex
cept the feebie garrisons of Landau and Bregenlz ;
and, this junflion once the Austrian armies
mult retreat fiom the Rhine to save the veiy heart P
of Germany.'
In the mean time, even if these grand projefls d
Should fail, the FVcgcb have succeeded in turning
the war into the enemy's country. The fertil? c l
fidee of the Brtfgaw not merely save their own a,
f crops, but deprive the Auftrians of their only near y
supplies, and force them tojliaw all their fubfjftence b
from the Mam and" Necker.
A r JMy ri- , I
A gentleman on i'hurfJay traling for pikes at ft
Broad Creek, near Cambridge, drew out of his t(
poc&et with his handkerchTcf a small red letter cafe
containing bank bills to the amount of 7SI. and
ten gutneas and a half in gold, which fell into the
water Some perfor.s present, or. the profpeft of a at
•regard of ten guineas, drew the hole, when several e<
pikes were caught, but no appearance of the pock- D <
ctjhook. Ihe gentleman at length took home his „«
pikes, in one of which, of about 7 pounds, on be ci
tng opened, was found the letter cafc not much in.
jurea, and its valuable contents 00 other wife affee m
ted than, in being wet Lacker. Jourr^l.
Experiments are new making in the North of 1 m
Ireland, with success, for mixing hemp and flax to- d.
get.ter in the manutafture of coatfe linens, which | tf
process vn 1! conliderably lower the price of them . j
Tb: -o.ton ManufaScry—lt is with much fatia. I fl,
fadtio,. we received the following i„tcreflin g feft c f
,be n rrr faa r i n .: hc N ° nh En g i an d J :o
e fee, (fays Dr. Aikm, in his late history of di
the country round «• that 20,c00l a
laid out for raw materials for this trade, in twenty' ac
year, magn.feed into more thltn 7 ,0c0,cc01. and «
50.000 ipindlcs into p
In confcquence of a, rcluj in the Carnarvon- pi
j fere «le<Sion, Lord Penrhyn an< l iheßiftopof L
j Batgor ore both in a high Welch ftvtr. The for- ft,
j mer was pled prof.ifely, but to no p.rpoie, the lat- fa,
ter is to undergo " Wpurgations" at lhc cl)iu ; w
I aNizei m fihroplhire. h (
) > \ t lu
Crirf. Con.—No cafe of adulter; iiac Jh»m .
, | cu in Araetica fioce the eftabliflimeut of thii-j
----public r {
f At Wincfcefter Affizes'acaufe came on lait .«
e at uhe Nili Prius Court, A'dmiral Sir Hyde Pi,
- ker v. Major bailey for trim. can.—Damages ti~
3 Plaintiff 3000K
A literary charaSer.—During the riopnlaritv of
John Wilkes,apoor felloe came t«S die Coramii .c
of Finance to demand pay for bit literary fefviees.
- His employment was to cha-H ' Wilkes ami "
I ty,'on the walls of the city
, Tax on Breaches /—A curious report 13 citcula.
- ting 1 , that the Minilter means*-, on the meeting of
- Parliament, to move " that a. licence, vaiiie two
1 guineas be taken out annually by every person wear
t :ng breeches."— If this be-true, we strongly recom.
- mend the Board of Agriculture to take into their
; mod serious eotifl deration " the cahure of tae />>
) Tret."
, " Dumolitier has lately pxsbliftred a pamphlet of'
1 136 pages, in which he recants his foimer Ur:u
, ments awd exprefies a with to return to "Trancc.
f " The sovereign people (fays fx) nas fpo&eti ; and
every Frenchmen fhouk) *riihc*r iubmiuor renounce
his country.*' He approves of the new Conitttu- ,
. tion, but laments that by it Emigrants (V,uld tor
• ever be bauifhed their country. With icipecf to
t the question of peace, France, he thinks, cannot
> procure that bleffiog, without renouncing her con
- quests. He concludes by making the -following o.
verture for his return —This piofcribed perloa
(meaning himfelf) detells factions, but loves his'
country, thai country which, whatever his enemies
may fay, ha has once saved, and will again favr,
if he fliouljl be recalled in a dangerous en lis."
1 July 13. _ '
1 Last night we received some Dutch papers of a*
late a date as the 3d iiift.
It appears now to be the wife of the Batarian
1 National Convention, to put all the Dutch burgh*
• ers into requilitiot). «
As our papers come down as low as the 3d inft.
■ we think we can fafely fay, :hat no important ape- !
1 ration had taken place on thef Lower Rhine b< ore
the tft. The reports of the Archduke havi gf.J.
len back towards Mentz and Franckfcrt, are ra.
ther circulated, we believe, in consequence of any
authentic information. We still think that Ihe
Auftrians will attempt to crofg the Rhine below
Coblentz, and take, DuflTeldorf. 3y putting the
Dutch burghers in requisition, we fufpeft that the
French feel themselves weak on the Lower Rhine.
Letters to his Majelly, and the Royal
were received by the last-West mail, f.om hit
Royal Highness Prince Edward, whu is with hi»
regiment on duly, and will not return home til) thje
war is„oncluded, when he wtll be called up o the
Hotife of Peers as Duke of Cumberland. Prince
Errtell, his brother, will about the fame lime be
created Duke of Lancalier.
I Ire mailer and wardens of the company of ba
kers, yelterday waited upon the Eord Mayor to set
the aflize of bread, on the return of
'■ arket, made by the meal weigbeis. Wheat ha 3
fallen 7/4 the quarter, yet flour was continued to
befold at 645. perf.ick. His Lordftiip, after com
menting on this circutnflance, dire&ed the price of
bread to be 10 1-4 the quarter lour, to ;akj pia-.c.
to-morrow. ' '
A fetter from Genoa, of the 2id June, flstes,
that the French had formally taken po/Teflion of the
imperial Fiefs in the name as the French Repub
lic, and had exacted a.i oath of fidelity from the
inhabitants.
Several letters from Venice (late, that after alon£
conference between the French Venetian commit
fariei, the Venetian Senate has come to a detertni
nation of. paying five millions of duco* to the
i rench, and of forniicg an army of 25,000 Scls
vonians add Dalmatians, and of equipping a flee',
in order to aft in concert with the French troops,
for tfce purpose of despoiling the house of Au'tna
of 1 rielte, Fiume, and ihi Frioul, which will be
united to the territori-esof the Venetian Republic.
i he three united divisions ot Lefebvre, Collaud,
anti Grenier, pafled the Sieg on the morning of th*
30th, and the patroles bud pufned oil as fa" as Uic
roth.
NORFOLK, September 3.
Captain Southwick, of'the feho.oner
Polly, arrived here yeiterday from Port 3U-Prince»
in j 6 days, informs, that flour fold as low as.ll
dollars; pork and beef at 152 nd j6Jal!ars per
barrel, ai»d every other kind of prov;0o»5 cquaMy
cheap : that the Brjtifh troops were very sickly,
and 100 dying in the 54 hours. A vessel from N>.
York had left her captain and the whole of ihe crew
by the contagion ; andevety vessel were Joiir.gfome
o-. their crew.—That the French privateers conti
nue their depreda'/one on our trade, by ft iaing our
shipping, and carrying them into Leogane, where
they are certain of being condemned.
BALTIMORE; September 8.
In contemplating the present ft ate of Spain, an
attentive observer will.discover (trong reafoss for
concluding that a complete and total revolution,
political, moral, and foetal, in that country, is at
no great dillince. 7he ascendancy of French prin
ciples is evident, by the terms qf the peace conclud
ed with the republic, by thetreatment whichFrensh
men expetienc-e in Spain, and by the warlike pre.
parations making in every part of the Spar.ifh do,
minions :'For the acquilitior»of an iuflucnccfn pre
dominant, the French are principally indebted to
the democratic disposition of the Spamfh Minift^r —
Fhe Prince of Peace!— For what purpose that in.
fluence will be employed, it is not difficult to ton
jefture 'Ihe French will (ivenuoufly endeavour
to diftufe the principles of demociacy ; and
poisoned the minds of the people, |hey will propose
a declaration of war against England ; which, if
adopted, will cncreafe the smbarjafTinent of the
ct'urt, so as to rendrr a closer connexion with
i'rsuce a matter rtf necefiity, vhile it will afFoid i
p>ea 10 the diflaffedied fir/1 to declaim ayairil tl'<
government, aod afterwards to deflroy it.~ Irfn-m, |
1 the fame game which was played by the Bnfli.ti.* I
taction in frame, in the years 179s and 179:,
will be attempted to be renewed in Spain by tMf 1
iuccelForj; a „d, if yroewed, 1#
'■6 t:\m- cff!*it- —tfiii annihilation of the raonS'-chy.
i'hat a material change has been already produced
in themindsof the Spaniards appear* ccrtain, from
the new regulaiio. s adopted for the fupprcfiion of
convents ; a circumltance which, to any man who
knows the geniu* and chara&er of the nation, will,
probacy, be deemed dccifive.
The present fafhion arfiong the ladies in London,
is f id to be a glaring violation of the decorous
prccept of the fdiyrift,
" Let not cach beauty every where be fpy'd,
" Where half the (kill is decently to hide."
The Montezuma, captain Chafe, failed froth
London four days before the Charleltc*i, but put
into Beachy Head, which they left the fame day
io company,. *
Mr Wignellof the Philadelph a and Baltimore
Theatres, arrived in London the day the Chariefton
failed.
11 the Montezuma came the following palTen
gers:
Mr. R. H. Wilcocks, of Philadelphia,
M'mfieur Fonier,
Mr. James Wi!fon,.of Alexandria, and
Mr. W. Y. Lewis, of" this town.
The Montezuma failed in company with the fol
lowing vefTels;
Ships Charleston, for Baltimore ; Henry, Stan
ton, for Alexandria ; Indian Citi f, Skinner, for
Madeird and the East Indies} Tamany, Ward, of
New York, for Liverpool—Btig Harmony,
for Savannah.
July 12, below Gravefend, spoke (hip William
Penn, captain Jofiah, of and from Philadelphia,
bound to London.
July 14, spoke (hip Friendftiip of N'-wYork,
Jafi from Savam ah, inside the Downs, for London.
The (hip Friendship, raptatn Smith, was to
leave London on the 20th July, for Baltimore.
1 ■ 1111 1 1 I ' "Ml
Philadelphia
JvIONPAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 11, 1796.
Married, on Thursday hft, at New-Castle, Mr.
"WiLLrAH Clav to M'fr Sarah M'Wjlliam.
• f
oil Saturday evening last, by the Rev. Dr.
Rogers. Mr Stephen C. Ustick, printer, to Miss Re
becca Shields, daughter of the late Capt. Jobs Shields
of this chy.
£xtra<£l of 3 lettei frop Bordeaux, July s—received5 —received
by Capt. Boys.
" The French tarry all befoi* tbem in Italy and oij
the Khine. The Citizen Pope has decreed that all the
plate not immediately rie. tflary for the worfllip of the
Supreme Being, may be employed in carrying on the
holy war against the French. So you may fee he quakes
" violently, or he wohld not make use of such a re
source.
" Flour a drug—7 1-1 to S dollars per barrel—and
?tl kinds of provision in proportion."
Jlxtraft of a letter 3ated Bourdeaux, July 12. f
" Numerous corps oftroops arecontinually march
ing froi* La' Vendee to Italy. Buonaparte's army
will, soon metr ftronff. The left wing
of that army, commanded by General Maffcna, had
on the ift inft. already pushed 20 leagues into Ty
rol, and Was marching against Brixen and Lientz.
A column of the army of the Alps is advancing a
longjthe bants of the Inn, against Infpi uck, the
capital of Tyrol, and.we eXpect that by this time
the army of Italy, and that of the Rhine and Mo
felle will have effedied their jnnftiou on the frontiers
of Bavaria. The corps of 60. O Neapolitan hnrfe,
who had escaped with the Auftrisnt after the battle
•of Borghetto, have furr'endered to the republicans,
and were sent to Bre/cia, Loctf, and Cremona.—
Their horses, faddles< &c. were delivered up to the
Republirans agreeably to treaty. It is also gene
rally believed that an article of our treaty with Na
ples ft ipulates, that the king (hall lend us five (hips
of the line and eight frigates.
" The fuccrfles of our armies in Germany atjd I
taly are so decisive, that the Emperor will soon
lhare.ihe fatr of the kisg of Sardinia. It isexpeft
ed that England will at last pay the price of all the
countries which the French Republic may agree t»
reftoretothe Pope, the Emperor and the German
Princes st the comlufion of a general peace.
" There is plenty of all kinds of provisions in
France ; and the tlop of this year is richer yet than
that of last year."
iCR THE GAZETTE Of THE UNITED STATES.
WE often read in yotir paper, and scarcely in
any other printed in the city, of persons amongst
us who seek to degrade the American name and
character. and of persons who seek to involve us
in war, conjured up, I suppose, like hobgoblins in
terrorum The fact is, the reign of terror is past,
and these things will probably soon grow entirely
put of use by the abuse made of them.
Mr. Maclay's proposition explains the meaning
of the oppofers of the treaty; for it was unques
tionably brought forth and intended to be relied
upon by thtm. By it will be seen, that those
charged with seeking war, would in fa&, for peace
- fake, have probably vo'ed for the appropriation,
had the (late of our eomrcerce warranted it 5 but
• with daily and aggravated impediments and spolia
tions before tfctir eyes, they were desirous to fuj
, fend appropriations until fatisfa&ion for pad, and
fecuri'ties against future injuries was obtained.
Mr. Dearborn, in fact, made even a motion to
agtee to the appropriations conditicnally, with a
reliance on the executive interference in behalf of
our commerce. Even this was denied, and th«n
it was when the vote was forced unconditionally on
the members—that many voted against jt who
might have voted for it, had the proposed condi
tion of the vote been agreed to. A reference to
the debates, as'publifhed by Mr. Bache, will fully
prove ami explain this. As to the (hameful wffte
of time and public money iu cife lilting im
p'ortancp of the occasion certainly warranted Jhe
btdligation it met with, and impartial poftcfity j
will judge cf the force and wildc ni cf ' the argus
rtients adduced os en aef fide j but if too milch oub>
lie time hath be»i»-already fpetit about it, it Wf»uld t
perhaps be best, Mr. Fenno, not to' increaftr that f
evil by extending it. I
A. B. c
This is not the firft Instance, in which the 3
politeness and urbanity of this writer has fed him I
to stigmatize the Gazette of the United States, «
when he has seen proper to make it t!je vehicle of t
his remarks to the public. It may be true that this v
Gazette is aimoft the only one in this Gity, (and it '
is an honorable peculiarity) which contains obfer
various similar to those A. B. objects to—lt is not
however diilingtiifhcd for circulating those detesta
ble profluftions in which it is attempted to 1 degrade 1
f.* the American name and charafler" below those 1
of any other nation which ever ex'tt<"d. Nor is it
distinguished by a pretended Veneration for out re- (
publican government, and at the fame time reviling ,f
the majority #f the people. It is not diftinguifiled
by abufe'of the Government for not pursuing meat
fores that would involve the country in war, and at
the fame time deprecating war as the greatest of e
evils. What is the honorable chsratferiftic of (
other paper*printed in the city.—l» the Philadel- 1
phia Gazette of Friday, there ic an article copied t
from the Kentucky Gazette, (which originally ap f
peaied in an paper,) and is as follows.—„ c
" LEXiNCTftN, Aliguft 6.
" If the French should fuccee*! in their negoci
ation with Spain, and obtain poffeflion »f Louisia
na, we shall be bound by a much stronger tie of in
terelt to observe a good undcrftanding with her go
vernment. The proximity of Gtuation will give
them greater opportunity of annoying us, fliould a
continued couife of unfriendly condudl towards
them render fifch a vefolution necelTary.—Every '
American should be filled with corfufion at rtflee
ting on our deportment to this nation to whom we '
owe so much. Wliilft on the one hand,we have- '
meanly crouphed to Britain whenever (he pleased to '
adopt the stile of a braggadocia, we have behaved
to France.with an infalence aimoft incredibl*. It
is in vain that we seek for"tTie motives of this con
duct ; theyare hidden beyond the ken of the com
mon eye. Reason-, gratitude, justice, all oppose it:
the frie idfhip displayed by Britain could not allure
us 1 for (he has treated us in a manner so base that
the pirates of Algiers themfclves would blush to
avow ptaflices so contrary to the laws of nature and
nations. And yet we have tamely home it all !
" How natural-was the warm enthufiaitic ex- 1
preflions of Genet, when a manly indignation led
him to cryout, " if your ftllow-citizeYii have been
deceived, if you are not in a condition to maintain ]
the sovereignty iff the people, speak : we have 1
guaranteed ir when slaves ; Vfe know how to render I
it rt'fpe&able, having become free." If this lan- 1
guage was applicable when it was used, how mu*h
more so is it new.—Truly it appears that it is Wat
ter, it is Milk which creeps thtoiigh the veins of »
Americans." [Kentucky Gaz.J 1
That the abore is a falfe reprefentatron, so far as c
ij refpedls the Government' of the United States, '
and the people of this country, no one will deny— 1
Is it not then an infamous attempt to degrade the
American name and character ? And tlio' this re
mavk may be confined to this Gazette only, it dc.cs
not follow, that the greater jufiice is done to the
people of the Unitrd StA«'s, by not publrlhing si- -
milar remarks in any other paper of the city. It
is hoped A. B. will feel the propriety ot taking his
own hint at the conclufiori of his effsy. It v.ill
certainly be advantageous to the public if they
should be influenced by it or. a future occasion.
E.
BY THIS DAY'S MAIL.
NEWBURYPORT, September 6.
STATE of HEALTH,
Monday Evening, September _j, *796.
Since our last publication-os the 3d inft. three per
sons only have died ot a malignant fever, and one
child ot a quincy—none have been tsker. lick with the •
above fever since last Thursday, and three only are
now fitk, and we hav« great real'on to hope from the
present appearances to be able to give a more favoura- '
blc account of the disorder.
By the Committee of Health,
Captain Lunt, arrived yesterday in 13 .days from
Gnidaloupe, informs, that the plague had broke out 1
3t St. Thomas's, which carries off numbers daily.
SALEM, (Mass) September 6.
By the best accounts we can obtain refpefling the '
fever at Npwhury Port, it appears th t Capt, Mul- :'
berry arrived at that port from Jamaica, the 31ft of j
May, and loft two of his men on his homeward i I
passage, by the fever prevalent in Jamaica. On the
Ift of June he discharged his cargo, which was rum, (
at a wharf near to a place in which the offals of fifh, j ;
in a highly putrid state, had been laid for the pur
pose of manure. On the 15th of June, the health i
Committee begun the lift of deaths from the fever, .
which has prevailed only ; upon this spot. It has
continued in this place to the present time, apd 26
pfrfons have died, either upon this spot, of after
having been refideftt upon it—-15 of each sex, of'
the following ages, none below 12 years of age, 6
between 12 and 20 years, 6 between 26 and 30, 5
between.' 30 and 40, 4 between 40 and 50, 1 be
tween 50 and 60, and 4 between 60 and 70. The
physicians have not yet reported to the public the
charafler arid treatment of the fever, Do&. Swett :
died on the 16th of August, with the symptoms of
the yellrfw fever after 4 days illness. He had no
success while he attended the fever. By some, the
fever has been called the jail, and by others the yel
low' fever. The patients are seized with delirium, <
with vomiting, and with drowfinefg. The Do&or t
was seized witlvvotijiting, and inftantlv pronounced 1
upon his owji fate. Upon inquiry from the Health '
Committee, and from reports of the physicians I
inhabitants, it is generally attributed to the putrid
fifh, which has not been removed, but coverpd up. I
It isfaidno persons have fuffered who had connec
j ".ions with the vessel, if thev have net lived Or eon
| tifiUeirear the putrid ftlh. " »
' ' ...
The fever lias not been so (uglily contapious aa
to have been conveyed from this spot. The per- t!
tons who have fur various purpofesattended the lick,
have all escaped. Only $ were reported 00 Satur- C
day a/ fickby the Health Ccramittee. Great con- I
Iternation has been difcovertd by the i:,«abitants ; f
and many have removed. Water ftrect has been b
(hat Up, but the fever certainly haunts the spot in • 1.
which the filth was laid, and is in 110 other part os l o
the town. The late tains give usreafon to hope, k
with, other ci'rcumftam es, that it will foot) cease.-— tl
Newburyport in all other re'iptfts is very healthy, «
■BOSTON, September 7. *
Accounts from L'fboo mention the artival there j,
of a Brazil fleet of 80 fail ; several of whom were f s
Indiamen. E v
By Capt. Plummer, from Cette, Barcelona and ! a ,
Gibraltar, we have much the la;eft'news from the
4 sooth of Europe.
At Barcelona, July if, the following was given 0
by a gentleman as the current news of the place.
" We had an account yesterday, that an event,
expefteJ For so one time pail, had at length taken ®
place, namely, the occupation of Leghorn by the
French. About Joo irten, chiefly cavalry, having p
come to Piftoya, and on thy road towards Sienna, 0
struck down suddenly on the morning of the 27th
of June, and tookpoffeffion of Leghorn, evident
ly with the expectation of furpiifing the Englifli, ®
and plutdering their property. Aa the Englifli
were, hewever, appriled of their visit, every thing
moveable was carried off, even to the last Jpar or
coil of r«pe, belonging to the fguadron, a swell as
the <ffets and furniture of Twenty
three fqtare rigged veflels, with fixteeh Tartans, 1
! laden, f;iled out of the harbor the morning that
tire enenly entered the town. The news that we
hsVe froti Genoa, in five days, confirm the defeat "
and daughter of the French at Chiufa, and give n
_ reason toexpert, that the Ailltrians may have forced
them by this time to rcCrdfs the Po." l<
Gibraltar, war with Spain was talked of. P
Off Cndiz gafleij through the English fl:et cruizing '
for Richery. 6
It is no ill e«mp]iment On the federalifm of the
western dillrifti That among the electioneering ar- »
tides* are as many as half a dozen cel-tificateS and f
depositions on oath, all certifying and depofirfg to
the federalifm of General Skinnei ; who is a can- 1
didate. His cordial acquiescence in the meafureg of
th? memorialists of this town, is coniidered as a a
powerful recommendation.
CAPT. BARNEY'S SQUADRON.
Capt. Freeman arrived on Monday, from St. ?
Bartholomew*, inForifisfthat on Jill Aug. lat. 38, j
12, long. 70, 30, he fell in with an Eriglifh 54 gun
(liip, part of Admiral Murray's squadron, having a
French 44 gut) ship in tow ; who informed (hat the j
French vefTel sV;.s part of Capt. Barney's squadron,
that they had three days before ; at' which j
time they parted from Admital Murray, and lef
the red in the foferioon, in pursuit of the remain ,
derof Capt, Barney's squadron ; and that about 8 j
o clock, P, M. they hesid a heavy 1 annonade, from i
which they supposed Admiral Murray and Capt. j
Barntfy h,Sd met, and weve giving battle.
Flii.s Hafltet Derby, Esq. of Salem, has late!; ,
mndo a liberal donation to the tnufupm of Dsrt
inouth College. Amo l g- other, valuable and rare
■ curiosities he has preferred the JJ.bra, an Africa. 1
aiiinial, a valuable acquisition to the cuiiotis in na f
ttirai hiifory, befi'des.fturty other rai itiesifrom Alia,
rHiXthe Weft coast of America. -i—it is a happy
circumstance, tbat commerce may become the road 1
(o pliiloioptiy as well as wealth ; and tlut ihofe who.
■are increasing the refpe&ability of their country Ly »
enlarging its commercial intcrefts, have inclination |
and faite to incre»fe the interdt of science at home f
GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STAVES MARINE UST ,
~— : I
PHILADELPHIA, Seftcmtcr ta. j
ARRIVED,
Ship Amity, Bordeaux 54 *
Prudence, Miller, Hull 70
"Deborah, Palmer, Londonderry 70 '
" Brig Friendship, Cl:.»ke, Bremert 75 '
Bet fey, Alibot, Lisbon 63
Schooner Olive, Drinkwatet, Portland 10 I
Gipfey, BtowH, N.Carolina 12 1
; Sk>op Harriet, Navarro, New Yoik 7 ' t
Nancy, Barker, Nrntucket jo
liunteC, Lock wood, N. Carolina 14 J
The (hip Dominick Terry, Dehart, fioaj Ja j
tnaica, .was seen aground on the Pea Patch yeller (
;<lay morning. J
r ; The brig Partition, capt, Suter with paSeigers (
[ , from Ireland, is arrived at New-Callle.
: The fhip'Kit.ty, Captain Weft-, arid brig Betsey, t
1 capt. White, are m rived at the isle of Fran-e. The 1
* account is brought bv,a vessel arrived «t Salem.
Capt. Clarke from Bremen On the 43d July, spoke
; Clip Venut of Baltimore, SciUy bearing E. N. E. dift.
f ,17 leagues—all well. ,?Oth, lat. 48, 30, long. 17, •
, spoke ship Tryal of New-Bedford, out 30 days—ail
■ v ell. August 28, lat. 43, long. 54, 40, ipoke barque <
William, frcm Salem to Copenhagen, out 5 days. The •
captain mdifpofed for several days before.
j jirri<ved tit the Fort. <
BrijJ Brahdywine Miller, Culver, St. Croix '
Elizabeth, I'ullerton, Jan.aica
George, Glen, do.
Sally, Jackson, Cape-Francois
Two Sifters, Eag'efon, do.
SchK Gen. Peale do.
Salem, September 6.
Capt. C'.oiitman, lately ar.iived at Marblehead» ,
spoke on the Grand Banks, cap{. Triage, 16 days
, out from Boston—also June g, cap<. Thomas Ma
■ crea botlnd for Liverpool. Aug. 27, lat. 42 ( 39 |
' on K< 74' 4°' '' ie ft'p Deborah, capt. Robert
Palmer, from Londonderry with 800 pafiengers on
board, all well.
Aug. 3, lat. 43, 42, long. 50, Was spoke the
schooner Gofham, Woodbefty, from Pcteifburg,
Ruflia, obt 45 dajs, bound for Cspe Ann.
Capt. Batr in the Neptuue, of this ptirt/wa» at
Lisbon, 64 Bays ago.
<S
-
X v -«»
Ajig. 25, lat. 42, i4,!otip. 57, 30-, tfw ff'-k-,.
the brig Sally, Smith, f rom Salem, for Boilrde x.
Yefterdai morning arrived here, the fotw. ' i!,
C:fJ>t. Daniel Rnpes, in 27 days from St. P: rres.
Left theie capts Ketit aKtl Giee'n, of Boft ■■ ; th;
LhrS. Sukey, Sftvth, and Union, Go '!hn , f
Newburypcytthe Charlotte, F trem n, «( !" rt*
land, and a bri belonging H> Mr. N. Kiel at 'fotij
los ditto. Caps. S. ln.rrrfoii, 01 Saltm, 1 in tlt u
key and Beifey/.rapt. Wallace, of 801 l n, ar \ed
the day eapt. R. failed. C p'' Baker cf iyfwich»
was 'o fail the day afte* c3pi. Ropes.
Capt. John Brown, of the f hr. D dpbin, r>f •f•
port, and'capt. Win. Henry, ol the (hi;/ V Ute ris of
New York, were at St. Fietres, Wai ing> for a pas
sage to go over to St. Lucia, to take charge of heir
velfcls, being. acquitted by the Court of Adttiira'tf
at Dominica, and paying chaigcsi.
j The br'g Boone,-of New-York, flopped the 2 lit
.of April by the B itifh La Pi,que, ar the
entrance of the rivtr I* tncrara was not yet i: helled.
The Capt. was at St. Ficrres, and the' v.'ffel at £},c
---tnerara.
> jDiJII ia of Satem nr<( jScvcr/y.
ARRiVED.
Ship Belifarius, Crowinfbield, Me oTFratttif
Biig Salciii, Qher, Bilbo*
Six Biothetj, Seldonj Philadelphia
Schr. Trial, Ropes, Ma>tiniquf
Polly, DevtreuK, Guadaloupe
Beifey, Bickford> Notth-Carojina.
BostojJ, Septem'-.er 2.
Arrived, sloop John, Capt. Lewisr St. Th >mas's
JO days. Lert theie schooner Harriot,
' Alexandria j Hannah, Califf, Norfolk"; Beifey,
j Tailor, Baltimore j Irtduftry» RufTel, Saletji,
to the leeward, also, 12 other American yefTels,
nsmes ui k owm Lat. 30, long. 70, 25, spoke
fchr. Be fey and Kitty, fuom Philadelphia, bound
to the Mole, ig days out, all well. American
product very low, and Wfli-lndia produce high*
The £ngii(h Beet is laying up at Port' Royal Bay>
Martinique.
Brig Haiinah, Capt. Lord, 84 dayt ft'fit St.
Vincent. Left there Capt/Hubbard, and Capt.
Hill in a brig, both of Salem.
Brig John, Wadlworth, 6b days rfort* Lifconj
spoke nothing. Left thert (hips> Alfred,
Bolton } Thofflaß Pinckney, Folfotti, do ; Ales*
ander, Sheffield, do 5 Union, Defhell, Salilfcury ;
RuHia, Tfcom|fon, Plovidpr.ce M.flVcliufettJj
Rofleter, do; Betsey, Wiilis, New-Y>'k 5 inde*
pendence, Caihcart, do. Liberty, Gardner, do.
Brigs Beifey, Abbott, Philadelphia 5 Neptune,
Barr, Salem
LJI of VeJJsh, left at St. Uhu
Ships Minerva, Eldridge ; Leonard, j
Little Mary, Benner, Philadelphia ; Andrew, Ma»
liitja 5 Sa;dli, Dagget $ Bri s Hope, Wtmen j
Kitty, Rider } Iris, Root, New York ; Expert:
'ncn't, Clarke, Philadelphia ; Active, Rdbertfoii,
10. Maiy, Rowland ; Jones, Portland; Adiona,
Piefcott ; D< lphin, Ripley, Bolton. ; Si hrs. John
and. Mary, RufTel j Beifey, Stoddard • Merrnaid.
Homer.
Schr. Cyntlilt, Cyrtis, HlfpanJola, 25 days ;it
is.very fukly tnere.
Schr. Lucy, Capt. Eeatley, 30daysfiD?n Gjia*
lalonpe, theie S hooner Poily, Capt. Dc#
verick of Salem ; Capt. Lindfey of Welfs, in a
f. ha.oner ; also a flopp belonging to Rhode
and Capt. Cunningham, in a sloop of Bsiton.
Schooner Isabella, Jones, plavannah, io days;-*.
Spt ke nothing;
Brig Theti6, Baker, 22 days ftom Tobago.- Left
h*re, Sthr. — , Homer, of Boston, also
.Bowyer, in a fioop, who was feifced the day be
fore Capt. B. failed, for what rea/on he could
not learrJ.
Schr. Mary, Capt. Hall, |o days from Got.
tenburgh. Sailed in company with .capt. E'fter
hrooks, in. the ?ihr. Rapger. Left there .brig
Hannah, Philips, of Boston 5 Eiifca,
Capt. Burton of New-Yorfe.
September 4'. Anived (hip Thomas and Sarafl»
Capt. Nichols, 66 days from S-i Petcrfburgh.
Spoke in lat. 47, long.' 43, (hip Jason, fro n New
, York, 14 days out, bound to Hamburgh. The
vessels palled EUitieur/rom fuly I to ip„
Names Captains if from to
, HiberSia, Eliiat, Salem, Pet rffcuig, Saltnj,
Wafhingtotl Bailey, Marblehead, do. L:fkon
Sonhiaj Willing, Baltimore, Hamburgh, Pe(ei(b .rg
Belfer, Salem Peicifbuig Saleov
Union, Johnson, Baiunsore, do. Amlt'idam
Eleonora, Seward, Kollon, Jo. Londsni
Swallow, .MCornick, do. do. Lilbo.t
Marv, * G. Mary, N-Yorky dn.- New Vork
Charlrftbwp, Oliver, Boston, dd. B iloil
Bvfleld. ParloHj, Boston, tondon, Pc r ifourg
[In the Charleftown, i; John" Miller KySsztt,
Cooful at Huilia 00 his p:lTa e home J
Ship Union, Jones, 57 days from Got
teabtitgi Spoke brig Two Friends, froip Ham
burg for Boston, 42 days oiit. >-
sfrrivals at Bofion—Scptemler 7.
Ships Thomas & Sarah, Nichols, Rujlia ; Union r
Jones, Gottenburg j tu'. y, Wildes, Haml.urgh ;
I Barbara, Holland, Cape-Francois ; Minefva, Cults,
Cadiz ; Sally, Lambertj Bourdeatix j brig Almi
■*a, Wait, of Poitland frorn Hamburgh ; fchooneri
Rebecca, Nicholfon, Cape Francois ; Mary, Lin.
colhj Detnerara ; Dehonair, Plummcr, Gibraltar ;
: Charlotte, Freeman, St. Birtholemews.
Arrivals at New-Tort—September 10.
Ship Jay, Dyre, Liverpool, 74 days.
Capt. Dyre, of the (hip Jay, fiom Liyerpol, 16th
July, spoke (hip James, Conklin, of New York;
23 days out, lat. 47, 4:, Ibng. tQ. 1
29, spoke the brig Ceres, of New-York
j bound to Cork, 5 days out, *ety leaky, lat. 40,
16, long. 62.
Sept. 4, spoke the fhtp John, from Philadelphia
; bound to H.imburgh, lat. 64, long. 40.
■ 1 -.1 —
To be disposed of,
THF. time <if a healthy WOMAN",
has between four and five years Jo serve:
can be r ecommcuded for her fofcricty and honesty; Foi 1
1 particulars enquire at Ne. 132, Chefnut-flreet;
Jiuguft 3.. v V ; &FO:IMAfION ! •
'•*.'t • ''lii" of the drawing of tbc WASHINGTON dal
-' ' i'Er.V', attfttOflic. f c »'
■ ' 'No. 1+ 7 Chefnutjr.-et, fafd'll
\ • vri J'ourth arid fifth ftrests. Also, where Tickets . (
' . • '-e-hjid. Sept. 9. eo
The Eighteenth and Nineteenth Days drawing is purc j,
' • : -—. firft it
Oity ct Waihingtoti.
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, \ T o.II,
FOR THE WPROVf.ME.tiT OF THE <■
FEDERAL CITY.
A magimicent >20,000 dollars, &> 000
dweiling-houi'e, ) 30,000, ire J ' '
s ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 40,009 Schtc,
X ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000 ,
1 ditto 10,000 & calh 10,000 10,000 J
1 ditto 5,000 fit cash, 5,000 10,000. °J
•i ditto 5,000 & cafi; 5,000 10,000 th.
r tafis prize of 10,000 ■==
2 do. 5, "000 each,are . ■ 10,000
10 do. 1,006 - - 10,000
so d*i. 50a - - 10,000
00 do. roo - - 10,000
200 do. 50 • • 10,000
4co do. 25 » ■ io,ooo
1,000 do. to • i*<ooo j
15,000-cjo. id - *50,000
i&>739 Prize?.
35,261 Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollaft, 400,000
N. B. To favour those "who tnay tike a quanuty ot
Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars Will be tlie j.aSt drawn
ticket, and the 10,003 the last but one :
Ar.d approved notes, feciiring payment ineittier nron*y
or pri2es, in ten days alter drawing, will b'tf received foi
any number not less than JO tickets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of' the pri
vate buildings to be ereSed in the City of Waihingtoti—-
Two beautiful designs are already feleifled for the entire
fronts on two of the public squares ; from these prawings 3
itispropofed toerccl twfl centreand fourcomer buildings, A
as soon as pollible afteiithis lottery is fold, and to convey
them, when complelfc, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery.
A nett deduction of five per cent, will'be made to defray
the neteffary expenses of printing, &c. and the surplus 2
will be made a part of the fund intended for the National
University, to be erecled withinthe city of Vafhington.
* The Drawing Will commence as soon as the tickets are
fold off.—The money prizes will be payable ir. thirty days
ifter it is finifhsd ; and any priEes for which fortunate
numbers aie not produced within twelve months after the
drawing is closed, are to be considered as given towards
the funi for the University ; it being determined to fettle
the whole bufinefs'in a ySar from the ending of the draw
ing, and to take up the bonds given as fe&irity.
The real fe'curit>es given for the payment of the Prizes,
' ire held by the President arid two Direitors of the Bank
of Columbia, and ass valued at more than half the a
mount ot the lottery.
The twenty four gerltlem£n who by appolntnient 0.
the late Commiflioners aflifted in'the management of the
Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake this arduous talk
3 fecotid time on behalf of the public ; a fufficient num
ter of these having kindly accepted, it the
friends to a National University and the other federal ob
je<3s may continue to favor the design.
By accounts received from the different pat'ts of the
Continent as well as from Europe, where the' tickets
have been sent for sale, the public ape assured that the
drawing will speedily commence, and that the carcand
caution unavoidably neceffiry to insure a fate disposal of ;
th« tickets, has rendered the lhor- fufpetrtion indispensable.
SAMUEL BLODCET.
§ Tickets may b<! had at the Bank of Columbia ; o
Tames Weft &Co. Baltimore ; of Peter Gilman, Boston
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells
" Cooper's Ferry. co
H RANDY,
OF lft and 4th proof, and equal in quality to tfcat import
ed fiom France, may be h«d of the fubferiber at his Difiil
lery, No. 115, Story or New-flreet between Third •artd
Fou'th-ftreets, where the public, upon application, may
judge for themselves, and will find it an objcfl well worth
thfir attention.
RIIM and GIN in any quantity, for exportation or home
confumptioD, and of fupeiior quality—by
Thomas Cave.
P. S RYE, MVIT, BARLEY, and MEL ASSES, will
be purchased, or taken in exchange for spirits, upon appli
cation as ahove. Also any quantity of Claret or other wine
fit for diftillition.
luguft 29 ti, 17c6- M4W
Dissolution of Partneriliip.
'X'HE Partncrfhip between ROBERT ANDREWS and
DAVID MF.REt)lTH,under the firm of ANDREWS
and MEREDITH, being diflolved. A|l perfors who are
■indebted to, or who hive claims against the laid house, are
requtflled to apply for settlement to the fubferiber.
ROBERT ANDREWS,
No. 86, So. Wharves.
Sept- 6» 1 d tf
Lands oi the United States
Tr-"'itry Department, Aufcujl 3, 1796.
Public Notice is hereby Givetl,
XN purfuance'of an ait of Congress, puffed on tke 18th
day of May, i 794, entitled " An a<ft providing " for
thefiK- of the lands of the United States,'ia the Territo
-• sj'rth weft of the river Ohio, and above the mmith of
Kentucky river,'-' that the fcAions or lots of land descri
bed in the annexed schedule, lying id the seven ranges of I
triwnihips, which were furweyed in pursuance of an ordi- |
nance of Congrefs,paifed on the twentieth day of May, j
in the year one tkoufand seven hundred and eighty-five,
u iil be exposed for sale at Public vendue, in the town oi
' PittSvurgh in Pennsylvania, on the twenty-fourth day of
' oAobcr next, and thenceforward, from day tc day until
the f.rft day of December edfUing, unless tV.e said lots fcall
be sooner fold, in the manfier, and or. the terms and con -
diti'ons herein after mentibned, to wit:
lit. The said feftions or lots shall be fold under the di
r«Sion ef the Governor or Secretary of the Western Ter
ror' andfnch person as the t'refident of the United
;:es mayfpecially appVnt for tha' purptffc.
id. The said feAioits or lots fhali be fold to the hipheft
;i!cfer,but no fate can be made for left than two dpllars
acre of ths of liud contained in such lot or
.. . Uon.
.. Thehigheft bidder as kefore thentiofced, must depo
; ■ it the time of (hie, one twentieth part sis the pure afe
• niey, in the hands of such perfitm as the President of the -j
• " acd States fi;a!l appoint to attend the sales for that pUr
. which will be forfeited, if a moiety of the sum bid,
V.diiig the said twentieth part, {hall not be paid witnin
/ liitydiys from the time of sale.
,1. Upon payment of a moiety cf the purchase money
Jit'manner before mentioned, the purchaser will be
i;l. ' to one year s credit for the remaining moiety ;,
. jail rcceive irom the Governor ar Secretary of the
• 1 .:rn Territory, anc the person who shall be appointed
■ ■ preuilest 0. tlie United States, to dirciS the sales.a
._ ths lot or frilion pu: <:haled, and de
tii' i.ir.i paid or. accnqut, the balance remaining due,
iiie-ivi'.c* iVtfe kj.latlce becomes payable, and that I
'■ feslc lar.d therein mentweed ,W!f! be forfeited, if the j
«§§
'» -T* Ms
j. Lands of-the United 'States. . j *
Trc asa r y 13cps.rtmcnt ?
8. 179 6 - 1
Public Notice is hereby given, &
TNpttrfuanceof an r-ft of Congi-efs paTTed on the * Bth 0
' I of Mav "796, entitled "an a& prov.d.ng « for »
L(& : the Lands of theUnitcd State;, tttu territory 55
, V»I». h T£ -
S^SSSrsWaSfc*
SSASS'ij
until the tenth day of ensuing. " nl <*
„ ,-,,, , r -e- to-vnfhips (hallbe fa«n«r fold, in tae manlier a.,
on the terms and coadaions h«ei»aftet
rft The said cjuarter townfiups (hall OCfold 0
~ hiih"'l bidder, butnofaleambeitadefoi-Jefs than two
dollar: per acre of the quantity ot land contained m such
The hi<+.eft bidder as before mentioned, milft de
nofit'a' the time of sale, one twentieth part of thepur
chafe moncv, in the hand; of the Trcafurcr of the United
- Stares whi'ch will be forfeited if » moiety of thefueM,
including th- said twentieth part, fcall not be pa.d wjtllia
thirty days frcm the time of fa'.e.
id. Upon payment of a moiety of the purchase-in
ner in the manner beforementToned, the purchaler will
be entitled to or.e year's credit for the Remaining moiety ,
ana (hall receive a certificate describing the quarter town
ship purchased, and d daring th: sum p«d on
the balancefemaining due, the time When such balance
becomes payable, and that the whole Land therein men
tioned will be forieited, if the, said balance is not then
paid : but if the said balance (hall be duly discharged, by
paving the fame to the Treasurer of the United States,
or his alienee or other %il representative,
ihall bt entitled to a patent for the said land, on his pro
ducing to the Secretary ..f State a receipt for such bslince,
endorfedupon the certificate. But if any purchafcr {hall
make payment of the whole of the purchase moaey at the
time when the payment of the - ft raoi.ty is directed to
be made, he will be entitled to a dedu&ion ol ten per
centum on the part for which a credit is authorized to be
given ; and his patent ihall be immediately lffiied.
GIVEN under my hand at Philadelphia, tha day
arid Year "
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
SCHEDULE
! Of Qt-krter-Townlhips to be fold Ift Philadelphia, in pur
suance of the 6th fedion of anaS of Congress patted on
J the 18th day of May, 1796.
I '
* «
I o. " c
I - a. •- tj S
« '■£ <1 " r°
} £ c ■£ «- E- 1
I r8 > s O
Qi o o » v- *g
h H t ¥> g
.O V- ° P °
•ta < I o
I O U c • —
55 A 3 -a
£ o % <2
2 Soath Eali 5120
North East 5120
South Wefr 5110
j North Weft 5120
p % 20,480
I 3 5 South East 51 ZO —-. —: . 1 . ;
No-th Ealt
I South Weft -JI2O
North Weft 5120
j | • 20,480
1 iSouth Enft 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
J North Weft 5120
20,480
j g South East 5120
J North Eatl 5120
I South Weft 5120
I North Weft 5120
— 20.480
I 11 Sftuth Eafl 5120
North East 5120
I South Well 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
1.4 4. Ealt ji;o
I North East 5120
South Weft 5120
• North Weft 512°
h 20,480
6 South East 5120
|\ North East 5 120
Soujfi Weft 5120
I* North Well 5120
1 20,480
, I 8 South East 5120
I North East 5120
h , j South, Weft 5120
>. I ' North Weft 5120
h j 20,480
h I 10 South East 5120
I North East 5120
?* j v Sonth Weft' 120
J _ North Well 5120
'1 I .20,480
p. I 12 South East: 5120
h J North Eaftj 5120
;tl j South Well 5120
k j North Well 5120
?h . 20.450
L .y, I j 3 South East 4602
ch 1 North East 4654
p. I South Well 5 120
:h j North Well 5 120
-h 19,496
■ 1 5 South East 5120
'Jjj* I North East 5120
c h South Weft 5120
ch North Weft 5120
ip. [20,480
7 South East 5120
c j* North E,a(t 5120
Cl South Weft 5120
North Weft 5 110
ips be- " j 26,480
by the 6 9 'South East 5 120
"he Worth East 5 1 20
al'fur-1 ' |' 5 .20
have (North Wctt 5120
1 j 20,J-8c I
11 • 12 £ ■
q. j; <£
'<£ » = G
BL . . K S
« .9* 6 Hr f°
si <s 9 j= ■:
S3 ' H V
u- > o -o E
' ! £ fe < | 3
•2 I.' ~-
f -f-3
. — — Eaftkizo.
f North Eift j[2o;
- South Weft 51 20-.
North Wefi 5120,
— 20,480
j 13 South Easts! 20
4 M;it u . E".ftsl2o *•
s South Wei' 5120
1C North Weil 5 120 f';/
20,480
(5 4 South East 4630
c- North East 4SZO;
r- South Weft 5 1 20j
= d North Weft' y 120
• —| '9.490
6 South East 4.730,
a- North Ealt 47.15}
South Weft 5120
r; North Wefl 5 i 20 |
«, —:
ce 8 South Eaftiy 120j
n- North Eaftisl2o:
t( i South Weftjj 120
b V North Weft'c 120
H', I—*-
•0. io South Eaftiy 120
ce, North Eaft|sl2o
all South Weft 5 I 20
North WeilUi 20
I 20.480
be 12 South Eaft 5 120 v
North East 5I 20
SourtrVy eft ; 126
North Weft .5 120
20,480
14 South East 5120
North East J 12D
ur . South Weft 5 120
on North Weft 5 120
J0,480
— 7 3 South East 5120
North East 5120 /
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5 120
—- 16,480
j South Ealljl2o
North East j 120
South Wed ; 1 20
North Weft j 120
20,480
| 7 South East j 120
North E?fisi23:
South Weft ; t 20
North Weft J120;
20,480
9 South Eafijjli©
-Mortal v. ■. —rjgjf ~ '
South Wei U 1 20
North Weft ?T2o>
II South East ;i2O
North East 5120
South Weft 5 120
Jjorth Weft 5120
20,480
13 Sooth East ; 120
North Esfl Jl2O
South Weft 5 120
North Weft ; 12c
20,480
15 South East 5120
North East j! 2c
1 South Weft j 120
North Wefi 5120
20,480
NOTE.
1 THE quantities of Lands in the fevcraltownfhips b>
fore mcatianed,are exclafiire of the Sections teferved lif
the United States. The aggregate quantities is the fcvc
ral townftiips, hive been ascertained by a&ual survey ; tut
1 the quantities in the quarter "townftiips, have been no
otherwifc afccrtaineJ than by escalation.
YYafhmgton Canal Lottery,
N°. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorifeJ
the underwritten, to raise twenty-f.i thoufan ,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpole ot cu ins
a Canal through the City of Washington, trom tn
tomacto theEaftern Branch Haruour.
The following is ihe SCHEME of No. ?•
Viz-»l Prize of 20,000 dollars, iO-OQO
I ditto 10,000 10,000
7 lull dra«kS 35)000
Tickets, each J
6 ditto 1,000 6,0c0
jo ditto 400 4, cc 3
20 ditto 100 *,000
55 ditto jo 2,75°
5750 ditto 14 69,008
To be raised for the Canal, 26,23°
5850 Prizes,' 175,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.'
.-i. ,-..1.
17560 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
<£$* The Commiflioners -have taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid a<st for the punctual payment or
the prizes.
The drawing of this Lottery«wil! commence, without
delay, as soon as tl* Tickets are fold, of which timely
' notice will be given.
Such prizes as are rot demanded in fix months after the
drawing is finilhed, Jhall be considered as relinquished " or
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
( Signed J NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, o/V.
1 LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
. THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
} C:ty of Wafhingtoa, l eb. i-i. $
1 ... --zr r '
POINTED BY JOHN F E 0, x
—No. 119 —
CUES Nil T-STREET.
[Price Eight Dollars per ikatium.]