'
§>2 Hllitet* States, & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Numbkr 1299.] MONDAT EVENING, NOVEMBER 7, 1796. [} r 'olvmk
FOR SALE,
• THE SHIP MART,
SAMUEL PARKER, Master,
■ hundred tons burthen. Applyto
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MARY is not fold in a few days, (he will take
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
OS nber 31. d
For New-York,
r The Schooner Maty,
Joftab Dmelafs; matter ; will fail in a
few days, and take freight very low. Applyto
Joseph Anthony & Co.
Nov. 3. r
Tuft arrived, and will this day be lan
ded from on ftoard the brig FAVORITE at Chcfnut
flreet wharf.
25 Tons bejl Russia Clean HEMP,
16 Tons old Sable flat 1 RON.
*00 Coils bell Ruflia CORD ' GE, allotted sizes,
400 Pieces brown Rnffn SHEETINGS,
,co Bolls Ruilia DUCK,
24,0 Pieces Ravens do.
»0 Half-down feather beds, and
A few piecesafforted DIAPER.
FOR S.4LE ST
Joseph Anthony and Co.
J*—, The above mentioned BRIG
* n a ew days, and take freight on
moderate terms for Boston or Salem, for
whigh or paflage- apply on board or as above
October 31* d'
-" — -' ' ■
For Freight or Charter,
fll The Jhip COMMERCE,
' M ,THAN:EL CURTIS, Maftcr.
Almoftanew veflel, 844 tons burthen, and will
be ready to receive a cargo in a few days. Fo;
terms apply on board at Bright's wharf, or to
Joseph Anthony & Co.
For Sale on board the above VeJJcl,
A quantity of excellent COAL.
fjdT Persons having goods on board, are earncftly requeu
ed to fend their permits.
f i O&oberai. diot
For Boston, Newbury-Port and Ports*
mouth, New-Hampshire,
The Schooner LUCT,
• Daniel Prowfe, matter; will fail in
the course of a week< and take freight
ff on moderate terms, for which, or
- -KJciSfte; paflage, apply on board, or to
Joseph Anthony, Ssf Co.
Oflober 27. 'd
For Freight or Charter to Europe, or
the Weft-Indies.
jyERSSK""' The new Brigantine 1
T WSjgijV FAIR AMERICAN, '
IS in complffat order, and 111 reaclinefs for receiving
a cargo. She is a handy veflel, aitd has good accom
modations for paflengers. Apply to Captain Calley,
N e» board said veflel, laying the upper fide of the Still-
House wharf, Southwark. or to
Isaac Harvey, jun.
i No. 3, 50. Water-street.
uthmo. ift. diw.
* or Charter,
The Ship •Dominick Terry,
f^-^£c*sU 9C °b De Hart, matter: an excellent
Jfc>«i"--IS®j3Ssveffel, of about 3000 barrels burthen.
JeJe & Robert Wain.
September 21. d
or Charter,
The Danish Barque Beneiventuiia
'* Samuel Stub, matter,
«2a good vessel, of about two hundred y
tons burthen. JESSE & ROBERT WAI.N. 1,
1 7- dtf .}
FOR LONDON, ~~ '
Tbe capital (kip CERES, ll
ty^ oon : —For freight or paflage ~
to DAVY, ROBERTS & Co. or a i
John Vaughan, ei
September 10. Front-street.
The Brig MARY,
Jsb&Lyingat Meffri Willings and Francis's
wharf,burthen 2000 barrels, built in Philadelphia in 1793
of live oak and red cedar.—She is well found, and may ft
be sent to sea at a small expence. For terms apply to v 1
Gurney & Smith. m
Ofl. 6. ' dtf. A
v=*- For BRISTOL, S
THE SHIP p
Mmp HiLADEL PHiA, s
Theodore Bliss, matter. A;
A new ship, on her second voyage, wit,h the bett
accommodations for paflengers, and is intended to fail
with all expedition. For freight or palTage apply to < ~ t
tbe Matter 011 board, or to * m
Thomas & John Clifford: %
Wh6 have jutt imported in fitd .veflel, and hav.e for an '
sale, besides (heir general alTnrtment rj
<-f IRONMONGERY,
A nf fine drawn snd common ttiarp and
flat point NAILS ; double & Angle rell'd Sheet Iron • —
Iron Pets, Kettles, and Iron Weights, of all sizes •
London ami Bristol Pewter in casks, assorted ; tioxe;
<,(■ Tin Plates; cases of Men's, Women's and Boys' Co
Hate ; crates of earthen and flint Glass Ware ; crates pai
of Phials: boxes of Window-Giafs ; boxes of Ion"
fbert Pipes ; Copper in Sheers ; Oval Qnart Bot
tles In ha"ip?rs; also, a few c?.<ks of bottled Beer,
and two bales of Superfine Uroaiicloths and Cafli- D
meres. Oflolteri7. m&thaw
SALT PETRE. Pa
Co
A larjre quantity of Doutle-Refined Salt Petre for W
silt at No. 2;, South ThirJ-ltrect.
Jievember 5, dtf . 1
Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLER, jun. & CO.
.t0 Have received per the William Pcnn, in addition to
their own aflorment,
ike confighment of twenty trunks of Calicoes, ele
gant London patterns ; also a few cases of handsome
Buttons—Which will be fold at a Ihort credit, on very
— reasonable terms, by the package only.
O <51 • 14. - « ~-j« M
■ '
A CAPITAL ASSORTMENT OF
DRY GOODS,
John Miller, jun. & Co.
_ Exclusive of their own Importation now opening/*£J
Have received by the William Penn, Caroline and Diana
1- CONSIGNMENTS,
lut Which comprize a capital assortment to open a
Dry Goods Store.
—Amongst them are—
Common, super and fuperfine Clovhs,
Plain, tvrill'd and flrip'd Coatings,
Baizes and Flannels,
Point, rose and duffil Blankets,
Plain and puntea Caffimeres,
Swanfdowns,
Printed Calicoes,
Seotch Threads,
Hosiery.
They will be fold either in whole, er in part, by the
package, on terms which render them an objedl worthy of
on attention to purehafers. dtf Oil. 21.
{of
JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co.
— , No. 8, CHESNUT STREET,
Have Imported in the late vessels from Europe, &c.
E, AMD HAVE 10R SALE,*
A gMeral aflortnaent of GOODS, suitable to the season—
/ill Amongst whirh are,
For T>ROAD and narrow CLOTHS,
to -D Plain and twill'd COATINGS,,
q Rose striped and point BI.ANKETS,
FLANNELS and B AISES,
HATS alTort«d in cases,
IRISH LINENS,
c ft. INDIA GOODS, generally,
A (Jonfigned Invoice of
Cortprifing a capital assortment to open a ftore—inclu
r ding Thirty Caiks of NAILS. This invoice will be, fold
entire on very advantageous terms.
September 20. _ d
The Cargo of the Polacre Independent,
in /CAPTAIN CATHCART, from Alicant and Lif-
VJ bon, landing at the fubferibers wharf—
' 18 Pipes of Brandy
18 Bales of Spanish wool
3 do. of Annifeed
7000 Bulhels of bed Lilbon Salt
80 Boxes of Lemons
For sale by WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
or ALSO,'
Seventy Hogsheads of prime JAMAICA SUGARS,
received by the ship Dominick Terry, Capt. DeHart,
from Kingston.
» Sept- 13. d '
~ Cctibrated Nczu Work. . 1
"S —
v ~ This Day is Publiftied,
U- JOHN ORMROD, No. 41, in Chefnut Street, (four
volumes in two, neatly bound and lettered, price a I
dollars and jo cents,)
THE LOOKER-ON,
A PERIODICAL PAPER.
— Bytheßsv. SIMON OLIVE-BRANCH, A. M.
Ore teres modicq Pallenies rqdere Mores
Doftus, et ingenao eulpam defigrre ludo.
AUL. pers.
Nt -My business in this State .
Made me a Looker-on here in Vienna ;
Where I have seen corruption boil and bubble,
Till it o'er iuh the flew ; laws for all faults ;
— But faults so countenanc'd, that the flrcng ilatute* c
Stand like the forfeits in a barber's lhop, "•>
As much in mock as mark. I
S Measure for Measure.
".t appears from the dedication, that the editor of this r
, publication, is the Rev. William Roberts, A. M. F. R. S
■ f a ' low Cor l' us Chrifti College, Oxlord ; and from the '
last number, that the labor, and confcqueutly the merit of f
_ befe papers, ha-ve reft ad with the editor, excepting only p
a few contributions particularly mentioned. The editor's ,
design hat been, as he himfelf represents it, "to substitute J
the forfaken topics of morality, life, nature, and taste, in
,e t " e room of Ihallo vv 4 politics and news-paper philosophy, and
to betray men, under the maik of amusement, into serious
>r and manly thoughts. This design was laudable, and the
execution was meritorious. As literary productions, these
periodical papers are entitled to diflindion ; but their high- 1
_ eft pr<nie is, that they are throughout calculated to pro
mote virtue and good manners."
Analytical Review.
' s Lately Publijhed by J. Ornirod,
3 C°° d ° T " l °n the progress of the human mind, 7/6, ,
y Miss Williams' Letters from France, 4/8; Visit for a
Week, t/ 7 i-j ; Brown on the natural equality of
men, 4/"8 ; Life of God in the Soul of Man, 3/0 ;
Aikin s Letters to his Son. 9/4 i- 2 . Homer's Iliad
by I ope, i/l ■, Haylcy's Triumphs of Temper, with
plates, iff,j M'Ewen on the Types, 5 / 7 1-2 ; Seledl
' 'alms and Hymns for Youth, 1/4 i- J; Burke's ce
lebrated Letter to the Duke of Bedford, 1/10 1-2:
5 VV barton's Answer to Prieflly, 1/10 1-2 ; Watson's _
Anfwerte Paine, 2/9 x-z ; Watson's Answer to Gib
; bon: «/io 1-2 , Ctillen's Praflice, 2 vols, 30/; Bav
-1 'T OB 'he Dock Ferer of New-York, 7/6 ; Webfier'3 Al
> C ?| I le ' n 'on on the Yellow Fever, 7/6 ; Chaptal's Che- "
miftry, 3 vols, in I, 22/6 ; Prefirfent's Address, inl;
. oem on do. jd. 1-2; Britilh, Algerine and SpaßiCi —
1 reaties, ratified, 2/4 l-z ; Travels of Cyrus, French
and iingbfh, » vole. 15/; Win erbotliam's Hiflory ~f
China, 2 vols, ty/i Winterbotham's Iliftory of Chi
na, 2 vols. 22/6X-&C. &c. "1
; Nov - 3- • r d6t- J
Boarding and Lodging
' r 'j° GENTLEMEN may be accommodated with ?h(
lioarduiß and Lodging, in a private family and pleasant 1,01
1 P art °f tne city. Apply, to the. Printer. Pel. 11, t ts tic
Just Arrived, Po
By the Fly, Captain Hubber, from London, ex '
Double racked, Brown Stout Porter
in hoglheads. ' a f <
In 1 - 1 and " 4 LWt ' U &c
Copperas in hoglheads.
Whiting, &c. For Sale by ?
— the
Peter Blight.
■ ° ±>ober *5- dxttww ]
1
FOR SALE.
/ PORT WINE, and
HOLLAND GIN, of rhe firft qualifies in Pipes.
FRAUNCES acd VAN REED.
Brokers and CommiflSon Merchants, No. rfo. 3 J St.
Who discount approved NOTES of hand.
N. B. An APPRENTICE Warned.
September 14. mwf
~ Madeira Wine.
A few pipes of Madeira Wine, landing from on
board the Ibhooner Lucy, Capt. Prows, at Chefnut
ftreet wharf, and for sale for the subscriber.
Robert Andrews,
« 4 mwi No. 86, So. Wharves
Madeira Wine.
30 Pipes of the very belt quality, and fit for immediate
use, just imported in the schooner J .ucy from Madeira,
aad for sale by
"John Craig,
No. 12, Dock-street.
Who has for Sale,
_ Teneriffe Wine, in pipes, hog&eads, and cjr. calks.
Window GUfs.
Segars, &c. See, ■
'• Two trunks of the best Cotton and Silk
Hosiery.
n Oiftober 4. mwftf
n . - —
Brokers Ofhce., and
COMMISSION STORE.
No. 63 South Third ftreetjoppofitethemtiona) new Bank.
lt C AMUEL M FRAUNCES and JOHN VAN REED,
. O hare entered into co-pa rtnerfhip, under the firm of
j FR*UN£ES & VAN REED,in the/business (if Brokers,
Conveyancers and CommifTion merchants. They buy and
■ lei, on cofMßi&u» 1! ilock, no'.es of hand,
bills of exchange, houses and lands, &c.
Monet procured on dspofits, See. See. all kinds c?
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatnefsand
- difpatdh; accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the
most torrefl manner. Coßllant attendance will be given.
'They solicit a (hare of the public favor; they are deter
mined so endeavour to Jeferve it.
] N. B. The utmoil secrecy observed.
SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES,
JOHN VAN REED.
Philad. August 27, 1796. m&wtf
Benjamin and Jacob Johnson,
No. 147, Mark,et-ftreet, <
Have received by the last arrivals from Liverpool and
8 Hull,
A very general njpirtmint of DRY GOODS,
Well suited to the approaching ftafon, which they will
fell on the lowed terms by the piece or package
Oflaber 14- ' taw4w
Caution.
The following NOTES have been STOLEN from
the subscriber, on the evening of the 31ft ult. allper
fons are hereby forewarned from receiving the fame.
One, Robert Morristo Jo!:n Nicholfon, dated March
3d> IJ9J, and payable April 8, 1?96, for dollars
813. 93.
And one JOVI Nicholfon to Robert Morris, dated
and payable as jiiove, and for the fame sum.
The above notes with other papers were contained in
a Green Morocco covered almanack, and were stolen
with a quantity of clothing, from the piazza of the fab
fcriber. The clothing confided of one drab coloured
greatcoat, 1 do. clofp coat, 1 dark mixture do. 1 olive
mixture do. 1 brown silk morning gown, 1 old.black
silk cloak, I child's gtent coat, coating, 1 do. cloak,
cloth.
A handsome reward will be given for the Pocket
Book aud papers, by
James Todd,
No - z6, So. Front-street.
nth mo. jd.
> —— — ——________
, Imparted in the late arr'r»ntls from Europe er-d the
Weft, dies,
Holland Gin, i\ pipes
. Choice St. Croix Sugar and Rum
; Martinique MolaflVs, in hogsheads
1 Choice old Lisbon Wine, in pipes and quarter-calk*
t London Particular & Loudon Market Madeira Wine,
) in pipes, half-pipes and quarter-calks
t Malmfev Madeira V\ infi, in pipes and quarter-calks
, Teneriffe Wine, in pipes
Ruflia & Flemilh Sheeting and Ravens Dusk, in cafe*
Window Glass, 8 by io, in boxes
Coffee Mills and Straw Knives, in calks
Mill Saws and Cross-cut Saws, in boxes
Also, on hand,
A few chests of Bohea Tea ; Jesuits Bark ; AfFafia
tida and Tapioca ; and a few bales of CofTaes,
, Baftas, Gurrahs, Bandanna and Mullin Handker
chiefs, and a complete alfortment of t-4 and 6-.1
Bjulting Cloths.
For Sale by
Pragers Co.
Oclober 40 dawm&th2m
LAND I N G, *
Out of different vessels from England, and for fait
by the fubjeribers on reasonable terms.
Superfine and common cloths, and caffimers
Ribbed and striped do. do.
Blankets, mottled green and silk rugs.,
Superfine blue, Claret, and common coatings
Kerseys, Btar-lkins, plains and Halfthicks, '
Swanikins, Serges and Flannels,
Britifli Ingrain Carpeting,
HatsalTorted in cases of 1 2 doz, each.
Cbocolat" chintzes, printed Callicoes and Handkerchief*
v. car let Cardinals, and Scarlet Snail,
\arn, Worded, and Cotton hosiery,
Beavers, Thickets, Velvets, Corduroys, &c. &c
BufFand drab Genoa Cords of a superior quality.
Jd. Bd. iod 3 2d. iod. nails, and frying pans,
Anaffortment of Ironmon rry, Cutlery and a variety
of India cotton, and fi'k go nis. *
Tljovius & JofJiua Tijher.
.... , . _. No. 5, Dock-H'treet.
Also by the Gtnv om Dublin,
'' ;ens aborted in boxes of 30 pieces
do. Brown, Glazed Linnen. P '
0& - 17 -: _ atf.
Washington Lottery.
e 34th and 35th days* drawing of the Walhinirtnn
Lottery, No. a, are received at the office No. Mai
ket-fircet, whe r e a., «» may be examined.
, , N ' . Bt ln,or , mat ' on B ,y f n wiwre tickets in all the ether
otteries may be procured.
Novwnber 3, 1796.'I lit: PANTHEON,
And Ricxztts's Amphitheatre,
'' r Dqcclti'lin and Stage pcr.'crftiances, Corner ot
I Chelriut and Srxtli (treets.
THIS EVENING, Monday, November 7,
-«Tf. Ricketts refpeftfully informs the public, that
},c has been at confulerable expence in providing
■ilreflcs, Scenery, Music and Decorations, for the pan
• of CAPTAIN COOK, and he-assures his
;at-out that it (hall beliis utmost ftudyto introduce as
null variety and novelty as he peffibly can in the
-racfempnts of the Pantheon.
Master Franklin, 9 years old,
Will perform several Pleasing Feats
in Horsemanship.
■r which will be presented, a Comic Pantomime
under the direilion of Mr. Darang.
Equestrian Exercises,
By Mr. Ricketts and Co.
he wliolt to condade with the Grand Serious Pan
tomime, under the immediate direflioii of
Mefirs. Sully and Spinacuta,
The DEATH of CAPT. COOK,
.In the Jiland of Owyhee, in the Pacifie Otresn.
V'ith the Original Music, Dances, Decorations, &c.
The Scenery Painted by Mr. Shnydore.
Captain Cook, (of the Ttefoltition) Mr. Sully
Tirft Lieutenant, Mr. Ricketts
Midshipman, Mi. F. Ricketts
Sailors and Marines, Supernumeraries
Tereboo (King of Owyhee) Mr. Tompkins
Perea, (the favorite lover of Emai) Mr. Durang
Priest, Mr. Durang
Warriors, Supernumeraries.
Koah, (revengeful lover of Emai) Mr. Spinacuta
Emai, (the Kings daughter) Mrs. Spinacuta
• 1 M " ;
In aft I. the method of coortftjip and ma> riage ee
' reniony in Owyhee, with a beautiful View of the'
Island.
Manner of a Single Combat, with Battle Axes.
• In a<£\ 11. the arrival of Captain Cook in the (hip
Refolutiorc j his reception by the King and Warriors
of Owyhee ; a War Dance by the Natives , their
Preparation for War, and manner of Sacrifice, with
An exafi representation
Of the Death of Captain Cook, by
the Warriors.
In aft Tft. the Funeral Ceremonies made -use of
it Owyhee, with a Proctffton of the Natives to the
Monument ot Captain Cook, with Military Honors.
The wliole to conclude with
An awful representation of a Burn
ing Mountain.
*„* The Ladies and Gentlemen wlio secure stats in
the day time, areTequefted to attend punctually at 7,
as the performances are so arranged as to conclude by
10 o'clock—the doors will open at 6.
£3* Box, 7s. 6d.—Pit, 3s. 9d.
Tickets to be had of Mr. Ford, at the ticket offict in
Chefnut-ftrcet, from ten to three o'clock each day.
£5° Silver Tickets, to admit for the season, to be had
by applying ,to Mr. Picketts at the Pantheon, or at Oel
lcrk's Hotel.
£5" Days of Performance to be Monday, Wednes
day, Thursday arid Saturday.
No. 28, NORTH SECOND-STREET.
John Green & Co.
Have for Sale, on low terms, for Cash er the uftial
credit,
A General AJfcrtment of 1
Ironmongery, Cutlery, Brass and Ja
panned Wares, '
And a quantity of Ground White Lead, and Spanilh
•Brown in Oil and Powder.
UK£wm,
A finall invoice of Hats, of differeat qualities.
OHober 16. m&wtf
For Sale,
By Jehu Holl'mgfworih, Co.
1} hhds. Weft-India Rum, 3d asd 4th proof,
5 Barrels befl Indigo, and,
A few thoofaud bushels of Turk's lfland fait.
Oft- 17- A.
To be Rented, <
A Small and Convenient BREWERY, at 1
MorrisVille, oppojitr Trentsn. '
ALL the Apparatus for Brewing new and in good
repair : A numbci* of Barrels and Half-Barrels will 1
alio be rented. Pofftffion may be had at any time. ]
inquire of Mr. Garrett Coitringer in Philadelphia, t
-oi- Mr. Robert Morris,jen. or Daniel Man at Morris-
Ville.
October 20, 1796. mth&saw
Just Imported,
Tin Plates in bdi«s
Sheet and bat Lead a
Shot—all fires, patent and common
Copper bottoms and flieets *
English (hoes and boats in cifes
Taunton Ale in cases of -10 doe. each -4
'■?a(ket Salt
Wool Caids
Gold Watches.
'tor 'Sale liy
Simon Walker, <
Oft. ;■ mwfim Dook-ftreet.' <
Wm. Holdernesse, No. 76, ]
\
Has received by the laie arrivals, c
A H'ell ■ Selected As so HT MEtit of f
t ilk 'Mercery, Linen Drapery, and 1
Haberdashery Goods, l
T ■. icli lie will fell, wholesale and retail, en the very v
lowcfl thrills ;
AmongJ} am e
eicgarft 4-4 and 7-8 Chinticb and Cottons, new
r v
tto [nrniture ditto f
; .i.Uuifd, Book, snd Jaconet Mtiflius
' ti-Lo iu Gold and Silver
to Ncckcictl.s, very fine
\ iinruuv of si.e fall quality 't
Sj.li ;»rd Cotton Hoftcry c
Tr.' llasof tlie firll quality, aflfortcd
Lmeb*, very fint, and 'I'able Linens
1 aj it «.id Coiton Counterpanes 11
'' -r Blankets rj'omd—&c. C
0 N P E A CE.
£From a Paris Journal.^
" Do you .know," said a person to me j'.ift now,
what will form flic mod agreeable part of the fci
it tivalof the 9th Therraidor ? what the aireflory re
g fetves for that day ? In the midit of the fire-works,
J- during the calm of a mild and pleasant evening, a
'* ftiddenly appear, exhibiting thefc
13 worda, written in letter* of gold i Peace, Peace, is
concluded! and a thousand acclamations of
suddenly fill the air."
Thus spoke a good mar*, and all the good people
S round lidened and believed. Their confidence, in
whicK I could not participate, gave me some con
cern. 1 left tTiem, without' feckinjj to djluci the
ie pleasing illusion, and exclaimed—O Cod! wilt
thou pei nlit u» to fee that&me day, on which a ilop
was put to the efftilion of French blood on the fcaf
fold, confecratSd by that grand event, which would
1- pot a Hop to the effufion of human blood in the
field of battle ? That day would then b<j|cme dou
bly sacred to es! It wouid twice deliver tWromthe
> greatett calamities that a nation can experience—
tyranny and war.
My mind was filled with this idea, when I met a
man with a £rave a haughty mien, and in
flated with diplomatic dignity, who condescended
to utter the following wfrds : " The despots begin to
be humbled ; a few more vißories, and we Jhall have
them at our feet. Aujlria only waits for the junSiou
of our armies, in the road-to Vienna, in order to fab
mil."
Great God"! to what a pass are we arrived i—
What new chancct of misfortune, what new dan
ger of definition, have we yet to encounter ? Must
we again be abliged to hear the recital of those
> vidtorieß, ever glorious, ever lamentable, when our
armies, repulsed in four attacks, carried tire ene
. my'B entrenchments at the fiftb ? when the fields of
battle exhibited an immense number of vidtprj and
vanquished groveling in the dull?—I turned to the
diplomatic cbarader, and aflted him, if it would
not be equally glorious, equally advantageous to us,
r to offer Peace to the enemy, who must be in a fitu
t ation to wifti for it ? "We are (said ambitions
to obtain the title of a generous nation, aid so eager
are we after it, that we give it tb ourselves. Has
not fortune, then, placed us in one of those fituiti
ons in which we may display our generosity, rnd
f terminate the War, on receiving a just indemniy ?
f "If we consult the practice of civilized Euripe,
we (hall fee, that it Vias always the conquerors vho
offered Peace. Why then, should we meafurtour
■ glory by the humiliation of our enemies ? An not
otir victories our owi! Do they not already bilong
to history J Hitherto Europe ii silent before ij; (he
, regards us as conquerors, who, from the point vh-ich
, we have attained, look forwards, with a meiacing
' eye, to atll the points which we have not yet bten
able to attain. Let ub make known our mod.-ratioa
to ber."
1 At thefeAvordi, the countenance ef the person
j to whom I addressed myfelf, exhibited the fc'rongeft
. marks of disdain, I perceived that, in the kngtrage
of the Corps Diplomatique, the word Moderation lliil
■ retained that abjett and odious lenfe whkh we so
long assigned to it.
" Yes, Msderatiod (said I): —without modera
tion there can be no Peace; there cat be nothing
but deftruflive truces, in which your irritated ertf-
I my daily prepares for frefh hoftilitics, feeJcs bow h«
may take you by surprize, and solicits the resent
ment of every other nation.
" That Peace which, 1 trust, will soon be con
cluded, ought to ensure the repose of Europe for a
great length of time. Oh ! how glorious it would
be for our government te establish its claims, to
calculate tbem by the rule of rigid justice, and to
announce them in an. invariable, I bad almost said
in a solemn manner ! Hitherto we have only
known the use ef warlike Manifeltoes; it would be
truly great to publish a Manifcfto of Peace, every
line of which should breathe the spirit of Candoui,
Moderation and Justice ! It is thus that it v.ould be
glorious for us to introduce innovations into the
Pnblifc Law of Europe. <
" Aujlria in aggrandizing herfelf by the parti
tion of Poland, has given us a right, even flronger
, than that which we derive from our victories, to lay
claim to a just compensation.
" One great advantage to be reaped from such a
Manitefto would be that of not making a partial
Peace, but of forcing all our enemies to treat, as
their reGftance would unveil their ambition."
LA CRETELLE, Jun.
For the Gazette of the United States.
Mr. Fenng,
Please to publish the following letters, whichiare
a fatisfa&ory reply to citisen Adct'* note and the '
decree of the French republic. i; i
Philadelphia, July 24, 1793- '
Mr. Jefferfon, secretary of state, to Mr. Genet, 1
miriftcr plenipotentiary of France. 1
Sir.,
Your favor ef the 9th instant, covered the) in. 1
formation of Silvat Ducamp, Pierre Nouvel, Chou- ;
quet de Savarence, Gafton de Nogere, and G. 1
Ben(ticr, that being on their paflage from the '
French Well-Indies to the United Stated, on board 1
veflHsof the United States, with (laves and mcr- '
chandize of their property, thefc vefFels were (top- '
ped by British armed vessels, and their property I
taken out as lawful prize. 1
I believe it cannot be doubled, but by tht general '
low of uations, the goods of a friend found in the '
vefTel of an enemy, are free, arid the goods of an 1
enemy found in the -Bejel of a friend, art lawful prize. J
Upon this principle, 1 prel'ume, the Britifo armed 1
vessels have taken tile property of Trench citizens i
found in our vessels, in the cases above-mentioned, 1
and I confels I Jhould be at a loft on what principle '
to reclaim it. ft is true, that sundry nations, ds
- of avoiding the incouveniencies of having
their vessels Hopped at fca, ransacked, carried into
port, and detained, under pretence of having enc
inies goods on board, have, in many infiancei, 1
introduced, by tbeir special treaties, another prin
ciple between them, that enemy bottoms (hall make
enemy goads, aod friendly bottoms friendly goods j
= a principle milch U's emfcayafiirg to commerce,
and equal Isn't parties in feint of gum orlop ; but
ih\i the effcSlef particular treaty, con
trolling' in fpccial cases, the general piinciplc
v of the law of nations, and therefore taking oiFeft
between such nation only as have f« agreed to con-
C e troul it. England lias generally determined to ad
,s" here to the rigorous principle, having in no in
' fiance, as far as I recwlleAi agreed to the modifi
cation of letting the property of the goods fallow
that of the vessel, except in the fingh one of her
,j][ tieaty with Fiance. We have adopted this mo
dification in our treaties with Fiance, the United
,] e Netherlands and Pruflia, and therefore, as to them,
; n our vessels cover tlie jfoods of their enemies, and
we-lofc our goods when in the vessels of their ene
]'r mies. Accordingly, you will be pleafcd to recol
jj t left, that in the cafe of Holland and Mackie, ci
-0 tizens of the United States, who had laden a cargo
of flour on board a Britijh vessel, which was taken
hy the French frigate Ainbulcade, and brought in-
j lc .o this port tvhen I reclaimed the cargo, it was
only on the ground that they were ignorant of the
declaration of war when it was (hipped. You ob^
served, however, that the 14th article of our treaty
had provided that ignorance should not be pleaded
a beyond two months after the declaration of war,
n which term had elapsed, in this cafe, by some few
days; and finding that to be the truth, thotiph
t0 their real ignorance was equally true, I deslir.edthe
vt reclamation, as it never was in my. view to reclaim the
u cargo, nor in yours to offer to rejlort it, hy qutJUon
ing the rule ejlablijhed in our treaty, that enemy bot
toms make enemy goods. With Engla»d, Spain,
Portugal and Austria, we have no treaties, there
fore WE HATE NOTHING TO OPPOSE to their afiing
it according to the general law of nations, that tnemy
ft- goods are lawful prize, though found in the bottoms
lr cf a friend. Nor do 1 fee that France can fuffer
r _ on the whole, for though (he loses her goods in cur
vessels, when found therein by England, Spain,"
j Portugal or Au<lria,yet Jhe gains our goods, when
f found in the vessels of England, Spain, Portugal,
j Austria, the United Netherlands or Pruflia ; and
I believe I may fafely affirm, that we have more
goods afloat in the vessels of these fix nations, than
France has afloat in our vessels, and consequently,
T THAT FRANCE IS THE GAINER, AMD WE THILOSER,
by the principle or our treaty ; indeed we
ate losers in every diredtion of that principle ; for
j when it works in eur favor, it is to save #>e goods
P of our friends ; when it works against ui, it is to
lose our own, and we (hall continue to lose, while
J the rule is only partially established. When we
shall have established it with all nations, we fball be
t i" a condition neither to gain nor left, but shall be
less exposed to vexatious fearchts at sea. To this
condition, we are end«avoring to advance ; but as
it depends on the will of other nations, as well as our
own, we can only obtain it, whin they shall be
* r*ady to concur.
# I cannot therefore but flatter myfelf, that or
reviling the cafe* of Ducamp and others, you will
n perceive, that their losses refjlt from the Jlatc of
war, which Las permitted their enemies to take
e their goods, though found in our -vessels, andconfc-
U quently, from circuraftauces over, which ws
H AVE NO CONTROOt. --I —
ExtraS oj a letter from T. Jefferfou, Secretary of
State, to G. Morris, minjler plenipotentiary of Uni
-1 ted States at Paris.
Philadelphia, 16th Aug. 1793.
11 Another fouree of complaint with Mr. Genet,
has been, " that the Eoglifh take French goods out
of American vessels,*' which he fays is againtt the
law nations, and ought to be prevented by us.
# On the contrary, we fuppofc it to have been long an
j ejlablijhed principle of the law oj' nations, that the
goods of a friend are tree in an enemy's vessel, and
0 enemy's goads lawful prize in the vessel of a friend.
j ihe inconvenience of this principle, which fubje&s
merchant vessels to be flopped at sea, feaiched, ran-
sacked, led out of their course, has inducedffevtral
nations latterly to stipulate againji it by treaty, and
to fubjlitute another hi its (lead, that free bottoms
£ shall make Tree goods, and enemy bottoms, enemy
c goods, a rule equal to the other in point of loft and
gait 1, but less oppressive to commerce. As far as it
has been introduced, it depends tn the treaties Jiipula
r te"g "» and forms exceptions in Jpecial cases to the ge
neral operation of the law oj nations• We have
introduced it into ourtreaties with France, Holland
and Prussia j and French goods foHnd by the two
1 latter nations in American bottoms, are not made
-prize of. It is onr wish to establish it with other
nations. But this requires their consent also, is a
work of time, and in the mean while, they have a
j right to art on the general principle, without giving to
us, or to France, cause of complaint. Nor do I
fee that trance cai. lose by it on the whole. For
though she loses her goods when found iu our vef
e fels, by the nations with whom we have no treaties,
e yet she gains our goods when found in the vessels
of the fame, and all other nations; and we believe
the latter inafs to be greater than the former. It
t is to be lamented, indeed, that the general princi
ple has operated In "cruelly in the dteadful calamity
which has lately happened in St. Domingo. The
mifcrable fugitives, who to save their lives had taken
, asylum in our vessels, with such valuable and porta
ble things as could be gathered in t he moment, out
c of the asses of their houses, and wrecks of their
j fortunes, have been plundered of these remains by
. the lieenfed sea rovers of their enemies. TJis has
_ fwellcd, on this occasion, the disadvantages of the
, general principle, -that an enemy's goods are -free
prize 1b the vessel of a friend. But it is en# of those
j deplorable and uuforefeen calamities to which they
t expose themselves who enter int« a state of
! war, furnifKing to us an awful leff»u to avoid it by
justice and moderation, and not a cause of eacoarage
| ment to expoft our towns to the fame burnings and
j butcheries, nor of complaint because we 00
NOT."
» -
FOR SALE,
• About i,600 acres of Land,
\VELL situated, laying on and between Mirfh
and Beech Creeks, Mifflin county, Pennfylvinia, in
p tour separate Patents. For terms oi sale apply to
Wm. Blackburn,
. No. 64, Sauth Srcond-flri.'££.
1 ( Oflobwjj. uiwiif
1,1 Philadelphia^
H- '
>le MONDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 7,
a- Married on Thnrfday evening last, by the
d _ Thomas Jones, Mr. William Gusoh, to the 7
In- rotable Miss Rachel Test, both ofNew.J er f "
si- 1 ''' .
)W In the County of Philadelphia the rotes for
icr the Ticket beginning with tfie name of
io- Thomas M'Kean, amounted to ,g_.
cd Those for the Ticket beginning Israel
_ Whelen
n. m
nd — _
,e- Majority , 434
•l -I ' he following compliment to the French Gov?™.
ment it extra&ed from the Bojion imltjtcnJa
!n Chronicle of 31ft ult.
France, (and be not deceived my friend hy !\f r
a , King's letter from England, for 1 believe both he
je and Mr. Monroe are kept in the dark wiih rcfpcQ;
b to lhe "'tended condud »£ the Executive Diieflo.
ry towards us,) will and has begun to ttop B ur vef
-<j going to ur coming from Britidj ports,
'£ USEFUL HINT,
(, Communicated by the royal society of Sweden to
that ttf Londan,
ie After roofing a house witi wood, boil tar io *
a- at . le . and mnc purverifed charcoal wirh it,
(m »is of the thickness of mortar ; spread this
, t with a trowel about a fourth of an inch thick over
tf' e roof; it will toon grow hard and defy all the
vk-ifiitudes of weathsr. Roofs thus covered, have
f Itood in Sweden above a century, and ttill want no
repair. •
; r r BY THIS DAY's MAILS.
i~- HALL9WELL, Oflober 21.
„ We are informed that on the joth instant, the
| f Light-house, Dwelling house, & c . island of "j
j Seguin, were completed. They were built imter
e the direction of the Hon. Henry Dearborn We -
n congratulate our maritime brethren that so import
a»t and necessary a guide is erected on this Eastern
coast.
■#
r BOSTON, Odloberti.
6 CAPTURE OF ST. JOHNS.
0 Cjpt. Newcomb, arrived here on Saturday even-
e ing last, in 5 days from Profpeft, 9 miles fro®
e Halifax, informs that he read, in a Halifax news
e paper, dated the day before his departure, an account
e of the capture of St. Johns, together with tie Britijh
s vtjfelt of war, Jiationcd there, hy the French squadron,
s frequently mentioned in our paper to be off Ncw
r foundland. The captured squadron confided of one
K 74, two 50*8 and several frigates.
NEW-YORkTNovember 4.
THE SYNOD
, Of New-York and New Jersey, at their' late
t session in this city, appointed the firlt Wcdnefdsy
in December next, to be observed as a Day of
[ THANKSGIVING and PRAYER, by all the
churches under their care. ilmc the •
- Synod of the Reformed Dutch Church, at their last
meeting, agreed to obfeive the fame day.
From the Minerva.
Accounts of a late date from Germany, state,
that the Mitshillian doctrine of peftilemial fluidsi«
J bec&mirig known and gaining an eftahlirtiment in
e their univeriities ; Teveral of their most philofopht
cal and learned phyGcians have approved the prin
ciple, and have pronounced it to be very intercfting, /
e new and ingenious : Some of the iarrft pablicati-
ons in France contain numerous fadts that coincide
, perfectly in support of this fyftern ; and we hear
'' from Great-Britain, that men of lcierice and ta
lents, agree with the American ideas concerning the
1 generation and compofiiion of infc&ious fluids.
The (eafoßable addrels of governor J«y, to the Le»
giflature of New-York, on this fubjedt, will proba
bly be a prchide to the adoption of such modes of
preferviog and treating diftcmpers, called contagi
, ous, as (hall put a (lop to much of their mortality
in our cities, and prevent the panic and terror,
which almufl every year disturbs the public ttan
quility. If America his discovered the tree idea
J of llw things in theory, then it will be no less
honorable than important to apply found theory to
pradice in the regulations that the legislature should
adopt with regard to quarantine, Lazarettos, intro
duction of diltempers from foreign places, and, at
the governor expresses it, " the generation of them
1 here from nuisances among ourselves." It is to be
j hoped that New-York will set her example and take
the load in this ufeful and public woik.
NORFOLK, Oftobfr 25.
' We are authorlfed to fay, that Jofiah Riddiek,
\ Esq. of Nanfcmond county, offers himfelf as an
elettor for this dfftrift. Mr. Riddiek is a repub
-1 lican, and we are authorised further to fay, that he
will if elected vote for Mr. Jcfferfon, and against
Mr. Adams.
Extract of a letter from a gentleman in Philadel
phia, to his friend ia this city.
" Th* President's valedidlory address yeu have
' without doubt attended to. It is therefore the du
ty of the republicans to aft in concert and with vi
gour in the choice of his fucc<;ffor. We mud choose
electors who will vote for Mr. Jefferfon, andagaislt
' John Adams. It is not enough that they vote for
Mr. Jcfferfon, but they muk vote against John A
| dams, lince evidently a vote for Adams in your
' state, will be' a vote against Jeffetfon.—For vice,
president is very material, so he be a republican.
We here contemplate Mr. Burr, of New-York.or
I Mr. Langdon, of New-Hampshire. Various arts
are already prafliled in order to defeat Mr. Jeffer
' son clandestinely, the President's addiefs does not
fecm to look with a friendly eye towatds him ; tha
serious declaration in the addrels, that an eftaHi/hed
nat'mnul religion is neccifary to fuppott national mo
rality, has an afpeA twwards a r'ligiou; ejltiblifhment,
that ought to make the people who advocate the
rights of conscience look about themselves—Mr.
Adams '.tnown to be a friertd to such an efta- v
blifhment. Mr. Jcfferfon framed yrnr religious
bill, and that is enough to prove him an advocate
for the rights of co»fcit«ce."7,7 th• Printer of the Gazette of the United States.
Sir,
Miii'tcr Adet fays—" The flag of the French
republic will treat the flag of neutrals, 'in the fame
ml n»er aathey shall fuffer it to be treated by the
£ ; iglilh —He maintains that France is juftilied
in taking American veflels to prevent the Briti(h
from profiting by taking them.—Now, according
to the rules of this diplomatic logic, England
ought also to take our vtffela to prevent their falling
into the hands of the French, who may profit by
their capture, to the detriment of the British, who
might urge, in citizen Adet's own language,—
•' the flag of the Briii/b nation will treat the flag
of neutrals in ihe fame manner as they shall iuffer
it to be treated by the Frineh."
If the fame argument can possibly jaftify the
French m-nite inftnnce, it will, on the fame princi-'
pic, jnfiify 'he Britijh.— But, when the British take
Amciican vcflels, and the capture is illegal, there
is an appeal from their court of admiralty to com
iriiffioncis, delegated by both parties, to arbitrate
and determine upon the terms of indemnification.
—But, what appeal, what mode of redrsfs—let
me a fit, have we from the arbitrary and illegal cap
tures of the French, if minister Adet'a memorial
is to be ftri&ly adhered to ?
If these questions cannot be answered in favor of
th' French, what rauft every man in his sober senses
thidk of the modejl^of a diplomatic appeal to the
people of America, through the medium of a netuf
paper? »
Fellow-citizens !—is this calculated, do you
ihink, to excite your friendjhip, or your indigna
tion ? Those who begin to blush at it, now endea
vor to apologize it away, by hinting that it is only
an (kctiorteering manauvre ; but sooner would I be
lieve that Dumourier (who is fafd to be in this
country)—or that the your.g duke of ©rleans (who
lately arrived at Philadelphia) had brought over
minister Adet's letter along with his own pnffport
/ from the French directory, than attribute the publi
cation of it to any such unminifter-like and inter
meddling motive with the governmental affairs of
our country. A LOOKER-ON.
*,• our readers are requested to corr-cft the following
errors of the press which occur in the eflay iigned " Uni
m," pnVililhcd in Saturday's Qizcttc.
Insert the word even before it, in gth line.
f id paragraph line 14, for this book read kit book.
Same pai agrah, 31ft line, for continued m France, read
continued in force.
4th paragraph, 16th line, for Government read Go
vernments.
Same paragraph, -<th line from botto*i of the column,
insert after the word, hereditary, nor their Senators.
Same paragraph, 3d line from top 3d column for chief,
read frj). 4th line for observes, read otfcrve. In Bth line
for one, before Constitution, read our. 6th paragraph,
Uth line for motions read meteors.
I %
«AtITTS OF THE ONItEO STATES MARINE LIST.
P H I L A D ELPH I~A, November j.
ARRIVED. Days.
Ship Charlotte, Jflanchefter, Providence, R. I. 10
Brig Lilly, Smith, : """" Iflarw! rr
Schooner Winfield Packet, M'Neran, Norfolk 9
Nancy, Thomson, Virginia J
Betsey, Williams, N. Carolina 20
Betsey, do. 9
Sloop Hope, Faucett, Weft-Caicos 24
Merion, Stillman, Richmond 37
Lilly) Hickes, Rhode- Island io
Bfandywine, Borden, do. 10
Betsey, Cook, Viiginia 7
Schr. Industry, Green, Richmond 14
Weymouth, Stevens, St. Bartholomews 2f
CLEARED.
Ship Amity, Herderfon, Havre-de Grace
Brothers, Henderfoit, Suiinam
Golden Age, Earl, Kingston
Brig Mintr /a, Bray, Hamburgh
Newton, Da Costa, St. Croix
Polly, Coffin, Boston
William, Lunt, Newbury-Port
Schr. Susanna, Carson, Hifpaniola
Sally, Merchant, St. Bartholomews
Sloop Lydia, Guthrie, New-York
Endeavor, O'Butler, Baltimore
Salem, Watson, New-York
Eliza, Jackson, do
Polly, Butler, Norfolk
Ship Supetb, Boyd, Sr. Thomas
Barque Providence, Jones, Cambden
Schr, Hawk, v Hunt, Barbadoei
Telegraphe, Vanneman, St. Croix
Induitiy, Thomas, Bolton
Polly, Ober, New-York
Sloop Hope, Fofttr, Do.
New-York, November 5.
The following vefTels belonging to are
captured and carried into Leogane.
Brig Charlotte, H. King, of New-York, detain
ed 52 days.
Brip Glasgow, Z. Godwifli, of New-York, de
tained 65 days ; 1 fcaman dead, 2 abandoned.
Sloop Maria, Thomas Pearce, of New-York,
•(detained 34 days ; 5 seamen dead.
Schooner Hibernia, Brown, of New-York,
detained 25 days.
The following is an accurate statement of the
number of vessels lying in this hatbor yeflerday
morning.
Ships 85
Brigs and Snowt 75
Schooners 69
Sloops 196
Total 425 i
Exclusive of Petty-Augers, Shallops, and other
river craft.
Artived at the port of New-Yotk from foreign
ports only, ttadinji vessels, from the firft day of Oc
tober 1796, to the firft day of November 1796,,
including both days.
Ships 54
Brigs 3t
. Barques I
Schooneis 3 6
Sloops » 16 ,
Total 138* J
! The Elephant it returned from Balti
more.
THE public are refpe£tfully informed, that
j auimal is to he leen every day, from 8
o clock in the morning till fun-down, in Market
j street, No. r®6, south fide, between Third and
Fourth-fttcets.
_ Admittance a quarter of a dollar, that every ci
j tizen may fee him.
At the feqaeft of many perfans it will be
exhibited on evenings from five to eight o'clock,'
at half a dollar each.—The room will be Well
lighted.
No vender 7.
To be Sold,
BT PUBLIC VENDUE,
On Monday,'the fourteenth day of November, at the
haute of the late Widow Kille, on the banks of the
Delaware, near Racoon lower bridge.
A quantity of HoUfehoid and Kitchen furniture.
Working oxeb.
Horses,
Milch cows.
Fat cattle.
Hogs.
Sheep.
Calves. •>
Two light riding waggons, with harness.
One Sleigh.
Rye in the ground, and in the bulhel.
A quantity of hay.
Indian corn, and all kinds of farming utensils.
The sale to begin at ten o'clock on said day. Atten
dance will be given, and rhe conditions of sale made
known by RICHARD TITTERMARY.
N. B. Said farm to be let on a lease for one or more
years
Nov. 7> *mS;w.
' 1 '
TO BE SOLD,
A LEASE for faun years, from th? 2stb March next, in that
capital and beautiful FARM, called
P R O S P E C T-H I L L,
Situated within one quarter of a milt from the Braadywirx
Mills, and half a mile from the borough of Wilmington.
HPHE dwelling house ii built of (lone, two stories high,
* gemeely fimfhed, and contain s four handsome rooms on
a floor, befrdes an entry, with capital garrets, and convenient
cellar*. It is generally thought to command the moil a
giceable profpeft of the Delaware, froip the source of that
liver to the Capes. This profpett ia gieatly e.nbcllifhed By
a Full view of a vafl bodv of meadow, through which
ChriilianS and Brandywine crceks are leen winding in beau
tiful meanders. Near the houfo arc a Kitchen, a spacious
(lone flable znd hayloft, i barn, a carriage house, milk
houfe, &c. aftd a well of as puie water as any on the conti
nent. The garden contains an acre and quarter of land, a
boundhg with fruit, and particularly with peach trees, of
1 the very best kind, brought from Maryland, and in full bear
ing. There is, moieover, on the place, a young, apple
• orchard begining to bear, and leveral old trees that produce
abundantly, befidea cherry and other ornaqie>>:al trees, in
1 great numbers. The farm contorts of near sixty acres of land,
of good quality,'and clear of incumbrances, except taxes,
twenty of which are now in excellent clOves afid timothy,
and ten more will be ready tor (owing next spring. A re
fydeiice of nearly 8 years has convinced the fublcribet that
the situation is remarkably healthy. The great post load
fi-om Philadelphia to the Southward runs within seventy
yards of the house. In a word, the beauties and conveni
ence of this fituatinn cannot be enumerated in ati advefivie
ment, and when examined, will probably command the at
tention of any person who is desirous bf living at one of the
moA ry fpais on the Continent. The purehafer
may enter cn the premifrs next fpnng, or perhaps, this fall,
if application be immediately made to Doctor NICHOLAS
WAY, in Philadelphia, to Do&or WH on the
premises, or x in his absence, to Mr. GEORGE TRUI IT, in
Wilmington.
A quantity of excellent Hay, Grain in the ground, fame
Stock, &c. tnay be had by the purchaTer at the time of sale.
Nov. 7. eodcf
FOR SALE,
AT the Horse Market, on Wetlnefday next, if not
before disposed of at Private Sale.—A haudfome
COACH, having falfc Venetian Blinds, and large
Glass Lights, with Harness for two horses—Also a pair
of BROWN HORSES, m good condition. Terms
of Sale half cash and halfin aa approved Note at 60
days.
November 7. 2
Fashionable Waistcoating.
GEORGE DOBSON, No. 25,
SOUTH THIRD-STREET,
Hat received per the Diana, from London,
Clouded and ilriped Spaniih Swaniaown
Clouded Errainatf and Mole(kin»
Striped do. and d».
Figured Manillas
Scarlet figured Erminets
Printed Florinetta
Do. Csffinets and CaSmeres
Superfine printed Qijiiltingi, newest pattern!
Also, per different arrival*,
A large and general assortment of Dry
Goods,
Suitable to the pfefent and approaching season.
dtf
A few Pipes of WINE,
Imported in the brig FAME, from Madeira, to be fold
by MORDECAI LEWIS,
Who has also to Jifpofa of on reafonablc terms,
JRISH LINENS, well assorted
BANDANNA HANDKERCHIEFS
WIDE NANKEENS
COSSAS AND BAFTAB
RAVENS DUCK
DIAPERS
QUICK SILVER
CHINA
ROLL BRIMSTONE, &c.
Ober 27. tawim
Univerlity of Pennsylvania,
Oflober J, 1796.
The Medical Lectures will eoirimence the firft Monday
in November. taw
This Day is Published,
And fold by JOHN ORMROD, No. 41 Chefnut-ftreet,
( Price onefifteenth of a Dollar.)
A POEM
On reading the Pr*sidint's Adarcfo,
WITH A SKETCH OF THE
CHARACTER or A CANDIDATE,
r O R THE
PRESIDENCY.
This elegant little PoiMi»printedin a form to be bound
with the Pkisibent'» farewell acldrei»,lat»ly publilhed by
John Ormrod.
November J.
lo hogflieads St. Croix Rum,
S Pipes Vinegar,
, For Sale, by
j E-zekiel Hall,
No. »o, Penn Street,
j Nov. 7.
For Sale, or Charter,
The Ship DIANA,
e Samuel Pile, Master,
Burthen 105 47-9$ tens regifttr, built 111
i Philadelphia in the year 1791, of live oak
and? red cedar, and was fke.rthed 13 months ago, she
has just had a compleat out-fit, and may be sent to sea
at a very trifling expence.
.. For terms apply to
Philip Nicklin & Ci).
Who hsvt fur j'slt on hard fuid vejjtf>
57 rtflu x>f fine yellow paint.
9 boxes and li bundles of writing states.
1 bt?x ink stands and note presses.
14 bales of fail canvass.
And on hand>
Imperial
Hyfiin, and, > TEAS.
Souchong )
40,000 pieces Nankeens of the firft quality.
19 tubs Qii'ckGlver.
a chests Bandanno handkerchiefs.
A few chests Manchester good, well alforted in Cdr
doroys, thicksets, Ginghams, Muflinets, Dimities, &c. (
1 boxes black sewing filfc.
180 crates Queens ware well assorted. 1
10 tons iheetTead.
Nails afl'orted, flat and (harp points.
e London Particular, ")
London Market, i l
i New-York Market, > lnd
40 pipes and tohopfheads Teneriffe wine.
8 ticrces Snake Root.
330 logs Mahogany.
Nav 7. tth&fif
t For Liverpool,
- The Ship DOMINICK T-ERRtA
Ir- -Jacob D*ha&t, Mailer.
. Has a part of her cargo engaged. —
flight or passage apply to the mas
, •; ter bn board, at the whar of the sub
» fcribers, or,
Jeffe & Robert Wain.
• Nov. 7. _ ri d-
For Lisbon,
TheDanifh barque Beniventura, '
Samuel Stub, Matter,
good veflel of about two hundred
~ tons burthen. For freight or passage
' apply td
r Jeffe W Robert Wain.
■ Nov. 7. <L
For Charter,
' The Ship JO fIN BULK ELY,
' Ayb.ES Stocklky, Master.
; excellent tive-oak and cedar built
1 of about 3000 barrels burthen. —Ap-
I .k;ply to
"Jeffe is? Robert Wain.
Nov. 7. '!•
- oT)~TUESDAY EVENING, the Bth inft.
Will be Sold,
' Mervhani't Ctjfu-Heufe,
t The Schooner Lucy,
1 Inow lying at Chefiiut-ftreet wharf; a fine, flout
built veflel, one hundred and ltxteen tons burthen ; in
c every refpedt well founiT, and may be sent to sea at a
fm-!\ ex pence —the inventory may be seen at the
Comp*ing-Houfe of the fubferibers, or at Footman
and Ca. auctioneers.
t Joseph Anthony b" Co.
, Nov. c. d
r Plans of the city of Philadelphia,
s Including theNoRTHERN Liberties and diftridl of
3 SOUTHWARK,
Published, and fold by
BENJAMIN DAVIES,
No. 68, High street,
(Price one dollar.)
THIS plan is a 6 inches square, and has been en
graved by one of the firft artists in the city, from a late
and accurate survey. Purchasers are entitled to a pam
phlet with each plan, giving " some account of the
city, its population, trade, government, &c.
July iq tu&ftf
OLD
London Particular Madeira Wine,
la pipes, hogsheads and quartcr-calks,
Landing this day at Chefnut-ttreet Wharf, and
for fa!« by
Joseph Anthony & Co.
r Nov. i. d 1
Jieft Boston & Nova-Scotia Mackarel,
Excellent Halifax Salmon in bbl*. ;
47 bbls. prime Coffee, ,
Bett Boston Beef,
Coil fill 1 in hds.
Spermaceti Candles,
Spermaceti, and 7 „. T
Northern J
Mould and dipt, tallow candles, of a fuperiof '
qlwlity.
A few boxes excellent bfown soap,
6 Bales of Corks.
40 Pipes excellent Lilbon Wine.
A few sacks of Feathers.
A few bales India Muilint.
FOR SALE Br
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
October 31. d
Mr. FRANCIS,
(Of the New Theatre)
TAKES this opportunity of returning thanks to his ,
. scholars and to the public. Mr. Francis intend?, 1
on his return from Maryland, to open a public aca- I
dfipy for dancing, upon a plan entirely new. He 1
flatters hirafelf that his attention to his pupils hi- i
therto renders any promises of fcondU&kig his future i
feheines on the molt liberal and ftridtelt terms, of pro
priety, totally unnece/Tary. 1
iV. 3. Private tuition as usual. 1
3 law 1
Wafhingtoa Lottery.
The 34th and 35th Days Drawing are arrived at the
•oflice No. 147, Chefaut fttsat.
Prizes in the above Lottwy »rs ecchanged for tickets
warranted undrawn.
/. : I
<r(
P o R $A I- ft _
A very Vafuabie filiate,
CALLED T JTTIN KA M, ftmate in ftp
townlhip of VpperDcrb)', andco.tnty of Dshwarcj
7 t-» miles front PWiadelpihiu, aftu hSff a iHi'sf from the
new Welter# foad: containing »J« acres of excellent landj
4j bl which ai'e (food wstcrcd meadow, gd of pi'inis wood
land, Ind the reft arable of the firll quality. There are
en the preniifc a good two (lory btickhoufe, with 4 room*
on a floor, atld cellars under the whol", v»ith a pftiap-weff
of excellent water i!i front; a large frame barn, stables,
and other convenient buildings; a fmolcc-houft aRd flone,.
spring-house : twO good apple orchard*, and one of peach'
es. The fields are all in clover, except thofc immediately
under tillage, and are to laid out as to have the advantage
of waterifl each of them, which reuders it peculiarly con*
veniejit for crazing. i~~
The ficnsHon is pleasant and health", arvd From theJifefc
cultivation of the lirtd, the good n-ighbourhood, antl the
viciniyr to the city, it i> very filitable far a
country feat.
The foregoing is part of the estate <Jf Jacob
deteafed, and offered lor fule by %
.Mofdscai Lewis,
Oft. 31. law . Surviving Executor
F0 R SA L ~
A PLANTATION,
ABOUT \i miles Trot*this City*iltuafe in Abifig*
tan Township, Montgomery-County $ containing
70 a*res, a new ftctae house, two dories high, 2 rooms on *
floor, fire p!«ades in each, a lfeone kitchen and flone ffiring
hdufe, over an excellent faring oi water, a Bjhi,
Iheds, barracks, &.C. A lafge apple orchard, and a variety <7
otherfrutf. about 12 acres of good meadow well watered^
aiid wood fufficicnt for fire, ind fenciog the place. Pollcfli-*
on may be had the rft of April next. Property in this city
will be taken itt exchange* or MORRIS and NiCHOLSQISJ*
Notes in payrrteot. Enquire at No. 37, Arch-Strect.
Philadelphia, September 1796. ttftf
* ' - ' * * ■ r,.-.
City cf Wafliington.
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, Mo
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT 0 r THE
* FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent ) io,ooo dollars, & >
awelling-hoflfe, j ca(h 30,00 ft, ire J ,00 °
1 dso is,ooo & calh i.;,0a0 40,000 '
1 ditto 15,000 & cafii 15,600 30,000
I ditto 10,000 & calh 10,000 . 20,00®*
I ditto j,OOO & calh 5,000 to,coo
1 ditto 5,000 <k calk 5,000 10,000 /
1 cash prize of 10,090
3 do. 5,000 each,are * 10,000
10 do. i,aoo * * Jo,ooo
ao doi j«» - • 10,009
00 do. too » - 10,000
400 do. - S 0 ' ' 10,000
4CO do. IS • XOjOOO
1,000 do. ao - 10,000
15,00® do. JO • * Jfß,eoif
16,739 Prizes.
3V i6l Blanks.
B/o,oco Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
m
N. B. Tofivour thofc who may take a quantity rA
Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the last draw*?
ticket, and the 30,ooothe last hVst one :
And approved notes, securing payment in either mottty
or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be received {ctr
any number not less than 30 tickets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant ffieci'mcn erf thrpfv
vate buildings t» he ere&H in the City of Walhingtott-«>
Two beautffijl designs are already felefled fflr the entire:
fronts on two of the public fquarcs; from these
it ispropofed toereel two centreand four corner buildißert,
as soon as poflible after this lottery is fold, and to csnrey
them, when complex, to the fortunate advenftirsrs, i» ,
the manner Jefcribed in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery*
A uett deduction- of five per cent, will be mide to defray
the necessary expenses of printing-, &c»<*nd the furpln*
will he made a part of the fund intended for .the National
Univerlity, to be creeled within the City of Wafliington.
The Drawihg will commence as soon as the tickets are
fold off.- -The money prizes will bepayableia thirty day*
after it is finifhed; and any prize* for which fortunate
nambers are not produced Within twelve months after ihjf
drawing is closed, are to be confijered a, given toward*
the fun<i for the tlniverfity ; it being determined to fettle
the whole business in a year from the e iding of the draw I
irig, and to'take up the bonds given as security.
The real securities given for the payment of the Prize*,
are held by the Prefidenf and two Diredors of the Bant
6f Columbia, and are valued at more thai! half the a*
■ mount ot the lattery.
The twenty lour gentlemen who by appoirftnfent of
' the late Commiflionel-s a (Tilled in the management of the
Hetel Lottery are requcfted to undertake this arduous talk
a lecond time on behalf »f the public ; a fufficient num •
ber of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
friends to a National University and the othsr federal ob-»
je&s may continue to favor the de£gn.
By accounts received from the different parts of the
Continent as well as from Europe, where the ticket!
have been ftnt for sale, the public are allured that the
drawing will speedily comm«n»e, and that the care and
caution unavoidably necessary to infute a fafe disposal of
the tickets, has rendeted the (nor fufpenCon indilpenfabl*,
SAMUEL BLODGET.
.§. Tickets may be had at the Batik of Columbia ; of
James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter Grlmafc, Boston j
of John Hopkins, Riohiboftd ; And of Richard
Cooper's Ferry.
Lottery
FOR rrjfing fix thousand fix hundted attd fixty-ferei*
dollars and fifty cents, by a. dedudlion of fifteen ptr
cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a priee. viz
I Prize of 5000 dollars is dollars 500?
I 1000 100^
* 5 00 59^
J 130 ioc6
acoo
99 jo 495W
»°® U SOCO
1006 ro IO.OCCT
J Last drawn numbers of rooo dollars each, 500Q
»33» Maes. 44,45 a
4018 Blanks,
6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44.4 , T»
By order of the Diredors of the Society for eftabliih
ing tNitfolManufactures, the fuperiijtendants of the Pat
erfon Lottery hive reqaefted the Managers to offer ti.e
foregoing S.heme te the public, ami have djreded thern
to refund the money to those persons who have plitcluilecl
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
in this Lottery.
The lottery hasadually commenced drawing, and will '
continue Until finilhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prize*
may be seen at the office ol Willi#, s Blackburn, No.
south Second street, who will givenWotmation where tick
ets may be procured.
Dated this 17 th day of June, IJO6.
J. A r CUMMING, ")
JACOB R. HARDBNBERG, f
JONATHAN RHEA, >
dtf
: 1CXX
* FOR SALE,
i\n elegant HOUSE, No. 78, Walnut
ftreet ;
WHICH is «5 feet front, by 171 feet deep, with a
lot adjoining, 40 1-2 feet wide, by 72 feet 8 inches
deep. (This lot is back of the house occupied by
George Willing, Esq.) The house is completely finifti
ed in every refpe&. It is 50 feet deep, has two .
larg« p irlours, the front one 24 feet, the back one is
22 feet, by 18 1-2 feet, a handsome drawing-room,
24 1-2 feet by 24 feet. The rooms below, the draw- 1
ing-room and the chambers adjoining, have mahogany {
doors, and these as well as the rooms above them have
a communication with each other. The height in the
firft and second story is 12 feet, and have ftoco cor- ,
nices, and nine rooms up flairs, besides the garrets, 1
which are divided into three rooms, a good kitchen,
■wash-house, milk and bathing-houses, a large ice-
Jioufe, a pump in the yard, and a 3 feet 3 inch illey, ,
that leads into Fourth-llreet, The cellars are laid with
lime, and floored with two inch plank, and plastered.
The yard is well paved, and the house is clear of
ground-rent. All the rooms have bells in them, and
the chamber bells ring in the garret, as we" as in the
entity down ftaii s. All the chambers have white tiles,
except the one next to the drawing room, which has
as well as the drawing-room and the two parlours be
low, mirble chimney pieces. The draw ing-room, the
two parlours below, and the entry, are p.ipered up to
the third story: In the room over the kitchen is an
open flove. In the wash room there is an oven, and
the back buildings, from the cellar, all the way up 1
have large closets, and in the cellar is a large bottle
rack, a wine store is taken off of the cellar, and three
bins to hold bottled liquor are made in said room
with padlocks to them ; the whole cellar and the cock
loft areas well plastered as any room in the house.
Jr. short, the house is in every refpeifl completely finKh
ed. Possession (hall begiven in ten days after the houie
is fold. Two brick llables to Walnut-street, with
two coach houses. dhe of them will hold two carri
ages, the other one. Thefnialleft able has room for
three, and the largell for four horses. It is is 21 feet
front on Walnnt-itreet by 50 feet, 3 inches deep. They
have excellent lofts over them. The building is arched
and laid with lime and two-inch plank, and the cellars .
will hold about 100 pipes of wine: Is clear of ground
rent, and has the privilege of an 11 t-2 feet alley, that
leads into Fifth-ftreet. /Vlfo a brick store, 33 feet front
on Foilrth-ftreet, by 50 feet deep, which might at a
small expence be turned into a handsome dwelling house
having been fd contrived inthe building. It has a yard
48 feet 6 inches wide, by 24 feet deep, has a rain wa
ter pump, and other conveniences, and-the cellar is laid
with two inch plank, and is now rented at 40 dollars
per month, 'i his building is fubjeel to a ground rent of
11 dol.ars 3-4 per annum. The store and flables I would
give immediate possession of. GEORGB MEaDE. 3
No. 78, Walnut Street. '
, Terms of payment for the foregoing property, viz.—
16301. may lay one year certain, after the sale and it
theintereft is regularly paid, that humane, worthy,good,
and friendly man, Edward Stiies, Esq. fays it may lay
as long as the purchases pleases (purely he fays to oblige
, me) the interest being regularly paid.
48D0I. to be paid in approved no'es, and approved in- 1
dorlers at 12 months, the remainder in approved notes 1
and approved ißdoj-fers, at 15, 18, and 24 months, the 1
property to be secured for the payment. The fta'olesmay
be paid for in like manner, and the store too, all but 4000 *■
dollars, which mull be paid in an approved note, and ap
proved indorfer, at 6 months, the whole payable with
interest.
OA. 26. dx.
To be Sold, '
AT PUBLIC VENDUE. ■
On Thursday the 6tb day of April next, at iz o'clock. ®
at Dougherty's tavern, in the to<wn of Winchejltr, t
in Virginia, the following lands, ftuate in the /aid f
slate, viz. a
No. 1.—430 Acres, F
Of excellent land on the waters of Back-cretk, in *
Frederick county, on the great road leading to the *
South Branch, aiout ten miles from Wfnchefter, 100 '
lcres of which is rich bottom, a fine stream running
through it, with several springs, the trees in the bottom
are chiefly sugar maple, black walnut, hickory and lo
<;uft. There is a log dwelling and ont-houfes, lortie
m-adow made, and 40 acres of upland cleared. On a
this tratft there is a good triill fe_t, where an under- l
ihot-mill might be ereifled. 0
No. 2. —800 Acres. ti
Situate in Hampshire county, on the north branch li
of the Potowmack, and on a branch callfd Cabbin-run,
about eight miles from Fort Cumberland. On this
trail is a large quantity of rich bottom, fit for meadow
or the culture of hemp, the upland remarkably good,
being chiefly timbered with walrtut and hickory. The
above trail is in two surveys of 400 acres each.
No. 3. —200 Acres.
Situate in Franklin county, about ten miles from
Winchester. On this tr; & there is a dwelling house
and par' of the land is cleared, the remainder is finely ii
timbered. p
No. 4. —A Lot of Ground.
In the town of Wnodftock, Shanandoah coanty, f '
whereon is erefled a two story house, and other im
provements, and a ten acre lot for the cenvtniency of
said town lot.
No. 5 — 250 Acres.
Situate about two miles from Woodftock. Part of
this trail is m cultivation, is finelytimbertd, and a good
quantity of meadow may be made.
No. 6.—400 Acres.
Situate in Hampshire county, on George Ajides's mill
run, on a branch of the Cafapchon. This trail is finely
timbered, there is good bottom land, which might be
eafilv converted into meadow.
No. 7. —One moiety of 5000 Acres.
Lying on the waters of Hughes's river, in Harrifon
county. This was purchased at one quarter of a dol- -
lar per acre, cilh above 8 years ago.
No. 8—41,900 Acres.
Lying in the counties ot Wythe, Washington, and 1
Grayfon (the greater part in Wythe,) on the waters
of Cripple creck and Fox creek, branches of New Ri
, ver,-and on the south fork of Holftein.
■ No. 9 —10,c00 Acres.
Lyingjin the county of Hardy, on the waters of Great
Cacapion and North Hirer.
The terms of payment will be one third part of the
purchafc money to be paid in hand at the time of ex
ecuting the deed or deeds of conveyance, the remaining
two thirds to be paid in equal inflalments, at 11, 18,
and 24 months thereafter Ifcuriiig those payments by
mortgaging the premises.
Should any person with to purchafc at private sale,
application may he mace to John Holker, Esq. near
Winchester; David Holmes, Esq. of Winchefler • or
by letters, (post paid,) to the subscriber in Philadel
phia, being the owner of (aid lands, who will perfonil
ly attend the sale on the day above-mentioned.
George Meade.
Philadelphia, ad «f November 1796.
diw w&»i MdtA.
To be Sold,
60,400 Acres of Land.
Lying on the river Allegiany, in the county of Nor
' thumberland, in the State of Pennsylvania.
f 400 Acres Land,
In Bald Eagle townlhip, Northumberland county
3 aforefaid.
s 60,000 Acres Land,
, Lying on the waters of the Oconee and Canouchee
- rivers, in the couuty of Washington, in the state of
|' Georgia.
e 174,000 Acres Land,
e Lying on the waters of the Ohopee and Canouchee
rivers, in the county of Montgomery, in the state of
Georgia.
Acres Land,
Lying in Orairgcburgh diflilcT, in the state of South '
Carolina. And,
146,986 Acres Land,
Lying in Charleiton diftriil, in the said state of South
j Carolina.
An Half acre Lot of Grond,
In the town of Richmond, Virginia.
g The above Lands will be fold low. —Apply to
George Meade.
e Philadelphia, sd November, 1796. diww&stf.
D
i The Creditors of Scott and M'Michael,
) formerly merchants of this city, and who failed in the
e year 1763, or 1764, (and from whom the fubferiber pur
e chafed bills of exchange to amount of several hundred
1 pounds sterling, which have lain by him ever since,) are
. requested, evury man or them that is living, to meet at ,
the City-Tavern on Tucfday, the 15th of November next,
at 6 o'clock iu the evening, in order to oblige Charles
e Cox, formerly of this city, now of New-Jersey, and John j
fc) Bayard, formerly of said city, and speaker of the House {
ot Assembly of said state, now of Brunfwick, New-Jersey,
assignees of said Scott & M 4 Michael, to come forward aad
pay ever the monies they have had in their hands belong-
tng to the creditors these 3» or 33 years. Some years a- (
( go the creditors were called together ; Mr. Cox appear
-1 cd in behaJf of himfeK and Mr. Bayard, and alleged tHat {
s were apprehensive they might be brought into trou-
1 ble if they parted with the money (which I apprehend is
t some thousands,) as his Britannic Majesty had a debt due
1 him for government bills: it was however agreed by the
1 creditors met, thit the assignees fhoul 1 take the opinion of
e counsel; they did so, and it was that they would be fafe
i in dividing the money among the creditors. I urged Mr. J
- Cox to bring the buiinefs to a final close ; his answer was,
1 it would be but a trifling sum; my reply was, if ever so
s trifling, I would have my proportion of it. It has how-
[ ever iain over.
\ 1 therefore hope the creditors will now come forward v
and oblige the assignees to divide whatever they have, and v
they onght to pay intcrtft too.
George Meade.
1 Philadelphia, id November, 1796. dtijN - n
, '
The creditors of the late Abel James, v
who (lopped payment in 1784, are requested to raett at '
the City-Tavern, on T»efday,Bth November, at 6 o'tlock 1
. in the evening, in order to oblige the aflignees, (John 1
. Field and others) to close their affairs: My demand is a
for a balance due on a returned bill of 10001. fterling,cofts, 11
y damages and interest.
George Meade.
1 Philadelphia, November id, 1793. dtSN. a
The Creditors of Van Vleck and Barton, f
and William Barton, & Co. (who failed in the year 1784)
are sarnefllj requelledto meet at the Cits- IY.on 1 1
Wednesday the 9th November, at 6 o'clock In the evening F
in order to oblige the furviviug assignees, Stephen Austin, i
and Andrew Hodge to close those affairs. John C'hand- '
ler, deceased, who was one of the assignees, once offered v
• to the fubferiber 12/5 in the pound for his debt, which is
1 for a returned bill of 8000 guilders, with costs damages
and interest, and the affigneeshave never paid but s/'m the
pound, though they advertised goods belonging to William
Barton & Co. in the year 1784 or 1785, and allowed e
very creditor the liberty ef buying to the amount of 10/ in
the pound of their debts.
George Meade.
Philadelphia, November 2d, 1796. dtgN. /
The Creditors of Clement Biddle & Co.
are requested to meet at the City-Tavern on Moiiday the (
14th inft.—in order to oblige the assignees to a fettlemcnt
of the n affairs, which have lain over these twelve years : t
the fubferiber's demand is for a returned bill of i,oool. ft«r- c
ling, damages 20 per cent, and interest. f
George Meade. i
1 Philadelphia, 3d November, 1796. dti4N. f
The foregoi'ig advertisements are a good specimen of *
assignees. i could give a further one if it <was necejfarj. *
To be Let, , i
A large cellar, in Walnut-street just above Fourth-Street, that
- is floored with two inch plank, and will hold upwards of i®o
pipes of wine.
Also, a Stable and Coach-bouse, that will hold four hor \
fes and two carriages ; and several (lores i* Fourth Street-— f
Apply to j
f George Meade. i
Who has for sale,
Sj boxes of Castile soap
f Red Lisbon Wine
\ A few pipes of bill of exchange wine
A few barrels ot lrilh mess beef
And a few barrels of ship bread.
j Nov 4- difit.
£ Irish Linens, &c.
Imported per the ships Glafgoiv, from Dublin, Liber
n *J* from Cork, and btig Mentor, from Belfajl,
.. 4-4 and 7-8 Wide IRISH LINENS,
In whole and half boxes,
Assorted from lid. to 4s. sterling—Also 5-4 wide
3 Sheetings, and low priced yarn and worftcd Hose.
s On Hand,
1- 7"8 Wide Lawns.
Diapers and Table-Cloths
A few boxesTickens and Checks
A few bales Flannels
Cork and Belfaft Sail Cloth, Nos. I and 6
25 Boxes } r 6 by 8,
10 Ditto \ Window Glass, 7 by 9,
J Ditto 3 C 8 by 10.
? ffhe above mentioned Goods are all entitled to the
' drawback, and will be disposed of by the package on
y terms.
James, Clibborn & Englilh,
lT No. 6, N~Front-ftreet.
)r loth mo. 19th. dtf
1 To be Sold,
The Time of a smart, active Negro Lad,
Who has Eleven years to serve.
Enquire at No. 58, -South Front street.
Q&aber 18. j
Just Landing,
At South Jlreet-<wharf, from on loaril the f!Ap Sedg
ley, Captain Hodge, from St. Pctrrjburg, ,
The following Goods:
Ruflia Sail Duct, firft quality.
Do. Sheeting do.
f Do. Diaper.
Do. Huckaback.
Do. Crafli.
e Do. Mou'd Candles, 4, J and 6,gto" the lb. of the
f , English size.
1 Do. White Candle Tallow.
Do- White So:p in small boxes.
Do. Cordage of fine yarn. t
X Ravens Duck.
liinglafs, Ift and jand fort.
Korfe Hair uncurled.
Ruflia Bar Iron.
1 ' Do. Hoop Iron.
Do. Nail Rods.
10 Tons Oakum and Junk.
1 St. Feterfburg Clean Hemp.
For Sale by
Philips, Cramoad, & Go.
October 12.
Valuable Real Estate,
For fah at Auction by Casper Th 'tell, of Hamburg,
late the property of fames and IVilliam Kinnear. 1
For sale by public am9ion,oQ the 9th day of November
' next ensuing, at the sign of Gen. Walhington, Wood's
tavern, borough of Reading, Berks county, the fo!l«w
---| ing real ellate,viz.
No 1 A of land containing 465 acres with
* °" J. jl allowance for roads, called the Purchase,
fiuated in Brunfwick towcihip, Berks county, patented,
' 18th o! Jan. 1788. This trait, of which about 15 acres '
' are cleared, is of good foil, situated on the or '
Little Schuylkill, well watered and timbered, on which is
erefled a good log dwelling house and stable.
' No. 2. A trad; of unimproved knd, containing 284 a-
with allowance, &c. called Hopewell, patented 28th
O(Sober, 1790, situated in Brunfwick township, Berks '
county, foil good. '
No. 3. A trait of unimproved land, containing 376 a- \
cres with allowance, &c. called Hillfburg, patented 28th
O&ober 1790, situation, &c. as No, 2. '
' No, 4. A trait «funimproved land, containing 388 a- 1
cres, with allowance, &c. patented aßth of October, 17 84, 1
situation, &c. as No. 2 and 3.
No. j. A tradt of land, containing 268 acres, and 52
perches, with allowance, &c. situated in Brunfwick town
ship, Berks county, on Tomagua, or little Schuylkill, 5
miles above the town of Hamburg,on which is ere&ed a
finifhed two story fquaredlog dwelling house, 27 ■
| by 35, within the distance of JOO perchesfrem a forge,
v.*h the advantage of a ferry and public house; these ad- t
vantages render this trail very valuable. a
No 16. A town lot in Hamburg, enclosed with a poll t
and rail, or board fence, containing in front, 6effect, and
in depth xße feet, fubjett to a ground rent of 7/6 per an
num.
No. 17. A town lot in Hamburg, enclosed asno 16,t0
which it adjoins, being of the fame dimensions, and fubjeft
to the fame ground rent,on which is ere&ed a log stable,
16 by it feet
I No. 18. A town lot in Hamburg, adjoining to No 17,
j a corner lot, fronting on Main and Schuylkill streets, di
i menfions the fame as No. 16 and 17, above defcribtd, fub
je&to io/o per annum ground rent. On this lot is er
efledalarge 2 story dwelling house, 45 feet front on Main
lireet, by 34 feet in depth on Schuylkill street, pleasantly
and advantageously situated for a store.
N. B. The above described three town lots will be fold
separately or together, as may belt fu t the purchasers.
Conditions of sale—One third of the purchase money
j to be paid to the subscribers.or either of them in Philadel- g
, phia, at or bef are the expiration of one month frem the j
day of sale, when a deed of conveyance will be executed ;
' the rtfiduepayableinaequilpayments, at 6 and 12 months t
with interest, the payment whereof to be secured by mort- £
' gage on the premises.
! James Henderfon, ~l A ssign etsto J c
Frederick Montmollin, I the estate of t
Thomas Rogers, fJsmes&Wm.
Jtfeph D. Drinker, J Kinnear.
1 September 26. m &
Loft Last Evening,
At Rickctts's Amphitheatre, (fappofed to be taken by
some villain out of a gentleman's pocket)
A red Morocco-Lesither POCKET-BOOK,
Containing about 185 dollars in banknotes; three notes
of hand of Rofs and Simfon, No. 304, 305 and 306, da
ted 12th last Augufl, payable 60 days after date, to the
order of Paul Siemen, together for 5150 dollars; an order .
of Mrs. Ann lVacpherfon, from Paul Siemen, on Lach- t
lin Mac Neal, Esq. at Port-au-Prince, for 100 dollars; be- f
fides several letters and papers of no life but to the proprie- I
tor. The notes of hand and order are without endorse- j
r ment. EIGHTY DOLLARS REWARD is offered to (
any person who will dilcover and secure the thief, and ;
FORTY DOLLARS for only bringing the above menti- ]
oned notes and papers at No. 129, corner of Front and ]
Mulberry streets. d OA. 11. 1
; Mr. ricketts ~
BEGS leave to inform the Ladies and Gentlemen, that j
he will open his RIDING SCHOOL on the ift of Nov. ;
' for the inftruciion of Ladies and Gentlemen in the ele- '
gant accomplilhmcnt of riding and managing their horses !
with ease to themselves.
'Mr. Ricketts has well trained Horses for the accom
modation of Ladie3 and Gentlemen for exercise, to pay '
monthly. Pupils to pay by the season, or by the lefTon. 1
Horses trained to the road or field. *
OtSober 24. d
THIS DAT PUBLISHED,
By J. ORMROD, No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet,
(Price la 1-2 Cents)
The President's Address
To the People of the United States,
Announcing his intention of retiring from public life
» at the expiration of the present constitutional term ef
presidency.
: September 20. 4
STOP THE THIEVES !!!
LAST Wednesday Evening, October 19, between the
heursofyand loo'clock, the bed room of Mr Ricketts in
O'Eller's hotel was entered, either by means of falfe key?,
orat the window, by some villain or villains, who must haye
been acquainted wi h the situation of the house (as the door
was found locked after they had committed the theft) who
took away from amongst several trunks, ONE which con
tained a valuable part of Mr. Riclcett's property, but of which
c he is not yet able to ascertain the contents particularly. As
□ ter bringing the fa id trunk away, and emptying it of up
wards of a thousand dollars in cash and bank notes, the vil
lains left it behind the circus, during the time that the per
formances-of the evening were goinor forward*
It is earnestly requeued, that all tavern-keepers on the flage
roads, and the ferry houles, as well as all civil officers, may
be watchful in securing suspicious persons, who may have a
redundanee of calh, which their appearance would by no
means bespeak them to be poflefled of.
> One Hundred Dollars Reward
Will be given for securing the thief or thieves, md a fur -
ther reward for focurirg them with the ptopexiv.
oa ««- ' d
Samuel Richardet
f- t> ESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
, Merchants that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in the
city of Philadelphia.
The Subfcriprion Room will be furnifhed with all the
daily paperi published in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos
'.on, Baltimore, together with thole of the principal corr.-
mercial cities of Europe—They will be regularly filed
and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
Ie Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
of French Liquors; together with the usual refrefhments
will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
thechoiceft of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the mofl
approved Malt Liquors from London and other breweries.
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and earlieil
produ&ions of the Season.
Large and small Parties, or Cngle Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or at
hours mod convenient to themselves:—a cold Coition is
regularly kept for conveniency, the Bill of Fare to be had
at ths bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifhed, acd
. the utmoii attention paid to cleanliness, and every other
requisite.
£/■ Samuel Richakdet will behappyto receive, and
execute the commands of his FricnJs, and the Public at
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledge*.
'» himfelf that nothing on his part fliali be wanting to prc
fcrve that patronage with which he has been so distinguish-
T ingly honored.
■ 5 Philadelphia, April 19. mwf
- TO BE S£)LD,
ij A LOT of GRSUND, 164 feet 7 inches front onSonth
Water-Greet, and bounding on the Delaware about the
I fame width, with a wharf thereon in good repair. On the
, s ' north fide adjoining I'un alley, i> a large and well built
r dwelling heafe, and counting howfe, cemmunicatißg with
s each other, 47 feet wide, a fpacio is kitchen, and other
! well planned accommodations, and below these a flack of
_ stores, 61 feet in front, by 93 feet in length, built a few
■ t years ago; on the remainder of the lot on Water-street,'
3 there are two ancient brick dwellings, a Cooper's fliop, Jc
a f.-ame store, row occupied by Mr. Alexander Tod, and
_ bounds adjoining the stores of the heirs of the late Jofcph
, Wharton. It will be better described by drafts and p an»
of the ground, and buildings, to be seen at JOHN WLL
. C<JCK5's tempting house, on the prenrtes, and of wl?o» x
particnlars of fa!« may be obtained.
The whole will be fold together, or detached as may
j best suit the purchaser. Nov. 5 §
j Washington Canal Lottery,
' NI.
: "VTTHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorised
» V V the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand*
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
t a Cartal through the City of Washington, frosi th Po; '
'• tomacto theEaftern Branch Haruout.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz -r Prize of 20,000 dollars, 10,000
I ditto 10,000 10,000
' 7 last drfwn ">
1 Tickets, each j ,0 35,c00
' 6 ditto X,ooo 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,000
' to ditto 100 1,000
5J ditto jo *,750 v
5750 ditto *' It 69,008
To be raised for the Canal, 16,150
5850 P*izes, 1.75/300
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
175°0 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
The Cemmifiioners hav» taken the Securities re
■ Jjiurcil by tl.« ■foufdid fortiu. pmwiOlal pj; i ijut df
the prizes.
' The drawing ef this Lottery wiH commence, without
I delay, as soon as thr Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after th*
) drawing is finifhed, shall be considered as relinquished for
f the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed j NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, o/D.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of Washington, Feb. 11. §
Treasury Department,
September 28, 1796.
NOTICE is hereby given, that prcpofals will be re
ceived at the office of the Secretary of the Treasury
until the expiration of the firft day of March next en
suing, for the supply of all rations which may he required
for the use of the United Statas, from the firft day of
; 1797, to the thirty-firft day of May, 1798, both
days inclusive, at the places and within the diftridts hure
-1 after mentioned, viz. At Ofwego; at Niagara; at
• Pjefque Isle; at Sandufky Lake, and 011 Sandufky
i River ; at Detroit ;at Michilimackicac; at Fort-t 1 rapk
lin; at Pittsburgh ; at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hamilton;
- at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-JcfTerfon; at Grenville; at
Picque Town and Loramies Store; at Fort Adams; at
t Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance; at any place below Fort
Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Erie; at Fort
| Steuben ; at Fort Maflac ; at any place from Fort Mafias
' to the south boundary of the United States on the river
Miffifippi; at Fort Knox ;at Ouiatanon.
If supplies fha.ll be required for any posts or places net
mentioned in this notice, all such fapplies shall be fur
nifhed at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
posts before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed on
between the' United States and the Contractor.
The rations to be supplied are to consist of the fol
lowing articles, viz.
One pound two ounces of bread or flour.
One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounces 'of
pork or bacon. '
c Half a gill of rum, brandy cr whiskey.
One quart and half a pint of fait.")
Two quarts of Vinegar, ( hundred
e Two pounds ot Soap, f r
)f One pound of Candies, j
The rations are to be furnifhed in such quantities, as that
there shall at all times during the said term, be fufficient
_ for the consumption of the troops at Michilimackinac, De
troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, for the term of fix months in
advance, and at cach of the other posts, for the term of
at lead three months in advance, i a good aad wiiolelbaie
provifions,if the fame stall be required. It is to be un
derstood, that the Contractor is to be at the ex»ence and
)r rifle of ifluirgthe fuppli«s to the troops at each post, and
o that all loftes sustained by the depredations of an enemy, or
■)- by means of the troops of the United States, fliali be paid
h for at the price of the articks captured or deitroyed, on
f- the depositions of two or more persons of creditable cha
-- rasters, and the Certificate of a commiiHoncd officer, af
-- certaiemg the circumstances of the loss, and the amouat
r ~ of ths ai tides for which compensation (ball be
OLW OLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
•y . ■
a _ t »p "■ ■ >■■■ 11
10 PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO,
119 —
r- f
CHESNK T-S TREtT,
' [Price Fight Dollars per Annum.}