>
of the HtHttttS States, &. Philadelphia Dally Advertiser.
' • ' A
HUMBU* *?* 6 -3 THURSDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 8, 1796. [Volume X.
• —— 1 1 ' 1 - . . -
For Sale,
j The Ship A D EL A ID E,
• JwjMvf- 0/ A r fw Tori. g
I *Nv Lying at the fubfcr jber's whlrf—bur
-4 210 tons, (he is a stout well built
f vefT.l, was built by the day for a Honfe
m New York,under the infpeflion of a oerfon concerned _
in her—has been or.ly one wpee to London and Char It f
,,in and fails fatter than any vessel out of the port o . New- bel
York. Apply to WILLIAM BELL. j«
.... V„ ...pivedbv the hid fI»P fr° m Charleft >n - -as;
P ,*
Dec. 6. ' '
FOR CHARTER,
The fine Philadelphia, cedar and live y] -
ship favorite, a
John Thompson, Matter
" , , .n , ,t,r-e hundred and ten tons,about one
Earthen by regtfter thr.e hunar .
ye r old, completely P£ q{ In
ready to receive a cargo an P , „ ,- j vj ,
•world. She is afaft failing, vfffel, and (lands A. N. a.
Lloyds. A)foj the fi n e Philadelphia, cedar and
live oak built
Ship AMIABLE, w
Dan. C. Tillinghajl, Mafer. pi.
Burthen by regifler two hundred and
fifty-three tons? jflf graved. She is fonr year, old, and, -
of the port of
;
J No . I2> NorthThird-ftreet.
, eo»w c
Noremb#r 29. — — ( (
"?£ For Sli s° and Killihegs,
The American Ship Nancy,
Cuthbert Riggs, matter.
Will fail with all convenient speed. lor ( J
w y]i am Bell i ,
Who lias for sale,
. Trunks Printed Cottons, well affortftl
3 Bales Irifti Flannels, 2nd i box«.s Lmeii#
Madeira Winel Indigo ■ Kiiffia Matts. I,
A few barrels Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
OATMEAL, Sec.
_c fnwftr *-
November it, I79°>
1 — C
h—=* For Madeira, l
The ship Concord, *
§.g- Capt. John Ihomfon. For freight
pafiage apply on board, or to
P Peter Blight; J
Who has for sale, a quantity of ft
Branny, in pipes
Whi'ing and Copperas, in hcgflieads
Old Hoek, in cases
I>«tch Cream-Cheese, in boxci
Window Glass
Eranfy Gin-Cases x
Giaft Ware, in boxes
Painters' Colours, ground m oil
Sweet Oil, in cafc« of a dozen bottles eaeh
Hailenuts, in sacks. Nov. 11. rim
FOR SALE,
THE SHI. 1 ' MART,
■IffiiWqiWt SAMUi'L PARKER, Mastfk,
I Two hundred tons burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
Tf the MARY is not fold in a few days, flie will take
freight for Hamburg. Applv as above.
October ,1. ' «'
._i : — -
For Charter,
The ship JO H N ]' UL KELT,
Ayr ft Stocklky, Mailer.
exce " ent live-oak and cedar built
(hip, of about 3000 barrels burthen, Ap
' > J £ JF< Robert Wain.
_K«. _ ' d " -
for Sale, or Charter,
The Ship DIJNA,
Samuel Pile, Master,'
Burthen 105 47*95 tons register, Jitiilt in .
Philadelphia in the year 1792, of livs OiK
and red cedar, and was sheathed J3 months ago, (he
has just had a corrrplent out-fit, and rryiy be sent to sea
Bt* verv trifling expt-in r.
For terms 'pplv to
phi lip Nicklin -J Co. 1
irbo have for fait on board said wjel,
17 calks of fine yelk iv p3-it.
■i) boxes and il bundles of Uatea.
1 box ink stands and note presses.
14 bales of fail canvass.
And on handy
.Imperial
and, f TEAS.
Souchong ) „ . ~
40,000 pieces Mankeenfl of the f.rft <J«ality.
19 tubs Q^iekPlver.
a cherts Bandanno handkerehie•?.
A fe-v chsfti Manchefte- goods well J.Tortfl fn Co
durovs, thicksets, Ginghams, Mutlinets, Dinutits.&c.
3 boxes black fewingfiik.
IHO crates Queens ware well auorten.
10 tons Ihtet lead.
•"Nai'.s assorted, flat andft "p points.
London Particular, 1 Madeira Wine in pipes
London Market, f a , l( j hogih ads.
New-York Market," J .
♦o pi.ies and 10 hogtheads Teneriffc wine.
8 tiercel Snake Root.
136 log, Mahogany.
Nov 7. —
To be Rented,
A Large Vault and Cellar,
That will contain aoo pipes, f' : " ate a l n .', >t
h-tween Eottrth aad Fif.h-ftrects. Also a CO.XI
-I T SE nnd STABLE, with St ills for five horiel.
N. P. CtVocls Stored by the month.
XT 1 mvrfu I
November 30.
For Sale,
By the Subfcribers—ln PF.NN-STREET,
65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
Imported by the Edg!e. .
. WILLINGS & FRANdS.
[ Nov. <0 w&f
THE Parmedhip of JONATHAN HARVEY & Co. W
being this day Difiolved hy mutual consent, thi>fe in lebt
ed to-said firm arc requested to make speedy payment to
Jaciathan I-|arVk*y, who i» autio 'i;' i to receive the Uim • ;
those dcrhnnds wilTpleafe til yi pj
•accwipr'" hi lor fetiJ'.t.c'h'c <
TkJ[ Bu/trifft will be Continued
By Jonathan Harvey,
c AT KfS STORK _Y(>. 106, 5 FRONT-STREET;
. . Where he has for S.ile,
A general aOTortment of Dry Goods. !
November 14, 1796. Jim
I Just Arrived,
e the (hip C<ip f ain Morton, from Havre
t de-Grare, and for sale by —
Isaac Snowden, jun. No. 141,
SOUTH SECOND STREET,
An invoice of Gloves of virions kinds, Men's h
White Silk Hnfc, BUck and White Laces, and a few
pieces of Black Silk. .
d December 2. §xv.
if PATENT SHOT. a
THE general confumptiow of Patent Shot having Keen
ir> preventev.l the hig;h price it has hitherto been fold
at, the Proprietors take this method of informing the
Public that they may in future<be applied with that arti
cle at the prices a* common Uy ordering their
- Correfponpents to a-pply to Walkers, Maltbt & Co.
London. Nov 9 \vfm4w
Just Arrived,
In the brigs Twinl and gambler, a quantity of
" Choice St. Croix SUGAR and RUM, d
and about
150,000 Weight of Fine Green COFFEE.
For Sale l»y
fames Yard.
•November 14. dx 1
Imported in the late arrivals from Europe u:.d the
IVeJI- Indies,
Holland Gin, in pipes
Choice St. Croix Sugar and Rum
_ M avtjnique Molalfiis, it. .hogllieadi
Choice old Lilbon Wine., in pipes and quarter-caiks
London Particular & London Market Madeira Wine,
in pipes, half-pipes and qiiarter-ci(ks
Malmsey Madeira Wine, in pipes and quarter-ca(ks
Feneriffe Win", in pipes
Rriflii & F'etniOi Sheeting and Ravens Duck, in cases
Wjndow Glass, 3 by 10. ia boles
Coffee Mills and Straw Knives, in cad*
Miil Saws and Cross-cut Saws, in boxes
Also, on biind,
A few chests of Rohea Tei; Jeiuits Bark ; AfTafcs
tida arid Tapioca ; and a few bales of ColT.es,
Da fiat, OuTaht, BarT\t'aar.-i and M'iflin' Handkrjr.-
chiefs, liid a complete as >rtnirnt «•' 5-4 »ud 6-4
Bjulting Cloth*.
Por Sale by
Pragers Ss 5 Co.
m Oflobcr 10 d»wm&tham
Just Landing,
At South freet wharf, from on Bodid the fh'P Sttlg
ley, Captain Hodge, from St. P-Jtrflurg,
' The following" Goods :
Raffia Sail Deck, firit qualify.
Do. SUcuiug tic.
l,ke Do. Diaper.
Do. Huckaback.
Do Crash.
Do. Mould Candles, 4, 5 ar.J 6, to the lb. of the
English fiztf.
Do. V/hite Cand'te Tallow.
' Do- White Sosp in finair boxes.
Do. of fine y^fu.
II 1 feaverw Duck.
lCuglafs, Ift and aad fort.
Horse Hair uncurlcd.
Ruflia Bar Iron.
Do. Hoop Iron.
—~ Do. Nail Rods.
10 Tons Oakum and y
Clean Hetnp.
For tfale by
Philips, Crainond, & Go.
in - Oflobrr 12. 5
(he For Sale,
C 1 By Jehu HofLngPioorth, & Co.
»5 hlids. Wed-India Run., 3d aad 4th proof,
5 liarrels best Indigo, and,
1 A few thousand bu(h«ls of Turk s lfland fait.
oa 17.
Samuel Richardet
Respectfully informs ihe Gentlemen
> Merchants, that he ha 6 this day opened the CI i Y
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE ill the
city of Philadeh hia.
The iubferiprion Room vrill be furnifhed with all the
daily papers published in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos
ton, Baltimore, together Avith thole of the principal com
mercial cmt< of Europe—They will be rugularly filed
and none prruii' ted to be taken away on any account.
Tea, Coffee, 3cupts, Jellies, IceCreams, and a variety
0 f french Liqnors; together with the usual refreihtnents,
will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
the choicest of W uies, Spirituous Liquors, and the most
approved Malt Liquors knmLondon and other breweries.
The Larder will with the prime and carlicft
productions of the Season.
Large and small Parties, or fingleGentlemen, may be
accommodated with Breakftifts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hours moil conv. nie"nt to themselves—a cold Coliation is
regularly ktpt for conveniency, tht Billof Fare to be had
at tha bar. .
The I.odging Rooms will be completely furrnfhed, and
— the utmost attention paidto cleanliness, and every other
requifitc.
■rr Richardet wilfbchappy to receive, anrt
execute the commands of hia Friends, and the Public at
nut lar<*c; and with gratitude for their favours, he piedgts
;H- himfelf that nothing on his part (hallbe wanting topre-
I'crvc that patronage with whioli he hat been so dillinguilh
| [pjrly honored.
4 j Philadelphia, April 19.
Wm. Holdernesse, No. 76,
HIGH-STK EET, A f (
Has received by the late arrivals,'
A ifcll SeleSed AisoaTMKNT of
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and ah
Haberdashery Good's S
Which be wili fell, wholesale and retail, on the very
lowed tersns ; %
jfmortgft which are
Sf«rnf degant4-4 and ;-8 Chintzes and CottoES, new
pattern* ' •' No
Ditto rufiiitnre ditto
Ditto Dimity
Tamboyred, Book, and Ja ©net Mullins «j, n(
Ditto, in Gold and Silver
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine r\
Mantua* of tht firft qualitypj n nt' t
1 Silk and Cotton HoJlery
ps the firft quality, assorted
lrifli Linens, very fine, and Table Linens
Marfeillds and Cotton Counterpanes
Rofc Blankets afTorted—Sec. Sec.
06toHer 26. d
1
Irish Linens, &c.
tic*
Imported per the Jhips Glafgo-J.>, frim Dublin, Liber
tj, frstu Cork, and bug Men. or, from Betfajt, ]
4-4 and 7-8 Wide IRISH LINENS, ;
In whole and half boxes,
Assorted from xjd tp 4«. sterling—A Ho 5-4 wide '
Sheetings, and low pljced vara and Worfied Hole. '
1 On Hand,
• 7'B Wide Lawns.
Dupers and Table-C'.«ths nill
A tew botes Tickens and Checks
r A few bales Flannels
Cork and 3elfa(l Sail Cloth, Nos. I and 6
25 Botes r 6 by 8,
10 Ditto > Window GlaftJ -j 7 by 9,
5 Ditto J C S by 10.
The above inenfioned Goods are all entitled to tbtf
drawback, ai d Vi ill be disposed of by the package 011
' reafof-j^j^terms.
ST, James, Clibborn & English, p
Hoyb, N. Froat-ftreet.
10th mo. 19th. dtf
Best Boston & Nova-Scotia Mackarel,
e F.xccllent Halifa* Salmon in bbls. '
47 bbls. prime Coffee,
Best Boftcn Beef,
. Codfish in hds.
Siiermnceti Candle*,
s Spermaceti, and ? qj j H'
, Northern j " . m
Mould atv3 dipt, tallow candies, of a superior —
qualiiy.
A few bnxes excellent brown soap, • v •
s 6 Bales of Corks.
40 Pipes excellent Ltfbn-i Witft.
A few fatks of Feathers.
A few bales Jndia Miiflini.
FOR SALE BT
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co. o;
r- Oilober 31. d (j
Fashionable W» istcoating.
GEORGE DjIsON, No. 2&
SOUTH Till RD-STREET,
H.is reebved per the Diana, from I,or,dot,
Clouded and firiped S :itii(h Swanldown
>" Clouded Erminats .au ! MoU&ins
Striped do. asd dm
Figured Manillas
Scarlet figured Enninets - 1
Printed Florinetts
Do. and Caffmeres
. Superfine printed Quilfings, newest pattern!
Also, per i'.iff rent arrivals,
he A large a °d general assortment of Dry
Goods,
SukaWe to the present and approaching season. F
November 5. dtf a
—
SALT PETRI
A large quantity of Dnutile-Refined Salt Petre for j
sale at No. 15, South Third-llreet. <
November j. '
.' 5
Old London particidar Madeira Wine, \
Landing from on board the barque Eagle, Capt. Bates,
and for sale by ROBERT ANDREWS,
No. 86, Seuth Wharves. ■
November 19. eodtf
Imported from London & Liverpool,
EARTHEN WARE, in crates and hog(head», well
aCorted
' wine Bottles in hampers j
Window Glass of all iires
Two eases of stationary
en One cheil of yellow Jesuits Bark
Two cases of Roll Arnctta
A small confignrn.ent of Rose Blankets, Flanneli,
liaises, Broad-cloths, Coatings, Plain*, &c.
Paints of various colors. I
oI " Baikct fait in hoglheads.
Also on hand,
Madeira wine, very old, in pipes, hoglhcads and I
;ty quarter cases I
its, Holland gin in pipes, firft quality
Anchors of cliffci ent sizes • :
ith A few trunk« of ladies French fhoei assorted
oft Silk nan keen, tcc.
es - Likewile an afiortment of Dutch goods, consisting of
. Gfhaber; s, ticklenbergs,bed-tiekf, il: ipe s, checks.
Morlaix linen, platihas, ra?en»dink, Britanaias, &c*
be And for sale by the package only by
i " Thomas & John Ketland.
U( 1 Vv'aliiUt-flreet Wharf.
No*. 15. * ot^
iCd — ; '
k " Washington Lottery.
at The 4ld and 43d days' dr?wing of the Wa{hino+on
gts Lottery, No. 2, are received at the office No. 134, irUr
ire- where tickets may be examined.
iih- N. B. Intormation given where titkstiki all the other
rtteri«s may be procured.
December 1, 1796.
j RAISINS.
A few an'! Bores of Excellent Frerti RAISINS,
just received, and for sale by
Joseph A nth my Sc Co.
Also a new u l-a inch CABLE, 120 fathams long.
December 5. jtf
For Sale,
By George Defchamps, No. 91,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotta Prime Salmon, in -barrels
and half barrels
Ditto Herring a«.l MackareW^
Vnoaked Herring in barrels and kepi
Ditto Salmon, by the dozxn or (ingle ot»e
Dry Codfifh, from one to fifty kfentarts
Fine aHd coarse Silt
Nova-Scotia and ,French Platter of Paris, in the stone
and ground, for manure and ftucco-woik
December I. {tf
Cheap French China.
THE fubferibers finding it impossible to supply their
store with any mare China from France, the price*
being too immoderate in the manufactories, give no
tice that thej' will fell at prime toll the remaining
{tack on hand, consisting of
DefTert Setts,
( Tea-Table Setts
Separate Cups and Saucers
1 Groupcs and Figures
Alabaster Vases
Lonking Glades, in gilt framesj
Besides India Japan'd Toilet Defkis Chairs, Tables
nad Quadrille Boxes. PASQUIEU &. Co.
No. 91, South Second-ftieet.
December sth. tts
CONSTITUTIONS.
This D(iy is Pubtifhed,
i And to be Sold by W. WOODHOUSE, No. 6,
South Front-street.
rat
Conflitutions of the United States,
ACCORDING TO
The L itejl Amendments.
To which are annexed,
The Declaration of Independence,
AND
The Federal Constitution,
With the Amendments thereto.
This Edition contains the late Constitutions of New-
H'amplhire, Kentucky, and Tennefiee, not in anv for
mer one. Nov. 26.
A ROBBERY.
v 0 —
Three Hundred Dollars Reward.
WHEREAS the Stores as the fubferibers, situate near
Walnut-ilreet wharf, were, in the night of Saturday 'he
26th infl. broke open, and robbed of n variety of arti
cles, contained in two chests, (which were also forced
open) and of which the following ascertained, viz.
No. 17 One piece London printed muflinet, 38 1-2 yd*
.1 One ditto ditto 27 3-4
a One ditto fine M-irfeillss Quilting 15
3 Three ditto ditto French Sftch do. 42 J-t
4 Fivfc ditto ditto MaiTeilles Quihing 77 3-4
6 Two »io. ManchefW print Quilting 25 3.4
8 One ditto ditto Dimities 23 1-1
9 Two dittt) ditto MuAinet 46 1-4
10 Four ditto ditto ditto ICO
13 One ditto clouded (Iripe fine Q-Tilling 23
15 One ditto Corded Dimity - 26
lb Four ditto ditto ditto 102 1-2
One ditto white Jeanett H ,
Wo. s One ditto half ell clouded Nankeen 23
4 One ditto ditto Fancy ditto sa
11 One ditto half-yard olive 1 hickfett sj
ix Two ditto ditto olive ditto 47
13 'i'%o ditto ditto mud ditto 46
14 One ditto ditto olive ditto a 4
ry 16 Two ditvo ditto bottle ditto 44
A reward of one hundred and fifty dollars will lie
paid for theretu n bf the goods, and in proportion for
any part of them ; and the further sum of one hun-
dreJ and fifty dollars to any person or persons wli®
lhall prosecute to convi&ion the perpetrators of the
robbery.
An iron crow bar, with which the door was forced,
for pointed at one end, and marked witb the letters P- F.
on the other end, was left in the (lore, by the villain*
committing the robbery ; who are supposed to have
gone off by water as a boat was taken tbe fame night
from a neighbouring wharf, and was left fattened to *
» lhaliop at Almond street wharf.
*•- ' PHILIP NICKLIN y Co.
Nov. _ _ _____ || 6.
Baltimore Office of Discount and Deposit,
2 November, 1796.
300 Dollars Reward,
l ' e " FOR apprehending and securing m jail PETER
NOUCHET, a hand'ome-faced French Weft-Indian,
for Counterfeiting a Check on this Office. He is not
more than 20 years of age, upwards of fix feet high,
flout limbed, round (houldered, black hair, dark com
plexioned, with large black eyes and eye-brows j he
has but little beard, and that chiefly on his upper lip ;
> his teeth have been lately filed, and particularly one oif
his eye teeth has been half filed ess; he speaks Englifli
but badly and with some appeiranee of fluttering**—
he is supposed to be yet concealed in this town or its
vicinity, but as he may escape, the different printers in
ind the United States are requested to pubiifh this adver
tifenient. DAVID HARRIS, Cashier.
N. B. All matters of sea vetl'cls or packets are
at their peril to conceal of take him away.
\
of Dancing.
MR. FRANCIS of the New-Theatre, in conjunction
&c» with Mr. BYKN, late Baliet-mafter, and principal dan
cer of C6vent-Garden Theatre, now of the New-Theatrc
—will open an Acad.-my at Mr. Oellers Hotel, on Tucf
d»y, December 13, where th«y propose to teach in the
moll new and approved methods, dancing in its various
ufeful and ornamental branches.
" Mr. Byrn's recent attention to the dances of London
and Paris will enable him to complete this branch of
education in his scholars in the most finifhed style.
on favorite Scotch reels will alio engage their particular
lax- attention.
For farther particulars enquire of Meflrs. Frall.i*
th er and Byrn, No. 70, north Eighth-flreet.
* Private tuition as usual.
I November 30* mw&fNew Theatre. -
\j
On FRIDAY EVENING, December 9,
Will be presented, a TRAGEDY, called
JJ MACBETH. J
Macbeth, Mr. Cooper,
(Front Covent-Garden Theatre, o
being his jirft appearance on this,Jlage.) [ (
Duncan, ' Me. L'FJlrange,
Malcolm, Mr. Fox. e
• Donalbaine, Master Warrell.
Macduff Mr. More ton.
Tianquo, Mr. Warren. ''
Lenox, Mi;. Worrell, Jiin. C
Siw'ard, Mr. 'Morris. t
Seyton, Mr. Darliy, jun.
Dojftor, Mr. Warrell. }
.Mefienger, Mr. Mitchell.
Lady Macbeth, Mrs. Morris.
, . y Gentle/tvoman, fe Miss Oldfield.
Hecate, Mr. Darley.
First Witch, Mr. Wignell. t
Second Witch, Mr. Francis. t
Third'W,itch, Mr. Harwood.
With tho -ordinal Music and Accompaniments, by
Matthew Locke.
The Vocal parts by Meflrs. Darley, jun. Mitchell,
War nil, Warrell, jun. Rliflett, mrs. IVarrell, mrs.
Oldmixon, mrs.. Harvey, mrs'. Glllingham, mrs. Doc
tor,. mrs. Mechtler, inrs. VEJlrahge, miss Milbourne,
.<■ L'EJlrange, &c.
With new Dreues and Decorations.
To which will be added,
A COMIC OPERA, in a arts, called
The Prize,
, Or, 2. 5. 3. 8.
Doctor Lenitive, Mr. Hariuood.
Mr. Heartwell, Mr. Fox,
Mr. Caddy, Mr. Warrell. ]
Label, Mr. Francis.
Boy, Master Warrell.
Juba, Miss Mllbourne.
>■■ ' Mn. Caddy, Mrs. VEJlrange
Caroline, Mrs. Oldmixon. 1
* * On Monday the FAIR PENITENT,,and .
WHO'S THE DUPE.
Bos, One Dollar, twenty-five cents. Pit, one Dollar.
And Gallery, half a dollar.
Tickets to'be had at K, &P. Rice's Book-store,
No. 59 High-flreet, and at the Office adjoining the
eatre. <r
Places for the Bajpes tc> be'taken at the Office in the
front of the theatre, ffjStii 10 till 1 o'clock, and from
10 till 4 on the day|_or»fierformance.
The Doors of'-the Theatre will open at 5, and the <
Curtain rife precifeiy at S o v clock. ,
fIFAT RES PUBLIC A! ■ ]
(| ; —-I,
OLD THEATRE. \
THIS EVENING, Thursday, December 8,
Signior FALCON I
Will Exhibit his 1
Natural and Pkilofopbical Experiments; I
Among several new experiments, too tedious,to
enumerate, there will be *
The.Aftoniihing Magnetism, 1
The virtue of which the Performer will communi- '
cafe to the distance of twelve feet, both by light and 1
feeling. I
A. curious and philnfopliical difcovcry of lighting j
a Candle with a Card, Knife, or Sword, without (
any Fire. ,
After a Nfw Exhibition of philofophlcal experi
ments, which the exhibitor omits to mention, with a 1
view to surprise the company, will be a representation ]
of that Terror of Nature, i
A Thunder-storm at Sea.
In which will be seen the swelling of the sea,
and the waves rolling with incredible impetuosity ; 1
the flcy wonderfully covered with clouds ; the natural
appearance of hail, with its concomitant noise, and :
a Stti{> in Distress, which after a lonjj struggle is dif- •
mailed am} goes down. The manoeuvring l of the j
veflel in this dreadfiil Creation will not only excite j
admiration in the fpl&ators in general but to every j
feafaring person ■ pre(eitt>;\fcho rsuli acknowledge the j '
whole calamitous scene td'bjj exceedingly natural, ; '
and the greatest piece of ingenuity of the kind ever
exhibited in this part of the worltJ—Ail to be aeeom
panied with THUNDER and LIGHTNING, so ,
near a resemblance as to aftonilh the company.
After the storm will follow an appe?.ranDe of all ! '
kinds of filh, and the result of thelofs of the velfel— ;
■which the exhibitor is Confident will give entire fatif
faflion and a perfect idea of a Shipwreck, to such <
persons as have never seen any thing' of the kind. 11
To conclude with j
The appearance of a Young.Lady,
Who will dance a.complete Hornpipe, in a beauti
ful saloon, equal to any Dancing-Maiter. ,
» * Tickets to be had at Mr. sex* door
to-the theatre—Boxes may be taken at the fame place.
No money received'it the'door. *
Ten Dollars Reward.
XO3T, last evenihg, a frtiall packet of French Pa 1
T2S.S, among others, an account due to the Citizen .
Martinet, and a power of attorney to the Citizen i
TiiibiAOlt. Whoever has fouiid the fame, and will
lesvc it with the Printer, or with Citizen Thibeaiilt, No.
2 ci. Scuth Second-street, ihali have the above reward.
Deccnibur 7. *3
WILLIAM SHEAFF,
No. 168, HIGH-STREET.
Has for Sale, Wholes/le and Retail,
MADEIRA WINE, of ift qv.ality,
Uld Sherry, I.ilbuD, and Port Wines,
Cognac Brandy,
Jamaica Spirits,
Wine bitters and
Claret in cases.
Also fcr sale,
A few barrels cf exte'lleftt Beef.
December 7. d* _
Genteel Boarding and Lodging,
For Two Gentlemen, may be had at No. 6J, south
Third-street, opposite the New Bank—Where a few j 1
Gentlemen may be accommodated in the belt man- .
ne r with Boarding only.
December j. *4 j
WANTED,
A WOMAN of good character, to undertake the !
rare of. a child, and who would occasionally do other :
work in a family. Apply at No. 109, Spruce-street.
sth December. f j
FOIL THE GAZETTE OF UNITED STATES.
Mr. Fenno, ]
A STRANGER lately arrived from Europe,
j has taken the liberty to address you on a fubjeft of 1
great importance to all emigrants to these United ,
States, and to reqnell a candid anftver from some 1
one of your ingenious cowefpondents, to the sol- 1
lowing queries, viz. _ ;
How ought a stranger to demean himfelf in mix
ed companies, where politics are the only tfcpic ? 1
Would a German or an Englishman be more or )
less efleemed for speaking favourably of his owa |
-country, and of its culloms, when questioned on ,
these fubjeAs ? _ 1
I am induced to a(k these questions,
heard, that several foreigners, now in refpe£iable <
offices, have been promoted for their affedied con- 1
tempt of their native countries. As this is con , |
traiy to all genaral rule 3 and maxims, I do not vvifh. 1
to, " befoul my own nejl," until lam confident that* ]
this is the true line to promotion in America. j
I offer these fcrnples,that my advifermaybe under ■
no mistake refpefting my original opinions on the ;
peints in question. Can it be expetltd, that an ]
individual, who vilifies his native country, and his 1
nearest connections and re'.atiops, will be true to
any other ? May not those persons, who have facri
fieed their original social compaftsto foreign views
in a foreign country, be more liable to make a se
cond factilke, if a second profpeft of gain.Uiould
ever present itfelf, than if they had continued ever .
true to the pared social principles ?
If a foreign emissary should attempt to carfy aji'
important point, by intrigue or bribery, would
not single out thofeperfons as his inltruments, who'
having already got rid of all loca ties and confci
entious scruples, have of course less reluctance to
repeat their iins, than others have to c»mmence
finning ?
I know it may be said as well of a man as of a
woman, that " to deliberate on a qutjlion of virtue,
is to be loft but as this is entirely my own con
cern, I beg that my respondent may con£ne him
felf to modern expediency, rather than to oldfajh
ioned morality.
GERMANL^jsX,:
F«r the Gaiette of the United States.
Mr. Fbnno, i
SIR,
THE attack upon the conduct of the managers
of the New-Theatre, relative to the advanced price
of box and pit tickets, which appeared in yeur pa
per of Monday last, under the signature of Honest
Policy ; is equally illiberal and unjufh Illiberal
from the arguments adduced againit the advance,
and unjust from the personal attack made upon the
managers, who certainly cannst be aecufed of any
want of industry or exertion, in placing the theatri
cal entertainmants of this city, upon a rtfpe&able
footing.
The firft aflertion of your correspondent is cer
tainly taken for granted. It is yet to be ascertain
ed,- whether the policy of the managers, be »equal
ly unpleasant as it <was unexpeSed." The managers
have " relied not upon the general rage for none/ty,"
but " upon the liberality tf the citizens of Philadel
phia and tormy own part I believe, tbtt the ex
ercife of that liberality, may yet contraiiff the
confident prediction above quoted. His next re
mark, deserves the feverell aninpadverfien ; such a
phraf? as " encroachments upon our purses," can be 1
deserved only by impofters and swindlers. I be- 1
lieve that the inhabitants of this city will not join
with your correspondent, in the application of it,
to the coHdu&ors of the entertainments of the New-
Theatre.
Your correfpondeßt next remarks, that, " fup
pbfing that the funds of the Theatre are in the li
tuation represented, the plan of the managers is in
efficient." On that head they may be mistaken, buti
even admitting that his ideas are just, their errbr!
! does not call for fucu I«ud and malignant terms of
reprehension. >
1 I beg leave only to observe, that if the Theatrt
; has been moitothan large enough to contain all whi
j have hitherto attended it ; the disbursements necef
fary to detorate and illuminate such an cxtenfive
building mult be proportionably great. This cir
cumstance theretore furnilbes a plea for con
j dad. The epithet of '< aUfur«J," which,hi Applied
' by your correspondent to the « increase of price
•without an increase of entertainment," would be with
more jultice applied to his own.remaik. Jf I ap.
prebend his meaning rightly, he would wifWihe ma
hagers to struggle through their nrefent dfficultics,
' j with nothing more than fub'fifteocev If a
taidft increasing diibuifcments they are nofipcrmtt
ted to raise their prices, theatrical entertainments
must soon come ta a period. No man cait be ex-|
{ petted to devote his time, his talents, 'and his irge-l
, | nuity, to any particular profefljoii, without a chancel
. ; of remuneration proportioned to the demands whicli
may be made upon him. The h'beral and enlighj
e»ed will not htfitate to acknowledge that a mail
who gives his whole lime and attention to any mc-|
chanical employment, or to any liberal art, has a
claim up6n his fellow-citizens, for funds not onlyl
adequate to his present support, but aj/oto the conJ
tingencies of futurity. The divire, .the lawyer,
the physician, the merchant, exped, and with' jus'
tice expedt, that they arc not to consume the belt
years of their life, in toil and exertion, without the
profpedt of ease and compensation in their old
Neither of these charafteis exerts more affidjiity in
the service of mankind, than they did formerly;
yet, unlets theirfees and emoluments, were adapted 11
to the encreafing exigencies of the times, each of
these proftffions must soon be deserted.
Upon the comparative merit of the former or
( preftnt company, it belongs to the public to de
j cide. _ I have been often delighted vriih the repre- P
. ( foliations of preceding seasons, and I do not ex. I
I f>eft to be less entertained during the present. With-1
, refpedt to your correspondent's remarks upon the I
j theatrical arrangements of the last season, I have ]
i only to observe that they betray equal illiberal,'ty \
and equal ig»orance, with the reft of his letter. I f
do not believe that the managers would for a mo- (
meat htfitate to acknowledge their gratitude for
/
r > *
tli* support that they received ; ln» surely it is a '•
reflexion upon the taste of our citizens, to suppose '
that their liberality would have been extended to |
performances " deferring of nothing bit contempt.'
They were supported by most of the performers 1
whom yourcorrefpondeflt mentions in another part
of his letter, with apparent approbation ; and that
taste mud hare bean faftidious indeed, that could
not have derived entertainment from their talents
and exertions. v
He addresses his remarks to the lovers of the /Ira- 1
ma to them alfa I would addrefsthis reply. Wlien
they contemplate the improvement of theatrical ex- i
hibitiotis in the New-Thcatrc, the elegance of the
decorations, the encreafing salaries of a company, ;
refpe&able for numbers and for talents, and the ex 1
pence of constantly maintaining a large and well dif '
ciplined band ; when they recoHeft that for all
these improvements, no greater eompenf»tion has
been hitherto alked, than what was demanded for !
the entertainments of the Old-Theatre,, they will J
furi-ly not accuse the managers of fliameful and *n
jujl impvfitions, on account of their moderate ad- 1
vanec. The theatrical entertainments of this city
are at present upsri a most refpe&able footing. 1 1
hope that the liberality of our citizens, will attend 1
the exertions of the managers, and invite tliem to ]
ftill.fuither improvement.
impartial.
BOSTON, November 27. ,
By captain Blanchard, who arrived on Sunday, j
we received London papers to October 18, four
days later than were before in Ameri.a.
\ WAR OPERATIONS.
LONDON, October 18.
Another mail from Hamburgh arrived yellerday,
being the .last but one of the three wli'oii were due.
The rroit important intelligence vtfhich it contains
is the narrative of the ikirmifhes which general Mo
reau has had tofuftain in his retreat. Wc have no
accurate accouat, howrfyif, of his lofles, or even
6f his true position. In one paper it is said he has ,
loft 16,000 men ; in others, That his losses has been
very infignificant ; and every other article refpe#t- '
ing the march of the armies, is equally doubtful.— '
Ulm, in one letter, is said to have been surrendered °
by capitulation ; in another, that it was abandoned
by the French in the night. From all these con- 1
tradiftory rumours it appears, that nothing precise
or authentic was known to the journalifls, on the [
fubjedt of this retreat} and we fee only that Mo- '
reau is in full march, with such a start of his ,pur
suers, as toafcertain hiaratreat with the major part 1
of his army ; a circumllancc which the great zea
lots in the prosecution of the war thought it im
puffiblc that he should effect.
The Vienna Gazette contains a number of de
tails from Italy, in whkh we are given to under
stand, that Wurmfer's (ituation was much lefa '
disastrous than the French papers announced it to
be. Private letters from Bremen, Rate various re
ports of a defeat fuffered by Buonaparte ; in one
he is said to be killed, in another to be a prisoner t (
but the whole of the story, in all its versions, has j
so little character of probability, as to be entitled
tp no credit.
The pofi.ion of general Bournonville is so strong.
and his army is so much reinforced, that the Jo.vuf- j
nals fay he is beginning hostile operations; but no
movement has as yet taken place. The archduke
wzsj on the id inllant, at Graben.—Morn. Chron. |
j; Yesterday morning arrived a courier from fir W.
Milton, at Naples, and also the second of the
'/three mails that wete due frem Hamburg, with let
ters from thence of the 7th inft.
It will be recollected, that the last letters from ,
general Buonaparte vere dated the 16th of Sep- ]
tember, and only gave an account of the operations
of his army to the 15th ult. They merely refpes- s
ted the events that had taken place near Manntua,
but did not allude to any thing that had passed in
I the Tyrolefe, or in the vicinity of Trente. The
information contained in the Vienna Court Gazette (
I only regards general Wurmfer's operations to the J
1 15th ; thrre is of courfc no mention made of the
battle of St. George, which happened ofi the 141*1
near the gates of Mantua ; & the result of which,
according to the French general's account, forced c
general Wurmfer to take refuge in that fartrefs, f
which he expected would capitulate in a few days.
Buonaparte has not, however, fuccecded in Jits ex- t
pa&atiom. • (
According to the advir w from Naples it appears, t
that field-marlhall YVurtnfer made forties from Man- ]
tua on the 21ft, 22d, and 23d ult and attacked <
and defeated the French on each of those days near }
I Duo Callclli and Roverbella, between Mantui and
Verona, to which latter place Buonapartehad fall,
en back on the 26th. These events evidently (hew, r
that the Austrian army in and near Mantua,, is by ,
no means in that diftteffed iituatioo i« which Bu- ]
onaparte's official report aflertei it to he : and that f
we may (till hop<S to receive eie long, some fatisfac
tory news from that part of the theatre ot war. t
The proifrefs of general Davidovich in the Ty- 1
Iroleft, and his march to Trente, noticed in the Vi- c
enna Court Gazette, con-firms our former Conjec
tures, that Buanapartc may be hemmed in between j
that general's army and that of Wurmfer. This J
.event appears by no means improbable, when we
tfonfider, that the Austrian aimy in th<f Tyrolefe (
isconitantly reinforced by frefh troops from the em- |
peror's hereditary dominions, who are sent for- t
ward i„ waggons, in order to expedite their pro- ,
grefs. We may hope that this army will foot, be t
in a llate lo ad offenfively ; and to retake the whole" t
eounti yof Tyrol The Times.
T A whole week has elapsed without our receiving a
t P rln,cd newf P a P er Fro™ France,—and it is pe*. f
jjjfecuy understood that the French government has
Mopped the intercourse. Whether this is done to
fcrevent our hearing any account of the misfortunes
Pwhieli they apprehend on the Rhine ; or to keen
lfrom the knowledge of the French.as communication
1 rcc, procal, the preparations of our embafTy; wc f
Know not, but in either cafe it augurs ill to the a
Juccefs of the negociation. .
I I'orif they are unwilling to permit the commu
nication to be open,-they will hardly fuffer lord c
IMalmelbury to remain in France ; since a degree of r
||ntercourfe rauft takt place while he refidee as our f:
'A* l .§"" : '*. r K
. accredited miuifler in Paris. We have no do- >t\
but that Mr. Pitt will furnifh them with a tp-K j
, preteucc for fending ijim back, re ufeSa. ' ' /
Three hundred horses are at Calais, appointed '
; tc elcort Lord Malmeibury and his suite i n fafctyj
}o Paris. ' If
«&£gbDovrr, Oa. 16. t
1 From Constantinople weTarn, thai a very i m t'
, porrant change hps taken place in the ministry oft
the Porte. The ReisEffcndi, who had on all o
cafions exerted himfelf for the inlerefts of the/
French republic, has been difaijffed in the mod dif/
graceful manner.
. iis Spanish ambafTador's furniture and effedls
, are all for fate. The Spanish consul and charge
d'affaires, M, Las Htras, have taken their paffaae
on board the neutral ship Zecluft, Capt.
| The ambassador will follow, if his health permits. '
The Spanish consul took bis departure from En.
gland oa Tuesday l a st. The ambassador lIHI re .
mains for inltrudlions from his court.
By the Corunna mail of Friday, it appears that
the [ 1,000 men stipulated for by the late treaty
with France, were on their march for Italy, to re
inforce the army-os .Buonaparte ; a-nd a fleet, was
about to fail towards Leghsrn and Genoa, for the
protedHonof the Spanish againtt the British cruif
crs.
THE THEATRES OF WAR
In Europe, arrest mofl forcibly t(ie ttention ;
an(J to state with minuteness eitVier operations or
leffes, is deemed an arduous taflc Dhere. Its diffi
culty is augmented on the United States. It j s no t
the interest, and it cannot be the dury of Amen
cans, to mifreprcfent European eventgrjd they
ought to rejoice in none other than those which tend
to re ft ore peace and happiness to mankind.,
/
Of General Moreau's Army, &c. ■
STU I GARD, (Suabia) September 2?.
The rear-guard of general ia said to be
at Ulm, (about 15 leagues from this) ; a continual
ftri*g is heard. The Auftriati troops are at Nord
lingen. A corps of this army haw
gen, and VUlengen, where Gen. Petrafch's com
mands. — [Those two last places are between Ulin
and the Rhine, on the ryat to Strasbourg, and in
front of the Black Fort ft.] : Twelve pieces of can
non, and fonr howi .?., have been taken by the pea
sants near Zell, with 60 chasseurs. They
destined froirythe Ahine for Moreau's army h
is said the peasants in the Brifgaw are rigng en rinfje.
They are well treated by Petrafch, and are to have
medals and money.
ULM, September 2-8.
Gen. Nauendorff began to bombard this place,
the 26th, but yeilerday the French left it, and re
tired to Lepheim. The Austrian body is at Ellin
gen, (further up the Danube.)
RATISBON, (Bavaria) September 27.
Our army pufhrs forward, La- Tour's Head
quarters at Weflenhoni—Nauendrrrff's near UII.I,
the day before yeftcrday-t-Moreau in his retreat
bends towards the Brifgaw. " Thus is the luprib
plan of unitiug the three republican armies, in the
centtc of Germany, iltogether fruftrated."
The Austrian official accounts fay, that t)ie
FrenohrweMr'defmed i»e»r Ifrtey, the 2Bth, atftfToft
1200 men ; and that La Tour had taken 1500
prisoners, a military chert and 3000 barrels of pow
der. The peasants very generally join the Autlri
an corps.
BISCHOFFSHEIM, September 23.
The garrisons of Kehl and Strafbouig are to be
reinforccd by 10,000 men from 'the Intenor of
France. *
[The above accounts are from German sources,
extrafled from the London Morning Chronicle/]
Of the Armies on the Lower Rhine.
T'he accounts are confufed. The French under
Gen. Bournonville were advancing towards ths
Lahn ; after being reinforced to 30,000 men.
HAGUE, oaober t.
Couriers from General Bournonvi'ltc succeed each
other, aHd demand money, forage and pfovtfioni
for the army of the Safflbre and Meufe. Our go
vernment has already sent hiro-6<>iO®o- flnr.-nsj-sr>nl
the rnotf adtive measures are taking to fend hitn
cattle, flour, &c. Several waggons with nfceiit
ries are already un thelroad. Il is said Genital
Bournonville has defitcd the Directory to appoint
Genetfil Pichegru to tlie command of the army in
his stead.
Oftober4.
" The day before yefterdoy the Portuguese mi
nister Chevalier d'Ararjo, set out for P-cris to ne
gotiate a peace for Portugal, attended by M. de
Britto, secretary of legation, who had brought him
his final inftru&ioris. .
" A anoft alarming desertion prevails affiotiA
those Dutch troops who are on their march to join j
(he army of the Sambre and Meufe. 1 !it nomber
of the deserters amounts already to 800 men.
" Our trade is losing every day more and more,
as the English bloclf up our ports, and "foreign
merchants fear to remit goods to this conntrjr.
uln the course of la 0: week 700 woikrne.i were
discharged from the dock-yards at Am'erdam.
Rotterdam, Dordteclft, and other piace?, have (">
litioned the Convention to revoke the decree i*hich
prohibits the importation of English goods. Ine
petitioner* (late, among other cbfri vations, th-tj
they, for their own part, could remove their manu-J
fadtories to other xronutiies, but that in this «ej
a great many families whgm they had been rn.'• t'M
support, would be thiowitinto the utmofl muer;. J
VIENNA,. September 24.
The States of Hungary, in their afleably» k« vC -
andertakea to furnifh the Sovereign with as great a
proportion of men, horse's; money, and provisions,
as they arc capable of procuring. In the courfa 0-
a few weeks they will hold a formal Diet.
The newsof the arrival of the Ruffian army
our frontiers i 3 confirmed, but no use wi.l 'i y ti
Itnaii; of it; it m?.y for some time to ceme be
Cdcred as ao imperial corps of reserve.I ■: , . *
Another loan on notes, bearing 5 per eent. inter
est isotdeied to be levied on the Hereditary ftatcs, wa
' for the military services of the year 1797. The th<
Imoerial LetUrs Patent, issued for that purpose, he
conuin the following introduction :
■< Whereas notwithftandmg all our cares and all tat
©ur efforts, we still find ourselves under the mod
difagrceable neixffity of oppofiirg very nnraerou. at
armies to the avowed designs of the enemy, whose
maintenance and other incidental and vatt expences,
cannot be Mely defrayed out of the ordinary re
venues of the state, See-"
The Court cf London has sent three millions no
sterling, which have already been drawn from several C u
banking houses. <?f
It is in agitation at present, to lend Gen. Mack an
to the army in Italy Eighteen battalions of troops «d
have already-been voluntarily raised by the Honga- lal
rians, and sent to the armies. have offered j m
10 raise eighteen battalions' more f*r the fame pur- ' 0 f
pose.
Within these few days 9000 Groats and 3000 1 th
recruits have passed our neighbourhood, mollly in ra
waggous, to join Geneials Nauandorff and Lal our. I w;
Similar confi erable reinforcements are marching to p l
our army in Tyrol. The Vienna corps of volun-! m
teers is alfo'organizing with the greatest speed, and of
the officers have been for the greater part already en
appointed. Our taylors have made the uniforms in
for this corps gratis. The a.rehduchefs Christiana in
and her conform Duke Albert, of Saxe Tefchen, w:
hare given another voluntary contribution of eighty i dt
thousand florins towards the expences of the war. I»nc
VIENNA, (cap. of Germany) Sept. 28. qi
Within these few days, 9000 Croats, and 3000 ly
■recruits have passed here for La Tout's army.—
Volunteers are embodying, and contributions are ! m
generally making. Hungary furnifhes 40,000 men. ki
BRITISH HOUSE OF COMMONS. 't
Monday, O&ober 17. rc
Mr. Hobart brought up the report of the Com hi
mittec of Supply. tl
The resolutions, that 12C,o«o seamen be employ- |„
'«Afortfe&-&» service for the year 1797, at 41. per fc
man per month, were read and agreed to. u
The House agreed to go into a committee of the q
whole house on Wednesday next, to consider fur
ther of afupjily to be granted to his majesty, and
of ways and means for raifmg the fupplifcs. tl
Philadelphia, 1
—_ p
THURSDAY "EVENING, DECEMBER 8, 1796.
Ci
T.lsflors in New Hampshire—Governor Gilmm, o
Oliver Peabodv, Ebeneztr Tljompfon, Timothy Far. f
r ;r, Benjamin Bellow, and Timothy Walker.
Yederday be\n(r the day pppointed for the meet- 11
ing as the Legislature connmonweath, a 0
number ot the members of both houses affcmbled c
at the State-house at three o'clock, P. M. when =
the Senate formed a quorum. Of the House of
RepriTentative 56 members attended; hut the re
turns of the election frtm several counties not being
rec.eirtd. no bufiuefs was tranfaded, and the mem- °
' bess rejourned till three o'clock in the afternoon. »
The house of representatives of this state, yes
terday chose George Latimer, Esq. their speaker, "
and proceeded to qualify its members. This day 1
is fixed updn for chofing a clerk, sergeant at aims, F
and door-keeper.
The ftnate also qualified its members, and being '
organized and ready to proceed to business, appoin- (
trd a committee of two members to announce the (
, ft me to the house of representatives, which was
accordingly done. _ _ ,
Both botifes adjourned to this morning at ten
o'clock.
Yesterday Roeert Hare, Efq; was elected t
President of the Senate of this Commonwealth. I
CONGRESS of TH* UNITED STATES. '
house of representativfs. *
Tutfdai, December 6, 1796. I
The speaker informed the hrnife that as there
v/ere several returns of new elections come to hand, 1
it ws» receffary that a committee of elections (hould (
(be appointed. On motion, a committee of seven 1
members was accordingly formed.
On motion of Mr. Macon, a committee of revt
fal of un-fini(i:ed business, ccmfifting of three mem
bers, was appointed. _ „
A me-Tage from the Senate, informing the Houle
that a quorum of their body were assembled, _ and
ready to proceed to business. having been received,
a K'folution to the following trffeft was agreed to.
" Rsfolved, that a joint committee of the two
houses be appointed to wait upon the President of <
the United Slates, to inform him that a quorum
of the two houses are met, and ready to receive
any communication he may be pleased to make to
them.''
A was received from the Senate, inform
ing the House, that they concurred in the resolu
tion which they had entered into, and had appoint
ed a committee accordingly.
Mr. W. Smith said, that an afl had'heen passed
for promulgating the lawsof the United States.—
It was desirable that that a & should include the
laws of the present session, so as to complete the
whole of the law. fourth Congress, and of
the present Presidency. A bill was brought 10 to
this tffed the lad. session, which was agreed to jn
the Senate, but negatived in this House, as like,y
to affect the contrad which had been made for print
ing. He had made inquiries on the fubjefl, and
believed there was no difficulty in the way of its ac
complement, He therefore moved a refulution to
the following effect :
" Resolved, that a committee be appointed to
bring in a bill to amend the ift for promulgating
the lawsof the United States ' ,
Agreed, and a committee of three mcmbeis ap
pointed.
On motion of Mr. Bradbury, a resolution was a
greed to, clerk of the House to
cause every member to IVe served with three newlpa
p-re, such as he Ihould chufe.
J
* an<3 jomT.itttJ to goal. All the parti- 1
tulars we eould are, that one of the accom- Ar
plices had turned date's evidence, and conftfled,
that thecheft was put into a batteau, and carried
near the fort, where it wat broken open, with an
ax, rifled of its contents, and then thrown into the '
water.
Mr. M'Caufl.ind has as y«t only recovered 300 I
dollars of his money ; but from information which yy
he received, expects to recover a conliderable sum
more.
From a correspondent.
It is but juftiee to declare, that the gentleman
traveller, alluded to in the account given of the L
dreadful fire, which happened on Sunday last, by ]
whose exertions and advice, the (heij adjoining the —
Fountain inn was saved from that devouring ele
ment, was Mr. Francis Charlton, of "York- 1'
town, Virginia. The mode fuggrfted by that gen
tletnen, of covering the (Tied with wet blankets, t
had the desired effefi, and hv which the flames were
prevented communicating with the adjoining build
ings. Perhaps not left than half the town of Bal- yy
timore owes its present fafety to the advice and ac
tive conduA ef Mr. Charlton.
a—, an(
Mrs. Grattan refpecflfully informs the fubferibers ta
to the
Ladies' Concert,
That the firft will be 011 Thursday the 12nd of
December, and Mrs. Grattan takes the liberty of re
queftirg the fubferibers to fend for their tickets any coi
' day alter Thursday the 15th, at No 39, N. Sixth qu
• street.
Mrs. Grattin begs leave t# inform the Ladies and
1 Gentlemen of the City, that the fubfeription-book is
. at her house, No. 39, North Sixth-flreet, for the re<-
. eeption of those names who with to honor her with
j their Commands. A fubfeription for eight nights ;
sixteen dollars, including a Gentleman and Ladies'
1 (Tickets, both transferable. Half fubferiptions eight jjj
" dollars, including one ticket. Single ticket two dol- ac
1 lars. be
- December 7. jiw in
; EZE KIEL HALL of
HAS REMOVED his Compting-Uoom to No. 42, ta
' Water-flreet, where he has for fa!e or
' Boston Rum, Beef & Mackarel. ™
December 8, $ ot
• Philadelphia and Lancaster Turnpike jv
Road Company.
j A Meeting of the Stockholders for the Election of
a President, Managers, and other officers, will be
he'd at the Company's office on Monday the 9th Jan.
y. next, at 10 o'clock. '
v By the Borrd.
s WM. GOVETT, Sec'ry. m
e December 8, 1796. lawti j}J.dt9 h j,
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal. ° 4
X — B
Tho Stockholders are hereby notified, that the ar.- ' a
,r tmal Eleilion for Officers for the er.fuing year, will b
1* be held at the Company's office, near the Bank of the * c
United Stares, on the lirll Monday in January next, d
at 10 o'clock, A. M. 2
By the Board of Mar * rs.
K'M. MOOk- SMITH, Sec'ry. j?
1". Pbilatleiphia, Dec 1, '
s A Genteel House.
d FOR SAI.E, anew, convenient, three-firry HOUSE,
j. situate in fifth, near £priicer(lrcet. PoJ&ilion may be
jc had in two months, when it will be fihifhed in a neat £
. modern ftyie. For terms apply at No. 109, Spruce- •.
• street, or 109, So. Water-fin et. c
December 8. fx
lr TO SE' S O,L D, f !
A Lot of Ground in Spruce-street,
r . Twenty-eight feet front, and 140 feet deep, with t
r the Buildings thereon eretfted coniifting of two Houses. tl
This estate, whieh is opposite Mr. Bingham's Gar-
den, is do. of every incumbrance, and pofleffion
can be given in two or three months. S
'd For further particulars, and terms, apply to
i- WM. CRAMOND.
as Dec. 5. ' §1 j
" A Manufactory FOR SALE.
:n A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufaflory, situate S
in a convenient part ot the city ; the works almost new, r
r- on an entirely original conftiu&ion, and built of the best
V g materials, and mav be let to" work immediately. Pcrfons a
■r whowifhto purchase, are requested to apply at No 273, c
South Second Street. September 13. t t f ti
g. : =
For Sale, !,
By J. WARDER, PARKER & Co. <
An Invoice of Cordage, t
Confining of different sizes, from 12 inch cables down '
to rope of 2 inches, of different lengths: Imported in *
the (hip Swift, from Hull, and entitled to drawback.
\ Sept. 27 __ _ dtf t
I Bank of North America. \
ne ! THE STOCKHOLDERS are hereby notified that an >
et j election for twelve Directors for the ciifuir.g year will be I 1
held at the Bank on Monday the 9th of January at ten t
/' o'clock. 2
; 3 - RICHARD WELLS, Cashier. 1
Oft SATURDAY EVENING, the 10th Dectniber, at
iat 6 o'clock, a s the Merchant's Goffee-Houfe, will be
II fold, the following
nt iHoufes, Lots, and Meadow Ground :
lie f TWO neat w«U finiftedthree story brick bdufes, 16 i-»
on Jj feet frout, with convenient kitchens, north fide market
lillfi between Seventh and Eighth-llrcets Each house Jias the '
J r ■ privilege of an alley. The lots are 150 feet in depth. ]
W Otie two story brick h»if& in Zane Street, commonly '
called Sugar-alley ; the hoiife is 16 1-1 feet front on said
J alley, -with a goo» kitchen. The lot is 9c feet in depth. 5
te J Oae vacaut lot adjoining the said houic in Zane-flreet,
of,* 16 1-1 feet front and 90 sett deep, at the emi of 90 feet
] er the feid lol{ widens to 33 feet and runs back to the Market
street lots 111 feet.
e " One two story brick house ahd kitch n in Zane-ftreet,
16 1-1 feet front, The lot 45 feet in l epth. ■
ys, One other lot fituatrd at the diftance 1 at 9a feet from the
of east fide of Eighth street, containing ml: ngth east and weft 1
40 feet, and in breadth north aniiiouth »0 feet, fubj«£t to
a yearly ground rent of 40S.
0r I? I-2 acres (according to the original deed) of ehoice
f nicadow ground, with, a wharf on :hi river Delaware,
Paflyunk township, late the estate of the widow Parker,
rm Three acres and 6 perches of meadov/ ground, itVjPal
,Lo fyunk tewrfhip. <
„ '■ Any, ptrfotr inclinable to treat sot the above property at
I 3 private sale is requeued to enquire cf George Cooper,
corner of market and Fourth streets, foutb ilUe.
by Nov. «9. dtf.
' In the Press,
And will bf published on Friday next, by J. Crmeod,
No. 41, Chcfnut Street, and HkNky Schweitziii,
85, Race-Street, (printed elegantly on American
wove paper, in a very neat and small size for the
pocktt,)
Price, neatly bound, 3-Bths of a dollar,
Columbia's Legacy ;
OR,
WASHINGTON'S ADDRESS TO THE PEO
PLE OF THE UNITED STATES.
* T» whiw* 13 added,
His fpcech to Congre.s at their present Scffion.
An ofiavo edition of the President's fpeeeh, wdl also
be publilbcd immediately,
By J. O RM R O D.
December 7. at
For Sale at this 'jffttf,-
Twenty-fix Letters, upon into
retting fuhjedls,
Rcfpefting the Revolution of Avierica ;
Written in Holland in the Year 1780,
By bis Excellency JOHN AD -IMS,
While he was so e Minifler Plenipotentiary from the
United States of America, for negociating a Peace,
and a Treaty of Commerce, with Great-Britain.—
A few copies of the above pamphlet are yet on hand,
and may be had at the office of the Gazette of the United
, States, No. 119, Chefnut-ftreet.
Dee. 5. 56
WANT E D~
- As Cook, in a private frjjiily,
A YOUNG WOMAN who can produce good re
-1 commendations of an unexceptionable cbaratSer. En
-1 quire of the Printer.
November 17. $tf
! FOR SALE,
A valuable Plantation,
1 IN Frederick County, Virginia, bounding nearly
, miles on the river Shenandoah, between Afhby s Gap
and Snicker's Ferry ; 66 miles from Alexandria, and the
1 like distance from the Federal City. It contains 1076
acres, 6co of which are cleared, the reftdue finely lim
bered ; the whole Limoftoneor River Bottom ; abounding
in fine streams and springs ; above So acres on the bank
of the river may be watered at pieafure. Ir is capable
of being divided into Lots of 100 acres, with water in
each, which renders it peculiarly convenient for grazing
or culture. Its situation for Health or elegant improve
ment is not to be surpassed in any inland country, and if
deemed too large for one Farm, may be divided into two
or three smaller ones, uniting in common advantages.—
There is now eredted on the Estate a good Mcrchant-
Mili, with two pair of stones (on a large limeltone spring)
that rents for 466 dollars per ann. and on another never
sailing-spring a good Saw Mill, with a flatter wheel ;
there is plenty of pine timbpr in the neighboring moun
e tain, and a stream fufficient for another Mill with four
pair of stones—these are adjacent to or immediately on
the banks of the river, the navigation whereof is about
being opened into the Potomak and for more than 100
miles above the mills. The other improvements on the
.Estate are a new commodious Barn, the loft o» which is
capable of containing 1500 bulhels; the tSrcfhtfig-floor is
4a fedt square, welJ planked : angther (double) Log
Sarn, with iheds all around : a Distillery, with tsree
1* large Stills, and a Granary above that will cbntain 500
bufliels, well covered with Ciingles, and a stream of vva
ie ter, conduded by troughs, running thro' it; at a small
t distance is a large Cow-HouTe and Stab e, with stalls for
a a cows, paved with stone in the European manner, with
room for above 40 waggon loads of hay : a little further
k a strong ftoue-walled Spring-House, completely iitted
for a* Dairy. The whole of thefc Miils and Buikiings
are at a prftper diftnhce from other, and from he
Dwelling, which consists of threp commodious i tam-
Buildings, with the neceiTary conveniencies. A well en
closed Garden of the fineft foil, with a ilream of water
running thro* it 5 two large Apple Orchards; fcvcral
jC good parries for tuilding and limestone ; a nuit.her of
Out-Houijes for Managers, Blacksmith, Cooper, aad lodg
c" ings for Men of Colour ; —add greatly to the convenien
cies and value of this Eftite.
The Pur chafer, on paying dne haJf the price ag.eed
for, may be accommodated with a conliderable en ii ox
the remainder, and with the Cattle, Korfes Wagons,
Farming Utensils, and Furniture, at a reasonable v;:lua
:h tion. For particulars, application may be? mdde to
s. the fubferiber on the Eftartf, to Thomas FitzfimoVis in
P , Philadelphia, or Matthias Slough, LancaPier.
in J. Holker.
Srringibnry. igth Prober, 176. la ,
I O BE t> O L U,
A LEASE for ftven years, from the 2 $th March Next, in that
capital and beautiful FARxvl % lalird * -
PROSPEC T-H I L I>,
Situated within one quarter of a mile from.thc Brandywins
" e Mills, and hall a mile from the borougn ot \\ i Itningixn.
w ' dwelling house is built of (lone, two stones i h,
e A genterly 6nilhed, and conuirnfour hands wit rwir.s on
" s a floor, besides an entry, with capital garrets, and c-i: ment
'3' cellars It is generally thought to command trie tno!l a
greeable profpett of the Delaware, frcAn the loutcc ot that
i ivsr to the Caprs. This profpeS rag eatly etnb I ilbcd by
afullvicwof avail bodv o! meadow, through whi the
Chrifliana and Brand* wine creeks are I'een winding i.ibeau*
tilul meanders. Near the house are a Kite cu, a spacious
llone flable and hayloft a barn, a catriag. hnule, mtU
s.n house, &c. and a well of aspuie water as -un on tnr i .„n»
j n nent. ihe garden contains an acre and quarter of Und, a
boundiug with fruit, and particularly with peach irees, of
the very belt kind, brought nom Maryiarid, and in full bear
ing There is, moreover, nn the place, a voung. apple
orchard begining to bear, and fcveral old trees thai produce V.
abundantly, besides chetrv a< d other ornamentaj irees, in
an great numbers. I lie farm coi:iifts t near sixty acre >f lirid,
be loi good quality, and clrar of incumbrances, exc ixes,
:en twenty of which arenow in excellent clover and .tmoiby,
and ten more will be ready tor lowing next taring. re
sidence ot nearly 8 yearj has convinced the fubferiber that
the situation is r«maikablv hcai.lt ' The great poftroad
L from Philadelphia to the Southward runs within teventy
at yards of the house. In a word, the beauties and cunveni
be ence of thi« situation cannot be enumerated man adve. tife
ment, and when examined, will piobably CQmir.ana the at
| . tention of any peife.n who is desirous of living atone ot the
molt elegant crjintry feits on the continent. The pure hafer
triay enter on the premil s nent Ipring, or perhaps, tnis fall,
ket if application be immediatelv made to Doctor NICHOLAS
:he WAY, in Philadelphia, to Dodtoi '.>H J HION, oo ll e
premifcs, or, in his absence, to Mr. GEORGE TRUI . T, in
ily Wilmington.
iid A quantity of excellent Hay, Grain in the ground, some
i Stock, &c. may be had by the purchaser at the time.ot sale.
et, Nov. 7 eodtf
ict Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 313, HIGH-STREET.
:et, GEORGE DAVIS announces to his proteffior.al friend*,
and the Gentlemen of the Law, generally, through th
[he Union, that his late importation of BOGIES is now arrang
'cft rf ady for Sale, from a tingle volume to an emire li
to brary, without any advance upon' his former exceeding low
prices, which forfeveral years pail have i» so diftmguifhed a
manner recommendt j them to notice.
,ICC Printed Catalogues combining the most cxtenfivc collcc
irC ' tion cf the laieft Englifti and Irish Edirions ever imported
f r : into this country, are publilbcd, and will be delivered gtaus
>a *" on application.
' Orders add to G. D. in writiog from any dicta ,cc
fat fhailbe punctually attended to.
>e: *> A number ot > RUNKS io» Sale.
ALSO, TO BE LET,
f. A convenient. LOFT, near Mai ket Street Wbarf.SV/ANN'S,
Ruling School, l>orfe dcadcmy Iff Infirmary,
Adjoining the Public Square, Mtrktt Street.
T. SWANN
I J L ' kRNS his fmcere thanks tofchd'fc gertflemenTsy wfibm
fir has been employed, during h;s refidruce in tbr» City, and
that the faccels ot his effort*, in the numerous,
ate and dangeTous in Hor{«.s, in which he has
eeu coo fulled, together with his moderate charg-.s* will se
cure their futurefav.vs and recnmmendaMnn.
He now begs leave to inform them and the public at large
4. at hi< 'paciou® and commodious prtmfcs. ere&ed for the
parp.ofet above dr-fcrifeed are ope*'for the reception of pupils
0 en) (i jcx, who wifhro beinftrufted in the Art ol Kiding.
f a«d the method of governing then horfel, so as to ride
them wit), eali, <elegante. and fafety—their horses will be
Ca 'V u rx P cc^:l i°ufly broke, f;>r every purpofr, and
made oberimt to the will of the riders ; the natural powers
wfcicti rrc-ftufupin them, will be unfolded by at, casing
ok Ui»j or:r»ity of motion, and givin,: ro that noble animal
»ii tuo r be?u:ies of action vshich providencWm to bounu*
lu.ly iviWeii ou t'-cm. Wk
Aho, at. hi< hofoKal every difor'er to v/hich the horse is
J , 3#>c u 1 t'taitd according to the ru!e& ol art, confii mad
uy repeated experience.
I )e utility oi thr ibovc intliiution has never been qncftion.
n'! U has long bee i wanted in thw city, ever. gentleman's
u m.tnifeft, ai d T. Sw.vkn as the fit ft eftabliiher of
1 .i r rrcnar y» rt v f ? ,, ei»« relies upon ihe fuppott of the
pa lv. (which he ii ever anxious in to enable him to
''i.in to perfect on. The ieaot a fubfcripM'm-for that
's beeu hinted by leve al gentleman, who wish to
J it/mote the indication—the amount of each fubferrp ion to
- i stained bv lervicci tn any of the departments he profefTes,
agreeable to the rate of charges ft a ted i.i his hand bi*H. Such
cnpuon is now open, and the fignatbrcsof many relpeft
gentlemen a'ready tteaipcil. He therefo.e injorms his
thJu and / u and gsrtlemen to whom he has not
rh . r n ° r bc,n * ' Known » { bar he fhal! in a few days take
™ liberty of waiting upon them and foliating their support
** n d protc£hon.
N B. Hoi fes are orope' ly prepared for tnofe Ladies and
Gentlemen who wiih to be infti lifted.
Nyv - 5- tth&f.
~K A NAW A T, ~ .
About the ift of October lad, from the plantation of
Mr. Thomas F. Brooke, (in Prince G,oi-e's oounty) to
whom he waihired, a NEGRp MAN, named
33 years of age; about J feet 8 or p inches high; well
made; of a yel'owi/h complexion ; a little pockmarked: 1
has, when fooken to, rather a down look, and fubm.flive -
tone of voice: this clothes he had beiore he ablcouded <
were of plain, fnch as labouring Ne roes nfiially wear, i
but these he may probably exchange U others : be wiil t
<.olljMs endeavour to pais for a freeman, having, -as I a
' have besn informed, assumed the name of Butler : I have t
r«fon to'believe tha t he went to Balu,u(\re, N fiom whence
be is said to have go.ie to fume part of the Sufquehanr.ah,
•probably with i. view ol gutting to Pem.fylvania. A
reward of Jhirty Dollar. will be given to the person who
tn*y tike him and so secure hint in some jail that I may
get mm again, ta*«y in this slate, iani:Fifty dollars i:
. n ate t if broiight home or secured ill
ttie jail of Prince George's county all reafonablc charges d
b e paid by ALEXR. COVINGTON. f,
Maryland, Pr;ncc George's County, ") „
2nd November, 1796. J iith*t,Scr4w
Lottery .and Broker's Office,
A r o. 64, Svutli SECOND S TREE 7".
TICKETS in the Cunal Lottery, Mo. 2, for Talc—a (v
Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
the late lottery. ,
Check Bcoks kef t for examination and repfterinp, for vv
the City of fc'dihington, No. 2, and Pavtefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—•ir.formation where «
tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn 0I
tickets. A coniplctevlifl: yf all the prizerin the late New-
Port Loag-Wharl, Hotel and Public Schoui Lottery, for —
examination.
Tlie fubfuribcr solicits the application of the public ~
and his friends, who wi/h to purchase or fell Bank Stock, S
Certificates, Bills of '.xchange cr Notes, Mouses, Lantls,
«c. or to obtain money on iepofir of proDcrty
*«* Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
sale at len L)ol!rrs cach, which will be drawn early in
t-he Spring. x fc
Wm. Blackburn.
Phfhdelpbia, Aufufl 18. 1 796. mt h
r I rv c f the United States.
V OT,CE '» hereby given to all persons who are or
X > may be Creditors of t) \ United States, for any funis
Oi the Fu«led Dill, or Steel, Luring a frefent inUrrfi of fix
esnUim per annum. J J J
id, That pttrluant to an Act of Congress passed on the
aStn day of April, 1796, intitlcl an ail additio ito an
*a intituled " An ad making fuither provision ior the
lupport otpubht credit, and for the redentfrton of the
fiUi„ic debt," the faiadebt or stock will be reim'.turfed and
paid iu manner following, to wit. " Firfi, by dividuids I
•• to be made on Ac lall days of March, J unc and Severn- --
bcr for theprefent year, and from the year onethoufand i
« seven hundred and nincty-fev.-n, to the year one thou- ,
• land tight hun r-.-d & eighteen in lufive, ,t th;i rate of _
one and ore half pel centum upon the oririnal capital. ,
«' Secondly, by dividends to be insde on the lafl day of 5
December lor theprefent year, and W the year on, \
« tboufar.d seven hunJred and ninay-ftven. M ihe yenr
one thousand eight hundred and f« vwt een imlnfij, at
« the rase of three and one half per cewmm upon the or.-
" capital; and by a diviW.to be ma eon the last
rL"I " CC V r f" • T«r one tUoufai.d eight hun- Z
ured and eighteen, of such ,um, as wilt be the-i alc •
« Col^d ' f ° r vat
_ 2d. A V diftinaiori between payments on account of / r „
V tlias abcblhed by the eftablilbd i
unent ol the permanent rule of reimburlement abovs dc
cnbed.it has befoni,-■ neceiT-ry to v a -y the fu, 1
powers of attorney ior receiving dividend, ; th. public '
• - C rT£ 'b' 11 the Wlowmg form a
s eitabjifhedlor al po-.v. r 6 of which nty he L
granted alter the due promulgation otihi, notice vrz •"
KNOIV ALL MEN bV THESM PSEiEmx, that Zl
' coi*fiitutr and oppnint C J <
"f . Ky true and lawful At- Sft,
xorney,Jortnt ,nndtn my name, tn ycehv the dividend, rvb :b are „S!
crJbaU be payable wording to Uir, o„ it, (here delcrihing the- drs
flock)/™*,* tn r:y r.nne in tb e Ms of (iiere d ,ferib»ng. the the
books of the Treasury or the 00.-wniffioncr of Loans, the
where the Cock is creaited) f rnm (here „;fort tb- com- M
meneement and expir ition ot tisi.e for which the cower of
*r orne 7 «. t0 ""f i""" ■ 'ST' °'"r«ey or otter- arc
n,n under bun, for that iurpfejo male anif H ,Jtiut e , and to do all of
Iwjulaa, rejuifie/ar tf&iug t!j efrennfe,, hereby ana
confirming all that ~yfa,d Attorney or iiefabjlitute ,hM l a w , ul . J
iy b-, by nnrtvr hereof. J
1h Witness hereof, I lave b*re„M f,t my Hail and Seal tb> Ho
o.ty of in lie tear
Sealed and Delivered
in prefer of, C bcr
BE I T A-7V U that on the & y 9 r
ejore meperfinaUy came "J Co "
•Y" U * " W the clove Utter of attorney to be Co,
it: aft end deed. J
In testimony nuCercof J law UreunU.fit m, Han Und off*. Z!
Ed Staltbe t/«y arjy«, Up ~/n.jaed.
Given und. rmy Hand at Philadelphia, this twen- th"
tieth day of July 1796, pursuant to diredUon,
UomtCe Scerttarj of the Treal'ury
Samuel Meredith, Ian *
. , 'Irtdfircr ,f the VniM Slat.,. if',
.W.tlJ Coe
Le Breton,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Dentist lotlie
King and Royal Family of France, m:-mber of the
10m College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris,
and Keeps a complete aiFortfnmt of eveiy thing necclTary
ou *» to be for the
, h f " Preservation of the Mouih and Teeth.
Patent Mineral Teeth, and Human & Kory Teeth ;
srge Dentrifke in powder; Opiate; excellent Elkir for ]
the fweeten.i.g the mouth ami prc-ferving the teeni —be '
pi's also furn■ fiies Brufnes and foft Sp 'ng,es- '
me, * * p} e j: veJ ; n Chefnut-ftreet, No. 135, abeve '
r, £; Fourth-ftre-t.
I<S. tts
"g Horses taken in,
For the Winter Sea fan,
A"i frd on cVivf:r bay at tbe Snbfi riber. plscp, i»
. j, miles on the Kriltol Road, where good stabling is pro
-11 cd vijsu, auu great carr «ill be tAcu of tbern
IVillium Bell. ■ j
on- *v
ln » s Nov, c
DANCING SCHOOL. ;
to WH.IIAM M'DOUC! AI.I, will open hisfchool on Mon- I
bat day the inft. at ten o'clock in the morning, at his f
10 Flegant hew Bali Rooms, b
|- c '° In Fourth, between Chefnut and Walnut Streets.
jc f| Hmirs of tuition for young ladies, from 10 to 1 o'cloelc j
£1- t n Monday*. Wednesday, and Friday mornings; and for
hi t )'oung gentlemen from 6to 9 o'clock on ths evenings o
lot the Lme days. '
ike In addition to a number of new cotillions, he means to
ort intrbduce a variety of Scotch Reels
Note. Th» fir ft praiftifisg ball to be on Tutfday e
nd veiling, th" firft of November, and to be continued every
Tuel'day, during the lealc%
For term,, &c, enquire at his bouse, N0.134, Market- _
_ flrcet. S.
° l> - 'i ttbf
s o A Short Delay f-'
i; In the Drawing of the Canal Lottery, hi
:!1 In Wafliington city, ha beer unavoidably occafioHt'd
1: by theunforefeeti intervention of Mr. Blodget's I.ettcty wl
i-e —but as the major pait ot the tickets are now disposed di(
-d of, thi. is, to inform the public that the drawing of the Ci- rll
r. nal Lottery will certainly commence without fail, on tbe Tl
iti firfl Monday in January 1797, and those holding tickets, mi
I aa ■ hcrebv requested to fend a statement of those fold, .nki
those on hand. »
NOTLY YOUNG,
». DANIKL C ARROLI., of Duddington,
A OKORQF. WALKe'R, ~
THOMAS LAW,
y JAhfES BARRY, ]J
11 W. M. UUNCANSON.
n rho Printers who gave our advertisements a place in
'' their new {papers, are reqacflcd to give this notice admis
sion, as The remaining tickets are expf<sled te befrton above tha
par, a*d we with adventurers to be timely informed ed
Nav tq6w. di,
Lottery. ' n< ;
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be purchased or —
exchanged for prizes, at the Office, No. >47, Chc'fnut
a street, where a corred Numerical Book is kept for public
" infpef.ion. Also Canal Lottery Tickets for sale er ex- 1
changed for prizes diaww in the Wabiing'on Lottery, of a 1
r which the 42d and 43d days return, arc received;
'• 4'?' 'I'll* Bufmefs of a Broker carricd on a* usual c< "
= V A !.HA»£ in the NEW THEA3RE to be fold >il
11 on reasonable terms. wh
December I. * ttitl bis
r , * — I —— 1 a c
City of Washington. i" : '
; SCHEME of the LdTTKRY, Nb.U,
FOR THE /MHROCEMEHT 0 t THE ,
FEDERAL CITY. —
1 _ A magnificent ) jo,coo & )
/dwelling-house, j 30,0c0, ire 3 • s °* Boo
I ditto 15,000 8i crfb 2 *,'"Ioo 40^c00
1 ditto 15,000 & ca(h 15,000 30,000
I ditto 10,000 3c cafll 10,000 acjeoo ,
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 104000 u c
I ditto 5,000 Si calh 5,000 10,000 ftre
I 1 talli prize of 10,000 FOl
ado. 5,000 each, are - 10,000 1
to do. x,ooo - . 10,000 tize
io do. 500 . . . -,0,000
00 do. 10, . . 10,000 .
aflo do. to . . 10,000
400 do. a? - . 1U(UOO at
I.JOO do. ao . lo.voo ''g^
00 ° do - 10 . 150,000 J
r 6>7j'9 Prizes.
33,261 Blanks.
■<°> 00Q Tickets, at Eight Dollart, 400*000
B. 1 o favour those who may take a «nanti'tr of fnin)
j. lckcts, (heprii Jof 4 s will be the t . »t drawn 1
ticket, and the 3S,ocothe i.ast but one : J«n<
And approved notes, securing payment in either monty a y»
or prm«, m ten days alter drawing, will be received for a,t "'
any number not lelV than 30 tickets. Pad
1 1S lottery will afi'ord an elegant fpeeimen of thepri- Rivt
vate buildings to be ereaed in the City of Wj.;htn«rton— lm »
Iwo beautiful defijr.s are already (el-fled for tbe entire st P
fronts 01, two of the public vr-s; from these prawines pici l
it is proposed toered tw.o centre and fourcorner bnildin"s, f ort
as loon as poinble alter this lottery is fold, and to couvty *>efi
them, wheii complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in Stßu
t>»e mannerd!lcnbed in the scheme for the Hotel Lottfrv. to »
A nett deduction of fiveper tent, will be made to defray Ivilll
«Tli 17 ex !"" lfe ' °, f ptinting, tl* surplus lf
ill be made a part of the fundint«nded for tbeNatianal m, ' lv
UH ;r" ty ' within the city Of WafhiiK. ton. n!^'
Ihe Drawing will commence as fooii as the tickers u re P o! ''
cid off.—l he woney prizes will bepayablf ir »hiriv days
" , "si ; and any pr z« for Whkb fortunate T
ambers aie not produced within twelve month*after tha !ow '
drawing is doled, are to be confined a, given towards O
Uietfmi for the Umverlity ;it being determined to fcrtle c
.he W..ale buhnefs m a year from the e idhnr of the draw-* P or ' ;
■ng and to take up the bonds giver, as ffcurity. H
Ihe teal fectirit.es given for the payment of the Prizes O,
arc held by the Prefidert and two Directors of the Bank' ' T
/Columbia, and are valued at mote than half the a- T
mount ol the lottery. » - e a Q
Iho twenty lour gentlemen who bv arinointment of Tl
d-.c iate Commifftor.ers affiftedin tl« m'auarvnen-of the *•<-,
Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake thTsardious talk fol ''
ber of"thefe h: n bA t aif f,' ;lUb '' C 5 a -m troit
e ri " 1 thefc h»vn)g k".dly accepted, it is hoped that the adva
nends to a National Un.verfity and the other federal ob, at le
jcAs may contmue to favor the dcOgr,. prov
f "■""■t* <•"""<>•' ! t'
L a „_ , , we " as irom Furope, where the tickets r, " c
M". °!in ' thC publ ' C 3XO iff "«d that th« that
d awmg will lpeedily commente, ahd that the care and by n
S^lickeThTr^ 1 / Tf"', ry t0 infur ° " !af<; Jir F° fal ° f for a
.ickets, ha. rendered the <t.„r: fufpeafion indifpenlabU. »''e d
, , SAMUEL BLODGET. rach
fames Weftikr* 7 " th< " Ba " k of Cf >l«nibia ;of cm "
Of John Hopkhis r' P . cter G 'lmau, Boston : afch
Jrry '' J a " d ° f Richa '< l
■ CO
/ .
James M'Alpiu, Taylor,
No. iL South Fourth /treaty
>khe his grateful acknowledgments to his
the Ffieri#* and the Public for ch ir liberal encouragement,
and be t s leave to foliek a continuance of their favors.
fary He Ans on hand an extcr.five afTortment of the
Mojt Fajhimable GOODS,
th. Ami of the bell quality, fuitaMe for the fejjfon.
. At this fho.pGentlemen enn he w'ththe Wft
f 0 * material*, and have them made up ij»the neatest and moil
e FafliionnbJe manner, End on the ftfrrtrft notice. He will
' thankfully receive any orders, and pay a pra.upt and
punvSaal attention to thcrri.
i C ve
November 10. *i
James Mufgrave,
GOLDSMITH &• JEWELLER,
No. i\2, south Second flrcet,
j2 FTAS just an aflortment of Fluted* Ware
>ro O. aid Plated Tea and Coffee Urns, C«fFe ;
Pots Tea ditto, Caflors from 5 to 8 bottles, Sugar and
Cream Basons, Bottle Stand*, Baflcets, high Candleftics,
Crackers and Chamber ditto, Branches Sconces, a variety
of Silver and Hated Shoe La chets, Spurs, Iwar
ranted of the bed plate; Ladies and Gentkmens Gold
Witch Chains Seals and Keys ; Necklaces, Neck Chains,. «
on- Fear Rirg% Finger Rings, Lockets, Breast Pins, Stone
s Knee-Buckles, with many other a*tides in the above
• branches.
ifg He ha* like wife received an cxtf'ffive aflortment-of
1' japaiin'J tea and coffee Urns, perlun, blue, brown,
j or black and gold. f
so All kinds ©f work inthe gold silver line; miqia- r
lures set, and hair work Executed as ufuai. J
to November 9. tu th & f c
e- Brokers Office, and 1
rjr COMMISSION STORE. -jj
No. 63 South Third ftr«et,oppofirethenational new Banl.
SAMUEL M FR >UNCfcS and JOHN VAN REED,
have entered into co-partnerftiip, under the firm of ,
- IRAtNCES & VAN RF.ED, in the bufinef? of Brokers, a '
Conveyancers and Commiflion merchants. They buy and "
fell on commiffinn every fpec'ies of llotk, not-.s of hand, a '
bills of exchange, houses anrVlands, &c. 1
cd ro.ufed on deposits, &c. &c. all ki:idi c'
tjr writiisg:, in the conveyancing line, done v/ith neatntfi and
ci dispatch , accounts adjusted, and boiks fettled, in the
i_ most correA mnnner. Constant attendance will be given. T
le They solicit a (hare of the public favor ; they ire deter- X
Sl mined to endeavout to deserve it. cc
U N. B. The Dtmoll secrecy obfervjd.
* S'amuei. M TR MJ.VCES,
JOHN VAN REED.
Fhilad. ju-,g«ft 27, 1796. nv&wtf
Any Person
Jfho is xvell acquainted with" the River *
MISSIS I P P I,
P- And will give Directions for falling into the fame, —
e that can be depended on, (hill be genaronfly reward- 23
ed for LiS information, provided he will leave the 40
. direflii.lls with Mr. John Fenno, printer, Philadelphia, --
or Edmund M. Blunt, Newbuiypon. 63
Nn»ifmber 3. ' lawzm
r : — * ——— , — in^
Twenty Guineas Reward. "
RAN AW AY from the fubferiber on the 13d O&ober, ,1'
, f a Daik MULATTO BOY, named MOSES ; 21 years •
old ; about J feet 8 inchcs high ; had on a mked preen
coit, with a green velvet cape and oral yellow buttons;
d ' 4 striped velt; a pair of dark spotted pantaloons, and
whole boot. lireA worn. It is probable he may change *"
his name and dress. He has been acenftomed to driving
a carriage, ar.d waiting. The above reward v. ill W5 ° J
paM for securing him so that the fubferiber may get lum C '
again, and if brought home a!l reasonable charges paid by
> Robins Cbamberlaine.
EaScn, Maryland, Nov. 10. 14 §imiawtf
The Elephant
/? RETURNED FROM BALTIMORE.
r "I~*HE public are refpedt fully informed!, that
X. 'his animal is ta be lecn every day, from
o'clock in the morning till f«n down, in Market
ftreef, No. l»6, south fiie, between Third and
Fourth ftieets.
Admit anct a quarter of a dollar, that every ci- ]
tizen may fee him. t j ()l
C 3* At the requeff of trany prrfonj it will be
exhibited on evenings from five to eipht o'clock, Jra
at half a dollar each.—The room will be well ly
lighted. ' w ' hl
Nei-emlrr y. d
Trealury Department, nt^
September 28, 1796. f llt ,
XJOTICE is hereby given, piopofals wili be re- j.
i ceived at the office of thr Secretary of the Treasury —
ur.til the expiration of the firft day r>f March next en
; filing, for thf I'upply of all rations which may he required V
for the use of the United States, from the day of
June, 1797, to the thirty-firll day of May, 1798, both __
days iacluiive, at the places and within the diftri&s here- \\
after mentioned, viz. At it Niagara; at
Fitfque If:.•; at Sandufkv Lake, and on Sandi'ilky two
Kiver; at Petroit ; at Michilimackinac; at Fort-Frank- a
luij at Pittiburgh ; at Cincinnati; at Fort-HamUton ; tom
st Fort St. Clair; at Fort-jitterfon ; at Greiiville; at
, Picquc Town and Loramics Store; at Fort Adams'; at
( Fort Wayne; at Fort at any plact bflow Fort ,
Refianee OH the Miami River to I,ake Erie; at Fort
Steiiben ; at FortMafTac ; at any place from Fort Maflac
to the south boundary of the United States on the river
iviiflifippi ; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiatanon.
If (hall be required ior any |>ofts or places not
nifiitioncd in this notice, a'l such fnpplies (hall be fur
nifh:d at prices proportioned to thofif to be paid at the
pel's before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed on
between the United States and the Contraeior.
The rations to be supplied are to consist of the fol
lowing auiclcs, viz.
One pound two ounres of bread or flovr.
One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ouncej 'of
» pork or baron.
Half a gill of rum, brandy rr whilkey, <juir<
One quart and half a pint of falt.~\ the ]
'i Wo quaits of Vinegar, / T]
Two pounds of Soap, / P er hundred ration* dclai
One pound of Candles, J uotit
The ration sure to befurnirtied in such quantities, as that
there shall at all times during the said term, b« f»flicJn t r,r, '«
for the confumpiibn of tlie«troops bl Michilimackinac, Dc- ,he 1
troit, Niagara; and Ofwego, for the term of fix months in
advance, an 4 at eaeh of the other posts, for the term of
at least tl ir ee moßtla iii advance, in good and wholesome
provilions, if the fame IKall be required. l t is'to be un
d"llo'>d ' that the Contraotot is to be at the and
nfc of liTun g the fupplias to the troops at each post, and
that all loiles luuained by the depredations of an enemy or
by means of the troops of the United States, fcall be paid Ci
for at the price of the articles captured or deftroyct, on
the depoutions of two or more perfofts of creditable clia
raaers, and the certificate of a cominiflioncd officer af
ceruining the circumstances of the loss, and the amount PR
Oi th: a; tides for which comnenfation (ball be claimed
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Seoretary of the Treasury.
By Authority.
&Vi«»
"• M/ J, «7££/„. W BLACKBURN m ,
South SecondJlreei. '
wft SCHEME of a LOTTERY
mod For Tnoufand Dollars, a»,e,abiv. '
' wi « nr Lcg ' f Qu T- ot paff-d dl,,„° *
and £?•'Vn° r a Stone Bridge £?"?. ' h < M
* th ' B ° rOU 6 h ° f Riding. in lhe
i Prize of tooai Dillan . Lallan.
1 do. of 10,000 do. . s °|ooß
3 dj, of 5 000 do. • m ' *0,000
4 do. of do. . " M'OOo
so do. of i.eoo do. 8,000
89 do. of goo do. _ " s °iOoo
Vare Rj do. of 200 do. . '*. * 'S ioa
iffce >0 ° do. of jqo do . " '0,000
and 3°° do. of $ 0 do. * JO >°oo
ftics. 1 d °- of 500 do |obe paid the poffeO) 15 080
'' etT *do of .cA * ft firft drawn S
war- >> do - of 3 e««> do. tc bepaidpoffelTor,/
9.4»0d0. of lsdo 0f ' hefi «'»"J«».>.o,( 'j-coo
tone' . ' ' ,4, '° 00
)ove ,o '°s4 Pruts ~7~ "
10,046 Rl, H k, J OO ' 000
wb, All Prize, fhal?be p»id"afteen daTflft^""h" A 3 ° o,o °®
fittifhed, upon the Tf , /oVrtor "
ticket, fiibj ato a deduction of fwemv °/r ' T*
, S;rKLnrst&sSr T * lm
7 SVfv"" 7&SSG
J'jfipb Htejer, Jawes Dtcmer, Thorn,, rT) J
>™ *», 3* 0«», >4. tL, ZScrti
mi. Miller, Commissioners.
EDi Readi.ig, Maythkgth, 1706.
of aboveoffi^wherrSe'^lLVin'l'o 0 I ' < ° b4 r h3dat
3 >* - »■. s~r,r rax
* sss&r *"»■*- —»ii-
, O&obcr 7.
c __ ' aawtf
Lnri 1
the Paterion Lottery.
en I7OR railing fix tho*fami Bx hundred and fiitr f,v.
X dollars ami fifty cents, by a deduction of fifteen ™ A
cent Irom the prizes, and not two blanks tot priz,. v iT
I Prize of j-coo dollars is dollars r OOO
' 1000 1000
t S °° .100
~ * aco .I.^
99 IJO ™
r j.-o w
1000
_ 5 La{t dr «™ numbers of woo dollari
d- 1331 lVizcs.
iie 4018 Blanks. 44.4J0
.a, —
635? Ticketsat S<*ven Dollarseach, ...
Py order of the Dircdors of the Society for ellablift
_ lHj; Ulciul ManuiatSures, the fuperion-nuants of (iie Pat
cr.on Lottery hive requeued the Managers to offer the
foregoing ?,h» n ,e to the p„i,lic, and have direfled them ,
> to rernnd the money to ch«fe persons who have pjrehafed
in the former Lottery, or «change the tickets for titket»
• 11 thi« Lottery.
!j Ihe lottery has ailually commenced d.awlnt;, and will
continue until finilhcd. A life oi the Blank , and Prizes
r<r . may een . a i th '' °' T ' ce 01 William Blackburn, Nb. 64
K (outh Second,ftract, who will give information where tick
■\ ets may b« procured.
™ Dated this 17th day of Jnne, 179(5.
,y J. N- CVMMIA'b, ■)
j ACO'i R. IijiiIVJINRERGy c Managers*
JONATHAN RHEA, ) i
STATE OF THE WHEEL.
1 Priac of S OOO - . . soco
1 Jooo - . . too 9
it 1 500 , . sO ,
■ 5 100 . 1
> 10 ICO - - 200®
J 9° T* 4?o»
115 15 - - - - 412j
'l he fivs last drawn tickets, xoco t_ch,-- soe»
!• Being all lhe valuable prizes, besides a full propar- f
tioa or the 10 dollars.
e As the Lottery is confidera'ily more than one tbir<
drawn, the value of the undrawn tickets is great-
II ly increased, and it ia wn.rth the r.otirc of those
who ho!d tickfts in thoold f':herte, that they can ex
change their tickets for thole in the above, if ihey ap
ly soon, and'at a moderate advance cor.fidcring the
now real value of an undrawn ticket.
The tickets being nearly all fold, the drawing is
future will be oftentr, and Che Lottery loon finifhed.
K'lvrrihfr 12 mws
r — — -
i YY afhmgton Canal Lottery,
N?. t.
WHKREAS the State of Maryland has authorised
the UHderwritten, to raise twenty-l'u thoaland,
, two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Washington, frosci th I'o
toniac 'o thcEaftern Branch Haruonr.
' The following is the SCHEME of No.l.
Viz -1 Prize of so,ooo dollars, 10,000
, I ditto 10,000 10,000
"■ v 1 la 11 drawn")
Tickets, eich j ! > OOO 3^°°°
6 ditto 1,000- 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,00a 1
ao ditto 100 2,c00
55 ditto jo s,7jo
5 750 ditto II 69,00$
To be raised Jor tk« Canal, 26,1^8
jßjo Prizes,
T 16,50 Blanks, not two to a prize,
i?joo Tickets, atTen Dollars, . itj.cso
The Commiflione.'i hav» taken the Securitiet re
quired by the aforefaid ad for the pnn&ual payment of
the prizes.
i he drawing of this Lottery will commence, withoi%
delay, as soon as thf Tickets are loid, of which timely
notice will be given.
Suth pris.> as are not dems lir fixmonthsafter th«
drawing is finifhed, (ball hr as reiinqaifhed fo r
the beneiit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
j NO'liEf YOUNG,
JBANJEL CARHOLL,e/D.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm.
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of Feb. 11. $
PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO,
—No. 119 —
C H FSVUT-STR P F T.
• [Pricc Fight Dollar, per Annum.)