of the Philadelphia Daily Advertiser, ■
FRIDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 14, 1 79 6 - [Volume X.
1279,] — — " ~~ '
n * ~ " * s~* 'r\ ta TT ATTC T7 i T Tr* \ tr*r Gt-rr nf ppn n fxrlvar:!
For Boston,
The Brig Diana,
Lyi»JC at Chefnut-ftreet wharf; will <*»
'S ' > in a few days, and take freight on mode
rate terms—for which, or passage, apply onboard, or to
Joseph Anthony Iff Co,
Oflober 10.
For Sale,
- Tht brig FAIR AMERICAN,
Captain Richard Cai-iet,
AN entire new vessel, and well finifhed
built at Newbury-port, (N ! E.) her plank
' and timbers white oak : Sail* well, and
is completely fitted—her dimensions are 57 feet keel, strait
rabbit —«2 feet beam—B feet 8 inches hold, and 4 1-2
between decks. She is now discharging spars, near the
Stil' u ntfe wharf, Southwark, and if not disposed of i«
a be fold at public sale at the City-Tavern,
en tiie evening of the 13th inft.—-Apply to
ISAAC HARVEY, jun.
5 South Water Street,
lethmo, 10th. diw.
The -Brig MART,
Lying at Messrs. Willings and Francis's
Wharf,bu'then ioo barrels, built in Philadelphia in 1793,
of live oak and red cedar.—She is well found, and may
'be sent to sea at a small expense. For terms apply to
' Gurney ef Smith.
oa. 6. dtf
" ~ZZ ■FOR LONDON,
* ail * oon :- ~ For frei s^ t or P assa g e
|g*£|«ll2iapply to DAVY, ROBERTS & Co. or
"John Vaughan,
September 10. . Front-street. ,
For Charter,
The Danilh Barque BeKEventura,
Samuel Stub, mister,
good vessel, of about two hundre d
tons burthen. JESSE & ROBERT \V AI.N.
Sept. 17. tf
For Charter,
Ship Dominick Terry, '
Jacob De Hart,-mailer : an excellent
of about 3000 barrels burthen. I
jfejfe & Robert Wain.
September it. <1
Boarding and Lodging
TBTO OBMTI.EMSM may He accommoda'ed with
Boardin ; and Lodging, in a private family and pleafcnt
part of the city. Apply to the Printer of the Gazette 6f
the United States.
Odober 11. tt&stf
Walhington Lottery.
The Twenty-eighth & Twenty-ninth days' drawing of
the Washington Lottery, No. a, are received at the office
No. 134, Market-street, where tickets may be examined.
N. B. Information given where in all the other
lotteries may be procured.
OiSobcr 13, 1796. <1
Wm. HOLDERNESSk,
No. 76 U'tgh Street,
HAS received, by the latest arrivals from Europe-and
the East Indies, a'well feleiftcd aflortment of Silk
Mercery, Linen Drapery and Haberdashery Goods; which
he will fell, Wholesale and Retail, on the lowefl terms ;
AMONGST WHICH ARE,
Some fine India muslins embroidered with gold and friver
Superfine Book, Jaconet, and Mulmul ditto
Do do do do Handkerchiefs
Some extra black tafTeticp,lut«fl:ringsand colored Persians
Bandar,o Handkerchiefs /
Long and ihort Nanki-ens
Enpfiflj Mantuas of the firft quality >
Damalk table linen and napkins, \y ry fine
Silk Hosiery, an elegant assortment
Thead and cotton do
Umbrellas—green silk, oil'd do. and do cloth
French cambrics, very fine
Iriih Linens, do. &c. See. June 14 §
The Cargo of the Polacre Independent,
CAPTAIN CATHCART, from AJicant and Lis
bon, landing at the fubfetibers wharf—
a 8 Pipes of Brandy ,
1 18 Bales of Spanish wool
3 do. of Annifetd v
7000 Bushels of best Lisbon Salt
80 Boxes of Lemons
For sale by WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
ALSO,
Seventy Hoglheads of prime JAMAICA SUGARS,
received by the (hip Dotninick Terry, Capt. Be Hart,
ftom Kingston.
Sept. 13. <i
For Sale,
55 Hogflieads of choice New-England
Rum,
I,anding-fr»mthe schooner Jjhn, at Vanuxem's wharf. ■'
For terms apply to No. 71, North Water Street, atth;
head of the wharf.
Otft. 3. , dt{ ;
- —Qrjat is TjtilXff and nmit prevail.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And far sale at No- 41 Cbrfnut-Jlreet by J. ORMROD,
An Apology for the Bible,
By R. II r 4TsoNy.ja. D. F. A. S.
sis/bop of La\ inff, &c.
Being a complete refutation of Paine's
Age of Rea/on,
And the only anf*cr to The Second Part. •
Augu'.t 30. ( '4 t *
To be fold by Au£tion,
A Country Beat and adjoining Grass
Lots, oj
Qn the 14 th day of October, at 10 o'clock-, A. M it
rllS pleasant and commodieus House, is situated on 0
a 40 feet public lane, leading from the Ridge or
Wiftabjckon Road, betwean the third and fourth mils j
stone, acrbfs ehe canal to a landing on thei-iver Schuylkil..
It is a twiVt'tory briek Hovfe, witli a, large, new, stone
Kitchen adjoining: it contains two neat parlours, four
bed-roon:?, and a Jigt't drefiing closet i over t»e kitchen
are ta"o other beJ-roc-rr.s. in frotft and at the fonth end
is a new piazia,. extending between eighty a»d ninety at
feet, by nine and a half feet wide: adjoining the Kitchet)
is a Pump of excellent and never failing water, With a
(bed for washing; the whole llnder an agreeable fbade ot
large trees. This situation has been ascertained to be
more than one hundred and sixty feet in lyighth above
the river. At a convenient diftancc is a frame -
HouCe and Stables, in good order. Ob the south-west tn
fide is an excellent Orchard, containing about eight acres,
and upwards of one hundred and fifty apple and other j tn
fruit trees of the best kind. On the north-east fide is a be
fisld us Clever and Timothy, put in lad Spring, with a tii
space fenced off for a Garden—the-whole containing be- ' fj'
tween fever teen and eighteen acres. < „
At the fame time and place will be fold, the following ex
Lots, adjoining the premises and each other, viz.
Nos. I, i, 3, 4 —Four Lots, each measuring in front ar
on the Wiffahickon road, about sine perches, by about
sixty-one parches deep, and about twelve perches wide at «
the south-west end, each Lot containing nearly four
acres—Clover and Timothy put in lad year.
No. 5 Fronting on the above-mentioned lane, con- :l
taining upwards of f«ur acres—Clover and 1 iruothy
put in last year.
Nos. 6, 7—AJfo fronting the said forty*feet lane, and
each containing about seven -and a half acres; Clover and
Timothy put in last year.
No. B—Contains about sixteen acres, all in Clover, r
bounded by thcfikl hnc »nd another lane leading te Jo.
Nathan Williams' house : it is an elegant situation, com- t0
manding a view of the neighboring feats on both fides jr
of the river. On this Lot" is a very large Hay-Heufe, ; n
capable of containing one hundred and fifty tons, with a p,
pump and yard opea to the south, calculated to flail-feed y
cattle. " at
A Draft of the whole will be produced at the time of
sale, describing the contents of each Lot, and the con
ditions will then be declared ; a fart only of the payment
will be required on delivery.
N.B. The above-mentioned lane now communicates
with the path of the canal, which is a good road to town
in all fcafons.
For further particularsapply to EDWARD BONSALL
and Co. in Dock-street. 7
RICHARD FOOTMAN, Au&i»neer. - c
Oa. IQ. dtl4.
Loft last Evening, tc
At Rickettsia Amphitheatre, (supposed to be taken by
some villain out of a gentleman's pocket)
A red Morocco-Leather POCKET-BOOK,
Containing about 185 dollars in banknotes; three notes
of hand of Rofs and Simfon, No. 304, 305 and 306, da
ted Ifcth last August, payable 60 days after date, to the
order of Paul Siemen, together fpr 5150 dollars; an order *
of Mrs. Ann A from Paul Siemen, on Lach
lin Mac Neal, Esq. Ut Port-aii-Prhice, for 100 dollars; be
n.-Uc rrv/»ral l«ttr»f£ r.nH nf Vin uft* hut to t!iC prcpriS- _
tor. notes of'-hand and order are without endorfe-r
ment. EIGHTY DOLLARS REWARD is offered to
any perfofc who -Will dilcover and fecurfi the thief,' and V
FORTY DOLLARS for only bringing the above menti
oned notes and papers at No. 129, corner of Front and
Mulberry streets. d Odt. 11.
just Imported,
Tin Plates in boxes
Sheet and bar Lead
.Shot—all sizes, patent and mon
Copper -bottoms and Sheets __
Eiiglifh fcoes and boot 3 in cases
Taunton Ale in calks of 10 doz. each
Baflcet Salt
Wool Caids
Gold Watches.
For Sale by
Simon Walker, b
Ofl. 7. mwfim Dock-street.
NOTES LOST.
WHEREAS two notes drawn by Benjamin Hafkell
and George W. Kirkland, dated Boston, the 24th
( February, 1796, payable to Joseph IWay, er order, in 18
mmiths after date, one for One Thousand Dollars, the
other Fifteen Dollars, were stolen with some other papers "
but of a trunk on the JLancafter road. It is requeued that
any pcrfon to wlfom they may be offered for negociation,
will give notice thereof to the fubferiber.
GARRETT COTTRINGER.
; ■Sept. 30. 1 ttstf
No 152.
Dflricl nf Pettnfylvania, to wit :
BE it remembered, that on the seventeenth day of Sep
tember, in the twenty- rft year of the independence
of the United States of America, William Mitchell of
the diftridt, deposited in this office the title of a book,
the right whereof he claims as author,'in the words fol
lowing, to wit:
" A new and complete system of boofc-keepino-, by an °
" improved method of double entry, adapted to retail, do
" meftic Undforeign trade; exhibiting a variety of tranf
" anions whicn usually occur in bufineis. The whole
'• comprised in three sets of books; the last fct a copy
"of the ffcond, according to th'ofe fyft t s ls mo st generally
« m use, .s given in order to exhibit, by a. comparative
" view, the advantage? of he system how laid down To
'• which is added, a table of the duties payable on goods,
" wares and merchandise imported into the .United States
"of America. The whole in dollars and cents. f
" By William Mitciiell.".
In conformity to the a<ft of the Congress of the United
State® , intituled," An a<ft for the encouragement of learn
ing, by securing the copies of maps, charts and books to 1
the authors and proprietors of such copies, durinjr the
times therein maitioued."
SAMUEL CALDWELL, elk, dift.
vr nt' 1 -n , Pernfylvania,
,S- Th " ih ° v ' Book ,s BOW P u hlilhed, and may be
had: of the Eookfellers Oaoberj. * 4 wiaw t
Plans of the city ;
-Including the Northern Liberties and diftria of
SOOTHWARK ,
and fold by
benjamitFbavies,
No. 68, High ftrest,
(Price one dollar.)
THIS plan, is *6 inches square, and has been en
; graved by one of the hrft artist, in the city, from a late
and accurate survey. Purchafer.s are entitled to a pan,-
phlet with each plan, giving « fo mc account of the
city, its population, trade, government, &c.
J' J| V Iq tu&ftf
A GOOD HOUSE,
FOR SALE,
THE fub'fcribcr, intent on moving to the country,
offers for sale, the HOUSE in which he now resides.—
4 IM healthy and beautiful situation.opposite thegardens
of Mr. Bingham, needs neither eorament oreulogium.
" Possession will be given on or before the 15th of the
1,, enfuinir month. .
7< THOMAS TINGEY,
|C ' - No. 121, South 3d Street.
lr Ht has alio far Sale, . _
n A fmiil haaafom/ assortment of work'd as& plain
d rNDIA MUCINS, which he will dispose of reason- -
y ably. dtf. . Offtober xo.
rj —— * 5 - ~
* Lottery and Broker's Office*
ie No. 64, South Second street.
e in the Canal Lottery, No. a, for faU—a
X Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
ft the late lottery. .. , ,
, Chitk Books kept for examination stiq registering, tor
T the City of No. 4, and PattefOn Lotteries,
a I both of which are now 1 drawing—information where
a tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
.. tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
g examination. Pr
The fabferiber solicits the application of the public q,
it and his friends, who wifti to purchase or fell Bank Stock, £-
it ] Certificates, Bills of Exchaftge or Notes, Houses, Lands, gj,
it &c. or to obtain money on deposit of property f>,
ir %* Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for In
sale at Ten Dolbrt each, which will be drawn early in Se
J. the Spring. C<
;y Wm. Blackb^n.
Philadelphia, Augtijl iB, i 79&»
id !
d UNITED STATES, 1 p
r, Pennsylvania Diftrift. \ df'
j- NOTICE is hereby given, that purlWamt to a writ „
'■ to me, directed from the honourable Richard Peters, ' '
s Eitj. Judgt of the Diftriil Court of the United States,
e > in and for the Pennsylvania Diftri&, will be fold at
a public sale, at the Custom-House fibres, in Front, below
Walnut-street ? on Monday the 44th intt. at la o'clock Ft
. at noon.
51 THIRTY BAGS COFFEE,
The fame having been libelled strain(i, prosecuted, and
condemned as forfeited in the fai.t Diilrict Court. •
WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marshal.
n Marfhil's Office, Bth of Oilober, 1796.
l , For Sale,
By J. IVARjDER, PARKER & Co.
An Invoice of Cordage,
Confiding of different sizes, from 11 inch cables down
to rope of % inches, ef different lengths: Imported in , .
'y the (hip Swift, from Hull, and entitled to drawback.
Sept. %"] . dtf (
■ , L_ !
es . '
Sales of India Goods.
3r - The Cargo ®f the ship Ganges, capt. T.ingej, from Cal
cutta an Bengal,
c _ CONSISTING OF
A Llrge Md_g«oeralafrortment of Bengal and Madras ft
t\ COTTON and SILK GCTODo. ~ m
to AMONG WHICH Awfe E
id A variety fine worked and plain Muslins, °
:i- Doreas, Wr. A lfo,
ld A Quantity of Excellent Sugar, I
- In boxes and bag9—and BLACK PEPPER, J
For Sale by i
Wiilings Francis,
No. 41 Penp Street.
Jene 8 § a
NANKEENS,
Of the jirjl quality, FOR SALE BT,
' RD. and JAS. POTTER.
For any quantity above Five Thousand Pieces, a li
beral credit will be given. R. St, J. P.
September 13. T. tf 1
" iii. ——_ — ■ j
- 70,000 Pieces Nankeens, 1
e jl Of the bejl quality and en rtnfcrtabh terms,
For sale ev '
18 Philip ' Co.
he August lb. d$
era ~ 1 " ' — <
£ Philip Nicklin & Co.
HAVE FOR SALE, j
Souchong
- Hvfon Skin /
Young Hyson > FRESH TEAS
Hyson and \
p- Imperial
°c Yellow Nankeens
of China Ware, afforteJ in Boxes and Chests
Qtiiikfilver
>1_ Bandanno Hartdkerchiefs of excellent quality in
chests , ' '
a " Lordon Market MADEIRA WINE
° f " London particular S-in pipes, & '
>le New-York Market Jl quarter' calks
Teneriffe Wine in pipes and hoglieads
jy Sugar Candy by the Box
ve Sail Caiwas No. i a 8
p 0 Lead in (heets <
j s 3 Calks of Cutleryafforted
:es A few chests of Mauchefter Good's, assorted thick
sets, cords, striped Nankeens, &c.
3 Small packages of black sewing-silks
ed 8 Tierces JTirginia Snake-root.
n- Naifs assorted in calks
}° J" 1 ? 18 / mw&f
he ■ .
ift. Wanted to Rent,
A convenient, well furnifhed Bed Chamber,
be With a good fire-place, in an airy and healthy part of
_ tne city. The person whe waijis to rest fucn a chamber,'
would have no objection to board, or breakfaft only, with
the family occupymgthe house, as may be mofl agreeable,
or Apply to the printer.
. September 2Q. taw
TAKE NOTICE.
TFfp. fubferiber intends to make application for a re
of the folloTving certificate, supposed to be
loft on the pafTage to England in April 1794 :
Certificate No. 10335., dated 15th November, 1703,
for 2830 dollars and 94 rents—Six per cent, dorttcitic
debt, on the books of the Trcafury of the United States
tic in the name of the Hon. John Trevor.
ROBERT BIRD, at jotp Warder's.
Philadelphia, August 30th, 1796. *tu<i£6w
, »
'
University of Pennsylvania,
Ofiober 5,. 1796.
The Medical Ledlure J will commence the firft Mender
in November. taw~w
FOR SALE.
PORT WINE, and
HOLLAND GIN, of the firfi qualities in Pipes.
FRAUMCES aild VAN REED,
Brokers and Commission Merchants, No. 63,50. 3d St.
Who d'fcount approved NOT ES 01 hand.
N. E. An APPRENTICE. Wanted.
September T 4'. rnwf
For fa!e by'the fublcnbefs,
'• IN PINK-STREET,
130 quarter Chefls frefh liyfcn Tea;
100 ditto do. frefli Souchong Tea;
300 BoXes China, containing small tea fctts of 41
pieces;
400 pitccs Bandanees.
Willings f Francis.
January 30 f'&f '
F O R 8A L P,
By N. and J. FRAZIER,
• No. 95, S. Front-street,
Prime Boston Beef, in barrels.
Georgia Cotton.
Carolina Rice arid IndigoJ
Sherry and Teneriffs Wines, of excellent quality.
Raveps Duck.
Iniiio Jte'danno's.
Sewing Silks, various colours.
CofTahs and Gurrahs.
Sipt. 1.7. tt»4ly»
By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
Sold ly WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 6+,
South SecondJlreet.
SCHEME of I LOTTERY/
For railing Sixty Thousand Ddllars* agrct ably to an AB of
the Legifiature of Peniifylvaßia, passed during jhe last
ftfTion, for building a Stone Bridge \ over the River
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, in the County of
Berks. l>ollars.
1 Prize of 20 000 Dollars - 20,009
1 do. of i©,ooq do. - - io,coO
3. do. of 5,000 do. - - 4 - 15,000
4 do. of 2,000 do. • - 8 000
so do. of 1,000 do. - 20,000
3g do. of 500 do. - - 1,9.500
80 do. of 200 do. - - 10,000 -
200 do. of 100 do. - ' 20,0c0
300 do. of $© do. - - 15^00
1 do* of 500 do to be paid the poffcf- £
, . for ©f the firlt drawn no. {
c do. of 3,000 "do. to be paid poflefibrs )
cf the five last drawn nos ) 0
9,400 do. of 15 do. : - 141,006
10,'054 Prizes 300, coo
10,046 Hlanks y—
30,000 Tickets at Ten Dollars goo,coo
All Prizes shall be paid sis een after the drawing is
frnilhed, upon the demand of a poffeflor of a fortunate
ItcKeT; lubjeft to a deduction of twenty per cent. The
Drawing will commence as Toon as the Tickcts are disposed
of, or perhaps sooner. of which public notice will be givfen*
Philip Peter Kerjhner, William lVitman 9
Joseph Hiejler, James Dlemer, Tlzom.is Ihuidas,
James May, John Otto, John Keim, Daniel Graejf,
Sebajian Miller, Commissioners.
Reading, May the 9th, 1796.
Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. 2, to be had at the
above office, where the earjieft inlormation of the draw
ing of the Washington No. 2, and Patterfon Lottery's,
fire received,, and check books for examination and regif
tcring are, kept.
O&obef 7. 2aw tf
Thomas Rvorfon
✓
HAS just received, by the ships Molly and Hamburgh
Packet .from Liverpool, and the Light Horse from
Bristol, and is now opening for fa!e, at his No.
177, Markot-llrret, an extensive afTortment of
Ironmongery, Cutlery, Hardware
and Saddlery.
The ship (Caroline, now on htr from Liverpool
- to Philadelphia, brings the.remainder of his fall impor
tation.
N. B. At the above (lore pay be had, a few elegant
Mahogany Cases for Table Furniture ; also, a good as
sortment of the best kinds of Knives and Forks.
Sept. 23. . 4
*• 1 v
THIS DAT IS PUBLISH E D,
By w. YOUNG, MILLS and Son,
Corner of Second and Chefnui firects,
Price 11 1-2 cents,
The Prefidt nt's A ddrefs
n To the People of the United States,
INTIMATING
k The refolvtion he has farmed to decline being considered
among the' numb&r of those out of whom a choice is to
• be made, at the ensuing ele&ion of a Preftdciit of tUc
United States.
Sept. 20. we 6
rms DAT PUBLISHED,
By J,. ORMROD, No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet,
(Price 12 t-j Cents)
The Presid! nt's Address
To the People of the United States,
Announcing his intention of retiring from public life
( at the. expiration of tiae present conflitutionai term of
presidency.
September 20/ d
>f , . No. 153.
r, ■ ' Jd'iflrid of PtAnfylvania, to 10
h BE it remembered, that on the twenty-fourth day of
s. September, in the rwcnty-firft year o? the independence
of the United Spates 6f America, William Cobbett of
the said diftrift hath deposited *n this office the Title of
a Book, the right whereof he claims as proprietor, in
the vtords following, to wit.
r- " The Political Censor, or Review of the most intc
le " refling political occurrences relativa to the United States
" of America—By Peter Porcupine"—ln conformity to
3, the AS of the Cangrefs of the United States, it#ituled
ic - t( An A A for the encouragement of learning by securing
s, the Copies of Maps, Charts and Books to the authors
and proprietors of i'uch Copies, rfuvii g the times tiiereic
mentioned." SAMUEL CALDWELL, Clerk
DiilrifS Per.i£yLvarJa.
■ -<' 4V. illE PAN THEON,
Rz&yrrs'i Amphitheatre,
i r JBqucftxsan zz\d performances-, Corner of
, Clit'lnut apd SiXth-streets
- v.'-xviOivßOW LVENING, Sklurday O&ober
. *Wiil be printed,
V variety ofpreafitigEntertainmehts.
ouciuiun Lxercifes—by Mr. Rickctts, Mr, F. RicketU,
Hutchins, and Mrs Spinacuta.
- . Clown to the horfcmanfliip— Mr. Snllv.
. : er which will be prefen ed, for the firft time thi*
Season,
A PANTOMIMIC BALLET DANCE,
called
The Diftrefled Sailor,
3nd the
BENEVOLEN T CREW,
Poor Jack with a hornpipe—Mr. Dunne.
Ned Hawlyard—Nr. Cofiae.
' _ Sailors by the reft of the Company.
-aiey, the Wapping Landlady—Mrs Tompkins. -
LafTes,
Mrs. Spinacuta, MifjJldKijfoh, 'Mrs. Ttittipkins.
and Orange Girl, Mrs. Durang.
HORSEMANSHIP—by Mr. Rickets,
i !GH : ROPE DANCING—by Mr. Spinacuta.
EQUESTRIAN EXJRCISES. •]
Ariel (for the last time this season)
. he wrtole to conHude with a COMIC PANTOMIME
called,
l»e Death and Renovation of Harlequin.
Harlequm— Mr. Sully. ' f
Old Man—Mr Durang.
Lover—Mr. T ompkins.
Clown—Mr. Spinteuta. ' ' r
I Ariel*—Miss Robicfon.
And Columbine— Mrs Spinacuta. '
Stipernumaries "by the reft of the' Company.
1 he Pantomime to conclude with a t)ANCE.
doors will at 6 o'clock—Performance
iOir.menees at 7 —Boxes, 75.. fid.—Pit 3s. 9 d.
Tickets to be had of Mr. I^ord 1 , zr the ticket office in
.-hr.t-.ut-ftreet, from thrte o'clock each day.
■ C-X' Silver f ickets, to admit for the,feafon,- to be had
b 'pn.ying to Mr. P icket-ts at the Pantheon, or at Oci- h
. h Hotel. ' r ,
FOR SALE, FKEIGriT or CHARTER, I
The Brig ZEPHYR, «
Capt. HINCHMAN. 1
Th: - S v<rffcl is about 3 years. old, ihunch,
' and well found, has two decks, and is
. burihencd about taco barrels: lying at firft wharf below. £
Cbefnut.ftreet. If not. fold or chartered on or before the
. iothinftant, (be wilt take freight so« Norfolk. For terms
apply te the captain on board, or tp
SAMUEL ERECK, jun.
No. 89. fbuth Third-street..
22 hhd-s. New-England RUM, «
May be Gad on board said *£flel. t(
Philad. Oflober 14, 1794. d6t
The Members of the Society of the Sons of St., George, h
' eilablifhed at Philadelphia, for the advice and aflifi.nce of
« Ingliilimeti m distress, ate requested to attend a quarterly
getting of the said 'Society on Monday the 24th inft. at
one o clock, P. M. at the City Tavern.—The members are
fequefted to be punfltal in thtlir attendance, as the rules
' and regulations of the Society are to be eonfidered.'
A. Humphreys, Sec'ry.
OA. 14, 1756. • *
7 - 1- L-^_—' *' V
Madeira Wine.
" '"■ tO
A few pipes of Madeira Wine, lauding from oil 01
hoard the fchooncr Lucy, Capt. Prows, at Chefnut-* K !
• ftr«et wfikif, »nd forfale by the ftibfcriber. V 1
Robert Andrews, J ,"
0&. 14. nlwf No. £6, So. Wharves, ct
— '/ ' .■ ■ • ' — - • 1 fa
Printed Calicoes.
o
JOHN MILLER, jun. & CO.
Have received per the William Penn,'in addition to
their own affor fcient,
A consignment of twenty trunks df Calicoes, e'e
fant London patterns ; also a few cases of handfoine
Buttons—Which will be fold at a lliort credit, or. very .f e ,
reasonable terms, the package only. w j
•OA' . , dtf ho
On Tuesday' next nb'til he pull'.{hid,
By William Cobbett, opposite Chr.ift-Churth,
An Answer to Paine's Rights of 24
By R- Makenzie, Esq. cf Edinburgh. ro<
To 'which is added) . an '
A Letter to Citizen Swanwick,
Bv Pc*lt Porcupine. .
The -n-f ole is dedicated to Doctor Joseph e d
Fellow ef the Royal Society of London, Citiien of an.
America, and Deputy Eleeft te the National Coiiven- ani
<ion of France. llr.
Otft. 15. tw
Benjamin and Jacob Johnson, .v
No. 147', Market-street, hoi
Hive received ty the iafl arrivals front Lirerpool anß roc
'KiiU, fro
A uefy general jljjortmcnt of DRY GOODS, lKn
Well suited to the approaching season, which they will aPL
"fell on the by tho.piece or package. 2^c
OiSsber 14. * taw4w rcn
: . , 1 Uia
JuR Landing,
At SGiith*Jlrect-wharf, from en board the fhtp Sedg S be i
ley, Captain Hodge, fiutm St. Pcterjturg, 10 1
The following Gx>ods :
Rr.fiia Sail D'wck, firft qualit)'. inc}
'<J6. 'Ihi
Do. Diaper. •, per
*:)o. K tick aback. the
: 130. Craih.
•Do* K'ouK! CaiicHts, and "6, tt> the'lb. of the C
Kr.ghfh size. —
I f. ' :u- Ca-rdle Talhrvv.
White soc.p in fnTall boie3. _ ; '
. Cot-vt f.-.u. fitn, ng
i-hvens DusU , Pm
l£ii;giafi, ift and and foil. ——
H. He Hair uncurled.
Rv.fiia Bar Iron'. AT
' . I Irop I:c,iS.
Do. Nan , ■
-c Toi.'o Oakum 2Tid fmslL ' Y
r : v :. rctci fhurg cinp. -
for Sale Ey T f vi
Philips, Crasnond;, k Ci>. "o
0 a oher rz.
Wafliingtoh Lottery. o
Ihe tv. enty-e.'ghth and twenty-ninth days drswiiit br<?u
• isrr ; ycd*i tile ofHec Ne. i//f, Chefaut-ftre* a tin
I v i itcs-in the a; ove Lctt,ery arc eicharged for tidtets A. ii
:vtrfar.tc(": v.L-dmv n. w be al
o<it.}A* ftn&.w3 J O
% 1 '
JTor one Night only.
\
r 0 f THIS EVENING, Friday, Oflober 14,
ibe /iJfembly-Rooiri, Oeiltr s** IJul\y
V. ill be I'refented, by way of an Evening Lounge>
* A IVaimfical Medley Entertainment, in three parts,
CALLED,
its. The World as it Goes ;
«u, .Or, A Touch at the Times.
BY Mr. BATES and MISS BROAD HURST. 1
this . —» 1
'PART TWg FIRST,
'SKETCHES of CHARACTERS,
n which be introduced Remarks and ;
tions, Satirical, Whimficil apd LaugTiable, or the
• different characters, profeffiofis iflnij pafflopj of man- ,
knid, (a« altered and modernised from G. A..
Stevens's celebrated LeSure on Hiidi) with the 1
following Portraits: • .
Alexander the Great, witij ahfervatioirs on the iirad 1
cins. ambition of Kings, - .
A Cherokee Chief.
s . A celebrated DofloV, with his Coat of Arms
"A CornUfo, Who pockets his diigrace. .
A Lawyer, with the intefeftifig ciutc of Bullum
versus Boatum. c
Song—" Orte kind Kif» befote we part,' * —-IVlifs {
Broadburft.
mrtr A London Buck, going to keep it up. t
A Courtezan.
A Married Buck, ret»rnin<£ frora a" frolic.
The smooth face of Courtlhip, contrafled with the
four afpecX •of Matrimony, and 'Jjohnioves jane, 1
and Jane loves John," by Mr. Bates. 3
" Keep your Diftanee," a comic ballad— by Miss 1"
Broadhurft. '
— 1
TART THt SECOND, a
COLLINS'S EVENING BRIISMi -4
Or, a Peep Behind the Curtain. r
ein '' ,fl ftritflures on Adling—Stage Quixotes, and '
Quacksalvers —song of " Harkaway to the Bruth"— 0
had Sponteis 3c Spouting Clubs Tay- t
ior's introduaion to Mr. Garrick—:A blind Aflor t<
Reading his part—A fcfanli-veKe B&tiSicr ctittßig up
~ King Lear—The Duke in Venice Preferv'd—4 Ruin
K, Duke—Bajazet and Tamerlane, Crt Tragedy Bell- ,
weather and a Bantam Cock, &c.
With a humorous Vocat Parody on Shakefpear'j 0
ich, Seven Ages.
iij "Blithe as the hours of May," from the liege of P
low Belgrade, by Miss Broadhurft. I
rm! ] ll
PART THE THlßD—fek'(Sed from it
DIBDIN'S WHIMS AND ODDITiFS. t(
tne Laughing and Crying Philosophers, with °
" Neigbour Sly, or, Lofd hOvf this World iS eivtn
t6 Lying," by Mr. Bates. ' ' t n
The Monk's conversion 8f the Jew, a comic wle. R
— Song, "A. Sailor lovM a Lass," by Miss Broad- li'
:gc, hurst.
" ° f A Treatise on Provincial Dialers, with r
ir 'y A IVeJI Country Collier's Firji Trip to Cburih.
■ , The Comic- Song of "Four and Twenty Fiddlers,"
>re by Mr. Bates. ai
" e » • _ ' a.
The doors tcr be opened'at fix,' artd the performance w
-to.i-utgm precifei- at.seven o'clock. m ~|
__ O" Tickets to be had at the Bar of the IfotelV p ,
The Subscriber requefl-s every Man h,
to whom he fUr.ds indebted, to meet at the "Citv Tavern
ort on Thurfdny afternoon, at four cf'ci.octc, riitcissiy,
\jt- uj ho-would wifii, in the courfc of the evening, to con*
vinc£ every impartial man he means to do him {lri<ft
justice. He will personally attend and bring hi, books lo
with him, and be prepared to Jnake such propiili to his rg
e«. creditors, as will, he hopes and flatters hijKfclf, be fatif'-
factory. ■ GEORGE MBADE. '
Foorth-itreet. Philad. 14th QJteher. 17 qfi. ri
On Sa urday, the u»d instant, at 6 o'clock Sn the /„!
-evening, will be fold by PrJjlic Vendue, at the City /
i„. ' Tavern, (if Hot before disposed of at private falc ) ~
An Elegant House, No. 78, J' o
In H'alnut Jlreet; - W(
WHICH is twenty-five feet front by one hundred and H
T -seventy-one feet deep, with a lot adjoining, to r-i'feet
wide by 72 feet 8 inches deep—(Thi:. h>t is back of "the KC
house occupied by George .Willing, tfq.) Th«Jioufe is
completely fimfhed in every refpeft. It is fifty ha
has two large psiloors, the front one a 4 feet, the back lta
one at feet by 18 1-2 f<et; a handfoine drawino-.room , lr
24 i:*'feet by 24 feet. The rooms below, the dAwinc
room and chambers adjoining, have mahogany deon,
and these, as well as the rooms above rfiem, hj?ve aeon- t'i
mthicatian With cich other. The heighth in the irC: and ' tin
second stories is twelvefse t, and have llaco corn-.- » aud Ina
nine rooms up-fiairs beside. the gairets, which a- 1 ' A
Vj ed into three rooms: a good kitchen,^-waft-home Wl li ,
01 and bathuig-houfes, a large ice-houfc, a jump in the yard co '
n- and a three feet thfee inch alley that leads into Foir h-'-'
llreet. The cellars are laid with .lime, and flowed with in'U
_ two inch plank, and plastered. llie yard is well paved no
and the house is clear of ground-rent. Two brick ftablcs
in Wainnt-flreet, ivith two coach-houses one of them wiU , V
hold two carriages the other one. The'fmalleil stable has
,8 room-for three, the l.irg ;l » or four horses. It is 21 feet - nt<
front on Wjlnut-ftreet, by .30 feet 3 i,iches 'deep. They fiat
have eVcellent lofts over them. , T!ie bnildiiv is arched J '
ill W I»{d with lime and two inch plank; and will hold ! M
about oHa hundred pipes of wi«e ; is clear" of ground- 1 , ,
rent, and has the privilege of an 11 and 1-1 feet a"ev 'J"r
that leads iftto Fifth-ftreet. I ]
Alio a large. Brick Store, fy feet ftont-bti Fourth- j the
ttreet, by 50 feet deep, wbich might, ati fina&expenee, ! do
p. be turned into a haSdfome dwelling house, havintj been ,-c
10 contrived m the building, it has a yard] jS "feet 6* !'■
inches deep, by 24 feet wide ; has a rain wsAjwpump hls
and other c.nveHiences, and the cellar is laid with two'
inch plank, and is now rented at 4b do!l.-r> per month bet
1 his budding irfukjeet to a gronnd-rmt si 1, 3,4 dollars of
per annum. Purchaftrs before the sale may ts w
the fUUcrfcr, GEORGE ME AD Hi
Or R FOOTMAN, & Co. Au«i«hce rs . otlc
e Odobef 14. * • a ll j
REMOVE D. ~
Th« Compting-tfoufe of «£NRY PHILIPS, No
118, Spruce-ilrtet, to the Comcp'of South fourth and
Prune-'tn-ets. Qitober 13. t 1a,,)
Lolt, lalt Evening, *')[•
• AT RICKETTS'S AMPHITHEATRE, the
A new, red Moro«co Pocket-Book, i the,
With fiindry Papers of no value except to" he owner— nv 1
Also, about Fifty Dollars' in Bank Notes. Whoever will . j
leave the fame at this Ofiice shall receive the Money for *
their trouble, and no qe'efiions asked. •> ,n '
1 Ofio'oer 13. To
•A Young Woman
OF tr.ertccptio-.iable ciaiaitcr, and who has been 1
j. brought tip genteely, \lollld be willing to cngjgc in ,
a dccent familv aschambcrr.iaid, andaffilt in sewing, &c. ° U
t A. "ne left at the Priatcre hereofdireflcd to A. B will 01
be attended to. ' the ,
j t2, . * tfcu. or si
* '»
FCjC-Ttffc GA'ZtTVE OK 1 HE UJJITBD STATfci.
1 ''
No. t
s, A writer under the signature of Hampden, in
•irts R-'clii.itbnd papei'of the ill inft. after aiTerti'iJ*
the excluiive fight of Virginia to fill itie office of
PreGdent, call*the attention of thecitfzens of that
state to the itlufVrious Thofcas Jefferfon, as the fit
tVft charaftei 1 :!! the*onion to till the Ptelidenl* chair
and proceeds to enumerate the various pretenfioiis ]
of that gentleman. Tliey are, . J
lit. His merits as a. phiiojlpber.
2d. As a republican.
■jd. As a friend to the civil and rdigiou* rights '
of mankind. '
i|.tb. As a citfsen, who was in favor of the pre- '
sent federal government, but wiihed for amende '
nfents. ' 1
J s»h, As an er.thuflaflii: admiier of the French '
trad revolqtion, wiihisty however iurTendering the inde- 1
pendency and felf government of America.
Ctji. As a citizen, who had » proper feti'fe of '
ms the perfidious conduct of Britain towards ur, which 1
um would have counteracted by pacific mealures, and '
mealures more advantageous than those which have' 1
dif, taken place. J
7th, As 8 eiti4en ( 'wbefe diplomatic talehts, awj'
political fagficity are not .inferior to his republicanifoi 7
and unalterable attachment to libers j.
the ® t ' l ' poiTefJinjj a no less LndcJ>encle«t 1
ne than his principles, and with a disposition, cotitinu
ally impelling Ins fertile genius to eftfeoreries and '
'lifs improvements in the arts and l'cie.nces. '
I shall.no* stop to consider the excluiive claim of d
Virginia to the prefideney, but {hall proceed ro<?;ta- P
mine the pretcohons of Thomas Jcfferfun, as above -
We may justly prefuine that his panegy- c
rift has brought forward every title which this P
ind candidate pai:efl;» to. public favor on this oteafi-
' — on > and we may therefore fafely ptd-iounce, that "
ay. those and thofe'alohe are the titles oir'wfiich his pre* ! "
*or tensions reft. I (hall examine, t'
"P .ill. The merit of T. Jefferlbn, as a philosopher. t!
™ Whether a moral or a natural philosopher, or "
both, is not /iated by HaYnpden. The charit£ler ! "
tr >, a g ood Moral philosopher is certainly a very res- tc
pedlable ofie, and it Mr. JefFerfon's panegyi ifts c2fi
produce any evidence of his merits in that,relation, *
I ftiall be happy to fee them. If it ean be (hewn
tlfat he has: difapprttyed of the cruelties which have
stained the French revolution, that he has reproba
ted mftead of countenancing the impious doHrir.es Y
jjj] Fhomas Pairie, that he has been an advocate for
ctn P !ace > order and fubmrffiott tc the laws, that he has
never recommended in a public chaiatfter, a prriffi
gate violation of public faith, in that cafe, his qua
id- lilies as a good moral philosopher, would be velua
ble ingredients in the charafterof Fiefident of the
United States. «e
Whether «5r not, he has vindicated the horrors
and cruel. ies perpetrated in France, has beetl the
sdvocatc of Thomas Paine and the patron" of his
*e werki, has dJTentions in the adtniniflnition lh
of rtii federal government, has connived at the op-
Jt ? to the law«, has recommended meafufes d'e- ji
T* jiructive of the public credit and reputau'Slf, will T
licreafl-r appear (ry rrrorew as ?118 coTraufl, l,y
■™ a rcfeience'to public fafls"and documents. »«
>a- .rf o.vly intended to exhibit him in the' 9
ia cliaratter of a great natural philojspbcr, lamat a to
,k s to *to dif«rn what refpefts hia mcrrits as » natu- Wl
t} 8 ral philo.njiher, can ncommend him to th<- preliaeii- °' r
■ ' cjr. It should seem that the aai.ve, anxious and at
rs.poshble ttahon of president would illy suit the
~ calm, retired and exploring views of a natural phi P r
' l fv er >\ l " s entitle him to the proses. hl "
V io.lu.p ot a college, but they would be asincompa- to
> the duties of the p.efidency as.with she is
commas of the Welfcrn ardy. As well mUt fai
wc have brought forward the eminent talents"of f e !
Kittenhouftf, had he been living, or .the wonderful ln
he - cnius or Cox, the great bridge builder : indeed "
i 9 thelneiiis of the famous tqurjlrian Ricketts would "
•P, have been at least as likely to recommend l.itn to a
.k llatuaa, which may occaSonally require g rcat m ;U.
m tary talents. of
X f Hjrf Hampden juaiy appreciated th-e talents, of
1H f thts grenrt natural.philosopher, he would have con- P n
id ttnued himl'm his philosophical retirement, 'mploy '"8
ti 7 ° ln djfcoverics and improvements in Gt
, k , u J\m arts, nng '4iii(r butterflies and infects, and ! tbt
i ! chairs, for'the bcnejlt of bis fit- !
u , !ou> citizens and mankind in general While in the '
h snuocent enjoynient of such harmless occupations, I dci
s "°,r fa; fr ' l '" d to his P" te a; ' d 1 epofe, and to the* 10
II ; mai,kl!,d > draw this calm phi t0
is ktfopher from thffe ufeful purfuiis, to plu,.,c him
, t into fliul aang«rous vorltx of a.n arduous md
y . nation. mo
d | To be fei'iotiSi let u, examine the claim which * •
u , ntb pantgyriffs kit, up for-him to the title of philo- has
y j fopher. - . fee
! _ For the prcu;f of his afferiwn, he refers us to
i- j the Aetes on P ir S ima. As a moral philosopher, I tlai
■, |do not recollea any part of that Wojfc, which iuf- wh :
6 - tifies the but as a natural philosopher, ]
), ' I,s clalm 1E P &anded on bis ingenious dif- fau
5 lertation refpefln.g the primary caui'es of difference P'°
i. between t* whites and the blacks. It is worthy ynd
I ! a'ld *ill ftirnifh an accurate idea of mcl
his phtlofophicsl fagactty. This philosopher had Ah
once formed the extravagant projea of emancipate
alt the Jlayet of Virginia, and the more extravagant Mc
one of anerw.rds Jbipphtg tbtm cf \o fomc other
country , ;i , pap. 2^2 u s |,j 3 N , les ou Vr
, 6 >,S '"r" ? Wl>! Probably be ificed, why npt re,
tain and mcoVporate the blacks in this slate iHe <
- anlwers, deep rooted prejudices entertained by the the
wh.tes, ten thousand recollections by the blacks of we.,
' t:?rZ th J? HiV y f " fUi^d > provocations, ma.i
; thecal dtjltnSions -wbtel nature has mtuL*, and w 3 .
■Ny other circuhUtances, w.ll divide iaw pauiei
. and produce coc .Uions, which vri!t re.er end but l/d
Jw th l f f X, " rr ; m |! iwl * 'Ae one or the other r.tce. '■
I o tuclc cojcdione, whicii are political, may' be ed c
aoJed Others, which thecal v,:d moral. The t J
hrft difference which ftrikc. us is that of colou, ; A ,
whether the bhek of the negro resides in the reti- prev
eular membraner between the fltin ihefcarf(ki„,
th r; e ' CS f' ■[ K "L! ifelf ' whethtr !! P'ocevds from firb.
the colour of the blood, or the colour of the bile, nor
or from that of fomc other focrcticn, tic <$?„,«: r^ h
i .
' 1
T is fixed w nature y and 23 3P nal *t if iti feat ai.,l
uaufe weic better known to us. And it this differ,
ence of no importance rit is »-hc foundation of a
greater sir a feU lhare of beauty in the tivo ratti '
in Are not the line mixmrei of red and white, the
expreffio.s of every pjfitou by greater or less fuff u .
.„f fioni of coiour in the one, preferable to that eter
j, at nal 'm»i»oto»y which reignj in the countenances
g t _ that immoveable veil ot black which coders all the
■ lS j r emotions of the other race ? Add to theft-, flowing
ong hair, a mofcekgaru fywirnf try of form w thcir own
judgment in lavor of the whites, declared by their
preference of tlkrn as uniformly as is the preference
■of the oran outang far the bljd: women over tbrfe of
his bii own fptcies. Besides thofc of colour, figure
and hair, i.here are other phjical difliii&ionj proii*
jre- "tng a difference of race; hair on the
nt i- face and body, thry 'fcircle iefs by the kidnies and
more by the glands of the. Jim, which giver (htm a
ich very Jirong and, tiilvut. T hey are mors
(j e . .tolerant of h«at, and less so of ( cold, than the
whites, perhaps owing to a difference of fin.Hurt in
0 f the pulmdnary apparatus ; they are more ardent as
icli ' tf tkir fm*lt\thcii g<te:s arc trtfufiettt j in general -
in( j their Aciftetice appear* to paitkipate more of y:,/a.
eyt _. tion than t'efkftion. TlieV ait in reafoii much in.
ferior to the whites. It is not again U expeti
suppose thifl different fptcies of the fame genus, or
■[ m varieties tf the fami fpecics, riiay possess different
salifications. Will do: a lover of natural hiji.ry,
;| j then, one ,who views, the gradations in all the rdcet
IU . of animals, with the tye of philosophy, ejcufeancf.
ln j fot.t to keep those iti the cfepaiimcnt of man as dijt
tiq& as nature has formed them ; this U..fortutfa\e
0 f dfffirence of colour, aijd perhaps of faculty, is a
[a _ powerful obflacte to the emancipation of theft peopU.
Many of their advocates.while they with to vindi*
r y. cutt the liberty of human nature are anxious alfj to
his prtfetveilj dignity and beauty. Some of theft, em*
ft. barraflfed by the queitioti, what further is to be done
iat with them, join tfiemfelve6 in opposition.with these
rc 4 who are actuated by fordid avarice only. Among
'the Rtwfeans, emancipation 'required but «nc effort i
tr the (lave when made free might mix hfiitfioHf/rittt
or ing the bloudtf 'his majlcr, but \vith Us, a feiond it
er necessary, unknown to hijlory ; -when freed, he it
; f_ to bi removed beyond Ihe reach of mixture."
an - PHOCION.
in, '■' ' '""" ' ■» ' "
"" :Philadelphia, October 14.
a - r
l(f Yefterdny afternoon arrived the Franklin, captain
or Walker, in 4$ days from London, by whom
? j 'we have received London papers to the 27th
Ji- °f Augult, of which the following arc the mod
- material contents. TAm. D. A.l
a . PAIJIS, A'lguft 22.
It is said, that the has reFttfed toTC-\
«eiv<s Mr. Hatamotid, mini Jet from tlie cabine{ of |
rs London .—Brfave. x J
w In spite of the pacific afFtirancesfrom most pang
lis IlWfope, We fee to make us believe that 1
m the war is yet diawingjjigh to an end. In spite of
a _ Hie armilhVeof the king of Naples, we perceiwhfc I
e . is IHII making the mult urgent preparations for war,
jj] The emperor, on'his fide, has ordered very ex l .ia»,
■ - ordinary levies of men and hoiftt, uu! al!-t«rr«m»
' as as corporations, ate desired to fend in their
(e ! quotas of plate, jewels and other valuable effrds,
a towards defraying the extraordinary expences i;f the
j_ war, according to their fe*eral abilities. The king
of Pruflia is jwaihng hitjifelf of the calamitous.fitu
j au'on of the empire, to as>grapdrze his power in
le Germany. Already, under pretext of filming a
• pretended conveiaion in thevitj of Nuremberg,
f. his tuajefty has sent troops to take p.-jfilffion o'f that
I. town. It alio, that the city ol Frankfort
tc is on the eve of pafling irno other hands ; i«
|t said, the king of I'Vufiia is to be matter <jf i , 'Che
jf senate of thai cityhas juit publilhad a prockfpaluja,
,[ in which it announces, " I'hat it has to combat.#
d " J"f great misfortune, and aslfea ioimal rha gc
" in tt3 political constitution." "
a It appeals alio, that there is forming a pvlittcal
[_ balance, the objeiVof which is to the houCc
ot Auitria, and to deitroy its in-flueucc in the ;if
if irs of Europe. Already do the cxt/aoidi.-ftiy
pretensions of the diie£lory mark its defigfi of ia/.-
~ '"g on bis majefiy's most valuable
rj wcrmany ; and to*tender his liumihation
i the dire'ftor j are determiradtoTuatcilfiom iuro hi'» ;
• j f jffeffions 111 Italy. The pretext for all these pro- ,
e j je£t6 6t mvafion is, to make Lombaidy an indepen* |
, j d«nt republic, which, owing its poll":ic»l exiflencW
-t to !• ranee, will bccorce a faithful and pov\erful ally/
to her. _ /
1 . i ? le c,re ' cs °f Franco 11 is have obtained an ar *J,
s miftice, and agreed to pay the republic 8 millions r.i !
money, and to find 20CC >;rfes, »
j • A report ii this moment current, that Msntua /
. has capitulated, and the army of the Khlnehas cfN"
fefted a-juntlion in Tyrol with that ot Italy.
> . Thc " ife of a member of the Batavian conven- j
[ tion has been brought to bed ot five boys, all of
whom are living.
Letters from Italy mention, that the French
found 7c * bales of liik-at Milan, whiclt, as rK. «l i
piobably belonged to the Engiifh, have been fbJj, 1
<ind- it is iaid they have been bought by some ijvrih
merchants.
! ARMT OF THE RHINE AND MOS.ELLE.
OFrtCUL DtTAILS.
■o/oxmu, commander 111 chief to "xhe executive
dire&Qty. '• "• jpi-|
" Head Quartets at Atr.iens, 26th
Thmmi.'or, Aug 11 ft 13.
'• On the S i(t iiirt-.mt, (Augn-l 8) we attacked
the enemy m their positions at Nerefteim.. They
weie repulsed ivaii the lufs of 450 men, who were
made prifoncrs.
, On ti.e zzi, we teco: noitred In order to Gnd
C '', po / mo " f0 ' l, ' C wlsi = h was extreme
ly dicieult iroin the nature ot the country.
" ;hc ijd, we attaciced the enemy j advane.
Ed guatd wttfch we defeated. The*. Lf s was be.
500 ln ; li I whi;V W£ Uck p. ifoners.
A dregful fl o r ro and the darkness of tK night,
from profiting of our furcek.
j On the 74th, Prince Chaije,, hr.ing received
fttong teir,i,„,er. l e i i:s fi-om Gal, eta, and the inte
! n°r *.f -rtuflna, attacks our whole line. Our
■ aat.k was repulsed, and the caetny proceeded1 4?
' •.
to Heydenfirim, wJ,ere onr , Etat-Major General}
wa% who. to Kenifbron, fw that
nemy occupied an exteut of tour leagues oil oui
it '.r, but this movement did not difroncert os.
" Our advanced guard had likewise been repulsed j
but the corps of reserve arrived, and, on receiving
ioilrudtions, renewed the battle.
" The enemy's chief effort was dir«£led against
OBf right. General St, Cyrdefended his position
with tne utmost bravery, although attacked by a
great superiority of force. -
" The right of the left wing was likewile at
tacked with vigour. The state of the ground per
ranting 3 gain toafl offeafively,general Defaix made
a fruited attack, obliged the enemy to give way,
•a* look twa hundred prioners.
iS Tiie reserve of cavalry placed between the two
attacks, kept the eneray in check, and prevented
»(,fmfrrm fcr! tvcw-*W>w»-wt»g«. t
Thf two armies, after an obstinate contest, which
Ji'led feveriteeii hotir9, remained inadHvethe whole
on the field of battle, and at day break the
' enemy retreated.
"The success of an attack wascertain, but our
convoys of ammunition halting on account of the
retreat ef the head-quarters, precluded u« from the j
pofftblity of hazarding a battle, which for want of
catouches, we coqld not have, supported above
two hours; belides it was rfeceffaty that our flankers
should fall into their position on the right. The
cneipy's advanced guard was stationed in the most
judicious manner. If they had re-tained the po
fition which they had occupied the preceding e
veiling, I should have attacked them tb day, kut
retired behind the Vernitz, and are about to
pafsthe Danube. Our light troops are in pujrfuit
of tbera ; they have already reached Nordluigen.
The whole army will immediately follow them.
" I dispatch a courier without delay, convinced
that the enemy having been close in our tear, an a
larm has been excited, and apprehentions entertain-'
' ed for our fafety. I Ihall transmit to you the par
oculars of these. three aflions, which reflect m'jch_
Uiiok. Ult tuc -cim'ragr-ot tire aiuiy, anil tlltpfb
feflioiial talents of the officers, who dire&ed their
operations fn tbe'vaiions attacks, but it is impol
fible sos me to do it now.. Indeed, we have bean
so intent upon our obje£t> that for fix fuccelfive
day., wrhave fearcely alighted from our horses.
Theaimy i« almost exhausted with fatigue, but
vi&ory makes them forget their excessive labours.
The enemy estimate their loss in these conflidts at
7,000 men killed or taken prisoners.
" I have this instant received a dispatch from
gen. Ferino, who announces the arrival of our
tioops at Bergent, where they took several m»rtars,
S howitzer, four culverines, and 22 pieces of can
non, between jo and 40 large barges, and about
t 40,000 sacks of oats, barley and .ftour.
I am almost exhausted for want of- sleep and
from incefiant fatigue. We have just received the
grateful intelligence of an important victory gained
by the army of Italy. . , j
(.Signed) ' " MOREAU-" !
OFFICIAL LETTER FROM CADIZ,
To the Minister of the Marine at P*rh, --
{ y • The'rmirTor, Auguff 5.
/ Yefttrday the two Spanilh fqundrons, under the j
yrommatid of admirals Languara and Solano, with
/that of the repablic, commanded by admiral Rich
ery, failed together from this port. Thev made
their way with a favonrable wind, and are now out
of fight. The departure of these three squadrons
st the fame time, all well armed and well comman
ded, has thrown a consternation among the enemies
k of the republic. The people here are loft in con
jecture ; but t hey look forward to great events ;
will Ax all these uncertainties.
FRANCONIA, Aagaft 10.
The contingent of the circle of Franconia is
fti!l at Ments.
Nuremberg has now a garrison of 2,000 men,
and the burghers of that city were disarmed in the
j fame manner as those at Frankfort.
k HZSSE CASSEL,* August 14.
/ Baron Waix, the Reffian miriftet of state, and
j the French minister, citizen Rivais, instead of go
ing to V7ur:zburgh, returned en the icth Jnftant
to Frankfort, i heir excurfiona are said to relate
To an amißice between the circle of the Upper
Rhine and the French Republic, which ha 3 Ireen
hitherto negotiating, and is on the eve of concln
fion v A separate congress wilj be held at Fr Snk
fort, where citizen Banhc'qfly, the French ambaf
fader, is expected from Basil.
LEIDEN, August 29.
A rupture which appeared On the point of
breaking out between Portugal and our republic,
in conference of a itep taken by latter on ac
eount ot her intimacy with tfie French republic,
will probably be prevented j in consequence of pc
flenor EclaiK-iifements, the ordinance of her most
faithful niajefty, dated the 19th July, for the pur- I
pose cf breaking off all commercial relations be
tween the two state?, and of laying an embargo
upon Dutch fiiips, has been revoked, by an order
dated the 23d July.
-m. . HANAU, August 13.
.irs moment intelligence is received here that
! cor P s of S ene,al WartenOeben, in Francdia,
■;s ret reeling towards the Danube. On the oth
1,11 quai'teis were at Fauf, ,<nd on the
Hirfchluck- Th? French continue to pe
netrate ffrhtr. On the 9 th, part cf their advanced
guard \vas onJy a league and a half fiom Nurem
berg._ One of then generals afterwards entered
thai city with some chasseur., and 011 the loth ftift.
a r reach ctii p* of 2000 men was expe<£Ved there.
FRANKFORT, August 13.
The rrench leave Manheim entirely to itfe'lf, i
therf° tolhrcaten any f ar . |
On the r Mh, thV i.a]lQon of the army of the
Sombre «n<r Mn.fr, which has quite recently been
eonflru£Ved at Meudon, near Paris, anised
All the ierr.aining circles of the empire are now
witii France,
• » ."' v .at ' t
Mr. FRANCIS
TAKFS cw Theatre)
T T X7 thanks t0 Ws i
on his return from Marvknd, 'to o^T^hfc^
demy for dancing i,™ , , P llc aca " T
Sr v dt tl[t ;s.£ •!
therto renders any promises of conduflu.g hU future
priWt^ 6 m ° ft 3nd ftri I
P n -ty, totally unnecefTary. * if
A'. 3. Private tuition as'ufual.
June 3 , v
i No. 154. I
_ °f Peruifylvania, to <wit ;
\ (Kf ,^ remerafr,;dtha;onthe26thday<'f^p
y EPK&ers:
• {2
claimsiiiauthorin theworda4ollowi,,gtowjt,' ' »
« ' L / Stat " exhiMting the fituatiom •
a c ° nne<a .ons & durances ef the Poft-Oficts, Stage-reads) i
Counties, Pons of Entry and Delivery lor Forci,;- vef
Kls, and the principal rivers, ' 1
" By ABRAHAM BRADLEY, ran "
In conformity to the AS of the Congrels of the Krited
; Statfs intituled « All a?, for the encouragement of learn- v I jf
I 'Jig Dy fecurmgthe copiesof maps, ch.rt*, and books to ' J \
rite authors and proprietors of such ctfpies durinc the
j times therein tuentioned.*'
! Samuel Caldwell, cterk,
, Dijlria of Pennfylvc.nia.
The above map may be had of the author at the General
Poft-Office, next door to the War-Office in Fifth-Street,
and at his houf., No. 78, corner of Crown Street and
Brewers Alley between 4th and sth, and Vine and Cal- «
lowhill Sreets. Prices from 3 d«llars each, accord
ing to r the manner in which they are finifhed. The«re
grefs (or arrivals and departures) of the Mail 1 011 the Main
Line may be had fcparate for ceents.
3- iaw6w.
W J A r T E~D,
An APPRENTICE io the Printing Business.
' Enquire atthis Office. Aug. 9 tj
Waflungton Canal Lottery, » ■
I. ~~~ ;im —.~t. —. ii ; -
T[ Y7"HEREAS the State of Maryland has authorifel
VV the underwritten, to raise twenty.fi.t thousand, ,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through thfi City' nf Wafliington, froxi th Po;
tomacto theEaflern Branch Harirour.
. , The followii.'g is the SCHEME of No. 1.
Viz •-1 Prize of ao,ooo dollars, ao,ooo
1 ditto 10,000 10,000
714 ft drawn")
Tickets, each j - U °° o 35,000
6 ditto 1,-500 . 6,000
'10 ditto 400 4,000
ao ditto 100 a,OOO
55 ditto JO 2,750
'5750 ditto i a 69,008
To be raised for the Canal, 26,250
5850 Prizes, 175,000 T *
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.]
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,060
The Commiflioners hive taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid a<3 for the punilual pay ment of
the prizes.
The drawing ef this Lottery will commence, without
dilay, as soon as thf Tickets are fold, of which timely if
notice will be given. § '
• C..-1. j—:—.. orum HrmanrfpH in fir mnnfb< nftpr th®
drawing is finifhed, shall be conudcrcd 119 relinquished for
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed J NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, o/D.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. m.duncanson,
: ' THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of Wafliington, Feb. 11. $
At a /fecial meeting of the Board of Di- { '
reSors for ejlabll/hing ufeful Manufacture!, ho/iltj
at Paterfon, 'July 8, 1796,
D ESOLVIiD, That a special meeting oS the Storit
(K holders of the Society be called on the firft Mpdday,
: being the third .ay of Odober next, at PateiToP, by ten
of the clock of the fame day ; then and there to tike
■ into consideration the propriety of diffoiving the said
corporation, agreeably to the law m such cafe Riade and
provided—and the Stockholders are carneftiy rcqusiled
to attend the said meeting in perfoi. or by
August a - » ■ ■ —
FOi SALE. j .!
A PLANTATION,
ABOUT ti miles from this City, situate in Abn^-
ton Townfhip,'Montgomery County ; containing
floor, fire places in eac , water, a barn, flables,
house, overs" «"' le } J J)e orchard, and a varictyof
(heds, barracks, &c. A g P d we |l watered,
otherlruit, about .2 acres of good p c!rcfU .
and wood fufficieot for 11c, J p roptr t v in this c'«V
on may be had the ifl of mORRIS"and NICHOLSONS (
I will he taken in '
Notes in payment. Enquire at « (t6f S
Pniladdphia, Sepiember 13, »79°-
F 0 ~R~SA L E,
A very Valuable Eitate ;
pAIXED 1 Dertf fnd ci/of 4
Ci township of y, a mi)e frwn
I j miles from P ' acres of excellent land.
■ ' v Wefterii road: cOTt^";" g dow g0 n f prime
'whklvare good 9 ality There are
. !and, and the reft s story brick house, with 4 rooms ,
I of Ciccll"" witer m ' ■ ■'; J lloDC >
• •'?T£2S* ..
country ft*- . rto f the efiate of Ifrh .
" ; j
i ■ , • Surviving Executor.
I Oa. 9' » &l ■' '
■j —No. U9 -
• -c H*«w'V i r? sT ** 8 T * i
C p ric c Eight » oJirt p