of the <& Philadelphia Daily Advertiser. '%>
Vvmi* i 3 23-3 MONDAr EVENING, DECEMBER 5, , 79 5. mLalts x
~~ " FOR charter, I , ~ 7~~ — —
FOR CHARTER,
Tl| C fine Philadelphia, cedar and live,
Ship FAVORITE,
John Thdm?sow, Master.
Kr retrider three hundred and ten tons, about one
old completely fitted and just coppered, i. now
j rareo and proce«d to any part of the
Tofld"' shTu afaftlumg velfel, and stand, A. N. at
Also, the fine Philaflelphia, cedar and
** li*e 01k tmilc
Ship. AMIABLE,
kIT' 5 1 Dan. C. Tillinghafi, Majler.
Burthen by refciftei two hundred and
fifty-three tons, just graved. She is four 7 «r. <*». and
*Tho*fWprl«dlemed equal to any out of the port of
~ . «,;£ kelp,, fitted in the best manner, and corn
ed br «pericnccd, sober, steady men. For term,
manded by exper.e M[ 4Ji W ARDER ,
apply to J Ko. Ij, North Third-street.
Hovembtr »0. e -21Z
For Sligo and Killibegs,
WmL. The American Ship Nancy,
1} Cuthbert Riggs, master.
Will fail with all convenient speed. For
William Bell;
Who has for fr.le,
, Trunks Printed Cottons, well assorted
3 Bales Irish Flannels, and 2 boxes Linens
Madeira Russia MatU,
Alio,
A few birrels Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
1 OATMEAL, Ac.
November U, Vf** mwW
>—«• For Madeira,
The ship Concord,
Capt. John Thomson. For freight
paffaee apply on board, or to
Peter Blight;
Who has for sale, a quantity of
Brandy, in pipes
Whiting and Copperas, in hogshead.
Old Hock, in cases
Dutch Cream-Cheese, in boxes
Window Glaft
Empty Gin-Cases
Glal's Ware, in boxes
Painters' Colours, ground in oil
Sweet Oil, in cases of a dozen buttles each
v Haz'.enuts, in sacks. Nov. 11. dim
pt FOR SALE,
Jijy- 7 HE SHIP MART,
ca§ ■ SAMUEL PARKER, Masl^R,
Ssracsrs* Two hundred tons burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MARY is not fold ifl a few days, (he will take
freight for HamEurg. TTppty it above. f — «
Ofl.ibcr 31. ' d
just arrived, and will this day be lan
ded from on board the brig FAVORITE at Chcfnut
street wharf.
25 Tons bejl Russia Clean HEMP,
56 Tons old Sable flat IRON,
200 Coils bell Ruflia CORDAGE, assorted fires,
$co Pieces brown RufTia SHEETINGS,
100 Bolis Russia DUCK,
240 Pieces Ravens do
c. 20 Half-down feather beds, and
few pieces aflorted DIAPER.
FOR SALE BY
Joseph Anthony and Co.
I*- Jv~" The above mentioned BRIG
i» a few days, and tak~ freight on
moderate terms for Boston or Salem, for
.which or paflTage, apply on board or as above
O&ober ii. d
For Charter,
|l-t The Ship JO HN BUL KEL Y,
Ayres Stockley, Master.
u' »5b "^ n exce " en ' live-oak and cedar built
of about 3000 barrels burthen .-?-Ap
ply to
feffe & Robert Tf a In.
Nov. d.
For Sale,
By y. WARDER, PARKER & Co.
An Invoice of Cordage,
Confiding of different fixes, from 1 z ir.eh cables down
to rope of a inches, of different lengths: Imported in
the ship Swift, from Hull, and entitled to drawback.
Sept. 17. dtf
Just Arrived,
In the brigs Twins and Rambler, a quantity of
Choice St. Croix SUGAR and RUM,
and about
150,000 Weight of Fine Green COFFEE.
For Sale by
fames Tard.
November 24. dx
Just Arrived,
I* the ibip Dispatch, Captain Morton, from Havre
de-Grace, and for sale by
Isaac Snowden, jun. No. 141,
SOUTH SECOND-STREET,
An invoice of Gloves of various kinds, Men's
"White, Silk Hose, Black and White Laces, and a few
• Itces of Black Silk.
Uecenjber J. Jxv.
S ALT Pi T K E-
A larqe quantity of Doubie-Uefined Silt Petre for
sale at No. Z5, South Third-flrcet.
November 5.
PA T E NTS II 0 T.
THE general confuraption of P.vt<nt Shot having bern
prevented by the high price it ha» hitherto bt-en fold
at, the Proprietors take this method of informing the
Vublic that they may in fututc be supplied with that arti
cle at the fame prices as common vhot, ky ordering their
Corrcfponpjntt to apply to WaLß.sk J, Malt a 1 U Co.
J.ondon. mct. 9 w/m^w
!A&9HHHii^H^BHiHI^^H^HB^B9^E
m
Fashionable Waistcoating.
GEORGE DOB SON, No. 25,
SOUTH THIRD-STREET,
Hat received per the Diana, from London,
C. ouded and flriped Spanish Swanfdown
t-louded Erminats and Mole&ini
Stnped do. aß d do. *
Figured Manilla? *
Scarlet- %«red Frminets t
Printed Floiinetts
D®. Caffmcta and Caflirrreret
Superfine printed Quiltings, newest patterns
Atfo, per different arrivals,
A large and general afiortment of Dry
Goods,
Suitable to tile present and approaching season.
November 5. dtf
For Sale, >
By the Subfcribers—ln PENN-STREET,
65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
Imported by the Eagle.
WILLI NGS & FRANCIS.
Noy - 30 w&f
To be Rented, r
A Large Vault and Cellar, d
That will contain 2co pipes, situate in Walnut ®
between Fourth and Fifth-ftreets. Also a COACH- r
HOUSE and STABLE, with Stalls for five horse*.
N. B. Goods Stored by the mouth. J
November 30. m wfi2 c
Old London particular Madeira Wing, t
Landing from cn board the barque F.aglc, Capt. Bates t
and for sale by . ROBERT ANDREWS, 1
No. B<s, iSoutß Wharves.
NovcmKcr 29. « o dtf
Irish Linens, &c.
Imported per the Jbips Clafgow, from Dublin, Liber
tj, fnm Cork, and brig Mentor, from Belfajl,
4-4 and 7-8 Wide IRISH LINENS, 1
In whole and half boxes, {
AfforteJ from lid. to 4 s. sterling—Also 5-4 wide t,
Sheetings, and k>w priced yarn and worfled Hose. f
On Hand,
7-g Wile Lawns. ].
Diapers and Table-Cloths
A few boxes Ticktns and Checks
A few baks Flannels j,
Cork and Beffaft Sail Cloth, Nos. 1 and 6
IS Boies } r 6 by 8,
10 Ditto > Window Glass, 7 by 9,
S Ditto 3 L t by 10.
The above mentioned Goods are all entitled to the
drawback, and will be disposed. of by the package on
reasonable terms. a
James, Clibborn & English,
No. (>, N. front-ftxeet.
roth mo. 19th. dtf
10 hogsheads St. Crcix Rum,
5 Pipe* Viuegfir,
For Sale, by
Ezckiel Hal!, (
No. 20, Pemi Street.
Nov. 7.
To be Rented,
A complete Coac/.'-Hcufe,
With tlabling frr four horl'es; lituated near tie
Univerfitj, with a passage iKto Market-street—apply,
ior terms, at No. 49, South Front-street.
Nov 11. <
Wm. Holdernesse, No. 76, 1
HIGH-STREET, [
Has received by the late arrivals,
A Weil Selected As so 7Mr i\ T of
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and '
Haberdashery Gooc^«,
Which hs will fell, wholefalc and retail, en the very s
lowest terms ;
Amor.gfi which are '
Some elegant 4-4 artii 7-8 Chintzes and Cottons, new
patterns a
Ditto Furniture <Jitto c
< Duo Dimity I
Tamboured, Book, and Jaconet Muslim
Ditto in Gold and Silver
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine
Maiituas of the firft quality I
SJilk and Cotton Hosiery
Dmhfellax of the firft quality, assorted
lrifti Linens, very fine, and Table Linens
Marfeillts and Cotton Counterpanes t
Role Blaukcts aflorted—See. Sec. i
Oflober 26 d <
Imported from London Liverpool,
EAKTHCN WARE : , In crates aad hoglheads, well <
' afibrltd 1
Wine Bottles in hampers 1
Window Olafs of all sizes
Two cases of llationary (
One cheli of yellow Jesuits Bark
Two cases nf Uoll Amctta ,
A small consignment of Rose Blankets, Flannels, 1
Baizes, Broad-cloths, Coatings, Piaim, &c.
Paints of various colors.
Balketfalt in hogiheads.
Alfe on hand,
Madeira wine, very old, in pipes, hogsheads and
quarter casks
Holland in pipes, firft quality (
Anchors of different sizes
A-few trunks of ladie» French ftioes assorted
Silk nan keen, &c.
Like wife an assortment of Dutch goods, consisting of
Ofnaberos, tkklanbrergs, bed'tickt, stripes, checks.
Morlaix linen, platillas, ravens duck, Hritanniai, &c.
And fur sale by the package only by
Thomas & John Ketland.
Walnut-llrett Wharf.
Nov. 15. wtf
Walhington Lottery.
The and 43d days' drawing of the Walhington
Lottery, No. 2, are received at the office No. 234, Mar
ket-flreet, where tickets may be examined.
N. B. ltolormation given wher« tickets in all the other
lotteries,be procured.
Dectwber I, d ;
A ROBBERY.
Three Hundred Dollars Reward.
WHEREAS the Stores of the fublcribers, situate near
Walnut.street wharf, Veie, in the night of Saturday the
26th inft. broke open, and robbed of a variety of arti
cles, contained in two chests, (which y-re alftj forccd
open) and of which the following are afijertained, viz.
No. .17 One piece London printed muflinct, 38 1-2 yds*
I One ditto ditto >7 3.4
a ©ne ditto fine Ma'rfeiltes Quilting IJ
3 Three ditto ditto Trench Stiteh dt>. 42 I-*
4 Five ditto ditto Mirfciilei Qutiring pj 3-4
6 Two do. Mancheftrr print Quilting 25 3-4
5 One ditto ditto Dimities , 23 1-2
f 9 Two ditto ditto Muflinet 46 1-4
lo Four ditto ditto ditto 7c#
13 One*ditto clouded stripe fine Quilting S3
t j One ditto Corded Dimity a 6
16 Four ditto ditfo ditto 101 t-a
One ditto wkite Jeanett
No. a One ditto half-ell clouded Nankeen 23
4 One ditto ditto Fancy ditto 2a
s» Oae diit» half-yard olive Ihickfett 83
s2 Two ditto ditto olive ditto 47
13 Two ditto ditto mud ditto 4S
14 One ditto ditto olive ditto
>b Two ditto ditto bottle ditto 44
A reward of one hundred and fifty doilcrs will be
paid for the return of the goods* and in proportion for
any part of them ; and the farther sum of one hun
dred and fifty dollar* to any person or perfone who
it shall prosecute to conviction the perpetrators of the
[. robbery.
An iron crow bar, with which the door was forced,
pointed at one end, and maafced with the letters P- F.
on the other end, was left in the (tore, by ;be villain*
_ committing the robbery ; who are fiippofed to have
gone off by water as a boat was taken the fame night
' from a neighbouring wharf, ~»d was left fattened to a
liuliop at Almond ilrect wharf.
PHILIP NICKLIN S3* Co.
Nov. 29.
Baltimore Office if Discount and Deposit,
2J/h November, 1796,
300 Dollars Reward,
FOR apprehending aod securing m jail PETER
, NOUCHET, a handt'omc-fjced French VVtft-Indian,'
for Counterfeiting a Check on this Office. He ,» not
e more than 20 years of age, upwards of fix feet high,
flout limbed, round shouldered, black hair, dark coihv
pk*ioned, with large black eyes and eye-brows j
has but little beard, and that chiefly on nis upper lip ;
his teeth have been lately filed, aud particularly one of
his eye teeth has been half filed off; he fpfcaks English'
but badly and with some appeirar.ee of fluttering; —
he r» fuppofffdto be yet concealed in thb town or iti
vicinity, but as he may escape, the different printers in
the United States are requested to pubijfti thjs adver
tisement. DAVID HAkRJS, Cafliier.
N. B. All mafleri of fei vdfeli «r packets are fort id
at their peril to conceal or take him away.
constitutions:
This Day is Published,
And to, te Sold by W. WOODHOUSE, No. 6,
South Front-flreet.
THE
Constitutions of the United States^
jiCeOKDtNG TO
The Latefi Amendments.
To which are annexed,
The Declaration of Independence,
e AtfD
•. The Federal Constitution, N
IVith the Amendments thtreto.
This Edition contains the late Conflitutions of N«w»
Harnplhire, Kentucky, aud Tennessee, not in ahy for*
mer one. Nov. 26.
TO BE SOLD,
J A LEASE for /even years, from the 2s*b March next, in tbmt
capital and beautiful FARM\ calltd »
PROSPEC T-H I L L,
y Situated within one quarter of a mile from the Brandywine
v Mills, and hilt a mile from ihe borough of Wilmington.
THE dwelling house is built of (lone, two stories high*
gentefly finifhed, and contains four bandfpnne rooms on
a floor, besides an entry, with capital garrets, and convenient
cellars It is generally thought to command the mod a
grccable profoe<l of the Delaware, from the source of that
livtr to thcClapcs* This prolpeft ia greatly einbJlilhed by
a full view ot avail body ol meadow, through which the
Christiana and Brandy wine creeks are leen winding in beau
tiful mtfarfclers. Near the house are a KitChea, spacious
stone ftab!e and hayloft, a barn, a carriage house, milk*
house, &c. and a well of as puie water as a»iy on the conti
nent. The garden contains an acre and quarter of hind,- a
bounding with fruit, and particularly prach '.redfc of
the veiy best kind, brought f'om Maryland, and in full bear
ing. There is, moreover, on the place, a ,-otutg, apple
orchard to bear, and leveral old trftsthat pr >ciuce
abundantly, bendes cherrv and oiher ornan*cn»l. in
great numbers. The farm confifls of near sixty icrrs of Itfnd»
of good quality, and clear ot incumb'anc s, cxcrpc axe« t
twenty of which are now in excellent cloveif and nmothyj
and tcD more will be ready lor Towing next »'p 'ng. A re
l3dei.ee ot nearly 8 year has convinced the fubicriber that
khe si liation is remarkab.v health* . The great poll road
from Philadelphia to .h<-' Southward runs wnitm seventy
verds of the house. In avv rd, tlie bea.«tivS and conveni*
ence of thi< canncSt be enumerated in "an ?iirertife»
ment, and when examined, will probably commana the at*
tcntion ot any person who isdefirous of living at on- ot ;he
molt elegant country feais on the continent. The purehafer
may enter oil the premiss next spring, or perhaps, tfii» frfflj
if application be immediately made to Dottoi MICHOLAS
WAY, in Philadelphia, to Dottor WHARTON, on the
id premiles, or, in hu ablcnce, to Mr. GEOXGE rRUi IT, in
Wilmington.
A quantity of excellent Hay, Grain in the ground, some
Stock, «scc. may be had by the purehafer at the time of sale*
Nov. 7 eoiict
(f Dancing.
MR. FRANCIS of the New-Theatre, in conjun<stlon
Cl with Mr. B'iRN, late Ballet-master, and principal dan
cer of CoVent-Garden Theatre, now of the New-Theatre
— will open an Acad, my at Mr Oellers Hotel, on Tues
day, December 13, where th#y propolir to teach in the
most new ind approved methods, dancing in its various
ujelul and ornamental branches.
Mr. Byrn's recent attention to the dances o London
and Paris will endble him to complete this branch of
education in his scholars in the most finifhed (fyle.
in Favorite Scotch reels will also engage their pail.cular
r . attention.
For farther particulars enquire of Mefirs. Francis
er andMyrn, No. 70, north Eighth-greet.
Private tuition as uXual.
[ . Noveaaber ja* mwScfNEJV Theatre,
WILL OPtS
THIS EVENING, Monday, December j,
With
An Occasional Prelude.
•After which, will be performed the Tragedy »f
Romeo and Juliet.
•Romeo, Mr. Moreton.
Paris, Mr. Worrell, jnu-
Montague, Mr. Morris.
Capulet, Mr. L'EJlrangr,
(From the Theatre, Coveftt-Garden.)
Mercutio. Mr. IVignell.
Benvolio, Mr. Vox.
Tybalt, Mr. Darley, jtm.
Fri<tr Lawrence, Mr. IVarren.
\ -( From the Theatre, York.)
Friar John, Mr. Warrell.
Balthazar, Mr. Mitchell.
Apothecary, Mr. Fratnis.
Peter, Mr. Mijfett.
■ Pajre, Master Warrell.
Juliet, Mrs. Merry,
(being her firft appearance in Air.triei)
Lady Capulet, Airs. Haney.
Nurse, Mrs. L'E/lrange.
In a<?l I. a M:fqu«i-ade Dance—-by tie CharadVers*
In ail V. a Funeral Proceflion and Solenjn Dirge.
The Vocal Parts by Meflrs. Darley, Warrell, Francis,
Dirley, jun. J. Warrell, T. Warrell, Mitchell,
Morgaji. Mrs. Oldmixon, Mrs. Warrell, mrs.
Harjrey, mrs. Gillingham, miss Milbourne, mils
L'Eftrange, &c. See.
To which will be added,
A COMIC OPERA, in two ails, called
The Waterman)
Or, THE FIRST OF AUGUST.
Bunfllc, Mr. IVarren.
Tug, (the Wattrmafi) Mr. Darlej.
'Robin, Mr. Francis.
Gardeners, Meflrs. Worrells Darley, jun.
Mftcbell. See.
Mrs. Bundle, Mrs. Oldmixon.
Wilhelmina, Mrs. Worrell.
Tickets to be hid at H. & P. Rice's flook-ftdfe,
■No. je High-street, and at the Office adjoining (tie
Theatre. .
Box, One Dollar, twenty-five cents. Pit, one Dollar, i
And Gallery, half a dollar.
Places for the Boxes to'be taken at the Office in the '
front of the theatre, from 10 til! i o'clock, and from '
lo till 4 on the days of performance. (
$5* On Wednesday, INKLE * VAR!CO—with a new ,
Comic Ballet, in which JWfr and Mrs. Byrne, from the (
Theatre, Covent Garden, will make their fir ft appearance
in America—to which will be added, a farce, called " The
Village J.aWyer."
Mr. Cooper v ill make hisfirft appearance on Friday in
the chara&cr of Macbeth.
VIVAt RESPUBLICAI
FOR SALE, !
About 1,600 acres of Land,
WELL situated, laying orf and between Marsh
and Beech Creeks, county, Penafylvania, in 1
four separate Patents. For terms ot sale apply to I
Wm, Blackburn, 1
No. 44, S»uth Srcond-ftreet. 1
"October «i. mwftf i
A Manufactory FOR SALE. \
A Valuable SOA*P and CANDLE Manufactory, situate i
tn a convenient part of the city ; the works ilmoft new, i
on an entirely original conftruflion, and built of ihe Left
materials, and may be ftt to work immediately. Pcrfons ]
who wilh to purchase, are requeftcd to appfy at No. 173, i
South Second Street. September 13. ttf tt 1
Best Boston & Nova-Scotia Mackarel, !
Excellent Halifax Salmon in bbls.
47 bbls. prime Coffee, j
Best Boftun Beef,
CodfiEh in hdi. j
Spermaceti Candles, (
Spermaceti, and ~l n. T
Northern j- UI L.
Mould aixl dipt, tallow candUs, of a superior ,
quality.
A few boxes excellent brown soap, t
6 Bales of Corks.
40 Pipes excellent Lilbon Wine. ,
A few jacks of Feathers.
A few bales India Muslins. » '
FOR SALE BY t
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co. 1
October *i. d
" - —_ e
Imported in the late arrivals, v
And to be Sold by r
JACOB PARKE,
No. 5 49, North fide of High-street, Philadelphia, '
A GENERAL ASSOKTMEf/r OF f
Ironmongery, Cutlery, Sadlery, &c. j'
AMOVGST WHICH ARE
SMI THS' Anvils, Vices, and Files; Saw-mill, Cross
cut, Hand, and other Saw*; Carpenters' Planes, Chisels, «
and other Tools; Carving Chisels and Gouges; Locks, f
Hinges, Bolts and Latchcs; Nails, Sprigs, Tacks, and
Screws; Frying-Pans; Smoething-Irr;»s; Shovels and
J ongs; Coffee Mills; Candlefiicks; Snuffers; Warming. C
Paus; Table Knives and Forks; Riding Whips; Bar-
!uw Pen, and other Pocket Knivts; Razors; Sciffars; i
jS'ei'dhs; Ivory and Horn Combs; bed Kirby Fiih o
Hooks; brass Cabinet Furniture 5 Waggon Boxes; Sheet
Brdafs ; plated and tin'd Bridle Bits and Stirrups ; itto
Sa die Nails; Girth and Straining Webbs; —with moll '.
iinds of Ironmongery, Cutlery, tadlery, Brass Wares, ''
&c. &t. t
Qflaber -.j. tiyffv, v
IMPORTED,
Per fchooiie/ Hetty, Capt. Thomai Mason, jun. a
Frefli Rice, from Savannah,
For Sale -by
F, Coppinger, J
\No. ui, South Front-street. c
iJeejmber 2. • l| 4 ~
For Sale by John J. Parry, "
No. 38, S. Set on it >:ea r Gkefnut-Jtreet, n
A few excellent GOLD WATCHES, "
From Forty io One Hundred Dollars, "
And BILVERW ATCH E S, "
Of various price*—all warranted.
An afiortment us Chains, Seals, Keys, anil Trinkets, i,'
Eigiit Day Clocks Supplied, and C.oiks & Watches
repaired with dlfpatch and great care. . <>'
Best Watch Glafies by the grocc. h
Isovemter !>• tuf&ssw ni
From tie MAir 1 Ann JcvkSAl.
ONE of the jrreatefl evils to <*?hich republics
have been exposed, i« instability of councils a fluc
tuation of law» and schemes-os policy produced by
the change of parties and faflions. Thi» result may •
be properly called a government of men, rather than.
oflawi. In this country and under the conftitu'i-,
on of the United States, it will be by no means a
difficult thing to avoid this evil, if the people have
discernment to comprehend the true principles of
the government, and virtue enough to endure them
in prailice. They will (hew in their eledlions, whe
ther they this penetration and firmnefs. If
;thry elect men who lire fiiendly to systems fonnded
in'the true spirit of the con litution jif they tcjf&
candidates who are opposed to good mcafures which
have been adop'ed, and thi; fuccefiof which and of
others connedled with them, depends upun (lability,
and perseverance j if they have fagatityUo com
prehend the system into which public affairs inter
nal and external have been arranged, and wisdom
1) enough to give that fyltem a $ if
they have confidence ia the great ana enlightened
man who retires full of glory from chair of
»" state, they will name a fucceflor who will pursue the
thread of his views, give continuity to his fyllem,
V and carry into pra&iee those inestimable political
'' precepts which he has fanflioned at his parting id
jj vice to his grateful country. Who among does
not glow in reading that address from the Prelidentv
in which he has so affectionately developedthe iotind
ptinciples that have governed his public conduct—
who among us who does not acknawledgie the pro
foundnels of his maxims, the simplicity of his fyf
tem of general federal policy, the wisdom of his
advice !—ln the choice of the eleA'ort of his fuc
cefTor, we qughtconftantly to keep in view a succes
sor who is attached to the constitution and the mea
sures «f the Picfident ; and who will carry into
pra&ice that system which our beloved Wa(hingtoa
has adopted and recommended to his,fellow-citi- a
zens. This will be fotne consolation for our loss ; '
and thus will the spirit of that great man still pre- I
e fide throngh the action of his principles, over the t
affairs from wliich he retires. The bleffug which. I
* heaven confers occasionally upon nations, n giving I
e them men of uncommon wisdom and virtue, would '
be in a measure defeated, were the influence f
of such men toceafe with their retirement or their c
* death. The life of man is short. The duration c
e of wisdom may be made for ages to futvive him r
c who gives its precepts » current weight in a nation, c
This is the immorality that ;s uuc to such a man as a
n Washington. This would truly be to continue him *
amang us for ages. f
Of the names brought into view as his successor f
the vice-president, Mr. Adams, appears most likely i
to meet withthe approbation of the federal men, in f
the union ; and it may, from hiecbaraflii,i>e fair- I
Ij ly presumed that he will be proud to tread in the f
„ fleps of the President, and deserve the elevated fta- a
a tion intended him. That Mr. Adams should have r
been the man of the federal men, is not at all an t
unexpe&ed thing. To have been the fecend man t
in the choice of the nation, ever llnce the adept!- 1
- on of our excellent conßitution must at once have t
prepared both him and the nation for a higtiergrade s
in his favour, whenever the President should de- i
e cline. To overlook hivn in such a juufhire, would J
be a puerile inconsistency, nnjuft to him and unwor- 1
t thy of the people. What so natural, »s that hav- 1
, ing lorg diftingtiilhed him next to their firtl, when :
that firft retires, to make him firft. A firm eti- >
- lightened and try'd friend and defender of the re- c
publican representative government, as balanced in c
our conltitution, the union will- uave in him, th* a
friend of liberty and law, asfecured under our pre- i
sent unrivalled political foim. They will "have in 1
him, that fame zeal for the real independence of his' (
country which rendered him so cor.fptcuous during t
our glorious revolution j and that attachment to 3
our constitution which has prrfcrved the noil un- (
r d iminifhed sympathy between him and the Prefi- t
dent, in all the concuflions of public opinion, since r
the adoption of the federal government..
As a foreign minifler, his character stone with f
splendor upon two impoitant and memorable occa- 1
fior.s: the Dutch negociition and the treaty of c
pease with Great-Britain. In the firtt he was o- v
bilged to call forth all his address. . Those who are 1
at all read in the political affairs of the seven Unit- t
ed Provinces, know that the federate form of go- b
vernment which was then in force, was perhaps the t
mod complicated, and flow in farming its it\s, of t
any power in Europe. To take Holland, the most i
important of the seven, as an inflance—ln this d
province there are eighteen cities, which were to c
I many purposes sovereign bodies. Each sent its e
deputies or Hates to the states of the province. The v
. sovereign power of the republic was in the Rates «- e
, ««77/, vhich confided of the deputies or states sent 1
, from the assembly of each piovince, and formed three o
1 B rand called the JUits general, the
. co u "cil of state, and the chamber of a counts li
. Each canftitnent a fl rm bly sent as many deputies as r
; it tbc t proper; all from each province being but St
1 one vote, as was the caf? in oiJt old coufedctation con- p
, R ' cr '- L P°" q»e«>ons of a general nature biforc-'o
, the states general, it w . s u s ua l ,ake up the but
, hnels ad referendum, i.e. to f„nd the qneltion u. t
the Uatesot each province, for them to deliberate a
upon, and inflrud their deputies in the states re- a
neral how to vote. In cases of peace and war,- f
and forming alliances, jt wasneceffary that all the ti
ptovinces fhoulo concur ; and when the question b
was thus sens ,0 the states of xU province, t i;a , ,f. „
iembly uevei thought themfelvet at liberty to ckcidc a
until the regencies and councils and folates of each o
city, or separate republic in the province, | c
ed itidiputies in the assembly of that province. I t ~
was upon this disjointed and complicated political
machinery, that it was Mr. Adam,', duty make J
new and great impressions, and h„ praise ,0 succeed p
I,IS eHd «vours. He .xeompHihed his ebica- f,
a treaty with America : and the defeat of the pa
cfic mediation of Ruflia in favour of Great-Bri
tain, in the mid ft of the mod circum f
fiances., The ftadtholder was related to the king ti
of E'ig.and, the interell of Great Britain f t
"'' 5 C fl ' li ' oniil a " d ind ' Te «. «a» , m 0 ,
Am ' was untemittingly opposed 1
■ lo Mr. Aditftii. Ii ofcupiui t' e court at the Ha»u:
it (hut the doors of their high mightinesses a
gaind him : for they refufed his letters of credence, i
until by the force of reason, indudrioufly exerted <
among the con(\itu«nt assemblies and fubaitcrn dc- i
partments of power in the several province* and
i , towns, he triumphed over the English party, the
J,' prince of Orange, and the phlegmatic complexion
of the whole country.
*' On his arrival at the Hague, he had presented
re a memorial to their high mightinesses, in which he
'f forcibly and affe&ingly pourt rayed the features of
m analogy between the United States and the Dutch
f natior. Finding that a poweiful party prevented
jf him from any opportunity of presenting his cre
>(j dentists, and qualified as he was to avail himfetf of t
' those means of reaching the very interior of their
,j cabinet, through their condituiional organs, which
their form of government afforded, he took every
] laudable step that Could insure indru&ioiss in his fa-
vour, in the different cities and provinces. In a
r _ few months after his memorial had been sent by the
m dates general (o the refpeftive afferpblies, we find
jf his offers of a treaty mentioned with friendly in
-1(j tentions in the nd'embly of the dates of Guelderland
3 f by baron Nagel. His efforts in Oodugo, Guelder
lc land, Lcyden, Rotterdam, Haerlem, Zwoll, and
t through the whole of Overyffcl, Am!lerdam, Ut
s'i recht, Fricfland, Holland, and Wed-Friefland,
i Zealand and Groningen, manifefted themfcives fird
, in petitions of merchants and others to their refpee
, tive dates and regencies ; and then, in the formal (
indruftions to the deputies from each province to
the Hates general, which crowned his patriotic la-
K Lours with success. w
r Remainder in vur next.] L
- " ' E
e:
7*o tie Editor ef the Gazelle of the United Slate:.
— ai
a Mr. Finxo, '1
i THE advocates of the Jrfferfon ticket assured
. all those whom they succeeded in duping, and ma- I
; ny whom they did not, that, if he was Prefid*nt, c<
. he would be a firm friend to order. He would he
: energetic enough, he would ditippoint his oppofers
», by his vigorous and truly federal adminiflration.
r No man that knows him will deny, that he, like bj
1 mod of the democrats, is fufticifutly arbitrary in 1c
c his disposition, and as impatient of contioul or ~
r contraction as any chiel magistrate should be. N(i
i doubt when President, lie will love power—he has
l not been accufcd of hating it, notwithdanding his
. cunnir.g retreat from office. But the quelh'on is,
i and it touehes the vitals of the public 'liberty, how ,
i will he try to get it, and to hold it ? Will he, or will -
his friends fer him, get a foreign incendiary to come
r forward, like Genet, with an appeal to the people e2
p in the very nick of time, while the election is de
l pending, and to threaten the country, with the re
. fentmentof an ally if we should notchufehim Pre- r3
: fident a fccorid time ? Four years- hence, the fnme iei
- abominations may be repeated again, that we mast
c re cleft a President that will pleafethe French ; and aR
i thus we may have a perpetuity in the office created
i by foreign influence, or more correctly a vice roy, m
- like a lord lieutenant of Ireland, who would at all vi
: times dand in awe of his maker. If Americans los
e are so Junk, so unspeakably mean in edimation and
- spirit as to take the law in this manner, from any
J power on earth, bondage is too good for them. Like an
Poland, where the French once governed, like Hoi
land where they dill govern, America should he
annihilated—Sons of insolence go from our towns
where corruption and clubs can btay a mob, to our ve
country villages where virtue, patriotism and real in- a >:
dependence (till rtign, and you will find your vile ft;
arts arc lod—you will find Washington moie belo- wl
ved and truded than Adet—and that our husband- a,:
inen owe moie duty to America than to France. tx
Come to York county, or go to Jerky, orConncc
ticut, and write manifefloes tlut will fun the citi
zens whom Mr. Jcfferfon calls the cholen people of kii
God, because they culiivate the earth. Our coun- wl
try would not then have toliear the unexampled out
rage of such a manifedo as Mr. Adet's. P s
But to return ;o Mr. Jcfferfon, if he or his
friends seek an election, and a re-election by foreign
- aid, he is the lad and the word man that could be
f chofcn. - The appeal is to fails, and in a country,
• where, tho' it is easy to make dupes, it is peculiar
: ly difficult to shelter them from ridicule and con- to
- tempt, tie authority of these facts is already eda
• bhihed. The clubs may clamor, the jacobins and
: their pensioned printers may lie, Mr. Miuitier may '*><
f threaten the government, and coax the people. The
t impression is made, and it is the imprcffion of in- 'C "
5 dignation and infu'teri national independence, which
i cannot be erased. If it could he, if any foreign
i cn.iifary could meddle in our elections with success, ,
: ve should firk as Poland did. Tt would be a mock- J]
• eiy to celebrate lhe 4th of July—No—it would
then be proper to celebrate the hoind loth of Au- s et
; gust in it's dead. bet
• But do the advocates of Mr. Jcffeifo ( really be- P l '
lieve, that he would support public ci der, "and real J
> national independence, as they pretend i Do they
Relieve, that Fiance u-ould be a mrre ally, without 1
- power over our affairs ? that out lyilt tns would be 16
' upheld— property sacred—hanks and funding fyf 'j l '
tems, those objefls oj democratic abomination, un-
' touched—the government firm snd energetic—?n;l
an impartial neu:rality oiairtau ed ?—Q the depth i
and Ihe breadth of party impudence ! Was it for eif
1 such a man, was it lor tuch a fydem of admmidra- 40
tion, that all the agents of a foreign power were 8 }
btrz-zing treason in our ears ? Was liaehc's paper
paid for this ? Did the wluiky couniirn defite such
a new order of things, or, intlead ol it, that kind
of licence that citizen Fauchet, in his intercepted *7°
letters, has dated as their right ? Docs Mr. AJD '
%viih such a fydem ? Do the advocates of the de
teded Virginiaamendmenis really intcred themselves r , a
in Mr. J's election, because they think he will sup- j
port the conditution, which he was said to abhor
from the hrfl ? Or, on the contrary, do they think j
he wili patronise that motley jargon of imbecility —
and mifchicf ? Why, in a word, do thefons of cau
fuijon, the enemies of the conditufion, the crea
tures and hirelings of a foreign power, exert them
selves so much, if they expect the fulfilment of their
own promises ? They do not expect airy such thing. i oC
They knew their man ; but, thank God, who pro- I
ii: teas liberty, their pawer and tfc : ; r art , re , v .
a- and J,»hn Adams will be tin man to DrrU,,'" ""'
e, has already helped to establish, the itidepen > ° ■ '
rd our country. We are not Pole., norJj'J,,
e- a Frenchman for Pielidtnt. v
ld v t , » f , . acricou
1C York county, Pennsylvania,
>n November 26, 1796.
,c Pantheon,
if _ RICKETJx's AMPHITHEATRE
h For EquistßiAN and Stag* PsRFon M4NCt ,
1£ ) Corner of Chefuut and Sixth-ftrtcu.
: " r 0" Dayi of Performance, for the remain ,
r ,hc fcifon » t0 Tuesday, Thurfd.y and SmZ".
h TO-MORROW FVENING, Tuesday, n fr ,
y Will be pref.ftted, &
A variety of Entertainments,
a To commence with HORSEMANSHIP,- by the
e Equestrian company.
. A Ballet Dance, under the direaion of Mr. Da .
" r . calle<l
j - The Two Huntsmen.
A Comic Song by Mist Sully,
d The whole to conclude { for the »d time) with
The Grand Serious Pantomime sf
{ Oscar and Malvina,
Or, The Hall of Fingal.
1 (Under the Jireaion of MeJTrs. Sully and Stinacjta)
D (Taken from the Poems of Oflian.)
From tr.e great e(limati»n in which this piece kn
been held by the public, (having been performed up.
wards of 150 nights at Covent-Garden I heatre, in
London, likewise aC Mr. Uickett'a Royal Circm
Edinburgh) he flatters himfelf that. having s par ed no
expence. it will meet the approbation of a generc'.i
public.
A Defcriptiofi of the Pantomime, with the Son-,
and Choruffes, to be haifat the Pantheon and at
Ticket Office.
(£7~ Doom to be open at 6 o'clock ; performance '3
t commence at 7.
C*T ® ox > 7'- M.—Pit, 3s. 9d.
' I icke:s to be hid of Mr. Ford, at the ticket offire iV"
' Chefnut-flreet, from tta to three o'clock each day.
£jT Silver Tickets, to admit for the season, to lie h»4
■ by applying to Mr. Kicketts at the Pantheon, or at Ocl
-1 Icrs's Hotel.
- OLD THEATRE. 1 !
>.
1 On TUESDAY EVENING, Decembrr 6,
Signio> FALCONI
! Will Exhibit his
I Natural and Philosophical Experiments';
Among several new experiments, too tedious ;a
C2umerate, th-re will he
The Astonishing Magnetism,
The virtue of which the performer will communis j3js
rate to the dusance of twelve feet, both by light aid
feeling. . >*aj
K curious and philosophical discovery of. lighting
a Candle with a Card, Knife, or Sword, without
any Fire.
After a New Exhibition of philosophical experi
ments, which the exhibitor omits to mention, with a
view to furprifc the company, will be a reprelentation
i of thai Terror 4>f Natuw,
A Thunder-ltcrm at Sea.
In which will be seen the swelling of the fei, •
• and the waves rolling with incredible impeuiofitv ;
the iky wonderfully covered with clouds; the natural
appearance of hail, with concomitant nuife, and
a'Ship in Distress, which after a long Aruggle is d:s
---' malUd arid goes down. The manecuvrlhg of :iie
vessel in this dreadful situation w ill not only exci'c -
admiration in the fpei!tators in general hut to cw.y I
feafaring person prefeilt, v. ho nsutt acknowledge the
whole calamitous fcene i to be exceedingly natural,
and the gre.ueft piece of ingenuity of the icind.ever*
exhibited in 1 thi< part'of the world —All to b : acctin,-
panied with r iIIt)NDER and I.lGlll WluG, so
near a resemblance as to astonish the company.
After the storm wilkfollow an appearanoe of all
kinds of fifh, asd the rcfult of tfcclofeof the •JeflH—
which the exhibitor is confident will give entire fitif
fa&ion and a perfeiS idea of h Shipwreck, to fueh
persons as have never feeii any thing, o; the k.nd.
Totoncludc witli
The appearance of a Young Lady,
V.'ho will dance a complete Hornpipe, in a beauti
ful saloon, equal tp any Dancing-Mailer.
* * Tickets to be had at Mr. North's, next door
to ti* theatr; —Boxes may be taken at the kmc plafi.
No money received at the door.
£3" Stoves have been put «p, in order to render
the House tomfortable.
That: will be light in the fides 6f the Boxes to ac
t commodate the company in time, of the (hades.
! —
Ot SATURDAY EVENING, the icth Dcc.mbcr, «
6 o'clock, a' the Merchant's Coifee-Hoofe, will be
fold, the following
Houses, Lots, and Meadow Ground :
TWO neat well firifbed three story brtclt houses, l 6 I -a
feet front, with npnveiiieot kitchciis', north tide market |
between and Eighth-flreets Each houfc has the
privilege of an alley. The lots are IjO feet in depth.
One two story brick house in Zane Street, commonly
called Sugar-alley ; the lioiite is 16 r-a feet front on Wid
alky, with a gr.o< kitchen. The lot i< 90 leet in depth.
One vacant !ot adjoining the said houfc in
16 r-1 feet front, and 90 feet deep, at the end of 90 feet
the f.id lot widens to 33 leet and runs to wo Market
flreet lots 111 feet. . .
One two story brick honfe and k.tchcii m Zane-Srert,
16 1-a feet front, Ihe lot 45 ,n V' 1 "- I
One other lot fitted at the diirnce ot 9 » from the
eifl fide of Eighth street, contaimug :n length ealland wfti
40 feet, and in breadth north atid fowh JO feet, fupjed to
a yearly grotnd rent of 40'- •• , |
I c 1-1. acres (according to the original deed) of ehoics
r.eadcw ground, with a trhari on the river Delaware,
Paffyunklownlhip, late the estate of the widow barker.
Three acres and 6 perchcs of meaoow grout J, 111 Paf
fyunk tawnlhip.
Any scrfoa inclinable to treat for the abo-.-e property at I
private sale is requcfteJ to enquire of George Cooper;
corner of raarkttand Fourth tfrccts, ;<uuh fide.
On Wednesday, December 7OG, at ia o'clock in the
.forenoon, will be fold at Michael Kins tavern.
Upland and Meadow Hay.
Nov. 29. • S:
FOR SALE,
A Share in the Ncn- ?lay-Hoit/cj
And an AXNUITY, on the life of a Lady who it .:
about 60 years old-—Approved notes, indoried, wij
be taken at fix moaths. Apply to the Printer.
Nov. it, 1796." ■ ' i neat
—' mvnt
jPhiladelphia, If at
UONPAY EVENING, DECEMBER 5 , 1; 9 6.
CONGRESS. ' h o a r l
.ri •. AiT. pursuant to the Confhtition of the V
' T , ' both Houses of Congress assembled.
£?£££ o.e member was wanting to make "
1 rj»|, c rcqaifite number of the House of p(
D q "° r ftntltires were present. Both Houses adjourn
ntil ts m»rrow, when a quorum of the Senate y
UcxpAtd. _ ?' £
/ EGISLATURE or MASSACHUSETTS.
Not. 26■
Themeffageot the governor, as stated In Satur- '
j Gazette, was committed to a joint commit
-7 v,„ vefterday reported in favour of a repeal .' '
„rS* resolution. The senate .took up "/ 3
°l X emt & by a very large majority detetmined !"' e 1
"•VSS* "J'™ « £
bit. so' Tht T*\"" ? f 0 f P
fete was fully and ably debated in the house, and
. l.ft iveiiine, it was determined by yeas and
!«., in <av«ur of m concurrence with the Senate.
' Yeas for concurring 57 ft , en
Nay* 1 . < purl
—T
The French doctor's dost begins to operate, but
in , manner the *<*! rcerft of what was intended,
' V nit wl sadminiftered. Symptoms of us opera- ad °l
b,"ki.g •». -.par » •»
* of » letter from Ctiarlefton, S. Carolina, /
dated 15th Nov. 1796. toe
« I ha« seen the decree which you mention that at t
Adet had delivered to the secretary of state. this
It is unqucdionably a violation of the treaty. Adet's Cer
..j r ,(i j, of the nature of a remonstrance, and his hou
" yilhins it in the newlpapers, is intended as an larg
I**ol to the people. He ta, don, what Gene, onh If 1
listened to do. This is certainly part of the fyf- aj.f
t m planned by a domifiic fxdion. The French d- tho
reSorT before they could have author.fed fiich a of
proceeding, must have had affuranees given them me,
of baing supported by a party j a this country. due
Extra*of a letter from Raleigh, N. Carolina, da- wh
ted 13d Nov. 1796. Fei
•« I f«el much exasperated at Adet's conduct— Ms
Hope, if it can be done, that the President will in- pile
ftantly fofpend him. Clear I am, that his conduct cell
it so difgraceful to us, unless punifiied, that we mull lefa
fink greatly in character." thi
— ao c
Chejlir-Train, Maryland, Dtetmicr I. ten
Ma. F»h*o, ,efl
» HAVING seen a statement in Mr. Bache « pa- —
per, giving Mr. Jefferfon fix votes out of ten from Hi
this state, 1 think proper to inform you t hat three ma
volts out of four on the Eaftern-fhorc of this (1 ste, ofi
bave declared for Mr. Adams, and four out of fix fee
. aie elected on Weftern-lhore for Mr. Adams, which m<
makes it seven for federal and three for anti-federal, tin
and not fix for anti-federal, as the editor of the do
Aurora would wifti to have H» IHc above is all- (ft
tbCTtic . A SUBSCRIBER. tk
— ex
One of the journeymen employed by the Ho!- g r
low-Ware company, in fabricating that species of 9n
Bymufafture, favors the public with the following If
intelligent rhapsody, in a Virginia gazette. so
When learned things ire p?.ft, P°
Some qiteJTonj may be alk'd. m.
* The present is called the age of reason ; —and If
things refpefting etherinl as well as the occurrances ha
-amongst men, are determined by this criterion. of]
History, whether antient or modern, religious or —
profane, if repugnant to reason ; eommoi fence ad
deems them fabulous.—By some it is said to he the if
agtof refinement s—lf5 —If this be true, and reason is irr
ellablifbed on a lirm basis, 1 will trouble the wife mi
men of the present day, with a few queries for so- wl
lution. It will afford the man of Jenie amusement ju
—the pendant a fubjefi to display nis learning on,
and the curious reader will gain inftruflion by pe
rusing the illupidation, if well defined. of
ift. Will future generations beleive, that Amen- a £
es, after bravely repulfirig the mighty arm of Bfi- ol
tain, and establishing her independence j—would at cc
this day, fuffer herfelf tobrpeftcred by n hord of t y,
ariftocratical deamcnj,daily venting their deleterious '
orgies with impunity,—rand preyed upon by the do
mineering privateers of that nation, which has al
rtady grown too impei ieua.—Alas !my friends, f a
does not the treatmertt of the unfortunate captain C(
Jeffup, rouse your indignation againd these infatia- 0 |
ble impofers. j,
id, Doe» honor comport w'rfh otielling ?—or I u
docs friendfhip emanate from gouging ?—The for.
mer fettles affairs of honor—and the latter, recon- j {
tiles the moA inveterate foes. h
BACK-WOODS. . f t
THEATRE.
It «+Jw opinion of rr.ar.y that the advance on ri
"the priuc.of tickets is a flep whivh will prove pic- ir
judicial tethe interests of the eilabliP-imerit. It is tl
a fnbjeS,'however, on which it would beunjufl to p
make up a Tafh or hasty judgnent. Thea6ting a
manager of the new theatre, has so uniformly dif- g
covered the most anxious solicitude upon every oc- o
rafion to raise the charafler of the American dra- o
ma, and such have been his prrfonal exertions in h
particular, to-promote this end, and the heavy ex
pences consequent upon these exertions, as to en
title him in a particular manner toconfiderat ion with
a generous public: and it will hardly be believed
that the ftcp ;he has taken, however obnoxious it u
t#*y appear-in the eyes of many, would have been ti
adopted had it not been dilated by expediency a
and necessity„ ti
A correspondent observes, that some perfon6
''"'t 1 inoS extraordinary method of reconciling
their feelings to the most absurd and unjutl concju n
fions—while every line and proftffion of life are al 0
lowed»o meet the enhanced value of articles of the 3
"ti ueci ITity, and the rife of prices in every bufi- t
fiefs by corresponding advances, the 1>
,ferfon» wiM)ft fate it is to be connefttd with the a
.theatre must tie condemned to the fame rate of re was
myneration which was received thirty years ago.— ,- 7 ,
It at that day the emoluments of the theatre were he *r
such as to leave the parties in fiatu quo, after many i n „
years pursuit of the profeffion—)iow is it passible He v
that the institution of a theatre can now be sup- ties f
ported at the prices then paid far ticke;s when the qusr „
rate ot living, hibor, and every charge attendant those
on a theatre is trebleil ?
enouj
FOR TKt GAZETTE OFTHE UNITED STATSS;
Mr. Fen no, cefsf*
You will much oblige many of yourfubferibers, »
as well as other fitizens, by publishing the enclosed p.
in to monow's paper.
t Rate,
To the friends of the dkama. had
Messrs. Wigiull and Reinaglc have opened 'heir ftreig
theatrical cireer in this place, with a pieee of po cone,
licy that, I will venture to fay, is as unplesfant, as don,
it was unexpected 10 the public mind. I mean the tnou:
rife in the price of the box and pit tickets—Rely. O
ing on the general rage for novelty a.id new per- Fren
forme«, and the liberal encouragement the citizens whic
of Philadelphia have always {hewn to lefpe&able ta. Adi
lents in any profeffion, they believe that Mr. Coo- fever
per k Mrs. Merry will be excellent pioneers to an ing,
encroachment upon our purses, which, though com in th
fhenced with some affectation of modesty, may be coe z
purfucd, upon the fame principles, to any extent M
—Th* managers pretend that the expenditures of appc
the theatre will not be supplied at the present prices, trv f
The firft queflion then is, Whether the mode now E
adopted is the proper one to encreafe their revenue, " A
and will it have that effedl ? 1 anlwer without hefi- b
tation, in tht negative. j„
As the theatre is much more than large enough
ta contain all who have hitherto attended it, even that
at the eld prices, do tht maoagers expest to fee have
this number encreafed by the advance of price? his:
1 Certainly not—The only mode of filling their is tl
1 house, and of consequence their coffers-, is by en- derc
1 larging and improving the entertainment offered— his 1
1 If this is done, at any leifonable expence, I will out
. answer for it, it will be found the only certain me. the
. thod of «nriching the theatre—Eriereafing the price bis
i of admittance, without this encreafe of entertain- ral 1
1 ment is doubly absurd—and yet it is the precise coo- and
duA of the managers—The company cannot, rvert afic
with the late additions, be thought comparable to or 1
- what it was, when supported with the talents of Mr. tog
Fennel, Mr. Chalmers, Mr. & Mrs. Whitlock, Mis said
- Marshall, Mr. Bates, &c. Where arc these lofles ftp- tak
• plied? I will not fay—W'-.re are thele talents ex- the
I celled ? More money then is demanded of u;, for fcls
I less consideration—From the general difi;outent at 4
this meal'ure that I find in all clafTcs and circles, his
and the justness and reasonableness of that difcon- the
tent, the managers will find the utter defeat of this por
left-handed policy, attended with very feriouslofTes tot
1- —-A desire to fee the new perfornleis (on whole
n Herculean credit this mad fchtrne is attempted)
e may draw a few good houles; but when this eif»i
---■, ofity is fatisfied or disappointed, I doubt not to
x fee the boxes deserted': and those people who for
h merly frequented the pit at will now go to 3"
1, the gallery at —Weak mrafures are generally 5'
le done in a weak manner-—lf the managers havegra- f°'
1- titude or grnercfity, let lhrm remember that thru' —-
the 'aft season they were supported entirely by an r:^
exertion or public liberality—" With fmcere re Eti
'• gret and great deference" I fay that t'nsir jJerform
ances in general deCevved. nothing bat contempt— rer
g If a good play was attempted., the charaflert weie
so wretchedly cast, as to affend nothing byt disap
pointment and disgust—and yet I cull tjjflJn the ' r<:
managers to fay, if they left by tht lift feafor.f —
id If, on the contrary, their profits were not very
et handsome—is they now have it in their power, to f a^
n. offer better entertainment, they are bound to do it p e
ir —and, I will venture to fay, they will find their vi s
ce advantage in the taste and liberality of the public, J a
ic jf they do bo: defeat it by this fhamcful and unjust re
is imposition—On another occasion, 1 will more mi- vc
ft nntely examine the reasons offered by the managers, c h
n- whioh are as flimfy and unfounded, as th. y are un- 0 f
nt just. HONEST POLICY. te
v -
e " The attempt tf> crush the trade of England is\
openly avowed by the French directory Confider-1 1
able proerefs is made in the execution of it, and j
our jacobin news papers, either from flupidity orl
at corruption already exuli that the neutral dates from! g:
the Baltic quite to the Adicatic, have been compcld jj
u ® ' by the French to shut their ports against the En
°" glifh, if they fhoald not meet with checks they wilt*
do the like in America. Already they juftify .the
'»• faithlefs and wicked project of pteying upon thet 5
'' n commerce of Amsrica with England. The eyes
ia- 0 f (bis country are not so blind, nor is it s spirit so
deband, as to acqniefce, much less to rejoice in this
or ' ufurpatien of our independent sovereignty, this vi- c(
,r - olatiori of u»t neutiality, this faithlefs and fhsme
lefs breach of a solemn treaty ? If the jacobins! 0
have a spark of eiNier feofe ar patriotism, they willl
fee, and will at last confefs, that French fucceffesjp
are no longer to be celebrated. When France bc-l
comes master of all Etirope, America will not beJ f,
on mistress even of her o'wn seas. Our ships must rot
re- in port, or fail only where France will permit. Is j
is this independence ? Fallen jacobins do you wish all ,)
to power to France, so that the United States shall lie p
ng at her mercy. Degenerate, poor spirited wretches, g
lif- j>o to France, and while you renounce your own
jc- country, adore ycur own kind of liberty al the foo« j
ra- of the guillotine—you will be at home there,
in here you are strangers and traitors.
•n~ . i
■ th PARIS, 15 Vendtmiaire, Oflober 7. t
■ed Severol journalists have announced that Jourdati
it was at Paris. Poultier has added, that he refufed
en to dine with M. Benezech. These journalists were
icy milhken, and Poultier, according to curtom, has
told a lie. Jourdan has not appeared at Paris. 1
,ns LONDON, October to. I
ng Li'rd Malmfbury, who is certainly appointed 1
lu 'nirtiiter to Paris, is son oi Mr. Harris, the author j
al of the celebrated work called Hermes, who, about (
;he 30 years ago, was one of the lordß of the admiral- (
jfi- ty, and afterwards a lord of the treasury. Ihe pre- ]
the lent lord, who is just fifty years old, was, in 1768, 1
the appointed secretary to the embassy to Spain. He
1 ' ' "' " .
wa* mr.de mini Her at BtulTels, and in orlo
1 77 2 » envoy extraordinary to Berlin. In 1776, Colu
he went in the fame character to Petersbutgh, and Eliaa
m 1784, he was made ambafTador to the Hague. Virjf
He was particularly inflrumental in concluding trea- Betf<
ties favourable to Prtiftia'and Holland; in confe- Dian
quence of which he was granted certain honours in Monl
those countries His lordlhip has had experience Betfi
enough to make an able negotiator ; and if minis-
ters are sincere, we have no doubt he will be fnc- The
cefsfol on the present orcaficn.. to
October 14. The
A vague account yetterday leached town, bro't Oi
to Deal by a veflel from Quebec, that the Pearl fr?- The
Rate, Capt. Ballard, with a- convoy from thence, w<
hail been taken by Richery's fqnadron in the The
ftreightt of Celleifle. This intelligence, we are J fa!
concerned to (late, is in part cunfi-mcd bv the Lon- Ci
don, one of the cQavoy, arriv.d vefierday at Ports- mont
mouth. " ' 46,
On the 20th ult. this convoy fell in with two Sa
French frigates cruising in the fireights of Belleide, diys
which captured' the Jemima, Progress, Albion, Sa
Active, Earl Marclimont, Sorrel and Convention, from
feveu of the convoy. We are happy in announc-! Bofti
1 ing, that the Pearl made her escape, and is anived do;
tn the Downs. She had on board governor Sim- i phia,
: ooe and his family. Phil:
Mr. Moore, of thpfecretary of state's ofHee, is S(
f appointed secretary to the commifEon in thiscoun- day*
. try for fettling Arpericar< claims. long
EMBARGO ONGENOESE VESSELS. Norf
, "At the court at St. Jimes's, the 12th of Ofto- 37,
ber, 1796, present, the king's tnoft excellent j day*
in council:
1 " Whereas his majesty has received intelligence A
I thatfome (hips belonging to his majesty's fubjefts dsys
c have been, are detatued in the port of Genoa ; Si
? his majesty, with thp advjee of hi| ptivy council, I *erp
ris thereupon pleaftd to order, and it is hereby or- B
- dered, that no (hips or belonging to any of
- his niajefty's fubjefts b« permitted to enter or clear A
II out for Genoa, or any poit within the territory of I dayi
:• the republic of Genoa, until further order: And 1
e bis majesty is further plrsfed to order, tliata gene- dem
1- ral emhargo or flop, be made of all Genoese Slips The
>• and vefiels whatsoever, new within, or which here- witl
n after (hall come into, any of the port*, harbour*, 1
0 or road*, within the kingdom of Great-Britain, j Bos
r. toge'her with all perfoiTs and rffefts on board the I I
!. fa id (hips and vessels ; but that the utmoll care be of ]
3- taken for the preservation of all and every part of I
c- the cargoes on board any of the said (hips and vef-j t
ir fels ; embezzlement whatevei be fuflained : I .
st •' And the right hon* the lmds commiffianers of j Oil
s, his majelly's treafmy, the lords commifliotiers of j
i- the aiimirghy, and the lord warden of the cir.qut I
is ports,- arc to give the neceflV.ry direction herein as I wc '
es to them may mfpeftively ?.pperthi». I
(e ' «W. FAWKENER." ]
IV I Wi
: > : 3
to BOSTON, November 28. j
, r . Yesterday arrived brig Salty,' capt. Blint-hard, j dri;
to 38 days from London, rhe pipers by her are to the I
Jy ijih Oft. only, which is one day later than be-j
a _ fo»e received—they contai i nothing very material I 1
—iMr. Sciiaw one of the King's mefiengers fc> ma
ai) off on the 14th with dispatches to the jßa
f . Emperor, fuupofed to contain the plan of Lord I
Tl M-tlmft'.vty's iivftruftions, and defiting the concur-I lea
rence ofibis Impeiial Majefly to the negotiation of bei
te peace with the Freileh ' It was generally under- I flci
p. Itoud that the Etnbaffy to France, would set out I 20
} le from London ott the 15th October. I *hi
- FROM LISBON. - l* 1 '
ty Capt. Dagget arrived here yctterday, after a pas- J®
to sage of 36 days from Lilhou. By him we did ex- j
lit pest a confirmation of the part of Jer- ,
eir vis's fquadroa—but althout>h he left Lifbon'five
it) days later than capt. Myrickj, (who brought the —
repqrt,) he heard nothing of the kind till hearri
ni- ved in Boston. He con&rms the account of a de- I
:rs, claration of War by -Spain against England, and
tn- of the failing of a large Spanilh fleet up the Medi-1
terranean.
GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES MARINE LIST, j
,nd PHILADELPHIA, December j. -
or AKRIYED. Day.
" ro Ship Eagle, Fofdick, London 49 ti "
f' 1 ' Brig Neptufie, Rhodes, New-fork ill ft,
° Lady Walterftoiff, Walker, St. Croix 30 I
*'1 Schr. Rambler, Weaver, Virginia 4
the CLEARED.
Schr. Har.nony, Spooner, Widiington N. C.
yes The (hip Eagle arrived last night from London,
1 failed from the Down* the 15th of October.
this T} ie ship William Peon dropped down to Glou- Jai
v '* cefter point yeHesdsy morning, on her voyage (0
m e " London, wheic (he i» to be coppered immediately |
jinsl of| |, er air ival.
W' 11 ! The Dominick Terry fail* thi* day for Liver-
CS ) P° 0 '- I
b'-J The ship Prosperity, captain Craig had ariired t |
[ from Philadelphia.
rot The (hip Fame, <-apt. Jone* wa* carried into d
I s Falmouth by a Etitifh (hip of war, and detained 15 c
• all days." Het papers being sent up to London (he was I
'" e permitted to go round, and wa* discharging her car
l'e,» go when the Eagle failed. J -
nwn Capta* Fofdick, spoke the (hip Factor, from
foot j New-Y«rk f or London, out 15 days,
but Charukstoh, No*. 15.
■) 1 ARRIVED.
Brig FrienrMhip, Clarke, Philadelphia
Schooner Harriot, Clarke, l\hode-lf!end -
Sloop F' >ra, Whitbridge, New-Bcdford
rdah Anna, sTand, do. j
used Martha, Noetham, Rhode-Idand
were Bojtow, Nov. ty
hat Arrived, brig William, Cheney, 4a days from -
1 Liverpool. Sailed in company with the/ollowing r
veflel*, vi*. / or
Rebecca, Stoae, Boston
nted Polly, Adaqi*,
thor Jane, Piince, Portland
tiout Caroline, Motley, 4°-
iral- Commerce, Delano, New-York .
pre- Polly, Drnmraond, New-York
768, Alliance, Wood, do.
He Rtbewa, Tborapfor, Ph^adelphia
" * '
Orion, Shaw, Baltimore S
Columbia, Town*, ' do.
Eliaa, Luce, Norfolk
Virjf. Packet, Willi, do.
Bet fey, Solomon, \V}l,-oin«ton
Diamond, Jones, Noith Carolina
Montezuma, Haward, James River
Bel fey, , - WifcafTet
. Kennedy, Bolton
The (hip Hope, Edgarton, for New-London, left
to fail when ready.
Tiie Eagle, Briard, for North Carolina to fail 20th
October.
The Caroline. Alden, and President, Barrington,
were not reported.
The Sea Nymph, M'Dougal for Philadelphia to
fail 20th October.
Capt. Cheney spoke the Polly, Capt. Brual
mond, mentioned above in loog. 41, W. and la«.
4.6, N. all well.
Same day arfived brig Apollo, capt. Parker, 41
diyi from Cadiz. ,
Same Jay, (hip Caroline, capt. Cutter, 37 days
from Havre. Left there, (hip Henry, Paiker of
Boston ; Nancy, Pepper of do ; (hip Cleopatra, o£
do ; {hip Dispatch, capt. Moulton, of Philadel
; phia, failed in company with Captain Cutter, ofr
Philadelphia ; brig George and Harriet for Boston.
rfSame day arrived (loop President, Finley, 30
dayi from L'Orient. Spake, Nov. 2, lat. 24,
long. 24, 30, brig Mary, Rich, 35 days flora
Norfolk, for Cowes. Nov. 7, lat. 44, 45, long.
37, 10, spoke the rttip Olive Branch, Sands, 23
I 1 days from New-York for Amflerdam, all well.
November 26.
Arrived this day, fchr. Industry, Dimick, 83
days Irom Rotterdam.
I Schr. Rebecca, capt. Stoae, 40 day* from Li'
, verpool.
Brig Delight, Dean, 40 days from Bourdeaux.
: November 27.
Arrived this day rtiip Sarah, capt. Dagget, 55
• I days from Li(bon.
I The Ventis, of Wells, ha* bfcen con
• demned at Cape Francois, as Eoglilb property- —
I The principal circumstance againit her Was failing
• without a sea letter or pafTport.
, 1 The Sally, Blanchard, was to leave Londotvfor
, I Boston, Oft. 10.
: Left at Portau-Punce id October, capt. Loot
r I of Portsmouth, and capt. of Kennebunk.
f FROM LLOVD'S LfST—O&iert I, 1A-
I Gravefend, ariived, Abigail, YtQit, Pliiledd'
I phia ; Franklin, Allen, Corneiiu*,
f I Gilbert, Tirginia ; Bedford, Coats, Boston j Bet
,f fey, Philips, Charleston : Sailed, Three Brothers,
, I Smith, BoMon ; Martin, Colley, Virginia j Hopir
s I well, Hutchinfor., Charleston, (S. C.) Callander,
I do. Eagle, Philadelphia.
I Deal, remain for, Charleston ; Caroline, Inglit,
I Winyaw, Richards, do.
Portsmouth, arrived Liberty, Robfon, Amniia.
I Falmou'.h, arrived Hamilton, Farral, Alexan-
I dria.
Ie I Hull, arrived Molly, Temperon, New-York,
e- I Dublin, arrived, Jafeph, New-Yorky
al Coik, arrived Grange, Miller, New-York J Bow
el man, Dickfon, Virginia ; Betley, Cunningham,
>e Baltimore.
rd j By an *rriva) from Ctdi%, yesterday, 41 days,.wc
r. learn, that War was declared there the 141b Ofto
of her, between Spain and England ; that the Spauifii
r- I fleet which failed from Cadiz, Oft. I, conlrilmg of
ut 20 men of war, 4 ftigates, and 3 (loops, bound up
I the Streights, had full in with and captured
I three Britilh frigates and transports of Admiral
j- Jarvis's fleet, and sent them into Alicant,
where the fleet all had arrived fafe, and that a
Britilh transport had been feitt into Cadiz,
I taken bv a Spanish frigate.
jH RAISINS.
Je- —
n j A few Caflcs and Boxes of Excelle»t Frefti RAISINS,
just received, ond for sale by
* Joseph Anthmy h Co.
Also a new 11 l-a inch CABLE, 120 fathoms long.
— I December 5.. flf
r * Cheap French China. .
THE fukferibers finding it impoflible t» fnpply th«ir
store with any more China from France, the price*
being too immoderate in the manufactories, give no
-49 t ice that they will fell at prime colt the remaining
II stock oa hand, confißing «f
30 Dessert Setts,
1 4 Tea-Table Setts
Separate Cups and Saucers
r Grdupes and Figures
Alabaster Vases
on ' LoJUijig GlalTes, ia gilt frames,
I Be fides India Japan'd Toilet Desks, Chairs, Table*
ou» I and Quadrille Boxes. PASQUIER Sc Co.
(o I No. 91, South becond-ftreet.
Ely I December sth. tts
TO BE SOLD,
rer " A Lot of Ground in Spruce-ftrect,
I Twenty-eight feet front, and 140 feet deep, with
red
the Buildings thereon erected consisting of two Houses.
This estate, whieh is opposite Mr. Bingham's Gar
nto den, is clear of every incumbrance, and poflcflioa
1 c can be given in two of three months.
For further particulars, and terms, apply to
was * WM. CRAMOND-
H Dec. <■ h
:om Genteel Boarding and Lodging,
For Two Gentlemen, may be had it No. 63, south
Third-street, opposite' the New Bank—Where any
number of Gentlemen may be accommodated in the
, • best manner with Boarding only.
> hl ' December <■ *4
f "d "Wan t e i>,
I A WOMAN of good charafler, to undertake the
. care of a child r and who would occasionally do other .
|' nd work in a family. Apply at No. 109, Spruce-fireet.
f" I sth December. T-V.
f - J For Salt at this Office,
for I Twenty-fix s, upon inte
ft°n resting fubje£ts,
1' a Refpcft'w the Revolution of America ;
Written in Holland in the Year 1780,
J" By bis Excellency JO H N ADA M 5,
orlt While he was loie Mtnifttr Plenipotefitiary from the
' o| k United States of America, for negociating a Peacc,
a. and a Treaty of Commerce, with Great-Britain.—
phia December 5.SWANK'S,
Riding School, Horfc Academy & Infirmary. I
Adjoining the Pablic Square, Mai ket Street.
T. SWANN No
RETURNS bis sincere thanks to those gentlemen by whom
he ha* bten employed, during his refidcnce in this City, an
flatienhimfelf that the faccefs of his cfFotis, in the numerous,
obstinate and dangerous diseases in Horses, in which ne as «
been consulted, togethe#-with his mdderate charges, will le- Ditt
cure (heirfutuiefavors and recommendation. Dr^i
He now begs leave to inform them and the public at large pj n(
that his fpaeious and commodious pcemifes, erected for the
jjurpofes above described are open for the reception of pup* s
of either sex, who wish to beinlirufted in the Art of Riding,
tnd the light method of governing their horfcs, so as to ride _
tkum with ease, elegance, and fafety—their horses will be
carefully and expeditioufly broke, for every parpote, and
tqade obedient to the will df the riders ; the natural powers
which are shut up vn them, will be unfolded by art, calling J
forth uniiorrnity of motion, and giviog 'o that noble animal m -j
all those beauties of action which providcnce has so bounti
fully bestowed on them. .
Also, at his hofpiral, every difor'er to which the horse is
liable will be Heated according to the julcs of art, connrmca J
by long and repeated experience.
The utility of the above infttrution has never been qneflton
•d, that it has long been wanted in this citv, every gentleman's
stud will manifeft, aud T. Swank as me toifl eitahliihcr ofr
the velerenary art, solicits and relies upon the fuppoit of iha
public (which he wevcr anxious in serving) to enable him to
Tttiflgit to perfc£lion. The idea of a fub(cription for that
purpose has beeu hinted by feveial gentleman, who wifli to (
promote the institution—the amount of each fubferip-ion to
be returned by ferviccs in any of the departments he profeffes,
agreeable to the rate of charges Rated in his hand bill. S«ea WI
fubfeription is now open, and the signatures of many tefpeft- <j
aWe gentlemen already obtained. He therefore injorms his
friends and fiich Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has not
honor of being known, that he sHall in a few days take In
the liberty of waiting upon them and soliciting their support I
»nd prott&ion. 'on
N. B. Horses are properly prepared for those Ladies and y o^
Gentlemen who wish to be inftrudted. the
Nov. 5. tth&f. 1
4 _ inti
RAN AW AT, J
About the ift of OAoher last, from the plantation of .j- u
Thomas F. Brooke, (in Prince George's county) to ,
whom he was hired, a NEGB O MAN, named C-fIiSAR;
year* of age; about 5 feet Bor 9 inches high; well (
made ;of a yellowilh complexion ; a little pockmarked: —
has, when fpok.cn to, rather a down look, and submissive
tone of voice: the clothes he had before he abfeonded
were of plain, such as labouring Negroes uiually wear,
but these he may probably exchange for ethers: he will '
doubtless endeavour to pass for a freeman, having, as I by
have been informed, assumed the name at Butier : 1 have —'
roafon to believe that he went to Baltimord, from whence ®f>
be is said to have gone to some part of the Sufquehannah, 1
probably '"Uth a view of* getting to Pennsylvania. A sirs
reward of Thirty Dollars will be given to the person who aje
-Kay take him and sb secure him in some jail that I may 'bo
get him again, if taken in this 11 ate, and Fifty dollars if
taken out of the state, and if brought home or secured in
die jail of Prince George's county all reasonable charges
will be paid by ALEXR. COVINGTON.
Maryland, Prince George's County, 7
and November, 1796. J Ilth*t&f4w
Lottery and Broker's Office, fb.
No. 64, South Second stkket.
TCKET6 in the Canal Lottery, No. a, for sale—a
Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
the late lottery.
Check Books kept for examination and registering, for
the City of Washington, No. 4, and Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information wkere co]
tickets are to be had, and prizes cxchangel for undrawn _ u
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public Sohoo! Lottery, for —
examination.
The fubferiber solicits the application of the public
and his friends, who wish to purchase of fell Bank Stock, o(
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
&c. or to obtain money on deposit of property
%* Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
sale at Ten Dollars each, which will be drawn early in
the Spring. "Jd
Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, j4u%iift 18, 1796. mth
Treasury of the United States.
OTICE is hereby given to all persons who are or
i > may be Creditors of the United States, for any sums
if tfce F.*dcd Debt, or Stock, tearing a present intercjl of Jtx
4tr eentamper annum.
ift, That pursuant to an Ad of Congress pasTed on the
lßth day of April, 1796, intitled an a& in addition to an
aft, intituled " An a& making further provision for th's
support of public credit, and for the redemption of the
public debt," the said debt or flock will be reimbursed and
paid in manner following, to wit. " Firfl, by dividends
" to be made on the lail days of March, June and Septem- —
" berfor the present year, and from the year one thousand ]
» seven hundred and nincty-feven, to the year one thou- •
M sand eight hundred & eighteen inclusive, at the rate of !
" one and one half per centum upon the original capital.
" Secondly, by dividends to be made on the last day of
" December (or the present year, aAi from the year one
" thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year -p;
" one thousand eight hundred and fevehteen inclusive, at t ; (
" the rate of three and one half per centum upon the ori
" ginal capital; and by a dividend to be matron the last 0I
" day of December, in the year one thousand eight hun- a .
•' drcd and eighteen, of such i'ttm, as will be then ade
" qoate, according to the contrail, for the filial redemp
*' tton of th said flock." -j.
2d.' AU diftinilion between payments on account o{ f r
Jatereli and Principal being thus aholiihed by the eftabtifhj j t
roent oi the permanent rule of reimbursement aHov« dc- JS
cribed, it has become necessary to vary aco«rdingly the
■powers iof attorney for receiving dividends; th - public t j
creditors will therefore observe that the 'following form
s eftablilhed for all powers of attorhey which may be
, granted after the due promulgation olthis notice, viz. v
JCNOIV ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that €
J •/
do male, confitulc and appoint 0
.'/ . my true and lawful At~ a;
tcrtcy,forme , and in my name, to receive tie which are, I)
erf Jail he payable according to law, on the (Hera 'defending d
ftocklJlanding in my name in the booh of (here defc-ril)Jßg»th« tl
books of the Trealury or the Commifiioner of Loans, tl
where the Hock U credited) from (here rnTert the com- ii
Sjenceineat and expiration ot time for which the power of
attorney is to contim£) nrlb power aifo an attorney or attor- a
mice under him, for that.purpose to make and fubpt„te, and to do all o
lawjul alii requiftefor eflcaing thepremfei, hereby reUAiog a.id r
nnfrming all that my said Attorney or tisfubflitvtc.fiall lawful
ly do, by virtue hereof. '( ■
In IVitnefs hertof, I lave hereunto set my Hand and Seal th? t
day of mfie year 3
Sealed and Delivered j
in presence of, c
EE JT KNO tVN, that on the day rf
rfir erne frrfintrUy came
■within named and acinnultdeii the above letter of attorney to be (
kit e&i amdditjut *• IT 1 y 3 -&-1. ■ 1
In (ejli.nony whereof I have here* ito set my Han land affn- (
tJ ticaf the day anlycdr lafr aforjaid. " ,
Given under my Hand at Philadelphia, thistwen- 1
ticth daycf july 1796, pursuant to dire&ions
from the Sscrttary of the Treafory
BAKIUKL MEREDITH, .
Tteafttrer of the Ur ited Siateet
a Jfe tlf
* '-\j' . ' h *'"V* -ii si'
For Sale,
By George Defchamps, No. 91,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels j-[
and half barrels Pot!
, Ditto Herring and Mackarel. Crea
I Smoaked Herring in barrels and kegs Brae
— Ditto Salmon, by the dozen or single ope of S
Dry Codfilh, from one to fifty kentaU ranti
c Fine ind cearfe Salt .in, a?
c Nova-Scotia and French Plaster of Paris, 111 the stone Hear
s and ground, for manure and stucco-work f
December I. . ?
c Horses taken in, japa
d , For the Winter Sea/on, bl "
g And fed on clover-hay at the Subscribers place, 1*
■' miles on the Bristol Road, where good (lahhng is pro-
vidtd, and great care will bs taken of them
ls William Bell.
<f Nov. lj. mwf»»-mthtf.
To be Sold, F *
"■ The Time of a smart, active Negro Lad, wd
Who hat Eleven year« to serve.
at. Enquire at No. 58, South Front street.
0 nhet 18. *
Sl DANCING SCHOOL. m ati
■a WILLIAM M'DOUGALL will open his school on Mon- Fasti
I- day the 3id inft. at ten o'clock in the morning, at hi* than
• Elegant hew Ball Rooms, P u^
ce In Fourth, between Chefnut and Walnut Streets.
rt Hours of tuition for young ladies, from 101® 1 o'cloek
o*l Mondays. Wednesday, and Friday mornings; and for
'd young gentlemen from 6to 9 o'clock on the evenings o
the fame days. _, _ N®.
In addition to a number of new cotillions, hi nleips to ;
— introduce a variety of Scotch Reels. O 1
Note. The firft pra&ifmg ball to be on Tuesday e- FR^
vening, the firft of November, and to be continued every Con
' Tuefuay, duri«g the feafou. fell (
For terms, 4tc, enquire at his house, N0.134, Market- kjn,
street. M
" oa. 17- tthl writ
re A Short Delay
, In the Drawing of the Canal Lottery, The;
ill In Walhington city, has been unavoidably occafion«d mini
1 by the unforeseen intervention of Mr. Blodget's Lottery N
re —but as the major pait el the tickets are now difpbfcd
:e of, this is to inform the public that the drawing of the Ca
ll, nal Lottery will certainly commence without fail, on the
A firft Monday in January 1797, and those holding tickets,
10 aje hereby rcquefted to fend a statement of those fold, and
iy those on hand. Wk
if NOTLY YOUNG,
in DANIEL CARROLL, of Duddington,
e4 GEORGE WALK£R, A
THOMAS LAW, that
JAMES BARRY, ed |
W. M. DUNCANSON. dire
rh« Printers who gave our advertisements a plaee in Qr j
_ their newspapers, are requested to give this notice admil
fion, as the remaining tickets are expected to be soon above
jjar, a»d we wilh adventurers to be tim«ly informed
_ a t».
in WANTED,
or As Cook, in a private family, o id
=•» A YOUNG WOMAN who can produce good rc
re commendation* of an unexceptionable chara&er. En
l'n quire of the Printer. t-
November 17. }t( a c
City of Washington.
k, SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11,
ls . / FOR THE IMPROVEMENT 0 t THE I
FEDERAL CITY. -
in A magnificent > dollars, & ?
sdwelling-houfe. ycilh Jojooo, are J ' o °°
1 & calk 25,000 40,000 r~l
I 3WT 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
— t ditto 10,000 & cash 10,000 no,ooo o > c
I ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000 „
or I ditto 5,000 & oaflv 5,000 10,000 ?, r '
m 5 1 cash prize of 10,000 Fo
k. » do. 5,000 each,are • 10,000
10 do. l,#oo - - 10,000 titi
he ao do. 500 - - 10,000 ,
an 00 do. 100 - - 10,000 ex |
is lixi do. 50 jo, 000 at
he 400 do. is • 10,000 ..
nd 1,000 do. xo - 10,000 8
ids 15,000 do. 10 • 150,000
m-
nd 16,739 Prize*.
>u- 33,161 Klanks.
of . X
;al : 50,000 Ticket*, at Eight Dollar*, 400,000 -L
of unt
>ne N. B. Tofavosr those who may take a quantity of
esr Tickets, Ihe prize of 40,000 dollars will be the La >T drawn or
at ticket, and the 30,000 the last but onx V J®'
j ri " And approved notes, feeuring payment in either money
,a ' l or prizes, in ten days alter drawinj, will be received for
un " any number not less than 30 tickets. p -|'
e " This Lottery will afford an elegant fpeclmen of the pri-
B P" vate buildings to be ereiled in the City of Washington ' in
Two beautiful designs are already feleifted for the entire at .
.®; fronts on two of the public fqaares; from tjiefe prawings Pil
'J 1 * it is proposed to eretf two centre and four corner buildings, Fo
as soon as poflible after this lottety ie fold, and to convey
them", when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in Stl
bllc the mannerdefcribed in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery. eo
>r "? A nett defiuflion of five per cent, will be made to defray
the necessary exp*nfes of printing, &c,K«nd the surplus
z ' will be made a part of the fund intended for the National "I 1
that Univerlity, to be erecled within th* city of Waihington. ®' ;
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are P°
old off.—The money prizes will be payable in thirty days
At- after it is finiihed ; and any prize* for which fortunate
are f numbers ate not produced within twelve months after the
drawing iiidofed, are to be conSdarcd as given toward* ')
>tht the fund for the University ; it being determined to fettle
ans, the whole business in a year from the e iding of the draw- P c
om- ing, and to take up the bonds given a* security.
■ r of The real fccurities given for the payment oi the Prize*,
ttor- ne held by the Prufident and two Direflors of the Bank'
0 all of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
ond mount ei the lottery.
oful- The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of
the late Conuniflioaers afEfted in the management of the
\l tb> Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake thisarduous talk
a focond time on behalf of the public ; a fufficient num "
ber of these having kindlyacceptjd.it it hoped that the »'
friends to a National University and the other federal ob- al
jeSs may continue to favor the design. p
By accounts received from the dißerent part* of the d
to he Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets r
have been sent for sale, the public are allured that the t!
drawing will speedily commence, and that the care and b
caution unavoidably necessary to insure a fafe disposal of fl
iven- th« tickets,has rendered the fhor- suspension indifpeniabW. t!
tlon, , , , SAMUEL BLODGET.
* , leket* may be had at the Bank of Columliia :of c
~, f m rnt H ®* I ' imore : Pet£r Oilman, Boftco ; «
4 J1 h " o P kia, • i and .f Richard WriU^
/ a Fefrj-.
*
Tames Mufgrave,
Goldsmith iff jsh^eller.
No. 41, fonth Second-street,
HAS iuft received an aflortment of Plated Ware
and Jewellery, Plated Tea and Coffee Urns, Coffee io,
Pots, Tea ditto, Castors from 5 to 8 bottles, Sugar and
Cream Batons, Bottle Stands, Balkets, high Candlefhcs,
Brackets and Chamber ditto, Branches, Sconces, a variety
of Silver and Plated Shoe La'chere, Spurt, fsV. (SV. war
ranted of the bed plate; I,adies and Oentlemens Gold *°
Watch Chains, Seals and Keys ; Necklaces, Neck Chains, (
Ecar Rirgs, Finger Rings, Lockets, Brcaft Stone ,
Knee-Buckles, with many other aiticles in the above |
branches. _ c
He has likewise received an cxtertfive assortment ot
japanned tea and coffee Urns, persian, blue, brown,
black and gold. ' . .
All kinds of work inthc gold and nlver line; miDia
tnres set, and hair w®rk executed as uftlal.
November 9. tu th & f
James M'Alpin, Taylor,
No. 3, South FourthJreet,
RETURNS his grateful acknowledgments to his
Friends and the P«blic for their liberal encouragement,
and begs leave to solicit a continuance of their favor*. W
He has on hand an extensive aflortment of the
Mojl Fajhionabte GOODS,
And of the belt quality, suitable for th« frifon.
At this shop Gentlemen ean be furnifiied withthe best
materials, and have them made up in the neateil and molt ;
Fashionable rjanaer, and on the Ihorteft notice. He will
thankfully receive any orders, and pay a prompt and
punfiual attention, to them.
November IP. '
Brokers Office, and 7 C
COMMISSION STORE.
N«. 63 South Third ftrtet.oppoflte the national new Bank. ,
SAMUEL M FRAUNCES and JOHN VAN REED,
have entered into co-partnership, under the Irm of ,
FRAUNCES & VAN REED, in the bufincfs of Brokers, ■
Conveyancers and Commiflion merchants. They buy and ar =
fell on commission every species of flock, notes cf hand, tef
bills of exchange, houses and lands, &c. ,
Money procured on deposits, &c. &c. all kinds cf
writings in the conveyancing line, dor>e with neatnefsand
dispatch; accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the
mod correA manner. Constant attendance will be given. T7
They solicit a (hare of the public favor ; they are deter- IJ
mined to endaavour to deserve it. cer
N. B. The utmost fccrecy observed.
SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES,
JOHN VAN REED.
Philad. APguft «7, 1790- ni&wtf
Any Person ;
Who is well acquainted with the River *
MISSIS I PP I,
And will give Directions for failing into the fame, —
that can be depended on, lhall be gen»roufly reward- 13
ed for hit information, provided he will leave the 40
directions with Mr. John Fenno, printer, Philadelphia, —
' or Edmund M. Blunt, Newburyport. 63.
[ November 3. lawjm
, ins
Twenty Guineas Reward.
RAN AWAY from the fubferiber on the 43d O&obar, t0
a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSES; 11 years
old j about 5 feet 8 inches high ; had on a mixed green n ,
coat, with a green velvet cape and oval yellow buttons ;
a striped vest ; a pair of dark spotted pantaloons, and co]
whole boots much worn. It is probable he may change ma
his name and dress. He has been accuftomtd to driving
. a carriage, and waiting. The abowe reward will ct ,
paid for fccuring him so that the fubferiber may get him
again, and if brought home all reasonable charges paid by
, Robins Cbamberlaine.
Eafton, Maryland, Nov. 10. 14 §lm»awtf
The Elephant
IS RETURNED FROM BALTIMORE.
THE public are refpeftfully informed, that
this animal is to be seen every day, from 8
o'clock in the morning till fun down, in Market
ftreet, No. ic6, south fi<te, between Third and
Eourth-ftieets.
Admit aAce a quarter of a dollar, that every ci
tizen may fee him. t' c
(Cj- At the request of many perfoni It will be
exhibited on eveiiings fropi five to eight o'clock, r
at half a doilar each.—Tin: room will be well J,
lighted. c h
November 7. d ly
Treasury Department, nc
September 28, 1796. fu
. XTCnCE is hereby given, that propofaU will be re
iN ceivcd at the office of the Secretary of the Treasury -
until the expiration of the firft day of March next en-
D f "suing, for the supply of atl rations which may he require J
rn for the life of ihe United States, from the firft day of
June, 1797, to the thirty-firll day of May, 1798, both _
days jnclufive, at the places and within the diftridls here- 1
or after mentioned, viz. At Ofwago; at Niagara; at
Pjcfque. lfle; at Sandulky Lake, and on Sandufky a
River; at Detroit; at Michilimackinac; at Fort-Frank-
lin; at Pittlburgh ; at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hamilton j
re at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-Jefferfon ;at Grenville; at
s Picquc Town and Lofamics Store; at Fort Adams; at
, s Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance ;at any place below Fort
e y Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Eric; at Fort
; n Steuben ;at Fort Maffac ;at any place from Fort Maffac
to the south boundary of the United States on the river
H y Miflifippi; at Fort Knox ;at Ouiatanon.
us If supplies ftiill be.required lor any posts qr place* not
la ] mentioned in this notice, all such supplies Ihall be fur
oifted at priees proportioned to tliofe to be paid at the
re pods before recited, or as may be horeafter agreed on
,y s between the United States and the Contractor.
ltc The rations to be Supplied are to consist of the fol
he lowing articles, viz. 1
,1, j One pound two ounces of bread or flour.
t ] e One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounces of
w- P cr k or bacon.
Half a gill of rum, brandr or whifcey,
«. S] Ore quart atld half a pint of fait."> 1
nlr'i Two quarts of Vintgar, ( , , . .
nK „ ' 1 re' > per hundred rations J
j. Two pounds 01 Soup, f
One pound of Candles, J
0 f Therationsare to be furnilhed in such quantities, asthat
the shere shall at all times during the said term, be fufficient
aflc for the consumption of the troops at Michilimackinac, Dc- t
im troit, Niagara, andOfwego, for the term of fix months in
the advance, and at each of the other posts, fpr the term of
0 b- at leal't three months 111 advance, in good and wholesome
provilions, ifthefame feall be required. It is to be un
thc derfload, that the ContraSor is to be at the exjter.w and
[ets risk of ilfuing the fuppliss to the troops attach poit, and
that all losses sustained by the depredations of an enemy, or
an( j by means of the troops of the United States, ftit.ll be paid
;0f for at the pricc of the articles captured or destroyed, on
the dcpofitions of two or more persons of creditable cha
ra&ers, and the certificate of a commiiSoncd officer, as
. of certaining the circutnflances of the lots, and the amount
' . of ths ajtitles for which compcniation ftiall be claimed
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Sa«ret»ry of the Treasury.
»
By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
t Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, Ar„ «
South Second-Jlreet.
' SCHEME of a LOTTERY
i For L raifln g Sixty Thousand Doilars, agrctably t0 4A
H LegfUtureof Pennfylvama, ptfed during .*
e tefTion, tor building a Stone Bricfge over the »
6 Berks' 1 "' 1 ' Borou S h of Reading, iu the County""
c i Priue of 20,000 Dollar! . U °Hars,
1 do. * of ie,ooo do. • . ,o >000
» 3 do. of 3,000 do. . J°'°oo
4 do. of s,ooo do. . . J' 00 "
to do. of 1,000 do. - l00(>
39 do. of 500 do. . . ,0 ,000
Bo Co. of 200 do. -
aoo do. of 100 do. - . lb £ca
300 do. of 5 o do. - i0 ' 0o °
1 do, of 500 do. to be paid the pofl?f-) °°
for of the firfl drawn no. I 500
$ 5 do. of 3,000 do. to be paid polfeffors ) *
of the five lafl drawn uns t '4>°° 4
* >£ d °- : " >.aoo
10,046 Blanks
'
I ,„ . „ 3°, 000 Ticket, at Ten Dollari »0 1000
\ All Frizes shall be paid fifteen days after the drawing i,
II finifhed, upon the demand of a polfeflor of a lortunite
A ticket, fubjrS to a deduction of twenty per cent. Tb e
Drawing will commence as soon as the Tickets are di'fpofed
of, or perhaps sooner. of which public notice will be given
Philip Miller, Peter Kerjhner, William IVitman,
Joseph Hi»Jler, Jamet Diemer, Thomas Dunda,,
Janus May, John Otto, John Keim, Daniel CracA
Sebajlian. Miller, Commissioners.
" Reading, Maythegth, 1796.
' Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. a, to be had at the
' pbove office, where the eariieft intormation of the draw
'■ ingof tf* Washington No. a, and Patterfon Lottery's,
[ are received, and check bsoks for examination and rqjjf
' tering are kept.
f O(Sober 7. jawtf
e Pater lon Lottery.
'• "C'OR railing fix thousand fix hundred and futy-feveo
- A dollars and fifty cents, by a deduction of fifteen par
cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a pries, viz
X Prize of k JOOO dollars is dollars joo»
I 1000 1000
t J 00 J CO
5 aoo locf
ao j 00 ifiop
9* JO 4950
r TOO tj >' J 000
• aooo 10 »0,000
5 Lift drawn numbers of rooo dollars each, 5000
• — .
- 1331 Prizes. 44,45.0
e 4018 Blanks.
1 '
6359 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44,450
By order of the Directors of the Society for establish
. ing Utfeful Manufa&ures, the of the Pat- ,
erfoo Lottery have requested the Managers to offer the
foregoing Ssheme to the public, and have directed th«n
"> to refund the money to chafe persons who have purehafed
"* in the former Lottery, or exchaoge the tickets for tickcts
n n this Lottery.
» The lottery has a&ually commenced dfawing, and will
continue until finifhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prize's
e may be seen at the office of William BlacfcSurn, No. 64
S Couth Second flreet, who will giveinformation where lick
'e ct» may b« prwurerl. — ' -
" Dated this 17th day of June, 1796.
X J. N• GUMMING, ~)
JACOB R. HARDENB&RG) f Managers.
JONATHAN RHEA, )
STATE OF THE WHEEL.
l Prize of 5000 ... 5900
x 1000 ... ICOO
it I JOO - - • 500
g 5 100 - - V MOO
ao ico - " »000
'"90 JO - • - 4500
a 16J 45 - - - - 4115
The five last drawn tickets, 1000 e<.ch, 5000
i- Being all the valuable prizes, besides a full propor
tion of the 10 dollars.
, e As the Lottery is coafiderahly more than one third
drawn, the value of the undrawn tickets is great
,j ly increased, and it is worth the notice of thofc
who hold tickets in tha old scheme, that the)' can ex
change their tickets for thole in the above, if they ap
ly soon, and at*a moderate advance considering the
now real value of an UDdrawn ticket.
The tickets being nearly all fold, the drawing in
future will be oftenet, and the Lottery soon finilhed.
c * November ia- mw *
r y — — ~~
a Washington Canal Lottery,
of N0 . I.
th -«TrHEREAS the State of Maryland has authonfii
e " W the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
a£ two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Washington, from th Fo
tomac to the Eastern Branch Haruour.
1 • The following is tbe SCHEME of No. I.
al vig -I Prize of ao.ooo dollars, ao,ooo
at x ditt* 1 ro.ooo
7 lad drawn 7 J 000 iSfi co
Tickets, each J
ac 6 ditto I.oco 6,003
cr 10 ditto 400 4,00 a
ao ditto 100 I >°°°
01 55 ditto 50 7S o
' r " 57 c0 ditto I* , 69,00^
he Tofceraifed for the Canal, a6,»s»
5850 Prizes, . i7J»o°°
0 11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17 coo Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,00°
of Thc Commifiioners have taken the Security's re
quKd by the aforefaid aft for the punSual parent of
The "rawing as this Lottery will commence, without
ins delay, as soon as tfe- Tickets are fold, of which timely
,0 Is are not demanded in fix months after ths
drawing is finifhed, shall be eonfid=r :d as relinquished fc'
s?wimtist*.
,in DANIEL CARROLL, o/D.
of LEWIS DEBLOIS,
me GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. m.duncanson,
nd THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
laid City of Washington, Feb. 11. 5
on
;^ t PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO.
—No. 119 —
CHESNVTT-STREET.
f. [Price Fi-ht Dollar» per Anaitm.;