States, &> Philadelphia Bally Advertiser.
Nf'MPE* 1249.] FRIDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 9, 1796. X.
Will be Landed T6-morrow,
7
From on board tlx Schooner Mo!lv x Chpt> Mullet, at
Wort ok'j Wharfs
31 Pipe* of Brandy, 4th proof, ~\
15 Hhds 4th proof Janaica R'im, / enti*fcd to
16 Barrels ar.d 14 Bags of Coffee, and f drawback. T
14 Boxes of Aloes, J
FOR SALE BY
Wharton,& Lewis. \
Whn have alfii ftr ftiL\ I
40 -Halt* pipes Madeira Wine,
And the said Schooner, 1
became f«om sea, burthen about coo
barrets; if not fold in a ew days the will
cake in some freight for Sal:m
Sent 8, 1796. 1 d 3
For Sale, <
Or for Charter to the Weft-Indies,
c et;. S,
J Philaddlbhia Built,
OF Live Oak and Red Cedar, burthen about 3500 bar
rels, now discharging at Latimer's wharf. A'his ves
sel is in excellent repair, wellfojiud and will bear a tho
rough examination, and as soon as discharged will be rea
dy to take in a cargo- For terms apply to ]
John Vaughan. 1
Julyiß ' g
for Sale,
The fliip STAR,
v John Vanneman, Master,
T YIIiG at W alnut-ftrset wharf, Philadel
—;vJ 1 i phia built, of live oak and cedar, will
carry about 3200 barrels, I» two years old, and in cora
plea.. order to receive a car^o— For terras apply to
sr • THD3.&JDHN KETI.AND.
Who have also for sale said vessels cargo—confuting of—»
Wine and Porter bottles,
Window G aft, 6 by 8 to 16 by Jl.
Pipes in boxes
Earthen-Ware in crates.
Grindstones, Coals, Whiting, &c-
Atig.l9 . 1' $ '
For Sale or Charter,
THE fast-sailing sHir
LIGHT-HORSF,
LYING at Mess, J. & R. Wain's wljarf,
two hundred and seventy tons hurthen, a ft out, (hong
weffel, and well found. For terms apply to
, } Joseph Anthony & Co.
' Sept. I. dtf
For Sale or Charter,
BOSTON,
BURTHEN about iooo Bbl». of flour—lhe may be sent
to sea at a small expence, her fails and rigging being in
very good order—apply to -
fames Campbell, or
George Latimer.
*9. . $
ROSS & SIM SON,
HAVE FOR SAL*,
EXCELLENT FOURTH PROOF
Jamaica Spirits;
And to dispose of,
V * The fi.ie, fait-failing fehooner a
sw allow,
Of Baltimore, about 140 tons burthen.
August 29. dtf £
At South-street wharf,
j
WILL' BE LANDED, Friday > 19th 'inft. August,
by snow Hope, from Jamaica, and sloop Sally,
from Portrau-Prince,
300 Hhds. COFFEE,
70 Hhds. SUGAR.
Also, tie cargo of the Swedi/h brig Guflaf Adolphe,
copt. Ramfre, from Gibraltar;
ift and 4th proof Brandy, in pipes and hl.ds.
Hazle Nuts in sacks
St. Übes SALT, far sale by
1 PETER BLIGHT,
>— ■» For Charter,
J - • The said brig
1 us taf Adolphe,
t? A Swede, with a Mediterranean pass,
~ _ 3"Very fine vtflel, about»ootons bur
then. Aug. 18. §z-weoi\r
Samuel Richardet,
Respectfully informs the Gentkmm
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEE HOUSE in the
city of Philadelphia;
The Suhfcription Room will be forniflied with all the
daily papers publiihej in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos
ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com
mercial citi<» of Burope—They will be ragularly filed
and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soup«, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
of French Liquors; together with the usual refrelhnisnts,
will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
the cboiceft of Wines, Spirituous Liquor*, and the most
approved Malt Liquors froir.London and other breweries.
The Larder will be supplied with the prime and earliest
produfiions of the Season.
Large ar.d fmill Patties, or single Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hours most convinient to themselves—a cold Collation is
legwhrly kept far conveniency, the Bill of Fare to be had
at the bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifiied, and
the utmost attention to eleanlinefs, and every other
rcquifite.
ig? S««oii Rjcha;.det will be happy to receive, and
, execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfelf that nothing on his part fhaltbe wanting to pre
serve that patronage \Vtth whiah he has been so dillinguifh-
iionored.
PhiJajielphia. April 19. «o
A Handsome, well-broke (
SADDLE HORSE,
For S'.le enquire at the C»nellogo Stable's, the owner
hiving no rfe for him.
Aug. it Bl&f2W
f Jim
Mordecai Lewis ,
HAS FOX SALE,
NANKEENS, long and (hort.
China, well aflorted.
Quickfilvcr.
Diapcet
Baf'as. ,
Coffas. (
Bandano Handkcr^Juefs.
Roll Brimffone.
h-ut. 6. tt&flm
Jul? Atrived,
In th« Snow Boftaii, JaW.es Kirkpatrick, master from Li
verpool, 1
jooo Btifhcli SALT :
100 Crates QUEENS WARE; and
An Assortment of SHIP CHANDLERY;
F O tt SALE
On board, at Pine-street wharf. Apply to
"James Campbell, or
George Latimer.
April ap. §
~Wm. HOLDERNESSE,~
No. 76 High Street,
HAS received, by the latest arrivals from Europe aad
the F.aft Indies, a well fele&ed assortment of Silk
Mercery, Linen Drapery and Hahertlaftery Goods; whi;h
he will fell, Whajefale and Retail, on theldfcreft terms ;
AMONGST WHICH ARE,
Some fine India muftins embroidered with goldand fdver
"Superfine Book, Jaconet, aadMulmul ditto
Do I do do * do Handkerchief»
Some extra black taflTeties.luuflringsand color ad Pcrfians
Bandano Handkerchiefs
Long and short Nai.keens
Engliih Mantuasof the firft quality
Damalk table linen and napkins, very fine
Silk Hoficry, au elegant aifortmint
Thead andl:e«on do
Umbrellas—green ftlE, oil's jo i.id do cfoth
French cambrics, very fine
Irifn Linens, do. &c. &c. June 14 5
FOU SALE,
WINE, London particular Madeira, 4 years old,
in pipes and hogsheads
Claret, gennineoM, in cases 1
Gin, in pipes, from Holland 1
Earthen Ware, in crates
Basket Salt, in hog (heads
Shot, Nos. 6, 7, 1 and 9
Bar Lead, Red and white dry lead
Steel, German and Raffia, in barrels
Anchors, cablcs, junk, bunting, tarpolin canvas,
* Tin plates —An invoice Stationary, by
THOMAS & JOHN KETLAND.
July *9 ; £_
At a special meeting nf the Board of Di
re3nrs.for eJlabli/Ijitig ujeful ManufucJurct, boldsn
at Paterfon, July 8, 1796,
RESOLVED, That a special meeting of the Stock
holders of the Society be called «n the firil Monday,
being the third ay of O&ober nit, at Paterfon, by &en
of the clock of the fame day ; then and there to t'-k.'
into eorfidcration the p'opriety of dissolving the laid
coVpor'uioii, agreeably to the Jew in luch cafe
provided—and the Stockholders are rarneftly requsfted
to attend the said nweting in person or by proxy.
August 17 • dt JothO
FOR SALE,
A Complete Font of Brevier,
'C'Ntirely new, and yet unopened. The weight of this ,
jL-i font is about 31a lb. It is from the Foundsry of *
Wilson & Sons, Glasgow, and will be fold at coll & charges. '
Alio for Safe, i pair of Super Royal Chafes.
Enntiire at the Office of the Gazette of the Unitde
States, 119 Chefnut-ftreet. Aug. 19 §4w
A very valuable Merchant Mill,
A DISTILLERY and BREWERY, and sundry STONE
QUARRIia to be let 1
I will rent my merchant Mill at the little Falls of Po
towmac, for any term not less thanfeven, nor more than a
eleven years, from the firft day of September next. The
milUhouf is 4 i by 40 feet, three stories high, huilt with
stone, and has in it three pain of French Burr Stones, two
overlnot iS feet wattr wheels, and Evans's machinery
complete, with every other thing proper and necessary f»r
carrying on the bofineft with dispatch, and at as little ex
pense as poflibfe, all in good order—From the mill to my
landing on the Fstomac river, (whs re craft, of any bur
then may d«liver grain and take in flour) it is about 40 ,
yards, and from thence by water to George-Town and ,
the City of W alhingtos, about 3 miles, and to Alexan- r
dna about 11 miles. This situation, aided by a fufficient a
capital, will command the produce of a very extensive t
back country, where large quantities of wheat and other c
grain is annually made, the distance to it beinij from 8 '
to to miles less than to any raaiket town up.-hi the navi- J
gat ion of tile Potowirac. The»e are on the premises a
large done Coopers' flup, a stone granary, .and a commo
dious miller's house. At the landing aforefaid a bridge
is now building over the Potomac, which is in great for
wardnefsand probably will be finifhedthe ensuing fall.
There are also on the premises, a Brewery and Distille
ry, built with stone, in them are three stills, two co f .pcrs
or boilers, with every nesefiUry article, aU new, and in
good order, and fufficiently large to carry on the Brew
ery and Diftillsry upon a very extensive plan. This prop
erty I will rent for the fame term of years.
Upoii my lands adjoining the premises, and along the
banks Of the river, where craft may iead with ease and dis
patch, is an inmejife q iantlty of building and founda
tion-Hones. Four, quarries are bow open, and as many
more may be opened with ease : the stone taken from thefc
quarries is better, and kas the preference at this market,
to any other stone brought to it. I will reut these quarries f
separately or tog -< her as may best suit.
On the top of the hill, and about 100 yards from the
mill, is a stone Dw'elling-houfe, large enough for the ac- r
eommodation of a family : also, a kitchen, dairy, fmeke
boufe, &x. and a garden, ene ofed and in cultivation, the \
foiof which is equal in goodness to any in this state. I ~
will also rent this property.
Adjoining to the Brewery and Distillery is a Smith's i
ihop, in which is a complete set of BUckftnith's tools, f
which I will aifc rent, and if agreeable I will hire to the
tenant two negro blackiiniihs, one of them is 3. complete
workman. •
li I rent out the stone quarries, I will fell three crafts, 1
which were built for the purpose of carrying stone : they' c
will altogether bring upwards of. 90 perch. ,Immediate j
possession will be given. For terms apply to the fubferib
, er in t(at town. '
The Mill, Brewer)-and Distillery, withthe'r appurten- j
mccs, will be delivered to the tenant or tenants in good
repair, and muff be so returned, at the expiratien of the
lease or Icafcs.
PRIMP RICH -RD fENDAtt.
AUx.i diia, Aug. j6—25 y. A .
**" •
LANDING,
From on.lxsard fte Brig REBECCA, Dominic Pivine,
Master, at Philip C*re'« Whiif # and for Sale by the
Sublc'iWr,
Lonhn Particular Madeira WINE,
la Pipes, Hoglheads and CaQts.
There are in the above 'parcerin iihds. of CHOICE
OLD fit for immediate use.
Robert Andrews, ,
Sept. 4. mw&f No. g6, So. Wharves.
C ABLE S,
Frorti i 6 to 9 i inches, for sale hy
Jeremiah Warder,
July 21 $ No it norrhTh-ftirdreet.
Saies of India Goods.
The Cargo ef the ftiip Ganges, capt. Tlngey, from Cal
cutta and Bengal,
COM*ISTING*OF
A Large and general aflortn'ient of Bengal and Madras
• COTTON and SII.IC GOODS.
AMONG WHICH AUK
A ■ variety fine worked.andplain Mujlins,
Doreas, Xsfc. .Also,
' A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
Jn boxes acd hags—and BLACK PEPPER,
For Sale by
Willings y Francis,
r No. il Venn Street.
Tune 8 * 5
T ——- —————————— -
French Goods.
Received by the Sally, Mitchell, from Havre-tie-
Grace,
10 Ladies' SHOES of all colors forts and sizes
I Cafe j
I Ditto white and colored Silk STOCKINGS
1 Di:t9 Fi-ic I A.WM
1 Diuobeft fine CAMBRIC
I Ditto Ladies' best fhamray and Grenoble 6!oves
For Sale by THOMAS & JOHN KETLAND.
Aug. 14 S
FOR SALE,
COFFEE, in hhds. hbl*. & bags^
COITON, of Deraerara, and > entitled to drawback
SOAL-LEATHER >
Also,
BOSTON BEEF, and Mould and Dipt CANDLES.
Apply to ISAAC HARVEY, Jun.
No. 5 south Water-ftr«jet.
> 8 mo. io.
Dutch Goods,
Received by the Pennsylvania, from Amjlcrdam.
GIN, in pipes
Morlaix }
Ticnlenburgs > In Bales
Ofnaiiurgs 3
Ha™en, } Stripes, in cases
Ra°vens d 5 } DUCK 'S« di «°
BcHti .ks, in ditto
esr ) <•*»
Fpr Sale by THOMAS W JOHN KETLAND.
■ - ... V. , . s
For Sale,
A Three story BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefr.ut
IJeftreet, betwe!'«i Front and Second ftrsets, in which
MeiTrs. James Calbraith & Co. lftve for many ye. .. (aud
now do) carried on business.
Poireliion will be given in one month, or.sooner.
For temps apply to • WILLIAM BEI.L, or
HECTOR CALBRAITH.
April tl. $
A Book-Keeper,
/"\R Clerk's,place is wasted by a person properly qua'i-
V_/ fied, and whose character will be found unexception
, able. Apply to the Printer.
. Aog. 11 tf
| DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT agreeably to an aft of Congress of the United
Siatei of America, patted at Philadelphia, the 28th day
* of May, *796 ; layinrduiiet on Carriages, for the convey
l ance of pertons, and repeating the former a&s for that pur
pose.—That there (hall be levied, cofle&ed and paid, Dpnn
all carriages for the conveyance of persons, which (hall be
; kept by or for any perfon,-for bis or h«r own use, or to let
ojt to hire, or for the conveying of paflengers, the; several du
ties and rates following, to, wit.
For and upon every Coach, 15 dols»
upon every Charioi, ie doll.
upon every Post Chariot, ie dots*
upon every Post Ciiaife, 12 dols.
upon every Fhaeion, with or without t6p, 9 dote
upon every Coachee, 9 dols.
upon other Carriages, having panne 1 work, above,
with Minds, glaiTesor cuitains, 9 dols.
upon four wheel carriages, having framed pofls and
top* with ftcel springs, 6 dols,
upon four wheel top Carriages, with wooden or iron
springs or jacks, 3 dofc.
Upon curricles with ;ops, 3 dols.*
upon c iaiTcs with tops, 3 dols.
upon chairs with tops, 3 dols. J
upon sulkies with tops, 3 dols.
upon other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols. ,
upon two wheel carriages, with lieel or iron springs,
3 dols.
For and upon all other two wheel carriages, 2 dols.'
upon everyfour whepl carriage, having framed posh
and tops, and relhug upon wooden spars, 2 dols.
The ColL&ors of the Revenue of the firft survey of the
Diftri&of Pennsylvania, will attend daily, ut\t il the 30th day
of September next, for the purpose of reeetv tag the duties on
Carriages, at No. ny.inßiice or Saffafra# ftreet,,in the City
Of Philadelphia, at the house of Daniel S. Clair, Cfq in the
County of Montgomery ; and at the house of Abraham Du
i bou, Esq. in the Courtty of Bucks; of which all persons pof
, seised of fach Carriages are de!ir<& to take notiee.
Notice is also given,
"TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign distilled spiri
tuous liquors, that licences will be grahted U> thejtt ;
' cenee for carrying an.the business of retailing of Wines, in a
less quantity, or in less quantities than 30 gallons—and orif
licence for carrying on the business of retailing Spirituous li
quors in* less quantifies than «o gallons,at the tame <imc and
at the fame places, by tfee officers legally authorized to grant
such licences.
I WILLIAM NICHOLS,
■ Infpeftor of the Revenue of the firft surrey
of thediftri&of Penof^lvania".
Ofßcr of ) S 3 #
PhiiacfcclphW, ft 111 July, 1796. >
70,000 Pieces J>'ankeens,
Of tbc beji quality and on,reasonable terms 9
FOK SaLZ 3T
Philip Nicklin fef Co.
Is. dtf
St. Croix SUGAR and MOLASSES*
Landing from on beard tir ichooncr Little Tom, Capt.
Thomas Dennett, at Race-itrjct vtbaTf,
A choice parcel of" St. Croix Sugar,
and a few hoglheads of MoialTes.
For Salt' by
Praters and C .
Augiitl jo dio-
LANDING,
Frbm on board the flip STA R y Capt. Vannev:an t
About j 50,060 bottles,
From Bristol— —For Sale by
F. Coppinger.
Anguft 31- , eoit .
Greet is Truth and must prevail.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And for fate at No- 41 Ckefnut-Jlreet by J. OR M ROD,
An Apology for the Bible,
By R. Watsox, d. d. f. r. s.
Bijhop of Ldnd.ijf, cjfc.
Being a complete refutation of Paine's
Age of Reason,
A«td the only anfv>er to the Second Part.
Aoguft 30. dtf
JUST PUBLISHED,
And for Sale by WILLIAM COBB£TT, bpptfte
Chri/l Church,
IVA t SON'S
Apology For the Bible ;
Being a complete Refutation of that bl.f
phemous work falfely 'called the
" Age of Reason."
This most eiceller.t performance is now in the o<9avo
size, on fine paper, ana at so low a price as tbt
<if a dollar, Which, it is hoped, will be a mean of giving
it an extensive currency among readers of every clala.
September}. *3'-
Watson's Answer ti Gibson.
JUST RECEXfED,
And for falc by J. OKMROD, No. 41, Ohefnut-ftreet,
Apology for Chrirtianity,
Jh a /trie 1 of Letters, addrejjed to
Ei>waii Gibbon, Es<i.
Authof of the HUtory of the Decline and Fall of the
Roman Empire:
By K. 17AT SON, d- d. f. k. s. Bifliop of LaneaiT.
(Price 75 cents bound )
Watson's Answer to Paine,
To be had at the fame place.
The *t>erniti tf li*h?ior, are a-wa/iJ / Lit not her
friends Jleep.
Sept. I. mw&ftf
TH/S DAY IS PUBLISHED,
By H. & P. RICE, No. i 6» Sccend-ftrect, and No,
50, Market street.
A VISIT TO THE
Philadelphia Prison*
BEING aft accurate and particular De s cription of the
wife and humane Adminiilration adopted in every part
of that building ; containing also an account of the gra
dual reformation ar.. prefer,t improved Aate ol the Penal
I.awf of Feftofylvaina ; with Obfiyvations ca the injus
tice and impolicy of capital puhUhmcnts.
Together with' an Appendix,
■Containing tables of crim*», and quarterly statements
of the expenditures of the Prison, with tiie amount of
the labour of the convi&s.
By a Gentleman of South-Carolina.
" Lay the axe to the root and teach governments hat
manity. It is their sanguinary puniQinunts which cor
rupt mankind." [Kigbts if jVfrn.J
Sept. 7. rttf
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
[Price one quarter of a dollar]
Embelliih«d with a curious Frontispiece,
The Adventures of a Porcupine ;
Or the VILLAIN UNMASKED,
BEING the Memoirs of a notorious Rogue lately in
the Britiih army, and ci-devant member ot an extensive
LIGHT'HNtiETtED association in England Containing a
narrative of the mofl extraordinary and unexampled de
pravity perhaps ever exhibited to tlje world,
in a Letter to a young gentleman in New-York.
14 Thafc things are strange, but not more itrange thaa
true."
To which is added,
A Postscript to Peter Porcupine:
Being remarks on a Pamphlet, lately published by him,
en.itled, his " Life and Adventures."
ar DANIBI DETECTOR.
•' I'll tell the bold fae'd villain that he lies."
Sold by A. & J. G. Henbirson, corner ,; Relief and
Cartel's Alley, back of No. 77, Dock-street, and by the
diiT-rent Booksellers in this city.
Sept. 7. mw&f
JUST PUBLISHED,
And for Sale at the /hop of HILLIAM COBBETT»
oppefite Chriji Church,
\ Pmht, entitled
7'be SWAN and the WICK,
Or the Treaty of Amity and Commerce fcOrnfully
reje£Ud.
May te ltd <t tie fume places
PORCUPINE, a print.
The BLUE SHOP, a pamphlet.
A PILL FOR P. P- do
' The IMPOSTOR DETECTED, do.
Sept. < 3
Evening School,
No. 201, ARCH STREET.
S. LEWlS'refpeflfuHy informs His friends *nd th«
public, that his Evening School for Yoo?<o Gmaau
will commence on Monday, nth September, for the
winter feifon.
Sejt.SS. d .4>v PRICKS CURRENT.
Philadelphia, Sept. 9.
PEK QUANTITY^ —DOLLARS AT 100 CENTS.
Dolls. Cts. O a llr Cts.
Anchors, pr.n. 10 n.ih,, Bd, 10/, iarf,
cwt ITS. and rod, per lb. 13
Ditto, Roch, pr lb. 1 r Nutmegs, per 11., II
Afies, fit per ton, 170 Of/, I'mfecd, plr gall. 133
150 Olive,
Arrtch, p rgallon, ditto, per erse, 9
Bacon, Shoulder,pr.lb. JO Sw.-ct, bejl, . •«
k'itcbes, . .IJ flajls, per box, TO
'Brandy. common, I 60 «£//<> 12
Cwu'fft, 15 <»«•'«, 7
BrnziUtto, per ton, So 'Spermacetiprgall 106
jfriels, per M. 7 " Train,per bbl. 18
J?rend, [hip, per cwt. 6 Whale, per gal. 40
D;tt\ pilot' 9 S° Porte* per tajl, 7 30
Ditto, fntaU -water . ——London,per dor.. 250
<Vr ■ . American do. host.
Beer, American,in . met. 2
tieper dozen, bot- Pitch, prr bbl. 4
ties included, I 60 Purl, Burlington, per
Jout,, per barrel, 6 barrel, 19 to 20
Hoards,Cedar^rMfeet 30 Lower county, 19
-..J—Heart, JO Carolina, 16
New England, 26 80 Peas, Albany, prbufb. 9 J
——Oal, 26 Pepper, per lb. 38
-! —— Merchantablepine,.*2B P imentt, 14
——Sap, do. iS Rai/tr.s, bejfper leg II
Mahogany,pr,foot Ditto per jar, 6
The above areihefballop Ditto per box %
prices, for the yard per cwt. 5
price price, add I Btl- Rof.n per battel 55 o
7ar, 33«7>fJ, pr M. Rum, Jamaica, p'r gal. 167
Brim/lone in tolls, per Antigua I 54
C 7 1,(. 1 6l IVindnuarJ I 40
Bsf,Bo/lon,, per bll.Z Ja 16 Barbados t 17
_i Country, ditto 14 » ——Country, N. E. t))
Irejb'cwt, £to 8 Saltpetre, per X-wt. 50
Butter per lb. 18 i 20 Sajfafrai, per ton
__ i„ tegs 14 M** 60
Candles Sperm, per lb. .56 Steel, German, per lb. 14
lY„x —EngliJh,bliJ}.pr ewt. 11'24
£. Myrtle If ale 20 —American, per toa 133 33
Jlfyuld tallow tSti 19 —Crozuley's, pr fdggot
Dipped 15 Snale root, per lb. 35
Chafe, En*ljjh,per Ih. y 28 Soap, brown per lb. Is
: Country tl«i3<— Ivk'te ( 14
Chocolate 45 i 3l '—Celtic ' 22
Cinnamon W Stert* 14
CWj I 50 Snuff,pr doz hjltlci JO
CocM, fir cwt. 1.8 fyermatetl refined pr lb. ,
Goffte, per lb. 25 '» Sail E'gfi. No.
Cod, per bu/bel, JOi 40 J, per yard, '33
Copperas, per cwt. 3 Boßtn, No. 1, do. 30
CordagJ, per No. 2, do.
cwt. 16 a 13 Sugar, lump, per lb. 25
Cotton, per lb. 33 "4® ~Loaf,fingle res. ZJ
Currants 10 — Bitto double ditto
Duel, Russia, per piece, 15318 Havannah, white 10
Ravens II 50 —Ditto brown 16
Dutch Sdil Duel 14 —Mufcovadop.cwt Halt 67
Feathers, per lb. 66 Eajt India, pr.
flax, , Jitte It 14 66
flaxfesd, .per bujlje! I. Sp. Turpentine prgalt. 66
Flour, Sup. per bl. IO 50 111 Salt, allum, pr bufhell 66
Common, 9 50 i IO —Liverpool 56
——Bur middlings, be/}, 6 a 8 —C-r'z A 60
A&oft /nfirn 4 33® 66 —Lifion 63
ditto Rie, 4 building IV. 0.
Sii/ »f. 3 67 per ton 22 67
Fufie per tor., 2 J . Ditto Live Oal, 26
Gin, Holland per tafe, 15° Do. Red Cedar pr foot
Do. per gall. i 93 Shingles 18 inthes,f> * (
Glue, per lb. 18 4 ,
Ginger,whiter die,pcrcwtl% Ditto 2 frci 9 t2 1
Ditto, common 16 3 fiet drepi 16
ground 24 Staves, pipe pr I COO, 60 f
G- feng, psrlb. 30 — whitc-oaihogshead 45 33 I
Gu powder, cannon,per . Red oai ditto 26 f
qr.cajk, ' 23 Lcogan 26 33
Ditto, fine glazed, 28 . Barrel
Grain,lVhcatPrbuJbl.soil Heading 44
Rye, * I Slins Otter,beliptpiece ■$ 33 3
. Octi, 60 —Minis 26
Indian Com, 9 oi 93 —Fox, grey 1» 0.54 (■
.Bar/fy. 120 —Ditto red 110 (
bejljkelled'pr.lb. ' —Marlins 50 ,
Buctwheat per —Filers 57
iufrel, *!S —Sears 3 1
Hams, pr. lb. 13 —Ratooni . 60 t
. imported, ptr —Mufi-rats, 37 v
i 0„, 300 —Beaver, per lb. 162 (
American, perlb. JO —Z)«r, in hair 25 i 33 .
Herrings, per bbl. , 6 ~ dr, A- f erf. 24
Hides, raw pr. lb. % toy per bbl. J
Hops, sO —Carolina, &g*ll. aSO e
Hothead hoops per M. 30 Turpentine, per bbl. 320 t ,
Indigo, French perlb. IA 1; Tchoctt, J. River bef r
Carolina, 1 lOO.'i. 7 .5 S
.Irons, fad per ton 133 33 Petersburg 6*650 8
Iron, castings per envi. 4 Pbtrwmac 3" J
~-.Pchnfylv.bar scarce ' Georgia 6 7 r i
120 a 126 67 ■Carolina 4<i 5 ■ -
Rujfta perton 97 Ten Hyson, per li. Ito 2 .
P/V 3* —83
Sforf, 224 33 —Souchong, i a I 13
Nail'rodr, 133 33 —Congo, 50 ti
pfrewt. J —Bohea, 35 fj
Lard, hogs per lb. 14 Tallow, refined, ptr lb. 14
Leadinpigs, per cwt. J33 Tin, per box 16 S<>
/rf trv, 7 P~ani.ii, per 1b.'40 a 24
»3 33 Verdigrenfe, do. I n
rtv/, 9 Verm'illim, 1 JO a
Leather\ foal pft lb. VaAijb, per gaUohy a
Lignum vita per ton, per lb. 33 -j
Logwood, 40 JVbaU*tone,t*tg v f>rfo. I%
Mace * per lb. II Wine, Madeira prtf. 226 a
I'.HackaYel, be ft per bbl —-—Lj/bcn y I&6 0
— ... —'second quality % 'fctierijfe^prgal. &c t
Madder y bcf per lb. SO Fayaly 67 q
Marble wroughtprfoot 6c I —Pe<j-£ IJO
Mast fpiirs ditto 60 -Do. W fott.pr doz .
Molajfes,ppre r gall, 56162 Claret,permjh *
Mustard,ppre r lb. 46 — Skerry, i>ergallon 150 1
——f.our, in bottles doz. 120 -■..■■■■ M&lnga, 84 €
dozen, I 20." I
To be Sold, t
A Lot of Ground, <
AT tlie fou'h-eaft corner of Market and Front-streets, f
extending on Makrt-ftreet on-, to tjie
house occupied by R. Aitkin and Son, aVid twenty-five
feet on Front-street, vith the buildings thereon—The
corner houfc, now ih pofTeiiort of James Stokes, is well
liYiown, hiving been many yeirs occupied as the mer- 1
<• hints coffee house. It i', prapoftd to divide thc giound t
into convenient lots for ftorcs, fer which, from its excel
lent fitiration for biifinefs, it feeni! particularly suited; or, ,
jfi>;oft agreeable to putchafers, it will be fold together.
For terms apply to N c
• Israel Pleafants, of
Charles & Joseph PleafafltSi x
Sept. 8. <Its i
' for iale by the fublcribers, ,
IK PENNTSTREET, j
130 quarter ChelU frefh Hyson i ei;
iso ditto do. frrfh Souchong Tea ; ' '
300 Boxes China, Containing small tea setts of 42 1
pieces -, c
' 400 i;ieces Bandanofs.
tVillings Francist
January 30j tt&f t
List of Prizes and Bi./.nks in the i r aJbmgton
Lottery No-2.
18th Day's Drawing Sept. 3,
'■ Nc. Dels. No. Dols. No. Doll. Vo. Dols.
340 . !354i 85028 3<3 C 5
3 4 qß 6qt to 542 20 jj 7 2
588 , BSi 9'3 4'"3'3t 10
, 665 14616 26530 *10
1651 6,53 801 104 41582
923 764 2 7><2 4837 4
055 10 '5540 9Sp 10 433
973 546 to 28138 10 824
» 899 10 383 to 43056' 10
88 15154 580 ago iO
205 173 to 854 00 10
0 140 20 219 *9548 44'7° *°
310 497 , 73' 10 ff l6
658 10 s°' 3''o9 5"4
o 818 17039 lo 665 7SB
0 980 118 Jtoog B*s
3190 18115 to 101 939 10
770' «9S J 9 "8 1 45 2 56 10
9'3 . • 587 10 »77 5 59 >°
4117 10179 10 «7i. 633
5'5 55 s ♦ 382 20 7^3
s"i . ,5«3 ? 81 816
637 10 692 <0 34207 881
6372 10 2 1222 to 682 10 eft I
697 >° 935 9°9 46229
734 10 22009 35087 263
4 7416 70 »59 10 471.59
8,495 83 jBo 20 481
9611 io jio .435 4® J 3®
760 i* 341 i& 90S 10 267
855 4°3 10 ' 99' 30a 5°
3 10071 482 , 36325 3^
7 577 812 858 784 >0
4 "395 *37tJ 37022 10 49">74
3 *2105 24042 to 193 »o 083
7 >3 2 ®5 '35 2 5 398 >1° . ?47
308 480 38194
* i®4 6 57 *• 773
ig h Cay's Sept. 5.
No. Dols. No. Dols. No. Dslt. N«.
J 4 8 3 ' "537 *3802 «j 35653 10
: 5 9 932 14308 50 801 10
> 596 12152 829 to 907 10
859 216 962 36309
"45 579 14 25>oi 4<4
'■ 2'8 4 10 581 "jit 10 ; EBO
\ 321 10 28915 10 37140
1 2247 149C3 29151 164 10
1 319 10 979 572 <)9»
» 399 9 8 5 615 10 36095
33°' 15*81 30113 10 394 '6
4422 399 »33 >« 2 i*
; 704 . l 6 10 203 664
, qto 10 17534 20 264 4°4 2 3
5182 983 283 659'°
572 998 S 2l 41915 10
, 6516 ic ifSoai )3» 4263619
744 030 31840 44?9 l
7901 20 559 32242 459? 4
8050 850 668 536
871 20653 .33176 1 46'5°
94.9 22278 742 914
960 396 i» 958 47">3
| ,0 8 ri 10 34 Gl ° *0 945
» u}Bg 1® 548 10 4906S IG
LAW INTELLIGENCE. .
COURT OF KING'S BENCH, JUNE IJ.
LE"W!S Vi AICOCK.
,Mr. Garrow dated this to be an action brought
for damages for a violent aflault committed'on the
plaintiff by Mr. Alcock, upon the huttings, at the
late election for the borough of Southwark, where
he had acted ns agent for Mr. Tierney , and, at
I he was then in Court, the Jury perceive,
from bulk and strength, that be was a
person oVer whom the plaintiff could have but lit
tle chance of faccefs, if. he had made any lefilt- •
1 auce.
1 The immediate confluence of this attack made
f by the friend of the popular candidate was, that
' the mb called out to have Mr. Lewis th.row(i down
from the huttings among them. .Tile jury ought,
therefore, by the damages they (hould give, todif
> countenance any proceedings at an <j!e<3ion that
went to hold up any man as an objedl of vengeance
' to a mot.
Mr. Carpenter Smith and Mr. Broadley, two
for the county of Surrey, who attend
■ ed at the hulftnus as-the friends of McfT. Thorn»
1 ton and ThellufTon, said, that ihey saw the de
fendant collar the plaintiff, for the purpose of drag
ging hifti away from the huttings, lifting that,
as he was not an eledor, nor a clerkt, he had no
right to be- there. Upon this the plaintiff was ap
pointed a check cleik, that,he might be qualified
to remain where he was, and aflitt Mr. Thornton.
' Mr. Thornton was then called ; he said the plain
tiff did attend th? hufttiTgs at the desire of his af
tifttng cotftmittef tnatl..
Mr. Brfkine made an able speech for the defend
ant ; he thought the fuccefsful candidates ought to
have been contented v. ith gaining their eleSion,
1 and not have forwarded such a contemptible aftiotr
as the present agaijilt the agent of Mr. Tierney.
Th#plaintiff had no right to go to the Huttings,
as not being a voter; by doing so, he becafne one
of the mob ; and the right to Choose Reprefenta
> tivtg in this free country mud be done awav, if un
1 qualified men, who thus intermeddled in elections
1 were not exchlded. He cotild not deny that an as
fault had been committed, according to law ; but
> it . was of such a nature, add ""attended with such
1 circumttances, that he trusted not more than one
(hilling damages would be given.
Aftei two or three words from Lord Kenyon,
the jury retired, and remained deliberating for a
cijofiderable time: at length they gave a vevdift
i for the plaintiff damages ONE SHILLING.
; June 17.
GOObCHILB V. rit-tiTOH.
1 This action was brought by the plaintiff, \vho
■ lives at Walton-upon-Thames, to recover ithe sum
i of- iool.
Mr. Garrow, who opened this Cafe, observed,
he had been informed the defendant was a mer
chant of the city of -London, thbogh he could
hardly believe it. The ctrcumflaUces of the cafe
wete fingiilar, and such as, for the honor e>( thevity
of London, were seldom heard of in Guildhall.
In confluence of some previous acquaintance
the plaintiff one day called upon the defendant and
found him very much out of fpiritv He enquired
the can ft; of it. Mr. Preflon told him he had
t been disappointed. The comrtiiflioners of the ex
cise had refufed topay him for fome'rum, and un.
less he could r:ife 200!. in thecourfedf that clay,
be was afiaid he {hould be ruined. Upon' that,
the pUiatiff took a piece of paper and immediately
give him 2 Jtaft upon his bankers for the fan of
r \ jool- This money was '<&> be returned m the ip::CL
of fix week). The defendant was fu (truck tfith -
that asor generality, that he infixed he mic-htbe i
•vj # ;itted to give Mr. Gondchild fame fccurity for
the re-payflient of it. The plaintiff ioid him he >
wanted no security, and if lie did not thi .k bun s -
man of honour, on wbofevrord lie could fafely re- <
Iv, he would not trust him on his bond. When i
the fix weeks had elapsed, the plaintiff called on
the defendant for his money. Mr. Preston .told him i
it was inconvenieat at that time to pay it ; but !
prosnifed'over and over again te pay it. A< la«, .
however, to the utter astonishment of the plaintiff,
Mr. Preston had the boldness to tell him he had (
neyer lent him any mo'iey ; that he had never been I
hit creditor for a farthingi and that he wouL not
pay him. .
The learned cotmfel ohferved, if he fore this cause i
Was brought, the defendant had any charaftfir that
was of to him, he would footi fee wheiher he
had made a pood bargain in this cafe, by endea
vouring to fhift off the payment cf tins.ffloney.
The draft was paid by the plaintiff's bankers. ■
He fair*, he (hould lay such a body of evidence be- i
fdre the juty, that if it were a fjueftion, whether (
Mr. Preston had dole that draft which he had re- !
eefved from the plaintiff, and were to be fubje&ed i
to a capital ptlviiflnnent for the Sealing of it, he <
coulc! have no possible defence. He should prove <
thnt draft was paid to the defendant by the piain- j
tiff's bankers On the day on which it was dated —- t
He.(hould (hew by what bank note they had paid J
it. He Ihould (hew that that bank note, on the
fame day, was carried to Mr. Prefto'i's baiiker ; (
and he should tfiat" it came into his bank- |
er's hands through his (Mr. Prettoir's) hands that
day. If necessary, he colild identify that bank
note still farther. j
This was as gross an inltance of ingratitude as (
ever appeared in a Court of Justice. There Was j
also a bill in Chancery on this bufisefs, but the j
defendant fvvore through it.
One of ;he clerks of Messrs. Langfton and Co.
(aid Mr. Goodchild kept money at their house ; 1
and that on the 30th of O&oSer, 1794, they paid :
the plaintiff's draft with the bank note 7°4> '
dated O&ober 20th, 1794. The draft was here
read, and was in tbefe words: " London, Odto- ;
b?r 30th, 1794, pay Mr. Thomas-Preiton or bear. 1
er two nundied poilnds." « I
One of the clerks of Messrs. Prefcot and Co. j
find Mr. Preston kept money at their house ; that (
in the afternoon of O&ober 30, J 794, they re» ]
ceived through the hands of the defendant, the 1
bank-note Na. 704. The learned edunfel was pro- 1
ceeding Aill farther in his proof, when the noble |
and learned judge aiked what answer was to be •
given to this cafe ? 1
Mr. Mingay, counsel for the defendant, said he <
had no witness.
Lord Kenyon said, there Was then an end of it,' 1
To be fute such a cafe was never brought into a •
court of juflice Verdict for plaintiff, including
1 two years interest, 2161. ,
From an Englijh Paptr. \
; The Hereditary Prince of Wirteriberg has the
advaMageof being perfoaally known to the Royal j
family, from his having past an whole winter in 1
London, when he wag a constant visitor at St. j
■ James's. He was married to the King's cldeft
niece, the Princess of Wales's filler, but (he is since
■ dead.
The Marchioness of Buckingham has been inde
-1 faigable in her active protection of the poor Emi.
, grants.—She has now begun a Subfcripiion for the |
Priells, and has ascertained' the melancholy fact, ,
that, fines Government stopped its payments to
: tbefe miserable men, eighty.seven of them have lite- ;
rally perished for want 1
Faro.—The fafhionable hod of Faro are at this ]
moment ynder a legal blockade : jfnd information
has been hid against Mrs. S—t's, as a difordcrly ,
house, for fuffering card playing therein, coati'ary |
to the (latute i and bail has been entered into fofan j
appearance *in the Coui Is of Weftmirifter, to an
swer the charge of this nvfdemeanor, A similar
information is. lodged against the Countess of |
6 's ; Lady A. and Mrs. C—n—n are prick
ed down as next in fucctflion, to answer for the
pi*us orgies with w.hich they have so long tloftd
their Sunday evenings !
EDWARD GIBBON, ES<^
THIS great hidorian, descended from an anci- ,
ent family in the wilds of Kent, was born at Put- J
ney in Surry, on the Bth of May, 1737. His in
fancy was marked by great coiporeal weakness and j
infirmity ; but an attachment to arithmetick, at a
very early period, which rendered him capable cf
multiplying and dividing two ferns of fevtral figures '
by memory alone, seems to have,denoted a vigorous '
mind. His education was partly received at home,
partly at Bath, and other places, where he resided
for the reftoraiion of his health, and partly at Weft,
mii>fter. In April 175 2, he went to Oxford,
where he remained but a Ihort time, in consequence I
of his having embraced the Roman CathtJic reli- (
gion. He was now sent to Lausanne, in Switaer- ]
land , where, under the t'uition of Mr. Pavllliard, a
Calvinift minister, he was not only made a*good
claCical scholar, but teftored to the Protestant faith.
To this bani(hment, Mr. Gibbaa acknowledges
that he owed whatever has been the fruits of his
education. He returned to his falher, who was
now retired to his feat at Buriton, Hants, in 1758 ;
and was received with every mark of parental af
fection. After tefiding at home about five years,
during which time he became a captain "of the
Hampshire militia, his father heing major, he a
gain vifcted the continent, and made Hie tour of
France and Italy. It was while he fat contem
plating amidst the ruins of the capital of Rome, on
the evening of the 15th of Oitober, that
that the idea of writing the Decline and Fall of
that city, firft started to his tnind. More mature
deliberation extended it to the Fall of the Roman 1
Empire, which he has so nobly completed in his fix '
volumes, 4he three last of which Were publifted on '
1 the 5 tft aOniverfaFy of his birth-day, May, 1783.
, Tlie greater part of this wojk was completed dur- !
ing a retirement of some.years in Switzerland, after
f the abolition of*lhe Board of Tt*de, of wliich'M;.
Gibbon, then in Parliament had been appointed
1 one of the Lords Cummifli.iners, by the recoin
mendartion of Lord Chancellor Loughborough.
In I 793' h e over to condole with his ffluf
t trioUs and uartKil friend, Lord
i death of that nobleman's excellent lady; and lie
- died the 13'h of January, 1794, at his
1 in 3t. James's 'tteet.
1 His remains were deposited in li, fa.
1 mily burial-place, in SufTex ; and hin lor..i(7?{p
t honoured Mr. Gibbon's memory, by becoming t} lt
, editor of his Mifcellaveous Works, including ;) ie
, Memoirs of his own I.ife. Notwuhftarrding the'
1 exalted abilities of our chief hide iani, " thole who
1 have enjoved the society of Mr. Gibbon," fjys
; Lord Sheffield, " will agree with snc, that his run.
verfation was, Hill mote captivating than his writ
: ings.""'
PARIS, June 20.
Yeftetdav between the hoars of one and two, a
man was arretted in the PaWe,of Equality, of the
name of Jourden, who.had diftingt:i!hed himfelfas
• one of the most zealous of the terrorists. He wa*
formerly drum major to the Revolutionary afTy, and
is said to be 1 elated tw the celebrated Jourdan
■ Coupe-Tete. The people were highly pleafcd at the
event. But we ate neverthtlefs allured, that the
police have released him provisionally, on condition
that he shall not,make his appearance again at the
Palais d'Egalile,
The ivport of Peace had raised the mandats, the
day "before yfietday, to -9 1-2 per cent, bi* they
have since fallen to their ordinary rate, that is eight
per cent.
If lettefc from Agde may be credited, 4 terror
ids who had made themselves notorious in that
' county, have assassinated the Spanish Cotiful, on
his return from his c'ountry house. The aJlaffin*
have fled.
General Hoebe has inlotmed the Dire<ftory,;tliat
, within a month, the department of L'Oiue will be V
as tranquil as any of those departments which have
; already ftibniitted.
It is with pleasure wehave seen Cambaceres again
ascend the tribune within lhefe few days. He
• was grossly calumniated by a herd of ambitious in
triguers, after the 13th Veudemaire, who vvirtjed
■ to exclude him from the I)iredtory> whither he was
called by the public; voice. The interval which hag
parted (ince that period, has not, however been loft
to the public: it has beeYi devoted to the prepara
tiorr of a civil code, a work of great extent and con*
fiderable importance, which is now in the Press, and
which will be the .mean's of destroying 'hat motkjr
legislation, which resulted from the caprice of the
various factions which alternately cquvulfed thecon*
vention, and incelfmtly harrafTed the country in
the name of the legislative body. The party of
wife and enlightened deputies is thus about to be
strengthened by the talents and influence of a virtu
ous man, who, tho' long in po{Tolt«n of gre.it pow.
er, never did an injury to any one, nor violated the
laws of reason and probity.
: Poultier in the Ami des Loix, endeavor to turn
' into ridicule the precautions taken by (he pfrcc
-1 tofy and by Cochon, for fruftratiog the eVcrafttve
■ manoeuvres of the friends of Babqpuf,
1 • ,
WINCHESTER, (Virg.) Sept. 2.
It is with a degree of forrov seldom experience!
" by the editor hereof, that he enters upon the rect
> tal of the following melancholy event. —A fewdayt
1 -ago an unhappy difputetook place al Bath, between
a Captain Randolph and another gentleman, whole
name we have not heard ; that a challenge was lent
1 by th<; latter to the formpr, of which a Captaia
1 Thomas was the beare» j that Captain refilled
the challenge, and threw the note on the ground,
fignifying at the fame time, that he did not think
1 his opponent upon an equality with him. The'be
haviour of Captain R. irritated Captaia Thomss,
who also dared him to combat, which was refuted
by the former on the fame score. A day or two
afterwards, Captain Thomas was boasting in com
' pany that he had frightened some of the Caritincri
' tals—This behaviour drew down the vengeance of
M?.jor Blackburn,'who very uiifoitunately happen
ed to be present i his refcntment knew no bounds.*—
He assailed Captain Thoma«, and (Oh! that we
" could break off here ( but, alas ! thefequel, mourn*
ful as it is, mud be difclefcrd) with a dirk, put a
period to h'sexillencel The unhappy Major Black
burn is committed to prison at Martiolhurgh.
p A few days ago. Mr. Jefle Thornton, hatter, of
of Richmond, put an end to his existence, by flab
. bing himfelf with a knife.
| INDIA SALES.
ON TWfday the 2id inft. at 10 o'clock, A. M. will
be fold at the stores of Willing* and Franci6, a large
' quantity of INDIA GOODS, imported in the Gai)£<»,
from Bengal* Confuting of 9 ,
1 30S0 pieces Gu'rrahs
I aooo do. different kinds
3500 do. -Coffas, do.
; 4,50 do. Humhu&xs,do.
too do. F'atna hdkfs. for women
100 ho. Addaiies
100 do, black and coUtcd Persians or Tafletits
1 1 aco do. Bandannoesj,'chocelate, red blue
lso do. Chwppa Romals .
f 40 quarter casks of Hyson Tea of .goadq^'ty
40 Souchong
■ The coarse goods vail be fold by the bale» the ta etw
1 I andbandaui)o4£iwi lots to fuitthe purchaier** tiy tc^ 9
• I the chclt. The Vvhole is entitled to the ...
| be fold for approved notes, on a liberal credit.
| Thegood&m£.y be fcea from the ijthilift. to 1 1 <: "*-
' ] previous to the lales
JOHN CONNELLY, Mlotieor.
V**. ■ 'Philadelphia,
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1796.
~ c
* Married - 'aft evening, by the Rev. Morgan J.Rliees, /
Dr. Joseph Strong, o'f Hartford (Connecticut) to Mis»
Rebecca Younc, of thiscity.
AUTHENTIC. i
\ ...
Tie following is an extract of a letterfrom Captain
JiMkS B'ruff to the Secretary of War, dated r
" Pojl of Niagara, Augujl 20, I 796.
" My last informed you of the evacuation of Of
• • wf.'o, and ps it# bein>r trk> n p. ffeffion of (by the
detachment I have the honor to command) on the '
j 4 th July t
" [ now nave the additional honor to inform YO3,
that after boing detained near a month, for the ,
means of tianfportation, and after making an at
tempt with fix Bafteaux, atid being cast away, and
regaining that post ; 1 embarked on the jth Atiguft
1 with 50 men, the artillery, ammunition, and the ,
principal part of the stores on board the Kingston
Packet of about 50 tons, (which Coittra&or
O'Hara had procured for us,) aird on the 10th in
the afternoon, bting in fj£'l)t of Niagara, difpatch
td a boat with an officer to the Brisifh comman
dant, with notice-os the approach of the advance c
troops of the "United States, destined to receive
possession of it ; and about fun set came to at a mile
diflarice from the Fort, when I received hisanfwer,
an*} an offer of immediate possession. 1 accepted, "
and my guard under officer march
ed in, on captain Sheffs marching out ; His ftrjeant '*
attending mine in polling the sentries, &c. The £
next day in the forenoon, the artillery, stores, and
the reft of the men were landed in time to display 1 c
the flag of the United States, under a "federal fa- '
lute, bv 3 o'clock.
" I was visited in the morning by Captain Sneff, *
who was so polite as to walk round the works, a/id
* give me every information necessary for a relieving,
officer. »
Confirmation of the capture of one of Captain barney's
frigates. '
By a gentleman who arrived last night from the '
southward we have the following account : 1
, On Saturday last arrived at Alexandria the Pomona, I
Captdin Heywood, in 36 days from Cadiz, who was
broHght to on Thursday morning the ift inft. by the (
squad' on cemmanded by Admiral Murray ; who after
causing h 3 paper* to be infpeAed, dismissed him, in- (
forming him, that he had taken one of Barney's vef- '
fels after a long chacc, which teegan Monday '
morning, and had then Only just finifhed. ;
Captain Heywood left Cadiz July 27th, at which
time hat place was in immediate expectation ef a
with Great Britain. 1
A Boston paper contains the following article :
<£ Accounts from Cayenne inform, that the famous
* Collot D'Herbois and Btt-tAup Varennes have
died suddenly in, that Colony.
A gentleman who ferved'two years in the French
army, From 1793 to '95 fays, that the.soldiers ha.ve
always fared better than the ciiizenn—that thete
is no regular issuing of ration9,clothing or other sup
plies to the army. The soldiers receive from the
magazines established whereevera body of troops is
stationed, every artiqlc they want.and appTy for, lo
long as there is any thing to issue. They draw
cloathing, bread, meat, brandy, &c. as they want
them, in such quantities as they plcafc—and being
fully fed and supplied, contented and hap
py without receiving one sous in ca(h for months to
gether. This mode of procedure, tho'it renders
the army the most agreeable situation, has increased
the expencesoi the war immeasurably—and rhutl be'
departed from eventually, which, however can only
be done by degrees,-.
The followisg article from a London Paper, is ap
plicable to more places than one.
Our rivers are inexhaustible, and that Fish, an ar.
ticle which,, from ite nutritive quality and abun
dance, islo wi?ll calculated to lessen the-coflfumpti
®n of btitcliers'-meat, (hould, from the high price
at which it is retailed, be«lmoft wholly confined to
the tables of the opulent and luxurious, is a re
proach to the country.
-■ — -
4 Washington Lottery.
THE Eighteenth and Nineteenth Days' Drawing of
the Waftington Lottery, No. a, are received at the office
No. 134, Market-flreet, where tickets may be examined.
N. B. Information given where ticket in all the other
lotteries may be procured.
September 9, 1796. df
INFORMATION ~~
IS given daily of .the drawing of tb? WASHINGTON
LOTTERY, at the Office
No. 147 Chtfnut-Jlreet,
between Fourth and Filth streets. Also, where Tickets
may yet be had. Sept. 9. eo
The Eighteenth and Nineteenth Days drawing is
arrived.
Plans of the city of Philadelphia,
Including the Northern Liberties and tiiflritt of
Southwark,
Published, and fold by
BENJAMIN. DAVIES,
No. 68, High street,
(Price one dollar.)
THIS plan is 26 inches square, and has been en
graved by one of the firft artists in the city, frfim a late
ar.d accurate survey. Pnfchafers are entitled to a pam
phlet with each plan, giving " some account of the
city, its population, trade, government, &c.
July rq • tnf&ftf
To be Sold,
■J- No. 128, North Second-Street) and by fsveral oj
the Apothecaries in this City.
; RANSFERS of the right to remove pains and inflamma
tions f-om the human body, as secured to Dr ELJSH A
by patent, with inftrument&and directions ne
•v »ary lor tie practice. This mode of treatment is psrlicu
y ufeful n relieving pains in the head, face, teeth, breail,
itomach back, rheumatisms, rccem £outs, &c, &c.
>Jotv/ithftar^iijg!fch e utility of this it is not pre-
but thq-c arc cases in which this and every otho
■ remeHy may foretimes fail.
l * .law
.
BY THIS DAY's MAIL.
fa
r» m At/gust 15.
Tyefday last the General AffL-mbly of this
State adjourned_/fn;
The folio-wing a3s tvere pajfed during their fitting' ; ( i
direiling the mode of elefling one repre I
•entativc to reprcrfcnt this (late in the Congrcfs r n
of the United States.
An adt providing for the election of electors to .
elect & Prelident and Vice President of the Uui- k
ted Slates.
An aift empowering the justices of each eburt, of
the ft-veral counties in this state, to lay, and have
coile&ed, an additional eourity tax for the year
1707.
directing tire mode of eleftijjg the leveral
officers, whofc appointment are by the conllittt
ti«n veiled in the court of plea 3 a/Id quarter fef-
fions. r
An a(ft making .compensation to thf members,
clerks, and door keepers of the General Affeni- J'
bly, and for other purposes. '• "
\- _ tl
Communication of his Excellency the Governor to ''
the Hon. the General Assembly of this state. P
Gent(emen of the Senate and of the l/oufi of S
Representatives,
The short time in which I conceived it was ne
ceffirily (ny to canvene the legislature, com
pelled me to, call you togetheivon so short a notice.
In the firft inltance, was to give all the )•
time, the emergency of the occasion ;vnuld admit '
of ! And in the fecorid, from a circumstance, that j R
the eledion to be held for representatives was ap- I ?
proaching so near at hand, made it necessary, as I l
conceive, for the assembly to it in their power,
by a timely meeting {should they in their wisdom ,
deem it proper) to make an alteration in the a£t •
diieAing the mode of deling reprefentatiires to re- °
prtfeßt this state in the s Congress of the United
blates, before the day of ele£iion fhHuld arriye, as
dtTeiledin the aforefaid aft, othcrwife it might be r
attended with disputes and contentions of a difa- '
greeable nature S for by a late a & of Congress the \ »
intended number of our representatives is diminish- 1
ed, of' couife it proportionally lessens our number 1
of electors for President and Vice-President of the |
U"' tec l States. Thus such a derangement will rie- j •
cefTtrily require an alteration in our adls passed for '
such purposes.
Our senators not being recognised in the Senate '
of the United Slates, is another matter for your
jonfideration and attention: And for your more '
ample information, the feverai aflg and communica- J
tions accompanying this address, will elucidate unto'
yap propriety ef my calling the affemfely toge
ther at this time, " * (
1 I hope be permitted toobferve, that it is '
of importance, and conducive to public happiness 1
to aYrange our acts conformably wiih those of Con
. grefs, so far as they fcall refped this state.
' The foregoing are the reasons why 1 have
thought proper to convene the affombly in session,
or. the present day : And I make no doubt, you !
1 will, through your paternal care, wifdem, and pa--
• tr.iotic deliberations, adopt fitch meafwres as wilj
; tend to promote the public interest and ger.eral uti- |
■lity of the state.
I have the pleasure of announcing to you; gen- '
tlemen, the admiflion of the state of Tern effee into
) the federal union, a eircumftance, pregnant with
r every flattering proCjjcdt of peace, happineit, in'd
t opulence to our fofant state. The period is at
; length arrived, when the people of the &outh Wrf
- tern Territery may enjoy all the blessings and 1 *r
- ties of a free and independent republic.
s Permit me to «i(h your public, domeftic,.and in
1 dividual happiness,
c While I have the honor to be,
/ Very refpedlfully,
Your devoted and .
Obedient servant,
JOHN SEVIER.
The committee to wh«m was referred the com.
munication from -the governor, reported, "that the
_ following address be presented to his excellency.
. To his Excellency JQHN SEVIER, ,Esq. Gover
f. of the slate ps TmneJTee.
0 S,R >
.. We are fully sensible that the important obieas
by you laid before this General Assembly, made it
neceffaiy for you to convene the legislature at this
" time.
_ We rejoice with you in the event of this state be
.J. '"g firm 'y admitted into the federal union ; and our
1 minds are filled with the most pleaf.ng sensations,
:r when we teflrft on the prosperity and political hap.
pi ess to whiih we view it as a certain prelude :
Be uffured, fir, it will be our firil and greatest eare
to adopt such measures as will promote the true
interest of this state, as connected with the Ame
-1 ritan union.
With refpefl to our reprefentatton in the senate
t8 of the United States in patticuiar, we flatter our
selves such steps have been taken, that no 'reason
it now remains fuffirient to juftify tjiat body jn refu
(ing any Jbngetf to recognile oar senators.
We view it as effencially necessary to the preser
vation of peace and harmony, with the Indian
if tribes, that the constitutional treaties and laws
tliould be duly observed : And we have the fulleft
confidence that the executive of this state will take
proper measures to enforce their due execution.
JOSEPH M'MIN, Ch.
!•
e ALBANY, September 5.
Ie" The Minister, his Excellency Citizen
ADET, arrived in this city, since our la(l —he has
proceeded on his journey to Lake Georjje. Du
- ring his ftajr here, he was waited on by the Lieut.
Governor, the Chief. Justice and many other df our
i] most refpe&able citizens.
The drought still continues, and a fioft'a few
nights since, injured the Indian corn and gardens in
many places.
NEW YORK, September 8.
* The (hip Confederacy, of New.York, Capt.
Scott Jenckss, was at, the Isle of Bourbon the
24th of April last. bound to ChtHa,
k
By the Cyprnet, from Hamburgh, we hare been po«
favored with Hamburgh papers to July !l, i.tc'u htm
five, which we (hall endeavor to have tranfiated as of t
expeditioufly as pc.lfible. «'oi
A gentleman who came paflsnger in the Cygnet com
from Hamburgh has obligingly informed us, that "
the last intelligence received was, that the Fierfch rem
had pal Ted the Rhine, taken Kchl, with 500 pri- of t
foners, and hod penetrated confideraMy into Sua had
bia ; that the A,uftrians had been obliged to leave that
part of the Rhine with precipitation, leaving much d<,rr
baggage, See. That the French army was rapidly the
anvancing to Franckfort, From the recent fuccef- ta::
ft* of the French, it was the general arid dnily ex
pectation-os the citizens of Hamburgh »hat a ' 1
peace would soon take place between the Eenperor evei
and the French Republic. the
LATEST INTELLIGENCE. hon
By the Peggy, Capt. Bunce, in 40 days from "
Hull,' we h-ive London accounts to the evening of} e .
the 13th July ; being three days later than the ad- rn "
vices by Capt. Clay, lately arrived at Philadelphia t " 1
from Hamburgh. Theanoft iSiportant articles are
the defeat of the Auftrians by General Moreau,
(ince his crofiingjhe Rhine; and the continued ap- C 1
prehensions of a rupture between Great-Britain and
Spain.
. LONDON, Jaly 13—14. Lo
This morning the mail arrived frtm Hamburgh,
whi. h was due last Sunday. The accounts confirm froi
the statements given in the Jaft Paris papers, re- por
fpetting the eroding of the Rhine at Strasbourg in 1
and Kehl, and give other particulars reXpetting the tail
operations of the Auftrians, and the alarm that pre
has been fprcad in all the countries along the Rhine
by the pr&gVefs of the French. tra
The Auftrians having been obliged to abandon Ofl
1' ribourg, in Brifgau, fcrm to have no choice left abl
but to retreat (for.fighting seems now to be out of evi.
th< qneftinn) into th; Black Forest, by what is sos
j called the Devil's Vase, The army commended by rivi
the Prince of Conde mud purfye the fame me a- bet
1 f«re». tar
| ihe Arch-duke, with part of his army, left the in'
; Lahn, iniending, it would appear, to prevent the hai
F tench from getting over at Strasbourg, but, the noi
i Republicans having been too quick in their opera- dei
; tions to lie prevented by the arrival of Austrian re- j mo
inforcements from such a di/lance, this movement
on the part of the Arch-duke will be one means coi
of them to re-e(lablifh themselves. tea
The French, by the lale movements, have ren- I _
dered all tlicir portions muchr more secure than they
were a fh»rt time ago, and it will require great mi- ff
• litary (kill on the part of the jmperialifts to prevent
thon from profiting by the cireumllancc; for not
. onljr has the army of the Sambre and Meufe re
ceived great reinforcements from that of the North,
f.s we have already (hated, but a junttion has been Ec
formefi by the right wing of Jourdan's army, and St
the left of General Moreau'a. Cc
It 1$ probable that the purpose of the French is „ c<
to pftieti'atc through Suabiaon one fide, and thro' C
the Valteline, the country of the Grifons and
Tirol cn the ether. If they fucceedl in this, the ? c ,
army rF Italy, which has already advanced so far™ m
on that fide as to have its advanced polls on the an.
fouthfrn mountains of Germany, will be enabled
to effe& a junction with that of the Rhine. The
French armies, when thus united, will extend to SI
the German oeean on the left, and to the Mediter-
J ranean on the light It is noreafy to fee at present
any tiling that can prevent them from executing
this vast projett, which will open to them the heart '
of Germany,'and compel the Emperor to fiae for
peace on any terms. B
An article from Bonn of June 24, ftatea, that
the news is confirmed, of the French having taken ?
the lines before Memzr: This intelligence, howe
ver, merits further confirmation, before it can be P
implicitly credited. in
Private letters from the Imperial army state, that hi
the Prince of'Wirtemberg has been summoned to o\
Vienna to give an account of the «« ball at. which l a
General Lefehvre made him pay the piper."
c From Italy, the mail brings little intelligence of, B
importance, it confirms the news of an armistice
having been concluded between the French M<;. c<
public and the King of Naples. 2
i Some malcontent# at Rome have planted the tree
Of Liberty there. The ringleaders have been ap- c:
prehended. Y
s Eighteen waggons, laden with gpld and silver O
plate, which the French had taken in Lombardy,
arrived in Genoa, where-they were deposited with P
the Banker Balbi, treasurer to the French.
'' — P
'• CAPTURE OF COLUMBO, WITH 3
: . IMMENSE TREASURES.
Letters from Madras, dated the 22d February, E
_ c received over land at the India House, confirm the
intelligence we gave a few day*, ago of the capture \
of Columbo/ which, with all other dependencies g
e belonging to Dutch on the island of Ctylon, Is
surrendered, on 'the 15th of February, to his Ma
n jetty's forces, under the command of Gen. Stnart. \
The property fotind there is immense—that of in- ci
dividnals is secured to them ; but three Dutch East. 5
Indiamen, richly laden, and all other public pro
" perty, will be (Kared by the Raptors. b
VICTORY OF THE FRENCH ON THE C
e , RHINE.
In the fitting of the Council of Five Hundred,
July 6, ihe following message was delivered :
The Executive Dire&ory to the Council of Five £
Hundred.
n " Citizens Legislators,
ls " Vittory is as faithful to the armies of the re
public in Germany, as (he has been in Italy. We
t> have to announce to you a battle gained at Ren
lr -ehetv
" The army of the Rhine and Moselle, after its
„ brilliant pafiage of the Rhine, had fuccefsfully en
n ' n several combats, which were thfc prelude
to the most important operations. A general bat
tle took place dn the ieth at Renchen. The re
publican troops alternately employed, in imitation
of the (lcillful cfiiffs who commanded them, th«t
:. national boldness which overthrows everything that
e oppofes.itsimpetuoftty ; and that unshaken courage I
which refill*, every effort. The enemy left in the I
K ' U ■ -** « 1
power of let) pieces of cannon, twelve
htiridieJ priiuner*, lix bundled bo:fes, and ;i fitld
of battle covered with dead bodies. Thejr loss 13
enormous. Such is the exp icffion of Moreau, the
commander in chief.
" The army of the Sambre and Meufe did not
remain a psffive fpeitator «f the vi<ft;>rious march
of the Rhine aod Moselle. The division which
had fallen back brhind tho Rhine, forcibly repa!Ted
that river at v Cokgne, between Goblentz and An
dernach. A corps of the enemy which defended
the right bank, was compelled to fly with precipi
tation." . ,v
The. afiembly immediately derreed—
' T,he Council of Five Hundicd, confiderinsj that
every viitory obtained by our brave armies, gives
the republic an op.-uing to the cpticlufipn of.an
honomable and solid peace ; and to all the people
of Europe, a pledge of the speedy pefiaiion of the
deftruftive scourge of war, Declares, thar the ar
mies of the Rhine and Moselle, and of the Sambre
and Metife, continue to defeive well of their coun
try ; ar.d that the present refutation shall be prin
ted, and car ied by a (iate-aieflenger to the Coun
cil of Eiders.
HULL, July 15.
BY EXPRESS
London, Wednesday evening, half pad 8, July r 3^
. This morning government received difp»tches
1 from Gibraltar, said to b? of the molt serious in» t
portance. They were difpatclied by the Governor
in a fait failing transport, with orders to the Cap
: tain to make the ftrft English port, and set off ex
press to the War-Gffi e.
: The intelligence brought by the Crptain of the
transport from Gibraltar, which arrived at the War
-1 Office this morning, is said to be, that of confider
t able preparations going on at the camp of St. Roch,
f evidently intended to a6l oftenfively against that
s foitrefs ; as also, a large body of forces having ar
t rived at the lines, which for this month pa it ha v* \
- been cantoned in -the village test or twelve miltsdif
tant from the camp. But from the fee ret manner
t in which those in official fmiationp, in the office,
s have acted, since the receipt of the above difpat.' lies,
c nothing further hag tranfpiiwd ; though it is cvi
- dent, from manner'and conduct, they aie of the
- molt momentous nature.
t Qur cot respondent's letter also confirms the ac
s count given in the preceding part, of the entire de
feat of the Auftriaas, with immense loss.
- ,«
f
GAZETTE OF THE f/NITEt) STjTSj MARINE UST
t ■■
t PHILADELPHIA, fytcSfcr <J.
ARRIViiD
'» Ships Hope, Bambridge, Ca t .e Nitola Molp, t4 rfays s
n Echo, Boyeßordeaux 56—Brigs Newton, Da Cplta,
c) St Croix, (6 ; Favourite, BufTop, Richmond, (s—gchrs.
Godfrey, Jones, Halifax, 9 ; Fiiendfhip, B rnaby, Nova
1 Scotia, 12; Lyiiia, Whictlefey, Hartiofd, ip—.Sloop
18 Betsey, Jiawkins, Port-aa-Prince, Is.
>'
t) Ship Kitty, Weft, and brig Reif\ White, btthfroni Pliilaf
delphia are lafe arriu»d at tne Ifli- of France. 1 lie (hp P eitn,
' e a< iylvani* from this pori, 11 arrivid at Bordeaux Kri» i I a,
ir M'Leod Irom Derry, with gert is ari ivc, 4, JJc.v-QjJJJp
le another veiTel with patiengers js below.
Ie Arrivals (it New-Tari,—September jr.
:o Ship Severn, Farley, Hqll ££
r . Olive, Hovey, - Bremen 56
[it Peg«y> Burry, hi till 49
ig Cyanet, Johnson, tlamburgh 53
rt - Polly, Cheefman, Greehoek <58
or Rising Sun, Amsterdam $5 •
Brig Hope, Carlile, . Halifax 6
at Cayt. Farley fpokethe brig Neptune, from N'W
»n York, II days out—all well.
e Ship Severn, capt. Farley, arrived yeflerd y, left
be Hull the Bth July. Brings no njews. This morn
ing was boarded by the Thetis, who prrfled one of
e t his an Eirgli(hn>an. Spoke biig Neptqne
to or Nency fiom thi; port, bound to jjaroburgh r
: h lat. 48, it.
Also arrived ship Olive, Hovey, 56 d;.ys fr >rrv
of Bremen ; the (hip Aurora of this port was to fril
C e the fame day. Fell in'with the Newfoundland fleet
convoyed by admiral Wallace in a jogun ship andl
2 frigates.
ee The brig Neptune, Groeart, was spoke with by
p. capt. Farley, on the 28th July, 2 days from New
York, bound tq Hamburgh, lat. 48, 90, long. 24, t
er 00.
y t The Ship AdvcßtuVe, Swain was to fail froh*
th Hull for New York, in a few days after the Pe^gy,
July 18, spoke theT>,ini(h Ihtp ifellona,. Kop
perholt, bound to the Welt-Jndies, lat. 53, 19, lon,
3> 44-
Aruguft 14, Sp<;ke a brig from Carolina. Capt.
y, Burrows, out todays,lat. 45, 40, long. 46, 10.
he August 17, Spoke a fii'ow belonging to admiral
ire Wallace's Iquadron of 18 fail, convoyed by aSO
ies gun (hip, and 2 frigates, bound to Newfoundland,
in, lat, 43, 47, long. 50, 55.
[a Augutt 24, spoke the (hip Charlotte, of New •
rt. York, capt. Neal; out 40 days from Hamburgh, in
in- coirpany with the Cygnet, lat. 42, 18, long.
ft- 55' 9-
o- August 27, spoke a fehooner from St, Uhes,
bound to Bolton, capt. Stoddard, 28 dys out, lat.
42,00, long. 57, 19.
[E Capt. Johnson of the (hip Cygnet, in 53 days front
Hamburgh, has obligingly handed us the, fol
:d, lowing lift of (hips at Hamburgh on the 14th day
of July.
ive Ship Otfego, Morris, of New-York
Uncle Toby, Revnalds, do.
Gen. Lincoln, Laurence, do.
re Amhbtje, Tillinghaft, Philadelphia
Ve Camilla, Williamfon, ijo.
:n Bacchus, George, <do.
Enterprize,' Norris, Wo.
its Eliza, Yeardfley, do,
pn- Mary, Parker, Newport,
ide Aurofa, Furnel, Bolton,
at- Felicity, Coffin, do,
re- Major PiockncT, Hyott, Charleftoa
ion Two Frierifls,-Hathaway Philadelphia
list Liberty, Ramage, do.
bat Phebe, Coftn, Boflotl
ige Columbus, Pell, New-York
the Sancon, Smith, do.To be fold, 3*2
PLANTATION, in »hetown of Woodbury, com: 'he U
■t ty of Gloucester, and slate of New-Jersey, contain- Je.eal
injj*ahout ew- fifty acres; a fuit.ible propor- said 1
tif.a of which is woodland and improved meadow. A ceipt
.treat pert of th« arable land is in a high state of culfi.ite- if an.^
*icn, .nd very natural to the production of Red Clover, pure!
C i said plantation there is a genteel two-story brick r.oufe, ftrft 1
>vith four rooms on a floor, and a good cry cellar under dedui
the >Xrkoie ; together Sarith a barn, corn-cribs carriage- dit i§
heufe The garden is large, and contains a good coliec medi
rifcti of the best kinds of grafted and inoculated fruit tre.:s ;
the orchard consists of ahout thre~ hundred grafted app e»
trees. AAy psrfcn inclined to purchase said premiie®, may
j be informed of the terms by applying to
ANDREW HUNTER.
July 29 * $che
r » — — of
Difiblujtion of Partncrfhip.
''J "'HE Pirtnerlhio between RQJSf£R.T ANDREWS a«d
1 D AVID MF.RIEDI founder :he firm of ANDREWS *=
and Me REDITU, bmg difMverf All per sons who are
indebted to, or who have claims againit the laid house, are
;eouc. :d to apply ior ftJtfclcment tr» the fubfrr:ber.
ROBERT ANDREWS,
No. 86. So. Whiives.
1796. 4 —
City cf Washington.
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11,
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF TR2.
FEDERAL CITY. 3.
A magniScent } 20,000 dollars, 3c 7 q(sq
dwelling-house, J cash 30,000, are ) 1 1
I ditto 15,000 & caffc 25,000 40,000
I ditfo 15,600 '& <!aih 15,000 30,000
I ditto 10,000 <k cash 10,000 20,000
1 ditto 5,000 3c Calh 5,000 10,000
x ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 x O,OOO 2
I cash prize of 10,000
a do. 5,000 each, are ■ 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - • 10,000
20 do. 500 • • xo,ooo 3
00 do. 100 - • *o,obo ■;
alte do. 50 10,000
40© do. ij • * x O,OOO
'1,000 do. 20 - 2®,000
*5,000 do. 10 - *• 150,060
—r 3
16»739 Prizes.
3^26t Blanks'.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight bollart, 406,0p0
N. B. To favour those who may ta&e a quantity of
tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the la at dra^ra
* ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one':
And approved notes, securing payment in either money
or prizes, in ten days after drawing, will be Irecefved for
any number not less than 36 tickets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant fpecitr.en of chit pri
vate buildings to be ere&ed in the City of Washington—
Two beautiful designs are already fel"Aed for the entire
fronts on two of the publie'fquares ; from thefc prawings
it is proposed to erect two centre and four corner buildings,
as soon as pofiible after this lottery isfbld, and to convey /
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the mariner described in the fchemc for the Hotel Lottery.
A nett dechi&ion of five per cent, will be made to defray
the neceflary expenses of printing, &c. and the surplus
will he made a part of the fund intended for the National
Uiiiverfity, to be erecled within the city of Washington.
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets.are
fold oif.--The money prizes will l>e payable in thirty days
after it is finifhad ; and any pr zes for which fortunate
numbers aie not produced within twelve months after the
drawing is closed, are to be considered as given towards
the fund for the Uiiiverfity ; it being determined to fettle
f!he*whole business in a year from the ending of the draw
ing, and to take up the bonds given as security.
The real fcxiirities given for the payment of the Prices,
are held by the President and two Dire&ors of the Bank
of Columbia, arid are valued at more than half the a
mount ut the lottery.
• The tweaty four gentlemen Vho by appointment of
the late Commiflioners aflifled in the management of the
Hoitel Lottery are requefted N to undertake this arduous task
a second time on behalf of the public ; a fufficient num
ber of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
friends to a National Univerflty and the other
je&s may continue to favwr the design.
' * By accounts received from the different parts of the
Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickctt
have been Cent'for sale, the public are assured that the
drawing will speedily ccriiimenee, and that the care and
caption unavoidably neceflary to iniure a fafe disposal of
the tickets, has rendered the Chor. suspension indispensable.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
»§* Tickets may be had at the Bank' of Columbia ; o
James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter Oilman, Boflon
of John lieplchis*'Richmond ; and of Richard Wells
Cooper's ferry.
V/ A A r T £ D, '
An APPRENTICE to the prirlttig Bufinefs>
Enquire at this Office. Aug. 19
Lands cf the United States
Trcatiiry Department, Augujl 3 < 1796.
Public Notice is hereby Given,
IN purluance of an iS of Congress, parted on the 18th
day of May, 1796, entitled " An iS providing " Jjr
the sale of the lands of the United itates, in the Territo
ry north weft of the rr?er Onio, and above the mouth of
Kentucky ri'/er," thst the fcftiona ar lots of land defcri-
in the annexed fchednle, lying in the seven ranges ai
tbwnfhips, which were surveyed in pursuance of an ordi
nance of CongrefsjpafTed f3n the twentieth day of May,
in the year one thousand (even hundred "ar.d eighty-five,
<wil! beeipofed forfale at Pcblic vendue, in the town of
Pittlburghift Penr.fvlvania, on the twfcnty-£parth. day of
OAoberfieit, and thqnceforwarfrom day. to day Until
tlvfirft day ofDeeember ertfuingj ualefs the said tots fliall
be sooner fold, ip the manner, aid on the tcruu and con •
dition" herein after r.icnti&ned,'s,o wit *
ift. FhefaTd fe'SiofM-ftr fold under the di
rect ran si the Governor or Secrettr f of the Western Ter
ritory, aadXuch verfork as fho Preliuviit of the United
Sulcb rr,iy fpeeiilly appoint for that purpose.
2d. The said fe«2ioni or lots fcal! be fold to the hifhdft 1
}>''drfer,buc nofefc c-in be made for less tKah'two dollars j
* oer acfe of th« quantity of land Contained in such lot or I
itouon,
3. Thehigheft bidder as before mentioned, ffiuft depo
fir at the time ef sale, one twentieth part of die purer ale
Traney, ir tjie hafids of flich pexfon astho Prefu!»it of the
tfri'tid State's ftiall appom* to attend the sales ffir that par
pofe, which will iwforfoited, if a moiety of the fura.Wd,
the said twentieth part, fliall not be paid wi{iiin
tiiirrydejs the time of sale. !
4th. U.poil payment of a moiety of the purchase money
in tfte m;nrjrr before mehtbned, the purchafjr wi'l be
entitled to o«'.c year i cridit for die remaining moiety;
' mi ihall reccive from the Govetnor er Secretary of the
Weilern Territory, ar-u the peifhil who shall be appointed
by the PreQdent of the United Sfa*e»j to direct the fales,a
ctrtific-tc deiciiKing ths Jot or kJtion and de
ciaiinjthefu •ipa'.donacoaiiit,thehulan'cerem«inmgdue, I
wivcu luch balance becomes payable-, acd that |
the «.hsk iat-d tiicusiii mentioned , will be lorfsi.cd, if the !
. *
said biUnce is not then paid ; but iftlw f»WJ wlunce fcaUi
totr.e Tr alSh-r "i |
the United States, the purchaser or his affignce 6t j
Jeeal representative, SialJ be entitled to a patent !or t j
Paid hnds.sinhis producing- to the Secretary of tftate a re- j
ceipt for such balance endorsed up'or: the certificate. . But
if any nurchafer fliall make payment of the whole of the | y
ourchafe montv, at the time when the payment o the J * ; _
ftrft moiety i- direeled to be made, he will be entitled to a ft j.
deduction of ten per centum on the part for wh;ch a ere
dit is authorised to be giVen'; and hi, patent fliall be m
mediately iffuwi. , , ~ delcri
Given under my hand at Philadelphia, the day and
. year above mer.tiened. „ p a: r .
OLIVER WOLCOTT, " r
Sccr-t_ry of the Treasury
*~a- hcIV
Schedule of feßions of town"uifis, or rrafliir.a! parts a
of to be fold at Pittfb irgh, in purfii'i ice „iitil
of the 6th fefliort of ao all of Congress, {xijfcd on
the 18th day of May, 1796.
" —: * hie;h<
<?• jo . . • . dolla
Jsii•£ " £ i
C . O °. O
M \ o M polit
!Z I ■ . i chaf<
"ift Range. 6ihTown(hip. 6jJi RaAgk. Stlte
ill Townihip. Saiz 640 each i iltTuwnfliip. v'
28 5 65 14 640 , 17 3
19 95 I7a»o64oeacn , 18 270
30 250 75 Is a each 4 j % 50 ej
34 2401 90 gthTowafltip- 52 166 40 atld
35136 64c ;ich 3ai4]«4ojeach 23 457 ft lD
2d Townihip 17320.640eacb 24 f, 40 j| lc '(
119 140 23 '640 27 151 80 beco
20 170 79 25a»o64oeach 28a3o64oeach ( ;- on(
21 185 33a3 6 640 each' ;j 58 paid
12 230 iothTownftiip 34336 64&|each pay;
25 488 80 ii 2 [640 each id Townfliip. th»(
26a27 640 each sai4'64oeach 1 126 shall
28 j6o 3 440 daci
29 '55 r6O 231361640 eaci 3 448 endc
• 30 564 i2thTown(hip. 4 456 mak
640 each iai4 64? each 5 464 ti" l '
4thTownfliip. 17120 640 each 6 472 H
19 64 23i36i640!eai;1i 7 340
2 { , 4 ' . SlV '
26 387 60 *7"°6 4 oe«rh
27 36 ~ -Z 23336 640eath
3 1 132 640 each * jdTownfh.f.
33 616 Z <., 0 1 470
34 445 ao 4i5 1 478
35136 each 3 4u
36 16 »o •" T- 4 494 Cf <
JthTowiift.p. 2L 2 °™" S SOI fuan
f 6 '39 10 316 6 4 °Uch 6 i to . the
1 IS 479 3° J 110 7ai4 640 eacu
17 3°4 IS o ~0 17120 640«C71
f 18 638 jo 4 oeach 23336640^
r 23 450 75 * 5th Townihip, c
. '• t mla ' i»'
184 I7 a2C Uo each 4 ' l 6 5
30 640 a i mt * .Sao each 3
e i< 312 80 rk* 4 b'4 G o
36 64c 3dTown(h,p. S4
i, — iai4 64beach & a £
■; "it-' -
y u I 6j 50 1214 640) each n
15 3d Townihip. 171101640'eaeh ' '■
l ' 54i26 640eich 13136 640 each 1 r ' _
28 499 16 jthTownfhip. 1 4
29 640 ia2 64cJeach 3 57
' 6 133 64c each SIJ 640'eaeh 5
4thTown(hip. 12013 640 tich £ '93 «
\* 11 2(■ 40 18119 648 each / 1 -u
Is . 7H4 640 each
1 »a 397 50 25 646 . ' t v.
13 5150 30*36 640 each ,7a^ 6 ,f " C J:
15 2-, 50 9th'f ; ownfhip
16 259 ao iai 4 |64c|eath
i i 7 S a4 i 7 a4o6 4 o!eacli
z 18 64c 23336 6 4 3 each -7aao6 4 ceich
I, 635 nthTownfhip.
», -r^TZota
he si 636 21 i 7 a2o!64o£ach 1 14 *
i{k 52a3664c eash 23a36'64o'each r 7 aa °
u sthT.wnlhip. l3thTown(hip. 83*36.640 each
he 5 63' ni4|6 4 oleich
ib- izy 64c -ach I7i2c643each ia ' 4 _4e|eich
2332564 each 2 3 i 3 6Meach i7aac6 4 oeich
he ach l b - 6 4 o ! eaeh
cte 3213664 c .-ach
7thTownihip. ? own P . iai 4 6 4 oeach
nd , -640! 274 40 1 7a2o l 6 4 ojeach
JihTownftip " 87 50 23336 640, each.
lle - H5 640 each 427 50 7 thRANCe.
6 440 ift Town/hip.
l £ 2ES 11 -s ys 1
2 \hTo 6 wn?i J 9 a J a 64o each adTow ß !hip.
- 9 6 640 p! 31 \i\
11 64c 30 33^36640each - r * 6 64 =" ch
,j«4 64c each! icaxa 640 each
— 64c each 14 3c
23336 64o}each 1711% 64oeach
3d Range. 5 456 '9 14
ad Township. 6 464 80 10 4 9 6
i S 6* 1 250
c 16 6cc 8 618 l S < ,-1.
20 557 50 9 ai4 64c each 26 ;3 7 6 4°l" t : h
°* iiaa2 64oeach 1712 c 64ceach 4 Town. p.
° { 23 609 23336 6 4 oleich "»# 4 ojeach.
r '~( a 36 640 each 4 th 1 ownfhip * 7aS^L 4 °! e^ rh
d f 3d Tpwnlhip. iaJ 4 |6 4 o)eich .
„ 9 18a 60 17120 6 4 ffleach SthTownfhip.
' 10 344 a3a36|643each "*4^^
oi ' 11 267 ftthTownlhip.
of " 152 1 ai 4 ;6 4 o|ea C h 4 °^
itil J 4 202 50 17UO 54cLaeh " w " 'P* ,
.all 15 630 5 23a36140Wch «" 4 M^
an. l6aiß 640 each BthTownlhip. »7aac 640 ea«tt
19 2.7 50 iai4j64pjeach 2 3^6t6 4 o|e3ch
di- 20 616 75 i7a2o|R4cjeach lothTownfhip.
er- 1H36 640 each i3i36ki4oteacli *ai4 6 4 0jtach
ted 4th Townihip. lothTownfhip. i7»to 640 each
I 170 iai4|6 4 c}fcich *3 a 3 61640 leach
Wf'4 4 544 I7azc S4o|eich >athTawr.fliip.
rs I 3 320 i3a36l6 4 o!each!| iit4|64Cieach
■or 4 4jo itthTownflnp. i7A2cj6^laach
5 I2e iai4|64cteach I 3 s j_6|64c!each
f°" 6 640 I7a2cJ64cleach
'y~ 7 L 563 23 i 36j')4o|each 1 ar 4 |64ojeach
' 819 64c each 14'thl ownfhip. 17 a 20 6 4 o«ach
10 54c 80 iai4 540ieich 23236640 each
fain' 11 5*9 7° I7 a ac 64c each Townfllip.
I2ai4 640 each 23236 640 each lar 4j64ojeach
)ne Tja2c 64c each j i7a2o|64o,each
be 23236 640 eacl. i32j6j64o|aack
*7i NOTE.
the THEquantities of Lands m th. several towrfhipt be
fore Etntloued, are er:!ufive of the Lou reserved by the
es,a In tea States and alio of those formerly fold - The ag
de- grrgate quantitks ia th. several townfhirs or fnaional
aue, pari,i of townlhips, have been afeertained bv atSuil fur
ttiat *y ; th* rjuantrtie* in particular iocs or frilior.., have
t tnt - b,:cc oo other wife ifcertaiuod this by calcu'jtios. |
| Lands of the United States.
Treafary Department,
( J Augufi 8,1796. f.
Public Notice is hereby given, -
I IN pyrfuaU'ce of an ad of Congress paCTed on th« 18th
\ a,y of May. 1796, entitled «an ad providing tor d
Lil « the Lands of rt -• United State, m the t.rnt.ry z
north-weft of th« river Ohio, and above « the mouth of
' 'Kentucky river," that the Quarter rowafhips o. l«nd
(Vlcribed in the annexed schedule, lying "»the .=ve.i .acg- —
1s
• an'til the tench day of February enfung. vt.Lfs the
, ~a irt, r tow,;fh M « <h»llbe fe.ner fold, in t.ie manner an.,
on the ter,,< aid conditions mcntiOßed: v£
Tl> The said aiiarter townlhips Ihall be fold to the
" higheVblidcr, but r.ofale can be made fir left than two
dollar; per acre of the quantity of land contained in such
' bidder as before mentioned mutt de
pot) t'a' the time of Me, one twentieth part
chafe money, in the hands of tne rreafnrprof the Unit
'• State, which will be ferfciud if a moiety of the sam bid,
including the said twentieth part, Hull uotb« paid wtehm
thirty days from the time of fa*ev
,d Upon payment of a moiety of the jnirehafe-me
rtey in the manner befor. mentioned, the parchalerwill
be entitled to one year's credit for the remWrmg mo ety i
and (hall receive a certificate defcnbiag tje quartsr town •
o,io purchased, and declaring the sum paid on account,
the bdlar.ee retnaiaing due, the time when such balance
becom.'; payable, aijd that the whole Land therein men
tioned will be forfeited, if the fud balance >s not then
paiJ • but if the said balance (hall be duly discharged, by
paving the famt to the Treal'urer of the United States,
thipiirchafer or his affigneeor other legal repreientat.ve,
{hall be entitled to a pater.t for the fa.d land, on his pro
discing to the Seer e tar State a receipt for such balance
endorsed u?on the certificate. But if any purchaier fcall
make payment of the whole of the purtnafe nioney at the
time when the 'payment oI the firih mowty is direded to
be B.ade, he w«; te entitled to t dedtfition 0. tui per
centum on the part for which a, credit is authorized to be
»ivcn ; and patent (hall be immediately lflued.
° OIVKN under a; hand at Philadelphia, tha day
and year abowomentioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
SCHEDULE
Cf Quafter-Townlhips to be fold at Philadelphia, in por
fuance of the 6th fedtiou of in ad of Congress puffed 011
the 18th day of May, 1796.
—- TFT"
1 l !
C "3 £ *
« * * t- 1
* 5 tf o
CSi C « I- "
r t-l vJ U "
r* -d 3
•o ■» . .0 g
a < 3 =
Ou c •
J5 - 0 5 — v
Z O ? <2
£
f ijj 1 i n _j L- _ 111 1 t " 11"
2 Sfidth Eall
North East Jl2O
South Weft 5120 -
• North Weft 5 120
20,485
3 .5 Souih East 5120
iNo-th East j 120
jSouth Weft 5:20
North Weft 5120
25,480
"7 South East 5120
North East 5 :20
South Weft 5120
North WcA 5120
20,480
5 South East 31 to
East 5 12D
South Weft 51 20
North Weft JI2O
£0,430
II South F.aft 5120
North East 5120
.South Well $120
North Wefi 5120
20,480 -
4 4 South East 5 120
North East 5120
So«th Weft ji2q ,
North Weft 5 120 I I t
40,480 <
6 South East ; 120
i North ]seal! 5120
South Weft j 120
1 North Weft 5120
"• 20,480 ,
8 South East 5120
North Eart 5120
1 South Welt 5120
North Well 5120
\ ■ 26,480
I 10 Seuth East 5120
" North East; 5120
I* Sonth Weft 5120
h North Well 51.20
h j 20,480
>. 12 South East 5120
h 1 North East 5120
h South Weft 5120
k North Welt 5120
h >9»48O
South East 4602
h North East 4654
j. South Weft 5120
h North Weft 5120
II • . „ .
5 South East 5120
J- North East >5120
(j South Weft 5120
k North Weft 5120
3. 20,480
h j South East 5120 •
North East 512 c
South Welti 5120
North Weft 5 120 j
u be- f 20,480
sy the 6 9 South East; 5120
ie a 2" iNorth East; Jl2O
have No:tbWelti 5120
I. 1 1 ■ *■ 20,480]
- — "—' T J£« i
• - Z "■
a. 1 t —
Ci S =
• C , G
■T •? | . «£
? o
■a i 3 %«
v o v <* 5
or - £ s -
* |f
c II South Eaftljl2o.
North F.Vftlj(2o ■
South W P. > 120
North Weft J 120
20,480
13 South East J 120
Noith East 5! 20
S'lUth We!), 5120
North Weft 5120,
20,480
6 4 South Eail 4630 *
North East 4620
South Wsft 5120;
North Weft 5 120
19,490
6 * South .East 4730
North ft 4715
Sou hWtft 5120
!North Weft 5120 '
!
8 Sooth F.-ift 5 120
North Ei!t!j(2o
South Weft' J 120
jNorth Welt. J 120
! — 20,480
10 South Eaftisl2c '
North Eaftsl2o
South Weft|s 120
iNorth Weft 5 120
20,480
12 JS'outh East 5120
North East 5 120
South Weft|s 12c ,
North Wefi .5 120
20,480
Sourh Eiff j 120
North E&;!ji2G
South Welt j 120
[ NoriU Weft 5 120
20,480
j 3 South Eanji2o
North Eslt J 120
South Weft 5120
North Weft J 120
20,483
f South EaftJ l2o
North East 5120 '
South Weft j 120
North Weft J 120
20,480
( 7 South Eaft 5 120
'North Eaftjjl2oj
South Weft J I 20
North Weft 51 20
20,480
5 South East Jtto
North Eafl fllO 3 .. «£ _ _
South Weft j 120
North Weft 20
(20,480
IX South East j 120
North East 5 1 20
South Weft ji2o
North Weft 5 120
20,48© 1
13 South Ea?l 512 c
North E*ft 5120
South Well J1 20
North Weft ; »20
2
lj- South East j !2o.i
North Eafi J l2©
South Weft 5 120
Nor:h Wet! Jl2O
20,480
NOTE.
THE quantities «f Lands in the several towafh-.pV ris
fore raeatiode>,are eichriive of the Se&ions reserved 0Y 1
the United States. The aggregate quantities ia the favc-
towiilhips, have been afcertgir.ed by a&ual ftjrvsy ; b -i
the quantities in the quarter tawnlhips, have been n»
otherwise ascertained than by calculation. |
Waikmgton Canal Lottery,
N0 . I. *
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has autherifrf
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thouwna,.
1 two hundred, and fifty dollars, for Hie pur pole of
a C,anal thrcugh the City of Wafliißgton, from th
tomatto theEaftern Branch H'arueur.
the following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz 'X Priz&of 40,000 dollar., iofico
i ditto 10, coo 10,000
7lad drawn 7 3( coo
Tickets, each J 5,000 J "
<6 ditto 1,000 6,000
10 ditto 400 4> o0 °
40 ditto. 100 »,coo'
55 ditto jo »i7S°
5750 ditto 14 69,008
To be raised for the Canal,
j 850 Prizes, 175"> 0^
11650 Blanks, not two "to a prize. :
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 115,800
*3- The Commissioners have taken the Sc,-vuri»es tc
quired by the afore&li a<st for the pun6i.ua). paj-irtect 0*
the prizes. -•
• The drawing ef this Lottery will comm.«."«» V*
delay, as soon as tfaft Tickets are fold, <»f which timely
notice will be given.
Such j>nze, as are not *diu liamonths'ftrttp'
drawing is finifhed, (hall be coo iidered as
■ the benefit of Canal, anvJ -appropriated
(Signed K<- JTL £lf YOUNC,
f,ANIEL CARROC£,«/ y
"iEWIS DEHLOIi*
GEORGE VVAIAER,
V/m. M.DUNC.iNSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES
City as Waftiflgt' aSi Feb. 11. -1 1
F R i N T E i>
•—No. 119 —•
CKE S HWT-STK.EST. ,
s [Priac .pollart per