tttt of the Btlif eTI States, & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Kvmber 1344.] THURSDAT EVENING» DECEMBER 29, [Volume I.
— " ■i.-r .1 * • t 1 /"• 1a c u xr tr Pnm i HnmrswtMF. Nn. n6.
A C A R D.
1 ,
If Monsieur G H. Son LI,
Who left Bordeaux the aoth June last, and arrived s
at Bolton J.boltt the middle of Angatt, in the schooner ti
Jane, i» in Philadelphia, he is rrquefted to call on *
Joseph Anthony &. Co. No. 5, Chefnut-ftreet, who
will give him some information Of importance.
December 34, 1796- §
Clocks and Watches.
LESLIE and PRICE,
N». 79, Markst street, Phiiadslphij,
HAVE IMPOR I'F.D. by the late arrivals from £
London, a Urge affortmenr of WARRANTED K
WA •/ CHES, eonfiftmg of horizontal, capp'd and
jewel'd Gold Witches; with fecosds, of superior J
workmanlhip and elegance ; also capp'd and jewel d '
and plain Gold Watches ; capp'd & jewell'd, capp d,
seconds, day of the month, and plain Silver Watches ; t
eight day & chamber Clocks; elegant French Clocks
with marble frames ; eight day and thirty hour, brass
works, &c. '
Decembet 33, 1796. Irn
lihported from London Liverpool, ]
EARTHEN WARE, in crates and hogsheads, well '
assorted
Wine Bottles in hampers (
Window Glass of all sizes 1
Two cases of stationary '
One cVleft of yellow Jesuits Bark
Two cases of Roll Arnotta
A small eonfignment of Rose Blanketj, Flannels,
Baizes, Broad-cloths, Coatings, Plains, &c. (
Paints of various colors.
Basket fait in hogsheads.
Also on hand,
Madeira wine, very old, in pipes, hogsheads and
quarter calks
Holland gin in pipes, firft quality
Anchors of different sizes
A few trunks of ladies French tooes assorted
Silk nankeen,&c. r „. c
Likewise an aflortment of Dutch goods, confiding of
OfnSber*s, ticklenbergs,bed-ticks, ftnpes, checks.
Morlaix linen, platillas, ravens duck, Britannias,
And for sale by the package only by
Thomas & John hetland.
Walnut-street Wharf.
Nov. 15. eotf
F O R S A L E,
The fafi-jailing schooner ORION;
Seventy tons burthen ; fifteen months
1 ° Id ; h=r iramc " of thc befl of white
oak : fee is a taithful built vefiel, handlomely finifhed off
and well found in every particular ; is ready to receive a
cargo on board, and can be put to sea without any ex
pence on her hull, fails or riggmg : ffie flows fix hundred
barrels • has a handsome caoin and fleerage. and a haft
deck which will flow from feventy-five to eigh.y barrels;
has been newly caulked, graved and painted. For terms
apply to BENJAMIN RHODES,
At No. 1.70, corner of Market at*d Fitth-flreets,
Or to the Captain on board said schooner at Messrs.
Willis and Yardficy's wharf, adjoining Chefnut-ftreet
wharf; where there is for sale
Excellent pickled Salmon in barrels,
the best of American Mess Beef, and some very excellent
rr.anufa<fi:ured Chocolate.
December 26
For Sligo and Killibegs,
The American Ship Nancy,
Cuthbert Riggs, matter.
vVill fail with all convenient ipeed. For
freight or passage apply to '
William Bell;
Who has for sale,
4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well assorted
5 Bales Irish F.annels, and i boxes Linens
*5 Pipes Brandy
Madeira Wine j I»digo . Rwffu Matls.
Also,
A few barrels Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
OATMEAL, &c.
November iij i?9®> mwftf
FOR SALE,
7 HE SHIP M ART,
SAMUEL PARKER, Master,
E;ii3^£^& ; Two hundred tonsburthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MARY is not fold in a few days, she will take
> freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
October 31.
For Sale, or Charter, .
The Ship DIANA,
Samuel- Pile, Matter,'
Burthen aoj 47*95 register, built in
Philadelphia in the year 1792, of live oak
and was sheathed 13 months ago, she
SjSfifcXi-t ..,-6., b.
at a very trffiivig expence.
For terms apply to
pbilip Nickltn ciT Co.
VTho have fir fait on hard said vtffil,
~,<1,5 0 f fine yellow paint.
o boxes and j> bundles of writing slate..
J box ink flands and note presses.
14 bales of fail canvass.
And on hand t
fttU? teas.
ISSTJiie.' !k< « W'%-
10 tubs QuickfiWer.
thicksets, Ginghams, Mufl.nets, Dimities, &c.
, boxes black fewingfi'k.
,8o crates Queens ware well assorted.
to tons sheet lead.
Nai!. assorted, flat and scarp points.
London Particular, 1 Madeira Wine in pipes
London Market, f and hogflieads.
Nevlr-York Market, J .
£ pfpes and .0 hogsheads Tenenffe w.»e.
) S tierces Snake Root.
t3 o logs Mahogany. tt ) lSc f t f
Kov 7.
North-American Land Company. A
NOTICE is hereby given to the Stockholders that
an eleflian will be held at the company's office, on Sa
turday the 31ft December, agreeably to the articles of
aflociaiion, tor a board of managers, to conlift 6f five j;
Diredlors and a Secretary.
?3<-
Fashionable Waistcoating.
GEORGE DOBSON, No. 25,
SOUTH THIRD-STREET,
Has received per the Diana, from L.ondoft, q
Clouded and striped Spanish Swanfdown
Clouded lilrminats arid Moleskins
Striped I do. and do.
Figured Manillas
Scarlet figured Erminets
Printed Florinetts
Do. Csffinets and CafTimeres
Superfine printed Quilting, newest patterns ®
Also, per different arrivals,
A large and general aflortment of Dry
Goods, r
Suitable to the present and approaching season. 1
November 5. dtf
Insurance' Company of North-America.
THF STOCKHOLDERS in this company are desired
to take notice that the second Tuesday in January, (being
the 10th day of the month) is the day fixed by charter for
the ele&ion of twenty-five Directors for the enfuingyear.
1 he ele&ion will be held at their office, and commence
at!i>,o'clock, A. M.
Theiisbjeft if the bye-laws of the Corporation will, be
fubmittcd to their consideration at this meeting.
EBENEZER HAZARS3, Sec'ry
Dec. is. tthioj
FOR SALE,
At* Whitefides' Tea Ware-House,
No. 99, North Second Street.
Imperial r Hyson Skia.
Hyson-, > Fresh Teas. < Souchong,
Young Hyson, j
Dec, q.
Insurance Company of the State of
Pennsylvania.
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, tha f an election
for thirteen DireiStors to fervs for one year, will ba held
at the Company's Office, on Monday the 9th January next,
at II o'clock.—And agreeably to the acl of incorporation
a statement of the affairs of the company, will then be
laid before them.
SAMUEL W. FISHER, Sec'y.
Philadelphia, 1796. dt 9th Jan.
Philadelphia and Lancaster Turnpike
Road Company.
A Meeting of the Stockholders for the Eltijlinn of
a President, Managers', and other officer:,, will be
held at the Company's office on Monday the 9th Jan.
next, at 10 o'clock.
By the Bosrd.
WM. GOVF.TT,Sec'ry.
December 8, 1796- uwtifl f.dto h
Imported in the late srri-ih front liuropc and the
IVeJI-IttSei,
Holland Gin, in pipes
Choice St. Croix Sugar and Hum
Martinique MolafTes, ir. hogfheajs
Choice old Lifbnn Wine, in pipes and quarter-calks
London Particular K London Market Madeira Wine,
in pipes, half pipes and quarter-c-fks
Malmsey Mj.teira Wins, in pipes and quaHer-cafks
Teperiffe Wine, in pipes
' Rutfia & Flemish Sheeting and Ravins Du L -k, in cajes
Window Glass, 3 by 10, in boxes
Coffee Mills and Straw Knives, in calks
Mill Saws and Cross-cut Saws, in boxes
Also, on hand,
A few chests of Bohea Fea ; Jefdits Bark ; Aflafas
tida arid Tnpioca ; antl a few bales of Cofiaesj
Baftas, Gurrahs, Bandanna and Muslin Handker
chiefs, and a complete aflortment of 5-4 and 6-4
Boulting Cloths.
For Sale by
Pragers Sff Co.
OiSlober 20 diwm&tham
Any Person
Who is well acquainted with the River
MISSIS I P P I,
0 And will give Directions for failing into the fame,
I that can be depended on, (hall be gtneroufly reward
ed I ed for his information, provided he will leave the
directions with' Mr. John Fenno, printer, Philadelphia,
or Edmund M. Blunt, Newburyport.
3 . Ta\r 2 m
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 313, HIGH-STREET.
GEORGE DAVIS announces to his profeffional friends,
" and the Gentlemen of the Lav, generally, through the
k Union, that his ineimportation of BUOKS is now arrany
e ed, and r ady for Sale, ftom a single volume to an entire li
a brary, without any advancc upon his former exceeding low
[•■•ces, wliith forfeveral years pa A have in so diliinguilhcd a
manner recommended ihrrrno notice.
Printed Catalogues combining the mod e*tenfive collec
tion cf the latest English and Irish Editions evo imponeo
into this country, arc pnblilhed, and will be delivered gratis
en application.
Orders addretf'd 10 G. D. in writing from any distance
Ihallbe punctually aticndedto.
A number of T RUNKS for Sale.
ALSO, TO BE LET,
A convenient LOFT, near Market Street Wharf.
cv.B. lu&fgir
TO BE SOLD,^
A PL ANTAION, ia the town of Woodbury, coun
ty of Gloucester, and (late of New-JefAy, contain
ing about one hundred and fifty acres ; a Cuitable proper
r" tion of which is woodland and improved meadow. A
c• great part of the arable land is in a high flats of cultiva
tion, and very natural to the production of Red Clover
On fuid plantation there is a genteel two-story brick houTe,
with four rooms on a floor, and a good dry cellar under
the whole ; together with a barn, corn-cribs and carriage
hsufc. The garden is large, and contains a good collec
8 tion of the bell kinds of grafted and inoculated fruit trees ;
the orchard consists of about three hundred grafted app e
treos. Any person inclined to purchase said premil'es, may
he inform, d of the terms, by applying- to
AN Wit E W H UNTE JL
f Jul}- *9 f
A few hogsheads of choice N. E. Rum,
and a quantity of LAUD, for sale;
Enquire at No. 71, North Watcr-ftrcet.
December it, d lw
C
frefh Garden, Grass and Flower-Seeds,
Roots, &c. &c.
This day landing from the ship Eagle, captain Fofdick, "
from London,
And FOR. SALE by
GOLDTHWAIT & MOOREj p,
Corner of Walnut and Second-flrects,
A moji capital and .•xlenftvs Jjfortment of
GARDEN, GRASS and FLOWER-SEEDS,
ROOTS, &c. &c.
Among which are,
Five kinds Afparagusj Three kinds Cresses
Four Berecolej Twelve Onion
Twenty-five Beans, Thirteen Radish
Six *, Beets' Fifteen Turnip
Eleven Brocolii Fifteen Peas
Twenty-fix Cabbage' Six Savoy
Six Carrot Four Parsnip i,
Three Caulifiower Twenty-three Melon
Five Celery Twenty-one Lettuc«
Ten Cucumber
Common and errton TKywie
Curled lsaf and sprigged Parsley J
Pof Marygold Pot Mar j brum
fealm Thyme Mangel Wurtzel
Leek Kail Shallots
Rape Seed Rye Grafa Saint Foin Lucerne
Red and white Clover Timothy, &c. &c. J
"With a curious colleClioft of the most clteemed
FLOWER-SEEDS and ROO L'S, I
Being thc most extensive ever imported into this city.
Thc abosre are from a capital Seedsman in Londen, and
are warranted frefh and good.
Printed catalogues may be had by applying as above.
Dec. 17. 4tf.
Just Landing, i
At South fifed wharf, from cn hoard thc fh'tp Stdg- J
ley, Captain Hedge, from St. Peterjiurg, f
The following Goods : 1
P.uffia Sail Dvck, firft quality.
Do. Shectiag do.
Do. Diaper.
Do. Huckaback. .
Do. Crash.
Do. Mou'd Candles, 4, 5 and 6,^t6 of the (
Englifk fia>e.
Do. White Candle TalloHv.
Do* White So-p in (mall btxen f
Do. Cordage of fine yarn.
Ravens Duck.
lfmglafs, Ift and 2nd fort.
Horse Hair uncurkd.
Rufiia Bar Iron.
Do. Hoop Iron.
Do. Nail Rods.
10 Tons Oakum and Junk.
St. Peter (burg Clean Hemp.
For Sale by
Philips, Cramond, & Co.
Ofleberll.
Old London particular Madeira Witie,
Landing from on board the barque Eagle, Capt. Batei
and for sale by ROBERT ANDREWS,
No. 86, South Wharves.
• Noveknbcr 29. codtf
Cheap French China.
THE fubferibers finding it irapoflible to supply their
store with aily more China from France, the prices
being too immoderate in the uiatwifa&eries, give no
, tice that they will fell at •prime cost the remaining
deck oa hand, conflfiing of
Defiert Setts,
Tea-Table Setts
Separate Cups and Saucers
Groupes and Figures
( Alabaster Vales
Looking Glasses, in gilt frames,
, Befidts India Japan'd Toilet Desks, Chairs, Tables
nad Quadrille Boxej. PABQUIER & Co.
N®. 91, South Seeond-ftreet.
December sth. tts
For Sale,
By J. WARDER, PARKER Ssf Co.
An Invoice of Cordage,
Conflfiing of different sizes, from 11 inch cables down
to rope of a ftiches, of different lengths: Imported in
■, : the ship Swift, from Hull, and entitle* to drawback.
1- Sept. 17. . " djtf
.! ~~ S W AN N'S
Riding School, Horse Academy Iff Infirmary.
Adjoining the Public Square, Market Street.
T. SWANN
RETURNS hitfincere thanks tothofe gentlemen by whom
he ha« been cmptoyed, l dwring his refidenoe in this City, and
flartershimfelf thac ihe fucceft of his etfoits,' in the numerous,
8 » obstinate 2nd dangerous djfeafas in Horses, in which he has
1C been conitthed, together with his moderate charges, will (e
----ure their (utwrefavors end rccemmendation'.
l * He now begs leave 10 infoim them and the public at large
" that his lp%ciou« and coajmofiious prcmif«£, cie<sk*d for the
8 purpofea »bpve de-fenbed are open for the reception of pupils
of either sex, who with to bt inflru&ed in the Art of Riding,
c * and the method of governing their horses, so a*to ride
■0 them with ease, elegance, and fafety—their horses will be
,J carefully and expeditiously broke, for every purpoje, and
made obedient to ihe will of the riders ; the natural powers
2c whicti are shut uprn them, will be unfolded by art, calling
forth uniformity of motion, and giving to tbai noble animal
all those beauties of action wfilcii piovidence has so
Ijrflly bestowed on thern.
Also, at hofpiial, every to which the horse is
liable will be treated according to the rules of art, confirmed
- by k»ng and tepeatcd •xperience. t ,
Thc utility of the above i nit nut ion has never been qneftion
ed, that ii has long been wanted in this city, gentleman's
n- ttud will manifcfl, T. Swann as tiie Hi ft cttihlifher of
n fche veierenary art, foltcifs a«d relies upon the lupport of that
r- public (which he is ever anxious jn (erving) to enable him to
A biiingit to perfection. The idea of a fubferjption for uhat
a _ purpose has beeu hinted by fevcral gentleman, who wish to
r promote the inftitntion—the amount of each fubfeription to
e be returned by services in any of the departments he profefiTei,
LM ' agreeable to the rale of charges ttated in hin haiid bfll. Such
( fubfeription is now open, and the signatures of many relpedt-
able gentle men already r brained. He thetdore injorms hi«
friends and fu< h Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has not
' the honor of being, know n, that he lhall in a few days take
*** the liberty of waiting upon them and folicvting their support
a y and protection.
N. B. Hoi fes are properly p»epared for those Ladies and
Oen'lenxen who wish to l« ioUi«»tti«.
Nov. i uh&f.
Wm. Holdernesse, No. 76,
HIGH-STREET
Has received by the late arrivals,
A Well Selected Assortment of
Silk Linen Drapery, and
Haberdafhety Good«,
Which he will fell, wholesale and retail, on the very
lo\*eft terms ;
Amongst which are
Some elegant 4-4 and 7-8 Chinffies and Cottbns, new
patterns
Ditto Fnrniture ditto
Ditto Dim>ity
Tamboured, Boole, and Jacdnet MttfHna
Ditto in Gold and Silver
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine
Mantuas of the firft qualitj
Silk and Cotton Hosiery
Umbrellas of the firft quality, aflortefl
IriSi Linens, very fine, and Table Linens
Marfeilks and Cotton Counterpanes
Ilofe Blankets alTorted—Zee. &c.
O&ober 26. d
.
For Sale,
By George Defchamps, No. 91,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrAs
and half barrels
Ditto Herring and Mackarel.
Smoaked Herring in barrels and kegs
Ditto Salmon, by the dozen or single one
Dry Codfifh, from one to fifty kentals
Fine and coarse Salt
Nova-Scotia and French Plaster of Paris, 111 the
and ground, £or manure and stucco-work
December I. $tf
For Sale,
A capital stand for bufiaet's—rhat well known tavern,
the F.We and Lambs, North Front Street, No. 333, in the
Northern Libertiss; a briek house containing-nine fire
places, and ten rodtnt well finifhed ; good and
chair-house, With a irame-houfe on Water street ; the
build:#g stands on fonr lots, seventeen feet front each,ma
king a front on firont-ftrset, thirty four feet, and nearly
the fame on Watcr-ftreet, and is one hundred and forty
feet deep frosn Greet o street, fubjeft to j£B. 10s. each
lot per annum, ground rent, this property u near the hay
fcales, and public docks, easy communication with the
Delaware waters and aivaatageoufly Gtuated for bufinefo
of various kinds
The above premises ate now rented uhtil December
ne*t at £.17$ per *nnum. —Enquire of toe Printer.
Dec. 12. §iwiaw6w.
CAUTION. ,
WHEREAS very large and heavy i'ehn are
due and owing from meflrs. Blair i/L'Clcnacban and
Patrick Meore, of the city of Philadelphia merchants,
trading wnder the firm of Blair M'Glenachan and P.
Moore, and frum Blair M'Clenarban in his separate
capacity ; to which, by the lalws of the land, all the
joint as well as separate property of the said Oen'le
men, is, and *ught to be, liable. And whereas
it is clearly and .fatisfaftorilv ascertained, that mr.
Blair M'Clenatbafi, of the said firm,- has Conveyed
away to inr. Jebn H. ilhjlor., his fcn-in law, to hi*
daughter, miTs M'Clenaclian, and to his son, George
M'CletiacL'«»i fs\eral large and valuable rial eitates,
as well as cotifiderable perioral property, in the city
and county of Philadelphia, in the county of Lancas
ter, in the county of New-Castle on D'Jawarc, and
<lfewhere, with a vi«w, as it is apprehended, 10 de
feat the Creditors in the recovery of their just debts.—
This is, therefore, to forewarn all persons whomso
ever, agsinft the purchase from the said grantees, or
either of them, of any portion of the said real or per
sonal property, as the moll vigbrous measures will
without delay be taken to render the fame liable to
the just demands oj' the Creditors.
By order of the Creditors.
Thomas Fitz/imons, ~~1
Philip Nicklm, /
jfaac //barton, J 1- Committee;
William M'Murtrie, \
s Samuel W. Fijher,
Philadelphia, December 17th, 1796. acth.}
- —— ——.— ~
I TO THE PUBLIC.
THE caution introduced into the public
wafning all persons against purchasing from the
jranteesof Blair M'Clenachan, any portion of the
n large, real and ptrfonal ellates h(e conveyed' away to
n his fon-in law and to his children was the result of
a deliberation had upon the fub}e£t by a general and
- numerous meeting of the creditors as well of Blair
M'Clenachan and P. Moote as of Blair M'Clena
chan individually. It was no more than an execu
tion of that trust confided in the fubferibers by
those creditors: a step which it woold have been a
m bieach of duty' and honor in them to have omitted,
id The very ftatcment of the fa£l therefore mull dif
*• pel the imputation that it was. either " precipitate
or vindifliVe." It originated in a desire to frcure
the property of the debtor as a fund for the pay
ment of his just debts. It was fan&ioned by the
j' advice of council as' a rtreafure necejfary to the fafety
of the creditors. If the advertisement has been
le injurious to Mr. M'Clenachan he owes that injury
50 to his own unjuftitiable conduiS, not to the iub-
fcribers who have merely publilhed the truth in
i g terms as mild as the fadt vfoilld admit, and who
a ' mean to investigate in a high court of justice the
validity of thile purchafeSj of whicb Mr. M'Cle
naehan so confidently speaks.
d Tfee fubferibers therefore are bound by a sense
of duty to the creditors in general to repeat their
]' caution. againtl purohafing of those grantees or
jf either of them, and to extend tbe terms of it to a
at purehafe from any other persons (if such there br)
10 to whom Mr. M'Clenachan fnay have made similar'
at
conveyances.
io (Signed) T. FITZSIMGNS,
P. NICKLIN,
■ h ISAAC WHARTON,
„ WILLIAM M'MURT.IIE,
ot SAMUEL W.FISHER.
" Philad> Dee. 21, 1796.
»rt »
)( j Those printers who luve been requcfled tn
publiJt the firft Caution, are defied to publiih t;«
if, I »tfa-NEW THEATRE. ,
- n FRIDAY EVE N-IN G, December 30,
Will be printed,
A COMEDY, called
The Wheel of Fortune.
••Written by Richard Cumberland, Esq. author of the
Jew, Weft-ladian, See. and performing at the
Theatre Drury L»ne, London, with unbounded
ap^'.aufe.
Sir David Daw, Mr. Francis
Tempest, Mr. Hartvood
Penruddock, Mr. Cooper
- Woodville, . Mr. IVwren
Sydenham, Mr.
Henry Woodville, Mr. Moreton
Weazle, Mr. Blifett
Woodville'i Servant, Mr. Mitchell
/Officer, Mr. M'arrel!
Jenkins, Mr. Darley, jun.
James, Mr. Worrell, jun.
■Richard, : Mr. A. organ
Harry, Mr. M' Do mid
Thomas, Matter Harrell
Mrs. Woodville, Mrs. Mirris
Emily Temped,. Mrs. Merry
Dame Dunckley, Mrs. DoSor
Maid, Miss Milbourne
After which will be performed by the French Com
pany, a celebrated OPERA, in one a<sl, called
La Melomanie.
•
r There will be no performancf on Saturday next
on account of the preparations for some new pieces for
the ensuing week.
Qr. Monday the Tragedy of RIGHARD 111.
a new Ballet composed by Mr. Byrne, and th* favor
ite farce of ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
Bo*, One Dollar twenty-five cents t Pit ©n« Dollar.
And Gallery, half a dollar.
Tickets to be had at H. & P. Rice's Book-store,
No- s® High-ft#et, and at the Offiae adjoining the
. Theatre.
Piaees for the Boxes to be taken at the Office in the
front of the theatre, from 10 till i o'clock, and from
jo till 4 on'the days of performance.
The Doors of the Theatre will open at 5, and the
Curtain rile precisely at 6 o'clock. *
Ladies and Gentlemen arc requested to fend their
servant* to keep places a quartet- before 5 o'clock, and
to order them, as soon as the company are seated, to
withdraw, as they cannot on any account be permit
ted to remain.
riFAT RES PUBLIC A!
College-Hall.
Readings and Recitations,
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining.
Mr. FENNELL
Refpedlfully informs the Public,, that
On THURSDAY EVENING, December 49, at 7
o'clock, will be repeated
AH ExPLANAitRr ADDRESS.
After which will be recited an Allegorical Poem, m
w three parts, called
The CAVE or NATURE j
Or, A PiAure of the Virtues, Vices, and Paflions,
. ' of the Human Mind. "
Oecalional admifiion tickets to be l]ad of Mr. Pmilfan,
Jun.at the Library ; atmr. M'Elwee's looking-gWs-ftore,
No. 70, South Fourth street ; and at Mr. Carey's, Book
, feilor, MaiJ.ct-flrcet. »
Just Arrived,
Per feboomr Daphne, Captain Morse, fram Abx-
Cayej,
A Cargo of Sugar and Coffee.
Alfa, per brig Betsey, Captain White, from the Isle
of 1' ranee,
7* Hogsheads, 1 puncheon, and 25 caniflers, of
Batavia Sugar
45 Hogsheads Pepper of Malabar
6j,000 lb. Coffee
»3.®00 Cotton
4,000 Indigo——For Sale by
F. Coppinger,
No. tilt South Front-street
December ax §
New-England Rum, Salmon, Beef,
Chocolate, Kice, Bofion mould and dipt Candles, a
, few quarter-calks of Sherry Wine, a few barrels of
Cyder, and a few quintals of excellent T ibie COD
FISH—for sale by
, Ezekiel Hall,
No. 42, North VVater-ftreet.
December 14th, 1796.
Women's Cloaks.
GEO RC E DOBS ON,
No. 2j, South Third-street,
Has just reeeived, per Eagle, Capt. Fofdick, via Lon
don, an assortment of
Scarlet >
Drab (Cloaks trimmed with lur and
P Purple and ( ermin*.
. Pearl J
December 1 J. §
For Sale,
By the Subfcribers—ln BENN-STREET,
, 65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
/ Imported by the Eairle. v
WILLI NGS & FRANCIS.
Nov. 30 - . w&f
Elegant Brussels & Turkey Carpeting,
For sale by' George Dobfon, JNo. 15, South Third-street.
December Xs. dtf
N sa I t pet re.
A large quantity of Double-Refined Salt Pctre for
sale at No. %'s, South Third-street. v
< November, j.
. Waflnngton Lottery.
* TICfaSTS, warranted undrawn, may be purchased or
. exchanged /or prizes* at the Office, No. 147, Chrfnut
f.reet r where a correct Numerical Hook is k<pt for pubiic
isfpc&ion. Also Canal Lottery Tickets for sale ©r cx
changed for prize® di awn in the Waihingtoa Lottery, of
wMch the 50th and 51ft days riturri* are received.
TheJßufinefs of a Broker carried on as usual. x
SHAM in the- NiiW THEATRE to be fold
en feafonabjc terms . ttstf
CONGRESS OF the UNITED STATES.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES*
Monday, December 16. '
A letter was received from the secretary at war,
inclosing a report on the petitiou of Hugh Lawfoti
: White, which was againlt the petitioner. It wis
! | read a second time, committed to a committee of
the whole, and made the order for Wednesday.
Mr. Swanwick presented the petition of Tho
mas Lively, and George Lucas ; Uie former for re
compcnce for horftts impressed into the service of
the United States during the war ; the litter for
services during the war. The latter petitioner it
Bated to hive been one of the ferjeants who pre
ven'e3 the desertion of the Pennsylvania line ; he
prnys also for recompence for unt'tie imprifonmeot
in the gaols of Bedford and Philadelphia on fufpi
rion of having opposed the execution of the excise
laws, of which he had been found perfefily inno
cent. Both these petitions were referred to the
committee of claims.
Mr. Jeremiah Smith presented a petition from
Jofliua Whitney, praying for recompence for his
services during the war. Referred to the commit
tee of claims.
Mr. Livingfton presented a petition from John
Jewel, of New-York, merchant, .praying for the
remiflion of certain duties on part of the cargo of
a veflel from Naples, which had been destroyed in
the late fire. Referred to the I "committee of com
merce and manufactures,
Mr. New moved that the petition of Lawrence
Muse, colhdtor of the port of Tappahannock, be
, referred trt the committee on the fubjeft at torn
• per.fation. Agreed.
A bill was received and read from the Senate,
for allowing additional compensation to the clerks
of the Senate.
t Mr. D. Foster, from the committee of claims,
made a report in favour of John Sears, together
with a billj which was twice read, ordered to be
: committed to a committee of the whole, and made
the order for to-morrow.
Mr. Foster also trnde a report in favour of the
petition of William Parsons.
He also made reports on the petitions of Joseph
Hull, John Learned, George Crukfhank, Joseph
M'Cracky, John Minor, and Robert Harris, which
were againlt the petitioners. They were fsverallr
twice read, and the house concurred in all the re
ports, except that on the petition of Robert Har
ris, which, on motion of Mr. Christie, was refer
red to a committee of the whole, and made the or
der for to morrow.
Mr. W. Smith from the committee of ways and
m«»l, to whom was referred the refolntion direc
ting them to enquire whether any, and if any, what
meafurcs were necelfary tq be taken with refpeft
to the balances found by the commiflioners appoin
ted to fettle the fame, due from certain individual
states to the United' States, reported a refolntion to
the following effect.
" ftefolved by the senate and house df rfprefgn.
tatives, that the President of the United States be
required to give information to the feve'ral Rates
1 which were by the commiflioners found indebted to
the United Starrs, of .the sums in which tney Hand
indebted, together with the interest due thereon to
, the pre Tent time, wiih a request that proviflen may
be made for paying the lame as soon as pollible,
which may be made in any of the fix per cents,
three per cents, or deferred stock of the United
States, in the farfie manner as the United States
had paid those "Hates to whom they were reported
to be indebted by the said commiflioners."
This refolntion was referred so a committee of
the whole, and order for Thursday.
Mr. George Jackson presented a petition from
• ,Amos Hales, on the fubjeA of a purchase of land,
of which he had not been able to get poflVflion.
Referred to a committee of five members.
Mr. Madison presented the memorial of Joseph
Nourfe, register of the treasury of the United
States, praying for an increase of salary. Refer
red to the committee on the fubjedl of compensa
tion.
Mr. Freeman presented the petition of Philip
Tabor, a soldier in the last war, for relief. Refer
l red to the committee of claims.
Mr. W. Smith fai'tl he wilhed to lay * refolntion
• on the table. It was well known that the city of
Savannah, in Georgia, had fuffeted in the most
alarming manner, by that greatell of all calamities,
■ fire ; fa that.four-fihhs of the whale tow# was re
duced to alhesr He was desirous that some relief
(hould be afforded to the unhappy fufferert from
the treasury of the United States. He believed
there was no precedent wherein similar relief had
been granted. They had indeed afforded relief to
fufferert from the Weft-Indies. He did not mean
that a large sum (hould be granted ; but he thto't
fi|ch a sum might be given, as, in conjun&ion with
the support which they might receive from other
quarters, might relieve the distress which must be
the confluence of such a calamity. This refolu
tion was in the following words:
" Resolved, That the fun of ought to be
granted towards the relief of the fuffereis by the
late fire at Savannah in Georgia."
It was read a second time, and ordered to be
committed to a committee of the whole to morrbw.
Mr. W. Smith moved that the bill for the more
effeflnal collection of certain internal revenues of
, the United States be committed to a committee of
the whole house. It was made the order for Mon
day.
Mr. Harper moved the order of the day on the
report of the committee to whom was referred the
memorial of the commilfioner»-of the Federal City,
and so much of the President's speech as related to
a national university. The house accordingly form
ed itfelf into a committee of the whole on that fu
jedt, Mr. Coit in the chair, when the report having
. been read,
Mr. Macon wiflied to know what were the ap
' propriations which had been made towards this ob
jefl ?
Mr. Craik said rh?t the President had given be
. tween nineteen and twenty acrft of iand, -for the
pnrpofe of creating an university.
Mr N:cl:sLs fnpj that tltit iliftrifl of cfltiti
try would one day or other, (land in need of a fe
ininary of learning ; but it appeared to him, that
Miey were about to go into a bufwef? which might
carry them farther than ,they apprehended. He
did titjt think the period was arrived for the infti
tution of a national tiniverOty. He had no idea
, of erecting such an university at this place, which
. could only be done by taking money from distant
p difttiftsof country, which would receive no bene
fit from the institution, as he believed the nearer
home youth could be inftrufted, so as to be in fume
degree under the eye of their parents, the better
p it was for them, both as it refpedted their learning
and morals.—lf a national university were to be
( established, funds fhouid be found to support it.—
_ It was true, the President had recommended this
institution ; but this was no proof that he thought
it was a fubjeit to be immediately set about. It
was the last time he would have an opportunity qf
addreSing them, and perhaps he supposed it might,
be considered at some future period. It would be
many years, he said, before that diftrift would
have ocpafion for an university, and he. was of opi
! nion that gentlemen fiom other partsof the union
, would not fay that they wiftied the inftitrttion. In
deed one thing appeared evident to him, that if
the house entered into the business at all, they
! (hould be looked up to for funds to go through with
, the business.
Mr. Harper said, he thought the gentleman last
l up had not attended to the report. There was no-t
thing in that which went to the pledging of the
Uuited States to find funds, nor was it the obje£t
of the report to eftablidi a national university. He
agreed with that gentleman that we were not ar
rived at the period for such an institution. But if
attention were paid to the memorial on whieh the
report was founded, it would appear that the ob}e£t
! of the commiflioners was not the eftahliftimeut of
ail univeifity, nor of funds, but merely an author
ity to enable them to hold such property as had
beeD and might be appropriated for the purpose.
The President had already given about nineteen
acres of land, and had figuified his intention of
giving 50 (hares in the Potowmac canal. The re
port went no farther than to authorize persons to
hold this and any other property which might be
given to the institution in tmft. He hoped it
would be agreed to.
Mr. Baldwin said, he had not. attended much to
the fubjedt, but he saw no objection to agreeing to
the report. The firft qusftion to be determined
was, Was such an institution defitable ? It there,
be afketf, any other place of education near this
diftriit to which this seminary might be hostile ?
He bjjieved not, bat rather that thediftance of this
place from any other cllaLli(hment of the kind made
it a proper lituation for such an inftiturion. If
desirable, could any one, he added, take such a step
but themselves I It must be allowed they could not.
He therefore thought, if the step jwas proper,
though it might be fifty or a hundred years hence
before such an institution ftiould be'wanted, there
could be no harm in taking it now. It might be
(aid that it was improper for them to make a cor
poration of thit business, but he said this would
not be the firft instance of forming a corporation*
and as no pecuniary iid was contemplated, hetruft
ed there could be no solid objection to the measure.
He (hould therefore vote for the report.
Mr. Craik /hould he sorry, after thi eaition the
committee had obfifrved in forming their report, in
order to obviate all objeiflions, that th»fubje<9.fh«uldbe
clogged with those which it did not merit. If the report
had contemplated the raising of a fund for the support
of the University in question, gentlemen woi|ld hive
had some ground for their opposition ; but, as this
had not been contemplated, he did not expefl to have
heard the report objeited to. In particular he did not
expert to hear it affci ted from the quarter whence it
came, that such institution: were not neceflary in that
country; such an aflertion might have come with
greater propriety from any other part of the Union
than from the southern part of it.—lf the fubjefl was
before them, Mr. Craik said, he fliould find no diffi
culty in (hewing that the Legifisrure of the Union
ought to paternize such an inftitutiqn ; but, as fhif
was not the cafe, but they were merely alked to au
thorize persons to receive what might be given to the
Institution, he hoped that house would not (hut, the
door againlt such donatious. The f.tuation of the ci
ty of Wafliington, would induce many, he said, to
to this institution. It would uot interfere
with ai.y other. Its central lituation rendered it a pro
per situation for filth an University, and all that was
■ wanting from them was the power to receive such do
nations as might be given to it.
Mr. VV. Lyman said he understood that part of the
land appropriated for the publie use of the United
States, was to be appropriatrd to this University.
Did not this (hew, he said, that the United States
meant to patroniz# the institution ? If they were to
take this (lep, he (hould be much surprised if they
were not soon called upon for money. He did not tx
pe& the liberality of individuals would do much.
Was it expeifted, he acted, that the people of the
United States (hould fend their children from all parts
to this institution ? He believed there never wouid be
an institution of this fort that would draw youth from
remote parts of the Union ; End, therefore, those who
contribute towards it at a distance, would receive no
it. He thought they were going too far
in this business. If it wi> the authority to receive do
nations only which was wanted, the state of Mary
land couU grant that , but he did not believe the peo
ple of the United States would wish to negledt all the
schools in the Union, to encourage the National Uni
versity. He believed he had as liberal notions with
refpetl to education as other gentlemen ; buthctho't
fmallltademies more ufeful than large national efhb
- lilhmef ts \tfhich were not within the reach of the peo-,
. pie at large—a few only could partake of the benefits
o such an eliablifhment; and he believed, if thev
looked only amongst our own countrymen, it would
be found that these academies had produced many emi
nent charaifters. He supposed it would -be neceflary
to have some place of education within that diftrifl ;
butbe hoped no plan would ever be adopted, which
(hould draw from remote parts of the Union,
which could not derive any benefit from tie itlftitu
tion.
Mr. Dayton ( the Speaker) said, if it should ever
be the polity of the United States to establish a Na
tional University, he was of opinion this was an impro
per time for making the decision. He did not be
lieve the committee who made tha report meant to
do more that had been ftatedj but the elfedt he said,
would be, what had been predicted ; this measure
would be looked upon as an entering wedge, and the;
(houldhereafter be tpld they must i»o through with it.
If gentlemen were prepared to fandtion an iuftttutioii
of (ills kim?, ther would of :ou.-'e doit: he -wis nnj
prepared to vote tor ihe ineai'urc, but ihuuld give i t
his negative.
£To be continued.]
PARIS, (3 VINDEMAIRE,) Sept. 29.
LIBEL
yigainfi the French Government.
In yeßerday's fitting of the council of five hna
dred, a pamphlet was denounced written by the
ci-devant count de Carruel Beauvert, which coa
taint aparall'l between the new and ancient regimen,
and the a&ual expence of the diredlory, and that
of (he ancient court. It leads to th's ncfeffn y
conclufioa, that the royal despotism was infinitely
better than that of the republic. A motion ws»
nude to prosecute the author «f this pamphlet,
which wa» adopted. This fu je& bronchi on a dif.
cuffion, in the course of which, Bom d >n de I'Oif*
complained of the licetitioufnefs with whith certain
reprefentativet ef the people, in their periodial
publications, vomited forth iln nwft infamous ca-
Ismnies against their colleagues. Several *oice*ex»
claimed, "It is Louvet ! It is Poultier." Bout
don proposed that no deputiei should be allawcd t»
published Journals.
Rouhier likewise spoke with much warmth against
those atrocious Ttrrorifts who noW'ithftanding their
crimes, are still proteiled and therefore rcfume all their,
former audaciousness and over-run the fuburlis, preach,
ing up the decemviral code of 1793. They demand
reveng? far the death,of the Brigands of Grenelle,
They repeat the a&sof acculation drawn up l>y Louvet.
against the new third.
BY ,T]tflS DAY's MAILS.
CHARLESTON, December ia.
Extract of a letter from Columbia, dated the Bth
imlam, in the i veiling. '
" This day the following elections took placc fa
the legislature—
" Governor—Charles Pinckney, Esq.
" Lieutenant governor—>Rrbert Anderfon, Esq.
" Senator of the' United States—John Hunter,
Esq.
" Powder-receiver—Mr. John Loveday.
" Ordinary for Georgetown diltriiS—Comeliu*
Dupre, Esq.
" On Wsdnefday a motion waa made that a
committee be appointed to bring in a bill to pievwt
the importation of negroes into this state. Ayes,
| 67. Nays, 36.
I " Mr. liard waa not a candidate forrfhe govern
! ment.
" Henrv Laurens, Esq. had 53 votes for gover
nor ; and John Chefuut, Esq. 66 votes for senator
to Congress. Sixty-nir.e was a m«joritv of the
| honfes.
" The Appian business somes on to-m irrow.**
NORFOLK, December 19.
This morning arrived the sloop Prefirlent, Capt
Whitfield, who inform' that the brig Pence, Capt.
Salter, of Philadelphia, 11 jveeks from the,bay as
Honduras, loaded with mahogany and logwood,
was driven ashore at the mouth of Chin?otigue ri»
ver at eight o'clock on Friday eveuing last {the
17th inft.) at which place Capt. Whi held left
him ; after flood tide the following day captain
Whitfield fnrnifhed him wiih water and other ne
cefTaries. Capt. Salter was in foundings fifteen
days ago, but was driven out to sea, where lie
perienced many heavy squalls, which occaTioned
the brig to make so much water thai the pump*
were kept constantly going. There wns lix nnd a
half feet watei in the hold when Capt. Whitfield
got under way, and no profpe£t of getting her
off.
Commodore Barney, with twro frigates, an
chored in Hampton Roads yeilerdav.
T he SpaNish fquajron at Trinidad are expe&ed
at Gnadalonpc.
The Leogane privateers, it is said, have left off
ciuizirg, as the adminillration took the cargoes of
the prizes, and pocketed the money.
Dirturbancjs continued at Port de-Paix O&o
---bcr 22.
NEW-YORK, December 2j.
1. ■ A
It is a ciicurtiflance we mention with extreme
regret, that there is ground to believe the bold and
audacious villainy now prafiifed in this and other
cities, has been encouraged by the relaxation di
criminal law. It is nbferved by the judges,, that
culprits formerly tried for their lives, never appear
ed at the bar to receive sentence without trembling,
and every nerve agi ated. The cafe is now altered.
Criminals whose punishment is imprison
ment,- when called to the bar to hear their sentence,
approach with levity and even gaiety. This was
so obvious at the late court, that it was hardly pos
sible far a judge to assume a felemn countenance
when he pronounced sentence. This is a iWbjeft
of a feriou3 nature } and tho we arc decided friends
of lenity, it appears doubtful whether in the pre
sent Bate of society, the abolition of death for
certain crimes, will not produce alarming conse
quences.
At the close of every war, the prices of proper
ty, of all kinds, never fail to fall. This cirtum.
(tance alone would always produce much embartafv
ment to men in commerce, manufa&urrs and sgii
rulturc. But the fpeculatioi sin land, in the Urn",
ted States, are among the umft fruitful foiiices of
embarrassment. They have given rife to a fyftern
of credit, which involves inextricable diffi ulties
and misfortunes. The multitude of basks in this
country, destined originally to aid thr merchant;
solely, have contributed much to augment the pre
sent calamities of bufinefs-they have been'too
raudi used to support speculating projefls, by eras
ting enormous credits.
Tothefe foufces »f emharrafiment, m«ft be adi
ded the enormous defalcations from tlie capital of
our merchants, by the seizure and detention of
their property, by th» English and French. An
exact eaimateof the amount of American pioper.
ty thus fetzed, or detained unpaid for, cannot be
known, but the fallowing will be fotmd not hi girt,,
than the truth. * ,Britijb, ♦
Capture* of American reffels tinder the British
orders of Not. 6, 1793
300 reffels estimated on an average at
10,000 dollars each 3.000,000
Subfeqii'n' cap'tires and detentions of
provision vessels, the payment for
which is promised by the British go
vernment _ • 1,500,060
4,500,000
French.
American property fold to the French
government, from '92 to '96. not
yet paid for by an offi-ial return,
Sept. 96, nearly 35,000,000 livres 7,000,000
Vessels seized, and cargoes detained or
fold in the We ft-Indies, aboat 100
1 k'l i, 000,000
8,003,000
It is probable that this amount of twelve millions
and a half of American capital is now in the hands
of the British and French. The seizures under
the orders of Nov. 6,. have been declared by the
British admiralty mostly illegal, and reflitution
twarded. Bat the money is not paid. The French
government have also promised to fulfil their con
tract, but imperious necejfity has yet picvnted.
Such defalcations from the capital of our mer
chants mult fererely affect the course of business.
On Sunday morning lall at about 4 o'clock, one
of the patroles of the second ward discovered in
Mr. Patten s Cooper (hop in Depeyfter street, a
light. Upon examination, a considerable paicel of
coopers (havings were on firt upon the hearth, ha
ying from appearances, communicated from fire left
in the fire place, and would, in all probability, '
have set the shop on fire, had not the patrole extin
guished it. Ihe window of the shop was open.
The patroles of the fame ward fonnd two men
and a woman fitting by a very large fire in the coo
per's shop of Mr. Wilson, near the Old (lip, until
2 o cluck on Sunday morning. There was a con
siderable quantity of Savings about the (hop, from
which the fire was kept up. The mailers of such
fliops ought to take care of the fire themLlves.
ARRIVALS.
- Ship Neptune, Jcfferfon, Lisbon, 64 days.
December 1. Spoke the (hip Camilla of Phila
delphia, 41 days fiom St. Übes, bound to Phila
delphia, lit. 33, 16.
Philadelphia,
THURSDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 19, 175-5.
*
Return or Fgtks TZ T|
for 5V J i £ -
PRESIDENT I-I . I £-8 3
AND i S «&. L .
VIC&P,RESIDENT o
New-Hampih i f e> I 6: 11 1 1, 1 I 6
MalTachufetts, 16! 13 2 1
Rhode-lfland, 4I 4
Connecticut, 94 j
Vermont, 4
New-Ym-k, nil
New Jert'ey, 7 7
Pennsylvania, 1 i 14 13
Delaware, * 3 I
Maryland, 7 4 4'.? 2
Virginij, I 110 115 -3 r
Kentucky,
T'nneflee,
North-Carolina, 1 1 11 6 I
South-Carolina, j 8 8; ;
Georgia, ! 4! 4
Total, . 71 59 61:23 n ! 1 _51_7 2 211
In North-Cnroliha, one vote was given for Charles
Pinckney, and three for Judge Iredell.
Ext/aft of a letter from Baltimwe,"dated 27th
December, 1796.
" Cap'. Barney has arrived lit with two
frigates, a id is himfdf at Baltimore, and publicly
declares he has received orders from the Dire&ory
to capture all American vessels, bound to and from
Engliih ports, either in Europe or elsewhere "
Genuine extraS of a letter from a icery refptSahle
gentleman in a country town in Nc-u> England.
" Is there no way to flop the impeitinence and
insolence of French ministers?
" The people in this quirter are vtniverfally filled '
*. ith indignation, and lament that there is a
■Frenchman to be seen in the United States."
Extract of d Letter from a Genileman in Annapolis,
to his Friend in this City, dated December 27.
" Last evening, commodore Batmey and a Fiench '
General from St. Domingo, arrived in this City.
The Commodore's Fleet is at Norfolk—The Ge
neral is on his way to New Yotk, to .go to France
in a corve'te, to fail fr»m that plate as soon as it '
shall be officially declared who is tlie President of 1
the United States. Barney fays, should Arfams '
be ele£ted we (hall certainly be engaged !
in a war with France in less than three months :—
and he knows not how we could have avoided that 1
misfortune, but by electing Mr Jefferfon our Pre- '
fident, who (lands much higher with the French
nation than any other man in our country. He
fays he has positive inftruttions to take all Ameri
can vessels going to «r coming from British ports ;
but the vessels and cargoes are not to be disposed
•f, 'till further orders,"
COMMUNICA TION3.
The Aurora fay*, •« When tha Minister of the '
French republic prtfumes to publish to the Ameri
can world, a decree of his nation, that deeply con
cerns their interefls, it is " an outrageous attempt
upon the dignity of an independent nation "
It is wonderful, that the Aurora should desert
its paymaftersin the hour of their difttefs, and have
honesty enough to publish, for once, the truth.
The democrats in. the Aurora, affect to make a
doubt, whether a President 6f the United States
(hall bc'appoiiiitd by the Jacobin members of the
Ho«fe of Reprefentativsj, J n 0 f , majority
'of the "f the cicftora cbofrn by the people.
From the Aurora.
1 " The honour and dignity of the nation are treat
ed as empty founds, that ought not to lead us astray
from our interefls, when the British plunder our
defeneelpfs merchantmen, violate the neutrality of
1 oar Hag within our very waters"
This i» very severe on our democrats in Congrcfs,
w% said blulter, talk big, and thea—why, then
sneak They would not go to war in any event.
The faderal men faid—negociate, prepare for war,
do every thing to avoid war—and if negociation
fails, then assert your rights at the point of the
sword. These are fa£ts.
From the Aurora.
" A late Secretary wiilied, that the citizens of
the western counties would burn Pittfburgrh—And
probably Jaime of his partisans are fulfilling the
wish of this incendiiry in different parrs of the con
tinent. He wished Pittsburgh burned to give go
vernment a pretext for glutting its vengeance ; and
hit partisans may think, that setting fire to the dif
ferent cities on the continent, may give them an
opportunity of implicating the democratic repub
licans, and give them a coup de grace."
The above, fays a correspondent, can allude on
ly to the Secretary of the Precious Coofeffions.
When the people of the United States discover
tha f t the warmest terms of friendfhip have been made
[ use of by any nation to cover designs hoflile to
their interefls and their independence, however lull
ed by foft founds for a time, however pleasing na
tional friendfhip may have'appjared to their philan
thropic andgenerous hearts, they will be aroused to
an .indignation and a contempt of their insidious de
ceivers, proportioned to the value thry had set up
on sincere promises. When they (hall know, as
soon they will, that it has heeri the horrible design
of the French, to gain the direction of our Ex
ecutive ; and to do this, that they lay it down as |
a fettled plan of afiion./o projlrate the character of
IVafhington, and to produce a total change in the
j»rm of the Executive in,to a DinSsry of Five, the |
good sense of the people will perceive the extreme i
danget of putting themselves, as in many parts of <
the union the Jacobins have done, under the '
ance of any foreign influence whatever. They will
then fee how effeiitial it is to know less of fereign
agents, and to adhere to a government of their own
adoption— to men of their own choice. It will
soon be fonnjl, that the maxim, that tut ought nei- 1
ther to love nor to hate any foreign nation, is a found
one. Had the people of the union displayed in fa
your of the BHtifh the fame enthiifialtic, blind and
ignorant love which they Lave toward# the French,
we should have seen similar efforts made bv the Bri
tish to involve us in a cornmoa war against France,
and similar appeals to the people to set them against
iheir government. The British court would have
confideted, this overflowing Love of the people was
an invitation to them to interfere in our affairs ; j
and as (killftil politicians, they would not have been
juftifiable to their own nation, if ihey had not foiz
ed a fit oat ion of things so favourable to the promo
tion of their own inrerelts and views against France.
The wild attachment of the people to the French
catife, and to the French nation, proceeded from
sympathy at firft, and was augmented by a rooted
avetfion to Great-Britain. This temper the French
nave had art enough to turn to their advantage ;
and flattered into a belief, that the fame people who
had affections for a foreign nation, could have no
fettled principles, and lio national character of their
own, they have a ventured, in the moll open/nan
net, to make an appeal from»the government to the
people, with a fixed deteimination to threaten us
into one of two things—a civil war between those '
traitors who would support them, against those
who would cling to the government—or, into a war !
with Great-Britain. lhele evils, it may '
be avoided by that man on whom all hearts and eyes '
are turned; who, it is believed, may yqt be able to '
conciliate the fitmnefs and dignity of his indipeu '
dent country, with the reftoraiion of harmony with '
our ambitious filter republic. His endeavouts
mud however depend for fticcefs on the firm coun !
tenance of om freemen. Tha evil has sprung from 1
a national disease ; the nation malt aid the removal '
of that evil, by discarding from their bosoms those
exotic poisons, that have unhappily invited the en
croachments of the French government.
The Aurora talks of removing the statues and
paintings from Italy, in order to take the dufl off them.
This may be well enough—But it reminds one of
a char after in Hamlet, who, wishing to get out of
the air, was afksd, whither he would fly from it f- '
Into the grave, replied he. '
<
Mr. Bache thinks, the piiftures and statues plun
dered from Italy, will be brought fafely. Their '
hze, their delicacy, the badness of the roads over ! 1
the Alps, forbid the hope that the eminent artifls 1
(French grenadiers) will get them fafely to Paris. J
t here, fays Mr. Bachc, they will do more good
thaniin the cloilters of monks. There, it maybe '
allowed, they will eternise the barlarifn of the
trench. What fine keepers of books, pictures, '
and statues the French artists (armed with pikes) ;
will prove in future, may be conjeaured from the 1
pad.
" For five years, whatever was precious in paint
ings and libraries, has been destroying, or felling at
a vile price to Itrangers—eat by worms—exposed
to dull and rain. The library at Arnfey has been <
put into bog {heads." " Hoi ace and Virgil have i
been made walte-paper, because ihey acknowledged I
tyrants."
" At Lyons, Soo antique medals of gold were <
melted down.'' I
" At Nancy, the value of 100,000 crowns, in '
books and pidtures, was drftroyed."
" Learned men were Men
of genius fhotild be guillotined. The national li
brary should be burned.''—Gregoire's Report.
Captain Jeffup was cruelly whipped by captain
Pigot, and a young American gentleman was im
f p'eff-d end (hoi at. Thcfe fa&s ara rehted dai'y
'"the Aurora, with evident fatisfatlion, as a<ty dis
cerning reader will plainly discover. The repetition
of them evinces a desire of the party to palliate the
■ outrage offered to the country, by the
ing minister ; and, fccondly, to criminate our go
vernment, aj if it had to answer for the injury to,
captain Jeflup, and the perfwn who was (hot at.
Fadls, that tend to either of these points, are mat
ters of joy and exultation to the party: and if all
our captains (were whipped, and their m«n all im
prefled, the party would tejoire, because they.would
expe& to gais (Irength by every new cause of irri
tation. Like their paymasters, they would acenfe
our government of having allowed the Britifhtodo
It. Not one instance has yet occurred of the admini
(l rat ion having neglefled the interest of the citiiens.
It is no thaniis to the party in Congress or out that
our pnfoners are not now in Algiers— that our ships
are not all captured and without compenfarion. In
every tranfaaion the vigilance and faithfulnefs of
government have left the Jacobins no right to find
fault. And in no instance have they a right to
boast of their own-spirit to affcrt American dignity
aid hoaor.
When they marched under a French flag to '
vott, when they formed mobs to protest privateer
ing, when they aided Genet in their clubs, riototis
afTembiirs, See. to levy war within our territory and i
to |nfell our goeernment. Surely in neither of
those instances have they cause to boast.
Some years ago, a sea-captain was whipped by
a Frenchman They were calm enough then. Our
veffals were (lopped in France, ftired on the high
seas, and many millions of property are taken from
us, without profpeft of compensation. The Jaco
bins bear this wonderful well—better, it seems,
than to have our veflVls carried into England, and
PAID FQR. To insult our government, to med
dle in our elections, to rob our merchants, to break
Memn treaties, to tamper with the weltern settlers
all this, and more, our Jacobins bear: ar»d what
is (Iranger than all, they—yes! by all that's im
pudent ! -- they talk of aliening our itational ho
nour ! dignity ! and independence !
The Bo don Chronicle remarks on the
thanksgiving, " Thit we ought to humble ourselves for
our rebellious iifpofition"- which that truly independ
ent gazette exemplifies in our demeanor towards God
and the French Republic. Modern patriotism and the
wodhip of lit of on seem to have made some progress in
Boflon. .
■I 11
rfterday, at 11 o'clock, a deputation from the
Grand Lodge of the Ancient and Hfcnoiable
Fraternity of Free and Accepted Mafsns in Penn
fvlvania, waited on the President of the United
States, when the following address was delivered
to him by 'he Grand Mailer :
To GEORGE WASHINGTON, PrefJent of the
United States.
The Address of the Grand Lodpe of Pennsylvania.
Moji refpeSed Sir and Brother ;
Hiving announced your intention to retire from
public labor to that rejrtjhment to'which yottr pre
eminent services, for near hWlf a century, have so
juC.ty entitled you, permit t" t Grand L<vige of
Pennsylvania, at this la 11 fcalfc of our. £vai)geli<* I
Ma ft er St. John, on which we csb hope for ao im J
mci'iaic communication with you, to join the
grateful voice of ouj country, in acknowledging
that you lij»e carried forth the principles of the
Lod;:r into every walk-ofyour life by,your con
(lint labors for the prosperity offhat country ; by
your unremitting endcWors to piomote order, 11-
nion, and brotherly affVftion amongst us; ar.d last '
ly, by the vows of your farewell address to yout
brethren and fellow-citizens—an address, which, '
we trust. our children and our children's children
will ever look upon as a mofl invaluable legacy ]
from a Friend, a Benefadtr, and a Father.
Fo these our grateful acknowledgments, (leav- t
ing to the impartial pen of history to record the 1
important events in which you have borne so illuf
trtous a part) permit us to add our mo(t fervent
prayers, that, alter enjoying to the utmost span of 1
humaij life, every felicity which the terrestrial lodge
can afford, you may be received by the Great Mas
ter Builder of this World, and of Worlds unnum
bered, into the ample felicity of that celejlial lodge,
in which alone diftinguilhed virtues and diftisgulh :
ed labors can be eternally rewarded. 1
By the unanimous o»der of the Grand Lodge
of Pennsylvania.
WM. MOORE SMITH, G. M. ]
December 27th, Anno Lwcis, 5796.
To which the President was pleaf«d to reply :
Fellow Citixrns, and Brothers of the
Grand Lodge of Pennfylvania,f
1 have received yonr addrels with all the feelings
of brotherly affection, mingled with those lenti- |
ments for the society which it was calculated to
excite.
To have been in any degree an instrument, in \
the hands of Providene*, to promote order and-u- .
nion, and ere&, upon a solid foundation, the true 1
principles of government, is only to have shared, ]
with many others, in a labour, the result of which, ■
let us hope, will prove, through all ages, a Sane- 1
tuary for Brothers and a Lodge for tht Virtues. • j
Permit me to reciprocate your prayers for my
temporal happimfs, and to supplicate that we may '
all meet hereafter, in that eternal temple ; whose
buildet is tSe Great Architect of", the Universe.
Go. WASHINGTON.
K
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
That it (hall and may be lawful for the citizens
ef the United States of America to import into
}he Btitifh ports of St. Domingo in their own vef
fels the following enumeiated articles, viz.
Flour, bread, biscuit, pease, beans, potatoes,
wheat, rice, oats, batley, and grain of any fort ;
tobacco, pitch, tar, turpentine, hemp, *fiax, malls,
yards, bowsprits, slaves, headings, timber, shin
gles, and all forts of lumber; horses, neat cattle,
(heep, hogs, poultry and live (lock of any fort.
And the following articles are allowed to be "
imported until further public notice be given :
Claret in hogsheads and cases, hogs lard, sweet
oil, onions, apples and oiher gretr, fruit } b?ef,
pork and 6(h.
I No goods or whatever (Jiall fx- Im
- ported or brought from the United States of Am-.
• r *'' n ,nt " »-iy P°rt,or ports of St. Domino in pos
e feflion of the British after this date, except the
-« ahove, under the penalty of the forfeieme thereof,
and also the (hip or veflel in which- the fame shall
lie brought, togeihet with her guns, furniture, am
• munition, tackle and apparel.
"G. FORBES. Maj. Gen.
1 Port nu Prince, August ill, 1796.
c. W. PEAL E,
t To the Citizens of Philadelphia.
, Willing to contribute my mite to aflifl the fuffirers at
Sava»nah, I propose to aopropriate the produAs of the
Mu&um.ofl Wednef<lay, of January next, for that
cxprefs purpose. rhe con (lan; call for my daily exerti
ons, to prepjre the numerous febjeefb for the mufium,
has, and will for a long tim« t» come, prevent me frost
giving my personal attendance on the visitors of this re
• pofitory : But on this particular occasion, it is my inten
tion to he prcfent the whole day ; and it will give me much
pleasure to fee the rooms crouded from the early morn
until ten o'clock at night.
N. B. C. W. Peale during the lafl nine months, his
made uncommon exertions to enrich and improve the Mo
feum, ahd although it is not yet "what it ought to bt with
the aid of the City of Philadelphia, the praprietor tf
; furei the public that It is «!aily prsgreffing in ufefulnefs ;
and the constant visitor will always find some additions
j to elevate his mind, and call forth ft ntinunts of love, won
der and admiration of the jvifdom of the great creator of
all things.
Mufeu'm, Dec. 9. tw _
NOTICE.
Those Gen:lemen who hold any of the undermen
tioned Notes of Draughts (whether due or nctj arc
requested to meet at the City-Tavern on Wednesday
n*xt, at ft o clock in the evening ; at which time ail
arrangement will be jjropofed which it-is expeaed will
be fatiifai)ory to th« holders.
Edward Fox's notes in favor of James Greenleaf.
James Green'eaf's notes in favor of Edward Fox'.
J •lines Greenleaf s draughts on Edward Fox.
Abraha,m Dubois s note to Edward Foj^
Edward Fox's note to Abraham Dubois.
Jamts Greenleaf's draughts on Abraham Dubois.
At the requtjl of a major part of the GtntUmt»
interejled.
EDWARD FOX.
Deeember 19. d tw
A PRINT. " T
MR. SAVAGE begs leave to inform the fubferibert
to the Portrait of David Rittsnhouse, l. l. b. r. *. a.
Prefideut of th% American Philosophical Socicty, that it
is ready for delivery,
Subfcrikiers may have their prints put into elegant gilt
and burnished frames, fimlhed every way in a much
better manner than those things are generally done, at
nine dollars each, print included.
Third door well of Tenth-ttreet, in Chefnut-ftreet.
December 19. ' J
WANTE 1),
A MECHANIC, to ere (ft Spinning and Weaving
Machines by water, such as are used at my manufac
tory-Apply to JAMES DAVENPORT,
No. 401, North Front-street.
N. B. None need apply but a complete mechanic,
and a man of liability.
Globe Mill, December 19, 1796. J
A Gold Watch was Found
A few days ago, in the lower part of Second-ftreNk
The owner, on calling at No. 117 in said street, and
proving it to be his or hais by a description in writing,.
may receive it on paying for this advertilcme-nt.
December 29 3
A Ball.
J. DOZOI.'s Ball will be held on Friday next, the
30th December, at Mr. Oellera's hotel, and continue
every fortnight during the season.
Gentlemen's tickets at one dollar each, to be had at
the hotel, where ladies who choose to honour him
withtheir company may alio be supplied with tie'reta.
J. Dozol refpeitfully infbimi the ladies and gentlemen,
that he Hill continues his dancing school at the above
-hotel, and the hours of attendance for ldies are from
ten to one in the morning, and tor gentlemen from fix
to nine in the evening, on Monday, Wednefdayand
Friday, during the season.
N. B. Private lellons will be given, either at his
school, or at the houses of those who may choose to fa
vor him.
Pec- *9- ' §2t.
To the Public.
IT has been the wiihofalmoft every class of citi
zens in America, that a Gazette might be publifbed in
the Metropolis, o«« a which would exclude ad
vertisements altogether. A large sheet, an this plan
would contain all the intelligence, foreign and domes
tic j—it would come to the fubfenbers at a small ex
pence,c< spared with that ot the Daily papers,* a
great proportion of which is neceflariiy filled with ad.
vertifementa i —it would beeafily preserved and bound
in a volume at the end of each year, or be convenient
ly transmitted to correfpondcnts in any part of the
world.
The firft number of a paper on this plan to be entit
led
THE UNIVERSAL GAZETTE,
will be published in the city of Philadelphia on Thurf
-1 day the jth day of Jaauary, 1797. It will be printed
with an elegant type, on paper equal in size and
quality to that on which the Philadelphia Gazette is
printed ; and it will eontain every article of foreign
and domestic news, including the arrival of veflels
price offtock&c. and a corredt account of the pro
ceedings of Congress, with an authentic copy of the
laws ot the United States, from the begining of the
prcfent session of the Federal Legislature.
The priee of the Universal Gazette, exclusive of
postage, will be feur dollars per annum, to be paid in
advance, in Philadelphia, yearly ; untefs inllruilions
(hall be given by the fubfenbers to their correfpond
cnts in the city, whs will engage to pay the fubferip
tion money as it becomes due
Orders for this paper, post paid, are to bcaddrefled
te Andrew Brown, at the office of the Philadelphia
Gazette, No. 19, Chefnut-ftreet, who will be airfwer
able for all money advanced on account of the Unjver
fal Gazette.
* A Daily Paper, by pojl, frnt any dijlance within
one hundred miles, eojls the fubferibers twelve dollars,
and twelve cents, per annum ; any dijlance beyond
one bundrtd miles, it eojls th'trtem dollars and J'xty
eight cents, per annum, including p"Jinge.
The Universal Gazette, by excluding uivertifementt
will contain all the intelligence oft'ee <u>etk, and ccjl the
fubferibers by pajl, any distance within one hundred
miles, only foiir dollars aid fifty-two cents, per an
num ; —any dijlance beyond one hundred milt r, it will
cojlonly four dollars endfeventj-eigbt cents fer anr, unit
including postage.
Dec. 19. *31FOR SALE,
A PLANTATION,
I vAjT T3 miles from this City, fttuate' in Aldington i
J*. Yownfhip, Montgomery-County ; containing 7°
rcres, anew ftoce houfe,two flories high, 2 rooms on v ,
floor, fire placcs in each, a done kitchen and stone Jpri:g
lmufe, over an excellent spring of water, a barn, ft able, ,
iheds, barracks, &c. A large apple orchard, and a variety j
of other fruit, about 12 acres of good meadow well water
ed, and wood fufficietft for fire, and fencing the place.
Possession may he had the ift of April next. Property in
this C ity will be taken in exchange. Enquire it No, 37,
Arch-§treet.
Philadelphia, September 13,1796. ttftf
TO BE SOLD,
A LEASE for seven years, from the 2sth March next, in that
capital and beautiful FARcalled.
P R O S P E C T-H ILL,
Situated within one quarter of a mile from the Brandy win®
Mills, and half a mile from the borough of Wilmington.
dwelling house is built of stone, two stories high,
genteclv finished, and contain sfotir handsome rooms on
a floor, besides an entry, with capital garrets, and convenient
cellars It is generally thought to command the most a
greeable profpeft of the Delaware, from the fouice of that
livtf to the Capes. This profpeft ia greatly embellished by
a full view of a vast body ot meadow, through which the
Christiana and Brandvwine creeks are (een winding in beau
tiful meanders. Near ihc house are a Kitenen, a spacious
stone ftajile and hayloft, a barn, a tarriage house, miU
houfe, &c. and a well of as puie water as.any on the cOnti
nent. The garden contains an acre and quarter of land, a
bounding with fruit, and pariicularly with peach trees, of
the very best kind, brought from Maryland, and in full bear
ing. There is, moreover, on the place, a young, apple
orchard beginiftir to bear, and leveral old trees that produce
abundantly, besides cherry and other ornamental trees, in
great numbers. The farm consists of near sixty acres of land,
of jjood quality, and clear of incumbrances, except taxes,
-twenty of which are now in excellent clover and timothy,
and ten more will be ready tor lowing next spring. \ re
sidence of nearly 8 years has convinced the fubferiber that
the situation is remarkably healthy, The great post road
from Philadelphia to the Southward runs within seventy
yards of the house. In a word, the beauties and conveni
ence of this situation cannot be enumerated in an advertise-
Enent, and when examined, will probably command the at
tention of any person who isdefirous of living at ojae of the
most elegant country feats on the continent, lhepurehafer
may enter on the premiss next spring, or perhaps, this fall,
if application be immediately made to Doctor NICHOLAS
WAY, i« Philadelphia, to Do&or WH RION, on the
premifei, or, iu his ablence, to Mr GEOhGE TRUi a T, in
Wilmingion.
A quantity of excellent Hay, Grain in the ground, some
3toek, &c. may be had by,the purchaser at the time of sale.
Nov. 7 codtf
James M'Alpin, Taylor,
No. 3, South FourthJlreet,
RETURNS h « grateful acknowledgments to his
Friends and the Public'for their liberal encouragement,
and begs leave te solicit a continuance ol their favori.
He has on hand an extensive aflortment of the
Mojl Fajhionable GOODS,
And of the best quality, fuitahle for the season.
At tills Ihop Gentlemen can be furnifhed withthe best
materials, and have thcai made up in the neatest and most
manner, and on the Ihorteft notice. He will
thankfully receive any orders, and pay a prompt and
pmn&ual attention to them.
November 10.
The Elephant
IS RETURNED FROM BALTIMORE.
THE public arc refpeftfully informed, that
this animal i> to be leen every day, from 8
o'clock in the morning till fun down, in Market
ftreet, No. 106, south fide, between Third and
Fourth-lbeets. '/
Adtfitiance a quarter of a dollar, that every ci
tizen may fee him.
At the request of many persons it will be
exiiibited on evenings from five to eight o'clock,
ct half a dollar each.—The room will be well
lighted. November 7.
Treasury of the United States.
OTICE is hereby given to all persons whb are or
jL\ may be Creditors of the United States, for any sums
of the Funded Debt, or Stocky bearing a pr<fent interejl of ftx
ber eentvm per annum.
i ft, That pursuant to an A <51 of Congress pafled on tke
aßth day of April, 1796, intitledan a& in addition to an
a£, intituled " An a& making further provision for the
support of public credit, and for the redemption of the
public debt," the faiddebt or stock will be reimbursed and
paid in manner following, to wit. " First, by dividends
" to be made on the last days of March, June and Septeni
«« ber for the present year, and from the year one thousand
«• seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year one thou
•« frnd eight hundred & eighteen inclufive,at. the rate of
■ " one and one half per centum upon the origiual capital.
" Secondly, by dividends to be made on the last. day of
" December for the prefect year, and frpm the year one
4 4 thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year
" one thousand eight hundred and seventeen inclusive, at
* the rat;e of three and one half per centum the ori
" ginal capital i and by a dividend to be ma e on the last
«• day of December, in the year one thousand eight hun
" dred and eighteen, of such sum, as will be then ade
•* quate, according to the con trad, for the final redemp
tion of th said flock."
ad. All diftin&ion between payments on account of
xtcrefl and Principal being thus abolished by the establish-;
ment of the / permanent rule of reimbursement above de
cribed, it has become necefiary to vary accordingly the
powers of attorney for receiving dividends; the public
reditors will therefore ofeferve that the following form
seftablifhed for all powers of attorney which may be
granted after the due promulgation ot this notice, viz.
KNOIV ALL MMN'BT THESE PRESENTS) that
1 of .
do makty eonflituie and appoint
of my true and laivful At
tcrncy t for ff*e, cxdin my nxvp, to receive'the dividends which are y
or (hall be payable according to laxv y on the (here deferibing the
stock) (landing in my name in the books of (here deferibuig. the
books of the Treasury or the CommifEoncr of Loans,
where the dock is credited) from (here insert the com
mencement and expiration of time for which the power of
attorney is to continue) ivithJioiver also jm attorney or attor
flics under him, for that purpose to make andfubflitute, and to do all
lawful afls requifrtefor effecting thepremifes, hereby ratifying and
confirming all that my said Attorney or hisfubjiitute } shall lawful
ly do, by virtue hereof.
, In iVitnefs hereof I have hereunto set my Hand and Seal tljf
day of in the year
Sealed and Delivered
in prefenee of, ''
BE IT KNOWN,that on the day of
efore me personally came
within naintd and acknowledged the abeve letter of attorney to be
hit ail and dged.
In tejlimony whereof I have hereunto set my Hani *nd affixr
ed Seal the day and year loft afotcjaid.
Given und*r my Hand at Philadelphia, this twen
tieth day of July 1796, pursuant to dire&ions
from the Secretary of the Treasury.
SAMUEL MEREDITH,
Treasurer of the United States.
Jt4y 2J. w tij
Lottery and Broker's Office,
64, South StcOND srmsT.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 2, for sale—a <
Check Book for examination—and prizes paid, in
the late lottery.
Check Books kept for examination and rrf iftering, for
the City of Waihington, No. 2, and Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information where
tickets are tq be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
examination.
The subscriber solicits the application of the public
and his friends, who wish to purchase or fell Bank Stock, '
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Hcufe6, Lands,
&c. or to Attain money on deposit of property. '
%* Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
sale at Ttn Dollers each, whiah will be drawn early in
the Spring.
Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, Auyuft 18, 1796-
brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE.
No. 63 South Third ftr«et, opposite the national new Bank.
Samuel m fr >un?:ks andjonw van reed,
have entered into co-partnerftiip, under the firm of
FR OUNCES & VAN REED, in the business of Brokers,
| Conveyancers and Comnufiion merchants. They buy ?.nd
fell on commission every fpecie® of itock, notes of hand,
bills of exchange, and lands, &c.
Money procured on depots, kinds cf
writings in tkc conveyancing line, done with nea6ncfsand
dispatch; accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the
most corre A manner. Constant attendance will be given.
They solicit a fliare of the public favor ; they are deter
mined to endeavour to d«ferve it.
N. B. The utmdli secrecy observed.
S AMUEL M. PRAUNCES,
JOHN VAN REED.
Philad. Augufl Z7, 1796. m&wtf
Horses taken in,
For the Winter Sea/on,
And fed on clover hay at the Subfcvibeia place, it
it lies on the Bristol Road, where good stabling is pro
vided, and great care will b« taken of them
William Bell. (
Nov. 23. mwfiwmtfctf.
FOR SALE,,
A very Valuable Eltate,
CALLED TWITTENHAM, lituate in the
townlhip of Upper Derby, and county of Delaware,
7 t-l miles from Phiiad lphia, and half a mile from the
new Western road: containing 230 aires of excellent land,
45 of which are good waured meadow, 90 of prime wood
land, and the reft arable of she firft quality. There are
on the preroifes a good two story brick house, with 4 rooms '
on a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a pump-weH
of excellent water in front; a large frame bain, llablcs, I
and other convenient buildings; a smoke-house and Itone,
spring-house ; two good apple orchards, and one of peach
es. The fields are all in clover, except those immediately j
under tillage, and are so laid out at to have the advantage :
of water in each of them, which renders it peculiarly con- |
venient for grazing. |
The situation is pleasant and healthy, and from the high I
eultivation of the land, the good neighbourhood, and th» |
vicinity to the city, it is very fuilabk for a gentleman's :
country feat.
The foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Harman
deceased. and offered for sale by
Mordecai Lewis,
OA - 11. law Surviving Executor
1 '
.City ol Waihington.
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11,
FOB THE IMPROVEMENT 0 t THS
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent } to,ooo dollars, & J
.dwelling-house, 5 cash 30,000, are 5 '
I ditto 15,000 & cafii 15,000 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 & calh 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & csfli 10,000 ao,ooo
I ditto' 5,000 & calh 5,000 10,00b
1 ditto 5,000 & cafli 5,000 10,000
I cash prize of 10,000
a do. 5,000 each, are • 10,000
ro do. ijQoo - » 10,000
20 do. 500 • • lO'jGOO
00 do. 100 • - 10,000
aoo do. 50 10,000
400 do. 45 • - 10,000
1,000 do. 10 - ao,ooo
15,000 do. 10 • 150,000
16,739 Prizes.
33*261 Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity of
Tickcts,ihe prize of 40,000 dollars will he the la it drawn
ticket, and the 30,000 the lat but one :
And approved notes, securing payment in either money
or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be received foi
any number not less than 30 tickets.
This Lottery wfll afford an elegant specimen of tke pri
vate buildings to be erected in the City of Wiafhington—-
Two beautiful designs are already feletfled for the entire
i fronts 011 two of thcpublic squares; from these prawings 1
! it ispropofed toered two centre and four corner buildings,
! as soon as pofiible after this lottery is fold, and to convey j
, them, when complete,the fortunate adventurers, in
' the manner dcfcribed in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery.
A nett of five par cent, will be made to defray
the neceiTary expenses of printing, the furplu?
will be made a part of the fund intended for the National '
Univeriity, t© be er£&ed within the city of Washington. !
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are ,
old off.—The money prizes will be payable in thirty days ,
after it is finilhed ; and any prize, for which fortunate j
, numbers are not produced within twelve months after the
drawing is closed, are to be confideredas given towards
the fund for the University ; it being determined to fettle
the whole business in a yoar from the ending of the draw
ing, and to take up the bonds given as fecyrity.
The real securities given for the payjnent of the Prizes, !
are held by the Prcfident and two Directors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are v-lued at more than half the ?
mouat ot the lottery.
The twenty tour gentlemen who by appointment o{
the late CothmiflTioncrs aflifted in the management of the
Hotel Lottery are requeued to undertake this arduous talk
a second time on behalf ©f the public ; a fufficient num
ber of these having kindly accented, it .is hoped that the
friends to a National University and the other federal ob
jc&s may continue to favor the deiign.
By accounts received from the different parts of the
■ Continent as well a 6 from Europe/ where the tickets
have been sent for sale, the public are allured that the
drawing will speedily commen®e,.and that the care and
caution unavoidably necefiary to insure a fafe disposal of
the tickets, has gendered the snort fiifpenGon indispensable.
SAMUEL BLODG£T.
Tiekcts may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; of
James Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter Gilman, Boston 1
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells'
Cooper's Fcrr*y. e«
Bank of North America.
THE STOCKHOLDERS are hereby notified that an
ele&ion for twelve Dire&ors 'qr the ensuing year will be
held at the Bank on Monday the 9th of January at ten
•o'clock.
RICHARD WELLS, Cashier.
Dec. (%. K '
Waihington Canal Lottery,
N°. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorised
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thou.llid,
two hundred, and fifty for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Washington, frow th Po
tomaefco theEaftern Brand* Harbour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz -1 Prize of ao,ooo dollars, 20,000
I ditto 10,000 SO,OOO
T&ltr}
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,000
ao ditto 100 zpoo
55 ditto 50 »,75°
5750 ditto II 69^08
To be raised for th« Canal, 16,250
5850 Prizes, 175^)00
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
P". The Cpmraiffioners hav» taken the Securities »e I
quired by the aforefaid aA for the punctual payment ol
the prizes.
The drawing .f this Lottery will conim.nce, without
delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, /)f which timely
notice will be given.
Such prize, as are not demanded in fix months after the
drawing is finiftied, (hall be considered as relinquished for
the benefit .f the Canal, and appropriated aecordingly.
(SignedJ NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, qf D.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of Feb. 11. ■ f
Paterion Lottery.
FOR railing fix thousand fix hundred and sixty-seven
dollars and fifty cents, by a dedu&ion of fifteen per
cent from the priaes, and not two blanks to a prize, viz
1 Prize of 5000 dollars it dollars 5000
1 1000 1000
L 5 o» 500
5 203 tOCO
20 100 aooo
99 50 495°
I zo» IS 5 00 ®
20CO I® 40,000
5 Lift drawn numbers of toeo dollars each, 5000
»33» Prizes. 44.45°
4018 Blanks.
I ■
! 6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44,45°
By order of the Directors of the Society for eftabliih-
I ing Ufef»l Manufactures, the fuperuitendants of the Pat
| erfon Lottery have requested the Managers to offer the
foregoing Scheme to the public, and have directed thei«
to refund the money to those persons who have purehafed
in the former Lottery, or eichanje the tickets for tickets
ft this Lottery.
The lottery has a&ually commencsd drawing, and will
continue until finilhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
may be seen at the office ot William Blackburn, Ne. 64
fo\ith Second street, who will giveinformation where tick
ets may be procured.
Dated this 17th day of June, 1796.
J. N- CVMMING, ~)
JACOB R. HARDENBERG, > Managers.
JONATHAN RHEA, }
STATE OF THE WHEEL.
i Prize of 5090 ... 5000
z 1000 ... 1000
1 500 ... 500
5 aoo . look
20 ico - - • aooo
00 50 45°0
165 »5 " 4i»5
The five last drawn tickets, io»o e.ch, 5000
Being all the valuable prizes, besides a full propor
tion of the 10 dollars.
As the Lottery is considerably more than one third
drawn, the value of the undrawn tickets is great
ly increafeil, and it is worth; the notice of those
who hold tickets in the old scheme, that they can ex
change t-heir tickets for thole in the above, if they ap
ly soon, and at a moderate advancc oonfiderinjj the
now real value of an undrawn ticket.
The tickets being nearly all fold, the drawing in
future will be ofterter, and the Lottery soon finilhed.
November ia. mws
By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64,
South SecondJlreet.
SCHEME of 7 LOTTERY,
, For raifiag Sixty Thousand Dollars, agrei ably to an Aft of
the Leg' flature of Pcnnfylvasia, p»ff;d during the last
feflion, for building a Stone Bridge over the stiver
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, in the County of
Berks. Dollars.
1 Piiite of 30,000 Dollaos - 20,000
1 do. of 10,000 do. - 10,000
3 do. of 5,000, do. • • 15,000
4 do. of a,OOO do. - - 8,000
20 do. of 1,000 do. ... so,ooo
39 do. of 500 do. . - 19,500
So do. of aoo do. ... 16,000
aoo do. of 100 do. ... 20.00 c
1 300 do. of 50 do. - - 15,000
1 1 do. of 500 do. to be paid the posses- } ■
: for of the firft drawn no.) 3
's do/ »f 3,000 do. to bs paid polTefTors ( DO
of the five last drawn nos J '
, g,t#o do. o 15 do. : - 141,090
10,054 Prizes 300,000
10,046 Blanks
30,000 Tickets st Ttn Dollars goo,ooo
' All Prices ftiall be paid fifteen davs after the drawing is
" finilhed, upon the demand of a podeflor of a fortunate
ticket, fubjeft to a deduction of twenly per cent. The
'■ Drawing will commence as soon as the Tickets arc disposed
" ot, or perhaps sooner. of which public notice will be given.
Philip Miller, Peter Kcrjhner, William IVitman,
s Jofepb Hie/ler, James Diemer, Thomas Dundas,
2 Jamet May, John Otto, John Keim, Danitl CraeJ>
1 Sehajlian Miller, Commissioners.
f Reading, Maythegth, 1795.
Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. a, to be had at the
above office, where the earlisft information of the draw
t ,ing of the Waihington No. a, and Patterfon Lottery's,
;. are received, and alieck books for examination and regif
' terir.g are kept.
October 7. lawtf
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM M'DOOGALL will open his school as Man
day the 3 1 ft inft. at ten o'clock in the morning, at hit
El.egant hew Ball Rooms,
In Fourth, between Chefnut and Walnut Street*.
H»urs of tuition for young ladie6, from 10 to 1 o'clock
on Mondays, Wednesday, and Friday mornings; and foe
young gentl.men from 6 to 9 o'clock on the evening! •
the fame days.
In addition to a number of new cotillions, he means to
introduce • variety of Scotch Reels.
Note. The firft pra<&ifiag ball to be on Tuesday e
vening, the firft of November, and to be continued ever/
Tuesday, during the season.
For terms, &c, enquire at his house, Ne.134, Market,
flreet. / (
oa. 17. tthf
A Manufadtory FOR. SALE.
A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE Mtnufa&ory,
in a convenient part of the city ; the works almost new,
on an entirely original conftru&ion, and built of the best
materials, and may be set to work immediately* Perfont
whowifhto purchase, are requested to apply at No 273,
South Second Street. September 13, t t f rf
Twenty Guineas Reward.
RAN AWAY from the fubferiber An the 23d October,
a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSES ; 21 y®art
old; about 5 feet 8 inches high; had on a mksd greea
coat, with a green velvet cape and oval yellow button?;
a striped vest ; a pair of dark spotted pantaloons, and
whole boots much worn. It is probable he may change
his name and dress. He has been accustomed to driving
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will be
paid for lc curing him so that the fubferiber may get hua
again, and if brought home all reasonable charges paid bf
Robins Chamberlaine.
Eafton, Maryland, 1 Nov. 10. 14 fcjnuawtf
Le Breton,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Dentist to the
King and Royal Family of France, member of the
College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris,
Keeps a complete aflortment of every thing necefiary
to'be used for*!he
Preset vation of the Mouth and Teeth;
Patent Mineral Teeth, and Human & Ivory Teeth ;
Derrtrifice in powder; Opiate; excellent Elixir for
fw«et«ning the mouth and preserving the teeth—he
alio furniihes Brulhes and fort Sponges.
*„* He lives in Chefnut-ftreet, No. 135, above
Fourth-street.
November t6. tts
Samuel Richardet
RESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTB OOFFEE HOUSE in the
city of Philadelphia;
The Subscription Roo|n will be ftirnifhed with all the
daily papers publifted in Philadelphia, New-York, Bo£»
ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principal copn
mereial cities of Europe-—They will be regelarly filed
and none permitted to be taken away on 3ny account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, IceCreams, and a variety
of Frcnch Liquors; together with the usual refreihmeute,
wiH at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated witb
thechuiceftof Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the moil
approved Malt Liquors from London and other breweru*.
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and earjieft
productions of the Season.
Large and small Parties, or single Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with Breekfafts, Dinners, or Suppers,'at
hours molt convenient to themselves—a cold Collation ia
regularly k«pt for conveniency, the Billof Fare to be had
at the bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifted. and
the utmost attention paid to cleanlinef6, and every other
requisite.
Samuel Richardet will be happy to reeeive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledge*
himfelf that nothing on his part fballbe wanting to prc
ferve.that patronage with which he has been so distinguish*
iagly Honored.
Philadelphia, April 19. mwf
Treasury Department,
September 28, 1796.
NOTICE is hereby given, that proposals wHI he re
ceived at the office of the Secretary of the Trcafury
until the expiration of the firft day of March next en*
suing, for the supply of rations which may he required
for ths use of the United States, from the firft day of
June, 1797» to the thirty-firft day of May, 1798, both
days inclufivc, at the places and within the diftri<sts htre
after Mentioned, via. At Ofwego; at Niagara; at
Pjcfque lfte ; at Sandu&y Lake, and on Sanduflcy
River ; at Dc.Voit; at Michiiimackinac; at Fort-Frank
lin; at Pittfhurgh ; at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hamilton j.
at Fort St. Clcir; at Fort-Jefferfon ; at Grenville; at
Picque Town and Loramies Store; at Fort Adams; at
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance; at any place below Fort
Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Eric; at Fort
Steuben ; at FortMaffac ; at any place from Fort Ma£Tac
to the south bo tndary of the United States on the liver
Miffiflppi; at F'ort Knox ; at Ouiatanon.
If supplies (h all be required for any posts or places net
mentioned in tfe s notice, all fiich supplies iha.ll be fur
nifjlied at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
post« before recited, or as maybe hereafter agreed or
between the Unoted States and the Contra&qr.
The rations t» be supplied are to consist of the sol*
lowing articles, viz.
Ope pound t\jro ounces of bread or flour.
One pound t*»vo ounces of beef, er fourteen o«nce» «f
pork or bacon.
Half a gill o.f rum, brandy or
One quart and half a pint of fait."}
Two quarts of Vinegar, ( . ...
Two pounds .f Soap, > per hundred raUW.
One pound of Candles, J
Tke rations aire to be furnilhed in fsch quantities, as that
these lhall at ail timts during the said term, be fufiieient
for the confumptionof the troops at Michiiimackinac, De
troit, Niagara, and Ofwegp, far the term of fix month, m
advance, and at each of the other polls, for the term of
at least three months in advance, in good and wholesome
provisions, if thefamc stall be required. It is to be un
derload, that the Contractor is to be at the expence an<t
rifle of iffuirgtlie supplies to til* troops at each poll, and
that all lofies fu.'tained by the depredations of an enemy, or
by means of the troops of the United States, fttail be pai4
for at the price of the articKs*«aptur«d or destroyed, oa
the depositions of two or mere jferfons of creditable cha
racters, and the certificate of a eommifljoncd ofSccr, as
certaining the circumstances of the loss, and the amount
of the ai tides for which eompenk ition shall be claimed
OLIVER. WQLCOTT,
Seer etary of the Treafur jr.
PRINTED BY JOHN FEN NQ,
—No. 119 —
CH ESNUT-STRItET.
[Price Fight Dollira ptx' Annunvj