/ * ' f f A
■ / ... " .4\ _ ' ,-jt . _ / t j
SLv- •' J f K ' .<»
: ;#.afette of the 6 s Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Nombe* ijiP 1 THURSO AT EVENING, AUGUST 4, 1796. * . X.
■ — ■ . _ « -r r\ s • 1 rT-1 "V
For HAMBURGH,
, - THE SHIP
jo H N,
Rob*rt J*CK«ow. Matter, J» !
!"• To f* i fifcorfe 'ay.'. •
HAVING ".wo-thini* ni h » e rp> «-
gapcd nd reaiy to go on boarJ. F >.* fr i;'t or pl'Tsgt
apply to the matter on board at Wslk% w ri, or to
John Donna'dfon,. £
No. 14 Walnut-.'* iff. M(
I J- J y *»• * scots >c
Brig LUCY at Auction* ■
ON Friday ne*t, the sth instant. at the Merchants' j
Coffce-Houfe, in S-cond flrett, '
IVill be fold by AuS'nn, j
At 8 o'clock in the evening,
THE BRIG
\ S:out, strong veiTel, wi!l carry
about 1200 barrels, and may go ,
9atxjiitr^ssi iQ fta wit jj a ver y fHiali expense. ]
Footman & Co. Auctioneers. J
—
For Freight, t*
BtNJAMIN GLASIER, M*jlc,
FROM Liverpool. New discharging at P. Care's wharf, Sol
and will immediately afterwards take in T'ttjghi for * a '
NHWBURY-PORT and BOSTON.
To fail in all next week. ( For freight or paflage, apply to
capt. Glafier, onboard, or to _ o>t:0 > t :
Isaac Harvey, jun. 01
S *?» 5 South Water'Jfceet. ™
7 mo. *7
For Sale, Freight, or Chartej, A ' ] \
The Schooner
SBl angelica,
ujgfiS®>£ hundred and twenty tons burth:n— * h
\ J fix months old, a (launch, faithfilly
•built, fact-failing velfel, handsomely finifhed off, and well
found in eve™ particular. For terms apply to ZJ
J r B. RHODES, -<■
On said fchooncr, lying at Bickley and Bohlen s
wkarf, the "firft above Market street. A
WHBRE THERE ARE FOR SALE,
A feid half-bbls. Prims Mess Beef.
July 34 :
For Sale,
Or for Charter tothe Wefl-lndies,
C E K. d s,
K~. Philadelphia Built,
OF Live Oak and Red burthen about JSOO bar- j
rels, now discharging at Latimer's wharf. This v. f-
fel is in excellent repair well fouud-and will beer a tho
rough examination, and as soon as discharged will be tea-
<tf to tiKe In % eaigc. Tor terms appl- to
John Vaughan.
Tuly »8 § es
- J - ; ■ — f e |
For Sale or Charter, at
v TH E SNo W
BOSTON,
bTIRTHENaboot 2000 Bbls. of flour—(lie may be sent. P
to sea At a fmajl eipeuce, her fails and rigging being in
Hexy good order—apply to
James Campbell, ar
Gesrge Latimer.
1 April 19, § th
This Day commenced Lanjding,
At ifflin, wharf, the cargo of the Brig Lucy and Sloop QB
St. Jago, from St. Jag&deCuba—confining of ; n
White and Brown Box SUGAR. .
MOLASSES, excellent quality. G
COFFEE. t ],
HIDES and HONEY. Also, te
For Sale or Charter.
A ft but, strong veflcl, will carry a- fa
bout 1100 barrel*, and may go to j,
lea with a very small exptnie. -j-
Ffte above wili be fold for cath or approved notes. „l
Samuel Emery, th
No 64, fouthSecond-ftreet-
July 79 6 - dtf-
Just Arrived, te
!p 'be Ihip Molly, John F-oft, Rider, from Uverpoel, jI.
5000 Bushels Best fine llovedSALT, §;
Coo'BulheU HOUSE CO-^L,
And j,B Crates of QUEENS WARE afforta'„,
FOR SALE BY
Philip Nicklin & Co.
, . B. THE S.t ID
" Ship MOLLY, 1
ys for SALE or CHARTER, she is $ '
1 years old, Philadelphia built, of white -j
ojUj was well faked and carries about 4100 barrels of Floor. J
Foe tei;ms apply a| above. w
_ _- dit -- |
Landing
From on boatii the Nancy, WOliam Belcher, maF
tet, from Bourileaux, a cargo, of—
360 Hhdt. CHQ.ICE CLARE 1,
Cases of 24 bottles each CL.A RET, I
286 <30. of 2* do. WHITE WINE,
BRAMjY, SWEET OIL, and
1 TRUNX of KT boons,
Fcj Sale b>
F.
Valy 23- * " d'fi j
" Take Notice, <
r-piH 'T the Subscriber intends to mue 1
I tiv, for the renewal of a Certificate. No. ifiy, a
for 4GOP\>SaSL dated the 14th December, 1795> ear '"?'
intereO. at., V «r cent, from ift January, 179.6. '£e |
rarr.e of £jv ? idDunderdale & Co. of Leeds, .nV.it
fmrc, merch.,;j. I'he lame is fuppoCed to have been loft
onitswpy York, under cover -o BUecker &.
Mircfc, <4 tliat iacc, oa the 6th of January last
Thomas M'Euen.
»sd June, nyS- 5 6w .
Tfr*feinMßi, -«!■-> in i njrtnhi'f 9HHH—Via
C A B L £ S,
From 16 to 9 V inches for file by ,
Jeremiah Warder,
. u iy lt { ~ No ii northThird-flreet.
WrnT-HOLD ERN KSSIi,
No. 76 Street,
HAB receive J, by the lat'- ar'ivals from Europe ar.d
the East Indies, a Well, f»le<slcd alTortment of Silk
Mercavy, Linen Drapery ao.l Hahtrdaffierj Goods; which
Jic wiii ieii, W.io. falcaud w./il, u.i theieweft terttt ;
-AM'.l-ICSr IHICi! ABZ,
Son* fine India muflbis embroidered with gold and IHver —
Superfine feocik, Jaconet, aadMulmul ditto
jjo do do do Handktfrchiefs j n
Some extra black taffeties,lut«flringsafad colored Persians
Bandano Handkerchiefs
Long aud short Nankeens
Englilh Mantuas of the firft quality
Damalk table linen and napkins, very fine
Silk Hosiery, an elegant affortmsnt fy
Thead and cotton do
Umbrellas —green silk, oil'd do. and do cloth
French cambrics, very fine
Irilh' Linens do. &c. &c. June 14 $
~ THE SALE OF
TheTOWN, and OUT LOTS of the TOWNS
of ERIE, WATERFORD, FRANKLIN
and WARREN. 't
ADVERTISED for sale by the State Agents, in the Phila- 1
delphia Gazette and Universal Daily Advertiser, to be 0 f
Sold in the City of Pniladelphia ; wiilc«»mmcnce at Ciiy an(
'favern or Coffce-Houfe in S<rcoud-l>t/eet, in the said city, on p U
Mocdiy the 25th day of July inft. at 7 o'clock in the even
ing, and beconticucd by adjournment from day today, tron>,
12 o'clock at <»oon, until two o'clock, aud from 7 urnil 9 ou ,
o'tfock in the evening, uptil the whole of the said LOTS and jig.
OUT LOI Sare disposed of. The conditions of fade will be p 0
made koo*vn, and the plams of the said LOT 3 and OCT
-LQ.IS be ft»ewu at the time and place of sale.
_
July tl.
Sa es of India Goods.
The Cargo of the (hip G .nges, capt. Tingey, from Cal
cutta and Bengal,
CONSISTING OF
A Large and general afTortment of Bengal and Madras
COrrON and SILK.GOODS.
j AMONG WHICH ARE
A variety fine worked and plain Muslins,
Doreas, &c. Also,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar, F _
In boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPEH,
For Sale by
Willings Sff Francis,
No. 2; Pcnn Street. (
June 8
Public Notice is given, c,
the merchants and others concerned in the (hipping be
1 at State-Ifl/nd, under quarantine, that a Cart -.vill fc'
attend every mo.ning, sundays excepted, from nine to
ten o'cl«ck, at the Health office, No. jl Walnut-ftrect, to
convey provisions or other Refrefhments to the Hoipital, Ju
and for the use of the crews. £t
It isexpefled that the Bags, Balkets, or other packag- | c
es with supplies, , will be directed with th« name of the vef- j;,
fel and captain they are intended for, to prevent miilak.es q,
at deliyery. N at
By order of the Board of Heahh for the port of Phila- fvi
idelphla. LEVI HOLLINGSWORTH, Chairman.
I July n §
t .Philadelphia, Weft-Cbefter, Strafburgb,
Lancaster, Tork and Frederick-town _
STAGES.
proprietors of the above Stages, return their best
X thanks to their friends and the public in general, for
the encouragement received in this line of business, and beg
le.tve to inform the public, that they are determined to run L
their stages through from Philadelphia to Lancaster in
P one day, commencing on Tuesday, the 14th July inilant,
in the following manner, —viz. A Stage will set out ou
that day at 4 o'clock in the morning, from the house ot
George Weed, Market-flreet, Philadelphia, and run by
the way of Weftcnefter and Strafburgh, arrive in Lancas
ter the fame evening, on Friday morning run to Wright's
ferry and exchange paflcngers with the York and Fredtj
ick-town fl age, return and arrive in Philadelphia on Sat* ■
: urday, and on Monday morning following, at 4 o'clock, "
l " said stage will set out from the said George Weed'*, Phila- v
0 delphia, and arrive at Lancaster the fame evening, on
Tuefclay morning at 4 o'clack will set out from the house —
of Mrs. Cdwards, Lancaster, and arrive in Philadelphia tl
the fame evening, and will continence again on Thursday .
morning following, and continue every week—-The price -
for eacK from Philadelphia to Lancaster is three
- dollars and a half, to York, four dollars and three quar
ter*; to Frederick town eight dollars, the like sums for j
; 130 weight baggage, with the usual allowance of 14 lb. a
* 1 gratis to each pafTenger, and 5 pence a mile for all way
' paiTengers. 3°~§4W f
John Reilly, 1
George Weed.
E L E P H ANT.
| This Animal is ti be seen in High.Street, between .
5 ' the Tenth and the Eleventh-Street.
te TIE will positively leave Philadelphia the tenthof Sep
ir' Li. tembcr.for Baltimore, in his way to Charleston, t
| where he will win'er, t
_ ADMI sTANCE Half a Dollar—quarter of a Dollar f
! for Children ;
r The PANORAMA, or the VIEW of the CITIES of }
'■ LONDON and WESTMINSTER, \
Ir. to be open till the loth of September, and the fub
jecl will then be removed to Baltimore with the ELE
PHANT.
ADMITTANCE for the PANORAMA,.
One quarter of a Dollar.
August 3. 1
A well-finifhed- commodious
H O U S- E
1 For Sals, and immediate poffcjfion given,
SITUATE on the north tide of Spruce ftrcet, No. 111;
between Fourth and Fifth streets. The house, piazza
■>, 1 and back buildings are three stories in hpight, andpeifeclp
well adapted for the accommodation of a large family,
the ~jhey contain twelve good rooms, exclusive of two ciol
k- e S"- ts. In the yard, which is neatly paved, there are
left two ; one in a rain cistern, the other of as good
6 £* ter as a 'vn the city : The.cellars are dry and 1 irge.
1C e^ mS ° b 'ment will be easy : a great part of the
pur *a c^ n j ° probability may lay for years on iri
tere . pp y a . deor eastward.
J ul r 3° si-.v
Just Arrived
In the' brig Betsey, from Jeremie, and for sale by j
the fubfc«i >ers. {j; u:
Forty thousand wt. of very prime Coffee
in hogiheid- ana bag-,
And, in the schooner Hope, from New Orleans.
BEEF J
COTTON
HIDES and
• LOGWOOD.
A lihjral credit will be jjiven for Approved Notes. .
and James Potter. n
July 27. - dtf
i—l ; —: — nov
Just Arrived, r
In the Snow Boften, Jafnes Kirkpatrick, master from Li
verpool,
$000 Bnlhtli SALT ;
jco Crltes QUEENS WARE; and
of SHIP CHANDLERY ; UN
FORSALE j;
Oa board, at Pi«e-ftreet wharf. Apply to
James Campbell, or
George Latimer. \
April 29. §
DUTY ON CARRIAGES. '
Notice is hereby Given, ih * e
TH \T agreeably to an aft of Congre's of the United
Statesof America, patted at Philadelphia, the aßth day j
of May, 1796 ; laying duties on Carriigel, for lie convey
ance of per lons, and the former a&s for that pur- _
pose there (hallbe levied, coileftcd And paid, upon
all carriages f<>r the conveyance of persons, which lhall be P ur
kept by or for any jSerfon, for his or her own use, or to let
out to hire, ortor the conveying of passengers, the several du
ties and rates following, to wit.
For and upou every Coacl), dob. •
spoil every Chariot, 12 dols. °ij
'Mr 1 __ _ An
iJotTevery Phieion, witb or w'ubouL u'p, y
lipcu every Goachee, 9 dols. t
uyon other Carriages, having panne 1 work above t
w'uh blinds, glalTcs or curtains, 9 dols, <
upoi four wheel carriages, having framed posts and r€
toiiVvrithfteel fpiings, 6 dols. .
unori four wheel top Carriages, with wooden or iron
fpriugs or jacks, 3 dols. t
upon curricle* with tops, 3 aolj. c - f
upon chaiies with tops, 3 dols. en
upon chairs with tops, 3 dols. * an<
uf«n sulkies with tops, 3 dols.
upon other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols. '
upon two wheel carnage*, with steel or iron springs,
3 dok « 4 , n
For and upon all other two wheel carnages, a dols. 10
upon every four wheel carriage, having IrJmed poits r;z
and tops, and reitiug upon w.ooderl rpars, 2 dols. tht
The C of the Revtnur of the firft furvev the
Diftt of Pcnnfylvania, will attend daily, until the 30th day ce |
of September next, sot the purpole of receiving duties on
Carnages, at No. 117, in Race or SaJLfrao ftrect, in ihe Citv u _
of Philadelphia, at the house of Daniel S. Clair, t q ,n J. l'ai
Countv ot Montgomery ; and at the house of Abraham Du-
bo is, El'q. in the County of Rucks; of which all persons pol ,
felL-d oi such Carriages arc defued totakenotiee. j far
Not'ce is also given, jwi
TO all retail d«lei» in Wine#, and foreign uiflilled fpiri- the
tuous liquors, that iicencej will be granted to them ; one 11 tn
ctu% sac marrying on ths bufinelVof retailing ot Wines, in a c la
le s quantity, or in !efs Quantities than 30 gallons—and one :
liwencc ftK carryir'; on the business of ictailing Spirituous 11-
i qaori in ieff quantities than 20 galkir»s,at the tame time a.i
at the lame places, by; the officers iegally authoiized to grant s
(v»ch iicenccs.
WILLI AM NICHOLS,
Infpeftor of the Revenue of the full survey
of the di.aitlof Pennf)lvania.
Officcof Infpeflioiiiat ) * 3°
Philadelphia, 21ft July, 1796. {
j? NOT I C E.
There will, be fold on Thursday the 4th of Anguft, at pr
the Merchants' coffee house, in Second fti eet, re
One thousand fhafeff of the stock of
the North America Land Company. &
If not previously disposed of.
Philadelphia, jj«th July. ts . 0
TAKE ) 1 b<
THAT application will be made for the renewal of "
the following certificates, iffuetl by Joseph Nourfe,
Regiiler of the Treasury, in the name of Roger Grif
wold, Esq. of Norwich, Conneflicut —
1 certificate, fix percent domestic stock, No. 13,907
—dated the 17thDecember, 1795, bearing interell from
the suit day of January, 1791* for 1,597 6s-ioo dol
-1 ditto, thre? per cent, domestic stock, No. 10,682
—dated December 16, 1795, bearing interest from the
firft day of January, ijgJ, for 994 30-100 dollars.
i dittO| deferred stock, No. 9,166 dated the 17th
December, 1795, bearing intercll from the firft Janu
ary, 1801, for 798 Bj-i©o dollars.
Said certificates are ftippofed to have been loft or 4#
llo!en in this city some time in December or Janua y
last.
JOSEPH THOMAS, t>
No. 59, North Front-street. a
Philadelphia, JOly al/1796- * • d6w. ti
> A Country Seat to be fold
ABOUT seven acres and a half of land near die three
mile Hone fin the road leading to Gray's gardens and
, extending declivity said road to the
river Schuylkill—on which are cre&ed, a convenient
r frame house fuitablc for a tenant, a frame ham and Hahle,
a large Brick House forty-eight feet front, two (lories
f high, a very elegant piazza fronting the river, the whole
bitadth of the liouff supported with turned pillars, floor
- ed with cedar plank, commanding an extensive and pic
turesque yiew of the Xlidille Bridge, Gray s Gardens, the
Seat of Wm. Hamilton, Esq. the Turnpike Road and
Canal. The improvements are all new—and the ground
conveniently divided and inclosed by new ccdar fences.
For terms apply at No. 151 Marke*-ftr 1 9et.
, *7 * ?t ,
FOR SALE,
WINE, London particular Madeira, 4 years old,
' in pipes and hogsheads
Claret, genuine old, in cases
Gin, in pipes, from Holland
Earthen Ware, in crates
J_' Rafk-Jt Silt, in hogflieads
c Shot, Noe. 6, 7, I and 9
Bar Lead, Red and whitejlry lead
0 Steel, German and Roffia, in barrels
i e Anchors, cables, junk, bunting* tarpolin canvas,
1- Tin plates—An invoice Stationary, by
THOMAS & JOHN KETLAND.
July -J
• To be Let,
A large convenient tbrc» {lory Brick House, plCifcntly
situated, on tlie vreft fide of Second-Street, oppoGtc to the
New-Market; now ifl ;he occupation of Henry
Apply to
William Bingham.
Ju'.y 17. Gt.
For Sale,
A Three flory BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnot
ftrect, between Front md Second (Wacts, in which
SrCv. I —rr ft r irnri)
now do) carried on lnjfinpis.
PoiCiiSoa wiil iie given in one month, or fonijer.
For termi appi) to 1 WILLIAM BELL, cr'
HECTOR CAX.BKAITH.
April 11. §
UNITED STATES, ") n*
Pennsylvania District, j
IN THE NAME AND BY THE AUTHORITY
op the united stales,
By WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Marlhal of the Pennsylvania Diftridf^-
A.PROCLAMATION.
WHEREAS the Congrcfs of the United States, at
the fu-ft lefjion of the fourtltCongrcfs. to wit, on
ihe twelfth day of May lift palt, palTcd an ail, to repeal
1 so much of an act, intituled "an ad to eftabhih th*
Judicial Courts of the United States", as dir*d» that the
alternate ftflions of the Circuit Conrt for the Diftrid ctf
( Pennsylvania, ftiaUhe holdtn at Yorktown ; and for, other
purpoies, in »he follow ing words, to wit.
t Fourth Cpngrefs of" the United States :
At the firlt feffioii, begun and held at the city of Phila
delphia, in the State of Ptnufylvaaia. on Monday, thS
fevenih of December, one thousand feren hundred and
nine y-five.
An Acl to repeal foaiucb of an aft, intituled " an ail to
recu ifi
the diUriA of ■Pnmfylmnia fliall be hoMen at York
town; and for other purports.
Se<9. I. BE it traded by the Senate and House of Re
presentatives of the United States of America, in Con
gress assembled, That to much ol th* fifth fedion of the
n ail, intitu'ed "an ail to eflaMifix the judicial couTts of
the United States", asdired* that alternate sessions of the
circuit court Cor the dfftrid of Pennsylvania lhall be hold
en at Yorktown, be, and the fame is hereby repeated;
and that all the fefliensot the said circuit court lhall, from
and after the passing of this a<sl, be holiew at the city of
s, Philadelphia, excepting only, when at any feflion of the
laid court, the judges thereof fliall dired the next feffioii
to be holden at Yorktown , which they are hereby autho-
Is rized and empowered to do, whenever it lhall appear to
>• them to be neceflary.
IC Sed. 11. And be it further enafled, That all such pro
> ccfs of the said court, as may have iffiied before the pass
" ;ng of this ad, and ai| recognizances returnable, and all
v futs and other proceedings that were continued to the
e laid circuit court for the diffxid of Pennsylvania, or the
■ eleventh of Odober next, in Yorktown, fc;.ll now be re
; turned, and held coiltinucd, to the fame court, on thS
[fame day, at Philadelphia. Ani to the end that fiiitors,
j witiyiffes, and all others concerned, may have notice o?
i- the alteration hereby made, the Marlhal of the said dif
i trjd is hereby required teniake the fame known, by pro.
> carnation, an or before the firft day of Augaft next,
'<■ 1 Jonathan Dayton,
}-• Speaker of the House of R eprcfentatives,
d Samuel Livermosh,
lU President of the Senate, pro tempore.
Approved, May the twelfth, 17>6,
Gboro; Washington,
President of the United States.
Deposited among the Rolls, in the Office of the Depart
ment of State,
Timothy Picxering,
Secretary ot State.
1 DO HEREBY MAKE KNOWN that all such
at process of the said court as has, or may be iflucd, and all
rev V;nizancos returnable ai YurkUwn aforefaid, on the ele
.f vetilb Jay of Oliver next, will be returned to the Circuit of
1 the United States, attheCity Hall, in the city of Fhila-
r t delphia, on'l'nefday, the eleventh day of Odober nc*t. at
eleven o'clock in the forenoon, And that all fuitsand other
proceedings that w re c jntinued to the fajd court at York
town, will be held and continued at the said Circuit
— Court, at Philadelphia, onthefame Blei-mtb day of Odo
;'ber next, of-which all persons concerned a;e dt-fired to
Q f take notice, and give their attendance thereat.
fe> GIVJiN under my hand, at my oftico, ih the Diftrid
rif of Pannfylvania, the twenty-lev ntii day of July,
in the year of our Lord one thousand leven hun- ~
37 ■. dred and ninety-fix, and of our Independence tbo
m twepty-firft.
>1- WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Marjhal.
e July »7 §iw
th — 1 ■- . —
Waftiington Canal Lottery,
or.. NO. r.
y "t T rHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorifeJ
VV the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through th City of Washington, from the Pj;
tomac to the Eastern Branch Haruour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
1 Viz -I Prize of 10,000 dollars, 10,000
ree " r ditto 10,000 10,000
~j 7 lad drawn 7
£ Tickets, each j *'°°° 35,000
» nt 6 ditto 1,000 6,000
,j e> 10 ditto 400 4,000
■j e s i »o ditto 100 1,000
ole SS ditto SO 1.7J0
or- 575° ditto 12 69,008
,; c . To be raised for the Canal, 16,250
the - ~ —— "
ind 5850 Pnz«s, • 175 poo
Hu ( 1 i6jo Blanks, not two to a prize,!
17500 Tickets, atTen Dollars,N - 175,000
t gj" The Commissioners have taken the Securities re
— quired by the aforefaid ad for the pundual payment of
the prizes.
The drawing ef this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after tlx
drawing is finifhed, drill be consider. d as relinquished for
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
( Signedj NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANJEL CARROLL, o/D.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
vas, Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
X JAMES- BARRY.
$ City of Washington, Feb. 11, $
mForeign Intelligence.
1 I—ll
Trail flat ed from Hamburgh Papers,
for the Gazette^/the United States.
From ITALY, May 3.
The Emigrant Corps in the Eriglifh pay ate ar
rived at Corlica, and were immediately sent to
Ajaccio. 1 «
The University at Padua is vacated, not for fear
of the enemy, but because the Students began as
sembling in Jacobin Clubs.
At Bologna, in the Papal territory, the procefi
i» finilhed, carried on'for a years time againlk leve '
lal persons accused of jacobinism and eonfpiration (
with the French. The leader of them a c*rt3in
Rolandi, a Student at Viola is to be hanged, 3
Doctors in the law to be punished with the galleys,
some young, men with the pillory, arid two women
Who favoured the Affeti.blages are condemned to
prison for life. A young Bolognefe, a chief in- (
ftrumerit, of the confpiration, was out of regard
• for his family, strangled in prison.
The reform proje&ed for the Jewilh na'ion in
Italy were dually reje&ed, tho' the young people
and the female sex especially, endeavoured to catry
it. After long deliberations, the Elders and Rab
bies tho't proper to dismiss the Synod, without
adopting the innovations nroptifed.
VIENNA, May n.
Besides the i iuujjs lent already to the Army in
Italy, 25 thouiand men are lately ordered to pro
cecd thither with' the uimoft speed. Meafuresare
takefl along the route to fialy, to carry the Infan
try by waggons, so that they can be at their place
of dellination within 16 days. Artillerifls and Pi
oneers are gone.by poll for Italy.
The adlivity in the War Department, and Ar
fcnals cannot be difcribed, ten squadrons of Gy
artoiiufky marebed from-this to'day, arid every day
- - rray;oorf r one <$tyl *thei> they are tranf*
ported in the manner above defcHbed.
Gen. A r gente»u is under arrtjll, but it belie
ved he will clear himfelf fufficiently, as the fault
committed originated in a wrong dated order.
FRANKFORT, May t 4 .
On the loth, Count Cullorcdo arrived from Vi
enn.i, at the head-quarters in Mentz, when the
Troops were ixllantly ordered to quit their canton
ments, the Chancery.ot War to pack up their pa
pers. *
' "Yesterday the Troops flationed at Altzey, ad
vanredto Lamereck, arid the Ssxons are to been
camped in the environs of Creutznach. 011 she
Hundfruck, the rosds cannot be used yet, for the
traßfport of the Artillery. Both Imperial armies
•re now in motion, fuperfluous waggons and bag
gage, as also he women are sent backwards. The
contingent of the Duke of Saxe Weymar is ap
proaching, the principal hospital of the arm/ is ef
tablifhed at Butssbac in the Vetteraw.
To day the Imperial gartifon, confiding 0 f
three battalliens of Grenadiers marched out, atten
ded by our bell wishes.
The Infantry battalion'of Schroeder, who were
made prisoners a. Qaefnoy, is togarrifon this place
during the Campaign.
We are informed that the Imperial Rcferve-
Co'rps of artillery, are marching foi the upperand
lower Rhine. The regiments, Roya{ Allemand,
Latour, and Albert, Carbiniers, as also the .cavalry
ot Gen. Wurmfer are in full march. In order to
accelerate the communication of the Corps, com
maijdid by the Piince of Wurtemberg, ftationei,n
and tfte Wefterwald, a bridge was
built at Bingen, arid all the Pontoons belonging to
the army are forwarded. The whole force of the
Archduke Charles, as well as that of Fieidmarfhal
Wurmfer fetms to be directed to Treves, while the
forces on the lower Rhine are to aft'on the defen
five only. . The French are considerably reinforced
at the Hundfi nck. By this Courier I can inform
you, that the t-uce was to day formally difconti
rued hy the Auftrians.
A Great variety ofelegant Globe and Vase
LAMPS. • 1
FOR halls and entries, of the glass, with
pullies,-balance weights, and eveiy neceflir-y appen
dage, of sizes fuitabie to accommodate buildings of all
di mentions.
Also, an a/Tortment of Lamps, adapted for theufe
of pVrlonrs, chambers, counting houses, with paten;
burners, wick, glades, &c.
Imported, anil For Sale by
W.POYNTEI L,
No. 70, Chefnut, between Second and Third Streets.
Also, ahandfome aflortmcntof mahogany knife ca
ses for fide boards.
August 4. fmw3t.
Trea ury Department, Augujl 3, 1796.
Public Notice is hereby Given,
IN purfuunce an ait of Conerefs, passed on tke 18th
day of May, 1796, entitled " A» aS providing" for
the fajfl of the lands of the United- lUtej, in the Territo
ry north weft of the river Ohio, and above the mouth of
Kentucky river," that the ftdionsor lots of land descri
bed in the annexed schedule, lying in the seven ravages of
townships, which were furvcyed in furfiiance of an ordi
nance of Congrcf*, passed on the twentieth day of May,
in the year one thousand fc.ven hundred and eighty-five,
wjll be exposed fotfjle at Pubjit vendue, m the town ol
Pi'.tfhurgh in D ijnnfylvjHiia, r>n the twenty-fourth day of
Oiftobernext, and thenceforward, from day to day until
the firfl day of December enfuing.unlefsthe said lots shall
fee sooner fold, in the manner, and on the terras and con
ditioos herein after mentymed, to wit:
jfl. 1 h' said fectior.s or lots fnall he fold under the di
reSion ef the Governor or Secretary of the Western Ter
ritory, and fach person as the President of iht United
States mayfpecially appoint for that purpodv
2d. The fuid fefl-ions orlots thai! be fyid to the highest
bidder,but no sale can be mad,-, for less (han two dollars
jer acre of ths quantity of land in such lot or
fedion.
J- Yhe highest bidder as before mentioned, uruft depc- .
fit at the time of file, of the purc'>afe
money, in the hands of such person as the President of the
Upited States (hall appoint to attend the sales for that pur
which wnl b«forfeited,if a moiety of thefumbid,!
including the said twentieth part, fljallnot benaidwiUiin
thirty days from the time of fdle.
X 4th. Upon payment ®fa moiety of t'<« ptirehafc money
in the manner before mentioned, the parchafei wile
entitled to one year's credit for the remaining moiety ,
lhall receive from the Governor or Secretary of the
Weftern-Trrritory, ana the person who lhall be appointed
by of the United States, to dire ft the faks, a
certificate describing th« lot or f tflion purehaied, aud de
dal ingthefum paidcnaccour.t, the balance remaining due,
the time when such balance becomes payable, and that
the whole land therein mentioned, will be forfeited, if the
* r ' said balance is not then paid ; but if the. said balance Ina
to be duly,difcharged,by paying the fame to the Treasurer of
the Un:-ed States, the purchaser or his aflignce or other
ar legal rcprefentative, fcall be entitled to a patent for the
r said lanils, »n his producing to the Secretary of State a re
ceipt for such balance endorsed upon the certificate. But
if any purckafcr fliall make payment of the whole of the
purchase money, at the time when N the payment of the
•f$ firft moiety is dire&ed to btmadr, he will be entitled to a
c dedudion of ten per centum on the part for which a cre
dit is authoriz»d to be given ; and his patent fliall be Im
-1" mediately iflued. , . ,
m Given under my hand at Philadelphia, the day and
? year abovt mentioned.
s OLIVER WOLCOT,
Secretary «f the Treasury
"* Schedule cf feSionr of townfhipi, or fruHlnnal parti
ef town/hips, to be fold at Pittjburgh, inpurfuanS
in of the 6th ftd'ton of an aft »f Congress, ptjfed tn
' e the 18th day of May, 1796.
I- S Til - ? ' T~~. J
® I 1 \ °. z " < 2
O~i o "
Z ft
itt Rangf. 6:h rownlhip ] 6th RanGK.
ift Township. J?ai2 640 eich iftTownlhip.
a 8 /65 1 14 =40 17 |i 10
re 29 is( <j5 \ 17310640 each j8
u- 30 15c 75 I 15336 640 each ii BS O
:e 34 14c 90 ijthTownlhip 42 '66 40
'i- 35 64c each 3114 64° each 2J -I^7
2d Township t7aio 640 each «4 '4°
r _ 19 s | 40 j 13 1640 27' 'SI
20 170 70 25330 64oeach ißaj< ach
T ' 21 lis' .U a 3 6 640|each <8|
P «6a27 64©each 5314 640 each 1 lib
2? 56o | j 17a20 640 eaci; 2 440
p. • sJi:6o J«a36j64c|each 3 (^4B
| t JO 564' I 12th Township 4 456
31-3S 64p.eaclv; iai4 64 leach 5 ' 464
-4thTownfhip. 17320 64c!cach 4 472
19 i 64: i3 a 36|<>4i'lcacl! 7 340
i HW, 4th Range.
26 387.60 lftT . lwnmf r 'aiM64°je»ch
e 7 , 26 : 2d J -s a 36)64°each
la 3 ~ * 3d Township. \
« 6i6 i ? 0 1 470
34 445,20 ■ , a 1478
11 140 eacl 3 485
rthTn n, adTownfhip 4 494
ithTownlh p # ?6r 6 P j 502,
e 6 139 20 6 , , 6 510
e ** 479 30- V ' ' 7a 14 640 each
s 17 304 «5 g 1732064 each
18 638 co * ac 13336 640 each
*3 450 75 s»h fownfhip.
e 24 640 *' I 18
« lit
3 ° Jj®. „ «a. ,400 c > W
A 111 3dlown!hip. 4 5 *~ q
f 6 4° 1a,4,6 4 0,e«l I
ad Rangc. I7aact , )4:ieacl „ - s - . .
iftTownfhip 2343'Jj40 eacl 7 al 4»4<' act
s 48 | 7! 20 sthTown(hip '""^ 4 fftC . h
34 650 iai 4 |64o(ead . 6 4cle ; ie h
3d Township. r 7 a20|640 e,t ' thTo «'« , W 1 -
24a26 64c rati 23336 640 ejcl 1 6
' 28 .9c. 16 7'hTownfhip 1 40
a 9 64c ia» 640 earl 3 !7 °
< 3 T a33 64. iach S*7 64oeael 4 .5 60
4thTownihip 11313 64oeac
, 11 2? 40 18319 64b ,
12 .97 ? 0 25 6 4 0 ; eac u
13 51 -O ;0>36 64oeael I , ty"
ij 47 10 9thTownflrp "-' a K 3 £. 64 •;'«
16 2!9 zo 1314 J "Township. ;
17 -Z4 17320 64-ea; ai4 64o.each
: 18 4 23336 64c)eaei yil °
I 19 < HthTownfh j 3 .V-r^ o ,f Ch
20 8, 80 ia. 4 !640eael '"h I ownfhip
21 3 '■ 21 17.1 ao 640 eaci I e3C b
. ;4ceasi 13336 640eac I ''° cic "
sthTownfhip. 13-hrownfhif z | .40 each
5 6. 1 ar 4 6 4 0 ea. 'y 1 * l -wnftip.
6a7 64 :acl l7aio|64rea I 11, 'J64' - jeach
*332j 64 -acf. 23836,640 ;aci 7 41 ' <>40|each I
27az8 64 ach ,„ = (
-ach t s l~ Un ° E '5t i Jo-.vnfl,ij,.
7thTown(h; P lal4;6 4 o|c iU ;h, ;
3 ' '64.-1 40 i7aio]64afe»A'
1 BihTo* n(h'p Iz jß' •''* 336 640; each
*35 640 eacl W -5° 7 ,th Range.
' 440 iftTownfhip.
7a 14 640 eac 1 7 w | <u 0 t
i 7 a2oj64c eacl- J ac 36 1132 50 >
■ ffizk ;
I 64c tacl 640 each '
I3au 4 " ach ,d 1 10313-640 eadh 1
19a!-; 4c each 14 3c I
2333. 14c each 3 43 ° 17312 64c each '
3d Rang 1 -'. I 5 456 '4 v
id Township. | 6 464 80 20 t
15 I 7 250 V aj 4 6jo each a
16 600 8 618 38c
20 557 50 9ai4 640eacl 1- 37 640 eu-h
113*2 440 each 1712064 c eacl 4th
-23 6ou 3 J 3'» 64oeae. lai ' "4oeach e
*5336 6 4 oeach ith'l ownfhip. ' ) 4oeach c
3dTownfhip. lai4|64oeacl 4c le a ch v
9 188 60 17a20 6 4 oeacl 6th I ownlhip. f
10 344 I J33361640eacl lal 4|o4< ;a*h (i
II 267 I 6thTownhip »7 a2 q»4.L-ach
Tl 152 ila 14 64o|faci d '
14 20/ 50 I r 7 32c!640 eacl. " w "
T5 63c j ac) lai each .
I6aiß 64c each , BthTownfhip I7il '^ 4 each
19 L* 1 " 50 1 i •it4|64o|eaih 13 40 esch f
20 6i 75 17320(64. ach 10th 1 ownfhip, fc
*la3-> 64c .ach 3 31 1 64 -1 ach 1 a1 4[64c each
4th Township. 1 tothTownihip '' a20 .64c each
1 170 1 a 1416401 ach 1 3 3 3016 4 ach
2 544 j 17aic 40J ach I3th '"wi Ihip.
3 320 13a 61.', id act. I a 14 64* *ch 1
4 450 '■ 2tllTnw'Vhip. '7 a 2c 14c -ach h
5 1201 i Hi4|s4C|each 4C - >ach t
6 640 r 7 a*c 'ucl .ich! K'nTfJwnlhip. (
7 563' ' *333' |''4o'e3ch' lai 4 6 4 o r each
539 6 4 oe*ch 1 ti'l ownfhip J '' 32 ° °40 each
ic 540 80 I jaT4|</,o{each r 3;l3 r, 6 4C ach f
11 529 70 (732: 140 each lO 'iifhp.
T*ai4 640eich 23a36Ji 4 01e4ch ia, 4|'»4oleach- r
I y\ic 640 each j 1 ' a 2" h
23336 640Mch- | -3aj6,64010th t
>e cSxTINUATtOK G F .
Latest Foreign Intelligence.
:d Received by the Arrivals at New-York,
i 3
Irom the Londtn Gazette, May 21.
is Extract of a letter from Adam Duncan, Esq. ad
1' miral of the Blue, and commander in chief ofhis
M.ijefly'j (hips and vcffels in the north seas, to
Mr. Nepeao, secretary to admiralty, dated
e . Venerable, at sea, May i(?, 1796 —afternoon,
it Texel, S. E. by Z- didant 15 leagues.
Be pie a fed to acqjamt the Lords Cotnmiffioners
ie of the admiralty, that, on the izthinft. at day light
(the Texel then bearing N. W. by W. distance
i- about 3 leagues) I discovered a frigate and brig
Handing fut<J th* fleet, making the private signal
to speak with me : they proved to be his majelly's
(hips Pegasus and Sylph sloop, whom 1 had order
ed tocruife oil the Naze of Norway. Capt. D'ln
nelly came on board and informed me that incon* 1
fcquence of the information he had received on the j
'I' Bth inft. of the Dutch frigate Argo and three na-1
u# tional brigs having left Flickeiod the dav beforr, j
.bound to the Texel, he proceeded off the Jutland
fn coast, and on the morning of the 9th got light of!
them. He kept near them all dayj but 101 l fight ) '
- of them about >10 o'clock that night: and judging j 1
it proper so make me acquainted therewith, diredt- j '
. tdcapt. White, "of the Sylph, to (leer a different
sourfe to himUlf in order to falrfn with me, and '
luckily tbey both joined. Having consulted with 1
capt. Donnelly, and found they could not be many
league* from us, I immediately dispatched capt.
Hallled in the Phoenix, together with tile Leopard, '
Pegasus, and Sylph, to pruceed to the northward of 1
the Texel, and fpreac the reft of the fquadren.— 1
All the (hips had just madt fail about 5 o'clock wlien
the signal was made for feeing the Dutch frigate '
and brigs ; made the signal for a general ch&ce, it
then blowing lirong a' W. N, W. with very hazy 1
weather. At a little beforeo'clock the '
__ w ;,|, »u- »..«cmnjpfcfc .v. ;g J
36 guns, and manned With 237 men, and, after a '
very fraart action of about half 411 hour (durtug 1
which time (he msdc every effort to get off) (he
(truck to the Phcenix'-s superior fire ; for the parti- 5
cularsof which 1 null beg to refer thetr lordships v
to capt. Halfted's letter herewith inclosed, who, '
I have the pleaftire to fay, has on this, and every'
other occasion whilst under my command, (hewn
himfelfto be a mod adlive, zealous and excellent of- '
ficer. i
W« continued in chace of the brigs, leaving the 0
Powerful to assist capt. Halfted in ihifting the
prisoners', &c. At ioo'clock we fawtho Leander c
afid Pegasus near two of the brigs, (which we have 0
since found to be the Echo of i 8 guns, and the De
Geir of 14 guns) but it was so hazy and blowing
f» hard, we soon loft fight of them: however, by
the inclosed letter 1 received from captain Donnelly
their lordships will be informed they wete bosh run ''
on shore neat Bafch, about ten leagues to the east- B
ward of the Texel. £
The Leandrr, I find flood as near the shore as ''
fhe'tould wi h fafety, and law one of the brigs a- P
ground ; and from the report of the mailer of one
of the cutters I sent on Ihore after, find one of 0
them was completely loft ; the other had beat over r<
a (Jioal and got to an anchor, but as it blew a per.
fe£t dorm the next on (hore, have reason .to be
lieve (he is loft also.
We flood after the other brig, and a little before
elevtyi (he ftiuck to the Sylph ; she proves to be h
the Mercury of 16 all of whieh except tvo in
(he had thrown overboard during the chace, and
manned w.th 85 meri. We then found ourselves ft
far to the eastward, with the wind on shore, which b<
obliged us to arry a press of fail, and in the flight F\
it came to blow a very hard gale of wind, which ti
continued the whole of the next day ; and the day T
following, being moie mo-Jeiate, was rejoined by
the Powerful, Phoenix, and Brilliant, together with
the Dutch ftigate and the Duke of York bye-boat
from Yarmouth to Hamburgh, which had been cap
tured by the Argo the day before, and re aken by
the Phsemx on the ! 2 th. The frigate is in excei
enrcondition, and in a few days might be got rea
cy for sea, and made a complete cniizcr.
ADAM DUNCAN.
Phoenix, at Sea, May 15, 1796. jei
t > ' .
I haye the plcafure to inform you, that a fljort pi
time your orders on the morning of ajs
the tzth mil. we saw j fail on the lee bow in the of
, . * 9 , " r t« r . upon a wind on the (larboard tack, ac
which we made out to be a frigate, 3 armed brig* ac
and a cutter. I immediately made fail, and soon
cl.lcove.ed them to be enemies ; at the fame time th
the Pegasus made the fignul for such to yon. U- an
pon our near approach the brigs bore up and made yc
fad ; the Pegasus Sylph followed them, who an
were in chafe wwh me, the frigate appaiently undc an
teimined whether to go large or keep by the wind, jel
as (he often changed her position during the chace, an
but length kept with the wind a-beam. Quar- mi
£ um ' bfmg cl(,fe on her wca, her quart- fer
er, she hoilled Dutch colours, upon which I or lot
dered a (hot to be fired across : a few minutes after f«i
L T'a g f,de her ,£> wi "'lward, when a
mart action commenced, which lalled about 20 mi (hi
"U.es, when the Dutch frigate Argo. of f un S , an
under nJy'command!' «
with infinite pleaftire I alTure you of the pa
IhZlci a ' d tT 1 bct r° Ur 0f ,he "d p ri
beinir fn n i l,a " y e honor 10 cftnnnahd, it
prS 10 m " lt ev£r >''hing I can fay i„ the ir res
J rE ~ d i " the man
Wc o ] sir sv yOM t0 lhe ' r lord,hi P'. Mr. Joseph wl
wood, firft lieutenant, who, from l„ng experience
"d Ready officer like conduct, Is highly
« moll particular attention, our hfs ing
one man killed a„d twenty eight ,o» nae X of
them dan^oufly.
tielai.s, ftandinyand runnin(i^ ,n g» r eceived ti„ r
tome damage, as did the r Jf'. h t not of f„ f ror
much conference but P* 2 ' 'origlits. The | lav ,
•'Rate and the Norway, bound to em ;
t-ie 1 exel j the we ri'toofc is the Dukr (
of York packet, from Yarmouth to the Elbe, takm
by them tlic (Jay beloie.
\V. L. HALSTED,
Adam Dnncan, Esq. admiral of-tju: Blue.
FRANCE.
Tmomms Paine to the Council of Five Hundred.
ad CITIZENS,
I present you a final! work entitled, "Decay
to and fall of the Englifit Syltem of Finance;" j„
tf( j which I have explained and brought to tlte
on , finance! ot your principal enemy, the Englilh RO .
vernment. If I have any abi : i y to judge of 1 lie
ier| circumilances, and by them, of probable events,
,| lt that Machiavelian government diaws near its e,.<l.
', ce The circumltances in which it now fends, are
,jg as curious as they are criri al, and quite different
n ,| fromanyothei.it hastier been* involved in; tin,
y' s inferior and formidable enemies who never had
| er . Ihewn themselves in any preceeding war, press it
now on every hde ; the one is the great and pro
on- jjrcfnve change of opinion, spreading itfelf widely
the j England, concerning the hereditary system of
na-1 government ; and ibis system has much more fallen ,
ire, : ■° the opinion of the people of that country, the!*
lllc j four years, than it had done in France the four
o/i y ear » ? hat the French Revolution. The
,ht j other is » ,he discovery made at the last by the pub
inj, ■ lie, that the system of Finance, by loans or conftitu
:£t. j ted rents, (funding fyllem) the only resource of the
; Englifli government in order to get the money they
lm | ate in continual want of, is nothing but a gover
-Ith mental fraud.
Ny In the preceeding war the English government
p t- was lupported by the superstition of the country
for, a thing which cxifU but in the name and which
| Q f they tall a constitution, and by their credulity in
their oam system of Finance ; from these two popu
lcn lar errors, it drew all its Brength, and now they
ste vanish, their refourcrs are e*bs.uft«d.
; t When the Englilh government, that monster,
Z y the reiult of national blindness and maritime
oppretfipn.jj once overthrown, tbe *»o»J4 will b«
"j "TreeUirom the common enemy, and' the two nati
- a ons, France and England may depend,upon a reci-
UJ r procal fraternity and a durable peace.
h e \ The President " I announce to the council, there
t j. are deposited on the table two copies of that
p S work, one in English the other translated into
ia> French by our colleague Lanthcnas."
rv Tht honorable mention i« called for.
Defermoat, "I aik also the honorable mention,
,f. but as tie work presented to us is r'eferving of fix
ing of all who are now about laying the foundation
[j e of a system of Finanee, and one of our colleagues
he has translated it into French, I move that the Conn
er cil order its impreflion and diflribution to every one
ve of the members.''
) e The propoli'ion is adopted.
iy LONDON, May 23.
ly Letters fr»m Amsterdam, dated the 16th in ft.
ln have been received in town ; they "Itate, the mod
ft- a&ive exertions to be making in the dock-yards of
Amsterdam, Rotterdam, Helvoet anrl the Brill,
as to complete several (hips of war building at thofc
a- ports.—On the 16th, twenty-two jveflels of war,
1e five of which weie of the line, and the majority '
of the relidue frigates were lying in the Texel,
er ready for sea.
r.
' 1 1 ■ ——gßMßßUßW— taarnmm— i i
QUEBEC, July 14.
re His Excellency L»rd Dorcheftcr embarked with
>e his family, and failed sot England on Saturday lalt,
0 in hismajefty's fliip Afiive, Capt. Gower.
id The eilitiiation in which his Lordlhip's aJmimV
■s (Iration of the Government of this Province has
:h be«n uniformly held, appears from the following
it Addirefles presented 011 ihe morning of his depart
h ture.
y To his Excellency the Rioht Honorah'e GUY
y LORD DORCHESTER, Knight of the
h mod H morable Order of <i»e Bath, Captain
it General, and Covernor in Chief, in and over
>• the Provinces of Lower Canada, Upper Cana
y da, Nova-Sco'sa and New Biunfuiek,' General
)- and Commander in Chief of all his Majelly's
X- forces in North Carolina, &C. &C. &C.
May it please your Excellency.
Having experienced.for many L«rd«-
(liip'i mild and auspicious adminiHration of his ma
jetty's governmerrt, and being confch us, that dar
ing that pelioif, the resources, prolpen y and hap
t pinefs of this Province, have increased in a degree
if almost unequalled. Wc the inhabitants of ihetity
e of Quebec, refpe&fully requ. ft yotir Lordship to.
accept -our sincere and niott grateful thanks andi
s acknowledgments.
n The length ot your residence in the Province,
c the advantages derived to our society fi.oin the ex
- ample of piivate virtues, (hewn by yourfelf and
e your iamily, your Lordlhip's uniform, prudent
■j and paternal attention, under every change of time
- and circumftanee, to the true interests of his ma
, jeßy 8 fubjetts enti lifted to your immediate care,
, -ind that gratitude which we tee), an<T must ' e per
mitted to repeat, excite in our mi. d$ the warmtfc
sentiments of perfonitl attachment ; of which al
low us, my Lord, to render yon he tlro"g*ft as"
t ftrrancet.
a Under these imprefiione, we v'ew your Lprd
fhips intended departure, with the dcepeft regret;
, and submitting to your deiermination to leave us
, with unfeigned reludlance, we entreat you, ,u
accept our most hncei* willies tor your ftrorsfc.?
f paflage to Great-Britain, forfhe futt'-e health and
1 prosperity of yourfelf all y6ur family.
t We request mod humbly and
r refpe&fully to our Sovereign, of (?ur faith-,
ful loyalty ap^' Uc hment to his facied person,
'o gratitude, for the various
1 continue to enjny under that moll/'"!-
; conflitmion of government, whirh w' have
Received from his maj sty and his u * _
ing your lordfliip's admii'iftiation. /
It is our fervent prayer, that your rfiay
continue for many years, to receive ne/ and addi
tional proofs of the ,0 whuhj,
from your virtues and your merit/y ou
have been, and must ever remain, molt juSly
eminently entitled.
Quebec, lit July, 1796.To his Excellency the Right GUY aroii
LORD nqRCHESTER, Captain General, dd
and Governor in Chief, oce. &c. &c»
May it pleaft your LordJ'bip, " lt .
The inhabitants of Montreal penetrated with t(*ri
gratitude for the happiness enjoyed by them under C
your lordrtiipYadminillration of the government of the
this province, dnring a great number of year*. part
brace the present oppohunity of your intended de- efie<
mrture for Great Britain, to entreat you to receive cite
jheir humble acknowledgments, and to accept their thoi
mod sincere wiihes for a favorable paflage, for your that
health and prbfperity, and for that bf all your fa- wot
roily
The prudence and moderation which dilUngriifh- tl<e
ed your conduct in this province, internal lira
peace and tranquility ; and in reflecting infinite n.fir
honor »p.« /our tonHhip, have Wf joft.fied the oug
confidence reposed in you by our lovereign, obit
and secured to you the affe&ions of the inhabitants.
We beseech you, my lord, to carry our moll ar dec;
dent vews to the foot of the throne, for the hap- I
pmefs of our gracious monarch, to afftire him ol lurt
our attachment to his facrcd pfcrfon and to the nap- 2
nv government under which it is our glory to live ; det<
and we fervently pray that his maj.lty's app.oba- tion
tion may continue to diftioguilh and reward your to I:
virtues, and your merit. 3
His Lordship returned to both Addresses the sol
lowing Answer : wit
Gentlemen, S UI
lam obliged by this testimony of your regard i
for me and my family. It is unnecessary for meto
assure you, that your welfare, and the general hap- giv
pinefs and prosperity of this province, in which 1 pro
have pafled so gieat a part of my life, will ever in- and
terrefl me in the mod fcnltble manner. bet
1 (hall with the utrnoft pleasure embrace every ing
occasion of reprefentiivg to his inajelty the loyal'y
oT bis fubjefta in Lower Canada, and the ir attach- fro
ment to his person and government. of
Your veneration for a m»»arcli who may Jullfjr fee
be styled the father of his people, is a proof that jou
you hold in proper ellimation the excellent confti- joy
tution he has given to this country, and which, I ths
. have no doubt, will rapidly advance it to be of the int
firft importance among the British provinces. wli
ii r —— q u
BY THIS DAY'S MAILS. Fr
PORT of NORFOLK,
KNTERED. nQ
Brig Sophia, Shinley, Jamaica
Schooner Phoebe, Frazei;, Cape Nichola-Mole
Minerva, Perkins, ditto.
Mercury, Laboyteaux, Martinique
' Minetva, Chapman, Jamaica
PORT OF BALTIMORE. *
AUGUST 2. ENTERED. jjj
Brig Fanny, Hopkins, Aux Cayes
Schooner Mary, Vibert, Demarara „j,
Polly, Dennis, Salem
Sloop Sterling, Maxwell, Mariirrico
I r Polly. Hall, . Port-aii-Prioce
Nancy, Efbeck, Antigua
NEW-YORK, Augull 3.
Extract of a letter from a merchant i» Liverpool, to
his Correfpoudent in this City, dated 26th May,
J 79 6 - . : / ' ar
II All kinds of g-rain are much lower ; good .
wheat s now felling at 10s. per 7010. Indian
corn 3s. per Wincbefter bushel. I now hold the
remainderof your pearl alhes at 60s. and have no
doubt but I (hall fooo obtain it.
B
ARRIVED at this PORT. fa
BAYS, t'l
Brig Baron de Carondolet, M'Call, Leghorn 82 so
Schooner Chatham, Lovcit, Leogane, 17 c<
Sloop Venus, Squires, Jamaica 23
From Capt. M'Call, of the brig Baron de Ca- fu
rondalet, in 82 days from Leghorn, and 45 from r«
Gibraltar, we learn that a Bermudian Privateer,
mounting (ixteen tz's, has been captured by the c
French frigate the Scipto, which lay here refitting S
(o me while fine*. „ c
We are informed that Capt. M'Call, has brought o
rfifpatches from the American Canful at Gibraltar, tl
to the executive of the United States.
Tranjlated for the New York Gazette.
PAR IS.
Extract of a letter from Franckfort, Miy 18. »
" Yesterday morning all the troops which were
here f set off for Alzey. Trains of artillery, with
their baggages, are continually paffwg, who take
the Limbourg route. The Imperial cayalry, who j
were encamped in our environs, are also on the , f
inarch. Never were any movements mors alert or I ]
preparations stronger. r
" The movements on the fide of the Upper a
Rhine are not less considerable. Advice has been
received from Worms, on the 12th, for'the troops v
to pass th Rhine without interruption, and to go
towards Hoppcnheim and Lautern : a bridge is a
going to be thrown up from the fide of Bcngsn."
FRENCH REPUBLIC,
A 1 X, sth Prairial. 1
It is not without reason, in announcing to us
the confpiraey of Babeuf j you anticipated, that I
his accomplices would not delay trying aloud for
i re-action. The-vfollowin|T account juftifies how
rriich your suspicions were founded. t
Dt-ree ps the Municipal Adjpinift.r a t| o0 f lorn [|, £
Canton of Aix, 3d Prairia\.
Cohering, that since the discovery of con
fpiracyoi the infamous Babeuf, the enemies of v\ .
lepublicantjovernment, avowing against the decrees 1
of the sth\d 15th Fruftidor, the partigans of
s the revolt of the organizeis from the
company of th Sun and Jesus at length th- re
promoters of Fire?l, deceived by the borrowed
- colours by those l a te coufpiratei s, afiembled i»•
crowds in the pubU; placcs, uniting together in
the coffee houses, ft-ding up the exasperation of
the mind, flirrjng up t, e flames of civil war by de-
Cgned atrocities and inetndiaries.
• Viewing, tiat since th*t period, ma«-flaughter
arointed again and is fpreSd about—the *illaino-,re
del-rtersj from the requ frioi, date /hew themfclves A
—the dillurbing priefls re assume their audacity^— gio,
the fa 'aties their prepo{Teffi>) is, and the hypocrites
fnnguinaiy plan ot detiruilion. A
O'ifervint: that all those fynptoms joined with chin,
the affi'ination of the criminal tribune of the de
partment, in its decree of the 29th Flore.il last, A
effectively announce, that the late commotions ex- regie
cited at Parts, have an evident eonne&ion with
those which threatened the public tranquillity, and A
th3t B tbeuf has either accomplices or persons who of S
would continue difturbance3 in our countiies.
O* serving, at length, that it is neither the duty, A
the dignity, ot even the good faith of an admini- "affiin
tlration. to rid itfelf of its responsibility by infig- by I
nifirant and sterile discoveries } but on ths contrary,
ought to despise every murmur, and brave every A
ojjftacle, to infurc rcfpedt to persons and property:
The comrpiffary from the Executive Directory A
' decrces—
1. Every coffee-houfe/hall be (hut up until a A
further order.
2. Repeated orders /hall be given for the prompt 1
detention of deserters and youth from the requifi- Proi
jion ; the commiflary of the Executive Directory
to be charged therewith. beer
3. Patroles thill paradtt the (Ireets and disperse at F
all riotous meetings. \ The
4. Every i«»divi ual is forbid to walk out atmed foil
with pistols, swords or sticks (the military national ■}
guards in fervicv and public functionaries excepted.
j
The tranquillity which reigns in the city has,
given cause for a general surprise, in beholding this
proclamation published amid the found of drums Ext
and.trumpets, which was occasioned by rage, to I
behold the public fatijfaftion that appeared by find- t'
ing out the discovery of the conspiracy.
The alarm has not spread abroad, the youth
from the requifuion have not returned, the assertion I
of the commune is falfe and calumnious ; the cos oft
fee-houles ate open for the Multitude to read the lie*
journals upon the arrival of the couriers; and the the
joy which appeared expecting the messages from it h
the Directory, would drive the municipal terrorists ho*
into desperation ; whose wifhis weie, that those was
who did not receive the journals, /hould be ac- -
quainttd with the events. wh
Fresh proofs of the correspondence frofn the cob- tha
fpirarors with the departments. wai
MONTAUBAN, ift Prairial. jj^
An hour before the - courier arrived, whi«h an
nounced a discovery of the conspiracy, the alarm
befl was founded here, the alarmed citizens halten Wa
in crowds to the municipality ; the mayor tells them
he is utterly ignorant from what authority the or
der was ifTued ; the jail keeper allures them, he
has no knowledge of it. The courier at length j".
arrives, our exclujifs furrouud the poft-office, and ,
pjffefs th'mfelves of the news; but it would be
difficult to pi&ure to you their dcTpair, when they a
discovered that the conspiracy had been a trick.
1 They now endeavor to perfnade themfclves that this '
conspiracy is only chimerical, as a proof of which tr < "
they give the minutes of Louvet, whom they call
the iTefender of oppressed patriots.
One Pages, a (locking mannfaflurer, a member
of the former revolutionary cAuniitee, lately ar- P' 1
( rived at Paris, is fufpefled of having been the
courier from the infurreiilion committee. .
' Through all the small neighboring villages, the
1 arrival of the express Was been preced»»' by meet- . '
ings at the houses of the ringleaders of the terror*
' ifts< he
, DINANT, 4th Prairial. m;
The discovery of the hidecfl'.s plot of Drouet, te ,
Babceuf, &c. has been the topic of every conver
fation hce within eight days pad. Evely friend to wc
. the constitution, order and pcace, Rejoice at this Wl
2 fortunate event, which appear to have daikened f u
1 certain countenances hut newly radient.
3 Many of our cxclufifs had adopted the dubious th
plan of their patron, Ch. Duval; we are now as- t y
i. fured they at last begin to think something of the na
n reality of this confpirary.
r, News are circulated, that two envoys of the fell w
,e created directory of Public fafety, were arrived at f a
g Sr. Malo ; aad that after finding the mine had been
counter worked at Paris, they fled. I cannot fay up- [ t
it on what grounds this rumour is founded ; the aU tc
r, thenticity of which I do not vouch for cl
Lil of articles of arts and sciences which have
been carried off, to be cqnveyed to Paris, by !
order of the commander in Chief of the French i
% army in Italy, and the commissioners of the said
re army, viz.
h From the Library of St. Ajnbrofe.
A carton, school of Athens, by Raphael. A' 1 ai
>0 picture, a virgin, by Luilini. Do. a virgin with a
j flowers, bu Rubens. Da. a concert, by Giorgiou. o
ar j Do. a virgin, by Lutas d'Olande. Do. a wo- c
man's head, by Leonardo de Vinci. Do. a soldier .is
e. r and old man, by Calabreffe. w
:n An Etruscan Vase, representing divers figures a
?« with ornaments. a
[" A manuscript written oil the Papyrus of Egypt ; t
" about 1 too years old, on the antiquities of Joseph 1 p
' by Ruffin,
A manuscript Virgil, formerly belonging to Pe- v
traich, with notes in his hand writing. 1;
"8 A meft curious manuscript on the hi/tory of the I
at Popes. • •
■" From Alle Grazzie.
w A picture, the crown of thorns, by Titian. Do. I
St. Paul, by Gondenzo Ferraire. c
ie . From Alia Vittoria. f
A picture, the assumption, by Salvator Rosa. c
n From the Academy of Parma. i
A picture, the Virgin and St. Jerome, by Cor* :
~ ei ,v rio. Do. .by Sabidone. lio. an ado
of ratio,.. by Majolla.
From the Capuchins. r
IC j 1 r* 3 ' Tr'- H °K> by Ouerchin. Do. a Virgin
-ed and fcveral Cifracchi .
!" . .. t f FrO, Paul's.
w A picture, Jcfus Chnu. gt p au , and g|> Ca .
or tharine, by Kaphael.
de- From Le Stenata. i
A picture, the maniage of the vir K . ■ p ro . '
iter cacchini. '
From St. Gio's.
A picture, the defeent from the croft, by Corre
gio,
From the Capiuh.nV
A picture, the virgin and St. Francis, by Cuer- C!
chin. . . Mot
From St. Sepulchre's. vnti
A picture, la Madonna della Scodellas, by Cor- 1 1
regio. .
From St. Roche's.
A picture, several faint 3, by Spagmolletti. Do. J a y»
of St. Roche, by Paul Veronese. ,a *
From St. Quintin's. m ' n
A picture, a baptiftn, by Flamingo. Dn. an °fh.
"affiimption, by Spagniolletti. Do. of St. Y '
by L*d franc. . 1
From St. Andrew's. J? ml
A picture, , by Spagniolletti. iinct
From St. Michael's. Un '
A picture, a"virgin, by a difeiple of Correggio. £°°'
From St. Paulas. tl,el "
i A picture, a virgin, by Au<;u(line Carrautie. c < >m
. From la Plaifance. ''"J 1
Two j»iftures, of Louis Cart autie, and one of '
. Procaccitii. e ' ev
The pictures and manuscripts of Milan have She
been sent to Paris by the agent for the arts.—Those 00
: at Parma and Plaifance were only felefted by l.im. a y
Thefommander in chief has charged another per- '
I son with conveying them tci Paris. zetl
! "(Signed) : TINET. *"1
* * - • • - SALICETTI. Jhc
19th Prairial (7th June) 1796. u "'
, , plic
s ARMY OF ITALY.
s Extract of a letter from the Commiflary of the '
> Executive Directory, near the army of Italy, to wo '
the Directory. are
10th Prairial, 4th year. '
\ Citizen Direftor3, mai
•1 The army, on entering Lombardy. 00 account
of the defeat of the Auflrianf, had no catrte to be-
e liev-B it would be forced to suppress the tumults of '' ,a
e the people ; because, from the joy they have (hewn,
nit had every reason to fuppofc the contrary—l g'A
a however feel happy to inform you, that the result b"
e was as favorable as it was fuddenlv efFefted. nut
1 was informed, on the jth, by Gen. Defpitioy,
who commanded at Milan, that in the suburbs of the
1- that city, on the fide towards Pavia, some danger affs
was appreheeded by reason of the assembling of ver
the people. Troops were sent to disperse them, but pt'
the rebels endeavoicd to disarm them. Several K r <
1_ were killed or wounded, the others flew and order brc
II was again restored. P' l
n In the course of the night I was told that in&ir- tin
11 eeftious had also taken place at Vateza, as well ac .d«
r " at Pavia and at Lody, and tliattVe tocsin was rung ant
', C in the country, in order to alarm the people—that pr<
! this (edition, which beyond doubt was fomented by J» r f
nobles and prieils, was raised for the purpofc of as- 'Wo
>e faffiuating the French; that the garrison of Pavia am
was dif armed, and that the countrymen had mtir- frc
V dered the men employed by government for the Tl
transport of artillery and military stores. A 1
* I didnot hefitateto put a ftopjto this ferment. 1 Ti
1 ordered several suspicious persons under arrest, and! th
these means backed by the exertions of Ges. Dcs I <ltl
er pinoy, restored peace to Milan.
r * 1 immediately informed Gen. Buonaparte of all I
' C those circumstances, he immediately arrived at Mi- jFi
lan, and we set off for Pavia, the feat of the rebellion. I dc
16 On our coming to Berafco, General of Brigade de I M
1 Lafne, who commanded, the van guard, perceived aI ne
number of armed men to the number of 7or 800,1 f"
he fell on them and killed upwards of too, the re
mainder took to flight, and our troops juitly inita-1
:t > ted. set site to the village.
:r We continued our march to Pavia, whose gates I 1
to we found (hut, and the inhabitants in arms—W. m
'is were informed the French garrison were made pri- I
foners of war.
General Buonaparte summoned the rebels ; but I P'
,u « the summons not being antwered, attacked the ci-1 Sty
ty : We cannonaded fa/ some time, but the gre-1
he nadiers breaking dovjn the gates with axes, the re
bels were either killed or dispersed, and the city ?'
elf wgs t^ken —we might be juftified in faying by as- "
at fault. The Ooverndr was liberated.
:cn J (Jifmiffed the municipality—and have replaced 111
■P" it. 1 have caused a number of nobles and priests 1
• u to be arretted j some of whom, tried by a military
commiflion, have been fhot—Peaee is now entirely 1
restored. • . ■
Contributions are coming in, in profufion.
by ! (Signed) SALICETTI. I
tch | PARIS, 23d Prairial. k
aid Vadier, late member of the Convention, has
i been arretted at Toulouze. (
Gen. Klcber, commanding the lift wing of the
A s ' army of the Sambrc and the Meufe, has addrefled
ith a proclamation t« the inhabitants of the right bank $
ou. of the Rhine, by which he promises fafety and fe- -
wo- curity if they remain in the country. All he alks (
Her . is, that they will not quit their homes. All those '
who, not acting up to the invitation, will follow J
ires and join the enemy, will be considered as having (
j acted as such, and looked upon as having under- ■
pt ; taken their cause and their defence, and their pro-1
eph pcrty (hall either be burnt or given up to pillage. I
We are alTured that the Pretender is always |
Pe- with the army of Conde. Letters frtfm Zwitzer- J
land inform us, that he was there on the 31ft of I
the Mat. I ,
MADRID, April 20. I
Perignon, ambafTador of the French!
Do. Republic near the king of Spain, has just rectiv- I
ed a prcfent from the fovereign,a mod superb coach, I
horfts and rich harness, besides two handsome fad- j.
t. die horses.— He is pieparing to be presented to the I
king at Aranjuez.
Dor- I
A COACHEE and CHAIR.
FOR SALE or HIRIE, a Coachee, Chair, and Har
ness, without Horses. Ebqu' re at No - 10 3 Arcll et> 1
rgin Augsft 4 * [t
Board & Lodging in the Country. I
Ca- A Single Gentleman may b« accompiodated with l-o-rd
xA- and lodging naar Germantown, with the uic °f a I
stable, -Aid grass for one or two fcorfes : a* an agreeable J
society is the chief objed, the terms will be madeperie&-
Pro- ly tafy. Enquire cf the Printer of the Gazette. |
Philadelphia,
THURSDAY EVrNING, Anc.osT 4.
(O* The Death of Mrs. Mary Ciaypools,
Mother to the Printers of the si met lean DmHj A<l
- will prevent the publication of that paper
To-morrow. 7inrfday, jlugnjl 4.
*„* The George-Town paper due per post thii
Jay, was not fe.-e'jtcd by the Editor.—Sit'ce tlu
drawing of the Wafliiiifrton Lottery No. 2 com
menced, bnt cMeTiFthofe papers containing the lilt
, of blanks and prizes ha* been received in due co'urfc
( by ilte mail.
Th. paflengers ill the brjg Ma«y, Captain Ben
jamui Eau, from Hamburgh, return I'iim their t
finctre thpnHs for his kind and humane ufuge whi'.ll
on bosrd said brig, and for a plentiful allowance of
good wholesome provifiom, and they recommend to
their friends remaining in Germany who mean to
come to this country (if fud briyr Mary fhuuld con
tinue in that trade) to take paflaye in her.
f The (hip Hariiot has arrived off Wilmington, in
eleven weeks from Londonderry, in great dtllrefs.
. She had on board 450 passengers, 45 of whom died
e on tlw paflage, 36 were pressed by a frigate a few
days ago,and ijarefick onboard.
Tbe feftival of the Corpus Chrifti, fays the Ga
zette Francaifeof May 27, was celebrated at Paris
with unofnal solemnity. All the shops were shut ;
the public walks were crouded and the churches
full. Had Hebert, Chaumette and oihet accom
plices been alive, tliey would have been convinced
tha the public opinion, in religious matters, is not
? so easily subdued as they imagined ; and ftrangera
0 would have done the French justice to believe they
are not atheists.
A letter from Broil states that great effort*are
made to restore the marine to a refpeftable ftatc j
it hut, in the late organization, many old officers have
been neglected, and some among ihcm, are those
,f that fuffcred under the reign of ttrror.
The tribunalof Annulment reported to the Le
-1 giflitture of France, 7th Prairial, that there had
It- been rendered civil and criminal judgments, to the
number of 2679.
r , The confpfiracy of the Jacobins iu France, which
} f the Aurora has (tat .d to have been a very triflin
;r affair, is said in the Paris Gazettes to havs been
if very emenfive, and to have embraced molt of the
it ptriots of '89, or, in other words, the clubs-. In a
a l great number of cities, these anarchifis armed and
cr broke out into open revolt about the 26 and 28
Floreal, the time thej expected the execution of
r . their projefls in Paris. At Marseilles, the oretcn
ai ,d«d patriots wereliberated from prison.—- At Troyeg
ig and at Nagent or Leine, the municipalities, under
ai pretext of lendering the national guards oftive, had
jy armed the remains of the Jacobins and the revolti
if. tlonary committees. Othcrpeople weie difarmeil,
•ia and it was openly said that orders were expe&ed
ir- from Paris to exterminate tfiofe called chouani
he The houses destined to pillage weie marked out.
At Bougesy the jurifJidtion was fupprelTed—at
I Tatrefcon all good-citizens were forced to abandon
nd 1 the brigands became mailers and in-
L-f I dulged in all kinds of exccfs. (Minerva.)
all! The alatam at Turin, on'he approach of the
li-1 French, was such, as that the wife of the Pretcn
,n. I Jer, the daughter of the King Sardinia, and
de I Madame d'Artois fl;d from the city. On the
is I newsof the Armifljse, they returned ; but not be
>0,1 fuffered to remain there after the Treaty.
re- I _ ———
ta _ J A eitizen of Toulon was condemned to several
I days imprisonment for singing li re-veil du f tuple.
tr6 The tribunal of Caflation li:.w annulled the iafa-
y t meus fcntcnce.
iri- I ——
An account from Naples of April 30, lays, the
>Ut j arretted and impriioned, in Naples and
C J. I Sicily, amojint to comprehending ma&
re . I of the men of letters, monks and rcclefialtics.
re . I The French government has sent to Italy to
; t y I colled monuments of the arts, Labillardiere, Thou
af. jin -the elder, naturalifts—Barthelemy, painter—
I Moite,fculptot—Bsrtholet, chymift—Monge Geo
cec t I metiieian.
efts I . "
ar y I ARRIVED. 4 ■ day*
re jy Biig Friend/hip, Trott, Liverpool 73
1 Molly, Medlin, Port-au-Prince 16
Six Brothets. Waters, Port-de Paix 16
I P° r g a > Arnold, Maftha-Brx 31
J Schooner Ululia, Wheeler, L'Anfevesu 18
j, a 8 Ann, Brown, Jeremie 14
Winthrop, Allen, New-York 6
the Sloop Rebeeca, Boyle, Alexandria 16
(f e j j Fanny, Mitchell, New.York 6
ank CLEARED. '
I fe-1 Ship Andromacly, Kingston, Cadiz^
aflts I Ocean, Vredenburgh, Teneriffe & W. Indie*
iiofe I Ship Ganges, Green, Calcutta
How ! Brig Susanna, Fitzpatrick, Bourdeaux
r J Henry and George, Ropers, Hamburgh
dev. I Schooner Catherine, Stey, Hifpaniola
p fo . I lfabella, Drifcol, Jamaica
g Ci I Fanny, Venn, New-Yoik
va y, I Polly, Wilson, Currituck,
zer- I Hope, Rogers, \ do.
t 0 f I Sloop Hiram, Ryan, Havre-de Grace
I Crpt. Arnold, on nth July, the Coxeomb,
I bearing S. E. by E. distant 12 leagues, spoke the
rnch I brig Success, from Martha-Brae, to Newport, R;
C^JV , 11.12 days out; her captain died in port.
, ac b, I Arrived at the Fort,
fad-1 .Schooner lfabella, Clifton, St. Bartholomews
> the I The ichooner Succefe, Capt. Willfams, from
I Philadelphia, arrived at Port-de-Paix July 14.
= ■■ 1 ay.., ...v,.. .'.■tttst.
BY AN ARTIST,
I Reftdent at Mr. Qellers's Hotel, -
tret. MINI ATUIIE LIKENESSES
II I ARE taken and executed in that el«gant and delicatc
— I /l stile, which is so necessary to render a Miniature Pic
'• I ture an interesting jewel.
L-o-rd I He will warrant a strong and indisputable refem
of a 1 blance; and he takes the liberty to lay before the public
:eable 1 of this place his most earned intention to deserve their fß
riedt- I rronage by his best endeavors to pWfe.
I N. B. Specimens arc to b« seen."* \ -
Treasury of the United States. |<
NOTICE is nereby given to all persons who are or fSFOt
may be Creditors of the United States, for any sums p au l
of the Funiri Debt, or Stock, iciring a present inUrcJt of fix tQ j
per centum per annum. Qhi<
i ft, That pursuant to an Act of Congress patted on the of
28th day of April, 1796, intitled an aft in addition to an m
aft, intituled " An afl making futther provifiyn for the (
support of public cradit, and for the redemption of the ;j
public debt, 1 ' the said debt or flock will be reimbursed and Jand.
paid in manner following to wit. First, by dividends! ■j-j u , ;i
lL to be made on the last day* of March, June and Septem- | fl
" ber for the present year, and front the year one thousand c ] a ; man
" seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year one thou- jj, e ,f a y
" sand eight hundred & eighteen inclufive,at the rate of n.b.
" one and one half per centum upon the original capital.
11 Secondly, by dividends to be made on the last day of evcr
" December for the present year, and'from the year one t j,; s a< j^,
" thoufar.d (even hundred and ninety-seven, to the year i n be
" one thousand eight hundred and seventeen inclusive,
" the rate of three and one half per centum upon the ori
" ginal capital; and by a dividend to be ma eon the last
" day of, December, in the year one thousand eight hun
" dred ind eighteen, of such Turn, as will be then ade- UIVI
" quate, according to the contrast, for the final redemp- Pj
" tion of th- said flock."
ad. All diftinftion between payments on account of
Tntrrr'l a!ici Principal being thin abolished by the eftablilh- I "H.
ment of the permanent rule of reimbursement abovs de- ' n
scribed, it has become necessary to vary accsrdingly the ftrifl C
powers of attorney for receiving divider, Js; th public nia Dil
creditors will therefore observe that the following form
i» established for all powers of attorney which may be at the 1
granted after the due promulgation ot this notice, viz. (j
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that
J ,/ in
do make, conjlitute and appoint
my true and lawful At-
me, and in my name, to receive the dividends ivh cb are,
or Jhali be payable according to law, on the (here describing the
ftock)/landing in my name in the books of (here defcribmg the The
books of the Treasury or the Commifiioncr of Loans, . con( j el
the (lock is credited) fro™ (here mfert the com- I
mencement and expiration'of time for which the power of I jyj ar (] 1
attorney is to continue) with power also an attorney or att:r-
sties wder him, for that parpofe to make andfubjlitute, and to do all
lawful aas,reqnifttcjor efferting thepremifes\ hereby ratifying and
'confirming all that my said Attorney or his fubfitute,pall lawful
ly do, by virtue hereof T
J n JVitnefs hereof I have bercuntv set my Hand and Seal the
day of ' in the year (
Sealed and Delivered WJ
in preface of } .
BE IT KNOIVN, that on the day of contai
before me personally came I a^e 7
'within nam id and acknowledged the above let-ter of attorney to be and 5
bit aft-and deed. T Kirge,
In tefimony whereof 1 have hereunto set my Hand and affix- none
ed, Seal tbt day an iyear las afotvfaid. doors
Given under my Hand at Philadelphia, this twen- ny rai
tieth day of July 1796, pursuant to dire&ions ar, w
from the Secretary of the Treasury oVen*
SAMUEL MEREDITH, wine
. Ireafurer of the United States. area
y'uly 23. ' • • w&st IJ* Comi
' • ' 1 brick
Plans of the city of Philadelphia, ' £ g at 3
Including the Northern Liberties anil diflriil of p ar t
SOUTHWABK; may
Published, and fold bv dwei
BENJAMIN DAVIES, f' d '
No. 68, High ftre'et, J J
(Price one dollar.)
THIS plan js ih inches square, and has been en- A£ c
graved by one oif the firft artist« in the city, from a late ,
an<J accurate forvey. Purchasers are entitled to a pam- ;
phlet with each plan, giving " some account of the roon
city, its population, trade, government, &c. ma ; r
July 19 ta & f tf
— — Attl
Samuel Richardet, 6l
RESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEE HOUSE in the
city of Philadel- hia. •
The Subscription Room will be furnilhed with all the I
daily papers published in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos-
ton, Baltimore, together with thole of the principal com- ? 1
mercial citixs of Europe—; They will be regularly filed ; ncw
and none permitted to be taken away on any account. f
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety lanC
of French Liquors; with the ufaal refrelhraents, ' on '
will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemes may depend oft being accommodated with ° J
. the choiccft of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the most .
approved Malt Liquors froraLondon and other breweries. 'P rl
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and earliest j
production* of tlio Season. I
Large and small Parties, or single Gentlemen, may be °
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at vcn
hours most convenient ta themselves—a cold Collation is
regularly k«pt for conveniency, the Bill of Fare to be had cu
at the bar. Vl
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furniflied, and c 0"
the utmost attention paid to.cleanliness, and every other
requiCtc. cc
gj', S\mvel Ricbardxt will be happy te receive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges "
himfelf that nothing on his part Hull be wanting tp pre
ferv»tKat patronage wish" which he has been so diftinguifli-
Ingly fijnored. "Tj
Philadelphia. April 19. eo J
Philjp Nicklin 6c Co. of
HAVE FOR SALE, an
Souchong
Hyson Skin /
Young llyfon > on
Hy-fon and \
Imperial J
Yellow Nankeens
China Ware, assorted in Boxes and Chests » w
QuickfJyer cc
Bandanno Handkerchiefs of excellent quality in tl
chests
London Market MADEIRA WINE
London particular ■ >in pipes, hogfbeads, &
New-York Market J quarter casks
Teneriffe Wine in pipes and liogft
Sugar Candy 1)V the Box J
Sail Canvas No. i a 8 v
Lead in sheets
-3 Casks of Cutlery xfjortcd •[
A few chests of Mauchefter Goods, afTortcd thick
sets, cords, striped Nankeens, &c. '
3 Small packages of black sewing-silks
8 Tigitfcs Virginia Snake-root.
Nails assorted in casks
Tulv 18 . mw&S -
Twenty Dollars Reward. '
WAS STOLEN, last evening, from the pasture of the
fuWcriber, a black Rockingham GELDINfI, 15
»-a hinds high, has a flar, and fotne white r.nder his
throat, (the parfbeing formerly chafed) ;has a leather 011
his neck, the mane fn the near fide, his frmt-locks fretted (
\vith a clog, and isa horse of much bone and size. Who
ever secures hiin with the thief, shall have the above re- '
w?rd. or for the Horse alone a very generous tompenfa
rion " J»HN LAWRENCE.
July 7 CO4W
JOHN PAUL JONES.
TNFORMATION is hereby given, that the 1 -John U 7
1 Paul Jones was a proprietor of fire lhares (amoun
ine to about <867 lcres 1 ) in atraft of land .purchafeJ .5
the Ohio t ompany, in the territory of the United Mates wh( . r( . h(
of America, r.orth-we!t of the river Ohio; and that Ins undermc
heirs, or legal reprefer.tative, on application to the d>rec- Supei
tors of said company, at Marietta in the territory afcr;- York
said, * ill receive a deed of the said five shares, or rights EWb<
The application maybe made personally or by an :.gent, tj 3 ™;
but proper documents mnft be produced to prove tie . n( ,
claimant or claimants the legal heirs or representative o
thefaid Jones. . India
n.b. As it is not known in what country the perio Lon „
or persons interested re&de, it will be an of bcnevoleflce
in eVery Printer in America and Europe, who inall miert ai
thisadvertifement in his 4-4 a
In behalf of the dire&ara of the Ohio Company, 1 : > 4-4 f.
RUFUS PUTNAM. 4 . 4 4
Marietta, May 20,1796. , [June J 3awqw 6-4 1
UNITED STATES,
Pennsylvania District, y Quih
Notice is hereby given,
I Ginp,
THAT pu:fuant to aWrittomedireded, from the ho- Ind is
norable Richard Peters, Esquire, Judge of the Di- Men 1
stria Cou't ot- the United States in and for the M
nia Diftridl,
Will be e%pofcd to Sale,
at the Cuftom-Houfe. on Monday, the 15th day of Au
gust, 3 Bags of COFFEE \ 1
' 1 Bbl. SUGAR x \ !
1 1 Half do. do. ingabc
2 Do. do. TAMARINDS t!on , 0
1 K«gs do. eat J
• » Bags of Sugar and " on '
Do. Coffee j ° n « l
- The fame having been libelled against. profecnted, and :r
' ; condemned as forfeited, in the said court- !
WILLIAM NICHOLS, MarfhaJ. heufe
f ! Marfhil's Office, Jti'v. the"o^l
V t c , trees.
d 1< or Sale, beinfc
A LARGE ELEGANT AND WELL FINISHED
Three-story Brick Houfc, joi 3
(The late refi lence of General Walter Stewart) ~~
WITH a LOT of GROUND thereunto belonging, (J
the weft fide of Third-street, near Union-street will b
containingin'front 32 feet, and in depth 100 feet, to an Weft!
alley leading into Union-street. The house is 32 feet front filling
\c and 50 feet deep ; the several rooms contained in it arc fi.iQ
large, commodious, and completely finifhed; the two firft
(lories are eaph 13 feet high; thtre are 20 mahogany Cos"
doors in the bouse ; a geometrical flaircafe, with mahoga
-- ny rails and a good lky-light. The kitchen is in the cell
is- ar, which is spacious and convenient, and finifhed with an
oven, stew-holes and pantHes, a fer-tfr.nts' hall and large
wine-cellar adjoining theAitchen, in'front of which is an
area in which there is a pump The yard is vaultid. „
Communicating with the said building is a neat three-story 1
brick.hokfe, on the north fide of Union-street, contain- i £
I ing 30 feet front liy 20 feet deep; the lower part of which
is at present occupied as a compting-houfe, and the upper " nd
of
part divided into \vell*finifhed large chambers. Thishoufe j
may at a smalL expenfp be con/v *rted into a convenient
dwelling : The street door is very handsome, and the front , ~
ijoid baclc have Venetian window-shutters. Adjoiningthe £
fact houfc, upon the lot belonging to the firft, are credled
bathing-rooms, &c. There are likewise very good coach
house and o_able« finifhed equal (or nearly so) with any in a^QU
the city, on a lot containing on Union street 30 feet, and 3 am
Lte iin depth on the wall fide of said alley 5 a feet. There are as
» good cellars unde* the whole of the buildings, and a wine j
room over part of the (table, with a hay-loft over the re- c j o at
mainder. For further particulars enquire of t_: n
EDWARD BONS ,LL Sc Co. haye
At their Office No. 64 Dock-street. between Walnut & Pear
eo llrects.
6th month 24th, 1796
™ ~ FOR SALE,
he A very Valuable Eft ate, No
>he /DIALLED TIVITTENHAM, lituate in the ®
o j- township of Upper Derby, and county of Delaware,
! 7 1-2 miles from Phiiad-lphia, and half a mile from the
[ e( j new Western road: containing 230 acres of excellent land,
j 45 of whidhare good watered meadow, 90 of prime wood
land, and the reft arable of ths firft quality. There are Fro
j on thepremifesagood two story brickhoufe, with4rooms
'j on floor, and cellars under the whole, with a pump-well Q
of excellent water in front; a large frame barn," stables, Oi
10ft ot her convenient buildings; a smoke-house and stone th«
fpring-hosfe ; tw® good apple orchards, and one of peach- nur
ieli ■ -'* fields are all in clover, except those immediately eac
I under tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advantage qaa
of water in each of them, which renders it peculiarly con- ny
t venient for grazing. son
' • The Puliation is pleasant and healthy, and from the high Do
cultivation of the land, the good neighbourhood, and the ;
vicinity to the city, it is very suitable for a gentleman's uni
and countr >'fir
■ r The foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Harman,
dcceafed. and offered for sale by r» ;
and Mordecai Lewis,
cat Oil. 9. eo.] Surviving Executor. re J
Jfe! Lottery and Broker's Office,
lifli- N Q 6± South Second street, —
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery No. 11, are now rea
dy for sale, a Check Book kept for the examination
of Tickets, and Prfee* paid, without deduction.
The Subscriber solicits the application of the Public or
any ot his friends who wi(h to purch fe or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange, or Notes, Houses, Lands, * r
Lotts or Merchandize of any kind, or to obtain Money . e
on deposit of property. As
WILLIAM BLACKBURN, f
Late 4gent for the Canal Lottery Company. pi
Shares an Tickets in the late Newport Long
Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery examined; a
complete lift of all the prizes having been received at
>' & this office.
June 6. w&s
& Asjhcton and fames Humphrey*, I
CONVEYANCERS, al
HAVE removed their office to No. 61, Walnut-street, a :
next door but two to the corner of Deck-ftrect' c:
where all INSTRUMENTS IN WRITING are drawn at h
a moderate charge, with care, accuracy and difyateh. I v
They lii>ewifje buy and fell Real Estates upon commif I v
hick- f lons > ant ' procure' Money upon Loan on good fcCuritV. r
The bufir.efs of an ATTORNEY AT LAW and NO ( A
RY PUBLIC is also tracfafted at tlie said office as usual t
by ASSHETON HUMPHREYS. *
N. B. Good Notes discounted.
My 5- eo6w
Infurancecomp.ofthe ftate.of
of the Pennsylvania.
e'r bis The Direilors have declared a dividend of sixteen dol
hcr oil lars ou c:rch lhare ot thc ca pital of said company, for the
retted ,no,l,hs which will be paid to the stockholders or
Who- theil T e p?elefitatives on every dav after the joth
re re
penfa- • S. W. Fi/her,
*'' Secretary.
14 w Aug lift 1. djof-
GEO-RGE Dobscw, c | S (-T
T JEGS leave to inform the Sto-e-Keener, ,n^Town W
•3 Country, that he has removed from Mi.kct-
N°« 2C, south Third-itreet,
where he is opening, a Large fend Elegant AlTor.ment of .he A ,
undermentioned articles—viz. due.
Superfine London Cloths and Kerleymcics,
Yorkfhirc second Do. Do.
Exilic do. do.
MiK'd and Blue Coatings
Flannells, «Scc.
Manchcller Printed. C"U5.' - "oes,
London CHin'z Jato,
Blue and ditto Furnitures,
India ditto,
LoneClfchs, Colt.es, B.fts., Bat'illa»&Cotijevrems,
4-4 q-8 5-4 6-<t Superfine India Book Mutlins,
ayd q-3 India .Kook Handkcr_hic>s,
4-4 and 5-8 Scotch ditto,
4-4 & 6-4 o'ain do. Muslins, 1
4.4 & 6 4 British Jaconeis, '
6.4 Britilh Checks and Stripes,
4-4 India do. do, do- -re r
4-4 ditto Chilloes, Madras Handkerchiefs, &c. 16,
A large alToitmcnt of figur'd and plain Muflinets, 3J.,
Quilnngs, Dimities, and Striped Nankeens,
Fancy Waiftcoatings, ; -50,
Ginp.hams of the firll Quality, fubjefl to Drawback,
India Nankeens, . N.
Men's White and coloured Silk (lockings. T; r !,
• May 9 let
To be fold, «rpr
A PLANTATION, in 'hetown of Woodbury, coun- «>yjj
ty of Gloucester, aad ftiteoT New-Jerky, contain- "
in-about one hundred and fifty acres ; a fuitafcfe' proper- | vate
tion 01 which is woodland and improved meadow. A | 4wo
ereat part of the arable land is in a high state 01 cultiva- j ' r " n '
tion, and very natural to the prodmflion of R eel c '°^ r - 1
On fait plantation there is a genteel two-(lory brick hou.e, •
{ with four rooms on a floor, and a good dry c<':lar linden c
the whole ; together with a barn, corn-cribs and carriage- j ™
heufe- Ihe garden is large, and contains a good collec- , nc
tion of the bed kinds of grafted ana mocuUtcd fruit trees ; , tne
_ the orchard consists of aboK t three hundred grafted apple- Vj>,«
trees. Any person inclined to purchase said preraiics, may ; "j
be informed of the terms by applying to ' j r
Andrew Hunter., j V ter
July 29 - * r :'-urn
__—— — — ; ' i drav
On Monday next, 25thinft. ( July,) the i
c Will be landed at Soui'h ttreet wharf, the cargoes ot Superb, '1 e '
n Weft Indian and lfabdla, from Jamaica and Havanna, con- Wgj
u ' na.n K of 3re
I Molafles in Hogsheads, of
iy Coffee in hogsheads, barrels & ba^s,' ™
*- FCR SALE BY | . .
PETER BLIGHT,
in
re Who for lale, a fe
> n A quantity of Jamaica GINGER, r
r "; Pimento & j, n - jS
jjjl Cocoa, J Cor
__ And is® boxesHarobro 1 "WINDOW GLASS, 7by g, will | i;iv
f I>e fold cheap. dra
nt July 20 diot & tuth & j tot cau .
Mr I " th*
h= FIFTY DOLLARS REWARD.
cd -q AN away from the fubferiber living near Church •
h- Hill. Qu'en - nns County in the State of Maryland' J^ n
' n : aliout thefirlt of January laft.ablack negro man,named ° f
nd Sam, about thirty years of age, 5 feet Bor 9 inches high,
* re has a crooked finger on one hand, and one leg and foot
lue smaller than the other, somewhat round-lhouldered, his
re " cloathing unknown. Any person who will secure or
bring said fellow home, so that 1 may get him again lhall ry
have the above reward with reasonable charges. 1
car WILLIAM JACOBS. en t
Jurre 4. " iawim, alfi
To-Morrcw will- bs fiublifhed, —
No. I, 11, andjll, (No. 1 embcllilhcd with a Aiperh En
graving, representing thefirft introduction of the Maid
of Or leans -to Charles VII, and N6. 3 with an ele
ir ®' gant and highly ficifhed Head of Henry IV, from an
j original painting) of the
HISTORY OF FRANCE,
are From the earliest times until the conclusion of the pre
anis sent war.
well QUCH gentlemen as wish to receiyp this work in vo
iles, Olumes will be attended to by fignifying their wiih to
one th« Publilhers and paying the firfl volume in advance, 25 _
ach- numbers making a volume, at three-Cxteenths of a dollar
tcly each. To gentlemen of the Trade or others \vho t:ke
:age qaaatities, a liberal allowance will be made—orders for a
con- ny quantity of copies add reded 50 A. & J. G. Hender- T
son, at Messrs. Bioren and Madan Printers, back of No. 77
liigh Dock-Street will be carefully attended to. c<
the Subscriptions will be received at the pre/it& rate
lan s until the middle of September, to those who <uiifh to sub
scribe after that time the price will be advanced.
"au, *x* Printers of Neiuf-paper* throughout the {foiled
Statel <who would xuijh to encourage this undertaking by
, receiving fubferiptions ivil/ please atj-vertife this in, their
>r. refpeftive papers and transmit the number of fubferibers 2
on or before the icjtb. September.
Augufl i. mw&fjt.
rea- Mr. FRANCIS, 4
" ,pn [Of the New Theatre)
if or I 'AKES this opportunity of returning thanks to his
tock, Scholars and to the public. Mr. Francis intends, ;
ands, Wls re turn frotn Maryland, to open a pubjic aca- 1
oney ,^ em y dancing, upon a plan entirely new. He \
natters himfclf that his attention to his pupils hi
therto renders any promises of conducing his future i •
♦ schemes on the molt liberal and ftria«ft terms, of pro- i '
V. priety. tcually unnecellary.
Long jY. B. Private tuition as ufuil.
:d ; a June 3
red at w
Twenty Dolors Reward.
* RAN f wa y this morning from the Subscriber, living
|,J , ' in the county of Monmouth, New-Jtrfey, a remark
ably black Negro Man, named BEN—about 40 years of
street, age, 5 feet 9or io inches high, flout made, bald on the
Arret, "own of his head j had on and took with him a grey
lWn at nomefpun coating coat and jacket, a brown cloth coat
tch.— with a black collar, homespun tow shirts and trowfers
mm if with other shirts and fmait cloaths wbich cannot be inu
■itf._ fcraatcd. He is a complaisant, artful and deceitful fellow.
O TA- Whoever wilt take up and secure the'faid Runaway so
! usual that his owner m y him again, lhall have the above re-
EYS. ward, and reasonable charges paid if brought home.
d6w Tu!v El 'J ha Lawrance.
. July 18— Aug., §lw
eof "FORTY doIIarTIEWIRTV
K , Ran
for the (J N ths soth A P ril 'aft. a NEGRp^ A N, named
ders or V , J ACK ' a " e< J about 30 year 6— 5 feet 6 inches
e loth g • thc fingers on one of hisj)^ 5 vcr r nlu -<h contra^-
Whoevcr will return b*^" e g TO to the fubferiber, liv
' in g in Saffex ° f Dciawa re, fnall receive the
tary. above reward. / RALPH ROBINSON
liot. Aug. 1 j "
r
City cf W:r.hia^ron.
SCHEME '?/'the LO rn-utY, NalJ,
ton tkf. iKcaarsmr. PF. rm
feperal CITY.
A magnificent \ 20,000 debars, & 50,1:3 a
dwelling-hoiif'e, ) cnA jS-coo, ire >
I ditto i?." 0 " & J S' OOQ 4 °' oo,}
" 1 ditto 15,000 & cash i Sf W>q .?0,000
1 ditto 19,030 & fiu'n 10,00? 20,000
1 ditto ?,000 & c»th 5,"00 1 ■■>,»<■*
1 ditto v.ooo & cash 5, 000 I ~003
I cam prize of
ado. f,oeo each, we, • ioy.uo
10 do. 1,000 - - J;'-. 00
40 do. S°° • • I 0"'
00 do. 100 - • I^oqo
400 do. s=> ' " lO, ' ?a °
4co do. IS • - -± '•
* , ~ -.0 OO
1,000 <10.
TO - 1J 0,000
15,000 no. 10 J
t6,7.-59 Prizes.
33,461 Blanks.
- 50/100 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400 000
N. B. • To favour those who may take a quantity of
Tickets,'the prrae of 40,000 dollars will be the l,\st drawn
ticket, and th,e 30,000 the last hut one:
And approved notes, fe.curing payment m either money
or prizes in ten days alter drawing, will be received for
any number not less than 30-ticke^s.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of thepri
vate buildings to be ®33tcd in the City of Wafhinjton—
I ! Two beautiful designs are already fitted for the entire
I fronts on t .v 0 of the public fquaren; from these prawings
~ ; it i=propofed toerecl two centreand four corner buildings
is soon as pofiible actor this lottery is fold, and to convcy
— I tiiem, when complete, to the fortunate adventursrs, ill
1 ' the inner defcrihed in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery.
A nett deduction of five per cent, will be made to defray
. I the necessary expenses of printing, &c. and the furphu
1 wiUbe made a part of the fundintended fw the National
y : Univeriity, to he erected within the city of Washington,
j The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
j fold off.- - The money prizes will be payable in thirty days
> after it is finiihad ; and any pr zes for which fortunate
t numbers a(e not produced within twelve monthsafur the
drawing is closed, are to, be considered. as gi»en towards
) the funS for the Uaiverfity ; it being determined to fettU
' I the whole bufmefs in a year from the ending of the draw
' ®gi and to take up the bonds given as security.
The real securities given for the payirient of the Prizes,
are held by the Prahdeat and two Direfiocs of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued, at more .than hajf tfee a
5 mount o't the lottery.
' 1 The twenty tour gentlemen who hy appointment of
! the late CommiiTioiiers aflifted in the management of the
Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake this arduous talk
a second time on behalf of the public ; a figficient num
ber of these having kindly accepted.it is hoped that the
friends to a National University and the other federal, oh
je&s may continue to favor the design.
fey accounts received from the different parts of the
Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets
111 have been sent for sale, the public are assured that the
drawing will'fpeedily com nerwe, and that the cart and »
caution unavoidably ncceffary to insure a fafc disposal of
— th« tickets, has rendered the fufpet>(ion indilpenfahle.
SAMU&L BLODGH7.
ch •§» Tiekets may be had at the Bank us- Columbia ;of
James Weft, &, Co. Baltimore ; of. Peter Oilman, Boston ;
ed John Hopkins, Richmond > and of Richard-, Wells,
,-h Cooper's Ferry.
bi» UnLverfity of Pennfyl'vania,
or ' July 16, 1796. jS§|
all r-pHE Summer Vacation will take place on Mouday next,
A the 18th inft.andcortimiefor Four week?. — Thediffir.
ent Schools wilhthe fcveral Tutors will accordingly ft*
. alfemble on Monday, the *slh5 l h day of;
— By the Faculty, Wm, Rogers, Secy,
' ' ' ■— T*
Jo- For sale by the fubferibers,
" D .IN PENN-STR E,ET,
'e" 130 quarter Chests frefh Hylon Tea ;
an i®o ditto ' do. frefh Souchong Tea ;
300, Boxes China, containing I'mjl] tea setts of 44
pieces;
>re- 4 00 pieces Bandanoes.
Willings Ss 3 Francis, s
to January 30 3taw..
45 —*r
Hat
< ke Lottery
JT** T?OR raising fijc thoufcnd fix hundred and fixty-feyea
i dollars and fifty cents, by a dedudlion of fifteen per
cent from the prizes, and not two a prize, viz.
I Prize of 5000 dollars is dollars 5000
J, 1 iogo 1000
i 500 -s°°
. , c 400 toco
"i 10 X9O 1"°
sb S o 495 0
hm 20 i 25 sooo
bers JOOO , 0 40,000
5 Last drawn numbers of iopo dollars each, 5000
;t.
2332 Prizes. 44>45°
4018 Blanks.
0 v; s I 635° Tiekets at Seven Dollars each, » 44)45°
, u ! By order of the of the Society for eftablilh
ca' ' UfefiilManufactures, the fuperintend;-its of the Pat
r_r i er.'cn Lottery hwe rcquefted the Managers to oiler the
~e foregoing Scheme to the public, and have dire&ed them
3 l ~ to refund r.he money to those persons who have purchased
Jture the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
P ro " in this Lottery.
The lottery has actually commenced drawing, and w.nl
continue until fiuifhed. A lift: of the Blanks and Prizes
?w may be seen at thr office ol William S)ackburn, No. 64
— south Second street, who will give information where tick
ets may be procured.
i- • Dated this 17th day of June, 1796.
CVMMING, 7
arsof ? JACOB R. > MaiUgers.
n the JON4THAN RHEA, )
1 grey June 18 ec >
coat, — —r
To be S.old,
el low. At No. 128, North Second-Street, and by fever al <f
'ay, so the Apothecaries in this City.
>ve re- 'T'R ANSFERS to remove pains and ioflaia^*
tions body, as secured to D r. ELl^
-P parent, with instruments and dircftio/ " c "
1 * ceffaryi^h e practice. This mode of treatment is
S 2w laiJin relieving pains in the head, face, brca'.t,
-—«— stomach, back, rheumatisms, recent gout*,/# c '
T\/ Notwithrtandiog the utility of this pra£l:ce/' r ' s not P r ""
fumed but there are cafcs in ,which this every other
remedy may sometimes fail. J
lamed Ju " e lß ' ' Wa
inches .''" 1 " ■«. mm ■■ ■*' ,m ' l
)t r a sf 1 — J *
PRINTED BY TOJ/N FEN NO. v *
r, liv- T\T /
ve the -ISO. I IJ
o}i. CHHSNUT-s/itf T.
[Pri«c Eight Dollys per A®"®.'