.•' / /
of the tEtutctjfbtatts, & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
E * A""
■\ t umbex ia«3-3 . MONDAT EVENING, SEPTEMBER 26, 1796. _ X,
For Sale, (
The SLOOP
industry, For
Burthen about 700 bbls. a good vef- 1
fel, and will be ready to take in a car- g e j
■j in two or three days. Also,
FOR. SALE,
A few hMs. ANTIGUA RUM, received by
if id oop, and now landing *' Norton's wharf. Apply to Rec,
| ' 'fptOMAS GREEVES,
Seyt. »4- Walnut-street. aO Tr
t or Charter, idi
Jpk. The Ship Dominick Terry, JDj
J*M» De Hart, niafter: an excellent iDi
«3J£iSAiS£S£Jvefrel, of about 3000 barrels burthen. Fot
Jefe & Robert Wain.
September it. l!_ 1
" For NEW-YORK,
Tbc Sh 'f LIGHT HOItSE, XT'
V 3 few days, and will take freight i- A
very low. Apply to, jqs£PH ANTHONY, & Co. hew
September 40.
For Sale, Freight or Charter, sa
The Ship General Walhington, So
Now discharging her cargo from i-ivcr- Ba
uool at Rod's Wharf—Site is a iaft fail- L<
> n g Ihipi 3n d may be sent to sea at a small jj,
CXpence, having been docked and refitted in Liverpool. D
Apply to Si
Kearny Wharton. x
I Who has for sale on board said (hip, U
A few thousand Bushels Salt and Coal. j' r
Sept. rg- <6 —
j-~ ' For Charter,
The Danifo Barque Besevsntura,
Samuel Stub, mister,
!' jSs3Sui£i£sssA good vessel, of about two hundred JL
tons burthen. JF.SSE & ROBERT WALN. 11
I~— — C
FOR LONDON,
The capital (hip CERES,
! fail foonFor freight or passage
pply t0 DAVY, ROBERTS Sc Co. or
John Vaughan, 1
September I®. Front-Erect. . ;
FOR SALE, wee
The ftiip STAR, "j
VjlcSh&frJ John Vannxman, Master,
T YING at Walnut-street wharf, PhiUdel-
I ' phia built, of live oak and cedar, will
srrv about 3100 barrels, i. two years old, and in corn
pleat order to receive a cargo—For terms apply to
' THOS.& JOHN KETLANIV j,
tykp-hh"*- said veittlt cargo—rrmfiftißg-Of.— _
Wine and Porter bottle*,
Window G!afs, 6 by 8 to 16 by IS.
Pipes in boxes
Eprthea-Ware in crate-. "»
Grindftoncs, Coals, Whiting, &e.
Aug. 29 —
New-England Rum,
In hogfhesds,
Welfo's best Boston Chocolate,
And
HYSON-SKIN TEA, in quarter chests,
FOR SALE, £T
A. MARPLE tfISR. W.MORRIS,
No. 60. Dock-street. _
Sept. X - co6t ~ .
John Whitefides & Go.
Have for SaU,
Venetian Red,
Spanish Brown,
White Leid, ground in oil; t ]
Shot, No. I, », 3• 4, 5- !)
London Porter, in caflcs and bottles. ( -
Green Copperas. L :
Several ernes of Queens Ware, in setts, with delert
ditto c«mpleat. e
Blistered Steely- —-
German ditto. , ,
Sept- »I. dlw „ r
.....' — ■ )
Waftiington Lottery.
The Twenty-second & I'wenty-third Days' Drawing of
the Walhington Lottery, No. 3, are received at the office
No. 134, Msrket-ftreet, whfre tickets miay be examined.
N. B. Information given where tickets in all the other
lotteries may be procured.
Sep member 13. 1796. dt
Washington Lottery, No. 2.
THE twenty-second and twenty-third days drawing
are arrived at th« office No. 147. Chefnut-ftreet,
between Fourth and Fifth ftr-ets, where they will con
tinue reguhrly to arrive, during the term of the drawing.
This is mentioned to the public, t« preclude the neceiiity
of advertifnig daily, as usual, being attended with great
"cTunl and other I.ottery Tickets may be had at the
above office, where all tranfa&ions in the line of a Bro
ker are promptly attended to.
Thomas Noble.
d \
Sept. 13.
Thomas Ryerion
HAS ]uft reteiveij, by the ffiips Molly and Hamburgh
Packet from I.iverpool, ard tne L.Mit norse from
Bristol, and is now opening for fat", at his store No.
177, Market-street, an cxtenfive aflortment of
Ironmongery, Cutlery, Hardware
and Saddlery.
The &ip Caroline, now on htr pafiage from Liverpool
to Philadelphia, brings the remainder of his fall impor-
m N n B At the above store may be Kad a few elegant
Mahogany Cr.fes for Table Furniture; alio, a good af
for.ment of the best kinds of Kmves ana Fonts.
Sept. 13- —
Wants a Place,
AS A WET NUR&E,
A healthy YOUNG WOMAN, with a Freft Breast
rf Milk. Apply at tUe Office No 134, Marktt-^reet.
Sept; 23.
nankeens,
Of the firfi quality, FOR SALE BT, '
R.D. and J AS. POTTER. A t h r
For ariy quantity above Five Thouland Piec-s, a !i
---beral credit will be given. R. & J. p.
September 13. T. tf Eigh't
1 — — . , the Sour
r French Goods.
* Received by the Sally, Mitchell, from Havre-de-
Grace, * -—
-'l Cafe"' * 4^es * SHOES of all colors forts and fucs Sept.
1 Ditto v7hite and colored Silk STOCKINGS
1 Ditto Fine LAV.'N
I Ditto best fine CAMBRIC A
it I Ditto Ladies'beft shammy and Grenoble Gloves
For Sale by THOMAS & JOHN KETLAND. Melfrs.
Aug. »4 S r - on- "°
. ° 1 PofTei
' Wm. HOLDERN ESSE,
No. 7 <5 High Street, j * pnl
HAS received, by the latest arrivals from Europe and j
the East Indies, a well felefted aflortment of Silk
Mercery, Linen Drapery and Haberclafftery Goods; >vhkh 1
he will lell, Wholesale and Retail, on the lowest terms ; —'
AMONGST WHICH ARE, able. ,
— Some fine India muslins embroidered with gold and fflver Aug
Superfine Book, Jaconct, and Mulmul ditto
Do do do do Handkerchiefs
Some extra black taffeties,luuftringsan<i p..,
r- Bandano Handkerchiefs ( ,
Long and Ihort Nankeens
Engiifh Mantuas of the firft quality rp
Damask table linen and napkins, very fine q
Silk Hosiery, an elegant afforttnent q
Thead arW cotton do
Umbrellas —green silk, oil'd do. and do cleth
t French cambrics, very fine
Irilh Linens, do. &c. &c. June 14 § jj
70,000 Pieces Nankeens, r
Of the left quality and on rtafonable ttrms, For
LA * > rOR SALE BY AUg
Philip Nicklin Iff Co.
re( j -Aupuft 16. dtf_
The Cargo of the Polacre Independent, rhe c
CAPTAIN CATHCART, from Alicant and Lis
bon, landing at the fubfciibers wharf— \
18 Pipes of Brandy '/l
18 Bales of Spanilh wool
■.„ e 3 do. of Anaifeed v
7000 Buihels of best Lisbon Salt
or io Boxes of Lemons
For sale by . * WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
ALSO, J
- Seventy Hogfhcads of prime JAMAICA SUGARS,
by the fbip Dominick Terry, Capt. De Ilart,
from Kingston.
Sept. 13. , d j u .
» CABLES, J
0 a _ From 16 tof £ inchee, for sale by
"Jeremiah Warder,
Jttly jr § No ri north Third-street.
F&R SALE, j
WINE, London particular Madeira, 4 years old, I
in pipes and hogfhea Is ' _£
s Claret, genuine old, in cases j
§ Gin, in pipes, from Holland
Earthen Ware, in crates
Basket Salt, inhogfheads I a
Shot, Nos. 6, 7, 1 and 9 ta
Bar Lead, Red and white dry lead iX
, Steel, German and Riiflia, in barrels bein
Anchors, cables, junk, hunting, tarpolin canvas, .of t
Tin plates—An invoice Stationarv. by ■ into
THOMAS & JOHN KETLAND. ' cor f
A, July $ pro
' ■■■— to a
Lottery and Brokers Office,
Nt>. 64, Smith Skccnd stxket.
•""PICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 2, for fait— l
X Check Book for examinatiou —and prizes paid in
the late lottery. .„ .
Check Books kept for examination and regiftermg, for
the City of Wafliington, No. 2, and Pattefon Lotteries, Jy
hoth of which are liow drawing—information where £
tickets are to be had, and pr.i;s exchanged lor undrawn 0 f
, . ; .Jckets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New- anc ,
ic ' en Port Lpug-Wharf, Hotel and Public-School Lottery, lor poll
examination. , ® ,lc
The fubferiber foHcits the application of the public kep
and his friends, who wish to pnrchafe or fell Bank Stock, out
" Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands, ties
&c. or to obtain money on depolit of property.
in of Wm. Blackburn.
■ office Philadelphia, Augu/! 18, 1796- mth
ts For bale,
jf The Tipie of a Negro Man,
"Who is a good Cook. Enquiie at No. 109, South
Water-Street. .
■awing
fc'on-' FOR SALE,
iwing. A Complete Font of brevier,
:ceffi;y fT'N't-rely new , and yet unopened. The weight of this
1 great XL font is about 3li">- is from the of
Wilson & Sons, Glasgow, and will be fold atcoit & charges,
at the Also for Sale, a pjir of Super Royal Chafes. Fo
a bro- Enquire at the Office of the Gazette of the Lnitde
Statse, H9 Chefnut-ftreet. Aug. 19 §4W
(g m , „———
Diflfolutiori of °
Partncrfhip between ROBERT c ,
I D AVID MEREDITH, undei the fi r m of AN DREWS „(
lburgh and MEREDITH, being d.ffolved. All pcifon. who are c ,
s from indebted to, or who have claims agamft ibe said houfe,.are
re No. requested toapply forfe«le^ ft
No. 86, So. Whaivet.
' are Sect.6.l UL tl
WANTED, «
rerpooi Middle-Aged WOMAN, who can be well recom- ;
,mP ° r * mended, to take charge of the entire management of
1 . /hiUrer— Such a person will jneet with suitable encou- 1
ITS- '-ar of a place, by applying to the f ,
printer ot tlvis Gazette. mwf '
Sept. 14- - <
To be disposed of,
THE time of a healthy NEGRO WOMAN, who 1
1 has between four ami five years to ferye: She
can be recommended for her lobricty and honcfly. For
particulars enquire at No. 1.32., CliefiiUt-fti:Mt r
d 3 Augusta. - -
For Sale,
(In an excellent Ctuation for buftnefi,)
A three-Hory brick House and Lot of p )h)e
Ground, Georgia
Eighteen ftet front and twenty-five feet in depth, on Carolina
the South fidi of Market near Front-ftrtet, nbvv inpoflef- Sherry ?
fion of Samuel Read. Ravens 1
Apply to ludioSa
Israel Pleafants, or sewing :
Charles & Joseph Pleafants. j .s >P t.
Sept. 13. dtf j ""
For Sale,
A Three story BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnnt I 13s ,
street, between Front and Second streets, in which j 100 (
MelTrs. James Calbjaith & Co. have for many yean £and ! ?oo ]
now do) carried on business. j ]
— PoifeHion will be given in one month, or sooner. j ■
For terms appl} to WILLIAM BELL, or
HECTOR CALBRAITH. j
aprll n. § J an " ;
A Book-Keeper,
z \ x Clerk's place is wanted by a permit properly quali- J
Vv fitd, and whose charatSer will be found unexception- 1 HC
able. Apply to tie Printer.
- Aug - 11 —— Lot
Dutch Goods, n b
108 Received by the Pennsylvania, from Aaflerdam. I [[_
GIN, in pipci J
Morlaix* J By
Ticklenburgs > , In Bales
Ofnaburgs J
S, } Stripes, in cafe, J
Hollands \ DUCK, in ditto jT n ,
Ravens 3 i x u i
t Bedticks, in ditto
S itl >Ut[o , 1 Tl« re
Platilles 5 1 amo!
For Sale by THOMAS W JOHN KETLAND. be „
Aug 19 1 linii
Sales of India Goods, J _!!!!
~ The C»rgo of the ftiip Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cal-j G.
catta and Bengal,
Lif- CONSISTING OF I
A Large and general afTortment of Bengal and Madras I > , .
COT TON and SILK GOODS. , J
AMONG WHICH AiE I Al
A variety fine worked and plain Mit/lins, i
Doreas, ts'c. Also,
• A Quantity of Excellent Sugar, g •
In boxes and bags—and BLACK PEFPERi
nq For Sale by
Willings & Francis, Au
No. II Penn Street. j —-
June 8 5 1
— g
JUST A RRIVE D y from Lisbon,
And ffcr Salt by the Subscribers, j «
Lisbon Wine, r.
:t. j In pipes' and quarter-calks; I / ddi
1 riXio iiufheJs Lilbon Salt. I" ri
I " 7effe & Robert Wain.
old, I J M If By 1
| Sept. 10. fl v- j 7
iAt a special meeting of the Board of Di- . c
\ rear-1 for ejlablijhing uses d Manufactures, holden __ c
j at Paierfon, 'July 8, 1 • j II
RESOI.VED, That a special meeting of. the Stock- 1
holders of the Society be called on the firit Monday, A
being thi third ay of OAober next, at Paterfcfti, by ten -
nvas, of the clock of the fame day ; then and there to take I
into coufideration the propriety of dissolving the said Fine
D. '• corporation, agreeably to the law in such cafe snade and
$ provided—and the Stockholders are earnestly rcquefted 1 Plai
.— to attend the said meeting in person or by proxy. Cori
■. Augufl 47 dtjothO I Ditt
1 Mui
dc—a DUTY ON CARRIAGES. I A p fi
lid in
g, for Notice is hereby Given,
teries, •-r-'HAT agreeably to an aft of Congreft of the United s
where I's t at e t of America, paired at Philadelphia, the 28th day
drawn G f , 7 q6 ; laying duties on Carriages, for the convey- j
New- ance'of perloos, and repealing the former acts tor that pur- j
y, for pose.—That there (hall be levied, dSlkfted and paid, up° n j— --
all carriages for the conveyance of persons, which lhall be j \f<
public kept by or for any person, sot his or h*r own use, or to let
Stock, out to hire, or for the conveying of palfengers, the feveraldu. .
Lands, tics and rates following, to « n
For and upoß every Coach, 1 j dols. j «rai
upon cvCTy Chariot, 1 a doU. j we:
n. upon every Post Chariot, 12 dols,* j hoi
mth " upon er<ry Poll Ciiaife, 1 a dais. I yar
uport every Phaeton, with or without top, g dols I qu:
upon every Coachee, 9 dols. | cha
upon other Carriages, having panne 1 work above, I p r :
with binds, glalfesor curtains, 9 dols. j or
c upon four wheel carriages, having framed post. and j
* topi with fteelfpiings, 6 dols.
upon four wheel top Carriages, with wooden or iron _
' fp»ings or jacks, 3 dob.
upon curriclcs with tops, 3 dols.-
upon cliaifes w.th tops, 3 doll. I I n
upon chairs with tops, 3 dols.
. dron sulkies with tops, 3 dols.
° r upon other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols. I
lery of u (wr) wheel carriages, with (Icel or iron fprmgs, j
har S"' 3 dols.
For and upon all other two wheel carnages, • dols.
Unitde up,>n everyfour wheel carnage, havingfiamed posts 1
J4W 2nd tops, and reftiug upon wooden spars, 1 dols. 1
The Coiuaors of the Revenue of the firft hirvey of the K
DiftriaofPeunfyWania, will attend daily, until the 30th day
of September next, for the purpose of .he du .«. on p
WS and r. rr ia?cs. atNo. 1 i?*in Race or SafTafraa street, in the City Ici
)REWS 0 f Philadelphia, at tlie house of Daniel in t e I
who are c ounlvo f Montgomery; ai.d at the house of Abraham Du- I
>ufe,.are , ijis £(■,, i n t he Coixity of Bucks; of which all perfobspof- I
felled of f«ch Carriages are desired to take notice.
t s v '„ , ' Notice is also given, it
'd 'tf TO .11 retail Iraler. in Wines, and foreign distilled spiri
tuous liquors, that licence, will be granted to tbemt<>ne li f,
ccnce for carrying on the business of retailing of W wes, in 4 1 d
fefs auantiiy, or in lefi quantities thi;i 30 gallons—and one
recom- . (<jf ca , r% , 1)? on the buOnels M letailtng Spirituous li
™ent of auors in less quantities than «o gallons, at the fame time and
e encou- J. , he f amc 'pi a ces, by the officers legally authorued to grant I ,
gto the (ucl, licences. WILLIAM NICHOLS, I
mwf - lnfpeftor of the Revenue of the firft survey J
— < of thediftriaof Pennfjlvama. | |
office of Ipfpeaion,at ?
N,. who Philadelphia, 2.lft July, 1796. 5 j
nV v' e ~ w J ,v -T E
7 " - 0r La A" APPRENTICE to the Prirting Bufinef:. |
feltf *P Ennjuire.at this Office. Au 2- 9
• •:
FOR SALE,
By N. and y. FRAZIER,
No. 95, S. Front-street,
Prkne Boston Beef, in barrels.
Georgia Cotton.
Carolina Rice and Indigo.
Sherry ?nd Teneriife Wines, ef excellent tjualiiy.
Ravens Duck.
I Indio iia idanno's.
| Sewing Silks, various colours.
| Coftahs and Gurrahs.
&«Dt. I 7. «***•
I _ . ———-
For sale by the fubkrihers,
IK P£hN-STREET,
J quarter Chests frelh Hyson Tea;
ISO ditto do. frefh Souchong Tea;
300 Boxes China, containing fmau tea setts of 4»
pieces;
4©o pieces Bandanoes.
Wiilings Iff Francis.
I January 30
FOR SALE.
. I PORT'WjNE, and
. 1 HOLLAND-GIN,of the firft qualities ra Pipes.
FRAUNCES and VAN RUED,
Brokers and Commission Merchants, No. 63,.50. 3d St.
Who discount approved NOTES of hand.
N: B. An APPRENTICE Wanted.
September t 4 . mwf
~ THIS DAT IS FUBLIStiSD,
By W. YOUNG, MILLS and Son,
Corner of Second and Che/nut firetts.
Price ix l-» cents, ,
The President's Address
To the People of the United States,
INtIUATIKO
1 Tlie rcfoluiion he h?s formed to de{Jiae being confide/ed
among the number of tixofc.rue v-;ru>ni a choice is ts
I be made, at the ensuing eleSiofl of _a Prgi'vdcM oi the
United States.
Sept. it). ws6
1-1 Great is Truth and mult prevail.
JUST PUBLISHED,
" And for sale at No- 41 CkeJ'iutflreet by J. OR V ROD,
An Apology for the Bible,
f ' By R. Wjtsox, d. t. f. jr. s.
Bifkop of Limdajf, &c. _ #
I Being a complete refutation of Paine s
Age of Re of on,
Aid the only anf«er to the Sccond Part. .
August 30. j dtf
I THIS BAY IS PUBLISHED,
By W. Young, Mills and Son,
*3 I [Price 50 cts. in boards,,62 i-» neatly bound]
lAn Apology for the Bible,
In a feri:S of i.etters,
Addrefled to Thomas P-fine, auihorof a book entitled
The Age ef Reason, part the ftcoUd, being an tf
-jTftization of true and fabuhuj fueologj. V .
By R. WATSON, D. D. Jt R. S. Lord Bishop cj
— Lar.iafT, 'and Regius ProfcfFor of Diviujty
in-U»e University of Cambridge.
den \J& " — ' U s -
India Tamboured Muflina.
\7n A f ma ' ! > hand A me ajfortmcnt of Muftins,
lake I VrZ.
said J Fine tamboured and Santipore Mullins, vai
and I patterns and prices,
fled plain 6-4 Jaconet.
Corded and cross-barred Muslin Sbawft.
0 Ditto ditto 6-4 and 4-4 Dorcat,
I Muslin Handkerchiefs, fine and coarse.
I Japan Muslins, and
A few picces extraordinary fine Long Cloths.
VOR SALE BY
Thomas Tingey,
, ■ No. 111, South Third-llrcet.
" ,ca I Sept. 19. tutf*f_
day £
ivey- TO BE SOLD,
P ur - That Neat and Convenient House,
! P h" "\T7"HEREIN th ~ inbferiber now lives. There are tour
0 let *V rooms on a floor : the house is two stories hieh
1 du. I with a good garret above : under the whoht is an excell
ent cellar, with a dry well, in which is a convenient
framed chamber for prefervingmeat, butter, &c. in warm
I weather. Attached to the house is a Stable for three
horses, hay-los , granary, and carriage-houfc, a wood
yard paved with stone, and a garden with foil of a fine
I» quality. An indisputable title will be made to the pur-
I chafei. For farther particulars apply to the fchferiber in
bove, I Princeton, or. in her absence to Thomas D. Johnfon,Ef<l.
, I or the rev. Samnel 9. Smith.
i and ANN WITHERSPOON.
! Princeton, Aug 14. lawtO
r iron | —
Plans of the city of Philadelphia,
j Including the Northern Liberties and diftrift of
South war k ,
Publilhed, and fold by
.rings, . BENyAMIN DAVIES,
No. 68, High street,"
I '■ (Price one dollar.)
1 posts THIS plan is 16 inches square, and has been en"!
2f h graved by one of the firft artists in the city, from a late
th dav » nd accurate survey. Purchasers a/e entitled to a pam
ties on phlet with each plan, giving " some account of the
ic City j city, its population, trade, government, See.
in the 1 July 10 tu&ftf ■
- Da- TAKE NOTICE.
0 * I s u bscriber intends to make application for a re-
I L newal of the following certificate, supposed to be
j loft 011 the passage to England in April 1794 ••
i fpiTi- I CerfHicate No. 10335, dated Ijth November, 1793,
one li I for i®jo dollars and 91 cents—Six per cent, domcftic
ts, in a j debt, a n the books of the Treafuryof the Unit«d States,
nd one in t [, c name 0 f the Hon. John Trevor.
uousli- I ROBERT BIRD, at John Warder's,
me and j Philadelphia, August JOth, 179.6. *tu*f6w
to grant I -— 1 —
WANTED,
Hurvev JOURNEYMEN BOOK-BINDERS,
I OOD ft«ady workmen will-tneet with cpnftant tm-
I U ployment.and good wages; by applying to JOHN
CURTIS, No. 43, North F.urth-ftreet.
——— J N. B. BOOK-BINDING in all iti different branches,
j CX ecutcd with neatnef® aQd dispatch. Public and private
ingfi I libraries repaired iathe ncatcA in 4 best mannrr.
, 1 September a©. 1 & 2-w
lFrom thi COLUMBIAN CENTINEL.
<c G9 thou and do tike-wife"
\\ EJACULATION,
To the Memory ,/ Mrs. G. APTHORP.
<5.', r f of my !ife ! thro' growing youth endeir'd,
in death beloved, in waning age revered—'
iv m 3 S uar dian Angel's form divine,
t " rl^ dayß thy melt ing mercies shine ;
w .', v *h a " charm thee, and each scene renew,
•Vith tints refle&ed, and with touches true.
«^ h! !f°> r this b feaft the shades of MEMORY flow.
Whi ethtlitm sickens with unfated woe,
M hile iharp unkindnefs bends her'piercing frown,
1 O cut the deeply-wounded spirit dc>wn,
Each opening day, on morn's returning wing,
Shall to my foul, thy placid virtues bring :
i hat voice by every law of kindness ftfung, 1
I hat heart with warm afTeaion ever younir, !
Thoie cares unwearied e'en in life's dacline, (
That twin d their bhfs rounrt every joy of mine, t
v nence rose that smile, and whence that raptured gaze, c
■J 1 'f o '' was bounty, whose expreflion praise. r
Vi heri others, heedless of the Kurfting blow, ' ''
Saw the heart bleed, and bade the sorrow flow, ?
itelt thy love the wrongs of fate atone, f'
Reltore my hopes but make my grief its own,
>.or yet to onE were all thy cares confin'd, o
15ut pour d their stream on every fuffering mind-: I
Who rear d y.on Orphans with a parent's care ? I r.
Or ta U ght the hard oppreflbr's hand to spare* ?
U hen many a tear had »ora his cheek in vain, .
Who broke the pining captive's ponderous chain ? ol
~ —5 1 ? at tlle Vlew > a thousand voices join Ig l
I hme was the deed the godlike blefling thine." to
While on the flight of time these steps attend, nc
Oft may thy visionary ftide descend ;
Come, likethyfelf, with every native grace, I
the f ? rm '. a , nd fmo °th'«l the plea sing face wi
, "}y ftll | «ouch, with healing wing appear, I
Calm the quick sigh, and hush the impatient fear- I
Yet round thy child with fond protection move, ' P , C
And wake theeonverfe of maternal love— t! "
Give her, like thee, with virtue', heavenly ray, fix
To trace the defart of her future day, I wh
hf r w 'th patient silence to endure are
■ShffV* W j j f gnef : " 0r h°P e > nor time, can cure, fliii
She far divided from thy parting breath, m ,
Nor dosed the eye, nor fmooth'd tfie couch of death c
Yetmany a breast, W'th kind compassion fraught, S ' i,
Bore ihy best blessing on the wing of thought!
foreign hearts the sacred relic flow'd, J J
A foreign lijpJthe precious pledge beftow'd. J wer
But fliorli the hour, and soon the moment dies, I 100
Ere to thy throne the filial spirit flies, law
~l get each pang, each sorrow, and each ftrife, I Leo
That pierced with many a thorn the nerve of life • | 1 77
i aught to forgive, to pity, and to spare, I "
It pours on every wouiW the balm of prayer •
Plucks from the cruel heart its keen dlftrefs,
And feels the firft great bit fling is TO BLESS.
P.
* Per Tons have been relieved from prison, fby this
Ronnd° c hara(s\er) at the advance of many hundred I
pounds—and in one of the former wars of France, the I
ebta.ned the d.fmiflion of a relation from the Baflile, I 1
at l.he expense Offeven hundred and fifty pounds fter- altho
J and -
List ef Prizes and Blanks f,i the Washington hund
, Lvttery No. 2-
*sd Day's Drawinr, Sect, ir I
■ I to an
D ° ! " No - D ° l ?- iN". Da!,. No. Dot,, j '"f ''
* 36 1,840 s s«o ; ; 36,74 °,V
=74 isoga io o^ Q Li ' foj also t<
102 4 846 IJt 5«4 Th
454 ' 3 24, t 163 1 110 9.53 20 »s amc
588 l 6 9 l - Sl Hl cifela,
,l 5 " 5 7°35 >o 38175 a dut y
s ° I * lc6 134 10 615 10 anothe
389 .0 J $ fable f
403 10 ,8 9 ,0 - -804s taxed 1
43° 9 60 64 ,28 °hes ol
f 4 '? |16 4®7 8 93 988 .0 fanten
4076 lo 604 « 40076 - of that
S3' 10 >7033 10 91, 64? 33 Wl( h
5687 «□ ißeoi gß | the pas
I' 5 " 8 10 3°,55> 4«4'5 «o morals.
• q
995 »9®»9 3 x ßll 958 500 etSoFl
3 1 47' 364 43074 own acc
sol lo S °B7c 31001 xo * 5S votion t
B S b '5 007 008 10
7287 1. 21298 l 6 tQ
3 t J 3S Piedr
55. 6oti 330,1 3,7 ,0 The ta:
152 4«ooi
790 10 700 9 6 ™ amounti
9 2 9 10 46317 them lei
2,842 '° "S 5 35 - on the
» *;i n«» „»!< ..ddi.
' »0 3 i 5 943 10 3430g 10 country
100 84002 35397 401 St,II » ! '°
11284 St 10 -2 9 ? 883 tion, for
565 ®o 10 ,ain c!e g
" es, and a
23d Day's Drawing-lMonday, Sept. 19. invariabl
— besides b
• N '- Ih! '- No. Do!,. No. Del,. radishes;
I 6} 10 10 formeTly
'3»o 8?f IO 15370 10 7 ° H T
a ' 7B 9 >« « %.0 10 Moat B
994 «o 14037 754 5 g 6 Jbfs, by r
4378 10 830 891 10 682 The il
6°0 4 10 975 so 26678 4 ,,0 4 f
567 .5556 27086 42 ?. Jt 4 ~£? eS n<
Ci4s 10 16473 10 i 9 g s? g Thee?
376 59° 302 10 44026 10 •« the exi
• 64« '77-8 3 '486 f 3 3 0 ZaA ,he '
t)«>t jo 18686 62c ~so' paper mo
7585 »o 8o 5 a 93 2 4 The la
99'7 19018 io 30289 849 termed a
'o.6 4 7 ,0 «O 3 2 °BB .0 J C 6 > ® !U ''o' M '
3" "» 377 3=78. 47:88 ll »at defic,
478 21217 33078 ,qq and under
984 10 774 34*64 l 0
"S! „
1 Q * *399* 36758 ico 14, war "ftal
»7» 24181 976 10 493 upwards
" 9 ■ * mame
For- Sale, ~
The Brig DIANA " 10 I
v. eg * O,
V t.l tound, and but foi.r years old. Apply td ° iru '> '&■> a
AMim 3 & Co. TJST,
itoVltinna
TINEL. .
MEMOIRS
Of the Haufe of Savoy, -with fomt account of the
Court of Sardinia.
... p p THE sudden aggrandisement and fpe?dy decline
of the house of Savoy, is ft problem only to those
th endear'd, unacquainted with its history.
The rocks of Mount Cenis proved as lucrative
formerly to the Princes of .Piedmont, as the found I
r does at present to. the Kings of Denmark. Du
e renew , ring the long and bloody wars, between the houses I '
„ of Bourbon and Aaftria, this turnpike road into I
flow, Italy was frequented by each of them, and a toil ''
frown regularly levied on the favored army. Nay, if we 1
believe hiftory,.it was actually put up to au&ion, I '
n and let to the highcft bidder. 1
Little slates, as they possess no real phyficial I F
, strength, provided they enter the vortex of Euro- "
P ean intrigue, muftaccuftom themfeJves tea certain J 0
degree of political and their governors I
nme, must frequently appear in the humiliating but nee
Aired gaze, ceflary character of perpetaal'balance mailers. In "
c " (liort, it is by a change of position alone that they J
w can preserve their and prevent a sudden I
subversion. tl
If was owing to this policy, that the petty Counts oi
of Maarienne became Dukes of* Savoy, and the I V
■nd ; Dukes of Savoy Kings of Sardinia. It is in con- [th
i sequence of a departure from such a system, that m
i, J newl y cr sated royalty has been recently shorn J
ham ? I "® fa r*> after riling in splendour, at the be- IP r
ginning of the present century, (1718) seems but wi
ine." too likely to be firbje&ed to. a temporary eclipse, if G1
nd, not doomed to set at Lft in blood and disgrace. S n
THE GOVERNMENT I«d
r r ■\\ def P otie > therefore military. The officers C f
sing face wield the law at tl|e end of their canes. They are J thl
!' - I |>7 a numerous clergy, in order to keep the
• people in ignorance, which, in such a cafe, is ano- ' nt
ther name for flavcry. In Savoy alone, jbere were P«
J * different colleges, exclufirely appropriated to, i,e
what it is the fafhion to term, '«theology.'*"There P ro
* are no less than «ve Archbifliops, twenty-eight bi- to 1
an cure, ft,ps, forty-four Abbots, and Monks and Nuns in- "ej
death, " revenues were immenfc; but a I g en
ht, Savoyard, like a Welch curate, is alfewed to starve cha
I 011 151. per annum. f u fy
Lettresds cachet are as common in Turin, js they thel
were formerly at Versailles ; they have their baftiles
I ■ tCrm al> ' as c °rpus is unknown in any j Tur
law dictionary on this fide of the Alps. ]„ the ri «'
r. . r frtUtio 'i f' (" Ma 'J h > proraulged in the ,
> I 77°» there is a whole chapter on the torture ! com
•OMINIONS AND POPULATION He
Countries. Chief Citi ( s. ring
Piedmont Turin also
P- j Chamberrv coufi
-Monferrat Cafal butt
>y this I efandrine Alexandria * m P c
indred I Wneglia Oneglia ti«h
ice, flie J /"and of Sardinia Cagliari of re
°T i he »i n ?l oms of C yp r «s and Jerusalem, H
s fter- although his Majesty include, thcm ,Vhi, tiS bfcd
— Tt7ir ner v hem in hi — ai voy,
• 7 I t J. t ,"" do not ex «ed three millions two alwa )
mgton hundred thousand fonli. """oni two £
I t 1-7 T> . TAXES - I very
Im , • I» n 9 before the revo 'ution, is fubiea hehol
jo drfCTing sra tea V -
Ws. e c "y» l ° *.P er "ntage on the income, or in
ait oa° ' th " ' ndUftry ° f £he 5 and
alio to a capitation. ' v ; CCj
The taxes levied in the provinces are as numerous a Sa'r<
Z c f Taw? In add't "T VeXatl ° US ™p,o
10 11? r,l 0010 the terr 'torial imposts, i s this,
Z°T' lUp ' C ° F Pied ™°", a nd come
<0 fab/e so J f,[, ! r , fC ' wh, ' ch is 'he indifpen- been i;
taxed^ivf pr ° ' a «nfea. The tree, are 'nonth
ches nf rl T' " jf ° ls f °' each twelve majell
fant erorl r i'T'r 1 mU " b ' P a, ' d before the pea- than f,
o of hat kind g, C r is a Land :
that kind, called in luly Loto di Genoa • this Th<
the^lfR 1 "' 1$ fy° ry contribu tion, iaifed on 'eady ,
morSf °TH 31 the of ,h " fuct/ a!
™ S hp Ca ! hol,c p^" c '. who govern, this the for
"untry, also permits the monks to difpofeof tick- In. 17c
° own"amount or caeh, on tlici. j i»
> carried
3 revenue. of pcrf
> The'^Tr 1 pr ° dt, v s j ncar^°'oooL 'lerling- a year This h<
Ihe taxes now raised on the neople of FntrLd lt 18 obJ
amounting to almost sixty fhi!li n o' s a tended
them less than the five and fix-pence a head S the b^
on the former ; and yet, prejudice apar* 'hp' r 't c9r P*-
and climate are both ot tnd th of
, C q °T7 aboUHds w 'th articles for £' B S those of
-variably natives of Piedmont. the S™
besides breeding multitudes of black cattle' « lr ' Piedmol
~ radiftes and chefouts, and furfiiih;s Paris with ch!m! the Frei
y - weepers, and Lrwdon with orinders of -n r ln g °f
b >- - - ° f '
termed a " Chat],
»apb«h«S;{Etr-S ?!'" -
that dejicit occurred during a nmC,,, a . del to all
and under a mc Ji „ teUent adminiJrctUn " y ' ' 1 ! nal dc
TROOPS. tutor
«ne peace establishment is 22 000 - r confid ent
war ufuaily 30, c .0 ; duri " the '° D °° f ' " t,mC f ways wj't
upwards 40,000. Ofthefe f . favour of
also - ««*
to b? -
nent h iar< de Mon&Z'u, .
ta u*be*u litre f»nr *u prwcef JfjiflZ' n Hc nev '
GfebtiiHHlt U MuCq,, dc Savtie ' ' fbyJ %* Procru!les
H a
———' generals in the army lid amount to about th
died, and there.no less than ooe hundred a
ml of the officers in the legion of. cavalry alone. « '
MARINE.
!y dscline As the corps of. cavalry at Naples prefi
to those horses without riders, so the n
tabliwment of Sardinia yxhibits a marine corj
lucrative out men war * There were indeed two
lie found launched a few years ago, but the/ have n
k. Du- heard of during the present contest. The j
re houses haps rotting in Cagliari!
road into I After this dale(n<snt, the difaders of tl
id a toll I ' w ' l " P er haps appear the less furpriling. Th
iy, if we I tr >? ns defended Piedmont with vigour: it t
audtion I f ron 'i ffr to 'he Milanese ; but the momem
I were defeated by the French impetuosity, t
phyficial [ popularity of the.gQvernment,.the operation
if Euro-1 d'jitii, and, above all, the want of acommoa
J certain 'on part of the people, (hewed that the g
overnors I raent wa * inadequate to the relidance of a f
but ne- I eaem y* Tbe throne of a king totters froi
:rs. In I he feparateshis own intereds from tl
lat they his P eo P'f !
sudden The king of Sardinia, Viflor Amadeus I
J the olded monarch in Europe : he is now 70
Counts I a K f » f° r he was born June 26, 1726. 1
nd the I 7 et Duke of Savoy, he applied to the refor
in con- f t ' le l aws w ''h a laudable indudry, and adtualli
m, that mu 'ged a new code, which, like that of mod'
y {horn J States, is more commendable in theory tha
the be-I P rai^lce * The example given him by his f
ms but was not calculated to increase his natural huma
ipfe, if I Charles EmanuelHL who was what is term
ce. \ great warrior, on beholding a fieldof battle fl
I ed with dead men arid horses, exclaimed, P
officers CavaUti! This was a phrase fit only for a kin
ley are the Houynhymns J
ep the I , 8 prtfent majedy, 111 one thing, and it n<
is ano- I intereds his AibjedU—differs eflentially from
e were J P re decedor. I he former was so economical, ;
ed to, bc *cculed of avarice ; the latter is pmfufe 1
There J P rove ; being, like our own James I. addi
ht bi- I£o stow an( l dissipation. He has been knowr
ins in- | crea 'e twenty Lords, or, as they are there tern
but a gentlemen of the bedchamber, in one week,
starve chamberlains, with leaden keys, nicely gildid,
suspended from empty pockets, are innuraeral
1 they 'here is not a court in Europe where there are rr
sftiles ribbands! It is impofiible to cross the efplanadi
1 any Purin without jodling against a cross of St. M
I the r j cc - 1S majesty is also paflionately attachec
•d ; n the military ; and three fourths of hi* annual
come has been condantly absorbed by the art
He has generals and colonels enough for mance
ring an army of one hundred thousand men.
also maintains flceleton regiments, byt the lk e let<
confik of officers alone. The pay indeed is triflir
but then the uniforms are so very brilliant, it
impofiible for an Italian count to refill the temp
tioh of ruining himfelf, ü ß dei so handsome a {
ot regimentals-
Ifm ' k- S ma j eft y> like his father » has perhaps ex
tleS, blted 'oo much partiality towards Piedmont. £
r.gs. vo r» the original appanage of the family, has be
two always treated with jealousv <an d diltrud : and
tor Sardinia, which to the title of kin# adds t
very Pnroyaf revenue of a fym we not unfrequenl
jest at the bottom of the rent-roll of an Enpli
-av- I i uis Woihe a pTaceTrrexTreTbr thole t
■ a.fl.ed from other States. The very officers a,
and io-ajers sent thither arc often deltined to that f«
vice, not as a duty, but as a punishment. Neith
ous a Sardinian nov Savoyard is allowed to exercise ai
ex- employment in the place of his nativity. Aft
is this, isit surprizing that the one province is b
md comea French department; that the ether h;
CH . been in open mfuiredtion during the lad twel<
are months; and that from neither of them does h
1T 2l W ,"!° rC / evenue at 'his momen
Ca Lan i I 0 ™ " 8 m ''tuated in the Hoi
is, Ihe king's passion for military men has been a]
on 'eady mentioned. This extends to minute objedt.
• r Sl f ait a , coat ' thc C ° lour of a
~, 'he form of an epaulet, and the (hape of a button
k- I" 1791. v Amadeus collected all the drum
"I!f t" in the tafemes, or barrack
e. Turin ; and their branch of military music wa
los l' f'fl" C ° ' <I " C " Ce of this » to a higher pitel
h 1 n" U had ever a "ained before
r " r C r ,C [ l[£ t0 3ppear w "nde,ful, vvhe.
J ' ' ® °^ fe . r "' d ' that h,s majetty, i n per son, luperin
3 h Kft ,f r pr ° grefi daii >': and 'hat Pre K nani
d srps Th P7' Italy ' in ' lrUacd the^hole
II ! P l er ! Ult Was ' that drums of the ca
I pnal of Piedmont excel, even to this very day
. those of V.enna and Berlin . and , hat the leader
'■ "ain 3t C ° Pera h ° Ufc Was dilbbcd a "p.
" fubfidS f r PatHy, ) f3mi,y conne &'ons, and large
e " brid, «. have produced wonderful changes since
, ' h 7 ra nd.reform of drums; and a of
s Piedmont 15, at this moment, in the poflVifion of
' kin r f"o '* Cll " er 35 a pledge or a conquell 1 l^hc
'of his [ li , at ' the customary policy
: ot his ancellors, has already begun to treat w>h
lanefe, he rZ vet t n " P ° n, ° n ° f M ''"
! Geneva into fubmifiion like
, tors of blejfcd memory. p.ogem
the prince of piedmont.
Charles Emannel Fredprlf-t M •
cellent prince whof» a a aria » 's a mod ex
del to aVthe beTr a nn " a a »o
di'nal de Gardel an "L^ uro P CI The car _
his tutor f but he has C ) er *? raEn .' was
confident. He has nm'f * maD tor his
ways with the utmod H ,° rm '' y ' nte, f e "ed, but al
favtar ef the Sa a' ' ctice aB(1 submission, in
•I&, .w, ?'r , . ,nd H,v;
war, °PP olcl l '1 19 piefent
verfation with hi« r, 1 < 3 ar coh
the *«fiftibk "ouini W -" speak, ' n g of
"Ccux auim.l, • I opinions, exclaimed,—
p c cl,„ ? Jt »I». »'«!» fc Z
p Tu ri „, «„ draTi ;
a %h. '■ ° ne Commen toward, without | ]
Illft . THE IiUKE D'ROSTK
an. ut:y Resembles the king his father, who has arvM '
« | patrimony for him out of the prophecy „f >' '
church. This, in lu] y , ; s termed .« • tr "** ; 4
fents the the Pope's nails." ' ' P 3nn g : the||
naval ef- We preceded them at that sport, and n„,. u
rps wuh. VIII. brandi(hed the fciffi,r S with Wonderful
' frigates tenty. ' tul ocx-<i
not-been the dukes de movtferrat, ganevo,,
COUNT DE MAURIENNE. ' •
- These three princes were reckoned well I
the war ed, until the appearance of the duke d'A„ I 's
he Auf- and his brother the duke of Berry M,'.. l " ani I
was the | count d'Artofs, rtow Monfieur'. for,,) at .V"' Mnl
nt they {of Turin. The superiority of the Fn- l CO " rt I
the un- is laid to have been at'once visible anrl f"r r prl " ccs 1
iof the refpe-a to everv ihipV LS /
in cause Marias Snd Ppter-nojl/rs. IC of Ave. jj**
rn " ' THE B UKS D E CMABLAIS,
foreign The king', half brother, dabbles in commerc, • \
am the but any one who dar.d to term his royal Sir? £
:hofe of a merchant, would be put in .ror.s, aid *££ f
V wuh the bastinado. He married his
111. is with the consent of,the court of Rome- Elk] T' I
wt a r 'VSt T v fame year ' th,ee of cit;
While with brothers daughters, were annulled in'£* '
; rm ° f f m ° nt V and the Pope excommunicated the pa ' "
XI
■ _ . princesses.
fY"' p A4ela.de aotflda-XaWcrc de Fmnce, princefiof
father Piedmont love* her hufban.J, and gained
lanity. t.0n,,.f the people by leaning Italian, which ft?
Ned a speaks with fluency. c *
strew Maria Theresa of A«ftria, duchess of Aofte is
y °^ g '. ha " df °™. attached to Germany. ,
° gof *
,early .ufimteiy j /he (till confide,s l.i« Wfe
"a®to' ~s^a b k;: g ;^r,t ,;fft? ;
to aan old maid—is likely to remain so. ° tCrffled .V,
I,died She is the vjaim of the family pride of her fa. - I
' n to ther, who would marry her to rrmr i , . ,
med, head. 7 - Lut a _«V«r»ed
H ' B p r |] e f mon u S h . ave P ersuade d her that a rich in
,«d Pared ife could alone be obtained by founding a con"
moie Alas ! her nieces, Marie Jofephioa Louisa, titular
Je at queen, and Mana Iherefa, madame of Fiance by
Vlau- courtesy, are at this very moment in want of* a a
jd to asylum. To succour their distresses, would be more
1 in- beneficent in the light of_heaven, arid more feemiy
rmy. in the eyes of men, than the endowment of afeore
cuv- of nunneries!
tons GEORGE.TOWN (Maryland) Sept. i
ing ; . A letter from Philadelphia to a gentleman in
"18 w un September 7, 1706.
pta- . Wmchefter, a considerable inland town of Vir
fuit Kinia, » situated in the valley of the Shenandoah,
. ca! . led frotn river of the fame name which u
xhi- n.tes its waters with those of the Potomac, lull be-
Sa- fore it enters the paifage, between the mountains.
leeo Jetterlw, ha? given a fine description of this pi c .
I as turelquc scenery, which that pafTage exhibits. The
r'T r 1 0ad to Philadelphia, pafles along this d«-
itly hghtful valley, which extend, to Lancafler, 3 „d
''d l .
ba- StaRT, gave lomeaccount, he Hi ur visit
and fly inclining a to the left, <ou aof, the
far- mountain which bounds the valley to the W. and
he- arrive at Bath, or the Warm Springs of Berkley,
iny 5 miles distant from the Potomac.
ter this has become a place of filhiombk rrfort,
f,.| ° rt ac f ol, nt of it may not be uniMefefting.
has Ibe iltnation is «n a small valley," which extends
Ive nearly from S. to N. and is not more than thivear
his four hundred yards wide. The distance from A-'
nt, lexandria, the Federal City, and George ■town, is
jly about 100 miles.—The springs iflue from the foot
of the hill or mountain or. the weft, which is pret
al- ty high and sleep—they form so considerable a
Isj stream as to turn a mill within a few rods. The
g, water is perhaps something below the temperature
n. of new milk. At iirft it is not generally re'ifhed
vi as think, but in a few days it is taken in quantities
k8 that are almost incredible. Eyery person repairs to
'' le fp nn si;» where two boys are (latior.ed, and hand
:h tumblers of water with much expertnefs. There
e. "s a house with five convenient baths, which are
:r, filled from the spring by means of trunks. The
i). water is easily let out, and thus frefh water is fur
i, nifhed lo'tetS compaTTy, br each luiHy-Soilr"
le The number of persons who frequent this place
1- '* ascertained, from a book in which each perfon'.
r, name is inserted upon arrival there, and one dollar
;r is contributed and applied to keeping thfc Baths,
). See. in repair, and ornamenting the adjacent ground |
with walls and trees. The principal fprmg i? be-'
e neath the fliade of two spreading oaks—Seats are
e provided and'you fee them occupied by groups of . *
f ladies and gentlemen, through mo(l>of the day f |
,f when the weather is favorable. During the sum- *
c mer, from two to seven or eight hundred persons,
f visit Bath—they fell flior't of three hundred when
1 I was there—but more were cxpe/ied—they come
; from the tide waters of the Chefapeak, where inter
s mittents prevail, from Alexandria, GorgetoWn, Bal
r timore, Philadelphia, &c. Persons with rheuma
-1 tic and bilious complaints usually get relief if they
live temperately. The surrounding country is rough
and barreu, with some fruitful fpols interspersed,
the salubrity of the air in the neighbourhood ot
the mountains, makes a few weeks residence here,
bencficjal to moll perfon*in ill health.
Thcaccommodatione are as as could be
expected where many persons are crotided into a
small village, of from fifteen to twer>ty honfeg.—
There are four or five good boarding
price at present fix dollars a week ; some families
take houses and provide for themselves. The morn.
ingsand evenings are cool at Bath, as the (ituation
would lead you to conclude. It is excelfively warm
in the middle of the day, when the rays of the
meridian fun fall directly upon the spot.
It is not invalids alone who frequent this place.
In returning from Bath, it is often enquired, *' who
wa6 the Belle this Hymeneal treaties have
; often their preliminaries fettled, or at leall negocia- l|
tions are commenced. They have ball, pretty fre
quently ; and parties occafionMlj dine at Hancock, %
a village on the banks of the Maryland fide of the
Potowmac, not two miles dirfaut from the Pcun- "j
iylvanialine, * ' ||*
, The very rational amufemeet of gamUing t may
here be enjoyed in all its delightful variety. Per
-3 have often the exquisite fatisfa&ion, after pass
i r two or t'nrf?r sleepless nights to find themselves
tbjlurthehed of fix, eight, ten, or twelve hundred
dollars, according to a man's purse or refutation.
The loofers at times taife the cry of cheats, fhar
pers, Sec. There are to be sure no laws even jn
the Common-wealth of Virginia that compel a mah
to risque his money in this way; but the law» of i
cuftera, and the inebriating charm* of play, bind, i
-fediice, and lead captive. I
Ypurs, See. I
Philadelphia,
MONDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 16* ,796.
Yesterday failed for France, Gen'. Pinckney, Mi.- '
)ii£W Plenipotentiary from the United State 3, to the ]
French Republic, in the room of Mi. Monroe, who
has been recalled.
Th-appointment of Gen. Pinckney to that import- <
ant tlation must afford (incere pleasure to all those who '
ar« acquainted with his patriotic virtues andeminent a
bilitits. While his dcrelidlion of a molt lucrative_prac- ,
ti:e in the profeffion of ihe law, evinces his patriotism 1
in facrificing pr.vatt a ivantagee and domestic ease to '
the public goo 1; the feledlion of luch a Jit character !
by the Prelident, manifefu his judicious, vigilant, and
unceafirig care of the public good.
' Ihe friends of American Independence, and of a
cordhl friendihip with f i anc e, may now congratulate* f
themfelve , that at the fame time that our minister will 1
exert his belt and fincerefl endeavors to tighten the J
bonds of friemifh p betwecnthe tworcpublics, onliberal
and honourable principles, having a ways manifefted a
lively inrercfl for the Fiench fevolutipn, and a warm (
attachment to the nation, he will never lose fight of /
those national principles Which have ever characterized i
him in his military and political career, and which
wiil never fufi'er him to be either the dupe of Foreign in
trigues, or the tool of domejlic faction.'
<
A Comnl?llCrnlriii"fcfrccmferrtnjj Degrees in the
College of N\-w-Jeif«y, is to be held at Princeton 1
next Wednesday. ,
— t
Mr. Chalmers has lately made his firft appear- 1
ance on the Bolton Theatre, in the part of Vapid, c
in the Draiflatift. In ihe Columbian Centinel it ia li
said to have been " tbe mod splendid display of f
Theatric talent ever witnessed by a Boston audito- a
TJ." It is generally allowed that #n Puff, Vapid, d
Goldfinch, and many other chara&ers in thii line,
* Chalmei sis without a rival. 3
~ . C
A few days'finre a small brig was launched at
Kensington, with all her malls, yards and spars (lan
ding, fails betat, Sec. Having a considerable distance
to run before (he (truck the water, the fpetlacle
was rendered very pleasing. The novelty of the
fight, attracted fcveral hundred fpe&ators.
— t
One day last week, as a gunner near the middle "
ferry, knocking the flint of his gun, laying
over a rail, it went off aud wounded a child who
was paffi >g the road, very dangerously 4 the charge
being duck (hot. - ..Jet •.—B—tM if
— f
A Frrtiih gentleman is in town, from New- [
Yoik, w oleft Si. Croix the 4th inft. He informs si
that he dined on b<v'd the Vengeance Cutter, be- g
longing to Cap't. Barney, the day beftrc he left a
the Island. The Captain of the Cutter informed n
him, that he failed from Cadiz bay, in company
with the French and Spanish fleets, on the fourth n
of August, and that he kept company with them i.i
two days. . f<
A letter from St. Croix of the 4th inft. menti- ' c
on» that the Vengeance Cutter had arrived there a
with a very valuable prize.
BANK OF COLUMBIA, F
September 19, 1796. ci
THE Stockholders are informed that the Di- 11
vidend for the half year ending this day, is at the a
rate of nine per cent, per annum, (being one do! c
larand eighty cents on each share) and that the
fame will be paid to them.or their legal reprefenta'
tives on the 28th instant.
S. Hanfon of Sam. Cajhier.
. - P
BY TIIIS DAY's MAIL.
PORTSMOUTH, Sept. 17.
The votes for Federal RepresentativeS', cast up, I
from all the towns we have been able to obtain ac
counts from—ftand thtis.
Abi 1 Foster 1657 C(
Jeremiah Smith 1635
William Gordon '283
4 Woodbury Langdon 549
Jonathan Freeman J2O tt
Thpmas Cogfwell • 464 f>
John Prentice 428 di
Nathaniel Peabody 37 1 tl
Nathaniel Rogers 336 S
Joseph Ciiley 236 at
John Bellows • 167
Peleg Sprague ill
Timothy Walker 103
James Sheafe 103 /
Edward S. Livermore' 74
Israel Evans, 67
Nicholas Qilman 27
James Hill" 25 (J
Oliver Peabody 22
Paine Wingate 18 ac
Thomas Thompson 10 ; n
Atthur Livetmore 9
Aaron Hutchinfon 7
Charles Walker ~ 7 th
William Plummer 5
' Nathaniel Gilman 3
~ of
SALEM, (Mad".) Sept. 20. ' v\
We are happy to fee the prefr,,, the sermon mi
of the reverend E. Hubbard, of Marblehead, upon
the death of colonel Ome. We know how falfe F<
f'.irlerarpanegyrips commonly are. But the modelly
cf our pteachcr could not be file # :t the praise ol uii
who wa» aa honour tv.iiuman nature. His ya
we alfr I n that that
Tur chS" l and - vve prefcre for
sln r A'ft' 1 "?' 3nd tcftilnony
We tha.i read it ro
our chiMren, when we inftruft them to be g oo d
- men. To urge their v.rtues, wo fnall tell them to
- be a, good as colonel Orne, as diligent, a, public
i fp-nted, and a, fincerp a friend t 0 th'r country.
h By a letter from Newbury-Port, from the health
f commute, on Saturday Utf, we are .ffured, that'
,»» P nf ™ was then sick of a malignant fever, and
health. Wn W3B 0 7 knOW " to be in g r « ICI
» '■—mi ,
gazette of THE UK,TED states marine list.
p H I L A D I L P nI A, SepavMr s6.
q, . ~ , • CLEARED.
. Ship Mancheder, Shewell,
■ B,ig M Fa ; r , AmC ;' Ca "' Richards, Je rem ,e
Malabar, Renyon Hifpaniola
Governor Brook Ehrenfcrom, N. Orleans
> Schoo ««Mary Foulke, Aux-Cayes
1 hree Sifters, M'Known* Beaufort
- w Arrived at tbe fort.
» Ship Nancy Dill Montego-Bay
, Schooner Snfannah, Carson, Rarbido/.
- Sloop Robert, Hefs,
. Newbedford, September 8.
I • Arrived fh,p Hudson, M. Gardner, 76 days !
j from Dunkirk—Left there, (hip Indullry, G.
, Lawrence of ip Eliza, Phippsof New- i
j \ ork—and the fohonnerjeremiah, Stevens, of Mar.
1 n d T Ju ' y Zd ' ,he En « lifll eh»"noe!, spoke '
, (hip Bristol, of New-York, bound from thenee to :
: Amflerdam July 27th, in lat. <u, long. 30, fell '
I m 4 French frrgates, one of which boarded i
I the Hudlon, and after examining her papers permit' '
!cd her to proceed on her voyage.
1 Tr • . Salem, Sept. 20.
: Yesterday armed the Ketch Ehia, Capt. Phil
-1 hps, in 1:6 days fr®m Calcutta.
June ift, was spoke tbe briut. Equality, of Bal
timore, capt. Pick, from the Isle of Franoe, bound
home, out 23 days, all well. Was afterwards in
, company close off the Cape of Good Hope, m a
I heavy gale of wind from the westward which laded
for seven days, (hip laying to all that time, was not
able to fpe.k her after the gale, flie being a lone
dittance to the Eaflvvard.
lal ' 5> 3°- S. long. 90, 15, E. spoke
3 kHghfli homeward bound Indiamen which left
Calcutta River March 19.
s
Bo.ston, September 20.
From India—the latest.
By *n arrival yesterday at Salem, in 1 [5 days
from Calcutta, papers were received to the 14th of
May. In the following note, which accompanied
the papers when forwarded to us, is a good lum
inary of their contents.
Messrs. Young & Minns,
1 herewith fend you several Calcutta papers, this
day received by the Keteh Eliza in 115 days pas- "
faac. You will find in them, the conditions ofhSc
surrender of Colnmbo, in the Island of Ceylon,
[which however exhibits nothing,interefting to A
mericans ;J An account of a fleet'having failed a
gain ft the Spice islands ; and information, that yith -
a little coerfion, the difputej between the eompa .
ny's troops had b.eeri put an end to.
To shew the great improvemeots made in the
navigation of our eountry.it may not be amiss to
inform the public, That the Krtsh Eliza hasVr
formed two fuccellive to Calcutta, in
less time than has heretofore been thought
and bo v h thefc voyages eniively against the Monsoon
hr.ring to beat imo the bay of Bengal, and out fit
like manner, the season changing while she lay in
Port She hard also to pass tlfr Cupe of Good Hope
each voyage, on her return in tbe middle of win
ter. Thg fiift voyage was effedled in g months '
and i4days—r-the la ft, in 9 months and 6 days, in
cluding a ftoppageat thejfland of Bourbon I
Calcutta, May 14, 1796. I
The Kensington, an American (hip, arrived from 1
Madras on Wednesday.
The Insurance is now To high in Calcutta, tho'
perhaps not more than adequate to the different I
risks, that it must be avety profitable trg.de, which i <
can afford to pay it.
Madras, April 2. ' I
On Thursday evCSog arrived and anchored in •
thv roads, the American Ih'ip, John of Boston, capt. 1 '
Folger : She left the Dojvns, the 19th of Ofto- j ■
ber, and the island of Madeira, the loth of De- I
cember. f
Boston, September 21.
Far tie CentiNel. '
The public have before been informed of the cap
ture of the brig Friendship, captain Smith, from j
Aux Cayea, for The following is'the '
decree of the vice admibf.-y court at Halifax ; and.
though apparently fair, is pronounced by captain
Smith, to contain as much vice as coald iflue ftopi .
aoy vice court in Bermuda. <
-*><»■ i
WE Richard Bulkeley, Esq. Judge and
(L. S.) commiffaryof his roajeity's coui>t of vice- „
admiralty, for the province of Nova Seo
tia aforefaid, and the maritime parts thereof, . a
Having maturely considered vhe merits of a cer.
tain exhibited to risit «ourt- by Sampson Sal
ter Blowers, Esq. his majefly'sattorney gentral and
advocate in the laid court, who prosecutes for' apd
in behalf as well as of his majefly, as the honour
able Alexander Forester Cochran, captain and com q
mander of his majefly's ship of war Thetis, -and £
the other officers and crew of the said (fcip.and Hen- Q
ry Wemyfs, Esq. captain and commander of his
majesty's fliip of war Pievoyante, and the other .
■officers and crews cf the-faid fliips, refpeftively :—
Wherein the said attorney-general, among other
matters, alledges and sets forth :—
the said Henry Wemyfs and Alexander
Foreiler Cochran, being cruiling in concert and to
uciher, in and wrth his majfliy's said (hips of wfr> C
under their refpedive c ommands a« aforefaid, being t(
; v art of the under the #f'vice- c
'
it | admiral Murray, on the fourteenth das of July lafl,
>' i on the h'r(h fe;s, sboutjhree leagues to the eaft
y j war.d of Cape Henry, on the coast of North-Ame
° j ilea, they fell in with and seized as prize, a certain
» j lirigantwc called the Fricndfhip, of the burthen of
0 one hundred End fifty-five tons, under the cum
c raand of one Thomas Smith, and being loaded
with a cargo on board, confiding of fugais, coffee,
h cotton, molaffts and other merchandizes, and hav
t ing sent the fimi briganlini and cargo into the
d harbour of Halifax aforeTaid, for adjudication.—
r And further Rating, that thefaid brigantine Friend
ship, and all and lingular the goods and merchan
dize, her cargo on board at the time of herfeizure
afortfaid, belonged to France, or to some. perftn
or persons being fubjetts of France, or inhabiting
with?# some of the territories of France. Andall
the papers and writings fount' on board said (hip, at
th'c time of capture, having been read and confiiier
td» trjgtthcr \YHh the claims filed in this cause, and
S taken in preparatory, under the
e Handing interrogatories, and-every othir nutter
3 and thing requifitc and neceffaiy for a (air and im
partial hearing and tiial of the [Sremifes, having du
ly attended to, We do pronounce this our delini
tive lenience and decree thereon, as follows: —
We do order; adjudge and decree, ail and fingu
' jar, that part of tlx cargo on board.said brigantine
( 'h'pped by Edward Hall,and Denton, or eitliCr of
them, as also the goods Hated to be the property of
» s eter Borton, to be lawful prize to his mijetty ;
, f nd we do hereby condemn the lame as such accord
ingly: and we do further adjudge and decree, That
; all and lingular, that part of the cargo, t-leimed in
behaifor Petti'ngill and Smith, together with that
. that part of the cargo claimed by Thomas Smith,
) as his private adventure, and also thi private ad- ,
1 venture of the maie; and one ol the other crew' 6
| fdveutuie, and also that part of the cargo claimed. .
in behalf of Seth Sanger, together with the said -
brrgant-ne Frienddtip, her boats, (lores, tackle, ap- !
parel, and furniture, to be restored, and delivered
up to the claimants, such cults in the
premises, as may be taxed and allowed by this court. I
And we do order and decree, That all and Angular
j the remainder of the catgo on board, be unloaded,
from the said brigantine, and depofitcd in fdme
1 fafe and convenient warehouse, under the joint cuf
| tody of the marljiall of' this court, or hit deputy,
' and the colledor a»d comptroller of his rmjelty's
cuftoirw, and under the infpe&ion of the agent for
I the captors and claimants, fobjefl to ourfurthet or
der and decree thcrron, or further proof of the
■ property be produced, either on the part of the
1 captors or claimants, or otherwise as the court may
decrtr right and jufton the pretnifes.
Given urulet otir hand, and the seal of the said
court at Halifax, t.hc 20th day of August, 1796,
t and in the 36th year of his Majesty's reign. '
r RICHARD BULKELY.
C. Morris, jun. D. Regilier.
A true copy.
Ou the above truly formal, and as it would ap
pear from the caption, sacred St ate-Paper {which
1 the aboriginals of our country very pointedly call
Potu-Mam) the following obfervat'ons may be
made; — - h»l that part of the cargo shipped by
, Hall and Denton, was 'bona fide the property of
Stewart and Son, of Baltimore; and the' follow
ing extrsds from intercepted letters of Capt. Co
chra" to hi agents Foreman and Gfafftf, wififhew
ou v. hat groitrids it has been condemned
" On board htsMajelly's (hip Thetis, at sea,
Augufl 6, 1796.
" On tne 14:11 of lall month, being in company
with his M:jetty, s (hip Prevoyante, we detained and
(ent into Halifax, the brig Friendship, of Newbu
; ryport, from Aux-Cayes, bound to Baltimore.
, laden with fug-tr, coffee, &c. &c. all of ivhiifh it.
1 on freight, and the greatefl part said to belong to
Stewart and Soris, of Baltimore, who from being
Biitijh fuhjt'dfg and trading, with the enemies of
Grew-Bi i.ain, make their property liable to confif
1 cation; this do£bine has bees cbnfirmed by the
Lords of Appeal, in the cafe of the schooner Ro
bert, cordemned at Bermuda, taken on her passage
from Guadaloupe, and belonging to Messrs. Pat
terfons, of Baltimore.
" I fufpedi that the remainder of the cargo is
1 French property, covered or belonging to Briiilh
ftiljjefls resident at Aux payes, which would e
qu'aliy make it attachable.
" The besrer will jjive you every particular in
formation,which should be lodg«d in the Court of
1 Admiralty, and a copy of that or any other you 1
1 may procure, you wiii oblige me by forwarding to
Bermuda."
Capt. Cochran thendfcfers to certificates and in
formations enclosed in his letters, which art necef
fary to be communicated to the pcrfons concerned
■only, and concludes—
" I beg you will communicate this, and the en
closed to Messrs, * Blowers and Uniache. I hope
foan to fend you some cettifieates of confequcnce,
and am, &c.
I Extracl from the information.
; Den ton and Hall, of Aux Cayes, the former ' ,
English ; Stewart and of Baltimore, are
Scotch.
" The certificates to be produced in evidence,
and the bearer to be mojl pointedly interrogated."
* One iiAttorney-General, the other Solicitor-Ge
neral.
•
Mr. Sanger, of Baltimore, who ha ded us the
above, had ou board the Friendship a confidcrable
quantity of coffee proceeds of a copper bottom
schooner and cargo fold at Aux-Cayes. His pro
perty would have been condemned, he supposed,
had he not arrived at Halifax, vety opportunely,
on the day of trial ; the informers have given Capt.
Coc.'.ran a falfe ttatement, on which the Solicitor-
General did not fail to vociferate in a declamation I
of two hours and an half. Mr. Sanger is a native
of Bollon, and committed n» other misdemeanor, 1
than to have parted with his schooner ior a price J
with which he was pleased. t
■ i
PARIS, 19 Mefiidor (Ju)y 7.)
By letters from Stralbourgh, we arc affured,tha l
General' Wurmfer, has ordered the aimy of Condei
to marcto into Auth'ian Brifgau, because he per
ceives the desperate condition of the emigrants/'
r y\
fl, who have nothing but death t» Lope far from our
ft- troops, and lie Jhioki they but artimate »h<-m. The
e fame letter (peaks of the army of Conde being 6f«
in teen or (ixteeu thousand itrong, but we hive never
of thought them'more than eight or nine thoufsnd.
n- Lejteri from the North, are filled with the ex«
-d trenic tuibairaffinent of the Au hduke Ciktli-j. be
e, injr obliged to abandon us part of his polfefilan*
v- near DulTeldorf, to return to the Upper Rhine,
le fearing to fee Jourdan repafs again that river, while
— he has bee:t obliged to detach a part of his army
to Hop t)ie progress of Moreau, all the plant of th*
Li- Auflrian generals are deranged.
r e July 14.
11 E\tra& of a letter frorh " HildcfTeun (GerminyJ
g dated joih Jonr.
d " Fifteen thoilfa'd the combined army*
U for. the defence of the line <.£ neutrality, ate arriv.
r- ed 011 the Kordcrs of the Wrfer, whtre they 'tave
d already had an-uppoituniiy to prove 1 heir ufcful
e nefs^
:r ""A fee corps of 500 men in British pay, and
1 recruited at Pyrmont, wanted to pass the Wefer ;
l- but the President of the Congrefsof this place has
i given notice to the tommandant of the corps that
htf could not, reminding him of the articles of
i- neutrality. The commandant despising tIA advice
e of the President, bcgen during- the night, to cm
if b-t k Ir.s troops ; before the embarkation was com
if plete, a detachment of 5,000 men a-refted the
; whole of the o»rpB and difnrmed them, after which
they conduced them.out of the terri.ory by th#
t order of. tli* Cong'refi."
;• 1 ■ " ■■ • ——
S ID a S.
1
Six per Cent. - * .... .
s Three per Cent 10/ -; ) !nt
!' 4 P ef Cent 14/ ("off.
i J* per Cent. - - - ,Z- \
Deferred Si* per Cent. .... jy6
BANK United States, - - . . i 9 to2oprct.
Punnfylvariia, ... .x 6 to' 27
e Nprth \meiica, ... _ 4J t o 46
. Insurance Comp. North-America 37 1-2 per ccnt. adv.
r *~~~ Pcnnfylvania, par to 2 per cent. ady.
• COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
On London, at 30 days, per £>*00 fterlJ par.
' at 60 days, par to 161 1-4
' " ~ at 90 days, 161 a 162 1-2
3 AmJterdani, 6p days, per guilder, 42
r : 9° days, 40
- : — -Mm 1 in n
C ~ 7~ " r— —
e This Day is Published,
y By William Cobhelt, oppofi'e Chriit Church,
The Pditical Censor,
1 For September, 1796.
I, Sept. 26.
Narth-Card\na-—HWJhorough Dijlrtd.
COURT OF EQUITY, April term, 1796.
John Wtllcox's heirs at law,
> Versus
Archibald Machine, James Morris, and others.
) '
fN this cause the death of James Morris being fu»,refted.
I as al<o the drathi of Phcebe Morii» and Martha Mifih.
y other defendants—leave is given to file a bill ol reviv -r
) But it is ordered, that the con.plainanti firli give fecuritv lor
the cofl<. On the complainant's eiving fccuritv tor the c«l| 4 ,
' d mg the bi'fjV revivrtr, it is ordered, that pubiica
■ tion be made in Femio'i Philadelphia Ga ette for the f ( Mce
v jf one week, and alls that pub icaiion be made in Hqclge't
S'erih Carotin* Jouinal, foi the space of two weeks, that
urilefs the defendants put in their anl weri on or before the
' third day of the ensuing term, to wi-, Oflober term. a.o.
1796, that then the said bill will be taken, pro conkho
) the defendants so failing, and a deciee made a- cord
"4i- I
1 certify, that the complainants have given security for
thecofyi agiccjbly to tho ab»ve : and I also certify the above
0 be a ttuccopy oi the minutes.
• W. WALTERS, Clri-k,
j Sept. iG- and fr.aftcr in said court*
r Valuable Real Eflate,
For fate at Außion by 'Cafptr Thirl!, of Hair.bwg,
c late the property of James and William Kinnrur
For sale by public auction,on the 9th day of November
. next ensuing, at the lign'of Geh. Washington, Wood's
tavern, borough of Reading, Berks county,the-follew
ing real eflate, vi*.
No j A TRACT ofland containing 465 acres with
s XX allowance for roads, cailed the Purchase
ftuated in Brunfwick townfh p, .county, patented'
Bth o Jan 1788. This tradi, oTwhich.auout 25 acres*
are cleared, is of good foil, situated on the Tomaijua, or
Tittle Schuylkill, well watepd and timbered, on which is
creeled a good log dwellingliouf. and liable.
f No. 2. A trail of unimproved I;nd, containing 284 a
u cres, with allowance, &c. called Hopewell, patented 28th
Oflober, 1790, situated iu Brunfwick -townfltip, Berks
conKty, loil good.
No. 3 A trad of unimproved land, containing 376 a.
1- cres with allowance, &c. c-iljed Hillfburg, patented 28th
OtJlober 1790, situation, &c. as No, 2.
J No, 4. A trail «f unimproved land, containing 388 a
crcs, with allowance, &c. patented 28th of Oiftober, 1 -g6
situation, &c. as No. 2 and ' 1
No. «. A tratA of land, containing 268 and 57
e perches, with allowance, &c situated in Brunfwick town
:, ihip, Berks county, on 1 ornagua, or little Schuylkill, 5
miles above the town »f Hamburg, on which it ere&ed a
well finilhed two (lory fquaredlog dwelling huufe, 22
1 feet by 35, within the distance of 100 pcrcheslrom a io'rre,
r with the advantage of a feri y and public houfc; thefc ad-'-
e vantagns randcr this trad very valuable.
No 16. A town lot in Hamburg, cnclofed with « post
and rail, or board fence, containi g in front, 60 teet, and
1 in depth 18s feet, fubjedt to a ground rent of 7/6 per an
num.
No 17. A town lot in Hamburg, enclosed asno *&,to
which it adjoins, being of tile fame dimensions, andfuhlcA
to the fame ground rent, on which is ere&ed a loe liable
16 by i 2 feet 6 '
: No. 18 A town lot in H .mburg, adjoining to No 17,
1 ' a corner los, fronting on Main and Schuylkill ftrcets di
. menfions the (amc as No. j6 and tj7, above defcrib-d iub
jetft to Icfo per annum ground rent. On this lot Is cr
eAed a large 2 story dwelling house, 45 feet fr nt on Main
• street, by 34 feet in depth on .Schuylkill street, pleafantiy
• asd advantagcoufly situated for a (lore.
N. B. The above defenbed three town lots will be fold
1 separately or together, as may best lu.t the purch ,ferj.
„ Conditions ol sale—One third of the purchafs money
to be paid to the lubfcribers, or either of them m Philadel
' phia, at or bef ire the expiration of one month from the
c djy of sale, when a deed of conveyance will be executed ;
the refiduepayr ble in equal payments, at 6 and 12 mocthi
with interell.fhe payment whereof to be lecured by niort*
gage on the premifei.
I J t?Z S H^ d : rjun ',r 1 A/Bgneest.-
/ Frederick Muntmollm, (the ellats of
» Thorn,is Rogers, fJ'mesicWm.
Joseph D. Ut inker, J Kinnj»r.
September 36. m t h,' <
On Monday morning next will be pub
lished,
By WILLIAM COBBETT, 1
Oppoiite Christ Chnrch,
The POLITICAL CENSOR '
FOR SEPTEMBER. •
CONT4INING, J
The Lire of THOMAS PAINE, interspersed with
remarks and refiexioes; 2nd
ObJ'ervations on tbc Pamphlets lately pub
lished againfl P. Porcupine.
September 34. *3
LANDING,
From on board the Brig REBECCA, Dominic Divine, <
Master, at Philip Care's Wharf, and for Sale by the
Subscriber,
Lcndm Particular Madeira WI&E,
In Pipes, Hoglhfids and Quarter Calks. j
There are in the above parcel 10 Hhds.of CHOICE
OLD WINE, fit for immediate use.
Robert Andrews^
Sept. 6. ißTr&f No. 86, i>o. Wharves.
THIS DAT PUBLISHED,
By J. ORMROD, No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet,
(Price It «-l Cenu)
The President's Address 1
To the Peeple of the United States, ,
Announcing his intention of retiring from public life -
at the expiration of the present confHtutional term of 4
prefldency.
S.-piemier 10. d 6
Brokers Office, and "
COMMISSION STORE. f<
>fe. 63 South Third flr«et,oppofitethe national new Bank. ''
SAMUEL M FR AVNCES and JOHN VAN REED, j*
hav« entered into co-partnerfl»ip, under the firm of "
FR.AUNCES ic VAN REED, in the Vu&nefs of Brokers
CoAverancers and Commiflion merchants. They bny and Cl
f«ll on commission every species of ilock, notes of hand, :T
bills of exchange, hocfes and lands, &c. *'
Monit procured on deposits, &c. &c. all kinds c' el
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatneis and
dispatch; accounts adjofted, and books fettled, in the
jnoA corred manner. Conflant attendance will be given.
They solicit a (hare of the public favor ; tWv are deter
mined to endeavour to deserve «.
N. B. The utmost secrecy ebfervfd.
SAMUFL M.FRAUNCES,
JOHN VAN REED-
Philad. AUglift 2J, 1796. - mAwtf
BRANDY,
OF ift and 4th proof, and equal in quality to that import- c
ed from France, may be had of the subscriber at h:s Biftii- }
Icry, Xo. 1159 Story or Kew-ftrcet, between Third and
Fourth-streets, where the public, upon application, may
iudge for thetnfelves, and ill find i: an obje& well wortb n
their attention. a -
RUM and GIN im any quantity, for exportation or h<fme
confumpiion, and of fupeiior qualitv—»-by o
Thomas Cave. v
P.S RYE, MALT, BARLEY, aod MELASSES, vi!l
be purchased, or taken in exchange for (puits, upoa app'i
eaticn as above- Also any quantity of Claret or other *ii»e a
fit for distillation.
-- ogu-'t 2Q H. 1706 M4W F
f*ov> PuiTtfking by the Printer, a
At No. Laetitia Court, delivering to Subscribers, ''
and to be had at the different Book-Stores in this City,
Beiriman & Co's
CHEAP AXD ELECAXT EDITION OF
The HOLY BIBLE.
Containing the Old tnd Naw
Testaments and cbe Apocrypha, with marginal notes and re
crvoces. An ;or an account of th? most remarkable -
pailages in trie old and new Tc&ament, pointing to the piacct f
wbereinthey happened, and to the placcsof lcriptuie where- i
io tbey are recorded.—A Table ox Tims.—Table* of (Scrip
ture cxeafures, wcightaand coiuj : with an appendix,contain*,
krthe method ot calculating its measures suipacsi
khkerto westing is Trtslija ex this fxhed. A Table of Ofea
inc. Cn/in'w of men.
CONDITIONS
1. The fizeof this Edition will be a LARGE FOLIO, c
printed on a beautiful new type, and good paper, made par- I
:iculariy for it, It will be publiihed m Numbers, not to ex
teed one of which will be delivered wtekty to fubfcrib- ;
ers, at a qtnrter or a dollar. Those fubtcribers who preicr s
receiving the work coiapfcte, will be attended to by Ggnitying j
the fame on any of the fubfeviptian papers in rhe BookSoics ; .
in this city.
a* Tfceie will be an advance in the price, on fubferibing j J
after the fir of August next. • t
3. In the eourleof the Work wiH be give* an elegant '
Ffjrttiipiee«-r-t rom an fciigra\ ing of the celebrated artiA,
CixemoM.
Bra rim an & Co. gratefully acknowledge the very libera! '
eneai>ragement they Immet wit a; and have reason to believe \ *
that the cxeeutioo of their edition will answer every capec- 1
Ution, aud jpcjJt its acun praise.
May a 6 lawcuu
Philip Nicklin &c Co.
EArE FOR SALE,
Sooehong «.
Hyson Skin /
Young Hyson V FRESH TEAS
Hyfoa a*id . \
Imperial
•Y eilovr Nankeens
China Ware, assorted in Boxes and Cheits
QntlVfilver
Biaiinno Handkerchiefs of excellent qualify is
chcfis
Lend on Market ) MADEIRA WIJCE
Lontloa particular >ia pipes, hogfteads, &
Nevr-York Market ) quarter calks
Tenerifte Wine m pipes and hogieads
(ugar Candy by the Box
Sa:! Canvas No. I a S
Lead in iheets
3 Caiks of Cutlery allotted
Afcwcheilso? Ma:i«j-;Acr Goods, afTarted thick
fits, ccrdr, striped Nankeens, Ac.
; Snail packages of black tevring-filks
S Tierce* Virginia Snake-root.
Naih assorted in calks
. jaly mw&f
Mr. FR A N Ci S,
(Of tie Nesu Tkratrt)
TAKES this cpvonunity of returning thanks to bis
Scholars and to the public. Mr. Francis intends,
ob His return from Maryland, ;» open \ pablic aca
demy for dancing, upon a plan entirely new. He
flatter* himletf that his attention to his pupils hi
therto renders any promilcs of conducing hU future
lcheir.cs *. the mcft liberal and ftri&li tarns, of pro
priety, totally lirnecrTary.
X. B. Private r.it.on u usuaL
June 3 in
JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co.
, Ho. 8, CHESNUT STREET,
Have Imported in the late ve{TeJs from Europe* See.
AND HAVE (OR SALE,
A general affortmer.t of GOODS, fu it able to the season
Anoagfl which are,
BROAD and narrow CLOTHS,
Plain acd twill'd COATINGS.
Rose tlrrped and point BLANKETS,
FLANNELS and BAISES,
HATS alTorted in cafea,
IRISH LINENS,
INDIA GOODS, generally,
A Confined Invoice of IRONMONGERY,
Comprising a capital affortinent to open a ftor? —delu-
ding Thirty Calks of NAILS. This invoice will be fold
entire on very advantageous terms. ,
September so. -
Lottery
F>R raising fix tho«faod fix hundred and lixty-feven
and fifty cents, by a deduction of fifteen per
cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a prize, viz
I Prize of joco dollars is dollars 500 0
I loco iooc
i 500 s°*
5 200 ICCO
20 100 2COC
99 50 495°
200 ij s°°°
2000 10 IC,OCC
5 Last drawn numbers of 1000 dollar® each, 5000
233 a Prizes. 44*45^
40x8 Blanks.
6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44*4J C
By order of the Directors of the Society for eftablifh
mg UfefulManufa&ures, the fuperintendants of the Pat
erfen Lottery have requested the Managers to offer the
fortgeing Scheme to the public, and have diredied them
to refund the rnouey to those perions who have purchased .
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
in this Lottery.
The lottery hat a dually commenced drawing, and will
continue until finiihed. A lift of the Blanks and l*rizes
may be seen at the office oi William Blackburn, No. 64 ,
louth Second ftrcet, who will give information where tick- {
ets may be procured.
Dated this 17th day of June, 1796.
7. X CVMMING, 7
JACOB R. HARDEXBERG, £ Managers '
JQXATHAX RHEA, )
dtf en
Samuel R : chardet,
T) ESPECTFULLY informs the # Gent*&ner,
Merchants, that he has thii dav opened tb» CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in the
city of. Philadelphia:
The Subscription Room will be futmifhed with a3 the
daily papers publilhed in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos- '
ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com
mercial Cities of Eurcre—They will be ngularlj filed -
and none permitted to be taken away on any account. :
Tea, Cofiee, Soupes, Jellies, Ic* Creams, and a variety !
of French Liquors; together with the ufu&l refrefhmests, i
will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated witfc \
the choicift of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the moil '
approved Malt Liquors fromLonion and other breweries.
The Larder will befupplied witft the prime and eariieil j -
produ&ions of the Scalon. ! <
Large and small Parties, or single Gentlemen, may be 1
accommodated with Breakfafls, Dinners, or 6'uppcrs, at
hours most convenient to th*mfe!ves—a cold Collation b '
:egularly kept for conveaiencv, the Bill of Fare te be had J
at the bar. :
The Lodging Rooms will completely furciihed, asd
the utoioil a;t-n tion paid to cleanlincfs, a!hi every other 1
requisite.
Samuel Richaroet will be happy to receive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large: and with gratitude for'their favours, he pledges
himfeif that nothing on liis part fhali be wanting to prc
ferve that patronage with which he has been *0 cslhi-.'z
rngly iionored.
Philadelphia, April 19. mwf
Treaiury of the United States.
NOTICE is hereby given to all perioas who are cr
may be Creditors of the United State*, for any frans
of the Funded Debt, or Stoii, haring a present cf jlx
. per eentum per annum.
ift, That pursuant to an Aft of paifed on the
28th day of April, 1796, intitled an act in addition to an
aft, intituled 44 An aft making fuither | rovifion for the
, iupport of public credit, and for the rrdez.ption of the
1 public debt," the said debt or &ock will be reimbnrfed and
} paid-in cjunner following, to wit. " Firi, by dividends
• u to be made on the last cays of March, June and Septem
; 64 ber for the present year, and from the year onethoalund
u (even hundred and. ninety-seven, to the year one thoa
! * sand eight hundred & eighteen mc'miive,:.A the r*zz of
u one and one hah" per centum upon the original capital.
\ u Secondly, by dividends to be made on th_ iai day of
44 December ior the present year, and from the year one
u thousand seven hundred and nincty-feven, to the year
44 one thocfand eight hundred aud seventeen inclusive, at
44 the rate c. three and one half per centum upon the ori
-44 giaal capital; and by a dividend to be ma e on the laii
44 day cf December, in the year one thouland erjhi Lun
-44 dred and eighteen, of Inch sUm, as will be then aJe
-44 «*aa:e, accordlue to th? contra ft, for the fiuai redemp
-44 tion of the said dock."
2d. All diftioftion between payments on accecat of
Intsrefl and Fraeifal being thus aboliJhed by the eftablilh
ci».nt of the permanent rale of reimbnrfemen? asov» de
scribed, it has become necefEiry to vary a;c»rdingly Jtbe
powers of attorney for receiving dividends; th. public
creditors will therefore observe that the following: terra
iseftablilhedfor all powers cf attorney which may be
granted after the cue promulgation ot this notice, viz.
2 KNOW ALL MEN BT THESE PRESENTS, tbut
1 *
(b fjJ.'j cnjfctiifr jxi afp<nat
It *f *9 true ji tJ Lajuf*! At
tjr»iy,farme%arJbt try tow-, to retchx <i- are %
r,r Jh*u W pajakte t? Uxr r en th* defcrtbing the
liock) m mymi-atim the hucis •/ (htye deferibiug the
books of the Treasury or the Commissioner of Loans,
where the stock is credited) fz<r* (here 1:;Icrt the tonf
mencemcnt and ncwrauon oi t*:e for vhkh the power of
attorney U to fimrer M
rier tender ja/ da a"
Lrwfui u3t reijuifiicfor ejfstiing !scpr:rJfts y kstU? rM>. a-*J
cmfirKLzj cii t+ot my said Aaunuy or bi:f*Zfkx:z > jb*ll lawful
ly d* y by virtue left f.
In Witmef: brref 9 I Lavs bzratxto fit my Hamd vtd Seel tie
day oj i* lie r-ar
Sealed <M*d DcUvcred
:m prcfc y,
EE IT that cm tie d+y*f
s efere ate per finally same
zait±i* mjmuri xad *ilaro:led*ed tbt a&n* idfm *f mturmr* to ie
I LaoSondd^L
Im tejiiauny tobimf I hrvt berexmi* set my Hand mad a£Er»
*J Seal: be dsy lc£ wjm vfxid.
6iven under my Hand at Philadelphia, this twen
tieth day of Inly I??*, pinuaizt to cire&isn*
from the Secretary cf the Treafcrv-
SAMUEL MPRFITTH,
"Irtujartr efths Vxited Stzter.
vVi) Ij. 1
Turks-Island Salt,
FOR sals*
Pet the lhit> American, Capt. Shallcrofs—th : c rf ":
dy to at pine-ftrcet wharf on the a?" ,
Jefm Hollingficorth fc? Co.
Sept.,,. I ■ '
A Manufactory FOR SALE.
A VJuiMe SOAP Ki CANELE Manutactorlunate
imcudi -u i.t patt of the iky ; the works almost r.tw.
an an entirely original con.truflioa, and bui.t o. e; ''
materials, ai.d may be set '3 work immediately. Perrons
who Willi to jkrchafe, are requeued to apply at No. 173,
South Second Street.
September 13. f ' ' "
City cf Watnington.
SCHEME \jf the LOTTERY, N T o.II,
FOR THE /HMffmvVi 0 e THE
FEDERAL CITY.
A mxgnTScent ? 20,000 dollars, &
dwctling-hocfc, j cash 30,000, ire ) ' <
iditto 15,00 a & cafa 25,000 40,00 a ;
I .ditto 15,00# & cash 15,000 30,000
1 ditto' 10,000 & catb 10,000 20,000 <
I ditto 5,000 & caih 5, cOO io.coa !
1 ditto ;,o<d> & cash 5,000 lo,ooe
1 cafc prize of 10,000 <
2 do. <,000 cach, ire ■ 10,000 t
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,000
20 do. jpo - - 1-J,OOO
00 cfo. too » » 10,'iOO
zoo do. 50 - - 10,000
400 do. 25 " 10,000
I,ooc do. so - 20,000
15,000 dc. 10 - - 150,000
1ti,7."9 Prizes.
' Blanks.
50,600 Tickets, at Fight Dolhrj, 400,-000
N. B. To favour those wher a quantity of J
Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will bethe last drawn ,
ticket, and the 3a,ocgth - last but on a :
And approved notes, facuring payment in either money
or prizes, in tea days alter drawing, will be received for j
soy number not lets than 30 tickets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant fpecimeti of the pri
vate buildings to he cre<sted in the City of Washington—
Two bcauti.'«l designs are already feletSed for the entire
fronts on two of the public l'quares; from these prawings
it ispropofed to erect two centreand four coraer building*,
as soon as possible after this lottery is fald, and to convey
them, wK>-n complete, tg the fcrtunate adventurers, in
1 the manner described in thefcheme for the Hotel Lottery.
A nett deduction of five per cent, will be made to defray
the neceflbry eipenfes of printing, &c. and the furplas j
will be made a part of the fund intended for the Nan una] ' c
I'aiveility, to be erected within the city of Wafhingtan. a
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are a
fold off.—The money prizes will be payable in thirty days 1
after it i« finiihad; and any prizes for which fortunate l
nambers are not prodaeed within twelve months after ths c
drawing is closed, arc to be considered as given towards r
the fun* for the llniverfity ; it leing determined to fettle s
the whole buCnefc in a year from the c-.ding of the draw- ;
ing, and to take up the bond? given as fecority. 1
rhe real fecnrities given for the payment of the Prizes, <
are held It the President and two Ijiredlors of the Bcnk 1
cf Columbia, and are valued at mere than half the a- :
mount of the lettery. ' i
The twenty lour gentlemen who by appointment of
the late Ccmmiffioners affiiled in the management of the ]
Hotel Lottery are requefled to undertake ths arthrous -<
a fecoad time on behalt us the public ; a fuxficiect uca <
btr of these having kindly lccepted.it is hoped that ths
?f:®ds to a National University and the other federal ob- 1
jeers ma; contisoeto favar the deCgn.
By account? received from the different parts of the 1
Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets 1
have been ftjit for sale, the public are allured that the
drawing will I'pcedily commence, and that the carc and
eaafun unavoidably ceceffiry to insure a fafe dilpofal of
the tickets has rendered the lucr: fufpenfian indilpccfable.
SAMUEL BLODCET.
Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; o
James Weft & Co. Bal.:more ; of Fettr G iltoan, Bofion
ot John H&pkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells
CtopcrV Ferry. co
Watson*s AtfzfTFJt to Gibsox.
just KECEirED,
And for lale ly j. ORMROD, No. 41, Chcfnut-ffrect,
Apology for Christianity,
In a feritt cf Letters, addrtjjed to
Xdwaud Gibbon,
Author of the Hitiory of the Decline and Fall cf the
Reman Empire:
By R. WATSON* d. d. f. r. s. Bi£hc%ef Landaff.
(Price: 7j crsts bound )
Wstfon's Anlwcr to Psine,
* To be had iX the lame place.
Ttc enmni?. of arc uiiiztc ! Let net her
-fiieMdt JU f.
Sept. I. mwAJtf
NOTI C E. "
* I 'HE SubfcribA, havicg been reduced in his circum
i Hibccs, by lunary and being tbertby
Buable to his deb:s, hereby give* notice to
Creditor* auJ to ail pcrfoas that he intends to
apply to the Gcn*wl ACemMy of L.ndat their next
fcSeo to be he'd ca the niil Monday oi November next,
fur the fcendSt of «n a A ct infoiftiky.
WILLIAM EDMOXDSON
\ J laHon. of theothnu iswnitMN
J To be fold,
j A PL ANTATION, in the town of WooJbnry,
I 1 i ty of Gloi eeiler, aad l'.eteoi' New-Jetfcy, cootaiu
.j bg aboat ~::e huaured and fifty acres; a suitable propor
, i tion of which is woodland and improved meadow. A
great part <•- th* arable land ii in a high Aate of cultiva
tion, and very natural to the proJuAion of Red Clover.
On laid pLj—inn there is a genteel twa«fiory brick ho»i:'e,
with four roorus oa a Ci*>r, -nd a good dry cellar under
the whole ; together with a barn, corn-crib®and carriage
haufe. l'he earden ; larj-e, and contains a good colkc
tion of the ttfeV'-I>iis ctf j r«i:.-d and lKocafated fruit trees f
the orchard conn of abuat tiirce imoJicd gufetu e .
trees. Any person iacliaed to pcrchafe said premuet, may
be informed us the tortus bv applying to
ANDREW HUNTER.
July J
To be Sold,
At -W. 118, Xortk SicoHj-Strtet, uvJ by fevtroi y
tbe Afioibecaruj it tkU C'f>.
' r T"»R\NSFtRS o! the rijKlto leawve j and iofiamma
a tions tiom the butMo bady, asfecuied to Dr. ELISHA
" PtRKINS, by patcut, with iuAiuoienu aud 4ite&ioi.s ce
oaaiy lor the pi*Hice. Ta:j made of trcatmeot is paitku
" iarly ufefui ia rclit«iu£ paiat id the i.caa, tacc, teeth, brcalt,
! tide, bach, ll««ttst>f»», i«eot gouts, Ste. 4 *
Not* t::e utility us tbit practice, u ia aot pre
!u«ra but there are cases ut which tbia aud csxty othci
reaKv may t3tae*.-ji>«» far 1 .
Jane t, taV
A
! Walhmgton Canal Lottery,
N°. I.
W 'HEREAS the State of M irylacd tu s-'iir.
. the underwritten, to raise twenty-Ox tho'-'j.
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of e«t.
a Canal through the City of Walhingtoa, froo th . .
tsnncto the Eastern Branch H.iroour.
The fullowinj ia -he SCHEME of No. I.
Viz -I Prize ot 20,000 dollars, lOfr.'.
I ditto 10,005) XC,»o
)la(Ur*wn> • .
Tickets each J 5,0
( 6 ditto 1,000 6,2 c:
10 ditto 400 4." jo
»o ditto . xoo i-ccc
-5j ditto jo t,""J
57jc ditto 6? r '-^8
To be raised for the Canal, s '.s to
jSjc Pr'rrs, I7jp»
11650 Biatdts, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickers, at Ten De'!ars, - 175,
£5" Tie Coawaiitioners hare taken the Sceur re
quired by the aforefaid ait for the pungual pay?-1 if
the prizes.
The drawing ef tins Lottery will commence, .rithoaC
delay, as soon a< etc Ticket* are fold, of which t-.n.'y
notice ■will be given.
Such prize, is art- not demanded in fix months after th«
drawing is finifhed, {hall be considered as relinquilhed fur
the benefit of t!.e Cm.al, and appropriated accc riingiy.
(Sigr:ti) NOTLEY YOUNG, °
DANfEL CARROLL, c/D.
LEWIS DSBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
V. t M.DONCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES "BARRY.
City #f Wallnngtca, Fc'j. h. {
. —
Mordecai Lewis
HAS TOR sale,
NANKEENS, long and Ciert.
China, well ziTorted.
Quicfefiivefj
Dupers
Baf'as. 'M ■ . ■■ ■ "yrl'
Cofias.
Bandano Handkerchiefs.
Roll Brimftcne.
Sept. 6. ttScfini
For Sale,
A LAR.GE ELKCAKT AVO WELL FlN'IsnZD
Three-story Brick House,
(The late residence of General Walter Stewart)
j TTTTTH a LOT GROUND thereunto belonging,
i W the Weil fide ef Thira-ftreet, near Unio:.-£reSf
' containing in front 3 s feet, and in depth too feet, to to ,
alley leading into Unton-Srcct, The house is 31 feetfr at
and 30 feet deep ; the Civcral rooms contained in it are
large, commodious, and completely finifhed; the two fir.l
ilories are each 13 feet high; there are 10 mahogany
doors in the house ; a ge'om :tri«al flaircafe, with Bfehoga
ny rails and a geod iky-light. The kitchen is in the ccii-
which is Ipacous and convenient, end finiihed with a.-,
oven, (lew-holes and pantries, a fervmts' hall and fat*i ''
\ v:ine-cellar adjoining the kitchen, L* front of "wkich fa an
area, in which there is a pomp. The yard is Tatrked.
Communicating v.-ith the laid building is a neat three-lory
brick house, ca the north fide of contain'
! ing 30 feet front by ac feet deep; the lower part of which
' is at present occupied as a ccmpting-hotife, and the upper
part divide,', into weH-Snifhed large chambers. This bode
-miy - • 1 fn 1" rrp.. r 1i- r-rrr- •
dwelling : The fireet door is »eryhandldme,att jtke front
and back hare Venetian window-iutters. Adjoining the
lail house, upon the lot belonging to the firC, are creeled
bathicg**oon», &c. There are I?:tjcifevery good csac!t»
be life and lle-'ci finiffifd equal (or nearly so) v> .th my io
the city, on a lot containing on Union ltreet 30 feet, or i
in depth ou the w«il fide of said alley 51 feet. Then ate
good cellars unde, the whole ef the buildings, ar.i a>: is
room over part of the liable, with a hay-loit over there,
mainder. For further particulars enquire of
EDWARD BOXS->IL & Co.
At their Office No. 64 Docnitieet. between Walnut 3t" P IS
*-lcf ttrrr.s.
6th month 2 jth, 1796.
FOR SALE.
A PLANTATION,
ABOUT U mile* from this City, Cioare in Abjug
tpn Towjilhip, Mcfiit^omery-County ; coisCair.ing
70 aires, a cew ftoac iioutc, two ftarics btgh, t ru«M oa a
Q jor, 6rc pUccs io eich, a itonc kiccbca ami itooc fpnag
Lou.c, m excellent fpeing of water, a barti, tia?
Ibedi. barraciLS, See. A large 2^pie orccard, asd a taiieiy cf
1 other fruit, about it acres of goo<i meadow well wat. rrd,
j ati i wood {official for fire, aud the place. ? ->ucil:-
;oa may be fead the ift of Apnl next. Property io this city
mexchaog ,or MORRIS and y:CHOLSONS t
Notes '.ft hag,arc at No. 37, Arch-Street.
Fniuv eiphia, 13, *796.
WANTED,
Fcr any term frcm cnt to fnr yearr t
A HOUSE, plra&stly fit'iated In any of the printual
ftrecu within the pavement, and not Tery diilant frctn
the btate-Houfe, capably of acvtonimodaticg a Ibtall fami
ly ; the house cull hare llables and coaeh-huufe, ar.J
t would be required to be ready by the firft week aNo
reir.b.T «e\t—Eutjuire of the printer.
Sept i<. ttf
' >
FOR SAL E,
A very Valuable Eitate,
CAIAFD I'IV ITT EN HAM, {iraate in the
tow: ship of Upper Derby, and county of Delaware,
7 1-3 miles from Fhiiad Iphia, and half a n;i!e irotn the
new Weft; rn road: containing I K aercs of eiee'dent land,
45 of which are good watered meadow, 30 of prime wood
land, and the relt arable of thg firft quality." There are
oa the premises a good two story b« ick ho use, with 4 room;
on a floor, and cellars under the whole, witltapui: p-well
of eicelltnt water in trout; a large frame karn, t abl-3,
iad other cwuTecient buildings; a ftrtoke-houie and Icoae,
spring-house ; two good apple orchards and sac ot peach
es. The fields arc allin cl»ver, cxcept thoie kEr-.eiliatelT
uttder tillage, and are to laid cat as to hi«ve the advantage
uj water in each of them, whick readers it peculiarly :n
---• Veil., ut tot grazing.
1 he fitiution is pieafant and healthy, and from the nigh
cultivation of thelaad, the good neighbourhood, and t
vicuuqr to the city, it is very iuitahle for a geutlemas's
country feat.
The iortgoin., is part of the eHate of Jacob Hanczs,
, deceaied, and oifcicd foe sale by
Mordecai Levis,
M. 9. ttJtf Surviving Executor.
r, PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO,
—No. 119 —
CMESHV T-ST R. E ET,
JPrtac \ »ht Dotb-i per JasuD.],
_.. t * J