of the tEmtelJ & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
N&MBSX 1338.] THURSDAT EVENING, DECEMBER 22, 1796. [Volume X.
F° r Sligo and Killibegs,
The American Ship Nancy,
Cuthbert Riggs, master.
-- I —w Will fail with all convenient speed. For
freight or paflaee apply to
William Bell;
Who has for sale,
4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well aflbrted
3 Bales Ii ifh Flannels, and 1 boxes Linens
S5 Pipes Brandy
Madeira Wine j Indigo. Russia Matt».
Also,
A few barrels Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
OATMEAL, &c.
November it, 1796, mwftf
. Iln,. 1
FOR SALE, .
7 HE SHIP MART,
SAMUEL PARSER, MASTIH,
* * Two hundred tons burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MARY is not fold in a few days, (he will take
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
October 31. d
For Charter,
The Ship JOHN BULKELT,
Km/MX Avres Stockley, Master.
An excellent live-oak and cedar built
: of about 3000 barrels burthen —Ap-
JeJfe y Robsrt VI aln.
Nor. ' d.
For Sale, or Charter,
jCia The Ship DIANA,
Samuei. Pile, Master,'
Burthen 205 47-95 tons register, built in
SsSigjjJ Philadelphia in the year 1791, #f live oak
and red cedar, and was sheathed 13 months ago, fbe
has just had a compUat out-fit, and may be sent to sea
at a very trifling expence.
For terms apply to
Philip Nickliit y Co.
IV'ho have for sale on board said vessel,
*7 eafks of fine yellow paint. _ v
9 boxes and it bundles of Writing flatn.
x box ink stands and note prefTes.
14 hales of fail canvass.
And. on hand,
Imperial ~)
Hyson, and, > TEAS.
Souchong J
40,000 pieces Nankeens of the &rft quality.
19 tu ! >s Quicksilver.
a chests Bandanno handkerchiefs.
A few cheft6 Manchester goodswell aflVted in Cor»
durcrys, thicksets, Ginghams, MuflinetS, Dimities,&c.
3 boxes blatk sewing silk.
180 crates Qjieens ware well afiorted.
10 tons sheet lead. t
NaiU aflbrted, fiat and sharp points.
London Particular, ~i Mld , ira Wine i n pipe ,
v . \ "<1 hogtheads.
New-York Market, J 6
40 pipes and 10 hogsheads Tenerifie wine.
8 tierces Snake Root.
*30 logs Mahogany.
Nov 7. tth&ftf
FOR SALE,
At Whitefides' Tea Ware-House,
No. 99, North Seeond Street.
Imperial ") f Hyson Skin.
Hyson, * Frelh Teas. < Souchong,
Young Hyson, J C Hohea
Dec. 9. 3tawjm.
Imported front London C5 5 Liverpool,
JARTHEN WARE, m crates and hogsheads, well
ay'orted
"Wine Bottles in hampers
Window Glass of all iizes
Two cases of flationary
One chest of yellow Jesuits Bark
7'wo cases of Roll Arnotta
A small confignmeat of Rose Blankets, Flannels,
Baizes, Broad-cloths, Coatings, Plaiu«, &c.
Paints of various colors.
Basket fait in hogsheads.
Also on hand,
Madeira wine, very old, in pipes, hogsheads and
quarter casks
Holland gin in pipes, firft quality
Anchors of different lizes
A few trunks of ladies French fh ics alTorted
Silk nankeen, &c.
Like-wise an assortment of Dutch goods, confiftinj of
Ofnaberps, ticklenbergs,bed-ticks, ftripei, checks.
Morlaix linen, platillas, ravens duck, iiritannias, &e.
And for sale by the package only by
Thomas iff John Kctland.
Walnut-street Wharf.
Nov. is. —
Bnnktf Pennfyhnnia, 15th Dee. 1796.
The Stockholders are requested to meet
At the Bank onThurfday, the tWenty-ninth inßant, at
IO o'clock is the morning.
By order of the Board,
ROBERT RALSTON, Cafhior,
$t* 9 th Fr ° ten '
Women's Cloaks.
GEORGE DOBSON,
No. ij, South Third-street,
Has just received, per Eagle, Capt. Fofdick, via Lon
don, an assortment of
.Scarlet ")
Drab ( Cloaks triramed with fur and
Purple and f ermine.
Pearl J
December 15.. .
Flegant Brussels & Turkey Carpeting,
For l'ale by George Dobfon, No. aJ, South Third-street.
December 15.
For Sale,
By the Subferibers—ln PENN-STREET,
65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
Imported by the Eagle.
WILLINOS & FRANCIS.
Nov, to
Imported in the late from Europe and the
IVeJI-Indtei,
Holland Gin, in pipes
Choice St. Croix Sugar and Kum
Martinique MolaflVts, in hogsheads
Choice old Lilbon Wine, in pipes and quarter-casks
London Particular & London Market Madeira Wine,
in pipes, half-pipes and quirter-c.fts
Malmsey Madeira Wine, in pipes and quarter-ca&s
Teneriffe Wine, in pipes
Russia & Flemish Sheeting and Rarens Duvk, in cases
Window Glass, 8 by 10, in boxes
Coffee Mills and Straw ICniv&s, in caiks
Mill Saws and Crofs*ut Saws, in boxes
Also, or. hand,
A few chests of Bohea Tea j Jesuits Bark ; Affafas
tida and Tapioca ; and a few Bales of Cofiaes,
B.iftas, Gurrahs, Bandanna and Muslin Handker
chiefs, and a complete assortment of 5-4 and 6-4
1 Botrlting Cloths.
For Sale by
Pragers Ess Co.
OiHober io diwm&thim
For Sale,
By J. WARDER, PARKER £<f Co.
An Invoice of Cordage,
Confiding of differential's, from n inch cables down
to rope of 2 inches, ot" different lengths: Imported in
the fhjp Swift, from Hull, and entitled to drawback.
Sept. 17. dtf
Fashionable Waistcoating.
GEORGE DOB SON, No. 25,
SOUTH THIRD-STREET,
H.is received per the Diana, from London,
Clouded and striped Sptnifti Swanfdown
Clouded Erminats and Molefkrns <
Striped do. and do.
Figured Manillas t
Scarlet figured Erm'mets
: Printed Florinetts
Do. Csfiincts and CafilmereS
Superfine printed Quiltinps, ntweff patterns
Also, ptr different arrivals,
A large and general assortment of Dry
Goods,
Suitable to the present and approaching season.
Norerrther c. ( dtf
RAISINS.
A few Caiks and Boxes of Excellent Erefti RAISINS,
just received, and for sale by
Joseph A nth my & Co.
Also a new j I l-i inch CABLE, 120 fathoms long.
December 5. {if
Beit Boston & Nova-Scotia Mackarel,
Excellent Halifax Salrnun in bbl».
47 bbls. prime Coffee,
Bell Boftoh Beef,
Codfifh in bds.
Spermaceti Candles,
Spermaceti, and 1 nix
Northern j
Mould and dipt, tallow candies, of 4 superior
quality.
A frw boxes excellent brown soap,
6 B»le« of Corks.
40 Pipes excellent Lilbon Wine.
A lew sacks of Feathers.
A few balei India Muslins.
FOR SALE BY
JOSEPH ANTHONY, h Co.
Odlober 31. d
Insurance Company of North-America.
THF STOCKHOLDERS in this company are desired
Co take notice that the frcond Tuesday in January, (being
the xoth day of the month) is the day fixed by charter for
the ek&ion of twenty-five Diredtors for the enfaing year.
The ele&ign will be held at their office, and commence
atj 11 o'clock, A. M.
The fuLjeiS if the bye-laws ot the Corporation will be
submitted to their cc>nfid-r?.riori at this meeting.
KSENEZER HAZARD, Sec'ry-
Dec. ». tthroj
To be Rented,
A Large Vault and Cellar,
That will contain 100 pipes, lituate in Walnut
between Fourth and Fifih-ftreets. Also a COACH
HOUSE and STABLE, with Stalls for five horfts.
N. B. Goods Stored by the month.
Enquire of Benjamin W. Morris.
November 30. mwfn
FOR~ SALE,
About 1,600 acres of Land,
WELL situated, laying on and between Marfti
and Beech Creeks, Mifflin county, Pennsylvania, in
four separate Patents. For terms oi file apply to
Wm. Blackburn,
No. 64, South S'cond-jireet.
Oc\ober 31. mwftf
SALT P E T R E.
A large quantity of Double-Refined Salt Pttre for
sale at No. 15, South Tnird-ftreet.
November J.
Insurance Company of the State of
Pennsylvania.
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, tha> an election
for thirteen Dire&ors to serve lor one year, will be held
at the Company's Office, on Monday the 9th January next,
at 11 o'clock.—And agreeably to the aci of incorporation
a ftatcment of the affairs of the company, will then be
laid before them.
SAMUEL W. FISHER, Sec'y-
Philadelphia, December 19, 1796. dt 9th Jan.
Philadelphia and Lancafler Turnpike
Road Company.
A Meeting of the Stockholders for the Election of
a President, Managers, and other officers, will be
held at the Company's office on Monday the 9th .(an
next, it id o'clock.
By tht Bo^rd.
WM. GOVE TT.Sec'ry.
December 8, T796. uwtiftj.dtgli
New-England Rum, Salmon, Beef,
Chocolate, Rice, Boflon mould and dipt Candles, a
few quarter-casks of Sherry Wine, a few barrels of
Cyder, and a few quintals of excellent Tible COD
FISH—for sale by
Exekiel Hall,
No. 41, North Water-street.
December 14th, 1796.
Frejh Garden, Grass and Fiower-Seedt,
Roots, life. &c.
This tvy landing from the (hip Eagle, captain Fofdiek,
from London, . *
And FOR SALE by
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE,
Comer of Walndt and Second-streets,
A mofi capital and txtenfiix Assortment ef
GARDEN, GRASS and FLOWER-SEEDS,
ROOTS, &c. See.
Among which afe,
Five kinds Asparagus Three kinds tireffes
Four Berecole Twelve Onion i
Twenty-fivc Beans Thirteeji Radish ;
Six Beets Fifteen Turnip
Eleven Brocoli Pi.ftc« Peas
Twcnty-<i* Cabbage Savoy
Six Carret Four Parfnit* !
Three Caaliflower Tweuty-ttree Melon
Five Celery 1 Twecty-one Lettuce
Ten Cu cumber i
Common and lemon Thyme
Curled leaf and Parsley
Pot \Tarjorum
Balm Thyme Mangel
Leek Kail Shallot#
Rape Seed Rye Grass Saint Foin Lucerne
Red and white Clover Timothy, £<c. See.
With a curious colle&ion of the most eftecmed
fLOWER-SEEDS and ROOTS,
the mofl extensive ever imported into
The ab6vu are fr;om a capital Seeafman m London, and
are warranted frefli and good.
Printed catalogues may be had by applying as above.
Dec. 17. dtf.
Just Landing,
At South fireet ivharf, from r.n toard the fh 'tp Stdg
ley, Captain Hodge, from St. Peterjhurg,
The following Goods :
Ruflia Sail Duck, firft quality.
Do. Sheeting do.
Do. Diaper.
Do, Huckaback.
Do. Crafii.
Do. Mou' l Candles, 4, 5 and of the
English fi»e.
Do. White Candle Tallow.
Do* White Soap in small boxei^
Do. Cordage of fine yarn.
Ravens Duck.
Ifinplafs, xft aRd 'end fort.
florfc Hair uocurkd.
Rufiia Bar Iron.
Do. Hoop Iron.
Do- Nail Rods.
I© Tons Oakum and Junk.
St. P«terfhurg Clean Hemp..
For Sale by
Philips, Cramond, & G®.
o<sUber ti. «
- ■ ' . i ■■ -■1 ■ 1 ■';' y
A Short Delay
In the Drawing of the Canal Lottery,
In Washington city, ba« been unavoidably occafionad
by the unforeseen intervention of Mi 1 . Blodget's Lottery
—but as the major pait of the tickcts :<re now disposed
of, this is to inform the public that the drawing cf the Ca
nal Lottery will certainly commence without fail, on the
firft Monday in January 1797, and those holding tickets,
aje hereby requested to fend a ftatcißent of those fold, and
those on hand.
NOTLY YOUNG,
DANIF.L CARROLL, of Duddington,
GEORGE WALKiiR,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY,
W. M. DU^CANSON.
The Printers who gave our advertisements a place in
their newspapers, art requested to give this notice admis
sion, as the remaining tickets are expe&ed to be soon above
par, and we wiih adventurers to be timely informed
N»v. ia.
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 313, HIGH-STREET.
GEORGE DAVIS aauounr.es to hi« profefHonal friends,
and the Gentlemen of the Law, generally, through the
Union, that his late importation of BOOKS is arrang
ed, and rcbdy for Sale, from a fmgle volume to an entire li
brary, without any advance upon his former exceeding low
prices, which forleveral years past have in sb diitinguifhed 9
manner recommended them lo notice.
Printed Catalogues combining the most exteafive colkc*
tion cf the latest Englifo and Iriih Editions ever imported
into this country, are psblifhed, and • ill be delivered giatis
on application.
Orders addrefled to G. D. in writing from any distance
shall be pun&ually attended to.
A number of TRUNKS for Sale.
ALSO, TO BE LET,
A convenient LOFT, near Mai ket Street Whsrf.
ov.B. tn&f3nr
For Sale,,
By Jehu Hnlhngfivorth, & Co.
25 hhds. Weft-India Rum, 3d and 4th proof,
5 Barrels best Indigo, and,
A few thousand bulhels of Turk's Island fait.
OA. 17. d.
Old London particular Madeira Wine,
Landing from on board the barque Eagle, Capt. Bates,
and for sale by ROBERT ANDREWS,
No. 86, South Wharves.
November 19. eodtf
Cheap French China.
THE fubferibers finding it impoflihle to fhpply their
store with an)' more China from France, the prices
being too immoderate in the maiiufailorics, give no
tice that they will fell at prime coll the remaining
fteck nn hand, consisting of
Dessert Setts,
Tea-Table Setts
Separate Cups and Saucers
Groupes and Figures •
Alabaster Vases
Looking Glades, in gilt frames,
Beside« India Japan'd Toilet Delk", Chairs, Tables
nad Quadrille Boxes. PASQUIER Jc Co.
Ne. 91, S»uth Seeond-ftie.t.
December ,sth. tt»
For Sale,
By George Defchamps, No. 91,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrel*
and half baTels
Ditto Herring and Mackarel.
Smoaked Herring in barrels and kegs
Ditto Salmon, by the dozen or single one
Dry Codfifh, from one to fifty kentals
Fine and eoarfe Salt
Nova-Scotia and French Plaßer of Paris, in the ftoae
and ground, for manure and ftucco-wotk
December I. Jtf
For Sale, " "*
A capital (land for buGnefs—-That well known tavcra,
the Ewe and Lambs, North Front Street, No. 333, in the
Northfrn Liberti««; a brick house containing nine fire
places, and sen rooms well finiihed ; good stables and
chair-house, with a frame-houfe on Water street ; th«
building Hands on four lata, seventeen fa?t front each, tna-.
king a front on front-ftreet, thirty four feet, and nearly
the fame on Water-street, and is one hundred and forty
feet deep from street to street, fubjed to £8. icie. each
lot per annum, ground reflt, this property is near the hay
fcales. and public docks, easy communication with the
Delaware waters and advantageouily situated for buiineft
of various kinds-
The above premises are now rented until December
next at £.175 per annum.—Enquire of tfle Printer.
Dec lit. §iw2aw6w.
Wm, Holdernesse, No. 76,
HIGH-STREET,
Has received by the late arrivals,
A Well Selected AssokftogNT if
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
Haberdaftiery Goods,
Which he will fell, wholesale and retail, en the very
lowest terms ;
Amongst which are .
Some elegant 4-4 ind;-# Chintz** and Ctttocti, BeW
patterns
Ditko Fnrniture ditto
Ditto Dimity
Tamboured, Book, afld Jaconet Muslins
Ditto in Gold and Silver «
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine
MantUas of the firil quality
Silk and Cotton Hofivry
Umbrella* of the firft quality, afiorted
lrifti Linens, very fine, and Table Lin era
Marseilles and Cotton Counterpanes
Rose Blankets afforte^—&c. &c.
Qflober 26.
CAUTION.
WHEREAS very hrge and heavy debts are .justly
due and owing from meflrs. Blair M'-Clenacban and
Patrick Mtore, of the city of Philadelphia, merchants,
trading under the firm of Blair M'Clenachan and P.
Moore, and from Blair M'Clenacban in his separate
capacity ; to which, by the laws of the land, ail the
joint as well as separate property of the said Gentle
men, is, and ought to be, liable. And whereat
it is clearly and fatisfaftorily afccrtained, that mr.
Blair M'Clenacban, of the said firm, has cchveyed
away to mr. John H. livjlon, his son-in-law, to his
daughter, miss M'Clenacban, and to his son, Georg *
M'Clenacban, several large and valuable real ttf.itet,
as well as considerable personal property, in the city
an.l county of Philadelphia, in the county of Lsncaf
ter, Jh the county of New-Caflle on Delaware, and
elfc-where, with a view, as it is apprehended, to de
feat the Creditors in the recovery of their just debts.—
This is, therclore, to forewarn all persons whomfo*
ever, against the ]>urchafe from the said grantees, or
either if them, of any portion of the said real or per
sonal property, as the mod vigoraus measures will
without delay be takfn to render the fame liabtr to
the jult demands of the Creditors.
By order of the Creditors.
Thomas Vttzjlmont, ")
Philip Nicklin, / i
JJaac Vbarton, /- Committee.
William M'Murtrie, \
Samuel IV. Fijhcr, J
Philadelphia, December 17th, 1796. ictH.}
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE caution introduced into the public prints,
warning all persons against jmrchafing from the
grantees of Blair M'Clenachan, any portion of the
large, real and petfonal ellates he conveyed away to
hit fon-in law and to hit children was the result of
a deliberation had upon the fubjeft by a general «nd
numerous meeting of the creditors at well of Blair
M'Clenachan and P. Moore as of Blair M'Clena
chan individually. It wat no more than an execu
tion of that trust confided in the fubferibers by
those creditors : a step which it would have been a
breach of duty and honor in them to have omitted.
The very ftatcment of the fa£t therefore must dis
pel the imputation that it was either " precipitate
or vindiflive." It originated in a defne to fecurc
the property of the debtor as a fund for the pay
ment of his just debts. It was fan&ioned by the
advice of council as a measure necessary to the fafetjr
of the creditort. If the advertisement hat been
injurious to Mr. M'Clenachan he owet that injury
to his own unjuftiiiable conduct, not to the fub
fciibers who have merely publifhtd the truth ia
terms as mild as the fad would admit, and who
mean to investigate in a high court of justice the
validity of those purchalers of which Mr. M'Cle
nachan so confidently speaks.
The fubferibers therefore are bound by a sense
of duty to the creditors in general to repeat their
caution against purWiaiing of those grantees or
either of them, and to extend the terms of it to a
purchase from any other persons (if such there be)
to whom Mr. M'Clenachan may have made similar
conveyance!.
(Signed) T. FITZSIMONS,
P. NICKLIN,
ISAAC WHARTON,
WILLIAM M'MURTRIE,
SAMUEL W. FISHER.
Philad. Dee. 21, 1796.
WANTED,
As Cook, in a private family,
A YOUNG WOMAN who can produce good re
commendations of an unexceptionable character. En
quire of the Printer.
November 17.New I heat rs.
Cn FRIDAY EVENING, December 43,
• Will be presented,
A TRAGEDY, called
The Orphan ;
Or, The Unhappy Marriage,
Acafto, Mr. Warren
Caftalie, Mr. Moreton
Polydore, Mr. IVignell
Chamont, Mr. Cooper
Ernefto, Mr. Warrell
Paulino, Mr. Warrell, jun.
Cordelio, (the page) Miss L'EJlrange
Chaplain, Mr. L'EJlrange
Monimia, Mrs. Merry
Serina, Mrs. Francis
Florella, Mrs. Harvey
End of the Tragedy a new Ballet Dance, (eompofed
by mr. Byrne) called
THE BOU QJU E T :
In which will be introduced, the favorite
TAMBOURINE DANCE.
To which will be added,,
A FARCE, (written by Foote) recuced to one aft,
called
The Mayor of Garrat*
Sir Jacob Jollup, Mr. Francis
Major Sturgeon, Mr. Warren
Jerry Sneak, Mr. Harixiood
Crispin Heeltap, Mr. Darky, jun.
Bruin, Mr. Warrell
Roger, Mr. Bliffett
Mrs. Sneak, Mrs. Francis
Mrs. Bruin, Mrs. Mechtler
The French company of Comedians, having been
honored with considerable applaufeon their Rrft appear
ance, will perform again on Saturday next, and every Sa
turday, until further notice. Particulars will be express
ed in future Bills.
On Saturday the Comedy of
SflE STOOPS TO CONQUER;
Or, The Mistakes of a Night.
"Vfith a celebrated French Opera, in a afls, called
LES SOULIERES MORCLORES.
Box, One Dollar twenty-five cents. Pit one Dollar
And Gallery, half a dollar.
0- Tickets to be had at H. & P. Rice's riook-ftore,
No. 50 High-street, and at the Office adjoining the
Theatre.
Places for the Boxes to be taken at the Office in the
front of the theatre, from 10 till 2 o'clock, and from
■ to till 4on the days of performance.
No money or tickets to he returned, nor any
person, on any account whatsoever, admitted behinti
•the fccnes.
The Doors of the Theatre will open at 5, and the
Curtain rife precisely at 6 o'clock.
Ladies and Gentlemen are requested to fend their
servants to keep places a quarter before 5 o'clock, and
to order them, as soon ai'the company are seated, to
withdraw, as they cannot on any account be permit
ted to remain.
VIVAT R ESPUBL XCA!
Readings and Recitations,
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining;
Mr. F E N N E L L
UESPECTFULLY informs the Ladies and Gentlemen
. ef an.! its vitinity, that an In redu-Story
Reading will be delivered at the on Tuesday
evening next, at 7 o'clock. —Where, by permiflion of the
honorable, theTruftees of the University, the courfewill
be regularly contiuued during the winter.
Occafical admiflion tickets to be had of Mr. Poulfon,
Jun. at the Library ; at Mr. M'Elvec's looking-glass-store,
No. 70, South Fourth-street; and at Mr. Carey's, Book
seller, Market-street. 1
Dec, ii. djt.
This Day is Publiflied,
Porcupine's
POLITICAL CENSOR,
For NOVEMBER, 1796.
CONTAINING
OBSERVATIONS J
On the Insolent afld Seditious Notes,
( Attacking the Sovereignty and independence of the
United States)
Communicated to the People, by the late French
minister, ADET.
December ai. * Iw
On Wednesday, the 28th inft.
At 6 o'clock in the evening, will be fold at public
au6tion, (if not before disposed of at private sale)
at the City-Tavein,
All that capital mansion-house, stables, out-houfes, &c.
and three contiguous tra&s of land fitaate on the Weft-fide
of,Schuylkill in the townihip of Blockley and county of
Philadelphia, generally known by the name ofl,anfdown,
containing 199 acres i®i perches more or lefsand a messu
age plantation and traifl of land in Blockley, townihip a
forefaid adjoining Lanfdown, containing 64 acres one
perch.
The premises are so well known as to need no particular
defeription. Few feats in America can compare with
Lanfdown for convenience and elegance ; it commands a
variety of rich beautiful profpe&s and is remarkably heal
thy. Terms ©ffale will be made -known by
PHILIP NJCKLIN, } Attornies in
AND > fa& to
ROBERT E. GRIFFITH, 3 James Greenleaf.
Dec. 12. §teßth
Jutt Arrived,
Per fchoentr Daphne, Cflptain Morse, from Aux-
Cayes,f
A Cargo of Sugar and Coffee.
Aljo, per brig Betsey, Captain IV. bite, from the Isle
of trance,
71 Hogsheads, x puncheon, and 25 eanifters, of
Batavia Sugar
45 Hogsheads Pepper of Malabar
65,000 lb. Coffee
33.000 Cotton
4,000 Indigo For Sale by
F. Coppinger,
No. aai, South Frur.t-ftreet
December 11 $
~For Sale,
Seven elegant Seites for Buildings,
Opposite the State-Houfc Garden and Congress-
Hall; each Lot heing 25 feet front on Sixth-street,
and 120 feet deep to a 14 'eet Court, agreeable to a
plan which may be seen at the Coffee-Houfe or at the
office of Abraham Shoemaker, No. 124, S<*. Fourth
ftreet, where the Urms will be made known.
D«e«mber 16
F«r the Gazette or rat United States.
TWO WORDS OF AN EUROPEAN,
On the Conflagrationt that have,diflrcjfed this Country.
IF preferva'ion from the deftru&ive ravages o*
fire is one of the greatest interests of the public ;
the importance of it invitei thofc who have liitle,
as well as those who have extenlive kaowlcdge to
communicate it ; and the right of nations which
grants protection to the foreigner, imposes upon
him to take in the welfare and prosperity of the
people, where he enjoys it, a lharc when it is not
contrary to that of his owa nation. This is a iuf
bcient apology.
Spectator of some fives in various parts of the
United States, I'faw with pleasure, the courageous
zeal, and the iotc'ili.-enj-e of thi itizemj and Sre
companies ; but I thought I , eri cived two essential
defeats ; and I mult fupp'ife twt many others exist
■whic J h I rfid pticeivr, but which others must have
taken notice of.
The firfl of these deficiencies seems to me to be
a want of a fufficiftit quantity of hose that ought
always to be with every engine. It is nccefiary
that the firlt engine or. the spot, (at the burning of
a church for ioftance,) (had!. have hose enough, to
conduct the waterat lead as far as the bells, ami in
houses, they fliould not o:»ly reach the roof of the
burning house, but do it even if they were on the
roof of fc.me house. The men
who direst, the hole may then, with the aid of a
lyct blanket ar {kin, approach the center of the con
flagration, ?.nd cru!h hy the violent and diredt ray < r
the water, tlie violence of the deftru&ive element.
In a late fire which I witnessed to the ealtward,
three qnarters at leafl of the water were loft,
walled in the streets, they could uot aim at the feat
of the fire which was in a third story, having not
hose enouph, the enginesfp fAted-the water making
half circles like the bomb font a mortar, and the
water fell like rain on the fire of the roof ; whea
at the faine time the interior ar.d mod violent fire
was not reached by the engines. It isfcsrtainly an
acknowledged fa&, that a single engine whose hose
strikes the fire, has a more certain and a more
prompt effctt than twenty others which spout the
water in an indirect manner, and 3t a great dis
tance.
As in many parts of Europe they are obliged to
be very ecoriomical, inilead «f hose of leathei,thry
make use of a wovsn ftuff of hemp, made without
a seam, and of which a foot does not toft ten
cents. I leave the reader to judge whether a ma
nufacture ef this isgsmous and modern invention
obght not to be introduced into the United States,
at the expense of the government ?
In the second place you have never seen in this
country, ladders which are made use of in different
parts of Europe. If a building on fire ilands a -
lone, if it threatens falling, or it the tire is alrea
dy so violent it is not possible to make use of the
common ladders, to save the lives and the property
of the people, without the greatest danger, from
the common ladder ; like wife you can never oppose
the fire with advantage, because k is out of your
power to support them on any thing when the con
flagration is already violent, except on the neigh
bouring buildings, either in the fame row or sppo
pofite. In all tbefe cases nothing is more ufeful
than the lfolee ladder, which fnpports itlelf with
out help, by its superior extremity. You may like
wife employ ufcfully, (where you can get them)
the Gardener's ladders, which are double, tnd sup
port one another ; but more convenient still are the
Tripple ladders joined at the top by a triangle sf
iron, and which rife upon a basis as extensive as you
please, being secured by etamp irons. These lad
ders may be ported opposite the fire at any conve
nient dillance, like the wooden towers of the Ro
mans, which approached the walls of a besieged
eity ; then the ladders become so many batteries
from which the men caw take aim at the fire. Thir
ty or forty men can easily mount with the hose, up
on a ladder of this oefcription. S.
CONGRESS of tbi UNITED STATES.
&>■ —
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Continuation of the delate on the address in anfvier
to the President's speech.
Thursday, December 15-
Mr. Ames said that the gentl man from Virgi
nia (Mr. Giles) bad represented him as fayihg
that he took it for granted that we were 011 the
eve of a war with France. So far was this from
being eorreft, fie had grounded his expreflion care
fully upon what fell from the gentlema-o himfelf.
He said if we were on the eve of a war, as
Giles insinuated, it was above all things necefTary
that they (hould cling around the government, and
not let an idea go forth to the world that there was'
a division of sentiment on the fubjedt of the re
fpeftive duties we owe to Fiance and to our own
country. He knew not what more he could lay
with refpeft to France. He had advocated yvords
strong enough for any thing but a love-letter, and
such weic reported by the committer. It was pos
sible indeed he might not feel all the ardor in heit
favor wriich was exprefTed by other ; for
thcir's he was free to fay he thought exceflive and
pernicious. He wished molt ttordially for peace
with all nations, but if that could not be had, he
wished for an union of sentiment in support of our
national character and dignity.
So much for that fubje£t. With refpeft to
what had fallen from the speaker, it wa* possible
on so many points, and with so many afpe&s of
the fame point, in the business of several years, he
might not have a&ed confidently,tho'as to the mat
ter in question, he neither admitted nor believed any
such thing He always "afled as lie thought befl at
the time ; but at different periods he might, and
this he said merely for the argument's fake, have
acted differently. Sincerely, he was sure he had
acted, and the house would believe he had ever
avowed his sentiments as he really felt them. But
he could not fee any thing of tbtVincsnfiftent kind
in his cendutft. Admitting that the capturing of
our vefleU by the British were a6l) of hostility,
and tliere was great difference- between such ails
and 'the just causes of war, were we, he said, even
then without refledlion or preparation, or demand
of ju ft ice, to return hostility for hostility? Ihe
French had also captured our vessels, and yet no
one spoke of this as an adt of hostility, or of se
questration, prohibition or embargo, or blamed
those who were silent. If one nation committed
an adt of hostility againfl another, was it not ad
visable, rather than immediatelg to retaliate, to en
deavor to adjust the matter ty negocialion ? He
thought so, the citizess of tht United States un
queftinnabiy thought so, and that our adminiflra
tion had great merit in so fettling the late differ
ences with Great-Britain as to avoid war. It was
true that the British had taken our vessels under a
claim of right which they had to do so; and as
contraband goods were liable to be fejzed, part as
their co»du£V was clearly right by the law of na
tions, and a great part clearly wrong. So that it
was difficult to determine which were acts of hos
tility. This of course required examination of
fads, and adjulltnent of principles. The treaty
wifely provided for both. For this purpose a ne
gociacioH was opened, and was in a train 'hat he
sincerely hoped would be finally fuccefstul.
Gentlemen had been greatly offended by the
term# jultice and magnanimity, addressed by Mr.
Jay in his memorial to the British government ; b»t
now our country was threatened, wronged and in
fultcd, in a very extraordinary manner, no lan
guage was foft enough to be used towards their fa
vorite republic. This diftinftion was remaikable.
The remarkets on inconfi4ency would no doubt
ta'.ior for a solution of thi6 enigma. Our teal pa
triots would labor with them to be fatisfied why
the language of custom and common decency,
fho-jid be so (hocking in one cafe, and why even
humility and fuppiication should fecm too harfli
for offended France in the other.
With refpeft to the present situation of our
country with the French republi;;, it was no re
proach upon our government that the French had
issued complaints against us It was said the Bri
tish treaty was the ground of offence ; if so, he
hoped there was not a drop of true American
blood that was not carried wit|i tather mo'e heat
and rather more hurry through the heart, by such
a declaration. It was an insult that marked the
utmost infelenee of spirit on one fide, and its low
est abasement on the other.
No caufc of offence, Mr. Ames said, could jtift
ly be taken on account of that treaty, since the
French treaty was in common with our other trea
ties declared to be of prior force by an article of
Mr. Jay's, and were the articles of the two trea
ties to clash, those of the French would de
stroy any opposing article in that made with G.
B. so that the treaty would continue the law of the
land, the fame as if no British treaty existed. Our
juries and courts could be relied to carry the law of
the land into effrdl.
Information had been received, Mr. Ames said,
and (fated to the public in all the newspapers, that
continual efforts were making in Paris to excite a
spirit of animosity against this country, and this
by persons who were (though unworthily such) A
merican citizens. Whether the language held by
gentlemen in this house on the present occasion
would not have a tendency to encteafe, to encou
rage and to aflift that spirit, he left these gentle
men to.determine. Whether to fay we were whol
ly in their power ; that they were the only power
which could annoy our teriitory, that they were
invulnerable and irrefiflable, and we defeneelefs,
that they were in the right and we in the wrong
was becoming any charadfer but that of a French
man. If we are'on the eve of a war, said Mr.
Ames, I blush for gentlemen who can ufi such lan
guage, at a moment when the power with whom
the war yas contemplated is offering injuries and"
menaces to our country. If the event be
war, he acquitted the admimftration of blame. It
had not provoked it ; but it was, if we ma) cre
dit such various and concurring information as we
had owing to the intrigues carried on in Paris.
It had been there represented that there was a di
vision of sentiment betrixt the government and
the people of this country, and that they (the
French) had only to speak the word, and the go
vernment would fall, like other despotisms, which
they affedted evary wher* to ©vercurn. If !h*is was
the fadt, and so it had been represented, this house
and this whole country ought to (hew it no coun
tenance, he thought it the duty of the place where
he flood to make it manifeft to the French nation it
would not be borne: that in eafeof extremities he
did not balance for a moment which country he
should declare for, that of Hungers or liis own.
Mr. Ames said, he himfelf did not believe there
was any chance of war. The French could have
no pretext for it and as little intercft or dclire to
drive us to tha» alternative. As this kind of threat
he doubted not, was to answer a certain parpofe,
and was timed at the very moment when it wasex
pedled to fix it, when that buftnefs had palled over,
he supposed we (hould hear t,o more of war. We
may fuffer many wrongs, and depredations 6n our
trade, said Mr. Ames, but this country will seek
redrefi, not by war, in the firft inflance, but by ne
gocistion as before. Whatever be our govemment,
I said he, whether perfedl or not, we are bound to
support it ; and not, at such a peried to speak of
injuries and evils which are not derived from the
negledf or imptovidcnce of our government, and
therefore ought not to chill the ardor of our zeal
for its fuppott. • They are not true ; but if they
were, they should now be kept out of fight. Mr.
Ames concluded with an apology for having said so
much, as it was well known he did net propsfe to
speak often, he intended to have said but little and
hoped the committee would fee that he had been
personally called upon and therefore would excuse
him.
[Debate to be continued,]
Wednesday, December 21,
Mr. Heath callcd up the resolution which he
yesterday laid upon the table refpedling an alterati
on in the law as it relates to Revenue officers,
which after a few the propriety of
referring it to the committee of ways and mean#, it
was referred to that commit We.
Mr. D Foftfr wiftsd Ae committee of -elairns
to be discharged from the farther -conlideratioTi of
the petitions of Charles Pierras and D. S. Frank*
as the petitioner were dead. Agreed.
Mr. Blount called up the resolution which he
ycflerday laid upon ihe table refpefting the ex'en
lion of grants made to officers and soldiers killed «»
battle, te those who died in the fervicc. A com
mittee of three members was appointed.
Mr. D. Foster, from the committee of ways
and means, made a report on the petitions ot Abia
lom Baham, Daniel Burns, Jacob Belfher and
Oliver Barnct, for compensation for services per
formed during the war, which was against them,
recommended leave (o be given to withdraw their
petitions. The report was read a second time, and
the three firft cases were continued by the house ;
but a deeifion on the last, on motion of Mr. Muh
lenberg, who said he wished to give some inform
ation on the fubjeft which he had not then with him,
was postponed till Monday.
Mr. Pat ton movsd that the report of the com
mittee of commerce and manufactures made last ses
sion, refpedtiirg the kidnapping of negroes and mu
latto;) from different states, contrary to the laws of
the said states, (hould be committed to a commit
tee of the whol? house. Agreed, and made the
order for Monday.
Mr. Milledge prefetfted the petition of Jonas
Forf:b, of the state of Georgia, for compensation
for himfelfand men under his comm nd, when cal
led oat to defend the frontiers. Referred to the
Secretary at War.
Mr. Thatcher presented the petition of Samuel
Freeman, deputy poft-malter of Portland, in the
diftrifl: of Maine, praying for additional compcnfa
tion, which was read.
Mr. Coit moved the House to take up the refa
ction which he yelterday laid upon the table ref
pe&ing the balances due from individual dates to
the United States. He observed that tbofe balan
ats amounted at the time of fettleotent, to three and
a half millions, and that witk the interest paid u
pon them, they were now four and a half, and it
was therefore desirable that something should be
done in the business.
Mr. Williams said it was to be lamented that
they could not come at the principle upjn which
the eommiffioners had fettled these balances. He
thought if this matter was duly examined that
those (laies which were made creditor.Hates would
not be found to be so. He thought tjie business of
importance, and frich as might not be hurried thro'
the house. He did not expedt the resolution would
have been called up to day, and therefore wished a
few days might be allowed before it was decided
upon.
Mr. W. Smith did not think farther time ' was
neceflary for determining upon the resolution, as
it went no farther than todireit an enquiry on the
fubjeft. If this enquiry was not gone into fuan,
they (hould be able to do nothing this fefiion, as
it mult terminate on the 3d of March. He hoped
therefore, the fubjeft would not be deferred.
Mr. W. Lyman said this resolution trtight not
to go to a feleft committee, but he referred to a com
mittee of the whole. He wished to know what en
quiry could be made': The principles 011 which the
accounts had been fettled, were ol jested to. Were
a fele& committee to determine the jiiltnefs of tins?
He wished not this. He never (hould be in favor
of referring any fubjeft to a felefi committee, in
order to have an opinion exprefTed. Such rcteien
ces were only a loss of time ; he was for referring
the matter at once to a committee of the whole.
Mr. Gilbert had no objd&ion to this ftibjeCi be
ing referred to a committee of the whole, in order
to bfing it before the view of the house When,
ever this was done, he trusted a due investigation
would take place, and the matter be rightly ad*
jullcd.
Mr. Coit fafd he had hoped his resolution wa»
so framed as that no objection could have been
made to it. Every one acknowledged something
was neceuary to be done. The most natural way,
in his opinion, would be to make an application
( which had not yet been done) to the debtor
Hates for> payment ; bur, since tljey had a com
mittee specially appointed to adjust all money mat
ters, notwithstanding what had fallen from the
gentleman from MufTachufetts (Mr. W.Lyman)
to the contrary, he thuugbt it bed to dircS the
enquiry to be made by them.
Mr. Baldwin thought the resolution a very pro
per one for bringing the business before the house.
Some objections, he observed, had been made la
the principle. He believed the principle upon
which the accounts had been adjusted was such
as had Keen generally approved of ; and 'hr tho't
if the fubjeft was gone into, there would be bo
difficulty in fettling the business.
The resolution was agreed to.
Mr. Williams moved the order of the day on
the petitions of certain refugees frnra Nova Scatia
and Canada. The house accordingly went into a
committee of the whole on the fubjeA ; and a
number of papers having been read relative there-"
to, together with the last report of a feleft com*
mittee, which was against the petitioners,
Mr. Greenup hoped the report would be agreed
to, He was upon the committee who made it.
He (aid, in their examination, they could fir.d no
resolution under the old government to allow these
refugees the bounty of lands prayed for, and there
fore he thought they ought not to be atfowedv 1
Mr. Livingfton spoke in favour of the allow,
ance, and called for the leading of a former report
in their favour, which he hoped would be agreed
to.
Mr. Sitgreaves said, upon eßquitry rf the clerk,
he found none of the reports on this fulj 6\ had
been piinted. He himfelf stood in the predica
ment of many others who were unacquainted wi; h
the bu[hiels. As it was a fubje£t ot complexity,
he (hould therefore move that the committee rife,
in order to have the papers printed.
ihe committee rose accordingly, and the pa
pers were ordered to be printed.
Mr. Chiftie presented a- petition from John
Sears, for a claim against jhe.Unitcil States. Thf
petition being read, Mr. C. said it would be re«l
It fled that this c;t<* had been reported upon last;
feflion in favour of the petitianer, and that, a t; ill1 -,d palled tfiat house ; but that, as it wtnt to
liie Senate without any of tiic fafls upon which J
\ ifc claim -was founded, it had been reje&ed., He P!ii
doubted not thefe.faftj would again have the fame late
influence upon the committee of claims and upon I
that house that they had heretofore, and also with mm
the Senate, when they (hould be laid before them, had
After some conversation on a point of order ing
whether the matter (hould he referred to the com- pur
mittee of claims to report, or to a feleJt commit 1
tee to bring in a bill, it was disposed of in the for- ler,
mer way* ! Jan
A message was received from the President of Lc
thie United States, informing the house h: had apr. ' ling
proved and filmed an aft so. the better pr >mulga- to i<
ting 'he taws of the union. the
Mr. Madison, from the committee to whom was 1
referred the tnemori ! of the enmmiffioners of the W.
federal city, and that part jus the Pre'fideiifs on i
fpeerh rela ive to a n tional university, reported,# clai
refoluiion to the following effect, whiJi was refer, j per
red to a commit'ee of the whole, and made the or- rhe
der sb Monday.
RefiJlved that it is at present expedient that
authority (hould be given to eniol proper peifons
to receive, in trull, pecuniary donations, in aid of To
the donations ah eady given towards the eflablifh- i
roent of an univerfliy within the dillrift of Colum- j
bia."
Mr. Dearborn called for the order of the day on
the report of the committee of claims on the peti- cit;
tion of Reuben Colburn for compensation for be(
building batteaux and other ferviccs during the oui
war, the report was againll the petitioner. am
The House accordingly resolved itfclf into a com- eal
Biittee of the whole nn the fubjeft, when am
Mr. Dearbjrn said the claim had engaged the mi
attention of the house last fef3on, and that no cei
doubt fecmed to remain with the house on the pro- rel
priety ef dif»preeiirg to the report and allowing lib
the claim, but whether the papers had been lodged ha
at the proper office in Bolton in due time. ( Seve
tal letters and papers were read to p ove that the hu
petitioner had done ail in his power n get the »c- m:
count fettled) Mr. D. hoped, therefore, that this w;
would be one o the peculiar eaufes againll which pi
the art of limitation would not be permitted to wi
operate. 3 r
After a few words from M. 3D Fo ler ( chair w
man of the committee of claim") in which tie ac ad
knowledj'ed the justice of the claim, but that it la
was barrtd by the ait of limitation, Mr. Coit f .id, as
as some new fads had been mentioned! he wished
the repoit a be re-committed.
The piimmtttee accordingly rose, and the report
was re committed.
Mr. Gilnun, from the committee of revifal and
mftr.ifned buliuefj, made, a further report, which *
was read. Aojuurntd.
' tl
Philadelphia, ft
THURSDAY EVENING, DECEMBER it, fa|
Return »r Vciki ,g > : | 5
us -3 c Sb- i i rt
PRESIDENT ;t C £=iII A# I!
AND - » J* ji- • d
VICE l' <F.itDENT ill ~O
JS'cw Hampfiiire, b 6 _ n
Maffich.ufetts, 1613 2 \
ho? e Island, 4' ti
Connedlitut, 9 * 5 a
Vermont, 4 4 fl
New-York, iii!| f.
New Icrey, 7 JJ
Penrifylvania, l i 1413 j]
De aware, J j 1 c
Maryland, 744' 3' - t i
Virginia, 1 IJ" 1 '5 3 1
Ken ucky, I
T'nneflee,
North-Carolina, I 1 1 1 6 1
South-Carolina, 8
Georgia, ' I '
Total, 7. 1 . 65157 *3 *5 1 5I 2 i J 5 ,
In one vote given for Charles 1
Pinckney, and three for Judge Iredell. t
The voice of Humanity w»s never more imperious ,
than in its calls.forth'e relief of our fuffering brethren ,
' of Savannnah—'They mujl, they zuillßeceive afflftanre
from tne whole American Family.—Charailer, Inte-
rell, Feeling are at (lake. j j
" Precepts teach, but examples move men.
The receipts from the exhibition of the Elephart,
on the 19th inft. for the relief of the citizens o: oa-.
vennah, amounted to Seventy-Two Dollars.
—uLU-Hinu I—iwfcuw 11111 r -^SQirraßaßHßejaMaißMßaßnsa®^
Panheon,
AND RTCKETTS's AMPHITHEATRE.
Corner of Chefnut and f-txtii-flreets.
For Equest&ian and Stage Performances.
MR RICKF.TTS, anxious to contribute his mite
towards relieving the d.ftrcffcd, refpeafnlly informs
the Ladies and Gentlemen of Philadelphia, that the
emd'urtentrof to-morrow evening will be devoted
Fox the Benefit of the Sufferers at
Savannah.
The ai-n.Wnts of the Evening will be expressed in
the bills and advertisements of rhe day.
FOUND,
By a Gentleman, a SUM of MONEY.
' The owner may have it by applying at the Indian
Queen. Dec. aa. - i_
IV A NT E D,
A MUSICIAN,
Who is capable of compofmg Accompaniments to
Songs for an Orcheflra. He mud have no,other en
gagement a; a composer. Enquire at the Office of this
Paper
December n- ———
Washington Lottery.
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be ° r _
excharie«d for prizes, at the OiTice, No. L 1
ftrec" where a fonxd Numerical Book - tcpt or public
inlnecHon Airo Canal tottery Tickets for sale or ex
for prizes drawn, in the Lottery, of
Pltfarft'p'ili, C'tfy Tavern, Dee. .21, 1796. f
At a meeting of a number of the citizens of
Philadelphia affsmbled in confequeace of several
late attempts to fire the city. . J'
Hilary Baker, Esq. mayor, attended, and com. '''' c
municated to the meeting csrtain information lie t!le
had received, of ftmdry ill disposed perfqns intend
ing tofet on fire different pans of the city for the l "3 r "''
purpose of plunder—Whetenp m it was
Refdved, That G 'dfrry Haga, Matthias Sad- a
ler, Her.ry P , John Morrell, Leonard Jacoby, ', Jvt
i James Gallai ' er, Joh Shoemaker, Wm. SheafF, vl ' u
Levi HOIII worth, Daniel Smith, Jehu Hoi
lingfworth, an I Joseph HiirSee, be a committeo
to nominate suitable persons ir each wa.d to patrol ' e
the streets at nig-ht. 0
Resolved, That Hilary Baker, Esq. Samuel
W. Fidier, and Henry Pratt, be diredled to wail '" i!l
on the Governor, and requert him to ilTuc his pro
clamation, offenng a rewatd for apprehending the
■ perfor> or persons who have lately attempted to Ikc
rhe city.
By order of the m«etinp; I
GIDEON WELLS, Sec'ry. w!) ]
To the Senate and House of Reprefentat\v?s of tlx *
General AJfembly of the Commonidcdlth of Penn- ,'
fyhanik. '
JJ ... amt
Gemtlemen, j
The Calamity, by which the greater part of the
■ city of Savannah, in the fta'e of Georgia, has
• been refcently deflroycd, excites in the bosoms of '
: our conflituents, the purelt sentiments of sympathy
and forraw; and, from its magnitude, emphati
■ eally claims an intervention of the public bounty er
and benevolenoe. Permit me, therefore, to sub
i rait to your conlideration, a letter which 1 have re-
> ceived from the mayor of Savannah on this inte
- telling fut jdl ; and to recommend a prompt and ' (
; libeyalcontribu i;>n, for the relief of tile afllitled in-
i habitants of that unfortunate city.
The plcafure ef indulging those generous and j
e humane dispositions, wh eh you have often before |
- manifefted, will, in itfclf, yield an abundant re j
s ward, for any pecuniary rid, which you (ha'l be j
b pleased to beifow, on the present occasion j but, |
0 we may be ro .fidewt, gentlemen, that the-cordial I .
approbation of afl the citizen* of Pennsylvania,
will, likewise, ;!ve an honorable function to the
aft, lince it mull equally serve to display the phi- ~,,
x lanthropy of the liate, a-d to cnent the feelings, |.
, affections and intcrefls of the Union.
d THOMAS MIFFLIN. 1111
Philadelphia, 21H Dec. 1796.
1 E
<- SIERRA LEONA. £ "
d [Jin calling our eves oyer some late European papers,
we saw the following notice of afettleaaent on the coafl
of Africa, which was commenced by a fellow-townf- eh
man, and brother to very refpedtable citizen of a in
B neighbouring town. —To the friends,of humanity and f 0
the civilization of " the children of the fun," the in
formation will he pleating-.J (Col. Centinel.) ( ] )
free Port, Rinpongos, Aug. 1.
This Colony is at length eflahlifhetl, and with the
bed pro pedis. Ccftee thrives remarkably well, aad
J we have some cotton „
§ We have received accounts from the Foulah country, th
5 that in a rebellion oi'his tne Kitjg has been put I);
to death. The troubles in the interior have in some p
degree interrupted our traffic w:ih the Foulahs, who
— are the mod civilized people on this coall ; they ad
j mit an intercourse with our people and profit by it. —
They have adopted some of our methods of agricul
ture, and other branches of husbandry, efpecialiy l'ucfn
as relates to their live flock. We purchase from them
Rice, Cotton, Ivory, &c. The trade is yet in its in
fancy "and limited, but much may he made of it.
When the (lave veff-ls jre from the coast, the na
tives apply themfelvi-s to itiduftry, and manufacture
coarse clonth, which we purchase and retail again to
the getting in return ivory and rice.
BAHAMAS.
Meflagt- to the Governor.
House of AJfembly, November 15, 1796.
May it please your honour,
— WE are ordered by the House of AfTembly to
s return your honor the thanks of the house, for your
•les honor's meflage this day, and to inform yout hoiiot
that the house having in obedience to your honor's
recommendation, proceeded to (he immediate con
-IU6 fideration of the fame, came to the fallowing refo-
Cll lutiois viz.
" Resolved, that it be r-tcomnen ed to his honor
the lieutenant-governor to dispatch rivo or more,
faft-faiting veflels to f>mf ef the Southern ports of
rt, the United States of America, and tolhe British
Sa-. ports in St. Domingo, t<? notif j the scarcity of pro
visiOns at present prevailing within these islands,
•• and that the house will make provisions for the ex
pences of the fame. Also that certain bounties be
gianted upon all flour, corn, tice and peas, within
a limited extent, as (hall be imported into the potts
of NafTau and Exuma, between the 6th day of De-
S ' cember and the sth day of January next, to wit :
" Eight (hillings per barrel, upon the fitft thau-
sand barrels of merchantable slur.
the "Sixteen tierce, upon the firfl three
hundred tierces of merchantable rice, And,
It "■ Two (hillings per bnfhel, upon the firft five
thousand budiels of merchantable Indian corn or
din P eas -" . f , . r
By order of the boule,
_ * THOMAS ROKER, Speaker.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
In France they have demi or half regiments, who
' lan f, rht like heroes for their country —in America we
i have demi or half amencans, that is half American
a»d half Vrev.ch, whojffA/like devils aga'mjl their
Country —and some of this mongtel breed have so
• s to little shame of this ckaracler as to announce it in
■ en- their speeches in public places.—
this Who ever saw any among the brute kind of the
mongrel breed that was good or ufeful, except
Mules, and they are a cursed obflinate atr.imal—yet
full as willing to serve one majler as another : jult so
it is with the mongrsl or demi Americans who have
fnut- two , ' lc for attachment and ferviee,
üblic and who now are, and always have been, as oblli
: ex- uate as their foreign majlers could with them to be,
y, of in opposing our government —our adminiflration—
onf peace, our happiaeis, our tranquillity and our
fold pr®fp e ' ity> by lies the roost vile, and by. flandets the
tstf moll unprincipled. T
-
FOR THE CAIETTE OF THE UNITED STATES. Til)-,
j- — Frem
] Mr. Fenno, then'
IN a pamphlet published on Tu-.fday, under the days
title of " a letter to a Bank DireSor," is contained
; th = Wowing paragraph. _ ; raent
" I have been lefered- 1 to individuals in Miilber- t [, e y
, ry-!lreet,Chefnut-drcet,Seeond-dreet, Third- ftieet, Plact
Water-street, and other streets, as known ulurers, off tl
or agents ailing for companies of usurers ; and 1 The
have been;confidently sffured, that those very j.' le ' r
viduals (with flume be it mentioned) can, and do .
obtain discounts tegularly at two ef the Banks." m ani
0 The agents alluded to, think it but justice to p rev;
: the bank dire&ors in qtisdion, to date, that the fubor
whole contents of the above paragraph are utterly
,j and absolutely void of the fraalled shadow of foun
, dation.
O. P. S. T. U. W. X. Y. Z. &c.
For the Gazette of the United States.
e, 4 F
Si P
Mr. Fen no, Dcfei
IF the political axiom be-true that every nation BAf>
will be free iiv proportion as it is enlightened—(and "
whoever pretended to deny it) then it follows that
' f a people cannot be the noil free uulcfs they are at
the fame time the,moft.enlightened—the proposed
amendment of Mr. Chriltie was, therefore absurd,
and the little orater, was for once confident ; what-
lC ever may have been his mntives.
'r To have agreed with the ptinciple here %jd down, A
the passage fhnuld have Ween reversed, so as to read
7 the mod enlightened and the freed. This is pot
'* the only indance in which causes have been milta-
ken for confequcvcis.
c Extract of a letter fri'm Chatledon, S.'C. dated
e - 2d Dec. '96. I
" I have been jud reading Adet's lad note ta
the secretary of (late. Every mail who is
to the happiness and independence of Ms country j ew
r 1 mud fee! an indignation against the promoters of wol
j that mod scandalous publication. Mod certainly and
j neither the French government nor thg minift'er fccc
i would have offered fueh an in fuft, if they had not J e 'g'
| j J been encouraged to expect a powerful lupport by a
' j wicked pany in this country. What is Peter Por- j
| d ' cupine about ? 1 have seen nothing from his hu-
morous pen, refpefting the eleflion of President. j
The great Jach'tns are the moll prc.prr ohjedU for
° 3 ' his attack ; these are Jharks, and more woitlty of
his notice than such a little fpirat as S K."
I
CHARLESTON, December 10. lie I
Extraß of a letter from Columbia, ( South-Caroli
fs as) tlulet! December 7. b c£ .
a j{ " The eleiSois have ihis moment concluded their cur
nf- ele&ion, when JeScrfon and Pi'itjkney were unani- I
"a tnr.ufly voted for. The negro business is now be
nd fore tne house. of,
in " »«Since writing the foregoing, Major Butler, in ar.c
the house of representatives, mentioned that a num- thc
bcr of gentlemen had requeiled to know if l.e ma
would fuffer himfelf to dand as a candidate for wr
Cover' or, whi .h he pofitiveiy declined, declaring toi
rv, that'nothing would indo i" him to aft in a public J
put Hation :— in couhqucr.ee of which, Charles
nie Pinckia-y has quit- his inteniion of S.nator ro Con- !ia
' l 0 grefi, and 13 now a candidate for that office. t>v
ELECTORS. Ed
'Jefferfon's Ticket. I\u
Edward llutledge, fen. 113 th '
em General Pickens, m Ix 2 jj"
in- Judge Mathews, 112 p> .
Colonel Taylor, no pr
na ' Captain Simkins, 110
John Ruiledge, jun. 109 ?■"
1 10 Jokn-Chefnut, 109 at
William'l homas, 109 fr
Adams't Ticket.
A. Vandeihord, 3 1 ai
; • H. W. DefaulTure, 29
General Barnwell, 28 C
t0 David Rair.fay, 28 .
our Robert Barnwell, 28
Nathaniel RufTell, 28
>. John Bull, 24
;o „. REPRESENTATIVES IN CONGRESS.
c f a . CharleJijn DiJlriß.
William Smith, ek£led.
)nor Beaufort and Orangehurgh.
|Qre John Rulledge, jun. 839 eledled. v
8 0 ' Elnathan Hafitel, 86 (
Georgetown and Cheraw.
0 . Letr.uel Bcr.toii, 777 elided, r
, I{ j 3 Tridram Thomas, 300 c
. tx ! Joseph Blyih, 1.51
, s Camden Dijlriß.
n Thomas Suinpter, 854ele£ted. t
, oltß Richard Winn, 831
j) c . Pinckney and IVafhirgton.
~-j . Major W. Sajiih, 947 elected. .
hau- Abraham Nott, 830
William Will, 652
j iree Samuel Lowrie, 67
Robert Andcrfon, 63
- Ninety fix Dilri3.
„ R. G. Harper, elected."
New VbRK, December si.
r ARRIVID AT THIS PORT.
Days.
Ship Rachel, Hacker, Gibraltar —
ES. Three Sifters, Wood Qreer.ock —
, who Brig Sally, Arnold, Turk's bland 37
j we Schr. Archibald, Macej', Halifax i»
■ricas* S'°°P Sun, Davenport, Hofton 40
then" Captain Leonard, arrived yesterday in 16 days from
ve so Martinique, informs, that on leaving there, informati
it in on was received from Baibadoes, of the-capture of a
I Spariifh fliip of a 8 guns, by a British frigate —after ex
of the I change of Several broad-fides.
, . Some transports, with invalids from St. Vincents,
- C and several American vedels, were to fail from Marti- !
~y { i l nique in a few days, undfr the convoy of two frigates,
ju!t so were to leave them in lat. 12. o. H
have On the 18th inft. lat 40. 9. N. long. 71. o. TV. spoke
srvtce, the brig Sally captain Earl, from Cape Francois, bound
oblli- to Rhode llland. She had 7 feet water, wind south,
0 and heavy rain.
FRENCH FLEET.
d our Froip Halifax, Nov. 24.
ets tne Yesterday arrived here, fchootier William, captain
T Hargrave, in s days /roci Breton Harbour, Fortune
1 »
' i
Bay, (Newfoundland). The lift accounts from (he
French fleet were, that thev failed from St. Pierre's on
the n'ight of the loth of Oflober. They li»d, been 3
days at that place, and were employed night and day
in watering the fieet. Before their departure they
burnt all the buildings which remained of the fettle
mcnt. They were seen by some filhing boats the night
they failed, fleering S. E. Afterwards, by a boat from
Placentia-bay, thev were informed that they were seen
off the banks of Newfoundland, far to the north east.
The people who have been on board of them, agree in
their testimony that these ships art ve y badly fitted—
fevera! of them very leaky, particularly the admiral 5
(hip, which they were continually pumping—badly
manned, and the principles of I'herty and equality so
prevalent in the fleet, as nearly to deltroy all order and
subordination among them. f
STOCKS.
Six per Cent. « - - - - * ifyto to 17
Three per Cent. - -. - - - »■ 10fo
4' per Cent. - -- -- -- -- 14f
51 per Cent. - -- -- - - - 14/4
Deferred Si* per Cent. - 11/8 to )
BANK United States, - 19 to 20 per ct
— Punnfylvania, - - - - 43 to 24 do.
— North \meiica, - - - - 40 to 45 do.
fnfurance Oomp. N. A. shares, - 37 1-2 to 40 per ct.
Pennfylv. 2 1-2 to 5 per ct. below par.
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
On London, at 30 days, par to 175
at 60 days, \ par to 170
— at 90 days, 162 1-2 to par.
Amsterdam, 60 days', per guilder. 40 "
90 days, 41
Clocks and Watches.
LESLIE and PRICE,
No. 79, M UKET-STUt ET, PriuADßLftirA,
HAVE IMPORTED, by the late arrivals from
I London, a large afiortment of WARRANTED
WAiCHES,|eonfiliing of horizontal, capp'd'and
' jewel'd Gold Watches, with fecostds, of ftpprio*
f I workmanfljip and elegance j alio cjpp'd and jewel tt
' and plain Gold Watches ; capp'd & jewell'd, capp d,
r i seconds, day of the moHth, and plain Silver Watches ;
t ' eight day & chamber Clocks; elegant French Clocks
, ! with marble frames; eight day and thirty hour, braU
.works, &c. * •
Decembet 22, 1796. d2m
! s W A N N'S
r Riding School, Horse Jcailem? & Infirmary.
f -Jfdioining the Ptiblic Square. Market Street.
T. SWANN
RETURNS hisfincere thanks to gentlemen by whom
he has been employed, during his rtfidM.ce in ihi- CitV, a " d
'flatters himlelf that ihe faccefs ol hit efforts, in the numerous,
ofcftinate and dangerous difcafrs in Horses, 111 which he has
been consulted, together with his moderate charges, will le
r cure their future lav.irs and recommendation
i. He now begs leave to inform them and the public a: large
that his spacious and commodious premises, ereited ror the
ourpofes aboved- scribed are (**" Cor the reccp'ion of p(.Mls
of either sex, vAo wilhlo beinflruth d in the Art of Riding,
n and the light meihod of governing their horses. fa astt. ad=
. them with ease, elegance, and lately— their hotfe» will be
ca.efully and expeditiously t.roke, for eve.y purpflie,
;c made obedtrot to the will ol ihe riders ; the natural powers
>r wiucn are Ihutupitt ihem', will be unfolded bv art, calbng
<7 forth unilormit\ of motion, and giving to that noble animal
all thntc beauties of action which providence has so bountt
lully bcfto&ld 'hi them. , .
es Alio, at his ofpua. every difor crto which the horie ia
D> liable will be mated accordn gto the rules of art, confirmed
by long 2nd repeated e«pent r:ce n
The utility of the above inlii i ion has never been qneliion
ed,that it hat long been wanted in tni.<ctty, evipfy gentleman a
Hud will muni (eft, and T. Sw nn as tnefi-d iftabliihcr ot
5 the veterenary ?vt, lol'iciti and iclics uro- fuppott ottlpat
public (which he i- ever anxious in fervjng) to enable him to
biing it to The idea of a lubicri- r L>n tor i-hat
2 pu r pofe his beeu hinted bv feye al gentleman, : '" LO
[O prOmove the mftitt lion- the amount ot each fubfenp
jq be returned bv fee vice* in any of the departments he pro eiies,
agreeable to the rate of chargct ftat/-d 'in his-'hand bill.
fubicriptjpn is now open, and ihe fig natures 01, manyrefp;ct
>9 able gentlemen already ob»ined. He there!ore itijorms hit
30 friends and fu- h Ladies and gentlemen 10 whom he has not
the honor of being known, tharhc lhall in a few days take
the liberty of waiting upon them and folicking their iupport
3 1 and protection.
29 NB. Horses are properly prepared for those Ladies and
28 Gentlemen who with to be inftrutlcd. '
II Nov. 3. " h * r - -
2 l OLD THEATRE.
20
24 Thi« Evening, Thursday, December 22d, 1796,
Signior F A L C O N I
ed ImpreHed with the highest sense of thi applaofe
which the Ladies and Gentlemen have afforded his last
performance, proposes to give another, cor.fifting of a
1 variety of experiments, never before exhibited, and
Ihew his gratitude by the greatest exertions.
He has not thought it nccefTary to enumerate the vi
ed. rious objcfls with which he means to entertain the
company, 38 he does not wish tonntit-ipate the plealure
and surprize he flatters himf lf to ;<lTord them ; and
which he hopes he ha>. already fufficiently proved by
his former exhibitions, presenting always t the Ipedta*
.cd. tors new experim ntsnevet annonnced in the bill.
However, at the r. q iefl of ? party, he will introduce
The Mysterious Candle,
' Which will bring to light the most abstruse question
that can be proposed—and again the
Battle between the Elephant and the
Ourang Outang.
With some improvements to render it ft ill more pleasing
—-and oilier new scenery. I o conclude With the celebrated
Rope Dancer,
Who will this time ftiew hircdeif in a masterly manner.
I.
FOR SALE/
A very Valuable Eitate,
~ /CALLED T IVITTRNHAM, fttuate in the
37 Vvl township of Upper Derby, and county of Delaware,
12 _ i-l miles from Phiiad.lphia, and half a mile from the
*° new Wester» road 1 containing 230 a«res of excellent land,
45 of which are good \natered meadow, 90 of prime wood
from llnd> an d the reft arable of the Hrft quality. There are
«ati- on thepretnifesagood two story brickhoufe, with 4 rooms
:of a on a floor, and cellos under the whole, with a pump-well
r ex- of excellent water in front; a large frame .barn, (tables,
and other convenient buildings ; a fmbke-houfe and hone,
•ents, fprine-houfe ; two good apple orchards, and one of peach
larti- cs. The fields are aßin clover, except those immediately
rates under tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advantage
' of water in each of them, which renders it peculiarly con-
feoke venient for grazing. .
11 nd The Gtuation is pleasant andhcalthy, and from the high
- ,Vi cultivation of the"land, the good and th«
vicinity to the city, it is very suitable for a gentleman's
country feat.
The foregom,; is part of the estate of Jacob Harman,
deceased, and offered for sale bv
aptain Mordecai Lewis,
>rt»ne 1 OA'gi. law Sarviving Executor.for s.rr.E,
A PLANTATION,
ABOUT tz miles from this City, situate in Abington
Township, Montgomery-Comity ; containing 70
acres, a new ttonc houfc,two stories high, 2 rooms on c
floor,fire placcs in each, a stone kitchen and stone jpring
house, over un excellent spring of water, a barn, stable,
fheds,barracks, &c. A large apple orchard, and a variety
of other fruit, about I a acrcs of good meadow well water
ed, and wood fufficient for fire, and fencing the place.
Poffcffion may he had the lft of April next. Property in
this City will be taken in exchange. Enquire it No. 37,
Arch-Street.
Philadelphia, September 13,1796. ttftf
TO BE SOLD,
A LEASE for /even years,from the 2sth March next, in that
capital and beautiful FARM* tailed
PROSPECT-HILL,
Situated within one quarter of a mile from the Brandy win*
Mills, and haU a mile from the borough of Wilmington.
THE dwelling houfeis built of stone, two stories High,
genteely finished, and containsrour baivdfome rooms on
a floor, betides an entry, withcnpital garrets, and convenient
cellars It is generally thought to command the most a
greeable profneft of the Delaware, from the fouice ot that
rivei to «hc Capes. This profpefl ia gieatly exr.bel!idied by
■a full view of avail bctdy of meadow, through which the
Cbrifliana and Brandywine crceks are seen winding 111 beau
tiful meanders. Near the house are a Kitchen", a spacious
stone stable and hay loft, a barn, a carriage house, mil*-
house, &c. and a well of as puie water as any on the conti
nent. The garden contains an acre and quarter of land, a
fcounding with fruit, and particularly with peach trees, oi
he very bed kind, brought from Maryland) and in full bear
ing. There is, moreover, on the place, a young, apple
begining to bear, and several old trees that produce
abundantly, besides cherry and other ornamental trees, in
great numbers. The farm consists of near sixty acres of land,
of good quality, and clear of incumbrances, <\xcept taxes,
twenty of which arenow in excellent clover and timothy,
and ten more will be ready tor lowing next spring. A re
fidenee of nearly 8 years has. convinced the fubferiber that
the situation is remarkably healthy. The great post road
from Philadelphia to the Southward runs within seventy
yards of the house. In a word, the beauties and conveni
ence of this situation cannot be enumerated in an adverlile
ment, and when examined, will probably command the at
tention of any person who isdefirous of living at one of the
mod elegant country feats on the continent. The pure Infer
mayenteron the premises net Ipring, or perhips, this tall,
if application be immediately made to Doctor NICHOLAS
WAY, in Philadelphia, to Do&or WH RTON, on tke
prcmifes, or, in his absence, to Mr. GEORGE TRUII T, in
Wilmington.
A quantity of excellent Hay, Grain in the ground, some
Stock, See. may be had by the p»irchafer at the time of sale.
Nov. 7 eodtf
James M'Alpin, Taylor,
No. 3, South FourthJlrect,
RETURNS his grateful acknowledgments to his
Friends and the Public for their liberal encouragement,
and begs leave to solicit a continuance of their favors.
He has on hand an extensive aflortment of the
Mojl Fajhionable GOODS,
And of the bed quality, suitable for the fcafon.
At thi» (hop Gentlemen car. be furniflied withthe ted
materials, and have them made up in the neatest and most
Fashionable manner, and on the fhortcft notice. He will
thankfully receive any orders,-and pay a prompt and
pun&ual attention? to them.
November 10. w»
The Elephant
T$ RETURNED FROM BALTIMORE.
THE public are refpe&fully informed, that
this animal is to be {»en every day, from 8
o'clock in the morning till fun down, in Mavkct
ftreet, No. io6, south fide, between Third and
Fourth-ftrcets.
Admittance a quarter of a dollar, that every ci
tizen may fee him.
C 5" At the request of many perfors ik will be
exhibited od evenings frcm five to eight o'clock,
at half a dollar each.—The room will be well
lighted. November 7.
Treasury of the United States.
OTICE is hereby given to all pcrfons who are or
JL x may be Creditors of the United States, for any sums
• P the F aided Debt, or' Stocky baring a present inter'tji of fix
*er cerium per annum. ;
1 ft, That pursuant to an A& of Congrefi parted on the
48th day of April, 1796, intitled an a«ft in addition to an
a&, intituled " An a<fl making further provHion for the
support of public cr«dit, and for the redemption of the
public debt," the said debt or flock will be reimbursed and
paid in manner following, to wit. " First, by dividends
41 to be made on the lafl: days of March, Junrand Septem
" ber for the present year, and from onethoufand
seven hundred and ninety-seven, to tht year one thou
<4 sand eight hundred & eighteen inilufive,at. the, rate of
u one and one half per centum upon the original capital.
" Secondly, by dividends to be made on the lad day of
*' December for the present year, and from the year one
41 thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year
" one thousand eight hundred and seventeen inclusive, at
" the rate of three and one half per centum upon the ori
" ginal capital ;and by a dividend to be ma 'e on the last
" day of December, in the year one thousand eight hun
" dred and eighteen, of such sum, as will be then ade
. 41 quate, according to the contra<st, for the final rcdemp
-4< tion of th: said {lock."
2d. All diftin&ion between payments on account of
nterefl and Principal being thus abolished by the eftabiifhf
ment of the permanent rule of reinAurfement abova de
cribed, it has become neceffury to vary accordingly the
powers of attorney for receiving dividends; th. public
reditors will therefore observe that the following form
3 eftabliihedfor all powers (A attorney which may be
granted after the due promulgation ot this notice, viz.
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that
2 of
do male, tons.it ute and appoint
of my true and lawful At-
me t andin my name t to receive th: dividends which are y
or fball be payable according to law, on the (hers describing the
flock) Jlanding in my name in the booh of (here describing. the
books of the Treasury or the CommiflTioncr of Loans,
where the frock « credited) frvm (here insert the com
mencement and expiration of t jme for which the power of
attorney is to continue) with power alfm an attorney or attor
nits under him,for that purpufe to make andfuLjlitule, and to do all
letiujul atls requifitefor effecting theprcmifes, hereby ratifying and
confirming all that my said Attorney or hisfubfritute >fcall lawful
ly do, by virtue hereof.
In tVitncfs hereof I have hereunto set my Hand and Seat lb?
day of in the year.
Sealed and Delivered
in p referee of
BE IT KNOIVNy that on the day of
tfore me perjvnally came
within named and acknowledged the above letter of attorney to be
his aft and deed.
In tejlimeny whereof J have hereunto set my Han i ind affix
ed Seal the day and year lajr afortjuid.
Given under my Hand at Philadelphia, this twen- ;
tieth day of July 1796, pursuant to diretflions
from the Secretary of the Treasury.
SAMUEL MEREDITH,
Ir&afurtr of the United States.
July v* tij
Territory of lie Un'ilzd States, .V, IV, of the 6bi».
Turnir
n v. C Foreign attachment.
0 Parker, J
e Notice is hereby given,
£ To JOSEPH PARKER, late of Kalkafkia in the (now)
c » coußty of Randolph, in the Territory aforefaid, Mer
-7 chant, that in pursuance of the laws of the Territory in
that cafe provided, a foreign attachment hath issued out of
e * the county court of common pleas of the said county,
n ag*:nfl the lands and tenen-ents, goods, chattels and ef
-7» fe&s, rights and credits of the said Joseph Parker, at the
suit of George Turner, and that unless the said
.Joseph Parker appear by himfclf, or Attorney, to give
special bail to such suit, judgment by default will be en
tered against him, at the court to be held ih and for the
at said county, next, after the expiration of twelve months
from this date ; and the estate or eftatcs so attached, will
be fold for the fatUfa&ian of all creditors, who {hall ap
pear to he justly intitled to a demand rhereon, and (hall,
apply for that purpose. D.tted at Kafk.ilkia, aforefaid,
this twcnty-r.inth of March, 1796.
d JOHN RICE JONES, Attorney for Plaintiff
—
Horses taken in,
at For the Winter Stafon,
'y And fed on clover hay at the Subscribers place, 12
miles on the Briflol Road, where good stabling is pro-
vided, and great care will ba taken of there
William Bell.
l " Nov. *3. m\tff2wmthtf.
a-
r Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64., South Second stkket.
ZC
'"THICKETS in the Canal lottery, No. a, for sale-—a
, 8 * A Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
y' fche late lottery.
e . Cheek Books kept for examination and regiflering, fcr
at the City of Wafnington, No. 2, and Pattefon Lotteries,
id both of which are now drawing—information where
ty tickets arc to be had, and prixes exchanged for undrawn
ii- tickets. A complete lift of all tht prizes in the late New
e- Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
t- examination.
Ie The fubfr.iber solicits the application of the public
f T and his friends, who wilh to purchase or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates > Bills of Exchange or Notes, Hcufes, Lands,
&c. or to obtain money on depofir of property
.c %* Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
sale at Ten Dollrrs each, which will be drawn early in
M the Spring.
. Wm. Blackburn.
Phiiadelphia, August tS, 1796. ( mth
— » —
Brokers Office, and
u COMMISSION STORE.
No. 63 South Third street, opposite the national new Bank.
' OAMUEL M and JOHN VAN REED,
O have entered into co-partnership, under the firm of
FRAUNCES & VAN REED, in the bufmefs of Brokers,
Conveyancers and Commiflion merchants. They buy and
fell 011 commiflion every species of flock, nptes of hand,
?fl bills of exchange, houses and lands, &c.
Money procured on dcpofits, &{.c. &c. all kinds c (
ill writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatness and
nd dispatch; accounts adjufled, and books fettled, in the
moll corred manner. Coifilant attendance wHI be given.
They solicit a lhare of the public favor ; they ire deter
— mined to endeavour to deserve it.
N. B. The utmofl fecrccy observed.
SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES,
JOHN VAN REED,
at • Philad. August 27, 1796. m&wtf
g ——
: t- City cf Washington.
id
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11,
:i- FOR THE IMPROVEMENT 0 t THE
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent ) »0,000 dollars, & i
idwelling-houfe, 5 ca (h 30,000, arc J no °
ell 1 ditto 15,000 & ca!h aj,ooo 40,000
I ditto 15,000 Sc calh 15,000 30,000
— I ditto 10,000 & calh 10,000 20,000
1 ditto 5,000 & calh 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
1 cash prize of 10, boo
x do. 5,000 each, are • 10,000
xo do. 1,000 - - 10,000
)j e ao do. 500 - - 10,000
ln 00 do. 100 - - io,oco
do. 50 jo,ooo
he 400 do. 15 - - 10,000
nd 1,000 do. 20 - 20,000
ds 15,000 do. 10 - 150,000
n. ——
nd 16,739 Prizes.
#- 33,161 Blanks.
of
il. 50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
of
ne N. B. Tofavour those who may take a quantity of
ar Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars willbe the i-ast drawn
at ticket, and the 30,000 the i.ast but one :
ri ~ And approved notes, facuring payment in either monay
ift or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be received for
n- any number not less than
e- This Lottery wkl afford an elogant fpaciiiirn of thepri
p- vate buildings to be ere&cd jn the City of .Washington—
Two beautiful defigiw are already fclc&ed for the entire
of front; on two of the public squares; from these prav. ings
hj it ispropofed toereet two centre and fourcoraer buildings,
le- as soon as poflible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
he them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
lie the manner defcribeJ in the fchemc for she Hotel Lottery,
m A nett deduction of five p«r cent, will be made to defray
be the necessary expanses of printing, the furplut
will be made a part of the fund intended for the National
'tat University, to be erected within the city of Washington.
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are*
old off.—The naoney prizes will be payable in thirty day t
It- after it is finifhed J and any prizes for which fortunate
ii, numbers ate not produced within twelve months after the
he drawing is doled, arc to be conftdercd as given towards
he the fun 4 for the University ; it being determined to fettle
is, the whole buftnefs in a year from the eVung of the draw
it- ing, and to take up the bonds given a 6 security.
of The real securities given Cor the payment of the Prizes,
r- are held by the President and two Directors of the B,ulr>
ill of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
uJ mount ot the lottery.
</- The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of
the late Contmilfioners afliiled in the management of the
>h> Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake this arduous talk
a second time on behalf of the public ; a fufficießt num
ber of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that {he
friends to a Kitional University and the other federal ob
jedts may continue to favor the design.
By accounts reoeived from the different parts of the
if Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets
have been i.r.t for sale, the public are assured that the
x- draw » g will speedily commence, and that the carc and
caation unavoidably ncccffary to insure » fafe disposal of
n- th« tickets, has rendered the short suspension indifpenlabU.
as SAMUEL BLODGET.
«§, Tickets may be had at the Bnnk of Columbia ; of
James Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter Gilman, Boston t
of John Hopkins, Richm. nd j and of Rickard Wells-
Cooper's Ferry. e »
Bank of North America.
THE STOCKHOLDERS are hereby notified that an
tleilion for twelve Direclofs for the en filing year will be
held at the Baqilt on Monday the 9th of January at ten
O'clock.
RICHARD WELLS, Cashier.
Dee. 6. §t9j.
Waihmgton Canal Lottery,
NO. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorised
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the Ci,ty of Walhington, fro-i th Po
tomacto theEallern Branch Haroour.
The following is .he SCHEME of No. X.
Viz -1 Prize of 20,00 c dollars, 10,000
I ditto 10,000 10,000
7 last drawn 7
Tickets, each } 35,000
6 ditto 1,000 6,c00
10 ditto 400 4,000
ao djfto 100 2,000
55 5°
5750 ditto 12 69,008
, To be for the Canal, 16,1158
5850 Prizes, 175,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
•t'.V The Coinmiffioners have taken t!ie Securities re
quired by the aferefaid aft for the punilual payment at
the prizes.
The drawing as this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as focji as thr Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after th*
drawing is finilhed, ihall be confidcred as reltnquilhed for
the benefit «f the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed J NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, o/D.
LEWIS DIIBLOIS,
GEORGE WAi/KEK,
Wm. m.duncanson,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of V/aHußjjion, Feb. 11. $
Paterlon Lottery.
raising fixthouf&nd fix hundred and iixty-feven
dollars and fifty cents, by a dedu&ion of fifteen per
cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a price, viz
I Prize of 5000 dollars is dollars 5000
I iooo 1000
i 500 500
5 ZOO lOCO
zo 100 aooo
99 50 4950
zo® is 5000
zooo 10 zo.ooo
5 Last drawn numbers 6f 1000 dollars each, jooo
' 2.13S Prizes. 44.450
4018 Blanks.
►
r 6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44>450
[ By order of the Directors of the Society for establish
ing; Ufeful Manufactures, the fuperin&endauts of the Pat
erlon Lottery have requested the Managers to offer the
foregoing Scheme to the public, and have dire&ed them
to refund the money to those persons who have purchased
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
n this Lottery.
The lottery hanaftually commenced drawing, and will
continue until finiflied. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
may be seen at the office ot William Blackburn, Nb. 64
soUth Second street, who will give information where tick
ets may bt procured.
Dated this 17th day of Jnne, 1796.
J. N CUAIMING,
JACOB R. HARDENBERG, > Managers.
JONATHAN RHEA, )
STATE OF THE WHEEL.
1 Prize of 5000 - - , - 5000
1 1000 ... 1000
I 500 - 5»o
5 300 - I»GO
10 ico - - aooo
90 50 4500
165 15 - - 1 - 412J
The five last drawn tickets, 1000 e.ch, 5000
Being all the valuable prizes, besides a full propor
tion of the 10 dollars.
As the Lottery is considerably more than on« third
drawn, the value of the undrawn tickets is great
ly increased, and it is worth the notice of thole
who hold tickets inthoold scheme, that they can ex
change t-heir tickcts for thole in the above, if they ap
ly soon, and at a moderate advance coivfidering the
now real value of an undrawn ticket.
The tickets being nearly all fold, the drawing in
future will be oftener, and the Lottery soon finiihed.
November 12. m
f By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
< Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64,
South Sccondjlreet.
; SCHEME of 7 LOTTERY,
3 For raising Sixty Thousand Dollars, agre<ably to an AO of
the Legislature of Pennfylvaawi, pallid during the last
y feiTion, for building a Stone Bridge over the Rivei
Schuylkill, at th'- Borough ot Reading, in the County of
Berks. Dollars.
1 Prize of 20000 Dollars - d»,ooo
1 do. of t©,oco do. • - 10 coo
3 do. of - 3,000 do. - 15,000
4 do. of 2,000 do. - - B,oco
90 do. of j.©oo do. - - . ao,oco
39 do, of 500 do. - - 19,500 ,
80 do. of 2co do. ... j6,eco
c aoo do. of xoo do. - - 20,06 c 1
6 300 do. of 50 do. - - 15,00 c
s x do, of 500 do to be paid the poflef- )
e for the firft. drawn no, \
5 do, of 3,000 do, to be paid poifenbrs i
of Hie five tail drawn nos '.S' 0 * 0 -'
; 9,400 do. o 15 do. : - 141,000
10.054 Pri/.cs 300,000
10,046 Hlanks
c 30,000 Tickets at Ten Dollars 300,000
' All Prizes (hall be paid fifteen days After the dr« wing
finiihed, upon the demand of a pofleflor of a fortunate
ticket, fubjeft to a deduction of twenty per cont. 'I he
0 Drawing will commence as soon as the Tickets ate difpofrci
of, or perhaps sooner. of which public notice will be given.
e Philip Miller, Peter Kerjhner, William IVilman,
5 Hiejltr, Jumes Dimmer, Thomas Dundas,
5 James May, John Otto, John Keim, Daniel Cracjf,
A- Sehajlian Milltr, Commissioners.
f Reading, May the 9th, i7q6-
Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. 2, to be had at the
above office, where the carlicft information of the draw
s ing of the Wafliington No. a, and Patterfon Lottery's,
: are received, and checkbooks for examination and regif
i' tering are kept.
O&ober 7. nawtf
Le Breton,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
Pupil of the cdchrjt-'I Mr. Dubois, lite Dentist to ' > ■
Kino; and Royal Family of France, member of r
College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris,
Keeps a complete aflortment of every tluug neccfe* '
to be used for the
Preservation of the Mouth and Teeth.
Patent Mineral Teeth, and Human & Ivory Teeth ;
Dentrifice in powder ; Opiate ; exsellent Elixir fVjr
sweetening the month and prefrrving the teeth—lie
also furnifhes Brulhes and foft Sponges.
*** He lives in Chefnut-ftreet, No. 135, abeve
Fourth-f!r_'et.
November 16. tts
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM M'DOtTGALL will open hisfchool on Mon
day the jtft inft. at ten o'clock in the morning, at his
Elegant hew Ball Rooms,
In Fourth, between Chefnut arrd Walmit Street#.
Hours of tuition for young ladies, from 10 to 1 o'clock
on Mondays, Wedirefday, and Friday mornings; and for
young gentlemen from 6 to 9,o'clock on the eveikings *
the fame days.
In addition to a number of new cotillions, he means N>
introduce a variety of Scotch Reels
Not;. The firll pra&ifusg ball to be on Tuesday c
vening, the firft of November, and to be continued every
Tuesday, during the season.
For terms, &c, enquire at his honfe, N0.134, Markct
ftreet.
OA. 17. tthf
A Manufactory FOR SALE.
A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufa&ory, fitiiate
in a convenient part of the city ; the works almost new,
on an entirely original conftru«ion, and built of the bed
materials, and may fire set to work immediately. Per font
who wilh to pure ha !e, are requeftcd to apply at No 279,
South Sccond Street. Srptcmber 13. t t f tf
Twenty Guineas Reward.
RAM AW AY from the fubl'criber on the 7.3d O .Sober,
a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSES j 21 years
old ; afcotrt 5 feet S inches high ; had on a mi*«d green
cost, with a green velvet cape and oval yellow buttons;
a llripcd veil; a pair of dark spotted pantaloons, and
whole boots much worn. It is probable he may change
his name and dress. He hds been accullomed te driving
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will be
paid for fccuring him so that the fubfenber may get hurt
again, and if brought home all re&fonable charges paid by
Robins Chamberiaine.
Eafron, Maryland, Nov. 10. 14 fjmiawif
Samuel Richardf.t
13 ESPECTFULI.Y informs the pentfemii
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE it. the
city of Philadelphia:
The Subfcrlption Room will be furnilhed with all tJie
daily papers published in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos
ton, Baltimore, together with thole of the principal con
mercial cities of Europe—Tkey will be rajaHarly filed
and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Sonpes, Jellies, IceCreams, and a variety
of French Liquors; together with the usual refrefbmcnts,
will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous l.iquors, and the
approved Malt Liquors frqir.Lottdon and other breweries.
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and «arli-ft
productions of the Scafon.
Large and small Parties, or fiogle Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with Btcakfafts, Dinners, or Supper-, at
Honrs moll convenient to themselves—a cold Collation is
regularly lupt for conveniency, the Billof Fare to be had
at ths bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furniflied, and
the utmost attention paid to cleanliness, and every other
requisite.
0" Sttiufct, RienAßDETwill bchappy to receive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the FubliV at
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfelf that nothing on his part Ihal! be wanting to pre
fcrvc that patronage with whith he has been so diltinguifli
ingly honored. .
Philadelphia, April II). mwf
Treasury Department,
September 28, 1796.
NOTICE is hereby given, Lhat proposals will be re
ceived k the office of the Secretary of the I re
until the expiration of the fcrft day of Mar«h next fn
fuing, for the supply of all rations which may he ramiired
for the use of the United States, from the firft day of
June, 1797, to the thirty-firft day of May, T798, both,
days indufive, at the places and within the diftrl&s hire
after mentioned, viz. At Olwogo; it Niagara ;; at
P jefque I Be; at Sandefky Lake, and on bandufcy
River; at Detroit; at Miclulimackinac; at Fort-Frank
lin; at Piitfburgh ;' at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hai*iiton ;
at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-Jsfferfon ; at Grenville; at
Picquc Town and Loramies Store; at Fort Adams; at
--Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance; at ?.ny pkice below Fort
Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Eric; at Fort
' Steuben ; at Fort MaHic ;gut any plate from Fort MafTae
to the south boundary of the United States on the river
MiffiCppi; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiatanon.
If supplies ITiall be required lor any posts or places not
1 mentioned in this notice, all such supplies (ball be fur
-1 nifhtd prices proportioned to thole to be paid at the
r ports before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed on
I bctv/een the United States and the Contra&or.
.The rations to be supplied are to confiitof the fol
> lowing articles, vit.
> One pound two ounces of bread or flour.
> One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounces of
' pork or bacon.
Half a gill of rum, brandy or wbilkey.
One quart and half a pint of falt.~\
Two quarts of Vinegar, ( , .
Two pounds of Soap, per hundred ration*
One pound of Candles, J
The rations are to be furniflied in such quantities, a* that
there Jhall at all times, during the said term, be fuflieie-rit
1 for the consumption of the troops at Michilimackinac, D
troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, for the term of fix montht in
. advance, and at each of the other ports, for the term or"
1 at lead; throe months in advance, in good and wliblefome
provilions, if thefame shall be required, it is to be uiJ
der.load, that the Contra,lcr is to beat the exf encc aed
» rifle of iiTnirg the supplies to the troops at each "poll, ami
1 that alUofles iiiftained. by the depredations of an enemy, or
by means of the.trqops of the United States, ihn.ll be pai«t
r for at the price of the article captured or deitroyed, ,?
she depositions of two or more perf'ons of creditable ee -
railers, and the ccrtificatc of a commillioncd officer, ai
■ certaining the circumstances of the loss, and the a'n-.oui.t
of t'ns at titles for which cor.ipenfation fliall be claimed
OLIVER WOLCOT'i,
Secretary of the Treafery.
PRINTED BY JOHN F£ N N
—No. 119—-
C H F. SNUT-STJt EET.
(Price Fight Dolkrs par Annum.]