» . y &y: -•
\ ette ?fthe Unite* States, & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
* THURSDAT EVENING, NOVEMBER 10, 1796. X.
——— J — TTZ~~T. 7 Z7~ 1 ~ For Sale. I JOHN MILLER, Jur.. Acs.
w-6 FOR SALE,
7 HE SHIP M ART,
SAMU L PARKER, Mastm,
Two hundred tons burthen. Apply to
JOSFPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MARY is not fold in a few days, Jhe will take
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above. !
October ji.
jpgjrw For New-York,
v\jThfSehvontr Mary,
" '' Jofiah Douglafs, matter ) will fail in a
fe'v^davs, and take freight very low. Apply to
. . Jafepb Anthony XS Co.
Nov. 3- r- 6 .
Tuft arrived, and will this day be ian
tied from on boar J the brig FAVORITE at Chafnut |
street wharf. Tr „, r^,
ji c Tons bejl Rufjia Clean HE MP ,
t6 I ons old Sibtr flit I K >N.
«oo Coils brll.Ruffi.' OO.<Q \GE. aflSrted frees,
4|OG Piece* brown RufTl SiiEEiINGS,
ico |ql(&duck,
2qo Piece* Ravf-ns do.
so sea her beds and
A tew pieces assorted DI PER.
pQk SALE BT
Joseph Anthony and Co.
The above menti >ned BRIG
p will filiu a few days, and tak. freight on
m He a<e'terms for Boston or Salem, for
-3svvhich or paflage, apply on board or as above
Prober v d
' FOR LONDON,
Jgj£ The capital ship GERES,
jpiWSji.To fail soon:— For freight or paflage
, pr l r nA vv unnniiT£ Sc Co. or
John Vaughan,
September 10. Front-ftrcet.
For Liverpool,
- The Ship DOM J NICK TERRT,
vkjSifi' r* JACQB Dehart, Matter.
Ha? a part of her cargo engaged. —
For freight or passage apply to the inaf
ter on board, at the whar. of the sub- I
fcribers, or, __
feffe Iff Robert Wain.
Nov. 1.
~ For BRISTOL,
PHIL A DEL PHI A,
J&wks&Sfc. • Theodore Bliss, master.
A new ship, on her second voyage, with the best
accommodations for passengers, and is intended to fail
with all expedition. For freight or paflage apply to
the Master on board, or to
Thomas Iff "John Clifford:
Who have just imported in- fiid vessel, and have for
sale, besides their general allbrtrfient
A quantity of fine drawn and common (harp and
Hat point NAILS ; double & single rali'd Sheet Iron ;
Iron Pq»s, Kettles, and Iron Weights, of all Czes j
London and Bristol Pewt<*r in caflcs, assorted ; boxes
of Tin' Plates ; cases of Men's, Women's and Boys'
Hats ; crates of earthen and flint Glass tVare ; crates
of Phials; boxes of Window-Glr.fi ; boxes of long
and (bort'Pipes j Copper in Sheets ; Oval Quart Bot
tles in Ttampers; also, a few casks of bottled Beer,
and two hales of Superfine Broadcloths and Caffi
jneres. o<Soher 27. mStthiw
The Brig MART,
, Lying at Meffirs. Willings and Francis's
■wharf,Wrthcn 1000 barrels, built in Philadelphia in 1793
of live oik and red cedar.—She is well found, and may
1 be sent to fca it a', small e*ycncc For terms apply to
Gurney Iff Smith.
da, 6: dtf.
For Lisbon,
'/ ■ 7
' The Danilh barque l-enetentura,
Samusl Stub, Master,
A good vessel of about two hundred
-jtfiT — 'oils ' For freight or paflage
apply'to "—-
Jtjft & Robert Wain.
Nov. 7» d.
On TUESDAY EVENING, the Bth inft.
Merchant's Cdjfec-Houfe,
. The Schooner Lucy,
lying at Chefnut-ftreet wharf; a fine, stout
built vtffcl, one hundred and fixtten tons burthen ; in
every refpedt well found, anjJ may be sent to sea at a
final} expence—th« inventory may be seen at the
Comptmg-Houfe of the fubforibers, or a; Footman
and Co. auftion^ers.
Joseph Anthony Co.
Nev. d
2 For lale, freight or charter,
THE BRIO
Stephen Smith, Master,
AN entire new veflel, ninety-three pons burthen, com
pletely found, and may be sent to feu without any
expenle. For apply cn board, at Clifford's wkarf,
or <0 JOSEPH AMTHONY & CO.
_; " 9 •
lot Charter,
the Ship JOHN BULkel r,
'-J!*, Ayr lis Stockley, Master.
''I J An excellent live-oak and cedar built 1
' < .. of about 3*oo barrels burthen.—Ap
« ply to
Jeffe & Robert Wain.
Nov,
For Sale.
TheSh 'P CHARLOTTE, -
stout vcfil'l, jbout i;o tons bur-
Well found and may be sent to
sea at a small expence.
Apply-to
"Joseph Anthony and Co.
Nov. 2. ' dx.
Irish Linens, &c.
Imparted per the Jhips GkCgow, from Dublin, Lj brr '
ty, from C*rk, and bug Mentor, from Belfijt,
4.-4 and 7*B Wide IRISH LIKENS,
In whole and half bores,
Assorted from Xld. to 4s. sterling—Also 5-4 wide
Sheetings, and low priced yarn and wonted Hose.
On Hand,
7-g Wide Lawns.
Dianers and Table-Clothi
A fctvtieWWlekfnraTTd Ch-cta
A few bales Flanr.cl»
Cork and Belfaft Sail Cloth, Nos. I and 6
ai Boxes ■ (" 6by 8,
10 Ditto > Window Glass, j 7 by 9,
5 Ditto 3 C. 8 by 10.
The above mentioned Goods are all entitled to the j
drawback, afid will be disposed of by the package on j
reasonable terms.
James, Clibborn & Enghili^
" No. 6, N. firont-fWeet.
loth mo. 19th. dtf
: OLD
London Particular Madeira Wine,
In pipes, hog (head 9 and quarter-caflcs, .
Landing this day at Chefnut-ftreet Wharf, and
for sale by
yofeph Anthony & Co.
Nov. r. d
Fashionable Waistcoating.
GEORGE rfOBSON, No. 25,
SOUTH THIRD-STREET,
Has received fcr the Diana, from London,
Clouded and ftrip«l Spanish Sw anfdowu
- Ciourferi K iniowt »vl Matefltiaa
Striped do. and do.
Figured Manillas
Scarlet figured Erminets
Printed Florinetts
Do. Caffinets and Caflimeres
Superfine printed Quiltings, peweft patterns
Also, per different arrivals,
A large and general aflortment of Dry
Goods,
Suitable to the present and approaching season.
November 5. dtf
Just Landing,
At South Jlreet viharf, from cn board the jliip Sedg
ley, Captain Hodge, from St. Peterjlurg,
The following Goods:
Ruflia Sail Duck, firft quality.
Do. Sheeting do.
Do. Diaper. <•'
Do. Huckaback.
Do. Craih.
Do. Moulfl Candles, 4, 5 and 6, to the lb. of the
jinglifh file.
Do. White Candle Tallow.
Do- White Soap iu small botes. 4
A). Cordage of fine yarn.
Ravens Duck. l :
lfingla.fi, lft and |tnd fort.
Horse Hair uncurlcd.
Ruflia Bar Iron.
Do. Hoop Iron.
Do. Nail Rods.
10 Tons Oakum and Junk.
St. Peterftwrg Clean Hemp.
For Sale by
Philips, Cramond, & Oa.
October 11. $
- J — —! S _2_
10 St. Croix Rum,
j Pipes Vinegar,
For Sale, by
' Ezekiel Hall,
No. zo, Penn Street.
Nov. 7.
Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLER, jun. & CO.
Have received per the William Pcnn, in addition to
their own afforment,
A consignment of twenty trunks of Calicoes, ele-
F3nt London patterns ; arffo a fe\V" cases of handsome
Button* WUUh will be fel lat a short credit, on very
returnable terms, by the package only.
° a - r 4- dtf
THIS DAY rUBLIWEB,
By J. ORMROD, No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet,
(Price 12 i-2 Cents)
The President's Address
Tu the People of the United States,
Announcing his intention of retiring from public life
at the expiration of the present constitutional term of
presidency.
September 20.
No. 28, NORTH SECOND-STREET.
To be Let,
• A j ,rs * I ce, - , j' in Walnut-ftrcetiuft above Fourth-Street, that
is floored with two inch plank, atd will hold upwards as ,a 0
pipes of w ne. r
Also, a Stable and Coach-house, that will hold four hori
fesand twecarriages; and several stores in Fourth Stree;—
Apply ts
George Meade.
Who has for sale,
25 boxes of Castile soap
Red Lisbon Wi.,e
A few pipes of b'.ll of wine
A f«w barrels ot Irish mess beef
And a few barrels of fhiubiead.
NoV - d, 3 t.
FOR SALE,
A few hogflieads of choice No.v-England RUM
A number of barrels of BEEF, and PORK
And a few kegs of LARD, of a superior quality
Enqu.rt at N«. 71, north Water-Hrcet.
November 8, 1796 <] t f
For Sale,
By Jehu Hollingfwonth, Co.
»J hhds Well-India Rum, 3d aad 4 th proof,
5 Barrels befl Indigo, and,
A few thoufandbufhcl. of Turk's Island fait
OA. 17.
d,
For Sale,
By J- WARDER, PARKER & to.
An Invoice of Qordage,
Confifliiig of diffcrrnt sizes, from i 1 inch cables down
' to rope of 2 inches, of different lengths: Imported in
the snip Swift, from Hull, and entitled to drawback.
- SeF'.. 27. dtt "
TO B£ SOLD,
A LOT of C-AUKD, 164 feet 7 inches/font on South
Wattr-ftrect rJlf ' ounding on the Delaware about the
fame width, with a whart thereon in good repair On the
north fide aMjiir.ing I'uu alley, is a large and well built
dwelliag hoisfc, anil countiag hotife, ceipmunicating with
each other, 47 feet widt, a fpaciois kitchen, and other
well planned accommodations., and below these a {lack of [
flores 6z fee; irt front, by •')% feet jn length, built a few
0 | years ago; on thfe remainder tff the lot 011 Warer-ftreet,
11 there ire two ancient brick dwellings, a Cooper's (hop, &
a frame fiore, now occupiidby Mr. Alexander Tod, and
bounds adjoining the ilores at the heirs-os the late Joseph
t. Wharton. It will be better described by drafts and pans
of the ground, and buildings, to be seen at JOHN M'IL
COCKS's compting honfe, on the prenaifes, and of whom
particnlars of 'lale may be obtained.
The whole will be fold tegctker, or detacked as a. ay
bell suit the purchaser. Nov. 5 §
d For Sale,
AThree-ftory BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chcfnut
street, between From and Second streets, in which
Messrs. James Calbraith & Co. have for many years (and
now do) carried bn bufme/t.
~ Poffeflion will be given in one month, or sooner.
For terms apply to. WILLIAM BELL, or
HECTOR CALpRAITH.
Aprfl ii. 5
Sales of India Goods.
The Cargo ®f the-fhip Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cal
cutta and Bengal^
CONSISTING OF
A Large gene; al afTortmcnt of Bengal and Madras
COTTON and SILK GOODS.
AMONG XVIUC*"-ARE
A variety fine worked and plain Mujlins,
Doreas, &e. Also,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
In boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER,
Y For Saje by
Willings Francis,
No. 21 Penn Street.
June 8 §
■
r _ The Cargo of the Polacre Independent,
CAPTAIN CATHCART, from Alicant and Lis
bon, landing afthe fubferifcers wharf—
28 Pipes of Brandy
1% Bales of Spanish wool
j do. of Annifeed
7000 Bnfliels of best Lisbon Salt
So Boxes of Lemons
For file by WILLINGS 8c FRANCIS.
* ALSO,
Seventy Hogfhifads'gf prime JAMAICA SUGARS,
received bv the iliip Doininick Terry, Capt. De Hart,
* Prom Kingston.
Sept. 13. d
• A CAPITAL ASSORTMENT OF
DRY GOODS.
John Miller, jun $c Co.
Exclusive of their own Importation now opening,
Have received by the William Penn, Caroline And Diana
CONSIGNMENTS,
Which comprize a capital aflortment to open a
Dry Good Store.
—u&hlon'gfl them are—
Common, super and (uperfine Cloths,
Piain, twill'd and ftnp'd Coatings,
Baizes and Flannels,
Point, role and QufFil Blankets,
Plain and puntea Caffimeres,
Swanfdowns,
Printed Calicoes,
Scotch Threads,
Hofitry.
They will be fold either in whole, or in j*rt, by the
package, on terms which render them an objeifl worthy of
attention to purc-hafcrs. dtf Oil. 21.
, The Elephant
IS RETURNED FROM BAL TIMORE.
'! ' I 'HE public are refpe&fully informed, that
JL this animal it to be seen every day, from 8
o'clock in the morning till fun down, in Market
- street, No. i©6, south fide, between Third and
Fourth-flieets.
Admit ance a quarter of a dollar, that every ci
tizen may fee him.
S Cs* At the request of many pevfons it will be
| ex ilited on evenings from five to tight o'clock,
fe |at half a dollar each.—The loom will be well
lighted.
November 7.
. lauding,
Out of different vejels from England, and for fait
by the fuhjeribers on repfonable terms,
" S u ?, eifine and comm °n cloths, and caffimers
o Ribbed and llriped do. do.
„ Bankets, mottled green and silk rugs.
* Superfine, blue, Claret, and common coatings,
Kcrleys, Bear-lkins, plains, and Halfthicks,
tvVanikjm, Sergey and Flantjals,
Britifb Ingrain Carpeting,
Hatsaffortcd in csfes of 12 doz. each.
Chocolat chintzes, printed Callicoes and Handkerchiefs,
rear let Caramah, and Scarlet Snail,
\ arn, Worilcd, and Cotton hollery, V
Beavers, Thiekfetts, Velvets, Corduroys, &c. &c.
BufFand drab .Genpa Cprds-of a superior quality.
a h- 1 !Id - 10 <1- Hails, and fry.ng pans,
o n „H^T Cnt of 'r C n nmDnEerry ' Cutler )' aud a variety
ol India cotton, and Dfk gouus.
Tbonias & JoJhua Fijher.
A I(V. .. S> Dock-iltrcet.
Also by the Ghfgow from Dublin,
Iri / ?" Li nensaffortedin boxes of 30 pieces,
do. Brown, Glazed Linmn. r
- ° a " dtf.
To be Sold, *
The Time of a smart, active Negro Lad
Who h.'.s Eleven years to Jtri't
u qUire 3t K °- s*' Scuth street.
(Jclober 18.
JOHN MILLER, ju± g Co.' ,
No. 8, CHESNUT STREET,
Have Imported in the late vessel* i; em Europe, See.
AND HAVF. 10R SALE,
A general affortinent of GOODS, suitable the 1 ,ufurj—'
Amongfl which arc,
BROAD ami narrow CV.OI'KS,
Plain and twill'd {JOATINPS,
Rose ITripeel and point BI.ANKEFS,
FLANNELS ani l) VISES,
HATS in cases.,
IRISH LINENS,
INDIA QUODS c p n -rally,
A ConSSflWtffih.x of Ii<ONMON'.i£RV,
Comprising a capital affortmcnt to open a ffore—inclu
ding Thirty Caiflcs as NAIL**. This invoice will lie fold
entire on very advantageous terms.
September io. d ■
Wm. Holdernesse, No. 76,
Al GH-STJ<££T,
Has received by the late arrivals,
A Weil Steeled Assortment of x
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
Haberdafh'ery Gocd«,
Wkkh he will fell, wholesale and retail, en the very
lov eft termfc :
Amongji twine!j are
Some elegant 4-4 and 7-8 Chintzes and Cotton*, r.e\?
patterns
Ditto Fnrnitpre ditto
Ditto Dimity
Tamboured, Boole, and Jaconet Muslins
Ditto in Gold and Silver
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine .
Mantuas of the firft Quality
Silk and Cotton Hosiery
Umbrellas of the firft quality, assorted
Jrith Linens, very fine, and Table Linens,
Marlcilles and Cotton Counterpanes
Roft Blankets assorted—See. See.
QStober a 6. d * ,
< ■ 1. 1,.. . ... - a. ■*— —
Loft Lalt Evening,
At Amphithe tr», (supposed to be taken iy
forne villain out of a gentleman's pocket)
A red Morocco--Leafl er POCKET-BOOK,
Containing about 185 dollars in banknotes; three notes
of hand ol' Rofs and Simfon, No. 304, 305 and $06, da
ted nth l«ft Augaft, .payable 60 dafs after date, to the
order of Paul Sienaen, together for 5150 dollars; aft order
of Mrs. Ann 1\ acpherlon, from Paul Siemen, on Lach
lin Mac Neal, El'q.at Port-au-Prince, si r 100 dollar*; l>t—
fides leveral letters and papery of Doufebut to thepreprfe
tor. The notes of hand and order are without endorfe
rpent. EIGHTY DOLLARS REWARD, is offered to
any person who will dilcuve- and secure {he tliief, ana
FORTY DOLLARS for only bringing the above menti
oned notes and papers at No. 119, corner of Front and
'Mulberry flreets. d Ocl. 11.
The Creditors of Scott and M' Michael^
formerly merchants of this city, and who failed in the
year 1763, or 1764, (and from whom tke fubferiber pur
chased bills of exchange to amount of feveraj hund- ed
pounds sterling, which have la.n ny him ever finpe.J at
requested, every man ot thsm that is living-, to meet at «
the City-Tavein on Tucfday, the ijlh of November next,
at 6 o'coik in the evening, in order to oblige Charles
Cox, formerly of this city, now- of New-J{rfey, and John
Bayard, formerly of said city, and l'peiker of the House
of Assembly as said state, now of Brtmfwick, New-Jerfcy,
assignees of said Scott & M'MicFiaei, to coiivr'forward a.-J
pay over the monies they have had is their hands belong
ing to the creditors these 3a or 33 years. Some years a*
go the creditors were called together ; Mr. Cox appear
ed in behalf of himfelf and Mr. Bayard, and alleged that
-hey were apprehensive they might lie brought' Into trou
ble if they parted with the money (which 1 apprehenj is
some thousands,) as his Bi itannic Majeity bad a debt due
him for government billsit was however agreed by the
creditors met, th it thf assignees should take the opinion of
counsel; they did so, and it was that they would be Me
in dividing tke money among the creditors. I urged M>.
Cox to bring the business to a final close ; his aufwer
it would be but a trifling sum; liiy reply was, ifeytr Jo
trifling, I would have my proportion ot k. It has how
ever lairiover.
I therefore hope the creditors will • now corne forward
and oblige the assignees to divide whatever they have, and
they Cnght to pay interest too%
George Mease.
Philadelphia, ad November, 1796. dt jN*
The Creditors of Van Vleck and Barton,
and William Barton, & Co. (who failed in the year 1784)
are earncftlj requested to meet at the City-raver on
Wednesday the 9th November, at 6 o'clock In the evening
in order to oblige the surviving affigneev, Stcph.n Ati'.lifl,
and Andrew Hodge to close these affairs, john Chand
ler, dcceafed, who was one of the once offered
to the fubferiber nf6 in the pound for his debt, which is
for a returned bill of 8000 guilds, with 'cbics «.a,iiages
?.nd interest, and the assignees have never paid but sj :i> the
pound, though they advertised goods belonging to Wjlli;sn
Bartop & Co. in the year 1784 or 1785 , .nd allowed e
very creditor the lit efty ef buying to the amount of i f in
the pound of their debts.
George Meade.
Philadelphia, Navember ad, 1796 dtgN.
The Creditors of Clement BiddW & Co-:
are requested to *n. et at the City-Tavern on Monday the
14th inft. in order to oblige the affignres to a fettMticnt
of then affairs, which have lain oyer rh'uc twelve years: "
the subscriber's demand is ior a returned bill of i.opol. ster
ling, damages 10 per cent, and interest.
Geo'rge Meade.
Philadelphia, Jn November, 1796. 1
N. B Chan.. Middle's name \» as inserted by mistake
as an assignee. It appears he is only an age it aspoir.ted
by them. ' ...
The fortgoiig ad-vert iffments urea good fperimen as
1 coM gi vr a further one if it was vecefary.
STOP IHE 'IHILVES !! f~-
LAST Wednesday Evening. October 19. the
hours o, 7and 100 clock, the bed loom of Mr Ricketts in
O'Elle-'shotfl was entered, either bv means of fa fc keys,
or at the Window, by some villain or villainy .ho mud have
been acquainted' wi h the fltaation of the r.c,of<. (as the door
was found locked after they had Committed the ih'tf ) who
took away from amongst leveral trunks, ONE which^ '■ con
tained a valuable parttf Mr. R.ckett's v „operty,-but of winch
he is not yet able to afe.riain the contents par icularly. Af
ter bringing the said trunk a*ay, and emptying it of up
wards of a thousand dollars in cash and bank notes, the vil
lains left it behind the circus, during the time that the per
.ormances of the evening were going forward-
It U earncftly requelted, that all tavern-keepers on the ftagfc
roads, and thelerry houses, as well asallcivil officers, may
be: watchful in iecunng lufpicious perlons, wholly h ve a
redundance of cash, which their appearance would by no
means bespeak them to be poltffed of.
Cne hundred I)ollars Reward
Win be given for securing tke thief or thieves, and a fur.
OaTi fi:curln « them with the property.THE PANTHEON,
4,;d'R/CXJZTTs's
IqUtftrian and Siagc performances, -Corner of,
Ch«friut and Sixth-ftrcets
i ™~~~*
THIS EVENING, Thurfdiy, November 10,
I The Public ire refpe<£lfully informed that
Mr. FRANK£En, From London,
And ant of the Managers of the Royal Circus, will
tnake his firft appearamce in America, and exhibit fe
'veral pleasing
Felts in Horfemanftiip.
In particular, he will, for this night, pick up a
pin from the grotfnd, the horse in full speed.
Majler Franklin, 9 years vlfl,
(From ARley'r Amphitheatre, London)
Will perform 'several fieafing Feats :
On a single Horse, in full speed, for the 4th time
in America.
Ground and Lofty Tumbling.
Clourn to the tumbling, Mr. Spiiiacuta.
Equestrian Exercise's,
Br Mr.RICKETTS, Mr. F. RICKETTS, Mafoer
H'JTCHINS, and Mrs SPINACUTA.
Clbwnto the Horfemanfnip, Mr. SULLY.
Mr. Ricketts, in particular, Tor this night, will
Leap over a-Pole 10 feet high.
"The whole to conclude with the Grand Serious Pan
tomime, under the immediate direflion of
MefTrs Stilly and Spinactfta,
The DEATH of CAPT. COOX,
Tfi the Ifiand of Owyhee, in the Pacific Ocean.
'With the Original Music,"Dances. Decorations, &c.
The Srene/y Painted by Mr. Shnydore.
■Captain Cook, (of the Resolution) Mr. Sully
Tirft Lieutenant, Mi. Rickettt
Midfhipmsn, Mi. F. Ricketts
Sailors an'd Marines, Supernumeraries
INDIANS,
Tereboo (King of Owyhee) Mr. Tompkins
Perea, (the favorite lover of l£rhai) Mr. During
Priest, Mr. Duraug
Warriors, Supernumeraries.
Koah, (revengeful lover-os Frnii) Mr. Spmacata
Emai, (the Kings daughter) Mrs. Spinactiti
_ , . ) Mf=. Tomt>krns, Mrs. Darang,
Female Islanders, p aiid Miss Robinson
In*ftl. the methbd of ttfirtlhip and mairiage ce
remony in Owyhee, with a bcautifui/View of the
Island.
Manner of a Single Combat, with Battle Arts.
In i£l 11. the arrival of Captain Cook in the Ihip
Resolution; his reception by the Kin}.' and Warriors
ef Owyhee ; a War Dance by the Natives , their
Preparation for War, and manner of Sacrifice, with
An exaM reprefentat'wn
Of the Death of Captain Cook, by
the Warriors.
In .aA 111. the Funeral Ceremonies made use of
V Owyhee, with a Proceflion\>f the Natives to t"he
Monument of Captain Cook, with Military Honors.
The whole to conclude with
An awful representation of a Burn
ing Mountain.
Mr. RICKETTS takes this opportunity of inform
the Ladies and C*ntleme» who attend the R'ding-
School, that he h», at eonfidtrable expense, engaged
Mr. Franklin, to give lessons in the art of riding and
managing Harfes, as he finds it impossible to attend to
it himfelj, "• conftquence of a variety of business
which he is at present engaged in. '
*«£ The Ladies and Gentlemen who secure feats in
the day time, are tequefted to attend punctually at 7,
as the performances are so arranged a> to conclude by
jo o'clock—the doors will open at 6.
Box, 7s. 6»l.—Pit, ,;s. 9i.
Tickets: tobe had of Mr. Ford, at the ticket office in
Chefnut-ftreet, from ten to three o'clock each day.
Silver Tickets, to admit for the faafon, to be had
, by applying to Mr. Ricketts at the Pantheon, or at Ocl
leri's Hotel.
Days of Performance to be Monday, Wednes
day, Thursday and Saturday.
SALT PET RE.
A large quantity*# Daußle-Refine'd Salt Petre for
sale at No. xj, South Third-street.
November 5. <]tf
Befl Boston & Nova-Scotia Mackarel,
Excellent Halifax Salmon in bolt.
47 bbli. prime Coffee,
"Best Boston Beef,
Codfifh in bd«. '
Spermaceti Candles,
Spermaceti, and -
Northern J Oil,.
Mould and dipt, tallow candles, of t superior
quality.
A few boxes excellent brown soap,
b Bales of Corks.
40 Pipes excellent Lisbon Wine.
A few fecks of Feathers.
A few bales India Muslins.
• FOR SAI.E nr
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & 00.
October 31. d
•James Mufgrave,
GOLDSMITH & Jt.fFKllPk,
No. 4i, south Secnnd-ftrvet,
HAS just received an aftbttmint of Plated Ware
and Jewellery Plated Tra and CofTt: Urns, CaflFee
Pots, Tea ditto, Cufttrrs from 5 to 2 bottles, Sugar and
Cream Basons, Bottle Stands, Baikete, high Candlellics,
Brackets and Chamber ditto, Braiichrk Sconces, a variety
of Silver and Plated Shoe I.a thets, ;>pvrr<, Is'c.fs'.-. war
ranted of the best plate; Ladies and ticniknu-ns Guid
Watch Chains, Seals a-.d Keys; Necklaco. Neck Chains,
Eear Rirgs, Finger Locktrs. Brs-ttk Pini, Stone'
Knce-Bucklcs, with fcany other a. tides hi the above
Dranchcs.
He has likewise received an' <*terifi,ve itToruncnt o,
japann'd tea and coffee tJrns.'jx-ifi.n, blue, brov n'
black and goM.
All kinds of work in the gold aud film-line; minia
tures set, and hair work executed aaul'ual.
November 9. tn th *- f
Any Person
Who is veil acquainted with the River
MISSiS I P p I,
And will give Direaiosta for la.Uug mtu the fame,
that can be depended on, fh ill.be generovfly ward
ed for bis information, provided lit -will leave ilie
diretf ions with Mr. John Fenno, printer, Philadelphia,
er Edmund M. Biuut, l\uwhurj j«rt.
November 3. iaw»u»
LONDOI>I, September xe. #
1. TOULON.
The capture of Toulon by Lord "Hood, forms
one of the mod important incidents of the present
war, and the paititulars ot it are bigljjy iiitereuing
at the present moment. For thit reason we con-
II ceive the following- article, extracted fr«m the
y French deputy Ifnaro's answer to Freron, which
throws a'ftrong light 'on the circUmstances that pre
ceded and followed that event, will not prove unac
a ceptable ; at the*''metime this detail may serve as
an answer to the Republicans here, who are apt
to blame the conduit of the Enolift oh that oc
casion :—
" The crime of the yift of May had just been
perpetrated, and the ardest Jlepiiblicans of the
C 3<sutb, enraged at the triurrpo of rhe Mountain,
lose in infurreftioTt, to tevenge tl>e Convention.
Their caufc w?s focred, but they Were subdued.
The Mountain flufted withioccefE, prdftribed them
in a maU. Nutirerous kaffedds were on rhe poi it
;r of being trc&ed by FrerJn ? all convenience for
provifiorti for tt.it town wa> iiiteieepted by land,
and it was unable to proetire any bj lea, the pott
being blocked up by theFnglifh. Toulon wat re
duced to the dreadful dilrmma of fufemittinjr cither
'"* to the Mountain or the Englifl), and of furrendtr
ing itfslf either to the mercy of Robefpierre-and
Freron, or to that ef Lord Hood. The former
» threatened the-city with fcaffoldt, and the latter
promised to break them down ; the former condrtn
ned ut to famine, and the latter offered to supply
ut with corn. Freron brought the constitution of
1793, diflated by Robefpierte, in the presence of
the executioner, and written with the pureffi blood
of our representatives j Hood proposed
so us to acknowledge the incient work of the con
stituent assembly. Under circumstances, some 1
of the inhabitant! were weak enough to ptefer
bread tfc death ; the conflirotion ®f 1790, to the
anarchical code of ; ti\e mitigated ancient re
gimen to l-he new regimen cf terror; andthe future
despotism of Prince* to the present tyranny of Fre.
' Ron and the di<3atorfhip of Rbbefpierte. H»«.
*Tr grievont this crime may be, Frbhin and the
Mouatain mud attribute it to tlteir usurpations,>
cruelties, and cnnt?». were ite only caofe.
The author then proceeds to the recapture of
p Tsulon, the cenfequencet of which hedefcribci in
s the following manner ; " The great number of
r peffons accused of federalifip, and all rich and cau- -
tious inhabitants fled with the Englifb. The po
pulation of Toulon, which amounted to 28,0e0
j iouls, was reduced to 8000. Pursuant to« Procla
mation of Freron, ordering all good and loyal eui-
zent to lepair lathe Camp de Mars, 300* citizens
e proceeded to that place. The new Jiajdanapalus
made hit appearance on hoiffback, surrounded by
cannon, troopt, and the furious vvorlbippert of their
„ God Marat. These cannibals fell on i>e assembled
ciu'zent, and chafe their viiftims, as fancy, pafiiou,
or chance direfteQ. One fei%ed hit enemy, another
hit rival { fom« their creditors, others the hutt>ands
" of women they had seduced. All eagerly grasped
the most wealthy. On a signal given by. Freion,
J the air resounded with ths cries of despair, and
c , numbers of slain were heaped one on another ; Fre-*
s ron cried out, that those who Were not dead should
raise themfeKes; the-wounded dicHe, the canson
thundered again, and all who did not periih by
s their fire were put to the sword. Upwards 0/ Bco
' citieent were thus inaflacred wsthoot judge »,r
1 jary."
At Warwick affixes, Jones and Binnt, txro mem
i bers «f one of the "Democratic foeieties in London,
werefißdicVed, under the last aft for (lie puniThment
of treason and fedilion, for delivering certain poli
tical lefturet at Birmingham ; in the oourfe of
•_ which they used several seditious Bxprfßlont, parti
cularly in the indi&memt. One Bsthurft was also
indicted fei seditious words -But \Villiam Smith,
a miicrial witness for (heptofetution, bejiig absent,
they were all admitted to bail, on their own recog
rimnces of £. 500 each ; and the indictments are
removed int« the couri 0/ king's bench, For trial.
The tthafge agaiuft Bathurfl was for faying at a
'public meeting in Birmingham, " Citizens, 1 very
much approve of what hus been said. I beg leave
to acquaint you, that I can answer for all the mcm
bers**- thit society, who art fctmly dttetmired t«
fuppoit your society. . The inhabitants of Bir
mingham can make armt, and will make
myfelf am prepared with a dagger.* 1 *
Jonet and Binnt were charged with uttering -a
r great variety of seditious wmds, among which were
Will you submit to be ilaves, or will you be
' —1 *i!l lofcjhc last drop of my bload to ob
tain a reforrri in Parliapient.-— king has grant
ed it to the Corficant, but hat refufed it to hit na
tural born fuHj&is," fee.
At Someifet an action was brought against Geo.
Donidborpe, Esq. of Somerlon, for not
duty as a magiiirale, in order to suppress a riot on
the 28th of jfitly 17p6, which the cvidcace endeft
vored to prove happened on that day in Sorjierton.
1 he jury founc hira guilty—Judgment is to be ,
givcmn the court of king's bench next terra.
e : NEW YORK, -November^.
d LEGISLATURE OF NEIV-rORK.
r ' Yelterday at one oV.ock having been assigned for
- 'hat ptirpofe, the Senate, preceded by their fer.
a jeaut-al-arins, moved in procofftOH to the govern
;> ment hotife, and prefemed the following sddrefs
n the "P cn ' 8 B
, The answer of the Senate of the Hate Nrw-
York, to th« fpcech of bisexcellrijcy John lat
Governor of the said state. '
Six,
The occasion which hat catlei? ut together «t thi,
- early lea ion, to make choice of elcGort sotf ot 6 p r ,.
fideot and Vice Pref.dent of tfce TJuited States,
r pielents rfelf to ut, as oni of the greatest naimnj
magnitude. "
, " nnab,f ma «. now pirfidet
ever the Uu.ted Sutet, yielded lo the public with.
. «, anu 4>epniuted bimfelf ,0 be elevated to ri.at '
• " Bh ; d ftanon >, lhc P ubl,c mind was tr aß<Ju i], undcr ,
au affurane-c, that there would be perfect unanimi- i
yia deiignattojg thit fati of mea, as oor Ptefidtnt. 1
His having declined a re-elc&ioti, to this 'office,
though much to be regretted, exhibits him in a
f cunt of view commanding the admiration of m«n-
Tfind. We cannot omit adding our teftimuny, that
he has uniformly displayed in all his public walks,
,moderation, disinterestedness, penetration, and firm
nefd, and that he has, on a late grßt conilitiition.il
and national question, evinced a Heady and firm ad
herence to the cxrifVitution gI the United States.
These, fir, aie not only our fentirsents, but we are
firmly persuaded fhj:y are equally die sentiment* of
the great body of our conllituent*.
' -In deciding on' eletfor*, un3er these circumstan
ces, we feel the petiod so b« important, and that
the utmofl circumfpe&ion and caution are neceflary,
and we (hall moll affiredly never Idfe fight of the
consideration, that the fuccefFor of this truly extra
ordinary man, ought to poflefs those leading prin
ciples of his predeceflor, which, through the most
perilous circumstance*, have, under the smiles of
heaven, condu&ed us to, and continued us in, that
national-prosperity., which so eminently diftingtlilhr
es us among'l the nations of the earth.
We are happy to learn, that the cls-im of the In
dians, calling themselves the Seven Nations of Ca
nada, has been terminated and extinguished ; and
agree with yor.r excellency, that'vinder the peculiar
cireumllances of this cafe, without a reference to the
justness of their claim, good policy required of us
to pursue the mcafures adopted on this occasion.—
The profpeft of an adjudment of ike claim of the
Mohaivksto other lands, and of the eftaWtfliment.
of a friendlyintercourfe and confidence between us
and the Indians on our borders, arc also circumstan
ces extremely grateful.
The funds of the state, and the manner in which
they may be improved, and rendered proikuiiive, to- ;
gether with the other various and important fab- /
jest* communicated by your excellency, evincivc of t
much reflection and great fplicitude for the welfare t
or your conliituents, (hall receive, as they merit
our early and attentive confide ration—and we beg
your excellency to'be a flared, that \ite r lhall cheerful- v
iy and indefatigably exert ourfelvcs to promote the f
iutereft of onr constituents and the .public weaL r
By order of the Senate,
STEPHEN VAN RENSSELAER, Pre*. '
Senate Chamber, Nov. 7, 1796.
REPLY. <
Gentlemen, a
I receive this address with those emotions which *
coincidence in opinion and a pcrfuafion of mutual *
confidence naturally excite. '
Whenever the independent representative* of 1
free and enlightened republicans, bear testimony to c
diltinguilhed merit, they do honor lo a form of go- c
veinment, which in pall ages has not been remarka
ble foiju ft ice, to real and living patriot*. '
It is only by adhering to those leading principles, 3
to whith ytiu allude, that (lability in our council*
can be ptefei ved, aod'-the evils resulting from fluA
uatioH be obviated. While legislators and ftatef
nven arc guided by those principles, our confuta
tion will be secure from violation ; wisdom and mo
deration will cherish 'union and harmony; an 'up
right and well advised policy will couftilt the inter
( eitsoithe public j and inftrtt&ion and moral* •will '
diaiimih ignorance and licentioufnef*.
From a people who know how to eftimxte Kien
and measures, they who with you cheerfully and
indefatigably exert themfelve* in promoting the ge
neral welfare and the public weal, may expe& ap
probation and support.
•JOHN JAY.
ANSWER of the Hon. H&ufe of Aflembly of
this State, to his Excellency, the Governor's
Speech at the opening of the Sefßoti.
To his EX-CELLENCY/kJOHN JAY,
Governor of the State ej Ntw-Tork.
SIK,
The reflections you have been pleased to make
on the occasion which his called us together a this
early season, are a* just as they ate natural. Senfi
hie how materially imr national happimfs mud at
all times be connected with the proper choice of a
peifon to preside in the executive department of the
United States; and equally fetifible how much the
delicacy of the talk of providing for that choice,
te at this jmnfture increafcd by the refutation to de- ip
cline a re-clc&ion,whicil the li.J.usTltiO'us patriot »
who has hitherto miiual the fuffragcrof Kit country, h
has lately announced, we (hall ad with correspond- p
ent circiimfpeflioiu At the fame time, we partici
pate in the »kep regret, common to all, good citi- si
zens, which is infpircd by the prospect of foregoing p
the fcivices of a man, who has so J,fteii, so GgnaM
ly and so fticcefsfully fujiporied a„d promoted the | „
bell interests of hiscounuj. Review- o
">g hiß coudufl, either in the arduous Irenes of that
war wbxh secured to us independence and liberty "
Or in the c.lticl tianfaclions which, preserving us b
in honorable peace, havtf thus far exempted u, from n
the calamities that overwhelm fo,large a part of the n
world-, we find equal cause for admiiation : we 1-
t perceive in every fouiiiou the fame lta,*p of w,f. 0
dom, fortitude tnd virtue. In the relinqniflimcnf U
a* 10 the execution of public trusts, we equally be- c
hold a man defiiued to give great examples ;to me- 0
nt ana to acquire the afle&ion ard gratitude of his f,
countrymen ; the etkem and of mankind, a
■ May Ihe beneficent ruler of the universe blcfs his I
relieat with every enjoyment and fatisfaaion, a n
Rteat and good man can desire, and to grant to his b
model I 8 whe wili emulate so glyrious a
The final agreement concluded bet ween tbu ft aCt 'j
andthe 1 „aian tr>he., who ilyk themfelve, the Se- c
ven Naaondof Canada, wa, an event greatly to 1
, f 'he principles on which this fettle, f,
meut has been efFedtcd, merit our , ppio b 3 .i UD . |
We umte .n the hope, that ,he period of a co^
plcte adjuiinventof all Indian claims, to lands with- ti
- this State, u"w fxr.diftant, a,d that, ii ei t ,
'd by the general fairnefs of our conduct, the In- o
*m ow borders will consider our profperitv as ti
nearly allied with their own, ir .d will rrolVJ
juihee and Lenevolcnce « their best protedwn. ti
calff C U "' yu 3 proper acran « c «'-nt of our sis. a ,
cal u evident - and the public welfare wln (
iuterc&ing «
ran el der.auduig our icrtou* attcn- ci
!, tioi—the variout other ohjefia rtccm» en d t( j
a r.otiv* by your excellency, will receive a difjfr*"
- due to their importance. To promote the h "
t ness of our fellow citizen*, and to enfm e a
!, ance of our present prosperity, will be the C nl!"i'
of our deliberations, and ia all treafurc* ca | i
il to produce these dcfirable ends, we fed full "1^
- deuce in the affuMnce of your oicellencv'a '!t " '
i. -co-operation. ' ai( * *od
e THE REPLY,
f Gentlemen,
I receive this addrefj with particulu &»,«{;*•
. You have done honour to the State by J fß) " l° n
t tions of it* gratitude for raoft signal ferviec.V
, ! on an occasion that will always be m , rn ,' .
e I Such aft* encourage as welll as reward tcnuln?
• triotifm f P s "
Striking is the contrast which you obf er « k
I tween the c.lamiiic* that overwhelm f o g, eat a bt "
f of the world } and the honorable peace and On ','"
{ lar prosperity which we enjoy.
To him who forbid* those plagues to pas s •
oar borders, moll cordial gratitude ia due • • !»'•*
. is worthy of remark, that those nationi have 1 a
. reason to expect the continuance of such f avo .
1 who receive them gratefully and use them rati v l'
r ly. Indeed it it not easy to foim an idea 0 f , 1'
: or human government, without admitting the, l
j intimate connexion to subsist between protwY
. and allegiance. 10:1
JOHN JAY
I. New-York, sth November, 1796.
11—» i.
Far the Gazette of the Unitid Statss.
P'HOCION—No. XIX.
Mr. Jefferfon's report on the commercial rejlrie.
' tions of other nation*, and on the rneafures which
the United State* ought to pursue to ctiOtiterafil
them, has been also referred to, a fubjeft o f,«.
comrnm.
The refutation of the House of Re P tefe„t„; rel
Which called ror this report, wa»'tranftr.itted to the
secretary at Rate jjjuh* J* ,;, f
. repqrl was r.ot delivered-io the House until the
16th December 1793,—A period of » t » x th.u
ye/tri may well'be contidered a* fufficiently exltn>
five, to have enabled the secretary- to colic# anfl "
digest with accuracy all the materials ceceffary tar
a report, comprized in fifteen short pi„'ei, wuhout
being afterwards exposed 10 animadversion for 'th«
| comntiifionof many important blunders,ai.ti ever, 0
retraS, in a supplementary report of the 30th D»,
:• cember, a positive assertion of a fact, evidently CaT
, cuhited to givethc House an unfavorable iraprc/Ods
of the .British regulation*.
The egregious error*contained in this short r«.
port of fifteen (hort page* (the work of war thru
y*ir») are so numerous a* to require more than aa
, -equal trtißibw of page* to fpecify them 41, This
is the left neceffcry is they weie fully exposed at the
time in the difcuflions which took place oo'tbefub
jedl, in Congrefa, and pointed out by well inform,
ed commercial men in Boften and Philadelphia;
the dete&ion of these error* tolil failure
of 'the fropo/itieus, introduced by Mr. Madifoit,
| 'but of which, citizen 1-am hit inform us, in his
intercepted letter, ">»* 'L- 1 ivgf^uttior.
It was obvious to those that examined it, »h«
the whole object and tendency »f the report went
to swell the catalogue of fnppofed injurie*, string
. from the commercial regulation* of Britain, and to
-dimi nish those of France, Spain and Portugal, par,
ticularly the former by oveilooking importantdif.
eliminations in our favor 011 the part of Britain*
r and exhibiting her unfavorable difcritnii -ations ia
, t-he moA prominent colour*, while, on the other
hand, the disadvantageous'reftriftiont of the other
nation* were grouped in the back ground and tri
fling preferences brought forward and swelled ina
immense benefit*.
So'eager was the secretary in Ae pursuit of hi*
favorite objefl, vi - 2. to entangle the United State*
1 into altercations with England, which could only
ifTue in war, that he not only advanced in fipport
of kit commercial proportions, theories directly
the reverse of those he had elaborately inculcateditt ,
his Notes 011 Virginia, but he even flatly emtradid* y
id in one page a maxim of government which he bad
emphatically laid down no farther b?.tk tl.ao in the
\preceding page, and dated, with confidence, aw*-
of wo in ji;ir.&<fcras!e"mportanee, which
he wai obliged to centratiiil in hi* fnppkmcr.taiy re
port.
These three charge* will now be detailed aad
fupponted by evidence from Mr. Jeffetfon'* ohi
pen.
1 ft. He advanced in his commercial report the
riet which he had strongly condemned in hi* Ntxt*
on Virginia.
in his Note* on Virginia, pagi 174, he fays,
" Ihe political -econotjiifts of Europe, have elta
blidved it a* a principle, that every state should
for itfelf: and thi* principle, like mi
n> other*, we transfer to America, without calcu
latiog the difference of circumflances which should
often produce a different refuh. In Europe, thf
lands are either cultivated, or locked up sgti"" ( bf
cultivator. Manufadure must, therefore, hercfort
ed to, of neceflity, not of choice, to Aipjiort tfi#
furplmof their people. But We have an imrotnfi l ?
of land, courting tne industry of the hufbanJnwo»
Is it best, then, (hat all our citi%cn; Itiojl'i be em
ployed in ith improvement, or, that one half fhoald
be called off from that, to exercise njaruifaiSnfC
And handicraft* far the other f who Übdur **-«
the earth are the % cvicteM
a chosen people, whofc tireatia. tit has made hi* pe
culiar deposit for fubflantial and genuine virtue.
it it the fatut, in which be keep* alive th*t faced
fire, which otherwise might efcapc from the face of
the earth. Corruption of morals in rhe raafs of cul
tivators, is » phenomenon of v.fiich uo age nor M-
furuifhed an example. It i* the m*rt ff.
en tlioje who, not looking up to heaven, to their
owr. toil and iuduftry, as does the Jiufbaiidmao, for
their hibfiftence, depend for tt on the cafualtie?4' 1( i
caprice of cujlomtrt. Dtpendaoce begets fubfeni
ence and venality ; futfocatc* the germ of vit' ue i
and prepares fit tools for the of ambition.
1 his, the natural frogrcjf end conitquence of 'i(
arts, ha* sometimes, perhaps, been retarded by «<•*
cidentil viiviusllanccs; but generally fpcafein^j^tfattI
proportion which the aggregate »f the tther clnffes of
ye citizens bears, in any Ilate, to that of its huf
• bondmen, i( the proportion of its vnfound to it«
kealthy parts, and it a good enough barometer,
whereby to measure its degree of corruption. While .
we have land to labour, then, let ui meter wish to
'li t- on# citizens occupied at- a work bench, or
twirling adhtaff. Carpenters, masons, finiths,
arc wami g in hi Ibandry ; bat, for tie general ope
ration of mmufißurt, let sui work-shops re
main in Ebrofi. It is better ta tarry provisions
and materials to workmen there, than bring them to
the piovi(ir>»s and materials, and, ■with them their
ma:m'rs and pkivciplis. The loss, by the tranf
portaiiou of corsrnudities acrcfj the Atlantic, will
be nude up in happineft and pi-rmanepre of go
veriiinent. Ths m«bs 0* g««at cities, add
>pli much to the (upfwrt at PUKE government,
as sorf.s do to the strength of the human body."
but ivotwithftanding ijiis explicit condemnation
of the fyrtem of derncflic manufactures for the
United States, in the year 1782, yet in his commer
cial report, in 1793. when precisely the fame cause«
exilted, we find a Rrong recommendation of mea
fbtet, calculated to compel the United States to 1
depend altogether for supply on domcjlic manufac
tures, there being no other nation, at that time, ca
pable of furnifcing them but Great-Btitain, whose
manufactures were to have been interdi&ed.
In that report, page 17,* he recommends the ]
burdening >*th duties or excluding such foreign ma
nufactures at we take in greatejt quantity, and whieh
at the fame time we could the soonest furnilh to our- t
ielves, or obtain from other countries, imposing 011 1
them dutiet, lighter at firft, but heavier and heavier >
afterwards, as othercliknnelt of supply open.. He '
adds, " such duties, having the effedt of irtdircfl en )
eouragement to dotneflic manufactures of the fame '
kind, may induce the manufacturer to come himftlf in
to these ftatet ; and here he in the power
of the flats governments re cu-operate essentially, '
by opening the refourcet of encouiagemeiit, which j
are under their controul, extending them liberally f
to artifls in ihofe jKrtieular bunches of . manufacr
tures, for which rtieir foil, climate, population, and '
other circumfUnces have matured them, and fofier
ing the precious efforts and prog*cfs of hotijehold '
tnanufaflure by some pationage suited 10 the nature '
ef iti objedts, guided by the 1 Aral information they 1
pofiefs, and guarded againit abuse by their prcfencc '
and attentions. The oppreflious on our agricul
ture i(i foreign ports would thus be made the oeca-
fion os-relieving it from a dependance on the conn
«ils and conduct of others, an/' promoting arti,
MANUFACTURES AND POPULATION AT HOME." 1
The glaring contradiction which these recited (
paflages exhibit furnifhes scope for feverat remarks: '
Jn the firft place, he hat evidently overlooked or 1
forgotten in the commercial report all the injury '
which, tn his notes, ho had declared to flu* troai c
th* introduction of domestic manufactures into the '
United States; and this it not all j in his notes, e
page 93) "he deprecates the importation of foreign- 0
•' ers into the Uniied States, because «oming piin-
" cipally from monarchical countries they will either a
" bring their pernicious ttixims, or, if they throw (
•' them off, it will be in exchange for »n unioun H
" dtd. lutniMujUifi, pmffmjjv nj is -gfanl, fays he, k
*• from one extreme to another," And yer in his n
report he strongly recommends measures, calculated ti
to produce the cffe& of introducing a mals of so- ®
feigners from that monarchical country, Britain, and f'
the very xoorjl kind us foreigners, in his efiimation, t<
manufacturers a class of people, the proportion of p
which, in society, fays he, furnifhes a barometer C
whereby to measure its degree of corruption.-)- C
When he wrote hi* notes, thit country being at 0
war witk Great Britain, no ftimulut was neceffatx.
to inflame our citizens ; fufljeient causes then exir w
ted, and then " manufadurers were the fourec of tor it
ruption, then foreigners were the fourct of Hccntioyf-
Mfs." But, when he wrote hit report, a quarrel I
with Great-Britain was a defirublc thing ; then it
was uecefiary to inflame the Leg Mature "of the Uni
ted States, then it was proper that foreign manufac
tures fliould be interdicted, that the United States
should manufaSure for themfehts, and riof content
with their own workmen, encourage ihe importation 0
of manufacturers from foreign couatries, altho' they y
*fere cxpe£icd to bring with them pernicious habits, ft
er an unbounded Itcrntieufnejs I I—Sm h are tin in 11
eottfijlencies in which they involve thtmfelves, who
deviating from the line of political truth, pursue 1
speculations calculated merely 10 answer party pur-
P° fe »- PHOCION. in
* I have said that rh« repert eonfiftj of only fifteen i»
pages; it will be noted that'the Jtvt firft printed pag«t is
eonfift of title page, and irtrodo£lory letter, kc.
f Mr, Madi/on, in his speech in support of the Se
cretary's report, makes this ob/ti vation, fpeakmg of
the British manufaflureri : '< Here are three hundred ,
t 'ooufand fouls who Jive by our custom; let them be
Ibe driven to poverty and despair by atfs of their own '
government, and what would be the conftquence ? molt ds
probably an aequifition of so many ufefui citiza/11 to the nc
United States'
us
—-.1 1 „• c||
tor London, c h
The Jh'tp William Fenn. re
miftcr. Will fail with
C^S C €)Mveiiicxit fp«cd. For freight or patfage
ipply to the Captain on hoard, or to m<
Jefie and Robert Wain. cu
Naremher 10, 1796. , d P°
' ■ Wanted t° Charter, 'Z
1 A fajl-failing V.cjfet, ,er
f carry sor Soo barrels ; to .1
load immediately for the Well Indies- i
Apply to bot
Peter Blight.
'-.'prnb'r ro. {jj
Mr. FRAN CIS, be',
[Of the Netv Theatre) by
TAK£ k . this opportunity of returning thanks to his 119
ieholars jnd tf> the public. Mr. l ranc's if I
on his return from Maryland, to operj a public ara
demy lor dancing, updn a plan entirely new. Hi fr,
flatters hi:nfelf that Ins attention to his pupils hi- 7
|herto lenders any promile*. or coi.due'iiiig his future
lthemes on the moil liberal and flridteft teims, of pro- 1
pr:tty, totally unnecellary. ' hri
private tuiuon as ufnal. —1
J I v tiVj j Vt
r of ■■■ .
tl « f - Philadelphia,
its
:ter, THURSDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 10, 1705.'
hile ,
'' 10 Election Returns.
, or
l '' S ' Bucks County.
' Federal. Anti-Federal.
RE " Bristol Diftrift, 94 g$
tont Chapman do. ' 303 142
nto Quaker Town, tjj 3$
heir Newton do. 340 6»
anf Nockamixon do. 51 j<
will
J 1081 358
Cumberland County, 151 749
Statement as Majorities.
ent i Auti- Federal Federal
f." Philad. city and c»unty, majority 1076.
lion Delaware l«4
the'^ hhe - r 4'3
Montgomery 2 00
ncr ' Lancaftcr %j 2 o
tifes York 2AOO
lea- Berks lj ?
; to Cumberland 498
sac bucks 64J
,of e *I*7 6 ii<)
*747
the Majority for Federal Ticket, 3 g M
ma- — ■
ieh Ihe ratifications of the explanatory article to bs
iur- added to the Treaty of Amity, CommeKe, and Na
-011 vigation between the United Statct and his Britan
rier nic were exchanged at London 6n the
He Dxth day of October la ft. Thit event it premul
en £tted in the proclamation of the President alf the
ime United Statct, dated the 4th instant.
in-
tver By the proclamation of the governor of Mary
lly, 'and/ «f the ;d inft. it appeart that the following
ich geatlemen are elected members of the fifth Ci^b
ally »ess for that Itaie, vii.
:x r George Dent, Esq. for the firfl diftria ; Richard
and Sprigg, for tire 'fecund ; William Craick,
fer- Esq. for the third ; George Baer, Esq. for the
\ O U founh; Samuel Smith, Esq. for the fifth ; Wil
ure ham Matthew*, Esq. for the filth ; William Hind
,ey man, Esq. for the lcrcnth ; and John Dennit, Esq.
nee for the eighth.
•ul-
ca- of a letter from a genllem'en in Mafftchu
un sett's, dated iff November.
Ti, "1 he elcflion of Mr. Swanwick will be ufefui,
if it should keep yeur good men in Philadelphia, 1
ted ( atl( l you know I maintain, notwithilanding you
ls : f en <l ut such a man) that you have many gbod and i
or true met in your city, if this cleition fhotl'cj, I fay, 1
jry " lr U P your citizens'.o exert then felvet to prtferve
oui our govcrnmei.t, your afflidion will be wholefomei I
the '' i 0 Btf. joyout. Excuses for the want of due ex-
CS) ertions at elections arc at hand, and indeed they aire
°lten called for. Ihe fatislied people are not the i
in- f'rt of fo.ks to ttir. Jhe malcontents do it.of tourfe 1
lcr ano-i. ithout a refpilc. Prcteiided grievances too, ;
BW (in onrhappy eountry none are real) romc as much J
<sn 'urj-, «s rau. h again, as oppruilion would en- ■
, c> kiudle—ati hypoe»Bdricai rilsaie worse than com- t
his m«)u diseases, at lead the fufferer heart them left pa
led tiewtly. We mult expc£l it therefore that the font r
f O . of conftifion will excel us in industry. 1 v
nd fear that the frtends of order are too confident and <
too indolent in this quarter. Gov. Adams is pro
of posed as an eledor and Mr. Bnwdoin as membei of f
„ r Conprefs. Both would fail if due pains was taken. 1
Col. Dawet and Mr. Otis will be proposed 1
at ou the federal hie—l hope with fucceis. 1
% L " ? ' , l (:rC '1 " f ". ,lr !^ve " in th - vicinity of Bnftnn r
p which the Chronicle has mixed up so artfully that t
, r U will be long before we can get rid of it. With f
'/" ( uch » governor we cannot expect unleavened cakes c
res I trust we (hall put off the old man next fprtno.— a
it You know the whole text." ;
r»i* -—— k
ic- Fbf tfce Gazitti er tui Umited Statis. a
tes Mr. Ftnno,
nt Ar iER the full Vindication of Mr. AbAMi't h
'»» °P 1HIO »8. which has appealed at different times in
ey your paper, your reade.i mufl be furprifcd to fee
It, further attempts to calumniate that virtuous citi- c
in len, by the hacknied trick of detachino half a do- S
ho «n wordt from a particular sentence or f uh j c ft „
ue Ihe qnotatto, in yerterday't paper, given bv a wri-
Ir . tcr calling himfelf « Federal,J], so f ar f rom dc
ing from Mr. Ad ,ms's republicanism, when ex ain
!"l d ' an , t:il ' fn ,n tonj«n£tion with the whole fub
;<s J»tt, rather provet his fmcere and steady love for
the human race.
of . Vr ell iuown in the anticnt republics,
ed ' heir K,n S* w "e nothing more than Chief Mari
bC "S P f ge P recedin K the °"e viz.
,n »54. Mr. AdaH<s tells u» that the King ,( L acc .
>ft dxrrton wa. but 'he_fiift among equals,\^l 0
negative upon the Senate. In page 24.0 he tells
_ Uf ' that rom the da y« of Homer to thofc of Ly.
* curgut, the government, of Greece were monar- T
reali , and P^ tenr '°". but autocratical in
reality, that 111 Lacedasmon, where theie were cight
and-twentyarchons, contending ajainft two kings, '
f a Vr° Ußh - the Whol,; " ountr y 'he 11:
most confufion—in page "253, that the whole exe.
cutiveand the most important part of the legislative
power was committed t. a Senate-,hat all autho!
- nty was thug nearly colleitcd into one centre, and St
hat the nobility and that it was ncceffary tocoun-
SeibV"?"V dan 6 er ° u » Gorily, by inHhutwg S '
o affembl.esof the people. l n p . 2J4> he fg
, i A^i' V V VJ! ,He Kin * and p ce p-e were
both too W, and the Senate would ft,II \L< p ljW .
tr to fcrarnble after the magiltracies which were ,0
""T ;he 'hwrfore contrived a
- kind of folemM alliance, to be perpetually renewed ° F
by X; h r^'" Cjl a "u d ' ifaOCra,i^l tranche.,'
till, T U m '^ ht be awcd into ™odera- Sh
s >«,. in thisconfutution, then, were three order, : Bn
' Ctrl] Tu T ft °" ,d P rfva ' l 0 "« »f
---" ft«biy of the people, so tar as to"carry » ay unci
flitutiona/peint, the King, ai , d Ephori would fi M d aßr
; refoiirce in tl,e other ,0 lead them back. M A
. Jams thea obfervet " that this republic DoffefTed the Scl
vJ L c *ll'ta tepnbheora mouarchy, where
' «r there ex,ft. a nobthty, or a wealthy a„d povv.
— frful class of lAdtvfH, their power Bind be balanc
ed, br an executive and by the people.
These ideas are not confined to Mr. Adams ; I
ftey are found in the writings andfpeeches of eve
ly politician who has studied the ftibjcfl of govern
ment. In the fpeecßof Mr. Charles Pinckniy,
printed in Carry's Museum, as delivered in thc(Con
vention of South Carolina, that gentleman, who
I had been a member of the Federal Convention, in
a panegyric on the Confliiution, after describing the
be ft ingredients of the three condiment parts of
government vit. Monarchy, rfri/locracyk. Democracy,
proceeds thus : " the citizens of the United States
" would reprobate, with indignation, the idea of a
" Monarchy : but the efientialqualities of a Monar
" chy—uniiy of Council—vigour, and fecrecy,,and
" dnpatch, are qualities tffential in everygcvernment."
era! Nobody ever thought of accusing that* gentleman
iif beiriga friend to monarchy, and yet his ideas
4 are piecifely the fame as thefc of Mr. Adams on
3 thisfubjeA.
J But t« prove more fully th*t Mj. A'» sentiment*
are favorable to tl>epeople and that all his views tend
to their huppiuefs, I will quote some further extra&s
from the lame chapter—Speaking of (he inllittitians
J of Lycurgus, which he reprobates, he fays, thefc
mult be considered as calculated to gratify his own
' family pride, rather than promote the happiness of
hit people. Morality and liiHnanity, as well as all the
} comforts, elegancies and of life mull be
facrificed to tiis gljring phantom bt vanity, fuper
be fhtr.m and ambition , as if fighting and intriguing,
and not life and happiness, were the end of man
an- and fociety—«a» if the love of one's country and of
the glory were amiable paflions, -when not limited by jttf
tul- t tee and general benevolence» and x$ if naiion* were
the t« be chained together for ever, merely that one fa
mily might reign among them. Lycurgus fhackicd
the Spartan to the ambitious views of his family
r y- for fourteen successions of Herculean kings, at tie
iug empencf of the continual dijiurbanee of all Greece end
?■- tht corflunt misery of his people. Human natute pe
rilled utKler this frigid fyjlem cf national and 'fa
»rd mily pride. Population, the surest indicator of na
-k, tional happiness, decreased, &c."
the A REAL FEDERALIST.
'il
£ BY THIS DAY'S MAIL.
NEW-YORK, November 8.
iu. PERSECUTION.
The Englilh government has ever been censured I
ul, for requiring a tell of her citieens, as a condition J
ia, of eligibility to offiv-es. All liberal men reprobate I
ou -he E.ig.ifh tert law justly, for it flagrant in- j
ad ftingementof the tights of cenfeience, and of no I
ly, morf cOnfequenre to the ficurity of the government I
ve hati whether ihctnglilfc wear cocked hats or round j
ie, hats.
x- 1 lie French, though they join in reprobating the I
i,re English oppreffiun, have fallen into the fame error I
he under another shape. By an order. of the Direflo J
rfe ry, citizens of France arc not to be employed i
<o, public frrvice, unlcfs they fay citizen instead of mon- j
ch Jforrj and by a notice of Mr. Adtt in thucountry, j
n- ft i' ici diraMi is cMt, ied to the privileges of Ftench 1
u- citizens, unlels he wears a tri.coh vred cockade. I
a- Now matters stand thus. Au EngJ&jnan can
ns not enjoy the advantages of office in Great-Britain,
1 without swearing a certain oath, and fubfciibing !
id tan. articles and takingthefaerament. A French-I
0- nan i§ deprived of the lame advantage?, urilefs he j
ot says citizen, and wears, a cockade with three co-I
n. iours. The iwo cases are exaflly similar in princi-l
;d I'le. It is as mucn an aft of tyranny to compel a j
man to wear a cackadc, as it is to compel him to
in repeat certain words. Both are oppreflive, and]
at tend only to make hypocrites without the smallest }
ih security to Government. The prerences in both
:s. cases ate the fame—to keep out of offict all who
— ate not friendly te the exilting government either j
in church or state. The lefult is, that an external
badge, and not principle, becomes the test of a good
and faithful citizen. One is ecclesiastical tyranny,
the other is political republican tyranny ! Rifum te
*s neatis,?
' n November 9.
ee Yellcrday at a o'clock, the Senate and AlTembly
1- chose the following Gentlemen electors for this I
0- State, of PrciideHt and Vice Prcfident of the U
t. nited States, <
1- Lewis Morris, West-Chester,
'• Abijah Hammond, New-Yark,
1 Richard Thorite, Qrieen's,
b- Peter C»ntine, jun. Dutchefs,
>r Robert Van RcnfTelatr, Qilumbia,
Abtaham Ten Broeck, Aany, 1 '
», William Root, RenflTelaer,
Charles Newkirk, Montgomery,
i. Abraham Van Vechten, Albany,
Johannes Miller, Ulster,
\" J" hn Honeywood, Wafhingtan,
Is , Peter Smith, Herkemer. I I
•* Tidtct * b ° Vt " a,Bed gentlenien com P ofc the Federal
n- I c
I a
|# OytZtTTS or THS MtTKD srjTXS MAMhk fctST. j s
PHILADELPHIA, November 10 . \l
C -■ f IG
■ O , AU RIVED. n Jv , N
j Schooner Wimhrop, Oilman, Boston ,T 1
— Lark Williams, Vi.-ginia' es«
, Slo f >^ ,a k l ' ni ' h » Cook, Newbc, 9ki
' w n y ' r , Pf t ick> New-York 8 &
r Willing Lass, Bell, Virginia 6 -
Sh . „ I " d " ftr y.' B r own ' Charleilon a,
, bnip South Carolina, Garman, isatNewcaftle in 8 /
cay, from Charlcfton. ShefaiU iu company with ! /
or 6 other veflels for this po,t. P / ** S tr ,
Several square-rigged vcffels are in the river. dl
' Ship Voltaire, „ b , £
Harrington, }SSS
Nsw-York, NOT. 9. Tl
D , ARftmn.
Br>g Commerce, Gardner, S o ft 9n
S hr[ pCra , riCC ' T ratff «' Port-ati-Prwce *
Ro£b, Malaga ,1
Nancy, Block, Richmond 5 °
W>ton, Loring, Clliac «, J
Reliance, Gray, FbiJa&Jphit \
\
RC* 1111 "V ' —
Character of Johh Avams,
Vice-Prefidt nt of the United States.
ve
rn . From a Poem jujhpubh/ljed, and fo'd by J. Or m red
s1r > YF»who hive fought in Freedom's sacred cause,
an- Who grace our Senates or expound our laws,
'ho Freemen, who deem your country'* honors dear,
in Indulge the Mule, and lend a pitient ear :—
Say, if on you the rights of fuffrage wait,
Whom hail we n»xt as Fathjr of the State ?
To each hath Heaven peculiar gifts sffign'd,
c 3' And men, like stars, to eertai* fphercs ronfiu'd;
tes In paths,eeeentric few allcw'd to Ara)",
I a Drawing a fpiendid train and hright'ning all the way.
ir- Saturnine fouls, who think and move by rule,
nd E*ctrl in grave debate, and reasonings co il ;
,»> Impetuous mind 9, of more impalEon'd form,
a() " Ride in the whirlwind and dire<£> the fturm."
Hence these in councils, those in arms exeel,
as But few indeed are those who govern well.
on For in his bread who sways the rod of state,
Must centre every gift uiprerr.dy gre. t;
it* And as the liars which gild the vault of night,
Unnumber'd pour effulgence on the fight,
So Chiefj and Senators in crowds abound,
But rart as comets IVaJbingtonj art found.
', Is there a man, tho' thrite ten lears well tried,
Wh6 never crouch'd or meanly chang'd hi* fide,
vn Ardent and foremoft in hit country's cause,
of The friend of order and of equal laws,
| l£ Who view* vith stern contempt a clam'rous throng?
(j C Strife in their heart, and freedom on their tongue;
, r _ A whiffling tribe, who at their Leader's nod,
Would fell their fouls, their country, or their Gob ;
S' Who, had they liv'd in Jove'* imperial reign,
an Had join'd the giant*, and enthron'd a Paine.
of Is there a man, in whose capacious mind,
tf A Murray, Locxiand Chatham lirecombin'4,
:rc Wh6 joins to all that men or bosks have taught,
ijj. The fire of genius and the force of thought?"
Is there a man, who in these changeful days,
.. Unaw'd by cenfoir, umllur'd by praifc,
7 True to his aim, and obstinately good,
While fart ions unmov'd as Atlas flood ?
nd Whose xntient virtue* ftcrics rnigh re*cre,
>e- I And Rome reviv'd behold her Ctr,for herts;
fa-1 S«eh, as ere Grecian spoils her temples grae'd,
ia _ And solid virtue funk to Attic taste.
j Should fucli a man preside, the land were blest,
1 Advert your eyes, and Adams fiends conttll.
I Fir'dat the name enraptur'd Fancy flies,
I Old Time rolls back and years long past arise,
I To memory frcfli unfolds the foleran scene,
I Columbia's fires in high Divan convene,
J Of dread concerns, commiflion'd to consult,
J And chains and empire* wait the great refultt
I Full in the front I fee the Patriot Hand,
c( ) I All fire his eye, all energy his h«nd—
I Such graceful majefiy round Fully shone,
I V\ hen Koine'* proud master trembled on hi* throne,
te I <i Ye guardian pewer* of eloquence divine,
ii- I '« Prepare each fowl to grasp the grand design t
:io I " Inspire my tongue the glorious cause to plead,
hi I " Impel each hand to fignthe deathless deed"—
id I ceas'd—Affent remui mur'd thro' the throng,
I " While INDiPiNDtKCt thundcr'd from his tongue."
o, I James M'Alpin, Taylor,
o I No. 3, South Fourth jirett,
I RETURNS his grateful acknowledgments to hi*
j Friends and the Public for their liberal encouragement,
I and begs leave to solicit a continuance of thiir favor*.
J l ' I He has on hand an extenfivc aflnrtment of the
' I Mejl Fajhienable GOODS t
And of the bed quality, luitablc foV the fcalbn.
II ■ I At this fiicp Gentlemen can he fumiihed with the be®
r»j I materials, and have them made up in the ncateft and most
,g j Farouahl« Manlier, and o# the ihorteft notice—se will
T. 1 *ha*kfu)ly receive any orders, and pay a prompt and
J pun dual attention to, them.
I November 10. W6t f
8- j . _
H Waftiington Lottery,
TICKETS, warranted ujjdrawn, ma y be purchased or
0 exchanged for prizes, at the Office, No. .47, Ch.fnut
id I 1 reet, where a correfl Numerical Book is kept for publi»
ft infpechon. Also Canal Lottery Tickets for sale or ex
h u"? C<l for P r >*r» diawn in ihe Washington Lottery, of
10 IW ii thc " 6th and 3? tb da TS returns are received.
I £T Th» Business of a Broker carried on as usual.
-r j November 10 ttst f
For Sale,
f, I This day Tending from on board ihe Jhip Concord,
' . a P ta,n Tbompfon, from Artfjlerdam,
I O'n, in pipes
I Empty Oin Cases
y ] Hock in cafas of 4 doi.
j I Glass Tumblers in chest*
Sweet Oil in ca&s
l'atte Graffe Cheese in boxes, Isfe
Aifo by the Louisa, Capt. BM, J nm
<0 Quarter-calks Lifton Wine.
On Hand,
A quantity of Brandy, Hazle-Nuts in sacks, &e.
, Peter Blight.
° aoW T ?- dlweozw
Imported in the late arrivals,
And to be Sold by
JACOB PARKE,
j No. 49, North fide of High-street, P •jdelphia,
I A HENBtAL ASSOkIMLHT OF
Ironmongery, Cutlery, Sadlery, &c.
/I AMOMOIT WHIGS AftE
r ut S,^ r rf S nVi l'' Y iC °' 1 and F ' leai S *» «ill, Oofs.
1 !■' u 't. "? otfler S aw, i Carpenters' Planes Chisels
j and other Tools; Carving Chisels and Gouge*' Locks'
Hmge*, Baits and Latches; Naiis, Sprigs, Tack,
Screw*; Frying-Pans; Smoothing-irons; Shov.ls' and
Tongs j Coffee MdU; Candkfticks • Snuffers; Vt'arming.
Pans Table Knives and Forks ; Rising Whips - plv-
C,tf'"' ? ° P ° ektt Kniv "i Raiors ; Sciff»r* •
Needles! Ivory and Horn Combs | best Kirbv Fish
1 Hooks; bras* Cabinet Furniture: Waggon Bor -« si
Br d afs; plated and rin'd Bridle Bit* K£S* - £
Sa die N«ls j G.rth and Straining Wchbs mn ft
Ironmongery, Cutlery, Sadlery, Bras. Ware,,
o«a»ber 14.
' ■ ■ rawf6w
I „T t r , Philadtlphiij Novtmber 6, Xia6
A ¥* p, ODI d , efirou ' coatraa for furnifhmp*«f
tloru Quarter-M»ltcr* flore* f„ r «v
troop, in Philadelphia or Fort-Mifflin, on Mud Island'
nofifV | e l" r I,97 T Jre re< 3 utlled to fend their pro-
on or before the firft day of December
Tk TENCH FRANCIS, Purveyor
component part* of the Ration*, are Y
t pound of Flofcr or Bread
I pound Be«f or 3-4 »f a pound of Port
i-» a gill of Rum, Brandy
or Whiskey
I quart of Salt
a quart* of Vinegar V
» pounds of Soap f p or 100 Rations
i pouud «f Candle* t
K«r. 9 J
f&ftDfreafury of the United States.
v s VfOriCEis htr-Aj given to all persons who are or ~
y may be Creditors, of the United States, lor any I'umt 1 1
* >f tfc< F.nJtd Debt, tr Stock, Luring a fr.fcnt inttrejl nf fx
■I cr atnUtvtper annum. Fc
i ft, That purl'uant to an Act of Congreft pasTed on'the
23th day of April, 1796, intitled an ait in additicrti to an
intituled " Aft act making further provifton for the
Aip port of public cradit, and for the redemption of the
public debt, ,J the faidclebt or flock will be reinllkurfedand
paid in manner following,to wit. " First, by dividends so
ato be made en the lalt days of March, Jfuieand Septen> , g
" ber for the and from.the year one thoufafcu ar
" seven hundred and niaoty-feven, to the year-.one thou- jj
<c land eight-hundred &. eighteen the rate of cr
ts one and oijehalf pei centum upon the Original capital.
u Secondly, \>y dividends to be made on the tall day of i cr
" D-csfriber or the present year, and from the year one q,
" thoufan'd {even hundred and ninety-seven, t<\ the year cu
one,th'crfand ejght hundred and fev'enteen iiuAufive, a:
" the rite of three and on--, hfif.per centum upon the ori- cr
" ginal capital; and b/ a dividend to* be -ma c on" the la.it q
•' da£ of December, in the year one thousand igh* hun -
k< d.red and eighteen, t of iuch.lum, as wilt be then ace- cr
* quate, according to the contrad, for the fintrredemp
tc tion <h th faicf flock."
id. All diftin&ion between payments on account °- f P <
Interefl and Principal being thus abohfhed by the eftafeiifh-
" ment of the p rmanent rule of reimbursement abov* de- m
scribed, it- has become necef&ry to vary accordingly the w
powers of attorney for receiving dividends; th public f-,
creditors will therefore that the following form w
:s efta'blifhed for all powers of attorney 'which may be va
* granted alter the due promulgation ol this notice, viz.
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that an
I cf in
do make, conjlitute and appoint no
of my true and laivful At
torney for me, and in my namej to receive the dividends luhich are, w]
or Jhall be payable according to lazu, cn the -(hem dcfcribing the to
Jlanding fit my name in the books of (here defcribmg*the I 6
books of the Treasury or the Commiflioncr of Loans,
where the. Hock is crediteU) from (here insert the com- a .
mencement and expiration oi time for which the power of mi
attorney is to coftunut) ivitb pouter also. an attorney or attor- je\
. ties under him y for tfrat furfiofc to make and'JubjLltuU, and to do all C&
latujul a£ls repa fttefor ejJ'tßing the premises ratifying and fir
eonfirming all that my said Attorney or hisfu^itut^jjbajlJanful" J a»l
ly do, by -virtue hereof.
In Wiinejs h, r .-jj \ I have hereunto set my Hand and Seal .the fej
day of in the vear
Sealed and Delivered to
in ph
BE IT KNO IV N,that on the day of ' da
efore me perjonally came th<
•within named and acknowledged the above letter of attorney to be wi
his a£l and died. ga
In tejlimony ¾of I have hereunto fei my Han i *nd ajfix
ed Seal the day and year lap iiffre/aid.
©iven und<sr my Hand at Philadelphia., this twen
tieth day of July 1796, pHrfiiant to dire&ions
from the Secretary of the Treasury
SAMUEL MEREDITH, _
7reajurer of the United States.
July *3. i* &> 11J
, . A
Just Arrived, \
By the Fly, Captain llubber', from London, re
Double racked, Stout Porter, a i!
in hoelheads. El
Painters' Colours, in i-i and 1-4 ewt. kegs, paeked, ia or
hogfceads. y |
Copperas in hojfheadi.
Whiting, &c. For Sale by —
Peter Blight.
OlSober 25 dxttszw * n
Samuel Richardet
"D ESPEC TI'LILLY informs the Gentlerafn
Merchants, that he has this d;iy openei .heCtlY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEE in tlic
City df Philr.deljbia.
The Subscription Room vrill be furnifhed with ajtl the
daily papers published in Philadelphia, New-York, Bo! , a "
toii, Baltimore, together with thoie of the con-.- P.
mercial cities of Europe—They will be. regularly filed c,t
and none permitted io be taken away'on any account.
Tea, CpiFee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
of French Liquors; together with the usual refrefhments,
will at all times bt; procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated wilk
the choict'ft of Wines, Spiriiuous Liquors, and the n.oft
approved Malt Liquors from London and other breweries.
The Larder will be fugplied with the prime and earliest
productions of the Season.
Large and final I Parties, or single Gentlemen, njay be
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hours mod convenient to themselves—a cold Collation is
tegalarly kspt for convenie/icy, the Billof Fare te be had
at ths har. *
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifbetl, and
the utmost attention paid to cleanliness, and every otker
Tcquifite. _
jT/" Samuel Richardet will behappy to receive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; a;.d with grafitude for their favours, he pledges
himfelf that rothiyg.ou his part fliali be wanting to pre
serve that patronage with which he has been so diftinguilh- Ai
ingly /lonored.
Philadelphia, April 19. mw f M
SWANN'S, • d
Riding School, r 'orf- Academy hJ Tnjirmary, A
Adjoining the Public Square, Market Street r
T. SWANN w
RETURNS his Gncere thanks tothofe gentlemen by whom
he has been »» ployed, during Ins tefidence in this City, and Y
flattershiiriVtit that, the iuccefj of his efioits, in the numerous, C
and dangerous diseases io Horses, in which he has A
hec:i cuofulted, together with his moaeraie charges, will le- K
cute their fulurefavors and rec«maieudation. E
He now begs leave to inform'them and the public at large D
thai his spacious and commodious premiics, erected for the £
pur joCt ->bove described arc open for the reception of pupils
0; eul'er sex, who wifhto beinftruftcd in the Art ol hiding,
the 'ight method of governing their horses, so asto tide
them with eofe, elegance, and lafety—their h«ifes will be
carefully and expeditiouily troke, for every purpose, ai,d -
made obedient to ibe will of ihe riders ; the natural powers
which arc Ihut up in them, will be unfolded by art, calling
forth uniformity of motion, and giving 10 that noble animal
all those beauties of aftioa whicfi providence has so bounti- 0
fully bellowed 011 them.
Alio, at his hofpttal, every difor.rer to which the horse is V
liable w ill be treaitd according to the in ei ot art, confirmed !
by longand repeated experience.
The utility of the above iniliiution has never been qneftion
ed, that it has long been wanted n tKii' city, eveij gentleman's -i
flud will m inifclt, and T. Sv.'A*««» the fiill eftabliflier of
the veterenarv art, fclicits and iclies upon ihe ftrppoit of that
public (which he Lever anxious in iciving) to enable him to
hiing it to perfection. The idea of a lubfeription for that
purpose has beeu hinted bv feve.jl gentleman, who wilh to
promote the inftitutiou i! c anwunt of each lublcription to
be returned by services 111 any df tnt demrtments he piofeffes '
agreeable to the rate of charges I'.r-rd 1,, his hand bill. Such
fubfeription i»now open, end the Statures of inaßy refpea- '
able gentlemen already obtained,-' He therefore injorms his
friends ami such Ladies and gentlemen to whom lie has not
iht honor of.being known, that he lhali in 2 few days take
the liberty of waiting upon t.itm ind folicituig their fiippor:
and prote^lioD.
N B. Horfea are properly prepared for tbofe Ladieaand
Centlemcn who wilh u> be iulliccfcd.
Nov. >• tthitf.
-.-V -■ ' ■ * ' ' -
Valuable Real Estate,
For fule at Auft'ton by Cafptr Th\eU,af Hamburg,
{at* the property of James and H ill 'iam K innear.
For sale by public av&ion, on the 9th day of November ,
next enftiing, at the sign of Gen. Wafliiilgton, Wood s 1,
tavern, borough of Reading, Berkscounty, the follow- .
ing real b
M A TRACT of land containing 4Csacres with j,
'I °* ' XA. allowance for roads, called the Purchase, 0
' fiuated in Brunfv/ick townihip, Berks county, patented, 0
; 18th o-Jan. T7BB This trad, cf which about 45 acres e;
' arc cleared jis of good foil, situated on the or 0
Little Schuylkill, well watered and timbered, on v/hich is n
ered.c'd a good log dwelling hotffe and stable. d
. A tra<sfc of unimproved knd, containing o
cres, with allowance, &c. called Hopewell, patented iScw 'J
Ovftober, 1790, iituated in Brifnfwiek towriftip, Borks jv
county, foil good. . ) tl
No. 3. trad, of unimproved containing 376 ?- f 2
cres with allowance, &c. called Hillflsurg, patented zbth
OAober situation, &c. as No, 2. tz
No, 4. A tra«sl wif unimproved land, a- p
cres, with allowance, See. patented-sUth bi Ocftobef, 1786, t j
htuation, &o. as No. land j. b
No. 5. A tra«sl of land, containing 268 atres, and $2 B
perches, wrth'aUowance, See. situated in Bruniwicktown- je
Ihip, Berks covinty, on Tomagua, or little ochtylkill, 5 c;
miJes afeove the town of Hcmburg»on wliich is ereAed a
weii finifhed two story fqu-ired Ug dwc ling house, 27
feet by 35, within the diflance ofiOO perciesirom a forge, \ z
with the advantage of a ferry and publicaoufe ; these ad- b
vantages render this trad very valuable. te
No 16. A town lot in Hamburg, endofed with a pofl
! and rail, or board containing in front, 60 feet, and a
in depth 18© feet,tuuje6l Co a ground reit of 7ysper an- r(
nam. is
No. A town lot in Hamburg, *ack)fed asjio r€,to
, which it adjoins, being of the fame dimenlons, andfubjeft al
to the fime ground rent,on which Is created a log stable, £3
: 16 by i§ feet B
No. A town lot in Hamburg, adjoining to No, c j
a corner lot, fronting on Main and SchuyJcill jtrccts, di- ri
m»nfions the fame; as No. 16 and 17, above fub
jeAto iq/o per annum ground rent. On 'his lot is er- q
eCted a large 2 fiery dwelling house, 45 feet front on Main
1 ilreet, by 34 feet in depth on Schuylkill ftreot, pleasantly c i
and advantageously situated for a store.
N. B. The above described three town lots fold f 0
separately or together, as may best suit the purchnfers. t j.
Conditions of sale—One third of the purchase i*oney p.
to be Jraid to thefubfcribers, or either of thorn in Philadel
phia, at or bef are the expiration of one month from the t jj
day of sale, when a deed of conveyance will be executed ; p]
the residue payable ill 2equalpayments, at 6 and 1a months
with intereft,the payment whereof to be secured by mort
gage on the premifei. '
James Henderfon, _ ~j Affi?nteßtn
Frederick MontmoUifi, I the estate of
Thomas Rogers, | James &Wm.
Jafeph D. Drinker y J Kinnsar.
Ssptember q6. m & th.
To be Rented,
A Small'-and Convenient B R E IV E RT, at
Morris Vil/e, oppoftte Trent en.
ALL the Apparatus for Brewing new and in good
repair : A number of Barrels and Half-Barrels will r '
also be rented. PofTeffion may be had at any time.
Enquire of Mr. Garrett Cottringer in Philadelphia,
or Mr. Robert Morrit, jun. or Daniel Mun at Morris-
Ville. ri
October 10, 1796. mth&saw G
Plans of the city of Philadelphia,
Including the Northern Liberties and diftrifl of c
Southwark,
Publilhed, and fold by
BENJAMIN DAVIES, c
No. 68, High street,
(Price one dollar.)
THIS plan is 16 inches square, and has bew en
graved by one of the firft artists in the city, from a late
and accurate survey. Purehafers are entitled to a pam
phlet with each plan, giving " some account of the a.
city, its population, trade, government, &c.
fr'y I? tu&ftf
A few Pipes of WINE,
Injported in the brig FAltoE, from Madeira, to be fold
by MO RD EC A I LEWIS, w
Who has also to aifpofe of on reasonable terms, S<
IKISH LINENS, wellafforted
BANDANNA HANDKERCHIEFS
WIDE NANKEENS
COSSAS AND BAETAS
RAVENS DUCK r
DIAPERS
t QUICK SILVER th
CHINA
ROLL BRIMSTONE, &c. f h
° ber *7- tawrm. t ; (
i New Hat and Hosiery Stoxx, ti
Wholesale, and Retail,
; By WILLIAM M'DOUGALL,
No. 134, Market Street, yl door from the corner ar
) °f Fourth, South Side.
Mens Black American and Englih Hats, of various q na!-
ittes and prices.
Ditto Drabs and Green-undfrs. » fa
Ladies' ditto tl
And a large assortment of fancy ditto
Coloured Beavers
With a great variety of elegant and fafbionablc trim- "
I mings 4 &c.
i outh s black and drab coloured ditto.
, Children's fancy ditto
s All kinds of Clk, silk and cotton, eotfon and jhread hose 1
- Knit coloured Pantaloon® J
Ditto Drawers e
e Ditto Ereeches Patterns *
c Silk Gloves .
' Knotted, coloured ditto, cotton. r
e A^ ua " tit y. of '" £n di''g cotton,forted colours. t ,
e Oft . " fini,hed tht newe st Mioii a
d ' ' ' eodtm.
g VVafhington Lottery. 1
II J he J 4th ,nd 3Jth Da y s Drawing are arrived at the *
olHcc No. i 4 7, Chelhut-ilrest. thc
Prizss in the above Lottery are eKhanged for tickets
is warranted undrawn. »c*eta
d • «&«
DANCING SCHOOL.
if W dav i WiU ° pCn h!s fchn(J 0° Mon
at y : mft - at ten o c '°ck in the morning, at lu«
to Llegant Aeiv Ball Rooms,
In Fourth, between Chefnut and Walnut Streets.
to U " 0 tu "'°" for y° un S ladies, from 10 to , o'clock
on Mondays, Wedncfday, and Friday mornings - ai d for
i ssssjr ™ 6 -"»"»4'"
* c ' pn * 4Hf ' u K ba » to be on Tuefdav c
ort « n 'o£, the firft of November, and to be continued every
T u«fday .during the season. • y
° d en9Uire M W ' tOUfe > Market-
Oi>. ■
ttbf
»
F0 R S ALE,
A valuable Plantation,
' IN Frederick County, Virginia, bounding nearly three
milts o.i the river Shenandoah, between Afhby's ti.ip.l
r and Snicker's Ferry ; 66 miles frt»m Alexandria, and the
s lite diflancp from the Federal City. It contains
-{ acres, 600 of which are cleared, the rpftdue finely tim
bered ; ths whole Limsflone or River Bottom ) abounding
; in fine streams and springs ; above 8o acres on the bank
> of the river may be tvatered at pleasure.- It is eaptble
> of being divided into Lots of too acres, with water in
*' each, -Which renders it peculiarly convenient for grazing
r or culture. It* situation for Health or Elegant improve
s ment is not to be lurpaffed in any inland country, and if
deemed too large for one Farm, may be'divided into two
" or three smaller ones, uniting in common advantages.—
1 There is now erected oil the Estate a good Merchant
' Mill, with two pair of ftenes (on a large limestone /pring)
that rents far 466 dollars per ann. arid en another never
" sailing-spring a good Saw Mill, with a flutter wheel ;
1 there-is plenty of pine timber i" the neighbering moun
tain, and a stream fuffiiient for another Mill with four
" pair of itones—thefe are adjacent to or immediately on
> 'the banks of the river, the navigation whereof is about
being opened into the Potomak and for more than 100
'■ allies above the mills. The other improvements on t"he
" filiate arc a new commodious Barn, the loft of which is
' capable of containing 15*0 buflieb; the t'lrefhmg-floor is
1 41 feet Square, well planked ; another (double) Log
parti, with Ihedc all around : a Dillillcry, with three
> large Stills, and a Granary above that will contain 500
biifhels, well covered with fliingles, and a stream of wa
ter, condufled by troughs, running thro* it; at a firiall
' distance is a large Cow-House and Stak'e, with Halls for
' it cows, paved with ftone'in the European manner, with
room for above 40 waggon loads of hiy 5 a little further
is a strong Hone-walled Spring-House, completely fitted
' far a Dairy. The whole of these Mills and Buildings
are at a proper distance from each other, and from the
' D-welling, which consists of three" commodious JPrame
Buildings, with the necessary conveniencies. A well in
> closed Garden of the fined loil, with a stream of water 1
running thro' it ; two large Apple Orchards; several
good Quarries for building and limestone ; a number of
Out-Houfes fer Managers, Blacksmith, Cooper, and lodg
ings for Men of Colour; —add greatly to the convenien
cies and value of this Estate.
The Purchaser, on paying one half the price agreed
for, may be accommodated with a considerable credit for
the remainder, and with the' Cattle, Ho»fes, Waggons,
Farming Utensils, and Furniture, at a re&fonable valua
tion. For other particulars, application may bu made te
the subscriber on the Estate, to Thomas Fitzfimons in
Philadelphia, or Matthias Slough, Lane after.
J. Holker.
Springibury, iith O&ober, 1796. —31ft iaw6
To fye Sold,
60,400 Acres of Land.
Lying on the river Alleghany, in the county of Nor- ■
thumberland, in the State of Pennsylvania.
400 Acres Land,
In Bald Eagle township, Northumberland ooanty
aforefaid.
60,000 Acres Land,
Lying en the waters of the Oconee and 'Canouchee
rivers, in the couuty of Washington, in the state of
Georgia.
174,000 Acres Land,
Lying on the waters of the Ohopee and Canouchee
rivers, in the county of Montgomery, in the state of .
Georgia.
• 3';°33 Acres Land,
Lying in Orangeburgh diftrifl, in the state of South
Carolina. And,
146,986 Acres Land, ■ '■ _
Lying in Charleston diftria, in the said state of South
Carolina.
An Half-acre Lot of Grond,
In tke town of Richmond, Virginia.
The above Lands will be fold low.—Apply to
George Meade.
. Philadelphia, ad November, 1796. diww&stf.
A Manufactory FOR SALE.
A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufactory, situate
in a convenient part of the city ; the works almost new,
on an entirely original conftruftion, and built of the best
materials, and may be set to work immediately. Persons
who wish to porchafe, ar« requested to applv at No. 279,
South Sesond Street.
September 13. t t f tf
Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64, South Second itkeet.
TCKETS m the CanSl Lottery, No. 2, for sale—a j
Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
the late lottery.
Check Books kept for examination and regifterin<r, for
the City of Washington, No. I, and Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which are' now drawing—information where
tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Motel aiid Public School Lottery for
examination.
The subscriber solicits the application of the public
- and his friends, who wish to purchase or fell Bank Stock
Certificates Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, 'Lands',
. or t0 obtain money on deposit of property.
V Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
sale at Ten Dolltrs each, which wUI be drawn early in
the Spring. '
Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, siutvfliß. 1706. mth
' ~ ROWLAND PARRT.' ~—
GOLD SMITH & JEWELLER,
Ckssnut-STRSET;
» iV rSe and de ?» nt of
1t- rr ARE and JEWHLLKRY, jappan-
W a CC Pnw » °f different patterns, Ivory
Handled Kn,yes and Forks, Knife Cases, &c. &c.— \s
the above articles (paticularly the plated) are of a very
superior quality, it is presumed they will merit the at
tention of these who wish to ptrchale, to whom they
y offered equitable terms.
- r S c VCr . fiate ' Mourning rings and
Lookets, Miniature Settings, and every thing in Gold
and Silver, made in the belt manner
e Not - 8 - ' ■ tth.
s For Sale.
7 cases coarse hats
Copper bottoms and sheets
S|»t, all sizes, patent and common
Sneet and barr lead
'* English (hoes and boots in cases
Tin plates
Gold watches
i. Taunton ale in casts.
k , Apply to
I Simon Walker,
No* 8. 124> So Fourth Street. I
to ~ wt n~ — d '4t-
Walhmgton Lottery.
?' Lon^v 4^"" 1 35th day£ ' driwin e o{ th = Washington
, r 1 ' are rcc£lved « the office No. 2 u M ar
ket-ftreet where t.ckets may be examined. 34 '
N. B. Information given where ticket, in all the oth-r
lotteries may be procured.
Noveabor 3, 1736,
Davis's Law Book Store
No. 3 , 3 , HIGH-STREET,
e, EORGE DAVIS announces to his profcflioral fri c ids
pj VJT and the Gentlemen of the Law icneially thro' the
Juuion, that his late importation of BOOKS it now arra ui ,.
J td, and ready for Sale, from a Tingle volume to an entire U~
brary, without any advance upon hit former exceeding ; ow "
, prices, which for fuveral years part have in so diftinguilhcd
manner recommended them to notice. 1
a Printed Catalogues combining the moll extensive collec
" tion cf the latest Englilh and Irilb Editions ever in)n 01l "j
1 into this country, are pablifhed, and will be delivered
' on application.
Orders addrefled to G. D. in writing from any dicta
shall be punflually attended to* J dncf
> A number of TRUNKS for Sale.
ALSO, TO BE LET,
A eonvenient LOFf, near Mai ket Street Wharf
( Nov - 8 - tukf 3 „
; r O B E S i, D, *< .
■ A LEASE forfca.cn years,from the 2stb March next, i„ tU
capital and beautiful FARM y called
\ PROS P£ C F-H ILL,
, Situated within one quarter of a mile from the Brandy w i M
. Mills, and halt a mile from the borbugh of WjlminMon
5 T'Hi dwelling house is built of stone. two stories bi g \
1 genteely finifhed, pod containsfqur handsome rooms od
. a floor, betides an entry, with capital garrets, and convenient
; cellars. It is generally thought to command the moil a *
greeable profpeft oi the Delaware, from the source of ifc.j
' livei to the Capos. This profpeft ia greatly embil;i!h et i 1,
" a full view of avail body of meadow, through which iJ
■ Christiana and Brandywine creeks are seen winding in beau
tiful meanders. Near the house are a Kitchen, a fuciow
1 stone flable and hayloft, a barn, a carriage fio U <e,' m | t
house, &c. and a well of aspuie water a* any 011 ti.'c co',
I nent. The garden contains an acre and quarter of land
i bounding with fruit, and particularly with peach lu-es „r
the very best kind, brought from Maryland, and in fuli bei
. ing. There is, moreover, on the place, a Vftung, ap .[]
. 'orchard tegining to bear, and leveral old trees ihat "produce
; abundantly, bclides cherry and other ornamental t, res [,
great numbers. The fx ™ consists »f near sixty acrei of Ud
■ of good quality, anU el'iar of incumbrances, txeept tdxtj'
twenty of which are now in excellent clover and iimotb '
arid ten more will be readyfor lowing next fpiing n ,I'.
Sder.ce ef nearly 8 yean# convinced the fubfciiber that
the fimation is remarkably healthy, The great post load
from Philadelphia to the Southward runs within fevtmV
yards of the house. In a word, the bttsties and cin, er ,;_
erce of this situation canrpt be eau<_rated ir> .••lalfceitii'c.
ment, and when will jjjobabiy coiumaad uic at
tention of any person who is desirous of living at one of the
raoft elegant country feats on the continent. The pureh ,f rr
may enter 011 the premifti next spring, or perhaps, this la|j
if application be immediately made to Dodtor NICHOLAS
WAY, i* to Doctor WH.'RXON, on tin
premiles, or, in his abfencc, to Mr. GEORGE TK.UITT in
Wilmington.
A quantity of excellent Hay, Grain in the ground, feme
Stork, &c. may be had by the purchaser at tbe tune of sale.
N°"- I- mi f
William Gardner, No. 62,
SOUTH FRONT-STREET,
Has received by the late arrivals from LiverpaoJ
and Glafjjow,
An ajfortment of DRT GOODS,
Which he will difpofd of upon low terms, for cash
6r the usual credit, by the piece or package—
Consisting Of
CAMBRICKS, Printed Calicoes and Chintj:ei
Printed Handkerchiefs and Shawls
Jaconet and Book Muslins, well aflbrted
Do. do. tamboured do.
Do. do. Handk's and Shawls do.
WnitC'giij wuluuuJ tliii.ida - —
Diaper and diaper'table cloth's
Cotton check and check handkerchiefs
Striped and coloured nankeens
Dimities and quiltings
Tapes and garters.
Cotton.counterpanes
Mens and ivomens gloves
Plats and ftockifigs
Ofnaburgs, bed-ticks and brown Holland
:' Stationary, &c. &c. &c.
1 November 3. mts
Imported in the late arr'ivils from Europe and the
Weft, dies,
Holland Gin, it* pipes
Choice St. Croix Sugar and Rum
Martinique Molaflss, in Itogfheads
Choice old Lilbon Wine, in pipes and quarter-casks
London Particular & London Market Madeira Wine,
in pipes, half-pipes and quarter-casks
, Malmsey Madeira Wins, in pipes and quarter-casks
Teneriffe Wine, in pipes
Ruflia & Flemish Sheeting and Ravens Dut-k, in cases '
Window Glafsi 3 by io, in boxes
Coffee Milla-and Sisaw Kniugfi,--***
Mill Saws and Cross-cut Saws, in boxes
Also, on hand,
A few chests of BoheaTea; Jel'uits Bark ; AlTafm
tida and Tapioca ; and a few bales of Co.faes,
Baftas, Gurrahs, Bandanna and Muslin Hamlker
, chiefs, and a complete aflortment of 5-4 and 6-4
Boulting Cloths.
For Sale by
Pragers & Co. •
O#ober zo djwrn&tkjm >
FOR SAL E.~.
r A PLANTATION,
ABOUT 12 miles from this City, situate inAhir>g
ton Township, Montgomery-County ; containing
3 70 atres, a new stone house, two stories high, 2 rooms on a
floor, fire places in each, a Ihme kitchen and stone fy* in S
. house, over an excellent spring-os water, a barn, stables,
r sheds, See. A large apple orchard, and a variety®
othcrfruit, acres of good meadow well.
. and wood fufficient for fire, and fencing the place. Poltifll
on may be had-.the ift qf April next. Property in
1 will be taken in excrange,"orlVFOltßlS arfd NICHOLSONS
Notes'payment.-- inquire jytNa. -37, Arch-§treet.
1-3*; T7 *'"
FOR "§.ALE,
About i,oqo acres'of
WELL fittiated, laying on and, between MirQx
and Beech Creeks, Mifflin county, Pennfylvinil, in
four separate Patents.- For terms ot sale apply 10
Win. Blackburn,
' -Nat Sfcond-ftreet.
OiSober 31. v ■ niwftf
Univeriity. of Fennfylyanif)
OBober S, 179 6 '
The Medical Ledlures will eommence the firft Mon
in Kovcmher. taw.^w
d —; —— ■■ ■ .
" PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO,
r 119
C H E S N W T-S T P. E E T.
t {Price Fight Dollars prr Annum.]
■ 4r- '