'
of tie tStlitetJ States, Philadelphia Dally Advert' 'i
Number 1313.] WEDNESDAT EVENING, NOVEMBER 23, 1796. {Toztw,- X.
- 1 rTM I • ITT n T 1* ' /""I
For NORFOLK,
%B|M» The Brig SIX BROTHERS,
t*-'?-, John Needhim, miller; wil fall in 6
or 8 d»y» —For freight or passage apply to tie captain
•n board, or to
Joseph Anthony & Gfl.
Nov. »i. c *4
The Captain has a few barrels of Rum
£ ancLilil on board for sale.
Jfagfev For freight or Charter
To Europe or the W.lndies,
jgPJtC The new Brig FAIR AMERICAN,
"Richard Calley, Master ; burthen 14.? tons j has
good accommodations, and is now ready to reeeive a
wr „ o; —apply to the Captain oh board, firft wharf
above the Still-House, Siuthwark, or to
Isaac Harvey, jun.
Who has now for sale, at his ftdre, No. 5, South
Water-street,
A quantity of Cayenne and Trinidad Cotton
Spanish Soal Leather
And a parcel of Carolina Rice, in whole and half
tierces. nth mo. nth. daw
BARTER.
r— —For Sale, a good strong built ship, bur
then ijjobarrels, nearly riew, well found
can be put to sea at a small expence.
.VttiH'liifV Pj y"" ,nt ' will be received in English or
India goods, or if more agreeable to the purchaser, 3,
6, and 9 months credit would be given on approved
notes, for further particulars enquire at No. 8, South
Water-street, or Nr. -z<) North Third-street.
November 16. < l7 t
For Madeira, j
The ship .Concord,
Capt. John Thomson. For freight
isS pafTaze apply on board, or to
' Peter, Blight;
Who has for sale, a quantity of
Brandy, in pipes
Whiting and Copperas, in hogshead.
Old Hock, in cases
Dutch Cream-Cheese, in boxes
Window Glass
Empty Gin-Cases
Glass Ware, in boxes
Painters' Colours, ground in oil
Sweet Oil, in cases of a dozen bottles each
Hazlcnuts, in sacks.
November xi. dim
—, — . . c
Wanted to Charter,
J Jpljiv A faji-failing Vessel,
E will carry 5 or 600 barrels ; to
A- -SUiSafef- load immediately for the Weft-Indies.
Apply to
Peter Blight.
November 10. dx
~ ~FOR LONDON. ~
Ths capiui Hup tERES, "
£\ T 0 f° on : —f " r freight or pafjage jj
to DAVY, ROBERTS & Co. or
John Vaughan,
September 10. Front-street.
FOR SALE, ~
T THE SHIP MART, L
SAMUEL PARKEW., Mastfr,
hundred tons burthen. Anplvto 11
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MAR\ is not fold in a few days, (he will take » T
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
Oflober 31. d
Just arrived, and will this day be laru
ded from on board the brig FAVORITE at Chefntt >.
ftrect wharf. kM
25 Tons bejl RuJJia Clean HEMP, r
j6 Tons old SaJ)lc flat IRON,
SCO Coils best Russia CORD \C,F., aflbrted fiiei,
aOO Pieces brown Ruflia SHEETINGS,
100 Bolls Russia DUCK, —
Pieces Ravens do.
*0 Half-flown frathrr biduisd ri
A -few piccesilFprttd DI £ PER. U
FOR SALE ST
Joseph Anthony and Co.
abore mentioned BRIG
'* a ew<i,v », '"d ttk; freight on
mO . ' rJ,e trrm ® f °r Boftor, or Silem, for
«3i*6v-'!j*!9fe-»whtch or pafTage, apply on board or as above
October }t.
i'or Charter, ~ 37
The Ship JO HN BULKELT,
• AyrLs Stocxley, Master.
txre " ent '' ve -°ak and cedar built
of about 3000 barrels burthen —Ap- ...
JeJfe y Robert Main,
Nov. "
wtjjTTi. For London, —
The Jhip William Penn, By
J oflah ' maste r- Will fail with all
speed. For freight or paiTa.'e
apply to the Captain on board, or to 0
Jeffe and Robert Wain.
November 10, 1796. j
For Lisbon, Fir
ifrjSSfcv TheDanift barque Bmiventora,
SAMt'SL Stub, Master, ' f
ri\ !r\*£sp A good vessel of about two hundred e
a^l?^-* tOnS bUrthC! " F ° rfrdght EfT
7# Cf Robert Wain. S
W .21 the
For Liverpool, —
. y 5- " - " 4 The Ship DO Ml NICK TERR T,
Jacob Dihart, Master. !n
a 8 a P cargo cng'detd.—
For frci ? ht or apply to the inaA
- tcr board, at the whar. of the fuh
feribers, or,
Jefe Robert Wain. ™
Kov - 7■ d. N
For Sale or Charter,
The Brig Lady Wajhingfon,
in 6 Built in New-England in 1790, and
itain completely repaired the present year; file is 133 tons
burthen f has uowed 515 hhds. of feed, and !.}porM.
ftavrs, and 1s now in good »rder to perform an European
voyage with Kttle erpenfe. For particulars and terms
of payment apply to the master on board, or to
um Samuel CoateS,
No. Ba, Sot'th Front-street.
gj. d'ifoy onboard fa'ul vejfil, for fate,
Forty hog/heads Newbury Rum.
Kovember %%.
IN, 7
has For Sligo and Kijlibegs,
harf The American Ship Nanct,
Cuthbert Kiggs, master.
Will fail with all convenient speed. For
freight or patfage apply to
uth William Bell;
Who has for sale, 1
4 Trunks Printed Cotton*, well aflorted
half 3 Bales Irish Flannels, and 1 boxes Linen*
v 35 Pipes Brandy
— Madeira Wine ; Indigo . Russia Mitti.
Also,
A few barrels Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
lllld ' OATMEAL, &c.
ice November 11, 1796, mwftf
or For Sale, or Charter,
V,d The Ship DIANA,
ut '' Samuel Pile, Master,
Burthen 205 47-95 tons register, built in
t iifeSiC" Philadelphia it) the year 1791, of live oak
and red ccdar, and was sheathed 13 months ago, (he
has just had a compleat out-fit, and may be fen.t to sea
at 1 \er>- trillinc expence.
for ctrirw apbty ttr
S ht Philip Nicklin & Co.
trio hetve far sale on iaard fu'td vejftl, ,
«• cafics of fine yellow paint.
9 boxes and 12 bundles of writing slates.
1 box ink stands and note prefles.
14 bales of fail canvass.
And en handy
Imperial
Hyson, and, > TEAS.
Souchong J
4 40,000 pieces Nankeens of the flrft quality. j
19 tubs Qiiickfilver.
s chests Bandanno handkerchiefs.
A few ch«fts Manchester goodswell afTorted in Cor
— duroys, thicksets, Ginghams, IV'uflinets, Dimities, 3tc.
3 boxes black fewirig silk. 1
1 )jo crates Queens ware well afTorted. J
10 tons sheet lead.
0 Nails afTorted, fiat and foarp points.
London Particular, ")
" London Market, f Made.ra W.ne ,n p.pes
New-York Market, 5 3nd hogftlcids
-40 pipes and 10 h->gfheads Teneriffe wine.
S tierces Snake Root.
230 logs Mahoeanv.
Nov 7. " tth&ftf.
FR( )i J USAKS; > ¥
By WILLIAM COBBET f t oppofjw Christ Church, Phi
or ladelphia, for publiihing hy fubicription,
ADAMS'S
_ Defence of the American Constitutions.
CONDITIONS :
I. The work (hall be printed on English wove-paper, paje
for page, from the bed London Edition; of course it
will be comprized in three large o<Slavo volumes. ~
11. For the three volumes, bound in boards, the price to
fubferibers is to be only four dollars, and to nen-fubl'cri- /"
bers, five dollars and a half V.
cc IT!. The fubferipeion shall remain open for ten days, and
if an encouraging number of fubferibers are obtained in
_ that time, the publisher engages to have the work ready
for deliveryin fix weeks from the present date.
15 th November, 1796.
Bt N. B. Subferiptions are ts ken by the principal books ti
lers of Philadelphia aud New York
tr The fubferibers to the History of Jaeobinifm are ref
peiSfully informed, that it will be ready for delivery
early next week. £ CI
Nov 16. §x. ' ri
A Capital Sale at Auction.
OnThurfday the 24th inft. at 10 o'clock a. m. at Mr
Morris's bark stores in Taylor's-alley, near Front,
between Chtfnut and Walnut-ilreets, will be fold,
by the bale and in lot«,
A Qiiantily of 4-
Fresh imported Woolens •
]l CONSISTING OF « h
IS Bales Rose and Striped Blanket., afTorted, about
— 371. sterling each.
3 Ditto Point ditto.
it Ditto Flannels, Bai2es, and Swanfelni.
10 Ditto Coatings, mixed and blue.
i, 2 Cases Hoiirry.
Printed Catalogues of tb« above will be handed out at
the fubfcribej-'s store, and the Goods opened for infpec
tioa the day previous to the Sale, of which the terms
will be approved Notes at feventy-fiv. days.
JOHN CONNELLY, Auflipneer. H r
" November 22.
Just Published, ~
By MATMEW CAREY, at No. 118, Market-street,
1 PART FIRST OF 3
An A D D R E S Sim
To the Electors of the President of the
United States,
First published in the Gazette of the United States, in ?, h
a series of paprrs under the signature ei ,%! a
"A federalist:"
Containing feme ftriflure. on Mr. Adams'. Dt
cT e X L Amencan Constitutions, and on the v,
EfTays of Phociok, since published without that
signature, in a pamphlet entitled » The pretensions of
Thomas Jefferion to the Prefideney examined, aud f" 1
the charges agamft Jthn Adams refuted.'' XV 1
Nov. 22. ~ Cos
1 his Day is Fubliflied, Ml '
In an octavo pannp},!et, by J. ORMROD, No. 41, A f
Chefnut-ftreet,
All Authentic Iranjlation of B
A N O T E cl
From th, Mimfler of the French Republic, to the
Secretary of State the United State,.
Nov. 22. , _
t 0
This Day will be Landed,
tl, From on board the brig Difpaton, Captain P. Brum,
j from Malaga, at Morris's wharf, jufl above the
Drawbridge,
S! - FRESH FRUITS, viz.
an Raifirn, in k#gs, boxes and baikets
ms Figs in keg»
Prunes in boxes
Gr\r'" m jars
et. Olfr-i in ditto
Lemons in clx-fts
Anchovies in kegs
Almonds, fcft (helled, in sack's
_ Also,
Brandy in butts
Sweet Mountain Wine in quarter-oafk«—&c.
For Sale by
Peter Kuhn.
cr November 17. §6
THE Partnerihip of JONATHAN HARVEY & Co.
biing this day Dissolved by mu'val conftnt, those indebt
ed to said Srm are requested to make fpecdy payment to
Jonathan Harvey, who is authorized to receive the fame,
and those who have any den>» nds will please to bring in
their accounts to him for Settlement.
The Bujinefs will be Continued
By Jonathan Harvey,
AT HIS STORE NO. 106, S. FRONT-STREET; J
— Where he has for Sale,
A general aflbrtment of Dry Goods.
November 14, 1796. Jim
For bale.
'? 7 cases coarse hats
' Copper bottoms and feeets
Shot, all'fizes, patent and common
"* a Sheet and barr lead
Knglifh Ihoes and boots in cases
i i. )>!*».
Gold watches
Taunton ale in calk*.
Apply to
Simon Walker,
114, So. Fourth Street.
N " v - 8. di4t.
0 L D
London ParticuFar Madeira Wine,
In pipes, hogflieads and quarter-casks,
Landing this day at Chefnut-ftreet Wharf, and
for sals by
Jofepb Anthony & Co.
Nov. I. d
Best Boston & Nova-Scotia Mackarel,
Excellent Halifax Salmon in bbls.
47 hbla. prime Coffee, /
Best Boftpn Beef,
Codfiih in lids.
Spermaceti Candles,
Spermaceti, and 1 r\ t t
Northern J OIL.
Mould and dipt, tallow candles, of a superior r
■I' 1 " » | J;
A few box es">xcell<;nr uiuwirfuap," - -
6 llalos of Corks. p
40 Pipes excellent I.ifbon Wine. g (
A few sicks of Feathers. ■ » p
A few bales India Muslins. I £
FOR SALE nr S
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co. ,
d
1 he Cargo of the Polacre Independent,
CAPTAIN CATHCART, from Alicant and Lif- K
bon, landing at the fubferibers wharf— —
28 Pipes of Brandy
18 Bales of Spanifl) wool 0
3 do. of Annifeed
7000 Bushels of best Lifoon Salt Si
80 Boxes of Lemons r
For file by WILLINGS & FRANCIS. B
ALSO, Si
Seventy Ilogtheads of prime JAMAICA SUGARS, K
received by the ihip Dominick Terry, Capt. DeHart, Sl
from Kingston. Bi
_ Sept. 13. d H
- ■ Q]
Irish Linens, &c. sc
Y;
Imported per the ships Glajgvw, from Dublin, Liber- 5'
ty, from Cork, and brig Mentor, from BelfaJJ,
4-4 and 7-8 Wide IRISH LINENS
In whole and half boxes, ' of
Assorted from nd. to 4s. sterling— Also 5.* wide
Sheetings, and low priced yarn and worftcd Hose.
On Hand,
7*B Wide Lawns.
Diapers and Tablc-Cloths
A few boxesTickens and Checks
A few bale* Flannels
Cork and Belfaft Sail Cloth, No«. 1 and 6
3J ® OXCS ? C6by g, D
10 Ditto t Window Glass, 1 7 bv o
D 'fc ° -j C 8 by 10.
Ihe above mentioned Goods are all entitled to the
drawback, and will be dirpofed of by the package en
reasonable terms. s to
James, Clibborn & Englift,
_ , No. 6, N. Front-ftrcct. ""
loth wo. 19th. dt £
Imported in the late arrrml, from Europe and the 1 o
Wejl-Iniies,
Holland Gin, in pipes i
Choice St. Croix Sugar and Rum ' otl
Martinique Molaffts, in hogsheads _J
P d H 1 *™ 1 Wine, P'P" md quarter-casks
.London Particular & London Market Madeira Wine
in pipes, half-pipes and quarter-cjfks ' r /
Malmsey Madeira Win., in pipes and quartor-caflts
I enenfte Vv ine, in pipes j
SV-2 f Sheeting and Ravens Dutk, in cases
\V indow Glass, 3by 10, in boxes . a '
1 Mills and Straw KnivM* in caflcs A
I Mill Saws and Croii-cut Saws, in boxes
Also, on band,
Boh " T " ; J efu!ts B "k ; Aflafa- ]
tida and Tapioca ; and a few bales of Coffi.es
chiefs' B r af,d Muslin Hanker!
BjultJng a(r ° rtmCI ' tof and '"4
Far Sale by
n/1 . Probers & Co.
° aoberso dawm&tham U
11 '
The brig Weft-Indian's Cargo
rum, Will be Landed on Monday morning,
The l\jl injlant.
At South-facet Wharf,
From the Morth fide of Jamaica.
I «0 Hogftecds and one barrel Coffte
13 Hogflvads of Sugar
105 Hoglkcads high proof Rum.
For Sale by
PETER BLIGHT.
November 19. §x
For bate,
By Jehu Hollingfivortb, & Co.
45 bhds. Weft-India Rum, 3d and 4th proof,
5 Barrels belt Indigo, and,
A few thousand bumels of Turk's Island fait."
OA. 17. d.
• — 1- -
juji Landing,
r And for Sale, a quantity of
,VJr BOURDEAUX BRANDY,
it to "FROM on board the schooner Lydia & Polly, Oliver
ime Jenkins master, lying: at Wilcock's wharf. For
_ terns, enquire on board said schooner.
November tjth. §1 yr
For Sale,
AThre«-ftory BRICK HOUSE and Lot, ip Chtfnuc
flreet, between Front and Second streets, in wfcich
IT • Messrs. James Calbraith & Co. hive for,many years (ani
now do; carried on business.
Poffeflion will be given in pne month, or fooncr.
"*• For terms apply t» WILLIAM BEIJL, or
, HECTOR CALBRAITH.
A P r?l "• fr;
Jult Landing,
At Southflreet wharf, from en board the /hip Sedg
ley, Captain Hodge, from St. Petersburg,
The following Goods:
Rnflia SaU Duck, firft quality.
Do. Sheeting do.
l)o. Diaper.
Do. Huckaback.
Do. Crash.
t Do. Mould Candles, 4, 5 and,;*, to th« lb. of tfae
t Englilh size.
Do. White Candle Tallow.
Do- White Soip in small boxes.
Do. Cordage of fine yarn.
e, Ravens Duck.
lfinglafs, jft and jend fort.
, Horse Hair uncurlcd.
Ruflia Bar Iron.
Do. Hoop Iron.
Do. Nail Rods.
| 10 Tons Oakum and Junk.
St. Peteriburg Cleon Hemp:
]j For Sal< by
Philips, Cramond, & C«.
October u.
Fashionable Waistcoating.
GEORGE DOBSON, No. 25,
SOUTH. THIRD-STREET,
ior aS recerjed t* r Diana, from London,
Clouded and Hriped Spjnilh Swanfdown
...J f ; na
"Striped do. and do. ~ ~~— 1 "•
Figured Manillas
Scarlet figured Ermintts
Printed Florinetts
Do. C.-,fiinets and Caffimer?*
Superfine printed Quiltings, newest pattern?
Also, per different arrivals,
A large and general assortment of Dry
"7 Goods,
•r -k> Suitable to the present and approachmg season.
November c. j t r
LANDING, ~
Out of different vrjcls from England, and for fak
by the fuljeribers on reafenable termt,
Superfine and common cloths, and ca (Timers
Ribbed and striped do. do. '
Blankets , mottled green and silk rugs.
Superfine blue, Claret, and common coatings,
IS, Kerseys, Bear-feins, plains and Halfthicks,
rt, Swanflcins, Serges and Flannels,
British Ingrain Carpeting,
Hats assorted in cases of 11 doZ. escfl.
— Chocolate chintzes, printed Callicoes and Hasdkerehiefi.
Scarlet Cardinals, and Scarlet Snail,
Worftcd, and Cotton hofierv,
•r- Tbickfetts, Velvets, Corduroys, &c. &c.
Bulrand drab Gcifoa Cords of a superior quality.
Sir *ir * I2d " 2od - nai ' 8 > an d frying pans,
? Anaffortmcnt of Ironmongery, Cutlery and a variety
of India cotton, and silk g« u ds.
Ie Thomas Ess "Jo/hita Fijher.
Also by the Glafgowfrom Dublin, *' Dock"fttrfet
i-u and 4-4 Irilh Linens affortedia boxes of so pieces,
do. Brown, Glazed Linnen.
oa. 1 7 . dlf
For Sale,
By y. WARDER, PARKER & Ct.
An Invoice of Cordage,
mi t0 C °f*[ a S°l differen * si"», from i ( inch cables down
t L <V t inches, of different lengths. Imported in
Prom Hull, -rom Hull, and entitled to drawback. ;
***• a - dtf
Washington Lottery, y '
be Lotev 3B N and 39th days ' drawin e of V/alUgton
Lottery, No. », are received at the office N.„ i, 4) M sr .
ket-ftreet, where tickets may be examined.
N. B. Information giVen where tiskets in all the other
lotteries may be procured. x ?
November 17, 1796. v_
~ SALT PETRir
" r 1 quantit y of Double-Refined Salt P*re f or
sale at No. aj , S.U»h Third-street. 1
November 5.
» ~ fUK a all,
A few hogsheads of choice Near-England RUM
A number of barreU of BEEF, and PORK '
And a few kegs of LARD, of a superior quality
. Enquire at N°. 71, north Water-street. '
November 8, 17q6 j~,\. .
! 10 hogsheads fc»t. Croix Rum» —~
I 5 Pipes Vinegar,
For Sale, by
Ezekiel Hall,
jj ov> j No - ,0 > P«n Street.
->x — =_ '
\ FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE,
By the ship Faiw, captain Harris, arrived at New-
York, in 34 days from London.
15RUSSELLS, September 27.
Aft«r the paflage of the Lahn by the ArcKduke
'-General Jourdan efftfted his retreat to Neuwied,
Bonn, and the Sieg. Hit right wing pasTed the
Rhine, to take a position in the Hundfruck ; the
right retreated with precipitation towards theSieg,
and the ccntre towards Bonn. To cover this retro
grade motion, General Marceau was left at Alten
kirchen, with a large body of troops. On the
20th September atday break, the Auftrians ap
proached this post, and while another column ad
vanced upon the front of the army, a third turned
the left.
Theit attack was made with the greatell impetu
osity, and they were received with incredible brave
ry by the French ; the action being for a long
time-supported with inconceivable fury and obstina
cy ; the field was covered every where with the
dead and dying ; but at length the Republisans,
forced at all points, were obliged to make a preci
pitate retreat. The accounts of their loss have, no
doubt, been exaggerated and represented as enor
mous. However, it is a fad, that the brave Gen.
Marceau was mortally wounded, and has fallen into
the hands of the enemy.
After such an important check, nothing but the
best retreat wy to be thought of. The Republi
cans seemed determined to maintain their position
at the head of the bridge of Neuwied. . The head
quarters are transferred to Cologne. Gen. Poncet's
division has crofTed the Rhiae at Bonn, where the
bridge is chained to the left shore, because the Ger
man peafantß on the other fide attempted to set it
on fire, which obliged the French to difeharge their
mnfquets against them ; in the mean while a strong
corps of the army has taken a position at Ports, and
Elbach, the Sieg, where it is not imagined
they caj)jrtiaintain themselves ; Bournonville has ta- '
taken the command : Couricils-of war are frequent;
but what is moil general is the affis&ing want of I 1
discipline. When the last intelligence came away, 1
tfce Auftrians (hewed, thenjfelves in the plains of . \
Neuwied, to make a frefh attack, their cavalry li- ,
lied the whole shore between Cologne and Bonn, ]
aad we have reason ro expect moie events of the
highest importance : reinforcements continue arriv- •
ing, 8,000 of the north have passed the Rhine to 1
Dufleldorf. On the other hand, a body of Auftri- j
ans from Mcntz, are approaching the Nahe ; but it
not true, as reported, that the Auftiians are at
"Treves.
PARIS, September 28.
' X.etttrs from Naples assure ue, that the French
republic has required from his Sicilian tnajefty a
contribution of fifty millions of livres, which re
quisition has been rrfufed.—L'Eclair.
One of eur Journals pretends, that Jourdan was
wounded near Wurtzbourg. The fame Journal
adds, that the duke of Wirtemburg has not ratified
the peace with France, and has even lecalled his
minister from Paris. Such an imprudence appears
*, 1 ' j i,i , "' T *-— —-—* ———
From Florence we learn, there is to be held a
congress there, in order to terminate the peacc with
the Pope and Naples Courier dt Paris.
The military council*concluded yesterday its de
bates relative to the 25 insurgents of Grenelle tried
jbefore them. The conclufiuns of the »eporter tend
ed to fend General Fion and another accused person
to the high court of justice, because they were im
plicated in the affair of Baboeuf. Four were con
demned to death, fix to banilhment, three to im
prisonment, and the reft were set at liberty.
. Tbefe conclusions were adopted.
From Milan we learn, that on the sth of Sep- 1
tember, General Buonaparte granted a generalarr- ]
nefty to all who had taken part in the rebellion of ]
the ift, 2d, and $d of August. He has betides j
given back to the poor the effects of which tbey have ,
been deprived, in order to pay their part of a con
tribution of one million, to which the inhabitants
were fubjefted. Those only who were condemned
far contumacy are to have their effects sequestered
and confiscated to the Republic.
September 30.
The Jpurnal des Hommes Libres fays, rhat in
Envoy from Prussia is arrived at Paris to enter into
a treaty tefpefling the inteteds of the ci-devant
Stadtholder, and the indemnity to be granted him.
It is, in lad, fufficiently probable, that the King '
of Prussia will profit of his credit with the Direc- '
tory to endeavour to obtain fomethiiig for his bro- '
ther in-law ; but it is only at the general peace that '
this can be treated of. Some EcclcGaftical Eleflo- !
rate may probably be demanded f-r hfm.
( L'Eclair.) '
The piflures and statues colkaed at Milan, Bo
logna, and other places in Italy, are on the road to
1 France. They are supposed to be at present on
French ground. ]
—s, October 1.
four eonfpirators, condemned to death by ]
the Military Commission, were (hot yelifrday in the \
• plain e? Grenelle.
Odtober 1.
General r Jourdan is here, and has dined with fe- '
»eral members of the Dire&ory. We are allured '
he will deptrt withoat feeing Benezech, to take the '
'command of the army of the North. »
General Bournonville's address to the army of the
Samhre and Meufc.
44 Brave Comrades !
" General Jourdan, who has so often conducted
-you to vi&ory, is compelled to retire, and to submit
to a separation from you ; his health, impaired by
a scries of labour and fatigue, does not permit him}
to continue to exercise his accultomed care of you, '
sud the executive diredtory charges me to replace
I'm. I do not liiflemble brave comrades, the diffi.
— culty of the task a Signed roe, and I ipuft depend
upon your good will to second ray endeavours upon
accepting a command which is so much the more •
arduous that the two banks of the F.hinc are fdp
fli«d with but weak rcfourccs Th« Grft virtue
! which I fit all aik of you re patience ;as for valour,
you are Frenchmen, and the brave army of the Sam
> bre and Meufc has proved itfelf to be worthy of
the char after.
" Citizen Alexandre* the commissary of govern
ment, who will replace citizen Joubert, is employ
ed in providing the means of subsistence and other
neceflaries that you may require ; he is aftivs in «-
e very thing, he is bofy day and night, his anxiety is
» as great as my own, and you must be convinced
c that we (hall spare no pains to procure for you at
e least what is necefiary, as much as circumstances will
» permit.
" You must be sensible, my dear companions,
" that plunder leads to want, that want of food leads
e to want of fubardinatiort, and want of iubordiiiati
' on to defeat. Will the brave army of the Sambre
and Meufe fuffer the armies of the Rhine and Mo
" felle, and of Italy, to be covered with glory, while
want of discipline renders it incapable of conquer.
' ing an enemy who has nothing to oppofeto it but
" unavailing effrontery.
! " Brave comrades, refpeft tlie inhabitants of the
" country beyoad the Rhine, and their properties, o
c bey your officers and your generals ; we have a de
> fert to pass through till we reach the Mein ; let us
cut through it and fly to vittory, and in a littli
' time we (hall be in want of nothing. But leave to
' your generals the care of providing for your fubfif
■ tence ; and far be from yc«j the horrors committed
' by those who have fotfaken your standard and aban
doned you.
: " Your brethren of the army of the North are
arrived ; they burn with zeal to (ght with yoa on
1 all fides, and to fliarc your warlike toils ; let the
' mod intimate union reign between you j let there
5 be no other rivalfhip than that of glory, no other
: emulation than that of honour ; let your redoub
led blows beat down your enemies ; they are ene
c mies whom you have often beu, continue ft'ill to
r vanquith them, and a glorious peace will soon fix
• your success, and afTure you of its reward.
' " I have seen the brave army of the Sambre and
1 Meufe—l have seen it with that bold and snartial count
tenance which charaflerifes the lovt of one's country,
and the ambition ol conquest. I am convinced, that
p there is not left one plunderer under arms, and that
the army is purified. Let us prepare for new fuccefles;
[. and depend upon it, you will find in me the fame care,
1 the fame folicitudc, and the fame tenderuefs, that you
• experienced in general Jourdan, with whom I would
, have wished only to ftiare the fatigue and the command.
> But my entreaties have been vain—l have not been
. able to preserve him with you—His health obliges him
( to retire. Believe me, his good qualities are deeply
imprinted on my heart, antfthat I ihall do every thisg
in my power, to leflcn the regret you must feel for his
absence.
i " The general in chief gives notice, that he will
not accept of any resignation ; and that he will consi
der as deserters, all those who retire without his p«r
rr.iflion ; and that he will denounce them as such to
the country. (Signed) ✓
' » BOURNONVILLE, general in chief."
1
LONDON, Oftobern.
* J
Eail Fitzwillum's Amendment.
1 The following is a corrcft copy of the amendment
1 on the address of thanks for the king's speech,
I moved in the house of lords on Thursday last, by
earl Fitzwilliam.
_ " That rhiy ftrpnrrlir rh+-
jultice and neceluty of the present war. carried on
for the maintenance of civil and moral order in the
world, and for securing the balance ef power in Eu
rope, and the independence of all ftatei, will con
tinue to give his majesty a vigorous support in assert
ing the general cause of his majesty aild his allies,
and for preserving the good faith, dignity and ho
nour of the crown, in full afTurance that no steps
will be taken inconsistent with those principles, or
with the future fafety and prosperity of these king,
doms ; and should the apparently hostile dispositions
of the court of Madrid, infligated by the intrigues
and menaces of the common enemy, put his majef
• ty under the necessity of repelling force by force,
' his majesty may rely on the determination of this
F house, to give his majesty the most ample support
1 in defending, against every aggression, the dignity,
rights, ind intcrefts of the Britidi empire."
The documents collected at Vcndome, for the
' trial of the accomplices of Drouet, amount to
I 6000. There are 42 persons to be tried. Each
document is to be copied two and forty times, be
cause the penal code expressly fays, that each of
the accused (hall, after the usual interrogatoriet, I
receive a copy of each proceeding. Thus there J
must be 252,000 copies in all, which, allowing one '
half hour for each, will take up 126,000 .hours '
; A clerk employed ten hours a day will finiffi 20 '
copies, and the 20 clerks attached to t.ie High 1
Court of Justice can furnifh only 400 in the course '
of a day. Thus all the copies will take up more
than a year to be completed. We may confcquent- 1
ly form an idea of the long delay to which the pro- '
ceedings of the Court must neceffitrily be fubjed. 1
HARWICH, October 2. '
Captain Kerkaldy spoke a neutral vefTel on his '
way over, who informed him, that 3000 of the '
Dutch pccple at Amsterdam pataded the streets 1
with the orange cockades in their bats. Imracdi- *
ately on the express arriving, which announced the
aichduke's success over Jourdan, 60 of the crew, '
belonging to the Dutch admiral's (hip mutinied | '
and it is said that the diQentions are so general a- '
mong the crews, that they are fearful of fending 1
the fleet to sea, left they (hou'.d compel their com- I
mandsrs ro strike to the British force." i
THIS BAY IS PUBLISHED, x i
Price 37 1-2 Cents. t
The Pretensions of Thomas JefFer- |
foa to the Presidency,
examined, f
And the Charges against John Adams f
REFUTED.
Addrefled to the Citizens of America in general, ;
and, particularly,
Tt the Electors of the Preftdent.
Sold by .
W. YOUNG, MILLS & SON, Corner of Second
IscTcmoer j, ttt J
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES,
f _
PHOCION—No. XXV.
AN examination of Mr. Jefferfon'# report on
- weights and MEASURES will close our ftri£tures.
r Tlii« report, like the reft of his works, has been
• highly extolled by his votaries, few of whom, it is
3 presumed, hive read it, and fewer ft ill have been
J able to understand it. The unprejudiced who have
' read it, and who are able to understand it, cannot
1 hesitate to pronounce that it abounds with plagia
risms, absurdities and erroneous principles.
» This we (hall demonstrate. There is a circum
-3 ftancc however to be previously noticed, which will
- place in a very ridiculous point of view Mr. Jeffer*
: lon's affectation of a wonderful depth of fcienee in
- mathematics. In his letter to the speaker of the
: house of representatives, accompanying the report,
• he tells us, " that the resolution calling for the re-
I port was dated the 15th January, 1790, that by ab
sence from New-York, he did not receive the resolu
tion till the 15th of April, that an illntfs added
■ fame -weeks to the delay, and that the report was
finifhed about the 10th of May." Now, supposing
' hit illness to have been only of two weeks, he coyld
not, according to his own account, have begun the
• report till about the firfl; of May ; yet on or about
• the 20th, he fays, the report was finifhed ; here he '
' wished to impress a belief that, notwithstanding all
■ his other avocations, which mull have been consi
derably multiplied by his recent arrival at the feat
! of government, he was able to accompliih, In about
1 three weeks, a work, the very calculations alone of
which would employ the bed mathematician, several
weeks ; these circumftauces prove beyond a doubt,
either that Mr. Jefferfon was prepared to report by
previous ftady, aad attempted to impose on the house
an opinion of extraordinary intuition, or that he
received very aonfiderable aid in the execution of
the report.* This is certain, that no one man could,
in the space of three weeks, compose such a work,
imperfect as it it, with all the calculations it con
tains, even were his whole attention devoted to it ;
much less could it have been accomplifiied, within
that period, by the secretary of state, whose other
numerous avocations must have divided his time, and
who afterwards required twelve weeks for his memo
rial against Great-Britain, and near three years for
his commercial report. But he further tells us, that
after this report wasfinifhed, on the 20th May, he
kept it back It lejfen its imperfeSions ;it seems then
it was finifhed imperfedly : Why make a boa ft of
its being fini/hed in two or three weeks, when it was
necefTary to keep it back to leffea its imperfe&ions ?
He goes on to fay, that ob the he re
ceived the Bishop of /luiuti'i proposition on the sams
fubje£t in the National AJfembly, that he, Mr. Jef
fcrlon, had affunaed by which to fix our stan
dard, but, " finding that the Nationalsljfcmbly had
chofcn 45 ®, he did not hejitate one moment to prefer
45° ,0 3®° i" that it then became necessary to re- ■
form ail his calculations, an operation, which was re
tarded by his other occupations ; all was however
completed by the 4th of July. Now the whole fe
, cret of this was molt probably, that Mr. Jefferfon,
aided by bookt and the New-York prefeffor, had
prepared a fketeh of a report, which he would not
which was known to be in agitation, in order to
conform our's to that, and that not being bold e
nough to tell the house the true cause of his delay,
he refoited to the above ineonfiftent and cxtrava- *
gant story. 8
Having disposed of the mtroduftory letter, we c
now come to the report. Mr. Jefferfon was requi- c
red, " to report to the house a proper plan, for ]
establishing uniformity in the currency, weights and
meafutes of the United States."
The object of a plain, sensible man, more anxi- r
ous to render solid services to the country than to ?
acquire reputation by a pedantic display of science, 1
would naturally have been, to ascertain tjie exifling a
currency, weights andmeafures in the Unitfcd States,
and to eltablifh such a flandard as would be most c
conformable to the general use, and attended with *
the least innovation aßd distress. Jn refpea to uni- f
formity in meafure9, nothing more would have been 2
requisite tnan to have proposed that some determi-
oed rtandard Ihould be made, and lodged in forae a
publia depofitoiiy, to whieh access might be had, '
when necessary. .Instead of this, Mr. Jefferfon
a fyrtem, which profeffes extreme minuUnefs, ■
preciftan and accuracy, and yet, when examined, is t
found to leave every thing to thefli/1 and accuracy of •
a watch-maker a fyttem, depending on criteria,
which heconfidered as important, and yet whkh are u
not defined in such manner, as to admit of an appli- ~
caiion of them. '
He begins the report with observing " that there
ex.fts not in nature a fioglc fubjeft, or species cf r '
fubjeft, acceflible to man, which presents one con- P
ftant and uniform dimevfion." The caufcs of this
variation of dimension are stated to be exbanfwn
and contraction, occaiioned by change cf tempera•
lure. Iron is stated to be the leafl expantdl of me- J
tals, and the degree of expansion of a pendulum
of 7 inches is said to be from 200 to 300 parts
of an inch. , p
Mr. Jefferfon, however, fays that the globe of I al
the earth might b« considered as invariable in all its w
dmevfions, and that its circumference would furnifh tl
an invariable measure. But if a small portion of the t[
lead e-xpanfible metal, iron, is so affected by tern- ~
perature, how can it be true, that the globe would
r h aa invariable measure? Is not the whole
* In f th ' Minerva of New-York, of July last, the
editor of which is a gentleman of great literary talents,
» the fallowing remark : Mr. Jefferfon has the reputa- T
tion of many things not bis own. Hi. famous report 1
on weights and meaftires was founded on ideas taken p
iZI 77 °f th f S ° Cie,y ° f Arts °" d C
pubhflied in England many years i gß) and now in pof- E
session of the writer. The idea of making the vifira- ° f
tions of the pendulum the basis of weights and rnea- "
fures, was borrowed from that book, and the flusioaal
calculations in that report are the work ,f a pnfeffir *
°" r c ° li 'g e > »nd procured at the /fecial requeji of ?
Mr. Secretary Jeffi-rfon. q J b'
fRf port, p. B.—« «rder to avoid the uncertain- ja
M ° f ofcillation > " been hi
propoled by Mr. Ltptc, an ingenious artiftof Phiiadel-
WcaVrod. Jfth/uE" tu
* earth, composed as it is of various element;, r 'l
more expanse than iron, liable to be afftdtcd bv
changes of temperature ? Are not different fide, „r
the earth prefetlted to the fun, at different feafoiij
Jn of the year ? Is not the whole globe nearer tu the
, s fun in some parts of its orbit, than a: others? I 3
it not of course more susceptible of heat, and more
"j s affc.'&ed by attraction, both of which opeiate to „f.
, n fed the dimefions of our globe ?Is it likely that
earth, water and other elements are so equally di
ut ftributed throughout our globe, as that the
a of expanfion,and contradion, oeeafioned by chsi : i CJ
of feafans, cxa&ly counterbalance each other ? \V tJ
n it not knovrn to Mr. Jefferfon, that no two of the
•]| great circles of our globe are of equal circumfe r .
enee, and that this rendered his pufition, at lead
; n doubtful ? '"*
Mr. Jefferfon fays, " that no one circle of the
r globe is accessible to admeasurement in all its parts,
and that the trials to measure portions have been of
fueh various refolt, as to (hew that there i 9 no de.
i peadance on that operation for certainty," If thia
j be true, what were the data, upon which it was
a.Terted, that the whole circumference would furniih
an invariable meafurc ? The French philofopheri
® now fay the contrary, and they have lately actual*
e ly taken a fe&ion of the earth for their ltandard.
it Who is to decide between these do&ors,ot are they
alii aiming to puzzle plain people, by an affedatioa
II of accuracy, which is unattainable ?
Mr. Jefferfon's Jlandard, is " an uniform cylin
t diical rod of iron, of such length, as in latitude
.t +s°' in the level of the ocean, and in a cellar or o
£ ther place, the temperature of which does not vary
throughout the year, (hall perform
in froall and equal arcs, in one second ofjpcan time."
' The degree of 45 °is assumed, because it was
■ g propped by France, and because it was the north
e ern boundary of the United States He fays,
r " Let the completion of the 45 0 then give the
1 llandard for ear union, with the nope, he Jacetiouf
ly adds, that it may become a line of uhion with the
!' reft of the worldy' » pleasant conceit! It was
t kind in this profound philosopher to emerge from
the depth of his experimental ccllar.te enliven this
feientilic and abltrufe [abje£t with a fun. Our
philosophers " hope of a line of union with the reft
of the world" is already defeated; the Fiencf*
have, fiace his report, taken a fe&ion of a meridi
t onal line for their standard J. Their pendulum sot
' 45 0 is to vibrate 100,000 seconds, while Mr. Jcf
ferfon's is vibrating 86,400.
:• The French have outdone even Mr. Jefferfon in
( innovation : thus illusory has the expe&ation prov-
P ed that the hobbyhtrft of one phiUiopher will be
refpefted by another.
But why this attempt at absolute accuracy ? He
: admits that the pendulum of 45 0 differs from the
pendulum of 31 only 1-679 P art ot ' u whole
length, and that this difference is so minute tha: it
r might be neg!(Cfed, as insensible for (he common pur
pojes of life. There was lome reason for the at
tempt, beyond a display of learning, or there was
not ; if " pcrfed exaflneft" was desirable, why
were the following causes of uncertainty aad eiri/r
unnoticed ?
I ft. The experiment, he fays, mud be made is
the level of the ocean, to prevent that increnfent to
i-f .tic- nrr-th, azui ~ Cl~T.7?r.:TiQh cf~
B the length of the pendulum, which a higher fiiuation
would produee.—What is th e level of the ocean?
The tide rises in 45 about fifteen feet, and there are
' levels of the ocean, at high-water, low water, and
at all points between these extremes. " Perfect ex
e adnefs" requiiei that the exprcrffion, level of the
ocean, Should have been defined; this emission has
since been rectified in the bill, which paifed the
j houfeof reprefentativeslaft feflion ||.
idly- The expetiment, fays the report, mud be
made in * cellar or other place, the temperature < f
which does not vary thioughout the year.—Th;s
is important, or it is not : if important, why not
T define the temperature, that it might be ascertained
by a thermometer ? There are few or no natural.
caves or cellars, io which the temperature doe« not
) vary : various causes may affect the temperature ;
Mr. Jeffeifon himfelf admits this, in his Notes, p.
1 21, where he allows that " cbymical agents may
produee in fubterraneoos cavities, a factitious heat
. and these may, more or less, affect the tempera
ture in molt caves or cellars.
[The remainder of this Number To-Aforro<w.]
' % Notwithstanding this friendly hope, the French
® have treated our pbilofopher very cavalierly; for
1 in their late fyftera, they have altogether overlook
'| ed his learned labors. Even citizen Fauchet, in
his letter to the secretary of state, cemmunicatiag
the French standard of weights and measures, ap
pears not to have even heard of Mr. Jefferfon's
' report ; for he fays,- I think I have heard that the
' present government were engaging in the fam*
changes, and even 'waited the rtfuii of the opera
' tron made in France on this fubje<3, for the pur
-1 pose of commencing their reform." i his was several
' years after Mr. Jefferfon's report 1
|| That bill diredh, that " the experiment (hall
' be made in the latitude of Philadelphia, at any
', place between the rivers Delaware and Schuylkill,
: at a known height above the level of common high
water in the Delaware, and in a known tempera
ture of the atmosphere, according to Farenheit's
thermometer."
James Mufgrave,
GOLDSMITH S? JEWELLER,
No. 42. south Sccnnd Dff • "
HAS just received an aflertment qf Flated V/ar«
and Jewellery, Plated Tea and Coffee tlrns, "
, Pots, Tea ditto, Caflors from sto 8 bottles, Sugar and
Cream Batons, Bottle Stands, Baflcets, high CandJtfties,
' Brackets and Chamber ditto, Branches, Sconce;, a variety
of Silver and Plated Shoe La'chets, Spurs, &'• W V»
rantetl .of the bell plate and Gentlemen? Gold
Watch Chains, Seals and Keys ; .Necklaces, Neck Chain.,
' Eear Rirgs, Finger Rings, Lockets, Breast Pint, Stone
. Knee-Buckles, with many other a,ticlc3 jn the above
branches. " ' ~ii
He haa likewise received an extensive s! ortmentot
japann'd tea and coffee JJnis, pcr&aii, blue, brown,
black and gold.
All kinds of work inthe gold and silver line; minia
tures fct, and hair work executed as usual.
Js'i-vejnber 9. tu (■—"" ' bi
PHI LADELPHIA, d;
< L
WEDNESDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER »3, *79 5 - t r
•* » The Federalilt," No. VIII, will appear T.-
Morrow. p,
Thffliip Difpatfb, captain Morton, |«* rn ] "
at Newcattle from Havre de Grace, which (he left
the 17th Otfober. . ...i.
By tbi» veflel we have ParH papers to the 14 th
Otfober, which contain a variety of important in
• felWgence, of which we can at present give only
the heads, viz.
Peace had been concluded between France and
Naples ; the principal article of which appears to
be, the exclutToSof Englilh vessels from their ports, o
The army of the Rhine and Molelle had gained
a complete vi&ory over the Aullrians, in the neigh
bourhood of Buchan, on the 3d OA : the fiuits
of this victory were 2 colours, 6 cannon, 3 soo
prisoners, (of which 56 officers) already arrived at
head-quarters ; and 2000 more prisoners were on "
their journey.
The army of Italy had also been luccefsful, as
appears by the following dispatch.
Extraftof a letter from general Buooaparte, dated
I Oth Vendemaire. £
"We have taken the port of Pradella, that of *■
Cerere, and are now blockading the citadel of Mau
tua." • J
Previous to the above, general Buonaparte had 3
taken 1100, out of 1500 hundred who had made c
a sortie from Mantda.
The army of the Sambre and Meufe, under ge- _
neral Bournonville, remained behind the Sieg ; fe- '
veral flight actions had happened, but without any v
decilion.
The town of Neuwied, on the Rhine, bad been
declared neutral by both armies.
The archduke Charles, with J part of his army, 1
had marched to aireft. the progitts of general Mo- 1
reau, who continued v;£toriotis.
The approach of peace was eonfidered as very
uncertain when lh« Dispatch left France, although '
(an Englilh agent was hourly exuefled at Pat is.— 1
The papers fay, that lord Malmfaury was appoint- _
ad the negociator. 1
In our paper of to morrow, we fliall give tratif
lations from the Paris prints, containing the parti- '
culars of the above interesting intelligence.
Amer. D. Adv.
The arch&ike's army did not undertake any thing
from the 17th to the 27th September. Kleber at- 1
' tacked and defeated the Aullrians during that time,
in several paitial engagements. On the 29th, the '
archduke attacked the famous Tfite de Poßt neat '
Neuwied, on the right bank o£ the Rhine ; but '
was repulsed with great loss. On the 30th Sep- '
te nber, the archduke left the Lower /Rhine and
the Mein with 1500® men, in order to prevent be
ing surrounded by Moreau—He left the command '
of the remnant of his powerful army to general
Werneck.
The official accounts from the army of the Sam- 1
bre and M«ufe do not reach further than the 29th '
Swtiiwlw. when ihr divifiT-a of . H-n-dv.—Lj&nm; i
• and Championet ptnfucd three Aullrian colum s '
beyond the river Selz. Boiirnonville had taken the '
command in chief of the army, and there was every 1
.piobability that this army would soon drive the '
. Auftrians from the Lahn and the Mcin. (Aurora.)
COMMUNICATIONS.
"It is with peculiar fatisfaftion (fays a correfpon- 1
'dent) that the friends of our country' and that
greafand good man, the Vice Prelident of the
nited States, observe that several editions of his 1
valuahle woik, " the Defence of the American
- Conftitujions,'' a»e about being publilhed. The En
glish editions, of which there have been two or
three, besides several of the (jtll volume in this
.country, are all fold ; and the recent inveltigation
. of its principles, has excited a very general curiosi
ty to read the work The pufclilhers, one in Phi
ladelphia, the other in Baltimore, willl doubtless
fii.d it a i;ood {peculation. A French edition of
this work has been publilhed in Paris, and all the
' "'wotld is informed low much i: has contributed to
the eftab'ilhment of just republican principles of go
vernment in 1 hot country. If the French should fi
nally etfablifh a free republic, it will be awing to
their adheiing to the maxims and principles adopt,
ed from that work. In this country, those princi
ples will become the pnlitical creed cf the free ci
tizens of our independent republic. Experience,
the great teacher ir every hour appreciating their
truth, and be?ring teftimor.y to their solidity. The
work can scarcely be tead unprejudicedly, without
making c< nverts to its doctrines ; and in propoition
* ' *as the expand their influence, and take root in the
American mind, in the fame proportion our chancc
for political freedom, peace and permanent happi
ness, is increased and made certain.
Let every man tead and judi>e for himfelf—A
febjett that requires t he.laborious refearchej of un
rivalled genius tor fori y years, is not to be judged
of by- partial, mutilated quotations, commented
upon by politicians of a day, the ephemeral abet
ters of a profligate party.
BY THIS DAY's MAILS.
NEW-YORK, November 22.
£xt;a£t of a letter from the editor's correfpendent
at Bourdcaux, dated Odlober 4.
"A courier extra last night,
that the archduke his been defeated again by gene
talMoreau.
«' The luccefs of the army in Italy, under the
command of gential Buonaporte, null aftonilh all
Europe. Peace mall fellow on the continent very
soon. The report is, that Mantua has surrendered
with general Wuitnfei ?nd all his aomy. This news
has arrived tiom .Marlcillej, and it is laid the ac
counts are gone to Paris. We may net hear it coir-
Jirmed by the k«er« 111 less than five dayj."
The letter jrem which the preceding it at eztrsfl,
accompanied a file of the Eclair, printed at Paris j
but their latest date is Sept. 29, notfo late by nine
days as Paris accounts received by the Fame, from *
London. This cireumftance beiag taken into view,
tne authenticity of the accounts contained in the 5
letter is rendered suspicions ; the latter account, c
however, via Marseilles on its way to Paris, may 8
pofiibly be true, & perfeAly agrees with gen. Angc
rtau's expedition, exprefTed in his letter, publilhed ~
in yellerdaj's Argus, dated September 28. _
— 9 C
GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES MARINE LIST. _
PHILADELPHIA, November 23.
ARRIVED. Days 3
Ship Goddefsof Plenty, Nefbit, Port-au-Prince 18 L
Pennsylvania, York, Bordeaux 64
Louisa, Baudin, St. Thomas 23
Brig Twins, Keeler, St. Croix 23
Experiment, Hughes, Jacquemel 25
Union, Brown, Havanii# 32
Schr. Eagle, Denny, Port-au-Prince 30
Ruby, SIo 11m, Liverpool, N. S. 20
, Little Famy, N. Orleans 25
Sloop Diana, Pearfon, Alexandria 15
Capt. York, on 16th Sept. spoke brig Delight
from Boflon, 41 days out, bound to Bordeaux,
f Cordovan light, distant 4 leagues.
Capt. Cox informs, that the brig Richard and
James of Philadelphia, was seize ; at New-Orleaas,
| and h d failed for Nantz, commanded by. a Spanish
. captain. Tlwr fcliooner Good Intent, Parks, fail
ed 8 days before, for this port.
The (loop Jefferfon, Capt. York, from Curacoa,
is below—aifo the (hip Dispatch, 30 days from Ha
r vre-de-Grace.
, Charcestow, Nov. 8.
Yesterday arrived the sloop Nautilus, Palmer,
Falmouth, ti days ; ship Nancy, Whipple, Li
. veipobl, 74 days; (hip Lydia, Todd,
II days; khoorier Polly, Taber, Naflau, 21 days.
j The brigs Friendship, Clarke, and Betsey, Ab
, hot, left the tapes of Delaware, for this port,
. with Capt. Strong.
The brig Packet, Capt. Stroßg, jun. was to fail
in a few days after the Mai 13.
The brig Franklin, Capt. Lloyd Jones, was to
. fail for this port .about the middle of this month.
The schooner , Capt. 'Bradbury, of New-
York, and the schooner Friendlhip, Gardner, of
T Wilmington, were left at Naflau on the 17th of
. Odlober. J
On the 22d Capt. Taber spoke the barque Di
e ligence, Capt. Wilson, a transport ( from Jamaica,
t bound to England, had been out three months,.loft
t his marts about a month after they failed 4 the cap
tain was endeavoring to get into this port or Sa
j vannah, to refit.
On the 26th of O&ober, in the evening, the
j brig Mat-'garet, of Marblehead, Capt. Chi!ho!m,
j wa6 wrecked on St. Mary's bar ; (he was from Li
verpool, bound to this port, loaded withdry goods.
Owing to the exertions of some soldiers, who wert
, in a fort near where (he was Itranded, the captain
L ?nd ejoa-v .wereliuted. iv a jj«lc of wind
g when the brig lliuck ; forpe days after, tvfien the
c weather moderated, part of the cargo was got on
j fliore, much damaged. Thele goods, and the hull
e of the veflel, were fold at auction while captain
) I'aber, from whom we have this information, lay
there.
The schooner Nancy, of this part, from Africa,
bound to Savanna, was off our bar yesterday morn
' '" g r *
t The following further particulars of the lolTes
which happened at Naflau (N. P.) on the 3d day
s oi October last," were furnilhed us by the arrival 1 f
tke schooner Polly, captain Taber
_ The brig Governor Pinckney, of Wilmington,
r N. C. was wrecked in the gale.
; s In the latter part of the mor.th of September,
„ and early in Oitober, the crews of eight vessels,
i. which had been wrecked on the Bahama and Flo
ridakeys, were brought to Naflau. Oe of them
f s was the schooner Three Sillers of Providence (R.
,f 1) ; she upset on the Bahama bank; the captain
c and crew, after being 14 days at'fea in an open
0 boar, were picked up by a schooner and carried to
I Nassau.
i- Major Pierce Butler and family came paflengers
0 in the brig Maria, captain Strong, from Philadel
phia.
Arrivals at New-Tori.—November 22.
DAY S'
Ship America, Paxton, Cadiz 40
Apollo, Buftiwell, Amflerdam 56
e Hazen, , Cadiz 42
lt Brig Amelia, Williams, Jamaica 37
Polly, Brown, Havanna 22
e Maria, Bernard, (P. L.) Gaadaloupe
- C Ranger, Htilen, Bred 54
Sally, Hurt, Turks-Island 30
u Trance.
d
d The CommiiTary of the Executive Direflory to the
t _ Directory.
Milan, id Complementary Day, (Sept 18.)
The brave army of the Republic is on the point
of completing it| glory by finiftiing, by the cap.
ture of Mantua, the deftruftion of the reft of the
Austrian army in Italy. Wurmfer and his Etat
Major, who are prisoners in Mantua, with the
wiecks of his famous and boasted columns will soon
serve for new trophies to the valour and heioifm of
1 our warriors.
St. George's the tete-du-pont, and the Favou
s, rite, are in our power ; from thence we cannonade
e- the body of the garrison. We have lalttn a very
numerous artillery, several standards, 5000 prifo
le ners, 1000 of whom are cavalty, all equipped, and
i particularly Suo men of thefuperb regiment of the
y Emperors Cuirassiers.
(Signed) GARRAU.
•s PEACE.
P< let of I.ozere has made a motion in the coun
r- eil t i live hundred, far an application to the direc
tory to use their efforts to bring about a general
I, peaec The motion w ag rejedad.
/• . . /
; STOCKS.
i Sh ptr Ctot. r 7
Three per Cent. loft
J i\ per Cent. " 1 4/"
5* par Cent. - -- -- ,*"*
i Deferred Six per Cent. - la/l® to 13
■ BANK United State., - 19 to 10 per ;t.
—Psnnfylvania, - • - *■ 33 to 34 do.
I - ■ North \merica, - - - - 40 to 45 do.
Infurasce Cemp. N. A. fliares, - 35 per cent.
Pennfylv. a i-a to j per ct. be]«w par.
COURSK OF EXCHANGE.
On London, at 30 days, per £.100 fterl. par.
at 60 days, par to 16a 1-3
at 90 days, 16111621-3
Arailerdara, 60 days, per guilder, 40
90 day«, 43
—LJBUU ' 1 11 ■ 1 ' -
Lisr of Prizes and Blanks in the
Washington Lottery, Net, 11. T
38th Days Drawing, Nov. 13.
No. Dolt. No. Doh. No. Dolt. No. Dob.
459 i«738 33759 38330 10
628 «74 845 39796 ct
1097 965 a3°'9 40*63
1 634 12x60 34487 316 50
655 514 'o 618 53* L
658 799 706 41191 ,
701 10 .91a 10 35150 10 677
873 10 1301 alO 36058 10 968
' 3005 10 14765 394 43119
I 435 1540J 10 743 IO 451
1 695 920 9 J 3 10 43638
> ; 3030 10 16781 37067 956
1 , IXO 906 ia 324 is 44101
312 10 979 7 J 9 10 394 10 "
789 17087 89® 496
4071 248 991 10 613
260 505 10 28654 10 843 I ° t |
367 981 30201 953 £(
964 10 18035 740 45059 j
5346 10 198 820 10 153 10 o]
347 651 10 854 369 j,
, 6017 714 10 30333 10 46039
088 870 468 073
iog 19193 973 30 383
? 276 314 to 31337 10 477
346 a? 6 33304 47100 10
* 7051 413 313 176
, 536 447 10 630 598
786 754 IO 33537 48000
1 Bsi2 2C126 34374 ' 098
248 * 500 10 35454 l° 505 1
m 9 544 10 500 613 10 0
a|B 10 546 905 10 867 10 n
9(7 6c 910 36053' 874 a
9185 659 10 173 10 49081
if 659 21768 936 750 10
if 975 3205 a 37641 10
11311 20 735 ( 958 30
'> 3<;th Days DrawiHj, Nov. 14. r
ft }Tt. Doli. No. Doh. No* Doh. No. Dolt.
1 323 10067 10 33713 20 36871 lo
369 10 188 34386 37399
1561 10 959 10 806 10 906 50
570 "563 35477 38333
3317 12341 768 364 10
'» 4396 35 664. 27=06 10 721 5
'■ 493 911 670 10 39197 10
s. 5393 13554 10 759 >° 79* 30
1 584 10 14037 10 816 10 881
„ 944 10 576 10 28358 35 40180
d 631-3 634 613
7017 933 1® 7*5 10 843
L 323 171-12 980 43710 10
" 699 147 10 29330 45479 10
'I 797 10 408 958 30 46694 10
n 816 !fi}B 10 31983 737
y </86 18528 10 32619 886 '
937'50 19051 34045 47'49
a 8317 20533 186 420 i
' 421 30 540 20 • 249 lo 744
537 926 10 797 10 958
-9160 31949 35253 10 997 10
;s 186 53150 19 487 58053 10
y 537-*0 493 664 669 10
f 840 798 890 919
■» This Day Published,
By J. 0 R M R 0 D, No. 41, Cbefnutflreet
' (Price 20 cents)
s > AUTHENTIC
J " OFFICIAL NOTES
m ,
From the Mtntfler of the French Republic to the
j n Secretary of Stale of the United States,
: n With a Replication to the firfl; Note,
to By the Secretary of State.
Novemher 13. §4
,'j 8 To be Rented,
Jl complete Coach-Hiufe,
With ftablmg for four horses ; situated near the
University, with a passage into Market-street—apply,
is for terms, at No. 49, South Front-street.
|. 0 Nov. 23. $
\i Horses taken in,
!7 For the Winter Sea/on,
!2 And fed on clover hay at the Sublcribers place, 12
miles on the Brifiol Read, where good stabling is pro
vidtd, and great care will be taken of them.
jo WHliam Bell.
Nor. 23. mwfawmtbtf.
In the Press,
[j. And fpcedily will be publiihed,
(By WILLIAM COBBETT, opposite ChriftyChurch)
The Gros Moufqueton Diplomatique :
nt , OR,
p. Diplomatic Blunderbuss:
he Containing Citizen Adet's Notes to the Secretary of
State, as also his Cockade Proclamation; with a prefa
By PETER PORCUPINE. Nov. 21 3 t
c t Philadelphia, November 1796.
0 ALL persons desirous to coutraA for furhifhing of
IX. Rations and Qu»rtei;-Mafters stores, for the
u- troops in Philadelphia or Fort-Mifflin, on Mud Ifiand,
df during the year 1797—are requeued to fend their pro
polals sealed, on or before the fir ft day of December
J next, to
» TENCH FR ANCIS, Purveyor;
' The component parts of the Rations, are
1 pound of Flour or Bread
I pound ot Beef or 3-4 of a pound of Pork
1-3 a gill of Rum, Brandy
or Whilkey
n _ 1 quart of Salt "J
3 quarts of Vinegar i, _ .
a pounds of Soap "! 10 Ration*
jl 1 pound «f Cii.aUs j'
Nov. 9
>V. , So -
Pantheon,
AND RICKETTS's AMPHITHEATRE,
For Equestrian and Stage Performances
Corner of Chefaut and Sixth-ilreets.
THIS EVENING, Wednefdtty, Nov. 43,
Will be presented,
A grand and manly display oF
HORSEMANSHIP,
idy the eqUestrian company.
A Ballet Dance, called.
, The TWO PHILOSOPHERS.
A Difli of all Sorts, or Every Man to his own Tavern,
a com.c song. By Mr. D'Jrang.
In the course of the entertainments, Mr. Chamber*
will ling the hunting song of " The Twins/if Li
tona." A comie song, by Miss Sully, (being her
second appearince in this c;ty.)
The whole to conclude with the grand poatornime ci
The DEATH of CAPTAIN COOK.
fpr Doors to be opeu at 6 o'clock ; performance to
commence at 7.
gy Box, 73. 6d.-«Pit, 3S. $d.
Tickets to he had of Mr. Ford, at the tieket office in
Chefnnt-ftreet, from ten to three o'clork each dav.
0 s Silver Tickets, to admit for the fenlon* to be had
by applying to Mr. P icketts at the Pantheon, or at Od
lers's Hotel. - '
£jr Days of Performance to be Monday, Wednes
day, Thursday and Saturday.
Any Pi;rson
Who is well acquainted, with the River
MISSIS I P P I,
And will give Dire&ions for fa'.li ig into the fame,
that can be depended on, (lull be fceneroiifljr reward,
ed for his information, pr vided he will .'eave the
directions with Mr. John Fentfo, printer, Philadelphia,
or Edmund M. Blunt, Newburyport.
November 3. lawsm
Sheridan's Dictionary,
THE SIXTH EDITION,
Is this Day Publiftied,
Br W. TOUNG, MILLS iff SO N,
'Corner of Second and Chefnut ftrcets,
Tn one large ivo. -volume, price 3 dollars.
A COMPLETE DICTIONARY of the ENGLISH
LANGUAGE, both with regard to found and meaning,
one main objeil of which is to eftabliih a plain and per
manent Standard of Pronunciation. Te which is prefixed,
a Profodial Grammar.
Br THOMAS SHtRIDAN, A■ M.
October 1%.
THI§ DAT IS PUBLISHED,
By Benjamin Davies,
No. 68, High-Jlreet•
The American Repoiitory of ufeful
information, for 1797.
CONTAINING,
A Calendar for the year
A complete Register of the Executive, Legislative,
and Judic ; ary Officers of the General Government.
A Lift of the Military Forces of the United States.
Poft-Office Eftablilhment—times of receiving and
closing the Mails at Philadelphia.
The port road# asd towns, and their diflances
Times of holding the Supreme, Cireait and X)iftri4l
Courts.
A table of Impost duties, alphabetically arranged.
A lift of the custom-house officers and their tees.
Rules for reducing the currencies of the several
dates into one another, and all of them into the mo*
ney ef the United States.
Ufeful tables of the value of pounds, (hillings and
pence, in dollars and cents.
A register of the officers ef the civil government o£
Pennsylvania.
A gardiner's calendar for Pennsylvania.
And a great variety of other articles of ufeful informa
tion. Embellifted with twelve elegant vignettes, an en
graved title-page and frontispiece,—making together, a
handsome, as well as very ufeful, little pocket companion.
Ocftober2o. lawtf
No. I >3. _
' Diflrift of Pennsylvania, to iv t.
BE it renumbered, that on the twenty fourth day of
September, in the twtnty-firft year of the independence
of the United States of America, William Cobbett of
the said diftri<st hath deposited in this office the Title t>f
'f a Book, the right whereof he slaims as proprietor, in
the words following, to wit.
" The Political Censor, or Review of the mod intt
" reding political occurrences relative to the Uniti elites
"of America—By Peter Porcupine" -In conformity to
the Ait of the Congrefa of the United States intituled
11 An A& tor the encouragement of learning by feckiing
the Copies of Maps, Chaits»and Books to the authors
and propiietors of l'uch Copies, duri g the times therein
e mentioned." SAMUEL CALDWELL, Clerk
Ditlriit Pcnntylvjnia
No. 154.
Dijlrift of Pennsylvania, to •wit :
f T> E it remerc ered tha. on ihe 26th dayof Sep
< seal > D temb r,in the wenty-firft ycArofthe Inde-
C.W j pendence of the United atates of America, A
braham rSradley, junior «t the laid Diilrtft,hath deposited
in ihis office, the title of a Map, the right whereof, he
claims as 'uthoi in the words followi g to wit.
" Map of the United States exhibiting, the si uations,
" connections & diflances of the'Poft-Offices, Stage-roads,
" Counties, Ports of Entry and Delivery for Foreijfn vef
" icls, and the principal rivers,
" By ABRAHAM BH iDLEY, jun."
In conformity to the A A of the Congress of the United
St; tes intituled " An ait for the encouragement of learn-
I ing by fecurmg the copies of maps, charts, and books ttj
. the authors and proprietors of inch copies daring ths
* times therein mentioned."'
Samuel Caldwell, Clerk,
DiftriS of Pennsylvania.
" The above map may be had of the author at the General
• Poft-Office, next door to the War-Office in Fifth-Street,
and at houL, No. 78, corner of Crown otrect and
. Brewers Alley between 4th and / th, and Vine and Cal
lowhill Sreets. Prices from 34t0 5 dellars each. accord
as ing to the manner in which they a.e finifhed ihe pro
le grefs (or arrivals and departures) of the Mail on the Main
J, Line may be had separate for 37 i ceents.
i- _Q<sfc. 3. !aw6w.
Mr. FR A N Ci S,
(Of the New 7heatre)
TAKES this opportunity of returning thanks to his
scholars and to the public. Mr. Francis intends*
on his return from to open a public aca
demy for dancing, upon a plan entirely new. He
flatters himfelf that his attention to his pupils hi
therto renders any promiies of conducing his future
fehemes on the molt liberal and ftri&efl terras, of pro
priety, totaHy unneceflary.
N. 3. Private tuition as usual.
3 ' ia .
» rx *
v* A ManuFa&orv FOR SALE.
A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE Mimifa&ory, fnuate fa
a convenient part of the city ; the works almoll new,
on an entirely original conftruftioß, and builcof the bed n
materials, and may be set to work immediately. Persons ''
wfyowifhto purchase, are requcfted to apply at No 273* —but
Sou l. Sccond Street. September 13. ttf tf or, th
Wm, Holdernesse, No. 76, m j
HIGH-STREET,
Has received by the iafe arrivals,
A Will ISeleded Assortment of
Silk Merccry, Linen Drapery, and
Haberdashery Goods,
Which he will fell, wholesale and retail, on the vcrj
low eft terms ; H
Anions]} <which art their
Some elegant 4-4 Inoy-S Chintzes and Cottons, new fion,
patterns _ P ir >
Ditto Furniture ditto ■N'
Ditto Dimity <v
Tamboured, Book, and Jaconet Muslins J'v
Ditto in Gold and Silver 5
Ditto Neckcloth'", very fine aflor
TiUntuas of the firft quality- V
Silk and Cotton Hosiery V
Umbrellas of the firft quality, aflorted T
trifh Linens, very fine, and Table Linens 0
Marseilles and Cotton Counterpanes f
Rofc Blankets aflorted-—&c. &c. >\
October 16. d Je - f
Samuel Richardet £
Respectfully informs the Gentlemen B
Merchant!, that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEE HOUSE in the A
city of Philadelphia:
The Subscription Room will be furaiihed with all the V
daily papers published in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos- A
ton, Baltimore, together with thole of the principal com
mercial citias of Europe—They will be regularly tiled 5
and none permitted to be taken away on any account. Lik
Tea, Coffee, S6upe9, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety f
of French Liquors; together with the usual refrefhments,
will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
the choictft of Wines, Spirit'Joua Liqnors, and the mpft
approved Malt Liquors from London and orher breweries.
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and earliest *
produflions of the Season.
Large and small Parties, or single Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at [j I
hoursmoft convenient to thtmfelves—a cold Collation is
regularly kept for conveniency, the Billof Fare to be had
,at the bar. „
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifhed, and 15t
the utmost attention paid to cleanliness, and evary other
requisite. ]
Samuel RicHARnEt will bchappyto receive, and me ,
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfell that nothing on his part lhallbe wanting to pre-
serve that patronage with which he has been fa diftinguiili
ingly honored. >
Philadelphia, April rg. mwf A 1
Treasury of the United States.
OTICE is hereby given to all peifons who are or , .
X\ may be Creditors of the United States, for any sums
of the E.ndrd Debt, or Stoch, faring a frafent interejt of fix r- j
4tr ttni&rl per annum. X
ift, That pursuant to an Act of Congress pasTed on the ag,
»Bth day of April, 1796, intitled an ail in addition to an c
aft, intituled " An aft making fuithcr provision tor the gr( .
support of public credit, and lor the redemption of the ,i V(
public debt," the said debt or ftoik will be reimbursed and as,
paid in manner following, to wit. " First, by dividends Ch
" to be made on the last days of March, June and Septem- tifu
" ber for theprefer.t year, and from the year one thousand ftoi
" seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year one thou- hoc
« sand eight hundred & eighteen inrlufive, at the rate of ner
" one and one half per centum upon the original capital. bci
" Secondly, by dividends to be made on the last day of
" December for the present year, and from the year one ln 6
" thoufaud seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year
*' one thousand eight hundred and leventeen inclusive, at '
" the rate of three ami one half per centum upon the ori
«• ginal capital; and by a dividend to be ma eon the last tw
«< day of December, in the year one thousand eight hun- Jm
'« dred and eighteen, of such sum, as will be then ade- f lt )
•• quate, according to the contrail, for the final redemp- thi
" tion of th said stock." fro
ad. All <iiftin£tion between payments on account of ya
IntereH and Pr'tatipal beir thus abolilhed by the em
ment of the permanent w' of reimbursement abovs de- m<
feribed, it has become necessary to vary acc»rdingly the
powers of attorney for receiving dividends; th. public
ereditors will therefore observe that the following form
iseftablilhedfor all powers of attorney which may be '*J
granted after the due promulgation ot this notice, viz.
KNOW ALL MEN Br THESE "RESENTS, that
/ »f
do malty conjlitutc and appoint s^ (
0f my true and lawful At'
try, fur miy and in my name, to receive the dividends ivh'ch are,
, jr Jbj.'l be payable according to la-i*, on thz (Ktrtf JdfCribing she
stock) Jtandinfr in my name in tie bods of (here def&ribmg»t})e
books of the 7'reafury or the Commiflioncf of Loans, a
where the stock is credited) from (here mfcrt the com- ol
B\encement and expiration ot time for which the power of cc
attorney is to continue) with power also an attorney or attor- a
nits under him > for that purpose to make andfubjiit-jte y andts do all W
tsujul (i&s requifttefor ejfcdling theprerr.ifes, hereby ratifying and hi
confirming all thai my said Attorney or hisfibjlitutc,fball lawful- a
Jy do, by virtue hereof. p<
In JViinefs hereof 1 have hereunto set my Hand and Seal the aj
day of in the \ear
Sealed and Delivered
in presence of %
jj£ rt KNOWthat on the Jay of
e/ore me pcrjonally came
' vithin named and acknowledged the above letter of attorney to be
his afi and deed. N
Jn Ujlimony whereof 1 have hereunto set my Han i *md>qffuc- £
id Seal the day and year lap ufortjuid. k
Given. my Hand at Philadelphia, this twen- F
tieth day of July 1796, pursuant to dire&ions C
from the Secretary of the Treasury. f<
SAMUEL MKKEDITH, b
Ireafurer of the United States.
JulyZH* w tS** tiy v
To be Sold, r
The Time of a smart, aQive Negro ]
Who has Eleven years to f'«t ve.
Inquire at "No. jB, South Front flrf et.
Qflober rB. ,1 • , *
The JtLlephant
/S RETURNED FROM BALTIMORE.
THE public are refpeftfully informed, that
this animal is to be ken every day, from 8
o'clock in the morning till fun down, in Market
. street, No. ie6, south fide, between Third and
Fourth-ftitets.
Admittance a quarter of a dollar, that every ci
tizen may fee him.
(j3* At the requelt of many persons it will be
exhibited on evenings from five to tight o'clock,
at half a dollar each.—The room will be well
lighted.
November 7. d 1
A Short Delay
! In Ibe Drawing of the Canal L.6tlery r j
{ In WafhiPgton city, har. keen unavoidably nccalit'ieil j t> t
s by the nnforefcen intervention of Mr. Blodg«t s Lottery l'obi
—but as the major pait M the tickets are now difpofid cle a
of, this is to inform the-public that the drawing of the Ca- Co rr
" nal Lottery will certainly commence without i ail, on the |,oni
firfl Monday in January 1797, al 'd tliofe holding ——
aje hereby requested to fend a statement ot thofc told, anti
thole or hand.
NOTLY YOUNG, ~
DANIEL CARROLL, of Duddmgton, v
d CEORGE WALKER, ? na
THOMAS LAW, four
JAMES BARRY,
y W. M. DUNCANSON.
The Printers who gave our advertiftmenti a place in q
their pewfpapers, are reqHelle ( d to give this notice adrnii * -
w fion, as the rcmamift£tickets aie expected to be fourl above
our, and we wish adventurers to be tiaiely informed.
Jill.- Hav
Jufl Imported from London b 5 Liverpool, t<
Sarthen tt'AKt, in crates and liogffceadi, we i . .
aflorted A J
Wine Bottles in hampers
Window Glass of all (i7es n
Two cases of stationary
One clieft of yellow Jesuits Bark w
Two cases of Roll Arnctta . .01
A small confignmen't of Rose Blanket*, Flannels, Ba;- oc
_, zt't Broad cloths, Coatings, Plains &e. '
Paints of various colors pj'j
en Baftet fait in hoglheads.
•y Also on baud, Plai:
;he Madeira wine, very eld, in pipts, hogsheads and
quarter casks Whi
:he Holland gin in pipes, firft quality Lair
of- Anchors of different sizes
tr- A few trunks of ladies French fliocs r.fforted Cnrj
' Silk nankeen, &c.
Likewise an aflbrtment of Dutch goods, consisting ot MOl
!t V OfnaberrJ, ticlcleubergs, bed-tick, stripes, checks .I^"'
lt6 ' Morlaix linen, plattilas, ravens duck, Britannias, &c
. , And for lale by the pa> k?.ge only, by J o ''
3 fhomas C5 5 John Ketland,
ies. Walnut-llr'ret wharf.
ieft Nov. if. to^t! 7-S,
be Just Imported, and
al lu the fchoouer Lucy, Capt. Prows, from Madeira* Pull
1 is and to be fold by an^
iad ELLISTON & JOHN PE/.OT, «
md Best Londos particular Madeira Wine,
her Three year* old,
In pipes, hogflieads, and quarter casks, fit for im-
mediate ufe.—'l'hey have also for fate, _ ,
A few bags of Juniper Berries. nu j
Otf ober 28. w&'4W > h«,
ifll r O B E SOLD, wer
f A LEASE for fen*n years yfrqm the lstb Marth next } i* that knt
x capital and beautiful FAR Ad, called 1011
PROSPEC T-H ILL,
Cituitcd within one quarter ot a inile from the Brandywint )j e ;
,r^' 8 Mills, and hall a rtlile from the borough oi Wilmington. p ro ]
f' x THE dwelling house is built of llonc. two ft ones I'.jjh, rew
* genterW finiTufci, and containsfour handsome rooms en
t " e a floor, belides an entry, garrets, and convenient
'an cellars It is gcneislly thought 10 command the, moH a
thu profpeft of the Delaware, from ihe source of that j* '
the liver to the Capts. 1 his profpeft ia greatly einbt lliflied by
and a full view of avail bodv ot meadow, through whith the
:ndS Chfilliaiw and Brandywine creeks are feeo winding i ; beau
em- tifui meanders. Near the iioufe are a Kitchen, a (jjScioaa
and stone liable and hayloft a barn, a carriage house, milk
!qu- house, <Scc. and a well of as puie water as any on the comi
;of nent. The garden contains an acre and quarter ot land, a
;tal bounding with tn it, and particularly wuh peatb recs, of
.0f the very belt kind, brought from Maryland, and in full bear- r>
o . le ing There is, moreover, on thi plare, a young, apple - 1 -
orchard beginine to bear, and fcveral old trees that produce unt
Y elT abundantly, btfidcs cherry and oihei ornamental trees, in fuii
' . great numbers. The farm conlifts of near sixty acres of land, for
° r '" of good quality, and clear of incumbrancfs, except taxis, Jur
twenty of which arenow in excellent clover and timothy, da)
lun " and ten more will be ready tor lowing next (pring. A re- afti
(idcrice ot nearly 8 years has convinced the fubferiber that p J(
m P" the filiation is remarkably healthy. The great post road Rj.
from Philadelphia to the Southward runs within fevenly
t of yards of the house. In a word, the hearties and eonveni-
ence o! ihis fituati'on cannol be enumerated in an advertise- pj (
de- ment, and when examined, will probably command the at
the tention of any person who isdeliroys of living at one of the ~
iblic mod elegant country scats nn the continent. The piirehifer
orm may enter 011 the premiss licit fpnng, or peihaos, tfiis fall, ' 6
,u c it application be immediately mafic to Dotlnr NICHOL AS'
• W Y, in Philadelphia, to Di ftor WHARTON, on tie ™
' premi'es, or, in his absence, to Mr. GEO.<G£ I'KUt IT, ill
tbai vVilmingtoa. me
A quantity of excellent Hay, Grain in the ground some rif
Stoyk. &c. may be had by the pijrcnafer at the time of fsle. po
Nov. ,7. eodlf be
Twenty Guineas Reward. 10 ,
%t!ie RANAIvAY Ito'.n the fujifcribcr en the October,
sans, a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MQ,SES ; /i years
;om- old; about 5 feet 8 inches high ; had on a miscd green p 0
eros coat, with a green velvet cape jid oval yellow buttons;
attor- a striped veil ; a pair of dark spotted pantaloons, and
it alt whole boots much worn. It is probable he may change
g an.t his name and dress. He has been accuftomcd te tliiving
■wful- a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will be
paid for fccurmg him so that the fubferiber may get hun
al the again, and if brought hor.ie all reasonable charges paid by
Robins Cbamberjai/ie. so
Eaftor, Maryland, Nov. 10. 14 vimiawtf tr
Brokers Office, and at
,t»be COMMISSION STORE. 5!
No. 63 South Third street.opposite the national new Bank. r ;
CAMUEL M fR. UNCES ftiid JOHN VAN REED, t l
O have entered into co-partnerCiip, under the firm of \)
t-ven- HRAUNCES & VAN RKED,in the. buiiuefs of Biokers, f<
dtions Conveyancers and Commission merchants. Tfcey buy and tt
fell on commiflion every fpeeics if stock, notes of hand, r;
bills ojjexchange, honfes and lands, &c. Cl
1 tej. Money procured on deposits, &c. &c. all kinds c' 0
11J writings in the eonvtyancing line, done with neatness au<l
dispatch; accounts adjuftcd, and hotks fettled, in the
most correal manner. Conllant attendance will be given. "
r,J They solicit a share of the public favor; tbev vi deter
u ' mined to endeavour to defervc it. >
N. B. The utmofl secrecy obfervtd.
S Mi fftAUNCES,
? - -•jomrvjw'ntj®. - (
Philad. August 27, 1796. m&wtf f
, that James M'Alpin, Taylor, <
rom 8 3' South Fourthflreet,
arket- RETURNS h;s grateful acknowledgments to his
1 , Friends and the Public for their liberal encouragement,'
ana and begs leave ts solicit a continuance of their favors.
He has on hand an extensive assortment of the
ry c >- Miofl Fajhionable GOODS,
And of the j. ,k quality, suitable for the i'eafor.
nil be At this shop Gentlemen can be farnifced withthe best
'clock, material", and have them made up in the neatcft and most
e well F**h' ona M« manner, and on the Ihorteft notice. He will
1 thankfully receive any orders, and pay a prompt and
punctual attention, to ihcm.
November 10, lti
P AT E N T S II O T.
THE general confumptio* of Patent Shot hiring been Tj"
prevented by the high price it has hitherto been fold X
' st, the Proprietors take this method of informing the ce n
Public that tVy may in future be supplied with that arti
cle at the fame prices a 9 eomrtion Shot, by ordering their
Correfß'.nipanU to apply to Walkers, Maltbt <& Co.
London, Nov \vfm4w
| FOR SALE, |
About 1,600 acres of Land, z<
WELL situated, hying on and between Marsh *<*
and Beech Crocks, Mifflin county, Pennfylvama, in
four separate Patents. For term# ot sale apply to
Win. Blackburn,
No. 64, Ssuth S<*cond-flr«et. _
Oaober 31. mwftf 631
- Robert Smith & Co. IR^
No. 58, South Front-street,
I C '-
> Have received by the late arrival; f?om London, Liver- tor
pool, and Hull, and by the Ohio arrived at N. York to 1
' from Glasgow, ' n 1
A large & general afiortment of Goods, 111
Suitable for tbe Sea/on, eon/ifting ef cor
Duffle, Point and Rose Checks, in irnall packages ma
Blankets Oscaburjs and Brown Hoi- (ou
White, Red, and Yellow lands etl
Flannel Brown and white Roma
_ BocWng and ether Baizes , L firetings
Second and coarse Cloths Drillings and Diapers
Plain and mixed Caffimeres Calicoes and Chintzes
Plain, twilled, and ilrlped Jaconet and Book Muflijtt
Coatings Do. do. Tamboured
Plains, Kerfiays, and Half- Do. do. Handkerchiefs
1 thicks Printed linen *nd check do
White & spotted Swan&ins Romal and M„drafs .)o.
Lainet and fwanfdown vest Mufiin and Chintz Shawl*
stapes Bed X icks
Carpets and Carpeting Table Cloths
Calimaneocs and Durantj I,aces mil Edgings
{ Moreens and Taboreens Fafhionabl? Ribbons
Joans Spinning and Crapes Do. Hats and Bonnets
. Cablets and Wildbores Cotten & Worsted Hosiery
Bombazeens & Bombazets Gloves a: i Mitt#
Rattinets and Shalloons White & coloured Threads '
Plain, Genoa and printed Italian Sewing Silks
Velverets & Thicksets Ivory and Horn Comb* 'Y
7-8, 4-4, and 11-8 Cotton Tapes, &e. wl
They have on hand a large assortment of India Muftins eh;
and Calicoes, black and coloured Persians, Bandmne and If
l, l'ullicat Handkerchiefs, &c. and a quantity of Nutmegs no
and Macc.
Oaober 17. mwfim ful
RA N AW AT,
' About the ift of O&ober last, from the plantation of
Mr. Thomas F. Brooke, (in Prince George's county) to
1 whom he was hired, a NEGBO MAN, tamed C./ESAR;
33 years of age; about 5 feet 8 or 9 inches high; well
made ; of a yellowish complexion; a little pockmarked:
has, when spoken to, rath:r a down look, and submissive
" tone of voice: the clothes he had before he abfeonded »
were of plain, such as labouring N<= roes ufijally wear, 1*
,t ' but these he may probably exchange for ethers : be will
doubtlcfs endeavour to pass for a freeman, having, as 1
have been informed, afluined the name of Butler : I hive cu
reason to believe that he went to Baltimore, from whence an
" he is said to have gone to fume part of the Sufquehar.nah, Hi
probably with a view of getting to Pennfylvanii. A Sc
'» reward ef Thirty Dollars will be given to the person who Tt
n may take him and so secure him in some jail that 1 may Pa
i get him again, if taken in this state, and Fifty dollars if lc
j taken out of the state, and if brought home or secured ia N<
\ the jail of Prince George's county all reasonable charges H
* w>U be paid by ALEXR. COVINGTON. Br
Maryland, Prince George's County, 7 Sa
i 5 — — inA November. 1 >96. yitth*t&f4W til
.. ——— — ■" " ' — an
i- Treasury Department,
3 " September 28, 1796.
r "IS TOTICE is hereby given, that proposals will be re-
IN ceived at the office of the Secretary of the Treasury
ce until the expiration of the firft day of March next en
m suing, for the supply of all ration* which may he required
d, for the use of the United States, from the firft day of
:r\ June, 1797, to the thirty-firft day of May, 1798, both J
ly, days inclusive, at the places and within the diftridts hire
re- after mentioned, viz. At Ofwego; at Niagara; at
'at Pjcfque lQe j at Sandufky Lake, and on Sanduflcy A
ad River; at Detroit; at Michilimackinae; at Fort-Frank
"y l'ia; at Pittlburgh ; at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hamilton;
ru " at Fort St. Clair j at Fort-Jefferfon; at Grenville; at
' e " Picquc Town and Lofamies Store; at Fort Adams; at
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance ; at any place below Fort
f" Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Eric; at-Fort
j" Steuben ; at Fort Maflac ; at any place from Fort MalTae
to the south boundary of the United States on the river
t l e Miflifippi; at Fort Knox ;at Ouiatanou. _
1,, If fupplics (ball be required lor any posts or places not
mentioned in thit notice, all such supplies ihall be fur
me niihed at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the !
posts befqre recited, or as may be hereafter agreed on !
f between the United States and the Contra&or. |ee
The rations to be fuppliod are to confdl of the sol- j (Jl
lowing articles, viz.
,sr i One pound two ounces of bread or flour. -
:ar! Otic pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounce* of
ten pork or bacon.
13 5 Half a gill »f rum, brandy cr whiikey.
!n d One quart and half a pint of falt."\
Two quarts of Vinegar, f . , , ■ '
' B K Two pounds of Soap, > per hundred ration, M
One pound of Candles, j a
lun The rations are to be furntlbed ia such quantities, as that tc
'by there lhall at all times during the said term, be fullicient
fortbeconfumptionofthe troops at Michilimackinac, Dt
f troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, for the term of fix months in
—advance, and at cachofthe other posts, for the term of
at least three months in advance, in good and wholesome
pravifions.ifthefame stall be required. It is to be un-
Jerftood, that the Contractor is to be at the ex/ence artd
ink. rifle of ifTuirg the supplies to the troops at each pflU, and
, that all iolfe* fuftaiued by the depredations of an enemy, or
i of by means of the troops of the United States, fhail lie paid
ers, f or a t the price of the articl s captured or deilroyed, on
and the depofitioiw of two or more persons of creditable cha-
J nd, raiiers, and the certificate of a commiifioncd officer, as
certaining the circumftancas of the loss, and the atroount
*c' of tht aiticlcs for which compensation Iball be claimed
an<l OLIVER WOLCOTT,
the Secretary of the Treasury.
Loit Lait Evening, '
At Rickctts's Amphitheatr", (supposed to be taken by
some villain out of a gentleman's pocket) ,
'• A red Morocco-Leather POCKET-BOOK, 1
Containing about iSj dollars in banknote)); three notes
of hand of Rofs and Simfon, No. 304, 305 and 106, r?i- i
ted iathlaft August, payable 60 dafs after date, to the 1
order of Paul Siemen, together for 5 150 dollars; an order
of Mrs. Ann A acpherfon, from Paul Siemen, on Lach
. . lin Neal, Esq. at Port-au-Prince, for 100 dollars; be
' 114 , fides fcveral letter s and papers of no use but to the proprie
nen£ ' tor. The notes of hand and order are without endorfc
"* rnent. EIGHTY DOLLARS REWARD is offered to
any person who will discover and secure the thief, and
FOR i'Y DOLLARS for only bringing the above menti
oned notes and papers at No. 119, corner of Front and
: best Mulberry streets. d OC<. 11.
:T/ii ' elegant Bay Horse for Tale,
t and Enquire at George Green's Stables, in Pine-flreet,
between Fourth and Fifth-ftreeti.
k Nov. 18. JJiw
f Paterfon' Lottery.
FOR raising fix tho«find fix hundred attd
dollars and fifty cents, by a deduction of fifteen r.c*
cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a pm«. v \ t
l Prize of 5000 dollars is doliari »Cl
-1 1000 iooo
*°° 500
S »°° 10c®
10 lo ® so*
99 4950
zoa W 5000
2000 XO
5 Last drawn Humbert ef looa dollar* eaeh, j 00 »
233» Prize*.
4018 Blanks.
6350 Ticket* at Seven Dollars each, .- 9
by order of the Directors of the Society for eiliblifli
ing Utfeful Manul'a&urds, the fuperiotendauts oT the ? a r.
erion Lottery have requeited the Managers to offer the
foregoing Soheme to the public, and have dire&ed then,
to refun d the money to tfiufe perlons who bare purchafrj
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickcu
11 this Lottery. j
I'he lottery has a&ually commenced drawing, and wili
contiuue until finifi»*d. A lift of the Blanks and Pii2c«
may be seen at the office ot William Blackburn, No. 64
south Second llreet, who will give information where tick
ets rhay be procured.
Dated this 17th day of June, 1796.
J. N- CUM MING, ")
JACOB R. HARDENBF.RG, [ Mim™.
JONATHAN RHEA, )
STATE OF THE WHEEL.
1 Prize of 5000 ... J#o#
i jOOO ... 100*
X JCO - - 5#9
J ... I #oo
20 ICQ • • . 2000
9t> JO 4500
165 ij - . . 412J
The five Jaft drawn tickets, xooo euch, JOGO
Being all the valuable prizes, beside* a full propor
tion of the 10 dollars.
As the Lottery is considerably more than one third
drawn, the value <if the undrawn tickets it great
ly increaled, and it is worth the notice of ihofe
who hold tickets iil thaold scheme, that they etn ex
change their ticket* for th©(e in tie abothey ap
ly linn 1 and at a moderate advance ctnfiderinjj the
now real value of an undrawn ticker.
The tickets h?i»g nearly ail fold, the drawing ia
future will be ohonar, and the Lottery soon finiiijed.
November 12. mws
Imported in the late arrivals,
And to be Solid by
i JACOB PARKE,
No. 49, North fide of High-ftrect, Philadelphia,
A GENERAL ASSOkTMBNT Of
Ironmongery, Cutlery, Sadiery, &c.
1 AMOHOST WHICH Alt
SMJ THS* Anvils, Vices, and Files; Saw-mills Croft
: cut. Hand, and other Saws; Carpenters' Planes, Chifeli,
and other Tools; Carving ChifeU and Gouges; Locks,
, Hinges, Bolts and Latches; Nails, Sprigs/ Facts, ajld
1 Screws; Frying-pans; Smoothing-iron.; Shovels ard
> Tongs; Coffee M(Us; Candlesticks; Snuffers; Warning.
' Pans; Table Knives and Forks; Riding Whips; Ear
s' low Pen, and other Pocket Kniws; Raznrs ; SciiTarsf
1 Needles; Ivory and Horn Combs; belt ICirby Fifli
» Hooks; brass Cabinet Furniture; Waggon Boxes; Sheft
Br^als; plated and tin'd Bridie Bits and Stirrups; itto,
Sa die Nails; Girth and Straining Webbs; —with molt
kinds of Jror.motgcry, Cut Jury, Sadlery, Brafi War<*»
O&ober 24. mwf6w
Sales of India Goods.
[ The Cargo of theftiip Gmga«,.capt. Tingey, from ( CA
j cutta and Bengal,
f CONSISTING 0£
, A Large and general afl'ortment of Bengal and Madras
I~\. COTTON and SILK GOODS.
( iIJONG WHICH ARE
f A variety fine worked and plain Mujlins,
Doreas, tjfe. Also,
* A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
In boxes and bogs-#nd BLACK PEI'PIiR,
t For Sale by
t Willings Francis,
c No. 21 Pern Street.
r June t S
1 WANTED,
* As Cook, in a private family,
a 1 A YOUNG WOMAN who can prndu.-e good re
commendations of an unexceptionable character. En
- j cflitre of the Printer.
Nrtvember 17. >$tT v «
* VV alhington Canal LottGry,
NO. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has aatlwriwd
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fa thnufand,
" two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of catting
a Car.at through the City of Washington, froii th P»;
it tomacto the F.aftern Branch Harbour.
it The following is »he SCHEME of No. I.
c- Viz -I Prize of 10,000 dollars, »0,03®
in I ditto 10,000 10,000
»f 7 lad drawn 1
le Tickets, each J
t 6 ditto l,oco 6,1x0 * J
id 10 ditto 4 00 4>oo®
id ditto 100 2jOC©
or • 5J ditto JO 2,7.5®
id 5 7JO ditto II 69,008
To be railed for tit* Canal, i6,ajo
if. 5850 Prizes, *7S&°&
nt 11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17 roo Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
The Commiflionrre have tskert the Securities re
~ quired by the aforefaid a<ft for the pun&ual payment of
the prizes.
by - i'he drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon as thr Tickets are fold, of Which timely
notice will be given.
tes Such .prizes as are not demanded ir fix months-after th*
H- *ff?3W>ng is firfilhed, conftitK'J m Rliiwil>f.gJ-laf
he the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
i« (Signed) NOTLEY YOUNG,
:h DANIEL CARKOLL, i/D 1 '
*e- LEWIS DEBLOIS,
ie- GEORGE WALKER,
fe- Wm. M.DUNCANSON, 5
to THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of Wa(hingtOß, Feb. 11. 5
Uld , - Z3
PRINTED BY JOHN FENNft
:et> —No. 1 ig—
CH ESK¥T-STREET.
[Pric-c FigJ't Dollars per Annum.} jfe