#a?ette 0 States, 6- Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
MONDAT EVENING, OCTOBER io, 1796. [Toxm« X.
Number 127?."! ' 7 I 7"~ _ ' .
. On li r ednejday evening, the ntb injl. at J o'clock, a
the Coffee-Houfe,
Will be Sold by Public Au&ion, t
\ LARGE, elegant, ami wen fiHimed ttaee story I
A B,«.HOUSE ,
? !;z';
Zfe Tn
foil stories are each thirteen feet high; - t !" re ft^ e ""
mahogany door, in the house, / S™ m " ku'cht
with mahogany rails, and a good flcy-ligkt, the k ' tche "
h in the cellar, which is spacious and convenient, and
finhked with ail oven, stew holes and pantries, a
hall and large wine cellar adjoining the kitchen, in front
of which is an area in which is a pomp ; the yard is
vaulted. Communicating with the said building, is a
neat, three-story 3k,ck HOUSE, on the North fide of
Jnion street, containing so feet front by 20 feet deep,
the lower part of which is at present occupied as a con pt
jng-houfe, and the upper part divided into well finilhed
large chambers: this Koufe, may, at a fm ? U. expence, be
converted into a convenient dwelling ; the street door is ,
very handforr* , and the front and back have Venetian -
window-shutters. Adjoining the last mentioned house,
upon the lot belonging to the firft, are erefled
Kooms, &c. there are likewise very good Coach-Houses
and Stables, finifhed equal (or nearly so) with any in h
the city, on a lot, containing on Umon-ftreet 20 feet,
' and in depth 011 the Weft fide of the said alley 52 feet
there are good cellars under the whole ot the buildiug, .
and a Win-; Room over a part of the Stable, with a Hay .
I.oft over the remainder. Approved notes at 60 and 90 <
days will be taken for one half of the purchase money,
the remainder on like notes at five months, feeurity to be
iriven on the premises unfil the whole is discharged.
* LOOT MAN W Co. Auctioneers.
'6th o«r ' dt " th
At Public Au&ion,
At the Merchant's Gojfte-Heufe, on Wednejday evening
next, the 11th injl. at 6 o'clock, r
£ySh The very remarkable fact failing
vjhSCH Schooner Lively,
Built at Kensington in 1794, of Cedar
and Live Oak—6B feet 3 inches on
$s&l£&lSSiS(leck, 19 feet 6 inches beam,' 8 feet 4
inches hold, and carries between J and 600 barrels flour;
, fte wants nothing bu" a flying gib to fit her for sea, and
may be seen on the South fide of H.milton s wharf. ]
ALSO,
ita&eNr The Bri § Liberty,
At Stamper's wharf—burthe* 13 00 " :1 - = ■
flour, fails very fact, and is in order for t
Sa«iSKsSSfetf?fea—hav.ng been completely sheathed t
in June last by Mr. Nathaniel Hutton, of Southwark,
lad several new fails, one entire new cable, two new j
boats, and otberwife completely found. [
Approved indorsed notes, at 2, 3, and 4 months, will
be received in payment for both vcffels.
John Connelly, Auftirtieer.
Qftober Bth, 1796- dtS -
J ik> jj! x i'W 1 Snia r
rhe B "° MARY ' 1
Lying at Meflrs. Willing.* and Francis's 1
Wharf,burthen 10b barrels,built in Philadelphia in 1793,
of live oik and red cedar. —She is well found, and may ,
befent to sea at a finall expence. For terms apply to
Gurney £5° Smith.
o&. 6. dtf -
DISTRICT COURT, ) (T
Pennsylvania Difiridt. 5 '
IN pursuance of a writ to me direifted, from .the
Honowble Richard Peters, Esquire, Judge of-theDif
trid Court of the United States, in and for the Pennfyl
vaiiia Difiria, will be exposed ro Public Sale at the
Merchant's Coffee-Houfe, in the City of Philadelphia,
on Wednesday the 12th day of October inft. at 12 o clock
at noon, the SHIP called
TbS J OSEPHUS >
all and singular her tackle, appa'
- rel and furniture, as the fame now arej
the said ship having been condemned to pay mariners
wages, &c. WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marlhal.
Marflial's Office, 4th Oitober, 1796. d
•JP3ISL For Boston,
c^°oner y 0 h
[ A constant trader, Peter Coffin, master,
son? at Mr. Vanuxem's wherf, will fail in all next week.
For Freight orpaffage apply to the Captain onboard or to
Edward Stow, jun.
Who has received by the above vcflel,
Some excellent Pickled Salmon,
and a few quintals of the
Very belt kind of Dumb Fiih.
September 30. ,
"TH FOR LONDON,
The ca P ,ta ' CERES,
To fail loon: —For freight or passage
to DAVY, ROBERTS'& Co. or
John Vaughan,
September 10. Front-street.
For Cork,
MdryAnn,
Francis Stuart, master : is a ftreng, good
- ship, fails faft v and has good accon\mo
Nations for pafiengcrs. Great pare of her cargo being
ready, (he will fail in 10 days. For freight or passage
apply to the Captain on board v at Peter Knight's wharf,
Or to Stuart f Barr.
Sept. 29. dtf No. 100, South Front-street.
or Charter,
The Dafiiih Barque Beneventura
Samuel Stub, master,
good vessel, of about two hundred
tons burthen. JESSE & ROBERT WALN.
Sept. 17. dtf
if or Charter,
Ship Dominici Terry,
■ J acct Dc Hart > «>. excellent
vessel, of about 3000 barrels burthen.'
' y e .(F e ■ & Robert Wain.
Sep:ember «I. d
~ ~ *
Washington Lottery.
The Twenty-sixth & Twenty-seventh days' drawing of B]
the Wa&ifigton Lottery, No. 2, are received at the pHice
No. 234, Market-flreet, where tickets may be examined.
N. B. Information given where tickets in all the other
1 lotteries may be procured.
Oflobcr 7, 1796. j
Just Imported,
Tin Plates in boxes
Sheet and bar Lead
Shot —all sizes, paten * and common
Copper bottoms and fficcts
Englilh ffioes and boots in cases
Taunton Ale in casks of 10 doi. each
Baflcet Salt
Wool Ca,ds a
Gold Watches, •"
For Sale by
Simon Walker,
Oft. 7. nvwfim Dock-street
For Sale,
30 Hogsheads of choice New-England
Rum,
Landing from the schooner John, at Vanuxem's wharf.—
For terms apply to No. 71, North Water Street, at the
head of the wharf.
Oft.. 3- , -
The Cargo of the Polacre Independent, b J
CAPTAIN CATHCART, from Alicant and Lif- " «
bon, landing at the fubferibers wharf—
28 Pipes of Brandy
18 Bales of Spanish wool
3 do. of Annifeed
7000 Bushels of bed Lisbon Salt
80 Boxes of Lemons
For sale by WILLINGS & FRANCIS. J_
ALSO,
Seventy Hogsheads of prime JAMAICA SUGARS,
received by tile (hip Dominick Terry, Capt. De Hart,
from Kingston. •
Sept. 13. d
Thomas Ryerfon
HAS just received, by the ships, Molly and Hamburgh
Packet from Liverpool, and the Light Horse from
. Bristol, and is now opening for sale, at his store No.
177, Market-street, an exteniivc affortnient of
Ironmongery, Cutlery, Hardware
and Saddlery. che
The ship Caroline, now on htr passage from Liverpool
to Philadelphia, brings the remainder of his fall impor
tation.
. N. B. At the above store may be had, a few alegant
Mahogany Cases for Table Furniture; ajfo, a good af
lortment of the best kinds of Knives and Folks.
' Sept. 2 V d
Win. HOLDERNESSK, r
fist'
No. 76 High Street,
TTM : *Hr*tvrA. hvthp Intdft arrivals from Europe .and.
il the Kaft Indies a well fele2te3 affortmcnt of Silk
Mercery, Linen Drapery and Haberdalhci y P.nmV , nitbirh .
i he will fell, Wholesale and Retail, on the lowcft terms; ]\
AMONGST WHICH ARE,
' Some fine India muflinsemDioidered with gold and fflver
Superfine Book, Jaconet, and Mulmul ditto
Do do do do Handkereliicfs
Seme »xtra black taffeties.lutsftringsand colored Pcrfisns the
Bandano Handkerchiefs wi
Long and fliort Nankeens th:
Englilh Mantuas of the firft quality Aj
Damalk table linen and napkins, very fine
; Silk Hosiery, an elegant alTortmant
Thead and cotton do
Umbrellas—green silk, oil'd da. and do cloth
e French cambrics, very fine
, Jrifh Linens, do. &c. &c. June 14 §
Lottery and Broker's Office, " f
No. 64, South Second street. ' th
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 2, for sale—a 0 ' (
Check Book for examination—and piiies paid in
'i the late lottery. t0
s Check Books kept for examination and rejiftering, for
the City of Washington, No. 2, and Psttefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information where
tickets art to be had, an i. prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late Ne\fcr-
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottory, for
examination.. Cll
r, The fubferiber foKcits the application of the public
j. and his friends, who wish to purchase or fell Bank Stock, m
o Certificates, Bills of Exchange'or Notes, Houses, Lands,
&c. or to obtain money on deposit of property. to
Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, Augufl 18, 1796. mth
NOTES LOyl\
WHEREAS two notes drawn by Benjamin Hafkell eli
and George W. Kirkland, dated Boston, the 24th
February, 1796, payable to Joseph May, or order, in 18 fe
memthsV after ,date, one for One Thousand Dollars, the
other Fifteen Dollars, weie stolen with sortie other papers R
out of a trunk on the Lancaster road. It isrequeftcd that
any person to whom they may be offered for negociation, pi
; e will give thereof to the fubferiber.
jr GARRETT COTTRINGER.
Sept. 30. ttstf b!
Great is Tmvth and must prevail.
■ P
JUST PUBLISHED, tl
And for sale at No- 41 Chefnut-Jlrect hy J. ORMRO D, I
d An Apology for the Bible,
By R. Watson, d. d. f. s. s»
,'h Bishop of Landaff, <Jdc.
f, Being a complete refutation of Paine's iv
jige of Rea/on, tf
And the only answer to the Second Parti
August 30. dt h
tl
s Plans of the city of Philadelphia,
'Including the Northern Liberties and diftrift of •
id Southwark,
Publifhetl, and fold by t<
BENJAMIN DJVIES, F
No. 68, "High street, "
(Price one dollar.)
THIS plan is 26 inches square, and Iras been en
graved by one of the firft artists in the city, from a late
it and accurate survey. Purchasers are entitled to a nam
phlet vvith each plan, giving 44 forae account of the 1'
city, its population, trade, government,,dtc.
ta&ftf g
% ■ .. j ; ■ "
For Sale,
By J. WARDER, PARKER & Co. i
An Invoice of Cordage*
C nfUing of different sizes, from 12 inch cables down ]
to r pt of 2 inches, of different lengths*. Imported ih
the fh/> Swift, from Hull, and entitled to drawback. .
.. 1 ? dtf A
Sales of India Goods. F!n
The Cargo of thelhip Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cal- pj a
cutta and Bengal, Co,
CONSISTIfCG OF V £) It
Al.arge and general assortment of D-;ngal and Madras u
COJ'TON and SILK GOODS. j ap
AMONG WHICH ARE
A variety fine worked and plain Mujlins,
Doreas, Iffc. Also,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
lii boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER,
, For Sale by
Willings & Francis,
No. 21 Penn Street.
June 8 §
" NANKEENS, wi
Of the fir/} Quality, FOR SALE BY,
RD. and JAS. POTTCR. -
'For any quantity above Five Thousand Pieces, a li
beral credit will be given. R. & J- P.
September 13. T. tf
70,000 Pieces Nankeens,
Of the befl quality and on reasonable terms, Cai
FOR SALE BV Sh<
Philip Nicklin & Co.
dtf
Philip Nicklin & Co.
HAVE FOR SALS,
Souchoig i
Hyson Skin /
Young Hyson > FRESH TEAS
Hyson ind, \
Imperii!
Yellow Nankeens
China Ware, assorted in Boxes and Chests
Quickfitver
Bandanno Handkerchiefs of excellent quality in
chests
London Market MADEIRA WINE
London particular >in pipes, bogflieads, &
New-York Market ) quarter casks
Teneriffe Wine in pipes and hogsheads Si
Sugar Candy by the Box
Sail Canvas No. 1 a 8
Lead in sheets
3 Casks of Cutlery aborted
A few chests of Marichefter Goods, assorted thick- c
fcts, cords, striped Nankeens, &c.
3 Small packages of black sewing-silks
Sn:ik e-root. J
Nails assorted in calks
jKly'tfr" f;; / , mw&f
Wanted to Rent,
vi convefticul, well furnl/hed Bed Chamber,
With a £ood fire-place, in an airy and healthy part of
5 the city. The person wh© wants to rent such a chamber,
would havt; nopbjedlion to board, or brcakfaft only, with
the family occupying the house, as may be mofl agreeable.
Apply to the printer.
September 29. ' taw
Public Notice is Hereby Given,
TO the Freemen of the City and County of Phila
delphia, and the County of Delaware, that a gene
ral eletftian will be held on Tuesday the eleventh day
of October next. —The eledlion to be opened between
the hours of ten o'clock in the forenoon, and one fii
1 o'clock in tho afternoon. Tv
I When the freemen of the City of Philadelphia,-are D
to meet at the State-house in the fa'd city, to elefl °'
r Six Representatives for said city in General AfTera
e bl >'' . . 1
One Representative for said cify in the House of Re- ..
n prefentatives ef the United States. J
Twenty persons for members of the Common Coun
cil.
c Twelve persons for members of tbe Select Com
t mittee.
The Freemen of the City and County of Philadelphia
' to elect lr
One person for Governor ai
Two persons for Coroners te
One person for County Commiflioner
The Freemen of the County of Philadelphia, to
II eleit
h Six Representatives for Taid County in General Af
-8 fembly.
ic One Representative for said county in the House of
rs Repi*efentalives of the United States.
it The Freemea of the City and County of Philadel
n, phia, and County of Delaware, to eleift J
One Senator for the State
The Freemen of the townlhip of the Northern Li- 1
betties are to hold their ele£tion at the town-house in
Second Street continued, above Coats's Street.
The Freemen of the townships of Germantown,
Roxborough and Bristol, are to hold their eledtioii at
i the Union School House in Gernwntown.
), | Tire Freenieft »f the townships of Oxford, Byberry,
j Lower Dublin and Moreland,.ve to liold their eleiTtidn
at the house of the late John Barnfley in Bufsletown, in P
thetownfhip of Lower Dublin.
" And the Freemen of the Diftri<£l of Southwark, and
, thetownfhipstif Moyamenfing, Paffyunk, and King-
S feffing, are to hold their eleition at the State-Hotife in
the City of Philadelphia.
The Constables of each Ward, Diflri«£t, &c. are to
feoiti their election, in the different dillri<3s to choose
their infpecftors for the enfningyear, and to give their
— attendance at the time and refpetftive places.
Sept. 26. JOHN BAKER, Sheriff.
of — — ——;
* The Ele<s>ors of Chester county are requested 0
to meet at Hunt Downing's, in Eaft-Caln townlhip, on 1
Friday, the 7th day of OAober ensuing, to form a 3
ticket for thtf'eufuing eledlion.
September n, 1796. „
tl «
*** The Inhabitants of the county of Chester are t
C _ requested to meet at the house of Abraham Marshall, «
" in the townlhip of Weft-Bradferd, in said county, on t
the 7th day of Oflober next, in order te consult on a a
general ticket for the ensuing eieiHe*. r
September 14, 1796.
J"■. • • 1
University of Peiinfylvania,
OBobtr 5, 1796.
I. The Medical Lttlures will commence the firft Monday
in 'November. taw.;w
» India Tamboured Muslins.
h
A Jmali, handfeme afortment of Mu/lins,
•vtz.
Fine EjmVoifred" Malda and Santlpor* Mufliiis, valgus
patterns and prices.
Plain 6-4 jaconet.
Corded and cross-barred Muslin Shawls.
Ditto ditto 6- 4,and 4-4 Dorcas.
is Muslin Handkerchiefs, fine and cuirle.
Japan Muslins, and
A few puces extraordinary fine Long Cloths.
} Ton S.ilE BY
Thomds Tingey,
No. 121, South Third-itreet.
Sept 14. / tutf&f
FOR SALE.
PORT WINE, and
HOLLAND GIN, of the firft qualities in Pipes.
FRAUNCES and VAN REED. '
feroksrs and Commission Merchants, No. 63, So. 3d St.
Whe discount approved NOTES of hand,
N. B. An APPRENTICE Wanted.
September 14. mwf
TOR sale,
By N. and J. FRAZIER,
No. 95, S. Fro'nt-ftreet,
Prime Bolton Beef, in barrels.
Georgia Cotton.
Carolina Rice and Indigo.
Sherry and Teneriffe Wines, of excellent quality.
Ravens Duck.
Indio Ban dan no's.
— Sewing Silks, various colours.
CoiTahs and Gurrahs.
Sspt. if. _ tts4W._
For sale by the subscribers,
IN PENN-STREET,
130 quarter Chests frefti Hyson Tea;)
l©o ditto do. frelh Souchong Tea;
300 Boxes China, containing small tea feUs of 4*
pieces;
400 pieces Bandanoes.
Willings £s° Francis.
January 30 tt&f
in By Authority.
& Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBUWi No. 64,
South Seconds reel.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
For vaifing.Sixty Thousand Dollars, tably to an A& &L
the LcgiHature of Pennfylva/aia, puffed duung the Jail •
session, for bailding a Stone Bridge over the River
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, in the County of
Berk*.
1 Prize of 20 000 Dollars - «o,*coc
1 do. of 10,000 do. - - *0,000
3 do. «f 5.000 do. - 15,00 a
. 4 do. of 2,000 do. • - Bcoo
i?o do. of 1,000 do. • • 20,000
f 39 do. of 500 do. - - 19 £o*®
01 80 do. of 200 do. - 16,000
ei *> seo do. of .j 00 do. - 20,000
ith goo do. of $© do. - - 15,000
'* e * 1 do i of 500 do. to be paid the posses- >
for ©f the draw n no. >
5 do. of 3,000 do. to be p?id pofleffors )
— of the last drawn nos $ 1 5'' OCO
9,400 do. of 15 do. : - 141,000
, _ 10,054 Prizes 300,000
a " 10,046 Blanks — —
ie-
30,000 Tickets at Ten Dollars 300,000
-tn All Prizes shall be paid fifteen days after the drawing ij
me fiui (hed, upon the demand of a poffeflor of a fortunate
ticket, fubje& to a dcdu&ion of twenty per cent. The
ire Drawing wilj commence as.soon as the Tickets ate disposed
of, or perhaps fboner. of which notice will be given
m" Philip Miller, Peter Kerjhner> William Wit man +
Joseph H'tejler, James DiemerThomas Dundas f
c James May, John Otto, John Keirn, Daniel Graejf f
Jn _ Selajlian Miller, Commissioners.
Reading, May the $th, 17^6.
m " i ,
Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. a, to be had at the
hj a above office, where the earliest iniormation of the draw
ing of the Walhington No. 2, and Patterfon Lottery'*,
are received, and check books for examination and regis
tering are kept.
O&ober 7. » 2aw tf
to THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
By W. YOUNG, MILLS and Son,
Corner of Second and Che/nut Jlreet:,
of Price i a i-z cents,
The President's Address
lei-
To the People of the United States, 4
INTIMATING
Li- The resolution he has formed to decline being considered
in among the number of those out of whom a choice is to
be made, at the ensuing oledtlon of a Prefidcnt of the
vn, United States.
i at Sspt. 20. ws6
THIS j T AT PUBLISHED,
T' By J. ORMROP, No. 41, Ohefnut-ftreet,
*° 1! (Price ia 1-2 Cents)
The President's Address
To the People of the United States,
Announcing his intention of retiring from public life
" in at the expiration of the present constitutional term ef
presidency.
— September, 10, d
ofe . 1 — -
heir . . No> '*3-
DiJlriß of Pennsylvania, to w't.
RE it remembered, that on the twenty-fourth day jof
September, in the twenty-firft year of the independence
„ , of the United States of America, William Cobbett of
the fatd diftrift hath deposited in this office the Title of
'on a Book, the right whereof he claims as propri»tor, in
n a the words following, to wit.
" The Political Censor, or Review of the molt inte«
" refling political occurrences rektiva to the United State»
" of America—By Peter Porcupine I ' —ln conformity t®
ire the A& of the Cengrefs of the United States, intituled
nil, «An AS for the encouragement of learning by fecurine
,on the Copies of Maps, Chatts and Books to ths aiuho-4-
)U a and proprietors of fueh Copies, during the times therein —
mention«d." SAMUEL CALDWELL, Clerk.
.Diitriit PenofyWaiua.1' A test Foreign Intelligence,
•lr THE HOPK FROM LONDON.
FRANCE.
*RMY OF ITALY#
Hjaonajisi te, commander in cliief of the army of
Italy, to the executive directory.
, " Head-Quartert, Verona, 2id
Thermidor, Augud 8.
" Oil the morning of the jgth, citixens direc
tors, the enemy were polled in a line M/ith the Min
cio. Their wasfupported by their intrench
ed camp at Pefchiei a, and their left by Mantua;
their centre was at Valeggio. Angereju proceeded
to Bos\rhetta, and engaged in a bulk cannonade
with the enemy. In the mean time MLaffena march
ed t> P-fchiera, attacked the enemy in the intrench
ed camp, whiah they had formed,before that place,
WM)' 1 them, took rz pieces of cuvsnorv, and made
7CO prisoners. In cotjfequence of this adtion, the
eitmy were obliged to raise the siege of Pefc(uera,
and to quit the line of Mincio.
" On the 2oth, Angerean pafled the Mincio at
Prfchiera. The divtfion of general Serfurier march
ed for Verona, where it arrived at ten in the even
'n£' j u d the moment in which general Malfena
had refiinjed h? former pofitior.s, made 400prifou
ers, and taken 7 pieces of cannon. The rearguard
or the enemy were still in Verona—the gate 9 were
* {hut, and 'the bridges raised. The providator ef
the republic of Venice being summoned to epen
the gates, declared that he could not doit for two
hours. I ordeied them to be opened under thetf re
of cannon. This general Doumartin executed in
left than a quarter of an hour. We fowr.d a quan
tity of baggage in this place, and made some hun
dreds of prifonert.
" Thus we are re-edablifhed in all our former pa
ctions, and the enemy h ve fled into the Tyrol.—
Jhe reinforcements which you informed me were
coming from the army,of the Ocean, begirt to-ar
rive, and every thing here it in the mod faiiafa&ory
train.
" The Auflrian artjiy,whic!« for fix weeks threat
ened the invasion of Italy, has difappesred as a
dte3m ' and Italy, which it menaced, is now tran
quil. , ;
*' 7 lie people of Bologna, of Ferrara, but par
ticularly of Milan, hare, during,our retreat, dis
played the greatest courage, and the warmed attach
mem to liberty. At Milan, whole it waa reported
that the enemy was at Catfano, and that we were
routed, the people demanded arms, and the streets
and squares, and all tho public places, resounded
with the martial air of Alhns -enfant (it la patrie*
(Signed) "BUONAPARTE.'^
Buonaparte, commander in chief of tlae army of
Italy, tfc'the municipality of Milan.
When the army beat a retreat, and when the
partizans of Aultria and the enemies of liberty
iuppofed us to be ruined without refouree, and
when it was even impossible for you to conjecture
that this was a feint—it was then that you difplay
td the warmed attachment to France, and a love
©f freedom, a degree of zeal, and a'charadter by
which you have merited the eftecm of the army,
and have (jeferved the protedlion of the French re- •
puolic.
• livery day your people render themselves- more
and more deserving of the freedom which they en
joy ! Every day do they acquire their accumulating
energy, wbieh, doubtless, will, hereafter, and tljat,
Joon, blaze fotth with glory upou the theatre of
the world. Accept of the lively expressions of the
fatisraftion which I feel, and of the ardent prayers
which the French o t ffer up for your perpetual liber
• ty and happintls.
(Signed 1 ) BUONAPARTE.
BRUSSELS, Augud ij - >
the Austrian army under general Wartenfleben,
afier several bloody anions in which they have been
generally defeated, luive been forced by the repub
lican army of the Samhre and Mttife, to abandon
all their portions which they occupied in the en
virons of Bamberg, and to fall back upon the Da
nube.—All the Audrian artillery and baggage have
been to Ratifbon, from whence they will
be removed to Bohemii. Tire generals Frolich and i
. Flotz, who were polled at Iller, have fallen back j ]
towards the fiosiers of Tyrol J • fine, the suc
cess of the republican trmj maintains its invariable
*nd uninterrupted career. The Audrians are di
vided into three corps, forming upon the whole
15,000 men, with which they are to defend the
hereditary eltates of the emperor. i
As to the Princes of the Empire, they follow I
the general custom of making truces with the re
publicans- the elector t>f Saxony being now the
only one that hoMa out.
From t he neighbourhood of Mentz, it feemt that
the trenches u ill be opened in a few days. The
French lahour day and night with incredible acti
vity in the forming of jjaralL. lines and other works
necessary for the tedudtton of this bulwark of the
Empire.
Several hoflsges have la'ely been brought from
D?rm(lndt to Franckfort, on their way to' France,
1 his conoiid't is lathn unaccountable, since it is well
fciiown that Landgrave has frgned an armidice
with the republican gcnerilt.
PARIS, 30 Theimidor, Attgud 17.
The geuernls of Brigade Rigacnl and Bauvait,
- fimmanding ihe fonthern and wrflern departments
of St. Dorritigo, have transmitted to the dire&ory •
the demit of the firge of Leogane, attempted by
the Lngl.ih and Emijirantt, with 60 veflelt, aud
*tcco men difemharked.—This liege they were '
obliged to abandon «*n the third day, after having
loft a fptf, number of men, and-left behind them a
large tjoiw-ity of arms and nr.icunition ; they did |
not do tf; i«, however, without manifefling their
_ wanted cowardice and barbarity, on old men, wo.
ifn, both in their bouses, and in the
a ylun» to which they kad retreated ob the moun
tiwi,
' r '
L 2 Mefndor, Avjgufl tg.
The mod diltiuguifhed artists of this capital have
jud addrelTcd a petition to the dire£tory, entreating
that Italy may no longer be dt spoiled. They de
mand particularly thatJiefore any datues, pidtures,
See. are moved from Rome, a commilTion may be
appointed by I'lnflitut National to make a rtport o«
this important objedt.
The report that Count Cullaredf) has reached
this capital ;o negociate a peace for the Emperor is 1 "
confidently believed here.
Drouet eftaped from bil prison the dar feetisrc
i
:c LONDON, Aagnft 4.
n " The preterded Mauifedo, said to havr be'in
j l ' livered by theSpanilh ambaiTadur to lord Grem'ille,
a > which appeared, in our paper of yeftrrday, we ex-
traftrd from the Times, which was pnbhfhed at fa
late an h<air, as to prevent the poffibili'yot making
an inquiry into the truth of a circnmftance which
excited our alfbnifhment, in at great degree, from
" c > a knowledge of our own resources, which enabled
us to affirm, that no public occurrence of any im
portance, can fail to reach ub at least as soon qs any
" a » other paper..—But after the paprr was put t« press,
we made it our bulinefs to invedigatc the matter,
at and the result of the inveftigatian was such, as en
abled us to conitradidt, in the raoft positive manrer,
*" the datement contained in the Times, an<J copied
na from thenccinto * second edition of a mifurabls Ja
n" eobin print, and into all the evening papers. We
r< l immediately flopped the press taannounce this cir
re cumltanc* to the public ; but unfortunately, a great
or part of our impreflion had beenf taken off before
:n we had feceived the neceirary itiformstiotv ou the
fubj.a.
re The Times of this morning so far confeffes its
error as positively to contradidl what it yesterday as
viz. that such a memorial bad
11 been delivered to lord Grenville. But it' so far
perfifls in it*.datement, at to aflert that such com
•- plaintt as were dated to be contained in the p/eteud
- td memorial, have adlunlly been forwarded from
re the court of Madrid to the marquis de las Gafas.—
r- That the ainbafTador,. however, fhouti have con
y cealed these complaints from bit majedjr's miniflert,,
and communicated them to the condiito. of the
t- Times, is a frft that will not easily obtain credit
3 with the public.
»- We have not a donbt but that hit Majedy r t Mi
niders will do everything in their power, confident'
r - ;y witb the honor and fafety of the country, to
conclude a speedy peace ; that they will not fuffer
>• any considerations of inferior moment to impede a
d ntgocia i-)ii j and that they will accede to, or even
« propose the mod moderate and eqsitable terms.—
s But from the fuccefstul intrigues of the French in
d the cabinets »f foreign powers, we have too much
reafbn to dread, that they will liden to no terms
but such at .-are wholly incompatible with the fafety
of the nation, with its commercial prosperity, with
1 its political independence. This fear arifet princi
pally from the afcctdancy which they havcatquired
' io the councils of Spain—an ascendancy which-, to.
? gether with hii probable consequences, we long
since announced to tfie public j thVujjTT by so doing
: we ineurred the animadversions anrf penferr cf our
" contemporaries.
c The conduift of the French government is per
f fedlly confident—as it hat been a grand ofcjedt with
» every party in France, since the fuhverfion of the
' monarchy, to annihilate the trade and and naval
power of Great-Britain. Both the partizans of
: Brifiot, and the follower! of Robespierre, agreed,
as may be proved from their writing* and their
! speeches, in the application of the Roman maxim,
> " Delenda eft Cartbaga" to this country,' and in
f the threat of planting the tri-coloured flag op the
; bankt of the Thames ; and 'the uniform conduct of
3 the government, finee the execution el thof: dema
' gogues, mod clearly demondrates, that thry are dill
influenced by the fame views, actuated by tire fame
principle, and bent on the attainment of the feme
ebjeft.
Should our fears be unhappily rea!ifed r and the
war be pretra&ed by our enemies, in the hopes of
> acquiring the meass of gratifying their own am
-1 bition, by accomplishing our deftruftioo, we rely
■ with full confidence on the spirit cf the nation,
I (which is not, thank Heaven, io grofuly d'egenc-at
• ed at to make us kiss the feet-gf our inveterate foe)
' to teach these dating republicant, who fetk to grsfp
: at universal cwpue, that their defigu* again (I this
| country, mil be as fruitlefs at they are unprincipled.
t ; Proceedings of the Diet of Rati/bon, to accelerate
a Peace between the Germanic empire, and the
- Fiench Republic.
Ratisbow, Augud 1.
: The progress of the French has induced the im
perial diet, fnddenly, to didiate a memorable advet '•
!of the trnpre for the acceleration ef peace. On the
/ 30th ult. an extraordinary fe'flion as council was )
- held, which was opened by the eledloral diredlory
s of Mentz, wit-ffHhe ftillowing intimation : i
" Several embassies having expressed a wiiltj that
t the present urgent concerns of tl.c war betaken in
e to consideration, agreeably to the rnflrudlions which 1
- they received ; and that ways and means be canfult- 1
s ed for putting a speedy end to this war, the direc
t tory of Menta wouid not be wanting to give an
opportunity for deliberation." ,
n All the envoys, without waiting any further in
■, flrudlioiisfiom their courts and condiments, W>t«L
II and almod every vote was for the acceleration of
e peace. The archducal, Austrian, and eledloral :
Bohemian vete, deviated, however, iu several re
fpeftsftom the other votes, and was to the follow
ing purport:
Vote »f the Emperor, tw Archiluke of duflria, and
8 j Elector of Bohcmiq.
y I " The present dilafters of the war, have chiefly
y arisen, because the well-meant admonitions of his
d : majtdy the Roman emperor, to make common and
e well-connedled preparations of defewee hi due sea.
g son, have not been foffioiently 'attended to { nor
a have' the molt recent conclnfa, after the firft fruit
d less overtute9 for peace, as yet been put iu forte ;
r all which has enabled the enemy to turn every fa'.
'• rorable incident to promote their progress, fu puit
e ed by tbeit numbers. A firm and sincere union of
1- all the datet to preserve the Germanic conftituuon, j
it therefore, the only ef&ctcnt remedy to bring ills J
» M
i t
enemy to more equitable fcntimrnts, and lo a ftmi
re l«r readinrfs to make peace ; and fr< jri that eoniti
!j» tutional concord alone, tlx atcof«jjliiluji-at of a
e- fa much desired, general, equitable and jufi peace,
j, | can be with confidence expedted. That his mrfjei
je ' ty the Romans emperor wilhcs nothing more than
ia to put a« end to the burthens of this heavy war,
hit majeily has already p.roved. His majelly's wif
■d dom merits lrkewife the mod confidence,
is r that no refruree of obtaining a suitable peace fiiall
be left untried, and.no favourable opportunity for
re it neglected."
The following adviee of the empire, refpefting
a speedy overture for pe.ice, was drawn up on the
30th ult. antl immediately sent to Vienna.
Advice to the Empire
f > " The present lituation of Germ my having bejn
*• taken into consideration, and formally debated upon,
so all the three colleges ol the empire have deemed
8 ?nd ref»lved :
h •' That the wish repeatedly manifXlcd of termt*
® nating the ruinous war, which is (till profeeuting,
; d by meaqsof an acceptable peace with Fiance, be
i- again laid before his imperial majjrfty, with the rood
y refpefitul confident* in hi» majesty's paternal care
6t sot the empire ; and that his rcnjefty be moll ur-
r > gently and seriously requested, agreeably to the ad
t- vice of the empire already given with regard to that
r > objedt, to accelerate h iir his wifdoni by those
d meant and overtures which arc the molt proper,
1* and jo realise the speedy ncgociation by adding the
* deputation of the empire in. the peace to be thus
r- eoncluded."
»t Befidei this advice of the empire-, it was alfore
e fol»ed to fend the envoys of Wurtemberg, Bam
'* berg, & Wsmftiurg, barons Seckendorff & Gross,
as. deputies to the French general*. They left this
s place on. Saturday night, the count de Bernftorff,
i» belonging to t|hc Prussian legation, having pieced
d ed them hither, at the requeit of the Prussian, Swe
"* dish, Danish, and Heiiian embaffiej. As far 33
1- we know, those two depnties arc charged t» obtain
I- of the French generals> neutrality and fafety of
» pafon and property, as well lor the diet of the em
- pire, its archives and offices, as for the imperial
- cith of R'atifbun, and its inhabitants.
'»• In the conference on Thursday tail, some envoy*
e declared, that if a neutrality could not be obtained,
t it woiild be befl to adjour« the diet. The majori
ty of the envoys would not however agree to this,
i- -but proposed other measure* of lecurrty, upon
> which they conferred with the principal imperial
0 comtniffion, as like wife with the city, whefe magif.
r t rates were eharged to iflue an ordur for all the
a French emigrant's to quit it.
1 Last Friday the eheit of operations of the army
- of the empire arrived here.
n The magazines of provi'Gons at this place are to
h be conveyed to Saltzburg, and the Emperor is to
» be requetted to spare this city from the paflag.of
y troops, and quartering them.
h Our expectations an: railed to the hiijheft pitch
1* refpedting the result of the million of the two de
d puties to the French generals. The alTurance of
Count Geortz, the envoy of Branderburgh, that
; the Prussian Flmhaffy ■.> P n .
I offices wilh the directory in favar of the Germanic
r UTet, has revived all our hopes
j LONDON, August iz.
e Ihe most important article of intelligence by
j the Paris paper of the 9th, winch came to hand
yelterday,. is the report of the French having con
cluded a treaty oflTenfive and defenfive with Spain.
; TW»i» g' vc " >0 'he I'Eclair, a paper not the firft
in point of authenticity, but wc think it neverthe
' 'ess probable. It appears to be the result of the
j fyflrm adopted by the French directory, ts deprive
f us of all our allies by granting, them easy terms of
_ .per.ee, and separate Great-Eritain from the reft of
1 Europe politically, as by her .inlular situation, fill
- " "aturally In a few wevks we have not the fmal-
M d6ubt that peace will be general.
General Championet hat taken en the Mein, 14
, new pieces of cannon, of different calibres, 12
f ' iovv 'tz< ; rs, half of them new ; and general Berna
. dotte has made prizes of 45 boats with oats and
. hay, valutd ai more than a million of livres.
Augti.T 13.
Very prefling ordeis have been sent to aIF the
! dock yards of the kingdom, for expediting the go
( vernrtrent worx as fall as pofiible, and every ship of
, war, under equipment, is to be completed as fad as
possible.
Airguil ij.
Two Hamburgh mEiJ6 hare arrived since our last.
The intelligence by tins mode of conveyance ift
. seldom new, but in the various articles in this day's
Telegraph, our readers will fnid ample con fir ma
tionmf the late proceedings of the armies, with
some additional particulars of the partial actions t
which have taken place. There fcemi to prevail a J
1 general dtliie of peace,'from which, notwithstand
ing the good faith and linccrity of our allies, it is
more than ptoLV le we ihall be txcluiAd.
A«»;uft 16.
The king of Prnffia. is said to be on his return
to Berlin* there to r.reet Mr. Hammond. His
majelly fct oiit from Caliel on the jth instant.
Augult 18.
The siege artillery has been conveyed from Lan
dau for the siege of Mentz.
The court of Lilbon have resolved to fend the
, marquis of Pombai as ambassador extraordinary to
London, to negociate with the Britifo ministry, for
for such efficacious affillance as may.secure Portu
gal against the attack of the French, or in cafe of
failure in that ohjeft, to convince us of the neccf
fity of their confnhing the fafety of Portugal by
I yielding to the propohtions which have been made T
by the French. Their own condition difqualifies a
them from, all active refiflance.
1 . Auguit 20. r
I We have this day laid before our readers some *
very impsrtaut (late papers. Thole refpefling
■ Sweden are particularly interrfting. The influence
of the empress »t Russia has prevailed in thecourt
I of Stockholm—and it would r«.pe»r that she is =
leading it into a war with France, for fbe purpose,
no dnubt, of exfeautting and weakening
r and to render it an easy prey to her ambition. ' 1
The following advice was received yefterdav at ,
• Lloj d's cofiic-boufe—.
f i
m i By a en'ter Arrive*? at firmcuth from 4 cruii t .
(ti- off Brett, wvlei.ru that aFicncd Iquadron, consist.
f a i"g of 11 li'l of the line, flipped cut ef Brest 0 n
ice, th« evening or Saturday lad.
jef, 'The Hague and' Amfkerdam papers pofuivtly as.
,an frrt that the Dutch fleet failed the 501 h ult. and
rar, yet the Briiifti fleet ha« been unable tor difcov« r i;
vis- This is ihe second mx third fleet from Holland that
ice, has defied the vigilance of our etuifers. The Srft
ball .intelligence that will peihap* be heard «f it, will
for be, that it i« fafe at Brelt.
'
,ng .
the Philadelphia,
XIbjJBAY EVENING, OCI OBKX xo, 179k
ELECTI ONT
j IT is a circumllance much .0 be regretted, that
a valuable part of out fellow-citizens, who are fin.
cere friends to good order and government, too ge»
neraliy negledt an important duty, the exercise of
£ * which, might fnfure themselves their country and
o j|. j po-fterity, the long enjoyment ef those inestimable
bleflingt, and the derclidion of which, may cccaft.
(]r on the mod ruinous confluences. Has not the
ac j justness of this position been verified at mofl of our
3at general ele&ions ? Many decline to vote, who ne
vertheless, are apt enough to find fault when impro
per characters are inverted with power. Let ua be
confident. Do we atdently wish tit prevent war
iu( a "' ts concomitant evils 1 Let us then deft
men into office who are lovera of peace. Are we
re- rsa "y dtfwous that our eountry should not become
the theatre of a«aichy ! Let u« then place the ad*
,s 3 miniftratian under the direction of men, who meiit
his our con fidence by their uniform attachment to go.
"Vfernmeut ; that government under which we enjoy'
cd- a decree of moral, political, and religious liberty
and happiness, fc-arcely to be equalled, and actually
unparellelled. It is true, that ail those who iolely
ain ° 1 ' the Roodirefs and power of omnipotence,
o £ can have little to fear ftfim the tumultuous Horma
m raf a turbulent world; but it is equally true, that
ial " 16 l,t y a " to ma ke a proper use of the
means given them to ward off impending danger.
iyj Sttppofc my house to be threatened by fire, »nd tbe
;d, mea,ls °f saving it wit Kin my power ; if 1 negledt
ri- raeans, and the flames coiifume it, am I not
is, i u '"y censurable i Am J not laying up for myfelf
011 a ftor« of. repentaneeasd felf reproach .' Were 11®.
ial re P ,ne at what I h»d thus voluntarily brought on
■if. fflyfclf, woold it not be the height of felly ? Nay?
j lc would it not be impiety.?
It is a notorious fa& that we have men among
Ry us who are extremely inimical to the exilting go.
vernment, and every petty art, which the cunning
to ? f man it capable of devifjng, is praflifed by them
t 0 * n ,he prosecution of their base designs. Should
0 f not these men be opposed i Andis it nr.t the indif.
penfible duty'of erery goVd citizen to counteract
ch features i Such as refnfe their aid may have
| e . m "eh to answer for.. What man would witliold hts
Q f afliflance to guard ibe Use or property of his neigh
hour I Shall we then fee the peace, the prosperity,.
»4_ and the bappinpfa nf |K- ~f r.Him !; 1 r —
j c zens, and f i-il.aj,# uur portemy, Wictangeied, with
out discovering equal zeal and alacrity in th«ii pie.
fervation ?
; t '" : fountain be-muddy, the current cannot be
pure. Ant} if bad mm <jet into office and good mm '
'X arc kept out, will not tad times succeed ? Those who
1 are qualified to yjte, but vfrfio from negleflinjr to
i- use that privilege,fuffer the wicked to get into office,
"• will have no rational ground of complaint, should
their jfov'frnors bscume tyrants and trample on their
C " rights; hut their fellow citizens may jultly reproach
1C l ! am ' for accessary to the mifchiefs and n ife
ries t ' ,al ma > - *'."» ljefal tfieir country. Come for
ward then on she day of elcrtion, and by exerting
0 your it) flue trie in favour of men of integrity, prove
,e . your attachment to ft ace, good order and rjd ro*
1| " vernment.
' The FRIENDLY COUNSELLOR.
At a numerous meeting on Saturday evening fait, at
* Dunwoody's tavern,, in which every ward of the city
d was represented, it was unanimously, agreed by the
gentlemen jjrefent to run the following ticket ; ,
Governor,
ie Thomas Mifflin. •-]
). Congress,
Edward Tilghmm.
Senator,
Nathaniel Newlin, (of Delaware Countv.)
AJJhmblj, , j
George Latimer,
I. Jacob Hiltzhtimer,
Laurence Seckel,
« Francis Gurney,
■ Robert Wain,
Joseph Sail.
~K T h V iCk cV th l a , hoVC cand ida<es must be written,
tnofe .or Seleil and Common Council men mast bt
a printed.
|. SeleS Council,
is John Connelly, John Miller, fa».
Caleb North, James Read,
John Bleakly, Francis Gurney,
Sam. Coates, Henry Pratt,
n Godfrey Haga, John Hallowell,
s isim. M. Fox. Thomas Cumpftoni
Common Council,
Michael Keppele, J ames S. Co 4,
rhomas A'Jibone, Gideon H. Wells,
James Vodd, Thomas Greaves,
Mathias Sadler, Conrad Gerhard,
Jonathan V\ . Condy, Kearny Wharton.
U <«""Te Penno. fc, Samuel Hodgdon, -
r Casper Morris, Benj Chew, jun.
I. Ldward PennmgtOß, Bowyer Brooks,
,f V\ alter Franklin, Thomas Parker.-\
Henry Drinker, jun.
VVe trust that the above tickets will meet the ap
e probation of our fellow-citizens, as fhey combine not
only wisdom of charafler, mo, Oration of sentiment,
and an attachrnent to the federal government, but are
gentle men who have a common interefl with us in
making wile laws in the federal and state gcu-ernmeßt
e and good regulations in the city police.
j Published by order of the me?tine\
c HOXXINGSWOHTH, Chairman.
DANIEL SMITH, Secretary.
VVafhington Lottery.
, Tl ; twenty.ftxth and twenty-foventh days ariwinj
are arrived .it the office He. 147, Chefcut-fireet.
riizes m the above Lottery are exchanged for tickets
1 warranted undrawn.
fmitwjAt a nuroerons meeting of citizens at Mr. Poor's
ScboolHoufe, on the 6th October, >' was una
a;;noufly agreed to support the following tickets at
ta* next general eleiflion :
Peter Stephen Du Ponceau in the chair.
Governor,
Thomas Mifflin.
Congress,
John Swanwick.
AJfetnbly•
John Steinmetz, Benjamin Say,
Maithew Lawler, lirael lfrael,
Jacob Lawerfwvler, Fergufon M'llwaine.
.A Senator,
John Pearfon, Delaware County.
Selefi Council.
* John Donlap, James Irwin,
Jackfnn, Thomas Leiper,
John Isaac Pennington,
Stephen Giraril, Conrad Hanfe,
\V,n. Van Phull, Mathew.Carey,
James Sarfliwood, Abraham Shoemaker.
Common Council,
Andrew Ouyer, Matthias Sadler,
Cafpan Morris, Benjamin Harbefon,
Antlrony Cu hbert,' IJetyamiri F. Bathe,
William Rithards, Elifha Gordon,
John Porter, William Ru!h,
Joseph North, John Purdon, §
John Letchworth, John Barker,
Jacob Bright, Benjamin Taylor,
Godfrey Gebler, Benjamin Brian,
Andrew Kennedy, James Traquair.
IVc arc happy in communicating to Sur readers the fol
lowing federal intelligence, from the Jlatc of Dela
ware, cmtaimd in jj letter from Wilmington, dated
the Bth injlant.
The Delaware (late chufes its governor by the
people, it alio chufes one representative to the fede
ral government by the people.
Lad year a governor was chosen and the federal
interefl prevailed by a majority of zto; thi* year
on chafing a reprefemative to eongrtfs, the majori
ty appeared in favour or a true federal man (James
A. Bayard) 50? j these fa&s Jhew the change that
is taking place in the minds of the citizens of this
state. The principles and men of '94 are going
fad behind the icene, (hey are yielding to reason and
found policy.
Two thirds of the house of reprefeatatives, and
two thirds of the senate of. this state are true and
fuhftantial federalifts that cannot waver ; then the
ele&ors of a President of the United States, for this
state (chosen by such men) will malt certainly be
true and avowed federalifts.
Eiedion for the fiate of Delaware, on Tucfday the
Oclvber, 1796.
NEW-CASTLE COUNTY.
Federal. Democratic.
J as. A. Bayard 404 Wm. Peery 446 1
KINT COUNTY. <
Jas. A. Bayard 987 Wm. Peery 841 <
SUSSEX COUNTY. * 1
Jas. A. Bayard 903 Wm. Peery 502 I
Federal votes 2294 Democratic votes 1793 '•
Majority favorable to the Fcde al ticket 50;. '
Mr. Fenno,
I have frnce the publication in the Aurora of the t
eighth of September, in which Mr. E. {
character is much traduced, bean in Annapolis, and c
Jiave enquired particularly whether Mr. 1
was (in the language ol the letter) paraded tlron ;h '
the llreets of Annapolis under a Itrong guard, for t
crimes against hia bleeding country, I was uniform '
ly told and particularly by a man who was a firm <
friend to the revolution, was well acquainted with <
Mr. Tilghman, and who lived there during the war,
that the llatement was an infamous talfhood.
The charge contained in the extract of the let- t
ter as above recited, is flatly denied. The writer •
of this will submit his name to the publiek, vhen- 1
ever the author of the extract shall come forward i
in support of the allegations, so inlidioufly offered
igaitiil Mr. Tilgbman. Such liberties taken with !
the charaiters of candidates for public offices, at i
w the period of aR approaching election, are very re
prehensible ; calumny and detra&ian fhotild ever be
despised, while candour and modest truth should
meet with the countenance of all good men and
FREE ELECTORS.
BY THIS DAY's MAIL.
BOSTON, October 5.
Attack on Newfoundland.
Caps. Gralet who arrived last Suuday.in 24 cays
from Newfoundland, informs, That a French fqua
«toon of 6 fliips of the line, and 3 frigates, after
appearing off St. John's, demanding the furrendtr of
tl at town from Sir J. Wallace, who commands
there, and being refufed, had landed .a number of
men at Ball's Bay, a small hamlet, about 30 miles
from' St. John's, and burned a number of fiftier
men's hovels. At which olace they were when
our informant failed. St. 'John's is protested by
two forts—and Wallace's fquadrofl, conlifts of a 50
gan (hip, 3 frigates and 2 smaller veflels—lt is
therefore probable if they attack that town they '
will be opposed.
T he Britilh frigate La Raifort is arrived at Ha
lifax, whe>e a fullaccount of her late action is gi- '
vsir. Capt. Beiesford has been highly compliment
eJ for his conduct on the occasion.
1 i'e Elizabeth, one of Capt. Barney's squadron,
is arrived at Halifax. She is said in their papers
to mount 40 guns.
Col. Green, is appointed lieutenant Governor of 1
St. Vincent's. 1
NEW-YORK, O£tober 8.
We learn from Biif'ol., that Mr. Vandeihorft, 1
the- American tonful at that port, has received an '
official letter, {fating that the bey of Tukis has de- 1
livered up the Eliaa schooner, and a!f<> that the 1
American veflels have now nothing to apprehend
frujn tl}e power in the Mediterranean. '
I
LONDON, August 22. t
• We received this morning, by eiprefs, a great i
number of foreign papers, including the Paris jour- t
"alii pt the 17th, ißih and 19th intt. ;
s The attack wm begun by the Auftrians, oh the I
29th ult. who, -33 Buonaparje acknowledges, were j
! victorious for the firft three days. But we have |
more accurate accounts djan those of the French
general, of the movements of the forces under ge 1
Herat Wormfer, contained in a letter from thru ge- i
neral ly'mfeif, the contents of which were forward-*'
ed'to government from Vienna, by fir Morton E- 1
den, whose dispatches were received on Saturday. I
This letter is liatcd from Valeggio, on the 2d 1
inft. at which time the Auftriai#, who had previ- ;
oufly compelled the French to raise the Regs of
Mantua, and to retreat beyond the Po, were pro
ceeding to cross the Mincio, in order to j<_in gene 1
ral who wis polled at Brescia, and I
then to pg(h forward to Milan. General Metza- 1
roshad received orders to cross the Po, at Borgp
forte, whilr general Lauet was to repair to Mantua, ;
to give the neccflary for repairing the (
fortifications, and, at the fame time to make pre* 1
parations for besieging the important fortrefi »f I
Alexandria and Tor tona. I
The French hid left before Mant*a oni hun- |
dred and forty pieces of cannnn, and a vast quan
tity of ammvinition. Their loss ia the adtions ,
which preceded their retreat, was very eonfidera
ble, and they pafied the river Po at Borgo-forte
and San Benedotto, in the greatest confufion.
The loss of tbe Auftrians in the different aftioos
is stated to amount to 6000 men killed and wqund
- ed, from 12 to 15,000 prisoners, and 70 field
. pieces. This statement is probably exaggerated.
{ The loss of the French, on which, as usual, they
are totally fileut, must have been very considerable.
: The Paris papers of the 18th and 19th, contain
another Jetter from Buonaparte, dated from his
head-quarters at Verona, on the Bth of Augtifl.
1 By these it appears, that notwithstanding tht total
r defeat which the Auftriaiu, in his preceding let
. tcrs, were Ifated to have fuflained, they still raain
-3 taised their polition in the lines of the Mincio,
t and their commu'iica'ion with the town of Man
a tua. From this pofitiun however they appear to
j have driven on the 6th and 7th inft. when the
1 French advanced to Verona, and resumed the posi
tion which they had occupied previous to the at
-1 tack of the Auftrians ; while the latter are said to
] have made good their retreat into the Tyrolife.
e These journals alfia contain some farther accounts
s from Germany. By a letter from Kleber (of jive
; sth of Augu(t) it appears that the French did
not take poiTefiion of the city of B imberg with
out opposition. A desperate aftiotj took place in
• the llreets of the town, which w.« maintained with
great obditiacy, on both fides, though tin; French
were ultimtitely victorious.
A letter from general Marceau, dated from Wif-
J baden, on the 3 lit ult. gives an imperfect account
of a sally made'by part of the garrison of Mentz,
on the 29th, which appears to have b«en attended
with some successes at the outset, though the Au
ftrians weire finally obliged to retreat.
On the Bth inft. the advanced polls of the French '
army extended beyond tbe river• Aich : and the '
Auftrians were expe&ed to make good their re- ;
- TUBC to "fttrrcfrtlnii g. —■-—
We are happy te fay, that there doesaiot appear ®
to be the smallest foundation fer the report which '
prevailed in the ciry on Friday, and mentioned in 1
our paper of Saturday, that a French fleet' frots *
Brest had actually put to sea. Certain t it i», that |
no account of any such event has been received at
the admiralty ; nor is it believed, by those who are '
moll competent to judge, that the French can fend f
any fleet to sea from the port of Brest. The ac
counts of the failing of the Dutch fleet from the
Texel, are'alfo supposed to be premature; 1
All the Dutch prifee Ealt-India fhipa are purchased 1
to be employed as ftwrelhips in government service. 1
One of the largest is equipping in the river to car
ry over a breed of live cattle of various kinds to the '
island of Corsica. ' '
The members of the Irish house of commons
hrn-e already begun to canvass their conllituents,
in the expectation of a dissolution of Parliament. 1
I
PARIS, August 10. 1
1 A meflage was yellerday sent by the executive 1
directory to the council of five hundred, to inform
tf;em that Drouet has escaped from the prison of
the abbey ; that his evasion appeared to be the ef
fett of corruption ; that an invertigation had been
fct on foot for the dilcovery of his accomplices }
Si <i that f#om what they had already learnt, it did
not appear that the armed force had taken any part
in that event.
They write from Peterfburgh, that the Ruffian
army, after the capture of Dcrbent, reduced four
provinces of Persia, and took Dofleffioii of Beabe
rabafli, a large and rich commercial city in the Per
sian gulph, where they took an im'menfe booty.
The following is from the " SUN," a London Pa
ps of Augujl 12. .
From the London Gazette—August 20,
Admiralty Office, Augujl 20, 1796.
A letter, of which'the following is a copy, has
been transmitted by Admiral Sir John Jervis, K. B. *
Commander in Chief of his Majeity's (hips and vef
felij in the Meditteranean, to Evan Nepean, Efq-
Secretary of the Admiralty, in his letter, dated on
board his Majesty's ship Vi&orjr, off Toulon, July
18, 1796.
Captain, Porto Ftrrajo,
July, 10, 1796.
Sir,
I have the pleafureto inform you, that the treops
p under the command of Major Duncan, took pos
session of the forts and town of Porto Feirajo this
Bay at ten o'clock.
On my joining the eenvoy from Baflia yefteiday
t morning, Major Duncan having done me the favor
! to come on board, we concerted the moll proper me
thoc ror igeedily executing the viceroy's u;ftru£tions
to the major. t
I The troops were landed last night, about one
mile to the weftvvardof the town, under the direc
tion of captiin Stuart, of the Petterell, and the
Major marched close to the gate of
the weit fide j and at five o'clock this morning, sent
into thp governor, the Viceroy's letter, containing
the terms which would be granted to the town, and
g*ve him two hours for his arifwer. At half pafl
u
five I ciir.t on frier:-, wfier, we rereivrd a jreffage
from the Governor, delirii (} | one hour more t6 con
sult wish the piincipal inhabitants. We took this
opportunity to aflure tire Tuscan inhabitants, that o
they flvjuid receive no irjtsry whatever in their per- f
fors or property, 0
(j Having didered the jhips into the harbor to their
several iUtions before appointed, the major and my- e
felf determined, Htould the terms offered i>e reje&ed,
to inftaitly open the fire on the ships, and to storm
the place ofi every point f om the land and sea.
The hsrtnorty and the good feet- I
ween and navy employed on this occasion, a
will, i trflft, be a farther proof of what iray b6 ef
fe&ed by the hearty co operation of the two £tr
vices,
t cannot conclude without exprefling my ffitlift
approbation of the zeal a:id good conduit of every f
captain, offictr, and man in the squadron j and, alio r
that during the time 1 was neceffatily employed on
ftiore, that av firfi lieutenant, Edward Bifby, com- %
manded the fltup, a>.)d placed her cppofite to the (
grand gatrifon, within half*piftol (hot, and in such 1,
■ a manner as could not have failed, had we opened t
' ourSr<f, to havfe had the greatest effect. , »
I havcthe honor to be,
Sir, with great refpefV,
Your m>ft obedient and faithful servant. f
(Signed) HORATIO NELSON. I
Sir J jhn Jervis, K. B. n
N. B. The .lace mounted with one hundred j '
pieces of caanon, and garrifoued by four hundred j.
regulars, belides militia. ' 4
1 ™ ' """"" t
I GAItTTS OF THE UlflTEJ} STATES MARINE LIST. , l"
- t
I PHILADELPHIA, Oaober io. j
ARRIVED. Day,. e
, Snow Pol.'v, Reilly, Charlcftan .£
Schooner uabella Drifcel, Kingston 2i t
, Siltrs, Jackson, Frederickfburg 4 a
. Sloop M.ria, Kiugj New-York 4
Sail; and Betsey, Lyons, Cenae&icut 3
Mara, Marshall, do. 3
, The fho Eagle failed from Falmouth in'compa- e
ny with a Jeet of 300 fail of merchantmen, bound 1
1 to variousparts of the world.
I'he fhia Sedgely, Hodge, from Peterfburgj and
the Caroliie, Hilton, from Liverpool, are in the ri- n
ver. 0
A largi fleet of vefTcls, said to be npwards of 40 c
fail, were seen Handing in for the Ctpes, among P
them a fhp supposed to be the William Pent).
Arrived at the Fort. p.
Ship Golcen Age, Earlj Kingston, (J.) d
Eagle, Kearny, Falmouth, (Jt.) «
Schooler Dick, Trinidad
Savannah, September 20. "
Arrived the 14th n.ltant. schooner Two Bro a
thers, ciptain Courter, 51 days from Jamaica. —
on thijsoth ult. fell iri with the homeward-bound
English fleet, and on the 25th, there came on a very
" to " " n"' ; ■mi ,j -
hours f. during the gale, the Vigilant, a transport. f
ship, wis caik asvay on the Floiiday keys, and en
lirciy li/jt—rhe officers and crew came paffengeis
with captain Courtur. At the fame time saw ano
ther Ihip on shore, supposed to be the William and ''
Mary, who were in company with them the day \
before—She f >on went to pleceti, and the crew sup- a
posed to be loft. '
Sloop Cluriffa, captain. J«f. Congdon, of New- 1
York, w;k also cist away on the fame key. Cap- 0
tain Courter humanely affiited them in saving a part
of her cargo, which, together with the crew, he
took on boaid,.
A great number of the fleet are supposed to be
101 lon the Florida keys and Bahama islands, as
they were all in company when the gale came on.
Arrived on the 13th inftaut, ; captain
Bordman, 15 days from Cape Nichola Mole, who r
informs, that the news of the d«elaration of war
between England and Spain had arrived there In
cenfcquence of which, all Spatnfh vessels were im
mediately taken, made lawful prizes. '
THE PANTHEON,
And Rtcketts's Amphitheatre, I
For Equestrian and Stage performance*. Corner ef •
| Chefnut and Sixtli streets, will be apened on MON- '
DAY, o>?tober the 10th, with a
Brilliant Display of Scenery, s
1 AND ORNAMENTAL PAINTINGS, »
New lights, and a great variety of , c
SUPERB DECORATIONS.
Mr. RickbVts will endeavor to make the entertain
ments of each evening as agreeable as possible, being re
solved to use his belt exertions to render fatisfaAion to
h's friends and patrons.
0" The doors will open at 6 o'clock—Performance 1
Commences at f —Boxes 7s. 6d.—Pit 3s. 9<J.
Tickets to.be had at the ticket officc of the Pantheon, J
Snd at CKllers's hotel. 1
3 Evenings of Performance to be Monday, Wednef- j
iy, Thurfda/ and Saturday. i
• t 1
No 152. 1
Dijlrid of Pennsylvania, to ivit i '
Bli it remembered, that on the leyenteenth day of Sep- 1
tember, in the twenty- rft year oi the indepeßdence 1
of the United States of America, William Mitchell, of
the laid Jiffriifl, depofitcd ill this office the title of a book t
tlie rifiht whereof he claims as author, in the words fol
lowing-, to wit:
" A new and complete fyltcm of book-keeping, by an
s " improved method of double entry, adapted to retail, do
- " medic and foreign trade ; exhibiting a variety of tranf- 1
s " actions whicn usually occur in business. The whole
" comprised in three lets of books; the hit fct being a copy j
'• of theftcond, according to those systems most generally L
" in use, is given in order to exhibit, by a comparative
r " view, the advantages of Ihe system now laid down. To
- " which is added, a table of tUe duties payable on goods,
g u wares and merchandise imported i&to the' United States
" of America. The whole in dollars and cents.
„ " By William Mittfeeli."
In coaformity to the act of the Congress of the United r
States, intituled," An act for the encouragement of leanr
r ing, by securing the copies of maps, charts and books to 1
f the authors and proprietors of such copies, during the
, times therein mtntjoised." f
SAMUEL CALDWELL, elk, dift. c
J Pennsylvania. ii
N. 3 The above Book k now publilbed, and may be
1 had of the Beekfelltrs. QAober 5. , 'law4w
" ..
• y
A GOOD HOUSE,
FOR SALE,
THE fv.hfcriber, intent on moving to tlic country#,
offers for fule, the HOUSE in which he now- resides.—
(ts healthy and beautiful fit*Jit:on,njjpofite if# gardens
of Mr. Bingham, ticedi neither comment or eulogium.
PoflcCjon will be given on or before the 13th of the
enl'uisg month.
THOMAS TINOLY,
No.'iit» South 3d Street.
IJ'e %as alft for Sate,
A final! han3ft>me afiorttnant of work'd and p!ain
INDIA MUSLINS, which he Will dilpr»fe of raafcn^
ablyi d'tf. October 10.
To be fold by Auction,
A Country Seat ami adjoining Grass
Lots,
On the \\t'h Hay cf OS'jber, at I o o'clock, d. M.
THIS pleasant and c®mmo'li«li» House, is lit'tiatcd oL
a 40 ftet public lane, leading frtftn the Ridge or
Wiffahickon Road, between the third and fourth mii*
stone, aerofs ehe canal to a landing oil the river Schuylkill.
It is a two-story brrik House, wuit a large, new,, ilone
Kitchen adjoining: it contains two neat parlours, fori
bed-rooms, and a light dressing closet; over the kitchen
are tvve otter bed-rooms. In front and at the south end
is a new piazza, extending between eighty and ninety
feet, by nine and a half f«et wide: adjoining the Kitchen
is a Puiiip of excellent and never failing water, with a
(lied for wafting ; the whole under an 'agreeable {hade of
large trees. This Situation has been afcertalned to be
more than one hundred and fij » feet in lieighlh, above
the Tiver. At a Convenient diitance it a frame Ceach-
House and Stables, in good order. On the fouth-wcit
fide is an excellent Orchard,,containing about eight acres,
and upwards of oJie hundred and fifty apple and other
fruit trees of the belt kind. On the north-call fide i*t a
field of Clover an 4 Timothy, put in latl Sprinjf, with fc
1 l'pace fenced off for a Garden—the whole containing- b»-
tween seventeen and eighteen acres.
At the fame time and pb.ee will be fold, tha following
Lets, adjoining the premises and each other, viz.
Nos. 1, 2, r, 4 —Four Lots, each measuring in f»ont
cn the Wiffahickon road, about nine perches, by about
Cxty-oac pcrchcs deep, and about twelve perches wide at
the fowh-weft end, each Let containing nearly four
acres—Clover and Timothy put in )*ft year.
No» 5 —Fronting on the above-mentioned lane, con
taining upwards of four acres—Clover and TiDiothy
put in lad year.
Nos. 6, 7 —Also fronting the said forty few lane, and
each containing about seven and a half acres - r Clover and ,
Timothy put ill fact year. '
I No. B—Contains about sixteen acres, ill in Clover >
bounded by the said lane and another lane leading to Jofc
nathan Williams' house: it «an elegant fitiratien, com
manding a view of the neighboring stats on bath fides
of the river. 1 On this Lot is a very large Hay-Houfc»
capable of containing ione hundred and'fifty tons, with a.
pump and yard open to the fouih, calculated to stall-seed
cattle.
A Draft of the whole will be produced at the time of
sale, describing the contents of each Lot, and the con
ditions will then be-declarcd ; a fart wr/jr cf tic payment
will be required, on delivery.
N. B. The above-mentioned line now communicate*
with the path of the canal, which is a good road to tawnr
in all seasons.
For further particulars apply to EDWARD BONSALI#
and Co. in Dock-street.
RICHARD FOOTMAN, Au£ti»acer.
OA. 10-. dtl4.
Pcnnfylvar.ia Diftrift. J JJ'
NOTICE is hereby given, thai pilrfuint ro i writ
to me, directed from the honourable Richard Peters*
Esq. Judge of the Lliltri.fi Court of the United Staves#
in and for the Pcnnfylvania Diltn£, will be Iblcl at
public sale, at the Custom-House ftorps, in Front, below
Wa'nut-ftreet, on Monday the 34th inft. at n o'clock
at noon.
THIRTY BAGSCOFFEEj
The fame hiving been libelled against, profecutfd, and
condemned as forfeited in the said Biflri£t Court.
WILLIAM NICHOLS, MaribaL
Marlhil's Office, Bth of OSlober, J790.
-■. ■ 1
For Boston,
v The Brig Diana>
at Chefnut-ftreet wharf; will fill
in a few days, and take freight on mode
. rate terms—for which, or passage, apply on board, or to
y&feph Anthony & Co.
October ro. d 5
For Sale,
thr brig FAIR AMERICAN
Captaia Richard CAtttr,
AN eiititenew veiTel, and well finiJKed,
0/"VIA-slJy - - I:>uilt at Newb»ry-port, (N- E.) her plank
and timbers white oak : Sails well, and
is completely fitted—her dimensions are j 7 feet keel, llrait
rabbit— ti feet beam-—8 fefit 8 inches hold, and 4 1-7
between decks. She is now discharging spars, near the
Still-howfe wharf, Southwark, and if not disposed of i«
a few dayswill be fold at public Ijile at the City-Tavern,
on the evening sf the 13th inll.—Apply to
ISAAC HARVKY, jun.
S South Water Street.
lothmo, loth; dxw.
' ' For Sale >
: The remarkable fall failing 1
jgySSgig. SCHOONER LIVEL r,
1 now lying at Hamilton's wharf, built in 1794 by Mr
Yard at KeSfington, of jive-oak and red-cedar her di
■ menfions are 6X feet 3 inches length on deck 19 feet' 6
inches breadth, of beam—B feet 4 inches bold and tar/
ries between j and 600 barrels flour.—The Lively being
well known here, any iurther defcription.of her is unue
ceffary—fuffite it to fay, that (he is. not inferior to any
. veflel of her size in any refpeA whatever— For terms ap
, ply to EDWARD DUNANT, '
f No. 149, fotith Front-ftreeti
Who will'have landed on WedneUlay morning next, tronv
on board the BiigaotineLlßEß Rf, Captain
ot faid'wharf. *
, too Hog/heads prime Havanna MalaJfej,
, He has likewiie (or sale,
. A few packages of CALCUTTA GOODS—Confiding of
: l'uog;m Cloths, flumharas, Tickerys. Baftaes, Coffaes,
. Barhar, Pullicat and Bandanno Handkerchiefs, Guienahj,
, black laffaiies, Choppa Romalls, Currahs, Patna Chintzes
. &c. &c. Also,
A quantity of Rhode-lfland CHEESE, Spermaceti CAN.
Df tS, aud a few barrels BEEF.
J October 3. & •
TAKE NOTICE.
THE subscriber intends to make application fsr a re
newal of the following aertificate, to be
loft on the pafl'age to England, in April 1794 :
Certificate No. 1033J, dated 15th November, 1793 v
for 1830 dolhrs and 91 cents—Six per cent. domciUc
debt, »n the basks of the Tttafuryof the Uaittd States,
in the name of the Hon. John Trevor,
. ROBERT BIRD, at John Warder's.
Philadelphia. August 30th, 1796. "trfkffiw/For Sale,
A Wiree-ftory BRICK'HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut
J., v street, betweefi Front and Second dreets, in which pj
M -ifrs. James Calbraith & Co. have fox - many year» (and
now do)-earried on business.
Poffcllion will be given in one month, or sooner.
For terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or -j
HECTOR CALBRAITH. j
April si. §
A Manufactory FOR- SALE.
A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufa&ory, situate
in a convenient part of the city ; the works almost new,
on an entirely original conftru&ion, and built of the belt
•materials, and may be set to work immediately. Persons
"who wifii to purchase, arc requested to apply it No. 2731
South Second Street.
.September 13, ttC tf CI
Brokers Office, aiid
COMMISSION STORE.
No. 63 South Third ftreet,oppofite the national new Bank. T
- QAMUEL M FR VUNCES and JOHN *VAN REED, 1
O have entered into co-partnership, tinder the firm of ce
FRAUNCES & VAN RF.ED, in the business of Brokers,
Conveyancers and Commission merchants. They buy and
fell on commission every species of stock, notes of hand,
bills of exchange, houses and lands, &c.
_ Money procured on deposits, &c. &c. all kinds c r
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatnefsand
dispatch; accounts adjuded, and fettled, in the :
moll corred manner. Condaht attendance will be given. 2<
They foli'cit a share of the public favor ; they are deter
mined to .endeavour to deserve it. —
N*B. The utnvod secrecy observed. 2
SAMUEL M. TR MJNCES, 4 i
JOHN VAN REED.
Phflad. Atiguft 27, 1796- m&wtf 5
Valuable Real Estate, >n
For sale. at Aud'wn by Cafptr Thietl, of Hamburg,
late the property of fames and William Kinnear. tQ
For J'ali by public audion, on the Jth day of November ; n
next ensuing, at the sign of Gen. Walhington, Wood's j n
tavern, borough of Reading, Berks county, the follow
ing real estate, viz. . cc
M \ TRACTof land containing 465 acres with m
' 11 allowance for roads, called the Purchase, f u
filiated in Brunfwick township, Berks county, patented, e t
18th o ! Jan. 1788. This tract, of which about ij acres
are cleared, is of good foil, situated on the Tomagua, or
Little Schuylkill, well watered and timbered, on which is
ereded a good log duelling house and liable.
No. 2. A trad of unimprovedknd, containing 184 a
eres, with allowance, &c. called Hopewell, patented 18th —
October, 1790, situated in Brunfwick townffeip, Berks
county, foil good.
No. 3. A trad of unimproved land, containing 376 a- T
eres with allowance, &c. called HilUbarg, patented 48th -t
Odober 1790, Dtuation, &c. as No, 2. T
No, 4. A trad »f unimproved land, containing 388 a- ci
tres, with allowance, &c. patented 28 th of Odober, 1756,
situation, &c as No. 2 and 3. d;
No. 5- A trad of land, containing 268 acres, and 57 to
perches, with allowance, &c. situated in Brunfwick town- m
Ihip, Berks county, on Tomagua,or little Schuylkill, 5 ar
miles above town «f Hamburg, on which is ereded a
well finifhed two story fquaredlog dwelling house, 22 of
feet by 35, within the distance of 100 perchesfram a forge, w
with the advantage of a ferry and public house ; these ad
vantages render this trad very valuable." th
No 16. A town lot in Hamburg, enclosed with a post aj
and rail,or board fence, containing in front, 60 feet, and
in depth 18s feet, fubjed to a ground rent of 776 per an- p
Bum.
' No. in. A fawn lot in Hamburg pnrTnfrH asnn m
which it adjoins, being of the fame dimensions, and CubieCt h<
to the fame ground rent, on which is ereded a log liable, re
16 by lis feet at
No. 18 A town lot in Hamburg, adjoining to No. 17,
a corner lot 1 , fronting on Main and Schuylkill streets, di- tfi
mar.fions the fame as No. t6 and 1,7. above defcribsd, sub- re
jed to I<j/"o per annum ground rent. On this lot is er
eded a large 1 story dwelling house, 45 feet fr nt on Main es
street, by 34 feet in depth on Schuylkill street, pleasantly la
asd advantageously situated for a store. hi
N. B. The above described three town lots will be fold fe
separately or together, as may bed fu t the purch fers. in
Conditions ot/ale —One third of the purchase money
to be paid to the subscribers, or either of them in Philadel- -
phia, at or befarethe expiration of one month from the
day of sale, when a deed of conveyance will be executed j
the residue payable in 2 equal payments, at 6 and 12 months
with intered.the payment whereof to be secured by mort
gage on the premises. °
James Henderfon, 1 Afligneesto
Frederick Montmollih, I tKe eilate of 2
Thomas Rogers, f Jsmes & Wm. a
Jofefh D. Drinker, J Kinnear. ft
September 16. m & th. P
Treasury Djepartmcnt, "
September 28, 1796. «
NOTICE is hereby given, that proposals will be re- «'
ceived at the office of the Secretary of the Treasury "
until the expiration of the firft day of March next en- "
suing,' for thefupply of all rations which may he required »
for the use of the United States, from the firQ; day of "
June, 1797, to the thirty-firft day of May, 1798, both "
days inclusive, at the places and within the diftrids here- "
after mentioned, viz. At Ofwego; at Niagara; at "
Paefque lfle; at Sandufky Lake, and on Sanduiky "
River; at Detroit; at Michiliraackinac; at Fort-Frank- "
lin; ?t Pittsburgh; at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hamilton; "
at Fort St. Clair; at Fort jcfferfon ; at Grenville; at "
Picqne Town and Loramics Store; at Fprt Adams; at
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance ;at any place below Fort J
Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Eric; at Fort n
Steuben ; at Fort Malfac ; at any place from Fort Maflac li
to the south boundary of the United States on the river p
' Miffifippi; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiatanon. 1 c
If supplies (hall be required lor any pods or places not i:
mentioned in this notice, all Juch supplies (hall be fur- J
nilhed at prices proportioned to those to be paid at she
pods before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed on j
between the United States and the Contrador.
The rations to be supplied are to consist of the fol
lowing articles, viz. /,
One pound two ounces of bt;ead or flour. „
Ore pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounccs of J
pork or bacon. fc
Half a gill of rum, brandy cr whiikcy. v
OnetjUHrt a pint of falt."\ -
Two quarts ef Vinegar, ( , iundred a
Two pounds of soap, I n
One pouid of Canutes, '( I,
The rations are to be furnilbed infuch quantities, as that -
there (hall at all times during the said term, be fuflicient /.
forthe confumprlon of the troops »t Michiiimackinac, De- '
►roit, Niagara, and Ofwego, for the term of fix month# in
advance, and at each of the other pdfts, for the term of
at lead Uirce moaths in advance, in good and wholesome
provifibfis, if the fame Stall be required. It is to be un
derstood, that the Contrador is to beat the expence and
risk of iffuirgthe supplies to the troops at each post, and ,
(hat all leffes fuCatatd by the depredations of an enemy, or i
by means of the troops of the United States, shall be paid
for at the price of the articl s captured or destroyed, on
the depofitioEs of two or more persons of creditable cha
raders, and the certificate of a commifiioncd officer, af
certaiinng thc circuir.ftances of the loss, and the amount
. of the ai titles for which compcnfation (ball be claimed.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
JOHN MILLI2R, Tun. & Co.
Nt No. 8, CHESNUT STREET,
Have Imported in the late veflcla from Europe, See.
ld AWD HAVE 10 R SALE,
\ general assortment of GOODS, suitable to theleafon —
Amongst which arc,
BROAD and-narrow CLOTHS,
Plain and twill'd COATINGS,
Rose flripcd and point BLANKETS,
FLANNELS andßAlSEtf,
HATS afforttd in cases,
c IRISH LINENS,
INDIA GOODS, generally,
ns A Consigned of IRONMONGERY,
„ Comprising a capital aflbrtmentto open a sure—- inclu
ding Thirty Calks of NAILS. ThU invoice v/:ll be fold
entire on very advantageous terms.
September 10. * <i
Lottery
ik. T," OR raising fix thousand fix hundred ami sixty-seven
D, a. dollars and fifty cents, by a dedudion of fifteen per
of cent from the prizes, and not two blanks tea prize, viz
rs, I Prize of jooo dollars is dollars 5000
nd I 1000 1000
id, t 500 S°°
S " 100 loco
c f »o lOQ 4COO
nd 9, 50 495°
he aoo 15 jooo
:n. jooo 10 ao,ooo
:r- 5 Lad drawn numbers of 1000 collars each, 5000
2332 Prizes. 44.4J0
4018 Blanks.
6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44,4.50
By order of the Diredors of the Soriety for eftablifb
ing UfefalManufadures, the fuperinteidants of the Pat- .
erfon Lottery hive requested the Manigers to offer the (
S' foregoing Saheme to the public, and (live direded them
to refund the money to thufe persons who have parchafed
er in the former Lottery, or exchange tlii tickets for tickets
'' s in this Lottery.
v " Fhe lottery has adually commenced drawing, and will
continue until finifhed. A lid of the Blanks and Prizes .
; b miy be seen at the pffice ol William Blackburn, No. 64 |
fe, south Second street, who will giveinformation wAerc tick- j
d, ets may be procured.
85 Dated this 17th day of Jttne, 1796.
® r y. N- CUMMING, 7
» JACOB R. HARDENBERG,
JONATHAN RHEA, J !
a " dtf eo
tb " ' 1 ,
ks Samuel R/chardei,
a- T) ESPECTFULLY informs the gentlemen [
:h -*■V Merchants, that he has this day opend the CITY '
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEE HOUSE in the 1
a- city of Philadelphia:
6, The Subscription Room will be fu mi died vith all the 1
daily papers published in Philadelphia, New-ifork, Bos- 1
J7 ton, Baltimore, together with those of the priicip d coir- 1
n- metcial citi«s of Europe—They will be rigularly filed
5 and none permitted to be taken away on any account,
a Tea, Cpffee, Sonpes, Jellies, Ice Creams, asd a variety '
12 of French Liquors; together with the usual rifredunents, 1
;e, will at all times be procured at the bar.
d- Gentlemen may depend on being accommodited with !
the ch'oiceft of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the mod
>d approved Malt'Liqubrs froml.ondon and other Ireweries. \
id The Larder will be supplied with the prime ard earliest ]
n- productions of the Scafoo.
Large and small Parties, «r single Gentlemen, may-be '
t-fV riinnpre —or -
Ct hours mod conv nient to themlelves—a cold CwiationTs n
le, regularly kept for conveniency, the Bill of Fare to be-had
at tho bar. 1
7, The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifhed, and
li- the utmost attention paid to cleanliness, and every other
b- requisite.
:r- gj" S iMuel Richard tT will be happy to receive, and
in execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
ly large; and with gratitude for their favours he pledges
himfelf that nothing on his part (hall be wanting topre
ld serve that patronage with which he has been so diftinguifh
ingly iionored.
ey Philadelphia, April 19. raws
;1-
he Treasury of the United States.
:hs "M OT,C ? is hereby given to all persons who are or f
rt _ XN may be Creditors of the United States, for any sums
of the Funded Debt, or Stock, bearing a frefent inttrejl of Jix
per centum per annum.
to id, That pUrsuant to an Ad of Caagrefcpafled on the
of 28th day of April, I796,intitlcdan ad in addition to an
m. ad, intituled " An aft making fuither provision for the
support of public crsdit, and tor the redemption of the
public debt," the said debt or stock will be reimb uded and
paid in manner following, to wit. " First, by dividends
" to be made on the lad days of March, Juneand Septeuv
" ber for the prcfent year, and from the year one thousand
" seven hundred jand nincty-feven, to the year one thou
re- " sand eight hundred & eighteen inclusive, at the l ate of
:ry « one and one half per centum upon the original capital.
:n- " Secondly, by dividends to be made on the lail day of
«d " December for the present year, and from the year one
of " thoufar.d seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year
rth " one thousand eight hundred and seventeen inclusive, at
re- " the rate of three and one half per ctntum upon the ori«
at " ginal capital; and by a dividend to be maJe on the lad
ky " day of December, in the year oqe '.houfand eight hun
k- " dred and eighteen, of such furn, at will be then arte
n; « quate, according to the contrad, ior the final redemp
at " tion of the said dock.','
at 2d. All didindion between payments on account of
>rt Jnterefl and Principal being thins aboliihed by the eflablilh
jrt ment of the permanent rule of reimbursement above de
fac scribed, it has become necefiary to vjry accordingly the
ret powers of attorney for receiving dividends; the public
1 creditors will therefore observe that ihe following form
lot is.cdablifhedfor all powers of attormy which may be
ir- granted after the due promulgation olthis notice, via.
the KNOW ALL MEN BY THksE ?£ESENTS, tiat
on 1 of
do mate, conjiitute cn.l appoint
ol- of my tn* and lawful At'
torney,forme> and in my name, to receive the dividends rjobiib are,
or Jball be payable according to laiv t on tbg (here describing the
O' stock) Jlanding in my name in ihe books of (here deferib ing the
books of the Treasury or the Commifficncr of Loans,
where the dock is credited) from (here lfifert the com
mencement and expiration of time for which tke power of
n _ attorney is to continue) -with power also .an attorney or attor
. nies under bint for that purpofc to make andfubfitute, and U do ail
lawful a£ls requifitefor effecting the hereby ratifying and
confirming all that my said Attorney or hisfubfitute yfball laioful
-nt ly do, by virtue hereof. 1
3c- t In Witness hereof 1 have hereunto set my Hand and Seal the
* in day tf in the year
of Sealed and Delivered
me in prefene^ofy
Lin- BE I T KNOIVN, that on the day tf
md tfore me personally came
tnd -within named and acknowledged ihe above letter of attorney to be
>or his *£l and deed.
aid In teflitnony whereof I have hereunto set my Hind - -id ajfix
on N ed Seal the day and year lafi afi eft *1,
ba- Given under my Hand at Philadelphia, this twen
af- tieth day of July 1796, pursuant to dircdions
ant from the Secretary of the Treasury.
SAMUEL MEREDITH,
Ireafurer 4f the United States.
For Sale,
A Complete Font ot Brevier,
ENtirelv new , and yet upopened. 'The weight of this
font is about 311 lb. It is from the Founder/ of
Wilson & Sons, Glasgow, aiid will be fold at cost & charges.
Also for Sale, a pair of Super Royal Chafes..
Enquire at the Office of t f.t? Gazette of the United
States, 419 Chefnut-ftreet.
September 37*
City cf Waihifigton.
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11,
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT 0 t THE
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent ) 20,000 dollars, & ? 000
dvelling-houfe, 5 cash 30,000, sre 5 '
1 ditto 15,000 & cash 35,000 40,000
X ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
I ditto 10,000 & cash 10,000 20,000
I ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
r ditto 5,000 & cash s*ooo 10,000 ,
1 cash prize of 10,000 (
2 do. 5,000 each, are • 10,000 ,
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,000.
20 do. 500 • - 10,000
00 do. too ' - • 10,000
»oo do. 50 10,000
400 do. IS " 10,000 ,
1,000 dp. 20 - 20,000 1
15,000 do. 10 • - 150,000
16,739 Prizes.
31,261 Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, ' 400,000
N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity of
Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the 1 a st drawn
ticket, and the 30,000 the last bvt one :
And approved notes, securing payment in either money
or prizes, in ten days atter drawing, will be received for
any number not less than 30 tickets.
.This Lottery will afford sn elegant fpechaen of the pri
vate builcfings to be erefled in the City of Washington—
Two beautiful designs arc already felecfted for the elitire
fronts on two of the public squares; from these prawings
it ispropofed to erect two centre and four corner buildings,
as soon as poflible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in w
the manner described in {he scheme for the Hotel Lottery.
A nett deduction of five per cent, will be made to defray t
the necessary expenses of printing, &c. and the surplus a
will be made a part of the fund intended for the Natisnal {
ÜBiverfity, to be erecled within the city of Washington.
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
fold off.—The money prizes will be payable in thirty days
after it is finifhad ; and any prizes for which fortunate
numbers are not produced within twelve months after thk
drawing is closed, are to be confidercdas given towards
the fund for the University ; it being determined to fettle
the whole business in a year from the eiding of the draw
ing, and to take up the bonds given as security.
The real fecurit>es given for the payment of the Prizes,
are held by the President and two Diredors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
mount of the lottery.
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of
the late Commiflioners aflifted in the management of the
Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake this arduous talk
a second time on behalf of the "public ; a fufficioßt num
ber. of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
friends to a National University and the other federal ob
je&s may continuAo favor the deGgn.
By accounts received 'from the different parts of the
t * .11111 InT^ir —ar\p!'ll as IT/VTH '1 H TtW Mi I,ll* -
have been Unt for sale, the public are assured that the.
drawing will speedily commenae, and that, the carcand
caution unavoidably necessary to insure a fafe disposal of
the tickets, has rendered the lhort fufpeufion indispensable.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
„§, Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; ©
James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter Gilman, Boston
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells
Cooper's Ferry. eo
Watson's Answer to Gibbon. >
yUST RECEIVED,
And for .sale by J. OR MROD, No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet,
Apology for Christianity,
In a Jerift of Letters, addrefjed to
Edward Gibbon, Est^.
Author of the History of the Decline and Fall of the |
Roman Empire:
Bv R. IVATSO N, d. d. f. r. s. Bishop of Landaff.
(Price 75 cents bound.)
Watson's Answer to Paine,
To be had at the fame place. I
The enemies of Religion are awake ! Let not ber
friends Jleep. *
Sc Pt- *• mw&ftly.
NOTICE.
THE Subscriber, having been reduced in his circum
ftanccs, by sundry misfortunes, and being thereby
finable to fatisfy his just debts, hereby gives notice to his .
Creditors and to all pcrfons concerned, that he intends to |
apply to the General AfTembly of Maryland at their next I
session to be held on the firfl Monday of November next. I
for the benefit of an a»£l of insolvency. <
V/lLLlA'vt ED,MONDSON ;
Eaflon. tft of the qth 1796. iawliflMN 1
To be fold,
A PLANTATION, in 'hetown of Woodbury, coun- ,
ty of Gloucester, and slate of New'Jerfey, contain
ing about ont hundred and fifty acres ; a suitable propor
tion of which is woodland and improved meadow. A
great part of the arable land is in a high state of cultiva
tion, and very natural to the production of Red Clover,
On said plantation there is a genteel two-story brick house,
with four rooms on a floor, afld a good dry cellar inider
the whole ; together with a barn, corn-cribs and carriage
heufe. The garden is large, and contains a good collec
tion of the belt kinds of grafted and inoculated fruit trees •
' the orchard consists of about three hundred grafted apple
trees. Any person inclined to purchale said prcmiles, may
be informed of the terms by applying to
ANDREW HUNTER.
J u 'y -9 j
To be Sold,
At No. 128, North Second-Street, and by feueral of
the Apothecaries in this City.
.HTRANSFERS of the right to remove pains and inflamma
■ A tiom from the human body, as fe&red to Dr. ELISHA
PERKINS, by patent, with instruments and direst it s Be
ceffary for the prattice. This mode of treatment is particu
larly ufeful in relieving pains in the head, face, teeth, breast,
Gde, stomach, back, rheumatisms, recent gouts, <Scc. &q.
SJotwithftanding the utility of this practice, it is not pre
, fumed but there are cases in which this and every other
remedy may sometimes fail.
. )"" c '• law
To be disposed of,
i '"PHE time of a healthy NEGRO WOMAN, who
X has between four and five rears to fe^ve: She
can be recommended for her ibbriety and honeily. For
pariiculars enquire at No. 132, Cheftiut-ftreet.
August 3. w&ftf
I
■
A
Mr. FIIANCI S,
[Of the New Theatre)
J s '"T'AKES this opportunity of returning thanks to hi*
,j- X scholars and to the public. Mr. Franc's intends,
s . on his return from Maryland, to open a public aca
demy for dancing, upon a plan entirely new. He
d flatters himfelf that his attention to his pupils Hi
therto renders any promises of conducing his future
schemes on the most liberal and ttriilefl terms, of jwo
priety, totally untieceffary.
N. B. Private tuition as usual.
? June 3 law
No. 154.
DiJlriS of Pennsylvania, to -wit :
C T) E ' c remem nered tha: on the 26th dayof Sep.
< SEAL > JL) tember,in the twenty-firft ye.ir of the Inde
ed j pendence of the United States of America,
braham Bradley, junior efthe laid DifhicS,hath deposited
in this office, the title of a Map, the right whereoi, he
claims as author in the words following to wit,
" Map of the United States exhibiting the situations,
" connections & diflancesof the Pod-Offices, Stage roads,
" Counties, Ports <lf Entry and Delivery for Foreign res
" ids, and the principal rivers,
By ABRAHAM BR ADLEY, jun."
In conformity to' the A A of the Congress of the United
States intituled " All aii for the encouragement of learn
ing by securing the copies of maps, charts, and books to
the authors and proprietors of such copies during tha
times therein mentioned." jj
Samuel Caldwell, Clerk,
' DiJlriß of Pennsylvania.
The above map may be had of the author at the General
Poft-Office, next door to the War-Office in Fifth-Street,
and at his kouf.-, No. 78, cornef ox Crqwn Street and
Brewers Alley between 4th and sth, and Vine and Cal
lowhill Sreets. Prices from 3Jto J dellars each, accord.
' ing to the manner in which they are finifhed. The pro- ;
n grefs (or arrivals and departures) of the Mail on. the Main
Line may be had separate for 3 7 \ ceents.
Oil. 3. law6w.
WANTED,
An APPRENTICE to the Printing Bufmefs.
Enquire atthis Office. ' Aug. 9
I Wafhmgton Canal Lottery,
y NO. I.
n "IT THEREAS the State of Maryland has authorifnd
V V the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
Y two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the puipofe of cutting
® a Canal through the City of Washington, from th P»j
' tomacto theEaftern Branch Haruour.
The following is the SCHIiME of No. 1.
Viz .1 Prize of 20,000 dollars, 30,00 a
ditto 10,000 . 10,000
7 last drawn ■>
Tickets, each j *> 000 3J.000
6 ditto ifioo 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,000
ao ditto 100 4,000
55 ditto JO 4,750
J S 75° ditto 12 69,00s
To be ralfed for the Ounal, 26,250
j 5850 Prizes, 175,00 a
e 11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.j
k
i X7s°o Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 173,000
£5" The Commissioners hav« taken the Securities' re
quired.by the aforefaid aft for the punctual pay merit of
the prizes.
The drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
delay "..(np ll ?' th" 1 Tii-lrets nrr fajd, nf <yt"'rh timplT
notice will be given.
j Such prizes as are not demandedin fix months after th*
jf drawing is finilhed, {hall be confidcred as relinquiflied for
the benefit of t-he Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed) NOTLEY YOUNG,
o DANIEL CARROLL, o/D.
, LEWIS DEIILOIS,
Is GEORGE WALKER,
W m . M. DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of Waihingtofl, Feb. jr. 5
t, At a special meeting of the Board of Di
reclors for eftaili/bing ufeful Manufactures, ho! Jen
at Pal erf oil) July 8, 1796,
RESOLVED, That a fpeci&l meeting of the Stock
holders of the Society be called on the iirft
lc being the third ay of O&ober' next, at Paterfoii, by ten
of the- clock of the fame day ; then and there to tsk-e
into consideration the propriety of diffolvifig the faiJ
corporation, agreeably to the law m .inch cafe made and
provided—and the Stockholders are earneflly rcqucfted
to attend the said meeting.in person or by proxy,
r Augufl 27. dt^othO
FOR SALE.
A PLANTATION,
ABOUT 12 miles from this City, situate in Abing
ton 1 ownlhip, Montgomery-County ; containing
15 70 a*res, a new ftobe house, two {lories high, 2 rooms ona
0 floor, fire places in each, a {tone kitchen and stone tyring
■t house, over an excellent spring of water, a barn, fables,'
t. sheds, barracks, &g. A laTgc apple orchard, and a variety of
other fruit, about 12 acres of good meadow well watered,
and wood fufficicnt for fire,and fencing the place. •Poflcfl'i
sj on may be had the ift of April next. Property in this city
will betaken in exchange, or MOkRIS and NICHOLSONS
Notes in payment. Enquire at No. 37, Arch-Stictt.
Philadelphia, September 13, 1796, ttf:f
r- FOR SALE,
t A very Valuable Eltate,
r- /CALLED TH" IT TENH AM, situate in the
e ' v( townfliip of Upper Derby, and county of Delawar'i,
'' 7 1-2 miles from Philadelphia; and half a mile from the
e " new Western road: containing 230 acres of excellent land,
" 45 which arc good watered meadow, 90 of prime woorl
-5 > land, and the refl arable of thtt firft quality. There are
E " on the premises a good two story brick house, with 4 rooms
'y on a floor, and cellars under the whole,'with a pump-well
of excellent water in front; a large frame barn, (table's,
and other convenient buildings ; a smoke-house and {tone,
spring-house ; two good apple orchards, and one of peach
es. The fields are all in clover, except those immediately
under tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advantage
. of water in each of them, whick renders it peculiarly con
venient for grazing.
s The fiturftion is pieafant and healthy, and from the high
A cultivation of the land, the good neighbourhood, and the
e _ vicinity to the city, it is very suitable for a gentleman's
j. country lest.'
it, The foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Harman,
deceased, and offered for sale by
c " Mordecai Lewis,
o£l. 9. tt&f Surviving Executor.
o PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO,
ie —N6. iiq—
jr
CHFSNWT-STKEET.
[Price Eight Dollars per .ijinum.]
i
V' - -T- " i