> , • - : f /; VJ
" " . - " 5 '- %* . . *' * <
j #aiztu of the tEnitetj States, <& Philadelphia j
MOVDAr EVENING, OCTOBER 3,, .796.
.. — * * ' "
No. 18, NORTH SECOND-STREET, j
John Green & Co. c
H»ve for Sale, on low terms, for Calh »r the usual g
credit, j
A General AJfortment of I
Ironmonger)', Cutlery, Brass and Ja- |
panned Wares, s
And a quantity of Groorv! White Lead, and Spanilh j.
Brown in Oil and Powder. I
likewise, C
A small invoice of Hats, of different qualities. S
oaok-r 26. I
- J
To be fold by au&ion, t
At the Merchant's Coffee-Hmife, on 4th
* day, the second of next month, at 6o' 0
clock in the evening,
WB&n. Ship WILLIAM PENN,
Philadelphia bailt, of cedar and live-»ak; burthen
about 360 toss; (he is in good order, nuw ready to take
in a cargo —This ship being well known, It is needless
giving a detail of further particulars, as any person in- "
clining to purchase may be informed thereof by enquir- .
inir of the Captain on board, Jefle and Robert Wain, or .
John Field & Son. '
The terms of payment will b« approved notes At
1, 4, and 6 months.
10th mo. 29th. dtV>
On TUESDAY, the ift November, at 7 o'clock,
at the C'ofFee-Houfe,
Will be Sold by Public AuEtion,
The ship DOLPHIN, r
Captain George Graham, as (he now
at the Oid Diflil-Hoofe Wharf,
the Swedes Church —this veflel
is supposed to csrrjrHt&oo (0 iSoobarreU —the inven
tory may be feen'at the fubicriuer*V-»aw l --«_t}ie CofTee- _»
House.
Footman Ss 5 Co. Auctioneers,
O&ober 29. 1
For BRISTOL, L
PHI LAD EL PHI A,
TffiyaS Theodore Bliss, master.
A new ship, on her second voyage, with the best
accommodations for passengers, and is intended to lail
with all expedition. For freight or pafl'age apply to
the Master on board, or to
Thomas iff John Clifford:
Who have just imported in fiid veffsl, and have for
sale, besides their general aflbrtinont
r{ IRONMONGERY,
A quantity of fine drawn and common iharp and
flat point NAILS ; double & Angle roll'd Sheet Iron ;
Iron Pots, Kettles, and Iron Weights, of all sizes ;
London and Bristol Pewter in calks, aflorted j boxes
ef Tin Plates ; «afes of Men's, Women's and Boys'
Hats ; crates of earthen and flint Glass Ware ; crates
of Phials; boxes of Window-Glass ; boxes of long
and Ibort Pipes; Copper in Sheets; Oval Quart Bot
tles in lilrrrpcrrr alio, a "ftrw Jaflts nLfesillcd Beer,
and two bales of Superfine Broadcloths and Cafli
meres.
Oaober»7- m&th2v
f or Charter)
Ship Dominich Terry,
Jacob De Hart, master : an excellent
of about 3000 barrels burthen.
Jeffe Iff Robert Wain.
September «i. ■ d
f or Charter,
Danish Barque BenEventuf.Aj i
M Yj<v Samuel Stub, master, '
A good vcflcl, of about two hundred
tons burthen. JESSE & ROBERT WAJ.N.
Sept. 17. dtf
FOR LONDON, j
Ths capital/hip CERES,
f° on : —freight or pafl'age
to DAVY, ROBERTS & Co. or
_ _r - yohn Vaughan^
September 10. Front-street.
The Brig MART,
Lying at Meflrs. Willings and Francis's
wharf,burthen 1000 barrels, built in Phihdetphia in 1793
of live oak and red cedar. l —She is well found, and may '
be sent to Tea at a small expeace. For terms apply to
Gurney & Smith. ,
oa. 6. dtf. 1
For Bolton, Newbury-Port and Ports- i
mouth, New-Hampfliire,
- The Schooner LUCT, !
• ( V Daniel Prowfe, master; will fair in 1
t the cour! " e of a week, and take freight '
on moderate terms, for which, or '
• ' pjfTage, apply 011 board, or to f
Joseph Anthony, & Co. '
Ociober 17. j ®
For SALE, \
The Schooner INDUSTRY, 1
J'- r hs fixty-fcyen tons burthen, almost a new s
veifel and well found. Eor terms apply to 1
]Joseph Anthony & Co. '
I f the Industry is not fold ;n a few days, (he will take
freight very law for Boston.
Ofttber 24. ' <J7 j
For Fr.eight or Charter,
ran The ship COMMERCE, !
NATHANILL CURTIS, Master. ,
AWfbfti new veQel, tans burthen, and will
be.ready to receive a cargo in a few days. For
trims apply on board at Bright's wharf, or to
Joseph Anthony & Co.
For Sale on board the abov; Vrjftl,
A quantity of excellent COAL.
Q. a Persons having goods oa board, are eafneftly icqueft
«d to tnd their pcrn»i;».
October ai. di 6t
j LANDING,
Out of different vejfels from England, and for sale
by the fubjcribers on reasonable terms,
Superfine and common cloths, and caflimers
Ribbed and striped do. do.
Blankets, mottled green and silk rugs.
■ Sajicrfine blue, Claret, and c»m;na:i coatings,
Kerseys, Bear-Jkins, plains and Halfthichs,
Swaolkins, Serges and Flannels, \
' Britilh Ingrain Carpeting,
Hstsa£brted ui cases of 1 a dpt. each.
Cikocol'dtc chlnties, printed Callicoes and Handkerchiefs.
Scarlet Cardin&ls, and Scarlet Snail,
Yarn, Worllcd, and Cotton hosiery,
. Beavers, Thickfetts, Velvets, Corduroys, &c. &c.
Buff and drab Genoa Cords of a superior quality.
Gdk;Bd. lod Ud. aod. naih, and frying pans,
1 Anaffortmcnt of Ironmongcrry, Cutlery and a variety
' of India cotton, and silk go.,ds.
Thsmas Iff JoJhua Fijher.
No. 5, Dock-fttrect.
1 Also by the Glasgow from Dublin,
1 1-8 and 4-4 frifti Linens alforted in boxes of 30 pieces,
' do. Brown, Glazed Linnen.
s Oil. 17. dtf.
■ The Cargo of the Polacre Independent,
CAPTAIN CATHCART, from Alicant and Lis
bon, landing at the fubferibers wharf—
[ 28 Pipes of Brandy
18 Bales of Spanilh wool
3 do. of Annifecd
7000 Bulhels of belt Lilbon Salt
80 Boxes of Lemons
For sale by WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
ALSO,
Seventy Hoglhcads of prime JAMAICA SUGAR)
received by the ship Dominkk Terry, Capt. De Hai
' from Kingston.
' Sept. 13. d
Just Arrived,
Ay the Fly, Caftciirx fiubher, from London,
Double racked, Brown Stout Porteb
in hpgfheads.
Painters' Colours, in i-a and 1-4 eWt. kegs, packed
hogsheads.
Copperas in hogsheads.
Whiting, &c. For Sale by
, Peter Blight.
Oitober 25. dxttsaw
} For Sale,
0 This day Landing from on board the fliip Concur:,
Captain Thompson, from Amjlerdam,
Gin, in pipes
r Gin Cases
Hock in cases of 4 doz.
Gllifs Tumblers in chests
, Sweet Oil in eases
Patte Graffe Cheese in boxes, tp"c.
Also Landbig by the Louisa, Capt. Bell, from Lifb
60 Quarter-calks Lisbon Wine.|
On Hand, ■
A quantity of Brandy, Hazle-Nuts in sacks, See. '
Peter Blight.
October 17. da\% eozV
Tor Sale,
By Jehu Hollingjworth, & 'Co.
25 hhds. Weft-India Rum, 3d aad 4th proof,
5 Barrels bell Indigo, and,
A few thousand bulhels of Turk's llland fait,
oa. 17. d,
t FOR SALE,
An elegant HOUSE, No. 78, Walnut
street;
WHICH is 25 feet front, by 171 feet deep, with
lot adjoining, 20 1-2 feet wide, by 72 feet 8 inche
deep. (This lot is back of the house occupied b
George Willing, Esq.) The house is completely finift
ed in every refped. It is 50 feet deep, has tw
d large parlours, the front one 24 feet, the back one i
22 feet, by 18 1-2 feet, a handsome drawing-room
24 1-2 feet by 24 feet. The rooms below, the draw
- ing-room and the chambers adjoining, have mahogan
doors, and these as well as the rooms above them hav
a communication with each other. The height in th
ftrft and second story is 12 feet, And have ftoco cor
re nice?, aad nine rooms up flairs, besides the garrets
)r which are divided into three rooms, a good kitchen
waft-houfc, milk and bathing-houses, a laree ice
We,-* primpin the yard, and a 3 feet 3 inch alley
_ that leads into Fourth-,lreet, The cellars arc la.d wit
lime, and floored with two inch plank, and p] a ftere<
The yard is well paved, and the house is clear <
ground-rent. All the rooms have bells in them, an
>s ! chamber bells ring in the garret, as well as in tl
entry dpwn flairs. All the chambers have white tile
v excep f, the f i>e , next . t0 the drawing room, which h;
ai well as; he drawing-room and the two parlours b,
ow, marble chimney pieces. The drawing-room, tl
rr °r J r* , a,id ihe entr y> are „«,
the thud story: In the room over the kitchen is a
• f °r h IT -li" r a(h ,00m there is an oven, an
- the back buildings, from the cellar, all the way u.
have large closets, and in the cellar is a large bott
rack, a wine store is; taken off of the cellar, fnd thre
bins to hold bottled liquor are made in said roor
„ with padlocks to them ; the whole cellar and the c«4
1 O, crcd as a "y room in the houfi
r p r Jf « e Un u m evtr >' ref P ea completely finift
f'yf® 0 " abc B' ve " in days after the ho,ii
s fold. Two brick ftablcs in Walnut-street, wit
two coach houses. one of them will hold two carr
- ages, the other one. The smallest K ab le has room fc
three, and the largest for fotlr horses. It } s isi , f
front ."g_Walnut-sreet by 50 feet. , in.W )
have etciUent lofts qver thim.
v and laid with lime and two-inch plank, and the cellars
will hold about 100 pipes of wine: Is clear of ground
rent, and has the privilege of an 11 1-1 feet alley, that
e leads i«o I-ifth-ftreet. Also a brick store, 33
on rourth-flreet, by 50 feet deep, which might at a ]
fmal. txpence beturned into a handsome dwelling house ]
..avinj b«n fo-tontrivedintbe l>uildi ng . I t has a yard
40 fee: 6 inches wide, by 24 feet deep, has a rain wa- '
ter punp, and other conveniences, and the cellar is laid
> with two inch plank, and is now rented at 40 dollars
per month. This building is fubjeel to a ground rent of .
II dolars 3-4 per annum. The store and stables I would
give immediate pofleflion of.
George Meade,
„ . /3, Walnut Street.
l - _ dx. I
1- WANTS D,
An APPRENTICE to the PnrUng Eufine*. \
inq«re at this Office. '
| ' (
Irish Linens, &£.
Imported per the Jbips Glafgozv, from Dublin, L 'tbe
ty, from Cork, and biig Mentor, from Self aft,
4-4 md 7-8 Wide IRISH LINENij
In whole and half boxes,
Affsrted from lid. to 49. fferling—Alfo j-4 wit
Sheetings, and low priced yarn and vrerftcd Hose.
On Hand,
7-3 Lawnt.
Di.iptrs u»d Tayt-Clorhs
At fevv'JfcxesTickens ancf Checks
A few bales Flannels
Cork and Bclfaft Sail Cloth, Nos. I and 6
35 Boxes } f 6by 8,
10 Ditto > Window Glass, < 7 by 9,
5 Ditto J > (. 8 by *4>.
The above mentioned Goods are all entitled to t.
drawback; find will be disposed of by the package 1,
r?a£onable terms.
James, Clibborn & Engiifli,
No. 6, N. Front-ftrec
loth mo. dtf
Just Imported,
In the fchocu:r Lucy, Capt. Prows, from Maderi
and to he fold by
ELLISTON y JOHN PEROT,
A • - 0 - r ---
ing Success.
Bv GEOFFRY TOUCHSTONE.
■ totw, and Told tw Mr. Benjaraii
D.-.vies, No. 68, Market-street, and-the principal
Bookfcllers in the City.
CVRoberaS, * eoj
J" his Day is Published,
By William Cobhett, opposite Clirft-Churdl, f
An Aniwer to Paine's Rights of Man,
By R. Makenzie, Esq. of Edinburgh.
To which is added, ,
A Letter to Citizen Swanwick,
B y Peter Porcupine.
„ indicated to BodW Joseph Priertley,
Fellow «f the Royal Society of I.cndo D , Citizen of
America and Deputy- to the Nations! Convcn
tion ot i ranct.
OS.il
hi ■
V".'On artel, c<B.i Sw -
Also for Sale, a pair of Super Royal Chafes.
Enouire it the Office of the Gazette of the United
States, «I 9 Chefnut-ftreet.
September 27.
A CLOSE COACH, which has run about 7 months
a P air of brown, able-bodied horsks, for sale
0 " e " termS - A PP'y at No * 6 3. foXth Third-
P. S The coach is more particularly calculated for the
winter season, ha»mglarge glafc lights and Vcauiaa blinds.
October s 4 . dlw
' ■ '..s# Ct "')• ••>11
. .'tfUHt
flinces limilar to thole ol '93 ; a, . fees itfelf
•bligcd to abancion, with refpedt to t.,rm and neu
tral powers in general, the favourable line of con*,
dust they had pursued, and to adopt different irtea
fures, the Hume (hould fall upon the Britiik goTcrn
mtnt—lt is their eondu£t which the French gov
ernment has been obliged to follow.
'he undersigned Minister Plenipotentiary con
;s it his duty to 'remark >to the Secretary of
e, that the neutral governmcnis or the alltea of
Republic have nothing to' fear a* to the trtfat
t of their flag by the French, (nice, if keeping
in the bound* of their neutrality, they cailfe.
ights of that neutrality' to be refpe£ted By the
Snglifh, the Republic wi]l refpett them. But
o' weakftef*, partiality or ether motives, they
' fuftcr theEnglifti to sport with that neutral
ind turn it to their advantage, could they then
Ulin, when, France, to restore the balance of
ality tyit* equilibrium, fhalla£l in the fame
jr at the English ? No, certainly; for the
Jlity of a nation consists in granting to belli
t powers the fame advantages, snd that neti
no longer exists when, in the of the
that neutral nation grant* to one of the belt;-
powers, advantage* not flipulated by treaties
»r to the war, or fuffers that power to feiie
•he'rci. The neutTi! government cannot then
»in if the Other belligerent pfcwer wilt enjoy
ages whicK itsenemy enjoys, or, if it feijte*
in ; otherwise that neutral government would
with refpe£t to it, from the line «f neu
and would become its enemy.
le undersigned Miniiltr Plenipotentiary thinks
tlef* further t« develope these principles. He
not doubt that the Secretary of State feels all
force, and that the governmeat of the United,
* will maintaujJfcoaLal 1 violation • neutrality J
; —r -«•»
-' I/*#
which, it appear* that he
till he was flanked, and tfrm vra» reryaflive
ing hi* escape. The Sukfcriber, who fav
tells us he saw him again at Richmond,
kt enemy had t*>atu*t,d it; and that hi fa<,
him again at Charlettefville, but whether befor<
■ Tarleton'i mvafion or after he evacuated it, hi
does not iay : This Übiquitarian, who like Mun
Z o 10 the padlock, was here, and then, and fwnl
Z L h " r ;^ ue ' ied , to tell whether he also saw
Mr. jefferfon in the wood near Charlottefvillf.:
where loft h,s fwoid, and whether the sword wu
in the Icabbard or drawn i
A QUERISt. ,
.*3 You »av be afTu'ed thai "ihe ' Stowing i» die. ■
! TOtfrfMiM tn Ao<tf Democracy. It may justly be
' 0 called
tfat- "A'BAIT FOR GUtfGEONS.
)ing [7> he /aidor
attfe. —t
the FREEMEN OF PENNSTLF AN lA,
Sut Take caution. The ariftociats of our country are
endeavoring to deceive with the name of Waffi
:r*l-' i ß gton. They'preftfme to cafl theirs " IVftjhing
hen tan ticket." Beware fellow-citizens ps the IVajh
eof ington ticket, it'is intended to fupporrthe eleftton
>me 0 f the monarcbifl ADAMS, and begins with the
the name of Jfi atl Wktclen. I ,
flli- OUR REPUBLICAN ticket begins with the
"It- name of Thomas M'Keari, and is intended to sup- 1
the port the eledion ef the RSPUBLfCAN JEF- i
FERSON. Eciieve ui, fejlnw citizsns, that your
tie's' prefitlent Washington loves a republican and hates
tiie a monarchist. He therefore w-ifhet tbat'thcrepub
lic»n'Jrfierfos may be his fuecefibr.
joy
res Frecftien Pennsylvania - j
uld Take caution'—or you'll rue the day*
eu - Th' aristocrats you majf believe us
Are now endeavoring to deceive us
. With the name of Walhington %
' T° make their ticket friEelynfo
1 With most confommatj impudence I
a " To which iv* have the sole pretcHce
ted. Fr-fume to call it by a rfame
ity | 'Tis our's by patent to defame.
Then fellow-citizens beware,
"t This ticket is a cunning ihare ;
It i^(rtifended to. fapport
That friend of monarchs and a court—
1 Johis*ftdams they design fiiall (leal ia
$ By the name of Ifracl Whelen.
Our ticket is
J And this the compass of our plan—
Kumtmber on it firft tf seen
The worth)' name of T. M'-Kean ;
V And to support it is intended,
A namf 'which freedom has defended;
So pure a democratic son, {
i: God ne'er before made ftich a one.
p BeJieve u*,. fellow-citizens,
(We lie v ci" lit Y»;tk tongues or pens)
Your Washington—the truth we state r
p "Loves what we love—hates we hate;
Republicans and monarchies,
) Tfte firft-adorts—tie last dctefts —
Whene'er the helm he quits, he wi(h<s ( j #
That <ws may share the loaves and filhe*;
That Jeffert'on the great prtfejfar, t j.
May be by uj made hi* fuccelTor. - 4J
'owgj-earuhe flaird'rou» ( peit has rung
orth to south, on ev«ry demo's tongue , by
, they curs'd him in their drunken dr«ms?j ler
•, the press groas'd with their lying themes—
3w—t'oerrtn the whole, they'd hlaft his fame,
king their designs and his, the fame.
r& ef a letter frtm Kcjar's t<r?vn, (Mttrtfind,)
dated 2iji o Sober, 1796.
General Hiijler has been here twice within
few weeks, and appear* to have taken very
imen pain* with fomeof our citizens, to pre. ™' (
themagainft Mr. Adams, tb whom they'werc liki
ufly favourable ; and what renders it more »cr
i»ble, are the means which he ha* used on j* l
*afien, considering that he-i« not an inhe4>i- "1'
this Rate, and of conrfr %n intruder at our > 0 f
•, this is also the more iartficed, at he and *ac
.lily have lately been completely defeated i» or 1
V 1 d'JlriS. It is only since th; general's vi- me
« we have had the pleafwre of feeing several dec
■lis, denouncing John Mams as a monarcbift Th
yurgu.th 1 patriotic jeferfen. The general, Mi
fxtreme affeaion f»r this diftrift, hat furnifli- tha
sos our citiien* with some feleft afid choice f ? ;1
s from that gentleman's book, merely to save
>od farmers the tabor of reading fa volumi- " a "
{work, "which, were they t» do, would pro- the
convey to them an opinion of that writer, brii
lifferent ifrsm tl»t which the general withes Rlil
Icate.'' »• 'Eib
cap
r 4-S
i meeting of s number of citf*erfs, at Og. Bar
vern, New-marlet ward.Odlober 29, 1796. lar;:
J tickets for electors, which have been pub-
thci news-papers, were read, and it was una- dift'
i> rct d to support the following as a truelv iz
ra ' 1 and. Republican Ticket. I rooi
ie having been framed and recommended 3
-table meeting of a numbrr of the -mem-
'■* legiflaturc, and other citizens, the friend* Dw
and good government, from different part* B,li
(ate, immediatnly previous to the rifinr of clof
/ably, viz. ** rum
rae! Whelen, Philadelphia, &°°'
:muel Miles. IRg s
-nty Wynkoop, Bucks, J cies
Arndt,
slentine Eckhart, Be.ks, so
iomas Bull. Chester,
b«rt Colt-man, Lancafler, tion^
■in Carson, Dauphin, the
■lliam Wilson, Northumberland, Phil
rtnel Pofllcthwaite, Cumberland,
?ob Hsy, York, St
»ja«oin L lhott, Hunt ingdon,
hraim Dnuplas, Fayette,
tn Woods, Allegheny,
StokelT. Wafl lingten. J
ir-Hor, !t ih?<
in c-iiSi-,% c b- %rrd •
rei c
period whsn .h c Clwlivn G. !
' f wif«b:»,M- I filf
XT?™?"- _i'" 1
elea'ors ffT fun,,POßed to ch °'cc ot ftr'
Z TjL P f'i cnt and Vicc Pl c Mem. and 2
he piudence of that choice, will i„ a o rcjt mea , 6
the 6 ° U r fUU,rC P ' aCC a " d ha PP {n <f f »- Wliild *°o
the defolatmg sword of War is deftroyip K , ilc fai
eft coumnes in Europe-America is kepf in peace '° 0
our' r r e?ent a P d Ude « f;liCm ° f P ohV >' by To
wWhSrLif" ,n ; r " , ? n . tbc- clouds As
feciredTo " Cd ° Ur P oliti «l horifon.and
J ' W VVUI " oofe c '««cr S who have uriform-
!y evinced ae of Pn «?
i tKerefore be expected to their fuff,ap'er
•'>' be vor of men who will prqbably continue th e f .
fyltem of wife and patriotic policy If f uc f,"
our determination, the pnfonj now rtcommrr,/ '
v will naturally becom- the objedh of our c i lo ,
To the prudence •{ those republican citizens, J
y are cerf 'y attached to our national government, wc r ■
fadi- frfc'y cntn,ft the P» w " ot making appoint .
%i„v. "» important and interfiling.
Vajh- With no tfefire of dictating to our fc!W c
ftion ar,d w , lt , h »<> mtereft but what i. common
the ail, do we address you. The happiness of our. ..
try » involved in the choice that (hall be «ade «
i the we therefore foTTcit warmed e*ertion» in % \
ft,p- P ortof charade™ whose fuffrige* wi.l enfurc'i'-
EF- P eace 3nd p ro 'peniy of the United States.
y° ur a a P™ RGE .LATIMER. Ch,;,n,>
ia!es At,eft - JOSEPH HOPKINSON, SecV '
pUb " IHK PANTHEON,
And R/cketts's Amphitheatre
f For E l ueftr »» Stage performances. Corner ot
Cftelnut and Sixtli-flreets
% THIS EVENING, Monday, Oft. 3l>
V jfcV v be prefonted,
of
EXERCISE J
And Stage Pcr'ormantes. ■-"£ (
To which will be added,
. 'j'iie Splendid Pantomime of
DON Juan-,
Or, The LIBERTINE DESTROYED,
. Under the dire&ion of Mr. Sully.
Don Juin, Mr. Sully.
Commandant, Mr. TitnpkifJi.
Lover, Mr. Durang.
Fidierman, Mr.Coffie.
Sai lor, Mr. F. Riek*ts.
And Scaramouch, Mr. Spinn uta.
ift FifMrwoman-, Mr*. Durang, i
id ditto. Miss Rabinfon.
Au4 Oonna A<rfa, Mrs. Spinactita.
An accurate defcriptfon of tlie Pantomime to be had at
the ticket-office.
0" Days of Performance to b« Monday, WedrTtf
d*y». Thur/day and Saturday.
* she Ladies and Gentlemen who feenre feats In
the day tilue, are reqUeftWto attehd punctually at 7,
as the performances are so arranged as to conclude by
10 o'clock—the doors wilf open at 6.
£5" Silver Tickets,-to admit for the fcifon, to be had
by applying to Mr. Hicketts at tfeeP actheon, or u Oel
lers's Hotel.
ne $3* Cox, 7s. 6d.—Pif, is. 9d.
1 '1 ickets to hi had of Mr. Ford, at the ticket office in
Chefnut-ftreet, from ten to three o'clock each' Say.
0 To R S A L E, -
, in A'valuable Plantation,
IN Frederick County, Virginia, bounding early three
' miles on the river Shenandoah, between Aliby's Gap
rf " and Snicker's Ferry ;46 miles from Alexandria, and thfl
:rc like difltr.ee from the Federal City. It contains I+/6
ire acres, 600 of which are cleared, the reDdue finely tin
og bered ; the whole Limeftorieor River Bottom ; abouncb lg
• in fine flreams and springs; above 80 acrt* Wik
«i the river may"Se watered at pleaiure. It is opaSls
ur of being ''divided into Lots of roo aires, with water in
tld #ach, which tenders it peculiarly convenient for grazing
is or (hilture. Its fituaticn for Health or elegant improve -
M '_ ment is not "to be surpassed in any inland country, and if
deemed too large for one Farm, may be divided in'o two
. or three smaller Ones, uniting in common advantages.—
'■* There is now crested on the Eilate a good Mercbant
*l. Mill, with two pair of Clone's (on a large limeflone spring)
Jj. that rents for 466 dollars per ann. and en acother never
£ C sailing-spring a good Saw Mill, with a flutter wheel f
there is plenty of pine timber in the neighboring moun
tain, and a stream 'uffiii-nf for another Mill with four <
" pair of (tones—thefc are adjacent to or imm«diatc!y 0*
o- the banks of the river, the navigation whereof is about
:r, being opened into the Potomak and for more than ICO
cs miles abova the milii. Tbe other improvements on tl,e
Eilate are a new commodious Birn, the loft of which is
capable of containing 1500 buibel ; the tVrelhmg-floor is
feet square, well planked : another (donble) Log
~ Barn, with (beds all around : a Diiliilery, with three
g large Stills, and a Grnnary above that will contain 500
, ' bnlhcls, well covered with Ihingles, and a stream of wa
ter, conduced by troughs, running thro' it; at a smalt
distance is a large Cow-Houf« and StaVe, with stalls for v
ly SJ cows, paved with Pone in the European manner, witil
roopi for above 40 waggon loads of hay: a little further
, is a strong stone-walled Spring-House, completely fitted
for a Dairy. Tui. whole of thef- Aliils and Buildings
n - are at a proper diilance Tr<rm each other, ar.<4 from '.he
Dwelling, which confifis of three commodious Frame
t ( Buildings, with the necessary cnnveniencies. A well in
r closed Garden of the fine ft foil, with a stream of watef
running thro' it 5 two large Apple Orchards; several
good Quarries for building and lime stone; a number of
Out-f!oufe* for Managers, Blacki nith, Cooper, and lodg
ings for Men of Colour add greatly to the cor.veniet
cies and value of this F.ftate.
The Purchafcr, on paying one half the price agreed
for, may be with a considerable credit for
the remainder, and with the Cattle, Horses, Waggons,
Farming Utensils, and Furniture, at a reafonakle valua
tion. For other particulars, application may be made to
the fubferiber on th: Estate, to Thomas Fitzfimons in
Philadelphia, or Matthias Slough, Lancaster.
J. Holicer.
Springftmry, igfhOflober, 1706- —tift tr.w6
FOR SALE,
7 HE SHIP MARY,
SAMUEL PARKER, Master,
-p wo hundred tons burthen. Apply f»
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & C«-
If the MARYIs not fold in a few days, (he will take
' freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
Oilober 31. diot
. [uft arrived, and will this day be lan
-1 ded from on board the brig FAVORITE at Cheftwi
t llreet wharf.
• 25 iTons bejl Riijjia Clean HEMP,
56 Tens old Sable flat IKON,
200 Coils'bett Russia CORDAGE, fi«s,
400 Pieces brown RoSia SHEETINGS,
too Bolts Rufiia DUCK,
240 Pieces Ravens do. 1
so Half-down feather beds, and
A few piecesaflorted DIAPER.
FOR SALE Sr
Joseph Anthony and Co.
r*^ ,c a^ovc mentioned BRIG
r will fail in a few day*, and tak- freight ft*
moderate terms for Boston or Salem,
or caflage, mpply on board or a*
O&oter si. r d
rFor the Gazette of the Unites States.
M. Fehho,
Afcurrilous writer in your Gazette of Tuesday
evening Ml, under the signature of Phocion, asserts
as follow*.
" We are informed by the Newspapers that Ran
" dolph has been to visit Mr. Jefferfon, and has
" announced his determination to feire if ele&ed
•« PrcGdent; he has not yet announced his own
» determination to return to his former Secretary • 1
" ftlip, if his friend should be Prefirleot : bai bis
«« activity in canvnffing for him, leaves no room
" for doubt a« to his wishes and expe&atiens : it
•• is apprehended, however, by fottae of the friends '
" of both these characters, that a late legal call 1
" on sue of them, for the immediate lettlement of
*« some old accounts and balances, will prove highly J
injurious to both." r
The baseness of Phocion's insinuation, Mr. Fen- a
bo, as contained in the above paragraphy will be I
b;ft exposed by publishing Mr. Jefferion's fettle- P
nient of his public accounts as Secretary of State, d
made at the Treasury of the United States, the 30th
of December, 1793> being the day before he reti
red from the public service j for which ptirpofe I £
fend you an authentic copy of that settlement, cer
tified by Mr. Nourfe, Regilter of the Treasury,
fhewiag that the balance of 4786 dollars, 67 cents,
then Rated to be due from Mt. Jefferfon, was on
the said 30th of December 1793, paid into the
Bank of the United States by Mr. Jefferfon, and
pafled to the credit of the Department of Statt
with the bank.
October 30. A SUBSCRIBER.
No. 4, 6.
Treasury Departmsnt, 1
Auditor's office, Dec- aB, 1793. 1
I hive examined and adjusted in account between the U- '
nittd States and homas Jefferfon secretary of ({ate, for mo- 1
niet placed in his hands by direction of the Prefidentof the 1
United States in pursuance of the several asia of Congress '
«' providing the means of intercourse between the United 1
States and foreign nations," and find that he is chargeable on 1
said account, 1
1 o amount of sundry warrants d rawn in his 1
favor for the purposes above-mentioned, «
from the 14th August 1790, to the Ift 2
-August 1793. as per statement Dolls: 113,000 a
I also find that he is entitled to the following credits, viz. *
By David Humphreys for this amount ad- 1
vanced nim on his million to Madrid, as a
per statement - - g+o 2
jjy for this amount paid 2
governor Morris in part for his ferviccs, a
per do. statement - - 1,000 8
By John B. Cutting for this amount remit. 3
ted him, for which he ia accountable, 3
per do. - r . 233 33 3
By W.and J. Willink.M. and J VanStap. 3
horlland Hubbard, agents for the depart- 3
nient of (late at Amsterdam, for this a- 3
mount remitted them as particularized in 31
the statement, - 1,4,680 *-3
By Nathaniel Cutting advanced him on ac. 3I
count of hia miflioato Algiers, perflate- 3(
nient - - - 1,900 4 !
By Jamea Blake advanced him on account 41
of his million to Madrid, per statement 800 4 !
leaving a balance due from th* said Tho- 4;
mas Jefferfon; Esq. and for which he it 44
accountable, being to the c*dit of the 4<
department of state, 1"n the bank of the 4C
United States, the sum of 4,786 67 <"
4*
Dolls. 183,000 4S
.5c
As wifl appear from the statement and vouchers herewith 5'
transmitted for the decision of the comptroller of the irea- 5-
fury thereon. 4S
R. HARRISON, Auditor. 54
To Onvti W#ieotT, Esq. 61
Regifttr of th* Treasury. 4<
Jkzasoky D»rA»TMtNT,
Comptroller's ofnee, Dec. 3®, 179».
Admitted and certiied jc
OLIVER WOLCOTT, ju«. Cnmp. fc,;
To Josim Nourss, Esq. 61
Rcgifterof the Treaiury. Sa
TrEASBKV DIfAITHtST,
Regitter's office, Jan. *1, 1794.
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of the ori-
ginal, on file in this office. 6(
JOSEPH NOURSE, 63
Regifler of the Treasury,
Txiasurt Divartmikt, ®S
Regiftcr's office, Jan. nth, 1794. 7<=
Upon a fitml ailjuHment of the aecount of Thomas Jerter. 1'
on, E'quite {late lecretary of state) as agent for defraying 72
foreign expenditures, by the accounting officers of the treat 73
furyof the United Statea, dated the ißih Dtcember 1703, a 74
balance of four thousand seven hundredandeighty.fi* do]- 75
!«rs ftxty-feven cents was found due by him, wliieh balance 7®
having been paid to hi» (ucceffbr Edmund Randolph, Ifquire, '7
Ido hereby certify that thtj.faid account has beenfinallyclofed' 7 8
on the books of the treasury of the United States. 79
JOSEPH NOURSE, ' 80
■ t __ Regifler of ihc.Trnforv. 81
1 his Day Publiflied, 83
And for Sale by Edmund. M. Blunt, jj 4
At the Newburyport Book-ftor«, State-street, 86
The American Coast Pilot, gs
CONTAINING, 89
THE courses and distances from Boston to all the 9°
principal harbours, eapes and headlands, included be- 9'
tween Pafamaquady and the Capes of Virginia ; with 9 "
dtreflions for failing fcto, and out of, all the principal 93
ports and harbours, with the foundings on the coast ® 4
Also a Tide Table, shewing the time as high water %
at full and change of the moon in all the .bove places they'
together with the courses and rliftance from Cape Cod Jo
and Cape Ann to the Shoal of Georges, and froin said *' Al
Capes out in the South and East Channel, and the set- J°
ting of the enrrent to the Eaflward and Westward— Sal
also, the latitudes and longitudes of the principal har- .
•ours, tapes and headland*, &c. &c. lie. " ut b
By Capt. Lawrence Furlong. ~
Likewise, courses, direikions, distances, &e. Uc
from the Capes of Virginia to the river Miffifirini. f rom
the latest surveys and observations.
Approved by experienced Pilotj nnd Ctafiert. T
Newburyport, O(Sober 15, 1796. ravit!
FOR SALE 7— flo"
About 1,600 acres of Land, th: h
WELL situated, laying on and between Marfc w v,; r
and Bccch Cr*eks, Mifflin county* Pennfylvanit, in p.
four feparatc Patcnti. For terms faie apply to ,
Wm. Blackburn, f be,n '
Woo 64, Stuth
11. mw f tf Piccc
" td-NOTICE. tZ
THE nffice of the secretary of state of the U. and a
nited States, i» remored te the north fide of North mi Si
alley, between Market and Arch, and between sole [
Fifth aad Sixth-streets, the third do«r abote Fifth- Tl
street. 29th Oft«her, 1796. 3 tig ot
Es - Philadelphia, Oftobcr 31.'
From a I. on nor Paper of September 19.
efday is 'ather ftrapge that Buonaparte should not
flerts taken the trouble to inform the Direa o ry of
so important and signal a vitflory as tlytt announced
Ran- '« Garrau's letter ; nor is it less singular, that nei
| has ther the General of Diviflon who acquainted Gar
sifled rau w 'th those brilliant exploits, nor the place fhotild
own have been named, from whcnce he gave this mo- 1
tary- mentous information.
• his ELECTIONSKKITiTG FALSEFIOOD. '
■00m In a ItauHbill ptiblifhed this morning, signed John J
: it Barker, chairman, there is this aflertion, that Mr. »
ends Adams «' avowed, tbat the government ought te J
call have the authority of changing the constitution." r
it of This is fouttdetl on an exTaft said to be taken from
ghly »n anfvver to I'aine's Rights of Man, under the fig-t
nature of Publicola, published twa or three years
Fen- ago in the newspapers. It is the truth, that Mr. I
1 be Adams neither wrote nor dictated a sentence of the t
ttle- publication under the figriatuie of Publicola j nor t
ate, did he ever fee it until it was in print.
[Oth f
eti- AMERICAN PRISONERS.
" e I LIST of Petftns takeh, on board American vefelr, by r
etr . the Algerines, and redeemed by the United States, at
, rv Algiers, the nth July, 1796. ,
>' CONiULAT AMERICAIN. °
"on No ' , ■ N,me '* Stations. Ages. Places they belong to.
the 1 Ifa »e Stephens, Gaptaia, 50 years. Bcfton.
1 Timothy Newman, ditto 36 Newbury.port.
•no 3 Samuel Calder, ditto jg Cape-Ann; ' f r
late 4 William Furnafs, ditto 35 Portfmouth.N H. E
5 James Taylor, dm* ji Newport.
6 Moses Morres, ditto 30 Newbury.port,
7 Michael Smith, ditto 30 Ditto
8 William Penrofe, ditto ja Philadelphis.
9 Andrews Montgomery, Mate, 33 Ditto. £
so George Wells, ditto »t> Virginia,
, 3 . 11 John Walker, ditto S4 Massachusetts;
U- «» Alexander Forfith, ditto 34 Boflon.
no. lj Edward Harwood, ditto 99 Jalctn.
the >4 Benjamin Edward, ditto 10 Newbury.port. R
refs 15 William Dison, ditto 37 New-York.
ited '6 F.dward Smith, ditto >4 Ditto |P'
'on >7 Peter Barry, ditto 30 |f°
18 Peter Ingraham, id Mate, 155 New. York. Ila
■9 John Woodmanfer, ditto *8 Boflon. If~
10 John McFarlirt, ditto 29 Philadelphia. 1
21 Janaes Allen, ditto 43 Ditto. Ico
12 Thomas Billings, Seaman, 17 Boflon, I is,
iz. «3 Richard Harris, ditto 46 Virginia. j B
14 Rasmus Morton, ditto 34 Denmark
t S Benjamin Bifbop, ditto oj Newbury-port I
26 Barry M'Gloft:ring, -ditto 18 Ireland. ' f®f
17 Pedro Lamare, ditto 3a Genoa. Lan
»8 William Dunbar, ditto 28 Philadelphia I rc ,
sg John Edwards, ditto 24 Massachusetts. | a
30 Walter Gt bona, ditto 16 Ditto. 1
31 Thomas Manning, ditto si foitto. I dt
33 32 Beniarain Ober, ditto 18 Ditto. Jon
33 Nathaniel Keen, ditto 21 Ditto. I •
34 Daniel Call, ditto 24 Ditto. ]
35 John Earl. ditto »3 Ditto. I 8,1
36 George Buchansn, ditto s 6 Glafgowr j int
V 37 Hannton Haz«rd, ditto 24 Rhude-Jfiand. 1 nc
-38 Gideon Brown, ditto 13 Ditto.
39 Georg. Tilly, ditto b 4 Ditto. I
40 Abraham Flaggy, ditto 15 Ditto. I ftf
41 Benjamin Church, d tto 22 x Ditto. jUt
42 James Peare, ditto 24 Salem. ' J„„
43 amuel Henry, ditto 26 Virginia. | ,
44 Thomas Fry, ditto jo Ditto. j° e
4.5 Abraham Burrell, ditto » 7 Cape Aim. j tur
4b Thomas Xime.iM, ditto 38 Leghorn I w l,
67 V J oh " P°*> dftto 94 Newbury-port;
4 8 Mofcs Brow®, jun. ditto 20 Ditto ' I
49 John H.gdon, ditto 3,5 Philadelphis. I
_ 50 Jo .1. John, ditto 33 Ditto, ' mo
~'h 5 i JohnDtcka, ditto as Ditto. j ...
•a. 5- We '"y ditto 34 Ditto.
43 Anthony Ruffellj ditto 30 Ditto. j hc . c
54 Kaac B'ooks, ditto 26 Ditto. { wit
6i James Byrnes, diuo 35 New-York. j
Jsnics Fox, ditto 30 Ditto.
47 Benjamin Lunt, ditto a 3 Newbury-pcrt. J
48 Harman Olittck, ditto 26 Holland. J
59 J ol »n Petcrfon, ditto 2» Ditto.
60 Jdcob Shoemaker, ditto 21 Ditto.
61 Cornelius Faudum, ditto sS Ditto.
«2 Martin Defwart, ditto 2J Ditto" I '
63 Cornelius Wetterdum, ditto 3 s Ditto! ] heri
64 Peter Vandertorn, • ditto 30 Dittos I c
ri. 6 5 JohnFs Ikard, ditto si Ditto I 01
66 Peter Bryer, ditto 26 Ditto' j Ehl
67 John Fs. Rickaway, ditto 29 Ditto. 1 £
68 John Sutton, ditto 36 Philadelphia. I«f <
69 John Fitfgerald, ditto 24 Ditto. |
H. 70 Charles Smith, ditto ,9 Virginia. j
:r . 7 , rhomas Buddea, ditto *6 Philadelphia. I P a ss
"S 7Z .T I ', " 1 *7 Rhoda-Ifland. I I
I 3 Thn-» * r j"' 0 30 Philadelphis. j N cv
a 74 Thomas Burgess, ditto so Virfcini, |
>1- 11 ditto *3 Philadelphia. 2
ce 16 Bar holemea Gtzan, dme 38 Genoa. I fpol
re > " P H p cf '' ditto 39 Boston. j ftcri
" d 70 fohn Pamnlm j'"" H ConneSicut. j r
79 John Pamplm, dttto 33 New.York. ]
80 John Lemman, eJ itlo Vireinia I
81 George Ofborne, ditto 1, Ireland." I
82 James Mule, ditto 3' Ditto c.i •
: c.s" wi
85 John Cooper, Seaman, Ditto
Hti Hans Christian, Ditto. Sweden I V
87 Joseph Rogers, v Ditto. Newhur'v Tn
18 Samuel E. Baily, Captain, n'uo Iflat
89 William Wallace, Ditto. 4 g . Norfolk. Tirgiais. I
c 90 Joseph Keith, Mate, ; 5 Waterford I
9' Nicholas Hsrtford, Seaman, 30 N. Hampshire,
h 9 " R " re ' Duto - 5* Cape-Ann, Ani
g3 Abraham Simoas, Ditto. *4 Ditto I
_ 94 J° hn Thoma., Ditto. a 7 Nantucket.
9J Sipes Jackson, Ditto. 28 New-York
r N. B. The 83 fir ft mentioned art u Marfcillea", where (
, they arc performing quarantine, j
} „ i c ! fcph In S" h " m - J°J?n Cooper, and Haas «hriflis», left I <
J at Algiers with the Consul. j
Joi'eph Rogers, died alter the redemption.
" ThT, E " y ' ey ' died ° n ,hc Marfeillts.
- JKaJisSf "*«• <•" <- «»,„ J h -
M.»„, ~s AJS J- E - moontflobens.
1 Gdober 17. I 4;
INTERPI/iL IMPROVEMENTS. JI
ravidlv VnA* an<i IOCkS on . the Con advance
cft-rjjr rfg
Blodfet's canal, called, at Amofkiegc fall,, J n
thefUt. of NewHampftire, open, L ea
1 Patucke't fiSr' ' Mes " naI ' "
. Blodget'» canal was so near
being completed thirty dayt ag 9 , that fifty tens ef "
timber passed through it. This great and arduous 5
dim! and*?' £ CBt r t,nK lar « c rock, » »*king (
dam. and locks of aear a mile ia length, graduallf I
fSahif 7 T' beCn P erforined >"two years 1
and a half, under the direflioa and at the ex L ire 1
•f Samue Elodg.t, esq. of Haverhill, wh « u'tbe )
sole proprietar thereof. C
vigour, our vicilii, y with
& ' OA
BY THiS DAY's MAILS.
NEW-YORkTOflobcr lg.
d not Extra® of a letter from a refpeflable house in Am
ry of iterdam, to their correspondents in thia city, da
inced ted September 19, 1796.
t nei The news »f the day i», that the KING of
Gar- PRUSSIA had declaiecj WAR against the EM
lould PEROR of GERMANY—that hw troops are
i mo- marching—and that likefy the ports of Hambn' "h 1
ar.d Errtbden wilt be (hut against Bririfh vrfTcla.'to '
oblige that court to inter into terras of psacs. '
John How far the news is certain, we cannot fay—but
Mr, we arc certainly cs» the Ivs f '
it tc Peace daes not take place soon, War is likely to
on." rage with redoubled aaimofity.
from From the Afortiin* Chrenkle.
-fiR' 1 LONDON, September \g,
,-ears A Courier from Paris has been exported finee
Mr. Friday Mat the house of Count Wedei Yarlfberg,
the the Damfli Minifler, who, as we have already fta
nor ted, has sent to the executive directory for a pafT
port for an English Envoy to go to Pa, is. The q
Courier was not returned at to ./clock kit night,
nor lias any paffpor' been rcrrived. It is necefl?.-
'» b «7 to give the public this information.
.«t It ii very generally believed that a treaty has
been lately into between France and Pruf
gto W thc port of HamKirgh is ceded to his
• ' majesty.
irt. r 1 h " e 18 mention made in private letters "
from Hamburgh, of the King of Prussia and the
V.H. Empreli of Russia, not being on the beli footing. T
BOSI ON, Odtober 20.
important n ,
Extrsfk of a letter from a refpefhble mercantile «
, houl< ln Ca^ l2 ' t0 a correspondent here, fr
, August 20.
■t R , x r»j" has already got up f rom J0 2
<• R. to 64 «66 per fan eg. and as "the « inter *
preaches must go much higher ; wehave not there- tt
fore a doubt, but good American wheat, parties- th
larly the wh.te fort, will readily fell k.r R. 60 per ftl
taneg,%r upwards, during the winter : and what >f
contributes eventually to an advance on that aiticle,
I is, the very few fuppliej that can be expected from vrl
I j> uT* °. W ' lo lhe in that country,
t. H " d * 11 /° rei g" navigation being prohibited to molt
of those ports. Five famgs arc equal to 8 bushels,
and 20 Re make one Mexican dollar of your cur
rency. We have had lately some importations of
flour from England and Fra-ce, which fold at fun- _
dry prices, from j 7 to 20 dollar. per bbl. of Spain,
lon board. During the present troubles, as besides
I the embarrafiments of the court of Barbary, already •«
I alluded to our fuppheS from Sicily will be totally
1 intercepted by the Eaglilh fleet in the Med,terra'- wa
nean, who detain all veflelsgoing to or failing from J
the ports of Italy, since they have got into the pof.
I ftffioh of the French. Some small parcels of rice, Im
lately imported here, have fold at 3 dls. per quintal)
on board j but this price Vs-e-confider two high to
j be supported, unless we should again be unfor
tritely .nrolreo ,n a war with England, of
which mere arc actually Very strong apprehen
sions ; fticb an event woujd at once cauft an ad
vance on all your products here, and in none
more thau in fiflt. .TiitoAu.l price of slaves is 140
to i2ocl on board, and bees wax, at 72 per qaint.
beef and pork would answer here, iu cafe of a war
j with England." (
j GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES MARINE LIST.
P ni l, A D F. L P II r~4, Qftobcr 3,.
I The (hip Two Friends, capt. Hathaway arrived
j here the 29th i,ift. from Hamburgh. She failed
J rom the Elbe the 21 ft irjft. i n company wi:h the
I fchtcrprize, Nori ja for this port. r
Sept. 8, arrived at Hamburgh, (hip Minerva Th
?ir-n r Calcutta. 1 ith, fcip Pcrfeverance, fe
"at'™;; ° t f" l * idp, " rf '' m £
171 h, in the entrance of the Britiflt channel,
spoke the brig Peggy, from Philadelphia to Am '
J ftcrdam, out 57 days. |
I In tjie Two Fricrtds came 40 -paffengeri. 16
j Charleston, 0&. ii. 3<
I • O >«TIRI».
ohip South Carolina, Carman, Philadelphia
I Brig Lucy. Seaward, Bourdeaux
Lacy, Rust, ,
N " cf ' A »-
To-Morrow will be published, ai
And fold by JOHN ORMROD, No. 4 *Chcfnu -fl'eet, S . nin "
(Price tncfiAlcenth tf a Dtlltr.) U ckc
, A P O£ M o 0 ,,":
e I On reading the PmstDtN-r's Addrefi P
WITH A SKETCH OF THE V,r
t CHARACTER or A CANDIDATE, Jam
I „ »• a tux -i,
presidency. £ tt
• el v gam littlc , P " eMispr 'n"d'n a form to be bound
John Ormrod!'° INT * k™" by T»
Ofioher 31. - ? b,v<
— i«g o
norf °lk, S
' • Olipe Baancjj,
'■ Povrer » Etheridre, Matter.
Sa«w * pp,y 10
'I. OflaWai.
. I ir '• j* ll ■ * — d ■
J u st Imported,
• j Tin Plates In boiet >
Sheet and bar Lead ?
Shot—all sizes, patent and oommon A !
Copper bottoms and fticets
Englift Ihoes and boots in cases k 2° a#r
tey*w;. 1
Wool Caids , ' hed, «
Gold Watches. * b "J
and W(
For Sale by on n,>
0 , f Simon Walker, il , lbl
mwfln > Dock-areet, N p"i|
=*| wanted,
as COOK, in* private flmily, a woman ot good ehara 0 ;
and WHo cart be well recobmiended.
Enquire of the Primer.
October 34 • d 7 t.
Am- — : -lt
•,da- Three 100 dollar Not s.
WERE LOST This Ray, about 12 o'cln V
of One Hundred Dollar Bank Notei of the of
EM- Pennsylvania, between the Banks of Penufyt/dnfa ani'
>3 are North-America, in the alley thit leads into Cliefc,
n■ th street, or in Chefnut-ftreet. .V'hotver will
la, 'to t ' iem t0 No. 48 Chefnut-ftreet, fhsll be !i3adforacly re
r' warded. October 19. 3 t
~ b "j. Best Boston & Nova-Scotia Mackaird,
tQ Excellent Halifax Salmon in bbJs.
47 bbls. prime Coffee,
Best Boßon Beef,
Codtilh in bds.
Spetrtnceti Candlej,
'incc p . . _
Spermaceti, and / „ , _
' C ft r f_' Northern j©l L.
pasT Mould and dipt, taiioW candles, of & superior
The Vfl- . .. r
„u "■ few boxes excellent brown f©apj
6 Bales of Corks.
40 Pipes excellent Lilbon Wine.
A few sacks of Feathers.
Has A few bales India Muslins.
FOR SALE BT
>hil JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
Oflobffr 31. j
7h« Sale by Au&ion. '
ijig,
To he fold onSaturday evening tbp sth of November, at
7 o'clock, P. M. at the Merchant*' Coffee House.
TWO three story brick house» with convenient kitch ns
t north Itde ef Market,between Seventh andEighth-ftreets,
Itile each hoiii'e with the puviledge of an alley is 16 X-1 lett
front ; the lot is >56 in depth
One two .«ury brick Jioufe in Zs*e-ftteet, common!*
called Sugar allejr. The houfct ii 16 i-a front,.onfaiii
5° alley, with a good kitchen ; the lot is 90 feet in depth,
ap- One vacant lot,adjoining the md house, in SSune-ilriet,
ere- 16 i-2 feet.front, and 90 feet deep ; at the end of 90 feet
ic«. ths fa,d lot widens 33 !cet, and runs back of the Marker
ftreet lots 111 feet, 33 feet wide.
r One two ftor; brick hotfe :l n d kitchen in Zane-ftr«t,
" I-*feet front; the lot 45 feet in depth.
L '4s acres of excellent meadttw land in Greenwich i
om which will be fold either by small parcels or 12 acre lots.
tr 50 tons of excellent upland iay. Enquire of
10 ft HENRY SECKEL,
, GEORGE COOPFR,
e,s > HENRY SHE AFF
ABRAHAM WILT, or
, EDWARD fOX, Au&iopter.
ji M _ Prober 29.
i>n, Washington Lottery.
CS it' '' e Da V s Drawing are arrived at the
l( jy office No. «47, Chefnut-ftreet.
illv PfiiJes in the above Lottery arc exchanged for tickets
warranted undrawn.
° a " *7- ttii
Dm • , »
of - A few Pipes of Wine,
ce, Imported in the brig FAME, from Madeira,'to be fold
■I. by MORDECAI L£wh,
to Who has also to of on reasonable terms
IRISH LINENS, well .Carted
of BANDANNA HANDKERCHIEFS
n _ WIDE NANKEfeNS
, COSSAS AND lUFTAS
HAVENS DUCK
ne DIAPERS
so QUICK SILVER
it. CHINA
ar ROLL BRIMSTONE, &c.
OtSlober in, .
' tivfrm
By Authority*
Sl buy Ik ill Bridge Lottery*
;d SoU % WILLIAM BLACKBURN \ No. 64,
>( j Stutb SecondJlreet.
Ie SCHEME of a LOTTERY
for raising Sixty Thousand Dollars, arre,ablv to an Aft «F
,a emon CB, f flat T ,°; p »» r y"»». X*l,ft
c . bu ' Wln S => Stone Bridge over V River
31 Berks " B ° roUgh of Re,di "ff. in the County of
> Prize as 40.®0e Dollars »
»f 1 do. of to,ooo do. . *°tOoi»
3 do. »f 5 ,00e, do. . J°' c " >a
1 4 do. of s,ooo do. . 5 °°®
*0 do. of t, oao do. . . „ B,oo ®
»- 39 do. of ce* do. . * 2 P,00»
#<S do. of too do. . * 'S-i o ®
«®o do. of lea do. . "
3«o do. of do. - . *
1 d°' of 5«o do. to be paid the poflef- > ,s '° P<>
for ef thefirft drawn 110. \
a 5 °0' of 3' o ® 9 do. to be paid poflefTors >
X . , . of the five last drawn nos < 'i* oo ®
§>4®o do* • 9
n * • • i4»»oo*
' «I*. Jr«
tnilhed, \ipon the demaod of a pofTefior »f a * w '"g **
ticket, fubjea to a deduct.on of
y'rWi''" f'" r
Jcftph Hujltr J* mcs D t Thomas B
t °"°' John Keim > D «"M CraeA
Selajhan Mtiter i QoßiMissiONms.
Reading, May the 9th, 1796.
is?®
October 7.
■• - , Saw tf
University of Pennsylvania, .
Ofiober 5, tyo6.
in NovemW. ilLeftUresW,li C ° mmenCt the firft Monday
1— taW3w
F O R S A L E.
A PLANTATION.
ABOUT i* miles fronitjiis City, situate In U'
Township, Montgomery-County - eontJ
70 asres, a new stone house, two fto'ies hi»b nui <-
floor, are places in each, , lton e khehen fnd ft ™'r "
house, over an excellent fprin® of watar a t A"" 5
iheds, b,rracks, Ac. A large apple orchard .n]™ 1 • "
Other fruit, about i« «rei of rood a * arlcivo
and wood fufficient for fire.anf
-.Jft be had the tft of April next °p P s
will be taken in exchange, or Mo>-. R ' 1S m/mJCHOI 'SO v- ?
Notes in payment. Enouict »>, v . NICHOLSO >
Philadelphia,Robert Smith & Co.
No. 58, South Front-Jlrecty
v Have received by the late arrivals fr©m London, Liver
pool, and Hu ! l, and by the Ohi® arrived at N.York
from Glasgow,
A large & general afibrtment of Goods,
Suitable for the Seafon y confining of
Duffle, Point and Rose Checks, in imall packages
Blankets Oftnaburgß and Brown Hol-
White, Red, and Yellow lands
Flannel Brown and white Russia
Socking and other Baizes Sheetings eh
Second and coarse Cloths Drillings and Diapers
Plain and mixed CafiimcJres Calicoes and Chintzes
Plain, twilled, and striped Jaconet and' Book Muslins
1 Coatings Do. do. Tamboured
Plains, Kerl'eys, and Half- Do. do Handkerchiefs
thicks Printed linen nd cheek d«.
W}«:te & spotted Swanskins Romal and
"Lainet and fwanfdown veil M"uflin and Chintz Shawls
Shapes Bed Ticks
Ciirpets and Carpeting Table Cloths
Caliimncocs And Durants Laccs and Edgings
Moreens and Taboreens Fashionable Ritfbons
"[oar.s Spinning and Crapes Do Hats and Bonnets
Camblets and Wildbores C<Hten 5c Worded Hoiiery
Sombazeens & Bombazets Gloves and Mitts J 1
R.srinets and Shalloons White 81 coloured Threads
Plain, Genoa and printed Italian Sewing Silks
Velverets & Thicksets Ivory and Horn Combs
7-8, 4-4, and Cotton Tapes, Bindings, Pins, &c. L
They have on hand a large aflortment of India Muslins ki
and Calicoes, black and coloured Persians, Bandanno and
Puliicat Handkerchiefs, tScc. and a -quantity of Nuances io
and Mace.
October 17. nrwfim
Imported .in the late arrivals,
And to be Sold by
JACOB PARKE,
Nofth fide of High-street, 'Philadelphia, V
A GENERAL ASSORTMENT OF
ironmongery, Cutlery, Sadlery, &c.
AMONGST WHICH AR.F.
SMITHS' Anvils, Vjces ; and Files;, Saw-mill, Crofa
cut, Hand, and other Saws; Carpenters' Planes, Chisels,
and other Tobls; Carving Chisels and Gorges; Locks,
Hinges, Bolts and Latches; Nails, SpHgs, Tacks, and
Screws; Frying-Pans; Smoothing-Irotas; Shovels and
Tongs ; Coffee Mills; Candlesticks ; Snuffers; Warming-
Pans; Table Knives and Forks ; Riding Whips ; Bar
low Pen, and other Pocket Knives; Razors; ScilTars ;
Needles; Ivory and Horn Combs; best Kirby Filh
Hooks; brass Cabinet Furniture; Waggon Boxes; Sheet r
Brass; plated and tin'd Bridle Bits and Stirrups ; ditto
Baddie Nail* ; Girth and Straining Webbs ,* —with moil
kinds of Ironmongery, Cutlery, Sadlery, Brass Wares,
&c. &c. '
O&eber 24. mwf6w
Lottery and Broker's Office,
A r o. 64, South Second street.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. a, for Tale—a
Che k Book for exaniihation—and prizes paid in '
the late lottery.
\ Books kept for examination and registering, for F
the City of Washington, No. z, and Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information where
tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all thf. prizes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
examination. si
The fubferiber solicits the application of the public 1
and his friends, who wife to purchase or fell Bank Stock, a
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands, t
&c. or to obtain money on deposit of property e:
%* Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
sale at Ten Dollers. each, which will be drawn early in c
the Spring. -C
Wm. Blackburn. c
Philadelphia, August 18, 1796,' mth
Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE. «
No. 63 South Third ilreet,eppofite the national new Bank. ®
SAMUEL M FR UNCES and JOHN VAN REED,
have entered into co-partnerfliip, under the firm of P
FR 'UNCES & VAN REED r in the bufmefs of Brokers, "
Conveyancers and Commiflion merchants. They buy and ™
fell on commiflion every species' of dock, notes of hand, v
bills of exchange, hcufes and lands, &c.
Money procured on deposits, &c. &c. all kinds cf "
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatness and v
dispatch; accounts'adjufted, and books fettled, in the
most correal manner. Conllant attendance will be given. a
Tney solicit a Ihare of the public favor ; they are deter- "
mined to endeavour to deserve it. n
~N. B. The utmost secrecy observed.
SAMUEIi M. FRAUtfCES, , *
JOHN VAN REED. «'
Philad. Aiiguft 27, X7OQ- m&wtf I
Loft Last Evening, *
At Ricketts's Amphitheatre, (supposed to be taken by )'
some villain out of a gentleman's pocket)
A red Morocco-Leather POCKET-BOOK, a
Cintaining about 185 dollars in bank botes; three rrotrs
of hand of Rofs and tiifnfon, No. 304, 305 and 306, da- '
ted 12th lift August, payable 60 days after dat-c, to the
order of Paul Siemen, together for JISO dollars; an ordsr ''
of Mrs. Ann 1\ acpherfon, from Paul Siemen, on Lach- F
!in Mac Neal, Esq. at Port-au-Prince,for 100 dollars • be- ''
fides fcveral letters and papers of no use but to the proprie- t!
tor. The tiotes of hand and order are without endorse- v
Jnent. EIGHTY DOLLARS REWARD is offered to 2
any pcrfon who will discover and secure the thief, and
FORTY DOLLARS for 6nly bringing the above meati
oned notes and papers at No. 129, Corner of Front and
Mulberry fleets. d o<ft. it.
T.o be Rented,
A Small and Convenient BREWERY, at '
MorrisVi'le, oppyite Trenton.
ALL the Apparatus for Brewing new and in good 1
repair : A number of Barrels and Half Barrels will (
«lfo be rented. Poffirffion may be; had at any time. *
Enquire of Mr. Garrett Cottringer in Philadelphia,
or Mr. "Robert Morris, inn. or Daniel Mun it Morris- '
Vilie. It
C.tobcr jo, 1796* rt'li&stw |
*— —— 1 1
Mr. RICKETTS ]
BEGS leave to inform the Ladies and Gentlemen, that i
he will open his RIDING SCHOOL on the Ift of Nov.
for the of Ladies and Gentlemen it the ele- 1
gaut aeeompliftiment of riding and managing their hoTfes I
'.Vl'll cafe to thcmfelves.
Mr. Rickctu has well tinned Horses for the sccom- 1
modation of 1.- lit 3 and .Gentleir en for exercise, to pay
mtnthly. Pupils <0 pay by the jason, or by the lelfon.
Huifci the boid <r field. ,
Oct#ber 14. - d
__ 1 , .■ — —
WANT*, f.Kßticn as CLERK, in a mercantilehoufe
in a young man who can be wrll recom
mended : he is well acquainted with book-keeping, mid
writes a good hand. Enquire of the editor of the Ga
zette of the United State*.
Oitober J3.
.. >
Philip Nicklin & Co. ]
HAVE FOR SJLIi,
Souchong
Hyson Skin )
Young Ilyfon > FRESH TEAS
Hyson and \ 1
Irbperiil
Yellow Nankeens
China Ware, aflorted in Boxea and Cheftt
Quicksilver _ . '
Baadanno Handkerchiefs of excellent quality in
6hefts
London Market MADEIRA WINb
London particular ?■ in pipes, hogfbeads, £c
' New-York Market ) quarter ca&s
Teneriffe Wine in pipes and hogikeaijt
Sugar Candy bythe B&x
Sai! Canvas No, laß
Lead in sheets
3 CafitS of CutleryafTorte'd
A few cheftsof Manchester Goods, afTortcd t.lick
fets, cords, striped Nariktcns, &c.
3 Small packages of black fewing-*filks
H Tierces Virginia Snake-root.
Y Nails aflbrted in casks
July 18. mwßcf
Washington Lottery.
The 3ad and 33d days' drawing of the Wa)hi«gton
c. Lottery, No.' s, are received at the office No. 134, Mar
is ket-ftreet, where tickets may be examined,
d N. B. Information given where tickets in all the other
;s lotteries may be procured.
Prober zj, 1796.
FOR SAL E.
PORT WINE, and
HOLLANti GIN, of thefirft qualities in Pipe?.
FRAUNCES and VAN REED,
Brokers and Commiflion Merchants, No. 63,50. 3d St.
Who discount approved NOTES of hand.
N. B. An APPRENTICE Wanted.
, September 14. mitff
/• — '■! 1 1 1 ■ '■ i~'l 1 " ■
To be Sold,
ls ' The Time of a smart, active Negro Lad,
Who has Eleven years to serve.
Enquire at NB. 58, South Front-ftrcet.
T . Oflober 18. §_
r - THIS DAT PUBLISHED,
; ; By J. ORMROD, No. 41, Chefnut-fttset,
t (Price 12 1-2 Cents)
<° The President's Address
3 To the People of the United States,
Announcing his intention of retiring from public life
abthe expiration of the present constitutional term sf
— priSdcncy.
September 40. d
Valuable Real Estate,
i„ For sale at Aucl\on by Casper Thiell, of Hamburg,
late the property sf "fames and William Kinntar.
or For sale by public anction, on the 9th day of November
:s, nextenfuing, at the sign of Gen. Wafliiagton, Wood's
re tavern, borough of Reading, Berks county, the folUw
m ing real estate, viz.
v- A TRAGTof land containing 465 acres with
or 1 Xi. allowance for roads, called the Purchase,
fiuated in Brunfwick townlhip, Berks county, patented,
lie ,Bth o' Jan. 1788 This trait, of which about 15 acres
k, are cleared, is of good foil, situated on the or
Is, Little Schuylkill, well watered and timbered, on which is
ere&ed a good log dwelling house and liable.
or No. 2. A trait of unimproved lend, containing 184 S
in cres, with allowance, &c. called Hopewell, patented aßth
Q&ober, 1790, situated in Brunf.vick townfkip, Berks
county, foil good
No! 3. A trait of unimproved land, containing 3*76 a-
cres with allowance, &c. called Hilliburg, patented »Bth
Oiftober 1790, situation, &c. as No, a.
No. 4. A tract «f unimproved land, containing 388 a
cres, with allowance, &c. patented 18th of OAober, 178*.
situation, &c. as No. » and 3.
p No. 5. A trafi of land, containing 168 acres, and 51
of perches, with allowance, &f . situated in Brunfwick
r< (hip, Berks county,.on Torrtagua, Or little Schuylkill, 5
miles above the town »f Hamburg,on which is erecSed a
d well fmiflied two story squared log dwelling house, n '
' feet by 3j, within the Pittance offrbo percheifrem a forge,
c f with the advantage of a ferry and public house; these ad-*
vantages render this trafl very valuable.
h e No 16. A town lot in Hamburg, enclofei!with a ]Soft
, n and rail, or board fence, containing in front, 60 feet, and
. r . in depth iße feet, fubjeit to a ground rent of 7/6 per an
nnm.
No. 17. A town lot in Hamburg, enclofedasSo 16,t0
whichit adjoins, tiring of the fame dimensions, and fubjeit
to the fame ground rent, on which N ere&ed a log stable,
x 6 by':B feet .
~ No. 18. A town lot in Hamburg, adjoining to No. 17,
a eorner lot, fronting on Main and Schuylkill streets, di
m.nfions the fame as No. 16 and above del'cribed, sub-
Ij.. je<S to lofb per annam ground rent. On this lot is es>
' edted a large 2 story dwelling house, 45 feet front 011 Main
street, by 34 feet in depth on Schiylkill street, pl'eafantly
and advantageduily situated for a (tore.
N. B. The above deferred three town lots will be fold
[ a _ separately or together, as may best foit the purchasers.
Conditions of sale—One third of the purchase money
[ sr to be paid to the subscribers, or either ef them ia Philadel
phia, at or b«jf ore the expifation of one month fr®m the
lt> day of sale, when a deed fef conveyance wiU.be executed ;
; e . the relMue payable in 2 equalpayments, at 6 and 12 months
with interefr, the payment whereof to be feeured by moct
to £ a £ e ' 9R t ' le freniifes. '
pd Jam: Hendcrfon, 1 Afr.gneest.
si- Frederick MonimolTtn, I the estate of
Thomas Rogers, f James 4c Wm.
_ Jefeph D. Drinker, .J Kinnsar.
September 16. m & th.
al STOP THE THIEVES!!!
LAST Wednesday I:voting, October 19, between the
od heurtof 7 aod leo'clock, the bed room of Mr. Ricketts i*
•ill O'Eller'shotel was entered, either by means of faffe keys,
ie< orat the window, by some villain or villains, who must have
| a been acquainted with the situation of the house (« the door
: ' was found locked after they had committed the theft) who
took away from amongst several trunks, "ONE which con
ttioed a valuable part of Mr. Rickett's property, but of which
he is not yet able to ascertain the contents particularly. As
— ter bringing the said trunk away, and emptying it of up
wards ef a thousand dollars in cafo and bank notes, the vil
lains left k behind the circus, during the time that the per-
formances of the evening were going forward
ov. It is earr.eflly requested, that all tavern«keeper» on the fiage
le. roads, and the ferry houses, at well asallcivil officers, may
■fes be watchful in lecurihg suspicious persons, who may have a
redundance of cafhj which their appearancc would by no
m _ means befpcaFtFem to be possessed of.
say One Hundred Dollars Reward
0D - Will be given for securing the thief or thieves, and a fur
ther reward for securing them with the property.
Oft, ti. * J
To be disposed of,
>m- 'T'HE time of a healthy NEGRO WOMAN, who
md J- has between f«ur and five years to serve: She
3a- can be recommended for her sobriety and honesty For
particulars eaquirs at ij», Chefnwt-fireet.
FOR S 4 L E,
A. very Valuable imitate,
CALLED T IVIT TENH AM, fitusre in the
township of Upper Derby, and county of Delaware
7 ,-a miles frorf Phiiad -lphia, and half a mile from the
new Western road! containing »3* 2CKS of »' c^ llen - lan '
4 c of which aie good.watered meadow, 90 of prime weod
land, andthereit arable of the firft quality. are
on the preitnfe a good two story brick house, witfi 4 toom ®
on a floor, and ceilars under the whole, with a pump-well
c f excellent water in front; a large frame tarn, Italics,,
and other convenient buildings; a fmoß*-ho»fe aTid itone,
lpring-houfe ; twp gqod'apgjk orchards, mdlone ps peacft
cs. The fields are all in clover, except those uftmeciately
under tillage, and areTo laid out as to have the advantage
of water in each of them, which renders it peculiarly con
venient for grazing. . ,
The situation is pleafantandhcalthy, and from the high
cultivation of the land, the' good'p-eighbourhood, and the
vicinity to the city, it is very suitable for a.gentleman s
coufetry feat. „ . .TI ■
The foregoing is part of the estate «f Jacob Harman,
deceased, And offered for fa'e by .
Mordecai Lewis,
Ocft.3l. law Surviving Executor.
. WANTE D,
A WOMAN who is capable of taking care of a Child
and who will occalionally do other ftrvicc in a imall fa
mily ; a good charter will be necessary. Apply at
No. 109, Spruce-street. OS. 47. 6
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
By Benjamin Davies,
No. 68, High-Jircet,
The American Repository of ufeful
information, for 1797*
CONTAINING,
A Calendar for ttye year
A complete Regilter of the Executive, Legiflatnte,
and Judic'ary Officers of the Oeneral Government.
A Lift of the Military Forces of the United States.
Poft-Office Eftablilhment —times of receiving and
elofing the Mails at Philadelphia.
The poll roads and towns, and their diftancea
Times of holding the Supreme, Circuit And Diftrift
Courts.
A table of Impost duties, alphabetically arranged.
A lift of the custom-house officers and their fees.
Rules for reducing the currencies of the ieveral
states into one another, arid all of them into the mo
ney »f the United States.
Ufeful tables of the value of pounds, fhitiirigs and
pence, in dollars and cents, <
A register of the officers of the civil government of
Pennsylvania.
A gardiner's calendar for Pennsylvania.
And a great variety of other articles of ufeful informa
tion. Embelliihed with twelve elegant vignettes, an en
graved title-page and frontispiece,—making together, a I
haadfome, as well as very ufeful, little pocket companion.
O(Sober so. »a;wtf
'■m_ ■ : i
New Hat and Hosiery Store,
Wholesale, and Retail,
By WILLIAM M'DOUGALL,
No. 134, Market Strtct, yi door from the corner
of Fourth, South Side.
Mens* Black American and Englih Hats, of various ijual- c
ities and prices;
Ditto Drabs and Green-unders.
Ladie4* ditto black
And a large aflbrtmcnt of fancy ditto
Coloured Beavers
With a great variety of elegant and faihidnable trim
mings' &c.
Yoifch's black and drab coloured ditto.
Children's fahcy ditto
All kinds of silk, silk and cotton, cotton and thread hcfc '
Knit coloured Pantaloons
Ditto Drawers A
Ditto Breeches Patterns
Silk Gloves *
Knotted, coloured cotton.
A quantity of mending cotton,forted colours. 1
N. B. The hatsfinifhed in the newest fafhoH.
_ >7' eodim, J
Samuel Richardet
t> ESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen '
V Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY <
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEE HOUSE in the r
city of Philadelphia; f
The Sublcription Room vrill be furniihed "With all the <
daily papers publiftied in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos
ton, Baltimore, together with thole of the principal com
mercial cities of Europe-^—They will be regularly filed 4
and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a Variety
of French Liquors; together with the usual refrejhments,
will as ail times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
the choicest cf Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the most
approved Malt Liquors front London and other breweries.
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and earlieii
produ&ions of the Season. t
Large and small Parties, or Tingle Gentlemen, may be ;
accommodated with Breakfalls, Dinners, or Suppers, at t
hours most convenient to themfeives—a cold Collation is
regwlarly kept for ccaivenicncy, the Bill of Fare to be had
at the bar.
The Lodging Roonswill be completely furniihed, and
the utraoil attention paid to cleaolinefs, and every other
requisite.
Samuel Ric* ardet will be happy to receive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfelf that nothing on his part fhali be wanting topre
forve that patronage with which he has,been so diftineuifh
inglv Honored.
Philadelphia, April 19. ' mw f
Watson's Answer U Gibbon.
JUST RECEIVED,
And for fiile by J. ORMROD, No. 41, Chefmrt-ltreet,
Apology sos-Christianity,
In a ferie* of Letters, addrejfed tt
Edward Gibbon, Es<^.
Author of the History of the Decline and F*U of the
Roman Empire:
Br R. WATSON, d. d. f. r. s. B'iftiop of Landaff.
(Price 7s cents bound.)
Watson's Anfwcr to Paine,
To be had at the sam place.
The enemies of Religion are awake ! Let net her
r nends Jleep.
—*' mw&ftf
Benjamin and Jacob Johnson,
. , No - M7> Market-street,
Have received by the last arrivals from Liverpool and
Hull,
„ r ,■?*"! S* nera l a/fortment of DRY GOODS,
Well suited to the approaching season, which they will
o* I tCrn " by f iCte package. t
Octfber 14. taw4w
70,000 Pieces Nankeens,
Of the btji quality and on reasonable tdrms y
FOR SALE BY
Philip Nicklin ly Co.
■Aaguft 26. dtf
For Sale,
AThree-ftory BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnur
street, between Front anil Second flr«ets, in which
Meflr?. James Calbraith & Co. have for many year. an,.
bow do) carried on business.
Poflefiion will be given in one month, or sooner.
For termt apply to WILLIAM BELL, or
HE CTOB^CALmAIXH.
April 31, g
Treasury Department,
September 28, 1796.
NOTICE is hereby given, that proposals will he re
ceived at the office of the Secretary of the Treasury
until the expiration of the firft day of March nex: en.
suing, for thcfupply of all rations which riiay lie required
for the use of the United States, from the firft day of
June, 1797, to the thirty-firll day of 1798, both
days inclusive, at the places and within the diftrkh lure
after mentioned, viz. At Ofwego; at Niagara; at
Pjcfque lfle; at Sandufky Lake, and on Sandufky
River; at Detroit; at Michilimackinac; at Fort-Frank
lin; at Pittsburgh ; at Cincinnati; at Fort-vH*railtnn •
at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-Jefferfon ; at Grenville; at
Picque Town and Loraniies Store; at Fort Adams; at
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance; at any place below Fort
Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Eric; at Fort
Steuben ; at Fort Maltac ; at any place from Fort Mafiac
to the south boundary of the United States 011 the river
Miffifippi; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiatanon.
If supplies lhall be required lor any polls or places not
mentioned in this notice; all such supplies fhUl be fur
ni&ed at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
polls before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed on
between the United States and the Contrador.
The rations to be fupplicd are to confitt of the fol
lowing articles, viz.
One pound two ounces of brtad or flour.
One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounces of
pork or bacon.
Half a gill of ram, brandy or wKifeey.
One quart and half a pint of fafc."N
Two quarts of Vinegar, / • .
Two ponq3s~ef Soap, > per hundred rations
One pound of Candles, 3
Tne rations are to.be furnifhed in such quantities, as that
{here lhall at all times during the said term, be fuffiejent
for the eonfumption of the troops at Michilimackinac, De
troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, for the term of fix month:, in
advance, ind at each of the other polls, for the term of
at lead three months in advance, in good and wholesome
provisions, if the fame lhall be required. It is to be un
derstood, that the Contra&or is to beat the exjience and
rife of iffuirg the fuppliis to the troops at «ach poll, and
that all losses sustained by the depredations of an enemy, or
by means of the troops of the United States, lhall be paid
for at the price of the articles captured or deflroycd, on
the Jepofitions of two or taore perl'oiis of creditable cha
rade™, and the ccrtificcte of a commiffioncd officer, a£-
certaining the circumllances of the loss, and the amount
ofths ai tides for which compensation fbail be claimed
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
. . Secretary of the Treasury.
Lottery
FOR railing fix thon&nd fix hundred ihd Yjxty-feveil
dollars and fifty cents, by deduction of fifteen 'per
cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a ptizt. Vl2
1 Prize of jeoo dollars is dollars 560®
1 1000 t 1000
1 ' -jcb 500
' — loco
30 .100 icbo
99 5o 4950
100 5000
aoo ° 10 10,000
S Last drawn numbers of icoo dollars each, 5000
* 33 a 44,450'
4018 Blanks.,
6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars eich, 44,4
By order of the Directors of the Sodfety for eftablifli
ing Ufeful Manufactures, the fuperintendunts of the Pat*
erfon Lottery have requested the Managers to offer the
forogqing Scheme to the public, and have directed them,
to refund the money to th«fe persons who have purchafe4
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
in this Lottery.
The lottery has a&ually commenced drawing, and will
continue until finifhed. A lift of thf Blanks and Prizes
may be seen at the office of William Blackburn, No. 64
south Second street, who will give information where tick*
cts may bt procured.
Dated this 17th day of June, 1796.
J. N GUMMING, ")
JACOB R. HARDENBERG, >Managers.
JONATHAN RHEA, ' )
dtf eo
Wafhmgton Canal Lottery,;
NO. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorifsd
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of catting
a Canal through the City of Wafliingcon, from th Po
tomac to theEaftern Branch Haruour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz 'I Prize of i O,OOO dollars, 30,000
I ditto 10,000 10, oop
1 lafl drawn")
Tickets, each j *'°°° 3 *'° oo
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
10 ditto 4001 4,000
ao ditto 100 a,OOO
S5 d'tto 50 3,75°
3750 ditto 11 69,008
To be railed for the Canal, 26,250
5850 Prizes, 1.75,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.]
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
The Commissioners havfe taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid a(sl fqr the pßtlilual payment of
the prizes.
The drawing of this Lottery will commence, withouc
delay, as soon as thf Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix moath9 after th«
drawing is finilhed,lhall be ionfidered as relinquifbed for
the benefit of the Canal, airtl appropriated *cordinj{ly.
(Signed J NO'i LEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, ofO.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEOR3E WALKER,
Wm. M. DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of Wa(hipj»lofl, Feb. 11. 5
PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO,
—No. 11 Sh
ot e s k BT-STftlir.
[Prise Fight Dollars raw Anammjf
r •■' ' " '