—
#S?et te of the & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
THURSDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 21, 1796. * X.
Nvmber 1260.] 7 - — ; ~~ t: c , I " The Merchants and Traders
_ for Charter,
The Ship Dominici Terry, c "
Jacob Dc Hart, master an excellent
vessel, of about' 3300 barrels burthen. j Ci ,
Jeffs <ff Robert Wain. x n
t , A hffil
September eT. I D : (
r->. For NEW-YORK, Lm
The Ship LIGHT HOUSn, J*
T° f-*' l la * few ,n< * wlll uke fre 'S ht
very low. Apply to, josEpH aNTH ONY, & Co. I \
September 20. |
For Siie, Freight or Charter, }Jf
jg-ZS?- The Ship General Wafhmgton, Mere
Now discharging her cargo from Liver- he w;
at Rofs's Wharf—She is a last fail
; (hip, and may be lent to sea at a small Sor
cnclThiviJTbwn'docked and refitted fe Liverpool. Sn,
APP ' V '° Kearny Wharton. s«n
Who has for fair on board said ship,
A few thousand Bushels Salt and Coa.. I En
d 6 I r).,
Sept -' 9 - Sll
JCZ For charter ' l\
The Danilh Barque Beneventura I p r
Samuel Stub, master, _J"
(rood vessel, of about two -hnfidre d ,
tons burthen. JESSE & ROBERT WAI.N.
Sept. 17. 1
For Boston,
The Schooner Olive, Th
Perer. Drinkwater, mafler, will P'' - 1
lively lail on TueHay the 20th inft
hTving part of her cargo engaged. For freight orjwflagc
aP S;pt to l6. No- 7°. North water-flrcet J
" ~ZZ FOR LONDON, [
'^' ls ea P ,la l "*'P CERES,
fail soon For freight or paffagc S
to DAVt, ROBERTS & Co. br j**
John Vaughan, _s
September 10. Front-llreet.
FOR SAL E,
V'-'E-fSwT'* The Schooner LAR K»
° ne Hundred and twenty tons burthen. .
\ A new vessel well found, well built, & J ;__4
fails extremely fall. Fotf terms apply «
to the,n\after onboard, or to I 1
Jofcph Anthony ts Co. the
If the. above vessel 'is not fold in a few days, fee will tr o
take freight on very low terms for Bolton. I
Sept. io. | lot*
, v FOR SALE, 1 _
The (hip STAR,
£aVw-"4*J Johk.Vankim.ik, Master, j .
T YING at Walrmt-ftr-et wharf, Philadel- in
*5«55.'133 lJ phia built, of live oak and cedar, will j
can/about 3100 barrels, is two years old, and in com
pleat order to receive a cargo—'-'or terras MppJf «P
' TMOS. & JOHfS KEI LAND.
Who have also for sale said vessels cargo—confiding ol—
Wine and Porter bottles, I ,
Window G ass, 6 by 8 to 16 by 12.
Pipes in boxes I
Eartben-Ware in crates.
Grindstones, Coals, Whiting, &c. & -
AUg. 29 *
•John Whitefides & Co.
Have for Sale, j p C
Venetian Red, I fti
Sjianifh Brown, _ I mi
White Lead, ground in oil.
Slict, Ko. I, 3, 3, 4» 5* j
Londow Porter, in casks and bottles.
Green Copperas. , . ,* , r .
Several crates of Queens Ware, in setts, with desert j
ditto c«mpl:'at.
Blistered Steel, |
- ' German ditto. I ht
Sept vai." •' QUV - ™
To be disposed o£,
rr-iHE time of a healthy NEtJRO WOMAN, who I
JL has between four and five years to ferre: She |
dan be recommended for her sobriety and honesty. For I r
pai'ticul4rs enquire at No. lj3, Chefnut-l.rett.
Anguft 3. I ti
NAN O E N S, L
Of the firjl quality, LOR SALE BT, llj
J RD. and JAS. POTTER. ti
For any, quantity above Five Thousand Pieces, a li- I
betal credit will be given. R- &J- P- e
September 13. " I
INDIA SALES. h
ON Tburfday the 2ld inft. at io o'clock, A. M. will j 5
be fold at the stores of Willings and Franeis, a large
. quantity of INDJA GOODS, imported in the Ganges, |
from Bengal, confiding of -j .
3OQO pieces Gurrahs '
2000 do. Baftas, different kinds J
3500 do Coflas, do. j
•VSO do. Hiitnhumsdo.
boo do. Patna hdkfs. for women
100 ho. Addacies
80 do Table cloths
300 do. F.nierties
8a do. Pmijuras S
3to do. Fine Mu'imuls
soo do. l'ine Dacca hdkfs.
xoo do. worked Mufiins '
100 do.* Doreas
100 do. Book Mufiin a
r 100 do. black and colored PerfiSns or Taffeties i
J Bandannoes, chocoiate, red and blue r
l.'.a do. Choppa Romals
id quarter ca&s of Hyson Tea of'goad quality
40 Souchong
The coarse goods will be fold by the bale, the taffetas
aaj.bandannoesin lots to fait the purch:uers, the teas by
the chc'fl. The whole is entitled so the drawback, and will
oc fold for approved n»te.'. on a liberal credit. r
Tl.'-■j:cKj,dsmsy be seen lrom the 15th inft. to the day <
•" previous to the sale. 1
JOHN CQNXIiLLYi Aftioneer. ,
September 8. * d
French Goods.
Received by the Sally, Mitchell, from Havre-Je- '
Grace,
20 Trunks *> Ladie t SHOES of all colors forts ancl sizes
I Cafe \ Eig!
1 1 Ditto white arjd colored Silk STOCKINGS g O ,
1 1 Ditto Fine LAWN {ion of
| 1 Ditto bed fine CA,\IBRIC Apf
. I Ditto Ladies' best liiafr.my and Grenoble Gloves
I For Sale by THOMAS 3c JOHN KETLAND.
I *«g. V * - ,
——— — Sept
Win. HOLD CRN ESSE,
No. 76 High Street, 1 -
T TAS received, by the latest arrivals from Europe and
1~1 the Eaft'lndies, a well felefted assortment of Silk Me( f r ,
Mercery, Linen Drapery and Haberdashery Goods ; which nQW j
he Will fell, Wholesale and Retail, 911 the lowest terms; p o f
AMONGST WUICII ARE, f
Some fine India mullins embroi.lered with gold and (fiver
Superfine Book, Jaconet, and MCilmul ditto r
( Do do de do Handkerchiefs —
I Some extra black taffetics.lUttftringsand colored Pcrfiatis
Bandano Handkerchief* _
Long and short Nankeens \ )
janglifh Mantuas of the firft quality ,
Damask table linen and napkins,-very fine abl^-
I Silk Hosiery, an elegant assortment ,
I Thead and cotton do
Umbrellas —green silk, oil'd do. and do cloth
French cambrics, very fine P_ e
Irish Lineiis, do. Sec. &c. , June 14 § ,
70,000 Pieces Nankeens,
j Of the bejl quality and on reasonable terms,
, 1 fox Sale by
Philip Nicklin Iff Co.
j 26.
The Cargo of the Polacre Independent,
FAIN CATHCART, from Alicant and Lif-
I bon, landing at the fublcribers wharf—
: I 28 Pipes of Brandy °
I 18 Bales of Spanith wool
. J 3 do, of Annifeed
- I 7000 Bulhels of best Lilbon Salt
So Boxes of Lemons The
For sale by WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
, ALSO,
c| Seventy Hogsheads of prime JAMAICA SUGARS, A
r I received by the Ihip Dominick Terry, Capt. De Hart, —J
-1 from Kingston. .
Septi 13. d A 1
C A' B L E S,
From 16 to 9 \ inches, for sale by
Jeremiah Warder,
M July 21 S No 12 north Third-flreet.
•' Washington Lottery. jt
1 THE Twentieth and Pwenty-firft Days' Drawing of
the Waftiisgton Lottery, No. 2, are received nt the office J
1 No. 234, Market-ftrect, where tickets may be examined. J
N. 13. Inlormation given where tickets in all the other
j lotteries may be procured. >
- September 15, 1796. y .df
" . FOR SALE,
WINE, London particular Madeira, 4 years old,
■1- I in pipes and hogsheads —u
ill ' Claret, genuineold, in cases
a- Gin, in pipes, from Holland
Earthin Ware, in crates
Balket Salt,.in hogsheads '
- Shnt, Nos. 6, 7, I and 9 "Q
I, Bar Lead, Red and white dry lead lS
I Steel, German ond tfuffia, in barrels beii
Anchors,, cables, junk, bunting, tarpolin canTas, of
Tin plates —An invoice Stationary, by. inti
THOMAS Sc JOHN KETLAND. cor
j 7>rtv 19 ■ ' ' ? p rc
" THE PUBLIC t0 ;
I S hereby cautioned, n'ot to trust any person or —
j persons on my account, under any pretext whatever, s 1
I (hall not pay such debts as may have been, or hereafter
j may be contr.idted without my knowledge.
THOMAS HOGGARD.
j Sept. >13. ttfcfl
" INFORMATION, ' J
ert |"S give?! daily of the drawing of tbe WASHINGTON G f
I i LOTTERY, attheOfiice anC
I No. 147 Chefmt-jlreety po
I between Fourth and Fifth streets. Also, where Tickets all
I may yet be had. Sept. 15. ttf e !
J The 20th and 21 fl Days drawing is arrived °.' J|
;h<- j Lottery and Broker's Office, Fo
l ll ' A r o. 64, South StCCNO STREET.
L 'or 1 r -p ICKETS m the Canal Lottery, No. 2, for sale—a
J. Check Book for exarnryiatian—■-and prizes paid in
I the late lottery.
j Check Books kept .for examination and raftering, for
I the City of Waftiingttin, No. 2, and Pattefon Lotteries,
I both of which are now drawing—information where
I tickets arc to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tn_ I tickets. A complete lift of all Chs prizes in the ldte New
-1 Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public ScKool Lottery, for
J: J examination.
I The fubicriber foficits the application of the public
j and his friends, who wish to pur chafe or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates.. Bill's of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
■* j Si.c. 1 or to obtain mopey on deposit of property
Wm. Blackburn.
a 'l Philadelphia, i%. 1796. mth c
1 FOR SALE,
A Complete Font of Brevier, D
j new , and yet unopened. The weight of this ol
JLi font is about 3121b. It is from the FounJery of C
Wilson & Sons,Glafgow,andwillbefold at cost & charges, c/
Also for Sale, a pair of Super Royal Chafes.
Enquire at the Office of the Gazette of the Uftitde h
Statse, 119 Chjfnut-ftreet. Aug. 19 $4\v 1:
Diflblution of Partrierfhip.
THE Partnership between ROBERT ANDREWS and ti
D AVID MEREDITH, undei the firm of ANDREWS c
and MEREDITH, being diflolvcd All persons who are li
indebted to, or who have claims against the bid house, are 1
requested to apply for fcftlement to the fubicriber. q
ROBERT ANDREWS, a
No. 86, So. Whaivcs. f
5ept.6,1796. d tf
• ct by s WA N T E D,
will A Middle-Aged WOMAN, who c. n be well|rtcom- .
mended, to take charge of the entire management of
day children—Such a peflon/will meet with fuitabje encou
tagement, and rpay. hear of a platre, by applying to the .
-r. p,-li ter of this Gazjtte,
i Sept. 14. mwf
For Sale, • m
((ti an excellent situation for business,) publi
A thrEe-story brick House and Lot cf to m<
Ground, 1j
Eighteen feet front and twenty-five feet in depth, on
the South fide of MarketJiear Fronf-ftreet, now in pofle:-
fion of Samuel Read.
Apply to ,
Ifratl Pl.eafants, or B
Charles Sc Jcfcpli Pleafantv. \rn
»ept.T3. J
For Sale,
A Three ftofy BRIQK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut
street, between Front and Serond ftrsets, in which
Messrs. James Calbraitli Ji Co. have for many years (and
now do) carried on business.
Poffefiion will be given in one month, or foo'her. _
For terms apply to WILI.IAM BEI.L,
HECTOR CAI.BRAITH. b '
April 21. ' I
A Book-Keeper,.
OR Clerk's place is wanted by a person properly quali
fied, and whole charadler will be found UnexCeption- Am
able. Apply to the Printer. . A
Aug. il I 111-
Dutch Goods,
Received by the Punnfylyania, from Amjlerdam.
GIN, in pipc^
Morlaix *S
Ticklenburgs > In Bales
Ofnaburgs j t J_
German *> Stripes, in cases
Hacr}em j
Hollands \ DUCK, in ditto
Ravens 3
, Be-iiti'-ks. in di"o A
f- ?■ ;ntUtto
Platuie* S A^
For Sale by THOMAS V JOHN ZETLAND. Arf
Aug. 29 ;
Sales of India Goods. By
The Cargo of the Clip Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cal
cutta and Bengal,
CONSISTING OF ,!
; \ Laree and general assortment of Bengal and Madras
t ' A CO ITON and SILK GOODS.
AMONG WHICH ARE
A variety fine worked and plain -NLuflins,
Doreas, luV. Also,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
In boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER,
For Sale by
Willings y Francis,
- No. il Penn Street. _
June 8 §
0 £ , , — — ———A.
ce JUST A RRIVE D, from Lisbon, t
' And for Sale by th'j Subscribers, i t
Lilhon Wine, 1'
In pipes and quartcr-calks ; pc
5000 Bushels Lisbon Salt.
fefl'e iS Robert i'udn.
Id) "
At a special meeting of the Board of Di
reß ,*s f'ir ejlabhfoing ufeful Manufactures, ha.den
at Paterfon, July B_, 1796,
T> ESOL.VED,'That a special meeting of the. Sfock- f<
holders of the Society be called.on the firft Monday, o
being the third ay of Odober next, at Paterfon,.by ten U
a3, of the clock cf tbe fany day ; tlien and there tot ke
into confidcration the propriety ol diifolving the said
, - corporation, agreeably to tlu.' law iti such cafe made-and
1 provided—and the Stockholders are earneftl'y refuelled
to attend the.said meeting in person or by proxy.
AuguO 2: dt,othO
or . —Ht— '1 '' ■, —*— - '' 1" 1 '
fter DUTY ON CARRIAGES. l
$ Notice is hereby Given, |
—' AT agreeably to an ail of Congrcfs of the United
I Slates of \merica, n iffed at Philadelphia, the 28th day
ON 0 f Mav, 17q6 yljyin: duties 00 Carnages, for the convey- | J
ance of periods, and 'repealing the former a6ls for that pur- .
pore.—'Thai thdre (hall be levuS, colleaed and paid, upon -
bets all carriages f/r the conveyance of persons, which thall be
-tf "kept by or lor any person, for his or her ownuie, or to let
o'Jt to hire, orfor the conveying of palTengcrs, the several du.
- ties and rates following, to wit.
For and upon every Coaph, doh.
apo.i eveTy Chariot, 12 dols.
uponeve;y Poll Chariot, it dolJ; f
- a upon every PoA Chaise, 1a dqjs.
j i a upon every Phacion, with or without top, 9 doli
Upon every Coachee, 9 dols.
f or upon other Carriages, hiving pannei work above,
V with blinds, glallesor cUrtains, 9 dols. .
' upon four wheej carriages, having trained pofls and
tops vvith steel springs, 6 dols. •
upon lour wheel toj» Carriages, with wooden or iron
J l ' * springs 01 jacks, 3 dob.
ior upon curricles with tops, 3 dols.
upon chai tes with idps, •) dols.
'hliC upon chairs with tops, 3 dolS,
ock, tipon sulkies witfi lops, 3 dols,
tnds, upon other two wheel top carriages, 3 dolj.
upon two wheel carriages, with ficel or iron springs,
. 3 dols,
" for and upon all other two'wheel carirages, a dols. .
upeiT ' vtry lour wheel carriage, hiving tramfd pods
and tops, and reftiug upon wooden spars, z ( dols.
The Colli ftors of the Revenue of th.c firft turvey of the
Dillriftof Pernifylvania. will attend daily, until the 30th d»y
' this of September next, for the purpose of 1 ece iviiy; rh<: duties on
■y of Carriages, at No. 11;. in Race or Saffafras flreet, in the City
of Philadelphia, at the hotife ol Daniel S. Ctair, tf<) in the
| Cburtty of Montgomery ; and at the house ol Abraham Du
tiitde ' b6iS, tfq. in the County of Bucks; of whieh all persons pol
}w lefled t>! f»tb Carriages are defued to take notice.
-— Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers i" WiY.es, and foreign diftiUed fpiri
i> and tuous liquors, thai licences will be granted io them ; ane li
EWS cence for carrying on.th* business oi retailing ot Wind, in a
>o are left quantity* or in Icis quantities than 30 gallons—and one
e. are , licence for carrying, on the boftnefs of retailing Spirituofts li
quors in lefsquantities than 20 gallons, at the latne time and
at the fame places, by the officers legally authorised to grant
's. fuck licence*.
t f Wll4-1 AM NICHOLS,
i Infpcftof of the Revenue ot the firft survey
of the dillrift of Pennsylvania.
Irtfp?£iion,at ) j 3®
:com- phllacMphid. 21ft July, 1796. )
rjlt of •
tHhe . *E D \
An APPRENTICE to the Printing Business.
iwf Enquire at thia Office. Aug. 9
1 y
The Merchants and Traders
OF thij City, who have claims upon the Frcuch ■Re
public, either irt the Weft-Indies, or Europe, ar-. reoueJ-a
to meet at the Coffec-Kotf., on Tucfday the sftth in-t
---at I a o'clock, Sept. 19,
F O R SA L E.
PORT WINE, and
HOI-LAND GIN;of -he firft fltiafitiesin Pipes.
PRAOKC23 tad V.»N REED,
Eroktrs ami CCTttirnilfu;". VC-' c!K :.t», N"©.63, *>0 3 I St,
\Vn" KCTES r.«*».
N. B. An a'pPRENT!C£ Wanted.
September 14. rnwf
Rofs arid fnmfon
Have for Sale,
A few calks Bees-Wax,
Of an excellent quality*
Ana a parcel of Lampblack.
Sept. 14. d
Great is Truth and micft prevail.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And for fait at No• 41 Cbefnut-ftreet by J. ORM'IODr,
■An Apology For tire Jiible,
By R. WatsoK. d. v. f. jr. s.
Bijhop of l.cndef,. rfct
Being a complete refutation of Pairte's
Age of ReH/on,
An! the only aijfuer to the Second fart.
August 30. ■!
THIS DAY IS PUBLISH 1 !' $
By W. Young, Mills and Son,
[Price 10 cts. in boards, 62 i-i neatly bound]
An Apology for* the Bible,
In a fries of Letters,
' Addrefled to Thomas Paihe, author of a book entitled
Tlx Age *f Reason, part the second, being an in
veShation of true and fabulous theology. .
By R. WATSON, D. D. F. R. S. Lo.d Bifliop of
- Landaff, and Regius Profeffor of Divinity
in the University of Cambridge.
.Sept. 16. ,u&f6
IS "
For sale by the fublcribers,
IN PtNN-STREET,
5 quarter Chests trefh Hyson ica ;
100 ditto *0. frelh Souchong Tea ;
300 Boxes China, containing irnall tea ietts of 41
pieces;
400 pieces Bandinoef.
Willirh Is? Francis.
January 30
One Hundred' Dollars Reward.
Q OME villainous perfoii or pcrfons having, in the night
, oof the 7th ir.ft. broken and rmich injured the Marble
Steps at Mr. Piercb Butler's door in High-ftfvCt, No;
the above sum of 100 dollars will be paid iinrrjecU"
*tely to any one who will discover the perpetrator or
perpetrators, so that he or they may be apprehended.
Apply to FiERf. E
Or SAM. MAGAW.
Sept. 15. *tffcm3 . . I
* TAKE NOTICE.
'/- "J"HE fubfcrlber intends to make application sos a re
r, newa' of the following certificate, supposed to bs
e " loft on the passage to England in April 1794:
Certificate No. 10335, dated Ijth November, 1
■k- for 1830 dollars and 91 cents—Six per cent, domeftife
debt, on the books of the Treasury of the United
rUI in the name of the Hon. John 1 rcvor.
' ke ROBERT BIRD, at John Warder's,
aid Philadelphia, August 30th, 1796. «tu&f6w'
ted India Tamboured Muslins.
L A finally handforne affortmeni of Mujlins^
viz.
Pine tamboured Mafda and Safitiptre Muslins, .Various
patterns and prices.
Plain 6-4 Jaconet.
, j Corded and cross-barred Muslin Shawls.
j. Ditto ditto 6-4 and Dorcas,
Muslin Handkerchiefs, fine arid coarse.
iur- ' Japan Muslins, and
□on I A few pieces extraordinary fine Long Cloths.
k c i FOR SALE BK
let 1 jThomas Tingeys ■
u " J No. 111, South Third-ilreet.
Sept. is. tu&itf
TO BE SOLD,
That Neat and Convenient- Plouse,
. j "TT THEREIN the fnbferiber now lives. There are loaf
I W rodtus on a floor : the house is two (lories high
ove, j with a good garret above : under the whole js an excell
ent cellar, with a dry well, m which is a convenient
and J framed chamier f6r prefetving meat, butter, &c. in warm
' weather. Attached to ,he house is a> Stable for three
iron horffis, hay-los , granary, and carriage- houf-', a wood-
S yard paved with (tone, and a garden with foil of a fine
(quality. An indlfptftable title will be made to the pur-
I chafer. For farther particulars apply to the fubferitjer in
I Princeton, or, in her abfencc to Thomas D. jOTinfon, Esq. -
1 or the rev. Samiel S. Smith.
. ANN WITHERSPOON.
in S s ' I Princeton, Aug 14. aawtO
posts Plans of the city of Philadelphia,
d°ls. I including the N*oßthern LißEtTi es and diftrid of
f the I 0 SoUTHWARK ,
* M I PubHfhed, and fold by
BENJAMIN D/IVIES,
11 the I 68, High street,
1 Du- j Price one dollar.)
pof» j THIS plan is ih incite fqua.-c, and has been enl
I graved by or.e of the firft artists In the city, from a late
I and accurate survey. Purchasers are entitled to a pam
fpiri- I pblet with each plan, giving " forrle account of the
re li 1 city, its population, trade, government, &c.
,in a j July 19 tij&ftf
i one I '
J FQR SAL 1,
£ By N and J. FRAZIER i
1 No. 9J, S. Front-street,
• I Prime Boston B«ef, in barrels.
luvvey I ijeorgia Cctton.
1 Carolina Rice arid Ir.digo.
j Sherry and Teneriffe Wines, of excellent quality.
■ I laveris Duck.
I . n dio BaadanOo's.
1 iewing Silks, various colours,
ess. I l offahs and Gurrahs. $
I Sspt, 17. ttJ4W.CONTINUATION OF
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE,
'■-B; 1 the Brig Drnn, Capt. Burnham, arrived p.t Ne~w
-Tork, in 49 dnyj from Havre-de-Grace, and other
late arrivals.
PLACENZA, June 15. 1 •
Tht garrison of this town, confiliing of 4000
men, marched from hence on the Bth inft. for the
siege of Mantua. Seven thousand men from Tor
tona, with a great truaiber of heavy cannon, are to
pass through this town for the fame place.
ST. GALL, June 28.
A colu-mn of Kellerman's army has parted thro*
the territory of the Grifoas, and carried the town
of Bregentz, after some refinance.
[Tr»nfhted for the (N. Y.) MINERVA.]
PARIS, July 11*
They talk of a conliderable armament preparing
at Brest for an expedition, the obje£l of which is
not positively known. A citizen just arrived from
thence, and wh® staid 'twere 6 days afTures lis that
there is no less than 90,000 men engaged in it.
The pacification in La Vendee, and in the country 1
of the Chouans, gives to the government thousands 1
of men, of whom theyr are resolved to make a good
use. They are determined to flr'thc tuhti-e the iron's
hot. Eiigliftimen, we will havp revenge !.
It is without doubt, for (he purpose of being at
lead orice faithful to its title, that the Journal of
Patriots of '89, reports with interest the homage
paid to La Fayette, at the entertainment which
took place <he 17th Meflidor, in memory of the
anniverfaiy of the day on which the Americans de
clared their independence. It fhoald be remerti
bered, that La Fayette is only so horribly pcrfecu
ted in the dungeons of A«fi.ri ~ has ho
roiably concurrej In the French revolution. It
fhonlo be recolltfted how frightful it is to fufFer a
jnan to peri(h in a baftile, who is only confined there
for having fcrved the cause of liberty. He only
alks to live in America, not to afford him the means,
would be to second the fury of England, Auftriaj
and the emigiant6. (L'Eclair.)
OFFICIAL DETAILS.
$hrintm, general of Irigade, comhimdant at MorlU
han, to Hedouville, thief of the etat major of the
army,
" Vannes, 11 Mejftdor, June 29.
" GENERAL,
" Every thintf goes on better, and in
the diftrifts Of Hennebon, Faouet, Ponleivy, Jofle
lin and Ploerinel, astonishingly well. Gen. Mer
met has already announced to me the finding of
1 §06 muskets, 30 fabresat least, 20 pair of piftolg,
good and bad, 3 bbls. of gun-powderJ\2 culverins
and 5000 cartouches in JofTelin alone. I have been
assured, that there has been already discovered more
than 800 muskets at Ponteivy, 500 at Faouet, and
near 300 at Hennebon.
" Georges ard Allegre, chouan chiefs, inform
ed, that in the diftri& of Roche-des trois, the ope
.rations had been very relax, not on the part of the f
ci-devant chouan chiefs of those countries, but in
confcquence of thf apprehensions with which wick- <3
ed persons had Inspired the peasants, set out this li
morning with Adj. Gen. Valcutin, and have pro- a
mifed, that their endeavors should not be fruitlefs. I
(Signed) QUANTIN." a
(From an exaH copy! c
General of divifios, cWiai of the etat-majar of g
the army. e
(Signed) % HEDOUVILLE. t
General Augufte Mermet's letter, to Gen. Hoche. I
Jojfel'tn, 12 Mejftdor, June 30.
" At length, general, the arms and ammunition
t>F the haughty Bretons of Morbihan, are in our
ar/enals. More than 2000 fufils, 30 pair of sabres,
*o pistols, 2 culverins, 3 barrels of powder, and
5000 cartridges, have been given up in my circle. ft
" 1 collect here all the deserters and emigrants, i
to fend them uader convoy to Rennes, there to
await your ultimate orders. Of the latter there if
are very few. £
'• The war is finifhed, I may dare to fay. These d,
fixdayspaft, fince, the difarrning commenced, our ft
foldieis and citizens travel singly tipoa the rpads. N
All the refugees are gone home, and not a single tl
accident lias occurred. w
" Thepriefts, not emigrant arid banished, pro- ft
tell to me, that they will inceffaiit'y preach peace w
in the country : they, as well as the former native
leadsrs of the chooaws, allure me, that if any
wretches shall present themselves in the country, up
on view*of ravage, they will have them seized, and
conduced here, boHnd upon waggons:
(Signed) » AUG. MERMET."
July 19 ( ;k 'i'hetmidor.) I
A part*of the camp of Crenelle having mani- y
fefted some fympturas of meeting, especially by ic- d
fufing to ree;<ive ma,ndats in paynrent, the camp h
was almost e.itiiely railed this morning, at 4 v
o'clock. These troops are feut to Vincennes; it n
appears that they are to be replaced by soldiers a
from the camp at that place.
One MafTue, in Paris, at tlx place of viSory, a
has formed an institution, whi.h bi<)s fair to eon- o
found the flock jobbers, and aid ttMnmcrce, if it »!
foould ever prosper. The objeftffs to discount h
■ good paper, at a nfbderate frtterefi, and to receive
deposits gratuitowdy, and fell of them the value at c
light, upon oraer or acceptance payajle at his
ho'ufe. %
Letters from Germany assure us that a body of
French troops are passing, by forced marches, the
country of the Grifons, end that they may not vi- 1
o'ate the -neutrality of the country, prmies cf men
f.re transported or carriage. Should this be true,
rno doubt vhi6 corps moving from th* hike of Con
stance-; whence l cy can easily efle£i a juattion
with the army of General Moreau
IN THE COUNCIL Of FIVE HUNDRED, 1
Ift Thermidor, July 19. j
u> the name of a committee of seven, «
» »
™ reported on the inftitutlon of a court of jufticc
for trial of members of the Diic&ory an l Lejgjf
lative Body. He proposed that this court (hauld
consist of 16 members and 14' jurors. Th« ac
cused to.have the right of challenging 30 jurors,
w- within 24. hours after the lift (hould be presented
to them. The Rational acccfers (attorneys gene
ral) not to have a right of challenge, without as
signing their reasons of the fufficiency of which
the court is to judge. The accused to designate
30 their witnesses, within three days after their inter
lic rogatory. The decisions of this court not to be
ir - fubjedt to appeal to any o % .her tribunal; and to be
to attended neither with a substitute nor comnnfiary
of the Dire&ory. Ordered to be printed and ad
journed.
BoifTy d'Anglas was chosen prcTiJent ; Ruclle
o* Paftoret, Baraiilon and Borne, fecrijtsric*.
'n The council decreed, that provilioiialljr one half
of the maintenance of the public turi&ionaries
(hould be paid in corn at 10 francs (livres) the quin
tal, or the reptefentative value.
They have refolvcd also, thafl the officers of the
ig customs (hall reccive specie for duties, or their re
is prefentative value. But the firft resolution wa» re
tn je&ed by the Council of Elders, as placing their
st officers in a worse iituation.
t. The Council of Elders, admitting urgency, pafT
■y ed unanim mfly the lefolution, dimmilhing the tax
is on the conveyance of Journals and other papers,
id ' —
's '■ The ambafladorof Tunis to the coutt of London,
pafied through Paris, and was treated with great
it civility, as well as pomp, by the minilter of the in
s interior. On his visit to the miniiter, he was re
e ceived in the gallery of the hotel of the interior,
h ,and with his fuit'e seated cm fophas in the midst of
e the minister's family. Vases and flower boxes were
arranged around the roam, all glowing with per
1. fumes. The banquet consisted.as daerbets, fruits.
1. ice-creams, See. Many tables were fpi.ead for the
i- ladies, who embelliflicd the"company. Attheclofir
t of the entertainment, the minitler presented to the
a ambaflador a box containing a collection of arms,
e manufactured at Versailles, a carbine, elegantjy
v mounted pistols, holflers, See.
1, This manufafliire of arms at Versailles, eftab!i(h«
i ; ed by the minister when couimiflloner of arms, ex
ceeds any other fabrick of the kind in Europe. The
arms unite perfection and baauty with the richness
of the East, and the ambaflador declared he had
f, never seen any thing more per fed than the articles
, e ptefented him.
The gates of the garden were open, and bands
of music entertained the company, who took a walk
in the garden. Or.e might read on the eountenance
d of the ambafTador, whose phyliognomy is mild aud
> indicative of genius, a most lively isriprefiion of
- pteafure and fcnfibili'.y, He then entered the mi
s nifter's cabinet, where were exhibited pictures, fta
, tuary, vases, and other monuments of the arts.
s —
n The Council of Elders have approved and con
e verted into a law, a resolution granting to every
1 entire freedom of contratting and receiving
what he pleases in payment, without however ena
bling him to tefufe rpandats, according t» their cuv
. rent value, on the day and at the place, where the
; payment (hall be made.
1 This refolu'ion admits the depreciation of man
. Dats indefinitely, which are abandoned to their fate
e like other paper currencies. These measures are
. a consequence of the flood of specie poured into
France from the dates of Italy, collcfted by Buon
aparte's exadliuns. A free trade has also received
confidence there, as formerly iti America, and the
f gold and silver which had been concealed during the
existence of lender laws, again appear in circula
tion.
. Extof a letter from citizen Hauflman, commif
fioner of the government near the army of the
Rhine and Moselle, to the Executive Directory.
Head-Quarters at Bichelle, 20th
1 Mcludor, (July 9.)
I I have just seen the cammander in thief, who
ftopt with me litre but a moment, and returned to
, Baden.
1 Nothing of consequence h'as taken place fin.ee the
: important affair which made us maflers of Raltadt.
General Feijno has occupied the residence of Car
dinal Rohan. General St. Cyr occupies Frender
ftatt. His patrolcs go to the banks of the.ii*er
Necker. Prince Charles of Austria, who was at
; the affair of Raitadi with a numerous reinforcement,
was not saved by the fuccourshe brought, from the
- fhanu of being beaten. He hardly knows which
: way to turn his head.
HAUSSMAN.
r '*mmm
A letter from the fame to the fame.
I Head-Quarters at Bit-belle, zzi
Mefiidor, (July 11.)
Citizens Direflors,
The divisions under the command of generals
Defatx and St. Cyr, had a battle with the enemy
- yesterday on the plain beyond Raftadt, and in the
- defiles 111 advance of the Guerfbatk. The enemy
) had sent thither all their forces ; our troops have
vanqmftied them—have killed and wosnded a great
t many men, taken 1300 prisoners, and one piece of
I artil^ry.
The enemy had received confiderabk reinforce
, sients, and it even seems 1 hat they had ordered some
of the troops to the Tyrol j notwithftandino this,
t they have been obliged to fall ba.k behind Dour
t lacn.
e Onr troops w ill not give the enemy a moment's
t quiet. -I he commander in chief is indefatigable.
s Health and refpeO,
HAUSSMAN.
C ,S AL/^ I§ ''3 th J u 'y (Jjth Meffidot.)
... -The Commiflary of tl»c Executive D.reaory with
a the Municipal Admintfration of the Canton of
■, Ca id is, to citizen Canuit, President of the Fx
ccutive DiicClory of the French Republic.
II Citizen President, -
I have ju(t obtained certain proof that the En
glim government, to pay its fub/idies to Au(tr : a
, to the rebels of La Vendee, aad the faAions of the
interior, tas been fabricating an immense quantity
, 01 couaterfeit Louis, worth col/ j 1 liviei. They
• '
• are .well made ; the alloy is the fame as in tb •-. u<\ •
• and the only difference- is in the size of tjie coin,
I whfch is {matter by an eighth.
I have procured one of thrfe pieces to use for j
, comparison ; 1 have recommended to the Cultqni
houfe to guard against receiving anv of them ; I
have written to the Miniflet of the Police j but it
would be very ufefu) to give the public official no
tice, to be oti their glldtd against this falfe money.
Health and refpeit,
(Signed) PIGAUL I' MAUBAILLAY.
HOLLAND.
MIDDLEBURG, June O.
A Fast Day, to he kept in this place, having
been relieved on, a proclamation to that purpnfe
was yeftetday issued, and is thus fmgularly prefac
ed ;
The Prefijent and Council of Middleburg to their
Fellow Citixccs
*' Health and brotherhood !
" If we attempt to persuade you that our city
and land were not in a precarious lituation ; that the
fundamental dodtrines of liberty and equality had
not icraught us to a piuacle of lustre, which might
fiuitlefs be fought for in our annual chronicles ; that
the difficulties which the citizens have encountered,
being temoved, their prosperity was liuw become
perfect ; would you not fufpeft that we lirovc to
coi!- eal the aflual (late of things ! Would Hot the
confidence that jou have in U6, quickly change in
to suspicion and diftrult ?
" Although conquered by a powerful neighbour,
through whose geneiofity, and the bh flings of God,
we remain % people, is not » review of the present
circUanftanees diftjeartening and mournful ? The
warn >>to which we have been surprized ; the inter- '
nal difientions, iiill v.oife than war ; the loss of
many valuable poffeffioi;s in the Eaft»lndies ; the
critical lituation ofthofein the Weft ; the sources
of fubfiitence obflru&ed ; the inhabitants impovc
ii!h!d by contributions ; the decline of commerce ;
the diminution of the manufactures ; all tend to
exhibit out too true and too melancholy a pidture
of our failen country !—And the incomputable ex
actions, the extraordinary exertions bellowed on
the marine, uncommon addition made to the
land forces, the solemn summoning of all burghers
to defend their country; js it not so many tokens
of dijlrefs ? so many proofs sf danger ; so man- e
vident signs of the ehaftifiiig hand of Godlike juf-j
tice ?
" But 'torn whence came these mifeiies ? and
where m\ifl we enquire for the foutces? In our
selves, brethren ! They originate in our punifhahle
ambition, in fordid interefl, or dcteftable voluptu
ousness, in despising all the virtues that contribute"
to render society happy, in degenerating from re
ligion and morality; and, more than all, to our
disunion and party-rancour, that, like an eating
cancer, has uaftnewed thejjody of our State, and
brought it to a skeleton.
"Snould we, then, remain indifferent fpe&ators
of these accumulating evils, and not Endeavor to
remove them J Always, feeing a friend or telation
in dangerous circnmflances, do we not, in spite of
our reliance on medicinal aid, diredt our eyes and
■;cur hearts tow-atds heaven, beseeching Qodto com
municate the means of recovery? And, burghersj
.ftioukl we not then, to preserve our country, which
is the mend of 413 all, that is our mother, who has
the molt faefed claim to our love, offer up, unani
| mcufly, our. prayers to the Almighty Deliverer,
imploring his aid and protefiii>n ?
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY.
FiftyJiflh Silting.
The Prcfiaeut announced, that the Commiffijn
for foreign affairs had received an official coramu
rncation from Admiral Lucas, confirming the re
port of the capture of 25 English ships by' the
Bataviafl fleet.
The PiefiJent next announced to the afTembly
the departure of the fetond battalion ps the 7th 1
demi-brigade, and likcwife that the Commission for,
foreign had piop.jfcil, iJiat the gariifon of
the Hague should 111 fiitute cohfil of one battalion
ol Efench tioops, two .battalions of Dutch infan
try, a detachment of Ft-Mich hussars, aid a corps
of artiikry, fo.ming a force of 22,000 men.''
LONDON, .June 4. I
Thursday, according to annual cußom, all the 1
charily chiidien, in and loujid the metropolis, to 1
the amount of gooo, of both sexes, afTembled in c
St. Paul's Cathedral, a:vi heard divine feivice.— 1
I he fpeftacle was truly exquifiie and sublime.
On \V ednefdav an ■action was brought in the j:
court of common pleas, to recover 1001. being the
deficiency and expences upon the re-sale of an estate 1
purchased by Mr. Cattle the defendant, from Mr. c
Howard the plaintiff, which he refufed to complete,
aliedging that he had been imppfed upon at the firft f
sale. It appeared, that different puffers had been c
employed by the feller to keep up the price. Up- L
on this, the court weTe unanimously of opinios, x
that pbffers being employed on the behalf of the '
feller to keep up the price, was a fraud upon the 1
public, and therefore renderetf the sale void alto
gether.
In the court of cimnura picas on Thnrfday,' an
action was tried, Herbert versus Hervey, of tome
importance to the trading world. It was brought
by the afiignees of a bankrupt to recover a large 1
sum of money, being the amount of a debt due
from the bankrupt to defendant, and which he ]
had paid him a few days priyr to his bankruptcy.
The rounfel for the plaintiff contended, that if any
debt was paid by a tradesman, in contemplation of
his becomming a bankrupt, v.ith a view to bestow
an undue preference to a pirticular creditor, fnch
payment, according to the spirit and meaning of
the bankrupt laws, was an illegal payment, and the
isffigiier* had a right to reewver the sum so paid foi i
the be«rfit of all the creditois. i. being piovtJ, f
that the dtfbt had been paid a few dij pc. .iom to, '
aiid in contemplation of the taokrupn-j, tit j iry,
under the direction of the learned j . 'ge, fy. c a
veruidl foi the plaintiff,for the whole lam,
J«'y *5-
A fiugular circumllaqcehappeißd off the Isle of
Wight last Monday, The Dolphin pilot cutter, of
! Hailing* with nine men, obirrviiig » Ftench priva
teer eapturj; a trading veflel, bore down upon tiicm,
on which the privateer (not likingher appearinocj
lload oir, and the Dolphin coming along lide the
veflcl, the men, (having neither aims noi ammuni
tion) armed themselves with mop flicks, and a fire
poker ; immediately grappled tlie vcfl'el, boiided
her, overcame the Frenchmen whom they had feea
put on board, seized and.carried her into Rye.-—-
She turned out to be the Caenarvon. Tlie Cap
tain, his wife, child, and fiftci, who were oh boaid,
heartily thanked their deliverers. It is a fr.4;, fc
rioully to be regretted, that the Admiralty refill's
letters of manjne to the vcfiels on this coast, which,
if granted, v. cnl! greatly contribute to theprof«e~
tion of the coa(!i„ t < and' keep off the pViva
teeis which infett it. There is rto dofbt, br't i.nd
the Dolphin a few m'ufkets only, die would Uav* la
ken the privateer also.
T he Emprefsof Rufiia's declaration to the king
of Piuffia and the Emperor, that to prevent their
Jidnfhiuius disputes about the fetilement of the fron
tiers of Weil Gallicia and South Phtffis, fte will
be forced to march an army to tske'poffeffioo of the
disputed places, merely to keep tie W remind* us
of the fable, where a monkey arbitrate* between
two cats, who had doleo a quantity of ch.-efr, and
after greatly dimiiiifliitig the lump, by eating alter
nately from either iesle, in order to dift(ibu;e im
partial ju(Jlce, at length retains the remainder for
tb£ trouble of fettling the diff.iei.ee. 1
ju!v 25.
lady jEßsr.r.
The following is hooded about as a copy of a
Utter sent by the Cmtntefs of Jersey to the Prin
cess of Wales, on the occifion cf her Ladyfh'p's
resignation :
Z\ H r': Rcy - ! the Prh.eefs of Wafts. ,
" ! ze the eailicft opportunity in my power
to have the houpii£<^v»fo r^n^ your Hieh
nets, that 1 have this day obtalntfe permifiion \>f his
Royal Highness the Prince of Wrtles to rcfigu into
his hands the situation of Lady of the Bed-cham
ber in your Royal Highnefs's family ; a fituatiou
which I had the honour of being appointed to by
him at the fame time with the reft of those ladies
who coroprife your Royal Highnefs'e household.
" The fame duty and attachment which 1 (hall
eVer \ie proud in profefliig for his Royal Highneft,
arid which induced'me to accept of that appoint
rtient, urged me to obey his commands 'fa retain
ing it a long time after the infamous and ui judic
able paragraphs in tlie public papers lendered it rm
poffi'ble for a person of the rank aod station I hold
in this country, indeed for any woman, polTcfiing
the honest pride of an English woman, to fuhmit to
hold a station which was to make her the obj:it of
a dark and defigtirng calumny. Upon mentioning
my carneft requed to his Royal Highness fur rcy
instant resignation, he rtprefentcd to me that faeh
a step would not only be legarded as a confirmation
of every absurd and abominable faKhood that had
been so indudrioufly fabiieated for the present
purposes, but that it would be further promoting
the views of those who had so wickedly laboured to •
injure his Royal Highness in the public mind, and,
through him, to degrade the Royal Family." But
the moment is now arrived when I can with pro
priety withdraw myfelf from ftich per-fecotiofi and
injudice, with the conscious fatisla&ion of know
ing that, by my silence and forbearance, I Inve
ven the ftiongcft proof of my duty to the Royal
family, and of that attachment and gra
titude to his Ri>ya! Highness the Prince of Wales,
which can never end but,with my life.
" I am, Madam, with all pofiible tefpcf>, your
-Royal Highnefs's moll hunibL fuvent, &c.
DUB-LIN, June 20.
This age was very unaptly called hy Mr. Butke
an age of mediocrity ; for it seems to be remarka
ble for extraordinary things; and aaipngft them, fur
nothing so much as the production of human phe
nomena. Dum.iurier has been foliowed_ fry hun.
dreds of the f.ime damp 011 the Continent ; poor
Ireland furcifties but one unprecedented man, but
his excellence lies in the arts of peace, which may
be accepted as fame atofiement for cur t»arrer.nef*
in other rcfpeQs.
This is no other than Couut Rumlord. He is a
fort of noble mechanic, or.mechanic noble ; cuftpm
gave him a title, and nature inquifitivenrlj; which
lad has induced him to look into the mod minute
tliingß. He has taught the beggars in Channel
low how h-fs meat will make more broth j and that
one third of the fire used in the process is more
thanenough. He has coritiibuted to the wealth
of our cottagers also, in diminidiifig their cxperces,
by (hewing them how to manage with a third lels
fuel, that is, one sod of turf wftead of three on
their hearth ; and to their comfoit by his plan for
curing smoky cliimnies, when they (hall build them,
for at present mod of them have none. Govern
ment have alreadv rftvarded his exertions with an
office in the Cadle, although the r.ecefiary appen
dage of a place remains yet to be added it,
which renders liirn dill more a singular man ; for
however there'may be placemen without offices,
there is no i.iftance of oEice without place.
WANTED,
Three JQJJR NET ME N BOOK-BINDERS,
GOOD iteady workmen will meet with conuu.it err.-
| ' ployment.and good wages ;"By applying to JOHN
I CURTIS, No. 43, North 1 o.irlh-dreet.
N. B. BOOK BINDING in all its different branches,
I capeuted with neatness and dispatch. PuUlic and private
lis rafief repaired in the neatest and bed mann :r.
I September 20. ~ t k iw
rll is i) Jrls'puis lis he 17, '
By W. YOUNG, MILLS and<Kou>
Corner cf Second and Chefnut Jlreels,
Price 11 i-a cente,
The President's Address
iTo the ; People of # the United .States,
IftTIMATINd
the rxfuluiion he hn< f«rmed to decline being
among the number of tliofe out of whom a choice ii fa
Iz made, at the er.fuir.f, election of a Pttfidcnt of th'
United States.
j ** ws6Philadelphia, t
!
THURSDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER »*, 1796 an
d
Married, on the aotlr inft. by the Rev Mr. Annan, !t .|
Mr. James Jouxstos Denoon, to Miis Elizabeth
Forsyth, both oi this city.
' * rit
On Saturday, the l7tS of the present month, were P e
interred, the remains of Deborah Morris, daugh th
ter of Anthoiiy C. Morris, at Garlic Hall, in the
vicinity of this city.—lf to a form given by Heaven fc>\
to command efleem—to a disposition calculated to t ),
"comraind affection—to a genius, very early unfolded rf
and cut off by the anguish of severe dileafe—any ~
thing else could be added—it was at her giave, where
fobs and sorrowing tears marked pathetically the high a
cllimation in which the was held by many affectionate fr<
mourners. th
DxtD, on Monday, the 19th instant, Miss Susan an
Hazlhwood, daughter of Captain John Hazlewood, jj £
ot this city, ani on Wednesday her remains were in-
terred in St. Paul's church yard attended by a number
of weeping relatives and friends. This young lady's w
amiable deportment, during her short pilgrimage, en- P e
ceared her to all her acquaintance, and as she lived so
beloved, so she died lincerely lamented. ve
• . t- nt
As a meeting of a number of citizens at Mr. Dun- £
■woody's Inn, on the aiftinftant, it was unanimously
agreed to recommend to thejj- fellow-citizens the sol- '
lowing Tickets, for their support at the next .election : Bl
Governor, ''
Thomas Mifflin. 0 ■* 01
Senator, *
Nathaniel Newlin, of Delaware county.
AJfembly,
George Latimer,
Laurence-Seckel,
Jacob Hiltzheimer,
Rebert Wain, ft
Francis Gurney yi
Joseph Ball. m
Bv order of the meeting.
LEVI HOLLINGSWOKTH, Chairman.
M. KEPPELE, Sec'ry. SSi - w
A letter from Detroit,- of August 15, fays, that (
«' Michilimackinac is evacuated by the Brittfh, and vi
will, in the course of two weekj, be occupied by our ft
troops. tl
• it
We hear that Mr. C.W. Peale has obtained a patent V)
for his invention of a Wooden Bridge of very limple
ftru<3ure, which needs r«o lcantlmg trffupport an arch
of any length desired. It may be consequently light J'
and airy, and yet made equally those con- h
ftruifted with heavy timbers and numerous braces. r
An invention, which needs neither scantling nor t ,
' the coll of mortising and tenuanting, promises to be
a great saving of expencc in the conftruftion of wooden o
bridges, especially as it is said it can bt ntade without .
much bv any common workman.
'-m- » "
ENCOURAGEMENT TO FARMERS fl
TO IMPROVE THEIR STOCK. h
On the 3d isift. were fold by Harry Dorfey Gough, u
®f Baltimore, Nine Ball Calves, which are from a g
cross of the famous Mr. Bakewdl's Breed and the t
Lincolnfliire, at the following prices :
1 of 7 months old, black and white, for 195 dolls.
1 of a -year old, do. for ijo
1 of 7 months, do. fgriio 8
I of 6 months, do. for io« b
3 others, of 6 months old, for 90, 55, 50, 50, & I
46 doilars each. ( f
The above gentleman, a few months ago, fold 1 j
Bull for 100 dollars, which weighed one thousand and j
twenty-two pounds.—lf these great weights and prices
can be obtained by improving the breed of cattle, it i
is well worth the attention of Farmers who feed and '
raise Hock. A number of gentlemen in Maryland, we t
are informed, have associated for the purpose of im
porting the belt Itock that can be met with from v
England, which cannot fail to be of great fervke to j
this country. ' (
Ancona, of which the French have lately taken 1
pofieffioh, and which, by'the armistice lately con- '
eluded wit!) the Pope, they are to retain until the !
end. of the war, will prove an important acquifi- '
tion ; as the cruizers they will be enabled to fit '
cut from fhat port will probably make rich cap.
turn, and greatly distress the British.Levant trade. '
Ancona is a very ancient town of Italy on the gulf '
of Venice. As commerce has rapidly increased of 1
late years, Pope Clement JCII having made it a '
free port and built a mole, on the mint of the an
tient one of the Emperor Trojan. Near this stands 1
his triumphal arch, next to the Matfon Quarree
of Nifmes, the moll entire monument of Roman
magnificence at present in existence.
Leghorn however will prove a far more import
ant acquisition, as the exclusion of their enemies
t fiom that pott mill be a great blow to.them. The
British will now be cortfined to Gibraltar and the
ports of Corfjca.
Leghorn was a free port, and merchandize
brought there was never ir.fpefted, the officers of
the city taking great care that the trade of the city
may meet with no interruption, There is hardly
a. finer harbor in the Mediterranean. It is 14.J
miles N. W. of Rome.
A clause in the treaty with the Pope stipulates,
that 500 manuscripts (hall be delivered up. As
thefeare to be chosen by the French themselves,
there can be little doubt but the most rare and va-
Itlable will be fele&ed. This circutnftance will pro
bably oerafum not a little fpaculation, andexpefta
tion will be on the gape after fotre wonderful dis
closure. It is well known that an immense number
of manuscripts hare been collected and deposited
in the Vatican from Arragon and various patts of
Italy and Greece at different periods.
Nothing very interelHng to the liteiaty world
has ever been divulged. Now that they are likely
to pais into the hands of a nfiore inquilltive people,
.we may poffib.ly be treated with many precious dif
ejofures.
fC'R THE GAZETTE Of THE UNITED STATES.
Mr. Fenno,
IN the Aurora of Friday, the Britifll trea
ty, a'r.ipitme law of the land, difclaretjpfo hy the
Hniatui* an«i proclamation of the representative
,f lif the fupieme txecutive of the
Otitoii, the voicesoV two-thirds of rtie reprefenta
>ives of'the sovereignty of the States, and the
■ :rf a majority of the reprefentativis of the
». B/r, is CURSED \*-
&■' ' * 11
£ .
How far it la reconcilable with the principles of Kg
epublica; ism, or the duty of a good citizen, to th<
us.sk a fiipieme lav/ of the land, I PII3II not pre- arfi
«.nd to determine, If the treaty by a majoiity.of cle
W onlyj had been rejected, cutting on the other col
de would have be«» tailed tteafon against the rtea- cai
ielly of the people. 'y
We may fee by this sample what manner of fpi- foi
< rit a£luates the faction whose dortiination the good St
people o'f the United Stales have so often, and hi- thi
therto so favorably escaped. set
The Cenftitution and the Laws are considered tic
by the fa&ion as a nullity whenever they contravene ra;
their machinations and defigi\s. Did they really an
refpeft the people whom they pretend to idolize, th
would they i ifult then uuderftauding by cursing be
a lai- ratified by the authOoties, the in<
freely elected teprefentativesof the people S Would ex
they ciirfe a solemn compaA of the nation with
another, which nation has already given the th
lie to their predictions by fulfilling llipulations so
[ that this faflion repeatedly declared they never wi
. would comply with, if they did not consider the tii
people that " fwinilh multitude,'' which they have an
I so repeatedly and falfly charged the friends of go- w
vernment with denominating them ? No,.they w»u!d br
not. As this fafition, therefore, are the only per- pt
font in the United States that ever used the oppro- of
brious epithet when speaking of the people, it is re
bow beydnd conttadiftion, that they are K
the only persons thai eter entertained so contemptu- lo
ous an idea of them. E.
» . . so
For tie Gazette of the Unitcb States. o|
Mr. Editor,
AS I was passing thraugh one of the principal
ctree s in the titj ; my sensibility was Ihocked be
yond measure, at the barbarous conduct of a Cart
man towards his hotfe. The poor beast was hauling
a very heavy load up a small rife of ground, in
which lay b (tone oi tin .oniicoa (vii, and against '
which, one wheel of the cart was let ; the horse
t (for I viewed him with critical attention) made fe
i veral iueffedtual efforts 10 fur mount the obllacle ;he
r (trained until his laborious breathing was painful to p
the ears of those who ilood at a diltance ; and his ( .
inhuman mailer, instead of giving him time to reco-
'ver his breath and strength, or of removing the
ftoHe, turned the butt-end of his whip, which was (
t the size of a small sapling, and beat the horse over
- his head and eyes, until the sweat flowed from eve-
ry port, and the poor animal in an agony of dif- q
r trels, «oaned mojl bitterly.
e Goci of compajfion ! ctied 1, is it thus the works
II of thy hands are made the sport cf mans cruelty!
Is this the reward which the faithful and laborious
btute is to receive for his painful feivitude ? W3B it q
for the gratification-of the malignant paflions oi
human natuie, that the benevolent creator of the g
i, univeife, placed man as Lord of his lower works,
a and made the beasts of" the field, and the birds of
e the air, subservient.to his pleafurs and delight ?
This cruel practice is daily encrealing in our
iirects,>aiid when 1 have fe> n the attention of Uran
gers arrelled by fcencs as above described, I bave |
bluflied for the place that gave me birth, and lilent- ,
St ly asked myfelf, whether jhtle men could be the de
fce'idauts of the humane avid philanthropic PtN>». ■
* lam not a profelTioual and yet 1 confefs i
>s have ever been pleafeH with that part of their reli /
it g ,on » w hich impofesou its votaries, a sacred regard
l( j to the rights of hofj,itality and humanity, whether
ic they refpeft man or bead.
The painful sensibility cxpetienced by those, c
whole feelings are not callous to every feniimenvof g
0 humanity, is not the only evil which results from i
this abominable and helJifh practice ; but the effedt
, n which it his on the tender and impressive minds of 1
children, before whose eyes the exhibition is daily t
le and hourly made, is of a more serious and import
- taut nature. —Man is an imitative animal, and from r
j t " the reverence with which a child looks up to those 1
who are farther advanced on the stage of life, (in- i
e capable himfelt of investigating causes. and piinci- 1
pies,) he conljders every action and thing/done and 1
n f performed, as a fit of imitation.—Hence ari
a fes that propensity to cruelty, exercised by children (
n towards the puny tribes of anima/t and infeHs, they (
j, cannot torture a horse, but they can murder a jly. j
And the young mind becoming familiarized to acts t
ln of barbarity, both by example and practice, loses (
that tender sympathy, that keen sensibility at ano
t_ ther's woe, which is at once the highest ornament of
cs »uman nature, and the produdtive source of nume
[ lc rnus bleflingj and felicities ill private and fifcial
he life -
May it not be expected from the enlightened
ze policy of the present day, that some measures will
Q f be devised and adopted, that will at leait check,
if not completely eradicate, a pra&ice which is dif
!ly graceful to the chara£ter of raen and of chriftians.
j. The writer ot the foregoing remarks, invites the
attention of his fellow citizens to this intereding
„ g fubjeft, and he flatters himfelf, that the cause of
humanity will never want advocates in a oountry,
profefling a religion, which inculcates lipowits fol
fa lowers a sacred and Conscientious regard to the d'ic-
Q _ Utes of merify, juflict and bcnevolence.
STOCKBRIDGE, September if.
Description of a'-vety singular atmospheric phe
nomenon,'as seen at Stockbridge, and several neigh
boring places, on Thuifday, September 1, 1796.
The defer ipt ion is a« nearly aocurate, as could be
, given, by the judgment of an observer.
J Between the hours of 3 aud 4, P. M. the ftin
.j.' became gradually encompassed, by a circle, or ha
' 10, of usual size and appearance. Direflly under
the fun, was a mock-fun, in which was nothing re
markable, unless it were its unusual fitua'ion.
the mean time, the fun hecairle interfetted, at the
centre, by the segment of a white, luminous circle,
exactly parallel with the hoiizon ; which continued"
ra- extehdirg until within a few degrees of meeting,
he at the point opposite the fun, in the east. Above,
ive on either fide, at north and south, were two large
he fegmuits of circles, which, continued, wbiild have
ta- interfered each other, and the before n?entioned
he circle, at the fun and opposite point, obliquely,
he making, on ei'ther fide, an anglt of iz or< 15 de
grees. In these, the diffeteiitly colored rays of
r light were dir-rfifieJ, the red rap appearing ou
i the interior fide of the curwe. Above the fun. Ext
arfd exterior.to the halo, were two fcgmriit6 of cir
f cles, ps somewhat larger, size than the halo, and
r containing each, about 40, or 45 degrees. These
came 10 contadl, each with the other, and oblique* 0
!y with the halo, dircftly above the sim, so as to che
- form, on either fide, an angle of about 30 degrees. eve J
3 Still higher, aboHt the diftancc'of 4$ degrees from .
- the fun, and parallel with the halo, was another ln c
segment of a circle. In this and those lalt men
3 tioned, the colouis were separated, and the red " b
e rays interior. On either fide of the fun, at north ' lau
tr and south," about the diltance of 45 degrees, was " u
, the fegmeot of a rainbow inverted. Each of these al,
3 began, at a frtisll dillance above the horizon, and 3 ' e
e included about 25 or 30 degrees ; —red rap on the
, • r u ' ene
J exterior of the curve.
ri Previoufl) to the above described phenomenon,
e there had been little or no rain, for fevctal weeks, ' *•
t so that, at this time, thje drouth was severe. The ot
r weather was warm a» uftial, for the season. At the j? ,e
« time of the phenomenon, tew clouds were visible, afl
e and those very fmali. The atmosphere, however, le
i. was fuffufed with a thin vapour, which dimmed the ca
d brightness of the fl<y. ;As ttic phenomenon difap- r^ v
r- peared, the vapour increased, attended with a life e
>- of hazy clouds, which so obfi.ured the sub, r.s to re
is render it nearly or quite invisible before setting. 1 c
e Mod of the day following was rainy, the rain f»i- " a
j. lowing in moderate showers. cre
N. B. Any person \yho can give a fatisfadtory Uc
Solution of the above described appearance, will
oblige the friends of f fence by making it public. i
" a 1
aillTlß -
al BY THIS DAY's MAIL. !»
][ PETERSBURG, (Virg.) Sept. 16. J h .'
® The following is taken from a London paper of an
a theiSlhaf July, reecivci by the Iris, arrived at
£ CitV-PoiM. W >
' thi
London, July 18 in!
It was annnouticed fom« davi ago, that \he re<
? French intended to establish a direst communica
ls tion between the army ot the Upper Rhine.and that i"l
' of Italy. Kcllerman'a army appears to be deftin- p a
ie ed to form this jiinftioa ; and there are accounts at
,S which state, that in purftiance of that plan, he has th
~ r marched from the Vale of Aotta, in order to pene
irate through the Valteli fC, and the country of the set
Gnfons, to eftshlifh hmfelf in the lake of Con- O
fiance, and take Tyiol in the rear, with a view ot fei
forcing the impetial army to abandon that country.
' This end being attained, he will probably extend a V
! 6 chaio of pofnions tu the right/, along the lake of (°
" Garda, for the purpose of ellabbfhirig a communi 3 \
cation with Buonaparte; 3nd to the left towards T
16 Suabia, to enhble him to j iin she right wing of Mo
*!. rean'sarmy.
a If we may credit a 1 tter from St. Gall, of the
z6ih of last month, inserted in the lalt Paris papers,
iV he has already* crofted the country of the Grifons,
n " and made himfelf master of Bregentz, It remains
* c to be k'low'n, whether the detachments from the
Upper Rhine, destined to reinforce the army in Ty- B
e " rol, hive rtached the lakt of Conflance early enough S
N ' to check Kellerman's further progress ; and vvhe
.. the>- the archduke Charles, who by forced marches S
is advanciiig against Moreau. will ■ be able to pre
' vent tint general fiom eftablijiing birofelf v»Suabia.
cr " >5
The Fiench fetm to have gained great alcendan
cy at the eouit of Conltantinople ; and the Turks
of and they have lately mint'led their joy in celebrat
>tn ing the* victories of the French armies in'ltaly. J
rift Letters' from CoiiHaritinople tnerition, that the
of Porte is making exertions to augment its navy j
ily that his Catholic maj-rdy h'as been applied to for
»r- the purpose of ncgociatinjj a peace between the /
Turks and the-Knights of Malta; and that the (J
ife French ambafla.lor, in Vxpedtntion of the aid of f (
in- the Ottoman powef in the Mediterranean, n
ci- mifed to employ his good offices, to accomplish its 1
nd withes. "* h
The letters received from lord Bute by the last
en Corunna mails, contain the agreeable intelligence,
that in consequence of the remonltrance made by c
'y~ his lofdlhip, the Spanish government has counter- v
® manded the march of the troops who were ordered f
' to proceed to the lines of St. Roch. Thiscircum- 1
no " dance tends to ptbve, that the apprehensions of a f
0 mifunderftandiirg between our court and that of v
n . c Madrid! are without foundation.
Dial r
The mountain of Knohis, where the French ]
led have eflDblilhed themselves, is rhe fame height which t
vill in the- military annals of Guftavus Adolphus, is j
ck, known by the name of the Swedish Lines, because '
dif- his army was encamped there in the thirty years war,
ins. This position is highly advantageous, inasmuch as J
the it affords Moreau easy means to spread his army all
ing over Suabia. Kehl is four leagues diflant from thii
of nountain.
4#
fil. BALTIMORE, September 20. ,
An a«miverfary meeting of the Abolition So
ciety, took place yesterday at the Baltimore aca
demy, w)icre"!>n oration, appropriate to the oc
effion, was delivered by Mr. James J Wilmer.
die- Many arguments were adduced againfi the
gh cy and barbarity of the cuilom of slave holding—
96. a cuilom which humanity has but too long wept
I be over, but which a future generation will blush to
fee recorded to the eternal difgraec of. their fore
ftin fathers—of men who fought and bled for " hea
ha- veiv's ftrlt gift," but to become tyrants in turn—
ider who could trample down every shackle but that of
ve- avarice'; and hiyl down every despot but them
in selves ! Such inconfif'ency can never stand the ted
the either of reafun or of policy ; and the impartial
cle, finger of Time will point indignant at it, as one
ued° of theblackeft spots that evct beclouded the fun of
ng, American glory.
jve, It i* hoped the L?ftiflature will aid the philan
irge t'nropic views of this humane institution, sndamer.d
lave ftveral law 6 \<hich bear snreafonably heavy on the
rted unforturißte blacks, to the disgrace of our penal
ely, code. politicians, they will fee the neceflity of
de- ameliorating their fiuiatioii, as far as a humane and
of good policy can didta'ic.
:
A.
v
NEW-YORK, September 21.
Extriil of a letter from Port-au-Prince, listed August
s6, 1796.
" Deaf Friend,
" Every thing here wears a better profpeft than
of late : Tlie sickness is over, provifnmj arcroOch
cheaper, and we have hopes of fihe crops, anti arc
every where fuccefsful. \
" Jeremie having been attacked by the Brigand*
in confcauence of treacheroos communications from
within the fott, was gloriously defended by the in
habitants and the Britilh, whochaftifed them by a
(laughter of about 800, obliging- their chiefs, Dcf
fourneaux and Rigaud to run away with equal fhan>e
ar.d precipitation, although their deluded followers
are taught to believe them the braved and grcateft
generals; indeed it may be so in matters ot ucV
ehery and intrigue, not in the field of Mars.
«' About the fame time Cour,tde Bruges, with
the Legion de Montalembert, and a large body of
other emigrants on the borders of the
met Tonfiaint LoUverture, having five thousand in
fantry and four hundred cavalry under his command,
he had been ordered by Sonthonax, with his pro
clamation, inviting the emigra'nts'and inhabitants to
revolt and join him. The brigands, with the great
est confideac, attacked the emigrant troops at Mi
rebalais, but the former totally ruutedthe infanry [
a considerable part of the cavalry daltardly ran a
way, and facrificed the main body j tv *lve • hun
dred of which were found dead oa the field of bat
tle ; the remainder were fcatteved and died is the
j woods and drowneii in the Artibonite, Major
Ogorman writes to that he had never Teen fucli
a number of dead since hostilities commenced in
this lfland. The pursuit was rapid and truly bril
liant, such as to secure a fuccefiion of vi&ories.—
Tins defeat enabled the coynt de Bruges to enter
y the Sp.inifh co'ony } distant 7 leagues from Mireba
lais, 25 trom Cape Francoij, 22 from Port-au Piince
f and 64 from St. Domingo the capital". When
. they have taken post at this place, a communication
will be opened with St Cento Chri'ii, as soon as
the British fleet has arrived there, whither I am
informed feveial (hips of the line have gone, at ihc
f request of its inhabitants.
"On entering the Spanish colony, many of the
[ inhabitants fled, until being apprised of the r«fpe£l
. paid and proteflion given to those who remained
s at their homes, when they all wturned and took
s the oath of allegiance to his Britannic Majesty.
" Count de Bruges speaks of his army as cumpo
c fed of real heroes, ar.d with great plaudits of Major
Ogormah, hoping his tttajefty will ever be as well
f served by his new*and faithful fubjefls, as on the
late fucceiV&l events, commencing at Mirebalais.—
a Vanfou, who a year ago was in goal kir high trea
if son, has made his escape, it is said was the head of
a parry to rife in a revolt at the firll appearing of
t Touffaint'i army."
Tnjn-rrg-jmif
GAZETTE OF THE VNITRD STATES MARINE LIST.
( • .
PHILADELPHIA., September as,
ie ARRIVED, day*.
Brig George, Marriner, Kingston 30
h Schr. Nancy, Lord, Petetlburg 6
; Arrived rt the Fort.
•s Ship American, Shalcrofs, Tuiks 1/land
c . Two Brothers, Henderfon, Demarar*
3 . Swift, Norman, ' Hull
Schr. Helena Plurallead, Green, Port au-Princ«
The Ship Golden Age, Earl atrived at Kings.
ton, (Jam.) in 16 day* from this port.
'• Newiern, September 3.
Extia&from the Log-Bookofcapt. Jereiiuah Read*
ing of the schooner Ann, who arrived here on
' j Wednesday last from Antigua.
°< At sea, in lat, 31, 20, August 20, 1796, at 5
ie A. M. saw a brig to Leeward, which fecmed to
ie Iteer S by E. winds at N. E. and light. She
of soon sprung her luff and hoisted her ensign at her
o- main top-gallant mall head, wanting to (peak us.
ts We immediately bore down and perceived (hc'haJ
her boat out. We hailed her, and found it was the
ift brig Nancy of Philadelphia, 8 days from the capes,
. e> bound to Port-au-Prince, belonging to Mr. Fran«
3 y cis Coppinger, and commanded by William Belfher,
. r . who hadjuraped orer the larboard gang way about
e( j 6 o'clock and swam away from the vessel, after hav
t,. ing talked to the mate about his taking leave of
a some of his friends. Before they could get to him
0 f with the boat he funk.
The mate hailed me, and said he wanted to speak
to f.ii, if I would be kind enough to heave to, which.
c h I did, and went on board of him, and advised hiro ,
c _h to proceed on his voyage, after finding the brig»
'* papcis, which heagreed t<*.; his name is Rebert
nfe Tate.
ar > Baltimore, September 20.
as Ship Harmony, Robinson, St. Croi*
a ]l Brig Grace, Thompson,/ Petit-Treu
his Maria, Wilmans, Ethrtngton, Jamaica
New York, Sept. 21.
Arrived Schooner Corporal Trim, Wells, Jamai
ca, 23 dsys. 1
She was boarded to the fouthwatd of Cape-Hen.
ry by an Engli(h frigate, who overhauled his pa.
ca per# and difmifled him politely.—Spoke the brijf
oc ' Two Friends, fram Kingston, Jamaica, off the
' ' Havanna, bound to Newburyport ; all well.
J 1 Left at Antona, the schooner Lucky Jojin^
from flarbadoes, Capt. Elliot,
rpt r
to 1 M. ■ ■ 'i mi.—
**' 3 -1 U C K S.
ea
"7f Six per Cent.
Three per Cent. . 10/5 f int.
' m : 44 per Cent 147 ( off!
telt 5 1 per Cent. --- - - ... 16/4J
tial Deferred Six per Cent. .... X 3/&
BANK United States, . - - - 19 to 20 pr. ccot.
r —— Pennsylvania, .... jfc to'tj
'® — North America, - . - . 451046 ,
Insurance Comp. North-America, 37 i-s per cent. adv.
an- Pennsylvania, par to » per ccat. Av.
th c COURSIi Of EXCHANGE.
, na j On London, at 30 days, per £.100 fterl. par.
j- at 60 days, par to 162 1-2
■ at 90 days, 161 a 16a i-»
Amfterdam,6o days, per guilder, 41
, 90 days, 40LANDING,
on board the Brig REBECCA, Dominic Divine,
Master, at Philip Care's Wharf, 4ird for Sale by the' H
Sublcriber, _ f
London Particular Madeira WINK-, a
In Pipes, Hogsheads and Quarter Calks.
are in the above parcel io Hhds. of CHOICE X.
WINE, fit for immediate use.
Robert Andrews,
Sept. 6. mw&f No. 86, So, Wharves.
THIS DAT PUBLISHED,
By J. ORMROD, No. 41, Chefnut-areet,
(Price 12 1-2 Cents)
The President's Address en
To the People of the United States,
Announcing his intention of retiring from public life
at the expiration of the prefcilt conftitutioual term of
presidency. r
. September 20. d
JTfST PUBLISHED,
From the Press of MOREAU DE ST. MERY,
And to be had at the principal Booksellers in the city,
(Price five five-penny bits)
A Humourous Pamphlet, entitled
The Political Maflacre; a c
Or, Unexpeßed Qbfervations on the IWritings of our
present ferihblers.
By QUICKSILVER,, Author of the Bine Shop. 1.1
Embellilhed with a euriou3 Caricatur®. 4®
Sept. 19. dtf ~
-t- — 03
Brokers Office, and ; n .
COMMISSION STORE.
No. 63 South Third street, opposite the national new Bank.
SAMUEL M FRrtUNCES and JOHN VAN REED,
, have entered into co-partnership, under the firm of
FRAUNCES & VAN REED, in the business of Brokers,
Conveyancers and Commiflion merchants. They buy and
fell on commission every species of flock, notes of hand,
bills of exchange, houses and lands,SSec.- o ,
Monev procured on deposits, &c. &c. all kinds e f
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatness and
dispatch; accounts adjufled, and books fettled, in the
mod correct manner. Conflant attendance-will be given.
They solicit a share of the public favor ; they are deter
mined to endeavour to deserve it.
N. B. The'utntoft secrecy observed.
SAMUEI, M. 'FRAUNCES,
JOHN VAN REED
f'hilad. Angtift 27, * m&wtf _
BRANDY, \
OF lft and 4th proof, and equal in quality to that import- ci
ed from Francc, may be had ot the fubferiber at his Diiii'-
Jery, No. 115, Story or New-flreet, between Third and d:
Fourth-ftreels, where the public, upon application, may
judge for themselves, 4nd will find it an obje£t well worth m
their attention. aI
RUM and GIN in any quantity, for exportation or home
consumption, and of fuperio*. quality —by Q |
Thomas Cave. w
P.S. RYE, MALT, BARLEY, and MELASSES, will
be purchased, or taken in exchange for spirits, upon appli- tt
cation as above. Also any quantity of Claret or other wiue a]
fit for diflitlation.
Aueufk2gh. 1706. ' M4W p
Now Publijhing by the Printer, a<
At No. 3, Lstitia Court, delivering to Subscribers, hi
and to be had at the different Book-Stores in this City, re
Berriman' & Go's al
CHEAP AND'ELEGANT EDITION OF tf
The HOLY BIBLE.
Containing the-Old and Naw e:
Tercamcnts and the Apocrypha, with marginal notes and re- j a
c rences. An Index ; or an account of the most rejnarkable h
pailagesin the'old and neyv Teftamcnt, pointing to the places
wherein they happened, and to the places of set iptute wherei.
in they arc recorded. —A Table 01 Time.—Tables of scrip
ture mealures, weightsand coins : with an appendix,contain
ing the method of calculating its measures of surfaces
hitherto wanting in Tualifesm this fubjett. A Table of Offices
aad Conditions of men. f
CONDITIONS J
1. The size of this Edition will be a LARGE FOLIO, o
printed on a beautiful new type, and good paper, made par- p,
ticularlyfor it, It will be published in not to ex
ceed $0, one of which will be delivered weekly to fubfciib- 2
crs, at a quarter of a dollar. Those fttbfcribers who prefer
receiving the work complete, v/illbe attended to by fignifying f
the fame on any of the fubfeription papers in rhe Bookflores
in this city. p
2. There willbe an advance in the price, on fubferibing J,
after the firft of August next. (i
.3. In the courfeof the Work willbe given an elegant <{
Frontifpieci—From an Engraving of the celebrated artist,
Gricnion.
Berriman & Co. gratefully acknowledge the very liberal "
encouragement they have met with; and havereaTonto believe, "
that the cxeeution of their edition will answer every cxpec- u
tation, and speak its own praise. "
May 26 "
• <t
Philip Nicklin Sc Co. "
HAVE FOR SALE,
Souchong '
Hyson Skin J
Young Hyson > FRESH TEAS
Hyson and S j
Imperial "
Yellow Nankeens
China Ware, assorted in Boxes and Chests
Qui;kfilver
Bandanno Handkerchiefs of excellent quality in
ehefts
London Market ") MADEIRA WINE
London particular >in pipes, hogfteads, &
New-York Market J quarter calks
. Teneriffe Wine in pipes and
Sugar Candy by the Bo*
Sail Canvas No. 1 a 8
Lead in fhee'ts
3 Calks of CutleryafTorted
A few chests of Mauchefter Goods, ifTorted tfaick
fetß, cords, striped Nankeens, &c.
3 Small packages oi' black feu ing-silk*
8 Tierces Virginia Snake-root.
Nails assorted in calks
July t8 mwScf
» • • Mr, FRANCIS,
[Of the New 1 beatrc)
T HAKES this opportunity of returning thanks to his
scholars and to the public. Mr. Franc:* intends,
on his return from Maryland, to open a public aca
demy for dancing, Lpnn a plan entirely new. He
flatters himfelf his attention to his pupiU hi
therto renders any promises of conducing his future
schemes on the most liberal and itrifled tcntis, of pro
priety, totally HncecefTary.
N. B. Private tuition ai tiivaL
june 5 law j
. ' »
JOHN MILLER, Jim. & Co.
No. S, CHESNUT STREET, t
' Have Imported in the late vessels fVam Europe, &c. w*
AND HAVE lOR SALE, mV
A general afifortment of GOODS, Juitable to the fcafon vfo<:
Amongst which arc, Sou
BROAD -and narrow CLOTH 3,
Plain und twill'd COATINGS,
Rose striped and point BLANKETS,
FLANNELS and BAISES,
HATS assorted in cases,
IRISH LINENS,
INDIA GOODS, generally,
A Consigned Invoice of IRONMONGLk f, j
CJbftlprifiag a capital afTortnient to open a ftprc—
ding Thirty Cash of NAILS. This invoice will be ioid
i entire on very-advantageous terms, >
September 20.
, Lottery
FOR raifmg fix thousand fix hundred and
dollars and fifty cents, by a deduction of fifteen per
cent from the prizes, and not two blanks lo a prize, viz
1 Prize of sobo dollars is dollars 5000
x rooo • 1000
i JOO 5 00
5 200 IOCO
ao '100 aoo °
09 50 495°
200 ai- sooo 1
2000 10 20,000
5 Last drawn numbers of 1000 dollars each, 5000 r1
3;
, 2331 Prizes. 4-4,45° —
4018 Blanks. J
6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44>45° i
By order of the Directors of the Society for eflab.ifh- Tic
ing Ufeful Manufactures, the fuperinteildants of the Pat- tick
erfon Lottery have requelted the Managers to offer the ■
foregoing Saheme to the public, and have directed them or 1
to refund the money to those persons who have purchased any
\in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets ]
in this Lottery. _ vat
; Hie lottery has actually commenced drawing, and will T«
continue until finifhed. A lift ot the Blanks and Prizes hoi
' may be seen at the office ot William Blackburn, No. 64 it is
south Second street, who will giveinformadon where tick- {
ets may be procured. thei
Dated this 17th day of June, 1796. the
J. N• GUMMING, 7 A 1
JACOB R. HARDENBERG, Managers. the
JONATHAN RHEA, J wil
. dtf eo, Un
— 1
Samuel Richardet,
RESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen nHI
• Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY dra
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEE HOUSE in the the
city of Philadelphia; the
The Subscription Room will be furnifhed with all the j n g
daily papers-publiihed in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos- '
' ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com- 3re
1 mercial citias of Europe—They will be rugularly filed 0 f
and none permitted to be taken away on any account. mo
Tea, Coffee, Soupes; Jellies, IceCreams, and a variety
of French Liquors; together with the usual refrefhrnents. the
will at all times be procured at the bar. He
1 Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with a f
- the choicest of Wines, Spiutuoos Liquors, and the most ba
" approved Malt Liquors from London and other breweries. f r ; (
The Larder will befuppjied with the p'rime and earliest j c £
productions of the Season. ,
Large and small Parties, or single Gentlemen, may be c 0
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at ha
, hours most convenient to thcmfelves—a cold Collation is dr:
, regularly kept for conveniency, the Billof Fare to be had ca ,
at the bar. th«
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifhed, and
the utmoftattention paid to cleanliness, and every other
requisite. j al
SaMoel RichardetWill behappy to reccive, and 0 ;
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
- large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges —
e himfelf thaft nothing on his part (hall be wanting to pre
s fervethat patronage with which he has been so diltinguifh-.
Iv ingly honored. <
Philadelphia, April 19. ' mwf p
' Treasury of the United States.
NOTICE is hereby given to £ll persons who are or
may be Creditors of the United States, for any sums
1, of the Funded Debt, or Stock, baring a present interef. of fix
per centum per annum.
1 ft, Th3t pursuant to an A<St of Congress palfed on the g
- 28th day of April, 1796, intitled an aiit in addition to an
r ift, intituled " Ar. ad: making further provision for the
5 support of public credit, and for the redemption of the
s public debt," the said debt or flock will be reimbursed and
paid in manner following, to wit. " First, by dividends
■' « to be made on the last days of March, June and Septcm- fr
t " ber for the present year, and from the year ope thousand
" seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year one thou- ~
' " sand eight hundred & eighteen inclusive, at the rate of
,] " one and one Jialf per centum upon the original capital.
c " dividends to be made on the last' day of
> " December tor the present year, and from the year one _
" thousand seven hundred and sinety-feven, to the year :■
" one tho'ufand eight hundred and l'cventecn inclusive, m
_ " the rate of three and one half per centum Upon the ori- p'
" «;inal capital; and by a dividend to be ma e on the last
" day of December, in the year one thousand eight hun
" dred and eighteen, of such sum, as will be then ade
" quite, acrording to the contrad, fer the final redemp
, " tion of the said flock."
2d. All distinction between payments on account of n
Interefl and Principal being thus abolished by the establish- *-
ment. of the permanent rule gf reimbursement abovu do- 3
scribed, it has become necessary to vary accordingly ,t.he ;. c
powers of attorney for receiving dividends; &= public
creditors will therefore obfervc that the following form
is established for all powers of attorney which may be
granted after the due promulgation ot this notice, viz.
in KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, tbni
1 of
do make, eonjtftvt* and appoint
6 ®/ true dnd laivfrJ At- •
torney, forme, and In rr.y name, to receive the dividends zvhlch are,
or Jbajt be payable according to la.iv, on the (here deferring the' *
llock) Jianding in tny na?ne in the books of (here describing the
books of the Treasury or the Commiffiotier of Loans, \
where the stock is credited) from (here insert the com
ment(iment and expiration of time for which the power of V
, k _ attorney is to amtinue) tvlfb power alfi ,an aUnrey or rttor- f 1
hUs undir !iia,fcrtbat purpose to mate andfuljliiuic, and to do all ,
Uwful aUt reqwjttefor effeftwg thefnmifa, hereby ratify, n„ and
confront all that my said Attorney or tufMihtfjjbM lulofxl
ly dc, by -virtue thereof. t
In WHnfs hereof, I Lave hereunto set my Ha,id and Seal the b
day of m the war
Sealed euid Delivered
in
BE IT KM OWN, that wtle day of
his ******perfomaUj tame
J s rail tin namui and acknowledged tbt above letter of attorney to le
9 If is sB and eUed, J 1
He U i»h:recf I bane beretuttofct my Hand and affix
, . Seal lie day and year last vf re said.
Givtn under my Hand at Philadelphia, this twen- '
t tth dayof July i 7 96, pursuant to diteaiens ,
; ftom the Secretary of the Treasury
SAMUEL MEREDITH,
1 reafurcr of tie United States.
' j tl
t J
A Manufactory FOR SALE.
'. * t
r.SroSJ conation, and igg' ' \
materials, and may be kt to work -mmed ate>• Kr.on,
wifn to pun'hafe, are rcquefted to apply a. No v 3< & (
South Secbnd Street. ttf tf tor
September 13.
City of Waihington.
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11,
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT 0 1 THE
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent ? 20,000 dollars, & £
[ dwelling-house, ) calh 30,000, are )
I ditto 15,000 & calh 25,000 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 & cacti 15,000 .-jo,ooo
1 ditto 10,000 & calh to,ooo 20,000
j ditto j ,OOO & cadi 5,000 la,l 00
1 ditto 5,0a0 & calh 5,000 10,000
1 cash prize of 10,000
2 do. 5,000 each, are - jo,ooo
3 10 do. 1,000 - - 10,000
j 20 do. 500 - - 10,000 qu
3 00 do. 100 - - 10,000 1 'tin
> 2M do. 50 - - 10,000
j 4CO do. 25 - 10,000 ds
) 1,000 do. 20 " 20,000
> 15,000 do. 10 - 150,000
> 18,739 Prizes. l^'
Blanks.
50,0c0 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
1 N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity of
■ Tickets, the prize of 4G,0p0 dollars will be the la .t drawn
■ ticket, and the 30,000 th.e iast but one :
: Ahd approved notes, fecufiag payment in either money
: or prizes, in ten days a'.*: _r drawing, will be received for —
' any number not less than 30 tickets.
> This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of the pri
vate buildings to he trebled in the City of Waihington—
1 Two beautiful designs a.re already felefled for the entire
5 fronts on two of the public iquares; from these prawings f ,
1 it ispropofed to erecf two c.entreand four corner buildings, <
• as soon JS possible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, In ££
the mannerdefcribed in the* fclieme for the Hotel Lottery.
A nettdedu&ion of five per cent, will be made to defray
■ the neceflary cxpenfes of printing, &c. and the surplus
will be made a part of the fund intended for the National
University, to be creeled within the city of Wafhiiigton.
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
fold off.—The money prizes will be payable in thirty days
after it is finifhad ; and any prizes for which, fortunate
numbers are not produced within twelve months after ths
r drawing is closed, are to be confidercdas given towards
e the fund for the University ; it? being determined to fettle "T
the whole buftnefs in a year from the ending of the draw- \
" ing, and to take up the bonds given e? security. co
The real securities given for the payment of the Prizes, all
are held by the President and two Directors of the Bank an
f of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a- 1 :i:
mount of the lottery. ft(
V The twenty four gefttlemen who by appointment of dc
'« the late Commissioners aflifted in the management of the n)
Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake this arduous task. a r
'* a fe'eond time on behalf of the public ; a fufficient num c,\
ber of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the w
• friends to a National University and the other federal ob- ar
• je<£ts may continue to favor the design. C
By accounts received from the difierent parts of the. hi
e Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets in
t have been sent for sale, the public ai>e the js
' s drawing will speedily commense; and that the care and p :
d caution unavoidably necessary to insure a fafe difpyfai of u:
the tickets, has rendered the i'iiort suspension indifpenlable. d'
d SAMUEL HLODGKT- at
r Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; o la
James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter Oilman, Boston b;
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells hi
'' Cooper's Ferry. e® tl
;s
- Watson's Answer to Gibbon. g,
' - 1 r<
JUST RECEIVED, "
And for lale by J. ORMROD, No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet,
Apology for Christianity,
In a feriet of Letters, addrejfed to
* s ' Edward Gibbon, Es<^.
x Author of the History of the Decline and Fall of the
Roman Empire:
ie By R. JVATSONy d. d. f. r. s. Bishop of tandaff.
(Price 75 cents bound )
Watson's Answer to Paine,
,d To be had at the fame place.
Is The enemies of Religion are awaJte ! Let not her •,
I- friends Jleep. I
id Sept. 1. ' - mw&ftf c
r f RAY N EITA Y L O R,
II - Music PR 9 FES son,
No. 96, North-Sixth Stref.t.
TJ ESPECTFULLY informs his Scholars, that he has
ar Cv re-commenqed his attendance after the summer va
cation ; and, as usual, teaches Ladies SLaging and the
Piano Forte. Sept. 3. *jS j
~ NOTI C l
' E 'HRSubfcribef, having been redtked in his circum
X stances, by sundry misfortunes, aird-teing, thersby
Q f' nuable to fatisfy his juit debts, hereby gives notice to his
ij. Creditors and to all persons concerned, that he intends to
le- 3fP ! y to the General Assembly of Maryland at their next
j,. fellion to be held on the firft Monday of November next.
U c for the benefit of an adl of insolvency.
rtn WILLIAM EDMONDSON
v e Eafton, ift of the Qth month. 1796. lawtiftMN
'bnt To be fold,
A PLANTATION, iifthetown of Woodbury, comi
ty of Glcucefter, ans llate ol" New-Jersey, contain
" ing about one hundred and fifty acres ; a suitable pro.por
tion of which is woodland and improved meadow. A
, e great part 01 the arable'laad is in a high state of cultiva
c tion, and very natural to the production of Red Clover.
ns ' On said plantation there is a genteel two-story brick house,
m " with four rooms on a floor, and a- good dry cellar urfder
the whole ; together with a barn, coin-cribs and carriage
houfe. The garden is large, and contains a good collei;.
' tion of the best kinds of grlfted and inoculated fruit trees ;
fxl 'he orchard ccmfifh °f about three hundred grafted apple
" " trees. Any person inclined to purchase said premiles, may
be informed of the terms by applying to
ANDREW HUNTER.
Ny -9 $ I
To be Sold,
At* A 'j. I3>B, North Second-Street, and by several of ■
a f c the Apothecaries in this City.
of the right to remove pains and ixiflamma j
a x _ t'ons from the human b»dy, as fecurcd to Dr. EUSHA
™ PhRKJNS, by patent, with instruments and dircßioas r.c- i
ceflaty for the This mode of treatment is particu
larly ufeful in relieving pains in the head, face, teeth j breast,
" j! ' s fide, stomach, back, rheumatifrtw, recent gouts, &c. &c.
Not-.vithftanding of this pra&ice, it is not pre-J
fumed but there .are cases in which this and every "Sthct
'■ remedy may l.jmetimci fail.
i ;
Washington Canal Lottery,
N°. r.
WHEREAS the State vf Maryland has
the to raise twenty-i'x thoufnrtd
two hundred, and fifty dollar.s, for (he purpose of cutdn;;
a Canal through the; City of Waflnnj>ton, fro.*n th
tomacto theEaftern Branch Harwaur.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz ■'I Prize of 20,0<yp dollar*, 20,000
I ditto 10,000 10,000
7 last drawn ■> Q 35,000 .
Tickets, each j
6 tiitto 1,000 6,000
io ditto 4°o 4,000
20 ditto 100 2,<£>3
55 ditto 50 2,750
5750 ditto 12
To be raised for the Canal, *6,250
5850 Prizes, 175,(500
1*650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
1750Q Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
jPjr' The Commilfioners haye taken the Securities ic
quired by the aforefaid aist for the puni&ual payment oi
the prizes.
The drawing kl thisLotterywiHcoranieiice, withoyr
delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are rot demanded in fix months after th*
drawing is tinifhed, shall be confidcred as relinquished for
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed) NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, o/D.
LEWIS l>2liLOlS,
V * GEORGE WALKER,
WM. M. DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City ef Washington, Feb. 11. $
Mordecai Lewis
HAS FOR S-ALE,
NANKEENS, long and ihort.
China, well affortcd.
Quicksilver.
Diapers
(Julias.
Bandano Handkiffclycfi.
iioll Brimstone.
Sept. 6. tt&fim
For Sale,
A LARGE ELEGANT AMD WELL FINISHED
Three-story Brick House,
(The late residence of General Walter Stewart)
WITH a LOT of GROUND thereunto belonging,
the weft fide of Thira-ftreet, near Union-ftrect
containing iniront 3a feet, ahd in depth 100 feet, to an
1 alley leading into Unioii-ftrcet. The house is 51 feet front v \
and 50 feet deep \ t the several rooms contained in it are
■ latge, commodious, and completely finilhed; the twofuft
stories are each 13 feet high ; there are 20 mahogany
F doors in the hgufe ; a geometrical staircase, with mahoga
: ny. rails and a good iky -light. The kitchen is in the cell
- ar, which is spacious and convenient, and finiihed with zg
oven, and pantries, a servants' hall and large
: wine-cellar adjoining the kitchen, in front of which is-.n
- area in which there is a pump. The yard 1 vaulted.
Communicating with the said building is a neat thrce-ilorj
1 brick hoafe, on the north fide of Unioti-ftreet, contain
s ing 30 feet front by ao feet deep; the lower part of which
" is at present occupied as, a compting-houfe, and the upper
1 part divided into wjiil-finifhed large chambers. This house
f may at a small expense be converted into a convenient
. dwelling: The street door is very handsome, and the front
and back have Venetian window-lhutters. Adjoining the
0 laflhotife, upon the lotrbelonging to the firft, are erected
bathing-rooms, &c. There are likevvife very good coach,
s house and stables finilhed equal (or nearly so) with any ?n
the city, on a lot containing on Union street 3P ' L '''' ■*'- tl
in depth on the weft fide of said alley 52 feet. There arc ■
good cellars undei the whole of the buildings, andawiuc
room over part of theftable, with a hay-loit over the re j
mainder. Fbr further particulars enauire of
EDW4RI) bON'S-.LL & Co.
' At their Office No. 64 Dock-street. between Walnut & Pear
t'&f ® (Ircets.
6th month 24th, 1796.
• F 0 R S A L E.
p A PLANTATION,
ABOUT it, utiles from this City, Situate in Ahitig
ton Townfiiip, Montgomery-County ; eofitaiir.ing
70 acics, a new (lone house, two stories high, £ roorm on a
floor, fire places in each, a ltone kitchen and stone spring;
r house, over an excellent spring of water, a barn, stables,
Iheds, barracks, &c. A large ayple orchard, and a variety of
other fruit, about 12 acres of good meadow well watered,
and wood fyfEcient for fire, and fencing the place. Poffcfli
on may be had the ift of April next. Proocrty in this city
will betaken inexchapg , or MOkRIS and NICHOLSONS
Notes in ppyment. Enqu'uie at No. 3,7* Arch-Stieer
Philadelphia, September 13, 1796. ttftf
£ W ANT E D,
! For any term from one to four years,
A HOWSE, pleasantly fituatcd In any of the principal
fireets within the pavement, Und not very dillant flora
n the State-House, capable of accommodating a l'mallfami
by ly ; the house mull have stables and coach-house, and
bis would be required to be ready by the firft week in No
to vember next —Euquire of the printer,
:xt' Sept. 14. ttf
St. , r : ■ .
F 0 R S A L Ji,
in A very Valuable Ellate,
CALLED T IVI TTEN HA M, fifaate in th<!
township of Upper Derby, and county of Delaware,
1 j-a miles from Philadelphia], and lwtf a mile from the
in _ new Western road t containing 230 acres 9! excellent land,
or 45 of which are good watered-meadow, 90 of prime wood-,
A land, and the reft arable of ths firft quality. There arc
V 2 on the premises a good two story brick house, with 4 rooms
* on a floor, and cellars under .the whole, with a pump-well
J. ' of excellent water ill front ; a large frame lotyn,
j„ r ' and other conveiticnt buildings ; a Imbke'-houlc i-one,
spring-house; two good apple orchards, aad one resch
es. The fields are all.in clover, except those immec'.tHtcly
. under tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advantage
,i e * of water in each of them, wl.itrender» it peculiarly con
lay venient for grazing.
The situation is pleasant and healthy, and from
cultivation of theland, the good neighboarhood, and the
vi tinity to the city, it is very suitable for a gentleman's
country feat.
The foregoing is part of the ellate of Jacob Harmmi,
, b j l.ecceafed, and ofl.re-d forfale hv
J Mordecai Lewis,
™ Oa. 9. tt&f . Surviving E.tceutpr.
H A .
r.c- ..nig. —L_ .n
icu- , I T
tan, PRINTED B Y JOHN FENN O,
prc-i —No. 110 —
tbci I * .
CHESNW T-STREET.
M J [Priec Dollars per AnnuijO
I '