& Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
PfuMBES 1242."] - THURSDAY EVENIKG, SEPTEMBER 1, 1796. ' <V fVozr/MsX.
J T -J
For Fredericksburg,
Or any port on Rappahannock liver,
The fall failing SCHOONER
«®.»<<* - ■ Nelson Hugene, mailer; a remarka
ble good vessel, not one year old, the mod material part
of her frame being loeuft, mulberry, and black waln'j),
K®r furtfkKparrjEi^ri.apply to laid snstfter or the owr.-r
onboard at Nina's wharf:
■Jj" To fail on Friday next.
Xuglirt 3° 4t
ROSS & SIMSON,
HAVE FOR S ALE,
EXCELLENT FOURTH P ROOF
Jamaica Spirits;
The fine, fad-failing febooner
-«vV-.. j-SiiJr-a* Of Baltimore, about 140 tons burthen.
August 29. alf
For Sale or Charter,
TKE fast.sailikg ship
LIGHT-HORSE,
at Me/T. J. & R Wain's wharf &
two hundred and seventy tons bnrthen, a ftcut, firon
vessel, and well feund. For terms apply to
Jcjfeph Anthorty & Co-
Sept. I. dtf
•-—
At South-fireet wharf,
TTHLL BE LANDED, Friday, 19th inft. Au-uft, 1
xl '•y-JjjX' -hl«ipi., .Ij u.it~JaaKyrar
from Port-au-Prince,
300 Hhds. COFFEE,
>0 Hhds. SUGAR.
Also, the cargo of the Swedish brig Guflaf Adolphe,
capt. Ramfre, from Gibraltar,
ift and 4th proof Brandy, in pipes and hhds.
Hazle Nuts in sacks
St. Übes SALT, for sale by
PETER* BLIGHT.
For Charter,
* The said brig
|Gustaf Adolphe,
'■? > A Swede, a Msditerranean pjfs,
"a very fine vefiil, about zoo tons bur
'lien. Aug. 18.
rou SALE,
&X The (hip STAR,
John Vanxeman, M-after,
T Y,NG at Walnut-A.rset wharf, Philadel-
JLj phia built, cf live oak and cedar, will
carry about 3200 parrels, is two years old, and in corn
plea-' order to receive a cargo —For terras apply to
.THOS.&JIHN KETLAND.
Who have also for sale said vcffels cargo—confiding of—
\vi:«l..w GTais, 6 by ? to 16 by .11.
Pipes in boxes '
Earthen-Ware in crates.
Grindflonei, Coals, Whiting, &c.
a 9 §
For Sale,
Or for Charter to the Weft-Indies,
T li-E SHIP
C E R r: s,
Philadelphia Built,
OF Live Oak and Red Cedar, burthen about 3500 bar
rels, now discharging at Latihicr's wharf. This vel
fel is in excellent repair, well fouud and will bear a tho
rojglu-x mination, andasfoon as discharged will be rea
dy to take in a cargo. For terms apply to \
John Vaughaa.
J"'y 20 f_
. FOR SALE.
The Bri s punch,-
An entire new veflel, built, finifhed and fitted
in the bed msnoef. One hundred and thirty-fix
tons burthen, and will fail remarkably fall. For
terms apply to Mr. N. Sage, at the George tavern,
or to JOSEPH ANTHONY & Co.
AuguJ 26, 1796. jlO.
For Sale or Charter,
B O S T O N,
BURTHEN about 7-000 Bbls. of flour—fhe may be sent
to lea at a final! cxpence, her fails and rigging being in
very good order—apply to
James Campbell, or
George Latimer.
■April 39, ' 5
CABLES,
From 16 to 5 j inches* for sale by
f jeremiah Warder,
July § No 1 z north Th-flirdreet.
' TO BE SOLD,
A pair of black Coach Horses.
For terms inquire at No. u Quirry-ftrcet.
Auguil 30. • tf
Hex} luill bf fuhmit!.-d to public infpeHion,
The PROSPECTUS
Of a New Periodical .Work entitled
»7he United. States Magazine,
And Repository of.Ufeful and Entertaining Kifow
ledge;
Which will be conduced on a new, liberal, and interest-
number containing belidcs the ulual quan
'ity of letter press, two neat engraviijjje, Soda favourite
fongfet to r.-.ufio.—Priec only one fourth Qfa dollar ; the
publication wtommerict on the ifl of'Febrnary i;y7, and
continued monthly.
26. d.
iv a A' r s jy,
■/>" APPI\L ?• 71C to'the- Printing Bujimfs.
at tiiia Office. rtvg. 59
French Goods.
Received by the Sally, Mitchell, from Havre-de-
Grace,
j £ a s„ Ladies' SHOES of all colors forts and Gzts
I Ditto white arjd colored Silk STOCKINGS
I Ditto Tine LAWN
I Ditto heft fir.* CAMBRIC
I Ditto Laiies' beil fiwnmy and Gre> <*b!e Gloves
For Sal- by THOMAS & JOHN KFTLANB
AUg. ,®4
70,000 Pieces Nankeens,
Of the bejl quality and on reafenable terms,
F(<R SALE BY
Philip Nicklin 'Iff Co.
August 26. dtf
.— r
St. Croix SUGAR and MOLASSES. |
Landing from 011 board the schooner Little Tom, Capt.
Thomas Dennett, at wharf,
A choice parcel of St. Croix Sugar, <
* and a few hogsheads of Molasses.
For Sale by ,
Pragers and Co.
Av'uft 30 die ]
«. , 1
Fdr Sale,
A Three story BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut j
ftrcet, between Front and Second streets, i ll which
Mefirs. James Calbriith & Co. have for many yea rs < ant '
now do) carried on business.
Possession will be given i n one mont h, or sooner.
ror ijerms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or
hecTor calbraith.
~FOR sale;
WINE, London particular Madeira, 4 years eld, ,
in pipes and hogsheads
Claret, genuine old, in cases
Gin, in pipes, from Holland 1
Earthen Ware, in crates
Basket Salt, in hoglhcads
Shot, Nos. 6, 7, 1 and 9
Bar Lead, Red and wJiite dry lead
Steel, German and Russia, in barrels
Anchors, cables, junk, bunting, tarpolin canvas,
Tin plates—An invoice Stationary, by
THOMAS & JOHN KETLAND.
J»'y 29 ,
A Book-Keeper,
OR Clerk's place is wanted by a person properly quali
fied, and whose character will be found unexception
able. Apply to the Printer.
Aug. 11 tf
Wm. HOLDERNESSE,
No. 76 High Street j
HAS received, by tlie latest arrivals from Euro and
the Kaft Indies, a well ,fele<fled afi'ortment of Silk 1
Metcery, Linen Drapery and Haberdashery Goods ; which
he will fell, Wholesale Setai], tficLlsafreiLteraas ;
AMONGST WHICH ARE,
Some fine India muslins embroidered with gold and frtver '
Superfine Book, Jaconet, aad ditto (
Do do do do Handkerchiefs
Some extra black taffeties,lut«ftringsand colored Persians
Handkerchiefs
Long and (hort Nankeens
Englilh Mantuasof the sis ft quality
Damalk: table linen and napkins, very fine
Silk Hosiery, an elegant allprtnient
! and cotton do
Umbrellas—green silk, oil'd do. and do doth
French cambrics, very fine
Iriili Linenss do. &c. &c. June 14 §
A very valuable Merchant Mill,
A DISTILLERY and BREWERY, andfundry STONE
QUARRIES to -be let
I will rent my merchant Mill at the little Falls of Po
towmac, for any term not less than seven, nor more than
elcTen years, from the firft' day of September next. The
mili-houfe is 42 by 40 feet, three flories high, built with
stone, and has in it three pairs of French Burr Stonesi two
oVcr'lhot 18 water-wheels, and Evans's machinery
complete, with every other thing proper and necessary for
carrying on the business with difnatch, and at as little ex
pense as poffi'ok, all in good order—Frem the mill to my 1
landing on the Potomac river, (whs re craft, of any bur
then may deliver grain and take in flour) it is about 4c '
yards, and from thenc-- by water to George-Town and '
the City of Wafnington, about 3 miles, t and to Alexan- '
dria about nmiles. This situation, aided by a fuflicient 1
capital,' will command the produce of a very extensive '
back country, where large quantities'of whearand other '
grain is annually'made, the diAance to it being from 8 ■
to 10 miles leL than to any market town upun the navi- '
gation of the Potown ac. There are 011 the preruifes a '
large stone Coopers* Ih jp, a ftone'granary, and acommo- 1
dioui miller's house. At the landing aforefaid a bridge , i
is now building over the Potomac, which is in great for- j '
wardnels and probably will be finilhed the ensuing fail. I 1
There are also on the premises, a Brewery md DilUlle- j '
ry.' built with itone, in them are three stills, two coppers
or boilers, with every necessary article, all new, and in 1
good ordsr, and fufftcicntly large to carry on the Brew- '
ery and Diftillei y upon a very extenlive plan. This prop- '
erty I vl'ill rent for the fame term of years. *
Upon my lauds, achoining the premises, and along the '
banks of the river, where craft may lead with cafeand dif- 1
patch, is an immense quantity of building and fou'nda
tion-ftones. Four quarries are now Open, and ,as *liany 1 '
more may be opehed with ease : the stone taken from these 1
quarries is better, and has the preference ■at this market , !
II an/"ether stone brought to it. I will rent t,hefe-quarries i
separately or together as may bell suit.
On the top of the hill, and about 200 yards from the j
; mill, is a stone Dwelling-house, large enough for rhe ac- '
commodation of a family ; also, a kitchen, dairy, (moke- M
house, &c. and a garden, enc»ofed and ip cuttivancfa, the
foi of. whieh is equal in goodness to any in this Hate, i
will also rent this property.
Adjoining to the Brewery and Diftiilery is a Smith's
ill op, in which is a complste set of Blacksmith's tools,
which 1 will also tent, and if agrgeabie 1 will hire to the I
tenant two negro blacki'miths, onc.of them is a complete j
workman.
If I rent out the Hons quarries, 1 wiil fell three crafts,
which were built for the purpose of carrying ftnsJe : they
will altogether bring upwards of 90 perch. Immediate
pofCeilion will be given. For terms apply to thefiibicrtb
er in this town.
ThcMitl, Brewery and Diflillety. with their appurten
ances, will be deliver«d to the tenant or tenants 1:1 good
repair, and mull be so returned, at the df the
lsafe or ieafc9. x
THILIP RICHARD Fr.MDAI L.
"Alexi.etirij, —3} ■
Sa ! es of India Goods.
Cargo »f the (hip Gi nges, ca]3t. from Cai
cutta and Bengal,
coNsisriNO or
ALirg« generalalTortment of Bengal and Madra.'
CO i TON SILK GOODS.
AMfJBG WIJICK ARE % V #
A variety fine worked and plain
DoreaSj 'cfc. Also, »
A of Excellent 'Sugar j
Ii; boxesi and b^gs-—and 81-ACK PEPPER,
For Sale by
Willing's y Francis,
h No. ai Penn Street.
jUtic • §
TAKE NOTICE,
-"THAT application will be made for rfie renewal of
J- the follnwine certificates, iffuetTby Joseph Nonrfe.
• Rcgifter of the Treasury, in the nanie of Roger Gril
wold,, Esq. of Norwich, Conneil icut—
1 centifieate, fix per cent stock, No. 13,90';
—dated the 17thDecember,1795, bearing intcreft from
the firft day of January, 1791, for 1,597 65-100 doi
-1 ditto, thrc? per cent, domestic stock, No. i0,68>
—d ited December 16, 1795, bearing interest from the
firft day cf January, 1791, for 994 30-100 dolktrs.
1 ditto, deferred flock, No. 9,166 —dated the 17th
December, 179J, bearing interest from the firfl Janu
ary, 1801, for 798 83-100 dollars.
Said certificates are fuppofed-t9 have been loft or
ftoien in this citvTome time in December-or Janua:y
h W
JOSEPH THOMAS,
No. 59, Nor-J: Front-street.
Philadelphia, July »i, 1796. d6w.
. ~ DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice"ts hereby Given,
TH AT agreeably to an aft of Congress of the United
Staffs of America, pasTed at Philadelphia, the zßthr day
of May, 1 7g6 ; laying/duties on Carriages, for the 'convey
ance of persons, and repealing the former ads for that' pur
pose.—That there lhail be levied, «Jll,e6led and paid, upon
all carriage* for the conveyance of persons, which shall be
kept by or for anyperton, for .his cr bc'r own use, or to let
-out to hire, or for the conveying of passengers, the several du
ties and rates following, to wit.
For and upon every Coach, 15 dols.
« upon every Chariot, 12 dols.
upon every Post Chariot, 12 dols;
! ; upon every Pofi Chaise, 12 dols,.
upon every Phaeton, with or without top, gdols
upon every Coachee, 9 dols.
upon other Carriages- having panne 1 work above,
with blinds, glailes or curtains, 9 dols.
upon four wheel carriages, having frafned polls and
topi with steel springs, 6 dols. *
upon four whe?l top Carriages, with wooden or iron
springs or jacks, 3 dols.
upon curricles with tops, 3 dols.
upon cliaifes with tops, ,3 dols.
upon chairs with tops, 31 dols.
upon sulkies with tops, 3 dols.
upon other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carjiages, with steel or iron springs ;
I 3 dols.
c For and upon all other two wheel carnages, 2 dols.
upon every four wheel carriage, having framed ports
-»nd fopfc, an. Z.T wooden fpaxs, 2jiols.
The Collectors of the Kcvenue of the firft, survey of the
Diftrift-of Pennsylvania, will attend daily, day
of next, for the purpose of receiving the duties on
C linages, at No. 117, in Race or Salfafras street, in the City
of Philadelphia, at the house of Daniel S, Cliir, t r q in the
9 County of Montgomery ; and at the house of Abraham Du
bois,- Esq. in ijbe County of Bucks; of which all persons poi
feffed of such Carriages ai'e desired to take notiee.
Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign diftilled.fpiri
hjous liquors, that licences will be granted to them ; one li
ccnce for carrying on the business of retailing of Wines, in 2
iefs quantity, or in less quantities than 30 gallons—and one
licence for carrying on the business of retailing Spirituous li
qu-rs in less quantities than 20 gallons, at the fame time and
at the fame places, by the officers legally authorized to grant
Tuck licences.
E WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpe£tor of the Revenue: of the firft furvo-y
1 - of the dilhift of Pennsylvania.
n Office of Infpeftion,at >
c Philadelphia, 21ft July, 1796. {
I' Philadelphia, Weft-Cbetter, Strajburgh,
y Lancatier, Tork and Frederick-town
I STAGE S.
y r T"'HE proprieOrs of the above Stages, return their b.ft
JL thanks to their friends and the public in general, for
0 the encouragement received in this line of 'business, and beg
d lf ive to inform the public, that tl'iey are determined to run
_ their stages through from Philadelphia to Lancaster in
lt day, commencing on Tuesday, the 14th July instant,
e in the following manner,—viz, A Stage will set out on
, that da; at 4 o'clock in the morning, from the house of
;> George Weed, Market-street, Philadelphia, and run by
~ th Mv.iy-of W.eftcnafter and Strafo'urgh, arrive inLancaf
a ter the fame evening, on Friday, morning run to Wright's
ferry and exchange paffenjers with the York and
e : ick-town it age, return and arrive in Philadelphia on Sat
. | urday, and on Monday morning following, at 4 o'clock,
j said stage willfet out from the; faid'Gaorge Weed's, PJiila
.. ; lislphil, and arrive at I.ancafter the fartie evening, on
Tuesday morning at 4 o'clack will set out from the house
n of Mrs. Edwards, Lancaster, and arrive in Philadelphia
_ the fame evening, and will commence again' on Thursday
morning following, and continue every week—The price
tor each paffingtr from Philadelghii. to Lancaster is three
e dollars and a halT, to York, four dollars and three qHar
_ tei-s, to Frederick town eight dollars, the like funis for
150 weight baggage, with the Hl'ua! allowance of 14 lb.
y gratis to each passenger, and 5 pence » mile for all way
,• . paiitngers. 30—§4w
John Reijly,
, George Weed.
J ult Arrived,
. 'In the Snow Boston, jame .JCivkpatrick, master from Li
c \ verpool,
1 5000 Bnfliels jgALT ;
100 Craies QUEENS WARE ;■ and
s An AfTortment of SHII' CHANDLERY;
i, F O P. S A L E
c On board, at Pine-ftreei wharf.—l —Apply to
"James Campbell, or
■ - George Latimer.
y Apsis 10.-
® for sale,
A Complete Fort of Brevier,
T7Ntirely nev , and yet unopened. The weight of this
d X'.j lent is ahbuc 1 11 ib. 1., is from the Foundery of
e Wilfou f<Sop>,oh|jjoiw,and willbe I'oid r.t eoft & charges.
• Also for Sale, a pair of Super Royal Chafes.'
l'ntuure at the Otlke of the Gf.ieUe 0# the United
'!'■■■■ itj <i;.f • -'rset. Aug. 19 j-jw
1. ,
Prime St. Croix Sugjtr & R\r-i,
Lairing at Cliffords Wharf, 1 ' from on boaid the brig
'Pngtir, Ctyt. Thomas Wation —
And i ( or Sale by
Praters £5? ce*.
Rice,
. _ In tii.ro>-.
A few flip's of fourth proof L. a'tidy,
7 by g and 8 by 10 Window Guf,
Pot S.iie by
Gurnej & Smith.
Augaft 31. ■ d 6
New-»Englan\l RUM in KhJ.s.
COUNTRY GIN in barrels,
JUNIPER BERRIES in Calk#,
SPERMACETI, 1
COMMON WIIALE, and [- 01 L.
TANNERS )
SPERMACETI CANDLES,
Tallow. Ditto, Mould and Dipt
White SOAP, in Bc.ies
Best Boston BEEF, in barrels and half barrels
CODFISH, in hk;h,
Best Boston MACKREL, in barrels, and
A few choice fmoaked SALMON, For ' *'' '• 1 y
JOSEPH ANTHON Y & Co.
Also, a small invoice of well aflorted
INDIA GO 0..D S,
JUST ARRIVED.
Aug. a; §to
Dutch Goods,
Becchped L f the Penr'ylvania, Jroin /trhflcvclam.
GIN, in pipes
Morlaix f
Ticklaoburgs > In Bales
Ofnaburgs
German 7 c ..
Haeriem j St "P es ' ,n " fcS
Hollands "> DUCK,'in c-itto
Ravens j '•*
Bedticks, in ditto
Brfttaffries ) . t
Platillcs j ,Ddltto
For Sale by f.iQMAS ts 1 JOHN KETL/LND.
Aug. 29 5
FOR SALE,
COFFEE, in hhds. bbU. & bags
COTTON, or Deraerara, and drawback
SOAL-LEATHER \
Also,
BOSTON BEEF, and Moulc and Dipt CANDLES.
Apply to ISA .C HARVEY, Jtini
No. 5 fauth \ , iter-ftrcet.
8 mo. jo. saw
Juit Pabiii ici,
From tlie Press of MORE A U DE ST..MERY,
and to be jV'tf at the .principal Bookfdlers in town,
(price one quarter of a dollar) vV,
A PA MP HL E 7 EJSTJ TL E D
The Blue* Shop;
Or Jntpafjiiaf and Huniorouf Oiferv^iious
on the Life and Aaminturcs of
Peter Pokcupine.
With the real motives which gave rife to his abuse of
our diftingjiifhei} patriotic characters.
TOGETHER \VITH
A full and fair Review of his late
Scare-Crow.
£5" This production is in'erelling to alt parties.
August 30. atf
Great is Truth and mufi prevail.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And for sals at Nr 41 Chefnut-Jlre/rt iy % ORMROD,
An Apology for the Bible,
By R. JVatscn, d. d. f. r. s.
Btjhap of Landajf, "Sfc.
Being a complete refutation of Paine's
Age of Reason,
A>id the, only answer to the Second Part.
Avguit 33. dtf
Published by T. STEPHENS, A T o. 60, Siovth Second
freet. v
The Group ;
Or, An ELEGANT REPRESENTATION
ILL U ST R A 7 E D.
Embellilhed with a beautiful head of
S. MERGES, C. S.
THE publisher t'ninlis it a mark of refpeftj due to a
liberal and'enljghtened public, to inform them that
this is the Poem for the publishing of which he hat been
twice dragged from his house, and is now laboring under
a vexatious 'prosecution. He is conscious that the piece
contains nothing either criminal or offenfive, unl?fs ori
ginal wit v decorated in elegant language, be criminal or
dlfgufting to the prevalent tafie ; and, as he trusts that
neither of these is the cafe, he submits the work to the
public with a full affuraijcc of its meeting with a favora
ble reception.
He would beg his prosecutors to call to mind (if they
have ever read it) the following apologue to a w«ll known
romanre—" A young painter, indulging a vein of plea
lantry, iketched a kind of Conversation Piece, refpeiting a*
bear, fin owl, a monkey, and an ass; and to render it
inoVe striking, humourous, and moral, dillinguifhed eve
ry figure by some emblem of human life. Bruin was
exhibited in the garb and attitude of a'n old, toothless,.
drunken soldier; the owl perched upon the handle of a
coffee-pot, with fpedtacles 011 his nose, feelned to contem
plate i newspaper ; and tha ass ornamented with a huge
tye-wig (which, howeyer, could not conceal his long
ears) fat for his piiluTe to the mojikey, who appeared '
with the implements of painting. This wL'mJuaigroup
afforded some mirth, and met with general approb..tiqu,
until iome mil'chievous wag hinted the whole was a lam
poon upon an old officer, a physician, and a member of
Parliament; an insinuation which w:s no feontr circulat
ed, than these people began to be ajarmed, and even to
fancy themselves fignified by the several figures in the
piece. The rurious 'group fell npon who de
clared Ifcat he had no design to jjive offence, or tp cha
raderiz® B T'.icular perfom. They affirmed, tic rcfcmllance
was too patp:iblc to tc overlooked—afcd their clamottrs bcin'T
overheard by the public, the Captain was a bear, the
Dodtor ill al's, and the Senator an owl, to their dying
day." If a Cmilar late ihould attend.the persons who
will infill upon being the members of this group, iic
public will do the pub'iflisr the to renumber that
; t is ho fault of his.
AWguft d'.fCONTINUATION OF
Foreign Intelligence.
From London papers by the laic arrivals.
______ ' <tk
THE CONSPIRACY. %
O*OUET, RFTRESENTATIVE OF THE fEOPLE, TO
THE LEGISLATIVE BODY.
CITtTKNS, t'l
On the zi ft of FloreaV flioon^i
I was arretted in a house with five othiy .petfijWe,
who had niet by appointment to breakfTd. lam
ignorant of the motives which have induced the
Minister of the General Police to apprehend these
Citizens, whom I met for the sole purpose of con
futing on a letter which I had wiitten the evening
before, to the President of the Executive Directo
ry. The answer of this letter I had not then re
ceived, though I expc&ed it with impatience, that
• I might determine upon the coarse which I ought
. to pursue. My intention was toconfult these citi
zens on what was most conventent, to be done for
the public tranquillity, and at the fame time For vin
dicating the honour of the National Representati
on, which I considered to have been violated in my
person, on the 19th of this month, at 11 at night
Otfght I to make a formal denunciation to the
Legislative i Ic-rt a copy of my letter and
my complaints in the i ;iblic papers ? Such wad the
question I piopofed to fuhmi tn Citizens Laignelot
and Ricords, whom 1 bad formerly known, and
with whom I had lived in habits of friendfliip be
fore hiy captivity in Aulria. We had i\ot met
above a quarter of an hoiir, when I had scarcely
finifhed the reading of my letter, when an armed
force surrounded the house, and arrelted Citizens
Laignelot, Ricords, Dai'e, and two others, whose
names I do not remember, as well as the proprie
tor of the house, whose name, I believe, is Du
four. The commander of the aimed force invited
me to follow him to the house of the MiniJter of
the General Police, from whence i was condu&ed
to the house of the said Commander, and after*
wards to the prison of the Abbaye, in which I
.was'(hut up without knowing the caufe v of my ap
prehension, though those who conduced me there
said it was a measure of general fafety. If the
public tranquillity demands my imprisonment, J
am fatisfied ; and 1 love my country too much to
complain of that which may be ufeful to it. It
matters not tome how 1 serve it, whether in shed
ding my blood in its defence, or in languishing in
whether in the field of honor, or as now
in the abode of infamy, provided that my country
be free and happy—l am contented. I (hall not
make the air resound with the accents of indigna
tion, nor the complaints which 1 might form against
the legality of my arrest, — the good and the evil
of this affair are too indifferent in my eyes to give
me either joy or sorrow. But bsfore I know the
eaufe of my imprisonment—at tfie moment when
the public opinion is suspended Over me, I will ex
plain franklv rhe sentiments which have animated
me in all the events, i■» which I have a£t«d a part.
Because no confiderat ion, nopoiveron earth is ca
pable of deterring me from openly declaring my
sentiments ; and bejeaufe the portion of the people
who named me for their R. prefestative, and who
probably know me well, have not said, 'hat under
these circumftamts I (houid ever diminiflq or aug
ment the enthusiasm for public liberty which they
seen me always earnedly profefs. This was
the reason of their choice, and foi which they ho
nored me with their confidence in 1791, 1792, and
again on the last renewal of the Legislative Body.
I hope that when my correfpondeiice, my papers,
my Speeches and my actions (hall be examined with "
attention and impartiality, the Legislative B"dy
will be convinced, that my whole life has been but
one continued pursuit of the mod pure philosophy,
and the mod ardent patriotism.—But these words
do not fufficieatly idea—for there.are
also a philosophy and patriitifm peculiar to Lon
• don, Vienna, Peterfburgh and Condantinople. The
difference anfes from the manner of Viewing things.
I (hall explain myfelf more clearly. From the age
of sixteen, the epoch at wlviqh i believe I began
to think, I have oiffeffed a heart inHamed with the
most sublime enthusiasm for the political liberty and n
equality of the body jocial. 1 had my mind stored a
with the principles of Rousseau, and Ray- c
nal. 1 learned to signalize my zeal, for which I t
wantfcd but an opportunity—lt may be seen if f
ever 1 have omitted any one. v
I (hall not attempt to retrace all the aflions 1 f
have performed in the (hort space of my political v
career, led I (hould seem desirous of calling to my (1
aid the gratitude of Republicans. Far from me f;
be such an idea ! If I have done fqme good, it has n
contributed to my own fatisfaftion and pleasure, b
and I require no thanks from any one. If, acci- t
dentally, I have commitied*fome evil, it has been n
always by ignorance and without design ; for, nei- o
ther vice nor ambition have innabited my heart, t
Far from me also be every ultra and intra revolu- fl
tionary idea ! I underdand nothing of those fludlu- n
ations. 1 know only the Republican principles, I
which guarantee to the people their rights and so- w
vereignty. This is what my condiments willed in 0
1792, and it is this which I have always willed, I
"because 1 have not had the insolence of fubdituting n
my will for theits. At the moment when I was b
made a prisoner of war, I had the happiaefs of n
feeing realized in my country those ideas which c
almod every author had treated as chimerical. I o
saw, at length, in a corner of the earth, an im- a
menfe, free, and fovercin people, giving tothemfelves
the i»ws which they believed necessary for their ti
fafcty. I saw them also in the midst of this revo- r;
iutionary crisis, rending all tire efforts of their am- ri
bilious neighbours ; und (haking off, in despite of ci
their impotent rage, ali the prejudices ofprideanoi tl
fuperdition. This idea co.ifoled me jn my capti- (1
vity, I congratula cj myfelf on having contributed R
fometWwg towards tfee regeneration of my cotlntry ; I
Bnd 1 felt myfelf honoured in belonging to a.peo- j ol
pie whom I regarded as the molt energetic of the j A
universe. j pi
f , .
S. After this dev<jf>pemrnt of my .principles, it is
easy to imagine what mud have been my aftomin
ment when arriving on the fror.iifts of France, I
beheld the new order that was edablilhed in France.
'« Ah }" exclaimed L in the prefcnce of my col
leagues Qninette, Lamarc, and General Bournon
villt, " was it worth wlfilc to mike so tr any fa?ri
fices, and pour forth so much Wood for obtaining a
fydem wl>ich appears to me a Itriking resemblance
of the Government of the mod cruel and inverate
ro of our enemies. They have got an Upper Honle
and a Lower House, and they want only a Ring 10
render the likeness complete ! It is.to be Hoped that
, Eiurlaiid will soon have the.goodness to give us one
bfner own fort ; for at the period when I left
jj* France, the Royalilts and the intriguers had pro
-n posed to call the Duke of York to the overthrown
ie throne of the Bourbons."
fe Su h - were my sentiments on reading the present
j. Conditution for the firlt time at Fribourg. I be
g lieved my remaiks the more just, as I found that
). the Audrians praised this Conditution, and I have
> never been able to support the idea of finding my
it felf in unison with the enemies of my country.
it On arriving in France, however, I altered iu
i- some degree my language, because I found that
r the patriots had been the fird to accept this Con
-- ftitution, and that the Government appeared to use
i- every means to raise them from the (late of degra
y dation into which they had fallen after the 9th
t Thermidor. I arrived at Paris full of confidente
e in the good intentions of the Government. 1 pre 1
d fervejd for a long time this good opinion of the i)i
---e rectory, as may be seen by several letters 1 have <
t written too.ie of its members, in which I did my
i felf a real pleafute in pointing out to him those 1
• things that appeared inimical to the public good,
t and for which I at different times received his j
f thinks. It grieves the friends of (heir country ;
I that the proceedings of the greater part of the a- -
s gents of the government do not accord with the <
; odenfible obje&s of the Diie£}ory. In mod of '
■ the offices of administration then? are to be seen 1
- only pert coxcombs, who, when addressed, tum j
1 about on their heel, or (hrug ( up their (houlders, ,
f and never pronounce the honorable word Citizen j
1 but with a sneer. They behave in the most re- i
. pulfive manner to thofe,who bear »o other title than I
I their civic virtues or their glorious wounds.— '
- Throughout the whole extent of the Republic the j
; most energetic Republicans are never mentioned
: without some odioits Qualifications: if a man of 1
I the most pure intentions declares himfclf boldly in 1
j favor of liberty, he is immediately ranked in the 1
t class of monlters—and, by a revolting contrad, '
- while the apodles of the revolution are persecuted, 1
i those who have always been distinguished as itsene- 1
1 r mies, ,tbe Egotijls, the Aeitators, the Prieds, and ■
f even the Emigrants, enjoy a (hameful predileflion. ;
t Indeed, such observations as I had been led to make 1
- in various departments, were not calculated to left
I fen the anguish I felt in feeing the pronenefnof the 1
1 Government towardsJvoyalty, or, at least, to A- 1
: riftocracy. My heart was at the fame time pene- j
■ trated by sorrow and by Republican zeal; and, j
1 unable to oppose fuffirient efforts to tlie retrogade ,
■ motion of the revolution, I became desirous of giv- j
I ing in my refigation, and returning to the obfeurity 1
, from which. J wae drawn 1" iJCji , that 'I might '
- not remain an ina&ive fpeftator of the downfall of '
r public liberty. I (hould long ere now haVc er.e- v
■ cuted this design, not my health obliged me
> to drink the mineral waters. My fortune, ruined by %
- my captivity, did not permit me to. undertake a c
journey for this purpose at my own expence, and 1
until it (hould be completed I deferred my refigna c
1 tion. Let-my friends be interrogated— let th? let- c
ters which I have written to my wife, to different 1
I citizens, to the Minider of Finance, and to the
Executive Directorybe read ; they will prove, ,
, that 1 only delayed my departure until I received g
, "what was due to me by the government, and that 1
I should have been on my way more than eight r
days ago, inllead of being as now in prison. Not- '
withflanding, though I cannot judge bu. by ap
i pearances, lam accused of conspiracy.—1 a con- £
fpirator !—Yes! Doubtlefi, I have sometimes con- 1,
fpircd, but it was againd the enemies of tlv Re- t
public; and it was openly with my sword in my 11
hand. 1 did not conceal myfelf at Varennes, at 0
Biefme, nor at Maubeuge. I have also conspired 0
secretly in favor of my health and my repose, which
1 was desirous of seeking in the bosom of my f«-
mily ! Let all those who have seen or heard me, u
all who have read my letters, come forward to ac- '
cufe me, if Ido not declare the truth. I expedl 1
them witb all the tranquillity of an upright con- I
science. It cannot be believed, however, ?f;er I]
what 1 have fajd, that I pretend never to have p
spoken against the government. On the comrafy, v,
whenever 1 thought its operatiofttf were in any q
shape inimical to public 'happiness, I ,have never o
failed to censure them. I was not fatl?fied with ft
merely speaking, I have written also. There may tl
be seen among my manuscripts mar.y papers to at- el
ted the truth of what I fay ; and I feel myfelf ho- t!
nored by it, because I think that a representative n
of the people should be ever forvrard in defending o
the intereds, the glory and the liberty of his con- tl
ftituenti. I have announced that I (hall declare d
my sentiments. I mud fulfil my engagement, (ince H
m y' e lf exposed to the review of the- public tl
which is ever impatient to deteimineon the conduct p
of a citizen who occupies a confpictious fmiation. b
I have formed also some plans which probably will 1
not please all the wmld, and which will doubtless
be Wed by the greater nart of mankind as chi- fe
meric4l and absurd. It ,'iatters not, since 1 have T
conceived them, (ince 1 have fp,.ken of them, not in
only to my int.mate friends, but eves publish I m
am bound to letrace them here.
Weary of hearing the complaiotgof opp,e(Ted pa. T
tnoti, grieved to fee them reviled, reduced to mife- li.
ry, and despised by those who are gorged with the la
riches ot the Republic, I have endeavoured "to dif- m
cover the cavife of this change ; and what might be m
•ie iefl meansithat could be conveniently employed ie
fttould the evil arrive at this height, and leave to ol
Kepubhcan zeal no other resource than despair tr
! r \ Us crt q u '«, M«at is the cause of the decay Ir
los thei nAace of patriot, on the public opinion? di
political as well as physical bodies are liable to pi
| periodical revolutions, which «> 0 human forcfight at
can prevent, These evolutions tend to excite a
ih- fermentation in the body, wb.ch serves to fepara e,
I by a fort of fetictWH ail the hetetogenous or fu
-e pe,abundant parts. The machine then relume.«,.
ji- equilibrium, i-nd that which gave it tne impulse,
becoming no longer necessary, remains >n a state of
,j- inaAiun, and finks into oblivion, the approach
$ of a revolutionary enfis, ail the felhfli, who,think
ice onlv of their enjoyments, all the whose on! y
He obietS it to take care of their wealth, and the timid
,fe who are (olely occupied about the prefcrvation of
to their existence —Such men, I fay, who form always
iat the majority of th? enlightened part of every na
i,e tion, when the moment ot revolution arrives, (hun
sft the temped, retit-e towards the centre, and lay
* 0 . fjives down, to wait quietly until it "be appealed,
v i On the contrary, men of impetuous fpints, of strong
minds, of tranfcende.it genius, boldly meet the florm
nt prelide ovei its movements, and guide the helm or
, f . affairs. These men ftruggliug always in the midst
at of danger, soon find their ftrcngtb exhaulkd, and
vc numbers fall during the conflict. But before they
v- have finished their work,-the multitude of moderate
men, who concealed themselves at the height of
ju thccrifis, so soon as they judge the veffe! is ready
at to gain th* port, flock in crouds from the nothing*
i). nafs to which they were condemned ; :ind, like i
fe hungry drones, throw thcrnfelvp on the hive, to J
a- drive away the bee?, an 2 fh*fe its spoils Such is I
|) the cause of the of'illations and it'adfions << icri f
'e have taken place for almost two years. 1 lie moil *
e energetic Republicans have exhaoHed the gresteft <
part of their moral and physical powers, during the a
re comfe of the revolution. t
f . The men who have always, at a difhnce, regarded"
them with ]eal«ufy, and have vowed to them impla
, £ahlc hatred, prepai e now to diipute the pi'-ze, and
would poflefs themselves of it exciulively. These hold
15 -in their hands tha means of" success—riches, leifuie,
y ambition; and above ail, thic flexibility of,'chaia&er
i- which is ib convenient to those who wiflj to Tupplant
ie others. The patriots, to re(ift these last attempts, can
,f only oppose the antiquated reputation of fonre virtues
now deluifed. There-r.etd th nbe uofarther ajlysifb*
' ment at the decline of the patriotic erithufialm which ].
r ' latelv elevated the' French people above all the natiotts ,
s > of Euiope. Still, however, the patriots exiit in great ,
n numbers. The remembrance < f their past glory, the (
e- (hame of being eclipsed by those who concealed them- *-
in selves during the revolution, the l know ledge bf the
_ evils which they have experienced, and the misery f
which has opprefled them, excite in thejr fouls the most f;
, lively indignation, and a itrfing desire of vengeance. L .
All the violent meafures,That the government may
" take, can serve only to retard for a time the bunt of
n confined paflions. In vaia does it prevent Ute afTem- 1
te blingof citizens. In vain does it hire the most cele
1, bratrd journalitls. It w ill not succeed in breaking e
] that band of Sentiment which unites all patriots from f
one end of the Republic to the other. The patriots
\ will meditate all their liverthe means of resuming the
influence which they have loft, and thousands will
'• arise to avenge every zealous viflim who shall perish
:c in the ente: prise. I have long since made this caleula
-- tion, and have forefeen that torrents of blood were
lc again about to flow for thirty or forty years, that is
to fay, until the revolutionary generation fliould be '
extinct. This idea struck me with horror! and I con- .
J fidered if there were not some means of averting the 11
'» scourge from my country. I saw only two, one of
e which appeared to me impradtirable, viz. that the 0
r. government fn.iuld rally around it ail the patriots, and
y ltave the aristocrats and royalists to complain at their
t lcifure. Thefi- kind of men, who are neither nurae
,f energetic, are always ready to submit, though 1
with murmuring, Jo the laws that are accepted by the
majority wbenwhey find them rigidly enforced. The
e .#> ond mean will prpbably appear chimerical to all the
y world I corifider it, however, as the on:y one that
a can save the patriots from the humiliation of bending
d their heads under the yoke of their'enemies; or else 15
, the cruel neceflity of dipping their hands in the hlood
_ of their fellow-citizens, to avoid a tyrannical domir.a- ri
t tion. For it ought always to be remembeeed that, f<
though citizens may not alw ays be of one opinion, they -
e are still not the less brothers, the children of onecpm'-
, mon mother. Upon the recollediion of this title, ail
J good citizens will revolt at fhedduig the blood of
t Frenchmen. Such was the sentiment which animated ll
t me, when I formed in my mind the following plan
i When Ariflocracy shall have completely etfabliihrd
, l' er proud dominion, when there Aall remain no prof- Q
of fatisfaciion or happiness in France for those de
clared patuots who have accorapliihed the revolution,
• let them rase as one man. They rnuft take with them
- tneir moveable pr.perty, their provisions, their inftru
r ®', nts °* husbandry, and their arms, their wives and
t r U r e ?,' T hey ' nuA l ,roceed Awards the frontiers
, ot the Repubiic, and abandoning a country that de- A
tel.s them, burst as a d'efplaiing torrent on the fertile
regions occupied by the enefties of the mother coun
try. It is there they must eftablifo themselves as con
, querors «.d legiflaturs.
" tll . e ' c ' ,o " c that they can Itiily found the ,
t 1 nnity of Dertjpcraey— Equality, Liberty, and
- Fraternity. They mull bear before them the ho
r ly palladium of the Sovereignty of the People, and, r
; presenting witj, one hand the sacred code of reefon, L
, with the other a terrific fcymetar, force the van
quiflied to bow down before the divinity of the J"
r rr?' 3 ; » In r r ttin e their counti\-, let them m
i hake the dust of the foil from thejr feet, to shew
' that they will never re-enter it again. Let them
■ etlace every trace of the fetters which' enchained '
■ them in Trance, so that the name of Frenchmen
' m f 3 ? om that morn ent he etazed from the column
; ot Liberty, and the emigrants resume the name of
• their most early anccftors. It is thus I wifii the r ,
• defcendank ,of tliofe brave Gauls who (hook the to
! Koman Republic to its center, to hallen to avenee K
, the rights of a Sovereign people, violated in the £*
; person of an assassinated ambassador ; and to re-eft a
. bhfh the worfm'p of Liberty on the ruins of the th
I 1 lirune ot lupcrftition. ry
1 liis-'projedt however Chimerical it may appear
■ leems to me likely to conciliate the interells of all! lc
i he 1 atriOta'iyiU have <m opportunity of withdraw
lng themselves from the domination of their crc- —
mics, and they will find i„ their vast Tiumbers a fuf
ficient pledge for their fafety in a foieign country.
1 he remaining part of the nation will had iifdf re'
heyed from the fuperabtindance of a turbulent p'opu i,,i
ation, which will otherwise continue long to tor
ment it, and which would always be an impedi- so
ment to thcoehgns of the aristocrats. The Sove
teign people will wivhout any trouble be avenged 10
°rViilUt tr nt C I- 1 r d 31 Kome 5 and lils co " r! -
,vt 1 r i Vlth her children de- ~
I"'g her from those torrents of tears which their
dissension, have occ*f 10E ed her to shed. These R e -
P r f arc the proj -as I ' have formed ,
nt. on which i have often cor,~r. d , vkh o! „ lurp jha
ea among my frjendn. If I speak not-Vthe trr.-Ji,
te, tHem come forward and accuse me of '
fu- (hall expe&them 'o do so. Thus I have Hated t!; J
its object of irv conlpiracy, and 1 may lay with en:,;;
Ife, denco, that lam the only conspirator. This
of jest, however, is not new. It cxilis in them..,,
ich of all the opprefTed patriots that I hav- fee si i
Ink fcrens departme2ts, who expect to fee the arri.
nJy that fatal moment, when finding no longer ai.
nid curity for their fa'ety in the ?o«ntrjf, they wilt ;, c
of obliged to form what they call a Republican V .
sys dee. I should have wilhed to have been abL ,
ia- render this design ufeful, whieh seemed to nt c f,
,un well calculated to diredt again the irnpetuolitv { ,f
m . Republican zeal against the enemies of the e. ,i»
ed. try. , This idea appeared to me fuhlimcy m.d I
ng have cherished it in my imagination with a (mi ,j
rm extacy. If it is a crime, Legislator's, punilh nse,
of for I acknowledge myfelf guilty of it.— Rat if any
dft one accuse me of having wished to embrue a patriot
nd dal asm in the blood of my Fellow-ciu'zens; I m*i,.
ey tain that he lies. Let the calumniator present ! 'n
ite felf before'me, 1 (hall drip him of the maiks of
of perfidy with which he would cover hitnfelf. i
dy conclude with praying you to read my letter in the
,g- Council. If the Legiilative Body grani my
kt mand, 1 (hall believe it is diipofed to judge me in
to partially. If lam to experience a refuial, I ihail
is have the melancholy fatisfa£tion of feeing tti.it i
ch have not been deceived in my opinion, and that
,i( Ariltocracy triumph* in France. Then I (hall ex
?[t claim nunc dimittis, because I have lived long eno igr,
tie and for tne nothing more to regret' ca i
the earth.
sd* (Signed)
a- Drouet, Rrprefentative ofthe People.
From the Prison of the ci-devant Abbaye
Germain, 15 Floreal (14th 4th
' "year of tils French Republic.
c r.
— - .1 •
ts F/.YETTEVILLE, (N.C.) Aug. 20.
3- .in L '.'•Uj Cx'of-'tht
head men ofthe Catawba nation of Indians, viz.-—
lS Major George White—Cfjfohiin John DAo—('.apt,
Billy 'Redhead—Serjeant Billy Mtrr'fon —'J.dmet
1 Scott—and Patrick Brawn : after remaining two
le days at the Wigwam of Sage (brother] Cochran,
•y fmoaking the pipe of peacf and friendfhip, and per
ft forming a number of feats ofarche -y and war dan
c - ces, they fe: out on their way to Wilmington, on
•_ a visit to hi? excellency the 'Governor, their bro»
' ther, and head meii of the State os-North •Carolina'. i
c_ We hearthat the hon. James Gillefpip is rc-eledl
,g ed representative for congress, and Richenj Sfan
ai ford,efq. in the room "J Abfnlom Tatom/cfij.
t$
ie
j}J SENTIMENTAL PERFUME nr.
_ e A sentimental perfumer recommends if to the fine
; 8 Jadics, to furnifh.their toilets with the fullpwia'g ar
,e tides •
Self Knowledge :—A mirror, Ihewing the full fhipe
, e ip the truest light. -
j* Innocence: —'A white paint, which will Can 1 for a
considerable.time, if not ahufed.
1( j ModejlyVery belt rouge, giving, a becoming
j r blocm to the chtefc.
e _ Contentment :—An infallible fwotlicr of wrinkles in
the face. '
lc Truth :—A salve, rendering the lips foft and pecu
liariy graceful
ie Good Humour An unwerfal Lcautifisr.'
Jt Mildness :—Giving 2 tihflnre to the voice.
Tears of Pity A water, (Ha; gives lustre ind bright
pefi to the eye.
1( j N. B. The cor.ftant uft of these articles c..iinot fail
j. rendering them quite agreeable to the sensible and dc
t serving part ejf mankind.
y - ' —. |
1] Tts Impostor Detected.
1
j In Bradford's free and independent Political Pref., and
ON MONDAY WILL LE PUBLISHED,
d The Impostor Deteded,
f- Or a REVIEW of feme of the I'/RITINCS of
u Peter Porcupine
By TIMOTHY TICKLETOBY,
n " Ke is a inciter of such horrid .mien,
1- "Asto be hated, needs but to be seen* * ;
[ Pope."\
S TO WHICH IS ANNEXED,
- A Refreshment for the Memory of
® William Cobbett:
By SAMUEL F. BRADFORD. _
Sept. I. dj . . "
5 A Valuable PAPER-MILL,
FOR SALE.
> O ITU ATE in Lower Merion Towh/hip,
, County, between ten and el j veil miles bom the. C^ty
. of Philadelphia ; wpin fix.ty acres ef Land. The Mill u
in good order, and on a never failing l\rcam of water. For
c further particulars ; enquire of the Subfciiber on the pre
tl mifes.
v GEORGE ifELMBOLD.
j September 1 ft, 1796. *to 3
Commonwealth of Pennfylvani'a,
„ Versus NED CATOM, a NEGRO MAN.
j- X THO was comu.itied tothe jail of dauphin county,on
VV his confeflion of having the w. of a
c certain ]ohn Grace, Copperfmiih an<} Tinman, belonging
t* to Philadelphia, of Tin, Copper and Pewter ware, Spoons,
e Knives and Forks, fomc of which was found on the said
Negro ; alf , was found on him, a Morocco Leather Pocket
Book, in which is wrote the name WILLIAM WESTON ;
it contains sundry papes, which corroboi a e'the fufpicipn of , j
c the book having been stolen ; amongil which arc $jjc Lotte-
ry 1 ickeis, one in the Canal Lottery irfCharletton, one in
Harvard.College, one in the Federal City, two in the Perm
' ftlvama Canal, and one in Lottery, Ncw-
Jersey, all in the poffefiion of _ i
ALEX. BIKRYHILL.
27th, 1 yq6«
TAKE NOTICE.
rHE fubferiber intends to make application for a rs.
newa. of the following certificate, supposed to bt fr;,
loft on the paflage to F.ngland in April 17y4 :
Certificate No 103-35, dated 15th. November, 1793,
. for 2830 dollars and 91 cents—Six per cent. clomcUic m
_ debt, on the books of the 'i'reafury of the United States ,
, in the name of the Hon John Trevor.
F ROBERT BIRD; at John Warder's.
■ Philadelphia, August 30th, 1796. 6v'
A Habdfome, well-broke
; SADDLE HORSE,
For Sale enquire at th& Coneftog® Stsble's, the o-rr.
' having no use for hiss.PARIS, July 5, ,
i CO'IVCIL OF FIVS HUNDRED, July J.
The secret committee, formed yesterday by the
| Council of Five Hundred, has not yet foimed any
result. It was resumed and continued to day. A
J message from the Directory was read, declaring,
that the anarchists agitate Paris anew ; that they
had resumed their criminal hopes, that a part of
the conspiracy of Babceuf had already been exe
cuted in the morning; that women, or men dif- :
gulfed as women, had rushed inio the markets, had I
there rated merchandizes at their pleasure, and had
carried them away, pillaging, or, at least, paying <
with mandats, to which'tbey gave what value they i
pleased ; that these disorders were the more alarm- <
ing, in that the seditious cloaked themselves with I
L the pretext of certain laws too imprudently adopt
ed, that it time to take efficacious measures 1
and to fybmit to a frefh examination certain tinan- e
cial laws which opinion reje&ed, and the execution 1
| of which, terrors the ereflion of fcr-ffoMs, and the 1
adoption of all the revolutionary measures could ]
i nut produce. t
The discussion was began less upon the disorders a
which had taken place in Paris, than upon that t
■=*' which was the true cause, that is to fay, the law
which ajfimilcitcs the mandat with money.
Cambaceres spoke with much force and talent,
upon the necessity of at lait abandoning systems, a
the iniqiiity of which was acknowledged ; which t
ruined individuals, under pretence of enriching the n
State; and which, in fa<ft, only enriched some d
• luiavirs. He reminded them, that eonfidence could c
not be commanded ; that it was to be obtained only n
by a series of raeafurjs well concerted, and by a si
conduift and plan* proper to re-assure men of pro
' perty, too long facrificed to the eneiries of all or
der and prosperity ; that it was the business of go
vernment to remove all fufpirions, to merit the fuf.
1 frages of the good, and to {hew a loyalty which n
should serve as an example to all citizens. He de- v
clared it as his opinion, that the surest means to i!
Produce a better nfTSTo carry on 1,
a severe economy into all parts of the admish.tra- ti
tion ; to accelerate pease by an union of vigour C
& moderation ;to place know!edge'& probity in the e i
room of ignorance and plunder ; to give entire li- a ,
berty to private bargains and to commerce ; and tl
to put the receipts and expenditures upon a footing
the least fubjefl to the abuses and caprices of (lock- et
jobbers. J(
Cambaceres enlarged upon these ideas in a man. a l
ner which made a ftror.g iir f effiao upon the Coun- £
cil, and added'to the idea which had been longen
' tertained of his excelleet disposition and kis know
ledre. He was followed in the tribune by several tr
othe* orators, who spoke to the fame effed, and w
infilled on" the necessity cf replying those laws ra
which good men cpuld not approve, and which only
favored knaves, by enabling them to psy large
debts with little money, and to turn the national
fortune to their own profit. ce
All teemed to be fatisfied of the utility of a a'r
courfeof exchange for the Mandats, without, how ed
cvei, entirely repealing the law of the 28th Ven- ed
tofe upon the sale of national pofTrffions. Camus H
was almost the only one who seemed to think, that ar
if itu iirniSirn .f' «ku--obliged' to make .its pay
ments in course, the Mandat would be Sill more
discredited by the large emissions, and that the pub-, pr
lie treasury would not be able to anfwerall the ex- to
pence*. The discussion was to continue next day,
and llill in Jecret committee. nr
The alarms expressed yeftersay by the Dire&o- m;
ry naefiage upon the state of Paris, were but D
too well founded". A general pillage had been or
ganized by the Teirorifts, who hoped that the in
digent would fuffer themselves to be reduced by this
lure. The feimentation was great; the groups L
were heated- by Jacobin blood hounds and revolu- err
tionary figures.—They were every where in the th
fields, runuing through the streets, seeking to bring R
over the military to them, by exaggerating their ar
hardships ; attiibuting the discredit of the man. ne;
dais to the : afluring the people that if thi
; Baboeuf and Drouet had triumphed, they would fit
Tiav<f* been on ti par with money, boasting of the an
reign of Robcfpierre, and declaring that they would mi
not he happy till there were neither rich men nor he;
i mer chants, nor Directory, and the patriots (a la I am
i Babauf) fhauld rule every where. In the evening en
I they were obliged to confine themselves to conver- enl
iaiiun ?.:id unavailing provocations, because mea
ires had been taken. But, in the morning they
f had nearly pillaged the markets, and thus exposed
Paris to/want fc frighteniug and robbing the country
people who were bringing in provisions. cej
I To-day, thanks to the police, calm is reestablish- of
ed ; and the Jacobins have not hid the fame, fuc- me
eefs as ytffterday, although they have endeavoured tw
•to renew the corwnotions. Some of the insurgent s ( | ti
have been arretted, and there have been found a
mong them fomeoftheald valets *>f the fa&ion of co]
Organs, and of the committees of Robespierre. cfi
These movements ought to prove to the direflory m ,
how perfidious or {hort- sighted are those who seek w j
to lull them asleep again, to prevent their feein'g
the plots which the anarchilts are constantly re
ntwir.g. It is now proved to them, that there is
fno fafrty in Paris, either for them or for men of w
property, until the National guard (hall be re-crea- —
;\ted, and put upon a relpeftable footing. o[]
s —— " tb:
Frbti Hamburgh trunfiuttdfor, the Aurora, po
FRANCKFORT, June 21. j-C
> FieliFMarfhal Wuruifer has already set off for trc
*ItaVf. ~ labia passage -.hrougb CatlsiouTie he dined
v u>ith his highness the Margrave of-Badeir co!
I remarkable that at Weilbuigh, where Cu mi
committed such devattations, the French have ti<
time done almolt no damage, and they have of
not touched the effccls in the Palace, end the ou
in the cellars of the Prince of Naflau Weil- tat
b. • •
fie Frenrh column which fell back towards
HHed encamped not far from the Red Cotk, ne
oyird all lire railed durip.g the wl
«r by the again, and had ry,
dygainrtf fonti over the Imperial- thi
but thef? being, reinforced by the troops of ge.
3'- hilaiit and the rmijjcantsj fsctcedeij in diflod- JFr
| The Arc :-D;ike Charles, who advanced beyond
the Laun with (he corps d'aimee, has left, fojne bt>
the dies of troops between the Lahn and Mein to prv
"a tT i aUTdan from croß;n g t'le Rhine in his rear.
The French however are very numerous opposite
ng, Neuwied, at the mouth of tllo Lahn and her ween ;
icy Rmefels and Maytnce, and the troops that had 1
of crofTed the Rhine withjourdan file up the river
ice- towards Mayence, instead of hastening towards Dnf- 1
lit- f-'ldorfagainft which the atttack oflhe Arch-Duke (
lad seems direded.
ad Tke French patroles advanced within cannon fli.t t
ng of Mayence, but they have r.ot yet cftablifhed a per 1
ey manent camp in its vicinity ; the nearest corps oc ■ J
m- cupies a position on the small river Seize, about two J
th leagues from the fortrefs.
Tliere are no longer any. Aulinah'troops on the 1
■es lert bank of the Rhine -except on the glacis of May- -1
in- ence, and in thfe old redoubt of the Rhine near Man- a
on heim. Frankenthal, Oggerfheim, 0-penhei:n, and f
he Bingen are occupied.by Jutirdan's army. The I
ild French levy heavy contributions in the countries a- 1
bandoned by the Auilrians. At Worms they ex- 1,
?rs acted a contribution of 1 25,00011'vrcs, and it is said
at they have plundered of Biugen. \
w
NEUWIED, June 20. a
it, We have come off very Well; General Oliver, c
is, a "worthy character, who commanded the French d
-h troops here, maintained a severe discipline, so that
le not the least exeefs was comriiitted. On the fud
le • den approach of the lmpeiinliils, the town was eva- t
Id cuateJ by the French. Several houses were da- 0
ly maged by the cannonade of tire Auftriaiij, who firft b
a fuppofid the French (till «t Neuwied.
r- BATTLE o/KIUPEN. 6
3 " BONN, June 20. v
A bioody aflion was again fought yesterday bet- o
ween Ukeroth'and Altenkirchen. The - details gi- jt
even vary in some particulars; but. they all agree, '
° t hat the French grenadiers fouglu like
n I'Oiis, and that every inch of ground the A'uf- si
triansgained was covsred with their own blood.— F
if General Kleber advanced during the day upon the o
e enemy and continued his retreat undiftuibtd tow- a
1- aids night. About 300 wounded were sent here,
d ths fame day by GeneraiJCleber. '■
S The corps of Kleber falls again back to it's form
- er position pn the Wupper, whilst the divisions of
Jourdan's army that had crofTed the Rhine, occupy
'• already their former positions between Mayence aud
- Coblentz.
The Fiench attribute the cheek they /uffeied E
■ near Wetzlaer t» the great luperioruy of the Auf
il trians who amounted to ftomis t0 20,000 men, w
whilst the diviiion of Le Fevre waa not half 10 nu- 01
3 mei6us. p<
COLOCNE, June io.
I General Le Fevre, whom flying reports an noun
ced to be mortally wounded, made prifotier, killed,
} arrived hereon the 18th inft. He is indeed wound- L
ed, but his wound cannot be dangerous, for he walk- f c
- ed about the town, the fame evening he arrived.— uj
; He fiae already set off for DuffeldorfF, his diviiion
t ai d a quantity of baggage-aiid artillery follow him.
juireji.
: The Auftiians arrived l:ii ! . evening at Deutz op
posite this city. It is said they intend in earnest
- to attack Duffeldorf.
, We hear this moment that 8000 men of the ar- at
my of the north and several battalions of Batavians ru
- marcheid from Holland to reinforce the French at
Duffeldorf. ar
w
MANHEiM, June zs. a "
i Whilst the French have fallen hack from the
i Lahn, they drain every nerve tp force the Imperial v -ii
entrenchments before this fortrefs, and to' expulfe «
: the Auttrigns-entirely f'f>m the left bank of the
[ Rhine. Thismorning at j o'clock they began with ; 0!
■ a BKjft incredible fuiy to itorm the entrenchments ln:
• near Mundenheim j at 9 o'clock they dire&cd
f their chief attack againll Maudaeh and advanced
I from thence with equal vigour against Milndenheim ha
■ and Rheingenheim. The fire of the artillery and a s
I mufquctry was terrible. All the windows of Mart- ivi
heim trembled. The French rushed on over killed
r arid wou,nded and attacked at the poi-it of the bay- a S
cnet. They loft many men, bnt they carried the
entrenchraents of Rheingenheim.
Defeat of Lfffske near tVetxlacr.
WETZLiER, June 16.
The whole army of the Arch-Duke having suc
cessively evacuated all their polls on the left bank !
of the Rhine, and received conftderable reinforce- I a
! meats from Wurmfer's aimy, took a position be- ; ct ,' t
twet,n the Lahn and Mein The whole force of
the Auftrians polled from the Rhine to Friedbeig, i 110
1 amounting to 80,000 men. Jourdan had also a ""
considerable force beyemd the Lahn, and as he re
ccived daijy reinforcements, it was determined to'[ ls
make this day the 16th, a geneial attack upon his ; pai
whole line. I V HI
But the French gen. Lefebre, who was proba
bly informed of this plan, attempted t6 fiullrate it
1 by attacking the corps of Genetal Werneck near ti^e
Wetzlaer, on the 15th, before several corps of Auf- b
reached their refpeftive positions
on the rSin. Altho' thc Anttrians fought with
their wonted bravery, and were immediately sup- pu
ported by a corps of Sixons ; the French gained uiii
at firft some ground, and it seemed to be their c' % n,!
jedt to break through the Austrian line. Our
troops begun already to fall back, when happy for lu
1 this city, the Arch-Duke arrived, and after him a
considerable corps of Austrian Cavalry and Weil
munfter ; another numerous corps ot Imperial
- troops approached at the fame time fiom the camp
of Rechtenbach. The French were then piilliing the
; out of the wood, on the border of which they ef
■ tabhfhed batteries, which kept up a tremendous
fire.
1 The Germans immediately ettablilhed two batte
ries, commanding the chief battery of the French, li
which was soon after turned by the Austrian caval- So
ry, and attacked in front by the Grer.adicrs a-nd
the Saxon Ltght;horfe, who flood Ceveral difclrar
pes of grape-shot ; the Uittery was trl>.er', and the
French were compelled to retreat ; but i£ was too aci
i,his day (he A tiflriaai went in p'urfuit of the.
enemy, arid> are already 4 leagues advanced fr-crr.
ihiseiiy.
At the commencement as the engagement of
yelierday, the French were superior in numbers ;
ut the Auftrians feeeired fucli powerful reinforce
ments- that, but far the night. The whole corps ef
Lefebvre mult have been dellroyed or made prtfo-
Rerc. Among the prifantrs brouifhtjn is a French j
Colonel of Cavalry who had received eight wounds,
i here w'ere in all seven pieces of artillery taken, 1
four nf which have been brought here. The
Light-Herfe ps Karauzay totok two, the Saxon
Light-Horse two, and we hear three have been ta- •
ken by the Grena liets. j
1 he Saxon Light-Horse had pne man killed and
47 wrtunded, among the littler several officers. The ;
•tvixon lftffered most,< they had a Captain ;
and a lieutenant killed ; one of their officers, and
four or five of the Chasseurs had thcii hands cut off, ;
by t'le trench cannoneers, when ihey were about
laving hold of the cannon in the battery.—The
lols of the Imperialilts cannot be exactly dated. j
Several inhabitants of this place who vilited the
whole fi.-ld of afiion, tmrnecUatelyvafter the battle,
maintain, that the nimiber of killed on each fide,
amountea to about 100, and from this they con- 1
chide that there might have been about 400 woun
ded on each fide. „ t
FRANC FORT, June >8. ]
Intelligence juil received from Nalleten, informs, *
that the French have again advanced on the heights
of hmi, i hey are rapidly marching over the I
bridge of Nvuwict). - i
HAMBURGH. June 28.
A Swedilh Courier arrived the day before vefter
dav from Fari«. After having Itayed two hours !
with Mr. de •. Noidenlkiold, the Swedish secretary f
of legation here, he continued in full speed his
journey to Stockiiolm. (
ELSINORE June 18.
fwo Englilh Fugatrs and a merchantman pas- I
fed yesterday the It] e of Anholt. Six or eight c
French Frigates and a Cutter, jt isfaid, have taken
off Bergen, about 13 English vessels, some of which 1
arrived in Not way. t
Philadelphia, 1
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER i, i 7 96. *
Extract of a letter from a gentleman in Maflachufetts,
to his frienQ in tins city.
. y*' e S enera l ticiilch and remarkably fruitful .season
v ' y jJ mentii»o are enjoyed here & I believe thro' c
our .Whole country. H o ,v great the blefiing I Asa ft
people, we have nut one blessing more, to alk of ilea- I
ven, Wisdom to improve our happy state I
1 lie Jacpbtns with ui*have really a iard time;
they have retailed io many old and new lies that they W
are now in the dumps, i n ly cannot raise the l'mallelt ..
breeze, or keep up the appearance of a party. 'J he
Der/lo locieties are deao ; and all Jacobinilm mult soon 7
toilow, uhlels ibme veiy unlucky events liiould turn
U P- I<
Ail political dilcourles, sermons, orations, com- j
perioi mantes, Jcc., this way, breathe pure
l antl the*s?armcft approbation-oi l the .Preli- t
dent, ftirpalDng toriaer times.
'• Govei ijor A. exerted his influence to prevent poli-
ties being introduced at commencement; but it i'erved'
only to oil the Uibceh , Ti/ch reiterated applauses were
-atyr beiore bckowed upon the orators who pro
nounced eulogiums on the Prelideni, and the federal
Government.— ihe jacobins seem to realise that they
are down, and down may they forever remain. They p
will long be l'.emembcreci for the evil they intended;
and long ought the people to renicHiber with gratitude
the goou providence which turned thetr wiliiorn to
fooijjlbru.fi, and ulaiied their evil deligns.—YVno can p
view our prosperous and happy country, 4*l refleii
what it might have been, witnout gratitude ?
"lam confident there will not be a Jacobin ele&ed W
or the next Congrds ia the Ealtern States ; and I am
informed the prol'pect foutliward is growing better." >c(
Extract of a letter from Virginia, August 15. f r
" I sincerely pray, that the United States may /
hold to their neutrality, and not be forced out of it by
a paiTionate 11-nfe of national honor and glory, which
would involve us in distress ten fold greater than the p
diflrelfing feelings pride will undergo by lubmitting to
aggreiiions : the war will soon be terminated j and,
the prudence of America will then give her more ce
leblity than could be gamed by any refentmenti Ihe
could express." 1
. 2
'} . P'
COMMUNICATION. V j
I f has cften been remarked, that the " excluGve pa- T
knots" 01 Paris, the enemies of the French cmftitution
appet r to be of the lame calt witK the enemies of the' r,
cfeuutuuoo ui this country. In a late Aurora the I'refi-
Otnr ut the United states"is violently Attacked in a trarifla
tiun lroni L.ouvct s beniWtilt. ihis we find is
implicated 111 the late conlpiracy at l J ari o to dettroy 'the
pi government ( ol France, and to restore the fan- -
guinary lyrm of a 793. Time wilflhew whether, there
is nut a Joj c connection between the anti-conltitutional
party in France and in this country. Our " exclusive
patriots," alter threatening the United States with the .
vengeance ol France lor-nearly two year,, can produce
iiotiimg to jultily their denunciations but the publication,
o! men who are engaged in a " terrible pftt" to overturn
tne coiilhtution of trance, and to mafl'acre the lcgillative
bodies and other constituted authorities.
——— A '
,* , 8 ' lav e received several anonymous requellsto B
piu 1. .t c names.of persons as candidates for different
uliKt's. l:.depeudcijt of uncertainty refperftmjr the incli
u itiou ol tile parties proposed, promiscuous publications
ot individual nominations- tend to >-..nf«fe and bewilder
the pouiic mind. Wt fhalfi therefore, omit pubhlhing ,
ajionymoua j ropelals, at lead for the present. -' r
WASHINGTON LOTTTERr, No. %. n
The 16th aud 17th Days' Drawing are received at
the office Ino. 147, Chefnut-ftreet. Uli
Ci
—========= ap
NEW-YORK v August 31.
We learn from London, that tir. Amasa Ding-
Liy.of this cily, is elojed memlfer of the Medical
SocifAy of the city of London.
From the Hudson Gazette. f
Mr. StodJnnl,
Permit me, thro' the medium of your Gazette, to
acquaint my frienda and fellow-citizen*,, the elec-
I • V
he. ty the honor of reprfer'iiig them in the Ceiigrefs
jtr. .if the Ujii'pid Stans, and fVom tlje/r repeated unlo
licited sleftion of tie, persuade myfelfof their ap.
of proving sentiment, I am cOn'tminsd, from conit
s; derations relative to the private concerns intereft
:e- ing to myleif and family, ro decii'.e tIR-jf fulfrages
ef at the next eledtioa for Repretenlajives in Coii
: gtefs. ' •,
«h j " EZ F.KIEL GILBERT.
js. Hudson, 24th Aoglifly l 7i>6-
•■a, 1 i«in Ti-» 1 1
he I x
GAZETTE OF THE UNITED SPATES MARINE LIST.
PHILADELPHIA, SepimUr\.
| A RRiViiD, dpys.
' if j Schooner Rally, O utten, Virginfi g
,n Slcop Sally, Dickey, Savannah 12
id CLEARED.
ff> Sloop Two Friends, Parker, New-London
ut Otive Btanch, Jarvis, , _ 1 Cnrrittie!c
he Kefiah, Biittell, C. N Mole
Schooner Pcriphas, Dunn, N- York
he Amelia Ann, White* Frederickfburg
' e > Pomona, Gardner," Boflon
ie, Caj>t. Clark of Schooner Boston, 11 days from Cape
n- Fi colt, left there —■ • '
rt . Brigs Two Sifters, Eaglefon ; Sally, Jackson ; Neu
trality. King ; Maria, Mason ; Schooners Experiment,
Johnson; Morning Star, Waters, and (loop Duntoii,
all of Philadfclphia ; and feveril others belonging to
ls > different the Unifed States.
ts Brig Governor Brooke, Kelly, from Cuba, is below,
tie Ship Eagle, Kearny, and Rebecca, Hughs, were ta
fail fromLoodon, about nth July,for Philadelphia.
'f- Arrivals al l\ r eib Tori—Augujl 31.
rs Schr. FiiendP.iip, Boyrdet, - Jimaici
■■y Sloop Tyger, Tracy, JKto'
is The Hiip Cheefeman is {afe arttved at Amster
dam, i *25days from New-York.
The {hip Hester, one of the English homeward
;f- bouud Weft India flcrt, Francis Pearfon,' oonnnan
it der, from Potman-Prince, oound to London, laden
:n with sugar andcolFee, was wrecked on the 13th Ju
:h ly at night, bet ween the hours of 10 and 11 o'clock
on the welt lide of the Island Hir.agua, the crew
saved. ,
Yellervay arrived the ship Olive Branch, Capt.
Provost, in ta weeks from Liverpool.
Captain Provost on the 51b July, fpofce the /loop
Democrat, Captain Potter, from New-London,
bound to Boutdeaux, out 20 days, «J1 well, long.
, 30.33-
' July £4, at 11 A. M. in long. 42, was bearded
n by a Fiench frigate from the Weft Indies, on a
cruise, two 74's in company. The Captain of the
a frigate told c«pt. P. that he was cruising for the
1- Jamaica fleet.
« Capt. P. on the 29th ffl! In with a very large fleet
' which he took to be the Jamaica fleet.
* August 19, spoke the brig Nymph, captain
c Webb, from Philadelphia bound to Bourdeaux, o ut
n 7 days.
n Same day, fpyke the ship Andiomache, c3pU:n
Kingston, from Philadelphia, bound to Cadiz, out
l " 11 days.
e The Sri j Two Polly's of Newhedfoid Captain \
Hawes, failed for New-York, 10 days before Capt.
■ Provost.
tl' The ship Jay, Capt. Dyer, was to fall for New
e York in two days after Capt. P.
Part of Baltimore.—Atigujl 29.
Arrived at the Fort on Saturday,
y Schooner Hawk, Capt. Knap, iz days from Port-de-,
- Paix. Left there, schooners , ICeene, PhiJadel
-5 phia ; Harriot, , Charleston ; brig Thomas,
c , do. Captain Knap brought Jo pailengers.
0 Ship Hope, capt. Coward, 17 days i'rom Port-au
" Prince.
' Sliip Hebe, M'Candlef?, 15 weeks from Amfterdara,
with 115 pairengers, buried toft on the pafTage.
Ship Dauphin, Rich, 19 days ftom St Croix.
Schooncr Sally, Benfon, 15 days from Cap'e-Fran
' cois. Left there brig Paddy, Reeves, Baltimore. .
Arrived yesterday, brig Peggy, Wallace, 18 days
from Kirigfton.
Y ' Schooner Elizabeth, Craig, ss day's from Cayenne.
f Brig Two Sifters, Hubbert, 17 days from St. TIIO
- '"mas.
: Extract of a letter from Do£tor Baker, Health of
ficer, dated Saturday evening, 9 o'clock, to capt.
' Jere:niah Yellott.
e " The Hebe has arrived at Hawkins's Point, in
15 weeks fr®m Amsterdam. She left port, with
235 paflengers, and arrived with about 120. The
principal difesfe at present appears to be the scur
vy. There are not more than a dozen confined,
though they all appear very much debilitated."
- The following Baltimore veflels were laying at
> Leogane on the Bth inft.
Brig MafFy, waiting for trial.
Sehooaer Providence, Harding, do.
Hannah, Philipt. cleared.
Watson's Answer to Gibson.
JUST RECEIVED,
And for sale by J. ORMROD, No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet,
Apology for Chriliianity, v
In a /eric 1 ef Letters, addrejfed to
Edward Gibbon, Esq.
Autkor of the Hittory or the Decline and Fall of the
Roman Empire*:
> Br R. WATSON,, D. b. f. k. s. Bifhsp of Landaff.
t (Price 75 cents bound )
Watson's Answer to Paine,
To be hid nt the fame place.
'The enemies of Religion are awake ! Let not her
' friends Jleep.
Sept.'i. , eotf
NOTICE;
THE Subscriber, having been reduced in his circum I
ftanecs, by ftindry misfortunes, and being thereby
unable to fatisfy his just debts, hereby give« notice to his
Creditors and to all pcrfons concerned, that he intends to
apply to the Geniral Assembly of Maryland at their next
session tp be held on the fir ft Monday of November next,
for the benefit of an of insolvency.
WILLIAM £DMO>pSON
1 Eafton, ift of the 9th month, 1796. lawtiMNi
LAUDING, w
frcm on board the ship STAR, Capt. Farnem.m,
5 About 150,000 bottles,
From Bristol—-For Sale by
WHBI p. uWfFor Sale, f '>'''
A LARGE EtECAWT AMD WZIX
Three-story Brick House, I legal
/ ' f a jj
(The late residence of General Walter Stewart)
WITH a LOT ©f GROUND thereunto belonging ff'P 1
the weft fide of Third-street, near ynion-flreet '
containing in front 32 Feet, and in depth too feet, to an
alley leading into Union-ftrcct. The house is 32 feet front
and 50 feet deep ; the several rooms contained in it arc .
large, commodious, and completely finilhed; the two firft
flories are each 13 feet high; there are 20 mahogany
doors in the house ; a geometrical staircase, with mahoga
ny rail sand a good Iky-light. The kitchen i* in the cell
ar, which is spacious and convenient, and finilhed with an
oven, ftew j holes and pantries, a fervartts' hall and larg
wine-cellar adjoining the kitchen, in front of which is an f
arfea in which there is a pump The yard is vaulted. Scb
Communicating with the said building is a neat three-story c
brkk ho«fe, on the north fide of Union-street, contain- c
ing 30 feet front by 20 feet deep; the lower part of which j
is at present occupied as a compting-houfe, and the upptr
part divided into wcii-finifhed large chambers. This house t=
may at a small expense be converted into a convenient
dwelling : The street door is very handsome, and the front
and back have Venctran \v in do w-fh utters. Adjoining the
lift house, upon the lot belonging tq the firft, are erected
bathing-rooms, &£.' There are likewise very good coach
ho'j'fc and (tables finilhed equal (or nearly so) with apy in
the city, on a lot containing on Union street 30 feet, and
in depth 011 the weft fide of said alley 5a feet. There arc
good cellars unde* the whole of the buildings, and a wiiit
room over part of the stable, with a hay-loft over the re
mainder. For further particulars enquire of
EDWARD BQNS LL* & Co.
At their Office No. 64 Dock-street. between Walnut & Pear
co ftrfeets.
6th month 24th, 1706. , /
To be fold by public sale,
ON Wedneflay, the 7th day of Septemb?r* iiext, on
the fremiti's in Mount-HoHy,3-.irimgt6rii6unty,by
the Subscriber,
The- Dwelling-House and Lot
Wherton it (lands, having been in part occupied as a (lore ,
for several years past, and in a good stand lor buficefs,to
gether with the store-house, ftatile and buildings „.ereon
ereAed, having two large ■ ellarsunder them. Alio, the
{hop goods and ficufehold furniture. A clear title will be
given to the purchaser on payment of the money or fuf
fic'.tnt bondtheiefor, and pofTeflion of the premises will
be given in the said month of September.
The <ale is to continue 'till the whole is disposed of.
Mount Holly having become rhe County Town, makes
this property more valuable than heretofore. The condi
tions willbe madeknown at the time and place of sale, by
PETER. SHIRAS.
N. B. All persons indebted to the fubferiber, are request- .
citc difchargethe fame immediately, as he intends soon
■ to remove out of this state. Any person having a just de
mind against the fubferiber, is requested to produca the
fame for settlement. • Hs>2w
Mount Holly, August 16, 1796.
Samuel Richardet,
RESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN.and MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in the
city of Philadelphia:
The Subfcriprion Rootn will be furnifhed with all the
daily papers published in Philadelphia, N:w-York, Bos
ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com
mercial cities of Europe-—They will be rsgularly filed
and none permitted to be taken avstey on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
of French Liquors; together with the usual refrefhments,
will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the molt
approved Malt Liquors-trorr. London and other breweries.
The Lanjrr will befupplied with the prime and earliest
production? of the Season.
Large and fma'.l Farties, or (ingle Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Supper*, at
hours most conv nient to themselves—a cold Collation is
regularly kept for conveniency, the Bill of Fare to be had
at the- bar.
"The Lodging Rooms will be completely furniflied, acd
the utmost attention paid to cleanliness, and every other
requisite.
Simuel R/chardet will be happy to receive, and
execute the-commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfelf that nothing 011 his part (hall be wanting to pre
serve that patronage With which he has been so diftinguilh
ingly honored.
, Philadelphia, April 19. eo
'At a special meeting of the Board of Di
rectors for efiabWfh'mg ufeful Manufactures, koldcn
at Paitrferi, 'July 8, 1796,
RESOLVED, That z special meeting of the Stock
holders of the Society be called on the firft Monday,
being the third zj of October next, at Paterfon, by ten
of the clock of the fame day ; then and there to take
into confi&cration the propriety of difTolving the said
corporation, agreeably to the law in such cafe made and
provided—and the Stockholders are earnestly requcfted
to attend the said meeting in person or by proxy.
August 27 dt^othO
Lands of the United States
Trta r ury department, -dugujl 3, 1796.
Public Notice is hereby Given,
IN pnrfttance of an ait of Coiigrefs, pafjTed on the 18th
day of May, P',6, entitled' " Aa a-A providing " for
*he fie of the landsbf thi United States, in the Territo
ry ECrtli weft of the river Ohio, and above the mouth of
Kentucky river," fbat tf>e ft A ion; or land descri
bed in the annexed fchedule.lyiug in the seven ranges bf
townships, which v.ere'fuFvtyed m pursuance of an ordi
nance of Congrefs,p*aiTed on the t" enticth day of May,
in th<*: year one thousand seven hundred and eighty-five,
will he expoled forfale at Public vendue, in the town ol
rittfburghin Pennsylvania, on the twenty-fourth day of
Oclober nest, and tjienceforwaM, from day to <}ay until
the firft dav of December eniuing.unlefsthe said lots shall
he sooner fold, in the manner,"and on the terms and con
ditions here n after mentioned, to wit:
ill. The said feSions or lots (ball be fold under the di-
Teftion ef the Governor or Secretary of the Western Ter
ritory, and such person as. the Prdiden: of the United
States may fpeciallv appoint for that purpose.
id. The said feiiions or lots shall be frit! to the highest
bidcfer'.but no fsle can he made for less than two dollars
per acre of the quantity of land comained in fucli lot or
leflion.
j. The highest bidder as before mentioned, mud depo
sit at the time of sale, o:;e twer.;i-eth part of the pure afe
, money, in the iiamis bf such person as the Prefidei:t of the
UniteilStates fnall appoint to aiteni the tales for that pur
pose, which will bo forfeited, if a moiety of the Satr. bid,
including the said twentieth part, (hall not be paid within
thirtydays from the tim« of sale.
4 tii. Upon payment of a moiety of thepnrchafe monev
in thi manner before mentioned, the purchaser wi 1 be
entitled to biie ye ir s credit for the remaining moiety ;
m.' shall receive from th^Governor «r Secretary of the r
Western Terrilory, aa« the person who shall he appointed
ly Ihe P refluent of the UhitcdStues, to direct rhe sales a
ctrti/icite defcribiug the hit or raion purchafrd, and de
claring thefum pakl on account, the balance remaining due
the time when such balance becomes payable, and~ that'
the whole find therein mtntieoed ,will te foriited. if the
> <" ' 1 -
fufl baUnce is not then paid ; but if the said balance iWj ]
be duly difcharged,+>y paying tfeefinse to the ■.u: : -
the United Scutes, the purchaser or his aflig.ice or other
le<ral representative, ihrdl be entitled to a patent ior u:
said lands, on his prodicing to the Secretary of Stite a re
eeipt for such balance endorsed upon the certificate, but J
if any purchaser shall make payment of th 4 whole of the 1
pur chafe money, at the time when the payment or the « d ,
firft moiety is to be made, he will be entitled to a
deduction of ten per centum on the oari for ere
| dit is authorized to be given; and his patent fha.l be in- jj £nt
mediately iffned. J e j cr
Given under ms hand at Philadelphia, the day and
year above mentioned. nrxlir
• . ' OLIVER WOI.OOTT,
' Secretary of the Trerrfury
.he!
Schedule of fsa'ions of town,libs, or fraSrnal farts )hy
)■ of town/hips, to be fid at Pitt (burgh, in'fiurf-tmce unti
of the 6th ftiion of an aft of Gongrefs, pajfed on, <™ai
1 the 18ih day of May, ""n
I i <=rrr- higl
\ i . r. ]. d ° !i
r 1 I J » 2 l -'8 js • c l^,a,
i |l Ih i 1 Jtp" $
1- Z I - p Z ■ % -ha I
1 ■ - - — 1 -- - ■»' *> . 1 Stat
° id Range. iSth Townfhtp. 6th Hanoi. incl
ift Township. San64o'each iftTownfhip.
a 8 65 14 640 17 320 \
29 i.; 695 17340640 each r8 j?o nf y
30 150 75 153-56 640 each 21 8-50 be (
34 240 90 BthTownfhip. 2z ji66s 40 and
sr '3i a 36 64ofeach 3214 jj '4:7 fhif
ad Tewnfhip 17320 64c each j, 24 640 the
19 14° 23 640 ! 27 151 80 bee
20 I/O. 70 25330 64c each :28ato640 eath tior
21 185 ■ 33336 64oieach | !58 P ai <
in 22 230 iothTownfhip 34a.16 ! 640 each pay
iy 25 488 80 ia2 [640 each 2d Township. tils'
26327 64c each 5314 640 each j 126
28 560 / 17320:640 each 2 440
re 29 551 60 23a3',i64Cfai-k 3 448
3 . 30 564 i2thTowni!iip. 4 + j6 m ' l
in '>40 eich ja 14 64: leach 5 464 !' m
ie 4thTownfhip. 17226 640|t-ach 6 452 c ' n '
>e *9 fi 4j . 7 343 v ,
n 4th Range.
26 387 60 lftTownfh ;
17 - ,6 o- /,,/• ,i .
if. 31132 64C<acb '_ o 3d Township..
li- 34 445 20 3° AC 2 478
>y 1 c 221 r o - , 1
rA 55a ;C'4o each 3 /
5 th! ownfhip. * 494; of
5Q A Tm 2 6° , I I * ual
o 139 , / 1 6 cio
e >4oeach , the
12 479 3*l \ I 7314 640 each
17 3°4 15 0 17320 640 ea^h
!; 0 each each
— 23 450 7j sthTownfhip. .
24 640 W 1 rlB te
2 9 184 ,14 40 , 2 - a 6 S
-c 6ko 14c each 5"
?n 'l r ~, o. 4333? $40 eiifh 3 I.l*
Y II lie 3dTownfhip. 4 '" 4 °
J J =' iai4|64oeach o"
id Range, I7a2o|64o'each , 2
he iff Township. each
>f * 28 ] 71 20 s tbTownfhip.
"J 34- ! 615® .31416401 each ?;VT' 64C '' aCh ~
3d Township. J7a;cJ64o cach ' Township.
2432664 c -ach each 1
28 1499 16 7thTownfhip. a 40
29 : 64C iaz 64oltach 3 e.
!th 3 1 a33|64o|cach 5 a7 640' each 4 60
4tii rownfhip. r 44^ ! each 4 ,
es. it 16 40 18819640 each 601
eft *2 397 5° 25 640 7iM 64c each
13 5 1 30336 640 each 1 7iic 64c iach
be 15 27 50. 9 thTownfhip 2333664-each
at 16 2,-9 20 iai4]6 4 c|eath ?i h Townfliip.
is 17 524 17320 64c each l al 4 40.eacb
lad 18 64c 23336 64oleachl ' al ° f>4'^*ach
19 63« 1 itliTownfhip. 2 333_6 640 each
ii:d 20 584 80 1314)640 each Ilt "Townfhip.
ber 21 '636 21 17120 64b each lal 4 64c each
22836 64c each 23*36 640 each 640 each
ind sth'fownfhip. i3thTownfhipJ 23 a -'®' 6 40 each
at 5 63( 1 ai 4 64c eachl I 3 tnT ownfhip.
K ts 6a7 64c each 17320640 each' 1814 •>4c|e3ch
2332564 ach 13836 J 7 aJO
lW " 2731864 ach ~ = 23 a 3&640 each
32a-,6 6 4 c ach 5 i n ? ls thT "«nn»P-
L 7thTown(liip. 1 °wnfhip. ia each
3 !640| " z? 4 40 i7a2o'64ojeach
BthTo\vnfhip 21 J 3 *3*,«4o.each
la J each I] T,l S ° | 71H rTnce.
6 440 26 no IftTownfhip.
7ai4 640cach * ' 30 1 41-o
liy ' 17aid640each
£ -jaae , t,ip
- i;s -o 32 u: so! i 6 4 .
fted ' 33 a 36 64c each <>4b eacn
, , " j 2d Township. i 9 2 9°
1.,314 14c eatb ioai2 64c each
_ i9a2o64ceach *° | , 4 , 0
23a 3 6164P each 3 430 yaiS 640 each
3d Rangf. 5 456 |r9 *4
2d Township. 6 464 80 20
o t , 15.640 7 2<o 23324 640 each
fir 16 6co 8 618 I ; gc .
ito- 10 557 5° 9»14 64oeach j6n ,37 6 4oje-»cli
In s 2ia22 64c each 17 a2O 64c each 4t " °w"'r"P
"cri- 2.\ 609 123 A36|64o!each ial/ =4oeach
■s of 25236 64oeach 4th I ownftip. i '7 3 20 64p|earh
rdi- 3d Township. I ai4i64o|each I 3 a 3^64cieach
lay, 9 188 60 i7a2o,64oleaeti] 6thTownfhip.
ivc, 10 344 233361640 each 1 414 64°|each
ol 11 267 ' 6thTownfhip. 17"0;64s each
■of 12 152 1 ai4]64o|each 1
intil 14 202 50 lyaxo 64el:ach! | Stb 1 ownilnp.
haU 15 6jo 23136,6401 ach ! 1314 "4tjeach
:on- 16a 18 640 each BthTownniip. i l ' 4 4c each
19 217 50 iai4|64o]each 2 3 a 36 64c each
dl - 20 6x675 17320164-eachl lothl lownfh'P
' er- 21336 640 each 23336 64o|each ! la l4^4Cleach
lothTownfhipJ I 7 a 2° 64c each
1 ijo iai4|64oU;ach j 2 3 a 36 6 4 cleaqh
: „ e 2 544 1712 c '140 each' lathTownftip.
It or 3 330 2313616401 each Vi^cli
4 45°
epo _ 5 I2t' xai4 64c e3ch 23136 (>n rjeach
. a j- e 6 640 17320 640 each^^tbTownfhip.
fthe 7 J63 23336 64oeach iai4j64;|each
pur- ® a 9 64oeach i4thTownfhip. 17*20 642 each
bid, 10 54C 80 I ai4 640ieach 23 a 36 64c each
itnin 11 529 70 17320 640 each I'th-Townfhip.
I2ai464oeach 231 3 6 64oe4ch lal 4 64o]each
oney 17320640 each I l7aio 64ojeach
Ibe 43336640 -ach 1 23336 640' each
el 7 • NOTE.
de- I** US ?bt-Th'j ag-
Z, Sn S , . fCVeral t - oW ' r "'- or fraflional
that • 3VC btC "r r bv actual fur
fthc U? ' ' Particular lot-, or fediot. have
b " n no afcert3inad than by cakd.tkT'
Lands'of the United States. '
Treasury Department, g
Augfi/f <8> 1 5
Public Notice is hereby given, J
; TtJ ourfuance of an ait of Cotigrefs passed on the igth c
' i j ,t... 0 f vlav,. 1796, entitled "an a't pro'. , ling .
1 Jelfe of the Lands of the United State,, in the territory %
• the river, Ohio, and above « the mouth of
' Kec : acl;"v" river," that the Quarter To,v*!h.p* or land
delcrib-d in the annexed schedule, lying in thefeveu rang
-4 •0| townfbips whieh were surveyed in pursuance of a
1" r* nf ronirrefs" nafferi on tne twentieth day of
Sfc
„ J „I.\ -V tT'h '-/o f Fubrusry enfoing. unlets tne said
barter towufr.ip Oiallhe fconsr fold, in the manner and
on the tern., a,.d conditions i.cTennfter menuoßed . viz
Hi The said quarter townthips shall be fold to he
- highlOf bidder, but no sale cm bemade for Jess than two
dollars per acre of the quantity of land contained in such
' q "id f bidder as before mentioned, mult de
nofit a' the time of sale, one twentieth part of the pur
chase monev, in the'hands of the Treasurer of the United.
— States, which will be .forfeited if a moiety of the sam bid,
including the said twentieth part, fha.ll notb# paid within
thirty days from the time -of sale. ,
J Upon payment of a moiety of the purchase-mo
ney in *he manner befor-mentioned, the purci.eier ■ will
be entitled to one year's credit for the remaining moiety ;
and Ihall receive a certificate describing the quarter town
ship purchased, and declaring the sum paid on account,
the balance remaining dae, the time when inch oalante
becomes payable, and that the whole Land thetein men
tioned ivifche forfeited, if the said balance is not then
paid : but if the said balance fiiall be duty discharged, by
paying the fame to the Trtafurer of the. United State*,
the'-pu: chafor or his assignee or other legal reprefentat.ve,
flull be entitled to a,patent for the said land, 011 his pro
duciog to the Secretary of State a receipt for l'uch balance,
endorfedupon the certificate. But if any purchaser fcaU
make payment of the whole of the purchase-money at the
time when the payment of the fir ft moiety is dire&ed to
be made, lie will be entitled to a deduction of ten* per
centum on the part for which a credit is authorized to be
given; and hi. patent frail be immediately jffucd.
GIVEN under my hand Philadelphia, the day
aiiii y ear abovomentioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
-SCHEDULE
1 Of Quarter-Townships to be fold at Philadelphia, in-pur
fuaiice of the-6th feclion of an ad of Congress pafled on
the 18t,h day of May, lyjb
>
£ • si
&■ % >
sj- a o
|1 £ u. H
x . > > o
Crf o r° *i >- -5
r_ -h It <u
f— *• i- n rs
OW p v
o c c 5 .=
Z e 5 Z •«
2O| S •
_____ H
2 Sooth Ealt 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Well
5 I2 ° I
J 20,480
3 5 Smith East 5120
Nonh East 5120
South Weft j 120
North Weft 5120
20,480
I South East 5120
North East 51 jo
South Weft 5120
North Wsft 5120
— 20,480
9 South East j-120
North Ealt j 120
South Weft j 120
North Weft 5120
20,480
II South F.aft 5120
North East j 120
South Well 5120
North Weft .5120
20,480
4 4 South East -5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120 , ,
North Well 5120 t
I 20,480 «
6 [South East 5120
1 North East 5120
South Weft 5120
' North Weft 5120
20,480
t 8 South East c 120 . '
North East 5120 !
I South Weft' 51 20 i
North Weft 5,20 j ; .
20,480
10. South East j1 20
North East 5 120
! South Weft 5120
b North Weft, jr2o
II | 20,480
'• 12 South East 5120 '
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
Nottb Welt Cl2O
h e l \4 — 20,• '
h 5 ! 3 ou tn Eaft l 4602
b North East 4654
'• South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
o . t- r l 9'W 6
j 5 South East 5120
h North East 5120
h SolithWeft j 120
h North Weft 5120
'• „ , 20,480
1 7 South East 5120
North East 512 c
South Weft 5 120
North Weft 5120
,5 20,480
>y the £ 9 South East 5120
y ag T North East ci 20
lional !,, , tIT „ J
1 fur- .South Weft 5120
have iNorth v\ eft s'^°
: — 2 483
. | —• »• ... » uj.i vina CO' -13 •.*,!„ o!Cßturr««
. *2 i A
m CO • —
fd- £ -£
o J3 os
£
« •§* * 'o £
ci <£ 9 »
E H ii -a
U- > O '_»
• H I < I!
f Z 15
IW O T
£-*
' ' ( 1
! r II ! SpUth East JI2O
f N?rth East y 120
South Weft 5 120
North \Veft 5 120
20,480
<3' 13 South East j 120
d Noith East yI 20
t S iuth Welt 5120
' North Weft 5 120
; h [20,480
5 4 South EaC 4630
e- North East 4620
r- South Wed 5120
North Weft 5120
if ; —: 1 9.490
6 South East 4730
a- North East 47 15,
;il Sou-h Weft 51201
North Weft 5120' \
I i —! '9.68s
cc 8 7?o»t.h East 5120;
n- North East 5 120
- c Sou ill Well 5 120
North Weft 5 12C
t • | 20,480
o. 10 jSouth East 5120
:e, |North East 5I 20
f, South Wcft'si2o
*1 | : North Welt 5 120
cr I ; It — 29,480
bS j I 12 South East 5120
jNdrtfi "Eiff jTF2O * ~"T r~r-r--
a ? iSouth Wt-ft y1 20
■North W»ft 5120
20,480
14 South East 5 1 20
North East yl2O
South Weft y1 20
North Weft jr2o
on ' 20,480
7 3 South East 5 120
Noith E a 51,20
South Welt y 120
North Weft 5120
20,480
5 South East J I 20
North East y 120
South*Wfft 5120
North Weit 5 120
<■ 20,480
7 South East 5j 20
North Eaftyl2o
South Weft y 120
North Weft c l 20
j 20,480
9 tfouth Etiltj y 120
North KalVy-reo ——_
South Weit. y 120
North Weft yiao
20,480
11 South East y 120
Noith East y 120
Souih Weft $ 120
• North Weft y 1 20
_— 20,480
13 South Ealt 5120
North Eafliji2o
South Wc'l y 120
North Weft y 120 • j
20,480
15 South East 5120
:North East y 1 2®'
South Wefl yi2o
North We ft y 120
20,480
NOTE
THE quantities of Lands in the feveraltownfiiips be
fore mentioned, are ixclifive of the SeAions reserved by
the United States. The aggregate quantities in the seve
ral townlhips, have been ascertained i>y actual survey ; but
the quantities in the quarter tswnlhips, have been no
otherwise afcertaineJ than by calculation.
YVafhmgton Canal Lc -
NO. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland h
the underwritten, to raise twenty- • '*»
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purp-: --
a Canal through the City of Wafhingtan, from th W;
tomacto theEaftern Branch Haruour.
The following is ths SCHEME of No. I.
Viz 'J Prize 01 20,000 dollars, 20,000
1 ditto 10,000 10,000
Ti3K.tr}
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
i JO ditto 400 4,(500
zo ditto 100 1,000
55 ditto 50 2.75°
S7SO ditto Ii 69,008
To be ralfed for the Canal, 26,250
5850 Prizes, 17J>°°°
11650 'Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - I7si°°°
The ConuniSioners have taken the Securities re 1
quired by the aforefaid aft for the putidtual payment »f
the prizes.
The drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will*t>e given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix motitiis after the
drawing is finifhed, lhall be coufider. d as relinquifteffbr.
the benefit of the Canai, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed j NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, of D
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
f'HOMAS LAW,
AMES BARKY.
City of Washington, Feb. 11. §
PRINTED B H N FEN N C
—No. 11 9 —
CHESNUT-STREET. *
[Price Eight Dcl'ars per .♦.nittm.j