/ ■ t ■* j/.. , ■' ' . _ y*. s~
affe BlUttti &mm, & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.'
fJuMStR 1359.] MONDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 12, 179 C. [Pox.£/Af£ X.
1 . . _ ' 1
For bt.
77* Irigantine FAME,
1 Francis Knox, Mailer.
at Walnut Street wharf and expsft
to Ml in two or three day*. F" P aira S e a P ply
to the captain, or, j££^ R^Y WHARTON.
§6t.
Dec. 6. —
For Sale,
Tie Ship ADEL AID E,
vgj&TwL Of New Tot'k.
I Lying at the fubkriben's wharf—-bur
"a ind fails fatter than any vessel out of the port of New-
Yerk. Apply to WILLIAM BELL.
Who ha. received by the feid Ihip from Charleston—
tj Tierce, fr.fh Rice, and a few caAcs of Ground Nut..
Dec " 6 "
• £jla For sll s° arrd Killibe s s^
fiMu American Sh'tp Nanct,
VlSffimT&L Cuthbert R'ggs, master.
gggglgwiU fail with all convenient speed. For :
William Bell;
Who his for ft'e. ?
. Trunks Printed Coitus, well aflorted
j Bales Irish Flannels, and % boxes Lmens
s? Pipe. Brandy _
Madeira Wine ; Indigo. Russia Marts.
Alio,
A few barrel# Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
OATMEAL, &c.
November n, *79 6 » mwftf
*-—<= For Madeira,
7"i>? Jhip Concord,
Capt. John Thomson. For freight
pailace apply on board, or to
Peter Blight ;
Who has for fait, a quantity of
Brandy, in pipes
Whiting and Copperas, in hogsheads
Old Hock, in eases
Dutch Cream-Checfc, in boxes
Window Glass
Empty Gin-Cases
GUfs Ware, in boxes
Painters' Colours, ground in oil
Sweet Oil, in cases of a dozen beislet each
Hazlenuts, in sack». Nov. ri. dim
■jr** FOR SALE '
THE SHIP MART,
sAiwtrei. pa-rkbk, Mimn,
hundred toiwhurthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, 3c Co.
If the MARY is not fotd in a few da)*s, file will take
freight for Hamburg. Apply as abovt.
OtSober ji. d
For Charter,
£•3-, The Ship JOHN BULKEL Y,
AyREs Stockliy, Master.
I® An excellent live-oak and cedar built
'Ps ■°f a b out 3000 barrel, burthenAp-
Jeffe & Robert Wain.
Nov. - d.
For Sale, or Charter,
J&L The Ship DIANA,
ffifa■■ Samuel. Pile, Master,'
Burthen »o5 47*95 tons register, built in
Philadelphia in the year 1791, of live 01k
and red cedar, and was sheathed 13 months ago, (be
has just had a compleat out-fit, and miy be frtt to sea
at a very trifling expence.
For terms apply to
Philip Nieklm & Cb.
Who have for fall oa board said vessel,
Vt calks of fine yellow paint'.
9 boxes and it bundles of writing slates.
t box ink stands and note presses.
14 hales of fail canvass.
And on hand,
Imperial ~)
Hj>fon, and, >• TEAS.
Souchong J
*9fDoo pieces Nankeeas of the firft quality.
19 tubs Qnickfilver.
5 chests Bandanno handkerchief..
A few chests MancHester goods well aflorted in Cor
duroys, thickfetn, Ginghams, Mufltnets, Dimities, &e.
3. boxes black sewing fUk.
IXO cratss Queens ware well afiorted.
10-tpns ftee? lead.
Nails ailbrted, flat and slurp point..
Lon lon Particular, Madeira Wine in pipe.
London Market, V and hogffltl ds.
New-YorV Market, j
40 pipe# and ro hogfteada Tcncriffe wtnf.
8 tierceg Snake Root.
230 fo£s Mahngany.
• Nov 7. tfhVfeftf
A Manufadory FOR SALE.
A taWble SOAP anri CANDLE Manufactory, situate
irt a o)t<vrnient part ot the city ; the work* almost: mw,
on aa irr.ly oripinal cpnftruftion, and built of ihe bef\
materia!*, and mav he fct to work immediately. Person*
v/Vio to ate requcfVed to apply at No 273,
SotifK «<-cond Street. Seotember 13. t t f ti
FOR SALE,
About 1,600 acres of Land,
'VELL situated, laying on and between Marsh
and Beech Creeks, ?4ifflin county, Pennsylvania, in
fqur separate Patents. For terms ot sale apply to
Wm. Elackburn,
No. $4, Ssath S'cond-ltreet.
Oflo')i*r 31, mwftf
Washington Lottery.
- i TICKETS, warranted may be pnrchafed or
exchanged for prize, at. the Office, Ho. 147. Chcfnut
ftreet, where a corrait Numerical Book is kept for public
infpe&ion. Also Canal Lottery Tickets For falc or ex
changed for prize, diawn in the W'afhington Lottery, of
which the 44th and 45th days returns arc received.
The Business of a Broker enrried on at usual.
*.* A SHARE in the NEW TWEAI RE to be fold
on reasonable terms. December 9. ttstf
, ~..V FO R SAL K7
At Whh'efides' Tea Wars-House,
No. 99.. North Se'ond Street.
Imperial, r Hyson Ski..
Hyson, > Frefii Tea#. < Sonchong,
Young Hyson,' J(_ Bohca
• Pec, n. yawjm.
Davis's Law Book Stbre,
No. 313, HIGH-STREET.
GEORGE DAVIS announce, to hi. profellional friends,
artd the Sentlem' 1 !! of the L»w, generally, through the
Union, that hi. late importation of BOOKS it now arrang
ed, and rr»dy for Sale, from a finele volume to an entire li
brary, without any advance upon his former excetdiag low
priees, which for several yean pail have in so diftingutlhcd *
manner recommended them to notice.
Printed Catalogues combining the mnft extensive collec
tion ef the latest Englilb and Irish Editions ever importrd
- into this country, are published, and will be delivered gratis
on application.
Orders addressed to G. D. in wtitUg from any distance
(hallbe pun&oaliy attended to.
A number of TRUNKS for Stle,
ALSO, TO BE LET,
A convenient. LOFT, oear Maiket Street Wharf.
N'ov.3- tu&f3»P
For Sale,
By J. WARDER, PARKER & Co.
An Invoice of Cordage,
Confifling of <liffereni fize6, from 1 z inch cables down
to rope of j irches, of different lengths: Imported in
the flup'Bwift, fcom Hull, and entitled to drawback.
Sept. 37 dtf
Bank of North America.
THE STOCKHOLDERS are hereby notified that an
eleflion for twelve Directors lor the ensuing year will be
held at the Bank on Monday the 9th of January at ten
o'cWck.
RICHARD WELLS, Cashier.
. Dec, 6- ' ; §t;j.
To be Rented,
A Large Vault and Cellar,
That will contain aco in Walnut
between Fourth and Fjfth-ftreets. Also a COACH
HOUSE and STABLE, with Stalls for five hprfes.
N. B. Goods Stored by the raonth.
November 30. mwfii
For vSale,
By the Snbfcribers—ln PENN-STREET,
65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
Imported by the Eagle.
WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
"Jfey. j9' svgtf_
Just Landing,
At South jlreetiuharf, from n bemrd the fh'tp
ley, Captain Hodge, from St. Petersburg,
The following Goods :
Ruflu Sail Duck, firft quality.
Do. Sheeting do.
Do. Diaper.
Doi Huckaback.
Do. Craffe.
Do. Mon'd, Candles, 4, 5 'and 4, to thi lit. ef the
English fir*.
Do. White Candle Tallow.
Do* White Soap in small boxes.
Do. Cordage of fine yarn.
Ravens Duck.
Isinglass, id and |and fort.
Horfc Hair uncurled.
Russia Bar Iron.
Do. Hoop Iron.
Do. Nsil Rods.
10 Tens Oakum and jnnfe.
St. Peterfl)urg Clean Hemp:
Tor S«!e by
Philips, Cramond, & Go.
October tz. §
Le Breton,
• SURGEON-DENTIST,
Pupil of the celehrated Mr. Dubois, late Dentist to the
King and Royal Family of France, member of the
College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris,
Keeps a complete aflo'tment of every thing neceffiry
to be used for the
Prefcrvation of the Mouth and Teeth.
Patent Minoral Teeth, and Human ic Ivory Teeth ;
Dentrifice in powder ; Opiate ; excellent Elixir for
sweetening the mouth and preserving the teeth-*-he
also furniflies Bruflies and foft Sponges.
*„* He lives in Chefnut-ftreet, No. 135, abeve
Fourth-flreet.
November t6. tts
Imported in the late arrh'-ih from Europe and the
Wefi-Indiet,
Holland Gin, ift pipes
Choice St. Croix Sugar and Kum
Martinique Molafl«s, in hoglheadi
Choice old Liibon Wine, in pipes and quarter-casks
London Particular & London Market Madeira Wine,
in pipes, half-pipes and quarter-casks
Malmfev Madeira Wise, in pipes and quarter-calks
Tenerifte Wine, in pipes
Rviilia & Flemilh Sheeting and Ravens Dunk, in cases
Window Glass, 3 by 10, in boxes
Coffee Mills and Straw Knives, in casks
Mill Saws and Cross-cut Saws, in boxes
Also, on hand,
A few chests of Bohea Tea; Jesuits Bark ; Aflafos
tida and. Tapioca j and a few bales of Celiacs,
Baftas, Gurrahs, Bandanna and Muslin Handker
chiefs, and a complete aflortment of 5-4 and 6-4
Bjulting Cloths.
For Sale by
Pragers Iff Co.
Oflober so diwm&thym
For Sale,
By "Jehu HMngfworth, - Co.
1; hhds. Weft-ln<lia Ruin, 3d and 4th proof,
j Barrels best Indigo, and,
A few tlicufand buCieii of Turk's Iflacd fait.
OA. 17. ' d.
EZEKIEL HALL
HAS k.EMOF"£D his Comphiie-Koom to No. 41,
North Weter-flreet, where he bat tor f»!e
Boston Rum, Beef & Mackarel.
December 8. J
Far Sale at this Office,
Twenty-fix Letters, upon inte
resting fubje&s,
Rcfpefling the Revolution of America ;
Written in Holland in the Year 17810, ~
B; hit JF.xrelUncy JOHN ADAMS,
- While he was so e Minifler Plenipoter tiary from the
United States of America, for negotiating 1 Peace,
and a "IYeaty of Commerce, with Great-Britain.—
A fav copies of the above pamphlet are yet oh hand, Is
and may he had at the offic: of the Gasette of the United
dtatct, No. 11 j, Chefuut-ftreet. n
Dec, t. « ' £
THE Partßerfhip of JONATHAN HARVEY «c C». D
being this da 7 Diffolred by mntual con feat, those indebt- j}
ed to said ftrrr* ate requested to raatce speedy payment to pj
Jonathan Harvey, who is authorized to receive the fame,
av.d those who have any demands will pjeafe to bring in
th«ir accounts to him for fettfement
The Bujtnefs will be Continued -
By Jonathan Harvey, _
AT ms STORE NO. rofi, S. FRONT-STREET;
Where he has for Sale,
A general aflortment of Day Goons, v
November 14, 179 ft. $«n T
Wm. No. 76,
HIGH-STREETy A
Wis received by the late arrivals,
A IVell Selefrd /tssortmxnt of
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and B
Haberdashery Good^s,
Which he will fell, wholefile and retail, en the very
lowest terms ; H
Amotgjl which are A
Some elegant 4-4 and 7-8 Chintzes and Cottons, new A
patterns Si
Ditto Fr.rnitiire ditto L
Ditto Dimity G
Tamboured, Book, and"T*onet MufUnt jy
Ditto in Gold and Silver
Ditto Neckcloths, very fins
Mant'-ns of the firft quality
Hilk and CV.ttoD HoGcry
Umbrella" of the firft quality, atTortcd
Iriffi l inens, very fine, arid Table Linens -
Marfeiliss and Cotton Counterpane*
Rofc Blankets a (Tor ted—See. &c.
'OAobtr ?,6. d
Irish Linens, &e. &
|
Irrpitted per the fiips Ghfgci'.\ ffjm DuLlik, Liber
ty, from Cork, and brig Mentor, from B lfajl,
4.4 and 7-8 Wide IRISH LINENS,
In whole and half boxes,
ASorled from I id. to 4s. furling—Alfo 5- 4 wide w
Sheetings, and low priced yarn and woriled Hof«. Cl
On Hand, ~
7-g Wide I.awn«.
Dupers and Table-Cloths n
A few boxes Tickens and Chtcks u
A few half Flannels
C»tl and Eelfaft Sail Cloth, Nos. 1 and 6 a
45 Boxes f 6 by 8, e
ic Ditto > Window Glass, < 7 by 9, F
5 Ditto 3 C 8 by 10. a
T he above men'kined Goods are all entitled to the
drawback, arid will be disposed of by the package on a
reasonable Mints.
James, Clibborn &,Englifh,
No. 6, N. Froqt-ftreet.
loth mo. 19th. r dtf
— t -
Best Boston Sc Nova-Scotia Mackarel,
Excellent Halifax Salmun ia bblo. f
47 bbk. prime Coffee,
Bed Boston Beef,
CodflJh in hds. £
Spermaceti Candles,
Spermaceti, and 1 n , r
Northern J
Mould and dipt, tallow candles, of a superior
quality.
A few excellent brown soap,
6 Bales of Corks.
40 Pipes excellent Liibon Wine.
A few iacks of Feathers.
A few bales India Muslins. £
FOR SALE BT n
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
Od\6ber 31. d
— —- y.
; Fashionable Waistcoatino.
GEORGE DOB SON, No. 25, s
SOUTH THIRD-STREET, r
Hat received per the Diana, from London,
Clouded and striped Spanith Swanfdowu
Clouded Erminats and Moleskins c
Striped do. acd do.
Figured Manillas • ,
Scarlet figured F.rminetJ C
Printed Florinett6 ti
Do. Caffinets and Caftimeres (1
Superfine printed Q£i!tings, newest patterns h
Also, per different arrivals, n
A large and general afTortment of Dry t b .
Goods, »'
Suitable to the present and approaching season.
November j. dtf
■ ■ ——— " o
Cheap French China. "
THE fubferibers finding it itnppffble to fiipply their
store with any more China from Prance, the prices t .|
being too immoderate in the mtnufaiflancs, give no- f,
tice that they will fell at prime coll the remaining y
stock on hand, conlifting of " e
Deflert Setts, n
Tea-Table Setts 11
Separate Cups and Saucers n
Groupes and Figures
Alabaster Vales "
Looking Glafies, in gilt frames, p
Besides India Japan'd Toilet Defies, Chairs, Tables v
nad Quadrille Box:.. PASQUIEK & Co.
No. 91, South Sccond-ftreet. S
December jtiu tw
WILLIAM SHEAFF, :
163, HIGH ST RE ET.
Has rat Saw, Wholesale an» Ritail,
madeira wine, of in. quality.
Old Sherry, Liibon, and Pore Wines,
Cogpee Brindy,
Jamiiea S* its,
Wine bitters and
Claret in cases.
Also far sale,
A few barrels of excellent Beef.
December 7. i•
For Sale,
By George No. 91,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels
and half btrrels •
Dittn Herring and Macltaref.
Smoaked Herring in barreli and kegs
Ditto Salmon, by the dozen or single oire
Dry Codfi/h, from one to fifty kentals
Fine and coarse Salt
Nova-Scotia and French PJafter of Paris, in the "one
and ground, for manure and stucco-work"
DeerrrHer i. 6tf
Imported from London £s* Liverpool,
EARTHEN WARE, ifl crates and hogOieads, well
alTorted
IVi»e Bottks in hampers
Window GUfs of all fi7e*
Two cases of ftationarjr
One cheftef yellow Jefuhs Bark ,
Two cases of Roll Arnotta
A small consignment of Rose Blankets,
Baizes, Broad-cloths, Coatings, Plaini, &c.
Paints of various colors.
Ballet ft It in hbgfheads.
Alfa on hand,
Madeira wine, very old, in pipes, hog&cads ar.i
quarter calks
Holland gin in pipes, firft qualitf
Anchors of different fees
A few trunks of ladies French Ihoes aflorted
Silk nankeen, Bcc.
Likewise an aflortraent of Dutch goads, confiftinjTjf
OfnsberTS, ticklenbergs, bed-ticks, Itripes, checks.
Morlaix linen, platillas, ravens duck, Kritanniu, £ci>
And for sale by the package only by
Thomas & "John Ketland.
Walnut-flreet Wharf.
Nev. ij. eotf
SALTPETRE.
A lirge quantity;of Double-Refined Salt Petre for
file it No. 15, South Third-street.
November 5.
Dancing.
MR. FRANCIS of the New-Theatre, in conjtmAion
with Mr. BYRN, latx Ballet-mister, and principal dan
cer of Covcnt-Garden Theatre, now of the New-Theatrt
—urill openan Acadimy stt Mr. OeWers Hotel, on Tues
day, December ij, where thsy propofr to teach in the
ffioi neiv ant! approved methods, dancing in its various
uleful and ornamental brandies.
Mr. Byrn's recent attention to the dances of London
and Paris will enable him to complete this branch of
education in his scholars iu the moll finiflied style.
Favsrite Scotch reels will also engage their particular
attention.
For farther particulars enquire of Mefirs. FransU
and Byrn, No. 70, north Eighth-street.
* m ? Private tuition as usual.
November 30* \ mwScf
CONSTITUTIONS.
This Day is Published,
And to be Sold by W. WOODHOUSE, No. f.
South Front-ftrcet.
THE
Constitutions of the United States,
ACCORDING TO
The Latest Amendments.
To whick are annexed,
The Declaration of Independence,
AND
The Federal Constitution,
With the Amendments thireto.
This Edition contains the late Constitutions «f New-
HampQiire, Kentucky, and Tenneflee, not ia any for
mer one. Nov. a 6. Jt*
TO BE SOLD,
A LEASE forfmtn years, from the Isth March neat, In tltt
capital and beautiful FARM % called
PROSPEC T-H ILL,
Situated within one quarter of a mile from the Brindywine
Mills, and halt a mile from the borough of Wilmington.
THE dwelling house is built of (lone, two stories high,
genteelv fimfhed, and contains four handsome rooms on
• floor, besides an entry, with capital garrets, and convenient
Celiars. It is generally thought to command the most a
grceable profpeft of the Delaware, from the source of that
tiv« te the Capes. This profpeft ia greatly embellillied by
a full view of a vail body ot meadow, through which the
Chrifliana and Brandywine creeks ire fcen winding in beau
tiful meanders. Near ihe house are a Kitchen, a spacious
Hone liable and hay loft, a barn, a carriage houle, milk
hoafe, &c. and a well of as pure water as any on the conti
nent. The garden contains an acre and quarter of land, a
bounding with fruit, and particularly with peach trees, of
the very best kind, brought from Maryland, and in fall bear,
ing. There is, moreover, on the place, a young, spple
orchard begining to bear, and leveral old trees that produce
abundantly, besides cherry and other ornamental trees, in
great numbers. The farm confifls of near fixcy acres of land,
of good quality, and clear of incumbrances, except taxes,
twenty of whish arenow in exoellcnt clover and timothy,
and ten more will be ready lor sowing next spring. . A re
sidence ot nearly 8 years has convinced the fublcriber that
the situation is remarkably healthy. The great post road
from Philadelphia to the Southward runs within feventv
yards of the house. In a word, the beauties aad conveni
ence of this situation cannot bo 1 numerated in au advcrtile
m?nt, and when examined, will probably command the at
tention of any person who is desirous of living at one of the
most elegant country feats on the contiaent. The purehafer
may enteton the premilts ne*t spring, or perhaps, this fall,
if application be immediately made to Doctor NICHOLAS
WAY, ia Philadelphia, to D>tlor WHARTON, on tlc
psemifes, or, in his absence, to Mr. GEORGE TRUITT, in
Wilmington.
A quantity of excellent Hay, Grain in Ihe ground, forae
Stock, &e. may be had by the purehafer Uthe time of lale.
Nov. 7 cod*New TjheMtre.
On MONDAY EVENING, December 12,
Will be presented, a TRAGEDY, called
The Fair Penitent.
Pcifito, Mr. Warren.
Alurnont, Mr. Fox,
Horatio, Mr. Cooper,
his tecond appearance.)
Lothario, Mr. Moreton.
RofTano, Mr. Darley, jun.
Califta, Mrs. Merry.
(being her fc;cond appearance.)
I.ayinia, Mn. Francis.
Lucilla, Mra. iiarvey.
To which will "be added,
A FARC E, in two acts, called
Who's the Dupe?
Doiiry, Mr. Morris.
Sandford, Mr. WigntU.
■ Granger, Mr. Miretou.
Gradus, Mr. llarwootl.
Servant, Miller Wurrell.
M'ifs Doiley, Mrs. Francis.
Charlotte, Mrs. Harvey.
Box, One Dollar twenty-five cepts. Pit one Dollar.
And Gallery, half a dollar.
i'T Tickets to be h»d at H. &P. Rice's Book-store, 1
JJo. 50 and at the Office adjoining the ,
Theatre. . (
The Boors of the Theatre will open at 5, and the
-Curtain rife precjfely at 6 o'clock.
Places for the Boxes to be taken the Office in the
frtjnr of the theatre, from 10 till 2 o'clock, and from (
lo till 4 days of performance. 1
Ladies and Gentlemen are requefled to fe*d their (
servants to keep places a quarter before 5 nd ,
to order them, as soon as the company are seated, to .
withdraw, as they cannot on any account be permit
ted to remain. 1
No money or tickets to bo returned, nor any 1
pefl'on, on any account whatsoever, admitted behind c
the scenes. r
riV/tr RESPUBLiCA! i
: .
Mrs. Grattan refpe<slfullv informs the fubferiberj ']
to the •
Ladies' Concert, t
That the fir ft will be 011 Thursday the jxnd of a
December, aRd Mrs. Grattan takes the liberty of re- r.
questing the fubftfribers to fend for their tickets any
day after Thursday the 15th, at No 39, N. Sixth "
flreet. h
. Mrs. Grattan begs leave to inform the Ladies and
Gentlemen of the City, that the fubfeription-haok is
at her house, No. 39, North Sixth-ftreef, for the re- 1
ception of those names who wi(h to honor her with
their commands. A fubfeription for eight nights
sixteen dollars, including a Gentleman and Ladies'
fieket, both transferrable. Half
dollars, including one ticket. Single ticket two dol
lars.
December •>. g
"" A Genteel House.
FOR SALE, a new, convenient, three-story HOUSE, •
fltuate in Fifth, near Sprace-ftreet. Pofleffion may be
had in two months, when it will he finilhed in a neat h;
modern style. For terms apply at No. 109, Spruce- cl
ftrcet, or 109, So. Water-street.
December 8. "
R A I S I NIT
— so
A few Calks and Bcxes of Excellent Fresh RAISINS, in
joft received, and for sale by cr
Joseph Anthsny & Co. ra
Also a new 11 1-2 inch CABLE, 120 fathoms long, lit
■ December 5. • $tf ac
Jult Arrived, cc
In the Ihip Dispatch, Captain Morton, from Havre n<
de-Grace, and for sale by an
Isaac Snowden, jun. No. 141, hc
SOUTH SECOND STREBT, P L
An invoice of Gloves of various kinds, Men's r C
"White Silk Hose, Black and White Laces, and a few
pieces of Black Silk.
December i. Sxvl m '
—1... , J —_
Old London particular Madeira Wine, e d
Landing from on board the barque Eagle, Capt. Bates
and for sale by ROBERT ANDREWS,
No. 86, South Wharves. cu
November 29. oodtf
Ten Dollars Reward.
LOST, last evening, a fm»U packet of Fremcii Pa
ti**!, among others, an account tl«e to the Citizen
Mahtjvet, and a power of attorney to the Citizen
Thibeaplt. Whoever has found tha fame, and will ho
leave it with the Primer, or with Citizen Thibeault, No.
»fl. South Second-street, (hall have the above reward.
December 7.
' — tic
Genteel Boarding and Lodging, r<>
• "far Two Gentlemtn, may be had at No. 63, south —
Tliird-ftreet, opposite the Nev* Bank— YVhe.e a few Ri
Gentlemen may be accommodated in the belt maa- >u
Tier with Boarding only.
December 5. ** f"
" W ANTE D. cei
A WOMAN of good character, to undertake the co '
Care of a child, and who would occasionally do other
work in a family. Apply at No. 109, Spruec-ftreet. tin
<;tb December. -j. trp
Horses taken in 7 if
Fsr the Winter Sea/on,
And fed on clover hay at the Subferibers place, 12 " n
miles on the Bristol Road, where good ftaWin- is pro* a,H
vided, and great care will le taken of them ° ma
' William Bell. XC[
Nov. 33. mwfzwmthtf. a . r
Wafliington Lottery7~ ai , d
The 44«h and 4.5 th days' drawing of the Washington
Lottery, No. a, irc rcctived at the office No. a 54, M,r- 77
iet-llreet, where tickets may be examined. io ''
N. B. Information given where tickets in all the other a ' d
lotteries may he pro ured > q Ui
James M'Alpin, Taylor, ' rec '
No. 3, South FourthJlreet, ' ow
RETURNS hs grateful acknowledgments to his 1
Friends and the Public for their liberal encouragement,
«:.d begs leave to folieit a continuance of their favors. ' the
He has on hand an eitt:.Cv<_ a.lortment of the * nob
Mojl Fajhionable GOODS, a ft
And of the best quality, fuital.fe for the fer.fon. ir.fr
At this {bop Gentlemen can be furnifliyd withthe best. r . fr
materials, and have themmaje np in thv. neateil and mod
Faihionable manner, and on the fllortcfl notice. He will CO "
thankfully receive any orders, and pay a prompt and to '
jjon&ual to theta. ccr
N.vaaber 10. " ws tre£
F»r the Gazette cr the United States.
Mr, Fenno,
lied J HAVE by accident seen a Tr«nton paper, In
which is coatained an address of peneral Lawrencc,
* to the militia of Mowmoiith. The excellent and
trulyfederal fcntimenlß of which, have induced me
to tequeft yau will giVe it a place in your paper.—
:e.) It is always of confeqiience (and particularly at this
time) to be able to give so pleafin;i a proof of (hs
attachment of our more particularly
. of the militia, who are properly ftvled the balwark
'' of our nation, to our federal con dilution. It i£
also worthy of remark, that the fenrimentscontained
in general Lawrence's addref*, we have reason to
believe, are congenial with those of the legiflatttre
of Ncw-Jerfey ; shortly after they were delivered
we 'find him chosen by that body as an eleiflpr of
President and Vice-President of the United States.
A SUBSCRIBER. !
Philadelphia, Dec. 8, 1796. j
To the officers and soldiers of the Monmouth bri-
Jjp!ws|4ais gsde. (
Gentlemen and FeUow-Cifiaenr,
l aT 1 have now the 114 '.our to depofrt in ydur hands,' '
the colours of the Monmouth brigage. Keceive 1
ire, them as the symbol of your freedortr and ndepen '
the dence, and as the ptirchafc of much blood and trea- '
Aire. A just A'limate of the one, yvifl induce the
' e right valua of the other, The deposit of co- r
t j JC lours in the hands »f a foldicr, is at all t'ijries a fa- v
sffl cred charge, but more efpeciaHy so jn a goyernment
like 1 hat under which it is our happiness te Kvc.— n
eir Confecra'.e tjiem as the- llandard around whuih you
,!ci will rally in the defence of yotir liberties, civil 1
and religious, and as the standard to which >ou 11
will march in support of order and government, '
n y the 'conttituted authorities, and the conltitulinns of
nd our counuy. In eaufes like these may you be ever "
ready to unfurl tliem—and may they always wave a
in triumph and ; but msy they never wave
~~ in apjirobation of discord, anarchy and fa<fti»fi.-x
---:r» Tliefe are wilhes and lentiraents indeiifely engraven
in my bread ; and under the fame banne'ia, arid lor
tl»f performance thereof on my pact, and for the
accomplilhmenrof whatever will conduct; to your *•
f»me, hanourand prosperity, gentlemeny «s far as
t jj my individual exertions will go, I pledge you my
honour. ELISHA LAWRENCE,
id B. G. Monmouth Brigade. r o
is — ar
e * To this address, the folfowiiig ar.ftv ; et was returned hi
' s by Ihe officers and folJiers of the brigade. jar
| s ' Brigadiersen'ral Eusuj i„
5- , S,R ' la
The 1 fficersand soldiers of the Monmouth bii- 1
gade have the houor to acknoyjedge the favor of
- your addvefs of this date, and the deposit in their
E hands of the colours of the brigade ; they concur ~
111 feHtinient, the deposit of colours in the
at hands of,a soldiers on all occafimn an important u j
e- charge—and that the importance ps tha is j,
greatly augmected ia a government like that in
which.it is our happiness to live—the colours ar<f eri
received as becomes the char»aers of citizen, and r ; c
soldiers—and as it -ill be our duty, as well a 6 our an
5, mtarett, so we trott it will be performed, to conse
crate them as the f.andird around which wv will
rally in the jutt defence of our civil and religious
;. liberties—and m fuppott of otder, the constituted <; n
authorities, and the wholesome conflitutions tifeur w .
country. We unite in Atf desire, that tfuy will W
. w «e "i approbation of discord and fadlion
and their inseparable attendant, anarchy.. Ai d a '
hope js indulged, that the well-earned fame a „d re", in'
putation of the militia of New-Jersey, will never , '
betariitfhed bythe condud of the officers and
lokliers of the Monmouth brigade.
' We congratulate curfelve,,'%, in your appoint- li V(
ment as brigadier-general „f the brigade, ami very "
sincerely do we reciprocate the good wilhescomain- du
}r ? ddrcf3 - a l nd cbetrfully engage to u „i, tf £a
'• our belt etideavers with yours, V 6 advance a«d se
cure the true interests of the brigade.
Moamouth, Oil. 7, 1706. ° '
van
Mr. CLARKE's ABDRESS. " lu
j Gentlemen and Fellow soldiers,
' . lnvilC f d b >' >' c " rr I chee, fully accept the g e,'
U honot ot addrefling j'ou on this o.calW. be,
The character ol a soldier, is, bath importaqt
and dignified Soldiers stand the bulwark of a n a . •«.
t,on—their greavobjeft ever is to defend ih»ir did
country s nglnt.—to a/ehge their cc untrv's wrongs ver
1 r-," d [, t T. tI 7 bren cm ployed by tbe great i trai
, kuier of the Umverfe, tp chaflize the perfidy of mo:
ginlty opprtlling nations. Never can tlitv. f., B fift- and
eutly Willi llic dignity of feldiers, un&eM the the
sword, till the cleared juilice, the mDft ev,de,,t re- fe
ceffity, aiic. ™ unequivocal legitimate authotity w ['
L- conlnire to lfTue the lolemn mani-ue.
r With what caution then fkyuld a soldier draw
. the-fword but When once lifted, v.-illi what {J
trcpidity and firmnefs (hoold he life it ! Gentlemen bo,
if youi country is invaded by a f o ,^ () jiie . |
faction, noun»ied in i tl! bosom, attempt 1o pro- wh<
. ' rate its government, ir s constituted authoriries, u-hi
. ami its laws, to you as soldiers will ii,e apyeal bt in.
n»d t . i. such ,nM 2
•ccuutiy tfirn their eyes-from you thev vvffi IJt W
aid 8 ""t pr ° mp: ar ' d L '
ad. And what fold,er, that feeij tfie pa^ so
glow of love to his country, would hef,i? !c f or -
momem to (land f»rlh in its defence I Dm, fellow.
fold.ers, ).i vain will your country look for Voiiv f, au
a,d Ttf , in the hour of danger, you are found'on
qualified for her defence. Permit me ,herefor e lo t enl
recommend to your atteatiot. as soldiers, the fcl- port
lowing things— r
t. Let your dress and as becomes '
military men-when a soldier pr: -f fllls i liinf£lf OB ,
the held -s his cowry's guardian, he should feel a fion
noble emulation, Ihceld the meaprefs cf _"i
* fordid slovenly attire—.-a deccnt military uniform f anil
mfpires the soldier with confidence, procures him of v
con J A Pr °v P L , m '• a,m at dfßßified foLlietly t »ier
tonJua, and m the day of danger, strikes terror in- / e fn
to his euemy—l am persuaded there is not an offi. Led
cror foldieron th.fieM this day. properly accot J
bu - 15 emu ' ous behave well; ht scorns to prop
it • .•»
Pi -m^A > -4 '•KBhsh
V~ y y*» «.»•
'"'gw
l -\ as *71?' ? -
. tioftlen, ftablc b. jrs, aue frit .oy a , & c
ore in out of place, pri.cipafy from ill behavu*
wish- , IB d loft of cbarafter, whole meant U|;
T ' n K »«* "cite suspicion— at all time,
to the about
'IT u ' 9 - Pe /; ons called Blacklegs, and e- '°'° 0 *
inflt. - ther, proselyted to the passi of
or P nr f«'»g " as a trade, who are in the
iKncy conllant habit of frequenting houlcs open .
tdd.er ed for the express purpose of play, ofwhich
»n of. there are at least 40 in w J ;erc
Pharo Banks are kept, Has.rrf, Rouge *
•, and Nair, &C. are introduced. Of tbefr, five
n~ a ar e kept in the houses of l-.diei of fafhio-v,
thai, who are fa.d to .eceiVfc fif :y pountL .
ce to rout, bffides one eighihof the prufits • ( e
only veil are fWjfcriprion houses ; five have cut
ilfan loraer, particularly attached to them, and
'niitettn admit foreigner*, and every idle
try's anddiflolute character, who are either i„-
clie- trod need or known to belong to the fra.
ternuy of gamblers, wheie a supper and
i, to wines are alway, provided by the propri
t the «ors of the house for the entertainment of
you tntir cuUomcrs
pur .17. Spendthrift., rakes, giddy ynun ». 2 °°
our men, inexperienced and in die pursuit of
re. criminal pleasure, profligate, loole, and diC- •
>art jolutc charters, vitiating themselves and
loiif- i" the daily pradice offering others to
and "temperance, lewdnefs, debauchery, namb
ling and excess citfmatcd at
the 18. ForeigHets, who live chiefly by
just gambling . . 1 '
will '9- Bawdi who keep houses of ill fame
JUn . brothels, and lodging houses for profliiutel 20 m !
•d a . ao - Uofortu'ij ite females of all defcrip.
m 1 tions, who support themselves chiefly 0 r
>ro- bj proflitution * . .
and 2 '- Strangers out of work yvho have °° 1
wandered up to London in search of em
ployment, and without recommendation
generally in consequence offomermfdemean- c.H
our committed in the country, at all times
on above " lDaa
22. Strolling- minftrtls, ballad fibers,
, m . ihowmen, trumpeters, and gypsies
e j. 23. Grubbers, gin-drinkers, difiblute wo- ■*
men, and destitute b:>ys and £i'rls, wander
ing and prowling about in the (Ireers
bye_ places after chips, nails, old mstah, '. **"3
broken glass, paper, tvrine, See. who are '
conltantly on the watch to pilfer when an
opportunity offers „ '
00 „, f\ , 20®3
24. Common beggars and vagrants aflc
mg alms, supposing one to every two llreets 3000 < 1
Total 115,009
90 For S A L E, j
A very Valuable.dilate,
- pALLED TIVITTENH4M, situate in the
township of Upper Derby, and county of Delaware,
7 mile# from Philadelphia, and Half a mile from the
ncv Wefttra rO*J: containing tfo awes of excellent land,
39 45 Ot which are good watered meadow, 90 of prime wood?
land, and the red arable of t-h» firft quality. There are
on the premifes,good two story brick house, with 4 ro.mt
on a floor, and cjUars under tie whole, with a pump-well
of excellent water in front; a large frame barn, ttahl »
and other convenient buildings ; a fmokerhouie and U«n
fpnng-houfe ; two good apple orchards, and one of v'each
-50 CS \ lh f, field ' arc clover, except those immeiiatclr
under tillage, and are so laid cat at toW the . dvanta/c
of water m each of them, whicf. rtiulcr. it peculiarly con
yenient for grazing.
The situation is pleasant and healthy, and from thehU
eultivation of the land, the good neighbourhood, and en. *
vicimty to the city, it it very suitable for a gentleman'.
' country feat. 0
The foregoing is part of the estate of J ato b Harmaa.
deceased, and offered for sale ty
Mordecai I,ewis,,
Oil' 31. law Surviving Eiecutor.
10 F0 R S A L E, 1
A valuable Plantation,
IN Frederick County, Virginia, bounding nearly fcret
miles on the riyer Shenando.di, between Aihby't Gap
and Snicker's f'erty ; 66 miles from Alexandria, and the
like distance from, the Federal City. It contains 107*
acrcs, 600 of which are cleared, the fin.-i y t ica
0 bered ; the whole 1-mieftone oi-River Bottom ; aboundinV
in fine ftrcams and ffrh.gs ; above Ho acres on the bank
of the river may be watefed at pleasure. It is capable
of being divided into Lots of 100 acres, with water in
each, which rendert.it peculiarly convenient for Erazinz
or culture. Its situation for Health or elegant improve
ment is not to be surpassed in any inland country and if
deemed too large fbr one Farm, may be divided into two 1
or three 1 mailer ones, uniting in common advantages.-—
There is now ereftcd «n the Eftatc a' good Merchant-
Mill, with two pair ol (tones (011 a large limestone spring)
that rents far 466 dollars per arm. and en another never
iaihng-fpring a good Saw Mill, with a flutter wheel -
Q there it plenty ol pine Umber in the neighbering moun
tain, and a ltream fufficient for another (Mill with four
I»ir of ltones—thafe are adjacent to or immediately oa
the banks of the river, the navigation whereof is about
O being opened into the Potomak and for more than ,4
lies above the mills. The other improvements on tha
enable of r Ctmmi 9 dious the ioft of which is 1|
" r J°o buC,els j the threlhiog-floor is
Bari wif2 U «S, We Pbnired: mother (double) Log
tZ' Zt f " owd ■■ with thre!
that wiy contain 50a
° -er etdutd o w:7 "f fti,1 S leS ' al; ' d a wa
• i y 3f ou R hs ' running thro' it; at a small
rodmlr S4O
Buildings with trtfe m ° thrce comr nodious Eratt
elofed Garden fin ft? A W '"
) running thro' u - , a 3 llr< '"" U of water
good Quarriet for'luil r 1 Orcliardt ; ftve.al
Out-HTufe wSL d ' ng^ d ' ,me fone; a number of
%s for Mu, 0 f c^ : ' ICr ''- la 5 hfluth . Cooper, and liJj
-4 and valuVej Dili's gr6Etly "
for one t ' lc P-'-iee agreed I
tlieremLtW a.eonfidfWble credit fpr
Farming Utensils' 0 t;att!c, Waggont,
tion for „K, ' \ a - at a reafenable valua
the iubfcribcr \ a may be made to
Philadeli 4 : a n v 1, ' t . c > to Thomas f.tzfimons in
rrnuoelpaia, or ivl.uh.o Plough, Laneaito.
n. I. HOLXER,
iSth Oaoler, i 7 96. ', aw 4
« 5*
Philadelphia,
• •
MONDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 12, i/9 6 -
ELECTION RETURNS.
RtTURu er Votes . ?
Dnß 1 V lO u
PRESIDENT | 1 & ii S
AND ~ m t»
VICE-PitESfDENT ,
iNcw-Hainpftiire/
Maflachufctts,
KhoJe- Iflandj
C'onnefticnt, 9 * S
Vermont, jug| - ,i
New-York,
New-Jersey, • 7 7
l c nfylvania, 1 2 14 13 ,
Delaware, i 3
Maryland, 7 4 4 3 *
Virginia,
•Kcn-neky,
T *nre fee,
North-Carolina,
Scuth-Carolina,
Georgia,
'lota!,
CONGRESS.
At 12 o'clock this day, the Senate in a body, waited
en the President of the United States at his haufe,
when the Vicc-Prefidcnt presented the following j
address in anfnver to his fpeecb to both Houses at the
opening of the fejjton—
WE thank you, ftr, for your faithful and de
tailed cxpofure of the existing situation of our
country; and we fineere!} join in sentiments of
gratitnde to an overtuliiig Providence, for the dif
tinguifUed (hve of public prosperity, and private
Itappftfe-fs, which the people of the United States
fj peculiarly
We are folly sensible of the advantages that have
resulted from the adoption of measures-(which you
have fucccfsfully carried into effect) to preserve
pence, culiivate friendthip, and promote civtliza.
lion, aniongft the India* tribe?, on the wdlern
frontiers f«eli»«s of humanity, and the me ft lr>
ltd political interells, equally encourage the conti
ntuuee of this fyltem.
We observe with pleasure, that the delivery of
the military polls, lately occupied by the Biitifh
forces, within the territory of the -United States,
was made with cordiality, and promptitude, as soon
»s circumdances would admit; and that "the other
provifionsof our treaties with Great-Britain and
Spain, that were objetts sf eventual ..arrangement,
ait sliotit being cairied ißto effect, with entire har
tcicny and good faith.
The unfortunate, but unavoidable difficulties,
that opi/ofed a timefy compliance with the terms
of the Algerine treaty, are much to be lamented :
as they may oecafion a temporary suspension of the
advantages to be derived, from a solid pease with
that powef, and a p«rfe& fecuiitv from its preda
tory warfare ; at the fame time, the lively impref
£ons that affe&rd the puttie mine?, on ttjj rcJtrap
tion of our captive fellow-citizens, afford the molt
laudable incentive to our exertions, to remove the
remaining obflacles.
WeperfefUy coincide with yuu in opinion that
the importance of our commerce demands a naval
force for its pro t eft ion again!! foreign infnlt and
depredation, and our folifitvide to attain that ob
ject will be always proportionate to its magnitude.
The necefiity of accelerating the eiUbiithment
©f certain afeful manufactures, by the intervention
of legislative aid snd protediion, and the encour
agtmcnt due to agiiculture, by the creation of
boards, (cpmpofed of intelligent individuals) to pa- !
tronife this primary pursuit of society, ar« lubjefts
which wilt readily engage our moil ferioui atten
tion.
A national univcrfity rr.ay be converted to the
tnsft uftful ptirpofes—The science of legislation,
being so efferitially dependant on the endowments
of the mind, the public interests multreceiv* effec
tual aid from the general diffufion of knowledge ;
and the United States will affumc .1 more dignified
flation, among the nations of the earth, by the
fuceefiful cultivation ofthe higher branches mi lite
raturf. - il■<3Qi
By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64,
Seuth Seconds. reel.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY/
For railing Sixty Thousand Dollars, tor an /ft of
.the Legi fixture of Pennfylvaaia, palled during the !a!t
session, for bjilding a Stone Bridge over the River
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, in the County of
Berks. DofWi
-1 Prize oF 20.000 Dolum - 20,009
1 do. of 10,000 do. - - 10.003
3 do. of 5.000 do. , - - - 15.000
4 do. of' 2,000 do. - - Boco
20 do. of 1,000 do, - • - ao,oco
39 do. of* s©o do. - • *9<500
80 do. of 200 do. . - . - 16,0ca
200 do. of 100 do. - §0,000
300 do. of 50 do. - • 15 009
1 do* of 500 do. to be paid the posses->
for of the firft drawn no.) ®
5 do* of 3,000 do. to be paid pofleflor* ; '
of the five lafl drawn nos J 1
9,400 do. of 15 do. : - 141.009
10,054 Prizes 300,000
blanks — -
30,000 Tickets at Ten Dollars 300,000
All Prizes fhal. be paid fifteen days after the drawing i*
fiui shed, upon the demand of a pofTeflor of a fortunate
ticket, fubjeft to a deduttion of twenty per cent. The
Drawing will commence as loon as the Tickets are difpof'-d
of, or perhaps sooner. of which public notice will be givca*
Philip Miller, Peter Kerjhner, William IVitman,
Joseph Hie/ler, James Diemer, Thomas Dutul. s,
Jame r May, John Otto, John Keim, Daniel Grass,
Selajlian Miller, Commissioners.
Reading, May ihc 9th, »7gti.
Tickcts in the Canal Lottery, No. », to be had at the
above office, where the earli.ft information of the draw
ing of the Wafftington No. o, and Patterfon Lottery's,
are received, and check books for examination and regif
tcringare kept.
O Sober 7. sawtf
iPaterlon Lottery.
raiGng fix thousand fix hundred and sixty-seven
A. dollars and fifty cents, by a deduction of fifteen per
cehtfrom the prints, and not two blanks to a priaa. viz
I Prize of 5000 dollars is dollars 5000
I 1000 loco
i fbo 5 so
5 200 1010
10 100 1000
99 jo 495®
aoa 1J joco
1000 10 20,000
x Lafl drawn numbers of root) dollars each, 5000
2332 Prizes. . 44i4i0
4018 Blanks. ?
6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars etch, 44,45®
By order of she Directors of the Society for efi rUifh
mg Ufeful Manufactures, the fuperimendauts of the Pat
i erl'on Lottery hive requeftcd the Managers to offer the
foregoing S.heme to the pubHc, and have dire&ed them
to refund the money to thufe persons who have purchafsd
in (he former Lottery, or exchange tit tickets for ticket.
11 this Lottery.
The lottery hasaSually commenced dfav.-ing, and will
i continue until fmiflied. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
! may be fecn at the office ol William Blackburn,
-south Second street, who will give information where tick
ets may be procured. . RE ;
Dated this 17th day of June, 1796.
J. N- GUMMING,
JACOB R. HARDENBERG, > M»n»gei>
JONATHAN RHEA, )
STATE OF THE WHEEL.
1 Priee of 5000 ...
I JCOO " loco
I 500 - - - J°3
5. • aoo * 100®
20 . ico * - acco
90 y® +s°®
165 *? , " - - 4115
The five last drawri tickets, 1000 e..ch, , s oc ®
Being all the valuable prizes, Welides a full proper ■>
tion of the 10 dollars.
As the Lottery is confiderab'y more than one thirit
drawn, the value of the undrawn tickets is great
ly increased, and it is worth the notice of thofa
who hold tickets in th»old ft heme, that they can ex
change rfieir tickets for thole in the above, if they
ly soon, and at a moderate advance coefidering the
now sea! value of an undrawn tickct.
The tickets being nearly all fold, the drawing tn
future will be cftener, and the Lottery soon forifhed.
November it. rows
Washington Canal Lottery,