of the Butte* States, & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1273.] FRIDAT EVENING $ OCTOBER 7, 1796. {VOLUME X.
THE PANTHEON,
And Ricxetts's Amphitheatre,
For Equestrian and Stage performance!, Comer of
Cltefiiut and Sixtli-llreets, will be opened on MON
DAY, Oiflober the icth, with a
Brilliant Display of Scenery,
AND ORNAMENTAL PAINTINGS,
Ahw lights, and a great variety of
SUPERB DECORATIONS.
Mr. Ricketts will endeavor to make the entertain
ments of each evening ss agreeable as pofiible, being re
solved to use his best exertions to render fatitfaftion to
Irs friends and patrons.
The doors will open at 6 o'clock—Performance
commences at 7 —Boxes 7s. 6d.—Pit 31. 9^.
Tickets to be had at th? ticket office of the Pantheon,
' and at CEllers's hotel.
' Evenings of Performance to be Monday, Wednef
dav, Thursday and Saturday.
...
No. 153.
Dijlriß of Pennsylvania, to <w't.
BE it remembered, that on the twenty-fourth day of
September, in the twenty-firft year of the independence
' of the United Sates of America, William Cobbett of
the said diftri& hath deposited in this office the Title of
a Book, the right whereof he claims as proprietor, in
the words following, to wit.
" The Political Censor, or Review of the mod inte
" telling political occurrences relativ* to the United State*
" of America—By Peter Porcupine"—ln conformity to
the Aft of the Cengrefs of the United States, intituled'
" An Aft for the encouragement of learning by securing
the Copies of Map«, Charts and Books to the authors
and proprietors of such Copies, during the times therein
mentioned." SAMUEL CALDWELL, Clerk
Piflri.fl Pennsylvania.
Plans of the city of Philadelphia, j
Including the Northern Liberties and diflrift of
Southwark,
Poblifhed, and fold by
BENJAMIN DAVIES, .
No. 68, High street, - ',
(Price one dollar.) , t
, THIS plan is 26 inches square, and has' beeti en
graved by one of the firft artifls In the city, fiHim a late j
and accurate fprvey. "Pur-chafers are entitled to rvpam l - (
phlet with each plan, giving " some account of the
city, its population, trade, government. &c.
July 19 tu&ftf
The Brig MART, * ]
Lying at Messrs. Willing* and Francis's '
Wharf, burthen zoo UarreU, built in Philadelphia in 1793,
©f live oak and red cedar.—She it well found, and may
be sent to sea at a small exyence. For terms apply to
Gurney S3 5 Smith.
oa. 6. dtf.
For New-York, Newport,
Providence,
The nerjj Sloop EA G L E,
John Earl, maftfr : will £uLi» a-£ew fia* elegant
accommodations for paffengcrs, and will take freight on
moderate terms. Apply to the master on board, or to
Joseph Anthony £9° Co.
O&ober 5. dtS
DISTRICT COURT, \ ff
Pennsylvania DiftriiSl. 5 JJ'
IN pursuance of a writ to me direited, from' the
Honorable Richard Peters, Esquire, Judge of the Dif
triift Court of the United States, in and for the Pennsyl
vania Diftridt, will be exposed o Public Sale at the
Merchant's Coffec-Honfe, in the City of Philadelphia,
on Wednesday the 12th day of O&oberinft. at 14 o'clock
at noon, the SHIP called
The j ose P hus >
\With all and Angular her tackle, appa
rel and as the fame now are,
the said ftiip having been condemned to pay mariners
wages, &e. W.ILLIAM NICHOLS, Marftiah
Office, 4th Oviioher, d
For Boston,
-Jft The Schooner John,
MT - A constant trader. Peter Coffin, master, p
lyin; at Mr. Vanuicm's whirs, will fail in all next week. ,
For Freight or passage apply to the Captain on board or to
Edward Stow, jun. s
Who has received by the above vessel, F
Some excellent Pickled Salmon,
and a few quintals of the q
Very belt kind of Dumb Fifli.
September 30. d 9
FOR LONDON, "
The capital (hip CERES,
o t uon '■ —?or freight or pzffage !i
to DAVY, ROBERTS & Co. or d
"John Vaugban, b
September 10. Front-ftrect.
JC? For Cork, !
The Ship Mary Ann, a
Francis Stuart, master: is a ftreng, good G
{hip, fails fact, and has good accommo &
dations for paflengers. Great part of her cargo being
ready, fhr will fail in 10 days. For freight or paffatre
apply to the Captain on board, at Mr. ShortalPs wharf,
Or to Stuart & Barr.
Sept. 49. dtf No. 100, South Front-street.
For Charter, n
The Danilh Barque Beneventura, 0
Sa " wcl Stub, mailer, I a;
A good vessel, of about two hundred *
tons burthen. Ji'.SSE & ROBERT WALN.
gept. 17. dtf
or Charter,
The Ship Dominici Terry, aj
C'}'* Jacob De Hart,, master .. an excellent
vessel, of about 3000 barrels burthen. 11
Jeff & Robert Wain.
September ai. 4
For Sale,
30 Hoglheads of choice New-England
4. ' Rum >
Landing from the schooner John, at Vanuxem's wharf.—
For terms apply to No. 71, North Water Street, at th:
head of the wharf.
Qft- .v dtf.
The Cargo of the Polacre Independent,
■ pAPTAIN CATHCART, from Alicant and Lifr
V_4 bon, landing at the fubferibers wharf—
28 Pipes of Brandy
18 Bales of Spanilh wool
3 do. of Annifeed
lce 7000 Bushels of best Lilbon Salt
80 Boxes of Lemons
For sale by WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
, f A L S.O,
Seventy Hogsheads of prime JAMAICA SUGARS,
received by the fliip Dominick Terry, Capt. DeHart,
from Kingston.
13. d
of LANDING,
ice From on board the Brig REBECCA, Dominic Davicie,
of Master, at Philip Care's Wharf, and for Sale by the
of Subscriber,
London Particular Madeira WINE,
>e- I" Pipes, Hogiheads and Quarter Calks,
tes There are in the above parcel 10 Hhds. of CHOICE
to OLD WINE, fit for immediate use.
Ed Robert Andrews,
"g Sept. 6. mw&f No. 86, So. Wharves.
: ' n rr> 1
Thomas Ryerfon
"LIAS jufl received, by the fliips Molly and Hamburgh
J- A Packet from Liverpool, and the Light Horse from
Bristol, and is now opening fer sale, at his Acre No.
of 177» Market-ftr««t, an extensive assortment of *
Ironmongery, Cutlery, Hardware
and Saddlery.
The ship Caroline, now on htr passage from Liverpool
to Philadelphia, brings the remainder of his fall impor
tation.
n N. B. At the above store may be had, a few elegant
te Mahogany Cases for Table Furniture; also, a good af
nt" fdVtment of the best kinds of Knives and Forks.
,e d C
Wm. HOLDERNESSE,
No. 76 High Street,
HAS received, by the latest arrivals from Europe and
the Eafl Indies, a well feleflcd assortment of Silk
,' s Mercsry, Linen Drapery and Hnberdafliery Goods; which
he will fell, Wholesale and Retail, on the lowest terms;
y AMONGST WHICH ARE,
Some fine India muslins embroidered with gold and fflver
Superfine Book, Jaconet, and Mulmul ditto '
Do do do do Handkerchiefs
Some extra black tnffeties,lutcftringsand colored Pcrfians
— Bandano Handkerchiefs
Long and (hort Nankeens
» Englilh Mantuas of the firft qualify
Damalk table linen and napkins, very fine
Silk Hosiery, an elegant afTortment
Thead and cotton do
It Umbrella),—green (ilk, oil'd do. and do cloth t
n French cambrics, very fine
Irifli Linans, do. &c. &c. June 14 § ,
F O R SALE. '
PORT WINE, and
HOLLAND GIN, of the firft qualities in Pipes.
ERAUNCES and VAN REED,
Brokers and Commiflion Merchants, No. 63,50. 3d St. '
! e Who discount approved NOTES of hand.
N. B. An APPRENTICE Wanted.
~ September T4. mwf
|» For sale by the fublcribers,
IN PENN-STREFT,
130 quarter Chests frefh Hyson Tea ;J
it,o ditto freili Souchong Tea;
300 Boxes China, containing small tea sett» #f 4% [
l " pieces;
e ' 400 pieces Bandanoes.
Willings Ss 5 Francis. 1
January 30 tt&f c
F O R SAL E,
By N. and J. FRAZIER,
No. 95, S. Front-ftreot,
' Prime Boston Beef, in barrels.
Georgia Cotton.
Carolina Rice and Indigo.
Sherry and Teneriffe Wines, of excellent quality.
Ravens Duck. e
Indio Bandanno's.
Sewing Silks, various Golours.
Coffahs and Gurrahs.
Sspt. 17. tts4w.
Lottery and Broker's Office, F
No. 64, South Second street.
TICKETS m the Canal Lottery, No. 1, for sale a
Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in h
re the late lottery. S
Check Books kept for examination and r gifterine, for
,r the City of Washington, No. 2, and Pattefon Lotteries, ! 1
both of which are now drawing—information where t
tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn 1
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New- ! I
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for 3
examination.
The fubferiber foKcits the application of the public ]
and his friends, who wish to purchase or fell Bank Stock, t
d Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands! :f,
1 S(c. or to obtain money on deposit of property.
e Wm. Blackburn.
r Philadelphia, Augufi 18, 1796. mth h
NOTES LOST. 1
WHEREAS two notes drawn by Benjamin Haflcell a
and George W. Kirkland, dated Boston, the 24th
February, 1796, payable to Joseph May, or order, in 18
months after date, one for One Thoufend Dollars, the
other Fifteen Dollars, were stolen with some other papers t<
> out of a trunk on the Lancaster road. It is requeflfd that I
auy pcrfon to whom .they may be offered for t
d Will give notice thereof to the fubferiber.
GARREXT»COTTRINGER.
S'Pt- 3°- ttstf
Diflolution of Partnership.
•yHE Partnerlbip between ROBERT ANDREWS and !'
DAVID MEREDITH, under the firm of ANDREWS
M Jr REDITH ' diflolved. All pei Tons who are 8
t indebted to, or who have claims against the said house, are
requtfted to apply for ftttleir.cnt to the fubferiber.
ROBERT ANDREWS,
- , c No. 86, So. Wharves.
$tpt.6,i7 9 6. d |f
John Whitefides & Co.
Have for Sale,
Venetian Red,
[■ * Spanilh Brown,
the White Lead, greund m oil:
Shot, No. i, i, 3, 4, 5.
-ondon Porter, in calks apd bottles.
— Green Copperas.
It, Several crates of Queens Ware, in fett-s, with desert
■ f ditto cempleat.
T Blifltred Steel,
©erman ditto.
Sept. it. ' d2w
For Sale,
By J. WARDER, PARKER & Co.
An Invoice of Cordage,
t Confiding of different sizes, from > a inch cables (iov/n
' to rope of 2 inches, of different lengths: Imported in
ir ' the (hip Swift, from Hull, ani? entitled to drawback.
Sept. iy. dtf
NANKEENS,
ne » Of the firjl quality, FOR SALE Bt,
RD. and JAS. POTTER.
For any quantity above Five Thousand Pieces, a !!<•
beral credit will be given. R. & J. P.
_ September 13. T. tf
:e ••. • —- ■■ 1
70,000 Pieces Nankeens,
Of the bejl quality and on reafenable terms >
FOR SALE BY
— Philip Nicklin Iff Co.
August 26. dtf
S Philip Nicklin & Co.
,0 - ... UAFh SOK SALE.
, Souchong -.
Hyson Skin / «t
Young Hyson > FRESH TEAS
10 1 Hyson and \
, r . Imperial ■
Yellow Nankeens ,
nt China Ware, aflbrted in BoJces and Cherts
if- Quicksilver
Bandanrio Handkerchiefs of excellent quality in
chests
London Market MADEIRA WINE
London particular >in pipes, &
New-York Market J quarter "calks
, Teneriffe Wine in pipes and hoglkeads
1? Sugar Candy by the Box
Sail Canvas No. 1 a 8
Lead in Iheets
3 Calks of Cutlery aflbrted
er A few chests of Marichefter Goods, aflorted thick
sets, cords, striped Nankeens, &c.
3 Small packages of black sewing-silks
ns fc Tierces Virginia Snake-root.
Nails aflbrted in calks
july_iß row&f
Wanted to Rent,
A convenient, Iveil furni/Jjed Bed Chamber,
Withagpod fire-place, in an airy and healthy part of
the city. The person whs wants to rent such a chamber,
Would have no objection to board, or breakfaft only, with '
_ the family, occupying the house, as may be moll agreeaßle. '
Apply to the printer.
.September V). taw
£ —
Public Notice is Hereby Given,
!t - r "F"'O the Freemen of the City and County of Phila-
X delphia, and the County of Delaware, that a gene
ral eledlion will be held on Tuefdiy the eleventh day
_ of Odtober next. —The eledlion to be opened between ,
the hours of ten o'clock in the forenoon, and one
o'clock m the afternoon.
When the freemen of the City of Philadelphia, are
to meet at the State-house in the fa<d city, to ele.fl
Six Representatives for said city "in General Affem- t
l * bly,
One Representative for said city in the House of Re
presentatives ef the United States.
Twenty persons for members of the Common Coun- -
cil.
Twelve persons for members of the Seledl Com
mittee.
The Freemen of the City and County of Philadelphia
to eledl
One person for Governor
Two persons for Coroners
One person for County Commifliener
The Freemen of the County <rf Philadelphia, to
eledl
Six Representatives for said County in General As
sembly.
One Representative for said county in the House of "
Representatives of the United States.
The Freemen of the City and County of Philadel- "
phia, and Countyjjf Delaware, to eledl
One Senator for the State
.a The Freemen ot the townfhipof the Northern Li
in berties are to hold their election at the town-house in
Second Street continued, above Coats's Street.
or The Freemen of the townlhips of Germantown,
:s, : Roicborough and Bristol, are to hold their election at
re the Union Srhool House in Germantown.
•n j The Freemen of the townlhips of Oxford, Byberry,
v- j Lower Dublin and Moreland, are to hold their eledlion
or at ththoufeof the late John rfarnfley in Bufsletown, in
1 the tewnlhip of Lower Dublin. 1
j And the F'eemen of the Diftrift ofSouthwark, and
*> , the townlhips of Moyamenfing, Paflyunk, and King
's' ' fefling, are to hold their eledlion at the State-House in
the City of Philadelphia.
The Constables of each Ward, Diftridl, &c. are to "
hold their eledlion, in the different diftridls to choose
their infpedlors for the enfuingyear, and to give their
attendance at the time and refpedlive places.
;; Sept. 26. JOHN BAKER) Sheriff.
:8 " ~
ie *** The Eledtors of Chester county are requested
rs to meet at Hunt Dawning's, in Eaft-Calntownlhip, on
at Friday, the 7th day of Odlober ensuing, to form a
n, ticket for the ensuing eledlion.
September 12, 1796.
"*** The Inhabitants of the county of Chester are
requested to meet at the hpufe of Abraham Marlhall,
in the townfliip of Weft-Bradford, m said county, on r
the 7th day of Odtober next, in order to consult on a r
re general ticket for the ensuing eledion. "
re September 14, 1796.
£
IV A A" T £ D,
An APPRENTICE to the Prirting Business. R
Enquire attbi. Offite. ?
University of Pennsylvania,
OScber S, 1796.
The Medical Le&urcs will commence the firft Monday
ill November. taw^w
India Tamboured Muslins.
:rt A small, handsome ajforiment of Muslins,
viz.
Fine tambo»ired Malda and Santijiorc SrliCiw, tuiDU*
patterns and priccs.
Plain 6-4 Jaconet.
Corded and cross-barred Mu/l'n Shawls.
Ditto ditto 6-4 and <1-4 Dorcas.
5, Mmflin Handkerchiefs, fine and coarse.
Japan Muslins, and
A few pieces extraordinary fine Long Cloths. i
TOU. lAlt BY
irt Thomas Tinge?,
Ko. 111, SouthThird-ftreet.
Sept ia> tutf&f
Sales of India Goods.
The Cargo of the (hip Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cal
cutta and Bengal,
consisting or
"* A Large and general assortment of Bengal and Madras
A COTTON and SILK GOODS.
_ AMONG WHICH ARE
A variety fine worked, and plain Mujlins,
Doreas, EsV. Alio,
A Quantity of Exce'knt Sugar,
In boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER,
For Sale by
- Willings Francis,
No. 11 Penn Street.
June 8 §
TAKE NOTICE"
THE fubferiber intends to make application for a re
newa. of the following eertificate, luppofed to be
loft on the parage to England in April 1794 :
Certificate No 1033.5, dated 15th' November, 1793,
for 1830 dollars and 91 cents —Six per cent, domcllic
debt, on the books of the Trsafury of the United States,
in the name of the Hon. John Trevor.
ROBERT BIRD, at John Warder's,
in Philadelphia, August 30th, 1796. *tu&f6w
& New-England Rum,
In hogfhesds,
Welfti's best Boston Chocolate,
And
HYSON-SKIN TEA, in quarter chests,
FOR SALE, BT
A. MARPLE & ISR.W.MORRIS,
t- No. 60. Dock-street.
Sept. 3,4. co6t.
Great is Truth and must prevail.
JUST PUBLISHED,
- And forfait at No- 41 Chefnut-Jlreet by J. ORMROD,
An Apology for the Bible,
3 f , By R. Watson, d. z>. f. a. s.
r > # Bijhop of Landajfy life.
s h Being a complete refutation of Paine's
Age of Reason,
Aid the only answer to the Second Part.
~ August 30. dtf
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
By W. Young, Mills and Son,
[Price ?s cts. in boards, 62 1-2 neatly bound]
n An Apology for the Bible,
In a fries of Letters,
Addrefleri to Thomas Paine, author of a book entitled
e The Age ef Reason, part' ike fecand, being an in
•vejligation of true and fabulous theology.
' By R. WATSON, D. D. F. 11. S. Lord Bifhcp of
Landaff, and Regius ProfefFor of Divinity
in the Uaiverfity of Cambridge.
"Sept. lis! tu&f6
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
By Mathew Carev, 118, Market-street,
a A DifTertation on Slavery,
WITH A PROPOSAL
For the Gradual Abolition of it
In the State of Virginia.
, By ST. GEORGE TUCKER, Profffor of Law in
the University of H illiam and Mary, and one' "f
the Judges in the General Court irt Virginia.
" Slavery not only violates the Laws of Nature and
f " Civil Society, it also wounds the best forms of govern
" ment: in a Democracy, where all mcir'are equal, slave»
. "ry is contrary to the spirit of the constitution."
[Montrfbuieu.l
Sept. 29- -f . 6 1
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
1 By W. YOUNG, MILLS and Son,
Corner of Second and Chef nut Jireets,
t Price 12 1-2 cents,
The President's -Address
i To the People of the United States,
1 INTUBATING
The resolution he has formed to decline being c«nfidered
1 amorig the number of those out of whom a choice is to
be made, at the ensuing ele&ion of a Prefidcnt of the
1 United States.
20 - ws6 '
THIS DAT PUBLISHED,
r J* ORMROD, No. 41, Chefnut-flreet,
(Price 12 1-2 Cents)
The President's Address
To the- People of the United States,
Announcing his intention of retiring from public life '
1 at the expiration of the present constitutional term of
1 preudency.
September 20. J
Mordecai Lewis
HAS FOR SALE,
NANKEENS, long and fkost.
China, well aflbrtcd.
Quicksilver, ,
Diapert-
Baftas. >
Coffas.
Bandano Handtercbiefi-
Roll Brimllone.
Se P'- 6 * ttScflaj,4
MUCKS. "
Srx per Cent. - - ... - - IJ/jfS z
Thrtc per-Cent. - 10/5 ( fnt.
4} per Cent. - 14f ( off.
jl per Cent. - - Itf+J
Deferred Six per Cent. - - - lifb
BANK United States, - - I9to 2oprct.
v ■ Ptiiiifylvariia, • • - 16 to 17
» ■ North America, - - • - 45 to 46 11
Insurance Camp. North-Anuria, 37 1-4 pdr ccnt. adv. d
— —Pennfylvanii, par to i per cent, ad > 0
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
On London, at 30 days, per £.100 fterl. par. q
a t 60 days, par to 162 I-l
at 90 days, 161 i i 6« 1-1 J
'Amsterdam, 60 days, per guilder, 4i "
90 days, 40 c
Washington Lottery. v
* B
The Twenty-sixth & Twcnty-feventh days' drawing of e
the Wafhingt'on Lottery, No. 2, are received at the office
No. 234, Market-ftrect, where tickets may be examined. \
N. B. Information given where tickets in all the other
lotteries* may be procured. fl
O&ober 7, 1796. df +
Washington Lottery. d
' The and twenty days drawing j|
arc arrived at the office Ne. 147, Chefnut llreet. c
Prizes in the above Ldttery are'exchanged for tickets
warranted undrawn. a
Od. 7. fcn&w3 c
— . . * ■ f
Just Imported, 1
y Tin Plttes in boxes
Sheet and bar Lead c
Shet—all ftzes, patent tnd oommoa f
Copper bottoms and fteets
English shoes and boots in cafcs c
Taunton Ale in cafics of 10 doz. each
Baflcet Salt 'j
Wool Caids
Gold Watches. T
For Sale by r
Simon Walker, \
Oil. J. mwfim . Dock-flreet. c
, 1,
By Authority. I
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery. t<
— I
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 6a, fl
South Seeond-Jlreet. d
SCHEME of ILOTTERY, •,
Tor raising Sixty Thousand Dollars, agrexably to an Aft of
the Legislature of PennfylvaAia, passed during tho last
feflioYi, for building a Stone Bridge o?er the River tl
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, in the County of 1
Bucks. Dollars, a
1 Prize of 20,000 Dollars - *©,00©
* » do. of 10,000 do. - - «o,o 0 o
3 do. of 5,000 do. - - J 5»ooo a
4 do. of 2,000 do. - - BrO© o I
20 do. of 1,000 do. ... *o,©oo t<
39 do * o f s®° do - * • *9 500 n
80 do. of 200 do. - - i6,0®0
s«o do. of 190 do. - • 10,000
300 do. of 5© do. - - 15*00©
1 do< of 500 do.'to be paid the poflef->
for ef the firft drawn no. > 5 00
$ do. of 3,os© do. to be paid poflfeffors )
of the fire last drawn no» J , 5' OCo
$,seo do. of 15 do. : - 141,000 v
» • s
i©v°s4 Prizes 300,c00 .
10,046 Blanks —
30, ©oo Tickets at Ten Dollars 300,000 v
All Prtres (hall be paid fifteen days after the drawing is
£iii(hed, upon the demand of a poffeflor of a fortunate
ticket, fubjeft to a deduction of twenty per cent. The
Drawing will commence as soon as the Tickets are disposed U
of, or perhaps sooner. of which public nctice will v
Philip Miller, Peter Kerjhner, William Witman, g
Joseph H'ujltr, James Diener, Thomas Dundas,
J amir May, John Otto, John Keim, Daniel Craeff, t
iebajlian Miller, Commissioners. 1
Reading, Maythegth, »7j6. £
— <1
Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. a, to be had at the {
above office, where the earliest information of the draw- j
ir.g of the Washington No. a, and Patterfen Lottery's,
are received, and check books for examination and regif- F
teringare kept. r
O(Sober 7. law tf 0
For Sale, ; f
The remarkable fall failing
SCHOONER LIVELY, n
now lying at Hamilton's wharf, built iir 1794 by Mr.
Yard at Kci.fingtan, of live-oak and red-cedar—her di- 1
menfions are 68 feet 3 inches length on deck— 19 feet 6 t
inches breadth, of heam—B feet 4 Indies hold—and car- t
riesbetween 5 and 600 barrels flour.—The Lively being
wellknown here, any further description of her h unne
ceffary—fuffice it to fay, that she is not inferior to any '
veflei of her Cze in any refpedl whatever—For terms ap- v
ply to EDWARD DUNANT, J
No. 149, south Front-street. a
IVho will hav landrd on Wedrefday mor«cig next, from
on board the BrigiatineLlßEßTY,CaptainMUKPHEY, c
at fairi wharf. t
100 Hog/heads prime Hat-anna Molasses.
He has likewise for fair,
A few packages ot CALCUTTA GOODS—Confiding of,
Pungim Cloths, flu in hums, Tickerys, Bafties. Coffaes, i
Barhar, Pullicat and Bandanno Handkerchiefs, Guzenahs,
black Taffaties, Choppa Romalls, Gurrahs, Patna CUuitzes
&c. &c. Also, *
A quantity CHEESE, Spermaceti CAN- I
DLES, and a fctPCairrfs B EEF. f
October 3. 6t. *
No 152.
DiJlriß nf Pennjylvania, to wit :
BE !t remembered, that on the fe ver.teenth .day of Sep -
tember, in tlie twenty- rfc year of the
of the United States of America, William Mitchell, of <
the said diitricS. deposited in tliis office the title of a book, 1
the right whereof he claims as author, in the words sol- ,
lowing, to wit: * I
« A new and complete fyflcm of book-keeping, by en
" improved method of double entry, adapted to retail, do
" mettic and foreign trade ; exhibiting a V ifult of tranf- 1
" aSioiis whit.i usually occur in bufioefs. The whole (
v •' comprised in three sets of books; the last set bemg a copy j
'• of thefecond, according to thofc fyftefus m.ift generally
"in use, is given in order to exhibit, by a comparative (
" view, the advantages of 'he row laid down. To '
'• which is added, a table ef tke duties payable on goods, i
" wares and merchandise imported into tiic. United States <
"of America. The whole in dollars and cents.
" By William Mitchell."
In conformity to the a£l of th« Congress of* the United '
f States, intituled," An act (cr the encouragement of learn- '
ing, by feturing the copies of maps, char.t»and books t« ]
the authors and prdprietors .of such during tie <
times therein mcutiooed." ,
SAMUEL CALDWELL, elk, dift.
Pcnnfylyania. '
N. B The above Book is new publifliei, and may be !
had of tl" Bookfellm Cilaber 5. *^4*4*
0— tl:
ExtrjS of an Address from a candidate for the office
of Eledor of Prefdent and Vite-Prejtdent of the cc
United States, publipsed in the Alexandria paper.
0»e of the charges against Mr. Jeffeifen, to j;,
which ray former address alludes,, is, that at a meet-
ing of Mr. Butr, 'of New-York, a man of confi- n(
. derable talenjs, and one who has been as violent an t j.
oppofer to the present government and its adnaini- p (
ftration as any in America, with several gentlemen j
of this (late equally violent in their politics, at M» g[
Jefferfon's hout'e, in October last, the rash and vio
lent measures brought forward irt the last feffioo of p (
congress, which m<*ft df us then thought, and 1
(till think, would hare led this country into a war jj
with Britain, were planned and approved of by
Mr. Jefferfon ; who, it is said, wrote to the differ- y (
ent southern members, urging them to persevere in g
the line of condud there agreed. In proof oi this, ~j
r it is also said, a letter of hi 3 will bi shown: and
should these things be made appear, I cannot hefi- ti
*ate to declare, that I will not vote for him. w
Wjth refpeft t« Mr. Adams, whose conduct ha 3 ar
(hewn that he is a friend to the present government, b:
> it has been the policy of those unfriendly to it to
charge him with ant I republican principles, and an f e
attachment to monarchy ; and have qHoted a book
called Adams's Defence, to prove that he poffeßes f e
such sentiments. 1 have read that book with at- |„
tention, and find nothing in it to juftify that charge, ki
It bieathes, throughout the whole, as far as I am
capable of judging, the purcft lepublican princt- cc
pies. " ei
But greatly to be lamented, and to t-he diigrace d
of this country, it is said two paities are formed in ao
it, one in favour of the French, and the other the' va
British. I deteß them both, and think it may be
well feared, that with these party principles iu our f u
rulers, we may became a prey to one oifcthe other. _
We are told, that Mr. Ames, when he was in this p,
country, said, that the people of New-England te
looked on Mr. Adams as a man attached t* the t j,
British party, and that in his opinion they would
vote for Mr. Henry as President in preference to
Mr. Ames and the people there know
Mr. Adams better than we do ; and if he made
• such a declaration, 1 (hould think it contlufive evi
dence. My wish is, that we may fix upcD such d<
chara&ers as will give their whole attention to the «Ji
interest of their own country, leaving foreign na
j tion6 to a& for thcmfelvls in the fame manner, if —
r they chufe ta do so.—And it is for this reason that
f Ido at present feel disposed to vote for Mr. Henry
and Mr. Pinekney, as President and Vice Presi
dent. If these gentlemen should not be candidates,
and either Mr. Jefferfoa or Mr. Adams mud be
President, it would become the duty of your Elcc- ta
tors to vote for the one*who, from,the best infor- ~
mation, may be least exceptionable. G
LEVEN POWELL.
September 27, 1796.
CHARLESTON, 16. at
Died an Tuesday morning, of a painful illness,
which had continued several weeks, Mrs, Hannah
Sproat Keith, the amiable confott of the n».-erend
doAor Keith, of this city, and daughter of the [5
late reveiend do&or James Sproat, of Philadelphia, v "
who, with a great part of his family, fell vidlims k.
to the yellow fever in the jear 1793. /«
j This truly excellent lady, in addition to a good P'
i underftar.ding aod the moral and social virtues
• which adorned her character, was eminentljftdiftin- "
, gui(hed by her genuine and vital piety.
, Long had the felt the force of that great truth, a
' to glorify God is the most desirable end of human f£
life. This principle hath so fully taken posses
sion of her heart, that for several of her last yeais,
she appeared to a& continually under its governing
e influence': and while (he exemplified true religion
' is its excellency and importance, in her own tem
■' per and conduct, she did not fail to to improve eve
ry favourable opportunity for recommending it to
others, .in a kind, engaging manner, by her con-
verfation ; the influence of which, there is jull rea
son to believe, will be felt by many, and especially
by the younger part of her friends, through the re
mainder of their lives.
In these pious a&s of friendship (lie found de
- lightful employment while on earth ; but the knew
5 that "to depart and be with Christ, was far bet
- ter."
Her remains, accompanied by a very numerous
y train of refpeftable and weeping friends, weie con
- veyed on Wedr.efday to the Independent church,
in Archdale street, aVid depafited in the cemetery ,
n adjoining to that place of. worfltip ; on which oc- /
" cafion, the reverend Richard Fuiman, of the Bap
till church, officiated. ?'
. _ . at
AMSTERDAM, July 5. fe
f, Some members of the national affeir.bly having c<
s, in one of the late fittings, attributed the desertion P'
s ' of the Batavian troops to their being placed in the al
firft line j and this assertion being denied by other as
I- members, as well as the comraitte of union for as. 1
fairs en land— . w
"Head-quarters, Utrecht, »8 Prairial (i6thjune) c<
" fourth year of ihe Fren«h republic, h;
" one and indivisible. w
i " Citizens, , tJ
:e " I read in the public papers, the ridiculous de tl
,f claration of fomedeputies refpetting the motives for ci
c, desertion in the Batavian troops, ascribing it ti»
lheir being placed in tlve fiift line, when they (hould '
n be in the second, &c. q
" When the Batavien convention placed under
f- my command the army of the republic, it imposed
le on me no conditions about placieg it in the firrt or o!
y second line ; and this mark of its extreme confi-
y t dence has impressed me with gratitude. In return a
■ 0 for that confidence, and for yosra also, citizens I
s, am eager to inform you, tliat the delcrtion has 'no
:s other source than the scarcity of provisions and neb
ceflai ies—fo scanty and dear, that they who are paid tl
;d in moneycaraat procure them in their canton, ci
!- menu. To feed your foldicrs, it the true means "of tl
e preventing desertion ; and you need look for Do t<
other. t j
t "It mud a!fo be observed, that your regiments d
did not make war to support your revolution ; and V
ie possibly there may be individuals amougft them p
who do not like it: far, therefore, from blaming ci
■ thsir emigration, lam cx> cdiug!/ to^fir>d
r none rem inijut the true patriots, whose ardor and
,i coinage can alone support it.
" Would it not be equally extravagant and tm
politic on my part, to place behind me in the second
t0 line troops, in whom I can have no confidence ? <
:t " And should the enemy appear before me, would it <
f'" not be putting myfelf between two fires, in cafe
a . n they (houlf) have an understanding with the fuf
individuals that may be amongst your troops?
en 1 repeat it—this emigration is, perhaps salutary ;
?• and 1 would rather give battle with a handful of J
10 * brave men, than with a large army composed of (
poltroons and counter-revolutioni.ls.
1 <1 your troops and they will be in good con- r
,ar dition ; pay them well, and you will retain the
ky brave ; but as to the scoundrels or cowards, I tell j
cr you once more, you should not interrupt them.
Such is my opinion, which I pray you to commu
's» uicate to the national assembly, that it may nat be
diverted from more serious considerations —Such is
the answer 1 \}'D'jld give to those deputies who
would place in the second line those brave Balavi
-183 ans, who, true to their colours, desire only to com
bat in the cause of liberty, and rival the gb'y of
10 the Frensh, who have all along so gallantly de
an fended it.
ok .« Xhe committee of union tnuft have already
s een by the nature of my dispositions that 1 know
"• how to do juftite to the Batavian soldiers, and
! c> know how to estimate military talents.
" For a manth, lieutenant-general Dumoreeau
ci * commanded the three divisions of the line ; and for
eight days lieutenant-genemj Daendals has fuc
cc cteded him. At this moment, three battalions
,n , aod four Bataviao squadrons are moving to join the
he vanguard of the French, Rationed between Ntme
be guen and DuiTeldorf, to cover he lafV place, and.
ur support the left army of the Sambre and the Metife
'[• —I wi(h them to partake the glory which the
118 French burn to acquire anew. I wish them to fra
nc* ternize and maintain that noble emulation, of which
the fublimeft end is—liberty.
M (Signed) " BEURNONVILLE,
to ii The general in chief of the combined French
IW " and Batavian atmies of the north."
de
'i- This letter being read in the assembly, the prefi
ch dent proposed that it should be printed, and the
he discussion adjourned, which was agreed to.
ii
if . 1 1111 1
" Philadelphia,
FRIDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 7 1796'
< ■
" 8 ' MarXiid, by the R«v. Mr. Abercrombie, on Tburf
be day evening, September 30th, IW. David Evans, jun.
Eta Mifs Mart Caret, both of this city.
,r - Dibd, last evening, Matter Jobs Wilkinson, son of
General Wilkinfon.
& A Stated Meeting of the PHILOSOPHICAL
SOCIETY will be held at thtir Hall This Evening
at six o'clock. t
ah Mr. Fenno, 1
nd FACT, considered as a very serious objaAion to the
Jj e re-ele3ion of Mr. Swanwick by every confident repub
. lican, was slated in yoor paper of Wednesday—his ,
' voting direaiy contrary Mr. Muhlenberg, when he •
tns kad acknowledged that ti, of .Mr. ■ M*il r »hr S bad !
ftveJifjt country. —In the Aurora of-this morning Mr. S.
od pnbliflies the following vindication of himfelf : t
i eg " to the story about what Mr. Swanwick should or 1
" not have, said to Mr. Muhlxmiierg, it is too .
" contemptible for notice."
Thi) is a very decent and*refpe<2lful mode of refuting 1
h, a chargc which proves the party to poflefs no political 1
an sentiments whatever ! C. ]
ef- i
BY THIS DAY'S MAIL. i
8 — i
03 PORTSMOUTH, (n. b.) Sept. % 9 .
® FE BE RA LREPRESEN7AT IFE St '
t0 The whola number of votes for Federal Reprefenta- I
tives, returnd to the Secretary's office, were fix thousand
four hundred and eighteen, and are as follows.
'3-
Uy 3 2 10 making a choice.
- c . Jeremiah Smith, . 5822 ")
Abiel Fofler, j6 6 7 i are chosen.
William Gordon, 3468 3
ie- Jonathan Freeman, 2x06 }
:w Peleg Sprague, 1219 j 1D nomination.
:t-
NE\> r -"iORK, OtSober 6.
>us —
'0- Latest Foreign Intelligence. J
iv 'lie Press to aunounce the arrival late j
>C- W , e¥en . ip S. atthe Hook » of the ship Hope, Capt.
Haley, in 41 days from London, with late and im- ]
portantnews—ltalian war doling—Auftrianßhirre '
atmy. flown i,,tt, Bohe®ia~i i,ooo Auftrians kil- ,
-cd and taker. ! — Peace at hand. The ship did not
n g conlc U I J I 3 '* evening, but the Capt. and 1 Mr. J, As-
OR pinwall merchant, a pfeffenger, camc up in the boat
about 9 o clock, and Mr. Afpinwall was so polite J
, ei asto favour us with » The Express," of Augult ,
Is, and " the Star," of August 22—From whiA j ,
,wc haficn to disclose such scenes as are not yet re- |
lC j corded in the Ani.ala of Wars ! By this ship we '
have received regular files to Aug. 22, from whitih i<
we (hall lose no lime in extraflipg the other impor- ;
tant official details we have not time nor room ;
e- this day to insert. The Ellis, papt. Ha.vey, fail- |
or ed 3 weeks before the Hope. [Ar^us.]
lid From the Express Evening Chronicle, of Augujl 18. '
COMPLETE RUIN OF THE AUSTRIAN 1
lcr ARMY IN ITALY ! .
ed The following 1, translated from the Moniteur i
or ot the 14th inft.
'si- In the fitting of the council of eoo, Aug- is I
w * fccretary read the following raefftge:
I Citizens Dircftort,
no The detail, that the directory transmitted to you '
e- by their of Aug. 12, on the operationi of «
id the army of Italy, W ere only the prelude to fuc-V
of th« more . br,l " an '- . The commander in chief of ,
of hat army has transmitted to the directory the his- i
ory of five memorable days, which affurc for ever
. \ LC % one arms in those countries. I n five i «
nd Wn'rJr t! ,t in Italy ! Gen. ' ;
/urmferhas 'oft lj,coo tnen, who have been m>de 1
em pnfoners 6000 have been killed, and 70 picx. ofl
■g jcainoa have fallen into cur ha„d,, togethrt with 'J
v
] l2owaggoßS. The rtfl <.f his army i» dispersed.
Lai. Lp ux, Prcfideut.
By the Executive Directory,
Lagarde, Secretary,
j On the proportion of Paitoret, the Council de.
? creed, " that the army of Italy has not ccafed to
t deserve well of their country."
LONDON, Monday Aug. 22.
> On Saturday the Paris papers of. the 15th and
' i6rh instant, were received after our paper was at
1 pref* They contain the official accounts of the
c late successes of the French in Italy, of which we
had before only the fubltance in an official meflagc
fen by the directory to the council of five-hundre 1.
They contain besides, some fiffi-ial details refpei. 1 -
ting the operations ol the array of the Sambre and •
iffeufe.
This morning we received the Paris Journals of
the 17th, 18th and 19th in ft. They contain a It-t
---" ter from General Buorfaparte, which our readers
5 will fiad in its proper phce* giving an account of
the raising of the siege of Pefchiera, and the re
capture of Verona by the French troops
to which the Auftrians made a last ineffectual ef
fort to retrieve their,affairs. The wretched remains
of the Imperial troops, have taken refuge in Ty
rol. The Paris Journals also contain some official
letters ftom the army of the Sambre and Meufe,
I they arc of dates anterior to those which we
■ have given in the preceding uolumns from the Pa.
ri» papers Which reached uj 011 Saturday, and affyrd
only details of operations, the result of which is al
ready known : .we therefore pultpone until to-mor
row, these and some other articles of lef? impor
tance, that we may reserve room for the contents
®f the
j HAMBURGH MAIL,
Which arrived this morning—The accounts which
it brings rcfpc&ing the operations-os the war is
Germany, are. not of a later date than those from
the French papers. They contain, however, forr.e
' important particulars not before known. The ac
counts from Italy are only details of the fliort
lived advantages which general Wurmfer had gain
-1 ed before the tide of victory had again turned in
favbur of the French, and enabled them to gain
those successes which have been detailed at inch,
length by Buonaparte in his dispatches to the di
rectory. These we lhall lay before our readers to
morrow.
! The political state of Germany seems fact halting
to that crisis which we'have more than once called
to the attention of our readefs. The little states
and free cities are now only talked of as make
weights in the general adjultmeut of the greater
interest ; rtrd it is n»t impoffibL*, will be coniidered
"as divisible spoil, and treated like wretched Poland,
j —But all this i 3 perhaps as neceflary as the war it«
felf was to prevent thefpread of revolutionary prin
ciples, to maintain regular government, and to se
cure individual property !
. We (hall offer no further comment on the con
tents of the mail, but lay the principal articles which
have reached us before our readers. They are a®
follow—
e FRANKFORT, August.6.
Well informed persons pofuively state that ne
• gociations far an armistice are on foot. Accord
j '"8 t0 'hem the fort relics of Mentz and Ehren
breitftein ate to be abandoned to the French ; and
the republican troops arc to retreat to a certain
r line of demarkation, to the end, that they may
3 not interrupt the operations of the congress, which
is to meet at Hair.au. „ This congress is to be coo*
! vencd by the emperor, jointly with the French re
public. All the powers which have taken a part
in the coalition are to fend thither deputies ; and
after the treaty between the two furrper powers is
concluded, the difference between the others are
be arranged, and the lalt hand put to a general
peace.
Among the effe&s lately seized by' the French
between Wurtzbourg and Oemunden, was the c—
i quipage of the imperial envoy, count de Shlick ;
together with all the public and piivate plate bc
longing to the bishopric and bishop of Liege, as
well as the piate of fever ill of the rich abbeys of
thi Netherlands.
"I he king of France-wag on his way to seek a
refuge at Dresden; but he was met at Amberg by
a courier, who announctd to him that circum
itances required him to take another routes His
mafelty in consequence formed the resolution to re
pair to Prague, to proceed from thence to Ruilia. '
1 he ele£tor of 1 reves is at Dresden, whither it is
e said the eleflor of' Bavaria is also to repair.
Phiiipfbourg is violently cannonaded ; and.Man
heira has been summoned within these few days.
1 he sudden interruption of ail £orrefpondence with
the lattej place seems to confirm this-iatelligencc.
. • Attgufl 9.
Our city not having paid the contributions that
were demanded, within the time fixed for it 18
= j holtages we.e last night taken up and sent off. The
: whole number of hostages carried'off from ei
-1 1 ty amounts now to twenty-five.
- j A French corps of 8000 men, under, general
c Hatry, has taken its position near RufiVhheim, to
1 compleat the surrounding of Mentz. On the 7th
a heavy cannonade was heard near-that fortrefs. It
I'® faid,that the. French have made thcrak-lves ma
• iters of Gultavfburg, ok the point of the Mavn
Since the s th the fortrefs of Philip-W i s 'fur.
rounded by the French.
Last week a greSt quantity of carpenter's and '
bricklayer s tools were put in requisition, to be used
in blowing up the fortrefs of Konigflein. Every •
r thing is now ready to effect this ; the mures are dtijr
and the blowing up of that fortrefs will take plac!
, this week, of which the inhabitants of Koningttein
and its tieighbourhoodhavg received noiice.
■1 Ti * fMe , ot our -#isnow extremely critical.
The French Commilary-Ordonnator, Dubretin,
t ( threatens tp take the molt yblent meagre, if the
y contributions arc not fiiortly paid. Last night fe- -
t veral houses were lurched, the inhabitants of whicK
- j were susp cited not to have delivered up their arms.
, : All mechanics have been ordered ,0 give in an ex
' I 4ft of the number of their journeymen
• . and male fcrva»:». I, thoU ght that the French,
ft t n - pr T' cd to v: ° lent meafu '«. mean to
. e * uceroi " g tlie numbtr ° f ma!ea 7 U C K S.
Srx per Cent. - - .... - i*Js~\ ■
Thrte per Cent. ------ - io/j( fnt.
4} per Cent. - -- -- -- -- 14/ f off.
5i per Cent. - - l(fyJ
Deferred Six per Cent. - - 13/6
.- BANK United States, - - 19 to 10 pr ct.
Ptnnfylvania, - ■ - a6to ly
- • North America, - - - - 45 to 46
Insurance Camp. North-America, 37 1-apdr ecnt. adv.
—Pennsylvania, par to a per cent. ad>
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
On London, at 30 days, per £.100 fterl. par.
7 at 60 days, par to 162 I-X
at 90 days, 161 a i 6» i-l
'Amsterdam, 60 days, per guilder, 4i
90 days, 40
Washington Lottery.
The Twenty-sixth & Twcnty-feventh days' drawing of
the Wafhiwgton Lottery, No. 2, are received at the office
No. 234, Market-ftrect, where tickets may be examined.
N. B. Information given where tickets in all the other
lotteries* rfiay be procured.
O&ober 7, 1796. df
Washington Lottery.
.' The twenty-iixth and twenty-fe-venth days drawing
are arrived at the office Ne. 147, Chefnut itreet.
Prizes in the above Ldttery are'exchanged for tickets
v.-arranted undrawn.
Od. 7. fcn&w3
■ » ■ 1 ■
Just Imported,
* Tin Plfctes in boxes
Sheet and bar Lead
Sh»t—all sizes, patent Ind common
Copper bottoms and fleets
Englifti shoes and boots in cafcs
Taunton Ale in casks of 10 doz. each
Bafleet Salt
Wool Ca*ds
<»old Watches.
For Sale by
Simon Walker, .
OA. 7. mwfim • Dock-flreet.
By Authority.
t -
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery^
' Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64.
South Second-Jlrcct.
SCHEME of ILOTTERY,
Tor railing Sixty Thousand Dollars, agreeably to an A& of
the Legjflature of Pennfylvaaia, passed during the last
feflioti, for bailding a Stoae Bridge o?er the River
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading) in the County'of
Bucks. Dollars.
1 Prize of 20,000 Dollars - ae,oo©
.> » do. of jio.ooo do. - - io,o c o
3 do. of 5,000 do. - - 1 5«oo»
4 do. of 2,000 do. - - BrO© o
#0 do. of 1,000 do. - «0,000
39 do. of s©o do. - - *9.500
80 do. of 200 do. - • 16,000
seo do. of ioo do. - • to,ooo
300 do. of 50 do. - - 15,000
1 do< of 500 do. 'to be paid the posses- )
for ©f the firlt drawn no. > 5 00
5 do. of 3,os© do. to be paid poflfeffors )
of the fire last drawn nos J 1 5' 0C0
$,s©o do. of 15 do. : - 141,000 \
■ <
10,054 Prizes 3©o,c©o
10,046 Blanks — j"
30, *00 Tickets at Ten Dollars 300,000
All Prises (hall be paid fifteen days after the drawing is
'Jhiifhed, upon the demand of a poffeflor of a fortunate
ticket, fubjeft to a deduction of twenty per cent. The
Drawing will commence as soon as the Tickets are disposed l
of, or perhaps sooner. of which public notice will
Philip Miller, Peter Kerjhner, William lVUman> \
Jofiph Hitjler, James Diemer, Thomas Dun das,
Jamer May, John Otto, John Keim, Daniel Craeff } t
Sebajlian Miller, Commissioners. 1
Reading, May the 9th, 1796. I
— i
Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. a, to be had at tke {
above office, where the earlicft information of die draw- j
ipg of the Washington No. a, and Patterfon Lottery's,
are received, and check books for examination and regif- I
tering are kept. 1
OAober 7. aaw tf t
For Sale, ; 1
The remarkable fad failing
SCHOONER LIVELY, 1
now lying at Hamilton's wharf, built iir 1794 by Mr.
Yard at Kei.fingtan, of live-oak and red-cedar—her di- 1
mentions arc 68 feet 3 inches length on deck— 19 feet 6 \
inches breadth, of feet 4 indies hold—and car- j
rlesbctwccn 5 and 600 barrels flour.—The Lively being
wellknown here, any further description of her b nnne
ceffary—fufficeit to fay, that file is not inferior to any '
vcffei of her size in any refpedt whatever—For terms ap- '
ply to EDWARD DUNANT, j
No. 149, south Front-street.
IVho will hav landed on Wedrefday roormng next, from
on board the BngantineLIBERTY,CaptainMURPHEY, '
at fairi wharf. '
jOO Hog/heads prime Hat-anna Molajfes.
He has likewise for lair,
A few packages oi CALCUTTA GOODS—Confiding of,
Pungim Cloths, Humhums, Tickerys, Baftaes, CofTaes, j
Barhar, Pullicat and Bandanno Handkerchiefs, Guzenahs,
black Taflfalics, Choppa Romalls, Gurrahs, Pacna CiluKtes
&c. &c. Also, '
A quantity CHEESE, Spermaceti CAN- 1
DLES, and a fe?P®arrel» BEEF.
October 3. 6t. *
No 152.
D'tJlriH nf Pennjylvania, to wit :
BE It remembered, that on the fcver.teenth .day of Sep
tember, in tlie twenty- rfc year of the indcpsßdence
cf the United States of America, William Mitchell, of
the said didricS. deposited in this office the title of a book,
the right whereof he'claims as author, in the words fol
lowing, to wit:
" A new and complete fyftcm of book-keeping, by en
" improved method of double entry, adapted to retail, do
" raeftic and foreign trade j exhibiting a varied- of tranf
" aSions whit.i usually occur in business. The whole
v " comprised in three sets of books; the lad set being a copy
'• of thefecond, according to thofc fyftefus matt generally
" in use, is given in order to exhibit, by a comparative
" view, the sdvantagesof 'he row laid down. To
'• which is added, a table of tke duties payable on goods,
" wares and merchandise imported into the, United States
" of America. -The whole in dollars and cents.
" Ey William Mitchell."'
In conformity to die act of th« Congress of* the United
0 States, intituled," An act Irr tie encouragement of learn
ing, by securing the copies of maps, char.t* and books te
the authors and prdprietors .of Aich espies, during tie
times therein mentioned." ,
SAMUEL CALDWELL, clk.difl.
Pcnnfylvania
N. B The above Book is new publifliei, and may be
had ef tl:e Boekfellm Cflober j. *juW4%v
ExtraS of an Address from a candidate for the office n
of Eledor of Pre/idcnt and Vice-Pr-ejident of the c
United States, published in the Alexandria paper.
0»e of the charges against Mr. JefFeifsn, to ;;
which my former address alludes, is, that at a meet-
ing of Mr. Butr, 'of New-York, a man of confi- „
, detable talenjs, and one who has been as violent an t |
oppofer to the present government and its admini- p
ftration as any in America, with several gentlemen j
of this (late equally violent in their politics, at M» a
Jefferfon's hout'e, in October last, the rath and vio- j,
lent measures brought forward irt the lait feffioo of p
congress, which nvft df us th*n thought, and 1
(till think, would have led this country into a war j
with Britain, were planned and approved of by
Mr. Jefferfon ; who, it is said, wrote to the differ- y
cnt southern members, urging them to persevere in g
the line of coodud there agreed. In proof oi this, „
it is also said, a letter of hi 3 will bi (hown: and j
(hould these things be made appear, I cannot hefi- t ]
*ate to declare, that I will not vote for him. w
Wjth refpeS t« Mr. Adams, whose conduct ha 3 a
(hewn that he is a friend to the present government, j,
it has bean the policy of those unfriendly to it to t ]
charge him with auti republican principles, and an f,
attachment to monarchy ; and have qHoted a book
called Adams's Defence, to prove that he poffefifes f (
such sentiments. 1 have read that book with at- |,
tention, and find nothing in it to jufttfy that charge. k
It bteathes, throughout the whole, as far as I am
capable of judging, the purest lepublican princt- c ,
pies. " £
But greatly to be lamented, and to t-he diigrace CJ
of this country, it is said two panics are formed in a
it, one in favour of the French, and the other the' vi
Britifli. I detest them both, and think it may be p
well feared, that with these party principles in our f t
rulers, we may become a prey to one o»the other. _
We are told, that Mr. Ames, when he wa9 in this p
country, said, that the people of New-England t <
looked on Mr. Adams as a man attached to the t j
British pprty, and that in his opinion they would
vote for Mr. Henry as President in prefeieuce to
Mr. Ames and the people there know
Mr. Adams better than we do ; and if he made
such a declaration, 1 (hould think it contlufive evi
dence. My wi(h is, that we may fix upcD such di
characters as will give their whole attention to the d
interest of their own country, leaving foreign na
tions to a& for themfelvls in the fame manner, if -
they chufe to do so.—And it is for this reason that
1 do at present feel disposed to vote for Mr. Henry
aad Mr. Pinekney, as President and Vice Prefi
| dent. If these geßtlemen (ho.uld not be candidates,
[ and either Mr. Jefferfoa or Mr. Adams mud be &
, President, it would become the duty of your Elcc- t<
tors to vote for the one*who, from.the best in for- "
matioß, may be least exceptionable. G
LEVEN POWELL.
September 27, 1796.
CHARLESTON, 16. . ai
Died on Tuesday morning, of a painful illoefs,
1 which had continued several weeks, Mrs. Hannah
Sproat Keith, the amiable confott of the r<».-erend
do£tor Keith, of this city, and daughter of the f.'
late revei end doctor James Sproat, of Philadelphia, v '
1 who, with a great part of his family, fell vidtims J,
to the yellow fever in the jear 1793. /«
This truly excellent lady, in addition to a good P
undemanding aad the moral and social virtues
which adorned her character, was cminentljftpliftin- "
, guifhed by her genuine and vital piety.
Long had (he felt the force of that great truth, a
to glorify God is the most desirable end of human f!
life. This principle had* so fully taken poflef
fion of her heart, that for several of her last yeais,
(he appeared to aft continually under its governing
; influence": aßd while (he exemplified true religion
is its excellency and importance, in her own tem-
I per and conduct, (he did not fail to to improve eve
ry favourable opportunity for recommending it to
others, -in a kind, engaging manner, by her con- J'
verfation ; the influence of which, there is jult rea
son to believe, will be felt by many, and especially
by the younger part or her friends, through the re
mainder of their lives.
In these pious a6ts of friendftiip (he found de
lightful employment while on earth ; but the knew
that "to depart and be with Christ, was far bet
ter."
Her remains, accompanied by a very numerous
train of refpedtable and weeping friends, weie con
veyed on Wednesday to the Independent church,
in Archdale street, aVid depafited in the cemeteiv 1
adjoining to that place of worfliip ; on which oc- 1
cafion, the reverend Richard Fuiman, of the Bap
tilt church, officiated. P
_ a
AMSTERDAM, July 5. 1<
Some members of the national aflcir.bly having e
, in one of the late fittings, attributed the defertiou P
• of the Batavian troops to their being placed in the a
firft line ; and this aflertion being denied by other a
- members, as well as the comraitte of union for as. 1
fairs on land— . v
" Head quarters, Utrecht, 18 Prairial (i6thjune) c
«'fourth year of the Fren«h republic, h
" one and indivisible. v
" Citizens, ,
e " I read in the public papers, the ridiculous de ti
f claration of fomedeputies refpetting the motives for c
, defertiou in the Batavian troops, ascribing it to
• their being placed in tlve firft line, when they (hould
3 be in the feeond, &c. q
" When the Batavian convention placed under
- my command the army of the republic, it imposed
e on me no conditions about placing it in the firft or o
y fecoid liue ; and this mark of its extreme coufi
£ dence has imprefled me with gratitude. In return a
a for that confidence, and for yours also, citizens I
1, am eager to inform you, that the delcrtion has 'no
5 other source than the scarcity of provisions and neb
ceflaries—fo feasty anddear, that they wha are paid t
d in money, cannat procure them in their canton- c
. menu. To feed your soldiers, is the true means "of t
0 preventing desertion ; and you need look for Do t
e other. t
" It mud also be ob(erved, that your regiments d
did not make war to support your revolution ; and \
e possibly there may be individuals amougft thera p
who do not like it: far, therefore, from blaming c
thsir emigration, I afn ex> cdiogly plejfcd to find
none rem in-but the true patriots, whose ardor and
coinage can alone support it.
* '• Would it not be equally extravagant and im
politic on my part, to place behind me in the feconci
0 line troops, in whom I can have no confidence ? c
;■ And (hould the enemy appear before me, would it c
'* not be putting myfeif between two lires, in Caie
n they (hoald have an understanding with t!ie fuf
'* peiied individuals that may be amongst your troops?
n 1 repeat it—this emigration is, perhaps, salutary ;
* and 1 would rather give battle with a handtul of j
brave men, than with a large army ccmpofed of
poltroons and counter-revolutionists.
1 <> p eet J your troops and they will be in good con- r
lr dition j pay them well, and you will retain the
Y brave ; but as to the scoundrels or cowards, I tell j
r you once more, you (hould not interrupt them.
" Such is my opinion, which I pray you to commu
- 3» uicate to the national aflembly, that it may nst be
diverted from more serious considerations —Such is
the answer I \yould give to those deputies who
would place in the second line those brave Balavi
-13 ans, who, true to their colours, desire only to com
bat in the cause of liberty, and rival the glo'y of
0 the Frensh, who have alt along so gallantly de
n fended it.
•" The committee of union uiuft have already
5 seen by the nature of my dispositions that I know
'• how to do juftite to the Batavian soldiers, and
kHow how to estimate military talents.
P " For a manth, lieutenant-general Dumoreeau
'• commanded the three divisions of the line ; and for
eight days lieutenant-genersj Daendals has fuc
e cteded him. At thi9 moment, three battalions
n „ aad four Batavian squadrons are moving to join the
8 vjnguard of the French, Rationed between Nime
e guen and Duffeldorf, to cover he la(V place, and.
r support the left army of the Sambre and the Meufe
* —I with them to partake the gloiy which the
s French burn to acquire anew. I wi(h them to fra
d ternize and maintain that noble emulation, of which
e the fublimtft end is—liberty.
d (Signed) '« BEURNONVILLE,
0 " The general in chief of the combined French
" " and Batavian aimies of the north."
e
This letter being read in the afiembly, the prefi
h dent proposed that it (hould be printed, and the
e discussion adjourned, which was agreed to.
t Philadelphia,
FRIDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 7 1796"
. ■ i ■
'• MarXiid, by the Rev. Mr. Abercrombie, on Thurf
e day evening, September 30th, A 1 r. David Evans, jun.
:- t» Mil's Mart Cakey, both of this city.
Died, last evening, Master Joks Wilkinson, son of
General VVilkinfon.
0 r A Stated Meeting of the PHILOSOPHICAL
SOCIETY will be held at their Hall This Evening
at six o'clock. t
h Mr. Fenno, i
d FACT. considered as a very serious objs&ion to the
)C re-cleAi-on of Mr. Swanwick by every confident repub
lican, was dated in yoor paper of Wednefday—hij ,
> voting direaiy contrary t. Mr. Muhlenberg, when he •
1$ acknowledged that tb, v,t, ,f .Mr. ■ bad !
JavcJ the country. —In the Aurora of-this morning Mr. S.
d publiflies the following vindication of himfelf : *
.g "As to the story about what Mr. Swanwick ihould or 1
" ibould not haves said to Mr. Muhlbhuerg, it is too (
" contemptible for notice."
Th:) is a very decent and-refpedlful mode of refuting 1
1, a chargc which proves the party to potlefs no political 1
„ sentiments whatever ! C. ]
BY THIS DAY'S MAIL. !
B —
a PORTSMOUTH, (n. h.) Sept. 19.
!. FEDERAL REPRESENTATIVES.- '
a The whola number of votes for Federal Reprefenta- 1
tives, returnd to the Secretary's office, were lix thousand
' four hundred and cightoen, and are as follows .
y 3 2 XO fliaiwr a choice.
Jeremiah Smith, 5822
AMcl Fofler, 5 66 7 ( are chosen.
William Gordon, 3468 J
■- Jonathan Freeman, 1106 1
iv Peleg Sprague, 1219 j 111 nom inat:on.
NE\/-"iORK, OtSober 6.
is —
1- Latest Foreign Intelligence. j
We (top the I J refs to announce the arrival late {
1 'aft evening at the Hook, of the (hip Hope, Opt.
Haley, in 41 days from London, with late and im- ]
pottantnews—italian war doling—Auftrianßhine r
aimj flown inu> Bohemia—2 1,000 Auftrianskki- t
led and taker. 1 —Peace at hand. The (hip did not
g come up lait evening, but the Capt. ancfMr. J, As
k P'Hwall merchant, a pifienger, came up in the boat v
|C about 9 o clock, and Mr. Afpinwall was so polite J
;r as to favour us with » The Express," of Augult ,
f . I?, and " the Star," of August 22—From wltidi | ,
.we hasten to disclose such scenes as are not yet re- |
•) in the Ar.n.U of Wars ! By this (hip we ! ]
have received regular file* to Aug. 22, from whith i<
we (hall lose no time in extradtipg the other impor s
tant official details which we have not time nor room ;
" U " s da r !o The Ellis, papt. Ha.vey, fail- )
>r cd 3 weeks before the Hope. [Ar^us.]
d From the Exprtfs Evening Chronicle, of Auguji 18. '
COMPLETE RUIN OF THE AUSTRIAN i
• r ARMY IN ITALY !
J The following is translated from the Moniteur i
>rot the 14th inft.
In the fitting of the council of coo, Aug". 1? t
n * fccretary read the following raeffage:
I Citizens Dircftors,
o Ibe details that the direftorj-tranfmitted toyou '
dnV m fr, of AU S- 12 ' the operations <jf t
d the army of Italy, were ollly the to j-J ;
f tS m ° re . br,l " an '" . The commander in chief of ,
n TJ 1,36 ,ran >«ted to the direAory the his- ,
ory of hve memorable days, which affurejor ever
„ % l l r \ ™ in those countries. In fi ve ' j
id Wn'Jr t ,1 Cafn P ai g" in Italy t G en. ! ,
Wurmler has loft 13,c00 men, who have been m-de 1
a pnfoners, 6000 have been killed, and 7 o pie.es of i
Sjewnon have fallen into cur hand,, tjetlfer with !J
120 waggoßS. The reft d hi? array i» dispersed.
Lai. L'.p. us, Prcfideut.
By he Executive Directory,
Lagarde, Secretary.
On the proportion of Paitoret, the Council de.
creed, " that the army of Italy has not ccafed to
deserve well of their country."
LONDON, Monday Aug. 22.
Ofl Saturday the Paris papers of. the 15th and
16rh instant, were received after our paper was at
pref* They contain the official accounts of the
■ late successes of the French in Italy, of which we
had before only the fubltance in an official nveffagc
fen by the directory to the council of five-hundre 1.
They contain besides, some fiffi-ial details refpei. 1 -
ting the operations ol the array of the Sambre and •
ifteufe.
This morning we received the Paris Journals of
the 17th, 18th and 19th in ft. They contain a let
ter from General Buorfaparte, which our readers
5 will fisd in its proper place* giving an account of
the raising of the siege of Pefchiera, and the re
capture of Verona by the French troops
to which the Auftriaus made a last ineffectual ef
fort to retrieve their,afftirs. The wretched remains
of the Imperial troops, have taken refuge in Ty
rol. The Paris Journals also contain some official
letters ftom the army of the Sambre and Meufe,
I ,but they arc of dates anterior to those which we
■ have given in the preceding nolurans from the Pa.
ri» papers Which reached uj 011 Saturday, and affyrd
only details of operations, the result of which is al
ready known : .we therefore pultpone until to-mor
row, these and some other articles of tefs impor
tance, that we may reserve room for the contents
ef the
j HAMBURGH MAIL,
Which arrived this morning—The accounts itfhieh
it brings refpc&ing the operations-os the war is
Germany, are. not of a later date than those from
the French papers. They contain, however, some
' important particulars not before known. The ac
counts from Italy are only details of the fliort
lived advantages which general Wurmfer had gain
-1 ed before the tide of victory had again turned in
favbur of the French, and enabled them to gain
those successes which have been detailed at inch,
length by Buonaparte in his dispatches to the di
rectory. These we lhall lay before our readers to
morrow.
! The political state of Germany seems fact halting
to that crisis which we'have more than once called
to the attention of our readefs. The little states
and free cities are now only talked of as make
weights in the general adjultmeiit of the greater
iutereft ; rtrd it is n»t impoffibL*, will be coniidered
"as divisible spoil, and treated like wretched Poland,
j —But all this i 3 perhaps as necessary as the war it«
felf was to prevent thefpread of revolutionary prin
ciples, to maintain regular government, and to se
cure individual property !
. We (hall offer no further comment on the con
tents of the mail, but lay the principal articles which
have reached us before our readers. They are a®
follow—
e FRANKFORT, August.6.
Well informed persons pofuively state that ne
* gociations far an armistice are on foot. Accord
j ing to them the fortreifes ot Mentz and Ehren
breitftein ate to be abandoned to the French ; and
the republican troops arc to retreat to a certain
r line of demarkation, to the end, that they may
3 not interrupt the operations of the congress, which
is to meet at Hair.au. „ This congress is to be coo*
! vened by the emperor, jointly with the French re
public. All the powers which have taken a part
in the coalition are to fetid thither deputies ; and
after the treaty between the two furrpcr powers is
concluded, the difference between the others are
be arranged, and the lait hand put to a general
peace.
Among the effe&s lately seized by' the French
between Wurtzbourg and Oemunden, was the c—
i quipage of the imperial envoy, count de Shlick ;
together with all the public and piivate plate be
louging to the bishopric and bishop of Liege, as
well as the piate of several of the rich abbeys of
thi Netherlands.
""1 he king of France-wag on his way to seek a
refuge at Dresden; but he was met at Amberg by
a courier, who announctd to him that circum
itances required him to take another route.- His
maj'efty in consequence formed the resolution to re
pair to Piague, to proceed from thence to Rullia. '
1 he ele£tor of 1 reves is at Dresden, whither it is
e said the eleflor of' Bavaria is also to repair.
Phiiipfbourg is violently cannonaded ; and.Man
heira has been summoned within these few days.
1 he sudden interruption of ail £orrefpondence with
the latuj place seems to confirm this intclligence.
. • Attgufl 9.
Our city not having paid the contributions that
were demanded, within the time fixed for it 18
= j holtages vveie last night taken up and sent off. The
: whole number of hostages carried'off from ei
-1 1 ty amounts now to twenty-five.
- j A French corps of 8000 men, under, general
c Hatry, has taken its position near Ruffehheim, to
1 compleat the surrounding of Mentz. On the 7th
a heavy cannonade was heard near-that fortrefs. It
I'® faid,that the. French have made thcraielves ma
- iters of Gultavfburg, ok the point of the Mavn
Since the sth5 th the fortrefs of Philip-aurjr j s 'fur.
rounded by the French.
Last week a greSt quantity of carpenter's and '
bricklayer s tools were put in requisition, to be used
in blowing up the fortrefs of Konigflein. Every •
r thfng isdow ready to effect this ; the mures are due
and the blowing up of that fortrefs will take plac!
, this week, of which the inhabitants of Koningttein
and its neighbourhoodhavg received notice.
■1 Ti * fMe , ot our -#isr,ow extremely critical.
The French Commilary-Ordonnator, Dubretin,
t ( threatens tp take the molt yblent meafprc, if the
y contributions arc not fiiortly paid. Last night fe- -
t veral houses were Arched, the inhabitants of which
- j were fufpefted not to have delivered up their arms.
, : All mechanics have been ordered ,0 give in an ex
' I 4ft of the number of their journeymen
• . and male fcrva»:». I, thoU ght tbat the French,
ft t U - pr T' Cd t0 v: ° lent meafu '«. ™ean to
. e ' uceroi " g tlie numbtr ° f ma!eK ✓
The day before yesterday the French ambaflador
a! court of Hfffe Cartel, citizen Rivals, ac
, nipauied by the Heflian minifier of (late, ,baron la
Wall* de Efchen, arrived here. They were me; w
by a deputation from our senate, and were prefem d
at an entertainment prepared for them. li
COLOGN, August 7. c
General Bournonville, commander in chief of a
the army of the north, arrived here this morning, d
at eleven o'clock. He was received by the dif- o
charge of 20 pieces of artillery. The general of a
division Cuftelvert, with his flaft officers, and the n
city' commandant, received him at the gate of Ei- -
gelßeri, from whence (hey conducted him to the li
great square, where he reviewed the garrison. He tl
will set out this afternoon for Bohn, to continue his
visit to the whole extent of the line. c
August 9. a
The latest advices from the upper rhine, dated f(
the 4th inltant, announce that the French army has c
made anolKfer general movement. The division of ti
General Labordt, which eroffed the Rhine at Hun- v
ingen, aftpr having taken poffefiion of Constance f
. and Stockach, left a body of troops in the rear to p
facilitate its jundtion with the army of the Alps, p
and proceeded up the right bank of the Danube, o
This manoeuvre, which was intended to oblige e
the Anftrians to recrofs that river rapidly, produ.- h
eed in a great measure the effedt : on the lit and a
2d in!t. the Imperialists retreated from the posts f
they occupied in the county of Rechtfberg on the t
Steig, and from those near Geiflengen, to proceed r
to different points of the Danube. In eonfequence v
of these movements the while of General Moreau's ti
army advanced ; and at the departure of these ad- I
vices was advanced rapidly towards th; Danifbe, b
which river the Auftrians had not as yet entirely F
eroffed. General St. Cyr, commandant of the cen- c
tre of the army of the Rhine and Moselle,. had
fhifted his head quarters from Goeppingan to Doni- a
dorff near Heidenheim. General Defaix, who b
commands the left wing was at Getnund ; and the t
commander io chief had jutt sfta-blifhed his head- t
quarters'at Schondorff. t
The army ot the Sambre and Meufe, and that f
« of General Wartenfleben, opposite to it, have been r
. perfectly tranquil since the affair of the 27th ulti- t
mo. According to the latest advices, the Austrian f
General had his head-quarters at Zeil ; he ha{) ex
tended his wings, as if he meant to resume offen- v
five operations. Since the flight of the balloon, £
nothing has passed either at Mentis or at Ehrenbreit- '■
ften. a
On the 7th, after the eighteen hoflaf/s had been 1
carried off, another ediift was published concerning 3
the payment of the contributions, and to avert the t
Yiolcut-meafures which threatfn our city, the Se- I
nate has jutt acquainted the inhabitants, that, in a
cafe they were not immediately assisted in the belt t
poflible manner, the deftrudtion of this city and its li
conflitution, within a few days, would be unavoida
ble. Every inhabitant was again fammoned, with- c
in hours, to deliver in allcafh and plate 1'
that could be found, to save our city. a
Much as our city has till now refufej to accept 1
the offer of the Landgrave of Hesse Caffel to ad- 1"
vance the money necessary for paying the contribu- f
tions ~by the French, it now finds itfelf v
under the nccefficy of accepting that offer—a_ step f
which may be produdtive of (Jilagreeable confc- a
quences. Ytlterday negoeiations were opened for, c
that purpose by our Senate with the Hessian Mini- f
fter, Baron de Waitz. To day that painifter, ac a
compnr.ied by the French Ambassador, Citizen Ri- *
val, departed from hence.
It is now publicly said that owr city will foonbe under C
Hessian government.
SUABIA, August 5. r
On the 4th inltank the French entered Ulm, from
whence the imperialists hid removed their magazines
yi'evious to their arrival. The imperialists are retreat * '
irig to Bavaria, and will for the prefeilt take their po- 1
fition behind the Lech. It is fafd, that archdiikeCharles, <
who pafl°ed by Augjburg onjthe id inft. on his way to \
Bavaria, will j in part of Wartebfleben's army, with (
which it will assist the operations of the army of Italy. (
The French column which has passed the Danube, anrf ,
advances along the right bank of that river, is said to
consist of 12,000 men, and general Moreau is follow- '
ing. * 1
WESEL, August 13. h 1
The secret plan formed in the cab:i)cts for the 1
maintenance of the equilibrium between the pre
ponderating powers of Europe, is on the eve of be- |
ing developed" The conditions aie not as yet j
known ; but it may be forefeen, that there will be
a queftioß ot putting many small weights into each 1
scale of the balance, to form this equilibrium, which
is to lecture for a long lime—at least such is the 1
»Jiope—the peace and tranquility of Europe. jft
RATISBON, August 18. '
We have not yet learnt what success the deputa
tion of the diet to tve French generals has met
with. All we know of it is, that the French -je
lieral of division, Klein, lias assured the Pruflian
counsellor of' legation, count Bernftorf, that the
deputies will he fuccefsful in their negoeiations.—
Should they rot be able to obtain a complete neu
trality for the diet and our city, the deputies arc
iriftrudted to negociate for passports for the ambassa
dors on their way to and from this city, for they-
Archives and fervaiits, as well the security of
the inhabitants and their property.
A visit from that part of th* French army wljich
if stationed in Franconia, is not expedted here ; but
that part or the Fiench army which is closely pur
king the archduke Charles, we may expedt. The
former part of the French army seems to be march
ing to Bohemia. It is said, that from 1410 20,000
men will be encamped iu the'neighbourhood of our
city
To day, three battalions of troops of Hesse-
Dsrmfladt passed through this place. They are in
the pay of England, and are marching to Tricfl,
where l hey will be {hipped for Gibraltar. They
coniift «of infantry and cavalry.
INTERESTING REFLECTIONS
Oil the Intelligence.
IMPORTANT !
L-:ft evening arrived the shipH°P t^:a P tt a n Haley,
in 41 days from London. From the late hour
— tire papers were receivcc, we have only time to
the following. Copious cxtradfs to-morrow.
[ Daily Gaz. 1
| " |
f LONDON, August 19. bs
The intelligence which we have this day to re- °f
1 lite, is of fj awful and tremendous a nature, that tU!
t we cannot, without (jonfiderable agitation and pain, H?
t discharge our duty in communicating it to the pub- ,^,' n
lis. It will excite wortder evea in this miraculous teP
campaign, and may perhaps produce some negledt oct
f and alarm in a nation that seems familiarifed with thf
, defeat, and reconciled to disgrace. la the course tin
- ofgone day, we have "learnt the tidings of the rout tla !
f and dispersion of mighty armies, of the sbjedt hji», jq
e miliaiion and impending ruin of the greateff powers rie j
- —in one word, of events which seem to us to be w i
e little less than a pfelude to the total deltrudtion of alfi
e the established fyftcm of Europe. of
s It was natural and reasonable that the imperial ma
coart should confidcr Italy as the quarter in which
olone the French could be vulnerable. An army ; j o
j scattered over an extensive country, and occupied in
3 containing a re.tlefs and mutinous people, seemed fuf
f to present many favourable points of attack. To
- wards Italy, therefore, the efforts of Austriaaap t 0
e pear to have been diredtecfc 'It was even thought te
3 politic to weaken the army of the archduke, for the
, purpose of reinforcing Wuimfer, and a large body
. of men were detached for that objedt. By these , ftt
e extraordinary exertions, general Wurmfer found
.. himfelf at the head of a .gallant and well difqiplined Gr
j army of 60,000 men ; and that excellent officer
s seems to have thought himfelf in a condition to raifc '
e the tiege of Mantua, and perhaps effeiS the recove- v j'
d ry of Lortibardy. His firft fuceeffes corresponded j, s
c with the hopes that have been formed from so for- d«i
s midable a foice. On the 29th ult. he drove the
- French from the post of Salo,. situated an the left w '
bank of the Lago di Garda, and shortly after ex- ul
y pelled them from Brefciaj the capital of the Bref- ' a
- ciano. Tel
j These successes, however, proved as short lived j m
. as' they were trivial. The army of Buonaparte had
0 been reinforced by-25,000 men from La Vendse — lig
e that unfortunate celebrated country, through which un
the combined powers so long hoped to give a mor- t ' v
tal wound to the French republic, but whieh has in
t fadt proved the grave of the royalifls, and the belt
n nursery of republican soldiers. He withdrew his as
. troops from Verona, and concentrating his whole w<
n force, he marched without delay against Wurrsfer. Pc-
I'he dates and particulars of the astonishing events N
. which followed, are so imjjerfedt, that we can only
, give a very general them. It appears, c °
however, that Buonaparte attacked the Auftrians
at Lonado and Salo ; and at the firft of these places trt
n made 600 prisoners, and killed 2000 men. On the th<
t 3d instant, be agaia attacked them in the whole ex- cit
e tent of their line—at Lonado, Caftiglionne, and ' n
- Montechiaro, with such fiiccefs, a3 to have killed m
n and wounded 2000, taken 30 field-pieces, and made
t 6000 prisoners, among whom were two gcneial of
-8 ficers. 5^
What the particulars »f the events whieh fuc
. ceeded this great vidtory were, we have not yet
e learnt ; but Xuch has been their astonishing and j
awful result, that in five days (probably from the
t lit to the 6th inft) twelve thousand Auftrians have Tl
. been made prisoners, fix thonfand have been killed,
. seventy pieces of cannon have been laken, and their p
f whole army have been completely routed and dif- Ti
j> perfrH Icj this short pxriod uas becu nfmiliil tcd
- a numerous, brave and disciplined araiy, command
r, ed by one of the mod celebratedgeneralsof his age ; .
. for the formation of wHiieh such extraordinary efforts j- r
and faCrifices were made ; which was the sole bul m
I- walk of Germany on the Italian frontier, and in w
which were depojited the last, faint hopes of the 111
r Court of Vienna.
At a calmer momeot we might express our afto
nifhmeht at these ftupendousi and almost incredible t ;,
events, and pay a due tribute of admiration to the vi
. flcfll and valor lyliicfi have wrought such prodigies ;
j. but astonishment and admiration are loft in feelings
i, of a more awful kivrd, in the relation of vidtories,
o which threaten nothing less than the univetfal fubju- j;i
b gation of Europe. The French are now the un» et
difpntcd masters of Italy, from the Alps to the R
0 Straits of Messina j and whether They parcel it in
to dependant republics, or (till for a while, fuffer its 8
wretched princes, trembling in their palaces, to
retain a precarious and nominal authority—it is in ri
le truth and iubltance a province of France. . o
:- If turn our eyes towards Germany, the prof- tl
pedt appears, if poflible, still more clouded and
et gloomy. The Diet of the Empire, assembled at a
>e Ratisbon 011 the 30th ult. in.the lift agony of dif- e
:h may and consternation, passed a decree (whish may t ,
:h perhaps, be one of the last adts ©f power they will n
ie ever exercise I) for imploring the/French to grant e
a peace to the Germanic Body. They accused the P
Emperor of having protradted Hostilities ; and his ll
minister recriminated, by afctibing all the ca'amities
1- of the war to their inactivity and pulillanimity ; ,
et accusations which may both in part be true —But
e- on what a miserable and desperate footing they must (
in negociate, tnay be judged from the circumstance,
ie that they found it necessary to fend a deputation of
- their own number to the French generals, fuppli
u- eating them to grant protedtion to their persons and r
re archives | and that they have been compelled to
a- employ the mediation ot the King of Prussia for
:ir the fame humiliating objedt. It is a gross abuse of j
of language, to dignify by the name of negociation,
the igHominious teims which a conqueror may ehufe
:h to didtate to those who are reduced to implore his
ut protedtion.
ir- Thus is ihis proud Affemblv, the rcprefenrative of the
i, e greatest .number ut princes and ftatei that were ever united
1 in a political affectation, obliged to depend for its per- -|
1 fonal fafety upon the precarious mercy •'nd accidental J
~ > ° moderation of those who may command the armies of
ur France. I his wretched humiliation is not alcue deferr
ing of notice as an awefuf and memorable example of
"e- the vicififitude of human affairs ; he must be a ihallow
in politician indeed, who docs not perceive that fuels 1
H fiances of humiliation are likely to be productive of the
' molt terrible conferences. A vi<£lory over the dignity
of the established governments of Europe is as import
ant to the French democracy as a vidlory over their ar
mies. The one diffufes their opinions is much as the
other extends their territories. When the people ef e
•very country fee ail that has been the object of their ve- 1
neration for so many ages, degraded and laid proflrate j
'y> in the dull ; their reverence will be changed into conr
ur tempt ; All the sentiments which produce obedience to
to government will be e\tingnifhed ; and the bands of po
rt'. litical society loosened and dissolved. While the fabric
<jf the Ccrmajiie cdnftitutron, with all ,it% faults, has
1 < ■ >
<
' Iv* ' .fc
!- , /
been ever jufiiv 3cc,ount;d cr.c of the chief bulwarks P;
of the eflabllfued system of Europe, ij thus rapidly a ]
t tumbling to pieces, the fttuation of the Emp;ror ap- j ( j
pears to be equally mortifying and unfortunate. Even {
' the pallant fpirn of Hungarian Loyalty, which has of
ten, in the raoft delperate moments, sustained the tot.
3 tering fortuiles of the Bouse of Austria, has, on this
' occasion, f'orfaken him. Hungary has jpeen.deaf to
i thg voice of its diflieffed sovereign. which in other on
e times has produced such powerful effeels on that mar- C J
t tial people. . . .' th
We have received authentic intelligence that ,
Klebei lias entered Ratifbon ; but the particulars of his
s negociation (for so it-will still be ridiculouHy called !) a '
J with the captive diet, have uot reached us. We have so
f alio the bell realon to believe that some wretched terms of
of capitulation, which, by the covirtefy of Europe, c g
| may be called a Treaty of Peace, have ere this been m;
j granted by the French to the Emperor at Munich.
The term Negociation may be applied tofuch traufac- .
tiom, but negociation implies at least some equality.
1 There is no negotiation between a conqueror and a
1 suppliant. an
Whether the vi&orious Republicans will condescend ef
. to listen to the fuppiicaflons of Mr. Pitt, and vouehfafe t e
t te include him in the conditions which they may grant j )e
e to the govcrmnems ot Europe on their surrender, we ! / ,
know not j and arpidfl the draggling sentiments of
y flame, sorrow, terror and indignation, which at this ce
£ moment fill our minjls, we had almo'd said we care not. a ''
J The probability feeinp rather against a peace with to
J Great-Britain. The Emperor is too much overwhelm- ta
r td by hi. own calamities and danger*, and too urgent- co
c W prelTed by tlie necessity of an immediate accommo
dition, to be solicitous about the intereds of an ally,
whose delirucflive frieiHlfhip has been the source of all 1
® h ! misfortunes : and in the race of suppliant ambaffa- j
- dors to l'aris, Mr. Hammond seems likely to be outrun. tu
e The dctellation of the Republicans against a minister o'
: t wiote incendiary intrigues they believe to have llirred 21
uj: all their foreign and domestic enemies, is still unex- zc
hajfted ; and they can have little inducement to grant ej
temis, however humiliating, to a power wht>m they ,
m:y injure materially, and which can scarcely, in any 0
" importjnt interest, injure them. m
d We are perfeflly sensible that some part of the intel- th
- ligence may b.e called ineoiifident with that earned and ca
(j uniform delire of Peace, which we have exprefied since
the commencement of this, unfortunate conted. But
n there will nor be the real inconGdency in the
, condudl of the warmest enemies of the War, if they
reprobate vith equal warmth such conditions of peace
8 as Mr, Pitt is likely to obtain. The contrary esndufl l '
e would in fail be grossly inconfiflent. His ignominious pi
■. Peace will be the natural fruit of his abominable War. pi
s No man can detest the one, without abhorring the o- o,
, ther.—The Articles of Peace will in tru'th be the bc-ft r£
( commentary on the nature of the War. Its principles
' atid effetfls will he there written in characters that can- -'
s not be rniftaken. Reason will then be superseded, con- c
:s troverfy silenced, and folly herfelf iie infirndled. All
e those fatslconfequ;ntt;s wlfich were predicted by saga- ti
city and forefight, a%kridic uled by presumptuous and fv
d infatuated ignorance, will, by that ruinous and igno- j n
j minious treaty, be converted into hiflory and record.
r c BOSI ON, October j. . 5'
Yeflerday arrived the (hip Minerva, capt. D. Turner, )
54 days from London. Left the Downs the ogh ofAu- tl
:- guftj and Caufane-Bay, Plymouth, the 13th. —She brought ei
.j Londou Papers to the 9th.
j Passengers—Captain Tridratn Barnard, k Lady; Dud
-1 ley Walker: Joseph Loring, jun. John Graefer ; James r '
e Evans, Erlward Tuckerman, jun James Carter, jun. and I'
c Thomas? riwer. C
f > Highly Important. la
lr From the London Morn Ing Chronicle, Aug. 9. •'
The folio wing Official Note has bten feiit from-thc Mi- h
d miter of/Foreign Affairs, to French Ambafiador, si
j. Barthelemy, in Switzerland.
" The French Government is informed, that the En
' tflifli, afaer having flopped, during the war,under thenioft
s frivolous pretexts, every neutral vcffel, have jail given the
' moll pufitive orders *o the commanders of their lhipi of
n war to seize, indiferiminately, all the cargoes which they
; t may suppose to be dellined for the French.
" Whatever injury France may have sustained from jthis S
condU<S, Ihe has, Hevartlielcfs, continued to give the only
example of the mod inviolable refpeft for the Law of Na
'e tions, which conflijiite the pledge and feeurity of their ei-'
it vilization. But iifter having long tolerated the offence of
. this machiavelian system of policy, {he a: length finds her
rs felf compelled, by the mod urgent motives, to have re- J
' course to reprisals againd England.
s ' " The Executive Direilory therefore orders, all the po-
J " litical Agents of the Frcnch Republic, to inform the differ- r
a- ent governments that the squadrons and privateers of the
I e Republic will adl againd the ships of every country, in the
;H _ fame manner in which those gßvernmcnts fuffer the En S
glifh to aiSt againd them.
ts " This measure ought not to surprize them, finee p
|° it M'onld be very easy to demonstrate, that it is imps- /■
in rioufly prescribed, by necessity, and is only the efftdl '
. of a lawful defence. If these powers had known how
,f. to make their commerce refpedled by the. Englilh, we
|C j lhould have had no occasion to have recourse to this 1<
at afflifling extremity. b
~ "They will recolle<sl, that the republic of France,
1 ~ ever generous, proposed to all the belligerent powers
»7 to refpeil commerce; but that this proportion, ho
ill norable to tae government which made it, and diilat- n
nt etHiy the most perfe<3"pKilanthropy, was rejedled with h
he pride by a government atcullomed to treat with con
jj s tempt the most facrcd laws of humanity, &c." .1
A fifliing smack arrived here yesterday from St.
ut ' John's, Newfoundland, 22 day's paflage. Sht t
brings a report, that a French fleet of Ox 74 r aand j
two frigates, had arrived off Bt, John's —had land-
ed a num! er of troops to the northward of that
~ place, and\had burnt Bull's-Bay, and a number of
other small towns', and destroyed a great numb«r of (
small lifhing vefll-ls on the Banki. The great length |
of the pafTage of this yeffcl, together wiih many o
ther circtimllances, induce us to believe the report
is premature.
[A lotter from Boston by'tliis day's mail ipforms,
that it is admiral Richery's squadron which has de- •
" s ttroyed Brhifh feftlements at Newfoundland.]
the *
'cd . CONTINUATION OF
e t r J FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE,
of By the late arrivals.
of From the London Gazette, July 16.
ow Admiralty Office, July 16.
in " ExtraAof a letter from Sir John Jervis, K. B. Ad
'■ ® miral of the Blue, and ccrnmander in chief of
his Majesty's (liips and ve{T<ls in .the Mediterra
-3 nean, ta Mr. Nepean, dated Victory, off Toulon,
the June 10, 1796.
fe- 1 acquaint you, for the information of the Lords
ve- Commifiionevs of the Admiralty, that last evening,
■ate |, av j n g o bserved a French cruiser working up to
°"j Hieres bay, within the islands, I called Captain
Mslcnamara, of his majesty's ship Southampton, on.
n .j c board the Victory, pointed the ship out, and. direc
has ted him to make a dafe at her, through the Grand
cs Pat's, which he perfo. mcd '.vith admirable and
ly alacrity ; and 1 be£ leave 10 refer their Lorftiips to
> his liaietnent iuclofcd, for t'le detail of this gallant
adion.
Southampton, off Ttu'on, June 10, I 796.
is Sir,
0 In obedience to the orders I received fr.im you
:r on the Vi&ijry's quarter,deck last evening, 1 pufh
r" ed through tht Grand Pass, and hauled up under
the batteries on the Nprth East end of Porquerol
le with an easy fail, in hopes I Ihould be taken for
j a French or neutral frigate, which I have great rea
e fan to believe succeeded, for 1 got within pillol shot
is of thf enemy's ship before I was difcoveted, and
-> cautioned the captain through a trumpet not to
n make a fruiilefs reliftance, when he immediately
snapped his pillol at me and tired his broadside.
At this period, being very near the heavy battery
r j of Fort Bregahfon, 1 laid him inilantly on board,
and lieutenant Lydiard, at the head of the board
d ess, with an intrepidity no words can describe, en»
tered and carried tier in about ten minutes, although
he met with afpiritcd resistance from the captain
j. (who fell) and a iiundred men under arms to re
js ceive him. In this (hart conflict ihe behaviour ot
t , all the officers and ship's company of the Soutbamp
h ton had my full approbation, and Ido not mean to
1- take from their merit by Rating to you that the
t_ condudl of lieutenant Lydiard was above all praise.
After lalhing the two thips together, I found some
"'jj j difficulty in getting from under the battery, which
j. j kept up a very heavy fire, and was not able to re
n/- turn through the Grand Pass before half after one
:r o'clock this morning, with the L'Utile corvette of
•d 24 French fix pounders, commanded by Ci,ti
c" zen Francois Veza, and J36 men, leveral of whom
11 escaped on shore in the launch. I anr happy-to in
form you that 1 only 101 l one man, William Oirton,
marine, who was killed by a pitlol fh\>t near mc on
1- the quarter deck.' From the belt information I
id can obtain, the enemy had killed and wounded 25.
■ e (Signed; J. MACNAMARA.
Jt
; e CONSTANTINOPLE, June 30.
? e - Among th? recent glories of the reign of Seliny
the conllrurSliotr of a mercantile marjne is one whicli
is ptomifes to be of the greatell benefit to Em
r. pire, Upwards of 200 v»ffels, transports, have
been launched lately, which joined to the ships al
" ready in our possession, will make a formidable mer
cantile marine. To give them an inftitu; e and code
[1 . for their regulation, the Sultan has ordered a col
li lefilion to be made of all the previous laws lefpec
a- ting the pavy. To guarrantee the whole fr«in the
nl Maltese corsairs, h« designs to avail himfelt of the
intervention of Spain, to negociate a treaty wiih
the Grand Mailer, by which the two poweisfhall
engage to refpedl each others flag, and p irn'cular
:r> ly transport ships. The conwtries which have hi
u- therio been our carriers, will fee this with a jealous
nt eye.
The Ruffians are jeparted to gain brilliant viito
e> ries over the Persians, and their preparations in the
lid Black Sea form a fubjedf of incessant alarm to our
Cabinet. The French Ambafladnt hitherto (limu
lates the Porte ine&eftually to an open rup;ure with
the Emprels. The Dey of Tripoli has sent amonif
li-- his prcfenu some ammunition of war, by a Spanilh
>r, frigate.
n-
GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES MARINE LIST,
he —
of PHILADELPHIA, Oflober 7.
ARRIVED. Diys.
i" Schr. Prriphas, Dunn, LNew-York'6
Pomona, Gardner, Bollon 16
ci [. Two Brothers, Norton, do. 17
of Sloop Polly, Gladding, Rhode Island 5
'r- ' Betsey, Holmes, North-Carolina 9
'e- Brig Sally, Wilkins, St Übes 58
Libtrty, Mufphy, Havanna 17
he Pennfjjjvafiia, Tatsirl, St Croix
he Alfred! Rogees, New-'Voik
n Sloop Diana, Pearfon, Alexandria
The ships Camilla, Wjlliamfon was to fail from
iee Hamburgh for St. Übes and the Liberty Ramage
for Gottenburg thortly after the Eliza, arrived
, w here yesterday.
wc Oil the 6th of August, the ship Thomas Chalk
bis ley, Capt. Rafor of Philadelphia was spoke by the
brig Mary, goiup Bp to Brest. Left at Breil,
:e ' brig , capt. Ruflel, of this port—Off U?
j" ffiant capt. Jemmeny was haarded by the Melpo
aI ~ mine, a british frigate, which pressed one of his
ith hands.
in-. The ship Elisa of Baltimore was fgoke on the
.10th oj September, 8 days out, all well, bound to
London.
? -
• The schooner Betsey, East was at Kingston Sep
' * tember 6, and ftip Golden Age, Earl, was to fail
" from thence on the 9th —both .of Philadelphia.
1 ' Newbury Sept. 29.
' at FROM BERMUDA/.
° Capt. Seward who arrived here on Tuesday, 18
0 days frotr -T'enada, inform?, that they were again
* ' fitting out privateers there, and several had failed
'°" an 18 futi ship belonging to the Tuckers, was to
ot feil a soon as manned —Ttiat they intended taking
all American vessels from Gnadaloupe, and talked
of. taking, those from Cape-Francois— a new sol-.
e ' le&or ha'd arrived, an.! a new governor had been ap
pointed, who was expected oat diretUy, supposed
™" to be in a ship off the island jvhen capt. S. failed"
The wreckers have commissions. Two privateers
E, arrived just before capt. S. failed, one which had
taken a floopfrom Guadaloupe bound to Rhode-lf
land, the men had arrived at Bermuda, sloop was
re-taken by the French—heard a prize had arrived,
just before failing. *
\d- *w"■■ m.'iin .'w^ 1 ... ./ac— ——
:of Mr. FRANCIS, •
(Of the New Theatre)
' I 'AKES this opportunity of returning thanks to his
A scholars and to the trublic. Mr. Francis intends,
jrds on his return from Maryland, to open a public aca
ing, demy for dancing, Upon a plan entirely, new. He
pto flatters himfci£ that his attention t» his pupils-ht
tain 'berto renders any promises of conducing his fut'jre
on c^ eme ® 0,1 tbe mod liberal and flriileft terms, of pro»
' priety, totally unneceflary.
tec- 1 jv. B. Private tuition as ufuzl.
rand June 3 * Jav7For Sale,
AThres story BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefmit
street, between Front and Second ftr&ts, in which Havi
MefTrs. James Calbraith & Co. 1 have for many years (and
now do) carried on bulinefs. \ ~ el
Poflifllon will be given in one month, or foonffr.
For terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or T>R
HECTOR CALBRAITH. J3
* . $ Rc
A Manufactory FOR SALE.
A Vsluable SOAP and CANDLE Mjnufaftory, situate , R
in a convenient part of the city ; the works aimed new,
en an entirely original conftruftion, and built of the bed
materials, and may be set to work immediately" Persons
whowifhto purchase, are requested to apply at No. 273, (
South Second Street. in !»
September 13. ttf tf on^
Brokers Office, and —
COMMISSION STORE.
No. 63 South Third street, opposite the national new Bank. T7C
SAMUEL M FRAUNCES and JOHN VAN REED, 1?
have entered into co-partnership, under the firm of cent
FRAUNCES & VAN REED, in the business of Brokers, 1
Conveyancers and Commiflion merchants. They buy and ]
fell on commiflion every species of stock, notes of hand, :
bills of exchange, houses and lands, fee. :
Monet procured on deposits, &c. &c. all kinds c r K
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatness and 91
dispatch; accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the aoi
most correil manner. Constant attendance will be given, iooi
They solicit a share of the public favor ; they are deter
mined to endeavour to deserve it.
N. E. The utmost fecrety obferVed. • 233
SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES, 401
JOHN vAN REEBI
Philad. August 17, 1796. m&wtf 635
Valuable Real Estate, >n g
For sale at AuHion by Cafptr Thtell, of Hamburg, f or(
late the property of James and William Kinnear. t0 r
For sale by public auction, on the 9th day of November i n t
next ensuing, at the sign of Gen. Waihington, Wood's in t
tavern, borough of Reading, Berks county,the follow- I
ing real estate, viz. eon
N A TRACTor land containing 465 acre? with ma j
No. 1. Y"\. allowance for roads, called the Purchase, foul
fiuated 115 Brunfwick township, Berks county, patented, e ts
18th ot Jan. 1788 This trail, of which about 15 acres I
are cleared, is of good foil, situated on the or
Little Schuylkill, well watered and timbered, on which is
ereiled a good log dwelling house and stable.
No. 1. A trait of unimprovedUi«l, containing 284 a
eres, with allowance, &c. called Hopewell, patented aßth —
Oitober, 179®, situated in Brunfwick townfiiip, Berks
co«nty, foil good.
No. '3. A trail of unimpioved land, containing 376 a- 13
eres with allowance, &c. called Hillfburg, patented »Bth -*■>
Odlober 1790, situation, &c. as No,». TA
No. 4. A trail «f unimproved land, containing 388 a- cit;
cres,"with allowance, &c. patented 28th of October, 1786, '
situation, &c. as No. 2 and 3. dai
No. 5. A trail of land, containing 268 acres, and 57 ton
perches, with allowance, &c. situated in Brunfwick town- me
ship, Berks county, on Tomagua, or little Schuylkill, 5 anc
miles above the town of Hamburg, on which is ereited a
well finifhed two story fquaredlog dwelling house, 12 of
feet by 35, within the distance ofioo perchesfrem aforge, w'l
with the advantage of a ferry and public house; thdfe ad- (
vantages render this trail very valuable. th<
No 16. A town lot in Hamburg, enclosed with a poll ap;
and rail, or board fcnce, containing in front, 60 feet, and
in depth 18® feet, fubjeit to a ground rent of 7/5 per an- pr
num.
No. 17. A town lot in Hamburg, cnclofed asno itS.to ac<
■which it adjoins, being of the fame ijimenfions, and fubjedt ho
to the fame ground rent,on which is ercited a log stable, rej
16' by 1 £ feet _ at
No. 18 A town lot in Hamburg, adjoining to No. 17,
3 corner lot, fronting on Main and Schuylkill streets, di- thi
■Ilicnfioi's the >>->. .and above sub- re
jeftto jq/b per annum ground rent. On this lot is
cited a large 2 story dwelling house, 45 feet front on Main ex
' street, by 34 feet in depth on Schuylkill street, pleasantly lai
and advsntagccpfly situated for a store. hi
N. B. The above described three town lots will be fold fel
separately or together, as may best suit the purchasers. ir.
Conditions of sale—One third of the purchase money
to be paid to the subscribers, or either of them in Philadcl- —
phia, at or bef are the expiration of one month from the
day of sale, when a deed of conveyance will be executed ;
the refulue payable in 2 equal payment j, at 6 and 12 months p
with interest, the payment whereof to be secured by mort
gage on the premises.
James Hendetfon, "J Alfigneesto
Frederick Monttnollin, I the estate of
Thomas Rogers, ( James & Win.
Joseph D. Drinker, J Kinnsar. f u
September 26. m & th. P'
— P'
Treasury Department,
September 28, 1796. «
NOTICE is hereby given, that proposals will he re- "
ceived at the office of the Secretary of the Trcafury '«
until the expiration of th& frrft day of March next en- "
suing, for thefupply of all rations which may he required | "
for the use of the United States, from the firft day of "
June, 1797, to the thirty-firft diy of May, 1798, both «
days inclusive, at the places and within the diftriAi here- "
after mentioned, viz. At Ofwego; at Niagara; at "
"Prcfque Me; at Sandufky Lake, and on Sandulky «
River; at Detroit; at Michilimackinac; at Fort-Frank- «
lin; at Pittsburgh ; at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hamilton ; «
•at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-Jefferfbn ;at Grenville; it "
Picque Town and Loramics Store; at Fort Adams; at
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance; at any place b«low Fort 1
Defiance on the Miami-River to Lake Eric; at Ft»t n
Steuben ;at Fort Maffac ;at any place from Fort IWaflac f,
to the south boundary of the United States on the river p
MifliCippi; at Furt Knox ; at Ouiatanon. c
If supplies (hill he required for any posts or places not i:
mentioned in this notice, all such supplies fiiil) be fur- g
nilhed at priccs proportioned to those to be paid at the
posts before recited, or as maybe hertift'r agreed on }
between the United States and-the Contractor.
The rations to be supplied are to consist of the fol
lowing articles, viz, t,
One pound twoounces of hread or flour. 0
One pound two Ounces of beef, or fourteen ounces of j
pork or bacon. \
Half a gill of rum, brandy rr v.hifrey. v
One quart and half a pint of salt."> £
Two quarts of Vinegar, ( r „ tioni ~i
Two pounds 01 ooap, I „
One pound of Candles, ) 1
The rations are to be furnilhed in so :h quantities, asthat c
there {hall at all tii;if s durmg the laid term, be fuffident /
for the consumption of.the troops at Michiltmackinac, De
troit, Niagara, andOfwego, for the term of fix month* in
advance, and at eachofthe other polls, for the term of
at Icalt three months in advance, in geod and vrholefome
proviSons, if the fame lhall he r-qnired. It is to bp un
derstood, that the Contrailor isto beat the expente and
rift of ilftiirg the supplies tothetrogps at each pofl, and .
that all loffn sustained by the depredations of an enemy, or 1
by meant of the troops of the United States, lhall be paid
for at the price of the articles captured or destroyed, on
the demolitions of two or mure pcrfoiis of creditable cha
raiters, and the certificate of a cotnmiflioncd officer, as
certaining tht eirtumllaivpes of the lot,, and the amou«t
of the ai tides for which comprnfation fiiall bt claimed.
OLIVER V OLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury. 1
JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co.
No. 8, CHESNUT STREET,
Have Imported in the late vefiels fram Europe, &c. j-ij
AMD HAVE lOR SALE, £j
A general assortment of GOODS, suitable to the season— -yvili
Amongst which are, -A
BROAD and narrow CLOTHS," £
Plain and twill'd COATINGS, Stat
Rose striped and point ELANKETS, S'
FLANNELS and B MSES,
HATS aflortcd in cases,
c IRISH LINENS, SC
INDIA GOODS, generally,
A ConCgned Invoice of IRONMONGERS ,
5 Comprising a capital assortment to open a ftore-—inclu
" ding Thirty Calks of NAILS. This invoice will be fold f
entire on very advantageous term*. dv
September 20.
Lottery
FOR railing fix thousand fn hundred and sixty-seven
dollar 1 ! and fifty cents, by a deduction of fifteen per
if cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a prize, viz
s, I Prize of 5000 dollars is dollars 5000
d 1 1000 1000
3, l joo i0 °
5 400 leCO
:f 40 100 4000
d 99 jo 495°
le 200 is 3 030
n. iooo 10 ao,o» |
r- 5 Last drawn numbers of 1000 dollars each, jooo —
1334 Prizes. 44i45° 3.
4018 Blanks. —
51
_ 63J0 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44.(1° _
By order of the DireAors of the Society for eftablilh* j,
ing Ufeful Manufa&ures, the fuperintendants of the ?at
erfon Lottery hive requested tbe Managers to offer the
foregoing Seheme te the public, and have dire&ed tiem j
to refund the money to thafe persons who have purchased or 1
er in the former Lottery, or exchange tke tickets for tickcts
l S in this Lottery. _ • ■]
7 - The lottery has a&ually commenced drawing, and will vJt
continue until finifhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
A may be seen at the office of William Blackburn, No. 64 | r0
e, south Second street, who will give information where tick
d, ets may be procured. is j
es Dated thw 17th day of June, 1796. t (,, ;
®r 7. AT GUMMING, thc
is JACOB R. HARDENBERG,YMvaigcr*. A
JONATHAN RHEA, J ,ht
t a " dtfeo wi
ks Samuel Richardet,
a- "n ESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen sol
th Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY a '
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in thc ™
a- city of Philadelphia: , '
IS, The Subscription Room will be furnifhed with all the '
daily papers publilhed in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos- ' '
57 ton, Baltimore, together with tfiofe of the principal com- m '
n- mercinl cit;es of Europe—They will be regularly filed
j and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
1 a Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
li of French Liquors; together with the usual refrefhmcnts, mi
ge, will at all times ke procured at the bar.
id- Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with *7
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the most
oft approved Mjlt Liquors from London and othef breweries. " 1
nd The Larder will befupplied with the prime and earliest c .
m- produ&ions of the Seafen. t ri
Large and small Parties, or Jingle Gentleman, may J>e l Ci
,t« accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
e& hotirs most convenient to thttnfelves—a cold Collation is S"'
ile, regularly kept for conveniency, the Bill of Fire ta be had
at the bar.
I", Th. B (Vr-jjiii will ta completely -ind
di- the utmost attention paid to cleanliaefs, and every other
ub- requisite.
erg 3" SumiTel Richardet will be happy to receive, and
ain execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at -f 2
itly large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfelf that nothing on his part fliall be wanting to pre-
"old serve that patronage with whieli he has been so diftinguifh
ingly i'lonored.
ney Philadelphia, April 19. mwf
lei- —■ ■
Treasury of the United States. A
iths XTOTICE is hereby given to all persons who are or
Qrt _ Jl\ may be Creditors of the United States, for any sums
of the'funded Deit, or Stock, tearing a present interejl of fix
per centum per annum:
:s 1 ft, That pursuant to an Afi of Ceogrefs passed on the
°f 18th day of April, 1796, intitledan ait in addition to an p
Vm. aft, intituled " An ad making fuither provision for the
support of public credit, and for the redemption of the
pubKc debt," the faiddebt or stock will be reimbursed and
— paid in manner following,to wit. " First, by dividends
" to be made on the last days of March, June and Septenv
" ber for the present year, and from the year one thousand f>
* seven hundred <i ninety-feve», to the year one thou
: re- " sand eight hundred & eighteen inclusive, at the rate of "
fury '« one and one half per centum upon the original capital,
en- " Secondly, by dividends to be made on the lafl day of r
ired « December for the present year, aid from the year one
y of " thousand (even hundred and ninety-seven, to the year ,j
>«th " one thousand eight hundred aud fwenteen inclusive, at
ere- " the rate of three and one half per centum upon the ori
; at " ginal capital; and by a dividend to be ma> on the last
i(ky « day of December, in the year one thousand eight hun- £
ink- « dred and eighteen, of such sum, as will be then ade
on ; « quate, according to the contracft, for the finaj redemp
it " tion of the said flock."
; at ad. All diftiniSion between payments on account 6(
Fort Tntereft and PrineipAl being thus abolished by the eftablilh-
Fc»t ment of the permanent rule of reimbursement above de
iffac scribed, it hai become necessary to vary accordingly thc
iver powers of attorney for receiving dividends; the public ' r
creditors will therefore observe that the following f#rm t!
not is eftablifhedfor all powers of attorney which may be £
fur- granted after the due promulgation ot this notice, viz. li
t the KNOW ALL MEN ST THESE PRESENTS Act C
I °n r e/ I
.. do male, conjitule and appoint
my true and lawful At- ' 1
torn/y, forme, ar.din my name, to receive the dividend.s which art,
or Jball te payable according to Liiv, on tit (here describing the '
"of ftock)Jlanding in my name in the tooh of (here defcribuiy the !
books of the Treasury or the Commiflioncr of Loans,
where the flock is credited) from (here mfert tic com
mencement and expiration of time for which the power of
lons attorney is to continue) with power atfo an attorney or attor•
nies under him, for that purpose to male anifuljiitute, and to do ail
lawful aßs rcqu'fitefor Jjeßing(bepremifev, hereby ratifying and
Unat all that my said Attorney er hi,fuljiitule,Jbail lawful- '
aent ly J oy by virtue hereof f
Dc- In IVitmfi hereof, I have hereunto set my Hani and Seal the
in day of in the year \
m Sealed and Delivered (
some j n ]
BE IT KNOWN, that en the day rf I
£ and efors meperfonally cane
, and within named and acknevtledgtd tie alove letter of attorney t» te 1
or tis aS and (Led. i
■paid In tejlimcny whereof I have hereunto fit my Hand and affix
• or "> Seal the day and year lafl afore/aid.
cha- Given under my Hand at Philadelphia, thie twen
r>al" tieth day of July 1796, pursuant to direaions
10u,t frotn the Secretary of the Treasury.
*• , SAMUEL MEREDITH,
j Ireafurer of the United Statei.
ry. I »ir,ny,
t
For Sale, °"
A Complete Font of Brevif.r,
TTNtirely new, and yet unopened. The weight of this
li font is about 3 w lb- It is from the Foundery ol A
Wilson & Sons, Glasgow, and will be fold at toft 6c charg 1
Also for Sale, r. pair of Super Royal Chafes. "ev
Enquire at the Office of the Gazette ol .the United on t
States, 119 Chefnut-ftrfet. lead
Stptember 17. —. 1 '
Cit\ cf Walhington. i ar g
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No.U, «
FOR THE IMPROVEMENI 0 i THE witl
FEDERAL CITY. »jj
1 A magnificent 7 20,000 dollars, & ? r o ,ooo hall
dwelling-houf'e, ) 3°3 000 > are ) of
i ditto 15,000 & cafl* 25,000 40,000 vau
1 ditto 15,000 & calh 15,000 30,000 neaJ
i' ditto 10,000 3c cash 10,000 ao,doo jn
j 1 ditto JjOoo & cash 5> 00 ° 10,000 . t j le
r i 1 ditto 5,000 & calk 5> 000 10,000 jng
-1 cacti prize of 10,000j ja g
3 2 do. 5,000 each, are • 10,000 con
3 io do. 1,000 - - 10,000 ve p
d 20 do. 500 - - 10,000 win
00 do. 100 - • 10,000 upo
3 200 do* s"° " ■ 10,000 Roc
3 400 do. 25 • ~ 10,000 and
1,000 do.« 20 " 20,000 the
D 15,000 do. 10 • • 150,000 and
3 ' thci
i<5»739 i 1 1";
3 3i»i6x Blanks. j"
s 50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity of
* Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the lA st drawn
e ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one :
" And approved notes, securing payment in either money
or prizes, in ten days.aUer drawing, will be received for
s any number not less than 30 tickets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of the pri- 1
vate buildings to be ere&ed in the Oity of Washington— En
:s Two beautiful designs are already feleded for the entire t
4 fronts on two of the public squares; from these prawiugs —
it ispropofed to erect two centre and four corner bmldings, -i
as soon lis possible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the mannerdefcribed in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery, "yl
'• A nett dedu&ion of five per cent, will be made to defray V
the necessary expenses of printing, &c. and the surplus tw<
_ will be made a part of 'tke fundintended for the Nati»nal a (
ÜBiverfity, to be erected with'in the city of >Vaffiington., ton
The Drawing will comtaeiice as soon as the tickets are
fold off.—The money prites will be payable in thirty days
y after it is finilhad ; and any prizes for which fortunate
numbers aie not produced within twelve months after the
drawing is cl«fed, are to'be considered as given towards
le the fund for the Univcrfity ; it being determined to fettle
i C_ the whole business in a year from the e-.ding ef the draw
ing, and to take up the bonds given as security.
The real securities given for the payment of the Prizes,
are held by the President and two Directors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half tke a
,s mount ol (he lottery.
' The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of
tJ, the late Commissioners afiifted in the management of the
Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake this arduous talk "
, 9 a second time on behalf of the public ; a fufflciefit number
ber of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
friends to a National University and the other federal ob- _ u
l £ jo&stnay continue to favorthe design.
at By accounts received from the different parts of tha
j Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets
a( i have been sent for sale, th« public are allured that the n0
drawing will speedily commenee, and that the carc and
caution unavoidably necessary to insure a fafe disposal of j r
the t rendered the short fufpepflon indiipenfable. t u
SAMUEL BLODGET.
nd «§» Tiekets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; 0
at James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter Gilman, Boston
, cs of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Well*
re _ Cooper's Ferry. co
Watson's Answer to Gibbon.
p
JUST RECEIVED,
And for (ale by J. ORMROD, N«. 41, Chefnut-ftreet,
or Apology for Christianity, '
In a firte r of Letters, addrejfed te
Ebwarb Cibbon, Esq_. j
the nt^sr t ' le Hiflory_ of the Decline and Fall of the j,
Roman Empire: (j e
the Bv R. WATSON, d-d. f. r. s. Bishop of Landaff. of
the (Price 75 cents bound ) in
md Watson's Anfw'er to Paine, cc
ids To be had at the fame place. P 1
nv The enemies of Religitn are aiuake ! Let not ber t 0
ind friends Jleep.
Sept.'r. mwScftf
4- NOTICE.
°' ' 1 'HE Subscriber, having been reduced in his circum
■ >ne X stances, by sundry misfortunes, and being thereby
car uuable to fatisfy his just debts, hereby give* notice to his -i
at Creditors and to all persons concerned, that he intends to 7'
J ri - apply to the General Assembly of Maryland at their next
session to be held on the firft Monday of November next. '•<
un * for the benefit of an ait of insolvency.
t,e " WILLIAM EDATONDSON 0!
™P" Eafton. ift of the 9th month, 1796. iawtiftMN
'i o be fold,
ifli~ . -
( j e _ A PLANTATION, in thetown of Woodbury, coun
±\. tyof Gloucester, and (late of New-Jersey, contain
blic * n g a bout one hundred and fifty acres ; a suitable propor
tion of whicii is woodland and improved meadow. A
lic great pait of the arable land is in a high state of cultiva
z tion, and vary natural to the produ<3.iqn of Red Clover.
' On said plantation there is a genteel two-story brick house, (
with four rooms on a floor, and a good-dry cellar under
the whole ; together with a barn, carti-cribs and carriage- '
heufe. l'he garden is large, and contains a good collec 11
tion of the bell kinds of graTted and inoculated fruit trees; f
thc orchard consists Of about three hundred grafted app'e
tj*e trees. Any.person iaclined to purchase said premises, may 0
' e be informed ef the terms by applying to 0
ANDREW HUNTER. °
rof I'-'y 2 9 J f
Tail To be Sold, I
and A'o. 128, North Second-Street, and ly fenera! of c
tbe Apothecaries in this City. ■»
of the right to remove pains and inflamms
I the 1" tions lrorn the human body, as fecared to Dr. ELISHA c
PERKINS, by pateot, with inflrumenlsand directions ne- \
ceffary for the pratliee. This mode of treatment is particu- c
larly ufeful in relieving pains in the head, tice, (eeth, brcall
fide, ftornacb, back, rheumatiffns, recent gouts, &c. &e. ' t
Notwithflanding the utility of this prattice, it is not pre
t, te fumed but there ate cases in which this and every other
remedy may sometimes fail.
ffix- J une ■'
wen - i o be disposed of,
lions HTHE time of a healthy NEGRO WOMAN, who
X has between f»ur and five years to fer've • She
can be recommended for her sobriety and honeflv For
«. particulars enquire at No. 13*, Chefnut-ftroct.
J. Anguft 3. wW f
On IVtdnefdav evening, the 12tb mjt. at 7 o'clock, r>
the Cojfct-Uoufe, I
Will be Sold by Public AuSion,
f A LARGE, sligant, and well finifhed three (lory
. A Brick HOUSE, (the late residence of Gen. Wake
Stewart,) with, a Lot of Ground thereunto belonging,
I on the Welt fide of Third-street, near Union-street, con
taining in front 32 feet, and in depth 100 feet to an alley
leading into Union-street. Ihe House is 32 feet front,
and 50 feet deep; the ieveral rooms contained in it an «
larg£, commodious, and coovplcatly finifhed; the two
firft stories are each thirteen feet high; there are ten
* mahogany doors in the house, a geometrical ftair-caf,
with mahogany rails, an d a good Iky-light ; the kitchen
is in the cellar; which is spacious and convenient, and
finifked with an even, flew holes and'pantries, a ferv«ir>-
hall and large wine •cellar adjoining the kitchen, in frcn
of which is an area in which is a pump; the yard is
vaulted. Communicating with the saul building, is a
neat, three-story Brick HOUSfe, on the North fide of
cJnion street, containing 20 feet front ty 20 feet deep,
the lower part of which is at present occupied as a compt
ing-houfe, and the upper part divided into well finifhed
large chambers: t!his house, may, at a small cxpenc?, be
converted into a convenient dwelling ; the street door is
very handfsme, and the front and back have Venetian
wmdow-ftiutters. Adjoining the last: mentioned house,
upon the lot belonging to the firit, are ere&ed Bathing-
Ropms, See. there arc likewise very good Coach-Houses
and Stables, finilhcd equal (or nearly so) with any in
the city, on a lot, containing on Union-street 20 leet,
and in depth 011 the Weft fide of the said alley 52 feet—
are good cellars under the whole ot the buildiug,
and a Wine Room over a part of the Stable, with a Hay*
Loft over the remainder. Approved notes at 60 and 90
days will be taken for one half of the purchase money,
the remainder on like notes at fix months, feeurity to be
given on the premises until the whole is discharged.
FOOTMAN 55* Co. Au&ioneers. '
a 6th Odt. dti2th
y " FOR SALE,
An Elegant Bay Horse,
Fifteen hands high, f»ur years old, warranted found.
.. Enquire at No. 194, Market-street.
■e O Aober 6. * %
r s —
s ' Waflnngton Canal Lottery,
n N0 . I.
r- "\T THF.REAS the State of Maryland has authorised
y YV the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
's two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting .
*1 a Canal through the City of Walhington, froEi th Poj
tomacto theEaftern Branch Harbour.
*e The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
rs Viz .1 Prize of 20,000 dollars, 20,000
te 1 ditto 10,000 10,000
7 last drawn "> „,
19 , Tickets, each \ 5,000 , 35 *
' e 6 ditto r;ooo 6,000
>• to ditto 400 4.000
io ditto 100 3,000
55 ditto 50 3,750
5750 ditt® li 69,008
a " To be raised for the Canal, 16,150
5850 Prizss, l?5,ooo
. 11650 Blanks, not two to a prize/
"" 17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
gj" The CommisSioner; have taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid ad for the punilual payment of
the prizes.
" e The drawing of tins Lottery will commence, without
•J' 5 I delay, as soon as dtr Tickets are fold, of which timely
•"* notice will be given.
n< * Such prizes as are not desMnJcim-fix-manths after thi
0 drawing is fimfiicd, (hall be confider_d as relinquifhcd for
' e< the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed j NOTLEY YOUNG,
; 0 DANIEL CARROLL, of D.
™ LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. m.dUncanson,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES .BARRY.
City of Wa!hington, Feb. 11. §
et ' At a special meeting of the Board of Di
rectors for eflabU/h;ng ufeful Manufactures, holdcn
at Paterfon, July 8, 1796,
RESOLVED, That a special meeting of the Stock
holders of the Society be called on the firit Monday,
being the third' ay of October next, at Paterfon, by tea
iff. of the dock of the fa'me day ; then and there to t.ke
into confiderarion the propriety of dissolving the said
corporation, agreeably to the lav/ m such cafe made and
provided—and the Stockholders are earnestly requested
l 3gr to attend the said meeting in person or by proxy.
August 27 dt3othO
- F 0 R S A L E.
PLANTATION,
'by A BOUT 12 miles from this- City, situate in Abing
his il ton Townihip, Montgomery-County; .containing:
to 70 a«fcs, a new stone house, two stories high, 2 rooms ona
ext floor, fire places in each, a stone • kitchen and stone spring
;*t. house, over an excellent spring of water, a barn, ftablej,
fbeds, barracks, &c. A large apple orchard, and a varietyof
1 other fruit, about 12 acres of good meadow well watered,
and wood fufficiewt for fire, and fencing the place. PofTcffi
— on may be had the jft of April next. Property in this city
will be taken in exchange, or MORRIS and NICH6LSONS
in payment. Enquire at No. 37, Arch.Strcet,
u . n " Philadelphia, September 13, 1796. ttftf
un- /_
'°£ F 0 R S A L E,
iva- A very Valuable Estate,
use, (^ IALLF - D TIV ITT ENH AM, f.tuaK in tilt
j er ' townfliip of Upper Derby, and county of Delaware,
L „ e _ 7 miles from Philadelphia, and half a mile from the
lec Ilew e^ern roa d containing 23oacres of excellent land,
ies • wbich are good watered meadow, 90 of prime wood-.
p ; e- aR d the reft arable of the firft quality. There .ire
liay on premises a good two story brick house, with 4 rooms
on a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a punsp-wclt
of excellent winter in front; a large frarpe tarn, /tables,
and other convenient buildings ; a smoke-house and {tone*
spring-house ; two good apple one of peach'
es. she fields are all in clover, except thojTe immediatelf
under tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advartage
foj of water in each of them, which renders it peculiarly con
venient for grazing. ♦
ma 1 he situation is pleasant and healthy, and from thehigk
■HA cultivation of the land, the good neighbourhood, and the
ne- vicinity to the city, it is very suitable for a gentleman *
icu- country feat.
cast, The foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Harijiaflf
deceased, and offered for sale by
thei Mordecai Lewis,
Oft. 9. tt&f Surviving Executor.
W _____—-
,-bo PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO.
She 9 —No. 119—
CH E SSWT-STREET.
[Price Eight Dollars per Anasia.]