of the Unto States', & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1190.]
For Sale or Charter,
BOSTON,
BURTHEN about 1000 Bbls. of flour—flie may be fcnt '
to sea at a fault eipence, Her fails and rigging befog la 1
very gooi order—apply to \
James Campbell, or
. ... -.Sirl..- George Latimer.
A pril, Ms. .. ,
Snow Hebe.
r—FOR SALE, i
The Snow JiEBE, (
A faithful Philadelphia built veflel, c4f»
ries 1,3000 bu(hel« of grain or a6oo barrets flour, is rea*
dv to take in a cargo. She is about four years old.
Applv to PETER BLIGHT.
Who has for sale,
Sugar, Coffee, Cocoa, and Pimento.
Also,
A Parcel of CHOICE PORT WINE.
June 6 2L !
For Cadiz, ,
ITo fail on or abont the 15th inft. from i
The (hip Hazen, 1
Escelleut accommodations for PaJingew. For passage
only apply to Miller and Hoope, at New-York; or to
ihe Printer hereof. [|une IJ. tjw]
For Sate at AuEl 'toh,
ON Thursday, the 30th inft. at 7 o'clock, at thl Mer
chants' Coffee-Hoofed
ysr Tie Schooner
Polly & Sally,
BTTttTHEN 7710111, well found, and may
be Teen at the wharf of Messrs. Jeffe & Robert Wain—
The terms of payment will be one half «f the pirchafe
inoney at 60 days, and the remainder at 90 days, in ap
proved notes,
Footman Es 5 Co. Auctioneers.
S, June 2i §
FOR SALE,
* THEOargo of the ship Catharine, John Farraday,maf
t«r, from Hifpaniola,-at the wharf of Messrs. Jeffe ARo
tot W»ln,
Consisting of
156 Hogsheads of SUGAR
Si Hogsheads") COFFEE ,
»c 8 Bags J
44 Hhds.of Clarified MOLASSES
71 Bales of Cotton
.-CI i»~ AtSO TOIL SAL*,
The said fti P>
BURTHEN about 14 or 4500 barrels—
rpl Strong, well found, and may be sent to
at a small expense. Apply to
John Craig.
Jane iT-.r . .•-r— §
United states, ) /r
Pennsylvania District, ) ,
Notice it hereby given,
That in pwfuance of a Writ to me dife&od, from the
honorable Richard Peters, EsqUire, Ji>dge of the
Diftrift Court of the United States in and for the Penn
sylvania DiftriA, will be exposed to Public Sale, at the
Merchants' Coffee-Houfe, in the city of Philadelphia, on
Tuesday the sth day of July next, at'ia o'clock at noon,
The Schoontr or vessel called the
all and lingular her tackle, &C. The
fame having been condemned within said court for the
payment of Mariners' wages, &c.
William Nichols, Marjbal.
Marshal's Office 1 »l—S
For Hamburg,
THE AMERICAN SHIP
HARRIET,
Thomas W. Ncrmak, Commander^
• iV remarks We fine, fact-failing (hip, with excellent ,
njodations for paifengers. A confiderablepirt[«f |
engaged and ready to go oo board, and is expelled to fail in
10 days. For bright or passage, apply to tbt captain on
board) the lower fide of WaJnuuftreet wharf, or to
Peter Kuhn.
June >8
T. NOBLE,
BROKER
ESPECTFULLY informs his friends and the
public that he has.removed his office to his house No.
Chefhui Street, next door to his former residence, where,
every Buhnefs in the line of a BfcoKER, are faithfutly tranf-
; Money procured to any amount at a moment'r notice
ALSO,
WILL be kept a numerical book of the drawings of all
tbe Lotteries now extant —For the purchase of Tickets, infor
mation will be given asufual. Canal Tickets ia the second
Class a»e now for lale. From every information received,
"VfaflringtoQ Lottery will absolutely commence in a few days.
Jwne 24 d.t.f.
" Mr. FR A N CI S,
[Of the New Theatre)
TAKES this opportunity of returning thanks to his
scholars and to the public. Ms. Francis intends,
•n Ms return from Maryland, to open a public aca
demy for dancing, upon a plan entirely new. He
flatters himl'elf that his attention to his pupils hi
therto renders any promises of conducing his future
fifhemes on the molt liberal and ftri<Seft terms, of pro
priety, totally tinncceflary.
N. B. Private tuition as usual.
TO LET,
Ready furniftied, for three or four months, certain,
A GENTEEL three story brick house, No. 7c,
North Eighth-street. For terms enquire of
Mr. Francis as above.
Jime »8. dtf.
Landing,
This Day, at Willing* & Francis's wharf, from|the Brandy
wine Miller,
-A cargo of Rum & Sugar
from St. Croix.
Fqr Sale by
John Nixon & Co.
June *3
Take Notice,
' I 'HAT the Subscriber intends to ma*« applies- 1
X tion for the renewal of a Certificate, No. 1609, -
for 4000 dollars, dated the 14th December, 1795, bearing
interest at s per cent, from id January, 1796, in the
name of David Dunderdale St Co. of Lteds, in York
shire, merchants. The fame isfappofed to have been Mil
on its way to New York, tinder cover to Blaecker Sc
March, of that place, on the 6th of January last-
Thomas M'Euen.
Philadelphia, 52d June, j
y—■ 1
Wanted, <
A YOUTH of frtrh 11 r to 15 yean of «gt, bf refpcflable
chara&er and coone&ioas, as M Apprentice to the Mcr
oantile bufmefs.
Apttly to the
J""' -8 11 :
CINCINNATI.
THE Members of this State Society are hereby notified
that their Anniverfiry Meeting, for the purpose of rle£U
ing Officers of the Society, and tranfa£ting such other bufl
nefs as may come before them, will be held on the 4th day of
July next, in the State House, at to ©'Clock in the morning :
where their punctual attendince is teqnefted. After the bu
siness is finilhed, the Society will adjourn to Mr. O'Ellers
Motel, in orderto celebrate the birth-day of our F»tt»oM
and Independence. The dinner will be on the table at
3 o'Clock. The Members of the other State Societies of the
Cincinnati, who may be in this city on that day, are particu
larly invited to join in celebrating it.
fly order of the Handing Commute,
/ ROBERT PORTER,Sec'ry,
June 14 .
A small Invoice
PER the ship Harriet, capt. Thomas W. Norman, from
Hamburgh, ctnfifting of
Ravens Duck,
Datruflc and } Tablc Clothl
Diaper J
Holland Linen
Cambrics, See.
ADSO,
A NEAT ASSORTMENT OF
Gold and silver Watches.
Which will be difpefed of together or by the package.
Apply to
Isaac Harvey, jutt.
No. 5 South Water Street,
June is §3W
TEN DOLLARS REWARD.
LOS T,
JUNE >sth, between Shippenand Market streets, a red
IVOROCCO POCKET BOOK, containing a Check
on the Bank of thfe United States, drawn by Peter and
Henry Miercken in favor of Mr. R. Potter, for 1,005 dol
' lar», and seVeral notes of hand past due ; together with a
share in the New Theatre, and ftveral other papers of no
consequence but to the owner.
Whoever will bring it to No. 136 Market street, shall
feccive the above reward.
N.B. Payment of theCheekis flopped at the Bank.
June if. 5
Sales of India Goods.
The Cargo of theftip Ganges, capt. Tingcy, from Cal
cutta and Bengal,
consisting or
A Large atld general assortment of Bengal and Madras
t\ COTTON and SILK GOODS.
AXONS WHICH ARE
A variety fine worked and plain Mujlins,
Doreas, &c. Alio,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugflr,
In bo*«s and bags—and BLACK PEPPER.
J 7 or Sale by
Willings Francis,
No. 11 Penn Street.
June 8 _ . §
Fifty Dollars Reward.
LOST,
THE last evening, between 5 and y o'clock, a 'large Red
MOROCCO DOCKET-BOOK, containing 10 or 30
Notes of Hand (inclosed in a Parchfnent) to a considerable a
mount. sundry papers, Certificates "of 6 per cent,
(frock, a deed of a house and lot In Middletown, Stc. See.See.
The above reward will be paid on delivering the fame to
the Printer hereof. As it it ot great consequence to the owu- j
cr, it is hoped it will not be withheld.
The piyrtientof the Notes it (lopped.
June tg
New Hat and Hosiery-store,
WHOLESALE, AND RETAIL,
By WILLIAM M'DOUGALL,
No. 134 Mztkct-flreet,
Third door from tile corner of Fourth* south fide
Men's Black American and Englilh HAT 6, of various qui*
lities and prices
Dittp Drabs and Green uoders
Ladies' ditto, black, and a large afTortitient of fancy do.
Coloured Bravcrs, With a great variety of elegant and
fafhionable Trimmings
Youths Black and Drab-coloured do.
Children's fancy do
All kinds of Silk, Silk & Cotton* Cottoii & Thread IiOSE
Knit, coloured Pantaloons
Do, Drawers
Do. Breeches Patterns
Silk Gloves
Knotted, coloured do. Cotton
A quantity of Mending Cotton, fofted colours.
(The Hats finilhed in the newest fafhion.
June 27. eoirii
Rofs & Simfon,
Have for. sale,
French Checks
Stripes
Printed CottoflS
Muflinets
Table Cloths and Napkin* ,
Nankeens of an excellent quality pet the package, fit
for the Weft India market, and entitled to the Drawback
Grey Ginger in bags
Superior old Sherry in quarter calks
A few pip«s and quarter caflcs Lisbon Wines
June 11
For sale by the fubferibers,
IN PT:NN-SfItTTtT,
130 quarter Cherts frefh Hyson Tel;
100 ditto do. frefh Souchong Teij
300 Boxes China, Containiftg small tea setts of 4»
picces;
400 pieces Bandanoes.
Willing is? Francis.
January 1 3taw.
FRIDAY EVENING, JULT i, 1796.
Notice to Claimants
For BRITISH SPOLIATIONS.
THE COMMITTEE
Appointed by tbi Merchants of this City, ivbo are fuf
ferers try Bntijh captures,
RfcCOiMMENI),
THAT every Claimant who has not already exhibited
well authenticated proofs of his property, furnilh, (
Without delay, proof that the property claiitted is bona
fide American, of its coll or value at the plaw of expor
tation, and at the place to which it was destined, here
that can be done) and the freight payable or customary,
at the time «f exportation, for like good* and voyages.
When the claim is for vessel, to fpecify the toflnage, age,
where built, and the a>fbual cofl or value.
These documents ought to be proved by Oath, or affirm
ation, of the party claiming, made and certified bv a ma
gistrate or notary public, and corroborated by i'ucli other
testimony, as the nature of the cafe will admit.
Sueh of them as are handed to the Committee, will be
forwarded to the Conrtniflionens appointed on the part of -
the United States, to adjust the Claims of American
Citizens. \
THOS. FITZStMONS, Chairman
of the Committee.
PbiladelnMa, t& June, d^w
Wm. HOLDEKNKSSE,
No. 76 High Street,
HAS received, by,the latest arrivals from Europe and
the F.aft Indies, a Well feleficd alTortnJent of Silk
Merccry, Linen Drapery and Haberdalhery Goods; which
he will fell, Wholesale and Retail, On the lowed terms )
A*IONCST WHICH ARK, .
Some fine India muslins emoroidered with gold and ClVer
Superfine Book, Jaconet, aad Mulmul ditto
Do tla do do Handkerchiefs
Some extra black taffetioS,luteftrtngs and colored Pet Cans
Bartdano Handkerchiefs
Long and Ihort Nankeens
Snglilh Mantuas of the £if ft quality
Damalk table linen and napkins, very fine
Siik Hosiery, an elegant affortm«nt
Thead and cotton do
UmbrePias—-green fillt, oil'ddo. and do cloth
French cambrics, very fine
Irish Ijinens, do. &c. Ac. June t4 §
A Genteel family wish. to rent a COUN 1 Y SEATi
in an agreeable fituatioti, within a few miles of
Philadelphia. If furniflicd, it would be more agreea
ble.
Apply personally or by letter to Mr. Taylor, at Dr.
Yeatman's, No. aij, South second ft(eet, corner of
Second street- June A. $
Just Arrived,
In the Snow Boston, James Kirkpatrick,mafter from Li
verpool,
50co Bu(h®U SAIjT j
100 Crates QUEENS WARE ; ami
An AfTortment of SHIP CHANDLEUY)
FOR SALE
On board, at Pine-street wharf. to
fames Campbell, or
George Latimer.
April in. S
For SaL&—--
A Three story BRICK HOUSE and TSt;ln Chefmit
street/ between Fruntand Seco".d streets, in which
Messrs. James Calbraith & Co. have for many years (and
now dp) carried on bryfinefs.
PofiefTion n*ill te giverl in one month, or foonef.
For terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, pr
HECTOR GALBRAITH.
April 21. .$
Samuel Richardet,
RESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
Merchant), that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in Ac
city of Philadelphia:
The Subscription Roottt will he furnifhed with all the
daily papers published in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos
ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com
mercial citits of Europe—They will be regularly filed
and none permitted tobe taken a way on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
of Frcflch Liquors; .together with the usual refrefhments,
will at all times be procured at the b*ri
Gentlemen may depend on being "accommodated with
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the most
approved Malt Liquors from London and other breweries.
The Larder will be supplied with the prime and earliest
productions of tho Seatbn.
Large and 1 small Parties, or fiilgle Gentlemen,, ihay be
accommodated Dinners, or Suppers, at
hours most convenient to thcmfelves—a cold Collation is
regularly h«pt for conveniency, the Bill of Fare to be had
at the-bar.
The Lodging Rooms Will be completely furniffied, ahd
the ntmoft attention paid to eleanlinefs, and every other
requisite;
SAntuiL RichaHiet\Vill behappy to receive,-atld
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large' and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfelf that nothing ou his part (hall be wanting to pre
fervethat patronage with whieh he has been to diftinguilh
ingly fionored.
Philadelphia, April 19. , . §
TO BE LET,
A LARGE Commodious dwelling House, No. 124
Spruce street, with a convenient stable and Coach,
Heufe,—Affo for sale a Chariot but little the worse for
use. _ June a- eotl
George DOBSON,
BECS lfrave to inform the Storc-Kccpers in Town and
Country, that ke has removed from Market-Street to
N O, 25, south Third-'ftreet,
whettf he i* opening a Large and Elegant Affortmfcnt df thfe
undermemioned articles—viz.
Superfine London Cloths and Kcrfeymcre«|
Yorkshire second l)o. Do..
El?rtic do. do.
Mix'd and Biue Coatings
FlannelU, &tc.
Manchester Printed Callicoel,
London (jhinti ditto,
Blue and ditto Furnitures,
India ditto,
Long Cloths, Coffaes, flaftas, Battilias& Conjevrettts,
4"4 9"® Superfine India Book MwHio*,
4-4 and 9-8 India Book Handkerchief*,
4-4 and 9-8 Scotch ditto,
4-4 &6-4 plain do. Muffins,
4-4 & 6-4 BritiHi Jaconets,
6-4 Briti(h Checks and Strip?#,
4-4 India do» do. do.
4*4 ditto Chilloes, Madras Handkerchief*, See.
A large atTortißcnt of figur'd and ptain Muflinets,
Quilting*, Dimities* and Striped Nawkeens,
Fancy Vt r aillcoatings,
Ginohams of the hrft Quality, fubje£l to Drawback,
India Nankeens, t
Men's White And coloured Si k Hocking.*.
May 9
RECEIVED,
By the Brig Welcome Return, s\ j ,
27 Bales COTTON.
JtSy the Schooner Abigail, from j
too Casks PlrjKid RICE. i
An 3, it the Sckovr.tr jfohn, Jrcm So/lon, -y
SEWING-SILRS, various colours, .
GURRABS , V. A
COSSAHS. ?.tk} India. BiVidirin'o liandkclifsi
Frtr Sate by
N. St |» Erazier,
jS'o. 9;> South Ffont ftreep
Whc hitvt dipt on hand, and for Bah,
Prime Boston B££F> iu barreli,
feSg 1 I WINES,
Carolina INDIGO, &c. &C.
May 31 rtiw&fiift
- -■•■»- •- -
A Small ifocice of
CAMBRICS,
Fo Stile ■, by.
N. & J. FRAZIER,
N<k 9J, SoUth FrOnt-Slrcet.
June 18 2\V*ta~V '
" ■ M-. ... 1 I r. u.. ... . i
F 0 R SA L E,
A very Valuable Eft ate;
Called riV tttl nh am, muwc I%#.
fcownlhip of Upper Defbyi anil county of Delgwv
* 1-2 miles fiotn Philadelphia, and half a mile from ;
.new Weflerh road 1 containing 136 acres of ext*;llei',tiiti
45 of which are ge»d watered meadow, 90 tVs priirv « hoji*
land, and the reft arable of the firft quality. There are
on tile premlfes a good two story brick house, with 4 rooms
on a fiortr, and cellars ilnder the whole, with a ptivYip-wr!l
of excellent in front; a large frame barb, lul.Vs,
ahd other convenient builtlilrtgg ; a smoke-house and (tone,
spring-house ; two good apple orchards, and one of peach
es. The fields are all ih clciver, except those immediately
under tillage, arid are so laid out as to have the advantage
of water in each of them, which renders it peculiarly con*
venient for grazing.
The filiation is plcafant and health;', and from the high
eultivntibtj of the land, the good.neighbourhood, and thfi
Vicinity to the city, jt is very fuitabie far a gentleman'*
country feat.
The foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Herman,
deceased, and offered for sale by
Mordecai Lewis,
OA. 9. eo.~] Surviving Executor.
China Goods.
TH E Ship Atlantic-, Silas S'-tvaine t Cotntnanncj*f
'from Canton, will commence the- discharge of httf
cargo to-morrow morning at WulnuNftteet wharfl!
Co nfifiing of
Yellow and white Nankeens of excellent quality
Perlian Tafietics, black and coloured
Lu firings, do: do.
Sattins black of various qualities
Sewirieiilks in alTortcd colour!
Vermillion In boxes
Caflia in chefls
Quicksilver in jars
Soh® a,
SOUCHONG,
HYSON SKIN, « a „
Young hyson } I'rein leas.
BEST HYSON,
IMPERIAL, J'
CHINA WAREj ornartiental, with Table ahd "fel
Sets generally aflbrted.
WHITE SUCSA.RS, and a quantity of
First quality Bengal SALT PETRE.
For Sale -ty
Philip Nicklin & Co.
April 8i t.th&s
PROPOSALS,
By BIOREN Ss* MAD AN,
For publifeing by Subscription, that celebrated Work,
Godwin's Political JuftiCe.
fidm the lift London Edition*
T: t. a m j:
t. It will be publilhed itt. tw& large volumes, duodecimo*
U. Price to Stlbfttibers, two doilarsj handsomely bound,
to be paid ufl delivery of the work,
HI. As feea a»a number bf Subfcrll>?rs appear, fufß»
cient to defray the expence, if shall be put to prtfs.
iV. The names of the SubfcHbers (hall be prefixed.
The follow ilia; Character of this Work
it ettraiftcd ftom the" Monthly Review, p. 311, 31a, sos
March, 1793.
" We have rid fniatl degree of pleasure in announcing
thd present work to ouf readers ; as one whi.th from tba
freedom of its enquiry, the gtaridetir of its vie W», and the
fortitude of its principle*, is eminently defetving of atten
tion. By this culoglum, we would by no means be under
stood to fubferibe to all the principles which these volumes
contain. Knowledge is not yet arrived at that degree of
Certainty which is requisite, for any two men to think a
like on all fuhje<fts; neither has language attained
firtent accuracy, which can enable them to convey their
thoughts, even when they do thinkalike, in a mannerper
-1 fe&ly corredt and intelligible to both. These difficulties
are only to be overcome by a patient, incessant, and bene
volent inveftigatien.
" Many of the opinions which this Work contains, are
bold', some of them are novel; and some doubtless are er
roneous :—but that Which ought to endear it even to those
whose principles it may offend, is the strength of argu
ment adduced in it to proife, that peace and order most ef
fectually promote thehappinefs after which political re
formers are parting ; —that as the prbgrefs of knowledge
is gradual, political reform ought not to be precipitate ; —
and that convulsiVe violence is dangerous not only to indi
viduals (for that rcfult comparatively would be of smalt
account) but to the general cause of truth. It ii the op
posite of this principle that infpirti the enemies.of politic
al enquiry with so much terror 5 it is the Tuppofition that
change must inevitably be attended by the turbslence and
injustice of commotion; and that innovation cannot be
made without the intervention df evils more deftru&ivc
than thole which ate intended to be reformed. Under the
cor.vidion of this philanthropic fentlment, of calm and
gradual reform, (which in its proper place he has fully il- 1
luftratfcd) Mr. Godwin proceeds withont scruple firft to en
quire into present evil, through its effc&tial branches, and
next to demonflrate future good.
'' Dividing his work into eight books, and making I-he
IMPORTANCE Of POLITICAL INSTITCTIONS the fubjeA of
the firft, he begins by an attempt to prove th/ omnipo
tence of government ovet the moral habits of mankind ;
and that on these moral habits their wisdom, virtue and
felicity depend/'
£5" Subscriptions received by the publishers at their
Printing Ofisce, back *f No. 77 Dock street, Philadelphi*.
junc 18 Jiwepim
[VOT.UMS. X.PRICES CURRE NT.
Philadelphia, July L.
I ———
PER QUANTITY DOLLARS AT ICO CENT®.
Dolls. Cu. Dolls' Cfs.
-Anchors, pr. lb. per lb. IS
Allum, F.n*lifh,pr cwt 7 Oil, linseed, per gall. lIJ
Ditto, Roch, pr lb. II Olive,
AJhes, pot, per ton, 17° ditto, per cafe, 9
- Pearl, IJO Sweet, te/I, in
Arrack, per gallon, si'J I ', P" *>° x > 1°
■Bacon, Shoulder,pr* lb. ditto bajkets, IS
Hams, 13 bottle!, 7
Brandt, common, I 60 Spermaceti pr gdll 1 06
Coniac, 167 a S Train, per bbl. 18
Braziletto, per ton, j2 34 Whale, per gal. 45
Bricle, per M. 7 P ' rt "PP r '"ft* "7 3°
'Bread, Jbip, per cu,t. 6 London,per dm. 2JO
Ditto, pilot "*» American do. bott.
Ditto, small -water incl. S
per keg, 90 Pitch, per bbl. 3 JO
Seer, American, in bot- Port, Burlington, per
ties, per dozen, bot- barrel, 19 to SO
ties included, 160 Lower county, 19
Ditto, per barrel, 6 Carolina, t6
Boards,Cedar,perMfeet 30 Peat, Albany, pr bujh. 93
Heart, 30 Pepper, per lb. j8
Neu> England, s6 80 Pimento, 14
Oak, 36 Raiftns, beflpn leg 9
Merchantable pine, s8 Ditto per jar, J
Sap, do. 18 Ditto per box J
Mahogany,pr.foot Rice, per cwt. J JO
The above are the Jballop R'Ji n per barrel J JO
prices, for the yard Rum, Jamaica, pr gal. I 7 J
price price, add I dol- .iatigua I J 4
lar, 33 cents, fr M- Windward I 40
.Brimstone in rolls, per ——Barbados 1 33
t ,j». S6 J Country, N. E. 1
Beef, 80/ ion, per bll. 13 al6 Saltpetre, per cwt. JO
Country, ditto 14 Saffafrecs, per ton
Frefb, cwt. Jto 8 ditto, 60
Butter pel- lb. IJ ■Steel, German, per lb. 14
in kegs 14 —Englfb,hlijl.pr cwt. IS 24
Candles Sperm, per lb. J3 —American, per ton 133 33
■ Wax —Crowley'r,pr faggot
Myrtle IVax ' SO Snake root, per lb. 3 J
Mould tallow 18 to 19 Soap, brown per lb. IS
Dipped 15 —White 14
Cbeefe, En%lijb,per Ih. s8 —Cajlile SS
Country II al3 Starch 16
Chocolate *5 Snuff, pr do% bottle
Cinnamon 66 Spermaceti refined pr Us.
Cloves 1 .50 Sail cloth, Engliji. No.
Cocoa, her trust. 18 I, per yard, 33
Coffee, per lb. SJ to s8 80/lon, No. I, do. 30
Coal, per bushel, 4° ——— No. 2, do.
Copperas, per cwt. 3 Sugar, lump, per lb. l{
■ Cordage, American, per —Loaf, finale res. »7
out. 16 a l 8 ■ "Ditto double ditto
Cotton, per lb. J3«• 40 Havannah, white »0
Currants 1° ——Ditto brown 16
Duck, Ruffa, per piece, 18 —Mufccmadop.cwt.llal<i 67
Ravens II JO Eajl India, pr.
Dutch Sail Duck *4 14 66
Feathers, per lb. 60 Sp. Turpentine pr gall. 66
■ Flax, ditto II Salt, allum, pr bujlell 66
Flaxfeei, per bushel 33 —Liverpool j6
Flour, Sup. per barrel II JO —Cadiz to
Common, II —Li/bo* 63
. Bur middlings, heft, 8 JO Ship building IV. 0.
Meal, Irdian 4JO frames per ton SS 67
—ditto Rye, 6 Ditto Live Oak, s6
Ship fluff per cwt. 3 33 Do. Red Cedar pr foot
Fullic per ton, S J Shingleilt inches, pr
Gin, Holland per cafe, 7JO M- 4
Do. per gall. I 93 DiHo »/"' \ -
Glue, per cwt. Ditto feet dressed 16
Ginger,whiter ace,perewt 18 Staves, pipe pr 1000, 60
Ditto, common 16 wbiU-oakbogsbcai 4J 33
F.itto, ground S4 R ' d <" 1 *"* 28
Ginseng, per lb. 30 Leogan 26 33
Gunpnoder, cannon,per Barrel s8
qr. caji, S3 Heading 44
Ditto, fine glazed, s8 Skins Otter, bell pr piece 333
'Grain,WbcatprbujilJOal —Minks s6
Rye, I —Fox, grey 40 to J 4
Oats, 60 —Ditto red I SO
—Indian Corn, 93 —Martins JO
Barley, -X SO —Fi tiers , J 7
ieflfielled pr.lb. —Bears 3
Buckwheat per —Rations 60
bushel, 75 —Mujk-rats, 37
Hams, pr. lb. 13 —Beaver, per lb. 1 6s
Hemp, imported, per —Deer, in hair 30
ton, 300 Tar, N. Jerf. 14 gall.
American, per lb. 10 per bbl.
Herrings, per bbl. 6 > —Carolina, 34 gall. *
Hides, raw pr. lb. 8 *><) Turpentine, per bbl. 3SO
Hops, 9 Tobacco, y. River hefl
Hojbead hoops per M. 30 100 lb. 6a6 33
Indigo,
French per lb. I -671 inferior 7
Carolina, I ° U «
Irons, fadp:r ton 133 33 Rappahannock 7
•Iron, caflings pes not. 4 Colored Maryland J
' —Pennfylv.barfcarcellT, 33 Dark, 4
Ruff, a per ton 97 Long-leaf
Jpjcr 3 2 Eajlern Shore
S/vrf, 224 33 Carolina ne-w 5 33
Nail rods, ISO/o 116 67 oW 6 67
•funk per cwt. J Tea Hyson, per lb. Ito 1
Lard, bogs per lb. t 3 —Hyson Jiin, 67
Lead in pigs, per ewt. J33 —Souchong, I<sl 13
<V> bart, 7 —Congo,
—Bohea, ' 3J
rc Tallow, rtjinedy per lb. 14
Leather, foalpfr lb. SS Tin, per box l 6 JO
Lignum vile per ton, 24 Verdigreafe, per lb. 89
•Logwood, 40 Vermillion, ao.
Mace, per lb. II Varnijh, per gallon,
Mackarr!, bej! per bbl. II Wax, Bees, per lb. 33
feeond quality, 8 Whale-bone, long,pr to. IS
Madder, bejt per lb. SO IVine, Madeira pr p. ss6
Marble wrought pr foot 60 Lisbon, IS6
Mast (pars ditto 60 Teneriffe,prgal. 70
Mclajes, per gall. 60 Fayal, 6 J
Mustard, per lb. Port per pipe 133 33
-flour,-in bottles. Do. in bott.pr dm
per dozen, ISO Claret, t percajk 40/s JO
Ji'ails, Sd, tad, lid, Sherry, i>ergallon I Jo
and tod, per ib. 13 Malaga, 84
Vessels that fail fact, quid sale.
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
On London, at 30 days, per X-ioo fter).
at 60 days, 46j
at 90 days, 161 1 16s l-s
Amsterdam, 60 days, per guilder, 4 s
■ 90 days, 40
By an Artifl rtfident at Mr. Oellers's Hotel,
miniature likenesses
Ap.E taken and executed in that elegan' and deHeste !
stile, which isfo neoeffary to render a Miniature Pic
ture an interefl.i;ig jewel.
lie will warrant a (Irong and indifpntahle refrm
tljncej and he tike. Ae liberty to lay before the public
ox this place hii mofl carneft intention to deserve their pa
tronage by his best endeavors to please.
N. B. Specimens are to bcleen.
Ma y 12. S
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE tmi'ED STATES.
Mr. Fenno,
The power of pardoning is veiled In the Gover
nor of Pennsylvania in the fame ample and extensive
manner, 2s in England, it is exercised by the king
of Great-Britain. The ninth fe&ion of the Con
stitution, on the powers of the Executive Magi
llrate, enabks the Governor "to remit fines and
forfeituies, and grant reprieves and pardons, ex
cept in cases of impeachment." The latter part
of this clause has indeed introduced a difference,
where an impeachment takes place by the popular
branch of government ; for, it has been generally
supposed in England, though a pardon cannot be
pleaded in bar or hindrance of an impeachment, tha
the king may pardon the fcntcnce. In Pennsylva
nia, by the express litter of the conllitution, the
law isotherwife. -But with refpe£t to Courts of juf
tics, the Englilh prerogative has not lodged great
er powers in the king, on the fubjeft of pardoning
crimes, and remitting fines and forfeitures, than the
constitution has lodged in the Governor of -Penn
sylvania. - u
If we are warranted in this position ; and any
doubts (hould arise touching the power of the Go
vernor, to dispense with the penalty in any inftanee ;
an appeal to the law would be highly proper for a
solution of the question. Let it be supposed, for
example, wc were desirous oi deciding the point
"in what cases the Governor may release or discharge
a recognizance" ; I apprehend we (hall find, both
onptiticiple and authority, that it may be legally
done, hi all cases, except where it is taken at the
request, and upon the complaint of the party
The reftriflion on prerogative mentioned by Brax
ton—" non pofterit Rex Gratiam facere cum In
juria et Damno aliorum ; quod antem alienum eft,
dare non poteft per fuam Gratiam"—is eonfonant
to the foyndeft principles of reason and jultiec. But
the difficulty lies id discerning the true extent and
application of the remark.
It is admitted as a general rule, that where an
inlerefl is vefled in the party, as in the cafe of bring
ing a popular or qui tarn action, the Executive can
not release the penalty, or pardon the defendant;
because, quod alienum eft, dare non poteft per fu
am gratiam. Upon a limilar ground, it is under
stood, a penalty once actually veiled, by Conviction,
in the party grieved, cannot be discharged. But,
it is not so easy to point out the degree, or kind of
interejly which thus limits the exercise of theexecu<
tive authority. We (hall however attempt to draw
the line, and examine the question, both on princi
ple and authority.
The great diftindlion on the fubjeft appears to
be this—Where surety for the peace is taken by a
magistrate ex officio, 01 is ordered by a Court, as
pari of the sentence, the recognizances in thefecafes,
may be discharged even before forfeitures. But
where a recognizance is taken at the requett and
upon the complaint of the party, it is otherwjfe.
It|i» acknowieged on all hands, that any recogniz
ance may be released after it is broken, and the debt
thereby SOTotmeVy reflcJ In tUs cuhiiu'uiiwedHli.— ~
In wliich cafe we may observe, the prosecutor is as
deeply interefled in the business as he' was before the
Forfeiture, in as much as compelling -the wrong
doerto makefatisfa£lion by the aflual payment of
the forfeiture to the public, is the only means of
affording him that prote&ion, which hefeeks by an
appeal to the laws of his country.
If a recognizance be taken npon the complaint of
tie party, it is certain, in this cafe, that before the
condition broken, the executive cannot discharge
ft ; because the party has an inter'efl in it—his per
fonalfafety depends, upon it, 'But if the offender
Ihould forfeit his recognizance by an aflual ajfault
upon the prosecutor, the debt may then be released,
tho' it is evident, the profecufcr has become more
deeply interefled in the butlnefs than he was before the
breach of the condition. The true reason there
fore why a release will not discharge a recogniz
ance, is not the prosecutor'« having an interefl in the
event, but his being a party to the eriginal tranfac
lion, and that the debt in thefirjl injlance was creat
ed at his requell, and for his sole use and perfonnl
fafety ; for, the moment a forfeiture is incurred, the
nature of the <lebt is changed—-it becomes wholly
veiled in the public, and the executive may dispose
of it, as hethinks proper, however interefled the pro
secutor may be in the payment of the penalty,
j In all cases where a recognizance is taken pith
' out the complaint of the party, it is a debt created
without hi* aft or interference 5 and in such cafe, he
: can no more be said to have an interefl in it, than
I where a fine is imposed by the court without his con
| fenrt, which there is no doubt the executive may re
mit. Before bringing a qui tarn a&ion, the viola
tion of the law may be pardoned—it is the aSual
commencement of the suit that veils an interell in the
informer, which cannot be released. Upon the
fame principle there must be the a 9 of the party
applying for surety, to veil a similar interell in him.
It is worthy of remark here, that the books which
treat on this fubjeft, uniformly mention the cases
of the informer and the recognizance together, ta
illustrate the position, "that the king cannot dis
charge an interell veiled in the fubjeftwhich
fumiQies a pretty Itrong prefumptian, that it is the
aft of the party that veils the interefl in both cases—
in the one by bringing the suit—in the other,by ma
king the complaint.
It is true, it is laid (sown in the "books, in gene
ral terms, " that the king cannot pardon a recog
nizance for the peace before it is forfeited." But
thi;) (hould be undcrllood of recognizances, taken
in the usual and general course of business ; which
■everybody knows, is on the complaint of a particu
lar person to keep the peace towards him. And
tho'it be the prafticein such cafe, to insert in the
recognizance, 44 and towards all other •persons,"
j yet it is by no means a neceflary part of the recog
nizance. Sir Edward Coke seems to insinuate a
diltinftion, where the recognizance is to keep the
pease towards another by name ; and observes that
in such cafe, the king cannot discharge it before the
peace is broken. As recognizances to keep the
peace, are generally taken on the complaint of an in
dividual for the explicit purpose of protesting him
ly name in the t (cognizance; we cannot aroid think
ing the fhou! ! be nn aa corrobora
ting the idea now eimtenSed tor.
If.the executive hath power to pardon the foun
dation, it '..ems reasonable to aQert, tiiat he can
pardon every thing depending thereon, or proceed
ing from it. When fin ely for keeping the peace is
deemed by she court necessary for the preservation
of good order, it must be confidcrjed rss the effect,
or consequence of the criminal conduct of the par
ty; and therefore within the reach of the pardon
ing power, equally with the crime, of which he a
conviifted.
To fay the executive can pardon one part of the
sentence only, is a dodlrine pirifeftly novel, and is a
limitation on the pardoning power, not to be found
in the books, unless in some special cases, particu
larly on acts of parliament—and the do£hine, in
theprefent in [lance might lead to very ferioue con
sequences.
It is a fact as notorious, as it is melancholy,that
the most usual objects ps the criminal jurifdi&ion
of courts, ara the poor and friendlels, who have
generally made themselves so by their vices. To
require persons of this description to give surety to
keep Hhe peace, is to require impossibilities. ilf
courts therefore were to adopt the practice of or
dering criminals convidt, to procure bail for their
good behaviour and keeping the peace, the pardon
ing power might be extremely impaired, as the mis
erable wretches would (till be .kept in cultody for
want of sureties.
With refpeii to releasing a recognizance taken
by a magiilrate ex officio, or that has been ordered
by a court as pan of the sentence, the legcil ejfeirl of
such discharge, agreeably to the principles hete da
ted, must be, to prevent an arrest and demand of
sureties for the fame cause ; just as a pardon -will
-operate it: other cases. And as the courts do not
require surety from offenders,without good reasons,
which -commonly occur in the course of the trial,
the prudence of the executive will naturally suggest
the propriety, of not rashly releasing recognizances
for the prefeivation of the peace and order of so
ciety, even in those cases, where he may think pro
per to pardon the rejl sf the sentence.
In support of the preceding observations, we
(hall refer to two authorities ; the one extracted
from an abridgment, <o which more weight is due,
than to any other compilation of the like natute —
the other, from the very oracle of the law.
" After a recognizance is forfeited, the king
may pardon the forfeiture ; but he cannot release
the condition before it is broken ; becanfe the party
at zvhofe complaint it mas taken., has an interest in
the condition."*
The statute Weflmr, 2. chap. io. was made to
prevent trefpsflcs in parks and fifh ponds—and in
cafe of recovery in an adtion founded upon the sta
tute, the trefpafler is not only to pay heavy dama
ges, but to fuffer three years imprisonment—and at
the expiration of the imprisonment, is to make ran
som to the king, to find sureties that he will not af
terwards committbe like offence, and for want of such
sureties, he is to abjure the realm.
Even in a civil a&ion, founded upon this statute,
the king may not only remit the fnie, but by par
don, discharge the defeadant, Trtffn that part of the
~jti&gmenr,T3\iX requires him to givefureties, or to ab
jnre the-realm.f
HAMBDEN.
Hills -of Berks County, June 24.
* Broke's abridgmeht, recognizance, pi. 22.id-
Chart. de pa. 3 pi. 24.
;f Sir Edward Coke's 2 Tuft. 200. 3 id. 171.
For t.he Benefit of
Mr. Wells, Box-Book-Keeper.
New Theatre.
Lafi night this season of the company*sper
forming.
On FRIDAY EVENING, July 1,
Will be prefdnted, a Comedy, called
TheDESERTED Daughter
[Writtenby Thomas Holckoft, author of the Road to
Ruin, See. See.
A* performiugat Cove.it Garden Thettre, London, with u
niverfalapplaufe.
Mordent, Mr. Green.
Cheveril, Mr. Moreton.
Lennox, Mi. Marlhall.
Item, Mr. Francis.
Grime, 3#r. Bcete.
Clement, Mr. Warrell, job.
Donald, Mr. Bates.
Joanna, Mrs. Marshall.
Mrs. Sarfnet, Mrs.-Francis.
Mrs. Enfield* Mrs.Solomon.
Betty, Mrs Do&or.
Lady Ann, "Mrs. Shaw.
TSnd of the Tragedy,
A Concerto on the French Horn,
By Monsieur ROSIER, being his ad performance in
this country.
To which will be added, (not performed this season) an
OPERA, in two ads, called
Rofina.
JWith the-original Overture and Accompaniments,composed
.by Shield.]
Belville, Mr. MarHiall.
Belville, Mr'. Parley, jun.
William, Mr. Fiancis.
Rustic, Mr. Warreli.
id Irifinman, Mr. Green.
ad jrifamen, Mr. BlifTetrt,
Rofina, K Mrs, Warreli.
Dorcas, Mrs. Bates.
Plwebe, Mrs. Green.
BOX, One Dollar—PlT, Three-Fourths of a Dollar—
aodGALLERY, Haifa Dollar.
•No money or tickets to be ieturned ; nor any person, on
any account whatsoever, admitted behind the scenes.
Ladies and Gentlemen arc requested to fend their servants
to keep places a quarter before five o'clock, and order them
.is soon as the company is seated, to withdraw as they can
not, on any account, be permitted to remain.
Places for the Boxes to be taken of Mr. Wills, at the
Front of the Theatre.
VIVAT RESPUBIICA
A special meeting of
the American Philofopbical Society
WILL be held at their Hall NEXT FRIDAY EVENING
at s o'clock.
Ab the occasion of this meeting is mournfully interest-
all the members now in the city are requested to at
tend. By order of thi Vice Presidents,
ROBERT PATTERSON, Sec'y.
June 18 tf
AN ACT
Making further provision -relative to the revenut
. _ Cutters.
BE it enacted by the Senate and House of Repre-
Jentatives of the United States, in Congress af~
J'embled, That from and after the firft day of May,in
the present year, there be aHowed, in lieu of the
compensation now established, to the master of each
revenue cutter, fifty dollars per month ; to each
firft mate, thirty five dollars per month ; to each
second mate, thirty dollars per munth ; to each
third mate, twenty-five dollars per month ; and to
each Mariner, not exceeding twenty dollars per
month ; to be paid by the collectors of the revenue,
who (hall be designated for that pu*pofe. ,t
See. 2. And be it further tnacied, That ell
penalties, fines, and forfeitures which may be incur
red under the impost laws of the United States, and
recovered in confcqtience of information given by
any officers of a revenue cutter, shall, after deduc
ing all proper colts and charges, be difpofedof, as
follows-: One fourth j>art shall be for the use of
the United States, and be paid into the treasury
thereof ; one fourth part for the officers of the
eufl.»ms,to be dillributed in the manner now pro
vided, relative to that part of the forfeitures they
are now entitled to 4 and the remainder thereof, to
the officers of -fttch cutter, to be divided among
them, in proportion to their pay.
Sec. 3. -And be it further eaaded, That the
President of the United States be, and he hereby /
is authorized to cause other revenue cutters to be
buijtorpurchafed, in lieu of such as ate or shall,
from time to time, become unfit for further fervice {
the expense whereof, as well a3 all future expenses
of building, purchasing or repairing revenue cut
ters, shall be paid out of the prodn& of the duties
goods, wares and merchandize, 'imported into
the United Stales, and on the tennage of fhtps or
vcffels.
See. 4. And be it farther etiaScd, That the
President of the United States be, and he is hereby
authorized,to caufcifueh ievenu<ctittcrt as ihall/frota
time to time, beeome unfit for service, to be fold
at public au&ion, and the proceeds offuch Tales to
be paid into the treafnry of the United States.
Sec. J. And Jje .it Jurther enaP.cd, "That fa
much of this aft as fixes the compensation of the
officers and men on board the said cutters, Aall be,
and remain in force, for the terra of one year, and
from thence to the end of the next session of Con
gress thereafter, and no longer.
Jonathan Dayton, Speaker of the House
of Representatives.
John Adams, Vice-Prefidcnl of the United
.States, and President of the Senate.
Approved—May 6th, 1796.
Go.' Washington, President of (he United Stater.
The Old Soldiers
OFfhe Pennfylvanio lineof the ermy (both -officers and
privates) are inform d that there appears igSiiaAlafTa
fachufetts and Coonedlicut papers a design to take frriin them
nearly all their lauds over the Allegheny. tLonjr publication
have appeared at StocLbridge and Hartford, felting up the
Conne&icut claijn (though extinjjuiftied by tl>« decifioo it
Trenton) foas to take the following lands given by PenafyU
vania to the army.
-DONATION J, AJJJBS.
Diftriil Mo. t, about i-4jclatmcd as Connecticut's
Do. No t. The whole claimed as ditto.
Do. No. 3. The whole elaimed as ditto.
Do. No. 4. Thewhole claimed ai ditto.
Do. No. 5. The whole claimed aj ditto. 1
Do. No. 6. The whole claimed as ditto.
Do. No. 7. The whole claimed as ditto.
Do. No. 8. The whole claimed as ditto.
Do. .No. 9, The whole claimed as ditto.
Do. No 1o! he whole claimed as,di!to.
The Court of Commiflioneis was a regular tonjlituted autho
rity—There were among them two extern -members— They
were all five unanimous. 'What (hould be thought of the Cun
nefticut claimants by every friend to the peace and the laws of
this country. ?
J"'y '» tt
Bank of North-America,
J a b '» 1796.
AT a meeting of the Directors, a Dividend was dtclarcd
of six p»k cent, for the last half yea/, which will
be paau to the Stockholders anytime afier the 10th inflaat.
By Older of the Board,
$r° JOHfl NIXON, President.
A ftatefl Meeting of the Pennsyl
vania Society for piomotin/r the ABOLITIONof SLAVERY
&( v &c ' & Q C - , v ' i ", bc h, ; ld »< 'he ufuaJ plaoe, on the fourth
initant, at 8 o clock m the evening.
HEN J AMU? KITE>, Secretary.
July I. '
Sugars for sale at Fox s Ayaion-room.
At 3 o'clock To,morrow afternoon,
Will be fold by Aofiion, for approved Notes at 60 days,
6ohhds.primeSt.CroixSugar.
EDWARD FOX, Au&ioneer.
Jun« 30.
Lottery
FIR raifiag fix thousand fix hundred and fixty-feve#
dollars and'fifty cents, by a deduaion of fifteen per
cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a prize, viz.
I Prize of 5000 dollar, it dollars ' 5000
1 1000 iooo
1 S OO jco
5 100 loco
30 I 0" 2CCO
50 4 ' JO
ao ° JOOO
,00 ° j 10 *0,000
J Last drawn numbers of 1009 dollars each, 5000
4018 Blanksl 44,4J0
6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44,450
By order of the Dire&ors of the Society for eftab'lifh
mgUfeful Manufactures, the fuperintendants of the Pat
erfon Lottery hive requested the Managers to offer the
foTegoing Ssheme to the public, and have dire&ed them
to refund the money to thufe perfoos who have purchafcd
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
in this Lottery.
Ihe lottery has aAually commenced drawing, and will
continue until finifted. A lift of the Blanks and Prize*
may be seen at the office ot William Blackburn, No. 64
foutli Second street, who will give information where tick
ets may be procured.
Dated this 17th day of June, 1796.
7■ N CUMMING,
JACOB R. HAR.DENBERG, £ Manager*.
"JONATHAN RHEA, S
Jane 18Philadelphia.,
FRIDAY EVENING, Jolt I, 1796.
address*
The Volumes of this Gazette are made up half
_early the present Number commences the Tenth,
which will be completed oa the lall of Decembet
Two years and an half have elapsed ftnee the Ga
zette of the United States was published daily. The
patronage it has receieved-, is equal, it is believed,
to that of any othsr daily publication, for the fame
1 period, and merits the Editor's grateful acknow
ledgements. Subscribers are continually added to
the lift ; and its advertising patrons encreafe 4 they
will please :o accept of sincere thanks for their li
berality. .
A full fapply of new Types is hourly expected
When received, the Gazette lhall appear in a
new dress. _ , _ .
As it is the determination of the Editor to em
brace Commercial obje&s more fully than hereto
fore, a Price Current will be published weekly ; as
correct as the present very fluctuating state of mar
kets will admit. Marine information, local and ge
netal, will be given extensively. Advertisements
will be promptly and conspicuously publilhed, at 50
Cents a square for the firft insertion, ar.d *5 cents
for every continuation.
Tlie propriety of the addition this day made to
the title of the Paper we hope will b«judified by ex
perience, in such a proportional participation of the
public favor, as exeitions may merit.
The price of this Gazette is eight dollars a year.
Subfcribera whole paper* are sent per pod are char
ged ona dollar yearly in addition for enelofing and
dire&ing. Six months fubfeription to be paid in
advance.
obw. th* milittn of the city and I
liberties of Philadelphia arc rrqnefted to meet atthe
Statehoufe on Monday next, the 4th July, at 11
o'clock precisely, to proceed from thence t* pay
their'compliments to the President of the United
-States, and to the governor of the State, on the
-aoniverfary of American Independence.
JOSIAH HARMAR, Adjutant General.
Philadelphia, June 30th, 1796.
A report was circulated last evening that the .
President of U.S. was arrived in town. This is
not true, nor is there any foundation for the re
port that he is expected in a few days. And it is
difficult o assign any just reafonfor it. As the
Hufbandmau said of the Devil who sowed Tares a-
Tnong the wheat, it may befaid of thisfetch of a cer
tain Junto —■" An Enemy hath donethis."
ABSTRACT Of the BILL
'For legulatingth'e conveyance of prii ted votes, pro
ceedings in Parliament, and printed news-papers,
'by the.pod, in Great Britain.
The preamble recites, that there is reason to he
-ttlt'velfiai wiTtrngs OWJ.IL iltljinu. > r -.
under theformof news-papers, to the detriment of
the revenue, and that from the {great increase of
their numbers it has becoirje inipoffiMe to examine
them within the space allotted. The bill repeals
in consequence all the exifcing privileges of franking
news-papers, &c.
It enadts, that every person (hall have the pow
er of fending newfpapeis, which (hall be dire'&edon
the part of the'margin adjoining the title, date and
flump, and signed with the nr.me, asd place of a
bode of the peifon transmitting the fame. The
direction to be repeated 0(1 the cover, which « to
be opened at the ends, attd the-.paper to be put into
the pott-office, two hours before the-time appoint
ed for the departure of the mails.
Dealers to be allowed to fend news-papers doty
free, on entering into a recognizance, binding each
in the Turn of fifty pounds not to inclose any thing
■in writing or cypher his name and residence as a
further security, being either written or printed on
the cover.
The pcrfons employed St the Stamp-Office are en
joined to affix the damp adjoininng conveniently to
atw-Jote and (iilt of the novsl-^apers.
The Post-Master, or his servants, are empowered
to examine every news-paper, and to fee that it
contains no writing. A penalty of Eve ponnds is
imposed on every person so employed, on proof of
iheir detaining or injuring the news-papers.
Every news-piper -unftampt, or containing any
■writing or cypher, to be charged according to the
■ufualrate of Every dealer trespassing a -
gainst this regulation to forfeit his recognizance as
above dated; every other perfoas twenty pounds.
Letters direffed to memberi of Parliament, at
the placc of their residence, to be exempted as here
tofore.
Nothing in this aftattachesto irwf-paper passing
between Great-Britain and Irelanl.
BY THIS DAY's MAILS.
NEW-YORK, June 3 o.
MARINE REGISTER.
Arrived at this Pott
Brig Patty, Snow, St- Bartholomews 16
John, Webb, Chaiiefton 7
Sloop Mary, , PKlsdelphia 3
Sally, Woodward, Trinidad 25
Capt. Woodward spoke the BritiA frigate Cleo
patra, off Block-lfland.
The reader will observe in some <f the papers
of this city, extracts from a certain Journal of a
private Citizen, attempting to prove he Fever of
last fommcrto have been taken from vsfrls arriving
from the Weft-Indira. Truth is alw.ys a defira
ble thing; but error in the present cai is a fatal
evil, i: will appear, from papers and documents
©* that fiibjeft now publilhed and publishing,
that there is not even a (hadow of gro\ n( l for the
opinion, that the difsafe, was introduceiand prop
agated by iafettion.
On the other hand, it will appear to )e cleerly
demonftiattd to have been produced by he pecu
liar lcalon, the filth of the city, and the negligence
ami irr prudence of tire people.
To be 011 our guirj a_;aintt infe&ion, 11 wife
anj proper { btlt t« attempt to make the citizens
believe the yellow is not and cannot be gener
ated in thiscity> is a mod pernicious thing. The
fame disease has appeared in this city four or five
seasons pad, and will appear whenever the caufis
ooncui —to wit, a fufficient degree of heat and a
fufficient degree of 6lth.
It is of infinite consequence to the health of the
city, for the people to know or be eonvinced that
the healthinefsof the city depends modly on them
feives. If the citizens will not be convinced of
this fail, they may be aflured no vigilance of the
government or the health officer will prote& them
from frequent Epidemics.
Yesterday the brig John, Capt. Webb, arrived
at this port fromCharlefton.
The governor of South Carolina has issued his
proclamation, dated June 20, recommending that
FRIDAY the Bth July, be set a part as a day of
FASTING, HUMILIATION, and PRAY
ER, on account of the late diftrefles of that city.
BOSTON, June IJ.
ARRIVED.
January 23, Arrived schooner Lucy, Holmes,
St. Pierre, Martinique, ill days. Left Stork
from Boston. Spoke a French 20 gun (hip soon
aftei failing.
Schr. Harriot, Godfrey, Falmouth, Jamaica.
Left (loop Peggy, Charleftori, S. C. June 20,
40 leagues fiom Bodon, spoke brig Cyprus, Blake
Z days from Boston, for Hamburg.
June 24, Brig Capt. Stone of Portland,
24 days from the Havanna.
Ship Merchant, of Portland, Captain Fitch Giles
34 days from Kingston, -{Jam.) —Left thsre brig
Sally, capt. Stubbs, of Boston, to fail in a few
days. Spoke Brig Betsey from Jamaica, for N.
Carolina, out 16 days, capt. name Argonat.
On Friday, Brig Afteon, capt, Burnham, from
Philadelphia. Monday, June 20, off Long-Island,
Montok Point, bearing «bout W. by N. was
brought to and boarded by the British (hip Afiilt
ance of 50guns, who after examining his papt-is
and people, informed (he was fr.,m Halifax, on a
cruize, to days out ; the night before, took a Da
nish brig, bound to New-York, on account of hav
ing two different sets of papers on boaid. Two
frigates failed from Halifax, in company with the
Affidance ; and had parted the next day in a fog>
June 21, at 8 a. m. wasbronght to and hoard
ed by the Huflar frigate, of 32 guns, who likewife
examined his papers and people. The 11 ighy be
fore, theyl)oarded a (hip bound to New-York, and
took out five of the people who had not got pro
teflions. The officers of bo-th fhipi behaved po
litely.
June 25, Schooner John, capt. Smith, 30 days
from Dcmarara. Left there, Ship Commerce, Cow
ell, of Boft-on ■; brig , Geyer, of do ;fchoon
er , Eathearn,-of do 4 fchr. Nancy, Derby,
of do - ; ship Hannah, Wait, of do ; capt. Laugh
ton, in a (hip from Charleftown ; capt. Lincoln,
of jfJkarl*Ann U ■■* ' /vf
Baltimore.
Same day arrived, fdtr. Sculplon, capt. Carter,
from the Havanna.
Same dty arrived, brig Fox, capt. Hurley, 13
days from Guadaloupe. Left at Petit-Canal, eppt
Wyatt, of Newbury-Port, and capt. Cole of Bos
ton. Ship Zabiah, Burgess, failed in company
with capt. H. for Boston.
Provisions at Guadaloupe plenty sndclveap.
[authentic]
Extract of a letter from a gentleman of Tefpeftabi
lity belonging to this town, now in Paris, dated
A pril •!.
•*' Wonderful to relate, you may purchhfe bills
in Paris on any part of the world (where exchange
is negociatcd) from 7to 18 percent, difcourft. I
(hall leave you toguefshowii happens, that in this
time of dijlrcfs, France has the exchang-ew Irer fa
vor againil every power in the world ; ami telling
the neutral powns (he can do without them—pro
visions are cheaper in any part of France, but espe
cially in Paris, than in any other part of Europe.
They are indeed ■' a wonderful people"—can do
perfeflly well without the Test of the world—have
proved they can live without foreign trade—and ap
pear as proud of the discovery, as a boy who has
solved a difficwlt problem." £ojlon Chronicle.
SALEM, June 24,
Capt. Samuel Lambert, in the brig Hope, ar
rived lad night from the Isle of France, in 85 days
—May to, at tlie Me of Ascension, spoke the
(hip Hamilton, from Bengal for Bodon. The
Belifarius of this port, George Crowninfliield, com
mander, may be expe&ed from the Isle of Bourdon
every day.
Capt. Hardy Ropes, arrived yesterday from St.
Domingo, spoke on the 15th inft. schooner Polly,
of Charleston, from Atix-Cayes, then bound to
Bermuda, (having been captured by the Spencer
(loop of war") for adjudication.
Capt. John Foster, ariived on Wednesday from
Baltimore. On his passage, was boarded by a
: Bermudian privateer, detained <6 hours, and then
permitted to proceed.
An En li(h (hip is cruising between Gay Head
and Block-lilland.
Capt. Hardy Rapes arrived yesterday in 19 days
from the port of St. Domingo, (in the Spanish
part of thelfland of the fame name) fays he heard
nothing of any fleet having arrived in any port of
that Island—He saw a frigate going in as he came
out, but could not tell of what nation she was.
Liverpool Pritcs 'Current—April 29.
Wheat 10 to i ts. perbufhelof 7olbs.wt» Flour
35 to 40s. per barrel—dull sale. Indian corn 3s.
6d alk'd, but no buyers. Barley 2s. 6d to 3s.
pei bushel—vast quantities at market.
iDiJlrifl of Salem and Beverly.
Arrived, June tß—24.
Brig Hope, Lambert, Isle of France
Schr. Betsey, Ropes, St..Domingo
Betsey, Townfendi Anx Cayes
An Englilh (liip is cruising between Gay-head
and Block- Iflaud. 1
DjtriH of Providence—.June 24.
jwarto.
Sloop Lucy, H'allct, Bolton
Rebecca, Hicks, Warren
Hancock, D.ivis, New-York
Lark, Godfrey, ditto.
Aurora, Jackson, St. Croix
Hiram, Earl, Charleston. '
PORTSMOUTH, June 23. .
We are authorized to inform the electors of New-
Ham pfh ire, that the Hon. John S. Sherburne,
Esq. declints being considered as a candidate at
the approaching ele&ion of members to represent
this state in Congress.
Rep»rt also fays, that the Hon. Mr. -Oilman,
another of the present members, will'likewife de- '
cline.
In the courlcof three days, the last week, there 1
were brought into this '.arbor (by veflels belonging
to this and the neighboring towns) Ten Thoufend
Quintals of Filh ! and all flaked in good order.
COOPERSTOWN, June 23. 1
On Saturday last, towards evening, information !
was received that the hon. Wm. Cooper was on his
way to this placc i immediately an escort left the
village on horseback, to attend him tp his home— •
When his carriage had pafied the bridge, he was
welcomed by a double row of citizcns, who teftifi
ed their joy on his arrival by three cheers. Never
was a cliara&er received with a more cordial wel- «
come ; all ranks of people united in manifefting
their approbation of his condutt, thro' a long, an '
arduous and an important session. in the evening '
the judge very obligingly attended his fellow citt
sens, convened at Huntington's inn, and in a con
tife and ermprehenlive manner recited the moll im- ;
portarit events Of the session. During his entrance ,
into Ceoperilown, 16 cannon were fired, and eve- ,
ry appearance of pleafute and fatisfa&ion was ex- 1
hibiied. 1
The citizens of Cherry Valley addrcfled liim, on ■
his pafl'age thro'that town as follows :
To tin Hon. Wm't Cooper. 1
Sir,
ImprcfFed with a high opiniwn ot your exeTtions
of your firm and decided conduct, dilring the im
portant qucftion which has agitated the public
mind'from New Hampshire K> Georgia. it would 4
be unpardonable, in us, not to express o» this oc
calion our highest approbation, and wflrmeit grati
tude. Permit t.9 to fay, that, in aiqiieftion in which
is involved thepeaceand happinefs.a'*not the vefy
existence of our government, all former dillinciions
give place, and private or peifonal considerations: .
cease to operate.
JOSEPH WHITE.
RICHD. EDWARDS.
InTjehalf of the inhabitatus of Cherry Valley.
June i-S.
J 1
R E PL V.
Gentlemen,
The mode in which you bsve exprefied your ap
p&ttsKjsLsx jkjsSSJHBSS 1
•Gty part of the United States, is highly pleasing to
me—and much move so coming fiom the iahabi-,
tants oif Cherry Valley ; as it prefentt to my mind
two very defirablc objects ; the-form the argument
aifamed -in Congress and the final event, will it
fecßis, have n teii3eney to cause a general unanim
ity of Sentiments among the inhabitants of your
flourifliing town, in favor of vhe general govern
ment. And, that my exertions are the cause of cx
tinguifliing former diflentions amoivg us, affords to
me a confoiaiion that -is better felt than expreflcd.
WM, -COOPER.
To joseph White, Richard Edwards, and
other inhabitants of Cherry Valley.
E~xtra& of a letter from the surgeon attending the
child of Mr. Chamberlain, whole cafe was men
tioned in our lad,
" Dear Sir,
■*' 1 have the happinefs'to inform yon, that Mr.
Chamberlain's foil, our patient, is in a likely way to
recover; the wound digests kindly, no inflamma
tory symptoms appear, his fever has subsided, his
appetite is good, and nothing new appears in the
way of his recovery.
I am your fwcere friend,
DAN. FOOT,
Dated at Mr. Chamberlain's, June 19.
Dr. Joseph White.
CHARLESTON, June 22.
In the great >fire of January 15, 1778, the follow
ing lift of houfeit were conformed viz. Currency.
East Bay, D. Houses, 56 Valuedat ,£. 177,425
Broad (Ireet, do. 28 72,700
Elliot-street, do. 51 89,900
Bedoti's alley, do. 13 28,753
Church-Street, do. tj 25,100
Tiadd-flreet, do. 34 73.100
Uunion street, do. 32 30,760
, Chalmer's alley, do. 9 9>s°°
Unity alley, do. 8 8,500
1 Qijecn-ftreet, do. 2 8,000
| Exclusive of kitchens, &c. 252 £•s°'/ >^55
In the yesr 1776, alltUe dwelling houses withifl
. Boundary street, amounted to 1434* a °d were valu
, ed at 2,523,5251. currency.
The late •fires are computed to have consumed,
p in houffs end property, nearly 500,0001. llerling.
Yefltrday arrived fchr. Either, Wells, Savannah,
1 day; sloop Fortune, Johnson, Savannah, I day.
TheSpanifh brig Yorick anchored at Fort John
r fton ye!lerday,in 8 days irom the Havannah.
June 20.
Yeftrrday arrived the brig Principe de la Pa% v
capt. Euflamante, from Havannah, 9 days ; ship
Ophir, Stevens, St. Thomas's 9 days.
A Post-Chaise wanted.
, WANTED immediately to purchase, a (econd-hand
Post-Chaise, with Harness for 2 Horses aud Biafs furniture.
1 It must be in good condition.
1 July 1.
■ Enquire at Ko. 73 South Front Street.
Philadelphia, July 1.
The United States' brig Sophia, failed a feur
days ago irom this port for Europe.—She is to
touch at L!fb >n, sot a short time, and from tlvfnre
proceed to Algiers. We learn that the Jsophia has
on hoard the means of fulfiling the terms of oi.r
Treaty with the Dey and Regency of Algiers, for
which purpole (he was difpatclied by the executive
with Capt. O'Brien on hoard.
arrivals at twjs port.
'Days.
Brig Amiable, Paul, Hav.-.nna 13
Anna, Maffet, Gonaivei 13
Sloop JLauranla, Stewart, St. Croix 11
• Capt. Paul a few days before he made tlve Capes
spoke the Danish brig Den Nye Prove, capt. Han
fen from this port to Hamburgh, out 2 days.
A febooner from Port-au-Prince is arrived at the
Fort.
Ship Old Tom, Duplex, an.! the schooner Eet
fey, M'Cullough, both from this Port arc arrived
at KingttoH.
CLE/, RED.
Ship Four Friends, Smith, Hambtirg
Brig Theodofia, VaeGtie, St. Thomas's
Sally, Bradford, Wafhingtonf N! C'.)
Polly & Betsey, Shaw, Nixontt' 1
Schr. Conception, Borniel, St. Aii'jiitli •
Mary-.ann, Swail, 4.;
Schr.Hannah, Phippen, Hifpani. !a
Sloop Wealthy, Bray, St. John's (N. B.)
STOCKS,
SfxperOnt. ------- - 17/6
Three per Cent . ------ - io/6 ( o
jt per Cent. - - - -- - -- ( J
4i per Cent. - -- -- -- -- T4/4 J £
Deferred Six per Cent. - - - - 15/7 to 3
BANK United Sttites, - - - - 17 pr. ccnt.
Ptmnfylvariia, ----- 30
■ North "Liner ica, - - - - 48 to 50
Insurance Comp. North-Amerioa, 55
———Pennsylvania, 12
Exchange, at 60 days, - - -r6jtei66 2-3
At a meeting of the undernamed judges cf the
•court of common pleas, juflices of the peiice, and
prothonotary bfthe county of Northamptnn, in the
state of Pennsylvania, convened at Bethlehem in
the said county, on the nth June, 1796, 111 con
sequence of a circular letter -of the 57th May last,
from his excellency governor MilHin, on the ftib
jeft of iutrufions 011 land within the territorial
boundaries of this kate, by reje&ed Connedticut
claimants,
Present,
Peter Rhoads, William Henry, and Robert
Trail, Efqrs. JKidges, See. George Breenig, Nicho
las Kern, John Starberd, Philip Riggs, Joh«
Serfafs, Jonas Hatzell, Isaac Shymer, Abraham
Levan, William Latimore, Joh>r Shaw, Henry
Cooper, John Thymer, Jacob ICuntz, Jacob Horn
er, Joseph Horfefield, and HenrySpieing, Efqrs.
» "•
tary See,
The said Peter Rhoads wa? nnanimoufly chosen
chairman, and the said Henry Spreing secretary of
the meeting : And on mdtion of Mr. Trail, the
letter aforefaid was read by the secretary.
it was Hated to the meeting, by William Craig,
Esq. that in travelling through the northern parts
of this county, and within the jurrfdi&ion of the
fame, heheard of a Mr. Stanton, that divers per
sons had been surveying lands" under the Connc£tf
cut claim within the said nojthenr parts of the said
county,
Wiirrerrpon on motion of Mr. Henry, it was
rtfolved, that the chairman be requested, on the
oath of the said William Craig, to the ci.cum
ftritiees, to ifiue his precept to bring she said Stan
on,and fitch other persons as may be able to give
information on the fubjefi, before him, or some,
other magistrate of the county aforefaid, to be ex
amined in the premffes and dealt with according to
law. On motion of Mr. Trail, it was resolved
that a committee of two of the magistrates be nam
ed, who (hall make it their particolar business to go
to the northern boundaries of this county, or other
wise inform tlTeltifelvcs of any intriffiong on the
lands within the commonwealth by Conncdicut
claimants ; and that the chairman name the said
committee : Whereupon the said chairman named
Nicholas Kern, and Jonas Hartzell, Efqrs. the
committee aforefaid, who were agreed to.
And on motion, it was further resolved, that the
fheriff of the county be requested to attend the said
committee, or furnifh an officer for the purpose of
executing any process that may be issued on the
oocafion. Resolved that the proceedings of this
meeting, "be signed by the chairman, attested by
' the secretary and tranfroitted by them to his excel
' lency the governor of the commonwealth of Penn
sylvania.
1 (Signed) PETER RHOADS.
| Attest, H, SPERtNG, Secretary.
Bethlehem, June 14, 1796.
' Hi 9 Excellency Governor Mifflin ;
SIR,
We have it in charge to tranfmrt to your excel
lency the enclosed proceedings of a meeting of a
number of the public officers of the county of
Northampton, in consequence of your, circular let
' ter <if the 27th May last, on the fubjeft of intrus
ions by GonneSicut claimaints on the territory of
Pennsylvania.
' Permit us to afTnre you, that there is a firm dff
pofition in the officers who composed that meeting
to afTert and maintain the authorities of the com
monwealth according to their flations ; that all
legal ways and means will be pursued in fcringinu
v tojuftice those who have or may invade, or violate
the fame ; and that any information which can be
. collected relative to any unlawful intrusions, will be
readily communicated to you.
We have the honor to be. Sir,
1 With due refpedt,
Your Excellency's molt obt. servants.
(Signed) PETER RHOADS,
HENRY SPERING.PROPOS A I. S \
FOR CARRYING ".HE
Mails of the United States,
O.i the following routes- will be received by the Po ft mailer
at Savannah, until the firft dav of Sep!ember nexr.
> 1. From Savannah by Sunbury to Newport Bridge, once a
week
Receive the Mail at Savannah ererv Saturday bv 9 A M, ar
rive at Sunburv by 6 P M, arid at Newport Bridge on Sun
day by 10 A M Returning. Leave Newport Bridge on Sun
day bv 3 P M. and arrive at Sunbury in the evening, and at
Savannah on Monday bv6 P M
2. From Newoort bridge by Darien and Brunfwick to St.
Marv's. once in two weeks.
Receive the Mail at Newport Bridge every other Sunday
noon and arrive at St. Mary's the next Wednefdav by 5P M.
Returning. Leave St. Mary's the next day, Thursday by 8 A
M, and arrive a r Newport Bridgethe next Sunday by 10 A M.
Note 1 If either of the routes are altered bylaw, during the con
tinuance oj tie Contraas, the Contractor is to observe fuc/i alterations
in carrying the marl, and his pa> is to be encreafed or dmihifhed. in
proportion to the distance encreafed or dimini/hed by such alteration.
Note. 2 Jhe Contrafls are to be in operation on the jirjl day of
Gftobcr next, and to continue for four ycirs until the 30th Septem
ber. 800, incluf-e.
N"te 3. ThePqfl fAafler General may alter the times oj arrival
and departure at any time during the continuance of the Contracts, he
frevioufly flipulating an afrjuatecompenfation for any extra expense
that may be occaftaned thmeoy.
Note 4. fifteen-minutes /hall be allowed for opening and closing
tht marl at all offices where no particular time is fpecifica. .
Note 5. For every hour's delay (unavoidable accidents excepted)
in arriving after the times prefer ibed in any contratt, the contractor
fball forfeit one dollar And if the delay continue until the depart
ure of any depending mail, whtreby the mailt defined for such de
fending mail /hall lofeatrtp, the Mntrador fhafl forfeit ten doltors
be deducted from his pay.
JOSEPH HABERSHAM*
Post-Master General.
Civeral Post Office,
Philadelphia, June 28, a 70- taw6w
Fof Sale,
■A LARGE ELEGANT AND WELL EINI3HED
Three-story Brick House,
(The late residence of General Waller Stewart)
"t T7ITH a LOT of GROUND thereunto belonging, ou
V V the weft fide of Third-street, near Union-street
containing in front 32 feet, and in depth too feet, to an
alley leading into Union-street. The house is 32 feetfrofft j
and 50 feet deep ; the several rooms contained in it are
large,- commodious, and completely finiflicd; the two firft
stories are each 13 feet high; there are 20 mahogany
doors in the house ; a geometrical staircase, with mahoga
ny raiU and a good (ky-light. The kitchen is in the cell
ar, wbi&itfTptcioas and convenient, and finifhed with an
oven, stew-holes and pantries, a ferranu' hall and large
wine-cellar adjoining the kitchen, in front of which is an
area in which there is a pump The yard is vaulted.
Communicating with the said building is a neat threc-ftory
brick houfe,-on the nortb fide of Union-street, contain
ing 30 feet fram by »© feet deep; the lower part of which
it at present occupied as a compting-houfo, and the upper
•part divided into well-fini(hed large chambers. This house
tnay at a small expense be converted into a convenient
dwelling : The street door is very handsome, and the front
and back-4iafve Venetian window-lhutters. Adjoining the
last house, npon the lot belonging to the .firft, are erected
hathing-reoim, &e. There are likewise very good coach
hoHfe and stables finifhed equal (or nearly ib) with any in
-the city, on a lot containing on Union street 30 feet, and
in depth on the w»ft fide of said alley 51 feet. There are
good cellars'tinde. the whole of the buiUings, and a wine
room over pa"rt of theft-able, with a hay-loft over the re
mainder. For further particulars enquire of
EDWARU BONSaLL & Co.
At their Office No. 64 Dock-street. l between Walnut & Pear
eo streets.
6th montfi 24th, 1796.
AN HmtttTi —— —
Books and stationary,
Wholesale and Retail, now opened and for Sale by
WILLIAM rOUNG,
Botkfeller, No. 52, Corntr of Second and Chef nut-JlreHs.
AMONG which are Fnolish, "Latin, and Greik
Classics and Dictionariis, Divinity, Law, His
tory, I'RAvaLs, Vovagis, Miscellanies, and the most
ofteemed Novels.
WRITING AND POINTING PAPERS,
from the best manufacturers in Europe, and from his ma
tt ufa&or) on Brandywine, viz.
Imperial,plain and wove flatSmail folio post, plain
Super-royal do. do. Ditto gilt
Roynl do. do. Blofibm paper assorted
Medium do. do. Transparent folio post
Demy do. do. Superfine and common foitfe.
Glazed and hot-pressed folioMarbied papers.
and 4to extra largr'poft coawk papers.
Thick poll in folio dito'do. London brown, afTorted
-Ditto in 4to. ditto do. Hatters' paper
Folio wove post, lined Stainers' paper
"Quarto ditto do. Common brown
Ditto gih do. Patent iheathing
Common fiee folio post Bonnet boards
Ditto quarto, plain Binders' Boards.
'Eolio and quarto post, gilt,
Also, a variety of other Stationary Articles, tit.
Wedgwood and glafa phi!ofophi=»l Ink (Und., well atrnt
ted ; pewter iflk chests of varies flies-; round pewter ink
Hands ; paper, brass, and poHlhed leather ink ftarids for the
pocket. Shining (and and sand boxes, pounce and pounce
boxes, ink and ink powder. Couuung house and pocket pen
knives of the best quality, «ti Lin tablet and memorandum
books. Red and colored wafers, eommon fee, office ditto.
Quills. from half & dollar, to three dollarsper hundred,
lilack lead pencils, mathcmatieaHnftrumenta, Ice. he.
All forts and fi*erof Blank Rooks, ready mide or made
to order. Bank checks, blank bills of exchange and notes of
hand, executed in copperplate, bi Is of lading, manifefts
teamen's articles and journals, Sic. &c.
June 18 aawjw
War-Office of the United States,
May 4th, 1796.
THE following Rules, explanatory of those pnblilhed
the 15th February, 1789, are to be observed by all
persons entitled *0 Lands, in pur-fuince of refolvea of
Congress.
Every certificate of ttre acknowledgment of a deed or
power of attorney, either before a notary public or ottter
magistrate, mull, in addition to what is usual, set forth
that the person making the acknowledgment is known to
the notary or Ather magistrate ; for whieh purpose words
of the following import mull be infertcd in the certificate.
" And I do moreover certify that the feia A B making
this acknowledgment has been for jierfonally
known to me."
If the notary or other magistrate has reason to believe
that he is th j pcrl'on he represents himfelf to be, he Wil
also certi.y it.
Anditthe proof be made by a witr.efsorwitneffcs.h-ior
theymuft fweartol'ome general ftateof their knowledge ol
him, whiek matte* mult be set forth in the certificate ; and
the notary public, or other magistrate, before whom tjt
ackuuwl-dgmen". is naade, mui also set forth that the wit
Be .sor wituelfeshas or have been for upwards of
f.T'Oually known to him.
If a justice of the peace is employed, the clerk of tht
court ol the corporation or county must certify that (uth
per lon is a juflico of the peace ol the county or corpora
tion as tht- cafe way be, and that full faith is due to hi>
ail. a, such. JAME3 M'HENRY,
Sccretarj- of Wjr
I-.ay i»; tj«jn
PROSPECTUS : 1
Of. Cheap aid Elegant Poc.Let Edition of
Se!e>S and Entertaining Novels ;
Or, NoyEnsT J s Pockr t Libr/wy ;
Printed info convenient a Gze that a volume may be
carried in cach pocket without the leal inconvenience ; —
being an agreeable travelling companion, affording amufc
ment in the garden, the field, or the (hady bower, and
forming a valuable collection of Novels and Tales, writ
ten by the mod approved authors, particularly-
Fielding .Sterne j Marmontel Cervantes
Smollet Goldsmith* I Ratcliffe RouHeau
Richardfoit Brookes Hawkefworth LeSage, &c<
To commence with the ift volume of the celebrious no
vel intitled The Mysteries of Udolpho, by the author of
Th«j Romance of the Forest, &c. embellinied with a
beautiful engraved Frontifnicce reprefeuting an interesting
fcenein the above, elegantly gilt, at only 75 cents.
CONDI T lONS.
These f«lc£l Novels shall be printed in handsome oftodeci
-10 pocket volumes, on good type and paper, and with a de
licate new Rourgeoi* type on purpofefc the work, by which
m{*ns the page wlil be uncommonly conipreheflfive; each vo
lume containing in quantity a duodecimo, and sometimes an
o&jvovolume, printed verbatim from theoriginal copies, In
addition to theelegance of the typography, each volume will
be embelliftied with a beautiful engraved frontifpiecc, repre
senting the mell intereiling scene that occurs in the refpeftive
volume.
A volume will be publilhed regularly every ,three weeks
and delivered to fubferibers neatly zne uniformly bound and ,
gilt, at only three-fourths of adoilareach, to be paid upon
delivery. If a fufticient number of f'ubfciiters are procured,
the work will be put to press some time in August, and a vow
lume publiftied every thiee weeks in regular succession. The
encouragersof this work may rely apen every poflible atten
tion being paid to ensure elegance in ihe engravings, neatness
and corre£tnels in the priming, and uniformity in the bind
ing, the whole being done under the immediate lendancy of
the publishers.
Subscribers may withdraw and recommence their fubferip
tions at pleasure, so as to confine iheir choice to as few of the
Novels as they think proper, or extend their colkftion to the
whole that are printed, which will comprise ihofc high
ly approved novsls whick have been damped with universal
approbation. As
The MjJlerics of Vd*lph» Humphrey Clinker
Romanccof the For eft Amelia,
Sicilian Romanes • Gil Bias
Caflle of Qtranto Peregrine Pickle
Old Manof If unfa Dt+il upon Tvjo Stitle
Sidney Caflle Adventures of a Guitpa
Defvnnd Launcelot Greanct
Family Party The Sijiets
Tales the Caflle Don Q'uixotte
Ctrill* ;w, The Memoirs of Count Fathom
an Heirtjs Almoran and Harriet
Evelina ; #r, u yumf lady e Soy man aud Almcna
entrance into the world Tale*- of tie Genii
American Hunter Moral Tales
Theodoftus and ConflaHtia Fool of Quality
Cbinefe "Tales Arabian 2+iglis Entertainms.
Anna Si, Ivee Arabian Tales, a continuation
Tom Jones of the Arabian Nights
Vicar of IVtjt field Julia y or the Nsrv Flo if a
Jcfpb Andrews Pamela
Kod*ric Random Clarijja Harlmve
Trifrum Shandy Sir Charles Grandifon
Rohinfon Crufoe
The publisher has not yet determined upon the arrange
ment in- which the above novels fliall appear ; being de*
tcrmined to add and intermix other novels of equal cele
brity, altho* he is conscious, that by comparing the above
lift with all former collections of this nature, the superi
ority of the present colle&ion will appear obvious. Britifli
editors muk exclude from their plans, all the
new aud entertaining novels that have been wrote within
these lail fourteen years, mofl o? them being literary pro
perty.
For further particulars fee the proposals at large which
are to be had gratis of Thomas Condie, No.
faacTpnia, Where orders and fubferibers will be thankful
ly received;
£>* A liberal allowance to Booksellers, and others to
ting quantities.
N. B. An apprentice to the bcokbindiag business want
ed. June ij. fth&f. 3t.
William Young Birch,
STATIONER.
No. 17 South Sccond-flreet, between Market and Chef
nut flreetj,
Has imported by the last fliips from London, an exteo
five allortment of the best Stationarv Goods,
which he offersfor sale on equitable terms. Amongst eth
er articles he has fine wovr vellum drawing paper, viz.
Antiquarian Elephant,doubled single
Atlaa Imperial, Super Royal, &c.
Writing paper of the firft quality, viz. Imperial, super
royal, royal, medium, demy, thick, thiu, vellum, and
bank post, folio,.quarto, gilt and plain, copy foolfcap,
pot, &c.
Merchants' account-books, vi*. ledgers, single and dou
blejonrnals, waste books, calh books, letter books, bank
check books, &c. Books of any size or pattern made to
order.
W. Y. Birch refpedfully informs merchants, traders
and others, that the making of account books is a branch
of his business which, having paid particular attention t*,
he flatter, himfelf he Ihall execute ia such a manner as to
secure tbe approbation of his friends. And in order to do
this,/** has been careful to provide himfelf withaftockof
paper from the mofl esteemed Englifc paper-makers, for
the purpose a fufficient quantity of which he shall endea
vor always to keeji on hand, so as to enable him. at all
times to meet the demands of his friends.
Quills and pen* School biblcs&tcftamcnts
Ink and lnk-ilands, pewter, India rubbers
e:. lead and pocket Paper cases, red and black
Wedgewood and glifs phi- Flat and round rulers
lofophical do. Pounce and pounce boxes
Pewter ink-chcfts Shinii:g sand
Mahoganywriting defies Scaling wax, fuperfine, fine
-Black ebouy ditto and common
■Ditto ditto ink-stands with Wafers, red, black and col
plated furniture ored, fi*e and common,
Cards larga and small gilt large ar.d small
P' iln Types and ink for marking
Copy-books ready ruPd linen
Copperplate copies Red morecco and black tra-
Print and colored map files veiling cafcs
1 Sand and sand boxes Black lines for writing
Walkden's Alining japan ink Pocket books
and red ink-powder , Patent blacking cake for
Ivory knives and_foldtrs boots and Ihoes
Fine writing parchment Pen and fpor:fmen's knives
Blank checks, bills of lading, Too"h powder and bmflies !
and blanks for bills of ex- Razors, {having boxes and i
change, bonds, bonds & Windforfoap.
judgments, powers of at- Spermaceti candle: of a fu
torney, indentures, mort- pcrior quality
gage«, 4tc. Sponges, large fiz:.
W. Y. Birch has supplied himfelf with a ccrmjlete stock
of eT.-ry article in the Stationary line, and as he Ihsll be
studious to execute his business in a manner the noft fati»-
fadory » his cuflomers, he hopes to meet with eicourage
n\ent ana support.
Country Store-keepers supplied on the fceft terms for
cafli. June 18. tt&sjt
For Sale,
A Few Calks of First Quality
INDIGO.
Enquire at No. 71, South Water flreet.
Wiy » ihtftf
S H O T[
OF il sizes, fro;ii 32 lb to Grape,
Cambonies, i'ots, and other mailings exscutedjat the
(hostel notice,
Nail rods from rod to rpilte,
Hoop Iron, of all sizes, for calks or cutting into nails, from
a brad to 12d nails,
Anchors, from 17 Cwt.to ioclb.
Bar Iron,
A Quantity of James River Tobacco,
Carolina Pork.
Herrings in barrels,
Kiln-dried corn meal in irlhds.and Bbls.
Rye flour &c. to be fold by
Levi Holiingjwortb SiJ* Son.
Auwjl 4
FOR S A L F.,
A few hundred weight of Salt Petre ill bag 6
Best Sherry Wine I H in quarter calks
Champaignc in cases of Jo bottles
A quantity of White Lead, Bar Lead, and Shot in calks
About 80 boxes tin plates, A few .boxes of belt Castile
Soap entitled to drawback
\ti invoice of Walking Canes and Perfumery
Ditto Bandanna handkerchiefs, and
Some Elegant Italian Statwarf.
Samuel Breck, jun.
ttofs's Wharf.
June 18. e66
JOHN PAUL JONES.
INFORMATION is hereby given, that the late John
Paul Jones was a proprietor of five (hares (amount'
ing to about 5867 icres)in atra& of land purchased by
the Ohio Company, in' the territory of the United States
of America, north-weft of the river Ohio; and that his
heirs, or legal representative, on application to the direc
tors of said company, at Marietta in the territory afore*
said, will reccive a deed of the said five shares, or rights
of land.
The application may be made personally or by an agent,
but proper documents must be produced to prove the
claimant or claimants the legal heirs or representative of
the said Jones
n.s. As it is not known in what country the person
or persons interested reside, it will be an a& of benevolcncd
in every Printer in America and Europe, who ftiall iufert
thisadvertifement in his paper.
In behalf of the directors of the Ohio Company,
RUPUS PUTNAM.
Marietta, May 20,1796- [June 4] jawqw
Trea/ury Department;
Revenue-Office, March loth, 1796.
PROPOSALS will be received at the office of the
CommiJJioner of the Revenue, (No. 43, at the corner of
Third and Chefnut-ftreets, Philadelphia) for building in
North-Carelina,
I. A Light-House upon Cape-Hatteraj.
11. A Beacon House upon Shell Castle island.
Descriptions of each, and all other particulars, may be
seen on application at the offices of any of the Superinten
daits of Light-Houfcs, or of the Supervisors of the Reve
~ de, or of the Collectors of the Customs n any of the
States ; as also at this office. 2awjm
Bank of the United States,
JUNE 14th, 1796-
NOTICE is hereby given, that applications will be re
ceived at Bank, until the firft day of July next, m
clufive, for the purchal'e of the fix per cent flock bearing
interest from the firft day of July next, to be ilTued agree
ably to an ait of Congress, passed the thirty-firfl day of
May last, entitled, " an a<ft making provision for the pay
ment of certain debts of the United States."
CONDITIONS:
—ttlWi ifef
four, and ,ve months, in three equal instalments.
ad. No sum let* than one hundred dollars will be fold,
■or any sum expressing a fractional part of one hundred
dollars.
N.B. The application accompanied by the rates offered in
Payment are tc be made in the fame manner as for dij.counts, and
are to be handed to the Cajbier, from ivhom answers can it re* ■
eeived on the feeond of July.
By order of the Dire&om,
G. SIMPSON, Cashier.
lavrtlj wftj 1
PROPOSALS
tot rusLisaiNQ ir jwsscri?tioj»,
A Plan of the City of Washington,
By THOMAS FREEMAN,
Surveyor oT the Urritery of Columbia and City of Walh
ington.
-Conditions*
U This Plan fiiall be an elegant aad correa Copperplate
impression, of about four feet square, whereon will He
accurately delineated the notural state of the ground
contained within the lines of the city-—plains, vallics,
riling grounds, springs, runs, creeks, &e. with the lines
•of the grand avenues, streets, squares, public appropri
ations for walks, gardens, as now correctly laid out and
permanently eftabiithed—the river Potomak, and East
ern Branch, opposite jthe city—the channels, coasts,
harbours and foundings of the fame, as taken by order
of the Board of Commissioners.
It. On the fides of the Plan shall be represented a beauti
ful elevation of the Prefldent's House and the Capitol.
HI. To render the drawing still more intelligible and Ufe
ful, it (hall be accompanied by a Pamphlet, containing
all th» laws of the general and particular governments,
refpeaing the location and eftablilhment of the city—
the orders and regulations of the Beard of Commission
ers, approved by the President of the United States, re
fpeding the purchase and improvement of lots therein
■a particular description of the city and adjaccnt country
—of th«'river Potomak, with the produaions, state of
cultivation, commerce, population, b*c. of the country
through which that vast river flows.
IV. This work will be publiffied undef the famSUon of the
.Commissioners of the City, and shall meet with their
full approbation before it appears in public ; and Mr.
Fkeeman pledges himfelf to make it as accurate ufeful
and eatertaining as possible.
V. The price to fubferibers 5 Dollars, to be paid on recep
tion of the Plan and Pamphlet.
Surveyor's Office, City of Walhington, June 8, 1796.
£5" Subfcripttons will be taken at the Surveyor's office,
in-the city; Mr. Rice's Bookstores in Baltimore and Phila
delphia ; and at the principal Bookllorcs on the Continent.
J""' l 7 iew3 w
Urbanna Mill Seats ,
SITUATE in Cecil county, Maryland, on the banks o
the river Sufquehanna, about one mile above tide wa
ter, and commanding the water of that important river,
the channel conducing the trade of which-cpmes so near
the Mill Seats as to make it convenient to Ipeak the boats;
and Mills may be so situated as to receive them along their
walls, and by water lifts take in their cargoes.
There is a power fufficient for many and any kind or
ufeful Water Works, and fy much may be juflly f»id in
commendation of this Scite as would be inconvenient to
insert in a newfpapeT publication.
Those who may deCre to be concerned, will probably
end tremfclvei well pleased on viewingthefitiiation.
Leases tor any term of years may be obtained on appli
cation to the fubfcribs r, living on the premises.
CLEMENT HOLLYDAY.
A P"> lawjm
Washington Canal Lottery,
NO. I.
the State of Maryland has authorised
i v the underwritten, to ralfe twenty-fix thonfand,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Wa(hington, from the l'«-
tomac to the Eastern Branch Haruour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. f.
Viz -I Prize of io,ooo dollar*, 20,009
I ditto 10,000 19,000
7 lad drawn 1
Tickets, each j 00 ° W O3
6 ditto l,oo« 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,00 a
to ditto 190 1,000
55 ditto 50 »,7jo
5750 ditto Ii 69,008
To be r&ifed for th« Canal, 16,350
5850 Prize*, 175,003
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, atTen Dollars, - 175,00 a
gjT The Commiflioners have taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid aft for the punctual payment of
the prizes.
The drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after the
drawing is finifhed, lhall be considered as relinquished for
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
( Signed J NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, o/H.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of Walhmgton, Feb. 11. . $
The First Floor and Cellar,
OF a three.story Brick House to be LET, fituste on
Dock-street, between Second and Vt alnut (Irefi—
Very luitable for an Office or Wholesale Store. Enquire of
J JAMES KEEGAN,
Z. Vn fit FYrVnW A
June 28 .. eoi t
For Sale,
A Valuable Grift and Saw Mill,
IN New Jersey, near the Forks of Litt!« Egg-Harbonr.
The Grift Mill is sixty by forty feet, two water wheels,
and calculated for four run of Stones, with fcrcen, fans
and bouking-cloths, &c. Th«Savy-Mil|hastwofaw»,an4
capable ofcuttinrfiveto 6 too thousand feet of Boards per
year. A valuable piece ef Cedar Swamp, within a mile
and a half of the Mill, and within three quarters of a mile
of a Landing The Lumber, Sic. may be taken by water
from the mill tiil.
ALSO FOR SALE,
Several Valuable Trads of Land,
In Pennsylvania, for all of which payment will be receive
ed in the cotes of Mefirs. Morris and Nieholfon, or in
Calh.
For further information apply to the Printer.
May 17. law
City cf Washington.
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No.ir,
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE
FEDERAL CITY.
~ dweTling"}io r ule| J calh 30,000? J 000
I ditto 15,000 & cafo 15,000 40,000
I ditto is,ooo & ca(h 15,000 30,000
I ditto to,ooo & cash 10,000 20,000
1 ditto 5,000 & ca(h 5,000 10,000
1 ditto i.ooo & caffc 5,000 10,000
I calh prize of 10,003
t do. 5,000 each, ar% - 10,00 a
10 do. 1,000 - ▼ 10,000
%o do. 500 - . 10,000
00 do. roo • . 10,000
»oo da. 50 . ro.ooo
400 do. 25 . . , o>ooo
1,000 do. «o • . *0,000
15,000 do. 10 . 150,000
*6,739 Prizes.
3i,a6i Blanks.
SO,OOO Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 40,0000
_.*• s B ", To , f "° r ur th °ft "ho may tale a quantity of
Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the 1 ast drawo
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one :
And approved notes, securing payment iireither moo»y
«JnlTmh tcrta '" a ' ter drawin S> will be received for
any number not less than .to tickets,
! This Lottery wilU*,rd rtefcganf IpSslmen of tHepfr
rate buddings to be er*»ed in the City of Walhinrton—
Two beantifu} designs are already Telexed for-the entire
front, on two of the public squares; from these prawings
it 11 proposed to ereA two centre and four comer buildings
as soon as possible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventorsrs, ia
the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery,
A nett dedtaciion of five per cent, will be made to defray
the neceflary expenses of printing, &c. and the surplus
will be made a part »f the fund intended for the National
University, to be erected within the city of Wafhin«on
The Drawing will commence as soon a» the tickets art
fold ofF.--The reoner prizes will be payable in thirty davs
after it is finilhsd ; ind any prizes for which fortunate
numbers ate not pr.duced within twelve months after the
drawing isclofcd 're to be considered as given towards
Unverfity-j it being determined to fettle
♦he whole business .n a year from the endino- of the draw*.
>ng, and t6 take up the bonds given as security
™ C M rC , al 'V U p?fif iTen f^ r th£ payment of the p rize,,
are held by the Plefident and two Directors of the Bank
ot Columbia, aid are valued at more than half the a
mount ot the lottery.
The twenty ftur gentlemen who by appointment of
the late Comm.lS.ners aflifted in the management of the
Hotel Lottery arc requested to undertake this arduous talk
a second time o„ behalf of the public ; a fufficient num.
ber of these hajngimdly accepted.it is hoped that the
friends to a National Umverfity and the other federal ob,
jeiSs may continue to favor the design.
By accounts received fr.m the difterent parts of the
Continent as Veil as from Europe, where the tiokets
have been ientfor sale, the public are allured thar the
drawing will speedily commen.e, and that the car-c and
caution unavoidably neceflary to insure a fafe disposal of
the tickets hai rendered the {hor; suspension indilpenfable
, Ti . . , SAMUEL BLODGET.
r ad at £he Ba " k cf Columbia ;of
James Weft a Co. Baltimore ; of Peter Oilman, BoW
ot John Hafkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Welfe
Cooper'* Petty, *
PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO.
—No. 119—
CHESNUT-STRHET.
Prise Eight Dalian per Aimmmrj