; jjs&, Hi, t?t) J&t&t00» <&* Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1203.] MONDAY EVENING, JULT 18, 5796. X.
■ ——— <*■ " 1 —— — 1 .. . ... rr _ ■ :—'—-»
For Sale or Charter,.
the snow i
B O S T O Nj.
BURTHEN about 4000 Bbls. df flour—(he may be font
to sea at a small expence, her fails and rigging being in Qn
very good order—apply to Mar
James Campbell, or
Clpnrge T ntime*. p]
" April, • §
for bale,
(On a liberal credit) J-*'
The fafl failing copper-bottomed BRIG
Amiable Matilda,
IN compleat order for sea, with a flight on board. Ap
plyto r SAMUEL SMITH, Broker.
J"')' 7- §
Brigt. George Washington at
Au&lon.
Oil Mpnday Evening, y
THE ilwbi instant, at 8 o'clock, at the Mercliants' Coffee-
House, will be fold by Audion,
The Brigantine
GEORGE WASHINGTON,
Q "RTHBN about 1600 barrels, built of T'
I) French Oak, and thoroughly repaired "
' q i . new laying at the lower fide of Walnut-ftr«iet
wharf ; 'a repiarkablc vessel. Terns of pay
irient' approved notes at 3, 6 and 9 months. Inventory The
to be'feen at the Counting-house of the fubftribers, or at
the place of sale. FQOTMAN & CO. Auctioneers.
. July 1 5»l
Snow Hebe. ,
j--. FOR SALE, A
The Snow HEBE,
A faith ul Philadelphia built veflel, car
ries 1.3000 bushels of grain or 2600 barrels flour, is rea
dy to take in a cargo. She is about tour years old.
Y Apply to PETER BLIGHT.
Who has for sale, .
Sugar, Coffee, Cocoa, and Pimento. _
& Also,
A Pared of CHOICE PORT WINE.
Tune 6 !L_ V
i FOR SALE,
• THF Oareo of the ship Catharine, John Farraday,maf
ter, from Hifpaniola, at the wharf of Messrs. Jeffe & Ro
Vert Wain,
1 eve
Confiding of wa;
J56 Hogsheads of SUGAR tioi
51 Hogsheads"} QOFFEK _J
2(8 Bags j
44 Hh Is. of Clarified MOLASSES
«2 Bales of Cotton
ALSO FOR SALE,
The said ship,
BURTHEN about 14 or 2500 barrels—
.' jfflVyvFs Strong, well found, and may be fsnt to .
aat a small expanse. Apply to .. .
John Craig.
June 41 § j
For Sale, fa! ]
The Schooner ,
&ttL. LARK,
- 1 ONE hundred and twenty tons burthen. A
new vessel ; well foond, and fails extremely
"aft, and well built. For terms apply to the mailer on
board, or to JOSEPH ANTHONY and CO.
IF the above veflel is not fold by Siturday >. ihe will
take freight- on very low terms for Boston.
July 12 . $ tS -
CABLES,
From 16 to 9 i inches, for sale by
Jeremiah Warder,
No I a north Third-street.
1:* - $
July i* —
Lottery
raising fix thoufcnd fix hundred and sixty-seven
f dollars and fifty cents, by a deduaion of fifteen per
«entfroin the prizes,, and not two blanks to a prize, viz.
I Prize of S° 00 dollars i» dollars 5000 ,
11000 1000
* 500 JOO
200 lOCO U
JO 100 acoo c
99 5° 455° rc
aoo *5 5000 f
9000 10 40,000 c
t Last drawn cumbers of 1000 dollars each, jooo p
_L_— —— ' a
133 a Prizes. 44,450 i
40 iS Blanks.
6i(o Tickets at Seven Dollars each,
By eri'.er of the Direaors of the Society for eftabhfh- .
int; Ufeful Manufaflures, the fupenntendants of the Pat
erfon Lottery have rtquefted the Managers to offer the
fdfcgoing.Ssheme to the public, and have directed them
to refunu the money to those persons who have purchased
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
in this Lottery. \ ...
The lottery has aaually commenced drawing, and will _
* continue until finiflicd. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
may befeen .t thr office ot William Blackburn No. 64
iouth Second street, who will give information where tick-
ets may be p- ocured.
Dated this 17th day of June, 1796.
7. N GUMMING, 7 f
JACOB R. HARDENBERG, > Managers.
JONATHAN RHEA, 3
Tune i S !1_
—. . EQ.R S J-LE* 1
AFOUN'I" of BREVIER, half worn ; about fourhun- >
dred weight. Enquire at the Office of the Gazette h
of the United States, No. 119 Chefnut-ftreet. §
just Arrived,
In the Snow Boston, James Kirkpatrick, master from Li
verpool,
cooo BufheU SAI>T ;
100 Crates QUEENS'WAHE ; and
An Assortment of SHIP CHANDLERY ;
for s L E
On board, at Pine-street wharf - Apply to
yames Campbell, or
George Latimer.
April 151. j;
11 I■■ ■ . 1 1 M ■" '
Take Notice, ,
THAT the feuHfcribef intends to maice applic*-
tion for the renewal of a Certificate, No. 1609, Jp
for 4000 dollars, dated the 14th December, 1795, bearing
interefl at 5 £ per cent, frorri jft January, 1796, in the
name of David Dunderdaie & Co. of Loeils, in York- C 1
(hire, merchants. The fame isfuppofed.to been loft
on its way to New York, under coyer to Blee*:ker & '
March, of that placc, on the <sth of January last*
Thomas M'Euen. ah'
Philadelphia, tad June, 1796. * sfiw
■ -of
A small Invoice
PER the (hip Harriet, <apt.Thomas W. Normb.il, from tin
Hamburgh, confining of ap
Ravens Duck,
J. f>bkcbtht P-
Holland Linen 1, 0
Cambrics, See. re
ad so, at
A NEAT ASSORTMENT OF
Gold and ftlver Watches. $
Which will be difpefed of together or by the package.
Apply to „
Isaac Harvey, jun. ia
No. J South Water Street. hi
f June 15 S3W fc
\ — '
; Sa es of India Goods.
r The Cargo *f theihip Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cal"
t cutta and Bengal, 3
CONSISTING OP
A Large and general assortment of Bengal and Madras
COTTON and SILK GOODS.
AMOfefQ WHICH ARE
A vanety fine wbrked and plain Mujlins, '
Doreas, is"f. Also,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
in boxes and bags—and BLACK. PEPPER.
For Sale by
Willings iff Francis,
No. 21 Pecn Street.
June 8
I wenty Dollars Reward.
WAS STOLEN, last evening, from the pasture of the
fubferiber, a black Rockingham GELDINO, 15
1-2 hands high, has a star, and some white under his
f throat, (the part being formerly chafed) ;has a leather on
Q hi« neck, the mane on the near fide, his foot-locks fretted
with a clog, and is a horse of Much bone and size. Who
ever fecuresjiini with the thief, (hall have the above re
ward, or for the Horse alone a very generous compenfg
tion JOHN LAWRENCE.
I»!y 7 eo4w
1
New Hat and Hosiery-store, »
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL,
By WILLIAM M'DOUGALL, I
No. 134 Market-Jireety
0 Third door from the corner of Fourth, fouthfide J
M#n's Black American and English HAT&» of various qua- (
lities and prices
Ditto Dr-bs unders T • '
Lad Ties' ditto, black, and a farge assortment of fancy do. :
Coloured Beavers, W)th a great variety of elegant and t
fafbionable Trimmings i
Youths Black and Drab-coloured do.
Children's fancy do I
All kinds of Silk, Silk & Cotton, Cotton & Thread HOSE
Knit, coloured Pantaloon*
A Do. Drawers
ly Do. Breeches Patterns
>n Silk Gloves
Knotted, coloured do. Cotton
ill A quantity of Mending Cotton, sorted colours.
The Hats finilhed in the newefl fafhion.
June 27. corm
For sale by the fubferibers,
IN PfNN-STKE ET,
Ijo quarter Chests frefh Hyson Tea;
100 ditto do. frefh Souchong Tea;
30c Boxes China, containing small tea fette of 41
pieces;
_ 400 pieces Bandanoes.
Willing & Francis.
January 30 -?taw.
en — — —
;" r Yazoo Lands.
May le had at the Editor's Office 119, Chefnut-Jlrect,
00 A few Copies of " a Report of the Attorney
co Geneial to Corngrefs containing a Collection of
00 Treaties aud other Documents,
- 50 relative to and explanatory of the Title to the Land
iOO fitiiate in the South Western parts of the United
, 00 States, and claimed by certain Companies under a
— law of tlve State of Georgia, paiTed January 7th,
jo 1795-
For Sale,
(j,_ \ Three story BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut
at . £\. street, between Front and Second ftrsets, in which
Messrs. James Calbraith & Co. have for many years (and
em now do) carried on business.
f c( j Poffeflion will be given iiv one month, or sooner.
xts For terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or
HECTOR CALBRAITH.
vill April *1. ■_ §_
2es T 0 BE LET.
c t_ « LARGE Commodiavis dwelling House, N05.114,
iJL Spruce llreet, with a convenient liable and Cbacli
H«ufe, —Also for sale a Chariot but little the worse for
u f c June i. eotl
:rs - "~Wm." HOLDEtINEShb,
1 No. 76 High Street,
TTAS received, by the latest arrivals from Europe and
II the East Indies, a well feleifted affortmeHt of Siik
un- IVlercery, Lintn papery and Haberdashery Goods ; which
ette he will fell, Wholesale and Retail, oA the lowest terms ;
AMONGST WHICH ARK,
— Some fine India muslins embroidered with gold and friver
Superfine Book, Jaconet, ind Mulmul ditto
Li- Do d« do do Handkerchiefs
Some extra black taffeth:s,lutiftringsaud colored Persians
Bandano Handkerchiefs
Long and (hort Nankeens
Englilh Mantuas of. the firfl quality
Danialk table linen and napkins, very fine
Silk Hosiery, an elegant affortmant
Thtad and cotton do
1 Umbrellas —green silk, oil'd do. and do cloth ,
French cambrics, vety fine
lrilli Linens, do. &c. 3cq. June 14 §
Samuel Richardet*, I
"n EvSPECTFIiI.I.Y informs the- Gentlemen :
A*- Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEE HOUSE in the
city of Philadelphia:
The Subscription Room wi.i Tie furniftied with all the
daily papers publilhed in Philadelphia, New-York, Bof
tOn,"Baltimore, together with thafe of the principal com- \
citiss of Europe—They will be tiled
ahd none permitted to be taken away on any accoitnt
■ ■ Tea, Coffee, Sounes, (tTCreams, ari3 a variety
tof I-rMicti I .iqiiors;' together with the u'.ual reirefhmeuts,
will V all-times be procured at ihchar.
f GShitlcir.cn may depend tin accommodated with
I the choicen of Wines, Spiritupus Liijuofa, and the most
approved Malt Liquors from London and orher breweries.
The Larder will, be supplied with tfcifprime and earlielt
pfoduSions of thp Staron.
Large and small Parties, or fihgle Gentlemen., may be
accommodated with Breakfalls, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hours most convenient to themfelyes—a cold Collation is
regularly kept for conveniency, the. Billof Fare to he had
at tho.bar. . ,
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furniftied, 2nd
the utmost attention paid to cleanliness, and every other
irequifite.
S\iyiuEL Richardkt will be happy to receive, and
execute the comrnaßds of his Friends, and the Public at
large;, and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfclf that nothing on his part fhall-be-wanting to pre
fer ve that patronage with which he has been lo diftirtguilh
ingly fionored.
Philadelphia, April 19. §
City cf Washington.
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11,
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent } 20,000 dollars, & 7 rO,OOO
dwelling-house, 5 ca<h 30,09°, are >
x ditto is>ooo & calh 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,00 a
1 ditto - 10,000 & calh 10,000 10,000
r ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 lo,oco
I ditto 5,000 & calk 5,000 10,000
I cash prize of 10,000
1 do. 5,000 each, are, • 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - " 10,000
ao. do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
200 do. 50 10,000
ie 4co do. 45 " 10,000
5 i,ooo do. so * 20,000
is 15,000 do. 10 • • 150,000
n .
d 16,739 Prizes.
>- 3J,j6i Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 40,0000
N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity o:
Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the fy*ST drawn
ticket, and the 30,000 the lasT but one :
' And approved notes, securing payment in either money
or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be received for
any inimber not less than 30 tickets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of the pri
vate buildings to be ere-fled in the City of Washington
Two beautiful designs are already fcl-Aed for the enure
front ;on two of the public squares; frort these prawmgs
it iepropoied to erect two cencre'antl four conser buildings,
as loon as poTTible after this lottery is fold, and to convey,
od them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner defcrihed in the fchemfe for the Hotel Lottery.
A nett dedu&ioirof five per cent, will be made to defray
the necessary expenfcs of printing, &c. and the surplus
SE will be made a part of the fund,intended for the National
University, to be ere&ed within the city of Washington.
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
fold off.- -The money prizes will be payable in thirty days
after it is finilhad ; and any pr ze» for which fortunate
numbers aie not produced within twelve months the
drawing is closed, are to be considered as given towards
the lund for the University ; it being determined to fettle
[ the whole business in a year from the ending of the draw
ing, and to take up the bonds given as security.
The real securities given for the payment of the Prizes
are held by the President and two Direaors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
mount of the lottery.
4 The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment o
the late Commiflioners assisted in the management of th<
Hotel Lottery are requefled to undertake this arduous tafl
a second time on behalf, of .the public ; a fufficient nam
ber of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that thi
friends to a National University and the other federal ob
ieiSts may continue to favor the design.
By accounts received fr#m the different parts of thi
, , Continent as well as from Europe, where the ticket
* have been sent for sale, the public are assured that thi
drawing will speedily commence, and that the care ant
of caution unavoidably necessary to insure a lass difpof.U o
rs, th« tickets, has rendered the in jr fulpenfion indifpcnfable
nd SAMUEL BLODGET.
. , Tieket9may lie had at the Bank ot Cohiui ia ; o
James Weft & Cq. Baltimore ; of Petti Gilman, Boston
' a of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells
th. Cooper's Furry.
Lo£,
/-»N Thursday 30th Ji-ne, on the road fromPhiladelphi
. , vj to the Falls of Schuylkill; and about the fifth mile
a brown and white mottled POINTER DOG, anfwerst<
the name of Don, had on round his neck a collar engr= v
ed Waller Phillips, Philadelphia. Whoever will brin]
him to Mr.Kid, No. 191 Market-street, will receive a re
ward of ten dollars.
C N. B. The owner that the Dog is tied up, olfi
— he would have returned. The above reward will be giv
en to-any .peifon giving that information if true..
Ich Chien d'Arret perdu.
for TSUDI le 10th Juin on a per.du fur la route de Philadei
f J phie aux Ohutes de la Schuylkill, a cinq milles de 1
ville, un Chien d'Arret marque d« taches Dlanches t
brunes, II reponde au nom de DON ct porte un collier fu
le.quelfont grave les mots Waller Phillips, Philadelphi.
, Quiconque c: chien chcz Monficur Kid, rue d
?■'!, Mardie, aura dix gourdes de reconipenfe. ..
3 A 11 y a lieu de foupconner que le chien eft tenu attach
U . C quelqijepart; autriEinent il feroit deja revenue de luinifm
' On donnera ladite recompense acelui qui peut indiquer .
, lieu ou ce chien fe trouve maintenant.
lver July .6 «3*
L * JUST A ail FED,
175 ilngfheads of Choice
St. CROIX SUGJRS.
Also, ■*
A quantity of Rum.
£For Sale by
James Yard.
§ J»iy 6t
By'a* Actiil reiiJeftt at. Mr. Oel'er Hori.l,
1 MINI A TUIIF. L I K 15 \ £ S S " 5
ARE tfjcen anJ excetftei in that dcgahf and "c?e!i«tte
llde, which is so ne.jlfary to ren Je'r a Miniafare Pic
ture an iatereftiug je.wti,
He will warrant a ttrong and indisputable reft r..
, lilance; and he t.v';cs tha liberty to lay Wore th« pubtii
.of this place Mi m >ft eariieft imeiiti<4Vi to deserve their pi- fc.
tronagc by his 'ocft cndeavor's'to' please.
N. B.< Specimens are lo befeen. yj
Ma v "■ N , S
Lottery, -
n°. r.
WIIf.REAS the State of Miifytind has ,^
the underwritten, t« raise t\yenty«fix thoufu.-id,
twohundred, and fifty dpTUrs,forthe purpose of cutting
a Canal through th-J City .of Walbington, from .the l»o;
toinac to die Eastern Branch Haruour.
The following is .he SCHEME of No;
Viz .i Prize of 40,000 dollars, 10,000
r ditto io.ooo 10,000
Tlaftdrawn") ,
Tiiets, each j s '° C ° 35,CC0
6 ditto 1,000 • 6,000
10 ditto 40©' 4.0C0
40 ditto 100 1,000
55 ditto 50
J750 J'tto la 69,008
To be raised for.the Canal, 26,150
5850 Prizes, 175,000
11650 Blanks, not t\vo to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
1 The Commi(Tioner» have taken the Securities re
quired by the aforettid a<si for the pun&ual payment »f
'the prizes.
The drawing ef this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon as the Tickets arc fold, of which timely
notice will be given., , .
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after Hl4
_drawiog is finished, fhalbbe confide*.<la» rclli^L.i 1 *:!,:'! ioT
thd'bcnefitof the Canal, and appropriated accordingly..
( Signedj NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROf L, o/D.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALTER,
Wm m.uuncanson,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES CARRY.
City of WaQiingttSfe, I'eb. 11. §
For Sale,
A LARGE ELEGANT *AKD WELL FINISHED
Th reoftory Briek House,
(The late refidenee of General Walter Stewart)
WITH a LOT ef GROUND thereunto belonging, on
the weft t! V 1 of Third-street, near Unicin-llree.t
j! containing in front 31 feet, and in depth 100 feet, to an
n alley leading into Uniori-ftrcft. TKe (ioufe is'jfa feet front
and 50 feet deep ; the several rooms contained in it are
;y large, .commodious, ana completely finithed; the tv.<: ftrft
>r ; oriefiw-e, each, ly fcet high ; .here are 10 mahn-t-.y
doors in the,houfe,; a geometrical llairctle, with malts'ga
i- ny rails and a good Iky'ligTit. The Jnteheriiii tin ell
— ar, which is spacious ;ihd conyenieht, and finiflwd with an
re oven, lte-iv-holes and pantries, a fcrvants* hall and'arge
gs vvinei-celiar ldjoinitig the, kitchen, in from of which Uane
>5, ar<;a in which there., is a pump The yard is vaulted. .
•y -Cumrr anicßtmg-with the fttid building is »utat three-'.it.rjr.
in brick hdafe, on the north fide of Union ftree't, contain
y. ing 30 feet' front by SO feetdeep; the lower part of which
ay is at present occupied as a compting-hoiife, and the upptr
us part divided intQ well-finllhed large chambers. This house
lal may at a small expense be convrrted.il/to a cmvmient
dwelling: The street door is very Imidfome, and the front/
re and back have Venetian window-shutter t. Adjoining the
,yt lafl lloufe; upofi tht lot belonging to the firft, are erected
ite bathibg-rooms, &c. There are likewise very good cOaeh
he house and ftablesfinifhed equal (or nearly fo')'with any n
■ds the city, ,011 a lot containing on Union jlreef 30 feet,: and
tie in deptholl the waft fiiie of said.alley 52 feet. There are
w- good cellars umle, th . whole of' the buildings, and a wine
room over part of the liable, with a hay-lott over the re
es, mainder. For further particulars enquire of
nk tD.VARjU UON'S, LL & Co.
a At their Office No. 64 Dock-Arect. between Walnut & Pear,
,0 llieeis.
0 f 6th month 24th, 1796.
the "
alk Now Publijh'mg ly the Printer,
No. 149, Chefmn-Street, and No. 3, Court,
"v delivering to Subfcfibers, and to be had at the differeut
3 * Book-Store« in.this City,
the The Firjl Nvmbir of
ets Berriman & Co's
th j CHE.4P AND ELEGANT EDITION OF
"1 The HOLY BIBLE.
,le * Containing the Old and Naw
Teftamrnts and lhe Apocrypha, with marginal notes and re- .
erences. An Index ;or an account of the mod rcmai k.ible
m i naffages in the old and new Tellament, pointinj; to the pia.e»
;lls « wherein they happened, and to the places of fcriptute wher«-
in they are recorded.—A f able of Time.—Tables of scrip
— ture matures, weight* and coins : with an appendix,contain
ing the method of calculating its measures of surface®
hithtrio wanting in, Trtfttifis on this Jubjefl. A Tabic ot Ojficcs
hia and Conditions of men.
~ conditions
1c ' lt The size of this Edition will be a LARGE FOLIO.
5 printed »n a beautiful new type, and good paper, made par.
■V ~ ticularly for it, It will be published in Numbers, notto ex.
ceed 30, one of which will be delivered weekly to fubferibj,
re " ers, at a quarter of a dollar. Those fubferibers who prcfe
receiving the work complete, will be attended to by fignifying
■'/* the,fame on any of the fubfeription papers in rhe Book(lore»
! 1V * ir« this city.
a. Theie willbe an advance in the price, on subscribing
—- after the firft of Augufl i.ext.
3. In the c®urfeof the Work will be given an elegant
FrOntispiece—From an Engraving of the celebrated artist*
* Grickign.
:la Birr 1 man & Co. gratefully acknowledge the very liberal
Bet encouragement they have met with; and have rcafon to helievo
fur that the exeeution of heir edition will anlwer every expec*
hia. tation. and speak its turn pralfc,
du May a 6 gaeoww.
Teneriffe Wine.
Rle --pENERII'FE WINE, in pipes, hogfWads, and
A quarter calks, and 170 Filtering Stones, jtift ar
't rived per the fchoouer Polly & Sally from Teneriffe,and
~~ for Sale by
John Craig,
No. 12 Dock street.
WHO HAS ALSO FOR SALE,
Best Soft-fheli'd ALMONDS,
RAISiNSin Frails.
SHERRY WINE, in Quarter Cafci,
Irilh CANV AS,
Briflol and Irilh WINDOW CLASS.
it May ■ ta
I'iO.i Ti.'g THE UNIfED slAiia.
Mr. Fenno,
*MANKiND» in the abftoce of greater evils,
have always been acctiftomed to complain of those
which are trivial in their nature, and which would
scarcely attract their notice if they were not ren»
dercd confpieuous by coming alone. Even where
real evils do not exist, the imaginations of some
■will be busy in forming gloomy prognoftieations,
and their Abilities exerted in spreading diltruft
through society.
• To this dHpofition of human nature to repine at
their condition, however enviable, we may justly
attribute the murmurs of some of our citizens, at
the present time of unexampled prosperity. Here •
are the United States risen to independence and re
r Butation, and favored with peace, liberty and plen
iv. apatriotifm mull:'
turn aside from these blefling*,to WfanWTTfie de
fers of government ! America, having refilled
the heavy arm of opprefiion, havings baffled the
fchemcs of insurgency, and disarmed by her placid
dignity the malice of distant nations, is now doom
ed to bt peflered with the effufions .of calumny,
and the lamentation! of counterfeited sorrow.
To'him, however, who conliders human frailty,
this circumstance will not oe'eafion much surprize;
nor, when he examines into its nature and cause,
will it rouse his apprehensions. No system of go
vernment ci>h be formed fa free from error, as not .
to present forih: opening to the of discon
tent; nor-, indeed, would perfeAion-ilfelf fare any
better wilh these who are determined on diflatis'fac
-tion, and continue their censures, rather to che
rish animosity than to effedt j-eformation.
But why lhould these clamours disturb us ? The
evil may be truly said to bring its own r«nedy.
By bringing-political fubjedts so frequently into dif
p.ute, they incite others to think more deeply upon
them,*a{ii"lead us by freqnent alarms to study our
feeurity withmorecircumfpe£ioii. Letnot therefore
tbefrienas of good government be difconcertcd by
the voice of those who delight to vilify & counteract
' It. '
Much has been said about the propriety oF our '
fidirig with certain foreign nations. For my part,
" 1 fee no reason to meddle with the concerns either ;
«f England or France, further than to demand
jullicfcfrom both. As to the opinion of our par
tiality for the former power, it is.'too absurd to de- ,
Terve refutation, though there are many, that pro- ,
fefsto hold it. France, it is true, may claim some
/hare of oucxegard, but cannot we (hew it with
out giving up our Independence to her, as some
would have it 1 I am well aware that we are bound
in frieudlhip to the French nation, but these liga
ments extend only to the mutual interests of the
two nations, and embrace nut the internal policy of 1
either. Was it ever intended by the compact be- i
tween us, that one (hould make the cause of the 1
other her own, and hold herfelf obligated to join in '
her vengeance? If so, the two nations are but I
one; and let them hereafter be ruled by one head, I
since they can by this means operate with greater '
force, and plan their enterprizes with more uni- I
fortuity. <
Bits taking these people on their own ground, 1
and allowing it is incumbent on us to help Fraiace '
in their present difficulties, by what means are w«
"to do it ! Go to war with her enemies ? No, furs
ly ; if the wisdom of France is equal to her hero- (
ism, (he will easily fee that the aid of America has 1
been more effc&ually drawn forth by her obferv- :
ance of impartial deportment, than if het govern- t
ment had been inspired with the fame spirit of re- c
fer.tment that enflamed themselves. She has fur- ,
nifhed them with food, without which the fire of
enthusiasm i> fuffoeated, and the force of armies i
depressed. By this line of condtift substantial fu:- j
•ours ha*« been given ; and who that withes well j
to the cause of France, would be anxious, lather t
to gratify them with useless anger at their enemies, t
than to pursue those lleps by which.alone we c
qualified toaffift them ?
WitlrrelpeA to our treaty with Great-BritaiWj %
concerning which the minds of men have nat yet 1
become calm, much has been said and written t
-perhaps more than its oppofers are willing or' able p
examine. 1 (hall therefoie forbear to-dwcll up- x
OK'it, though it forms the chief fukjtd of com
plaint amongst us. _ g
It is "to be hoped that America will always "be t:
so lingular in the world, as to wefer peftee to war j,
when it rarTWtfone with honour, "aridiTiat Trom * t
the motive of frrvijig our own interest, as well as b
doing j-uitice\to the reft of mankind. Rem'on-
Jb-ances and tfyeats m*ip indeed be made, but have J,
we any j*ay to/o1j«w a'nd enforce them ? Or if we v
confine o«ielvcs to operations, what advan
tages of po!U raptured, or territory fobdued, can h
recompence for the deftruClionjjof commerce and 0
vhe waJle : *f war.? I >ne of those who w
weuld facriSce national reputation to frivolous
f-ars, or cautious, interest.; but if p
is much can be ob-nineil by expostulation as by bat- c
tie, where is the man that wogld rcflßrnmei«d.it, Q
er who so weak aj to admit tei2rgmr t «n|av> . j
From a candid Viejv of appears ob- n
Vio\i3, that the uneasiness of citi- aj
zens has been totally ihey 0
onlv needed f»mef(*ft»us calamity, or
of present blessings, to bring them td a sense t ,
<jf the fuperiurity of their situation to' that of other t(
countries, and that their rancour proceeded by no
means from the weight of injury or' misfortune,
but from the natural inclination of all "mortals to
raife'phantomsof evil where there is none in reality, at
A G-R ICO L-At-it A
■imi —i y ■—" • ac
Thw following observations code from Thomas
Pain e's Pamphlet on the Decline and Fall of th#
* Englidi System of Finance ; Utely presented by
" him" to the Natiotial Convenfron of France. jy
Let Fuianciers diveififv systems of credit as they t * h
will, it is nevertheless true, that every system of ct
credit, is a system of paper money. Two experi- of
incnts have already been had ugon paper money ; th
the or.e in Ajiwricar, the other iti France. Inboih re
those cases the whole capital was emitted, and the
v,Vo'e capital, which in A-merica was called cooti
nental money, and in Fiaßce afGgnats, appeared in ha
irculution ; the of which was : that the re ,
Ki-rair- so cuotmouk. aad lb difpropor m
\" r y7 '
- tfqned to the quantity of. popuJarTort, ~aod ' to"?&o I
quantity of objects upyn w'uivh it could beemp! >
sd, that the market," if 1 m;i? fa expxey it, »vas
l'» glutted with it, and the val.iici>f it fell./Bci wen .
live and fix years determined the fate (#"thoL-%x
-■l4 periments. The fame, tatc have/happened to.
:n ' gold and silver. Cptlld gold and silver have bleep ,
ifiued ia the fame abundant manner ss paper had
been, and confined wi'hin the country as paper mo
"*■ ney always is, by having'to circulation 011s,. of-ft,
uft or to fpiak on a larger fc-iL-j ihe f.»me t'.iTng would
happen in theworJ4,ootittT the world be glutted with
a! gold and silver, as. America and Fiance has been
"y with paper.
at The Englilh fyltem differs from that of Amftica
; rc "and France in this one that its capito! is
te- kept oui tl.jf ; S- i t " dajs not jppear in cir
:n- cuhttion. Were the whole* capital o£.the national !
"ft debt, which at the time I is atlHotl
four hundred million pounds sterling, to be emitted
inaffignats, or tills, it would fink in value as thttte o?
America and France have done ; and that in a great
-10 er degree, because the quantity of them wsuld b4 '
m * more difproportioned to the quaotity of population
'y> in England, than was the ease in either of the o
ther two countries. A nominal p?und sterling in
y> those bills would sot be worth one jienny.
'i But though the English fyftcra, by thu« keep- |
' e > ing the capital out of fight, is preserved from hasty j
i°" deflruftion, as in the cafe of America arid France, '
,Qt it nevertheless approaches the fame fate, and will 1
n - arrive at it with the fame certainty, though by a
n >' flower progress. The difference is altogether in the 1
;c * degree of Ipced by which the two, systems approach ■
ie * their fate, which, <0 speak in refund numbers, is as '
twenty is to one ; that is, the Englifc system, tliat
c of funding the capital instead ofifiuingit, \
y- within itfelf a capacity of endurjpgtwenty times lon- '
ger than the fyftemsadopled by America & Franc* ; '
3,1 and at the end of thattime it will arrive at the fame /
ur common grave the Potter's , field) of paper, money, i
re The datum, I take for this of twen- t
afy to one ' ' is ,he difference betweerv a capital and 1
" the interest at five percent. TwelSty times the, jn- 1
{tereft is equal to the capital. The accumulation
llr of paper money in England is in proportion to the''
*> aecumulatian of the interest upen every new Joan,,
" and therefore the progress to dissolution is twenty > j
times flower than if the capital were to be emitted ' (
ir " and put into circulation immediately. Everj twen- r
e * l T y ears in the English system is.equal to one year
in the French and American fyftcms. 5
ne ,1 . "
l ; e " BY THIS DAY's MAILS. !
,d ■' — *
a- NEW-YORK,. July ,6. f
be The refpeftability of the perfoo who ycfterday
of communicated the price of wheat, and the rate of
e- infurancc, induced us to give it a place. Upon ''
ie due investigation his information is not entitled to
in the froalleft degree as credit, as we are informed, by " t
at the bell authority, that merchantable wheat is now 1
3, felling at 13s. and 123. 6. per bushel : And that !l
er the r4te of insurance is at 9or 10 percent, out and
i. home, against capture and the danger of the'fea,
&c. And when a diftinAion is made between Bri
tish or French captors, it is, for fub'ftantial reasons,
:e in favour of th? former. [Diary.
'* RIOTS IN AMSTERDAM. 1
*• By the arrival of the (hip Three Friends, yefter- „
0- day afternoon, {„ days from Amsterdam, we ji
's learn that the inhabttaifts of that city were placed in
a disagreeable situation. There were a body of ci
titens to the number of about 8 or 900, called
e- cannonicrs, of the lowest class in the society," who „
r - were allowed to wear fide-arms.
3 f They had lately affcmbled every night in gangs, f,
and ranged about the city like madmen, in several.
> iiiftances committing murder. The municipality. (;
" justly alarmed at these proceedings, gave orders on c
:r : the 11 th of May for them to affeirble in front of ,j
8 » the Stadthoufe, and surrender their aims. The
8 cagnoniers assembled on the day appointed ; and
, tlie light hotfe, and the reft of the militia were or-
k > 'dered to surround them in order to disarm them. a
The cannoeiers however remained film, determined t [
■»i t« surrender only with their lives. With this dif- ] 1;
c position they remained from 12 o'clock at mid-day cl
» until j2. at night.
l " At about half pad 12 at night, they entered the
Stadthoufe, and iorcibly liberated three or four of
e their party who had been confined for murder ; rc
L r&kQJHW, Bfvr. day .fcea.Jio parade.the.ftrccts of (he ,j
---n .c;ty unmolested. A body of French troops had f 1(
8 been feut for to keep the peace of the city, a
By the Friends we have received Dutch papers ; 3
e in May, from which we (hall cause to be translated I(
e what may appear deserving of notice.
Letters by the Three Friends mention a report
" having cireblated i« Amsterdam of an engagement ar
J on the Rhine, in which the Auftrians were-defeated ev
0 with considerable loss. y
» London accounts of the 14th May (late, the re
s ports of a frefh infurrcftion of the I'oles, on the jt
- confines of Turkey, under the command of the
» Chiefs DEUISKO, KOLLYSKOand LI BE
RADWYZKY : that they had published a ma- m
- nifefto, in which they declare their reliance on the
affiftanee bt the Porte to deliver their country from ,u
>' opprtflion.
1 Should this prove true the meditated rupture be
c tween Russia and Torkey will probably be brought °
r to an immediate issue.
> ___
• . BOSTON, July 12. ,
> Our papers from Pjiris are i'everal days later than
. any before received. Several translations from thenj r
w«-gv»e-«4m» The -May rB, contains no
-. account of any battle ou the Rhine. A
S FRFNCH PAPERS. an
j Our friendly correspondent at Paris has supplied us, 'mi
. by capt. 'i ibbets, with a continuation of-the series of evl
The Gazette Nationale, ou le Moiliteur Univerfel, to
May 16. Their contents have been communicated by
f the Engliih papers—and they contain the accounts giv- "5
' cn ef the infurgenr fficit which agitated the Council r,a
- of Five Hundred, andfwhjch has since been allayed by °f
; the vigilance and energy of the Directory. Por the
, reft, the Councils were Occupied inxiifcuffiolis on the
. pecuniary concerns of the and th: expu'.fion t ti<
of the rerraflory The Moniteurof the 16th i-»
fays, "We are assured that the Spanilh Ambaflador' ,
1 has just received a Courier frsm. tlie us Turin,
1 requesting his good offices in procuring a peace. The P' a
motive h, that the flroiij places of Coni, Tortcna'anU Tt
■ ■
sr y
■fj Alexandria, iiicf!cnld their £ites to our ar
jj . ThYSardinian general* • ttkfll ev ?»
' Jfe ilfree-in number, vis. lleutaiaSt ';»;•»?!• il cot«a|rtie
fitert; \c conte dcs Clonal of his sii'dinim
x " majcfty's £uard, and gen. MStter.—Foul: Cojoncls,
to . eight standards, twelve pieces of artillery, sortie how
it'*? j£.?> are also among the vidl o;y.
id «• • SALi- OF pr.l Z! S. • '
0 . Among other awi<ile»,''vrt'fee a ..report' of a refold*
j t don on th&i'ubjeiS of the ('aleV.f/f>ri?e.s )viefented UV
. j 6arbe de Marbois, to the Geune*i! of Ancient*, on the
.id ficth April] fn which lie informs, 'that the
l 0 Coifim<tt»i nad earef(il!y,ar.a!yfed the various treaties
:a between Fr.infe' and other nations ; 'among
other. it declares, that the treaty of Commerce*
;a made i,i i7;S, beUtfe'ea France and the United States,
j 3 forbids the admiralty officers "of American ports," into
whigh the French may pr/V'tfi i r "fiWri'ln';
, of th<ju»JjitisytlT taia prizes, an3?o llit
this fame article ajftfeSJ fhat they may freely depart far
th * port whjve the ciptort were fitted 'oat-: —And the |
; d spir it of tjie- tfeSt'y Is, "thsf judgment. upon the prices
of belongs to the tribunils of the nation to which thetap
t- tors belong, but Hot t» to the Consuls."
j/;, Among other sentences, predicated on a jnft know
)n ledge 'ef the laus of natioits, the reporter slates a cafe:
"Suppefing, fays he, pfeace rc-eftebliihed between
France-and Great Britaiji, and the latter power at wir
ln with Spain, (hould we quietly,fee a Btitifh consul pro
nouncing judgment in a sovereign manner, cauling a
j- prize to be Unloaded aadjfold ; and fo-w, <with a secret
y jo}, the Jeeds of a fesret rnpivre between tu, and una
. tiori zuith whan ~.-jc are at pcacc—\n Ihort, a neutral
'ij power, connected with two belligerent powers, Qilgfifc
not to fuffer either the one or the other to exfcrcjfe -nmf
? afl of sovereignty, even towards.its e nemy —othjdKnfe
l€ the neutral nation is expoftd to indemnity aMßeven
h war ; if (he was able to hinder such violation of her
is neutrality. ' "
,t Speaking of prises carried iptaf Barbe
ls Marbois proifedi, " The crtplars anil the captured,, as-
a Jtajt longer. t>r fyorter according.to the fpkjt of ex
ijlmg treaties, mnjl again propeed to ,sea ; andthepriz•
' es miift be conduced to the ports of the nation of the cup
e tor, and it is there they ought to be tried.
r . leagues, is the reciprocity which we demand ; audit is.
i- thps we will fulfil the duties «f friendfliip and benevo
jj lefee towards our jllie., and even towards nations with
_ Mfliich we are only at peace."
FROM LIS soy. T- (
Schooncr Catharine, Cox, in 45 days. Reports
' were confidently circulated, Tltat Spain and Eng.
'j 'and had commenced war each other, and.
the'reports appeared to ; be credited by two Spani/h
* frigates there which immediately failed for Spain.
' . ; " . FROM FRINGE,
t Capt. Tibbitts.— verbal information is, that
hostilities had commenced on the Rliine, by a vic
tory decifivcly favorable to the Fiench ; and in
which IC,OOO men were tilled. This vi&ory was
soon after followed by another, of almost equal bril
y liancy, and ending in the death of 8000 men.
f Letters from Pari3, rate flour in that city, at 5
n dollars, per barrel. Letters also ftatc, that it was
u hoped through the intercefiion of Mr. Monroe, that
y »the decree of the Government ordering foreigners
v to quit Paris, would be-ameliorated so as to to al
t low Americans to continue in that city—at present
1 they are removed. <
■iTranflated fijr the Centinel.]
GERMANY.
e BRUSSELS, 4th Floreal. 1
Hostilities will commence in a few dayi. The (
French and Aulhian J aroiic» are in movement in all
- parts, and formidable camps covcr both fides of the
2 Rhine.
' FRANCE. 1
PARIS< May 16.
The Cjuticil of 500, hasjuft done an'aft of <
1 great jullicc and humanity, by granting the meant 1
of. subsistence to the widows and children of the tin- <
> fortunate Representatives, Valaze, Carra, Gorfas, <
Bfiffot, Phelippeaux, Oangeneuve, Gaudin, Lidon, '
' Coutlard, Canu'llc-Defmouiins, Birotteatl, Salle,and '
' cuoyennes Petion and Buzot. They are the vlt- 1
tijiis of the Robefperian tyranny. t
j •' May 18. 1
Thedire<3ory is taking a£iive meafnres to bring
the late conspirators to. jijfiice. They have ifTuad «
; a decree of arrest againlt Ricotd, La'ignelot, and
' the principal insurgents, Drouet only excepted, and I
; have sent them to the director of 'ths jury of the ,
criminal tribunal of la Seine. a
Drouet-has undergone one interrogatory.
ARMY OF ITALY. , J
A letter frorrj Gen. Buonparte, of the 17th Flo
. real, addreflid to the Executive Dire&ory, men- S
" tiwti*; TTag-'TSlten _ poirVT-"
fion of the town of Toftoik, in which they found
a very fine fottrefs, which cost the king of Sardin
ia more than' 15 millions. We have found therein &
100 pieces of brass cannon, and casements for 3000 a:
men. ft
He adds, that the day after the ftffpenfion of g
arms, the army wasiput in movement. Beatdieulras ''
evacuated all his podrions.afid has passed the P*o-«i *'
Valence, with all hi»froops. hi
Upcn the.invitation of the king of Sardinia, the
Neapolitans have surrendered Valence to a Piedmoa
t«fe garrifiin.
The Convention of Holland (Batavia) has for- w
ma'.ly declared war agginft'Great Britain. p,
Drouet, who has been arreted as the leader in 0 f
the last Paris infurreftion, is the fame person who n,
flopped Louis XVI. when on his flight fiom Paris pl
toMontmedi. > * {j,
COUNCIL OF FIVE HUNDRED* s,
7 Floreil £May 6.] ' f] c
The law for banishing the refractory prjeds was an
taken up and pafled. ... g
Phillippe Delleville proposed to exempt all the pl
Ecciefiaiii«» who hsW attained to 80 years of age. 0 f
At this age, said he, they'cannot be dangerous, p a
and humanity recoils alt thrf condTmoatk»n of AicVi th
'men to captivity. His am'endmttlr- was not, how- C o
evr adopted. ' - ow
The' Executive Direflwy »ws chargcd with the ed
necelTary measures sot cefebsating on th« 10th Prai- by
rial following, a fe*t ffie triumphs I bu
of the army in Italy* - V ex
May-ij.;, { j 'Ei
The Executive sent to the all e n
the 'p.pers refpedling that conspiracy
D'Otiet was atjtfhe head. They were 44 in num- ar .
ber. In a hatrer to the Directory, Dioutt com- ca
plains, of the Violence done at his house the ; ioth. a ei
The dirfaory deny the hct, and dcclare, tiat in W
. " r% • ' i ;
;ar- this'occurrence, tTicy leligfrmfly refpe£Ud the
house of the K,eprefeoyiikc. The Oftljncl wcut l
into committee of.tlie on tliofe jiapets, hut
came to no refolufßfc of t-Kla fubjcdt,
g. . HAVRE, May 14.
ow . following prizes he-ve arrived atßrcft,be.
tvreen the 27th Germing and 7 Fljrrzl, vi^
The E'njlifh brig..Duchef», Men v. itli Teoeiiffe
°'V* wine, takefi by the privafWr le Patriate..
The Englifb ship Erikndlhip, 140 tons, laden
with copper, cheese and ru i., #lft> Phtii'ote.
ities The Englilh Kloof* BiWger, from London, lajec
ong \vith old iron, sugar, quickfiUer, tea and dye fluffs,
rce* taken by the privateer la-Ffiintaifie'.
-tes, The English brig Nancv, fioHl Liverpool, laden
into W beer and &lt £r&«ifi»iw.
fc" . The laden .with Port
£^ r win?,-?nd cohort.'.-.. J
t ], e The Eiiglift biig Poland, from Midager and
izts Barbara, laden with 20b (ons grain.
:ap- The English {loop William, laden >vith flotir,
fait provisions and beer, bound to Newfoundland.
7' * [Thusfar tranJlationi.~j
17 Floreal, May 6.
wjr The Council resolved that on the 10 Prarial,
, ro . May 29, a nationalfeftival of vidtory (hall be cele
g a brated throughout thewfcole extent of the Republic.
crct The Diredtory was charged with the means of ex
ecution. - "
frlu Greedy, fpeculaton, under fidtitions names, mo-
-no'polize all the property ; pay for it at a trifling
part of its value, or.,account of the pref:nt depre
,en ciaiion of the Mandats, and so ruin the Republic.
tier It i> not to preserve that they purchafc, but to def
traf. Fearing the chances of the future, they haf
rhe ten to demolish the 'fcdifices, to fell the woods, to
2l fcll ever y particle of produce, and thug degrade'tll*., .
£? properties.
ap. The Comnaiflary of the Dirediory with the army
ol- pfthe Sambre and Mease, has given orders to put
t is. in requisition all th« cattlc and provifious in these
'°* departments. In the province of Luxembourg this
"S» rigorous measure created the greatell conflernation
LONDON. May 17.
Yesterday Mr. Put went to the king at Wind.*
rts so ,e feulr > *s't was said, all the preliminaries to
the difl'olirtion I such as taking his Majelty's plea.
» d sure 011 the new craation of peers ; and of tbechan
g« w} "sh arc in meditation in office. If we may
truH to rumor, these changes have been the fubjeft
of considerable negotiation, and of some wrangling.
iat The y ,tr 'B ues » «oweveu are said to be at an end,
i c . and Mr. Pitt went to■ the king with the result. '
j h We cannot speak with confidence on tbe fubjedV
as but we ar . e to!<1 Lord Grenvillehas prevailed in
il- not fuffering Lord Auckland .to come into the ca
binet, and the Duke of Portland is to be permuted
to keep hh prefer,t office with its patronage. The
, a 8 new arrangement is sard ts be, that Lord Hawkcf
at kury, with an earldom, dial] be appointed president
■rs ° f the Council, and jo feeure an office to his son.
,1- Lord Auckland is to have the board of trade, with
nt lomc other appofatmdlit.
- Sir Gilbert Elliot, whose state of health for some
time has been truly diftiefling, is immediately co- 1
ming home. Who his successor is to be, is not '
perhaps entirely fixed. We have heard |person na
med tothe office., whose firuation at hrjnc is fa
h« good as to make it lingular if Ite accept* ot it—we i -
all mean the Earl of Wellmoreland. '■■'■-k
he ■ It is considered as quite certain that PatKiuner* Aid
wiil be dilTolved on Friday f ,ext. Fhtre' wilj
courle be a new session in Oiftober next.
Mr. Morgan in hi, reoent pamphlet, has most , i; V
of clearly Oiewn the fallacy ot Lord Auckland's argil- * *'
at mcntm regard to the increife of the imports jTnd ' • •'
0 . exports. He (hews that their sudden increase &• J
!S) entirely to be afu-nbed to the war, and that it ig '
n, not commerce, but waßeful expenditure for all the
, d .ncreafesofour exports is to Germany ; while ,0
1. Portugal, Spain, the Straights, Turkey, theßri
continental territories, and the Weft-Indies
our ?xports have even dccfrafed. '
g The Empress of all the R (; ffia S , in order to ma
,d horanxiciiis ijefire of peace, has graciously con
d delcendec to limit her demands upon the your*
d Kll, g of Sweden to the following four points
,e , I- That Sweden (ball renounce all connexion,
and all commerce with the Frsnch Republic.
2 - That he spall her creature, Baron
Armteldyas lil 9 prim® rniniitcr.
3- That he -(hall deprive his uncle, the Due de\
I. budermania, ofall authority in theftate 4 and ,
[T mjt tbe young King Ihall marry her grand
d daughter. °
- These demands, the Autocratix fays, are so ma. "
n derate, and fc consistent with the relations of peace
3 and amity between neighbouring kingdoms, that
the will call God and polferity to witness, i hat the
f guilt ot involving two nations in war lies upon l.is
, head ; und she will make a holy appeal so the Di-
U l^. 3 "^ 0 a " the foverei g DS Europe, upj«j
of her caofe. '
: PARIS, April 28.
Tart Si Editor,
•' IW this morning bee» to the Hafle ati Bled
which is the great wheat market of Paris', for the
piarpofe ofobtaimag precise information of the ilate
of the markets for wheat and flour, and find la, ee
quantities on hand ; the mai ket open to any and all
' qual.ty offbeat Hour at u, J;;.
ling for one hundred pounds-French weight, or a
hundied and eight pounds American-and common
fW at ,os. and 6d. to, It has Tatelyftlkn
Bread'• t f CP T iling ° pirtl ' onthat ' l W, ' !l lower'
Bread is from three to fonr sous a pound-all l^
p enty f rom Frcnch f, our>^for l]Qt
• has been fold in Havre for several week.
past, nor a barrel brmnrht from "
T l °! 3ny ki " d mercharidize—
money , 8 the only thing in dtmand— that
ed W 'a ß 7 ge I" 3 ""'"'" thal have been export .
bvreafon g lf at K Wh,Chire hdd frum circulation
but th« C p . aper nnedium ' is «trem«ly f el , ce
but that evil 1S beginning to correct itfelf • The
,e*thaoge.is m favor of Fianec against all parts of
mfr ' Ca ' anJ wi " remaln To until tile
f c ° !ncd mone y ls re'lored, and it mav
notbe thoughtextraordinai yif theLouisand Crowns
cTSfrance P ofi,iont f '°"> Ameri,
r r i . — Jr are every where TpV
r and they are vanquiflitafc * * '♦vjf- : ; ' ' ,J>
Philadelphia, f* v
H Ir
MONDAY EVFKUNG, July iS, 17964
M STOCKS. *
»HSis per Cent. - - - - - - s - '17/6
J,Three per Cent. . 'iqfi -
jl per Cent... --- - - -- - „i 4, 1
. 41 per Cent. - -- -- -- -- 14/"
: Deferred Sis per Cent. - - - - Ijy'6 to 7 I:
J United States, - - 14 pr. cent.
— — Pennsylvania, « « - - 39
i - North America, - - - - 45
■ Insurance Comp. North-America, 14 .15
f Pennsylvania, 9<o loper cent. B
Exchange, at 60 days, ... 165 101664-3
~ fa
t A8.8.1V18 AT THIS PORT.
1 'mIVV 1 -fr
Schcronsr Tattle John, Boyd, Jeremie 16
Fortitude, Taylor, Norfolk 3
Neptune, Smith, Savannah 8 ,
•-Sl^pTHaliif r Pcarfon, Do. ' 5 d '
CLEARED.
Bag Fair Hebe, Eldridge, Amfterdara P
* Arrived at Fort Mifflin.
f panifti (hip William and Mary, Orne Gonaive d;
rig Bsifey, Holt Jamaica
Sally Stubs, dd. fa
Jane, Lillibridge New Orleans, 16 paflengers C
%hk Kitty and Maria, Tinker Jean Rabel
Mountain Leader, Collins N.Orleans fc
Nancy, Town Jerefnie
so
Arrivals at New-York.
Ship Lyon, Afher, Bermuda Ic
Joseph, Coffin, Amsterdam
Three Friends, Sherry, ditto P
Brig Maria, Bfart, Guadalupe
• jSgktt RjU Waidron, St. Croix V Y
Theresa, M'Carall, Barbadoes -=
Capt. Sherry, £rom Amsterdam, has favoured us
with the following particulars.
Arrived at Ajnfterdam, Mar 2(1, brig Ruthy,
Kemptoq, from Boston, bound to St. Peter(bujigh;
brig Camilla, from do. for do ; brig Revival, Smith, hi
of Hudson, from Havre. * T. •
May 4, arrived, ship i&lknomac, T)arby, from »
Baltimore. •* ' ,4
Left at Amsterdam the following vessels, viz. rJ
Ships Margaret, Harringtoa, to fail for Philadelphia a!
[- next day. 0
Charlotte, Alkinfos, for New-Ycrk, to fail in ic p
or 1 2 days. el
Hebe, Ferris, with paflengers for Baltimore, to h
fail next day.
Rising Sun, Davidfon, from arrived f<
May 9. ''
Scott, frem Charleston, do. ''
Fame, Havens, from Savannah. 'I
■j New-York,Clark, from New-York, arrived May 9. h
"Diana, Roffeter, do. do. |>
I Little Mary, Bamers, for St. Übes, to fail fame j
? day. P
Attive, Robinfen, do. do.
Andrew, Makings, do. do. '
Nancy, White, for Bordeaux, do. / "
Brigs Peggy, Lawrence, arrived 17th May, ftom
j from New-York, for New-York. '
( Fe«*fylvni», M-ooCt y. from Puiiadelp l '!*. "
L May 24. lat. 47, 4.0, li> 12, 30. W. spoke the a
Hmiftft' frorrTNew Y- our 6 w.ekf, ™
June 12th, lat. 44, 36. lonir. 33,00 I
If t«si aftef the difcliarge of 5" (hot by- *
r TKjTVeBUJ frigate, convoy for the Newtourtdland a
jfMkjnd after detaining us about 2 iiours permit f
K®BM>™ceed. ' J
"TOeir fleet at firft confided of 36 fail, and now c
On (he 20th June, lat. 44, 20, l*ng. 49, Sc. c
i spoke the (hip James, Parker, from Baltimore, to 1
Rotterdam, out 10 days, all well. {
, BOSTON• '
July 4. Arrived (hips Harmony, Wince, St. <
Übes; Hunter,Tibbets, Havre de-Grace ; Aftrea, r
Tinkhsm, Liveapool ; Lydiaj Ch??.te, do ; brigs, t
Patty, Snow, St. Bartholomews ; General Wayne,
Allen, Jamaica ; fchoonrrs Elcy, Lord, Tobago ; i
Nancy, Derby, Demarara ; Betsy, Hills, Rio Ef- <
fsquibo; Frie dfliip, Harlow, Martinique j Ca- :
tharine, Co*, Lisbon; sloop Union, Bolt, Can- ■
ton.
/It Brsst, May 16—The Sea-Flower, Crcm
by. of EaPcon, from Hamburg, th? Fame, Cvn- 1
ningliam, of Boston, Minerva, 1
Eldrr'ge, of Nsw-York.
The of Boston, Capt. Harlow, for Bor
deaux ; the Kary, of do. Capt. Ridle, for Setn- '
hal, i: ba!hft ; the Rogus, of do Capt. Atkirs,.
for Fi-imouth, with exchanged prisoners, Lave-fa l
ed frqrr. Brest.
•Jt' Hamsukgh, May 2 —Ship Statira, Ed
' wards, Boston j Three Friends, Bradford, do*',
Brig Two Friends, Bartol, do. Cotney, i
dd. (hi.) Eleanor, Seward, do schooner Fair !
dy, Bruce, do, brig Neptune, of Salem.
Afs.~ Übes, May 35 —The Pomona, Merril, 1
«f Pottfmouth, to 1 fa 1 in 20 days; Katy, Rider,
to fail for America i.> 25 days; Harmony, Tuck
er, of Portland, to fail in 25 days; A. Hamilron,
Congar, for New York, to fail in 20 days ; John
Trefiy, of Marble;.ead, to fail in 16 days; Lex
, irigton, M'Kintey, Alexandria, to.faiiin 30 days
—-Active, Blair, of Philadelphia, to fail in 20
days; a (hip belonging to Nev^,-Bedford) from Bred
—nams unkoowp, performing quarantine.
At Rio-EssFquiso, June 16 — bn£ Ceres
Bayley, «f Boston ; frhooper Ann, C,roee, of
Binlfwiok'r schooner He(Kr, Delano, of Boston ;
I>trtWMaicr, Leiglnon, of Bolton ; floo3_Betiy,
Wheelright7 LTTiIS t"a"rtnv",X" 't r?rrr, Wn-otk:
Capt. Burgess, of New BcdFoid, arrived here
from Alexandria, was boarded July 2, in lat. 39, 1
48; long 72, 30, from a British nigate, of 32 1
guns, who piffled one 0/ Ij fmeii, Pardon 1
Tabor, no'withftanding he Ameiwan by <
birth, and had a protection llgned by a N irary <
Public. Phere were five other Americans on board
the frigate. * 1
C.ipi. Harlow, on Sun iay. From Marlr- <
riiqce, spoke a French privateer, on is<ttuniay even
ing 'aft, about 10 leagues from Cape v.orl ;f«oa 1
lofmg fight of her, heftrd » fmarr cnnonndc,
coaUaued ao hour •, fr<?ra which he luppufcß <
1 L
Si
| i .. ■
% ' 1
- hav j with fume British force. The his
.event is rltetiknown to us; nottvifh thcije tht
ire many vague reports refpeftinjr it- fey
Ihe Lion, Capt. o"dlin, of Boston, is arrived H;
at Bourdeaux, frorn Charleston, with tobacco, ricc - fc y
and soap. of
rhe Argo, Capt., Franckford, at Havre, from ce<
Philadelphia. an(
The Emelie, Capt. Freeman, has failed from
Havre, for Gnadaloupe. fen
The Trial, Smith, yf Boston, arrived at Havre > th:
from Nantz. ii.c
The A (Stive, Snow ; and Juno, Blake, were at St:
Bottrdeaux mi-Idle of May* tut
The Star, Hubbard, and Mentor, Kaft, have f« c
failed from Bourdeaux for Ahona. - , tre
June 8, 2, ship Minerva, Turner, Cr
-horn Boston "«itfra veryfine Vhid. Jhc
6 May 31, a brig belonging to Kennebunk, R.O- of
| binfun, malter, from Charleston, bound to Lon- c<i
s do», 25 days out. de;
June 26, long. 65, brig Abigail, of and from tei
n Portsmouth, bound ta Hamburgh. nn
July 2, lat. 30, 36, long. 63, the Boston, four q ll
e days from New-York, for Hamburgh. p«
a July 4, lat. 40, 35, long. 44. schooner Areth'u- g>)
fa, Wellon, 6 days from Kennebeck ; for St. J®
s Croix. ' ' ?d
rl >jnty 2, lat 43. long 64, 30, a brig from &elcm f^
s for Qiincnbagen. . mi
e Lorig. s§ k brig Orion, Rice, from Portsmouth td,
for Dartmoutlii ' lie
May 3 .16, —, fr^m,Charlef-,
a lon for London. * ' tin
ri May to, off «he Lizard, was spoke the brig ft-j
o Polly, of Salem, from LiftvVn, lumnd to London, fti
e The Three Sifters, of Wiftf'affet, is at New. ab
x York, from Greenock, wi r ,l. a \
:s ■ ' 1 • * ■ - to
,s ■ British parliament. th
Hfcuss op Lords, Monday, May 2 A
r, , state of the NATION. W(
; The Order of the Day, " that their Lordlhips tei
i, be fummo?ed." being read, f pu
The Ma quis of Lanfdowne a«d expHefled or
n the, regret he feTTTn the anticipation fn liis owi: pe
mind, than what he had ro'fubmit to Ihe confide- ex
ration of the Houfc would nqt meet with a favoi L
a able reception 5 howler, as he it a part Sa
of his duty ta the public to come Forward od the an
O present occasion, he had rlo other ?tiernative than pi
either to do so, oi"~m cafe of entirely wiihdrawir g pi
o himfelf frem an attendance in that Hoftfe, to give bi
his reasons to the country for so doittg. He p- in
d ferred the measure of calling their X^prd atten ht
tion to what he hlfd to propose, as it. would be iefp »v
liable to create alarm than thf'other Difclsjm ii;' er
therefore, all motives of disgust or difappoi iraitht,
5. he requested their Lorddiips.Jo rerolleft the put- m
port of two motions which he fubtnitted to thi is
ie in 1779 and 1780; which, iii t o»dT to al J'i
(ill their memories in, he read as part of hjs,£peech.
The firft was in December 1779, and related to <1
the then ilate of thc-country during the American in
/ war. The second was in February 1782, to nea> »'i
m ly the fartie purpoit ; and his Lordship begged the t
House ;o reeolleft, though at that time his mot' h.
wis Wifre called anarchical and le .rtinj to confufi '
k and all that was bad,.yet h>nie (hort time af
j, wrnij and foHotvttt-trp 'bynn Hi rrr -»
o Friend of his in th« House of Comtironß, the Mi '1
,y "ilter of that day was so far under the ne. tffity of v»
ij allowing their force, tfiat he acceded to the ap- .b
; pointmcnt of a Comraiffion of Accouifis, formei' a
of independent ,ger.Ueman, both in "fortune and rr
nv character, who did fea!i in ci her Houfc- «
of Parliament. The rquls paid the higher, ti
0. ci»inplimentß to thfe aWlit.■?», the integriry, and *f<
lo indtUlry of these ge. t'rrhan, to whom he said the c
oublic were under the gre.iteft obligslioiis f»r the h
;eport they ha 4 pubiifhtS o;i the many moll import- -
ant matters committed to theii trust and research ; p
ana particularly recommended the pei'ufal of the h
ra, report to their Lordships, thattho' a
gs they might not find it so entertainir\g as Lorcwzo de 1
ie, Mtdui, they would by no means think it dry read- r
3 ; ing, and they certainly would d#ive from.it a very h
if. considerable degree of the mJ ufeful and import-* a
la* ant information. His Lord(hip said, that it was a
in- not his wilh in what was about to prop.ife, to h
lay any dire£l charge of blame or accusation a«-ainft v
m Admmiftration, but he »houghi it was Only doing ti
<n- ihem a piece of juftiee to giVe them an opportuni a
fa, ty of (h-wing, th;vt. they who had previous to their I
being -Miniftera, built on the ground work of the o
nr. ttporr he alltded to,, and rouindly maintained, that c
:n- the influence of the Crown, " had increased, was t
ns,, inc reafine, and 10 be diminished j" had ei- f<
ill, ther cairieo those measures, so strongly recom- ( I
mepded by thcrfpdrt, into effefl ; or that there p
!d v ere g?iod fufficient reasons for their not hav- n
'• ; '"g A period of 14 years "hid elapsed, H
us,. believed no one part of it had yet been put h
in'force or acted upon. Ihe Neble Marqu s* re- ;ii
quefled their Lordftlip's attention to the second ; d
ii, report, in which the (jbnfolidation of five boards jii
■r, ints one was pSrticulnrly recommended. This p
■k would have gone, if adopted, to the abolition of t
>11, fifteen places with the "falarics annexed, out of five t
bn and twenjy. His Lordlhip then referred to the c
:-x- ninth report, which'flrlated to the payment of the «
iys army, in which he said it was pointed out the great- b
20 eft confufion prevailed. The Commiffiorrrrs had \
eft said that it ought to.be reduced loHwo heads, Sub- 1<
fillence and Arrear ■, instead ef which, there were b
es payments to the right and to the left, forward and e
0 f backward, that it became so complicated a business, ii
n ; that fcaree any (3ne, much Isfs tltoft poor soldiery 6
v, who were affected by it, could a; all undefftand it. p
fit: -tla—Oi-.v'r /'ink nntiie ps tll£_.tk<utnth rcpoit, rela- i<
;re tive to the £#oans, in which he said he ridiculed the ti
19, mode of making tfiem—fo much in the three per f<
32 c- nts —so much in the four per ceiits,—a bonus, a a
on douceur—a lottery, au annuity—but' it' was very jv\
by ealy to fee for what mode was adopt- ft
X y «d—to answer the views of Minders, and let the t]
ltd public fee the fityarion they were in as little aspof- p
(ible. His Loridjltij then adverted to the tmfu .d a
li. Ed debt, and navy hills, particularly mentioned'in n
in. the I>th report, and to extraordinaries of the ar- si
oa my, iq, the 15th. The latte articjc he only (light- si
le, ly mentioned, having, he said, more 10 obferjre Up- ft
fc* 011 it in another place. The article of finances, ti
*
*- > # ,
his Lordihip filid, he fLnuld not «t *11 -bring into *>
the debate of this night, he intended that for r. JRo
. r c}>a-a*e and finale coiifideratityvon a future day. i .
Having -requeued their Lordlhips' attenxioii to thefc k;
.ffvjral points, particularly liptifed in the reports *co
of the Commillioners ps Accounts,- he. next pro- eri
needed to,animadvert on various irieafures adopted on
and pursued by adminiftralipn, which he divided dil
into twd hrads, viz. those undertaken without con- bi
sent of Parliament, ami thdfe in which they had G'
that confeut. Of the firll class, he began by no- til
ticing the appointment of a third"Secretary of re
State, a measure which, in his mind, wis no only \i,
totally unnecelVary, hgst which was dirc&ly in the :l
face of an Aft of Parli merit pr.fle 1 for tjhe re. ci
trenchment <?f the power , and influence of the art
Grown. His Lordlhip then proceeded tfy. notice e>:
the of f„ many bai racks, in various paits a
t>£ the which," be said, was a un- <0
C<»jUuiUi.irfal l «scJ#iirc r and alamifcv in t'uc highest w;
degree, to eyery one for she li- ici
bertics of the country. They were, he i.iid, so ve
m-toy foitrffles, jed" nothii (j less; and lie., re. i"j
queited thtir. Lordship's recpHedfen of the o dr
pinion whiih the learned jisdge Blsckllone I.aj ye
givjjfftti h.s coramentai ics an tiie laws of England, it I
>>6nc6rniiig tlve : illegality aid danger which attend an
ed their being allowed. He coridemned; in very ib
fevereterms, the appropriation of so large a furn of fin
money as they are to port, without any Application be
td, or ronfent of parliament. He then took .110- trie
tiee of, the_mlraotdinaries of the army, which l.e tri
laid were carried to a length that was- frightful to w)
think of ; and in of his alTertion on this ce
fubj.&j bis Lotdlhips, after paying many high and eli
ftijking compliments to the author for his great (h
abilities and found .judgment, read an extrad from ir.j
A work published by Mr. Hatfell, principal cleik nj
to the House of Commons, in which he dates,with oil
the greatelj force afld perspicuity, that the ji
American war the extiaorcTinaries of the army <,1
were ft> enotmous as to exceed the ellimates gran
ted by.pailiament ; so that a larger furtr'of the >tl
public money was thus expended by miniftevs with
out, than with tlie. content of parliament}' whose tft
peculiar ('ury it was to fee to, and t* eonltpul the so
expenditure of every (hilling. He entreated their ti
Lordships particular attention to what Mr. Hatfell n
had so ably and intelligently wrote tVn this head,' h
and said he waiud forgive.all those newspapers which, h
pretended to principle, all.the ttonfenfe they might; si
put into his mouth as having said, if they wouldl (1
but print and reprint what Mr Hatfell had writteti '1
in so true and malteily a maru.ei : alluring the h
tioiilc, that'in thole pralft's (:« beftowild op the x
work he was actuated by rio ofhet motives whiter
er, but that of doing ftrkS juliicc to what so truly n
inferred it. The marquis ttien proceeded to com i
ment on the traufpurt board, which he ;
is si wi'h great ocpence 10 the tountry in ;
naval war, which was not the most aufpiiious ill iU f
i-oirfequepces, a»d at the iame time was not Co,
■ uctc/i with thai service to the public yMlich it i
might be, ' y b?ing cntrufted to fotne a&ive indi- »
vidual merchants,or taken into the hands of govern
ment. Iniloil, this plan he thought vvuu'dhethe f.
hcit for them't<» have theii ovyn traafports, and a v
.'mimttance which occiin tcl in the American * vcol
? fifr the ctefe vf'tftu' f
-wwi t 1 r.t r/n f1 i-iyfporw was-Amk, i
■hat at pcifce, the ar y was lihqet the necessity of
waiting it New York and othe- places a confidera- i
■ ble time for want 1 f transports to bring them away
and if the war had bee& to he continued, govern- •
merit would hive found their hanijs completely tied i
up from on velthit. Beficles, it was not only t
the 'wpti-ce.of this b'uard that he fount! i
( *faul. witlv; he had heard alf.>,s th»t it was to be- 1
• come rfejK ace ellablrlhraeirt, appearances, f
hi.- yr»si{r»td there weregroardsfir the"f«ppofition 1
. —The gentlemen who compofjM it fcemcd to be .1
; pretty snugly lituated —they hjid got a house, and_ I
; he believed a neceflary womw also—and lie'.was 1
' afraid they would not be got,rid of easily. Hii 1
t Lordthip then came to those tneafurei which had 1
. received the fanfliion of perliameßt—and the firll i
f he mentioned was, the India bill, which he cal'ed 1
. an enotmous mountain of influence ; a huge s wide' (
s and deep gulph of corruption. The little red Wik 1
y he defctibed at, a l'wollen big-bellied thing which <
1 would footi be the only object of a library, and pa- |
r as an elephant that be introduced as t
an ornamented figure to fill up the other parts of it. 1
r He wsi very severe cotydcmnation of it, as an- j
c overgrown means of eplargirin beyond all power of <
t ■ calculation, thit iipfliieVue if the Crown, whfch 1
< those who framed ft had far fore said, "had increa- |
. fed. was increafnyg, and oitjht to be diminilhed." i
. ,He then cafled the attentijn of the house to the ;
e polict bill, which b'_- hici hJd palled as a temporary t
measure, at a time wh*n he Ivas in the country, or he j
, should have gf»¥n'his'opabfnion to it. Tins bill, «
he understood, was (h.ortly to come before the house t
. in order to be made a peimauent one. He con-.
3 demricd the principle of it as unconstitutional, and .
s | law no reasoN why it Aoujd not be upon the fatoe
3 plan bs that of the city of|L.ondon, wl>ere the- wor- ■
f thy Aldeißiirt) okirttier nad pteferved the peace etl
e tire and without having occasion to
e call in the aid of one single man of that deftn'pti >n,
- which had been so much extolled by some. He
. believed it was nrteuded to throw the police of
1 Weftmiiitter ent'irtly into the hands of a certain
- learned ptoftfGon, and perhaps ere long that would
e be extended to the cmtV.try, and the chairman of
j every quarter would be a lawyer f cm. the
, inntofcourt ; hut for'his part, he though; the
f- Ontfs \M|u)d h< as well, if riot better, done by the
. plain ho«'«ft perfo -s, to whom by the conftituuorv
. it was now fonfided. His lyordrtiip having men
e tidned. these fcvcral points, said, he had one to ob- c
r serve upon, which \tm of greater magnit\>d« than
a all the reft—the clause in an a<st of Grttf'gc 11.
f ! which had tepeahd a fundamental part of thecon
- llitution ct the bant of England, and empowtfrd
e the governor and dire to lend any sums they I
- pleafetj tq minifteis, to anj amou-at. This was to
all intents and putpofes making the bank.a parlia
-1 1 rneut, for minirters might obtain larger fupplws f
- from the hank during the reccfuh'an they'could
from parlif.ment irfelf while it was fitting. Having
- said thus much, the marquis said he would not fin
, ther troubfe their I.ord'hips, than to r.eitii the mo-
, - ■ -• jp -e ■
•/. - N
tmr he hsd to fu!.mit to the. confidefation
j hoiaf- , vhich+.e did as fiiU.nvs : . ,
1 ",V"hat this house fees that no (leps have b"{n
kec,f .0 carry into efiV<3 the reform i;i t,r.e pirbhc ac»
coLts ,ts, accort!i»g to ihe report of the rOSnridi-Mi
ers trf 1 public accounts. It isllutrfuli Mfcfrwucftt
onrthis house to inquire into the, c mfe of so e*t.;i»r
dif .ary an qmifuob-; whetht 1 any «» of&< es have
If -'a created, whether any old Varies have beei. i.i."
(i'rt-Xfed, ind whether ntw: falartes l.ave been gjiTit
t*i 1 for .pecial .purposes, and com iwned thoui;li the
rt afons r them have ceased. on the
vriiether the pu])lic expcnces hjvc increased bt yv d
tftf typ'pltw a iritially granted hy Piol'-.mer.i. 'i hefe
ci q«irir-, ulu'eh are at all times a r'ttty, are ntgent
»4ifldfipeiiWjle in a couult, at o«cc bioodv <;nd
ejipenfive beyond the example l \f any former j
a \ oiitiil,j*itiiytM pjariVor oljedl, except y>ha[ tlit
(oi du'fi of the wAr firft »e.ued,,ptten le'd with 3
w;tl tie of njoljey beyondimagmatiun, wh" h hat ai
ieA iy reduccii.our'trade to a depeodince upon tlrat
vert war for its fuppoit, Ah'ieh has funciimejitaily
iiyij red i> ; and lias lo exhan3ed t>ur rtfonrces n» to
dri* e as.to 1 cvivr those fax. s which hare he'en 3 few
yeaj s ago repealed, unde> the idea ''qf its being i.e-
prevent the diminution 'of ilie 'revenue,
and!policy which mullaga,in- be resorted to,upon
thei-etuwi of peace, and will create a nec;{Ti.y of
find'iiig our taxes, if new and productive taxes' <an
be invented in our } hen cxhaulied ttate.
tiof Iso alarmi Jt> and so marjiteftly tending to def.
troy the Confidence of the people in' Parliament,
which every refleiting man mu'l with great (on-
have ohferved, for a f*w years toberapidly de»
clitiing, and which mud Ililldecline unless Parliament
, fhjf 11, by a timely revival of its ancient energy and
ins cgrity, convince the people that they are deter
m| inedto come forward, with ftieh public medfiKea ,
olf order arid reduilion as may tend to cl.eck the
(1 rogrefs of t"V»e preferit system, which if pursued,
inevitably terminate in public cotvfufion."
The Lord Chancellor having afterwards read
the motion.
Lord Gfeliville rose, and Lid, that he felt him
tfelf utfdcr codfiderable dlfijcul y Low to answer, 14
one.argument, two tilings so different in their r.a
---r ture as the speech of the Noble Marquis, and the.
1 m tion with which lie had concluded it. The No
,l hie Marquis had, in his speech, expressly said, that
\ he (hou'd not, on the prcfent occasion, go itito the
t; fubjetS fef Finance, and yet the motion expressly
il states, " that the war has already reduced our > rbSc
h to adepenciance on itfelf for fupport,and has so ex
e haulted our refotitccs, as to drive us to revive taxes
v. which had been repealed." His Lcndihip -said,
. his was cettainiy alluding to our Finances very
J materially, and put him to the necessity of obftr'v-
I- ifig to their Lordfl.ips, that it called upon rhem to
c, vido every thing which they had tfeen dinny du
'< iisgth? last three years, meuly on the afTer.jun of
he Noble Marquis, for which he certain!} bp.cf not
any proof, and which he would take upon
it i.irn to fay, was r.»>t foyndid in fa<S I for th, ; t our
i- i rade had been repeatedly shewn to be in a more
1 urofperous and ftourifiiing ftatc than it had ever *
i.e \ycen renumbered M any former period, during the ''
a continuance of a fcac,' Having thus denied tht
» Jata oT the motion, his Lordfh'ip proceeded to com-
upon speech, arid in doi'.g thic,
sf :ii a mqi'if unprepared fta e, not having the smallest
a- :ue»,'frvm the papers on the table, that so many of
y he -poiat-a alluded to woiil3 be taken up in the
II- manner they were ; and being thus unprepared, he
:d fliould be obliged,to, speak to them feverallyji as"
ly thay arof« from mere rtfcolleftion, ia doing which,
f if his memory in any degree inaccurate,
e- tie hopeil their Loi.d/hips would make allowances, ■
s, for h« them he would not willingly fay artT • .
111 or jpiflea Hr> the lead. The No
>e . hi: Marquis had n|att?r a»a cruet ice
id. by ti/fi y the l ondufi of+Adminillration, du
as. 14'yrars,by. those profeflfonswhich,,
is tee'lavs; tney made previous to their becoming Mi.
id , nifters r,for his-own part, he was not at that tirr.ff
-1 in ParWment at ali 1 iit)»could, he recolieft r.tich, ,
:d figam per fun al knowledge, 6f what were the ptecifs
fC deChiMUOns of the pr.rties to whom the Msrquis al
k luded. *' TSkinT it, howifver, froni the ftatetnents
h of the NoH)< Ntqrqyis hipjfdf, he could boldly as
a- fert, thavmany thittgs had beer, done corifonant t3
"» thfc i4ea» vvliich hatfbecn mentioned as so undid on
t. the lep'orts on the talS'e'. 'His Lordlhip began by
iw* r.n tht firft j^jiofc.adduced by the Mar
of quia-—the confulidation-of intyare^
th which,.he said, might perhaps be' ah itlra tkat Wjj"' l !
a- suit a Peace Eilahlilkwiitht, which certainly
' would Would not answer mj time o£ war ; and the
ie affaiis of the nation be more advan
■y tageoufiy a<Jftiriiftered by IVtriany different bpfi'(|«,
ie all of which fine labthtr
11, enough, and he not rnSre lily of
fe theli zeal, abilities, and industry, fharf-iKty defei v'ed.
(To %4 concluded h; our nfmt.J
id - , \ i > * f-; 1 - *
ie . TO '
r * 5 *f* -f;'
V Piece Signed w.- Quf _
° - r:: •.y i ■ ■',> , —&•' ..
e Philip Nicklin & Co.
if HAVE FOR SALE,
n •Souchong ■» *
J Hyson Skin /
jj- Young Hyson > FRESH TEAS j
Hyson and \
" Imperial .
YeHow Nankeens
China Wart, iflorted in Bolrs and Chests
n QuickClver
i- Uandanbo Handkerchiefs of excellent quality in
chefls ■ %
n London Market *. V.MADEIRA WIN r
r London particular S- in® Ripes, hogftreads, &
New-York' Market J quarter calks
' Teneriffe Wine in pipes and hogfkeads
° Sugar Can;!wbythe 80*...
y Sail Canvas' No. i a 8
o Leail in (heets
i- 3 Calks of lutleryaflnrted
rs A few chests of Mancheflei-Goods, aflorted thielf*
j sets, cords, flriped Nankeens, &c.
3 Small packages of bl?ek f'-w irtg-fiiks
' S TTdrctfs Virginia Snake-root.
Nails aflorted in calks
■>- July t8 mwiTlf< r~ ' w%
China Goods.
' H L dh;p .V vi.<\ n-s|£, -SHaf Sroaine t Camman®c*r,
A from* (Linton, will xfo&imep discharge of her 4
»r£<? to-morrow morning wharf (
V * ' Ctofiftnf of 1
't eUovT and wijite N.inVa|fci"*of i-reellent quality a
Prrikn black and 4
Lustrings, ■ V do! , do. Vli
S.ittinj hiick of various quaßtiei 0
;>ewmg silks !it afTorted colours . 0
Vermillion in boxes 1 0
Cafp.a in chefls a
Quicksilver in jars f
BOHEA, 1 e
SOUCHONG, 1
HYSON SKIN, j T? n -r c
young hyson r * rein 1 eas* 1
3EST HYSON, 1
IMPERIAL, J (
CHINA WARE, ornamental, with Table and Ten 1
Sets generally afTorted. '
WHITE SUGARS, and a quantity of
firft quality Bengal SALT PETRE.
For Sale by
Philip Nicklin & Co.
April 8. . t.th&«
No. 138.
Dijlrifl of Pennfyl-vania: to wit.
BE it remembered, that on the twenty-fourth day ps Jcuue,
in the twentieth year of the Independence of the United
States* of America, John Ormrod, of the (aid Diftrift tyith
cepofited in this omte the title of a book, the right
he claims a« Proprietor, in the words following: to wit:
![ A short and candid Enquiry into the proofs of Christ's
41 divinity; in which Do&or Priestley's opinion concerning
'* Christ is occafionallv considered. In a letter to a frien*«. ,
By Char les H. Wmarton, D. D. and Member of tfc e
Philolophieal Society of Philadelphia.
44 "Whosoever drmeth the Son the not the Fath -
Let that therefore abide in you which ye have, heard
•'"from the beginning ; if that which ye have heard from th*
beginning shall remain in you, ye alio (hall continue in
" the son and in the father. St. John, tftEpift. c. ii. v.23, '
" 24."
in'conformity to the aft of the Congress of the United States 1
intituled il An aft for the encouragement of learning, by fe- 1
curing the copies of Maps, Charts and Books, to the authors i
and proprietors of such copies, during the times therein <
mentioned.*' SAMUEL CALDWELL, <
Clerk of the Diftrift of P«nnfylva»ia. 1
June 29 ia4ww \
All persons having demands ■
en ANTHONY ROLAND BUSSIFR, are requested to 1
bring in their accounts on or before the firft day of August 1
next, or they will be excluded from » dividend then to
take place. WILLIAM CHANCELLOR,") ' b
JONATHAN JONES, f Auditors r
JOSIAH TWAMLEY, J y
July 7- 'eod3t °
For the use of Schools.. f.
Tomkins's Text, Round, and Running- 'J
hand copies. v
TUST pub] i (bed, and for sale by Vit. Young, the corner of a
Sccond and Chetnut ftrects, and J. Ormrod, No. 41 p
Chefnut-ftreeu Pfice of proof imprefgons on fine paper, 1 a
dollar. Common, 75 cents. Executed in a ftyje superior <|
to any that have been formerly engraved in the United States, ij
and not inferior to any of the kind imported from Europe. n
June 30. aav^.^w
JOHN PAUL JONES. ;
r [FORMATION is hereby given, that the late John It
Paul Jones was a proprietor of five {hares (amount- q
ing to about 5867 icres) in a trail of land purchased by n
the Ohio Cojnpaflf, in the territory of the United States
of America, north-weft ot the river Ohio ; and that his it
heirs, or legal representative, on application to the direc- tl
tors of said company, at Marietta in the territory afore- t<
said, will receive a deed of the said five scares, or rights aj
of land. f(
The application maybe madeperfonally or by an age*t,
but proper documents must be produced to prove the P
claimant or claimants the legal heirs or representative of
the feiil Jones.
n.b. As it is not known in what country the person
or persons interested reside, it will be an aA ofbenevolence
i« every Printerin America and Europe, who Avail insert ••
this advertisement in his paper. J
In behalf of the directors of the Ohio Company, H
RUFUS PUTNAM. a
Marietta, May 20,1796. [June 4] jawgw t
AN EXPENSIVE ASSORTMENT OF
Books and Stationary, r
Wliolefale and Retail, now opened and for Sale by
WILLIAM rOUNGi
Book feller, Nt. 52, Corner of Second and Cbefnut-Jlreeti.
AMONG which are English, Latin, and Greek
Classics and Dictionaries, Divinity, Law, His
tory, Travels, Voyaces, Miscellanies, and themoft
esteemed Novels.
WRITING AND PRINTING PAPERS,
From the bed mairufa&urers in Europe, and from his ma- J
mifa&orj on Brandy wine, viz. w
Imperial,plain and wove ilAtSmall folio post, phi* d;
Suner-royal do. do. Ditto gilt [ '
Royi'l do. do. Blossom paper afTorted a '
Medium do. do. Transparent folio post ai
Ddmy do. do. Superfine and cemmoafoolfc. al
Glazed arid hot-preflsd folio Marbled papers. g
and 4to extra largr post coarse papers. b;
Thick post in folio dito do. London brown, afTorted al
Ditto in 4to. ditto do. Hatters' paper ri
Folio wove post, lined Stainers' paper
Quarto ditto do. Common brown
Ditto gilt do. Patent sheathing
Common size folio post Bonnet boards
Ditto quarto, plain Binders' Boards.
Folio and quarto post, gilt, _ >
yilfo, a variety of other Stationary Articles, viz. \
Wedgwood'and glass philosophical ink stands, well alTort- J
; pewter ink chests of various fires ; round pewter ink
(lands j paper, brass, and polifbed leather ink ftmds for the j,
pocket Shining land and land boxes, pounce and pounce ,
boxes, ink snd ink powder. Counting house and pocket pen
knives of the bcflquality, as« Ik'n tablet and memorandum F
books. Rrd and colored wafeis, common size, office'ditto. *"
Quills, from half a dollar, to -three dollars per hundred, d
Black lead pencils, mathematical instruments, &c. &c.
All forts and fixes of Blank Books, ready made or made I
to order . Bank checks, blank bills of exchange and notes of ]
hand, executed in copperplate, bills of lading, manifefts 1
seamen's articles and journals, &c. &c.
June 18 ( »»3W s
This Day is publiihed, 1
By
BENJAMIN DAVILS, No. 6S Uigh-Jlreet, 1
And
V/JLLIAM COBBETT, Second-Jlreet, oppoftte Cbrift's i
Church, t
The Second Edition of
Porcupine's Bloody Buoy, \
With adilitional Notes and a copious Appendix.
July ii 2aw4t
: The IPANORAMA,
Tjrj iigh-flreet, exhibiting a view of the cities of Lod- 1
j on and Wottminfter, will positively close on Tucfday
evening, the 19th iultant, and will not be exhibited in
Philadelphia again. _ (
J«0 13 "
*
f-,
-FOR SAL E,
A very; Valuable Eft ate,
G alled r nh a m, fitu»te in the
tov/nfliip of Upper Derby, ar>d county of lNilaw.tre,
7 1-2 miles from Philadelphia, and half a mile from'the
QC.w Weft ;rn road : cpntaimng 2.30 acre? of excellent lan 1,
45 of which are good watered meadow, ac*of primc..wo6d
land, and there'll arable of th« firft quality.
- on the a gopd two story .bricic house, with 4 rooms
, on a floor, and cellars under the wfrolp, with a ptimp-wcll
of excellent winter jp front ;-a large frame barn, ilabUs,.
and other convenient buildings ; a smoke-house and flone,
; tv.-o good apple orclr.irds, nnd one of peich
cs. The fields are all in clover, except those immediately
under tillage, and are so laid out as to.have the advantage
of water in each of them, which renders it peculiarly con
venient for grazing.
The (ituation is pleasant and healthy, and from the high
eultrvntiop of the Land, the good neighbourhood, and the
vicinity to the city, it is very suitable for a gentlerhan's
1 country taut.
The fpregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Herman,
deceased, and offered for sale by
Mordecai Lewis,'
'Qfl. 9. eo-3 Surviving E^ecntftr.
PROP OSA LS,
By BIOREN & MADAN,
For publishing by Subscription, that celebrated Work,
Godwin's Political Justice.
1 From the last London Edition.
1 t e * m s.
f I. It will be published in two large volumes,duodecimo.
IT. Price to Subfcribers,two dollars, handsomely bound,
s to be paid <m delivery of the work,
; 111. As soon as a number of Subfcribers^appear, fu(s
- to defray the expence, it fha.ll be put to press.
: IV. The names of the Subscribers ihall be prefixed,
The following Chara&er of this work
j is extraflcd from the Monthly Review, p 311, 31a, for
March, 1793.
" We have no small degree of pleasure in announcing
the present work to ou'r readers ; as one which from the
freedom of its enquiry, the,g;randeHr qf its,views, and the
; fortitude qf is eminently deferying of atten
tion. By this eulogium, wc would by no means be under
stood to fubferibt to Ml the principles which tKefe volumes
contain. Knowledge is not yet arrived at that degree of
certainty which is re<iuifite, for any two men to think a
like on all lubjecU; neither has langpage.attained that con
fident accuracy, which can enable them to convey their
[thoughts, even when they do thinkaiilae, in a manner pei-
I CeSly correA and intelligible to both. These difficulties
i re only to be overcome by a patient, incefiant, and bene
volent inVeftigatian.
" Many qf the opinionswhich this work contains, are
'bold; some of them are novel; andfomcdoubtlefsare er
roneous : —but that which ought to endear it even to those
jphofe principles it may offend, is the strength of argu
ment adduced in it to prove, that peace and"order molt ef
fectually the happiness after which political re
formers ate panting ; —that as the progress of knowledge
is g radual,,political reform ought not to be precipitate ; —
and that eotrvulfive violence is dangerous not only to indi
viduals (for that result comparatively would be qf small
account) but, to the general cause of truth. It is the op
posite ef this principle that inspires the enemies of politic
al enquiry with so much terror ; it is the supposition that
change must inevitably be attended by the turbulence and
injustice of commotion; and that innovation cannot be
made without the interven-ion of evils , more deftru&ive
than those which are intended to be reformed. Under the
cor.vision of this philanthropic fentimcnt, of calm and
gradual reform, (which in its proper place he has fully il
lustrated) Mr. Godwin proceeds without scruple firft to en
quire into present evil, through itseffential branches, and
next to demoHftrate future good.
" Dividing his work into eight books, and making thi
IMPORTANCE PJ POLITICAL INSTITUTIONS the fubjejl of
the flrfl, he begins by an attempt to prove, th/ omnipo
tence of government over the moral habits of mankind ;
and that on these moral hafcits their wisdom, virtue and ,
felicity depend."
$3" Subscriptions received by the publishers at their <
Printing Ofiipe, back of No. 77 Dack-ftreet, Philadelphia. ,
Jane ig § iweoim |
Asjheton and James Humphreys, \
CONVEYANCERS,
HAVE removed their office to No. 61, Walnut-street,
next door but two to the corner of Dsck-flreet, .
where all INSTRUMENTS IN WRITING aredrawn at (
a moderate Charge, with care, accuracy and dispatch.— (
They likewise buy arid fell Real Estates upon commis
sions, and procure Money upon Loan on good security.—
The business of in ATTORNEY AT LAW and NOTA
RY PUBLIC is also tranfadted at the said office as iifual
by . ASSHETON HUMPHREYS.
N. B. Good Notes discounted.
July s■ eo6w
Ten Dollars Reward. j
Ran away,
JUNE 13d, from Brian M'Laughlin, living at Henry '
Clymer's place at .Schuylkill point, a Young Woman, '
who pasTes by the name of Polly Morrison, low set,
darkifii complexion, small grey eyes, about seventeen or c
eighteen years of age, had on a dai-k-colored short gown, ]
and linfey petticoat. She stole and carried away a trunk
and a considerable sum of money, and a great many other '
articles. Left behind her a cloak of coating lined with
green baize, which is supposed ta be stolen. The owner,
by proving property may have it. Whoever lodges her iB
any goal, so that fhs may be brought to prosecution, fiiall
receive Ten Dollars Reward.
June 28 iaw3* BRIAN M'LAUGHLIN. c
Law Book-Store, (
No. 313, High Street.
GEORGE DAVIS begs to inform his profeflionai C
friends, that per the Ceres just arrived from Lon
don, he has received the Following i'carccand valuable
books. State Trials, Ii vol. in 6 and 11 vol. Ruff
head's Statutes at large, 16 vol. Woods' Jnftitutes, 1
Coke's Entries, Kartell's do. Browne's do. Hearnes c
pleader, Coke's ad, 3d, and 4th Institutes, 2 vol. Roll's t
Abridgment, Brooke's do. Bulftrode's Reports, Roll's
do. 2 vol. in 1, Floyers Protflor's prat Sice, Clarke's
Admiralty, Rutherford's Institutes, Deinology, or the
Eloquence and Logic of the Bar. These with his very
large colleiJlion from Dublin now on hand, will enable
him to supply an entire library or a (ingle book, as ;
gentlemen may have occasion on their immediate apt
plication. <
July 14. 2W2W !
The Public are refpe£tfully <
r informed, that all business in the line of a BROKER con- 2
tinues to be tranfa&ed at the office of the fubferiber, No.
234, Market-ftrcet, nest door to the land-office, who re
turns his thanks for the patronage he has already been fa
vored with.
Lands, Su. for sale, in various parts of the United
States*-Particulars of which may be feea on application. '
Corr?cl numerical bcoks will be kept of the
ton and Canal Lotteries, No. a, and Information given 1
where tickets may be had
Money procured on good note; at the shortest notice. 1
, MICHAEL GILL.
N. B. A complete assortment of Patent BOLTING
CLOTHS, American manufaiflvrc. July 8. {gisvviw
. *' '' :: |
To be Sold,
At No. uS, North Second-Street, and by frotral of
4be Apothecaries in this City.
TRANSFERS of the right to remove pjin sand mflamma
tion« fTorn the-buman b«dv, as fecurcd txi D r. ELISHA
PERKINS, by patent, with uiftf.uments and directions ne
ceilarvior the practice. This mode of treatment if particu
larly ixtffok in relieving pains in the lieadf face, teeth, brea'.l,
fide, flomach, rheumatisms, recent .pouts, &£• & c *
Notwit'nftanding the utility of ibis pra&ice, it is not pre
-1 famed but there are cases in which this and every other
retried v may sometimes tail.,
, * June 18, 13w
War-Office of the United States?,
May' 4th, 1796.
TPfE following Rules, explanatory of sthofe published
the ijth February, 1789, are to be observed by all
1 person? entitled to Lands, in purfuaaceof refolvea of
: Congress,. "
5 Every certificate of the acknowledgment of a deed or
power of'attorney, either before a notary public of other
» magi (Irate, must, in addition to what is ufuat, feb fprth
that the parson making the acknowledgment is known to
the notary or other magistrate ; for wnich purpose wordt>
of the following import mud be inserted in the
" And I do moreover certify that the said A B making
this acknowledgment has been for personally
known to me."
If the notary or other magistrate has reason to believe
that he istheperfon he represents be, he wil"
also certify :t.
Andifthe proof be made by a witnefsorwitrielTes,h«x)r
tfitymuft swear to fomegeneral (lateof thdir knowledge ot
him, which matter must be set forth in the certilicate ; and
' the notary public, or other before \vh»m
acknowledgment is made, muit also set forth that the wit
neis or witnefles has or liaye been for upwards of
personally known to him. • • '
If a justice of the peace is employed, the clerk of the
court of. the corporation or county ntuft certify that such
person i$ a justice of the, peai?e oft therouinty or corpora
tion as the cafe may be, and that full faith is due tw his
a&sasfuch. JAMES M'HENRY,
Secretary of War.
May iz. 1 avJsm
George Dobson,
BEGS leave to inform the Stc*re-Keepers in Town aqd
Country, that he ha» removed from Market-Street to
N°* 25, south Third-street,
where he is opening a Large and Elegant Assortment of the
undermentioned articles—viz.
Superfine London Cloths and Kerseymeres,
Yorkshire second Do. Do.
Elastic do. do.
Mijt'd;*nd 3iue Coatings
Flannells, See.
Manchester Printed Callicoes,
London Chintz ditto,
Blue and ditto Furnitures,
India dijjo,
Long Cloths, Coflaes, Baftaa, Battillas& Conjevrems,
4-4 9-8 5-4 & 6-4 Superfine India Book Muilins,
4-4 and 9-8 India Book Handkerchiefs,
4-4 and 9.8 Scotch ditto,
4-4 &6>4 plain do Mufli.as,
4-4 & 6-4 British Jaconet?,
6-4 British Checks and' Stripes,
4-4 India do. do. do.
4-4 ditto Chilloes, Madras Handkerchiefs, See,
.A large affoitment of figur'd and plain Mqflinets,
Quillings, Dimities, and Striped Nankeens,
Fancy Waiftcoatings,
Ginghams of the firft Quality, fubjeft to Drawback^
India Nankeens,
Men's White and coloured Silk stockings.
May 9
For Sale,
A Valuable Grift and Saw Mill,
IN New Jersey, near the Forks of Little Egg-Harbour.,
The Grift Mill is sixty by forty feet, two water wheels, j
and calculated for four run of Stones, with screen, fans
and boulting-cloths, &c. The Saw-Mill has two faws,and
capable ofcuttingfiveto ; 6 ioo thoufandfectof Boards per
year. A valuable piece ef Cedar Swamp, within a mile
and a half of the Mill, and within three quarters of a mile
of a Landing The Lumber, &c. may be taken by water
from the mill tail.
ALSO FOR SALE,
Several Valuable Tra&s of Land,
In Pennsylvania, for all of which payment will be receiv- '
ed in the notes of Messrs Morris and Nicholfon, or in
Ca(h.
For further information apply to the Printer. '
W»y I T> saw
JOSEPH COOKE,; !
GOLDSMITH JEWELLER, |
The corner of Market and Third-streets, Philadelphia; "
MOST refpe&fully informs his friends and the public, i
that he has received, per the iaft arrivals, a com
plete and general aflortment of almost r
Every Article in his Line;
Immediately from the manufactures of London, Bir- 1
mingham, and Sheffield, all of which are of the newest ,
falhion, and will be feld, wholesale and retail, en the .ow
eft terms, and the Notes of Mr. Robert Morris, and Mr. p
JohnNicholfon received in payment at their current value,
N. B. The upper part of theHoufe in which he now 6
lives to be let, furnifhet! Pr unfurnilhed. jaw i
Lottery and Broker's Office, a
N* 64. South SecondJlrett, f
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery No. II,~ are now reft- "
sale, a Check Book kept for the examination
of Tickets, and Prizes paid, without dedu&ion. ''
The Subscriber solicits the application of the Public or
any ot his friends who wifli to purchjfe or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange, or Notes, Houses, Lands, '
Lotts or Merchatldize of any kind, or to obtain Money *
on (Ecpofit of property.
WILLIAM BLACKBURN,
Late J gent for the Canal Lottery Company.
Shares an i Tickets in the late Newport Long <
Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery examined; a
complete lift of all the prizes having been received at
this office.
June 6. w&s
#
Public Notice is given,
rO the merchant, and orhers concerned in the (hipping '
at Srate-Ifland, under quarantine, that a Cart will '
attend every mo.ning, sundays excepted, from nine to i
ten o'clock, at the Health office, No. i% Wa)nut-ftrect, to 1
convoy provisions or other Refrelhments to the Hospital, '
and for the use of the crews.
It is expe&ed that the Bags, Baflcets, or other packag- '
es with replies, will be direded with th« name of the vef- !
fel and captain fti*y are intended for, to prevent milUko '
at delivery.
By order of the Board of Health'for the port of Phila>- '
delphla, LEVI HOLLINGSWORTH, Chairman.
July H § .<
Insurance Company of N. A.
TPHE Dividend agreed upon by the Dircflors, for the
A la ft fix months, is One Dollar- and One Eighth of a
Dollar on each Ibarc of stock in this Company; which
will be paid to the Stockholders or their legal rcjirefenta
tives, at any time after the 21ft instant.
Ky order of the Directors,
IiBENEZER HAZARD. Scc>y.
July 1* m&ttji't
For Sale,
f A Few Calks of Firit Quality
INDIGO.
K Enquire at No. 71, South Water ftr«et.
May - - ftf
)• "GEORGE HUNTERT" :
t . : C'H-Er MIS T, ' ■
" . No. 114 SoMth TSecond Street,
HAS for thele two years part introduced a newfpccies
of PERUVIAN BARK, called YELLOW |
BARK, which after repeated trials Jjy the principal
Physicians of this, city, is now preferred in ill cases, of
importance that require it, to the bcft Jiad and Pale
:t * Bark. It is a powerful Astringent Bitter, fits'well on
l ", the stomach, is certain in its effects, and requires only
0 half the usual qiiantftyfor adofe.
Many of the citizen? of Ph;l.irtct}rh:a -rc-now ac
quainted with its virtues, the knowledge of whirl*
ought to be extended over she Unipn. Hi; has a large
to fuppl/bf the Yellow Bark, and a general aTorrmcnt of
ds Drugs, Colours, Glass', Dye Stuffs, &c. '
'«•, . ' LIKEWISE, ~ .
]y Salt Petre, Jalap, and Carriphor,
By the -Quantity.
ve May 19. *iaw7t
FIFTY DOLLARS REWARD.
or.
c { nAN away from the fubferiber living near Churck '
1( j !v Hill, Qu'en Anns County in the State df Maryland'
- about the firit of January last, a black negro,man, named
Sam, about thirty years of age, ; feet 8 pr 9 inches high,
has a crooked finger, on one hand, and one leg and foot
smaller than the other, fome'what round-shouldered, his
!e cldathing unknown. Any person who wilt or"
bring said fellow home, so that 1 may get him again ihaU
a . have the ibove reward with reiforiatile chargfcs.
lis WILLIAM -JACOBS.'
4- * uwim,
Mr. FRANCIS,
(Of the New Thcatrt) '
TAKES this opportunity of returning thanks to hi*
scholars and to the public. Mr. Francis
to on his return from Maryland, to open a public aca
demy for dancing, upon a plan entirely new. He
flatters himlelf that his attention to his pupils hi
• therto renders any of condut!\ipg his future
schemes on the rtioft liberal and ftrj&eft terms, of pro
priety, totally unnece/Tary.
N, B. Private tuition as usual.
University of Pennsylvania,
July 16, 179®.
r P'HE Summer Vacation will take place on Monday next,
x the 18-h inft, aDd continue for Four weeks. —Thediffej" ■
ent Schools with the several Tui o'is will accordingly re
aflemble on Monday, thp ljlh day of Au-;uft.
CO3 By the Faculty, W M , Rocirs, Sec'y.
NOTICE.
ALL perfoss having Bufincfs with JAMES SWAN, Esq.
*re desired to apply at Mr, John V/iuchad's, No. icq So.
Front-Street —For J AMES SWAN.
ROBOLPH ESCHMANN; /
>'y 8. i
Rofs & Simfon,
HAVE FOR SALE,
French Checks
— Stripes
Printed Cottons
' Muilincts
Table Cloths and Napkins
Nankeens of an excellent Quality per the package, fit
s, for the Weft India market, and entitled to the Drawback
is Grey Ginger in bags
d Superior old Sherry in quarter casks
r A few pipes and quarter calks Lisbon Winas ~
e J une S 2W
e J w
proposals
FOR CARRYING THE
Mails of the United States,
_ On the following routes, will be teceived by the Pollniafttr <
j at Savannah, until the firlf day of September next.
1. From Savannah by Sunbury to Newport li lid 'e, once a
week.
Receive the Mail at Savannah every Saturday bv 9 A M, jr
. rive at Sunbury by 6P M, and at Newport IS 1 on Sun
day by to AM. Returning. Leave Newport Bridge on Sun
nay bv 3 P M, and ai rive at Sunbury in the- evening, and at
Savannah on Monday by 6 P M. °
f a. From Newport Bridge by Dariea and Brunfwiek. to St.
> Mary's, mee in two weeks.
Receive the Mail at Newport Bridge eVfcry other Sunday
ntfon, and arrive at St. Mary's the next Wedr.efdav b»tP M.
Returning. Leave St. Mary's ihe next day-* Thursday by 8 A
M, and arrive at Fftvvport Bridge the wext.Sunday by 10 \ M#
" ... Note 1 If either of the routes are altered by law, during the con- '
tmuance of the Contracts, the Contractor is toolfervc fuc/i alterations
" in carrying the mail, and hi i pay is to be encreafed or dimhijhed, i«
• proportion to the distance encreafed or diminified by fucfr aiteialio 7. '
' I nJi" LC *" ftff-Pty'-'' tc vperatitm, cn the Jir/l day of
r October next, anito continue for four years until the 30 th Septem
far, 1800, inclufirz-e.
Note 3. ThePoft Maflcr General may alter the times oj arrival
and departure at afly tine during the continuance of the Contrails, he
prmoujly fiipulating an adequate compensation for any extra exbenfc
. that may be occa fumed thereby. '
1 Note 4. Fifteen minute< [hall beal omei fir opening andiJofinr ■
the mail at all offices where no particular time is fpecifed.
r Note For every hour's delay funavoidable accidents excepted)
in arriving after the times pre/cubed in any lOntraO, the contractor
' /ball forfeit cne dollar And if the delay continue unlit t'-e depart
• lire oj any depending mail, whereby the maih de,/lined for fuck de
pending mil frail lofeatrip, the centraSor frail forfeit ten deliort
—to be deduced from hij pay,
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Post-Master General
General Post Office,
Philadelphia, June 18, 1796. nw6w
Urbanna Mill Seats ,
QITUATE in Cecil county, Maryland, on the banks*
U the river Sufquehanna, about one mile above tide wa
r;rr, mn 7 d r g th i wa,cr ° f that
h M M t trad£ of which so near
InrfMl fCf ? lt , C0 "' Venientto f P«k the boats;
and, Mills may be so fituatedas to receive them along their
walls, and by water lifts take in their cargoes.
r t | ( !' "a f ° w f r fuffi cient for many and any kind of
U Vafer \Vark« and so much may be juflly said in .
onamendanon of tins Scite as would h, incon to
in fort nowfpopvr
«J!? re^oma^ eC , re , t0 be cen «rned, willprobably
find th cmfelves well pleased on viewing the situation.
,1 Z7lP T u ° f 7 earS mi >' be >"> appli
• t0 thc fubferiber, living on the premises.
4 ~ CLEMENT HOLLYDAT.
iaw3m
PRINTED BY. JOHN FENNO,
—No. x ig—
CHESNUT-9TREET.
[Priec Bight Dollars per Ann»n»,J
i ■ i
. - • ■* •./'