iSajtttC ./<& ©tlttCt) i>tatCo, i?Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
TUESDAT EVENING, NOVEMBER 15, [Volume J.
Numbes 1306. J • - — — — 11 -
" ... . . „ I -rue TnK'ATHAN HARVEY & Co. i T. A W D T W Ci.
For Sale,
At Public Aaftion,'on Saturday, November 19th inft. at
at the Merchants Coffee House, 6 o'clock in the Cven
<Jj b fly
Virginia built, of the bell material*.
„,,c (heathed on the flocks to light wa
ter mark, ij nott wo years old, burthen eighteen hundred
barrel., or thereabouts is well found in every refpert, and
fai . tuiuckibl* fall—is ready to recsive a crrgo immeili
at<-'r. Inventory to. be seen at Footiaan &Co Aui.: on
rofim, orf hoard at South Street wharf, or at No, s,South
i'v.i rrh Street, by applying to the fubfeiiber,
George Blight.
" mis of payment —approved indorled notes at 1, 4,
and 6 months. .
Nov. .4. . § lw "
For Freight or Charter
To Europe or the W.lndits,
The new Brig FAIR AMERICAN,
Richard Calley, Mailer ; burthen I4J tons; has
good accommodations, and is now ready to revive a
cargo-apply to the Captain on board, firft w;iai 1
above the Still-House, S»uthwark, or to
Isaac Harvey, jun.
Who has now for sale, at his flore, No. j, South
Water-street,
A quantity of Cayenne and Trinidad Cotton
Spanish Soal Leather
And a parcel of Carolina Rice, in whole and half
tierees. nth mo. nth. . diw
+ 11 ' ' * ' ' '' ' ' '
For Madeira,
The Jhip Concord,
Caj>t. John Thomson. For freight
passage apply on board, or to
Peter Blight;
Who has for sale, a quantity of
Brandy, in pipes
Whiting and Copperas, in hogsheads
Old Hock, in cases
Dutch Cream-Cheese, in boxes
Window Giafs
Empty Gin-Cases
Glass Ware, in boxes
Painters' Colours, ground in oil
Sweet Oil, in cases of a dozen bettles each
Hazlenuts, in facki.
November n. d im
jr-> Wanted to Charter,
\ A fact-failing Vessel,
« K That will carry sor 600 barrels ; to
4 ~ •SS&E3SJ load immediately for the Weft-Indies.
Apply to
Peter Blight.
November ro. dx
For sale, freight or charter,
/ THE BRIG
... Lilly, '
fSnrucN Smith, Mailer.
AN entire new-vpffel, ninety-three tons burthen, com
pletuly found, Atjdjuay be lent to fca without any
e'penle. For ternis,' Apply 011 board, at Clifford's wharf,
o, to ' JOSEPH ANTHONY & CO.
NOT 0 6§
For Sale.
' The Ship CHARLOTTE,
flout vcflel, about 150 tons bur
then, well found and may be sent to
at a small expence.
Apply to
fofeph Anthony and Co.
Nov. iB. dx-
FOR SALE,
7HE SHIP M art,
sam UF. l PARKER, J^ASTEii,
hundred tons burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MARY is not fold in a few days, (he will take
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
Oilnber 31. <1
Just arrived, and will this day be lan
ded from on board the brig FAVORITE at Cheinut
street wharf.
25 Tons bejl Ruff a Clean HEMP,
§6 Tons old Sable flat IRON,
200 Coils best RufTia CORDAGE. aff?.rted flies,
400 Pieees brown RuiTw SHEETINGS,
jro Bolts Ruflia DUCK,
340 Pieces Ra-vcns do
so Half-down feather beds, and '
A few pieccjafforted PER.
FOR SALE BY
Joseph Anthony and Co.
The above mentioned BRIG
'* 'eW a ta *' freight on
moderate terms for Boston Or Salem, for
or passage, apply on board or as above
Oflbbtr gt. d
For London,
The Jhip William Penn,
Will fail with aU
* &c *-*=* Si fe® s CoHvenient speed. Fo« freight or passag e
apply to the Captain on bourd, or to
Jefle and Robert Wain.
November 10, <i
• For Liverpool, \
The Ship DO Ml NICK TERRY, .
Jacob Dehart, Master.
MM Has a part of her cargo engaged.— I
Forfrcightor passage apply to the mas
' ter on board, at the whar- of the sub
scribers, or,
Jeffe y Robert Wain.
Nov. 7. d
For Lisbon,
The Danish barque Ben etentur a,
Samuel Stub, Master,
A good veflel of about two hundred J
tnn.s burthen. For freight or paflage
apply to J
ftjft & Robert Wafn. 1
Nov. 7»
T0 fail the i jth infant,
' , ' ,c ncw *p^'' a<^a 'p' i ' a »
Tkfodore Slifs, master, now on her.second voyage;
has elegant accommodations for paflengeri fails rtt
m ark ably fact.—For freight or ptffage apply to the
master, or to
\ Thomas and John Clifford.
] Nov. 11.
- FOR LONDON,
1 The oapj'.al (TiijS CERES,
To fail iocva i-'-For freight- or passage
apply to DAVY, ROBERTS & Co. or
John Vaughan,
Scptember !o. l ront-ftrcet.
For Charter,
<T3jt The Ship JOHN BUL KEL T,
AVKts StocKLEY, Master.
s'l *! exce " fnt live-oak and cedar built
Wtijßj(hip, ef about 3000 barrels burthen.—Ap
yeffc y Robert Wain.
Nov. ' d._
jr**- For BRISTOL,
THE SHIP
PHILADELPHIA,
Theodore Bliss, master.
A new (hip, on her second voyage, with the best
accommodations for passengers, and is intended to fail
with all expedition. For freight or jkaffage apply to
the Master on board, or to
Thomas iy John Clifford:
Who have just imported in fitd vefiel, aiWl have for.
sale, Eefides their general assortment
<-f IRONMONGERY,
A quantity of fine drawn and common ftiarp ami
fiat point NAILS ; double & single rall'd Sheet Iron j
Iron Pots, Kettles, and Iron YVeights, of all lizc3 ;
London and Lriftol Pewter in calks, assorted ; boxes
of Tin Plates; cases of Men's, Women's and Boys'
Hats; crates of earthen and flint Glaf's Ware ; crafts
of Phials; boxes of WiiidoW-GlV.fs ; boxes of long
and short Pipes; Copper in Sheets ; Oval Quart Bot
tles in hampers; alfs, a few catks of bottled Beer,
and two bales, of Superfine Broadcloths and Cafli
merel. O<ftoheri7. mScthiW
For Sale, or Charter,
Jp3L The Ship DIANA,
Samuel Pilf, Master,
Burthen 205 47-95 tons regifttr, built in
Philadelphia ill the year 1791, of live oak.
and red cedar, and was (heathed 13 months ago,-(he
has.just had a con'ipleat out-fit, and may he sent to sea
at a very trifling expence.
For terms apply to
Fiji lip Nicklin ly Co.
" IVho hive for sale en hoard J'uid nijfd*
27 rafts of line yellow paint.
filing •
1 btox ink (lands and note prefles.
14 biles of fail canvass.
N And on hand,
Imperial
Hyson, and, V TEAS.
Souchong j
40,000 pieces Nanl.eens of the firft rjuallty.
19 tubs QuickfiJver.
a chests Bandanm handkerchiefs.
A few chsfts ManchefWr goods well aflortcd in Cor
duroys, thicksets, Ginglian\s, Muilinets, Dimities, &C.
3 boxes black sewing f.ik'.
I So crates Queens ware well affort«d.
10 tons (heet lead.
Nails alTorted, flat and laatp points.
\ onA ° n P »r iUi > 1 Madeira Wine in pipe.
NTwXk Market, 5, b^*
40 pipes and 10 hogsheads Teneriffe wine.
8 tierces Snake Root.
>30 logs Mahogany.
Nov 7. tth&ftf.
Just Landing,
At South Jlrcet luhurf, from oh board tie jhip Sedg
ley, Captain Hodge, from St. Pcterjiurg,
The following Goods :.
RulTta Sail Dack, fir,4 quality.
Do. Sheeting 4°-
Do. Diaper.
, Do. Huck.back. 'V.
Do, Crash. x
Do, Mould Candle*, 4, > and 6, to the lb.tjf the
Euglilh fizt .
Do. White Candle TallotV.
Do- White Sosp in fmali bores.
Do. Cordage of' fine yarn.
Ravens Duck.
lCnglafs, ill andjend fort."
Horse Hair uncurled.
Russia Bar Iron.
Do. Hoop Iron.
Do. Nail Rods. f
XC Tons Oakum and Junk. .
St. Petersburg Cltin Hemp: * -♦■
For Sale Vy
Philips, Cfamond, & 60.
OAober 12. § ,
Washington Lottery.
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be purchased or'
cxchangnd for prizes, atAhe Office, No. 147, Chcfnut
fireet, where a corre6l Numerical Book is kept for public
infpe&ion. Alio Canal Lottery Tickets for sale or ex- :
changed for prizes diawn ih the Walhington Lottery, of
which the 36th and 37th days returns are received.
$3" Th» Bufincfs ot a Broker carried on as usual.
Nxvembcr 10. ttstf
GRAND PATENT AND OTHER
Piano Fortes.
JUST arrived ; uncommon attention has been given 1
to the finilhing of these inflruments, which are in 1
stile entirely new, and superbly elegant. Added t* :
which> purchasers will have an opportunity of felec- 1
ling from a greater number than was ever «fiered for '
sale, by any person in this city—and being a eoitfign- •
men:, and the objeil of the conligner 1 fpeeriy return 1
of the proceeds, they will be fold on liberal terms, at 1
W. PO'i in PELL's flore, No. 70 Chefnut Srect.
Nuvember 9. m w , t
THE Partaerfti'p qf JONATHAN HARVEY & Co.
being this day Diifolvcd fcy mutual consent, those indebt
ed to said firm aic requeued to make speedy payment to
Jonathan Harvey, who is authorized to receive the fame,
asd those wlio have any demands will please to bring in
' their accownts to him for feuleinent
The Bujinefs will be Continued
By Jonathan Harvey.
AT HIS STORE NO. 106, S. FRONT-STREET ;
s Where he has for Sale,
A general aflortment of Dry Goods.
November 14, 1796. jm
JOHN MARKLAND,
Printer, Boohfelle'r, and Staticner,
No. 91, Sflutli Front Street,
Has received by the lail arrivals Irom London, an aflosi
ment of Stationary, which he will fell on the molt
reasonable terras, confiding of—
A great variety of copperplate printing pa? e r, from
33 by inches to the fma|leil fizs,; fnptrfiae, impe
rial, super-royal, royal, medium, demy, folio, and
quarto poll, foolfcap and post writing paper ; marble
andb'oiting paper, large and fiTiall message card 3, land
and pounce boxes, fliining sand, ink and ink-powder,
pencils, quills, crown, half crown, and common fire
Irifli wafers, coloured and red; India rubber, pen-knives
lead and pt-wter inl4.-fter.ds, do. chests, cork loles, copy
books, llatei and pencils, Entick's dictionary, Watts'
psalms, he.
Also, foroe elegant prists, an sfiortment of blank
bonks, American manufa&»red writing paper, do,play
ing cards of a superior quality; and a collection of
BOOKS, London and American editions.
Nov. 11. j6(.
FOR SALE,
A few hofjrtieads of choice Ne.v-England RUM,
A mimber of parrel? of BEEF, and PORK,
An J a few of LARD, of a superior quality.
Enquire at No. 71, north Water-street.
Novrm'oer 8, 1796 dtf
0 L D
London Particular Madeira Wine,
In pipes, bog(head6 and quarter-casks,
Landing this day at Chyfnut-tlrcet Wharf, and
for sale by
Jo/iph Anthony &c Co.
Nov. I. d
Best Boston & ,N6va-Scotia Mackarel,
Excellent Halifax Salmon jo bbls.
47 bbls. primr Coffee,
Best Bofton^Secf,'
Codtilh in hdt.
Spermaceti Candles,
Spermaceti, and 1 r\ 1 r
Northern j" U 1 lj<
Mould aivd dipt, tallow candles, ps a fuprriui
qualiiy.
A 'cw boxe 1 * excellent brown soap,
6 nf Cork?.
'—- ■■.-ti-ii.j 1-n -
A fit iv sacks of Feathers.
A few titles India Mudins.
FOR S/ILE BY
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
October Jl. ' " d
The Cargo of the Polacre Independent,
CAPTAIN from Alicant and Xif
bon, landing at the fubferibert wharf—
a 8 Pipes of Brandy,
18 Bales of Splhifc wool
X do. of Arrnifccd
7000 Bushels of bett iLlfcan Silt
80 Boxej of Lenions
For faJe by WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
ALSO,
Seventy Ilogtheadsof prime JAMAICA SUGARS,
received by the (hip Dominick Terry, Capl; Be Hart,
from Kingston.
Sept. t;. d
•
For Sale.
7 cafus coarse hats
Copper boitopis and (heets
Shot, all fizej, patent and common
Sheet and bari lead
Englifti (hoes and bodts in cases
Tin plates
Gold watches
Taunton ale in calks.
Apply to
Simon Walker *
IS4, So. Fourth Street.
Nov. «■ di 4 t.
Iriili Linens, &<r.
Imported per the Jhips G/a/gmu, from Di/lfta, Liber
ty, from Cork-, and btig Mentor, from BeifaJ},
4-4 and 7-8 Wide IRISH LINENS,
In ifchole and half boxes,
Ass rt'ed from lid. to 4s. sterling—Also 5- fcwide
Sheeting and low priced yarn 'and worsted Hose.
i On Hand,
7-R WWU Lawns,
CflKers :,nil Teb!e-C!oths
A.few baxesTickens and Checks
: A frw bales Flannels
. Ccirk and Bcifail Sail Cloth, Nps. I and 6.
S5 Box«s ( 6 by !,
ro.JDitto > Window Glass, i 7 by 9,
5 IJitto j (. 8 by 10.
the above mentioned Goods are all entitled to the
drawback, and will be disposed of by the package «-n
reasonable terms.
JameS,, Clibborn & Engliflb,
No. 6, N. Front-street.
xoth mo. 19th. j t f
Twenty Gkiineas Reward.
RAN AW AY from the lubferiber t>u the 23d October
a Dark MfcT.ATTO BOY, named MOSES ; n years
old; about 5 feet 8 inches high ; had on a mixed green
coat, with a green velvet cape and oval yellow buttons;
a driped veil; a pair of dark, spotted pantaloons, and
whole boots much worn. It is grobable he may change
his name and dress. He Has been accustomed te driving
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will be
paid for securing hixn so that tiie libfcriker may get him
again, and if brought home al) reasonable charges paid by
Rabins Cbambcrlaitte.
Eafton, Maryland, Nor- JO, 14 Slmjawtf
LANDING,
| Out of tfijferent vejfeh from England, and for sale
by the fuljcribers cn rcafonalle terms,
Superfine and common cloths, find caffimers
Ribbed and striped do. do. , A '
Blankets, mottle(T green and CMc rugs.
Superfine blue, Claret, and common coatings,
Kersey*, Bear-skins, plains and Half'-hicki,
Swanikins, Serges and Flannels,
British Ingrain Carpeting,
HatsalTotted in cases of 11 doz. each.
Chocolate chintzes, printed Callicoes and Handkerchiefs.
Scarltt C*riii<isls, and Scarlet Sji il,
Yarn, Worflcd, and Cotton hotiery,
Beavers, Tbickfetts, Velvets, Corduroys, See. &e.
BufFand drab Genoa Cerds of a superior quSlity.
fed. Bd. loft ud. iod. nails, and frying pans,
An alTrtrtmcnt of Ironmongery, Cutlery and a variety
of India cotton, and si 11c gouds.
Thomas iff fofbua Fijher. .
No. "s, Dock-lUrect.
Also by the Glasgow from Dublin,
1-8 and 4-4 Irifti Linens affortedin boxes of 30 pieces,
do. Brown, Glazed Linnen.
OA. if. dtf.
Sales of India Goods.
The Cargo ef thefhip Ganges, capt. Tingty, from Cal
cutta and Bengal,
consisting or
A Large and genera! alTortment of Bengal a/id Madras
COTTON and SILK GOODS.
AMONG WHICH ARE
A variety fine worked and plain Muslins,
Doreas, ts'c, Also,
A Quantity of Excellent St/gar,
la boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER,
For Sale by
Willings <sf Francis,
No. 21 Penn Street.
June I ' §
—. ■ 1. — .1 <in
Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLER, jun. & CO.
Have received per the William Pcnn, in addition to
their own aflbrment,
A consignment of twenty trunks of Calicoes, ele
gant London patterns j also a few cases of handsome
Buttons—Which will be fold at a Ihort credit, on very
reasonable by the package only.
oa. 14. dtf
A CAPITAL ASSORTMENT OF
DRY GOODS.
John Miller, jun. & Co.
Exclusive. of their own Importation now opening,
Have received by the William Penn, Caroline and Dllll
CONSIGNMENTS,
Which comprize a capital afljprtment te open a
Dry Goods Store.
—Amongst them are—
Common, faper and fuperfine Cloths,
Plain, twill'd and ftrip'd Coatings,
"TOTTCT"UTi'T nrrnrnT, — -- —
Point, rose and duffil Blankets,
PJain and puotea Caflimcres,
Swanfdowns,
Printed Calicoes,
Scotch Threads,
Hosiery.
They will he fold either in whole, or inpart, by the
package, on terjhs which render them an objeA worthy of
attention t# fttirehafeis. dtf OA. 41.
-For Sale,
AThree-ftory BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut
street, between Front and Second flreeu, in which
Meflrs. James Calbrakh & Co. have For many years (and
now do) carried on btifmefs.
Poflcffion will }>e given in one month, or foorer.
For terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or
HECTOR CALBRAITH.
'-pril si. §
For Sale,
By Jehu HoUingfworth, & Co.
aj hhds. Weft-India Rum, 3daad 4th proof,
5 Barrels bed Indigo, and,
A few thousand bushels of Turk's Island fait.
oa. 17. . J.
For Sale,
By J. WARDER, PARKER Ess Co.
An Invoice of Cordage,
Confiding of different sizes, from 12 inch cabfes down
to rope of 2 inches, of different lengths: imported in
the ship Swift, from Hull, and entitled to drawback.
Sept. 27. dtf
TO BE SOLD, ~
A LOT of GROUND, 164 feet 7 inches frpnt on South
Water-street, and bounding on the Delaware abokf'tfie
fame width, with a wharf thereon in good repair. On the
north fide adjoining Tun alley, is a large and well built
dwelling hoafe, and counting house, communicating with
each other, 47 feet wide, a spacious kitchen, and other
■well planned aceoimnodatians, and below these a Rack of
stores, 61 feet in front, by 93 feet in length, built a few
years ago ; on the remainder of the lot on Water-street,
there are two ancient brick dwellings, a Cooper's shop, &
a frame ft ere, now occupied by Mr. Alexander Tod, and
bounds adjoining the ftoresol the heirs of the late Joseph
Wharton. It will be better described by drafts and plans
of the ground, and buildings, to be ffen at JOHN WIL
COCKS's compting house, on the preraifes, and of whom
particulars of lale may be obtained.
The whole will be fold together, or detached as. may
best ftiit the purehafer. Nov. 5 §
The Elephant
IS RETURNED FROM BALTIMORE.
THE public are refprdh'ully informed, that
this animal is to be seen every day, from 8
o'clock in the morning till fun down, in Market
ftreet, No. 1 ©6, south fide, between Third and
Fourth-ftreeM.
Admittance a quartet of a dollar, that every ci
tizen may fee him.
03" At the request of many persons it will be
exhibited on evenings from five to eight e'elock,
at half a dollar each.—The room will be well
lighted.
Novsmbir 7; dJ
PETER PIffDAR'S
00l EXHORTATION TO THE POPE.
THE French are devils—devils—down right devils;
In heavenly wheat accurst deftruilive weevils!
iafh Abominations! atheists to a man"!
Rogues that convert the fined flour to bran;
In Vice's drunken eup forev»r guezling ;
, z jj' Just like the hogs in arod uncleanly nuzzling.
I know the rascals a lin is Utto,
To rels the holy Latfy of Loretto;
Attack her temple with (heir.guns, so warrifc,
And thrust the genrlewoman on the parilh ;
>• A Lady all so graceful, gay, and rich,
With gems and wonders lodg'd in every stitch.
, Heir of St. Peter, Jcindle then thine Ire,
And bid France feel thy apostolic fire ;
Think of the quantity of sacred wood
Thy treasuries can launch into'the flood ;
What (hips the holy nwntrer can create
v At leaff a dozen of the largest rate!
And, 10, enough of sweet Saint Martha's hair.
To rig this dozen mighty (hips of wir.
Our Saviour's pap-spoon, that,a world adores,
Would make x hiincired thousand pair of oars.
Gather theftones that knock'd fiownpoor St. Stephen,
"And fling at Frenchmen in the name of heav'n; ,
Bring forth the thousands of Saint Catherine's Bails, ,
That ev'ry convent, church and chapel hails—
atf For fterms, -uncork the bottled sighs of martyrs,
•^ v And blow the rogue's to earth's remotell quarters. '
Such relics, of good mother church the pride,
ilfo ow wo "ld they currycomb a Frenchman's hide! i
ind Son-os the church, again I fay, arise, ;
r i And flafli new marvels in their sinner eyes-; 1
With teeth and jawbones on thy holy back,
Thumbs, fingers, "knuckle-bones to fill a sack;
— With joint of rump, ind loins, and heels, and toes, j
Begin thy march, and meet thy atheist foes.
Struck with a panic (hall the villains leap, 1
And fly thy presence like a flock of sheep. I
Thus ftial! the rebels to religion yield, 1
1 And thou, with holy triumph, keep the field. t
— c
rl > tor the Gazette of the -United States. *
fNo. 111. coßcluded.j v
TaJke Eltfltrs of the PrtJtJenl gf tit United State:. ''
m "If the life of Rberty and the tnly remedy agamjl „
" f'V iol'lrf h" in the fuceejfttn of power: and per- n
"font," (fayi Mr. Adams, thus repeating Ned
hams words) " the United St*te« of America have d
— " taken the most effectual meifurei to secure that r
or " life and that remedy, in eftablilhing annual elec- a
cd " Hons of their governors, senators, and reprefen- b
ion " tativea. This he continues will probably be al b
let- « l owe d to be a: petfeß an eftablifliment of a fuc- a
"i " cefTwn of powers ind perfoui, ax human/aw ean a
b t , " mate ; but in what manner annual elefti'ons of f,
r>e. " governors and senators will operate remains to p
- be ascertained. It (hould always be remember- ti
hn «' ed that this is not thefirft experiment that was c
la- " ever made in the world 0f,4 to great office: i,
lfe " 'ff"" = how J he y •'"e hitherto operated, in si
" 'very great nation, and what has been their end, c
" is very #;// known." " Mankind," fays Mr. j
Adams have univerfaJJy discovered that chance was I 1,
L preferable to a corrupt choice, and have trujedl ft
— Providence rather than the mfcivet. Fir ft magif- 1
on " 1 rates and senators had better be made hereditary at Isa
ir- « once, than that the people (hould be umverfally |1,
" ddtVtfhtd amd firihJ, n ■ < 'to tc
" arm: regularly every 'year. Thank heaven { Ame hi
" ticans understand calling conventions; and if the] E
— " lime (hould it i: veryp,Jible it may, when la
" hereditary descent mall become a less evil than an- tt
" nual fraud and violence, such a convention may pi
" still prevent the firll magistrate from becoming ar
" absolute, a: well a: hereditarylt is rery tnre, th
electors, that this is not the firft experiment ever | ft
made in the world of ekaioni to great offices of th
state, but it is likewise true that ours are the firft pi
c ever were made in genuine republican govern- dt
t ment * c< l ual birth-rifbt: and of equal reprefenta- ur
tion. It u also true, that thefetretion if w< may so m
t, speak, of eleSor: of the executive, from the mass of 10l
the nation, by the operation of Ugijlative orpopular be
choice, and the meeting of «//the prefiJential elec- w ,
tors on the fame day in sixteen ftveral places and qt
p beards, which cannot by reason of this f.paraHon an
be controuled by a mob er an arlny, or inflame one is
another, have never before been tried. The exclu th
ding from the presidency, men, who are too young I
to have manifefted their charaflers, the obligation of
on the electors to feleft one ptrfon out of two en
from another grand divifi«n »f the Empire, the ex'- ftj
cellent provisions for vacancie: and vitiated elediont f rt
through the Vice-President, the Prefidcnt of the 2 1
Senate, and the Speaker of the Representatives, he
•1 r lnt « e l, the duty, and the power of each
• of ti* fate governments to protest their pr,
r boards of electors from v lo lence and interruption, nu
r are new guards and sureties. Similar observation, wl
e may be made '"regard to our peculiar mode of elec ifh
J tmg senators The rock, on which other nations had po
[ S 1 " W " e . f ""y !" Vlew the federal convention, of
~ 11 was o body wife, learned, experienced, inventive
, patriotic, repuohcan, luguft no lef, i„ the qualities lor
d Of its component members, than in it. proper obied*, ra ,l
e ffue He.ce thcCt«rnfold g.J, 0 f Br
■ " d ,h tu "' •' •" h °
■ Let u m V, UI e / uf P ea,:d of difrefpea in obferv- Tc
• ! n S' th ? l Mr - Adams could do no good, by hold me
• »g «P «7«S, whet, the Maflachulctts infurS.
_ tion was ju/l quelled, any eligibility in "chance" du<
governors, as he unwarily, though corte(9ly calls S> a
mankind trifling Providence roller than them- cloa
set appear, to be a kind of religious sophism the
—a fuggelt'on, which might rather have been ex ill,
pefled from a person of , fuperfti ;ioU9 imbcc ;,. .
than one of a firm and illuminated piety. Jt f oftl
too l Cry h K rRU T nt ' hoWever ' bcca "ft it prove, exel
too much. For, if we are bound bv rclimV -~ J . r
totruft Providence rather than ourfclves f^viv; 1 r
the divine rights of civil rulers) in reeard to P /
dent, and Senator,, wc must bcwareTlL! f"'
public concern: out of the hand, of Prolidencc LZ fori
letling reprefentativei.—But it is vrrv f,- • I 1 I
from true, that mankind have univejfalh be
r.b>a, ,b ;f , ..,w. rulc „i
their own difcoveru: and preference 1 of • P '
eligibly of the prcunt royal ;/X r A r .f
dams io substance alleges. 1. it 80l r ,.i * It^ 811
that tkofc d Caoil . ttf e ropul ;;
—i ' lenct, esrruption an 3 fraud" not animal out daily
have been more frequently the means, by whi oil
mofl of the present hereditary families «f Europe
have acquired all or much of their power. When
vila; the Fruffian, Austrian and Ruffian bayonets gave
an hereditary sovereignty to the unhappy Poles, a
quantum of " corruptior, fraud and violence" wa» a
expended, which far exceeded the aggregate irre
gularities of all our popular elefitions, during the
whole of our exigence, as independent Rates. Nay,
to give an and solemn tiuth its due
weight, there mult be a greater degree of " cor
rnption, fraud and violence" to maintain, even un
der that mofl iiupendous fabrics the British consti
tution, a government by abo«t ten thousand heredi
tary and eltSing individuals, over above two millions
of adult free men, than has occurred in America
from its earliest settlement.
A FEDERALIST.
For the Gaxitti or the United Statu.
PHOCION—No. XXII. \
len, WE (hall now examine the tendency of the rem.
mercialmeafuris, which Mr. Jefferfon recommended ■>
l ''*> toeongrefsin his report. —
In the 17th page he fays, "Where a nation :
imposes high duties or our productions, and pro- 1
hibits them altogether, it may be proper to do the '
fame by theirs, firft burthening or excluding those '
productions which they bring here in competition
with own of the fame kind ; f-leCtmg next
such manufactures as we take fiom them in great if! '
quantity, and which at the fame time we could the 1
' soonest furnith to ourselves, or obtain from other '
countries, imposing on them duties lighter at firft, 1
but heavier and heavier afterwards, a* other chan- 1
nels of supply open." He had pievioufly dated, c
that Great-Britain did impose high duties on some F
of our productions, and prohibited others altoge- 1
ther: he afterwards stated, that Great-Britain was 1
unwilling to enter into any friendly arrangements ?
! with us. The propositions introduced by Mr. Ma- ''
difen, of which citizen Fauchet fays Mr. Jefferfon ?
was thereal author, and which were in faCt a com- "
,r [fi mentary on the report, were direCtly aimed ,at the w
manufactures of Great-Britain. 3
ed- Had it been true, that Great-Britain had bur-
•*e dened our productions in the maaner stated in the J e
i'at reprrt, we should have been warranted by juflice,
ec» and the principles of [elf protection, in reciprocating n
en- burdens on their manufactures, and we should have 0
al been warranted by policy also, could we have found Ci
Jc " a fubflitute for their manufactures. But inafmucli d
'■an jas the commercial system of Great-Britain, so far f
of j from exhibiting those hidious feature/ which the re- ' r
to port had pourtrayed, was found, on examination, tc
er- to be at lead as friendly to us as that of any other ' e
?as country, the meaftire was condemned by juflice; and
ces inafmueh as we could, at that time, find no pofiible
i» fubflitute for the British manufactures, it was also
>d, condemned by policy. P«
ir- j There could be only three sources of supply ,l
'as to this countiy of the manufactures annually con- Bl
™ fumed—the United States,Great-Britain & Franee. fa
if-1 1 he- United States manufacture but little. Manu- I"
at faCtures cannot thrive to any extent ia a Country 8r
lly I like this. Mr. Jefferfon, in deprecating their exif- to
'0 I tence among us, gives himfeff fufficient reasons, in
ie- J his Notes 011 Virginia, why they cannot ptofper.
he Experience has fanftiooed his doCtrrae. The cloth in
en manufacture in Connecticut, the cotton manufac-' 0,1
11- J ture at Paterfon, notwithstanding the auspicious
ay patronage under which the latter has been fortcred, "
ig and varies other attempts, have all failed j aud * r
ie. this will universally be the cafe, until, as Mr. Jcf. *'
er ferfon observes, men get piled up in large cities
oH throughout America, But, while land is in such hi :
P len, y> an <| Workmen so scarce, and of course so tu
n- dear, in vain shall government, unwisely, heap duty J c
a- \ upon duty, and burden upon burden, on foreign
so manufactures, we (hall (till, for years to come, be co
»f obliged to resort to them. Of what avail have
f been all the protecting duties on cottons, on hard- UD
c- ware &c. &c. ? Do ive find them imported ia lcf« 10
id quantities? Let every reader look at his own dress, ha
m 8t ,hc furniture and implements with which, he ! ,c
ie is urrounded, and then pionousce what portion of ' nt
I tncra 11 derived from domed ic resources. to
e J eflrerfon ftatC! 3 in the leport, that even do
m of the rough material of bar-iron, we do not make W
enough for our own confutation. He had also wil
Rated, that while the manufactures we imported ! P rc
u from From and her dominion, amounted to only I
2,068,348 dollar., those from Great-Britain and I tra
l hcr XT dom ! n '° n » amounted to 15,285,428 dollars. j cce
Notwithstanding this iramenfe disproportion, he oth
e proposes, that we shall burden or exclude those ma- °P<
1, nufaCtures which <ue tait in freatej quantity, ac«l ™
" 7K ' C " n fame time wt could ,he fooneit furn- m "
d °; r 5 e '7' °. r ohtain J rom <" b " countries, im- g rc
! z
t Hcr f J " P ,o P° red k r the secretary, to burden 'a"
1 m-ll" f roanufaa to the amount of fifteen I cem
millions of dollars, which we imported from Great the
r from o ,' ,A° ,0 fu PP'r. w a supply
oiher country. He knew very well that °'h
weconid ex pea no mate, ial substitute from domes- ' tur <
: r"l b "f r ' nCL P ,e '< 'a 'elation to do
meltic manufifture, were even bofil, to such a sub- Sp l '
'I H •• ftron * , y d<: pr«ated the intro. J cff
J Sutr m C , rna,lufaftur « i»to the United in v
1 his evident then, that, under the hypocritical *> is l
J oak of friendfhip for domestic manufaCtmcs with Cde:
•he artful design of enlisting on hi. fide a!! the art . J
• t
j secretary s plan, having evidently no- resource at mth
home, where were the importing merchants JLv 1 Wh<
I for supply for their customers' Tn IT .1 whit
No. in i. iß lx r ;,lL.T» :
the the r„ m „, u, Th?'" T'
port was made in December 'o*
eft of difcuffipn during tie fill ' ' he fuW '
j 'January and ° f «tJ
i.so," 'j., J
daily t»t«, tiny invariably reMcd to Francs • arJ 1
rhioli they wcic informed that France was not' in *
irepe dition to topply even herfelf, they contradiLVtfc"*
Vhen information, ascribing It altogether to enmir, \
gave wards that nation, asserting, that France wasVn'
es, a competent to supply us as well „ herfjlf We M
wa.J not depe.d altogether on the information of ,1
■irtc- opponent* of the report, but resort to a f OUr J ,
the information, which Mr. Jefterfon himfelf w ;i]
Nay, introvert, becaufehe has becn'alway, m the ht £
due or refpe&ing it—l refer to a report made to ,K
cor- national convention of France, by Robert IVy
unn- the 20th September, "1794, about the very'Tj'e
>nfti- that Mr. Jeffcrfon's commercial proieft wouM k.
re ill- begun its operation, had it been carried.
I 'liens This was a report of the joint committees of Put,
erica he and General Safety and of legislation, or, ,i e t'
of France, and undoubtedly conuiaed the mnitac
r. curate information ; Unfortunately for Mr I e f f
for, and his friends, It brought compleat confirm*
ation of every thing which had been asserted by the
opponent, of the report, on the ruinous condition of
the trench manufaaures. Let us heir the report-.
com. " Ibe commerce of France exhibits only ruins and
,ded i commerce too has been perfected bv
Ivobefpierre; a iefiroymggenius hovered over France
tion and . committed devastations every where ; f.reiVn
pro . nations fend you their productions, andajk for yours
,he ' a £ turn > lut y> u consume every thing yourfelvet ■
liofe Wlil y° u °"er them metals in exchange ? What minis
tion iave T ou f u Jfi"ent for the purpofc? It isinduflrya.
icxt one that can enable a nation to maintain the bal
rtiej lance of trade with other nations ; preserve France"
the om misfortune of becoming tributary to 0
tier lher na, 'o"* •>)' paying for their produflions in mo!
irft, "Y : Kcjlort to manufußurert all thef commodities
lan- that «re dow under feats, put in circulation all the
ted> commodities that have been dispatched to different
jme P' RC |' S > but stopped an J detained in confrquence of
ige- the decree, which orders the coufiscation of every
was thl "g sent , t0 Peaces itra state of rebellion. Tura
rots y° ur at !'°V | on 10 Lyons, put a afeip to the demo.
Via- lltlon of buildings, make the citizens return to their <
s on •Mnufacrorias, and Lyons will yei rife from her ru.
>m- Marfeillts, whose commerce was so flourifhine"
, he who prided herfelf on Applying all her own wants,
and contributing to thafe of the whose south of
lUr _ France, fuhfiits at present ob the aids granted by
thai government. With difficulty could a few meich.nt.
ice, colle&cd there to form two ageucics f®r the rem*
inR nant of the commerce of the Levant and the coast
ave . Barbary. At Cctte, merchants who wereTa
md their private fortunes in executing an or
jc"h dcr fios# the committee of public fafety, were tre;.t
far 38 ca "" tn revolutionists because they were export
re- ' n K commodities to make good the engagements en
nnj tered into by thc Republic. Such is the result of
hci- (o m»ny declamations* against commerce, lnftead
|n( j of restraining its errors, directing it to tha public
ble g" 0 "!. P u »'Hiing tfcc guilty, wijw "
What can commerce do amid such calamities and
persecutions To what a condition is the manufac.
»ly ture of Sedan reduced ? They there eeafed to mj."
>n- "ifafture fluffs of luxury, as soon as they were iu.
ge> formed of the necessities of the armies: the princi
iu- P a ' ms gaiiiC9 are now at the disposal of the nation,
ry and the commodities under seals. You will refior\
if- and comnmi,.
in tit: which must feed their manufactures ; Tou will
fr#( allow a certain number «f persons to be employed
,th in thc manufacture of (luffs of luxury for expoitaii
ic-' on - We mufl tell France, that one of the{;rea:e&
ius bbfldcl's to the reftoratiou of commerce and export!
-d, l!le exccflive coiifunaptwn of all the productions
U(J ot the foil in thc Interior. Great consumers arc in
■f. a conjlantJlatc of dependar.ee."
; es SiuU was the deplorable pifWe, given by the
ch authority, of the commerce and manu!ac
fo tures of France, about the very period, when Mr. '
t y Jcfferibn and his partizans were ttriving to iubjedt
?B this country altogether to a dcpendancc on French
commerce and French manufactures.
ve '1 he object of Mr. Jefferfon's report was then
( j_ undoubtedly to cncouragc and give a new spring
to the languithing manufactures of France. We,
fs, ave s een what was their fiuiatioii about the time
| |e he sent in his report ;no one, acquainted with the
0 f interest which he took in every thing which related
to France, and with his means of information can
!n doubt his being well apprized of that lituatiun.
ce Where can a jultificatioo then be found, confident
so a due regard of our national welfare, for hit
proposed fvilcm ?
ly squires little knowledge of the couife of
1( j trade, to be convinced that his scheme, had it fuc
| ceeded, would have been attended with one or
le i °?' lcr these coalequences—either it would have
s _ : operated as a bounty, paid by "the citizens op
j the united states for the revival of the ceoi
j. 1 fierce and manufaSures of francs, attended with
l- S rcat diflrefs to this country, or it would have ili
mulated thc Dutch, the hamburghers, See. to {end
j us circuitoujly Briufh manufactures, at a very en
n ' banced price, and under circumstances of great »#-
n | convenience to out fellow-citizens: we should, in
lt the former cafe, have been - made tributary to
y 11 ance; in the latter, tributary to the Dutch oc
t other carriers, and flill consumed Briujb maqvfai'
[•_ 'tures.
'• ' ' ie foregoing conliderations are fufficient to
1- <ifliibit the ruinous and difgraceful tendency of Mr.
1. Jefferfon's report. There aie various other lights,
j in which this interefiing subjeCt might be placed,
all of which would ft ill further rcflcft censure on
•J . s pr p pofed rneafures : ui particular we con
j l:der the report, in relation to our kinances, fyftcm
- public credit, exports, neutrality, and peace,
C ,
t An abftrafl of this report was pubiifhed in Mr.
1 Bache. piper of the 13th December, 1794. and the
f report idelf appeared in Webftei's Herald of 7th March,
f »795-
. We have from time to time been entertained, even
1 | ?! ' 15 country, with declamations againjl commerce*
_ Whenever the merchants have supported a measure,
■ : w nth did notfuit thc view* of a certatin party, they
■ iave talked of the ariftoiracy of commerce. Suth
. was ~ie cafe at the time of difaifljng the conftitutioß,
. tne report of Mr. Jefterfon, and the treaty. Ste the
. oppohtion prints of the time. Even Mr. Mn.lifon, in
<I l. c^ rl,rilerc '-'' speech, fpeikingot our merchants,fays,
mere arc the rtrougclt reaibns not to follow the
. mercajtile opinion in this country ; it raijjht be the
Cptnion of the very country of which we uo; to
take C6OB&IJ' See tp« c \ p . 6a . *and prove without difficulty that It w#uld h»ve o- >
perated injurioufi), in all those relationi. With
out this detail, we may fafely pronounce that,
whatever might have been the motives of Mr. Jef
ferfoa, the operation of this project would hive
been a phenomenon in politics and trade—a go
vernment attempting to aid commerce by throwing
it intt confujion—by obJlrußing the mod elTeatial
channels in which it flowed, under the pretence of
making it flow man freely, by damming up the bell
outlet for our surplus commodities and the belt inlet
f«r the supplies which we wanted, by disturbing a
beneficial course of things, in an experiment, pre
carious, if not dtfpetate, by arrelting the current j,
of a prosperous and progreflive navigation, to tranf
fer it to other countries, and by making all this R
mid <a>ori in the criminal attempt to build up the
mailt)failures and trade of another country at the
essence of the United States. The operation of his ®
j> irft was moreover calculated to diftttrb the ex
iltuif; coutfc of three fourths of our import trade,
it--. ffths of our export trade, and the means, on C
wirn.il depended two-thirds at least of our revenues N
—to campel us to forego the use of British manu- H
failures, at a moment when they were become,
from the situation of France, more necessary than
ever, when it was impoflible to find a substitute of
our own, without a violent diflortiun of the natural
course of our indultry. p (
Altho' the project of the Secretary of State was Pr
very ill-timed in these particulars, yet it will not be
denied that it was perfectly -well timed, in refpeft to
those circumstances, on which the Secretary depen
ded more for support than on the intrinsic merit and
solidity of the work, for it was in the sequel une- Ce
quivocally demonstrated that he had relied less 011 Ke
the reasons contained in the report than on the pal
fans which he expected to find in the legi/hiture.
We have alrealy noticed that the relolution of
the representatives calling for the report, was dated
in February 1791, and that the report was not de
livered in till December 1793. What produced ]
this delay ? why was it net sent in during the feffi- is e
on of '92 ? why was the house informed, near the I Co
close of the session of '93, that, tho' completed, it cou
* might be better to delay it to the next session ? It
is not difficult to find the solution of these extraor
dinary circumstances ; in the winter, of '93, there J J
existed no violent pajions against Great-Britain, tho'
precisely the fame commercial grievances of which J I
the report complainctl. In the winter of *93, the I
session was necelfarily limited to 3d March, and the
party were occupied in another business, which en
gaged all their passions and attention, and which, j
had it fuceeeded, might have in their eltimation,' I
paved theviy to the fucceftof Mr. J.fferfon'splan. mu ,
ihat leffion was principally taken up with the per- fooi
fecutmg mea/ures against the late Secretary of the ed '
Treasury, which terminated so honorably to him and an j
iodfgracefully to his enemies, besides, there did not bro,
then ex.lt passions against. England, Efficiently frie,
strong to afford a hope of success for the commer- Vic
cial fsheme, while the symptoms of approaching him
war between Lngland and France prorr.i'fed a more Geo
favorable profpeft for the ensuing session. The as lc
events which followed during the fummcr of 'at n ; tci
ihe passions which they kindled in this, country.
some unfriendly and impolitic proceedings of Great- the
Britain prepared the national legislature for the re- so e'
ception of Mr Jefferfon's report ; all the event,, peon
on which a calculation had been made, being now vami
matured and every engine adjufkd, every train laid, ,W
which could enfu.e success, Mr. j.fferfon threw this m.Vh
firebrand of discord into the midst of the repre- V ea,s
fentatives ol the Hates, convened to preserve their thev
union and instantly decamped to Momicclli I •
PHnrmv aga ' r
so be .
A Small and Convenient BREWERY* at I '
am It* £
ALL the Apparatus (or Brewing new and in good k' rn
repair: A number of Barrels and Hjlf Barrels will ,
also be rented. PolTeffion may he had at any time. th " >
°u L ett Cottringer in Philadelphia, S ocd
Rober ' Morris, jun. or Daniel Mun at Morris- heen
llv
■ -796. mth&?2w prize
A few Pipes of WINE, th!, »
Imported in the hrig FAME, from .Madeira, to be fold ft ° rt
by MO RD EC A I LEWIS,
° { on rea^ona hle terms,
IklSMtlN-ENS, well assorted j
BANDANNA HANDKERCHIEFS
WIDE NANKEENS
COS3AS AND BAFTAS ✓
RAVENS DOCK /,
DIAPER'S / 1
QHICK SILVER / 1 a
CHINA at
ROLL BRIMSTONE, &c. v Unite
obtr l - tawrmX * ood
A t .. , i'hiladelphia, November 6, C r,dll
LL persons defirons to contraa for furnifhing of
trnrtn PK 5 , st o res, for the «° dec
•troopi in Philadelphia or Fort-Mifflin, on MuAJfiand, ed to
f J CaT 1 are requeued to fend tlie>ym- d m ; e>
pofaUfealed, on cr before the day of Decent
' TENCH FRANCIS, Purveyor. H° n
1 ne component parts of the Rations, are pppom
1 pound of Flour or Bread mo pre'
I pound of Beef or 3.4 ef a pound of Pork fthodgl
i-a a gill o A Rum, Brandy I 7an
or Whiskey i lan
1 quart of Salt , fmy ovr
a quarts of Vinegar \ Jthe U.:
a pounds of Soap ; 100 Rations Ibcfoun
x pound of Candles J* ffervc p
ITottery and BrokerVOffi^T — sI%f I %" b
No. 64, South Second street ik
T?S::w »' "X tale—a
.h, l";:!,"; ' prim f .J J"
sarrs&t Us
«■
P«t a " the P rizt ''» late New- Smith,
SS,h2; m "'' Ho "' - P "" i « "«-r. f"r Vfiiel
The fubferiber solicits the application of ,k„ ''° rt
and bis friends, who wish to purchase or fell Bank L Fur t Bi
jr.BUckbur*. |sr
live O- trnrnrnmrnm^mmmmimmmmmm— —
e Th,t Philadelphia,
It. Jef- TUESDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 15, 1796.
d hive — — —
-ago- OFFICIAL.
rowing Return of Votes from Luzerne County.
:!Te*tial federal,«
ence of Anti, g
:hebe!l
tft inlet Majority f.r the Federal Ticket, 399
t>"pre- A ® lED , at Providence, (R. 1.) on the 4th inft. fud- '
urrent n "l y ' JoHK merchant of that place, 1
f m t |, e 34t j, yJar 0 £ hls ag( . f ,
Tt k h ' S C ' ty ' last ni E ht - ver y fi'ddenlv, Mr.
11 this Rowland Parry-, goldsmith and jeweller. t
tp the |
of his State of the Poll, for an Ele^ir.hp'tWuJper v
" T >23 il""' m " a [ "*"» tfcfc »'
trade. «» >
on Charles-City, f"' t
venues New-Kent, 57 6o *
manu- Henrico, XO4 TJO t |
come, I
than Total,
" tC °f Majority 38 O
' tUra Pot,)' 6 "" l r T Vir «^ nla » informs that Col.rLeven
e was P:i,: CWfaM£MorrfPr£ta E
lot be —
t0 thC d ffct e P °" of the 7 th dillria of Mary- [,
C P en " d? T r ( l A Ce< i ' C3nntl " 3 ' Wednef. t
it and he vot " Wis follows—
une r -i Jn °' Gl, P"»- Lambert Baird
une- Cecil county, 344 - g
Is 011 j Kent county, <a
: pas I . y it Jfi
886 , gB "
>n of j *8o fn
Jated I M. . , ~~~ t0
it de- I for Gilpin, 606
luced r ;. L P ', n iS fu PP° ibd to antifederal. be
S i, ' te r
■J% •«», if liartbfii v *,
1 ?'it I — off
raor- I J ,. D, ? HA '*, (MasT) Nov. Nov. 8. ani
*5 „ 1"
h«h unMHuihSttS; "i, l'r',
' H.G.Otis, pr£
1 'he j Wm. Heath, I \" e
1 en- I _ an
lich i I boj
n' 1 ~ feq
jlan' I A f am '' s book was wtinen in 1786, and me.
>lan. much read and commented on in the United States off
f €r ' I ioon after it appenred Yer \f, ai in. I i
the IrAv;- t> r j r \ M ' Ad ams was cleft- ted
and I V,cc ? rcfident of 'he United States in ,789, by La
not h" a '"; oft - UDan ' moMS »ote. Mr. Adams' book was por
SafiftErVE-t*:»"».• - f<»
z r" p " u r E ->;.
3 cir 1? P " bli ?"* r '° m or
rhe a. loud Cry ,nonarcf 'yand ariftoctacy was pefi
o, , VI 1 " "" W > the of the U- C
93. "'ted States elected Mr. A<W Vice P tc fide„t bv mat
eat. rrasn-r WiliOTy lr,srr man believe that !oc
re- so eLhed^°ft a w mer 7- W °, Uld lwice ra,Ted to fifhi
rt 1 ' tat,c »" a friend to monarchy ,<WiH the that
P C a »y regard to these old chir«T "X n v
Z '"XZZ ®5y2
Hi. might ha.c b„„ I S! "
>re- I veatson t}v/« r v ? ' r ncar I nura
1y a son tiie death or refignatrdn of the Prrfl ♦ i
"" s«ii." w ' si " n ,it ,ie ~,=
I I the
~ Mr. Fenno, ~~ I "7.
" Schooner f J
nc. l h ;. P , e r m ff ° n granted t0 hln '' t0 la »d prohibited
:ia> gocd . fufficient to repair hi, damages. It has also
lr «rnffin l X -
iy carried into Leoganeand other French tmrts
_ P r ! ze ?— the only RO od reason that 1 know of for
(hart't' f E " S ' ;th have deftr oycd within a
(ld (h time, from 30 to 40 of the brigand boats.
Your '» M. Ship
J BY THIS DAY's MAILS. &ll ' r
RICHM OND, November 2. Sloop
/l ™r* fto / Lt OT THE ON,T " states.
j*; yuaZ: foISS £ Brig
«.0 M. r p,i„ g ,hat 5 t„ldTcX i '
d, ed to me, because of my inability to difchar-e tbl I
aV f "in a proper manner. 0 ' Slosp
tllou Sh lam not so vain as to suppose that „
piajority of the cleftors would call me to that h,lh
Appointment, yet as this communication mav te!d
jro prevent embarrafTment in the fufFrao-p* I u ® r 'K '
Thought that candor obliged me fe. 1 C
I lam conlolcd for the l -l f
J
I That wisdom and virtue may mart th- „i, ■
, fc ouc «• ° f a .
, J IC 0 yourfellow-cntzen and well-wifter, f' lc
./ Nov. 3d, ,796. HENRY.
NORFOLK, November 7. as c ">*
Yellerday arrived here the brig Norfolk ' ate Ms
veTl I 0'" fk ? art ' niqUC and Anguflla. By this lin S' ho
If w«- l«rn that there were 2 r f,;) of thr I th " o'clock
lz Llo£'j™:;
ort Bourbon, preparing to attack PiuJ 1
* *
| P,, """ d " B " b ." ICt * 111 •( Sep %
1 Nov.
In the severe gale on Tuesday last, no less than
14 fail of different sized vessels were drove on Cur
rituck shore, some of them totally loft-with part of
[796. their crews. 7
A large deputation of the Six Nation Indians ■*
have lately hnd a conference with the commanding te
7' officer of the Federal troops at Niagara, at that
port. Ihe objedl of this'conference was, to ob
tain from the Indians the piivilege of cutting a
road through their lands from Canandarqua to Ni
agara. This had been refufed to them at the trea-
held by Colonel Pickering, but has now been
t place, ctcerFu . ll r granted. The COl nplanter was among rp (
the Chiefs at the conference.
y, Mr. J ut lg e Williamfon, of Genefee, has lately eaufed
to be hmlt at Oeneva, a veffal of 50 tons. It was
launched a few days (ince into the- Seneca lake ; it pi
v - a ' ,s called the Williamfon, and is the largest vessel
e upper w hich ever before floated on the Senfca waters.
1 he London papers of the 126 September con
iffin. tain accounts from India to the 20th April, and
s the Cape of Good Hope to i6th'March, by whieh
13 lf appears that Batavia continued in the hands of
the Dutch, and that a Dutch frigate had arrived
■ there with a copy of the treaty between the French
'4 and Dutch republics. No attack had been made ]
on the Cape, but it was expected. I
Leven WILMINGTON, Nov. 14.
Vice- Electors of President and Vice-President of the J
United States, as appointed by this State : M
R-'ChAkD Basset, Thomas Robinson, and
i ary- Isaac Cooper—[Federal, republican men—truly
ednel- ihi's (late is entirely fedeial.] Po
NEW-YORK, November ja..
ST. JOHN's, NEWFOUNDI+IND.
A letter from which the following is an extract, I
was received yesterday by a gentleman in this city, I
from his correspondent at St. John's, dated Ou
tober 10, 1796. I Mri
" I am foi ry to infotm you that capt. Porte has f
been captured by a squadron of French men of war, j
Duval under the command of admiral Richery, which late
or of ly made their escape from Cadiz, confrfling of fe
-010 *2 ' all ° f lheJiue and 3 frigates. They appeared The
off this harbor early in the morning of the Ift wit. I
g- and had they tljen made an attempt on this place, £) 0
I have no doubt they would have carried it, which
am now happy to lay, fhoiild they now attack it, I a
they would fail therein, as I think we a,e now in a 1
pretty good state of defence." The .writer pro
ceeds to itate, that on the appearance of the fleet I
an immediate embargo was laid on all vessels and
boats—that a total) Ibgnation of business had in con
ltquence erifued, but which was eXpe&ed to be im- I
and mediately revived—That the French fleet had been A
tates off and landed troops at Bull's Bay (as before fla
left- ted in our former accounts) had also gone down the
1, by Labradore coast, burning and deltroying several J
was ports and confidence property-and by taking a„
now that route had intercepts the Quebec fleet of 1 j
a as fail off the ftreighls of Belle-Isle, seven of which *
' t! 'fy had captured. That as the fleet was not seen I Mr
:to or heard of lince, no further attempts were ex- I ' n S t}
was pected. Schoc
U Captauj Thempfon, by whom the above infor- I Mr * l
•by receive, l,a S dated verbally th«t about uy*
hat .00 fail of square rigged vessels, and 200 fail of w hicf
, l ° si . h,n K fl "°PS were lying embargoed at St. Johns—
the that the Brmfh naval fo'ce cenfifting of the Rom- V
wiy ney of 50 guns, Admiral Sir J. Wallace—the Ve- lhe da
, "" s a . nti Mercury frigates of 32 guns each, and the as th , £
ue o.iatk and Fuiy sloops of war—that a confiderahie 10 Si
our number of the pnfi.ners from the Quebec fleet had Tic
rn. been hbcated aud lent into different ports in small Chefn
Vessels taken on the coast—who spoke highly of $T
t>e humane treatm*nt received fioai admiral Rtche b y a PP
ry, and ,hfe oilier officers. The French fleet was icrs jj
the 1 a r tC t f 'I- abunda ";ly Applied with provisions,
K so milerably clad, that they took \-Oil
• the fails of the different vessels they destroyed and
'"H y CUt thCm UP '" t0 artid " wearing j
ted
.Iso
Ite- GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES MARINE LIST.
as '*" st
£ t PhTa, November ij. '"m,
- I " count
•5V r ARRIVED. Dav . « Cour
Ship James, Garrett, returned .n distress, havin K ' " Icls >
ct. fP ru "g a leak. B
ocn r Trial, Ropes, q . 1 In co
Periphas, Dunn New-Vork ? tates 1
I?bree Sifters, Smith i
Sloop Polly, Gladding Rhodf IflnnH t^lc u1
, Mayflower, Lo?d Khode-Ifland lo timc , d
, Brig Ariel, Gardner SainTpr I
.; •' T f he b ;'K ««»ter, Hawkins, was to iS T1 " =
■' r in a few days after captain Gardner. P ° rt Post-Os
3 c ,. . CLEARED. and at
n. Ship I hree Friends, Bradford Brcwera
3n Sch'r Mary, Douglafs SJi V C lowhlJl
:r- Maria, Hudgiu York-Town in S t 0 '
be o> Bet . fe y> AOiby, Wirt,'- S " grefs ( 0I
Slosp Swift, D»ugh >j afo'Hgton cinema
s " . North-Carolina oa.
;h New-York, Nor. 14.
Caroline, Porter a ... 5 M <
f Mermaid, HaHey A "^" lla 20 T^ER
if A - t «,r 7 do. 20 City Of I
" America, Wheedon do _ The S
Mary, Peirfon do> daily pa s
■- n . "' le,tHr y» Davidfon 'cfcarlefton K 'on. Bait
,t- d . Ihomas 22 Tea, C
lliram, Buchanan St. Bartho . 22 of Frtncl
Hannah. liunt will as al
-
n-v ti ——«—— approved
OCT lhe Officers of the Militia of Philadelphia TheLa
ling-house, in Chefnut c ' r omhii late dwel- accommoi
• o'clock tn n> n " f ' " earS ccond-ftreet, at three hours mo(
O to-morrow afternoon. reg«larly!
V * 1 at th© bar
TOnuitwaeker; —
0t 73> South Front Street requifitc.
u w n. Has for ****> cir
3 oga cadl tobaccQ of Richmond ins fti execute th
•I t £ itsssaJt- sas
mw&f 3 t. Philadel
% Jujt Landing, .
811 " r And for Sale, a quantity of
partof BOUKD£aUX BRANDY,
FROM on board the fchoouer Lydia & Polly, Oliver
Jenkins matter, lying at Wilcock's wharf. For
landing twms, enquire on board said schooner.
at that November-'isth. fxw
rt f ,°ng ob a Pantheon,
to Ni- ANn Rre SETTS'J AMPHITHEATRE.
hetrea- or EoLwsstrian and Stage Performances,
w j, een Corner of Chefnut and Sixth-streets.
* m ° ns TO-MORROW EVENING, Wedncfday,. No
caufed W M^ ber \ 6 ' ,
j t was Wl » be P'tiented,
b . A VARIETY OF
ve'fTei Pkafing and Novel Entertainments ;
rs. ACT I. \
:r con- Tight Rope Dancing,
I, and By Mr. Spinacuta.
whieh Clown to the Rope, Mr. Durang.
ids of act/f\.
; rnve <j Horsemanship,
rench By Mr, Ricketts, Mr. F. Ricketts, Mr. Franklin,
ma e Matter I'ranklin, Mailer Hutchins, the Young
American, and Mrs. Spinacuta.
>f the Clown to the Horfemanlhip, Mr. Sully.
4 J ACT 111.
,~ndwL A Ballet Dance,
-trufy s^n( ' er 'be direfHon of Mr. Durang, called
Poor Jack ; or, the Benevolent Crew.
Poor Jack, Mr. Durang.
Ned Haulyard, Mr. Sully.
tract, Boatswain, Mr. Coffic.
city,' Sailors' LalTcs, "I
Q c . J Mtfs Rvbtnfon.
Mr«. Cafey, Wrapping Landlady, Mr. Tompkins.
e has And ° ran g e Gill, Mrs. Durang.
war, f CT '*■
late- Equestrian Exercises,
f f®" By the Equeftrsan Groupe. r
sared The whole to conclude with the splendid Panto
alt. mime of
Don Jnas; or the Libertine Deflroy'd.
Under the Direflion of Mr. Sully.
■ J performed at Cor;nt Garden Theatre, forty
nights, with unbounded applauift
fleet )CMI Ua "' Su"y
anj Commaudant, Mr. Tompkins, ,
Lover, Mr. Durang.
. • " Fisherman, Mr. Coffir.
een Sailor, Mr. F. Ricketts.
And Scaramouch, Mr Spinacuta.
t t j ltf Ift Filhwoman, Mrs. Durang.
rera j 2 d Ditto, Miss Robinson.
• v Donna Anna, Mrs. Spinacuta.
t An accurate description of the Pintomine to be had *t
, .? the i icket-Office
tiich x
seen Mr. RICKETTS takes this opportunity of inform*
cx- * n 8 the Ladies and Gentlemen who attend the R'ding-
School, that he lias, at considerable expense, engaged
f or . • i' ra| lklin, to give leflons in the art of riding and
iutir ™ a 'V£'"K Hcrfej, as he finds it impofiib'.e to attend to
it himfelt, m consequence of a variety of bufmefs
of which he is at present engaged in.
r>m- . Ihe Ladies and Gentlemen who secure featsi
Ve- lhe ° a y t™f, are requested to attend punflually at 7,
the as , P e ["' orm ances are so arranged as to concludes/
ibJe 10 o — t ' le d( ? ors open at 6.
i , £f Box, 7s. 6d.—Pit, 3 s. 9 d.
111 CJ/w nto hC . had ° f Mr " Ford ' at the tiiket ° ffi « I"
nail CLcfniit.flreet, from ten to three o'clock each day.
of C? Silver Tickets, to admit for the season, to be had
he. by applying to Mr. P icketts at the Panthfon, or at Oel-
S S
'18. d 3 Pr? ° f P " f ° rmance 'o &e Monday, Wednef.
>ok 1 hu ' lday and Saturday.
!" d _ No. 154.
lllg , '®'-£ r J 3 °f Pem >fylvania, to Koit t
i ZTr. CR7. " rem . emD L ere<i tha; on the l6 th dayofSep.
< seal U tetnber.in the twenty-firft year of the Irde.
i PC ! :n ' e of the Un «ed States of America A
r -
' h ®
• J2KL«a£S,!fsiSfaF "is*""""".
By ABRAHAM BRADLEY, iun "
3 ine by fecurinCT 7 6■l of leariv
3 thf Jutho "T, Ple - S ° f mapS ' Charts - books to
I Samuel Caldwell, Clerk,
SIS:;:
» £SSTaSS ..
— — iaw6\v.
1. ™t, Samuel Richardet
o R 'PECTFULEY informs the Gentlemen
0 CITY
9 City of Philadehhia. HOUbE in the
1
t tizr^ d
• the cho\cTof^4t P W°.uo b u s ' n L- with
' productions of the Scafon W prime alld
• B a Sftl n gle Gent,emc "' m »r ho
: hours moll convenient to themf>] ' S ' 7 Su PP"'. "C
regularly k*pt '?* C ° lla " on -
at th» bar. nc y, th* BiUof Fare to be had
..a .
requisite. cleanhnefs, and every otl.tr
the commands of *h' W f" be ha PPX to and
'arge; and with g ra t tule for "
himfelf that nothing on hi, VJ Zn?""' pkd *"
fcrvc that patronage with whLi h u i w J««ng- to yn -
ingly Zionored. ha#been so diHing^ ilu.
Philadelphia, April iq.
n»wt ■* . .
io bogflieads St. Croix Rum,
$ Pipe? Vinegar,
For Sale, by /^NEOf
Ezekiel Hall, (jr 2nd
No. 20, Penn Street. Union, ih
•»t.. "» Ed, and r
Wl' - hrary, wi
Fashionable Waistcoating. | manner.r
Prints
GEORGE DOBSON, No. 25,
80UTH THIRD-STREET, °"chdef
Hat received per the Diana, front London, Qjallbe
Clouded and striped Spanish Swanfdown A nui
'Clouded Ermiruts and Molefkics
-Striped do. and do. A con
Figured Manillas ov '
Scarlet figured Ermmeti
Printed llorinetts
■ Do. CalTmcts and C aflimeres f mJ
Superfine printed 'Quiltmys, tieweft po'.ter'ES
Alio, per different arrivals,
A large and general affortmont of Dry RET
Goods, he has 1
Suitable to the prefer and approach in J season.
■November s . , dtf - ■ ■ Lc.cn
FOR SALE. cu £ c th n '
A PLANTATION, %£
ABOUT I a miles from this City, (ituate in Abifcg- of eithe
ton Township, Montgomery-County ; containing artd the
*70 acres, a new ftor.e house, two Itories high, a rooms otrjp them
floor, fire places in each, a stone kitchen and stone f^rtri\ careful
house, over an excellent spring of water, a barn, ftable,f made c
ftieds, barracks, Zee. A large apple orchard, and a variety© J?" 1 ** 1
other fruit, about 12 acres of good meadow well watered, forth u
and wood fuffieiem for fire, and fencing the place. Poltcfli- all thol
on may be had the ift of Ap«il next. Property in this city tuiiy t>
will be taken in exchange, or MORRIS and NICHOLSON. s AUc
Noies in payment. Enquire at No. 37, Arch»Street. . . '
Philadelphia, September 11, u ' r ?,® n
, i he
Philadelphia, 6tb Novemhr y 1796. ed,tha
ALL perfonsdefirous to to furnifh fbrthe Ar- Uud w
Hy of the United States, the following articles, or any por- tnc vet
tion of them, are refuelled to fend in their proposals fcal- public
cd on or before the 15th December next to br!n g l
Tench Francis, Purveyor.
, 5 » Pair or leather breeches, ■> The patterns maybe be reu
152 P'ir of boots, J viewed at Samuel Kudg- agreea
,041 Artillery hats, Icon's, Esq. public [lore fubfer
»>cß Infantry hats, (on the nrlt wharf above able g,
4600 Pair of ftoes, No. 1: j Atcb-ftwet. friend
Sooo Pair of (hoes, No. a. J ; he he
November 8. & f ! Pt the lit
~~ ' and p
Sheridan's Dictionary,
TEE SIXTH tDITION,
Is this T)ay Publiflied, - —
Br W. rOVJf G, MILLS fef'so-.V,
Corner of Second and Chefnut ftrects, Z j
In one large Bto. -volume, price 3 dollars.
A COMPLETE DICTIONARY ol the ENGLHH
XAN6OAOE, both •with regard to found and meaning,
•ae main object of whichis to eftabliih a plain and per- Situat
manent Standard of Pronunciation. To which is prefixed, '
a Prefodial Grammar. 1
BT tHOttAS SBiKIOAU, A. M. J fI QU
Oftpber 11. tt&s c c tj a
RAN AW AT,
About the ift of October last, from the plantation of a f u j]
Mr. Thomas F. Brooke, (in Prince George's county) to Chril
whom he waaiiired, -a NEGRO HVI AN, CAESAR ; tilui
33 years of age ; about 5 Bor 9 inches high; well stone
made; of a yeHowilh complexion \ a little pockmarkcd : hoafi
has, when spoken rather a down look, and fubmifiive nent,
tone of voice: th« clothes he had before he abfeonderd boun
wele of plain, such as labouring Negroes usually wear■, te v
but these he may probably exchange for others : lie will in g*
doubtless endeavour to pass for a freeman, having, as I
have been informed, «fTumed the name of Butler : I have " aJ
reason to believe that he went to Baltimore, from whence
be is said to have gone to some part of the Sufquehannah,
probably with a view of getting to Pennsylvania. A
reward of Thirty Dollars will be given to the perion who p jdct
may take him and To secure him in some iail that I may
get him again, if taken in this slate, and Fifty dollars if f ron ,
taken out of the ftat« 4 and if brought home or feeured in y tr( ;
the iail of Prince George's county all rcafonablc charges ence
will be paid by ALEXR. COVING I ON. -men
Maryland, Fricce County, "> tc»t>
and November, 1796. J Ilth*t&f4 w niof
may
■' — —— " it ap
James M ( Alpin, Taylor,
No. 3, South Fourth-Jlreet, Wii
RETURNS his grateful acknowledgments to his A
Friends and the Public for their liberal encouragement, St «
and begs l«-ive to foKcit a continuance of their favora.
He has on hand an extenuve alTortment of the ~~
Mojl Fajhwnable GOODS,
And of the befl quality, fnotable for the fejfon.
At this scop Gentlemen can be furniJhed with the best
materials, and have them made up in the neatest and mod
Falhionable manner, «nd on the ihortefl noriee—He will
thankfully receive any orders, and pay a prompt and
pun&ual attention to them.
November 10. W9t f 1 '
FOR SJtL E, ££
A very ValuablJ Eltate,
CALI.ED TWITTENHAM, f:tuate in the wi
township of Opper Derby, and county of Delaware,
7 t-l miles from Philadelphia, and half a mile frem the y Q
new Wefternrooff containing 130 acres of •icellent land,
45 of which are good watered meadow, 51c of prinae wood
land, and the reft arable of tlw firlt quality. There are ' Kn
on the premises a good two (lory brick house, with 4 rooms Djl
on a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a pump-v/eK Dj
of excellent water in front; a large frame barn, ltablcs, ?ll
and other convenient buildings; a fmoke-koufe and stone,
spring-house; two good apple orchards, and one of peach-
es. The fields are all in clover, exccpt those immediately
under tillage, and are so laid out as to have the jdvartage
of water in each of them, which renders k peculiarly con- '
venient for grazing.
The situation is pleasant and healthy, and from the high
cultivation of the land, the good neighbourhood, and the
vicinity to the city, it is vary fu it able for a gentleman's ,
tountry feat. j-T
The foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Harman g
deceased, and offered for sale by n ,
Mordecai Lewis, «
o<£l. it. law Surviving Executor 10
. j
Mr. FRANCIS, u
(0/ the New Theatre) v
TAKES this opportunity of returning thanks to his
scholars and to the public. ■ Mr. Francis intends,
on his return from Maryland, to open a public aca
dtmy for dancing, upon a plan entirely new. He ' r
fiatters himfelf tna* his attention to his pupils hi- T
therto renders any promises of conducing his future t
fcheir.es on the most liberal and ftritSltft terms, of pro
priety, totilly.un»ecelTary.
iV. B. Private tuition as uivaL _ t
June i , law |
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 313, HIGH-STREtT, f
GEORGE DAVIS announces to h» profeflional Irrentls, ic\
and the Gentlemeu of the Law 6 enei*lly tbr. the
Union, that his laieimportation of BOOKS is now atrang
ed, and r<,dy for Sale, from a Tingle volum, to an enure li
brary, without any advance upsn his former exceeding o a
prices, which tor feversl years paA have in so dlttmguithcd An iff
manner recommcnticd them :o notice. i.igr
Printed Gatalogoes combining the mott extenuve collet- r^p3 u e
tion cf the latest tuglilh and Irtfh Editions ever imported
into this co.ntry, are p«bli(hed,and de.ivered grau» , Nov
on application. j n. "
Orders addrtffed to G. D. in wntiug from ary diftaoec
(hall be punctually at «rid« d to*
A number of 1 RUNKS for Sale.
ALSO, TO BE LET, T
A convenient LOFT, near Ma:Kct Street Wharf. | > r
Nov-«■ edTe
SWANN'S, _ £I°%
Riding Scbjdt, tfarjk Academy lS> Infirmary, fuperit
Adw/.uin" the Pubiic Square, Market / tentioi
J °X. SVVANN
) RETCRinS his liucere thanks totr ofe gentlemen by whom P.
he has been employed, duiinj; his roiidehcc io thii City, and Locke
fiaticrrhimfclf tiiat the fiiccds ot his etfoits, in the nuraerous, in
obftioate and dangerous drfcaiVs in Horfcs, in whicu has
— becu confultcd, with his modeiate charges, willle
cure their future lavors and rccammendation.
He now leave to miorm thain and the public at large
that hts Ipaoious and commodious premises, eredled for the
purposes above described are epen for the reception of pupils
g" of either sex, who wiftlto bc-.nfirutted in the Art of Hiding, j£__w -
arfd the right method of governing theii horses, so as to ride 5_ X
rag them with cafe, elegance, and lately—their hoifea will be Pots,
(ft carefully and expeduiooily broke, for every purpoie, and Crear
e,f made obedient to the will of the riders ; the natural powers Brack
10 which are ftiut up in them, wili be unfolded byiirt, cailmg of Si',
d, forth unitormity ot motion, add giving to that noble animal raDte<
Ti- all those beauties of atlion which providence has so bounti
ity fully bellowed on them. Eear
Also, at hFs hospital, every diforc er to Which the horle is j^ nte
liable will be treated according to the rules of art, confirmed ranc
by long and repeated experience. ,i
— The utility of the above iuilitution has never been qncftion
ed, that it has long been wanted in this city, gentleman's
ir- liud willmanileft, and T. SwA*n.as the tiiil cftablilher of b.ack
>r- theveterenary art, folicitt and relics upon the fuppoitofthai A!]
al- public (which he u ever anxious in tervin#) to enable him to tures
bring it to perlettion. The idea of a faplcriptiun that jvj,
purpofc has beeu hinted by teveial gentleman, 10 '
promote the infliction—the amount ol each fubfeription to
be be returned by fcrvices in any of the departments he profc iies,
ig- a g fe c*ble to the rate of charges stated in his hand bill. Stcfi
orc fubfeription isaow open, and the fegnaturcsof many relpe£t
,vt able gent*eiaeu already obtained. He therefore injorms his *
trieuds ana fut h Ladies and gentlemen to whom tie has not j
'he honor of being known, mat he lhall in a tew days take j
| the liberty of waiting upon them and soliciting their tifpport ,
and protection. I
N B. Horses sre properly prepared for those Ladies and ;
Gentlemen who wiih to be ! cut >
Nov. r tth&f. ar.d i
1 Hinj
IO BE SOLD,
A LEASE for fitum years,from the 2 $th March next, in tbut
capital and btautiJuL FARAI % calltti .
11 PROSPEC T-H ILL, Nee,
icr- Situated within one quarter of a mile from the Brandywinc Hoi
£c ,j Mills, and Haifa mile from the borough of Wilmington. Brja
' dwelling house is built of Hone, two ft ones high, . Sa .
•1 gcnteely finilhed, and conuinsfour handfomc room, on kind
a floor, befidesan entry, withc.pitalgarrets, and convenient
c e i]ars. It is generally thougkt lo command tnc most a- o
greeablt profpeft of th-j Delaware, from the fottrce of that
rivci to the Capes. This profpeft ia greatly einbaiifhcd by
los a full view of a vast body ot meadow, through which the
)to Chrilliana and Brandy wine creeks are fecn winding in be*j- <J;
\R; .;r„i JJcar the house are a Kitchen, i fpacj«us •' •
well stone liable and hay loft, a barn, a carriageTToute, milk
ted: hoafe, 4cc. and > well of as pure water as any on conti- In
flive nent. The garden contains an acre >nd quarter of land, a- H
ided bounding with fruit, and particularly with peach treci, of on J
ear , the very best kind, brought from Maryland, and in fulj bear- I y OU
will ing- There '•> moreover, on the place, a young, apple ! the
as I orchard begining to hear, and several old trees that produce ~
have abundantly, betides cherry and other ornamental iro:s in I - nfr
great numbers. The farm consists of near fixft acre* of land, f
h of good quality, and clear of incumbrancts, exctpt taxes,
' ' twenty ot which arenow in excellent clover and timothy,
, and ten more will be ready for lowing r.ext fpwng. A re
w fidetiCe ol uearly 8 years has convinced the fubferiber that
ma y the si liation is remarkably healthy, -The great post io»S
r» if f rom Philadelphia to the Southward "runs within seventy
:d in yar[ j s „f ,h c house. In a word, the beauties and eonveni
irges rncr of thr;, situation cannot be enumerated in au advertifc-
N. ment, and when examiped. will probably command the at
tention of any pcrfon who isdefirous of living at one of the
;w most elegant country feats on the continent. The purehafcr *
mayenteron the prremil-s next spring, or perhaps, this tall, th*i
" itapplication be immediately made to Dottor NICHOLAS
WAY, in Philadelphia, to Doctor WHARTON, on the ]
preraifes. or, in his ablencc, to Mr. GKOiiGE IRUi i T, iu
Wilmington.
, his A quantity of excellent Hay, Grain in the ground some
ncnt Stock, &c. may be had by the purchaler at the time oi iale.
rs. ' N»v- 7- g V (
New Hat and HosiEur St one,
Wholesale, and Retail, rtv
■ best f
most By WILLIAM M'DOUGALI>, G "
; wU ] No. 134, Market Street, 3 d door from the corner
'of Fourth, South Side. Ca
rst f Mens' Black American and Englih Hats, rf varieus qual
ities and prices.
Ditto Drabs and Greefa-undsrs. q 2
Ladies' ditto black
And a large assortment of fancy ditto
' , Coloured Beavers
n the lt b a great variety -of elegant and faf&onablc trim-
mingb' &c.
m 1 j Youth's black and drab coleitred ditto.
tUnd, children's fancy ditto —
wood- A j| 0 f (ilt, (ilk and cotton, cotton and thread hose
re are K n i t coloured Pantaloons
rooms Ditto Driwers
p-well o; tto Breeches Patterns :
Us ' S.lk Gloves P
none, knotted, coloured ditto, eottoa. f c
P eac '" A quantity of mending cot ton, sorted colours. ' *
.lately B. The hats finilhed in the newest falho*.
intage OQ. >7* eodim.
ly con- '
ichigh STOP THE THIEVES!!!
eman's. LAST Wednesday Evening, O&ober 19, between the
h«urs of y and-10 o'clock-, the bed 100 mof Mr Rickettsia
O'tller's hotel was entered, cither by means of faife -,
arir.an Qrat t^c window, by some villain or villains, who mull have
been acquainted with the Gtuation of the house (as the door -
1S 9 v was found locked after they scad committed the theftX whp
i tt)f took away from amongst leveral trunks, ONE which con-
tained a valuable part of Mr. Rickey's property, but of which I *"
he is not yet able to aieerta'.n the contents particularly. As- J
ter bringing the said trunk away, and emptying it of up- |
wards of a thousand dollars in cash and bank notes, the viU
is to his la * ns - * behind the circus, during the time that the per
•ittiids formances of the evening were going forward' i
iu:>, It is earnestly requested, that all tavern-keepers on the flage
ic a S?" roads, ai>d the ferry houses, as well as all civil officers, may
W. Me be watchful in fccuring suspicious perfous, who may have a
pils hi- redundance of cash, which their appearance wuuid by no
» future meansbefpeak them to be poiTefied of.
of pro- One Hundred Dollars Re-ward
Will be given for securing tke tlsief or thieves, and a fur-
I ther reward for securing then with the piorcrtv.
«w| OSij. r t >
For Sale by John J. Parry,
a3B, 5. Second near tbefnut-ftruU A
A few excellent GOLD WATCHES, Me*
From Forty to One Hundred Dollars,
And SILVER WATCHES, JTb
Of variou. prices —all warranted. j
An ass 'rt merit of Chains Seal., Key., «d Tr»keU, y^
Eigltt Day Clocks fuppbed. and Locks & poundi
repaired with difpitch and great Bare. requefl
Watch Glaflis by the groce. _ . _ the Cil
November It- ——- — at 6 c
■ 'ROWLAND PARRY. cox, \
-GOLD SMITH & JEWELLER, *£*!
No 3 6,<HtSNUT-STKKrT; , ffi
Tt AS jurt opened a large and elegant afTortment o
11 PLATED WARE and JEWELLI RY, jappan- P > t<
- ed Tea and Coffce Urn., of different patterns, Ivory, * hc
Handled -Knives ,-nd Forks, ICmfe Cases, Sec. &c. JJ c(J
the above articles (paticularly the plated) are ot a very thcy
superior quality, it is presumed they will merit the at- ;{
- tcntion of thoie who with to purchile, to whom they some ,
are refpeafully offered 011 equitable terms. him f<
r, P. S. Setts of Sitver Tlate, Mourning ring, and cre< j; t
d Loekt's, Miniature Settings, and every thing m lyOia COUIl(
iiid Silver, made in the belt manner. in div
N'tiT. %. ■ Cot c
c . — — ~T Itwoi
lames Mulgrave, nia™
'£ GOLDSMITH & JEWELLER,
;i. Ne.4Z, south Second-Ilreet, ,
g. ]TT AS 3 uft received an assortment of I'lated V> ate
ie H. and Jewellery, l'latcd Tea and Coffee Urm, (effee t«ey
be Pots, Tea ditto, Ca.Ws from sto 8 boliUs, and
■d Cream Basons, Bottle Stands, Balkets, high Caltaictlicsj Ph
:rs Brackets and Chamber ditto, Branches, Sco.icw, a variety
'g of Silver and I'lated Shoe Lalchew, Spurs, fcfe. 'Jc. war
ranted of the heft plate; I.adieb and Gen:.-mens Gold
"" Watch Chains, Seals and Keys; Necklace*, Neck Chains, p*, v
Eear Rings, Finger Rings, Lockets, Brtaft P11", Stone
„' d s Knte-Bucklos, with many other a.ticks in the above
branches. »
He ha. likcwife received an extensive iHoftment ot J
'"■] japann'd tea and 'coffee Urns perlian, blue, brown,
of black and gold. _ . . Rc
hat Jk!l kinds of work inthe gold and silver line; niitua- Fl
to tures set, and hair ws?k executed as usual. » H.
November _ tu th & f 1K
n Imported in the late arrivals, lN
fes, And to be Sold by p,
JACOB PARKE,
b i"s No. 49, North fide of High-street, Philadelphia, entir
IJOI A GSNtRjtL JtSSOkIURHT OF Sc
> Ironmongery, Cutlery, Sadlery, &c.
AMOKCST WHICH ARE
„,a SMITHS' Anvils, Vices, and Files; Saw mill, Crofi
eut, Hand, and other Saws; Carpenters' Planes, Chisels,
ar.d other Tools; Carving Chisels and Gouges.; Locks,
Hinges, Bolts and Latciies.; Nails, Sprigs, Ta&s, and
: Screws; Frying-Pans; Smoothing-irons; Shovels and
Tongs; Ceffcc Mills; Candleiticks; Snuffers; Warming
' Pans; Table Knives and Forks; RYJiAg Whips; Bar- tyh
low Pen, and ether Pocket Knives; Razors; Sciffars;
Needles; Ivory and Horn Combs; belt Kirby Fish
rint Hooks; br»fs Cabinet Furniture ; Waggon Boxes ; Sheet g (
1. Brjafs; plated and cin'd Bridle Bits and Stirrups ; itto tt
igh, Sa die Nails; Girth and Straining Webbswith raoft jj
on I kinds of Ironmongery, Cutlery, Sadlery, Brass Wares, D
'e pt ! &c. Sec. '1
!»-; OiSeber 14. mv.-ffrv.-
X \ DANCING SCHOOL.
l hc WLLIAM M'DODGAIX wiQopcn hit school ob Mob- g;
»u- <iay the "31ft ioft. «t ten 6'clock in tb« morning, at hir
—Elegant
►nti- In Fourth, between Cbefnut and Walnut Streets. A
,a- Hours of t«ition for young ladies, from io & o'clock ' H
» on Moneys, Wednesday, and Friday mornings; and for
car " 1 young gentlemen from 6 to 9 o'clock on the evenings o
3 P^ e the fame days.
' uce In addition to a number of neWcotillioßs, he means to At
' m intryduce a variety of Scotch Reels.
cna> Hotc. The firft praitidng ball to be on Tucfday e- j
Teniftg, the firft of November, and to be continued every Cor
Tuelday, during the feafou. of
that For terms, &c, enauire at his house, Ncr.i 34, Market- ted
.oad Greet. ur crd
cmy '?• K
ueni- i-it 1 1 1 1
rtifc- i O DC oold, fid
s e t 00,400 Acres of Land.
hafcr Lying cn the river Alleghany, in the county of Nor- a;j;
fall, thwmbcrlind, in the State of Pciiufylvania. FO
LAS 4CO Acres Land, ont
0 In Bald Eagle towEfhip, Northumberland county Mi
r .aforefaid. ~
(ome 60,000 Acres Land,
l e . Lyingr-on the water, of the Oconee and Canouchee i
dif rivers, in the county of VVafhington, in the state of i in;
Georgia. ; on
174,000 Acres Land, j ™
tying oifthcAra'.er# of the Ohopee and Caaouchee ' j, 0l
frvtrs. ia the county of Montgomery, in the state of
Georgia.
' 3 1 °33 Acres Land,
rn ' r Lying in Orangeburglidiftri<3,in the fta'e of South
Carolina. And,
IUJ'"1 UJ '" 146,986 Acres Land, nv
Lying in Charleston diflrifl, in the laid state of South a
Carolina. to:
An Half acre Lot of Grood,
In the town of Richmond, Virginia.
trim- The above Lands will be fold low. —Apply to
George Meade.
Philadelphia, lithJJnv. 1796. tn&s t9thD
iofe To be Let,
A large cellar, io Walout-ftreet just above Fourth-Street, that
is floored with two inch piank, and will hold upwards of \QO
pipes of w ne.
Also, a Stable and Coach-house, that will hold four hor
fes and iwa carriages ; and several (lores in Fourih Street*—
Apply to
L George Meade.
Who has for sale,
( «5 boxes of Cafliie soap
Red Lisbon Wine
en the Acw P*P, es s bill of exchange wine
efts in A few barrels ot lrifh meU beef
r key s, baircU of fbip bread.
ifthavc Nov - 4- .4ist. n
;J Q h °' THIS DAY 16 i-UaL!SHiii>, i
h cori- Price 37 1-2 Cents. t
fwhich The Pretcnfions of Thomas Jeffer
ofup- son to the Presidency,
EXAMINED,
ptl And the Chartres Adams
hc REFUTED.
AkdrelTed to the Citizens of America in general*
by": *" d '
To the Electors of the Prejident.
1 Sold by
d a fur- W. YOUNG, MILLS & SON, Corner of Second
and Chciaut-ftreeu.
4 November s. tts
i
i
SALT P E T R E.
A qu jntity of Double-Refined Salt Pitre for
file at No. iS' South Thiril-ftreet.
November $.
The Creditors of Scott and M' Michael,
formerly merchants of this city, and who failed in the
year 1763. or 1764, (and from wljom thj I'*bfcri ier pur
chased bills of exchange to amount oi' fevcral hundred
pound* sterling, which have lain by h'm <;ver Cnce.) are
requested, evert man or them that it living-, to meet at
the City-Tavern on Tucfday, the 15th of November neat,
at 6 o'clock in the evening, in order to oblige Cbarks
Cox, formerly of this city, now of New-Jerfcy, and John
Bayard, formerly of said city, and speaker of ;'ae House
of Aflembly ef said state, now of Brunfwick, Niw-Jerfey,
affiguees oi said Scott & M'Michael, to come forward aid
pay over the monies they have had i« their hands belong
ing to the creditors these 31 or 33 years. Some years a
■ go the creditors were called together ; Mr. Cox appear
ed in behalf of himfclf and Mr. Bayard, and allege j tH»t
they were apprehensive they might be brought into trou
ble if they parted with the money (which 1 apprehend it
foine thousands,) as his Britannic Majesty had a debt due
him for government bill?: it was however agreed by the
creditors met, thit theaflignees (hculitake the opinion of
counlel; they did so, and it was that they would be sale
in dividing the money among the creditors. I urg«d Mr.
Cox to bring the business to a final close ; his answer was,
it would be but a trifling sum ; my reply was, if ever so
trifling, I would have my proportion of it. It has how
- evet lain over.
I therefore hope the creditors will now come forward
and oblige the alfignees to divide whatever they have, afid
. they onght to pay intercft too.
George Meade.
• Philadelphia, id November, 1796. dti^N*
[ " JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co.
I No. 8, CHESNUT STREET,
' Have Imported in the late vefTels from Europe, &c.
I AKD HAVE bOR SALE,
A gcseral affortnsent of GOODS, fuiuble to the season—
r Amougft which are,
Tl ROAD and narrow CLOTHS,
' 1J Plain and twiU'd COATINGS,
Rose striped and point BLANKETS,
FLANNELS and b \ISES,
HATS assorted in cases,
IRISH LINENS,
.INDIA GOODS, generally,
/, Confined Invoice of IRONMONGERY,
Comprising a capital assortment to open a {lore—inciu
xliug Thirty Cases of NAILS. This invoice will be fold
entire on very advantageous terms.
September zo. d
Wm. Holdernesse, No. 76,
HIGH- STREET^
Has received by the late arrivals,
A Well Selecitd Assort mint of
• Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
r. Haberdaihery Goods,
Which -he will 'fell, wholeCile and retail, en the very
1 '• lou eft terms ;
h Amongjl ixibicb are
:t Si<t«e elegant 4-4 and 7-8 Chintses and Cottons, new
" patterns
" Ditto Fnrniture ditto
•» Ditto Dimity
Tamboured, Book, and Jaconet Muslins
_ Ditto in Gold and Silver
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine
Mantuas of the firft quality
Silk and Cotton Hofieiy
Umbrellas of the firft quality, sfforted
t-itfi T in-m, .rrry fnr. -td T-Vp LinCrS
S. Marseilles and Cotton Counterpanes
■k ' Rose Blankets afforted —See. See.
, r Otflobsr l(j. d
0 Loft Last Evening,
t0 At Ricketts's Amphirhe; tr", (fuppoftd to Ve taken bf
feme villain out of a gentleman's preket)
c- A red Morocco-Leather POCKE 1 - BOOK.*
r.y Containing -about 185 dollars in banknotes; three notes
of knnd oi Rofs and Simfoti, No- 304* 3°5 306,
rt- ted c2th 1 ail Aoguft, payable 60 days alter, date, to re
order of Paul Siemen, together for 5150 dollars ; anordar
of Mrs. Ann acphcrfon} from Paul hitmen, on Lach-
lin Mac Neal, Esq. at rbrt-mu-Prince, f r lOOfiolhrs r be
sides several letters and papers of no use but to the proj-re
tpr. The notes of hand and order are without enriorfc
• iyant. EIGHTY DOLLARS REWARD is offered to
any person tirfao will difcove- and fecurc the thief, and
FORTY DOLLARS for only bringing the above menti
; oned notes and pipers at >«!n. 119, corner of Front and
Ity Mulberry ftrests. '' II-
A Manufactory FOR SALE.
iee A Vslusbie SOAP and CANDLE Manufiflory, (V.uste
of | in a convenient part of the city ; the works almost new,
: on an entirely original conftiufkion, and built of ;nt
• materials, aud m*v be set to vvork immediately. P-r nns
j who wifti to purchase, are requf fted so appty at No 2731
ie £ , South Srcond » tr l t
VVafhington Canal Lottery,
NO. I.
Uth "\T THf-REAS the State of Maryland has auth&nfed
W the underwritten, to raise twenty-fii thoofar,<l,
I two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose ot cuttmg
uth a Canal through the City of Walhington, fro« th so
! tomac to the Eastern Branch Hari.our.
The following is the SCHEME of No. J.
Vii -I Prize of to,ooo dollars, io,ooo
I ditto 10,000 10,000
jlaft drawn? i?,°oo
Tickets, each J
6 ditto 1,000 ®' co °
10 ditto 400 4''°°
»o ditto 100 I,coa
that 55 ditto S° /'"le
t®o 57J0 ditto n
To be raised for the Caisal, 16,15°
hor _
:t — 5850 Priz»s, *75.°°°
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
• ■
17500 Tickets, atTen Dollars, - 175)°°°
tT The CommiiSoiters have '-iken the Securities re
injircd by the aforefaid aft for the picftual pa>-raent 01
the prizes. . .
The drawing as this Lottery will commence, w:t -e
delay, at soon as tl» Tickets are fold, of which_ umdy
notice will "be given. , .
Such prizet as are not demanded in fix months a t
drawing is finiihed, fha\l be confider-d as *
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated aqcoruDg'J-.
p pr (S, S ned) NOTLEY YOUNG,
ter " DANIEL CARROLL, e/D*
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORSE WALKER,
\VM. M. DUNCANSON,
Iffl* THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
a U City of WaOiipgioß, Feb. n.
PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO,
rcond —Is O. II 9~ ~
CHESNHT-STREET.
tts [Price Fight Dollars per Aciiua.}