t I % ( *•" f
#a?ette States, & Philadelphia Daily Advert
VouUt i*II.I MONDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER n, 1796, [Volume X,
— 1 —-— 1 — " , _ . _ 1 J_..J t — .~o_ k., t ;» • „
+s —•
For Freight or Charter
%'To Europe or the W. India >
Th* new Brig FAIR AMERICAN,
Richard Calley, Master ; burthen 145 tons; has
good accommodations, and is now ready to receive a
cargo:—apply to the Captain on board, firlt wharf
•bove the Still-House, Ssuthwark, or to
Isaac Harvey, jurt.
Who hai now for sale, at his .store, No. J, South
Water-street,
A quantity of C«yrnn> »»<t Xrinit'.ad Cotton
SpamrnSoafXeather
And a parcci of Carolina Rice, in whole and half
tierces. litb mo. nth. djw
4 BARTER"!
For Sale, a good strong built ship, bur
then I3s«barrels, nearly new, well found
can be put to sea at a small expence.
? will be received in English or
India goods, or if more agreeable to the purchaser, 3,
6, and 9 months eredit would be given o* approved
note*, for further particulars enquire at No. 8, South
Water-street, or No. a9*Jorth Third-street.
November it. 7*
For Madeira,
l&siislsv A"? Concord,
Capt. John Thomson. For freight
SfciSJUslSshSJor passage apply on board, or to
Peteif Blight;
Who has for sale, a quantity of
Brandy, in pipes
Whiting and Copperas, in hoglheada
Old Hock, in cases
Dutch Cream-Cheese, in bones
Window Glaft
Empty Gin-Cafe* ' — - — -
OlafrVV are, ~nr"hujMi
Painters' Colours, ground in oil
Sweet Oil, in cafet of a dozen bottles each
HazTenuts, in sacks.
November 11. dim
Wanted to Charter,
\ jSgSI A f a ft-f ailin Z r # 7 '
c will carry 5 or Aoo barrels j to
2 •acJSjlFfe?- load immediately for the Weft-Indies-
Apply to
Peter Blight.
November 10, di
FOR LONDON,
caplta ' CERES,
ftil loon:—For freight or passage
apply to DAVY, ROBERTS & Co. or
John Vaughan,
September iq. Front-street ■
For Sale.
The Ship CHARLOTTE,
E A flout vcffel, about 150 tons bur
fw at a small expence.
Apply to
"Jefeph Anthony and Co.
Not. 8. dx.
FOR SALE, fs
7 HE SHIP MARY,
SAMUEL PARKER, Masses,
>«'< : S , ifc*~£M4s3fe'rwo hundred tons Wthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MARY n not fold inafew dav», ihe will take
freight for Hamburg. Apply a, above.
October 31. j
Just arrived, and will this day be lan
ded from on board the brig FAVORITE at Chefnut F
street wharf.
25 Tens bejl Russia Clean HEMP,
$6 Tons old S»b!e flat I RON,
»oo Coils bed Russia CORDAGE, aborted files, R
400 Pieces brown Russia SHEETINGS, r
»CO Bolts Ruflia DUCK,
340 Pircca Ravens do. P
' 10 Half-down feather beds, sad C
4. few Jiecesafforted DIAPER. C
FOR SALE Br X
Joseph Anthony and Co. \
The above mentioned BRIG
will fail in a few days, and t.k- freight on Bi
™ d " ate ,or Boflon or Salem, for S
° r 'PP'y on boird or « above
• v - - - . - d
For Charter,
The Ship JOHN BULKELT,
W!&@» a AYR f S STOCKtkV, Mailer. be
lS®we?i«,r ■ /* cf nt ' lve- cak and cedar built ed
SwiliaE ply to * 3000 blrrelß bUrthca •—Ap- Jo
Jefe fcf Robert Wain. %
, v r.u
or London,
William Penn, A '<
J ofuh ' "Will fail with *11 *
"^~ C0 * ven,e M speed. For freight orpaflare
»ppiy to the Captain on board, or to
Jeffe and Robert Wain. ~~
y<!Veni v -r 10, jyjj. d
For Liverpool, E "
The Ship DOMINJCK TERRY, _i
J ACOB Dihart, Master.
J* Has a pir[ of her cargo engaged*—
££■ "Per freightor passage apply to the inaf
- ter on board, at the whar. of the f„b
fcribers, or,
J e (fc Robert Wain.
Nnr - 7. d
For Lisbon,
TheDanifh barque BsNEvrNTUiu,
. Samuel Stub, Mafler, . C
A go<>ti ve " el of abo,)t two hundred cfr
i 01 1» burthen. For freight or passage
apply to r 5 ngn;
ter For Sale by Public Auction,
On Saturday Evening next, the 19th
in ft. at 7 o'clock, if not previously
-AN, sya&Ldifpofed of at private sale,
■ has -Brigantine Fame,
.vharf Laying at Mr. Samuel Bower's wharf, and now
ready for sea; a strong and well built vessel, and calcu
lated either for the European or Weft-India as
she will carry nearly 2000 barr«ls—She has been just
>outh hove down, and may be sent to sea at a small expence.
For further particulars, apply to Capt. Kuox on b<)ard,
to Samuel Smith, Skip Brisker, or
JOHN CONNELLY, Auflioneer.
I half November 17. ■ 3td
iw ' ' »
— jGjrV or Sligo and Killibegs,
tMp-fwA The American Ship Nancy,
■ Ul j Cuthbert Riggs, master.
OBU Will fail with all convenient speed. For
flTor frei S ht or P afli ß e "PP'y to
r,l William Bell;
oved Who has fnr sale,
iouth 4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well aflbrted
g Bale* Irish Flannels, and * boxes Linens
2; Pipes Brandy 1
Madeira Wine ; Indigo. Russia Matts,
Alfb,
A few barrel? Prime miSH BEEF, PORK,
oatmeal; &c.
:igh.t November 11, 1796, mwftf
; For Sale, or Charter^
The Ship DIANA,
Samuel Pile, Master, 1
Burthen 205 47-95 reDS tegifter, built in
Philadelphia in the year 1791, of live oak
and red cedar, and was Oieathed 13 months ago, (he
h*a jllftfead * pom pleat out-fit, and may be lent to sea
at a rery trifling expuice.
For terms apply to
Philip Nicklin Sjf Co.
IVho haw for sale cn board said xejfcl,
37 calks of fine yellow paint.
9 boxes and 12 bundles of writing states.
I box ink stands and note presses.
14 bales of fail cauvafs.
And on hand,
I. t0 Imperial ")
4les ' Hyson, and, £ TEAS.
Souchong J
• 40,000 pieces Nankeens of the firft quality.
19 tubs Quicksilver.
a chests Bandanno handkerchiefs.
A few chests Manchester goods well afforttd iff Cor
duroys, thicksets, Ginghams, Muflinets, Dimities, &c.
3 boxes black sewing silk.
S e iiJo crates Qjjcens ware wellafforted.
■ or ro tons Iheet lead.
Nails assorted, flat andfharp points.
London Particular, ") .. •
— London Market, / Madeira U inem p,p r
New-York Market, ) and lmgfiieaus. f
J7 40 pipes and 10 Tefterifie wine.
mr . S tierces Snake Root.
*4afc»c»iiy. ■ £-—_
May J. tth&ftf. j
SALTPETRE.
A
~~ A large quantity of Doubk-Refined Salt Pstre for
•sale at No. 25, SouA Third-street. S
November 5.
:, 10 hogsheads 6t» Croix Rum,
'to 5 P'P eß vinegar,
For Sale, by
ike Ezekiel Hail)
No. to, Penn Street.
Nov. 7.
11- This Day will be Landed, j,
nut Ffora on board the brig Difpatcb, Captain P. Brum, r<
from Malaga, at Morris's wharf, just above the
Drawbridge,
FRESH FRUITS, viz.
Raifir.s, in k#gs, boxes and balkets
Figs in kegs
Prunes in boxes
Grapes in jars r
Olives in ditto
X.ti»oaslirctrFfrs — a? o'
Anchovies in kegs
Almonds, foft fuelled, in sacks ' v
Also,
on Brandy in butts
for Sweet Mountain Wifie in quarter-calks—&c tl:
>vt For Salt bv
Peter Kuhn. "
November 17. at
——— ■ ■ ■ lit
THE Partnerihip of JONATHAN HARVEY & Co
being this day Dissolved hy mutual consent, those in debt-' J„
lit ed to said firm arc requested to make speedy payment to
p- Jonathan Harvey, who is authorized to receive the fame
ar.d those who have any demands will pkafe to brine in'
their accounts to him for settlement. q
— M
The Bufmefs will be Continued Cf
By Jonathan Harvey, Lc
AT HIS STORE NO. 106, S. FRONT-STREET • M;
.[ Where he has For Sale, ' -p<
A general assortment of Dry Goods. K"
November 14, 1796. j VV
" • y Co
An elegant Bay Horse for sale, Mi
Enquire at George Green's Stables, in Pine-ftfeet, a ,
between Fourth and Fifth-ftreets. A '
Nov ■ lß - ;i*w .
In the Press, ,
And will be publtfhed in a few days by MATHEW
CAREY, at No. ng, Market-street,
An ADDRESS
To the Eleflors of the President of the C
United States, ~
First puMifted in the Gazette of the United States in
4 series of papers under the signature of
"A FEDERALIST?"
Containing some {Injures oa Mr. Adams's De- To
vtr' 0! « Amcncan Constitutions, and on the
Essays of PHOCioN, since published without that
ftgnature, in a pamphlet entitled '• The pretention, „f I
i '"?" 15 J effer) .°" to the Presidency examined, and was
tee charges against John refuted." cnnl
Nov. tt. .. .
Hi tion
■—
FOR SALE,
19th A few hogfreads of choice Nc^.England RUM, J
jufly A Dumber of barrels of BEEF, and POTS.K,
And a few kegs of LARD, of a superior quality, '
Enquire at No. 71, north Water-street.
now November 8, 1796. dtf
ilcu- 1 " '
as For Sale. ' 1
j J c&fm coatfe hats 1
:nc J" , Cc *-' /•* ~-r ins and fteets (
k4rd ' Si> , vjl &*, 'patent unt-cottfln* 1
Sheet and barr lead ;
T * Ertglifa- fhoee and boots in cases
d Tin plates
Gold watches 1
1 Taunton ale in calks. *
Apply to v
' Stmn Walker,
p or lit, Fourth Street. b
Nov. 8. di4t. ,
OLD J
London Particular Madeira Wine, i,
In pipes, hogsheads and quarter-casks, t
' Landing this day at Chefnut-ftreet Wharf, and P
for fa! e by ' jj
Joseph Antbsny & Co. c
Nov. 1. d u
... Best Boftoti & Nova-Scotia Mackarcl, h
Excellent Halifax Salmon in bb!». tl
47 bbls. prime Coffee, v
Bed Boston Beef, 0
1 Codfifh in hd». g
t ' n Spermaceti Candles, t|
°»* Spermaceti, anij 7 Off °
Northern J OIL. o
'C" MV-'i 'W 1 dipt, tallow candles -of s fuferiar | a
quality. I A
A f*w boxes excellent brown soap,
6 Bales of Corks.
40 Pipei excellent Liibnn Wine. n
A few lacks of Feathers.
A few bales India Muslin*.
FOR SALE BT g
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co. .h
CMlnber jr. d B
The Cargo of the Polacre Independent, c.
CAPTAIN CATHCAR.T, from .llicant and Lif- a
boit, landing at the fubfciibers wharf—• tl
j8 Pipes of Brandy n
; or . 18 Biles of Spanish wool tl
& c> 3 do, of Annifeed —
7000 Bushels of belt Litbon Salt P :
80 Boxes of Lemons 01
Per We by WILLINGS 3: FRANCIS. c<
ALSO, d<
Seventy Hogfneads of prime JAMAICA SUGARS, cl
,2S received by the (hip Dominick Terry, Capt. DeHart,
Promilvir.glfo'n. b(
Seat. r -j. <j B
iriih Linens, 6cc. ol
!— Imported per ihz ships Glfffgent, from DnWri, Liber- *
tj'y f rcrn Corky arc' h'iq Mentor, from fiejfaj} 9 ra
4-4 and 7-8 Wide IRISH LIN ENS, bl
In whole and half boxes,
for Atforted from nd. to 4s. fterling—Atfo 5-fc wide
Sheetings, and low priced yarn and woriied Hoi*. re
On Hand, °*
7-g Wi<Je Lawns.
Diapers and TfcMe-Cloths h<
A few boxes Tickens and Checks A
A ft*r bales Flannels pi
Cork aird Bclfaft Sail Cloth, x and 6
a S Boxes } f 6 ky 3, * c
to Ditto > Window Gloss, < 7 by he
_ J Di «° J C 8 by 19. T
The above mentioned Goods arc all entitled to the fei
drawback, and will be disposed of by the packare en n i
n, reafoaable terms. "
h« James, Clibborn & English, g c
-p *?"' No. 6, K, Front-street. i_.
loth mo. rpth. DC
The Elephant ~ "
TISRETURN£D FROM BALTIMORE.
HE public are refpeftfully informed, that
this animal is to be seen every day, from 8 m .
o clock in the morning till fun down, in Market- to
street. No. 106, south fiik, between Third and
Fourth-/lreets. ' 0
Admittance a quarter of a dollar, that every ci- TJ,
tizen may fee him. '
(d* At the request of many persons it will be L.
exhibited on evenings from five to eight o'clock, „•
at half a dollar each—The room will be well
lighted. v>o
o. Novembtr *j, j ® ai
•o Im f° rted m tbe lat ' from Uurip end ihc "t
r _ ttejl* Indies,
n Holland Gin, in pipes I'^!
Choice St. Croix Sugar and Rum r n _
Martinique Mobil™, iri hogsheads 'c
Choice old Liibon Wine, in pipss and quarter-calks
London I articular & London Market Madeira Wine
i\it 1 "r P 'P SS ' halt-pipes and quarter-calks ' ten
; Malmsey Madeira Win«, in pipes and quarter-calks in &
J eneri/le Wine, in pipes p a fl
' Wind & r^™' {h ?l' rni '>S and Ravens Du»k, in cases pag
d0 w.. G,a6 » 8 b >' I0 ' in boices in.
- '" s ar Straw Knives, in ca/ks
Mill baws and Crots-cut Saws, in boxes
Also, en band, 1 '
' i Jesuits Bark , Affafc*- fu "
rT 4 Tapioca ; and a few bales of Cofiaes, of '
Bafhs, Gurrahs, Bandanna and Muslin Hamlkerl { Y 8
r Rrni,* %< eomplete assortment of j- 4 and 6-4 Thi
Boulting Cloths.
For Sale by f0 ,, (
Oflober - Pragers & Co. i,
diwm&tham the
For the Gazette of the United States. " «
" h
rr T-t No. VII. ««th
To th, Elttlori of the ?refi<knt of the United State,. " *
Fellow. Chiz.ru, f S
IT fias been remarked that Mr. Adam,', book q„n'
' 11 truf tb " preface of ,h c fi rtt vo . , Q ),
lume if dated irt January *787, hut it is a Ja& tha'
thethii'd voluifie was published after he was jpaflef
' fed of the federal conftiturion, whffch is annexed to
tv the constitution ; and that it contains, as wc have
fhewt), some of the passages which are nv>ft op
pof«d to that instrument in principle. The (ftf
courfcs vpon Dav'tla too, are the mod forcible cor
roborations of this oppofiticn, and upon theftrong
presumption, thac they are the work j»f Mr. A
dims they amount to an aS'i-ot unfriendl'tneft to the
tffential and cardinal principle of all our constitu
tions, both of the dates and of the onion. They
tend at this time to invite tli* intetpafuion of the
foreign monarchies in our affairs, however different
were certainly the views, with which they were
written.
It has been *lfo observed that Mr. Adams's
book was written before his two elections, and yet
; that the people had confided in him as vice-presi
dent. It is however true that the third volume,
being publifhc-d in London in 1788) could not be ftjr fa!e
-j in the America* Book-stores before the measures were
taken for the firft eledlio*. But what is much more im»
n( j portaat and is absolutely true, the books were not read*
r much less Studied ia America, for books intended to
display great historical events and relating to the prin
ciples of government are »»t to be perused like a sum*
mer'stale—an amusing fible for an August day. By
the writer of t-hel'e papers the fecund and third Volumes
, had never been seen, except so far as their ontfides ia
the library of fon»e other person.« And tho' the firft
volume had been a dlually pur-chafed, from frntiments
of refpedt to Mr. Adams's character and flat ran, it is a
truth, that other vacations and other books had occa
sioned it never to be either Studied or perused. Its con
tents and principles ware Hot know* 'till within a year
or two last past, when other circumstances of the nature
of the book, rendered Mr. Adams's work anohje<st of
or attentioa io many. Phocion fays, he has Seen much of
America and its inhabitants, and thai he has never
heard a wifli for any other form of government than a
Republic. The specimens he has given of re-state
ments even of the Written opinions and delites of oth
ers cannot inspire the Electors with confidence in his ac
curacy, in regard to what may have been orally deliv
ered before him. He too, Rke Mr. Adaias, may con
sider a limited monarchy as properly a republic,.and
he may deem a wife for a constitution like that «f G.
Britain, as only a desire of having another " form" of
— a republic, which Mr. Adams unequivocally afll-rts the
it, conkitutksn of England in truth to be. It rs our on
if. ihaken opinion, that the establishment of the Bank of
the United States was very much to -be-defired—that
neither this nor any ether civilized nation can avoid
the use of the excise mode of revenue, sooner or later
—that the funding of public debts which cannot he
paid off when due, is as much a matter of fimphy'B/Wct,
of prudence and of natural conrle, aa the eivmg of a
common bond and securing it by mortgage for a j riva;«
debt—that the chcck given to Mr. Genet by the Lxe-
S, eutire was perfefllv justifiable and necessary, and in
rt, fh'rt that many ails for which this government fas*
been blaiqed were fabjefls of merited approbatioc.
B»t with these Sentiments it is a folenwi truth that we
— have fekferious anxieties at the txijlence and gra<ujtb
of the anti-constitutional do<3rine of hereditary power
',ur bn-ve nilually irrcmrd. We have fceen ex
r- ? !icit in regard to thisfubjeft on account of the decla
ration of Pbocxm, that he has heard no wifbes for anv
> but "publican government—We knciv it to exist, and
we wiih it were only i* common minds, and in perfo*r
!e r '^^ c infiuenct. It is the true cause of the present
refpc<£tfui addreft to tkc Understandings, and patriotifra
Of the E'eftors. r
It is particularly nrceffary to remark, that there
have bee* Jiveml partial and general editions of Mr.
Adams's work. Ths firft voiume was published ifl
Philadelphia by Hall and Sellers, and the whole 3
volumes were printed in London. Other edition®
have been printed, it,is believed in the Eafleri) Slates,
The size of the paper, types and paging have dif
ie f,red more or fcfs. The Preface in the Philadelv
,n phia Duodecimo occupies foventetn pages, but in
the (London edition it covers twenty-fix pages.—
■ t Sometimes it appears, that the preface is meant to
be referred to by writers in the Gaseues, when how
— ever they express themselves so, that thereader sup.'
poses it is the main body of the work. No volume
« numbered on the back, as the firft, beciufe, when
£ the hrit volume was published in Europe and in A
raerrca, it is manifeft that the author delivered it
*? the world as an entire work, without any intima
tion of pubhfhing a second and third volume. The
main body of the work, in this firft valume,
tamed in a little more than 389 pages in the Phi.
ladelphia copy, and occupies 392 pages in the Lon
don edition. These remarks upon the different edi
jj tuns wA pacing: and upon the preface and the main
wort are recommended to particular attention, be
cause they will obviate some diffatisfaftion which
. has been excited by the idea of designed raifquo
' tat 10ns. Iwo examples will be given. Time doe»
not adsait of stating more. A writer from Hen
rico, in Virginia, animadverts with feeling, Hpon
some opponent of Mr. Adams, for quoting a pas.
, [ 3g '* ai fro " 1 j hc Bth P»ge of his work, and fays,
he has read that page, and can find no fueh sen
tence in it, as wai given by the writer he is oppof.
ing. Now it is found, on examination, that th«
passage referred to is substantially, in the feventl,
, page of Hall and Seller,'s Philadelphia edition, and
in the ninth page of the London edition, It so
not 1* the eighth page of either of those editions, so
that the quoter must have had another copy. But
further, it is in and not in the mainlodv
of the work. The passage is materila, and is fair
jy given to the world as Mr. Adam, wrote it w
. T 2 en I ,leman mentioned " monarchy" i B the
slofeof the preceding paragraph, and then gave the
oilowtng words, except the word monarchy, which
..nowputinto a parenthesis, and not in Italics, for
the lake of ft net accuracy.——
„ " "fyf"" "> tieft governments (monarchv)
u not iecaufe they are fupportedly no ile, and a fa.
!, °f rank s ; Sovemmenu, ,{ m
the mast democratic!, are supported hy a fubordi
natnti of office:, and ranks too."
So, again, in the 2id page of the London fire
/«r, and in .he I Jth of the preface of Hall and
Sellers s editron, it is said, that a limitud monarchy
■ft. T kr f ro P net y» be called <s republic.
v , °^" ration ' and be fufficisnt
to explain thu necessary pout. APhiladelphia, November '21.
jVJasrikd, on Thursday evening last, 6y the Right
s?.ev. Bilhop White, Th»mas Ha-wthorn, Esq. to Mils
rvlary Meredith, eldtit daughter of Jonathan Mere
dith,' Esq. *
By the Rev. William Ma! (hail, Mr. Charles Whyti
to Mil's A aroaret M'Cuiloch, daughter of Mr. John
'M'Cuiloch, jirinter, of tMs city.
3y the Rev Mr.Helmuth, Mr. Jacob Cress to Miss
Susan Hxyiv*'ck, both, of Chefnut Hill
V We have received No XXV of PHOCION, and 1
"ISo ViU of The FEDERALIST; but the great prefftirc
■of foreign intelligence will occalion a few days delay of
their publication. i
For The FEDERALIST, No,ViI, fee run page j
We fxi-jc been favored with a Halifax paper of 080- i
ber 29, from which tbcfoUowtng is eittrakef
Haufax, Oft. lier 27. 1
"tzlraft of a letter from St John's, A e'lvfoundland j 1
dated Sept. 21. '■
" Since for\trardmg our letter ef the 17th ult. we <
4'ive had no opportunity.ol writing to you,-being fincev <
the id instant in a flat* of blockade. Rear Admiral '
having efeaped the irigilaixx of Admiral Mann <
and got out of Cadiz, made his appearance about three '
leagues to the Southward o us, ok the night ofithe ift <
inlt. and'paraded in view of our harbour on the id, with '
one 80 gun. (hip, 6of 74, one of 40, and a corvette. 1
Ha ftiod on to the north about three leagues, and lay «
, to >t that diftanee, eonttantly repeating fignais and let- «
•ting off (ky-rockets. We pnrehended that in the 1
jnoining they meant to mate a defcentupon us in that t
diredlion ; vhieh however, they din not, but on the f
3d stood on again to the Couth in a-direcl line of battle, 1
■till they approached near L ape Spear/ when they bore
down in an irregular line direct for the Narrows. At
rthistime we imagined iheir intention \ras to force into
the harbour; Meanwhile all the batteries were extreme- r
ly well manned, and the forges at york heating balls.
Martial law, was also proclaimed, and all-the inhabit
ants, without diftindlion, were under arms, and at their
refpe<3ive posts, determined to make the mod vigorous J
defence. Two frigate, a (loop of war, and the Rom- 11
ney vjf 50 gun;, were Rationed at the opening of the
with springs on their cables. In this fitua- f
tion our arrangements stood, expelling every moment j;
the firing to commence. When the enemy arrived (
•within gun shot of the batteries, and in full view of our t
force,'having reconnoitred our strength andpofition,
the admiral thought proper to sheer off, and lland to a
the southward, and his whole fleet following his exam- I
yle. r l hat night they lay to in Petty Harbour Bay, jo
•where we were alio jpprehenfive of their intention to n
land some troops ; bat not thinking that meaftire advise- a
able, they fleered to the southward, and came tolnchor
in the Bay of Bull's. That devoted settlement they
have reduced to allies. By this deftruiflion the Haufe .
of Gugier and Tage hare loft feme thousands. On the 11
7th the enemy weighed anchor, and proceeded to the t
Touth east, in view of the different harbours ; and ftiort
ly after got out of fight. The 40 gun frigate appear- t
ed on the .9th, off Trepaffey, into which place Ihe ch»- Q
ied fame bankers, after which Die stood on to the weft
•ward.. On the 14th and 15th, the French fleet again
appeared in Placentia Bay, fterring N. W. by VV. 3
for Cape Chapeau Rouge, and this is thy last direit t
account we have of them Their manoeuvres have ap- a
peared unaccountable, and we think indicate a want of t
harmony among them. They are supposed to have
gone to intercept the outward bound Quebec fleet, 1
which are under the convoy of the Pearl frigate.— '
They are known to be in want Of bread, and confe- n
quently must soon repair to some port in the States;—
This visit has so much deranged the trade of the isan , I
thai we fear it will be productive of very bad tonlequen- !
cesthisfall. The servants in the fomhern ports nave t
behaved very unruly, in plundering ftoret, and rnnning t
away with veffelsjnd boats; but as the fear of the e
aemy has subsided, matters are re-instated again, and *
the servants returning to their duty. The Shark isjuft *
arrived in the Njrrows. We are in hopes martial iaw 1
will foonceafe, and our attention Ue rettoreii to our 1111
finefs. v
The following Permit, given 10 a family to go on l,
fliore at the Bay of Bulb, proves the French ik-et at
Newfoundland to be Richery's from Cadiz.
LIBERTY. EQUALITY. . 1
NAVY of the FRENCH . IiPUBLIC. «
Squadron unde* the command or Rear Admiral t
RICHER Y. f
7be Ship Le Diiquefne, commanded by Attzen Allemand, ~
Captain of the Na-vy. \
After the req>ieft made to Citizen Richery, by the
wife of Richard Driikall, piifoner of war, and five
children of Bay of Built, it is permitted to the said '
wife and her family to disembark from the ffiip Le Du
quefne, to return to the laid Bay.— We invite all the
citizens who stall meet the said family, not to disturb
them in any manner, but on the contrary-, to give them
all the aififtance in their po<w«r.
On board the Ihip Le Bnquefne, the lift Fruc
tidor, the 4th year of the Republic of Prance'
Seen by me, Captain Commandant,
ALLEMAND.
Yesterday arrived here from St. John's, Newfound
land, the (hip John and Jane, Capt. Branftptj. This
left England with the Britannia store-ship, which
an ived here some time since She is laden with govern
ment prcvifioni. Having put into Newfoundland on
the 26th August, and the French fleet appearing ofl the
iftof September, Ihe.has been detained by the embar
go which was laid on all (hipping in that part. She left
St. John's en Thursday last, the 20th ir.ftant, under
&onv»y of his Majtfty's (hip Spencer, Captain Evans.
The account Capt. Brandon gives of the French fleet,
agrees with the intelligence contained in the preceding
letter. The (hips which were detached by Admiral
TUchery to tl»e Labradore coast on the 9th of Septem
ber, were the Cenfeur, Duqucfiic, and Fripon. By
capt, Fvans, in the brig Madona, whs had made his
eicape from Labradore, and arrived at St. John's three,
days before the John and Jane failed, intelligence was
received, that the French ihips had entered Temple-bay
and laid the wh«le settlement in ruins. Among the
(hipping destroyed, there was a fine merchant ihip,
called the Regulator, mounting ao guns. Oaptain E
varii left the Lebratiore coast the 10th inft. at which
time those (hips were Rill there. The chief part of the
fleet was in at St. Pierre's on the 34th ult. on which
day two fail of the line went out on a cruile. On the
-tteh, the Admiral gave to capt. Long, who command
ed a ship which was destroyed at the Bay of Bulls, and
who, with his wife had been made prisoners, a fchoon
cr ivtrich he had captured, and permitted him to take
with him 60 other prifcntrs, and go wh*re he pleased,
and the fame eveniag the remainder of the fleet left St. <
Pierre's, and it was supposed they were all to meet at
'o:ne other place of rendezvous- The prifcaers wh»
have been landed from the fleet, report thatabout 14,00
Hoops were said to be on board the different (hips.
Those which they saw were a (habby looking pack.
Captain Branfton hat favored us with the following
lift of the French fleet.
Jupiter, Ad. Richery 74 La Vifloire 84
Cenfeur, a Commodore 84 Duquefne 74
Bcrwick 74 Ambuscade 36
Birras ' 74 Felicite 3$
Rcvobtionaire 74 Friponne 36 u
Latest Foreign Intelligence.
By the (hip Fara'e, captain Harris, -arrived at New-
York, m 14 days from London, we hare recived
London papers from -the Bth to nth Otft. indaftve.
Thtfollowing intelligence is extradied from thtra.
. LONDPN, October 8.
The follcrwmg is the Order of Ceuucil, countermand
ing the Order lately made for the purpose of permitting
| the exportation of goods £0 countries conquerered by
Fanct:—
'' At the Court at St. James's, the s?h day of Oc
tober, 1796, prefeat,-the King's most excellent'ma
jelly in touncil.
'■ It is this day ordered by hismajefty, byand with
the advice of his Privy Council, that an made
at this Board, on the third day of Jaft»
granting license, notwithstanding certain a&s paJTijd in
, the thirty-third and thirty-fouwh years'of his wiajefty's
reign, and therein mentioned, to pay, fend, fiipply,
• or 1 eliver, orcaufetohe paid, feut, fuppliedor deliv
.v, ered, either by payment or remittance of any bill of" ex
change, note, draft, obligation, or«rder for money,
or in any other manner whatsoever, an" money, to or
for the use of any perfeu or persons relidmg or beiag in
any part or place of the United Provinces, the Aultrian
Netherlands, «r ataly, »r in any town or place in Ger
many, and to divers other afls in the said order parti
cularly mentioned ; and the lit eace thereby given and
every part thereof, be revokerkand discharged; and the
said order and the licence thereby given, snd every part
thereof are hereby revoked and discharged.—And all
persons are to take notice iof his majesty's pleasure,
hereby mid govern thetnfelves accordingly.
W. FAWKINER."
LONDON, OApber 10.
Buflntfs in the House of Ctmmons this Day. ,
The House to resolve itfelf into a Committee to
h consider of a Supply.-' i
Late yesterday evening we teseived by express, I
the Patis gazettes to the 7th inll. inclusive, which -
is an in (lance of extraordinary dispatch '
In the variety of gazettes whiclt have reached us '
from the 3d to the 7th inltant, thete U not one of- f
fecial letter from the Executive Diredlery refpefling j
the armies of the Rhine and Moselle, and of the a
Sambre and Meufe, which we may fairly consider 0
as a most positive proof that the affair* of the 1
Ft'ench republic continue to be marked by a series
of disasters. This opinion is llrengthencd by tl|e
non-official advicet infertfl in these papers, whicS j,
admit that the French are every where retreating. 0
iTfre news from Paris, of the 3d states, that the 0
Atiflrians were preparing to attack the republicans b
'in their position behind the Sieg, and inth»ir en- ''
trenrhed camp before Dufleldorff. P
A letter from Bruxellet of the Ift inft. ftatet, that j
the left wing of the army of the Sambre and Meufe 0
occupied the lines ef the Sieg, which cover Duffel- n
dorff ; that the left wing was in the Hundiiuck ; *
and the centre between Cologne and Coblentz ; but ■'
that it was feared these petitions were not very fafe, 8
and that the Auhduke would attack the French on
the left banks of the Rhine. a
By letter of the 3d, from the fame place, we I
learn, that the French army under general Boiir
nonviilc, was again preparing to recrofs the Rhine, g
but his head-quarters were ltill at Cologne. ■ The t .
Archdake has a formidable encampment near the t
Sieg, and also a camp of observation near Neuwied, v
to keep the French in check in that quarter. On
the 27th and «Bth of September, it appears there y
was fighting on the right banks of the
Rhine, opposite Cologne, but the result ie not fta- f
ted. V
The Auftrians are still blockading Kehl, with a
view of intercepting all communication between the
left banks of the Rhine and Moreau's army.
From the army of the Rhine and Moselle there '
is no official intelligence, except Morean's general '
orders, dated Lutmarftiaufen, the 20th of Septem- '
ber, in which he endeavours to toufe the drooping '
spirits of his army. The place from which these 1
orders are dated being situated in Suabia, at a small j
distance from the frontiers of Bavaria, it would ap
pear thm he is forming his retreat to the Upper !
Rhine in a manner which requite*, more firmnefs
than in general belongs to-the national of '
the French, to be executed with success rear . '
being conflaritly hariaffed by generals Latour and ]
Hotze, and his front menaced by field-marfkal Pe- j
trafch. Private accounts refpedting this army state,
that the Auftrians entered Donawcrth on tha igth '
ult. and they describe Moreau's situation as becom- •
ing daily more critical.
We cannot but consider it an happy omen for '
the state of affairs in Italy, that gen. Buonaparte '
observes a profound filenceon hit operations apsinft ■
" the (battered remains of marftial Wurmfcr's ar- '
my, (hut up in Mantua 1" as he called the field-mar- '
(hal's corps in his last letters to the diredlory. The \
Paris papers do not contain the least infotmation
concerning the republican army in Italy.
From the above extracts it will be seen, how ex- \
tremely difficult it is to obtain a clear knowledge of
the a&ual situation as affairs on the Rhine, until
the Hamburgh mailt arrive. All that we can learn '
is, that the French are every where obliged to re- '
treat. A report is mentioned'in I'Eclair of the 6th )
111 ft. that Bournonville had obtained some advanta- '
ges over the Auftrians, but as nothing more is men
tioned in the paper of the 7tf>, they are not likely !
to have been of any importance. ' 1
There is anather official note from the dire&ory \
in most of the gaeettes of the sth5 th isftant, refpedting
the passport demanded by our ministry. We are '
glad to observe, that its tone is changed, and that 1
the note is couched in more decent language than '
the Ult of its publications. It declares, w That if '
the Englilh miniltry yields to the wishes of the En J
glilh nation, whose interests and happiness are con- '
sided to its care, peace will no longer meet with '
delays nor inlerruptions.
HOUSE OF COMMONS.—Saturday, October 8 I t
WStopfordirvformed the House, that his Majef! t
ty had been wa'ted upon to lenow when hi, Majesty r
woild be pleased to receive the address ; and rhat hi! t
gracloufl J P' eafcd to fignify that he w # uld I
receive the fame on that day. i
A petition was presented from General M'Leod t|
complaining of a» undue return for the borou K h of : n
Milburne Port.—Ordered to be taken into coulfdera- j t"
tion on the roth December. "uaera- ti
Another petition was presented, cerrmlilr,;.,, r
n ß due return for the bwougk of Guildford, whilhji
J
th at the very moment when It might be v.
a person of addrels and wifdoin. S«un«d by
i ; General Marceau was wounded on il,. , . „
us September :he died two days after. 9 of
of He was in his twenty-seventh year. Sern-,1 u ,
which he had gained in La Vendee, and two ftjlft
i-. campaign, on the bank, of the Rhine had ofeta. Jdk
a diltmguifhed. rank among# , U r molt eminent C S™
manders in the present war. When he wasabout t °T
j. removed to the left bank of the Rhine, he recuefi H
t0 be left at Altenkirchen, with the Pr«ffi ln coit i
lc The followingvday the Auftrians took poßVfT,o n of Al'
tenkirchen. As soon as General Haddick was ins,
m ed of this circumstance, he font a fafeguard to Mar,
f. and General Kray himfelf came to fee hhn v ""'
warrior wept at the fight. He had beet o PP „fc d °f
5- Marceau for the two last years. The si, it Sur J on of
:o Prince Charles attended him with the nod inceflW
i, care; but he died at 6 o'clock in the corning B f * he
The body of General Marceau was buried in the
lt trencned camp of Coblentz, aajjd the -mp! '"j
fire of both armies. n : 3I X,
[S Jourdan is at Paris. He is going to take the
mand of the army of the North in the room of
L 9 Boumonvilte, who is now at the head of th- , Pm „ c
i- the Sambre and Meufe. This kind of ret rait ii »e
----.. justly give* to a genera! of his distinguished merit " !
e We are still without any official news from our a
roies. The foreign papers are full of the disasters thev
•s have experienced, exaggerated as ulual. They how
~ ever agree, that Moreau, after receiving a check it t/u
,t nicli, is retreating through Franconia.
We learn from L'Orient, that two ships of war
arnvfd in that port, called Fougueux and VatienT
y On' being offered Mandat. in payment, they revoked'
. The Minister of Sweden at Constantinople h is 1"
enounced to the Grand Vizier, that a treaty «f alliance
f is concluded between the Courts of Peterfburi»h in A
, Stockholm. °
k v \ is J co r nfirfeml y afTerted, that general Moreau, at
the head of 30,000 men has attempted to cross Fra-*>-
i ma, for the pu-pofe of effeeling his retreat, and ioirT
1 ing the army of the Sambre and the Meufe.
j We hear from BrufTels, by accounts dated the ift of
- Oflober, that on the a 2 d of September, the Auftrians
. having advanced to the Sieg, several hot aflions took
: place between the advanced posts. ft seems that thev
t terminated in our favor, as 10. Atiftrian pr.fone-. hava
f been sent to Cologne. Our left wing is MI behind the
2 t'" S i £ ,fe J b r elie , vid *# the enemyjntends
, by the Hundfrnck. The divlCon of General Ponret
. has been therefore sent to H.,t /ide. The divifioi, of
: General JJernadotte has the Rhine, and has
. taken a position near Andernjch. It is apprehended
that Prince Charles who has left the country adiacent
. to Coblentz, for the purpofeof going to Mayence, in
tends to pals the Rhine by the last mentioned route.
[ Peace between the French Republic and the l 3 "ope
■ is (till liable to many difficulties, because his HeU
nefais unwilling to declare, that his good faith has
1 been deceived in the briefs "which he has published
relative to the affairs of France. He fears left he
[ fhoiild by fnch a cooduft, compromise his iufallibi
. bility. The French government, however, infiflj
, on this measure, as prop.r to rellore peace between
t us, by appealing; the differences of religious opi
nion.
Should the Pope per (ift in his refufal, it is very
' probable be will receive a visit at Rome from Buon
aparte. All the Cardinals have been already affftn
bled and cenfulted. The agents of the French Re
public and the Popes plenipotentiaries have repair
ed to Florence, with a view of continuing their dif
cttflions more peaecably than at Rome, where the
~ -people aeg-vif-C-y much j «e -.vel! ai.n£ infer
ring to themediation of M* Azzara, the King o£
Spain's Ambassador.
The army of the Empress of Russia, confiding
of between 40 and 50,000 men, which was march
ing toaffift the Emperor, has I)eeii ordered back.
The Emperor is very much chagrined at this dis
appointment, but it is yetimpsfiible to ascertain the
cause of it.
Letters from London infmaate that the Queen
of Portugal has different projects, and that, to es
cape at the fame time from the Eaglifb yoke, and
the dangers with which ffte is threatened by France,
(he has it in idea to connect herfelf more intimate
ly with the Cabinet of Madrid. Some Englilh fri
gates hav« taken two Spanilh veffds richly laden ;
the Queen of Portugal erdeied these veflels to be
brought back to the port of Cadiz.
The King of Naples has prefumcd to use a threat
ening stile, for whieh he will pay dearly. He has
caused a declaration to be published, in which he
asserts, that if we shall enter into the territories of
the Pope, he will also enter them with his army.
Ofiabrr 6 ~ ~
The Jnfamnui CVdot dTlrrbais S-s terminated,
at Cayenne, his exeerable career. He has been r*r-
Tied off Ly a violent illness, which goneially btfallj
who do not feel the least indifpdfitio^'6o their
arrival in that climate, and against which no reme
dy has as yet been discovered. A few days before Sg
his death, that monster made another attempt to
possess himfelf of the authority of a Dictator at Cay
enne, and to stir up an infurreiSion among the Ne
groes ; but his projects having failed of fuccels, lie
was thrown into a dungeon. v '
Charles Germain one of this accomplices of Drau
et, made lately an attempt, at Vendome, to affaffi
natea municipal officer who vi&ted the prison. He
is put in irons for 20 days.
It is said that Bournonville has obtained a coufi
derable advantage over the enemy.
In yesterday's fitting the Council of Five Hun
dred refolvcd on the proposition of Camus, that *
new fund of 25 millions, metallic value, Jhal) be
placed under the disposal of the minister of the In
terior, to covr the arrears of the 41b yeas, and at
the firft quarter of the sth.
O&ober 7.
It is expected that a declaration of war will take
place between in and Sweden. We hear fro® Stock
holm, that Perchel, the French minister, and his
Secretary Marivaux, have been ordered to quit
Stockholm.
There is a great mortality the French
troops in Italy. The hefpitals of Milar, .
Lodi, Verona, &c, are full of lick. In the firft
city, there were 4000 (ick ; and 117 died oatht
23d of August within 11 hours
-4< Head Quarters at Lutmarfhawfeti, the 4th
Complementary Day, (Sept. 39.)
" The Gencial of the army of the Rhine and
Moselle expefls firmnefs frojn #11 the soldiers he com*
mand*; and hopes that the retrograde movements
which the temporary fucoeffes obtained by Piinee
Charles over the army* of the Sambre and Meufe,' t
havt tendered ceceffary, will by bo menus weakflfc
"llits energy and that gallantry which has illuf
tra'.ed in adion. on all occasions where it ha« been
ia contad with the enemy. The moment will soon
arrive when he will make them gather frefh laurela;
and he is convinced, that when he (hall give them
the Ggnal for battle, it will prove the signal for vic
tory." " (I cuillc dc Jour.)
Letters from Turin state, that in pursuance of
a secret atticle of the treaty of Peace with France
the Ports of Sardinia are {hut against the English ;
and that by another article his Sardinian Majsllyhas
bbimd himfelf to have on foot no more than 12,000
troops. (L'Eclair.)
GENOA, September 17.
Since the Serene Government has declared, that
all the Genoese Ports (hall be (hut against the En- 1
glifh, on account of their having frequently viola
ted tk« rights of neut rafit y, rtie* latter h,ive captu- 1
red several Genoese vefTels, and blocked up the 1
ports of the Republic. The utmost exertions are 1
making to put our coasts in a refpedable state of 1
defence, and it is to be hoped that the Alliance 1
between France and Spain, will soon (helter the Re- 1
public from the hostilities of the Englilh. 1
COLOGNE, Sejjtember 23,
The treops which were engaged in the siege of f
Ehrenbreitftein, havecroffed the Rhine at Neuwied. v
after having left a strong garrison on the ifland,which fa
is provided with formidable entrenchments. The f
tioops which were at Molheim, and in the envi- a
ronsof Deutz, have crossed the Rhine opposite the t
former place. The greater part of the effeAs, mi- ti
litary chest, &c. belonging to the army of the ii
Samfere and Meufe, have already been transported o
to the other fide of the Rhine. There is every rea t(
son to think that the retreat of the whole army to
the other fide of the Meufe is already determiued c:
on. The inhabitants of this city are not allowed 1
to cross the Rhine ; and this permission is alldwed ai
to the soldiery only. The city guard Rationed at qi
the gates, has received the fame order from the com at
mandant, to al!o.v none of the inhabitants to pafi. 'tc
through the gate leading to the Rhine. The French H
f army is in the utmost diftiefs imaginable, not hav- at
ing for several days had bread to eat. to
E
WETZLAR, September 19. th
The greatest anxiety ptevailed here about the
iffuc of the adion near Limburg, on the 16th, on
our learning that the French had received a rein
forcement of 15,000 men from the army of the th
North, and that after alevere engagement,/ley had to
succeeded in aft-ending an important height near he
Limberg. Our anxiety dill encreafed, on hearing by
that though the irsperialifts had, on the 16th, ta
ken from the French several important ports near
GiefTen, they were forced by them to recrofs the
Lahn, and that the Auftrians had loft 700 men in vei
that affair. At lengtlj, Itowfver, we learn, that Ve
'the archduke, after an extremely bloody conflid, fed
has proved vidorious over the French. By this the
vidory our neighbourhood is happily delivered from ans
all apprehenfians. Soon after the Auftrians had tad
defeated the French near Limburg, and advanced fini
beyond ehe Lahn, it was impossible for Jourdaa to ble
maint«r&-hi:uigl£ iny longer in
and the signal having been given, the centre of the not
French army, which was encamped in this vicinity, ed
as well as the head quarters, which were at Klofter in 1
Ahenberg, a mile diflant from out city, broke up Th
in the night of the 18th. Two horse batteries, the efc<
Austrian cavalry, and the battalion of Manfredini, or f
also broke tip immediately in pursuit of the French, 30
and yesterday morning we learned, that tfte French of
were greatly harraffed by the artillery or, their te- of 1
tfeat. g rm
Another warm engagement happened also on the froc
16th, near Weilbourg; in which general Haddick witl
beat the French, took 600 prisoners, and 12 pieces "
®f cannon. I
Tho lols which the French sustained near Lim- ness
amounts to 600& meu, in killed, fiyii
and prisoners, and 40 pieces of cannon. bifh
(I til
FRANCKFORT, Sept. 20. and
The French are now entirely driven from the abia
Lahn ; and the communication with Ehenbreitftein Peti
» ' was agairt opened on the I 7th. The adion near repi
Limberg was exceedingly bleody, and the Austrian* try 1
were obliged to storm the entrenchments with fixed cove
bayonets : the loss was very considerable on both difp
/ides. General Neu, who, with a part of the gar- men
11 son of Mentr, had joined the left wing, entered
Nassau, a;terthat action, and the head quarters of
archduke were at Anndfangeln, near Monta- T
b»*r, on the 18th. It is said, the archduke was othe
g'az«d by a (hot in the adion near Limburg. The in It
! re " ■ ale ,10w retreating towards the Sieg and "
the Lower Rhine, and are already in the vicinity of j field
, --lac.icnburg. Their retre.it is made with the great- I app?
eit prec'pitaiion. The imperial head quarters are !by «
« l L ' n( " Freylingen, a small distance from i porp
Hachenburg. Neuwi-.d is (till occupied by the the e
rench, and on the Hundfiuck, they iacreafe on tli
« rta! 'y- like,
marfl
rpi ~ v E ® EL » September 22. from
c •diviiion of troops which is on its march for marft
the army of the North, by the way of Duffeldorf, his di
amounts to 6,50 men. •< We are curious to learn, himfc
(fag. the Courier du Bas-Rhin) whether general wher,
Bournonvtlle will lead the army again forward, or AdiV
whether the retreat will be effeded across the Rhine, of th
"Z e a ,T> to „ conc ' ude frpm fcvtlal circumitan- i. to.
Mr /V i. T Ck a "" y °f 'he Sambre and of ot
Meufe (fays the fame paper) has 101 l nearjo.oo9 may 1
f A ,! et ir r fr °f M " !hfira ' of the 20th in (1 ant, I,™
16th tie f" a t'°f T Limbur S» 00 theet.
f rrc " ch P ark of artillery arrived at Deuli more
S:^,I■mmcd.atdypwfued1■mmcd.atdypwfued it, march to immec
Dt-licldorf. so-day we exp«o 3000 artillery, the pi
and 2000 cavalry, besides tbe artillery park •bm P
the main body ts defiling along the mountains, „„ t
j2 >' g eno>,gh t0 effed ,elrfat i& Th<
September 24. takes
WeWjuft received, as well from Cologae, as Morr ,'
.rough some other channels, very interesting de- S'labia
Sl »h !IV H XI l r C ,I,Uat ' on of ,be arm y the vioully
" 3!ld Weufc 1 tl »eie, for want of room, we 14th,
illu f- are obliged to defer til! eur nest publication, XV; ,
1 been (hall confine ourselves ar present in this {latement,
Ifoon that a very bloody adion, at the clofi of which
urcls j the French were driven from their pofitton, was
them fought at Altenkirchen, on the 20th instant. In
>r vie- this adion general Marcean wa? mortally wounded
r.) and made prisoner. On the 2 Hi, the.famous bridge
ce of head, before Neuwied, was carried by the Aiiftri
rance am. The utmost confulion prevails in the Freneh
;li(h ; army, and the generals are at a loss on what to re
ly has folvc. The head-quarters were (hifted to Cologne
t,ooo yesterday.
HAMBIjRGH, September 27.
" The news which spread so much alarm all over
, that Franconia, namely, that Morcau was on the point
: Ell- o) marching his whole army into that province,
viola- with a view of turning the archduke, has not been
aptu- confirmed ; and it is now known that the report <
) the originated from some thoufandsof republican troops,
is are dispersed in consequence of the late checks expe- 1
ite of rienced in Bavaria, having rallied and taken poll 1
iance near Aichftadt. This corps retreated, however, 1
: Re- on the 15th inft._ into Suabia, to rejoin Moreau's
army, which has taken a position between Dona- t
werth and Aug-fburgh. General Nauendorf and <
Latour are marching in two columns to drive it 1
;e of from that position, whilst field-marfhal c
vied, with a considerable corps, has penetrated into Sua- c
hich bia, to cut off Moreau's retreat, has poffefied him- r
The felf ef Btuchfal, Cailfruhe, and Stugard, and is t
:nvi- approaching Kehl, which has been bombarded by h
: the the Auftrians since the 18th inft. If we add to
mi- this, that- mod of the peasants in Suabia are arm- c
the ing against the French, we may form a judgment
r ' e d on the countiefs difficulties which Moreau will have
rea to encounter on his retreat from the Rhine,
yto " The archduke Charles pursues his vidorious I
iued career with unabated energy and success. On the n
wed r6th inft. he defeated the French near Limbourg, h
wed and forced them to recrofs the Lahn. In confe- It
: at quence of this defeat, Jourdan has been obliged to q
um abandotv his position near Wetzlaer, and to fall back (t
paf# Whe Lower Rhine, on'the fide of Duffeldorf. p
nch He has left the army, and arrived on the 18th inft. w
lav- at Bonn. An Austrian column is still endeavoring fs
to cut retreat of the French. The fiegt of n<
is raised, but Neuwied remains in A
the possession of the republicans." re
the
on HAGUE, September 24.
in- "Of the 25,000 French troops, which are in fn
the the pay of our republic, ic,coo have now marched K
iad to the Lower Rhine ; so that a considerable num- f e
ear her are still remaining in our country, commanded of
:n S by general De Jean." ' Jn
ta-
ear PASTADT, September 19. [)p
he « Yesterday began the siege of Kehl. We hear _
in very diftindly the firing on and from tljat place ""
lat Very few of the French, who,a few days since paf
d, fed throngh here, have reached that place, most of
11s them having been put to the sword by the Auftri
>m ans The latter do not think it will prove a difficult
ad ta(k to reduce Kehl, as the new works are not half D '
ed finilhed, and the old fortifications are inconfidera- fl
to ble. s " h
" Th.» arrived "here 12 pieces of ean
he non and 4howitzers, which the Imperialists, affifl
y, ed by the armed peasants, t«ok from tin; French,
er in the vicinity of the free imperial city of Zell r
ip They were destined for Moreau's army ; ana the
ie escort confiding of *60 chasseurs, was, either taken St"
11, or k-illed, each peasant is to receive a silver medal and lie
1* peasants in the diSrid call
hot Orlenau, of the biTSopric of Strafbtirgh, and fen:
e, of the Austrian part of the Brifgau, have taken P ro
arms against the French. The high road leading
ie from Lafle to Obterfwtiher is said to be crouded h" 0
k with armed peasants.
" s J' leld-raarfhal Petrafch treats those of Suabia, Un:
who have joined his army, with the utmost kind- exi(
1- ne.s. On their marching into Bvuchfal with colors tioE
0 flymg and drums beating, he ordered the prince „ *
b.fiiop s cellars to be opened, and wine to be di- P "
(Inbuted among thea. A corps of 7 , 000 pca f anu
and militia is also marching from Franeoniii to Su- ncki
e abia, and has sent some officers to field marshal lam
n retralch to know which army it is to joi». The 'enc
ir republicans who were.destined to occupy the coun 2HX
s try between Bruchfal and Kehl, for the purpose of bl T
d covering Moreau's rear, and who are now either
I. oifperfed, taken or killed, amounted to about B,ooc W 'r
- men." ' wile
3 con 1
f T. n VI / |' NNA » September 17. Pea!
» j Court Gazette of this day contains, amonpft
? th T cr , deta,ls ' ,he following accounts from our army 0
: in Italy— ' coun
r <; \\ ACC rfe t0 accoun 's feceived to day from S°"
f | field-marlhal Wurmfcr, dated the 10th inflLt, it
- I appears, that tne geneial being refo'ved to advance,
: | by way of Baffano, towards the Adige, for the
1 porpofe of relieving Mantua from the blockade
' tllC »«> on his rear, attacked and carried'
: on the 7th the polls of Piimolano and Corolo, and TI
0 " 8^ h ' attackcd the C °'PS Of field- derat
marthal lieutenant Qaofdannowtch, and drove him
from his pofit,on with some loss; but that field
marfcal Wurmfer, notwithstanding this, pursuing
his design, had fucceeocd, on the 6th, in making
himfelt master of the important po st of Legnano, T t
where the army under hi, command crossed ,|„ p J e
Adige on the loth ; so ,hat now no doubt re mains Ltu,
ot the second happy delivery of Mantua ; and that
m consequence of this faVoiable event, as well as
° sot , r . 3a,T j e mC,fure ' W(!erfd his m.jefty, j t „
may be hoped that affairs in that part will take the
fame favorable turn which they have taken in other £
part, of the theatre of war for some time since, to Wiev
e eternal glory of the arms of his majeffy. The most
more circumflantia! detad, of these events (hall 'heref
immediately after their arrival, be communicated to' Rfi
the public." Journ
- our rt
' SUABIA, September 18. fentin
th J Irn^ rral genera! Petrafch advance, still far- On
ake Tffi ?' ,7'; - the greatdt r *? id »y.
UKe possession of all the impprtant passes by which Wli
Moreau s arnjy, winch had penetrated too tar into S iflitu
o'.labia, might be obftruded in its retreat. Pre- t0 rev
vioully to the Imperial!!!.entering Carlfruhe on the ' h ° fc
I+tb » a " engagement happened iu t',
neighborhood between them and the French, who
■ment, were determined to maintaia possession of Carlfruhe.
which The engagement extended itfeif iot<s the city, and
i, was a confidsrable number of men were killed in the
In Hreets. The French, un-ler general Scherer, "were j
ur.ded repulsed in a!! quarters: a part of them were dif- j
ridge perfed, .and have retreated into the mountains of
mltri- the Schwarzwald. Near Ef»lingen 200, and near ]
reneh Raftadt 4.00 French, with the commandant of the a
ra re- latter place, were made prifonerg. An adjutant t
ilogne of general Moreau also fell into the hands of the u
Auftrians. Near Stutgard the latrer made them f
selves masters of the French hospital; and the bso- Jj
ty which the Imperialists made in Suabia, in bag- n
1 over gage, horfei, &c. is very conflderable. J
point The French have quitted Gerrnerfheira, to aflift
visce, Keiil, which is menaced by the Auftrianj.
been in :V ui tcmberg the Auftrians have taken a pow
eport der magazine belonging to the French. All the
oops, French magazines and hospitals are at Ulm, whi- tr
expe- ther the I'rench have sent two thousand men. In 0 i
post .the Black Forest, the peasants have blocked tip the
revcr, two partes called Heil and Heaven, to prevent the V
eau s French from penetrating. The greatest confterna- tl
)ona- tion prevails at Strafciurg, an accouut of the change tl
and of affairs in Suabia : all the mjlitary in that city, ec
ve it at Colmar, and the neighbouring places, are order-
ed to march to Kehl. The administration of the cc
Sua- departments has declared itfeif permanent. Gene- ex
him- ral Moreau, who it is said, loft 8000 men on pene- C y
id is trating into Bavaria, will, on account of a wound Wi
dby he has received, go to Strasbourg.
dto Ike imperial regiment of Ferdinrnd, has been n e
arm- conveyed in waggons into the vicinity of Kehl. «
*e»t
h ave HEIDELBERG, September 20. ««
A letter from Bifchen, the head-quarters of M. «
ious De Petrafch, dated the 17th, states, that a detach- «
the tnent of cavahy, arid of the free corps of Servians,
urg, had taK.cn at Sruttgard, an a:d-de-eamp of general a
>nfe- Moreau, and a number of other prisoners, befidesa <«
dto quantity of money and baggage. The fame letter ««
Jack states, that the peasants of Black F.reft, got «
iorf. possession of 15 pieces of cannon, which the French «
. were lending to Strafburg, and made the escort pri- .«
ring faners, They sent deputies to the general to an
of nounce him, that they were ready to fccond the t h<
s la Auftrians, and defend the defiles of Brifgau. The
regiment of the archduke Ferdinand set out in two dei
hundred waggons ; Kehl is tp be attacked to night. ou
Some hulans assert, that they met with a courier «
! tn from general Petrafch, who inforired them, that d a ,
Kehl vas taken by assault on the 18th, at half part ;
ton- seven m the evening. They add, that ,50 pieces bv
ot C3m,on remained in pofTeflion of the Auftrians, J
and that the French had loft 2000 men, wounded 1
and taken prifoneis. The reft pasTed ilia Rhine
upon a flying bridge. (PcftiUion dts Armies j
tear '
,as - Philadelphia^
t of ■ '
Sri- MONDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 21 i 7 a
u!t . ' —— obi
ralf D r< ° on Thurfdav evening iaft, by the Rev . Dr. an ;
Rqgttj, Mr. George Edwards to Miss Jane Fircu- -
ra " S9», both of Chester. J ,CU wif
11 sou
** Leg'islatvre of New-Jersey. '*! 1
ill- Clt\
;h, New-Jersey, House of Aflembly, 0 f
t T \ U . pril
preaching period, at which the Preiident of the United T
States, has dedar.-d his intention of retiring from pub- 1
nd lie to private lite, embwe.with pleaiure, this early oc- r ' er
id cafion to expref. their own, and in their opinion, the that
nt ) lentimects ot their continents, suggested by that ap- war
en proarhmg event. ' v ,
»R That the wisdom, firmnefs,
* ana patriot,fm of the President of the United States •
during tus a.lminiftration, and his faithful and hiehly "° n
important iervices rendered to the Government of the defti
la, Union at the molt mterefling and critical periods of its
d- exiltence, have a just claim to the thanks and approba- com
irß tion of this House.
cc unanimvvjljf, That the late address of the that
President to the citizens of the United States, is, in the
t opinion of this House. replete with fehtiments of politi- —
cal wifd®m, truth and juitice, and merits our grateful
- acknowledgement— and while we fmcerely regret and
'imcnt bis determination to retire from the fuperin
|,c tendance of the Government of the United States, the Fo
n- ff x ' et y anil fbbcitude, which we sensibly and irrefifta
of u 7 ,fc». en thie ° ccafio "> ar e f°n=e degree dirninifhed
£r by ifce hope and expeflat.on, that his fuccefTor in office, Tl
will be emulous to imitate his virtues, and pur sue the
wife and wholesome system of politics, which has so M
conspicuously diftin f uilhcd hi. administration, and so Crt,v
efleitually secured to us the inestimable blefline. of < ' 0 " C
, and theprefent unparallelled profperitv of our so J u
ft country. youn
Ordtred, That the foregoing resolutions be sent to bers *
council for incurrence* and that'the Speaker of the Tl
House of AfTembly be requetled to present a copy Cl
? thereof to the President of the United States. Ed hi
By order of the House, ' "lie 1
'* JAMES H. IMLAY, Speaker thisc
e of the House of AiTemblv. wi)l 1
„ reiftic
Council Chamber, fl
,1 Tt r • r, . November 16th, 1 71 6. be ex
deration S resolutions being taken into eonfi-
" therein** 4 ' unanim( That Council do concur In at
y By order of Council,
x JAMES LINN,
Tt,. r • r 1 • Vice-Prefident.
> Jne foregoing resolutions, purfuiat to order, were From
: Say ,r fi . tire Prcfidcnt ° f thc united -
_No
s NEW-YORK, November 14.
: Senate of the State of N»w-Y©rk.
' u ? rM ', ,1 " n : Prefid ent of the United States, in an ( B ?
• office hath (f* a ,0 The
Ofcce, hath exprencd certain sentiments, dilated a, we
' iX ! ; UrC " ' OVe ler hls c ° un,r y and tie
Resolved, That the said address be inserted on the » ate '
Journals of this Senate, as a perpetual teftiLonv of By PE i
KSv°" h ' "*"• -
. IN ASSEMBLY.
the H ° ufe Ona l'nio«fly
agreed to the followngrefelution.to wit:— 7 or Bdi
if ° P r ° f th ' # branch of the Le- on boa
» rid
s x^-
And whereas, thi, House consider th» puUUc eha-
wVia rider of GEORGE WASHINGTON, President cf
Vishe. s he United States, as exhibiting a career of virtue and
and S' or y» perhaps unequaled in the annals of the world s
i the whereas they conceive the present period when he
is about to retire from the walk of public lifs, as a pro
w f. r f per occafien of teftifying to him and to the world, tkeir
e dil- fsntiaients refpetSittg him :
is of Be it therefore nnanirtloufly refolded, That the
near late patriotic addiefs of his excellency CeorgS
fthe Washington, President of the. United States, to
itant the people of the said fta'es, be entered at length
the upan the journals of this house. as a memorial
hem future ages of their unabated affefti.m to that il
hao. luftrious citizen, and of their high sense of the e
bag- minent and d:fintcretted Cervices which he has ren
dered to his csantry.
assist ■■
For the Gazette of the United States.
>ow- Mr. Fen no,
the OBSERVING in Claypoole's paper of this
wbt- morning, a cafe stated, Nov. igth, 1792, for the -<
opinion of the judges and the attorney general, rtf
the pefling the eledtion of ele&ors of a President and
the Vice-PreGdent of the United States, under a law of
ma- this commonwealth, pafled 7th April, 1792 ; and
"K e the opinion of the judges, &c. thereupon, fubjoin
:lty» ed, 1 was led, frsm a convi&ion that ihe opinion
der- (and the very wording of the opinion warrants the
the j conviflion) was predicated, upon the cafe stated, ta
!r, e- exan- ine whether the law was set forth with accura
te- C y, in the cafe as stated-—I have (atisfied rayftlf it
und I W as pot.
I The cafe stated, represents the latv in this man
een ner—-" duplicate retutni of theeltftion are dire&ed
" ta be made out, one of which (hall be delivered
I " to the Prothonotary of the proper county, and
" the other to the Sheriff thereof, to be ira.ifmit*
M. « ted by him, to be delivered twelve days after the
eh-1 *« election to the Governor, See,"
lns > The law a&ually runs thus—" duplicate returns
:ral «« thereof, shall be made out, one of which (hall be
csa « delivered to the Prothonotary of the proper coun
ter " ty, and the other to the Sheriff thereof, to- be
s ot " tranfmitted-fcy him|, to be delivered ■within twelve
ich << d a y s a p er ca ch refpeftive eledlion, to the Gover
jri- 1 •« nori &e.''
3n - An opinion founded on a misrepresentation ®f
i' le the law, must fall to the ground.
I Query.—-Who Haled this cafe, and therein moul
wo I ded the law to answer his own purposes, by leaving
ht. I on: the word within, so as that it should lead
ier I <« twelve days afterinftead of, " within twelva
lat I days after."
a '* I Query—-Was the opinion Understood to be given
:es I by (everal of the judges, &c. this day, on the lav*
n, » j of 1796, grounded 011 a like ftateraen:.
Ed » November 19.
Nt I ——
by This day's mails.
= I NEW-YORK, November 18.
1 BUONAPARTE.
This general, in a letter dated Sept. l6,det -ils
aferies of brillipnt manoeuvres, which terminated in
obliging Wurmfer with the remains of the Auftn
>r. an army, to shut himfelf up in Mantua, where he
u " was closely belieged. The battle of St. George'* »
fought on the 14th September, which was deeifive
ih forcing Wurmfer and his army to retire into the
city, was very bleody. Buonaparte states the loss
of the Auftrians at 2,560 men killed, and 2000
prisoners with 25 pieces of cannon.
? d " THE EMPRESS of RUSSIA,
b- . as notified the Emperor of Germany by a Con
c. riei- who arrived at Visnna en the sth September*
1e that (he determined to take an aflive part iu the
f»-1 war, and that fhe;had ordered a levy of 60,000 men
who were on their march to Germany. The Ruf
fian Ambassador at the Court of also meu-
tioned the maich of this army, which is said to be
1£ destined to aft in Italy.
ts j squadron of seven fail of the line, under the '
i-| command of Sir Roger Curtis, was dispatched on
the 24th Septembet to intercept the Freneh fleet
le that appeared off Newfoundland.
>e I
a Pantheon,
- AND RtCICETTS's amphitheatre.
e Tor EcyjKstßiAN and Stage Performances,
Conner of Chefnut and Sixth-streets.
>J 1 HIS EVENING, Monday, November it,
0 L-, Ricketts be S s leave to inform the Ladies and'
b Crentlenien of Philadelphia, that he has, at a verr*
f expence, engaged Mr. & Mr,. Chambers,
r lo jutly ADMIR»D in Carslina—alfo, Miss Sully, a
young lady only 7 years old, a pupi! of Mr. Cham
-0 bfcrs. 1
cI .u Thi ' evtnin ?' Mt "- Chambers will sing, in
r the course of the evening entertainments, the celebrat
ed hunting song of "The Twins of Latona." A eo
mie long, by Miss Sully (being her firft appearance in
this city.) Several dramatic pieces are in rehearsal, and
will be brought forward in a few days, under the di
rection of Mr. Chambers.
t. The P5 ticulars of this evening's performance will
be expfefled in the hand-bills,
I o-Morrow will be Published,
- In an octavo pamphlet, by J. ORMROD, No iir.
Chefnut-ftreet, '
An Authentic 7 ranjlation of
A N O T £
From the Minijler of the French Rrpublic, to tht
Secretary of State of the United Statu.
I Nov. 21.
in the Press, ~
And fpredily will be published,
WILLIAM COBBETT, opposite Christ Church)
1 he Gros Moufqueton Diplomatique j
Diplomatic Blunderbuss:
Containing Citizen Adet's Notes to the r
State, as also his Cockade Proclamation ; with a nrJ
By PETER PORCtjPfNE. k o v, 2[ ' ' th 5 P ref « e -
For ■" '
, The Brig TWO BROTHERS
John Needham, master • wil fj l'- -
Joseph Anthony & Co.
Nov. 21. *
The Captain has a few barrels of Rum
and Oil on board for sale.Tor Sale,
Three-flory BRJCK'HCUSE and "Lot, in ChefoTit jj
_y-~A street, between Front and Second ftruets, in which
•MeflVs. Calbraith & Co. have for many yeirs (and
do) carried on bulinefs.
Pofl'eflien'v. , i!l be"given intme month, or sooner.
For terms apply to WILLIAM SELL, or r*c
HECTOR CALBRAITH. 13
•A'prfl ai. $ to.
For Sale,
By Jehu Hollingfieotth, & Co. J
<5 hhds. Weft-India" Rum, 3d and 4th proof,
5 Barrels best Indigo, and,
A few thousand bushels of TurVs lfland fait 1 .
06 17. <1. J
For Sale, v / :
By J. WARDER, PARKER Ess Co. £ c .
An Invoice of Cordage,
' •Crfhfifliag of diDfereiH Vitfi, "from 11 inch cables dewn
"to rope of 2 inches, of different lengths: Imported in
the ship Swift, from Hull, ana entitled to drawback.
Sept. 17. dtf _ .
LANDING,
Out of different vtjfels from England, and for sale '°
by the fubjenbers on reafinable terms,
Superfine and common cloths, and cafiimers
Ribbed and Ariped do. do.
Blankets , mottled green and silk rags.
Superfine blHe, Claret, and common coatings,
Kerfevs, Bear-flcins, plains and Halfthicks,
Swanftins,, Serges and Flannels, ,
Britilh Ingrain Carpeting, ,/
Hatsafforted in cases of i» dor. each. V>
Chocolate chintzes, printed Callicoes and Handkerchiefs. ?
scarlet Cardinals, and Scarlet Snail, ue
Varn, Worftcd, and Cottcn holiery, 4i
Beavers, Thiekfetts, Velvets, Corduroys, -&c. &c. " lai
JJuffand drab Genoa Cords of a superior quality, on
4d. Sd lod lid. acd. nails, and frying pans, or
An ifftrtment of Ironmongery, Sutlery and a vtriet) of
of India cottcn, and Cik goods. an
Thomas Id Jofnua Fifhtr. |p
No. s, Dock-fttreet. n .
Also by the Dublin,
t-8 and 4-4 Irilh Linens affortedin boxes of Jo "pieces, v(
do. Brown, Glazed Linnen.
OA. 17. dtf. f ,
JFASHJONABLE WAISTCOATING. cc
GEORGE DOBSON, No. 25, dl
SOUTH THIRD-BTREET,
Has rectivtd per the Diana, from London,
Clouded and striped Sptnifh Swamdowe
Clouded Erminats and Moleikias
Striped do. and d«.
Figured Manillas
Scarlet figured Erminttt ,
Printed Florinetts
Do. Caflinets and Caffimeres
Superfine printed Quilting-, ijeweft paCerr.s
Also, per different arrivals, g
A large and general affortme-nt of Dry a
Goods, u
Suitable to the preftnt and approaching feafffn.
November 5. dtt
Just Landing,
jtt South jlreet <whcirf, from en board the flip Sedg•
ley. Captain Hodge, from St. PeieTjburg,
The following Goods: n
Rvffia Sail Duck, firft quality. f
Do. Sheeting do.
Do. Diaper.
Do. Huckaback.
Do. Crash.
bo. Mou'd Candles, 4, 5 to the lb. of the r
English fixe.
Do. White Candle Tallow.
Do- White Soap in fmali boxes.
Dfe. Cordage of fine yarn. .
Ravens Duck. '
Isinglass, id and (znd fort.
,Horse Hair unctrl:d.
Ruflia Bar Ifon. jj
Do. Hoop Iron.
Do. Hail Rods.' e
to Tons Oakum and Junk.
St. Petcrfbarg Clean Hemp.
For Sale by
Philips, Cramoad, & C».
OSober 11. § f
~ * Just Landing,
And far Sale, a quantity' of
BOURDEAUX BRANDY,
FROM onboard t>e fchoeaer Lydia & Polly, Oliver
Jenkins matter, lying at Wileock's wharf. For
terms, enquire on board said schooner.
November 15th. (i» ]
Gafpard Cenas
Will open his Dancing School
' On the ift of November, at 10 .'clock in the morning,
at OsHen's Hotel. OA. 17. *mwf4
Wm. Holdernesse, No, 76,
HIGH-STREET,
_ His received by tne late arrivals,
A &ttt SeteSed yfssonMl.vT of
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
* Haberdashery Good?,
Which he will fell, whclefale ami retail, »n the very
toueft terms ;
AmongJl wiieb are
Si.me elegant 4-4 and 7-8 Chintzes and CoUeas, new
pirterr.s
Ditto Fnniitnre ditto
Ditto Dimity
tamboured, Book, and Jaranet Mufiifti
Ditto in G®ld and Silver
Ditto Neckcloths, very fiTie
Mimoas of the firft tfuality
Silk and Cotton Hosiery
Umbrella* of the firft quality, assorted
Irilh Linen*, very fire, and Table Linens
Marfeiites and Cotton Counterpanes
■Jsv lc Blankets affortea—Ac. &c.
C -vober 16. a
Wafliington Lottery.
TICKETS, wscramed undrawn, may be pnrchafed or
c oljU g«d fcr prizes, at the Ofr.oe, No. 147, Chcfnut
i'-reet. wh«re a corred Numerical Bock is kept for pyblic
mfpeclioil. Also CaOal Lottery Tickets for sale or ex
for prizes di aw* in the Wa&ington Lottery, of
" vV.:h the s*th and 39th days returns ar« received.
■y- yii Business of a Broker carried on aj usual.
. . A SHARi iu the NEW THEATRE to be fold
on reaTorabli ternaf.
Ksvcmtw JJ. . 'Wf
The brig Weft-Indian's Cargo
Wtibbe Landed on Monday mornings lor
" The t. ift inflant, V
At SoOth-ttrcet Wharf, V
Frtrh the North Jtde rf 1
t»o Hoglhecds and one barrel CbJFm: C
13 of Sugar
loj Hogiheadt hijjh proof Rum. * A
For Sule by zes,
PETER BLIGHT. p
November 19. §* 'si
patent SHOT. . j
THE general consumption of Patent .Shot having been
preventad by the high price it has hithsrto been f«l J J
" at, the Proprietors tike this method of informing the
■Public that they lb ay in future be fupphed witli that arti-
cle at the fame prices-as common Sho", by g
• Correfponpents to apply to Walkkss, ftlAi/rlr.A Co.
London. Nov 9 (
n FOR SALE, hi
About i,6<Do acres of Land,
■ WELL situated, laying on and between Marsh'
and Beech Creeks, Mifflin county, Pennfylvani;, in I
' • four, feparKc Patents. For terms ot sale apply to
Wm. Blackburn,
No. 64, South S<torid-ftr«t.
October 31. ""vftf
F 0 R SA L E,
A very Valuable Eltate, —
CALLED TWITTENHAM, situate in the
townftip of Ufper Derby, andeotlntyof Delaware,
1. 7 l-i miles from Philadelphia, and half a mile frdm the
uew Weftem road: containing 13® acres of excellent land,
45 of which are goOd watered meadow, 90 of prime wood
* land, and the rtft arable oi tha firfi suf-' ity. ihcre are
on the premifesa good two (lory btick hovife, with 4 rcum
on a floor, and Cellars under the whole, with a pump-weß
? of excellent water in front; a large frame bam, ftabfw, r n
and other convenient buildings; a fntcke-honfe and Ttone, £
spring-house ; two good apple orchards, and one of peach- -y
e<i. The fields are all in clover, except those immediately jj
atider tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advantage f
of watef in each of them, which r&idtrs it peculiarly coa- j
*' venient for grazing. UI.
The situation is ploafaiitandhealthy, and Irom the high j
enltivUion of thelalifc, the good neighbourhood, and the t
~ vicinity to the city, it is very suitable for a gentleman « £
country feat. 1
The foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob F.arman jj
deceased, and offered for sale bv _ 1
Mordeeai Lewis, 0
Oft. 31. taw Surviving Execitor
,
A Short Delay —
In the Drawing of the Canal Lottery,
la Wifhington city, has been unavoidably occaf.OHtd
by the nnforefeen intervention of Mr. Blodgct's Lottery
—but as the major pajt of the tickets are now dilpofed
of, this is to inform the public that the drawing of the Ca- er a
nallottery will certainly commence without fail.cn the (,ce
firft Mondiy ia January 1797, and those holdi;:g tickets, wa
y aje hereby requested to fend a ftatetr-Mit of those fold, and t OO
those on hand. taic
KOTLY YOUNO, +.e
DANIFL CARROLL, of DuddingMn, ter
_ GEORGE WALKER, wa
THOMAS LAW, , lair
JAMES BARRT, sol
' g . W. M. DUNCANSON. I
rh. Printers who gave our advertifr®sets a plate in
their newspapers, are reqaefted to give tfcis notice idmif- bc
Injn, as the remaining tickets are expecled to be soon above rc
par, and we wHh adventurers to be timely informed
Nov. tt.
Lottery and Broker's Office, thc
. No. 64, South Seccnd ITiSST.
THICKETS m the Canal Lottery, No. a, for fde—a
1 Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
the late lottery.
Check Books kept for examination and rrgiftering, for a 1
the City of Washington, No. a, and Pattefon Lotteries, oh
both of which are now drawing—information where co;
tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn 4 1
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in thc late New- w '
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public school Lottery, for hi:
examination. a
The fubferibor solicits the application of the public p 1
and his friends, who wife to purchase or fell Bank Stock, ag
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houfei, Lands,
&c. or to obtain money on deposit of property.
®* Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
sale at Ten Dollars eash, which will be drawn early in ~
— the Spring.
Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, Aurtfl 18, 1796. rrr.h
ci Brokers Office, and »■
COM\nSSION STOREv
No. 63 Srroth Third ftreet,oppofit« the national aew Bank. t u
SAMUEL M FROUNCES and JOHN VAN REED, J,
have entered into co-partnership, under the firm of jf
FRACNCES 3c VAN REED, in the business of Brokers, p
Conveyancers and CommilEon merchants. They buy and r
fell on commission every fpeeie* of Hock, notes of haad, jj
biUs of exchange, houses and lands. See. at
Monit procured on deposits, &c. 4cc. all kinds c' p
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatnefsaod J,
dispatch; account! adjusted, and books fettled, ia thc g
tnoft corrt& manner. Coafiant attendance will be given. $1
They iolicit a shore of the public i*Xor ; they are deter- tc
mined to endeavour to deserve it. \
[id N. B. The utmost feeTecy obfervdH.
SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES, n
JOHN VAN REED. n
Itry Philad. augud »7, 1796- m&wtf p
Sheridan's Dictionary,
3CW THK SI STB FBITiON, I<
Is this Day Published,
BT IV. TOUNC, mills h! SON, _
Corner of Second and Chefhat streets,
In On; large Bro. volume, price 3 dc'.ltrs.
A COMPLETE DICTIONARY of the ENGLHH
LANGUAGE, both with regard to found and meaning,
one main object of which is to eQxhlila a olats aid per
manent Standard of Pronunciation. To which i* prtfixed,
a Prafoatal Grammar. t
sr THOMAS SSttLIDAX, d. M. f
October 31. t
— Mr. FRANCIS,
(Of the New Theatre) _ '
;j or ' I 'AKES this opportunity of returning thanks to his
f- nXlt _ I scholars end to the public. Mr. Francis intends, ,
üblie oa ■"fttirn from Maryland, to open a public aca-
CI . uemy for dancing, upon a plan entirely new. He
of •latterj himfelf that his attention to his pupil* hi
therto renders any promises of condnoliug his future
I. schemes on the molt liberal andftr.iteil terms, of pro
fold priety, totsKy unaecciTary.
A'. B. Private tuition m usual.
Jt»nt J J2W
*jujt Imported from London la' Liverpool,
airEARTHiN Ware, in crates and hcgfhcads, *'611
orted pj a
Wiwe Bottlft In hampers
Window GWs of all feci j
Two cases of ftitionarv a
One clicft cf yellow JefuiisHark
Two cases of Roll Arnctta
* A small ccmSgnment of Rose Blanket#, Flannels, Bai- 1
zes, Broad-cloths, Coatings, Plain<, &c.
Paints, of various color:
•BiJkctfa.lt in hogiheadt.
Also or. hand-, s *
Madeira wine, very old, in pipes, liogfhc*d« and pi a
quarter caftj Pta
1 Hoilafnd gin in pipes, firft quality
Anchors of different files Pla
j A few trunks of ladies'Vrenchfhoes alTorted
Silk nankeen, &c. _ Wi
Likewise in aflortvnent of Dutch goods, consisting ot Lai
Ofnsbef£», ticklenbergs, bed-tick, ft ripe*, checks
Morlaixlinen, plattilas, ravens duck, Kritannias, C Cai
■ And forfalrby the package onty, by C*'
1 htmas & John Ketland,
{ VV'alnut-ftrret wharf. q^.
i Nov. 15. eodtf Bo
To be Sold, plj
The Time of a ffiiart, active Negro Lad, 7 _s
Who hA Eleven y»-art to frtse.
Enquire at No. 58, South l'ront street. am
QAobcr 18. § P"
1 ■ ant
PROPOSALS, J
c ' By WILLIAM COBBETT, eppofite Chriff Church, Phi-
I ladelphia, for poMtfhing by fuMcription,
ADAMS'S
a Defence tf the American Conditutions.
® CONDITIONS: Ir
s - I. The work (Sill be printed on Enghfh wove-paptr, page
for page, from the best Londoa Edition; ol course it ,
wi'l be comprized in three large oiiavo volumes.
1 11. For the three velupnes, bouad in boards, till price to
e fiibferikers isto be only four dollars, and to non-fobferi- '
bcrs, five cclUrs and a half.
ill. The fnbfcriptien fliall remain .pen for ten days, awl
if an enconragiifg number ofiiibferibersare obtained in
e that time, tho publilher engages to-have the work r«»dy *
'* for delivery in fix weeks from the present date.
Ijth November, >79 6 - % • u,
1 N. B. Siibfcriptions are tsken by the principal'aookfci
lets of Philadelphia aud New York
0- The l'ut fcribers to the HistOry of Jaeobir.ifm are res- , .
peftfully informed, that it will be ready for delivery
early next week.
Nov 16. §*■ —
STOP THE THIEVES IT!
d LAST Wednesday Evening, October 10, between the
J heurs of 7 and loo'clock, thebcdioomof Mr Ricketts in
d (VEller's hotel Was entered, either by means of falfe keys, '
l " or at the window, by some villain or villains, who mull have x
ie been acquainted with the fitaation of the house (as the door
was found locked after they had committed the theft) who
d took away from amongst several trunks, ONE which con
tained a valuable part 01 Mr. Rickett's but of which
he is not yet able to ascertain ihrcontents particularly. Af
ter bringing the said trunk away? and emptying it of up
wards of a thousand dollars iu cash and bank, notes, the vil
lains left k behind the circus, during the time that the per
formances ofthe evening were going forward
It is earnestly requrfted, that all tavern-keepers on the fta#e
[ n roads, and the ferry houses, as well as all civil officers, may
a be watchful in securing fufpicloua ptrlons, m»y -
fC redundance of cash, \*htch their appearance would by no
means bespeak them to be poflefficd of.
One Hundred Dollars Reward
Will be given for lecuring the thief orthievet, and a far
ther reward for securing them with the property.
Oit 12- d cc
M —— — — T
•J Twenty Guineas Reward.
RAN AW AY from the fubferiber on the ijd O&obor,
or a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSES ; 21 years
ES , old; about 5 feet 8 inches high ; had on a mixed green A
re coat, with a green velvet cape and oval yellow buttons ;
vn a striped vest; a pair of dark spotted pantaloons, and
K . whole boots much worn. It is probable he may change ; C
Of his name and dress. He has been actuftoaied t. driving Jol
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will be te
He paid for securing him to that the fubferiber may get him o;
: k, again, and if brought home all reasonable charges paid by :ol
is, Robins Cbamberlaine.
Eafton, Maryland, Nov. 10. 14 $ Jtnlawtf ;
or j t<
in ; i n
Tveafury Department, £
' September 28, 1796. *
NOTICE is hereby given, that propofais will be re-
eeived at the office of the Secretary of the Treasury *.
until the cxpiritloli of the "firft day of March next en•
suing. for the supply of all rations xrhidi may he required
f#r the nfe of the United States, frona the firft day of
June, 1797, to the thirty-firft day of May, >708, both 1
U, jays incluiive, at the places and within the diftnAs here
of afscr racntiofled, viz. At Ofwego; at Niagara; at t'
ffs, lfie; at Sandnlky Lake, and on Sandufey a
(hd Riv.r; at Detroit; at Mtchilimackinac; at Fort-Frank- |,
*d, lin; at Pittsburgh ; at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hamilton;
at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-Jcffcrfon ;at GrcHville; at
® f Ptcqac Towa and Loramies Store jat Fort Adams; at
>od p ort Wayne; at Fort Defiance ;at any place b«low Fort
the Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Eric; at Fort
en. Stsuben ; at Fort Maffac ; at any place from Tort Maflac
:er- to the south boundary of the United States on the river
MiStippi ;at Fert Kii.i; at Ouiatanon.
If lupplies (hall be required for any poitaor places not
mentioned in this notice, ail £uch fuppl.es fhail b« fur
nifhed t prices proportioned to those to "be pjid at the
polls before recited* er as may be hereafter agreed on
between the United States and the Contra"or.
The rations to be l'appiied are to coniiit of the fol
lowing articles, viz.
One pcund two ounces of bread or flour.
One pound two ounces of beef, er fourteen ounce. 01
» pork or bacon. (
Half a gill of nim, krar.jy t whi&ey. .
One quart and half a pint of
Two quarts .f Vinegar, (per hundred rations <
■"S* Two pounds of Soap, C ,
ser " One pound of Candles, J
'""i The ration* are to be furnifhed in such quantities, as that ,
ikere (hall at all times during the said term, be fufiicieat
for the cenfumption of the troops at Michilimackinac, De
troit, Niagara, auiOfwego, fer the term of fix months in
■ advance, and at each of the other pods, for the term of
( at leafl three moaths in advance, in good and wholesome
provif.ons, if the fame stall be required. It is to be un
, . dertload, that the Centra<3or is to be at the eipenc* and
j' 5 risk of 1 joirg the ftipplics to the troops at each poil, and
n ' that all loiTea fuilained by the depredations of an en«ny, or
* ca " by means of the troops ofthe United States, fliall be paid
H. e for at the price of the article, captured or destroyed, on
1 hi" the depositions of two or more persons of creditable cha
ture racier., and the certificate of a commiffioncd officer, af
pro- certaiaing the circumftancu of the less, and the amouat
of th* at licks for which compensation fliall be claiiaed
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
,2W Secretary of the T rcafnry.
'
. Robert Smith & Co.
1 No. 58, South Frtnt-Jlrcct,
Hive received by the late arrival* from London, Liver
pool, and Hull, and by the Ohio arrived at N. York
from Glasgow,
A large & general afiortment of Goods,
Suitable for the Sea/on, con/fling of
Duffle, Point and Rose Checks, in (null packages
Blanket! Oznaburgs and Brown Hol-
White, Red, and Yellow lands
Flannel Brown and white Rufiia.
Bocking and other Baizes "heetings
Second and coarse Cloths Drilli»gs and Diaaers
' Plain and mixed Cafflmeres Calicoes and Chintzes
Plain, twilled, and striped Jacoi.et and Book MuQins
Coatings Do. do. Tamhoured
Plains, Kerleys, and Half- Do. do. Handkerchiefs
thicks Printed linen rnd check d».
White & fpotud Swanikins Romal and Madraft do.
t Lainef and fwanfdown vest Mufiin and Chintz Shawls
ftiapes Red Ticks
Carpets and Carpeting Table Cloths
Calimancocs and Durants Laces and Edgings
Moreens and Taboreens Fashionable Ribbons
Joans Spinning and Crapes Do Hats and Bonnets
Camblets and Wildbores Cotten &. Worftcd Hosiery
EombaZeens it Bombazets Gloves aqd Mitts
~ Ratttnets and Shalloons White & coloured Thread*
Plain, Genoa and printed Italian Sewing Silks
Vclverets £c ThicVcts Ivory and Horn Combs
'} 7-8, 4-4, and 11-8 Cotton Tapes, BindingsyjVins, &c.
They have on hand a large aHortmcnt of India Muslins
and Calicoes, black and coloured Perfiana, Banrianno and
pullicat Handkerchiefs, 4c. and a quantity of Nutmegs
— and Mace.
O&pter 17. m«fim
Imported in the late arrivals,
jlnd to be Sold by
JA'COB PARKE,
Wo. 49, North fide of High-flreet, Philadelphia,
A Gh NEPAL ASSORTMENT OF
Ironmongery, Cutlery, Sadlery, &c.
amokcjt which aae
SMtrHS'Anvils, Vices, and Files; .Saw-mill, Croft
j cut, Hand, and other Saws; Carpenters' Planes, Chisels,
and other Tools; Catrving ChifeU and Googes; Locki,
Hipjev Bolts and Latches; Nails, Sprigs, I'aeks, and
Screws; Prying-Pane.; Smoothinir-irnns; Shovels and
n Tongs; Coffee Mills; Candlelticks; Snuffers; Warming.
Pans; Table Knives asd r criispß>di*g Whips; Bar
low Pen, and other Pocket Kniv.s; Razors; Scifiars;
Neediest Ivory Md Horn Combs; heft Kirby Fifii
Hooks; Dials Cabinet F-jmirore; Waggon Boxes; Sheet
Brjafs; plated and un'd Bridle Bits and Stirrups ; ilta
r_ Si die Nails;, Girth and Straiiinig Wrbbs ; —with mnft
kinds of Ironmongery, Cutlery, aadlcry, Bnit Wares,
kc. Sec.
OA»ber 14. mwffiw
Saies of India Goods*
The Cargo »f the (hip Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cal
-1? cutta and Bengal,
n CONSISTING OF
», /L Large and general assortment of Bengal Mid Madm*
e XJL COTTON and SILK GOODS.
> r AMONG WHICH ARE
* A variety fine worked and plain Muflsns,
■fc Dorea&*, ls\\ Also,
(' A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
P" In boxes and bags—a ad BLACK PEPPER^
For Sale by
Willi ngs £ff Francis,
' e No. a 1 Pecn Street.
'V June t §
i* ■■ 1 . . ...
WANTED,
As Cook, in a private family,
A YOUNG WOMAN who can produce good re»
commendations of an unexceptionable cfcara&er. En
quire of the Printer.
November 17. Jtf
Loft Last Evening,
en At Ricketts's Amphitheatre, (supposed to be taken by
3 ; some villiin out of a gentleman's pocket)
□d A red Morocco-Leather POCKET-BOOK.
ge J Containing ibont 185 dollars in banknotes; three note*
ng j of hand of Rofs and Simfon, No. *04, JOS and XO6, di
he ted iathlaft August, payable 60 days after date, to the
™ order of Paul Siemen, together for 5150 dollars; an order
by 1 of Mrs; Ann \ acpherfon, from Paul Siemen, en Laeh
lin Mac Neil, Ef<j. at Port-au-Prince, f..r joc dollars; bc
fidss several letter s and papers of no nfe hut to the proprie
tor. The notes of hand and order are with net endorse
— roent. EIGHTY DOLLARS REWARD is offered to
i any person who will discover and fceure the thief, and
FORTY DOLLARS for only bringing the aSove menti
oned notes and papers at No. 1:9, corner of Front and
re " Mulberry streets. d OS. 11.
' —■
:" d ' VVafhmgton Canal Lottery,
Of N°. I.
«h "f T rHEREAS the State of Maryhwd has autherifed
re- VV the underwritten, te raise twenty-fix
at two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cattmp
a Canal through the City of Wafhiagton, fro*i th V'
ik- eomacto theEaftern Branch Harbour.
n ; The following h the SCHEME of No. I.
at Via -i Prhfeof 40,000 dollars, ic,oo>
I ditto 10,000 lo,cJO
crt 7 lafl drawa 7
on Tickets, each f i,oo ° ih
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
* tr 10 ditto 400 4,c00
ao ditto 100 2 poo
Mt JJ ditto SO i,TS°
ur " 5750 ditto II *9.008
, " e To be raifsd for th« Canal, »6,jjo
r j3jo Prizes, 17JP G ®
lo *" 11650 Blanks, not two to a prile.
17500 atTen Dollars, - 175,C0S
1 01 The Ceramifioners hav» taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid a& for the paniflual payment of
the i-riies.
The drawing of this Lottery wHI comm«nce, without
ons delay, as loon as thf Tickets are fidd, of which timely
notice will be given.
Su Ji prizes as arc not demanded ie fit moatll*aFter th«
drawing is finiihad, Iball be considered as relinquished for
;eat .bcnerit of the Canal, and appropriated acccrdingly-
De " (Stgned) NOTLEY YOUNG,
* m s DANIEL CARROLL, of D.
' ot LEWIS DEBLOIS.
ame GEORGE WALKER,
VVm. M. DUNCANSON,
3 THOMAS LAW,
or JAMES BARRY.
City of Feb. 11. 5
» on .j;
cha- —
< as - PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO,
ouat XT J
I*o. I*9
CHISWVT-STHIT.
7. [Price Fight Collars per Antrem.)
k