tiilHtttl States, & Philadelphia Daily
*2».i'YV' > TUESDAr y V ! *
Clocks and Watches.
LESLIE AND PRICE,
No. 79. Market streit, Philadelphia,
HAVE IMPORTED, by the late arrivals from
London, a large assortment «f WARRANTED
IVJ /CHES, e»nfifting of horizontal, capp'd and
wwel'd Gald Watches, with fecoads, of fnperior
workman Ihip and elegance ; a!fo capp'd and jewej'd
and pla™ °° Jd Wate+.ct; -capp'd k jewell'd, capp d,
ftcondi, day of the month, and phin Silver Watches ;
eight day & chamber Clocks; elegant French Clock*
with marble frames ; eight day and thirty hour, brass
works, &c.
Decern bet ai, 1796. dxm
Imported from London Is" Liver pool,
EARTHEN WARE, in crates and hoglheads, well
assorted
wine Bottlts in hampers
Window Glass of all sizes
Two cases of stationary
One chest of yellow Jefoits Bark
Two safes of Roll Arnotu
A small/consignment of Role Blankets - , Flannels,
Baizes, Broad-cloths, Coatings, Plains, &c.
Paints of various colors.
Balket fait in hoglheads.
Also on hand,
Madeira wine, very 'old, in pipes, hogftcad* and
quarter casks
Holland gin in pipes, firft quality
Anchors of different sizes
A few trunks of ladies French ihoes assorted
Silk nankeen, &c.
Likewise an assortment of Dutch goods, confining or
Ofnaberps, ticklenbergs, bed-ticks, stripes, chocks.
' pl.tilljt,, ravens duck, Hritannias, &c>
And for sale by the package OTrtv by, .
Thomas Iff John Ketland.
Walnut-street Wharf.
Nov. 15. . eotf
For Sligo and Killibegs,
The American Ship Nancy,
jjj Cuthbert Riggs, master.
Will fail with all convenient speed. For
freight or passage apply to
William Bell";
Who has for sale,
\ 4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well assorted
3 Bales Irilh Flannels, and 2 boxes Linens
»5 Pipes Brandy
Madeira Wine ; Indigo . Rullia Matts.
r Also,
A few barrels Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
OATMEAL, &c.
November 11, mwftf
FOR SALE,
7 HE SHIP MARY,
SAMUEL PARKER, Master,
t tons burthan. Apply to
JOSEPfT A"i\ 1 hotvt, ct-es-
If the MARY is not fold in a few days, lhe will take
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
Otfhiber 31.
Fpr Charter,
The Ship JOHN BUX KE L.T,
' AYRts Stocklev, Master.
An excellent live-oak and cedar buill
z rhip, of about 3000 barrels burtlfcn. Ap
ply 10 7# & Robert Waln -
Nov. * ' d -
For Sale, or Charter,
The Ship DIANA,
Samuel Pile, Master,
Burthen 105 47*95 tons register, built h
MfeiSC? Philadelphia in the year 1792, or lue oai
andredcedar, and wa, bathed 13 J
hasjufthad a complex out-fit, and m.y b. sent to fe,
at a very trifling expence.
For terms apply to
phiiip Nickltn Is Co.
Who have for fate on board said vtfel,
It calks of fine yellow paint*
9 boxes and 12 bundles of writing slates.
I box ink stands and note presses.
14 bales of fail canvass.
And on hand,
Imperial ") _ . _
Hyson, and, > TEAS.
Souchong J « r.
40,000 pieces Nankeens of the ftril quality.
19 tubs Quicksilver.
a chest; Bandanno handkerchiefs.
A few chest? Manchester goodswell assorted in Cor
dui'oys, thicksets, Ginghams, Muflinets, Dimitv»,&.<
3 boxes black sewing silk.
iBo crates Queens ware well assorted.
10 ton's Iheet lead.
Nii'.s assorted, flit and sharp points.
London Particular, Madeira Wine in pipei
London Market, > an( j hogsheads.
'New-York Market, J
40 pipes and 10 hoglheads Tenerifk wine.
8 tierces Snake Root.
, 3 o legs Mahogany.
Nov 7.
Dancing.
MR FRANCIS of the New-Theatre, inconjunflio
with Mr. BYRN, late Ballet-master, and principal dat
eer of Covent-Garden .Theatre, London, now of tl
New Theatre in this city, opened their Academy at M
Oellets Hotel, on Tuesday, December 13, where th<
propose to teach, in the mod new and approved method
Dancing in its various ufeful and ornamental branch*
Mr. Byrn's recent attention to the dances of Lc. Jo
and Paris will enible him to complete this branch .
education in his scholars in the most finifted ftyli
Favorite Scotch reels will also engage their paiticula
attention. ~
The davs of teaching for their young pupils are Thur
days and Saturdays, from three o'clock in the afternoc
till fix—and onTueldays & Thursdays, from fix ti.l nin
for those of a more advanced age. r~.tr T-
For farther particulars enquire of Meflrs. trine
and Byrtt, No. 70, north Eighth-flreet.
* Private tuition as usual.
PhiUdt phia, December »6, 179 6 - oaw
Fashionable Waistcoating.
Per
GEORGE DOBSON, No. 25,
SOUTH THIRD-STREET,
n Has received per the Diana, from London, <4IJ,
D Clouded ai.d ltriped Spanish Swanfdowa
'd Clouded Erminats and Molelkins') 7
>r Striped do. and do. Bat
d Figured Manillas 4
Scarlet figured ErraineU 6
1 » Printed FlorinetN a
" Do. Citonets and Caffimeres
Superfine printed Quiltings, newest pattern#
Also, per different arrivals,
A large and general assortment of Dry
Goods, q,
; H Suftab'e to the present and approaching feafnn. '
Novembsr 5. d'.t'
Insurance Company of North-America. }
THF STOCKHOLDERS in this company are defircd
to take notice that the second Tuesday in January, (being
the 10th day of the month) isth; day fixed by charter for
the election of twenty-five Directors for the enfjing year.
I he elediijn will be held at their office, and commence
o'clock, A. M. ... ftoi
Thcfubjcd if the bye-laws of the Corporation will be
submitted to their consideration at this meeting. .
EBENEZER HAZARD, Sec'ry '
ld Dec. 12. »hro[
To be Rented,
A Largo Vault and Cellar,
That will contain 2co pipes, iituate in Walnut
between Fourth and Fifth-ftreets. Alio a COACH
of HOUIjE and STABLE, with Stalls for five horses.
N. B. Goods Stored by the month. na
tc» Inquire of Benjamin W. Morris.
November rc l "'*''*
FOR SALE,
About 1,600 acres of Land,
WF.LL situated, laying on and between Marih .
and Beech Creeks, Mifflin county, Pennsylvania, in
four iVparate Patents. For terms ot sale apply to
Wm. Blackburn, to
"or No. 64, S»uth S'cond-flrset. thi
October 31. mwftf
SALT P E T R E.
— ci
A large quantity of Double-Refined Salt Petre for fe
sale at No. 25, Sautli Third-street.
November 5. 4 '
Insurance Company of the State of
Pennsylvania.
f THE Stockholders are hereby notified, that an elciSion
— for thirteen Directors to serve for one year, will b« held f
at the Company's Office, on Monday the 9UI January next,
at II o'clock.—And to the adl oi incorporation
a ftatcuwnt of the affairs of the company, will then be '
laid heiore them.
■> SAMUEL W. FISHER, Sec'y.
•to Pkiladclph'a, December 19, 1796. dt 9th Jan.
ske 7lnla3elpSiaand^ —
Road Company. C
A Meeting of the Stockbolde.-s for the Eleaian ot
a President, Managers, and other officers, will be
held at the-Company's office on Monday the 9th Jan
D'ext, at 10 o'clock. p (
By the Bozrd. y
uilt > WM. GOVETT,Sec'ry. sj
Decembers, 1796. lawtiitj.dt9 li j:
Impei-ted in the late arrh'-ds fr. /■ Europe and tie '
WeJl-lUies,
L- Holland Gin, in pipes r
Choice St. Croix Sugar and Hum 1
Martinique Molaff«s, iri hoglheads
Choice old I.ifbon. Wine, iu pipes and quarter-calks
London Particular & London Market Madeira Wine,
in pipes, half-pipes and quarter-cases
1 m Malm fey Madeira Wins, in pipes and quartec-cafks
°* lt Teneriffe Wine, in pipes
fr,e Kuffia & Flemith Sheeting and Ravens Du.-k, ia cases
' sea Window Glass, 3by so, in boxes
Coffee Mills and Straw Knives, in cslks
Mill Saws and Cross-cut Saws, in boxes -j
Also, on hand,
A few chests of Bohea Tea ; Jesuits Bark ; Affafcs
tida and Tapioca ; and a few bales of Colfaes,
Baftas, Gurrahs, Bandanna and Mullin Handker
chiefs, and a complete assortment of 5-4 and 6-4
Bjulting Ciloths.
For Sale by j
Pragers £ff Co.
o<3oberio dzwm&th ;m
/ For Ssle, /
By the Subscribers —In PENN-STREET,
6 C Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
""" Imported by the Ejgle.
' &c - V WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
Nov. 30 w&f
Elepant Brussels & Turkey Carpeting,
For sale by George Dobfon, No.4s,South Third-street.
ipes December 15. [
Women's Cloaks.
GEORGE DOBSON,
No. 25, South Third-street,
Scftf j^ as j u r( . c( -ived, per Eagle, Capt. fofdick, via I.on
don, an assortment of
Drab ( Cloaks trimmed with lur and
ftion r'urple and f ermine,
dan- p £ar l J
the December 15. ■
thay • Bank of Prrmfyivania, \sth Dec. 179 J.
hods, Stockholders are requeued to meet !
6 *' At the Bank onThurfday, the twenty-ninth instant, at (
I "r to o'clock ia the morning.
II 01 By order of the Board,
lyle. ROBERT RALSTON, Cafhiw,
9 th tem '
hurf FOR SALE,
r, At Whitefides' Tea Ware-House,
No. 09, North Second Street.
meis Imperial C "i' fon Skin-
Hyson, S Frdlli Teas. < Souchong,
"Voung Hvfon, i C Bohea
Dec. y. "
Just Arrived,
'Per fchoontr Daphne, Captain Morse, from Aux-
Cajes,
A Cargo of Sugar and Coffee.
Also, per brig Betfcy, Captain White, from the Ifte Sil
tf France,
7a Hoglheads, I puncheon, and ij emitters, of
Bataria Sugar
45 Hogsheads Pepper of Malibar
65,000 lb. Coffee S|
a3,a00 Cotton p ltt
4,0c0 Jndigo For Sale by ' £
F. Coppinger, d
U No. ail, South Front-street T
December ai j
Old Loftdon particular Madeira Wine,
Landing from on board the barque Eagle, Capt. Bates,
. and for sale by ROBERT ANDREWS, L
No. 86, South Wharves. *■
j November 49. eodtf
Cheap French China. —
: THE fubferibers finding it impcffible to supply their
store with any more China from France, the prices
being too immoderate in the mauufa&eries, give no
tke that thty wiH fell at prime cost the remaining
flack <hi fi.iiid, confiftiag of
Deffeft Setts, Dit
Tea-Table Setts Sm
Separate Cups and Saucers Dit
Groupes and Figures Dr
lt Alabaster Vases Fin
Looking Glades, in gilt fratnes, No
Beside» India Japan'd T-oilet Desks, Chairs, Tables
nad Quadrille PASQUIER & Co.' ]
No. 91, South Seeond-ftreet.
_ December ?th. ,ts
■■ " j
For Sale,
By J. WARDER, PARKER Co. pu
" An Invoice of Cordage, bui
0 Confiding of different sizes, from 11 inch cables down kin
to rope oT a inches, of different lengths: Imported in the
the {hip twist, from Hull, and entitle to drawback. fe«
Sept. 27. ot
— fca
NeV-England Rum, Salmon, Beef,
Chocolalß, Ritt, Bofion mould and dipt Caudles, a
Jr few qua ter-calks of Sherry Wine, a few barrels of ne;
Cvder, ind a few quintals of excellent Tibfe COD
FISH —far sale by _
- f Ezekiel Hall,
'f No. 4J, North Water-flrett.
Decenber I4*k» 179^-
jn —— "— ( | u
' d Erejh Garden, Grass and Flower-Seeds, p,
an Roots, tsfc. l s|
be This day landing from the Ihip Eagle, captain Fofdicl, ™
t from Loiidoa, _
And FOR SALE by J a
GOLD IHWAIT & MOORE, ™
" Wafamt and jj
A mofi capita! of
GARDEN, GRASS and FLOWER-SEED 3, da
of ROOTS, &c. &c. A
be Among which arc, as
" Five kinds /fparagus Threr lindi Crefles ai
Four Berecole Twelve Onion :t
Twenty-five Beans Thirteen Radilh
Six Beets Turnip te
lileven Biocol;: Fess 1
Twenty-fix Cabbage gix Sayoy e-
Six Carrot Four Parfmr ei
Three Cauliflower Twenty-three Melon fc
Five Celery Twenty-one Lettuce w
Ten Cucumber; tl
Common and lemon Thyme
Us Curled ltaf and Parsley
1C Pot Marygold Pot M:.rjoium
Balm Thyme Mangel Wuitzel
Leek Kail Shallots
Raps Seed Rye Grass Saint Foin Lucerne
r Red and white Clover Timot.iy, &c. Src.
With a curious collodion of the most efleemed
FLOWER-SEEDS and ROOTS,
Being the most exteufive ever imported into this city.
The above are from a capital Seedsman in London, and
are warranted frelh and good.
a ~ Printed catalogues may be had by applying as above, *
"» Dec. 17. dtf - 8
er- — li
Just Landing,
At South Jlrtctmhvrf, from en board the [hip Srcdg- p
ley, Captain Hodge, from St. Peterjlurg, j
L. The following Goods : c
Russia Sail Duck, firft quality. t
Do. Sheeting do.
Do. Diaper. ,
; Do. Huckaback.
' Do- Cralh.
Do. Mould Candles, 4, 5 and 6,"_to «he__ lb. of the j
'- Englilh fiae- . (
Do. White Candle Tallow. I
jrr Do- White Soap in small boxes.
t ' Do. Cordage of fine yarn.
Ravens Duck. '
—• 1 fin glass, ill and 2nd fort. (
Horse Hair uucurlcd. j
Russia Bar Iron. ,
Do. Hoop Iron. ,
Do. Nail Rods.
10 Tons Oakum and Junk.
■on- St. Feteifhurg Clean Hemp. 1
For Sale by
Philips, Cramond, & Co. ,
October 12-
Davis's Law Book Store,
— No. 313, HIGH-STREET.
GEORGE DAVIS announce* to his proteflionil friends,
=,£[■ and the Gentlemen of the Law, generally, through the
Union, that his lai« importation of BOOKS is now arrang
at ed, and ready for Sale, from a single volume is an entire li
brary, wiihout any advance upon his former exceeding low
prices, which folftveral years paik have in so fliftinguilhcd a
manner iccommended'ibem to notice.
em. Printed Catalogues combining the most extenfiv* collee-
tion cf thelateft triglifh ?nd Irilh Editions ever imported
into this country, are pabiilhed, and will be delivered giatii
on application.
c » Orders addrtffed to G. D. in writing fiom any Uifiance
(hall be punctually attended 10.
A number of 1 HUNKS sos Salr.-
ALSO, TO BE LET,
1 A convenient LOFT, iicar Maikci Street Wharf.
ov.B.
Wm. Holdernesse, No. 76,
HJGH-STXBETy
Has received by the late arrivals,
J Well Sthclcd j4ssoKTMtf/T vf
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
Haberdashery Goods,
Which he will fell, wholefole and retail, on the very
low eft terms ;
Amongji <wbicb art
Some elegant 4-4 and 7-8 Chintzes and CottOM, new
patterns
Ditto Fnrniture dicta
Ditto Dimity
Tamboured, Bo«k, afld Jaconet Mafliaa
Ditto in Gold and Silver
Ditto Neckcloths, very fme
Mantuas ef the filft quality
Silk and Cotton Hodery
Umbrellas of the firft quality, afTorted
lrHh Linens, very fine, and Table linens
Marseilles and Cotton Counterpanes ,
Rose Blankets affortedr—Ac. &c.
Odober a 6. d
For Sale,
By George Defchamps, No. 91,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels
and half barrels
Ditto Herring and Mackarel.
Smoaked Herring in barrels and kegs
Ditto Salmon, by the dozen or Gngle one
Dry Codfifh, from one ti> "fifty ketitils
Fine and nearfe Salt
Nova-Scotia and French Plaster of Paris, in the ftane
and ground, for manure and ftucco-woik
December I. if*.
. ' " For Sale,
' A capital (Uad'for bufinefs—rhat well known tavern,
the Ewe and Lambs, North Front Street, No. 333, in tha
Northern Liberties; a brick house containing nine fire
, placet, and ten roOnis i#ell Cnilbed ; good Cables and
chair-house, with a trame-houfe osi Water street ; the
building ftauds on four lots, seventeen feat front each, ma
a king a front on front-ftr*.t, thirty-four feet, and nearly
a thefinie on Water-street, and is one hundred and forty
feat deep from street o street, fubje& tojf 8. ios. eads
lot per annura, ground rent, this property is near the hay
- scales, and public docks, easy communication with the
Delaware waters, and advantageously Ctuated for bufineA
' of varicus kinds
f The above premises are now rented until December
next at £-171 per annum.—Enquire of lae Printer.
Dec. 11. §iwlaw6w.
CAUTION.
i. >
WHEREAS very lirge and heavy debts are
due and nn'inr ■**——-iiPC/iaatMit and
i of the city of Philadelphia, merchants,
trading under the firm of Blair M'GUnachan and P.
Moore, aild from Blair M'Clenachan in his separate
capacity ; to which, by the laws of the land, all the
joint ai well as Separate property of the said Oen'le.
men, is, and ought to be, liable. And \fherea«
it is clearly and fatisfa&orily ascertained, that mr.
Blair M'Clcrtacaan, of the [aid firm, has conveyed
away to sat. John H. Hvjlon, his fbn-in law, to hit
'> daughter, miss M'Clenachan, and to his son, Georg*
M'Clenachan, federal large and,.valuable real estates,
as well as coufidcrable perianal property, in the city
es and county of Philadelphia, in the county of Lancaf.
ter, in the county of Ncw-Caftle on Delaware, and
elsewhere, with a view, as it is apprehended, w de
,p feat the Creditors in the recovery of their just debts.— '
J9 This is, therefpre, to forewarn all persons whamfo*
>y ever, against the purchase from the fiid grantees, or
ir either of them, of any portion as the said real or per
>o for.al property, as the most vigorous mealbres will
ce without delay be taken to render the fame liable to
thejufl demands of the Creditors.
By order of the Creditors.
Thomas Fitzftmonj, "1
Philip Nicklin, r
Jfaac i'harton, r Committee.
H'i.liam M l Murtrre, I
Samuel IV. Fijher,
Philadelphia, December 17th, 1796. icth.J
TO THE PUBLIC.
nd THE caution introduced into the public prints,
warning all persons against j»urcbafiog from the
grantees of Blair M'Clenachan, any portion of the
— large, real and personal estates he conveyed away to
bis fon-in law and to his children the refalt of
j a deliberation had upon the fubjeft by a general and
numerous meeting of the cieditors as well of Blair
M'Clenachan and P. Moore as of Blair M'Clena
chan individually. It was no more than an execu.
tion of that trust confided in the fubferibers by
those creditors s a step which it would have been a
breach of duty and honor in them to have omitted.
The very statement of the fadt therefore must dif.
the pel the imputation that it was either " precipitate
or vindiflive." It originated in a desire secure
the property of the debtor at a fund for the pay.
ment of his just debts* It was fan&ioned by the
advice of council as a measure nectjfary to the fafety
of the creditors. If the advertisement has been
injurious to Mr. M'Clenachan he owes that injury
to his own unjuftifiable conduct, not to the sub»
fcribers who have merely published the truth ia
terms as mild as the f»A would admit, and wh»
mean te investigate in a high court of justice the
validity of those purcbafes of whinh Mr. M'Cle
nachan so confidently fpeskt.
The fubfenbert therefore are bound by a sense
of duty to the creditors in general to repeat their
caution against purehafing of those grantees or
either of them, and to extend the terms of it to a
the purchase from any other persons (if such there be)
m ?" ta whom Mr. M'Clenachan may have made similar
conveyances.
T* (Signed) T. FITZSIMONS,
P. NICKLIN,
ISAAC WHARTON,
"7, WILLIAM M'MURTRIE,
SAMUEL W.FISHER.
">ce Philad. Dec. 21, 1796.
63" Those printers who have h-en refuelled to
pubiifli the firft Caution, are defiredl to publish this
■ alft
-1 •'H£A TRR,
rHIS EV K NIN G, Tuesday, December 27,
Wijl be prefeiited,
A TRAGEDY, called
George Barnwell.
\ Thorowgood, Mr. JVarreH
Uncle, Mr. V Eft rang:
George BaAwelt, Mr. More ton
Trueman, Mr. Fox
®.iilit, Mr. Francis
■ "Gaoler, Mr. Morgan,
Maria, Miss L'Eftrnngc
Millwood, Mrs. Francis
I- Uc y> Mrs. Harvey
In a<sl I. a Song by mrs. Warrell.
To which will be added,
-A speaking Pantomime ( written by Garrick) called
Harlequin's Invaflon;
Or, The Tailor without a Head.
With the original music—'the accompaniments by mr.
Gillingham, with an entirely new Medley Overture
-by mr. Reinagle.
Harlequin, Mr. Francis
Mercury, (withfongs) Mr. Darley, jun.
Eorgt, Mr. MoretoH
Bounce, Mr. H r arren
Frontin, Mr. Blifett
Bog, Mr. Morgan
Simon, Mr. Wignell
Snip, Mr. Harnvooi
Abraham* Mr. Wurrelly jun.
Justice, Mr. Warrell
Crier, Matter Worrell
Padlock, Mr. Warrell, jun.
Dolly Snip, Mrs. Francis
Mrs. Snip, Mrs. DoSor
Sukey Chitterlin, Mrs. Harvey
Old Woman, with, a song, Mr. Darley
With a variety of magical changes and whimsical
-> transformations.
A Cottage Scene, .which changes to a Wood and
Care, in which is discovered the Fairy Groupe.
The Magical Bu(h which changes to a Tailor with
out a Head.
The Transforming CKairs, icc.
The whole to conclude with
The Downfall of Harlequin in the Realms of
Shakefpearc.
Tragic Muse, Miss OldMd
Comic Muse, -Miss Milbournt
t y On Wednesday the favorite Comedy called
the Child of Nature ; with (for the (econ'd time) the
new billet of the Bouquet, which was received with
unbounded applause—To which will be added the
Agreeable Surprise—Being intended for the Benefit of
the- unh -ppy Sufftrers by the late dreadful Fires at
Savannah.
Box, One Dollar twenty-five cents. Pit one Dollar.
And Gallery, half a dollar.
£3* Tickets to be, had at H. & P. Rice's tiook-ftore,
No. ea High-fltreet, and it the Office adjoining the
Theatre. ™===
Places for the Boxes to be taken at
front of the theatre, from to till z o'clock, and fr«rrr
lo till 4 on tlie days of performance!
The Doors of the Theatre will open at 5, and the
Curtain rife precisely at 6 o'clock.
Ladies and Gentlemen are requested to fend their
fervams to keep places a quarter before 5 o'clock, and
to order them, as foo» as the company are seated, to
withdraw, as they caHriot on any account he permit
led to remain.
V~IVAT RESPUBLICA!
COLLEGE-HALL.
Readings and Recitations,
Mural, Critical, and Entertaining.
Mr. F E N N E L L
Refpe*afuUy informs the Public, that
On TUESDAY EVENIKG, December 27, at fever,
o'clock, will be delivered
An Exvlanatqry Add*mss.
After which will be recited an Allegorical Poetry in
three parts, called
The CAVE or NATURE;
Or, A Piflure of the Virtues, Views, and Paffiwis,
of the Human Mind.
Occafioi.al admilfion tickets to be had of Mr. Ponlfon,
Jun. at the Library ; at Mr, M'Elvtc'i looking-glafs-flors.
No. 70, South Fourth ilreet; and at Mr. Carey's, Book
seller. Market-street.
On Wednesday, the 28th inft.
At 6 o'clock in the evening, will be fold -at pnblic I
au&ion, (if not before disposed of at private file) i
at the City-Tavein,
All that capital rrunGon-houfc, {tables, out-hoafes, &e. 1
and three contiguous traits of land situate on the Weft-fide
of Schuylkill in the toivnOiiji of Blockley and county of
Vhiladclphia, gtnerally known by the name #f Lanfdown,
-containing 199 acres lel perches more or lefsand a meflii
.age plantation and trait ol land in Blockley townlhip a- ,
jforela d adjoining Lanfdown, containing 64 acres one
perch'. V |
The premises are so well known as to need no particular
•description. Few feats in Amcrica can compare with
■Lanfdown for convenience and elegance ; it commands at
variety of rich beautiful profpeiU and is remarkably heal
thy. rms »ffale a. ill he made known by
PHILIP NICXUN, ~) Attornies in
and • > fa 3 to
ROBERT E. GRIFFITH, J James Greenleaf.
Dec. 12. §talth
A C A R 11.
If Itlonfeur G H. Sohii,
Who left Bordeaux the 20th June lalt, and arrived
1 at Boston ibout the middle of Attguft, in the schooner
Jane, is in Philadelphia, he is requeued to c>ill on
ji-teph Anthony & Co. No.. 5, Chefniit-ftreet, who
•will give him fomr information cf, importance.
December 14, 1796- $
FOR'SAL E,
be 'fact-failing schooner ORION;
Seventy tons burthen ; fifteen raoeths
old ; her frame is ot the belt of white
Oil.file is a'faithM built vessel, hancjfomely finilhed off
and well for.nd in every particular; is ready to receive j .
cargo on board, and can be put to sea without any ex- ,
pei.ee -on her hull, J'ailsor rigging : Ihe flows fix hundred
barrels; has a handfomc ca!.in ar.d ftcerage. and a half 1
deck which will low from lVventy-tive to eigluy barrels ; ,
has been newly caulked, graved and pair: d. For terms,
apply to BENJAMIN RHODES, !
1 At Np. 170, corner of Market a>.d Filth-streets,'
Or to the Captain on board said schooner at Meffft.
Willis and Yardfiey's wharf, adjoining Chefntit-ftreet
wharf; where there is for laie
Excellent pickled Salmon in barrels,
the bed of American Mcfs JJcef, and Ibme very excellent
Boston manufactured Chocolate,
December 26 S
v
LiSt of P&izss and Blanks in the
Wafpinglon Lottery, No. 11.
42th Days Drawing, December 17.
' No. Dolu Ao.' JJou. No Ltlt. No. tools.
67 14780 JJI77 36683
12& 890 646 S9l
148 10 15821 10 711 10
189 '1613! 26659 10 I *7 10
499 10 ioi ao *7399 7SO 10
1047 17790 38048
593 79* 35* "J
597 960 30021 10 246
3282 18002 066 470 10
35 r »*3 3 i °jß 39433 10
662 - 053 575
5122 10 1959 454 40393
558 19044 joi 420 ro,
691 10 #98 10 609 ia 483
6156 10 994 919 g J4
500 20343 3*l2* 4iojo 25
ed 434-10 309 10 iy6 ao
6ji 909/ 413
682 21073 76! 42377 10
688 106 10 33014 ie 427
ir. 705° 3*l 066 511
re **8 ,?66 10 076 595
3»3 784 541 10 - 622 2J
356 10 961 69S 43138
397 10 22246 728 10 901
687 10 249 9 s * 44376
8042 Jo <52 10 34044 10 944
343 23024 10 . 371 990
10686 10 097 847 45002
T1124 301 ,35041 10 807
12005 10 596 277 47998
414 44028 3C.7 48TIO
1317-8 10 287 406 123 l®o
3 01 457 718 59 186
4*B BS7 797 SB3 13
904 10 25025 924 4966.7
954 10 C 37 10 952
1475 1 058 10 36119
49th Days Drawing, December 19.
al No. Dots. No. Dols. No. Dots. No. Dob.
423 11195 10 24752 37614 10
id 1012 722 16113 10 38147
2543 12637 279 10 303
b- 679 13064 10 27097 39 01 3 *•
3635 " 776 10 528 390
4079 »4»16 871 631
861 15'53 913 40,80 10
50JI xo 337 28159 41067 so
051 *5 «97 650 4*469 >
336 10 16225 10 756 44166
709 10 678 30345 JO 366
874 9'5 10 ,32180 475 JO
d 612 a 17096 10 372 577 10
c 568 25 19164 10 n s si 9(4 10
h 626 782 10 905 45471
747 20049 ,33745 10 ;a3 10
if 764* 10 *1401 46135
692 JO 464 35071 7171
8097 10 22454 539 2700. 10
383 696 570 03s
7 6 ° »3*97 994 9iS
958 308 36670 25 48525
9049 359 10 37"0 10 80;
e 591 462 10 199
10857 a 4746 131 497 j; jo
CONGRESS of thp. UNITED STATES.
/
HOUSt OF REPRE^fNTATJV*!.
J Monday, December 19.
— Tvfr. (TrcLptacc vTi
Mr. Bourne appointed diftridt judge) appeared and
took his oath and feat.
Mr. W. Smith said that the bill to proride for
organizing, arming and difcipliniag the militia of
the United Stato was amonglt the orders of the
day. He wished that bttlinefs to be taken up, in
order to determine the principle, whether the mili
tia fhauld be continuedtipon it* present footing, or
whether it ftiauld be divided into two clafTes, viz. a
fcleift corps and a reserved corps, as contemplated
by the present bill. Until thiiquetlion Mas decided
, nothing cyuld be done. For his own part, he said,
he was ao military man, but he had made it his bu
siness to enquire inte and he found it
1 to be the opinioh of those well verfetj in military
matters, that the plan propufed by this bill could
not be carried iuto effect with fuccels. He wished,
' i however, the house to come to the deeifion. If it
was their wi.li to continue the militia upon the pre
sent plan, and »>t adopt tbc plan propofc J by the
bill, the fttft clause ®ould be Stuck out. This
would eonfiderably Ihortcß the business ; and as the
fefiion would be a (hort one, the sooner the house
, went into the bufttreftthe better; he therefore ho
ped the house would resolve itfelf iuto a committee
of the whole on that fubje&.
The house accordingly itfelf into a com
-1 mittee of the whole, Mahlfnberg in the chair,
when the fir ft fe&ioa being read, which is in the
following words,
1 Sec. 1. fie it enadled, Itc. That ftiom and sfter
' the p..fling of this aft, the militia of the United
States (hall be composed ofr all able bodied white
male citizens of the refpeflitve Rates, rcfidcnt there
[ in, who (hall, refpeiSively, be of the age of twenty
years, and onder the age of forty years. That the
said militia (hall be divided into two clafles, the fide
class to be denominated the fele& corps of the mili
tia of the United States ; the second class to be
denominated the reserved corps of the militia of
the United States. The feleft corps of the militia
of the United States (hall be composed of all able
bodied wfiite-male citizens, refpedli«ely, who (hall
be of the age of twenty years, and under the a(»e
of twenty-five years. The reserved corps (Hall be
composed of all able bodied while male citizens,
refptftively, who (hall be of the age of twanty
fave years, and under the age of_forty years : Pro
vided, that, in the choice of officers, either of the
felcft corps, or reserved corps, no refpeel shall be
- had to the limitations of age aforefaid, she forego
i ing regulations to be fahjett, however, to the ex
i emptioris hereafter fpecihed."
Mr. VV. Smith made a motion to strike cut the
firft fe&ioa of the bill. When the fubje& was for
' taerly under difcuflion a number of objections were
' made to this clause, particularly to the great ex
pence, to the inconvenience of drawing out a num
ber of people from their houses to form companies,
and other difficulties which appeared infti. mounta-
He hoped,-therefore, some fcher»e of amend
ing the present fyllem would be hit upon* and that
it might by such means be made a very good ene. c
He hoped his motion would therefore be agreed to. 1
fjg Mr. Dearborn fecorded the motion. He did it |
with the fame view which the mover had exprefled
Cot making it, viz. to (harten the bufinflt, by saving
the lime which a discussion of the fcveral pait* of
the bill would necefTarily consume, taking it for
granted, at he did, that the bill would not pass
The objection* brought againlt themeafure when i:
was fotmerly before the house, he thought fubftaa
tiall Great many parts of the bill before thtm were
not ndmiffible into a militia system. The firtt clause
held o*t an idea repugnant to that part of the coun
try with which he was acquainted. He meant the
fe!e6\ corps.—lf the firft clause was agieed te be
flruck out, the next motion would be to have the
bill re-committed.
Mr. Harper believed considerable difficulty would
attend the carryiug into effe& the bill proppfed.
Bat be believed alio that their choice was j>et'wixt
this difficulty and the total want of an effectual mi
litary system. He wobU submit it to the coi.fide
ration of the committee, which of thele alterna
tives should be adopted. It was dated that to or
ganize a feledl corps would be attended with great
expcnce. He believed that apy effectual fyflem
would attended with great expcnce. Whether
the military neeeffcry for the defence df our coun
try fliauld coubfl of a (landing force {whiclf- none
of them wilhed) er of a feledt corp*, »or of any
other kind of corps, great etpence would be in
curred It had been dated,.that to draw out fd
great a number of young people from their homes
and labour, to be inftrufitd in military duty, would
not only lessen the dock of labour, and consequent
ly of national wealth, but would a!lb have a tenden
cy to injure their moral*. If gentlemen contera
pUteb the period at which these persons would be
draws together, he believed the obje<Sio» with ref
pecl to labour -would vanish. It was fuppofei that
, 2 5> r 3 w «ltt in the tall, and the fame length of ,
time at some other season would be enough for the
purpose. And it was well known that there were
f«afons of the year when lahoreti might very well ;
be (pared for two or three weeks—and if it were
only fur »ne week, it would be better tLat none. H
With refpedl to morals, little apprehension needed '
to be entertained on that head. It was not con- 1
templatcd he said, to bring them into very large en- '
campments, nor intfi towns, to keep them long so- '
gether, or that they should be free from redraint or '
authority, being, he said, under military order and '
discipline, they would have no time to run into ri- '
ot or disorder. He believed, therefore, that these
objections against the proposed bill were r.ot fuffi. j 1
ciently weighty. That the present fydem was very j J
defective, they had abundant evidence from military i 1
men, from repeated communicatiot s from the Pre ; '
fident on the fubjeft, and Jiom an event not very <
remote U heu necessity ealled out the militia, when j
it was seen that they were more indebted to the ia- ; '
dividual patriotic spirit of our citizens than to our '
militia laws.
It then the present fyfttm was aot adequate) it C
mufl be altered. How was this to be done. ? Could '
it be done as the old fy*em flood? He believed ]
not. It, said be, yeu will not arm the people, and
funje£t them to military duty, what wnuld be the '
efoft of a militia ? It would prove that inefiVAual J
r up tft t iea of a'n eSr&aal mili- 1
i tia, orabindon the prefentdyftem. This brought '
them to bili before the commute#, which proposed '
r a new fydem. Whether the present manner ot mo- 1
{ difying the business be the right one ; whether 1
r all persons between 18 and 25 fhali be included,
1 or whether any other regulation would be prefer- 1
. able, it was for the house to decide ; but he said t
r fomethiiig of the kind proposed must be adopted, c
i or all iaeas of 11* ional defence must be given up. t
1 Gentlemen frnm some parts of the Uniou were not so c
i tl.iki.igly impressed with the necessity of this mea- c
, furc, as were others. In the Eallern dates he knew c
. that the whole body of th« militia sould ealily be t
t brought into aSivity ; but when the fame rule was t
r applied to a country thinly fettled, a regiment was d
| spread over twenty, and in fume inltances, f«,ty .
, miles fqiitre, and io such they could not be r
t properly trained. Admitting that the picfeiu fyf t
tcm is wholly impracticable where tl/e Settlement' is ii
: thin, it became a question whether the fyttem pro- v
( poled in its stead would be injurious to the more t
: thickly fettled pans of the couqtry. in the a
; cittern ftaies perhaps iiime additional burthen a
. would be laid upon the people, and some inconve- r
nienccs felt, but wpuld these be so great as were now t
felt by other parts of the country ? He believed not, ii
aud the system ricommended would have the ad- I
, vantage of. being every where practicable. r
With those jmpreffions, it was impoffibie he should t
agreeto diikr'but tins clause. He hoped it would t
■ be reiained, and thai the bill would be discussed a
I thro*ghfcut, as.be was couvinccd n» oiher system ii
: could )t>e reducedito practice. P
Mr. Sitgreaves said he kad sot the honor of a si
feat'ioihat whi'n thig_f>t(»jccf was so --acrly undei t
: dituf!ion ;he wn's therefore but partially acquaint- v
: ed with it. With ilii (fate of Peniiiyl- I
vania, he believed all concursvd iu opioion, that 1
■ there was an-abfolute necefiity as some new arrange- t
: ment to give efficacy and spirit to the military fyf- ti
; tem. No on« v he said, cojsld doubt the braveiy u
or patiiotic spirit of our-ctuzc'ns ; but he always
underflood that bravery was Dot fufficynt • p
if it Veto, they had better tl'fcard o'ur ipiliij. fyf. \
tem altogether. JJut if it wai true that ditciplifle ti
was the life and foul of an array, id t»as<their duty w
to meet with firmnefs all diffi.ultics which ik. v.
the way. If thisthfiipline cSET3 only be acquired tt
by mean«o, some mode like proposed i : . tiir c
bill before thenv'neither trouble or cxpenoe (houUl /
prevent them Tro.» the bufiusi*.— -v.
He said, it was aot by calling men togeiLei a jay w
or two in theycar'that discipline \i#t to beatuin- >I<,
ed, but by some such plan as the prefeat. He muU li
therefore, hear tfionger objr(fti»ii« againtt the' mca- g
sure than had vft been urged, befone he cttuld vote -p.
for striking out the clause in -^ueftion.
The bill before them, Mr. Sitgneaveg said, was oi
the system of Baron Steuben. Ke knew this tns f
a favorite fyllca with the citizess of this slate. It a <
was said there were dates ia the Uaiou in which ihe at
militia laws required no amendment ;if so, he wish- tf
cd gentlemen from those Hates ivoulj co«m»nicate pi
to the cotataittee the means which had bceu used to
it attain this >.er/e<3 Rate, iha''tstr militia of themid
:d die aad Southern itaiet might be put upon a bet
lg ter footing. If not, he (hculd not cowfent to p«t
of- with the plan before them.
Mr. Henderfon wi&cd to have the militia put
■ J upon a refpednble fouling, at much as any taer&ucr
of ttie co»mit!ee, but was of opinion, tint th«
lyttern proposed by the bill under con(ideration
,- c wauid not hare that effed—He hoptd the motion
ts (tiike o,ut the firß fedion might prevail, as t ] le
principles it coataiu<rd, were to his mind very u b-
jedianable.
>e Mr. H. obferred, that in a republican govern*
. meat, the burtheus of »«vei iimem, (of whichihe
Id miiitity are the molt irksome,) ouaht to be diltri
i- buted in as equable a degree as poffiblc among the
citixenfthis would not be the cafe if the fyftein
i- proposed was' carried into effed—He observed,
c- that the inequality of the burthen upou the feiect
»- coi ps, as contemplated by- the bill now under cohfi.
r- deration, must (Irike us forcibly, when we coaiider
the class of citizeus that is to b«ar it—This corps,
n is to be composed of persons from the of 20,
* t» 25 years, perhaps not more than one fifth part
i- of the number of citizens able io bear arms, of
ie this number, there will be many that will pay a l e .
y gal equivalent rather than render perfonai fervtce,
>- he supposed, for the fake of calculation, one fourth
d part, then fays Mr. Henderfon, there will be left
■ 3 three fourths of one fifth pait of the whole »um
d bar of' citizcns able to bear arm*, that must (land
- as a bulwark of defence for the Union, making a.
1- bout every sixth man, and those of the most indi
- gent part of the community—He was of opinion
e that it would not be sale tor government to depend
- npon them, detached from the reft of the tailitia,
t that they would be unequal to the defencc of our
f country ia cafe of emergencies.
e
e He viewed that part ef the fyftera, which relatea
[| to the calling oat of the feled corps, any given
c Ipace of time, for the purpose of fcqMiriaff rartvt*-
-rydifcipUue, oFTor training of them, as unconfti
j tutioaal. Mr. H. observed he had Bot the confti
_ tution before him, but he would venture to quote
. from memory the words theieof relative to the
. fubjed now under confederation—They ate these,
r " The Congress Ihali have power to provide for
J organizing, arming and disciplining the militia,
. reserving to the states, refpedively, the authority
e ( of training the militia, according to the discipline
. , prcfcribed by Congress." Here the po.etruf con.
, grefs is confined to certain objeds, and cannot be
. extended to efcibrace the meature proofed by the
, bill, vix. that of training the militia.
Mr. Her.deifon thought the measure very excep
tionable on account of the great cxpcnce that
would attend it—Tire feled corps, he obfefcred,
would not be put into motion fit for service, :•
t contemplated by this bill, under the expence of be
j tween two and three million! of dollars, and it
j will require the annual expence of between three
j and four hundted thouland dollars, to keep up the
corps, according to the calculations tie had mi V
j which have been founded on the fuppofni
the feled cot pi WimlH (-nntai.i
tnouiand men, officers included, and to e
t out fifteen days yearly) for the puipofe o!
; ing military discipline'—He would not vai. I or
the accuracy of his calculations, but would p
to fay that, he had not exaggerated.
i The measure, Mr. H. said, was obje; . s
• upon anothei ground—lt is but a (hart tir - ■. e
1 the general government had by law aboil
1 old militia system and eftablilhed a new »
■ ti«n of the piilitia— By this law tlis offict c
» deranged from the major-general, through ;
different grades, down to the loweit ran ,
companies have been formed, and all the 1 . r*
aewly eleded—a large proportion v of cavil; v. was
takeu into the organization—companies o ;ra
1 diets, infantry and artillejy wefe to be el si '
—How far this law has been operated upco gene
rally he could not determine, but with tc.'ard to
the Sate he had the ironor to represent he be!ie>ir-'.
it had been carried into complete effect, DHt vol
without giea: expence to individuals—He thought
tlie~mi!itix'ot New-Jersey was upon a very refped
able footing, a fpint ejjiuliitioii liad oeeu excited
among them to appear well in their military cha
■ rader. And shall we, said Mr. H. difcourarr e
thisfpirit? He was of opinion the proposed fyllcivi,
if carried into operation, would effcdually do so.
Besides, the several Kates have scarcely had tinie to
regulate their fy Items agreeably to that organiza.
Hon, and the militia time to fettle down under
thear regulations, and fiiall we again disorganize,
aud dVunge the whole ? He hoped not—lt would
»n his opinion add greatly to the agitation of the
public mind, whish «Sl already, upon other occa
sions, conliderably excited. He observed further,
that it would argue such a want of ability ia gol v
vcrnmcut, as he wished miglit never be exhibited.
Hebeiioved l.is cbnftituents were well fatisfied witb
tite ptet'ent fyitem, or with the genjral principles
thereof, and that tbe militia »t present was equal
to any demand which the government t;ould liavo
upou them.
* ; HC W u T u r - ha , vißS the <"»"<■
Pxijjry, he mould for his patt prefer,* militia ofth<j
*° a m "<"a of the /rtw—Make it the inte.
••ft -f the citizens, Mr. H. by good u<l
wholesome laws to exert themselves, and tcj»a»
- well that Opo,me system, govern,
mem wauld at *1] nines have a force equal to the
he gentleman from South Carolina,
(Mr. Harper) iwd allowed that the pteftm fyitem
-was pradtcable in the must populous states ; ami he
wouid aik, if it were (..adicablc in the moftpoftu
,oui P" ts tte U"!"". why those pans fn .uld're, J,
li.-rqwiftr tht'jr cuflomr, and iherakhtl ro ' \
gicat incoiucnience, to accommodate a small pro.
•portion of the citizens, and they widtly difpe.fed
over the country ? Or why rtiould the convenience . ' "
c* the greater, g« c way t 8 ;ij it „f > Mr .
ttendeifon contended that this argument went
agaiult the meafare which the grutlcaian himfejf
1 aCiwrvced. He fliould tberefoie be for iirikiog out
J the ledion, and for endeavouring to amend tijc
Iprcfciit fyitem.
[ Dcia/e tg ire continued. J jKPhiladelphia,
' —= —= f r
TUESDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 47, 1796.
~ > '
rot*- » j 1 v 1 lit u,
roK : - < J <•' a.
PRESIDENT i>t| £
. ano ■* - 1 -. ;> - ,J * ,£• -3 s-4 m
1 -■ s «
6~] " t'' 4 6 f 1
Massachusetts, 16,1.3 - ' 1 1
Rhode-Island, 4 4 ot
Connecticut, 94 J at
Vermont, 4 4 o
Jjew-York, .nit
New-Jffey, - •- 7 7 „ 5
Pennfylvinij., . ™
D«laware, 3" 3 j | 01
uMarylaiid, 7j 4, 4I 3 2
1 'iMtJIj „ 1 ar
Kentucky, „ d<
Tmneflee, -
North-Carolina, I 111 6 1
South-Carolina, S 8 )"
Georgia, u
Total, 7i 59J?a3'i5 * 5 : 3jt 211
In North-Carolina, one rot* was given for Charles ,r
•Pinckney, and three for Judge Iredell. a]
Extract of a letter from Alexandria (Virginia) g
23d instant. ol
«' We were under cvnfiderable alarm here lad ti
night from a fire which broke out in a frame build- u
ing nearly in the centre of the town, which was tl
happily extinguiihed with the lofi of that building
only. At one period it threatened deftru&ion to tl
a cenfider&ble portion of the weahhieit part of this b
place." ts
— a
The following instance of savage brutality equals
the ilioft atrocious a<3s of cruelty, which ever Rained ft
the annals of history. The prodigeouseoDccrn which n
rtbe Frenchiliipla.y_icir the lives of their
fellow eitiaens, exhibited in this inftaric*, & by v
parte in threatning the total deltruAipn -of Pavia if ! <
one Frenchman was killed, Ihews that thele tender ' e
hearted people to monopolize to themftlves the ri
pleasure of deflroying each other. Americans will ei
learn, by these fraternizing arts, what they are to ex- j t
ped\, if the French troops Ihould ever get footing uu- a
<jer any pretence in this Country. r
FRANKFORT, Oft. t. L
The borough of Sauerfctiwabenheiru, iu the Paliti
nate, 011 the 18th ult. a most dreadful ''
fate. The French office* who commanded at Obe- g
ingeiheim, after-the fcirisifh which took place on the ai
37th in the vicinity of MuiU, ordered tour inhabi. t<
of that place to be b ouglit before him. He ac- t |
e'uled them of having fired oft the French, which was
Ijot true, condemned two of them to be (hot 911 the f '
ijiot, ordered the borough to b» given Up to pillagefor '*
ioutf and afterwards to be fct fire to in every
quift-er. A ftrpng detachment of his troops formed rr
a lane round the pla'e to prevent tbe infiabitants from tl
ieiVing it, and in a Oiort time th« borough was con-
Verted into a heap of ashes. Thefate of the NUnfor-- [.
tunatc inhabitants is not yet known, but k null be „
highly calamitous.
.. . > d
Mr. Ff-NMO,
In a few ffiort p.rigriphs, cniMrti; Tnformatio>{?*~ "
printed in this evening's paper, three things appear : p
MisRiPRtscNTATioN and "Calumny., c
IcvoraiiPj; as will appear the bad Grammar in C
the fentenccs. MisaaexEssNTATiON ,
ended perverlion of a clault in the Conftitu-
United Statet.
. : v<Vj as the author of "Informationwho
••ntly levelled his fliafts at fcveral of the
■• kit. - of Philadelphia and who has published
■i . .c is to te I d.fig>ung ai.d mterejiiri
juiii ..iji! Truth.
1 - • • 1796- v
DRICKSBURG, ( Vir.) t)ec. t O .
T" e i.swing Address to the President ol the tJni
was, on Saturday the loth inft. agreed up
■ar. ■ oufe of Delegates of this state, nem. con
ORGE VVashin6tom PreflJent of the
United States.
ive in an affe<9ionate address to the "People
e"d States, declined a re-election to the chief
of the nation, to which you wouid hare
:Ci' c illed by the public voice 1 the General Af
irginia wculd be unfaithful to the feelings
iftituents, and regardless of their own, if
y beheld an event long deprecated by y«iur .
-ens While they deplore the refblution,
wticn . deprive the nation of its firft hope, they are '
unable to ieprefs those sensations of gratitude and ef- c
teem arifmg from the profpeft of her beloved citizen's t
return into the bosom of his native* state, and c
which services, precious as your's, excite in every ,
brenft. On a review of the whole tenor of your life,
fq strongly marked bv wisdom, valor and putriotifm,
they te.-l themselves' ftiinulateti to bestow upon you the
belt rev<ard that freemen can give, and the most grate
ful a mi'd like your's, can receive. And ihcy have a
plejfmg 3d firm atTurance, that therr posterity to the
most rem „• generations, and the friends ol ti-ue and
.genuine I <:rty and of the rights of man throughout ■
the worla, and in all succeeding age*, will unite in the
acclamation y, hile with one voice they dcclare, that
you lvave deserved well of your country. I
_ " To this permit tham to add their fervent fupplica- (
tions te Heaven, that you may long rontinue to ei.joy |
thole blessings whish you have been lo inftru mental in 1
procuring to yor country,and in that repose which |
yuu have always facrificed iu obedicswe to the v;ill 1
of your nation, that you may poftefs that heart felt
fat'ufaflion of beholding its happipefs and prosperity
Jncreafe under the. tufpiccs of that liberty, and of tlfat
government, whici your valour and wisdom have so
efTentially contributed lo cllablilh and maintain."
The speech of Govetmor Vanderhorjt to the le- 1
giflatu'e of South-Carolina, containing much poli
tical wisdom and man ' truly federal and patriotic
fentimenti, we hare plenfure-in giving some «xtra£li
tlierefrom. It is much to be regretted hy the ■
friends of our union that such a chief magiflfate
ftiould be about to retire from his office.
" The iconftitutional r'ght of Congress lay
and collet taxes and duties, import* and excifee,
to pay the debts and provide for the common de
fence and wcltarc, has been hitherto very moderate,
ly exercised, and has extend d littfc further than
commercial imports and duties on imported articles.
But it eaunot fee afcertaiued hew soon future exi
gencies and necefiiiies may call T>r other tefources
and l»ad to more dirtdl taxation, in spite of all
that fltift economy *nd prudent management which
k&ve pervadtd t»cr)r departmem of gorernaient.
We (liould, therefore, endeavor to anticipate that
pen'od, place ourfelves,-by a timely diminution S
t.t our state dci>t f in a fi-.uatioo to answer and de- tc
fray' with suitable alacrity nnd ability, our pr»j»or-
Honor taxes to the general governrncßt, and not ft
pcirait the pressure of- tßeoi, coojjerdting with a In
heavy ft.te debt, to be th"e Usrce «f difaffeftion si
and difcontcnt towards that "utu'on from which so si
, ma*y prosperous coufecjuences hare already result- is
ed, ajid on whi. hive mull continue to depend for ra
every political bleifing and fecutity, "
Ihe events of the-preleot war, raging among ft
other nations, have evinced JU f what high import- g
ance to the peace and ptoiperity of the American
plates, and tq averting frqm th(;m war, the c<
f fcourgeiof the human eftablifti- w
ment and lupport *f an irovern- a
ment. - 'i- g-■
While nations have Wren mvolyed in thefiferceft
and bloodicfl contests that have e*er aifiiae4 and
desolated the world, of whom we had
treaties of amity and commerce [ with'others wete
in the habits of i»mmeicial intercourse;
it was extremely difficult to avoid being ilravvn into f.
a participation of their warfare.. „
'• Ihe maintenance of freedom from all foreign e,
, influence, wisdom to difce»n, and Srmacfs to resist lc
all the arts and cabals of drfigHtog emiiTaries; a n
sacred regard to the piighfed faith of treaties, a ri- v
gid adherence to the laws of nations, and Ready
observation of the ri-ht» and obligations of n«u- p
trality, were elTentiallv requilite, to avoid giving y
umbrage to the belligerent powen, and exciting *
their resentment and enmify. 'h
" This wife conduift and jitft policy have hi-'
therto not only saved us from all-the horrors of war,
but have enabled lis to reap abundantly the advan
tage* which may result to commercial liatioas from
a state of neutrality. \ >
; " While violent commotions and rudeftorms have
I furionfly assailed, and shook to th.ir cefitje, and a
menaced the subversion of old and flvuridiuig - em- t
wut i'»»anliDc liiiitjL-luiKe been grammar fol.idi- c
ply and liability, and have rapidly progrelTed to opu* z
. lence and grandeur. Could that conduct, and those
: ruie 3 and regulations of the executive of the Ui>it
i ed .states, atchievmg such great and salutary ob
• je6ts, have been so unifoimly and firmly adopted
and executed by the separate governments of the 0
United States ? S
" This happy expetience ought to impress inde- '
[ hfcly oa us alj, the expediency of uaiou a 'id of a
■ general efficient government, ard how impolitic "
t and it would be for any individual Sate
■ to enter iiiui any measures, that may interfere with f
; the ftnenl-fyftem, or prevent that cordiil and fti-e- c
[ nuous conceit and co-operatiwn, which mult give 1
to u due a&ion and energy. v i
" The general government of the United States,
i mud be to that of particular Hates, as the fun to
I the planets, the centre of their attra&lon and mo
tiuu, around whice, although within their own or- 1
hit*, they mult iticefTantly revolve, receiving, re-
flcitirig, and dtfiu&ng warmth, energy, and fplen
<lor..
" " The ihland navigation and pnbHa roads claim,
*'.d «iv tuiiLlto-ro; youf i».K m.iniiimi anil warm
: patronage. The gieat piogreli mads towards the
. completion of the canal belwecn the Santcc and
> Cooler rivcis, and which, fii all probability, will
• be fiiiithed in the course of the en'lViing jear, with
its other extenfivc benefits, promises vail advantages
, to ,the agriculture and commerce of the wettern
B parts of the Hate, and n#t only evinces the pra£li
i cability of fmiihr ones, "but points out the expedi
<i ency and utility of making navigable the rivers and
impioviiig the loads leading thcicto.
*' In the difculion of-thefc aud all other matters
which may be the fuWjctU of your deliberation and
debates, I trult that yout seal will tie tempered by
candor, and that your minde will continue free of
the fpuit of party, or any improper jealousies.
c 1 need not more than remind you, that in thf
abrogating o> altering of old. systems or law*, great
e care and are r;qnifite j and that as
■f in I.ovations aie Ireqnently full of danger, and fel
e dom to be produced witlwut disorder, they ought
- not to be rashly attempted, or upon flight grounds,
• without neceftity, or very important reafons^
r " I also heg leave to bring to yout frequcut rceol
ledion and ebfervation, many of the important po
e Heal truths and salutary maxims contained in the »d
--- drcf*, which our great and good President publifh
s ed to hi* fellow-citizens, in declining to become a.
d candidate foi the Ptefideutial chair, announcing his
y tefolution to retire into the walks as private life."
?» N . .
1, — .
BY THIS DAY's MAILS.
NORFOLK, December 17.
Extraift of a letter from Portsmouth, ( ingland) dat
e ed o<ft. a, to a gentlcrrran in this town,
it " A small America# flopp having made feverai trips
to and si em this port; her trequent faili.ig, and so I
soon returning, excitrt-d fom-; fu'ipicion, that (be might
y be the conveyancer of improper inteligence from hence
n to France i and one of their crew'having made a depo
h fition of their frequent trips from hence t» France, and
II that a perion as daily expeeled.on board who always
It went aud returned with the velfel, a proper o|scer was
y appointed to watch her motions, and ob'ferve who
it went oft board her ; a genteel drcfleii man was this
so mornmg seen to go on board h*r, and the tefl'el im
mediately got under WeigM ; and th* man making his
repbrt oblerved,the cuftora-houfe offi
e- Cir took, bgats, and boarded the sloop, juit as Ihc was
i. cleatiug the mouth of the harbour ; and going infrr
; c the»cabin," found perion who had jujt gone on
bofcrd, and wbo, from his appearance,- ftemed to be
jult come from a joarney, in it, with, a small trunk by
)e -liim f. which, on opening, was found full of papers ;
' theft it is said, frora those which "have been opened, i
are of a very important nature, aud that there is no
ly doubt o? his being a lpy to the French ; as the sloop
:f tfasbeen to and from this pjrt no less than fifteen times
c . in the course of about three months, with only an in
terval of about fix diys rich time. It is said on his
being he attempted to tear some pipers
1D Iving by him, but was prevented ; he wis bro't on
:t * (hore about iz o'olock, aud immediately sent off for
;i- London, with the two officers who apprehended him.
e* —
■11 NEW-YORK, Deccmb-r 26.
:h A late Charleston Paptr fays, " There is 1 letter
it. in town from Georgia, which fay* that it u con-
I \ £■<. -
• *
Sdently asserted, in the Florida*, that the JCiiig of 1
i Spain hat ceded thole Provinces, and. 1 t iH ifiana,
to the republic of France. '
It is an undoubted fact, that fire was fen to a j
ftsfile in Courtlandt ftrett on Friday nij rhit, and (
1 had made fume progress before ft was dii'civered.
1 An attempt was also made the fame nig); t to set '
' fiie to a frame building in William street. TheVe |
is iiq reason to doubt, it is said, the eyri Iflace of \
malicious intention. The citizens have occ tSan sos I
double vigilance, at this time, when high winds, *
I severe cold and dry weather, would render the pro
grefi of fire irrefiftable.
i A young {rgHtleman hy the name »f Wh ifce, has
commenced a dramatic career on the Bolit iti stage I
• with great eclat (fee Button head.) If t fee ac
■ count of his firft performance is not too flat teriug, *
he must prove, in time; a second Garrick. ,
I ■' - I •
1 BOSTON, Dfctember 17. ' > t
1 riTE.ATK.ICAI..
• On AVqlnefday evening the tragedy of Dt ittglas. J
; Mr. White; '* yqteg gentleman of a refpi -S&able j
> family in this town, -tirte but in the cha rafter | ;
of Young Norval. The extreme youth, g« Bnieel I*
' ►tftication, e*tchfi.v»eorine£tioii*, and promifin ijf ta- *
t lcata or the new performer, had drawn togetl *cr a *
i more general audience of critics, than h\4 be Me-l
- vcr col!cf?cd at an\ firit appearAnce. ' f
' Ps Mr. White, as an actor, we (hall not t> at S
• present, hazajd au opinion' ,4 but considered frs a
f yo»Rg anSatiur, whp, '• from tht free cottrfe 0) £
> iffViated dy a j«3ieious and elegant t «fle £
has eniiftedfrfimfelf under'the banners of Thefpis,* B
"J- 1 —; —Ti». wonder ful, G
t " That aH invifiUe itiftinft fliould frame him K
"To eloquence unlearn'd ; judgment untanght; A.
/ " Genius, K
' / '• That wildly grows in him, but yields a crop,
K As if ithad been fow'd." E
e The applause he received was alnoft inceflant; 5
I and of the pafl'ages, in which he amply deserved it,
• the citatiou woufd be letigthy. One, however,\ »c
- omit ; aus} J&e peculiar animation, energy J, B
• and expreffio*, with which he pronounced B
e " Did I not star te freeze thy (hallow vaUr, E
" Acd make thee fiuk too soon beneath my sward„ K
" I'd tell thee—what thou art—l know thee well,,*'
Were received by the audience by repeated roun*! Ik N
, of enthulialtic approbation.- Mr. White, .in. hi is 1J
general conception of the character, was eriticall y. ,
chatte. His voice is firm, clear, and fonororss ; id
a his peifon youthful and genteel. PofTeffed of f® p
c many stage requisites, he is, at present, irr the £
e flower of promise ; and ii requires no aid frot n
prophctic keti, to predict that a few years experi
ence will render him an honor to his profjfion, and j"
tl»e pride ot the American g
; ———e
oj NOTICE. '
The Creditors of Mr. James Green leaf are requefte i '
to meet at the City Tavern on Wefltwfday evening th ; ;
18th. inftast at 9 o'clock, to receive the report ot the- 5
Committee appointed a; the lafl.uieeting.faf th« pvr
iiofr of obtaining a of tha*"6«litieifi4k's ,
accounts.-^
1, Philip Nicklin
if ' . Pratt > Committee.
Ie 1 hot. W. Francis j
Dry. ifi , ?
d — C
d '' iV A N T E D, ' S
h A M U SiCI AN,
rS WVo is canaUle of conipofing .Iccoißpanimuuts ti» .
II Song: for an Orcheflra. He must have no other en- ,
i- jagcnient as a compefer, Enquire at the Office at' this
i- Paper..
,d December zt. . 3 £
Vv'afliingtori tottery. 1
J [" — i
ty TICKETS, wai'ranted undrawn, may be purchased or J
jf **chaalg«d for prizes, at th* Office, No. ,47, Qhcfnut- .
freet, where a cojrcA Wumc'rieal Book iiAcpt foe publi: ]
infpaAion. Alio Canal Lottery Tickew for sale ta ex
•hanged for prizes di awn iu the Wathington Lottery, Of
yvhich tlic 48th and days return* arc receiveda
Th» Bafinefs of a Broker on as uiul.
*,» A SHARK in the NEW THEATRE to be fold (
" K on r«tfonal>K- terms. December u ttstf
8, —
New Books. *
!l - — n 1
°[ Robert Campbell & Co. "
j,_ No. 40, South SecondJlrttl, . d
a Are just opening a large and extensive afibrtment of
. ' the latest and bell Loodon editions, among which r
are the fallowing new, valuable and fcai-ce Books.
Colle&ion of State Paper#! relative ta the present wars
between Eqglaad and France, containing authentic copie
of all the treaties, proclanaationsi Ac. made
by the different powers, 3 *ols. % va.
Stedman's History of the American Revolution, a vols*
4to, with elegant maps, pktes, &c.
I Fergufon'j history of ths Roman republic, 3 vol 4 to.
H- ; Britilh Poets, 75 Vols, with the lives by Dr. Johnson.
i Same bbok, 44 vols.
| King of Prussia's works 20 Vols, tvo French.
P s ; Megnot's futvey vt the Ottoman Empire, by Hawkins, i
| 4 vols. t
ht Mirabeatf's fpeeches-in the National allembly, tt unfitted
ce by White, 1 vols*
10- Douglafs't travelling anetdotes.
nd Secrt t hillory of Charles 11. a volt.
ys Britilh Plutarch, 8 vols. 12 mo.
as Courtreau's ©onfeffions. 2 volt. .
ho Venya's history of Califrruia, a vols, Svo.
lis Andcrfon's account of China, i vo.
(1 . Beaumont and Fletcher's works, 10 vols. Bvo. ■
,| 3 Ell's journey thro' 1 sandert, Brabant and Germany to
Switzerland, Svo.
A3 Wycdhams's travels thro' Europe, 4 vals. Svo.
[(n Smyrnove's fumy as the Ruffian Empire
Forfler's northern voyages, 8 vo.
, Varieties of literature, 2 vol. 8 vo.
Groiier't uefcription of China j
y Wefton's Universal Botanist, 4 vols. 8 vo.
8 ' Elegant extraifts in Natural History, t vols. Bvo
: "> Guthrie's history of the world, 12 vols
no D'Anville's compendium of ancient geography, 2 vols. 1
°P With maps, &c. '
les Blackftone't cwmmentaries on the laws of England, by 1
in- Christian, 4 vols.
his John Hall Stephenfon's works, 3 vols, "Svo.
ers Langhora's Plutarch, 6 vols, 12 mo.
on Beauties of the Drama, 4 vols.
for Muller's lllulltation ot the Sexual fyttems, I volt. Svo.
im. with plates >
Priestley's leAures on hiftarjr, a vols. Bvo.
- Chambert'sDiikionary of arts aui feleaces, by Dr. Rees,
5 vols, folia. t
tcr Beawe's history' civil, caramarcial, pohticaland Htersry
on- of Spain and Pcrtagal, s volt, it 01.e, folio,
> W
3* * Xif * /
: M*nflein'» rarme/rt of Russia, from 1717 to 1744, iritlk
, mi P"> plans, &c. 4to.
Farrett's voyage to New Guinea, with plates, 4to.
Wright's travels thro' France, 1 vols, tvn
' Douglafs «d the antiquity of the earth, 4to
1 Clavigero'shiftory ef Mexico, translated by Cullea, i vob
• 4to* plates.
■ Condorcet's life ofTurgot
. Maretti's travels thro' Cyprtjs, Syria, Jtc 2 vol*,
i Lavater's cflays on Physiognomy, 3 vols. &\
WnrW DifplavM, 20 vols. bound in 10.
Memoirs d* Dumouricz.
, Foundling hofpifal for wit, a colle&ioa of fugitive picces,
10 vols. !2mo.
Letters from Paris in 1791 and '91, With a reprefsntatiea
of the capture of Louis XVI. at Varennes, % vols*
1 8 yo. .
Moore's view of Society and manner* ia Italy, France,
Switzerland and Germany, 4 vol*. Bvo.
Ruffel's modern Europe, j vols.
Gibber » Roman Empire, a vols, abridged.
Andrew's hiftn.yo? the war with America, France, Spaia
and Holland, 4 vols ivo with portraits, maps, plans, &c.
Ribeaut's history of the Frentfh Revolution.
to South America
Burke on.the
, j Neckar on tie administration of the French finance!
j Mortimer's complete dictionary of trade and commerce
' foli®.
1 I Northern antiquities, % vols. Bto.
. Dadfley's collection of Poem*. 6 vols. Bvo.
Kadcliffe's journey t ' u ' o ' Holland, 4to.
Pennant's history of Qiiadrijpeds, with elegant etitraving*,
' i. a vols. 410. ,
Philosophical Dictionary, 4 vol. Wh mo.
Bolingbroke's works, 5 vol. Svo.
! Antic) uilfl's memoirs of the Coiy of XTi. a vol. 2v«
Children's friend,-in Italian, 4 vol. Svo.
Home's element'* ps criticism, 1 voj. Bvoj
CyllcAiojj of Prologues, See. 4 vol. rim®,
. Buchan's life oßPiet&icr and Thornton, Bvo.
Gay's fables, engrivingg, i vo.
Keqneay on' Gardening, 4 vol. Bvo,
Abercrombie's Ga'rdfcner'* 3 ▼01. IX mo.
Remarkable instances in ancient and n.oJern ex
emplified by biographical fkctchcs.
Biographical Dictionary, containing tha lives #f the moSt.
eminent p»funs, Bvo.'
Comparative display of different optaions on the French,
revolution, 4 vol.
Complete art of Buok-keeping. .
Biographkaianeodotesof W. Hogafth the Painter.
Buftra'i Natural history of Birds, 9 vol. Svo.
Elegant extracts, prose, verse.epistle and sermon* 4VOI Bvo
Martiniere, le Grend D.Ctionairc Geographique et Cri
tique, 13 vol. folio.
New system of Natural History, 3 vol. Svo. with plates-
Plans for the government of Britilh India, publifliej un
der the aulpiccs of Mr. Dundas as Secretary, 4to.
Lord llawkelbury on the conduit of Great-Britain, to
Neutral rations.
Hoyle's Dictionary, or treasury of !vo.
Hifiory of France, from the firft cftab ilhmcnt of that
monarchy, to, and including a narration of the late
revolution, 3 vol. Svo.
History of Spain, 3 vol.
Goldl'mith's experimental pliilofiophy, a voli. Ivo.
Kippax's Theory and Practice of Commrrcc.
Portlock's atad Dixon's Voyage*.
Family Brewer.
Travels of Anaicharli*.
rhompfen't Stirioris, elegant edition
T'ayne's Extraftj
3ijL e Si ''I 4 vol. from the 6erman o£
Williams's letters from the 48th of July to th« ofcti -
1 blilhment of the cenftitution of '95
Freud's Algebra
Chalinrr>'*c»lle<ftion o{ treaties, a vol.
t xOO the conftruition and use of thermom:ur«
Ned Evans, 4 vol.
I Clareujjne, 3 vol. '
Sullivan's view of nature, 6 vol.
Hsloe's t-ranflation of Htrajlotui, 4 vol.
Piijdar's woiks, with a new volume
King of Pruffia'* work, »o vol. in French
Marflial's rural ornaments, a vol.
Hoole's tranflition of Arioflo, 4 vol. *
The kiiTes of Johannes Setund**
Belllham'* memoirs of the reign of George 111.
Letter* r>f an Hindoo Raja'h, a vol.
('.ward'* history of the Weft-InJie*, » vol.
Bells Britilh theatre, 15 vol. elegant
Jones'* do. 10 vol. do.
Ouvre* de Voltaiw, 70 torn, do.-
Work* of the king of Prussia, 13 vol. (KngtilViJ do»
Abbe de Calonne'* vix w of the political Hate of Europe.
Swift's works, 47 vol.
Letter* from Scandinavia, 2'vol.
Gibbon's miscellaneous works, 3 voL
Gibkon'6 Roman Empire, 6 vol.
1 ColleAion of Farces, 6 vol.
R. C. & Co. have received an Imrtifnte cslleftionof
R»uks in every department of literature—London an 4
Dablin editions—amongst which are a capital aflort
' ment of L4W-BOOKS, MEDICAL BOOKS, &c.
all 111 the neateil and some of them in the molt fplenj
did bindings.
" Public and private Libraries supplied on the most
1 reasonable terms.
December 44 01*3*
s
; A few hogflieads of choice N. E. Rum»
and a Quantity of LARD, for sale;
Enquire at No. fx, North Water-ljreet.
December 24 dtw
TO BE SOLD,
APLANTAIGN, ia the town of Woodbttry, coun
ty of Glouceiler, and {late of New-Jetfey, eontam
i, ing about one hundred and hfty aares; a Cuitable propor
tion of which is woodland and improved meadow. A
J great part of the arable laad is in a high state of cultiva
tion, and very natural to the production of Red .Clover.
On said plantation there i* a genteel two-story brick house,
with four rooms on a floor, and a gebd dry cellar uader
the whole; together with a barn, corn-crib«and carriage
houfe. l'he garden is large, and contains a good collec;
. tion of the be ft kind* of grafted *nd inoculated fniit tr«e* 5
the orchardeonGftsof about three hnndred grafted app e
trees. Aay per fori inclined to purchase laid premises, may
» be mforaied of the terms by applying to
ANDREW HUNTER.
July 19 F
' ■ - • - • - - - * - -
Any Person
Who it well acquainted with the Jlivcr
M IS S I S I P PI,
And will give Direilions for failing into the fame,
that can be depended on, Ihall be genaroufly reward*
ed for hi* information, provided he will leave the
y directions with Mr. John Fenno, printer, PhiLufcipbia,
or EAmuad M. Blunt, Newburyport.
Mbvemjier 3. iaw2m
FOUND
0.
Yesterday afternoon, ia Second, between Arch and
Race-flreett,
s, A small sura of money j whoever ha* loft the fame,
may have it by proving their property, anil paying far
ry this advertifeasent.—Apply to the Printer.
Dec. 43. *3*-FOR SJIE,
' . A PLANTATJ ON,
A S^ U rI 1 miks fro;n th > 6 City, fltaate in Abington
*" ownOi'P, MaHtgomery-Coanty ; containing 70
' ""T ' ODC iloulc > two ftaries high, 2 rooms on c
■ nor, re pLce's in each, a flone kitchen and llone lpring
hove.over an excellent fpting of water, » barn, ftabfc,
«S, t arracks,&C. A large apple orchard, and a variety
o ctflc, iruit, about r 2 acres «i good meadow well water-
IWrr"/* W * ed fu % icnt for firc > and fencing the place.
', ■* "v . n "'ay be had the jft of April next. Property -in
Vch Sn ■ be< * ken "exchange. Enquire it No. 37,
_ j' September 13,1796. ttftf
TO BE SOLD,
A LEASE fir seven years, from the 25 th March next, in tlst
capital and beautiful FARM, called
PROSPEC T-H I L L,
Situated within one quarter of a mile tfom the Brandywint
, Wills, and halt a mile from the borough of Wilmington.
r jj"HE dwelling house is built of Hone, two (lories high,
ger.teelv finished, and contains four handioiiie rooms on
a floor, besides an entry, with capital garrets, and convenient
Cellars It u generally thought to command the molt a
, f rcablc profpeft of the Delaware, from ihc source of that
-liver t;> thq Capes. This profpeft ia greatly ernbellifhed by
a full view ot a vast bodi of meadow, through which the
Ciiriiliana and Brandy wine creeks are seen winding in besi
titul meanders. Near the house are a Kitchen, -a fpaciouj
stone liable and hay loft a barn, a carnage house, mi£k
houlc,&c.and a well of as puie water as any on the cunti- ,
ncnt. The garden contains an acre and quarter of land, a- •
bounding with fruit, cuti particularly with peach trees, of
very best kind, brought from Maryland, and in full bear
-ng It is is, moreover, on the place, a young, apple
orchard begining to hear, and several old trees that produce
abundantly, besides cherry arid other orn«m«ntal trees, in ,
great numbers. The farm ceniirts of near foty acres of lond,
of good quality, and clear of incumbrances, exc.-pt taxes,
twenty of which arenow in excellent clover and u Blot ivy, 6
and ten more will be ready tor Cowing next fpnng. a »-
fidefiee ot nearly 8 year; has convinced the tub [caber that t
the situation rs remarkably -healthy. The great poll road I
from Philadelphia to the Southward runs wnhin seventy t
yards of thoboufe. In a word, the beauties and convehi- t
ence of this situation cannot be enume rated in an advertile- f
ment, and when examined, will probably command the at- e
-tention of any person wb6 is desirous of living at one of the
most elegant country fears on the continent. The purehafer a
inayenteron the premihs next spring, or perhaps, this fall, ,
if application be immediately made to Dntlor NICHOLAS ,
WAY, 111 Philadelphia, to Doaor WH RTON, 011 tie
premises, or, in his ablence, to Mr. GJEOKGE TRUIi T, in ,
Wilmington. *•
A quantity of excellent Hay, Grain in the ground, some
Stock, &c. may be bad by the purchaser at the time of sale.
_ N ° v - 7 eodtf
James M'Alpin, Taylor,
No. 3, South Fourth flreet,
RETURNS his grateful acknowledgments to his
Friends and the Public for their liberal encouragement,
and begs leave to folieit a continuance of their favors. *■
He has on hand an extensive assortment of the
Mojl Fajhionable GOODS, ' c
And of the best quality, suitable for the season. fe
At this Ihop Gentlemen can he furnifhed withthe best b:
materials, and have thegi made up nl the neatest and most
Fafftiopable manner, and on the shortest notice. He will vd
thankfully receive any orders, and pay a prompt and di
pmi&ual attention, to them. m
. November 10. w » y
— m
The Elephant
IS RETURNED FROM BALTIMORE.
THE public are refpe&fully informed, that
this animal is to be leen every day, from 8 -
o'clock in the morning till fun dewn, in Market
ftreet, No. 106, south fide, between Third and
Fourth-ttteets. g
Admittance a quarter of a dollar, that every ci
tizen may fee him.
OC?" At the requeil of many perfens it will be,
exhibited on evenings from five to eight o'clock,
at half a dollar each—The room will be well
lighted. November 7.
Treasury of the United States.
Vf OTICE is hereby given to all persons who are or
AN may be Creditors of the United States, for any sums
of th e Findei Debt, or Stock, bearing a present inter rjl of f, x
ter ce*lvm fter annum.
ift. That pursuant to an Ad of Congress pafled on the
sßth day of April, 1796, intitlcd an adt in addition to an
»<ft, intituied " An act nuting further provision for the
support of public cradit, and lor the redemption of the
public dekt," the said debt or stock will be reimbursed and
paid in manner following, to wit. •' First, by, dividends J
" to be made en the last days of March, June and Sejitem- —
" ber for the present year, and, from the year one thoulind I
" seven hundred and niuety-fevrn, to th L year one thou- 3
" sand eight hundred & eighteen in.iufive,at tlie iate of -
" one and one half per centum upon the original capital. r
" Secondly, by dividends to be made on the lift day of
" Decembsr for the present year, and frilrn the year one )
" thoufar.d seven hundred and nincty-feven, to the year xii
" one-thousand eight hundred and'feventeen indnfive, at ticl
■ " the rate of three and one half per centum upon the ori
" ginal capital; and by a dividend ta be male oh the last or
" day of Detember, in the year one thoufaitd' hun- a „,
" dred and eighteen, of such l'um, as will be then a'le
*« quate, according to the contrad, for the Erial redenip- V at
" tion of th:faid stock." ■j> w
sd. All »iiftinelion between payments on account of f ro
Ktercfi and Principal being thus abolilhed by the eftabiifh> ; t i
ment of the pennarrent rule of reimbursement abovn de- as j
cribed, it has become neceflary to vaty accordingly the the
powers of attorney for receiving dividends; the public ! the
reditors will therefore observe that the follqwing ferm /i, ,
seftablifhedfor allpowcrs-'of attorney which may be' the
granted after the due promulgation ol this notice, viz. w ';]
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that Un
/ of 1
do make, conjiiiute arid appoint old
"J my true and lattful At~ aft*
torney,fir me, and in nry name, to receive the dividends uh'cb are, UHr
or Jiall be payable according to law, on tit (her« deferibing the dra
stock) flanJing in my name t the boots of (here defcribiug. the the
hooks of the Treasury or the Commiflioncr of Loans, the
where the stock is credited) from (here insert the com- ing
tnencement and expiration ol time for -which the power of I
attorney is to continue) •w:th potter also an attorney or attor~ are
::ies under him, for that pury ft to male andfubj!itute,andto do all \ of
Ivwjill alis reijvifitefor efteiting thepremife,, hereby ratifying and mot
confirming all that myfii* Attorney or bisfubfiitutejhall lawful- I
iy do, by virtue hereof. t ] ie
In IVitnef: hereof, I have hereunto fit my Hand and Seal thi Hot
day of in the tear a fe
Sealed and Delivered er
in prefince of, f r j el
TtE IT KNOlVN,tbat on the day of jeefc
eforc mep'erfonally came jj
-ottbin named and acknowledged tbe above letter «f attorney to be Coil
"bis afi and died. • h aV(
In tcjlimoky -whereof I have hereunto fit my Han i end ass.x- dra\
S'al the day and year lap <tfbryi/id. caat
Given under my Hand at Philadelphia, thistwen- "til* t
ticth day of July 1796, pmTuant to direaions
from the Secretary of the Treasury i
SAMUEL MEREDITH, Jam
1 reafnrcr of the United States. of J
3*l2J. u Coo
Territory of the Unhid States, N. IV. of the Ohio.
Tdkser "v
ton v - > Foreign attachment.
70 Paxkir. J
11 E Notice is hereby given,
'"g To JOSEPH PARKER, late of'Ka(kafku in the (now)
-e > county of Randolph, in the Territory aforetiid,
; et 7 chant, that in pursuance of the huvs of rhe Territory in
Ci " that cafe provided, a foreign attachm«nt hath iflfued out of
the county court of common pleas of the said county,
in againlt the lands and tenements, goods, chattels and ef
-37> seAs, rights and credits of tke said fofeph Parker, at the
suit of George Turner, Esquire ; and that unless tjie said
Joseph Parker appear by himfclf, or Attorney, to give l
special bail to such suit, judgment by default will be en- «
tered against hixa, at the court to be held in and for the «
\h&t coupiy, next, after the expiration of twelve months
from this date ; and the estate or estates so attached, will
be fold for the fatiifaition of all creditors, who (hall ap
pear to be justly intitled to a demurd tftorcon, and fhaU
lne apply for that purpose. Dated at Kaflcallcia, aforefaid,
this twenty-ninth of March, 1796.
g JOHK >RlC£ JQNEa, AttornefTor PlaintifF.
Horses tajcen in,
h b il For the Winter Season,
tlie And fed on clover hay at place, 12
i!] _ ttiles on the Bristol Road, where good stabling is pro
ws and great care will b« taken of them I
fe - William Bell.
1 ov - mwfawHithtf.
Lettery and Broker's OfEcc, \
*' e No. 64, South SECOND STREET.
lCe <1
id, I 'ICKETS m the Canal Lottery, No. a, for sale—a 1
eS) Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
iV- the late lottery. <i
x . Check Books kept for csamination and r jiflering, for '
lat the City of Walhington, No. 2, and Pattefen Lotteries,
ad both oi which are now drawing—information where
ty tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
ii- tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New
(c- Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
't- examination.
[>e Tlie fubferiher solicits the application of the public
er and his friends, who wifls to purchase or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
e c ' or to money 011 deposit of property.
Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Eridje Lottery for -»
sale at Ten Dollars each, which will be drawn early in *
ie the Spring. C(
Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, Augufl 18, 1796. mth
Brokers Office, and
is - COMMISSION STORE.
t No. 63 South Third ftraet,oppofite the national new Bank. '
' OAMUEL M FROUNCES and JOHN VAN REED, ic
0 have entered into co-partnerlhip, under the firm of
FROUNCES & VAN REED, in thi business ef Brokers, ~
ConveyanceYsand CommifTion merchants. They buy and 2 -
felt on commiflion every species of stock, notes of hand, 4 ' :
ft bills of exchange, houses and lands, &c. —
ft Money procured on deposits, &c. &c. all kimfs o*
II writings ia the conveyancing line, done with r.eatnefs a^id
d dispatch; accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the m
moil correct manner. Conflant attendance will be given. cr
They solicit a share of the public favor ; they uie deter- so
— mined to endeavour to deserve it. to
N. B. The utmolc secrecy observed. in
SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES, "
JOHN VAN REED.
t Philad. August 17. 1796. m&wtf co
Qty ff Washington.
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11,
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT 0 e,THE
FEDERAL CITY.
e A magnificent ) 10,000 dollars, & )
» .■dwelling-hotife, 3 cash 30,000, are 5 • s °' ooo
' 1 ditto ij,ooo & cash 25,00s 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
I ditto 10,000 & cash 10,000 ao,ooo
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 • 10,000
x ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
1 cash prize of 10,000
2 do. 5,000 each, are • 10,000
10 do. 1,800 - - 10,000
. 20 do. 500 - - 10,000 tlO
, 00 do. 100 - - 10,000 .
200 do. 50 - - 10,000
■ 400 do. 2$- - - j 0,000
[ 1,000 do. „ jo - 20,000
i 15,000 do. 10 - 150,000 7 '
I i6>739 Prizes. no
3J,261 Blanks. .
fut
50,000 Tickcts, at Eight Dollari, 400,000 :
N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity of
Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the Last drawn
and the 3o,ooothe last but one :
Artd approved notes, securing payment in either moniy
or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be received for
any number not less than 30 tickets.
i his. Lotteryafford an elegant specimen of thepri
vate buildings to be ereited in tlie City of Washington—
Two beautilul designs are already feletfted for the entire
fronts on two of the public fquaret; from these prawings sot
! it ispropofed to ereel two centre and four corner buildings, r 1
as soon as poflible after this lottery is fold, and to convey f
I them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
j the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery. '
A nett deduction of five per cent, will be made to defray
the neceffery expenses of printing, the surplus
will be made a part of the fund intended for the National
University, to be elected within the city of Washington.
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
old off.- -The money prizes will be payable in thirty days
after it is finiihed ; and any prizes for which fortunate t
uunibers ate not produced within twelve months after the o
drawing is closed, are to be confidercd as given towards
the funi lor tht University ; it being determined to fettle
thejwhole business in a year fron> the e wling of the draw
ing; and to take up the bonds given as security.
Ihe real securities given for the payment of the Prizes, 9,4;
are held by the President and two Diretftors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
mount of the lottery. •
The twenty lour gentlemen who by appointment of
the late Commillioners afiifted in the management of the
Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake this arduous talk "
a second time on behalf ef the public ; a fufficient num 1
ber of tliefe having kindly it is hoped that the ~ ck
friends to a National University and the other federal ob
jeefs may contiaue to favor the design. . '
By accounts received from the diftorent parts of the J
Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets 7°J
have been fiint for sale, the public are affpred that the Ja
drawing will speedily commeme, and that the care and Stl
caution unavoidably necessary to infuie a fafe disposal of r
t'lv* tickets, has rendered the Ihor.' fufpvnfion indifpenlable, 'I
SAMUEL BLODGET. A bo
»§, Tickets may be had at tjie Bank of Cokmbia ; of ine
Ja.4-.es Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter Oilman, Boston : are
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and «f Richard Wells' teri
Cooper's Ferry. e# 0
'>"■ Bank of North America.
THE STOCKHOLDERS aje hereby notified tint an
clcviHurV for twelve Directors ior the ensuing year will be
held at the Bank on Monday the 9th of January at ten
o'clock.
W) RICHAJID WELLS, CaAiier.
er- Dec. 6. § t 9j*
in ■ ——~~ ~~~ ~
:of vVafhington Canal Lottery,
d- nO. 1.
:he \T/"HEREAS the State of Maryland has, authorised
aid VV the underwritten, to ruife t.venty-fix thousand,
ive two hundred, and fifty dolla;*,, for the purpose of cutting
;n- a Canal through the City of vVaihington, from th Po
:he tomacto the£aftern Branch liar^our.
hs The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
rill Viz *x Prize of ~20,000 dollars, »o,»oo
ip- I ditt® jjp.ooo 10,000
all 7 last draWiO „ ' „.
id, Tickcts.each j oJ '
6 ditto 1,000 ' 6,000
to ditto 400 4,000
20 ditto too 2,000 j
55 ditto jo 2,750 ,
5750 ditto 11 69,008
To be raised for th« Canal, 26,25s 1
12 <
5850 Prizes, 175,000
I 11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000 a
—. 30' The Commifiioners have taken the Securities re <
quired by the aforefaid aft for the punctual payment ol <
the prizes. , " , .
Ihe drawing ef this Lottery will commence, without i
delay, as soon as tW Tickets sf-e Ibid, of which timely }
_ a notice will be given. a
in Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after the j
drawing is finifhed, shall be as relinquifced for ;
or the benefit »f the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed J NOTLEY YOUNG,
re DANIEL .
m LEWIS DEBLOIS,
v- GEOKGE WALKER,
or WM. M.DITNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW, I
ic JAMES BARRY.
City of WafhipgwOUj Feb. 11. §
S, , . * ; — ——; —■ — L- 1 - 1
Paterion Lottery.
J1 raising fix thousand fix hundred and sixty-seven J
111 JL dollars and fifty cents, by a deduction of fifteen per
cent the prizes, and not two blanks to a prize. viz j
I Prize of 5000 dollars is dollars 5000 j-
I 1000 1000
i 500 500 *
5 200 1 ioco T
20 100 »000
99. 50 4950 .
c. ' 100 2S 5000
), j ioo ° 10 10,000
,f 5 Last drawn numbers of roocrdpHafs each, 5000 J
d | Pri»~. 44,450 T
I 4018 Blanks. c j
rf 6350 fickets at Seven Dollars each, 44,450 <J ;
d By order of the Diredors of the Society for cftablifh- t.<
e ing IMcful Manufactures, the fuperint-endauts of the Pat- n
1. erfon Lottery hive requested the Managers to offer the as
foregoing Sjheme to the public, and have directed them
to refund the money to those persons who have purehafed ol
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets w
II this Lottery. „
The lottery has aiftnaUy commenced drawing, and will tf
continue until finifhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prises a;
— wk leen at thr office nt William 64
(outh Second street, who will give information where tick- pi
ets may b« procured.
Dated this 17th day of June, 1796. Ac
J. N- GUMMING, ~) h<
JACOB R. HARDENBERG,\ Managers, re
JONATHAN RHEA, 3 at
STATE OF THE WHEEL.
1 Prize of 5000 ... 5 000
1 1000 ... 1000 1S
I 500 JOO m
5 200 ... i«co | a]
20 100 - - aooo hi
9® jo 4500 f el
l6 i 25 . 4lts ■
The five last drawn tickets, 1000 e»ch, 5000
Being all the valuable prizes, besides a full propor- ~~
tion of the 10 dollars.
As the Lottery is considerably more than oire third
drawn, the value of the Undrawn tickets is -
ly increased, and it is worth the notice of those p
who hold tickets in the old fcherrc, that they can ex
change their tickets for those in the above, if they ap- j? 1 *
ly soon, and at a moderate advance considering the fa'
now real value of an undrawn ticket. " T
The tickets being nearly all fold, the drawing in
future will be oftener, amd the Lottery soon finifhed. a f t
November 12. ' mwß
F By Authority. {£
1 at
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
SM h WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64, stl
Seut/j Second-jlreet. t0
— ' Mi
SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
For railing Sixty Thousand Dollars, agretably to an AQ ol me
,-the Legislature of Pennfylvasia, palled during the lait
feflinn, for building a Stone Bridge over the Rivei P°'
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, ip the County of bet
Berks - . Dollars.
1 Prise of 20,000 Dollars . 20 eoo 1 0 ?
1 do. of ie,ooo do. . . ic|coo <
3 do. of 5,000 do. . . 15.000 <
4 do. of 2,000 do. . . g iooo
20 do. of 1,000 do. . _ 20,000 1
39 <J°- of 500 do. . . iq, io c (
80 do. of 200 do. . . . ,6,000 n
too do. of 100 do. . 2t;CCC
300 do. of 5 0 do. - . 15|0S0 •
1 do ( of jso do. to be paid the posies- >
for »f the firft drann no. J SCO5 C 0 J
j do* of 3, SCO do. to be paid polfeffors ) ™ e
of the five last drawn nos \ 1 4>®°° for
9,400 do. 0 15 do. ; . ,i>,ooo lroi
' — _ adv
Pri*cs -300,ca0 1
10,046 Blanks pro
der
3°> 000 . Tickets at Ten Dollars 300,000 rkk
. - All Pr.zss mall be paid fifteen days after the wing is thai
finifhed, upon the demand of a potffflor of a fortunate by
ticket, fubje& to a dedu&ion of twenty per ctnt. The f or
Drawing will commence as soon as the Tickets are difpol>d t] le
of, or perhaps fooher. of which public notice will be rai q
Philip Miller, Peter Kerjhner, William Witman, cert
J'fcph Hie/lir, James ■Diemer, Thomas Dutidas, ofti
James May, John Otto, John Ktim, Daniel CraeJ\
Sti'a/lian Miller, Commissioners.
Reading, May the gth, 1796.
I iekets in the Canal Lottery, t4o. 2, to be had at the - —'
above office,where the earliest information of the draw po
ing of the Washington No. », and Patterfon Lottery's,
are received, and checkbooks for examination and reerif
terkg are kept.
odober 7- aawtf ;
'
y
DANCING SCHOOL.
t an
11 be WILLIAM M'DOUGALJ. willopen hufchool on M
ten day thejlft inft. <tt ten o'doek in the mormn» at ,
Elegant hew Ball Rooms, '
j In Fourth, between Chefnut and Walnut Stteeu
Hours of tuition for young ladies, from xo to 1 o'cin-J
, on Mondays, Wednesday, and Friday mornings; amj f ct
} young gentlemen from 6to 9 o'cUck en the evenis™ 1
(he fime days. I ■
■ifei In addition to a number of new cotillions, he means to
and, | introduce a variety of Scotch Reels.
ting Note. The firft praihfing ball to be on Tuefdar t .
p 0 vening, the firft of November, and to be continued evcrr
Tuesday, during the feafoii.
For terms, Sec, enquire at his house, No.l34,Markcs
street.,
° a - tthf_
A Manufactory FOR SALE.
A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufaflory, fiiuat*
in a convenient part of the city ; the works almo ft n cw
on an entirely original conftruftiun and built of ihe Left
materials, and may be set to work immediately. Perform
who wilh to purchase, are requested to apply at No. 250
South Second Street. September 13. t t f if
Twerity Guineas Reward.
RANAWAY fronj the fubferiber on the 23d October
a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSJSS ; n y ear j ,
re old ; about 5 feet 8 inches high ; had on a mkid green
tof coat, with a green-velvet cape and oval yellow buttons
a striped vest ; a pdir of dark spotted pantaloons, and
out whole boots much worn. It is probable he may chsnge
iely his name and dress. He has been acmiftomed to driving
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will be
the paid for fccuring him so that the fubferiber may get him
for again, and if brought home all reafcaable charges paidby
y ° Robins Chamberlaine.
•J) Eafton, Maryland, Nov. 10. 14 ; muawtf
Le Breton,
SUR G EON-DENT IST,
Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late DentHt to the
King and Royal Family of France, member of the
_ College and Academy of Surgeons at Parie^
Keeps a complete aflbrtmem of every thing necefiary '
to be used for the
Pen Preservation of the Mouth and Teeth.
l' Lr Patent Mineral Teeth, and Human k Ivory Teeth ;
300 ? entrifi . c: iB powder j Opiate; excellent Elixir for
joo fweettnln K tlj e mouth and preserving the teeth—he
;©o ° funujhes Brufbes and foft Sponges.
>co _ "** lives ™ Ghefnut-ftreet, No. 13 c, abeve
)QO Fourtli-flreet.
)jo November 26. . tts
Samuel Richardet
-OO nESPECTFULLY informs the Centlem*,.
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
■50 TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEE HOUSE in the
city of Philadelphia;
The Subfcripricn Room will be furnifhed with all the-
SO daily papers publiiked in Philadelphia, New-York, Bof
,on > Baltimore, together with thole of the principal com
«- mercial cities of Europe—They will be r«g*larly tiled
■be and.none permitted to be taken away on any account,
•m lea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, andavariety
e ' °\ French Liquors; togeftjier with the usual refrefhments,
ets will at all times be procured at the bar.
... Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
ill the choicuft of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the most
64 l-' c l uors and other breweries.
k- productions Scafo'm'' 1 r ' Tn :
and small Parties, or single Gentlemfli, may be
accommodated with BreaHafts, Dinners, or Hoppers, at
hours most convenient to themselves—a cold Collation is
rs. regalarly kept for conveniency, the Billof Fare to be had
f at the bar. - ,_y9
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifted, aad
DO utpiolt attrition paid to claanlinefs, and every other
requisite. 7
' l Richardet will behappy to receive, and
do f ICrUtC t ' lc comi ?iands of his Friends, and the Public at
30 u- rg ? ; ,r an L d W ' th , e ratitude f(,r their 'avours, he pledge*
himfelf that nothing on his part shall be wanting to pre- 'j
lcrve that patronage with which he has been so diftinguifh
lJ iMgty Honored.
3© I'h'ladelphia, April iq. nlw f '
r- " — ►
d Treasury Department,
t _ September 28, 1796.
f e "VTOTICE is hereby given, that proposals will be ro
ceived at the office of the Secretary of the Trcafiiry
" ar ; til expiration of tfce firft day of March next er.-
suing, for tkefupply of all rations which may he required
lc " ftjr the use of the United States, from the ;irft day of
June, 1797, to the thirty-firft day of May, 1798, both
n days inclufiye, at the piaees and within the diftrids iure
aiter racntierled, viz. At Ofwego; at Niagara; at
_ Pjtfiine Isle; at Sandulky Lake, and on Sandufkf
River; at Detroit; at Micliiiimackinac; at Fort-Frank
lin; at Pittfturgh ;at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hamilton ;
at Fort St. Llair; at Fort-Jefierfon ;at Grenville; at
I icque Town • and Loramie3 Store; at Fort Adams; at
Fort Wayne; at Fcrt Defiance ; at any place below Fort
Defiance oh the Miami River to Lake Eric; at Fort
[> Steuben ;at Fort Maflac ;at any place from Fort Maffae '
to the south boundary of the United States on the river
Miflifippi; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiatanon.
II fupp'.ies (hall be required lor any posts or places not
if roentioned in this notice, all such, supplies Ihall be fur- '
, t luihed at prices proportioned to those to be naid at the
posts before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed on
,t between the United States and the Contraiftor.
s. The rations to be supplied are to confiil of the fol
-0 lowing articles, viz.
o One pound two ounces of bread or flour.
o One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounces «f
0 pork or bacon.
0 Half a gHI of rum, brandy cr whiskey.
D One quart and half a pint of falt.~\
° Two quarts of Vinegar, (
" Two pounds of Soap, > per hundred ratios.
3 One pound of Candles, J
' derations are to ba furnifhed m fach quantities, asthat
diere shall at all times during the said term, be fuflicient
> for the coufutnption of the troops at Michilimackinac, De
, troit, Niagara, and Of-.vego, for the term of fix months in
. advance, and at each of the other posts', for the term of
, at leafl v/. ce months in advance, in good and wholesome pj'i
. prov:fions,if the fame fhail be required. It is to be utv
derftood, that the Contrailor is to be at the extents and
3 rift: of ilTuirgthe supplies to the troops ate«ch post, and J
■ that all lasses l'uftained by the depredations of an enemy, or
- by means of the troops of the United States, shall be paid
• for at the price of the articles captured or destroyed, on I
the depositions of two or more persons of creditable cha- -1
ra<9«r», and the certificate of a comnii.Tioticd officer iff.
» certaining the circumstances of the loss, and ib>- amount
, of the articles for which oompenfation shall be chimed j
, OLIVER WOLCQTT,
Seeretar) of the Treasury. j
PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO, J
—No. 119 — f f
' C H ESNUT-STRF ET.
J - [Price Fight Delkrs ptr Arnum.J