it • •• '* • - ,
of the &-Philadelphia Daily Advertiser,
J y V MVE* 1225.3 FRID AT EVENING, AUGUST 12, 1706. [VoirMz X,
Just-Arrived
In th brig lietfey, from Jercmie, and for sale by
the fubicriiiers. TNF
Forty thouiand wf. or very prime Loliee 1 tr
in hogsheads an&bags from
And, in the schooner Hope) from New Orleans. licati-
BEEF P«r
Cotton his p :
HIDES and tcrsn
I LOGWOOD. F ° rt
A liberal credit will be given for Approved Notes.
Richard and James Potter.
July 27. papei
A well-finifhed, commodious '"3
H O U S ' E the I
for Sale, and immediate pojfeffioti given, h »
SITUATE on the north fide of Spruce-street, No. 111, *
between Fourth and Fifth streets. The house, piazza c
and back buildings are three stories in height, and peifedt "
ly well adapted for the accommodation of a large family,
as they contain twelve good rooms, exclusive of two ciel
ed garrets. In the yard, which is neatly paved, there are "j- e
two pumps ; one in a rain cistern, the other of as good .
water as any in the city i The cellars are dry and large.
The terms of payment will be easy : a great part' of the
purchase-money in all probability may lay for years on in-
tereft. Apply at No. 109, next d.or eath\ ard.
July 30 §iw_
Landing a.
From on board ths Nancy, William Belcher, tnaf.
ter, from Bourdeaox, a cargo, confiding of—
360 Hhds. CHOICE CLAR.ET,
232 Cases of 24 bottles each, Claret,
286 do. of 24 do. WHITE WINE,
BRANDY, SWEET OIL, and
I TRUNK r,f RTRKOWS
' r , - For SaU by < •
F. Coppinger.
Tufy *3-
Just Arrived, chef
In the Snow Boston, James Kirkpatrick, raafter from Li
verpool,
eo'®o BufheU SALT ;
100 Crates QUEENS WARE; and
An Afibrtment of SHIP CHANDLERY;
FOR SALE
On board, at Pine-street wharf. Apply to
"James Campbell, or
George Latimer. f«ts,
April *9.
Wm. HOLDERNESSE,
f No. 76 High Street, —-
HAS received, by the latest arrivals from Europe and I
the East Indies, a well feletfted assortment of Silk Wll
Mercery, Linen Drapery and Habei tlalhery Goods; which w'c
he will fell, Wholesale and Retail, on the lowest terms ; f lft j
amongst which are, JyJ
Some fine India muslins embroidered with gold and (fiver
Superfine Book, Jaconet, and Mulmul ditto C.(
Do do do do Handkerchiefs
Some extra black taffeties.lutcftringsand colored Persians
Bandano rtatidkerchict6
Long and short Nankeens
English Mantuas of the firft quality I
Damalk table linen and napkins, very fine
Silk Hosiery, an elegant assortment
Thcad and cotton do
Umbrellas—green silk, oil'd do. and do cloth
French cambrics, very fine
Jrifh Linens, do. &c. &c. June 14 s
Insurance comp. of the state of
Pennsylvania. £
The Directors have declared a dividend of fixtcen dol- inc
Jars on each fh'are of the capital of said company, for the tio
last fix months which will be paid to the stockholders or gr
theii leeal representatives on every day after the loth tic
iaftafit. O'
S. IV. Ft/her, ™
Secretary.
'August «■ dlot - t °
Wanted, £
A Partner with a small capital to unite in the business
of a Mill and Distillery in Virginia. Inquire of
the Printer. Aug. 9 § lw
Prime Rice.
One Hundred Tierces of Prime Rice, I
Tuft arrived in the brig Welcome Return, from Savan- w
pah, for sale by % FOOTMAN & CO. a
Aug. 6 * si
— *— —1
UNITED STATES, ? *
PENNSYLVANIA DISTRICT, J
Notice is hereby given,
THAT purfuaut to a Writ to me directed, from the ho
norable Richard Peters, Elquire, Judge of the Di
ftrift Court ot the United States in and lor the Pennfylva
•ia Diftri<ft,
Will be exposed to Sale,
at the Custom-House, on Monday, the tith day of Au- 3
gust, 3 Bags of COFFEE
j Bbl. SUGAR. '
t Half do. do.
2 Do. do. TAMARINDS
i Kegs do- j
1 Bags of Sttgar and
3 Do. Coffee
The fame having been libelled again (I. prefecuted, and
condemned as forfeited, in the said coijrf 1
WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marshal. ,
Marlhal's Office, 30th July, 179(1-
INFORMATION
IS given daily of the drawing of tbe WASHINGTON
LOTTERY, at the Office
No. 147 Chefnutjlreet,
between Fourth and Fifth streets. Also, where Tickets
may yet be had. Aug. 5. eo
The Ninth day's drawing is arrived.
To be disposed of,
THE time of a healthy NEGRO WOMAN, who
has between four and five years to iervs: She
can be recommended for her sobriety and honelly. For
particulars enquire at No. 13J, Chefhut-flrcct.
Augoft3. »awtf.
The New World.
SAMUEL H. SMITH, 12
INFORMS the public, tß.it encouraged by a liberal pa-
tronage, and in compliance with numerous rcquefts
from Subscribers, lie has determined to anticipate th. pub- wh rv
licatior. of The New World. ,The firft number w',ll ap- underi
pear on Monday, the Ijth Auguil. Those who have seen Sop
his propofalsarefufticiently acquainted with the plan and Yo;
terms on whicli it is designed to condiiii thi» . Ela,
For the information of those perfotis who are not acquaint- Mii
ed, it is ncceffury to observe, Uiat ic will be pabtifij d
twice a day, in the morring and evening ; that the price
is only Eight Dollirs, being th; fame with that of news-
papers printed but once a day ; and that its plsn will be "
comf rchenfive and liberal.
gj" The Publisher offers a liberal compensation any
pt-rfon well qualii'ied to make a cotreft and full report of |
the Debates of the Federal and State Legislatures, whijh
it is his intention to pubs fh in the New World.
*,* Apvcrtifements will be inserted, from the appear
| ar.ee of the firft number until further notice, when not
exceedi«g a square, for forty cents for the firft, andtwen- 4-4
ty cents fbr every subsequent insertion ; and a confident- 4-4
' kle abatement will bs made when they are steadily insert- A 1:
ed. Those gentlemen who have expressed their intention Qu
J of fending Advertisements, as well as those who have such far
an intention without having expressed it, are informed G"
] thit the paper of Monday, Auguil 15, will be open for :u
their admifiion until the evening of Saturday preceding.
N. B. It isearneftly requested that all fubfeription-pa-
pers not yet returned, may be sent to the printer before
the day of publication.
A faithful Pressman wanted. T) ■*
Aug. 6 eotssth LV
Philip Nicklin & Co! tl
H.WE FOR SJLJi, J.'™
Souchong ih
Hyfoti Skin J V u
• Young Hyson V FRESH TEAS
Hyson and \ W
Yellow Nankeens . jJatj
China Ware, alTorfed in Boies and (.niiw
Quicksilver T u
Bandanno Handkerchiefs of excellent quality in _J_
London Market MADEIRA WINE
London particular >■ in pipes, hogsheads, &
New-York Market J quarter qalks
Teneriffe Wine in pines and hogfs-eads
Sugar Candy by the Box
Sail Canvas No. 1 a 8
Lead in sheets cont
3 Casks of Cutlery aflarted „
A few chests of Manchester Goods, assorted thick
fats, cori, striped Nankeens, &c._ j (
3 Small packages of black sewing-silks ftori
8 Tierces Virginia Snake-wot. dool
Nails aflbrted ill cases n y r
July t8 , ar,
d On Monday next, 25th inft. (July,)
k Wilt be landed at South ttreef wharf, the cargoes of Superb, ar£ , a
h' Weft Indian and lfabel.la, from Jamaica and Havanila, con- ( s Qn
filling of brie
. r Molafles in Hogsheads, i.. g
Coffee in hogsheads, barrels & bae;s,
FCll SALE BY ma)
ns PETER BLIGHT, due
Who has also for sale, and
A quantity of Jamaica GINGER, b ' atl
Pimento & 7 In B ;»•
Cocoa, J mi
And ~0 boxesHambro' WINDOW GLASS, 7by 9, w»U goo
be fold cheap. ~ roo
J u ly 2G diot 3c tuth oc s tot nni
»f To be fold, At
A PLANTATION, in the town of Woodbury, coun- (
tyof Gloucester, aad state of New-Jersey, contain —
ol- ing about one hundred and fifty acres ; a Suitable propor
:he tion of which is woodland and improved meadow. A
or great part of the arable land is in a high state of cultiva
>th tion, and very natural to the production of Red Clover.
On said plantation there is a genteel two-story brick house,
with four rooms on a floor, and a good dry cellar under t j l(
the whole ; together with a barn, corn-cribs and.carriage- of
house The garden is large, and contains a good collec he
- 1 — tion of the best kinds of grafted and inoculated fruit trees ; tQ]
the orchard confiftsof about three hundred grafted app e- f a j
' trees. Any person inclined to purchase said premiles, may
iefs be informed of the terms by applying to
Andrew Hunter. bp
—■ J u 'y *9 — th
Aslheton and James Humphreys,
CONVEYANCERS, or
HAVE removed their office to No. 61, Walnut-flrfct, in
next door but two to the corner of Dack-flreefc, th
ran- where all INSTRUMENTS IN WRITING are drawn at
I a moderate charge, with care, accaracy and dilpatch.—■
i They likewise boy and fell Real Estates upon comnnf
fions, and procure Money upon Loan on good security.— _
— The business of an ATTORNEY AT LAW and NOTA
RY PUBLIC is also tranfa&ed at the said office as usual
by ASSHETON HUMPHREYS.
N. B. Good Notes discounted.
Inly 5- eo6w
: ho- For Sale,
A Valuable Grift and Saw Mill,
IN New Jerfcy, near the Forks of Little Egg-Harbour.
The' Grift Mill is sixty by forty feet, two water wheels,
A„ 1 and calculated for four run of Stones, with screen, far.s %
and boulting-cloths, &c. The Saw-Mill has two faws,and
capable ofcuttingfiveto 6 100 thousand feet of Boards per
year. A valuable piece of Cedar Swamp, within a mile
and a half of the Mill, and within three quarters of a mile
of a Landing The Lumber, &c. may be taken by water
from the mill tail. !
ALSO TOR SALE, ,
,and Several Valuable .Tracts of Land, ,
In Pennsylvania, for all of which payment will be recei.v- ,
al. E d in the notes of Messrs. Morris a?d Nichelfon, or in
Caffi. .
— For further Information apply to the Frinter.
May 17. ; 1
roN plans of the city of Philadelphia,
Including the Northern Liberties and diilrifl of
SOUTHWARK ;
ckets Published, and fold by
BENJAMIN DAVIES,
• No. 63, High street,
(Price one dollar.)
THIS plan is inches square, and has been en
who jeraved by one ef the firll artists !n the city, from a late
: She Ld accurate survey. Purchasers are entitled to a nam
. For pi,let with each plan, giving" foipe account ot the
city, its population, trade,' government, #cc.
July 19
GroIGK DpB'SON, \Tkefo
BF.OS !cave to inform the Store-Keepers in Tonn ard
Cou«'<rv, that he has removed from Marloei.-Street to '
N°- 25, south Third-ilrccr,
wb rc ht li a-Large and Elegant Assortment of the orc
undernemiolitd articles—viz. wa *
Suwrfuie LoridoiiClothsasd Kerseymere», feftly 1
Yo klhirefccopd Do. 00. slot a ,
ElaX'ic du. do. ,
Mii'd and Bfur Coatings . Be Ullg
Tlainfllk, Ac. • two he
Ma"ui>efla! Printed Calli-«», ftol lt»i
,|rf>n<Hin chinu ditto, trafted
Bluelaiid ditto Furnitures,
India \ diito. t!,ke "i
Long Coins, Colfaes, Saftas, Battiilas <Se Conjevrerat, death i
4-4 g-8 5-4 & 6-4 Superfine lndit Book Mulltns, bably
4-4 and 1-8 India liook Htindkerchiefs, f..ii
4-4 and t.B Scotch ditto,
4-4 it 6-4p)ein do. iVfaflins,
4-4 & 6 481 itifh Jaconets, examir
6-4 Briiiii Checks and Stripes, 2} the
4-4 India la. do. do.
4-4 ditto (hflloes, Madras Handkerchiefs, &e. evemnj
A large alfitmentof figor'd arid plain MuflinSts, A C
Quillings, Jimities, and Striped Nankeens, jn the
fancy Wailcoatings, vj r g
cf the firft Quality, fubieft to Drawback, ' .
India Nanktens, exatnit
Men's Whittand coloured Silk iiockings. Marlbi
May 9 foweotf Charle
Twenty Dollars Reward. a ;^j
RAN away this morning from the Subscriber, living
in thecounty of Monmouth, New-Jersey, a remark- . ev f
ably black 'Jegro Man, named BEN—ab»ut 40 years of | n 8 tn
age, 5 feet or 10 inches high, flout made, bald on the appeal
crown of hs head; had on and took with him a grey \
homespun eating coat and jacket, a brown cloth coat, D j oo f
with a blacl collar, homespun tow fliirts and trowfers, f ,
with other ilins and small cloaths which caiinot He ei:U
nierated. He is a complaisant, artful and deceitful fellow.
Whoever will take up and secure the laid .
as
, July 18—Aug. 1 Siw • raß ] Lj
For Sale,
t A LARGE ELUGANT A»D WELL FINISHED
Three-story Brick House,
(The late refldence of General Walter Stewart)
WITH a LOT us GRODND thereunto belonging, p 0!
the weft fide of Third-street, near Union-street (l ance
containing in front 3 a feet, and in depth 100 feet, to an
alley leading into Utiion-ftrcet. house is 3a feetfront
and 50 feet deep ; taie several rooms contained in it are httnle
large, commodious, and completely •fmifhed; the two firft the b
stories are each 13 feet hijjh ; there are ao mahogany cuurt
doors in the house ; a geometrical staircase, with mahuga
ny rails and a good ffc'y-light. The kitchen is in the cell
ar,- which is spacious and convenient, and finilhed with an
\ oven, stew-holes and pantries, a fervantfe* hall and large that 1
' wine-cellar adjoining the kitchen, in front of which is an tions
1 ' area in which there is a pump The yard is vaulted. (1 £ u f|
1 Communicating with the said building isa neat three-story j
brick hoafe, on the iiorth fide of Uricn-ftreet, contain
ing 30 feet front'by ao feet deep; thelower part of which & ctl 1
is at prsfent occupied as a comptingrt-houfe, and the upper true?
'' part divided into w#ll.finilhed large chanibers., This house Twer
may at a fm-all expenie be converted into a convenient t r fcat
dtvelhng : The ilreet door is very handsome, and the front
and "Back have Venetian window-ihutters. Adjoining the '
last house, upon thelot belongihg tb the firft, are erected '"j"™
batlung-rooms, &c. There are likewise very good coach- tltlCC
hoafe and Arables linifhed equal (or nearly so) with any in Fret:
the city, 011 a lot containing on Union street 3° feet, and
in depth 011 the waft fide of said alley 51 feet. There are r (>|
ill good cellars under the whole of the buildings, and a wine t>
room over part of the stable, with'a hay-loft over the re
niainder. For further particulars enquire of polll
EDWARD BONS.hLL & Co. a f U '
At their Office No. 64 Dock-street. between Walnut & Pear d
eo
n " 6th month 24th, 1796
n —- - * 1 1 baui
'X JOHN PAUL JONES. ™
,a * TNFORMATION is hereby given, that tha late John j
er - 1. Paul Tones was a proprietor of five lhares amount
se ' ine to about 5867 icres) in a trad of land purchased by que
ler the Ohio Company, in the territory of the United States thai
? e * of America, north-weft of the river Ohio ; and that his [ ng
ec heirs, or legal representative, on application to the direc- w ;|]
<* tors ef said company, at Marietta in the territory afore-
,e " said, will receive a deed «f the said five scares, or rights
The application maybe made personally or by an agent, I ten
but proper documents must be produced to prove the •
f claimant or claimants the legal heirs or representative ol
"""" the said Tones. . r 1 p-re
, N.B. Asit is not known in what country the person I &
or persons interested reside, it will be an a£ of benevolence nn
•et, in every Printer in America and Europe, who shall insert a n
ee&. this ad in his paper. lore
It, in behalf of the diredors of ha,
nif- Marietta, May 10,1796. [June .] 3awpw I.^
S Jui":Publifhed,
fS. BY THOMAS DOBSON, j
At the Stone House, No- 5 l South land Street,]
— neatly printed in one volume quarto, price lix
dollars the fine papcx, or five dollats the com
mon: _ , , P ll
our. The Four Gospels, p*
eels, TRAtfLATED FROM THE GREEK-, I
fan j With preliminary DifTerta ions, and Notes critical and ex- lai
>and plasnatory. re
ip s Bv GEORGE CAMPBELL, D. D. F. R. S. Id<
™ile &c. Principal of Marifchal College, Aberdeen. g ,
,ater * * Th# oharafter of the author, for aeutenefs
and etudition has been established by his efTay on o)
miracles it. answer to David Hu-c," the: greatest h
masterpiece of the kind ever published, and by his d
«iy- « - Philofophv of Rhetoric," and to the naerit oil
,r in ,he present work, the result of nearly forty years
ft tidy and application, and the fubllance of hu I j.
tw course of lectures ia his official capacity, the ,
teviewershave given ample teifimony, but their ac r
1 t count, however honorable to the wo. is too long ,
°' for a place in tb.is advertisement, the wotk howev
er is now prtferrted in an American edition at not 1 (
more than half the price of the London copy. ,
July 20. ' - - 1
of Pennsylvania,
n en- July .6, 1796.
a late Bumm „ Vacation will take place j
!>«»' J- ! the 18'.h tu ft. and continue for Foo a W.^-Thcdihe'
t the exit. Schools with th; several Tutor s will Kcord.ngly .e I
affemKc on T.Jonday, the 15th day ot
ftf By the Faculty, Wm, RooSec y. |
LORD TOWN9HEND.
t The following additional midittte and Verdtd (»"•
elude the prticie publitbed yrjlerday..
I Mt. K'etrifon, apprentice lit Mr. Barnharo, ot
I o*ford-ttreei, said, that he law the body when it •
was brought into hU mallet's, house ; it wis per
fectly dead,"but was-yet warm; though he v.-oi
riot a Wry g<six! jirdv;e of the matter, be briuvcf'i
he might fay that the Jeceaftrd had beeotfsad Jooui
two hours. The wound appeared as though a pi
stol Itsd bi-en put into "his mouth a ball was eV
trafted from the crown of his head. He could nst
take upon him to fay, whether it was filicide, or
death by the hand of another} but it might pro
bably be fuicide> as the pitlol moil have been put
full into the mouth, the teeth being all found.
The magiilrate men desired the several perlons
examined to attend at site o'clock in the afternoon,
as the coroner's jury would fit on the body in the
evening.
A Coroner's Inqtleft fat at half pad fix o'clock
in the evening, at the public houie i;ext door tt>
Mr. Barnham's, where-the dead boJy lay. They
examined all the f trfons who had been before at
Marlborough-ftreet, with the addition of Lord
Charles's servant, and Mr. Barnhsm, who extract ••
ed a bali from the top of thedeceafed's head. Hav
ing infpefted the body, they retired to confide* o£
the vetdi<3 in the following words; " Upon view
ing the body and from the evidence obtained, it
appears that the death of Lord Charles Towri
hem} was oceafioned by a pistol ftiot: but have m?
1 proof by whose hand the pistol Was fired.—Signed
' for felf and the reft of the jury,
«< THOMAjs JACKSON-"
ljirnity so truly dreadful, which overwhelms with
aifliftion a family not more refpaft..!. r . ,—
' rank, than estimable for their virtue*.
-i.jgTTT.lt ' 1 "**
EUROPEAN INTELLIGENCE.
TURIN, May 5.
persons are defirotis of knowing the circrm
(lances which have compelled the king <rf Saidtnia
j to conclude an armitHce by which he fnrrendered
e himfelf to the French. We are allured that after
1 the battle of Mondovi general Colli wrote to the
y court, jhat it wasimpolfible for him, with an army
diiheartened and reduced neatly one half, to Kt;li
, out BUich longer against the French. It was then
e that the king and His council upon the'reprefenta'
n tions of the prince of PicdtnOnt determined to »tk
a fufpenfton of arms-although Beaulieu was then
*on his march to attack the French. r lhe French
h general thought of 1 nothing less than grafting a
■ r trace ; however not to give fimplv a negative an
fe fwer he prtlpdfed the conditions expressed in the
at trtaty, not thinking that they could be accepted.
In the interim Chetafco was taken by a coup d.*
main. There then remained no ylaee or poll for.
h- tified between the French army and Turin. Iha
in Freuch , tne>al-faw the Baron de la Tour arrive,
nd who informed him, that his Sardinian majeily had
re I 6gn«d the articles of the Truce, and had given or
daw that they should be complied with as loon as
i possible; The king of Sardinia havisg no longer
I a futScient army to cover Turin, saw as well the
I danger of remaining iu the city as of leaving it*
The inhabitants cried peace, peace, and very pro*
— bably would not have foftained a siege. The fuf-
I render of the capital worfld probably have drawtl
after it that of other places, and the king of Sar
dinia would have fecn the whole of Piedmont con
by quertd and in a revolutionary ftatc. It is supposed
itea that the court of Turin flattered i'.felt with obtain*
h' s 1 ing an indemnification in Lorobardy, and that it
ec ~ I will offer iti"alliance to the French. It is true that
£ e t ' s they do not need the affiftancn of the Piedmontefe
! 8 to finifh that conquest ; but it may be to their in
»nt, tereft to sngage it in a war with the emperor.
the I The minister of tVic emperor, the count de Ge*
; of 1 rardine', is' returned here ; this has given rile to a
•son I great many conjedturei. But as the court of Tu
nc" rin is not at war with the emperor, i: is plain that
ifert a minister cannot quit his pod without the express
order of his court. The princefles of France who
had gone from Turin, have returned thither since
the finning of the truce between the French and
I the Piedfflontefe.
Received at Ne<B>-Tofk t
By the PenUofe, Bunker, from Dublin.
reel, I —
fix-1 LONDON, May 20.
om- his underfjood that the cleftion will be com
pitted, and the new Parliament meet for the dil-
I patch of business, in the month of July.—Matters
of great important, it is cxpefted, will then he
dex- laid before them, and the house will not rife for the
recess until Autumn. Perhaps no plan could be
J devised, more calculated than this for the public
- n • 1 good. .
:nefs Lord Hood has taken his farewell of the ekftors
1 on of Westminster ; informing them that his Majefly
tateft has fignified his intention of conferring on him the
r his I dignity of an Englilh Peer.
it of J ——
y ears It is said that there will be many changes iu the
lf his 1 law department : Judge Aftturft and Judg« Pevrvn
I to retire ; Serjeants Adair and Le Blanc to be the
ac I nttv Judges ; William Grant, Eiq. to be eithev
l° n g I Attorney or Solicitor General.
owev- j j o h„ Holt, of Walton, the {urveyor cf A
t not I g r ; c ulture for the' county of Lancaller, has been
r» | presented with a cow calf, whose dim is in the 32d
■2\v year 0 f her age ; a fad which, can be ifcertaiiica
I From certain data. And, what renders the circum
' g I stance more remarkable, tha dam of the ca! ,
y next, I whilst in the poffeflion of the present proprietor
ediffer- I c an never be said to have been properly out ot w'nit
1 for tfee last fifteen years. The young feniale c« £
•'y, 1 tseir.s very healthy, and a beautiful crcatu.c.jg v Foreign intelligence.
By the Jostrn, cast. Stone.
LIVERPOOL, May 30.
A GRATEFUL SEAMAN.
The following anecdote is told of the late Eail
of Sandwich, and {sir Edward Hughes.
Sit Edward, it is known, before his appointment
as Commander in Chief upon the India Ration,
had little -money and many debts. He obtained
that appointment by the friendship of the Earl of,
Sandwich. *
Upon his return, afwr many suitable teflimonies
of refpeft, he seized one moment of cordiality to
extort from the Ea:l a promise, that, whatever lie 1
might next afl<fhou!d not be refufed, if it could be i
granted. He a (Iced accordingly a lift of .his Lord
<hip J s debts. They amounted to one hundred thou- 1
sand pounds, which the grateful seamen paid, be
lieving that he had thus made a new man of his
patron.
But it was not so. The Earl did not {hew all t
his debts ; and what he kept back was enough to i
begin a new lift ; the inconveniences of which bar- i
raffed the latter years of a life, upon the whole, <
more to be pitied, than condemned. 1
A few days ago, the Janus, of Sunderland, fail '
ed from that port on a voyage to the Baltic, but t
kad not been above three hotlVg at sea, before the t
master and crew, to their great furprile, discovered t
that (he took in a large'quantity of water, which t
increased upon .them, notwithllanding the pumps t
1 were kept open ; not being able to find out the j
cause, they returned into harbour, whin, on search- c
ing the vessel, a hole, bored through her bottom f
with an auger, was discovered. On a drift fcruti- r
ny, a boy na Tied Wake, belonging to the (hip, at f
length confeffed that he committed this diabolical ti
deed through an aversion to the voyage, and a de- p
site to go on board another of the owner's vessels v
tiling coast wife. 1 „
SoutVTof wncrc" by agreement,' a number "v
to begin a riotous attack, truf- a
ting for fafetyto the privileges of theit sex. The
magiHraies apprised of the business, oidered out
the fire engines, which smartly among the 0
ladies, with a copious ftreatn of foot and water. 1
They were soon so whimsically bedaubed, and ren- fe
dered so completely ridiculous, that they made a
hasty retreat amidst the (houts, hoots,'and peals of
laughter of those very persons who had assembled
to second their attack, and avail themselves of the b<
magifttates supposed dilemma and cosfufion. This n(
new method of clear Itarching, might poflibly, on
certain occasions, be adopted in with ex- th
Ceediog good effect. *
_ The clothiers of Yorkshire are in the mod flou- v. ;
rifliing state of business ; all the competition in the th
foreign maikets being entirely put an end to, and a ah
species of monopoly gained to our manufadturers. co
MENTZ, May 15. cl,
is molt esichantingly situated on the
Rhine, where it receives the Mein ; its site is truly fa<
grand ; and the city, forming a complete amphi- cit
theatre, commands a most luxuriant profpeft. sol
Mentz being 4 Roman ecclefiatlical state, is, of oft
cburfe, not very populous. The nobility have all ab.
fled; and were it not for the number of military coi
in garrison, the place would be a defari. The En
Archduke leaves this town 'very abundantly fur
nilT.ed with ail means of defence. The fortifica* red
tions which eoft the Fiench so much money and rec
labour, were never in so refpeftable a state as at wit
the present moment; and they may, with truth,
be said to bid defiance to-the most extraordinary
efforts of the eliemy, The French are, as they pla
should be, very sincerely detested by all the inha it p
bitantsof \his fortrefs : to receive a visit from that to <
barbarous banditti, and to abhor them, is the ef- tha
fedl of the fame moment. con
Field Maifhal Von Neu is the governor of Metttz.' thei
It is extremely difficult to obtain permission to flop Icac
in the town, even people having refpeftable pasT- the
ports are not allowed to be about head quarters j by I
every mark of attention, however, is paid to the whi
beaters of a passport issued by the British govern ftar<
tnent. Last THefday, a person of a very military of I
appearance was taken up here, on fnfpicion of be- com
ing a spy. The town major recogmzed him to have
been a priva e soldier in his own company ;he pas 1
fed himfelt off for a superior officer in Priefs' rejji- vre I
ment. As it is cleaily proved that he is one of the
Jourdan's emissaries, it is well known what fate a- T
waits him. 1
Colonel Crauford is expe&ed here every day ; 011 tl
he has been to pay his devours to Louis XVIII. failei
who is now witbahe Prince of Conde's army, Co- and ;
lonel Crawford, fleam, is as great a favorite with expe
the Imperial army, as he wag among the native L
troops in Flanders. On Friday a British courier in tl
passed through this place, having government dif- the ]
patches for that brave and refpeiflable officer; be glifh
, was advised at head quarters to take the route to
the Prince of Conde's army, which he did without
losing a moment. /
Serious are the rumours in circulation here.
Some people will have it, that the Pruflian, Han- Tl
overian and Brunfwick troops, are destined against ing n
Holland, in favor of the Stadtholder, and by no of a n
means, to form the cordon of neutrality; while o. Portt
theri pretend that his punic majesty proposes gene Mi
roufly to give away Brabant and Flanders to the cover
ioufe of Orange, and leave Holland to be a de- plaint
graded province of France: I'^
The Emperor, it is confidently said, will come Th
to the army in the coutfe of the next month. r fh
The park of artillery before the archduke's quar. was a
ters is beyond description graHd ; it chiefly conSfls must I
of the guns taken from tlie French, when they some <
were fhamefully driven from their lines,.in the en- fcraoe
vironsof this city. chsfec
Citloael Williams, who, with his floating bat- some
tery, so effectually annoyed the enemy on the a- gold n
bove memorable oecafior,, is considered here with Mr,
the hi" belt cliftindion. When the glorious affair cles, x
of last October is mer.tioi.ed, his name is altvays not pe
coupled v.ith that of the iliuftrious Clerfayte, the cafe w
Giviour cf his Empire. Colonel Williams has two ant vva
hundred Italian sailors undu his ccmraandj they j with I
call hiafi their father, anil would all willingly die
in Ins defence.
LONDON, May 27.
The alarm on the fubje<st of bad news from In
dia has subsided ; the fall in the price of the com
pany'* stock is ascribed to the fuppofin'on, that the
fleet which failed in February from the Texel, will
effe"£L its passage so India-—This (lock has bow-
Eat 1 ever again risen.
tment DUBLIN, May 25. ;
ation, Letters from New-York, of a recent date, :dvife,
ained that it was generally apprehended there, thzt the I
arl of, eonduft of the commanders of the British (hips :
of war in impVeffing seamen out, of American vef- 1
ionics fels, and seizing of American ships laden witl pro- t
ty to vifiotis, were the Itrong grounds on which the rloufe
ferlie of Representatives in Congress refufed tp give eft
ild be fedt to the treaty between Great-Britain a*d the c
Lord- United States of America, and that au open t'up- f
thou- turc would take place between the two couurries. I
, be- - * c
if his BELFAST, May 27. 5
The general el«dtion in England, isat present r
w all the older of the day, and surely a wondirful farce c
{h to it is. The different addresses of the candidates f
bar- which crowd the columns of the Londin papers, »
hole, are fubjefts of no trifling amusement ; tley abound a
with profeflkrns of "duty," "love of country," v
, fail " attachment to general and particular interests," t
, but Sec. &c. &c. when it is notorious thit the nine- f
e the tenths of these very candidates are oiiy pursuing u
vered their own interells, and that the price of a feat in c
the house is much more accurately afccrtained than
umps the price of a bullock in Smithfield ; rruch more tl
: the accurately we may fay, for the price o a bullock n
arch- depends upon his comparative value ; vhereas all ©
ttom feats are of equal value. The member or Old Sab
rruti- rum, where fearce the vestige of a hoife is to be f<
». at seen, and whose cleftors are, we beleve, five in tl
jlical number, and those, the mean creatures if the pro
-1 de- prietor, tells as well as the members fa Yorkshire,' n
effels whose inhabitants may amount to 8«o,ooo, and ci
whose extent is equal to the -provinc# of Ulster. f<
ir « ld ! -fl
truf. ated ? ' b
he May 30. (j
out Stocks have undergone a considerable depreffi- h
the on—3 per cent, consols were as low as 61 12. re
iter. Thareis no farther account of the Fleet being at I'
ren- sea. 6 tf
de a f. (
m°! rp PARIS, May 14. Tc
bled The discOvery of the confpirary which has just
the been disconcerted was made in the following man- di
L his ncr.
on A man as a citizen, was recruiting on
ex- the Boulevards. A gunner met him and demandsd
by whole orders he acted. The former hesitating,
• ou. was taken before the minifler of the police. He Ot
the there discovered the whole of the confpitacy, as
ida alarming from the political rank of some of the
ers. conspirators, as from the numbers of citizens of all
cliffes who were marked out as itt victims.
the The marine minister has received the most satis
uly factory news from the windward lfiands. The new
>V ''- citizens are divided into two clafTes—cuhivators and
:ft. soldiers. On the 20th Nivofe, and the ift Pluvi
of ofe, there were two battles. In the fifll the Enghfh
all abandoned their artillery and magazinjs ; she fe
ary cond terminated with the complete defeat of the
he English. ,
ur- Carnot, it appears, was the member of the Di
ca- rectory who disclosed the greatest energy under the
re . cent ctrcumftances. He is therefore attacked
at with the utmost fury by the Jacobins.
May ij.
iry The Journal des Hommcg Libres wprefents the
ey plan of the conspiracy as ridiculoui and absurd :
ia it pretends that it would have required 60,00 c men
nt to carry it into execution ;as if we did not know
:t- that all the enmesof the whole revolution have been
committed by a handful of mifcieants, who, bv
z. {heir audacity, paralyze all virtuous men, and mif
yp lead the credulous and ignorant multitude ; as if
the maffa*res of September were not committed
s; by five or fix hundred men, in the heart of Paris
le while the great body of inhabitants remained in a'
" ru ftupefaflion ;as if the authors of the lift
y of May had mote than two or three thousand ac
s- complices!
'r - May 16.
f Ihe division detained so long in fbe port of Ha.
>'f th UVt Eour corvettes failed on'
! Th 7 f r'r u r f tW '° fri^tes on ,he ioth.
ihe whole of the afternoon of the 20th (Mar
u r J r ' n ?n can "°" Wa " heird at ttle Hague
; on the fide of Barfleur. In the evening a fqnadron
. faded in good order ; a fair wind rose in the night
1- and a speedy junction with Admiral Van Stabel is
(1 expected. s
C In f^ m . T AIe PP°» r «<3 on the 29th of April
r n the Dutch National AflVmbly, an ß ounce, thn
" rl P l'. Vat "" ° f Maurh, ' lls have taken twelve En
e g ifh ships richly laden, on their return from China. Y(
t COURT of KING'S BENCH, ?Xh
T r ■ Weftminftjr, May 9. We t
ti. 1 • -J v * Kinfmjn. e t
■ . The plaintiff ,s a Jeweller and Silver Smith, liv- but' f!
ing near Charing Ctofs, and the defendant, the son our 0
: plrj;^: fortunc ' ioUpperSeymow
Mr. Mingay said this action was brought fro te- S,oo"
cover the sum of 441 . fdr articles furnifhll by the S\
■ plaintlffto the defendant in the way of his trade. better
1 he defendant pleaded infancy. A
The fn' nt,fFre P licd ,hst 'hey were neceffarics.. K-t"er
she fiift article that was mentioned in the bill ihrea'
was a tongue scraper. The learned Counsel said, he wi h
must beware of beginning with a foul tongue a : W
some ot his, learned friends might fend him aL " to use
scraper. There were four tooth sick caf« £" /
chafed by the defendant in one week. There were 1 ers L
tXJS&r' p,lrofGdd S3
Mr. Mingsy candidly admitted that these art! f«T
cles, with regard ,0 the bulk «f mankind could '
not perhaps be considered at ncceffarics. But this en j
cafe was particularly circumstanced. Tlie defend *
° f am " of Vf, 7 K. fonuiie, d g T h ft
w Ith his fcthtr'j pernxiffiea living cn a very large a l- ere. '
, f •
!y die Icvvance, in a stile of elegance »i.d ft. (li. suable dissi
pation, in Upper Sc j mvm: Sin U. I'l.is defendant
who was an adult, went to tlie (hop or this tradef
>m In- man, recommended hy a cultomrr. He happened
; com- to want a few months of the agi of 21, and his
lat the client could not look into his mou:H to difcoverthat
■I, will he was not of age. There was one article in this
bow- bill which he hoped the Jury would coolider as ne
ceflary, ant! that was a pair of buckles ; unlffs they
(hould be of opinion that he, being the son of a
gentleman, ought to wear fhoe-llrings.
advise, It. appeared from the evidence of the plaintiff a
st the shopman, "that thefearticles had been purchased in
i (hips 1793. wht-n the defendant lived in his father's house
a vef- and it did riQt appear that his father was at all privy
I pro. to. this trSrifaftien.
rloufe Mr. Er/kine, for the defendant, observed that
ve ef- the interePs of the puttie were deeply concerned in
d the cases of this fort, and paid a very just tribute of, ,
1 riip- praise to the ncrble and learned judge who fat ©n the
ies. bench, for the eminent service Irfe had done to the
* country, by his direflions to juries on such fubrjecta. |
He put it to the jury as grave, decent, and moral ,
resent men, whether it was ccmfiflent-with the principles j
farce of trade arid commerce, that a tradesman (hould
idates furnifh a very young man, who he knew was living ,
spers, with his father, with a great number of expensive
jound articles, not for himfelf, I)lit probably for women f
try," with whom he was connedted, when it was his duty
efts," tp have applied his money to very different purpo- t
nine- fes. It was an insult to the human understand- v
suing ing to suppose that these articles eould possibly be f]
•at in considered as neceffariesw
than Lord Kenyon told the the single question i;
more they had to decide was, whethei these articles were j
illock necessaries. It was .rot for them to inquire con
js all cerning the good sense of the law, which ibey were f (
d Sa- bound toadminifter. But if they were at liberty
to be so to do, he presumed they would be of opinion g
ir e in that the law could not be put on better grounds j,
pro- than those upon which it now flood. If the law did f.
(hire,' not protedl infants, then all the junior part of the a
, and community would be unprotected. The law there
after. fore threw a V" • 'tinfant JKvere im-
pmiewt. and contracted debtsaTTgrtttey t ;
preci- ~ao r at 9, and might be weighed down by debts „
before they were aWe to take care of themselves. The £
law on this fubjeft was founded in good sense and ft
>reffi- humanity, in permitting infants to cofltrafl for f,
[ 1 2. meat and drink,becaufe otherwise they might llarve.
ng at ft was in fulling the Jury to argue that the items in
these bills were necessaries. If they were to be con- <
ftdered in that light, the rising generation would l
soon be undone.
just The Jury, after examining this bill, found aver- c.
man- dift for the plaintiff for iol.
' c;
> °n From a Vermont Paper.
radsd e<
ting, A N E L E G T
He On John Bird M'lntosh, fin of Major Duncan M' l'J
", as lntejb, of Cafileton, <wbo ivas droqyned in Cajileton
the "W. on the 17th of May, 1796, at the age bj 4
f all fears and 6 months. 11<
. . THO children in beauty appear
atrs Like the flowers of Spring in therr bloom ;
new Tho' they feel not a sorrow nor fear. to
and Yet they soon may be laid in the tomb. an
uv i The misfortune of yesterday fhew3 w '
'h(h How vain are the joys that we prize; mi
N r And the Mefhngs tha; give usrepofe, m;
t h e May be luddeul y fnatch'd from our eyes. f a)
At an hour when the weather was fine, loc
Di. by his parents was seen,' hai
, " His y'jutliful companions to join,
the In some innocent sports on the green. '
ked But quickly, (oh! painful to tell.') f"
With his mates to a river he ftray'd,
from a bridge o'er its furface he fell, ma
the And is nuln ber'd to day with the dead. like
d ; Our life is, alas 1 like a dream,
len And death wakes our fouls into day:
ow ehiid, I was that furious ltream,
.^ n ''• at wafted thy spirit away 1
hv rJ I ,'°l ttly wittl luch fortitude glow'd, I"
./ thy nature,was aflive and brave,
•r T , e i the ftreara with such violence fiow'd, J. 1
s if I hy urength was deftroy'd by the wave.
Ed By the willows that grew on its fide, V„
rs, Thou waft floated along, and waif drown'd : per,
3 °n. some 3 ders, immers'd in the tide,
I ft i ny cold little body was found. Au
IC - . How vain were the effirts of art,
in attempting thy life to restore !
Ah ! Death had so wounded thy heart, It
J hy heart could have motion no more. k
Jn n " Vln g' 6° v,ew tile pale cheek, Unit,
1 h " grae'd with a blulh from his birth :
' 1 , ol " l P Bcan with eloquence fpeaV. I.
iho now they must moulder in earth! »at<
Jc v ora Death and from silence they cry, of 1,1
)n id thaughtlefs, ye gay, and ye braue,
t, yo" may suddenly die, 3°° f
i 3 And to-morrow be laid in the grave ! fi "e p
il WALPOLE (N. H.) August 2 noirfi
" To 1M R 1 RIFLE. m -
Sir, fubfer
YOU v,;ll pleafc to accept the bed thanks of l«un
your b'ethren of tk scythe and pitchfork, in my V
neighbourhood, for your goodly words of advice. ci P al 1
We did not, like Jotham Winrow's fellow labour- J? ancr
ers fend or intoxicating flip lo drink your health,
- but sedately over flrong beer and mellow cider of South
n our own making, drank success to the fa'mer and
, spared our money for bet-flr uses. lam a sworn I
foe to rum and every flavin liquor, that (laves '
- rrnport or (laves create. Would neighbour Peevish ,0 r
e ll: r' s . foul , and hod y to ° would Hand a 60 bah
ter chance ; the othet day, as he and his hired eonfift
man drained a bowl of grog, t0 enable them th
■ hetter to prlch a Idad of Tiay, a (hower began ,0
, threaten a What did thrs man of grcg
- with an exp-effion somewhat like that of Job's wife
s but take a fare brand, and apply it to his dry hay^
to uiehis own speech, to baulk the rain ; this im
; -piety fprmgfron, rum. The multiplicity of fl low .
j ers ought, by no means, to provoke a murmuring
i ' ""ft ! f y Wet " Ur . thf y "'crease th! Auc,
j grow th of our corn, tur nip, and potatoes ; they -
: fertilize our paftur.s, fwcll the udders of our cows
and lay a better rhicknefg upon the ribs of our ox
en ; and we can get hay fufficient on half the
ground we formerly did. C
1 hS r Umi h TOak " bad and poor farm r
er,. V\ henever I find a Jacob,n, I ju-'Je thct he
k diffi- has becu adulterated and perverted by fom e(l f •!
tendant mobs io our lea ports, or feels found toward
trades- good government, because the ufc of ftrotjp- £ r '
ppened has rendered hi& life uu'taiy, by making hj, f
and liis tune defperate.—Wheiiev:;i I call on a fkrm^
/er:hat readily fee liim pull out a full bottle, 1 T\
in this profpfrity, I look into hij paltures, and fee a(Z
ras ne- poor cows, poor fence., and plenty of briifh
•fsthey thirties. His corn withers for want of feafor ' •
)ii of a hoeing; his w;fe has little butter and no cheeiV
and its odds, but a (tariff raps at his door before f
lintiff'j get out of his hcttlfe; Ihew me your nerVhbom'i
afed in bottle, and I'll tell you how he prospers. °
s house CALEB WHEATEAR.
1 privy —
It is sir bet! It is charuikg ! It is bsavtifol.
1 that THE words'/war/, charming. and beautiful, arc
rned in 0 f peculiar use in the sublimely-vague dialed 0 f
ute of fetitiment; for by havjng l) 0 meaning at all in
en the application, they may be made to mean any thin.-,
to the Narciffa had just returned from her evening rami
bjects. hie, when, to be sure, (he had had a charmiti»
moral walk, the moon (hone fiveitly, and it was a beauti.
nciples /„/ n ight.
(hould Moll had beat the dog 'till (he had raised the
living w l, o l e family with his bowlings. W hen enquiry
lenfive wss ma( j e> w f, at the difficulty was ? Behold ! the
women f aua y brute had (pilt a beautiful pail of swill.
s ° ut y Goody Truckle, if (he could have walked on
'urpo- t h' ree now> half as wall as (he could once on two,
i"k ,iave ta ' ie " Goody Trott down cellar, to have
'■y (hewn her a charming barrel of pork.
It was expe&ed that the speckled pullet would
!on lay two eggs a day, because Johncy had built a
3 were f we t hen-roost.
con ' A connoisseur only could have undeiftood the
were •
? c . rt y Says Ned to don'c you think this Mifg
union Snip a char mi n- little toad?— Not so very agreea.
ounds hie, neither, fays Jack. You mistake, brother,
w djd fays Ned, (he dresses sweetly, her form is charming,
the an( j fb e tings beautifully.
'here- Strangets fometinjes make gross mistakes.
SiJmr • k\>L-pr-v.' a little
dehts t,me ; • y application had acquired a geod
ri»i grammatical knowledge of our language. He had,
; * by his own enquiries, and of his in!
" a ttru&or, found out that the epithet sweet, had re-
I Irenes to the /m?// or tafic; charming to form-thing
. • vocal; and beautiful to foqie vifihle object ; that it
■Tol" W3S thorcfore P ro P er to fa y a sweet tajic, or a sweet
vould y a, " 0r > * forming Jager, a beautiful pr,fp e a, or a
beautiful woman —With all this information, how.
r Cr ' he Was en,irc, y unacquainted with the more
ralhionable application of these terms, which alone
can apologize for the following blundtfr
His landlady, among other specimens of her
I economy, was one day expatiating oo her frugali
ty in having fatted a hog by the flops aid crumis
i]t ] lt " r own saving, and con luded this panegyric
Tleten by dedarin S ,!>at il was a t>'"utful hog.—Monlieur
t>J 4 I f(? 'd her that he had been in the countty but a lit'
| tie time, had seen btst a few of its curiofniea, and
I that it, would make him very happy to fee her beaa-
I tiful hog, Upon the approach of his benefactor
I to the yard, this paragon of ugliness, diflfonance,
J and stench, accosted her with his ufusl melody,
which, however, at this time, hunger had nnde
j more fwwrous than ever.—There, fays
I madam, is not this a beautiful hog? Why, madam,
I fays he, with a liitle amazement, I have seen hogs
look veiy fcuch like him before ; do you call him
j handsome ? But, Monsieur, is it not a charming
1 hog ? Upon my honour, madam, he does make a
| grunt exaaiy like our hogs. But, fay, Monsieur,
» fays madam, is is uot a ftocet hog? Sweet ! he
j may tajle very well; but by Gar he does fmelljuft
] like our hogs in France.
PROPOSALS,
j (By .William Cobbett, oppofi:e Uhrift Church, Phila
delphia, for publilhir.g byfubfeription,
l"he History of Jacobinism;
Its CRIMES, CRUELTIES and PERFIDIES,
j /"COMPRISING an Inquiry into the manner of difl'emi-
I Vvi rating, under the appearance of Philosophy and
j virtue, principles which are equally of Or
j P er > Viitue, Religion, Liberty and Happiccfs.
I By WILLIAM PLAYFAIR,
| Author of the Commercial and Political Atlas, &c.
With an Appendix,
BT PETER PORCUPINE,
I Shewing the dole connexion which has ever -kibfiUcdt
j b«tAvecn the Jacoßlns ; at Paris axid the iJeinocratb in the
j United States of America.
CONDITIONS.
J I. This new, entertaining and inftru&ive work, which
I is at once a history of Jacobinism and a complete history
J of the -French revolution down to the end of 1795, will
I c of two volumes, o&avo, each containing about
I J OO P^o €s * fhali be well printed, on a new type and
I fine paper.
I 11. The price of each volume, bound in boards, will be
I One foliar and a Quarter, paid for on delivery ; and to
j non fubi'cribers, a Dollar and a Half.
I 111. As soon as a Sufficient number of copies lhall be
I fubfcribedfbr, the work will be put to the press, and fin-
ifhed as expetVtioufly as a ftrici attention to neatness and
3f I accuracy will admit of.
y I *#* Subscriptions taken by the publilher, and the prin-
I c^P Booksellers of Philadelphia ; Meflrs. Spotfwood and
I Nancredeof Boston ; Mr. Rivingtoh of New-York ; Mr.
Rice of Baltimore ; MefTrs. Pritchard and Davidfon of
Richmond, Virginia; and Mr. Young of Charleston,
n South Carolina. Aug.
d— — —
n s India Goods at Audlion.
, AN Friday next, at io o'clock in the morning, will be
'vy fold at auction, at No. 56 South Fror.t-flrect, ahout
a 60 bales of India whife Goods, entitled to the drawback,
j consisting of— *
Long Cloths •
j Baftas
Gurrahs
' Emerties
' Cofiaes
1 Hiimhums
T injfibs «
Mull Mulls. ,
Edward Fox, Au&'r.
Aug.ia.
Landing,
From on board the Schoontr Expedition,
St. Croix Rum&Sugar,
For Sale by F. COPPINGER,
•Aug. 11 § !2i South Front-itrcet-•' -» r ' ■™wil I I IH IB I ■ ■■ I ■ II
G AZETTE Of tbe IJNITED STATES,
i -— — '«
• P H I L A D E L P H I A :
FRIDAY EVENING* AUGUST 12.
i l.on'o>> papers to the Sth June, inclusive, contain the
fnl'ovji'i intelligence.
On the nth May General MafTena r ed Milan—on
the nth the tri-colored cockade was hoisted by the inhabi
tants. Fhe dutchy of Modena purchased peace by pay*
ing ten millions of livres and !our mil. 1 nil in provisions.
On the 20th May, Bologna was in the poffclllon ol the
Trench. French privateers-omroiflioned by Salicetti tr.fce
all Austrian and Romau veffeU they meet in the Meoitcr ■
ranean. fheLondon Courier states that the vi&ories of j
the French are marked with moderation, and that their
armies preserve the Arid eft discipline. The Courier of j
the Bth June contains a full'rcpor; of the Debate of the
House of Representatives of the United States on the Bri- !
tifh treaty. The Star, of June 7, diyiiioo of
the Toulon fleet had eluded the vigilance ef the Engliih, *
*ud had arrived on the Genoese coast.
LONDON, June 7.
At theclofe of the Poll this day, the numbers were
For Mr. Fox, 333»'
AdmiraljGardner, 33 21
Mr-Tooke, 1078
Mr. Fox, in afpeech which he delivered after the clafe,
lamented and reprobated an insult to admiral Gardner,who
had been attacked in his carriage the preceding^night.
We learn'a London paper of the 17th June ii received
by the Farmer, and that it contains accounts of several,
bloody actions pn the Rhine, in which the French were 1
victorious.
authentic.
Extradl of a letter from General James Wilkinfon to
the Secretary of War, dated Greenville, July 16,
1796.
" I have the very great pleasure to inform you, that
in confcquence of my orders and arrangements Lieut
Col, Harrtramr.k on the nth inft. actually difplaved
the American Itripes from Fort Miami, and embarked
ilic* fame day with about 400 men for Detroit, of which
place I have no doubt he is now in pofleffion.
" I congratulate you, Sir, on this for
event, which cannot fail to excite, the moll lively plea
lure in the public mind, because it i» pregnant
confequenies, IwpTily intcreiflng to Hie national weal.
£auia<Sl us ■ letter from Captain Henry "Be "Butts to
' the Secretary of War, dated Detroit, July 14, 1796.
" It is with very great pleasure I do inyfelf the ho
n«r of announcing to you that oh the iitli inft. about
noon, the flag of the United States was displayed on
the ramparts of Detroit, a few minutes after the works
■were evacuated by Col. England and the Bri.igi troops
under his command , and with additional fatisfadlion
I inform you that the exchange was effected with
much propriety and harmony by both parties,"
TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN.
A person who frequently travels the German
town roao, complaint of an abominable practice
that prevails of putting dead horses on the lots
near the city in the Northern Liberties, where
they are fuffered to lay until the flefh rots off their
- bones or they are devoured by dogs; but in the
mean timethcairiscondantly infufed with a mod,
horrid stench, to the great annoyance and danger
of paflengers and the neighbourhood ; for it will
fee welf if it is not the occasion some day of a ma
lignant disorder.
He further mentions, that on palling the Fourth
ftreet outlet, his nodrils are always highly regaled
Wy_a large, itog-kennel, not an' hundred
miles from Meredith's tan yard
1 foefe remarks are intended for a good purpose,
and it is to be hoped that tliofe who are more im
mediately concerned will take the hint and Hop the
progress of such disagreeable and dangerous nui
sances.
Augud ri, 1796.
By the J'f'ph, from Liverpool, -we have received a
number of London papers :—the following from
the Morning Chr'oniclcof May 19, appears to be
the only interejling article contained in them.
LONDON, May 19.
It appears that the SifTatisfaftion of the House
of Representatives at the conduit of the President
in not laying before them the proceedings relative
to the late treaty concluded with this country, is
by no means removed- They consider their condi
tut.onal privileges violated by his refulai, and their
refentraent of the supposed affront may have the
effect to dedroy the good undei(landing between
the government and legislature, aodjierhapS excite
a ipirt of difeftnieni, which it will require all the
wisdom and prudence of thje Prelidetit to appease.
But the lad reiliition, both in its imputed cause
and probable confequj-ices, is more dire&ly inte
retting to this country. Since the beginning of
war the complaints of America on the coriduft or
ourcruifers in the Welt-Indies, have been loud and
orgent; yet, whatever gnfwer may have been made
to the remonstrances of the United States, the
continuance of the injustice augurs no disposition
fairly and completely to take away all appearance
°f Sggreffion, and every ground of dispute. Of
the madness and Impolicy of allowing a just cause
of complaint to remain, which, from the date of
the minds of some people in America, would be
converted into the ground of a quarrel to be dread
ed equally by both countries, it is unnecefiary to
fay a word. To inflame their minds at such a mo
ment as this, by toleiating the injuries of which
they complain,' is a conduct of which no confide.-
ration of annoying the power of which we are at
war <?an juftify. If the sentiments of the House
of Reprclentatives are hostile to the treaty, yet
their refufnl to give it their authority is placed, not
upon its difadvaniages and its facrifices, which
declare they would have waved, but upon the at
tacks made by the Britilh government npon the
freedom of their commerce, and the rights of their
neutrality. The reasons of the resolutions they
ave passed, have been fairly and openly dated and
avowed. 'It remains for the miniftera of this coun
try, either to remove the oflenfible cause, or to
turntfh additional arguments for their refufal. By
denying that redress which, if their facts be ad
nutted, the United States of America are entitled
'oc aim, the feeds of aconted mod calamitous to
thjscountry, may be Town ; and the minister Ihould
recollect that he tray hazard something more than 1
' e bare ratification of a treaty, from which he '
turned so much credit, and predicted so much ad
vantage. If past experience be eonfulted, this ,
I - V-'- -- - - - *!§EL
country, we may be allured, will be indebted more
, moderation of the American government,
in avoiding the threatened rapture, than to the'
wisdom of our own adu inillration ; for who but
the prefeht ministers would, by aggrefilons fubfe
quent to the treaty, thus endanger the good 08-
e derftandirg which had already been so nearly inter
rupted, byre;i!wing injuries not yet forgotten, and
awakening-pafDons not properly allayed.
abm -«r»i urn 111 m«wu—
e BY THIS DAY's MAILS.
c
f SALEM, Augud 5.
r FROM THE CAPE OF GOOD HOPE.
e : Yesterday morning arrived from thence, Captain
. Jonathan Lambert, jun. via. St. Helena.—Late
f accounts at the Cape, confirm the capture of Cey
i, • lon, and it was expe&ed by the British, that they
(hould soon have pofieflian of Batavia, and all the
Spice-islands— doubts arose in many minds with
refpedt to Batavia. About the 23d of April the (
Carisford frigate arrived in 58 days from England, ,
she brought credentials} coodituting Gen. Craig ,
governor, &c. of the Colony, which he is well a flu- ,
0 red extends Ead to the western part of Delago i
J bay, in long 31, 10, ead—north, to Cape
lin lat. 16, 2, south—so that.our fifherie6 aredepri- ,
tl. ved of that plentiful supply of Oil, which may be,
e j and is yearly taken in Woolwich and St. Helena 1
bays. A considerable land force was expected out
every day at the Cape, to keep the farmers in awe 1
0 is one ol.jedl of .it, as they are deemed a mutinous
, fct "f men, who are continually railing infurredi
6ns for evil purposes, &c. Arrived at St. Helern ,
t the l6th May, and soon after anchoring was treat-,
■ sacs ceremony to a fight of the Commodore,
Ellifoß. On the til of June, Cipt. Ellifoßj of
the Standard, as Commodore, with. 23 India and
China ships, two Whalers, and the Ship America,
r Capt. Woodward, frotn Bourbon, who put in lea
- ky, failed for Europe—4B hours after Capt. Lam
h bert permhTcJ 10 fail.
-—•• FEDERAL REPRESENTATIVE.
1. There will not, in all probability, be any choice
. at this trial. From Marblehead we learn, (hat the
t votes were, for S. Sewall, Esq. 52— J. Norris, Esq.
1 .3®' —Beverly, they were nearly unanimous for
s Elias H. Derby, j an. Efq.—ln Danvers, we learn,
* that they were unanimous for' Captain Jona. Ingcr
k foil.—ln Middleton, do. for Mr. Sewall We
have not heard from any other towns in the dif
triift. The only candidates at the next trial, will
be, it is conje&ured, Samuel Sewall, Esq. and Capt.
. Jonathan Ingerfoll.
c A correspondent informs us that the vote in
s Middleton was unanimous for Samuel Sewall, Esq.
e His urbanity, integrity and talents have probably
r secured to him the votes of his fellow-citizens in
e general
r BOSTON, Augud 6.
ll From the COLUMBIAN CENT IN EL.
The fuccefles of the French on the Rhine, a3
well as in Italy, are confirmed ; and the wreath
- that entwines the brow of Jourdan, threatens to
i equal in verdure riiat which encircles the head of
i Buonaparte. In all the vic'iflitudes of the French
Revolution,—in all the druggies of parties for pre
', eminence—the French armies have remained infltx
- ifely pure. We have ofteo mentioned, with applause,
e the exhibit ions of their patriotic, and of their en
- tire devotion to the cause of their country. Nor
will we now be indebted to any other for in elegant
eulogium on them, than one of their own country
men—who forcibly felt what his heart'didated his
a tongue to utter. We have procured the trarfla
n tion of the following
■e EULOGY ON THE FRENCH ARMY,
And we present it to our readers as a monument
of brilliant imagery—of correct and chade fancy—
which does honor to the translator, and places him
e far above the cavils of envy, or the fq.uibs of party
t politicians. ,
e The Eulogy pronounced at Paris, is as follows
s \v HAT an immortalluftre is filed by the laurels
!• of vi&ory ; especially when they are engrafted on
r the scion of the beloved Olive. Oh ! thou '
e daughter of Heaven ! Divinity cherished by maii
-11 kind—the glory and prosperity of Empires the
e strength of States, desired PEACE !—Soon wilt
e thou reign amon?ft Frenchmen 1 Soon our fortu
:. r.ate Republic will resemble a delightful isle which
e fees the irritated waves of the ocean expire on its
fliores ; which enjnys an eternal spring, and which
i, nature embeliifhes with its riched gifts !
f Generous Warriors f The elder sons of the Re
i public 1 The honor of the French name ! It is
e you who will close the temple of Janus ! It is
e you who will give peace to the world, and to whom
n your country will owe all its happiness.
e Patriot Soldiers ! Your fellow citizens prepare
f your crowns—they will go to meet the conquer
e ors—they will surround the train, chaunt your ex
f ploifs, and teftify to you their love and their grati
s tude.
Already the adonifhed universe pays you the
j tribute of eulogium and admiration due io your
- warlike achievements :—Even your enemies cf
i teem and fear you.—They celebrate your courage,
• your condancy, your attachment to your country, 1
t and the example you have furnilhed of military :
; virtues.
t Oh ! may the charms of glory, like the laurels of 1
, viiftory, deck the brow of the patriot-soldier ! How
r sublime ; how truly -worthy of envy, is that noble.at
tachment of the Republican, whose terrible arm de
fends his habitation, his relations, his friends, and the '
: country which gave him birth. He does not echo the
' ftriek of vengeance and fury—terrible in combat, he
strikes the haughty, carries terror into the battalions of (
| the enemy, and overturns squadrons : —Magnanimous
art of viitory 1 Humanity meets him npon the homi
cidal theatre ; where, united, they console and relieve
' the conquered f»e, and repair the affirightful mifchiefs
produced by the fatality of circumstances, or by the 1
terribie laws of necessity. <
Where is the citizen, who does not speak of our 1
, warriors with affedlion ? Who does not fee all the im- ]
portance of the facrifices they have made to their coun
try? Who is not astonished at that hereic courage ; at
that coEftancy, and tbofe surprizing exploits, which '
the annals of hiflory will repeat to our Uteft posterity ! f
He fees in our br;ve brothers in arms, his friends, his '
children, his whole family.—He (beds tears upon their 1
e wounds—Jirticlprifei tfc<sir privation?, fie follows them i
into combat—by his wifiies hp would arrest the fan- ,
e ' guinary ball, and preserve therii all to their country. (
, t In the raid ft of snows, and of froft—upon moun
tains of ice, surrounded by enemies—keeping on thy
earth—deprived of fufficient fubCltence, what has '
'■ been the rondnft of those Warriors! No fooaer does
thechrionof war found, than they seize their terrible I
d arms, and fly to vi&ory, or to death ! What noble mo- <
tives animate them ! What produces in their fouls this
lively enthusiasm I It istheiove ofoui country, which
doubles our physical force, multiplies brilliant anions,
produces patriots, heroes and great men. It is this
noble virtue—the aggregate of every other, without
which the warrior is only an zflaffin or a vile slave—
which guides the Republican soldier, and renders him
terrible to the enemies of his country.
Where is the citizen who can fill the heroic triim- I
n pet, whose masculine force can celebrate foch i«i
---e achievements ? Come forward, the patriot I
'* Writers; paint in traits of fire, theheroifru of our
1 warriois—charge yourselves with the gratitude of )
e your country—Sing their united civil and military t
'> virtues—celebrate our new Bayards, our Crillons, <
e our B-trkazens ! Happier than those great tjien, i
> they have fought only for their country. What a
? career opened to genius ! What an enthusiasm, what (
■ an intoxication, ought to inflame the song of the
3 defenders of the Republic !
> A few days more, and the citizen and the warri- •
- or, will enjoy an immortal glory ! Delightful peace
» will scatter our battallions into our vast and fertile
a fields. It will place in thtir victorious hands the
1 inflruments of husbandry, and those of the fine arts.
e Tiie heretofore destroying steel, will plough the
s earth, bring back industry and talents, and rtie re
* public will enjoy a double triumph ; —it will have
1 conquered its enemies by the force of its arms, it '
-• will furpafsrival nations by matter-piefces of taite and
! > genius.
Young Frenchmen ! You are celculated for eve
ry fpecics of glory, the laurels of the fine arts, and
'» thole of vi&ory, ought ever to shade your brows ;
'■ putfue your brilliant career! Alike the united def
- pots ; root out the impotent satellites of falling
JSOnjjcby ! crulh, piteoully, under you all the e
nemies of your country. A few days more, and
e your triumph is feeure—afew days more, and you
e will produee the happiness of all—you will give
j, peace to the world—you will enjoy the fruit of
„• your long and painful toils, and you will receive the
benediction of a numerous nation, who are indebt
. Ed to you for abundance, for peace, and for happi
e ness.
U Samuel Cabot, Esq. hr.s been appointed by
[. the Preiident of the United States, an agent to aid
the bufrnefs of the Commifftoners in London, on the
n British fpohations.
|. We learn that Citizen Adet, the French Am
y baflador near the United States is on a visit to this
n town.
1 lie hon Mr. Malbone, one of the .Reprefen
tativesin the Congrsfs of the United States, from
the State of Rhode-lfland, declines being consider
ed a Candidate at the next choicc. Christopher
s Grant Champlin, Esq. is nominated .s a Candidate,
jj From a CorrefpouJetit.
o That the Manufactures of our country have flou
tjHied under the operation of the Federal gorera
j mr»t, is so evident to every individual of the Uni
. States, that it were as fuperfluous to narrate
and detail the particulars, as t.> set about demonlVa
tingthat the meridian lun is the source of light and
! heat. None but the molt jaundiced eyed Jacobin
ir caff be si hardy as to deny it.
r _ Modern Patriotism.—lt seems by the Jaco-
j s bin papers, that Patiiotifm cor fids in belittking e
very thing American—describing the country as
ruined—its government corrupt —the people dupes
—manufactures decayed—commerce insulted—and
(l that instead of our country's exciting the love, it
_ ought to command the hatred of every man, wo*
n man and child. Such it the patriotic creed ef our '* ex
v clufive patriots."
r PITTSBURGH, August 6.
_ ExtraCt of aletterfrom a gentleman at Cincinnati,
| s to the printer of the Pittsburgh Gazette, dated
n J u] y '?> I 79 6 -
u "It is with pleasure that I inform you of the
h good news recsived yesterday from Detroit, by an
e express sent from Captain de Butts to General
[ t Wayne. The letter is dated July the I ft, and is
, in.these words—•
j, •' After a long and tedious paflage, besides hav
s ing been detained ten days at Fort-Erie by con
jj trary winds, I am fafe arrived here ; an express
from Lord Dorchcfter crofled with me in the fame
velTel from Fort-Erie, and brought orders to the
s commanding-officer to embark the troops immedi
s ately for Quebec, leaving only a captain with jo
n and a subaltern with 20 men, to take care of the
works until the American -troops arrived to take
, e pofiefliun of them. Every thing is right, and the
utmost harmony and politeness prevails. 1 can hire i
only three vefTeli to go over to bring our heavy ,
. b a gg a g c i &e. My (lay here has been so Ihort that ,
I have had no opportunity of getting any iuform- (
c ation worthy your attention.'' (
r " General Wayne has received difpatehes from
- Greenville ana Fort-Defiance, by which he is in
formed, that i detachment of .70 men, command
ed by Captain Porter of the corps 01 artillery, had
actually gone to take pofTefiion of Detroit, and
that Col. Hamtramck is in pofieflionof the Britilh
f fort at the rapids of the Miami."
NEW YORK, August 10.
ThefoHowing articles were received by the George
s Capt. Wegle, arrived here yesterday from Astigua.
e St. JOHN'S, (Antigua) July 19.
e Capt. John Stowe,late master of thefltap Bso
f thers Adventure, arrived here on Sunday and re
s por's as follows : That on Sunday the 10th July
. he failed from Martinique fa the said sloop bound to
s Bermuda, that on the next day he was taken bet
t ween Martinique and Dominico by a French schoon
er of 4.gOns (two of which were mounted) and 25
men, the weather being calm and the fchootier ma
king use of a great number of Sweeps. That he,
and his people were soon after put on board a Da
nish schooner which they met with, called the Peg
gy belonging to St. Croix, capt. WatTfngton, but
s bound to Montferrat, from whence he took his pas
sage to thisifiand. And capt. Stowe declares, on*
f '
i of the crew of the French schooner to!d him, tljat
on the preceding evening they weie in Martinique
load, and that a British 2iip of war hailed the m,
and after asking what fchouner it was, fuffered them
\ to depart.
s A report prevails, wh.Th we fear will prove true
that the Morning Star, capt. Bnrnes has bten taken
on her passage from hente to Martinique
s '
j GJSSTTK Ot THB VhTITfD STJTBS MARINE LIST.
t ■ ■
tniLADELP Hi A, 12.
This morning arrived here the foip farmer, C3p*
• tain M'Collom, from London.
The Farmer failed from London June 6, and
i frosnTorhay June 19.
ship Fa!& American, which had heen re
s ported to be loft, is stated in the June Bth\
r to have returued to London. She had been blown
, out of the J)owns on the Jift May, and loft her
, main and mizen malts, ■ anchors and cables.
1 The brig Columbia, ha 9 returned to p£>vt, in
: dilhefs.
ARRIVED,
DAYS
. Ship Joseph, Stone, Liverpool 7c
Farmer, M'Collom, London 52
Oniole, Sheffield, Bonrdenux 53
. Barque Providence, Junes, Havannah 19
, Brig Neptune, Town, Boston 14
. Experiment, Clark, St. Übes 48
Liberty, Ridge, do. 44
. Susannah, Orne, Nantz 53.
I Schr. Expedition, , St. Croix 10
| Sloop Point Packet, Lowell, Newbury-pott to .
The Jafeph left Lirerpool 2d June.
There it a ship below said to be the Atfive, Capt.
I Robertfen from St. Übes. Also two brigs one the
Sally, Mitchell, 42 days from Havre-de-Grace, the
' other the liibelU and Ann, Hawkins from Port-nu
■ Prince.
; The brig Peggy, I Iyer from Philadelphia was loft '
in the English Channel, about the firfi of lone, and a
] nother Philadelphia vefiel supposed to he the Harmony,
i Ship Peggy, Elliot from this port it arrived at Bour
deaux.
Arrivals at Ne'w-Tork.—AuguJ} It.
Ship Dauphin, Read, Montego.Bay
Brig Lydia, Speck, Nantz
George, Higby, Antigna
Fanny, Wilson, Cadiz
Schr Sunbury Packst, Harrifon, Port-au-Prince.
Capt. Speck from Nantz lfed a passage of 53
days. June 28, lat. 37, !©, Jpoke ship Ui.fortu
oate, of Boftoto, from Cadiz, bound to Bolton—
out 25 days. >
July 4, spoke a brig from Providence, R-I.bound
to the coast of Guinea, out 24 days, lat. 37, .07.
July 17, spoke brig Susannah, Orne, from
Nantz bound to Philadelphia, out 30 days. No
observation this day.
On the lit inft. spoke the Hull-Packet, from
Oporto, out 35 days, all well, lat. 29, long.
65. 34'
4th, spoke ship Juno, of New York, bound fur
Amsterdam, 3 days out, all well.
* Capt. Speck's vessel being in a leaky condition, •
kept company with the Susannah for fevcral days ;
and throup. the interceflion of the passengers, cap.
j tain Orne of the Susannah, very kindly took 14
ot them on board his vessel ; capt. Speck finding
" them with provisions and water.
Capt. Higby, of brig George, 19 days from
Antigua, lpoke, on the 2d mil. lat. 36, 34, long.
71 1-2, the schooner Mary, front Philadelphia,
bound to Martinico.
s The brig Fanny, Wilson, in 43 days frotn Ca
* diz, left there, fliip Factor, Kimp. who arrived
there 10 days before capt Wilson failed. Cap;.
' Kemp ftld his flour in Cadiz at a lower price than
it cost in New-York. He expedtei to fail in ten
• days after capt. Wilson.
Capt. Wilson, on the Jjth of July, spoke i
brig from Briflol for New-York, capt. Whittlefcy,
' out 45 days, with about 4.0 passengers, all well, lafc
3 37. l 7> Wng- 57. 13-
The French Fleet under the command, of Rich
e ery, was lying in Cadiz at the time of capt. Wil
son's departure, with their top-gallant yards and
' mails struck, but were well ltianned.
* The British admiral Mann was cruising off Ca
diz bay.
The sloop Maria, of New-York, was goiag in.
- to Port-au-Prince as capt.'Harrifon of the Sunbury
s Packet was coming out, 21 days ago.
: Djlnbury, (conn.) august 8.
° Capt. Betts and crew, of Wilton, dire£tly from
- the Weft-Indies, inform that after a severe thunder
-3 storm at sea, they heard the cry of human voices,
: in the utmoll distress 5 they took ta tJjeir boat, and
: soon found two men almolt drowned : these inform
: ed that there were three more somewhere in the sea
: under the fame distressed situation, without a plank
' or board to help themfelve* with. They continu
' ed thefearch, 'till they found them all, and carried
■ them fafe aboard. One.of these five men was a
captain, who said his vessel was (truck with light*
1 ning, and funk immediately. They all belonged
- to Baltimore.
BOSTON! AUGUST 8.
1 At the YVeftern Islands, June I—The Aftrei, Prince,
1 of Salem, for India; Jane Ingle, of Wifcaflet, for
1 Bristol, and Campbell, of Boston, for India.
BT AN A'-TIST,
Reftdent at Mr. Ocllers's Hotel,
• MINI ATURE LIKENESSES
ARE taken and executed in that elegant and delicate
fide, which isfo nec«ffary to render a Miniature Pic
. tu*e an intercfting jewel.
.. He will warrant a strong and indisputable rcfetr.-
3 blance; and he takes the liberty to lay betore the public
of this place his most earnest intention to deserve their pa
" tjonage by his best endeavors to pletde.
N. B. Specimens are to be seen.
j May 12. 5
Salt Petre.
A few tons of excellent
EAST-INDIA SALT-PETRE,
t FOR SALE BT
Samuel Breck, jun.
e Aug. 9. eo6 Rofs's Wharf.Cargo of the fliip Union Fraterna,; J
from Leghorn. raid 1
ON Friday next, at ro o'clock in the morning, on "'P'
Messrs. Rofs li Sim foil's wharf, will be fold by auc- "an V
tier, (and continued from day to day, 'till the whole is j! u I
fo'd) the cargo of the Venetian Ihip Union Fratera, front 1
Lrghrn, confifling of the following ?rticies.
Florence Oil in cases of la bottles, and flalks of 50
Caflile Soap in cases niedi.
Tallow Candles'
Anchovies
Capers
Olives
Juniper Berries in bales
Manna, Flukey Scbei
x Ditto, in forts • /
Almonds J
Perir.efan Cheese oj
French Claret, in casks ,
Ditto, in bottles *
Twine
Hair-Powder
Pomatum.
The conditions of sale will be—ill funis under scol.
tote paid in calh; from 500 to 100 dollars in approved
nptes at 60 days : from 1000 dollars upwards, in ap- —-—
proved endcrfed notes at 90 and tio days.
Edward Fox, Auctioneer. 1
Aaguft9 (
A Book-Keeper,
OR Clerk's place is wanted by aperfon properly quali
fltd, and whose character will bt found unexteption
»ble. Apply to the Printer.
jAdg- I' • -
FOR SALE,
WINE, London particular Madeira, 4 years old, 1(
is pipes and hogsheads
Claret, genuine old, in cases
Gin, in pipes, from Holland
Earthen "Ware, in crates y
Basket Salt, in hogsheads 4
Shot, Nos. 6, 7, 1 and 9
•Bar Lead, Red and white dry lead
Steel, German and Russia, in barrels
Anchor?, cables, junk, bunting, tarpolin canvas,
Tin plates—An invoice Stationary, by ,
THOMAS k JOHN KETLAND.
July 19 §
For Sale,
A Three (lory BRICK HOUSE-and Lot, in Ohefnut
street, between Front and Second streets, in which
Messrs. James Calbraith & Co. have for many years (and
now do) carried on bufmefs.
PofTeflion will be given in one month, or sooner.
•For terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or
HECTOR CALBRAITH.
■\pril 21. '■ • ' ■§
CABLES,
From 16 to 9 J inches, for sale by
Jeremiah Warder,
July II § No is north Third-street.
ELEPHANT.
This Animal is to te seen in High-Street, between 1
the Tenth and the Eleventh-Street.
HE will pofttively leave Philadelphia the tenth of Sep
tember, for Baltimore, in his way to Charleston, I 3
•where he will win'er -
ADMITTANCE Half a Dollar—quarter of 1 Dollar
for Children
The PANORAMA, or the VIEW of the CITIES of
LONDON and WESTMINSTER,
' Is to be open till the 10th of September, and the sub- |
jest will then be removed to Baltimore with the ELE- I
PHANT. . ;{
ADMITTANCE for the PANORAMA,
One quarter «>f a Dollar.
A'Jguft 3. H J
•> »■ i> ■ 1 i' "* " " I
Sales of India Goods.
The Cargo of the flrip Ganges, capt. Tirnjay, from Cal- J
cutta and Bengal,
CONSISTING or
A Large and general afTortment of Bengal and Madras I
COTTON and SILK GOODS. • j
AMONG WHICH ARE
A variety fine worked and'plain MuJlimA
Doreas, ts*«. Also,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar, J
In boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER,
For Sal? by I
Willing® fcf Francis, I
No. M-Penn Street. J
Jtme 8 , . S I
Lands of the' United States.
Treasury Department, dugufl 3, 1796.
Public No t ice is hereby Given,
IN pursuance of an ait of Congress, patfed on Uie 18th |
day of May, 1796, entitled "An ad providing" for I
thefateof the lands of the United States, in the Turrito- I
ry north weft us the river Ohio, and above the mouth of I
Kentucky river," that the fcfHons or lots of land defcri- I
bed in the annexed schedule, lying in the Teven ranges of J
townftiips, which »/ere furveyedmpurfuance of an ordi- I
nance nf'-Congrcft, passed on the twentieth day of May, I
in the year one thoiifand seven hundred and eighty-five, I
will be e*pofed for sale at Public vendue, in the town ol I
pittsburgh in Petinfylvar.ia, on the twenty-fourth day of I
OSobernext, and thenceforward, from day to day until I
the firft day of December ensuing/unless the said lots (hall I
be foones fold, in the manner, and on the terms and: con- I
» ditions herein after mentioned, to wit:
lit. The said ft&ions of lots fhaß be fold under the di- 1
re&ion ef the Governor or Secretary of the Western Ter- 1
Titory, and such person as the President of the United]
States may specially appoint for that purpose.
id. The said fe&ions or lots shall be fold to the highest I
Vidder.but 00 sale can be made for less than two dollars |
per acre of th« quantity of land contained in such" lot or I
fs<slicn. I
3. Tie highest bidder as before mentioned, must depo- I
so at the time of {al~, one twentieth part of tlie jure afe I
money in the hands of fac&jperfco as the President of the 1
United States Iha!l appoint to attend the sales for that pur- J
pose, which will bef<.rf*ited, of the sum bid, I
including the said t\"*fltieth pnrvfhall not be paid witniu J
thirty days fwsni thetiae of sale. 1
s 4th. Upon payment of a moiety of the pcrchafe money 1
p the manner befote mentioned, the purchaser wi.l be |
entitled to one year s credit for the remaining- moiety ; |
and Cull receive from the Governor «r Secretary of the j
Western Territory, ana the person who shall be appointed I
by the President of the United States, to direct the fales,a I
certificate the lot or f -Clion purchaffd, and de- 11
claijngthefu.il j-aid on account, the balance remaining due, I
the time v. hen such balance becomes payable, and that
the whole land therein mentioned, will be forfeited, if the
said balance is not then paid ; but if the said balance ihall
be dalr difcharged,by paying tic fann. to the Treasurer of
the United States, the purcliafer or his afGgr.ee 3* ether pJ n
1 legal representative, shall be entitled to a patent for t -
said lands, on his producing to the .Secretary of State a
ceipt for such balance endorsed upon the certificate. u.
if any purchaser Ihall make payment of t>e whole of the
' purchase money, at the time when the payment of the
t firft moiety is dire&ed to be mad<", he will he entitled to a e:
dedu&ion of ten per centum on the part for which a ere
) dit is authorized to be given; and his patent uia.l be 1m- t jj e j r
mediately issued. one <
Given under my hand at Philadelphia, the day t j
year above mentioned. t hat
OLIVER WOLCOTT, G „ OT
Secretary ©f the Treasury
ter ti
Schedule of feSions of townjhips, or /rational parts
of toivnjh'tpt, to be fold at Piitjhurgk, inpurfuave urda
of the 6th frflion of an aft of Congress, pajpd on
, the 18th day of May, 1796. T , u( r
* •— : —r- or J>
S 60 ® . • thei
" « -1 if ? I - r r
o S O 1 5 o 0 O for<
°<■ 280 < 2 6 < S doll:
1 ||' jz Z ters,
ift Ranch. 6thTown(hip. 6th RanG£.
ift Township. Ban|64o each ift Townlhip. S
a 8 565 14 640] 1? 3*o
29 ij6 95 i7aaos4° afo
30 150 75 640 each »i 850
34 240 90 BthTownlhip. sa 166 40
35336 640 each 3ai4164° eac l 123
id Townlhip i7aio,64oeach 24 540
19 140 23 640 27 15 1 80
»o 170 70 15330 640 each 28330 640 eac "
it 185 33336 64ofeach | 3,3 5 s
*2 230 lOthTownfbip. 34136 *40 each Keg
15 488 80 ia2 640 each; id Township. wol
> »6a»? 640 each 5 314640 each 1 is' 6 1
28 560 17320640 each % 440 —d
29 551 60 13336 640 e3ch 3 44S the
■30 564 iithlTownfhip. 4 456 1
31-36 640 each 1314 64-leach S 464 —d
4thTown(hip. 17320 640 cach 4 471 f' r ®
19 64 i3336|64o|each 7 .v 4° 1
2 1 640 , ,, = 8814640 each Dei
, t 3 11 60 ar *
5
34 445» 3 ° it, - 478
35 »» 50 3 3 a 4 6 s^each 3 486
t ,6 /° adTownfhip. 4
, t . jthfownlhtp. j6 J 502 _
6 1 39j 20 ja6 5 4 0 each \
d 12 479 30 3 6 7314 64c each \
17 304 15 I l.i 17320 640 each
18 638 50 Z , 23336 640 each T ,
23 45C 75 'tV 1 51°™ jthTownlhip.
24 6 4° ! j i 0 1 ;I ?
29 184 1 7 a20 14c each ■ * a c
10 4 ° , 23336'.40 e„ch I HI ton
15 312 Bfi J • 4 54°
36 640 3dTownfh.p. g
J Z_ 1314 640 each 6 fJ 6
2d Range. 1732 c 4c, each ?aI4 640 rtc j,
Ift Townlhip. 23336 54 o|each I7aJO 64C ttach
28 , 7120 sth Township. 13a , 6 64ceach
3f J 6| 5° 1314640 each , thTownfbip .
3d Towwfhip 17320640 each
n 24326 ach 23336 640 each %
28 *6 7thTownfhip. y .
29 64c 132 640 each 6o
a, 3 T a33 64c each 537 640 esch > 0
4thTowndiip. 12313640 each J
ir XI 40 18319 640 each x 6 oeJch
12 397 .J® 25 640 lc 6 h
oi\ 13 5' 50 3033 pleach 7
15 2; 5® 9th rownfhip. | tl^c t n/hip . I
- it «JS »o "'4 640 each qu
t- 17 524 i 7320 6 4e each , Q 6 ach th.
1 18 64c 23336 64oeach ' ,r" ,
,9 63' uthTownlhip. a .3« <*°W h de
20 584 80 1314 640e3ch ,° wn ''V nc
21 63* 2. 173-20 6 4 oe a ch , 'J
22a3664ce3eh 23336640 each ,^*J A 4 °) ea V
sthTownfhip. i3thTownfhip. . ,l 3 t th
, 5 63 iai 4 640|each
| 6a7 64: each 17320,640 each lal 4i>4< each
2 7 318 64 "ach 23336164 J eaCh
ra, l 3233664 c ;3ch S n4 <A *V' , -s thT ° wnihi P
ythTownfhip. lf^ Tow "f h,p - i3i4|6 4 o|each
I ig. 0 i >8 274 4® 17320 64o[each
j SthTownfhip " f; 50 3 6 64o;each
135 640 each 5° Range .
6 44c gift Township.
7314 640 csch ' 2q 30 j 4 ; 20
17320 6 4 oeach 36 1132 50
each o^ceach ad Township.
• I 9 I 7, P V "'S 3. 35
- j , 8 r 30 64 ; , each
i,a»o 640 each *. 4!0 Z 14 30 S
I 23836 640 sach !7aiß 6joe3£h k
J 3d Rangf. 5 456 *9 '4 o
3th I 2d Township. 6 464 80 10 . "J
for I 15 640 7 25® *3324 640 esch
to- I 16 6qo 8 618 *5 ■® c
los I 20 557 50 9ai4 64oeach ' '37 each
cri-I 21312 640 each 17 320 64c eachl 4th Township.
'°f I 23 609 23336 640 each 1 o4olcach
•di-I 25 640 each 4th I ownfhip. I 7 a a' "40leach
a y> I 3dTownfhip. Ia 14 640jeach | 1 3 a - I^,^ 4 <r ' eac ' 1
' ve ; I 9 188 60 17a20|640 e3ch I * ownfhip.
°' I 10 344 23336t640|eac1i lal 4|64ojeach
1 II 267 6thTownfhip. : 1 7320j64c e3ch
I 12 152 1 ai 4 i6401e3ch a^a^i^o'each
„ j 14 20250 17320)640 each BthTownfhip.
15 630 23336164 C l-ach la M*4oe3ch
jj_ J 16318 6 4 ofach BthTownfhip. 1'7 32c e3ch
Per-! ®9 2, 7 -5° 1 ai 4 640 each 2 3 a each
ited I 10 616 75 17320)64.0 each | lO,h 1 ow >Hhip.
21336 64oe3ch 23336)640 each I lal 4 64c e3ch
heft I 4th Township. iothl ownfhip. ! 7 a 20 640 each
liars 1 I 170 iai4 64oleach a 3 a 3® 6 4o|each
it or I » 544 17aac'i 4 o each 1 ath Townlhip.
3 320 23336 5 4 olaach lar 4 «4Pieach
epo- I 4 450 12thTownfhip. '7 a a< J4cl*ach
afe I 5 120 (314164; teach)i a 3'33^ 6 4 c|cach
fthe I 6 640 I7a2cl64c|cach!i 1 4'" '"wnjhip.
P ur -| 7 563 23?36|640!each I 1 ai 4 640|each
bid, I 839 64c each i4thTownfliip.l I 7 IJO °40|«ach
itnin JIO g 0 iai 4 16/,oieach. a 3 a 64.-[each
11 jar. 70 1732 c 5 4 oeich! '^'hTba-nfliip.
° n ®y J 1231464 c each 23336 640 each' lal 4 640 each
I 1732064r .ach 117 a 2° each
' 1 23336 640 each ' 23 a 3® 640 eack
)i the j 1
inted I NOTE.
d"'e- f. ™ E 1. uaat l ti£! of th« federal townlhip, bc-
Tduc t lofled Qf thc refervcd I
,h C ' Cd UtCT and also o{ th ° rc formertv fold - The ae
that grfgate quantities in tfcc several townftivs or
SS townships, hare been ascertained by adual fur
elball vcy ; the quantities ,n particular lots or feclions, have
us n <> other wale atetaincd than by calculation.
"
Philadelphia, Witt-Che far, Stnflurgh
Lancaflei, York and Frederick-town
stages. .
THE proprietors of the above S:ages, return their bell
thanks to their friends and the public in general for
the encouragement received in this line of btifinefs.and beg
leave to imormthe public, that they arc determined to rtta
their flakes throui*!i from Philadelphia to LancaSer in
one day, commencing on Tuesday, the r4th July mftant, P £)|
in the'following manner,-viz. A Stage will f«t out on
that dav at 4 "'clock in the morning, from the houf- of PP
Geo—e Weed, Market-street, Philadelphia, and run by
th"wav of Weftc/iefter and Strafburgh, arrive 111 Lancas
ter the'fame evening, on Friday morning run to Wright s —
ferry and cxchjnge passengers with the \ ork and Fredcj
ick-town tlage, retur.i and arrive in Philadelphia on bat- , n
urday, and on Monday morning following, at 4 o 'lock,
said ft age will set out from the said George Weed s, P.iila- 5
delphia, and arrive at I.attcatler, the fame evening, on 600
Tuesday morning at 4 o'clack will set out from the house And
of Mrs. Edwards, Lancaster, and arrive 111 Philadelphia
the fame evening, and will commence again on 7 hwrfday
morning following, and continue every week-Thc price
for each palTengcr from Philadelphia to Lancaster is three
dollars and a half, to York, four dollars and three qaar- 1
ters, to Frederick town eight dollars, the liAe funis for
I? 0 weight baggage, with the tifual allowance of 14 1 -
gratis to each paifenger, and 5 pencc a ir.ile for all way oa k
passengers. 3°-§4W For
John Reilly,
George Weed.
TAKE NOTICE, J
THAT application will be made for the renewal of
the following certificates, ifiued by Joseph Nourfe, ■*
Register of the Treasury, in the name of Roger Grif TH
wold, Esq. of Norwich, Conneflicut— dat
1 certificate, fix per cent domestic stock, No. 13,907
—dated the 17thDecember, 1795, bearing interest from
the fir 11 day of January, 1791. for 1.597 65-100 dol
-1 ditto, thre* pet cent, domestic stock, No. 10,682 —
—dated December 16, 1795, bearing interest from the
firft day of January, mgi, for 994 30-100 dollars.
1 ditto, deferred stock, No. 9,166' —dated the 17th
December, 179J, bearing interest from the firftjauu
ary, 1801, for 798 83-100 dalU™. , . „ fctj
Ba»4 are fupjrofcH »o have been 101 lor Jjj
flo'eit in this city fomtf time in December or January
1 ft
JOSEPH THOMAS, ter
No. 59, North Front-ftVeet.
Philadelphia, July ai> 1796- dfiw.
• — (i — * ■ ■' -
Walhington Canal Lottery,
N°. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorised J
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand, <C
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting jj
a Canal through the City of Walhington, from th Po Bt
tomac to the Eastern Branch Haruour. to
The following is the-SCHEME of No. I. vc]
Viz '1 Prize of 20,000 dollars, 10,000
1 ditto 10,00 a 10,000
7 last drawn T
Tickets, each i J ' '
6 ditto 1,000 6,000 —
10 ditto 400 4,000
jo ditto 100 »,000 Al
JS 'ditto SO 1,750
5750 ditto 12 69,008
To be raised for the Canal, 26,250
5850 Prizes, 175,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
£5* Commiflioners have taken the Securities re
I quired by the aforefaid a<ft for the puniftual payment of
the prizes.
I'he drawing of this Lottery will commence, without —
I delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timely
1 notice will be given.
j Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after the
drawing is finiihed, (hall be considered as relmquifhed for
! tha benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly. —
(Signed j NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, o/D
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY. ±
City of Walhington, Feb. ir. J r
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT agreeably to an n£l of Congress of the United
States of America, pal Ted at Philadelphia, the 28th day a
of Mav, 1796 ; laying duties on Carriages, for the convcy
, ance of per ions, and repealing the former atts for that pur- *
pose.—That there shall be levied, coftetted and paid, upon
all carriages for the conveyance of persons, which shall be "
kept by or lor any person, for his or hfir own use, or to let
out to hire, or for Ihe conveying of palfcngcrs, the several du- r
ties and rates following, to wit. d
For and upon every Coach, 15 dols.
upon every Chariot, 12 dols.
upon every Post Chariot, 12 dols;
upon every Post Chaise, 1 a dols.
upon every Phaeton, with or without top, 9 dols
upon every Coachee, 9 dols.
upon other Carriages, having panne 1 work above, •
with blinds, glasses or cut tains, 9 dols. (
upon four wheel carriages, having framed polls and <
topi with tieel springs, 6 dols. 1
upon four wheel top Carriages, with wooden or iron j
springs or jacks, 3 dols.
upon curricles with tops, 3 dols* '
upon chaises with tops, 3 dols. <
upon chairs with tops, 3 dols.
upon sulkies with tops, 3 dols.
upon other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carriage*, with Heel or iron springs,
3<iok.
for and upon all other two wheel carriages, a dols.
upon every Tour wheel carriage, having frathed polls
and tops, and relliug upon wooden spars, 2 aots.
The Colle&ors of the Revenue of the firft lurvcy of the
Diftri£tof Pennsylvania, will attend daily, until the 30th day
of September next, for the purpole of receiving the diuies on
Carriages, at No. 117, in Race or Saffafrai llreet, in tne Cit>
ot Philadelphia, at the house of Daniel S. Clair, Efq in the
Countv of Montgomery ; and at the house of Abraham Du
-1 bois, Esq. in the County of ltucks; of which all persons pof
1 feffed of such Carriages are defrred to take noiiee.
Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign diflilled Ipiri
-1 tuous liquors, that licences will be granted to them ; one li
cence for carrying on the business ot retailing of Wines, in a
Icls quantity, or in less quantities than 30 gallons—and one
liceucc for carrying on thebufirtcfs of retailing Spirituous l'.-
<be n^ D ' ers quaniicies than 20 gallons, &t the fame time and I
V the r L i . me by the officers legally authorized to grant
I fucli licences.
"ional WILLI M NICHOLS,
j- 1 Infpe£lor of the Revenue of the firft survey
i,, u . I of thediltrifiiof Penufvlvania.
| Office of lofpcOicn,at ) "(.•>»
J Philadelphia, 2ift JuJv, 1796. J
t
' ' '• ' ~ • I
For Rotterdam,
The ikip
Catharine,
•'J 01 *" Faraday, Maflir,
'??£*«& thirds as he: cargo will be on
" ' A board this weelc. The remamip.
third ttftrt be taken on freight if offered-foon-, a? fhc wit l
positively fail in all ftextweek. A few paflenarers can br
well accommodated. For terms of freight or pafTage,
apply to the captain on board at Mr. HucHVt wh;iff. \> v
so JOHN CRAIG,
Aug. 8 § No. ia Dock-ftreirt.
Just Arrived,
In the fhio John F ofl. Master, from Liverpool,
5000 Bushels Best fine ftovedSAi/T
600 Bulhels HOU">>i CO *. L,
And nSCrateS of QUEF.MS W.4RE aflorlfU,,
FOR SALE 11Y
Philip Nicklin & Co.
*3- N. B. THE S/»1D
Ship MOLLY,
W -f, TS for SALE or CHARTER, (he is 5
1» 1 years old, Philadelphia built, o? while
oak, wsswell salted and carrics about 4400 barrels of flour.
For terms apply as above.
J u 'y '3 d<f_
For JEREMIE,
schooner Hope,
Brig Betiey.
THEY are fail-failing vefTels, and have elegant accommo.
dations. For palTage only, apply ta
Richard & James Potter,
Aug. j § No. 8 north Frant L ftrect.
For Madeira,
James WicumM.
JJ' 'Wt.. ■« - Expe«ftedto fail'in all'irext w'e3s~~
WII ,L take a few barrels on freight. Apply'to the maf
teron board at Stamper's wharf, or to
Johti Donnaldftjh,
No. 25 Walnut-street.
AUg. 6 §7
i For Sale or Charter,
; BOSTON,
BURTHEN about 1000 Bbls. of flour—(lie jr y be sent
to sea at a small expence, her fails and rigging being in
very good order—apply to
James Campbell, or
George Latimer.
April 29, 5
This Day commenced Landing,
At N ifflins wharf, the cargo of the Brig Lucy andSleap
St. Jajio, from St. JagodeCuba—conCilingof
White and Brown Box SUGAR.
MOLASSES, of an excellent quality.
COFFEE.
HIDES and HONEY. Also,
For Sale or Charter, w
A 0Ut > ft roll g vessel, will carry, a
'l xV bout 1200 barrels, and may go to
with a very small expense.
" The above will be fold for calh or approved notes.
y Samuel Emery,
No. 64, south Second-ilreet.
! r July »7, 1796- _ dtf '
0F ® OSTON '
Friendship,,
Joseph Master,
Aftout, staunch vefTel—will positively fail on Satur
day ueit, and will taker treight on very low terms-
Enfuit'e of the mailer on board at Hodgv's wharf,.
" A "S-8 1
For Sale,
Or for Charter to the Well- Indies y
i c e"r a s,
V " Ph'aaielpb'Ki
and Red Cedar, burthen ahmit. 3500 car-
S U re'U, now discharging at Latimer's wharf.. rhl *™;
l ct fei is in excellent repair, well fouud-and will hear ath
u . rough examination, andasfoon as will be it
dy to take iaftt cargo. For terms apply to
John Vaughan.
July 28 i-
Diftritt of Pennsylvania : to wit :.
BE it remembered, that 011 the sth day of.Augufl, m
the twentietl year of the independence o- the
ed States of America:, Cobsett, o
ind diftria, hath depofitod ill this office the title o a ,
the right whereof he claims as proprietor, in
ron following: to wit. jA
" The life and adventures of Peter Porcupine ,
" full and fair account of alt his authoring tran a
« being a sure and infallible guide lor all
" young men who wish to make a fartaoe. y
" by Feter Porcupine himfelf. ,•
" Now, you lying varlets, you shall fee ,I t .
1 ® S ' " tale will put you down." „ iiniteA:
in conformity to theail of the Congress 0 learo
„fl States, entitled "an for the encouragemen
:" S ' n g> by securing the copies of m
the the authors and proprietors, during th! w£Ll ,
day mentioned. -n » f ivmifvlvania.
i on Clerk of the Diftrid of Pemily^au^
Z\l) AUg; 8
D h u ! For sale by the fubferibers,
?0 f IN PENN-STREET,
130 quarter Chests frefh Hyf° n
100 ditto do. frelh Souchong sea '' r, t
■ . 300 Boxes China, containing small tel
>tn- J
. u pieces;
; n , 400 pieces Bandanoes. .
Willing* & hrancts.
&r~ T staw.
, January 30 J
PRINTED BY JOHN KEN^O,
rvcy —No. 119—
C H ™ S N U T-ST R EET.
[Pricc Eight Dollars per Anuarai:.
. 0 . .*