j# ■ J yC C^v
#a?ette o/' the Unites States, & Philadelphia Daily Advert}
Number 1237.] FRID AT EVENING, AUGUST 26, _ -
UNITED STATES, ?
Pennsylvania District, 5
IS pursuance of a Writ to m; dire&ed from the Honour
able Richard Peters, Esquire, Judge of the DiilriA
Court of the United States far the Pennsylvania Diftrift,
Will be exposed to Public Sale,
At the Merchants' Coffee-Houfe, in the City of Philadel
phia, on Monday, the 29th day of August, instant, at 12
o'clock at noon,
The SLOOP called the
.JPKaSEo? Re Ee C C A-,
.V 'S>r- _ With all and Angular her tackle, appa
rel ar.d Furniture, as the fame now are ; the said (loop
having Been condemned, to pay Mariners' wages, &c.
WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marshal.
Marftial's Office, 19th August, 1796.
For Sale or Charter,
2000 Bbls. of flour—lke may be sent
to sea at a small expence, her fails and rigging being in
very good order—apply to
"James Campbell, or
George Latimer.
April 89, $
For Sale or Charter,
r-;£"*£~Vw ™ E A6TrS AILI NG SHIP
LIGHT-HORSE,
LYING at Mess. J. & R Wain's wharf,
two hundred and seventy tons burthen, a flout, strong
vessel, aad well feund. For terms apply to
Joseph Anthony & Co.
*ug-34 $6_
rofsatc,
Or for Charter to the Well-Indies,
c E™R.""r; S,
Philadelphia Built,
OF Live Oak and Red Cedar, burthen about 3506 bar
rels, now discharging at Latimer's wharf, i'his ves
sel is in excellent repaii*, well fouad and will bear a tho
rough eiamrsation, andasfoon as discharged will be rea
dy to take in a cargo. For terms apply to
John Vaughan.
July a 8 §_
At Sbiith-ftreet wharf,
XT/ILL BE LANDED, Friday, 19th inft. August,
VV by snow Hope, from Jamaica, and flosp Sally,
from Port-au-Prince,
!* 300 Hhds. COFFEE,
70 Hhds. SUGAR.
Also, the cargo of the Sivedijh brig Gujlaf Adolpht,
cost. Ratnfre, from Gibraltar,
jft 2nd 4th proof Brandy, in pipes and hhds.
Hazle Nuts in sacks
St. Übes SALT, for sale by
PFTPR BLIGHT.
; - z —~~ ''
\ Gustaf Adolphe,
V \iA Swede, with a Mediterranean pass,
a very fine yeffel, about 100 tons bur
then. Aug- '8. ffzweozw
For Sale,
jlyfgjjfr Friendship,
DURTHEN .100 Barrels or r4OO
*" Jj buihels Coal, an excellent frame,
Live Oak and Cedar, and well found with cables, anchors
&c. fit for sea—new lying at Almand-ftreet wharf, Tho
mas Penrofe's. The terms will be made reasonable.
Apply to the Owner, No. 311 south Front-street, next
door to Jonathan Penrofe, Efq AUg.l9 Ifc°4
To be fold,
On Twelve Months Credit,
If applied for immediately,
One Hundred Thousand Dollars,
And one hundred and eighty thousand acres of good
LAND,
In the state of Virginia. Applj to the Printer.
AUg. 19 §
* " FOR SALE,.
A Complete Font of Brevier,
ENtirely new, and yet unopened. The weight of this
font is about 312 lb. 'It is from the Foundery of
I Wilson & Sons, Glasgow, rod will be fold at cost & charges.
Also for Sale, a pair of Super Royal Chafes.
Enquire at the Office of the Gazette ef the United
States, 119 Chefnut-ftreet. Aug 19 §4'w
CABLES,
From |6 to 9 J inches, for sale by
Jeremiah Warder,
July II § No 11 north Third-street.
A Book-Keeper,
OR Clerk's place is wanted by a person properly quali
fi«d, and whose character will be found unexception
able. Apply to the Printer.
Aug. 11 tf
In the Press,
Andfpeedily will bepubli/ked, by W. Young, M>lls
& Son, Cornet of Second and Chef nut flrcet,
An Apology for the Bible,
In a feriesof letters addrefled to Thomas Paine, author
as a book entitled The Age of P eafon, part the second,
being an invefligaticn of true and fabulous theology.
By RICHARD WATSON, D. D. F. R. S.
Lord Bishop of Llanda", and Regius Profeffor of Divin
ity in the Uciverfity of Cambridge.
Aug. 23. !
Wants Employment,
IN a gent<el family, town or country, a
French lady lately arrived in this city. She has re
ceived 'a good education and can be well recommend
ed. She withes to undertake the tuition of children, '
and will teach them to read, write, and speak the <
French language, in a short time, by principles simple, •
Hut very intelligible. She will also inflrucl thetn in
hiftcjry r rnythoicgie, &c. and will be careful in paying '
ftriil attention to their morals ; her terms will be very
moderate. Artply at No. 15, Lombard-Street, Phila-
Itdeiphia. Aujjuft to. lot <3
Wm. HOLDERNESSE,
No. 76 High Street,
T ~ T TAS received, by the latest arrivals from Europe and
n the East Indies, n well felc<sted assortment of Silk
"» Mercery, Linen Drapery and Haberdashery Goods; which
he will fell, Wholcfale and Retail, on the lowefl terms ;
AMONGST WHICH ARE,
12 Some fine India muslins emoroi Jered with go!d and friver
Superfine Book, Jaconet, aad Mulinul iuto
Do do da do Haudkerchiefs
Some entri WatV taftVtie?,lut«ftringßand colored Perfiao*
bandaoo Handkirchiefs ■- " >• ■«-*
Long and short Nankeens - •
Englilh Mantuas of the firft quality
Damalk table linen and napkins, very fine
Silk Hosiery, an elegant assortment
Thead and cotton do
Umbrellas—grien silk, oil'd de. and do doth
French cambrics, very, fine
Irith Linens, do. See. See. June 14 J
For Sale,
A Three story BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut
street, between Front and Second ftrsets, in which
Messrs. James Calbraith & Co. have for many years (and
ln now do) carried on business.
Poffeflion will be given in one month, or sooner.
For ternjs apply t»i WILLIAM BELL, or?
HECTOR CALBRAITH.
April 21. §
FOR SALE,~
WINE, London particular Madeira, 4 years old,
in pip" and hoglheads
Claret, genuine old, in cases
Gin, in pipes', from Holland •
Earthen Ware, in crates
£ Baiket Salt, in hogsheads
Shot, Nos. 6, 7, 1 and 9
Bar Lead, Red and white dry lead
Steel, German and Ruflia, in barrels
- Awfe>n, cufaigfl. bunting* tarpolin e&nvas,
Tin plates —An invoice Stationary, by
THOMAS & JOHN KETLAND.
July 19 $
ELEPHANT. ~
This Ar.'tmal is to be seen in High-Street, between
r- the f e "th and the Eleventh-Street.
f- TTE will positively leave Philadelphia the tenth of Sep
-- JQ tember, for Baltimore, in his way to Charleston,
a- where he will win' er.
ADMi ITANCE Half a Dollar—quarter of a Dollar
for Children.
The PANORAMA, or the VIEW ef the CITIES.of
LONDON and WESTMINSTER,
Is to be open till the 10th of September, and the fub
je<£i will then be removed to Baltimore with the ELE
1, PHANT.
r, ADMITTANCE for the PANORAMA,
One quarter of a Dollar.
August 3.
French Goods.
'' Received by the Sally, Mitchell, from Havre-de-
Grace,
2 ° Cafe"'" j Ladies' SHOES of all colors forts and sizes
I Ditto white and colored Silk STOCKINGS
I Duto Fir* LAWN , =~
• "1" nTtr/1 «■ a UW W
I Ditto Ladies' bell ihainmy and Grenoble Gloves
For Sale by THOMAS & JOHN KETLAND.
Aug. 14 $ •
» — ■ 1 ' " '* ' " - ' 1 "
A very valuable Merchant Mill,
\ DISTILLERY and BREWERY, and furidry STONE
il QUARRIES to be let
I will rent my merchant Mill at the little Falls of Po
t'owmac, for aoy term not l«fs than seven, nur more than
eleven years, from the firft day of September next. The
mill-noufe is 41 by 46 feet, three stories high, built with
stone, and has in it three pairs of French Burr Stones, two
J overshot 18 feet water-wheels, and Evans's machinery
complete, with every other thing proper and necessary for
carrying on the business with dilpatch. and at as little ex
t penle as possible, all in good order.—From the mill to my
landing 011 the Potemac river, (wheris craft, of any bur
- then may deliver grain and take in flour) it is about 40
yards, and from thence by water tn George-Town and
the City of Walhingtoa, about 3 miles, and to Alexan
dria about 11 miles. This situation, aided by a fufficient
capital, will command the produce of a very extensive
back country, where large quantities of wheat and other
» grain is annually made, the distance to it being from 8
to 10 miles less than to any market town upon the navi
gation of the Potowmac. There are on the premises a
large ft#ne Coopers' ih«p, a stone granary, and a commo
dious miller's house. At the landing alorefaid a bridge
is now building over the Potomac, which is in great for
wardriefs and probably will be finilhed the ensuing fall.
There are also on the premises, a Brewery and Distille
ry, built with stone, in them are three stills, two coppers
or boilers, with every ncceflary article, all new, and in
good order, and fufficiently large to carry on the Brew
ery and Distillery upon a very extenfivi plan. This prop-'
erty I will rent for the fame term of years.
Upon my laHds adjoining the premises, and along the
- banks of the river, where cr'aft may lead with eal'e and dil
patch, is an i-nmenfe quantity ol building and lounda
tion-ftonet. Four quarries are now open, and as many
more may be opened with eafc : the stone taken from thele
quarries is better, and has the preference at this market,
to any other stone brought to it. I will rent these quarries
. separately or together as may best suit.
On the top of the hill, and about aoo yards from the
mill, is a stone Dwelling-hoyfe, large enough for the ac
- commodatioa of a family : also, a kitchen, dairy, fiuoke
- house, 4cc. and a garden, enclosed aad in cultivation, the
foi of which is equal in goodness to any in this state. I
will also reat this property.
Adjoining to the Brewery and Distillery is a Smith's
lhop, in which is a complete set of Blacksmith's tools,
S which 1 will also rent, and if agreeable I will hire to the
tenant two negro blacklxniths, one of them is a complete
workman.
Ii I rent out the stone quarries', I will fell three crafts,
which wei e built for the pUrp®fe of carrying stone : they
, will altogether bring upwards of 90 perch. Immediate
poffcfTion will be given. For terms apply to the l'ubfcrib
er in this town.
The Mill, Brewery and Distillery, with their appurten
ances, will be delivered to the tenant or tenants in good
repair, and mutt be so returned, at the expiration of the
Icale or leases.
PHILIP RICHARD FENDALL.,
Alexandria, Aug. 16 —
_____
COFFEE, in hhds. bb!s.;& bags
COTTON, of Dcmerara, anu >entitlrdto drawback
SOAL-LEATHER )
Airo,
BOSTON BEEF, and Mould and Dipt CANDLES.
Apply to ISAAC HARVEY, Jun.
No. 5 south Wat«r-ftreet.
Smf.io. § 3W
Just Arrived,
In the Snow Boston, James Kirkpatrick, master' from Li
verpool,
d 5000 Bushels SALT ;
k ico Crates QUEENS WARE ; and
h An Assortment of SHIP CHANDLERY;
FOR SALE
Ob board, at Pinc-fireet wharf. -Apply to
fames Campbell, or
George Latimer.'
s *9 $
Landing,
From on board the Schooner Expedition,
St. Croix Rum&Sugar,
For Sale by F. COPPINGER,
Aug. 11 $ ail South Front-street.
DUTY OiN CARRIAGES,
h Notice is hereby Given,
d agreeably to an of Congref* of the United
X States of America, pafled at Philadelphia, the 281b day
of May, 1796 ; laying duties on Carriages, for the convey
ance of persons, and repealing Ihe former a£ta for that pur- f
pose.—Thai there shall be levied, collected and paid, upon
all carriages for the/conveyance of persons, which Ihall be
kept by or for any perfort, for his or hsr own use, or to let
out to hire, or for the conveying of pafTengers, the several du
ties and rates following, to wit.
y For and upon every Coach, isdols.
upon every Chariot, 12 dols.
hpon every Post Chariot, i« dols*
upon every Pott Chaise, 12 dols.
upon every Phaeton, with or without top, gdols
upon every Coachee, 9 dols.
upon other Carriages, having panne i work above,
with blinds, glaifes or cuTtains, 9 dols.
upon four wheel carriages, having framed posts and
. topi With fpiiags, si
four wheel top Carriages, with wooden or iron
fpriugs or jacks, 3 dols.
upon curricles with tops, 3 dols.
upon chaise* with tops, 3 dols.
upon chairs with tops, 3 dols.
Upon sulkies with tops, 3 dols.
* upou other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel cariiages, with Heel or iron springs,
3 dols.
For and upon all other two wheel cariiages, « dols.
upon everyfour wheel carriage, having framed posts
r and tops, and reliiug upon wooden spars, 2 dols.
The Colicftors of rhe Revenue of the firft survey of the
£ Diftri&of Pennfylvat:ia, w ill attend daily, until the 30th day
of September next, for the purpose of receiving the duties on
Carriages, ai No. 117, in Ri.ce or Saflafrai street, in the City
of Philadelphia, at the house of Daniel S. Clair, Efq in the
County ot Montgomery ; and at the house of Abraham Du
bois, Esq. in the Coutity of Bucks; of which all persons p.of •
felled of such Carriages are defnedtu take notrce.
Notice is alio given,
TO all retail dealers in Wir.es, aijd foreign distilled spiri
tuous liquors,that licences will be granted to them ; one li
ccnce for carrying on the business of retailing of Wines, in a
iefs quantity, or in lels quantities than 30 gallons—and one
licence f'o< carrying on the business of retailing Spirituous li
quors in left quantities than ao gallons, at the fame time and
at the fame places, by tlie ofHccrs legally authorised to grant
fuck licenccs. *
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
1 nfoe/Hnr ps lly"Revenue of the firft survey
-4. r— —rrrr . of the diliricfc 01 rerun;ivania.
Oificeof InfpcOion.at ) S3®
g Philadelphia, 21ft July, 1796. )
TAKE NOTICE,
''T'HAT application will be made for the renewal of
L the follpwing certificates, ifiueJby Joseph Nourfe,
KegiAer of the Treasury, in the name of Roger Gril
wold, Elq. of .Norwich, Cor.neilicut—
i I certificate, fix per cent domestic ftoc\, No. .
—dated the 17th December, 1795, bearing interest from
1 the firft day of January, 1791, for 1,597 6J-100 dol
-1 1 ditto, thre" per cent, domestic flock, No. 10,682
—dated December 16, 1795, bearing interest from the
firft day of January, 179 j, for 994 30-100 dollars.
1 ditto, deferred ftocV, No. 9,166 —dated the 17th
December, 1795, bearing interest, from the firft Janu
ary, 1801, for 798 83-i®o dollars.
Said certificates are have. been loft or
stolen in this citvfome time in December or January
last.
JOSEPH THOMAS,
No. 59, North front-ftreet.
Philadelphia, July 11, 1796. d6w.
Philadelphia, West-Chester, Strajburgh,
Lancafler, York and Frederick-town
STAGES.
' I 'HE proprieters of the above Stages, return their b«!l
X thanks to their friends and the public in general, for
the encouragement received in this line of business, and beg
leave to inform the public, that they arc determined to run
. their stages through from Philadelphia to Lancafler in
one day, commencing on Tuesday, the 14th July instant,
in the following manner, —viz. A Stage will set out on
that day at 4 o'clock in the morning, from the house of
George Weed, Market-street, Philadelphia, and run by
the way of Weftencfter and Strajburgh, arrive in Liuicaf
ter the fame evening, on Friday morning run to Wright's
ferry and exchange passengers with the York and Fredej
ick-town stage, return ar.d arrive in Philadelphia on Sat
urday, -and on Monday morning following, at 4 o'clock,
said stage willfet out from the said George Weed's, Philaf
delphia, and arrive at Lancafler the lame evening,
Tuesday morning at 4 o'clack will set out from the honi'e
jlf Mrs. Edwards, Lancaster, and arrive in Philadelphia
the fame evening, and will commence again on Thurfjay
morning following, and continue every week—The price '
for each palfcnger from Philadelphia to Lancaster
dollars and a half, to York, four dollars and three'quar
ters, to Frederick town eight dollars, the like /urns for
150 weight baggage, with the tifcial allowance bf 14 lb.
gratis to each paiTenger, and 5 pence a mil« i6r ah way
palfengers. 30 —§4w
John Rejiiy,
George Weed.
Sales of India Goods.
The Cargo »f she ship Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cal
cutta and Bengal,
CONSISTING OP
A Large and general assortment of Bengal and Madras
COTTON and SILK GOODS.
AMONO WHICH ARE |
A variety fine worked and plain Mujlins,
Doreas, tsV. Alio,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
In boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER,
For Sale by
Willings Francis,
No. 11 Penn Street.
June 8 5
New-England Rl- ?n iiiids.
Li- /COUNTRY GJNirt barrels,
JUNIPER BERRIES in Cases,
SPERMACETI, )
COMMON WHALE, and V OIL.
TANNERS >
SPERMACETI CANDLES,
Talldw Ditto, Mould and Dipt
White SOAP, in Boxes
| Best Boston BEEF, hi barrels and half barrels
CODFISH, in hhds,
| , Jseft Bolton MACKREL, in barrels, and ,
A few choice fmo'iked SALMON, For Sale by
JOSEPH ANTHONY & Co.
Also, a small invoice of well aflorted
INDIA GOODS,
JUST ARRIVED.
Aug. 33 ffro
Landing
From on board the Nancy, William Belcher, maf
tet, from Bourdeaux, a cargo, confiftir.g of—
,ed 360 Hhds. CHOICE CLARET,
l av 232 Cases of 24 bottles each, Claret,
ry. 286 do. of 24 do. WHITE WINE,
BRANDY, SWEET OIL, and
Z 1 TRUNK of RIBBONS,
let For Sale by
lu " .Jv,:/Coppinger.
July zj. dtf.
City of Washington.
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11,
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE
FEDERAL CITY.
j A magnificent } 10,000 dollars, & 1
dwelling-house, i calh 40,090, are i 50,00*
■on I ditto 15,000 & caih 15,009 40,00#
I ditto 15,000 & oalh 15,000 30,-000
1 ditto' 10,000 & ciQi 10,000 30,a0»
x ditto 5,000 & cafe 5,000 10,000
I ditto 5,000 & cash 5,00 a 10,008
I cash prize of >0,000 I
a do. 5,000 each, are - 10,000
° ' ro do. 1,000 - - 10,000
ao do. 5-00 - - 10,000
>(h 00 do. 100 - - 10,000
>is. 400 do. 50 - - 10,000
the 400 do. 15 - lo,ooG
'ay 1,000 do. ao J »0,000
, on 15,000 do. 10 w « 150,000
"y
)u . *6,739 Prizes.
jf. Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, it Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity of
'' Tickcts, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the !. Ast drawn
1 ' ticket, and the 30,ooothe last but one :
'° c And approved notes, securing payment ineither money
nd or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be received fct
lllt any number not lefb than jo tickets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of the pri
vate buildings to be cre<2cd in the City of Washington—
■ey Two beautiful defitjiis are already {elected for the ejit .
fronts <m ivvo ot the puolic Iquares tfonj these praw
it ispropofed to erect two centre and fourcorner l>ui!.-'
as soon as possible after this lottery is fold, and to '
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventi
the manner described in the fchemc for the Hotel nt ■
of A nett deduction of five per cent, will be mad'
fe, the peceffary expenses of printing, &c. and tin; frp
ril will be made a part of the fund intended for '-in-;
Upiverlity, to be erei£led within the city of ' ;n?..
q.j The Drawing will commence a. soon a" <■>•. tic* '
im fold off.—The money prizes will be jnyj";!, vC-rt- .
u l_ after it is finilhsd ; and any prizes for hich foi- ja'te
numbers ate not produced within twe'r u ' . thj
drawing is closed, are to be consider... ~ crt ird»
thefunjfor the University ; it beit g v t-ffai, td :o fettle
,u the whole b\ifmefsin a year from th? tiding of the dra- 7-
ing, and to take up the bonds g' in a, fecunty.
The real securities given for .hyp» ymer.t of the Pr
are held by the President and -vo 1 -eifto ;ot tL. Bank
or of Columbia, and are vah -.d i: r han fc:> (ie a
■y mount ot the lattery.
The twenty four gentlemen v y i[.;. meat of
the late Commissioners • tliste inf.- . ;'ag m nt of the
Hotel Lottery are requested to -are this '.rdiious talk
a second time on bcb ilf 0! the . ■ ; luiucient num«
— ber of these having ki.jiy a.-t' '.i is; ,ped that the
') t friends to a Natio ■ I ■ ' the c-ier federal ob
jects may continv to f: at i'te deit^n
By accounts 'c ■' rent parts of the
Continent as wel a' for ', e f .vhcre the tickets
have been frni io i re assured that the
or drawing w* if t ! .: ■ ■, id that the care and
caation ur.a : ' ,c ifure a fafe disposal of
" th«tickets,has ; .nderi-it : ia<r: suspension mdifpenfable.
■" ' lUEL BLODGET.
lt Tickets may be had a. the Eank of Columbia ; o
on ' James Weft \ Co. Baltimore ;of Peter Gilman, Boston
G f of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells
. ( y. Cooper's Ferry. eo
Plans of the city of Philadelphia,
'f Including theNoaTHERN Liberti&s and dillria of
J" SOOTHWARK,
Published, and fold by
a/ BENJAMIN DAVIES,
"J No. 68, High street,
» e (Price one dollar.)
(5a THIS plan is 26 inches square, and-has been en
dy graved by one of the fiTft artists in the city, from a late
LC and accurate survey. Purchal'ers are entitled to a pam
ee phlet with each plan, giving " some account of the
city, its population, Trade, government, &c.
Ib ■ To be fold by ptiblic sale,
1 y /~\N Wednesday, the 7tih day of September next, on
Vy the premises in Mount-Holly,Burlington county, by
the Sublcfiber,
The Dwelling-House and Lot
Whereon it {lands, having been in part occupied as a store
for several years pafl, and in a good stand lot business, to
gether with the ftore-honfe, stable and buildings thereon
ertiied, having two large ccllars under them. Aifo, the
' " (hop goodsand houlchold furniture. A clear title will be
given to the purchaser on payment of the money or fuf
(icient bond therefor, and possession of the premises will
be given in the faiii month of September.
The sale is to continue 'till the whole is disposed of.
Mount Holly having become rhc County Town, makes
■fj this property more valuable than heretofore. The condi
tions will be made known at the time and place of sale, by
PETER SH'RAS.
N. B. All persons indebted to the fubfcriber,are rebell
ed to difchargcthe fame immediately, as he intends /bob
to remove out of this Hate. Any person having a jull de
mand against the fubferiber, is requested to produce thr «
lame for settlement. 3»
Momt Holly, Augvift 16, 1796.CONTINUATION OF
Foreign Intelligence.
Received by the Jhip Light-Horse, and other arrivals. \
CONSTANTINOPLE, Match 30. •
I
The Pacha of Achra, furnamed Gezzar or the ,
Ravenous, to defignatehis ferocious ch <ra£Ur r has |
raifrd the ftandaid of rebellion in Asia, because he |
had been di%>!aced by the Grand Signior, who juil ,
ly felt indignant at the cruelties committed by that ,
raonller in the government under his orders.
The Pacha having fortified Acra, has put him
felf at the head of a band of bvigantfc, and took '
the towns of Kaffa and Rama, which form part of
the government of Damask ; he fpteads devastation j
and death in those unfortunate countries. I
Thirty years ago, this individual was Bey (Go
vernor of a town or province in Egypt) of Cairo ; j
lie stirred up a rebellion agairA the famous Aly (
Bey, then Governor of Egypt, and put him in ,
pnfon ; but being fubdutd by the other Beys he ,
fled to Damask, where - he afterwards kept a coffee- ]
hou'fe. The Pacha of Damask, who knew his mi- ,
litary talents, employed him during the war against ,
.the Ruffians, and charged him to fortify and defend ]
the port of Bayruiti; he built a fortrefs, and it ,
wis here that he got.the surname Geezar, or the
Ravenous, because he had ordered a great number
of people to be buried in the foffe of the fort.
When peace was restored, the Turkilh Admiral,
whohadbeen'-a'JiJaKnted with hitp in Egypt, gave
a very favorable account of his operations at Bay
ruiti, and had him appointed Governor of Acra
and Pacha of Sidon and Tyrus. '
The English General, Cook, has received orders
from the Grand Signior, to leave the territory of
she Ottoman Empire. This order was given in
conference of some violent disputes between the '
Turkish Minister and that General. -1...
" "" I
PARIS.
LYCEUM OF ARTS.
Public Sittings of April 19.
This was the 41ft public fitting finee the efta
blifnment of the Lyceum, and the fourth anniver
sary since its firft. opening. This interesting epocha |
has been justly celebrated. When the secretary |
general observed, that by preserving that eflablifh- ;
ment the only object and the only recompence of.
the Lyceum had been, to be ufeful and peferve the
esteem of the public, an unanimous applause mark- .
ed the unequivocal approbation of the whole assem
bly. . 1
Amosg the different fubjefts treated on we re- ,
mark the following—
A report of Darcet on a new method of em- (
bellifhing earthen-ware, invented by citizen Olivier, (
manufacturer in the suburb Antoine. A civic .
crown was granted for this invention. I
Report of Malherbes on the economical method
of fpinniug invented by Tremble, mechanician ; ]
and on if, improvement of the double cranes etn
ployed for unloading veffeie. '{*.A—mi>Jal. J I
Report of Vauguelin and Lagrange, on the new .
method of tanning by means of which the best qua
lity of leather can be tanned within 10 days or 20
at the most, although the fame could not be done
formerly in less than two or three years. The ma
nufacture established at Seves, by Sequin, the in
ventor of the new method, is a£lually in a ftateto
tan annum 88,000 hides of oxen and 400,000
small of cows and calves. [C> v 'c crown.]
The fittii.g terminated with new experiments
made by Vauquerhn and Fourcroy on the detona
tion effecting by the dashing of muriate against
oXygene of potash mixed with sulphur and char
coal. ,
The experiments were perfe&ly executed by
Boullon, La Grange. [Aurora.]
PORT! MOUTH, June 19.
The funeral of Si Joan Lafokey takes place to
morrow. The "ollowing are the inftru&ions
which have bet issued by the Admiral com
manding the Port, for the order of the military
proceflion on this occasion.
Royal William, at Spithead, Jterieiy.
It being my intention to pay the deceased Ad
miral Sir John Laforey, Bart, every military honor
due to an officer of his high rank, at his funeral, on
Tuesday next, the 2 tft inft. the flag officers and
captainsx>f the fleet are to assemble on board the
Majestic at ten o'clock in the mernjng of that day,
and to atttend the procession in the following or- !
der,-viz.
A twelve ear'd cutter, with the Marine-band.
Barge with 3 Captains CORPSE, r Barge with 3 '
Pall Bearers. Cln a barge—the } Captains, Pall 1
) crew dressed. (_ Bearers. i
Admiral Sir Prter Parker, Bart. Chief Mourner. i
Resr Admiral Sir Roger Curtis, Bart. Vice Admiral (
Colpots.
Rear Admiral Bugh.
The Bth Captain in seniority The 7th Capt. in seniority. 1
joth ditto 9th ditto
tith ditto nth ditto
The remainder ofthe Pod Captains, according to seniority
two and two.
Commanders in the like order.
The flags and pendants in the different boats to be hoisted '
only half■ 1": a ft. ,
As soon as the procession begins from the Ma- 1
jeßic, the flag ships, and all his Majesty's ships and t
vefleU at Spithead and in Portsmouth harbour, are 1
to itrike their flags and colours hals-mast, follow- i
ingthe example of the Royal William in striking 1
the fame, and hoisting them again. The Majestic 1
to fire minute-guns when the boats are at a proper ;
distance, and continue doing so until the Royal ]
AVillinni hoists the flag to the mast head. The Ma- <
jeftic only to keep her flag apd colours half mast till 1
lun-fet. j
The (hips ni'ar which the procession pafles are to <
man the shrouds, the crews with their hats off, and :
tuiif out a guard, presenting their arms, but not to (
beat thejrumor cheer; and the boats which row 1
are to land in regular fncceffion at the Sally-port. 1
The Procession to move from thence in the follow- c
ing order: <
" Here follows the oidcr of tbe procession by Land.J 1
DOVER, June 14.. _ 1
Extrift of a letter from Vice#.dmira'i Sercey,
commander of the di v 'fi° n feat t° India, to the 1
Minister of Marine and Colonies.
Canary l/les, 1 clh Gcrmiual.
«We arrived here the 26th ef last month, the 1
thirteenth day after leaving Rochcfort, after a piep
lant palfage, all well. In onr road", by one of those
happy chances which Providence reserves for Re- '
publicans, we met an English ship bound for Mar
tinico, laden with all kinds of-piovifions, and we
have taken her. So that we shall economise our <
(fores, and live, for f me time, at the expence of
the enemy ; sos, wpon c f »m ) putation, I. find that
this vessel will furnifh lis ith biscuit for one month
—ami meat, See. so; We hope to meet by
and by with some vessel thi shall find us in drink, j
We have made life of our leilure here in exercising -
all oar people, and our p: 'S are repaid. We put j
in here to wait for thcfi'i^a eL3 Virtu, which we ;
had left at Kochefort. Sh.' joined 11s yesterday,
after a paflage of todays. We tail this day. A
perfect Union, entire fybmiffion to the laws of dil
cipline, constant love for t'n - Republic, unanimous
w<fh for the Itability of th»' Co iliiution and of the
government, an ardent,deii cos making them
known and'refpefted in til part of th - world to
which we are going. Siti his the difpoltion with
which we fat off. We let fail, grateful for the
hospitable reception which the Spaniards have giv
en us here.
LONDON.
Court of King's Bench, June 16.
GAMING. - ;
BADIOLI V. OLDNO.
This was an adtion for money had and received '
for the plaintiff's nfe.
Mr- Gairow stated his client, Mr. Badioli, to 1
be a vety refpedable man, who lud lived many '
years in this town, and had by his indus
try, a handsome fortune.
The defendant kept a gaming-house, at No. 29, 1
Qiendon- BKeti '
He was certain the jury and every body would
■agree with him as to the importance of thisadtion.
The plaintiff had in his hoafe, and'educated under '
his care and protc&ion a gtandfon, not yetairived 1
at age, who, after he had finifhed his education,
was taken into htilinefs by Mr. Badioli, and was '
afterwards to be furmfhed with the means of living '
by his own industry.—This young man had the '
misfortune to he enticed into qne qf those nume
rous gambling-hoßfes, which form the pest and de
ftrudiion of the young men of the times in which
wcJive. He there loft a great deal of his grand
facer's money, and of eourfe could not come out
without those arts which undermined every thing
that was valuable in the human mind. He loft at
this house £. 161 14, ti>e,fum for which this action
was brought. If he matle out by fair legal evi
dence that that sum of money bad been loft at the
defendant's gaming table, juftiee, common sense,
and law said the plaintiff was entitled to recover it
back again. ThetfTeif of a few verdi&s against
such men, would be extremely beneficial to the pub
lic, inasmuch as it would make the keeping of
gambling houses an unprofitable trade, and there
" tore they woufiJTFiuTtheir tfo'GTJ agalnff 7 yoiing men,
and betake themselves to something better.
The learned couafel hoped the jury, by their
verdifl, would convince fu.:h defendants, at least
that they were not fuperiorto the laws, and make
them feel that the keeping of such houses was a
losing trade!
M. Wilson was here called on the part of the
plaintiff, and said, he was the grandson of Mr.
Badioli, aod lived as servant with him, in the month
of June, 1795. He loft to Mr. Oldno, the de
fendant, the fem of 1611. 14s at No. 29, Oxen
don-ftreet. He loft it playing at Rouge et Noir.
The defendant was there, and, after the game was
over, put the money of the bank, as well as the
money he had won, into a bag. During play,
when any thing was wrong, the defendant dire&ed
the table. There were a great many other people
here. He always law Oldno there. He saw him
there after he had loft his grandfather's money.
On his eiofs examination, he said, his grandfa
ther was an oilman, and he was his servant, and
adled in his shop. He never rendered his grand
father an account, because he kept no till. He
robbtd him of 5001. between the month of June
and the month of September following.—Among
other things, he discounted two notes, the one for
• 001. and the other for 801. which he took out of
a book belonging to hii grandfather.
Mr. Erflciae was Counsel for the defendant, and
said, he was certain, hii L or dfh'P an d the gentle
men of the jury would join in giving him full credit
for the sincerity of those observations he had made
on that important fubjeft, when engaged for plain
tiffs. then feel any difpofitioni inter
est, or duty to contradict any one of those observa
tions. That the exigence of gaming houses wa's
the pest and definition of the rising generation, of
the young men of this age ; and that they were exl
- dangerous to the community of which we
were all members, he had no inclination to dispute.
But he knew his Lordship too well; and he had no
dOubt that, before the fittings were over, he should
likewise know the jury too well, to suppose their
laudable attempts to prevent the deftruflion of the
community by gambling, would at all alter the or
dinary administration of juftiee, or the rules of evi
dence as applicable to that administration. Be
cause there were gaming houses in this town, which
deserve to be reprobated, did it therefore follow,
that, oti flight evidence, any one fubjeft of the com
munity was to be pitched upon by such a witness
as they had heard, and to have taken out of his i
pocket so large a sum of money, on the single oath
of such a man ? If that witness had been a young 1
man of irreproachable life, conversation aid charac
ter, the cafe would be extremely different. But, '
on his own testimony, he had 110 morality at all,
and had violated every rule of affe&ion, most un-'
doubtedly, which nature had implanted in him.
He took his grandfather's money and applied it (o ;
his own use. He therefore flood in the most suspi
cious He now wished to get back part
of that large sum of money of which he had robbed 1
his grandfather, and a great part of whidTht bad 1
expended on other p'eafures, at brothcis, &c. It
was therefore extremely dangerous to rely on the
evidence of such a man, unfupporKd by any other
testimony.
Two witnesses were called on the part or the
defendant, who gave their evidence in fuelr a man
ner, that
Lord Kenyon told the he thought they i
ought to pay no credit to it. His Lordship was i
certain they would find a great deal of pleasure, as '
far as the administration of juftiie could do it, to i
chcck this growing and monstrous evil.
Verdict for plaintiff—loll. 14s.
June 19.
BURDON V. CARTWRIGHT. (
This was an action for damages agaii)il the de
fendant, for criminal converfatian with the plaintiff s
wife. The declaration Contained also a count for ,
seducing the plaintiff's wife away from her husband,
and harbouring her, &c.
The firft witness proved, that the plaintiff and
his wife lived happily together, and had three chil
dren.
It appeared afterwards in evidence, that the de
fendant had been married to the plaintiff's sister, but
(he was dead.
Some time «go the plaintiff's wife quitted her
husband, and went to live with the defendant, 1
palling as the defendant's lifter, who had come
from the country, 300 miles off. Ihe defendant j
invited a gentleman and his lady, Mr. Apd Mrs.
Fletcher, to dine with hirr> ani the plainTTtt's wife,
Whom he called his sister—While they were at din-
ner, the plaint iff came in and addressed his wife,
aflcing where she had been, and wheig her ring was ?
(lie pulled it out of h«r pocket. He invited her to j
return home with him. The defendant said to
her, " Mary, if you have any thing to fay to this |
man, go into another room, and do not dillutb my J
company."
The plaintiff and his wife then went away toge- 1
ther, and she ftais with her husband about a fort
night, but then returned to the defendant ; imme
diately afterwards This action wasTitougfttr mere 1
was no evidence whatever of any Adultejy. f
Mr. Erfkine made a very able and eloquent speech <
for the defendant. He produced a letter which \
the plaintiff wrote to the'defendant after his wife t
went home with him, thanking him for the care he I
had taken of his wife. He then produced anothpr f
letter, and propofsd to read it in evidence ;it was a 1
letter from the plaintiff's wife to the defendant, <
whereby she complained of her hufbandV treat- |
ment towards her ; but Lord Kenyon decided, j
that it could not be read in evidence, for that the <
wife could not, in any manner, be evidence in this i
action. One witness proved, that the wife had, 1
for several year 6, complained of the ill-treatment of i
her husband. I
Lord Kenyon observed to the Jury, that this was 1
a blended action ; that of adultery and feduftion—
of the adultery there was no evidence, and there
fore they would dismiss that part of the cafe ; but 1
of the feduftion there was abundant proof, and that
was as much an attack on the plaintiff's comfort and 1
peace of mind, as adultery could be. If the wife j
had any rsafon for quitting her husband, she should
have gone to her mother. The defendant had no 1
bnfincnE"To Harbour £cr,— Inc jury, wuuTifthere- 1
fore consider what damages they would giv«. f I
Verdict for the Plaintiff—damages 2001.
NAPLES,, May 4.
In spite of the horrible inquifi'ion eflablifhed" by !
the Minister, and the numberlcfs arrests that have
taken place, people still talk here of the disasters of 1
the array of the coalition, and murmur at the ob- 1
ftinacy of the Government. The refufal of the me> 1
diation of Spain, and all the misfortunes of the
State, are attributed to the Queen, who has always
facrificed the interest of Naples to the views of 1
i her family, and the fame remarks are made upon 1
her conduct as those of the people of Paris on her
nnfortunate lifter. Preparations of war are still 1
going on, but the fermentation encreafes. The
troops in Naples far from being fufficient to op- 1
pose the French, will scarcely be able to maintain 1
order and tranquility. Among the persons arrest- 1
ed are almost all the men of letters, and a crowd of
monks and eccleliaftics. The Abbe Vechietti is 1
dead in prison, after having drank a bow! of chdco- :
late, in which it is fufpefted that poison had been 1
infufed. It is not known whether a number of state I
pnfoners of diftinftion and rank, who were perse
cuted are still alive. The numbers arrested in Na. 1
plesand Sicily are eftimatedat 14,000. Ifthe Go
vernment be compelled to enlarge all whom it has 1
prolrcibed, a revolution is inevitable. ,
TYROL, M<y 25. I
Different proclamations have appeared within
these few days, announcing .the energv with which 1
the Government is adopting the proper measures I
for securing this country from invasion. One of i
these proclamations, dated Infpruek, the 21ft of ,
May, begins in the following manner: t
"We mull unite all our efforts to saw; the count
try. It is essentially ne,effary to the maintenance t
of religion, the conftitmion, the property, and e
very thing that is most dear. We have an entire
confidence in the tried courage of the Tyrolefe na
tion, which conjointly with the Imperial troops who v
are this moment entering the county, are in a con- i
dition to check the enemy if they should attempt
an invasion. But to this end provisions and money
are neceflary ; the former cannot be procured with
out a fufSciency of the latter.' 1 t
Hie Proelamation then goes on to recommend t
the instant converting of the church plate into mo- <
ney. Private persons are also invited to fend their f
plate to the mint, and their arms. u j
A second Proclamation was iffiied on the 22d ess
tabliftiisg the ma.nner of transmuting the church and \
private plate, and the nature of the obligations to <
be delivered for them.
VIENNA, May 16.
Ihe Imperial proclamation relative to the new \
acquisitions in Poland has been publi/hcd «t Vien- i
na .° Q l^e nth inft. and runs as follows : 1
Whereas circumstances have led to a total dif- c
membermcnt of the kingdom of Poland, and where- I
a« we have in softf'qucuce gives orders to take for- c
[t mally poficffion of the diftri&s fallen to onr (hare
re by virtue of the treaties of partition concluded
:r with the Imperial court of Rutin and the royal
court of Prussia. We have'therefore appointed the
e Baron de Margelich our commiiTary plenipotentia
i- ry, and charged him to take the preparatory (l t p S
for the organization of all the branches of the ad
y ministration of those provinces which are incorpo.
is rated with our monarchy, as part of our kingdom*
19 of Gallicia and Lodomiiia, and this, in oui opini
-0 on, will tend to the advantage of the fubje&s.
We now ordain to all the fuhjedls and inhabi.
tants of this new acquifuioo, whatever their rank
and occupation may be, to the clergymen as well
as to laymen to the msgiftrates of cities, in (hort to
everyone without exception, to recognize, the ap
pointed commissary plenipotentiary in that quality,
and to execute punctually whatever he (hall ordain
, in our name. The timo for adiYumttering the so.
' lemn oath of allegiance will afterwards be fixed ■
j nevertheless, all the inhabitants under our foveieign.
1 ty, and prote&ion are bound to obey and behave
as if they had already sworn the-oath of fidelity and
fubmiflion, and therefore the Polish coat of arms
, aught every where to be taken down and that of
our Imperial and Royal majesties fubrtituted. N„
, r tribunal ought in future to adminiller justice, or
pronounce judgment under any than our fovereigt*
e ' name. And lastly we ordain also that the public
t prayers in the churches be made for u& and<fcr il. 1
. luftrious house of Austria. By executing all this
faithfully, the inhabitants will render themselves
' worthy, and partakers of our royal favour, as on
the contrary those who against our expe&ations
I (hould oppose the said regulations or any other ar-
Q rangement, that may in the process of time be ta
ken, molt accuse themselves if we (hall find ourselves
s obliged against our will to employ rigorous mea
sures, and thefeverity of justice inllead of the leni
ty with which we are used and inclined to treat all
otor fubje&s. Franciscus 11.
• May 19.
* We hear from Cracow, that on the 27th the
e* -fftipt 1 Ut''€tnrrmTftwn.?r~CgTari'' flf MaTgetrrir-l>a»
formally taken pofl'efiion of that city, in the name
i of the Emperor. The troops were in parade, as
h well as the Jews, the magistrates, the university, and
e the Chanoiues, The bishop received the commif
e fioner in the Cathedral where a throne was ereited
r for him. The Baron caused the decree of the
a court which authorised him to take poffi.f[io'n of
, Cracow, to be read, rand then the clergy and the '
- [Austrian} troops paid homage to him as the re.
, prefentative "of their sovereign. The Polish arms
e were afterwards taken down and those of Aufttia
s fubftitutcd. The ceremony ended with a dinnei of
, 80 covers which was followed in the evening by an
if illuwiination through the city. It was remarked
that the house of the Rufllan General Lafcy was
is the best illuminated.
Accounts from Ukrania mention that the JsurK
Ruffian armies of 36,000 men each, which are
it destined to protest the frontiers towards Turkey,
it will unite and form but one army ; other irregular
d troops viz. Coffaeks, Calmuks ana Bafchirs will
e join this army, so that it will be encreafed to
d 160,000 fighting men under-the order of Marlhal
o Suwartow. The accounts train of
■- 720 pieceyt>r ai tilEn y -re to be transported to the
banks of the Dniester.
» r
May 27.
The alarm difTeminated by rhe approach of the
French, is deeply felt in every state of Italy. The
y little rejjjjblic of Lucca expr-effed its inclination to
e rife in tßlfs; but the peasants, who, in this affair
>f at least, were wiser than their Lords, refilled the
>- design, (fating, that they were confident they should
:> be fafe at any time by delivering a few pidfures
e from the collections of the wealthy.
s The Venetians were assembled in what is termed
>f the Pregadi upon the fame bufint-fs. The fittings
n lailed three days. The object was to determine
•r whether they (hould arm to make their neutrality
II refpefted.
e The young Senators, probably allured by the in
>- flucnce of appointment or the glitter of arms, re
n commended an armed force vith (frenuous and ar
dent eloquence"
if But the elder and wiser Senators overruled them
is in the debate; and produced a decree, importing,
1- that they would arm only fufficiently to preserve in
n ternal tranquility, feeing that, to oppose, in the
e States of the Republic, the progrels of cither the
Frenek or Austrian armies, required more troops
1- than they were able to raise. .-
i- It is therefore only with paper protcftsof the ter
s ritorial rights of (fates, and imprefcriptable rights
of men, that tße Venetians will meet either the fa
cile French, orthedifappoiateda/id irritable Auf
trians.
n Dai ring the late engagements in Italy, Beaulreu
li must have been in the mod dreadful Jitu'ation. He
s had no more than 16,000 men, when he was torn
if pelled to throw 10,000 men into Mantua, upon his
'f retreat into the T) rol. In that eountry the late
movetnentshad caused a scarcity so extreme, that
they were compelled to exclude ell strangers from
e the Tyrolefe.
e AUGSBURG, May 22.
The French in the city of Milan, pass their time
0 with the utmost gaiety and feftivity. Plays are a£fed
- and balta and entertainments given every night. vM
t
y MADRID, April 26.
Signor Perigoon, the French Ambaflador, went
on the 18th to Aranquez, where the court lefiuea,
d to present his credentials. His train was magmti
- cent, four cabinet mefTengers preceded, and the pe.-
r sons in his suite followed him in four superb carria
ges. The ceremony being over, the Prime Mrm
- fter, Prince della Paz, entertained the Ambafkoor
1 with a splendid dinner, where the members ot the
3 cabinet and the firft nobility assisted.
LISBON, April 12. £
A Negro Prince,fon of the King of Porto fvo
v vo, on the coast of Mina, was christened on the 2d
. inft. in the Royal Chapel by his Emißence the Car
dinal Patriarch, in the presence of the firft oilicen
of the court and other illu(fri° u ß persons. lh<*
- Prince of Brafil having flood god-father on the oc
casion, the Negro Prir.cc received the nams «John Anthony de Braganza ; her Majcfly decora- t.
ted him with the order of Chrillfcs, and his inter- j
preter, Lewis G. dell'Afcenfione, with the order
of St. Jago. Friday following the Negro Prince,
having taken leave of their Royal HighnefTes,
went on board a vefTel which is to carry him to the
bay.
HAMBURGH, Jnne7.
The war 011 the fide of the Rhine piomifes to
extremely bloody, if we may judge from the Pro
clamation of the French Directory, as well as that
of the arch-duke Charles, which is defervingof at
tention. Enclosed is an extract of a private letter
from Switzerland, dated May 26 : " The good tin
derftanding between France and Switzerland be
gins to be re-eftabiifhed, and we learn that nocamp
of Swiss troops will be formed near Bade. The
cantons of Fribourg arid Soleure have ordered all
the French emigrants to withdraw from their ter
ritories, and have acknowledged Barthelemi as am
bassador of the French Republic.''
LONDON, June' 6—7.
Yederday an account was received at the Admi
ralty from Cadiz, containing advice that Admiril
Mann, having taken on board four months provisi
ons and water at Gibraltar, had resumed his Nati
on before the Spanffh port, that Admiral Riahery,
with his squadron, wa3 ready to put to sea ; and a
Spanish squadron was likewise ready to fail, at the
fame time. Admiral Mann, apprized of this cir
cumdance, had sent a message to the Spanish Ad
miral, that it was his intention, at all events, to at.
tack the French (hips, the moment they should get
clear of the neutral port ; and that if they were at
all'aflifted by the Spaniards, they muff answer for
the consequences.
A letter from Leghorn, of the 6th ult. dates,
that Sir Gilbert Elliot had caused the Corfican- in
furgents, to the number of. 4000, to be attacked
with great vigour ; and that a considerable body of
them having been taken -by surprise, in the vicini
ty of' Ajarcin, •AilafptSfrt'-
the rebels were defeated with great loss-, and a num
ber of prisoners made, who ar« to be immediately
tried as traitors.
Saturday two of the rioters at the Hudings,
Covent Garden, who had been for several days no
ticed amongst the molt forward in menacing Admi
ral Gardner with clenched fills and opprobrious
language, were taken before a Magistrate, and after
a full examination, not being able to give a good
account of themselves, and no creditable person ap
peaiing in their behalf, were ordered on board a
King's ship ; and it was recommended by the
Magistrate to fend them on board Admiral Gard
ner's flag ship.
That Mr. Home Tooie in his daily addrefTes to
the multitude surrounding the Hustings at Weft
minder, should attempt to poison the minds of the
people, and by the most inflammatory speeches,
excite them to ads-os riot and disorder difgraceful
to Englishmen, surprizes no-body ; but, that Mr.
Fix can descend to follow so contemptible an ex
ample, is mattei of aftonifhrnent to all, and to the
refpe&able part of his friends,-# fubjocl of deep re
gret and mortification,
Jung ~2i.
A few nights since the Bristol and Birmingham
mail coach arrived at the Hop-pole, in Tewkefku
ry, about twelve o'clock, with four inside passen
gers, confiding of three gentlemen and a lady, when
one of the gentlemen and the lady getting out, left
an old gouty gentleman and another passenger be
hind in the coach. Fresh horses being put to, the
guard and coachman went into the houfeto take a
little refrefhment, when the horses set off full speed,
and passing through the turnpike gate, which was
open, went on for Gloucester, and pafled along the
various turnings with as great legularity as if the
coaehman had been on the box. After going al
most eight miles, to the no small terror of the pas
sengers, they met the other mail coach, the guard
of which, observing that no coachman was on the
box, he went on with the coach towards Bristol.
One of the pafTengers, just before they met the
other mail coach, was so much frightened that he
jumped out, and was much hurt. The old gouty
being unable to follow him was obliged
to flay behind, and was several times heard on the
road, by different persons, crying out murder.
FOR SALE.
. The Brig PUNCH,
Ai» entire new vessel, built, finifhed and fitted
in the bed manner. One hundred and thirty-fix
tons burthen,' and will fail remarkably fall. For
terms apply to Mr. Sage, at the George tavern,
or to ' JOSEPH ANTHONX & Co.
Augujl 26, 1796. ?IO-
Diftrid of Peianfylvania : to wit :
BE it remembered, that on the sth day of August, in
the twentieth; year of the independence of the Unit
ed States of America, William Cobbett, of the said
diftrid, hath depofitcd in this office the title of a book,
the right whereof he claims as in the words
following : to wit.
" The life and adventures of Peter Porcupine ; with a
" full and fair account of all his authoring tranfaclions:
" being a sure and infallible guide for all enterprifins;
" young men who vyiik to make a fertune by writing
" pamphlets, by Peter Porcupine himfelf.
" Now, you lying varlets, you sHall fee how a plain
" tale will put you down." Shakespeare.
in conformity to the aft of, the Congress of the United
States, entitled " an a& for the encouragement of learn
ing, by securing the copies of maps, charts aud books to
the authors and proprietors, during the titnes therein
mentioned; Samuel Caldwell.
Clerk ef the Diftriit of Pennsylvania.
Aug. 8 !»t4 w
WILLIAM HASSELUON.
WAS committed to the goaj of Dauphin county, on 1
the 27 th July last, a lad who calls himfelf ,
William Hasselton-, aged about 13 years, and has red |
hair—fays he wai an indented apprentice to one James
Demster, Weaver, now in Philadelphia, and has lived
fomc time with Peter Egart, near New-Holland, Lancaf- '
ter county ; and further fays, that his mother lives in 1
Rrandywine-hundred/ near Newport. The master or |
owner of the said boy, is hereby notified to come and pay (
the charges and take him away, other wife he will be dif- _
charges! hy dfie courle of law. JOHN M'CHESNEY, '
Hainfljurgh, Auguftai, 1796. 3t jailqr-
( VmsMJLtJIM.tIIWNHMH • »rMSW!Sf. "-f?. •** O
Philadelphia,
FRIDAY EVENING, Accdst 16.
The President of the United States yederday
tectived the Chevalier Martinez. De Yrvjo, as En
voy Extraordinai yand Minister Plenipotentiary frcm
his Cathplie Majesty to the United States ef Ame- I
rica. t
Extract of a letter from a Refpeflable Merchant in J,
London, to a House in this city. r
" I do not regret the treatment of Mr. Jay's j-
Treaty. It was not what it ought to have been,
and might have been, as is generally believed here.
The spirit of the Representatives will be a lefTon to j
future treaty makers. One thing 1 cannot but
express a degree of adonifhment at, and that is the
dread your papers were full of—of a war in conse
quence of the reje&ion of the treaty. This coun
try has more than enough of war already, and A- ( j
merica will ever'derive morejuftice from firranefs,
than by any expreflions of fear."
■1. REMARKS.
Nothing can be more ahfurd than to suppose that
the heroes of the American Revolution were afraid
of Great Britain. No, this was not the quelliou
with the statesmen, the patriots of our country. —
War or negociation were the alternative.-—Not
that Great Britain would declare war againd the
United States, but, that, unlels she would consent
to do us.justice, we should unavoidably be compel- f
led to declare war agtiinlt Great Britain. (
The " treatment of Mr. Jay's treaty" has been f
the means of encreafing thfe public expence6 of the t
United States enormously—and now—its oppofers
are trying to persuade the people, that they never
intended to set it aside 1 Let the people beware of I
such -wolves, who are thus arraying themfebes in e
1 sheep's skins. £
With refpeft to the above letter, its authenticity J
!. may well be doubted when the compof.tion is taken r
into view. If is however singular that certain per-
sons w\\a feel that (heir opposition to the treaty has '
rendered them odious to the independent and free 4
' citizens of the United States should seek for apo
logists among the English, whom they have been in
the habit of abufirig for two or three years past.
> Extractfrom a Ne-vj-HampJhire Paper.
Prance has been ftiled the " torrid zone of libei- '
' ty"—in such a climate the growth of -weeds mtift
be luxuriant—and though our Jacobin naturalists
are continually endeavouring to describe them as
' innoxious, we have abundant proof, that they are :
impregnated with the most deleterious qualities,
and like the poison tree of Java/would, if not
checked, spread death and desolation over the fair
eft country.
From Paris papers .—Tranjlated for the Aurora.
PARIS, June 7.
, LIBERTY, EQUALITY, FRATERNITY.
1 ExtraS from the Oration delivered by the Prejident
of the Popular Society of Milan, in the square of
the Cathedral, the t ~jtb May, 4th year of the
; French Republic, and Jirjl day of Lombardian
Liberty.
, J. TO THE PF.OPT.K %
, THE French have broken the fetters which for
so many centuries have weighfed heavy on us ; they
. have put to flight the cowardly satellites of the
, Austrian tyrant, and by the valour of a free peo
t pie we also become free.
The emblems of liberty already wave in thp air.
: This tree which we have just raised in the midd of
1 plaudits and of the transports of joy of an immenle
, coneourfe of people, announces to alt our future re
-5 generation. 1
; Citizens,
; By this feftival, by these emblems, we declare
- that we are free ; but shall we will to be free with
. fufficient energy ? Shall we determine to imitate the
1 generous people that has driven away our tyrants;
; and shall we be animated by the sacred fire of Li
. beity ; shall we prefer death to fubmiflion to a new
; yoke? Yes, Lombards! Let us swear to live free
: or die.
r Let us hasten, Lombards, to accomplish this
1 great work j let us declare unanimously, that we
: will be free; let us (hew ourselves worthy of be
ing free, and we shall be so in reality. Let Reli
. gion and Liberty go hand in hand. Yes! Let
Tyrants tremble at tha sacred name of liberty ;
and far from submitting to new chains, let the vo
racious Eagle return affrighted to his enslaved
, country.
(Signed)
r CATTACfcO, President.
D. Montegappa, Joseph Barrelli,
' Secretaries.
Liberty, Equality, Safety to Pelrjons and Property.
" CITIZENS LOMBA«CS,
Lombarby, ci-devant Austrian Lombardy, after
having experienced duiing so many centuries the
I oppreflive yoke of a number of usurpers, who have
, mauled it even to dedroying the name of its ancient
5 origin, has at last reverted into the hands of its ori
ginal founders ; this country has ceased to be the
patrimony of crime and tyranny. 1
People ,of Lombardy 1 Let us rife j let us turn
with joy and admiration our view towards those
bra/e Frenchmen, the scourge of tyrants,and let us
acknowledge in them our fathers and deliverers. 1
They have not invaded with projects of avarice 1
and ambition. They neither wish to subvert our 1
religion, invade our property, nor endanger ou: 1
fafety ; their efforts are solely againd our natural- 1
enemy, whom we were obliged to call our sovereign, <
he who.had so far debased us as to make us kiss the 1
chain he imposed. !
Let us awake, Citizens Lombards, the tyrant is <
here no more, he has fled. Let us not delay a mo- I
ment the naming 6f a national representation to '
take out of the hands of the mtinicipalities parti- j
fans of oligarchy, the deposit of the Audrian feep
tre. Let us establish a government founded on the t
rights of man, which shall unite all classes into one ;
family ; a government founded upon the principles !
of liberty and equality ; which (hall be the hope
and solace of the poot hitherto oppressed and deba
fed ; let us waufe to be heard at fad, throughout the
crlobt, that the Lombards have resolutely determi
ned to make themfclves a Country.
the Popular Society of Milan^
FOR THE -GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. KENNO,
THE instances of individual heroifnt in the
French armies are worthy of being recorded, and ,
they do honor to the French Nation. There were J
however as striking and extraordinary traits cf he
roism and firtmiefs discovered by the officers and,
soldiers of the American army during our r'evoltlti
on-war, as were ever exhibited on the theatre of
the Globe. An Officer of Artillery told me, that
in one action with the enemy, every one of his ma- i
troffes \yere either killed or wounded—and of
thffe fvho survived, several were wounded in three
and four different parts of the body early in the ac
tion, and yet continued at their poll till it was en
ded. in another adlion a ferjeant of Artillery
continued at his gun, after receiving seven musket
wounds from the shot of the enemy. Yours
CHRONUS.
GAZETTE OF THE VNITKD STATES MARINS LIST'
PHILADELPHIA, Augujl *6.
Arrivals at Bofton —Augujl 19.
Schooner Two Friends, Capt. Cole, 25 days
from Guadaloupe. Left there, Capt. Smith and
Capt. HiggiiS of this port, Capt. Lunt in a
schooner from Newburyport, and Capt. Horn in'a
brig from do.
Vejfels at St. Pierre (Itfart.) July 22.
Brig Kimhley, Newharen ; Eliza, do. Kifby,
Peggy,' Philadelphia ; Aurora, Plymouth : schoon
ers, Trial, Ropes, Salem ; Sukey and Betsey, In
gerfo, do. Hope, Batker, Ipswich ; brig Three
Friends, schooners, Sukey, Newbu
ryport ; Union, Goodhue, do. brig Ruby, do.
schooners, Charlotte, Freeman, Portland ; Henry,
Green, Boston; Betsey and Nancy, Cunningham,
do.
Vfjch at St. Croix, July 28ih, in addition tc the
alovcmcntioned ucjfcls.
Brig Hammet, Sally, Baltimore; schooners,
, Boston ; Washington, Cooke, do. and
a number of othq», names unknown.
Vijfth at St. Thomas', July 3 1.
Brig Betiey, Twonbley, Portsmouth j schooner
Speedwell, do. (loop Lavinia, New-London, with
a number of southern vefiels.
June 29, was spoke brig Joseph, Capt. Babcock,
from Chailefton, bound to the coast of Guinea, 20
days out, lat. 38, o, long. 39, o.
August 20.
Arrived schooner Rainhfow, Capt. Freeman, 15
days from St. Croix. Spoke, August 17, ship
Dispatch, from this port, bound to the N. W.
cojift, out 5 days.
Sloop Defence, Cajst. Carver, 17 days
from Marygalmite. Left there Capt. Rich, of Bo
ston.
August zx.
Arrived brig Active, Capt. Snow, 57 days from
Bourdeaux, failed in company with the brig Mary,
Csjstr CWaiV—CtiaTteftovrrr. Litrft' 'there (hip
Polly, Colwe'l,to fail in sor 6 days. Spoke bri^
, from Kennebunk, bound to Liverpool,
11 days out.
New-Tork, August 25.
Captain Barnes, of the schooner Ruthy, left at
Grenada, 31ft July, the following vefltls—
Ship Lydia,. of Boston, William Chipman, nta
Iter, belonging to Benjamin Gray, and brig Sea
Nymph, of Philadelphia, George Hasty, matter—
both captured by the Thomas, of Dominico, Wil
liam Bofworth, mailer.
Brig Morning Star, Perkins, mailer, for Kenne
bunk ; to lail in-three days.
Brig Sally, Apton, of Salem { to fail soon,
Brig Nancy, of Norwich ; veflel and cargo con
demned and fold, for carrying on a trade in time
of war, in a manner not allowed in time of peace.
Brig Gayofo, Capt. J. Prince, of Philadelphia,
from Cayenne, Surinam and Demarara, bound to
Trinidad, for a market, with his outward bound
1 cargo on board, was taken by a British (hip of war,
and carried into Grenada.
On the Bth of August spoke the brig Two Sif
ters, of Baltimore, at the entrance of the harbor
of St. Thomas, from Berbice, having put in there
in distress, on account of his crew being ficfe.
TRIBUTE OF GRATITUDE.
ON the 3 111 January, 1796, at half past •)
o'clock in rhe evening, the American brig Friend
ship, Capt. Afcough," in a violent gale, stranded on
entering the port of Lisbon. The vefTel soon fill
ed with water—in this fituawon we remained until
2 o'clock the 1 ext day. The officer commanding
the round Castle, so called, had the goodness to ex
hibit torch lights the whole night. In the morn
ing at fun-rife he alarmed the Bellum Castle and
the city by firing signal guns. The Sea at this '
time wjs so boisterous that n<a one could be prevail
ed on to attempt relieving us. Boats at length
were manned and sent out by public authority, with
orders not to return without effecting our relief,
under pain of death—notwithstanding this, the
boats after having proceeded, were observed to
turii and rowtowaids fhote,'ou which several can*
non loaded with ball were fired at them. They
then redoubled their exertions, and at length reach
cd the brig and took us out—we had then been up
to our armpits in water sos mahy hours. We were
carried to Lisbon, destitute of every thing but the
cloaths on our backs, thoroughly drenched. As
soon as we landed we were mod humanely received
by Mr. Jacob Dohrman, merchant of that city*
who placed Us in comfortable lodgings, and the day
following furnifhed us with cloathing. The bene
volent, humane and polite condtift of-the Portu
guese officers, and the friendly attention of Mr.
Dohrixian experiened by, us on this trying and cri J
tical occasion could not be exceeded, and demand
a more grateful acknowledgement than we are abW
to express.
AMOS WINDSHIP, for himfelf, Capt.
ABCOUGH, and people on board.
Philadelphia, August 25,
Arrived at this fori. dajr.
Brig Fair American, Richards, jcrimie 18
Pragers, Watson, St. Croix 14
A«slive, Rennet, ' St. Bartholomews 13
Stoop Miry, Alettr, Mafttrr, do. 17
Lark, Burrows, St. Bartholomews 13
Liwra,'Bunker, New-York 4
Schr. Liberty, Connor, _ . Baltimore 8
Rambler, White, North-Carolina 5.
A tetter dated Grenada, July 36, informs that 11
fail of American vcfftls, chiefly from Surinam were
taken by the Zebra sloop of war and carried in there.
Ship Thomas, capt. Holland from th/'s port is arrived
at Cork.
The (chooner Boftort, Clirk froth Cipe Francois is
arrived al the Fort.
Ship Star) Vannerhan, from Kiw caflle [onTyne)
is below. j
1 - I -M I-- HI I
Next Wei will be fuhr/iitt'd to public inflection,
The PROSPECTUS
Of a New Periodical Work entitled
7be United States Magazine^
Afld RepositOry of Ufetul and Entertaining Know
ledge ;
Which will be conduced on a new, liberal, and irttereft
ing plan—eacfi number containing h elides the ul'u.il quan
tity of letter press, tvjp neat engravings, and a favourite
song set to mafic.—Price only one fourth of a dollar ; the
publication to commeri?e on the ift of February 1797, and
continued monthly.
. Augufta6. d.
Prime St. Croix Sugar £s° Rum,
Landing at Cliffords Wharf, from onboard the brig *
Pragtrs, Capt. Thomas Watfdrt—
And For Sate by
Pragers & co.
AuSufti6. dipt.
70,000 Pieces Nankeens,
Of the bejl quality and <to reasonable terms,
FOR SALE BV
Philip Nickli'n Isf Co.
Avgufc 46. d t f
No. 139.
Diflri3 of Pcnnfylvania to wit
BE it remembered that on the nineteenth Day of July
in the twenty firft Year of the independence of the United
States of America Thomas Dobfon of the said Diftridt
t hath deposited in this Office the Title of a Bool* the Right
I whereof he claims as Proprietor in the words following
to wit
" Selects e veteri Teflartento Hiflorise or feleft PasTa
" gss from the did Ttftaiiiect. To which is added aa
- " Vocabulary or Di&ionary of 'he words
, •' contained in this Book wherein the Primitives of com
" i ound and derivative words are minutely traced and
" the 11 regularities of anomalous Nouns and Verbs are
• " particularly mentioned—For the use ot those who ai e
> " entering on the Study of the Greek and Latin Languages.
" Quo citius quo facilius, eo melius
".By James Hardie A. M. Teacher of the Greek and
" Latin Languages"—
j in conformity to the act of the Congrefi of the United
States intituled, " An Aa for the Encouragement of
• Learning by securing the Copies of Maps Charts and
Books to the Authors and Proprietors ef such Copies
S during the times therein mentioned.
" Samuel Caldwell, Clk. Dift. Pennfylv.
No. 140.
DiJlriß of Penrjlvania to tuit
n BE it rememb.red that oh the 19th day of July In the
• t twenty-firft year of the Independence of the United Stfttej
of America, Tliorfias Doblon of he .aiddiftriit hath de
posited in-this office the title ef a Book" the right whereof
he claims as proprietor in the words following to wit
') " Unitarianifm explained and defended in a diltourfe
" delivered ir the church of the Univerfalifts at Philade!-
" phia 1796 By Joseph PrielUey, L. L. D. F, R. S. &c.
lt •' That they might know thee the only true God and
«■ Jesus Christ whom thou haft sent. John XVII. 3.
" To us there is but one God the Father of wham are
' "-all things. II Cor. VIII. 6.
■a "By evil report and good report as deceiver* and yet
- " true - a Cor. VI. 8.
] in conformity to the ad of the Congress of tke United
States intituled " An A & for tht encouragement of learn
ing by securing the copies of maps charts and books to
the Authors and proprietors of such copies during the
times therein mentioned."
Samuel Galdviell, Clk. Dift. Pennfylv.
'• No. (41.
Ie DiJlriß of Pennfy/vania to iuit
iJE it remembered that on the 19th Day of July in the
1? the twenty-firft year of the independence of the' United
0 States of America Thomas Dobfon of the said diftriA
j hath deposited in this office th« title of a Book the right
; whereof he claims as proprietor in the words following
r > to wit *
" Discourses relating; to the evidences of repealed reli
f. " gion delivered in the church of the Univerfalitb at
|f "Philadelphia 1796 and publiffieH at the requtfft of ma
"ny of the hearers. By Jofcph Priestley L. L. D. F. R
"S. &c. &c.
" Be ready always to give an answer to every man that
" alketh you a reason of the hope that is in you.
" 1 Pet 111. 15."
in conformity to the aft of the Congress of the United
7 States intituled "An Aift for the encouragement of
1- learhing by securing the copies of maps charts and books
n to the authors and proprietors of such copies during the
[. times therein mentioned."
;i Samnel Caldwell, Clk. Dift. Pennfylv.
No. J42.
Diflrid of Pemfyhania to tuft
, BE it remembered that on the nineteenth day of July
Q | in the twenty-firft year of the Independence of the United
3 States of America Thomas Dobfon of the said diftricSt
hath deposited 111 this office the title of a Book the right
K whereof he claims as proprietor in the words following
to wit
" Cor.fiderations on the do&rine of Phlogiston and the
• " decomposition of Water—By Joseph Piieftlev, L. L.
e "D. F. R. S. &c. &c.
o " Qualem commendes etiam atque etiam afpice."
1. " Horace."
in Conformity to the of the Congress of the United
States intituled " An A6t for the encouragement of
learning by securing the copies of Maps Charts °aad Books
P to the authors and proprietors of such Copies dui jng thS
e times therein mentioned "
e Samuel Caldwell, Clk. Dift. Psnnfylv.
S — —:
d t or Charter
' TO THE WEST-INDIES,
y 4-— =■ Ihe Snow HOPE,
Capt. Rindge, now ready for a cargo,
w Cirr y 2000 barrels. If not engag
"• in ® ve dj y*' wiU freight for
J Boston and Portland.
d For terms apply to
4 . Samuel Breck ? jun.
Roll's Wharf.
Where may be had,
A quantity of Boston Dvwc, Nos. i & 2,
AUg. 16; djt'FOR S A t B„ M
A. very Valuable Estate,
CALLED 'TWITTENHA M, lituatr in the > P K
townlhip of Upper Derby, andcountyof Delaware,
7 i-2 miles from Philadelphia, and half a mile from the cei
v.cw Western road: containing 230 acres of excellent land, :
1S of which are £00d watered meadow, 90 of prime wood- P u
bn ), and the reft arable of tha firit quality. There are r!
on the premises a good two story brickhoufe, with 4 rooms de<
on a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a pump-well dit
t'f excellent water in front; a large frame tirji, ftablcs, mc
and other convenient buildings ; a fmohe-houfe and stone,
spring-house ; two good apple orchards, and one of peach
es. The fields are all in clovat, except those immediately
•under tillage, and are l"o laid nut as to have the advantage
of water in each of them, whick renders it peculiarly con
venient for grazing. Sc
The filiation is pleasant and healthy, and from the high
ei- Mvntionof the land, the good neighbourhood, and the
vicinity to the city, it. is wry suitable for a getitleman's
country feat.
The foregoing is part of the eflate of Jacob Harman, ~~
and offered for sale bv
Mordecai Lewis,
Oft. 9. eo-3 Surviving Executor.
Wafhmgton Canal Lottery,
N°. ,1.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorised
the underwritten, (;o raise twenty-fix thousand,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Walhington, from th Po
tornado theEaftern BranchHaruour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
V Viz --1 Prize of 40,000 dollars, 20,000
I ditto 10,000 10,000
*££££} «<»•
6 ditto 1,000 6,050
16 ijitto 400 4,000
30 ditto 100 3,000
55 ditto 50 4,75°
,57,50 ditto is 69,008
To be raised for the Canal, 46,350
5850 Prizes, , 175,000
llfito'Blanks, not tw® to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
£5" The Commissioners have taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid aft for the punctual payment si
the prizes.
The drawing of tliij Lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice tv\!l be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after the
drawing is finilhed, Avail be considered as reliuquilhed for
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed) NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, 6f D.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of Wathingtoß, Tib. 11. $
Lottery
FOR raifingfis thousand fix hundred ahd Cxty-fevc*
dollars and fifty cents, by a deduction of fifteen per
cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a prize, viz.
I of 5000 dollars is doHsrs 5000
1 1000 1000
i 500 500
5 300 toco
je 100 3coo
99 jo 49J°
400 35 jooo
»000 10 40,000
5 Last drawn numbers of 1000 dollars each, 5000
*333 Prizes. +4.450
4018 Blanks.
6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44,450
By order of the Directors of the Society For eftablilh
ingUfrful Manufactures, the fliperintendants of the Pat.
erfon Lottery hive xequefted the Managers to offer the
foregoing Ssheme to the public, and have directed them
to refund the money to those persons who have purohafed
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
in this Lottery.
I'he lottery has actually commenced dfawing, and will
continue until finilhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
may be fcen at the office ol William Blackburn, No. 64 '
south Second street, who will give information where tick
ets may be procured.
Dated this 17th day of June, 1796.
J. N- GUMMING, ")
JACOB R. HARDENBERG, Managers.
' JONATHAN RHEA, )
ARISTOCRACY,
An EPIC POEM,
In 2 Cantos, may beTiad at B. Davies's Book-Store, No.
68 High-ftrcet. Aug. 19 §6t
Lands of the United States
Treasury Department, Augufl 3, 1796.
Public Notice is hereby Given,
IN pursuance of an ail of Congress, $>alTed on the 18th
day of May, 1796, entitled " An aft providing" for
thefale of the lands of the United States, in the I"errito-
Ty north weft of the river Ohio, and above the mouth of
Kentucky river," that the feftions or lots of land defen
ded in the annexed fcheclule, lying in the seven ranges of
townlhips, which were furueyed in pursuance of an ordi
nance; of Congress, patted on the twentieth day of May,
in the year one thousand seven hundred and eighty-five,
■will be exposed for sale at Pv.blic veudue.in the town Or
Pittlburghin Pennsylvania, on the twenty-fourth day of
October next, and thenceforward, from day to day until
the ftrft day of December enfuiag, unlet s the said lots lhall
be sooner fold, in the manner, and on the terms a-nd con.
ditions herein after mentioned, to wit: ,
ift. The said feftions or lots lhall be fold under the di
rection ef the Governor or Secretary' of the Weltern Ter
ritory, and such person as the President of the United
States may specially appoint for that purpose.
id. The said fetftioiis or lots lhall be fold to the highest
bidder, but no sale can be made for less than two dollars
v.cr acre of the quantity of land cop.tained in such lot or
Itftion.
3. The highest bidder as before mentioned, lnuft depo
sit at the time of file, one twentieth part of the purer afe
money, in the hauds of fnch person as the President of the
United States fnall appoint to attend the fa! es for that pur
pose, which will he forfeited, if a moiJty of thefumbid,
including the said twentieth part, lhall not be paid wittiin
thirtydays from the time of sale.
4ih. Upon payment of a moiety of the purchase money
in the manner before mentioned, the pin-chafer wi l be
entitled to ooe year s credit for the remaining moiety ;
an>l lhall receive from the Governor #r Secretary of, the
Wtftern Territory, and the person wh6 shall be appointed
by the President of the United States, to direct the falcs.a
certificate describing tha lot or f;6tion purchased, and de
claring thefum paidonaccount, the balancc remaining due,
the time when such balance becomes payable, and that
the whole land therein mentioned, will be forfeited, if the
v.';' 1 ' > '
said balance is rjo' then paid ; but ivhe said i'dance shall
be duly difchar-ed.by paying the fume to the Trrafurcr of
th- United States, the purchaser or his affiance or other
le K sl representative, fiiall be entitled to a patent lor the
said lands, on his producing to the, Secretary of State a re
ceipt for such balance endorsed upon the certi r ate. But
if any purchaser (hall make payn«nt or the of the
purchase money, at the time wh:n the payment o! the |
; firft moiety is directed to be mad.-, he will be entitled to a
dedudtion of ten per Centum on th ' part for which a ere-
[ dit is authorized to be given; and his patent lhall be iro
mediately iflfued.
Given under my hand at Philadelphia, the day and
rear above mentmned. 1
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury
" . .he
Schedule cf fetlions of townjhips, or fractional parts day
I of townflips, to be fold at Pfitjburgb, inpurfua-.ee un!
0/ the 6th fcflton of an aB of Congress, pvjfed on
the 18th day of May, 1796. r ' n ,
■ 5 t i : i~ hig
« s ■ J i £ J i; i dol
<3 | -s -a j ° I v :
% 2 I » 55 __ P°
* ■ --— chz
ift Range, 6thTownfhip. 6th Rangk. g ;a
ift Townlhip. Bai2 64oeacli iftTownlhip. j nc
48 5 65 14 640 17 3 20 thi
' 49 256 95 i7aso 64oJeach 18^170
30 350 75 35a36 64oeach 41 8 50 ne;
34 340 90 BthTownlhip. 23 166 40 be
35a36 640 each 3ai4J64o!each '43 427 am
4d Townlhip. 17120 640 eacli 24 640 ft l '
19 I 40 23 640 37 151 80
40-170 70 25a30640each 38a3o64oeach ' ,e
31 185 33136 64oeach 33 58 tlO
33 3 30 iothTownlhip. 34336 640|each P a '
25 488 80 ia2 640 each 2d Townlhip. P a '
s6ai7 640, each sai 4 640 each 1 126
28 560 17320640 each 2 440
29 551 60 23336 640 each 3 448
30 564 i2th,Townfhip. 4 < 456 ma
640 each 131464 c each 5 464 tin
4thTown(hip. 17 330640 each 6 471 be
19 64 233361640 each 7 340 ten
*1 H° n B al *64oeach giv
46 ,87 60 lftTownfll! 17 a40 640 each
37 36 , , £ 640 each
31332 640 each 4 3 6 3 dToWr.i ? .
33 616 30 440 1 47 °
34 445 10 34 5i 5 2 478
\ 5 , 35336 640 each 3 455
ttbTnu (li'n 4dTown(hip.'- 4 Of
jthTow. Hup. a 2( , P 5 J0 » fu>
6 135 SQ 3a6 640 each 6 . th*
14 479 3° . J- 7 ai4 640 eaeh
17 15 o , I 17320 64oeach —
18 638 50 , 23336 640 each
450 75 h *VtowW ,
24 640 3 , . x 8 «
! , 2 526 a
5;: to ' <» Z
Jl I3dTi a-nftiip. %
iai4 64oeach , 5 . o
ad Range. 17330 64c!e3ch . , v
IftTownlhip. 23336 640 each 7a14 40 ,
»o , -I .ut '«.■ *7140640 each
38 720 s thTownfhip ' a ;ath _
34 ' 650 1314640 each «.•
3d Townlhip. 17 120 640 each 2
24126640 each 233361640 each 1
J 38 499 *6 7thTownfhip. 1
■*' 49 64c la 2 64o[each 3
3 Ta 537 640 each 4 sr
-4thTown(hip. I2a*3 640 e3ch i ,
0 *1, ' T 71*4 640 elch
0 " 397 50 , 640 , 17120640 each
13 *I s * 640 64c each
*5 37 50 gthTownfhip. 3 (} ; To tnfhi P .
16 259 20 1114 64oleich 14640eac P h
3 is a i t
-0 20 80 lai4 , , r ,
° 31 63641 17 320 64ojeich " I 4
44136 640 eaeh 23136 640 eich I7iU z / - 40,e1C ;,
. jthTownfhip. tjthTownlhip.
R 5 63c iai4 640 each r .
d 6a7 eich i73io64oeach * al 4 4C en
ts 23125 W each 23136640 nch
3 7 it8 64c each = a \ a , 3 ' 640 " cll
II 33336 6 4 0 each 5^ XA "I ,J,hT r" ft 'l'
7thTownlhip. n 14 640 each
4 ' 16401 18 274 40 1 7 ai °!6 4 0|each
SrhTownfhip. " 87 JO 2 3 a 36 6^,each
135 64oeach 23 27 7th RanCE.
6 440 24 ift Townlhip.
7 ai4 64ocich _ 30 1 420
5 * 1 7 a20 640 each l 3 ' 4 20 36 1*33150*
" *»»3o«Seach -dTownlhip.
9th Town Blip. ' 4 3 35
6 64c I „ „ 4 645
, ** 64c 30 64c Jh sf
, u adT. ownlhip. y ,
Ijai4 64c each i i loan 64c «?acn
/ v- 1 150 20
19120640 each ; 14 30
43a36 64oeach 3 17318640 each
3d Range. 5 456 19 14
ad Townlhip. 6 464 80 "° ,
. * 43a24 640 each
*5 640 7 15s J ,,
b 16 600 8 618 J'.}* v
)r 40 50 9ai4 640each 1 fi 3 -! nf C
3 " a*32 x 640 each 17 120 64c each j4 " °, wn "'^,'
* 43 609 6 4 oleachi I ," 4 H"^
45136 640 each 4th lownlliip. 7 -I, 4 | ;
s St it
9 60 17a20 640eadi tiitii , K
Y» ; c ■ * v iai4 640.each
e, " 1 44 J3 i 3 4 64 °e ch 1 7 a40 6 4 oL'acfh
,i, .01 JO 1 7 >,05«01,d,
ill x 5 630 23336 6 4 cpach 4
n . i6atß 640 each BthTownlhip. ' 4 '
19 217 50 13i4j64o|eath A, 4 ~" „ .
li- 30 6*6 75 *7120 64c eich Iothl " W " hip /
:r- 41136 6 4 oeach 23»36!640|each * aI 4 04ceic
ed 4 thTownlhip. iothTownlhip. *7 a 40 640 each
1 170 i2i4|64oi=achi! 2 3a36 6 4 oeach
eft i 544 -ich Townlhip.
lrs S 320 23a36li 4 oleach *a* 4 6 4 c|«tck
<"• 4 450 T2thTov.nlhip.! 6 4 c eath
j 12c iai4|64<-leachi 27,336 fc.,c|<^ch
6 64c I7S2C 6 4 cl'3ch| UthTownftip
f 7 563 23a36|64o|each| *«4j6 4 o|eich
S-d9 64c each 'i4thTowafnip.| (l ' a2 °'^°!
u *;- ro 54c So | iai 4 |64ojcach 2 6 4 c|each
' J ; ' 11 529 70 i7a2cK>4o]eachj ownfhip.
' 14H4 64c eich 53i361640 ei.ch *a*4 640 each
1712 c 640 each 1 17120 640 each
be 23»3t|640 ;ach 1 6 40
■f i NOTE.
the THEquantities of Lands in the several townlhips be
ted fore mentioned, are exclusive of the Lots reserved bv the
:s,a Un ted States and. also of those formerly fold.—The ag
de- gregate quantiri.-s m the several townlhins or fractional
lue, parts of town&ips, have been ascertained by actual fur-
Jvat vey; the quaattties in particular lots or fedions, have
tHe been no o:iitr>yifc afccrtaiuad than by calculation.
1
Lands of the United i
Treasury Department, ,
jl'ngufi .8,1 796. c
Public Notice is hereby given,
IM -purfiianCe of anaA of Congrcfs paflTed on the 18th ' j
thy of May, 1796, entitled " an aft providing " for
the fall: of the Lands of t lie United States, in th- territory £
north-weftof the river Ohio, and above " the mouth of
' Kentucky river," that the Quarter TovWShips of land
delcribed in the annexed schedule, lying in the seven rang
es ot townships which were lurveyed in purfuanee of an
ordinance of Congrcfs, passed on the twefttieth day of
Mav in th- Year one tkoufand seven hundred and eighty
fivc''will b-''<-oofed for file at PUBLIC VENDUE, at
he Merchants' Colfee-Houre in Philadelphia, on the 4th
! day of January next, and thenceforward from May today,
t until the tenth day of February ensuing, unless the said
1 quarter townlhip» fhallbe foonsr foM, in the manner and
on the terms and Condition^hereinafter mentioned: viz.
ift. The said quarter townlhips (hall be fold to the
highest bidder,' but 110 sale can be made for less than two
dollars per acre of the quantity of .land contained in such
quarter tawsfhip.
2d. The hightft bidder as before mentioned, mult de
posit a* the time of idle, one twentieth part of the pur
~ chafe money, in the hands cf the Treasurer of the United
States, which will be forfeited if a moiety of the sum bid,
including the said twentieth part, (hall net be paid within
thirty days from the time of sale.
3d. Upon payment of a moiety of (he purchafe-me
ney in »he manner befor-imentioned, the purchaler will
be entitled to one year's- credit for the remaining moiety ;
and Ihall receive a certificate describing the quarter toivn
fhip purchafcd, and declaring the sum paid on account,
the balance remaising due, the time when such balance
becomes par/able, and that the whole Land therein men
tioned will be forfeiced, if the said balance is net then
paid ; but if the said balance Ihall be duly discharged, by
paying the fame to the Treasurer of the United States,
the-pvrchafer or his afTigp.ee or other legal representative,
ihall be entitled to a patent for the said land, on hu pro
ducing to the Secretary of State a receipt for such balance,
endorsed upon the certificate. But if any purchafcr shall
make payment of the whole of the purchase-money at the
time V/hen the payment of the firil moi«ty is direeled to
be made, he will be entitled to a deduction <jf ten per
centum on the part for which a credit is authorized to be
given ;, aad his patent shall be immediately ilTued.
GIVEN under my hand at the daj ___
and year abov'ementioheff.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
S CHE B U L E
Of Quarter-Towndlips to be fold at Philadelphia. ♦-pur
fuancc of the 6thfeftion of'an aft of Congrcfs palled on
the 18th day of May, 1796.
,o *&.
u u> kz
6. .5- t =
„ - OS
fct rS ~ O
£ F > «- E- 1
k & O
d C r ° « v. J*
U-. r - L u rj re
O ». c a v
o c Z ® ,=
2 o 5 Z *,
zO 2 3
/_ E
-2 I Softth East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
3 "j [South Eafl 5120
[Hu'ili L.HI 5 I2U r-|
(South Welt 5120
North Weft JI2O
—— 20,480
7 South' East 5120
North East 5120
South Welt 5120
North 5120
— 40,480
9 Sourh East jiz'o
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
' North Weft 5 1 20 I
- ■ — 20,480
11 South Eafl 5120
North East j 120
South Weft 5 120
North Weft 5120
20,480
I' 4 4 Sauth East 5120
North East j 120 so
South Weft 5120 th
North Weft ci2o ra
D th
,20,480
6 South East 5120
North East 5120 {
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120 ■
20,480
15 South East 5120 J
North East 5120
Soil th Weft 5120 ! "j
North Weft
5 120 I J
— 20,480 t!
10 South East 5120 ' "
Ncith East 5120 f,
Sonlh Weft; 5 120 | t
North Weft 5120 t
! 20,480 | «
12 South East 5120
Novtft Eall 5120 f
South Weft j 120 c
Nortb Welt, 5120 >
20,480 c
5 3 Soutfy East 4602
' North East 4654 J
! Sooth Welt 5120
North Welt 5120 | 1 .
* 9,496
5 South East 5120
North East $120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
7 South East J l2O
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 51^0
be- 20,480
the 6 South East 5 120
North East 5 120 1
fur. South Weft 5120
lave North Weft' 5 120 I II
! ; *0,42® J
'• ! u£ •
1 ,• °-
.5- ! s "<£
'3 « £
b£ . 'S " f
= a. 5 u* o
c 2 <si J* « ■ >- M
c £-« XL
is o -g U
p° £ < I s
ok* £ G C
f * h ri
'
, ii Sotfth East 5 120
f North East 5.1 20
South Weft 5 120
North Weft 5120
* 20,480
1 13 South East 5 120
d North East 5120
South Weft J 1 20
e North Weft 5 120
P 20,480
6 4 South East 4630
North East 4620
South Weft 5120
j 1 North Weft 5120
• 19,490
6 South East 4730
1- North East 4715
'1 South Weft 5120
' North Weft 5 120
£ * 1 9.68J
c 8 South Eaft]sJ2o
- Nqrth East 5120
n South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
1. 10 South East 5 120
North East. 5 120
*' South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
;r 20,480
ie 12 South East 5120
North East 5120
y "-jg|
North 5120
20,480
14. South Eafl 5120
North, East 5120
r . v South Weft 5 120
n North Weft 5 120
20,480
~ 7 .3 Soufh jjiaft 5120
Notth East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5 120
20,480
5 South East 5120
North Eafl y 120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5 120
20,48 a 0
= 1 South East 5 120
Notth East 5 120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5 120! I 1
20,480
9 South East 5 120
__ North East < 120 1 I
South WeH 5 120
North Weft <; 120
20,480
M South East 5.1 20
North East 5 1 20
South Weft 5 1 20
North Weft 5 1 zo
20,480
13 South East 5120
North East 5120
South Well 5120
North Weft .j 120
20,480
15 South East 5120
North Eali ji2ii
South Weft 5120
North Wcfi 5120 K
I 20,480
NOTE.
THE quantities of Lands in the several town(hip6 be
fore mentioned,are exclafive of the Sections reserved by
the United States. The aggregate quantities i« the seve
ral townlhips, have been afcertair.ed by actual survey ; but
the quantities iD the quarter tewnlhips, have been no
j otherwise aicertainej than by calculation.
— ■ ■ t
Letters Patent,
Granted to the Subscriber, for the Cure of
Incurvations and Dijlortion: of the Spinet
By an improvement in Stays and an. Apparatus.
I VERY thing-has been studied to render this appliea
_i tion fafe, cafy, effectual, and generally ufeful, and
that if ceceflary, it may be accompanied with any other
mode. '
Thv success of the Patentee in the cure of di (Portions,
from Incurvation* of the Spine, the Wry Neck, &c. in
this city and in different parts of the United States, under
the infpeiftion of eminent phylicians, when every other
mode had failed, will, it is hoped, afford the public fuf
ficient teflimony of the utility of this application.
N. B. He makes an apparatus for restoring diflortcd
feet in children—Bandages in general—Trusses of various
dekriptions, and one in particular on a plan entirely new,
which in fume cases is found *0 answer better than any
other.
He returns thanks to thafe medical gentlemen in ■diffcrj
ent parts «f the United States who hive honored him with
their patronage and confidence.
The Ladies are lefpe&fully informed, that he has
an elegant assortment of Stpys and Corsets for Salr, wliick
v/ill "be altered if necessary, free of extra charge. _
LUNDIN M'KECHNIE'
Ang. 16 iiwjw No. 17 Bock-street»
Elephant.
,' I ""HE Public is informed that this animal will leave Phi
i 1-iJclphia on the FIRST of September instead of the
xoth, 'till which time the Proprietor will continue to ex
hibit him as usual, in High-street near Tenth-street.
Aug. n 3
mmm.mjLmjmmu.u 1,1 I...JJL IMJI, —BWW—w——
PRINTED BY JOHN FEN NO,
—No. 119 —
!CHf SNUT-STEEET.
[Pricc Bight Dollars per Ann«K.]