of the Unites & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser,
Number 1277.] WEDNESDAT EVENING, OCTOBER 12, 1796. [VCLOME X.
For Sale by the subscriber, °'
At the Merchant's Ceffee-Haufc, on H'ednefday even
ing, the I lib instant, at 6 o clock,
.t—7t_- THE SHIP i
General Washington; £
White-oak frame ; built at Wilming- Qr
3P3p3®K£ ton, state of Delaware, in the year 1-90 ; (j
80 feet 5 inches keel ; %) feet I inch beam ; 12 feet 9 , c]
inches -tieM 5 burthen 251 tons; is a strong, firm built afi
vefM; in compleat order, and ready to receive a cargo : u
POl fuiriii'i particulars, inventory and terms, prior to .
the evening of sale, enquire of S AMUEL SMITH, ihip- m
broker, No. 86, Sout^Front ftrcet. _ w
John Connelly, Au&ioneer. i»
Oflober IX- dtS - 5'
For Boston, v!
The Brig Diana, j
i' f Lying at Chefnut-ftreet wharf; will fail
vf; in a few days, and take freight on mode
rate terms —for which, or passage, apply on board, or to ' 3
Joseph Anthony Co. "
O (Sober 10. dj w
For Sale, *
• The brig FAIR AMERICAN, tl
Captain Richard Callev,
AN entire new vessel, and wellfinifhed a]
1 built at Newbary-port, (N-E.) her plank j
a nd timbers white oak : Sails well, and s i
it completed}' fitted—her dimensions are 57 feet keel, strait t j
rabbit —21 feet beam—B feet 8 inches hold, and 4 1-2
between decks. She is now discharging spars, near the
' Still-hosfe wharf, Southwark, and if not disposed of i»
a few days will be fold at public sale at the City-Tavern,
on the evening of the 13th in (I.—Apply to
ISAAC HARVEY, jun.
5 South Watcr Street.
lothmo, loth. diw.
At Public Au&ion,
jit the Merchant's GoJJce-Houfe, on IVednefday evening
next, the nth irifl. at 6 o'clock,
j *y-- The very remarkable fail failing
Schooner Lively,
Built at Kensington in 1794, of Cedar
' and Live Oak—6B feet 3 inches on
SbiifctSSwSfe^S deck, 19 feet 6 inches beam, 8 f*et 4
inches hold, and carries between 5 and 600 barrels flour;
flie wants nothing bu*. a flying gib to fit her for sea, and
may be seen en the South Cde of Hamilton's wharf.
ALSO, 2
jThe Brig Liberty,
WKfflHaLAt Stamper's wharf—burthen 1309 bis.
tzs£ilry3 flour, fails very fact, and is in order for
i sea—having been completely sheathed
in June lad by Mr. Nathaniel Hutton, of Southwark, .
iiad several new fails, one entire new cable, two new
boats, and otberwife completely found-
Approved indorsed notes, at 2, 3, and 4 months, will .
he received in payment for both veffeis.
John Connelly, Auctioneer.
~ O'Sober. Bth, 1796. d' s
The Brig MARY,
v.: -iLying at Messrs. WiHings and Francis's
•Wharf,burthen zoo barrels, built in Philadelphia in 1793, r
•„f live oak and red cedar.—She is well foHnd, and may f
be sent to sea at a small expcnce. For terms apply to
Gurney & Smith.
oa. 6. dtf
"district court, ) IF~
p f nnfylvania Diftrifl. 5 "
IN DTfuance of a vrit to mc dirc&ed, from the J
Honorable Richard Feters, Esquire, Judge of the Dil- J
trid Court, of the United States, in and for thq Pennfyl- I
vaniißiftria, will be exposed :o Public Sale at the
Merchan/s Coffee-Honfe, in the City of Philadelph.a,
»n Wed:iefday the lathday of Odober inft. at ta o clock
at nootf, the SHIP called
The JOSEPHUS,
jjlfcfy w ' th all and ® n g ular her ta«kle» *ppa
and furniture, as the fame now a?«,
the been condemned to pay mariners
wages, &c. WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marital.
Marihai's Office, 4th October, 1796. d
FOR LONDON,
The capital ship CERES,
Jv^V','fH^> ,To &il l° on « : — For freigl ll or paflage
t° DAVY, ROBERTS & Co. or
John Vaughan,
September io. Front-street. 1
' * \
or * !
The Ship Mary Ann,
Francis Stuart, matter: is a ftreng, good
■ {hip, fails fact, and has good accommo
dations for passengers. Great part of her cargo being
ready, (he will fail in 10 days. For freight or pafiage
apply to the Captain on board, at Peter Knight's wharf,
Or to Stuart & Barr.
Sept, 29. dtf No. 100, South Front-street.
For Charter,
Tlie Dan!ni Barque Beneventura,
Samuel Stub, mailer,
a good velTel, of about two hundred
tons burthen. JESSE & ROBERT WAI.N.
Sept. 17. dtf
For Charter,
The Ship Dtminir.k Terry,
mmMm Dc Hart, master : an excellent I
veflel, of about 3000 barrels burthen.
Jeffe & Robert Wain.
SeptrmV.rr ii. d
jOoarding and Lodging
T\TO GENTLEMEN may be acccmmeda'ed with
Boarding ,and Lodging, in a family and pleasant
part of the city. Apply to the Printer of the Gazette of
the United States.
O&ober 11. * ttic;tf
On Wednesday evening, the \itb injl. at 7 o'aSti, at
the Coffee-Houfe,
Will be Sold by Public Auction,
off
A LARGE, elegant, and well finilhed three-ftery .'
Brick HOUSE, (the late residence of Gen. Walter
Stewart,) with a Lot of Ground thereunto belonging,
on the Weft'fide of Third-street, near Union-street, con
taining in front 31 feet, and in depth 100 feet to an alley en
leading into Union-street. The House is, 3i feet front,
and 50 feet deep; the several rooms contained in it are
large, commodious, and compleatly finilhed; the two
firli ft(V"ic» are each thirteen feet, high; there are ten
mahogany doors in the ht>ufe, a geometrical ftair-caie IJ I
with mahogany rails, and a good fey-light; the kitchen ]ab
ii in the cellar, which is spacious and convenient, and -
finiOied with an oven, stew holes and pantries, a servants'
hall and large wine cellar adjoining thd kitchen, in front
of which is an area in which is a pump; the yard is'
vaulted. Communicating with the said building, is a ;
neat, three-story Biuck HOUSE, on the North fide of 1 -■
iJnion-ftreet, containing zo feet front by 26 feet deep,
[ the lower part of which is at present occupied as a compt
ing-houfe, and the upper part divided into well finilhed ' hl
, l?rge chambers: this House, may, at i small expence, be |"°
converted into a convenient dwelling ; the ftroet door is ; t| c
very handsome, and the front and back have Venetian
window-ihutters. Adjoining the last mentioned house, " c
upon the lot belonging to the firft, are ereAed Bathing- j ex
Rooms, &c. there are likewise very good Coach-HoUses |
and Stables, finilhed equal (or nearly so) with any in an
> the city, on a lot, containing on Union-street 20 feet,
and in depth on the Weft fide of the said alley J2 feet— .
there are good c«l!«fs under the whole ot the buildiug, !
and a Wine Room over a part of the Stable, with a Hay a
| Loft over the remainder. 'Approved notes at 60 and 90 |
days will be taken for one half of the purchase money,
f the remainder on like notes at five months, feeurity to be
1 given on the premises until the whole is discharged. _
FOOTMAN & Co. AuiSioneers.
6th Oa. dti?th
>—— — X 1
Just Imported,
Tin Plates in boxes £l
Sheet and bar Lead " .
Shot—all sizes, paten*" and common 1
Copper bottoms and sheets PI
Englilh shoes and boats in cases
r Taunton Ale in calks of 10 d»z. each at
Baflcet Salt
Wool Ca»ds 1
Gold Watches. cc
For Sale by
r Simon Walker,
1 Oa. 7. mwfim Dock-street.
I- - -
i For Sale^
30 Hoglheads of choice New-England
Rum, to
Landing from the schooner John, at Vanuxem's wharf.— tl
For terms apply to No, 71, North Water Street, at the
j head of the wharf.
oa. 3.
» .■ ' ~ ———————
The Cargo of the Polacre Independent, r
1 /CAPTAIN CATHCART, from Alicant and Lif- •
V/l bon, landing at the fubferibws wharf —
28 Pipes of Brandy
' 18 Bales of Spanifli wool
3 do. of Annifeed
7000 Bulhels of best Liibon Salt J
80 Boxes of Lemons
For sale by WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
—A.L S O,
s Seventy Hogsheads of prime JAMAICA SUGARS,
' received Uy the ihip Dominick Terry> Capt. De Hart,
from Kingston.
Sept. 13. d
. Wm. HOLDERNESSE, "
No. 76 High Street,
HAS received, by the latest arrivals from Europe and
the East Indies, a well feleaed assortment of Silk
- Mercery, Linen Drapery and Haberdalhery Goods; which
- he will fell, Wholesale and Retail, en the lowest terms ; b
e AMONGST WHICH ARE,
J, Some fine India muslins embroidered with gold and fflver
k Superfine Book, Jaconet, and Mulmul ditto
Do do do do Handkershiefs
Some extra black taffeties,lut«ftringsasd colored Pcrfuns
Bandano Handkerchiefs
Long and Ihort Nankeens
Englilh Mantuas of the firft quality
Damalk table linen and napkins, very fine
Silk Hosiery, an elegant assortment
Thead and cotton do
Umbrellas—green silk, oil'd de. and do cloth
French cambrics, very fine
Irilh Linens, do. &c. &c. June 14 $
re NOTES LOST.
, r "TX THERE AS two notes drawn by Benjamin Hafeell
W and George W. Kirkland, dated Boston, the 24th
February, 1796, payable to Joseph May, ©r order, in 18
months after date, one for One Thousand Dollars, the
•other Fifteen Dollars, were stolen with some other papers
out of a trunk on the Lancaster road. It is requested that c
a»y person to whom they may be offered for negociation,
will give notice thereof to the subscriber**
GARRETT COTTRINGER.
Sept. 30. "stf
"
;e Great is Truth and must prevail.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And for fate at No- 41 Chefnut-Jlreet by J. OR M ROD, {
An Apology for the Bible,
4 By R. Watson, d. d. f. x.'s.
Bi/hop of Landajf, tS?c. j
d Being a complete refutation of Paine's
Age of Reason,
Awd the only anfvver to the Second Part.
- August 30." dt
' 1
Plans of tKe city ofPhiladelphia, \
Including the Northern Liberties and diilri<2 of
Southwark,
Poblilhed, and fold by
BENJAMIN DAVIES,
No. 68, High street,
(Price one dollar.)
THIS plan is 26 inches fqtiare, and has been en
h graved by one of the firft artists in the city, from a late
n and accurate survey. Purchasers are entitled tg a pam
of phlet with each plan, giving " some account of the
city, its population, trade, government, &c.
July 19 tu&ftf
A GOOD HOUSE, x
FOR SAIE) \
THE .fubferibes, isttnt on moving to tllfi countrA
offers for file, the HOUSE in whieh he now «•_
Its heafthy and beautiful situation, opposite th?
of Mr. Bingham, needs neither comment or eulogium." 1
PoffelTion will be given 011 or before the 15th of the
enfuii'.g month.
THOMAS TINGEY,
No. i2t, South 3d Street.
He has elfo for Sale,
A small handl'orae assortment of work'd and plain
INDIA MUSLINS, which he wHI dilpofe .of reason- —
I ably. dtf. Oilober iq.
Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64, South Second street.
TICKK'IS in tha Canal Lottery, No. 2, Tor sale—a
Check Book sos examination —and prizes paid ;n
the late lottery.
' 1 Check Books kept for examination and rcgifterirtg, for
1 the City of Washington, No. 2, and Pattefon Lotteries, _
j both of which are now drawing—information where
, ; tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New
} Port Lo'ng-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
examination. , Pr
; j The fubfeHber foticits the application of tha public q £
, and his friends, \vh- with to purchase or fell Bank Stock, q 3
t Certificates, Bills»«f Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands, gh
. ] &c. or to obtain money on deposit of property Ka
) I *.* Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for i n(
' sale at Ten Doilsrs etch, which will be drawn early in g e
> ! the Spring. C<
Wm. Blackburri.
: Philadelphia, AughJl 18, 1796. mth
—1 111 - '
UNITED STATES, 1 rt-
Peftnfylvania Diftrift. J JJ'
NOTICE is kereby given, that pursuant to a writ p
to me., direfled from the honourable Richard Peters,
Efij. Judge of the Diftriit Court of the United States,
in and for the Penufylvania Diflriil, will be fold at
public sale, at the Custom-House floras, in Front, belcw .
Walnut-street, on Monday the 24th inft. at 12 o'clock F<
at tioon.
THIRTY BAGS COFFEE,
The fame having been libelled agamfl, and
condemned as forfeited in the ftid Diltrifl Court.
WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marihal.
Marihal's Office, Bth of Oilober, 1796.
For Sale,
By J. WARDER, PARKER Co.
j An Invoice of Cordage,
Confiding of different sizes, from 12 inch cables down
to rope of 2 inches, of different lengths: Imported in
- the Ihip Swift, from Hull, and entitled to drawback.
£• Sept. 27. dtf
c
Saies of India Goods.
5 The Cargo ef the ihip Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cal
cutta >cutta and Bengal,
CONSISTING OF
AL?.rge and general assortment of Bengal and Madras G
COTTON and SILK GOODS. 1 '
AMONG WHICH ARE
A variety fine worked and plain Muslins,
Doreas, Also, -S -
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar, . I
-In boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER, j
For Sale by *
Willings Francis,
No. 21 Penn Street.
Jane S § a
NANKEENS, *
d Of the frji quality, FOR SALE BY,
k RD. and JAS. POTTER,
h For any quantity above Five Thousand Pieces, a li
beral credit will be given. R. & J. P. ,
September 13. T. tf
:r ~ ~ j
70,000 Pieces Nankeens, i
1S Of the bejl quality and on reasonable terms,
for saLe by
Philip Nicklin ?S° Co.
August 26. dtf
Philip Nicklin & Co. 1
HAVE FOR SALE, \
Souchong
Hyson Skin /
Young Hyson > FRESH TEAS
Hyson and \
.]] Imperial
h Yellow Nankeens
:8 China Ware, assorted in Boxes and Chests
le Quicksilver
rs Bandanno Handkerchiefs of. excellent quality in
at chests
n, LondotrMarket MADEIRA WINE.
London particular >\n pipes, hogsheads, &
New-York Market j quarter calks
Teneriffe Wine in pipes and hogsheads
_ Sugar Candy by the Box
Sail Canvas No. i a 8
Lead in (heets
3 Calks of Cutlery aflofted
A few chests of Manchester Goods, afforted,thick
' sets, eerds, striped Nankeens, &c.
3 Small packages of black sewing-silks
if Tierces Virginia Snake-root.
Nails assorted in calks
July t8 mw&f
> s — .
Wanted to Rent,
A convenient, well furnifhed Bed Chamber,
With a good fire-place, in an airy and healthy part of
the city. The person whe wants to rent foch a chamber,
would have no objection to board, or breakfaft only, with
the family occupying the house, as may be mod agreeable,
of Apply to the printer.
September 29. taw
TAKE NOTICE.
THE f&bfcriber intends to make application for a re
newal of the following eertificate, supposed to be
loft on the passage to England in April 1794 :
n Certificate No 10335, dated 15th November, 1793,
"e for 2830 dollars and 92 cents—Six per cent, domestic
debt, on the books of the Treafuryol the United States,
he in the name of the Hon. John Trevor.
ROBERT BIRD, at John Warder's,
Philadelphia, August 30th, 1736. ?tu&f6w
University of Pennfylvailia,
OF.ober 5, 1796.
The Medical Letlur.es will cpmmynce the firft Monday
I rti RgvemLer. tawgw ,
\ FOR SALE.
PORT WINE, and
HOLLAND GIN, of :he firft qualities in Pipes.
FRAUteCES and VAN REED,
Brokers and Commiflion Merchants, No. 63,80. »d St»
Who difeount approved NOTES of hand.
N. B. A«i APPRENTICE Wanted.
September 14- mVf f
For-fale by the fubicribers,
IN PSNtt-STKFET,
130 quarter Chests freffi Hyson Tea; ,
100 ditto do. frefh Souchomj Tea;
300 Boxes China, containing small tea setts of <jA
pieces;
400 pieces Bandanees.
Willing! & Francis.
Tanuary 30 tr&f
FOR SAL I-,
By N. and J. FRAZIER,
No. 95, S. Front-lh-eet,
Prime Boston Beef, ia barrels.
| Georgia Cotton. % «
1 Carolina Rice and Indigo.
' Sherry and Teneriffe Wines, of excellent quality.
Ravens Duck.
, Indio BaHdanlio's.
Sewing Silks various colours.
Coffahsand Gurrahs-.
Sspt. 17. tt^w.
By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
' Sold hy WILLIAM BLACKBURN, A r o. 64,
' Stuth Seandjlreet.
) . SCHEME of I LOTTERY,
For railing Sixty Thousand DoUars, agret ably to an .A"£l of
the Legiflaturc of Pennfylvaaia, OolTecf during the lait
feflion, for building a Stone B*»*ige over the River
j Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, in the County of
Berks. Dollars.,
1 Prize of 20.00© Dollars - 20,000
' 1 do. of j.0,000 do. * - io,coO
3 do. of 5.000 do. •
4 do. of 2,000 do. • - 8/000
20 do» of 1.000 do* . 1. - 2-0,000
39 do. of 50© do. - • »9 o°«
• 80 do. of 200 do. >* i6,0g0
200 do. of i©o do. ... 20,0 c©
300 do. of $0 do. - I^,ooo
n 1 d©< of 500 do. to be paid the posses- £
n for ©f the firft drawn no. $
5 do, of 3,000 do. to be paid pofleffors )
of the five hft drawn nos J 0
9,400 do. of 15 do. : 141.0C0
10,051 Prizes 300,00 0
10,046 blanks —
[.
30,000 Tickets at Ten Dollars goo,ooo
AH Prizes shall be paid fifteen days after the drawing is
is finilhed, upon the demand of a poffeflor of a for unatc
licket, fubje& to a deduction of twenty per ctr.i. The
Drawing will commence as footias. the Tickets arc d'fpofed
of, or perhaps sooner. of which public notice will be given#
Philip Miller, Peter Kerjhner, William Witman,
Joseph Hiejier, J&mes Diemer, Thomas Dundas,
James May, John Otto, John Keim, Daniel Craef t
SebaJlian Miller, Commissioners.
Reading, May the gth, IJSS.
Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. 4, to be had at :ke
above office,\vhere the earliest information of, the draw
ing of the Wafcington No. a, and Patterfon Lottery's,
are received, ajul check books for examination and regit
teringare kept.
October 7. aaw tf
Thomas Rvcrfon
j
HAS just received, by the (hips Molly and Hamburgh
Packet from Liverpool, aad the Light Horse from
Bfiftol, and is now opening for sale, at his store No.
177, Markek-ftreet, an extenltve aflortment of v
Ironmongery, Cutlery, Hardware
and Saddlery. •
The ftiip Caroline, now on htr paflage from Liverpool
— to Philadelphia, brings the remainder of his fall impor
tation. 1
N. B. At the above store may be had, a elegant
Mahogany Cases for Table Furniture 5 also, a good as
sortment of the best kinds of Knives and Forks.
Sept. 13. ' d
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
By W. YOUNG', MILLS and Son,
Corner of Second and Chefnut Jlreets,
Price ii f-a cents,
The Prefidtnt's
m To the People of the United States,
It/TIMATING
& The rcfolution he has formed to decline being considered
amohg the numbe-r of thofc out of whom a choice is to
be made, at the ensuing eleStion of a Prefidcnt of the
United States. .*
Sept. 20. \vfs
THIS DAT PUBLISHED,
By J. ORMROD, No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet,
(Price it 1-2 Cents)
The President's Address'
To the People of the United States,
Announcing his intention of retiring from public life
at the expiration of the present constitutional term «f
presidency.
September SO. .d
of . . No. 153.
er, JbiJlriß of Pexnfylvattia, to W't.
ith BE it remembered, that on the tw'cnty-fourth day of
lie. September, in the tWenty-firft year of the independence
of the United States of America, William Cobbett of
the said diftriit hath depefited in this office the Title of
a Book, the right whereof he claims as proprietor, ia
the words following, to wit.
re- " The Political Censor, or Review of the molt inte
be " fefting political occurrences relativs to the United States
"of Amcrica—By Peter Porcupine"—ln conformity to
93, the A<a of the Congress of the United States, intituled
ftic "An A(st for the encouragement of learning by fecurir.j
tes, the Copies of Maps, Charts and Books to the authors
and proprietors of such Copies, during the times thtreir.
mentioned." SAMUEL CALDWELL, Clerk
j D;lln£i Punßfylvajoja,THE PANTHEON,
And Ricxetts's Amphitheatre,
For Equeftrlin and Stage perforriUnces, Comer of
Chefnut and Smth-ftreefs.
THIS EVENING, Wednesday, October 14,
A Brilliant Display of Scenery,
AND ORNAMENTAL PAINTINGS,
New lights, and a great variety of
SUPERB DECORATIONS.
TO-MORROW Evening, Thursday, October iw
Will be presented,
"A variety of pleafmgEntertainments.
E<Jueftrian Exercises—by Mr. Rickctts, Mr. F. Riekett#,
Master Hutchins,"and Mrs Spinacuta.
Clown to the horfemanftiiff —Mr. Suliy.
After which will be performed, a BALLET, called
The Two Philofoph'ers,
Or, The Merry. Girl.
Two Philofophers—Meffr6. During and Tompluns.
Merry Girl—Mrs. Tompkins.
HORSEMANSHIP—by Mr. kickeits.
TIGHT ROPE DANCING—by Mr. Spinacut*.
EQUESTRIAN EXERCISES.
The whole to conclude with a COMIC PANTOMIME,
called,
The Death and Renovation of Harlequin.
Harlequin—Mr. Sully.
Old Man—Mr. Dtirang. j
Lover—Mr. T ompkins.
Clown—Mr. Spinacuta.
Ariel—Mils Robinson.
And Columbine—Mrs Spinacuta.
Superntmaries by the reft of the Company.
The Pantomime to conclude with a DANCE. 1
gf The doors will open at 6 o'clock—Performance
"commences at 7 —Boxes ys. 6d.—Pit 3J. 9d.
• Tickets to be had of Mr. Ford, at the ticket office in
Chefnut-ftreet, from t«n to three o'clock each day.
gy" Silver S'ickets, to admit for the fiafon, to be had
by applying t<S )Mr. Picketts at the-fantheon, or at Oel
ler»'s Hotel.
. - — 1
To be fold by Auction,
A Country Seat and adjoining Grass
Lots,
§n the 14th day as oSober, at 10 a'clscl, A. M
THIS plea/ant and commodious House, is situated on
a 40 feet p#'ic lane, leading from tbfr Ridge or
Wiflahickon Road, between the thirifafid fourth mile
• ftcne, across the canal to a landing on the river Schuylkill.
It is-a two-story brick House, with a large, new, stone
Kitchen adjoining: it contains two neat parlours, four
bed-rooms, and a light dressing closet; over the kitchen
are two other bed-rooms. In front and at the south end
is a n«w piazia, extending between eigliiy and ninety
- feet, by nine and a-half feet wide: adjoining th.e Kitchea
is a Pump of excellent and never failing water, with a
shed for wafhirig ; the whole under an agteeable (hade of
large trees. This Ctuation has been afceraineS to be
more than one hundred and Cxty feet in heighth above
the river. At' a convenient distance is a frame Coach-
House and Stables, in good order. Ob the fotith-weft
fide is an excellent Orchard, containing about eight acres,
and upwards of one hundred and fifty apple and othei'
fruit trees of the bed kind. On the nofth-taft fide is a
fitld .if Clover and Timothy, put in last Spring, with a
space fenced off for a Garden —the Whole containing be
tween and eighteen acres.
At the fame time and place will be soW, the follawing
Lots, adjoining the premises and each other, viz.
No». 1, 2, ,i, 4—Four Lots, each measuring ill front
on the Wiffahiekon road, about nine perches, by about
fiity-one perches deep, and about twelve p Aches wide it
the south-west end, each Lot containing nearly four
acres—Clover and Timothy put in lad year.
Ne. 5 Fronting on the above-mentioned lane, con
taining upwards of four acres—Cloves and Timothy
put in last year.
Nos. 6, 7 —Alf' fronting thfc feid forty feet lane, and
each containing about seven and a half acres; Clover and
'Timothy put in last year. /
No, B—Contains about sixteen acres, all in Clover,
bounded by the faidlatfe and another lane leading to Jo
nathan Williams' house: it is an elegant situation, cot-a
mandins a view of the neighboring feats on b»th fides
ef the river. On this Lot is a very large Hay-House,
capable of containing one hundred and fifty tens, with a
' ;t>ump and yard open to the fouih. calculated te flail-feed
■***" cattle.
A Draft of th» whole will be produced at'the time Of
sale, describing the contents of each Lot, and the con
ditions will then be declared; a fart tuly 0f tit payment
will he required on delivery.
N. B. The above-mentiened lane now communicates
utth the path of the canal, which is a good road to town
In all fcafons.
For further particularsapply to EDWARD 20NSALL
and Co. in Dock-street.
RICHARD FOOTMAN, Audieneer.
'. OA. io.
Loft last Evening,
-At RMtetts's Amphitheatr-, (supposed to be taken by
. dome villain out of a gentleman's pocket)
. A red Morocco-Leatrier POCKET-BOOK,
Containing about 185 dollars in banknotes; three notes
cf hand of Rose and bimfon. No. 304, 30.5 and 366, da
ted lith last August, p yable 60 days after date, to the
•rder of Paul Siemen, together for 5150 dollars j an ofder
of Mrs. Ann N'acpherfon, from Paul Sieaien, on Lach
lin Mac Neal, Efq.at Port-au-Prince,for joodollars ; be
sides several letters arid papers of no use but to the proprie
tor. The notes of band and order are without endorfb
tnent. EIGHTY DOLLARS REWARD is offered t<s
any person who will discover and secure the thief, and
FORTY DOLLARS f<* only bringing the above menti
oned notes and papers if No. 129, corner of Front and
Mulberry flreets. d OA. 11.
No- 151.
D[flri3 of Pawfylvania, to wit.'
BE it remembered, thai on thef<venteenth day of Sep
tember, -in the twenty- rft year of the independence
of the United States of America, Mfiiiiam Mitchell, of
thefaid diS riA, deposited in "tins office the title of a book,
Ihe right whet cOf he ckints as author, in the words fol
lows g, to wit:
" A new and complete system of book-keeping, by an
" improved method of double entry, adapted to retail, do
" mcftic and foreign trade ; exhibiting a variety of tranf
" a&ions whicn ufuallv occur in bafinef's. The whole
" comprifedin tht/e lets of books; the bft set being a copy
" »f the fctond, according to tliofe l'yftems moll generally
' 1 in use, is giVch in order to exhibit, by a comparative
" view, the advantages of 'he system bow laid down. To
•- which is added, a table of the diities payable on goods,
" wares and merchandise imported into the United States
"of Aurcrica. The whole Iri dollars and cents.
" By William Mltc^u.*!!.''
In conformity to the a<3: of the Congrcfs Of the TJnited
States, intituled," An act fer the encouragement of learn
ing, by securing the copies of maps, charts and books to
the authors and proprietors of luch cepieJ, during the
times therein mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL, elk. dift.
Pennsylvania.
' N. B. The above Book is now published, and may be
kii of the Bockftlkrs. Oilier j. *4wiaw
CO NT IN UA TIO N OF
f FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE,
sr rat late jrripals*
✓A SWITZERLAND. ' .
Ty" B E K N E, July 1.
note, tranfmiitcd by £lr. Wickhtffi, rojni-
fiora hiakritannicjnaiellv', to
■ the oenate of Berne, the 26th of 1796.
M Magn'Jicenl and powerful Lords,
™ " 111 confequenee of the resolution sgreed to and
publilSd by your date, refpedling all.the French in
. difciimiiiately, who h*vc taken in yotir cplin
try, several of the heads of families of thtfe unfor
tunate viftimi to their attaehmant to the ancient
laws oT their country, have addrefied themselves to
me, t« obtain the means to repair to England, where
they hope at least to find rcpofe, and afy
ium ajainil the crueky of their persecutor*.
" It is with extreme concern, rtiagnificeht lord#,
that I find myfeif to re'fufe their requelt,.
and to declare to all of tfcem, that 1 cannot grtnt
a paflport to any of them, until I have received or
) der» from my court. 1 think it necefiary, m»gni
ficent lords, to comnunicate to ysu my resolution
upon thi» fubjedt, in ordtfrthat the persons, to whom
it relates, may not be ftifpefled of any neglect or
■ tardiness in obeying the ordinance made refpefting
them. God forbid that, in taking fneh a refolu'i
on, I fcould pretend to set bouiidt to the munifi
cence of my sovereign, or the generosity of his ftlß
jedls, which I hope, will exitt as long at rhe monar
chy itfelf. We have always, magnificent lords, a
confidence that our trtrans will by divine
t favour, in propottion at they arc employed in assis
ting the unfortunate.
I " But, it ft my duty, in this unforcfeen cafe, tp
■ take no step» without having previoully communica
ted to nly court all the circumstances which have
preceded, accompanied and followed this measure,
and intreatcd his majelty to me the moil dit»
tindl orders ft>r the regulation of my condufl in all
that relates to this business.
" I do not hesitate to avoW, that I hsre not been
without hope that the delay which might be caused
1 by my resolution in the execution of the order
against those who have no other afylirm but Eng
-1 land, would have offered to your lordships an op
portunity of confidcring of every mitigating cir
■ comftance, of which this cafe is capable. Perhaps
1 *lfo, this delay may lead those perfbns, who have
1 urged this measure, to think deliberately both up®n
itt nature, and the confcqucnces which may ensue
' e *
t from it.
F " Whatever may be the event, msgnificent lords,
: in adopting and cammunicating this resolution to
: your lordlhips, jf I can be ihe muans of saving any
[ one of those refpeftable families from exhausting
their lad resources, in taking a long and dangerous
voyage, I (hall think that 1 have performed my du
-1 ty to my God and my king ; and I dare answer,
1 that whatever may be the sffeflion and friehdfhip
Vrhith the king, my matter {after the example cf
his august predecessors) feels for your lordlhips, thcTe
sentiments mad be much strengthened, when I foall
t have laid before him a frefl* aft of yours—of that
generous and enlarged humanity, which forms the
. distinguished character of his reign, and which ouf
t«o nations have formerly exercised to the unhappy
. refugees from that fame country.
r With the fincereft wishes for the profperit'y
, and happiness of your date, 1 am,
j " Magnificent and powerful Lords,
" Your Lordships' moll devoted Servant, /
Signed, « W. WICKSAMA^
Vienna, Augud 2.
1 This morning a boat arrived here laden with ef
l fefts belonging to the chapterand cathedralof Ra
j tifbon, which arc effimated at 300,000 Austrian
florins.
1 The nutaber of fugitives that arrive fcere from
' f the banks of the Danube, 13 considerable. This
lodgings extremely dear j rhe prico of a
s room in the hotels is a ducat a-head'j and afelvants
1 room half a dueit. At the Golden Bull, upwards
of 400 perfont have arrived within thefc fix days,
' at the hotel of the Holy Trinity, 300 j and atthi
others in proportion.
PARIS, Au?. i 5.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORY.
r : _ STATE PAPER.
Tb« ambaflador Sweden, to the citizen minister
of foreign affairs.
| " Paris, August 1, 1796.
. " Citizen minister,
r "Itis by the express order of my court, that I
- have the honour to renew, before the direflofy, the
■ fleps I had already taken for the admission of M. de
| Rehaufen, ia the quality of charge d'affaires of his
. majesty tvith the French republic.
1 " Inviting you, citizen minister, to take again
- into consideration, a step so conformable to the good
1 intelligence which fubliftt between the two coun
tries, I beg you will permit me to make fotse ob
fervationt, which I submit to the directory.
" The confidence which friendly & allied powers
reciprocally owe each other, the refpeft which is its
. result, has always been indiftriminately granted to
f the perfoH chosen by his fovercign to repieftnt him
, —it is even inseparable from it. Both have, how
ever) been neglected in the person of bL de Rehau
j ien. His private sentiments can the less give um
- ro e government, as he would ccrtainly fa
. crifice thetfl in tlie e*ercife of his funftiotW) if thev
: eouid be contrary to the inttrudtions he has received,
and if in his conduct or in his language, he could
[ be wanting to the treaty which fnbftlh between
, Sweden and Francc. And it is in this cafe anlyj
, if a mifundcrftanding Ihould take place between the
s two governments, that his recall woula become ne
ceflary. Bnt since this is not the cafe, his sentiments
,• cannot be confrdered as a valid motive of exciufioii,
. and the refufal becomes consequently less an injury
, done to M. de Rehaufen, than a \Va:it of rtfpedl to
■ his fovercign.
y 1 mud likewise remark, that M. de Rchiturtn,
being at Paris, has beeq appointed to attend ad
, interim to the affairs of Sweden, at a time when
a rupture with Roffia was every ieftant cxpetted>
1
! and when the Svtedifh at that comt «'J"
on the eve of quitting his post. His appointment
could noc therefore liave been influenced by the
■j emprtfs of Rufiia, to whom lie is otherwise ail ut
ter fit anger.
"It is £r>r these renfons, citizen mini Iter, that 1
am unable to attribute to the person of M. de Re
. haufen the refufal of the diredorv to acknowledge
. ~ him in his public character. This refufal appears
evidently to announce the intention of. dik»bliging,
U in lh ( e face of Eurdpe, the mod ancient friend of
France. "1 hesitate to pronounce a mor<; decrfive
fuppofitioir; it is too repugnant to the known withes
of the Swedes and the Ffench, thertifelves, as like
wise to their rcfpefitive and at the fame
time it would be difficult for the enemies of tooth
(countries, not to find great fatisfaition in the dis
union of which the trench republic Btay have given
the signal. It is prescribed to me to declare, that
if M. de Rehaufen be not acknowledged, his raa
jefly will be obliged in support of his dignity, to
use reciprocity with regard to citizen Pcrrochel. I
This ntceffity will othe;rwife hate no influence 'oil
the desire Which his majesty will always havfc, to
ftrenjrthen the bands of friendship and good under
Handing -which ought to exist between the two i
powers.
«' PleaTei citixen. minister, to accept the affur- ■
ance of my most sincere attachment. <
(Signed) E. N. ST,A.EL DE HOLSTEIN.
CH. DELACROIX." ;
(A true copy.) j
Army of the Rbint and Mofille.
*Extra£l of public orders, dated 6 Tliermldar, Ju
'y 24. .
The third battalion of the 2<sth half brigade of ,
light infantry having behaved very ill, and having
committed difordew in the village of TifFonbroun,
has been sent two leagues in the rear of the army,
where it will be employed in night 'Watdhes, with
the bucks of the soldiery turned to the. enemy.
The commander of the battalion has been sent to
Strasbourg, to be imprisoned for a fortnight. '
(Signed) The adjutant-general, *
FRIRION.
LONDON, Augtift 16.
It appears, by letters from the French generals ;
in Germany, that'general Jom dart is confined by
indispositiOn, and that the commahd of the army '
has devolved on general Kleber, who has obtained 1
fame partial advantages Over the Auftri*ns. The
French, in that quarter, continue to advance, and
the Auftrians to retreaj. The head-quarters of the
latter, when the accounts came away, were near
Donawert on the Danube.
It is fsid that the emperor hasrefolted to confine (
his efforts in future to the defence of his hereditary
dominions, and has sent coVnmiffioriers to negotiate
a treaty with the French.
We are happy in being able to lay, upon the aU- ]
thority of letters from the molt refpeitable raer- 1
charits of Lisbon, that no appiehenfion there is '
entertained frem * 'visit faom the French. The '
greatest rejoicings have taken place in that city, on ;
account of the fafe arrival of the Brazil Sett, which
has brought home immense wealth to Portugal.
Government was iro sooner informed of (tie de
sign of the French against Leghorn, than order*
_ were sent te admiral Jervii to use reprisals again It
Porto Ferrctja, directing him, however, to obfej ve
tli< ftri£teft attention as to the convenience of the
inHabi'ant# in doing so. orders ttie admiral
Wfc executed with as much skill as fuccef*. <
, / ' August 18.
W Much was yesterday reported of a threatened
expedition against some part of the French coast
the object of which is said to be tie deftruftion of
• certain vessels fitted out for a hostile purpole againlt
. this country. It appears by the Portsmouth letter,
, that two very strong squadrons have failed. Their
immediate destination is unknown. '■
It is how confirmed, by the arrival of lord Hugh
s Seymour's squadron, that there is no French fleet '
, at sea, as was rumored. 1
s It is said that the admimftration continue to rp
s ceive from the Spanish ambassador resident in this
kingdom, as well as from the Catholic king »nd
E his miuifters, through the medium of the marquis
of Bute, hi* majesty's ambaflador at Madrid, the
mo ft perfed afTurances of the court of Spain, not
not only to preserve inviolate its pacific intention
towards this country, but also to exert its full pow
ers of mediation in bringing the present holtile
r state of the powers of Europe to a speedy termina
tion.
BOTANY BAY.
'■ By a letter from governor Hunter, New-South
: Wales, to his friends in Leith, dated 16th of Oc
f tober, 1795, We have the following particulars
8 " Phis settlement is wonderfully improved fincc
the time I left it.—lt appears now to be making
' rapid progress towards an. independance for provi.
3 fion. Our corn fields (wheat) at this present mo
ment appear as beautiful and luxuriant as any 1 ever
saw in any part of the woild } and barring thofc
accidents to which all countries are liable, we (hall
1 have a rich and abundant harvest. Our gardens are
s equally produaive ; we shall have a variety of fruit
' —European as well as tropical.—Our grapes are
1 m immense quantities ; some of the gentlemen from
- their own gardens expect to make a butt, some two
- butts of wine this year. The few cattle we have
• are thriving amszingly. The sheep and goats arc
- wanderfully prolific ; three lambs at a time ia no
' uncommon thing, and that twice a year ; the goats
, fhll mote so. We find the best breed of fljeep to
1 be the small Bengal ewe and the large Cape ram :
1 they produce a middle fixe, which is delicate fine
S meat. All the faperftuous males among the goats 1
S are prepaied for the pot or spit: and are so fine, 1
• that I would defy even an epicure to fay whether it (
s was mutton or caperato he was eatirtr. (
, " The four gentlemen, whom of the t
' magistrates of Edinburgh provided for our colony t
) 1 have feeii and c-nverfed w.th separately lincc mv
arrival here, they seem all of them gifted in the I
, powers of convention. Muir was the firft I s aw j a
' 1 th "«gkt him a sensible, mode ft youi g man, of a t
very retired turn, whichi certainly, his (ituaiion in s
. this country will give hire an opportunity of in- £
u dulging : lit said nothing on ;he fctenty of h
u fate; but leaned to bear his ■cirrumHanccg i*rth «
ie proper degiee of fortitude and reflation,
t- " Skirviiig was the next I saw ;he appeared to
me to be a fenfibie, well informed man ; not young,
I perhaps fifty—he it fond of farming, and h;» p UI .
chafed a piece of ground, and makes good life 0 f
x it, which will by and by turn to his advantage,
rs " Mr. Palraei paid me the next vifi't she is faiJ
to be a turbulent, rcitlefs kind of marl, it may be
>f so, but I mull do him the justice to that 1
>e have seen nothing of that diipofition in hiiu lincc
it my arrival. , : tt 0- 1
" Mr. Margarot seems to be a lively, facetious,
,e talkative man-; complained heavily of the ilijullioe
h of his sentence, hi which, however, he found I
f- could not with him. I clioofe to appoint 3
n time for feeing each fepatalely and on the whole
it I have to fay, that th'«r general conduct is qm'-p
1- decent, and orderly ; if it continues so, they will
0 not frnd me dif'pofed to be hi>.rfli or diflrelfing to
I. theni.'' ,
II , r~7y
u BALTIMORE, Odober 7.
Gen. Smith, has been unanimously returned to 1
a Congress, from this rlifirifl, without
This is the third time he. has been chofcn, which it I
a proof that his couftituents approve of hi» politi- I
ca! conduit.
David M'Mechin and Robert Smith, eiquire»,
are el«£ted to reprcfent this town in the enftiiug
general assembly.
WIMINGTON, O(Sober to.
At the close of the general eleflion held on Tuef."
day the 4th in ft. the poll flood as follow* in thff fe
f veral count ics of the state .• /
5 New-Castle county.
> Federal ticket. Opponent*.
» Reprefcutative in Congress.
' James A. Bayard 404 William Peery 44^
General Jljfembly. ,
■> Senator.
Themzs Scan 383 Arch. Alexander 47®
Representatives.
Thomas Lea 347 Cxfar A. R*j!ney 455
Sam. Hollingfwotth 392 Nehemiah '1 ilton 452
Jacob Broom 392 James Stroud 486
8 liaac Grantham 396 Joel Ltwis 456
r Joseph Israel 384 Robert Armftroßg 476
7 William Frazer 565 Robert Maxwell 44$
1 Benjamin Merrit 395 Eliaj Naudain 44.7
s Kent county,
1 Rcprcfenlative in Congress.
' JameS A. Bayard 985 William Peery 831
r General /tjfembly.
Senator.
s George Cummins 960 Peter Lowbet 855
f Reprcfentat'foes.
e James Raymond 1013 Abraham Pierce 856
Manlove Emerson 959 Rifdoti Bithoj> 844
• Nicholas Ridgely 982 Joseph David 811
* William Warner 956 WiHiam M'Clyment 854
s William Morris 946 Willwra Hughlett 853
e William Sordeft 9J4 William Adams 872
" Stephen Lewis 962 Pumcl Stoffland 974
1 Sheriffs.
Hfinry Mollefton 1 005 Dickenfon Morris 707
• Biinckley Roe 954 James MiUefs 820-
* Sufiex county.
Rtpri/entali've in Congress.
c James A Bayard 903 William Peery joft
e General sijfemliy.
l ' Senahrs. _ .
George Mitchell 903 James P. Wilson 51 1
Nathaniel Hayes 900 John Marsh 476
Reprtfenlatmu.
William Hill Wells 899 David H 5.
* Robert Burton 914 John '1
' Woodman Stokely 881 Eli!h; i. . j ,
'» Samuel Paynton 899 Jofep .
r .David Owen# 931 Willi: £f ,l'. 4. if
Thomas Sorden 895 John < 1 rd i| >
b John Williams 890 Curti ucaU 1
I Sheriff.
Thoir.as Fisher 1354
Total votes for Reprcfenta'.ive
3 , James A Bayard 1
-1 William Peery s
s . '
e fflajoiity for James A. Bayarc -
£ ______ _ I
_ fOR TH£ GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
e THE PANTHEON,
And Rickett's Amphitheatre, opened or Mon»
iay evening last with a moll pleating variety of
equestrian and theatrical performances vihich wete
leceivcd with that degree of applause which is al
hi ways the reward of meiiv from a truly reipe&abte
and very numerous assembly.
The Pantheon l.as undergone a mod complete a!-
e teration since the lall fcafon ; th<f (lage is enriched
y with a variety of new and well finifhed scenery, and
• appears to the utmost advantage ; it is embellilhed
■ with a new frohtifpiet-c, reprelenting Phcsbus dri
r ving the Chariot of the Sun ; the horses arc well
c executed, and appear, as if animated with all that
II fne and spirit, which have so long been the favorite
e thertie of the poets. The stage doors are neatly
t pannclled in a pink ground, with parterres in the
e centre of each.
ri The roof of the Pantheon is a dome, covered
0 with a profufion of superb paintings, the centre of
e the dome (from tvhich a large chandelier in the
e toim of a bell is suspended by a richly gilt chain) is
a a biilhant piece, reprefentiag the heathen deities,
s Jove is diftovered fitting, and holding in one of his
0 hands the thunderbolt,.and is supported by the A
: merican E«gle, and stripes, &c. See. At the extre
e mity of the dome, and over the boxes, are affixed
s large Lames, representing the gods and goddefTeSj
» placed in highly ornamented niches, with all their
t concomitant and vatioHS emblems. Over the chain
of the chandelier aie seen two Cupids with flaming
e torches, represented, as contending who (hould have
, the honor of lighting it. 1
1 Ihe boxes are plain cieled, and painted of alright
; hraw colour, with circular wreaths and psrterrts,
} and pannelled in the as the stage doof»}
i the lower parts at;u Front of tije boxes are covered
1 with drapery, relembling the colors of the UruteJ
Sta:« of America. The feats arc covered wit®
i*. A
I/* v 'W. «' • r
grtn, Wne eneifart and rendered high- i
ly op venic-t for a moit « <»u« an Hence. The
box d.mrs have each *pa icon device painted on
ihcm. with their prof- r Ames and emblems, so that
. it will be a »rea; coiive.iitncy fjr thole, who wish
to fe-ar«.' boxes pricr to the perform; :-e, as the bos
t» that are {» taken, will tfe known by their names
as well it, their numbers.
The Pit is ornamented in a (imple yet elegant
style ; and so convenient that all the fi>e&ators may
bare a good view without incommodiri;; eah other;
the back of the pit and front of the cirrus is richly
marbled ; the front of the circus is ornamented
with pedestals, which arc conne&ed together by i
scapulas and gilt chains. On the circus doors arc
painted two warlike eqoeltrian figures. The pit 1
doors are ornamented with the tragic, and comic '
muses, properly delineated ; the whole forming a 5
" tout enfemlle" which does'great honoe to Mr. 1
Ricketts, wot only as proprietor but as contriver
of the pantheon, it being built and ornamented on <
an original plan of his own.-—This being the only
building of the kind in America, and probably
equal to any thing of .the fame natupe in Europe ;
every friend of tafta cannot help feeling an interest '
/or the advantage of ttie equestrian manager, and 1
wishing him all the fuecefs that his endeavors to '
please the public so defarvedly merit. '
An AMATEUR. *
- .. _ _ t
Philadelphia,
WEDNESDAY EVENING, OCTOBER tl, 1796. I
FEDERAL REPRESENTATIVES. V
Ext raft of a letter from the Ecflern shore of Maryland, "
dated the yth infl. u
j 1 congratulate you on the issue of our Elections in w
I this quarter, Dodtor William Matthiws, a Fen
f- deralift is eletSed a'Representative in Congress in the S
I place of Citizen Christie ; and William Hin»- „
man, Eiq. is re-ele<£ed by a great majority. j
' a
COMMUNICATIONS* C(
It appears by late advices from Europe that, in eon- -
ifequence sf France having taken possession of Leghorn, 1
Grcat-Bntain has helped herfelf to Porto Ferrajo, ano
ther port belonging to the Grand Dyke of Tnfcany. r '
It is expected that thexxtlufi-vc patriots of Tufcanv, in "
imitation of onrexctnfive patriots, will greatly rejoice ol
at this event- 'I'hey will readily vindicate the conduit w
ef Great-Britain by '« asserting her right to take a just ar
vengeance for the fraudulentneiitralityof Tufcanv, and m
the treachery of her pretended friends." See the Au
rtra of Tuesday. P'
—
The arguments employed by the Jacobins of this f®
- country to juftity the Frenoh in feiring our veflels, re- J ei
minds us |of the ftoryjof two thieves in London. Ore lir
•f them fnatchcd off the Hat of an honest trad'efman ah
, and ran away with it; the tradesman was amazed ; the th
other came up and enquired the cause of hisfurprize,
why, fays he, that fellow has run away with ray hat, (V,
md lam so aftoniftied, I don't knew whartodo ; don't r
•you, fays the other, then I'll help myfelfto your IVi, ■ ?'
so the other thief ran off with the wig of the afteni/hed ftl
and plundered tradesman. w]
BY THIS DAY'S MAIL. Z
pr
BOSTON, O&obe 7. w<
PLEASING. pe
Last evening's eastern mail brought us the pleas- L<
ing information, that th# Newbury port committee a '
of health, finding the town removed from every an
symptom of the late malignant fever, had difcharg.
Ed themselves from their c«mmiffion. To their con. thi
-ratulatory address on that ocsafion, they subjoined to
I . t lift of the .'eaths in that town since S e
r-if. Zy trrrr-sfit $ by which ir appears, 38 have cal
he nr 'ign. i t fever, from July 3, to Odio
-'d 33 by other d forders. ly
NEW-i^RK, October it. to
a litter trf.n* merchant in Halifax, to nui
Knfrifttd ift rtvig «Hty. hir
"An ; ■ prefa hat just arrived from St. John's in
<• and) which fny», that g fail of tiiejinc H<
arriv- i at Bull', bay, next one
»© St. John's. an 4 have burnt and destroyed all that
.<ttlemt ... "j»id knows here they are bound next, clu
y — hope to; aj." ver
™• f Li; a don paper ef Aug. 23. of
On Snno>; - -m'r duel was fougbt in Hyde pre
Park, between Mr. Willtam Carpenter & Mr. John >!rr
' v f C ' ■^ m£ ricans. The meeting took place in «s ■
consequence of the affair, of America becoming the A*
fuhject of convtrfatton at the Virginia coffee-houfe har
on Friday I,ft. M r . Carpenter gave it as his opi- ]
m°n, that Mr. Giles, a member of thecovgrefs o' the
tne United States, was not so able a man as many tlu
supposed b.m to be, a»d that he did not eonfider cua
him as politically honest. At this observation Mr. bio,
P.ide took fire, and gave Mr. Carpenter the lie. line
A challenge ensued—the parties met on Sunday Let
morning al: half past five, in Hyde Park. The fe. and
conds used every means in their power to bring any
the affair to an amicabh adjutf me«r, but in vain, fott
Ihe dinance being measurers, they fired exactly at in e
the fame inflant, when Mr. Carpenter received hii ever
antagon.ft s ball tn the fide, which penetrated near- nutr
ly through his body ; and notwithstanding it wai Cor
immediately extrafled, he breathed his iaft yefler- 1
den' -8 ' I2 °' cloci ' at Riclj ardfon's, Covent Gar- refu
No ammofity whatever had previeufly fubfilled s^p
between them. Mr. Carpenter was about 21 year, T
old and was brought up in EfTex county, in the ceur
T)„ °n- ,r g ins father was a gentleman of ence
ire, in £.ngland. Mr. Pride is a native of of S
Amelia county, , n Virginia, 25 years of age. The
•«nJf- Tt have L been taken V 'he public offices to ma c
Wth,7 ° " P rmci P al ar >d his fecend, bat of tl
futhertQ without effect. ' himf
dav coro " er s ' n< l was to fit on the body this perfi
„ mini
-Dl> late arrivals at this port. Fran
Th t; Y IENN A, August 3. ever,
his a; j ° arc '' n ' a has notified, officially, by with
trew V ° r ' tn 1 €m P er " r i the terms of the spirit
the hmr r" 8 C<> "s with France ; declaring,'at of it
which n ' me * 'at contains no secret articles affei3
or the fi;,V to 'f l6 prejudice of the emperor, diftin
° r the ftatts the empire, * der t(
rh' v, V A 1"r my 10 Ital y Coßflfls - now, of 6S .
The battalions, 68 squadrons, and 18 companies of ar- I
1,1 - me " i making together 100,580 men. ]
vifh HESSE'DARMSTADT, August». j
>ox- The Auftriana in their retreat, left beliind them
mes marks, of their despair. In Franconii, the explo- ]
Hon offeveral powder magazines, which they Wauld ,
;.nt not fuffer tp fall mto the hand of the French, has
nay reduced three or four villages to ashes, and killed b ,
,er; canfideiable number of peifons 1
:hly At Wurtzbourg, «ne of their magazine, wa, g,V
"K a Vr'e P °P' T' WhCn 8 ° killcd -
by a greater number wounded. 8
arc Between Wurtzbourg and Bamberg, 40 vessels r
pit tich.y laden with the ornaments and treasure, of all (
«.c he convent, and churches in the deflorate, of Co- i,
i* M hand* of :
ver f T, his '"'"able capture is estimated at nine mjllion, [,
on or German florins.
nly P
b]y BRUXELLES, 46 Thermidor, Aug. 12
,e; , 4 mon S the ba ge a g= taken by tbe French troop, i
•eft at W urtzbourg wa, that of the imperial envoy at
in d the court of the pnncc-bifhop j all the plate be- r
t0 longing to the churches, and to the former prince- '
biftiop of Liege, and a great quantity of effect,
wh.ch the religious houf« in B e l g rum had sent into 1
Uermany a, a place of fafety.
- — tc
Th o LOND ? N ' Aa g«S <5.
Ihe Oporto merchants were received by Mr. n
• Put *,th great politenef,. He owned to them
veay frankly that though the public apprehensions, f r
with regard to the meditated attack of the French ID
U P. On f-!? nu ß ' h,d bcen magnified in the usual
in "ay, flill ,t was certain, that a request had been ta
£ ade .£r thc French fo r a fr « through the ar
he Spamfli tetrttory, unless an exorbitant demand of
money from Lifoon wa, complied with ; and that „
either they meditated such an attack, or, what was
more likely, wished to excite an alarm of it in this ~
country. He owned he had heard this, but he did /
not attach much credit to the infotmation. It was
a ruse de guerrt, not incanfiftent with the Ficnch
character; but even if thev /hould attempt to car.
v. r y their menace into execution, it was net the ope-
In ration of a day, and we were not without the means
i ce or effectual ftfiftance. It was a rumour, therefore
,A which he lamented to fer propagated with indultiy'
lft and which he wished to silence. It ought not to
« S "'r t i ,Cm a!arm ' f ° r 31 an >' rate ,hc 7 ml g ht have
perfect confidence in the attention and adivity of
government. Sufficient convoys would be appoint.
iis ed to bring home their property, and lie saw no ob
e- to permitting their wines to be bonded for a
e limitted time, until it (hould be appareat that the
m alarm was groundless ; but he wished them t 9 put
is theii;propofitioii on this fubjefl in writing.
e. Thus, amidst the pain, which he took to dispel
•I r f om L , the mindß of tlie gentlemen, the apprehension
_ ot th"., new attack upp 3 n our trade, he in fact con-'
:d fe ff d the of the danger by the concession
which he made with refpefl to the duties Our
port, will in all probability be opened for the leceipt
of wine, from Lisbon, without paying the duties
uatil they (hall come into consumption j and in the
present critical state of thc commerce of the world,
we fee no other means of securing to England the
permaneacy of our advantages, than that of making
f. London at least {if not all the principal haibuuisj
e a free part, not for this emergency, but forever— j
j and apian of this kind 1, in contemplation. 1
r . It was probably with this view that he desired
j. the mtrehants to put their idea, on this fubjed in
d to writing ; and accordingly the deputation met the
e general body of importer, yesterday, and commum
c catedtothem the observation, of the minister.
A proposal has bcen made for calling Dr. Frieif\
ly fiom America, as head profeffor of the univerfi-jl
ty of Leyden. One motive, besides doing jufticrf!
to his philofophica! abilities, i, the hope that X}
n number of manufailurcrs and other, attached tJ
him by friendfhip, and by a fiiaularity of opinioiß|
s in rcligiou, affairs, will be induced to follo\v him tJj 3
e Holland, and benefit thc country by their '
e August 8.
t The New-York paper, to the 27th of June ia
, clufive wert received this morning. They cantain
very little, except account, of the flourifhing state i
of the American commerce, and of the jßcreafing
; prosperity and wealth which the United States have
i I'enved from their system of neutrality—a system
1 as wife a, it i, humane, and as honourable to the
: American government a, it is conducive to she 7
■ happiness of the American people.
Letters from Leghorn of the 14th u!t. state,
the Fregch have still a gar.rifon of 2,200 men in 9
that city ; a former statement ol their having eva- n.
cuated it, is coiifequently untrue. The harbour is
blocked up by a squadron of fix British fiiipsofthc
line. Our navy, by all accounts, is spread from 1
Leghorn as far as Toulon along thc Italian coali,
and does not fuffer a vessel of any nation to enter
any of the Italian harbours. Thc French garri- 1
loft of Leghorn is making preparations of defence,
in cafe the Englilh (hould bombard that port, an
event highly probable, and to aid iB which a great Di
number of gun-bpats arc fitting out in the iUandof Dc
Corsica. Dc
The motive assigned by the French direflory for _
refufing to receive M. de Rchaufen, as Sevvdiih
charge d'affaires, wa,, that they ~-onfidcred him as Do
a spy of the court of Peter/burgh. ■ Ra
The reiterated remonftranaes of the Swedifli '^ r
court in favor of this gentleman, prove the infiu-
ence which the court of Russia has gained over that p 0
of bweden, by some late political arrangement,. Do
The duKt regent is tow placed in a strange dilem- iQ
ma on tHis fubjefi. If he yields ts the demands ®' -
of the dire&ory, he is in danger of committing
himfelf- with Rufiia ; and if on the other hand, he
persists in refufing to appoint any other Swedish 0,3
minister than M. de Rehaufen, a rupture with
France seems unavoidable. It would appear, how
ever, that the directory does not wifii to quarrel OI
with Sweden ; as, in its usual (tile, and in the true E? KS
spirit of French rebellion, it blends with the recal of
of it, minister at Stockholm, the profeflion of its c
affeiSion for the Sw«di(h nation, which it carefully urt
diftingui(he, from the Swedish governpnent, in or
der to render the latter odious aud suspicious to th» jof
f9B | people. It ; s however worthy of notice, that
far- I Sweden, which was thefirft European Hate to ac
knowledge the power of the French republicans,
u now likely to feel the venon of the ferpetit (he has
feftered.
hem There has been another diffurbance at Lugo, in
: P°" I,a] y- The inhabitants of this town, which is ii*
®"d the dotchy of Ferrara, had attacked a body of 60
> as French dragoons, and killed sos them. General
cd 6 Angcrrau advanced with a body of .troops, on
hearing this intelligence, and dispersed the inflir
giv- gents by a fsw discharges of cannon loaded with
arid grape thot.
There are now at "Havre, and other French
e » ports tn the channel, a number of Americans,
'a> (many of whom have been lately in this coantry,
°* in the chara&er ©f merchants) fitting ot»t small
*at row-boat privateers, to interrupt our unarmetkoaft
eri. These boats come out ih the evening, run
'on* immediately over to this shore, and watch their op
portunity to hoard such vessels as they think they
can t*ke. If they meet with Britifti cruizers, or
' armed, vessels, they pass for Englishmen or fifher
°P S men.
'fa 3 ' Dr. Schiller, the editor of the Imperial Frahk- a .
ice i - ? a " t,c > f lß ' received orders from the French
~ j cl * ,l2en Simon, fccretary of legation of Caffel, to
" , ave on f future the words, " with the mod gra
-0 cious privilege of his majesty the emperor," an the
top of the journal, and to substitute, V by permif-
Gon of the generals of the Freneh republic." The
other Frankfort papers are to follow the fame in
nr* ftruftions.
em The populace of Vienna have become vociferous
' h P face 5 tn.y lately surrounded the house of ba
1C , ron Fhtigot, and cried out for the speedy return of p
" a that bit fling ; but were soon dispersed by the mili- c
■®" tary, who, when employed to- fapprefs a jiot, are a
ln ® armed only with dubs.
Louis XVIII is arrived at Dresden, and in a
way of perfedt recovery front his late attack. c
ras a
his Mjpa,,,^
L,ST "f P *'" S a " d Bla * ks '» the Wa/bington
* Lottery No. a.
c " sSih Diy's Drawing, Oft. 1.
ar - Ai. Oil,. No. Doh. n,. DiU. AV D.t,
3C * *52 ' 3 VI B ® s s4 378 a?
ins 7«» 8 4 « is 3s s
re, ,f 7 ? " '4°34 437 383,4 10
„ '*>* S*S 580
J' 6 * B f4 m 74 , N
Ik 3 ,O « " V * 73 ' 77' 10 F
ive 969 10 i, 5 a 5 6 » 5 ,8,06 6 F
of ,6 ;' 4 w
u- "e 1,1 0 29294 " 473
i' 4 3°5 «• sßq r
lb " , 797 ft 7 '4 4°»6t ~
ra 3373 878 20 ,o 4 8C 0 »c T
* ,«51: 6 " ®
300 1817© lo y x2 to 414Q0
ut 480 10 r h 9 839 & » c
n .» * S4# € y J
)d 871 10 377 «° 96a 42 , 49 10
959 20 ao©Bi 31( , 48 H
an 5=47 434 '» 543
qgV ?£? 33 ' 7 t 43156 H
3tl n 57 5 2 9 '• n
ur A V 808 l» 566 10 B '
762 10 to 340 * - X
P« 9*4 888 ,0 677 45495
cs 7 'l* 10 »" /J 603 A*
|, 388 20 916 g fc3 6 3 , M
d V 6 a ' 3 '3 »« iS*3° 498 , V,
£ " c<
ig a 3> 704 36048 844 n
t) 10 *S a6 S 509 48348' .0 V'
4 1 545 73 1 10 388 to Li
10150 io 565 37098 10 404
, S &1 "4 49574 .0
rd 6io 54347 zo „ 5 o 75 „ t9
n. tl 6 ® 7 '5496 3 8 5 77* B '
747 *0 499 co
ie s°j t6o 9 6 10 Sis
£7ih Day's Drawing— Monday, Oftobtr 3.
K - A7e - D °!'- N »- D*h- Nc. Dd*. No. Sol,. Sc
1-1 111 t'l* * 4 ° 5%36 io
1 t «>»*s 356 37004
.■all •»« 4»» 909 , 2q
»5'3 *5 "3'9 »8» ,83 10
»°7' 961 56413 333
<11 09a ic is, 39 . 28529 I 9 38213 Sic
"I 9'5 13633 to? yg
<J 3 2 4® 16'5» 783 '710 io
"■ 4222 10 3 8 3 29*81 ,83 '
444 482 18 153 998 thi
®97 •10 SQ'-'35 10 A 1
.. 554 .0 8o g 3002s S9^f
n 817 *6 160 i4 >• 187 4 0 59 0
i'3 l 10 >59 760 4l « 7 o anc
, |97 »o 238 Jion 42844 he.
1 BSB io f 9 75 2 973 the
c 868 10 694 32336 10 43065 , •
„ 94J 18245 »° 54a 098 P h '
- 99 64> 675 ,6a 10 ]
787 >0 6jo 10 719 Be 6ie bev
e 7<>49 10 >48 ,0 44600 <
„4®4 *0234 77' i® 76S . '
8695 10 }S 5 , 3J3J5 79g in t
> 908 22225 3479' '• 47408 10 it,
„ 9®99 »4°«6 33842 10 799 t j, r ,
- '" 1 111 wit!
! Just landing,
5 SouthJlreet-'wiarf, from an board the /lip Sedr- ,u
( hy, Captain Hodgt, from St. Peterjburg,
r The following Goods : SII
Ruftia Sail Duck, firft quality. ?' ae
' Do. Sheeting do.
1 Do. Diaper..
Do. Huckaback.
f Do. Crash. a
Do. Mould Candles, 4, j and 6, to the lb. of the ,iJ
Englilh size.
Do. White Candle Tallow. =
1 Do- White Sosp in small boxes.
Do. Cordage of fine "yarn.
Ravens Duck. O
lfinglafs, lft and 2nd fort. brcn
Horse Hair uncurkd. a del
Russia Bar Iron. A li
Do. Hoop Iron. be a
Do. Nail Rods. Q
Xjb Tons Oakum and Junk.
St. Petersburg Clean Hemp;
For Sale by
Philips, Cranioad, Sc Co. Tt
O(Sober is. {he
- < - Nj) _ ,
A Quarterly Meeting , ot^;
OF the.;Soeieiy for-the itiftitution and Support of ck
FIRST-DAY or SUNDAY SCHOOLS in tfcc City
of Philadelphia and the Diftrifls of Southwark and
the Nortkpfn Liberties, will be held at John Ely's
School-Roorfl, in Cherry-street, betwee* Third and are ai
Fourth-streets, This Evening, at 7 o'clock. Prp r
GEOKGS WILLIAMS, Sec'ry. warr
loth mo. lath, 1796. 04
5<
1
( ELECTION.
' is the itaie ot the votes for iff*
• ans > undernamed candidates at the cl«»fe of the PuU La
tnas night in this city.
Governor^
m Thomas Mifflin.
,s 1" Gongrefs,
:60 John Swaawicki j <ol
icral Edward Tilghman,
|r,?" Majority for J. S'wanwkJt, 70
AjJimUj*
"Wi' George Latimer,
Lawrence Seckel, I^4
inch Ja-eb Hiltzheimer, 1714
ans, Robert Wafa,
try. Francis ,G jrney, I; . 4
John btcmraetz,
'' Matthew Law'ler, i o 6©
run Benjamin Say, UoI
op- irracTWaelj So
hey Fergufon M'Uvarhej )o^o
or Jacob Lawerfwyltr, IJo ,
lcr . The firft fix arc chefeti.
The county returns were not complete!! ; tmt jfc
hk- a PP car * that Blair M'Clknacha.n is elefled for
nch Congress,
to 1111— '
r ra- ,
' t j le GAZETTE er THE UNITED ST/tTff MARINE LIST.
nif- '
rhe - PElt-ADELP 111 4 t O&ober 1%.
ARRIVED. n av ,
Ship Louisa, Bell, Lifcon s g
»us Delaware, Cooper, Liverpool 45
a Rebccca, Hughes, London 84.
Brig Mercury, Davidfon, do. j s
1|1 " Schr. Enterprize, Anderfon, Virginia 17
are Sloop Lively, Bunker, Rhode-I£Jand 4
1 a The following veffch arc behno.
Ship New-Jersey, Hefs, Liverpool
■* Suflex, Atkjns, do.
Roba & Betsey, NimnjOj Briftsl ca davs,
to * Liberty, ——Ireland
Brig Anthony, Miller, . Bordeaux
Faithful, Dickfou, An^liilla.
* •
Frtm Lloyd's Lift Aug, 2.
1 GraTEShnD, July XI.
ARRIVED. 73
I N^ c y.F r anklin, Feterfbcry
, Frtendfhip, Hunt, TeterO>ur f »-
Merchant, Bates, B 0 tto»
p , failed for
Galen, Eddy, Boflo(i
Triumph, Hazard, New-Yorfc
Falmouth, July 3s.
» Cbriftiana, Hafttel, 'vtrgiuit
Liverpool, arrivedfrom
H °P C « Calia g haD i Virginia
H I' Mll arrivedf'crjf
Hannah. NQHer, WifcafTet
Betsey, Marquis, Vircfoia
Two Sifters, d o
Vtne, Green y, Peterflw*
Convert, Miller» Newfoundland
P Cad ' X - , r „ arrived fro*.
Commerce, Tallman, New-Yortt
Levant, ,
„ . . t New-Yoek, Oaober ie,
Brig Ann, Jones, Cur.-acoa ?7
Abigail, Scott, Cape-Francois
Eunice. Jamaica _
51. v Y T Dt : aggarti d - a
Schr. Federal, Kinn,
Regulator, Brown, do
fff H " b . b / rd ' Anguilla 2 C
Indulby, Baldwin, Cade-Francoi, 2Z
Vulpus, Smith, Port-au-Prince %S
Sloop Dblphin, Trueaian, Guadaloupe JL
r Ifr ku"' Gunaives —
Capt. Webb, of the Cleopatra, who arrived at
th.s port on Sunday, left Bourdeaux on the 10th
August, and Rochelle or the jfith,
Capt. Webb, left (hip Westerly, of
and from New-York, who was t. fail for Italy with,
her cargo of flour, not being able t Q get any price
theie j two other American vessels from Fhilaiel
phia, were in the lame predicament.
fcound ft home ArUdnC> ° f New * York ' in tbe "vcr
in f(f°R 3 fr!ga . te '' ÜBder Stench colours
n the Bay of B.icay Aug. 3 t, 1„. 4A 2J) l ong #
r», 23, who fuffered him to pass, after forn*
threat, Wa, boarded bv the Asia Britilh 74.
- with the new Governor of Bermuda on board, on
cS $ir u 4 °' 4 '' long - 3h 10.
-,K Y f Wl . lh '» w , ho arriv ed here last Sunday, in
A Lifton .'"forms, That
Snp t tbere, Aug. 10, a very hot PRES.
SING of men, for the naval and land forces took
piacc*
iARNEYfc H fgre -' a' "' e Ab, ' Sa:i ' th "
T'ft fj! " Cd «Cape Francois m
a most wretched filuatton, having been difmalled i*
■ a late gale of wind. (^ aj )
A Young Woman
OF unexceptionable charadiei", and who has hf-1
brought up genteely, would be willing to en K 2 ?n'
a decent family asohambermaid, and assist in fewfnf
sjar«
0&. 1%.
Washington Lottery.
* Twenty-seventh days' drawirm- „ J
M !1 h T" r ' No " 4 > are r «"ved at the olfe
N B 4 'I feC ' ' Wher f tickets ma y b = examined,
N. B. Information given Where tickets in all the oti c •
lotteries may be procured.
Qfiober 1796. df
Waflhington Lottery.
The twenty-sixth and twenty-fovemh dav,
are arrived at the office Ne. , 47l Chtfnut-ftrWt.
warrantcd^nslrawn' 6 i ' tt " y £,Chin « fd
OA. 7. , „
fnSt.vi.-iFor Sale,
ATnree-ftory BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut
ftrcet, between Front and Second ftrset3, 'in which Hayi
Mcffrs. James Calbraith & Co. have for many years (and
Bow do) carried on business. \ g C]
Poffcffion will be given in one month, er sooner.
For terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or T>R
HECTOR CALBRAITH. j)
April 41. 5_ Rt
A Manufactory FOR SALE.
A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufadory, situate [R
in a convenient part of the city ; the worki almost new,
•On an entirely original conftruftion, and built of the bell
and may be set to work itr.mediately. Persons
whowifhto purchase, are to apply No. 273»
South Second Street. 1 ?
September 13. cn
Brokcrs Office, and
COMMISSION STORE.
No. 6j South Third street.opposite the national new Bank.
SAMUEL M FR AUNCES and JOHN VAN REED, JL
have entered into co-partneHhip, under the firm of ceilt
FRAUNCES & VAN REED, in the business of Brokers, ;
Conveyancers and Commission merchants. They buy and j
fell on commifHon every species of stock, notes of hand,
bills of exchange, houses and lands, &c.
Money procured'on deposits, &c. &c. all kinds c'
■Writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatness and 9-
dispatch ; accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the 20
most correit manner. Constant attendance will be given. 100
They folidit a (hare of the public favor ; they are deter
mined to endeavoUr to deserve it.
N. B. The utmost secrecy observed. 133
SAAfUEL M. FR AUNCES, 401
john vaN REED.
Philad. Apguft 17, 1796. m&wtf 63J
Valuable Real Estate,
Forfale at Auflion by Cafptr Thiell, of Hamburg,
late the property of Jarties and William Kinnear. t0 r
For sale by public auction, on the 9th day of November ; n t
next ensuing, at the sign of Gen. Wood s in t
tavern, borough of Reading, Berks county, the follow- ]
ing real estate, viz. con
j\ TRACT of land containing 46J acres with m 2
No. I. allowance for roads, called the Purchase, s ou
fiuated in Brunfwick township, Berks county, patented, e ts
18th o' Jan. J 788 This trail, of which about ij acres ]
are clcared, is of good foil, situated on the Tomatfua, or
Little Schuylkill, well watered and timbered, on which is
eretted a good log dwelling house and liable.
No. 2. A trail of unimpfoved Und, containing 484 *-
ires, with allowance, &c. called Hopewell, patented 28th —
06tober, 1790, situated in Brunfwick townfiiip, Berks
eoanty, foil good. _
No. 3. A trad of unimproved land, containing 376 a- IJ
cres with aflowance, &c. called Hillfburg, patented »Bth
o(stobcr 17.50, situation, &c. as N0,2. TJ
No, 4. A trait efunimproved land, containing 388 a- cit
cres, with allowance, &c. patented 28th of October, 1786,
Jrtuation, &c asNo. a and 3. da
No. J. A trad of land, containing t6B acres, and J7 toi
perches, with allowance, &c. situated in Brunfwick town- mi
Ihip, Berks County, on Tomagua, or little Schuylkill, 5 an
miles above the town »f Hamburg, on which is erected a »
well finifhed two story squared log dwelling house, 22 of
feet by 3J, within the distance of 100 pcrcheifrem a forge, wi
with the advantage of a ferry and public house; these ad
vantages render this trail very valuable. th
No 16. A town lot in Hamburg, enclosed with a post as
and rail, or board fence, containing in front, 60 feet, and
in depth 18® feet, fubjeit to a ground rent of 7/6 per an- pi
num.
No 17> A town lot in Hamburg, enclosed as no r6, to ac
which it adjoins, being of the fame dimensions, and fubjeil h<
to the fame ground rent,on which is ereiied a log liable, re
16 by 18 feet at
No. 18. A town lot in Hamburg, adjoining to No. 17,
x corner lot, fronting on Main and Schuylkill flreets, di- tl
mmfions the fame as No. J6 and above defcribsd, Tub- rt
jeit to ICfo per annum ground rent. On this lot is er
ecSed a large 2 story dweSing house, 4j feet fr~nt on Main
flreet, by 34 feet in-depth on Schuylkill street, pleasantly la
and advantageously situated for a store. h
N. B. The above described three town lots will be fold fe
(eparately or together, as may bell suit the purch fers. ii
Conditions ol sale—One third of 1 the purchase money
to be paid to the subscribers, or cither of them in Philadel- -
phia, at or before the expiration of one month from the
day of sale, when a deed of conveyance will be executed ;
the refidilb payable in 2 equal payments, at 6 and 12 months
with imereft,the payment whereof to be secured by mort- -
gage on the premises. 0
James Henderfov, ~j Affi-nees to P
Frederick Montmollin, I the estate of 5
Thomas Rogers, f James & Wm. s
Jtfeph D. Drinker, J Kinnear. (
September 26. m & th. 1
Treasury Department,
September 28, 1796. <
NOTICE is hereby given, that proposals will hi re- ■
ceived at the office of the Secretary ps the Treasury 1
until the expiration of the firft <Vy of March next en- I 1
suing, for the supply of all rations which may he required. '
for thb use of the United States, from the firft, day of '
June, 1797, to the thirty-firll day of May, 1798, both 1
days inc'.ufive, at the places and within the diftriils here- '
after mentioned, vii. At Ofwego; at Niagara; at '
Pjcfque lfle; at Sanduiky Lake, and on Sandufky
River; at Detroit; at Michilimackinac; at Fort-Frank
lin; at Pittsburgh ; at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hamihon ;
at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-JefTerfon ; at Grenville,; at
Picque Town and Loramies Store; at Fort Adams; at
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance ; at any place below Fort
Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Eric; at Fort
Steuben ; at FortMaflac ; at any place from Fort Maffac
to the south boundary of the United States oil the river
Mifiifippi ; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiatanon.
If supplies (hall be required lor any posts or places not
mentioned in this notice, all such supplies shall be fur
nilhed at prices proportioned to those to'be paid at she
palls before recited, eras may be hr reafter agreed on
between the United States and the COntraitor.
The rations to be supplied are to cor.fift of the fol
lowing articles, viz.
One pound two ounces of bread or flour.
One pound two ounccs of beef, or fourteen ounces of
pork or bacon.
Half a gill of rum, brandy or whilkey.
One quart .md half a pint of fait."}
Two quarts of Vinegar, ( , , ,
Two pounds of Soap, ( P cr hund " d rat!ollt
One pound of Candles, J
The rations arc to be ftirnilbed in such quantities, as that
there shall at all times during the said term, Be fufiicient
for the consumption of the troops at Michilimackinac, De
troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, for the term of fix months in
advance, and at each of the other posts, for the term of
at least three months in advance, ill good and wholesome
provisions, if the fame shall be required. It is to be un
tlerftood, that the Contractor is to beat theexp»nce and
risk of iffiiirgthe supplies to the troops at each post, and
that all loflcs fnftained by the depredations of an enemy, or
by means of the troops of the United States, shall be p<(id
for at the price, of the articles captured or destroyed, oa
the depositions of two or more persons of creditable cha
racters, and the certificate of a commiffioncd officer, as-
Cf mining the cireumftar.ces of the loss, and the amount
»f th.; ai tides for whkh compensation fball be claimed.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secret ary of the Treasury.
JOHN MILLER, fun. & Go.
No. 3, CHESNUT STREET,
1 Haye Imported in the late vessels frum Europe, &c. TT'Nt
1 AND HAVE lOR SALE, JL f (
A general assortment of GOODS, suitable to the season— Wilfoi
Amongst which are, Alf
BROAD and narrow CLOTHS, Enc]
Plain and twill'd COATINGS, States
Rbfe striped amd point BLANKETS, Sep
FLAN N ELS and B A.ISE6,
HATS assorted in cases,
e IRISH LINENS, SGI
[J INDIA GOODS, generally,
A Consigned Invoice of IRONMONGERY,
, CompriSng a capital assortment to open a store inc ,"
f ' ding Thirty Calks of NAILS. This invoice will be fold A
entire on very advantageous terms. dwe
September 20.
Lottery
k. T7OR raising Githoufitul fix hundred and sixty-seven
3, r dollars and fifty .cents, by a deduction of fifteen per
of cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a prize. viz
•s, I -Prize of 5009 dollars is dollars 500&
id I 1000 1000
d, t job J°°
5 200 lOCO
c' id roo 1000
id 99 jo <95°
he 400 i-J Jooo 1 j
in. 2000 . 10 L 10,000 i^,
:r- 5 Last drawn numbers of rooo dollars each, JOOO
16,
1334 Prizes. 44,4J0
40! 8 Blanks.
— • -50,
63 Jo Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44,45° —
By order of the Diredtors of the Society for eftabliih- j v j i
ing Ufeful Manufafiures, the fuperintendauts of the Pat- Tick
erfon Lottery have requifted the Managers to offer the t ; c k e
& r Foregoing Saheme to the public, and have dire&ed them.
to refund the money to those persons who have purchased or
' er in the former Lottery, or eichange the tickets for tickets iay t
d's in this Lottery. T1
w_ rhe lottery ha* a&ually commenced drawing, and will vatc
continue until finiffied. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes -j* wc
ith ma y fee seen at the office ot William Blackburn, No. 64 f r on
south Second street, who will give information whire tick- j t j s]
ed, ets may be procured. as f 0
res Dated this 17th day of June, 1796. t j, en
or' J. N- GUMMING, 7 ther
'■s JACOB R. HARDENBERG, > Managers. An
JONATHAN RHEA, ) the
*- dtfeo w ;il
Sth " ~ ~
rk% Samuel Rfchardet, t
ia- n ESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
Bth -tv Merchants, that lie has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEE HOUSE in the
5a- city of Philaieljhia:
86, The Subscription Room will be furnilhed with all the
daily papers publilhed in Philadelphia, New-York, Bof
-57 ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com-
<rn- mercial cities of Europe—They will be regularly filed
1,5 and none permitted to be taken away on any account,
da' Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, IceCreams, and a variety
22 of French Liquors; together with the ufiial refrelhments,
rge, will at all times be procured at the bar. .
ad- Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the most
post approved Malt Liquors from London and other breweries,
and The Larder will be supplied with the prime and earliest
an- produ&ions of the Season. » . „
Large and fmali Parties, or single Gentlemen, may be > c
6, to accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
>jeift hours njoft convtnient to themselves—a cold Collation is
ible, regularly kept for conveniency, the Billof Fare to be had av
at the bar. "
. 17, The Lodging Rooms will be completely furniflied, and J,
, di- theutmoft attention paid to cleanliness, and every other *
Tub- requilite.
9 er- Si« Dci Ricuardit will behappy to receive, and <
dam ciecute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at J"
intly large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfelf that nothing on his part ftiall be wanting to pre
sold serve that patronage with which he has been so diftinguifh
ingTy honored.
oney Philadelphia, April 19. mwf
idel- — — ~ 1
ithe Treasury of the 'United States.
inths XTOTICE is hereby given to all persons who are or *
IN may be Creditors of the United States, for any sums
n ° r " of the Funded Debt, or Stock, bearing a firefent interefi of fix .
per centum per annum.
test# ,11, That pursuant to an AA of Ctmgrefs passed on the |
e of 28th day of April, 1796, intitledan a& in addition to an tjj.
Wm. aft, intituled " An aft making further proviCon for the |
support of public cr«dit, and for the redemption •£ the S
public debt," the faiddebt or stock willbe reimburltd and!
paid in manner following, to wit. " First, by dividends'
" to be made on the last days of March, June and Septemr
" ber for the present year-, and from the year one thousand f r
« seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year one thou-
Se re- " sand eight hundred & eighteen inclufive,at the rate of —
:afury " one and one half per centum upon the original capital,
st en- ' " Secondly, by dividends to be made on the last day of r
[uired. « December for the present year, and from the year one ■
ay of « thousand seven hundred and nincty-feven, to the year m
both " tine thousand eight hundred and seventeen inclusive, at C]
here- " the rate of three and one half per centum upon the ori- a j
1; at " ginal capital; and by a dividend to be ma ie on the last f e
dofky " day of December, in the year one thousand eight hun
rank- " dred and eighteen, of such sum, as will be then ade
ihon ; " quate, according to the contract, for the final redemp
e.; at " tion of the said stock."
is; at ad. All diftindion between payments on account of
r Fort Intcreft and Principal being thus abelifhed by the eftablifh
t Fort ment of the permanent rule of reimbursement abovt de- ,
klaffac scribed, it has become necessary to vary accsrdingly the .
river powers of attorney for receiving dividends'; the public 11
creditors will therefore observe that the following ferm 11
es not is eftabiilhedfor all powers of attorney which may be S
>e fur- granted after the due promulgation ot this notice, viz. "
at the KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that y
ed on / of
do make, conjiitute and appoint
he sol- of my true arxdiatvful At-
torney, forme, and in my name, to receive the dividends n huh are, .
or Jhall he payable according to law, on the (here dcfcribing the t
nces of stock) fianitng in my name in the hooU of (here describing the ,
books of the Treasury or the Commiflioncr of Loans,
where the flock is Credited) from (here insert the com
mencement and expiration of tkne for which the power of
rations attorney is to continue) with power also- an attorney or attor
nits under bim,for that purpose to make aridfubflitute, and to do all
lawful ails requifitefor effeSling theprmifes, hereby ratifying and
as that confirming all that my said Attorney or bisfuhflitute Jhall lawful
ifiicient ly do, by virtue hereof. f
ac, Dc- In Witness hereof, I Lave hereunto set my Hand and Seal tie
ir.thu in day of »* the \ear |
"rm of Sealed and Delivered c
slefome in preface tf, ]
be un- BE IT KNOWN, that on the day of I
nee and efore meperfonally tame
ift, and within named and acknowledged the above letter of attorney to be 1
emy, or bit aSi and deed.
be paid In teflimony whereof I have hereunto set my Han i and affix
yed, on ed Seal the day and year lajt afor^aid.
ble cba- Given under my Hand at Philadelphia, this twen
-scer, as- tieth day of July 1796, pursuant to directions
amoust freia the Secretary of the Treasury.
ned. SAIWUEL MEREDITH,
Treafrsr of the United States.
»fury. July 1;,. w 'J st I J.
For Sale,
A Complete Font of Brevier,
T7Ntirely new, and yet unopened. The weight of t is
ili font is about 319 lb. It is from the Foundsry of
Wilson & Sons.Glafgow.afid will be foldatcoft & charges.
Also for Sale, a pair of Super Royal Chafes
Enquire at the Office of the Gazette of the United flat
States, 119 Chefnut-ftreet. , e
September n- dtf - fc J|
I City cf Waihington. Pr -
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No.II, J
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT 0 t THE
FEDERAL CITY.
, A magnificent ) 20,000 dollars, & > (0,430 5 '
dwelling-house, 5 cash 30,000, are y \
l ditto Ij.ooo & cast 95,000 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 & cast 15,000 30,000 bra
1 ditto 10,000 & cash 10,000 20,000
1 ditto 5,000 & ca!h 5,000 10,000 £la j
I ditto 5,000 & cash s*ooo 10,000 u £
I cash prize of 10,000 n (
1 do. 5,000 each, are '•» 10,000 „ ]
10 do. 1,600 - - 10,000
ao do. 500 - - 10,000 I
00 do. 100 - - 10,000 gu
900 do. 5° " 10,000 in{
4CO do. 95 - I0 ' 000 the
1,000 do. 20 1 * 10,000 tin
15,000 do. 10 • " '* IJO.Ooo
16,739 Prizes.
33,461 Blanks. p 0
•50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, g"
N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity of J°
Tickets.the prize of 40,000 dollars <vill be the last drawn
ticket, and the 30,ooothe last bilt one : £;
And approved notes, securing payment in either money
1 or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be received for _
' any number not less than 30 tickets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of the pri
' vate buildings to be ere&ed' in the City of Waihington—-
! Two beautiful designs are already feleded lor the entire _
1 fronts on two of the public squares; from these prawings
' it is proposed to erect two centre and four corner buildings,
as soon as possible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
them, when compter, to the fortunate adventurers, in —
the mannerdefcribcd in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery.
• A nett deduction of five per cent, will be made to defray
the necessary ehpenfes of printing, &c. and the surplus a
will be made a port of the fund intended for the National {0
Uaiverfity, to be ereded within the city of Waihington.
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
fold off.—The money prizes will bepayablein thirty days
. after it is finiihad ; and any prizes for which fortunate -
numbers are not produced within twelve months after the
C drawing is clofrd, are to be considered as given towards
the fund for the University ; it being determined to fettle
e the whole bufiriefs in a year from the ending of the draw,
ing. and to take up the bonds given as security.
j The real securities given for the payhient of the Prizes,
are held by the Prcfident and two Direflors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a-
mount ol the lottery.
'' The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of
1 the late Commiflioners aflifted in the management of the
Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake thisarduous talk
a second time on behalf of the public ; a fufficießt num
a ber of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
friends to a National University and the other federal ob
r je&s may continue to favor the design.
By accounts received from the different parts of the
j s Continent as well as from Europe, whore the tickets
ld have been sent for sale, the public are assured that the n
drawing will speedily commennc, and that the care and
|( j caution unavoidably necessary to insure a fafe disposal of
„ the tickets, has rendered the liiort fufpeofion indispensable.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
id •§• Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; o
at James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter Gilman, Boflon
e8 of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells
e _ Cooper's Ferry. eo
Watson's Answer to Gibbon.
just RECEIVED,
And far lale by J. ORMROD, No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet, .
or Apology for Christianity,
" s | -In a fir it! of Letters, addressed to
Edward Gibbon, Esq.
. RAutfeor of the History of the Decline and Fall of the j
Roman Empire:
™ »By R. WATSON, d. d. t. r. s. Bishop of Landaff. !
(Price 75 cents bound.)
nd| Watson's Answer to Paine,
ids To be had at the fame place.
Mr The enemies of Religion are awake ! let not her
nd friends Jleep.
Sept. I. mw&ftf
as " NOTICE.
°f npHE S«!ifcriber, having been reduced in his circum
>ne ' JL stances, by sundry misfortunes, and being thereby
ear nuable to fatisfy his just debts, hereby give* notice to his
Creditors and to all pcrfons concerned, that he intends to
sr '" apply to the General Assembly of Maryland at their next
session to be held on the firft Monday of November neat.
un ~ for the benefit of an a<A of insolvency.
■*- WILLIAM EDMONDSON
n P" Eatton, ift of the qth month, 1796. xawtiftMN
° f To be fold,
de» A PLANTATION, in thetown of Woodbury, coun
tllc JTV ty of Glouceftcr, and state of New-Jersey, contain
blic ' n g about one hundred and fifty acres ; a suitable propor
srm t ' on °' which is woodland and improved meadow. A
be S 1 * 11 P art arable land is in a high state of cultiva
-2 tion, and very, natural to the production of Red Clover.
! On said plantation there is a genteel two-story brick house,
" with four rooms on a floor, and a good dry cellar under
the whole; together with a barn, corn-cribs and carriage
haufe. The garden is large, *nd contains a good collec
tion of the b«ft kinds of grafted and inoculated fruit trees;
the orchard consists of about three hundred grafted apple
' trees. Any person inclined to purchase said premiles, may
be informed of the terms by applying to
o° B : ANDREW HUNTER.
:r of J u 'y *9 •!
ttor- ~~ " ~ '
o all To BE bOLD,
'and jfo A 7 o. iaß, North Second-Street, and by federal oj
V J the Apothecaries in this City.
of the right to remove pains and inflamma
» toe X t j ons frpm the human bady, as secured to Dr. ELISH A
PERKINS, by patent, with instruments and directions ne
cessary for the pra&ice. This mode of treatment is particu
larly ufeful in relieving pains in the head, face, teeth, breast,
fide, stomach, back, rheumatisms, recent gfints, &c. &c.
Notwithstanding the utility of this practice, it is not pre
to le fumed but there are cases in which this and every othei
remedy may sometimes fail.
affin- June 1, law
wen . To be disposed of,
aions HT'HE time of a healthy NEGRO WOMAN, wbo
J- has between four and five years to fcrvs: She
can be recommended for her sobriety and hor.efty. For
/«. particular* enquire at N». i 3», Chefnut-ftreet.
J. August 2- wScltf
Mr. FRANXIS,
[Of the New Theatre)
TAKES this opportunity of returning thanks to Lis
scholars and to the public. Mr. Francis intends,
on his return from Maryland, to open a public aca
demy for dancing, upon a plan entirely new. He
flatters himfelf that his attention to his piipils hi
therto renders any promises of conducting his future
schemes on the molt liberal an<J flrifteft terms, of pro
priety* totally unneceflary.
N. B. Private tuition as ufilal.
June 3
No. 154.
DiJiriSl of Pennfylv.min, to wit :
r T) E it rememuered tha; on the 26th dayofSep
) seal >1) tember.in the 1 wenty-firft year of the lnd'--
J pendence of the United States ot America, A
braham' Bradley, junior ef the said DiftriA, hath deposited
in this office, the title of a Map, the right whereul,
claims as author in the words following to wit,
•' Map of the United States exhibiting the Stuationv
" connections & diftarices of the PoO>Offices, Stage-roads,
" Counties, Ports of Entry and Delivery lor Foreign vef
" lcls, and the principal rivers,
«' By ABRAHAM BRADLEY, jun."
In conformity to the A A of the Congress of the United
States intituled « An ait for the encouragement of learn;
ing by securing the copies of maps, charts, and hooks to
the authors and proprietors of such copies during tht
times therein mentioned."'
Samuel Caldwell, Clerk, f
Dijlritl of Pennsylvania.
The above map may be had of the author at the General
Foil-Office, next door to theWar-Qffice in Fifth-Street,
and at his hottfe, No. 78, corner of Crown Street and
Brewers Alley between 4th and sth, and Vine and Cal
lowhill Sreets. Prices from 3Jto 5 pilars each, accord
ing to the manner in which they are finilhed. The pre*
grefs (or arrivals and departures) of the Mail on the Main
Line may be had separate for ceents.
Oft. 3. iaw6w.
WANTED,
An APPRENTICE to'the Prirting Bujinefs.
Enquire atthis Office. Aug. 9
Wafhmgton Canal Lottery, *
NO. Iv .
WHERE ASthe' State of Maryland has anthorifed
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
I a Canal through the City of Walhingtoii, from th Po ;
tomacto theEaftern Branch Harbour.
The following is he SCHEME of No. I.
Viz -I Prize of »0,000 dollars, 40,000
! j ditto 10,000 to,ooo
; ' 7 laddrawn")
Tickets, each J "
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,000
t 10 ditto 100 a,OOO
55 ditto 50 4,750
5750 ditto 14 69,008
To be raised for the Canal, 46,459
, jBSO Prizes, _ if 5,000
' 11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.!
|r "
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
,e 'tr The "Commissioners hava taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid aft for the punctual payment of
the prizes.
The drawing of tins Lottery will commence, without
ts delay, as soon as thp Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
|( j Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after tht
{■ drawing is finilhed, lb all be considered as relinquished for
the benefit of the Caual, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed) NOTLEY YOUNG,
. DANIEL CARR OLL, of D»
. LEW'IS DEBLOIS,
ls Gr.OROE WALKER,
:WM. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY,
City of Waflnngtoo, Feb. 11. §
•-i, At a special meeting of the Board of Di~< ; ;
redors for ejlabli/hing ufeful Manufactures, holden
at Paterfon, July 8, 1796,
RESOLVED, That a special of tire Stock
holders of the Society be 'on the firlt Monday,
being the third ./ay of a*. Paterfon, by tea
~ of the clock of the fame i then arid there to take
into consideration the propriety of dissolving the said
corporation, agreeably to the law m iuch oalc i-nade and
provided—and the Stockholders are iarneftly requested
to attend the said meeting in person or by proxy.
ler Augult 47. dt3®thO
FOR SALE.
A PLANTATION,
\ BOUT 12 miles from this Citv, fixate in Abing
b y jTX ton Tbwnfhip, containing
70 awes, a new stone house, two stories high, 2 rooms 00a
to floor, fire places in cach, a stone kitchen and iNne spring
cxt bouse, over an excellent fpiiog of water, a barn> stables,
st. fneds, barracks, &c. A large apple orchard, and a vatictyof
other fruit, about 12 acres of good meadow well watered*
f and wood fufficient for fire, and fencing the place. PofTcm
on may be had the ift of April next. Property in this city
will be takeu in exchange, or MORRIS and
Notes in payment. Enquire at No. 37» Arch-Street.
un _ Philadelphia, September 13, 1796. U ' L *
tin- — —. ' "
or- F 0 R s A L E,
va- A very Valuable Estate,
'er. * —iALI.F.D : T IVI ¥TE NH A iVf, situate in the
ase ' L township" of Upper Derby, and county of Delaware,
der 7 1-2 miles from Philadelphia, and half a mile from the
S e - new Western road i containing 430 acres of excellent land,
lec 4c of which are good watered meadow, 90 of prime wooi.-
!es i '.and, and the reft arable of the firft quality. There are
? ,£ " on the premifeta good two story brick house, with 4 rooms
na y on a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a pump-well
of excellent water in front; a large frame barn, ltabki,
and other convenient buildings; a fmoke-houfc anditool ,
spring-house ; two good apple orchards, ahd one ot pea'- "
— es. The fields are all in- clover, except those immediately
under tillage, and are so laid oHt as to have the advan a£
loj of water in each of them, whicia renders it peci ry
venient for grazing.
ma The situation is pleasant and healthy, acu Ironi J"g
H a eultiv&tion of the land, the good neighbourhood, an■ ■ <
" c Vicinity to the city, it is very suitable for a gentle^"
i C °Th7foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Harman,
deceased, and offered for sale by
pre- Mordecai Lewis,
" hei Ofl. 9. u&f Surviving Executor.
W | ,
wU PRINTED BY J O H'N FEN NO,
She NO. H9
For
C H E S N w T-S T R E E T.
[Price. Eight Dollars per Annwu-J