of the lEntteu States, Philadelphia Daily Achertis
Number 1-74] SATURDAT EVENING, OCTOBER 8, 1796. -
Washington Lottery.
The Twenty-sixth & rwenty-feventh days' drawing of
the Washington Lottery, No. a, are received at the office
No. »|4i Mirket-ftreet, where tickets may be examined.
N. B. Information given where tickets in all the other
lotteries may be procured.
October », 1796. —
Just Imported,
Tin Plates in boxes
•sh,petan«i bar Le^d
Shot—all ftie* p*tcn' and common
Copper bottoms and flieets
Errglilh fuoes and boots in cases
Taunton Ale in calks of 10 doz. each
Jj::fkct Salt
Wool Ca*ds
Gold Watches.
For Sale by
Simon Walker,
O&. 7. mwfim f Dock-flreet
Sales of India Goods.
"Jlie Cargo of the (hip Ganges, sapt. Tingey, from Cal
cutta and Bengal,
consisting or
A Large and general aflortment of Bengal and Madras
CO VTON-and SILK GOODS.
AMONG WHICH ARE
A variety fine worked, and plain Mujlins,
Doreas, izfe. Also,
A .Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
In boxes and bags—3nd BLACK PEPPER, ,
For Sale by
Willings & Francis,
* No. i) Penn Street.
lane 8 §
GreaTis Truth and mutt prevail,
JUST PUBLISHED,
Andfor fate at No- 41 Chefnut-Jlreet by J. ORMROD,
An Apology for the Bible, r
By R. WATSONy p. D. F. ft. s.
Bi/hop of Landaff, bfe.
Being a complete refutation of Paine's 1
Age of Reason,
And the only aufwer to the Second Part.
August 30. dt
7be Brig MART, ,
Lying at MelTrs. Willings and Francis's 1
Wharf,burthen zoo barrels, built in Philadelphia in 1793,
of live oak and red cedar. is well found, and may
befent to sea at a small exyeuce. For terms apply to
Gurney isf Smith.
OA. 6. dtf.
' " ' »
For New-York, Newport,
and Providence,
nc™ Sloop EA G LE,
John Earl, mufter-r-will \.i\ in a few elegant
accommodations for passengers, and will take freight on
jnoderate terms. Apply to the matter on board, or to
joseph Anthony & Co.
OiSober j. dtS
DISTRICT COURT, ) IT
Pennsylvania Diflritf. j JJ'
I N pursuance of a writ to me dire&ed, from the
Honorable Richard Feters, Efiguire, Judge of the Dif
tri<st Court of the United States, in and for the Pennsyl
vania Diftti<S, will be exposed o Public Sale at the
Merchant's Coffec-Honfe, in the City of Philadelphia,
on Wednesday the nth day of Odtabej inft. at >2 o'clock
'at noon, the SHIP called
jtelggv The JOSEPHUS,
¥a3^N(Wg^ W ith fingulw her tackle, appa*
rel and furniture, as the fame now are,
tho said ship having been condemned to pay mariners
wages, &e. WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marshal.
Marshal's Office, 4th fc)<itober, 1.796. d
For Boston,
-411 The Sch °° ner J 0 Hh>
A conflant trader. Peter Coffin,mailer, £
Ifinjj. tu Mr. Vanuxem's wlierf, will fail in all nest week. C
For Freight orpafiage apply to the Captain onboard or to <-
Edward Stow, jun. |
Who has received by the above vcfTel, j
. Some excellent Pickled Salmon, s
and a few quintals of the C
Very bed kind of Dumb Fish.
September 30. d 9
FOR LONDON, -
'^' )e ca P ,:a ' CERES,
T 0 f a " f° on : —For freight or passage
to DAVY, ROBERTS & Co. or t!
■ fohn Vaughan, i';'
September 10, # Front-fuvet. ti
— . p
tryjjTl. for Cork, e>
Mary Ann, a:
Franei » StnlTt ' m » ft « : is a strong, good £
fh,p, fails fact, and has good accommo
Ja'i-jns for Great part of her cargo being
read), fhc will fail in to days. For freight or paftage
apply to the Captain on board, at Peter Knight's wharf, ~
Or to Stuart iff Barr. '
Sept. 29. dtf No. 100, South Front-greet. 1
yJTI for Charter, «
The Danilh Barque Bsneventura ot
Samuel Stub, mailer, ac
■?'- A good vessel, of about two hundred w
tor.a burthen. ' JESSE & ROBERT WAI.N.
s «T't- 17- dtf
i- or Charter, - f
Dotnittick Terry, , n
De Hart, maftfr : an excellent »«'
vefrcl, of about 3000 barrels burthen. ™
JeJfe y Robert Wain.
September, ii,
For Sale,
30 Hogflieads of choice New-England
Rum ' *
nc( j. Landing fremthe schooner John, at Vanuxera'swharf.—
t j ier For terms apply to No. 71, North Water Sticat, at the
head of the wharf.
oa. 3. f -
The Cargo of the Polacre Independent,
CAPTAIN CATHCART, from Alicant and Xif- '
bon, landing at the fubfciibers wharf—
28 Pipes of Brandy
iZ Bales of Spaniih wool
3 do. of Annileed
7000 Bushels of best Lisbon Salt
80 Boxes of Lemons "
For sale bv WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
ALSO,
Seventy Hogfhcads of prime JAMAICA SUGARS, {
received by the lhip Dominick Terry, Capt. De Hart, £
from Kingston.
— Sept. 13. d
LANDING,"
:al- From on board the Brig REBECCA, Dominic Davijie,
Mailer, at Philip Care's Wharf, and for Sale by the
Subscriber,
lras London Particular Madeira WINE, j,
- , In Pipes, Hoglheads and Quarter Casks.
There are in tlie above parcel 10 Hhd>. of CHOICE
tS ) OLD WINE, fit for immediate use.
Robert Andrews,
Sept. 6. mw&f No. 86, So. Wharves.
Thomas Ryerfon
HAS jnft received, by the (hips Molly and Hamburgh
Packet from Liverpool, and the Light Hor r e from
— Bristol, and is now opening for falc, at his store No.
~ -i 1 /■, .t. aj. «tteqGvc aflortment of
Ironmongery, Cutlery, Hardware
and Saddlery.
' The (hip Caroline, nov/ on htr paflkge from Liverpool
to Philadelphia, brings the remainder of his fail iir.por ■
' tation.
N. B. At the above store may be had, a few slegant
Mahogany Cases for Table Furniture ; also, a good af
>g fortment of the best kinds of Knives and Forks.
Sept. 23. d c }]
Wm. HOLDERNESSE,
— No. 76 High Street^
HAS received, by the latest arrivals from Europe and
the East Indies, a well feledled aflortment of Silk
Mercery, Linen Drapery and Haberdafhei y ; which
s's he will fell, Wholesale and Retail, on the loweii terms;
3, AMONGST WHICH ARE,
iy Some fine India mullins em'oroidersd with gold and ffiver
Superfine Book, Jaconet, and Mulmul ditto
Do do do do Handkerchiefs
Some extra black ttiffetiesjuteftrfngsand colored Peyfians
_ Bandano Handkerchiefs
Long and Ihort Nankeens ju
I Englilh Mantuas of the firft quality
Damalk table linen and napkins, very fin«
Silk Hosiery, an elegant aflortment
Thead and cotton do
Lmbrellas»—icreen (ill., oil'd do. and do cieth ,
French cambrics, very nne - — tni
)n Iriih Linans, do. &c. &c. June $4 ?
FOR sTTSr 4 " A :
PORT WINE, and
-- HOLLAND GIN, of the firft qualities in Pipes.
FRAUNCES and VAN REED,
Brokers and CommilTion Merchants, No. 63,50. 3d St,
le Who discount approved NOTES of hand.
r . N. B. An APPRENTICE Wanted. _ ,
1- September [4. mwf
' a e _ For sale by the fublcrjbers,
:t IN PE|ln. STREET, 01
13s quarter Cheils frefh Hyson 'Pea ;i
100 ditto d«. frefh Souchong Tea; 10
300 Boxes China, containing Small tea setts of 41 ~
2 . pieces; b )
e 400 picces Bandanoes.
" Willings Ss 5 Francis. pn
January .30 tt&f cil
F O R SAL E, mi
By N. and J. FRAZIER,
Nd. S. Front-street, t0
r> Prime Boston Beef, ia barrels. t Wy- i
t. Georgia Cotten.
to Carolina Rice and Indigo.
Sherry and Teneriffe Wines, of eicell.nt quality.
Ravens Duck. , ele
Indio Bandanno's. i
Sewing Silks, various colours. fen
ColTahs and Gurrahs. (
S'l"- *?• Us 4 w. Hr
Lottery and Broker's Office, phi
No. 64, South Skcond stxsst. (
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. a, for sale a
Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in ber
the late lottery. g £t
;e Check Books kept for examination and registering, for
, r the City of Walhington, No. s, and Pattefon Lotteries, R c
both of which are now drawing—information where the
tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New- I T
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel ar.d Public School Lottery, for ' ,
examination. ! a ' '
The fubferiber foKcits the application of the public i t! ' e
and his friends, who wiih to purchase or fell Bank Stock ' , '
a Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands! i ' ,®
&c, or to obtain money on deposit of property.
g Wm. Blackburn. tlu
e Philadelphia, Augufl 18, .796. mth t„i,
Notes lost. ~
"\X7"HEREAS two notes drawn by Benjamin Halkell Rt,t
. V V ana George W. Kirkland, dated Boston, the 24th S
February, 1796, payable to Joseph May, or order, in i 3 —
m ?° * r <Ute ' one for ° ne Thousand Dollars, the *
other Fifteen Dollars, wete stolen with lo#ie other pap«r= t0 r
' outof =; tr «nk 06 the Lar.cafter road. It Urtqneftirfi that Fri(
any perr„n to whom they may be offered for negociatioa, tick
, Will give notice thereof to the fnbfcriher. S
GARRETT COTTRINGER.
JW-JQ. _ ttstf *
Difl'olution of Partnerfhin. re< i ;
T^ E ..^ rt " erlhi P '"-'ween ROBtRT ANDRI 'vS srul 111
, ?^Y > I ?rxV undfcr lhc of ANDREWS
and MLREOITH, being dillolved, All perfcns who a-e S <-n '
' lndeo ' c^ to, ° r whoha'e claims againU the (aid houfc aic S
requclled to apply lor fcitiemrnt t. fublcriber. '
KOfci-.RT ANDREWS,
c c 1: No, 86, S>. Wha*vei. J.
5ept.6,1796- d \ f
t
John Whitelides & Ce,
id Have for Sale,
I Venetian Red,
Spanilh Brown,
White Lead, ground in oil:
Shot, No. x, ;, 3, 4, j.
London Porter, in calks and bottles.
— Green Copperas.
{ Several crates of Queem Waie, in fetls, with desert
...' ditto compleat.
,a * Steel,
tf<taion ditto. *
Sept. 2T. - diw
For Sale,
By J. WARDER, PARKER & Co.
An Invoice of Cordage,
„ Confiding ol'different sizes, from >1 inch cables down
' to rope of a lichee, of different lengths! Imported in
rt ' the (hip Swift, from Hull, and entitled to drawback.
Sept. 17 dtf
NANKEENS,
, e ' Of tit firji quality, FOR SALE BT,
* c RD.'smd JAB. POTTER.
For any quantity absvjrPive Tboufand Pieces, a li
beral credit wif be givefl. v R. & J. p.
September ij. T. tf
70,000 Pieces Nankeens,
Qf the bejl quality, and nr reasonable term},
108 9AJLC BT
Philip Nicklin Ef3° Co.
16. dtf
t Philip Nicklin & Co.
"• HAPS FOR SALE,
Souchong 't
Hyson Skin /
Young l. yion j- FRSSH. TEAS
j'/ Hyson and \
Imperial
Yellow Nankeens
it China Ware, aflbrted in Boxes and Chefti
f- Quiektilver
BaHdanno Handkerchiefs of excellent quality in
ehefts
London Market MADEIRA WINE
London particular >in pipes, hoglkeada, &
New-York Market J quarter calks
, Tencriffe Wine in pipes and hqgfiiaadt
; ; Sugar Camly by the Box ,
j. Sail Canvas No. 1 a 8
Lead in sheets (
3 Calks of Cutlery assorted
r A few cheftsof Manchester Goods, aflbrted tbick
fets, cords, Itripcd Nankeens, &c.
3 Small packages of black feuing-Glkj
s !! Tierces Virginia Snake-root. •
Nails aflbrted jn calks
T tjlv ' raw&f
Wanted to Rent, a
J convenient, well fumifbed Bed Chamber, ;
With a good fire-place, in .in airy and healthy part of a
_the city. Jhe per/on \vh® wants to rent such a —
would have noTobjcSTon to or breakraifonly, with
. the family occupying the house, as may be moll agreeable.
Apply to the printer.
September 19. taw
Public Notice is Hereby Given, ' 1
TO the Freemen of the City and County of Phila
delphia, and the County of Delaware, tnat a gene
ral eletftion will be.held on Tuesday the eleventh dav
of Odobei next.-—The election to be opened between
the hours of ten o'clock in the forenoon, and one
o'clock in the afternoon.
- When the freemen of the City of Philadelphia, are
to meet at the State-house in the city, to cleft -<■
Six Representative! far said citv in General Affein
bly,
One Representative for said city in the Iloufe of Re
prefentaPlWi ef the United States.
Twenty persons lor members of the Common Coun
cil.
Twelve persons for members of the Seleifl Com
mittee.
The Freemen of the City and County of Philadelphia
to elect '
One person for Governor
Two perfQnsfor Coroners
Onep' son for County Commissioner rt
The Freemen of the County of Philadelphia, to "
elefi
Six Representatives for said County in General As
sembly. _
One Representative for said county in the House of
Rrprefentatives of the United States.
The Freemta of the City and County of Philadel
phia, and County of Delaware, to elect
One Senate* for the State
The Freemen ol the township of the Northern Li
berties are to hold their eletßicn at the town-house in
Second Street continued, above Coats's Street. 1
The Freemen of the townlhips of Germantown,
, Roxborough and Briflol, arc to hold their election at >jr
j the Union Srhool House In Gerraantown.
The Freemen »f the townlhips of Oxford, Byberry,
j Lower Dublin and Moreland,are to hold their eletSlio'n
; a; the houle of the lare John tSamfley in Bufsletown, in
| the tewnlhip of Lower Dublin. -
i And the Fi-cemen of theDiftrift ofSoathwark, and
the town&ips of Moyamehfmg, Paflyunk, and Kii'ig
fefling, are to hold their efeaion at the State-Houf; in „
the City of Philadelphia.
The Cenflables of each Ward, Dif!ri<S, fee. ?feto
hold their elecalon, in the different diliritfs to ciigofe
their infpe&ors for the ensuing year, and to give their A
attendance at the time and refpe&ive places. °
Sept. %(,. JOHN BAKER, Sh,riff.
*'** The Eletfors of Cheftcr county are r eauefted
to meet at Hunt Downing'*, in Eift-Calhtov /r.lhip, on
Friday, the 7 th day of OAober eafuing, « x form a
j ticket for the eofuing election* S<
September ia, 1796. o{
— , tt
Ihe Inhabitants of the county of Chester are
requefled to meet at the house' of AbraV tl
in Ijie township of Wtft /iradford, in f Ald eanr-tv J
the 7th day of October /iext, in order to coafu 1 • Irf " "
general ticket for the ei,l"uiiig eleaion. ('
September 14, j 790. — ",V. . .•
... C
Vt r A *.V 7* £ D. ~> W'—-
An APPRENTICE u the Prh I
Enquire atthi. Olfmr. ' f jßafineft,
University of Pennfylvani
Oitaber 5, 1796.
The MedicaiLetlurei wiU commence the firft JMu.2;. r
in November. t»Xv
India Tamboured Mufli is
f' A jmall y handfsme afortnienfref M< 7/.
viz.
Fine- tamboured Malda and Santipore }
patterns aud pvicef.
Plain 6-.) Jaoohc*.
' Corded and cross-barred Mwflin Shawls.
Ditto ditto 6-4 and 4-4 Dorcat,
0 Muflln Handktrchicfs, fine and coari'e.
u Japau Muslins, and
A few pi«ces extraordinary fine Long Cloth#.
>wn rOR sale BY
1 in Thomas Tingey,
No. lai, SouthThird-ftreet.
. Sep't tutf&f
By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
1 li- Sold tj WILLIAM BLACKBURN, A?o. 64,
•. South Second-Jlreet.
SCHEME of 7 LOTTERY,
For raising Sixty Tfcoufand Dollars, agrciably to an A&. of
ib« Leniljature of Pennfyivawia, palled duting the last
ftlfion, for building a Stone Bridge over tlie River
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Rcadinp in the Qounty of
Bcrkj. Dollan.
—a* > Prize of so coo Dahart - sto,ooo
1 do. of tO,cco do. - - jo,coo
g do. of 5,000 do. - - >5,000
4 do. of 2,000 do. « - S.oco
to do. of 1.000 <30. - - - 80,000
39 do. of 500 do. - . 19,500
8c do. of aoo do. . i6,oet>
teo do. of too do. » . . ao.cc?
300 do. of 50 do. - - 15,000
t doj of 500 do. to be paij the jjolTtf- )
for ef the firft drawn no. £ ,^ 00
5 do. of 3 oco do. to be paid possessors )
of the five last drawn nos J 1
9,400 do. of 15 do. : - 141,099
in — ' —
10,054 Prices goo,coo
10,046 Blanks —-r*
** 3° 800 Tickets At Ten Dollars 300,00 a
All Prizes lhali be paid fifteen days*after the drawing is
finilhed, upon the demand of a pofleflor of a fortunate
ticket, fuhjcil to a deduSion of tweniy per cent. The
Drawing will commence as soon as the "tickets are disposed
ot, or perhaps sooner. of whifch puWlic notice will'be given,
k _ Philip MiUcr, Peter K'rfhner, William Wiimar.;
Jofcph Hiejler, James Dtemer, Thomas Durtdas,
JaMes May, Jchn Otto, J e h n Ke'im, liar.lel Crc.J,
Sebqfiian Milltr, Commissioners.
Reading, May the gth, i7§6. *
Tickets in the Cnnal I ottery, Nc. 1, to be had at the>
above office, where the eaUielt-intormatioli of the draw
ing of the Walhingtoi! No. «, aud Pattcrfon Lottery's,
o; - are received, and check books for examination and rcgif
tfringare kept.
OctoScr~7; law tf
le. THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
By W. Young, Mills and Son,
[Price 50 cts. in boards, 62 t-j neatly bound]
• An Apology for the Bible,
In a series of Letters,
" Addressed to Thomas Paine, author ps a book entitled
lv 9 f Reajon, part the second, being an in-
Teßigalitn of true and fabulous theology- *
fly R. WATSON, D. D. F. R. S. Lord Biihop of
Landaff, and Regius Profeffor of Divinity
in the University of
e Sept. 16. . tu&f6 -
»- THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED, '
By Mathew Carey, 118, Market-llreet,
A DifTertation on Slavery,
1- WITH A PROPOSAL '
fat the Gradual Abolition of it
In the State of Virginia.
ia By sr. GEORGE TUCKER, Profeffor of Law in
t'S Unii'crfty qf William and Mary, and one of
the Judges in the General Court in Virginia.
" Slavery not only violates the Laws of Nature and
rt Civil Society, it also wounds the bell forms of govern
-0 " m :nt: in a Democracy, where all men are equal, flavt
" ry is contrary to th« spirit of the conllitution."
f- • \Montcfquitu\
6
f THIS BAT IS PUBLISHED,
}iy W. YOUNG, MILLS and Son,
Corner of Second and Cbefnut fir eels.
Price i-z cents,
; The President's Address
To the People of the United States,
> INTIMATING
;t ' The refolutioa he has formed to decline being considered
among the number of those out of whom a choice is to
'> be made, at the ensuing eleition of a Prelidcnt of the
n United States*
n Sept. so. ws6
. . THIS DAT PUBLISHED,
®y J- ORMROD, No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet,
(Price ia 1-1 Cents)
The President's Address
° To the People of the United States,
" r Announcing his intention of retiring from public life
at the expiration of the present constitutional term «f
presidency. _
September 20.
d ~~ No. 153. r— r
n DifirtS of Pennsylvania, to cpit.
a BE it remembered, that on the tv/cr"-
Septcmber, in the twenty-firft v- .y-fourth daylof
Oi the United S'atcsol A -ir 0 f the independence
the said djftri J * l ~"* t . anerica, William Cobbett of
• e uie in this»office the Title of
" the words foil- whereof he claims as proprietor, ia,
" The to w't
-- " re**' Political Censor, or Review of the m#(l
a -ing political occurrences relativs to the states
rt» f A " ,er j C3 .-'sy Peter Porcupiae"—JonlarmUy to
" A A .»° - ' be ean g rcfsot . «B"&aited States, intituled
_ tJ " . for the encotiiijement of learning by securing
Copies of Man*, Chatts and Books to the authors.
"<i proprietors of luch Cnp-r.s, during the times therein
1 '"{■ntioned." SAMUKL CALDWELL, Cleric
I Diilriit Ptii fylvanii.- - ■■■>—Wat—w»a——MH——ie—■——tr
CHARLESTON, September 16.
i he following anecdote is extracted from the
rnal of the Patriots of 1789, by Real: "I
. . d furnilh some curious aetails refpc&ing the
d fortune accumulated by a certain bra\e Sans
otte. BeFote the revolution he was a dealer
-abbit Ik ins, and his wife retailed in the street
e bottles of brandy, which her hu&and used
ioy wholesale the evening before. This fortun
family, after having been concerned during the
thj-ee years in the purchjfe and sale of national
1, to the value of-feveraf millions, is at prefect
prietor of one of the fined eftate6 in the neigh
hood os-Paris which is valued at several millions
ecus of 1790. —[t were to be wished that Real
! fpecified the ftrms. Several millions can scarce
less than 2,400,000, which reckoning the petit
of France at 8 to a pound sterling, will give us
enormous result of £. 300,000.
• *
BOSTON, Oftobfv 3.
Yesterday arrived the (hip Miner*, Capt, D.
nner, in 44 days from London. She brought
>ndon papers to the 9th August.
.ondin prices current, of American flocks, &c.
3 percents, . - 50 5 1
5> do. ... . . 77 75
6 do. . . . 85 86
Deferred, . . . '62 63
Bank (hares, , - - 107 109
Merehandtzt. Shillings.
Athes, pot, C. . - 48 52
Pearl, ... . . 50 59
Fine flour, bbl. . - 35
-Superfine do. - - 40 42
Carolina rice, cwt. ■ - - 20 22
Linfecd, qr. - . . jo 60
Tar, bbl. . - . '16 18
• Turpentine, cwt. - - 19 io
Well-India cotton, lb; - 16 lo 24d.
Eaft-lsdia, du. - 12 1-2 15
Georgia, do. . 16
Eaft.lndia indigo, - . very dull.
Mr. Pinckney, the American commissioner and
colleague of Mr. Gore, was arrived in London
from Virginia.
Do Aor Nichols and J)hn' Ac,(ley, Eftjuires, afre
appointed commiffijners on the part of the king
of Great-Britaiß.
The king had not appointed the commiSioner
on the Virginia debts.
Insurance at Lloyd's, when ths Minerva failed,
was done at 3 guineas on American (hips arfd pro
perty ; but had been done at 4, j, 6, 7, and 8
guineas, in eonfequence of the capture of the
Mount Vernon. Many of jhe richel and rnoft
cautious writers, would not write on American
(hips or property for several days.
Money was extremely scarce in England, and the
trade mueh embarraflrd. Many of the principal
wanufa&urers had discharged the moil of their
bands, not being able lo pay them their weekly
wages, the consequence of the (hort remittance
from America, and the many proteftcd bills.
The losses sustained by the English, in the Me
diterranean, tire great '; the fear of the capture of
X.i(bon, and Of* a opamfh vv;ir fr raffed great alarmc,
»t Lloyd's, and among tht mercantile part of the
■people.
Many eonfiderable failures V.r.J .ak-n place in
London, and many more in Ki-.nchiller, 1 d other
manufacturing towns.
TOE PANTHEON,
And Rick tr «'s Amphit, Xs:
for Equestrian i ; St. e p rformaiicej. ■ ,rr of
Chcfnut and Six -ftn ;... '.c of ed )N
---DAY, OiT.ober ic . 'a
Brilliant Di/hlay of Scner
AND ORNAM L PA:NTi.
• Nei*> lights ai-.J u tve ty of
SUPERB D CORA ON P.
Mr.Ki cketts wil fndti-.-or toffiajce the vnt'wtiin..l
fflents of each evening ayrr h'« a, pofliblc, re-,
fdlved to use his best ex;: ail or. 1 loajto
his friends and patrons
0- The doors will Op at 6 o nek—Perfi .7 ate j
commences at 7 —Boxes-;; 1 it 9.-;.
Tickets to be had attht :rck-t • of .he Pi htm l . i
and at CEllers's hotel.
Evenings of Performant tfi mday, ' i .itl- |
• diy, Thursday and Saturd;
TAKE~N
THE fubferibfr intends to malt. (<! * n lo: a -
newa! ef the following ecrtifjciu, luppoite :u be
loft on the paflage to Eiigland in April r7 /4
Certificate No. 1033J, dated ; 1 >lc..ruber, 179.!,
for 2636 dollars and 91 cents—--ix »■ t. iitnC ; c
debt, on books of thcTr«efi o: U:-: United States
in the nimi of the Won. JolinTi -or.
ROBERT EIRD ,u Jpin '• .trd r'j.
Philadelphia, Augult 30th, I T)(. r.tifc*Vi
For Sale,
The remarkable fjft failing
SCHOONER i mtL r,
iiow lying at Hamilton's whatf, built li . by *
Yard at Ker.ftngton, of live-oak and red-cedsr--her d.»
inebfio;is are 68 feet 3 inches length on 19 feet C
inches breadth, of beam—B feet 4 inch? ft >;<—i «-
ries between 5 and 600 barrels flout.—The L:vs!y be .rg
well known here, any further defcriptioo ui htr is u»ir. -
Ct'flary—-fuflice it lo lay, that ihe is not inic or o ~/
vefid of her fi4e in any rti'pect whatever~-For terau ap
X&y to EDWARD DIJ&ANT,
No. 149, south yon*.c » - e t
4A*ho will have landed on Wednelday morlui ■ i.r-c,.-from,
©n board the lingantineXliiEß l Y, 'TitPH
c } (aid wharf.
Ht&fbead* prime Havarina isEt/tllis.
IMe1 Me has liktwile tor
' LGVTfA GOODS—C» cf,
A few packages ' Bafn. C-,G j,
rui:gim Cloths, -"H:rrfhiefs, .
Fullicat and Bandan?° tx ~"~ , T >
blatk 1 affaiies, Choppa Romalls, ?urran ' * i
See. See. Alfn, jbuCCmC^
A quantity ol Rhode-Ifla/>d CHEESE,
1)1 ES, and alcvf barrc's BEE J'.
i " i
■ —j-
Lctter\ r - /_• '
The twrnty-Cxth and «aJr»
arc arriTt-d at the Officc tic. 147, Chuiiut-drect. i »i
Piizui in the above Lottery arc cxclunged for tit
warranted widrawn. vJmB .'l,
Oct. 7. £d&Wi"
——M——■—BM—Wl—— miimwi ■ ■ - IV
BY THIS DAY's MAIL. 'j
NEW-YORK, Oaober 7. f t
*7 T II- ''
> Latest Foreign Intelligence) f (
sr THE HOPE FROM LOUDON. 0
— a
FRANCE. g
1 OFFICIAL DETAILS.
t tRMY OF ITALY.
. Buonaparte, commander in rhief of the army of r
s Italjr, to thc.executivc dirc<ftory.
1 " Head-Quarters at CajitgHonc,
• 19 Thermidaf, Aiigajt 6. {|
/ " Our%\ilitary achievements have fucceded one j.
s another so rapidly ft-x-c the rrth, that I hqve found u
it impotiible to traijfmit you an account of them
* before this time. j (
" A few days ago, the reinforcement t>f 20,C00 j
men, which the Aaftrian army of the Rhine had j
j sent to the-army of Italy, ari ived, which, united .
to the numerous recruits, and a very eonfiderable p
number of battalions from the interior of Auttria,
rendered this army extremely formidable. The ge
-1 neral opinion was, that the Aufltianswould feou be f
i in polTtffion of Milan. On the 11 in, at 3 o'cloek v
3 in the morning, general Mafiena's divifiao was at- -
3 tacked by very numerous forces, >nd compelled to
~i give up the important io(k of Corona. At the
. fame time, a detachmei • of- 15,000 Auftrians fur
-1 prised general Soret's division at Salo, and obtain
) rd possession of that important pelt. Guieux, ge
f neralof brigade, with 600 men of the 15th demi-
1 bi-age of light infantry, shut ttemfelves Up in a j
l very large house at Salo, and thence braved the ef-
5 forts of the enemy, who furrouuded tbtir position.
I Rufca, geneial of brigade, was wounded.
3 "While a detachment of the enemy's HiviCos ( j
. blocked tip general Guieux at Salo, another pro
j ceeded to Brescia, surprised the French who wete *
S there, took four companies, whom I had (tation-
. ed there for the defence of the plact; 24 men be-
j Urging to the 25th regiment of cbaG'eurs, two ge* jj
1 nerals, and several officers ®f diitinftion, who re
mained on account o{ ir.difpofition. General So
c ret's divilion, which was to have covered Brescia, V
r retreated to Defenzano. In this dilemma, and
preflVd by a formidable army elated by their recent
r success, I felt-the necessity of adopting some prompt
and vigourous expedient. The enemy, in their de
; scent from the Tyrokfe by way of Brescia iisd the j
Adige, placed mc in the ccntre of their force.— 1
; The republican army was too wea(t to make a Hand
e againtt the enemy's two grand divisions ;it might,
I however, engage them fepaiatelv, and this mode of
i conduct fcemed preferable, as my position was be
tween these divisions. It was therefore possible, by
e a rapid retrogade movement, to surround ihfdivi
-1 vilion «n its maich to Brescia, to take them pri- ®
v foners, or detest them, and thence return with
f equal celcrity to the Mincio, at Wurmfer, and o
s blige him to retreat to the Tyrolefe ; but in order
to carry this projedt into effect, it v.ould be necef
- firy in 24 hours, to raise the siege of Mantua, £
f which was on the point of being taken, as the gaur- j.
risen did not pofleji the means us defence for fix
e hour? longer. "-For the completion of this enter- j
prise, it would be necessary to recrcl's the plains of
n Mincio, and prevent the enemy's divisions from fur- v "
r rounding me. Fortune has favouied the tnterprifr,
and the battle of Defenzano, the two battles of C
t Salo, the engagement at Lonado, and the brilliant !
vidlory at Calliglioue, are the effedfs of it.
"Untheizth, in the evening, all the divisions C
were on their march towaids Urefcia. The Auf
if trian divilion, which had taken poffrffion of that °
- place, was now at Lonado.
•' On the IJth, 1 ordered guneral Soret to re- '
pair to Salo, to relieve general Cuki.x, and general
Dailemange to attack arid retake Jionado at any c
price. Soret succeeded completely in extricating,
Guieux at Salo, after having beaten ta
ken two ftandatds, two picces of cannon, and about
two hundred prisoners. General Guitux, and the v
troops under his command, had remained 48 hours
, | without biead, continually fighting again ft the ene- c
■ m y* _ h
. ! " General Dailemange had not time to- attack f<
the enemy. He was in fact attacked himfelf. An c
; ftion commenced of the raoft obltinate natuie, and n
-vliich was for a long time utKhecided ; but 1 was n
tonquil: the biave 3zd demi-brigsde was there— t]
In the end, the enemy wa6 completely beaten.— g
Tli y left 6co dead upon the field, and we tosk c
~ 900 pn'foricrs. t!
s> "On the 14th, at noo«i, Angercau entered Bref- v
cia. We tliefe found all our magizir.es, See, which p
•he enemy had not time to removA d
'• On the 15th, the division of general Angc-
reau i :urncd to Monte Cliiaro. Mafft nii took post h
at Lonado and Pont St. Murco. I had left at Clf- n
t.gliost geneial Valette with 1800 men. He was t<
to defend that important post, and thereby to keep
ht >< >!':: 11 of general Wurmfci at a diltance from n
1 ~ Bu: on the ijth in the evening, general Va- d
lette aba idoned the place, with half his troops only, ]:
jnde.imi to Monte Chiaro, to bring the alarm, fay- f
ingi vh-. ?he reft of his division were taken by the f
5 -uieuiy. 'i'hcfe brave tioops, however, though t
- t'-and--:: :i')y*heir general, njade.good their retreat t
V.' . r.' Marco, ipftantly ; end before his divi- fc
* I 'u(, -nded from his faudion* this general,
v. Vo ha.! already (hewn want of courage at the at- g
ta. Ct<i<ma. t
' t v.v.i Soret had also abandoned Salo. I or. t
d; r the general Guieux to go and xttake -r
' this i.pouar.t pofitioA. ,
'■* f - the ih, at break of day, wc found our- r
in prefcnce of the enemy. Guneral Guieux, t
wiili the ; was to attack Salo; general
' McTc <$, with the centre, was to attack Lonado, f
1 TTi e. 1 Aflgcrtau, with the -iglit, was to bear v
daw? Of t. : u&uc >e. 'i'lie enemy did not wait our f.
I . ppn. ch. Thfy ere ihll to attack the advaneei) \
• I .ve.,erai K.ilfena, which was at Lonado. »
y, •. 3 !Ui gencrel Pigeon was made pri t
'iad liktn from us three picces r
j rtilltry.
111 the 3th and 3 2d demi-bii'- t
idc( _■ and rrhilft tkey advanced c
/
to pierce through the the latur opened
-their file* for the putpofe of furroundii g thtm.—
This manoeuvre of theirs gave me an. afiurance of
victory. Mafi'eaa contented himfilf wish finding
feme'riflemen to retard the enemy's wings on their
their march. The column arrived at Lomtdo, and
forced the eaemy's poiition. The 15th regiment
of dragoons attacked the Hulaus, and r«took our
pieces of artillery. I ordered my aid-de-carop, Ja
> not, to put himfclf at the head of my company of
guide*, to observe th: enemy, to get befote them
if pofiible, Ltefenzano, and to oblige them by that
means to retreat towards Salo.
On his) arrival at DJfenrano, he there found Col.
Bender with r{y of his regiment, of Hulans,
v.hom he attacked. Janof, not widiinjj raeiely to
cfct off their rear, made a circuit with a part of his
troop, took the regiment in front, wounded the co
lonel, arid was about to take him prisoner, when he
wjis himfelf surrounded. He killed fix men wit,h
his ownbatid, but was a! lingth overpowered, thrown
into a ditch, and received 6 wounds, of which
lam given to hope none is mortal. The eutnuy ef
fected lheir retreat to Salo; but finding that placc
in our power, this division waudered through tlje
mountains, and was for the greater part taken.—
During this time gen. Arigerauattacked C*ftiglione
took that place, and in. the courfc of the (lay he
sustained feviral-obilinate eftior.s with the enemy,
who were double his number. Artillery and in
fantry all did their duty, and the enemy on this
memorable day, was completely beaten ou all fides.
They loft 20 pieces of cannon, from two to three
thousand men killed or wounded, and we made four
thousand prisoners, amonpft whom are three gene
rals. We loft the gen. Beyrand. This loss is
much felt by the army, and particularly by me. 1
esteemed most highly the warlike and the moral cha-;
rafter of this brave man. Potrrallier, chief of the
• 4th demi-biigade of infantry ; Bourgon, chief of
the firll regiment of huflarj, arid Mermet, chief of
the 22d regiment of chaflcurs were also killed
Tire 41 h derm-brigade, attbe head of which adjutant
gen. Vcrdicre naade his » J «»«lr
glory. ' _
" General Danimaitin, wha commanded the
light artillery, difplaycd equal cou.age and ability.
" On the 15th, 1 ordered gen. T)'Efpin»y-rtj
penetrate into the Tyrolefe, by theioad of Chiefa.
He had ptevioufly to defeat sor 6000 of theenemV
wbo were at Gavardo. Adjutant gen. Herbin had
greatfuccefs. He overthreiv two of the enemy's
battalions whom he found in his way, and reached
as far as St. Ozeto Gen. D'Allimagnr, at tire
; head of a battalion of the 11 th demi-brigade, mareh
! Ed to Gavardo, defeated the enemy, and made a
great number of prisoners. But not being properly
supported by the lcftofh/s division, he was sur
rounded, and could not effect his retreat but by cut
ting hie wsy through the enemy.
" I sent gen. Hilaire to Salo to aft in concert with
gen. Guicux, to attack the enemy's division at Ga
vardo, ana so free the road into tire Tyrolefe. Af
ter a briflc action we iefeated the enemy and made
1800 prifoncis.
" On the whole of the 17th, Wurmfcr was em
ployed iu coilefting the remains of his army, in
bringing up his reserve, and drawing what 1 en
forcements he could from Mantui. He then drear
nparr order on the plain between the vil
lage of Scsßnelof, which supported his right, and
Chiefa, vhitfe covered his left wing.
" 't'he late of Italy was not yet decidcd. The
enemy collected an atmy of 25,000 men, a nume
rous cavalry, and fcemed to leave the result in d%ubt
ful leaks. On my lide orders were given to con
centrate all the divisions of the atmy.
l( 1 haftencd to Lonado to ascertain the number
of troops that could be detached from it, but how
great was my furpnze, on arriving at that place to
receive a deputation who had ccme to fumtnon the
| governor to Surrender, because said the officer it is
completely invefled, and cannot be relieved.
ttcm the pickets of cavalry I Concluded that
different columns were approaching our principal
guard, and that the road from Brcicia to Lonado
was already intercepted at thp bridge of St. Marco
I was then convinced that the communication
could only be intercepted by the wrecks of the van.
quiftud division, who having collided after the de
feat were endeavouring to effect a passage. The
conjuncture was extremely embarraffirrg. At Lo
nado 1 had not abow J2OO men ; 1 ordered the
meflVngtr to be brought to ree, and made him take
the bandage off his eyes. 1 told him, that if his
general had the effro levy to take the cammatidcr in
chief of the army of italy, he had only to advance;
that he ought to know that I was at Lonado, as e
very one knew tlijrt the repubh an army ,va» at
placc ; that all tile of&ctrs belonging to the
division should be rciponfible for the persona! inlult
. he had been guilty or towards me ; and 1 allured
: him that if his divifit.fi did not in the space of 8 mi- <
. nutcs lay down their i'tms, I would not flvew mtrcy
1 to one of them.
" The mcffengf, appeared- confeunded at finding
r me there, and in en iultant the whole column laid
. down their ana's. It-confiited of 4000 men, two
, pieces of cannon, and feme cavalry. It had come
■ I from Gervado, ana was endeavouring to find a pal
■ sage to efteft their efcapc ; having failed in their at
-1 tempts to penetrate by way of Salo in the morning,
. they were now making a dcfperatjS effpit to tfeape
by Lonado.
44 N on live 1 Sth, at day break, we were conti
■ guous to each other, yet at fix in the morning no- 1
thing was attempted.' I ordered the whele army !
to make a retrogade moveoieal, with a view of
: -making the enemy .approach, while general Serru- :
rier's division, which I expeftcd every moment, was
■ mar«s«s#Jrom Marlearia, and then I hoped to i
, turn general Wmmfer's left wing.
I " This movement had, in feme the de
, fired effect. YVurmfer extended his right wing to
watch out rear, 'l'he moment that v\e perceived 1
general. Sen urjer's division, under the command of '
I general Florella, which atmckcd the left, 1 ordered 1
. adjutant general Vcrdicr to attack a redoubt which I
the enemy had constructed in the middle of the
* plain, lo support left.
44 I oicicied my aid-«ie camp, Marmont, thief i
or battalion, to take the cocidudl of twenty pieces ]
artillery, acd comj el the enemy, by ihcru i
I alone, to abandon this imporUmi pod. Altar «
Imart and .veil directed cannonade, U,s icii of the
[ enemy was completely routed.
" General Angereau atta ked the enemy's cea
tre, which v.as prefled on the castle of Scagucliu.
I Mallena attacked the right. Adjutant-geneiil Le
: clere, at the head ot sth demi brigade, marched
- to the relief of ihe 4th demi-brigade.
" All the cavalry under general Beaumont acted
t on the right, in order to support the light artillery
1 and infantry. We were ev«ry where vi£torious,
and in all points our fuccefa exceeded our molt fan-'
Ruin? expc£tations. We have taken from the cue
. ir ylB pieces of cannot., and 12© caifi'oos for am
, munition. Their loss in killed and prifoncrg is a
i bout 2QOO naen, and the rrlt ate flying in all di.
» ret'tions: but our troops, h«rra(Ted by fatigue, could
■ not pursue them above three leagues. Adjutant
g'eneial Fnnjrn is killed. This gaHaat officer fell
1 in front of Ihe enemy.
1 "In five days another campaign is terminated i
1 Wurmfer has loft in thaj lliort interval 70 fieid
• pieces, all his caifTons, between twelve anii ti;:oen
tiioufand men, who have been made prisoners, 600&
killed and woundeS, and almolt all #he troopi on
. thair march from the Rhine.
; To these lnfles may be added, a very ponfidera.
: ble number of men dilperfed throughout the coun
, try, some of whom we pick up daily, in ouf pur
- suit of the enemy. All the soldiers, officers and
j genera's, in this arduous service, have univcrfally
. dilplayed feats of conduct, courage and petfever*
: ante. I have to folic it the general ofbri
gade.for adjutant-generals Verdier itid Vignolles.
. Ta the exertions of the former we are, in a great
5 degree, indebted for our fticeefs. At tire battie of
1 Caftaglione, he had a horse (hot under him.
.: 41 The latter, who is the oldeli adjutant-general
: in'the aimy, combines with the malt steady and de
f termined coinage the most tranfeendatit profcffional
f talents. I have likewise to request the rank of
. chief of battalion for Ballet ; that of general of
t division for Daliernagrne ; ar-nttaJ siS brigade, and
r -rtirnnrfc of brigade in the aitillery, for citizen
Songis, chief of battalion.
r (Signed) "BUONAPARTE."
t slrmy nf the Sambre and Mtuje.
ICleber, general of division, commanding the right
wing of the Sambie and Meufe, to the exe.
[ eutive directory.
" Head-quarters, Adalfdorf, August 7.
' " I had the honor of informing yu'u, citizen*
diredtors, by my letter of the 3d ir.ft. that the ar
• my was to march the next morning towards the
1 Rednitz and the Upper Maya, and by that of the
4th I announced to ypu the entry of the republi
can troops into Bamberg.'
" General Lefebvre, who had taken a pofitioti
behind the Upper Mayn and the rivfcr Itz, had or.
1 ders to march a part of hii troops towards Cobourg
• and Lichtenfels, in order to obtain (he belt informa
• lion refpe&ing- the column which the enemy had
: detached to these points.
" I was soon infoimed that these troops, after
remaining a short time in these two plates, conti.
1 nued their route towards Egra ; thus, having no
thing to fear on th s fide, 1 did not hesitate imme
diately grrirTg-xjrdtrrraTvvo divifiorrs 0:i my left to
crofs-the Rednitz, in orcler to proceed to Fcrcheim
' and Ebcrmanftadt, whilst the division on my
established themselves on the river Rauh Eberach.
' This movement was executed on the 6th, -when a
moll bloody engagement totik place between
cavalry of the enemy and that of ths division of
general Lefebvre. The enemy occupied a camp at
Ahendorf, and pushed their advanced potts trom
Strullendorf to a league and a. half beyond Bijre*
' berg. The plain beyond tiiis village vias very ex
' tensive, and prefeuted the great eft advantage to him
who should employ the greatest natnber of cava'.ry.
1 Under circumflandej the enemy anticipated'
the moll brilliant fucccfs.
" In the mean time, however, the cavalry of
general Lefebvre ai rived ; it was composed of three
'■ fquadrona of the fir It regiment, of three of the
ninth regiment of c l iffeurs, and of the eighth re
-1 giment of cuirsffiers; thfy had scarce taken brea:b
before they formed into a column, and gave (ignal
■ of battle. They advanced jvith the grcateft impe- '
tuofity on the viHage of Strullendorf. attacked and
■ carried the fitft ports of ihe enemy, crofTtd the
village- of 1 Herfcherd, and appeared .011 the plain
before an enemj- far iiipeiiot in numbers. Here
i they charged, and the enemy not being able to re
sist the firlt check, gave way and retreated in difor
; <ier, but soon profiting of their fapeiiotity, they
felkupon our left, and threatened our flank. Ge- '
neral Jlichpanfe, who perceived it, advanced with
foiae companies to meet them ; the conflict now
was most obtlinate, and the eonfufien extreme;
in the mean time each rallied at the voice of his
commander, and were soon found at their proper
flat ions.
" We charged a second time,-a»d the enemy
\vereahout to carry the village, when Captain Prud
hemme, of th? full regiment of Cha'fleurs, by hit
voice, his course and firmnefs,,prevented this re
tiogade movement, and ;igain rallied the troops to
battle. Notwithftandirag the valour of our troops,
the enemy by a Jaft attempt, had nearly determined
the vittory on their part, if in ludt ibftant the Bth
regiment of Cuirassiers had not appeared. Thiy •
advanced from the village of Herfctieid with an
impetuosity not to be described, revived the cou
rage of the Chafieurs, fell upon the enemy, repul
sed v them and put them to flight. The Ctiaffcurs
soon took the advantage, they were for a moment
about to lose, and pursued the er.cmy, who, So pre
vent our pursuit, fired without dillinction upon their
troops and ours, both from mtilquetry and from the
artillery which they had placed at the village of
AlteiidorlF to piote£t their retreat.
" General Lefebvre, having obtained his object,
put an end to the' action, and contented biniMf
with making t!i* troops of the division which had
begun to defile, take, under the fire ut his artillery
the ground which he had ordered them to occupy.
" Whilst this was pafllng on the a bod£
of t*.ocps, both infantry and cavalry, deLachcd trom
his division, turned the mountains and marched {t
lenlly towards Ebeimanltadt, which they wcte to
attack on the following day." The division of Genera Collaud took post 111
the second line under the walls of Bamberg.
" The three divisions of the right, under the
Ordertof Generals Grenier, Championnet, and licr
nadotte, marched to the right, and took post behind
the river Rauh Eberach, (heir left being iupponed
by Rednitz, and their right by Schlunenfeld. The
enemy had ihr«wn some battalions and squadrons
into the villages near the mouth of the Rauh Ebe
rach.
" General Grenier, wishing to chafe them from i
thencc, and to take their position, gave orders for
that purpose to Olivier, general of brigade, who ( af
ter an obstinate battle of more than three
succeeded in routing the enemy, and pursued them
as far as the wood of Cent Bukhoven.—The tjeops
under the orders of this General fought with the
greatest courage. v
" The enem-f took a position on the right a
of the Rednitz, between Ebermanftadt and For- 1
cheim ; and on the left, between Forcheim and
Hockftet. To-morrow we fliall attack them at all
points, and the success we obtained yeftcrday is to
us the ptefage »f victory. 1
" Health and refpeft, n
(Signed) « KLEBER." c
The commander in chief, par interim, of the ar- tl
my of the Sambre and Meufe, to the executive i
diiefkory. tl
" Head-Quarters, Adcldorjf, 21 ri
Tkermidor, Augujl 8. c
" By my letter of yesterday, I had the honour f<
to inform you, that my plan was to attack the ene- ti
my on the two banks of the Rednitz, between E- P
bermunftadt and Hockftet. For this purpose the p
division of General Lefebvre advanced towards bi
Wifent, and driving every thing before him on the rc
right bank, took post before FrugendorfF ; but the C
enemy occupying this post of Ebermanftadt, with ci
900 cavalry, 1200 infantry, and some pieees of ar- S
tilkry. Lefebvre sent adjutant general Mortier, fe
with orte battalion, four squadrons, and two field B
pieces tw attack them. -'«r> :ri
" This he executed with so much alertness, that gi
after an engagement of an hour the enemy was tf
compelled to relinquish the post. The General, ri
finding himfelf thus raaftev of the two banks of fe
the river, was enabled on the fame day to fend for
ward his patroleseven to the rear of the enemy. ft;
" The division under the orders of general Co- ju
hud received orders to quit his position at Bam- d<
berg and to march towards Forcheim and to drive tti
before him or destroy whatever force he may find dr
on the plain, or covering that place.
" The enemy was still mi force on the plain aiid re
on the surrounding heights, and general Wartenfle- Si
ben commanded there in person. th
" The advanced guard of general Colaud, com
manded by adjutant-general Ney, was recei«ed by a ki
discharge of 14 pieces of cannon. He had but ga
tw» to oppose to them, yet he did not lose his firm- mi
■ess, but combining stratagem with valor, Jie fuc- go
ceeded after a few charges, in routing the enemy
from their firfl position. Gen. Colaud brought up
some reinforcements to this officer, by which lie was irn
enabled to force the Auftrians to enter iisto Forch- 1 '
beim, and to advance his ports as far as the river.
Ocn. Colaud- fumnioßcd ihe commatxlcruf Hie " ~|
place to open fiis gates to the republican troops, as fra
soon as they arrived within cannon Slot. Adjutant m<
Ney was sent with the fummoas, who availing him- »
fcli of the confternadon which the sudden retreat
®f the Auftrians had excited, demanded instantly a
parley. The commander exprefied his willingness
to surrender as soon as the Auftrians were so far re
moved as not to occasion any diftmbance. The
French officer insisted, and the commander agreed
to fiirrender. We found in this place 20 pieces of
cannon, and a great quantity of arms and ammuni
tion.
"division of gen. Grenier qditted his camp
at RiberfdoifF behind the Raun Ebcracli, and af
eending by the left bank of the Rednitz, eftaUlifli
ed himfelf after a (hort but bnfk action »n the '
heights behind the river Aich.
ihe division of gen Championet almost at
the fame inftar.t defiled by L&uff, towards the river
Aich. All the villsgejon the two banks were oc
cupied by the Hungarian infantry, and protested
by a great number of ai tillery placed on the heights.
I hefc village, were attacked with impetuosity, but c |
the reiiftance of the enemy was obftraarer— C»..x. C
rf-t*7c- pt,*. .
abandoned. Atlaft the bayonet alrine was employ,
ed, and the enemy look to flight, after having fut
fercd a considerable loss.
" Gen. Kray who commanded this division of
. eir ® rm y> fixed all his attention on the attack and
direction of this column, because here the fire of
thp muflvetry and artillery was mod violent. But j
while he his manoeuvre, thecolun-.n J
oiider gen. Berdanotte advanced against Hochftet,
but without attacking it, that he may give time to
the division of cavalry under gen. Bofincau, (who
had received prders to pass the river, and to turn r
the left flank of the enemy) to begin their opera- r
tiwng. r J
S
" All this was executed with the greatest intel- \
ligence and precision, and the enemy's general, who J
c.J not expect this manoeuvre, immediately became
undecided in all his movements. Of this itidecifion A
the generals Bernadotte, Bonneau, and Championet *
knew how to profit, and he was forced, 'after re- v
peated charges of cavalry and infantry, to effect I,
hu retreat. He however proteded it by a heavy J,
fire u artillery, which was arfwered by ours with J<
its accuflomed efficacy, and succeeded to throw the J ;
Auftrians into th« greatest disorder. G
U c van guard of the 3 divisions instantly pur- A
, and without giving them time to rally, 1
compelled them to pass the Rednitz, from which "lev
they withdrew the bridges. General Klein took on t
his position on the bank of this river.
I he enemy according to the report of 111 the
general officers, had the greater body of cavaliy
but ?)1 our corps combated with To much ' valour, T
the generals and commanders of divisions direded into
and executed their manoeuvres with so much wif- culo
rom, 1 hat all obftaeles were overcome, and nothing- wcei
couid refill them. fcng l
" THe enemy's loss was very grest both in in- T'
tantvy and cavalry, and we took a hundred pruW
11 in ers, fijthr of which were mounted, aad one ofHeer.
The advanced posts of the different div;fions were
the extended beyond the river-Aich, the patroles
ier asM parties pushed 011 to that of Aurach- Ac
lind cording to the reports I have received, the enemy
rred muit retire with all speed to Nuremberg. Genera!
rhe Lefibvrc will to day proceed with a party to Graf
ons tenber?.
" It is in this state, citizen direflora, that I now
restore to genera! Jourdan, who is returned to the
-on army, the command which wasentrufted to me.
for (Signed) " KLEBER."
® r, n SUMMARY.
Cm Frtm the (New-York) Minikva. '
ops 1
the I" addition to ihe articles under foreign heads,
we find that fcveral of the princes of Germany had
ink affemblcd at Raufbon to consult on iriakiog :
or . that the landgrave of HefTe has opened negociations
ind for a fcparate pcaee : that the French general La
all horde has taken ifTeffion of the city and lake of
ito Canftance, and has effected a juhflion with a co- f
lum:i of the army of Italy : that a division of ge- (1
neral Kleber has taken pofleffion of a part of the si
city of Ratifbon, and the members of the diet un- c
friendly to the French, had fled t» Paflau & Lint* ; \
ar- that a division of Lefebvre occupied the road to n
ive Leipfic, his advanced guard within 7 leagues; that
the elector of Mentz quitted Erfruth, and p
21 retired to Dresden: that the application of the b
circle of Suabia, by deputation to general Morcau /
mr for an armistice, was fuccefsful, the media- 1
ic- lion of the duke of Wirtembcrg and the king of C
E- Pruflia : that a part of the troops which had taken
he poffeffien of L«ghorn, had been ordered to join the
ds besiegers of Mantua : that 24,000 men are on their 5
he tnarch from La Vendee to reinforce the armies in' v
he Germany : that the Prussian king has caused nego- ai
th ciations to be opened for peace between France ?°nd Q .
ir- Saxony : that to letaliate on (he French for the
;r, seizure 01 Englilh property in Leghorn, several
Id British fiiips of war had entered the port of Genoa, j
liireaiening 10 bomt(a«! iU rl.y.-.Y ibey did not ,
at give up the effrds of the French in that city : that
as the Fiench have demanded of Genoa to place a gar
jl, rifon there, and an entire <xclufion of Enslifh vef
of fels from that port. "
ir An article under the Paris head of August Bth', o
states, that "41 appears to be ceitain that we have
0- just concluded with Spain a treaty of ofTenlive and /
n- defenfive alliance." The Eclair a!fo gives as report,
ve that terms of peace with the emperor were aftualfy "
id drawing up at that moment. v "
The French dire&ory have positively refufed to ' '
id recognise Mr. De Rthaufen as charge d'affairs for
e- Sweden ; afTuring the mtnifter, baton dr Stael, at f C
the lame time, of their » femin-.ents ef affi-tfion."
n- Buonaparte has caused the duke d'Aofta, the r
a king of Sardinia's son, to be arrested—has placed a '
it ganifon in Turin, and demolished the fort' of Du
>- moi,t » because he attempted to excite the people a- m
1-. gs.nft the French. (L'Amides Loix.) p
,y There has been ar. lnfurrcfHon at Geneva, the Ma-
P gilirztes have been difinitTcd, and the French .mnifters ,
is ~, v y P eo P le to in their name provificnally, " a
1. 1"e papers call this a " revoiutiunary niove
men.'- fp«
_ 7he bombardment of Mantua began July li.
is from tbe Flinch many re-~
it moving their efle<fts.
lt — : —H
a i tiILADELPHIA,
fs SATURDAY EVENING, O?TO3ER 8, 1 ; 9 6
e ,At a _ ft3ted raonthly meeting of the Philadelphia
d oeciety for the information and afliaance of perfcns Tei
,f «™ ! E r ating from foreign countries, held at the Penn- 2 >
lylvaßia University on Wednesday evening, the fol
lowing: officers were elefled for the ensuing fix months. N(
PreJUeHt, John Swanwick, Esq. ,
p Treasurer, Thomas Newnham. ■
f. Secretary, John Browne.
Regijler, Henry A. Heini. Yc
:e Cfn/eUorj, T. W. Tallman and William Ewing.
PHJuian, Dr. Arthtir Blam-y. Ver
Committee of Conferrence & Correspondence, lor
l( Morgan J. Rhees, Nathaniel Thomas,
'r WilhamZane, William Cooper, ,
Wm.Y. Birch, Philip Jones,
d Napthali Philips* Charles Kenny.
it c 1 numeroM meeting of citizens at Mr. Poor's P°<
School House, on the 6th Oaober, 1796, it was una-
Peter Stephen Du Poriceau in the chair.
r Governor,
Thomas Mifflin. 59
f . . . _ Co ngrefi,
j' John Swanwick. Q a
f , Assembly,
> Benjamin Say, r »
Matthew Lawler, Ifracl Israel,
1 Jicob Lawerfwylcr, Fergufcn M'llwaine. ? '
j Senator j * ro
5 John Pearfon, Delaware County.
) . . n . SeleSi Council. En
j John Dun ap, Jamcs j rwin>
David Jack son, Thomas Leiper, c i; (
JofanConneMy Ifaae Pennington, 8 I
Stephen Girard Conrad Hanfe, .
Wm.Van PhuH, Mathew Carey, ~ r "
James Sarihwood, Abraham Shoemaker. fi,nn
Common Council,
Andrew Guyer, Matthias Sadler,
Caspar Morns, Benjamin Harbefon, 1
W y B « B >min F. Bache, tern
W.lham Richards, Eiifi>a Gor.lcn.
John Porter William Rift.
Joseph North, John Purdon, ri 1
John Letchworth, John Barker, Ban
Jacob 3 rig lit, Benjamin Tavlor, Lo:
God reyGebler Benjamin Br,an, '
Andrew Kennedy, J lmet Traquair. 1
A new Lutheran Chu^has been eretfed at Jones
Town, Dauphin county, whirh will h*. c
on the . 6th in ft. C consecrated don^
_ S
xtotti a London paper. r r
Tl J? LLI NG. T
■ imo JSJ? I> " ,,
«eek a topping cow-kec. P er near Toliiil fields, chal- T
enged an eminent nightman in Duck-lane, ' rhe'v in L
met by appointment in the nightman's yard • .where T
ctXK r ° f r f C3!s> and Zy ver c
IcojndreU had been exchanged, the leconds, a ft av J. from
ieer. ger" and a drayman, interfered, the point of honour ,
, yere was amicably fetrled, rlie champions fired their pistols
o ] cs in the air, and left the field a gentlemen' of .spirit and
undoubted courage. This rencoatre iugeefied the fol
lowing epigram :
e ,gi TWO dunghill cocks WJ thus hart seen,
r F"H flately ilrutting on the greei;,
Erect their headi with ihutual fco.s, 1
In quarrel for a barley corn ;
now With levelfd beaks remain a while,
the Without advancement or recoil,
■. 'Till gradually their plumes subside,
" And each seems fully fatisfied j
Then round they wheel, and chticfcling fain,
Return so scratch the dirt again.
x And egad, as Bayes fays, this epigram will do for
almost any other duel, at least for nine out of ten.
lt j 3> ' 1 "
(lad G.IZETTS OF THE VNITSIi STATES ftt/.RINE LIST,
:e :
? ns PHILADELPHIA, October 8.
____________
of Captain 1 urner in the Minerva arrived at Boston
eo- from London on the 20th of August, spoke the
ge- fliip Wilmingfoo, Captain Shield, from Liverpool
the for Philadelphia, 21 days out, long. 21, and kept
un- company with her Sdays. Sept. 9, again spoke the
f. Wilmington, lat. 42. August 16, spoke the Po
to mona, Kin ? , 30 days from Philadelphia for Cowes. :
iiat The William Penn failed from London for this 1
ind port the 16th of August. The fliip Franklin and 1
:he brip Fly and Diana, were to fail foo« after." The '
•au Amiable Matilda arrived there the 20th August. 1
lia- The (hip Captain Ewing, is arrived at
of Cowes.
Boston, Sept. 30.
he Arrived fctio. Richard and Edward, Roundv,
«' r 6l days from Rotterdam. Left there no Bolton
veffds. Ship Sidney, capt. Porter, capts. Parker
'°r and Coward of Baltimoie, and brig Ann, Bowen,
n of Newport.
Odtober 2.
™ Arrived slut Four Sifters, capt. Grninell, 84
days (ram Peterfburgh. Left there a number of
American veliels, among which are the following
ir- D:fmo,e ' Ck'ke, Hopkins, and Smith of
Boston i capts. Pickett and Hooker, of Newbury
'' port, and capt. Cook of Salem, all to fail soon.
. Sailed in company with capt. Grant of Marblehcad.
' Sc?t. 28, fpoke-fcho. Patty, capt. Weft, from Ba
tavia, 5 months out. Capt Grim,ell, on his pas- S
sage in lat. 56, long. 59, loft his mate, (Isaac Free- 1
• man, of 8olton)a»d three of his f.amen, viz. Da- 1
Vld L Scott of .Cambridge, John Taylor, of Win- I
throp, and J anus Self of Virginia. .Capt. Grin- Z
nell acknowledges with thanks the afSttance he re- "
■ ceived from capt. Grant, in the loan of one of his 7
hands.
Same day, arrived bri,* Paragon, capt. Falter,
from Gottenburg.
" Same day ship Commerce,' capt. Gardner, go -
s s . fro! ?J ) Jele ' f!jur g h -— f P°k« 9 days f.nce, fti p -
Mary,.of Providence, Lound to Amfterdpm, capt.
j G ' yfft«-'rJay was boarded by a Britilh fiigate.
is , Sa ™ c da y a,tlved Minerva, capt. Turner, e 4
days frorr. London.
' l i ,' urncr > "" his pa flag e .from London, ,
lpoke the following vefTelu, viz.
u Aug 12, off Plymouth, fbigT-.'L > capfa-Ar=
' j notrVnr fYnvrionoo, {ft. I,t fba Bit it,"Bound to
" Copenhagen.
»■ u 151h ,", B V.' ifh fr ' sa,e C °n cord . °f 36 guns, eapt. I
Hunt, (landing S. W. I
vr-uh ?. fig t Pom ? M ' cd P f - Ki,1 S> or Kflth, from S
rl.i.odelphia, bound to Cowes, out so days, long
10, Ist. 35. , 6 ' n
[a 2oth. Sfiip Wilmington, rapt .Shield, from Li
ls verpnoi bound to Philadelphia, 21 days out, lonp. 1
1- 21 — kept coßipany 8 days. J
1" M2f it "® h, > Thr « brothers, of Portland, (,om j
lyl ' l ° : ' dCn ' 2 3' 2 °' OIU 3 7 «
25th. Ship Juno, Timothy Daggett, from N'evv. hi
Yoik, bound to Amflerdam, out 24 days, long. 2C. ,
26th. Ship Edward, lfaac Howland, from Li- b "
Verpool, bound to Newfcuryport, out 21 days,
long. 28. ;
28th. Bng Sally, Cfipt. Johnson, from London,
bound to Newburyport, out 2 1 days, long. 28.
vept.9th. Fell in with the Wilmington again, f
ihe hope, Chandler, arrived arrived at Liver- 1
■ 8 pool, from 1 his por: in 32 days. oi
;; B^' Ved at Cow «. Industry, Myrick, from
2t%. A brig from Saftm (fiippofed to belong to
Mr. Derby,) out 3 days, bound to Corunna, long.- «
59» 3°* ,i
24th. Came up with, spoke, and pass.d, the (hip :
Galen, „ pt . Eddy, for Boftsn, long. 62. * "
30th. Sptxke ship Commerce, of Boston, capt.
Gardner 85 days from St. Petetfburg ; who had "
pi 3 fcip belon g ; "g 'O Portland, "
,im ' uTI 40 dayß> <he ca P'" '"formed 1' '
P, ! wa J had declared by Spain again, 1 '
'"8 • . , ' a^ ne da y. capt. Turner saw 2 frigates, In
■ft. f P ' Cap ' - Gardiner S were En- St;
gh(h frigates. ; nj
r he Galen failed from the Downs, 6 days be- th<
fore the Minerva. Benjamin Hallowel], Esq. and ""
~, y P iffen gc». with a number of others.
TK < iT a ' "P'-tP™'*' wa « to fail in four days.
I he ashy, capt. I'reeman in fourteen days. ha<
tember an '' Capt " Bates ' th « firi of Sep.
The Superb, capt. Trail, had arrived in London. I„ c
The Mount Vernon was spoken will, on the
Lo5 B ', hT 'I, by 3Vt ffcl that a »ived in
Loadon before the Minerva fniled.
T , r ~ Nfw-Vork, August -
, t° W - Mermald ' Haßle y'f'om«hi. p "t, ar .
rived at Martinique the 3d of September. ? ' 1
-nip Atlantic, M. Jose, from this port to Lon- S™
don, jrnved the 19th of August and
*„,h
t, .! u *' C ;°' ker ' from Boston, & the Eliza
from Philadelphia, j
f".»Nc»-VoJM
The Theresa, Filter, of Baltimore, paired Do flaH
- pne:
I'IIIHHIiWMIWII II" 1 " || , a
Mioagßtyii
-'For Sale, I J
tee story ERICK HOUSE and l.ot, in Chefnut 1
eet, between Front and Second ftrectj, in which j Have
Mcffrs. James Calbraith <Sc Co. have {or many years (and
bow do) carried on bufintfs. (
PoJTeflion will be given in one month, or sooner.
l ; or terms apply to WILLIAM BEI.L, or T"»Rf
HECTOR CALBRAITH. Q p
*r"l »i. S Rol ;
A Manufactory FOR SALE. ! .
A Viluable SO V and CANDLE Manufactory, tiiuaie ™."
in a convenient part ot the city ; the wofrks almost: new, v V
on an entirely original cbnftmftion, and built of the belt xV *"
materials, and may be let to work immediately. Per(pns
who with to purchase, are requcftcd to apply at No. 373,
South Second Street. .
September 13. t t f tf entire
—-— Sep
Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE.
No. 63 South Third street, oppoute the national new Ea:ik. Tj'Ol
SAMUEL M FROUNCES and JOHN VAN REED, f d
have entered iato co-partneiffiip, under the firm of eentfi
FRAUNCES & VAN REED, in the business of Brokers, i
Conveyancers and Commiflion merchants. They buy and I
fell on commiflion every lpccies of stock, notes of hand, c
bills of exchange, houses and lands; &c, 5
Monet procured on deposits, &c. &c. all kinds c' 20
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatness and 99
dispatch •, accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the 200
moil corred manner. Conflant attendance will be given, 2000
They solicit- a (hare of the public favor; they are deter- >
mined to endeavour to deserve it. ——
N. B. The utmoil fecrecv observed. J331
S <VMUKL M. VR AUNCES, 4018
JOHN VAN REED.
Philsd. August 27, 1796. m&wtf
——— ——- " - ————— ————————————————
Valuable Real Estate, m E u
Forfait at Auß'u,n by Casper Thielt, of Hamburg,
late the property of James and William Kinnear. to r# f
For file by public auction, on thfe 9th day of' November j„ t h<
next enfuinji-- at the sign of Gen. Washington, Wood's | n t hi
tivern, borough of Reading, Berks county, the follow- 17,
ing real estate, viz. coiitii
A TRACT of land containing 465 acres, with may
No. I, allowance for rojds,called the Purchase, f uu th
filiated in Brunfwick to.vnfhip, Berks countv, patented, ets w
iSth o. Jan. 178S This tract, of which about 15 acres jJa
are cleared, is of good foil, situated on the Tomagua, or
Little Schuylkill, well watered and timbered, on Which is
erefled a good log dwelling house and stable.
No. a. A trad of unimproved Und, containing 284 a
e>es, with allowance, Sac. oalled.Hopewell, patented 28th
1190, situated in Brunfwick townfliip, Berks
county, foil good. ,
No. 3. A trad of unimproved land, containing 376 a- J) -
tres with allowance, &c. called Hillfburg, patented 18th J-V
Odober 1790, situation, &c. as N0,2. TAV
No. 4. A trait wfunimproved land, containing 388 a- city i
cres, with allowance, &c. patented 28th of October, 1786, Tt
situation, See. as No. 1 and 3. daily
No. s. A trail of land, containing 268 acres, and 57 ton,
perches, with allowance, &c. situated in Brunfwicktown- mere
Jhip, Berks county, on Tomagua, or little Schuylkill, 5 and 1
mile j above the town »f Hamburg, 011 which is ereded a T
well finilhed two story fquaredlog dwelling house, 22 of F
feet by 35, within the Pittance ofxoo percheslrom a forge, will
with the advantage of a ferry and public house*; these ad- G
vantages render this trad: very valuable. the <
No 16. A town lot in Hamburg, enclosed with a poll Jrppr
and rail, or board fence, containing in front, 60 feet, and T
in depth 18® feet, fubjed to a ground rent of 7/6 per an- prot
num. L
No. 17. A town lot in Hamburg, enclosed asno i6,to aC co
which it adjoins, being of thefame dimensions, and'fubjed
to the fame ground retityon which is ere&ed a log stable, t«gv
16 by IS feet ' at tl
* No. tB. A tpWn_lot in Hamburg—to No—
a corner lot, fronting on Slain and Schuylkill streets, di- the
mwifions the fame as No 16 and , above described, lub- reqi
ied to ic/o per annum ground rerft. On this lot is er- £
i&eA a large 2 story dwetling honfe, 45 feet front on Mam rxec
ftrect, by 54 feet in depth on Schuylkill street, pleasantly larg
and advantageoufiv situated for a store. hi.n
N B. The above described three town lots will be fold ferv
separately or together, as may best suit the purchasers. ingl
Conditions of sale—One third of the purchase money F
to be paid to the subscribers, or either of them in PhiladeW —.
phia, at or bef jrethe expiration of one month from the
day of sale, when a deed of conve'-anci will be executed ;
the residue payable in 2 equal payments, at 6 and 12 months py
with interest.the payment whereof to be fecufed by mort-
gaje or. the prtmifes. ftr
James Her.Jerfin, 1 Assignees to | ,
Frederick Mw.tmollin, ( the estate of
Thomas Rogers, J James & Wnt.
Jefeph D. Drinker, J Kinneas-. • s up
Septexhber 26. m & th* j l nl .'
r ■ - — - ■ 1 pan
Treasury Department, '
September 28, 1796. " f
■V TOTICE is hereby given, that propofah will be re- •• i
i\ ceived at the office of the Secretary of the Treasury
t:-:til the expiration of the firft day of March next en- <« <
fuir.j, for tbc supply of all rations which may he required « ]
for The use of the fiutfil. ItfiaL the firft dsy af-Ai
lunt 1797. to the th'riy-Arft day of May, 1798, both " ,
iays'inclufive, at the places and within the diftriSs here- « 1
St-r mentioned, vii. 'At Ofwego; at Niagara; at-> " ,
Pjefque Kit; at Sandufky Lake, and on Sinduflcy « 1
River ■ at Detroit; at Michilimackinac; at Fort-Frank- "
lm, at Pittsburgh; at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hamilton; '< ,
it Fort St. Clair; at Fort-Jcfferfon ; at Grenville; at »
Picque Town and Loramies Store; at Fort Adams; at
Jo,; \v aync; at Fort Defiance'; at any place below Fort 7m
Defiance or. the Miami River to Lake Eric; at Fort m<
Steuben ; at Fort Maffac ; at any place from Foft MafTac ici
to the fcuth boundary of the United States on the river po
MifliGopi; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiatanon. cr.
If supplies Ihallbe required lor any pods or places not is
•mentioned in this notice, all such fupplie; Ihall be fur- gr
niftied at prices proportioned to thofs to be paid at she
polls before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed on /
be: ween the United States and the Contractor.
The rations to be supplied are to consist of the fol
lowing articles, viz. tot
One pound two ounces of brrad or flour. or
One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounces of ft,
pork or bacon. b<
Half a gill of rum, brandy or wiii&ey. w
One quart and half a pint of fait."^
Two"qlia«s of Vinegar, ( hun(Jrrtl riltlon , a.
Tw® pounds ot tooap, I n:
One pt>und of Candles, > h
The rations are to be liirfiifbed in such quantities, asthat c ,
there T?iall «t all times during the ftid tdrm, be fufficicnt
for the contSmpt'ren o£ the troops at Michilimackinac, Dc
troi' Niagar a Ofwego, fnr the term of fix month, in
acvatict, and r.t eachnf the other polls, for the terai of
»c it alt -hrce months ill idvaocc, in good and whole some
provifioDS.it the fern-; Oiali be required. It is to be un-
Jeruocd, that the Concraitor istc be at the exyence and
rilV of if nirg the fuppiic to the troops ateacb poll, and t
that all b'ffe. luftained by tke depredations of aR enemy, or I
b- meaas-of the troops of the United States, ih»H be paid
ut the price of the »tticles captured or deUroyed, or.
tUe depofitioHS of two or rar-re persons of creditable cha
and the cerrilicatc of a coir.miOioncd officer, af
ccrtairing the circunifcances of the loss, .jjdthe ac-.ount
»i tV- uticles sot which crn .perifation iball be claimed.
OLIVER-WOLCO'IT.
hwcJturyof'the Treasury.
I JOHN MILLER, fun. & Co.
No. 8, CHESNUT STREET,
I Have Imported in the late veffeU tram Lurope, See. "J7IN
AVD HAVE 10R SALE, I\
A general afibrtment of GOODS, fuitablc to the ieafon V\ ili<
Amongst which arc, Al
BROAD and narrow CLOTHS, En
Plain and twill'd COATINGS, State
Rofc lVripcd aad point BLANKETS, Se
FLANNELS and BAISES,
HATS ailoi'tedia cases,
IRISH LINENS, SC
INDIA GOODS, generally,
. A Consigned Invoice of IRONMONGERY,
Gomprifmg a capital afiortmentio <»pen a store -»nciU
' din % Thirty Calks of NAILS. This invoice witt be icld A
entire on very advsntagdous termi. ciw
September 10.
Lottery
FOR raising fixthoafand fix hundred and f:xty-fcvir.
dollars and fifty cents, by a deduction of fifteen per
f cent from the prize*, and iy>c two, blanks to a prize, viz
. I Prize of 5000- dollars it dollars 500 c
i X 1000 IQOCI
1, i s<x> S C ' C
< 200
' 20 lOS 3°°°
d 99 50 4?i°
e 200 25 5000 J
l. 2000 10 ac,ooo j r
5 I.aft drawn numbers ef icco dollars each, 5000
2332 Plizet.
4018 Blanks. —
5<5
6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44>45° „
By order of the Directors of the Society for eftabiiih
ing UfcfulManufactures, the fuperiotendailts of the Pat-
erfon Lottery hive requested the Managers to offer the
' foregoing Saheme to the public, and have direded them
to rafund the money to thafe persons who have purcbafed or
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets' v
4 in this Lottery. . T
I'he lottery has adtually commenced drawing, and will vatc
coiitiitue until finilhed. A lift of the blanks and Prizes W(
h may be fe.n at the office ot William Blackburn, No. 64 z ror
south Second ftreef, \yho will give information tfhtre tick
1. ets maybe procured. ts f c
;s Dated this 17th day'of Jane, J796. j hcn
T y. N- CUM MING, 7 ,j, cl
18 JACOB R. HARnE\ r B£RG,[ Managers. An
JONATHAN RHEA, ) the
'■ dtf e " - will
Samuel R'chardet, U t
I- "n ESfECTFULLY informs the Gentlefnen
h IV Merchants, that he has this day opened the! CITY Itc
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEE HOUSE ift the [j';' 1
i- city of Philadelphia. / al
i, The Subscription Room will be furnifhed all the J
daily papers published in Phihdelphia, Bos- Ile
17 ton, Baltimore, together of the principal coir- ul^
II- mercial citi«» of Europe—T«ey will be regularly filed .
J and nciie permitted to be taken away oro any account.
a Tea, ■ Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, IceCreams, and a variety °
12 of Freffch Liquors; together with the usual refrefhmenu,
;e, will at all times be procured at the bar.
d- Geptlemen may depend on being ascommodated with e
ihe choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the most 1
sft Jtpproved Malt Liquors from London and other breweries. |
id " The Larder will be supplied with the prime and carliell ™
n- produitions of the Season. * ; "
Large and small Parties, or Cnglc Gentlemen, may be
to accommodated with Sreakfafls, Dinners, or Sappers, at |
moil conv.iiient to themfelvcs—a cold Collation is ; |- c '
le, tagvlarlv kept for convenicncy, thu Billof Fare ta be had
at the bis. "
-2— - Tl-> 7 n onrnt- vill be eompl.-telv fuiiiilted. aß'l
il- tlie rTf rrT^a ~vifinn tr -1 1: - I M' Wr-- .itit.r
lb- requisite.
cr- StMOEi RichasDet will behapjlyto receive, and •
iiu execute the commands 6f Itis Friends, and the Public at J*'
tly , and with gratiti/de for their favours, Ue pledges
hinifelf that nothing on his part ftali be wanting to pte
lid serve that patronage with which he has been so diftiEguifh
ingly fionor.ed.
ley Philadelphia, April 19. tnwf
leU —:—— — *—-—
Treasury of the United States. Al
ths "\.T OTICE is hereby given to all persons Who are or
( f\ may be Creditors of the United States, for any lums
' " of the Fur. Jed DM, tr Stoci, baring a pr'jint intnejt of fix
per centum per annum.
3to , Xhat pursuant to an Ad of Caogrefs patted cn the
of j 18th day of April, 1796, intitled an ait in addition to an g,
'm. sS, intituled " An ad making fuither provision lor the
i fuppoft of public credit, and for the redemption of the
! public debt," the said debt of stock will be reimbursed and
_ ! paid in manner following, to wit. " Firll, by dividends
6 t0 be made or. the laif days of March, June and SepteCk
« ber for the present year, and from the year oncthoufand f n
" seven hundred and niiiety-l'even, to the year one thou
re- •• sand eight hundred & eighteen inclufivc, at the rate of —
ury « one and orte half per centum upon the original capital,
en- j » Secondly, by dividends to be made on the bit day of n
red « December lor the present yeai, aadffom the year one J
. pi" « |^ nT f"irn 1 1 'il mnrtr-frwiß, iftj yeXr
.oth " one thonfand eight hundred aiid seventeen incluive, al q.
tre- " the rate of three and one half per centum upon the ori- ap
at " ginal capital; and by a dividend to be ma eon the lalt f,.|
iflcy " day of December, in the one thousand eght hun- fe
nk- « died and eighteen, of such fem, as will be then ade
-6n ; « quale, according to tlie contrad, for the redemp
at " tiofi of the said '.lock. 1 ' j -
lat id. All ditlindion between payments on account of !
'ort Tntcnli and Principal being thus abolilhed by the eftablilh- |
fort ment ot the permanent rule of reimbursement aboTe de- ! /
iffac lcribcd, it has become heceflary to vary acc»rdi»gly the I ±
iver powers of attorney for receiving dividends; the public
creditors will therefore observe that the following form
not is eftab lifted for all powers of attorney which may be P
fur- granted after the due promulgation ol this notice, viz.
: she KNOW ALL MEN BT T2IESE PRESENTS, Uat
on / - of
do make, Conjlitute and appoint
fel- 0 J toy t rs * cr -* lawful At- ( j
tor hey 1 for Hie, and in my nam:, to receive the dividers Js -u-b ch are,
orfiall be payable according to lam, on th< (here describing the
CS of stock) flan din? in my name in the booh ef (here dcfcribtflg the
books of the Treasury or the Ccmmiflioncr of Loans,
where the flock is credited) from (here mfcrt the com
mencement and expiration of time for which tke power of
ions attorney is to COKf iniie) u itb poiver cifo an ailur.ity nr attai
nts undei him, for tbat purpefe to mate and fhijiitute, and if do all
lawful ucit rcfuiJitefoT ejfeiGsg thefrmmifes\ hereby ratifying and /
5 that confirming all tbat my said Attorney or biifubfiituteJcalL lawful
cient ly by virtue hereof. r
, De- I a Wttnefs bcreof\ I have hereunto set my Hand and Seal fbe
in day of in the year f
Hi of Staled and Delivered . c
Tome in prefer < !
>e un- BE rr KNOWN, that on the Jjy of ' f
e and efore me ferfonaliy came
, and within named and acknowledged the cltvc letter of attorney to be '
ny, or bis eX and died. *
c par*d J n ttfiimor.y Ivfareof I have hereunto set my Hand and-affix
:d, or. td Seal ibt day and year la ft aforefaid.
t cha- GWec under my Hahd at Philadelphia, tliis twen
er, as- tieth day of July 1796, pursuant to dirediens 4
rsount from tlitrSecretary oi thc Treasury
•d. SAMUEL MEREDITH, >
Ircafurcr ef the United Stater» 1
* r i % ™&*tij. i
For Sale, °" '
A Co;* lete Font of Brevier,
TPNtirely new, and yet unopened. The weight Ou»
jf, font is about 31a 1I». It is from the tounaery 01 A
Wilson & Si>in>,Glafsow.and will be fold St cost & chasjes. i
Also for Sale, a pair of Super Royal Chaff*. «e
Enquire at the Officc of the Oazcttv of the United
States. ,19 Chefcut-flreet.
fcepttmber 27. _ ; iH(j
City cf Waihington. i arg(
SCHEME i/VA; LOTTERY, No.II, «
fok THE .'MPftOMMENT 0 r TntL witll
- FEDERAL CITY. j.j
i ■ A magnificent ) 10.000 dol'ars, oc ) q hjll
tiwelling-houfc, ) «> h 3«>ooo, are > of y
I ditto 15,000 & cafX is>^ oa 40,000 vau!
1 ditto 15.000 Ic oafli 15.000 ' 30,000 nsat
r ditto >o,ouo & cadi 10,000 20,000 j u ;,
n, 1 ditto 5,000 & caiW 5.000 10,000 the
r 1 ditto 5,000 ck ta(h 5.000 10,000
I cash prize of 10,000 la;g
d a ' **. 5,000 tach, are • 10,000 coin
q 10 do. i,t500 - . - 10,000 Vt . r j
6 so do. 500 ' • " tv, 000 w.i,
0 00 do. 100 * * 10,000
a aoo dd. 50 - - 10,000 Roc
3 4co dtr. 15 - - JO, oop and
0 J,OOO do. ao - ao.aoo the
3 1 <-,eoo do. 10 » - ijo.oWo " ni J
0 ' • the:
: "5.7,19 P'riiei. ™ d f
0 3j.i6i Blanks.
0 50>ooo Ticfcsts, st Eijjht DoHsf*, 400,000 {
N. D. To Favour those who may take a quantity cf
Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will b« the laM' drawn
£ ticket, and the 30,Q00the last but one :
j And apprtved notes, securing payment in either money
or prizes ten days alter dhtvyrfcj, will be received for
' acy number not less than 30 tickets.
.. This l.oltery w ill afford art elsgalrt fpetimen of thepri- I
vate buildings to be cre<9.c(Jin the City of Wafhingtcft— En*
° Two beautiful designs ore already fele&ed for the entire C
4 fronts cn two of tie public squares ; from these prasyings —■
it ispropofed toere<sl two cehtreand four coriscrbuifd'fiigs, \
>s fob 11 as possible after thi* lottexy irfnlrf. -inrf tn ron.«--y
them, when ccnrpft»Cr«» "ifec fortunate adventurers, iu
the maunerdrfcfiljcd in the fehemc for the Hotel Lottei y. -w-i
5 - a nett dedudtion of five per cent, ivillbe fnade to defray y
the neceflary of priniissg, &c. and the surplus j .wr
will be made a part of the fund intended for the Natiaual 1 a (_
U»iverlity, tobfi eroded within the city of Wafiiington. ton .
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
n fold off.—The money prizes will be pay Ale in thirty days
Y after it is finilK*d ; and any pr zes for which fortunate
numbers aie not produced within twelve months after ths
le drawing is clofcd, are to be couMercd as given Cowards
the l'un«! for the Univcrficy ; it being determined to fettle
V the whole bufmefs in a year from the e-.ding of the draw-
iug, and to take up the bonds given as security.
The real fecurit.ee given for the payment of the Pi izes,
' are held by the President and two DircAors of the Bank ,
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
raount ol the lottery.
' 1 The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of
t |j the late Comniifiioners afiifled in the management of the
>;l Hotel Lottery are refuelled to undertake thi* arduous talk
! a second time cm behalf »1' the public j a fufiiciest num
I ber of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the ,
j friend 9to a National L'niverfity and the other federal ob- '
I jeilsmXy tontiuueto favor the design.
_ t I By accounts received from the diflerent part,s of the
is 1 Continent as v.-ell as from Europe, where the tickets d „|
a( j ! have been f«nt for sale, tlx; public are assured that the DO]
j drawing, will fpeed-ily commenee, and that the car*, and
T I caution unavoidably neceffaryto insure 1 fafe disposal
i lin. I ' l *|- nf.rl I. .1 *I|l . ,
SAMUEL BLODGET.
trd ,5. Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ■, o
at James Weft & Co. Baltimore!; of Peter Oilman, Bollon
rcs 01 John Hopkins, Richmond ; and cf Richaid Walls
f t ; Cooper's Ferry. eo
Watson's Answer to Gibson.
yusr RECEWED,
And for lale by J. ORMROD, No. 41, Chefnut-Rrect,
or Apology for Christianity,
In a ferit tof Letters, addrejfed to
J '" Edw.ird Gieson, Es<t. -p
t j _ Authef cf the Hilton of the Decline and Fall of the |>
Roman Empire: he
By R. UAT SOW, d. d. r. r. s. Bilhop of LacdafT. 0 f
(Price 75 cents bound ) ; n i
md Watfoa's Anfwcr to Paine, «>
ndk To be had at the fame place. P r
■tar The enemies of Religion are iKvaie ! Let n»t ktr to
md friends seep. ■»
0li " Sfpt. 1- mw&ftf ~
tah NOTI c E.
°t Subscribes, having been rciuced ?n Ms circum
_ X liy funciry lnisfortimcs, and Uelng thereby- —7
' Crulitors to all pcrfons concerned, that fce intends to 7c
3ri ' apply to the General Affcmbly of Maryland at their next
session to be held in the firft Monday 01 November neat, ha
un " f«r the benefit o* iiu a<sl of insolvency. !l
!<€ " WILLI AvT EDMONDSON oi
U P" EaO.on. ift r.f Qth month, 1796. lawtiftMN 3,1
j — tor
. 01 'j To be ioid, »
ilh- N
( j c _ | \ PLANTATION; in the town of Woodbury, eoun
(;c | _ijL tyof Glouc;iter, asd ltate of New-Jersey, contain
blic 'ng about one hundred and fifty acres ; a suitable propor-
MU) tion of which is woodland and improved meadow. A
(. e great past of thf arable land is in a high slate of cultiva
z lion, aad very i atu-al to the production of Red Clover.
, On said plantatic:; there is two«ftory brick house, I
with four roam; on a flcor, aad a good dry cellar under
the whole ; together witk a barn, corn-cribs and carriage- ?
house. l'ise garden is large, and contains a good collec n
tion of the belt kinds of grafted and inoculated fruit trees j , 4
the orchard confsils of about three hundred grafted app'e
f j* trees. Any person inclined to purchase said piemifcs, may 0
be informed cf the terms by applying to °
''" s ' ANDREW HUNTER. °
bt of lujyl u jy -9 d "fj
!a all r0 B£ SOLDj jj
r and jfa j2 S j Norlb Second*Strett, and by several ij u
°f u^m the Apothecaries in this Ciiy. v
TRANSFERS of the rjghi to remove pains and infhmma
itcKif from the human body, aiiccurcd to Dr. HLISIiA I c
PERKINS, by paten:, -with inftrumcnu and direftioiu «e- v
ceflaiy tor ihe practice. This mode »*f treatment is pariicu- c
lariy uicfui in relieving paint in the head, iace, teeth, brcaii,
fide, ftoinach, back, rheum.irifm*, reccnt gouts, <scc. &c. c
Notwithstanding the utility of this pratticc, it is no: pre
fo fa fumed but there are calcs in which thu and every i,ihei
icmedy may loisetimes tail.
ifx. ' Un;1
To be difpoi'ed of,
Jens 'T'HE time of a healthy NEGRO WOMAN, who
-L has between faur and five years to serve : Sht
can be recomratndcdforherfobriety andhoneflv. For
■tit, j particulars enquire at No. jji, Chefnut-ftreet.'
;J. 4 Aujuft 2. ' v<Utf
On iVcdnejday e.ijjiiingy 10l zt :rj*. r.t 7q 1 ciuch 3
the C Tre-Haufc,
Will be Sold by Public Auction,
ALAR OK, elegliut, and well fir.ifhed three i l corj-
Brick HOUSE, (the late refiderice of Gca. Waiu
Stewart,) with a Lot of Ground thereunto belonging
on th« Welt fide of Tkird-ftreet, near Onion-ftrect, coi.
taining i» fr«nt 2 feet, and in depth 100 feet to an aik
leading into Union-street. The House is 31 feet fton,
a»d 50 feet deep; the ieveral rooms contained in it ar
large, commodious, and coaiplcatly finifhed ; the tw>;
firifc (lories are each thirteen feec high; there are te
mahogany door* in the house, a geometrical itair-cal,
with .nahogany rails, and a good iky-light ; the kjtch<
is in the ceilar, which is spacious and convenient, ar».:
finifhed with an oven, stew holes and pantries, a lerra;
hall and large wine cellar adjoining the kitchen, in frojK
of which is an area in which is a pump; the yard 1 i
vaulted. Communicating with the said building, is ;
neat, thfee-itory I>kick HOUSE, on the North Ude </
Juion street, confamiug ao feet front by 20 feet det.v
the Lower £art of whicn :s at pre'.e.:t occupied as a cotSw
ing-house, and the npper part divided into well fii.ii/?**!
large chamber*: tins may, at a final 1 efcptiioe, tic
converted into a convenient dwelling ; the ftr««: door is
wry handsome, and the front and hack have Venetian
wudovv-fhutters. Ad Venning the last mentioned honfe,
upon the lot belonging to the firft, are Bathing*
Rooms, &c. that-ire iikawlfe very goOd-Caach-Houfes
and Stables, iinilned equal (or near!) l'o) wiih any in
the city, on a lot, containing or. Union-Dreet k> fseC,
and in depth on the Welt fide of the fold alley 52
there are good cellars under the whole ol the building.,
aiid a Wine Room over a part of the arable, wkh a Hay
Loft over the remainder. Approved notes at do and 9c
dayb will be taken for one half of the purchalc money,
the remainder 011 like notes at live months, leeurjty to be
given on the premiJes until the whet* «rdifcharged.
I FOOTMAN & sco; JlViAioncers.
l 6th OA. dtiath
FOR SAL E,
An Elegant Bay Hoxfe,
fifteen hands high, four years old, Xv~. ...nted fouiiil
. Enquire at No. 194, Market-fhect.
- Odoher 6. *2
3 — — *"
; \Vailimgton Cans! Lottery,
r j ict+ %
■ T'i-iI.RI'.AS the State of Maryland has authorifti
f W the •underwritten, to raise twenty-fin tftoufand,
s two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpoic of caJtir.j
' a Canal through the Cit>* ol Walhington, fro#a th >0f ".
tomacto theEaftern Bravteh Harbour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
' Viz I Prize of 10,000 dollars, 16,000
c 1 ditto 10,000 JrOfiOb
8 7 last drawn 7 . , ,
> , 1 > SI OOO 3S,<x*
8 Tickets, each J "
e 6 ditto IjCOO 6,000
<0 ditto 4 00 4.C00
ao ditto Jioo z,300
'• j5 ditto 50 1,750
1 ST5° ditto 11 69,00?
To be raised for the Cfcfill, 26,^0
5,850 IfjfiCZ
£ 11650 Blanks, not twe to a priae.
1 I7JOO Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
f €T '< "he Commiffiotoe*s have taken the Securities rr
quired by the sforefaid aft for tile pandtual payment of
the priae». /
'■ e i'h? drawlagof tin Lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon as thf Tickets are fold, oi which timelf
1 ® notice will be given,
. Such prizes as are not demanded is fix months after f?i*
trromrtr fmi.ftetl^CnltTii^conliaefed as reliiiquiSed fur
v ' the btnefit of "tHrCaual, and appropripttd act rdiagly.
(Signtd j NOTLEY YOUNG,
0 DANMEI. CARROLL, of D*
" ' I.LWH />UBLO!S,
" s GEOk'(SE WALKER,
Wir.
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
Ciry of Waflingtoa, Feb. >1. §
At a special meeriirg of tlx Board of Di*
reSors for cjla\¥t!hing ufefui Munufatlurei, ktidtK
at Paler/in, July 8, 179&,
FEJO'i.VED, That a special meeting of the Stock--
t hold«r»of the Society be called on the firit Monday,
being the third ay of Oclober nest, at Patcrlon, by te»
ff- of the tloclfc of the fame daythen and there to trke
into con&dcraticn the propriety of diifolving the fr%id
corporation, agreeably to the law in Inch cafe Kiade Jiid
provided—and the Stockholders are earneftVy requeit
to attelid the &iti meting io pcrfon or by
Auguil 17 dt.i^t'nO
FOR SAL E.
n A PLANTATION,*
bp —S-BOtTTu miles fremthk Citv, fittiate in Ahiiig
, - 1 ... 1 f i' ■■■■" "'fl
to 7c a«ic&, a new stone house. two stones high, a room* ona
xt floor, tire places in ejeh, a Hone kitchen and llone lpnng,
rt. houlc, over an excellent spring of water, a barn, (tablet*
sheds, barrscks, &c. A atopic orchard,-a varieiyof
other fruit, about 12 acres of good meadow well watered,-
[jq and wood fiifficieat for fire, and fencing the place. ?oircfTi
— on may be had the ift of Apiil next. Proutity «'» »his city
will be tak.en inexchauge, or MORRIS ar.d NICHOLSON
Notes in payment. Enquiit at No. 37, Arch-btrcet.
m * l hiladelphia, September 13, 179b. ttftf
in- , - —-
FOR $A% £ t
A very Valuable Eltate,
"j /CALLED T IVI TTSN HA M, fttuare in the
township of Upper Derby, and county o: Delaware^
7 1-2 miles from Phiiad-lphia, ar.d half a mile from tnfc
new Weftcrn road: containing 250 acres, of rrcellent lindf
-45 of whidi are good watered meadow, 9c of prime wood
land, and the reil arable of thtf firft quality. There are
on the premifas a good two flory brick houfe r with 4 rooms
on a floor, ;uid collars under the whole, with a
of excellent water in front; a large frame barn, itabics,
and other convenient buildings; a smoke-house and lto*e r
spring-house ; two good apple orchards, and one of peach
es. The fields are all in clover, except thofc immediately
under tillage, and arc so laid out as to have the advantage
'Qj of water in each of them, which renders it peculiarly con
venient lor grazing'. ~~
ma The iituation is pleafantandL;alihy, and from the Higr
liA cultivation of the land, the good neighbourhood, and thi.
nc- vicinity to the city, it is very suitable for a gentleman >
icu- country fest.
-ait, The foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Harm -' 1 y
deccafcd ; offered for sale by
Mordecai Lewis,
OAi g. tt&l' Surviving Executor.
BY JOHN F EN N C,
hc —No. 110 —
For
CH ESNUT-STRt E T.
[Pricc Fight Doliar* per Ai