' : • ■ 7
<6ajcttr of the t&nittti States, & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
hvMSiit 1266.] THURSDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 29, 1796. ~ [>*•' wr X.
•*■■ ■ -i
For Sale,
The' Brig DIANA, th«
Lying at Chefnut-ftreet wharf; a stout No
well vefTel, ®ne hnndred & fifty-eight tons burthen ; I
well found, and bat four years old. Apply to oti
fofeph Anthony & Co.
Sept. 26. d 6
• For Sale, ~ j
jlfiii' 1N ® U S°T RY, *
"•"St- Burthen about 700 bbls. a good vest
„ — fel, and will be ready to take ill a car
go in two or three days. Also,
FOR SALE,
ft. few hhds. ANTIGUA. RUM, received by t0
i'.iid sloop, and now landing at Morton's wharf. Apply to tat
THOMAS GREEVES,'
Sept. 14. d6t. ND.73, Walnut-street. jy{
,jl tor Charter,
The Ship Dominick Terry,
< Jacob De Hart, raafter :an excellent .
>0 veflel, of about 3000 barrels "fourth n.
I - V Jefe Iff Rbbert Wiiln..
September aI. d t
For Charter,
The Danifti Barque j
Samuel Stub, mailer,
Sc3oli= J ii-"=£i§.A good veflel, of about two hundred
■ ■ toris burthe'l. JESSE & ROBERT WAI.N.
■ ' Sept. 17. dtf
. l : ■-".»■
yp< FOR JMNDON.
r^"'le ea P ,ta ' CERES,
soon :—For freight or paffajfe
t 9 DAW, ROBERTS & Co. or
yohn Vaughan,
Septembei lis. Front-street.
' FOR SALE,
The Chip STAR,
VSjßfeSrj John Vanweman, Mailer,
T YING at Walnut-street wharf, Philadel-
!_J phia built, of live oak i»d cedar, will
ca" a"bout 3100, barrels, is two years old, and in cora
plea- order to receive a cargo —For terms apply to
* THOS. & JOHN ZETLAND.
Who have also for sale said vessels cargo—confiding ef—' .
Wine and Porter bottles,
Window Glass, 6 by 8 to 16 by li.
Pipes in boxes
Earthen-Ware in crates. -C
Grindstones, Coals, Whiting, &e.-
Aug. 19 *
" BRAND Y,
OF lit and 4th proof, and equal to thjt import
ed from Franc?, may be had ot the fubferiber at nii Diltil
lerv, No- I»5, StpVy or New-street. between Third ant
Fourth-Greets, v/hcrt the public, upoa S?Pj' c;1 "°"'
judge for themselves, and will find it an objt& well worth
their attention. , • -*
RUM*and Gftt i* any quantity, for exportation dr nome-j h
eonfumotion, and of superior quality —bv ,
Thomas Cave- 5
P.S. RYE, MALT, BARLEY, and MKLASSES, will
be purchased, or taken irt exchange for spirits, upon appli
cation as above. Also ai.y quantity of Claret or other wine
fit (or distillation.
Auaxugh, 1796- M ' 4W •
landing,
From on board the Brig REBECCA, Dominic Divine,
Master, at Philip Care'. Wharf, and for Sale by the
Subfcrib-er, j
London Particular Madeira WINE,
In Pipes, Hoglheads and Quarter Caflcs.
There are in the above parcel 10 Hhds. of CHOICE
OLD WINE, fit for immediate use.
Robert Andrews,
Sept. 6. mw&f No; 86, So. Wharves.
New-lingland Rum,
In hogfhesds,
' Welfli's best Boston Chocolate,
—7 V__
HYSON-SKIN TEA, in quarter chests,
FOR SALE, BY
A. MARPLE V ISR.W. MORRIS,
No. 60. Dock-street.
Sept. 84- co6t.
~ John Whitefides & Co.
Have for Sale,
"Venetian Red,
Spanish Broyrn,
, White Lead, ground in oil:
Shot, No. I, 2, 3, 4> 5-
Xondon Porter, in caflcs and bottles.
Green Copperas.
Several crates of Queens Ware, in fet&s, with desert
ditto campleat.
Blistered. Steei,
German ditto.
Sept. 21- t 2 '"
' ~ To be disposed of,
'"P'HE time of a Wealthy NEGRO WOMAN, who
Ji. has between fsur and five years to fervs: She
can be recommended for her sobriety and honesty. For
particulars enquire at No. 13s, Che(nut-ftreet.
Anguft 3. ■
At a special meeting cf i the Board of Di
rectors for efiabVifhif.S ujefil Manufactures, holden
at Pater [in, July 8, 17516, '
RESOLVED, That a special meeting of the Stock
holders of the Society be called on the firlt Monday,
being the third ay of Oaober next, at Paterfon, by ten
of the clock of the fame day ; then and there to take
i«to conlidcraticm the propriety qf diiTolvmg the said
corporation, agreeably to the law >n fucn cafe made and
' provided—■ - i the Stockholders are earnettly requested
to attend the said meeting in per'fon or by proxy.-
August 27 <it 3 g,th °
For Sale,
A Complete Font of Brevier,
TT'-Nrirely nev ,'and yet unopened. The weight qf tins
Jb font is about 312 lb. It is from the
W'ilfoij'St Sons,Qlafgow, and will be fold at cost & eharg .
Also for Sale, a pair of Super Royal Chafes-
Jtmjuirp at the Office of the Gwctte cf the United
State--, 119 Chefnut-flreet.
a;.
88 ' l * 1 • • *•
. .
Washington Lottery. i
The Twcntf-fecond & Twenty-third Days' Drawing of jj.
the Wafliington Lottery, No. 2, are received, at the office
No. 134, Market-street,, where tickets may he examined.
N. B. fnlormation given where tickets in all the other (
otteries may be procured. to
Scp.eraber 23, df the
r—- S
Thomas Ryerlon T
HAS just received, by the ships Molly and Hamburgh a
Packet from Liverpool, and the Light Horse from
Bl iftol, and is now opening for sale, at his ftyre No.
177, Market-ilTeet, an extensive afibrtment 6f
Ironmctngery, Cutlery, Hardware J
and Saddlery.
The ship Caroline, now on htr paflage from Liverpool
to Philadelphia, brings the remainder of his fall impor
tation. -
N. B. At the aboye store may be had, a few elegant ,
Mahogany Cases for Table Furniture 5 also, a good as- er ,
iortment of the best kinds of Knives and Forks. !
Sept. 13. d
French Goods. **
Received by the Sally, Mitchell, from Havre-de-
Grace, A
1 1 Ladies' SHOES of all colors forts and fizei
X Ditto white and colored-Silk STOCKINGS
I Ditto Fine LAWN
I Ditto best fine CAMBRIC rr
, I Ditto Ladies'beft lhammy and Grenoble Gloves i
For Sale by THOMAS Sc JOHN KETLAND.
1 •. $ An
Wm. HOI;i>ERNJBSSE, 3
AV. 76 JJi-h Stoutt , . —
TTASixeei -edj hr --fce Wft*arrival? /."ertr. Europe and
"TXTEeTTstrindies, a >vcll fele<sicd affhrtntet of-Sitt
Mercery, Linen Drapery andiialx :- flitry Goods; rrhich |
he will fell, Wholel'ale and Retail, su the lowest terms;
: AMONGST WHICH ARE, r »l
1 Some fine India muslins embroidered with gold and frlver °'
Superfine Book, Jaconet, aad Mulmul ditto th<
Do do do do Handkerchiefs o'c
Some extra black taffei-ies.latcfttingsaiiUcolored PerGans
Bandano Handkerchiefs to
Long and Ihort Nankeens
Euglilh Mantuas of the firft quality bh
Daiualk table linen and very fine
j Silk Hosiery, /an degaut affortntent p r ,
Thead and cotton do
Umbrellas—green 51k, oil'd do. and do cleth c ;j
French cambrics, very fine
Iri(h iiinens, do. &c. &c. June 14 § ,m;
For Sale, t0
(In an excellent situation for buSnefs,)
A three-story brick Houfc and Lot of
Ground,
Eighteen feet front and twenty-five feet in depth, on c j e
the' South fide of Market near Fron*-ftr«et, now inppflef
fion of Samuel Read. r
Apply to
a Israel Pleafants, or r ;
* Charles & Joseph Pleafants.
1 13. dtf •'''
,e The Cargo of the Polacre Independent,
< CATHCART, from Alicant and Lii- b*
... VJI bon, landing at the fubferibers wharf- —
18 Pipes of Brandy
nt . lZ Bales of Spanilh wool R
3 do. of Annifeed . tl
7000 Bulhels of best Lilbon Salt
— 80 Boxes of Lemons L
For sale by #"ILLINOS «t FRANCIS. . at
' ALSO, th
1,2 Seventy Hogflieads of prime JAMAICA SUGARS,
received by the feip Dominick Terry, Capt. De Hart, th
from Kingston.
Sejit. t3- d
:E FOR SALE, b-
WINE, London particular Madeira, 4 years old, ''
>n pipes and hogsheads al
Claret, genniae old, in cases _
— Gin, in pipes, from Holland
Earthen Ware, in crates
Baflcet'Salt, in hoglheads
Shot, Nos. 6, 7, 1 and 9
Bar Le?d, Red and white dry lead r
Steel, German andßuffia, in barrels
Anchors, cables, junk, bunting, tarpolin s&nvas,
Tin plates—An invoice Stationary, by ar
THOMAS & JOHN KETLAND. p ,
July If) $ _ al
— Lottery and Brokers Office,
No. 64, South Second street. "
TICKETS m the Canal Lottery, No. a, for falc—a \
Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in .
the late lottery. .
Check Books kept for examination and registering, tor
the City of Wafh'ington, No. 2, and Pattefon Lottener.,
both of which are now drawing—information where
tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
' ert tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New-
Pors Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lot Wry, for
examination. . ...
The fubferitoer foHcits the application of the public
_ and his friends, who with to purchase or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
,v,„ &c. or to obtain money on deposit of property^
? he Wm. Blackburn.
?or Philadelphia, jlugu/l 18, 1796. mt^„.
__ " For bale, 1
The Time of a Negro Man,
den Who is a good Cook. Enquire at No. 109, South
Water-Street. , 0
ck- Sept. 13- 010 - <
ten ~IVA NT ED, ;
alee A Middle-Aged WOMAN, who can be well recom- >
raid mended, to take charge of the entire management 0$ (
and children—Such a perfor. will meet with Tunable encou
*«d ragement, and may hear of a place, by applying to the
printer of this Gazette. m wf '
I Sept. 14- 1
Dissolution of Partnerfliip.
nnHE Part •'lbip between ROBERI ANDREWS and
this 1 DAVID MEREDITH, under ihc firm of ANDREWS
of and MEREDITH, beirtg ditfolved. All prrfons who artr
S es - indebted to, or who have claims againlt the lair, houie, are
reouefted toappVy for rettlcment in the (üblcr.bcr.
rtqueltea toappvy ROBERT ANDREWS,
No 86, Su. W.harvrs,
Sept.Si 1 "gS» d '
!■!!,,
1 • For Sale,
f By J. WARDER, PARKER fef Co.
, An Invoice of Cordage, p - r|tr
ConCOiig of different sizes, from 1 z inch cables down y t(> .
tn rope of 2 inches, of different lengths: Imported in c aru
the Clip Swift, from Hull, and entitled to drawback. g|, er
Sejjt. 17. dtf RaV(
T weinty Caft.s excellent Claret and
; A few pipes choice Bordeaux Brandy, c '
For sale by
Joseph Anthony Co.
September d 6
NA N; KEEN S, : -»■
[ Of the jirjl ouatiiy, FOR SALE BT, „
' RIJ. ana JAS. POTTER.
For any quantity above Five Thpufand Piccts, a li- 4(
_ beral credit will be given., •R. & J. P.
Septembej 13. T. tf j a
70,000 Pieces Nankeens, —
Of the beji quality and on reajonahhi terms,
FOR SALE BY
-i Philip Nicklin Es 5 Co.
A-ue,uft q6. dtf I
THIS D/tr PUBLISHED,
By -J. OR.MROD, No. 41, Chefnut-ftrect,
\ Price i a i-a Ceuts) "
The President's Address 2
' To the People of the United States,
_ Announcing bis intention of retiring from public life
at 'tbe expiration of the present canftitutional term of
prefider.xt',,
Septcmltr 10. J
d public Notice is Hereby Gi-u~n y
j, the Freemen ofthcCjty rrtt Cotrnty of Pljila- The
1 (idphia, and tlie Cdunty of Delaware, that a gene- »
r»l elation will beheld on Tuelday the eleventh day h
;r of Ofiobei next. —The tle&ion to be opened between L
the hours of ten o'clock in the forenoon, and one
o'clock in the afternoon.
is When the fre;men of the City of Philadelphia, are
to meet at the State-hotffe ia the fi'd city, to elect
Six Representatives for fayl city in General Assem
bly, An
One Representative for said city in .be House of Rc- j\
prefentatives ef the United States. *
Twenty persons for members of the Common Coun
cil. _ '
Twelve pcifons for members of the Scleft Com- T ,
. mittee. , Bt
The Freemen of the City and County of Philadelphia
to cleft
One person for Governor i
f Two persons for Coroners —
One person for County Conwnifiioner
The Freemen of the County of Philadelphia, to
£ elea
Six Representatives for said County in General As- .
fembly. l\
for said county in the Hjufe of
Representatives of the United Stated.
"l'he Freemen of the City and County of Philadel
phia, aad County of Delaware, to eledl
- One Senator for the State g v
The Freemen of the township of the Northern Li
f- be'rtits are tn hold their ele&ion at the town-house in
Second Street continued, above Coats's Street.
The Freemen of the townihips of Germantewn, —
Roxborough and Bristol, are to hold their election at
the Union Srljiool Hotife in Germantown.
The Freemen of the townihips of Oxford, Byberrf, »
Lower Dublin and More-land, are to hold their elt&ion •"
■ at the house-os the late Johti tSarnfley in Bufsletown, in
the tnwnfhip of Lower Dublin. p:,
S, And the Freemen of the Diitricfi of Southwark, and
t, the townfh'.ps of MoyamcnGng, PalTyunk, and King- pj
felling, aTe to hold their eleSion at the State-House in Cc
the City Philadelphia. Di
The Con Cables of each Ward, Diftriff, #cc. are to M
hold their elefiion, in the different <ii(trif(s to choof? Ja
J their iitfpedkors for the ensuing year, and to give their A
attendance at the time atid refpeilive places.
Sept. z6. JOHN BAKER, Sheriff.
DUTY ON CARRIAGES. '
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT agreeably to an b£t of Congress of the United X
Slates of America, pafled at Philadelphia, the #Bth day
of May, X7<J6 ; laying duties on Carriages,, tor the convey
anee qf persons, and repealing the former adits for that pur- en
pose there (hall be levied, collected and paid, upon r;
all carriages for the conveyance of persons, which fiiall be w
kept by or for any person, for his or her own use, or to let
-out to hire*or stir the conveying of paffewgers, the fe'verai du
ties and Tates following, to wit. 4
For and upon every Coach, 15 dols.
!• upon every Chariot, 12 dels. £j
upon every Poil Chariot, 12 dols* ' "
, upon every Poll Chaise, 12 doJs. 01
upon every Phaeton, with or withottttop, gdols
ier '' upon every Coachee, 9 dols.
upon other Carriages, having panned work above,
wn with biinds, glafles or 9 dols.
w " upon four wheel carriages, having framed pods and
for topj withfteel fpiiogs, 6
ttbon four wheel top Carriage!, with wooden or iron
)Hc springs or jacks, 3 doks.
ck, upon curricles with tops, g dolfc
ids, upon chaises with tops, 3 dols.
upon with tops, 3 dols.
upon sulkies with tops, 3 dols.
upon other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols.
J upon two wheel carriages, with ftcel or iron springs, g
3 dols. a
Foratw! upon all other wheel carriages, « dols. p
upon every four Wheel carriage, having framed ports c
and tops, and reftiug upon wooden Cpars, 2 dols.
uth The ColleftoTS of the Revenue of the fiTft (urvev of the
Diftri&of Pennsylvania, will attend daily, until the 30th day
of September next, for the purpoft of receiving the duties on /•
Carriages, at No. 117, in Race or Safofraj ftrcet, in theCit^
of Philadelphia, at the house of Daniel S. CWir, Efq in the j
County of Montpomqry ; and at the house oi Abraham Du
>m- bois, Esq. in the County of Rucks; of which all persons pof- .
c oS feired ot i*ch Carriages are desired to take notiee.
Notice is also given, i
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign distilled fpiri
r tuous liquors,that licences will be granted to them j one li
cence for carrying on the bufjnefs of retailing of Wines, in a
tefs quantity, or in less quantities than 30 gallons—and one
licence for carrying on the bufinels of retailing Spirituous li- *
and quors in less quantities than 90 gallons, ac the lame time and
WS at the fame places, by the officers legally authoriied to grant |
> art- fucW licences.
>are WILLIAM NICHOLS, 1
lofpeftor of the Revenue of the firft purvey
. of tfce dirtri&oi P&onlylvania.
OfHcc at > 30
-f | Ph. UcMi.f i*. hi A July, 17960
FOR SAL E,
By N. and J. FRAZIER,
No.'Of, S. rrolH-lirect,
Prlfne Boston Beef, in barrels.
Georgia Cotton.
Carolina Rice and Indigo.
Sherry and i'eneriffe Wines, cxcelfcet quality-
Ravens -Duck.
tndi« 3if.daii*o*s.
J Sew in £ >iiks various cokmriw
} an-- 1 Gurrahs.
17. tts4V^«_
For sale by fublcribers,
IN PtNN-STREET,
13© quarter Clefts frtfti Hyfoh Tea ;
100 ditto do. frefh SouchOng Tea ;
3CO Boxes China, containing ffiiall tea setts of 4*
pjeces i (
400 pieces Bindanoes.
Willings, y Francis.
January 30 tt&f
FOR SALE.
PORT WINE, and
HOLLAND OlN.flf the f.rft qualities in Pipe?.
FRAUNCES and VAN REED.
Brokers and Commiflion Merchants, No. 63,50. 3d St.
Who discount approved NO TES oj hand.
N. B. An APPRENTICE Wanted.
September 14. mwf
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED, ~
; By W. YOUNG, MILLS and Son,
Corner of Secot/d and Ch.fnut Jlrcets,
= Price is 1-1 cents,
The President's AdHrcfs
- To the People of the United States,
- The rcfalution he has formed to decline bcirj coirfirfefed
the number of those cut of vv ?. choice is to
Y "be made, at the'enfuing ale&ion of a l'tefidcr.t of the
u United States.
c Sapt. ao. . w.-6
. Great is Tavvh and mult prevail.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And for fate at No- 41 Chcfnut-flreet by J. OR A? ROD,
An Apology for the Bible,
By R. Watson, d. d. f. k. s.
Bijkop of Landoff, c.
Being a complete refutation of Paine's
a Age of Reafan,
A«d ♦>e only answer to the Second Part.
Avgttic 30. dtf
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
0 By W. Young, Mills and Son,
'[Price ?o cts. in boards, 62 1-2 neatly bound]
r An Apology for the Bible,
f> In a fries of Letfers,
Addrefied to Thomas Paine, author of a book entitled
'* The Age sf Reason, fart the feconi, being a>i in
vefligation tif true and fabulous tMeologf.
Bv K. WATSON, 0. D. i ; . R. S. Lord Bi<hop of
• LandafF, and Regius ProfefTor of Divinity
n in the University of Cambridge.
Sept. 16. tu&f6_
at India Tamboured Muslins.
f n ' A J hall, handfme ajfortment cf Muslins,
in viz.
Fine tamboured Malda aud Santipere Muslins, vaiioui
id patterns and priccs.
g- Plain 6-4 Jaconet.
in Corded and cross-barred Muslin Shawls.
Ditto ditto 6-4 and 4-4 Dorcas.
to Muslin Handkerchiefs, fine and coarse.
fe Japan Muflina, and
;ir A few pieces extraordinary fine Long Cloths.
ton i.ut «v
Thomas Tingcf,
No. ill, South Third-ftrcct.
Sept H. tutf&f_
TO BE SOLD,
That Neat and Convenient House,
cd "\T7"HEREIN the fubferiber now lives. There are tour
ay W rooms on a floor : the house is two stories high
: Y" with a good garret above : under the whole is an exccll
cnt cellar, with a dry well, in which is a convenient
on framed chamber for preserving meat, butter, &c. in warm
bc weather. Attached to the house is a Stable for three
, horses, hsy-lof , .granary, and carriage-house, a wood
,U" yard paved with Hone, and a garden with foil of a fine
quality. An indisputable title will be made to the pur
chaser. For farther particulars apply to the fuhferiber in
1 Princeton, or. in her absence to Thomas D. Johnson, l.fy.
or the rev. Samxel S. Smith.
ANN WITHERSPOON.
Princetos, Aug 14. aawtO
J Plans of the city of Philadelphia,
Including the Northern Liberties and diftriit of
roB D Southwark,
PubliOied, and fold by
BENJAMIN DAVIES,
No. 68, High street,
(Price one dollar.)
THIS plan is 36 inches square, and has been en
igs, graved bv one of the firft artifls in the city, from a late
and accyrate survey. Purchasers are entitled to a pam
phlet with each plan, giving " forne account of the
ofts citv, its population, trade, government, &c.
July 19
day ~ "TAKE NOTICE.
'-r"ijJ[E fubferiber intends to make application for a re-
J[ newal of the following certificate, supposed to be
' hc loft »o the passage to England in April 171)4 ;
r" Certificate No. 1033.5, dated IJth Novcmber > J 793r
>0 for 1830 dollars and 01 cents—Six per cent, domcftic
debt, on the books of the Treasury of the United States,
in the name of the Hon. John Trevor.
,iri. ROBERT BIRD, at John Warder's.
•li Philadelphia, August 30fh, 1796. *tufcf6w
'one WANT E D,
131; " rrncKE JOURNEYMEN BUOK-BINDERS r
inc " OOD steady workmen will meet with constant em
;ri°t payment, and good wages ; by applying to JOHN
CURTIS, No. 43, North Fourth-street.
rvev Ni I}. BOOK-BINDING in all its different branches,
■ executed with neatness and di/patch. Puhlic and private
libraries repaired in the neattft andbtfl manner.
J September JO. ,t it awWanted to Rent,
A convenient, ivcll furnifhed Bed Chamber»
With a good fire-place, in an airy ind healthy part of
the city. The person whw wants to rent such a chamber,
have no board, or breakfaft only, with
thfc family occupying the house, as may be mofl agreeaWe.
Apply to the printer.
September 29. taw
Z> THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED',
By Mathew Carey, 118, Market-flreet,
A Diflertation on Slavery,
WITH A PROPOSAL '
For the Gradual Abolition of it
In the State' of Virg loia.
My 5T*. GEORGE TUCKER, ProfeJJot of Law iii
the Univcrjity of William find Mar), and one of
tbe Judges in the General Court in Virginia.
" Slavery r.ot epiy violates the Laws of Nature afcd o f
" Civil Society, it also wounds the bed forms of govcrn
" ment: in a Democracy, where all men are equal, slave
" ry S contrary to th* spirit of the conftitutibri."
f McntefquieuJ]
■ Sept. *9. J" 6
Loft this Morning,
Joseph Tnamas'snote in favor of, and indorsed by John
Morton, for twenty two-hundred dollars, dated theaßth
inft. payable at 60 days fight. All peribns are forwarned
a,gain{lreceiving thetfaid n<>te, as payment is flopped, and
it therefore can be of no use to any person but the fubferi
per, who will thanlc th: finder for delivering it to him at
No. 116 South Front Street, or if required a rcafonable re
ward will be paid.
John Morton.
9th ino 28th, »3t.
or Cork,
Ship Mary Ann,
rancis Stuart, maftef: is a %reng v good
*. ihip, fails fact, an 4 has good accommo
dations for paflenger®. Great part of her cargo feeing
Yeady, (he will fail in 10 day*. For freight °r pafTaje
apply to the # Captain on b6ard, at Mr. Shortail's wharf,
Or to Stuart Bart.
€ept. 39. dtf No. >oe, South Front-flreet.
Sales of India Good*.
The Cargo of the ihip Ganges, cap't. Tingey, from Cal
cutta and Bengal, .
CONSISTING OF
A Large ind general afTortment of Beng*! and Madras *
COTTON and SILK. GOODS.
AMONG WHICH A*l
A variety fine worked and plain Muffins,
Doreas, Also, '' J
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar, ,
In bones and bags—and BLACK 'PEPPER,
% F v or Sale by
Willings & 5
No. 11 Penn Street. ,
June 8 5
BOOKS in SHEETS, <
Late tie property of ISAAC NEALE, printer,
deceajtd, und for fait by Henry Kammjrsr,
jun. surviving partner, No. 24, North Third-
Jlreet, at 50 per cent, discount from the retail pri- 1
tes for cash or approved notes at 30 ar.d 60 days.
RURAL Economy ; or" an essay on tke practical parts of
buflwndry, Bvo. pages, 7». 6d. j ,
». Travels of Cyrus, (a handsome edition) igmo. 35a pages, (
7*. 6d.
3■ Calvary; or the death of Christ, (an ilegant edition on J
fine paper) 1 imo. 300 pages,- 71. 6s.
4. Hiflory of the Cler«V. during the Trench revolution, n
r»mo. 400 pagrs, 73. 6d. '
4. Mifecljanies, moral and inflruflive, in prose and verse,
utfto. 198 pages, 3» gd.
6. Selett fiories, from the celebrated worka of M. Berquin
umo. icß pages, 3s. gd.
'7. Power ot grace illustrated, nmo. pages, js. jd.
J); ladies litcraly companion, iß*s, 152 pages, as. gds. " V
9. Yorick's letters 10 Eliza, j&'j, 6a pages, is. 6d * c
jo* Sportsman's companion ; or an essay on {hooting, IS'a, /]
6a pages, as. 9^4.
ji. Jovial companion; or a library of good humour, mirth ' P
■and entertainment; being a ch-ice collection of modern O
songs, with an eugraved frontifpiece, 12ITH). 114 pages, J
as. gd^.
ja. Medley.; or Philadelphia fongftcr, 12mo. aia pages, P
3s. 9d. C
13. Feast of merriment; or new American jester, ,ia mo. w
132 pages, as gdj. a
J4. The new American jester; or magaetne of humour,
lamo- 96 pages, is. lodj. P
*S- Jovial foogiler, I'B'e, lid. h
,6. Qodfley's lables from .Cfojs, (in German) with tso cutj, d
jamo. 214 pijes, c.d.
Also, tie folio-winy Clildrin's BOOKS.
adorned with cuts. R
t. The £ngli(h Hermit; or the adventures of Philip Quirfc, t
8 doHars per loojn {hrets: Jj
t. Sinbad the sailor, 8 d illais do: do. .j.
3. and Christmas tales, 8do!lar» do. (Jo.
4. Goody Two Shors, « dollars do. do. 01
5. History of beads, 4 dollars do. do.
6. Hiiiory of birds. 4 dollars do. do
7. The mountain piper, 3 dollars do. do.
«. Journey from Philadelphia'io New-York. 3dol. do. do.
g. King Pippiii, 3 dollars do. do
ro. Jacky.ldle and Dicky Diligent, 3 dollars do. do.
11. New Year's gift, 1 dollars do. dp. Q
»*. I on;(a and her hirds, a dollars do. do.
13. The bird cage, 1 dollars do. do.
14. Primers (New-England) 3 dollars do. do.
H. Kammerer, jun. has also for [ale,'
large variety of METAL CUTS, handsomely
engraved, which he will difpofc of very low for cash.
Scp=- »3.
North-Carolina—Hillfoorough Difiriil. " at
COURT OF EQUITY, April term, 1796. F
John H iUcox'j heirs at lain,
VI RSUS
Archibti'.i Machine, fames Morris, and others. W
IN this cause the death of James Morris being fuggefled, g'<
as alio the deaths of Phoebe Morris and Martha Mifflin, as
other defendants—leave is given to file a bill of revivor.—
But it is ordered, that the complainants firft give security for *
the coils. On the complainants giving security for the cefts, Tc
and filing thebi'lo! revivor, it is order.V, that publica- Y
(ion be made in I'enno's Philadelphia Gazette for tlie (pace 5]
nf one week, and also that publication be made in Hodge's r
North Carolim Journal, for ihe space of two weeks, that
utilefs the defend-nis put in their answers on or before the
third day of the ensuing term, to wit, O&ober Him, a. a.
1796. that then the laid bill will be taken, rio coNriaso »£:
against the defendants lb tailing, and a decree road* accord
" I Certify, tliat the, complainants have given security for
the cods agreeably to the above : jr.d I also certify the above
• to be a lice copyof he minuses. W. WALTERS, Cleik, If
* ept. 26. and mailer in f.id court.
— . —— — OM
Mr. FRANCIS,
(Of the New Theatre) cl<
TAKES this opportunity of returning tlunka to his wc
fcholass r.nd to the public. Mr. Francis Intends,
on his return from Maryland, to open a public aca- r
deirty for dancing, upon a plan entirely new. He
flatters himfelf that his attention to his pupils hi
therto render!, any proraifes of conducing his future
Ichemes on the molt liberal and flrifleft terms, of pro
prlcty, totally ruonecifi'ary. tl)l
=T j
The MENAGERIE or tju CODS.
of ' ' J
ier, FROM TRt GERMAN OF BBRGIK. 1
ith — J
rte. OUR lap-dogs and monkeys, our squirrels and cat»> 'j
Our parrots, canaries', and larks, ,
Have furniiht araufcroent to many "old maidi,
And once in a while to young sparks.
In Heaven, where time passes heavily too, ;
When the gods have no fubjeft to talk on,
Jove calls for an eagle, keeps him in a mew,
As an old I'nglifh Baron his falcon. '
He lets it jump wp off his fofa anil chair,
And ajipits crookt beak in his cup ;
in And laugh's \vhen it pinches young Ganimed's ear,
of Or eats his ambrosia up. « t
Queen Jano, who fears from rough play a mifcap, '
of Keeps peacocks with rfinbowy tails ;
rn- And when file's difpos'il to grudge Saturn his nap,
v*- Their fcreiming or fcrceching i>*'er fails.
. Fair Venus molt willingly coa»e» the doves,
That coo, woo, and wed on her wrill;
— The sparrow her chambermaid Aglae loves, t ,
As ofteA is fondled and kift.
hn Minerva, too proud to fcem pleas'd with a trifle, t
Ith Profefles te keep her old owl,
ied "The crannies and chinks of Olympus to rifle :
nd For rats, mice, and vermin, to prowl. .
n " Apollo above flairs, a firft-rate young bleod,
at Has a stud of four galloway ponies ;
To gallsp tftem bounding on Heavtn's high road, 0
A principal part of his /tin is. a
'Ti« fabled pr known heinftruAed a swan, *
Onei'pring, to outwhiftle a b'aek bi-d, *
Which sings the Caftalian stream let upon, - b
Like any Nepolitan lack-beard. o
Lyceus in India a pair t
od Of tygers, delightful pyballM, ' t
c- And drives them about at the speed of a hare, h
ng With felf-fatisfailion unrival'd. , p
» e At Piuto's black gate, in a kennel at reft, a
r * A mafiiff so grim has his Ba:ion, ' J
That fearful of reaching the fields of the Weft,
Some ghoits ifave made choice of damnation*
But among ali the little and great, 1
That are fofter* d and pamper'd above, j .-
The ass old Silenus fcledls for his mate
Is that which most fondly I love. 0
as So quiet, to ftcidy, so guarded and flow,*
He bears no ill-will in his mind : \ ~ v
And nothing indecent as far as I know, k
. JEfcapes him before or behind. h
So fully content with himfelf and his lotd, a
> He is us'd with good humour to take a
Whatever the whimj of the moment afford, a
Be it drubbing, or raifms and cake. • a
He knows of himfelf ev'ry step of the way,
Both down to the cellar and back ; tl
A qualification, I venture to fay, n
» No batjer of laine is to lack. f,
So large is his rump, so piano his pace, ci
'Tin needless the rider to gird on ; n
. Tho' 'fuddled the god, tho' uneven the ways,
He never gets rid of his burden. t j
f. An ass such as this all my wishes would fill j 0;
O giant me, Silenus, one pray'r,
( f When thou art a dying and planning thy will,
Good father do make me thy heir 1 ?.
>, ' ■ 1. If
VJ
n LORD BALCARRES 13 GEN. MACLEOD. «
— m
The following very extraordinary letters' appear- p
:j -ed m the Supplement to -a Jamaica Gazette.— so
T» Ghjki.es Touch, Efo. bi
1 Dear fir, dc
General Macleod, on the authority of a low pri- M
vate letter, has arrogated to himfelf the right of til
calling me to the bar of the lioufe of lords. If I th
> stand charged at the bar of that august tribunal, I w
< presume it will be at the inflance of all tbe commons of
n of Great-Britain, not at the pleasure of general th
; > Macleod, who seems to have forgot the primary >i;
principles of the Britilh confutation. My public nc
charafler is never prominent, but when m
i. with that of the honourable general: I think it it wi
at least a matter of doubt which cf us may firft »p- m
' pear a culprit at the bar of that right honourable fit
house. The general has honoured me with the en- pc
names of friend and fcllow-foldier. I dined &
twice ip company with him in my whole life. I am
gratified by being clafTed as his fcltow-foldfer, bvjt G
I lament had the good fortune to ftrve one ca
hour with him in any country. The only circura- Bn
ttance the general in his kindness and friendship has flll
omitted, is the calling me his fellow-citizen. Ob
I have she honour t» be, fie
Very faithfully and fmcerely, ft t
You*B, pr
BALCARRES. vvl
— pr
Copy of a letter from the honourable major-general in
Walpole, to the earl of Balcarres, dated'ed
January it, 1796, (bring the day appointed to tet
carry iuto execution the treaty with the Ma- thi
roons.J m;
My dear lord, 4, 0
I now give the matter up ; ORly Smith, Willi- th.
ams and two boys arc here ; I fbail fend them to tig
Falmouth to-morrow. I liippofe that your lord- ad
ship will admit them to tbe terms of the treaty on fel
which they have surrendered. I fear that our hag toi
, g a S e - n egroej will not be herein time'for me to-move te.
after these rascals in the morning, and that I ipufl ftr
postpone it till Stinday ; in this cafe I shall endea- th<
vour to feducc the Maroons still to keep near os tot
Your lordship shall bear the refsit ?.» soon as posH- rit
ble. Should any fut»re parley proceed from them, in
I fliall refer them to your lordship. of
I have the honour to be, &c. &c. See. tio
"Extract of a letter from the Hob. Majoi-Gencral wi
Walpale, to the Earl of Balcarres, dated Jan. the
;• pei
The Spanisrde arc, I fear, a little out of temper, 'roc
If they cannot be kept, it would be better to avail aff<
ourselves of the breach of the treaty by the Ma- tha
roon. themselves, and move on, as nothing can be mxi
clearer than that all treaty would soon laminate, of
were they o£f th« island. >
Copy of a letter from the Right Hon. the Earl of dip
Balcarres, to General Campbell, date,
Castle Wcmyfs, Jan. 1796.
- I have great fatisfadion in a inducing to roil
that in sonft-qucnce of orders which I - J
— jor General Walp.4f, he roved forward, with a
ftrolsg column of TegUbrs, accompanied by the Spa
niards and the dogs. He had only advanced f»m
hundred yards, when a Maroon.delivered a mt.Tage
from Jahnftone. As'we had experienced m«ch iri- , I
*> sling-evasion r.nd inftncerity, it was judged cxpedi» j I
eht to move (lowly on, meiely taking the precatiti- ! j
ob of keeping the dogs in the rearoT the column, i
In ccnfequiV# e of thro arrangement of the line of j t
march, which, 1 conccive was both firm andtemoe- (
i ate,' the Maroons, to the nupber of 260, have Kir- J t
rendered- I have in my potfiffion of Frelajyney | t
Maroons, upwaids of 4 00 perluns, of whom I 1
count above 130 men. Some of the young Ma- !
t roons are still our, but 1 think we have a clear and i
happy of exiinguilhing.the embers of lhi3 '
rebellion.
BALCARR.ES. 1
' t
To Charlm Yorke., Esq. t
Dear Sir, <
Do the above papers prove those crimes and cru- •
eltiei imputed to me by the Hon. General ? Do '
they prove any forwardnefs 011 my part to lift thofc I
dogs as a dreadful inftrumeut of war ? la it of any '
weight that not a drop of blood was (hed by those I
animals ? Those dogs were brought here at the in
(lance of the Genaial AfTembly of Jamaica, who j *
lent one of their own members to procure them, c
one of tUeir own (hips to convey them, and were t
at the fele expense, It is most jjrange that the use I
which the Spaniards made of bloodi,ounda%gaiiift v
the Indian inhabitants of the Western world, (hould y
be deemed by the Hon. General a cafe parallel to ?
ours ; the Spaniard* sent them for attack and rob- n
fceiy against the peaceful proprietors of those ceun- p
tries. This island has brought dogs, (not blood- h
hounds) for their own defence, and for their own 1
protection against a banditti, who had entered i>to I
a most dangerous and ungrateful rebellion. Thcfe n
Maroon savages pofleffeda country the most trtmen~ f v
dous, into which no European had ever dared to
penetrate. fetved la<t war-wt'.h eleven nations of 11
Indian ravages. Their dtefs Ss n»t more wild and' si
fantaftic than thai of th> Maroon favagc ; but the "
one is a real character, the other is an aflumed one.
In war, a Maroon savage g#;j through his exercifc I®
with his hair plaited, his fscc besmeared, and his ®
body painted the colour of the ground or foliage ; 1«
he conceals hfhifelf ?when difc«vered, he twists &
and turns, to avoid his enemy's fire, he throws his
arms ;n the air, with wonderful agility, and when tl
a represented falls, the children rush forward,
and with their knives close the fcenc. As it suits
their views, all thiols reversed ; they change with a!
their dress their ferocity ; they afTume the most ti
mild and most infmuating manners ; they descend a>
from their mountains to the plains, and mix with w
civilized society ; the proprietors of estates dare oi
not, however, refufe them any thing.they a(k." m
Looking at the country in a military view it is m
this: those Maroons pofleffed in the rear £
of their town, of amazing ftrengih, aßd their po- b(
licy was foch as to deter all Europeans from ap- h<
proaching jt. This country is in the centre of the pt
island, and is surrounded by plains, which in the at
value of their produce and ccwifequenlial <ffeas, fp
D. employ 40 millions of British capital. To reduce p<
my argument as 1 would do a chart, by a penta- pi
ar- graph, the power of those Maroons was that of a —
— fort on an eminence, which commands the plains 1»
be»QW it; that the Maroons underflood this, is evi- re
dent ; and the bolder lifter of a bold and noted to
ri- Maroon, on thefirftdaypf the rebellion, took the cii
of title of Queen oKMontego Bay. In attacking cc
I the Maroons in their diftri#, my fine of operation lh
, I wao more than twenty milts long, the last fix miles co
ns of which was through tra%and glades, of %hich
ral the military term defile can give do adequate idea; qv
ry and notwitLdanding our unremitted exertions, Kt ed
lie no time could vve bring up-a force nearly equal in ag
e_4 number to our enemy. Delay, to my opinion, th
is would have produced as fatal efFefls, and was as ed
p- much to be dreaded by us, as a defeat. Their ' of
ile skill and ability in planning ambushes made it im- in
n " ?°.„ ,0 r *duce them by ordin«ry means; our ed
-d (kill and ability ftartcd those ambuflies by extraor- mi
m dinary measures, measures juftified in the eyes of
Ht God and man. An inftuiment of war is in one trt
nt cafe fair, and in an6ther unfair. Why do the laws ve
bend.customs of war authorise a fort to fire red hot ed
as (hot, and deny it to a (hip of war ? The reafoa is ha
obvious : the one is deferrce, audlhe ot W aggrsf. th:
fion. It is upon that principle that I used the in- th,
ft rurnent mqueftion in Jamaica. It is upon that mc
that I h.v, refufed it in St. Domingo, I th.
who offered to retmburfc to the island the ex pence [we
provided they .could g« the dogs. I reipfcd them j cle
al ( in the one cafe, betnufe territory was to be acquir- \ ma
cdj . l c ?ploy«l them in the other cafe, bee a use !im
to territory „to be maintained by eve.y possible means <ri
a- that yfource can 1 must be judged bv !mi
my a£iions ; I dtfirc no fcrecn, no (helter, but the
honor of my own mind; but I publicly avow, i n br
I,- he face of vhe world, that, if neceflity had ob- the
to ,ged me n, use these dog., I fhcuid have had e£ wi
set ;/ 1 a r r C T PI " ? * hich yurfelf must have un,
>n ieit, it a murccrer nad entered your crar*»«;
> r° k i >?>«***■■ '■<> SM-srs'L" 3
re tears, let the ftroog naves of Englishmen be un- in
ft iirung, when I relate that tRe decollatfrl h ? c
3 !o h mb r d VC 3 h d gil! " nt C r lo ° d Fltth ' " as f01 "" cu!
- tombed in his own pfr fon, and both denied the im,
One of the Maroon Chiefs !he
i, in his cmhaed date, was overf»er on r '
»f . Mr. W o
rionatc and indu'gent matter to him ; he came t* f tn
». the Maroons had taken an oath to kfllTvery whhe 3 f '
""i, , Altour ev 'd en ce cftablidtes that the Ma kn<
r roons had entered into ,his obligation. Let thk fen
f C , VC C '° fc Wi[h s melancholy truth the
that all the pnfone.s who fell into their hands werj !
e BTwrdeiedin cold blood, and the of W #
" lw ra . V,a "* s were by their fellow- wh
soldiers; but let this Island a,d the Empire « Tth
Jo.ee, that no barbarity, no aft of retaliation has me
f dugiactd the nationnl chara&cr of virtue and hI
- nianny. 1 have the honor to remain,
very faithfully a„d finewely, k?'
is ccr . ~y uurs' &c - UALCARRES. ui
jjitnmtfl, May 2, 1796.
[, „ The honourable Cham ss 2 ofke.
ip a . St. Afban's-Facet, July 5, 1795.
>m- Sir,
• a Two letters addreflerf to you,, and bearing the
in- j signature of lord" Balcar-res, ! ~ifl to be copied from
cdi- i die 14, >ya! Jamaica Gazette, and which have been
u(i- i inserted in 1- veeal of the London papcta r placc r.i
mi. *in a very delicate fit nation. I must e>her fubmi.
5 of | to severe public imputation on rriy parliamentary
ioe- conduct and general chara&er, or feem'to carry 0!,
(ur- 1 that deieftable thing, a paper war, again ft a miii
ney j tary character acrofi the Atlantic. I hope to avoid
a I both these dangers by this tingle letter to you, w! u »iti
via- his lordrtsip has chosen as the vehicle of his ;
and and that circumstances only could induce me
ihia trouble you on the present occaSon.
His lufdihip ftatea, thai on the authority of- a j
10-w piivate letter, I arrogated to myfci(, the light'
to call him to the bar of the houfy cf lords ; »n !
thtit I thereby feenicd to have forgotten the prin,
ciplcs of the britifb iSonftiturioH. The contents of
:ru- file letter, which as a member of the house of turn-
Do mons, I read in my place:.? pari of my lp«iJ
oft have been fully verified the Jamaica Gazettes, b/
iny many other piivitfe letters, and by Liis lord.Tlip l„',n
---of« felf in his publication to you.
in Spanish dags, of the ancient race, were sent for,
with Spanilh hunters, to hunt men in Jamaica, un
:u), derthe eommzad of the eail of Balcarree. I fear
ere that it is the nolile lord who will be found not to
use have understood the principles of the cor.ftiutioi r "
lull when ke arraigns my condud in parliament; fij
uld you, fir, mult with a:l your fcani? 1 *
to jtrofefilan, that every member cf the house com
,b- moils has the mod udoubted- right to movr to /ra
in- peach, or threaten to more to impeach, bfoi? tha
3 d- house of lords, any perfou or officer rmplbycd by
v/n the crown. And this accusatory privily, next l'»
Ha that of granting money, is the most vjluablc r-J
e s s mod ufeful power with which tlie comifOns are in
:n- veiled. Sometimes, the a<ftii3l impeaAment rtlay
to be neceffaiy far punifkmont and exam/le; and ccr
of tainly the fear cf u.»ayJ} S . ufeful le &r iahxy ar
rntf Tionour of the country, by way of [revention.—.
he, Wy motion concerning the barbarous jfe of i/oed
ne. hounds against men in the Jamaica wai, was c-.dc u
ifc lated to fcrve the nation in either »vay, a 3 circum
hit ttances might dircft, but certainly not with the
t ; least ideas of individual attack, or of .tie least per
ft6 funal hcftility t2? his lordship.
lis I appeal to the whole house who hetrd me, whe*
en ther I did not mention his lord/hip in terms befit ting
•d, him, and befitting me as a man and afoldicr. Hi»
its lordship has committed a very comm.n and pardon,
th able mistake, in taking the newfpaier's at authori
jft ties for speeches in parliament. J never claimed
nd any particular intimacy, friendfhip, or connexion
th witfe him. 1 certainly said that I ha;i the honour
re ot hw acquaintance, and that of hi. family • and
. m >',. nltur ? l statement that'l could have „„
H malic# against a noble and honourable fellow soldier.
ar He, therefore, has in hi, letter to y OU on this point,
0- bee. warped by passion from his usual candour. If
p. he had considered for a moment, he would have
be perceived, that however 1 mfght refpe'ft his publia
lie and private charadler, the bus.ness on which 1 wa»
s, lpeakmg, was not that occasion on.which 1 (liauld
ce peculiarly choose to boail of hk friendlhip. lie in
S * P , a ,ru ? WrmS hi,charaft " and mine into cpmrait
a —Whether, on a comparison or eantraft of our
ns lives and condua. it will he found that he or 1 have
n- rendered the mo ft fuecefsf«l and elTeniial frrv'ce,
t ? J thc na "°»' »11 "cither for him nor me to de
le cide .- perhaps I might obtain more fnffi ages in >he
ig contest than he >s now disposed to, believe—-Awd I
>n "iall nu: bs lorry that our aciionsare comparativdv
c« conndersid. * *
:h But, fir, this fuhjeft j s nnw renewed c. a public
1; qu'ftion. When 1 !irft mentioned it, Mr. Pitt fcerrr
at ed (truck wuh the b aC L.:ity of employing do„ '
in against m „ ; the whole house gav e him credit ior
n, the fenUtiong of humanity which he then dilplav
•s i ; a " d r 1,c r that though i J, dt
"" tth Vf°- ? ral f fe f^ un ' 1 tht '» did him jullice
the l. lg heft spirit of fannefs , his heart then seem.
lr ed °^ at the fame pulse that alw'ay, had ani
r- mated him iu thedebatrs on the slave trade.
n „„K n H " TT 0 " af,C ' U,C M ' - Dutld ' i ß
»c truly dented that any order had been sent f.om J.
' S V ? n T nt 10 em P lu y <%-' against men; bu: he ftat
>t ed, that »n the firft furmift *ft&t f Ul; h a mtafure'
,» had bcen adopted, hcdUcn sent to prevent
i c m P K, y«d in any bloody way • and
1. that thef. order, had beeiTfent previous to my si.si
it ; mention of the c.rcumftance lH t j, e faoufe y Qf
'■'■tlZrTf T " 0t be avvare ' but if,bey
, were lent before 1 mentioned ihe bufir.efs it la I
ti ; clear prods that I have not, iVthe opinio'n of his
- , majelly , m.mfters, ofled fmp.operly or dor.ewr
re )ujuftwe to lord Balcarres, or the afTembly of Ja
" I ™ l -n' bec,,lfc , 1 i l * 'hem for what our
y mtnifkrs reprobated and forbade *
n bra member of the present Parliament; but nh^
»- ther lam 01-not, shall bope that fom. meßibcr
Wl! ' bnn k''bc whole business of this Mjiroon war
e under coafideratwn. It involves fomc of the n-oft
is material principles of the law of nations, and die
x conduct we have observed may be quoted ngainft r.«
1- tn a rmii important way. Loi«» Balcarres, ot fiie
if compeferof his Manifefto, has employed the
1- curious logic. In the firft place, conscious of the
e imp.opnety of that mode of warfare, he transfer.
1, the whole load of blame to the General Affembiv
y of Jamaica. He fay,, » These dogs were btouoid
- here at the inllartce of the General AlTcmbly, 1
» tent one of their own members to prbcure them,
, one of their own ftips to convey them, and were
il at thefole expence." I have not the least doubt
C ol the truth ot this afTeriion, but it should 1«
- known, that at the period when these docs wete
a sent for, the island was under martial law ; that aft
, the powers ol the Assembly were for tfe time M
' » p . e ~t ! ' and tbat the Governor was (hen lecaHr
c the dictator. But if he had ne«r Leen rivrtted
- with these extraordinary powers, 1* was {„ two
- other capacities enabled ,0 prcvcut so horrible a "
s measure. He was Governor, and tLeiefoie had a
- negative on the AffemUy, j„ thc hme ni2m^.
our kijjg has a negative on the two house. of Pr.r
lament. But he had it not with the fame advar
f' ; thl " can do nt> wrong, tliongh his ad,
Mien may. A govrjßor miy do »tong, a H . w3 .mersble in hu petfon. He was alfe commander in
chiefr; I a lie whether the legislative powers of .tlie
assembly couid compel the noble Lord in .that ca- dt
pacify to employ improper weapons, or any means lai
of war contrary to the received ideas of the law of br
n&tioas ? I mull therefore contend, that it is rather a
ungenerous in the noble lord to throw the whole nc
blame on the Assembly, for it was his own aft as ov
Governor, contenting to that vote of alTembly, pc
and more especially his own aft, a*captain-general, c«
■nd commander in chief «f the froops.—But the
most extraordinary idea, in several views, which the ar
Earl has advanced, is, that it is perfectly lawful sis
and correct to use dot sin defence, and not in of- p..
■fence ; and that he himfelf would use them in Ja- th
roaica, but not in St• Domingo ; that he has ac
tually refufed to fend tbem tu St. Domingo, tho' a£
he had been offered the most advantageous subsidy ail
for these allies—and a!l this is seriously dated as
principle. Sir, at this statement I can only smile ;
it does not admit of a grave answer, and his lord- d;
ftiips illustration of it is remarkable:—Why," C
be fays, "do the laws and customs of war autho- V
rife a fort to fire red hot (hot, and teny it to a hi
ship of wari The reason is obvious ; the one is of
defence, the other aggrefiion."—l know of no o- vc
• ther convention to this effect, than that which arises to
from mutual interest. If two (hips fire hot balta ah
»t each other, they rifl-c, beyond the common dan
, gersof eombat, that of perishing miserably in the a;
"flames ; ' therefore it is for their mutual advantage tr
to abßain from that weapon. But a fort composed di
of stone and brick cannot fuffer from that fort of pt
fire, and does not scruple to bellow it on enemies in la
wood:.by parity of reason, Lord BalcarrM has
employed dogs against the Maroons, because he in
had the power to do so, and they had not. Thus p;
he has refolved'all the principles of right into that th
of power ; and has determined, as far as his ex- di
ample goes, that wherever you are enabled to com- re
*=■ mit injustice or barbarity, by means which the ene- p<
Nay do not possess, you are juftified. His lordship's hi
proportion, that " if any i.fthtfa lit?i —»c-- rr
tually torn to pieces some bf our th
be should have had exactly tj at compunction which w
yourfelf might have felt, if a murderer had enter to
ed your gates, and was torn to pieces by your house ri
dog," does merit a little observation. Had the w
planters of Jamaica sent to Newfoundlander their ol
fine breed of dogs, to England for maft;ffs, or to m
the Spaniards for bloods-hounds, for the .purpose of ti
using them ls bouse dogs againfl'robbers or mur- b
derers, who could have blamed them i If one or cl
tj*o dogs had been planted in every house as a tl
guard, it might have been ah ufeful, nay, an hu- fti
nane precaution. But is this the measure of which ai
1 complained'. 2 , «
I will ilow make a better defence for his Lord- »
(hip than he has made for himfelf. The true state
of the cafe seems to be that the Planters~of Jamai- e:
ca, as appears from their history, have long wished b
to extirpate the Marouns, ?nd that they seised the ai
occasion of the present convulsion of principle, aqd t(
the present rage against liberty excited by crur Mini a
ftry, to effect their purpose,. in which the Noble (I
Earl, in my opinion, Vnofl wrongfully joined. It
perhaps might require higher reverence £or man as d
man, greater kriowledgu of the law of nature and tl
nations, and a deeper study of the philosophy of f
government than generally falls to the {hare of our S
nobles, to have enabled his lordship to have refilled v
the Assembly and the inhabitants in this dreadful n
leheme. 1 impute not inhumanity, to him, but t
tveaintfj, in yielding to the cruelty of men who
derive their riches and cotifeqiience from the misery -
of human beings, and 1 have bis own authority for
faying that it was not his aft, but theirs.
But a charge of a much more serious comphxion
now provoked by lord Balcarres and the Affetn
bly of Jamaica, than that which I urged in the
House of Commons. They have (hewn their ad
mit at ion of Spanifb policy and mercy, by the most
exact and complete adoption of them.—Not satis- '
fied with (übduing and disarming the Maroons, a
free body of men, existing under the protection of
the Britifb crown and they have robbed
them of their lands, and have banished them from *
their native country, not individually, but in a mass; *
men, women and children. We have had debates
on the diffetent forts of exile, of which 1 think
there are three. Perfonsmay be ordered to quit a I
eountry, andTettle where they will : they may bo. i
carried to a particular place, and forced there to i
remain, but with freedom ;or they may be made 1
slaves.—These Unhappy free Maroons had no choice 1
in the place or degree of their exile, and whether
they are gone to Botany Bay, the favorite destina
tion for those who flruggle for libett), I know npt.
Jamaica in this.tranfaftion has cOrrectly copied on
\afmall scale the example of Spain in expelling the
Moors, and certainly has not the iipology of serving
the fcaufe of religion.
It seems to me to be highly worthy of inVestiga
tion by the Legislature, whether our colonial Af
ferribly and Governors have the right of commit
ting f"eb an aft. It has now been exerted in a most
unjuftifiable degree, arfd may be a precedent for the
greatest enormities. If it is allowed that our Plan
ters, met in Assembly, have a tight to condemn to
banishment classes of free blacks, or coloured men,
there will soon not exist many free people in our
islands. Bhl I rather think that the Governor and
Assembly of Jamaica have in this inttaiice greatly
exceeded their powers. '
If your really great Ancestor, the firft Lord
Hardwicke, who certainly hac not much more as
feftion for the Highlanders of Scotlaftd than Lord
Balcgrrts seems to have for the Maroons, rrfft
ved to expatriate them all like the Spanish Moors,
he wonld not have enjoyed his present fame ; but he
was too wife and two enlightened to propose fiicfi a
n.eafurc. 1 haycAnittea more than I intended on
thisfubjeft, I Chaff therefore only de. lare what mutt
be obvicjus'to every impartial man, that 1 have ne
ver stirred in this bitfincfs from any ether motive
thin my regard to iNational honour 5 that 1 Icorn
f the idea of personal malice or attack ; but that no
: refpeft to nobility, or, what weigh more with rr.'e,
individual merit, fball prevent me from performing
my duty to my country.
I"have the honor to be, Sir,
Your moll obedient bumble servant,,
NORMAN MACLEOD.
BRIDGE-TOWN, (Sarbadoes) Augull 9. j
An American vefl'el richly laden with the pro
duce of Surinam, and bound to Amsterdam, has
i lately been sent into Martinico by the Pelican n J°
brig, which arrived here yeiterday afternoon from
a cruise. Thus does the waalth of the Mynheers
now furnifh a tempting boon for the vigilance ,of
our naval commanders, who have lately had an pp
portuSty of enriching themftlves with the spoils
o"? the enemy.
One of the Dutch priies taken off Surinam and
arrived at Martinico, is said to have upwards of
sixty tons weight of coffee on board; and it ap
■ pears that they are in general very valihble, all of
them having plate, specie, See. - Jol
No further accounts have been yet received of the J°*
action mentioned in our la.l, bet ween tbc Beaulieu S' e
and La Hercules. •>
Augufl 20.
On Thursday last arrived in Carlisle bay, in 21
days express froai Rear Admiral Mann, Rationed off
Cadiz, his Majcfty's frigate Li Magicienne, capt.
William H. P. Ricketts, with dispatches of the
1 highest importance, as relating to the probability
i of a war with Spain ; which his Excellency the Go
■ ver has officially notified to the merchants of this
s town, and which we have full authority t* state as
i above.
On the arrival of the frigate, there was as usual,
: a great variety of reports in circulation, but f» little «
truth attached to many, that we fhauld find much
[ difficulty in separating those even of probable ap
pearance bad we not obtained the following particu
-1 lars from a refpeftable source :
i Lord Bute, the resident Miniflerat Madrid, hav.
: ing seen with just apprehension, the formidable pre
-1 paratiorrs of that (court, advised Gen. O'Hara of
these hostile dispositions, who has immediately a
dopted every meafurt to place the important fort
• refs (Gibraltar) under hi# command, in such a ref
peftable state, as to preclude a surprize, and enable
i liitn to deferd it with effect. A Spanish flset of
■ etghtrhe-4fne and fix frigates having about
, the some time, formed a junction with Richery,
1 who has been frrking blockaded at Cadii, ir.aking
together 13 of the line and 6 frigates, were prepa
• ring to fail the firft opportunity for St., Domingo,
; with an intention as is conceived, of calling at some p t
r of the Windward Islands, or probably to invell Ja
) maica, having 5000 troops on board ; but that ae- a||
stive and indefatigable rear-admiral Mann, p
being apprized of their inter.!ion of failing, more
r closely blockaded the port, yet iliil apprehending
i the probable confequcnces to the Welt-Indies,
- (hould so fct midable a f&rce elude his viirilance and (o
1 arrive here unexpectedly, dispatched la Magicienne
w iih theCs important accounts, and from hence she
- will proceed to Jamaica with similar advices
: Among the various repoits on the arrival jof the
- express, tf»e moll promjnent are that Leghorn has
1 been surrendered to the French, and Corsica evacu
: ated by the English ; and already if we gi*e credit
1 to the aceounts, has our naval force in the Meditter
anean made fevtral valuable captures of Spanish ot
e (hips- 7
t From the general complexion of affairs, f-arce a
s doubt can now be entertained ofa war with Spain ;
i theTelilefs disposition of the governing power in
f France, has been long aiming at this object, and j' c
r Spain unequal to combat with the internal factions f ;
i which threaten the exifteace of her arbitrary power fj 1
il may at length be (Vimpelled to enter into foreign hos
t tilities to preserve her domestic tranquility.
y W
7~> 01
,r Philadelphia, ( - c
n d
( THURSDAY EVENING, SEFTEMBER 29, C
e k
|. Extra?- of a letter from Cbarlefion, S. C. Sept. 12.
ft "1 have now the pleasure of informing yon, that the *
B . weather here is getting cooler, aßd the city more f<
a vv
d The Elteters of Chester county are requested
to meet at Hunt Downing's, in East-Cain tewnfhip, on
.. Friday, the 7th day of Oflober ensuing, to form*a
*' ticket for the ensuing eleilion.
September n, 1796.
a *a* The Inhabitants of the county'of Chester are
>o. requested to meet at the house of Abraham Marshall,
to in the township of Weft-Bradford, in said county, en
; e the 7th day of Otfober next, in order to consult on a
■ e general ticket for the ensuing election.
September 14, 1796.
a * At a Meeting of a number of citizens, at Mr. Dunwoo
t. dy's Inn, 011 the 21ft inffant, it was unanimously
>n agreed so recommend to their feliowcitizens, the
ie following tickets, for their support at the next Elff
,cr tion.
0 Congrefi, ti
Edward Tilgliman.
a " Governor,
•• Thomas Mifflin,
t- 'Senator,
ill NathanielNewlin, (of Delaware County.)
ie Affcmbly, .. • a
n George Latimer,
Laurence Scckel,
0 Jacoli Ililtzhtimer, , 1
n > Robert Wain,
ir Francis Gurney, *'''
id Joseph Ball, £
]y • By order of the meeting, v
LEVI HOLLINGSWOItTH, Chairman. ,
r( j M* KEPPELE, Secretary.'
At a numerous and fefpeilable meeting of the citi7erts 1
of Montgomery county, convened at tfee Coun-houfe
®- in Norrillown, on Saturday the 24th of September,
s, 1.79$ ; for the purpose of framing a ticket for the en- f
fie suing general ele&ion. r
a FRANCIS SH'AINE, Esq. in the Cbfiir. .
The following citizens were agreed upon—for j
• ' Governor,
Thomas Mifflin-.
c * ' Congrefi,
ve Samuel Sitgreaves, Peter Muhlenberg,
rn Senator,
10 William Chapman.
e> /Ifjcinbly,
Cadwallader JFknjamin Brooke,
Nathaniel Bellew, Henry Pawling. t
Commiffoner,
Samuel Maulfby. '
Eublifbed hy order 'f the meeting. " c
ANDREW NAIINY, Stc'y. 1
1 \ -*
1 AN a aumefo :s adjourned meeting of citizeas off
Philadelphia, held at Litle'j School-Hoiife on the 17th 0 f
September, 1796, the tickets were unant
moujly agreed to be supported at, the ensuing general r
eledlkin. 0
Thomas Lei?h« in the Chair.
_i. far
Governor, ' ln
Thomas Mifflin. Fr
Congrejj, XJi
John S win wick.
AJJimbly, t j li
John Stainmetz, Samuel Wetherill, Ten. r
Charles Pettit, Matthew Lawler,
Joseph B M'Kean, Jacob L. Swyler,
SeleS Council,
John Connelly, Joseph Wetherill, fill
John Dunlap, William Barton, \V
Stephen Gii«trd, Isaac Pennington, [ )r j
Win. Van Pitul, Robert Smith, merchant, p 0
James Sarfliwood, Math-w Curey,
David Jackfonj Abraham Shoemaker.
' Common Council,
Andrew Guyer, bookbinder ve '
Caspar Morris, brewer Ei
Anthony Cuthbert, mail-maker
William Richards, breechcs-maker
John Porter, pfeyfician
Thomas Lei per tobacconist ' ,
John LetAworth, chainulker,
Jacob Bright, baker
Godfrey Gcbler, blacksmith * «]
Andrew Kennedy, foap-l»>iler Sa
t Mathias Sadler, carpenter flu
. Benjamin coppersmith
Benj. Franklin Bache, printer
Elifha Gordon, (hoemaker
William Ku(h, carver c
John Pusdon, fliopkecper v 1
John Barker, taylor g&
Benjamin Taylor, bricklayer th
Benjamin Brias, tanner and currier s ol
James Traqilair # stone-cutter
(Signed) Benj. Franklin Bachc, Sec'ry.
BY THIS DAY's MAIL. g
SCHENECTADY, Seotember 20.
INSTALLATION. th
x On Thursday thr 13th inft. the Presbytery cf
Albany met in this town for the purpose of instal
ling the Rev. Robert Smith, late of New-Caflle
Piefbytery, Pennsylvania, Paitor of the Prelbyte- *
Han church in Schene&ady. The solemnity was
attended by a and large liflembly. The
1 F.cv. John Warfurd, of Salem, preached a sermon £ r
Upon the orcaCon from Deut. xxxii. 47. Th? tu
Rev. Dr. Smith prcfided »nd gave the charge to
| the minister—and the R£v. ( Mr. Sturgea,' of Char!- fa
ton, addrefled the charge to the pe»pl«. Lail
Lord's day, Mr. Smith delivered his inaugural fer
trion, from 2 Cor. vi. !. •' We then, as woikers
together with him, beseech you also, that ye re
ceivenot the grace of God in vain."
ANNAPOLIS, September 32.
Monday la(t being the day appointed by thecon
ftitution atid form of government for the meeting
, of th'eelefto;6 of the Senate, they accordingly met **
on that day, and adjournad "frt.m day until yefter
, day, when the folllowing gentlemen attended, viz.
Levin Witfßsß, Esq. President.
, Philip Ford, Edmund Plowden, William Spencer
] Jeremiah T. Chale, William Harwood, Thomas
s Parian, John Chefley, $enry H, Chapman, Wm.
r H. M'FherfQn ) Charle» Ridgely of Hamp'on, Chj. "
Ridgely of Wm. John Roberts, Willidm Hayward,
Littleton Dennis, John E. Gift, Mofcs Lecompte,
Phil.o Thomas, William Alexander, Robert 80-,
i wic, David Craufurd, Philip B. Ke«', James O'Bry
on, William Purnell, Levin Handy, John M'Pher
fon, Jufhua Dojjfev, Abraham Jarrett, John M't- "
chell, James Wincheller, Adam Ott, Charles o
Ogle, Francis Deakins, Fhomas Turner, John Sim t
kins, David Lynn. - a
The Ele&ors proceeded to ballot for Senators, f
le and on Uiiking the ballots it appeared, that the
c following gentleman had a majority of votes, and 1
were accordingly declared fluly eledled, to wit: 0
For the 'Vejltrn Shore. 1
J Charles Carroll, of Carrollton,
n John Eager Howard, c
a John Campbell, £
John Graliame, 4
Charles Ridgely, of Hampton, , a
Uriah Fotrett, 1
j® William H. Dorfey, t
tn John Thomas,
a Forthe Eajlern-Shore, (
Hammond, (
Littleton Dennis, f
John S. Purnell,
®" v " William P?rry. f
James Hollyday, 1
James Lloyd,
John Chefleyand Robert Smith having an equal s
number of ballots on the firlt vote, the' Eledlors
balloted a feeond time, when John Chtfley had a i
majority, and wa» declared duly elected.
BALTIMORE, September 17. '
) Wc are informed, that on Sunday morning lift,
about 6 o'clock, a fire broke out in an out house I
belonging Adam King, in the upper part '
of George- r l own, which did confulerable damage
before the flames could be extinguiihed—twelve '
houses were consumed, including store-houses, with 1
great part of their contents—fortunately no lives
were loft. We are not yet able to state further '
particulars, having enly a verbal account,
y* We were last evening favoured with the follow
ing decree of the French government ef Aux
|-e Cayes, iu the cafe of an American vessel captured
T( on her passage lo a Britifti port. It may convey
n- some interesting infoimation to many of our com- 5
merc"ial u'aders. . ]
General Liberty. French Republic.
Extrad from the registry »f deliberations of the 1
delegation sent into the fout"h and fouth-eafl parts '
ofSt.Dpmingo, by theComfuiffary of the French '
gorernmeiit of the windward idands.
CAYES—Seffion of 9th Thermidor, 4th year
of the French icpubhc, one and incliviiible ,
Prefidenry of citizen Kerverfeau.
CONSIDERING that the ports and towns ol ;
St, Domingo, in which the Englilh flag- is flying,
have been deliveted up by rebellious Frenchmen—
ond that the said ports and towns are in a state of
rebelliou anii feege;
Considering tf.st itis an infringement of tie Jay *
of t6 carry fucc«r«, provisions and wa: -
like ltoies, into the said ports sad towns, in z state
of siege and revolt : »
ConGdering that the United States aflsd in the
fame manner in the war they fupportej fur t!ie : r
honourable independence, and that »hey did not fee
French vc(Tels carry succor, to the enemies of the
United. States, and into places which belmigeJ to
them ; aid that it is contrary to the pttmion of
the American government, that provisions and
supplies (hojld be carried into the enemy's ports ia
St. Domingo :
Seeing that the fact is proved, and that it re.
fait, as well from the declaration of c?ptain Willis
Whitfield, as from papers fo»nd on board, thirtiic'
brig ltlir.a and her iwrgo were deftinrd to fupju'y
Pftrt-au-Pifnce, occupied by the F.nglifli, & FrencU
rebels, armed against the republic ;
Seeinj that ilo proof !ia«t been furnished that the
veflTet Eliza and cargo were not .configncd t» an
Englifhmau at Port an-Princc-—
TH6 DShRGXnON DEfKSSS,
Article I. The bug Eliza and her cargo, deflio*
ed for are declated good prize, for
the benefit of the captors.
Art. IL, The French privateers, the Scaflower,
captain Barthelemy Aubert ; the Vi&ory, captain
Sabin ; and the Flying-Fifti, captain John Tcyfieo
(hall divide among them, the officers and crews of
the said three privateers, agreeably to their conven*
tioti, the price of the sale of tfie btig E'ua and
' her cargo.
Art. 111. The officer of administration at Leo
gane is charged to hold himfelf aecountable to the
three privateers, for the amount of flour purchased v
for administration, he ref-rving to hirofelf the
power of making such terms as h« can conveniently
comply with.
Conformably to the decree of the commission tfjf
government, of the 29th Prairidflaft, nothing (hafi
be retained, nor any exptnees paid, on the amount
of sale* of the Eliza andca>go.
The ordonnator is charged with the execution ef
r the present decree.
Signed, KERVERSEAX,
I.E BORGUE, and
: KEY.
CHARLESTON, Sept. 3.
3 The Intendant with pleafvire announces to the
public, that the Medical Society, at their meeting
on the lad night, declared it as their general con
current opinion, that the number of »afes of the
' present prevailing epidemic fever, h?.s very conjidt'.
-rally diminjhed within the last seven days.
By order of the Intendant,
P. BOUNETHEAU, C. C.
s
GJZETTS OF THE VNiTSD STATES MARINE LIST.
*
%. -
PHILADELPHIA September 29. t
{ ARRIVED. Dfv>
t Sloop Barnett, ' ' Nantucket 15
Commerce, Oiborn, New-York 6
Schr. John, Coffin, " Boston 24
Sally Gibbs, Frenchman's Biy 24
r Maris, Merchant, Viigi is 4
3 Citizen, Ecovel, Norfolk 8
* Arrived at th( fyort.
N Brig Olive Branch, Eiliendge, . Surinam 29
I Liberty, Murphy, Havanna
CLEARED,
Brig Susanna, Wallace, Rochtlf
<• Boston,' September 23.
r- A letter from Jamaica of At/gust &, mentions,
t- " Yeflorday the Sampfoa 64 gun (hip, trrived with
rs out either bowfptit, fotemaft, or mammaft, and o
n riierwife much damaged—supposed (he fell foul of
a 74 gun (hip at sea She brought 1:1 a French
s, frigate of 44gUns. She was taken to » indward."
le Tuesday airived, fch'r Peter, Chadwick, Cape,
d Francois, 20 days. Left there, captain Godfrey
of Piovidence; Earl, of Newport; Rogers, of
Boston, and Bowen of Newbury.Port.
Wednelday arrived, fch'r Augusta, Bennett, Bay
onae, France, 44 days. Left there, fch'r Miles
Standifh, Carver, of Plymouth. Angult 18 lat.
45. long. 25. fpokea French frigate, three other*
and a 74, in company—said they were bound for
N. York ; but supposed they were cruising to in
tercept the Jamaica fleet, rj.
At Havre, July ii, Capts. Powers, gell, Cha.
fen and Pro&or, of Boston ; Ropes, Salem ;
Green, Portsmouth - f "Unioa, Pitcher, New-Bed
ford.
The Industry, Fletcher, 28 days f-ora Norfolk,
for Havre-de-Graee, was spoke July 27, lat. 46,
12, long. 22, 51.
A Kenneheck ve(Tel was at Hull 7 1 days since,
lal and was to fail for Boston.
its A (hip from Boston, for St. Bartholomews, was
a spoke September 1, lat. 36, 14, long. 65.
The Venus, Sprague, 24 days from WifcaflVt,
for Liverpool, was i'poke July 22, lat. 47, long. 14
The Nymph, Webb, 20 days from Philadel
,fe phia, for Bourdtaux, was spoke Augufl 26, lat.
lrt 29, 11, long. 56.
g C Ship Cecilia, Andrews, of Bolton, 17 daya
Te from Bartholomews, for Falmouth, Augjft 10,
th Jat * 3 6 > 4 8 » lo "g- 5 6 *
- cs Arrivals at New York, Sept. 28.
icr Eliza, Wilson, Loiidon 59 days
Dublin Packet, Clay, Rhinebeck, 9 do.
w- ' Summerset, Clarke, Africa, 62 do.
|Jt . Yeflerday arrived at this port, in 59 day, from the
cd Downs, brig Eliza, capt. V, ibon. Ship Fair Ameri
can, capt. Co.idridgc, :« led from tk« IJov n» in torr,-
pany with the Eliza, —as did also the Jenny, Chauncey
who arrived twelve days ago.
Extract of a letter dated St. Thomas, August 31,1796.
4 * 1 his serves to inform you Capt. Thomas R. Lo
be ring in the schooner Milton, arrived herein 12 days
rU from New-York, and fails this day for Cu'rracoa. By
pjj an arrival we have from Curracoa, we are assured ali is
in peace and quietness in that place, under the new gi -
vernment, that has taken place, as theoppofers of that
!:lr government, wc arc informed, were obliged to have
the island, and have failed for your place. Yesterday
i'ailed from thistwo French mqn of war, a 64 and a 40,
ot also for Curracoa."
ig, Arrivals at Baltimore, Sept. 24.
.— Ship Aurora, Johullon, Bretnr"'-
of Brig Minerva, Fry, Havana
Srfir. Hannah, Philips," Leogf. ev . >.'• *-5 " '"*•* ; v
For Sale,
A Three story BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut
street, between Front and Second Greets, in which £J a
Meifrs. James Calbraith &Co. have for many year* (and
now do) carried on mifinefs. „
Poficffion ".'ill be given in one month, or sooner.
for terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or -p*
HECTOR CALBRAITH. jj
April ai, 1
RICKETS' s ]
Amphitheatre of Arts.
TO THE PUBLIC.
IMPRESSED with the most lively gratitude for past
favours, Mr. Rickets returns his most sincere! thank#
to tke people of Philadelphia, for the kind patronage apd
liberal encouragement they have hitherto {hewn him, _
and again solicits their attention for the ensuing feafoß.
He takes this opportunity of informing the. Ladies and
Gentlemen of this City, that the Amphitheatre has un
<lergc«e a complete and pleasing alteration since the last jl
i'eafon, (on an original plan of his own) so as to make it cei
perfectly convenient for ,a numerous audience; and or
namented, in the most superb style, with SCENERY, I
DRESSES and DECORATIONS, entirely new.
He assures the«puMic, that no pains nor expense what
ever have been spared, to render it one of the most beau
tiful plaaes of public amusement of the kind here or in
any part of Europe. 2
The public are further informed, that the Amphitheatre ic
of Arts will open on the evening of the 10th of O&obcr,
1796. The particulars of the entertainments of that —
evening wili be announced in the different daily publica- z:
tions. J- B* R. 4c
September 28. eo * —
- ■ ■ ■ —— ft.
Valuable Real "Estate, *
Forfait at duftion by Cafptr of Hamburg, er
late the property of fames and IViUiam K'tnnear.
For sale by public auilion,on the 9th day of November
next ensuing, at the sign of Gen. Waftiington, Wood s
tavern, borough of Reading, Berks county,the fallow- 1
ing real eftate,viz.
X TRACT of hod containing 465 acres with cC
1= allowance for roads, called the Purchase, ™
fiuated in Brunswick township, Berks county, patented,
18th or Jan. 1788 This trad, of which a!»out aj acres -
' are cleared, is of good foil, situated on the T or
Little Schuylkill, well watered and timbered, on which is
ere&ed a good log dwelling house and stable.
No. a. A tra& of unimproved hnd, containing "584 a
fres, with allowance, &c. called Hopewell, patented z3tk
Odober, 1790, situated in Ikunfwick townfltip, Berks
iounty, foil good.
No. 3. A'traA of unimproved J and,'containing 370 a
cres with allowance, &c. called Hilifourg, patented 28th t
October 1790, situation, &c. as N0,2. 1
No. 4. A tra£t wfunimproved land, containing 38k a- rj.
eres, with allowance, &c. patented iSth of OAober, 1786, -
situation, &c, as No. 2 and 3.
No. 5. A tra& ps land,- containing 268 acres, and 57
yerches, with allowance, &c. situated in Brttrifwicktown- t(
{hip, Berks county, on Tomagua, or little Schuylkill, 5, R
miles above the town «f Humburg, on which is ere&ed a
well finifhed two story fquaredlog dwelling house, 22
feet by 35, within the diftarice of icq perchfcsfram a forge, Q
with the advantage of a ferry and public house; these ad- v
vantages render this tr .ol very valuable.
No 16. A town lot In Hamburg, enclosed witfi a pest t
and rail, or board fence, containing in front, 60 feet, and a
in depth 180 feet, fubjed t© a ground rent of 7/6 per an
num. 4 t
No, 17. A town lot in Hamburg, enclosed as no 10, to
which it adjoins, being of the fame dimcnfions, and fuojeft a
to the fame ground rent, on which is eteiftfcd a log stable, j,
16 by 1$ feet _ X
Nc. 18 s . A town lot in- Hr.nibnrg, adjoining to No. 17,
a corner lot, fronting on Main and Schuylkill streets, di
mensions the fahie as No. J6 and above defcrib<*d, tub- t
je& to ic/o per annum ground tent. On this lot isee- r
efteda large 2 story dwelling house, 45 ffcut on
street, by 34 feet in depth on Schuylkill street, pleasantly £
and advantageously situated for a ftorc. • \
N. B. The above described three town lots will be ib.d
separately or together, as may best suit the pureh iers.
Conditions of iale—One third of the pUrchufe moftC? •
to be paid to thefubfcribere, or either of them in Philade.-
/ phia, at or befarethe expiration month frem the
day of sale, when a deed of conveyance Will be executed ;
the residue payable in 2 equal payments, at 6 and 12 moni!.>
with intereft,the payment whereof to be fccuVcd by mort
gage on the premises.
fames Htn'derf on, . T Aflignees t*> (
Fredtrich MontmolTirii I the eftkte of j
Thomas Rogers, ( J a . mes
Jofcph D. Drinker, J Kmneat.
Se-ptembcf 26. m^th.
Philip Nicklin & Co.
HAVE FOR SALE,
Souchong v
Hyson Skirt /
Yeunj Hyson > FRESti IEAL
Hyson and . \
Tmperial
Yellow Nankeens
China Ware, aflorted in BoXci anddhefts
Qui~kfilver
Bandinno Handkerchiefs of excelknt qua'i*y in
chests
London Market MADEIRA WIN1 1 .
London particular vin pipes, hogftteads, &
' . New-York Market J quarter calks
Tenerifle Wine in pipes and hogfLeads
• * Sugar Candy by the Box
Sail Canva,s No. I a 8
JLead in fhetts »
] Calks of Cutlery afiorted
A few chests of Manchester Goods, alTortcd thick
sets, cords, striped Nankeens, &c.
\ Small.packages of black sewing-silks
i! Tierces Virginia Snake-root*
t Nails afTorted in calks
July 18 jntw&f
■ ' ■■ ■! .
Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE.
Na. 6? South Third street, opposite the national hexV Eank.
SBAML'EL, M and JOHN VAti REED,
have entered into under the nrm of
FR'.MJI*CES Sc VAN REF.b, in the Wmefs of Brokers.
Conveyancers and Commiftion merchants. They Buy and
fell on cornmillion every Ipecics of liock,' notes 'of hand,
bills of exchar.ge, houses anct landsj See.
Money procilre,d on depoßts, &c. &c. all kinds c'
writings in the conveyancing line, done -with r.eatnefs and
dispatch ; accounts adjusted, and bocks fettled, in the
jnoft correct naar.ner. Conilant attendance will be given.
They solicit a (hare of the public favor; tile 1 / are deter
mined to endeavour tedelerye it.
N. C. The utmoit fecrqey observed.
SAiVJUKL M. rRAUNCES,
JOHa VA{»' Kttfa.
Phi}i.d. A-Jgufi 17, J 796. m&wtf
IV A A' T E D ,
rfn APPRENTICE to \/]i Pr 'irt'tng Bt/Jiveft.
Eft e.uirc attVviS Office, Aiig. 9
JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co.
t No. 8, CHESNUr STREET,
s Have Imported in the 1; *•- vetTels from Europe, &c. j
d AND HAVE 10R SALE, dy
A geHeral assortment of GOODS, suitable to the season— A?
Amongst whicl^are,
BROAD and narrow CLOTHS, <
Plain and twill*d COATINGS, —
Rose striped and point BLANKETS,
FLANNELS and BAISES,
HATS in cases,
IRISH LINENS, ' in
INDIA GOODS, generally,
A Invoicp of IRONMONGERY,.
Comprifing-a capital assortment to open a ftorc — mc 5 C
Thirty Casks of NAILS. This invoice will be fold
entire on very advantageous terms. —
September 20■ , ■
nd Lottery S
n- TT'OR raifinj fixthonland fix hundred and Cxty-feven
aft x dollars and fifty cents, by a deduction of fifteen per
:it cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a prize. v;z
>r- I Prize of jooo dollarsis dollars ;00,0
'T, 1 1000 1000
l 500 J°° •
at- 5 aoo ioco
iu- ao 100 aooo
ill 99 50 495°
aoo 2j s°?o
tre sooo 10 ao,ooo
<cr, 5 Last drawn numbers of icco dollars tach, J coo
iiat ———^'—
ca- 133 a I'rizei. 44,4J0
4018 Blanks. '
— 63J0 Tickets at Se-;en Dollafs each) 44,45°
» Ey order of the DtTciStors of the Society for cftoblifti
ing IHeful ManufaSures, the fuperiotendauts of the Pat
erfoa Lottery have requested the Managers to offer the _
foregoing S.heme to the public, and have directed them
to rafui'-d the money to thole perfofis who have purihafed
j> s in the fotmer Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
lW _ in this Lottery. •
The lottery has actually commenced drawing, and will
continue until finilhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
jf e may h~ seen at the. office ot William Blackburn, No. 64 -j
south Second street, whb "will where tick- t :
rC 3 ets ft-.ay be procwred.
Dated this 17th of June, 1796. _
l" "J. N- GUMMING, ") 3
JACOB H. HARDENBERG, > Managers.
a . JONATHAN RHEA, 3 v
Stk ' atfeo 1
rlcs 1 f
; a - Samuel Rj char del,
Bth p "ESiPECTFULLY informs the Genflemen t
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY 1
'JT TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEE HOUSE in the "
■ city of Philadelphia. *
The Subscription Room wiH be fufiiifhed with all the
57 daily papers publilhed in Philadelphia, New-York, Bqf- 1
| vn " ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principal coin
! mcrcial cities of Europe—They will be ragularly filed
* and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
lx Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety '
r K'j of French Liquors; together with the tifual refrefhihefits, '
ac *" will at all times be procurod at the bar. '
Gentlemen may depend on being accofapiodated With
P e ® the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the most 1
ana approved Malt Liquors from London and other breweries.
an " The Larder will befupplied with the prime and carlieft :
productions of the Season, (
Large and small Parties, or single Oehtkmen, may be 1
j ei^; accommodated With Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hours most convenient to thiimfelves—a cold Collation is j
regularly k«pf for convenUr.cy, the Bill of Fare to be had
'! ?' it thu bar.
. The Lodging Rooms wfi! be completely forniftied, and
iub " the utnlaft attention paid to deanlinels, and every other ;
' c f" rcquifite. , •
lam gy. RicuAa&ir willAehappy to receive, and
nt 'y execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at '
„;, large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfelf that nothing oti his part lhall be wanting to pfe« '
fervethat jfati'oftagi; with whi«h feehasbeen so distinguish- '
:> ' lC 7 ingly honored.
"tr" Philadelphia, April 15. »wf
, the
intnl Treasury of the United States.
,ort " VjOTICE is hereby given to ail persons who are or
IN may be Creditors of the United States, Tor any sums
es to of the Fur.iti Oil, or Stock, bearing a prtfcAt inlcrejt os-six
l of ter centum per annum.
Wm. ,ft, That purfuantto anAcJ of Congress pafled on the
jgth day of Apsil, 1796, intitlcd an att in addition 16 an
aA, intituled " An adt making futthor provifioii tor the
support of ipublic credit, and for the redemption «f the
—— public debt," the faiddebtor ftockwillbe reimbursed and
oaid in manner following, to wit. " First, by dividends
" to be mide on the'lait days of March, June and ieptem
" ber for the prcfc'rtt year, and from the year one thtmf: nd
" seven hundred ifld ninety-feveii, to the year one thou
" sand eight hundred & eighteen iCelufive, ut the rate of
" one/nd one half per centum upon the original capital.
" Secondly,by. dividends to be made on'th^laft day of
" December lor the present year, and fto'tn the yeas one
" thousand seven hundred and nincty-feven, to the year
" one thoufandeight hundfed and feventecn inclusive, at
« the rate of three and one half per centum upon the ori
" ginal capital; and by a dividend to be mile on the last
« tJa* Of Dtcember, in the year one thoufjnd eight hun
fy '» « -Jred and eighteen, of filch l'tiai, as will be then 'ade
" quate, acc&tdiHg to the coutrafl, for 'the linaj redemp-
« tio'n of the laid stock." .
S, & ii. All diftiniSion bctwfcen payments on account of
Interefl and Principal being thus abolilhed by the establish
ment of the permanent rule of reimbursement abous de
scribed, it has become necefriry to vary accardiogly the
powers of attorney for receiving dividends; the public
creditors will therefore observe th*t the following form
is eftabli<hed for ill poWefs of attorney which may be
hick- eranted after the due promulgation ot this notice, viz.
KNOW ALL MEN BY "THESS PRESENTS, that
I c f
do main rcrflitute ini cf-fjnnt
if CTV true utiiJ luiuful Ai
r ' torney,fm me, an Jin rjy nante, to t'eccive tbr dividends tviiih arc,
or Jball he payable according to la-w,on tbe (here dfiferibing the
— jianding in nt*J name i/t tbe boots of (here describing the
book< of the Treasury or the Commifliouer of Loans,
where the flock is credited) from (here lr.fcrt the com
mencement and expiration of time for which the power of
Eank. Ittorfcey is to coatinire) initb po-uer afo at attorney ur ctt.r-
EED, u „dcr bi m ,fortbrt purpofc to make andfubftilute,andto do all
•m of lawful aßs requij *cfor effecting berAy ratify inland
okers. : ,„Jirming ail that myfaid Attorney or bisfubftiUsleJbali lawful- ,
y and ly do, by virtue bcreoj.
hand, /„ ~,Vilnefs hereof I have hereunto set vty Hand and Seal the
day ps in tbe tear
ids c' Sealldand Dftiu-.rci
fsand in prefena^oj,
n the K£ I T KNOWN, that an the day of
given. efcr'c tncperfortitlly came
deter- within named and tbe above letter of attorney Übe
bis ail and deed.
In teftimhny whereof I hereunto fit my Hand and affix.-
ES, Seal tbe day andyear la(l aforefaid.
ftiveh und.-r my Hand at Philadelphia, this twen
f tieth day of July 1796, pursuant to directions
from the Secretary of the Treasury
SAMUEL MEREDITH,
•fa. of tke United States.
July*:. ■uWltlJ.
Turks-Hland Salt,
FOR SjiL E,
Per the ship American, Capt. Shallcr°f»—Wi» be rev X
,{y to discharge at Pine-street wharf on the »7& » n "- J
.Apply so Hollingfworth '£«•
Sept. 23. . ——
A Mariufa&ory £dR SAL:'-
A Valuable SO ' P and CANDLE. Man » f^ y ' l
in a convenient P art l^c cl^.; S - lt Q c .^ c
on an entirely original cor.ftru&wn, and j*" 1 P C ifons
materials and mav be ftt to work nmnic i- t y* -
who wife to purchafc.are requcfted'to apply at " 0 2? 3'
South Second $i reet. t t f <f
September 1'!. • ■ —
City cf Wa&ingtoti.
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11,
, FOR THE IMPROVEMENT 0 t THE
Federal city.
A magrffficeiit ) 20,000 clollfcrs, & i 50,060
dwelling-holife, 3 : 30,000, are ) q
1 ditto 15,000 & ca|Jt 25,000 40,000
1 ditto i5,0d0 & cash 15,000 30,600
3 1 ditto 10,000 & cash 10,600 20,000 J
0 I ditto 5,000 & cafe 5,000 . 10,000 n
o . 1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5»00b 10,utf©
0 J cadi prize of 10,000 c!
0 2 dfe. j,OOO each, are « 10,000 t:
10 db. 1,000 - - 10,000
0 26 do. 500 • * 10,000
"do do. 100 - • ro,oot>
100 do. 50 10,000
0 400 do. 25 - - - 10,000
1,000 do. 10 i 28,000
15,000 tfo. 10 ' " * 150,000
e _____
11 16,735 Prizes.
*' 31,261 Blanks.
:s
H 50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollar*, 400,000
N. B. To favour those who may take a quantify of (
'' Tickefs,the prize of 40,ooodoljars willbethe iAST drawn .
'■ ticket, iftd the 3Q,ooothe last Kut one :
And approved laotvs, fecurtrigpayroent hi either motley -
or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be received Terr
any number not less than 30 tickets.
®" This Lottery Will afford an elegant specimen of che jSri
vate buildings to be ere&ed in the City of Washington—
Two beautiful defigrs are already fele&ed for the entire
~~ fronts on two of the public fquafres; from these prawings
it ispropofed to erect two ccntreand four corner buildings,
" as soon as poilible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
n them, whefi cpmpiete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
y tile manherdefcribed in the febeme for the Hotel Lottery.
e A nett deduQion of five per cifct. will be made to defray "
the necefiary expeftfes of printing, &c. and the surplus
le will be made a part of the fund intended for the National c
r_ tJniverfity, to be creeled within the city of Washington. i a
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are ; 3
,'j fold Mf.—Thf raoney prizes will be payable in thirty days ! I
after it is finifhjd ; and any prises for width fortunate L
numbers are not produced within twelve months after the c
s drawing is dosed, are to be considered as given towards 1
' the I'u'nJ for the University ; it being determined to fettle a
j, the whole .bufirtefs in a year from the ending of the dravSN <
i:ig, and to take up the bonds given as feturity. 1
The real securities given for the payment of the Prizes, ;
,j[ are held by the Prcfident aiid two Diro«slors (if the Bank (
of Columbia, and are v&ifccd at more than half the a- 1
Je mount ol the lottery. i
at The twenty tour gentlemen who by appointment of i
; s the late Coirtmiffiancrs a filled in the management of the ]
J( j Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake this arduous tafc 1
a second time on behalf of the public ; a fufocicttt oum ,
J; j bcr of thcl'e having kindly accepted, it is hoped thit the ;
frimds to a National University and the otherfcderal t>b- ]
jedsmaj continue to'favor the design. 1
By accounts received from the different parts of the |
a£ Continent as well as from Europe, #hcre the tickets
cs hare been sent for sale, the public are allured that the
drawing will speedily commense, and that the care and
. caution unavoidably neceHary to inl'ure a fafe disposal cf
th« tickets, has rendered the Inert fufpen&on ihdifpcnfable.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
.§, Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia jo
■*" James Weft &i Co. Baltimore ; of Peter Boston
of John Hopkins, RichmoCd ; and of Richard Wells
or Cooper's Ferry. ' co
Watsons Answer to Gi::bon.
. ..
he JUST RECEIVED, '
an And for laic By J, OB VIROl), No. 41, 'Chefr.ut-ftteet,'
h' Apology for Chriftianity 5
nd In a fir in ef Letters, addrefftd to
ids Edward Gibbon, Eg<^.
m- Atlffeor of the History of the Decline and Fall of the
nd "Roman Empire:
>u- Br R. WATSON, d. d. f. k. s. Bilhop of Landaff. j
of . (Price 75 cents bound )
al ;. Watfon'3 Anfwcr to Paife,
01 '
ne ' To be had at tlic fame place.
c3r The enemies of Religion an- a-wake ! Let not her
at friends Jleep
iri- u mw&ftf
[aft — _
'N O T I C E.
cic " r Sublcriber, having beet! rcduced in his circum
'P" X ftaiices, !.y sundry misfortunes, and being thereby '
nuable- to fatisfy his just debts, hereby give* .'utice to his
0 Creditors and toall perfnfis concerned, that he intends to
"I apply'to the General Afle.fibly of Maryland at their next
session t.) be held on the firft. Mondiy of November next.
' . for the benefit of an aiSt of insolvency.
iC WILLIAM EDMONDSON
. Eafton. iff of the otli month, lawtiUMN
L To be iold '
A PLANTATION, in the town of Woodbury, coun
ty of GlouCetter, aiid Uatc of New-Jersey, contain
ing about one huftdrcd rn>d fifty acres ; a suitable pre-por
arc tion of which is woodland'and improved meadow.* A
the' £ relt P art °f th « arable land "is 111 a high state of cultiva
tj.e tion, and very natural to the produflion of Red Clover,
ins, ° r " --' ll plantation there is a genteel two-story brick house,
)m ' with four rooms on a floor, and a good dry cellar under
rQ f the whole ; together with a barti, corn-cribs and carriagc
lcr, h-jiiib. l'he gafdeh is large, and contains a good'collec
u ll tion of the bed kinds of grafted and inoculated fruit trees;
an j the brchard confUUcf about three hundred grafted app e
/»/- trces ' Any perfoft iaclincd to pul'cliafe said premil'es, may
. be informed of the terms by applying to
\tb, ANDREW HUNTER.
J U 'Y -9 , j
To be Sold,
At No. 128, North Second-Street, and Ij several oj
, the Apothecaries in this K'ty.
' I 'RANSFERS of the right to remove pains »nd inllamma
,A tions from the human bsdy, asfecuied to Dr. ELISHA
U*" PERKINS, by patent, with inftrumcn;s and directions ne
ceifary for lUe practice. This rii'ode of treatment is pcrtieu
[en- larly ufefol in relieving pair* in the head, face, teeth, brcali,
ions fide, fkomach, back, r|lieumatifm», recent gouts, &c. &c.
Notvnthftanding the utility of th'.j pr'aflice. it is not pre
ferred bat there are cases in which thit and every othei
r. remedy may sometimes f»U.
J. June t t _ law
I Canal Lottery,
n°. R
XTTHEREAS th'e State of Maryland has au 'u."
W the underwritten, to raif. twenty-**, ttou.-ma.
two hundred 1 , arnt fifty dollars, lot-the purple rfcuttiaf
a Canal through th; City of W aldington, fro,, th lo
tomacto theEaftern Branch : ** r "° ur ; . ,
The following is tlvc SCHEME ot No. .
Viz 'l Priie of' »0,000 dollars, 2,0,000
1 ditte ro.coo, 10,000
7 last drawn 7 00 35 , 0 oc 'M
Tickets, each J
15 ditto i.ocio
10 ditto 4°° 4)°s>o
ao ditto 100 a,OOO m
55 ditto 5° . 4| '
5750 ditto I® (<),00%
To be railed for the Canal s 26,2.50
5850 Prize*; _ IJJiOCo
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175^^*
Sfs* The Commiflioners have taken the Sttotituu rt
quired by the afore/aid ail tor tke pun-W paynv- .- ;,f
the prizes.
i hc drawing of fliisLottery will commence, v/jthc"t
delay, at loon °as tl* Tickets are fold, of which time.*
notice will he given. . 1
Such prizes as are not demanded m Cx itionths aft r the
drawing is fiuiflicd, frail be cenfidererl as for
tlu benefit of th? Cttna.l, and appropriated accordingly.
f Signed J NOTLEY YOUNG,
' DANIEL CARROLL, r/D.
LEWIS DJIULOIS,
GEOKGE TALKER,
WM.M.D UNC A NS ON,
THOiMAS LAW,
TAMES BARKY.
City of Wafiiingtoß, £ei>. 11. 5
Mordecai Lewis
HAS FOR SJLE,
NANKEENS, long and fliort.
( China, well affortcd.
, - f
;Dii'pers
- Baft as. __ : —
[ "CoflVts. / •
Bandafio Haft'dtercHieJj.
Roll Brimftoiie.
Sept. 6. tt&fim
s For i?ale,
;, *A laARGE ELEGANT 'AVD WELL tIhtSHKB
Three-story Brick House,
(The late residence of General Walter Stewart)
f "tfTTITfi a LOT of OROU'ND thereunto belonging,
s W the weft fide of .Thircl-ftreet, near Umon-lheet
1 ! containing in front J» feet, and in depth roo feet, to ar^
I alley leading into Uuion-ftreet. Thehoufu is 32 feet front
e ! and 50 feet deep ; the several rooms contained in it are
' ; large, cortmiodious, andcbmpleifcly finifhed; tke twofirft
e stories are each i J feet high; there arc 20 ljiahegany
« doors in the house ; a geometrical ftaiTcafe, with malioga
s ny rails and a good iky-light. The kitchen is in the fell
e ar, whioh is spacious and convenient, and fmifhed with an
'* bven, ilew-holes and pantries, a servants' hall (lid lsrgc
Wine-cellar adjoining the kitchen, i a front Of which is an
i, area in which thtfre is a pump. The yard is vault J.
k Communicating with the'faid building is a neat thrce-ftof/
brick hovl'e, on the north fide t>f Unioii-ftrcct, contain"
ifig 30 feet front by i 6 feet deep; the lower part of which
>f is at present occupied as ayromptmg-houfe, and the upper
e part divided into weH-finilhed large thanibers. Ttnshouis
k may at a small expense be converted y<o a convenient
1 dwelling : Tiiefl'reet door is Very handsome, and the front
ie and back have Venetian winddvv-fhuttefs, Adjoining the
>- lafl koitfc, upon the lot belonging to the firft, are creeled
bathing-rooms, icc. Thtire arelilcewife v,-.ry good civach
i- lioufe and Itables-fimihcd cqt'al (or nearly so) with-Shy in
ts the city, on a lot containing on Union street 30 feet, and
te in depth on the wuft fide of laid alley 5a feet, 't here are
id good cellars unde, the -whole of tlie buildings, end a wine
of room over patt of theftafi'.e, with a luiy-loft over tile re •
e. niainder. i'or further particulars enquirr of
EOWAUL) BUNS iLL & Co.
0 At their Office No. 64 Bock-!lieet. uelween Walnut & Hear
n t'&f ilreets.
;j 9 6th month 24th, 179 Q.
F 0 li S ALE.
A PLANTATION,
ABOITT ii miles from this City, situate in Abiitg
ton Tdwnlhip, M outgo m pry - County j containing
70 a&rcs, a rijiw stone iioufe, two ltories high, 2 rooms oua
floor, Hre places in each, a ilone kitchen and (lone fil ing
house, over an excellent- spring of water, a barn, stable*.
fVieds, barracks, See. A Urge and a varietvof
tie Other fruit, about la acres good meadow well wateredfv^
and wood fuffictent ior fire, and fencing the place. Poflefli
|r on may be had the Apiil nexr. Prooerty in this city
w ill be tike,l in cxchang", 01 MORRIS and NtfSS6UJO&S
Nolcs in paymttii. Incite Arch-Stieet.
Fhiladelphia, September 13, 1796. itfif
"
WANTED,
For any lei m from one to four fears,
A HOUSE, p'ijfcntly situated In any of tbe principal
flrects within the pavement, and not very diflant from
n the cspahle of accommodating a small fami
ly ' ly ; the house must have stables and coach-honfe, and
lis would be required to be ready by the liru. week in No
to Vtmber next —Eu»;uire of the printer.
*t Sept, 14. ' ttf ;
«• ■ , ...
FOR SALE*,
™ A very Valuable Eliate,
CALLED T IV IT? EN HA M, situate in the
townihip of Upper Derby, andcotntyof Delaware,
; n ~ 7 l-a miles from Phiiadc lphia, and half a mile from the
1U " new Wellern road; containing 230 acres of excellent.land,
J *~ 45 °f Which afe good watered m. adow, 90 of prime wood
and the reft arable of thi firft quality. There are
,a " on thepremifesagood two story btlckhoufe, witk 4 ro6m»
cr " °n a floor, and ccllars under the whole, with a pumn-wert
| ' e » of excellent water in front; a large frame Urn, tables,
>- r and other convenient buildings; a Imoke-houfe and '.tone,
ipring-houfe ; two good apple orchards, and one of peacfa
- c es. ihe fields ate all in clover, excispt those Immediately
•» > Under tillage, and arc /o laid out as to have the advantaye
e ' of water in each ol them, which renders it peculiarly con
venient for grarfc)g. t .
1 he Oluation is pltafant and healthy, and froni the high
cultivation ol the land, the good neighbourhood, and the
vicinity to the city, it is very full able for a geatleman's
- country feat.
The foregoing is part of the cftat: of Jaceb Harr.-.an,
0 j deceased, and oilered for laic by
Mordecai Lewis,
n * Otsl. 9. tt&l Surviving Executor.
-1A . 0
cu- . '
an, PKINTED BY JOHN FEN'NO,
>re- No. HQ .
hei '
CHESW&T-STIJEET#
■ [Pricc Sight Dolors per .❖.nnwm.j