#a?ette of the States,& Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
- T -j TUESDAT EVENING, NOVEMBER 8, 1796.
Nvmbmx 1300.] . „ a- ——
for sale,
1 HE SHIP MART,
SAMUEL PARKER, Master,
hundred tons burthen. Apply t°
JOSEPH ANTHONY,*Go.
If the MARY is not fold inafew days, (he will take
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
October 31.
,~£"g-v For New-York,
t - SS* ~ The Schooner Mary,
Douglafs, mailer ; will fail in a
fc.v dijs, and take freight very low. Apply to
Joseph Anthony & Co.
Nov. _A
Tuft 1 arrived, and will this day be lan-
Jed from on board the brig FAVORITE at Chefnut
street wharf. ' _
25 Tons best Ruffta Clean HEMP,
16 Tonsold Sable flat IRON,
goo Coils'bcft Ruflia CORDAGE, assorted fixes,
400 Pieces brown Ruflia SHEETINGS,
too Bolis Ruflia DUCK,
Pieces Ravens do.
to Halt-down feather beds, and
A few pieces assorted DIAPER.
FOR SALE Br
Joseph Anthony and Co.
!■'"A—* The above mentioned BRIG
will fail i* a few days, and tak.: freight on
moderate terms for Botton or Salem, for
or padage, apply on board or as above
OQober .Tl. d
For Freight or Charter,
The ship COMMERCE,
(SM'T.. NATHANIEL CURTIS, Master.
844 vnil
be ready to receive a cargo in a few days. For
w terms apptly on Woard at &righL*s wharf, or to
Joseph Anthony & Co.
For Sale on board the above Vrjfsl,
A quantity of excellent COAL.
(f!T* Peifons having goods on board, are earneftJy rcqucft
cd to fend their permits.
OAoberai. diot
f- For Freight or Charter to Europe, or
the Weft-Indies.
1 The new Brigantine
FAIR AMERICAN,
Richard Calley, Matter.
IS in compleat order, and in readiuefs for receiving
a cargo. ' She is i handy veflel, and has good accom
modations for passengers. Apply to Captain Calley,
os board said veffelj laying the upper fide of the Slill-
House wharf, Southjvark, or to
Isaac Harvey, jun.
No. 3, So. Water-street.
nth mo. ill. diw.
j-~ —jrft ,K> * i r » ML', 1 J —"
The capital (hip CERES,
fgsS&fJijof*'! sOon : —For freight or passage
"i j."*!" , r. _
John VUughan,
September 10. Front-street.
• The Brig MART,
: ; Lying at MelTrs. Willings and Francis's
wharf, burthen 2000 barrels, built in Philadelphia in 1793
of live oak and ted cedar.—She is well found, and may
be fertt to fes at a fmail expener. For terms apply to
Gurney & Smith.
OA dtf.
* For BRISTOL,
the ship 1
p HIL ADEL pHI A >
Theodore Bliss, mailer.
A new ship, on her i'econd voyage, with the best
accommodations for paflengers, and is intended to fail
with all expedition. For freight or passage apply to
the Mailer on board, or to
Thomas & John Clifford:
Who have just imported in said velTel, and have for
! sale, besides their general affortinent
IRONMONGERY,
A quantity of fine drawn and common Ifiarp "ifid
flat point NAILS ; doable & single rell'd Sheet Iron ;
Iron Pots, Kettles, and Iron Weights, of all sizes ;
London ar.d Bristol Pewter in casks, aflorted ; boxes
of Tin Plates ; rases of Men's, Women's and Boys'
Hits ; crates of earthen and flint Olafs Ware ; Crates
of Phials; boxes of Window-Glass ; boxes of long
and Ihort Pipes ; Copper in Sheets ; Oval Quart Bot
tles in hampers; also, a few casks of bottled Begr,
and two bales of Superfine Broadcloths and Cafli
oieres. Odlobers7. m&th2<v
For Liverpool,
- The £bip DOMINICK TERRr,
Jacob Dehart, Mailer.
Has a part of her cargo engaged.—
IsUvfj' '2CV&. For freight or passage apply to the inaf
ter en board, at the whar- of the sub- I
fcribcrs, or,
Jeffe Iff Robert Wain.
Nov. 7. d
For Lisbon,
The Danilh barque Ben etentuka,
Samuel Stub, Mailer,
A good veflel of about two hundred
burthen. For freight or pafl'aae
apply to
JeJJe Es 5 Robert Wain.
Nov. 7, d.
On TUESDAY EVENING, the Bth mil. ' (
dt the Merchant's Cnffie-Houfe,
MISL- The Schooner Lucy, !
Now lying at Chelhut-llreet wharf j a fine," flout 1
built vefTel, one hundred and sixteen tons burthen ; in :
every refpetft well found, and may be sent to lea at a !
small expenct —the inventory may be seen at the
Conipting-Houfe of the fubforibcrs, or a: Footman
and Co. aui'tioneerj.
Joseph Anthony Co.
Nov. s . 4 ]
For Sale, or Charter,
Hi The Ship DIANA, ■
aL. Samuel Pile, Master,
Burthen 105 47*95 tens register, in
' Philadelphia iu the year 1792, 01 live osk
and red cedar, and was Iheathed 13 months ago, she
1 has just had a compleat out-fit, and may be sent to f?a
at a very triflmg cxpence.
For terms apply to .
Phiiip'-Nicklin iy Co.
trho have fir Jots, 'or. beirU fata vrjj'd,
i 27 caiks of fitie yellow paint.
9 boxes and 12 bundles of writing flutes.
I box ink stands and note prcill'S.
14 bales of fail canvass. /
And an hand,
Imperial ~)
Hyson, and, > TE A
Souchong j
4®,000 pieces Nankeens of the firft quality.
19 tubs Qjjiekfilver.
a cherts Bandanao handkerchiefs.
A few chests Maschefter goods well assorted in Cor
duroys, thicksets, Ginghams, Muflinet?, Dimities, &c.
3 boxes black sewing fiik.
ISo crates Queens ware well aflorted.
I* tons Iheet lead, J.
Nails aflorted, flat and lharp points.
London Particular,, Madeira Wine in pipes
London Market, > d hogfh , lds>
New-York Market, J 6
1 40 pipes and i* hoglheads Tenerifle wine. 11
8 tierces Srtake Root.
13# lors Mahogany.
■ Nov 7* tth&ftf.
For Charter, j
CjL+t The Ship JOHN BULKELT, »
I. Ayriis Stockley, Mailer. "
■ An excelTeiit five-oak" aiia c<Bar built
ef about 3«oo barrels burthen —Ap-
JeJJe ts 5 Robert Wain.
Nov. 7.
Printed Calicoes. f
JOHN MILLER, jun. & CO.
Have received per the William Pcnn, in addition to \
their own aflorment,
A consignment of twenty trunks of Calicoes, ele
gant London patterns j also a few cases of handsome
Buttorts—Which will be fold at a Ihort credk, on very
: rcaionable terras, by the package only.
Oil. 14. dtf J
: A CAPITAL ASSORTMENT OF
DRY GOODS. v
John Miller, jun & Co. J
CONSIGNMENTS, ;
' Which comprize a capital assortment to open a 1
Dry Goods Store. C
—Atnongll them art—
Common, super and luperfine Cloths, p
~ "Flsw, twill a urwi irrfp*tl"Croatisigß,
Baizes and Flanneh,
Point, rose and duffil Blankets, S
Plain and puntea Cafiimeret,
-Swanldowns,
Printed Calicoes,
Scotch Threads,
Hosiery.
They will he fold either in whole, or ill part, by the
packags, on terms which render them an ebjeiS worthy of
attention to purehafers. dtf Oil. 21.
JOHN MILLER, fun. & Co. 1
No. S', CHESNUT STREET,
, Have Imported in the late vessels fram Europe, &c. cl
AND HAVE lOR SALE,
A gcaetal affortwent of GOODS, suitable tp the season— g
Amongst which are, '
BROAD and narrow CLOTHS, *
Plain twill"d COATINGS, .
Rose striped and point BLANKETS, ,°
FLANNELS and BAISBS,
HATS aflorted in cases, '
IRISH LINF.NS, B
INDIA GOODS, generally,
A Configried Invoice of IRONMONGERY,
Comprjfing a capital aflortnient to open aftore inclu
ding Thirty Csik» of NAILS. This invoice will be fold -
entire on very advantagtcus terms.
September 20. 1 d
The Cargo of the Polacre Independent, T
CAPTAIN CATHCART, from Alicant and lit
bon, landing at the fubferibers wharf—
28 Pipes of Brandy . j
18 Bales of Spanilh wool
3 do. of
7000 Bulhels of bell Lilbon Salt
80 Lemons
For fa4e by WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
ALSO,
Seventy Hogsheads of prime JAMAICA SUGARS,
received by the (hip Dominick Terry, Capt. De Hart,
prom Kinglion.
Sept. 1.5. d
10 hogfteads St. Croix Rum, -
5 Pipes Vinegar,
For Sale, by A ,
Ezekiel Hall, j ani
, T _ No. ao, Pcnn Street.
Inov. 7.
Fashionable Waistcoating.
GEORGE DOBSON, No. 25, 1
SOUTH THIRD-STREET, thi
VeC tl' d f fc th ' Dia " a ' f'" m th<
C ouded and striped Spanish Swanldown )0
Clouded Ermmats and Mole&ins
Striped do. and do. 'v
Figured Manillas p Q
Scarlet figured Ermicets
Printed Florinetts '
Do. Ciflinets and Caffimsres " an<
Superfine printed Qudtings, newest patterns Ge
Alio, per difTtrent arrivals,
A large and general assortment of Drv f ,
Goods, ' S
Navembif \° ro#d ' !n S
dtf ]
For Sale,
This day I.an.Jin? from on board the ship Concord,
Captain Thorrtpfon, from Amjlcrjam,
. Girf, in pT}(c»
jj Jtmpty Gh: Cases
.Hock in cafas of 4 doz.
le Giafi T|mb|m in chefti
:1 Sytecl Oi, in '
Pattc Sraffe C'heefe in boxes, 55"c. , '
Am l.iMinv tj th* Louijh, Copt. Bell, from Ljfien,
.to Put . iik.s tiftc.n/S*rin«.(
"1 On HMII,
A quantity of Brandy, Hazle-Nuts in facts, &c.
Peter Blight.
Prober 1.7. sow eoiw ,
For Sale,
Carolina Rice in whole and half tierces,
Cotton of Cayenne and Trinidad,
Sod Leather, entitled to drawback,
Boftoo Beef, and
Mould and dipt candles.—Apply to » 1
Ij'aac Harvey, jun.
r . No. 5, South Water-street.
c, 10th mo. 17. d3 w «
For Sale,
By J. WARDER, PARKER & Co,
An Invoice of Cordage,
s Confining of different sizes, from 11 inch cables down
to rope of 1 inches, of different lengths: Imported in
the ship Swift, from Hull, and entitled to drawback.
Sept. 17. dtf
For Sale,
~ A Three-dory BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut
flreet, between Front and Second ftrsets, in which
Meflrs. James Calbraith & Co. have for many years (and
now do) citricd on bulinefs.
!i, Pofll?!Sj>n • ,: .Hgivv« in mv i month,.®r. iooner. _
For tcritff? aJTjily to WILLIAM BELL, or
HECTOR CALBRAITH.
April a. 5
— — : —: i —n 7-: :
William Gardner, No. 62,
SOUTH FRONT-STREET,
Has received by the late arrivals from Liverpool
and Glasgow,
An effort ment of DRT GOODS,
0 Which he will difrjole of upon low terms, for cafli
or the usual credit, by the piece or package—
ie G° n ]\fl Ln Z of ]
y CAMBRICKS, Printed Calinops and Chintzes
Printed Handkerchief# and Shawls
Jaconet and Book Muflina, well aiTorted
"* Di>. do. tamboured do. 1
Do. do. Handk's aad Shawls do.
White and coloured tlire ds
Di&perand diaper table cloths
Co,tton check and check handkerchiefs
1 coloured nankeens t
I
Tapes anri.tr»rifrs. ' - , '
Cotton counterpanes
Mens and wnmens gloves
Plpts and Itockings .
bed-ticks and brown Hollat.d
Sriitionjrv, &c. &c. &C. :
November a. mts '
-2 __ f
Imported in the late arrivals, \
And to be Sold by 1
JACOB PARKE, [
,f No. 49, North fide of High*ftreet, Philadelphia,
A GENERAL ASSORTMENT OF ]
- Ironmongery, Cutlery, Sadlery, &c.
AMOVGST WHICH ARE
SMITHS* Anvils, Vices, and Files; Saw-mill, Cross
cut, Hand, and other Sa\Vs; Carpenters' Planes, Chisels,
and other Tools; Curving Chisels and Gouges; Locks, A
Hinges, Bolts and Latches; Nails, Sprigs, Tacks, and
Screws; Frying-Pans; Snaoething-Irons; Shovels and
Tongs; Coffee Mills; Candlelcicks ; Snuffers; Warming-
Pans; Table Knives and Forks; Riding Whips; Bar
low Pen, and other Pocket Knives; Razors; Sciffars ;
Needles; Ivory and Horn Comb#; best Kirby Filh
Hooks; brass Cabinet Furniture; Waggon Boxes; Sheet
Br^afs; plated and tin'd Bridle Bits and Stirrups; itto
Sa die Nails; Girth and Straining Webbs; —with mo ft
kinds of Ironmongery, Cutlery, Sadlery, Brass Wares,
<kc. <scc.
Q&eber 24. mwf6w
Sales of India Goods.
The Cargo of the ftlip Ganges, capt. Tinggy, from Cal
ciitta and Bengal* 1
CONSISTING OF 4
A Large and genera! assortment of Bengal and Madras
COTTON and SILK GOODS.
AMONG WHICH ARE
A variety fine worked, and plain Mujiins,
Doreas, tyc. Also,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
In boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER,
f For Sale by
Willings Francis, c
T 0 No. 21 Penn Street*
June 8 § S
WANTED, " |
As COOK, in a private family, a woman of good eharaflrr j:
and who can be well recommended. c
Enquire of the Printer. i
Q&nbrr 31. d ?t . ®
Lottery and Broker's Office, £
Ao. 64, South Second street. Y
T'CKETS the CaiAl Lottery, No. a, for sale—a B
X Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in B
the late lottery. r t)i
Check Books kept for examination and rejlfterine, for
the C«y of Wafhmgton, No. 4, and Pattefon Lotteries ol
both,of which are now drawing—lnformation where
tickets ire to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Motel and Publie School Lottery, for
examination.
The fubferiber foiicits the application of the public
and his friends, who wish to purchase or fell Bank Stock -
Certificates Bdls of Kxchauge or Notes, Hoirfes, Lands]
&.c. or to obtain money on depofit'of property.
r, * so T,cktt6iQ ,h * Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
[he Spring" DOIKrS CllCh ' WhiCh WiH be draW " in t
oK ta 1 Wm. Blackburn. ,
Philadelphia, Aujrf 18, 17j6 . mth
' ' P T> I •*»
The Elephant is returned from Ba!ti~
t - more.
THE public ve„ refpeftfully informed, tjjat
this animaj is to be seen cyenr day, from 8
o'clock; iii the morning till fun. ek>wn, in Market
eer, N*. 106, south fide, between Third and
i Fonrth-ftieefs.
Admittance a quarter of a dollar, that every ci
, tiien may fee Lira.
C 3" At the reqaeft of many persona it will be
ekhifcittfd on .five to eifl.t c'ciock,
at hef a dollar each.-*—The icom will be well
lighted. *
i November f. d
a'• - ■ -
Madeira Wine.
30 Pipes of the very beit quality, aqd St for immediate
' us: r jafl,imported in the fchconer I .ucy from Madeira*
and for £ilc by
John Craig,
No. It, Doek-ftrefct.
Who has for Sale,
Teneriffe Wine, in pipes, hogfheadi, and oj. calks;
Window Glass.
Segars, &(. &c.
, Two trunks of the bed Cotton and Silk
Hosiery.
l oaoier 4. , mwftf
Brokers Cftice, au<j
COMMISSION STORE.
No. 6.f South Thirdftraet,opporitethenatibn2l i.ewßank.
SAMUEL M FR ONCES and JOHN VAN REED,
have entered into co-partnerHVip, under the firm of
1 FRAITNCES & VAN REED, in-the bufineTs of B okers,
i Conveyancers and Commiflion mcrehanti. They by and
fell on cumrtuffion dvery species of stock, notes of ri iod,
bills oi exchange, houfrs and lands, &c.
Money procured g.. depofcij; &t. ifcc aH kinds cf
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatnefsand
dispatCh, accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the
uioft corred manner. Confitant attendance will be given.
They solicit a lhare of the public favor; they are deter
mined to. yideavour to deserve it.
N. B. The utmofl secrecy obfervpd.
1 SAMURL M. FRAUNpEjS,
JQUN VAN REED.
Philad. iuguft 27, 1796. m&wtf
- .' • ' .
' Benjainin and Jacob johnson,
No. 147, M%rikeNftreet,
Have received by the last arrivals from Liverpool and
I * Hull,
A very 'general ajfortmtnt of DRY GOODS.,
Well suited to the approaching fsafon, iVhich they will
fell on the lawijft terras by the piece or package.
Odloberi4. taw4w
1 j r-. — ■>) rl'i — 1
Caution.
•
The following NOTES have bten STOLEN from
the fubfcribcr, on the evaning of the 31ft ult. allper
fons are hereby forewarned from receiving the fame.
- One, Robert Morris to John Nicholfon, dated March
?r 8 ' r do " ari
And one John Nicholfon to Robert M'orria.uatSt
and payable asabovt, anil sos the fame sum.
above note* with other papsfs were conuinediti
a Green Morocco covered almanack, and were ftolsa
with a quantity of clothing, from the piazza of thefub
fjriber. i'he clothing coe lifted of one drab coloured
greatcoat, 1 do. close coat, 1 dark mixture do. I.olive
mixture do. 1 brown silk morning gown, I old black
(ilk cloak, 1 child's great coat, coating, 1 do.
doth.
A handsome reward will be given for the Pocket
Book and papers, by
yames Todd,
No; 26, Sp. Front-street.
nth mo. *d.
Imported in the late arrh'ils from Europe and the
_ Weft- dies,
Holland Gin, it pipes
Choice St. Croix Sugar and Kum
Martinique Molaffus, in hogsheads
Choice old Lisbon Wine, in pipes and quartcr-caflcj
London Particular & Lohdon Market Madeira Wine,
in pipes, half-pipes and quafter-cafks
Malmsey Madeira Wine, in pipes and quarter-casks
p Teneriffe Wine, in pipes
Rufiia & Flemiih Sheeting and Ravens Duc-k, in cafe*
Window Glass, 3 by 10, in boxes »
Coffee Mills and Straw Knives, in casks
Mill Saws and Cross-cut Saws, in boxes
Also, on hand,
A few chtfh of Bohea Tea ; Jesuits Bark ; Aflafat*
* tida arid Tapioca ; and a few bales of Colfaesj
, Baftas, Gurrahs, Bandanna and Muslin Hairdker
chiefs, and a complete afTortment of 5-4 and 6-4
Boulting Cloths.
' For Salt by
Pragers tsf Co.
Oiflober ao diwm&th2m
~ LAND IN G,
Out of deferent vejfe/s from England, an J for fait
by the fubjeribers on reasonable terms,
Supeifine and common cloths, and caffimers
Ribbed and striped do. do.
Blankets, mottled green and silk rugs.
Superfine blue, Claret, and common coatings,
Kerfcys, Beafr-flcins, plains and Halfthicks,
Swanskins, Serges and Flannels, '
Britilh Ingrain Carpeting,
Hatsafforted is cases of 11 doz. each.
Chocolate chintzes, printed Callicoes and Handkerchiefs.
Scarlet Cardinals, and Scarlet Spail,
Yarn, Woffled, and Cotton hosiery,
Beavers, Thickfetts, Velvets, Corduroys, &c. &c.
Buff and drab Genoa Cords of a fuperidr quality.
lad. 2od. nails, and frying pans,
Analiortrncnt oflronmongerry, Cutlery and a variety
of India cotton, and silk goods.
Thomas Sis fofhua Fijher.
ait t , No - St Dock-fttreet.
Also by the Glaigow from Dublin,
1-8 and 4-4 Irifli Linens aflbrtddin boxes of 30 pieces,
do. Brown, (Jlazed Linnen.
° & ■ *7- dtf.
Washington Lottery,
t? e 34 nt H and 35 ' h dayS ' of the Washington .
Lottery, NO. 2, aie received at the office No. 234, Mar
ket-street, where tickets may be examined.
N. B. Inlormation given where tickets in all the other
lotteries may be procured.
Novembar 3, 1796.J-/JT of Phizes and in the
WaJhington Lottery, No. 11.
34th Days Drawing, o<f>. 29.
No. D«h. N.. Me. N*-. Dolj. No. Dels.
78 11656 14379 10 35378 ,
V 171 to 13571 990 10 756
319 10 14038 10 ' 15758 10 36136
53» 14463 10 16170 431
*69° 966 266 549 j
703 15M9 467 37880
g 57 v 513 496 943 ' i
*180 1® 678 167160 989
453 84J 933 38669
7©o 971 977 10 935 10
861 Io *6173 10 .17111 10 39101 10
3335 437 10 440 10 -,fl 10
994 580 467 10 40689 10
4069 6it g}o 4i«35 15
5X3 10 815 18175 10 4J4
584 XJ76I 10 629 jOl
J336 to 855 I*o4B 5j6
C 591 18306 * cii i® 684
6 97 10 351 50 069 41338
BiJ 408 198 468
6409 10 19118 424 43651
4ii 331 580 10 883
7580 10 461 10 707 44311 15
657 10144 30301 ro 907
839 347 10 31180 10 45145 10
8°5.7 498 381 10 381
in 663 10 795 383
408 15 -Mil,s 918 399 10
440 596 1 31081 836
680 le • 833 10 303 10 46615
749 *1358 33006 734
? 18 5 377 070 47763
93* 439 *• 159 48170 10
506 10 13189 564 113 10
53 366 658 153
7li 295 10 811 335
•1188 814 34836 I
417 *0 14118 10 35046
35th Days Drawing, OAober 31.
No. Dols. No. Dolj. No. Dels. No. IS alt.
>99 16340 31354 39611
153 10 413 355 - 40725
,*971 513 464 869 '
i6 SS J7149 943 I* 41693
3091 18081 10 31109 41017 '
\ 415 *79 148 041 10
896 *5 176 181 103
4138 19856' 398 43401
21 9 17J 633 866
150 10 996 643 44130 10
174 10 10157 1® 660 291
*8* 755 747 45014
649 10 11815 33700 10 069
7*5 10 13316 34949 118 i*
®"i 346 10 35157 10 665
9*97 14304 15 303 10 668
386 to 15175 36934 46168
615 105 10 37011 10 476
*1117 809 ic 119 Rl4
498 17968 934 47453 10
*3003 18181 38086 ro 661
9*° 743 104 10 688
-14660 30096 39080 48696
7ii 519 iti JO 741
988 10 516 917
Error* in the 3id day's drawing—laftead of 6815
Wank, read 6815 1 prize of 10 dols.—iad for 46963
read 46963 a blank.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
Price 37 'l-i Cents.
The nf 'rkory.-.c
ineTreuaency,
examined,
And the Charges against John Adami j
REFUTE^.
Akdreffed to the Citizent of America in general,
and, particularly,
To the Eleflors of the President. '
Sold by
W. YOUNG, MILLS & SON, Corner of Seei* d 1
and Chefaut-flreeti. '
November 5. t tg 1
■ ■ 1
For SALE or CHARTER, j
The Brigantine LIBERTY,
JEREMIAH MURPHY, Matter. {
New lying at Albertfon's wharf—
e ' 3 an excc "ent veflel, will carry a
bout 1300 barrels flour, is completely
found, and ready to receive a cai go. For terms, ap
ply at No. 149, South Front-flreet.
jlVhere may be had by the package only,
A frnall consignment of DRY GOODS, j«ft re
ceived—consisting of,
Cloak, •)
Superfine Hairbine, & > CAMBLETS.
China j ■
Crapes,
Carded Poplins,
Sattinel LaP.ing, &e.
Alfa m fe-vj bales CALCUT7 A GOODS, via.. '
Guzenahs, j
3afta», |
Coflaes, l
Ticktrys,
Punjim Cloths,
Humhums, 1
Gurrahs, 1
Black Taffeties, lj
Barhar,
Pullicat, & £ HANDKERCHIEFS.
Bandanna J
•Choppa Uornals,
Patna Chintzes, &c. &e.
■Likewise a few hhris prime Molafl«,
A Urge quantity ol bef) Rhode-Iflaiid Cheese,
50 boxes Spcrmaccti candlcs, and
A few barrels Beef. j
October 17.
Sheridan's Dictionary,
THF. SIXTH EDITION,
Is this Day Publifried, J
sr :r. rouNG, mi lis & son,
Corner of Second and Chefnut streets,
la ore largr Bi-o. 1-olvme, price 5 dollars. !
A COMPLETE DICTIONARY of the £NGLHH
LANGUAGE, both with regard to foxind and meaning, 1
one main obj'-A of which is «o effablifli a plain and per- | !
waner.t Standard of Pronunciation. To which is prefixed, 1
a Profodial Grammar. ' 1
-Br THOMAS SJitKID/tN, A. M.
OAober 11. t t &,
A Manufadory F@R SALE. i
A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufaflory, li'uate 1
in • convenient part ot the eitv : llie works almost new, |
ftn an entirely origioal conflruflii.n, and built ol the bed
materials, and may be let to work immediately. Pcrfom '
wbowi<hto purehafe, at« itqueAed to apply at No. 17a,
3o«(h Sesond Street.
September 13. « t ( «f
t
? For the Gazette of the United States.
PHOCION—No. xvir.
BY. those who attended to Hie oppofitioft of Mr.
'■ [effetfon, while secretary of ft ate, to the mcafurcs
of the tre/fftiry department, it wa» made a quelli»n>
whether that oppofttion flowed altogether from his
hojlility to tin: head of that drparlnmt (whofc com
petition might, at a future period, be apprehended,
and whose deJlruSi-m was therefotp defitable) or
from hit entertaining principles respecting public
credit and national faith, very different from rhofe
which have influenced all nations, who cherish those
valuable pillars of national flrength.
As his conduct, while rainilter of t?'; United
States at Paris, in relation to this fubjett, may
throw great light on his principles, I (hail proceed
to date the exact tenor of the ttdvttt whicjh Nlr.
Jefferfoti gave to cotigrefs, r«fpe£ti/>g the transfer
of the debt due to France, to a company of Holland
ers. After mentioning an offer which had been
made by such a company for the purehafe of the
debt, he concludes with these extraordinary expres
sions—" If there is a danger of the public pay
ments not be'mg punctual, I submit whether it may
not be better, that the discounts which would then
arise, should be transferred from a court, of whose
good will we have so mveh need, to the brtafis of' a
private company
The above ic an extract which was trade ftom
the letter in February 1787. The date of it was
not n«ted, but the original being on the tiles in the
department of state, will ascertain that, a»d all o
ther particulars, relating to its contents—The ge
nuinenefiof the extradl may be depended upon.
This letter was the fubjeit of a report from the
board of trcafury, in February 1787: That board
treated the idea of t'rantfer proposed as both un
just and iMFOUTtc: unjujl, bccaufr thß nation
would contract an engagement, which there was no
welt grounded prt/peß of fulfilling ; impolitic, be
cause a failure in the payment of inteteft on the
debt transferred (which was wevitoblc) would jufl
ly blajt all hopes of credit with the citizens of the
United Netherlands, in future prefling exigences of
the Union ; and the board gave it as their opinion,
that it would be advisable for congress, without de.
lay, to inftruß their minister at the court of France,
to forbear giving his fcindiov to any such transfer.
Congress agreeing in the ideas of the board,
caused an inflruSion to that effect to be sent to Mr.
Jefferfon. Here there was a foltmn ad of govern
ment condemning the principle as unjujl and impolitic.
If the sentiment contained io the extract, which
has been recited, can be vindicated from poli.
tical profligacy—tUrn is it necejfary to unlearn all the
ancient notions of juflice, and to fabftittite some
new-fafhioned scheme of morality in their ftcad.
Here it no complicated problem, which sophistry
may entangle or ebfettre. Here is a plain question
of moral feeling. A government is encouraged on
j tbe express condition of not having a projpeH of mak
-3 ing a due provision for a debt which it owes, to con
cur in a transfer of that debt horn a nation, well able
. to bear the inconveniences of failure or delay, to
individuals, whose total ruin tn ,^r
confeotwy j" f *?" 1 tlit inlerefltd
-•tliiiißjffifl »T having need of the good-will of
the creditor nation, and, with the dishonorable mo
tive, as is clearly implied, of having more to. ap
prehend from the discontents of tha't nation, than
' from those of disappointed and betrayed individuals.
Let every benej and impartial mind, consulting its
own spontaneous emotions, pronounce for itfelf
upon the reflitudeof such a suggestion.
An effort, fcatcely plausible, has been heretofore
j m » d « by the partirans of Mr. jefferfon, to explain
away the turpitude of this advire> It was repre
sented, that "a company of adventuring fpecttlatots
had offered to purehafe the debt at a discount, fore
feeing the delay of payment, calculating the proba
ble loss, and willing to encounter the hazard."
But the terms employed by Mr. Jefferfon refute this
species of apology. His words are, •« if there j* a
- " danger of the public payments not being punSual, 1
" " full rait whether it nay net be better, that the dif
' " contents which would then arise, should be transfer
" red from a Court of whose good will we have so
<« much need, to the breajls of a private company."
He plainly takes it for granted, discontents
VWQuld arise from the want of an adequate provision,
and proposes that they should be transferred to the
breads of individuals. This he could not have
takfn for granted, if, in his conccption, the pur,
chafers bad calculated on delay and loss.
The true conftru6Uon then is, that the company
expelled to purehafe at an under valtie, from the
probability that the court of France might be wil
ling to raise a pam of money on this fund, at a fa
crif.ee—fuppofwg that the United States, counting
on her friendly indulgence, might be left inclined to
preftthe reimbursement; not that they calculated
on material delay, ur nrgleft, when rhe transfer
\ should be made to them, They probably made «
very different calculation, (to wit) that as it would
be ruinous to the credit of the United States abroad, to
neglcdi any part of its debt, which wat contra&ed
there with individuals, from the impossibility of one
part being diftinguilhable from another in thrpub
lie apprehension ; thit confidcration. would fiimulate
to exertions to provide for it; And so it it evident
from his own words that Mr. Jffiftn underflood it.
But the persons whe offered to parchale were
by the apologitt called Speculator. The cry
of fpeculdtion, as usual, was raifedj and this, with
some people, was the panacea, the umverfal cure for
fraud and breach of faith.
I( is true, as wag alledgcd by the apologist, Mr.
Jefferfon mentioned an alternative, the obtaining oj.
money by nth loant, to reimburse the court ol
J > France; but this is not mentioned in any way that
| derogates from or waves the advice given in the firft
inttance. He merely prefentj an alternative, in
cafe the firft idea should be disapproved.
It may be added the advice refpefting the trans
fer of the debt was little more honorable to the
United States, as it regarded the court of France,
than as it Dutch company. What a
:e blemish on our national charaßer, that a debt of so
jj sacred a nature should have been transferred at so
„ conjiderable a loss to so meritorious a creditor.
hi T , f , PHOCION.
n .. 'J'™ sawetnpttd Vindication, in Dunlap's
Daily Advcrtifer, ef O&obex i;yi.
' LONDON, September XI.
Buoriapsrte, commander in chief of Ihe aimy of
Italy, to the inhabitants of the "1 yrolefe.
Head-quarters at Bretcia, IJth
Fruftidor, At'gtift 30.
" You solicit the prote&ion of the French ar
my. If you expedl it you mull Oiiw yourselves
' worthy of it. Since the majority of you i» well
disposed, compel the few rml-contents who aye a
mong you ta be peaceable, l'heir outrageous con
duct has a tendency to bring upon their coustry
the calamities of war.
" The superiority of the French arms is now
manifeft. The Emperor's minilleis, bought by
I Englifli gold, beiray that country. That unfortu
nate prince commit! an error in every measure he
[ adopts.
" You ividi for peace f The French are fighting
for that object. We march upon ynur tsrritory
for the rxprefs purpose of obliging the court of
Vienna to accede to the prayer of desolated Eutope,
and to listen to the eutrea'ies ef her people ; we
come not here with a view of extending our domi
nions. Nature has pointed out the limits of France
by the interferon of the Alps and the Rhine, in
thefamt manner as (he has placed the Tyrolefe as a
line of demarcatiorrfor the house of Atldria.
| " Tyroleans—whatever your pad conduct may
( have bcea, return to your habitations j abandon the
_ colours which have been so often disgraced, and
which yen arc unable to defend.
" The conquerors of the Alps and of Italy are
not now opposed to an host of euemies. They are
in purfnit of a few vidtims whom the generosity of
I rTiy country commands me to spare.
" We are formidable in battle, hut we are the
friends of those who give ui an hoFpitable recep
' tion.
" The religion, thecodonts, and the property of
the commune!), who submit, (hall be r«fp«£ted.
" The commune", whefe Tyrolean inhabitant*
have not returned on our arrival, (hall be burnt ;
r the inhabitants taken as hostages and sent to France.
" When a commune has submitted, the Syndics
shall he bound to deliver in one hour after, a lift of
the inhabitants who are in the pay of the Empe
ror, and if they /heuld fide with the Tyrolean in
habitants their houses (hall be immediately btirbt,
' and their relations arretted and sent as hoftagea to
France.
" The Tyroleans who (hall co-operate with the
free inhabitants, and are taken with arms in their
hands, (hall Tje instantly (Viot.
*' The general* of division are charged with the
_ drifted execution of this arred.
(Signed) « BUONAPARTE."
( " The above i» a* authentic copy.
(Signed) '• A BERTHIER,
General of Division, See."
Pbiladelphidy November 8.
, -Mr. Ffkmo,
• r <>**<— v~—
' to the Poet Delia Crufca, 7f,fWr
' r follow,n g effiilion on the arrival of
Mrs. Merry formerly tho celebrated Miss Brunton,
will equally oblige the fnends of merit. <m<Uheadl
mtrcrj of the Drama '
FROM scenes made horrid with domestic cries,
. Illuftrions Merry greets nur calmer llcies !
In smiles congenial to our sacred dome,
Here flics the Muse to gain a tranquif home •
Here uncontroul'd to wake the Tragic flame',
And blaze refulgent on the torch of fame !
, Expert ant fancy views the fadelefi stream
( Of Shakespeare's glory, from her pathos beam ;
From founds tranfeendant (hall his spirit fly,
Glow in her bread, or sparkle in her eye ;
And while attentive to fictitious woe,
In fabltd pity nature'* tears stall flow ;
; Draw from our hearts the apprehenlive sigh,
; When to our fears, a Juliet seems to die ;
When loft to love, the mad Ophelia's rage,
In laughing sadness treads the tearful stage ;
Or liy her art a mental transport raise,
When virtue, favor'd, meets the burst oipraife.
Ere long, thus UruntoH, by her magic pmv'r,
In mingled joys, fhali amplify the hour ;
By peer left efforts of a boundless mind,
Make murder pity, and the knife be kind ;
Learn Hon. s to weep ■ and inert bosoms move,
To deeds of virtue, or the Andes of leve ;
Touch the quick nerve of patriotic zeal, '
Or, by reflexion, confciout guilt reveal.
Thus (hall lhe blaze, and in the book of fame,
Add honours brighter to a brilliant namk 1
« R-
November 51b, 1796.
If ibe partisans of the JeJfcrfon ticket are more
ftlccelstul, the tirarer they are to the focus ©f a
certain influence, will not this/atf juftify the se
rious alarmt of those who deprecate the>y»mple of
the Polijh diets at their election of chief ewgiftrate,
wfcith have terminated in the dejlrvaion of the liher
, tin of that miserable nation ?
The (hotitinps of " liberty and equality,'' the
mercerary cries of " no king," which disgraced a
late e'etlioß, art so closely copied from the proceed
ings in France, which firft prepared and afterwards
eftablifhtd the arbitrary pnwer of Roßusriritßß,
that there is no little reason to apprehend a similar
tyranny in this country, if thefc succeed, who arc
now so elofely copying and have always vindicated
the preparatory (leps which led to the despotism of
that monllei and man-flayer.—When popular tyrnn.
Ny lhall trample on the necks ai the wealthy and
indubious, then they will begin to #;ylhe, and
ftrugffle to tife, but it. will be tee law ; a guillotine
will filencc them, and their property become, by
confifcations, the prey of plundering demagogues.
For the Gazette of the United States.
Mr. Fenno,
IN the Notts on Virginia, publiftcd not long
, finer in .your paper, Mr. Jeferfon declares, p. 175,
t.iat corruptitn of morals encreafcs in Amcrica, in
, proportion as citizens quit the culture of the
, earth to becon, manufatiurerj or artists ; and that,
XbcproportM which the a-grega'tc of the other
iwjjes bears to its lujhandmet, is the ptoportion of
i its un/cundio its healthy parts, and is a gqcd enojiah
barometer whereby to measure Us degree 0/ arn'p
;isn ; an.' that the Moiss of great c;T Its
jtlft so much to the /uppert of purs govern* "
f as sorej do to the strength of the hu man ]%
From what 1 have learnt of the late prtetcd'i ' '
[i your great city, i think I shall be a convert To
plulofophcr't great fagacityi, for he seems ( 0 1, '
- exactly hit it. Will some of your correfponde",'■
i please to inform me if it it true, that th< J.i m "'
[1 son party paraded your (tree's on the election da
- with r remch cockades in their halt. VVe
- told such thingtin the country, but can't bev"
I' them - A FARMER^'
r Ext raft from Jefferfon't letter from P ar is, on the
f fu'ajeft of the fefleral cfwiftitiition. '
(See Ounlap's Adverti/lr, of October \jz.J
t " The ffcond fevurc I dislike, and g:<?.'l v ( i T.
like, is the abandonment in every irrjiaqceVf •
, necessity of rotation in office, ;!n d mo/l panic,
' in cafe of the President. Experience c»nc
f with reason in concluding that the firfi mn-riftrate
f will ALWAYS be re defied, if the conliitn ii,ir per.
. mitt it j lit it then an officer for life. Thi»
. onee ohierved, it beeomp* of so much tonfequence to
ckktain nations to have a friend or a f„ C( at t | |f
, bead of our affairs, that they will interfere with
, MONEY and WITH ARMS. A GAILOK AN', ot an
angloman, will be supported by ill- nation he b«-
r FRIENDS, if onee elected, iind if at a jecond or thinl
. election out voted by one or two votes, he will j. K f..
| TFNO FALSE VOTES, foul play, HOLD POSHtSSIOH
of the reins of government, be supported by the
. slates voting for him, tfpeciaUy if they are the cix.
. tr al one«, lying in a compact body theiflfelvrj, a „d
f separating their opponents'; and they will be aidtd
by one nation «f Europe, while the majority are
. aided by another. The ele&ion of a Prciident of
. America, some years hence,* will be much more in
ter/Jling l o certain nation! of Europe, than ever
f the election of a king of Poland was. Rcfledt on
all the injljnces in hif.ary ancient and modern, of
j BiFcnrn MONAtcHiss, and fay if they do not piv»
, foundation for my fears ? Thejlaman Empe
tors, the Popei, while they were of any importance,
. the German Emperors till tfcey became hereditary
p in practice, the Kings of Poland, the Deysof the
. Ottoman dependencirt. It may be fait] that if
, elections are to be attended with these disorders, the
feldomer they are renewed flie better. But experi
, eoce fhevvs,,that the only way to prevent difdrder is
to render them uninteresting by frequent changes.
. An incapacity to be elected a second time would v
have been the only effectual preventative. The
foiverof removing him every fourth year by the mote
. of t/x people, is a power which will not b*
EXERCittD. The king of Poland is rf.movabli
every day by the Dirt, yet he is never removed."
* This was » ritten in i
Mr. Fknno,
THE above quotation, which I declare lobe genuine, as»
fords a very melancholy and alarming piofpeft indeed for ihi»
country if the writer ot it should he elctlcd Prelirleat —
While minister in Franc r, acquainted with the vt «wi and
roLICT of that nation and versed in the hiftoryof her in
trigtej with Sweden, Turkey, Poland, and other nations, ac»
quain'.cd a!f.> wjtb the history of antient and modern repuh—
1,1 1 V* 1 iS/ft** * n'ttlTf-,■ TTTrr-lr T -K ,
conlrqucnce ro cxrtain V.auotu' to
f iif.ad of our affairi that, they will interfrre with mowey and
( with arms (or t>iHEATt which m4y producc the tame ef>
• f 'i'V y , C A 4 - I ' 9 " A of tlx
WifliifflTl tRiXKDS 1. once cVcfted, arid thai Ml subsequent
elections, HI will pretend foul play, and in cfMtwn to the
VOT , , l °', THE rtotL *r hold roisxsstow of the office and
will be supported bv the central Hate, aati the Kirtoit
lie is attached to.—Mr. Jeffcrfon is an avowed &al!oman
•difpoted on all occasions to iefhikhi the French ;ntio„ -we
have seen fomethxng, very like fimftsns of tiir eats and mo.
NRY to flue™ the tleaior ; the Jeferfon ticket, was diftri.
burcd under the auspices of the frckch cockade;,if h«
shall he c)c£VccJ, ha* he not phi ly intimated, :« ihc abovk
quotation, that he witi, at fimlequent s, conitnuc to
hold possession, inoppofition to the nor&E, ruppor
ted by the central (late* and the nation- fe. bcfriindi ?
Has he not declared that he will he Preside nt F o R LIFI
in other words, Ki nc, under the profion of Flakf ? *
AN BNEMY TO FOK'tICK i N F L L' C K»
SWANN'S, '' == "
Riding School, ftorfe Academy & Infirmary.
Ad oining the Public Square, Market Street.
T. SWANN
RF.*I RNS his sincere thanks tothofe gentlemen b«y whona
he has been employed, during his rcfiderice in this City, and
Qatiershimlelf that the success of his efforts, in the numerous, '
obftmate and dangerous diseases in Horses, in which he has
been confultcd, together with his moderate charges, will le
cure their futurefavors and recommendation.
He now begt leave to inform them andlbe public as Utge
that-hit tnrf"eSirvmocitans urcrtnfes, creticd tor the
purpofej above described are open lor the recep:ion of pupil»
of either fcx, who wiftito beinftrufttd in the Ait of Riding,
ar«S the l ight method of governing their horses, so as to ride
them with ease, elegance, aad lately—their liatfe., will be
carefully and cxpeditiouUy broke, for cveiy purpose, and
made okedient to the will of the rider? j the natural powers
which are {hot upin them, will be unfolded by art, calling
forth uniformity of motion, and giving to that noble animal
all thole beauties of aflion which providence has so bounti
fully beflowcd on them.
Also.at hiihofpital, every difor.ter to which the horse it
liable will be treated according to the rules of art, confirmed
by long and repeated experience.
The utility of the above intlitution has never been qneflion*
ed, that it has la>'g been wanted in tins city, every gem leman'i
stud will manifefl, and T. Sw ann as the firll eftahlifher ot
theveterenaryart, folicin and .elies upon the fuppoitofthat
public {which he is ever anxious in serving) to enable to
bring It toperfeaion. The iuea of a fubfeription for that
purpose has beeu hinted by leveral gentleman, who wiih to
promote the inftittition —the amount of each fubfcrip.mn to
be returned bv fcrvices in any of the departments hemo'efTcs,
agret.blt to the rate of charges (fated in his hand bill. Sach
fubicrtption „ now open, and the figr.aturcs of many refp^-
iriinn'i!.T"t I,e i V ° b ! a "" 4 He thcrtfo ' c "lormi hi.
ritnda and fu, h Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has not
that he (hall in , few day, take
.na Sl;; ,Mn{ "poo ihem and loliciting their support
N Hoi fes are properly prepared for ttmfirXa3ie«atia
Gentlemen who wish to be inflmfted.
:V ' UV .j" ■ t th&f.
• DANCING ciCHOOL.
VILLIAM M'DOSGALL will open hi. ichool on Mon
>-ay the J ill inft. at ten o'clock in the morning, at his
i.legant hew Brill Rooms,
In Fourth, between Chefnnt and Walnut Streets.
Hours of tuition for youog ladies, from loto t o'clock
on Mondays, Wcdnefday, and Friday mornings j and for
young gentlemen from 6 to 9 o'clock on the eveninrso
the fame days. 0
In addition to a number of new 'cotillions, he meant to
introduce a variety of Scotch Reels
Note. The firtt praAifing ball to be on Tuesday e
vening, the firft of November, and to be continued every
luefday, during the icafon.
tCrm *' *^ C ' co H u ' re at house, N0.1J4, MaH-'ct-
OS. 17.Philadelphia.
TUESDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 8, 1796.
The rtiip Juno arrived at Baltimore from Brifto'
the 3d inttant, is Rated (o have had only 29 day's
passage, consequently could have brought London
papers to the fccond or third of O&obcr. The
Baltimore paperi however contain only Bristol aq
counts to the 24th September. London accounts
to the have been publilhed several days fine*.
The Courict Francois of this morning mentions
a chcck havfng been received by the army of Mo
>»u on the 12th of September, and a retreat in
wonfeqiience.
The fam* paper fays that the salvation of Mo
restlV a7my dtpends entirely on Wurmfer's being
totally defeated by Buonaparte.
— <
We arc allured that' the following is taken from
the return of the ele&ion for electors of a
and in
LANCASTER COUNTY.
Federal. Anti-federal. 1
Lancaster borough 1*47 *57 1
Upper Cross.Roads '170 62 I
Ephrata 164 19 I
New-Holland * 490 80 I
Lower Croft-Roads 71 195 <
2142 613 I
MONTGOMERY COUNTY.
Federal - . -S3 3
Anti-federal . . * 333 '
< I
200 *
1 MM
WALPOLE, (N. H.) Oaober 18.
PROBABILITIES.
The expe&ed eleiftion of Pcleg Sprague, Esq. '
to complete the federal reprefeutatioa of Newhan.p
fllire—A tranquil session of a really patriotic Con *
jriefs —A better representation than heretofore of "
Pennsylvania. The decadence of new fangled de
mociaay. A majority of Americans voting that r
John Adams, (hall be their second Prefideht, and C
that the man who has so ably defended (hall be the
guardian of their constitution.
( hcjt-r, 08. 17, 1706.
LONGEVITY—-The Rev. Mr. Fuss, of
this town, was born in 1704, graduated at Har
vard College, in 1725* and is the oldest clergyman
in the catalogue. On Saturday last he rode half* 1
ttiile on horfeUack to dine with company. He re-
tains his mental faculties unimpaired ; hears and fees
wqll, and read* with geeat He is a fin- *
cere patriot in every sense of the word ; it very
much plealed with the friendly address of our iiluf
trious President, but is sorry for the occasion.
BY THIS DAY's MAILS.
NEW-YORK, November 7. =
jgp of mo- ,
in the/uit brought Conn.aicuOkr,■ ,
Major Thomas Pirn kney, our late minister a; C
London, had taken pnlfagc on board the (hip Win- Ui
yavv, for South-Carolina, to fail about September ed
32d. r br
P r
The following person, are the e l e a o rs for prefldent
and vice-president for Conneaicut tio
Oliver Wei cot Eh'as Perkins,
Jeremtah Wadfwo.th, Jonathan Trumbull,
Ehjiur Goodrich, ' J c (Te R oot) <H=
Jeiwthan Stu s es, William H»rt.
Herman Swift,
Novemher 4. —
ate anc * Important.
Ey the juno, Captain Peak, arrived yef
ay from Brijtol, me have received the t_
Vrtjlol Gazette to the 24th September •*"
trcLuftve, from -which thefolio-win? ar- »
i teles are extracted
7he Juno had 29 days tafTate. %
V? £
Yefterjay,
five were received at the office of one of hi, majef. '
ty a principal fecretar.es of state. These paper,, the ~
writers of wh.ch can scarcely be of 4ri
eating any thing in,mical to thecaufe of the French T
contain accounts from Jeurdan's army as late ai u
" the ' cc " un<s !t that ' Pic.
fee T J pu.-fi.ed bis flying |"e,
foe , that Jourdan, dnven back to the Rhine, at- i 'f 1 *
tempted on the Bth to make a (land on its right I d
' Austrian A ° f ' he The
Auftrtans, and again experienced a compleat defeat "'i 1
c ° m P l «r. thu it is rr?fonably concluded, his u 6
armyu a most wholly On the q,V bl.ft
. General Jourdan himfelf it stated to have crolTed the' th V
Rhine, with a small body of attendants. TheA U f
tnani were said. be in podeflion of Frankfort.
P i... j.r„,«i4s. 1 ~
So b ', 1 "" *"w" A 1
s "
* a ' c,^ u fce's pid filcccf., would be itftlf ln ", fl" ?, td "
!° ' a -n< .d,i„, b 7 ,1,;," '" h "
W/nail confirm this fappofition. ' H ' m - * S
the cco^!?J*^' bOVe - q,,oted ' fur,h " «»e
T I V,aory Sa " ed U the Tyrol, o-
Mlfc VI a ' my Und " ,he e <»®™«nd of Gen
!J' y ~N " P" ,cul ?" of last affair are gi-' To
„ * acco »"t is corroborated by advice re-
which ihi f k J '' hC Nea P olitan Ambassador,
'°™ e ,dvantJ C:fs gained by the Neapo- * •
°. Srm >'» a£l,n S: »" conjundion with the Auftri A
». .» «.«d.„bkr.,c. : ,h. French.
ss
555? Jordan's defeat and retreat are painted in Ml!
ftrong'er colours than they have yet appeared in this
country. The left wing of his army is said, in a
letter from Wefel of the loth, to have been entire
ly cut off, and that it was not known what had be-
Brifto come of it. The less in artillery and baggage fuf
day's tained by the French, has been very great.
ondon Letters from Cologne of the 9th, Hate, that a
The P al "t of Jourdan't army had then began to cross the
al » Q . Rhine.
:ounts A n article from Ratilbon of the 2d, contains the
nee. account of an a&ion having taken place on the ift
ntiont inflant, between the Auftrians and the French ar
: Mo- my under general Mareau. This a&ion took placa
rat in between Ingolltadt and Geifenftjdt. Morea* was
comple.ely defeated, and the loft is stated to have
Mo- been conliderable on both fides.
being This mail fifeewife confirms the report of general
Maffena's defeat in the Tyrol.
An intimation has been given to our ministers
from from the rmprefs of Rufiia, through the medium of
fluent her ambassador at our court, that Ihc is ready, if a
peacc should no: be immediately concluded, to march
an army ol 50,000 men into Germany, toatS s^ainft
deral. the French, in conjunction with the Auftriaiit. This
7 circumftanie is by no means an unpleasant one, even
2 should a negociation take place. To obtiin fair and
9 honorable terms of peace, it is essential that we
0 (hould be prepared for a vigorous prosecution of the
5 war.
Letters have been received in the city from Leg- -
3 hoi n, dating, in pohtive terms, the death of general
Buonaparte ; but no particulars are mentioned.
3 Mr. Hammond, under secretary of state landed at
3 Scarborough on Monday. He brought over with
him captain Anllruther's dispatches, which be for
-3 warded to town, and arrivtd morning.
No passport, nor any an{wer to the application
said to be made for one, has yet reached this coun
try Whatever that answer may be, it cannot be
Efa '' la! '^ e have rajhlygiven it.
ao.p- The Paiis papers fay, that general Moreau tus
Con ROt P offeffiol, RaiiflMMi, from whence the
re of WerC msul,ln g t0 ta^e archduke in the rear.,
j d e . A" express was re eived la.e lalt night from Pa.
ns, with an account of iume &gnal viaories obtain-
ed hy the French army in Ltaly".
. jhj. — t r
hEIV TRIUMPH OF PUBERAL TSM.
6. — f
0 f DISTRICT OF NINETY-SIX (S.C.) "
ar . Eleaion for Congress.
man Counties. Mr. Harper. Gen. Butler. Majority.
lalf a Edgfield, 35 z 3,6 36 V
: re- rrn f> 355 3°® 55
1 fees Abbeville, 391 66 331
fin. Newberry, 9 8 42J ~
\lul- J6lB 774 g 54
774 t
3392 whele number of votes.
For Mr. Harper, ifiißj for frensial Builgj,
774. Major's «ir. ridipei, £"55. - - 7g
Lw Book Store,
,' C No. 3-3, HIGH-STRKET, ™
. BnVTH announces to Im profeflional friend-, ...
at V-T and the Grntlcmeri of rhe Law generally thro' the
/ill- Union, that his late imputation of BOOKS it now arrung
bcr ed, and ready for Sale, from a Tingle volume to au entire li- "
brary, wnhout any advance upon his former exceedin K low 49
prices, which for fc-ver.l ycai, paA have in so dilltnjrui(bed a 15
manner recommended them to notice.
lent Printed Catalogues combining the most cxtcnGve collec
tion cHha latest Engliih and Irish Editions ever importf-d C)
into thi« country, and will be delivered cutis
on application. 6 ,
Orders addressed to G. D. ia writing frooi »ny distance J-
Ihall be pundtually attended to*
A number of 1 RUNKS for Sale.
ALSO, TO BE LET, 21
A convenient LOFT, near Ma.ket Street Wharf.
NOV " '• .n&f 3 «
ROWLAND PARRT. ]
cf. COLD SMITH & JEWELLER,
'he TTAC- ft No 3S. CHrsNUT-SxRiETi "•
ftV rge lnd ele B ant "fTortment of
,er ~.x RE and J Ew ELLI:KY, jappan
ir- H " y™'- patter.,, ivory :
Handled Knives and Porks, Knift Cases, See. —
the above articles (paticularly the plated) are of a very
fupenor quality, it is presumed they will merit the at
tention ot thoie who >vi(h to purehale, to whotn tbev PT
"* equitable terms.
tJit* »V Uof S,lvcr l"e, Mourning rines and •
, Settings, and every thing iu Gold
| u . Md Silvtr, made us the best manner. 6 l m f
c f. Nov. 8. ' Sup
h e —_____ Ro]
ri - T RF r , TAKE NOTICE. , Der
:h * 1 Daunh^n"'r'" f ■ Gr Painc ' lite of Lancsfcr, or Thi
2S ,ht °c fu ' e ! ch,nu s*» hereby informed, Ditt
.at Plea,of Vt 'r a PP°'" tcd b v 'he Court of Common Ett.
; ,1, iri t l ' dd f l " Coua 'y< " Commiflioners, t. se t . Ditt
"B ! b' y P iI JU S ol Mordccai Lew,,, trurtce, Foli
"* 1 thfuid PrJrr J L * btDcfilof ihc creditor, of Qua
"■ h
I ; "'^"V r e"ue a^d"o7re?eV»t[% t ia. t
;; rtine -^ ifc A,
f- JOHN VAUGHAN, v
£^ V 'D H. CON YNGHAM. t ff or
, , ~ FRANICS WESV. i. ,
t. Philadelphia, Bth November, 1796. *eod 31
" an< *i
... Philadelphia, 6th Nouember, 1706. red r
■" mrflf tl-fii jc ! 11 to contra<a t0 f urn fh for the Ar- ot «
0 tion of tates, thc follow in g articles, or any por- the h
tionoi them, are requefleJ to fend in their propofaisfeal i
fed#n or 15 th December next P P f rom
Tench Francis, Purvey
qj. I penei
7 5 1 Pairtjf leather breeches, ' Al
252 Pair of boots, [ , The patterns maybe to on
E 104s Artillery hats, I viewed at Samuel Hod*- ofhai
sicß Infantry,ha:., } don'., Esq. public ltore feama
4600 Pair of /horj, No. >; | Ol > the firlt wharf above At
Bo»o Pair of rtioe», No. % J Arch-flreet. o[ Gr
; Nov,mt * r8 ' > tu 4 f tDi
FOR SALE, la /
A T f" on Wedsiefday next, if not Bvo. ,
COACH 0 " tt , r Pnvate Sale.—A haudfome Not
CUACH having falfe Venetian Blinds, and lartre
1 of BROWN HORSFS f< "' 'T -P™
fct Lie « ' '* P°°d condition. Terms
of Saie half eafh and half in an approved Note at 60 Alt
, November 7. ,
0 (im THE PANTHEON,
inthi* j nc } RickettS's Amphitheatre,
''? For Equestrian and Stage performances, Corner of
cntlre " ChcTaut and Sjxth-ftreets.
ad be-
jc fuf- TO-MORROW EVENING, Wedncfday, November 9,
The Public are refpt<jtfully informed that
hat a Mr. FRANKLIN, From Loudon,
fs the Bnt 'he Managers of the Royal Cireus, will
make his firft >ppeara»se in America, and exhibit fe
, rcral pleasing feat« in
"'Vft Horsemanship.
h a r- TIGHT ROPE DANCING,
placa By Signior Spinacuta, who will dance on the rope '■
1 was Woo^en Shoes, and perform several other wottder
bave el "' P ecll l' Jr to himfelf. •
Master Franklin, 9 years old,
rneral (Ffcm Aftley's Amphitheatre, Loudon)
Will perform several Pleasing Feats
11 ers On a fmgle Horse, in full speed, for the. third time
im of m Amerka.
if a JVlr. RICKETTS", Mr. V. RICKETTS, Msfter
narch HU7 CHINS and Mr. SULLY, Clown to the Horfe
tn«n!hip, will go through a variety of
This Equestrian Exercises,
even The whole to conclude with the Grand Serious Pan
r aH< * toiaime, under the immediate dirc&ion of
t we MeiTrs. Sully and Spinacuta,
'fthe The DEATH of CAPT. CQOK, .
In the liland of Owyhee, in the Pacific Ocean.
ncral ° ri S inal Mufie, Dances, Decorations, &c. J
The Scenery Painted by Mr. Shaydore. r
e<s at Captain Cook, (of the Resolution) Mr. Sully
with First Lieutenant, Mr. Ricketts
: for- Milfhipman, Mi. F. Ricketti
r . and Marines, Supernumeraries ' -
Ktion Tereboo (King of Owyhee) Mr. Tompkins
K>un- Perea, (the favorite lover of Kmai) Mr. Daraiif
t be Priest, Mr. Duraag
Warriors, Supernumeraries.
Koah, (revengeful lover of Emai) Mr. Spinacuta
1 ha ® Emai, (the King? daughter) Mrs. Spinacuta
Female Wanders, 1 M "- Tompkins, Mrs. Durang, _
r * • 5 and Miss Robinfoa
Pa
• In I- the method of cosrtfhip and ma-riage ce
remony in Owyhee, with a beautiful View of the
liland.
Manner of a Single Combat, with Battle Axes.
In adl 11. the arrival of Captain Cook in the (hip S
Refuliitibn ; his reception by thi King and Warriors
x ut Owyhee ; a War Dance by the Natives , thetr
Preparation for War, and manner of with
r ;,y exact repre/entation
; Of the- Death of Captain Cook, by
the Warriors. p "
In afl 111. the Funsnl Ceremonies made use of
at Owyhee, with a Proctflion of the Natives to the
Monument of Captain Cook, with Military Honors.
Tiie whole to conclude with
An awful representation of a Burn
ing Mountain.
' ■ takes this opportunity of inform
— School, that r he R d '""
Mr. Franklin, to give lefibns in the art
> manatring Horfci, as he finds it impossible to attend to
itjip.eff, in confluence of a variety of bufinef*- I
tfc'- •'■l ™ at P rel ' ent ""gaged in. I
sne , i ' ' JC ancl Gentlemen who fecurefeats in I r
e I,- I,,< "^ a )" t'mc, are requc-fted to attend punctually at 7 ,
low * s , Performances are f > arranged as to conclude by j
:d a 10 n clO'-k—the doors will open at 6. I
Box, 7s. 6d.—Pit, 3s. 9 d. J
Jr t0 he kad of Mr - Foid > at ticket office in —
"• from ten to three o'clock each day. Be
Stis 0- Silver T.ck«.v to admit for the fenfon, to he had
by applying to Mr. !»icketts at tkc Pantheon, or at o=l
- lcrc's Hotel. » j 4
1 3y '° C to be Monday, Wednef- J
<lay t Ihurfday and Saturdar* I (
a For SaleT" ~ ;
— TheSl, 'P CHyf R LOTTE, )
f to ut vcflel, about 150 tons bur- | «
luund and may be sent to I
t'ea at a fmali expence. qv*
of Apply to i
an- Jofepb Anthony and Co. 6
>ry N «• dx. J
■ry w. Young, Mills, and Son. >
at- Have for Sale, a , ITortment of
y PRINTING and WRITING PAPERS
Which will include joo reams of fine demy were print *"
ing paper, r —
a Imperial Folio and Quarto Poft.gdt,
Super-Royal SmallFol.e foft, -in,® J
_ R°r a l Ditto gilt Boat
Medium BloiToiii paper aflTorted part
Demy Transparent Folio Post
or A' p m ' Sup.fiatJccommon Foollcap I
:d, Ditto in 410 Il'larbled papers
r, n Estta large folio Post COARSE PAPERS. r\
:t- Ditto 4to London brown alforted
Folio Post wo T e Log-book paper
of quarto ditto Hatters' paper I Pain'
Its Folio wove post lined Stainers' paper
e ; Quarto ditto do. Common brown I Cop F
a ""'ogiltdo. Pateut &eathing paper Whit
"■ Common size Folio Post Bonnet boards
a _ Oitto quartopliin Bookbinders'boards. Qi
fe ALSO, I ,
A variety of other Stationary Articles:
Viv Wedgwood and glass philosophical Inkstands well
ported pewter mk-chefts ol various files, round , t£r J
ink-stands. paper, bract and pohfhed leather ink-lHnds for x/
— P °t Ct 'J h,Llßg , faDd and sand boxes, pouuee
andpouuee Wes, mk and ink-powder, black lea her and
red morocce pocket books with and without inflrum.nts Mcns
' si! w CS ' coul - tir: g-h'.ii(e avd pocket pen-knives of itie
" r 5 üblet and memorandum books Ditto
" frnmT W4 / cr, » tommcn foe office do. quills Ladiei
otn half a collar to three dollars per hundred, black lead And a
pencils, mathematioal inilruments, &c. &c Coloui
All forts and fizesof blank-books ready made or mad- Wlth
Clf h r n ?' bank : h " ki - Wink bill « of «=hange, «nS note!
. ofhaiid executed in copper.pl*tes, bills of IaSL, manitefts Youth
f seaman's arricle, and journals, &c. &c. * ' Childr
r r W s C v colle<a '°n of mifcellaneovs books. Also A " kil
of GreEk Lat.n, and Englifc Claflics, as are now in use' Koit «
in th« colleges and schoOls ol the United States. Ditto :
«... Pr:.; ""
T " 6 ~ tiwjw. 1
SALT PET RE. — —
A Urge-quantity of Double-Refined Salt Petre f.r
l»le at No. » Jf Swuth Third-Urce:. olE = e . 1
November ?. . . Pri^
atf warran
" For Sale.
E t 7 Cases coarse hats
uer of Copper bottoms ami flicets
Shot, all Gzes, patent and common
Sheet and barr le»d r
. F.nsrlifh ftocj afld boots id cases
lW 9. Tin plate.
Gold watchfi
Taunton ale in calks.
'• w ' Apply to
" f Simon Walker,
1»4, bo. Fourth Street.
N° v - 8. di4t.
UNI I fcD jiis i ts, I it
: rope Pennsylvania District J
ittder- >» hereby given, that purfumt to a writ to me
diieArd, item the Hon. Richird Meters, Efq i f
the Diflnfi Court of the United States, in and tor ihe Peon,
ijlvaniadiftnil, » ill be ex poled to fit, oo Thuridjy the lotb
tnft at il A.M.
1 B»at,
eatS i Kcdgr Anchor)
.I™,. I N f ' w Mamlaii,
time „ , *
s Hall worn do.
, . s Forcfail,
Ijfter , Jik>
lorfe- j flying do*
1 Topsail, and
l Square fail with a bonnet, together v'ith ftindry fltfl-iin*
»nd running ringing, and cables.
Pan- The fame having been libelled against, and condemned sos
the payment of faivage, See.
WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marshal.
Marfhtl'a Office, 8i h Nov. 1796,
FOR SALE,
I fcc* A few hogftieads of choice New-England RUM,
A number of barrels of PORK,
And a few kegs of L.ARJD, of a superior quality.
Enquirt at No. 71, north Water-ttreet."
November 8, 1796 dtf
• - For Sale,
"f By "Jehu Ho!l:ngjwortb, & Ce.
S5 hhds. Weft-India Rum, 3d amd 4th proof,
5 Barrels bed Indigo, and,
II ta A few thousand buihols of Turk's Iflind fait.
OS X 7, 4,
'*ng,
Wm. Holdernesse, No. 76,
HI Gli-STM £ ET t
Mzs received by the late arrivals,
A IVell SeltUed As so KTUBMT Of
(hip Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
[heir Haberdaihery Good",
with Which he wili fell, wholesale and retail, on the very
leu eft terms ;
, AmongJ) i.-bieh nre
uV St.me elegant 4-4 and 7-8 Chintzes and Cottons, new
patterns
Ditto Furniture ditto
eof Ditto Dimity
the Tamboured, Book, aiftl Jaconet Muslins
>r». Ditto in Gold and Silver
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine
rp, Mantuas of the firft quality
Silk and Cotton Hosiery
Umbrellas of the firft quality, aiTorted
I rife Linens, very fine, and Tabic Linens
Marfcillas and Cotton Counterpanes
I Rose Blankets affevsed—&t.
<■, I Odlob«r 26. 1A
>»Cll 1 "
am! I — m
ito I & £j JD
«M London Particular "Madeira Wine,
•in ! ..^ n P l P. e *' hogsheads and quat ter-caflw,
t ? Landing thi* day at Chefnui-ltreet Wharf, an*
hy I for fdle by
j Jofepb Anthsny & Co.
. Nov. !.
Kad Best Boston & Nova-Scotia Mackard,*
)el- I Excellent Halifax Salmon in bbla.
I 47 bbls. prime Coffee,
ief. I Best Bo ft on Beef,
Codtifh in hds.
I Spermaceti Candles,
, Spermaceti, and 1 _, „
I Northern j OIL.
7c <s J^' ld <%> 'allow candles, of a fuperio#
/V w boxes excellent brown soap,
6 Bales of Corks.
40 Pipes excellent Lisbon Wine.
_ A iew sacks of Featlfcrs.
I A few bales India Mullins,
FOR SALE Br
S OJI JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
it- O«ober 31.
dt, Boarding and Lodging- ~
BoJrT° GE i N T L f MEN be accommoda'ed with
Boarding and Lodging, ,n a private family and pleafaat
j part of the ctty. Apply to the Printer, gfl. u tu
a P Jult Arrived,
n \[ he Fl J\ Ca Pta>» Hubl.tr, from London,
Double racked, Brown Stout Porter
I in *
? ™Z£T'- "- 1 10(1 tW£ " ke S'. P-ked ia
j Copperas in hogsheads.
Whiting, &c. For Sale by
M.W „ P " tr fV"-
I a^ttß2W
: I -Wfio Hat and Husmxr Stoke,
111 Wholfsale, and Retail,
!r L 7 WIL LIAM M'DOUGALL,
C I 134 ' Z d door from the corner
dI .. , , °J Fourth, South Side.
) "Is fndprfcr aod EDg,ih Hi "> rf '
j I>itto Drabs and Green*undsrs.
j Ladies' ditto black'
j And a large assortment of fancy ditto
Coloured Beavers
; ° f fafliionable trim.
• t J h '* l ) 1? ck 3ni drib coloured ditto.
Children s fancy ditto
Ditto Drawers
Ditto Breeches Patterns
Silk Gloves
Knotted, coloured ditto, aottoa.
A w UI n tIC L° f " ,cn l in K cotton, sorted colours.
N. B. The hats finilhed in the newel! lalhoa.
- >r eod, m .
Washington LottervT"
•JssrAsr 1 °"" ■" fete.FOR SALE,
An elegant HOUSE, No. 78, Walnut
ftreet; Lying
WtllCH i« 15 feet front, by 171 feet deep, with a
lot'adjoining, v> i-a feet wide, by 7» feet 8 inches
deep (Thit lot it back of the house occupied by
George Willing, Esq.) The house is completely finifh- ln *
ed in every refpe.il. It it 50 feet deep, hat two alortlaic
Urge p rlours, the front one 14 feet, the back one it
41 feet, by 18 i-i sett, a handforae driving-room, Lying
*4 feet by 24 feet Th« room® below, the draw- rivers, 1:
ng-room ar.d the chambers adjoining, have nsihogany Georgia,
doort, and these at well as the rooms above them have
a communication with each other. The height in the Lying
Srfl and second story it 12 feet, and have ltoco cor- rivers, i
nices, and nine rooms up ftairt, befidet the garrett, Georgia
which a. e divided into three rooms, a good kitchen,
walV-holiie, milk and bathing-houfet, ar l»rge ice- Lying
bouse, a pump in the yard, and a 3 feet 3 inch a!Wy, Carolina
that leads into Fourth street, The cellart are laid with
lime, and floored with two inch plank, and plastered. Lying
The yard 11 well paved, and the house is clear ot Carolina
ground-rent. All the rooms have bells in them, and
the chamber belit ring in the garret, as well as in the j n
entijy down stairs. All the chambers have white tiles, .
except the one next to the drawtng room, which has
as well as the drawing room and the two parlours be- ,
low, marble chimney pieces. The dra»ing-room, the Phi.ai
two parjourt belcw, and the entry, are papered up to ■
the third flory: In the room over the kitchen it an 'Tj-.p
open stove. 'In the wash room there is an oven, and
the back buildings, from the cellar, all the way wp formerly
have large cloiets, and in the cellar is a large bottle
rack, a wine store is taken off of the cellar, and three t, z e
bint to hold bottled liquor are made in said room P o '- 111
with padlocks to them ; ihe whole cellar and the cock-
loft art as wel plaflered as any room in the houle.
In short, the house it in every refpeifl completely finifn- so
ed. PoffeSon shall be given in ten days after the g ' r(1
it fold. Two brick stables in Walnut-street, with o) ffe ;
two coach houfet. one of them will hold two cam- jfljgnee
ages, the other one. The fmallelt able has room foi
par crtc
three, and the largest for four horses. It is it 21 feet tn g to ,
front oa Walnut-street by 50 feet, 3 inches deep. 1 hey g 0 the <
hare excellent lofts over them. The building it arc lie 11 c d 14 bi
and laid with lime and two-inch plank, and the cellart -hey w
Will hoM about too pipes of wine : Is clear of ground ble ifth
mis, and has the privilege of an 11 1-2 feet alley, that some th
leads into Pifth-ftreet. Also a brlci store, 33 feet trout him for
on Fouhh-ftreet, by 50 feet deep, which might at a creditoi
small expenre betumed into a handfomt dwelling houie co * nle '
having been so contrived inthe building. It hat a yard in <■ *■
48 feet 6 inches wide, by 24 feet deep, has a rain wa- 01 t0
ter pump, and other conveniences, and the cellar it laid it won <
with two-Inch plank, and is now rented at 40 dollars '"g
per month. 'T his bull'ling is fubjeel to a ground rent or
11 dollart t-4 per annum. The store and stables I would
give immediate possession of. GEORGE MEADE.
No. 78, Walnut Street. T
Terms of payment for the foregoing property, vii.—
'16301 may lay one year certai*, after the sale and if Phil,
theinterefl is regularly paid, that humane, worthy,go«J,
and frier-fly man, Edward Sties, Esq. fays it may J.y 5*7
as long as the<purchaf;r please' (purely he faya to oblige
*ie) the ititerefl being regularly paid. t jj e qj.
48C0I. to be paid in approved note 1 :, and approved in
dorfersat 12 Bionths, the remainder in approved n«t«s a
and approved mdorfcrt, at 15, sB, and 24 months, the £ ora [j.
property to be feeared for the payment. The (tables may dimie'
be paid for in like manlier, and the store too, all but 4000
dollars, which mufi be paid in an approved note, and ap
proved indorler, at 6 months, th« whole payable with Phil
interest.
OA. »6. n
— = — „d w
To bo Sold,
AT PUBLIC VENDUE. »ord,
, , , and A
On ThurftUy the 6/4 day of April next, at 1 Z otlotk. kr> 4
at Dturforty's tavern, in the town of Winchtpr, t othe
in Virnnia, the fallowing lands, situate in the said for a 1
°. and in
Jlate, w*. pound
No. 1.—430 Acres. Barto
Of excellent land on the ,waters of Back-crtelt, in vefy (
Frederick county, on the great road '"ding to the p (
South Branch, a out ten miles from Wmchefter, 100 1
•icres of which is rich bottom, a fine flream running 1
through it, with several l'prings, the trees m the bottom
are chiefly lugar maple, black walnut, hickory and lo- I
cult. There is a log dwelling and out-houies, lome 1 .
ro-adow made, and 40 acres of upland cleared. On are n
this tract there is a good mill fe.t, where an under- 14th 1
(hot-ihtll might be erefled. ol th
N'j. 2- —800 Actet. 'he
Situate in Hampfliire county, on the north branch bug,
of the Potowmack, and on a branch called Cabbin-run I
about eight miles from Fort Camberhnd. On this py
trail is a large quantity of rich bottom, fit tor meadow
or the culture of hemp, the upland remaikably good, j <r,
being chiefly timbered with walnut and hickory. Ihe ajfig,
aWove trad it in two l'urveyt of 400 aeret each. I
Np. J. —»oo Acret.
Situate in Franklin county, about ten milet from J
Winchefler. On this tra<ft there it a dwtllinj house A h
and part of the land it cleared, the remainder ia finely "Z 10
timbered. , FP ;
No. 4. —A Lot of Ground. fcta ,
Tn -the town of Woodftocfc, Shanandoah county, I
wherecn is ereaed i. two story house, and other im
provements, and a ten acre lot for the convtniency of
said town lot,
- No. 5 — 2JO Arret.
Situate about two miles from Woodftock. Part oPI
this trail is in cultivation, it finely timbered, and a good
quantity of meadow may be maiie.
No. 6—400 Acre*. j j
Situate in Hampfliire county, on George Andet't mill 1 —
run., on a branch of the Cafapchon. This trail is finely |
timbered, there is good bottom land, which might be
easily converted into meadow. I
No. 7 One moiety of 5000 Acres.
Lying an the wateri ef Hughes's river, in Harrifon j
county. This was purchafctl at one quarter of a dol- 14"
lar per acre, -c i(h above 8 year« ago.
No. 8—41,900 Acres. Sb
Lying in the counties ;'f Wvthe, Washington, and 1
Grayfon (the greater part in Wythe,) on the waters
ef Cripple creek and I'ox creek, branches of New Ri- j
ver, and on the sooth fork of Holltein. | .
No. Acres. I
Lyingfin'the county of Hardy, on the waters of Great J
Cacapion and North River. 1
The terms of payment will be one third part of the I
purchase money to be paid in haHd at the time of ex- I
erutihg the deed or deedt of conveyance, the remaining
two thirds to be paid in equal iiiflalments, at 12, 18, d
and 24 months thereafter tecuring those paymenti by r
mortgaging the preiuifes. .
Should any peilon wilh to purchafc at private lale,
•pplicstion may be made to John Holker, E»q. near
Winchefler ; David Holmes, Esq. oY Wincheller i or .
by letters, (pofl paid,) to the fubferiber in Philadel
phia, being the owner of said lands, who will perfoi.a!
fy as.end the lale on the day abovementioned.
George Meade.
Philadelphia, ad ol November 1796.
diw wks 1 Mdt.V.
To be Sold, JiSni
60,400 Aem of Land. ley,
Lying on therivef Alleghany, in the county of Nor
; thumberland, in the State of Pcnnfylvaaia. Raffia
° 400 Acres Land, Do.
In Bald Eagle townihip, Northumberland county Do.
e c a
> Do
, 60,000 Acres Land, Do
, Lying on the waters of the Oconee and Canouchee
- rivers, in the coauty of Washington, In the lute o.
y Georgia. Do
e 174,000 Acres Land, pO
- Lying on the waters of the Ohopee and Casouchee R 3ve ,
- rivers, in the county of Montgomery, in the llatf 01 IGnp-l
', Georgia. 1 '"J*
1, ji 053 Acres I.and, Rutlii
Lying in Orangeburgh diftnfl, in the fta'e of Sou J: Do.
> Carolina. And,
h 146.986 Actes Land, l °
Lying in Charlelton diflridl, in the said ftateof South
11 Carolina.
u An Half acre Lot of Grond,
e In the town of Richmond, Virginia.
'' The above Lands will be fold low.—Apply to i
'* George Meade.
,e Philadelphia, 2d November, 1796. 'dlww&stf. corfi
0 •
,d The Creditors of Scott and M' Michael, naxt
n formerly merchants of this city, and who failed m the uyer
le year 1763, or 1764, (and from whom the l'ubfcn <* pur- ing ,
chafed- bills of, exchange to amount ot several hundred
pouudt fterhng, which ha« lain by hun ever since,) are No.
l. requested, xvikt man ar thim that is living, to n»ect at Q uate< i
• the City-Tavtrn on Tui-fday, the 15th of November next, ©
l," at 6 o'c ock inthe evening, in order to obUge are cltf
Cox, formerly of this city, now of New-Jersey, and John Little 3
f Bayard, formerly of said city, and fpcaker of the Houle
. ot Assembly as said ft-te, now of Brunfwick. New-Jersey, Nc
aflignees of said Scott fe M'Michael, to come iorward aad crfl w
or pav over the moniesthey have had in their hands belong- g^obe
iet tng to the creditors these 32 or 33 years. Some years a- countJ .
ey g 0 the creditors were called together ; Mr. Cox appear- Nc
ed c d 14 behalf of himfelf and Mr. Bayard, and alleged crJ , w ;
lr » they were apprehensive they might be brought into Irou- 0( < lo i ie
ud ble if they parted with the n>oney (which I apprehend is No
at some thoufauds,) as his Britannic Majesty had a debt due creS)W ;
4t him for government bills: it was however agreed Pv tiw fjtuat 10
a creditors met, th it the affigiees thuul.i take the opuuon of No
ife couniel j they did so, and it was that they would beiafe perchcl
rd in dividing the money among th« creditors. I urg*d Mr. . j
, a . Cox to bring the butinefs to a final close ; hit aufwer was, , milcs a
,jd it would be but a trifling sum ; my reply was, if ever lo . well fi|
lrs trifling, 1 would have my proportion of it. It has how- feet by
_f ever lain over. , ' witbtt
, H I therefore hope the creditors will now come forward vaJl(
'' and oblige the affigneos to divide whatever they have, and
*"' they onght to pay intwcll too. and ra
_ George Meade. indepi
if Philadelphia, td November, 1796. dtijN- n«m.
j No
|' ; t The creditors of the late Abel james, b^ h
lge who flopped payment in 1784, are requested to meet at .
. the City-Tavern, on Taefday, Bth November, at 6 ocloci No
in the evening, in order to oblige the alßgnees, (jonn s corn
'* S Field and others) to close their afifairs: My demand is j m;r fl(
for a balance due on a returned bill of lOOOl.d.erling,coits, j e( g. to
'Jl damages and iatet-ell. eded;
George Meade. stree t,
rilh Philadelphia, November id, 1793. dt*
—-1 vr vrTdifors of Van Vleck and Barton, fsp^
tad William Barton, & Co. (who failed in the year 1784)
to be ]
are sarneltly requested to meet at the City-r avern, on phU|
Wednesday the 9th November, at 6 o'clock In the evemng o
in order to oblige the surviving aflignees, Stephen Aultin, tllc r(
. and Andrew Hodge to close these affairs. J°bn Chand-: with
ler, deceased, who was one of the assignees, once oßertd ,
Itr, tothe fubferiber 12/6 in the pound for his debt, which is
f,aid for a returned bill of 8000 guilders, with costs damages
and interest, and the aflignecshave never paid but if is the
pound, though they advertised goods belonging to William
. Barton & Co. in the year 1784 or 1785, and allowed o
> very creditor the literi Jof buying to the amount of i</ in
1 the pound of their debts.
!°° George Meade.
t!"m Philadelphia, November 2d, 1796. dtgN. At F
ome The Creditors of Clemeirt Biddle & Co. A
On are requested to meet at the City-Tavern on Monday the Cont
ider- 14th inft in order to oblige the assignees to a fettlemuit 0 f h
of then affairs, which have lain ever these twelve years : t ,d 1
the fubferiber's demand is tor a returned bill 01 ipod fter- or d e
inch I ling, damages 20 per cent, and interefL of ft
■run. George Meade. Hniv
this Philadelphia, 3d November, 1796. dtMN.
,dow I - me | )
;ood, j The foregoing aA-v*rtifcmtnts are a good specimen of 1
The afzneel. Icouid £, - a further oneifitwus necejar * po ' f
I j ontt
from To be Let,
house I A large cellar, in Walout-ftieetjuft above Foarth-Street, that
finely I's Bo<"«d with two inch plaak, and will hold upwards ot too
pipes of w ne. , . '
Also, a Stable and Coach-house, that will hold four bor he '
I fesand iwo carriages; and several floret in Fourth Street — for
wty, Apply w gas
rim George Meade. wh
lCy ° f Who has for sale, J
s| boxes of Cattile soap } roc
'art Hcd Lisbon Wine I 1
a o-ood A few P'P" of bi " of exchange wine j <
I A few barrels ol Uilh mess beef I _
I And a few barrels of Qtip bread.
, .J Nov 4-
i s mill 1 _ T
s finely Irish Linens, ccc.
ight be
Imported per the ships Glafgoui, from Duilin, Liter
8* tj, front C»rlt, axd trig Mentor, from Be fa/I,
4 - 4 and 7-8 Wide IRISH LINENS, A
In whole and half boxes,
J Assorted from I id. to 4s. flerling —Also J-4 wide j
, I Sheetings, and low priced yarn and worfttd Host. I _
5n ' and On Hamd,
: waters I , ,
-_ w 1 7.0 Wide Lawns.
I Dupers and Table-Cloths |\-
{ A few boxesTickens and Checks | c
. _ I A few bales Flannels j 0
jf Great I Cork an d Belfall Sail Clotlj, No.. 1 and 6 1 b
I 4j Boxes f 6by 8, I v
rt of the 10 Ditto [ Window Glass, <7 by 9, It<
le of ex- I s Ditto J i. Bby 10. It.
imaining I The above mentioned Goods are all entitled to the I h
t 12, 18, drawback, and will be disposed of by the package on j t
nucnts by reasonable terms.
James, Clibborn & Englifti, ,
rate sale, No. 6, N. Front-street. 1
ifq. near lot jj mo joth. dtf I 1
eller; or __________________ I ]
SSS" To be Sold,
The Time of a smart, a&ive Negro Lad, I
ide. Who hat Eleven years to serve.
Enquire st Na. ;8, South front flrcct. |
Mdt.V. OAoher 18. I }
Just Landing,
At South Jlrtet- wharf, from on board the /hip Sedg-
lej, Captain Hodge, from St. PelerJ lurg,
The following Goods J city of
Raffia Sail Duck, firft quality. } ho
Do. Sheeting do. daily pi
Do. Diaper. Wn > Ba .
Do. Huckaback. m « c,al
Do Craft 111 noi:
Do. Mould Candles, A, S 6 » 10 the lb - ' f *** .
English size. r
Do. White Candle Tallow. Wl ',
Do- White Six-P in small boxes. °^' t
Do. Cordage of fine yarn. thc cho
Ravens Duck.»»P r
lfinelaf., ift and r- nd fort - , ,
llorfe Hair uncurled. pro Juc
Russia Bar Iron. *' ar S!
Do. Hoop Iron. acconir
Do. Nail Rod*. hours r
10 Ton? Oakum and Jinrk. regular
St. Feteilburg Clean Hemp. at r* B
For Sale by The
Philips, Cramond, & C*. «.
OAobcr l»- tgf
Valuable Real Estate,
For f, tit at Auflion by Casper Thiell, of Hamburg, himleli
late the property of James and William Kinncar. lerve
For sale by public a«aion,on the 9th day of November
' next ensuing, at the iign of Gen. Waftiington, \\ ood s _____
: tavern, borough of Reading, Berkscouuty.tfte fo}low
' ing real estate, vii. . . ... AM
1 \ TRACT of land containing 405 acres witn Wa[er
: No. I J\ a Dowance for road., called the Purchaft, j- ame T
' Cuated :'n Brunfwick townihip, Berks county, patented, nonh
' ,3th o Jan. 1788 This trad, of which about aj acre. | dweHi|
' are cleared, is of good-foil, situated o» the Tomajjua, or c
1 Little Schuylkill, well watered and timbered, oa which is wtUp ,
" created a good log dwelling house and ftaule. stores,
'* No. a. A trail of unimproved Und, containing a»4 a- rj
1 ere., with allowance, &c. callqd Hopewell, patented aßth thfrJ
' OAober, 1790, situated in Brunfwick tewufliip, Berks a fram
sounty, foil good. ... . ■ bound
No. ?. A trad of uuimpi-oved land, containing 3, 6 a- .My,,,
1 ere. with allowance, &c. called HilHburg, patented aßth q{ (hf ,
" Oiftober 1790, situation, &c. as No,a. COCK
® No. 4- A trail «f unimproved land, 38S a . ]
e cres,with allowance, &c. patented »Bth of Oflober, 178*, Thf
* situation, &c. as No. land 3. b«(l fu
No i- A tracl of land, containing a6B acres, and 3a
e perche., with allowance, &c. situated inßrunfwjcktown- yy
■ I ihip, Berks county, on Vouiagua, or little Schuylkill, 5
5 ' miles above the town of H.mburg.on which u ere&ed a
0 I well fimfhed two story fquaredlsg dwelling houfc, a; IT7
'■ i feet by within the distance ofioo perche.from a forge. VV
. j with the advantage of a ferry and public houfc; these ad- two h
, vantages render this trail very valuable. a Car
d No 16. A town lot in Hamburg, enclosed with a poit tomac
and rail, or board fence, containing in front, 60 feet, and
in depth igc, feet, fubjea to a ground lent of 7; 6per an
""no. 17. A town lot in Hamburg, enclosed as no 16, to
. which it adjoins, being of the fame dunenfions, and fubjcA
' to the fame ground rent,on which is ereSed * log ftab.e,
Vl6 by iS-feet . „
No. 18. A town lot in Hamburg, adjoining to No IJ,
,n a corner lot, fronting on Main and Schuylkill ten d,-
" I menfions the fame as No. 16 and'. 7, above described, lub
' ie<& to 10/0 per annum ground rent. On this lot is «-
eiled a large 1 ilory dwellinghoufe, 4J feet on Maia
street, 34 feet ia depth on Schaylkill flrcet, pleasantly
' J4. B. The above defenbed three town will be fold
fsparately or together, a* may best fu t the
' Condition, of sale—One third »>f the purchase «*eaer g>-
4) t0 be paid to the subscribers, or cither of thun in Phllader-S
---on phia, at or bef ire the expiration mniih Ir^LJ^gO-^w-r
ng day of sale, when a deed of conveyance will be executed ; n
the residue payable in aequalpayments, at 6 and ia month, delaj
* i with interell.the payment whereof to be secured by mart- notic
' ; gage »n the premises. Sv
1 " fames Henaerfon, 1 Affigneesto draw
Frederick MontmolHn, I the estate of the 1
am Thomas Rogers, f J- i . rtlCT f Wm -
JtJtpb D. Drinker, J K ' nn « ir -
September a 6. m t^> -
"" Loft Last Evening,
At Ricketts's Amphitheatr', (supposed to be taken by
some villain out of a gentleman's pocket) c
~",0. A red Morocco-Leather POCKET-BOOK,
the Containing about 185 dollars in bank notes; three note*
pnt 0 f hand of Rofs and Simfon, No. 304, 305 and 306, da- '
irs 1 t# d tathlaft August, payable 60 dafs after date, to the XI
order of Paul Siemen, together for i 150 dollars; an order i 1>
of Mr.. Ann acpherfori, from Paul Siemen, on Lach- ; unti
lin Mac Neal, Esq. at Port-au-Prince, f.r 100 dollars; be- fu.r
fidus several letter s and papers of no use but to the proprie- for
tor The notes of hand and order are without endorse- Jtin
f ment. EIGHTY DOLLARS REWARD is offered to day
" a ny person who will difcove- and secure the thief, and aft;
ar J~' FORTY DOLLARS for only bringing the above menti- , Pje
ontd notes and paper* at No. 119, corner of Front and Ri\
Mulberry flreets. — ' ' OA,Jt. -
[ ! »o» ~ |
BEGS leave to inform the La<Jie« and Gentlemen, that
bor he wUI open his RIDING SCHOOL on the ijl of Nov. gu
ei— for llic inf;ru3ion of Ladies and Gentlemen ir. the.ele
gaat accomplilkmcnt of riding and managing Iheir horses M
-with ease to themfelvcs.
Mr. Ricketts has well tiained Horses for the iccom- m ,
raoditiou of Ladies and Gentlemen for cxercife, to pay
monthly. Pupil, to pay by the season, or by the lefTon. po
Horses triined to the road or field. be
O&eber a 4.
THIS DAY PUBLISHED, lo
By J. ORMROD, No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet,
(Price 1* i-a Ceou) pi
The President's Address
r " To the People of the United State«,
.L c Announcing his intention of retiring from public life
No, - t the expiration of the present constitutional term of
prefide&cy.
wide Stpkmh,r ao. d
STOP THE 'IHIEVES !!! c a
LAST Wedncfday Evening, Oaober 19, Dctwecn the g
hours of 7 and 10o'clock, the bed room of Mr Ricketts in
O'E'nrr'a hotel w«s «mered, cither bv means of falfc key ~ •
1 or at the v. ir»dow, by some vHlain or villains, who wuft have '
been acquainted wi h the situation of ihe house (as the door
was found locked after they had commi'-ed the theft) who *
took away from amongst several trunks, ONE which con
tained a valuable part of Mr. Rickett's property, but of which
to Ac he is not yet able to afo rtain the contents particularly. 1
age on ter biiliging the said trunk away, and emptying it of up
wards of a thou (and dollars in cash and t\ank notes, the vtl
n lains left k behind the circus, during the time that the per
' foimances of the evening were goinj» forward
:-ftreet. j t j 8 carneftly requested, that ail tavern-keepers on the ftaj;e
tf roads, and the ferry houses, as well as all civil officers, may
■ be watchful in teeming lufpicious persons. who day have a
redundance of calh, which their appearance would by no
means bespeak them 17 be pofleffed of.
Lad, One Hundred Dollars Reward
Will be given for securing the thief or thieves, snd a fur
ther reward for fecaliog then with the property.
f Odt at- i
Samuel Richardet
Respectfully informs the Gentkmm
Merchants, that he has this day opened the GJTY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in the
city of Philadelphia-
The Subscription Room will be furnifhed with all the
daily papers published in Philadelphia, Niw-York, Bos
ton, Baltimore, together with thole of the principal coi*>
mercial cities of Europe—They will be regularly filed
and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
of French Liquors; together with the nfual refreihments,
will at all times be procured at the bar.
GoJtlemen may depend on being accommodated with
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the nioft
approved IMalt Liquors frootLondon and o'her breweries.
The Larder will befupplied with the prime ami earliest
produflions of the Season.
Large and small Parties, or fiugle Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or tfnpptrs, at
hours mod convenient to themfelves —.1 cold C .ation is
regularly kept for conveniency, th« Billof Fare to be had
at the bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifllcd, and
the utmost attention paid to cleaiiliiiefs, and every other
requisite. •
tg? Samuel RicHARDETwiII bchappyto rcccivc, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledge#
> himfelf that nothing on his part fhalihe wanting to pre
serve that patronage with which he has been so diftinguifh
ingly iionored.
I Philadelphia, April 19. mwf
- TO BE SOLD,
. A lOT of GROUND, 164 feet 7 inches front on South
, Water-street, and bounding on the Delaware about the
' fame width, with a whari thereon in good repair On the
' north fide adjoining Pun alley, i» a large and well built
1 ! dwelling h«ufe, and counting house, communicating with
! r each other, 47 feet wide, afpaciois kitchen, and other
15 well planned accommodations, and below these a stack of
stores, 62 feet in front, by 9J feet in length, built a few
years ago; on the remainder of the lot on Wa:er-ftreet,
there are two ancient brick dwellings, a Cooper s shop, &
' S a frame {lore, now occupied by Mr. Alexander Tod, and
bounds adjoining the stores of the heirs 01 the late Joseph
J* Wharton. It will be better described by droits and p.ans
of the ground, and buildings, to be fcen at JOHN V> IL<-
COCKS's tempting hoofe, ore tHei-rewifes, aiKlof whom
!" particulars of fa!e may be obtained.
' The whole will he fold together, or det»ched as may
„ b«it suit the purchaser.
J : Wafhmgton' Canal Lottery,
nO. 1.
17 THEREAS the State of Maryland has authoriftd
e, VV the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
1- two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the puijpofe of cutting
a Canal through the City of Washington, from th Po;
tornado the Eallern Branch Harbour.
id The following if the SCHEME of No. I.
u- Via -1 Prize of 10,000 dollars, 10,000
I ditto 10,000 *0,000
S —
le, 6 ditto 1,000 6,000
10 ditto 400 41 300
7i 40 ditto 100 a,OOO
55 ditto JO »>7J°
ib- J 7jo ditto ii 69,008
tr * To be railed for ih« Canal, 16,1.50
ua ___
'IT jSjO Pri»«s, *750°°
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
>Id _
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars. - 17^,000
IST &j" The PammiffiwlfP " " '■' '
"fpjtrra ny atafewM SffT lor the pnniftual payment »I
jiT** >h4 |l| illlißi ——■ - -
; The drawing of this Lottery wiH commence, without
th' ; delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timely
,rt " notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after the
sto drawing is finilhed, shall be consider. das relinquished for
of the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accoidmgly,
> m . (Sirntd) NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, »/D.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
— GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M. DUNCAN-SON,
THOMAS LAW,
1 b 7 JAMES BARRY.
City of Wafhiogioß, Feb. 11. 5
Treasury Department,
d a . . Siflemler 28, 1796.
the XTOTICE is hereby given, that proposals will be re
rder ceived at tlie office of the Secretary of the Treasury
ach- until the expiration of the firft day of March mat en
be- suing, for the supply of all rations which may he required
>rie- for the use of the United States, from the fir *1 oay of
>rfe- June, 1797, to the thirty-firft day of May, 1798, both
1 to days inclusive, at the places and within the diflrids hs.ro
and after mentioned, viz. At Ofwego; ;t Niagara; at
EHti- . Pjefque ltle; at Sandufky Lake, and o 1 Sandufky
and River; at Detroit; at Michilimackinac; at Fort-trank
_ li», -it Pi. .ft..... I. ..■ nil. »■ 1 1' — «"1m 1 "
at Fort St. Clair-, at Fort-J-fferfon; at Orenvitte; at
Picquc Town and LoramiesStore; at Fort Adams; at
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance ; at any placj below Fort
that jj e g-,^ e OB t he Miami River to Lake Eric; at Fort
, ' | Steuben ; at FortMafTac ; at any place from FortMaiUe
;-ele- j to the south boundary of the United States on the river
01 Miflifippi; at Fort Knox ;at Ouiatanon.
If fusplies (hallbe required lor any poftsor yfjees not
com " mentioned in this notice, afl such supplies shall be iut
' P ay nifhed at pricos proportioned to those to be pjid at the
polls before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed on
between tlie United States and the Contractor.
The rations to be supplied are to consist of the Id
lowing articles, viz.
One pouod two ounces of bread or flour.
et, One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounces ef
pork or bacon.
Half a gill of rum, brandy rr whiskey.
It# 00 Q ne q uar t half a pint of falt."^
Two quarts of Vinegar, C per hundred ration*
ic life Two pounds of Soap, {
■rm of One pouud of Candles, J
Therationsare to be furnilhed infuch quantities, astnat
there shall at all times during the said term, be fuScicnt
for the consumption of the troops at Michilimackinac, Vc
troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, for the term of fix month* m
, advance, and at each of the other polls, for the term of
" cn lht a . Jeaft three months in advance, in good and wholelome
"V* provisions, if the fame fkall be required. It is-to bernv
"fl derllojd, that the Contra&or is to be at the expente and
j Vf 1 ifk of iffuirgtlie fuppH«s to ths trooys at each pod,
Fa who that all losses sustained by the depredation, of an enemy.
■1, con- by means of the troops of the United ■ ' Pon
,f which for at the price of the arfchs captured or jeftroy ,
y. M- the depofitiom of two or naorc pirfons of creditrtl
tof un ractcrs, and the certificate of a commiffioncd _o®«. ■.
the vi'l- cextaining the circumstances of the loft, and the '
the per of the ai ticks for which compensation fhal. bed.»*ie
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
the flaise Secretary of the Treasury.
ers, m»y — — ■* —
' ' IiVC a — VT rp.
I by no PRINTED BY JOHN FENNU,
d —No. 119 —
id » fur - CHESNb'T-STREET.
( [Prioc Fight Dollars per Annua!.)