tof the States, Daily Advertiser.
KVMBMM 1343.] WEDNESDAT^ENING, DECEMBER 28, 1796. . [VOLUME X.
# A C A R D.
If Monjieur G., H. S'oßLt,
Who left Bordeaux the aoth June last, and arrived
at Boston s.bout the middle of August, in the schooner
Jane, it in Philadelphia, he is requested to call en
Joseph Anthony & Co. No. 5, Chefnut-ftreet, who
will give him fomt information of importance.
December 24, 1796. §
Clocks and Watches.
LESLIE AND PRICE,
No. 79, Market-strekt, Philadelphia,
~ HAVE IMPORTED, by the late arrivals from
f London, 1 large assortment of WARRANTED
| WA-l CHES, e:onfifting of horizontal, capp'd and
jewel'd Gold Watches, with seconds, of superior
workmanship and elegance ; also capp'd and jewel'd
and plain Gold Watches ; capp'd & jewell'd, capp'd,
seconds, day of the mouth, and plain Silver Watches;
eigltt day & chamber Clocks; elegant French Clocks
•with marble fra.mes j eight day and thirty hour, brass
vorks, &c.
Decembet it, 1796. dam
Imported from London Es 9 Liverpool,
EARTHEN WARE, in crates and hogsheads, well
assorted j
Wine Bottles in hampers
Window Glass of all fi7ei
Two cafet 0/ stationary
One cbelt of yellow Jesuits Bark
Two cases of Roll Arnotta
A small consignment of Rdfe Blanket*, Flannels,
Baizes, Broad-cloths, Coatings, Plain l !, &c.
Paint, of various colors.
Ba/ket fait ia hoglheads.
Also on hand,
Madeira wine, very aid, in pipes, hogsheads and
quarter calks
Holland gin in pipes, firft quality
Anchors of different fisres
A few trunks of ladies French fooes assorted
Silk nankeen,&c.
Likewise an assortment of Dutch goods, consisting of
Ofnaberj'S, ticklanbergs, bed-ticks, stripes, checks.
Morlaix linen, platillas, ra»ens duck, Britannias, &e.
And for sale by the package only by
Thomas & John Ketland.
Walnut-street Wharf.
Nor. if. eotf
FOR SALE,
The fnjl-failin^ schooner ORION}
Seventy tons burthen ; fifteen months
old ; her frame is of the bell of white
oak : /he is a taithfnl built veflel, handsomely finiibed off
and wull found in every partieular ; is ready to receive a
;■ eargo en board, and can be put to sea without any ex
pence «n her hull, fails or rigging : Ihe stows fix hundred
barrels; has a handsome cahin and lteerage, and a half
dtcli which will flow from feverty-five to eighty barrels;
kas been newly caulked, graved and painted. For terms
apyly to BENJAMIN RHODES,
At No. 170, eorfier of Market a.id Fifth-ftreets,
Or to the Captain on board said fchouner at Messrs.
Willis and Yardfley's wharf, adjoining Clrefnut-ftreet
wh.irf; where there is for sale
Excellent pickled Salmon in barrels,
tie best of American Mess Beef, and some very excellent
Boston manufaiftured Chocolate.
December 16 $
fjiSL For Sligo and Killibegs,
JmWwH dmeriean Ship Nancy,
Cuthbert Riggs, master.
Will fail with all convenient speed, For
freight or pafl'age apply to
William Bell ;
Who has for faje,
4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well assorted
3 Bales Irish Flannels, and 2 boxes Lineni
a; Pipes Brandy
Madeira Wine ; Indigo. Rnffia MatU,
Also,
A few barrels Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
OATMEAL, &c.
November 11, 1796, mwftf
—L. 1 1 —■— —— " ■,
FOR SALE,
7 HE SHIP MART,
' SAMUEL PARKER, Masti?,
»3K t »S3' ! hundred tons burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MARY is not fold in a few days, (he will take
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
October 31. d •
For Sale, or Charter,
The Ship DIANA,
6gY2§p£vj Samuel Pile, Master,'
Burthen *oj 47*95 tons register, built in
Philadelphia in the year 1792, of live oik
and red cedaT, and was Ikeathed 13 months ago, fbe
has just had a compleat out-fit, and may be Tent to sea
at a very trifling expence.
For terifts apply to
Philip Nicklin & Co.
Who have for sale en board said vejel,
1) calks of fine yellow paint.
9 boxes and ia bundles of writing slates.
1 box ink stands and note presses.
14 bales of fail eanvafs.
And on hand,
Imperial *)
Hyson, and, > TEA S.
Souchong J
40,000 pieces Nankeen* of the firft quality.
19 tuba Quicksilver.
a chests Bandanno handkerchiefs.
A few chsfts Manchester goodswell assorted in Cor
duroys, thicksets, Ginghams, Muflinets, Dimities,
3 boxes black sewing silk.
xBo crates Queens ware well assorted.
10 tons sheet lead.
Nails assorted, flat and (harp points. (
London Particular, Madeira Wine in pipes (
London Market, r an{ j hogsheads. (
New-York Market, J
40 pipes an.d 10 hoglkeads Tenerific wine.
i tierces Snake Rot>t.
logs Mahogany.
NOV 7. ' '
Bank of Pennsylvania, I $th Dee. 1796.
The Stockholders are requested to meet
At the BankonThnrfday, the twenty-ninth instant, at
d 10 o'clock iH the morning.
■ r By order of the Board,
n ROBERT RALSTON, Cafliier,
0 §ti9th Pro tem.
Fashionable Waistcoating.
GEORGE DOBSON, No. 25,
SOUTH THIRD-STREET,
Has received per the Diana, from London,
Clouded and ftrfped Sptrtifh Swanfdown
Clouded Erminats and Mqlelkms
•j Striped do. and da. ♦
j Figured Manillas
r Scarlet figured Erminets
j Printed
Do. Caflinets and Caflimeres
| Superfine printed Quiltings, newest pattern*
Also, per different arrivals,
• s A large and general assortment of Dry
Goods,
Suitable to the present and approaching season.
November ' dtf
1 Insurance Company of North-America.
THF STOCKHOLDERS in this company are desired
to take notice that the fccond Tuesday in January, (being
the 10th day of the month) is the day fixed by charter for
the elg<stion of tvre«ty-five Dire<stors for the enfaing year.
The will- be held at their office, and commence
o'clock, M.
Th« fubj«£ the bye-laws of the Corporation will be
submitted to their consideration at this meeting. ,
EBENEZER HAZARD, SecVy-
Dec. I*. tthioj
FOR SALE,
1 At Whitefides' Tea Ware-House,
No. 99, North Second Street.
Imperial r Hyson Skin.
Hyson, C Fresh Teas. < Souchong,
Young Hyson, J CBohea
Dec. 9. 3taw;m.
Insurance Company of the State of
Pennsylvania.
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, that an election
for thirteen Directors to serve for one year, will b« held i
at the Company's Office, ©n Monday th« 9th January next, j
at II o'clock.—And agreeably to the as. of incorporation 1
a fkatement of the affairs of the company, will then be
laid before them.
SAMUEL W. FISHER, S«c'y.
Philadelphia, December 19, 1796. dt 9th Jan.
r Philadelphia and Lancaster Turnpike
1 Road Company.
A Meeting of the Stockholder for the Election of
* a President, Managers - , and 01* officers, will be
f held.at the Company's office on Monday the 9th Jan.
' next, at is o'clock.
By the Borrd.
WM. GOVETT,Sec'ry.
' December 8, 1796. uwtiftj.dt9 h
Imported in the late urrh' lis from Europe end the
lYcjl- Ijttiies,
< Holland Gin, in pipes
c Choice St. Croix Sugar and Kum
Martinique MolafTis, in' hoglheads
Choice old Lisbon Wine, in pipes and quarter-casks
London Particular & London Market Madeira Wine,
in pipes, half-pipes and quarter-ca&s r
Malmsey Madeira Wing, in pipes and quarter-csfks
TsnerifFa Wine/ in pipes
Ruffla & Flemish Sheeting and Ravens Dut'k, in Cajfes
Window Glass, 3 by to, in boxes ,
Coffee Mills and Straw Knives, in casks
Mill Saws and Cross-cut Saws, in boxes
Also, on hand,
A few cherts of Bohea Tea ; Jefuit9 Bark ; Aftifos
tida indTapiooa; and a few bales of Collies,
Gnrrahs, Bandanna and Muslin Handker
chiefs, and a complete assortment of 5-4 and 6-4
• Bjulting Cloths.
For Sale by
Pragers £9° Co.
ftflober 10 d2wm&tham
For Sale,
By the Subfcribers—ln PENN-STREET,
65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
Imported by the EagU.
WILLI NGS & FRANCIS.
Nov. 30 w&f
Elegant Brufiels & Turkey Carpeting,
For falc by George Dobfbn, No. 25, South Third-street.
December 15. dtf
Women's Cloaks. /
GEORGE DOBSON,
No. 15, South Third-street,
Has just reeeived, per Eagle, Caps, Fofdick, Via J.on
don, an assortment of
Scarlet
Drab ( Cloaks trimmed with lur and
Purple and ( ermine.
Pearl J
December J5. §
Just Arrived,
Per fehoomr Daphne, Captain Morse, from Aux-
Cayes,
A Cargo of Sugar and Coffee.
Aljo, per brig Betsey, Captain 'Vhite, from the Isle
of trance,
11 Hogsheads, I puncheon, and 15 taniflers, of
Batavla Sugar
45 Hogsheads Pepper of Malabar
65,000 lb. Coffee
*3.000 Cotton ■'
4,000 Indigo For Sale by
F. Coppinger,
No. 421, South Front-llreet
December 11
New-England Rum, Salmon, Beef,
Chocolate, Rite, Boftofi mould and dipt Candles, a
few quarter-caies of Sherry Wine, a few barrels of
Cyder, and a few quintals of excellent Tible COD
FISH—for sale by
Ezekiel Hall,
No. 44, North Water-flreet.
December 14th, 1796..
A few hoglheads of choice N% E. Rum,
it asd a quantity of LARD, forfale;
at Enquire at No. 71, North Water-street.
December 14 , dtw
n Frejh Garden, Grass and Flower-Seeds,
Reots, Isfc. SsV.
This day landing from the ship Eagle, captain Fofdick,
from London,
And FOR SALE by '
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE,
Corner of Walnut and Second-streets,
A rnojl capital and txtetijtve AJfortment of
GARDEN, GRASS and FLOWER-SEEDS,
ROOTS, &c. &c. .
Among which are,
iMVe kinds Asparagus Three kinds Oefles
Four Berecole Twelve Onion
Twenty-five Beans Thirteen Radiflt
Six Beets Fifteen Turnip
Eleven Brocoli Fifteea Peas
y Twenty-fix Cabbage Six Savoy
' Six Carrest Four Parsnip
Three Cauliflower Twenty-three . Melon
Five Celery Twenty-one Lettuce
Ten Cucumber
Common and Thyme
t, Curled leaf and sprigged Parsley
d Marygold Pot Marjorum
~ Balln Thyme Mangel Wurtzel
, r Leek Kail Shallots
r< Rape Seed Rye Grass Saint Foin Lucerne
:c Red and white plover Timothy, &c. &c.
With a curious collection of-the roost esteemed
ie FLOWERxSEEDS and ROOTS,
Being the rtioft extensive ever imported into this city.
The above are from a capital Seedsman ill London, and
warranted frefli and good.
Printed catalogues may be had by applying as above.
Dec. 17. dtf.
Just Landing,
At South Jireet wharf, from on board the fliip Stdg-
Ity, - Captain Hvdge, from St. Peterjhurg,
The following Goods :
f Riiflia Sail Duck, firft quality.
Do. Sheeting do.
Do. Diaper.
n Do. Huckaback.
Do. Crafli.
' Do. Mould Candles, 4, 5 and 6,' to the] lb. of the
n Englifk fiae.
e Do. White Candle Tallow.
Do* White in small boxes*
Do. Cordage of fine yarn.
Ravens Duck.
lfinglafs, ift and and fort.
2 Horse Hair uncutlcd.
Ruflia Bar Iron.
Do. Hoop Iron,
' Do. Nail Rods,
? 10 Tons Oakum and Junk.
St. Petersburg Cle-in Hemp.
For Sale by
Philips, Cramond, & Go.
OiUberia. «
; ■' — ■ .
, Old Condon particular Madeira Wine,
Landing from on board the barque Eagle, Capt. Bates,
and for sale by ROBERT ANDREWS,
No. 86', Ssuth Wharves.
November 79. eodtf
Cheap French China.
THE fubferibers finding it impcfiible to supply their
(lore with any more China from France, the prices
j being too immoderate in the manufaileries, give no
tice that they will fell at prime cost the remaining
fteck on hand, confifiiijg of
Deflert Setts, >
Tea-Table Setts '
Separate Cups and Sauqeri
Grouped and Figures
[ Alabaster Vases
Looking Glaflei, in gilt frames,
Bcfides India Japan'd Toilet Delks, Chairs, Tablps
nad Quadrille Boxes. PASQUJER & Co.
No. 91, South becond-ftreet.
December sth. ,tta
- For Sale,
By J. WARD Eli, PARKER & Co.
An Invoice of Cordage,
Confiding of different sizes, from i 2 inch cables down
to rope of 1 inches, of different lengths: Imported in
the fliip Swift, from Hull, and entitl.ed to drawback.
Sept. 27, dtf
~ SW A N N's
Riding Schooly Horse Academy & Infirmary.
Adjoining the Public Square, Market Street.
T. SWANN
RETLRNS his sincere thanks to those gentlemen by whom
he hat been employed, dui ing his residence ia thi* City, and
flattershimfelf that the success of his etforts, in the numerous,
■ obflinate and dangerous diseases in Horses, iV» which he has
been consulted, together with his moderate charges, will fe- ;
ure their futurefavors and recemmendation.
He now begs Jeave to inform them and the public at large I
that his spacious and commodious premises, ere&ed -for the
purposes above described arc open for the reecpiion of pupils
of either lex, who wish to be inttrufted m the Art of Riding, \
and the light method of governing their horses, so as to ride j
them with cafe, elegance, and lafety—their horses will be 1
cat dully and expeditiously broke, for every purpose, and 1
obedient to the will of the riders ; the natural powers
which ere (hut up in them, will be unfolded by art, calling
forth uniformity ot motion, and giving to that noble animal
ali thole beauties of attion which providence has so bounti
fully bellowed on them. -J
Also, at his hospital, every disorder to which the horse is
liable will be treated according to the rules of art, oonfirmed
by long and repeated experience.
The utility of the above inftirution has never been qncftion
ed, that it has long been wanted in this city, every gentleman's
Hud will manifeft* and T. Swans as the firffc eftablifher of
the veterenary art, folieit* and reives upon the support of that
public (which he is ever anxious in serving) to enable him to
bung it to perfection. The idea of a fubfeription for fihat
purpose has beeu hinted by feveial gentleman, who wish to
promote the inftUution—the amount of each fubfeription to
bereturned by services in any of the departments he profe(TeS|
agreeable to the rate of charges slated in his hand bill. Such
fubfeription imow open, and the fignaturesof many reli
able gentlemen already obeained. He therefore informs his
mends and furh Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has nqt
the honor of being known, that he (hall iu a few days take
[ he liberty of waiting upon them and folicking their support
an d protc&ioD.
N . B. Horses are properly prepared for those Ladies and
Oemlewen who wish to be iaUiu&ed* ,
Nov - St tth&f.
1, Wm. Holdernesse, No. 76,
HIGH-STREET,
Has received by the late arrivals,
A Well StleSed Assortment of
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
Haberdashery Goods,
Which he will fell, wholesale and r«uil, en the very
low eft terms ;
Amvngjl Kvbtch are
Some elegant 4-4 and 7-8 Chintzes and Cotton*, new
patterns
Ditto Frfrniture ditte \ A
Ditto Dimity
1, Tamboured, Boot, and Jaconet Mttflia*
Ditto in Gold and Silver
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine
Mantuas of the firft quality
8 Silk and Cotton Hoficry .
11 Umbrella* of the firft quality, aflortcd
k lrifli Linens, very fine, and Table Linens
p Marseilles and Cotton Counterpanes
8 Rose Blankets &c.
Y October 26.
P —
n For Sale,
e By George Defchamps, No. 91,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrek
and half barrels
Ditto Herring and Mackarel.
Smoaked Herring in barrels and kegs
Ditto Salmon, by the dozen or single one
Dry Codfifh, from one to fifty kentalt
Fine and ooarfe Salt
Nova-Scptia and French Plaster of Parrs, 111 the stone
J and ground, for manure and stucco-work
December 1. ftf
For Sale,
A capital fta*d for business—That Well kaown tavern,
the F.we and Lambs, North Frost Street, No. 333, in the
Northern Liberties; a brick house containing nine fire*
places, and ten rooms well fiaiftied ; good stables and
chair-house, with a frame-houfe on Water street ; the
building stands on fonr lots, seventeen feet front each, ma
king a front on front-ftreet, thirty-four feet, and nearly
the fame on Water-ftteet, and is one hundred and forty
feet deep from street o street, futjedt to £8. 10s. each
lot per annum, ground rent, this property is near the hay.
feales, and public docks, easy communication with the
Delaware waters and advantageously situated for bufineA
. of various kinds
The above premiers are now rented until December
next at £.IJS per annum.—Enquire of tee Printer.
Dec, ia. §iwzaw6w.
C'A U TION.
WHEREAS very large and heavy debts are justly
due and owing from messrs. Blair M'Clenachan arfd
Patrick Msore, of the city of Philadelphlz, merchants,
trading under the firm of Blair M'Slenackan and P.
Moore, aftd from Blair M'Clenachan in his separate
capacity ; to which, by the laws sf the land, all tb«
joint as well as separate property of the said Gen'le
men, is, and ought to be, liable. And whereat
it is clearly and fatisfa&orily ascertained, that mr.
Blair M'Cienachan, of the laid firm, has conveyed,
away t« nar. John ?/. Huflon, hii fou-in law, to hi*
daughter, miss M'Clenachan, and to his son, George
M'Clenachan, several large and valuable real efhtej,
as well as eonfidcrable personal property, in the city
and county of Philadelphia, in the county of L&ncaf*
ter, in the county of Ncw-Caftle on Delaware, and
elsewhere, with a view, as it is apprehended, to de
feat the Creditors in the recovery of their just debts.—
This is, therefore, to forewarn all persons whenso
ever, againlt the purchase from the said grantees, or
- either of them, of any portiop of the said real or per
sonal property, as the moll vigorous meafur'es will
without delay be taken to render the fame liable to
the ju2 demauds of the Creditors.
By order of the Creditors.
Thomas Fit-zjimoni, ")
Philip Nicklin, /
Isaac t r bar ton, J- Committee:
William M'Murtrie, I
; Samuel W. Fijher, J
Philadelphia, December 17th, 1796. aoth.J
■ - ' ■ • ■ ~ *
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE caption introduced int« the public prints,
warning all persons againlt purchasing from the
grantees of Blair M'Clenachan, any portion of the
1 large, real and petfonal eliatcs he conveyed away to
1 his fon-in law and to his children was the result of
a deliberation had upon thefubjeft by a general and
. numerous meeting of the erwlltors as well of Blair
M'Clenachan and P Moore as of Blair M'Clena
chan individually. It was no more than an execu*
tion of that trust confided in the fubferibers bf
those creditors ! a step which it would have been a
, breach of duty and honor in them to have omitted.
1 The very ftatcoient of the fadt therefore rauft dif
| pel the imputation that it was either " precipitate
. or vindi£Hve." It originated in a defile to secure
; the property of the debtor as a fund for the pay
• mentof his just debts. It was fan&ioned by the
; advice of council as a measure mcejary to the fafety
i of the crfcditors. If (he advertisement has been
: i injurious to Mr. M'Clenachan he owes that injury
: ito his own unjuftiiiable eonduiS, not to the sub
, fctibers who have merely published the truth in
terms as mild as the fadi would admit, and vvh»
mean to investigate in a high court of justice the
validity of those purcbafes of whieh Mr. M'Cle
nachan so confidently speaks.
The fubferibers therefore are bound by a sense,
of duty to the creditors in general to repeat their
caution againlt purehafing of tbofe grantees or
either of them, and to extend the terms of it to a
purchase from'any other persons (if such there be)
to wkom Mr. M'Clenachan may have made similar
conveyances.
(Signed) T..FITZSIMONS,
P. NICKLIN,
ISAAC WHARTON,
WILLIAM M-MURTS.IE,
SAMUEL W.riSHER.
Philad. Dec. 21, 1796.
Those printers who have been requested fa
public the firft Cautivn, are desired to publish this
«U«.New Theatre.
For the Benefit of the Unhappy
Sufferers
By the late fire at Savannah,
THIS EVENING, Wednesday, Deccmbw »8,
"Will be presented,
A COMED"t, is four ails, called
The Child of Nature. v
front the French of Madam Genlis, by the authtrefs
of Every one hat his Fanlt.
Marquis of Alminia, Mr. Wignell
Count Valantia, Mr. Mureton .
Duke Murcia, Mr. Warren
Seville, ' Mr. Warrell
Greaada, Mr. W'etrrell, jun.
jft Peafaat, Mr. Copper
id Peafint, Mitchell
Marckidaeft Meridi, Mrs. Morris
Amanthis, Mrs. Merry
End of th« Comedy (for the fecontl time) a new
Ballet Dance, eompofed by mr. Byrne, called
The BOUQUET.
11l which will be introduced the favorite
TAMBOURINE DANCE.
The-priacipal parts by mr. and mrs. Byrne, mr. War
rcll, jun. and miss Milboarne.
To which will be added,
A COMIC OPERA, in 2 afls, (written by the au
thor of the Poor called
The Agreeable Surprise.
Sir Felix Friendly, Mr. Warren
Compton, Mr. Darley
Eugene, Mr. Darley, jan.
Chicane, Mr. Warrell
John, Mr. Warrell, jup.
Thomas, Mr. Mitchell
Farmer Stump, Mr. A organ
Cudden, Mr. Bltftt
Lingo, (firft time) Mr. Moreton
Laura, Mrs. Oldmixon
Mrs. Cheshire, Mrs. L'EJlrange
Cowslip, Mrs. Warrell
Fringe, Mrs. Harvey
0" On Friday
The Wheel of Fortune;
To which will be added,
A celebrated OPERA,
By the FRENCH COMPANY «f COME
DIANS,
Called,
La Melomanie,
Or, /
MUSICAL MANIA.
There will be no performance on Saturday aext
•n account of the preparations for some new pieces for
the ensuing week.
jgj" Box, One Dollar twenty-five cents. Pit one' Dollar.
And Gsllerjr, half a dollar.
Tickets to be had at H. & P. Rice's tSoak-ftore,
No. j® High-street, and at the Office adjoining the
Theatre.
Places for the Boxesto be taken at the Office in the
front of th<) theatre, from is till 1 o'clo«k, and from
Ic till 4 on the days of performance.
Ladies and Gentlemen are requfftcd to fend their
fervanta to keep places a quarter before 5 o'clock, and
to order them, as soon as the company are seated, to
withdraw, as they cannot on any account be permit
ted t* remain.
riVA T RES PUB LICA !
College-HalL
Readings and Recitations,
Moral, Critical 9 and Entertaining.
Mr. FENNEL! >
■RefpedUully informs the Public, that
On THURSDAY EVENING, December 19, at 7
o'Jlock, will be repeated
An ExriANATour Ad»ress.
After which will be reeited an Allegorical Poenj, in
three.parts, called
The CAVE or NATURE;
Or, A Pifiure of the Virtues, Vices, and Pafliens,
of the Haman Mind.
Oecafional admiffien tiekets to be had of Mr. Poulfoa,
Jan. at the Library j at mr: M'Elwee's looking-glass-store,
No. 70, South Fourth-street j and at Mr. Carey's, Book
seller, Market-street.
This Evening, the 28 th inft.
A* 6 o'clock in the evening, will be fold at 'public
auction, (if not before disposed of at private falc)
at the City-Tavern,
All that capital mansion-house, llables, out-houfes, &c.
and three contignoustra>ftsof land situate on the Welt-fide
of Schuylkill ia the township of Blockley and county of
Philadelphia, generally known by the name of Lanfdown,
containing 199 acres I»i perches more or Ids and a messu
age plantation and trad of land in Blockley town (hip a
forofaid adjoining Lanfdown, containing 64 acres one
perch.
The premises are f» well known as to need no particular
•defctiption. Few feats in America can compare with
Lanfdown for convenience and elegance; it commands a
•variety of rich beautiful profpefts and is remarkably heal
thy. Terms affile will be made known by
PHILIP NICKLIN, -) Attoraies in
\ fad to
ROBERT E.GRIFFITH, j James Creenlcaf.
Ttrrtory of the United Statej, N. W. of the Ohio.
Tdrnir (
V. > Foreign attachment.
Parkke. j
Notice is hereby given,
To JOSEPH PARKER, late of Kalkalkia in the (now)
county of Randolph, in the aforefaid, Mer
chant, that in pursuance of the laWs of the Territory in
that cafe provided, a foreign attachment hath issued out of
the county court of common pleas of the said county,
against the lands and ten err ects, goods, chattels and ef
fects, rights and credits of the said fofeph Parker, at the
suit ol George Turner, Esquire ; and that unless the said
Joseph Parker appear hy himfclf, or Attorney, to give
special bail to l'uch suit, judgment hy default will be en
tered against him, at the court to be held in and for the
said county, neit, after the expiration of twelve months
from this date ; and the estate or elt ares so attached, will
be fold for the faii,fact ion of all creditors, who fliall ap
pear to be justly intitled to a demand thereon, and shall
apply for that purpose. Dated at Kalk*fkia, aforefaid,
this twenty-ninth of March, 1796.
JOHN RICE JONES, Attorney for Plaintiff.
| CONGRESS oe ran UNITED STATES.
HOUSE OF REPRESEtTrATIVPJ.
\_Dekatc on the Militia Bill continued
Monday, December 19.
Mr. Baldwin was id favor of striking out the
feftion ; but if gentlemen thought it was deciding
upon an important principle too hastily, he had no
ebjedtion to its lying over for the present. "it might
be recolledted that this was one of the firtt great
objedts which engaged the attention of the present
government ; it was then discussed very fully, and
a long and intelligent report had been made on the
fubjedt from the military department. It was at
that time thought best not to decide hastily ; but
to lay'the plan befpre the people that the public
opinion of the system might be ascertained. He
thought that opinion now fully appeared to be a
gainst the measure ; they seemed to think the plan
would be a laborious,expenfive operation, not worth
pursuing. He thefabjedt warnow called
up to fee whether they were prepared to determine
upon the principle. He acknowledged that he was
ready to vote against it; if other gentkmen were
not, the fnbjeft might be postponed. He believed
the plan not worth pursuing, and that some other
plan, perhaps the old one, might be so improved
as to atrfwer the end in view. He understood the
mover meant the house to determine only upon the
principle ; he should vote for striking oat the "firft
fe&ion for the reasons he had given.
Mr. Rutherford said that thegentleman who had
gone before him, had so narrowed the ground he
meant to have taken, that he had little left to fay.
He believed the government, of the United States
had nothing to do with the militia of .the individual
foveteign Hates ; this was the opinion of nine
tenths of the people. The condiiution was ex
press, it fays : when the militia is called in'oa&wal
service, they shall be under the dire&ion of
the general government. But, until that take
place, the different dates have the command of their
own children—their own families. If, said he, the
United States, continue to grasp and go so far,
they will defeat the end in view ; for, said he, as
soon as individual states arc told they are unequal
to their own business, all is over. For if a farmer,
said he, obtrudes his authority over his foil, after
he has entered upon a farm 011 his own account, and
fruftrates all his plans, no good, but probably much
ill, will arise fiom this officionfnefs. So it is, said
he, betwixt the Union and her children, the states.
With refpedt to the diftridt he represented, they
wanted no new regulations as to their militia laws.
The law proposed, indeed, would go to cross out
all the exertions of the individual states ; and he
hoped nothing farther would be done in t' at house
on the fubjeft, than to recommend it to the several
states to revise their militia laws, and to put their
militia in the heft possible state of defencc.
Mr. Sitgreaves differed in opinion wi'ih the jentle
man from Ge6rgia ( Mr. Baldwin) that lhe business
might be postponed without inconvenience. He hop
ed the decision would not he delayed. He had his
doubts on the ftrbjed ; but it was defirible that a de
termination should be had, beCause those Hates which
considered their systems as defe&ive, waited to fee
what Congress would do. He knew this was particu
larly the ease withrefpeft to the state of Pennsylvania,
and therefore he wiflied the fubjedt to hive an end.
Understanding, however, that this plan had undergone
, much consideration, and was not likely to be fuccefs
ful, he should not fay any thing more on the fubjeft.
Mi. Harper said he wished noi unneceffarilv to pro
tradl the bulinefs, but he did not think' it fhn'uld be so
lightly difpeneed with. It had been the labour of two
committees in two successive feffiens, which confided
of men well versed in military concerns,&who had seen
the defers of; the present system ; he thought, there
fore, that a hill which had been formed with so much
labour and attention, ought not to be kicked out of the
house with so little ceremony. He wished gentlemen
to fay what they wowld ■ give them in exchange for
this bill. It waseafy to make objedlions, but a fubfti
twte should be offered. Mr. H. again condemned the
present system. The gentleman from Georgia had
said the public voice was against this measure. He
wished to know how this had been tolledted ? the pub
lic voice, as far as he had heard it, ( and he had had
an opportunity of.hearing.it from one end of the con
tinent to th'e other ) was dire&ly the contrary —for
all seemed to condemn the present system.
The Gentleman from Ne\v-Jerfey (Mr.<lend<frfon)
had complained that is would throw the military bur
den unequally upon the citizens He believed the
contrary would be the cafe, as every man in the course
of his life would be called upou to perform his ftiare
of service. That gentleman had spoken of certain
persons being exempted from service. The bill con
tained no such exemption ; nothing but inability
couid exempt a man from service. The age fixed up
on was a period of life before men generally enter
ed into business ; and everyone passing through this
military discipline, would diffufe military habits and
discipline through the union, and form a nation of sold
iers ready to defend theircountry whenever it 6 necessi
ty should call them. Not, he said, that the rich man
should be exempted, but that all men, without excep
tion, should be equally liable. So that every citizen
would become a soldier, without which a free govern
ment could not be fspported.
It had been said, if this bill were to pass, it
would derange all the present military eftabliftiment.
It would do no such thing, but would be engrafted
upon it. They were also told that volunteer corps
had equipped themselves at great expence. This
( he did not approve, because the public defence,
which should be general, fell upon volunteer corps
who might be more rich or more patriotie than
1 others. He hoped, therefore, the motion to strike
out would not pass. ,
Mr. W. Lyman observed that the gentleman
who condemned the present system in toto, allow
ed that it was pradticabl* in some parts of the uni
on, so that it could net be quite fobad as he repre
sented it. JHe believed it was capablc of improve
ment. The greatest objedlion to the system now
in force was, that it did not fall equally upon all
classes; il an improvement was made in it,' in this
refpeft, one of the greatest obje&iens to it would
be removed. In every free nation, the citizens
must be ready to defend their country when in dan
ger from attacks from without, or diftur'oances from
within j but if the principle of a fcletS corps ,was
introdueed, you introduce a diftindt principle, which
wii! war against the other part* of the system. In
a military point of view, it was impcllible he laid,
to carry tliis principle into operation, for the mo
ment you introduce it, you will have no other corpi.
He differed from -the gentlenian from S. Carolina
(Mr. Harper) ih speaking of the opinion of the
people on the bill proposed ; he believed they were
wholly diffatisfisd witiyit. Before this bill was re
committed, he would propose amendments to other
parts of it. ,
Mr. Hartley faijl there were several new mem
bers in the had not beeo prtfent at the
former dificuffions of thisfubjedfc ; and he thought
it best not to hurry the bufißefs, but to give a little
time for these gentlemen to make themselves ac
quainted with thi fubjedl. If they now agreed to
strike oat the firft fedlion, it would put an end to
the plan proposed. He believed the feledt corps
proposed was not a new thing ; there was such an
establishment in Switzerland, and such a corps had
frequently been under consideration in the date of
Pcnnfylvania ; but the .greatest objection to it was,
the great number of confcientkias. people in that
date irho refufe to bear arms. The people of the
| Eastern dates, he fair], were araied befote this go
vernment was eredted ; but this was not the cafe in
; Pennsylvania and in the South This feleft corps,
he said, ilverc to be anne<Tat the public expence }if
! this difficulty wasgot over, he thought there would
be few left. He suggested the propriety of the
committee's riling, in order to give time for consi
deration of the fubjedt. For his own part, he
should vote for it.
Mr. Gilbert hoped the committee would rife ;
for he believed this fubjedt had not been discussed
daring this csngrefs, and many members were, of
course, unacquainted with the business.
The motion for the committee's rising was pot
and carried 37 to 31.
Mr. Livingflon said that there had been a com
mittee appointed last session on the fubjedl of im-.
proving the penal"code ; but for want of some ne
ceffiry information, no report had been made.
That information being now arrived, and doubting
not, the house was still desirous of ameliorating the
penal code, he should beg to lay the following re
solution an the table.
" Resolved, that a committee be appointed to en,
quire whcther,any and what alterations are neceffa
ryra the penal laws of the United States, and that
they report by bill or otherwise." Agreed.
Mr. Galiatin presented a petition from Stephen
Moylan, of this city, commissioner of loans, pray
ing for an increase of salary.
Mr. Gallatin obtained leave of absence for ten
days. ,
Mr. A. Foster, from the committee of enrolled
bills, reported that the bill for the more effedtual
promulgation of the laws of the United States, was
truly enrolled, and it received the signature of the
speaker accordingly.
Mr. Harper enquired if it would he in order; to
move that the committee of the whole be difcharg
cd from a farther consideration of the militia bill ;
and, on being informed it was in order,, he moved
that it be so* thw purpose of recommit
ting it to a feleS; committee. His ohjedt was that
the bill might, be so modified as to ltand a better
chance of passing ; because if this was not done,
and feftion was determined to be struck
out, the plan would be loft, which he thought of
great importance.
After fable obje&ions urged against the motion
by Mr. W. Smith, Mr. Hartley, Mr. W. Lyman,
Mr. Kiteheli and Mr. Heath, and 10 favour of it
by Mr. Harper and Mr. Craik, it was put and
loft.
Mr. Heath said, owing to a want of fufficient
energy in the revenue laws of the United States,
conhderable films of money had been loft by reve
nue officers, as was feCn by the report from the
treasury department. He thought it possible for
the laws to be so amended as to prevent fiinilar de
falcations in future. For that purpose he wifiied
the following refoltition to lie on the table:
" Resolved, that a committee be appointed to
enquire whether any and what alterations ire necef
firy to enfoicc the payment of money due from
shevarioL-t revenue.cffi«sis of the United States."
Agreed. Adjourned.
Mr. H'Hliamt's obfcrvaiious on the Militia- E * .
Mr. Williams kid, a well regulated militia must
be acknowledged as the best support in a free re
public ; and as every man tfuft be intended in car
tying into effect such a fydem, it became us to pay
every possible attention to this very importp.nt fub
jea. He thought the present fyttem very excep
tionable ; and the one proposed and now under
consideration, appeared to him compulsive; arbitra
ry, and not agreeable to the spirit of a republican
government. The annual encampments would be
very expensive and injurious to morals and industry.
Ihe regiments thus composed would extend over
a great furface, and would want that compad* so
lidity which military corps should possess. In the
bill, all (except those exempted) between 20 and
25 yeats of age, are to do duty. This was -a pe
riod, he fatd, that the ,purcft morals ought to be
inculcated in youth, inilead of which we might
reasonably expect that a greater part of therawJuM
in confequet.ce of their being encamped, imbibe
immoral principles, which would be exceedingly
difficult to remove. Besides, this is a period that
young men take upon themselves an adiive part in
life, ard begin the world for themselves.
As the claufc now flood, the public must be at
a very great expence, such as in our present cir
cuir.fti.nces, we arc unable to "bear. To agree to
the firft claUse would be legislating in the dark, as
it was impoflible to know what number of citizens
there were within that age," ana of course we can
not form an eftimateof the expenees. If such a
system was to take place, he said, we ought to have
been furnifhcd wi.h the number as near as circum
stances would admit. But as a gentleman observed
the other day, that before gentlemen negatived ihc
present mode, they would do well to propose a bet
ter, Mr. W. said, he was of that a le
gionary system would not only preferable to
the one under consideration, but more
ble to the minds of the people ; fully as client,
and would call but for little aid from the public.
A legion, he said, was the moil efficient corps
in every point of ticw. A fele& legion might ea
fily fce fomed from every I rigade of militia, agree
ably to a certain rule of appui uuiiittciu which fhouldi
be fixed by law. Mod brigades could form o>te
troop of horse, one company ot artillery and a l„t
----talioti of infaatry. The regiments which compose
jhis brigade of reserved militia lhould be divided
ints infantry, cavalry and artillery slaflcs. Tbcfe
claflVs (hould be determined by lot, or by the ar
rangement of the commandant of the brigade. li
vely regiment fiiould furmfli a certain proportion
of infantry, matrofles and cavalry. The clafiea
lhould be obliged to furnifh the men for these corps
completely equipped with arms and accoutrement*,
with a military hat or cap, with a coatee, ano a
pair of overalls. The classes which furnifhed these
legionary soldiers to be exempted from the prelent
military regnlstions. They shall be denominated
the Reserved Corps, and (hall ouly meet on die
regimental parade once in tkreo years, to be in.
fpedted and to recruit the legion.. The cla/Frs, iq
cafe of desertion or expulsion, fhquld be obligaieil,
by pecuttiary penalties, t» replace the man wnode.
fens or is expelled.—lf the classes refute to raise
the men diredted by law, or the by-ordits of a tu
perior officer, every individual of luah cl«U» fholtid
be fined with severity.
The teim of the legionary enlistment to be for
years. During their service in tkc legim
they might be exempted from all works on the ruad
—from all civil duties as jurors, and from pet tonal
tax. Every three years of service to be dittin
guifhed by some honorary badge, and that period
of service to exempt the legtorftry soldier from ail
military duties except when the country was in dau-
S er - . ' -
The legionary soldier, when his time expires, to
receive a military dipUma, expressive of nis pairi.
otifm and-attachment to law and oidet.— Xhe le
gionary cavalry and infantry to be iilfpeCted and
exercised fn squads convenient to their ,retidence
times in the year by the legionary adjutant,
who fhquld be liberally-rewarded >»y govammeiit fur
Ltvmiiitary ferviccs. The artilieiy ifruuld be «u>
camped days, and fhcuia e excrcifed and
infpeited by some able -aitiiiery officer ia each di
vilion. This service to coafilt in practical experi
ments, and government (hould provide fur this ex
pence. This corps to be entitled to a ftipcuomy
in point, of pay, and military honor.
The legion* of each fiate to be mfpe&ed yearly
by the adjutant-general of each Hate, whole ranlc
and emoluments tliould be lefpeitabie. lie lhould
make yearly repoits of the legionary corps, 01 the
legionary adjutants, and of the defetls of the law,
to the commander in chief of the hate, and to the
secretary of war. He should be refponfibl* fur the
good appearance and difcipliitt of the legion, and
therefore e.very legionary adjutant fboulei oe recom.
mended or appointed by him. The firft iay the
artillery (hould be infpedted, the ficond day Hie ca
valry, the third day the infantry, and trie tourtli
day the legion fhoHid be exercised in mock engage
ments. The officers and soldiers of the legW to
receive a compensation for less of time.
In older to accompiifh an uniformity in arms, go
vernment might furnifh them, and ctiArge them'to
the classes at firft colt. He believed molt of the
Rates could furiiifh the legion with arms.
The legion fhouid bear the nam. of the county or
brigade diflriA, and should oc ofliccit'd iu the nrii
firft inftaoce from the prelent officers of the uinim.
The brigadier-general of the refeiveu corps
always command the legion, and fupei lor encourage
ment fhouid be given to the noii-commiliione«l offi
cers. The brigadier-general to be relpoufiiile lor
the raising of the legion, to apportion the rtquifi
tion to each regiment, and the commandant or each
regiment to apportion the regimental reqrtifition to
each company. Any negiedt or drfobedtcncTVtf or
ders to be puniflied with levcrity.
~ The penalties of neii-atteNdance and other offen
ces would defervc consideration. - He believed no
system would be efficient, if Jthe fines were ndt giv
(ii to the officers commanding the companies, (or
i their use and equipment, and no fyltem will be so
just as to determine every species of guilt by a court
martial.
The court members (hoold receive the fame fay
as if on any other duty. *
the legion was colledted, to be fubjedl to
the articles of war, except as to corporal p&nilli--
mcnt. If would be belt tu arrange a fyflom tor the
*gk»i, ft om the annual reports of the adjutant-ge
neral to the secretary of war, who (hould report
annually the defedts of the law. '
Mr. Williatns said, it appcarsd to him that there
was a certain proportion of out citizens better cal.
eclated and more disposed for military duty than o
ihers. The principles here laid down would give
them an opportunity to distinguish themselves ac
cording to their genius; but in the clause in the
bill before them, all were to be considered as form
ing the militia, let tiieir genius or abilities be ever
so much at variance with the service. Of what use
could it be, said Mr. W. to discipline men who dif
liked the service? In his opinion, itwas only a lofl
of time.
Mr. W. concluded by faying, that he had throw®
these ideas together, and fubmilted them to the
consideration of the house. They appear to hint
to obviate many objrftions which had been urged
against the bill .before tltm, and to remedy exilting
evils. The house would perhaps think differently ;
it 10, they would of conrfe rrjedt them. He fliould
at all events vote for ftrikipg out the firft of
the bill before them.
For the Gazette of the United Sutcs.
Mr. Fbnno,
I HAVE jutt returned from a rational and ele.
R- nt entertainment, in which taiy feelings have been
f- overpowered with enjoyment, that lam impcl
'♦ to express the delighttuf impreffiens I received,
and which ltill remain upon my miad. I Attended
this evening, with a numerous and refptdtable au
diencej at Mr. Fennell's jfiift " moral, critical, and
entertaining reading," delivered in the Hall of the
University, km til thecommon exprftationof enter
tainment, which nsvelty generally excites ; but
those expeftatfons were so greatly exceeded by the
varied, exquifitc, and refined pleasure, which, with
the reft of the audience, 1 received, in the coutfen. tin* teadiag, and t!i4 talents from which It was
derived, so worthy c f encouragement, that lam
more minute description of the enter
tainment will not be unacceptable to voir readers
wyaurfelf.,
Mr. Fennell opened with n general flcetch, de
scriptive of his plan, and the design «f his read
ings, composed in a ftvle perfedtly pure and claifi
cal, and spoken in a manner the most modest and
llnaffuming •. in the eourfe of this introdu&ion the
taste was highly gratified, by the equable ealm:iefs,
Slid the chatlc neatness, yvi.th which it wag deliver
ed. N* irregular attempts at fife ornament or
splendor, inte>rupted the temperate, and easy cur
rent ®f hisaddrefs—<dl was calm, dignified and en
-B*B' B g*
The fucceedinff entertainment confided of the
recitation of an original poem. containing a few
short quotation!, written by Mr. Fennell with great
. poetical spirit, called, " The Cave of Nature "
in which the different virtuea, vices and pafiions
»re painted with uncommon force of colouring.
, Throughout the whole recitation Ilia voice pofTcffed
a fulnefs of .tone, and a sweetness nnd variety of
cadence, which at once aft®ai(fied a»d delighted,
whilst his countenance, accompanied with the mot>
graceful and elegant aAipn, exprefled in the full
force and energy of natu>e the fofrell as well as the
most violent emotions of.the bnman heart. Wlieie
ill was so excellent it is difficult to give a decided
prefeience to any part. The involuntary emotion
which the whole audience dit overed at the descrip
tion of the crimes and the fall ot " Ambiiion,"
father resembled the effect produced by the opera
tion of a real objed, than the flight emotions cx
cited by a mere picture of the fancy. The remaik
•ble imprelfioo made by the recitation at this part
of rhe piece would seem to gi»e it the preference
by the fan&ian of general opinion ; yet 1 believe
it will hardly be said by any person present that the
defeription and expnffion of Hesitation Guilt, En
*Ji J'oloufy, Revenge and Domcjlic Happiness, were
or could be exceeded. Joy was beautifully and de
lightfully painted j and perhaps in point of poeti
cal composition this part of the poem might claim
the preference. These are the .moll llriking parts
Ot the reading of this evening, bot 'not the molt
important. WhiHt Mr. Fennell exhibited an ele
gant pattern for the orator, aud gratified the man
as taste, the whole piece was fraught with wife
and fei tentious reflexions, equally calculated Vor
the inoraKft and the citizeu.
In retracing the imprefiions which have been
thus left upon my mind, I cannot but icfleft with
that the citizens of Philadelphia, have
so good an opportunity of displaying their taste and
jtidgmerf, by,the encouragement cf an entertain
■lent, Htio«al and pieafing, whilst they contri
bute to their own inflruftion and amufe"-ent. In
point of manner or morality, no o u jecUo:i can be
raif(ja to these entertainments, which, as they are
equally diltant from vice and diffipatiuit, are alike
calculated to please the old and the youno, the
cheerful and the grave. And whilst pantomime,
farce, and the votaries of every kind of diflipatioii,
meet with unbsurioed encouragement, it is 10 be
hoped, that the friends of rational recreation, will 1
not permit the talents of Mr. Fennell to pais unre
warded, in a city which juitly boalli of its science
md it, tact. ■ A CITIZEN.
Tuef lay Evening, Dec. 27, 1796.
Philadelphia,
WEDNESDAY JEVENING, DECEMBER »8, 1796 '
* — I
RtTUBN Ot Votfi 2 . c |
*•« ■ "-1 'I £ « ,X. " | I
: PRES-DENT t " ,•:!£ * £Es j* ,
AND . V p '. £■• -5 '<
▼ICE-PRESIDENT ~
6 — i (, t
. MafTachufttts, 1613 j 2 1 <
Rhode-Jfland, 4! 4 j
Connecticut, | 94 j 3
Vermont, 4' 4 \
New-York, tin N 1
New-Jersey, 7 j
Pennsylvania, I *14 ij
Delaware, .1 3'i I ! ' {
Maryland, 74 4 3 1 1
Virginia, I x ao 115 31 1
Keniiicky, 1 1:
T'nneffee, t
Korth-Carolina, i: 1 it 6 , c
South-Carolina, I S 8 r
Georgia, I . p
. Total » "'7» 59'57=*3 »5'12 21 x 0
In North-Carolina, ere vote was givtn f#r Charlas i".
Pinckaey, and tJiree for Judge Iredell. 1
_ We have received Savannah papers to the 13th inft.
Miclufive. They contain accounts »f repeated atternpts
to bum the residue of that unfortunate city. On the
,jd a fire br»ke out in Broughton-ftreet, whirh, en
examination, appeared to have been done by design:
it was then exiinguifhed, On the 6th, ao lioufes and rl
a number of out-houies were eonfumed. On the rcth ti
there was another alarin, oecafioned by a frelh incen- I
diary jttempt. No discoveries of the authors appear It
te lure been made.
/. ' ' Vl
Mr. W. Smith braught forward a refolutiAa en f«
Maaday last in the House ef Representatives of the f (
United States, propoling to grant a sum of money a
fcr tht relief of the fufferers by the late dreadful firei
at Savannah in Georgia. The resolution was twice 0
read, and ordered to be committed to a committee of "
the whole" yesterday. ft
The above mofion was negatived yesterday, when 0
Mr. Smith gave notice that he (hould renew it.
— « tl
. Charity, Improvement, and Entertainment. f '
b
Let these give now, who never gaYe before, 11
Let those who always gatre, now give the more. h
The Entertainmcnti.at the New-Tbeatre this r
ITtmuG, being for the benefit of the fuffereri by h
the desolating fires in Savannah, an apportanity is t,
afforded to the be< evolent citizens of Philadelphia, n
of evinting that the high rank they enjoy in the 1<
»cale of charity raauificcnce it not anmerited. . n
"f | Mr. FENNELL,
11 Last FTfnmtr, comiti-, oed his course as Reading j,
r- to a company which, if not very numerous, (not
rs exceeding one hundred) is extremely flattering to
his farft attempt. The ladies and gentlemen, who
composed his audience were entirely of that refpec-
I- tability and taste c.>lcoUted to give, by their appro
-1 batioii, a strong impression of credit to hii-perfor
d mance and success. That their expiations were
e much more than merely gratified, miy, without
i, nefitat.on, be asserted. The in: rocfuaory' adcrefs
- wns modeU, elegant, and suitable, and delivered
r with masterly neatness aud elocution. I- contain
- ed a full expansion ? f the plan r.nd design of his
- Readings, with appropriate observations on their
probable utility.
r " The Cave of Mature" whirhf tinderftand is a
' poem composed for this occasion, hy Mr. Fennell,
t exhibited a.: elegant and forcible display of the pas
fions, virtues, vic?s and views of the human heart,
i As a composition, it reflets an honour on Mr.
. Fennell, as a poet, that has not often been equal
-1 led in this country; and the amazing force he
f threw into it hy his expressive eloquenre and delive
, ry, will he doubted by notf* who have vvitnefied
his astonishing p.-> WC rs in this way on the (lage.
I Upon the whole, his undertaking defetves a li
■ beral encouragement ; and the fatisfaCti-' express
: ed !- y those who attended its commenccinen', seems
mod lully to p. omife it. Inftn.ftion and entertain
ment are indeed most delightfully united.
NEIV THEATRE.
George P.arnwell, the favourite old tragedy of Lilln,
has seldom been repreiented in a prettier manner than
it was at the New Theatre lafl evening.
This I ragedy, fnnplc md aVtlefs as it is, nevet-
Uilsin interest as well the criti
cal and refined as the carrlefs and unlettered Tho' it
has fled to hams and petite theatres, it dill keeps pnf
feflion of the eftabliflied Aage, and rene ally draws
a numerous audience.
The most prominent performance m the piece was
the Mtllwoodof'Mrs. Franeis. We have never seen
that excellent adlrefs appear to gteater advantage ;
and the of the character alone could h?ve
prevented her fom obtaining the highest
Ihe other characters rnquiring little more than me
diocrity of tal nts, it is unneceflary to lay more
than that they were well performed.
In the after piece we again law Mrs. Francis with
pleasure, give finking proof? of her talents in a differ
ent line. Had this aflrefs an expression of counten
ance eijuai to its sweetness; an J ' a melsdv of voice
equal to her excellent iudgment wehowof no obfta
clethat could prevent her from attaining that eminent
rank, to which, on the (he -s richly entitled.
. A Friend to merit.
COMMUNICA TIONS.
The Hint to De nocrats, in the Aurora of this
morning, intimating, _th.it conflagrations in the cities
of the United States will prove injurious to their
cause, merits approbation—as thus Hint, from this
quarter, will probably be attended to.
A Jacbin paper' ( the Boflnn Chronicle) fays,- that 1
the Brit lib party, meaning the federAifis, are oupof- 1
ed to French influence ccaufe, the revolution makes 1
the great body o the people attached to • ■
Britain because the tew a. excluliVley regarded."- ]
The charming tendenry of the principles of anarchy ;
has bunded the.cyes of our Ja ..bins, oth-i wife the J
bjppinejs of their adoption and prad ice would not he
so mueh extolled. It was indeed fappofed that d, ead
ful experience had AoppecWhe mouths of the anarch'
ifts on this old theme of their enthiiljafm. Pale one
fa&for the confutation of 1 million lies and reveries '
about'the happiness and liberty to be enjoyed in a couu 1
try after law and order have fallen : —
In one week of Autumn, 1793 when <here was
great scarcity in Paris, only one humhed and fifty ox
en were flattghtered in a week. 'In live facie ppSo,], •
the daughter of men was much greater !he 8.-ifTo
tin representatives, 3c or 40 in number, were guillo
tinedat that time m thirty teven minutes.
, ' I l ' Lofton independent Chronicle remarks ori the f
thanksgiving That we ought to h mble"burfelves tor
our rebellious despotism wlutf that truly I
gazette exemplifies in our demeanor towards God ! V
and the French Republic. Modern patnltifm and the
worißip of Rea/on seem to have made some pre«refs in c
Boflon. r " a
In the debateton the answer to the Prefid-nt'sfpeeth \
feveralof the Virg ma preachers of gratitude, declared : r
they would not ol.jedt to a e,r»p! mentary ad- J
drtfs to the President, although thev cannot omit any 1
occasion torepicbate his adminidra'tior and although 1
they dony tftat it has been wife : His firmnefs also i« "
denied. Excellent womplimcnts! But what fort ef c
refpefl those had in their hearts who would clip and i
pare down the expression of it, may I e judged by the i .
ltndied nngutarity, it not indecorum, of the ftvle cf two 1
O'thu Virginia corps. One fp„ke of the President r
as the man, the man might go to Firginu 1, the other
ipoke|of him as the Gentleman. He is a man and a '
gentleman, no doubt. d
For the Gazetti or rsi United States
»
Mr. Fenno, v ,
A Marylander can but remark upon the mis. -
rable, but rancorous attempt made in the Aurora
to defame the people of Maryland by abufinjr their
Legislature, because it has uoanimoufly paid an eh
levant compliment to the President. The legif- 'l
latnre of that date gave indulgence to their own 1
virtuous feelings when they thus reprefentcd the b
f'nlibility of their condiments upon the chara&er, b
fetvicee, and valedi.ftory adilrefs of the President! "
Ihere is no name on ea'ii.h so venerable in the eves w
of that date as Wadiington—no advice, merely hu
man, which they would bind ronno their hearts as a
soon a, that which it traduced by the,dirty hi,eling s
of-that pioftituted press. The people of Mary
land arc aware that for some yearn, to pr oft rate
the charatfer of Wadiington has been part of the tl
fcherne of the French and of the American Taco- „
bins—They know that more especially at this junc w
tore this plot is in a very active st ate ; _ that J Ader c ,
has attempted to rot.fe the suspicions of thepeorje rr
against the Prefident-and that to give a popubri h
ty to trench mach, nations against him, Paine's tl
lalt dregs of maudlin declamation have been offered o
to the people Doubtless they had seen the infa- q
mous letter of that wretch to the President The
legislature of Maryland knew the value of found ■,
moials, of religion, and of pure and disinterested b
I«»e (.j_c3U«try ; and as :}iey were feafible thst
•/, nothing f„ wc ]| fn forces precept as example, it was
Jt H? oming inihcra, as J'tiSrdians of the state, to il
;n luftrate all that they conlidered ej great in these,
io by holding up to approbation him whom they jult
-■ V 8 "d proudly consider ae the mult pre-eminent ex
>- ample in the world—To approve of fueh a mail,
r- by a pvblic aft, is to give the imfrrimatifrt to a vo
e lume worth for the benefit of ages t» come,
it Plutarch's Lives have contributed to form more
s great men than all the abftraft theories of ethics
d of all the fchoolst
; BY THIS DAY's MAILS.
a SALEM, December 20.
By the Hri£ Mary, captain J.ifeph Lindfey, who
arrived at MJrblehracJin Saturday last, in 57 days
from Cadiz, we have a p-fnive confirmation of ihe
declaration of war bv Spain against England. It
' wai proclaimed by the heralds of (late, at the cor
- y cr ?. cvcr y ftrecr iq Cadiz, the day before captain
L. failed and ike «As celebrated with the
| ™ c " , biifiaftic joy. T?he inhabitants appeared to
have adopted the Fiem h manners entirely—the tri
cslourod cockade was worn, and the French national
longs were sung with rapture. Prizes were bro"t
in every day, and the spirit of privateering pervad- "
ed all ranks of citizens/ Five very large and rich
rortugsefr ships from the Biarils had been capur
e<- by thi- French, two of whi.-h had arrived at
Cidiz, the remainder were ordered for other ports.
It was rumoured, -hat too.ooo Frenchmen were j
to atta-k Gibraltar in the spring. The taW of the I
capture „f admiral Jervise'. fleeN (so many rimes I
confirmed, hut never byVaptain Pedrick)turned ont '
in the loss only of one hospital Ihip, the crew of
whit h captain L saw landed in Ca<hz. Admiral
j J r * ls srf ape wai attributed to a want of vigilance
j in the combined fleet, and to fuperiorma ceuning.
, They were chafed 48 hours,, and had fafely arriv
ed at Qibraitar.
Prii e of American produce when raptain L. fail-
Fifli, fiom 7 to 8 dollars—Rice, 6 to 7
Beef, 21—Pork, 25.
BOSTON, Dec. 10.
„ . From Swedfh.
Capt. Pike from Gottenburg informs, that the heir
to the was to be crowned in No-
V fl l , hc ' : an . d was to marr y a ' elation to the Empress
ofKufha. In consequence of this connexion !,etweeh
Charles and Catherine, there was some rumour 3 that
the Swedes w. uld be engaged in the war against France
unleia a general pacification (liould "take place.
Capt. Rogers from Cape Francois, informs, that the
usual mofle of tranfatf.ng ufinefs flill prevails there
Government takes Cargoes—and pays in promises on
ly. Americans bound to Britifc ports in St. Dominrc
ate carried in.
A gentleman from Porto- Rico, informs, That
the American ship Mount Vernon, captured hy the
French privateer Flying Fish, capt. Paris, had been
eonJemned and fold there. The pretences for her
condemnation were various, but on being prio:i
pally obviated, judgment was finally given on in-
Itruttions sent to the commander of the privateei,
rty the French minirter, diredlinjf him to make prizi
of this (hip. Paris, captain of the privateer had
t cen app,.i.Hcd O at Porto-Rico, a.d fat in
judgment upon flis »wn cause. [Afercury.]
NEW-YORK7n e ,rmb r 27."
CON7INUI.D ALARM !
Citizens, your... Iji 10 be vigilaut becomes daily
m.ire important —Several incendiary attempts were
made in this cr.y on Saturday evening,, under co j
ver of uni/gitedjlreets.
I wo men wire fern to throw fomerhing into a
yard in Fly-market at 8 o'clo. k — which was. imme.
■ liately traced ana f*und to be comhuttiblesou fire.
Fhe men efcapcd.
S»m'e night the kitchen ot the house at the corn
er of Fly-mj'ket and Water Street was found in
flames, but fo-tunately dilcovered soon enough to
le ognife maiks of delign, and to extinguish it 1
without much difficulty. j
Last Thursday morning, about 4 o'clock, the j
1 door of the liable belonging to MeflVs. Tucknefs
[ and Lonndes, adjoining their dwelling house in
|„Pearl dree!, »ras difiovered to have been violently
[ broken open—the lock of the door having been
forced off, and a moll daring attempt made to set
the building on fire ; as afire brand was found in 1
the stall, under the hoife, which fortunately did
not communicate in consequence of the wetnef» of '
of the floor.
An attempt i Friday night to set fire
to the house of Peter Williams, tobacconist, Wil
l:am Street ; the matches and totrbuftibles were 1
found next morning in a place between 2'buildings, »
but .providentially it failed of fuecefs—Citizens,
do not relax in your exertions, to keep a good look out.
" PARIS, (3 VendeMaire,) Sept. 2s. 9
BUONAPARTE'. GENEROSITY.
3
Fmm Milan, we learn, that on the sth Septem
ber, Geoerjl Buonaparte granted a general amnes
ty to all who had taken part in the rebellion of the
id, 2d, and J,d of August. He hasbelides given
back to the poor the rffc&s of which they had 1
been deprived-, in oriier to pay their part of a con- 1
tribution of one million, to which the inhabitants
were fubjeded. Those only who were condemned
lor contumacy arc to have their effedts fequelteted
and eonfifcafcd to the republic.
4 little French Vicitufnefs.
A letter from ! oulon represents the arsenal of 1
that port as exhibiting a scene of the mod dreadful '
plunder. The (lips on which the J. J. RoufTcau
was built, as well as those on which the Diane was
conftru6ted, have been carried off by the work 1
men, and the rope-makers and fpinneri pilfer the '
hemp and rope yarn. Tfiere are two parties in
that port, one of which is for Grognard, and he
other for Najcac ; although they are conftautly
quarrelling, yrt they agree in the point of plun
er. Ihe toilet tor the queen of Naples, which ~
was taken on board the Erigli(h ship Mineiva, ha» .
become a prey of the plunderer*. |
'' STOCKS.
s
P ,r Ce " f isAo to IT
~ Three per Cent 10 > /
4A x^r
5k Per Cant >
' P" Ctnt " * ■- - - Witottfy
, BANK Unittd States,.. ... 19 t 0 »o pi ret
Pennsylvania, ... . t8 24 do.
. ~ North America, - - - -40to 4 < ,io.
. lnfurin " Coftip. V. A. Jhares, - i-x to 40 per et.
Pennfylv. 2 i-I to 5 per ct. belew par.
1 POURS». OF EXCHANGE.
On London, at 30 days, par to 175
st 60 days, par to 170
7 7 at 9° days, 162 1-2 to par.
Amftirdam, 60 days, per guilder. 40
' 90 days, 41
NOTICE.
The Tale of the I.anfdowne Estate advertised for this
Evening, is postponed until further notice.
PHILIP NICKLTN ) .
R. E. GRIFFITH ( Attornies to J. Greenleaf.
North-American Land Company.
NOTICE is hereby given to the Sioekholders that
an elefUon will beheld at the company's office, on Sa
turday the 31ft December, agreeably to the articles of
m alTociation, for a board of managers, to tonfill ef fiv«
' Diredors and a Secretary.
NOTICE.
1 The Creditors of Mr. James Greenleaf are requested
; to meet at the City Tavern on Wcdnefday evening the
; 28th. instant at 9 o'clock, to receive the report of the
j Committee appointed at the last meeting for the pur
pose of obtaining a statement of that Gentleman'*
aecounts. —
Philip Nicklin
Henry Pratt _ C Committee.
" 'lhos. W. Francis j
Pet. 26, 1796.
. Bank of the United Spates,
December lQh> 1795.
WHEREAS the followinj* defcrlbed Certificate!
of Public Debt, credited in the.tooks of the Trcafary»
and of Stock of the Bank of the United States, were
loft with the brig Peggy, John Hyer, matter, on her
paflage to London—Therefore notice i« hereby given 9
that application will be nude for otherj of rhe fame
description agreeably to the rules established at the
Treasury and Bank of the United State* refpedlively*
CERTIFICATES OF PUBLIC DEBT.
Date& No. In whose favor issued. Dolls. Cu.
Mar. 4,17^.
2170 & ( Walter Boyd, cos icooo € cach def.
el's' 0 1 • ditt * 6 s oco do.
si 77 ditto I gj do.
Feb. 16.
14036 Fcrmin de Taftel, I 3503 6pcrct. domi
Mar. 4, '
14'76 Francois Gde Tournes, 1 4000 do:
14C77 ditto 1 do.
3558 Diege Diitmer, t 67444 do.affj/
3 >®9 ditto : n6q 15 do.
Feb. 16.
14034 ditto 1 3499 46 do. dom.
Mar. 4.
141378 Jcfeph Lucas t 3000 do.
3327 ditio l iooo do. affu.
Feb, 16.
14°3S Pares & Hjygate, 1 8632 58 do. dom.
35'7 ditto 1 ,36; do a(Tu.
2618 ditto > 3000 3 per ct. do.
| Mi > r - 4 ,
10R34 & f F. C. Pourrat, vruve )
I io8.« ( leCoulteul*, ) a 6 oao «ch do.dom,
j 10836 ditto x 5591 10 do,
:*f"jd,u° 6 5000 each do. affli.
2641 ditto 1 9096 28 do.
Feb 6.
9273 Elizabeth Rtttt, } 14000 de/. dom.
2160 1-d a ard Steers, % g6 567 do aflu*
9274 ditto j 440 70 do. dom*
Mar. 4
9303 Hannah Shelly t 2562 23 do. do.
S* t0 i S " Bcn > Th^Pfoß - 3 soeo j
2167 Rev. G. K. Vv'-.atley, t 2000 det. affii.
2168 ditto v 1 1600 do. do.
CI-RTIUCATES OF BANK STOCK.
Ditesic No. In wh.fe (avor llTucd.
Jan. 1796.
1 9^09J§feph itkinfon, gof 1 (hare.
igbi3 ; J
2946 Thomas Andres, 3 (hares..
4112 ditto s (hares.
387")
5°4S
5046 I
7133 y William Barnard, J 1 (Hare.
'9159 I i
10 |
19501J
Blair,' a { (hares.
® a 10 (hares
*95 ),. •
sßjj ditto 1 4 (hares*
13565 & ) R "' DaV ' d Bogue ' * 1 ft »re.
609 Martin de Havilland « i (harrs< ;
1666 ditto 1 4 (hares.
20CQ 8t) _
) Samu «l Etheridge, * 3 fharei
-2967 dirto l 2 shares.
95 to 100 JoAiua Grigby, jan.'6 , $ shares.
14024 & j Mrs * Sarah Harrris, » a ftiare. }
"» ra&'iri ■
j dit, ° * 3 (hares,
4°62 ditto 1 j (bares.
54 Nathaniel Le Cocq, a 5 fbare®,
55& 2221 Wm PeterLeCoajj ® 5 Shares.
«339 Joseph Lucas, 1 5 (hares,
>3i3« & ) Thom " Mull «. » J (harew
«957 ) Th ° ma * 4 4 (hares.
3.93 ditto , (hares.
2868 j WliffSm Raikes, . 5 (har, fc
2985 ditto * 7 (hares.
j9j dfitto 1 3 (harca. »
4067 Rev.Cba. Richards, » » (hares.
5714 Charles Steers, 1 I Clare.
ditfo . f 10 (hares.
3084 ditto r , (hares.
19131 8c ) T _
.9132 j J ame » Steers, i i each.
539 G «>rge Watson, t j (ha, es>
law6w G. SIMHsQNf, Cafeier.
w A N T E D,
A MUSICIAN,
Who is capable of compoHng Accompaniments, to
Songa for an Orcheflra. He must have »4 other er
gageraent « » composer. Enquire at the Officc ef this
rap«r.FOR SJLE,
A PLANTATION-, a
ABOUT i» milc« fromthisCity, situate in Abirgton sale
Townlhip, Montgomery-County ; containing 7° I s
acres, a new stone houfe,two stories high, » rooms on e —
fioor,fire places in each, a ftonekitchcn and stone fpn.g
house, over an excellent spring ef water, a barn, (table,
lheds, barracks, &c. A large apple orchard, and a variety
o! other fruit, about 12 acres of goodmeadow well water
ed, and wood fuffieient for fire, and fencing the place. ani ]
Foffeffion may be had the lft of April next. Property in s O ,
this City will be taken in exchange. Enquire it No. 37,
Arch-Street.
Philadelphia, September 13,1796- ttftt (
TO BE SOLD, - ~~
A LEASE for from yean,from the 25th March next, in that
capital and beautiful FARM, called ,
P R O S P E C T-H ILL, bel
Situated within one quarter of a mile from the Brandy wine H<
Mills, and half a mile from the borough of Wilmington.
THE dwelling -house is built of (lone, two stories ilign,
genteelv finifhed, and contains four handlome rooms on
a floor, besides an entrv, with capital garrets, and convenient _
cellars. It is geneially thought to command the moit a
greeable profpeft of the Delaware, from the source of that
rivet to the Capes. This profpeft 1a greatly ernbellifhed by
a full view of a vast body of meadow, through which the
Chn'ftiana and Brandy wine ereeks are seen winding in beau- I
tiful meanders. Near the house are a Kitchen, a spacious J
stone liable and hay left, a barn, a carnage/house, milk- ,h
house, See. and a well of as pure water as any on the conti
nent. The garden contains an aere and ot land, a- t J,
bounding with fruit, and particularly with peach trees, of j, Q
the very best kind, brought from Maryland, and m full bear- ti(
ing. There i», moreover, on the place, a young, apple t - (
orchard begining t. bear, and several old trees that produce p(
abundantly, besides cherry and other ornamental trees, in
great numbers. The farm cenfifts of near sixty acres of land,
of good quality, and clear of incumbrances, except taxes,
twenty of wineh are now in excellent clover and timothy,
ani ten more will he ready tor lowing next fprins- A ~
fidence of nearly 8 years has convinced the fublcriber that o>.
the filuation is remarkably healthy. The great pod load
from Philadelphia to the Southward runs within seventy fa
yards of the house. In a word, the beauties and convent- tfo
«nce of this situation cannot be enumerated in an advertise
ment, and when Examined, will probably command the at
tention of any per (on who is desirous of living at one of the
Oloft elegant country feats on the continent. The purchaser
may enter on the premiOs next spring, or prthapj, this fall,
if application be immediately made to Dactor NICHOLAS
WAY, in Philadelphia, to Doflor WHARTON, on t «
piemiles, or, in his ablence, to Mr. GEOttGE TRUII T, in >,
Wilmington. ... . ,
A quantity of excellent Hay, Grain in the ground, some k
Stock, &c. may be had by the purchaser at the time of sale. p
Nov. 7 eodtf C
f,
James M'Alpin* Taylor, b
No. 3, South Fourlh-fireet, s
RETURNS his-grateful acknowledging s to his
Triends and the Public for,their liberal encouragement, p
and begs leate to solicit a continuance of their favors. , (
He has on hand an extensive assortment of the
Mojl Fajhionable GOODS,
And of the best quality, suitable fcafon.
At this Ihop Gentlemen can be furntftied withthe best
materials, and have the*i made up in the neatest and most
Talhionable manner, and on the shortest notice. He will
thankfully receive any orders, and pay a prompt and
pmnftual attention., to them.
November 10. we
—. ■ i
The Elephant
is RETURNED FROM BALTIMORE.
THE public are refpcftiully informed, that
this animal is to be ieen every day, from 8
o'clock in the morning till fan down, in Market
ftreet, No. i®6, south fide, between Third and
Fourth-ltieets.
Admittance a quarter ef a dollar, that every ci
tizen may fee him.
C) - At the reqaeft of many perfans it will be
exhibited on evenings (rom five to tight o'clock,
*t half a dollar each.—The room will be well
lighted. November 7-
Treasury of the United States.
OTICE is hereby given to all persons who are or
IN may be Creditors of the United States, for any sums
of the I tided Debt, or Stock, bearing a present uiterrjl of f,x
%ir centum per annum.
1 ift, That pursuant to an Ad of Congress parted on the
aßth day of April, 1796, intitledan aft in addition to an
*a, intituled " An aft making fuither provision for the
support of public credit, and for the redemption of the
public debt," the faiddebt or stock will be reimburfedand
paid in manner following, to wit. " First, by dividends
" to be made on the last days of March, June aud Septem
" ber for the present year, and from the year one thousand
•' seven hundred and ninety-feven< to the year one thou
" sand eight hundred & eighteen inclusive, at the rate of
" one and one. half per centum upon the. original capital.
'• Secondly, by dividends to be made on the last day of
11 December for the present year, add from the year one
11 thoufar.d seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year
" one thousand eight hundred and seventeen inclusive, at
" the rate of three and one half per centum upon the ori
'• ginal capital; and by a dividend to be ma le on the last
«■ day of December, in the year one thousand eight hun
« dred and eighteen, of such sum, as will be then ade
" quate, according to the contrail, for the final redemp
ii tion of the said stock."
id. All diftinftion between payments on account of
ntereff and Principal being thus abolilhed by th« eftablifhj
ment of the permanent rule of reimbursement above dc
cribed, it has become necefiriry to vary accordingly the
powers of attorney for receiving dividends; the public
reditors will therefore observe.that the following form
s eftablilhed for all powers of attorney which may be
granted after the due promulgation of riiis notice, viz.
KNOW ALL MEN Br THESE PRESENTS, that
1 of
Jo male, tonjiitute and appoint
of my true and latvful At
tornty,fjr me,and in my name, tb receive th'e dividends ivhich are,
or Jhall he payable actording to lazv, on the (her* defcribillg the
stock) Jlanding in my name in the booh of (here delcribingi the
books of the Treasury or the Commiflioncr of Loans,
■where the stock is credited) from (here mfert the com
mencement and expiration of time for which the power of
attorney is to continue) •with power also an attorney or attor~
nies under bim,for thai purpose to make andfubjlitute, and to do all
lawful afis requifrtefor ejfeSting tbepremifes, betrhy ratifying and
anfirming all that my said Attorney or bis fubjlitute,jhall lawful
ly do, by virtue hereof.
In Witness hereof, I have hereunto set my Hand and Seal tbo
day of in the year
Sealed and Delivered
in prefenet of,
BE IT KNOWN, that on tie day of $
efvre meperfonally came
witbin named and acknowledged the above letter of attorney id be
his afi and deed.
In tefiimony whereof I have hereunto set my Han / tnd affix
td Seal the day aadyearlajt afor.Jaid.
Given under my Hand at Philadelphia, this twen
tieth day of July 1796, pursuant to directions
from the Secretary of the Treasury.
SAMUEL MEREDITH,
Treasurer ef the United .States.
July IJ. in &r nj
SALT PETRE.
A large quantity of Doftblt-Refined Salt Pet-re foi 1
sale at No. 25, South Third-street. el&ft
November j. h f'f
>- — - o tlf
FOR SALE, n
About i,6qo acres of Land, —
WELL situated, laving on and between Marsh \
and Beech Creeks, Mifflin county, Pennsylvania, 111
fo»r fepirate Patents. For terms oi sale apply to
Wm. Blackburn, \r\
No. 64, South S'cond-ftreet. two
Oaober 31. mwftf a C
' To be Rented,
A Large Vault and Cellar,
That will contain aco pipes, situate in 'Walnut
between Fourth and Fifth-ftreet- Also a COACH
! HOUSE and STABLE, with Stalls for five horfcs.
N. I}. Goods Stored by the month.
' Enquire of Benjamin W. Morris.
[ November 30. irmm
Lottery and Broker's Office, -
I No. 64, South Second street.
E ~"
- TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 2, for sale—a
I 1 Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
- the late lottery. / .
Check Books kept for examination and regiftenng, for ,
" the City of Walhington, No. 2, and Pattefon Lotteries, .
'' both of which are now drawing—information where
tickets are to be had, ttnd prizes exchanged for undrawn
e tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New-
e Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for nQ
I examination. ,
The fubferiber solicits the application of the public _ ,
!' and his friends, who wish topurchafe or fell Sank Stock,
,1 Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
it &c. or to obtain money on deposit of property,
d %* Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
y sale at Ten Dollars each, which will be drawn early in
i- the Spring.
e- Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, Augufl 18, 179^*
" s ' Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE. t
in No. 63 South Third ftreet,oppofite the national new Bank, j-
QAMUEL M FR 'UNCES and JOHN VAN REED, ce
,e O have entered into co-partnership, under the firm of
FR MINCES & VAN REED, in the business of Brokers,
Conveyancers and Commifiion merchants. They buy and
fell on commission every species of stock, notes of hand,
bills of exchange, houses and lands, See.
Money procured on deposits, &c. &c. all kinds o^
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatness and ,
" S dispatch; accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the j
lt; ' most correct manner. Coaltant attendance will begiven.
' They solicit a share of the public favor j they are deter- _
mined to endeavour to deftrve it. 2
N. B. The utnurfl secrecy observed. :
SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES, 4
eft 1 JOHN VAN REED,
oft Philad. August 27, 1796-. m&wtf
Horses taken in, ir
For the Winter Sea/en, £
And fed on clover hay at the Subscribers place, li tI
- ailes on the Bristol Road, where good (tabling is pro- ir
vided, and great care will b« taken of them n
William Bell.
iat Nov. 13. mwfzwmthtf.
ef- Citji of Waihington. c
n&
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11,
ci- FOR THE IMPROVEMENT 0 I THE
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent ) 20,000 dollars, & ? 000
: ' c > 5 ea(h 30,000, are 5 ' '
rell 1 ditto 15,000 & calk 25,000 40,000
I ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
x ditto 10,000 & cajh 10,000 20,000
I ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
I ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
1 cash prize of 10,000
'"? s j do. '5,000 each, are • 10,000
J lx do. 1,000- - - 10,000 (
t jj e 20 do. 500 - - 10,000
, ar , 00 do. 100 - - 10,000 (
t1,,. aoo do. 50 10,000
the 400 do. 45 - - 10,000
and 1,000 do. 20 20,000 (
nds 15,600 do. 10 " 150,000
em-
and 16,>39 Prizes.
IOU - Blanks. • '
1 of ■
ital. 50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
r of '
one N. B. Tofivour those who may take a quantity of
rear Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the last drawn
. at ticket, and the 30,000 the LA6T but one :
ori- And approved notes, securing payment in either money
last or prizes in ten days alter drawing, will be received for
lun- any number not less than 30 tickets.
atle- This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of the pri
mp- vate buildings to be ereiled in the City of Washington—
Two beautiful designs are already fele.fled for the entire
t of fronts on two of the public squares ; from these prawings
lifHg jt iapropofed to erett two centre and four corner buildings,
dc- as soon as poflible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
the them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
ibljc the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery,
orm A nett deduction of five par cent, will be made to defray
' be the necessary expenfis of printing, the surplus
iz. w i]l be.made a part /of the fund intended for the National
that Univerlity, to be erecled within the city of Washington.
The Drawing will commence as soon jls the tickets are
old off.—The money prizes will be payable in thirty days
At- after it is finifhed j and any prize* for which fortunate
i are, numbers aie not produced within twelve months after the
■r the' drawing is closed, are to be confidercd as given towards
r, the the fund for the Unive'rfity ; it being determined to fettle
>ans, the whole business in a year from the ending of the draw
:om- ing, and to take up the bonds given as security.
er of I'he real securities given for the payment of the Prizes,
ittor- are held by the President and two Direflors of the Bank
Jo all of Columbia, and jre valued at more than half the a
r and mount ot the lottery.
wful- , The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of
the late Commissioners afiifted in the management of the
al tb» Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake this arduous talk
a second time on bAals ef the public ; a fuffieient num
ber of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
friends'to a National University and the other federal ob
jeiSs may continue to favor the design.
By accounts received from the different parts of the
ti be Continent as well as Xrom Europe, where the tickets
have been sent for sale, the public are assured that the
affix- drawing will speedily commenae, and that the carc aud
caution unavoidably neceflary to insure a fafe disposal of
wen- the tickets, has rendered the fftort fufpeofion indifpenlable.
lions SAMUEL BLODGET.
4 §, Tiekets may be had at the Bank of Colsmbia ;of
James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter Oilman, Boston ;
!es. of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells*
ij , Cooper's Ferry. e»
Bank of Nortlt America*
THE STOCKHOLDERS are hereby notified that an
election for twelve Direitors for the enfuir.g year win i>e \vn
held at the Bank on Monday the 9th of January at ten d;
o'clpck.
RICHARD WELLS, Cafmer.
D"c. 6. gtpj. In
■ — —— X
Walhington Canal Lottery,
N0 . I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorised . !l
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand, int *"
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Walhington, fro«i th Po- n
| tomac to the Eastern Branch Hifi'uour. <
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz *1 Prize of 20,000 dollars, ao,eoo ilre
I ditto 10,000 10,000
tSSSS)
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
10 ditto 4°o 4,000 /
20 ditto . 10® a,OOO in a
55 ditto 5o 3.750 on
5750 ditto 11 69,008 mai
To be raised for th# Canal, 26,15s wtv
_____ Sou
5850 Prizes, 175,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000 a I
;£V The Commissioners have taken the Securities fe old
quired by the aforefaid a£t lor the punctual payment of cos
the prizes. a ®
The drawing ef this Lottery will commence, without wh
delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timely his
notice will be given, a 1
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after the pai
drawing is finished, shall be considered as relinqu-ifhfjd for ag;
the benefit »f the Canal, ar.d appropriated accordingly.
(Signed) NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, ?/"D. —
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
WM. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW, Pl
JAMES BA&RY.
City of Wathigg-.cn, Feb. 11. $
Paterlon Lottery.
FOR railing fix thoafand fix hundred and fnty-feven P
dollars and fifty cents,, by a dedudion of fifteen por
' cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a priz*. viz £)
I Prize of 5000 dollars is dollars 5000 f v
■ j 1000 1000
1 i 500 s®°
, joo ioco p
20 roo - 10°°
99 50 , 495° -
1 200 a-5 5000
e 1 2000 10 20,000
5 Last drawn numbers of rooo dollars each, 5000 I
2332 Prizes. 44,45° T
4018 Blanks. c '
6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44,45° d
By order of the Directors of the Society for eftabliffi
ing Ufeful Manufactures, the fuperintendauts of the Pat- it
erfon Lottery hive requested the Managers to offer the a
foregoing Scheme to the public, and have diredled thom
4 to refund the money to those persons who have purchased o
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets v
n thisLoftery.
I>e lottery haia&ually commenced drawing, and will t
continue until finiffied. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes a
may be seen at the office ol William Blackburn, 64
south Second street, who will giveinformation wheretick- I
ets may b.'procured.
Dated this 17th day of June, 1796.
[ J. N- CUMMING, 7 1
' JACOB R. HARDENBERG,\ Managers, t
JONATHAN QHEA, ) s
STATE OF THE WHEEL. t
1 Prize of 5000 ... 5000 ,
I 1000 - 1000
I 5«o 7 s°° <
j 200 • I®co ]
20 100 - - 2000' I
90 50 4500 I
165 25 " " " " '
The five last drawn tickets, iooo.eich, 5000
Being ill the valuable prizes,' besides a full propar
tion of the 10 dollars.
As the Lottery is considerably more than one third
drawn, the value of the undrawn tickets is great
ly inereafed, and it it worth the notice of those
who hold tickets in the old scheme, that they can ex
change their tickets for thoie in the above, if th&y ap
• ly soon, and at a moderate advance considering the j
now real value of an undrawn ticket. - j
The tickets being nearly all fold, the drawing in
' future will be oftener, and the Lottery soon fiuifced.
x . mw *
By Authority.
of
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
iey
for Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, Wo. 64,
South Secand-Jlrtet.
>ri-
;r; SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
rijr S For railing Sixty Thousand Dollars, agreeably to an Aft o(
the Legislature of Pennfylvasua, paired during the lalt
JL' feflion, for building a Stont? Bridge over the River
• y Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, in the County of
, m Berks. Dollars.
i Prize of ao 00® Dollar - 20,00©
r ' i y x (io. of 10,000 do. • - 10, Coo
U5 3 dp. of 5,000 do. - *s>°°P
na * do. of 2,000 do. - - 8,000
n. %o do. of 1,000 do. - 20,000
are 3g of 500 do. - - *9'59°
ays go do. of 200 do. - - - 16,000
late 200 do. of 100 do. - 20,00 c
the 300 do. of jo do. - - 151 1000
<rd« 1 do, of 500 do. to be paid the posses- ) 0
M l e I for as the firft drawn no. J
lw . 5 do/ of 3,000 df>. to be paid potTeflbrs > 000
of the live last drawn nos J
zes, 9,400 do. o 15 do. : - 141,000
an J* 10,054 Priirs 300,000
10,046 Blanks ' ————
' 30,000 Tickets at Ten Dollars 300,000
'yf All Prizes Uiall be paid fifteen days after the drawing is
C finilhed, upon the demand of a polMor of a fortunate
""i 1 ticket, fubjea to a dedu&ion of twenty per c«nt. The
l " e Dtawing will commence as soon as the Tickets are difpoftd
ob " of, or perhaps sooner. of wliich public notice will be.given.
Philip Miller, Peter Kerjhner, William Witman,
kets Hiefler, James Diemer, Thomas Dundas,
the James May, John Otto, John Keim, Danitl Craejf,
and ISebaJiian Miller, Commissioners.
1 of Reading, May the gth, 17g6.
ible. Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. 2, to be had at the
abave office, where the earliest information of tUe4raw
; of ing of the Waffiington No. a, and Pjtterfon Lottery's,
ton ; are received, and check books, for examination and regif
'ells' tering are kept.
OAobcr 7. " aawdf
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL will open hisfchool on Mon
day the 31ft inft. at ten o'clock in the morning, at his
Elegant Aew Ball Rooms,
In Fourth, between Chefnut and Walnut Street'*.
Hours ps tuition for young ladies, from 10 to 1 o'cloek
on Mondays, Wednesday, and Friday morrmigs; and so?
young gentlemen from 6 to 9 o'clock on the evening
the fame days.
In addition to a number of paw he mean* W
introduce a variety of Scotch Reels.
Note. The fir ft pri&ifcng ball to be on Tilefday e
vening, the firft of November, and to be continued every
Tuesday, during the season.
For terms, &c, enquire at his house, No. 134, Market
ftreet.
Oft. 17. tthf
A Manufactory FOR SALE.
A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE M*nufa£lory, fftuaw
in a convenient part of the city ; the almost new,
on an entirely original conftruftion, and built of the best
materials, and may be set to work immediately. Perf >n»
who wilh to purchase, are requested to apply »al No 273,
South Second Street. September 1,3. t t.( t'l
Twenty Guineas Reward.
RAN AW AY from the fubferiber on the 2sd O&'ober,
a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSES ; 21 years
old ; about 5 feet 8 inches high ; had on a mi*ed green
coat, with a green velvet cape and oval yellow buttons;
a striped veil: a pair of dark spotted pantaloons, and
whoie boots much worn. It is probable he may change
his name and dress. He has been aceuftomed to driving
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will be
paid for fccuring him so that the fubferiber may get him
again, and if brought home all reasonable charges paid by
Robins Chamberlaine.
Eafton, Maryland, Nov. 10. 14 f-imaawtf
Le' Breton,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Dentist to the
Kftig and Royal Family of France, member of the
College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris,
Keeps a complete aflortment of every thing neceflary
to be used fot^fhe
Preservation of the Mouth and Teetbs
/Patent Mineral Teeth, and Human & Ivory Teeth ;
Detitrifice in powder ; Opiate ; excellent Elixir fer
1 sweetening the mouth and preserving the twth —he
' alio furnifhes Bruihes and foft Sponges.
' * # * H4 lives in Chefmit-ftreet, No. 135, abeve
' Fourth-street.
* November 16. tts
> u
I Samuel Richardet
1 T> ESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
- Merchants, that he has this day opened the'CiTY
3 TAVERN and MERCHANTS OOFFEE HOUSE in the
city.of Philadelphia;
The Subscription Room will be furnifhed with all the
3 daily p»pers ptlblilhed in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos
- ton/Baltimore, together with thol'e of the principal com
- Mercial citi«s of Europe—They will be rag>larly filed
e and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
I Tea, Coffee, Soupet, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
d «f French Liquors; together with the usual refrefhments,
is will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
II the choicest of Wines, Spi;ituous Liquors, and the moil
:s approved Malt Liquors fromDondon and other breweries.
4 I'he Larder will befupplied with the prime and eariieft
produdlions of the Scafon.
Large and fntall Parties, or {ingle Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Sappers, at
hqurs mo ft convtnient to themfetves —a cold Collation h
6. regularly kept for conveniency, the Billof Fare to be had
at the bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be eempietely furnifhjd, and
the utmost attention paid £0 clcanlinafs, and every other
10 requisite.
10 £3" SiMDEL Richardet will behappy to receive, and
'b execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
>0 large; and with gratitude for their favours', he pledge*
lO'l himfelf that nothing on his part shall be wanting h; pre
>o serve that patronage with which he has been so
15 ingly iionored. 1
;o Philadelphia, April 19. mwf
r- . ■
Treasury Department,
. September 28, 1796.
"X TOTIOE is hereby given, that proposals will be ro-
C IN ceived at the office of the Secretary of the Treasury
*" until the expiration of the firft day of March next en-
P" j ruing, for the supply of -all rations which may he required
j for The use of the United States, from the firft day of
i June, 1797, to the thirty-firft day of May, 1798, both
m days inciufive, at the places and within she diftrl&s htre
d - after mentioned, viz. At Ofwego; at Niagara; at
_ Pjeftjue lfle; at Sandufky Lake, and on
Rivar; at Detroit ;at Michilimackinac; at Fort-Frank
lin; at Pittsburgh ; at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hamilton ;
at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-Jefferfon ;at Grenville; at
PicqucTown and Loramies Store; at Fort Adams; at
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance; at any place below Fort
Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Eric; at Fort
4» Steuben ; at FortMaffac ; at any place from Fort Maffac
to the south boundary of 1 the United States en the river
MifliGppi; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiatanon.
If supplies shall be required for any posts or places not
D ( mentioned in this notice, all such supplies shall be fur
lall liiflied at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
vc posts before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed on
(if between the United States and the Cop traitor,
srs. The rations to be fupplicd are to consist of the fol
>oe lowing articles, viz.
300 One pound two ounces of bread or flour,
joo one pound two ounc»6 of beef, or fourteen ounces of
3°° pork or bacon.
50u Half a gHI of rum, brandy or whiskey.
s°° One quart and half a pint of fait.
111 I wo quar " of (per hundred ration.
Iwo pounds of Soap, ( 4
so ° One pound of Candles, J
joo The rations are to be furnifhed-in fach quantities, as that
there shall at all times during the said term, be fuflitient
300 fofthe ceufumption of the troops at Michilimackinac, De
,oo troit, NiagaTa, and Ofwego, fer the term of fix month* in
advance, and at each of the other posts, for the term of
oeo at least three months in advance, in good and wfiolel'iome
provisions, if the fame shall be required. It is to be ur.-
Jer flood, that the CorytraAor is to beat the expenee ar.l
000 risk of issuing the supplies to the troops at each post, an I
g is that all loffcs sustained by the depredations of aa enemy, or
nate by means of the troops of the United States, shall be pawl
The for at the price of the articles captured or destroyed, on
>f f d t h e dcpofitioßs of two or more persons of creditable clr-.
ven ' ra&srs, and the ccrtifisatc of a commiflioncd ofliecr, ;.f
---ian, certain the circumstances of the loss, and the amount
■las, of ths aitides for which ooinpenfation shall be claimed
ff OLIVER WOLCOTT,
J*' Secretary of the Treasury.
the '
PA iNTED-BY JOHN FENNO,
Jf — No - "9~
CHESNUT-STSEtT.
if [Price Fight Dollars per Annum,]