/ /
. #a?ette m States, & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
* - • - *. «£ '
NUMBM* i WEDNESDAT EVENING, NOVEMBER 16, 1796. [Volume X.
■ _ . . , , , . t-. -* r •> * Al ■> iIT IN J/T T> * »/* MnT n »S A
For Sale,
At Public AuiUon, on Saturday, November 19th mil. at
at the Merchant! CoffeeHoofe, 6 o'clock in the even
ing— 1
Ihe brig FLY,
Virginia built, of the best materials'
fiieathed on the stocks to lijht wa
ter mark, is not t wo years old, burthen eighteen hundred
barrels, or there ab'Uts is well found in every rufped, and
fails remarkable fad—is ready to recsive a cargo immedi
ately. to be fern at F -otmon k Co Auction
■ mom. Ob board at South Street wharf, or at No, J,South
Fourth Street, by applying to the fabfcjiber,
George Blight. \
Terms of payment —approved indorled cotes at», 4,
and 6 months.
Nov. Z4. ? Iw -
For Freight or Charter
To Europe or the WJiiies,
Th. new Brig FAIR AMERICAN,
Richard Calley, Matter ; burthen 14? tons; has
good accommodations, and is now ready to receive a
cargo: —apply to the Captain o* board, firft wharf j
above the Still-House, Seuthwark, or to
*» Jfaac Harvey, jun.
Who has now for sale, at his store, No. 5, South!
Water-street,
A quantity of Cayenne and Trinidad Cotton
Spanish Soal Leather _ ■ I
And a parcel of Carolina Rice, in whole and half 1
tierces. nth tfto. nth. dzw I 1
For Madeira,
The Jhip Concord, I
O Capt. John TlTbmfon. For freight
«Ks3eOSß§££=or passage apply on hoard, or to
Pettr_Jslight; I
'jC Who has for sale, a quantity of
Brandy, in pipes
Whiting and Copperas, in hogsheads I
Old HilCk, irt cases
Dutch Cream-Cheese, in boxes I
Window Glass
1. Empty Gin-Cases
Glass Ware, in boxes
Painters' Colours, ground in oil * I
Sweet CXI, in cases of a dozen bottles each I
Hazlenuts, in faclo. I f (
November 11. dim I
Wanted to Charter,
v f a fi-f a^n Z Vtjfoy c<
B '■ That will carry sor 600 barrels ; to I
A- "3iisa9}>&f load immediately for the Weft-Indies.
Apply to
Peter Blight.
NWentber ta. 0 dx I
For sale, freight or charter,
STir.ieN Smith, IWaftfr. I
A ** *■"'*» thrrr mm tm-fken. epm. I
ii pletely round, and may be font to sea -without any j
OJpenie. For terms, apply on board, at Clifford's whart, 1
or to JOSEPH ANTHONY & CO. •
hov. 9 {
— S For Safe." ' """H
The Ship CHARLOTTE,
A stout vcffel, about 150 tons bur- I
then, well found and may be sent to
at 1 na " c x pe-ice. I
Apply to I
Joseph Anthony and Co.
Nov. 8.
FOR SALE, L
7he ship M.-mr,
SAMUEL PARKER, Master^
** 3,SSst;£±a£S T\tfohundrtdtoßs biirthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, kCo.
If the MARY is notfold in a few days, flit will take
freight for Hamburg. Apply u above.
/ Oflober 31. d
Just arrived, and will this day be lan
ded from on board thi brig FAVORITE at Chtfhut
street wharf.
25 Tons beji Rnffia Clean HEMP.
j6 Tons old Sablr fltt I ROM, I
*00 Coils best Ruffn CORD AGE, aßWrted fiies,
- 490 Pieces brown RoflSa SHEETIKGS,
ICS Bolis Ruflia DUCK,
*40 Pieces Rlvfcns do.
so Half-down feather beds, a»d
A few piecesaborted DI/> PER. ' . I ,
FOR SALE Br
Joseph Anthony and- Co.
T-tL. The a ' )ore Mentioned BRIG I <
fil'* * fewd *V«. >"d .take freight 6n —
moderate terms for liofton or Salem, for j
or passage, apply on board or as above 1 n
Oftohcr jl, . f j JSj
or London, | c
TheJhip William Penn,
Jofiah, master. Will fail with a ll l '^s
. speed. For freight or palTaE®
apply to the Captain on board, or to j
Jefie and Robert Wain.
November 10, j I
" ' ' r * y *' f "i IIT 1j • I
For Liverpool, j
The Ship DOMINICK TERRT,\ £
Jacob D*hart, Maftcr. I —
Has a part of her cargo engaged.—
(oS. For freight or passage apply to the mas- A
ter on board ( at the whir", of the sub- *
feribers, or,
Jefe & Robert Wain. "°£
t Nov - I- . d
A;
TheDanifh barqße Bemrtinturl, J
Samuel Stub, Master,
A oood veflil of about two hundred A f
toes Burthen. For freight or passage A n
»PPJjf to Anc
JeJfe Ssf Robert Wain, j E
Nov. ; 4 d. J :
To fail the \Jth infant,
k ' at Fof Bristol,
ven " The new fh'p Philadelphia,
Theodore Bliss, master, now onher second voyage;
has elegant accommodations for passengers fails i«-
• , , markabty tact.—For freight or p-ffage apply to the
11S master, or to
Thomas and John^lifiord.
and Nov. 12.
iion FOR LQNDON >~
su'.h tl ? CERES,
,-CTo fail form For freight or passage
t-■ apply to ROBF.RTS & Co. or
'' 4 ' y°^' n Vanghan,
r. September To. From-ftf-ft ■ ;
er For Charter,
C2n The Ship JOHN DULKELT,
Ayrks Stockliy, Master.
LN, An excellent five-oak and cedar built i
as f .ip, of about 3000 barrels burthen, —Ap- <
urf P ' y W J# & Robcft Wain.
J Nov. d. j
uth I For'Sligo and Killibegs, )
The American Ship NANcr, j
I Cuthbert Ripgs, master.
fiaif [ Will fail with all convenient speed. For 1
it freight or passage apply to t, i
William Bell; 1
Who has for sale,
1 4 Trunks ?rinted Cottons, well aflbrted
] 3 Bales Irith Flannels, aiid a boxes Linens
g' n xi Pipes Brandy *
Madeira Wine | Indifo. Riifßa Matts.
Alfr, J
A few barrels Prime IRISH BEE?, PORK,
OATMEAL, Ac./
Noteniber ir, 1796, mwftf
For SALE or CHARTER,
>«s TJje Briganli/ie LIISERTi",
JEREMIAH MURPHY, Master.
I Now lying at Albertfon's wharf —
I fbe is an excellent veflel, will carry a
j 1300 barrels flour, is completely
I found, and ready to receive a cargo. For termp, ap-
I ply at No. 149, South Front-ftfeet.
IVhere may be had by the path age only,
I A fisa-il of DRY GOODS, just
I ceived —cemfifting of, G
to Cloak, ) 4
I Superfine Hairbine, & > CAMBLETS.
China J
t rapes,
Corded Poplins,
_ I Sattinet Laflirig, Sitt.
J Alp a frw baits CALCUTTA GOO OS, Vik.
I Guzwnh*,
j Baftas,
1 Coffaes,
Tickerys, 7
I Punjim Cloths, jf
"f J GuiTahs,
rt 'I Black Tjfffetirt,- *
I' Barhar,
w. Pullicat, & £ HANDKERCHIEFS.
Bandanna J
I Choppa Ronials,
' r _ I Patrta Chintiej, ke. k?.
to Eikewife a few hhds prime MdlailVs.
I A large quantity of best Rhode-Maud Cheese, rc ,
1 50 boxes Spermaceti candles, and c r ,
I A few birrels Beef.
paoher %j „eoHyt —
Just Landing,
At South Jlrett wharf, frtt* eti Uard the fh\p Stdg
ley, Captain Hodge, froin St. Ptterjburg ■,
The following Goods:
to I Rulfia Sail Dick, firft quality.
Do. Shbetmg da.
fe I Do. Draper.
Do. Huckaback.
Do, Cralh.
— j Do. Mould Candles, 4, 5 and 6, to thi lb. of th«
I Eng'irh size.
" Do. White Candle Tallow.
ut Do- White Sotp in small boxts.
j Do. Cordage of fine yarn.
I Ravens Dnck.
I llinglafs, ift ahd |snd fort. l n
j Horse Hair uncurled.
I RufGa Bar Iron.
I Do. Hoop Iron. 4"
I Do. Nail Rods.
I 10 Tons Oakum and Junk.
St. Feterftmrg Clean Hemp: Sh;
For Sate bf
Philips, Cramond, & Go.
I Oiflobcr 1%,
nj m " — J
>r For Sale, i
L \By J. WARDER, PARKER & Co.
I An Invoice of Cordage,
Confiding of different fixes, from 12 inch cables do<vn
Ito ro ? e of » inches, of different length,-. Imported i» 4n
J { the Sw ' ft . Hull, and entitled to drawback rca
. U #- V dtf
For Sale, ,
By Jehu Hollingpworth, Ess Co.
I h hds - VVeft-lndia Rimi, 3d aad 4th proof,
1 $ Barrels best Indigo, and,
A few thousand bulheW Turk's Island Talt
' I Og. 17. , . ' d
I tor Sale,
Poffellion w, II he givih in one mohth, or sooner. Pa ,
For terms apply to WTLLfAM BELL or S,
Apr?! HtCTOR CALBRAITH.
j ~ —— ; —— — S Poii
FOR SALE, ' >h;
j A few hogsheads of choice New-England RUM, Prir
A number of harreli of BEEF, and PORK s ™<
And a few krgsnf LARD, of a fuperior quality. Ho J
Er.qu.reat No. 71, north Watfr-ftreet \
I November 8, 1796, i[{ P lc
TH« Parmerfliip of JONATHAN HARVEY k Co.
being this day DiiTolved by mutual confeftt, those indebt
ed to fa d firm ate requeued to make speedy payment to
Jenathan Harvsy, who it authorized to receive the fame,
and iliofe who have any demands will please to bring in
rt ' their zccoßßtt to him for fettkmcnt
the fbt Bujinefs will be Continued
By Jonathan Harvey,
AT HIS STORE NO. ios, S. I-RO NT-STREET >
tts Where he haa for Sale,
A r afifortment of Dry Goods'.-
J-.o<*MT)l,gr 14. 1796. ' jrm
a e e JOHN MARKLANP,
or Printer, Beok/cl/er, and Staticner,
No. 91, South Front Street,
lias received by the last arrivals from Loudon, an aHort-.
ment of Stationary, which he will fill on the most
reasonable terms, confiding of—
A great variety of copper-plate printing paper, from
33 by 17 inches to the finalleft fixe ; fiiperfine, iimpe
jift rial, fuper-royat, royal, medium, demy, folio, and
Lp- I qtoirto po!t, foolfcap and post writing paper ; marble
ind bio'ting paper, large and small rnelTage card 3, far.d
and pounce boxes, shining land, ink and ink-powder,
pencils, quills, crown, half crown, and common f:ze
Irifli wafers, coloured And red; India rubber, pen-knives
leai and pewter irik-ftands, do. chests, cork soles, copy
books, dates afid pencils, Entick's dictionary, VVatu'
psalms, &c.
Also, some elfgant prints, an aflortment of blank
er bonks, American manufaflured writing paper, do. play
t ing cards of a fgperior quality; and a collcdtion of
BOOKS, London and American editions.
Koy. n. $6t.
0 L D
London Particular Madeira Wine,
In pipes, hog/heads snd <juarter-ca(ks,
dir. at Chefnut-itrect Wharf, apd j
for (ale by
Antbany & Co.
~ Ko *' '• S i_ '
Bert. Boston & Nova-Scotia Mackard,
Excellent Halifax Salmon in bbl».
47 bbls. prime Coffee,
a „ Best Boston Beef,
,]y Qodfifh in hd».
p. Spermaccti Candlei,
Spermaceti, and 1 r» 1 r
Northern j Oil..
Mould and dipt, ta'low candles, of a fuperipr
quality.
A few boxes excellent brown f«ap,
6 Bales of Corks.
40 Pipes Lilbrtn Wijte.
A few fa*.lis of Ejathtri.
A few bales India Muslin».
FOR SALE DT
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
OiSober jr. . d
The Cargo of the Poiatre Independent,
TAIN CATHCART, from Alicant and L»f-
I J) , 'i"?'") f-iMirii ,r« wh*rf—
18 Pipes of iirandy ,
it Bales of Spanish wool '
3 do, of Annifeed
7<fni) BulhSls of be ft Lilbon Slit
80 Boxes of I,emotis
For faje by VVILLINOS & FRANC,IS.
ALSO,
Seventy Tlogfhe»d« of prime J AMAICA SUGARS,
received by.the fbip Domjnick,'Ferry, Capt. De Hart",
Sroth KingfioH.
- <» - ■
For Sale.
1 7 cases coarse hail .
Copper bottoms :nd_fheWj
Shot, all fizei, patent and common
Sheet ahd bar* lead
KnglMh shoes and boots iacifr, ♦
Tift p'ates
Gold watches
Taunton ale in cask«.
Apply to
e Simon Walker 3
I*4, So. Fourth Street.
K <*- *• d l4 «-
Irish Lineris, &c.
Imported per the foipi Gin/goto, from Dublin, Liber• t
tj, from Cork, and btig Mentor, from Bcifaft,
4-4 and 7-8 Wide IRISH LINENS, c
In whdle and half box6s, a
Assorted from ltd. to 4s. sterling—Also s,wide
Sheetings, and low priced yarn and werftcd Hose v
On Hand, ]
7-g Wide Lawns.
Diapers and Table-Cloihs ''
A few boxesTiekens and Checks *
A few bales Flannels ''
Cork and Belfaft Sail Cloth, Ho«. I arid 6 ''
»J Boxes -) r6 b g .
10 Ditto V Window Glass, ) 7 by o
$ D \ tto ■ - . C 8 by 10. J"
j "he above mentioned Goods are all entitled to the
1 drawback, and will be difpofcd of by the package on ,
reafonabie terms. » ' 1<
James, Clibborn & English, „
... , No. 4, N. Front-street. d]
loth mo. 19th. (j t f (j
A CAPITAL ASSORTMENT OF ■)
DRY GOODS.
John Miller, jun, & Co.
Excluf.ye if'their own Importation now opening, "
Have received by the William Penn, Caroline and Diana th
CONSIGNMENTS,
• comprize a capital alfortTnent to open a a
Dry Good;. Store. bj
Common, super and fuperSrie Ckth"
Plain, twill'd and ilrip'd Coating,
Baizes and Flannels, ' p
Point, rose and .luffil Blankets,'
Plain and puntea eaffimeres, ?
Swanfdovns, ~ r
Printed Calicoes, "
Scotch Threads,
Hofiesy.
They will be fold cither in whole, « r b part by the fa
5355 ssssr'""KtP I
:0., GRAND PATENT AND OTHER.
\ c o Piano Fortes.
le > TUST arrived ; uncommon attention fias been given
,a J to the finifhing of these inftrurnent*, which arc i;i
a stile entirely new, ar,d superbly elegant. Ad-Jed to
which, purcjiafirs-will have an opportunity < ' feler
ting from a greater nnmbtr than was fver ofitred for
„ sale, by any person *tn lliu city.-viti being a cntifign
» men:, and thepUjeft of thp conficner a fpeerfy return
of the proreedf, they w ill be fold on liberal terms, at
S»' W. POYNTELL't flore, No, jo Chtfnut ftrvet/
November 9. ir, V . >
.LANDING,*
Out of different vejfch from England, and for fait
by the fuljerilers on req/onable terms.,
rt*- Superfne and crmmon cloths, and ciAimers
5 " Ribbed and striped do. do.
Elankets , mottled green and (ilk rugs.
If> Superfine blue, Claret, and common coatings, *
ie- Kerseys, Bear-Aiins, plains and Halftuicks,
id Swanflcins, Serges and Flannel*,
lie Britilh Ingrain Carpeting,
sd | Hatsaflorted 16 cases ox 1.4 do*, each.
■r, Chocolate chintzes, printed Ca(licoe» and Handkerchiefs.
ze Scarlet Cardinals, and Scarlet Snail,
es Yafn, Worded, and Cotton hofisry,
3 y Beavers, Tfiiekfetts, Velvets, Corduroys, &e. &c.
Buff and drab Cenoa Cords of a superior quality.
6d. id. lod 1 id. aod. nails, and frying pans,
|g. An affort.ncnt of Ironmongerry, Cutlery and a variety
of India cotton, and ftlk goods.
of 'Thomas & *Jnfhua T'tjher.
No. 5, Dock-lltrect.
Also by the Glasgow from Dublin,
1-8 and 4-4 Irilh Linens.aflorted.in boxes of 30 pieces,
do. Brown, Glazed Linnen.
W iif.
» i. ■ ■ '
d Printed Caliches.
• JOHN MILLER, jun. & GO.
Have received per the William Pcnn, iti addition to
"" their own aflbrment;
A consignment of twenty trunks of Calicoes, ele
gant London patterns ; alio a few cases of haudlome
Buttons—Which witl be folJatjt fliort credit, on very
reasonable terms, by the package only.
° a - dtf
Males of India Goods.
The Cargo ef the (hip Gr-n~es, capt. Tirtgey, from Cal
cutta and Bengal,
ir consisting or
A Large and general assortment of Bengal and Madras
CO 1 TON and SILK GOODS.
AMONG WHICH ARE
A variety Jine ivbrhed andf fain Mb/fiks,
Dorcas, t>V. Alio,
A Quantity if Excellent ,Susar y
In boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER,
For Sale by
Wiliinga is? Fraficis,
No. ai Penn Street.
* J unc a §
cf Washington.
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11,
FOR THE JMPROytUEtIT 0 t IHR
FEDERAL CITY.
A \ io,oco dollars, St}
cwdling-hou/e, j caO» 30.000, »re j 0,000
1 ditto ij.ooo $. caffe 15,000 4P,000
? I ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
' I ditto 10,000 & ca(h 10,000 ao-otjo
I ditto 5,000 & c'afh 5,000 jo, 000
1 ditto 5,000 & cast 5,000 ,0,000
I cifh pme of I0)000
1 do. 5:,000 cach, are . 10,000
iq dp. I,oop . . . I0)000
»0 do. J OO - - TO,OOO
00 do. 100 . . ,
a w do. 50 . . , o>ooo
85 * * I0 ' 0 »°
K'ZZ 90 * 30 ' 00(i
15,003 do - «° . - fju,ooo
'6>739 Prizes.
Ji»a6i Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dolbr,, , 400)000
N. B. To favour thoft who may take a quantity of
• " cket ind r P s nZC of4o, °° o d °"«> will be the last drawn
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one :
And approved notes, securing payment it either raonsy
, or ,n ten <la y s »"•<■ drawing, will be received for
any number not less than 10 tickets
v ,I h K 3 -h ott " 7W r iUaffordan tbepri-
T»nl "n! r e " in the Ch y of Walhington—
Two beautiful designs are already feleSed for the ent.r
fronts on two of the public fqaares; from these prawin«
it lspropofed to ered two centreand four comer building?,
ih/m X P 1 '' lottcr r Wrfd, and to convey
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers in
f r thC ftheme forthe Hotd Lottery.
V atdedua.on of five per cent. wiUbe made to defray
w'm " pen e r °l Ps' nt «ig, the surplus
will be made a part of the fund intended for the National
t0 "M d W,thin the cit Y of Walhington.
soU off rT" E Wlli COmmence 45 fß °" « the ticK™
fold off.--.The money prizes wiU be payable in thirty dars '
nLmh• tMfi nifl>ed; aiad any prixes for which fortunate
numbers ate nptproduced within twelve months after ths
drawing uelofed are to be donfidered as given toward
the fund for the Umverfity ; it being deterLred toS
the whole business in a year from the ending of the draw.
>ng, and to take up the bonds given as security.
T r*fr f «ur.t,es given for the payment of the Pri2-«
are held by the President and two Diredors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the '
mount of the lattery.
~ gentlemen who by, appointnwnt nf
the late Commifiioners afliftcd in the manaLrnent of t)?,'
ndl-" 7 are , r^f? fted t0 undertake this arduous
a second time on behalf ef the public ; a (uffi c ie*t num
ber of these having kindly accepted.it is LpedlL £ e
friends to a National Umverfity and the other federal nl
jeAs may continue to favor the design.
By accounts received from the different t>a«. .1.
Continent as well as from Europe where thAt
have been Tent for sale, the public are affurcd tha't th*
drawing will speedily comratn»e, and that the carl
caution unavoidably neceffarv to infurp a faf- at r «
.5. Tldtrn way tc thf
James Weft & Co. Baltimore •of Pm,,- oluml) '> iofm
PantlieQn,
AX D TtIC'CET-75,'5. AMPHITHEATRE,
For Equestrian and Stage Performances,
Comer of Chefnut and Sixth-streets
THIS EVENING, Wednesday, November 16,
Will be piefented,
A VARIETY OF
Pleasing and Novel Entertainments ;
ACT it
Tight Rope Dancing,
By Mr. Spinacma.
Clown to the Rope, Mr. Durang.
ACT 11. |
Horsemanship,
By Mr, Rickette, Mr. F. Ricketts, Mr. Franklin,
Master Franklin, Matter Hutchins, the Youhg
American, and Mrs. Spinacuta.
Clown to the Horsemanship, Mr. Sully.
ACT in.
A Ballet Dance,
Under the direction of Mr. Duraag, called
Poor Jack ; or, the Benevolent Crew.
Poor Jack, Mr- Durang.
Ned Haulyard, Mr. Sully.
Boatftfain, Mr. Cojjlc.
5i,.43* }
Mrs. Cafey, Wapping Landlady, Mr. Tompkins.
And Orange Girl, Mrs. Durang.
ACT IV.
Equestrian Exercises,
By the Equeftrsan Groupe.
The whole to conclude with the splendid Panto
mime of
Don Juan; or the Libertine Deflroy'd.
Under the Direction of Mr. Sully.
As performed at Covent Garden Theatre, forty
nights, with unbounded applause.
Don Juan, Mr. Sully.
Commandant, Mr. Tompkint.
Lover, Mr. Durang.
Fisherman, Mr. Coffie.
Sailor, Mr F. Ricketts.
' ' And Scaramouch, Mr Spinacuta.
ift Fifhwoman, Mrc. Durang.
2d Ditto, Mist Robinfoi*
Donna Anna, Mrs. Spinacuta.
An accurate description of the Pantomine to be had et
the iicket-OfE.ce
Mr. RICKETTS takes this opportunity of inform
ing the Ladies and Gentlemen who attend the RMing-
School, that he has, at considerable expjnfe, engaged
Mr. Franklin, ts give leflons in the art of riding and
managing Horses, as he finds it impossible to attend to
it himfelf, in consequence of a variety of bufmefs
which he is at present engaged in.
*„* The Ladies and Gentlemen who feciire feats i
the day time, are requefttd to attend p'ltK'hully at 7,
is the performances are so arranged a» to concludeb
JO o'cloek-r-the doors will open at 6. ,
gS" Box, 7s. 6d.»--Pir. js. 9d.
Tickets to he had of Mr. Ford, at the ticket office in
Chefmit-ftreet, from ten to three o'clock each day.
gjP .Silver Tickets, to a imit for the feaion, to be had
by applying to Mr. P fciietts at the Pantheon, or at Oel
fers's Hfctel.
Cs* Days of Performance to be Monday, Wednes
day, Thursday and Saturday.
The Elephant
IS RETURNED FROM BALTIMORE.
THE public are refpeftfulfy informed, that
this animal is to be seen every day, from 8
o'clock in the morning till fun down, in Market
ftreet, No. 106, south fide, between Third and
Fourth-jheets.
Admit »nce a quarter of a dollar, that every ci
tizen may fee him.
(£?■ At the requeil of many perfsns it will be
exhibited on evenings from five to eight o'clock,
at half a dollar each.—The room will be yell
> lighted.
November 7. d
Robert Smith & Co.
No. 58, South Frcnt-Jireet,
Have received by the late arrivals frem London, Liver
pool, and Hull, and by the Ohi® arrived at -N. York
from Glasgow,
Aiarge & general aflortment of Goods,
Suitable for the Season, confijling of
Duffle, Point and Role Cheeks, in small packages
Blankets Oxnaburgs and Brown Hol-
White, Red, and Yellow lands
Flannel Brown and white Ruflia
Boeking am?other Baizes Sheetings
Second aud coarse Cloths Drillings and Diapers
Plain and mixed Caffimeres Calicoes and Chiptzes
Plain, twilled, and striped Jaconet and Book Mufiine
Coatings I)o. d©. Tamboured
Plains, Kerl'ej-s, and Half-" Do. do. Handkerchiefs
thicks Printed lintn mcf check d#.
' White & spotted Swanikins Roma! and Madrafs do.
Lainct and fwanfdown veil Muslin and Chintz Shawls
fliapes Bed Ticks
Carpets and Carpeting Table Cloths
Caliuiancocs and Durants Lace# and Edgings
Moreens and Taboreens Faftioiiable Ribbons
Joans Spinning and Crapes Do. Hat; and Bonnets
Camblets and Wildbores Cotten & Wortled Hosiery
t Bombaiecns dc Bombazets Gloves and Mitts
Rittinets and Shalioons White & coloured Threads
Plain, Genoa and printed Italian Sewing Silks
Velverets &"1 hickfets Ivory and Horn Combs
7-8, 4-4, and 11-8 Cotton Tapes, Bindings, Pirts, &c.
They hare on hand a large assortment of India Muslins
and Calicoes, black and coleured Persians, Bandanna and
Pullicat Handkerchiefs, &c. and a quantity of Nutmegs
and Macc.
Prober 17. m« ft m
' Jufi Landing,
And for Sale, a quantity of
~ ■ • 1 IJOURiDEAUX BRANDY,
FROM onboard the/cheoncr Lydia & Polly, Oliver
Jenkins master, lying at WUcock's wharf. For
terms, enquire on board faiJ schooner.
November ttth. J IW
(J«tlpard Cenas
Witt open his Dancing School
On the ift ot November, at 10 a'clock in the morning,
. at O-l'fr'.V Hotel. Oct. 17. *mwl'4
City Dancing Afiembly. ~
The firft Aircmbl)' will be l>eld oa I'liandav next, the
t;th November, at Oellers's Hotel.
By order of the Minajjers.
Not, 14. 5
For the Gazette of the United States.
PHOCION—No. XXIIT.
' NOTWITHSTANDING the influence of the
•>> passions which raged with so much fury at the time
Mr. JefJerfon sent in his commercisl teport, and
the artful manner on which he and his partizan»
J seized on those partizans to direst them to the fop
port of -their dangerous purposes, yet the enlight
ened difeiifTions which took place in Congress and
the public alarm which was naturally excited at the
impending danger united to defeat the views of the
Secretary : after a debate of several weeks, his
friends, being unable to carry more than one Soli
tary resolution, which Mr. Madison * himfelf con
'* fidered ss altogether irifigni/icarit, gave up the con-
tell in despair ; country efcaptd at the fame
time from the hotrots of war and M r > Jelterfon's
schemes.
Before we take leave of this famous report, the
theme of so much panegyric, it wii! be proper to re
capitulate, that—although it contained only fifteen
. short pages, near three-fourtl»s of which conlilled
of facts, taken from books of rates and commer
cial documents, and was the labor of almoll three '
years—yet it teemed with blunders; that whenever
it attempted to reason, its principles were fsjfe, in
confident or inapplicable to our Gtuation ; that the
means recommended were pernicious in tile extreme,
and the end prapofed dishonorable to the Unjted
States; and that the time, fclefted lor carrying it
into effc£l, evinced a reliance more on the ptfii hj
and prejudices than on the judgment and patrittifm
of the legislature.
It will be proper also to ihew, in this place, '
that although Mr. Jefferfon recommended hojiile £
• measures on the presumption that Great-Britain |
.wat not disposed to enter into a commercial treaty
1 witli the United States, yet that soon after he quit- v
ted the dffice of secretary of Hate, a ci*»imercial
treaty A-.as concluded with that country, on teims j
fimilar to those, which he had fuggellcd in bis re- c
port, as the ba/ts of such treaty. c
In page 14, he fays—" Sueh being tile rediic- fl
tions on the commerce & navigation of the United
States, the queflion is, in what way they may bell
be renSoved, modified and counteracted ? As to
commerce, two methods occur, ift. By friendly
arrangements with the several nations with whom n
1 these reftrifiions exill ; or, 2d. By the ftparate S
aft of our own legislature for countervailing their
. efFefta. There can be uo doobt, hut that of these f'
. two, friendly arrangement is the mofi eligible." In
ip. 19, fce fays—" Still it must be repeated that l '
1 friendly arrangements are preferable with all who <'
3 will come into them, and that we fheuld carry in
s to such arrangements all the liberality and spirit of "
accommodation, which the nature of tl»e ease will I tl
admit.'' He then'immediately adds—"France has,
, of her own accord, proposed negociations,'' &c. n
and immediately after, " Prop|fsls of friendly ar- c
rangement have been made, on our part, by the P
) present government to that of Great Britain ; but 0
beijig already on ts good a footing in law, and a f<
j better in fas, than the molt favored nation, they °
• have not, as yet, dijeovered any difpofiiton to have P
it meddled with." It is evident then that he here P
proftlTes to prefer friendly arrangement on the most ti
liberal terms, and only recommends the other ifter- :, l
native, because Great-Britain had declined such b
friendly arrangement f. ■ f(
; Mr. Jefferfon resigned in January, 1794, 8
( Mr. Jay was inßrufted in the April following, to
revive with the British government the commercial c
j negociations, which the coolness of Mr. Jefferfon "
had interrupted. ■' c
Let us now take a view of the principal csufes of
complaint, which the report dated to ele'll against ,
j Great Britain, and fee whether Mr. Jay's treaty K
does not remove them.
j The report complains—ift. That our commerce "
and navigation were not secured by fixed laws 3
2dly. That thei'e was a want of re<iprocity in the 1
duties imposed ou the commercc and navigation of
the refpeftive countries. The treaty with Great. !•
Britain completely removes both these grievances ; •
for our commerce and navigation are now secured V
by treaty, a greater security than even sn aft of
parliament, and a perfect reciprocity is established "
( in refpeft to the duties ou the imports and shipping
of the two nations.
i He ofc.erves—" Tnat where the circumstances
of cither party renders it expedient to lay a reve- Z
nue by way ef impolt, on commerce, its freedom
might be modified, in that paiticular, by mutual r '
and equivalent measures, preserving it entire in all
others Some nations, not yet ripe for free com.- a
i merce, in all its extent, might be (till willing to v
mollify its reftriftions and regulations for us, in ''
, proportion to the advantages which an intercourse w
with us might offer: particularly, they may concur
with us in reciprocating the duties to be levied on each P
fide, or in compensating any cxcefs of duty, by ri
equivalent advantages of another nature." Now, &
the treaty is predicated altogether on these ve.y n
principles. Had Mr. Jefferfon, then, been disposed f :
■ to negociate with Mr. Hammond, tbere is no rea . n
son to doubt, that a treaty of commercc might
have been concluded between them, on the prin*i- *
pies which Mr. Jefferfon state* in his report, as the u
true basis of a con mercial treaty. ti
I As t0 'he compbint in the repoit, concerning
; tl,e - non-admifiion of our veflels into the Briiifb n
A The refolutioii, which is immediately the
fu&jeft in debate, decides nething with refpeft to a dtf '
crjmmaticn between different nations.; it declares „
in general, that the situation of tlie United States re- ■
fometkmg to be done, iis the way -of coimaer- "
hafed! « if" 8 , IT'"' and y " has been com " P
Lnl.c » m S 0 ? involve tmbariaffing prefer- w
ti.ccs. Madison s fpcech, p. 59. tl
f Those wh?> have read the correfpondencc between fl
\lttl rf" f Sm /f°n d n,uft wcll remember that the b
* lo flr froirfdeclinmg so evter into friendiy zr- tl
rangenients, expr. fsly wrote to this efFect, in hi/let «
-er, 6th Dcce-mber, " "Although lam not , "
powered to.conclude any defin.tive arrangement wkh f
refpecft to the commercial intercourse between ti^Two
coiintrie. Ift,ll man it t0 bc undc ' ((ood r<
e " ,er ! Mo » negoeiatioa for that pur. P
r r^ cl P r °cal advantage," and that
■ Weil-Indies, uis true, dist the terms of the trea
ty were m»t«fuch as we withed ; but bad as they
were, fbey were certainly better than any we have
been able to obtain from Spain or Portugal, in
i refpeft to which countries, the report had even re
commended a cessation of our exifiing regulations,
j on the presumption that they would concur in doing
whatever juliice and moderation dictated'
From the foregoing 1 remaiks it clearly results,
that, although Mr. JefFerfon artfully prtfejfcd a de
cided contidlion that it was more for the iutereft of
( _ the United States to enter into friendly arrange
ments'with other nations, than to wage a commer
cial warfare with them ; and although it app'eared
U from letters, and the treaty so
soon after concluded, that a commercial treaty
might have been concluded with Great-Britain~on (
the very principle eftablilhed by the report as the (
, proper balii t»f a commercial treaty ; yet the secre
tary, after waving hindelf a negotiation, took ad-
vantage of the exilling portions and prejudices, to (
press forward a system of commercial hoflility,
C which, had it succeeded, mud have soon involved ua
, in misery and war. j
r . The fecretary'j reports on the Jtjheries and on t
•e weights and rbeafures, still remain for examination. I]
1 PKOCION. I,
i- i i
e c
From the Centjnsl of Liberty. p
d — \
t October 30, 1796. c
J Mrjfrs. Gritn and Englijh, p
J fend for publication in your paper, a letter ta- c
ken from the Alexandria Gazette of the 2jth Inft. n
The author Mr. John Taylor was lately a Senator c
1 of the United States, and is a decided friend to Mr. "
" JefFerfon. This isithe gentleman so often quoted as 11
havingjieard the declaration of Mr. in fa
" voiir of kings, lords, &c. but »ho has not yet, that n
we kno"- of, favored the world with the certificate
so long threatened.* It will not be difficult for a dif- V,
eerniiig public to discover in this letter, the real
cause of his enmity to Mr. Adams, and his friend
• (hip fur Mr. JefFerfon. 8
I a
Caroline, July 11, 1796. d
Dsah Sir, # n
It being tinderftood that Gen. Washington will ti
not be a candidate for the prefldeocy nf the United 1]
States, my personal acquaintance with all whom 1 n
have heard named as candidates for that office, and i*
for the Vice Presidency, has determined me to of-" tl
fcr my fetvice, as an elector to one diHrift, hecatife d
this acquaintance enables me to eliimate accurately w
their political principles. ' in
I shall rely, upon yourselves and Mr. J —s (to el
r whom 1 have also written) for its being known to ir
1 the ciiizensof Hanover. And as 1 with every man *
, to vote in pursuance of his own uninfluenced jud r- f.
. ment, this is all that can be proper for me to do. If l ei
. candor compels me to add, that the current of my tl
: political epinions is uofrieadly to the chief raeafures ir
(. of the federal government—juflice allows me to as- vi
t fert, that it proceeds from a dirtnterefted conviction li
r of thefemeafures, having violated the mod valuable in
: principles of the constitution, What prinei- ct
■ pies ?] and that they threaten to remit in a revolu- pt
• l ' :)n - i»,l°fothc CQTcreinent nlarcd it
. tne hands of adminiuratora, who wi(h to bring it t<
, back to the rep|jjlican ground, from which it has fe
so widely wandered. From what republican k
1 ground has the government widely wandered ?] ra
> I am yours, &c. tf
J Strange to tell, it is thought that with these prin- !;
ciples, this Mr. Taylor will be elefled ! It is not ; n
s bc > as well as other leading men in rj
t Virginia should entertain them, for that was before
known ; but it is really matter of astonishment and „
regret,-that a majority of the voters in any diftrigf .1
, United States, should be found to give their
approbation to the man* who so publicly avows
them. , This could never be, if the majority ef the t i ;
P freemen had the right of fuffragc in Virginia. Un* j.
til this right (without which no government -can be fir
; free) be imparted to the great body of the people c ,
j in that fiate, ii.itead of being confined, as at pre
f . 1 '* tbe ease, to making but a small
I minority, not more perhaps than ooe sixth of the
whole people, we may continue to be amused with rv
their boast of exclusive to republica- .
nifm—but we must not forget, that the government v ; r
•where the few govern the many it an arijloa'aty.
Mr. Taylor, it feemi, wishes to be an eleaor, $
I that he may get men for the offices of the Prefi. ' fit
1 dency and Vice Presidency, who like f.imfelf dif- [ <*■
, approve of the chief measures of the fcJeral go- lif
> * Crnmc " t ' anJ 0 WI 'H bring it back to the repab- be
, hear .ground, from which, he fays, it has widely B
. w-andeicd—in other words, he will vote for Mr. Tef- ti
r ferfon, and I preftime for Mr. Burr. Now, the g<
' p . f0 P le of Maryland, who are really republicans in w
r rights, as well as principles, do not believe that the "
( government has wandered from republican ground— "
' fvftem '( | W,GI tO , f " Wlltf and just "
, system of pohc\ adopted by that great and good M
man, our President. Conf.quently, ,!t ey w -ill Let E
t be induced to vote for men, as eledtors who avow A
" ffi 7v r 6 rT f " >cr who vvitl vote to the firit tl<
:to beTt th 1 i. 18 '"' 3 ma " Wh ° 16 believed lh
to be at the head <* the party, whose political cpi- (<
'■ n lIIv l i V ' CWS ' r d,da ; C f ° r Hanov " »»a. ho- tu
, nei.lj, but locautioufly proclaimed. |[ c
A Friend ta equal Rightt. ca
; of *. " "'so the gentlem*!), who pasTed most a"
of the time he was feimor of the United States, be
. truing pamphkts ag.ift .he g W ,nS,Tnd so
■ waar| U Usf f fUB * n S which he fti
' Zhe trArt l^ Bc '"8 3fked Whc * l!l
the late Secretary of the Trca- fe
' hY S hC anfwcrcd l,ot in the least, he ar
: , '' m bc pure and hone If, but he cr
• ou g ht h's abilities daß.rerous in a republic. Here ui
; °i W Cui "'' FaUthct - who was apc
good deal in the fecrcts of the pretended patriots— is
( W mtertepted letter, » that Mr. Taylor, afc
' wiVl!! I' u'V h V fC " a,f> P ubl ''n>« thrce w
, pamphlets, in which he affeited that the decrepid th
: em U T 3 u r '' rCr " !tin atf rom the Ending fyf j u
tem, could not but presage, under a rising govern- {r
mcnt, either a revolution or 1 civil war." er
a . For the Gazette of the United Ststei. j
Z " N*. IV.
in To the Eleßors of the Preftdent of ths United States
Refpeflable Fellow-Citizens,
s " MERE verbal disputes have been often the
causes of the greatcft confufion, danger, and in.
jury. Verbal sophisms have frequently dishonored
S ' and injured the mofl interesting topics of bufiiiefo
e " r politic* and science, and are peculiarly dangerous on
[ conjlitutional fubjefts. It is thciefore of no fimU
importance to take some notice of the manner in
r " which the term " republic," is used, tli>eughout
" The Defence »f the American Corjlitution." What. '<
° ever may be the fcnfe in which a few book politi- ,
cians have occasionally used the word, in mere dif.
" cuffions upon paper, the public Jlyle of Great-Bri.' ?■
tain, for example, has always been to call itfclf a
j" kingdom. A Brinfh minilter, who fhonld ha»cp Jt .
fented to the king a draught ot a proclamation,or
other official aft, terming that government "arc
' public." or, " a commonwealth," would certainly 1
be exposed to very fcrieus confluences. A mem.
ber of their legislature, who should move an addiefj
n .to the kmg,or a bill for confuleration, ityling Great-
Britain " a commonwealth," or, " a republic,"
would be very fortunate, particularly in thcle times,
if he efwtped with being called and compelled to or.
der. Some writers, who have used the word " re
public,'' fiitce the restoration of the second Charlei,
have been treated with the most acrimonious crit'i.
~cifm ; and the botiftf of commons,' even on the op.
position fide, has "been tbe public theatre of far
eafms and denunciations against "republics." The
members of the minority itfelf, have repelled the
. charge of " republicunifm," as a damning imputa.
tion. It is tlx appropriate n.ime for the most ex
( treme hoflility to the British conliitution. '
Mr. Adams perfectly well knows the fenfc ia
which tlrtr practical and theoretical politicians of A
mericit and at least the practical politicians of Eng- |
land underltood and ule the words Republican and
Republic. They all fonfider a Republic and.a
Monarchy as diametrically opposite. In England
a publiftted bookv pi'ovin jj «..[ and perluading to i '
a Republican form of government, would beconh
dered not only as highly offensive, but seriously pu
nishable. When our learned and enlightened conven
tion framed our Federal Conliitution, they certain
ly confi(fc'red an hereditary limited monarbhy, as
no republic. They meant representative and elect
ive government and not hereditary government. In
this intention truly, and in no other tty: people a.
dopted the Constitution. An oppofir: azfeniu* sjj
would have been fatal to the instrument, i'.felf. It
is finccrely and faithfully ia the representative and
elective fenfc, that the Federal Conliitution pro
mises, that it will guarantee to every state in the ' |
American Unien a jfr;publican form of government.
As no such aft of guarantee has been yet consider
ed oraccomplifhed, it is of confc<juen*;e to olfervei
that in the isthpageof the American edition and '
in the 2id of the London edit4.n in the piefate to
volume I, Mr. Adams expressly affirms tttar"« v a
limitad Monarchy, efpeciaHy-when limited by two
independent branches, an aritloeratical and a demo
cratical power in the cenAitutiou, may with JlriEt
propriety be called by that natpe," viz. " a Repub.
l'f will nearly follow. that ? f a> ' <
tempt should be made, in future, to convert the
several states into hereditary governments, with
kings and nobles, Mr- Adams would deem such a
meauire " properly and in truxh' 1 within
the meaning ot the terms of the Conftituupn. In
the 34th letter, be exemplifies this peneral asser
tion, too plainly to be m'ftincierftood, by an eviit- 15
ing favorite example, for he affirms that " the con. j
flitution of England is in truih a RtfufJic, asiil I.js I
ever fceen so considered by foreigners, and by the \
most learned and enlightened Ejigli Sitae 11, although
the word commonwealth has become unpopular and
odious, since the uirfuccefsful and injudicious at
tempts to abolish monarchv and ariftacracy between
the years j640 and 1660." (Sec page 208 Lon
don ) Confideiing how ingenious, bold
and tenacious the poflifJbrsof power often are, we
cannot but fee in thole two kindred and connected
assertions of Mr. Adams, an ample foundation for j
a serious, dangerous and fatal verba! fophim, by
which the high and strong barrier against hcredita- 1
ry power, contained in that paj t of the cwnlitti
tion, may be got over, without Uie trouble of
breaking it down.
This 34th letter merits very particular attention.
Mr. Adams begins by faying, he had promiferi to
state the ideas of Sir Thomas Smith concerning the
m utability of governments. Sir Thomas had pub- j
hfhed, in the remote reign'of queen Elizabeth, a
book, entitled, " the Commonwealth of England."
But after a few lines, which have not the, least rela
tion to the pron>ifed (tatement of the mutability of
governments, Mr. Adams difmifTc-» Smith's work,
with these words. " But as there is uOthicig re
" maikable, either in favor of our fyttem or a
gainst it, I should not hare quoted the book in
" this place, Lut for the fake of its title." And jaj
Mr. A then goes on to fay, " the- ecmrtiitition-of
England is in truth"* republic 1" Here we fee Mr. \
Adams purposely introduces in an aiTthor's meieti
tie page, tho' he mentions that his book, has no- j
thing in it of any consequence to his "_uefer.ee,"
(on purpose it mult be again said) tohave an o'ppor. 1
tunity of giving a good name, the name of reptit.
hVto his favorite govtrnmeftt. "Surely, Mr. Adr.irs
cannut expect the world to believe, that the Britilh
conftitu'ion is either like durs, because it was called
a commonwealth in the title page of an antique
book, written two hundred and twenty years be. M
fore ; or that it is in any degree the better, in fiib
ftance, bccaule that was then.gjven to it, or
that we ought to consider as immense dif- j
ference between our reprefentatite governments,
and that real and indifpntable compound of arifto-
craey in two thirds, and of monarchy in.one third,
uujnixcd with even a virtual representation of the
people. This fla'ement the Bntifli government
is forced upon us by every volume, bv the whole
fcupe, and spirit of Mr. Adams's work. It wai '-jH
wished to avoid the remarks here made, and those in i
the close of our last papet - , but it ilittipa'fible to do jg
justice to this deeply imerelting difcullion, wrthotil j
treating explicitly of that 'governsient, which »
erroocoufly held ug as the great exemplar for Am:-f/ / "
rica and mankind—at the mofl ftupendoui /abrtfc of
human invention—as the politieal magnum bsnum ;
matured by time upon the tree of liberty.
What then arc truly the political functionaries
under the Britilh constitution. They are,
I. A king holding, hereditarily, the monarchi
cal third of the compound, we hare mentioned.
11. A house of lordly holding one of those thirds
of the compound, which we hare called ariftocra
tical.
111. A house of commons, at it is conflituti
onally denominated, which is completely indepen
dent of the people, in a clear and efficient majority,
and is truly an aristocracy of gentry, and of the
clients of the lords, holding its powers on th»
foundation of landed estates, which dcfcend as he
reditarily to a liugle person, as the estates of the
lords, or as the crown irfelf. There are feme ot
cafiooal exceptions, when great and wealthy pur
chasers, (till clearly of the ariftocratical quality,
buy tu'ith coin the feejimpli of a decayed borough,
together with the appurtenant feat in the house of (
commons, or purchase, at the ele&ion-markets, s
the votes which are for sale. To such a number t
do this kind of members amount, that the largest J
house of commons which had ever assembled, before j a
the American war, was returned from places, the ii
majorities of whose whole number of electors were
no moie than five thousand feyen hundred and
twenty-three, in a kingdom with about eleven mil
lions and an half of inhabitants. If t:.e whole of a
the voters in those places (both the majority and
minority) were eleven thousand five hundred per
sons, they wpuld only be about the two-hundredth f|
part of the adult males. For a nation of eleven .
millions and fin half persons, contains about two
millions three hundred thousand males of lawful
age. After this review, which is believed to be
neither materially incorrect nor uncandid, we may \
fafely affirm, that the house of commons is a true m
and absolute aristocracy, principally of hereditary
wealth, and partly of pecuniary riches. The arjf
tccratic influence of many rich and powerful fami
lies, commands the feats fur foroe entire counti®, I
-|'rams dirrdrs BThffrj. It refultstinanfweralil}', as we
' humbly conceive, that rhe British ihoufe cf com
mons are not the representatives of the people ;
that its powers are wielded by persons who have no
eleftivc relation to 199.200 th parts of the freemen
of Britain, but an interest as ariftocratical ami as * '
pppofite, as that of the lords. Is then "ihecon
ftitution of England," truly " a republic?' 7 Is it ( ' e
preferable to our's ? It that constitution, which is
f hereditary in two branches, and a flufiuating arif- 7 n
toctacy in the third, likeow's, which is teprefen- lm
taiive and elefivve thtoughout ? If it has preserved tw
liberty better than the dtfpotifm6 of the European l '"
continent, are we prepared to abandon for it our cul
federal constitution ? It is to us the most astonish
ing of all fadb, that becaofe the British and Ame
ricans have made three divisions of power, we
should be coafidered has having governments of To
three £>rders, like,*the king, the noble, and un
noblei aristocracies, which have obtained from the
unrepr.-rented people, the whole government of '
Britain. As well might we represent a pedestal, girt
retting upon three iron columns, as similar tq one nnd
supported by three non electric pillars. The whole exil
dfjgulg. nn thjg magical influence «f il.e ouj.
monosyllable THREE. In reason, they are op- ber
t'fO"- ' rwi
hut the fcqnel of the fame 34th letter of Mr. c*<
Adams remains to be reviewed, and well deserves the
the serious confideiation'of the Elefiors. Wa
A FEDERALIST. land
-a-- 1 11 ' 11 ■ ■ 1 ■■■■ , ——
Benjamin and Jacob Johnson, bit!
_ No. 147, -Market-ilrect, roll s
Have rectived by the last arrivals from Liverpool and 1
Hull,
A -very gemral ofrlment nf DRY GOODS, ?
Well fuitcd to the approaching season, which they will e
fell on the leweft terms by the piece or pai kare.
Oflaber 14. taw 4 w
Just Imported,
Ift the fchoOuer Lucy, Capt. Prows, from Madeira,
and to he fold by
ELLISTON & JOHN PEROT,
?. Best .London particular Madeira Wine,
. Three years old, pi
In pipes, hogsheads, and quarter caflcs, fit for im- ,
mediate vfe.—Thev have also for sale, .
A few bags of Juniper Berries. '7 !
w*, 4 w :
- gaiis
£jr Any of the Inhabitants
Of this City, who raoy be disposed to accommodate '
Gentlemen with BOAiiD and LODGING for a few Were
months, will please to fend their names and pijfces of rl,ote
abode to the lubferiber at Gonjrrefs-Hill—who also ir, g.
wilhes to hear "of a well turnifhed PARLOUR anri an ea
' TWO GOOD BED-ROOMS, with L" d 'f or l Whe
small Famdy. THOS. CLAXTON.
rhiizdelphia, November 12.
Washington' Lottery. 2°"'
The 36th and 37th days" drawing of the Wafhinoton 1
' V' ".'.received at the office N O . 234, Mar- ~ .
ket-ftxeet, where tickets may be examined. Harn
N. B. Information given wlicre ticktu in all the other Hon,
lotteries may be procured. otiier - p
N»vemhur 10, 1796. d
Imported la tU lau
rV ejt" airs i
Holland Gi,n, iv, pip es Do
Choice St. Croix Sugar and Kuni
Martinique Moiafos, ir, hogiheads
Choice.old Lilbon Wine, in n. i»c _„j
London Particular & London Market Maddra 'Wme' De(
Ml"r P £T"' j !f plpes " nd c.a S '
wit w.
S a j l i S:rjw K"'ves,'iu cast,
Mill bawls and frols-cu Saws, in bo.xes
, r , „ 0" hand, .
• k M -'-
For Sale by Ne «
oacE,, „ V C,.
dawci&thiin
hnum ; PHILADELPHIA,
tonaries WEDNZSDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 16, 1796.
•narchi- OFFICIAL.
>ned. Return of Votes fiom Huntingdon County,
e thirds Federal, 314
iftocra- Anti, ' 21
iftituti- Majority for the Federal Ticket, 293
idepen
3jority, State of votes in Loudoun diftriA, Virgim'a, for an
of the Elector of Prcfident and Vic? PreCdect.
Bti th* Powell, 450 in Loudoun,
Ruffell.j'S 8 .
° r the in tauqwier.
ne ot- W
* P 1 ""- 208 majority for Powell.
uality, _
rough, By returns of the votes in those diffrifts of Mas
>use of fachufett's repreprtfented by Dwight Foster, ,
irkets, and Samuel Ltman, Esquires, it appears that j
umber those gentlemen are re-elected by large majorities,
largest Joseph Allen, Esq. is chosen Elector of Prelidsnt
before I and Vice Prefidcnt in the Worcester Diftrift. He t
s, the is a firm Federaliit.
v
s were —
d and Elcdtri for Kbode-IJland.
n mil- Arthur Fenner, Samuel Pottci, Wm. Green, 1
ole of George Champlin.
y and „
I er 8
re'dth Le Citoyen, P. A. Adet previent fes .
leven f" 5 ' P 3l ' ordre <lu >irt,<aoire -E* ft ' l,t ' f ■' a ail "
twc jouid'hui notilie a M. Le Secretaire d'Etat la fuf- 1-
awful P'"'' oo es fonftiuns de Mimllre Plenipotentiaire de
° 9 j)t ' a Republique Fransaife, pres les Etats Unisd.'A
tna nier ;i ue > et qu'en consequence de la dite fufpenfi
t true ° n ' "' S l^' vent a p art de ce jout addreffcr leurs de
litarv man<jes ou rec ' am,t,on 'q ll 'Conful General, ou
| aux Consuls psrticuliers de la Republiquc.
fatni- ' e z 5 Brumaire, l'an seme
n( j — de la Republique une et in
j, wc divisible (le ij Novetnbci, 1796, V. S.)
P. A. ADET.
•pie ; Remarks of the Aurora.
ve no tllc ""'ification signed P. A. Adet in this
smen s P a P tr , it appears, that the Miniifer of the
uJ as 1 re "ch Republic has, by order of his government,
con- bis miiiifterial funftinns here. Mi. A-
Is it ( ' el f nofc communicating this determination has
ch is ten handed to 113 for publication. lis length pre
arjf. *ent| its immediate publication ; but to fatfsfy the
;fe n . ,rn P af iencc of the public'we (hall give in a d*y or
rved two a " <etc h of its contents. The diiratisfadlwu of
pean l ' le Fiench government at the coudwft of our r^e
our cut ' ve towards them is the ground of the maafure.
Fm the Gazette ot thi Unitid States.
we
sos To the Free and Independent Citizens of Attic
un - lies.
the Pel!civ-1 .'ilizens, j
of THE approaching eleaion for your Chief Ma
' g ll » r « tr . is the fsrsY which has been a couhjed ore
one under your present constitution— indeed, li..ce your
, e exiitenre as an independent ration. How caref„l
Hie ouj.hr you preserve its purity. Remem
op- ber the numerous instances i.i history „f the inter, r e
rgice of foreign powers, , n all countries where then '
. <vh ,e f elective. It is well known tha;
■vei the tLmprefs of Ruflia always marched an army tr
W arlaw, previous to tie eledtion of a Ring, of Po
land ; & fh_e generally fycceeded in 'choofiug a Ivinc
__ for the fnbjugated Poles.
• thia g ,,ke As.Mttrfk a-ttmpt
in the United States, at this critical period, let it
roule your just indignation.
lnd ,he i oice of a Pre of the "United
far,l"" a " y ACT ° f 8
»ai ' a,ewc 'l t0 s'our liberties and independence.
nationaLjPßJ&E^
BY THIS DAY's MAILS.
ra > — i,
BOSTON, November 9.
e > Federal Election. 1
m . - O" bft, t he:dr - zin , of t(i . s c ommo „. is
wealth exercised their tight <rf fovereigoty ft denut-
J fourteen men to represent them in the congress '■
of the United States j and sixteen to be their or
__ gaus <h the ejeflion of the President of the Union
J wo tickets were tn nomination in this town, „„d
ite "' e f " ch - their usual industry E,
, w werefor many days bgfy ,n their endeavors i 0 on!' blan!
of mote the men of their choice.—On Sunday even 3179
so mg, two Caucuses met, &on the e ß fuin,T ,v'r„i,„ ~~
> Wl"^heooS a Tfr\ obfe, ' Ved :U
a Wlien the poll closed, the votes were A] 2
FIRST MIDDLE DISTRICT.
_ „ Fo * SLtCTOR. ' P'P CS
Hon. I homas Dawes 0 rt "
His excellency Samuel Adams
r" H . r „ J[ 0R RIp RSSENTATIVE. 9 ' >
Harnfon G. Otis, Esq.
;r Hon. James Bowdoir, Efq
Roxbury— Mr. Dawes 9 \
Mr. Adams t
Mr. Oris 77 {
Mr. Bowdoin A
Dorchester—Mr. Adams {
Mr. Da wet ,9
Mr. Otis 3
6 rv JI Bowdoiri
Dedham.—Mr. A/laius 7 ° No .
Mr. Dawes
Mr. Oti 4 t l 3 r
Mr. Bowdoir, >3 11011
Wefton,— -Mr. Adams 62 S MI
Mr. Dawes cut, H
Mr. Otis 3 and ot
Mr. iJowdoin 65 Hin s e '
Brooklyn— Mr. Dawes 0 s™"
Mr. Adams ■ » 2 3
Mr. Otis IO Iqw p
Mr. Bowdoin 20 Needle
Newton.— Mr. Davvc '+ Hooks
Mr. Adams « 7
1 ' . - c ! 1 Hndf,
I Air. Lowdoia &c
5 04le
SSS'r ■ 'SECOND MIDDLE DISTRICT. •
Charlcfton and Cambridge, a majority for the
hon. Mr. Varnum, as representative, and Mr. Ger
-1794. ry. aselsftorr Watertown majority for Varnum;
unanimous for g-en. Brooks.
THIHD MIDDLE DISTRICT.
nt r* Salem, hon. John ,hon. Mr. Hcjlten
11. as elector.—Hon. Samuel Sewall 93 ; Loami
Baldwin zi, reprefer.tative.
Marblehead, Mr. Sewall, 91, S8 reprefenfative. |
Mr. Norris 49, Mr. Holton 24, Mr, Hall 16, as
elrftor. i
for an Beverly, Mr. Sewall 30, Mr. Baldwin 33, as
reprefrntative.—Mr. Brown jj, Mr. Holton 41,
for eleflnr.
Lynn, Mr. Norris 56, as elector; Mr. Sewall 67, '
at 1 eprefcntative.
Mtdford, Mr. Hall 41, as ele&or ; Mr. Sejwall
40, as leprefentative.
- In the fccond Southern diftrift,
The hon. Mr. Read, is voted for as reprefenta- J
ster, t [ TCj an( j t^e j\f e fjf rs- Seaver, Robins, and
. ,' at Beals, as ele£tors. 0
l ' le Southern diltrift,
He ' > ° n r ' !Caton > 28 re p r cfentative, gn?
the hon. George Leonard, as reprefcntative, are
voted for. '1
C?" VVe cannot vouch for the intire accuracy of y C
Sreen, preceding numbers ; they are not far from the j
truth.
In the firfl diftri£l, Col. Dawes, and Mr. Otis, i —
are certainly ele£led,\ j
a an- - , 1 a s
a fuf- List of Prizes and Blanks in the
irede Wajhington Lottery, No. 11.
d, A ■ _
jenfi 36th Days Drawing-, Nov. 5,
rs de- y*. D&. tit. piU. Ivi. DM. Nq. Del,
1, ou & 10 11062 21591 35392 ze
111 l8 7 22584, 10 91J xo
feme 6 W- 10 36660
466 10 4SB 64a 10 7.70
1 tiSli 10 7JJ MJ 10 . 786
&•) 74J 12056 10 23766 37357
r. 9XO 084 10 804 I 0 706
4 loSi 10 530 10 35704 9 7i
this 'I® ' 567 8 33 38 OJJ
•l. 4 ° J 10 7 C 5 971 39145 10
lne 779 10 13084 10 26128 10 12?
tent, I 0 J0; aM IQ » I 0 L ;
A- 3iio 8a x 4 .,, 7 ;i
has 5* 1 14491 849 10 41453
pre- '9 s°° 905 42615 Ar
the 4 P?. i 4l 10 2 7058 43172
or «7» 827 298
f >*5* 936 28245 463 1
m y *«* J 52 7 0 263 44396 20 —
5* e " _ 32,1 498 291 10 5^6
ure. }0g xo 624 - 6-9 627
844 10 16675 , 786 01 648 10
964 771 793 667 , 1
6451 876 iylid ?00 by
7022 i 7 ir 3 . 30296 45129
me- *"i 567 31168 i; 8 of i
631 32043 -? 2 T J .
10 946 10 26 s 361 ilrll
Vfa. 10 x8 <* 8 10 • 46416 10 £
3/4 470. 416 - g 6
♦!*?, 531 10 655 4m »
our .594 10 949 . 33XI g I
eful ~m 19 982 390 ,g' *
cm. 797 lo 19*55 664 too
rfe 30 J °6fi 95 6 49412
ICli 10 °45. 852 1.0 ,34498 5-3 1
ha; ali s3 502 thci
t 9 i 4c6 6t3 10 Con
' 37th Days Drawing, Nov. 7. par,
- o A». Del,. A'». A r », IW>. A r «. x> >
J 4194 28555 10
'» 3 ® 3<>7 29-74 10 g lt
PT *' "° 3 30408 10 41T47 xo T
• 924 10 621 jrin I 0 !- s exct
.929 15133 10 JC B . 208 io ftre,
, - 5 -;: 0 9iß i" 61S rb j6O 10 '"'P
■ eC '56l 16078 10 723 7 Vg char
8/5. 10 . 9 5 9 731 xo 9 c6 wh !
7 7i39 32222 10 969 10
537 X36c 4 i86 . i0 N
10 3.314 j ?7 - %■
8450 X 0 0 46 249 10 44007
86 2 20830 269 c / 2 I 0 —
9536 2X617 io 288 Q i o
lO lt IO tot 835 IO 45404 10 By '
'■9 803 34014 10 Q, 70
957 10 22282 2 g 3 IQ 9 ? /
111 167I 67 321 48069 r
7.0 10 69a 10 i 43 L
m. 12x41 JO 23398 715 xo «
,t- 159 24292 35390 I. T:
;fs 3 25164 7 3 3 • so;
454 10 27686 36633 |3I XO w .
n. 995 39765 xo 49x98 xo n , F ,
„ d 79:1 1 4°249 890 •
Ew-ors-in the 34jh days drawing-inftead of 22180 BI - e
u - 3 pnZe of 10 dollars— and for
n _ 3 ,95 bhnk, read 31795 a prize of' 10 dollars th '
1 or ! : ——— f <"
1" To 1") 1 j
Apply to —
rm 7 George Meade.
I* bo has for fale y ' ro| r
Carrie soap A c
Rtd Liiboa Wine near (
A few pi RCS 0 f bin 0 f w ' na for 4
A tew barrels oil rifli meJ's beef ' No
And a few barrels of Uiip bread.
Won 4-
— LL. ..
Imported in the lats arrivals, •£$
.. jnd to be Sold 6-,
JACOB PARKE, Jg
No. 49, North fide'of Philadelphia, ! n ' 1:a
A GENER.IL ASSOkTMSNT OF >
Ironmongery, Cutlery, Sadlery, &c. S
c-or,- —
and* dther Pla "«- Chisels,
A »
A",
r> «- n '»es and Forks; Ridinir Whin* • 70 acre
wty « d B Htr" K C iV, K ; R " or 6 ; «
Hooks; b.rf. C»bi^^u«Tsi re S l B S l 7 s S
Br d as, ; plated and tin'd Bridle B», «.■ ! h . CCt otbtrfr
*41. Nails; Girth -'wo
&c &c. on g <:r y' Cutlery, Sadlery," Brass WaJ«, VZI
l Oifteber 24. I Notes i
mwf6w PhiU
nr the
_ (J fr . GAZETTE OF THE UXtTF.D STATES MARINE LIST.
rnum; ■ ■
PHILADELPHIA, November 16.
fcjlten _ ARRIVED. fays
l.oa m i
Ship Tohn, Caflells, / Borto* 1 >
Brig Lillv, Brown, Porto- Rico 2*
stive. ' wo Sifters, Bowers, Anx Cayes 4 0
:6, as Mary, Lucas, Baltimore j7
Schr. Little John, Kemp, St. Thomas z5
;j, as Lvdia, Jenkins, Butltw ®
n 31, Ranger, Glover, (Jape-Francois 25
Morning Star, Waters, do. 2 2
II 6y t Sloop Molly, Brewfter, Chailefton lS
C 3* The Officers of the Militia of Philadelphia,
\ as citizens, are requeued to attend the funeral of the
enta- ' atc Major Rowland Parry, from his late dwel
and '' n K"' lou k> '» Chcfnut, near Second Ureet, at three
o'clock this afternoon. •
Nov. 16.
an? immigrant Society.
, are An adjourned meeting o the Philadelphia Society fur
the information and atTiltance of persons emigrating from
r foreign countries, v ill be ht%) at the College in Fonrth
' | Street, at 7 o clock thie e'vening.
11 e i 'John Browne, Sec'ry.
| Nov. 16. J J
Jus, I —
Jujl Imported jrom London iff Liverpool,
—— IiARTHKN VVarf, in cratts and hogfheadt, well
afTorted
the Wine Bottles in hampers
Window Glass of *li fi?es 1
Two cases of stationary
One chest of yello\y Jefuiis Bark
' , Two cases of Roll Acnotta
A fm:.ll consignment of Rofc Blankets, Flannels, Bai
zes, Broad cl»ths, Coatings, Plains, &c.
10 Paints of various colors
Balket fait in hogsheads.
A If 0 on hand,
Madeira wine, very old, in pipes, hoglhcads and
quarter calks
Holland gin in pipes, firft quality
Anchors of ditferent liies
i 0 A fen' trunks of ladies French flioes aflorteii
Silk nankeen, &c. ,
10 L'kewife an afiurtment of Dutcji goods, consisting of
Ofnaberj-s, ticklenbergs, bed-tick, stripes, cnecks
Morlaix linen, plattiias, ravens duck, Uritannias, &c*
And for sale by the package only, by
10 Thomas & John Keiland, "
Walniit-ftrref wharf.
Nov- 15. . eodtf
20 * — —
A Delay
~0 In the Drawing of the Canal Lottery,
In Walhington city, has been unavoidably' occahoijed
Uy the unfortfeen intervention of Mr. BJodget's Lottery
—but as the major pait ef the tickets are now disposed
is to inform the public that the drawing gfkhe Ca
nal Lottery Will certainly commence without fail, on the
iirft Monday in January 1797, and those holding tickets
10 aje j lercb y requeiled to fend a ilatement of those fold, and
those on hand. 1
NOTLY YOUNG,
danill Carroll, of .Duddiwton,
GEORGE WALKiR,
THOMA3 LAW,
JAMES BARRY,
W. M. DUNCANSON.
The Printers who gave our advertisements a place in
their liewfpapers, are rcq-aefted to give tilts utftice admif
lion, as the rcma.uing tickets are cxpefted to be soon abov.
par, and we wiSi adventurers to be timely informed
•° { '- N » V "• iH6w.
Walhington Lottery. •
J 0 Tickets, warranted undrawn, may be purchased or
exchanged for prizes, at the Office, No. 147 , Ghcfnut
-10 t ;rect > where a corrtc3 Numerical Book is kept for publie
IQ mipe&ien. Also Canal Lottery Tickets for sale or ex
changed[for prizes di awn in the Walhington Lottery, of
> a rctur,lS apc received.
10 xT * Business of a Broker carried on as uiual.
10 November 10.. J
0- A SHARE in the NBW THiATRE to be fold
on r«afonable terms.
PROPOSALS^
10 By WILLIAM COBBKTT, opposite Cbtid Church, Phi
ladelphia, for publifhmg by fublcription,
ADAMS'S
Defence of the American Conflitutions.
ro CONDITIONS: *
L The work lhall be printed on Engl,lh wove-paper, page;
to fo r page, from the beft,London Edit.on ;of course it
will be comprized in thrfee large odavo volumes.
10 11 Fort ff three volumes, bound in boards, the pricc to
subscribers is to be only four dollars, and to non-fubferi
bers, nve dollars and a half.
111. rke fubfcripeion shall remain open for ;en days, and
, r it an encouraging number of subscribers are obtained in
that time, the publilhcr engages to have the work ready
for delivery m ftc weeks from the present date.
Ijth November, 1796.
N 'i B ' " rets ' cen by the principal bookfel
it lers of Philadidphia aud New York
0 * 'je fu l -leribers to the History of Jacobinism areref-
P , y '"formed, that it will be ready for deliverv
. early next week. y
- Nov - l - 5^
To Lett,
From this day, to the twenty-cighth of April t7cX7
A commodious houfc in SflXitfl Second-ftr e , t No ~ ,
near George Hunters, apo'hecary, well calclated'cither
for .i lodging houfc, a (lore or a ihop.
Nov. 16. va|. v v
— IL_ ,
BARTER. i
For &l f ,ag , 00d ltro "s Msfcfhip, hue
135obarrels, nearly new, well,found
Ca " be P ut ta kl at J f">»« expence
Payment wilt be re.vi.-'•„ in or
India goods, or if more agreeable to i
? months credit would be given on approved
notes, tor further particulars enquire at No. 8 ?!nth
Water-street, or No. , 9 North Third-llreet
November 16. .
FOR 6" A~LTE. : —
A PLANTATION,
A BOUT 12 this City, situate in Ahing.
7O c I ,, " Tr V « P ,' r° ntgOm m ery ColJnt y > containif R
7 acres, a new (tone house, two Jlories high, . rooms o„ i
Hoor hre place, in each, a ttone kitchen and (tone frrin^
hou'e, over on excellent fprihg of water a bjrn flihl
H-ds barrack,, fc. A V££ts
other fruit, about 12 acres of .good meadow well wateied
and wood fufficient for fire,and fencme the place p, tTr-C '
tbC l ft ° f Ap ' i,n " t - Property in this u i,'y
will be taken in exchange, or MORRIS and NiCHOLSO\i
N p e K-| m /iT e "i- En< * uireal No - 37, Arch-Strecu
Philadelphia, September 13, 1796, tl f t l\
James M'Alpin, Taylor,
V> No. 3, South Fotirth Jlreet,
RETURNS his grateful acknowledgments to liis
Friends and the Public for their liberal encouragement, IT]
and begs leave to solicit a continuance of their favori.
He has .on hand an extcnfive afTortment of the
Mojl Fajhionabk GOODS,
And of the best quality, suitable for the fcafen. ■>
At this {hop Gentlemen can be furniflied with the befl 1
materials, and haVe them made up in the neatest and mod anc
Tafhionable manner, and on the Ihortcft notiee—He will
thankfully receive any ordus, and pay a prompt and ]
pun&ual attention to them. clo
November 10. w»tf
Madeira Wine. Co
30 Pipes of the very best quality, and fit for immediate
use, just imported in the schooner J .ucy from Madeira,
and for file by
John Craig, ftai
No. IS, Dock-ftrcet. rt e '
Who has'tor Sale,
-Teneriffe Wine, in pipes, hogiheads, andqr.cafks. pei
Window Glass.-
1 Segars, &c. &c. _ Pe
Two trunks of the befbCotton and Silk ,
Ho fiery. % 0
Oflober 4. mwftf gr. :
io-hogfheads St. Croix Rum,
,5 Pipes Vinegar, *
■Fer Sale, by
Enekiel Hall, \
No. '-so, Penn Strett.
Nov. y. _____ I
* — • 1 - ■ - -- ijsr
_ To be Sold, j?
AT PUBLIC VENDUE. J*
On Thurfdny the 6tb day of April next, at 12 o'clock P u
at Dougherty's tavern, in the toivn of IVinehefler P a
in Virginia, the jolfuiing lands, fUuatc in the /aid „
Jate, viz. j"
No. 1.—43 c Acres, "
Of excellent land on ths waters of Baclc-er«ek> in "
Frederick county, on the great road leading to the " ■
South Branch, itiout ten miles from Winchester, Too "
*crei of whieii is rich bottom, a fine stream running -, '' ;
through it, with fevm'al springs, the trees in the bottom
are chiefly sugar maple, blaclt walnut, hickory and lo- | 1
cuft. There is a log dwelling and out-houfes, lonie (
irvadow made, and 40 acres of upland clearcd. On u
this trael there is a good mill-feat, where an under- u j
might be erected. „
No. 2—Boo Acrei.
Situate in Hamplhire county, 011 the nortlt branch j nt
of the fcjtowmack, and on a branch called Cabbin-run, me
about eight miles from Tort Cumberland. On this f cr
trail is a large quantity of ri-ch bottom, fit for meadow
or the culture of hemp, the upland remarkably good, ctc
being chiefly timbered with walnut and hickory. The it e
above tract is in two surveys of 400 acres each. gr:
No. 3. —200 Acres.
Situate in Franklin county, about ten miles from I
Winchester. On this trail there is a dwelling house
and part of the land is ekared, the remainder ic finely
timbered. ""
No. 4. —A Lot of Ground.
Tn the town of Woodftock, Shanandoah county,
■whereon is eredled a two story house, and other iin-
provements, and a ten acre lot for the conveniency of m(
laid town lot. att
No. 5 — 250 Acres. ' M it.
Situate about two milts from Woodftock. Part of / aT
this trail is in cultivation, is finely timbered, and a good can
quantity of meadow' may be made. ty .
No. 6.— 400 Acres.
Situate in Hamplhire county, on George Ardes's mill
«n,on a branch of the Cafapchon. This trail is finely
timbered, there is good bottom laud, which might be
cafily converted into meadow.
No. 7.—One moiety of 5000 Acrei.
Lying on the waters as Hughes's river, in Harrifon
bounty. This was purchased at one quarter of a dol
lar per acre, cilh above 8 year« ago.
No. 6—41,900 Acres.
Lying in the counties of Wythe, Walhlngton, and
Grayfon (the greater part in Wythe,) on the waters
of Cripple creek and Fox creek, branches of New Rj
ver, and on the south fork of Holftein.
No. g—TO,OOO Acres. _
Lyiugfin the county of Hardy, on the waters of Great
Cacapion and North River.
The terms of payment will be one third part of the
purchase money to be paid in hand at the time of ex
ecuting the deed or deeds of conveyance, the remaining So
two thirds to be paid in equal inilalments, at 12, 18,
Md 14 months thereafter securing those payments by
mortgaging the premises.
Should any person vrilh t© purcbafc at private sale, y o
application may be made to John Holktr, Esq. near
Winchester; David Holmes, Esq. of Winchester; or
%y letters, (postpaid,) to the fubferibet in Philadel
phia, being the owner of said lands, who will perfonil
ly attend the file onrhe 'day abovementioned.
George Meade.
Philadelphia, id of November 1796.
diw w&s 1 MdfA.
STOP THE THIEVES!!!
LAST Wednesday Evening, O&ober 19. between the
loo'eiock, the bed room of Mr Ricketts in
O'JEller's hotel was entered, cither by means of frtfe ke?v
or at the Window, by some villain oir villain*, who mud have
been acquainted with the situation of the house (as the ao'or
was found locked after they bad committed tht theft) who g
took away from amongfl trunks, ONE which con
tained a valuable part of Mr. Ricftett*s property, but of which
ke is not yet aWe to the con tents particularly. Af
ter bringing the said trunk away, and emptying it of up
wards of a thousand dollars in cash and bank, netes, the vil- 5
Jains left it behind the circus, during the time that the per
formances of the evening were gosng Forward* :
It ift earneflly requeued, that all tavern-keepers on the Rage t ,
roads, and the ferry houses, at well as all civil officers, may [
Ve watchful in lecuring fulpicious perfoiii, who may h«ve a 0
redundance of c»rfh, which their appearance wuuid by no
jseans bef-peak them to be pofftfTed c?f. 1
One Hundred Dollars Reward i
"Will be giv«o fat ftrurirtj thr (kW thitvej, md a fur- J .
{her reward for fee firing them with ibe property.
Oft it- A
Twenty Guineas Reward.
RAN AW AY from the l'ubfcriber on the 23d CWlobsr, a
* Dark MULA I'TO BOY, named MOSES ; years
•Id ; about 5 feet B.inche» high ; had on a mixed green a
coat, with a green vsfvet cape and oval yellow buttons • 1
a striped veil 4 a pair of dark ipotted panulo»n», ant}
whole boots much worn. It is probable he may chaagi.
his name and dress. He has been accuilomed t» driving
a carriage!" and waiting. above reward will be
paid for securing him so that the fubferiber may get him '
again, and if brought 'home all resfonable charges paid by '
Robiru Chamberlaitie. '
Eafton, Maryland, Nov. 10. 14 ;
1
m
THIS D.iT IS PUBLISHED,
1 By Benjamin Davies,
A'o. 68, Ibgb-Jlrcet, H'
The American Repoiitory of ufci-ul
information, for 1797-
CONTAINING, *
A "Calendar sot the year _
A complete Kegifter of the Executive, X.egiflative,
and Judic ; ary Officers of the General Government.
A List-os the Military Forces ol the United States. ,
Poft-Office Ettablifliment—times of receivtf^
closing the Mails at Philadelphia.
The post roads and towns, and their distances
Times of holding the Supreme, Circuit apd Diilrict
Courts. cm
A. table of Import duties, alphabetically arranged.
A lift of the cuftnm-houfe officers and their tees.
Rules for seducing the currencies of the leverfcl
slates into one another, and all ot them 'irtto tb£ mo
ney of the United States.
Ul'cful tables of the value of pounds, fludings and jgj
pence, in dollars and cents.
A register of the pjSccriof the civil government of
Pennsylvania.
( A gardiner's calendar forPenniylvapia. •
Aiula great variety of other articles of ufeful informa
fion. Embellished with twelve elegant v.gnettes, an er.-
f raved title-page and frontispiece,—making together, a
andfome, as well as very uleful, little pocket companion.
October 10. aw ' f
Trcafury of the United States.
VT OTICE is hereby given to all persons who are or
may be Creditors of the United States, for 3ny sums
if the finded Debty $r Stock, baring a frejeni intcrrji cf Jtx
t>ir centum per annum.
tft, Tliat pursuant to an Ad of Congrcf* paiTed on the
aßth day of April, 1796, intitled an ait in addition to an
a&, intituled " An a& makinc: further provision for the
of public cr«<lit, and ior the redemption of the p U
public the said <kcht or stock will be reimbarfed and
paid in manner following, to wit. " by dividends j
: " to be made on the lafl days of IVUrch, June and
« ber for the present year, and from the year a f
' " seven hundred and ninety-fevcn,to the year one thou
ft Xatid eight hundred & eighteen iiicluflvc,at the rate of t jj c
u one and one half per centum vpon the original capita!.
u Secondly, by dividrnds to be made oh the tact day of l 0
(t December for the present year,'and frofii the yesr One an<
tl thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year cxc
" one hundred and seventeen inclunve, at p CI
*< the rate of three and one half per centum iipon the ori- f
44 ginal capital; and by a dividend to be ma eon the last mc
" day of December, in the year one thousand eight hun
(< dred and eighteen,of such sum, as will be then a
" qua:e, according to the contract, for the final reAcmj>
" tioji of th said stock." '
ad. All diftin<stfon between payments on account of Mi
InUrcd and Principal being thus aholiihed by the eftablifii- W
ment of the permanent rule of reimbursement abov« de- mc
scribed, it has become neceflary to vary accordingly the j
powers of attorney for receiving dividends; the public
creditors will therefore observe that the form
is eftabiifhed for all powers of attorney which may be p
granted after the due promulgation oi thivijotice, viz.
KNOW ALL MSN BY THZSE FMES£NTS> that w
I Ar
do male, conjlitute and appoint
ps my true and lawful At- 1
hrney,for me, and in my name, to receive th: dividends vfjicb are,
of Jball be payable according to laic y on tbt (her# defcnbilig the
flock) Jtanding in my namein 'the bqoJu of (here I? 1
of the Trcafury or the Commiftoncr of Loans, 0
where the stock is credited) from (here jnfert the com- 1
mencement and expiration of time for which the power of
attorney is to continue) xuitb poiuer also an attorney or attor
nice under him y for that purpefe to make and ahdto Jo ell 11
Uivful *8i requijitefor ifretting the hereby ratifying and
confirming all that my said Attorney or bisfubfituU 1 Jball latuful- r
ly do, by virtue hereof.
In .lYitntfs hereof % I have hereunto set my Hand and Seal tbt
day of in the \ear
Sealed and Delivered
in
BE JT KNOWN, that on the day of
efore meperfonally came QJ
xuitbin named and acknowledged the above letter of attorney to be
bis aSi and dtod.
In tefimony whereof I have hereunto set my Han V< nd ajf*- p
ed Seal the and year lap afcr**aid.
Given under my Hand at Philadelphia, this twen-
tieth day of July 1796, pursuant to directions ~
from the Secretary of the
SAMUEL MLR EDITH,
*1 re afufer of tie United States.
July 11. « tg*' tsj A
By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery. N
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64,
Seuth Suond-Jlreet.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY, . I
for railing Sixty Thousand Dollars, ag<ei ably 1.0 an A& of.;
the Leg flature of Penntylvaaiai p«lfed <hinng itie la(t '. u
feiTion, for building a Stone Budge ov»f the River '°
Schuylkill, at the £urough of Reading, in the County ol J L
Betki. 1 Dollars.
1 Prize of 10 coo Dollars - eo.ooo as
» do. of •o.'fcco do. • - 10,000 P
-3 do. ef 5,000 do. • • « R
4 do. of a,OOO do. - B,ptJo lii
ao do. of 1,000 do. » so,ooo at
39 do. of 500 do. '4 . p
3b do. of *09 do. ... ib,ceo p
soo do. of ico do. ... 2 sco-; p
: 300 do. of' jo do. - iyooo g
1 1 do. of 500 do. to be paid the posses-) ,
, for «f the fiTft drawn no. J ®
e t do. of 3,000 do. to be paid poitefTois f
r of the five lalt drawn oos $ 'i' 003
0 9,400 de. of 15 do. , : I 141,000
b 10,054 Prizes 300,000 [
10,046 Hlanks
30,000 Tickets at Ten Dollars goo,ooo 1'
All Prizes Ifoall be paid fifteen days after the drawing is
finiChed, upon ibe demand of a poffeßot of a fortunate
;e ticket, fubjeft to a dedotlion of twenty per cent. The f
y Drawing will commence as loon as the Tickets are di r ppfcd
a of, or perhaps sooner. of which public notice will b: &iven.
0 Philip Miller, Peter Ktrjlner, William pitman,
Jofepb Hiefler, Jdmes Dirmer, Thomas Dtindas,
James May, John Otto, John Ke'tm, Daniel Gratjf,
Sebastian Miller, COMMISSIONS*;. ,
Reading, May the 9th, 1795.
' — I
Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. t, to be had at the ;
T above office, where the earlisil inlorraation of the draw- ;
r a ing of the Washington N®. », and Patterl'on Lottery's, ]
• n are received, and cheyk books tor eiamiijation and rfgif
,. tering are kept.
id Prober 7. aawtf
A Manufactory FOR SALE.
be a Valuable SOAP and CaNDLE Manofaitory, situate
m in a conveuicßt part of the city 1 the works almott new,
by on an entirely original conftruftion, and buih of the best
materials, and may be let to work immediately. Perfon#
who wiHi to purchase, ate rcouciled to apply at No. 273,
SonthSecond Sweet. September 13. It f tl
JOHN MILLER, Jua. & Co.
No. 3. CHESNUT STREET,
Have Imported in the late vefTets Irom I'-urope, &c.
AND HAVE lOR SALE,
A gaßcrii-akTortraent of GOODS, fultable to th« season .g.
Ainongft which are,
r TJROAD and narrow CLOTHS,
JD Flain and twill'd COATINGS,
Rose ttripcel and point BLANKETS,
FLANNELS and BAISES,
HATS affortsd in -cafe*,
IRISH LINENS,
INDIA GOODS, gsnerally, p *
A Conligned Invoice of IRONMONGERS v
Comprising a capi'al affortmentto«>pcn aftore—inclu*
ding Thirty Caflu of NAILS. This invoice will be fold
entire on very advsntageousTerms;
September 20.
Cetyrated 'Ne-w Work.
Tliis Day is Published,
1 .By JO MA' ORMROD, No. 41, in Chefnut Street,(four
volumes in two, neatly bound and lettered, price a
doUtrs and 50 cents,) ,
THE LOOKER-ON,
A PERIODICAL PAPER. Ai
Bytheßsv. SIMON OLIVE-BRANCH, A. M.
1 Ore teres modico Pallentei radere Mores
Vofluj, et i&genuo citlfam defigere ludo. c<
aul. pers. of
I—My bulinefs in this State tcr
Made me a Looker-on here in Vicir.a ; on
Where I have seen corruption boil and bubble, of
s Till it o'er tun the flew ; laws for all faults ; lin
r But faultsfo countenanc'd, that the flrcng ftatutrs fid
Stand like the forfeits in a barter's fiiop, toi
As much in mock as mark.
■ Mtnfure fir Meafur:. * n
; "It appears from the dedication, that the editor of this *
publicaticm, is the Rev. William Roberts, A. M. I". R. 5.
1 Fellow of Corpus Chrifti College, Oxford; and from the _
5 last lumber, that the labor, and confequeutly the merit of
■ these papers, have rested with the editor, txccnting only
' a'few contributions particularly mentioned, in: editor's
" defrgn hat been, as hehiinfelfreprcfcuts it, "to fuhAitutc sal
r the Jorfakcn topics of morality, life, nature, and taste, in
; the room of Ihallow polities and news-paper philofsphy, and
to betray men, under the mask of amusement, into serious
and manly thoughts. Thisdefign was laudable, and the
execution was meritorious. As literary productions, thd'e p
periodical papers are entitled to dilHnilion ; but their high
est priiife is, that they are throughout calculated to pro
mote virtue and good manners."
Analytical Review.
Lately Publijhed by J. Ormrod,
Condorcet on the progrefsof tha human mind. 7fS,
Mifj Williams' Letters from France, 4/8; |Visit tor a
Week, <_/7 1-2 ; Brown on the natural equality of 1
' men, ; Xife of God in the Soul of Man, 3/9 ; S0!
Allan's Letters to his Son, i-s ; Homer's Iliad
; by Pope, 7/6 ; Haylcy's Triumphs of Temper, with ~
; plates, 7/6 ; M'Ewen on the Types, 5/7 t-2 ; Select 2 ->
P<elms and Hymns for Youth, 1/4 i-z; Burke's ce- 40
lebrated Letter to the Duke of Bedford, t/io 1-2: ,
' Wharton's Answer to Priestly, IJIO 1-2 ; Watson's J
Answer to Paine, 2/9 1-2 ; \jVatf»n's Answer to Gib- ■
bon; ifio M i Cullen's Pra&ice, 2 vols, 30/"; Bay- tr J
ley on the Dock Fever of New-York, 7/6 ; Webfter'3 s ot
' Collection on the Yellow Fever, j/6; Chaptal's Ciie- t0
miftry, 3 vols, in i, 22/5; President's Address, ud; ; n
Poem on do. ;d. 1-2; Britifti, Algcrine and Spanish n .
Treaties, ratified, %fy 1-2; Travels of Cyrus, French
f and Englilh, 2 vpls. Is/"; Win erbotham's History of coi
. China, 2 velt. 15/; Winterbotham's History of Chi- m;
( 11a, 2 vols.- 2275 —flee. &c. foi
1 Nov. - ' eo6t. et!
Fashionable Waistcoating.
GEORGE DOBSON, No. 25, *
SOUTH THIRD-STREET,
Hut received per the Diana, from London*
Clouded and striped Spjnifh Swanfdown
' Clouded Erminats and Molelkins *
Striped do. aad do.
Figured Manillas
Scarlet figursd Erminets
s Printed Florinetts
Do. Cafiihcts and Cafßmeres
Superfine printed Qiiiitings, newest patterns
Also, per different arrivals, ti<
A large and general assortment of Dry
Goods, f'
Suitable to the present and approaching fcafon. w
November?. ritf '
lreaiury Department, fy
September 28, 1796.
NOTICE ishcrehy given,, that proposals will be re- ,
ceived at the office of the Secretary of the Treasury 1
,f; until the cxpieatwn of the fitft day of March next en-
H fuirijj, for the supply of all rations which may he required
:r for the use of the United Statgs, from the firft day of
,f June, 1797. to the thirty-firft day of May, 1798, both
s. days inclufiw, =t the places ard v.-ithin the aiftriSs hire- 1
o after mentioned, viz. At Ofvvego; at Niagara ; at '
o Pjcf<jue ; at Sandulky Lake, stk! on SEndufky t\
o Rivarj at Detroit; at Michilimaekinaj:; at Fort-Frank- a
io lin; at Pittsburgh; at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hamilton; tc
at fort St. Clair; at Fort-JtfTcrfon ; at Grecville; at
>0 Picque Town and Loramies Store ; at Fort Adams; at
0 Fort Wiyur; at Fort Defiance ; at any place below Fort
lo Drfiance on the Miami River to Lake Erie; at Fort
10 Steuben; at FortMaflac ; at any place from Fort MalTic
0. to the south boundary of the United. States on the rivet
Miffifippi; at fort Knox ; at Ouiatanon.
>3 If fuppiies fliall be required for any pods or places ppt
)0 mentioned in this notice, afl such fuppties fliall b« fur
_ nithcd.at prices proportioned to thole to be paid at the
30 P n^s before rented, or as may be hereafter agreed on
_ between the United States and the Contractor.
The rations to be supplied are to consist of the fol
;p lewinj: articles, viz.
1, Ope pound two ounces of bread or flour..
te One pound two ounces .-of beef, or fourteen ounces of
he pork or bacon.
cd Half a gill of rum, brandy or whifeey. „
•1 ■ One r,uart and half a pint of falt.~\ t '
n, Two quarts ef Vinegar, ( , , , .
Two pounds of Soap, (F er hundred d
,rr One pound of Candles, j n
0 ' The rations arc to be furnifhed in such quantities, as that
(here shall at all times during the said term, be fuificient J
for the consumption of the troops at Michilimackinac, De- t
troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, fur the term of fix months in
he advance, and at each of the other polls, for the term of
w- at lenft three months in advance, in good and wholesome
''s, proviGons,iftliefame ikall be required.. It is to be un-
I'fr dcrftood, that the Centra&or isto be at the exjitnee and
rifle of i.Tuirgthe fuppliss to the troops at each post, and
[ that all loffei sustained by the depredations of an enemy, or
by means of the troops of the United States, (hall be paid
for at the price of the articles captured or destroyed, on
ate the dcpoCtions of two or more persons of creditable cha
:w, raSers, and the certificate of a comniiflioncd officer, at
jeft certaining the circumflances of the loss, and the amount
rms of tht ai tides for which eompenfation shall be claimed
?3> OLIVER WOLCOTT,
' Secretary of the Treasury.
s
•- • " '*.«■ . ' '
Wl-1. HotDERNESSE, No. 76,
nfca-s*rx£eT,
His received by the late irrivaU,
,A Well SAccted A s Soktuxut of
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
Haberdashery Goods,
Which he will fell, wholelile and retail, an fhc very
low eft term 1 ;
Amongjl <vjhi(h are
Some elegant 4-4 and 7-8 Chictaes auid Cottons, ntw
pattorns !>
Ditto Furniture ditto
Ditto Dimity
Tamboured, Boek, and Jaconet Muii.as
Ditto in Gold and Silver
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine
Mantuas ef the fir it quality
Silk and Cotton Hosiery
Umbrtlias of the firft quality, afTorted
lrifh Linens, very fine, and Table Linens
Marf'cillts and Cotton Counterpanes
Rose Blankets aflorted—&c. &c.
O&obir 16. d
Loft Last Evening,
At Ricketfs's Amphitheatr-, (supposed to be taken by
fomc villain out of a gentleman's pocket)
A red Morocco-Leather POCKET-BOOK,
Containing about 185 dollars in banknotes; three notee
of hand of Rofs and Simfon, No. 304, 305 and 306, da
ted nth last August, payable 60 dafs after dntr, to tht
order of Paul Siemen, together for 5150 dollars; an ordur
ps Mrs. Ann Vacpherfao, from Paul Siemen, on Lach
lin Mac JJejli Esq. at Port-au-Prince,for 100 dollars; bc
fid«s fcveral letters and papers of no use but to the proprie
tor. 'i he notes of hand and order are without endorft
naent. EIGHTY DOLLARS REWARD is offlrcd to
any person who will difcovtr and secure the thief, and
FORTY DOLLARS for only bringing the above menti
oned notes and papers at No. 119, corner of Front and
Mulberry Greets. d Q&. 11.
~ITATTT¥TrIL
A large quantity of Double-Refined Salt Pctre for
f»k at No. South Third-flreet.
November 5.
Paterfon Lottery.
raifinj fixthoulind Ox hundreu and tWy-ftve*
Jl dollars and fifty cents, by a deduitior. of fifteen per '
centfrom the prizes, and not two blanks to a prizg. viz
I Prize of 5000 dollars is dollars 5000
I 1000 1000
l joo 500
5 ioq icno
20 los acco
99 5° 4W<>
109 *> 1£ JOOO
1000 10 10,000
5 Lift drawn numbers of loco dollars each, 5200 ,
1331 Prizes. 44.450
4018 Blanks.
6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44,45®
By order of the Directors of the Society for rftablifh
ing Ufoful Manufa6bur«, the fuperintiendauts of th« Pat
erfon Lottery have rtqueftcd the Managers to bff er the
foregoing Seheme to the public, and have direSted them
to refund the money to th»fe persons who have purchased
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for ticket*
n this Lottery.
The lottery has ailually commenced drawing, and will
continue untilfinifhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
may be seen at the office ot William Blackburn, No. 64
south Second street, who will give information where tick
ets mayba procured.
Baled ttii« 1/tit Jiij -
y. N : GUMMING,
JACOB R. HAR.DENBERG, £• Managers.
JONATHAN RHEA, >
STATE OF THE WHEEL.
1 Prize of jooo ... jo:o
X 1000 - - - 1000
I 500 ... rco
5 100 • lOC©
la 100 - - loco
93 5° ... 4s oq
165 1$ - - - 4iiS
The five last drawn fiekets, 1000 e-ch, jooo
Being all the valuable prizes, belides a full jfrcpor
tion of the 10 dollan.
As the Lotteryis confider*bly more than 011 c third
drawn, the «alue of the undrawn tickets is great
ly increased, and it is worth the notiw of tfiofe
who hold tickets intheold ftheme, that they can ex
change their tickets for tliote in the above, if they ap
ly soon, and at a moderate advance considering the
now.real value cf an undrawn ticket-.
The tickets being nearly all fold, tbe drawing in
future.will be oftener, and the Lbttery soon: finifhed.'
November 11. , ">w»
Wafhmgton Canal Lottery,
N 0 . ■ I.
the State of Maryland has asthorifed
V V the underwritten* to raise twenty-fix thousand,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
a' Canal through the CHty of Wafhington,-frosi th P®
, tomac to theEaflern Branch Hari-our.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Via I Prize of 20,000 dollars, ' iojdoo f
t ditto 10,000 ic.ooo
Tissssr}"« «*• -
6 dittp 1,000 6,000
10 ditto 400 ' 4>oo»
io ditto 100
55 ditto ja 1,750
sjrjo ditto 11 69,008
1 To be raised for th« Canal, 16,150
5850 Prizas, ny^peo
ii6jo Blanks, not two to » prize. ,
f 11500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - I f;,ooo
0- Tfc Cemmiflioners hav® taken tlie Securities re
qtiircd by the aforefaid adl for the punctual payment ef
the prizes.
, r The drawing as this Lottery w9l commence, without
delay, as soon as thr Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
' Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after th»
t drawing is finifhed, shall be considered as relinquiihed f<V
" the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
» (Signed J NOTLEY YOUNG,
lf DANIEL CARROLL, oft>-
B > LEWIS DEBLOI3,
: GEORGE WALKER,
a , Wm. M. DUNCANS ON,
! THOMAS LAW,
j JAMES BARRY.
n City of Wafhirjfton, Feb. I*. 5
J; PRINTED BY JOHN FENSC,
—No. n 9 -
CHISBS T-S TJIIT.
(Price fight Ds!l»r» per Acuim.)
" c v;