Witt of the Unites States, Philadelphia Dally Advertiser.
Number 1331.]
For Boston, I
Tie brig NEPTUNE, In
James Town, Master,
Lying at Wilcocks's wharf, will fail
with all convenient speed—For freight or passage apply to j
the master on board, or No. 76, Nortk Front Street. w
Dec. 13. pie
For Sale by Public Auction, -
At the Coffee-Houfe, on Saturday the 17th tnjl. at 6
o'cloth, in the evening,
—. The SNOW WILLIAM, N<
jrtmSAMUEL RINKER, Master.
Lying at Bethell aad Coopers j _
wharf—burthen one hundred and
eighty tons, or thereabouts, u sup- |
posed to carry 3000 barrels : She is a llrong good
vessel, and may be sent to sea at a fraall expence, „<
having been completely fitted last voyage. Inven- Ur
tory may be seen, by applying to Captain R' n «- e . r br .
on board, or at the counting house of the lublcn- prj
btr »- 1 . ».
FOOTMAN & Co. Auftioneera.
December; 2. —— ini
For Sale, I
The Ship ADELAIDE, lh
Of Netu Terk.
Lying at the fublcriber's wharf —tur-
J '(PWWM-then 120 tons, (he is a stout well built
5. vessel, was built by the day for a Houfc ~
in Ntw.York,under the irifpcftion of a person c0 "«" led
in her—hasbeen only one voyige to London and Charles- /;
ton and faUs fafter than any veficl out of the port of New-
WILLIAM bell.
Who has received by the said (hip from Charleston— to
10 Tierces fre(h Rice, and a few calks of Ground Nuts, th
Dec. 6. fc- -
C%L. For Sligo and Killibegs,
The American Ship Nancy,
Cuthbert Riggs, master. 0
Will fail with all convenient speed. For
freight or passage apply to
William Bell;
Who has for faie,
4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well alforted
3 Bales Irilh Flannels, and 1 boxes Linens
15 Pipes Brandy
Madeira » Indigo. Rufiia MaWs.
Also,
A few barrels Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK, | a
OATMEAL, &c.
Kovember ir, 1796, mw^tf j J
FOR SALE,
7 HE SHIP MARY'
SAMUEL PARKER, Master,
WlZ&XiSstSikTwo hundred tons burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MARY is not fold in a few days, (he will take
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
OiSlober 31. d
For Charter,
ZTZri The Ship JO HN BULKELT,
Ayres Stockhy, Master.
An excellent live-oak and cedar built I
of about 3000 barrels burthen —Ap- J
Py yej[e & Robert Wain.
Not. - . <1 -
For Sale, or Charter,
The Ship DIANA,
Samuei. Pile, Master,'
205 47*95 '» n « register, huilt in ,
''aJPhiladelphia in the year 1792, of live oak
and red cedar, and was (heathed 13 months ago, fte
has just had a compleat out-fit, and may be fettt to sea
at a very trifling expence.
For terms apply to
Philip Ntckhn & Co.
trho haw for fait on hoard faid.vefel,
ti eifts of fine yellow pamt.
« boxes and 12 bundles of writing slates.
1 box ink stands and note prelles.
H bales of fail canvass.
And on hand,
•gCU? teas.
Nankwn. of t!« fall qaality.
19 tubs Quicksilver.
4 chests Bandanno handkerchiefs.
A few chests Manchester goodswcll a Sorted in Cor
duroys, thicksets, Ginghams, Muflinets, Dnnities,&c.
3 boxes black fewingfilh-
crates Queens ware well alloried.
10 tons (heet lead.
Nails a (flirted, 3at and sharp points.
l.ondon Particular, 0 Madeira Wine in pipes
London Market, f an( j hoglheads.
New-York Market, j
40 pipfs and lohogfteada Teneriffe wine.
8 tierces Snake Root.
130 logs Mahogany. tth&ftf
Nov 7. ___— —
Washington Lottery.
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be-purchafed or
cxchaiigsd for prizes. ?t the Olhoe, No. 147, Chefntit
"reet, whore* corred Numerical Book is kept for public
infneSion Also Canal Lottery Tickets for faie er ex
eh»S for prizes d,aw« in the Washington Lottery, o.
which the 44th and 45th dajs returns are received,
.rt- The Business ot 1 Broker carried on at usual.
• * A SH A.R.E m the NEW THfiAIRE to be fold
OB rVnnahlc terms. December 9. "sti
Inf'uvance Company ot North-America.
THt" STOCKHOLDERS in this company are defircd
to wkeinotlce that the second Tucfday 111 January, (beipg
ithe-ioth dav of the month) is the .Jay fixed J,y charter for
•the election'of twenty-live Director, for the enfumgyear.
will fce held at their ofiice, and commence
at ti <i?k>ck, A. M. „ , . .„ ,
the hyc-l*w» of the Corp©ratwu will be
(fuimitiei to their confederation at this
tBENEZER HAZARJJ, Sec ry
r ' tthioj.
I -ec. ra, '
WEDNESDAT EVENING, DECEMBER 14, 1796.
Just Arrived,
In the ship Difp.atcli, Captain Morton, from Havre
de-Grace, and for faie by A i
Isaac Snowden, jun. No. 141,
SOUTH SECOND STREET, > A
An invoice »f Gloves of various kinds, Men s .
White Silk Mofe, Black and White Laces, and a few _
pieces of Black Silk.
December 2. ffxv* kei
EZEKIEL HALL ]t
HAS REMOVED his Compting-Room to No. t,z, asi
North Water-street, where he has for faie the
Boston Rum, Beef & Mackarel.
December 8. $
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 313, HIGH-STREET. A
GEORGE DAVIS announces to his proteflior.al friends, J:x
and the Gentlemen of the Law, generally, through the _
Union, that bis late importation of {SOOKS is now arrang
ed, and ready for Sale, from a single volume to an entire li
brary, without any advance upon his former exceeding low
prices, which forfeveral years paA have in so diftinguilhed a
manner recommended ihein to notice.
Printed Catalogues combining the moll extensive collec
tion cf the latest Englilb and Irilh Editions eve. imported g!
into this country, are pablilhed, and will be delivered gratis
on application.
Orders addrtffed to G. D. in wiiiing from any diflance
shall be punctually attended to.
A number of TRUNKS far Sale.
ALSO, TO BE LET,
A convenient LOFT, near Market Street Whwt.
Nov. 8. tu&f3«> P"
For Sale,
By 7. WARDER, PARKER & Co.
An Invoice of Cordage,
Confiding of different sizes, from ia inch cables down
to rope of a inches, of different lengths: Imported in
the ship Swift, from Hull, and entitled to drawback.
Sept.
Bank of North America.
THE STOCKHOLDERS arc hereby notified that an |
ele&ion for twelve Directors lor the ensuing year will be
held at the Bank on Monday the 9th of January at ten
o'clock. r,
RICHARD WELLS, Ca£hier.
De*. i. A
For Sale,
By the Subscribers' —In PENN-STRFJ .T, ;g,
6 5 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
Imported by the Eaglei
WILLI NGS & FRANCIS.
Nov. .10 W H.
just Landing,
At Southflrceltuharf, from on hoard dk ship Sedg.
Uy, Captain Hodge, from St. Pe'.erjburg,
The following Goods :
RaSia Sail Duck, firft quality. d
Do. Sheeting <to. r
Do. Diaper.
Do. Huckaback.
Do. Crafli.
Do. Mould Candles, 4, J and 6, to the lb. of the
Knglifh size.
80. White Candle Tallow.
Do- White Soap in small boxes.
Do. Cordage of fin* yarn.
Ravens Duck.
Ifiuglafs, ill and jind fort.
Horfc Hair uncurled.
Ruflta Bit Iron.
Do. Hoop Iron.
Do. Nail Rods. '
10 Tons Oakum and Junk.
St.Petciiburg Clean Heinp. (
For Sale by
Philips, Cramond, & G©.
Prober ra. ' £_
Le Breton,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
" Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Dentist to the
k King ln( J Royal Family of Prance, member of the
e College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris,
a Keeps a complete afTortment of every thing necessary
to be used for the
Preservation of the Mouth and Teeth.
Patent Mineral Teeth, and Human & Ivory Teeth ;
Dentrifice in powder ; Opiate ; exeellent Elixir for
sweetening the month and preserving the teeth—he
also* furnifhes Brushes and foft Sponges.
*„* H« Jives in Chefnut-ftreet, No. 135, above
Fourth-street.
November 26. * ts
Imported in the late arrifils from Europe and the
IVeJI-lnd-.es,
Holland Gin, in pipes
Choice St. Croix Sugar and Rum
Martinique MoUfTus, in hoglheads
Choice old Lifbo/i Wine, in pipes and quarter-casks
' c ' London Particular & London Market Madeira Wine,
in pipes, half-pipes and quarter-calks
Malmsey Madeira Wins, in pipes and quarter-calks
Teneriffe Wine, in pipes
Ruflia & Flemish Sh«eting and Ravens Du<-k, in cases
Window Glass, 3 by 10, in boxes
• 8 Coffee Mills and Straw Knives, in calks
Mill Saws and Cross-cut Saws, in boxes
Also, on hand,
A few chests ef Bohea Tea ; Jesuits Bark ; Aflafcs
tida and Tapioca ; and a few bales of ColTaes,
f Baftas, Gurrahs, Bandanna and Muslin Handker
~ chiefs, and a complete afiortment of 5-4 and 6-4
Boulting Cloths.
nr For Sale by
it- Pragers & Co.
iic Otflober 20 dzwm&thim
:x- , _
For Sale,
>ld By Jehu Hollingfworth, & Co.
■ 15 hhds. Weft-India Rum, 3d and 4th proof,
5 Barrels best Indigo, and,
« A few thousand bushels of Turk's lfland fait.
a ; oa 17. d
'ed .
sos A Manufactory FOR SALE.
ice a Valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufactory, situate
in a convenient part oi the city { the work 6 almost new,
he on an entirely original conftiuftion, and built of the best
materials, and may be set to work immediately. Persons
who will\ to purchase, are requcfted to apply at No. 273,
South Second Street. September 13. t 1 f tt
RAISINS.
A few Casks and Boxes of Excelle»t Freth RAISINS,
jdft received, and for fate by xj
ycfeph Anthony h Ca.
Also a new II 1-2 inch CABLE, 120 fathoms long, qj
December y. $tf g ir
THE PartHerfhip of JONATHAN HARVEY & Co. Di
being this day DiiTolved hy mutual consent, thofeindebt- Di
ed to said firm arc requcfted to make fpcedy payment to Fii
Jonathan Harvey, aho is authorized to receivc the lame, N<
and those who have any demands will please to bring ill
their accoants to him for fertlemcnt
The Business will be Continued
By Jonathan Harvey,
AT HIS STORE NO. 106, 5. FRONT-STREET;
Where lie has for Sale, \V
A general aflortment of Dry Goods, w
November 14, 1796. $'m
Wm. Holdernesse, No. 76, t'
HfGH-STXEET, £
Kas received by the late arrivals, p'
A Well Selected AssoriMtNT of jk
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
Haberdashery Good^s,
I Which he will fell, wholesale and retail, »n the very
loaeft terms ; *'
Amongst ij bicb are - .
Sn.ice elegant 4-4 iud 7-8 Chinties and Cottons, new A
I patterns .
1 Ditto Forniture ditto y'
Ditto Dim-ity
I Tamboured, Book, r»nd Mte&n* M
I Ditto in Gold and Silver
I Ditto Neckcloths, vc:ry fine »
Mantuas of the firft quality
t Silk and Cotton Hosiery
I Umbrellsk, of the firft quality, aflTortcd
lrifli Linens, very fine, and Table Linens
I Marfeille.s a«d Cotton Counterpanes
Rofc Blankets aflbrted—&£. Stc.
| o#ob*r 26. d
I Irilh Linens, &e. ia
j Imported per i/j<? /hips Glafgorjj, from Dubiin, Liber
j tjy frojn Corjk# and bug Mentor, from Beffejl,
4-4 and 7-8 Wide IRISH LINENS,
In wll9.le.ax2d half boxes,
f Assorted from lid. to 4s. fterling—A'rfo 5-4 wide
rSbcetingi, and low priced yarn and worsted Ilofe.
\ On LLind %
j 7-g Wide Lawns.
I Dupers and Table-Cloths
I A few boxesTickcns and-Checks
I A few bale? Flannel*
I Cork and Belfaft Sail Cloth, Nqs. j and 6
25 Boxes r 6 by 8 #
I 10 Ditto > Window Glass, < 7by 9,
I 5 Ditto J C. by 10.
I The above mentioned Goods are all entitled to the
I drawback, at id will be dil posed of by the package on
1 tealwiiaWe terms. v
James, Clibborn & EngliQi, c
I No. 6, N. Front-street. ~
I Toth mo. 19th. • dtf
j — r- - «
Best Boston & Nova-Scotia Mackarel, 11
j Excellent Halifax Saitntin i.i bbls. a
1 47 bbl». prime Coffee, e
I Bed Botton Beef, 1
Codfiih in hde. I i
I Spermaceti Candles,
I Spermaceti, and 7 q j l
I Northern 3
Mould and dipt, tallow candles, of a superior
j quality.
I A few boxes excellent browD soap,
' I 6 Bales of Corks.
. 1 4® Pipes excellent Lifoon Wine.
I A tew facts of Feathers.
I A few bales India Muslins.
, FOR SALE RT
JOSEPH ANTHONY, St Co.
I Ofloberji. d
y Fashionable Waistcoating.
GEORGE DOBSON., No. 25,
r SOUTH THIRD-STREET,
e Has received per the Diana, from London,
I Clouded and ttriped Spanifti Swaofdown
e j Clouded Erminats and Molelkins
I Striped do. and de.
— j Figured Manillas
» j Scarlet figured Erminets
Printed i'iorinetts
I Do. Caflinets and Caßimeres
[ Superfine printed Qniltings, newest patterns
Also, per different arrivals,
~ A large and general aflortment of Dry
e, j Goods,
j Suitable to the present and approaching season.
J Novembar t. dtf
« I Cheap French China.
THE fubferibers finding it impoflible to supply their
I store with any more China from France, the prices
I being too immoderate in the manufactories, gWe no
tice that they will fell at prime cost the remaining
■" I fteclt on hand, confining cf
s » I DefTert Setts,
:r " I Tea-Table Setts
I Separate Cups and Saucers
I Groupes anil Figures
I Alabaster Vases
Looking Glafles, in gilt frames,
Bcfides India Japan'd Toilet Deiks, Chairs, Tables
— I nad Quadrille Boxe.. & Co.
No. 91, South Secohd-ftreet.
| December sth. tts
FOR SALE,
A PLANTATION,
J A BOUT it miles from this City, situate in Abington
I il. Township, MoHtgomery-Oonnty) containing 70
asres,anew stone houfe,two (lories high, % rooms on e
— j floor,fire places in each, a stone kitchtn and Hone lprir.g
I house, over an excellent fprinjj of Water, a barn, stable,
I (hedi, barracks, &c. A large apple orchard, and a variety
late I °tker fruit, aVout 11 acrcs of good meadow wellwatcr
tw I ed.and wood fuffirient for fire, ar.d fencing the place.
I PoffefTion may he had thcift of April next. Property :n
nns I this City will be vakyi in exchange. t*cuar. it No. 37,
73- I -^tcb-Stjeet.
,t I Philadelphia,Ssftember 13,1796. ttftf
For Sale,
By George Defchamps, No. 91,
NORTH srXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels
and half barrels
Ditto Herring and Mackarel.
Smoaked Herring in barrels and kegs
Ditto Salmon, by the dozen or (ingle one
Dry Codfifh, fft>m one to fifty kentals
Fine and coarse Salt
Nova-Scotia and French Plaster of Paris, in the Rone
and ground, for manure and stucco-work
December I. fftf
Imported from London 1$ Liverpool,
EARTHEN WARE, in crates and liogiheads, well
afTorted
Wine Bottles ii» hampers
Window Glass of all fi7es
Two cases sf ftatioiiary
One chest of yellow Jesuits Bark
Two cases of Roll Arnotti
A final! consignment of Rose Blankets, Flannels,
Ba *es, Broad-cloths, Coatings, Plain*, &e.
l'ainta of various colors.
Basket fait i* hogfhcads.
Also on hand,
Madeira wine, very old, in pipes, hoglfccads and
quarter calks
Holland gin in pipes, firft quality
Anchors of different sizes
A few trunks of ladies French fl»oe« afTorted
Silk nankeen, &c.
Likewise an afibrtment of Dutch goods, confuting of
ticklenbergs, bed-ticks, ftfipes, checks.
Moiiaix linen, platillas, ravens duck, Britannias, &Ct
And for sale by the package only by
Thomas £5f John Ketland.
Walnut-street Wharf.
No*. cot^
SALT PETRE.
A. quantity of Double-Refined Salt Pttre for
faie it No. 25, South Third-street.
November 5.
WILLIAM SHEAFF,
No. j6B, HIGH.STREET.
Has for Saie, Wiiolisale and Ritajl,
MADEIRA WINE, of j-ft quality,
Old Sherry, Lifbos, and Port Wines,
Cognac Branny,
Jamaica Spirits,
Wine bitters and
Claret in cases.
Also fcr sale,
A few barrels of excellent Beef.
December 7. <1*
.1 '"J ■ ■ ' ' - '' J -- '■ ' - -'J'HWIJi.
Dancing-
MS.. FRAHCLS of the New-Theatre, in conjunction
with Mr. BYRN, late and jyincipaldan
cer of Coyent-Garden Theatre, now of the New-Theatre
—will open an Academy at Mr. Cellars Hotel, on Tues
day, December 13, where they propose to teacjj. in the
mod new and approved methods, dancing in its various,
ufeful and ornamental branches.
Mr. Bytn's, recent attention tothe dance?of Londoa
and Paris will enable hinj to complete this branch of
education in his scholars in the most liniflied style.
j Favorite Scotch reels will also engage their particular
attention.
For farther particulars enquire of MeHV». Francie
and Byrn, No. 70, north Eighth-Greet.
Private tuition asufual.
November 30' mwlcf
CONSTITUTIONS.
This Day is Publijhed,
And to be Sold by W. WOODHOUSE, No. 6,
South Front-street.
th A
Gonftitutions of the United §tates,
ACCORDING TO
The Lateji Amendments.
To which are annexed,
The Declaration of Independence,
AND
The Federal Constitution,
With the Amendments thereto.
This Edition rontains the late Constitutions of New
Hampshire, Kentucky, and Tenneflee, not ia *ny for.
mer one. - Nov, »6. Jta
TO BE SOLD,
A LEASE fir ftven years, from tie 2stb Mjrch next, in tilt
capital and beautiful FARM % called
ry PROS PE G T-H ILL,
Situated within one quarter of a mile from the Brandy wine
Mills, and half a mile from the borough of Wilmington.
THE dwelling house is built of (tone, two stories high,
genteely finilhed, and contains four hsndfome rooms oij
— a floor, befuies an entry, with capital garrets, and convenient
cellars. It is generally thought to command the mod a
greeable profpeft of the Delaware, from the source of that
C' r ,ivci to the Capes. This profpeft ia greatly embtllifhed ky
:es a full view of a vast body of meadow, through which the
10- Chriltiana and Brandywine creeks are leen winding in beao
ng Ciful meanders. Near the house are a Kitchen, a fpaciou*
stone (table and hay loft, a barn, a carriage houle, mittt*
house, &c. and a well of as pure water as any on the conti
nent. The garden contains an acre and quarter of land, a
bounding with fruit, and particularly with peach trees, of
the very bell kind, brought from Maryland, and in full bear
ing. There is, moreover, on the place, a young, apple
orchard begining to bear, and leveral old trees that produce
abundantly, besides cherry and other ornamental frees, ia
lies great numbers. The farnacOnfifts of near sixty acres of land,,
of good quality, and clear of incumbrances, except taxes,'
twenty of which are now in exoellent clover and timothy,
tts and ten more will be ready for (owing next spring. A re-*
— fider.ee of nearly 8 years has convinced the fubferiber that
(•he fiiuation is remarkably healthy, The great pod road
from Philadelphia to the Southward runs Within teventy
yards of the house. In a word, the beauties and eonveai
'°n ence of this iituation cannot be enumerated in an advertise*
7° ment, arid when examined, will probably command the at
" B ten Lion of any peifon who is deftrous of living at one of the
"■■g mo st elegant country feats on the continent. The pure baser
J 3 ' 5 ' may enter oil the premif.s nest spring, or perhaps, this fall,
' et T if application be immediately made to Dottor NICHOLAS
tcr- WAV in Philadelphia, to Doctor WHARTON, on the
ace. premises, or, in his ablence, to Mr. GEOKGE TRUI'I T, iu
in Wilmington.
37, A qusniicy of excellent Hay, Grain in the ground, some
Stock, &c. may be had by the purcbafer at the nine of sale.
{ Nov. 7
*
\VOLVME X.New Theatre.
On WEDNESDAY EVENING, December 14,
Wilt he prefentrd,
jAn Historical Play, (never performed here) written
by Shakespeare, called
THE FIRST PART OF
HENRY THE IVth;
"Or, The Humours of Sir John Falftaff.
King Henry, Mr. L'EJlrange.
•Prince of Wales, Mr. Mireton.
Prince John of Lancaster, Master Warrell.
"VVorcefter, Mr. Fox,
Northumberland, Mr. Darley.
Hotspur, Mr. Cooper,
Douglas, Mr. Varley, jan.
Sir Richard Vernon, Mr. Warrell, jun.
Weftmoreland, Mr. Warrell.
Sir Walter Blunt, . Mr. Wignell.
Sir John Falftaff, Mr. Warren.
Poins, Mr. Harivood.
Peto, Mr.. Mitchell.
Birdolph, Mr. Morgan.
Francis, Mr. Blijfett.
Carriers, Mefirs. Morris & Francis.
Lady Percy, Mrs. Morris.
Hostess Quickly, Mrs. L'EJlrange.
To which will be added, a FARCE, in » a<sh, called
The Widow's Vow.
Don' Antonio, Mr. Morris.
Marquis, -Mr. Fox.
Carlos, Mr. Darley, jun.
Servant, 1 Master Warrell.
Jerome, Mr. Hartvood.
Countess, Mrs. Morris-
Donna Ifabelll, Mrs. Harvey.
Inis, Miss Oldjield.
Ursula, Do<stor.
Flora, Mrs. Francis.
Box, One Dollar twenty-five cents. Pit one Dollar.
And Gallery, half a dollar.
Tickets to be had at H. & P. Rice's l?ook-ftorc,
No. ye High-street, and it the Office adjoining the
Theatre.
The Boors of the Theatre will open at 5, and the
Curtain rife precisely at 6 o'clock.
Places for the Boxes to be taken at the Office in the J
front of the theatre, from 10 till 2 o'clock, and from I
Jo till 4 on the days of performance.
Ladies and Gentlemen are requested to fend their
servants to keep placts a quarter before 5 o'clock, and
to order them, as fuon arthe company are fsated, to
withdraw, as they cannot on any account be permit
ted to remain.
No money or tickets to be returned, nor any
perfony on any account whatsoever, admitted behind
the scenes.
ViVAT RESPUBLICA! '
1 a, —. —■' 'i.
On Wednesday, the 28th inft.
At 6 o'clock in the evening will be fold at Public-Ven
due, (if not before disposed of at private sale) at
the City-Tavern,
All that capital mansion-house, (tables, out-houfe«, See.
and three contiguous trails efland situate on the Weft-fide
of Schuylkill in the townlhip of Blockley and county of
Philadelphia, generally known by the name of Lanfdown,
containing 199 acres iei perches more or less and a mcflu
ige plantation and trafi of land in Blockley town (hip a
forefaid «djosning Lanfdown, containing 64 acres one
psreh.
Th« premises are so well known as to need no particular
description. Few feats in Amcrica can compare with
Lanfdown for convenience and elegance; it commands a
variety of rich beautiful profpe&s and is remarkably heal
thy. Terms of sale will be made known by
PHILIP NICKLIN, ■> Attornies in
AND C fact to
ROBERT E. GRIFFITH, J JaWes Greenleaf.
Dec. 11. §t2l.
For Safe,
A. capital ftafcd for business— That well known tavern,
the Ewe and Lambs, North Front Street, No. 333, in the
Northern Liberties ; a briek house containing nine fire
places, and ten rooncs well finifbed ; good stables and
chair-house, with a f'rame-houfe 011 Water street the
building stands on four lots, seventeen feet front each, ma
king a front on front-ftreet, thirty-four feet, and nearly
the lame on Water-street, and is one hundred and forty
fe«t deep from street to street, fubje<& to £8. 10s. each
lot per annum, ground rent, this property is near the hay
fcales, and public docks, easy communication with the
Delaware waters and advantageously situated for budnefs
6f various kinds.
The above premises are now rented until December |
aext at £.175 annum.—Enquire of tne Printer.
Dec, 12. §iwjaw6w.
Mrs. Grattan refpedfully informs the fubferibers 1
to the I
Ladies' Concert, i
That the firft will be 011 Thursday the ztnd of 1
December, and Mrs. Grattan takes the liberty of re
questing the fubferibers to fend for their tickets any 1
day after Thursday the 15th, at No- 39, N. Sixth .
street.
Mrs. Grattan begs leave to inform the Ladies and ®
"Gentlemen of the City, that the fubfeription-book is
■St her house, No. 39, North Sixth-street, for the re- '
ception of those names who wish to honor her with <
their commands. A fubfeription for eight nights <
sixteen dollars, including a Gentleman and Lady's ,
ticket, both transferable. Half/ fubferiptions eight '
dollars, including one ticket. Single ticket twp dol
lars.
December 7. • fI IW
Hibernian Society.
A dated meeting of the Hibernian Society, will be held
at Mr. M'Shane's Tavern, fhird-ftreet, on Saturday the
17th inft. at 7 o'clock in the evening.
Supper will be on the tabic at half after nine.
Dec. 11. MATHEW CAREY, flee'ry. v
— * L__ f
Notice. t
HAVING Proposals to communicat-, of great import- f
ance, both to those to whom I am indebted, and to
tnyfelf, I request the lav«r of all persons who have de- e
mands against me, to meet at the City-Tavern on Friday 0
next, at 6 d'cloek in the evening. .
JAMES GREENLEAF. .
Philadelphia, December 11796. «tth
—— — — i y
Old London particular Madeira Wine, v
Landing from on board the barque Eagle, Capt. Bates I
and for sale by ROBERT ANDREWS, I
No. 86, S&uth Wharves. r
November 19. codtf
To be Rented, '
A Large Vault and Cellar,
That will contain 200 pipes, situate in Walnut
between Fourth and Fifth-flrects. Also a COACH
HOUSE and STABLE, with Stalls for five horses. d
N. B. Goods Stored by the month. p
November 30. mvr f, 4 b
DUBLIN, September 29.
Sunday fe'nnight, as Mrs. Mend, wife of Mr.
Thomas Mead, of Drumcondra, near Ardee, was
walking in the garden, accompanied by her filler,
Miss Bafhfort, their attacked in a tnofr furious man
ner, by a mad dog. The animal firfl leaped on
Mrs. Mead's back, without doing any other injury.
He afterwards ran at her filler, and bit ene of her
}. arms and legs in a mod (hocking manner, and with
drew. The doji, after going a (hort diftatiae, re
turned, as if not contented with what he had done,
leaped on her, and entirely tore the nose from her
face. She has continued in a mod deplorable
(late. The animal afterwards bit eleven people in
the town, and a number of pigs, dogs, Set. He
was purfaed by a party of the Dublin militia, who
overtook and (hot him, about a trvjfc from the town.
OeVsber 1.
It is remarkable, that though veflels from the
W eft-Indies, an J bound to the fafne quarter of thf
globe, have been for some time in the river, tudoad
irg their carries of &c. they have not ta
:s. ktn on boarc ar.y beef or butter, unless for fea
llores, tho' last year, before this time, there were
large export citrus of provision for Jamaica and
the Leeward iflsnds. The chief reason afiigned is,
that such articles can he «t: twined at cheape^rates
in the psrisofthe United States of America, than
in those of this country, afpecially beef, which,
from circumstances, we hope, mull very faon fall
in price.
• NEW YORK, December 12.
Citizens or New York, you have been witnefTes
to a terrible catastrophe, ic-the sudden dellru&ion
of a rich fqusre in the center of the city, by the
devouring element of fire. To (ay thai all gener
ous hearts mod sincerely sympathise with the fiifftr
r" ers, is not duicg judices to their feelings. This
t>road wajle buildings, filled with wealth, the
e truits of industry, and the means of fubfillence for
a numerous body of good citizens, is an oecafion
e | that deeply afflifls the human mind. Are there
I any families reduced to distress ? the charitable hand
e ! of benevolence will doubtless. afford succour, and
1 every generous effort be made to replace the means
r of a&ive indudry. »
j But while you are fpe&ators of the yet smoking
■j ruins of property, and while your liberality is ex
- erted to r#lieve the distressed, do not foiget to profit
by this melancholy event : turn your thoughts to
J the means of guarding against a similar calamity ;
misfartunf'into utility. A pestilence
annually affli&ing some part of the city, fweepiiig
. away valuable men, and checking that bufintfs
which is the fuppoit of its inhabitants ; together
_ with frequent conflagrations, which prostrate the
t fortunes, alarm the families, and diflurb the happi
ness of the citizens—These are calamities that de
. 'raft immensely from the enjoyments of life, and
: retard, beyond conception, the growth and opu
s lence of this commercial city.
• It becomes you to take into serious consideration,
" what means, and whether any can be devised, to
, prevent the frequent repetitions of such dillrefling
events. Thcfe are not fubjefts to be passed over
• with flight refledion, or trifling efforts to provide
J against the return of disasters. They are fibjedls
' that involve the chara&er of the tity, the feeurity
ef property, the faiety of life, and the prelei ra
tion of that tranquility of mind, without which
life is hardly a blriSng.
Will not the government interfere to reltrain the'
avarice of individuals from thus exposing life and
property to the perpetual depredations of disease
aid the flames ? Is there no Jpirit in the citizens, •
who are the vi&inas of these difallers ? Is there no
wisdom, firmnefs and juflice in the fuperiatendinjf
adminiilration of the city, to controul the felfifh
passions, and bend thsm to th« regulations necessa
ry for the public fafcty ? Is the difference in the 1
expence of wooden walls and brick ones, an object '
of such magnitude, that the properties and lives of '
citizens mult be momently expoled, and frequently
facrificed to it ? Are a few feet of earth, on an isl
and that presents near twenty miles of good har- '
scour, so immeufely precious to an individual, that '
even a gangway cannot be spared for a fire engine, 1
to extinguish flames that threaten a whole ci- J
ty\ with dettrudion ? Must every inch of ground
be occupied by the penny-wife landholder, to the '
exclusion of light and of free air, the principle of *
man, without which he mujl sicken and die ? i
, P*rdon, fellow-citizens, these ardent expoftula- 1
tions, in a man who has less interest in the welfare
of the city than mod of you ; but whofc feelings c
are alive to the fatal policy, which has laid the F
foundations of iucalcnlable evils in every part of 1
this flourifhing metropolis., A city, now an emiryo '
of one of the larged mercantile towns on earth, c
every stone and brick of which (honld be laid for 1
perpetuity, is modly built of (light materials, and r
exposed hourly to be laid in one vail mafsof ruins!
[Hfinerva.~\
ASTONISHING IMPUDENCE. 1
[from THE ARCUS.] c
COMMUNICATION. «
If any additional proof of the hostility of our
government to the I'rcnch nation was wanting, it c
would be found in the Prejidenl's Speech. Tho* (1
since the l?ft meeting of congress, and the solemn f
ratification of the treaty, fifty vessels have been ta
ken from us by the Britilh, where owe has been tan
Len by the trench ; tho' our seamen have been t
enslaved, fettered, and exposed to contagious dif- I
orders and the sword 5 though even the maders of t
our (hips hive been ignominioufly whipped by Bri- f
tifli officers, not one word is mentioned on this sub- n
jeil in the President's address. All memory "of h
what is due to the character of our government and si
Britain," all " felf re/ftS" seems to be loft where o
Britain is in quedion ; thns we arc content to rely I
solely "on the judice and magnanimity of the Bri- ti
tifli monarch from them even common judice is
to be purchased by unworthy humiliation, and the tl
Sacrifice of «ur dearest interest. It is with their fe
conquerors only, with the French people, that we it
daie to talk of our dignity. What alas 1 Will our w
dignity avail, when put in the fcaie again ft their 6\
power? Ihe true dignity of government would c<
batrt been to have given no of offence j p
S to have construed our treaties fairly and impartial
ly ; to have filled'the delicate office of secretary of
r. (tale with foine man who underftaod the law of na
as tions, thefor«P6 of politeness, and who would not
r, have fubllituted arrogance for dignity, and unfoun
n- ded pretentions for fellrefped.
in —
ir. Notes in the foregoing.
;r Tifty to one ! Where are the proofs i The Bri
*- tiffi have not probably taken that number of veflels
f - from the Americans since the tieaty, nor condern-
e > ned one fifih of the number, containing real Atne
:r rican property. There are now lying in one French
' e port in the Well-Indie9, more American vefTels than
11 the British have condemned in two years—the car
'e goes seized by the administration—the vessels rot
° of them abandoned—the seamen dying,
>• or enduring every fpeoies of want and distress.
The mention of Capt. Jefiup's cafe, at this mo
ie ment, is uncandid ; when we have just received ad
'? vice that on the representation of Mr. Lifton, the
' British ministry intend to make an example of Capt.
Pigot.
l " The Prcfident's speech a proof of the hejlility of
e our government to the French Nation J ! ! Know,
d reptile, that a refpedt for the laws alone will save
! > you from the prompt vengeance of an insulted
8 people.
n
CONGRESS or the UNITED STATES.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
g Tuesday, December 13.
Mr. W. Smith, from the committee to whom
referred the petitions of Thomas Lloyd, and
1 itomas Carpenter, stenographers, reported a re
* solution to the following effect, which was referred
to a committee 6f the whole lioufe'o-morrow.
* " Resolved, that the clerk of this house e*ufe
the membsrs to be furnifhed during the present
session with copies of the debates of Corigrefs,
j printed in this city, such as the members fhail chufe
j to be delivered at their lodgings, provided no high
s er price be charged for them thaD is charged to
the citizens of Philadelphia."
The bill for providing for the more effctfual pro
' mulgation of the laws of the United States, was
refcd a third time and pafTed.
Mr. W. Smith called for the order of the day
00 the answer to the Pfaident's speech.
' Mr. Giles hoped the geutleman would permit
this ftibjeft to lie over till to-morrow. The an
■ fwer contained a variety of important matter, and
he had scarcely had time to read it over.
Mr. Parker spoke to the fame effect.
Mr. W. Smith said it was unusual for the an
swer to the Prcfident's address to lie over more than
one day. He thought the fubjefts contained in it
were such as did not require much cor fideration.
Mr. Heath hoped the business would not lie e
ver. The fcfiior, he fqid, was short, and as no
thing would be done untihbe etiquette of the ad
dress was gone tnroogh, he thought no time should
be lott.
Mr. Ames had no objeflion toother business be
ing taken up before the fubjeft in queflion, in or
der to give gentlemen time to think upon it, but
he hoped they ftiould not rife without entering upon i
its confident ion.
Mr. Giles did not thjnk the object of his col
league (Mr. Heath) would be atifwered by pref- J
sing the fubjeft upon the house before gentlemen
were prepared to meet it. If ever there were a fub
jeft, he said, which required mature consideration 1
it was the present, which embraced time present, '
past and to comc. He wi(hed not unnecefi'arily to
protrafi business j but he saw in this anfwtr to the
address many things obje&ionable ; and he wished '
time to think on the fubjeft, and to prepaie fubfti a
tutes for them. He hoped therefore the business
would lie over till to-morrow. t
Mr. Sitgreaves hoped no delay would take place.
He recollected that on a former occasion when 3 1
meflagc was received from the Prefldent refpefting f
the colours of the French Republic, although k
veral members wilhed the fubjeft to lie over till next i
day, those very gentlemen who now called for de- r
lay, then declared, that to postpone the business, £
would be to lose the effect. He was of opinion 1;
that there was full as much refpeft due to the Pre- t
fident on this occasion, as was due to the French
Republic at the time alluded to. n
Mr. W. Lyman said that gentlemen seemed to
confidcr the answer to the Prcfident's Speech as
: merely a complimentary thing ; but he considered t;
|itas of quite a different nature. The President be. t
ing charged with the execution of the laws, made tl
communications to them on the fubjeft from time h
to time. The present communication introduced c
new matters to their notice, and were not gentle- ti
men to make up their minds «pon them ? The an- tl
fwer to be returned would fliew how far the house t1
eoncurred in the proposed proied*. It was not a t<
thing, therefore, that could be tranfaiaed in a mo- c
ment. And shall gentlemen be refufed a day to f<
coofider these important matters > He hoped not
The Speaker informed the House, that the firft
question would be whether the unfioifhed bnfinefs F
should be puftponed, in order to take up the an- t<
fwer to the President's speech.
Mr. Parker hoped the unfinished bnfinefs would G
not be postponed. He was not ready ro vote upon b,
the important matters contained in the address. n;
He was of opinion they (hoald *be very careful at rc
this critical juncture how they committed them
es. The President had informed them they did ui
not (land well with the French nation ; the Senate la
had already accorded with all he, had said on that
fubjeft (Mr. Parker was reminded it was not in R
order to introduce what the Seriate had done), cc
He hoped a day would be allowed for confidera- ac
tion. f
Mr. Williams said there was no precedent on th
their journals to c ountenance a delay on the pre. of
sent occasion. When a report was made, he said
it was usual to commit it to a committee of the ry
whole House ; and, if there were any different be
Opinions on the fubjeft, the answer was either re
committed or amended, and he trusted thit 00 new or
precedent would sow be made.
a!- The Speaker reminded 4he House that the quef
of lion was on poftpotfiing (he unfinifhed bufineia.
a- Mr. W ; Smith observed that it had always been
ot customary to take up the answer to the Prclideiit's
n- speech the day after it was reported, and fometimcs
on the very day. If they were bow to deviate
from this practice, he said it ffaould be for good
reasons. The fit ft reason which had been offered
r j. for a postponement was that gentlemen were not
e ] s fufficiently acquainted with the answer, and yet
T). they had proceeded to comment upon it. It would
l€ _ be found, he said, that the committee had dealt
E h only in general terms, which could not be difap
an proved. There were ouly two objects upon which
lr „ there could be a difference of opinion, viz. what
related to the Trench republic, and what was com.
g ( plimentary to the Prelident: the firft was exprcfTed
in generals, and he trusted the House needed not
0 . to wait till to-morrow, to consider upon the ex
j. prcffionß to be used towards the latter (the Speak
lc er again reminded the House of the question).
Mr. Smith said his intention was to (hew that a de
lay on the present oceafion would have an unplea
ey fant appearance. The buGnefs on a former ocea-
V) fion relative to the colours of the Frenoh republic
, e (as had already been noticed) was hurried through
;( j the House, left a failure of refpedl should appear.
He wished every refpeft now to be Ihcwn, and
_ could fee no reason for delay.- In relation u> the
unfinifhed business, it had yesterday been postpon
ed far want of information, and he did not suppose
that information had been yet obtained. He hoped,
therefore, when the chief thing in the address was
to compliment the President for his set vices, they
ihould shew their zeal by an unanimous and ready
vote.
" Mr. Nicholas thought it was not right in gen
tlemen to press the business in question upon
' the House before it had been duly considered. Nor
did he think it would be so refpeCtful to the Presi
dent, to precipitate the question, as by doing so,
e objcdlions might be brought forward, for want of
1 duly understanding the fllbjedt, which, perhaps,
'' by affording a little time, might be done away.
e For his own part, he owned lie scarcely knew the
the tnraning of the answer. The futjeft required
a confideratiori, and he thought, as to the refpeif*
which gentlemen seemed to have most in view, it
would not be lefTen»d by the delay. As to prece
' dents, he was surprised to hear them mentioned.
Were the Prelident's addreffcs always the fame
f thing i No ; they' always took a review of pad
and present ; and to talk of preaedents where cases
1 could never b* alike, were to trammel the House
in an extraordinary manner. The cafe of the Pre
fldent's message refpe&ing the French colours had
been mentioned If the House had then adled
wrong, was that any rule they should continue ta
do so ? But the two cases were wholly dissimilar.
1 The one was merely an expreflion of feutiment
' which could at once be determii*ed ; but the pre
' sent question was so much interwoven with the po- ,
litics of this country, as to require great circum
fpedtion. He hoped, therefore, tbe House would
• not be now pressed into the business. He Wished
as much as othfer gentlemen for an unanimous vote
on the ftibjed, and to make the departure of the
' Prelident from office as agreeable as he could with.
The question for postponing the unfinifhed bufi.
ness being put, it was negatived 43 to 31.
Mr. Stradwick fro™ North-Carolina (in place
of Absalom Tatem resigned) appeared and took
his oath and feat.
On a motion being made to go into the order of
the day 011 the report of the committee of claims
on the,petition of Henry Kill,
Mr. D. Foster hoped the business would be fur
ther portponed, as he had not been able to procure
the neeeffary information on the futjedt. 'It was
agreed to be pollponed.
Mr. W. Smith renewed his motion to take up
the answer of Hie Prefident't; speech.
Mr Macon objedtcd to the motion as not being
in order ; as it was an endeavour to accomplish the
fame objeftby tw« different ways.
The speaker declaied the motion to be perfectly
in order, as gentlemen might have voted on the for
mer question, from a wish to proceed with the unU
finifhed business. He added that it would be equal
ly in order to move to postpone the present buliuefs
to a day certain.
Mr. Nicholas'accordingly moved that this busi
ness should be postponed till to-morrow.
Mr. Coit hoped it would be postponed.
The committee was appointed last Thursday to
take the President's address into consideration, and
they had not reported till yesterday. He found
the answer reported 011 his desk this morning, but
he had not yet read it ; and though he had so much
confidence in the gentlemen upon the committee, a»
to be ready now to vote on the business, yet if o
ther gentlemen were not fatisfied, upon a fuhjeft of
this importance, he thought it wrong to press them
to a hasty vote. The geptlemen fay it is a thing ot
course ; but others think not. He trusted, there
fore, the motion would be carried.
1 he motioa was put and carried.
Mr. Thatcher prefeated a petition from Constant
Freeman, a Canadian refugee, which was referred
to the committee on thatfubjedi.
Mr. Madison presented a petition from Peter,
Gree, a soldier in the late war. He was Hated to
be very old, infirm and indigent, and that he peifo
nally attended with his petition for telief. It was
referred to thi committee of claims.
Mr. Gilman, from the committee of revifal and
unfinifhed business, reported the nearly expiring
laws.
Mr. Cooper presented the petitions of John .
Roth and Catliff Mefther ; the former for a re
eonfideration of hie cafe, repeating fume unsettled
accounts, rejedVed by the committee of claims last
fefiion ; the latter, for compensation forfervices in
the last war. Both were referred to the committee
of claims. .
Mr. Sherborne moved that the petittorf of Hen
ry Titcombe, refened to the cemoiittee of claims,
be referr«d to a committee of the ivliqle house.,
The motion was agreed to, and jt wastnadsth?
order of the day for Monday.
Adjourned.Philadelphia,
. »
WEDNESDAY EVENfNG, DECEMBER 14, 1796.
ELECTION RETURNS.
Return or For&s ST
rOR S §> <1 •§
PRESIDENT I I T a
AND § £ p k J
VICE-PRESIDENT,. / «
New-Hampfliire,
Maflachufstts,
Rhode- (flaud,
Connecticut, 9 4 5
Vermont,
New-York, 12 I*
New Jersey, 7 7
Pennsylvania, 1 >'14 ij
Delaware, 3 3
Maryland, 7 4 4 3 1
Virginia,
Kentucky,
T?nneffee,
North-Carolina,
South-Carolina,
Georgia,
Total,
*„* The piece Cgned " Candor" in our next.
The publication of tha Paraphrase on a paflag* in
Shakespeare, would not promote any valuable end ; and
the original poetry subjoined, tho* it potTelTes considera
ble merit, is too incorre'S for publication.
Yesterday Elijah Paine and Isaac Tiehener, esquires,
Senators m Congress from the ftat« of Vermont, pur
ftiant to a resolution of the Council and General iffem
bly of Vermont, presented to the President of the' Un
ited States the following ADDRESS, palled by the
unanimous voice of both Branche. of the Legillature
of Vermont, OClober 25th, 1796.
An address from the Legislature of the Jlate of Ver
mont, to thi President of the United States.
SIK,
FROM the unrecognized situation of this Jlate, the
legillature had not an opportunity in common with
her filter states, to anticipate', by an address, the blef
fingsthat were expected from your administration.
Permit us, now, with fiuccre fatisfaCtion, to allure
you, that the event ha* juftified the mod sanguine
hopes of the legislature of Vermont, and theii' conftitu
•jfits
When we contrail the gloomy aspeCt, both of our
domestic and foreign affairs, a few years since with
the flattering prospeCt now before us, we at once ap
preciate the advantages which immediately refulffrom
our general government, and the justice, magnanimily
and mode ation, which has marked your administra
tion Convinced of our true mtereft, you have fuc
< efi,ful!y oppoftd faction, and maintained that neutral
ity, so ueceffary to our national honour and peace —
Accept, fir. the only acknowledgment in our power to
make,or in yours to receive, the gratitude of a tree peo
ple. Ardently as we wilh your continuance in pub
lic office, yet, when we relied on the year< of anxiety
you have lpent in your country's fervire, we mull re
luctantly acquiesce in your wishes, and consent that
you Ihould piss the evening of your days, in reviewing
a well spent life, and looking forward to fctnes beyond
the grave, where our prayers (hall ascend, for a com
plete reward, for all your fe.ricts in a happy immortal
ity-
We receive your address to your fellow citizens, as
exprefiive of the highest zeal for their prosperity, arid
containing the bell advice ta enfurc its continuance.
We cannot, fir, close this address ( probably the last
public communication we may have occasion to make
to you) without alluring you of our affeClion and ref
peCt —may the (hade of private life, be as grateful to
you as the l'plendour of your public life, has been ufeful
to your country ! we (hall recolleCt you with filial af
fection your advice as an eltimablelegacy; and (hall
pride ourselves, in teaching our children the impor
tance of that advice, and a humble imitation of your
example.
To whick the Prelident returned the following An
swer.
To Elijah Paine and Isaac Tichenor, esquires, Senators
in Congress from the Hate of Vermont.
Gfntlemen,
WITH particular pleasure I receive the unanimous
address of the council aid genei-ai assembly of the (late
of Vermont. Although but lately admitted into the
union, yet the importance of your state, its love of lib
erty, "nd its energy, were manifefted in the earliest pe
riods of the revolution which eftablilhed our indepen
dence. Unconnected in name only, but in reality uni
ted with the confederated dates, thele felt and ac
knowledged the benefits of your co-operation. Their
.mutual lafety and advantage duly appreciated, will
never permit the union to be difiolved.
I enjoy great happiness in the tellimony you have
presented, and in the other proofs exhibited from vari
ous parts of our country, that the operations of the
general government have juftified "the hopes of our
citizens at its formation, which is recognized as the
ara of national prosperity. The voluntary acknowl
edgements of my fellow-citizens persuade me to be
lieve that my agency has contributed to produce this
tffeCt. This belief will be to me a source of perma
nent fatisfaClion, and those acknowledgments a rich
reward.
My sincere thanks are due, and I beg you gentle
men to make them acceptable to the council and gene
ral assembly of the slate of Vermont, for the very
obliging and affectionate terms in which they notice
nte and my public Services. To such confidcnce and
support, as I have experienced from councils, legifla
tivc affcrablies, ic the great body of American citizens,
,T,pwed the best exertions of every faculty I possessed :
happy now in the reflection, that our joinr labours have
been crowned with success When withdrawn to the
(hade of private life, I (hit! view with growing pleasure,
the increafirg prosperity of the United States: in the
perfect protection of their government, I trust to enjoy
my retirement in tranquility ; and then while indulg
ing a favorite »i(h of my heart in agricultural pursuits,
I may hope to make even my private business and
amufemtnt of forae use to my country.
Go. WASHINGTON.
United States, ?
J Ith Dec. 1796. 5
COMMUNICATIONS.
"Some persons pronounce it base and servile to speak
flronjtly of the virtues and services of the President
a# .even 'irs rcvilers think is true —for few of those
vho speak against hirn believe their own calumnies.
Yet these men <*Ji« itrair. at a gnat, actually fwallow
er' a camel in the cafe of Genet. Dinners, songs
ar.d addrtffes-—fealting on roasted and raw oxen
flags, cannon, and aTT the fooleries of liberty-caps on
Aim poles and thick heads, could scarcely iatisfy
French idol-worlhippers.
J n like manner, the praise of our free constitution,
and its prosperous administration, offend those pa
triots, (what a name for such men!) who quarrel
with you if you compare any thing with French
libarty, or ftippofe any place out of Paradise so happy
as France. These men would be curled if they Ihould
enjoy for only fix months the glorious privileges they
so much prefer to their own. They want a little of
the felf-refpeCt spoken of by the President.
GLEANINGS,
From the Critical Review.
Flowers of Englifli Rhetoric, applied to the Age
of Reason, by Gilbert Wakefield j tending to
exhibit the prefeiit liberal mode of treating an
adversary.
Mr. Wakefield in his reply to Th 'mas. Paine's
fecopd part of the Age of Reason, introduces the
following curious charaCter of Mr. in th<;
course of hie reply—that he is a compound of va
mty and ignorance, a (illy blockhead, a head strong
sciolist, who has neither learning enough to know
when he is confuted, nor ingenuous candor to ac-'
knowledge the contutation—a puzzle pated fellow
—a swaggering polemic—an illiterate mountebank,
acquainted with no language but his own—a noily
coxcomb—a bullying champion—a vain glorious
and empty bluftercr—,an infuriate polemic—the pi
tiable viCtim of conceit and ignorance, who fumes
and foams in an idle corobit with.the phantoms of
his ow,n disordered imagination—the most impene
trably stupid and Fi>tile braggadocio, that evar vio
lated the facrci feeling of fe!f-veneration, ami every
principle of literary integrity, in undertaking with
out candor, without modesty, and without know
ledgc, to canva(« that multifarious and comprehen
sive topic, the evidences -of revelation—and in the
bitterness of his wrath, Mr. Wakefield ex laims—
" Nincompoop (for insulting truth and violated
" honor, demand thy true appellation with a vche
" mence liordering on reproa h) if thou fin.left
" any of thy vifionarv audacities unnoticed in fu
" turc. modestly suppose tUe genuine reason to re
" fide in their futility and nothingiiefs."
Mr. Fknno,
I observe in your paper of this day my name in
the lilt of those clergymen who were voted for to
serve as chaplains in Congress. As it may, in con
sequence, be supposed that 1 had applied for a re
inrtatement in that service after'having declined it
fame years since, and that accordingly, in
nominatiou; you will oblige me by inserting in
your next, that no application to tha: purpose had
been made by me, orhy any other person, with my
knowledge, in my b»half; that the fame reaf us
hold good against my returning to that ferviee at
this time, which prevailed with me to decline it as
aforementioned ; and that, had I been chosen by
a majority of the House, 1 fhonld have been under
the disagreeable neeeffity of repeatihg to them my
desire of being excused.
SAMUEL BLAIR.
December 13th, 1796. - * '
N. B One motive for desiring this publication
is, to obviate a report, which had been by some
persons officioufly circulated, that my not having
been re elected at the time above referred to, was
owing, not to my desire, but the difapprobatiou
of Congress
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STAT ES.
To the public auJ private Stockholders of the Bank
of Pennsylvania.
No. 1.
AN event hitherto unknown, I believe, in the
annals of banks, hath, within five days, divulged
itfelf of a molt alarming nature in this city ; but
to calculate on the tremendous evils, that it threat
ened, is impoflible. Consolation, hswever, is de
rived from its recent discovery; because, had it
proceeded another three years—the immensity of
your lofles, would have been in the ratio of his
mighty peculations. And who can fay to what'an
enormousfum, the and flexible disposition
of your late president, would have exunded itfelf?
For, if in this small space of time, he could in
gulph, in wonderful fthemes and contrivances, so
much as to leave a balance against him of one hun
dred and eleven thousand dollars ; what would not
his fertile geuius, and the ready accommodation of
his needy friends, have demanded of him, while he
held the uncontrouled purse ftringi of the great
bank of Pennsylvania ? May I not cry out, O,
fortunate public and private flockholders of this
bank ! ye have cfcaped Scylla, by a happy poflef
fion of nearly all your president's property through
a late, though " a hair breadth" investigation !
It is, gentlemen, to gua;d your vessel from run- 1
ning on the rocks of Charybdii, that hath brought
me forth on '.his lamentable occasion- And as this
anxiety for the general welfare is my only prepon
derance, so (hall it urge me, in some future papers,
tufpread my knowledge, and my advice, on the
proceedings in that bank, devoid of fear or favor.
It may be neceflary, however, to inform you that,
neither party zeal nor enmity to any individual di
rector, cause my animadverfions; —for I have met
with no unwelcome denials, or refufals tTom them
in a collective sense—and for several of them, I am
in the habits of intimacy and friendfhip; but para
mount to all other considerations, my attachment
to my native country, is abhorrent to all peculators
—and therefore my future communications lhall
be striCtly candid, in doing justice—-where it can be
found. PUBLIC GOOD.
Philadelphia, Dec. 14, 1796.
For the Caxitte or tie Unites States.
Mr. THOMAS PAINE's letter to the Pre
fident having accidentally . fallen into my hands, 1
was equally surprized at the composition of inso
lence and ignorance, of which it is made lip ; and
I could not but smile when I reflected, that this in
left was striving to (lain a charaCter, which, at the
very moment of his appearance, the legislatures of
every slate in the union, are vying with each other
to emblazon. It is possible, that his malignity may
have been provoked upon a comparison of the jus
tice the people of the United States have done him
too. in the resolutions of con grefs, which are sub
joined. At the time of palling tl.em, Mr. Jaybe
ing President of Congress, it became his duty to
speak in proper terms of the criminality of this
pretended Apostle of Liberty, in answer to the
French minister's complaint against him ; and hence
it is, I suppose, that " this John had always been
the sycophant of every thing in power from Girard
in Ameiica to Grenville iu England."—These are
the refolutioHS.
" Saturday, January 16th, 1779."
" Congress took into consideration the letters
from Thomas Paine—whereupon a motion was
made,"
" That Mr. Thomas Paine, fecretaty to the
committee of foreign affairs, be dismissed from of
fice."
"To which an amendment was offered as a sub
stitute, in the follow! g words,"
" Thit Thomas Paine be directed to attend at
the bar of this house on Monday next, at eleven
o'clock, to aufwer whether he had any direction or
pcrmiffion from the committee of foreign affairs,
for the,publications of which he confeffed himfilf
to he the author, when he was before the house on
the 6th of January last.
" Another amendment was moved as a fubfti.
tutr to both the foregoing propositions, in the
woids following.
" Whereas Congress were about to proceed
againll Thomas Paine, secretary to the committee
of foreign affairs, for certain publications and let
ters being inconsistent with his official character
and !uty, w .en the said Thomas Paine resigned his
office— l'hei ciipon,
" Resolved, That the said Thomas Paine is dif
mifled from any further service in the said office, ;
and the committee of foreign affairs are directed to
call upon said Thomas Paine, and receive from him
on oath, all public letters, papers, and documents,
in his pofTeffinn.
" A fourth amendment was moved as a fubfti
tnte to the whole in the words following,"
" Resolved, that the Committee of foreign af
fairs be directed to take out of the pofleffion of
Thomas Paine, all the public papers entrulled to
him as Secretary to that committee, and then dis
charge him from that office."
" When the qutltion was about to put, a divi
sion was called for ; and the queltion being put to
adopt the _^»j?part,
" PafTcd in the affirmative. 1
" Ori thequtflion to adopt the second part, the
yeas and nays being required by Mr. Lovell,
" It in th« affirmative.
" The question being then about to be put en
the main question, a division was called for ; and
the yeas and nays being required on the firlt part
by Mr, M'Kean,
" Resolved unatiimoufly, in the affirmative.
" On the.queftioH to agree to the second clause,
namely, and then df charge him from that'office, the
S'ares were divided."
Thn it was unanimously resolved to take the pa
peia <-.f wffi e from him ; .ifter which thclgttei
clause was immattri-d, although it was also before
carried. The diklolurc <if the secrets of his office
which wa« he cause ol ihe resolution, was mace as
ter he had [worn " to disclose no matter, the know
ledge of which should be acquired in confequene.
of his office, that he might be directed to keep fe
cret."
rORTHE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
NEW THEATRE.
The FAIR PENITENT,
That mafler-piece of the elegant Rowe, again drew
forth the splendid talents of Mrs. Merry, in Ca
lifta : and with pleasure we witnelTed a very respec
table audience, which had been attfaded, no doubt,
in a great measure, by the uuian of Mrs. Merry's
and Mr. Cooper's talents, as well as the strength
with which the charadlers of the play, generally,
were cast.
The lively portrait of the poor Califta, as given
by Mrs. Merry, will hardly fail to leave indelible
traces of her merit imprefTed on the remembrance
of the audience.
Through the whole of the former part of the
play, we were inelined to prefer Mrs. Whit
lock's performance of Califta. In many instan
ces, Mrs Merry's accent and cadence were falfe,
and th emphalis improperly laid ; and words
emphasized that did not require to be. In the
lalt aft, she crowned her former fame, and ef
faced from the mini l , ali concep ions of the poffi
biliiy of her being furpafTed. Iu the parting feene
with her father, (he wrung ever) heart with feeling
for her ideal anguish, and forced the tear of f>m
pathy from evtry eye. Indeed, this accomphlhed
aftrefs exceeded every prediction that could have
! been formed refpefting her, ■however sanguine. Iu
Califta, (he has furmfhed a ftandatd of excellci-ce
in acting, that will long be resorted trt—Happy
will it be, if Mrs. Merry hetfclf should be always
able to aft up te it.
Mr. Cooper was chaste, dignified and correct.
He ga»e not, however, all the lirength to Horatio
that the character required. Many parts demand
ed a fiimei and more energetic tone of voice.
Mr. Warren, in Scioltn, furnifhed proofs of
flrong natural powers; and his performance of ma
ny parts of the character, was at once feeling, ner.
vous and pure.
Mi. Morton gave the " gallant, gay Lothario,"
in an elegant style. This performer has seldom ap
peared to greater advantage. His improvement
has been rapid, fincc we last saw him in this cha
racter.
The rising merit of Mr. Fox, ef which we had
so conspicuous a specimen, in his Altamont, ceuld
not, without injustice, be passed over in silence
The chief defect in his performance of tbe charac
ter was, that by labouring to render his acting cor
rect, he appeared rather ftiff, formal, and somewhat
too cold. We cajnot omit, however, awatding
him gre'at credit for performing, with so much ac
a character on which, in no secondary de
gree, depends the developement and completion of
this iqterciliog drama.
We have seldom fcen a play perfumed, in which
the charaSers hav.e been better allftted, than in
the Fair Penitent, on Monday eveniDg. The remiss
ness, however, of the actors, in not committing
their refpeftive parts to memory, was too glaring
not to c»n(l, : f(re a gieat drawback upon the en
tertainment of theaudien c.
All the fighting 1 wa« execrable.
The Managers of the Theatre have, it seems,
fallen under the difpleafure'ofcthat Atlas of Infor
mation, the very papular Philadelphia Gazette, for
bringing- forward the flale dramas of the " worm
j eaten" Shakespeare,
J For my own part, I could with to fee tbe Im
mortal Bard of Naiure mare frequently resorted to ;
ana instead of repining at the too frequent perfor
mance of the plays of the sweet swan of Avon,
every man of taste and sentiment, must consider
them as a capital (lock, whence to derive relief and
relaxation from the dramatical cant, nonfcnfe, and
plagiarisms, of modern Cumbetlands and liichbaldl.
W.
BY THIS DAY's MAILS.
BOSTON, December 6.
There will probably be the wholu number of
, Electors ptefentat a preliminary meeting this day
Mr. Rire, from the Flrft Eastern, and Mr. Rof
leter from a Weltern Diftrift, are both in town.—
There is no expectation of any vacancy ; and the
late contested law will not come into operation.
NEW-YORK, Decemher 13.
We are happy to^ind that the loss sustained by' the
late fire, will be in a part mitigated to the proprietors,
as a number of the buildings were insured. This in
ftan<;e plainly proves the advantages resulting from this
excellent inftitdtion.
We have again the disagreeable ta{k of announ
cing i dreadful conflagration which has vifued the
city of Savannah ; am! of which we this day give
the particulars.
It appeais to have originated from accident ; and
to have been greatly increased Ky a fatal security
in the inhabitants, and a confcquent want of enter
prizing exertion at a moment when the si ft destruc
tive effects might have been checked, «r the imifery
which has followed been considerably abated. E
very part of the continent has, within a (hurt peri
od part, experienced the horrid viGtatinn of this ca
lamity to a truly alarming degree : and we must be
indubitably led, from this hard earned axperieuce,
to adopt every possible precaution for a llate of
greater security to our large towns ; where not on
ly the comfort and property of its own citizens are
placed at fueh hazardous Hake ; but the inteieil q{
the country at large, and the depofitg of. foreign
merchants become also so precariously involved.
df A Stated Meeting of
The American Philosophical Society,
WILL be held at their Hall next, Friday evening- at
6 o'clock ; when the annual Magellanic Premium is to b«
awarded.
The Society are also desired to meet at their Hall, on
Saturday next at il o'clock, in the ioicnooti, to proceed
from thei]££ to *he Presbyterian Chtfrch, in High-street,
where an eulog;um to the memory of their late PrefiJent,
David Rittbn house, will be pronounccd before
;i cm at i a o'clock.
Dcc 14.
New-England Rum, Salmon, Beef^
Chocolate, Rice, Bollon mould and dipt Candles, a
tew quartcr-cafks of Sherry Wine, aud a few barrels o£
Cyder—for sale by
Ezekiel Hal! ?
No. 42, North Water street.
December 14th, 1796. .
Pantheon,
AND RICKETTS's AMPHITHEATRE,
For Equestrian and Stage Performances
Corner of Chefnut and Sixtli-flreets
To-Morrow Evening, Thursday, December 15,
Will be presented,
A Variety of
Manly Feats Horsemanship. ,
After which will be presented a Comic Entertainment
in two adls, called
THE GHOST;
Or Living Apparition.
(Between the intervals of Stage and Equestrian Ex
ercises)
The whole to conclude with the grand serious Panto
mime, under the direction of melTrs. Solly and
Spinacuta, called
The Death of Captain Cook.
Mr. F E N N £ L L *
RefpeHfully submits to the public patronage his in
tention of delivering, during the ensuing winter, *
A CoURSfc OF
Readings and Recitations,
Moral, Critical, and Enteriainiug;
Confiding chiefly of detached p,ece», icledled tVom
the molt admired authors, in prqfe and verie:—Ar
jjngfd in such a manner as to exhibit a striking display
of the human passions, and the gradual influence o£
vices on the mind contraited with that of their oppo
site virtues, in affe&ing the happiness ot' man and th«
welfare of nations. The readings wi l ! be occalionally
interspersed with observations on the mott celebrated
authors,
And the ART of SPEAKING.
The whole intended as a combined system of moral,
critical, hiitorical, and oratorical infirufhon, calcula
ted to form the patriot and the man, and lay a !oun
dation for the science of moral and political govern
ment.
The course will consist of thirty readings.
Each reading will be delivered in the morning and
evening of the lame day.
The dayt of reading willbeTuefdays &Thursdays.
'i he morning readings will commence at 10 o'clock,
and the evening at 7.
None but fubfcriberi will be admitted to the morn
ing readings.
The evening readings will be public, to which also
fubferiptions will be received.
Subscription to the mornings 8 dollars.
Subscription to the evening readings 10 dollars. '
CJtcalional admission tickets to the evening reading*
half a dollar.
Subscription? are received by Mr. Zachariah Poul
fon, jun. at the Library, to whom the Ladies and
Gentlemen who may be inclined to honor the underta.
king with their patronage, are refpeftfully requested ta
fend their names.
Dec. la. d6t.RAN A W A T,
'About the ift of o<sfcober"laft, from the plantation of
Mr. Thomas F. Brooke, (in Prince George's county) to
whom he was hired, a NEGBO MAN, named C&SAR;
33 years of age; about 5 feet 8 or 9 inches high; well
made; of a yellowilh complexion ; a little pockmarked:
has, whenfpoken to, rather a down look, and submissive
tone of voice: the clot&es he had before he absconded
were of plain, such .as labouring Negroes usually wear,
but these he may probably exchange for others : he will
doubtless endeavour to pafs'for a freeman, having;, as I
have been informed, aflumed the name of Sutler : I have
reason to believe that he went to Baltimore, from wheftce
he is said to have gone to forne part of the Sufquefcannah,
probably with a view of getting to Pennsylvania. A
reward of Thirty Dollars will be given to the person who
may take him and so secure him in some jail that I may i
get him aga.in, if taken in this state, and Fifty dollars if
taken out of the state, and if brought home or secured in
the jail of Prince George's coutity all reasonable charges
will be paid by ALEXR. COVINGTON.
Maryland, Prince George's Cdunty r .")
2nd November, 1796. y rith*t&f4W
* * SWANN'S, ~
Riding School % Horse Academy Iff Infirmary.
Adjoining the Public Square, Market Street.
T. SWANN
RETURNS hisffmcere thanks tothofe gentlemen by whom
he has been employed, during histefiderice in this City, and
flattershimfelf that the success of his efforts, in the numerous,
obstinate and' dangerous diseases in Horfcs, in which he has
been consulted, together with his moderate charges, will se
cure their futurefavors and recemmendation.
He now begs leave to inform them and the public at large
that his spacious and commodious premises, eretted for the
purposes above d'&fcn bed are open for the reception of pupils
of either sex, who with to beinftruttcd in the Art of Riding,
and the tight method of governing their horses, so as to ride
them with ease, elegance, and fafety—their horses will' be
carefully and expeditioufly broke, for every purpose, and
made obedient to the will of the riders ; the natural powers
which are shut up in them, will be unfolded by art, calling
forth uniformity of motion, and giving to that noble animal
all tho'fc beauties of aflion which providence has so bounti
fully bestowed on thena.
Also, at his hospital, every diformer to which the horse is
liable will be treated according to the rules of art, confirmed
by long and repeated experience.
The utility of the above inftitut ion has never been qneftion
«d, that it has long been wanted in this city, ev »• . gentleman'*
stud will manifefl, and *T. Swank as the fir It eftabUlher of
the veterenary art, solicits and relies upon the fuppottof that
public (which he is ever anxious in feiving) to enable him to
biingit to perfe&ion. The idea of a fuofcription for what
purpose has beeujiinted by feve»al gentleman, who wish to
promote the institution—the amount of each fubfeription to
be returned by services in any of the departments he profeffes,
agreeable to the rate of charges fluted in his hand bill. Such
fcbfcViption is*now open, and the signatures of many refpeft
able gentlemen already obrained. He therefore injorms his
friends and such Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has not
the honor of being known, that he shall in a few days take
the liberty of waiting upon them and foltckiug their support
and prote&ioo.
N B. Horses are properly prepared for those Ladies and
who wilh to be inftrutted.
Nov. 5. tth&f.
Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64, South SeCCND STREET.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. -3, for sale—a
Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
the late lottery.
Check Books kept for examination and registering, for
the City of Washington, Nd. a, and Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which arc now drawing—information where
pickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel 3nd Public SchooltLottcry, for
examination.
The fubferiber solicits the application of the public
.andjiis friejids, who wish to purchase or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
See. or to obtain money on deposit of property.
* 0 * Also Tickcts in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
sale at Ten Dollars each, which will be drawn early in
the Spring.
Win. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, At/jpitfl 18, 1 72^.
Trealury of the United States.
is hereby given to all ptrfbns who are 01;
X\ may be Creditors of the United States, for any sums
©f the Funded J)d t, or Stock, bearing a prsfcnt interejl of ftx
■kcretnbsm per annum.
i ft, That pursuant to an AA of Congress pafl"cd on the
lßth day of April, 1796, intitledan a& in addition to an
aft, intituled " An aft making further provision for the
support of public iradit, and for the redemption of the
public debt," the said debt or stock will be reimburfedand
paid in manner following, to wit. " First, by dividends
to be made on the last days of March, June and Septem
" ber for the present year, and from the year one thousand
" seven hundred and nincty-feven, to the year one thou
" sand eight hundred & eighteen irtclufive,at the rate of
•• one and one half per centum upon the original capital.
** Secondly, by dividends to be made on the last day of
u December for the present year, and from the year one
14 thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year
" one thousand eight hundred and seventeen inclusive, at
•* the rate of threti and one half per centum upon the ori
u ginal capital; and by a dividend to be ma'e on the last I
" day 0/ December, in the year one thousand eight hun
u drcd and eighteen, of such Attn, as will be then ade
" quate, according to the contract, for the final redemp
" tioti of> th said flock."
ad. All diftin<slion between payments on account of
Jnterefi and Principal being thus abolished by the eftablifha
went of the permanent rule of re;n\f)urfement above de
erib£d, it has becoxne neceflary to vary accordingly the
powers of attorney for receiving dividends; the public
creditor.* will therefore observe that the following form
» eftablifhedfor all powers of attorney which may be
granted after the due promulgation of this notice, viz!
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that
2 ° f .
do make, conjiitutc and appoint
of my true and lawful At
torney, .for me , and in my-name, to receive the dividends ivbich are,
cr fball be payable according to iaiv, on the (here dcfcribingthe
stock) flanding in my name in the books of (here deferibm g* the
books of the Treasury or the Cotamiflioncr of Loans,
where the stock is credited) from (here insert the com
mencement and expiration of time for which the power of
attorney is to coHtinUe) with power also an attorney or aitor
nits under him, for that purpose to make andfubftitutc, ar.dto do all
lawful ails requifitefor effecting the premises, hereby ratifying and
confirming all that my said Attorney or hisfubflitute,fball lawful
ty do, by virtue hereof.
In JVitn.fs hereof, I have hereunto ft my Hand and Seal th*
day of in the year
Seated and delivered
in presence of,
BE IT KNO WN, that«n the day of
tfire me personally came
within named and acknowledged the above letter of attorney to be
■lit aft and deed.
Jn tejlimeny wherlof I have hereunto set my Han imnd affix
ed Seal the day and year lap iifotcjaid.
Givep tinder my Hand at Philadelphia, thistwen
tieth day of July 1796, pursuant to diredions
from the Secretary of the Treasury.
SAMUEL MEREDITH,
of the United States.
July 13* wMft tl J
WANTED, < j
As Cook, in a private family,
A YOUNG WOMAN who can produce goof! re
commendations of an unexceptionable character. En
quire of the Printer.
November i>. ftf
The Elephant
IS RETURNED FROM BALTIMORE.
THE public are refpettfully informed, that
this animal is to be icen every day, from 8
o'clock in the morning till fun down, in Nfcrktt*
street, No. 106, south fide, between Third and
Fourth-ftieets.
Admittance a quarter of a dollar, lhat every ci
tir.en may fee him.
!£/- At the rcqHeft of many persons it will be
exhibited on evenings from five to eight o'clock,
at half a dollar cach.—The room will be well
lighted.
November 7. d
James Mufgrave,
GOLDSMITH W JEWELLER,,
No. 42, south Second-street,
HAS Just received an aiTortment of Plated Ware
and Jewellery , Plated Tea and Coffee Urns, Coffee
Pots, Tea ditto, Castors from 5 to 8 bottles, Sugar and
Cream Basons, Bottle Stands, Balkets, high Candkflics,
Brackets and Chamber ditto, Branches, Sconces, a variety
of Silver and Plated Shoe La*diets, Spurs, Vft. life, war
ranted of the best plate; Ladies and Gentlemess Gold
Watch Chains, Seals and Keys ; Necklaces, Neck Chains,
Eear Rirgs, Finger Rings, Lockcts, Brcaft Pins, Stone
Knee-Buckles, with raany other articles in the above
branches.
He has likewise received an extensive affortmentof
japartri'd tea and coffee Urns, per Han, blue, brown,
black and gold.
All kinds ©f work inthe gold and silver line; minia
tures set, and hair work executed anufual.
November 9. tu th & f
Any Person
IVbe is well acquainted with the River
MISSISIPPI,
And will give Dirs&ions for failing into the fame,
that can be depended on, (hall be genaroufly reward
ed for his information, provided lie will leave the
direflions with Mr. John Feano, printer, Philadelphia,
or Edmund M. Blunt, Newburyport.
November 3. lawim
Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE.
No. 63 South Third flreet.oppofite the national new Bank.
SAMUEL M FfcAtJNtES and JOHN VAN REED,
have entered into co-partnership, under the firm of
FRAUNCES & VAN REED, in the business e'f Brokers,
Conveyancers and Commiflion merchants. They buy and
fell 011 commiflion every species of stock, notes of haud,
bills of exchange* houses and lands, &c.
Mon*y procured on deposits, Sea &c. all kinds cf
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatnefsand
dispatch; accounts adjusted, and books fetfcjed, in the
most corre& manner. Cosftant attendance will be given.
They solicit a share of the public favor ; they are deter
mined to endeavour to deserve it.
N. B. The utmoil secrecy observed.
SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES,
JOHN VAN Rfi&O.
Philad. August a;, 1796. m&wtf
City of Waihington.
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11,
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT 0 t THE
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent ) ao,®oo dollars, & ?
t3weHing-houfe, ) cafli 30,000, are 5 s°' ooo
I ditto 15,000 & cash 25,000 40,000
I ditto 15,000 & cafli 15,000 30,000
I ditto 10,000 & ealh 10,000 20,000
1 ditto 5,000 & ca(h 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & ca(h 5,00e 10,000
1 ca(h prize of 10,000
a do. 5,000 each, are • 10,000
ro do. i,.00 . - to,ooo
20 do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. 100 - - ' 10,000
too do. 50 > • 10,000
4co do. ' - 10,000
1,000 do. 20 - 20,000
IS,OOO do. to - 150,000
16,739 Prizes.
33.261 Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollar*, 400,000
N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity of
Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the last drawn
ticket, and the 30,000 the last hut one :
And approved notes, fecurinj* payment ineither money
or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be received foi
any number not less than 30 tickets.
This Lottery w3l afford an elegant specimen of the pri
vate buildings to be ere&ed in the City of Waihington—
Two beautiful defigm are already fcle&ed for the entire
fronts on two of the public l'quares; from these prawings
it ispropofed to creel two centre and four corner bMildiugs,
as soon as poiTible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the mannerdefcribcd in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery.
A nett dedwftion of five per cent, will tie made to defray
the necelfary expenses of printing, the fuifplus
will be made a part of the fund intended for the National
University, to be eietSed within the city of Waihington.
The Drawing will commence as soon as the ticket! are
old off.—The money prizes will be payable in thirty days
after it is finilhed ; and any prizes for which fortunate
numbers aie not produced within twelve months after the
drawing is closed, arc to be conlldercd as given toward*
the fund for the University ; it being determined to fettle
the whole business in a year from the ciding of the draw
ing, and to take up the bonds given as security.
The real securities given for the payment of the Frizes,
are held by the President and *wo Director* of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
mount of the lottery.
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment cf
che late Commiflioners alfifted in the management of the
Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake this arduous talk
a second time on bfhalf ef the public ; a fufficient nam
bcr of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
friends to a National University and the other federal ob
je&s may continue to favor the dcfign.
By accounts received from the different parts of the
Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets
have been lent for sale, the public are assured that the
drawing will speedily commence, and that the care and
caution unavoidably neceflary to insure a fafe disposal of
the tickets, has rendered the fnurr indilpenjable,
SAMUEL HLODGET.
«§« Tickets may be had at the Bunk of Columbia ; of
James Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter Oilman, Boston r
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and -of Richard Wells 1 ,
Cooper's ferry. eo
Delaware and Schuylkill ffanal.
The Stockholders are hereby notified, that the an
nual Election for Officers for the ensuing year, wiil
be held at the Company's office, near the Bank of the
United States, on the firft Monday in January next,
at <10 o'clock, A. m.
By Lite Board of Managers.
IVM. MOORE SMITH, Sec'ry.
Philadelphia, Dec. 1, 1796. $3eStlD
A Short Delay
In the Drawing of the Canal Lottery,
In Washington, city, has been unavoidably occasioned
Ivy the unfordeCn intervention of Mr. Blodgct's Lottery
—but a«i the major pait of the tickets are now disposed
of, this is to inform the public that the drawing of the Ca
nal Lottery will certainly commence without fail, on the
lirft Monday in January 1797, and those holding tickets,
aie hereby requcfted to fend a flatement of those fold, and
those on hand.
NOTLY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, of Duddington,
GEORGE WALK£R,
TMDMA3 LAW,
JAMES BARRY,
W. M. DUNCANSON.
Tlia Printers who gave our advertisements a plaoe in
rfieir newfnapers, are requcfted to give this notice admtf
lion, as the remaining tickets are expedled to be soon above
par, and we wifih adventurers to be timely informed
N#v. iz. j5-|6w.
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL will open hisfchool on Mon
day the 31ft inft. at ten o'clock in the morning, at his
Elegant hew Ball Rooms,
In Fourth, between Cheftiut and Walnut Streets.
Hours of tuition for young ladies, from 10 to 1 o'clock
on Mondays, Wednesday, and Friday mornings; and for
young gentlemen from 6 to 9 o'clock on the evenings o
the feme days.
In addition to a number of new cotillions, he means to
introduce a variety of Scotch Reels.
Note. The firft pra&ifnag ball to be on Tuesday e
vening, the firft of November, and to be continued every
Tuesday, during the fealon.
For terms, &c, enquire at his houfc, N0.134* Market
ftreet.
o«st. 17. trlif
Samuel Richardet
RESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in the
city of Philadelphia,
The Subscription Room will be furniflied with all the
daily papers published in Philadelphia, New-York, Bof
fon, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com
mercial cities of Europe—They will be regularly filed
! and none permitted to be taken away oh any account,
j Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellicn, Ice Creams, and a variety
I of French Liquors; together with the usual refrelhments,
will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquort., and the mod
approved Malt Liquors from London and other breweries.
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and earliest
prodmfUons of the Seafon^
Large and small Parties, or single Gentlemen, may be
accomodated with Breakfafls, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hot#.-, most convenient to themselves—a cold Collation is
regularly kept for eonveniency, the Billof Fare to be had
at the- bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifhed, and
the utmost attention paid to cleanliness, and every other
requisite.
10' SArttfiL Rxchardetwill behappyto reccive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
Urge; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfelf that nothing oh his part (hall be wanting to pre
fer vc that patronage with which he has been so diftinguilh
ingly honored.
Philadelphia, April 19. mwf
Twenty Guineas Reward.
RAN AW AY from the fubferiber on the 23d October,
a Dark MULA'ITO BOY, named MOSES ; 21 years
eld; about 5 feet 8 inches high ; had on a mwad green
coat, with a green velvet cape and oval yellow buttons;
a striped vest ; a pair of dark spotted pantaloons, and
whole boots much worn. It is probable he may change
his name and dress. He has been accustomed t© driving
a carriage,* and waiting. The above reward will be
paid for fccuring him so that the fubferiber may get him
again, and if brought home aJJ reasonable charges paid by
Robins Chamberlaine.
Eailon, Maryland, Nov, 10. 14 f imiawtf
Treasury Department,
September 28, 1796.
NOTICE is hereby given, that proposals will be re
ceived at the office of the Secretary of the Treasury
until the expiration of the firft day of March next en
suing, for tke supply of all rations which may he required
for the use of the United States, from the firft day of
June, 1797, to the thirty-firft day of May, 1798, both
days inclusive, at the places 2nd within the diftri&s here- 1
after mcntiofted, viz. At Ofwego; it Niagara ; at I
Pjcfqtie lAc; at Sanduikv Lake, and on Sandufky
River ; at Detroit; at Michiiimackinac; at Fort-Frank
lin; at Pittfturgh ; at Cincinnati; at ;
at Fort St. Clair; at,Fort-J*iierfon; at Grenvillc; at
Picquc Town and Loramies Store; at Fort Adams; at
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance ; at any place below Fort
Defiance on the Miami R* :r to Lake Eric; at Fort
Steuben ; at FortMaffac ; at auy place from Fort Maffac
to the ftmth boundary of the United States on the river
MifUfippi; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiatanbn.
If fupplies/ftiall be required ior any polls or places not
mentioned in this notice, all such supplies Shall be fur
nifhed at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
polls before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed on
between the United States and the Contiaitor.
The rations to be iupplicd are to consist of the fol
lowing articles, viz.
One pc£'.id two ounces of bread or flour.
One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounces of
pork or bacon.
Half a gill of rum, brandy or whilkcy.
One quart and half a pint of fait.")
Two quarts of "Vinegar, ( . . ,
Two pounds of Soap, ( P er hundrcd " tlon '
One pound of Candies, J
The rations are to be furnifhed in such quantities, asthat
:?here &all at all times during the said term, be fulficient
for the consumption of the troops at Michiiimackinac, De
troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, for the term of fix months in
advance, and at each of the other posts, for the term of
at least three months in advance, in good and wholesome"
provisions, if the fame lhall be required. It is to be un
tlerftood, that the Contra&or i9to beat the and
risk of issuing the fupplius to the troops at each post, and
that all lolTes sustained by the depredations of an enemy, or
by means of the troops of the United States, lhall be paid
for at the price of the articles captured or destroyed, on i
the depositions of two or more persons of creditable cha
racters, and the certificate of a commiflioncd officer, as
certaining the circumstances of the loss, and the amount
of the articles for which compcnfation (hall be claimed
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary ©f the Treasury.
By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64,
South Second-Jlrcet.
SCHEME of 7 LOTTERY,
For railing Sixty Thousand Dollars, agreobly to an Aft oi
the Legislature of Pennfylvaaia, passed duiiog the Ja.t
fcflion, for building a Stone Bridge over the River
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, in the County of
Berks. Dollars.
1 Prize of 20 000 Dull*** - 20,000
1 do. of to,ooo do. - - 10,000
3 do. of 5,000 do. ... 1,5,000
4 do. of 2,000 do. - - 8,000
20 do, of 1,000 do. ... 20,000
39 d o. of 500 do. - . 19.500
8o do. of 200 do. ... 16,000
200 do. of i®o do. - i . 20,000
300 do. of 50 do. - .
1 do* of % 500 do. to be paid the pofTef- >
for ©f the firft drawn no. j
5 .do 4 of 3,000 do. to be paid pofTeflors )
of the five lall drawn nos $ x s»®°*
9,400 do. o 15 do. : - 141,000
10,054 Prizes 300,000
10,046 Blanks —
30,000 Tickets at Ten Dollars goo,oo®
All Prizes (hall be paid fifteen days after the drawing ij
dnifhed, upon the demand of a poffeflor of a. fortunate
ticket, fubje& to a deduction of twenty per cent. Tbe
Drawing will commence as soon as the Tickets are disposed
. of, or perhaps sooner. of which public notice will be given,
Philip Miller, Peter Kerjhner, William IVitman»
Joseph Hiejhr, James Diemer, Thomas Dundas,
James May, John Otto, John Keim, Daniel Graeff,
Sebajlian Miller, Commissioners.
Reading, May the 9th, 1796.
Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. s, to be had at the
above offiee, where the earliefl information of the draw
ing of the Waftiington No. 2, and Patterfon l,ottery'«,
are received, and check books for examination and regit
tering are kept,
October 7. j awtf
Patcrlon Lottery.
FOR riifing fix thousand fix hundred and sixty-seven
dollars and fifty cents, by a dedudion of fifteen par
cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a prize, viz
1 Priee of 5000 dollars is dollars 5000
* 1000 rooo
1 S°° 500
S 100 ioco
2,0 100 20G0
99 50 49J0
100 IS 5000
1000 10 ,o,ooa
J Lad drawn numbers of toco dollars each, JOOO
*331 Prizes. 44,450
4018 Blanks.
6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars eaeh, 44,453
By order of the Diredors of the Society for eftabliiii
ing Ufeful Manufactures, the fuperiot-enriams of the Pat
erfon Lottery have requfftcd the Managers to offer the
foregoing S.heme to the public, and have dire&ed them
to refund the money to thufe persons who have purchaLd
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
n this Lottery.
The lottery has actually commenced drawing, and wist
continue until finilhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prize,
may be seen at the office oi William Blackburn, No. 64
south Second street, who will give information where tick*
ets may b« procured.
Dated this 17th day of June, 1796.
J. N- GUMMING, ">
JACOB R. HARDENBERG, [ Manage.
JONATHAN RHEA, >
STATE OF THE WHEEL.
I Prize of 5000 ... 5000
I 1000 - lOOQ
1 500 - - - JOO
5 ioo ... lOC©
ap 100 - - . -CCS
90 s*> . 450 a
165 »5 - . . 412J
The Ave last drawn tickets, 1000 soce
Being all the valuable prizes, besides a full propar
tion of the to dolUrs.
As the Lottery is confidently more than one third
drawn, the value of the undrawn tickets it great
j ly increased, and it is worth the notice of those
who hold tickets in thaold scheme, that thevr can ex
change their tickets for thole in the above, if they ap
ly soon, and at a moderate advance coafideruig the
now real value of an undrawn ticket.
The tickets being nearly all fold, the drawing in
future will be oftener, and the Lottery ioon finilhed.
November T2- niw ,
Waflungton Canal Lottery,
NO. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorif»&
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of catting
a Canal through the City of Wafliington, irosi th Po
tomact-o theEaftern Branch Haruour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Vizl Prize of 20,000 pilars, 00,000
I ditto ie,ooo 10,000
7laftdrawn7
Tickets, each f J,oo ° 35.000
6 ditto 1,000 6,00 a
16 ditto 400 4,000
ao ditto 100 tfooo
SS d'" o SO a,7?0
5750 ditto i» 69,008
To be raised for th. Canal, 26,250
5850 Prizes, 175,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, . 175,000
&' The Commissioners have taken the Securities re '
quired by the ai'orefaid aft for the punctual payment of
the prizes.
lhe drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon as thf Tickets are fold, of which timely
notie'e will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after th,
drawing is finilhed, lhall be considered as relinquished for
the benefit of the Lanal,<a!id appropriated accordingly
(Signed j NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, o/D.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BAI4RY.
City of WalhiDgton, Feb. 11. 5
PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO,
—No. 119 —
CHFSNUT-STREET.
[Price Fight Dollars p.r Annum.]