#a?ette m Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
THURSDAY EVENING, AUGUSTS, 179*- v JOZ.vmu T.
Numb** 1230-,1 b— ~r:Z}T~ wlrWftet" I GEORGE Dobson,
Forßofton, £
The brig Neptune
> | ter.
. Tames Tower. Miller, 3!
WILL fell on Sunday
W Ang..6 5 No- '76 South Front Kr ~f.t. r
For HAMBURGH, . 1
THE 8HI?
J Jul,
Robert Jackson, Master, -
WtQuS***. To fail in fifteen days, V
twD _thirds of her cargo en
ed and ready to go on board. For freight or pa '» 0 C
yto the matter on board at Wain's wharf or to TJTA
rp) John Donnaldfon, fit
. J No. «4 Walnut-street. Merc«i
* S6c«f he Wlll
July 1%. —> -r- —- —
JfihL, The brig Mary gj
mmtA FOR SALE, Do
AND may be seen at Abi*h and William Som
Brown's wharf. She is about 800 barrels Ban,
burth-n, strong built, and well but-bolted, has elegant Lon
accommodations, is a e ood sailer, only io months old, Bog
and may be sent to sea immediately. Apply to
James Brown,
No. 119 South Second-ftrect. Um
Who has for sale, a few puncheons high proof I'rci
Jamaica Spirits.
AND A FEW BARRELS SHAD.
Aug. u _
For Sale or Charter, ( {^, r
BOSTON,
about 1000 Bbls. of flour— she may be sent 1\
to sea at a small expence, her fails and rigging being lr. Mcffti
wry good order—apply to '
'James Campbeil, or
Geerge Latimer.
A»riU9, 1 Apt
This Day commenced Landing,
At \>ifflins wharf, the cargo of the Brig Lucy and Sloap
St. J ago, from St. J ago Je Cuba—conumngot j . #
White and Brown Box SUGAR. I
MOLASSES, of an excellent quality.
COFFEE.
HIbES and HONEY. Also,
For Sale or Charter. I
The brig UG^,
A stout, strong vessel, "will carry a
y&S' /V bout moo barrels, and piay go to 1
with a very small expense. I ,
TheaboveCuTbe fold for calh or approved notes. .
Samuel Emery, _
No. 64, foutli Second-street.
■ / * dtf.
July *7,- 1790- [Thl
" " " For Sale, _ 1
Or for Charter to she Weft-Indies,
* C ER'iS S, I" a
Philadelphia Built 9 I e
and Red Cedar, burthen about bar-
O rcls now discharging at Latimer s wharf, 'hisvrf , f
M is in excellent rdpair, well fouud and will bear a tho
sough exantadon, andas soon as discharged will be tea )«
cty to take in a cargo. For terms apply to
John Vaughan.
July a 8 __ — — j
Tclielold by pnblic sale,
ON Wednesday, the 7th day of September next, on 1
the premises in Mount-Holly .Burlington county, by rh
the Subscriber, it. I
The Dwelling-House ana Lot
Whereon it stands, having been in part occupied as a store £
for several years past, ar.d in a good stand lot business, to
gether with the store-house, liable and buildings thereon
L,fted, having two large pilars under them. Also. the A
fliop goods and houkhold furniture. Aclear title will be
riven to the purchaser on payment of the money or fuf
' ficiint bond therefor, and possession of the prem.fes will
be given in the f ? «d month of September. I
The sale is to continue 'till the whole is disposed of.
Mount Holly having become rhe County Town makes
thii property m»r= valuable than heretofore. The condi
tions will be made known at the -
N. B. All persons indebted to the fubfenber, are rcqueft- j
, ed to discharge the fame immediately, as he intends soon
to remove out of this state. Any perfofil having a -fuft d*
mandagainftthefubferiber, is requested to Police the
fame for settlement. IS I
Mount Holly, 1796. |
WANTED,
A STORE and Cellar or Comptijig house and Cellar,
for the Whslefale and Dry Geod business. Enquire
at No. 129 Arch-street.
For Sals at the above place,
coo Boxes Window Glass, Bby 10, 7by 9, &c. I ,
coo Cream Cheeses in thebeft order, imported from \
HoUand, and entitled to drawback. Enquire of j 6
Peter Borger, c
Aug-16 2aw * w
Just Arrived,
In the Snow Boston, James Kirkpatrick, master from Li- 1
verpool,
cooo Bulhcls SALT ;
100 Crates QUEENS WARE ; and j
4in AfTortment of SHli' CHANDLERY ;
FOR SALE
On board, at Pine-street wharf.- Apply to
"James Campbell, or
George Latimer.
; " April 19- — L
A middle-aged Woman.
t.TTHO hai been used to the care of children, and can
W give r-ference for her reputation, may hear of a
place, as childynaid, by applying to the Printer.
A " •• *5 — I
Apprentice wanted
ro carving a*d gilding.
\ Yo'ith about 14, of refpe<?table patents and can be
/? v..': recommended. None other need apply.
Eaquire of th« Printer. Aug. ij 3' j
■
Landing
From on the Nancy, William Belcher, mas- p;
ter, from Bourdeanx, a cargo, confiftii-.jr of— lV
360 Hilda.' CHOICE CLARET, TAVI
2?2 Cases of 24 bottles each, Claret, clt L£ !
286 do. of 24 do. WHITE WINE, d J h£
BRANDY, SWEET OIL, and ton ; B '
1 TRUNK of RIBBONS, j mercia
For Sate by ' and uc
F. Coppinget
July 23. ■ L ' l ''
— ~ — Ger
. Wm. HOLDERNESSE,
e No. 76 High Street, Tbi
HAS received, by the latest arrivals from Europe and produ
the East Indies, a well fele&ed assortment of Silk Lar
Mercsry, I.inen Drapery and Haberdalhery Goods; which accoir
he will fell, Wholesale and Retail, on the lowest terms ; honrs
AMONGST WMICH ARB, teglllj
Some fine India muslins emoroidered with gold and (fiver at the-
Superfine Book, Jaconet, and Mulmul ditto Th>
Do do do do Handkerchiefs the ut
n Some eitra black colored Persians reqm
Is Bandano Handkerchiefs
it Long and (hort Nankeens execu!
j, English Mantuas of the firft quality large;
Oamalk table linen and napkins, very nne himie
SilkHofiery, an elegant assortment '' cr '-'' '
Thead and cotton do du
Umbrellas—green silk, oil'd do. and do cloth '
French cambrics, very fine "
Irilh Linens, do. &c. &c. June 14 §
Wanted,
- A Partner with a small capital to unite in the buGrrefs
of a Mill and Diftillerj in Virginia. Inquire of
the Printer. Aug. 9 § IW
For Sale,
A Three story BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut
street, between Front and Second ftrcets, m which
in Messrs. James Calbraith & Co. have for many years (and
now do) carried on business.
Poffcflion will be given in one nronth, or sooner.
For terms apply to WILLIAM BELL. or
HECTOR CALBRAITH.
April 21. 1
FOR SALE,
"P WINE, London particular Madeira, 4 years old,
in pipes and hoglheads
: Claret, genuine old, in cases f etSj
I Gin, in pipes, from Holland
1 Earthen Ware, in crates
Balket Salt, in hoglheads
y Shot, N05.,6, 7. 1 311(1 9 , Jt
Bar Lead, Red and white dry lead
aI > Steel, German and Rufiia, in barrels
, to Anchor?, cables, junk, bunting, tarpohn canvas,
Tin plates—An invoice Stationary, by
THOMcVS & JOHN KE FLAND. JLJ
J»'y __L wlie
f. ELEPHANT. rZ
— This Animal is to be seen in High-Street, between fion
■ —the 'I cn:h and ilx - '
TTE will positively leave Philadelphia the tenth of Sep R
H tembcr,for Baltimore,. in his way to Charlellon,
I where he will win'cr .
ADMITTANCE Half a Dollar—-quarter ol a Dollar
I for Children _ , , r
v 1 The PANORAMA, or the VIEW of the CITIES of
1 LONDON and WESTMINSTER,
, V , I Is to be open till the 10th of September, and the fub
ieel will then be removed to Baltimore with the LLli- 11
ICa I PHANT.
I ADMITTANCE for the PANORAMA, aac
J One quarter of a Dollar. ant
§ Augufl 3. ;
t> on Saies of India Goods.
y,by j The Cirgo ef the Ihip Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cal- fro
cutta and Bengal,
consisting OF
a I A Laree and eeneral assortment of Bengal and Madras In
"° t0 _ IJ\ COTTON and SILK GOODS. / ed
j AMONG WHICH ARE £ s
I A variety fine worked and plain Muslins,
'ill he I Uoreas, iffc. Also,
r fu . f j A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
In boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER, 1
, r I - For Sale by In
makes I Willings Francis,
:ondi- I ' No. ai Penn Street.
de, by 1 j ß nc 8 §
qu est . - " For sale by the fubkribers,
j soon I IN PfNN-STREET,
aft de- I ijo quarter Chests t'refh Hyson Te2 ; v g
ice the 1 100 ditto do. frefh Souchong Tea; ai
Jiw I 3 00 Boxes China, containing small tea setts of 41 ,p
I pieces; e
I 400 pieces Banclanoes. J
Cellar. Willings & Frdttcis.
nquire 1 January 30 3 taw -
India Goods at Audtiou. t
kc. I y~\N Friday next, at'lo o'clock in the morning, will be
d from I fold at auAion, ati No. 56 South Front-street, about -
°f 16 0 bales of India white Goods, entitled to the drawback,
IT, confiding of— t
,v« w 1 Long Cloths 1
I Baftas
Gurrahs i
om Li- 1 Emerties t
Coflaes 1
Humhums 1
J Tanjibs I
J Mull Mulls.
Edward Fox, Au&'r.
or —
Sait Petre.
'' j A few tons of excellent
EAST-INDIA SALT-PETRE,
Ll* 1 FOR SALE 3 Y
»nd car I Samuel Breck, jun.
;ar of s Aug. 9- eo6 • Rofs's Wharf.
—— Landing,
From on board the Schooner Expedition,
St. Croix Rum&Sugar,
. Can ' j For Sale by F. COPPINGER,
3 t | Aug. 11 § 221 South Front-street.
Samuel Richardet,
RESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen gEG
Merchant, tliat he has this dsy opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEE HOUSE in the
city of Philad' Uhia: o , . / n . wh f re
The Subscription Room will be furriifhed WJth all the uude^ra
daily papers fuhlifhed in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos- "pe
ton, Baltimore, together with tTrole of the principal ™
iik-rci-1 of i-uropc—They wijl be rc§ftbrly tile
and none permitted ro be taken away on any account.
Tea, Coflce, Soupes, JeJlie?, Ice Creams, and a variety
of I sorj; together with the usual
will at hUW(Js be procure Ist the bar. , . , Blut
Gentlemen may depend on being; accommodatcd wit»i
the choiccO; n f Win'ei, Spirituous Liquors, a;id the molt Lonj
approved Malt Liquors fromLoudon and orhcr breweticv "4-4"
The Larder will befupplied with thejsrime and earliefl .
i produAions of Ahe Scafon. 4:4
c Large and fiyall.Parties, or single Gentlemen, may be 4.4
1 accommodated viirli Breakfafts, D'inn'rs, or Suppers, <vt 4-4 ,
honrs most convenient to themielves —a cold Collation is 6-4
regularly kept for ccnveniency, the Bill of Fare to be had 4-4
r at the-bar. '
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifhed, and aia
the utmost attention paid po cleanliness, and every other
s : requiflte. . q Ui
0'- SiMuel Richardet will be happy to receive, and
execute the comm..nds of his t^ie at M er
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfeif that notlung on his part ftiall be wanting to pre
fervethat patronage with which he has been so diftinguifh
ingly Zionored.
Philadelphia, April 19. eo rj
Philip Nicklin & Co.
HAVE FOR SALE, * W
Souchong conta
Hyfey; Skin ) alle y
f • Young Hyson S FRESH TEAS and j
Hyson and \ r S e
}
lt |n,na Ware, aflorted in Boxes and Chests f v
a Bandamio Handkerchiefs of excellent quality in
Cheft Lo»don Market 1 MADEIRA WIKE
London particular >in pipei, hoglheads, & bricl
New-York Market 3 quarter calks ing ,
Teneriffe Wine in pipes and hoglV.eads is at
Sugar Candy by the Box part
Sail Canv?.s No. I a B may
. Lead in sheets dwel
, 3 Caiks of Cutlery assorted and
A few chests of Manchester Goods, aflorted thick- hft 1
sets, cords, striped Nankcqns, &c. bath
3 Small packages ps black ftrwing-filks houf
8 Tierces Virginia Snake-root. thc c
. Nails aflorted in calks in
T,. ,o mw&f gooc
J"'y l!i — roon
u Jsfloeton and James Humphreys,
CONVEYANCERS, At tl
HAVE removed their.office to No. 6 1, Walnut-street,
next door btft two to the corner of Dsck-ftrett, _6t
. where all INSTRUMENT IN WRITING are drawn at
a moderate charge, with care, aqenracy and dilpatch.— , By
They likewise buy and fell Real Estates upon commir
•en fions, and proenre Money upon Loan on good security. ..
TK. bt.uncfs of an. .ATTORNEY AT i.AW and NOTA- I
RY VUELIC is also t ran failed at the Tail office as usual j
;P by AbSHiv lON HUMPHREYS.
N.B. Good Notes discounted.
liar July 5- ' eo6w V.,
— a — per
of For Sale,
u b- 'A Valuable Grift and Saw Mill, A
-.E- TN New Jersey, near the Forks of Little Egg-Harbour.
1 The Grift Millis sixty by forty feet, two water wheels,
and calculated for four run of Stones, with, screen, fans !
and boulting-cloths, &c. TheSaw-MillhastwoTaws,and bet
•j capable ofcuttingfiveto'6 100 thoufaudfectof Boardsper Ur
year. A valuable piece of Cedar Swamp, within a mile
and a half of the Mill, and within three quarters of a mile
of a Landing The Lumber, &c.may be taken by water is ;
Cal- from the mill tail.
ALSO FOR SALE, CO!
Several Valuable Tracis of Land,
,dras In fennfylvahia, for all of which payment will be receiv
' ed in the notes of Messrs. Morris and Nicholfon, or in Q
Calh. , _ . nc
ins, For further information apply to the Printer.
May 17- f u
Plans of the city of Philadelphia,
Including the Northern Liberties and drftridl of
Southwark; ci
, Published, and fold by N
et - BENJAMIN DAVIES, R
S , ' Ko- 68, High street, s
(Price one dollar.)
THIS plan is a 6 inche« square,' and has been en
graved by one of the firft artiftc in the city, from a late
and accurate survey. Purchasers are entitled to a pam- j
)f 4 i phlet with each plan, giving " some account of the
city, its population, trade, government, Ac.
July 19 tu&ftf
ft __ —————— "
iw. Letters Patent,
Granted to the Subscriber, for the Cure of
Incurvations and Diflortions of the Spine,
'ill be By an improvement in Stays and an Apparatus. i
about thing has been studied to render thi- applica
rback, t|on f a f r ea fy j effedual, and gererally ufeful, and -
that if ftecclfary, it may be accompanied with any other j
mode. '
Thc fuceefs of the Patentee in the cure of distortions, .
from Incurvations of the Spine, the Wry Neck, &c. in (
this city and in different parts of the United States, under
the infpe&ion of eminent physicians, when every other ,
mode had.failed, will, it is hoped, afford the public fuf- (
ficient testimony of the utility of this application. I
N B. He makes an apparatus for restoring distorted |
feet in children —Bandages in general—-TrufTusof various j
deicriptions, and one in particular on a plan entirely new, j
. which in some cases is found to aafwrr better than any
other. i
He returns thanks to those medical gentlemen in differ
ent parts of the United States who have honored him -with
their patronage and cenfidence.
The I.adics are rcfpe&fully informed, that he has
an elegant assortment of St~ys and Corlets for Sale, which
n. will be altered if necessary, free of extra charge.
iarf. LUNDIN M-KECHNIE,
Aug. 16 MW3W No. 17 Dock-street.
A Book-Keeper,
OR Clerk's place is wanted tyr aperfon properly qnali
fisd, and whose ch.ira6tcr will be found uncxccption
I, able. (Apply to the Printer.
reet. Aug. n
George Dobson,
BF.GS leave to inform the Score Ivccpers in Town and
Country, that he has rcrftoved from Market-Street to.
N°* 25, south Third-ftrfeet,
v/here he is opening a Large and Elegant Assortment of the
undermentioned articles—viz.
Superfine London Clo*hs and Kerfeytnere?,
YorkHiire fccood I>o. Do.
Elastic do. do.
MixM and Blue Coatings
Flannells, &.r. t
JMancbcfte) Printed CaWcoes, r,
London Ghi-s?z dftio f
Bi'ueand ditto Furnitures,
India ditto,
Loog Clofchi, Ooflaes, Baffas, Batti)las&
*4-4 5-8 *5-4 & 6-4 Superfine India Book Mlifiins,
4-4 and q-B India BoOse Handkefchiefs,
4-4 and 9-8 Scotch ditto,
4-4 & 6-4 plain do Muslins,
4-4 & 6-4 BTitifh Jaconets,
6-4 Biitilh Checks and Stripes,
4-4 India do. do, do.
4-4 ditto Chilloes, Madras Handkerchiefs. &c.
A large affoitment qf figur'd a,id plain Mu flint ts,
Ouilttngs, Dimities, and. Striped Nankeens,
Fancy Waiftcoatings,
Ginghams ot the firft Quality, fubje& to Drawback,
India Nankeens,
Men's White and coloured Silk (lockings.
May 9
For Sale,
A LARGE ELE9ANT AND WELL FINISHED
Three-story Brick House,
(The late reftdence of General Waltbr Stewart)
WITH a LOT of GROUND thereunto belonging,
the weft fide of Third-street, near Union-street
containing in front 32 feet, and in depth too' fecit, to an
alley leading into Union-flreet. The house is 32 feet Crone
ahd 50 feet deep ; the several rooms contained in it are
large, commodious, and completely finifhed; the two firft
{lories are .each- 13 feet high; there are io mahogany
nyTfsii7a'n al; J ..
ar, which 15 spacious and convenient, and finifhed with an
x -oven, stew-holes and pantries, a fervaots* hall and large
wine-ccllar adjoining the kitchen, in front of which i*. an
area in which there is a pump The yard is vaulted.
Communicating with the said building is a neat three-story
* brick house, on the north fide of Union-street, contain
ing 30 feejt front by 20 feet deep; the lower part of which
is at present occupied as a compting-houfe, and the upper
part divided into well-fini(hed large chambers. This house
may at a small expense be converted into a convenient
dwelling : The street door is very handsome, and the front
and back have Venetian window-shutters. Adjoining the
last house, upon the lot belonging to the firft, are creeled
bathing-rooms, &c. There arc likewifc very good coach
house and ilables finilhed equal (or nearly so) with any in
the city, on a lot containing on Union street* 30 feet, una
in depth ou the weft fide o< said alldy 52 feet. There are
good cellars unde. the whole of the buildings, and a wine
room over part of theftable, with a hay-Joftover tlie re
mainder. For further particulars enquire of
EDWARD BONSaLL & Co.
At their Office No. 64 Dock-street. between Walnut & Pear
t, eo streets.
t, ,6th month 24th, 1796,
it PROPOSALS,
~ William Cobbett, opposite Christ Church, Pkila
f" delphi.i, for publishing by fubfeription,
t Ihe History of Jacobinism;
Jl Its-TJRIMES, CRUELTIES .»ml PERFIDSTS,
COMPRISING an Inquiry into the manner of diflemi
n."iting, under the appearance of Philosophy and
Virtuj, principles which are equally subversive of Or
per, Virtue, Religion, Liberty and Happiness.
By WILLIAM PLAYFAIR,
Author of the Commercial and Political Atlas, &c.
With an Appendix,
"is, 81~ PETER PORCU PIN £,
ins Shewing the close connexion which has c#er subsisted
,nd between the Jacobins at Paris and the Democrats in the
jer United States of America.
iile CONDITIONS.
vile I. This .new, entertaining and iirftruflive work, which
ter is at once a history of Jacobinism and a complete hillnry
of tl c French revolution down to the end of 1795, will
cenfiil of two volumes, odlavb, each containing, about
300 pages. 'It frail be well printed, on a new type and ,
fine paper.
;iv " 11. The price of each volume, bound in boards, will be
111 One Dollar and a Quarter, paid for on delivery ; and to
non fubferibers, a Dollar and a Half
lir. As soon as a fiifficient number of copies lhall be
' fubferibedfor, the work will bo put to the press, and fin
ilhed as expeditioufly as a ftriiS attention to neatness and
accuracy will admit of.
of • * Subscriptions taken by the publisher, and the prin
cipal Bookfcllers of Philadelphia; Messrs. Spotfwood and
Nancredeof Boston ; Mr. Rivington of New-York ; Mr.
Rice of Baltimore ; Messrs. Pritchard and Davidfon of
Richmond, Virginia; and Mr. Young of Charleston,
South Carolina. Aug. II H eo 3
ute Lottery
Jm - TOLraifingfixthoufand fix hundred and sixty-seven
( i (1 e 1? dollars and fifty cents, by a deduition of fifteen per
cent from the prizes, and not two blauks to a prize, viz.
I Prize of "J 000 dollars is dollars 5000
x 1000 1000
I ' SOQ 500
5 aoo loco
10 100 acoo
99 jo 4950
me t aoo 25 5 000
2000 10 10,000
>lica- 5 Last drawn numbers of 1000 dollar* each, 5000
and ■
nther 1331 Prizes. 44>4J0
4018 Blanks.
:ions,
c. in 6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44.45°
inder By order of the Directors ijf the Society for eftablifh
other mg Ufcful Manufactures, the fuperintendants of the Pat
: fuf- erfon Lottery have requefted\he Managers to off..- the
foregoing S«heme to the public, and have directed them
orted to refund the money to thtajje perfens who have purchased
irioUs [j, the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
new > in this Lottery.
1 any I'he lottery hasa&ually commenced drawing, and will
continue until finilhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
liffer- ma y be seen at the office ot William Blackburn, No. 64
with south Second street, who will give information where tick
ets may be procured. •
e has Dated this 17th day of June, *796.
fvhich J. A* CUM Ail AC, }
J ACQS P.. HARDENBERG, > Managers.
•JONATHAN RHJiA, J
:et- June 18 ec>
CABLES,
qnali- Fiona 16 to 9 i inches, for faje by
P t,on jercmiah Warder,
tf 11 5 No i» north Tluid-ftreet.rr -»—'•—■ ——^——----——- -
G AZETTE of the UNITED STATES.
PHILADELPHIA:
THURSDAY EVENING) AUGUST 18.
No. 45 south 3d street, Philadelphia,
' 16th Anguft 179 6
Sir, At a meeting of the Committee of the Phila
delphia Society for the information and afEftanct of
persons emigrating from foreign countries, heid 4aft
night, it was uuanimoufly rcfolved " That the thanks
of the Society b« given to capt. M'Collom of the (hip
Farmer, lately from Lond«n, for his humane treatment
of the paflengers on board his vessel."
' They find themselves happy in thus bearing testimo
ny a second time to a conduit so encouraging to future
, Emigrants in their hazarding the perils of a paflage>to
a country large enough to receive and fruitful enough
to fuftam countless millions. lam, fir, with the great
est refpedl, your humble servant, -
JOHN BROWNE, Sec'ry.
Capt.M'Collom.
To -which the captain returned the following answer.
Sir, With lingular fatisfaAion I acknowledge the
receipt of To flattering an address from a society found
ed on the malt liberal principles, and can assure you
my exertions fhalf never be wanting, as well from a
fenfc of duty as inclination, to render the situation of
all persons emigrating to ray native country, and un
der my immediate care, as comfortable as poflible.
I am, fir, with die highest refpedl, your obedient
fcrvant, JOHN M'COLLOM.
Mr, John Browne, No. 45 south 3d-ftreet, Philad.
CAZETTE OT THE VUITBD STATES MARlttt MSTI
if a 14. ADt L * h'i A, AuguJl 18.
ARRIVED.
Ship Active, Blair, TenerifFe 37
Brig Ruby, Jones, » Bourdeaux 48
Guftavus Adolphus, Ramfre, Gibraltar 70
lfabella and Ann, Hawkins, P. au Prince 17
Sloop Harriet, Powell, '4
Sally, Alkn, do. 5
. CLEARED.
Brig Welcome Return, Labie, Savannah
Sloop Flora, Cunningham, * N. York
Harriet, Navarro, do.
Dolphin, Folger Nantueket
Letters by the Rebecca, Hughes from this port
were recefved in London, June 9—ihofe by the
Ships Baecliusand Two Friends—June 8.
The Caroline Wilton, was bound from London
to Liverpool. The Ships Eagle and Rebecca were
advertised to fail for Philadelphia.
The fliip Harmony, Kollock, got up to London
( with the greater part of her cargo damaged. Ship
Edward, Howlind of this port from North Caroli-'
is arrived at Liverpool, and the Diana, Pile, at
Hamburgh.
The (hips Echo, Boys, and Margaret, Mease,
were to fail for Philadelphia, from Bordeaux, 10
days after Capt. Jones. The ship Experiment was
there unloading.
Arrived at the Fort.
Ship Greyhound, Green, Barbadoes
Brig Minerva, Long, Cadi*
Lavinia, Charnock, -St. Kitts
Brig Eliza, Yard (ley, arrived at Hamburgh,
from Philadelphia, June 5. '
Arrivals at New-Tork.—AuguJl 17.
Ship Adelaide,' . , Webb, London
Brig Betsey, * ' Leader, St. Bartholomew's
Schooner Pomona, Peek, Cape Francois
Cap fain Webb, of the Jhip Adelaide, J'poke on the ljl
AuguJl, at 1 P. M. a brig from Lijbon, bound so Bof
tort, out $ti days, lat. 42, »o, long. 57, 00.
AuguJl 7, at half pajl 7, A. M. in lat. 44, io,fpoke
Jhip Hebe, of Baltimore, from Artifterdum, with 160
ppjfengtrs on board, 91 days out, Captain, Mate, and
3 Jcatnen had died. The people requejled captain Webb
to fend on board them a man capable of navigating'
their <vej}jl, but this <was refufed them, and an offer
made by capt an IV. to take them in tow, but they would
not consent. She bad up a jury foretopmajt, and her
topsails ivere alt split. They were in no want 0 J pro
•vijions or water.
The Otjego, Morris, from New-York ; Sophia, Wil
ling, from Baltimore ; Major Pinckney T Grice, from
Bengal; and Diana, iPile, from Philadelphia, are ar
rived at Hamburga.
The Ellice, Hervey, from New-York, is arrived at
Pertfmouth.
The Ohio, M'Laugblin, from do. n arrived at
Gncncck, in 24 days. - i
Brig Fix, 19 days from Jamaica, arrived yejltr.day,
spoke on Tuesday Jhip Atlantic, capt. Fawn, from
Gutrnfey bound to Virginia, out 9 weeks, all well. Pro
duce very low.
Vessels lying at Kingjlon when the Fox failed.
Ships—Succefi, Gerton, Philadelphia ; Dominiek
Terry, Hart, do. Eliza, Williams, Norfolk.
Brigs—Seven Brothers, Heron, Philadelphia ;
, Gratitude, Downie, Virginia ; Neptune, Blancharel,
Portland ; George, Glenn, Philadelphia; Gracia, Ha
veat, do. ; Peggy, Wallace, Baltimore »• Nonpareil,
• Reddick, Norfolk ; Democrat, Chapman, do.
Schooners—Return, Harril, New-York ; Cleopatra,
Swam, Baltimore ; Betsey, Taller, New-York.
Sloops*-Lucinda, Bernett, North-Carolina ; Han- '
nab, Lajla'tl, A. Carolina ; Maria, Tomlinfon, New-
Haven.
Arrivals at Baltimore—AuguJl 16.
DAYS.
Ship Ardent, Smith, Jeremie, 12
Swift Packet, , . ditto, 20
Scb. Friendship, Burgess, ditto, 19
PeggT. Goifuch, ditto, 21
Brig Hiram, Carnes, Plymouth, 56
Dorothy Elus Jacob Roelefs,
Cadiz, 112
On Fridsy evening arrived the (hip Anthony
Mangin,„Captain Sanford, days from Bremen,
with paflengers, &c. Capt. Sai>ford informs, that
en the Bth inft. he was boarded by the Prevoyante
in company with tl\c Thetis frigate: by the offi
cers of the Prevoyante he was very unhandsomely
treated ; they broke open his hatches, and a box
of fire arms, which at firft they infilled was for |
the French, and in a very arbitrary manner, de- !
nianded his p tpers ; took Capt. Sandford and two I
paflengers on board the Prevoyante, and likewise !
impreffcd two of his bands, one of them a Mr. :
Higginbothom, belonging to Baltimore, his ship
carpenter, whose prote&ion was not fufficient to
guard him against the insults of those gentlemen.
After detaining the .Anthony Margin about fix
• hours, snd ciufiig her to rn.l-45 miles out of her.
course, they put Capt. Sandford au„ on
'* board, and fuifrred him to depart. (
From the Log Bool: of tin Anthony Mangtn.
June 12. At 4, p. M. fell in with an Enghlh
Iloop of war and a cutter;—was byarded by the
former, after Bring two (hots, politely treated and
not long detained.
June 13. At 9, a. M. saw five large (hips and
two brigs passing to letwaid and fteeiing to the
southward ; from their manoeuvres took them to be
•5 English men of war.
p June 15. Spoke the (hip Atlantic, of New
it York, ffom Guernsey, bound 10 Virginia, out 29
days.
Auguft'lO. Saw a number of vefltls
c up the Bay, and spoke a brig from Liverpool, out
h eleven weeks, bound so: Alexandria,
t- On Saturday arrived the brig Bataria, Captain
„ Huefman, from Bremen, with paflengers, &c.
which placc (he left 16 days before the Anthony
Mangiit. ■ ■■'
r ; e Foreign Intelligence.
I- . —r—
U MADRID, May 12.
a It is certain that our court is in full negeciation
with the French Republic;, for an alliance offenfive
and defenfive. Orders have beengiven for 500 tri
,t coloured flags to be made, which are to float on our
squadrons, instead of the white onts hoiftcd hereto
fore for the French colouts during the government
• of Kings.
The Piince of Peace frequently gives fetes to
the Ambaflador of the French Republic, General
Perignon.* The king is about to prefect to him
a sword richly mounted.
The equipment of our army and navy go on
with aftonilhing activity. The reinforcements paf
l fed to the camp before Gibraltar art copfiderable; j
0 the army which composes it is 49,000 men ilrong. t
0 Our government is also at present occupied (by
7 confrtit of the Pope with the fuppreflieri H
1 . „ ———- — -."0- wmmrrn
PARIS, June «8.
5 Vadier, ei-devant member of the Convtntion, '
who is implicated in the lad conspiracy, Jrrived ,
here last evening, and is put in confinement, He
was brought trom Toulouse to this city is four
;t days.—The distance of Toulouse from Paris is op- '
t wards of five hundred miles.
e J ,,ne W
It is currently reported here this day, that there
n has been a new battle fought on the Rhin?, in
e which we have taken 3000 prisoners from the Auf
trians. ,
n According to a letter from Dinan, of the 20th
Prairial (June 8) the English have made another *
r- attempt upon the coast of Normandy. It is even 1
said, that they have debarked 1800 emigrants, at 1
a fmali distance from Avranche j that the troops j
have approached this point of debarkation, and '
Q ' that already several small but bloody battles had ta- 1
„ kcn place. j
They add, that 011 the 19th Prairial, an Englifti I
fleet, composed ef nine fail of men-of-war of dif- 1
fcrent foi :ces, appeared befote St. Malo, and advan
g ce< l even to the entrance of the road ; next day :
s they moored at a gun (hot distance from Fort La- I
vardc, which defends the entrance of the port on i
' Cancalle fide.
n PARIS, June 12. 1
s Louvit announces in his Journal, La Seniinelle,
s th&t on the 2d of thii month the Engli(h made an 1
0 attempt to surprise the port of Toulon, and that t
- the governor of the place is arrefteci. This piece <
, of intelligence is, however, by mod people, clafTed i
, amongst the many fabrications which have been t
j invented to deceive the public, with i-efpeft to the f
b situation of the South. [
% ' Miraieau's account of Voltaire and Buffon. t
r " VOLTAIRE insulted Bu(Fo n , as he did every
r g reat man 5 1 f»y. all. without excepting one dead 1
or living, except Newton, his favorite, because he r
bad very poorly understood and explained him
. Buffon only answered him by public applause, and
t by Simplicity and modeity, the only true marks of b
• genius and superiority. Ido not believe that there n
can be atiy thing in the world more ridiculous, than n
all that Voltaire has written on natural history ; so fl
f much may ignoranee, and a propensity to satire,
debase even genius : but 1 cannot conceive how h
( the mod infernal envy came to bloflom in the mind ai
1 of so great a man." •
LONDON, May 14. f c
On Saturday night, a fellow pretending to n
be drunk, attacked Lord Melbourne in White- vi
combe-street, by driving his head in his stomach ft
and at the party of the villains comua- ai
nions robbed his Lordfliip of his pocket book, con- g
taming ninety guineas in calhand notes. ai
A clergyman of the diocefs of Chefler, not an e \
years of age, has married 780 couple, baptized ec
3750 children, buried 2850 corpses, read the
church service 6570 times, and preached near
2000 ferment ;to which he adds, the regifterine P
of this immenle labour, the visiting of at lead of
6000 sick persons, and administering 6000 private 01
sacraments ; aud his salary never exceeded col. per w
annum J J *
' E «D? p- a £! erf,om ™ ladc, P hia - March t. 'he
' . r ". Pf'fftl'-y 11 at present in this city, deliver da
ing a series of discourses on the evidences of Chris to
. tianity, which are attended by very numerous and th
gentee! audiences. All ranks of people go to hqjr fe
im. Last Sunday there wete on the next bench ftc
to me, the Vice President of the United States a m
, Judge of the Supreme Court and three Senators th
. and, on the whole, not lefg than half the Congress «
vjere present. It is amusing to observe the rl
• tenances, and hear the remarks of some of hk an
hearers, to whom he has been rcprefenrrvl " r
: oJioos lights £
■ | Tbey venture to come to hear him • and ,1. t j
' j explaining the evid<;nces >' «tn
1 ehnftianity, a manner far superior to l
: have been accnftomed to, and^efenSng' %
ably agamft the attacks rf impiety and inMeluy » t^
''I- J 0 ca r uf " that the Hljr «n Autocratrix fn
1 " d assi g n for her meditated War, ucon W f
den, is the expencefhe has been at in teaching h " t°i
grand daughter the Swedish tongue. S
ier . grievance might be remuvei: :':e refunding
on of the two rubles per lesson wopld be both cheaper
and wiser than making War ; and as 10 the loss of
ah-ufband, hobody knows better than Catharine the
;fh Great, that it is a loss easily fupplieJ, and easily
he forgot ! .
nd Letters from Ma.ichefter Rate, that another not
had taken plaie at the theatre t'nefre, la!l week, in
nd consequence of some officers of the Bth regiment
he of light dragoor.s calling " God save the king,"
be and the towns people refitting it : on Friday even
ing the was renewed by a.party of pri
w- vate soldiers being stationed in the gallery, and cal
-29 ling loudly, between the play and entertainment,
for the fame loyal tune s an opposition again taking
ng place, the soldiers drew their iabres, when several
>ut" persons were wounded, But none daiigerouHy. The
military were of cotfrfe triumphant, the peaceable
lin part of tlie audience immediately retreating.
£C . In the Court of King's Bench on Tuesday, in
nv the cause the King v. Beard, the defendant an at- i
torney in Cornwall, was convi&ed ]
r-* the la(l assizes at Launcefton, before Mr. Justice
Bullfir, on an information for challenging the pro- |
fecutor, Mr. George John, likewise an attorney of
the fame place. It appealed that the defendant j
and prosecutor were both belonging to the military ;
on affofciation of that town, and upon some miftinder- j
lv . e {landing the former called him a poltioon and a
rl " coward, with a view of provoking him to fight a '
ur duel. The jury having found him guilty, he was
l 0" on Tuesday brought tip for judgment, when, after j
nt a suitable exhortation from Juflice Afhurft, in which
he dwelt a good deal on the prevalence and heinoun
nature of the offence, the court ordered the de
. fendant to be imprisoned nine months in the King's
lm Bench prison, and afterwards to find securities for
five years, himfelf in 5001. and two others in 2501.
each.
a " Isabella Williams, a woman genteelly and even
e ' fafhionably dressed, was on Wednesday brought in- (
to the Court of King's Bench to rjceive judg
meot for the Offfence jil T™*
■ " jf twenty men armed with pistols and other
offeufive weapons to attack a party of Custom-house
office!s in Cornwall. Her counsel 'pleaded her tex '
' J in mitigation of punishment, but Mr. Justice As- j
j hurst observed, that such a plea, if fully admitted, j
e would, h: believed, presently transfer the business '
ur of such assaults from male into female hands. She '
P" was fcntenced to be imprisoned twelve months in
the county gaol of Cornwall.
in SAVANNAH, July 26. i
if. Lall Thursday evening a murder was committed t
on a plantation a few miles from this city, by one t
ith John Richinfon, a noted villain' who has long been \
ier a dread to society ; but we have the fatisfa&ion to j
en add, he was immediately apprehended, anil is now j
at in close confinement to wait the termination of
ips justice, and will probably meet the reward justly c
nd due to his crime. The circumstances of this in- 3
;a - hbman a£t, as far as we can learn, are, that Rich- j
infon came to the bouse of a Mr. Grant, a neigh- r
ifli bouring overseer, who, it appears, had previously I
if- laid in a small (lore of liquor for his family's use : 3
n- Richinfon being informed of it, demanded of him i
ay a free accefs_to his ftorec. and- au-Crani'srefufmg, J.
,a- him, he immedietely seized a gun which was (land
on iog by and discharged it at Grant, the contents of t
which entered his head, and he expired immediate- t
ly. The jury brought in their verdict -wilful \
murder. j
h A report fay.?, the Governor of South-Carolina 3
an has received repeated demands for the releafeof the
at two Falls, with threats to lay waste the whole 0
ce city of Charleflon, if not complied with, and they 0
ed immediately relcafed ; and further, that several at- n
en tempts have been made to put these threats in v
be force ; that a house has lately been consumed, and n
fire set to the CufWHouie, but happily ex- t
tinguifhed. '
ry No Northern Mail this week, consequently no h
id Northern Ntw, can be expeded. This irregula- a
ic nty of the Mails is unaccountable.
~ July 28. .
' d r ur°" 'r' 20tl J inft - dicd ' at White Bluff, of a ,<
Df bilious fever, John Houstovn, Esq. a gentle £
re man no less confpiouous for the amenity of his man.
I em,nen, f ° r HiS taltßtS 38 3 latt</er an<l 3 w
, • M-Houftoun, at an early period, distinguished "
iv himfelf m his profeffion, uniting with a ftronij r
d acute judgment and a depth of research, an easy. „
copious and impreflive eloquence. With talents c f
so well adapted for public life, he could not long <
0 remain unsolicited ,0 take a leading parl in the fer I
.- vice of his country: he was accordingly, at dif- or
'' feren . t P er,ods ' to fill the most important °
t- appointments under the Government, or in Con- P
* and f V Ch '/ f Execut ivß; on the Bench; of
and, for a fenes of years, as a member of the Le- f n
9 giflature: in all whicK he acquitted Jiimfdf with
d equal ability and dignity.
C P°" GH KEEPSIE. August io. *
r. Friday last was brought to this town, Matthew
t 8 n °TJ Fr j. n (r chma «' who has broke out " n °
t of Albany gaol five different times in thecourfe of rP
e one year. He came to this place from the nmth
- ward on Tuesday or Wednesday of lail week in a ° n
' g n £r7 h 3 fn ? aU trunk fh
he as different places offered for sale. On Wednef k
- day night the (lore of Mr. Stephen Hoy U 0 f th ; s
own, was broke open, and goods and money to fr!
the amount of 60 or 7 01. stolen therefrom. This c
■ fellow was f cen walking several times by the fcs ,
1 store in the evening before the robberv ij u •
: ««
: »•'
: r
• for the shore and took to ,K. j . made
1 truHk and goods in the c* J 3V the 1
f >»«.. P u, f „f d £41 ri•; s ■
: :
»be held here ii a f cw € ° whldl
* cor
ng We hear a robbery was committed in Hutfon
>er a trunk of (hoes on the 29th nit. We ft 1
of fufpeft Plantain, as It i 8 fai L his tru nk and
he anlwer the defcr.ption of those Holcn.
,ly He broke gaol in Albany about a f„ rtn| -..
since, together with two others by the nam,, -
ot Neilfon and Hoffman. The two lad were unj
in sentence ot imprisonment and Inrd labour for IT '
nt and for either of the three the fheritf o f[ er J „
dollars reward. >
n-
t BY THIS DAV's MAILsT"
!g NEW-YORK, Augufl 17
al Tranquility has been refthred in the city of A mft .
he dam since the arrival of a French garr.fon ther
ile though .tconfifts of only between ,4 and jfcn
and the public anthsntyhas resumed its afe/mi, :
On the 29th of May there w'asagrand fc l
fterdara in honour of the victories of the Fr-nd,
t- taly, at which the minister Noel, the
cd tevenoH, and the Commandant of the Citv ,
ce Each of them made a Ipeech on the occL&ft
dam y " A g-en at rS
We'are afliired that the Grand lurv at ■
last week, ordeied four bills against nerforis off!
■y against the aa emitted «** a % toprZTutt" l
r- in S in ""d Spreading of inficliout drafts in the Cf"
3 nr V s P l d thatthe P r °fecutions will be (}ria} v
a followed up an4examplesmJ.de of those whodifrenJ
" ™Viof peltC< ? th / d ' , e ? ; ° ns ° f Health Ogfctr
er h ° fe V'E'lance for the fafety of the city cannot. I
l f thof*»ffending pass with impunity. '
e- Late st Intelligence, receivedyejlerday
\ by the Jbip Adelaide, Capt. Webb,
7 in 49 days from London.
LONDON, June 20.
;n VWc yesterday received Paris papers up to the
f<! ln, *\ ,ncluflve » whieh contain the particulars
of the afl.on near Altenkirchen, wherein General
e Kleber > .^ llowu, g his firft success, has made
nn,l x™ a—i -«f Colour,,
f e 12 nF cannon, fevtral atnmnnition carts, i
;x P 3rt . f e field e q u, P»ge of the Auftrians, and a
f con.iderable quantity of provision and forage. Ai
10 those papers no mention is made of the armie,
in the Hundtiuck, we must suppose that no itn
portant event has taken place in that quarter, ani
n TV?' Vag " e rC P° rt of * via ° r y obtained by the
Auftrians, wh.ch was last SaturdsY, i**i,h.
out foundation.
. On the fide of Italy, t be only rematkable event
is the Arm.ft.ce granted to the King of Naple,,
d on condition that he /hall pay a military contribu
le tion of 30 millions, an event which will much
n weaken Beaulieu's army, 011 account of the Nea
o pohtan troops bdng obliged to withdraw. This
w Armift.ce is, however, not yet officially announced.
' In the interior the Cl.ouans continue to lay
y down their arms, and the Terrcrifts are kept in >
1- awe by the Executive government, which is daily
1- gaming more authority by its close union with the
1- moderate party in both Councils. The refolutioi.
y by which the denunciation against Drouet hasbeen
admitted, forms another triumph for that party,
n but the proceedings against the MjjfeiMtor,
S—fl-ill carried on -with- great slowness.
I- Ihe Gazette contains the agreeable .information,
if that his Majesty's frigate Dryad, of 36 guns, Lord
A* Bcauclerk, commander, has just brought fnto
</ Plymouth another very fine French frigate, La
1 loferpine, which file captured on Monday last,
n after a sharp aSion of 45 minutes.
° La Proserpine is a frigate well known to fcieral
e of our officers. 1 his frigate, from her superiority
) of failing, has teized our ships.—At the com
mencement of the war, (lie kept five days -just
n without gun.(hot of the Hannibal and Hector, of
74 guns each, under the orders of Captain (now
- Admiral) Colpoys. She had a brulh with the
Venus frigate l'ome time after and got off. If (he
0 has the fame commander he is an officer of great
• abilities.
' Ihe T rompeufe {loop of war, Captain Watson,
has carried into Cork l'Eveillee Freneh brig priva
-1 teer, of fix guns, and 100 men; and wiih her as
Engliih brig her prize, retaken by the Trompeufe
Sir John Warren's fquairon,. which was (poke
1 with on Tuesday last by the Hope lugger, ,hi»
taken a French corvette and two brigs.
Letters from Germany state, that the Archduke
; Charles had ordered the Prince of Winembei^,
• whole corps was not strong enough to make any
1 effe&ual resistance against, the numerous troops dff
tined to attack him, to abandon the bjnks of the
Sieg, and fall back to Altenkirthen : But these
orders not having been executed with fufficicnt
promptitude, fonie detachments of the Prince's
corps were surprised by the-French, but thelofs
of the Auftrians on this occalion, is by no means
so considerable as was stated in the Paris papers.
We have feerr letters from Italy, addreffedto*
gentleman in town, of the firft diftin&ion, which
attribute all the disasters that hare befallen that
country to the mifcondud of the Sardinians. Tbe
invaf.on of the French was a desperate attempt
rendered neeeflary by the utmost want of proviii
ons and. all other articles which prevailed in their
army. If the Piedmontefe had done their duty i«
the battle of Cherafco, Buonaparte would hare
been obliged.to retreat, having no more than two
days provi/ions. This general uas himfelf greatly
aftonilhed at the prompt docility of the King °*
Sardinia in Admitting t<iall (he conditions dictated
by the French, who, would have much lowered
their pretentions, if the Cabinet of Turin had in
filled on its being done. Thus, in that unfortunate
country, the weaknefi of a sovereign, conwiuni'
cated to his troops, has produced the mod unfor
tunate and extraordinary event in this difafti ol *
war,
f
From the LONDON GAZETTE, June it.
Admiralty Office, June 18.
Dispatches of which the following ste i-opiei,
have been received at this office, by Evan N'epcao,
ECj.
Santa Margaretta, at Sea, June "•
SIR, ■ i,
I have the honour to inform you that on tbe 7'
inft. being in company with his Majesty's (hip nl "
[corn, 18 leagues weft us Stilly, vre difcovere'* a *-wo o'clock in the morning, three fa.l of fhipt d.refl
_^; t a m;le on out le: • vm, as the day opened we corvel
perceived them to be frigates belonging t* the great
Frcc.ch nation, whicfe I communicated to Captain pafiinj
Williams by signal, who immediately made fail to dore c
Sr»n !on his near approach made our hgnal appro
to pass within hail, for the pm pose of giving htm tardec
,'r formation of the enemies force. Ihe ftatemeiit
of their superiority encouraged him in his ea 8" '
nurfuit, having said that he would attack the fcrgeft 'roa
{hi- and defivirg me to engage the next in (Irength. the pi
Tbl's noble example inspired every person with con- "P 1
opponent ; but the enemy, determined toeva J e * n t g
action, (leered awajMarge under a press of Uil,
fmalletl {hip at the fame time making off to wind P>
• S A. o'clock, by oorfupe"* JV
or faille, « within «»• f f „„ f „ c
mv • hut as they appeared to cUfe, tor t.,e mistaal
Support of each other, and the Unicorn being frme wmd
diPance aftcrn, 1 judged i: prudent to postpone our mg _
ifik"n»'"*r d <°rv it
the attention of the French commodore. At this .
time the enemy commenced a tire from their (tern ie j
chace euns. At one o'clock, having appioachet. * r
them within three quarters of a mile, wc fired our we u
bow funs, .vhenever a fevou.able opportunity pre- and v
r,nt«-d itfelf, the enemy at the fame time yawing to «!e «
Sar« their broad (ides. At two o'clock, the wind
Unicorn being on our weathc-beam, we made (ail, pew
WnJ-pa running fight, till a quarter pad four wh.s
o'clock, when the fternmolt (hip finding it impoffi- 'her
ble to escape, put his helm a port, and endeavoured whei
to rake us ; but beiug fortunately baffled in this ef- 'tied
fort, afforded us an opportunity of placing ourselves tago
abrealt of him, within pistol (hot, when a quick and clole
well dire£ted fire compelled him to surrender to his grea
majesty's (hip in less than 20 minutes. She proved whe:
to be the Thames Commanded by Citoyen Fraden, the
' mounting 36 guns and 306 men. The ship which haul
the Unicorn continued in chafe of is La Tribune, our
of 40 guns, and 320 men, bearing the broad pen- P r ev
dant, Citoyen Moulfon, Commander of a division ; and
the other "va*2c off to »vin<3 w~ai<J> i# La Lc
gere of 24 guns and 180 men. lam glad to ob- ed t
serve that our loss is very disproportionate to the an e
Snemy, having only two seamen killed, and the com
boatswain and two feamjn wounded ; and hei's 32 ther
killeo and 15 wounded, and many of the latter have led 1
since died. . l " b
|t is with extreme pleasure that I seek the pre- Mo
sent opportunity of teftifying my gratitude to the 4 s !
officers and (hip's company for their a&ivc zeal and deci
steady unanimity at all times and in all fit nations, nad
but more particularly in the capture of the Thames, adh
on which occafiou their courage and examplary and
conduit is worthy of the greatefl praise. The r«a
diuefs of Mr. Harrifon, the firlt lieutenant, and met
his prompt execution of my orders, did essentially l» r £
facilitate our fuccefa. It is my sincere wish to par- bro
ticularize each individual, but where general merit
* claims the greatest approbation, to difctiminate be- the
comes a difficult talk. In addition to the officers '«'<
and.ship's company, may I alio be permitted to 'he
beg you will offer to the cunfideiztion of the Ad- div
miralty the meritorious conduct of Captain Joseph hfti
Bullen, a Matter and Commander in the Navy; la J
fervinf* in the S*nta Margaretta, a« a volunteer by rit
permission from Lord Spencer : his desire' to have att.
some active employment induceo me to beg he fen
would assist in tht management of the main deck cor
guns, as I well knew that his long services and ap for
proved courage in various fituatione would be a of
proper example to the younger part of the (hip's jii '
company. I have the honor to be, Sir, • »efi
Your molt obedient humble servant, fr«
• T.B.MARTIN. Sa
Vice-Admiral Kingfmill, &a. . ' ■ e'^
Copy of a letter from Captain Williams, of his f«|
Majesty's (hip Unicorn l to Vice-Admiral Kings- ha
mill, dated Unicom, at Sea, June 10, 1796. of
Holy Head, E. S. E. dift. 8 leagues. ch
Sin, P r
1 HAVE thehonor to lay before you a narra- nv
tive of the proceedings of the squadron under my m
command since my departure trom Co*k on the lo!
19th ult. On the following day, in confequenre co
of my having received intelligence of the enemy's th
privateers being on the coast, to the northward of
Cape Clear, I dispatched his majesty's sloop Hazard, bt
with orders to Lieut. Paiker, her commander, to cc
cruize between the Cape and the mouth of the li<
Shannon, while I, for the mora effedtual protec- at
tion of our trade, cruized with the Santa/ Marga- r<
retta in the vicinity of Cape Clear. I had the fa- tl
y'jfadtion a few days afterwards to learn that rhe ft
Hazard had retaken two prizes, and had ichaced a
the privateer off the coast that captured them, after si
a narrow escape from being taken. On the 11 th p
' inft. having met with other (hips of the lrifh lta o
tion, I Concluded upon mak'ing a circuit on the ai
otifer limitß of my station, accompanied by the al
Santa Margaretta, and at dawn of day on the Bth y
inft. Scilly bearing E. half S. 17 leagues, we dif- n
colored three (hips of war 011 our lee-beam, distant a
two or three miles, to which we immediately gave C
chace, and soon afterwards perceived them to edge
away, and that they were eneniy's (hips, two sri- C
gates and a large (hip corvette. At 9, A M. they
formed themselves into a close bow and quarter lire,
and continued to run from us in that position, the
large (I (hip under easy fail, for the support of his
squadron. In this situation we approached them 1
very fact, and muftiiave fpeedil/ brought them to b
aflion.—l therefore made the signal to form f r si
battle, the Marga'etta being at this time ahead of a
the Unicorn, and at the fame time direfied< her by d
signal to come to learn from Captain F
Martin his opinion of the enemy's fo-ee, who in ft
formed me, that the largest ship 38 gun sri- F
gate, the Thames, and a corvette. ' I ordered Cap- 4
tain Martin to attack the Thames, acquainting him b
with my intention to fight'the large ship with the it
Unicorn. On our nearer approach, the corvette, I
which detained the o'her (hips, gradually hauled si
out to windward, and passed our weather-beam in u
long gun-(hot, fleering afterwards the fame course e
as the other (hips, and with the intention, I then n
imagined, to be in to give support to ei- a
tner of her friends, eventually molt needing it.
At !, P. M. the two frigates hoilled French co- 7
lours, th: Jargeft ship a commodore's pendant, and d
at the fame moment eommenced a quick and well
♦
•
directed n fir» on us with their flern chacti. The
corvette at this time hauled more up, and to my
great astonishment, brought to, to board a sloop
passing ui on the contrary tack. As the cotnmo- j
dore continued to wait for the Thames, we thereby -V ont
approached them both, bat were cc-nfiderably ry
carded by the effefls of their (hot. At 4, P. the
Themes being the fternmoft, bore round up, to a- .J ns
void the fire from the Unicorn, and to pour a r rum
broadlide into the Marga?etta's bow, when 1 had 'j
the pleasure to fee Captain Martin mar.oeuvre his
(hip with the greatest jndgment, and with the ut- Jl
most gallantry he laid himfelf close along fide his morf
opponent. The ftiperior and well direfled fire from
the Santa Margaretta, marked the discipline of his
ship, and soon put the Thames into his poffeflion.
The commodore, on feting his companion fall,
m«dc all fail, and by a fuddefi and judicious, tho'
unfuccefsful rnancsuvre, endeavored to gain the
wind of the Unicorn. We.were at this"time cha* .
ing him toward the entrance of the Irifn channel, (
and soon after passed clpf; to the Talker Kork.
The parity of failing in the two ships, aided by
the judgment of the enemy's commander, kept us (
at running fight for ten hours, during which period
■ we were much annoyed in our fails and rigging,
. j and were for fpme time unluckily deprived of the
, ! use of our main topsail ; but on its falling less
: wind, afier dark, we were enabled to use our fu-
, I pernumerary flying fails, royal fteeiing fails, &«. ;
r whish, by (low degrees, brought us so near his wea
tlier quarter, as to take the wind from his fails;
1" when, at half past ten at night, after having pur-
. sued 210 miles, (he shot up along fide of our an
s tagomft, gave him three cheers, and commenced . ( t(
J clife ivftion, which'* jntinued in that position with
3 great impe'tuoficy on both fides for 35 minutes ;
J when, 011 clearing up of the smoke, I obfeived that
, the enemy had dropt on oor quarter, was close
h hauled, attempting by a malterly manoeuvre to cross
■ ( our (tern and gain the wind. This was happily
1! prevented, by our instantly throwing all a back,
. and, giving the (hip strong (tern way, by which we
palled his bow, regaining our tituation, ~md renew
ed the a'tack. The effeas of our fire soon put
,e an end to all manoeuvre, for the enemy's ship was
, e completely dismantled, her fire ceased, and all fur-
2 ther resistance appearing to be ineffe&ual, they cal-
,e led to us they had surrendered. The /hip proves 1
to be La Tribune, commanded by commodorc John
e . MotiHon, mounting 44 guns, thpug'n pierccd for
, e 48; on the main deck 26 twelves, on the quarter-
id deck and forecaftle 15 long fixes, and 321b. carro-
s nades ; had on board at the commencement ot the
/, adtion 337 men, 47 of whom are killed, 13 badly,
ry and 2 {lightly wounded.
a _ The ship is quite new, launched since the com-
id mencement of the war, fails extremely fail, is of
ly large dimensions, being on the gun deck two feet
ir . broader and 13 feetlonger than the Unicorn. Com
rit modore Moulfon, who lam forrry to add is aino g
, e _ the wounded, is bf birth an American, but has
■ r3 feiVed sixteen years iu the French Navy, and during
to the present war has always had the command of a
d. division. The squadron late under his orders, cod-
oh fifting of la Tribune, la Proserpine, la Thames, and
.y- la Legere of 20 nine pounders \ la Proserpine fepa-
by rated the preceding evening in a fog. I will not
ve attempt to find-words to imi\»mj iu yoa, (ir, tlic
he sense 1 feel of the conduit of the officers and (hip's
ck company under piy command ; for if it was pofli'olc
,p. for me to fay any thing that could add o the glory
a of British seamen, I have ample field for so doing |
p's in the situation 1 held this day. Indeed nothing
less than the confidence of the most gallant support 1
from them, and the high opinion I entertain of the
Santa'Margaretta, our feebnd, could induce me to
rilk an adtion witlj a force apparently so much our
his superior; and while I congratulate myfelf upon the v
gf. happy effedts of their valour ui the capture of two v
. of the enemy's frigates that have done so much mis- F
chief to our commerce during the war,, and on the
present cruize were likely to do so much more, you
-ra- may easily conceive what my feelings are, when 1
my inform you, fir, this service is obtained without the
the loss of one of jhe brave men in the ship under my
nee command ; my happi»efs will be complete if I find
iy's the Margaretta has been equally fortunate,
j*of In justice to the officers of the Unicorn, I must '
ard, beg of vou to recommend to the notice of my lords '
to commissioners of the admiralty, my firft and second 1
the lieutenants, Messrs. Palmer and Taylor, Mr. Quayle ]
tec- and Heatenant Hart of the marines Iliad great
rga- reason to regret tb&abfence of Mr. Carpenter, the '
|*3- third lieutenant, of two mates, and some of my bed 1
the seamen, who were the evening before put on boaid
iced a valuable (hip from from Surinam ; but the able af
ifter fiftance 1 (hould have derivej from lieutenant Car
ith penter, I was made to feel the less by the exertion
fta of Mr. Collier the purser, who voluntarily offered
the and undertook to supply his place to the bed of his
the abilities, and whose name I beg you to include in
Bth your recommendations 10 their lordships. We are
dif- now using our utmolt exertions to put the Unieorn
lant and hei shattered prize in acondidion to proceed to
jave Cork. I have the honor to be, Bcc. &c.
r dge THOS. WILLIAMS
fri- Copy of a letter from Lord Amelius Beauclerk,
they Captain ofhis majesty's (hip Dryad, Plymouth
line, Sound, June 16, 1796, to Mr. Nepean.
the SIR,
his Please to inform their Lordlhips, that, oa the
hem i 3: h inft. at one A. M. Cape Clear bearing Weft
ito by NoHh, distance 12 leagues, we discovered a
f r small fail towards us from the Southward, but on
dos nearing us, hauled her wind and tacked. 1 imme
rby diately chaced, and came along fide of her at nine
itain P. M. when, after a dose aflion of 45 minutes, (he
in fti uck ; and proves to be the National frigate La
sri- Proserpine, mounting 26 18 pounders, 12 nine, and
-ap 434 pound carronades, with 348 men, commanoed
him by citizen failed fiom Bieft the 6th i ft.
the in company with La Tribune, I hames, and La
ctte, Legere coivstte ; had not taken any thing.- I
u]ed feel myfelf much indebted to the officers and men
n in tinder my command, for their Ilea 'y and spirited
mrfe exertions outing the a£tion.l I paiticularly rec®m
then mend the senior officer, Lieutenant King, i.s truly
1 ei- eeferving their Lordships' notice. It is with plta
fure I add, that our killed confided only of 2 and
j co- 7 wounded, La Proserpine, 30 killed, and 45 woun
and ded. 'I have the honour to be Sit, &?.
we j) AM. BEAUCLERK.
Philadelphia, f'
THURSDAY EVENING, August iS. left
Yeflcrday arrived here the brig Ruly, iapt. Lloyd a j
-Jones, in 48 days from Bourdeaux. Although the (
Ruly failed from that place in company -with the Dif
patch, arrived at Neon-fork, yet by the \xtraorditiay
pains taisn by capt. Jones to procure the latest papers j j
from P'iris, ive are provided with the Moniteur, and o^'^j
| L'Eclair to the 2 2,7 of June, two days later than j ;
the papers brought by that vejfel, and from which <we
puHiihcd the news in our POSTSCRlPTyejlerday an j (
morning. The f allowing very important intelligence un( j a
1 was translated for tbe American Daily Advertiser.
BRUSSELS, 28 Prairial (June 17.) „
Wc present the following detail of news from the
J borders of tbe Rhine. The army commaaded by j
Kit bet is beyond the Lahn, where he has received
' a retoforcemest of three divisions from the army of
Jourdan. This reinforcement amounts to about
' 26,000 mt 11, besides several regiments •of cavalry, t
dragoons, infantry and hufF*rs, Thefc reinforce- ~
merits were necessary, because the Aufltians have,
j at this moment, near Frankfort a considerable ar " !
my which has been increafedby troops from the. j^ a[
' coips commanded by Arch-duke Charles. The j ~
- 1 " French and Austrian armies abandon, by degrees, j v „
3 the left bank to pass to the right, where matters '
are expected to have a fetious issue. Jourdan will j ( j )a[
' be in prrfon with'the army which is near the Lahn,
'* and will leave to Gen. Marceau the command of a
' corps of fcbfervation on the borders of the Nahe 5 j^ n(
r " tbis corps is destined principally to prevent the ene- „
my from making an attempt, during his absence Q g|
, into the Hundfruck. The head quarters oflhe ar-
' my' of the Sambre and Meufe, departed on the 24th
' ' from Munfter-Mainfield, to Neuwied, where the
mod part of she military administrations were al-
r ready. att .
, Since the bloody affairs of the 4th, sth and 6th j
IJ of this month, on the right bank of the Rhine, there
' have been no decisive engagements ; but every day ,
VC the patroles of cavalry have fkirmifiies, in which
the nre various. This fampui Aottrif"
Ut cavalry which passes for the firft of Europe,
" ord
not an urvtiuth, has often been beaten by an equal
V forc<of Republicans. If thefuccefs of the F»ench
1 troops, however, has been rapid on the right bank
18 of the Rhine, it mult be acknowledged they have
!ln coll some flood. The towns of Cologne, Bonn, eft .
and Andernach are fi'led with wounded. They
:f " have carried them in great numbers into the villages
,°" situated betwixt the MeJfeand the Rhirjp.
I e BRUSSELS, 30th Prairial, June 19.
-' ,Ths whole ot the army commanded by Gen. Jour- cq
dan, has quitted the to pais the Rhine,
""r and carry the theatre of war to the right bank of
° ihe'river. It is'on this account that the archduke
" et Charles has removed his army to cover Frankfort.
m " There arc no Austrian troops to covcr Mayence on )f
.f tljis fide; the French have only left some fmal
I? ' S polls on the point-, that rhey might carry all their
f " R orces to the right bank. Tfie army of Jourdan is
emcamptd on this fide of the Lahn, and that of the
30 . Auftrians is on the other. In this Sate of things,
it cannot be long before we hear of a general battle. cc
All appearances are in faver,of the French army aj
",° c Every dciv ismarked by petty combats, theadvan
' , taee of which is fome'times on the one fide and lame
ip's .» , ar
', 1 inn's on the o a r.
General BouruoOville, accompanied by most of j
the- oft] ers of his Etat-Major, has been for some
lrig r days pail at DufleldorfF, one par.t of the army which
fee commanded in the United Provinces, is on its
the fromt '- e frontiers of Holland to take a po-
, fition in the neighbourhood of Cleves, Zurich,
' ° Reiiiberg <ind Meurs. This army will Join the left p
wing of the army of the Sambre and Meufe, and
will concert its operations with it. This movement j
proves that there is no longer doubt with lefpeft to
the intentions of the king of Prufiia.
o " PARIS (2d Meffidor) June 21. g|
The reports of peace so generally spread, and g]
" even mentioned in tbe Council itfelf, have all ot a
16 sudden ceased. Were they without fonndation ?
Wi think they were not ; wc perfitt in believing
. " that there has been a question of armistice for fe*e-
ral days past in agitation; that a courier carae to
" U , ask it in the name of the Emperor ; that the Di- j t
redory have deliberated upon it ; but that they
°" ] will not listen \o any preliminary conditions, except
■ 3y 6 Mfyence and Manheim, the keys «f Germany, are o
T ? t -given inttftheir hand, left the definitive negociations
should not be\agreeable to their wifhe*. Whate
-1 vcr were the conditions demanded of the Emperor,
we are perfvaded he will not fail to repent of hav-
Car- in ? re f"f e(J ,hrm ' The rea^on of il is
• a '" is dispirited ; every day annousceshim a £re(h
misfortune. The enthufisfm of victory is amongst 1
fhis troops; this multiplies an hundred fold their f
I in strength, aad we are pro ml fed prodigies of success.
f The famous de Letang, denounced as chief
of the counter-revolutionary movements which have
■d to a ß' tateiJ man T P ar " ot t,le South, has been judg- j
ed at Avigr.op, and shot on the 24th Prairial.
The general quarters of the army of the Sam
bre and Meufe is at present at Neuwied ; it has
ouih been movijd t0 , '» l P l,ce f lncc J 00 "'* 11 '"j l * P afred
the Rhine with his army in four (trong columns.
The fortrtfs of Ehrenbreitftein is furr'ounded,
( | le but at a diflance, and out cf the reach of cannon.
e{ j The Auftrians have some troops encamped under
ed the cannon of the place. The garrison is about ;
t 3,000 loen strong :it is of the regiment
of "Manfredni, and of some detachments of cbaf- 1
nine feurs, with some troops of the Empire. Ehren- -
i' llie is one of the molt impregnable fortrefles
,'L a )n Europe. It is hewn out of a rock ; its fortifi
ard caiions are cannon and bomb proof, lifing to a ,
nded P ea ' t ' prodigious height. The siege will ctr
:,(i tainly belong and murderous. . 1
I 3d Meffidor (June 22.)
r j The last military events on the Rhine have not
men cen fuccefsful arid happy as these which pre
rltet j ceded them, at least the success has been divided,
com- as following pieces, which are official, will
truly ft™— ' ■ V
pita- ARMY of ths RHINE and MOSELLE.
> and " Head-Quarters, Neufladt,
»oun- " 27th Prairial.
"By my letter of the 25th of this month, 1
I\. made known ti> you my inuntion of Rttacking Gen.
i vs.
:}» i •
. > I NJr *'
WTurtnfcr, between Frankenhal and tlie Rebut;
hia front was covered by a swampy catial, and his
left by the Rebach. The enemy had augmented
the force of this excellent position, fe>y barricade*
all along the river, whico was inundated to about
150 or 200 fathoms.
" The bravery of the army and the good con
daft of the chiefs and the general officers vanquifti
ed, in a (ho't time, all these nearly insurmountable
obfVacles. The troops up to the arm-pita in water,
and under the ftiarpeft fire of artillery and mufquet
ry, charged the enemy with the greateit courage,
and carried all the Works which defended thel'c in
undations. All who were not killed in the en
trenchments," were taken in the greatest disorder.
" The numerous cavalry of the enemy no*
prevent our infantry from pursuing them thiough
the immense plain which fepaiated u« from Man
. heim, and we were obliged to conftruft a number
j of bridges for the padige of out cavalry i and to
I effift the driving of the enemy into their entrench
! Ed camp.
" The affair was a capital marcetivre of cavalry
' and light artillery, and we chafed them . ont posi
tion to position, until we came under the lire of
1 Manheim. We have occupied in the Evening the
' positions which the enemy had loft*
' ! " The loss of the enemy is very considerable in
j killed and wounded ; I reckon the number not lef*
1 than 6or 700 msn. The time neceflary for con
' ftrufting bridges for the paflsge of our cavalry,
* prevented us from making a great number of pri
' foners.
" The centve*of the army Under the orders of
e General DcfTaix, has attacked the Rebut and Neu
hofen, Holhot, Dauverftadt, and the woods of Shif
ferlladt and Mutteftadt. These attacks were di
f reftad by Generals Del mas" and Beaiipviy. The
" left wing under the orders of General S. Cyr, ha*
attacked Holtzhof, and would attack Frankenthal
—it was directed by the general of division Du
hem.
"I cannot pass too great eulogies on-the bravery
of the whole array, aitd on the talents ps the chiefs
who have diverted all these attacks; the greatett
order.andthe most exact precififtn aflured tln.tr suc
cess ; -which has met with np inttance/of the leaflt
check. The chief Etat Major will give you an
account of the ntitrber and state of the prisoners,
C when it (hall be received at the head quarters. I
estimate them at 150 or 200 men.
y (Signed) " " MOREAU."
ca ARMY of SAMBREjmd MEUSE.
" Head Quartos at Montabauer, 29 Prairia!.
" What 1 had the honour to predict to you is
come to pass. The enemy, after having drawn al- .
C ) most the whole of their forces from the left bank of
the Rhine to (lie right, the Archduke having aug
, mented lu's army with some corps from that, of
Wurmfer, was on the Lahn with much more confi.
3 j' derable foice than I could draw together, and pro
fiting by this advantage, having it in his power to
make his movement much more promptly than me,
he has made his way to the Upper Lahn, fp that
c when I would havepafTed the van-guard on the 27th
j £ ' from the fide of Vetzlar, General I.efebvre, who
commanded it, was attacked by a great body of the
atmy. This brave gtneral did not think it his du
»y to re'ire without fighting;, engaged the enemy,
lc " and a serious combat ensued, of which 1 cannot as
yet give you the details. The moment lam in pr>f.
°. (VfGon of them they (hall be forwarded to vou. The
m , c enemy, though four times the strength of that of
' General Leiebvre, has, loft muct Axemen than he.
118 Our loss may amount to 150 or 300 men, killed,
wounded or pi ifoners. The number of the latter
is small, and we have made a coniidetaule number.
Four pieces ps cannon have fallen into the hands of
n tha enemy, which they charged with incredible
ent impetuofify, but which they could not ha.ve seized
to but for their discharges of cafe-ftiot.
" This event would not have prevented me'frpm
, attacking the enemy on the 20th, as the army had
J 1 already received prders, if 1 had not been uiform
j ed that a considerable force on my left had
! n ' borne off. 1 did not then think it my duty to ex
,n% pose the fafety of the army, and I hava ordered a
Ve * retreat. General Kleber is retired upon the Sieg,
wi'hapartof the army, and 1 (hall retire to the
" l " left bank of the Rhine with the other part.
•' I Ihall go to morrow to Coblen(z, from
e P I whence IH| ill fend yciu details, and the difpofiti
are ons I intend making. It is not poiTible for me to
onß write you more at length to-day.
,te - Signed, » JOURDAN."
ror,
iav- * . . ■ ■ ■■ ■ *
i At South-street wharf,
lgft "\T riLL BE LANDED, Friday, 19th inft August,
lf j r VV by snow Mope, from Jamaica, and sloop Sally,
r frorh Port-au-PriacOs
hie 'f 300 Hhds. COFFEE,
iave 70 Jihds. SUGAR.
dg- Also, the cargo of the Siuetlijh brig Gujiaf Adolpht,
enpt. Ramfre, from Gibraltar,
am rft and 4th proof Brandy, in pipes and hhds.
h as Hazle Nuts in sacks
/r.j St. Übes SALT, forfaleby
| « PETER BLIGHT.
led * •^ or Charter,
' The said brig.
ion. v An »
.der j GUSTAF ADOLPHE,
>out 1 A Swede, with a Mediterranean pass,
lent a very fine veiTel, about 200 tons bur
then. Aug. 18.' - Jiweojw
ren- —— "
e(r " Lottery .and Broker's Office,
No. 64, South StCOND STtEKT.
'° a '"PICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 4, for (ale—a
c « r * J[ Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
the late lottery. _
Check Boots kept for examination and r jittering, for
not the City of Walhmgtoß, No. 1, and Pattefon Lotteries
both of which ara now drawing—information where
P r< ; tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
ded, tickctSi A complete lift of all the prizes in the late Naw
viill p 0 rt Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
examination. .
_ The fUbfcriHer solicit» the application ot the public
E. ' and hi, who wish to pure haft or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates. BilU of Exchange or Notes, Koufe», Lands,
&c. or to obtain money on deposit of property
h, 1 Wm. Blackburn.
G«n. Augrfl 18,[.Lands of the United States
Treasury Department,
Augujl 8, 1796.
Public Notice is hereby given,
IN*purfuance of an a& of Congress palled on the 18th
day of May, 1796, entitled " an a6fc providing " for
the sale of the Lands of the United States, in the territory
north-weft of the river Ohio, and above " the mouth
Kentucky river," that the Quarter Townships of* land"
delcribed in the annexed schedule, lying ih the (even rang
es ot townships whieh were furveytd in pursuance of an
ordinance of Congress, passed on the twentieth day of
May, in the year one thousand seven hundred ancl eighty
five, will be exposed for sale at PUBLIC VENDUE, at
the Merchants'Coffee-Houfe in-Philadelphia, on the 4th
day of January next, and thenceforward from day today,
until the tenth day of February ensuing, unless the said
quarter townships lhall be sooner fold, in the manner and
on the tocms and conditions hereinafter mentioned : viz.
1 ft. The said quarter townships shall be fold to the
highest "bidder, but no sale can be made for less than two
dollars per acre of the quantity of land contained in such
quarter township.
2d. The highest bidder as before mentioned, must de
posit a* the time of sale, one twentieth part of the pur
chase money, in the hands of the Treasurer of the United
States, which will be forfeited if a moiety of the sum bicf,
including the said twentieth part, shall not be paid within
thirty days from the time of sale.
3d. Upon payment of a moiety of the purchase-mo
ney in the manner befor-mentioned, the purchaler will
be entitled to one year's credit for the remaining moiety ;
_ and ihafl receive a certificate describing the quarter town
fhippurchafed, and declaring the sum paid on account,
the balance remaining due, the time when such balance
becomes payable, and that the whole Land therein men
tioned will be forfeited, if the said balance is not then
paid ; but if the said balance shall be duly discharged, by
paying the fame to the Treasurer of the United States,
thc.purchafer or his aflignee or other legal representative,
shall be entitled to a patent for the said land, on his pro
ducing to the Secretary of State a receipt for such balance,
endorfedupon the certificate. But if any purchaser shall
make payment of the whole of the purchase-money at the
time when the payment* of the firft moiety is directed to
be made, he will be entitled to a dedu&ion of ten per
centum on the part for which a credit is authorized to be
given ; and his patent shall be immediately issued.
GIVEN tr-y r'-n A. Nt PKil-i rlnlpli.'.! >1. . ,lmj
and year abovementioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
SCHEDULE
Gf Quarter-Townships to be fold at Philadelphia, in pur
suance of the 6th fe&ion of an a& of Congress palled on
the jßth day of May, 1796.
u •
<2
o. ,9> j; c
&a= s 8
« i I „ z 5
■* £ - I I i
<L> C
o 0 c =5
15 4 h «
C/
H
2 South East 5120
"North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
3 5 South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5
120
North Weft 5120
20,480
7 South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
9 South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20.480
11 South East 5120
1 North East 5120
•I South Weft 5120
North Weft
5 120
|[ 20,480
4 4 South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
6 South East j 120
North East 5120 ,
South Weft j 120
North Weft 5120
20,480
8 South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft jiao
20,480
10 South East 5120
» North East; 5120 '
SonthWeft 5120
North Weft 5120
I 20,480
12 South East 5120
North Eaftj 5120
South Wett 5120
North Welt ,5120
20,480
5 3 South East 4602
North East 4654
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
>9»49 6
5 South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft j 120
North Weft 5120
20,480
1 South East 5130
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
NorthWest 5120
20,480
6 9 South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft I 5120
I——— 20,480
I ©*
5.
r 0 5
bC
£ i * e> = £
C -M W O
*• I ii "i«
£S< | «
>7 rt, c .5
C) 2.3
5 11 South East 5 1 io
North East yi2o
South Weft 5120^
North Weft 5120
20,480
13 South East 5120 j
North Eaftsl2o
South Wefl 51 20
North Weft 5120
20,480 J
6 4 South East 4630
North East 4620 , 1
South Weft 5 120 1
North Weft 5120
19,490 ;
6 South E'aft 4730
North East 47 15
Sou'h Weft 5120
North Weft 5120'
19,685
S South East 5120
North East 5120
Souih Weft 5120
NorthWest 5120 |
| 20,480
10 :South Eafl!ji2o
North t
South Weftlj 120
North Weft 5 120
20,480 i
12 South East 512 c j
North East 5 120 a
. - £ -J l>e
North Weft 5 12Q f
20,480 t
14 South East Jl2O
North East j 120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 512b
20,480
7 3 South East .5 120
North East 5 120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5 120 • i t
20,480 1
j South East 5120 *
North EaH 5120
South Weft j(2o
North Weft 5 I 20|
20,480
7 South East j 120
North East 5 120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5 120
20,480
9 South East 5120
North East 5 120
South Weft j 120
North W<rfl ; 120 1
20,480
11 South East j 120 '
North East 5 120
South Weft j 120 ' ,
North Weft 5 120 1
20,480
13 South East 5120 '
North. East 5120 '
South Weft j 120 !
NorthWest 5120
20,480
15 South fiaflji2o
North Eafi 512 a
South Wefl 5 120
NorthWest 5120
20,480
NOTE.
THE quantities o£ Lands in the several townships be
fore mentioned, are excluliVc of the Sections referveri by
the United States. The aggregate quantities in the seVe
ral townships, have been afccrtair.ed by actual survey ; but
the quantities in the quarter tewnfhijA, have been no
other-wife ascertained than by calculation.
Nr.. 134. a
Diftrift of Peonfylvania, to wk.
BE it Remembered that 011 the 23d day of May, in the a
twentieth year of the Independence of the Uni .cd States >
■of America, Francis Shallus, of the said diitri£l huh c
deposited in this office, the title of a book, the right whereof t
he claims as proprietor in the words sol lowing to wit** THE ]
DISAPPOINTMENT, or THE FOftCE Of CREDULI
TY, a new Comic Opera in three a£ls, by Andrew Barton,
Esq. id edition reviled and corrected with large additions by
the author;" •'
" Enchanting gold ! that doll confpireto blind,
" Mans' erring judgment and theraind,
" In search of tnee, the wretched worldling goes,
" Nor dangers fears, tho' fiends of night oppose."
In conformity to the aft of the Congress of the United
• States, entitled "An a£l for the encouragement of learninjr
by securing the copies of maps.char ts and books to the authors
and proprietors of such copies during the times therein men
tioned. „ Samuel CiinwELt, Clk Dift Pcnn.
The abgve Optra will U fublifhcd in the cotrfe of two or three
weeks. July 22 ( l^ t
FOR SALE,
A very Valuable Estate,
pjALLED TOTTENHAM, i n the '
VJ towr.ftrp of Upper Derby, and county of f Delaware
1 rom , Pbiiadi fphia, and half a mile from the
new Western road: containing 230 acres of excellent land
45 of whtch are good watered meadow, 9 o of prime wood- i
land, and the reft, arable of thg firft quality There are 1
on the premifesagjjod two flory brick house, with 4 rooms <
on a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a pump-well '
of excellent water in front; a large frame barn, stables 1
and other convenient buildings ; a smoke-house and stone' !
rprmg-We ; two good apple orchards, and one of peach-'
X Tl if, fields ar , i: aliin clover, except those immediately
I uruler tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advantage
of water tn each of them, which renders it peculiarly con
veiLient for grazing. '
"•'
Tie foregoing is part ©f the estate of Hcob
deceased, and offered for sale by J "arman,
Mordecai Lewis,
oa. 9. eo.J Surviving Executor.
| Philadelphia, WcH-Chc hr, S'i: i (burgh,
Lancafler, Tork and Frederick-town
STAGES.
THE proprietors of the above Stages, return their be ft
thanks to their friends and the public in general, for
the eficoursgeinent received in this line of hufiiiefs, and oeg
leave to inform the public, that they are determined to run
their ftag.es through from' Philadelphia to Lancaster m
one day, commencing on Tuesday, the 14th July mitant,
in the following manner,—via. A Stags will set out on
that day at 4 o'clock in the morning, from the houle of
George Weed, Market street, Philadelphia, and run by
the way oT Wfftcacfter and Strafburgh, arrive in l.ancaf
ter the fame evening, on Friday morning run to Wright s
ferry and exchange passengers with the York and fredej
ick-town flage, return and arrive in Philadelphia on Sat
urday, and on Monday morning following, at t, o doth,
said ttage willjet out from the said Gaorgs Weed's, Phila
delphia, and arrive at Lancaster the fame evening, on
Tuesday morning at 4 o'clack will fit out from the houle
of Mrs'. Edvvards, Lancaster, and arrive in Philadelphia
the fame evening, and will commence again on Thursday
morning following, and continue every week—The price
for each paiTeng'-r from Philadelphia to Lancaster is three
dollars and a half, to York, four dollars and three quar
ters, to Frederick town eight dollars, the like funis for
150 weight baggage,-with the usual-allowance of 14 lb.
gratis to each palTenger, and 5-pence a mi'e for all way
paflengers. J° §4 W
John Reilly,
George Weed.
TAKE NOTICE-,
THAT application will be made,for the renewal of
the following certificates, ilfued by Joseph Nonrfe,
Register of the Treasury, in the name of Roger Gril'
wolfi, Esq. of Norwich, Conn-H* icut—
1 certificate, fix per cent domeltic stock, No. 13,907
—dated the 17th December, 1795, bearing interefl from
the firft day of January, 1791, for 1,597 65- 100 dol
-1 ditto, thre« per cent, domestic flock, No. '10,681
—dated December 16, 1795, bearing intercft from the
firftdayof January, 1791, for 994 30-100 dollars.
I ditto, deferred stock, No. 9,166 —dated the 17th
December, 1795, bearing interest from the firft Jauu
ary, ißpi,jszLdyt ti^"■ nk 1 ■
Saul certificates are supposed to have been loft or j ,
fto'.en in this city fome'tirae in December or Januaiy 1
last.
JOSEPH THOMAS,
N0.59, North Front-ftitet.
Philadelphia, July 31, 1796. d6w.
Washington Canal Lottery,
NO. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorised .
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thbufand, • :
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting ,
a Canal through the City of Walhington, from th Po :
tomacto theEaftern Branch Haruour.
The fpllowing is the SCHEME of No. I. I
Viz -1 Prize of 20,c00 dollars, 30,000 I
I ditto 10,000 10,000
7la(t drawn
Tickets, each j S '°°°- 35,0°0 -
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,000
30 ditto 100 3,000
55 ditto JO 3,750 ;
J750 ditto 13 69,008 ,
To be raised for the Canal, 36,350
' n'.'fl s '. 175,000
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
$<? The Commissioners have taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid ad for the pundtual payment ol 1
the prizes. 1
The drawing of this Lottery will commence, without 1
delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timely '
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after the
drawing is finiflied, (hall be considered as rclinquiflied for
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed j NOTLEi' YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, of D
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW, 1
JAMES BARRY. 1
City of WafliingtOß, Feb. 11. ' j
DUTY ON CARRIAGES. i
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT agreeably to an aft of Congress of the United \
States of America, passed at Philadelphia, the 28th day '
ef Mav, 1796 ; laying duties on Carriages, for the convey
ance of perlons, fcnd repealing the former acts for that pur
pose.—-That there (hall be levied, collected and paid, upon
all carriages for the conveyance of persons, which (half be
kept by or for any person, tor his or her own use, or to let
out to hire, or for the conveying of passengers, the fevcral du.
ties and rates following, to wit.
For Jnd upon every Coach, 15 dols.
upon every Chariot, I 2 dols.
uponevery Poll Chariot, 12 dols; i
upon every Pott Chaise, 12 dols.
upon every Phaeton, with or without top, q dols
upon every Coachee, 9 dols.
upon other Carriages, having panne/ work above,
with blinds, glalfes or curtains, 9 dols.
upon four wheel carriages, having framed polls and
topi with Heel springs, 6 dols.
upon four wheel top Carriages, with wooden or iron
fprmgsorjacks,3 dols. •> '
upon curricles with lops, 3 dols.
upon chaises with tops, 3 dols.
upon chairs with tops, 3 dols".
upon sulkies with tops, 3 dols.
upon other two wheel top ca.'ri: -s, 3 dols.
UP 3doU° wheclcar " a S es > wi[h ileel or iron springs,
For and upon all other two wheel carriages, 2 dols.
upon every four wheel carriage, having framed polls
Th. '° ps r r d T r lhu g u P° n wooden spars, 2 dols.
niliA Pr , Revcnuc of the firft fur «v of the
o t« f i y r\ Wlll attend dai 'y> uotilthe 30th day
C a rrT C , r xf eXt ' for . thc n P" r of receiving the duties on
»f Phis i', u ~7: i n, R tce or Saffafras street, in the City
CouS lrf S"' " thC h ° Uf£ ° f Danid S " C,al ' in
u 0 " /r° M r t 7? m " y ! and at the ho " fc ° f Abraham Du
'r -° unty ° f Bucks; of which a " pe.fons pal
ol fueh Carnages are desired to take notice
Notice is alio given,
tU<X?I ! a |' Cr * Wincs ' and foreign distilled fpi.i
tuoushquors, that licences will be g t a„ted to them ; one li
"fsautTv rrylo? °i\ bufi - Defs <>f reta of Wines, in a
UcXTrL 1 q^ n e tUleSthan 3° g-dlons—and one
quors in lef ' bufinels of retailing Spirituous li-
Hefame X: 'r tV° thc fame a " d
fuck licences. * ° legally authorized to grant
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpeclor of the Revenue of the firft lurvey
Office of Infpeftion'at 6 » I>CBn o' v »nia. '
PtUadelphu, 21ft July, 1J95 ,( ' 3 9
, City cf Washington.
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, N6III
FOR THE IMPROr'ZUF. W OF THE
i FEDERAL CUT.
A magnificent ) 10,000 dollars, Si
> dwelling-house, ) cash jOjpao, ire , 5 5°)00»
1 1 ditto 15,000 & cacti 35,000 40,000
' I ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,0011
' • I ditto 10,000 & cash io,oo-> , 20,000
j 1 ditto 5,000 &, cash 5,000 10,000
„ 1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
1 cash prize of 10,000
2 do. 5,000 each, are, - 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,000
20 do. 5 00 - - 10,000
00 do. 100 - . • 10,000
soo do. 50 10,000
400 do. _ ij . - 10,0 io
1,000 do. »o - 30. cOO
15,000 do. 10 - 1 jO,OOO
16,739. Prizes.
3S,j6i Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity of
Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the 1 xst drawn
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one :
And approved notes, securing payment ineither money
or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be received for
any numbpr not less than 30 tickets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of the pri
vate buildings to be erected in the City of Washington—
Two beautiful designs are already feleyted for the entire
fronts on two of the public squares ; from these prawings
it is proposed to erect two centre and four corner buildings
as soon as poflible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
them, "when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery.
A nett deduction of five per cent, will be made to defray
the necessary expenses of printing, &c. and the surplus
will be made a part of the fund intended for the National
University, to be erected within the city of Washington.
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
fold off.--The money prizes will be payable in thirty days
after it is finith.id ; and any prizes for which fortunate
numbers aie not produced within if,. ■ .1...
drawing is doled, are to be conltdercd as given towdfdi
the fund for the University ; it being determined to fettle
the whole iufmefs in a year from the e itling of the draw
ing, and to take up the bonds giv?n as security.
l'he real securities given for the payment of the Prizes,
are held by the President ana two Dire&ors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued it more than half the a
mount of the lottery.
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointtnent of
the late Commissioners affiftcd in the management of the
Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake this arduous tafc
a second time on behalf of the public ; a fufficient num.
ber of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
friends to a National University and the other federal ob
jeits may continue to favor the difign.
By accounts received from the different parts of the
Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets
have been sent for faje, the public are allured that tin
drawing will fpe'edily commenae, and that the cart arid
caution unavoidably necelfary to insure a fafe disposal of
th« tickets,has rendered the iaor fufpeaGonindifpenfabk.
SAMUEL BLODGET. »
Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; of
James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter Oilman, Boston;
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells,
Cooper's Ferry. eo
FIFTY DOLLARS REWARD.
Sill, Qu«en A nns County in the State of Maryland*
about the fir It of January lafl, a black negro man, named
Sam, about thirty years of age, 5 faet 8 or 9 iuches high,'
has a crooked finger on one hand, and one leg and f ofct
frnaller than the other, somewhat rouild-fiiouldtred, his
cloathing unknown. Any person who will fjcure ©r
bring said fellow home, so that 1 may get him again {Hall
have the above reward with reasonable charges.
WILLIAM JACOBS.
June 4. *iawam.
Diftrift of Pennsylvania: to wit:
BE it remembered, that 011 the jth day of Augufl, in
the twentieth year of the independence of the Unit
ed States of America, W'iluam CoiJSett, of the said
diftricSt, hath depofitcd in this office the title of a book,
the right whereof he claims as' proprietor, in the words
following: to wit.
" The life and adventures of Peter Porcupine ; with a
" full and fair account of all his tranfa&ions:
" being a lure and infallible for all enterpritin?
'* yOung men who wish. to make a fortune by writing
" pamphlets, by Peter Porcupine himfelf.
" Now, you lying varlets, you fliall fee how a plain
" tale will put you down." Shakespeare.
in conformity to tb,ea<sl of the Congress of the United
States, entitled <l an ail for the encouragement of learn
ing, by seCuring the copies of maps, charts and boak«_£o.
thc authors and proprietors,, during *he ununTtJierein
mentioned. Samuel Caldwell.
Clerk of the Difiridt of Pennsylvania.
Aug. 8 1 M 4 W
Nozv Publijhhig by the Printer,
At No. 3, Lsetitia Court, delivering to Subfcrjbers,
and to be had at the different Book-Sto/es in this City*
Berriman & Co's
CHEAP AND ELEGANT EDITION OF
The HOLY BIBLE.
Containing the Old and Naw
Teftements and the Apocrypha, with marginal notes an
erences. An Index; or an account of the
paflagesin the old and new Teftamcnt, pointing to the places
wherein they happened, and to the places of scripture where
in they are recorded.—A Table of Time.—-Tables of scrip
ture measures, weightsand coins ; with an appendix,contaui
ingtbe method of calculating its measures ©f SURF^S E<
hitherto wanting in Treat jes ou this JukjcEl. A Table of OJjues
and Conditions of men.
CONDI TTON S
1. Thefizeof this Edition will be a LARGE FOLIO*
printed on a beautiful new'type, and good paper, made par
ticularly lor it, It will be publilhed in Numbers, nottoc *"
ceed 30, one of which will be delivered weekly to sub cri -
ers, at a quarter of a dollar. Those fubleribers who P rc fr
receiving the work complete, will be attended to by.
the fame on any of the fubfeription papers in rhc Book otc•
in this city. # ...
2. There willbe an advance in the price* on fublcri 5
after the#r ft of August next.
3 In the courfeof the Work willbe given an elcga
Frontispiece—From an Engraving of the celebrated jar 1 »
Berriman & Co. grateftillyackuowledge the very
encouragement they havemet with; and havereafonto j e
that the execution of their edition will answer every expet
tation, ar.d (beak its own fraife.
May 26 goweßAt^
PRINTED BY JOHN FEN NO,
—No. 119 —
C H E S M UT-ST R t E T.
[Pricc Eight Dollars per Annum.j