of the d 3 Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Nvmbe* 12C7-] TRIP AT EVENING, Jt/ir 22, 3706. X.
For bale or quarter,
, THE SNOW
BOSTON, 1
t 2000 Bbls. of flour—(he may be sent {
to sea at a small expence, her fails and rigging being in fc
very good order—Ripply to ?
"James Campbell, or
George Latimer.
April, t9- § . .
for bale, ■,
(On a liberal credit)
The fact failing copper-bottomed BRIG ,
yaifeaig Amiable Matilda,
IN compleat order for sea, with » frcight on b°ard. Ap
plyto * SAMUiL bMI IH, Broker. >
July 7- _ i— v
Snow Hebe. 1
_ JOR SALE,
The Snow HEBE, j
\ faithful Philadelphia built vessel, car-
of grain or 2600 barrels flour, is rea-
A »JHi, in 1 careo. She is about four years old.
y Av»Jv to PETtR BLIGHT.
WliQ has for fide,
Coffee, Cocoa, and Pimento.
Alfp,
A Parcel as CHOICE PORT WINE-
Juae 6 "L 6
Schooner LIT! LE JOHN.
FOR sale, 1
THE S.CHopNFR LITTLE JOHN,
CAPTAIN BOYD,
A BOUT 18 months old, a very fact
WflsflL J\ failing vessel, on Virginia Pilot boat
p' an > now la y in s at Soi,th street whar: >
P aries near qeo barrels, is ready to take
SKaesSJin a cargo ; a liberal credit will be given.
Apply to PETER BLIGHT.
July i - „ liM-
Lottery
FOR ratfmg fiit thousand fix hundred and Gxty-feven
dollars and fifty centjs, by a deduaion of fifteen per
cent from the prixeS, and not two blanks to a prize. viz.
I Prize of jooo collars m dollars jooo
IQQQ 1000
j jo« jco
200 IDCO.
A 100 2®©° J
no SO 49J0
too *S - 5000 (
aooo 10 30 >000 .
r Lad drawn numbers of 1000 dollars eac|i, 5000
J «—— X
4332 Prizes. 44,4.50 1
4018 planks.
635^-TicketsaTSeven Dollars each, 44.45°
By erder of the Directors of the Society for eftablnh- .
ing Ufeful Manufa&urea, the fuperintendaijt? of the Pat
erfon Lottery hive requested the Managers to offer the
foregoing Seheme to the public, and have direded them
to refund the money to those persons who have purehafed
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets <
in thjsLottery. .
The lottery has actually commenced dfawmg, and will 1
continue until finished. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
may befeenat the office ol William Blackburn, No. 64
south Second street, who will give information where tick
ets may be procured.
Dated this 17th day of June, 1795.
J. N CUMMING, }
JACOB R. HARDENOERG, > Managers. |
JONATHAN RHEA, J
June 18 e0
Wm. HOLDERNESSti,
No. 76 High Street,
HAS received, by the late ft arrivals from Europe and ;
the East Indies, a well fele<sled assortment of S.lk
Mercery, Linen Drapery and Haberdafiiery Goods; which 1
he will fell, Wholcfale and Retail, on the Joweft terms ;
amongst which are, ,
Some fine India muslins embroidered with gold and friver
Superfine Book, Jaconet, and Mulmul .ditto
fc'o do do do Handkerchiefs
Some extra black taffetics.lutsftringsand colored Persians ,
Bandaxio Handkerchiefs
Long and short Nankeens
English Mantuas of the firft quality
Dainaft: table linen and napkins, very gpe ,
• Silk H<,3cry, an elegant affortmant
Thead and cotton do
Umbrellas —green silk, oil'ddo. and do cloth
French cambrics, very fine
Irish L ; uens. do. &e. &c. Tune 14 5
For Hale,
A Three story BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut
street, between front and Second ftrsets, in which
Meffts. James Calbraith & Co. have for many years (and
now do) carried on business.
PoffeffioA will bt given in one month, or sooner.
FprJterips anply to WILLIAM BELL, or
HECTOR CALBRAITH.
April 21. * 5_
Sales of India Goods.
The Cargo eAhefhip Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cal" ,
cutta and Bengal,
CONSISTING OF
A Large and general assortment of Bengal and Madras
COTTON and SILK GOODS.
AMOMG WHICH ARE
A variety fine ivhrked and plain Muslins,
Dpreas, 13' c. Alio,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
In bcscs .and -bags—and BLACK PEPPER.
For S?Jc by
WiUings & Francis,
No. 21 Penn Street.
Jure 8
Juit Arrived,
In the Snow Boston, James Kirkpatrick, ma Iter from Li
vernool,
5000 BuihcU SALT ;
100 Crates QJJEENS ARr. ; and
All Afiortmei tot SHIP CHANDLE* » ;
F O R SALE
On bbird, at Pine-llreet wharf Apy>!y to
James Campbell, or
George Latimer.
April lj. S
Take Notice,
THAT the Subfcribar intends to rnaxc applica
tion for the renewal of a Certificate, No. 1639,
for 4000 dollars, dated the 14th December, i'-'9s,beaHrij ,
interest at 5 i per cent, from ill January, 1796, in the
■name of DsvidDuinletdale & Co. oi" -Lewis, in X«vk
fhire, ni. i'he fame i'fuppofiyl to hsv«.been lots
on its \vay to New York, under cover t» Sf
March, of that place, on the 6tii of January lafV
Thomas M'Eucn.
tid Jung, 179/1. «6.v
Twenty Dollars Reward.
WAS STOLEN, lad evening, fro'ajthe pasture of the
fubferiber, a black Rockinghaai OELDINO, 15
»-2 hands high, has a star, and some white under
throat, (the part being formerly chafed) ;has a leather on
hi» neck, the mane on the noar fic(e, his foot-locki fre',tcc( i
with a clog, and is a horse of much bone and size. V/ho- j
ever fecurcs him with the thief, lhall have th; aliove ri - [
ward, or for the Horse alone a very generous conipcnfa- I
tion JOHN LAWRENCE.
July? eo4W
New Hat and Hosiery-store,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL,
By WILLIAM M'DOIJGALL,
No. 134 Market-fireet % ' »
Third door trom the corner of Fourth, faulhHJe
Men's Black, American and HaTo,ql vijriQusq.u*.
litics and prices
Ditto Drabs and Green unders
Ladies' ditto, black, and a large afTortm?n{ of fancy do.
Coloured Beavers, With a great variety p| elegant aad
fafbionable Trimmings
Youths Black and Drab-coloured do.
Children's fancy do
All kinds of Silk. Silk & Cotton, Cotton & Thread HOSE
Knit, coloured Pantaloons
Do. Drawers - ' • - - f
Do. Breeches Patterns
Silk Gloves
Knotted, coloiir?4 do. Cotton
A q.u?nti|y of M C( l4i.ng Cotton, sorted colours.
(pT Thtf Hats finifhepin the nevyeft fjfiiion.
June 27. eo'm
For fate by the fublcribers,
I,N PSNN-STKEET,
130 quarter Chills, frefh Hyson Tea;
iso ditto do. frefh Souchong Tea;
3®o Boxes China, containing small tea setts of 41
pieces;
400 pieces Band4no<s.
Willing & Francis.
January 30 3taw.
Yazoo Lands.
May be had at the Editor's Office 1 19, Chefnut-Jlrtd,
A few Copjes of " a Report of the Attorney
Genetal to Congress containing a Colleflion of
Charters, Treaties aud other Documents,
relative to and of the Title to the Lund,
luuate in the South Weltefn parts of the
States, anc} claimed by certain Companies ui iler a
law or the State of Georgia, pafled January 7th,
'795-
03- NOTICE.
There will be fold on Thursday the 4th of Augufl, at
the Merchants'coffee house, in Second street,
One thousand shares of the flock of
the North America Land Company.
If not preyioufly of.
Philadelphia. 20th July- dts
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
(Price thrce-lixteenths of a Dollar)
No. I,
fEkgantTy printed in quarto and embellilhcd with a
fijperb engraving reprefenti'ng the firfl introduilion
of the Maid of Orleans to Charles VH.
To be continned in weekly numbers 'tillcomplete!]
op THE
HISTORY OF FRANCE,
From the earliest times until the conclusion of the pre
sent war.
THE firft number of this work and conditions of
publication may be fcen at the following places,
Where fubferiptions are received, vjz.
Mtffrs. Thomas Dobfon, No. 41, south Second
ftreetMathew Carey, No. 112, Market-street; John
Ormrod, No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet, booksellers ; and by
' S. I. Denoon, bookbinder, Farmer's-row, Dock-street;
John Aitken, No. 193, south Second-street; at Bio
ren and Madan's printing-offioe, back of 77, Dock
ftieet, Philadelphia. » d^t.
Just Published,
BT THOMAS DOBSON,
At the Stone House, No. 4.!,fouth Second street,
neatly printed in one volom* quarto, pricc fix
dollars the fine papw, or five dollars the com
mon:
j The Four Gospels,
TRANSLATEDfrom the GREEK, with PRE
LIMINARY DISSERTATIONS, a.id notes
CRITICAL and EXPLANATORY,
fy GEORGE CAMPBELL, L). D. F. R. S.
(Sfc.
Principal of Matifchal College, Aberdeen.
* # * Tne ohara£ter of the Author for aeutenefs
i aod erudition has been cllablifhed by his eflay on
j miracles in anfsver to David Hur.e," the greatest
s masterpiece of the kind ever publilhed, and by Jiis
" Philosophy of Rhetoric," and to the merit of
the present work, the result of nearly /orty years
, study and application, and the fubllance of his
course of kciures io his official capacity, the
levjewetshave given ample tellinjony, -but their ac
count, however honorable to t}ie woik, is too long
for a place in this ad*ertifcment, the work howev
er is now presented in aji American edition at not
more than half th,e pricc.pf the London copy.
July 20. 4-W3W
.j-Q BR L£T
/l LARGE Commodious dwelling Houfi:,
£\_ Spruce street, a convenient liable and Coach
House, —Also for sale a Chariot bur little the wotfe for
use. June 1. ec>tf
CAB L E S,
From 16 to 9 i inches, for fa'e by
yerciniab tya/der,
lis J 2 nsfth TJiirjd-ftjcet.
July i» S
Samuel Richardet,
RESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen.
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY ,
TAVERN and MERCHANTS C©??EiiHOUSE in the ±
city.of Philadelphia. _ tLI
The Sabfiription Room will be furnifted with all tiiC ;
pi}K.ts published in Philadelphia, N:vf-York, 80l- t>;
together with thole of the priniiynt cc:n- °>
*iW»s of will be regularly filed tr
airl >f*ne jkertSlitted to be taken on any account.
Testi C'o/Tte, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Crjatns, a,rid a variety
of French i.iquors; together with the usual refre!hm«its, ~
willaf ali times be p,-ocufed aefhebar.
Geutlen/en may depend cn being accommodated with,
the ch'oice!V of Wines, Spirkuous I.iquors, and the mod;
approved Malt Liquors andiother breweries. 'T
The Larder w.ili befupp.Ued with thepunie earheil
produAions of tho Scafpii. Tv
< Large' and' final! or fmgle Gentlemen, may be, a
I accommodated with Brcakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers,- at r to
I hoitrf'mott conv nieht to themselves—a cold Col lation is
regplatly for conveniency, th« Bill ol Fare to be had
at tho bar,
'she Lodging Rooms will be completely furniftied, and
the utmpß atten{ion paid to cleaifiinefs, and every oth.er
requisite.
0- Samuel Rk-.iiardet will be happy to'receive, and
exprnte the ps fyjs Fficnds, ?nd Public »t
large"; and'with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himlW-that nothing oil his part fjjait be wanting to pre
fcrvc that patronage with which he has been To ditlinguifh
frigiy honored.
Philadelphia, April 19. §
vJuy cf Waikingicn.
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11,
for The improvement of the, \ q
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent > 20,600 dollars, & ) d ,
dwellmg-houfe, J caih 30 000, are )
1 ditto 15..000 & cast 35,000 40,000
I dittp UjQOO & cash 15,00 a 30,090
1 ditto 10,000 & calh io,cqo 20,0p0 : t l
I ditto 5,000 & calh 5,000 10,,00 a ' ' '
1,000 if. cash 5,000 10,000
'I call) prize of * " 10,000
2-do. 5,000 each,are, • to,c;b
ro do. 1,000 - - 10,000
zo do. 500 * - io,qoo
00 do. 10a ,J 10,000
*» da. 50 - - 10,000
4< o do. 25 - - , 10,000 |
1,300 (lb. 20 . - 20,000
15,000 do. 10 • 150,000
. 16, Prizes.
Blanks.
50,000 Eight P.ollars, 40,0000 1
N. B. To favour those who may take a quantify of c
Tickets,the prize of 40,-ooodolkirs Willie the l.ist drawn a
ticket, and the 30,000 th? last but one : a.
And approved notes, fe.Curihg payment in either money U
or prizes in ten, days.titter, cjfawing, will be received for
any number not less than 30 ticket*. d
Thi- Lottery will alford'an elegant specimen of thepri- ,
va,te buildings to be ere'ited in the City of Walhin^ton — a
Two beautiful defigu? are already felfiAed for the entire 0
frontt. on twoi.of,. the puj)lij fguares ; from tbefe prawings : v
it is proposed to ereA two centre aiid four corner buildings, a
as toim as poTlifiie after this lottery is fold, and to convey (;
thegi, complete, to the farjuiute adventurers, in b
the nianiier defcr'ibe<f 111 the lcheme for the Hotel pottery. j :
A nett dedacStion of fivaper cent, will be made to defray ;
the neijcifiiry'eipenljes.of printing, &e. and the surplus [
will be inad£ a par( of the fundJuienued fpt the National (
Unive'rfity, eg be c.fecled v/itfciif the city of Walhington. (
The Drawing will copameuce as loop as the tickets-are. j
fold off.—'-Thc'Jioney jttlzcs will bi payable in thirty days 1
after it" is antl any pr zes f>r . tvhieh fortunate i
numbers aie not produced withm twelve months after die (
dra vvinp; iscjoled, are to be confnlercd as given towards t
the funj for fh / University ; jt being deterraiped to fettle J
the whole business in a year from the ending of the'draw- j
ing, and to take up the bonds given as security. ,
The real fecurit,es given for the payment of the Prizes, ;
are held bv tbe Prefidejit and two Direflors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at niore than half the a
mount of the lottery.
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment cf
the late Commifiioncrs assisted in the management of the
Hotel Lottery are requefled to Un4ertak<t this arduous talk
a second time on behalf of the public ; a fufijeient num
ber ps thtfe having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
friends to a National Umverfity and the other federal ob- (
jefis may continue to favor the design.
By account? received from the dio&*ent parts of the
Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets
j have been lent, for- sale, the public are allured that the
drawing \vill speedily commenae, and that the care arid
caution unavoidably ncceffary to insure a fafe disposal of
the tickets, has rendered the in r suspension indifpenl'able.
SAMUEL ULODGET. .
Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; of
1 James Weft & Co. Baltimore ; <j{ Peter Gilman, Boston ;
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; aiid of Richard Walls,
■ Cgoper's Ferry.
Loft,
• Tburfda.y 30th June, on.the road from Philadelphia
j V J to the Falls' of Schu> lkill, anil about the fifth mile,
a browft and wh'ce mottled POINTER DOG, anfwersto
the name of Don, had on round his neck a collar eugrav
' ed Waller Phillip', Philadelphia Whoever will Iming
him to Mr.Kid, No. 192 Market-street, willrcceive a re
ward of ten dollars.
i NB. The owner fufpefts that the Dog is tied up, else
1 he* would have returned. The ab.u'e reward will be giv
en to any petfon giving that information if true.
Chien d'Arret perdu.
JEUDI le 30th Juin on a perdu fur la route de Philadel
pbie aux Chutes dc la Schuylkill, a cinq milles de la
Y-ille. tin Chi.-b. d'Arret marq.ue de tjchcs olanchas et
brunts. II rcpondeas nom de DON et porte un collier fur
leqnel font grave les mots Waller Philadelphia.
r Quiconqne menera ce chien chez Monsieur Hid, rue du
Murche, aura dix gourdes de recompense.
11 y a lieu dc foupconner que le chisn eft tenu attache
quclquc part; autrement il ferolt deja revenue de luim£me.
>n dennera la diterecompenfe a celni qui peut indiquer le
lieu ou ce chien fe trouve maintenant.
July if) . *3'
„ ' : ' JUST ARM FED, ' ' '
1 175 Hogsheads of Choice
St. CROIX SUGARS.
Also,
A quantify of Rum.
• for Sale by
Yard. .
July y 6t
Ev aa Artist lefident at Mr. Oclfei>'s Hotel,
M lIS' I X T U !l K LIKENESSES
ARE taken and c:ceeut;d in that ele'japt ,-;. id delicats
stile, which is so necefl'ary to render aMiuiaturo Pic
ture sn io'ereftmg jewel.
He will warrant =. strong and indifnutaUle refem.
blsC-'e; and takes-the lib. sty to lay before thi public
ofjthi* earrieliintentios-to deserve their pa
tronage by his bSViyjdeavora to pjcafc.
N. B. Specimens arfr-{<j be seen.
May 12. §
\Y a ilinig 1011 Ca 11 alLcuer v,
' N0 . I. .
WUhREAS the. State of Maryland has authorised
the !»idere,irittcn, to raise twenty-sis thousand,
twphundred, and fifty dpliat's, for the ptirppfe. of cutting'
a (!»nal through Jh: Qjcy of VVafhiagton, from th» L'e
tomacto the Eastern Branch Hanubur.
TII9 iollow injj 1; .he SCiIEVIE of No. I.
Viz .1 Prize of 20,000 dollars, 20,008
I ditto 10,000 10,000
7. lad drawn >
Tifl-.cts. each f J) OGO 3^,000
6 ditto I,coo 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,nco
20 ditto 100 2.000
55 ditto 50 2,750
5750 ditto _ it 6.9 oda
To be«aifed for the Canal, 26,150
5850 Prizes, 175,000
J1650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, atTen Dollars, - 175,000
•t5" The Commiflioners have taken the Securities re
quired by the aforcfaid act for the puntfual payment A
the prize>.
I'he drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon as the Tickets art fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix iponth? after the
drawing is finifhed, lhall be confiden d as relinquilhsd for
b'he benefit of t.ie Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Sj S nedj . NOTLEY YOUMC, °
DANIEL CARROLL, o/D.
LBWI3 DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
\ City of WtliingtOß, Feb. ix. §
For Sale,
A LARGE ELEGANT AND WELL FINISHED
Three-story Brick House,
(The late refidtnee of General Walter Stewart)
WITH a LO 1 of GROUND thereunto belonging,
the weft fide of Third street, near L'nion-ftreet
containing in front 32 feet, aiid in cb<, th 100 feet, to an
alley leading into Union-ftrect. The house is 32 feetfrotst
and i .jolett deep ; the several rooms contair.:d in it are
large, commodious, andcqiqpletsly 'fim&'cd; the 'two firft
bcries are eac {3 fc-t high ; there are 20 mahogany
doors in the'houfe ; a geometrical ftalrcafe, with mahoga
ny rails and a good sky-light. '1 he kitchen is ill the cell
ar, 'which is spacious and convenient, and finithed with an
oven, ftew-fioles and pantries, a fervantV hall arid large
wine-caliar adjoining the kitchen, in front of which i, an
area irt which there is a pump The yard is vaulted.
Communicating with the faiii building is a neat three-story
brick horse', on the ndrth fide of Unihn-ftreet, contain
ing 30 f&t front! by 50 feet> deep'; the lower part of which
is at prefer.t occupied as a copipting-houfb, and the upper
J>art divided into wcll-finifhed large chambers. This hou/e
liiay at a small expense be convefteii into a convenient
dwelling : The street door is very handsome, and the front
and back have Venetian wiridow-ihuttcrs. Adjoining the
last house, upon the lot belonging to the firft, 'are creeled
bathing-rooms, &c. There are likewise very good coacTi
houfe and ftablesfinifhed equal {or nearly so) with any Th
the city, on a lot containing on Un;on street 30 feet, and
in depth 011 the weft fide of said alley 52 fret. There are
good cellars unde< the whole of the buildings, and a winfe
room over part of the stable, with a hay-loft over the re
mainder. For further particulars enquire of
tD\V\RL) BOJJShLL & Co.
At their Office No. 64 Dosk-jlteet. between Wulniii & Pen
t6 fttects.
6th month 24th, 1796.
FOR SALE.
\ FOUNT of BREVIER, half Worn ; about four htnv
I}l dred weiglit. Enquire at ihe Office of the Gazefte
of she pnited States, No. 119 Chefnut-ftreet. §
" Ya K E NOTICE,
THAT application will be made for the renewal of
the following certificates, ifiued by Joseph Nonrfc,
Register of the Treasury, in th: name of Roger Grif
■ wold,'Efq. of Nofwich, Connedlicut—
1 certificate, fix per cent donieftie stock, No. 13,90J
—dated the lythDtcemher, bearing interefl front
■ the firft day of Jrgwary, 1791, for 1,597 65-100 doi
-1 1 ditto, thre* per cent, domefttc llock, No. 10,684
—dated DecembJr 16, 1795, bearing interest from the
firft day of January, 1791, for 994 30-100 dollars.
1 ditto, deferred flock, No. 9,166 —dated the 17th
December, 1795, bearing inteiell from the firft Jliiiu
-1 ary, igoi, for 798 83-lpo dollars,
' Said certificates are supposed to have been loft or
' flo'en in this citv some time in December or Janua:y
' last.
JOSEPH THOMAS,
No. 59, North Front-street.
Philadelphia, July 21, 1796. d6w %
On Monday next, 25th inft. (July,)
Will be landed at South street wharf, the cargoes ot Superb,
Weft Indian and lfabella, from Jamaica and Havanna, con
fiding of
1 Mol&fies in Hogsheads,
I Coffee in hogsheads, barrels & bae;s,
v ' : - 1 ■. FCR SALE BV
1 | PETER BLIGHT.,
Who has also for sale,
A quantity of Jamaica GINGER,
Pimento & 7 T v>
Cocoa, jln 8 '
And 159 boxesHambro' WJNDOW CLASS, 7 by 5, wij£
be fold cheap.
July 20 diOt Sc tush & s loc
University of Pennsylvania,
July 16, 1796.
THE Summer Vacation will take place on Monday next,
the iS:h inft. and coiitinue for.Fou* weeks.—The differ
ert Schoocs wiihth: ftvrral Tutors will accofdingiy ic»
afTcir.ble on Monday, the 15th day ot Aujuft.
coj the Faculty, \V*. Rosina, Scc'y.p R.I CE S CURk Eiv i .
PhV'a.ieljihia, July 22.
?ER qUANTiT Y —DOLLAR) A I JOO CENTS.
DM Cts. Dollr Cts
A KCHORS, fr.li. 10 .Vflr'Jr, id, lO.V, 12J,
A ■ 7 and %od, per lb, 1.1
R'j.b, pr lb. II N'dwrs, per lb. 11,
Afies, f~ot% J>cr tort, 170 o*7, / nfeed t per gall. I 3, r
Pearl, 150 ' OUve,
Arrack f ptrgallon, —dittD, per cafe % 9
flacott, Shoulder } pr% lb. IO ■ 'ef, be/!. In
—^—flHolies, 11 per k$x u lO
Brands, common, *60 ■ mditto bajketr, It
- Coniac, 167 k 1 j Utf.es, 7
Br z'lctto, per ton, 32 34 **sbermactli pr gall I
B cks, per M. 7 - Train, per bbl. 18
Bread, {h\p, permi. € , ■ T Vbale, per. gal. 45
Ditto,.pilot , 12 Porter per c*Jk, J 30
XHtto, {twill xvaSer —Lndon,per dox. 1,5°
per leg, 90 ■■ ■ 'American do. boH•
Beer, Arnerican,inboi• incl. 1
ties, per dozen, boU Pitch, per bbl 3 5°
ties included, t 60 W, Burlington # per
Ditto, per barrel, 6 barrel, 19 to to
Boards,CedarferMfirt 30 ——Lower eouaty, 19
—, ■ Hearty 30 Carolina, 16
Aftrg England, 80 Peas, Albany, prbujh. 93
—Oak, t6 Peppor % per lb. 38
1 1 Merchantable pine, l 8 Pimento, 14
~——Sap, do. iS Xaifinj, bejlper log ft
— Mahogany,pr.foot # Ditto per jar, 6
The above are the Jballop Ditto per bote 6
frhes, for the yard Itiae, per ctvt. $ 50
price priee, add 1 del' Rosin per barrel ' $ 5®
Z lar,M cents, pr M. Rum, Jamaica, pr gal. I 67
Brimfone M rolls, per ■ *mAntigua X 54
envt. 16l ■■■■■ X 4°
Beef,Bofion, it —Barbados 133
—■ ■ Country, ditto T4 Country, N. X. I
Frejh, cwt. $ tot Saltpetre, per cwt•
Butter per lb. 18 i to Sajfafra*, per h*
in lege IA Mot, ditto, 60
Candles Sperm, fer U. 53 Steel, German fer lb. X 4
■ IVax —Emgllfi,blijl.pr eivt. IS 14
— , ... — Myrtle JVaie tO American, per ton X3J 33
■ ■ ■ Mould talloxvl% to 19 —Crowley's, pr faggot
•- ■ ■ Dipped 15 Snake root, fer lb. 35
Cheese, Envl'fo, per lb. *8 Soap, brown per It.
Country XI« 13 —m'>U 14
Chocolate *5 —CafiiU «
Cinnamon 46 Starch 16
Cloves * 5° Snuff,pr do% bottles
Cr. oa, t>er cwt. l 8 Spermaceti refined pr lb.
Coffee, per lb. 1$ to *8 Sail eloth, Englijb. No.
Coal, per bufbol, 30*40 X, per yard, 33
Copperas, per cwt. $ —BoHon, No. f, do. $0
Cordage, American, fer No. 2, do.
owt. 16 a 18 Sugar, lump, per lb.
Gotten, per lb. 33 to 4° —Loaf, Jingle res. »7
Currants 10 ■ ■ Sitto double ditto
Duek, Russia, per piece, 18 ■ Havannab, white 10
— Ravens XI 5° ■■ '"Ditto brown 16
Dutch Sail Duck 24 — Mufcovadop.cwt.ilat i 67
feathers, per lb. 66 ■■ ■ ■ Eafi India, fr.
flax, ditto XI ewt. 14 £6
Flax Joed, per bujbet 60 Sp. Turpentine pr gall. 66
Flour, Sup. per barrel 11 5° Salt, allum, pr bujbell 66
u" Common, IO 60 —Liverpool $&
■ ■■■ Bur middlings, belf, 850 Cadiz 60
—■ ■ • Meal, Indian 4 $0 —-Lijbon 63
■ ditto Rye, S Ship building W. 0.
.•ShipJiuff per cwt. 333 frames per ton 21 67
Fuflic per ton, 1J Ditto Live Oak, 26
Gin, Holland per safe t 75° Do. Red Cedar pr foot
Do. per gall. X 93 Shingles x 8 inches, pr
Glue, per ewt. M 4
Ginger,whiter ace,per ewt 18 Ditto 1 feet 7
Ditto, common 16 Ditto I feet dressed X 6
Ditto, ground 24 Staves, pipe pr 1000, 60
Ornfeng, fer lb. 30 white-oak hogshead 45 33
Gunpowder, cannon,per Red oeU ditto 28
*qr.eajk, »3 —Leogtsn »6 33
Ditto, fine glazed, 28 — ■ Barrel l 8
Grain,lVboatprbujbl.sQa% Heading 44
■ « ■ Rye, X Skins Otter,be/fpr pieee 3 33
■— m Oats f 4 60 —Minks l 6
■ ■ ■Indian Com, 93 —Fo*, grey 10 5 4
■ Bsrley, 320 —Ditto red XIO
■si ■■ tbofi[/belled pr.U. — Martini 5O
■ ■■ ■Buckwheat per —Fibers 57
bufbel, 75 —Bears . 3
Mams, fr. lb. X 3 —Racoons 60
Hemp, inporUJ, ftr -Mufb-rats, 37
ton, 3 CO —Beaver, per I 6l
American, pet lb IO —Deer, in hair 1| a 33
Herrings, for bbl. 6 Tar, N. Jsrf. 24 gall.
Hides, raw fr. lb. th 9 per bbl.
Hops, 9 —Carolina, gall. ft
Hogjhead hoops fir M. 30 Turpentine, per bbl. 3 SO
Isidigo, French set lb, 'I 67 Tobacco, J. River bejl
■ » ■ ■ Carolina, X 100lb. 7*B
Irons, fad per lon 133 S3 ■■ ■ Petersburg 6*650
Iron, eaflings for ewt, 4 ■ Potrwmas %a $
fcarte XX3 33 " — >Georgia 6a J
■■ ■ Russia for ton 97 ■■ Carolina 4# 5
— ■P'tg 3» Tea Hyson, for lb% 1 to h
m ■ Sheet, 424 38 —fyf* n 83
■ ■ Nail rods, l%Oh Ift6 67 —Souchong, X a X 13
Junk for ewt. 5 —Congo, 50
Lard, bogs per lb. 1 4 35
Lead in pigs, for fivt. S3i Tallow, refined, fer lb. 14
—in bars % 7 77#, fer ben l 6 50
■ ■ ■ ■ whfte, 13 33 Kaniila, per lb. 20 a 24
red, 9 y(rdigreafe, do. X
Leather, foal per lb. ft 2 VermilUbn, S 50
Lignum vita fer tor., 34 Tarnifb, fer gallon,
Logwood, 40 Wax, Bees, per lb. 33
Mace, per lb. XX Whale-bone, long,pr lb. 12
Mackerel, bejl fer bbl X 2 IVine, Madeira fr f. 226
1 1 second quality 8 —Li/bon, X 26
Madder, bejl per lb. 20 t Teneriffe,frgal. 70
Marble wrought fr foot 60 —Fayat, 6 J
Mast Jfars ditto 60 — Port per pipe X 33 33
Molatfes, per gall. 60 —Do. in bott.pr do%
Mustard, per lb. 46 —Claret,percajk 40to$0
•i> ' 'flour, in bottles. ■ - Sherry, tergallon I 50
fer dozen, X 20. —Malaga, 84
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
On London, at 30 days, per £.100 fterl.
■ at 60 days, 165
1 at 90 days, 161 I x 6» x-l
Amftcrdani, 60 days, per guilder, 41
90 diys, 40 j
William Young, John Mills, fear,
and John Mills, juur.
RESPECT FULLY inform the public, that they, have tbit
■day entered im« a Co-oartnerlhip in the »ebkfe!ltng
and Stationary business. wholesale and ret a I!,under the firm of
W. 2'oung, Mills, & Son,
At the ft ore hitherit> o«.capt d b' William Younjf, the cor
ner of Second and Che f n«t ftreefs where they intend to car
ry on the ftortTaid bufineia. on an ex'enfive p!an.
All perTcna who have unf<-.tied .cc tuirs %vich W, Young,
are req eftrd to bring - hem in tor immediate fettiement,
djt
Jul! arrived,
200 boxes btft C laret,
Co«t«ii:me Wodoeen rich, forf.ir, Wholtfalc * Rj«»ilJby
William Sbeaff,
♦CS . July M. N., i*i ai*h.ftree«. j
foreign iutelligcncc.
from Lokddh Papers of May 18, by the Man
Ctf bSTWtrom Liverpool.
LONDON. May 18.
This morning advice, were received in town,
in.m aumitai Duncan's licct cruizing in tlie N»rtl j
uas, by which it appeals he ha> taken (he Dutc
nua;e Argu, ot 44 *uiii, a brig of 18, and dnven
w.i armed bligs oil thore near the mouth of the
t'exel.
Ourcorrefpondent at Framlingtos writes thatou?
niday lait there was the greattfl fall of snow i«
ue vicinity ot that p!ace f ever remembered I>y the
,ldt.tl man living there. .-iv-h ;>'.r
_ vi
From the London Gazette.
Admiralty Office, May 17. 179®
Ex'raft of a letterftora Vi. e Admiral Colpoys, da.
ted on board his Majelty's ship London at Spit
head, the iiiit. to Mr, Nepcan» Secretaij
to the Admiralty.
M I herewith transmit you, for the information
of my Lord* Commiflioners of the Admiralty, co
pies of two letters received fiom Capt. Foote, ot
his Msjefly's Ihip Niget, giv'ngtne an account of
liis proceedings at different times 1 detached him
on fliore in the coalt of France.
Nigei, near the Peomarkt, April 27, 1796.
Sia,
I have the honour to inform you, that from the
ii e i made the signal of the chace being an ene
my's ctuizer, I continued working towards her.—
By funfhet our (hot reached her 5 and shortly after
ttiefignal being made for three fathoms, 1 anchor
ed withiu half cable's length of a rock, (must of
which wai coveted at high water) and a mile from
th - main land ; a spring was gpt upon the cable, and'
a constant fire kept up till near nine o'clock, when
I sent Messrs. Lung and Thompson, 'he si/l and
• hird lieutenant, Mr. Morgan, mailer's mate, and
Mr. Patton, midshipman, in the barge and cutters,
with their erews and fix mari icg, giving dire&iVns
to Lieut. Long to set fire to the veflel, if he could
not brj'ig her off. At half past ten the boats re
turned, with afecond captain, a midshipman, and :
26 men, having f» effcftually performed this ser
vice, that, at hwenty nine minutes past twelve, flic
blew up. It was with great difficulty they go' a
long fide of the enemy, the tide have ebbed consi
derably, and they experienced a very obstinate re
finance, the greatest part of her crew having remain
ed onboard, several of whom loft their lives. She
proved a corvette, lugger rigged, called L'E urial
mounting 18 four pounders, jtommanded by Mous.
Rousseau, having 105 men on board. She was
coppered, and had only been launched two years.
Signed. E. J. FOO TE.
< ImTofed is a return of the wounded officers, sea.
me and marines.
Return of wounded on board his Majesty's ship Ni
ger, April 26, 1796.
Lieut Long, firft Lieut, fevercly wounded on the
head and hand.
Mr. James Patton, Miiffcipman, on the head. r
"lhree seamen and 2 marines slightly wounded, i
Signed. E. J. FOOTE.
Niger, at Sea, May 8, 1796.
Sib,
Incompliance with the orders which I had the
honor to receive from you on the 4th instant, I flood
for the French coafl, and by seven o'clock the next
morning fetched el.-fe in wiih th« eastern part of
the Isle Dieu, where I difeovered, and immediate
ly gave chiee to and ran on shore, a French (ctioon,
er and flonp. The fchoaner was completely bil
ged ; the (loop laden with wine and brandy, was
brought off and taken in tow ; but in a short time
she became so water logged, that I scuttled her.
Admiralty OJjke, May 17, 1756.
Copy of a letter from Admiral Peyton, command
er in chief o! his majesty's ships in the Downs,
to Mr. Nepean, Sectetary to the Admiralty, da
ted May 1 z 796.
Sit,
You will be pleased to acquaint their Lordships,
that the Flora armed cutter, lieut. Reddy, is j«ft:
returned here from looking into Dunkirk, and his
brought in with him L'Epetvier French lugger,
mounting s two pounders and 6 swivels, with 26
men, he captured close in with Havre de Grace, on
the 10th ioll. and had not taken any thing.
! PARIS, May 11.
Extract of a letter from Brigadier General Durilh.
" Nahtes; ad Fioheau
'<• Almost all the Communes from Nantes to An
c'nii h*ve surrendered their arms.
•« The Debrues, Valeri, Jouffelin, Fayet, all
Chiefs of the army of Stofflet have come in with
their arms, and have promised fubmiflion to the
laws of the French Republic."
ExtraA of a letter from General Drut to Gene
ral Hoche.
Roiay,3d Florkal.
« The Chouan's are hafteiiing to their diff lution
in the Department of the Lower Loiie. I order
ed a general offer of pardon to be ir s nd* on the jft
which was produflive of the happiest effeifts.
•• The S ucftior. wirh the Royal Army at prefertt
is, whether they shall fnrrender in detachments or
in a mass."
LONDON, May Jt.
Vigorous measures were adopted, on the late
conspiracy, and on the morning of the tjth, the
utmost tranquility prevailed in Paris. It must be
confeffed, that the present seems to be the mod un .
propitious period that could have bee* chosen for a
confpiracy—for in neither of the two Councils does
there exist any violent fpiKtof party; between th.
Lrgiflature and the Diredory, there are the ut.
mofl harmony and concert ; the great mass of the
people appear to he finely attached to the con
Austin i lid usder the prefcu Gowra»c nl vke
-rms of France have atchieved the most brilliant
■ nies.
Hie however, hi>f afforded the most
invincing proof of the energy and llrehgth ot the
overunient.
Peace, according to the Parii paper*, will he im
nedt3tely concluded between the King of Sardinia
,nd the French Republic. It is even said, that
he Emperor has entered into negociatioufc with
lie Republic.
The army of the Alps, under the eottfm*nd of
General Kcllerman, has ju(t effe&ed a jun&ion with
the army of Italy, under" the command of Gen.
liuonipaVte, and unred aimies ate on the point
of entering the MiHnofe.
The campaign had not commenced or the Rkine
on the 9th inft. *
NEWRY, May it.
On Tuesday evening lad arrived at Warren point,
the (hip America, Capt. Palmer, laden with flax
feed from New-York, which port (he left the 10th
i>f February. On the 14th (he encountered a se
vere gale, which continued with encreafing vio
lence till the 22d s about three o'clock P. M. ir
'at. 39158. long. 47, 50, a large fca struck the
(hip, stove in her dead lights, and laid her o'i het
beam *nd«, (he was filling fad wi'h wa'er when
another sea (as they fuppufe) II ruck her,by which
(he righted, but how dreadful the profpert, fix of
the belt seamen swept over board and clinging to
pieces of the wreck ; mart, rigging, butts, anchors,
bowsprit, head, (lern, and quarter rails, binnacle,
kitcheg, water and harness caflcf, even the timber
heads, all were jfone close by the de k. The hrll
exertion* wete directed tothe un ortunate men who
were (trugglrtijj with the waves, but they could ,
fa vie only, one, frve perilled. In three days they
were able to shape their course for the Wettem
Islands, dirtant about 1200 miles, baring converted
one of thr remaining anchor Hocks into a tiller,
some spars into.jury malls, and in 21 days arrived
at Fayal j in five creeks were refitted, and 011
lalt Saturday morning made the S. E. coall of Ire
land, at night flruck the tail of W i klow sands
' but wa* soon got off. On Monday night (he
ranon Sheep rock, inside Carlingford bar, where (he
fttuck, ev iy moment expefled to go to pieces,
when (he ws» saved by the great, uncommon, and
highly praise w rthy exertions of James Read, Ef«j.
surveyor of Carli lgford, who instantly double map
nert the king's (halLp, and a-med with tvery ne
cessary for the (hip'* pio'edlion, colle&ed all the
vrffel* I'mall craft and boa's, at or near Carliigtord,
and got along fide the (hip b) break of dav. He
instantly proceeded to her, by whuh me*ns
(he was got off the rocks, and her carijo saved.
Mr. Read saw bat fate into port, where (he is now
discharging the remainder of her cargo.
LANCASTER, May 16.
The Pacific, a Dutch merchantman Surmam to Am
fterdam, richly laden, is taken by the Galatea frigate
and sent iato Falmouth
Admiral Macbri '.e, with the fq'iadron under
his command, was expelled to fail this day frou the
Nore for the "Noith Seas.
The Zephyr (loop of war of , 4 g Un s, capt. Lawrie,
and theHawke, ofi6, capt.' Hale, arrived at Leith on
Friday last, with five Dutch fitb.ng smacks, taken by
them during their erune-
WALPOLE (N. h.) July 12
Far tbt FjkMn't IVsixir Mossum.
From the (hop of Mcffs. Colon and Spondee.
ATTEi\TION, HAYMAKERS !
Suspend your scythes—Lean upon your pitchforks
—Stick your take* in the sod, and while thr
refrcthing pitcher goes meirily round, listen to
Neighb ur Wintnw's advice upon drinking.
0 Fellow Labourers,
WHEN we iweat mod, we third rao ft, and
dmik rtbft abundantly—You will all pronounce
that hquurbelt, which make* you raoft Itrong and
healthy. , 0
Then do not drinks—The body in Hit* ful ry
season being extremely heated, acts like a still, the
rum immediately fl.es off, and the heavy, dammy
dregs of the beer and sugar, temain to clog the
ttomack, render the laborer dull and weak, and of
ten excite inflammatory disease.
Do not drink -.oddy or milk punch, for the fame
reaion.
If rum, brandy, whiflcy, gin or other ardent
fpints must be drank, take half a gill at a time,
ui.mixed, and immediately drink large draughts of
water after it. For the fame reason, when a man
is crack brained enough to throw a fire brand into
a magazine of powder, .he cannot do better, than
to throw water upon the burning coals a* fact fc,
potiiblf.
Drink Switehel, that is, molaffw or maple fu.
lar mixed with water.
Diink whey, or milk and water, two-third* wa
ter—spruce or small bear.
Diink cider. Not boiled—if you would be
merry, but cider and water, if you would be
thy, happy and wife. The acid in cider i* the belt
preventive againll all putrid diforderi.
Drink vinegar and water so. the fame reason.
JJrink fiure water—You have been told fright
ful Hone* about people wh.ie fat has been cooled,
andwho have died luddenly by drinking cold wa.
lot, 2V ? f n ' he fu "' half " hour bcf <^
Uh the eoM y ° Ur m ° Uth ,hrfC ° r four time »
•wh the coldelt water and you may then drink
much colder than your bodie* it will then do vou
mal "W' ,? rt ' U S th<:n and quicken your ani
mal function,. WI „ m . kc y , iU J
at the «r« £ rffrelhing, and you will nec d, 1
at the next dawn, no other call to awake you than
tne chirping of the early bird-you will arise ,0
d ° Ut '' wh " I I« the stoutest gro*
, , S c«me and try a fall at wrestling with me
a temperate water drinker of sixty/v,
1. °H • OUt an a<?rc of foul meadow, and fee
who will cut it firft. * d lce
Fe'low when you w ,,rk for yourfelve*
you will readily .1W that the difwle it ro x li.
quors will be a grert favtng Ko your pUifcs. If y<, u
I want to know how'great, and infpcft your ac
: counts at the ti jidcis, if not iliento my ealculatien.
Sey the hay-season lasts, taking the after growth
into the calculation, one month, lay that you have
three hands to work—allow tbem each half a pint
of rtim each day. This will amount, by a tough
calculation, to lix gallons, which at twelve fhiHings
a gallon fur Wtll-lndti mm, would cost twelve dol
, lars, beftdcs (he expence of sugar. New-England
rum, it is true, would be something left, but bran
dy something more. Now the fuai of twelve dol
lars in thcfe hard times, w mid do many valuable
things for a farmer—it might purahafe three calves,
which would treble in two years. It would pay
the minifteiial, the town, the countj or state taxes
of a small farmer. It would buy many a comfort
able mattei for his wife whn (he blefles him with
the ri> h present of a sturdy boy, or healthy gid.
It might effect a valuable fwopin oxen, or perhaps
pay two or three small notes or accounts, or such
patt of them as may prevent the lawyer from mak
ing two or three bills of cot, each larger than the
original debt, and to save the favourite mare, or
the lik ly two year old colt, from being taken by
the fheriff, and fold for h.ilf their value at thepoft.
But some of you, fellow-labourers, drink strong
liquors when you work out as we do now, because
yoa fay they cost you nothing ; and you are ready
to call your employers stingy who wilh to discoun
tenance the use of spirits. You are millaken, my
friends, every gill of rum given to you by those,
who hire yoa, colls yo» much.
Sometimes it colls you a quarrel with your best
friends, fumetimes a bloody nose, or btoken limb,
and often n lawsuit, and ,bill of cost, or a fine up
on confi ffi.ui, before a juttice of the peace, tor as
sault an.l battety ; and often a long doctor's bill
for a disorder, which yru may riot, but the physi
cian knows arose from this very caufc of (hong li
quors. Sometimes it costs you the refpeft of your
t wnfmen j the regard of your children, and lo»e
of \ our wife. Sometimes your reputation is this
world, and I fear, your happiness in the next. Are
not these heavy colls, friends !
1 lius spoke Jotham Wiurow, to • gang of hay*
n»akers, in my uncle Jotham's meadow. The
whole gang immediately cried out, 44 Jotham Win.
row lias spoken •wifely''—They clubb'd upon the
spot, and sent aby to the next grog (hop for a
humming pttcher of flip, and ordered half a pint
more, than the usual quantity of rum to be ftiired
into it, and aH with one accord got tipfey by drink
ing the health of the wife'Jotham Winrow.
IMRI RIFLE.
The fourth of July was not noticed at Walpole
and the neighbouring towns in this, or Vermont
date, by the pageantry of a procjffion, or the
turbulent mirth of Convivial feafts. We cannot fay
that the day was celebrated, cither in the French
or Boston flyle, but foter/y, as my Lady Grace
fays in the play.
l.et laitd cnthujiajls rush in tlrfngs,
■rind madly rtnd the hurried air ;
li'ith b.iflerous toajls, and hiccup'd far.gr,
The honors of Genet declare.
Our decent farmer's, wiser fir,
Biefs Him, <wha gave theft halycon days,
And. calm as Washington in war.
In sober iilence Hiufe his preife,
S U I "C I' D E.
" For some have diedfor love, and some run mad,
And some <with desperate bands themfelvi's ba-ve fiin."
OnSatu day evening, the feeond of July, at Alilead
in this viciu'ty Joel Baker, a youth of eighteen ; died,
not in thecouri'e of nature, but by his own hand. Ei
amouredofa young woman in the vicinity, he addrefT
cd, and was rejected by her. Desperate ar the difap
ppintment of the withes of a heart, unfortunately two
iufceptible, be communi aied to the objetf Ot his' affeo,
tion, and to a few of his companions, his intention to
abridge a life, no longer glatifome. Their unbelief
gave him time and opportunity to execute the work of
death. He loaded j toulket—and pei*! filed premature?
!y. >
Though the voice of Religion must censure the un
hsllowed deed, yet pity weeps ■ ver the fren2y of pas
sion, and rrafon enquires why the noblest gifts to mam
(hould be fometimvs perverted, and tempt him to vio
late a law of his being, which none, but it* Creator
may ♦ake away.
' -- - . . —~—ip—
t- rem the (Baib.n) Ccntiml.
OF THE WESTON POSTS, See.
Mr. Ruflcll,
As beyond all doubt, the Wtßtrs Polls ate bt
this time in the pofleflton of the froops of the Ig
nited States ; and as emigrations into that part of
the repuhlic will donbtlefs be numerous; if you
would insert in the Ceritinel the following, you ma'y
do fetvice to some ot ynur fellow citizens; aid
will certainly amuse and inform qthers.
Yours, CONSTANTIUS.
EXTRACTS
From a Journey into the Wellern Territory,in '94.
" From Albany, I proceeded to Schenectady, fif
teen miles by llage. Schenetlady is a handsomely
situated little town on the banks of the Mohawitj
river. At this place 1 took an open boat, naviga*
ted by three men, in which I pafied to Lake On
tario, without any other interruption than two (hort
portages, one at the little falls of half a mile, round
which they are now cutting a canal; the other of
one mile, at Fort Stanwix, about one hundred
miles well of Schetuflady ;at which place we leave
the Mohawk river, and defceud the torrent to 01-
«ne hundred miles mor'e to the weft, where
the British hold a poll at the entrance of Lake On
tario, commanded by a captain. The high price
which hatters' furs at prclent command in the Uni
ted States, is the only inducement 1 conceive for
fmuggliag pa ft the poll, for cxcept a few articles
imported from the Ealt Indies, 1 found the retail
(hops at Kingftonand Niagara, felling as low, and .
many articles, pafticularly woolens, lower than in
the city of Philadelphia*
From Ofwego, rclTels fail to Niagara, King-.
Hon, and other ports on the lake ; but fettlera
more frequently continue along the fouthfhoreof
the lake to Niagara, about one hundred and twen
ty miles in open boats ; finding a reffel here ready
to fail for Kingston, I embarked ia bef lor that
place, about ti houraiail.f " Front -Kfngfton I proceed to Niagara, in a
'schooner of upwards of one hundred tons burthen
a.-rofs this little sea of frefh water ; a sea it may
jutliy be called, for we arc a great pan of the time
for three days out of fight of the land; though pas
sages have been made in twenty hours ; we enter
the Niagara river between the fort and the town
callcd Newark, with a beautiful profpeft of both.
« The fort (tands in a commanding fituatisn on
a point formed by the jun&ion of the rivar and
lake, upon the east (i Je of the river, and is a regu
Jar fortification, in good repair, and well gartifon
cd.
" The mouth of this river affords a f?fe and
copious harbour, fufficieatly large for half the Bri
tish navy.
" The town of Newark is situated in lat. 43
north, on the weft banks of the river, extending a
long the lake about a mile, enjoying in the summer
the frefh breezes from this little sea, in altnoft eve
ty direiSion, plentifully supplied with fifh at all fca
fon» of the year. In the winter here are caught
by fcins, quantities of white fifh, which seem to be
peculiar to that river, they are generally from two
to fix pounds weight, and are considered the bed
fifh in the lakes; betides these sturgeon, brass, and
many other excellent fifh, are in great plenty ; sal
mon are taken in all the creckcs round the lake ;
these varieties of fifh arc not only eftecmed a luxu
ry, but a great afliftance to new beginners in sup
porting their families, many laying in a half dozen
barrels or more for their winter's use.
" The lower landing or Queenltoa, is about fe
ten miles up the river from Newark, where the
Teffels difchargc their cargoes, and take in furs col
lected from three to one thousand five hundred
■tiles back, there I have seen four vefiels of sixty
and one hundred tons burthen, unloading at the
fame time, and sometimes not left than sixty wag
gons loaded iu a day, which loads they carry ten
miles to the upper landing place or Chipawa creeks,
three miles pad the great falls. From Chipawa
the merchandize is tranfportcd in batteaux to Fort
Erie, a diftancc of eighteen miles and are shipped
there on board of vessels for Detroit and Michili
mackinac. Detroit, I was told was a pleasant coun
try, through a low and marlhy foil, more noted for
its fur trade, than its agriculture.
M Niagara is at present the temporary feat of
government, confiding of a governor, a legislative
conncil, and houfeof aifembly chosen by the peo
ple ; here annually in the month of May, they
meet for the purpose of legislation. Members of
the afTem Jy are chosen sot four years, and havcal
lead fat three sessions.
'« The ftreights of 'Niagara, from its peculiar
ituation, being the channel through which all the
produce of the vafl country above mult pats, is look
ed forward tsMS a place of the firft confluence,
and where a farmer will at all times find a market
for his produce, the transport being easy from
thence to the Atlantic. Here have 1 seen with a
mazrment that famed catataft, which exceeds eve
ry defcriptioii I have ever heard of it, but it would
be idle in me to pretend to give you an idea of it
—It ftriltes the eye with more grandeur and fub
limi y than the jfn can convey. Among many
other natural curiosities, a spring about two miles
above these falls, attracts the attention of the curi
ous } emitting a gas, or inflammable air, which,
when confined in a pipe, and a flame applied to it,
will boil the water of a tea kettle in fifteen minutes :
Whether this may hereafter be applied by machine
ry, to ufefol purposes, time will determine. It was
lately discovered by clearing away and burning the
brush under the bank of the river, to credt a mill,
and was observed after the brush was consumed to
burn for days together, to the great aflonifhment
of the inhabitants.
" About three hundred miles weft of this fort
Detroit fittiate on the east fide of the ftreights, be
tween lake Erie and Huron, around which,a French
fettlemenr was eftabhfhed before the reduction of
the province, but attending more to the Indian
trade than agriculture, made but little progress as
farmers. The English fettlemcnts lately begun on
the shore are already in a high ftatc of cul
tivation, however the French have fine orchards,
from which Niagara is at present supplied with cy
der and apples.
" To the northward of Detroit about three
hundred andfifty miles, lies fort . Michilimackinae,
on aa island between lake Huron and Michigan, is
aboute five miles round, arid an entire bed of grav
el incapable of cultivation, but mod remarkable for
being the general depot and grand rendezvous of
all the Indian trader*, who meet in the month of
June from every quarter, delivering their furs and
receive their outfus for the ensuing year. Spanish
set lemeius many mihsdown the Miflifippi are sup
plied with British goods through this channel, to
mu h greater advantage than from New-Orleans
where the rapids of the oppose almost
Unfurmountablc difficulties t;i ascending it.
" This .fort, the forts of Detroit, Niagara, and
Ofwego, fell within the United States, when the
line* of separation were drawn, at the treaty of
peace, in the year one thousand seven hundred and
eighty three; fort Miami, which was built by the
British lately, is also within those. lines.
' M o ■ *34'
Diftrift of Pennf, Ivanin, to wit.
5 ) 13E it Remembered that on the 23d <iay cf May, in
•13 the year r>t ttie Independence of the Uni ed States
of America, Francis Sha'lluS, the laicl diiirift hath
dcpofitfd.in this office, the title of a book, the right whereof
he claims woprietor iu the words foMowing to wit THE
DISAPPOINTMENT, jor THE FORCfc OF CREDULI
TY, a new Comic :Opera in three aCls, by Andrew Barton,
E'q. ad edition reviled and corrected with large additions by
the author."
" Enchanting g,,ld ! thatdoft confpireto blind,
44 Mans* erring judgment and tnilguide the mind,
14 In search of thee, the wretchcd worldling goes,
u Nor dangers fee s, tho' friends of right oppose."
In conformity the a& of the of the United
States, entitled " An a&ior the encouragement of learning,
by securing the copies of maps.ckarts and books to the authors
and proprietors of such copic? during theUimes therein men
tioned. Samuel Caldwell, Oik. Dift. Penn.
I tic above Opera will be tubUfhci in the a>H r /c of two or three
July 2g ' J J t4 t
WANTED,
A SERVANT GIRL, or a NEGRO BOY in a
■l J- genteei family, who can produce pood recom
mendations,for whom constant employment and gene
ram wages will be giver}. Inquire ®f the printer.
July aa. „ it, .
Philadelphia,
-FRIDAY EVENING, Jolt 21, 1796.
La ft evening were married, by the Rev. Doctor
Andrew«, Mr. IVMiam Harrifun, jun. to Mrs.
Sarah Mi tier.
Extras of a letter, dated New-York, July 10th, 1796
" Reports ire spreading that we have the Yellow Fe
ver amongst us, and I believe we have had" a few in
stances of it, but do not find that it increases yet."
Several other letters from New-York csntain the like
difajreeablc information.
The Star of the ißth of May, the Uteft London pa
per brought by the Manehefter, fays,
" We are informed from very high authority, that
parliament will be prorogued to-morrow, and difiolved
by proclamation on Friday."
t —
The Letter bag of the ship Harriet, capt. Nor
man, for Hamburgh, will be liken from the Poft-of
fice at i o'clock to-morrow evening.
The (hip General Walhiugton, captain Perry, the
(hip Huldy, captain Warner, and the brig Frieudihip,
captain Trott, for Philadelphia, were advirtifed in
Gore's Liverpool Advertiser of May 19. The Huldy
to fail the 30th of May.
The (hip Eliza, captain Benfon, of Baltimore, has
arrived at Liverpool.
Extract of a letter from Madame de la Fayette, to
General Ferrarri, (one of the Emperor's Mi
nisters.)
" I am particularly grateful, for the regret you
express at the impossibility of granting my requests.
I made them 'in the firft instance to the cotnmaiicL
ing officer of Olmuta, because hit Imperial Majesty
had told me to address myfelf to him—l made them
in writing because 1 had no means of feeing him.
" I asked 111. Permission to go to mass, bccaufe
1 ought to do every thing in my power to go to it.
On Sundays and hollidays.
" 2d. To be attended accafionally by a servant,
because having learnt when at Vienna, that M.
Bournorville, Camus, Bancal, and others, Con
ventional prisoners, who had fervanta, enjoyed here
the libetty of feeing them all the day long, I flat
tered myfelf-that the fame favor might be granted
to me for fomc momenta.
" 1 have also asked that M. de Maubourg and
De Puay might pafa some houra with tia, because
in the difjrrent prisons of France, in Robefpierre'a
time (where, aa yeu know, I have 'pasTed sixteen
months) I waa in the habits of feeing the prifonera
communicate with each other.
" 1 beg pardon, for having in thia vefpefl allow
ed my confidence to carry me too far.
" I confeft with great pleasure, that we agreed
to paticipate all the rigours of M. de la Fayette's
prifon,and that this was the only favor wc appli
ed for. Our sentiments aro still the fame, and we
repeat with all our hearts, that we ire happier with
M. de la Fayette, even in thia prison, than wc should
be any where else without him.
" To juftify, however, the liberty I have taken
with you, I will remind you, fir, that his Imperial
Majesty in the audience he war pleafcd to grant me,
had the goodness to fay to me that " 1 should find
M. de la Fayette very well treated, and that if I
had any request to make, I ihould be well fatiafi
cd with the commanding officer."
" I have also the honor of reminding you fir,
that hia Imperial Majesty permitted me to write
dire&ly to himfelf, and toaddrefa my letter to the
Prince of Rofemberg ; and, aa since we have been
shut up, I have been utterly deprived of the means
of writing to the Emperor, or even to Mr. Rofem
berg, I conceived it ray duty to addrefa my te
quefts te you, and beg you will excuse me, if they
have appeared fomewnat exaggerated to you.
ARRITEB AT THIS PORT.
DAYS.
Brig Jane, Lillibridge, Ncw-Orleana >8
Sally, Stubbs, Jamaica 35
Betsey, Holt, Kingilon 25
Sch'r. Sally, Hitchcock, Demcrara 23
Nancy, Town, Jeremie 18
Betsey, Whfte, Virginia 5
— Kitty, Shaw, North-Carolina 6
Sloop Betsey, Colburn, Richmond 12
Mary, L'Hommedicu, New York 13
Arrived at the Fort. -
Ship Sally, Wickes London
Sch'r. Sincerity, Copia Aux-Caycs
Sloop lnduftry, Dillingham, St. Bartholomews.
1 Brig Simons, from St. Jago, (Island of
Cuba) is arrived at the Fort.
A ship, said to be the South Carolina, was in
Cgbtthis evening; (July 21.)
Captain Frost, of ship Molly, 64 days from Li
verpool—spoke 22d June, lat. 42, long. 53, (hip
Fox, Dackray, from Savannah to London, 16 days
out, all well.
25th, lat. 40, long. 62, spoke a fchooncr from
Wifcaffet to Liverpool, 16 days out, name not
known.
July 17, about 10 leagues from Cape Henlopen,
spoke (hip Seaflower, Boland, from Philadelphia to
Havre, with a number of paflengers on board, all
well.
14 PafTengerß came in the Molly-
Ship Success, Babcock, from Bourdeaux to
Philadelphia, was captured on the Btb inft. by the
British frigate La Raifori.
Tbe'orig Twins, Keelerfrom St. Croix is in theri
yer. >
Arrived at St. Thomas's fchooncr Expedition from
Philadelphia.
Capt. Peirce of the schooner Delight from Porto-Ri
co arrived at tile Fort—in lat. 28 was boarded by two
French 84's and a 50 gun (hip from France —they were
fleering N. E. under easy fail.
Scl:»oner Dion, Capt. Doyle for Philadelphia from
Aux-Cayes is taken by the Argonaut and sent forKiagf
ton, Jamaica.
BY THIS DAY's MAILS.
BOSTON, July 16.
No particulars of the late engagement heard off
the bay have tranfpiied.—There are three French
frigates on the coast, the Concorde, the Infurgcnt,
and aijoiliyy ,
t< was repo-ted yesterday, but upon no account
able authority, that the Concord French frigate had
captured the Hnffar British frigate. It 13 not im
poffiblc but that the report may be founded on
truth.
Yesterday arrived here the French privateer A
onor de la Patrie, from a cruise. She has sent in a
piize.
. emigrations to the United States increase in
; maugre the {ombre (hades thrown
over her eharafler and prafpefts by the diforgauiz
ing faftiori.
1 FROM ST. VINCENTS, June Is.
ExtraS from a teller.
\t may be interesting to you •to know how
thing! go with the French and Engliih. St. Lu
cia is totally >in pofleffion of the former; they
ftorm{;d tiie forts, and succeeded in carrying them.
Some!negroes, and naturalized French were hang
ed, ajid some brought to this place for the fame
purpdf-. -The commander in chief, Sir Ralph A- j
bercrombie, arrived from thence to this place, seven j
days ago, with part of the forces to retake the |
windward fide of this island from the French and
Charibs, who have had pofleffion, a long time palt.
On the 10th at sunrise, the British commenced
tbeir ajtack with 4,300 men ; at two in the after
noon they stormed and took the old fort, and three
redoubts between It, and the new fort", About
three the firing eeafed ; and a flag of truce from
the French came in.—Finally it was fettled to sur
render all the pofleffions.on the island to the Bri
tish, and the French prisoners to receive the ho
nors of war. Those who were natural fubjefts of
Great Britain, and had.joined the French,' were
to be at the discretion of the commander in chief
—as also those negroes who fled to them. The
Charibs, however, in the night, as well as, the
plantation negroes, got into the woods, and a bo
dy of rangers and riflemen are-after them. On the-,
lith, at 3 o'clock, P. M. the prisoners came in,
and were conveyed on board the different (hips in
the harbour. Such a (habby set I never beheld be
fore. Thejr amounted in all to above 400, out of
whom only five or fix were white men ; the others
were negroes and mulattoes. They were com
manded by a negro, who had a French commission
of Captain, as had also many of the other negroes
and mulattoes. They came into town with their
fide arms, and (omitting the balk of the prison
ers, who were (the dirtiest and most ragged crew
under heaven) appeared decently dreft in their uni
form."
• The English successes in the Weft-Indies, have
n«t been equal to the immense expense of blood
and treafurc lavished to attain them. In one action
at St Lueia, we are allured by a correspondent,
they loft fix hundred mec.
Notwithftsnding we are not able to lay befor.
our rearers this day, the report of Marbois, an
nounced in eur lalt, we can aflure them, that even
a Hamilton, whose knowledge of the law of nati
ons, wliofe talents and inveltigation, and uniform
candour and liberality are univetfally acknowledg
ed, could not have vindicated the rights of a neti
tral nation more forcibly, nor have condemned thr
G?net}n conduct adopted in the United Slates,
with more effcift.
The French Directory ar* clothed with much
more powei-than the Piclidcnt of the United States.
Befid«s appointments, in which they have not tc
advise with a Council or Senate, they have the re
gulatiou of the armed force of the Republic ; and
tliey have lately encreafed the number of polie bl
ditrs, of 'those they have at their immediate com
ihand to execute their order, to 13,000 men.
Arrived (hif\ Eagle, Capt. Swcst, 40 days from
Lilbon, via Marblehead. Spoke July 2, brig Blos
som, Capt. Mark Pool, bound to Hamburgh, 7
days from "Boston. Left there a brig belonging to
Mr. Parsons of this town, had loft her inain-maft j
snow Ann, and Mary, Smith of Philadelphia ;—
fchr. ——, Gale, of do. July 9, capt. S. was
brought too by the English frigate Raifon, former
ly a Freneh ship, Cape La Havre, bearing N. by
E. 15 leagues, they had a ship in company that
they had taken the day before from Bouideaux,
bound to New-York, captains name was Babcock,
he had a number of French paflenger* on board,
July 10, was palTcd by two more frigates, one of
which brought him too, and meant to have boarded
him, but.upon his telling him he bad been over
hauled the day befor*, by the La Raifon, he was
then fuftered to pals.
Arrived at BREST, 7th Floreal, ApHl 27.
The Sea-flower, eapt. Cromby, from Hamburgh.
The Fame, of Boston, capt. George Cunning-
from Havre.
The Minerva,of New-Yoik, capt. K. Eldridge
from Havre.
The Commerce of Baltimore, capt. John Brown
from Havre.
Sailed from Brest. The Sally of Boston, capt.
Harlow, for Bourdeaux.
The Katy, us Boston, capt. Rides, bound to
Setubal, in ballast.
The General Greene, of Philadelphia, capt.
Hodge, for Bourdeaux, in ballast.
De Rouges of Boston, capt. Atkins bound to
Falmouth with exchange of prisoners.
. The (hip , capt. Blackington, owned
by Mr. Meffct, of Wifcaffet, lately foundered at
tea, in the English channel: the capt. and mate
and one seaman saved. We undefftar.d she was in
fU■.?' NEW-YORK, July 21.
Oil Monday last, was heard before the Mayor, a
complaint made by Meflrs. George Lord, and Sa
muel-Lord,,of the 7th ward of this city, carpenters,
against Geo. Tibberths, one of the cartmen, who
drive* No. 28, for a fraud. The following is a
Uatement of the fa&s which appeared upon the
examination : That Mr. Tibberths was employed
by Meffirs. to cart two loads of plank from
the Albany bason at the north river, to the Bowe
ry, for which cartage, Messrs. Lotd paid him eight
Shillings : That Meflrs. Lord, as ufsial; intruded
bim with the monies to pay to a captain Martling
the amount of'hi» bill for those plauks 5 that upon
such payment, Mr. Tibberths demanded of him al
so eight (hillings for the cartage ; that Martling at
firft tefnfed,but Tibberths peremptorily infilled up
on the paymeat thereof, and capt, Mattling then
paid him th« sight ftiilliaga j. that tipoi) it* beisg
discovered by Meflrs. Lord that he'SiiM ... >rted
payment from capt. Martling alf . ' uad
returned the last mentioned lumßl* Ma;
Upon this statement of facts. the M;. ; or
(iifplaced Mr. Tibberths from the office of a cart
man of this city.
Arrived at ih'u Port.
Sch'r Regulator, Allen Richmond, Vir.
New Adventure, Harrington St. Thomaa
Sloop Commerce, Johnson New Providence
Franklin, Rufleil Petit Guave
PORTSMOUTH, (N. H.) July 14.
Arrived la-re the Sdioor.er Aflive, Capt. Samuel
Cuttt, in 11 days si.mi Port-de-Paix. Left there the
brig Frieudfhip, Capt. Kipley, of Philadelphia. Schoo
ner Harriot and Ann, Capt. Ruler, and Schooner John,
Capt. Stewart, of Charleftsn. Sloop Scftib, Capt. Wil
liams, Miridlctowu (Conn.) Sloop Cnfis Capt. Cook,
of New-London.—A Pilot boat, Capt. Jones fron: Bal
timoi-e. The Brig Friendship, and thefloops Crisis and
Scrub, were carried 111 there as prizes.
Capt Wells, of the Sehr. Success, has been waiting
at Port de-Paix, Upwards of fix moofts for payment
from the Adminiltrnion, and has reilmd nothing as
}t ' NEWBURYPORT, July 16.
St. LUCIA RE-TAKEN.
Last evening it was reported {hat St. Lucia wa»
re-taken by the French. It was received by an ar
rival at Portsmouth.
KINGSTON, June 16.
His majesty's brig Drake, and feboaner Port-
Royal, arrived late on Tuesday evening frum the
Mole. I
The Drake has taken and brought in with her,
a French privateer flocip named the General Thouf
faint,* and a French schooner l'Oifeau j the eom
mandSr of the forirer fays he failed from Port-de.
Paix with a commission to cruize agawft the En
gli h, and had also inftmftions to fend into that
'pott, all American vcffels he should fall in with,, la
den witl? provisions, which are extremely scarce
there, flour felling at 30 dollars per barrel. He
adds that they were in daily expedition ps the. ar
rival of Richery's squadron at Cape. Francois ; at
which place the mailer of l'Oifeau, fays that San
thouax and General Rochambeau arrived in the
ate armament, which confills of two fail of the
ine, five frigates, and fifteen transports.
The American schooner Polly,capt. Eafton, ar
rived on Tuesday evening, in 3 days from Si. Ja
go de Cuba; she had been taken by the priva eer
Rights of Man, and all her cargo condemned and
fold. The captain reports that a French pnViteer „
called Freboftic, a schooner mounting 2 guus, ij
cruiling on the outside of the harbour, which took
some days ago air Erglifh barque, and a brig bound
to this island off the weft end of St. Domingo;
these veflels are layinfF in the outer load of St. Ja
go de Cuba, and not permitted to enter. The
capt, likewise mentions that, a schooner privateer
with one only, and a pilot boat which fails remar
kably fact, and with about thirty men, are cruizing"
n the north fide of this island.
July gift, i 7 96.
The Members of " the society of
ihe Sons of St. Georg*, eftablifhedat Philadelphia for thead~
ice and afliftante of l-.ngliflmien in diftreis, are requclled to
a-tend aquartrrlv of the Society on Saturday the
iuft. at o ie o'clock, P, M. at the City Ta crn.
A HUMPHREYS, Sec'y.
N. B. Som-new members to be balloted for.. Dinner to
beoa thetableat 4 o'clock orecifcly. #2 —it
THE SALE OF
The TOWN, and OUT LOTS of the TOWNS
of ERIE, WhTERFORD, FRANKLIN
and WARREN.
A DVERTISED for sale by the State Agents, in the Phillu
l\ delphia Gazette and Universal Daily to be
Sold in the City of Philadelphia ; wiM Commence at the Ciiy
Tavern or CofFte-Houfe in Second-Street, in the said city, oa
Monday the day ot July inft. at 7 o'ciock in the even
ing, and becontiiiued by adjournment from day to day, Irom,
1 s o'clock at p®on, Oflril two o'clock, and from 7 until 9
o'cl« ck in the evening, ut)tii the whole of the said LOTS and "
OUT LOTS are disposed of. The condition* of faie will b«
made known, and the plans of the said LO IS and OUT '.
LOIS be (hewn at the time and-place of.fale.
By older of WUtium Irvine, Andrew EMic tt And
.Agent,. FOX, Auflitnuri
July 22.
DUTY ON CARRIAGES,
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT agreesbly to an of CongreTt of the UniteA"
Slates ot America, passed at Philadelphia, (he ftSik day
of May, 1796 ; laying duties on Carriagei, f»r the convey,
ance of perlons, and repealing the former afti for that pur
pose there lhall be levied, collected and paid, upon
all carriages for the conveyance of perforn, which frail be
kept by or for any person, for his or her own use, or to lec
out to hire, or for the conveying of palTengeri, the fereial du
ties and rates following, to wit.
For and upon every Coach, 15 dob.
upon every Chariot, la dols.
upon every Post Chariot, a dol 11
upon every Pott Chaise, 1 a dols.
up*n every Phaeion, with or without top, g dots.
upon every Coachee, 9 dols.
upon other Carriages, having pannel work above,
with blinds, glafiesor curtains, 9 dols.
upon four wheel carriages, having framed pods and
topi with ftcet fpiiogs, 6 dols,
upon fogr wheel top Carriages, with wooden or iron
springs or jacks, j dols.
upon curricles with tops, 3 dols*
upon chaises with tops, 3 dols.
upon chairs with tops, 9 dols,
upon sulkies with taps, 3 dais.
upon other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carriages, with steel or iron springs*
) dols
For and upon all other two wheel carriages, 1 dols.
upon every four wheel carriage, having framed poll*
and tops, and reftiug upon wooden spars, a dols.
The Coll fctora of the Revenue of the firft survey *f th«
Diftrift of Pennfylvaoia, Will attend daily, until the 30th day
•f September next, for the purpose of receiving ihe duties 00
Carriages, at No. 117, in Race or Saffifras street, in the City
et Philadelphia, at the house of Dnnel S. Clair, Esq. in the
County of Montgomery ; and at the house of Abraham Du
bois, tliq. in the County of Bucks; of which all persons pof
leffed of fuck Carriages arc deflred to take notice.
Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign distilled fpiri»
tuous liquors, that licences will be granted to them j one li
cence for carrying on the business of retailing of Wines, in a
lets quantity, or in Jels quantities than 30 gallons—and onr
licence far carrying 00 the bufineis of reta_ilingSpirituous li
quors in lefsquaptities than 29 gallons at the fame time, and
at the fame places, by the officers legally authorized to graus
such licences.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Inrpcclor of the Revenue ot the fit ft larrey
of the diltrift ol Paiuiijlvania. 4 \
Office of Infpeftion, at ?
Philadelphia, »>ft July, J7s6. > t 3# f.. Wo. 138. ]
D/v?r/V? of Pennsylvania : to wft,
•t rrmrmbrred,' that nji the t went v-fourth da v of tijaP,
.St ihe verr of the Independrnceof the U^irrd
States America, John Ormrod, '»f the aid Di'trift h-i'.h
deoofiied in his 'office the litle of a book, the right whereof !
he claims »j<s Proprietor, in.the wo r ds following: to wit
" fbort and candid Enqui-v ihio the proofs of Ch»ift's
<l divinity; in which D 0&01 opinion conceriii-.it;
'• CHriO is oecafionallv In alerter to a friend?
44 Bv Oh** Irs H Wharton, D D. of the
iPhilofophica! Society of Philadelphia.
" \\\ ofofver drnieth the Son the Tame hath not the Fath
-41 er. Let that therefore abide in you which ye have heard
*' ' rom the beginning :it that which ye nave heard from the '
41 beginning shall remain io you, ye also (hall continue in !
,c che s on and in'he father. St. Tohn, iftt.pift. c.*i. v.23,
« 24."
in eouforrrity to the aft of the Consrefs of the United States '
in i uled 44 An aft for the encouragement of learning, bv fe
cur ng the copies of Maps, Charts and Books, to the authors
and proprietors of such copies, dining the times therein
mentioned. '* S \MUEL C «LDWELL,
Clerk of the Diitrift of Pennf'lvania*
tajww
All persons having demands
•n ANTHONY ROLAND BUSSIER, are to
oring in their accounts on or before the firft day of Anguft
lext, or they will be excluded from a divided then to
-take ft ace. WILLIAM CH INCELLOR, - )
JONATHAN JONES, > Auditors
JOSIAH TWAMLEY, 3
. ft'y 7- »eod3t
For the use of Schools.
Twikins's Text, Round, and Running
band copies.
YUST publifbed % and for {ale by W; Yotjng, the cornerof
J y ccOnd and Chefnut ffreets. and J Of-mrod, No
Cbcfnut-ftreet. Price of proof lmoreifioms on fine paper. 1
dollar. Common, 75.cents. Executed in a ftyje superior
to any that have been formerly engraved in the United States,
and dot inferior to any of the kind imported fr«m Europe.
_Jun^o ? ~< y. ... . . , t , :
JOHN PAUL JOiNEb.
INFORMATION is hereby given, that the late John
Paul Jones was a proprietor of live (hares (amount
ing to about 5867 teres) in atraft of land purchased by
the Ohio ! ompany, in the territory of the United States
of -\menca, north-w4ft ef the river Ohio ; and that his
heirs, or legal reprefetrtative, on application to the direc
tors ©f said company, at Marietta in the territory afore
faid, will receive a died of the said five shares, or rights
of land.'
The application maybe madeperfonaHy or by an agejt,
but proper docuuielts fault be produced to prove the |
claimant or claimants the legal heirs or rcprdentative of
the said Jones
N. b. As it isnotkucwn in what country the person
or perfonsintereftpd rofide, it will be an »a of benevolence
in every Printer in America and Europe, who shall infelt
thisadvertifement in his paper.
In behalf of thcdire&ors of the Ohio Company,
RUI ; US PUTNAM. I
Marietta, May 10,1796 [June 4] 3»wqw j
AN EXTENSIVE ASSORT M F.NT OF
Books and Stationary,
Wholesale and Retail, now opened and for Sale by
WILLIAM TOUNG,
BptiJeJler, No. 52, Corner of Second,and Che/nut-ffreets.
AMONG which are English, Latin, and Greek
Classics and Dictionaries, Divinity, Law, His
tory, TRAvtLs, Vovaoks, Miscellanies, and themoft
elteemed Nov^s.
WRITING AND POINTING PAP?.RS,
From the belt nianufafturers in Europe, and from his ma
nufactory on Brandy wine, viz.
Imperial,plain and wove fUtSmall folio post, plain
Super-royal do. do. Ditto gilt (
Royal do. do. BlofTem papersfferted i
Medium do.de. Transparent folio post
Dfcfhy do. de. Sup»rfifleandc«mmoiifoolfe.
Glazed and hot-preffsd folio Marbled papers.
and 4to extra largr post coarse papers.
Thick post in folio dito do. London brown, affortej
Ditto in 4to. ditto do. HattCTs* paper
Folio wove post, lined Stainers' paper
ditto do. Common brown -
Ditto gilt do. Patent (htathing
Common size folio poll Bonnet boards
Ditto quarto, plain Binders' Bo«rds.
Folio and quarto post, gilt, I
slfo, 9 variety of other Stationary Articles, viz. . \
Wedgwood and glsfrphilofophiealink <lands, well affoU- • -
ted; pewter ink chests of venous sizes ; round pewter ink j
flai ds; paper, brass, and polished leather ink (lands for the
rjeket. Shining sand "and fanfd -boxes, pounce and pounce
■xe>, ink and ink powder. Couminghoufrand pocket pen
knives of the belt'qtfalUy, ass (kin tablet and meraoianHuro
kooks. Red and colored wafeis, common size, office ditto.
QuiUs. from half a do}rar, to dotlars-per hundred.
Slack iead pencils, mathematical instruments, Sec. &c.
All forts and sizes of Blank Books, ready made or made
to order. Bank checks, blank bills of exchange and notes of
hand, cxecuied in couperplite, bi Is of lading, 'manifefts
feainen's articles and journals, &C. Sec.
June 18 2»WjW
't'h'is t)ay is published, •<
BEKMMIN DAVIES, No. 68 High-ami,
And -
WILLIAM CC3BETT, Secoud-Jlrett, Chrijff |
'Church,
The Second Edition of 1 ,
Porcupine's Bloody Buoy,
With additional Notes aad a- cdpiaas Appendix.
July'i l
The PANORAMA, ~
IN High-flreet, exliibitlng a view >■ of' She cities ofLon- 1
doh a id Weftminf.csr; will poutively dose on Tuesday
evening, the 19th inltaot, and Will fiot'be exh bited in '
Philadelphia'.'gain. I
T" ! V 6t !
Philip Nicklin 6c Co.
HAr.B FOR. SALE,
SouchoiTg -
Hyson Skin )
Young Hyson > i'R'ESH TEAS
Hyson and \
■Imperial '
•Yellow Nankeens
China Ware, aflorted in Boxes tad Cherts
Quicksilver
Uaiidanuo Handkerchiefs of excellent quality ; n
d^efts
L ndon MarL-rt MA'I>BIRA WINE
-London particular 5-in pipes, & :
New-York Market ) quartcr'cafki
Tereriffe Wine and hog&<«ad»
Sugar Camly bythc liax 1
Sail Canv&s No. z
Lead in iheets
3 Caflw of Cotlery aßorred * *
A few thefts of Mjufhtftw Goods, afTorted thick- ,
frt", c::ds, ftrtped Na.ifcecH*', &e.
3 Small pa; ka;e» of black fewing-Clki
8 Tierces Snake-rout.
-Nails aborted in ojt&s
I» l Y '* mwftf (
FOR S AJ, E,
\ very Valuable
a \ M.ED r!V7T T. E K r ,Tt AM y fin iff in
to wnship of ITpp »r T>erby, and county of n.'lrur r %
7 .1.-4 niles from Ph»lad Iphia, and half a mile,from th
, new Western road containinfr 2 acfes of excellent land.
s 15 0/ which *re grood *y.iter"d meadow, 90 of prime vood-
land, and the refl of tlii firft qui;ity. There aire <
' on the praroifesa tvro flory brick honfe, with 4 roo v.«
on a floor, and cellars un<!?r the with a pup-P j
of excellent water in front; u. large fr*mc ba'-n, 4abl
and other converient buildin?*s ; a fmoke-houfc and {lone
1C spring-house ; two fjood apple orchards, and one of peach
r, es. The fields are all in clover, except tliofe immediately
j, under tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advantage
of water in each of them, whicK renders it peculiarly con
:s veriient for erazin#.
The (ituation is pleafunt and healthy, and from the high |
s cultivation of the land, the good •neighbo'irhood, and the
n vicinity to the city, it is very fuitaSlc ifor a gentleman's
country feat.
The foregoing Is part of the estate of Jacob Harman,
_ deceafcd, and offered foe falc bv
S Mordecai Lewis,
Q o<sl. 9. go.] Surviving Executor.
ft- ~ P R O P O 6 A L T,
0 By BIOREN & MADAN,
For publishing by Subscription, that celebrated Work,
5 Godwin's Political Justice.
From the last London Edition.
T F. R MS.
I. It will be publilhed in twe large volumes,duodecimo,
n. Price to SuhfcriSers,ttvo dollars, handfomdy bound,
to l« paid «n delivery of the work,
111. As fooa as a number of Suhfcribcrs appear, fuffi
if' cient to defray the expci.ce, it (hall be put to press.
1 IV. The names »f the Suhfcribcrs Hull be prefixed.
1 'ill following Character of this work
r is extra&ed from the Monthly Review, p 311, 311, for '
'' March, 1793. j
" \Vc have no small degree of pleasure in announcing
. the present work to our readers ; as one wh ch from the '
freedom of itsenquiry, tke grindeur of its views, and the
fortitude of its principle, is eminently deserving of atten
-3 tion. By this eulogium, we would by no means be under
- flood tofubferibe to all the principles which these volumes.
f contain. Knowledge is not yet arrived at that degree of
» certainty which ts requisite, for any two mcil to think a
s like 00 all fuhjeits; neither has language attained that enn
- fiftent accuracy, which can enable them to convey their
- thoughts, even when they do think alitee, an a manner pet- u
3 IfeSly correct and intelligible to both. These difficulties
are only to be overcome by a patient, inceffar.t, and bene
, Volent in^eftigatisn.
: | " Many of the opinions which this wor!ccontains, are
f'] bold ; some of them are r.ovrl; anafomedocbtlefsare er-
I roneous-—but that which ought to endear it even to thofc
t , whose jn-inciples it may offnid, is the of argu
: J pent adduced in it to prove, tViat peace and order nioft ef
: fcstuallv promote the happiness after which poiitiral re- ■
j firmer* are panting-;—that as the progress-os knowledge
1 js gradual, political reform ought n®t to be precipitate
j and that convulsive violence is dangerous not only to tpdi
j viduals (for that r fult comparatively would, be of fmail
Recount) but to the general cause of truth It is the op
pofiteof this principle that infpirct the ensmiesof politic—
» enquiry r/ithfd much t<--ror ; it is the fuppofttion that
thange inuft inevitably be attended by the turbui-nce and
injustice of commotion; a.n.l that innovation cannot be
tnade without the interven ion of evil.s more deftrmftive
than tl.ofe wluch are intended to be reformed. Under the
(lorvitftion of this philanthropic fenfiment, of calm and
(gradual reiofm. (which in its proper place he has fully i!.
u Urate J) Mr. Goowiw proceeds without scruple firft to en
quire into present evil, through itscff.ntial branches, and
hejit to demonltrate future good. . 1
" "Dividing his work into eight books, and makihg the
IMPORTANCE or rOLITICAL institutions the fubjeA of
the firft, he begins by an attempt to prove the omnipo- -»
tence of government over the moral habits of mankind;
Mid that on thcte moral habits their wisdom, virtue and > ,
felicity depend."
%¥ Subscriptions received by the publifhcrs at their 1
Printing Office, back of No. 77 Dock-llreet, Philadelphia.
Jnne 18
Asjheton And James Humphreys, ol
conveyancer's, fr
HAVE removed their office to No. 61, Walnut-street,
next door but two to the corner of Dock-flreet
where all INSTRHMKNTS IN WRITING are drawn at H
a moderate charge, with care, accuracy and difpatch-.
They likewise huy and fell Real Estates upon cominif- C
fions, and procure Money upon Loan on good facurity,
The bufmefs of an ATTORNEY AT LAW and NOTA
RY PUBLIC is also tranfafted at the said office as usual
l»y ASSHETON HUMPHREYS.
N. B. Good Notts dilaourtted.
j- • co6w
Ten Dollars Reward.
Ran away,
rTNE-jjd, from Brian M'Laughlin, living at Henry 'n
Clymcr'splace at Schuylkill point, a Youtij Woman,, m
who passes by the name of Pollt Morkmon,- low set, fa
darkish complexion, .fnaall grey eyes, about seventeen or e "
•eighteen years of age, had on a dark-colored lhort gown, Jo
and linfey petticoat. She flole and carried away a trunk
and a corifidcrable sum of money, and r great many other
articles. X.eft behind her a cloak of coating lined with ""
green bai*e, which is supposed to be stolen. The owner,
by proving property may have it. Whoever lodges her in
any goal.'so that fhs may be brought to prosecution, shall ~l
receive Ten Dollars Reward. j
June 18 iaw3' BRIAN M'LAUGHLIN. of
Law Book-Store, c
No. 3 13, High Striet. L'
GEORGE DAVIS begs to inform his profeflional 011
friends, that per the Ceresjuft arrived from Lon
don, he has received the following fcarceand valuable
books. State Trials, 11 vol. in 6 and 11 vol. Ruff
head's Statutes at large, 16 vol. Woodi' Institutes, w
Cake's Entries, Kartell's do. Browne's do. Hearnes C o
pleader, Coke's jd, 3d, and 4th Innitutes, 2 vol. Roll's t h
Abridgment, Brooke's do. Bulftrode's Reports, Roll's
do 2 vol, in i, Floyers Proabr's praaice, Clarke's "
Adiair*lty, Rutherford's Institutes, Deiuology,or the
Eloquence and Lggic of the Bar. These with his very
large colleaion from Dublin now on hand, will enable '
him to supply an entire library or a fnjgle book, as it(
gentlemen may have occasion on then- immediate ap- tei
plica'ian. . »
J"'y iwIW 11
The Public are refpedfully "i
informed, that *11 business in the Une of a BROKER con- at
tinues to'be tranfaded at the office of the fubferiber No"
»34, Market-flreet, nclt door to the land-office, who re- di '
turns his thanks' for the patronage he has already been fa
vored with. ~
I-ands, lee. for fjle, in various parts of the United
.States Particulars of which may be seen on application H
Corrta numerical bo«k< will be kept of the Waihine
ten and Canal Lotteries, No. 2, and Information givoi D<
where tickets may be had w -
Money procured on good notes at the ffiorteft notice. tiv
XT T> A , n- MICHAEL GILL!
A complete affcrtment of Patent BOLTING
CLOTHS, American cvan»fcaMrc. Julv %. f« swlw
To be Sold,
At No. ii 8, North - 1 ' \ <vv£ bs. J °f
i'-y? Aho 'hec&xifs in ibis CM v.
"IpR. WAFERS erf ihr rcja**t w-ns *»l
• ffKi* F'otl ihf* 'liimi:! b ; >>iv", ss fe <iccii ta I) ' ' L'SH ■
'• P?ftKtN-S, by , wi'ii in »«! dtr«';bo«» ue
csla*y 4 -7- t>c Draper* Phi* mode of trcartn'Tit :s p rtiC'J
*" larv u r dfij) in pains iijLt'te he: ! 'ace, h. brca
] fide. b*ck rlieif* .'t*Xn3, recent &e. See.
f Nu*>j>hlUw&ijc the utility <jf •*»« it nV P•-
ll i fumrd but there a:c O'f "s in A'hi h this and every oiher
s, rem -Tv ma'v fametimcs fail.
e '8, la,v
y War-Office of the United States,
f e May /jth, 1796.
following R.ii!es, explanatory of those jwblilU'd
' the 15th February, 178 ;, are 'o be o iferved by all
; persons entitled to Lands, ill purfu-see of relolv'ett of
Congrefi
s Every certificate of the acknowledgment of a deed 01
power of attorney, either before a notiry pu'Jicor other
1 ' magiP.rate, malt, in addition to what is ulual. set forth
that the psrl'on taking the acknowledgment is known t<»
the notary or other magillrate ', tor which purpose words
of the following import mul be mfertcd in ;he certificate.
" And I do Moreover certify that ;hc faia A B miking
this acV.nowte Igmont has been for ps rfcnaliy,
known to me."
If the notary or other m*gi'llrate has rcafon to believe
that.he is th person he represents hiirtfelf to be, he wil
also certify t.
Andifthe proof be made by a witn:fsor witnettet.h'* or
5 thej'iauft l'weartofome general toteof their knowledge ol
/ . him, which matter mull be set forth in the c.-rtificate ; and
' the notary public, or other naigiflrate before whom t.£
■ _ acknowledgment is made, rnull also set forth that tht wit
neis cr wirneffesnas or have been for upwards of
pcr cpally known to him.
If a jufticc of tht? peace is employed, the clerk <jf tht
court of the corporation or county mud certify that fust'
person isa the pcaee oi th county or corpora
tion as the cafe be, and that fqill faith is due to hit
® a>3s as fiich. JAMES M'HENIIY,
e Secretary of Wjr
Mdv .tt. la-'ji'n
I George Dobson,
y
* |3EGS leave to inform the Store-Keepers in Town and •
'Country, that he has rem .ved from Market-Street to
N O, 25, south Third-street,
where he-is opening a Large and Elegant AiT>rtmerit of the
undermentioned article*—via.
1 Superfine London Cloths and KerfeymcreS|
York (hire second Do. Do, ]
Elastic do. do.
Mix'd and Biuc Coatings
ITJannejls, See.
Ma'chefter Printed Cal'icoes, ]
London Chintz ditto,
B'ueand ditto Furnitures,
India ditto,
Lone Cloths. Baftas, Battil!as& Copjevrems,
4*4 9" 8 5-1 & 6-4 Superfine India Book Muslins,
4.4 and 9-8 India Hook Handkerchiefs,
4 4 and 9 8 Scorch ditto,
4*4 & 6-4 plain do Muslins, . " g
4-4 &6 4 B-i.ifh Jaconets, d
6-4 Briii(h Checks and Stripes, r
4-4 india do. do do.
4-4. ditto Chilloes, Madras Handkerchirft, See. » C r
A large afTortnnent of figue'd and plain Muflineta, J
Ouihinps, Dimities, and Stripe; Nankeens,
Fancy Wairtcoatings,
Giriyhams of the ftrft Quality, fubiea to Drawback,
India Nankeens, >r '
Men's White and coloured Silk (lockings. * 2
M 9 ,
For Sale,
A Valuable Grift and Saw Mill,
TN New Jersey, near the Forks of Little Egg-Harbour.
Th - c f r ' a fi*ty by fortj feet, two water wheels
and calculated for fonr run of Stone*, with screen fans
and boulting-cloths, &c. The Saw-Mill has two faw's,and
, capable of cutting five to 6 100 thoufandfeet of Boards per
' •J u ? b,e P' ece ef Cedar Swamp within a mile
and a half of the Mill, and within three quarters of a mile
of a Landing The Lumber, &.c. may be taken by water k
from the mill tail. ' 1
ALSO FOR SALE,
Several Valuable Tra§s of Land,
In Pennsylvania, for all of which payment will be rec-iv
eu in the notes of Meffr. Morris and ilfcholfon, or in °
For further information apply to the Printer.
May 17.' ' a*
£- ' . ; law
JOSEPH COOKE\ '•
GOLDSMITH V JEWELLER, ' t
* rnST W f rhi.d-ftreets, Philadelphia; Z
IVI 1 if y'H " 1 ' his friends and the pu'olic,
I ' th . at hc ha , s "«ived, per the last arrivals, a com- M
p.efe and general aflbrtment of almofc
Every Article in his Line;
Immediately from the manufatfures of London, Bir- vi
. rajPgham, and Sheffield, all of which are of the ncweft
faflnon, and w-.1l be fold, wholef.ile and retail, on the ow- si„
TohnNichol? NOt r- ° f Mr ' R ° :,Crt Morri, > and Mr ' »•
johnNicholfon received in payment at their current value, pn
V» A ,!l e "PP" P» rt °f the House in which hc now
lives to be let, furmlhed or unfurniflied. i aw CS
Lottery and broker's Office,
TN 9 64 South Second jlrict, lam
1 jlir TS r'| D the Canal Lotter y No., 11, are now tea- ? Tt
of Tickle ChSCk ?°° k ke P' for the ex Ma
Tk fu L r lzea !>aul, ™°«i deduction
any I a PP ti<:ation of *e P»hlie or '
WILLIAM BLACKBURN -
Lat e fn t for th f Canal Lottery Company.
„F,t" C ? n T '^« s in the late Nawpor' Lone
XL'S'ttr* Sch °°' otter y examined; aGI
this office Pr ' ZeS havi «g been received at -
June 6.
— w&s
Public Notice is given, S
J ° :herS Conccrncd in 'h* ft'pping ! l'
attend 'lW Or luarip-tine,l uarip -tine, that a Cart will ;f >
attend every mo.ning, lundayj excepted from ivr.*
ten oclock, at the Healthoffice, No, Walnut-Kre-t to an
It lsexpe&ed that the Baes, Eaten nr n ,i, 1 us
es with Applies will be dir&d Q f "the y ?f* "
at delfvery tam «"
- ■ : ' § cai
Iniurance Company of N a
=
will be paid to the Stockholders or their 5 7 " T:
tivee, at any time after the ~ in!Unt ''S" 1 "prefenta- F
t»enireair 9 ,
July I, ' ? BENA -^-HAZARD. s, c v y .
ra&tuitl '
For Safe, -
°f A'Few Caiks of Firit Quality
I i\ T DIG O.
' ' - Enquire at No. y\, South Water (frees!
May i tht ftf
GEORGE
G. H E V j S T,
lei No. 114 South Second Street,
f T \S for these two -/ears past introduced anewfpecies
_ Los PKitDVIAN BARK, called ViiLLOW
S\f?K, which 3fljer repeated trials iiy the principal
'hyficii is of this city, is now; preferred in all ea r es of
nportance that require it, to the belt Rsd and Paie
u '., lWk. It is i powerful Astringent Bitter, fits on
3 j the (lo.nach, is certain in its and requires only
aalf the ufDal quantity for adofe.
Many of the cuizeitj of Philadelphia are bow ac
vr quai-ited with its virtues, t/ie knowledge of which
rth ight to be extended over the Unicm. He has a large
:td <r>ply of the Yellow Bark, and a general alTortnient of
ris Orugs, Colours, Glass Dye Stuffs, life.
ltc LIKEWISE,
\\y Salt Petre, Jalap, and Camphor,
By the t^uantity.
;ve May 19.
FIFTY DOLLARS REWARD.
or
of VAN away from the fubferiber living near Church
nd Hill. Qu-en nns County in the State of Maryland'
£ :'oout the fir of January last, a black negro man, named
„ Sam, abbut thirty years of age,.? feet Bor 9 inches high,
has a crooSed finger on one hand, and »ne leg and foot
ftnallcr tljan the dther, fopiOWhat round shouldered, hls
J,t cloathinj; unknown. Any person who will foure »r
,c+. ~ri fald fe"ow home, so that 1 may get him agijn 0j»JI
ra hare the above reward with reafonahle charges,
hi. WILLIAM JACOBS.
T " nf "tawim.
Mr. V .(ANCIS,
~ (Of t'' e New Theatre)
TAKES this opportunity of returning thanks to J)|»
scholars and to the public. Mr. Francis intejids,
"io °" his fetarn from Maryland, to open a public aca
demy for dancing, upon a plan entirely new. if ¥
flatters himfelf that his attention to his pupils hi
he therto renders any profiles of conducing his future
schemes on the mo it liberal and terms, ©f.pro
priety, totally unnecertary.
A r . Private tuition as u'yil.
t'iaiis oTYhe city of Philadelphia"
Inclu.ling the Northekn Liberties and diftriA #f
Southwjvhk;
PuMilied, and fold by
BENJAMIN davies,
No. 6&, Mierh street,
( Price OHe dollar,)
THIS plan is '.h iiifhe fqtiare, and has been «,»
graved by o, e of the tirfl artists In the citv, from a lata
and accurate f .rvey. Purchasers are entitled t6 a pam
phlet with each plan, giving «-foms account of the
city, its population, trade, government, &c.
July .9 - _ _ L __ U & ftf
Cvoice St. Croix, St/g,/risf Rum,
NO VV landing from on board th Brig Willian Pen-"
iale b k orlus Halleday from -St. Croix and far
r Pragers fe" Co,
- Ju 'y '9- dlv*.
For Sale,
i' -®V Ifiac Mof-s aid Cn. >
I 37 Casks& a half of RICE,
r Low for Cadi or a short credit, also
e halted, ipriiiie winter Hides
! XT Enquire at Mr. Sears' Tavern, North Second St.
- • S9- h'y, 19- * d , t
PROP o S J L I
FOR CARRYING rut
Mails of the United States,
I °" ' : o* foll will be -ccom-d h 7 the Poiti,later
at Savannah, unul the fi-ft dav of Sep emb iext.
Fr " nSiva ' lr ' ,h by Sunbury to Vewport iJ, id-e, once a
Receive the Mail at Savannaheverv Saturday bni ) M ir.
riM p M - C
t Y „v, Retu ' ni "g- Newport Brld-epn Sun
cay by 3P M, a R d arrive at Snobby in the ev'eM», and at
» on Monday by 6 PM. '
t, F-dm Newoort Stidgeby Dane,, a«d Brunfwick to St.
• ,Marv's, once in t.vo weeh.
Recivethe Mail at Newport Bridge everv other Sunday
noon, wd arrive at St. Matv'. the rc« Wed.teMav by , P M.
Returning. Leave St. Ma y's he next day, Thursday by 8 \
M. aud arriwai N-wp "n B,iH g »the next Sand.y bv ioVm,
No-e t. , r either of the routes M'i-A
tnuanceof the-CHfraßt. the Coittia'Jorh to observe fich dtetationr
. tntarnmg the m'l, aniku pi\ it taii encrnfii 0 r dimhiftci in
, pmpvtwn to the dtjlancc entreafcJ or dininijhe.t by fiuh alteration
Note 1. rhej'mtraUt are to be in operation or. the tftt day of
October next. a~dt,i continue for four'years until the 30tk Sebtem.
ter, 1800, inclufi e.
N'»C 3 ThePojl Maffer. General max a'ter the times of arrival
and departure at any tim-during th-. continuance of the CmtriVs. he
pTeolojjly hlpulatingtn adequate coupenfttion for any extra eitpeajc.
that may be occasioned thereby.
Note 4. Fifteen minutes ska/l beal'owed for opening andcMir.g
the ir.au at tut offices where no particular time is specified.
No.r 5 Far every hour's delay (unavailable accidents excepted)
1' : r l 'r S - "J" r ,'if pr'fenbed 111 any contrail, the contractor
• /bat. forfeit one dollar And if the delay .ortinue un il t'e depart,
ore of any depending mail thereby the mailt deflined for [uch de
pending m ,I JU!I iofi a trip, the contraßor fiall forfeit tea dJtors
—to be deduced from his pay.
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Poft-Maltcr General.
General POBT OFFICE, J
Philadelphia, [unr 28. ijq6. iaw6w
LJrbanna Mill Seats , ~
Q ITU ATE in Cecil county, Maryland, on the banks o
1J the river Sufquehanr,a, about one mile above tide wa
ter, and commanding the water of that important
he channel conducing the trade of which comes so near
the Mill Seats as to make it convenient to speak the boats-;
and Mills may be so fttuaced as to receive them along their
walls, and bv water lifts take in their cargo A.
There is a power fu'hcient for many and any kind of'
ufeful Water Work*, and so much may be justly faitf in
commendation of this Scite as would bs inconvenient to
mfert in a newspaper publication.
1 hose who may desire to be cencerned, will probably
find tt cmfelves well pleased on viewingthe situation.
Leases for any term of years may be obtained on appli
cation to the fubferiber, living 011 thepremifes.
CLEMENT HOLLYDAT.
A P r " '9* lawjm
PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO,
—No. ug—
CHESNUT-STKHET.
[Pri«c Eight Dollars per Annast.)