„ v ... *"■ "vffF
'
of the Hmtets States , &» Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
NVMBF.* 1250,] _ SATURDAY* EVENING, SEPTEMBER 10, 1796. [Volume X.
Will be Landed To-morrow,
From on board the Schooner \Tollv, Capt. Mullet, /J/
Morton's Wbn f, }
jI Pipes of Coq-niac Brandy, 4th proof, . p.*
15 Hhds 4tb proof Ja-naica Rnm, ( entitled to " J
16 Barrels and 14 Bags of Coffee, ar.d f drawback.
24 Boxes of Aloes, J
' FOR SALP- B?
Wharton & Lewis.
JVho hff've also for. fah, Ro
40 Half pipes Madeira Wine, _i
And the fatd-Schooner, in
s s came f rom fa » burthen about 500
bjarreks if not fold in a >ew days {he will
take in fovif freight for SaL*m
Sept 8, 1796, . <*3
For Sale, Oi
Or for Charter to the We/i-lndies,
vfifc C E™R."'rt ,S,
Philadelphia Built,
OFJL,ive Oak r.nd Red Ce lar, burthin about 3500 bar
rels, now discharging at Latimer's wharf. Iliis ves
sel is in excellent repair, well fouud and will bear a tho- T
rough examination, andasfoon as dlfcharged will be iea- I
<Jy to take in a cargo. For term# apply to M
John Vaughan. he
■Jnly2B §
FOR* SALE,
£ga.- The (hip STAR,
" John Vanneman, Maler,
T YtNG a * Walntu-ft'.et wharf, Philadel
i_j phia built, of. live oak and cedar, will
carry about 3200 barrels, is two years old, and in com
plea order to receive a cargo—For terras apply to
THOS. fc JliIN K,ETLAW.
Who have also for sale fjinT v .itets cargo—conilliiiis —
Wine and Porter bottles,
W«ndow ass, 6byßto 16 by Xl*
Pipes in hoxfs ~
F.artben-;' are in crates
, Grindftor.es Coals, Whiting, &c.-
Aug. *9 $ : n
ROSS & SI MS ON, v
HAV Y Y f>R s LE,
E XCJI-LZXT FQURTH PROOF
Jamaica Spirits;
And to difpufe of.
The fine, fafl. failing fehooner
WK<miP' S « ALIO IV,
Of'Bal imore, about 140 tons bnttVen.
29. d '
■ For Sale or Charter, |
BURTHEN about 2000 Bbls. of flour—(be may be sent I
to f'ea at a iStall cxpence, her fails and tigging being in bi
very good order—apply to ci
- ' ■ r.' i' l I'if\£"_ . ill
Geerge Latimer. ■ p ,
April 2g, — tc
At - outh-ftreet wharf,
WILL BE LANDED, Friday, 19th inft \uguft,
by snow Hope, from Jamaica, and , sloop Sally, ■
from Port-au-Prince, 1
300 Hhds. COFFEE, v
70 Hhds. SUGAR.
Also, the cargo ef the SweJiJh brig Gttflaf Adoiphe,
capt. from Gibraltar,
tft and 4th proof Brandy, in pipes and hhds.
Haile.Not3.in sacks
St. Übes SALT) for sale by ,
PETER BLIGHT.
j —For Charter, •
feiiT't" Thefaid brig
I Gustaf Adolphe, I
£ v A Swede, with a Mediterranean pass, f
"" a very fine vessel, about 20A tons bur- c
then. Aug- 18. r
For Sale or Charter, i
.fj?— TiJE FAST SAILING SHIP
LIGIIT-HORS F,
LYING at Mess. J. &R. Wain's wharf, <
huijared and seventy torn, burthen, a stout, strong
vessel, and weU feund. For terms apply to
Joseph Anthony k Co.
Sept. I. ' dtf
" INDIA SALES.
ON Tburfday the sad inft. at 10 o'clock. A. M. wil[
be fold at the (lores of Willing! and Francis, a large
quantity of INDIA GOODS, imported in the Ganges,
from Bengal, con lifting of
3POO'picces Gurrahs
3000 do. Baftas, different kinds'
3500 do Coffas, do,
430' do- Humhums, do.
600 do. Patna hdkfs. for women
100 ho. Addatie6
to do. Table cloths
too do. Emerties
go do. Punjums
300 do. Fine Mulnuils
200 do. Fine Dacca bdkft.
1,00 <Jo- worked Muslins
100 do. Dereas
100 do. Book MuQin
joo do, btack and colored Perfiansor Taffeties
j 200, do. Bandaiitioes, chocolate, red and blue
quarter Hyson Tea of goed qaality
A o Souchong
The coarse goods will be fold by ti>c bale, the taffet-s
jfnd tandarinoes in lots to suit the purchasers, the teas by
the chest. The whole is er.titkd to the drawback,and will
be'fold for approved liotos, on a liberal credit.
•i-lie goods may befcen from the Ij thinft. to the day
trevicuti to the sale.
JOHN CONNELLY, Aaionetr.
Sip tember 8, , d '
.
C A B L E S,
f loin 1(1 to 9 £ inches, for sale by
'Jeremiah Warder,
§ Nc 11 north Th-flirdteet.
Mordecai Lewis ,
ms "OK SALE, ro
NANKEENS, Ion; and short. , r .
China, well assorted.
SgS* BO
Baftas. A
Coffas.
Bandano Handkert'oiefs. ,
Roll Brimilone.
Sept. 6. ' trStfim
Jift Arrived,
Id the Snow Boston, James Kirk pat rick, master from Li
-1 verpool, A
I jooo Bufbels SALT ; /]
100 Crate 9 QUEENS WARE; and
An AfTortment of SHIP CHANDLERY; J
FOR SALE
On board, at Pine-street wharf. Apply to
'James Campbell, or
Gebrge Latimer.
April 19. $
. Wm. HOLDERNKSbb, ,
No. 76 High Street,
' T TAS received, by the latest arrivals from Europe and
11 the Ead Indies, a well feleifted assortment of Silk
Mercery, Linen Drapery and Haberdashery Goods; which
he vhll fell, Wholesale and Retail, on the lowest terms ; w
AMONGST WHICH ARE,
Some fine India muslins em'oroidered with goldandfrlver
Superfine Book, Jaconet, and Mulmul ditto
Do do do do Handkerchiefs
Some extra black taffeties,lut«ftrings and colorsd Persians i
Bandano Handkerchiefs j
Cong and (host Nankeens
I Englilh Mantuas of the firft quality
Damaflc table linen and napkins, very fine.
Silk Hosiery, an cleg int assortment
Thead and cotton do
TJnArcltas—oil'dde. and dp cloth ,
French cambrics, verjrfihc - : *-
li-ifh' Linens, do. &c. Sec. June 14- §
■
FOR SALE,
WINE, Lif" 1 "," particular Mideira, 4 years old,
•n pipes and hogsheads
Claret, genuine old, in cases
in pipes, from Holland
Eafthen Ware', in crates
Baficet Salt, in hogsheads
Shot, Nos. 6, 7, 1 and 9
Ear Lead, Red and white dry lead
.'Steel, German and R«ffia, in barrels
Anchor®, cables, junk, bunting, tarpoliti canvas,
Tin plates—An invoice Stationary.' by >
THOM AS & JOHN KETLAND. £
July 19 > r 1 ' • M
.• - no
At a special meeting 'f the Board of Di
redors for eflabl'tfhing.ufiful Manufactures, holden
at Paterfon, July 8. 179^'
RESOI VED, That a fp-cial meering of the Stock- ~
holders of the Society be called on the firfl Monday,
in being the third ay of Odober n« r.t, at P ..terfon, by Kn
of the clock of the fame day •, "then and there to t ike
inlo_confi'dcration the propriety of dissolving th' laid 1
corporation, sgL££ aiJ T~* ,v 'k.- I*w in fijeh cafe made and
provided—ami—the btnckivjlder* arc r .tn-.-Alr
to attend the said maeting in person or by pfoay.. ,
~ August 17 dtjpthO
FOR SALE,
y j A Complete Font of Brevier,
TT'Ntirely new , and yet unopened. The weight.of this ■
J2j font is about 31a lb. It is from the Foundery of
Will'on & Sons,Glafgow,atld will be fold at cost & charges.
Also for Sfile, i.pair of Super Royal Chafes.
, e Enquire at the Ofiice of the Gazette ol th< Unitde j
States, 119 Chefnut-ftreet. Aug 19 §4\v .
C. — r ... le
A very valuable Meh chant Mill, if
A DISTILLERY apd BREWERY, and sundry STONE
qUARRIES to be let
I will rent my met chant Mill at the little Fails of Po
towmac, for any term not less than leven, nor mora than
eleven from the firft day of Septetrtber nest. The
mill-houf is 42 by 40 feet, three (lories high, built with
ft, (lone, and has in it three pairs of French Burr Stones, two
ir- over (hot 18 feet water wheels, and Evans's machinery
complete, with every other thing proper and necessary for
~ carrying on the business with dispatch, and at as little ex
pense as pofliblc, all io good order.—From the mill to my '
landing on the Fotomac river, (wherecraft, of any bur
then may deliver grain and take in flour) it is about 40 ol
yards, and from thence by water to George-Town and ai
arf, the City of Washington, about 3 mi|es, and to Alexan- p<
, n g dria about r 1 miles, This situation, aided by a fufficient al
capital, will command the produce of a very extenfivt k
back country, where large quantities of wheat and other 0
grain is annually made, the distance to it being from 8 ''
to 10 milts less than to any naatket town upun the navi- *
— ga'tion of the Potow ac. There on the premises a
large (lone Coopers' (hap, a (lone granary, and a commo
dious milltr's bouse. At the landing aforcfaid a bridge
I is now building nver the Potomac, which is in great for
rSc wardnefs and probably will be finifhed the enfuing,fall.
5 C3 ' There are also on the premises,' a Brewery and Distille
ry, built with Hone, in them are three stills, two coppers
or boilers, with every necessary article, all new, and in
good order, and fufliciently large to carry on the Brew
ery and Diflillery upon a very extensive plan. This prop
erty I will rent for the fame term of years.
Upon my laads adjoining the premises, and along the
bank; of the river, where craft may load with cafe and dis
patch, is an i nmcnfc q lantity of building and founda
tion Hones. Four quarries are now open, and as many
mote may be opened with cafe: the stone taken from these
quarries is better, and has the preference at this market,
to any other stone brought to it- I will rent these quarries
separately or together as may btft suit.
On the top oi the hill, and about 200 yards from the
mill, is a stone Dwelling-house, large enough for the ac- ,
comoiodation of a family : also, a kitchen, dairy, smoke- ,
house, &c and a garden, enC ofed and in cultivation, the <
foi of which is equal in goodness to any in this Hate. I j,
will also rent this property. (
Adjoining to the Brewery and Diflillery is a Smith's 1
etr.s (hop, in which is a complete set of BlaikfiAith's tools, I
by which 1 will also rent, and if agreeable I will hire to the
will tenant two negro blacksmiths, one sf them is a complete
workman.
day I: I rent out the stone quarries, I will fell three crafts,
which were built for the purpose of carrying stone : they
r. will altogether bring ilpwards- of 90 perch Immediate
poffefiion will be given; For terms apply to the fublcrib-
or in this town.
The Mill, Brewery and DiftiiMy, withtheir appurten
ances, will be delivered to the tenant or tenants in good
repair', and muftbe so returned, at the expiration of the
lease orleafes, ,
PHILIP RICHARD FENDALL.
t. Alexandtiti, Aug". iS—25
r 7 // ■- -
p O/? sjle, G
COFFEE, in hhds. hb's. & bagO
COTTON, of Demerara, and > entitled to dnwback
SOAL-LEATHER > 4nd '
Also, „ A 1
BOSTON BEEP, and Mould and Dipt CANDLES.
Apply to ISAAC HARVEY. ['n.
No. 5 south Water-street.
8 rtio.zo. Beii
Sa' es of India Goods.
The Cargo the ship Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cal- r
and Bengal,
l * consisting « - -
ALaTge and general assortment of feengal afl« Madras gy J
COTTON and SILK GOODS.
AMONG WHICH ARE
A variety fine worked and plain Muslins,
, Doreas, Isfc. Also,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar, bi
In tiosfes and bags—and BLAG& PEPPER., wife
For Sale by of th
WUlrngs V Francis,
No. ai Penn Street. tice a
lune 8 *
a French Goods.
Received by the Sally, Miltheß, frofa Havre-Je* the l
;!l Grace, x
1 1 C™" kS } I ' ad:cS ' SHOJES ® f aII co,ofs forts and nse ' mini
* x Ditto whitfirild colored Silk STOCKINGS rupt
I Ditto Fine I AWN be
I Ditto best fine CAMBR.IC
ns 1 Ditto Ladies'beft fnammy and Gre oble Gloves
For Sale by THOMAS & JOHN KETLAND. .
*" g - - * Th
Dutch Goods> bj
Received by the Per.nfylvcinia, pom Amjlerdam* j
-r---*" Gtxr lapses -j" . : uca
Morla.ix ) aarr
Ticklenburgs > In Bales pj av
Ofnaburgs j a
Id £ er T n t Stripes, incafi*
G » Hacrlcm J , true
Hollands ") jDUCK.tin ditto
Ravens J
Bedtic ks, in ditto
Brittle, > iD dhto Beir
Platilles j
For Sale by THOMAS S3* JOHN KETLAND.
AUg. 29 5
as. For Sale, can
A Three story BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefem dl^ c
street, between Front and Seco'-.d (Iriets, in which
MeffrSi James Calbraith M Co. have for man} yean (and
now do) carried on bulinels. j„ t
PoiLllioii Viil be gicen in one month, or sooner.
; For terms apply to WILLIAM BEI.L, or
• en " HECTOR CALBRAITH.
■April 21. §
;k- ' Or
A Book-Keeper, (
kt /AR Clerk'splace is wanted by a person properly quali
a ;d \ ) fii/d, and whose th irafler will be fotind uneiception- '
ujd able. Apply to the Printer. ,
ted Aug.-II - lf
•_ ' " To be Sold, —
A valuable Lot of Ground,
A T the fsu-.h-eaft corner of .Market and Front-streets,
, . \ extending on Vlakr.t-ilreet one hundred feet, to the S
tlu ' house occupied by R. Aitkin and Son, and twenty-five put
feet on FrOnt-street, with the buildings thereon—The wil
> es " corner houfe,-no.v in poffefiion ofjlimcs Stokes, is Well wii
known, having been many years occupied as the mer- J
chants coffee house. It is propoftd to divide the ground —
into convenient lots for (lores, for which, from its excel- o.
— lent fituatioft for business, it seems particularly suited; or,
if mod agreeable to pnrchafers, it will be fold together.
7,-. For terms- apply to
Israel Pleafants, or
Po Charles & Joseph Pleafants.
rhe s *pt- 8- dtf _
two , d\jty on carriages.
lcry _
'ex- Notice is hereby Given,
my. AT agreeably to an aft of Cong.refs of the United
3ur- # Slates of America, passed at Philadelphia, the 28th day
40 of Mav, 179S'; laying duties 00 Carriages, for the convey
and ance of perions, and repealing the former ads for that'pur
can- poie.—That (heiefhaN be levied, colleaed and paid, upon j
ient all carnages for the conveyance of perions, which thall be —
iftve kept ty or for any person, for his or h«r own ufc, or to let
ther ) oui to hire, or for,the conveying ot passengers, the Icveral du.
m g ties and rates following, to wit. »
a V i- ®" or u P on every Coach, 15 dols. *•
upon eve-y Chariot, 12 dols. cei
CS 2 tipon every Post Chariot, 12 dols^
upon every Poll Chaifey 12 dols.
upon every Phaeton, with or without top, 9 dols
" upon every Cwachee, 9 dols.
upon other Carriages, having panne/ work, above,
ille- with blinds, glasses or curtains, 9 dols.
pers upon four wheel cariiages, having framed posts and
iin top: wth lleel fp'ings, 6 ciols. , ac
e\v- upon four wheel top Carriages, with wooden or iron
rop- fpnngs or jacks. 3 dols. _
upoii curi irles with tops, 3 aols«
• the upon chaises wjth tops, 3 dols.
[(jif. upon thairs with tops, 3 dols. , 4 C
nda- uj-on alkies with tops, § dols. —
iany upon other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols. 6^
upon two wheel carriages, with steel or iron fpfings,
-kct 3 dols. jn
• 1 For and upon all other two wheel can ia#es, 2 aols. ef
rnts 1 upon every four whe<. I carriage, having iiamed posts
j and tops, and reftiug upon wooden spars, 2 dols.
the The Coll. florS of the Revenue of the ti Ift lurvev of the
' ac " DiftntVof Pennsylvania, will attend daily, one il the goth day
°^ e '" of September next, for the purpole o' rece ing >he dunes on
j the Carnages, a:No. 117, in Race or Saffafrai street, in iheCity
-• J !of Philadelphia, at the houtf ol'Daniel S. Clair, Efq in the cc
County of Montgomery; and at ihe homeoi Abraham Du- m
lith's bois, Esq. in the County of Bucks; of w ich all persons poi- 10
:00k, fetfed ol*f«ch Carriages are detircd to<ake notiee. et
3 the Not'ce is also given,
pletC TO all retail dealers in Wir.es, and forego distilled fpiri
r tuous liquors, that licences will be granted to them ; one li
r V tS ' ceoce for carrying on the business ot retailing of Wines, in a
they | e f s q, :a niity, or in less quantises than go g^llens—and one
, te licence for carrying on the business of ietailing Spirituous li
[crib- qiiot, in le(squan'-Uies than ?0 gallons, at the lame time and
at the lame places, by the officers legally authori*ed to grant
irten- (ucw licences. ,
good WILLIAM NICHOLS, '
f the Infpefior of the Revenue of the firft lutrey -
cf the difttiflof Pennfjlvania.
LL. Office of Infpeftion,at J V 3®
i Philadelphia, eift July, 1796. J
, ,1 I ■ , * ■ . ■—
Great is Truth and mu/t prevail.
_.. . j tr
: 1 JUST PUBLISHED,
Andftr fate at No- 41 Gkefnut-Jlrc. tby J. bRMP.ODf
An \po!o->y for the'bible,
By R. Watson, o. x>. f. h. s.
Bifl-bp of Latuiaff, I'Jc
Being a complete refutation of Paine's
Jlge cf Re of on,
Afl<i th<- only »nf«er to the Second Part.
Augufi .30. dtf
~ rffls -DAY IS i'VJ&i IsHkH,
* By H. it P. RICE, No. 16,. an* No.
50, Market ffreet.
A VISIT TO THE
* Philadelphia Prison;
BEING an accurate and jiarti ular Description of thfe
wife 2nd' humane AdminiiVration adopt d in every part
of that building ; containing also an account of the gra
dual reformation and prelcnt improved ft ate o| the Penal
Laws of Penofylvania ; with Oblfrvations on the iujuf
tice and impolicy of Capital pttnifhtrit nts. *
Together with an Appendix,
Containing tables of crimes, and'ijiKi tcrly ftarements
of the expenditures of the Prison, with the amount of
the labour of the cflnvidls.
By a Gentleman tf South-Carolina '
" Lay the axe to the mot and teach goverum-'nts hu
manity It is their fauguinary punifhm nts which cor
nipt mankind." °f
Sept. 7. d f*
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
[Price one quarter of a dollar]
tmbelliflud with a curious Prcnti sp i fCE, -
- The Adventufes of a Porcupine ;
Or the VILLAIN UNMASKJi I),
BETNG the Memoirs of a not» iou* Rogue lately in
the Britilh army, and ci-devant .iv-pi .or ot ai. e •• iJIR?
light nNCtRPO affcciation. in fcdglatflf Lonta. ng a
narrative of the i*ioir xtraorditHry -na unexanysl. ■ de
pravity of con uft p.rh .ps ever exhibited to the world,
n a Letter f> a yourik; geftflemai. in Ne -York.
* Thcfc tloi.gb are ilrange, but not more ltruftge than
tnie."
To which ts added,
A Bbftfcript to Peter Porcupine :
Being remarks on a Pam'phkt v lately pufelhtwd by him*
entitled, his." We and. Adventures.'
0. ir DANIEL DUTECTQf:,
u I'll tell the bold fae'd villain that he lies."
Sold by A. &J. G HekUersom;' corner of Relief and
Carter's Alley, back of No 77, Dock ftreet,'and by th«
different booksellers in this city.
ch Sept. 7- my,&l -■
n ' ! JUST P U BL'ISH ED,
And for Suit at the /hop of LVJLJLIAM CQBBETT*
Cppcfn-c Chfiji Church,
A PaINT, entitled
7ht SWAN and the WICK,
~ Or the Treaty of Amity and Commerce fcefnfully
rejeiflsd.
.. May it haJ 4 tbrfame flact~~
PORCUPINE, a p.int.
The BLUE S OP, a pamphlet.
A PILL FOR P. P. do.
The IMPOSTOR DETECTED, do.
Sept. 5 3' '
Evening School,
, ts No. 201, ARCH S7 A' i\ET.
the S. LEWIS refpeelfully inferms his friends and the
ive public, that his Evening School for Yoong Qentj-IMem
'he will commence on Monday, September, for ths
'ell winter feafoß.
er- Sept. 8. ' V °4 1
md —
St. Croix SUGAR and MOLASSES.
Landing from on board the fchooncr Little 1 An, Capt» 1
Thomas Dennett, at Racp-lir.-et wharf,
A choice parcel of St. Croix Sugar,
and a few hoglheads of MolalTes.
_ For Sale by 7
Praters and Co.
Augnft 3<S> ||[n . . . . dl ° ..
70,000 Pieces Nankeens,
j ed Of the beji quality and on reajonable terms,
la y v fOR sale BV
iur- Philip Nicklin & Co.
P™ Atigtift 46. dtf
d '« Lottery
F U " OR railing fixthoufind foe hundr«d and fixty-fevea
dollars and fifty cents, by a dedudion of fifteen per
ccntfrcm the prizes, and not twO blanks to a prize, viz 1
I Prize of 5000 d«llanis dollars 5000
1000 1000
t ,500
r SOO lOCO
ove, JO 100 acoo
, 99 jo 49J0
and goo ' i° co
zoo® fto,ooo
s Last drawn numbers cf 1000 dollars each, 5&00
Z33® Prizes. 44,4JO j
4018 Blanks.
63J0 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44,4 JO
ings, By order of the Directors of the Society for eftabiiih
•ng LMeful Manulaflurcs, the fuperintendants of the Pat
er.on Lottery hive requtfted the .Managers to offer the
p® os foregoing S«h;me to tne public, and have directed them
' to reiund the money to thoie perions who havj purchased
: '^ c in the tormer Lottery, or exchange the tickets for ticket*,
,'I ln this Lottery. , , • . ■„
' , riie lottery has actually commenced d. awing, and will
A,e continue until finilhed. ■. hit o. the Blanks and frizes
O U . may be seen at the office ol William Blackburn, No. 64
pot - I outh Second street, who will give information where tick-,
ets may be procured.
Dated this 17th day of June, 1796.
J. N- GUMMING, ~) '
>in- JACOB X. cIAiioEXBERG, > "lanagers.
e . h • JONATHAN HHHA, J
» n « J N dtf eo
-
r J _~j 1 1 ~
t»nd Waftiingtoii Lottery.
Brsnt8 rsnt TH£ Eighteenth and Nin.te nth Days' Diawing of
the W fhington Lottery, No. 2, are received at the office
No 2t4. Market-street, where tickets may be examined.
si, lnlormation given where titketi in ill the other
lotteries may be procure*.
Septen>hfr 8.It am the SALEM QAZETTE .Sept. a.
SUMMARY.
THE advantages to the allies were never more
equivocal, than at the present time. The French
emoy the pride of vi&ory, and enrich themselves
on the Seas, upon which they have been defeated.
The Dutch, against whom every thing ha* been
pr«di£ted, from Prussia at one time, and -at another
from the Statholder, from the loft of commerce,
from French tyranny, from the Scheld, and their in
terna! commotions, find ia their temperance, fruga
lity and '.ndvjftry, their former ample rcfourcet, and
the interference of their ally is only a* they require.
The appearance of Ruffian fleet in the Atlantic
announced, bat we have not yet been told to
afTociate (irror with the event. That they aw to
receive supplies from theji northern regions, ia all'
that has for some time been reported refpe&ing
them. They have not evea a part in the Solitary
captures, which are reported atgreater length, than,
the most important victories of Italy. From the
North we hear often that Rui&a threatens Sweden,
whom (he cannot fear, and yet dares not to despise.
•' And these angry negooiationi, which we know not
bow far they partake of private prejudices, are the
only works of fame, which have been atchieved,
since tWfc conquefl of Poland, by this great nation.
The Emperor does not appear to be supported by
the hearty concurrence of the Empire. From Ita
ly the French have entered upon his dominions,
while his General complaint that he can make no
refinance, or assert the independence belonging to
the name df the Roman Empire. His General on
the Rhine is publicly preaching against defection,
■while the Emperor is thought to be negociattng for
leave to negociate with his formidable enemies.
The Spaniards find spirits, they never felt before.
While the terrors of a French invasion were near,
and their forces which cowld l>e opposed were un
worthy of confidence, they had only deftru&ion in
their view. They had openly detelted the -princi
ples and the chaia&er of the French revolution.
They had inspired a general terror at their irsftilts
to the establishment of the Catholic Church, and
maintained a policy, which might dilative at the
name of liberty. ' They negociated, an<J they found
all their prejudices furmouuted. In no alliance
have they ever appeared more sincere. The French,
whom they reproached, they r.ow confefs have some
virtues, and some honoui. They have experienced
a genera* joy without convullions of the State.
And by the concurrence of the ecclesiastical pow
er of Rome,"have aceomplilhed wi'hout violence a
reformation of the religious orders. Their army
marches at their own will. Their 4eet is under
their own command, and thty are the meflengers
and miniilert of peaoe to their neighbours. Thra
new situation forces itfelf upon the public notice,
and is-a to >oiany infinuationt against the
French nation. The French incursions into Italy
may have some of the evil* of the Crusades, and
yet not be without greater advantages. Europe
has been more happy., since those bold a<fis of en.
thuiufm, and the bold claims of faperflition in the
Chrillian world may soon be no more. The Danes .
have conftimmated their prudence, and have paid
the tribute, to which greater nations submit, of Co
liciting-and purchasing apeace with Algiers. Even
in this age of light and truth, rhe policy of Europe
has fuffered a nation tocxift, vriiofe support is war
with commerce, Law is depredation, and
■whose tribute is for the freedom of the Sea. A
Grotius and a Selden exhauded history to eftablifa,
or difputt the dominion of the Seas. But the pri
vilege denied«by enlightened nations to each other
» surrendered voluntarily to the Barbarians of
Africa. This is not policy with morality. Eng.
land rides fecuieupon the Storm. Triumphant on
the Seas, and fafe from invasion, (he commands the
wars, which desolate nations. Proud of her mo
. narchy, and powerful in her laws, she defies her ene
mies. Her Allies fear to insult' her will, and
chufe to obey. Rich even by her debts, <he holds
the greatest icfources, and fiaurifhet in ware, which
make the world tremble.
AT HOME. We things are in peace.
1 ht tale from Wilmington refpefting the emigrants
who have fought our peaceful Hiorcs, demands , the
vigilance of the magillrate to punish the cruel ava
nee which has facrificed the innocent to its rapaci
ty. We are hippy to hear that this fubjeft has
gained the public attention. We learn, that Gen.
<— C. Pincknev is to succeed Mr. Monro as our
Ambassador to France, and that this gentleman
will do benour to his country. Jotl Barlow, the
hero of liberty, i» to be the American Consul at
rtlgiers. By the lad accounts, tlie mortality con
tinued in St. Domingo, but more in Port-au-Prince
than at the Mole. The French were in motion
against Jeremie, and the Enghlh were ceHefting a
force at the Mole. The French have little to dp,
while the ravages of disease are so cruel. Jamaica!
aus perhaps no part of the Welt-Indies is friendly
to the conllilution of the Americans, who visit at
this feafort.' Many deaths are reported to us. In
the States, the mortality has not been so alarming
as in some years pall. Reports from Charleston are
not so diltreffing, and we trust th t appearances ate
less thteateiung in (he different parts of out own
state. 111 oiii political affairs there is general quiet.
Some que It uns will remain to agitate the public
inind, and demand the national vigilance, and in
tlie rcfpedlive States there ar ( e fame temporary jea.
loulies. In the Tcneffe-, the Governor has con
■voiced tlie Affcrably <»» the fubjed of a difference
in the laws of the Union, from those which ex ill in
that Territory, in order to amend or petition. And
the late jffeffments of Rhode-island have produced
or been accompanied with competitions between
New port and Providsnce. But these are not we
trnft lei ious affairs. In Bollan, their rival Theates
have .drawn the public attention to the expence»
they create, and to the advantages which arc deriv.
Ed from them. It is agreed, thai the moral advan
tage? ought to he veiy great, to indemnify far the
pure bate. We hear fiom Philadelphia that a por
trait of Ri;te<iin;ufe may be yrefcrvtd for poflerity,
and that the public have thc oftcr from an ingenious
hand. rattiotilin is invaluable to all nations; and
one GiCIUwU us iflfpiring it is, gratitude to national
i r
benefa&ors—- to the friends of science and of" gov-,
ernment—to great men, and to inventive genius.
What patriot would not prefer impressions of the
heroes of hit country, from wooden blocks, to a
dorn his apartments, to the richest papers of China,
re the bed hangings, or the dearest ornamenta ? We
:h hope fitch worka will be encouraged, and that every
es apartment will-teach our children the history of
J. their couutry, frstn the most simple ornaments
:n which can adorn it. Let not France be more fond
tr of her rich colle&iepa, or England (hew the monu
e, ments of her dead with more geneiottt pride, than
i. America retains the love of all who have aided her
i infancy, and nursed her conftitutipn. Let every
id metal, and the variously moulded clay, speak her
e. gratitude, and Jet'her humbled fone live under the
ic countenances of her bed men. The good preacher
:o may then live with posterity ; the good magillrate
o publish the authority of th< laws ; the patriot may
ill' proclaim liberty i the artist inflame genius; and the
g immortal writer call to the petufal of his facied
7 pages, or the recolledlion of his wisdom, wherever
in hii name can be known. This is the luxury which
te virtue claims | this is the pride which education
i, may teach ; and this is the honour which Chrillian
s. ity haa fa»£iified.
>t ■ i
le COMMERCE OF LONDON.
1, The following (ketch of the Commerce of the Port
v. of London, is said to he taken from the mod au
y thentic document!, and supported by incontrovert.
i- able evidence:
s, Of the good* imported into London, the ex por
o tation, in the time of peace, bore a proportion of
0 four to twelve to the importation ; that is, one 3d
n part of the import was consumed by other nations}
i, the goods sent to various pans of England coad
>t wife not being included in this proportion of four,
s. Since the commencement of the war, and parti
e. cularly during the two lad years, both imports and
r, exports have confiderahjy increased: and the pro
-1 portion of tbt exports to the imports, has been
n much greater., The import* during each ot these
i- years, amonnted to about fourteen or fifteen milli
1. ons; in 1794, the export! of foreign goods amsunt
ts ed to seven trillions, and in (795, to upwards of
d eight millione.
te The value of the exports from the port of Lott
d don, upon average of three .years preceding the
:e war, amonnted to four millions. Their average
1, value since rhe war, is a third greater.
te In the above Ratement of value, the calculation
d has been regulated by the-ancient entries in the In
i. fpe&or-Genaral's book ; that is, merchandise has
i- been set down at the price it bote a century ago.
a To obtain the true value, eveiy one of the preced
y ing ftims must be doubled ; and it should be also ob
tt served, that the duty it not included in the edi
rs mate. *
ts The exportt in 1794., including British manufac*
», tures, amounted to above sixteen millions of these,
e therefore, nine millions were British manufadlures.
y The true value of foreign -exports was fourteen mil.
d lions t and that of the Britilh manufactures, proSa
e bly, in the fame proportion to their nominal price.
1. The effed of the deftruftion of Holland, in in
e creasing our foreign exports, is obvious, by, throw
is . nig into our hands the carrying trade, which it
d was once the greated -care of the Dutch to pre
1. serve; and the effed of the tuinous date of France
n is equally obvious, in the greater quantity of Bri
e 'tifh goods exported to supply the place of those
r commodities which France once furnifhed.
PORTSMOUTH (N.H.) Sept. u
' Perhaps the olded man living never recolle&s To
r sudden a tianfition in the weather, to have happen
j- ed, as since Monday last, when the thermometer
flood at 90, Tuesday forenoon at 86, afternoon fell
• to 64, and in the night to freezing, and on Wed
s nefday morning ice was seen in several parts of this
town of confnJerable thickness.
During the tail week was seen off Portfmouih
j harbour, a sea ftrpent, which was supposed to be
sear one hundred feet in length, as it {hewed itfelf
( out of water 40 feet; it was as big round as a bar
•rei,
FROM BIDDEFORD Aug. 30,
8 A (hip beloi ging to Mr. Cutts, arrived there
t from the.Weft-Indie*, on board of which was a
man sick of the yellow fever; his father went 00
' board to carry him to hi* house, on Sunday ; and
6 on the Friday following the father was taken with
• the fame disorder and died the next day'i liis son
r dieJ the night following. The pilot, who brought
11 in the (hip, wag taken ill on-Thurfday and died the
c next day.
1 Since the above wa* wrote, a number more we '
• hear arc sick, and some dead.
0 PROVIDENCE^R. I ) Sept. 5. i
a It }* not clearly afceitained whether there it a :
, choice of a federal representative in-the room of
, Mr. Malbone. The general opinion is, that there
y has been a small majority of vole* in favoi of Mr.
t Cbamplin. %
• Died, at Newport, on Tuelday last, in the 55th
1 year of his age, m'ach lamented, Henry Marchant,
e Efq- Diftridl Judge for the state of Rliode-Ifland
e and Providence Plantations. Previous to the revo
lt lutian he had been employed as agent for this then
. coiony at the court of Great-Britain; he was long
c a member of our legislature, and had reprefenled
n this (lata in the Congress of the United States.
• The duties of the various trusts reposed in.fcimj
- were discharged with honor to himfelf and his con
e ftituents. In the more private walks of life he was
n trot less refpeftable; universal benevolence, with
i every social virtue, marked his chaia&er; and in
tl him were united the gentleman, the inflexible pa
ri triot, the honefl man, and undillembling Chiillian.
e The death of such a citizen may jullly be conlider-
ed as a public loss; to his bereaved family it mud
• prove irreparable.
WORCESTER, Auguft3t. (
e The dyfenttry prevail* in several of the neigh
bouring town*; in this town, during "five weeks pall, 1
i 16 young children, ail under fix years of age, have
s died with tiiis and other disorders, and only three
i adults. Excepting in a few inftanccs, ( those of a 1
Immature age, who hive been attacked with the djf
-- . 1
- enttry, in (hit place, have hid it very mildly', » ;ias
i. been most fatal to children who were ttfething. Ma
e ny alarming reports, we are told, are circulating
abroad refpedting the sickness in this place ; but the
i, ftatament now given is accurate.
e ——
y BOSTON, September 3.
f A eorreQtondent fays, that the officers of Britilh
t frigates have been uniform in their declarations,
A that they wiflt not to interrupt or impede the com
. merce of the United States; but that it is their
it duty to fcarch for the property-os their enewies,
r wherever it can be found. They declare they have
r information that vast quantities of French «nd
r Dutch property areconstantly transferring in neu
e tral vessels, and as they cannot investigate faCts on
r the ocean, it is their righr, agreeable to the laws of
e nations, to fend vessels which they fufpeft have such
jr property on board, for examination into the near
e eft porta. That as t® the impressment of Teamen,
i they know they are authorised by the laws of their
r country, to impress all Britilh born fubj«£ts ; and
i that by tkefe laws no fubjedt can withdraw his alle
1 giance—nor can he screen Himfelf by any protedti
. ona whatever—and that whenever they through mis
take press an American, they are obliged, at the
peril of losing their commissions, to discharge him
the instant they discover him so to be.
t September J.
Arrived on Friday la ft, the schooner Lucy, cap
. tain. Beatley, 30 days from Guadaloupe.
Captain Bcatley's cargo, confiding chiefly of
. provisions, was purchased by the French coTttmiffa
f ries and punctually paid for, as was also all the car
-1 goes that arrived there within his knowledge. In
j short, the Americans were treated with the utmotl
. juftite and-frundfhip by Vidtor Hugucs and the
other officers in Guadaloupe.
Captain Beatley informs—that aa adtioa took
J place, off the bay of fiaffeterre, on the 24th of Ju.
- iy, between a French privateer and an English brig;
> the Fienchman mounting 6 four pd'tsnders and ear
i rying 18 men, tlie brig : 2 nines and fixes, and 25
. men. The action lifted about.3o minutes before
. the English called Tor quarters, the captain losing
f his life after he had (truck tlis colours.—The French
loft one mao—the British had several wounded in
boarding, though none killed except the captain.
He farther informs, that four days previous to
the above, a long and severe engagement hippenea
between an Englilh frigate, called the Beaulieu, of
44, but carrying 48 guns, and a French frigjte
carrying 40 guns. The adtion laftr.d 3 hours, or
thereabouts, but a 74 coming down relieved the
English, otherwise (he must have been carried into
Basseterre—the a£tion being fought hut two leagues
from that bay. The Republicans landed the fame
day—having about 50 wounded, and near the fame
number killed. Captain Beatley saw three men
the day after, who had deserted the JLnglifh man.
of-war | they told him the Bully had loft 100 men,
as sara» they could tmderfland. (Chron.)
CHAMBERSBURG, August 25.
At a public meeting of a very cenfiderable num.
ber of the inhabitants of the county of Hunting,
don, at the borough of Huntingdon, on the 18th
day of August inft. in pursuance of notice, forthe
purpose of taking iato consideration the property
Sf nominating » fuitabU character nr rcprefetU us
in the house of representatives of the United States
—to be announced as a candidate with the appro
bation of our fellow-citizens, and to be supported
as such, at the ensuing election, in the diftridt
composed of the counties of Franklin, Bedford,
Huntingdon and Somerset.
1 It was unanimouQy agreed to nomioate William
M. Brown, Esq. of Chamberlburg.
Resolved, unanimously, that we will exert our.
I selves to eledt him ; and at the fame time, We re
■ quelt the aid of our fellow-citizens throughout the
1 diftridt.
And further,
1 Refoivrd, that our proceedings be published in
the Franklin Repository without delay.
By order 0/ the meeting,
BENJAMIN ELLIOT, Chairman.
Attest.
John Cahwaliader, Sec'ry.
August 20, 1796.
COhTJhUjiTIOK OP
Foreign Intelligence,
By tfx late arrfoah at New Tori.
LONDON, July 12.
On Saturday Paris papers weie received in town
to the sth instant. By theft we learn, that the
French Gencfal Moieau, after the capture of Kehl,
as mentioned in our laif, had proceeded against Fri
bourg, in the Bvifg.iu, which after a desperate con
fiidt, he obtained pofilffion of, having defeated the
Auftrians vrith considerable loss.
An article in the Vmis papers reports the above
event, in the following tennis : " The army of the
RVine and Molelle lias gained another vidtory be
yond the Rhine : they have entered Ftibourg, in
the Biifgau, after a long and bloody battle, in
whiyh it is said that the Emperor's regiment of Cui
rafuers was almost entirely cut to pieces. Prodi
gies of valour took place on both lides
" In the above engagement an Austrian cavalier
was taken prisoner by' the French. He ifays that
Conde's artny made part of the Austrian army,
, and that it amounted to 16,000 men; but 'that i«
of no confluence (added the piifoner) you will
take them a!!, for they tremble like hares."
The Emprefsof Russia has published a notifica
tion to the Imprrial Diet, in eonfequence of " be
ing bound by new engagements, mofl intimately
with the head of the Empire in which (he sum
mons the different Princes to remain faithful to the
Emperor in the war—declares " that hut troops are
in fadt ready to march, but her Majesty thought
thatJhc fhauld render a more essential service ly I
tnuling a declaration." j
Ar. official account was published at Pcterfburgh
on the 15th ult. of the capturc of th<^important
fortrefs of Derhens, upotr the Caspian Sea, by the
Iluflian General Stibow, on the 10th of May, af
ter a bombardment of ten days. Upwards, of
ia,ooo privates were made prisoners, with the KnLn'!
is that commanded thsm, mid several other officers, of
i- diffin&ion. Immense otftjjpKines and a great qitan
g tity of artillery wire found in the place,
e A violent dorm of thunder and lightning feß on
the city of Petevlburgh, in the night of the 22 J
of May. Forfy-fu galfies and twenty four jjun
boats were burned to allies.— The apartments of
h the Emprelsat Larlkozelo received cdtifidaablt da
1, triage.
:• S.jme frigates are ordered h. m Porlfmouth for
r the iflar.d ot Jersey, for its further protection.
1, The Earl and Countess of Jetfey have fortuity
e resigned their lifflariong in the hmifli id of t.m
i Prince and Prmcefs of Wales—Lady (J wit : it
- appointed fueceiTor to her ladyfliij# as lady i«
n ing to her Royal m which iapaciiy lb :
f will appear this day at Carlton-houfe.
ti Lord Gwtder (late Sir peter Burrell) fuceeeds
- Earl Jersey a« niafter of. the liorfe to his Royal
, Highness, but this appaintmsiit has not been for
r mally announced.
d The principal Jew merchants of the city have
liberally fubfpribed 12,c001, to tftablifh an hoipi
- tal for the poor of all countries.
Mr. Whitebread has {old one half of his exten
e five brewery to his blewer, his ftorc-clerk, and ano- ,
n therperfoK; theother lulf he retains.
HULL, July 15.
The Ranger llaop oi war, the Seagull snd King
George cutteis, ate arrived in these roads, this day,
f to take under their-convoy the fiiip'- for the Baltic.
A letter from Mr. John Martinfon, matter of,
- of this port, dates, that the Mary it
n arrived at London, having on board thtec mailers
I and their fhips'-companies, # from Norway, who had
e been taken by a Fiench privateer. '1 he French
man would have taken them but for their guns,
c He dtank a glass of grog with Mr. Maitinfon and
. then departed.
; The North Britain, Edmund, from Davis's
. Streightt, fall (hip, with seven seals, is arrivcd hcre
j this tide. •
e _The Volunteer, ISedllngton, from Greenland,
r is arrived at W hitby. She Hates, that the Caro.
1 lie# of Hull had got 3 fi(h and MSOO seals, True,
a love 3 fifh, John 1 filh 500 seals, Robert of Pe
terhead i filh, Latona of Aberdeen 5 fifn, and
3 the Lively of Whitby was clean.
3 The folloviiiiig (hips and vessels are ready at
f Fluthing, waiting for a fair wind, and deftited for
e the North Seag :
r The Incorruptible, of 44 £t>n«, a tne Clip;
e frigate of 36 guns j the Republican, pierced lor
0 36 guns, mounts 32 ; two barques, with three
s ttrokeg of yellow in the top, no head, and very
e much resemble Swede}; mount 22 gun* each ;
e one of the fame with black sices, of 20 gun 6; a
n fnowr of the fame description, with 16 guns} a
- narrow Itemed snow, with a Dutch frigate and
> guard /hip, of JO guns.
The Queen of PLrtugal has ordered Janquiera,
joining to the city of Lisbon, to be erected a free
port, after the close of the pr«fent year.
One of the largest oxen at thi« time in England
• was bred by and is aow the property of H. Peirfe,
1 Esq. of Bedale. He is tiling fev«R years old J
e measures fix yards and a half i» lenytjj, fivejsriH
r round ttie chert, ati<i is near'feven feet high, and
• fuppoied to weigh upwards of 300 (lone.
s A few days ago, the Rev. Melrille Home, late
- chaplain at Sierra Leone, in Afriaa, and author of
the " Letters on Millions," was indufled jato the
vicarage of Olney, Bucks, on the prrfeuutiun of
» the Right Hon. the Earl of Dartmouth.
One thousand guineas have been fubferibed by
1 the Tufton family, towards defraying the cxpence
of Mr. Honeywood's conte'ft for the county of
• Kent.
Last Tuesday, Montgomery, the proprietor of
■ the Sheffield paper, was released from his impriion
ment-in the Caltle of York.
Yates, the <q!d comedian, died, it seems, in a
' pafSon, because eels had not been bought- for his
dinner. His house keeper, after being reproved
for her omtHion, went cut to get some ; on her re»
turn file found him leaning on a table with his head
on his hands, and spoke to him several times before
(he perceived he was dead. A female pupil difptites
with the heirs at law the old man's property, of
which flie has got entire pofleflion, The heirs as.
ferl 110 will was ever made by him, and the bufioefs
goes into Chancery.
. ——
just Arrived, from,Lifbon,
And for Sale by the Subf&riber*,
Lisbon Wine,
In pipes am! quar/.er-cais;
5000 Buftieik Lisbon Salt.
Jeffs & Robert Wain.
. Sept. io. fdt{
)JCZ_ FOR LONDON,
; The ca P"*' CERES,
fiil soon ! — p or freight or mffire
to DAVY, ROBERTS St Co. ur
"John Vaugban,
September 10. I'ront-ftreet.
FOR SALE,
'^' ie c ' iooner lark,
° De ilull<3r<:tl and t\venty tons burthen.
Vc^c ' found > we ' J huilf, Sl
~ , fails extremely fail. For terms appiy
txj the urEltcr on board, or to
jofepb Anthony & Co. '
If the above vessel is nut fulii iu a few days, fee wiU
take frc ght On very low terms for Boftoii.
Sept. 10.
RAYNER TAYLOR,
MUSIC P KQfESSOK,
No. -96, North Sixth Street.
I D ESPECTFULLY inionns his Scholars, that he
I re-commenced his attendance alter the fuinrntr va
i cation ; and, as ulual, tc-chcs Ladies Singing and th«
Piano Forte. * Sept. 3. »
A Handsome, well-broke
SADDLE HORSE,
For Sale tnqu.rc at thcCoiieftoeo Stlhlc's, t>.e owr;tr
nil him. -
fcifjwPhiladelphia,
Saturday evening, September ro, t l9 i.
"
The Courrier Francois of yefterda, morning fry,
that letters from I okago announce that the people
there are under apprehensions of a visit from the
iTench and and hive in confcquence laid an
embargo on the Americans.
w V' ritfr ;" th^ Pittft),jr S h fpeakinr ofthe
f e ?v'A 10 "' fay,> " Itis ™y °P«"on, that
if the « eftern country had never been infcfted with a
I'ladley or a Gallatin, it would lalely have escaped all
thole evils. t
As corresponding with the sentiments uniformly
we with pteafure republic,
.ro..t ihe Njw \\ orlo of thi3 morning," the follow
ing art.cle:
" Among the many circumilances which set the
American charaftcr in an honourable point of light
r.o one is calculated to lhed more l.ufire than the warm '
I'oiicitude for a general peace. While the uproar of
war rtlounds through turope, and spreads alarm and 1
deflation over a large portion of the earth, we remain
in tranquility, and rife on the general ruin. Our
produce is elevated to an unprecedented height, and ,
«" r enterpnae finds a lucrative field both at home and
abroad. \\ ere interest clone to determine our motives,
-we would encourage, rather than repress, the war ; C
\vc would pray for it* extenfioa and deprecate its ter- ?
xnination. I
" But let die truth be told. The American people i
fervently wilh the war over. Their humanity and f
Jove ol juitice triumph over pecuniary considerations. !
J here exifls not a doubt that nine out of ten of our
citizens, were the question submitted to them, would >
j)ut a period to the war. 1
" Contemplate the almost unvarying hostility of one b
nation to anothe in pall at well at piclent times, view r
the exultttio* which has marked the rife of one peo
pie on the ruin or miserable depression of another, and
lay, Americans, whether you do not feel a triumph of
virtue in your own breasts, on exercising as high a "
philanthropy as cenfifts with your own wel- 1
It is an ungentlemanly practice which it adopted by
some Editors ot ne*fpapers, of availing themselves t
with little or no apparent helitation, of whatever de- F
gree of credit may be supposed to attach itfelf to pro
duaions original in the papers of others. This mode
01 conducing is almost peculiar to the United States,
as no other community affords so many instances of it. f '
How fich persons can reconcile their condua to the lr
principles of candor and generolitv thev th'emfelvc-s
can best judge. It certainly is not indicative of gen us ui
and a nice sense of honor.; for where theft are unued, v '
no man will think it derogatory to his own chara&er
to acknowledge merit in a cottmporary. s!
'St
COUUUNICAtIOti.
Some eastern travellers have reported, that the Bri
tilh treaty is unpopular in the New-England states.
Jt is, however to be observed, that travellers too
Often detail their own fentimeuts far the opinions of °,
others. "I hat this is the fadl in the present instance,
appears from, a certiGcate lately puhlifhcd, in which a aj
candidate for the office of.reprefentative in Congress is iy
Held up a 9 a friend to the treaty, in order ta remove Jil
obje&ions from the minds of the clfdors arising from w
reports that he was opposed to it. Ttiejntrinfic merits
or ti--".,. the treaty «
on as tijur, that ltHSvedTo fijlly to develope the pUns
of the antifederal junto, as to become a rally.ng point 1 <
».o the friends of the peace, liberty and fafetv us t£e ji
United States, and as such has already been of infinite
"ervice to our country. •
' P
The following remarkj were mad* by a Committee
the Frencu National Legijlature, <wii» reported a
Law dgl injl Popular Societies, which received the
Jantiion of the Councils in Marco last s
" The rapid progress of the Pantheon, said the H
Chairman, ought to make, you auquainted with the *
caitet of tho£e focicties. People a eet at firft with '|f
the purest intentions', to support tile coiiiiitution, to L
revive patriotism, to lend afliftance to the govern
£.ent, to preach obedience to the law. liut this du
cool ai.d collettcd career does not accord with the ip
ambiliout pretenfio:,j of leaders ; places and wealth
are lought ; men become furious at not having been
elected into government j government is railed l !'
sgaiuft; they are accused of Chouanrterit, and of
ytrfeeuttng the real patiiots ; it is neceflary to de- w ,
itroy the government, I'he lightening is not quick its
er than ths luccefs of a (editiousorsior, who, ikill- of
ed in stirring the paflions of the multiiude, can at
will cvpuvsie ThrirTJeiievolcnce, tliem
by a picture of the ills which he has endured, and
iiimuls e tliem againfl those persons whom he accu L },
ies as the authors. The Athenians had leceiv- Cj
td fiom Solon a republican conititution. Puis-
TRATUS pteachcd up the divilion of lands ;he gave Ba
them letters, aud that light, though courageous J u
who had braved all Alia, weic fujedted to
to the yoke of thirty tyrants.
" Alter the death of Charles I, England was
<2ifpofed to receive a Republican Government, but C' !
faitioi* arose and disputed the empire. The tein ' av
: pks and churshes, transformed into clubs, became a i
: so many tribunes, where vehement orators dtliver- J*'
« ed, some, sentiments of royalty, other* of anarchy, a >
S . few preached the pi iuciples of liberty. |
" iu the midlt of these different parties, Crom
t *ell let fall hts siafk j and under the title, of Pro '
t edor took the place of that tyrant whom he had [ ' le
j iii puniflied.
"At his dea'h, the members of the long Parlia- l )Ut
■ lent, who had bee;i the iuftrumcnts of Cromw'sll's '
5 Itvalion, were called the only patriots, thr only men we
u orthy of foiming the national lepiefentation ( and vver
ll lose wen who feeme'd to be attached to the repub- °' '
i j only the bctirr to conceal their real attach- 10UI
s ctrr to royal tyranny, the throne onc
n d the people fuffcied thcrofelves to be placed *-
ij ;ain under the yoke of monarchy. wc "
" Thus, the British cabinet finds in the history of
is. Tountry, tifeful lesions to liuit us f and it would ton
serving the Engiifh government in a wondeiful LA
tier, if we fuffered popular fuciciies to fubfill.
You cannot limit the liberty of the press with
giving to the government a ceitfurial authority, 7
.ch would be aJveife to all principles. But if who
psirnit the liberty of the olubs, youwilldtftroy Gen
*tiler that is eflabhfhtd. men
'■ The elements of clubs aremtheii nature de- liber
ttftire. If ti/r g«<vcr::ncot j>rtfe:v«B Jibetty, the j>«v«
.l- -*.i • '•
—- clubs destroy it. If the froverßmsnt tends to flav.
ery, i: will make uie of the clubs as an instrument.
1 hus the txiftencc of dubs is the only hope of the
royalists. „ r
" K- f P r cfentatives, either annihilate the clubs, or
the clubs will annihilate the republic,
.ys, " Citizens, let our hearts burn wilh hatred
iple against royalty, and agaiaft jocobioifm: let us in
t e funure, like the Direftery, recogßize only two
1,1 claffc « of nien—thofe <who are for the Conjitutim,
and those who are againjl it''
the — I,
hat
»; BY THIS DAY's MAIL.
NEW-YORK, September 9.
n'y 4 evening died, Peter T. Cuneniai, Esq.
ifh, Auditor-General of this Hate.
, w - ""A Wit's a Feather, and a Chiefs a Rod—
" An hontjl Man s the noblest work of God."
the T , , , ,
ht» r n a under the command of Adm. Murray
rm ~ „ c Resolution of 74 guns, Afiiftancc and
of lru.ty of jo guns,—Thetis, Topaze, Thiftp, Pre
nd y°y lDte ' Huffiir, Rah'on, and Cleopatra frigates— j
linn^ nx ' P trance ' Spencer, Bonetta, and Bermuda
lur floo P 6 '
nd r a P'" Chipman, »f the fliip Polly, from Glasgow,
nd [P ' n ,tle !it itode of 41, 46, long. 35, 38, four
e», t,rench r 'B at « on a ""if' for the Jamaica lieet. The
r commodore took Capt. C. on board, examined his pa
:r - Pf r *'.. and ,old hlm hc was bound for the banks of
Newfoundland, to take the Newfoundland, fleet, but
lie ! ie w» afraid the conv.y, of the Jamaica fleet was too
nd h" v y forhim: after his cruise was out, he ('aid he
is. ! Rt f d 1 hiladelphia, is one of his (hips was very
ur leaky. Ihe commodore's flup-was called Andromaelie.
ild a . ' 2 ?' ' on 8- 4°. n, spoke a brig called the
Amer.can Hero, Capt. M-Dougal, from New-York, 1
bound to Madeira.
w n , 39 ' f' 11, spoke a brig from the
Iliazils bound to Liioon.
ad Lit 'i 8 ' 29 ' ' ong ' • J, ». 2 ' f P° ke 'he (hip Minerva,
Capt CrpwmnlhieW, ot Salem, from Bengal, out 4 1
months, bound for Hamburg. 1
The following yeffcls touched at the island of Afcenfiou. '
iihip Joiwi, Ward, bound to Salem. '
Minerva, Crowninihieid, do. '
, Lemon, Rich, of Bo.lon. • 1
ci Ketch John, Derby, of Salem, bound to the Isle of l
c . France, leit Alieniion, June 8.
0 . Brig Kofe, Meany, Philadelphia, aad 1
Je Schooner VVoodbridge, Piiickiiam, Boston.
Ity Capt. Ryan, who arrived yeltcrday. in 45 days
it. '-sdiz, we learn that the Fienqli ileet under Ad- 1
ie Uiehery lay there when he failed, and that the v
Englifll fleet under Admiral Mann was (till tTuifihjc '
u uJI the harbour, except one (hip tint-was sent to coil- t
j voy the merchantmen from Cadiz to Gibralt r.
,' r ihe (hip Veniiia, Adamiou, is arrived atßriftol in
a 8 days from this part.
The (hip Barring'on, Stewart, arrived at Leith the *
middle ot June, froKi this port. '
'* CHARLESTON, August z;. 1
Dietl 0.1 the evening of the 43d inft. at 1
of Mr. Richard M'Millan, King 6treet, Benjamin 1
: , Clarke, M.D. Hon ofthe Rev. Dr. Thomas Clarke) a
a aged 32 years, lately from Abbeville Cou.ity, Nine
is ty Six Diitria. in all the different fituaiioAs ofs
c lifci hc uiiifjimly fupporscd the chauttci of a Go«d 1
" Man. t
u • -p.- , rL- Augvift 36. •
, iJied on Friday hcmnj 1 tie 19th iTl¥. in 'her
lt 19U1 year, Mrs. Elizabeth Eggleltou ; wife of Mr. t
e John Egglcltoc. '
e On Wednesday morning the x 2 4 th inft. miss Mary
VVrtghten, daughter of the late Mrs. Mary Anii e
Pownall, formerly ot the Church Itreef Theatre. v
f On tbc fame evening, Mr. John Egglelton. 1
' £ ALEXANDRIA, September 6.
, A rr ' ve( l on Saturday the (hip Pomona, Captain |j
e Haywood, from Cadiz, which he left the lalt of July.
c Ihe \erbai accounts by the Pomona correspond witl - °
i the..liuelligeiice in our last from Cadiz, by the way oi /
New-io.k. V. ar with England was the general t>a- ''
pic ol convention, which every day seemed to ren
der more probable. Admiral Richery was still in Ca- '
s diz, but it *ras rumoured that the Frq;ith looked f.r «
e lpeedy relid tiom a Dutch fleet of fupcrior force to the
1 %-W'lron under Admiral Mann, who has so long pafl "
|t kept them blockaded.—The time for the payment of V
d the sura ltijpulated by treaty between this country and "
the Dey ot Algiers expired fix days before Captain C
Haywood failed rrora Cadiz, and the vefl'el dispatched tl
• with it had not then arrived. It is feared this cirgum- ii
stance may endanger the liberty and property of some
[. ol our citizens.
i Captain Haywood fell in with a squadron off the
j, Capet, under lire command of Admiral Murray. He
, was boarde by the firU I.eutenant of the Admiral's bl
(hip, who tnf 1 med him they had been two days in P :
chafe qf three French frigates, under the command of h.
• Captain Barney, oie of which they captured. a l
'i h« Ihip Friends Adventure, Captain Caldwell, of
- Baltimore, arrived at Cadiz from Lilbon, the -jth of
; July - e
BALTIMORE, September 8.
, Yesterday arrived the (liip Charleston, Captain
Clarke, in 54 days from Loudon. We have been
favoured, through feveial channels, (partfcularly
Captain Claikej with London papers to the 14th
July, from which a few extrafls are made for this
day's Jousnal. t0
Captain Clarke parted company with the snow °[
Eliza, Captain Benfon, on Wednesday last.
Captain Clatke has a full cargo of dry goods for .
the merchants of Baltimore. * la
We hear tllit the (hip Jane, Rogets, of this port, " P
put back to Liverpool in diftr-fs.
By a gentleman who arrived ycfterday evening,
we are informed, that ob Friday last, three frigates
were off Cape Henry ; one was llationed in the Ist.
of the Cape—one to the north—the other to the 'r*
south—laying to. Our informant was spoke by ,
one of the fngates, whidi he took to be the Thetis. U °'
On Saturday last, the (hip Thomas of Portland, ,
went out of the Capes from hence, fur Portland,
and was ehafed by an English frigate fiom Hamp
ton Roads.
iud
LATEST EUROPEAN INTELLIGENCE, (pit
Received by Captain CijMzt. ctfl
STOCKHOLM, June 24.
The famous Countess Cliarlotte Rudenfitield, the
who was an accomplice on the late conspiracy of aga
General Armfeldt, and was condemned to imprison yov
meiit for life, was, 'he day before yesterday, set ai fo m
liberty, ,a»d fetsout this day for Gothland, where
goveioracrit ha; bought foMier an e'iate, on iibich »
■ i
\
\
la*, (he it to refiJe. This sudden change in the fate of
cat. the Countcfs, was very unexpeAed, and hat caused
the may unpleafafit things to be faidjicrc.
or ITALY", June ij»
,or The French General Cei voui has blocked Man*
red tua > f° r a circuit of 18 leagues. The city has in
. vain been summoned to surrender Jit has a garri
'on of Bcoo men and 4000 artillery men.
.Tranquility is now reflored in Corsica, the Eti-
K''" l viceroy, Sir Gilbert Elliot kaviftg difmifled
the present ministry, and called a new parliament, j
which will appoint a Rew Couiicil of State.
VIENNA, June ?2 .
The Court Gazette of tnis day, contains the ;
folluwing intelligence i
" According to the report of the commander in
ifq. chief, Barou BeauiieU, datod Cngliano, the 1 Jth 1
iuftant, nothing of importance has occurred ill the 1 1
army of Italy. Our patroles advance as fa; as Vi- ! '
cenia ; the castle qf Milan is not yet formally be-1
sieged by the etkmy, but only reconnoitred by about
and or S° oo men > Mantua is preparing to defend it- '
?re- to '' ,e 'art extremity, but is at present only !
I—| blockaded. Checked by the brave refinance of our '
uda troops, in every engagement, to the superiority of '
numbers of the enemy, and Tcept back by the meaf
3W» ures for defence which have been taken every where, 1
I'hc t '* e enem )' as not thought it advifabie to Attempt
pa- further. Our army is ouly waiting for t
of the reinforcement*, which are haileuitig from all
but P_ ar,s t0 " s affiilance, to recommeuce adiive opera- j
too tions on their part." ;
WES EL. June 26. 4 . J
he. The head quarters-os the Duke of Brunfwkk,
the commands the troops appointed to defend the 1
rk, hue oi demarcation, will be fixed at Miuden, on the *
lit of July. *
the ' MANHEIM, June 24..
■a The Irencll.ttill continue in pofieffipn of Rlieirv. i
t genheim, Mandach and the batteries they took be*
(ore our fortrcls. As ii seems evident that they
oil laeia continue without interruption the attacks £
on the lines, which will paly occalion an unnccefTiry '
(aerifies ui men, the Imperialilts, for the present, a
mean only to act on the defenlive, and to retire in*
of to the tort of the Rhine, which has been partly rc- f
paired. fa
MiDDLEBURG, June j a
j.,, 1 French trigate La Rcpubiieaiuc, has lately c
.<i- a kcii ihe packet boat bound to Hamburgh,
jj c cahed the Piiiice of Orange. Captain J. Dean.*— '
Aher taking qui all the anJ prifuuers,
iii- the yeffei was funk.
ELBERFELDT, June 22.
I ' ,e wing ot the Iren.h arnjy of Sarabre
Meute, has taken up su advantageous polition
between Lenrach. and Oplflden, for the purpose ps
covering DjffUdorif. in which place difpofitiom
are making to (ruinate any attack. The inhabi- S
if t tants are übliged to provide thcmfelves with lix
nn months provitioiis. Both the battel ies of the place, £
cj arid t!ie adrtjiued woiks, are pi*o»ided with guns. .
ie. NEUWIED, June 23.
ot We are atlu.ed to*day, that the French have j.
lent over to this tide a trumpet, with theaffuranct, 1
that they will no longer lite into the city.
Our hdyiteS fioia Linle Hate, that the advanced
c, guaid of the imperial. trooprtrolled tue Sieg yes- v
[ (/ t*rday usurping. The advanced poits have already t |
pulhed on to Wuhlheim, £
ry Yelicrday a great number of French troops pass l s
nn ed along the high toad Lading to Andemaeh. li
would appear that thoy are about to join the arui;
in the eitvironj of DuffcldorfF. ' l
EHRENBREITSTEN, June 24.
Ihe gieat encampment of the impettal army is u
• m in the environs ot Neuwied ; 011 the other bank t |
of thj: Rhine tiie French have their encampment "J
oi A pari oi the latter, it i» laid, will match this even
'"«• d
BANKS OF THE MAYN, June 25. fa
a- ' A Courier from the Upp r Rhine has brought
■• r advices that tie French ytllerday eroded that tiver
near Kehl, anj took polTtflloii of a batlery, from
' ot - which, iiowevtr, theyjiave ft nee been driven with l
loss, by a dettehmeiiT of troops belonging-to the w
in Circle of Suatlia. Reinforcements were sent from t j,
;d this quarter immediately on the an ival of the above ct
n- intelligence.
te \v e are just, nformed, that the Dey of Tripoli p,
has declared War against Dennwik. jj
le " l h , e Glafgcw Flurift Society has given to Ro- j„.
Bert Smith, for producing the bed Ancmoivies, a t [,'
; n pair of Horns mounted with Silver. The Stadt- w j
jf holder fays, that for Orange Plants he is entitled to thi
all the horns about Hampton Cturt.
,f _•_ wi
' { , 4R MY of the COAST of the OCEAN.
Extraß of a letter from the Commifjia-ier ps the Execu- a j
live DireSory with the central ajminijlraiton of the
department of Morhihan„t» the Minified of the
general police »f the republic.
" Pannh, 3d Meffidor, 4th year. a '"
" Citizen Miniiter,
" I have no longer to announce hopes, but fafls
to you. 1 have Jeen with my own eyes, three bands <
of Chouans, confi(U«j*of 30 men each, all j
marines, arlive heie fuftefitvely this aftcrnooß, with
their muflcets leverfed, and their Cartridges in tlieir
hands. 1 have seen them lay down their arms, set
up the thrcv-coloured cockade, and kiss it with
' transport. I have heard them call out with joy, A
" Long livenhe republic I" Thefeare the foreruu *1
; nersof theif companions throughout the whole can
ton of Vannes, who arc following theif example :
they are the imitators of the Chouans of the canton
■Of Auray, who, yesterday and the day before, laid V
down their ijgpii, to the number of 600, in that S '
ne?ghbourhaod.
" Bcfoie the end of the Decade we (hall not r t
have, I hop?, :* the department, an armed enemy ; «
and you will learn, with inuch'fatisfaaion, that this
sudden change is owing rather to the confidence in-* with
ipircd by government, than to the aftonifhiug fuc- ent 1
cttfes of our arms in the north and south. frair
- " The deluded men do not difTemble that it was "rf
the atrocities of government which armed them yard
agamit the Republic, and that a wife and paternal tjtxal
government has induced them to return to it» bo- tlui '
iom. ifrin
Health and Fraternity, or li
(Signtd) " R&vrnAT." t p :
»>
/ '
5 of FRANFORT, Jnne 25.
ifed The Austrian main army under the ajcl-t?u3ce
Charlrs is retiring from the Weftt'rwald, and the vi
cinity of the Sie<j. Thirty thotlfatid men Under th£
; an . command of Gen. Wartenflebcii, will remain in
; n the pljin of Mu!!ieim, oppofitc DufleMoVfF, and
rri- defenfivcly. The Saxon troops, thole of Ge
neral Hotze, (everal Hungarian regiments of infant*
En- r .V> an<l brigade of the Prince "of Orange, have
[Ted arrl " at Wiftaden, on their march to the Opprf
:nt, i 'he vicinity of Ma: heim. Gen. Wurm
fei has ftt out for laly, and General Latotir lias
taken the comman of the army aJinterim, till the
the ? rriral of ,he Prince of H-henlohe Kihchbeig, who
is to have the command under he*archdulteph .ilcs*
in ls not determined where the head quarremof
jth ,h . c dt'ke Charles, as general in thief of the ar
the! rn ' cs t ' le Upper and Lower Rhine, ft*!) be ella
. blilhed ; but it is expected, either at Heidelberg or
be-1 Grofgerau.
:>ut Eight regiments of Aliftrian infantiy, eight of
it- dragoons, and one of light liufT-its, are io it,-:"ch
nly 'trough the circles of Bavaria, Franco- :a, aiu' fcivra
3Ur ' to rcln foiee the army on the Rhine; they will
0 f be ready by the end of J. 'ly. .
■as- The Aultriaas have entered Elherfeld.
•re, j LONDON, July 11.
ipt Yefterday\ve received the Paris Journals up to
for the sth instant inclusive.
all It is a little rem >ikable that in a series of so many
ra- papers as have been reieived flnce the arrival of the'
last Paris Journals, not a word is said of the opera*-
tiims ef the Army of the Sambre and Meufe.
Tiiis is a Clence which promises speedily much inte
reding intelligence, which Fiona the change made io
jj C the difpofitton of the Austrian troops, by th« «fti
vity of Moreati on the Upper Riling, and in the
force of the French from the co-opera; ion of the
in* Army of the North, will not piobably be favoura--
)c . ble to the Auftiian cause.
ey _ A letter of General Moreau to the Direftofy
ks £' ve ' official account of the paflage or the
ry Rhine near Strafburg. It appeais that this hrilli-
H, action had been atchieved by that fortunate com.
n _ bination of military tatties and unequalled ei.:er«
rc- P r '* e » by which the operations of the French have
been distinguished. By having thrown a budge
across the Rhine at that quarter,. General Moreen
ly considers his pofuion as perfectly fafc, though till
h, wa ' e ss it fecms coiilelTed to have been cx«
_ trctßcly perilous.
>1
QAt&TTS OF THE UNITES STdTit MARINE J.IST.
jn PHILADiL? HI A, StfUmlcr «.
P* AKRiViB.
"" Day*
>>: ShipAmitjr, Hetidcrfon* Bordeaux
JX Warren, Landers, Liverpool 36
e, Barque Bon Adventure, Stubbl, Liiboii o2
♦tsiig Abigail, Pinkham, St. Domin&o 20
The Montezuma is arrived at Baltimore, '1 lie
Vc Rcbecia, Hughes, was to fail from London July
«» 15, and thf Eagle about the 27ih-.-both for Phi
ladelphia.
Capt. Landers, of the ftiip Warren, from Li
:l verpool, iniorms, that on the 2d iutlant he spoke
- 1 } the snow Adolphe, Capt . Wilder, with 500 pas
sengers from Londonderry for Ntw-Yoik or Piii
ladelphia, out 65 days, 1at.40, 12, long. 68, ea»
1' all well.
The nest day, in lat. 59, 39, long, ft, 35, wa »
boaided by the Shark Britiih (loop ot war, 01 20
guns j informed that they had been in foundings
18 .off the Chesapeake the Monday preceding, aiid
thai a French frigate of 32 gu .s had been taken.
— The Shark was bound to Haliiax
-11 The brig Eliza, with pafluigers from London
derry, is arrited at Newcastle, alter a ftiort pafc.
fagc.
11 Prom the New-Yokk Ga^rttr.
er FOR THE GOOD OF NAVIGATION.
m The fubferiber having been obliged to put into
h Little Egg-Harbor twice, while he Was trying to
IC weigh the sloop Hannah ; aad thinks it but right
n that ftrangeis, going along ftiorsu and taken with
c contrary winds, or the wind upon (hore, (hould
be made acquainted with the marks set up l<y Capt.
Patrick Dennis, of the revenue cuitei Vigilant*
Upon the north beach, in coming from sea, 01 go
" ing along (hore, they mull not attempt to go over
a the bar until they bring both beacons in one ; they
* will then bear about N. W. then run in
9 them so, until they arc within the bar, which they
will cauly fee, by the breaking of the sea upon it j
then keep the south brack aboaid until they get to
the point of Tucket's, or South Beach, giving it
a final! birth, and tun in to anchor a of
r Tucket's house, and anchor there, in about 14 or
16 feet water. Thep will find upon the bar two
and an half fathoms, at low water.
JAMES DEAS.
September 8, 1796 c
Arrivals at Ncw-Tcrk—September 9.
| Ship. Charlotte, Neal, * Hamburg
1 Brig Poll Gary, Ryan. Cadiz .
Valuable Manufactory
FOR SALE.
A SO AP and CANDLE Manuta&ory, I landing in a c»n*
venieut part ot ibe City : the work» arc aiuiuft new j
o« an entire new conftruthon, built of the belt tuatuiaia,
aud ready te fct to work immediately. Apply 10,
FRaUNCES and VrtN REED,
Broken, No. 63, Sosih I him direct.
Who discount approved Netcj ot hand at a thort nouee.
September 6th, 1 jgS. m . w. U». tt.
TO B£ SOLD,
That Neat and Convenient House,
WHEREIN the fabferiber now lives. There areiour
rooms on a floor : the house is two itories high
with a good garret above : under the whole is an excell
ent cellar, with a dry well, in which is a convenient
framed chamber sot preserving meat, butter, &c. in warm
weather. Attached to the house is a Stable for thiee
horfss, hay-los , granary, and carriage-house, a woni
yard paved With Hone, and a gardefi with foil of a I i;e
quality. An indisputable title will lie made to the pur
t haier. For farther particulars apply to the fuhfcriler in
Princeton, or. in her absence to Thomas D. Johnson Ei«.
or the rev. Samuel S. Smith. '
ANN WITHIRSPOON.
PnncetOß, Aug 34- jawtU■" r ,
Que Hundred Dollars Reward. tod h..
STOLE N, thcu l ,
Fran the Compttng-Hovfe of RALPH MATHER,
i i. 12, Quarry-Jlreet, en Saturday Si-Sunday n'rjht ■ c
hji, the fcllo'wing Not is, e7c/
DOLLARS. urch .
John Nicholfon, to Moorhoufe, <&lie Nov. m
. I. 1797, bearing interest, . - - jooo , !edu . a
David Allifon to James Cramond, due in j;, • ,
March last, .... 4075 ™
J. W. & W. Gibbs to Ralph Msthcr, it 70 (
days, Außuftsoth, - . . 1681 98
Ferdinand Gourdon to Ralph Mather, at four
months, August 17th, ... 364
Benjamin Chamherlsin, at 60 days, Augull 6, 513 53
Affleck to Jos. Bufwell, at 6 months, dated „ . .
May . ... . ISO 64 > checl
Parker and Greaves to Ralph Mather, on de- of
mand* ..... 100 of
A bill by Harford to Harford, not accepted, till, ftir
bog. _
LJkewife, the Titles of some ElUtes, Mortgages, &e.
Whosoever brings the thief or thieves to justice, fliall 1
have the above reward. t '
As the papers in question can be of no use to any other
person, the bills having, been flopped payment, requelt ]
the perpetrators may be searched after with all miagina- ■
ble care
September 6. tw&f6t 1
DifTolution of Partnership. 1
THE Partnerlhip between ROBERT ANDREWS and :
DAVID MF.REDfTH, under the firm of ANDREWS ;
and MPREDITH. being didolved Ail persons who arc ( 35
indebted to, or who have claims against the laid house, are 2
, requcfted to apply for fettleinent to the fuhferiber. 3
1 ' ' ROBERT ANDREWS, 5
No. 86, So. Wharves. :
Sept. 6, 1796. d tf
Treasury of the United States. *6
NOTICE is hereby given to all persons whd *are or
may be Creditors of the United States, for any.fnms ' '
of the Funded Debt, or Stock, bearing a prefenl interef of fx
per centum, per annum. 3 1
i ft. That pursuant to an Act of Congress passed on the '4 1
iSih day of April, 1796, intitled an ait in addition to an
»&, intituled ■' An a,<st making further provision for the '
support of public ersdit, and for the redemption of the ;
public debt," the farddebt or stock will be reimburfedand
paid in manner following, to wit. First, by dividends 31
" to be mide on the laltdays of March, June and Septem«
" ber for the p*efent year, and from the year one thousand
" feveir hundred and ninety-seven, to the year one thou
" sand eight hundred & eighteen ihclufive, at the rate of
'' one and one half per centum upon the original capital.
" Secondly, by dividends to be made on- the last day of
" December for the present year, and from the year one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year
" one thousand eight hundred and seventeen inclusive, at
" the rate of three ihd one half per centum ujSon the ori
" ginal capital; and by a dividend to be ma e. on the last
" day of December, in the year one thousand eight hun
" dred and eighteen, of such sum, as will be then' ade
" quate, according to the contract, for the final redemp
" tion of thefaid stock."
id. All diltindtion between payments on account of
Inttreß asd Principal being thus abolilhed by the eftablifh
mcnt of the percrianent rule of reimburftment abovs de- 3
fcrlbed, it has become nficelfury to vary accardingly the
powers of attorney for receiving dividends; the public
creditors will "therefore observe that the following form
, is ettablilhed for ail powers of attorney which may" be
granted after the due promulgation ot this notice, viz.
K IV ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that
/ ./ U
do make, confitute and appoint 3
rf my true and lawful At
torney, forme, andin my name, to receiite the dividends nh ch ere,
or Jc.ill be payable according to laia, on the (here describing the
itock) my name in tbe books of (here describing the
books of the Treasury or the Commiflioner of Loans,
where the stock is credited) from (here insert the com
mencement and expiration of time for which the power of
attorney is to continue) -with pt-uier also an attorney or attor
nies under him, for that purpofeto matt andfubjlitute, and It do all
la-w/ul alii rejuijitefor effecting tbepremifes, hereby ratifying and
canfrmittg all that t^yfaid Attorney tr hitfubfitute,Jball lawful
ly do, by virtue hereof. I
In IVitneJs hereof, I leve hereunto fct my Hini eni Seal tie
day of «'* thcynr
Sesled and Delivered
in a
BE IT KN'O IVN, that on tic day of 2
efcre me personally came -
within named and acknowledged tbe above letter of attorney to be
bis afi and d.cd. ~
In tefimofly whereof I have hereunto Jet my Hand and affix
ed Seal tbe day and year lafl aforefaid.
Given under my Hand at Philadelphia, this twen
tieth day of July 1796, pursuant to directions
from the Secretary of the Treasury. '
SAMUEL MEREDITH, . ]
Ireofurcr of the United States. 3
'julj 23. w Us i t % J.
WANTED,
dn APPRENTICE to the Printing Buftntfs.
Enouire at this Office. " Aug. 19
Lands of theUNiT££> States
Treasury Department, August 3, 1796.
Public Notice is hereby Given,
purfuahce of an ait of Congress, parted on the 18th
JL of May, 1796, entitled "As ail providing" for
thefale of th; lands of .the United States, in the Territo
ry north weft of the river Ohiid, and above the mouth of
Kentucky river," that the fcitions or lots of land defcri- .
bed in the anneiedi'thedule, lying in the seven ranges of
townlhips, which were Purveyed in pursuance of an ordi
nance- of Congrefs,paOTed on the twentieth day of May,
in the year one thousand seven hundred and eighty-five,
will be exposed for file at Public vendue, in the town ot
rittfburgh in Pennsylvania, 011 the twenty-fourth day of
O&oberse-tt, and thenceforward, from day'to day until
the firft day of Decembej enl'uiiig, anlefs the fajd lots shall
be looner fold, in the manner, and on the terms and con
ditionsherein ufter menlicned, to wit:
' -ft. 1 he said fevTi'ons or fct- (hall be fold undar the di
re&ion ef the Governor or Secretary of the Western Ter
ritory, and such person ?.i the Prclident of the United
States n'.ay specially ;ippoint for that purpofa.
» id. The faitiieoiious or lots (hall be fold to the highest
biac'er,but no lale can be made for less than two dollars
(ier aire of the quantity of land contained in such lot or
legion.
3. The highest bidder as before mentioned, must depo
sit iit the time o'f (ale, one twentieth part of tfcefxirchafe
r 'Tiey. in the lir nds ofVuch psrfon as the President of the
I'-nited States (hall appoint to attend the sales for that pur
pole, which will be forfeited, if a moiety of the sum bid,
including the said twentieth part, (hall not be paid wimin
tlii.-tyd.iys from the time of sale.
4th. Upon payment of a moiety of the purchase money
in the manner before mentioned, the purchaser wi 1 be
entitled to one yelr s credit for the remaining moiety ;
aa* (hall reieive from the' Governor .r Secretary of the
V.'< stern Territory, imo the person' who shall be appointed fc
!-v-he Prefider.t of the United States, to direct the fales,a (J
rtificate describing tha lot orf-dtion purchased, and de
elanng theium paidor. account, the balancereraaining due, p
the time when such Valance becomes payable, and that v
th>t hole laifd therein mentk-ned ,will be forfeited, if the b
f,M baUrer not then paid ; but if the faid}ifel«Bce (hall ]
he duly paying fame to the 1 reafurer of
the United States, the purchaser or his aflignce'or other
i legal representative, thill he entitled to a patent for- the
' faTd lands, on his prod»cing to the Secretary of State a re
' ceipt for such balance endorsed upon the certificate. But J
if any purchaser (hall make payment of the whole of the
purchase money, at the time when the payment of the ! P
firft moiety is directed to be made, he will be entitled to a
deduition of ten per centum on the part for which a ere- '
dit is authorized to be given; and his patent (hall be im- "P
mediately issued. defcri
Given under my hand at Philadelphfa, the day and
, year above mentioned. C 6
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
3 Secretary ef the Treasury
, he:v
4 Schedule of feSions of or fraP.ianal parts day c
of town/hips, to be fold at Piltfburgh, in pursuance until
of the 6th fetltnn of an ail of Congress, pajfed on quart
the 18th day of May, i 1796.
: . —r": high<
IT $ » i' 5 i | i£ i S"r
r ' o I t '"I 8 • I I
Jo 2 ° " 3 " po/it
. . . c[iaf<
ift Range. 6thTowisfhip. 6th Range. State
ift Townlhip. f?ai2 64oeacli iftTownthip. '"f' u
28 5 65 14 640 17 3 io
49 156 95 17310 640 each 18 2jo
, 30 250 75 25336 640'eaeh 21 850.
s 34 240 90 BthTown(hip. 25 166 40
■ e 35 a 64ofeach 3314 64aeach 43 427
re ' 2d Townlhip 17a20 640«ach 24 640 t j le 1
19 140 23 640 17 151 80 beco
20 170 70 25830 640 each 28a3o64oeach t-i on .
21 185 33236 640 each 58 'paid
2 30 iothTownfhip 344361640 each payi
25 488 80 ia2 640 each ad Townlhip. thej
56a27 640 each sai464oeach 1 126 (hall
)r izß 560 I7a2o64oeach 2 440 duci
, 5 < 29 55 1 6° 23a36j64pleach 3 448 endc
ix- 3° i2thiTown(hip. 4 456 malt
31.136 640 each iai4 64c|each 5 464 time
ie .4thTown(hip. 17320 640eaeh 6 472 be a
n 19 64 23336(640 each 7 340 centl
IS , 6 *° , 8ai 4 640 each give,
ie 26 387 60 lftTownflli I 7 a2o6 4o each
id 27 30 , , v 23336 640 each
Is jra32 d4otich * 6-6 to 3dToWhip.
?a 33 616 30 640 1
id 34 44J 20 3 4 4 4 , g
35 50 3 ; If ea , 3 486
° f 36 16 JO 4 494 Of(
i sthTov.n(hlp. + W
of 6 i 39 \] 6 i 6d , 6 JIO the)
ie .. 336 640 each * ,
12 479 30 - I 7314 640 each
17 304 15 L , ; »7a2o64o;each
5 I! JS IT 9^ 12 each 43 640'eaeh
lft 23 450 75 j s sthTownlhip. 0
h. «4 640 , J5 1 518 - M
,s, *4 40 . a
e * ,! < A t X7a2o 5 4 0 each 2 5
P" 3 o Q 23336 640 each 3 534
, 3dTownlhip. 4 54 ° 0
3 — iai4 640 each j, Q *
ad RANGE. t7a2o64ceach -f ,
iftTownfhip. 13*36 640 each 7>i4 64o?ac
28 1 7120 ' s thTown(hip. each
34 I 6| 50 ia,4|64o|each * 3 *j6 —
j }c 3d Townfiiip. 17320(640'each ? wn(h P*
243,26 640 -ach 23*361640 each 1 ,6
L. f 28 499 16 7thTownfhip. % 57' 4°
*? n 29 64c laz 6 4 ofeach 35 ?6
31833640 each 537 640 each 4 SXJ5 X J 60
4thTown(hip. 640 each 593 ,
11 26 40 ißai9 A 4 o'each ' .
he 13 397 50 25 640 7«14 «40«ch
the 13 5i 50 30336 640 each '^*°«4oeach
ns, 15 2 7 50 9thTown(hip. 3 .. 3 rr. 4
m- 16 259 20 rai4l6 4 ole3ch
■of 17 SZ 173201640 each »l 4 6 4^each
- 18 64c 23a 3 6'64oeach r 7"o6 4 o|each ,
all 19 635 nthTownlhip. 1 3 a 36 64oeach
and ao 584 80 iai 4 6 4 o : each "thTown^.p
ft*l- al 636 21 I7a2o64oeach lal4 5 40 | eac °
22336 64c eaeh 23336 64o'each 17220 640 each
sthT«wnftiip, *°f a . C 1
5 636 1314640 each i3thTown(h,p.
6a7 each i7aao64oeach iai4 eac
53325640 each 23 336 640 each 17 s 2c64oeac
'Xt
jthTownihip. ■ I ; T -' W "»"P'
, 16401 ,8 174 40 I 7 a 2 < eac h
JthTownfhip 8 ' »323^640,each
135 3 * 2/ s ° 7th!IANGE.
£ <?°, "6: .« t—«p
---7a 14 640 cach ' 301 4 20 4
1 7 a20 640 each jg 3 ' 36 11321 50
- ' i3 f^ 64 ° 29330640 each 2dT,wnihi P .
9 thtownfh, P . / 4 ? .
6 °40 0 o „ 4 615
8 5" 3 ° 640 each J* 6 64 ° each
11 f 4 ,2d Township. 9 J96
X3ai4 64c sach ioai2 each
—- 19220 640 each 14 30 '
5 23336 64cjeach 17318640 each
3d Range. 5 456 *9 ' 4
ad Townlhip. 6 464 80 2 49
15 640 7 25c 23324 640 each
B . th 16 600 8 618 3gc ,
, for 2055756 9 ai 4 640 each
lt0 : 21322 640 each 17320 64c each 4th Townlhip.
? of 23 609 23336 640 each 11I4 M" l t
cn " r 64oe3ch 4th Townlhip. ''^L 4O ! v
r 'f 3d Townlhip. I 314 640 each
It' 9 188 60 17320 640 each 6,h^ w n e 'h
10 344 640 each t £
ol » 267 6tbTown(hip.
-of 12 152 lal4 6 4 oje3ch %3 a 36 64°Mch
intil 14 202 50 1732064 c tach f-j,«^each*
[hall 15 630 »3 336 64o[?ach s ■ 4 r^ 4 h
:on. I6aiß 640 each BthTown(hip. aL 4C ar
19 217 50 iai4 64oeach I^a 1 3 ' 4C '^. ar
: di- 20 61675 1732064 c each ,p h
rer- 41336 64oeach 23a366 4 0each 1214040
lited 4thTown(hip. tothTownlhip. 1 7 a 20 40 eac
I 170 13-1 A ', 4 cte3ch each
4 544 I7aac 640 iach I2tll^ wn
,!lars 3 320. 23336 6 4 ol£ach 1 ai4j6 4 C|each
3tor 4 • 450 12thTownlhip. *7ai#4cfach
5 12c iai4 64de3ch 23836 64c|"ch
k V a : 6 64c r 7 a2c6 4 oe3ch Uthlownftip.
V*£ 7 >563 23236 6 4 o|each lal # 4 cjeach
Bas 64ct»cli i4thTown(hip. 17 a 20640kac i
,P"' 10 54c 80 iai 4 640)e3ch 2 3a36 6 4 c|e3ch
II 5 1 ? 7° 17220 640 e3ch '6thTownlhip.
I2ai4 640 each 23a36 64oeach 12141640 each
lon „ t 7 «.c 640 each 17320 640 e-ach
1 (,e 23836 64c .eachl ?3a36|64o|eaeh
iety, NOTE.
>f the THEou?.ntities of Lands in the fcveral towolhips be
'lnted fore cientiooed, are exclusive of the Lots reserved by the '
Up ted States and also of those formerly fold —The ag
d de- gregate quantities in th» several townfhirs or fraaional
?due, parts of tow nfhips, have been ascertained* by aflual fur
that vey ; the quantities in particular lots or fedior,#, have
it the Lcen no othetwifeafcertained than by calculation.
Lands of the Uiiited States.
Treasury Department,
Aitguft 8, 1796.
Public Notice is hereby given, J
IN pursuance of an a& of Congress pasTed an the 18 th
das of May. 1796. entitled « an a&,providing "for
the sale of the tends of the United States, in the territory ;
north-well of the river Ohio, and above " the mouth oj
Kentucky river," that the Quarter Towsfhipa of land
I delcribed in the annexed schedule, lying in the seven rang
es of towafhips whieh were surveyed in pursuance of an
ordinance of Congress, pasTed on the twentieth day of
May. in the year one thousand seven hundred and eighty
five, will be exposed for sale at PUBLIC VEND JE, at
he Merchants'Coffee-Houfe in Philadelphia, on the 4th
1 day of January next, and thenceforward from day to day,
r until the tenth day of Fabruary ensuing unless the said
1 quarter townships (hall be foe.ner fold, in the manner and
„on the terras and conditions hereinafter mentioned : viz
ift. The said (fiarter townships (hall be fold to the
" highest bidder, but bo sale. can be made for Ids than two
dollars per acre of the quantity of land contained in such
quarter township.
- 1 2d. "The highest bidder as before mentioned, mutt de
pofit'a* the time of sale, one twentieth part of the pur
_ chafe money, in the hands of the Treasurer of the United
" States, which will be forfeited if a moiety of the sum bid,
including the said twentieth part, shall not be paid within
thirty days from the time of sale.
3d. Upon payment of a moiety of the purchaie-ma
ney in the manner the purchaler will
be entitled to one year's credit for the remaining moiety ;
and shall receive a certificate describing the quarter rem
(hip purchased, and declaring the sum paid on account,
the balance remaining due, the time when such balance
becomes payable, and that the whole Land therein men
tioned will be forfeited, if the said balance is not then
"paid ; but if the said balance shall be duly dlfcharged, by
paying the fame to the Treasurer of the United States,
the purchaser or his afligneeor other legal reprefeotative,
{hall be entitled to a patent for the said land, on his pro
ducing to the Secretary of State a receipt for such balance,
endorfedupon the certificate. But if any purchaser shall
make payment of th« whole of the purchase-money at the
time when the payment of the firft moisty is directed t„
be made, he will be ' entitled to a deduAion of ten per
centum on the part for which a credit is authorized to he
given ; and his patent Hi all be immediately ifFucd.
GIVEN under ray hand at Philadelphia, tho day
aodycar airovemciuipned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
SCH EDULE
Of Quarter-Townships to be fold at Philadelphia, in pur
suance of the 6th feftiou of an ad of Congress palled on
thelßthdayof May, 1796.
.0 ix
co CO c:
• cu 0 c
cu .ir Y >
U * — _c * >
tx *£ o
I% I h
t £ H s fc I '
U-. " k V- p eg
•-s £ e u
o" 0 ' £ < =.£
ZO2 * v
* O a.S
H
2 Sooth East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
3 5 South Eafl 5120
- ... NortK EqA ,
South Weft 51-20
North Weft 5120
20,480
7 South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
— -50,480
9 South Eafl 5129
North East 5 120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
—: ?0;480
11 South East 5120
North Eafl 5120
South Weft 51.20
North Weft 5120
—— 20,480
4 4 Ssuth Ea(t 5120
North East 5120
, South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
>0,480
South East 5120
North East 5 120 —
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
8 South East 5120
North East 5120
South Well 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
10 South East -5120
North East 5120
Sonth Weft 5120
North Weft 1 5120
: 20,480
12 South East 5120
* North East 5120
South Weft' 5120
Noitb Weft 5 120 |
[20,480
5 3 South East 4602
North East 4654
South Weft 5 120
North Weft 5120
19,49 6
5 South East 5120
Nortlv.Eaft 5 120
South Well 5120
North Weft 5' 20
[20,480
7 South Ea(t 5120
I North 5120
II South Weft 5120
North Weft 5 120 '
is be- V 20,480'
iythe" 6 9 South East 5120
e a S~ iNorth East 5120
(South Weft 5 120
h" ve [North Weft 5120
J j 20,480 1
t - ' S '«§ !
£ o C I .
5 cu s i— .3
sfc -- S *0- —(
<* "= U " 5 -
1 *• i u ji "c ,-j j■
-® 2 < 3 " -
or* c js I
; 55 # ' *t| I '
1 h -I
, . y n South Eart!yi2o: |
f Nart.b Eaftjy 120
South Weft y f 2oj j
North Weft 5 120 I
1 | 20,480
j 13 South East .5 120:
d . _ Noith Eaftyi2o| ' <
g -" &muh Well :ci2p; '
North Weft 5 I 20'
h I i 20,480
'6 4 South EaH 14630
N.orth- Ead 14620
• South 20 ■
, d North.Weft| JI 20
' I 9A9°
6 South East 4730;
s- North E*ft!47is
iSou'h'Weft s"i 20 I
; North Weft 5120}'
v, ! — rsvrn
:e 8 [South East yj2to
,:jNor-th Bart 15 MO.-:.
;n iSoulh Wcltjy 1 20
J y , i.Noiith Weft y 12c
l' t '1— — 20,480
0- 10 South East ,y 120
;e, North Eaft!yi2o ' . ' -
lU S&uth Weft U'l 20
g North' Well yl2O
?r - 20,480
be 12 South East 5120 ,
Nbrth East 5 120
a y South Weft 5120 . f
North Weft .5 120
: 20,480
14 South East 5120 x
Nprth East '5.120
South Wr I! J 1 20
on Nof.'h Weft 5120
20,480
— 73 South Eafl yil-9
Notth East y 12c
South Wed 5 I 20
North Weft y 120
•T 20,480
5 South East 5120 V
Nbrth Eafl 5120
South Weft y 120
North Weft 5120
' 20,480
7' -South East 5120
North East yi2o
South Weft 5120
Nfcrth Weft Jl2O
20,480
9 South Eafl 5120
__ 'North East 5120 _L-
North Weft y 120
{20,480
s ,11 South EaS yi2o
North Eafl y 120
South Weft y i2O
North Weft y 120!
20,480
13 South East yt 20
North East yt 20
South - Wefi yi2o
NorthWest yi2o
20,480
1J South Eafl y 120
North Eafl y 120
South Weft y 120
NorthWest yi2o
I 4 20,480
NOTE.
THE quantities of Lands in the feveraltownfhips he
fore mentioned,are exckfive of the Sedtions reserved by
the United States. The aggregate quantities is the seve
ral town [hips, have been afcertair.ed by adtual survey ; but
the quantities in the quarter tewnfhips, have .been no
otherwise ascertained than by calculation.
Wafhmgtoyi C.nnnU^ott^rVj—
NO. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorised
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Wathington, from th I'o;
tomacto theEaftem Branch Hari.our.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz -1 Prize of 20,000 dollars, 10,000
X ditto 10,000 io,qpo
7 last drawn")
Tickets, each £ 3S>-°o9
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,0
SO ditto 100 a,OOO
55 ditto JO • 2,750 j
5750 ditto 12 69,008
To be raised for the Canal, 16,250
5850 Prizes, 175,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.'
17500 Tickets, atTen Dollars, - <175,000
The Commiflioners have the Securities cc
quired by the aforefaid aA for the punAual payment ©f
the prizes.
The. drawing ef this Lottery will commence, without
delay* as soon as tt* Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prizes are not demanded in months alter th«
drawing is finiihed, ihall be as relinquished for
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated
(S, S ned j NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, p/D
---LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wsfc M.JJQNCAN*r>V
THOIvLiS LAW,
JAMES BARRY
Cky of Walhingtom, Feb. 11.
PRINTED BY JOHN
—No. xio-
CH E S SWT-STF . >t
[Price Eight Dollars f>er f.nruta.]