fc- • \. > / " v • » Jr
i » \ - r . . . . t * .- £S*3 »*>'- - " • / '
l*- •'
of the d 4 Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
W»ii M 06.1 THURSDAT EVENING, JULT 7.1,1796. [F^.virjr
! — 1 — ' T" i„ vt _ I c 1 r» •-1 1 . By aa Artist reisdetu it Mr. Oellers's Hotr,.
For Sale or Charter,
, THE SNOW 1
BOSTON,,
2000 BbU. of flour—fWe maybe sent jj?
t.. sea at a finall cxpence, her fails and rigging being 111 on
very gooi order —apply to .. Ms
fames Campbell, or
§ : George Latimer. 1
»pril, 19. L—
WStoL For sale, v
(On a libera' credit) *
I iiiHtiSSWffil The fad failing copper-bottomed BRIG 1-2
'fmmS Amiable Matilda,
,»«™ pk « «*. for -
ply to § eve
July 7. _ wa
Snow Hebe. tio
FOR SALE, -T
The Snow'H EBB, IN
faithful Philadelphia built veflel, ear-
of grain or *600 barrels flour, is rea
dytAa ™ly n to Cirg °' Sh£ 13 PETER BLIGHT.
Who has for sale,
Sugar, Coffee, Cocoa, and Pimento.
Also,
A Pared of CHOICE PORT WINE. ■
June 6 t0
'■ Schoo'ner LITTLiTjOHNr
FOR SALE,
THE ScHoyN R R LITTLE JOHN,
CAPTAIN BOYD,
A BOUT 18 months old, a very fact
WrSkf J\ failing veflel, on Virginia Pilot boat
Wfi&frji plan, now laying at South street wharf, _
near 900 barrels, is ready to take
a cargo ; a liberal credit will be given.
Apply to PETER BLIGHT.^
J"'y °
For Sale,
—■i The Schooner
ML LARK,
ON* hundred and twenty tons burthen. A .
2gSg||agnew veffely well found, and fails extremely
Mi Wwell built. For terms apply to the mailer on
Ktr JOSEPH ANTHONY and GO. .
IF the above veflel is not fold by Saturday, Ihe will
take freight on very low terms for Boston.
J«IT I* C
Lottery
FOR railing fixthoufmd fix hundred and sixty-seven fj
dollars and fifty cents, by a deduction of fifteen per g
cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a prize. viz. j
1 Prize of jooo dollars is dollars 5000
j 1000 lOco
l 500 J OO 1
, too loco
4 0 ' 100 ■ >000 1
no 50 49J0
ill *5 300° (
*000 10 >0,000
5 Lad drawn numbers of 1000 dollars each, 5000 |-
233!' Prizes. 44,45°
4018 Blanks.
6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44,45°
By order of the Directors of the Society for eftablifh
in ♦ Ufeful the fuperintendasts of the Pat- |-
erion Lottery have requested the Managers to offer the
foregotDg S<heme to the public, and have direAed them
to refund the money to those persons who bar l : purchased
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
in this Lottery. ... . •„
The lottery has actually commenced drawing, and will
continue until fipifhed. A lift ot the Blanks and Prizes r
may be seen at the oflice ol William Blackburn, No. 64
south Itreet, who will give information where tick- r
tts may be procured.
Dat.dthis 17th day of June, 1796. v
J. N- CUMMING, 7
JACOB R. HARDEN BERG, Managers, f
JONATHAN RHEA, ) (
June iR — - ■ ■ -- " eo_.
Wm. HOLDERN ESSk, " !
No. 76 High Street, [
HAS received,' by the latest arrivals from Europe and
the East Indies, a well feleftcd assortment of Silk
Merely, Linen Drapery and Haberdashery Goods ; which
!,o will fell, Wholesale and Retail, on the lowed terms ; t
amongst which are,
Somr line India muslins embroidered with gold and ffiver
Superfine Book, Jaconet, and Mulmul ditto
do do > do Handkerchiefs
Some black.taffeties,lut«ftrings and colored Persians
Bandano Handkerchiefs ,
; Lonj: and short Nankeens
Engli'Ti Mantuas of the firfl quality
Damaik table linen and napkins, very fine
Silk Hosiery, an elegant assortment
Thead and cotton do
Umbrellas—green silk, oil'd do. and do cloth
French cambrics, very fine
IrisH Linens, do. &c. 3cc. J^ ine T 4
For Sale,
A Three story BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut
street, between Front and Second ftraets, in which
Meflrs. James Calbraith & Co. have for many years (and
liow do) carried on business.
Pofleflion will be given in one month, or sooner.
For terms apply to WILLIAM BEiLL, or
HECTOR CALBRAITH.
April 21. §
Sales of India Goods.
The Cargo of the lhij> Ganges, capt. Angey, from Cal
cutta and Bengal,
CONSISTING OF
ALirge and general assortment of Bengal and Madras
COTTON and SILK GOODS,
among which are
A variety fine vjhrked and plain Nlujlins,
Doreas,' &c. Also,
A Quantity of Exce'lent Sugar,
In boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER.
For Sale by
Willings y Francis,
t No. 11 P«in Street.
Jane 8
Take Notice,
r I 'HAT the Subfcribcr intends to maice applica-
J. tion for the renewal of a Certificate, No. 1609,
for 4000 dollars, dated the 14th December, bearing _
interest at 5 £ per cent, from ifl January, 1796, in the ,
name of David Dunderdale & Co. of Leeds,, in Y»rk- Cl ,
Ihire, merchants. The fame to have been loft
on its way to New York, under cover to Bleecker &
March, of tHatplacc, on the 6th of January last* 01
Thomas M'Euen. T n
PhilidHphia, «2d June, ifji- " 5 6 w
Twenty Dollars Reward. «i
WAS STOLEN, last evening, from the pasture of the
fubferiber, a black Rockingham GELDING, 15 ' '
i-2 hands high, has a star, and some white under his a P
throat, (the part being formerly chafed) ;has a leather on
hi> neck, the mane on the near fide, his foot-locks fretted P r
with a clog, and i«a horse of much bone and size. Who
ever fecurcs him with the thief, fha.ll have the above rc
• ward, or for the Horse alone a very generous compenfa- 0
tion JOHN LAWRENCE. "
_J»ly_7 e °4 w a
New tlat and Hosiery-store, f e
WHOLESALE AND DETAIL,
! By WILLIAM M'DOUGALL, «
No. 134 Market-Jlreett
Third door from the corner of Fourth, feuth fide
Men's Black American and English HATa, of various qua- - n
litics and prices
1 Ditto Drabs and Green unders _
Ladies' ditto, black, and a large assortment of fancy do.
Coloured Beavers, With a great variety of elegant and
falhionable Trimmings §
Youths Black and Drab.eoloured do.
Children's fa»cy do
All kinds of Silk, Silk & Cotton, Cotton Sc Thread HOSE
Knit, coloured Pantaloons
Do. Drawers
Do. Breeches Patterns
Silk ploves
Knotted, coloured do. Cottoa
A quantity of Mending Cpxton, sorted colours,
t #3r- The Hats finiftied in the newest fafhion.
, June 27. eatm
e For iale by the fubferibers,
'• p • IN PtSN-STKEET.
130 quarter Chests t'refh Hyson Tea ;
100 ditto do. frefh Souchong Tea;
300 Boxes China, containing small tea setts of 42 j
pieces;
400 pieces Bandanoes.
Willing iff Francis. •
A January 30 jtaw.
£ Yazoo Lands.
1) May be had at the Editor's Office I! 9, Chefnut-Jlrect,
A few Copies of " a Report of the Attorney
Gcneial to Congress .containing a Collection ol
Charters, Treaties aud other Documents,
relative to and explanatory of the Title to the Land
:n " fnuate in the South Western parts of the United c
:r States, and claimed by certain Companies under a a
law of the State of Georgia, passed January 7th,
'o '79?- '
o ' cj- NOTICE. " ;
10 There will be fold on Thursday the 4th of August, at 3
:0 the Merchants'coffee house, in Second street, t
One thoufancl of the stock ol t
>° the North America Land Company. J
If not previously disposed of. 1
° Philadelphia, 10th July. dts I
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED, ,
;o ( Price three-iixteenths of i Dollar)
!>.- No. I, |
[Elegantly printfd in quarto and embellished with a ,
M superb engraving representing the firft introdudlion i
m of the Maid of Orleans to Charles VII 1
To l>e' cOHtinned in weekly numbers 'till completed J i
:t3 OF THF
m HISTORY OF FRANCE,
:es From the eailieft times until the conclulion of the pre- t
54 sent war
k- firft number of this work and conditions of (
X publication may be seen at the following places, 1
where fubferiptions are received, viz. .
Meflrs. Thomas Dobfon, No 41, south Second- 1
rs * street; Mathew Carey, No. ill, Market-street: John ]
Ormrod, No. 41, Chefmlt-ftreett booksellers ; and by
S. I. Denoon, bookbinder, Fariner's-row, Dock-street;
John Aitken, No. 193, south Second-street; at Bio
ren and Madan's printiug-oifiue, back of 77, Doek
ftieet, Philadelphia d4t.
~ Just Publifhedr
ich BY THOMAS DOBSON,
> At the Stane House, No, 41,l'outh Second street,
er neatly printed in one volume quarto, price fix
dollars the fine paper, or five dollars the com
mon:
ins The Four Gospels,
TRANSLATEDfrom the GREEK,"with PRE
LIMINARY DISSERTATIONS, and notes
CRIITCAL and EXPLANATORY,
By GEORCE CAMPBELL, D. D. F. R. S.
&c.
Principal of Marifchal College, Aberdeen.
The cbarafter of the Author for acutenefs
and eiudition lias been established by his efiay on
miracles in anlwer to David Hu re," the greatelt
c ], masterpiece of the kind everpublilhed, and by his
nd " Pljilofophy of Rhetorie," and to the merit of
the present work, the result of nearly forty years
liudy and application, and the substance of his
course of le&ures in his official capacity, the
reviewers have given ample tellimony, but their ac
couftt, however honorable to the * otk, is too long
for a place in this advertisement, the woik howev
er is now presented in an American edition at not
more than half the price of the London copy.
July 2Q. 41VIW
ras TO BE LET.
A LARGE Commodious dwelling House, No f .124,
Spruce street, with a convenient stable and Coach
Houfe,—AiTo sot sale a Chariot but little the worse for
Use. June 2. eotf
C A B L E S,
From 16 ro 9 J inches, for sale by
Jtretniah Warder,
No 1 a noi ih Third-ilreet.
July 1* 1 5
Samuel Richardet, ; i
"O ESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen : M
lv Merchants, that he has this dsy opened the CITY j A
TAVERNan.I MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in the J- A
city of Philadelphia. j ture
The Subscription Room will be fuinifhed with all the Hi
daih' papers oublilhed in Philadelphia, N;w-York, Bos- [ blanc
too, Ba'.tim i, together with those of the princijf'.l com- | n - tb
mercial eiti<» of Europe—They will be regularly filed trona
and nmieporrfutted to be taken away on any account. N.
s ea, Coffee, ioupes, Jellies,' Ice Creanii, and a variety M
of French Liquors; together with the usual rcirelsfScut6, "
wilV*at alt times be procured at the bar,
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
the of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the moll
approved Malt Liquors framLondon and other breweries. T
The Larder will be supplied with the prune and earlicft V V
productions of tho Season. two}
Large and small Parties, or firigle Gentlemen, may be a Ca
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at toma
hours molt conv nient t» themselves—a cold Collision is
! regularly knot for conveniency, the Bill of Fare to be had
i at th® bar.
The lodging Rooms will Be completely furniftied, and
the utmofl attention paid to cleanliness, and every other
requisite.
•0" S«muel Richardet will be happy to receive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfelf that nothing oil his part fhaJi be wanting to pre
serve that patronage with which he has been so diftinguifh
ingly Honored.
Philadelphia, April 19. 5
City cf Walhington.
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11, t
FpR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE S ui r
FEDERAL CITY. the
A magnificent ? ao,ooo dollars, & 7 , 0 , 000 deh
dwclling-houfe, J cash 30,000, are J J noti
1 ditto 15,000 & cafu 25,000 40,000 s
l ditto 15,060 k cash 15,000 30,000 ,j rl ,
I ditto 10,000 ic calh 10,000 *0,000 t jj e
I ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 lo,oco
I ditto 5,,000 & cilk 5,00 c/ 10,000
I cash prize of 10,000
» do. 5,000 each, are, • 10,000
10 do. i,«oo - * 10,000
20 do. s©o • - lo,oo«
100 do. 100 " • 10,000
sio d». 50 10,00# (
4ca do. J5 - - l«,ooo —
i,oco do. so - ao,ooo
15,000 do. I# • 159,000
16,7i9 Prizes.
Blanks.
' 50,050 Tickets, at Eight Dollarsj 40,0000
I N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity of
Tickets, the prize.of 40,000 dollars will be the last drawn allt
I tick.-t, and the 30,ooothe last but one : j l "'
! And approved notes, securing payment in either monjy j" 1 :
' or prizes, in ten days alter drawmg, will be received for
' any number uct less than 30 tickets.
This Lottery <. ill afford an elegant specimen of the pri
vute buildings to be erected in the City .1 Walhington.— ar »
Two beaut are already iele(slcd for the entire ov
fronts on two of the public squares; from these prawings w;
it is propoled to erect two centre and four corner buildings,
1 as soon as possible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurirs, in p ri
f the manner defcribcd in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery. ul t
A nett deduction of fiv. per cent, will be made to defray ls :
► the necessary expenles of printing, &c. and the surplus P a
will be midc a part of the fund intended for the National " 1:
Univcriity, to be crefled within the city of Washington. dw
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are an f
fold off.--The r,.oney prizes will bepayablein thirty days
jfter it is finifhad ; and any prizes for which fortunate ° a
numbers ai e not produced >yithin twelve months after the ™
a drawing i» closed, are to be confulered as given towards ™
1 the luni for tin- Univcrfity ; it being determined to fettle - a
the whole buitnefs in a year from the ending of the draw- S°
] ing, and to take up the bonds given as security.
The real securities given for the payment of the Prizes, m '
are held by the President and two Dire'&ors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a '
mount of the lottery.
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of
the late Commilfioners alTifted'in the management of the
1 Hotel Lottery are requefled to undertake this arduous task
a second time on behalf of the public ; a fufficient num- y
- ber of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the d<
n friends to a National University 7 »'1 the other federal ob- I! 1
y je<fts may continue to favor the def'ign.
; By accounts received from the different parts of the J
1- Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets
have been sent for sale* the public are allured that the
drawing will speedily commence, and that the c&rc and
caution unavoidably necessary to insure a fafc disposal ol
the tickets, hars rendered the ltior fufpe,nfion indiipenlable.
SAMUEL BLODGET. T
Tieketsmay be had at the Bank of Columbia ; of cr
James Weft & Co.' Baltimore ; of Peter Oilman, Boston ; P 5
* of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard W«lls, . w
]- Cooper's Ferry. u
Loft, I
(~\?1 Thursday 30th Ji nc, on the road from Philadelphia
»S Vv ro the Falls of Schuylkill, and about the fifth mile,
a brown and wh te mottled POINTER DOG, anfwersto p
r. the name of Don, had on round his neck a collar engrav- ti
ed Waller Phillips, Philadelphia. Whoever will bring C(
him to Mr. Kid, No. 19 a Market-street, will rcceive a re- cl
ward of ten dollars.
fs N. B. The owner fufpefts that the Dog is tied up, alfe
he would have returned. The above Reward will be giv
,[ en to any peifon giving that information if true. a
£ Chien d'Arret perdu. . r
JEUDI le 30th Jnin on a perdu fur la route de Philadel- t
phie aux Chutes de la Schuylkill, a cinq milks de la
18 ville, un Chien d*Ari-et marque de taches Blanches et
ie bruues. I! reponde au nom de DON et porte un collier fur
; lequelfoht grave les mots Waller Phillips, Philadelphia.
Quiconque menera ce chicn chez Monsieur Kid, rue du
Murche, aura dix. gourdes de rccompenfe.
II y a lieu de foupconner que le chien eft tenli attache
n quelque part; autrement il leroit deja revenue de luim£me.
Jn donnera la ditc rccompenfe a celui qui peut indiquer le c
lieu ou ce chien Ce trouve ...untenant.
July 16 1 *3'
— — 1
4, JITST ARRIVED,
;h 175 Hogsheads of Choice
St. CROIX SUGARS.
Also,
A quantity of Rum.
F#r Sale by
Yard.
July 13 **
By aa Artifl rd'ldent at Mr. Qellers's Hote.,
j M I N 1 A T U R E LI K. F. N E SS"S
i A RE taken and executed in that ckgact and delicate
; -£ A- ftilc, which UCo nectary to render a Miniature Pic
ture an Intercftiug jewel.
He will warrant a ttrnnf and indlfputaljle rcfrtn-'
blance; and he takes the liberty to lay bofiore the jniblic
• of this place his nrrtt earrn'ft intention %0 ieferve tScETjpa* "
tronage by his heft endeavors to pleaft.
N. B. Specimens are to bj fecn.
May n . §
■. . - * ■/" 'Jt ij • _ . i_..,-ujrtf
Waftimgton Canal Lottery,
N°. I.
WHEREAS At State of Maryland has authorifoi
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix tiioufsnd,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cuttisg
a Canal through th City of Walhington, from the Pa-,
tomacto the Ea'.tern Branch Harbour.
The following is the SCHEME of So. I.
Viz -X Prize of io,ooo dollars, »0,oot»
I ditto 10,000 10.00 a.
7 last drawn f
Tickets, each f 5,004 35fi00
6 ditto 1,009 6,000
10 ditto 409 ; 4,00 a
ao ditto 100 »,000
55 di "» 50 1,750
5750 ditto IS 69,008
To be railed for the Cam!, 16,15 a
5850 Prizes, 175,00 a
11650 Blank-, not two to a priae.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - *75,000
#5" The Commissioners have taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid lA for the punctual payment *f
the prizes.
The drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after th«
drawing is finilhed, (hall be confidercd as relinquished foe
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(SignedJ NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, e/D.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS' LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of WafhisgtoH, Feb. XI, $
For Sale,
A LARGE ELEGANT AXP WELL FINISHED
Tliree-ftory Brick House,
(The late rcfidence of General Walter Stewart}
WITH a LOI df GROUND thereunto belonging,
the weft fide ef Third-llreet, near Union-street
,f containing in front 3a feet, and in depth ibo feet, to aa
„ alley leading into Union-ftrcet. Thehoufe is 32 feetfro»t
and 50 feet deep ; the several rooms -contained in it are
y large, aommodious, and completely Sniflicd; thetwofirft
, r (lories are each 13 feet high; there arc 20 mahogany
doors, in the house ; a geometrical ftaircaie, with mahoga
ny rails and a good Iky-light. The kitchen is in the cell.
_ ar, which is spacious and cqnvenient, and finilhed with aft
:e 6ven, slew-holes and pantries, a servants' hall and large
~ wiiw-ccl!ar adjoinisg the kitchen, in front of which is an
' S) area in which there is a pumf> The yard is vaulted.
,y Communicating with the said building is a neat three-llory
i n brick house, on the north fide of Union-street, pontain
y. i«g 3° front by 20 feet deep; the lower part of which
iy is at prefentoc.n:pied a*s a compting-houfe, and the upper
w part divided into well-finifhed large chambers. This house
a j may at a small expense be converted into a convenient
dwelling : The street door is very handsome, and the front
re and back have Venetian windotv-fhutters. Adjoimngthe
y S Last house, upon the lot belonging to the firfl, are creiiled
te bathing-rooms, &c. There are likewifc very good coach*-
ijj ho aft and lVables finilhed equal (or nearly so) with any in
j 5 the city, on a lot containing on Union (Ireet 30 feet, and
l e ia depth 011 the waft fide, of said alley 52 feet. There are
v _ good cellars unde, the whole of the; buildings, and a wine
room over part of the liable, with a hay-loft over the re
.s mainder. For further particulars enquire of
£ EDWaRD & Co.
a At their Office No. 64 Dock-street. between Walnut & Peir
eo streets.
o j 6ih month 24th, 1796.
New Pulii/hmg by the Printer,
n. No. 149, Chefnut-Street, and No. 3, Laetitia Court,
he delivering to Suhlcribers, and to be had at the different
ib- Book-Stores in this City,
The Firjl Number cf
h ® Berriman & Co's
ets . •v
he CHEAP AND ELEGANT EDITION Ot
3 The HOLY BIBLE.
le. Containing the Old and Naw
Testaments and the Apocrypha, with marginal notes and re
0f erences. An Index ;or an.account of the moll remarkable
n . passages in the old and new Testament, pointing to the places
wherein they happened, and to the places of scripture where
' in they are recorded.—A Table of Time.-—Tables of scrip
. ture measures, wfeightsand coins : with an appendix,contain*
ing the method of calculating its measures of surfacec
hitherto wanting in Treatises on thit fubjeft. A Table of Offices
and Conditions of men.
hia conditions
ile, 1. The size of this Edition will be a LARGE FOLIO*
\to printed «n a beautiful new type, and good paper, made par
rv- ticularly for it, It will be published in Numbers, not to ex
ing ceed 30, one of which will be delivered weekly to fubferib*
T £ m ers, at a quarter of a dollar. Those fubferibers who prefer
receiving the work complete, will be attended to by (ignifying
jf e the fame on any of the fubfeription papers in rhe Bookstores
,j v- in this city.
2. There willbc an advance in the price, on fubferibing
_ after the fiift of August next.
3 In the courfeof the Work will be given an elegant
Fror*tifp?ece—From an Engraving of the celebrated artist,
[ c Gricnion.
j a Berriman Co. gratefillyacknowledge the veiy liberal
jet encouragement they bavemet with; and havereafonto Relieve
ur that the execution of their edition will answer every expec*
i . tation, and fpeaA its own pr&ife.
May 26 ' 3aeoww.
FOR SALE.
the A FOUNT of BREVIER, half worn ; about fourhun
me - I\ dred weight. Enquire at the Office of the Gazette
r'e of the United States, No. 119 Chefnut-ftreet. §
t Just Arrived,
In the Snow Boston, James Kirkpatrick, master from Li*
verpool,
50«0 Bufheli SALT ;
100 Otate9 QUEENS WARE; and
An Assortment of SHIP CHANDLERY;
FOR 5 A L E
On board, at Pine-ilreet wharf. Apply to
]James Campbell, or
George Latimer.
it April 29. . $foreign Intelligence.
TRIAL of CROSSFIELD FOR AK AT
TEMPT TO KILL THE KING.
[It is some time since the public heard of the at
tempt to kill the king of England by the dif
charge of an air gun ; and the confinement of
one Crofsfield, as the principal in the conftrilc
tion and life of the gun. It may now be inter
elling to learn the ifTtie of the trial, under at
indidment for the offen. e. The cafe wa» warm
ly pleaded by the attorney general, and ably dc
fended by the prisoner's cotinfel—but as they
deiailed no circum It aires in the butitiefs not men
tioned 6y the witneflefl~-»^ii* c -""* v4 '* ,: d ttiepdea
--J jvAun; and only pnblifhtd tbeevi
dence.J [Bolton Mt-rcury.
LONDON, May 12.
» OLD -BAILEY.
Yesterday the court, confitling of Jirltires Ey>e,
Grofe, and the Recorder, fat at the tifual bout, but
were wot able to impan»el a Jury till half palt three
in the afternoon ; when Robert Cr -fsfield w <6 put
to :«e bar, charged, as well as several other 9, with
havi Tg conftruCtrd an inftrnment fur blowing a dart
loaded with poison, with an inte tto kill'the king*
The fi'ft witness was John Di»ndrr,a brass foun
der iti New street fquaie, who :fwore 'hat Upton
and two other men cade at his mailer's a«d asked
for a tube of certain dimerfioi s, but refufed to
tell him for what purp.fe they wanted it
J >feph Flint and Thomas Bland, likewise two
brass founders, gave evidence ;o t'»e fame tffeil.
David Ciukber'.a mathematical inltrumenl ma
ker, had some converfati.jN with Up'on and auoth- ■
er man refpe&ing an airguu. The other man t, Id
liim he wa# very fond ot (hooting : and had 101 l
iomeof lingers by the firing <.f a gun.
A Mr. Palmer, of Barnard's Inn, had known
'-.Crofsfield 15 or 16 years, and had accompanied him
and L'pton to the different brass founders already
mentioned, but said lie did not understand the na
ture of tlie bjfirefg, and that it was refpeifting Up
ton's business that they called at these different
brass founders.
John Hail), turner of Bartholomew close, said
that he was a member of the Lor* on Correspon
ding Society, and belonged to the 6th division.—
He knew Upton and Palme- in Sept. 17:14. They
and a stranger came to his hfiufe at that time, and
having a(ked him, whether he could turn io wood,
a sketch was made out by thr stranger and himlelf,
agreecble to their directions. He believed the
Iketch was the fame as that produced in Court It
wasdotie in irk before him, and was drawn out 011
the back of a bi|l sot letting lodings. Having
ed what it was intended for, he was informed by
them that it was meant to be used in an electrical
-machine. He fjjid, on his cross examination, that
Upton had been disgraced in the London Coiref
ponding Society by Higgins and Le Maitre.
Ihe Loid Chief Jultic obferveo, that it was un
necessary for the prisoner's Counlrl to invalidate,
what was not in fait before the court —theteltimo-
nyof Upton.
Mr. Adam having argued that point at some
length, the chief justice said, that as Upton's de
claration was that of a man not upon oa h, it for
med no evidence whatever: '
After some arguments bet .veen Mr. Garrow.the
attorney general, and Mr. Adam, on the propiiety
of producing confeffional'evidei.ce to r(tablift) she
guilt of the pr fiiner, the court decided that mea
sure in favor of the profeeuiion.
The firft witness called was John Le Briton,
who said, that he was boat fleerer.to the Pomona
South Sea-whaier, and failed from Falmouth 011
the 13th of Feb. 1796. The prifoner,CrofsfieH,
came on boaid as fargeon, a.week before the (hip
failed-from Portsmouth, which was on the 29th of
Jan.* He was not at that time acquainted jvitli the j
name qf the prisoner, who generally went by the
name of the dodtor. The Pomona was taken on
the ijth of Feb. by Le Vengeance Nafional cor
vette. The prisoner, with some others, was put
on board v the corvette, and the witness beard him
fay, on quitting the Pomona to go on board the
Frenchman, that he was happy at going to France
and much better plcaf. Jon that account than if he
were to return to England. He had never heard j
that the prisoner's name was Crofsfick), till his ar '
rival at Brest, which Kappened on the 23d of Feb.
ThrV were often in company 'oge her in the poison- \
<hip at Brest, and be heard Crofsfield fay, that he
was one of those who invented the air gun to af
f.ifiinaie his majetty. The witness aflted him what
the gun resembled ? 3nd he said, that an arrow was
to be driven through a kind of tube by the force
df i: flammable ait ; thr arrow was represented to
be like a haipoon used in Ariking whales. They
were, after some time, to be sent home in a cartel,
and the prisoner then assumed the name of H.
Wilson ; and put his own name down the second j
in the muster lift. He embarked for England in
the eartel ship by the name of H. Wilson, and was
described in the mutter lift as belonging not to the
Pomona, but to the Hope.
The witnefle* being crots-rxamined, admitted
that he and the prisoner went on shore together at
Portsmouth, and walked publicly about the fy-eets.
Thomas Denis, chief mate of the Pomona, said
the piifone# had declared, aftei they had failed,
that if Pitt knew where he was he would fend a
frigate after him. He acknowledged thatie was
privy to the delign of getting his majesty afT.iffi
nated at the play houfr, and knew how the dart
was conftrufted. The prisoner also said to him,
that if Piit had come over any other bridge than
Westminster bridge, he would have-fceen shot.
When he airived at Brest, he boalted that he had
no longer any occasion to bu ashamed or afr:<id of
his name—Dennis then corroborated the evidence
of Le Briton with iefpe£t to the prifoner's*cbang
ing hi* name'tp Wilson.
Mr John Winter, owner of the Sufan'nah, frotr
Newfoundland, and earned into Brett on the 13.1
of December, said he was introduced to Crofsfic h
oil Iward the Revolution piifon ship at Brest. Tht
ptuufKT told bitn Lis name wai Tom Payne, and
f *
■ »laughed heartily. He cor,felled he had itat at
his majesty near Buckingham honfe. and had mu
. fed him.- ' The witness was often in company with
he prisoner during Ihe fpasc of five months at
Brest, and Crofsfield told him that he had invented
the pop-gun, which he dcfcribed as »tnbe about a
foot and a half long, ma le for the purpose ol dif
t- charging a poisoned ariow, which was to make lii->
f maielty expire in the greatest agony. The prifun
■A tt said he could kill a man at the distance of 3 dr
c- yards will it, and without any Boili. This
r language was used Crofsiuld very often : |>er
n haps 40 or 50 time% and in the presence of feve
B-* ialo'hers. He declared, that he had ordered rhe
e poison to be mixed at the Che,nirt's. Ef sometimes
•y said, that miffing his majrlty was vtry u duckv,
n- and fometimcs I hat it was d——d unlucky. He
a- Jiope.l that he Ihould fee the day d/hen the llree.s
1 of London would run ankle deep with Ihe bipod
<f. of his majesty and his party. He frequently ex
prefled himfelf in those terms before 'many others.
The witnefes particultrly 'ecolletted he did
so in the presence of Captain Gallery and Captain
; Collins. '* -
n ' Mr. Winter said, on his cross examination, that
. r the prisoner was at that time in the habit ot driuk
„ ing Itrong liquors.
h Samuel Benet said, that he was on bdard the
- t Elizabeth prison-ship with Crofsfield, at Brest.
r He at onf time heard the prisoner sing an impio
]. perfong, and ex daim, " Damnaiion 10 the king
n of England !" He confefled, that he was one of
those who attempted to blow a poisoned dart at his
0 majesty. The witAefs told him that no true En
glishman would sing such a song ; and the prisoner
0 threatened to him put in irons. Ciofafield
declared that Tom Payne's works were the belt in
. the world 5 and said, that if ever he arrived in
. England; he would attempt to Ink- away the
j king's life again. The witness met him again on
) lizard the Cartel, aid he was desired by Crofsfield
not to take any notice of what had paflei on board
, the Eli'/.abrih.
, Waltrr Colmsn, who apprehended Crofsfirld on
f board the CartH ship, said, that he had offered to
him ?nd t. e other man who were conducting him
to Bodmyn, a guinea each if they consented to let
t him effape. As for the driver, he decided, if
they gave him a pistol he would soon fettle liim.
) Elizabeth Upton, wife to Thomas Upror;, said
. ihat (h? had seen her husband foi the l ift time on
tht 22d of February lall, be'ween and nine
, o'llock in the mo-aing His hat was afterwards
j biought t6 her by a waterman. She never saw her'
j hufbind diu k in. her lite.; (he k > ,w Cr- fsfield,
and had fc;en him trequenjly ai her husband's house
. in company with Palmer ; she saw one of the in
, ftruments produced in court at her husband's (hop
, —it was brought there by Hill, but (he saw
the tube there.
, George Steers said, he attended a meeting of
| the Comfponi'ing Society, and saw Upton there
,■ with fomni ing in his hand, which appeared to be
like the tube then in court.
Thomas Puley corroborated ihe evidence giveij
. by Sie'ers, ar.d added, that Upton (lyiok his head
when he ua» asked by him what the tube was de
[ flgned fo-*?
Mr. Mortimer, the gun smith, explained the ef
. feft of an air gun, and of a feathered at row, the
. drawing of whicfi had found in Upton's
house, as well as the brass tube. It may be im
proper to publilh all that was defl ribed on this A:b
. jrft. He said it was a most dangerous and fatal [
, weapon.
. Mi.Wird, a'bairiflet. had seen the delign, and
. shewed it 10 Mr. Mortimer,, in Upton's house.
The ju-y brought in a verdiit not guilty.
; WATERFOKD, March 17.
1 It is with" pleifure weinform the pub!:'», that Mr.
' Cox* has completed the Rojs to the entire fatif
-1 fadtion of the commiflioners, and for which they have
> re urned him their public thanks.
f We are informed that' Mr. Co'.t sets out for Portu
ir.a in the course or this week,in order to ertdt a bridge
, over the nver Shannon, at that place.
Mr. Cox has been in this kingdom 6ve years' and
nine months, and lias built tne following bridges, over
diffeient rivers. '
Length. Breadth. Depth, At low water.
1 Londonderry," 1068,' feet,' 40 feet, 31 fe;t,
. Waterford, . 83a 49 37
. VVex:ord, i is4 _ 3 a 20
. F«-iyC*i-rig, 340 2 7
! . Rofc, ;fo 40 20
I Afro a Drawbridge at Dublin, -over the great Ra
-1 son at King's End.
Portima bridge, when completed, will be about
84* feet long -depth of water 24 feet.
(*Mr. Cox is an American, a native of Bjfton.)
LONDON, May 1. *
Extras of a letter from Calcutta, dated 24th Decem
ber, 1795.
" Of the many strange events that have lately hap
pened, that of our supplying you with bread, is not
the lead remarkable. To keep in unifoti with it, we
| have only to apply to Carolina to Tupply Bengal with
rice, and then the fyitem will be complete*: a viflei y
of poffjbilities over all human calculation.
" The otily intelligeßee that has traiifpired by the
last over-iand'paekttj is that you are flatyim;; and in
return you may expeflto hear (probably hy this con
-1 veyance).that we are in a liopefuU;ay hi India. This
army is not to be amused with i'peeches They have
: no better opinion ot' the integrity of a House ot' Com
• mous, than the House Jiave «rf theirs, and it requires
I "intthing more than the eloquence of Mr DuneUs t.->
, lull the officers into security. Though I ani sat.in the
1 ■ cre 'l I own that lam hot without apprefceofionj that"
. before this reaches you, you will hear of the army havi
tig taken upon itfelf the redrifs of its grievances. On
lins you may rely they are fully prepared, and do not
want rcfolution, inelination, or unanimity.
, "In coufequence of an advertil'einrnt from the Go
vernor, fir John Shore, prohibiting for the future cei
. tun meetings of military officers, a deputation from
1 hat corps was appointed to wait on him ; and by thein
f <ie was.told, in very plain English, that to his prohibi
tion they neither would nor could ; and that
js to their ohjefl, they both could and would, &c Up
in which fir John Shore thot' it advU'eable to retrafl his
->rder, and pacify them with promises as well as he
,:ould.
ST, VINCENT'S.
Kingjfwn, July 1 r .
: We feel inexpreflible pleafurein beiug able to
ccngrattilate olir readers on ibe glpncus events of
yellerdav, when the bra.ery of our troops m a few
hours tubdued the eheray attheVigie. >V« (hall
begin our detail with the occurred®* that preceded -
that brilliant affair, whu;h is dccil'ivc withreipedt |
t„ our molt formidable enemy the French Repub-
His.Excellency General Sir Ralph Abercrombie
returned here frora Carincou on 'l'hurfday lad, in i
his M 'jelly's si iga'e the Arethufa about that time !
the whole foice deftinedfor the service of the lfland, I
either had arrived, or were off this Bay workirg
in. Wcdncfday about one o'clock in the after- i
noon, the trcops were landed, and immediately
marched itpto Ivon Hiil, Cflue Oarden, and Great- t
heed's wheie thev were cantoned. Ihe dif[>oti i- t
onsfor attacking the enemy, being made, the troops |
marched in the afternoon of Thurfiiay in the foi- <
lowing order : '
To Matiaquavaley.
Ift Colotrn,' commanded by Bn :• Gen. Knox. ,
20® Loventtcin's Regt. ['Riflemen.J
ioo Heffey's Rangers,
636 14U Regiment.
(
936 (
To Calder Ridge, with a 12 pounder, and a five
and an inch howitzer.
2 d Commanded by Major General Hui.fer.
50 LovenfteiVs, , ,
100 iHeffey's Rangers, (
314 42d Regiment, I
53 1 53 ditto
jo Pioneers
t
t°4C .
To Catapan Ritige, with a brass 12 pounder and
five and a half inch howitzers,
3d Commanded by Major General Moifhead.
50 Lovenftein's,
soJaikfon's Rangers,
254 Buffs,
450 York Rangers,
jo Pioneers.
Sj4
To Rofls's Ridge, with two brass 6 pounders.
4 Comr-.andeci by,Lieut. Col. Fuller,
4O J* kfon's Rangers,
220 J9' h Regimtai,
263 63 I ditto.
jo Pioneers.
573 . a
Up Warrawarou Vallev.
;th, Comma;ded by Lieut. Col. Dickens.
260 2d Weft India Regiment
t
J7 34th Regiment. N
]
3*7 , f
To follow the line of march.
6;h .Refcve, under Lieu;, cul. Speucer.
14J 40'h R gt.
87 J4lll ditto,
23 2 - *
The columns gained ;lieir several positions that j
n 1 l'ht or earfy the next morning, wit'ont any ma
terial occurrence, except the falling in with three
of the enemy it SttibU's eflate, (tin of Whom were
killed 5 atid the-accident of a p;irt of liciit. colonel
1) ickens'sdinfion, fepaiifing fiom the main body
in the daik: cfs of the night. -Lieu enanl (Colonel r
Dickers, however, gained poffi ffion of the right of t
the enemy's volition ; t Louis Patience's before day a
light, an important pas*, -from which the enemy, a
piincipallv Chanube,. fled wi.hout making much re- 1
ft fiance, and where he planted the colours of the 1
34th regiment. Lieutenant ColoncKDic kens at- t
tempted to carry a (Irong and commanding p o st a *
little to the left of Louis Patience's, but did not 1
succeed, and ft'ffered considerably in the attack.— t
1 tie C haraibs from the woods, and the enemy at c
the pelt of the lett, kept uj> a f'mart fire at times t
upenbim; thi y threw (hells, and at lift? brough' \
ip a fwivef, whi. h was oily fired twice, anil did f
no mi.< h;cf. Hi maintained his ground, however, 1
but had ji ki-iled and wounded, out of whicti nutri- [
he , 39 were ofthefmall party of the. 34th in his
div lipn, and ttuee (.fficers.
1 he cotnm s tinder General" Huntfr and Mor
► ffliertd fcejfati to cannonade ti,e OIJ V%ic' 1»..r0 Cal
tier and Carapar) Ri'ges, between 6 and 7 o'clock
in the m riling; the guns at the former were at a
bout joo yards d flan e, ai d the latter pnly 300. t
Partus of the Y ,ik Rangers, Lovenilci.n's corps, J
and of Heffey's Rangers, alio tuok positions in the 1
Canes, and other fitu"tions near the enemy s works,
a-d mill have done coftfitln-vble' execution. The
column under Lieut. Gsl. Fuller was delayed a
by the difficulties they encounteied in
getting on their artilleiy;; Tliry, however, got
up soon af;erthe others, £nd opened their fire some
where in from of the old foundation of fc ofs's house. *
,- Ia 8 ,! " rt tl'e effect^of otir fire were v,S
% great upton the Old Vigitf and orders v,er ■ in
cotifcqnence given at two o'clock to florin it, which
wee executed with a celerity ano intrepidity per
baps never cKeclled. The columns were led on
t> s M jor Stewart of the 4 2d, and
Lieutenant Colonel Blair of the Buffs, and these
legiments had the Initior of carryin.r that post.
I he enemy began to move off as soon as they per
ee.vcd our. roo P s advancing, ,ud just they were
entering die whole fled to their other works. They
V " elC toll and tlve two next works
carnct] m „ke manner, and with the fame ease.
buch w-as the im, ,-uofity of our troops, that about
hfty rtlfiled on to ,he New ant s hai j adua „
go witiun a few yald3of it , when they were re
called. Lieutenant Colonel Fuller also pushed for
wardl at the_time the other columns moved. A
fides "for f " atter th ' S P'ace on both
ides, sot; some time, and about five o'clock, Suit
ViW lld'Z WaS g °'" S t0 °P Cn "P on the New
'f. ,ro "P 8 prepared to storm it, the
enemj t.nt out a flag to General Abercromby
wnhan offer of submission which was accepted'
of" tXrSZ U ' Cir dclivcrin S up the other p P ts I
IriW bi',T M °t' V " n »'
r' ''"'officer wrio came'with the flag
ging Gfneral Abercrombie very much to include I
French inl.abiis.nts and ih c island negro*., who j
'f were in arms with th^m,the eapinilati'on, ami
v the General within* to consult the Govtntn'r »
II the fubjett, the bulincfs was not finc-dfy concluded
d until about nine o'clock next morning,
I noon they marched out w.tli the honois us wur
,- laid down their arms to the number of 460, • , :t |
were conduced to town and embarked inimcdiateir.
e Not withllanding the precau'inns that were t!ik
n en to prevent the escape of the enemy during tlie
c night of the iolh, about 200 are fnppofed to
, have eluded our vigilance, and got away'horn ;he
r Vigie. It is, however, supposed they 'are not got
- far.
Y Lieut. Coj. Haffey'i Rangers afforded the great
. eft afliftance in getting the »nns to Colder rid/e
up a mete precipice : and after they were got toa
s proper fnuation, took to their arms and joined a
• detachment of the 42d regiment and a party of
Lovenlleiu's, in a wood within 90 yards of the
Old Vigie, where they kept up a heavy fj,- e , » tl jj
1 he affanlt began, and then advanced with the relt
Major Jackson's Rangers advanced with the coh:m;i
. up Carapan ridge, and have great piaifc for their
readiness.
The Commander in Chief has mentioned the
Colony Ranges in general orders, in the mod ftat
t teri g terms.—A considerable body of sailors a!fo
accompanied the avtillety, under comma dofCapt,
Banott, and fully jnltifijd by their great exertion
tlie high in which that body are held
With itfpeft to the Regular troops, we want words
to the fenle that is entertaii ed of their gal
lant behaviour : no troops could behave better.
With relpi d to our k>fs, we have great fatisfac.
tioij in Anting* that it is far less than could havs
been expected- from th<s fttength of the enemy'j
I works, aid their defence, which was by no means
•defpicnble. It amounts to about 100 killed and
wounded ; the greater part was filftained by Lieu
tenant Cel. Dickens. The following is the lilt of
pffi er6 killed and wounded.
Capt. Douglas, royal engineer?, wounded.
Buffs. Cap ain Jih iilon, wounded.
34th. Lieutenant o*'Donohue, wounded.
Lieutenant Georges* ditto.
Volunteer Gordon, ditto, since dead.
42d. Lieutenant Simon Frafer, wounded.
59th. Cap'ain Wharton, wounded.
63*1. M j Crofby, wounded.
2d. ■ Weft India. C»pt. M'Leari, killed.
Cap*. Errington, wooadj.f.
Yorke Rangers. M ijof D'Arville, wourfded.
HefFey'i Ri Capt. Rofs wounded.
l"he loss of the et.-jny cannot be afcertais ed
a few only wcre-fu.iiiid and from jo to 6j
Wounded ill the new V^i { which was the
rebel Goiton Audibert. Marinier, with his prin
cipal officers, were conduffed into town after the
o'tier prisoners by a party of the 26th Ij«ht
Dragoons, and embarked 011 boafd his Majesty's
ship Expeiiment, m idlt the strongest marks of the'
indignation of the fpettators.
From the Virginia Gazette, &c.
Lawfield, June loth, 1796.,
Mr. DAVIS,
If ypU'Can Jpare a place in your paper, and think the
following exp rimsn/t worth communication; you
• ■will publi/h them, an J oblige your humble Servant,
RICHARD PARKER.
1 _
I HAVE for a long time believed that,the pro.
I per cul'ivation of turnips would be of great utili
t ty to the faimers, as they are veiy imtriWpu?, and'
' an excellent food f:.r cattle, of tlnir being
1 an wb6lc£»nie and pleafari, root for culinary use.
■ For a great number of years 1 attempted to taile
; them in the common mode, but without fuectfs ;
■ to sow them in the brhad call and hoe theoi'as is »1-
1 ways done in England, I liave tried, but the ig
-1 norance anf* carelessness of negroes, pioved that
■ could not he done to advantage, as no regularity
t could be expelled. At length, four years ago, 1
s thought ot a phn'<>f f .wing whi.h I was confident
1 wo uld prove fucccfsful. as jt did not depend on the
1 fkilfulsclc or attention of negroes, [eveiyccrmwum
, hue negroe, though ever so ignorant, being com
- peteut to the bulincfs.) I procured a lhaight piece
s of timber of two inches and an h.ilf square, fix fjet*-
two inches long, and had piils of right or ninetn
■ chcs lrTTgptbtW in it Ml [mim in iln »t) Ufanee • To
this puce 'of timber containing seven pins, were
l fixed two ftaf s (not for an lunfc but a man to
- draw) and two h 11' Its. f jhui, after the land was
. pin in proper order, marked off a (haight line ; a
, per fun then ill tire (hafts going backwards and
l* keeping the pin at the end of the piece,. i:i the line,
, with another per lon at the handle to affilt in direc
e ting the inltniptient, fix lines were laid off, and by
• continuing- the <vork in the Lme manner,-it was
: Toon gone thnnu h. 1 "afterwards eroded it at
t right angles and foVved the ground tjy dropping two
- or three feeds in each or. Is, which was quickly per
. formed by children as 'veil as grown persons, who
with a finall goard or cup ia one hand containing
1 the feed, with tlpe fiuger and thumb of the other
1 dropped the f eds in each cfofs, and with the three
- hind fingers flirted a litt'? diit over the feed : I his
i work is performed in a much shorter tirae than
j would be fuppi.fed. The hrR expetiment I made
e I was attentive to the time employed in laying off
. and sowing the ground (was half an acre) which
was !ay,ed off i:i fquates in two hours and an half,
e and sowed in three, by very awkward hards as may
f be fujipolcd, as 'twas their firlf assay. When the
s turnip-tops were the iize of a piflareen, all were
. drawn out except one, the ground was hoed or
t worked twice, and from-the half acre 1 measured
f 225 bulliels of turnips'"; the next year from the
fame quantity of ground 1 made 200 bulliels ;
- the third year from an acre 1 made 556 ; those
l three years were very unfavorable for turnips, and
i ro pcrfon or very few in the neighbourhood made
f any but myfelf. - The lalt year I sowed an acre
v and an naif, two thirds of whu.-h wt\s very mean,
e and made 900 bnfliels ; 500 bushels were made
, from half an acre : but this was a remarkable line
1 year for turnip*. The firtt and third years I sow
s cd the 15th of Aug 11 It, the fec«nd year the 23d,
r and the 20th nf Augulf. ,Not fatisfied that
I a foot square was the belt distance for turoips> 1
e t prepared a square in my garden, made it very IV''>
I put in fine tilth, and divided it uito five equal patls,{ r'ch division containing 180 square feet /On the
sth »f August I fqwed one part at a Foot square,
„r, t 1 feet I, and one, 2 feet 2, 3 feet I, and 3 feet
' and 2. On the 23d day of November following
thev were gathered, mea'fured, weighed ftps
rately with great care and exadlnefs ; the refuit of
t,his expciment will be seen by the following
scheme, viz.
Dlftandr" Quantity j Bushels pounds ; Bufhs. Tons
of turn- 01 larm in made in in eacn Ito th: to the
ipsinfeet fqur. feet. \ e-.:i lo- lot. | acre. acre
fTooWq. i»3 5 ( '97 1-3 tsto 21
2& 1 do. 5 3-4 • 22 7 '' 2 'SOU- 2 25
2 & 2 d . 1 1.4 I 1673 4 19
3& t do. .5 I 197 1-2 i2 '° .21
3& 2 d '4 5 .',S 961 7
111 ' | I i avr age lci acre
Total I 900 Jil < 1,61-2 201-2
It is To h- remarked that the rirlt two lots ii«J
verv few mi!Tnl>, but the lot of 3 and 1 was much
iniflirfg, so that 1 am inclined to prefer the 3 and I,
efpec-iaMy as the turnips at that diltance may bi
worked with.a plough.
I pn-ferve mytuinips in th. fiel' by digging a
foot deep, z circle of a diameter fufficient to con
tain any quantity I chotife to put in, from 20 to 40
ot 100 bulhels ; those are covered over with earth at
Jeaft a foot thick and without any other covering ; j
they have been perfectly found and sweet till the
middle of April ; nor do I recollect to have seen
one rotten turnip in the four years I have treated
them in this manner. The turnips, are gathered
with great ease, efpf'Jally those 1 have cultivated ;
they are a very long turnip, growing half in and
halfout of the ground : A hand can pull up 100
bushels per day and tiveak off the tops, whi h ga
thered in this manner keeps them from grit, and
will be-good a fortnight or three" weeks *»<i feed
stock. RICHARD PARKER.
From the Farmer s iVe kiy Museum.
Tun JACOBIN CKEF.D.
1 believe tkere is no God but nature ; no religi
on but revolution (alias regeneration ;) no just go
vernment but anarchy ; anJ no civil liberty where
the guillotine is not erected.
I believe that Robespierre was the great apostle
of liberty, and that he would have emancipated the
whole world from the (hackles of laws, had not death
cut fhon his glorious career.
I believe Genet is a prodigy of wisdom, and that
his ipfedizit is better authority than Montesquieu,
Puffendotf, and Vattel, those muily, antiquated a- 1
rillocrats.
I believe that war is better than peace, confufi
on than order, terror than mildness, and the guil
lotine than all the courts of juttice extant, /
I believe that the United States of America
ought to be under the direction of my brothers in
France, and that George Wafl)ington, commonly
called President- Washington, is an impertinent jack
anapes for counteracting our r.oble design.
I believe ihe tetroiirts were a band of cor.fum
jnate statesmen, genuine patriots, grea't benefa&ors
aild virtuous rcprefentatives.
1 believe that no person who dissents from our fra
ternity, ought to be peinrtted tofpeak, write, or
-commiinicatc his f.-ntimenis.
F"R O P Cf'S A _L S. ~
By J. TURNER & A. B ,o'ANjun.
For Publishing by Subscription, ,
LETTERS TO TOUNG WOMEN,
married and single,
By Mrs. GRIFF 1 T H.
" Beauty in vai 1 her sparkling eyes may roll :
" Ch.irmsftrike the fight—t-ut Merit wins the foul."
CON I'EN i'B —Of religious duties—Fortitude Char
ity— iffeiflion due to an hufband—Refignition, ai.dtrufl
in God—The importance of thoie accomplifliments most
agreeable to the husband ; and on retirement, dil%ation,
&c —-Economy—Uomcftic. amufcmcnts, music, &c.—
Public diversions, cards, and dress—Complacency ; Pa
tience— Secrete—Servants, &c. importance'of ear
ly cultivating the minds of child*, md of giving them,
the earlie.l id as ot truth and benevolence. Their early
inltrudtion in the beauties ofnatnre.and in humility,coni
p..Cion, induury, &c. The propriety of inltillin? 'earlv
ideas of religion m .*>- v i -Wv .-
U se of money to them—The ufc of wri
ting early reconjmended for children; thoughts on vari
ous duties tney should acquire, as contentment, &c —
Fnoughts 01) their negmve education, and their turn for
imitation On the acquirements of girls in the knowledge
o. music, ncedlt-work, drawing, dancing, & c . rhou.ehts
en the education ot the heart, in preference to the fh»wv
accoinpliihincnts. '
To which will be annexed,
1 be Vijion of Female Excellence.
CONDITIONS.
This work to>ecomprifed in two handsome duo'
iecimo volumes of 250 pages each, neatly bound and
lettered.
The price to fubferibers will be One Dollar per vol.
to bep ;:d On delivery.
As l. on as 500 fubferibers are pbtained, the work
will be uut to press.
Sulif. ■. iliers' names to be affixed;
ON disutility of this work the publishers deem it
uniK'ce.'.arv to defcant.—lll the refinement of the fe
male mind Mrs. Griffith's Letters have been eminently
fuccefshil; and the general estimation in which they
have been held by the vers of ■ intelleclual improve
ment (uiebeft_ criterion of their merit > will, they hope,
pihtre to their proposals a welcome reception from
Hie "fair daughters of America."
" Delightful taflc 1 t» rear the.tender thought,
To teach the young idea ow to ihoot,
To pour the frefli inftrutSion o'er the mind,
To breathe th'enlivening spirit, and to fix ,
The generous pitrpofe in the glowing breast."
-Subscriptions recei ed by the publishers, at the office *
ot the Philadelphia Minerva, No. 214 Market-ftrecet.
Tulv 6 wf&m :
TAKE i\ O T ICE,
application «411 IS made for the renewal of
tlieip>low,ii)g certificates, ifTuedby Joseph Nourfe,
Regilier bf. tlie Treasury, in the name of Roger Grii
wold, Esq. of Norwich, Conncilicut—•
1 certificate, fix per cent domeilic llock, No. 13,907 ;
—dated the 17th December, 1795, bearing interest from 1
tke.fWt.day of January, 17.91, for 1,597 65-100 dol
-1 ditto, three per cent, domestic stock, No. r0,68V
dated December 16, 1795, bearing mterefi from the.
firfi dayot January, 1791, for 994 jg-ico doliari.
1 ditto, deferred stock, No. 9,lo6—dated the 17th
December, 17575, bearing interefl from the firft-Janu
ary, 1801, for 79S 83-ioo doHars.
Said certificates are fuppofedv> have been lofi or
flo Vii in this city time in December or Jauua y
I 3 ft.
t JOSEPH THOMAS,
N0.59,
Philadelphia, July 21, 1796. d6w7
PhiLidelbam,
t - *j
THURSDAY EVENING. Jtit-r 2:, 1796. (
. .C/" The price of this.Gazette is eight dollars a '
year. Suhfcribers, wliofe papers are sent per poll
s are charged one dollar yearly in addition for enclo-
. sing and Six month's fubfeription to be 1
paid in advanci. r
Adveitilements will he promptly and coufpicu- 1
- oufly published, at 50 Cents a square for the ti.ft
insertion, and 25 Cent 9 for every continuation. £
Died.] —At Germanttnva on Friday evenivg (
- last, greatly lamented, Dodi. Charles Isknsell [.
* in the 45: !i year of his at;e —tldilt lon of DoCi. 1
- CnikLEs BEI*SELL lately tieceafed.
' On the 17th inlt. were interred in Friends bitry
-1 ing ground the temains of RacheY, Moore, aged
' 82 years, born in Maryland, and the latl furviviug
J Grand Daughter of the refpec\abloi Thomas Lloyd,
an early proprietary governor'of Pennsylvania.— v
3 The most prominent features in her chaiacler were
linceritv, tqua. imity and firmnefs where file believ- •-
3 ed herlelf right, together with a behaviour so utii
formly obliging and affedlionate as engaged the k
' j.efteem of all who knew her, and must long perpet
" uate and endear her memory among her numeious
1 connexions. Towards the close (he repeat- '
' edly exp'.efTed a patient fubmiflion 10 Divine Dif
' pofal, or an humble preference rather to die than
' be longer C9ntinued.
' t
5 ARRIVED AT THIS PORT.
J . DAYS - (
Ship Molly, Frofl Liverpool 64
Sloop Hiram. Ryan , Alexandria 8 c
Peggyj Willis do. 6
Sch'r William and Mary, Ames| Gonaives 75 v
Kitty and Maria, Tinker Jean Rabel 17 '
Mountain Leader, Collins New-Orleans
Arrived at Fort Mifflin.
; Brig Alfred, Stewart New-Qrleans
Sch'r Hope, Jacock do. j
: Sally, Mirrow Jeremie
- Schr. Delight, Pierce, Porto Rico 10 days
, THE SHIP MOUNT VERNON, c
Captured ol® our Capes by the Flying, Fish c
t French privateer, had arrived there. The -Gover- '
f nor would.not permit any proceedings on the part
. of the Captors, before receipt of information from
tke owners.
CLEARER.
Brig Ann< Helm St. Bartholomews i
i Sch'r Kitty, Hufane Vitginia ,
1 Cetfey, Partridge Camden
f Rising Polly, Toler Currituck 1
Harrnony, White do. !
Sch'r Fanny, Ven Trinidad
The (hip Sally, Captain Wicks, from London is (
s fcelow.
A brig and two schooners bound up, were ob
- served from t'.ie fort at 12 o'clock yelterday.
r The rtlip Atalant.a left Liverpool 2 days before
Capt. Shewell failed, bound N. Yoik.
STOCKS. \
Six per Cent. - - .... - 17/5
Three per Cent. ------ . - io/"6
per Cent. ----- , - - 16,,
4' per Cent. - 14/-
, Deferred Six per Cent. - - - - 13/6 to 7
BANK United States, - - - - 24 pr. cent.
Psnnfylvahia, - - - - 29
—— — North \mejica, -' - -45
1 fnfurance Comp. North-AmeAca, 14 .25
1. Pcnnfylvania, 9*oiopcrcen
, Exchange, at 60 days, - - 165101662-3
The following ajjeftlonale notes letjueen Dr. Docld
1 and Dr. Johnjan, are related by Mr. Boftuiil.
[ All application for royal mercy having failed,
r Dr. Dodd prepared himfeiFfor death, and with a 1
VMrmrh.of gratitude wrote to |Dr. Johnson as sol- 1
- lows—
yttne 25, Midnight.
Acc»pt, thou great and heart, my ear- ) j
. nest <md fervent thanks and prayers for all thy be- !
s nevolent efforts in my behalf.—Oh ! Dr. Johnson ! |
as I fought your knowledge at an early hour in life, ,
would to heaxeii I ha'i cultivatecfTFie lovc and ac
quaintance of so excellent a man!—l pray God
most sincerely to bless you with the highelt trai-if- !
k ports the in-felt fatisfadfion of humai e and bene- ,
i volint exertions !_And admitted, as I trust I shall
be, to the realms of blifg before you, I shall hail
!. your arrival there transport, to ac- 1
knowledge that you was my eomforter, my advo- }
c cate, and my friend !—God be ever with you."
Dr. Johnson lastly wrote to Dr. Dodd this so- '
t lemn and soothing letter.
" T0 the Rev. Dr. Dodd. j'
p " Dear Sir, ; '
y " 1 hat which is appointed to all men js nmv j'
come-oil you. Outward cireumftances,' the * eyes 1 i
> and thoughts of rfien, are below the notiee of an
immortal being about to stand the for eternity '
befoie the Supreme Judge of Heaven and Earth. !
Be comforted : your crime, morality or religion 1
considered, has no very deep die of turpitude ; it
corrupted 110 man's principles ; it attacked no '
man's life ; it involved only a temporary and repa
' Table injury Of this, and of all other fins, y.ou '
,ai e earnestly to repent, ailch-may God, know
eth our frailty, and defireth not our death, accept '
your repentance, for the fake of his Son lefus
Chiift our Lord !
' "In requital of those well intended offices which 1
yon are pleased so emphatieaily to acknowledge, W t ; '
. me beg that you make iii your devotions bne' peti I 1
l lion lor my eternal welfare." " r
—■ 1
T3Y THIS MAILS.
NEW-YORK, July 19. .• f
t < COMMUNICATION.
We arc informed from good authority that in 1
ihe moqth of June part, 219 boats parted the Cat 1
nal and Locks at the Little Falls, on the Mohawk >
River, from which toll was received to the arholint, \
of 1. 173 o. 2. - (
, , b
:
• ■ \ . "■ > .
NORFOLK, July 14. n
YeftaJay arrive;! the fclutouer Nancy, Captain fe
Palmer, ij from Port su Prince, 'paired t>
Cape Niciiola Mole on (he 29th, at which they fc
faiv a fleet of 30 tranfporis under convoy of two
74*5,350, and a frigate, (leering towards Port an, !a
Piince, supposed destined for the attack of Leo- c;
ganc. A re-inforcement of 30d5 men, under com ei
mand of Gen. White, arrived at the Mole on the 11
15 th June, from Barbadoes. V>
Lett at Port *u Prince- the Hoop Polly Ga.pt. f<
; H-.l!, of and 'oounu to Ultimo re, to fail with the 11
frrft convoy. ~
July 3d, in lat, 26, long- 74, 50, spoke the g
;] -op Thomas and Sally, from Alexandria to New rr
Providence. *j . f|
"— ' u
Ship News.
PORT OF BALTIMORE—JuIy 18 V
ARRIVED. 1
Sch'r Mufquito, Harfhaw Jeremie ''
Nancy, Smithwick — L'Anceveari <'
Sloop Fair American, Jones Antigua a
CLEARED. n
SehV Thetis, Libciuite, C'N. Mole o
Polly, Botner VV. si
Capt. J.:nes in Lit. 25, long. 68, 30, spoke the cc
brig Dispatch, Capt. Donaldlon, bound to Fort (1
Dauphi"—out 8 days.
Lat. 24, long, 68, spoke the fchonner Regula- ti
tor, from Baltimore, bound toHifpaniola—lo days tl
out. r;
On Tiiurfday lad, off the capes, dillant 4 leagues rc
was boarded by the Britifli frigate The is, Capt. p
Cochran, and treated politely. Tfie Thetis had vj
boarded, the fame day, the brig Friendship, Capt. ti
Smith, of Newbiify-port, bound to Baltimore, cl
which (he sent to Halifax, upon suspicion ofFre ch p
property being on board. p
h
ALEXANDRIA, July 16.' p
Ihe Pptomack Chief, Chunn, arrived yesterday 1
from Havre—long passage. A foil of Mr. John v
Matide?ille, in this town, who had taken pafTage in tl
this vessel from France, where he had been for tht fj
completion of his education, was unfortunately it
drowned. He was an amiable very promising w
young man. ti
I'ne (liip Meurrt Vernon, Capt failed a
from hence on Thursday for London.
The communications, lately republifhed from n
the Gazette of the United States, explaining the 0
motives ot Franccfor seizing our veflels bound to v
Euglifh ports, whether a genuine letter from a e
French officer or riot has doubtless Hated the trur t
*g round of the buiinefs—viz. That ths Fiench finan i,
ccs aie deranged, lo that they cannot pay for sup
plies, and they do not expect Americans will any
longer trull them—that they Intend to revenge o:j
our merchants whoweie friendly to the treaty with
Great Britain—and that they wish to verify th [
predictions of oar democrats, who have foretold e
vits from that treaty. All these roafons are very ge '
serous, r.oble and dignified ; well worthy of the great \
i. idsol republicans audailies. But if the Frencl.
fuppofc the-people of America will oblige the go 1
vei'nmeiit to be pafiive nndcr any and all kinds of
injuries from Fianae, and that in cafe of a rupture,
ti . y put on the tri-«,)louiedeQ. kade, they mil
ialio thii temper of the people moll cgregioufly,—
A rupture with any nati.-m cairno't happen throng)
the fault of our nation or government. If it hap
pe.us at all, it wi'l be thro«£}v-H-he ddtgn- of afo 1
I"eijiit nation ; a'nd whether t ; :e ration is French,
Bi Iti ill, or Algeritx, thtf Americans will refill the
aggrellor. k France fliould be the aggrelTor, France •
will find the American foes j except the demo
crats, who, like the torics in the late revolution,
would, Spaniel like, kiss the tod. These, how.
ver, are not half so numerous now, as the lories
were in 1775, arid would be glad to secure their
persons and eft.ites by ra»>deft lilence.
The Americans have sense enopgh to fee the so!-
ly of Inking themselves with the politics of any fo
reign iati->n whatever. Their wiftt s have univer
sally teen in, favour of the French revolution, so
far as ts object yvjs to destroy tyranny arid reform
abuses. Bat in nothing do the Freoch make a grea
ter niftake than in supposing the Americans will
submit their government to French influence. They
will submit to no 'influence: but that of their own
clear national interest. If we must quairel, it will
b4 to defend our country ; no matter who the aflai
lant is, a monarch or a republic.
The Americans with to preserve peace-*— they,
with this view, have borne the loss of much pro. j
perty from the Britifli—*ftiueh from the Fiench ! <
and lome trom th« Algerines. They submit to '
violations of fight loss, of property, and many inju
, lies, from tlie Britifli, the French, and Algerines,
; not becaufc jhey love or sear/those uations, but be
! caufc, to submit and to nsgociate are less evils than
an open rupture, and there is no o:her alternative.
] The I rench ttjlk of a coalition between Pitt and
Washington ! insulting language is this ?
And are not th'% Fiench in coalition with the ty
rants of Prufli;:, Spain, Constantinople, and even
! A 1 , iers ? Is it love or refpetSl that unites Fiance and I
Pruflia ? No, it is injeVcft. Jult so, is it "interest
that unites •' Pitt and Wafhington"—lt is interest
that unites all natipns. Yes, Frenchmen, it is in
terest alone that has united France and America :
and be on your'guard, that you do not make it our
interest to dilfalvethe connexion. ,
NHW LONDON. July 14.
Captain P. Benjamin, ot the brig Nlncy, of Norwich, had
his velTel and carxoeondemhed ar Grenada, on the 2d June
| last, as American ; cargo valued at s o,ceo dollars;
! expences' 3,50 dollars ; but as cap:. Benjamin was from De'- '
! mara, and had been supplying tHe. Diltch, they rrriide him '
pay 700 dollars. Capt. Benjamin loft his mate and all his 1
people with the putrid fever, while he lay at Grenada.
j
From the Farmer" Mufeitm.
T H MORALIST.
IT has been remarked, that men are generally
: kind in proportion as they are happy ; and it is
laid, even of the devil, that he is good humoured
when he is plesfcd. Every aft, therefore, by
which another is injured, from whatever motive, 1
contrasts mote guilr, and exprefies greater maliij
i- " *-» " " ■
nity, if it is eotamiued in •We f?afocs wh : K are
let apart to picsifintry ar.d gt d fcumo.il>> *■ J
brightened with enjoyments pecuniaft' imu: 5
foc-iaj beings. \ "
Detraction is among vices vvl.ic'- site rr \
. Janprnid virtue has fufficient-io. :e to prevent ; Se
(ca"vfe by f!eti:it'on tin''is :r>t ;c?.ined which is tak
en away. "He who filches from me my ijooil
mrae," fays Siinkcf# are, " enriches not hinrfelf
Vuit makes me poor indeed. ' As nothing there
fore .iegrSiles human nature more than de'Ya&fiin,
nothing njpre eonyei fatian. The d?ltail
or, as hi* is the loivell moral cliarafter, reflect?
greater difoiamir yp<MiJ)i9 til in thehanjr
man; and.he v.h..io is-a feandaS to hii
fpeeies, fliijH.ih! ! e.r.virj d»K_ entjy avoided, than he
wiio is -1H.1.'1. 1 . H»y hil oIFI'H ':',
Bin ft i.!m prafti.ee,; Ijtfwtver vile, fame have
dared to ap.il-igi-e, by tlie report, V.y
\vliich tFiev iiij ued an abient character*, was true :
fhis tiovve'ver to no irio'e than that they
have not complicated' malice wiih fallhood, and
that there is fomc difference be ween detraction"
and (lander. To relate all that is true i f '.he belt
man in the world, would probably render ht'm the
object of. fnf cion and dtftnift ; and waS this prac*
tice u:iiv£rfsil, mutual confidence and elleem, the
comforts of focfety arid t.h.c endearments of'friend:
(hip would be at an end. *
Phetc is lomething utifpeakably more hile.ful in
those fjiecira of villainy by vvlik'h the law il evaded
than those by which kis violate.! and defiled Cou
rage has lom«tiriitcs nrefcrved rapacity from abhor-. .
rence, is tieuny has beer, thought* to apo'l 'gize for
pro'dituti jii ; but the.ii:juftice of cowardice " uni
veifally abhorred, and like the lewdnefs of def.irmi
ty, lias'no advocate. Thus hateful are the wret
ches who dfrrtft with caution, and while th?y per
petrate the wrong,,are fohci'oils to avoid the rc
proach_- They do nrtt fay, that Chloe forfeited her
honor to Lyfi ider ; but tfiev fay that such a re
port has been fprea<l, they know not how true
l'hofe who propagate these reports, frequently in
vent them ;and it is no breach of charity to fnppofe
this to be always the cafe ; because n?> man who
fptk'iids detraction would have scrupled to produce
it : And he who fitould diHufe poilon in a brook,
would scarce be acquitted of a malicious design,
though he should alledge, that he received it of
another who is doing the' fame elfewiiire.
Whatever ts incompatible with the .higheft'dig
nity .of our nature, (liould indeed be excluded from
our conversation : As compiHiiouß, not only that
which we owe to ourfclves but to others, is requir-'
ed of us ; and they "who can indulge any vice in
the prt fence of 'each other, are become obdurate
in guilt, and infcnlible to infamy.
.i I■■ 111 II .I 1 U 11 mnffiiKSS"''
POETRY.
CIVILIZED iv. Mi! '
[From s Art of War. 2d'Edit.]
C.VILIZ'D war!— How flrangely pair'd appear
Ihefc woiris in pensive Rumination's ear ! '
Civiliz'd war !—Sa ~ did the mouth of man,
FantafUc ma.-iier i f before,
• wo (o unmatch'd, so much each other's hate,
With forte tyrannic, ere together yoke ?
p ivi ixM war! -THANKS gentle Europe ! thanks,
For having drels'd the hideous nmnftu out,
And hid his nature in fv> foft a name,
That weak, nyllerical Humanity,
■v]i »ht hfar 'Vith less horror, he is loose.
Jail monlter clipt ! fhofneol his (baggy *m?r»e,
His horrid front, with flow*rsand ribband prank'df
mootn, playfuJ m n.ftei ! Mixing wi h the roar
Or !ortit-ra>;e the city'* poltfh'd smile!
hat with a mild arid ch"iliian calmnefi kills,
hat with itirfre method tcais his mangled prey,
ni, a, the copious oi-blood he fv^ills,
the thii tt the v/hiie! ThaAks, thoufand*fold,
Ye adorners of the tragy: scene 1
1 fianks. in the name of all the fritnds of man,
i hat ye havethus their appeas'd ;
And, piteous of thtur tender tex ure, giv'n
S heir fp.irits, apt t» ft«rtle,/:alm to flow;,
r Fen;, itsfcabbard when your wild'tm callj
i he flam 'ling sword, and bids its sabbath close!
I hanks in the name of all the tremulous tribe,
i oo lenfuive, the grateful Muse accords you ;
I hat ye have beautified the frowt s 4>f war
An given Ir.s grimhefs graces, have found out
Poliier (ltughier, and genteely Ifearn'd »
3 To iay more elegantly wafle the world :
a That ye nave murder humaniz'd, difcover'd
Milchiet's moil han foine modes) and taught mankind
i. Wiih form and fairefl order to destroy !
Ol aL, whole hearts your battles have bereav'd,
y rhe biefling comes upon y'ou ! Robb'd bv wars
u So gently wag d, of them beneath whose Ihade
[J c '*- ting power their Ihielded weakness fat,
, j Wuh looks of peace and love, pale widows fin£>
j g ratc ' f°ngs, the tend'er fpoilcis sing !
I 1 i'c fatherlefs thtir filial lorrows wipe,
, * forget their woes and join the just acclaim!
| the lorn 1 virgin, in rtie flaiu's long lift
' Wnofe eye fell fearful on her lover's name, • )
— | O et whose wan cheek, where beauty's roses grew, i
0 Giicf tpreads its gteen, prophetic of her grave,
iiomeSickly 1 miles of gratitude shall wear,
And hush jome sighs, to lwell the grateful song !
'> All, all the mourners that ye mak: fliall bids
Your mildly, amiably murderous deeds !
l*or much it sooths the furrows of their foul,
tor much it balms the bt uifes of their breast,
That they, in whom the battle's fury reach'd
a Their rent affcdWs, fell in polilh'd fields ;
? By foftcr hands, than whom the hatchet hacks •
in barb'rous battle; that a ftnoother death
trom finer points and gto flier arms they took;
And if they periih'd, periih'd by the {word,
□ Ileart-healing thought los fair civility!
— —
University of Pennsylvania,
; July 16, 1796.
""THE Summer Vacation win take place on Monday nekt,
the j8 h inft. and continue for Fo UK week?. — The differ
ent Schools wiihche feve.ral Il'to«s will accordingly r«r
affcinble on Monday, the ljth day of lu-ull.
CO3 By the Faculty, Wm Ror, ers, Scc'v.
1 ! .
On Monday next, 25thinft. (July,)
Will be landed at South ttreet wnart, the cargoes ot Superb,
. W< (f Indiai) and lfabella, from laina.ca and Havaona, con
s fiftin- of
Mokfles in'Hogflieads,
GofFee in hogsheads, barrels & baes.
FCR SALK BY
PETER BLIGHT,
Who has-alfo for sale,
, A quantity of Jamaica GINGEk,
j Pimento & 7 T _
| Cocoa, j n a S s '
And 150 boxes Hambro' WINDOW GLASS, 7 by q. will
k« fold cheap. 9
J u >' 20 diot& uub & 1 jot
1 ft
;»
N*o. 131.
Dijlrift of Pennsylvania : to wit.
irrrmenibned, ifyat on the twentv-fourth dav of June.
> ill • i:c twentieth year of the Independence of the United
St-'Vsof America. f «hn Orrprod, ot the aid Diftrift hjth V
He\». .litre! in his office the title of a book, the right wlwrcet 7
he claims as Proprirtor. in the words! following: to wit :
" short and candid Enqui*v rhto tbe oroofs of thrift'*
iv d'vii\itv; in whic'i Do&<m Prieftljv's opimon concerning j a[
'• Chrill is occafionallv confidrred # In a lettrr to a friend.
fl\ CHARiriH Wharton, D D. aiid Member of the
Philofophieal Society of Philadelphia.
il Whofoevrr denieth the Son the fame hath not the Farh* 0
• *• er. Let that therefore abide in you which ye have heard' * n
*• ltv>m the beginning :if that which ye have heard from the 'P
'• beginning shall remain in you, ye aifo (hall continue :r» es
the 'on and in the father. St-John, iftLpift. c. ii. v. 23. ur
4> of
m conformity to the aft of the Congrefa of the United States ve
inti;i led 44 An aft for the encouragement of learning b fe
cut.fig the copies of Maps, Charts and Books, to the authors eu
«-»d proorierofi ol iuch copies, during the times therein v i
R» imaned." SAMUEL C LDWELL, cc
Cleikof the Dtrt r ift of Pennsylvania.
T"np»o H4WW
.Ah perions having demands
on ANT'TONY ROLAND BUSSIER, are requeued to „
bring in their accounts on or before the firll day of August
r.extf,"9r they will be excluded from a dividend then to
takeyfece. WILI.IAM CH YNCELLOR,")
JONATHAN JONES, £ Auditors
JOSIAH TWAMLEY, J
July 7. 4 eodjt
For the use of Schools.
v Tomkins's Text, Round, and Running•
hand copies.
TUST publiflied» and for file l»y W. Youag, the corner of ci
J Second and Chefftut (UeeU. and j Ornuod, No 41
Chrfnut-ilrrrt. Price of proof imorefllons on fine paper. 1
dollar. Common, 75 rnKs. Executed in a rty]e fupe/ior lf
to any-that have been tormcrly engraved inthfc United Spates,
*nd riot inferior to ary of the kind imported from Europe.
]nne 30. 19 *'^ w th
JOHN PAUL JOiNko. |5
, , TNFORMATION is hereby given, that the late John ti
J ■ Paul Jones was a proprietor of five (amount- (1
t ing to ahOut 5867 icres) in a trail of land purchased by cc
the Ohio ( ompany, in the territory of the United States ct
of America, north-weft of the river Ohib ; and that his lil
heirs, or legal representative, on application to the direc- si!
tars of said company, at Marietta in the territory afore- lh
fold, will receive a deed of the said Ave Ihare«, or rights fe
of land. at
The application maybe made personally or "by an agent, v(
but proper documents mud be produced to prove the
claimant or claimants the legal heirs or representative of b(
the'feid Jones rc
N. b. As it is not known in what country the person | w
orperfons interested reside, it will be an of benevolence J m
in every Printer in America and Europe, who Avail insert fe
this advertisement in his paper. so
In behalf of the dire&ors of the Ohio Company, is
ROFUS PUTNAM. ar
Marietta, May 10,1796 [June 4] 3awsw vi
" * AN EXTENSIVB ASSORTMENT OF
P'
Books and Stationary,
Wholesale and Retail, now opened and for Sale by ; n
WII f LIAM YOUNG. m
Sookfeller, No. Corner of Second and Che/nut-ftreets. th
A MONG which are English, Latin, and Greek «c
. Classics and Dictionaries, Divinity. Law, His- gi
tort, I'ravels, Voyagis, Miscellanies, and themoft lu
esteemed No*els. qi
"WRITING AND POINTING PAPERS, n<
?rom the bell manufacturers in Europe, and from his ma- .
nufadiorj on Brandywine, viz. in
Imperial,plain and wove flat Small folio poll, plain th
S'J r-royal do. do. Ditto giit te
R(,y, l do. do. Bleffom paper assorted ar
* Medium A), do. Transparent folio poll fe
Demy do. do. Superfine and cemmon foolfc.
Glased and hot-preflgd folio Marbled papers. P
and 4to extra largr poll coarse papers.
Thick poll in folio dito do. London brown, afforded
Ditto in 4to. ditto do. Hatters' paper
Folio wove post, lined Stainers' paper
Quarto ditto do. Common brown -r
Ditto gilt do. Patent (hrathing J[
Common size folio post Boanet boards w
Ditto quarto, plain Binders' Boards. a
Folio and quarto pofl, gilt, q
jiljo, a variety of other Stationary Articles, vir.
Wedgwood and gla r s phi'ofophical ink Sands, wellaffort. 'I
ted ; pewter ink chelts of various fixes ; round pewter ink R
{lands; paper, brals, and polifbed leather ink Hinds for the
pocket. Shining 'and and sand boxes, pounce and pounce
boxes, ink aud ink powder. Counting hnufe and pocket pen
knives of the bell quality, ass (kin tablet and memorandum
books. Red and colored wafeis, common fiir, office ditto.
Quilit. from halt a dollar, to three dollars per hundred.
Black lead pencils, mathematical inftrumenti, &c £cc.
All forts and fixes of Bl • nk Books, readv made or made
toonlfr. Bank checks, blank bi'lsof exchange aid notei of 1
hand. eKecuted in copperplate, bi la ol lading, manif Jls J
teamen's articles and journals, icc. &c. w
June 18 tawgw d
This Day is published, ei
By I
BENJAMIN DA VIES, No. 68 High-Jtreet, ai
And „
WILLIAM COBBETT, Second-Jlrett, opfojtte Ckrijl's
Cbureb, a
The Second Edition of r
Porcupine's Bloody Buoy,
With additional Notes aad a copious Appendix.
July ii »*w4t
~ The PANORAMA,
IN High-street, exhibiting j view of the citiea of Lon- (
don a:id Wcftmmfter, will positively close on Tuesday
evening, the 19th inilant, and will not be cxhbited in f
Philadelphia "gain.
Philip Nicklin & Co. !
HArE FOR SALE, |
-$onehoig '
Ilyfon Skin )
Young Hyson > TRESH TEAS
Hyson and \ .
Imperial J |
YeUowNankeens
China Ware, assorted inCox s and Chefta
•Qnicklilver .
BoiuUnoo Handkerchiefs of excellent quality In
cV.efta
London Market , } MACjt RA WINlv
London particular >in pipes, ho,(heads, ft
New-Yurk Market ) quarter calks
Teneriffe Wine in pipe* and hoglicadf
Sugar Candy by the Box
Sail Canvas No. 1 a 8
Lead in sheets
.3 Caflcs of Cutlery afTorted
A few chests of Mancheder Goods, assorted
fcts. Cords, striped Nankecna, &e.
3 Small packages of black fewing-filka
8 Tierces Virginia Snake-foot.
Nails affoi ted in caflts '
July »8 ' nwflf
FOR SALE,
K very Valuable filiate, 4
CXLLED TIVirrENHAM, fituaje in the
township of and county of rfplaw irc» I
7 l h l miles from Phriad Iphia, ahd half a mile from the pj
new Weft rcad containing 130 aef' sOl excellent Hind,
45 of whicJ) are good watered meadow, 0-C of prime wood
land, and the reft arable of thd (Irll quality. There arc r J£ j
on thepremifesagood two story brick house, with 4 rooms
on a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a pump-well fu
of excellent water in front; a large frame barn, liabl s, rc
and other convenient buildings ; a smoke-house and Itone
fpring-houfc ; two good apple orchards, and one of peach- —
es. The fields are all in clover, except those immediately
under tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advantage
of water in each of them, which renders it peculiarly con- r
venient for.grazing.
"she situation is pleasant and healthy, ajid from the high p (
cultivation of the land, the good neighbourhood, and the q
vHnity to the city, it is very fuitablc for a gentleman s
country feat. p<
The foregoing is part of the of Jacob Harman, m
ttcceafed, and offered for fa'e bv th
Mordecai Lewis, ti-
OtS. t). eo.~] Surviving F.xffi'or. ol
PROPOSAL a, .
By BIOREN W MADAN, k .
For publishing by Subscription, that celebrated
Godwin's Political Juitice.
From the last London Edition.
T F. R M S. t J.
!. It will be publilhed in two large volumes, duodecimo.
H. Price to Subscribers, two dollars, handsomely bound,
to be paid un delivery of the work, a ,
111. As soon as a number of Subscribers appear, fulH-
cient to defray the expence, it shall be put to press.
IV The names of the Subscribers shall be prefixed.
Th following Chara&er of this work c<
is extracted from t : ie Monthly Review, p 311, 31a, for
March, 1793 tj
" Wehavenofmall degree of in announcing
the present work to our readers ; as one wh ch from the
freedom of itsenquiry, the grandeur of its views, and the
fortitude of its principle, is eminently defe.rving of atten
tion. By this eulogium, we would by 1.0 means be undtr
flood to fubferibe to all the principles which these volumes
contain. Knowledge is not yet arrived at that degree of T
certainty which is requisite, for any two men to think a- 1
like oh ail Fubjefts ; neither has language attained that con
fident accuracy, which can enable "them to convey their w
thoughts, even v hen they do think alike, in a manner per- ur
correct and intelligible to both. These difficulties
are only to be overcome by a patient, inceflant, and bene
volent invefligatiwn.
" Many of the opinions which this work contains, are
bold ; some of them are novel; andfomedoubtlefsare er
roneous :—b<ut that which ought to endear it even to those
1 whose principles it may offend, is the strength of argu
| ment adduced in it to prove, that peace and order most ef
j feftually promote the happiness after which political re
formers are panting ; —that as the prqgreft of knowledge
is gradual, political reform ought n«t to be precipitate ; —
and that convulsive violence is dangerous not only to indi
viduals (for that r fult comparatively would be of small
account) but to the genera! cause of truth. It is the op-,
pofiteof this principle that inspires the enemiasof politic
al enquiry with so much terror : it is the supposition that
change mufl inevitably be attended by the turbulence and
injuflice of commotion; and that innovation cannot be
made without the interv n ion of eVils more deftruCtivc
than those which are intended to be reformed. Under the
convi«stion of this philanthropic fentimcnt, of calm and
gradual reform (which in its proper place he has fully il
lustrated) Mr. Godwin proceeds without scruple firft to en
quire into present evil, through itseflential branches, and
next to demonstrate future good.
" dividing his Work into eight books, and making THE
IMPORTANCE OF POLITICAL INSTITUTIONS the fubjeA of
the firft, he begins by an attempt to prove th? omnipo- y
tence of government over the moral habits of mankind ;
and that on these moral habits their wisdom, virtue and
felicity depend."
Subscriptions received by the puMifhcc* at their ca
Printing Office, back of No. 77 Dock flreet, Philadelphia. yc
June 18 fliweoim an
Asjheton and James Humphreys, ° f
CONVE'YA N C E R S,
HAVE removed their office to No. 61, Walnut-dree!,
next door but two to the corner of Dock-street, .
where all INSTRUMENTS IN WRITING are drawn at ,
a moderate charge, with care, accuracy and dispatch
They likewise hoy and fell Real Estates upon commit*
fions, and procure Money upon Loan on gooJ security.—
The business of an ATTORNEY AT LAW and NO I'A- _
RY PUBLIC is also tranfafied at the said office as usual
hy ASSHETON HUMPHREYS.
N. B. Good Notes discounted.
July 5. et6w
Ten Dollars Reward. .
P 1
Ran away,
JUNE ild, from Brian M'Laughlin, living at Fenry ' n
Clymer's place at Schuylkill point, a Young Wonan, m
who passes by the nam; of Polly Mohrison, low set,
darkish complexion, small grey eyes, about seventeen or
eighteen years of age, had on a dark colored (hort gown, J'
ar.d linfey petticoat She stole and carried away a trunk
and a conlidrrable sum of money, and ; great many other
articles. Left behind her a cloak of coating lined with
green baize, which is supposed to be stolen. The owner,
by proving property may have it. Whoever lodges her in
any goal, so that fh ■ may be brought to prosecution, shall
receive Ten Dollars Reward.
June 28 3aw3 * BRIAN M'LAUGHLIN. o
Law Book-Store, c
No. 313, High Street. *-
GEORGE DAVIS begs to inform his profefiional 0
friends, that per the Ceresjult arrived from Lon
! don, he has received the following fcarceand Talualile
books. State Trials, 11 vol. in 6 ai>l 11 vol. Kuff
head's Statutes at large, 16 vol. Woods' Institutes, \
Coke's Entries, Rafteli's do. Browne's do. Hearhes c
pleader, Coke's id, 3d, and 4th Institutes, 2 vol. Roll's t
Abridgment, Brooke's do. Bulftrode's Reports, oil's
do 2 vol. in 1, Floyers Proflor's praflice, Clarke's
Adminlty, Rutherford's Institutes, Deinology, or the
Eloquence and Logic of the Bar. These with his very
large cpl'edUon from Dublii- now on hand, will enable
him to supply an entire library or a single book, as s
gentlemen may have occalien on thc:r immediate apt
pUea'ion. (
July 14* l\v»w a
The Public are refpeftfully i
in r ormed, that a l business in the line of a BROKER con- !
tinues to be tranfa&edat the office of the subscriber. No.
2.14, Market-ftrcet, next door to the land-office, whs re- '
turns his thanks for the patronage he has already been fa
vored with.
Lands, kc. for fsle, is various parts of the United
States—Particulars of which may be fee* on application.
CcrrttS numerical books will be ke«<t of the Wafliing
■ ton and Canal Lotteries, No. », and Information given
where tickets may be had
Money procured on good notes at the (Kartell notice.
MICHAEL GILL.
N. B. A complete afiortment of Patent BOLTING
CLOTHS, American nunufadure. July S. faswiw
To tse Sold,
At XV I*B, North Secatii-StrteU avl by Jt-veretl e)
Atii'hecarifs in this (Jity.
TR WAFERS' of ike right to remove y>.iin» and iuHanvtu
tion< f'rtnn the bttmin b»«!v, as fecurcd t> Dr. .:LISH A
' PER hv oateiv, with inftrtj-ncnts and din-ftions ne
• cefotvfr.r the prafU«e. rhi» mods of ttjc-atmnu ts p. rtteu- _
larly olrfLl 1 in relirving pains io tiie bead face, teeth, orealt,^
- fide, ft-ma.-b. back, rhetirmtifmt, rcc<;.it gouts, "*c
-5 Not«fithftandiog»be utility of litis praftrce. it ts not tve-i
1 fuaned but there sre cases -.n whicn this and every other
, remedy m-iy fometimos fail. T
June .8, uv 1
r War-Office of the United States, p
s May 4'h> I 79 6 - ,in
" following Rules, explanatory of those publifhcd g
I. the 15th February, 1 Joy, are -o be observed by all r j
1 persons entitled to Lauds, in purfu-nce of resolves of
c Corigrefs.
s Every certificate of the acknowledgment of a deed or
power of attorney, either before a notary public or other
magistrate, must, in addition to what is uftial, set forth
that the per'fon making the acknowledgment is known to
the notary ol* other magistrate ; for which purpofc words /
of the following import mud be infertcd in thecerttficate.
" And 1 do moreover certify that the faia A B making
this acknowledgment has been for personally
known to me."
If the notary or other magistrate has reafort to believe
that he is th; person he represents himfelf to be, he wil
also certify t.
Andift!\e proof be made by a
thcymuft swear to some general ftateof theirknowledge ol
!' hun, which matter mull be let forth in the certificate ; aiid .
' the notary public, or other magiflrate before whom t_£ ,
acknowledgment is made, must also set fortn that the wit-
ne s cr witneifes has or h-'vebeen for upwards of
penrnally known t© him. c l
If a juttice 0* the peace is employed, the clcrk of the
court of the corporation or county mud certify that luch •
r person is a justice of the peace ol th.- county or corpora 1
tion as the cafe may be, and that full faith is due to hi*
* a\Ss m such. JAMES M'HENRY,
Secretary of War
e Mnv It. ' i/>nvT»
~ GkORGK UOBSOIV,
f OF.GS leave to inform the Sroce Keepers in Town and
.O Counirv, that he has removed t-OTi M trket-Sireet to ®
N°- 25, south Third-flreet, j
r where he is opening a Large and Elegant Allbrimeut of the t ]
" undermentioned articles—vi 2.
s Superfine London Cloths and Ker ley mere?,
York (hire second Po. Do, P
Eiaftic do. do. * *
' Mix'd and Riue Coatings
Flannrlls, <Scc.
2 Ma cheWer Printed Callicoes, Ii
London Chintz ditto,
Blue and ditto Furnitures,
India ditto,
» Long Clothe, Coflaes, Baftas, Batti<TasConjevrems»
4-4 9-8 5-4 & 6-4 Soofrfine India Book. Mutlios,
4-4 and 9-8 India Book Handkerchiefs,
j 4-4 and 9-8 Scotch ditto,
♦ 4-4 & 6-4 o'atn do Mn(\ins, g
4-4 & 6 4 B-itifh Jaconets, a]
" 6 4,Bii»i(h Checks and Stripes, p
: 4-4 India do.' do do. £•
4-4 ditto Chi Does, Madras Handkerchiefs, See, t|
; A large aflPmment of figurjd and plain Muflihetf,
Quiltings, Dimities, and Striped Nankeens,
2 Fancy Waiilcoatings,
1 Ginizhams of the firft Quality, fubjeft to Drawback,
India Nankeens, T "
Men's White and coloured Silk stockings. la
i May 9 -^iweotf
t For Sale, _ I
f A Valuable Grift and Saw Mill,
IN New Jersey, near the Forks of Little Egg-Harbaur.
I h- Grift Mill u sixty by forty feet, two water wheels
1 and calculated for four run of Ston -s, with screen, fans
and bouiling-cloths, &c. TheSaw-Mill has two faws,&nd
r capable ofcuttingfiveto 6 100 thousand feet of Boards per
■ year. A valuable piece ef Cedar Swamp, within a mile
, and a half of the Mill, and within three quarters of a mile
of a Landing The Lumber, &c. may Ite taken by water f.
from the mill tail. ,
ALfJ rO* SALE,
Several Valuable Trads of Land,
In Pennsylvania, for all of which payment will be receiv
ed in the notes of Messrs Morris and Nicholfon, or in 0
Cash.
For further information apply to the Printer.
-' Ma r '?• _ _ _ law a '
I JOSEPH COOKE, '!
GOLDSMITH ts* JEW£U_ek_ J
The corner of Market and Thi d-flreet», Philadelphia; S;
■ TV/TOST refpetftfully informs his friends and the public,
lVi. that he has received, per the last arrivals, a com- \
pletc and general alfortment of almost
Every Article in his Line;
j Immediately from the manufactures of London, Bir- \
, mingham, and ShelHeld, ali_jjf which are of the newefl
, falliiun, and «-iH Uc f»kl, wholeftlc and retail, on the .ow- ti
t eft terms, and the Notes of Mr. Ro crt Morris, and Mr. in
, JohnNicholfon received in payment at their current value, jto
k N. B. The upper part of the House in which he now
r lives to be let, furnilhed or unfnrnifhed. law 0
Lottery and Broker's Office, h
n _ N" 64 South Second flreet,
II r'ICKF.TS in the Canal Lottery No. 11, are now rea-
L dvjtor sale, a Check Book kept for the eximination '
of Tickets, and Prizes paid, without deduction.
- The Subfcnber solicits the application of the Public or '
any ol his friends who wi(h to purch fe or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exclunge, or Notes, Houses, Lands, «
Lotts or M"rchandize of any kind. Or to obtain Money „
a j on deposit of property. .
WILLIAM BLACKBURN, -
le Late 4gent for the Canal Lottery Company.
. ,trp*r Tirkc " in the late Newport Long ,
». Wharf, Hotel a*d Public School Lottery examined ; a C
e« complete lift of all the prizes having been received at -
s this office.
J une *• w&s
" Public Notice is given,
r 5 | O the merchants and others concerned in th« (hipping
* » at State Island, under quarantine, that a Cart will
" »""id«-*ery mo.ning, sundays excepted, from nine to 1
p- ten o clock, at the Health office, No. Walnut-street, to
convey provisions or other r.cfrcfhmcnu te the Hospital
and for the use of the crews.
- It U expeded that the Bags, Baskets, or other packar
es with ftipphes, willbedircaed with 'hi name of the vef
y fel Mid captain they are intended for, to prevent miilakes
, n . at dehvery.
10. , .®y or<l er of the Board of Health for the port of Phil»-
re . delphla, LEVI HOLLINGSWORi'H, Chairman
fa. J u| y S
te< i Iniurance Company of M. A.
•O. Dividend agreed upon by the Direclors, for th
.g- X last fix months, „ One Dollar and One Eighth of a
ren Dollar on each Ibare of itock in this Company; which
will be paid to the Stockholders or their legal r prefenta
tives, at any tune after the 11 ft iaftant
"rier Of the Dire^.r^
Tulvn FBENEZER HAZARD. Scc'k
For Sale,
A|l 7 ew Calks of Fi.-il Quality
INDIGO.
Enquire at No. 71, South Water (tree".
May i tht ftf
GEORGE HUNTER,
I CHEMIST,
No. 114 SoMth Second Street,
HAS for these two years part introduced a near fpccies
of FEIiUVfAN BARIC, called YELLOW,
BARK, which after repeated trials by the principil
Phylicians of this city, is now preferred in all ca.es of
importance that require it, to the belt K#d and Pale
Bark. his 1 powerful Astringent Bitter, tits well oh
the ftomacli, is certain in its oSI-ils, and requires only
half the usual quantity for a dose.
Many of the citizejis of Philadelphia are now ac
quainted with its virtues, the knowledge of whirh
ought to be extended over the Union. He has a larije
imply of the Yellow Bark, and a general afTortment of
Drugs, Colours, Glass, Dye Stufff } ifc.
LIKEWISE,
Salt Petre, Jalap, and Camphor,
By the Quantity. j|
May 19. *i»wjt
FIFTY DOLLARS REWARD.
O AN away from the subscriber living near Church
V Hill, Qn-en »n< County in the State of Maryland'
aT>out the fir t of. January last, a black negro man, named
Sam, about thirty years of age, 5 feet 8 or 9 inches high,
has a crooked finger on one hand, and one leg and spot
smaller than the other, somewhat round-lhouldtred, his
cloathing unknown. Any person who wil. ficure #r
bring said fellow home, fe that 1 may get him again {hall
have the above reward with reasonable charges.
WILLIAM JACOBS.
fune 4- »,a, v ,
Mr. FTi 4 N CI 8,
(Of the New 'Tbeatrt) - ,
TAKES this opportunity of returning thanks to his
frholarsand to the public. Mr. Franeis intends,
\ on his return from Maryland, to open a public aca
demy for dancing,, upon a plan entirely new. iie
flatters hirnfelf that his attention to his pupils h\-
: therto renders any promises of conducting his future
schemes on the m >ft liberal and ftriiiteft terms, of pro
priety, totally unncceflary.
V. Z? rVivntr fMif'on as lifljal.
" Pians ortiw city ot Philadelphia,
Including the Northern Liberties and diftridl t)f
Southwarr J
PuMilhed, and fold by
BENJAMIN DA VIES,
No. 68, High street,
(Price one dollar.)
THIS plan is z6 inche- square, and has been en-'
grived by one of the firft artidsin the city, from a late
an>l accurate survey Purchasers are entitled to a pam
phlet with each plan, giving " Tome account of the
city, its population, trade, government, See.
My '9 _ la & ftf
Choice St. Croix Sugar & Rum,
NOW landing from on board the Brig Willian Pen
nock, Capt. Thomas Halleday from St. Croix and for
iale by
Pr tigers & Co.
July 19. tit w.
'' ' ' ill 111 I ■ —- •,
For Sale,
By Isaac Mof's and Co.
37 Cafks&a half of RICE,
Low for Calh sr a short credit, alf»
585 Salted, prime winter Hides
Enquire at Mr. Sears' Tavern, North Second St.
No. 59. July, 19. *d3t
P R O P O S A L~S
F#R CARRYING tHI
Mails of the United States,
On the following routes, will be teceived J»v ihc Poltmifter '
at Savannah, until the firH day of September next.
1. From Savannah by Saubury to Newport Bridge, fnee a
week
Receive the Mail at Savannah every Saturday bv 9 \ M,ar.
rive at yinbury bv 6 PM, and at \ T wo.rt Bridge on Sun
day by 10 \ M. Retursm ■' ■ ■ ?■ HrinUeon Sun
- ft"ji e '*• '"Ulfrve at Sunbury in the evcuTftgrTm**_
Savannah on Monday by 6 P VI.
2. F-om Newport M ridgcby Darien and Brunfwiek to St.
Marv V once in tnjo weeks.
ive the M4II a» Newport Bridge everV o'Jier Sunday
n<yfr,, in.l arrive at St. Mary's the next \.\ r edf.rffddv by 5 P M»
Returning. Leavr St. Ma v's he neHtday, Tnurfday by 8 \
M, and arrive a Newport Bridtrf? the -next 'vjndav by 10 A \f.
No s e 1. If either nf the routes are alter edbx law, during the con
tinuance of the Contracti.. the Contra dor is to observe such alterations
in carrying the mail. andhn pi\ is to be encre if>d or dirnihifhed, in
, proportion to the hflanct encreaftd or diminished by such alteration
Note 2. lh . ontrhft) €rc to be in operation on (he fir ft day of
Ofloter ne*t, and to continue for four years until the 30 tk Septem
ber, «800, inclufize,
3 ThePo/t Mafler General may alter the times oj arrival
and departure at anx time dtiring the continuance of the Contrails, he
previouflx iiipu ! at ins an adequate compenjation for any extra extenfe
| that may be occasioned thereby
Not'- 4 Fifteen minutes /halt beaf!owed for opening andUojing
the mail at it/' offices where no pjrticula »• time is (puifiea,
N 5 For cvrry four's delax funavailable accidents excefad)
>in arriving after the times preferibed in any contrafl, the contractor
> fbal! forfeit one dollar And if the delay continue un il t*e depart
' ureof iny depending mail u hereby the mails dctimed for such de
pending mail Jhail <oft a trip the contractor /hall forfeit ten doliirs
—4$ be deducted from his pay.
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Port-Maiter General.
General Post Opficf,
r Pniladelo u,». |'tn*» 8- 1706 iaw6w
Urbanna tVjill Seats ,
in Cecil county, Maryland, on the banks a
•J the river Sufquehanv.a, about one mile above tide wa
g jler, and commanding the water of that important river,
II he chmnelconducting the trade of which comes so near ,
0 the Mill ie;;ts as to make it convenient to speak the boats;
0 ind Mills may be so fituatcd as to receive them along their
v, wal's, and by water lifts take in theircargoes.
There is a power fufficient for many and any kind of
r _ ufeful Water Works, and so much may be justly said in
j- commendati ,n of thisScite as would be inconvenient to
;s ! n f ert 1 newspaper publication.
Those who may desire to be canccrned, will probably
s find tl emfclves w ll pleafcd on viewingthe situation.
Leases for any term of years may be obtained on appli
cation to the subscriber, living on thepremifes.
CLEMENT HOLLY DAY.
. April 19. jiwjm
:h
a- PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO,
—No. 119 — -
chesnut-strict.
[Prluc F.jght Dollars per Anovm.}