j ' )
i ®a?ette ./>& ©ntteO States, & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
, _ THURSDAT EVENING, NOVEMBER 3, 1796. [Volume X.
NUMSIR 1290.J . 1 ' ■ l —.
• _ _ — I -n 1 r~r\ 1 f 11
For Freight or Charter to Europe, or
the Weft-Indies.
.■■gag-— > The new Brigantine
FAIR AMERICAN,
Richard Callby, Matter.
"iS incompUat ord.r, and in readiness for receding
a cargo. She is » handy veflel, and ha, pood accom
r-so<lAti«ns for paflengers. Applv to Captain Cai fv,
on bnard said velW, laying the upper fide of the Stall
•House wharf, 3»uthwark, or to
IJaac Harvey, jun.
No. i, So. Water-street.
nth mo. ift.
FOR NORFOLK,
Brigt. Olive Bxanch,
Powers Etheridge, Master.
To foil about the sth November. For freight, &c. apply to
the captain 00 board, at Walnut-street wharf, or to
' Philip Ntcklin & Co.
October 31. d
To be fold by au&ion,
__ At the Merchant's Coffee-Houfe, on 4th
JSkmL- day, the second of next month, at 6o'
clock in the evening,
WM%The Ship WILLIAM PENN,
Philadelphia boilt, of cedar and live-oak; burthen
ahoHt 360 ton,; she is in good order, now ready ti take
in a cargo —This lhip being well known, it is needless
giving a detail of further particulars, as any person in
clining to purehal'e may be informed thereof by enquir
ing of the Captain on board, Jefle and Robert Wain, or
John Field & Son.
The terms of payment will bg approved notes at
t, 4, and 6 months.
loth mo. 19th. dtW
For Charter,
7"j4< Ship Domtnick Terry,
Jacob De Hart, maftet\; an excellent
veflel, of about 3000 barrels hurthen.
'JeJfe & Robert Wain.
September 21. d
For Charter,
® an '" l Barque Beneventura,*
Samuel Stub, master,
ly s ~ x good veflel, of about two
tons burthen. JESSE & ROBERT WALN.
Sept. T7- ' dtf
FOR LONDON,
The capital (hip CERES,
fail Toon:—For freight or pillage
to DAVY, ROBERTS & Co. or
"John Vaughan,
September 10. Frcnt-ftreet.
The Brig M.-iRY,
I-ying at McfTrs. Willing* and Francis's
wharf,hurthen 1000 barrels,built in Philadelphia in 1793
of live oak and red cedar.—She is well found, and may
fee sent to fat at a fmail expencc For terms apply to
Gurney £3° Smith.
Oft. 6. dtf.
Tuft arrived, and will this day be lan
ded from on board the brig FAVORITE at Chefnut
ftreel wharf.
25 Tons befi Russia Clean HEMP,
«6 Tons old Sable flat IRON, i
»oo Coils'beft Ruftia CORDAGE, aborted (izes,
400 Pieces brown lluflia SHEETINGS,
ico Bolts Ruflia DUCK,
94Q Pieces Ravens do.
,0 Half-down feather beds, and
A few piecesafforted DIAPER.
FOR SALS Br
Joseph Anthony and Co.
» The above mentioned BRIG
will { il in * fe<v diy», and tak* freight on
moderate terpis for Boston or Salem, for
which or pafl'age, apply on board or as above
O&'iher it. d
. . — j.-. _ . < —
' for sale,
7 HE SHIP MART,
. SAMUEL PARKER, Master,
*£>jK*£ZS££a&*j~ wo hundred tons burthen. Apply td
JOSEPH ANTHONY, &Co.
If the MARY is not fold in a few days, she will take
freight for Hamburg. Apply is above.
Oflober 31. d
For Boston, Newbury-Port and Ports
mouth, New-Hampftiire,
The Sehooner LUC J",
V Daniel Prowfe, master; will fail in
■ t ' lC CoUr^e 1 wce k» intf take freight
£ on moderate terms, for which, or
- passage, apply on board, or to
Joseph Anthony, & Co.
October 27. j
'
For Freight or Charter,
The ship COMMERCE.
NATHANIEL CURTIS, Master.
Altnofta new vefTel, e i4 tons burthen, and will
be ready to receive a cargo in a few davi For
terms apply on board at Bight's wharf. or to
Joseph Anthony & Co.
For Sale on board the above Vejj'el,
A quantity of excellent COAL.
(S3- Per foils having goods on board, are earnestly request
ed to fend the;r permits. 1
Ofloberu. d , ol
Boarding and Lodging
TWO GfcNTTEMEN may be accornmoda'ed with
BoardiriK and Lodging, in 1 private family and pleasant
part of the chy. Ap"ply to the Printer. Ofi. n. tts
~W ANTED,
As COOK, in a frivVc family, a woman of good eharafler
ar«l who Can be well recommended.
of the Primer.
October 3,. d
jr For SALE or CHARTER,
. -n-_ The Brigantine LIBSRTT,
JEREMIAH MURPHY, Master.
Now lying at Albertfon s wharf—
she is an excellent veflel, will carry a-
1300 barrels flour, is completely
lg found, and ready to receive a cargo. For terms, ap
n- ply at No. 149, South Front-street.
y, Where may be had by the package only,
11- A fma'.l configtimcnt of DRY GOODS, just re
ceived—consisting of,
Clsak, }
Superfine Hairbine, & CAMBLETS.
China 3
_ Crapes,
Corded Poplins,
Sattmet Laftiog, &c.
vlirj a few bales CALCUTTA GOODS, viz.
Guzenihs,
to Baftas,
Collies, )
Tickerys,
Punjim Cloths,
Humhums,
Gurrahs,
Black Taffeties,
th Barhar, )
o* Pullicat, & [ HANDKERCHIEFS.
Bandanna J
T Choppa Roraals,
' Patnj Chintzes, &c. tec.
Likewise a few hhds. prime Mohflcs,
ie A large quantity of bed Rhode-lilaud Cheese,
50 boxes Spermaceti candles, and
n " A few birrels Beef,
r " October 17. *eod 8t
For BRISTOL,
p HI L ADEL P HIA ,
Theodore Bliss, master.
A new {hip, on her second voyage, with the best
accommodations for paflengers, and is intended to fail
with all expedition. For freight or pafTage apply to
the Master on board, or to
Thomas & John Clifford :
Who have just imported in said vefTel, and have for
sale, besides their general aflortinent
_ i»f IRONMONGERY,
A quantity of fine drawn and common sharp and
flat point NAILS j doable & single rell'd Sheet Iron ;
Iron Pots, Kettles, and Iron Weights, of all sizes ;
London and Bristol Pewter in calks, afloi ted ; boxes
, of Tin Plates; cases of Men's, Woman's and Boys'
c Hats j cilates of earthen and flint Glass Ware ; crates
of Phialst; boxes of Window-Glass ; boxes of long
_ and short Pipes ; Copper in Sheets ; Oval Qnart Bot
tles in hampers; also* a few calks of bottled Beer,
and two bales of Superfine Broadcloths and Cafli
meres.
re Oftolser 17. m&th2w
A CAPITAL ASSORTMENT OF
DRY GOODS.
John Miller, jun. 3c Ct).
Extlufive of their own Importation now opening,
H»V**4U ky the woiiam Pcnn. Caroline aud Diah» 1
CONSIGNMENTS,
*s Which comprize a capital alfsrtment to open a
5 Dry Goods Store.
■y —Amongst them art—
Common, super and fuperfine Cloths,
Plain, twill'd and ftrip'd Coatings,
Baizes and Flannels, |
_ Point, rose and duffil Blankets, '
~ Plain and punted Caflimeres,
" Swanfdowns,
it Printed Calicoes,
Scotch Threads,
Hosiery.
They will be fold either in whole, er in pai*t, by the
package, on terms which render them an objetffc worthy of
attention to purahafers. dtf QA. SI.
JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co.
iVb, 8, CHESNUT STREET,
Have Imported in the late ve(Tel« from Europe, &c.
AND HAVE FOR SALE,
A general afTortment of GOODS, suitable to the season—
Amougft which are,
, n T)ROAD and narrow CLOTHS,
, r J-* Plain and twill'd COATINGS,
Rose ftripod and point BLANKETS,
FLANNELS and BAISES, j
HATS aflortfd in cases,
IRISH LINENS,
INDIA GOODS, generally,
A Consigned Invoice of IRONMONGERY,
_ Contprifitlg a capital assortment to open a store—inclu
ding Thirty Caflcs of NAILS. This invoice Will he fold
entire on very advantageous terms.
September 20. d
Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLER, jun. & CO.
Have received per the William Pcnn, in addition to
their own aflorment,
A consignment of twenty trunks of Calicoes, ele
n gant London patterns ; also a few cases of handsome
t iiuttons Which will be fold at a (hort credit, on very
r reasonable tenns, by the package only.
° a ' J 4- ' dtf '
For Sale,
By Jehu Hollingfivorth, & Co. 1
IS hhds. Weft-India Rum, 3d and 4th proof, '
5 Barrels best Indigo, and,
' A few thousand bushels of Turk's Island fak.
1 o<9, d.
Country Rum,
And a few pipes of Vinegar,
For Sale by
. Ezekiel Hall,
■ wje^r of Mr Edw ta s ow' r No -" d Sonth .
Washington Lottery.
, 4
-"" J: I
At No. 63, N. Seventh-street, "
our entlemen may be accommodated with ri
md . <
3
For Sale,
Carolina Rice in whole and half tierces,
Cotton of Cayeßnr and Trinidad,
Soal Leather, en'j'-ljd to drawback,
Boston Beef. anA
Mould »Bd dipt candles.—Apply to
Isaac Harvey, jun.
No. 5, South Watcr-flreet.
Tothmo. I?. dyv.
For Sale,
By J. WARDER, PARKER & Co.
An Invoice of Cordage,
Confiding c*f different fires, from \2 inch cables down
to rope of 7 inches, of different lengths : Imported in
the ship Swift, from Hull, and entitled to drawback.
Sept. 27. dti
Sales of India Goods.
The Cargo as the {hip Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cal
cutta and Bengal,
consisting or '
A Large and general assortment of Bengal and Madras
COTTON and SILK GOODS.
AMONG WHICH ARE
A variety fine worked and plain Mujlins,
Doreas, 13* c. Also,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
!n t>oxe< and bags—and BLACK PEPPER,
For Sale by
Willings Sff Francis,
No. 21 Penn Street.
\ J«ne 8 §
For Sale,
AThree-flory BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut
street, between Front and Second streets, in which
Meflrs. James Calbrairh & Co. have for many years (and
now do) carried on buGnel*.
Pofieflion will be given in one month, or sooner.
for terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or
HECTOR CALBRAITH.
. Aprfl 41. '1 §
70,000 Pieces Nankeens,
Of tie left quality and on reafonciblc terms >
FOR SALE BY
Philip Nicklin & Co.
Augqft iS. dtf
Just Arrived,
By tie Fly, Captain Hubier, front London,
Double racked, Brown Stout Porter,
in hcvjfheade.
Painters' Colours, in t-x and t-4 ewt. kegs, packed in
hogflcads.
Copperasin hoglheads.
Whiting. &c. For Sale by
Peter Blight.
O4ob<r «j. dxttsaw
Th<f Cargo of the Polacre Independent,
CAPTAIN CATHCART, froKh Alicant and Lif
oon, landing at the fiibfcribers wharf—
a 8 Pipes of Brandy
18 Bales of Spanifli wool
A do. of Annifeed
7000 flulhcls ot liefl Lilbon Salt
80 Boxes of Lemons
For fate by WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
ALSO,
Seventy Hoglheads of prime JAMAICA SUGARS,
received by the fbip Oominiek Terry, Capt. Be Hart,
from Kingston.
Sept. 13. d
LANDING,
Out of different •vejfels from England, and for fait
by 'the fubjeribers on reafonablt terms,
Superfine and common cloths, and caffimers
Ribbed and striped do. do.
Blankets , mottled green and fifk rugs.
Superfine bide, Claret, and camcioll coatings,
Kerseys, Bear-skins, plains and Halfthicks,
Serges and Flannels,
Britilh Ingrain Carpeting,
Hats snorted in cases of n doz. each.
Chocolate chintzes, printed Callicocs and Hasdkerchiefs.
Scarlet Cardinals, and Scarlet Snail,
Yarn, WoHlcd, and Cotton hosiery,
Beavers, Thickfetts, Velvets, Corduroys, ttc. tic.
Buff and drab Genoa Cords of a superior quality;
6d. Bd. jod. Ltd. aed. nails,and frying pans,
AnafTortment oflronmongerry, Cutlery and a variety
of India cotton, and (ilk goods.
Thomas & Joshua Fisher,
No. 5, Dotk-fttrcct.
Also by the Glasgow from Dublin, t
1-8 and 4-4 Irish Linens afTortcdSn boxes of 30 pieces,
do. Brown, Glazed Linnen. *
o(ft. 17. dtf.
Imported in the late arrivals from Europe and the
IVeJt-Indies,
Holland Gin, in pipes
Choice St. Crqix Sugar arid Rum
Martinique Molaffys, iri hoglheads
Choice old Lilbon Wine, in pipgs and quarter-eases
London Particular Sc London Market Madeira Wine,
in pipes, half-pipes and quarter-casks
Malmfcy A' de"ira Win*, in pipes and quarter-calks
Teneriffe Wine, in pipes
Russia & Flemish Sheeting 2nd Ravens Dusk* in cases
Window Glals, 8 by 10, in boxes '
Coffee Mills and Straw Knives, is calks
Mill Saws and Cross-cut Saws, in boxes
/Hjo, on hand,
A few chtfts of Bohca Tea ; Jesuits Bark ; A/Tafcs
tid» and Tapioca; and a few bales of Cpflaes,
Baftas, .Gurrahs, Bandanna and Muslin Handker
chiefs, and a complete afiortment of 5-4 and 6-4
Boulting Cloths.
For Sale by
Pragers Ssf Co.
O£lober 20 ' diwm&thjm
GLASS ENGRAVER.
Mrs. Dsscamps, frem Paris.
Informs the Public that ftie has just opened her store,
North Third Street, No. 95, where she engraves with
borders, flowers, garlands, cyphers, figures, escutche
ons, &c. in the mod elegant, fafhior.able, neat, and
new stile, all forts of glafles, and glass wares oa the
most reasonable terms. All order* will be thankfully
received and pun£lua'fy executed.
M. Deframp* executes any thinj In the line a
Glazier.
Nov. m » 3 t.
To be Sold,
AT PUBLIC VENDUE.
On ThurfJay the 6tb day of April next, at i 2 o' flat I,
at Dougherty's tavern, in tit town of H inchrjler r
in Virginia, the following lands, fuuatc in the /aid
Jlate, viz.
No. Acres,
Of excellent lnnd on the waters of Back-cretk, in
Frederick county, »n the great road leading 10 the.
South Branch, about ten miles from Wincbelter, ioq
• acres of which is rich bottom, a fine stream running
through it, with fevoral springs, the trees in the bottom
j are chiefly fegar mapie, black walnut, hickory and !o
, cuft. There is a lop dwelling and out-houfes, (ome
m-adow made, and 40 acrts of upland cleared. On
this trail there is a gcod mill-set, where an under
fhct-mill might be trebled.
No. 2.—800 Acres.
Situate in Hampshire county, on the north branch
" of the Potowmack, and on a branch called Cabbin-run,
about eight mile* from Fort Cumberland. On thi*
trail is a large quantity of rich bottom, fit for meadow
• or the culture of hemp, the upland remarkably good,
being chiefly timbered with walnut and hickory. The
above trail is in two surveys of 400 acres each.
» No. 3 —200 Acres.
Situate in Franklin county, about ten miles from
Winchester. On this trail there is a dwelling house
and part of the laud is cleared, the remainder is finely
timbered.
No. 4. —A Lot of Ground.
In the town of Wuodftock, Shsnandoah county,
whereon is ereiled a two story house, and other im
provements, and a ten acrc lot for the cuuveniency of
said town lot.
t No. 5 —250 Acres.
1 Situate about 'two miles from Woodftock. Part of *
; this trail is in cultivation, is finely timbered, and a good
quantity of meadow may be made.
No. 6.—400 Acres.
Situate in Hamplhife county, on George Andes's mill
run, on a branch of the Cafapchea. This trail is finely
timbered, there is good bottom land, which might be
ealily converted into meadow.
No. 7 —One rtpoiety of 5000 Acres.
Lying an the waters ef Hughes's river, in Harrifoa
county. This was purchased at one quarter of » dol»
lar per acre, cdfh above 8 yet/* ago.
No. 8—41,900 Acres.
Lying in the counties of Wythe, Washington, and
Griyfon (the greater part in Wythe,) on the water*
of Cripple creek and Fox creek, branches of New Ri»
1 ver, and on the sooth fork of Holftein.
No. 9.— 10,000 Acres.
i Lying[in the county of Hardy, on the waters of Great
Cacapion and North River.
The terms of payment will be one third part of the
purclui'e money to be paid in hatid at the time of ex
ecuting the deed or deeds of conveyance, the remaining
two thirds to be paid in equ&l instalments, at 12, 18,
and 14 months thereafter securing those payments by
( mortgaging the preraifes. i.
Should any person wiih to purchase at private sale,
application may b- made to John Holker, Esq. near
Winchester ; David Holmes, F.fq. of Winchester ; or
by letters, {pofl paid,) to the fubferiber in Philadel
phia, being the owner of said lands, who will perfonli
ly attend the sale 011 the day abovemestioned.
George Meade.
Philadelphia, ad of November 1796.
diw w&s 1 MdtA.
} -
To be Sold,
$0,4(50 Acres of Land.
Lying on the river Alleghany, in the county of Nor
, thumberland, in the State of Pennsylvania.
400 Acres Land,
In Bald Eagle townihip, Northumberland county
aforefaid.
60,000 Acre* Land,
Lying en the waters of the Oconee and Canouchee
rivers, in the county of Walhington, in the state o£
Georgia.
174,000 Acrts Land,
Lying en the waters of the Ohopee and Canouchee
rivers, in the county of Montgomery, in the state of
Georgia.
3 1 »°3S Acres Land,
Lying in O.rangeburgh diftrtil, in the state of South
Carolina. And,
146,986 Acres Land,
Lying in Charleston diftriA, in the said state of South
Carolina.
An Half acre Lot of Grond,
In the town of Richmond, Virginia^
, The above Lands will be fold low.—Apply to
George Meade.
Philadelphia, ad November, 1796. diww&stf.
• 1 " * "■ • ——. - . .. . .. .
Caution.
The following NOTES have been STOLEN from
the fubferiber, on the evening of the 31ft ult. allper
( sons are hereby forewarned from receiving the fame.
( One, Robert Morris to John Nicholfon, dated March
3<U *795> and payable April 8, for dollars
823. 93.
And one John Nicholfon to Robert Morris, dated
( and payable as.above, and for the fame sum.
The above notes with other papers were contained in
a Green Morocco covered almanack, and were ftolan
with a quantity of clothing, from the piazM of the fub
feriber. The clothing eonfifted of one drab coloured
greatcoat, 1 do. clof«coat, 1 dark mixture do. 1 olive
mixture do. 1 brown silk morning gown, 1 old black;
silk cloak, 1 child's great coat, coating, i do. cloak.'
cloth.
,A handsome reward will be given for the Pocket
Book and papers, by
James Todd,
No- s6, So. Front Street.
11th mo. 2d. diw.
Just Imported,
In the fchoouer Lucy, Capt. Prows, from Maderia,
and to be fold by
ELLISTON if JOHN PEROT,
Best London particular Madeira Wine
Three years old,
In pipes, hogsheads, and quarter caflts, fit for im
mediate use.—They have also for file,
A few bags of Juniper Berries.
Oilober 28. wfcs 4 wJ lii-: PANTHEON,
And Ricketts's Amphitheatre,
I'ot Equeflrian and Stage performances, Corner of
Chelnut and Sixth streets.
THIS EVENING, ThurfUay, Novembers,
Will be presented,
A Great
Variety of Equestrian Exercises,
'By Mr. Ricketts, Mr. F. llicketts, Master Hutchins,
and Mr. Sully as Clown.
To which will be added, a Comic Ballet Dance, un
der the direilion of Mr. Durang, called
The Two Huntsmen ;
Or, The Death of the Bear.
'GiHot, Mr. During
Col«, Mr. Jjully
Lawyer, Mr v Coffie
Country Girl, Mrs. Tompkins ►
Milk Girl, Mrs. Durang:
To conclude with a PAS DES TROI.
For the last time this season,
The Sports of Newmarket.;
Or, The Poney Races.
The whole to conclude (for this night only) with the
favorite Pantomime of
The Valiant Soldier ; \
Or, The Thieves. •
Captain of the Banditti, Mr.
Thief, Mr. Coffie
Clown, Mr. F. Ricketts
Lord of the Manor, Mr, Tompkins
Valiant SoMier, Mr. Sully
Collete, Mrs. Tompkins
Milk-Maid, Mrs. Durang.
' Country Lads & Liflfes by the reft of th« company.
In the conrfe of the Pantomime,
A FIGHT WITH BROAD SWORDS,
By MrSully, th/ Valiant Soldier,
And Mn Spinacuta, Captain of the Banditti.
The Pantomime to conclude with a Dance.
For the Gaxrtte of the Unitbb States. '
. 0: • J
PHQCION—No. XV. |
IN the preceding numbers i r . has been faticfafto- I
rily shewn, that Mr. Jefferfon, while Secretary of j
State, countenanced the intrigues of Genet, till i
they had proceeded to such lengths as to rouse the t
people_ to support the President, and to csmpel the
secretary to unite with the reft of the adminiftrati- i
on in demanding his recall. I
This has been substantiated by various corrobora- t
ting circumstances, and direst proofs. S.' (
Ift By the publications in the National Ga- c
■ette, by a clerk of Mr. feffetfon, reprobating the i
President's conduct, and exhorting Genet to perse- \
'■vere in llis opposition, far months after Mr. JefFer- ~ e
son knew that Genet was refiftiog the government.
2d By the which prevented the re- .
call of Genet, from the time of his firft open aft j
against the government, till the 16th August, and r
which could only have arisen from Mr. Jefferfon's
opposition in the cabinet to that measure. r
3d. His advice to eonvoke congress, a measure a
urgently demanded by Genet, and bis opposition to m
the iffuiig the proclamation of neutrality. {
4th. The writings of Htbidius again II that pro- p
clamation, composed by a confidential friend of his, /,
and qu"ted by Genet, as authority on his fide. , 1;
sth. Genet's charging him Vvith defeSion, after }
having profefled to be his friend, and initiated him r
into myjleries, which had inflamed his hatred against r
, the government, and aecufing him of having two si
languages, one confidential the other official. 0
6thl His being an enthujiafik admirer of the Cl
-I"reneh cause. 0
7th. His beirfg recommended and pointed out by f (
Cit.zcn Fauchet, in his intercepted letter, as the tl
man wham the Patriots had fixed on as President, i (
{hewing that Jefferfon was considered by Fauchet, _
as a friend to Genet's intrigues, notwithstanding ct
his official letter! r ,
We shall new proceed to notice some other fea
tures of Mr. Jeffcifon's violent aversion to the roea-
Alresof the federal government, which will still fur
ther prove his participation in the views of the Na- ?'
tional Gazette. iti
The friends and advocates of Mr. Jefferfon have
made no scruple to boafl of his abhorrence of the
leading principles of the adminifl ration of the finances
of the United States ; and the National Gazette, one rt
■Vis the maiii objeAs of which was te abuse that ad- m
mimftiation, in confornsity to that abhorrence, went
so far in one of the numbeis, as to urge the rnctjji. ?
~ly of a revolt. 4 n, in order to overthrow the whole
system of public credit. */
. ,Tbe leading principles of our fifcal adminiftrati- C 3
on were, that the public debt ought to be provided
far, in saver of thpfe, who, according to thcexprefs
terms of the cantraft, were the true legal proprie
tors of it ; that it ought to be provided for, inoiher
refpcifts, according to the terms of the contrast, m
except so far as deviations f.om it fho'uld be a/Ten- P c
ted to by the creditors, upon the condition of a fair' &
equivalent, that it oug.ht to be funded upon afcer- P a
tained revenues, pledged for the payment of inte- irr
. #•(!, and the gradual redemption of principal, that ct)
the debts of the feveial Rates ought to be compri-
led in the provision, on the fame terms with that of v "
the United States, that to render this great opera- te
tion practicable, aveid the oppreflion of trade and
indullry. and facilitate loans to the government,' in
cases ot, emergency, it was necessary to inftitut'e a P l,
rational indijefl taxes were in the aflu- co
al citcumftanccs of the oonntry, the most tligihle , aS
rtieapsof revenpe, and that dite<9 taxes ought to be ° c
avoided as much, and'as long as poflible. tu 1
How, I aver from comperent opportunities, of au
know ing Mr. jefferfon's ideas, that he has been tk
cidedly hofiile to all these pofi'ions, except perhaps wc
the last, and thai, even in regard to that, his max- m 8
ims would .oblige the government in practice spec- rel
diiy to tefort to diredl taxes, > a t
1 aver morro-rer, that his opposition to the adrni- wc
niftration of the government has not been confined an<
to the measures conseftcd with the Treasury De- ? r
partnv. Nt, but has cxrended to almost all the impor-
lint mcafuies ft the governmeßt. , M
It Mr. Jed 1 Ton's opposition to the measures
which are scfloeaed with the admi ß iftration cf the the
, national finanrri had ceased, when those measures
had received the f»nsion of haw, nothing more
• could have been said, than, that he had trarrfg.ef
fed the rales ef official decorum, in entering the
lifts against the head of another department (be
, tween whom and himfelf, there was a reciprocal
duty ta cultivate harmony) that he had beta culpa
ble in pursuing a line of conduct, which wascaleu
lated to sow the feeds of discord in the executive
branch of the government in the infancy of its e»-
s ' ijlence.
But when his opposition extended beyond that
v point, when it was apparent, that he withed to
render ediout and of course to fubntrl (for in a po
pular government these are eonvertible terms) all
rhofe deliberate and solemn a&s of the legislature,
which had become the pillars of the public credit,
his conriudt deserved to be regarded with a still se
verer eye.
What differences of opinion may have preceded
those exceptionable particular sea-<
turcs in them may have appeared to certain cha
rafters, there is no enlightened nor discreet citizen
but must agref, that they ought when clothed with
the fanftion of the law to remain undijlurbed. To
set afloat the funding system, after she faith as the 1
nation bid been so deliberately and solemnly pledged '
to it—after such numerous and extensive alienations 1
of property for full value had been even made un '
- der its fan&ion—with adequate revenues, little '
burthenfotne to the people—in a time of profound '
peace—with not even the Jhadow of a»y public
* necejjity—on no better graund than that of theorem '
tical and paradoxical dogmas—would have been '
one of the most wanton and flagitious eSs, that c
ever flained the annals of a civilized nation. '
Yet positions tending to that difgiaceful result r
were maintained in public discourses, by individuals, }
known to be devoted to the then secretary of state,
and were privately smiled upon, as profound disco- 1
veries in political science. F
Yet the 1 rf» discreet, though not lead important 1
' parthans of that officer, spake familiarly of undoing '
the funding fyfl-.m, as a meritorious work : Yet bis
gazette ( which may fairly be regarded as the mirror r
of his views) after having labored for months to i 1
make it an object of public deteftstion, told us at 1!
■ length, in plain and triumphant terms, that " the
f funding system had had its day and very clearly,
1 if not expressly, that it was the objeS oj the party
t ta overthrow it*."
e It may be justly then, and from fuffiiient data,
- inferred, that Mr. Jefferfon's politics, wiile secre
tary of date, tend to national disunion, injgnijicance, >•
- disorder and discredit. That the fubverion of the
finding system would have produced mtional dif- a
• credit, proves itfelf. Loss of credit, the -eafon be- b
: ing the fame, mud attend natianj, as wallas indi- C(
• vidualj, who voluntarily and without nec:ffity, vi- 0
- 'date their formal and positive engagements f,
Injignificancc and disorder, as applied tccpmmu- w
- nities, equally with individuals, are the natural off it
t spring of a loss of Credit, premeditately and Wunta- g
1 rily incurred.
» Dlswrnaw would not long lag behind. Sober- r(
minded and virhwus men, in every Rate, wotid lose k
: all confidence in, and all refpeft for a govenment, tl
J which had betrayed so much levity and inainfiftl
ency, It) pref.igate a disregard to the rights of pro- *
• perty, and to the obligations of good faith. Their' a]
. support would of course be so far withdrawa or re- r<
laxed, as to leave it an easy prtfy to its enemies,
rbefe cofnpnze the advicates forieparate canfede- g '
' racies j the zealous partizans of unlimited fove- "
reignty, in the Bate governments— the never to be f
1 latiated lovers of innovation and change— the tribe 1
of pretended philofojLrs, but real fabricators of •
chimeras and paradoxes—the Catalmes and Ceefars
of the community (a defcriptioh of men to be Z
found in every republic) who leading the dance to v
the tane of liberty without law, endeavor te intox.
icaie the people with delicious, but draughts fr
—to render them the eqfier viaims of their rap,- nj
cious ambtian ; the vicious and the fanatical of eve- tl
ry class, who are ever found the willing or the delttd- tl
.— fr
* I find in the Boston Independent Chronicle fan 3f
antifederal paper) of September, 1792, the follow- m
ing publication: a
Mi. jtDJMS, P<
As the friends of civil liberty wifti at all (i mn t0 b3
be acquainted with every question which appears to pr
regard the public weal, a great number oi gentle- o
me.... thu and the .eighfcourMj , o vrn s , hafe sub- th
fenbed for the Gazette, published by Mr. ca
Phthp Frcneau *t Ph.ladelphia: and it is hoped, co
that Frent I.us Gaxctte, which is said to be printed rie
under the eye of that eftablithed patriot and ifpubli- re
can Thomae Jeferfon, will be generally taken i- the
New-England States. ' Q d ;
Ifl the Columbian Centind (of Boston )
lov. ing reply appeared a few days after ft
" A correspondent in the last Chrnni c l f( rrcom . Pr
mends to the people of New-England, a R enerd &
perusal of the National Gazette, said ,0 be pi ted
Sec. Whether this is intended aa 1 >
part of Mr. Jtferfon, that he is the r J," and the ° f
imprudent only the nominal editor of this th:
if' J aZf,tC ' ? hc Pfhc i, at a | oft to tenn „ ™
The advureadapted to ,11 who delight in the most
violent abufc on a government frame/1 „ n ,l >• -r
tered by the people of America to the 1""' dil
dignity, and happiness of America • anH TT' th<
affea t»-o much learning to have an v iTu° set
pleased with the recommendation. The c/' *' 1 "
country vilified, rel'f itn conftanil vt'Tj
oeprive us of all «o«fidenee in /I" 1 ■ T°
tuted and admiuiftered by ourselves ** l
a cvih.ed country for the wilderness, and on wluch
we bU M OUrb Wlh9pcsfor ha
and a future world, mav affnrW ul
Freaeau : but fu.ely T Ad, J * I 3 man likc rh
rj. • , . rr ■ ami ®ught to be well
Mr -Tkr" r ion '' bef ° rC brings f otwa ' d
- • as the patron of s uc h a Gazette/' chs
Mr. Jffferion's friends never Am' j .1
the paragraph in the Chronicle! * trUth if 1
res edfollowers of tliofe _ fe.Kicing and treacherous tend
>rc ers.
rrf- , But this is not all—tlic inva/ion of seventy mil
he liont of property could not be perpetrated without
ie- violent etneujjion's. The dates, wliofe citizens, hoth
- a | as original creditors and purchaftrs own the large*
ia- portion! of the debt (and several_ fuel) there are)
u would not lcnjf reman) bound in the trammels of a
ire party which had so grossly violated their rights. The
*- confluences in experiment would quickly awaken
to a lenfe of injured right, and intered such of
at them, whose rbprefentatives may have wickedly eu
ro barked, or been ignorantlv betrayed into the atro
o- cioui" 1 and deftruflive project.
ill Where would all this end but in- difunien and «-
e narchy—in national disgrace and humiliation ?
" PHOCION.
e " FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE, i
.J IV THE LATE ARRIVALS. I
• 1
j Head Quarters of his Royal Highness the
, n Archduke Charles, Windecken, Sept. 11. i
h My Lord, (
'o «y reports received from General Latour it ap- l
ie pears, that on the ill and 2d inft. Moreau attempt- <
ed with his right wing to make himfe'lf master of c
ls th« bridge on the Yfer at Munich. After a very <'
, ohftinate combat which laftrd the whole of both >
| tf days, he was repulsed by the Frince of Fuftenberg c
J with considerable loss.
• General La Tour in the mean time, having farm- '
, ed a j«n£lion with the corps of General Nauendorff, ?
n attack*! on the id, the left wing of the enemy, and 1
t drove it before him the space of 6 leagues. In the
neighbourhood of Langenbruche, however, the e
t nemy, having received considerable reinforcements, a
posted himfelf so advantageonfly, tfrat General La |
Tour, after fereral fruitlefs attempts to dislodge (-
them, judged it expedient to retire to his original t|
poll behind the Yfer [ having however succeeded in t .
t the object of his operation,-which was t~e weaken t j
the enemy's attack on the Prince of Fuftenberg. 0
' There is as yet no pofirive jnformation that Mo
r reau has began his retreat, although from the late (,
a movements, there is reason to apprehend,, that he r ,
t is making preparations for it. (}
1 have the honor to be, &c. n
(Signed) Robert Anstrwtke*-, n
Captain 3d Guards. w
TREATY of ALLIANCE, fr
' Ojfenjivt and defenfi've between France and Spain. ai
THE Executive Directory of the French repub- tr
j lie, and his Catholic:,Majefty, the king of Spain, a- fe
; nimated by a desire to strengthen tbe ties of friend- o:
fbip-and good under ft a riding happily re-eftab!iftied it
between France and Spain, by the treaty of peace tc
concluded at Basle, on the 4th Thermidor, 3d year e(
of the republic, (z 2d July, 1795) have resolved to
form a treaty of alliance offensive and defeufive, for 'ft
whatever may concern the advantages and the com- te
mon defence of the two nations ; and they have char- tl
• ged with thi6, negotiation, and given their full pow
ers as follow : (Citizen Perignon for the French Di- p(
reflory, and the Prince of Peace for the Spanish in
■ king): wlw after communication and exchange of ar
, their refpeftive full powers, agree on the following ol
. articles th
Article I. There (hall exist, in perpetuity, an cc
. alliance offenfive and ciefcivdvcj between the French t€
. republic and his Catholic Majesty the king of Spain.
11. The two contrasting powers (ball mutually w
guarantee, without any exception or reserve, in the ar
most authentic and absolute manner, all the states, th
. territories, islands, and places which they refpetf ive- re
• ° r A al ' possess; and if eith « of the 'two li<
r mall find ltfelf, in consequence, under whatever pre
text rt m*y be, menaced or attacked, the other pro- be
mifes, engages and obliges itfelf, to aid with its good b
ottces, arid to succour, as (hall be stipulated in'the D
.Oilowing articles.
11l Within the fpacc of tliree months, to reckon
trom the moment of the requisition, the power re
quired fnall have ready, and put in the disposal of
P°* e r requiring, sixteen (hips of the line, of which
ree lhall be of three decks, or of 80 guns, twelve th
trom 7° to 72 , fix frigates of a proportionate force, «i
and four corvettes or light ve(Tels, all equipped, ar- ci;
' an< LP rov 'fioned for fix months, and fitted for ze
a year. This naval force (halt -be assembled by the vil
power required in any onfe of its ports pointed oat ki
} trie power requiring. j-j
IV. In cafe the power requiring should iudote
proper, for the commencement of hostilities, to limit
to a p art the succour which ought to be furnifhed by
e preceding article, it may, during any part of the
campaign, require the second part of the said suc
cours, which (hall be furnifried to it in the man
rtck!iT u " We flXed; this P eriod ft* ll cil
V 'Tu 0m 11< * W requisition.
difnof a nfr P ,° Wei - Qlall llkeuife P la « at the ~
fpofal of the power requiring, within the #erm of
f inn "T ' r °/'" ckon from lhe period of requi- W
f ion, 18,°°° ,nft nfT) and 6000 cavalry, wi?U a
proportionate tr«n of artillery, to be employed in
Europe, or in defence of the colonies which the con- tsn
tracing powers poffefles in the gulph of Mexico. cd "
of r ij' r ° Wer r 23 aiKn S 11,311 the liberty dir
ot lending one or nißre comrniffioners to be assured or
that, agreeable to the preceding articles, the power
required has put itfelf in a state to take the field on ~
Vri 'n 1 ' ( * nava ' anll 'and forces.
difnof 1 cf succours ilvali be put wholly at the A
diippfai of-the requiring power, who may leave
them in the ports or in the territory of the power
required ; or may employ them in expeditions which
U it proper to undertake, without being
termine It S ' Ve aCC ° Unt ° f Xhe mor - ives whi ch de
nxaSi Jt f'™"* onc oF Powers (hall
»rticl! £l h C<>UT r F - U ' ated by tte preceding 1
thL„ il a Efficient proof of its wantin?
lZ' n a " d^ aH ' m P° fe 011 other power the 2 l° h
g to fumifh them, without the neceffitv of en-
J™f IDt ,° an y relative to the question"
Bvc'tShZ i* « d ir s bt
lion which may ttodfo'ei'jl'ih™"# "P 1 ""-
tht disposal <l,m>nd »< l lt'» re« »I
whole of the war uiH? 8 p ° Wer ' durill g J
charge The » ' ■' cafe > bein gits I W
ic! ilia'! remain on i's territory, or in its port*, it fl
furnifn thnii, from its magaaines or.aiienak Whai'e"
,il vermay be necessary, in the Tame manner,' ana
„,t the fame price, as its own troops or (hips.
„h X. The power required shall instantly replace the
e ft (hips ot its contingent which may be 101 lby thear
e) <-> dc ? ts ° f t V he / ea; a,,d " Hkewife
h ; Ss , r u £!„: o<r " wb ' ch : he "" p " ,fi "»»s'«
en XI. If the aforefaid succours (hould be, or (houl I
0 f become, inefficient, the two po w crs
(hall put inattion the greatest forces whichthey can
Woth by, sea and land, agakitt the enemy of the pow'
er attacked, which (hall use the said fortes, wheth'ei
by combining them, orcairfmg them to aft fri -ante
ly, and that according to a plan concerted between
them.
_ XIL The succours (lipulated by the pr-cenur
, articles, lliall be fuN.ifhed in all wars which the con
tracing parties may have to sustain, as well as in
those where the party required (hall not be direct'v
interested, and (hall ad only as a fi tuple mxiliarv,
le XIII. In the cafe where the motives ct lioltilitv' f
I. importing injury to the two powers, ihall nwe them !
declare war, with a common consent againlt one or
3- more powers, the limitations elhbliihed in the pre
i- ceding articles, (hall cease to take p-ace, and the two" ' '
jf cont rafting powers fliall be held k> bring into act on
y against the common enemy, the totality of their
h forces by sea and land, and to concert their plan> to
g direst them against the points most proper, whether
separately or united They equally oblige them-,
selves in the cases defenbed in the present article
F> not to treat for peace but with common accord, and
d manner that each of them may obtain the iatif
e raaion that mail be us due.
XIV. In the cafe where one of the powers shall
aft only as an auxiliary, the powerwhich ihall find
J ltfelffinglv attacked, may treat so peace feparatelv,
but in such a manner as that no prejudice (hall re'
fult to the auxiliary power, and which it shall even
turn as much as (hall be poflible to its direst advan
" tage. For this purpose it shall be made known to
the auxiliary power the mode and time agreed up
on for the opening and Conchrfton of negotiations!
XV. There (hall be immediately concluded a
e treaty of commerce upon an equitable footing ami 1
c reciprocally advantageous to the two people, which
(hall ensure to each of them, with their ally, a
marked preference /or the produce of their foil and
manufactures, or at least advantages equal to those
which the meft favoured nations enjoy in their ref
peftive lfates. The two powers engage to make,
< from the present time, a common cauie, to repress
and annihilate the maxims adopted by any coun
- try whatever, which may be fubveriive of their pre
- sent principles, and which may endanger the fafety
- of the neutral flag, and the refpeft which is due to
i it, as well as to raise and re-eftabli(h the colonial fyf
; tern of Spain on the footing on which it has fubfilh
r ed, or ought to subsist, conformably to treaties.
j XVI. The character and jurifdiftion of the con
r "fills (hall beat the fame time recognized and regula
. ted by a particular convention. Those anterior to V
. the present treaty (hall be provisionally executed.
XVII. To avoid every dispute between the two
powers, they (hall be bound to employ themfclves
i immediately and without delay in the explanation
f and develovement of the 7th article of the treaty v
; of Bade, concerning the fronaiers, conformable to
the inftruftions, plans, and memoirs, which (hall be
1 communicated througlijhe rnedionnoC— -
1 tentiaries who negociate the present treaty.
XVIII. England being the only power aeainft
■ which Spain has direst grievances, the prefem alli
ance (hall not be executed unless against her during
, the present war : and Spain (hall remain neuter with
refpeit to the other powers armed against the repub
• lie.
XIX. The ratifications of the present treaty (hall
be exchanged within a month from the date of its
being signed.
Done at f St. Ildephonfo, id Fruftidor (Aug. \0! the tjb (
year of the French republic > one and intfc.ijiblr.
Signed, PERIGNOM,
and THE PRINCE OF PEACE.
The Executive Directory resolves on and signs
the present offenfive and defenfue treaty of allknce
with his Catholic Majesty the king of Spain, negtv
ciated in the name of the Fjench republic, by Citi
zen Dominique Catherine Perignon', General of Di
vision, founded on powers to that efFect, by a refo
ld tion of the Executive Dire&ory, dated 20th Mef
fidor (Sept. 6) and charged with its inftru&iuiis.
Done at the Rationed Palace of the Executive t)i
rtdory, the \thyear of the French republic, fie
and indivijible. /
Conformably to the original. Signed,
REVEILLIERE-LEPAUXj President.
This treaty was ratified, Sept. tz, by the Coun
cil of Elders. -
Any Person
Who is well acquainted, with thl Rwrf
M 1 S SI S I P P I,
And will give Dire&iotas for failing into tlie fame,
that can be depended on, (hall be genercully rtvlT
ed for his information, provided he will ' ea^ e , t . c
directions with Mr. John Fenno, printer, Philadeip is.
or EdmundJVl. Blunt, Newburyporf.
Novemb?? 3.
This Day is Published,
And fold by JOHN ORMROD, Nq.'ai CheTaut-ftrert,.
( Price oneJixtcenth ef a Dollar.)
A P OEM
On reading the President's Address
WITH A SKETCH OF THE
CHARACTER OF A CANDIDATE
RT H E
PRESIDENCY. nd
This elegant fat tie Poem is printed in a iorm f
with the President's farewell addreis, lately
John Ormrod.
| November I. - —"
~1n"a nkeens,
September ij. . . j
: For New-York,
! The Schconcr Mary,
Douglaft, mijpf:
tew days, «nd take freight very - P?,' V,
! joseph Axhohy&y-
Nov.. 3.Phi LADF.LPUIA,
THURSDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 3, 1796.
IVe bear thai the Legislature of Nevt-Jerfey thaft, this day,
their HUBon of President and Hit President of tht United Stater.
i 8 M M U N ICA TIO N $•
To their honor be it said, the Clergy of the United States are
conflattly exerting themselves in preaching doivn Deism, and its fa
tal eff.-tis : while the Democrats and Jacobins (ivho now have
the im»udi*ce to call tbttnfehes Republicans) are dailyprcaching
in favour of Deism. or at leaf for a profejl Deijl (if not A
tbeifiJ for PreJtdent of th* United States . a man who tuts a
fainfi baling any oath tin the Cons itution j and ivho probably xvifh
es that ah oaths we/ tentßated from it. May it not be ajked ivbe
\her a greater Jarce could be afttdy th*n for the Chief Ju/liee to
aJr*'*ifi'T&n oath to fab ti me#. Men ivho believe in the Chrif
| fj in religion , generally consider an orfb lindnjr ; but it seems a
Dei ft thinks them altogether fyperfuous. What ivo/ldbe the ftu
ition ef fcirty in a felv yean, ivere at I our public officers Deijls ?
Would not thepeople twn Drif t also, and kick the Chris ian religion
out of doors '( In the natr.c of that Reli ion, then, let all ivho
regard it. use their ins nence th promoting the choiee of such Elect
ors as iv ill give US A CHRISTIAN f RESIDENT.
Who arc the men so anxious to get Jffirfon e
le&ed president ? ,
The old antifederalifls —the men who have even
tppnjtd the government of, the country —the men
who have always oVje£Ved to the establishment ef
public credit —the mem who opposed the Piefident's
proclamation of neutrality—who fupporttd Genet—
who promoted 'War —who opposed Mr. Jay's pacific .
million—-who fomented the weflern infurreliion —
who ftrived to violate the pledged faith of the na
tion and dejlrofour nationalcharußer ?
What are the people of America then to expect
from the administration of a chief magiflrate, uftier
ed into office under such aujpices ? f
In Fauchet , s intercepted letter, this foreign agent,
laments, very pathetically, that the western infur
re&ion had failed, by exploding too soon, and too
partially, before the enemies of the government had '
' ftifficiently matured their schemes. He then re
commends Jejfcr/on as a true patriot, and one whom
the patriots have fixed on for president; and ad
vises the French government te consult with Mon
roe, who could give the history of other chara&ers.
Fauchit also tells the French executive that he could,
with a few theufand dollars, have decided the im
portant queflion of civil war or peace sot the
United States.—Query. How much the pretended j
patriots will now demand te decide the important j
queflion, who (hall be president ?
Mr. Fenno, 1
A PARAGRAPH in the Aurora of Wednef- '
day, following so soon citizen Adet's note, publish- *
ed in that paper of Moacay, is a faithful comment t
, on that note ; the Aurora threatens us with -war a
from France, if we ele<S John Adams, president. v
What does this prove but that the note was calcu- h
lated, at the present jumfture, to excite that alarm, P
and thus to influence the ekttion. And will the real *
»nd independent Americans be so crouching as to r
have a president forced upon them by such daring
manoeuvres ? Is rot such a proceeding fufficient to °
alarm us for our liberties, and to roufe'that inde- f)
pendent spirit for which true American* are diftin - a
guifhed ? ft
What, if the Br'uifh minifler had pirblffhed at '1
the present juncture, a note endeavoring to alarm c
our fears about war ; and a newspaper, known to
be devoted to that minister, were immediately to °
threaten us with war, if we did not eledl as prcfi- t ]
dent, the candidate declared to be mod agreeable o
to that nation ? And does it make any difference, 0
at to our independence, whether the attempt comes 11
1 from oi)e nation or another ? Citizens of America, n
beon your guard, this is the crifu, when foreign P
powers will make th<ir great effort to secure a lafl
itig influence ova* your Affairs and direct your go- l \
VERNMENT. Do you wifli to become a department tl
of Fiance, and to be virtually ruled by comm'iffa- g
ries, through a nominal president ? tl
BRUTUS. 0
o
Mr. Fekno, "
Some pretended extract from the writings of Mr. Adah j C
have been handed to the public, and circulated ivith unusual indufiry, "
under the signature of Americatlus, and dated at jjoiten. 7'his
absurd forgery, ■which carries-with itfeff the means of detain,
■was actually fabricated in this city, at the table ef a "noted fpecu- '
lator. As bis paper fiands at about tbc fame value -with French "
jiJJignats, he no doubt feels a kind offymf athy ; and is probably de- 1
Jrous to rid himfef of his pecuniary emharraffments by the fame
means they have ufei—plundprapine and blfod. The company tc
that affjlriin this eompofttion, -will naturally be fupfofed of the ti
ram, ea/l of cbaraßer -v- Hh their 80/. But I hope -.1 ithout offence jvi
Uthefe worthies, that Mr. Adams may he permitted to fpral for ! th
himfef; his sentiments on American government and liberty, and fe
his opinion of (he African people may be fcen in the folloivinr j pi
genuine extrafl. * ,
" Americans, in this age, are too enlightened Ifr
" to be bubbled out of their liberties, even by such . re
" mighty names as Locke, Milton, Turcot, «r '
•' Hume ; they know that popular dedions of one m
" essential branch of the frequently re- °°
"peated, are the only pnjtlle method of forming a ™
" free conflttution, or of preferviag the government tif
"of men, or of preserving their lives, liberties or bo
*• properties in fccuiity ; they know, though Locke
" and did not, that -when popular tie,Hons an
" are given up, liberty and free government muR be ti- of
" ven up." * po
_ N<
Mr. Kinno,
y]" B * cl J e publilied fuiidry extrafb from Mr.
f?r f•' ' ® ty ,r f eXtraain K follow nit/ Br
-»om Mr. Jrrrerion s notes >on Vircinia— thev a
frnw ih< Philadelphia ediyon, pnbliftied by Prichaid& Hall
and in- as genuine at Mr. Bachc's extr»Jb. ' w
Page 1 aB. The ordinary legifbture may alter 'the contti'to. ia
'"mi ltlciu the
130. The affeniblies as well as the conventions raav model air,
the government; ' j c
134. There i,l no legal obstacle lo ihe affumprion by the ed
assembly, of all he power?, legiflativc execu iyeand judiciary l!n|
'37- There be.ng no barrier between .he legiflaiiveexecu." Sh,,
«ive,and judiciary depanmepts the may Wtht ha
whole, 'At JegifJalure poffefling a right to fix their own ouo-
Him, way >e«ute rh.,t quorum to oi,e, whom thev may tall ' CO k "
a chairman, (pecker, or by ,„ y e ,her name they ' h
pJr,-> e. j (
.31. A prutirnt acquieXcenct; at a crkieal time ftould be ''
enn.tr-c mio . conSmiation of every illegal thing done c!u- ,< lit
tnat pciied. .
i r
— tgo.-The aCquiefeence of trie eoionies, under the varTons
" arU of power eiterrifyd by O'teat-BrUain, confirm theft acts
and render them Unalterable, and our piefent refinance
wrnng.
135. The people like sheep or cattle, may be given from
hand to hand, without an appeal to their own will.
159. Corruption is reflrained, by confining the right of
. day, Tuftraje to a few of the wealthier people.
hates. 175. Let ui never to fee Our citizens occupied at a
WORK BSNCH.
i jo. One half the world fools, the other half hypocrites.
172. From the conclusion of this war we shall be going
down hill.
ies are 149. Never yet could 1 find Black had uttered a
] ts fa- thought above the level of plain narration.
have 154- This difference of colour is a powerful obstacle to
icb'm, the emancipation of these people.
it A-
as a- Ma. Fenno,
•wish- THf antifederal partv have been dealingout for some time
■trbe- P l '" > m thc,r la,t *ddrefa recommending Jcf
hce to ,he Y h » ve brought' them lorward ih mars. The tol
"L -c lowing quotation from Mr. Adams's book gives the lie di
'i(ect to the whale of their aft" rtions refpeftmg his opinions
mt r a on government.
j''"- With refpea ro the answer to Paine's rights of man, falfe-
J.'.' 'y ascribed to Mr. Adams, iris a well known fa&. which ma.
Z'°" ny perlons in this ri. y cau melt, that Mr. Adams has Ire-
V'ho qrendy declared h.< did not write, a pliable of it, arid that he
licit- never saw it till in print,. The party papers of this city cal
led Mr. Adams the author, and thence the boakleller iri Lon
don, to puff the book, put his name to it,
j! Kxtrafl from Mr. Adam* defence, p.,95.
" After all, Jet us compare every conftituiion w e have Teen,
with those of the United State! of America, jnd we shall have
:veu no realon 10 blush for our country'; on the conirary, we shall
men .feel the ftrongefl motives to fall upon our knees, in gratitude to
. 'heaven for having been graciously pleased to Jive us birth and
" education in lhat country, «nd for having destined us to live
' m S under her taws !We shall have reason to exult, if we make our
it— companion with England and the English conflitution. Our
\cific P eo P le are undoubtrdly/«'fr«£B, all the landed and other pro-
P ert y is in the hands of the citizens $ not only their reprefen- 1
tatives, but their senators and governors,are annually
na- chojen—there are no hereditary-titles, honours, offices, <
o: dijimclions the Icgilljtive, executive, and judicial power, !
tre (ft are c,ret ""y sep ar ate i from each other—the powers of the 1
her °"n ' ' he ' thc m ' ny ' arc nicf 'y balanced in their le- |
giflatures—trials by jury are preserved in all their glory, and
thrre is no standing army—the habtm corpus is in full j
force—the fi tejs is the mofl free in the world-ixti. where all
rent c < ;' rcum " ances 'ake place, it isunnccef&ry to add, that the '
1 laws alone c*n govern. \
"" u, e antif.-aeraladdreft fays Jeferfon is of no baity : why >
too then are the ant federal party pmTnoyirig every engine of artifice 1
had deception to get him defied f \
re- CIVIS. j
10m * 1
a d- AUTHENTIC.
ton- _ ;
ers. DEPARTMENT or STATE. !
uld, November 1, 1796. t
im- SIR, j
the have the honour to acknowledge the receipt ©f j
•ded your note of the s?th n,t- cover ' n g a decree of the <
Executive Direaory of the French republic, concern- f
ing the commerce of neutral nations c
This decree makes no diftintfiion between neutral a
powers who can claim only the rights secured to them i
by the law of nations, and others, between whom and ]
lf f. the V'reneh republic treaties have imposed special obli- 1
ifh- E atlons - Where no treaties exist, the republic, by
ent ! ClZln / and eonfifcat,r, g «he property of their enemies, t
found on board neutral vessels, would only exercise an r
acknowledged right under the law of nations, If to- t
ward » such neutral nations tfee French republic has for- o
cu. borne to exercise this right, the forbearance has been fl
■m, perfectly gratuitous. The United States, by virtue of
fa | their treaty of commerce with France, stand on diife
to rent ground.
In the year France voluntarily entered into a
» commercial Jreaty with us, on principles of perfeift re
eiproerty ; .W expreftly fitting, that f rie
e ' Jhould make free goods That is, if France should br
io- at war with any nation with whom the United States
should be at peace, the goods (except contraband) and
at the persons of her enemies (i'aldiers in a&ual service 1
rm exce P ted) found on board die vessels of the United v
to St * tes : wc ' e .!° from capture. That, on the V
other hand, if the United States should engage in war
with any nation, while prance remained at peace J
then the goods (except contraband) and the perfohs of C
ble our enemies ( soldiers in axSfual service excep-ed ) found U
ce, on board Frfnch vessels, were also to be free from can (
, es ture. This is plainly expressed in the twenty-third ar
tide of that treaty, and demonstrates, that ihe reci-
• procity thereby stipulated, was to operate at differ,-nt
n periods—That is, at one time in favour of cneof the ai
J eomtrafting parties, and of the other at another time <!■
O" the P re / en ' tin J e . the United States being at peace! ft
ent they possess, by the treaty, the right of carrying the
r a - goods of the enemies of France, without fubre<Sine
them to capture. But what do the spirit of the decree "
of the Execiifive Diredory, and the current of your ,
observations, require ? That'the United States should Ia
now gritu.toufly renounce .his right. And what rea
«», »ffig"«d tor denying to us the enjoyment of this U
>ry, ht ? /, our own words turnifh the answer. « France, le
'hi, r "»J United States, could find only a tl
<»", ,f'pdvarttage in the articles of that treaty, which U
•«- «« t9 " e re f l P ea ' d as American property, Eng
nch " l,(h P r «>P"ty found on board American vessels"— U
de- requifnion, and the reason afiigned to support it, 03
™ alike excite furpnf:. - p he American government, fir, J (
, ny confeous of the purity of its intentions, of its impar- V
t/, e tul observance of the laws of neutrality, and of its in- bi
7ITw > L re fl % r? 1 "' , taßnot tOF 4 admit in
for that it has forfeited the right to claim a reciprocal ob- ; n
md ; nce °i on tbfc part of the French re- !
( ! P" bl ' c > whose fnendfhip, moreover, it has ever culti- bl
; rated with perfefl sincerity. This right, formerly in- J u
rd i fringea by a decree of the National Convention, was B
' k y thC "P" 1 of that decr «- Why gi
, r | should be again queftiored, we are at a loss to deter- lb
IC Tamnr t ° f " ew reftra 'nts or our of
commerce by the British government: on the contrary j
we peffefs recent official information, that no neiu or- t
' ders have been ijfited. The captures made by the Bri- N
f , of Ame »«n vessels having French property on M
>r board, are warranted by the law .f nation,! The force re,
:f and operation of this law, was contemplated by France mi
u and the United States, when they formed their treaty of
- commerce ; and their special ffpulation £
point, was meant as an exception to an universal rule 1
Neither our weakness Bor our ftrcngth have any choicc '' e
rT.Ie t of the l | f eonCe ' ni the obfervi "« °f a '"
v the law of nations. tin
'J Rrit-Tn 3re P '" fe<l - t0 remark » that condud) of Great tui
d ftol VT PtUnnp Ameri "« vessels, bound to l.d pr,
" the .X ThSiefl may bC for
: :
' :• " ,o ," in WfJSdS;
:Sifter
tons tc mercial relations whith "cxift bet ween fitr an"? (V
«fls « United States ; if, by a fe*?d:om condefcertjion, it
mce « permitted the Engli/h to violate a rigJir, which it
" ought, for its o-jin honour and interejl, to defend ;
om "if under the clcak of neutrality, it presented to Eng
oC " land a pdignard, tp cut the throat of its faithful ally ;
" if, in fine, partaking in the tyrannical arid homicidal
at a " rr e °f Great-Britain, it concurred to plunge the
'* people of France into the horrors of famine." For
tel. the fake of preferring harmony, (Hence was preferred
ing to a comment upon these infiauations. .
You are also pleased te refer to your letters of March
:d 4 and April, last, relative to imprrfles of American sea
men by Britilh shins ; and complain, that the govern
:to ment of the United States had not made known to you
the steps they }>ad taken to obtain fatisfatftion- This,
lir, was a matter wiich concerned only that govern
ment. As an independent nation, we were ndt bound
. to render an account to any other, of the roeafures we
io j. deemed preptr for the of our own citizens,
ol _ so long as there was not the slightest ground to fufpedl
ona that thegoverimient ever aequiefced in any aggression. '
But permit-to recur to the lubjedl of the decree
lfe- ps the Executive Directory.
na - As before observed, we are officially informed, that
' re ~ the Biitilh government have ififod no new orders for
capturi#g the vefielsof the United States. We are also
Q d n " official!/ informed, that on the appearance of the noti- j
fication of that decree, the minifler of the United ! '
States at Paris, applied foi information, " whether or- | ]
en, " ders were ill'ued for the fejzure of neutral veilels, and j
ave " was that no such order was ifiued ; and |
lall " further, that none such would be iflued, in cafe the ,
f " rl —— * seize our veflels." This eommunica- .
' nd tion from the minifterof the United States at Paris, to \
we their minister in London, was dated the jßth if Au- ,
)ur *»«•' ut t^le decree °f the Directory bears date the <
ro- 'f tll Mcffider, aufwering to the id of July. These i
en- circumstances, together with some observations in your
ly note, leave the American government in a state of un
:es, certainty of the real intentions of the government 6f
er, France. All»w nie, then, to a®, whether, in the ac
the tual state of things, our commerce is considered as Ha
lf- ble to ftiffer any new* reSridfions on the part of the
in ° French republic*.' Whether the re/TVainrt now excrcifed ]
by the Britilh government are considered as of a nature
t k e to juftify a denial of those rights which are pledged to
us by our treaty with your nation ? Whether orders
■hy have been adluatly given to the ships of war and priva- 1
sice teers of the French republic to capture the vessels' of
the United States? And what, if they exist, are the
pre<*ife ternts of those orders ?
_ 1 hefe questions, fir, you will fee are highly interest- i
tng to the United Stares. It is with extreme concern
that the government finds hfel. reduced to the necessity -
of a/king an explanation of.t his nature ; and if itfliall I
be informed that anew line of condutf is to be adapted ]
towards this countrv, on the ground of the Decree re- 1
terredto its surprize will equal its regret, that prisci- l
ef pies fhoul J now be questioned, which, after repeated
he discussions, both here and m France, have been deraon
n- itratea to be founded, as we conceive, in the 1
ons of impartial neutrality, of stipulations by treaty ]
a' and o f law of nations. I hope, lir, you will find '
m it convenient, by an early anfvrer, to remove the fuf- (
id penie in which the Government of the United States is
li- bow hcid on the questions above stated.
>y I shall close this letter by one remark on the fineulari- ,
s, !y of your causing the publication of your note. As it
m concerned the United States, it was properly a'ldreffed '
a- to its government, to which alone pertained the right
r- of con,rrain,eating it in such time and manner as it -
:n mould think fit, to the citizens of the United States.
lam, Sir, with great refpefl,
e- Your inofi objtdient Servant, f
TIMOTHY PICKERING. )
» RY THIS DAY'S MAILS. I
»- — t
BAL riMORE, November j, a
« Arrived yetterday, brig- Isabella, Helm, ir J
(1 Jays frem Charledon—Sugar— Buchanan and 0
e Hie brtg Juno is in the bay, bound up. a
lr Alloariivetl yeller iay, schooner Godfrey, Capt. F
Jones, 13 days from Halifax—Fifh—John Can ere. t!
>f Captain informs, that a number of expreflis g
d had arrived at Halifax, all bringing accounts of the f]
»- turrender of Newfoundland to the French. An b
c *prefs had likewil'e arrived, tluee hours only be- f<
it fore he failed, with intelligence that the French had h
e actually taken Si. John's, together with coremo- "
.. dore Wallace's squadron, cqnfitting of a jo gun ° u
', "''P> 'wo frigates, and a (loop of war. C
e In addition to the above, a gentleman of infor- '«
S mat ion and veracity, who came pafTeoger wilh cap. "
r tain Jones, Hates the following interesting partieu- C '
- That while he was at Halifax, a vefTel arrived tl
is there from the Gulf of St. Lawrence, by which
;, letters were received, mentioning the capture of
« the Quebec fleet hy the French—That on the i &th
n _ inft. when the vessel i n which he came was ,bout
to oepart, intelligence was received at the govern- w
t> ™ e nt-houfe, by express, that the town 0 f St. tfc
wn S (m Newfoundlan-1) together with admiral in
•- Wallace s squadron, ttationed ihere, had likewise f'
been taken by the French-That their fleet, confiit- a
twg of from r 5 to , 7 fail „f the l ine> were the „ *
- - nSfor the rivel " St - Lawrence,
_ but their dettination unknown—That a veflel had
" 6 <!a y from «hc Grand
s Banks of Newfoundland, the captain of which
jr g»v«J infermation that be saw ten large ships of war "
- landing to the eastward, and that in confluence Vv
of this intelligence, a large chain had been carried
-M' w ' lock y ard ancl ft'etched across the f"
' M >' 3 i m ' , a f "S atC hkewife sent dewn to
> Ma J or 8 Beach, attheentrai.ee of the haibsr, to so
. retnatn asa guard fh.p, » n cafe the French (hould an
: make their appearance—That the fall-failing floep P°
i ° f W " S PS n " r ' of ' 18 guns, had been dispatched Bf
from HahfaX towards Newfoundland, to gain intel- , VC
, the force, operations and deft Lien of
, ne enemy, but that not having returned in the
time expected, it was supposeS (he had been cap
tureo and finally, that they were making every
preparation the defence of Halifax, and giving
orders for the milrtia of the province, to hold them £
march at _a moment's warning, si
A few Pipes of WINE f hl
Imported in the brig FAME, from Madeira, to be soU
by MORDECAI LEWIS
1i > m S S aI to^" h of ° n realona ble terms,
J , ?" U - £I j!' s . well aCorted
BANDANNA HANDKERCHIEFS „
WIDE NANKEENS
COSSAS AND BAFTAS
HAV.ENS DUCIO
DIAPERS 1 ,
QtTICK SILVER
CHINA /J
KOLL BKIMSTONE, &c.
Ober ij. .
{ siWilll ]
-> , 1 -h
V \ Celebrated New Work. ' N
It , \ •
• This Day is Published,
'g- By JOHN ORMROD, No. 41, in Chefnut Street, (four
Y ; volumes in two, neatly bound and lettered, price did
<al lars, % 50 —100) " 1
or THE LOOKER-ON,
eti A PERIODICAL PAPER.
ch 3y the Rev. SIMON OLIVE-BRANCH, A. M.
a " Ore teres modioo Pallentes radlre Mt&t
n " Deli us, et ingtnuo culpam def.gr re /uJo.
AUU, Ptßs.
is, , —My business in this State
n- Made me a Loo*er-on here in Vienna;
td Where I have seen corruption borf-and bubbfe r
« Till it o'er sun the ft™ ; laws for all faults ;
s> But faults so fountenane'd, that the flrcng ftatutrs
« Sand like the forfeits in a barber's {hop,
• ' As much in mock as mark.
C£ Mecfurc for Mtafure.
ft "f 1 appearsfrom the dedication, that the editor of this
3r pnblication, is the Rev. William Roberts, 4. M F A $
so Fellow of Corpus Chilli College, Oxford; and from'the*
. I last -umbex, that the labor, and the merit of
rd f pa ? ers -', ve the editor, excepting only
r | afwccmti.bnt.on. particßUflyfflentianed. The editor's N
id design has beta, as represents it, "to fubftmite
ld the roo"m of life > °«are. and taste, in
the room of fhaflow politics and newspaper philofophv and
1,0 , betra r niL ' n - ™ d «' maffc of amusement, into fJriow
? 0 » ndma "'y thoughts. This design was laudable, and thff
. execution was mentonous. As literary predudfions. these
periodical papers arc entitled to cliflmSion fbut their hiX
r eft P raife,s ' ,h f the y throughout calculated to So.
Ie mote virtue and goop manners. P
\[ N#v a Analytical Review.
Sf d 6t.
;; William Gardner, No. 62
,e SOUTH FRONT-STREET, '
d Has received by the late arrivals from Liverpool
0 Glasgow,
An ajortment of DRT GOODS
Which he will dispose of upon low terms, fop ca (I»
>f er the usual cred.t, by the piece or package—
C p on Jtfl">Z of -Sf_
t- p Calicoes and Chintze#
n ri inted Handkerchiefs and Shawls
y Jaconet and Book Muffins, well assorted
II f"• do. tamboured do.
t J?, 0 ' , . f°- Handk's and Shawls' do.
- White and coloured thre ds
Diaper and diaper table cloths
Cott< » check and check handkerchiefs
; Striped and coloured jjankeens
r ' ; Dimities and quilting* >
d Tapes and garters.
f- Cotton counterpanes
• Metis and womens gloves
Plats and'ftockmgs
!' Ofnaburgs, hcd-ticks and brdwn Hollaed
d Stationary, &c. See. kc.
t November i, ■
! •» tnt«
it
. The Creditors of Scott and M'MichaeL
m " Ch ' d T ° f this d who failed m t,i
1 afed bilL° o r f 17 1' 1 Wh ° m t!4e luWcri " Pur'
dialed bills of exchange to amount of r -ii 1 1 *
pounds sterling, which\ave lain " h Lc 'farf'
requested tv ER v MA „ o, „ lEa tI,L ~ (
S". I"" T JUCi ' Uy > the th
at 6 o cock in the evem.ng, m order to obl-e Charlcl
Cox, former y of this city, now of New-Jersey' and lohnr
1a 7 ' 7 ni VX° f /" d CUy ' and f P" k <=r o/the House
of AlTembly of said state, now of Brunfwick, New-lerfev
assignees offa.4 Scott & M'Micha.l, to come JorwardaTd
. pay «ver the momesthey have had in their hand* £k2-
• g , the "editors.these 3» or 33 years. Some years a
go the creditors were callcd together • Mr cw l,
ed in behalf of himfelf and Mr. Bayard, and alleged "at
" apprehensive they might be brought imo trou!
1 ble if they parted with the money (which I aonr Jh zT
■ l ! me thousands,) as his Britannic Majefly had a debt due
j him for gover»mentbills: it was howevlr ugr.ed by thff'
" counfel'' Zv the »
) in di! .7 °' and " was that they would be fafer
in dmding the money among the creditor, \ urld Mr
Cox to bring the business to a final clof- • h!« »„r
.it would be but a triflino- f™ L V nfwcr was '
■ r:fe ir" h - -5 L-zz
! they ought tb pay interest too. ' T ' and
f * pu'i jj *. , George Meade.
Philadelphia, id November, 1796. ' dtijN-
credltor s of the late Abel James,
for a balance due on a returned bill of 10001. iter line coll.
damages and interest. «^i.iteiiing,colt»»
p. ; , ~ ~ vr George Meade.
hiladelphia, November id, 1793. dtßN>
andlt Cr f ltors °f V™ Vleck and Barton,
re « S n" on iV°' ( Wk ° failed in 'he year , 7 g 4 )
W.a m V qU u cftedto mset "the City-Tavern on
verv creditor rK. vu 1, 7 4 ind flowed e
u/poandof " 3 — &
L c /z e ? mju üb >- '
nt-'n ;„-ti • , at t"e City-Tavern oi>Mo*dav the?
®, da " !a K- *o per cent, and interefC ° f I'oool-.iler1 ' 0001 -. iler -
The Creditors of William Bradford\
(who formerly kept the Ola Po<R-,. m r >
r.queHed to meet the c"ty-'l n
vcmber, at 6 o'clock. * 3 a N -
Not . 3 . Geir S e Meade.OLD
London Particular Madeira Wine,
In pipes, hogsheads and quarter-caika,
Landing this day at Chefnut-ftreet Wharf, and
for sale by.
Jefepb Antbany & Co.
No». i. d
Best Boston & Nova-Scotia Mackarel,
Excellent Halifa* Salmon in bbli.
47 bW». prime Coffee,
/ Best Boston Beef,
Codfifh in hd«.
Spermaceti Candles,
. < Spermaceti, and 1 . T
Northern j ° 1
Mould aNd dipt, tallow candles, of a superior
'quality.
A few boxes excellent broWa soap,
6 Bales of Corks.
40 Pipes excellent Lifoon Wine.
A few sacks of Feathers.
A few bales India Muslins.
FOR SALE BY
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
Oflober 31. d
No. 18, NORTH SECOND-STREET.
John Green & Co.
Have for Sale, 00 low terms, for Cast ar the usual
credit,
" A General AJfortment of
Ironmongery, Cutlery, Brass and Ja
panned Wares,
And » quantity of Ground White Lead, and Spanilh
,Brown in Oil and Powder.
LIKEWrSB,
A small invoice of Hats, of different qualities.
October 26. m&iutf
Loft Last Evening,
At Rieketts's Amphitheatre, (supposed to be taken by
some villain out of a gentleman's pocket)
A red Morocco-Leather POCKET-BOOK,
Containing about 185 dollars in banknotes; three notes
e< hand of Rofs and Simfon, No. 304, 305 and 306, da
ted nth last August, payable 60 dsffs after date, to the
order of Paul Siemen, together for Jl5O dollars; an order
of Mrs. Ann \ acpherfon, from Paul Siemen, on Lach
lin Mac Neal, Esq. at Port-au-Prince, for 100 dollars ;be
fides fcveral letters and papers of no ule but to the proprie
tor. The notes of hand and order are without
nient. EIGHTY DOLLARS REWARD is offered to
any person vho will discover asd secure the thief, and : '
FORTY DOLLARS for only bringing the above menti
oned notes and papers at No. I*9, corner of Front and
Mulberry streets. d Oft. kx.
To be Rented,
A Small and Convenient BR E IV E Rr, all
Morris faille, oppofitr Trenton.
ALL the Apparatus for Brewing new and in good '
repair : A number cf Barrels and Half Barrels will
also be rented. Pofleffion may be had at any time.
Enquire of Mr. Garrett Cottringer in Philadelphia, 1
or Mr. Robert Morris, jun. or Daniel Mun at Morris
yille.
©Sober 10, 1796. mth&stw
• ' .11 1 .i
Valuable Real Estate,
For sale at A union by Casper Thiell, of Hamburg, h
late the property of Jamei and William Kinntar. f
For sale by public anaion, on the 9th day of November f
next ensuing, at the sign of Gen. Wafliingtort, Wood's
tavern, borough of Reading, Berks county, the follow
ing real eftate,viz. ' r
x A TRACT of land containing 4fijacres with
■FX allowance for roads, called the Purchase,
{mated in Brunfwick townfttip, Berks county, patented, -
18th o' Jan. X 788 This tract, of which about -5 acres
are cleared, is of good foil, situated on the Tomagua, or
Little Schuylkill, well watered and timbered, on which is r
trcded a good log derailing hcrufe and stable.
No. 2. A trait of unimproved lend, containing 284 a- ,
eres, with allowance, &c. called Hopewell, patented 18th ,
©Sober, 1790, situated in Brunfwick townikip, Berks .
tfounty, foil good. ' ■'
No. 3. A tra& of unimproved land, containing 376 a- •
eres with allowance, &c. called HilKburg, patented 28th '!
Oflober 1790, situation, &c. as No, 2.
No. 4. A tradl »f unimproved land, containing 388 a
•res, with allowance, &c.'patented 28th of October, 1786, c
situation, &c. asNo. 2 and 3.
No. 5. A ttaA of land, containing 168 acres, and 52 p
perches, with allowance, &c. filiated in Brunfwick town-
Oiip, Berks county, on Tomagua, or little Schuylkill, 3
miles above the town of Hamburg, on which is ere&ed a
well finifhed two story fqunredlog dwelling hsufe, '27 J
feet by 35, within the riiftance ofioo perchesfrem a forge,
with the advantage of a ferry and public house; these ad
vantages render this trad very valuable.
No 16. A town lot in Hamburg, enclosed with a poll
and rail, or board fence, containing in front, 60 feet, and
in depth iß* feet, fubjeft to a ground rent of 7/6 per an- V
•Bum. t
No. 17. A town lot in Hamburg, encjofedasne 16,t0
"which it adjoins, being of the fame dimensions, andfubjeel
to the fame ground rent,on which is ere&ed a loe stable *
16 by xl feet
No. jB. A town lot in Hamburg, adjoining to No 17, 0
a torn«r lot, fronting on Main and Schuylki!* Areets, di- 1
mtnfions the fame as No. 16 and »7, above defcrib«d, sub- ''
jefi to 10/0 per annate ground rent. On this lot is er
efteda Urge i story dwelling house, 45 fee? fr nt on Main "
Rreet, by 34 feet in depth on Schuylkill ftreat, pleasantly
andadvantigroufly fituatea for a ft ore. v
N. B. The above deferibed three town lots will be fold " I
-tf.«ra;<!y or together, as may best fun the purctnfers.
Conditions of sale-—One third of the purchase money ®
to be yaiato the faufcri'oers, or either of them in Philadel
phia at -or bet jre the expiration of one month from the
day of sale, when a deed of conveyance will be executed ;
the refiduepayibleinitqsilpaynients. at 6 and 12 months
with interest.the j-aymcut thereof to be secured by mort- 11
gage on the premises. o
James HerxLrfon, ") A<r,„ n
Frrtrici M.ntmMn, ( tie
Thomas Rogers, f James & Wm.
Jofepb D. Drinker, J Kinnaar. * •
;6. m &
NOTICE.
haVin e been reduced m his rircum I
X ltanets, hyfur;jry nrisfortnr.es, ami beine thershv
%nable to fatisfv hi. iuft debts, hereby g,ve« notice to his *
Creditors and to all pcrtons concerned, that he intends to
2l l l f T«Aly ot Marykndat their next °
feffioii to be held oa the firft Monday of November new. a
for the benefit of an a& of infolvcncy.
WILLIAM £DMONDSON v
Eafto., ift tfcejtbmonth,.796. *»wtxftMN
Washington Lottery.
The 34th and 3Jth days' drawing of the Waihington
Lottery, No. a, are received at the office No. 234, M.tr
, ket-ftreet, where tickets may be examined.
N. B. Information given where tickets in all the other
lotteries may be procured.
November 3, 1796. d
Sale by Auction.
» Tobe fold on Saturday evening the stlj of November, at
7 o'clock, P. M. at the Merchants' Coffee House.
TWO three story brick houses with convenient kitchens
north fide of Mark«t,between Seventh andEighth-ftrects,
each houle with the priviledge of an alley is 16 1-2 feet
front ; the lot is 150 in depth.
One two story brick house jn Za«e-ftreet, commonly
called Sugar alley. The houf* is 16 I-i fe»t front, on said
alley, with a good kitchen ; the lot is 90 feet in d<pth.
One vacant lot,adjoining the said house, in Za: e-flreet,
16 1-2 feet front, and 90 feat deep ; a' the end of 90 feet
the/aid lot widens 33 teet.und runs back, of the Maria*
street lots 111 ftet, 33 feet wide.
One two story brick house and kitchen in Zane llr ,
16 1-2 feet front; the lot 45 fetit in depth.
45 acres of excellent meadow land in Greenwich,
which will be fold either by small parcels or 12 atre lots.
50 tons of excellent upland hay. Enquire of
HENRY SECKEL,
GEORGE COOPKR,
HENRY SHE.VPF,
ABRAHAM WILT, or
EDWARD FOX, Auaioneer.
October 29.
n Wm. Holdernesse, No. 76,
HIGH-STREET,
Has received by late arrival*,
1- A IVell Selected Assortment of
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
Haberdashery Goods,
Which he will fell, wholesale and retail, «n the very
jjoweft terms ;
Amongjl ivbich are
- Seme elegant 4-4 and 7-8 Chintzes and Cottons, new
patterns
Ditto Fnrnitnre ditto
Ditto Dimity
Tamboured, Book, and Jaconet Muslins
Ditto, in Gold and Silver
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine
Mantuas of the firft quality
Silk and Cotton Hosiery
, c Umbrellas of the frft quality, asserted
ir lrift Linens, very fine, and Table Linens
Marseilles and Cotton Counterpanes
Rose Blankets afforted—&c. &c.
OAober 26. d
To be Sold,
d The Time of a smart, active Negro Lad,
• Who has E'even years to serve.
Enquire at No. jB, South Front-street.
Oflober 18. J
THIS DAT PUBLISHED,
it By J. ORMROD, No. 41, Chefqut-ftrect,
(Price I* 1-2 Cents)
,j The President's Address
To the People of the United States,
, Announcing his intention of retiring from public life
.. at the expiration of the present constitutional term of
presidency.
September 20. d
MR. RICKETTS
BEGS leave to inform the Ladies and Gentlemen, that
•, he will open his RIDING SCHOOL on the ill of Nov.
for the i*ftrnc:ion of Ladies and Gentlemen in the ele
gant accomplishment of riding and managing their horses
T with ease to themselves.
8 Mr. Ricketts has well trained Horses for the accom
modation of Ladies and Gentlemen for cxercife, to pay
monthly. Pupils to pay by the season, or by the lclTon.
Horses trained to the road or field.
j> Ooleber 24. d
Lottery and Broker's Office,
Na. 64, South SsCOt/D STREET.
* ' I 'ICKETS m the Canal Lottery, No. 2, for faie a
A Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in ,
the late lottery.
' Check Books kept for examination and registering, for
.the City of Walhington, No. 2, aßd Pattefon Lotteries,
both »f which arc now drawing—information where
tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn 1
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New- 1
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
examination. |
' The fubferiber solicits the application of the public
and his friends, who wish to purchase or fell Bank Stock, '
_ Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands',
&c. or to obtain money on depofir of property,
j Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for «
sale at Ten Dfellers each, which will be drawn early in f
the Spring. 1
Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, jtugvfi 18, 1796. m th
1 DANCING bCHOOL. t
- WILLIAM M*DOUGALL will open his school on Moti- <
day the 31ft iflil. at tea o'clock in the morning, at hig c
* Elegant hew Ball Rooms, '
In Fourth, between Chefnut and Walnut Streets, t
Hours of tuition for young ladies, from 10 to i o'cloek t
, on Mondays, Wednesday, and Friday mornings; and for '
- young gentlemen from 6 to 9 o'clock on the evenings o '
. the fame days. 1
In addition to a number of new cotillioas, he means to 1
1 introduce a variety of Scotch Reels. f
f Note. The firft praAifiug ball to be on TueCday «-
vening, the firft of November, and to be coatinuod every I
j Tuesday, daring the season. 1
For terms, &c, enquire «t his house, No.l34, Market. \
- '7-
c ; A Manufactory FOR SALE. 1
s A V.luable SOAP and CANDLE Manufactory, situate
.- in a convemew part of tfie city ; the works almolt new
o.i an entirely original conftruflion, and built of the left .
materials, and may be set to work immediately. Perioi.s
f Wi&to pure bale, are requested to appiv at No 275
1 South Second Street. i7 »'
September 13. , , f tf
FOR SALE.
- A PLANTATION,
A BOUT 12 miles from this City.fitttfte in Abisg.
-TY ton Township, Montgorr.ery-County ; containing
' nIVT' r ew We. two (lories h.gb, « rooms on .
floor, fi, e pl.ee, each, a stone kitchen and lione f pr i„ e
C, , OVrr ', n exeefltnt fpr. ng of W at.r, a b»rn, ft.ble,
Of aC i- llr ge apple orchard, and a varirtvof
t ot "bout ti acres of good meadow well watered
and wood fufficieot for fire,and fencing the place. PcfTcffi.' "
tl>e \ A ° f A P"' next - Property in this city
will betaken mexcUnge, ?I MORRIS and NICHOLSONS
J En q««e at No. 37) Aich.Strcet.
rhiladeiphia, September 13, 1736, ttftf j
FO R aAL E,
3An elegant HOUSE, No. Walnut
ftreet ;
r WHICH it 15 feet front, by 171 feet deep, with 1
lot adjoining, 10 i-i feet wide, by 71 feet 8 inches
deep. (This lot is back of the house occupied by
George Willing, Esq.) The house is completely finilh
ed in every refpetf. It it 50 feet deep, has two
large p irjours,- the front one 14 feet, the back one is
t ii teet, by 18 x-i feet, a handsome drawing-room,
»4 1-1 feet by 14 feet. Ths rooms below, the riraw
s ing-room and the chambers adjoining, have mahogany
5 doors, and tliefc as well as the rooms above them have
:t a communication with each other. The height in the
firft and fecund story is II feet, and have ftoco cor
-7 niees, and nine rooms up flairs, beftdes the garrets,
d which are divided into three rooms, a good kitchen,
wash-house, milk and bathing-houses, a l«rge ice- (
t,. house, a pump in the yard, and a 3 feet 3 inch alley,
:t that leads into Fourth-ttreet, The cellar* are laid with
lime, and floored with two inch plaJik, and plastered.
The yard is well pitved, and the house is clear of
» ground-rent. All the rcoms have bells 111 them, and
the chamber bells ring in the garret, as weil as in the
'» entity down flairs. All the chambers have whit,e tiles,
except the one next to the drawing room, which has
as well as the drawing-room and the two parlours be
low, marble chimney pieces. The drawing-room, the
two parlours below, and the entry, are papered up to
the third story: In the room over the kitchen is avt
open stove. In the wash room there is an oven> and
the back buildings, from the cellar, all the way up,
- have large clofeta, and in the cellar is a large bottle
rack, a wine store is taken off of the cellar, and three
bins to hold liquor are made in said room
with padlocks to them ; she whole cellar and the c«t!c
loft are as well plaflered as any room in the house.
Ir. lhort, the house is in every refpe<!l completely finiih
-1 ed. PoifelSoti tha.ll be given in ten days after die house
js fold. Two brick stables in Walnut-street, with
two coach houses. oue'of them will hold two carri
f ages, the other one. The smallest (table has room for
three, and the largest for four horses. It is is 31 feet
front on Walnut-street by 50 feet, 3 inches deep. They
have excellent lofts over them. The building is arched
and laid with lime and two-inch plank, and the cellars
will hold about 100 pipes of win* : Is clear of ground
rent, and has the privilege of an 11 j-i feet alley, that
leads into Fifth-ftreet. Also a brick Acre, 33 feet front
on Fourth-street, by jo feet deep, which might at a -
small expence be turned into a liundfome dwelling house
having been so contrived inthe building. It has a yard
48 feet (1 inches wide, by 24 feet deep, has a rain wa
ter pump, and ather conveniences, and the cellar is laid 1
with two inch plank, and is now rented at 40 dollars
per month. This building is fubjecl to a ground rent of t
11 dollars 3-4 per annum. The store and flables I would a
give immediate poHfffion of. t
George Meade >
No. 78, Walnut Street.
Terms «f payment for the foregoing property, vix.—
16301. may lay one year certain, after the sale and if
the intereli is regularly paid, that humane, worthy,good,
and friendly man, Edward Stiles, Esq. lays it may Uy
is long as the purchaser pleases (purely he fays to oblige
me) the intereli being regularly paid.
48001. to be paid in approved nates, and approved in
• dorfcrs at it'months, the remainder in approved notes
and approved mdorfers, at 15, 18, and 24 months, the
property to be secured for the payment. The ftablesraay
be paid for in like manner, and thejftore too, all but 4CSO
dollars, which mull be paid in an approved note, and ap
proved indorfer, at 6 months, the whole payable with
intcreft.
Ofl. s6. dx.
'THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED, * t]
By Benjamin Davics,
A'e. 68,
The AmcTican Repository of ufeful n
information, for 1797.
CCNTjtINIHG,
A Calendar for the year
A complete Register of the Executive, Legislative,
and Judic ; ary Officers of the General Government.
A Lift of the Military Forces of ihe United States.
Poft-Office Eflablifhinent—times of receiving and
elofing the Mails at Philadelphia.
The poll roads and towns, and their distances
Times of holding the Supreme, Circuit and Diftri&
Courts.
A table of Impost duties, alphabetically arranged.
A lift of the custom-house officers aud their fees. -»
Rules for reducing the currencies of the several I
states in'o one another, and all of them into the mo
ney of the United States. ; f
Ufeful tables of the value of pounds, Ihillings and fc
pence, in dolkrs and cents. j,
A register oi theofficer&of the civil government of d;
Pennfyivania. a j
A gardlner's calendar for Pennsylvania. P
And a great variety of other articles of ufaful in form a- R
tion. Etnbellilhed with twelve elegant vignettes, an en- li
graved title-page and frontispiece,—making together, a at
handfoaie, as well as very ufeful, little pocket companion. P
° aoher *°- aawtf F
STOF THE THIEVES!!! ?
LAST Wcdnefday I'.vtning, Oftobrr 19, between the
-' 00 clock, the bed i°°m of Mr Ricketts in .
0 El lei » hotel was emcted, tuher by mean, oi falfe kev s
orat the window, by tome villain or villains, who must have
been acquainted wi.h the filiation of the house (as the door m
was found locked attei they committed the theft) who n:
took away from amonitt fever.l trunks, ONE which con- P'
tamed a valuable part of Mr.Rickett's property, but of which »
is not yet able to ? c rtain the comcnts particularly, As.
ter bringing the said trunk away, and emptying it of up. I«
ward, or a Wand dollars in calh and bank notes, the vil.
lain, left it behind the circus, during the time that the pcr
foimanees of the were going forward- p,
It I.can,eftly resetted, U.at all tavern-keeper. on the flaee
roads, the ferry hcufes, as well as all civil officers, may
be watchful infecuiir,; lufpicious ptrfoos, who may have a
w CO . " Q *' vhlch 'hnr appcaiance would - by no
meansbefpeak them to fie pofrcrffcd of. '
One Hundred Dollars Reward
Will be given for lecuring the thief or thieve., and a fur- t»
OS a" fecurtng them with the pioperty. so
d- tr
__ For Sale,
Ihu day Landing from on loard the Jlip Concord, P>
Y a P[ a,n 'Thomgon, f rum Amjlerdam, -
Gin, in pipes J '
Empty Gin Cases th
Hock ic cases of 4 dez. b
Glass Tumbler, in chefis fc
Sweet Oil in eases ' th
Patte Graffe Cheese in boxes, bV ri
' by the Louisa, Cubt. Bell from I !/L™ "
60 quarter-calks Liftwn Wine.) ' Ljjton, qJ
On Har.d,
A quantity of Brandy, in sacks, & c .
OAober tj. =
r? — daw eolw p
(
Tt, if j" ~ Ofiober 5, 1796.
fc November. * U1 aonuntnc « firft Mocday
i UWJW
Irish Linens, 3ce.
Imfsrt'J per the ships Glafgoiv, from Dublin, L,b~
, from Cork, and brig Mentor, from Bel fa/}
•3 4-4 and 7-8 Wide IRISH LINENS
y In whole and half boxes, J
i- Aflbrtei from rid to 4s. sterling—Also 5.4 w -.
0 Sheetmg«, and low priccd yarn and worsted Hole. '
is On Hand,
~ 7-g Wide Lawns.
r- Diapers and Table-Cloths
y A few boxesTickens and Checkt
e A few bales Flannels I
c Cork and Bclfall Sail Cloth, Nos. 1 and 6
15 Boxes ") r 6 br S,
( 10 Ditto S- Window Glafj, <7by o
lj J Ditto J C 3 by 10!
The above mentioned Goods are all entitled to •)»
drawback, acd will be disposed of by the on
, reasonable terms. *
U James, Clibborn & English,
, . No. 6, N. fcror> street.
d loth mo. 19th. oli
Just Landing,
.5 At South J reel-wharf, from cn board the flnp ScJ-*.
ley, Captain Hodge, from St. Pelerfbur-r, *
The following Goods :
Russia Sail Duck, firft quality.
j Do. Sheeting do.
, i>o. Diaper.
e Do. Huckaback. 1
c Do. Craft.
# t>o. Mould Candles, 4, 5 and 6, to th« lb. of the
Engltfli size.
Do. White Candle Tallow.
J Do- White Soap in finall boxes.
: Do. Cordage of fine yarn.
® Ravens Duck.
ICnglafs, ift and and fott.
Horfc Hair uncurlcd.
r 9-ullia Bar Iron.
t Do. Hoop Iron.
1 Do. Nail Rc •».
1 10 Tons Oakum and Junk.
t St. Petersburg; Clean Hemp.
For Sale by
Philips, Cramond, & Co.
O&ober tz. .
1 — '
i Waflnngton Canal Lottery,
NO. I.
WHEREAS the State <Jf Maryland has authorifcj
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
; twobundrct}, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
1 a Canal through the City of Wafliington, froM th Po
iomacto theEaftern Branch Haruour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz 1 Priie of 20,000 dollars, ao.ooo
I ditto 10,000 to,ooo
r 7 last drawn 7
Tickets,each J s ' oco 35,000
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
10 ditto 400 t 4,-00
io ditto 100 I,coo
SS ditto 50 2j ' 7ja
, SIS° ditto I* £ 9)00 g
To be raiftf for the Canal, 16,150
5850 Prizes, 175,000
1x650 Blacks, not two to a prize.
I7JOO Tickets, atTtn Dollars, - 175,000
* £5" The CommilTioner< have taken the Stcuritirt re
quired by the aforcfaid for the punctual payment of
the prizes.
The drawing »f this Lottery will commence, withoat
delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after the
drawing is fiiufred, (ball be conCdercd as rel.n<juiffrcd for
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed J NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, a/D.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORCSE '.VALKEB,
Wm. M. DUNCANiSOff,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of Wartiißjvoe, Feb. 11. 5 (j
Treasury Department,
September 28, 1796.
NOTICE Is hereby given, that proposals will he re
ceived at the office of the Secretary of the Treasury
i until the expiration of the firft day of March next en
suing, for thcfupply of all rations which may he required
for the use ©f the United States, from the firft day of
June, 1 7f97> to the thirty-firft day of May, 1798, bo?h
days inclusive, at the places and within the diftrids here
after mentioned, vix. At Ofwego; at Niagara; at
P-icfque lfie; at Sapdufky Lake, and on Sanduflry
River; at Detroit; at Michilimackinac; at Fort-Frank
lin at Pittsburgh ;at Cincinnati; at Fort-Harailton ;
at F«wt St. Ciair; at Fort*JcfFeffon ;at Grcnviffe; aS
Picquc Towd and I-oramies Store; at Fort A dams; at
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance ; at any place below Foit
Defiance 03 the Miami River to Lak<; Brie; at Fort
Steuben ; at Fort Maflac ; at any place from Fort Maffae
to the fontk boundary of the United States on the river
Miflifippi ; at Fort Knox ; at Quiatanon.
supplies shall be required ior any posts or places not
mentioned in this notice, all such supplies (hall be fur*
niflied at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
polls before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed oil
between the United States and the Contra&or.
The rations to be fupplicd are to consist of the fol
lowing articles, viz.
One pcund two ounccs of bread or flour.
One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounces
pork or feaeon.
Half a gill of rum, brandy or whiskey.
One quart and half a pint of felt."}
One pound of Candles, j
Ths rations are to be furnifhed in such quanting as that
there (hail at all times during the said term, b£ fofficient
for the consumption of the troops at MichiHmackicac, Dp"
troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, far the term of lix month* in
advance, and at . each of the other posts, for the term cr
at lead three months in advance, in good aad wholefoiae
provisions, if the fame shall be required. It is to be ur-
Jerflood, that the Contractor is to beat the exj-cnce ami
: ilk. ol iffun supplies to the troops at each an
that all lofTes sustained by the depredations of a*
by means of the troops of the Unlred States, shall be
for at the pric« of the articles captured or dtftroyed, ofl
the depofitioiis two or more persons of- creditable
ra<sters, and the ccrtificatc of a ccmmifiioncd olficer, a
certaining the circumstances of the loss, and the amouat
of the ai tides sot which compenfatioM fbalJ be claiaied
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
"
POINTED BY JOHN FENNO,
—No. 119 —
C H t S M W T-I T * E E T.
IPrioc Fight DoUart per Ann**]