•' V \ m ''
of the tHnitftJ o 5 P Advertiser.
Number 1280.3 - SATURDAI E; ENING, OCTOBER 15, 1796. \Vqlume X.
For Freight, or^Charter,
The Brig ZEPHYR,
Ca p t - hinchman.
This ve/Tcl is about 3 years old, staunch,
wr |j fotmdj has two decks, and is
bunhened aboui 1200 barrels: lying at firft wharf below
Cbefnut-rtreet. If not fold or chartered on or before the
soih inft.wt, she will take freight for Norfolk* For terms
apply te the captain on board, or to
SAMUEL BRECK, jun.
No. 89. south Third-ftrcet.
22 hhds. New-England RUM,
May beiiad on board said vclTcl.
Paiiad- Oftobcr 14, 1794. d6t
For Boston,
The Brig Diana, '
WW Lying at wharf; will fail I
in a few days, and take freight on mode
rate terms —for which, or pafTage, apply on board, or to
Joseph Anthony Eiff Co.
O&oicr 10. ' d 5
For Sale,
The brig FAIR AMERICAN,
Captain Richard Calley, . I
AN entire new vessel, and well finifhed J
|.)VV fl 'Sy. built at Newbury-port, (N* E.) her plank '
"**- - ' and timbers white oak : Sails well, and
is completely fitted—her dimenSons are 57 feet keel, strait
rabbit—si feet beam—B feet 8 inches hold, and 4 T-2
between docks. She is now discharging spars, near the
Still-honfe wfiarf, Southwark, and if not disposed of i« t
a few days will tje fold at public sale at the City-Tavern,
on the evening of the 1 ;th inft.— Apply to
ISAAC HARVEY, jun. \
$ South Water Street. f (
lothmo, loth. „ diw.
"" ~ ~ ~ ,'J
% h < Br, g MART, * (
Lying at Messrs. Willings and Fraricis's
' Wharf,burthen zoo Warrek, built in Philadejphia in 1793,
•f live oak and ted cedar.—She is well found, and may
feefent to fca at a small expencc. For terms apply to
Gurtiey & Smith.
o<ft. 6. « dtf.
FOR LONDON, £
The eapital ship CERES,
foen :—For freight of passage
giglsksSSsapply to DAVY, ROBERTS & Co. or
John Vaughan,
September 10. Front-flreet.
. Cc
For Charter, °et
The Danish Barque Bineventura-, «<
Samuel Stub, mailer*
.j. good vessel, of-about two lid
, tons burthen. JES6E & ROBERT WAI.N. tor
Sept. 17. dtf me
— . —... ■ , an^
!or Charter, j one
The Ship Dominic! Terry, —-
Dc Hart, master : an excellent
veflel, of about 3000 barrels burthen.
Jeffe Robert Wain.
l September it. d
Boarding and Lodging
TWO GENTLEMEN may be accommodated with
Boarding and Lodging, in a private family and pleasant
part of the city. Apply to the Printer of the Gazette of
the United States.
Qdober 11. tt&stf (
Washington Lottery.
The Twenty-eighth & Twenty-ninth days' drawing of
the Washington Lottery, No. 2, are received at the office Feb
No. 134, Market-flreet, where tickets may be examined. MiT
N. B. Information given where tickets in all the other
lotteries may be procured. ou *
O&obcr 13, 1796. d an y
— _ will
Wm. HOLDERNKSSE, _1
No. 76 High Street,
HAS received, by the latefl arrivals from Europe and
the-Eaft Indies, a well feleftcd assortment of Silk Ti
Mcrcsry, I inen Drapery and Haberdashery Goods; which
he will fell, Wholesale and Retail, on theloweft terms ; °' *
AMOMOST WHICH ARE, t' re '
Some fine India muslins embroidered with gold and fiiver t ' le 1
KuperSneßook, Jaconet, and Mulntul ditto ' ow '-
Do c!o do do Handkerchiefs "
Some extra black tafietiesjuuftringsand colored Per Cans " ittl
Bandano Handkerchiefs " m
Long and short Nankeens > " a>s
English Martuas of the firil quality " eo
Damask table linen and napkins, very fine °f
Si'.;-. H-ofiery, an elegant affortmsn't !n
Thead and cotton do " vi(
Umbrellas—green silk, oil'd do. and do cleth wl
French cambrics, very fine " ws
lrifti Linens, do. See. Sec. June I 4 5 "of
I or Sale, 'p-«
30 Hogsheads of choice New-England i«l?
Rum, the a
I.anding from the fchooncr John,atVanuxem's wharf— tU " C
For terms apply to No. 71, North Water Street atth
head of the wharf. ' ,
Jt-
Great is Truth and mutt prevail. F
JUST PUBLISHED, InC ' l
Judfor sale at No- 41 Chefnut-jlrcet by J. OR AT HO B
An Apology for the Bible,
By R. IVaTson, d. d. f. x. s ,
Br/hop of Lar.daff, Ciff. XI
Being a complete refutation of Faine's g " v
Age of Reason,
Amtl the only anUer to the Second Part. cit-
August 30. dt yj
The Members of the Society of the Sons of St. George,
eftablilhed at Philadelphia, for the advice and afiiftance of
Englishmen in distress, are reqQeflcd to attend a quarterly
' meeting of the said Soci«Ey on Monday the 24th inft.
•ne o'clock P. M. at the City Tavern.—The members art"
inch, requested to be pun<slf.al in their attendance, as the rules
1 15 and regulations of the Society are to be considered.
e A. Humphreys, Sec'ry.
erms Q,St '
Printed Calicoes.
:t. '
JOHN MILLER, jun. & COv
Have received per the William Pcnn, in addition to ;
their ewn afibr raent,
A consignment «f twenty trunks of Calicoes, ele
gant London patterns ; also a few cafe* of handsome
Buttons—Which will be fold at a (hort credit, on very
reasonable terms, by the package only.
Oil. 14. dtf
f a jl — t
On Tueftlay next -will be published,
r to By William Cobbett, opposite Chrft-Church, *
An Answer to. Paine's Rights of Man, t l
By R. Makenzie, Esq. of Edinburgh.
10 <whicb is added, f
A Letter to Citizen Swanwickj e
»t By Peter Porcupine.
' The whole is dedicated to Dosor Joseph PHeftley, ®
Fellov ef the RoyVl Society of London, Citizen of
le d America, and Deputy Eledl to the National Conven
jnlt tion of France.
ind I 4* !j
i-a Benjamin and Jacob Johnson,
the No. 147, Market-street,
i« Have received by the last arrivals from Liverpool and
■n, Hull,
A very general ajforiment of DRY GOODS, p
Wellfuitedte the approaching which they will
fell on the leweli terms by the piece or pavkage.
Oiftsber 14. taw4w g
■The Cargo of the Polacrelndependent, in
/CAPTAIN CATHCART, from Alicant and Lif
v_>( bon, landing at the fubferibers wharf— l
; 5 > s a 8 Pipes of Brandy
~ 18 Bales of Spanish wool ~
jy 3 do. of Annifeed
7000 Bushels of best Lisbon Salt
80 Boxes of Lemons
For sale by WILLTNGS & FRANCIS.
ALSO,
Seventy Hogsheads of prime JAMAICA SUGARS,
received by the ship Dominick Terry, Capt. De Hart, Jj
from Kingston.
Sept. 13r- d
Loft last Evening, t0
At Richetts's Amphitheatre, (supposed to be taken by th<
some villain out of a gentleman's pocket)
A red Morocco-Leather POCKET-BOOK, _
— Containing about 185 dollars in banknotes; three notes
of hand of Rofs and Simfon, No. 304, 305 and 306, da
ted nth last August, payable 60 days after'date, to the xh
«rder of Paul Siemen, together for $ 150 dollars; an order
of Mrs. Ann N acpher.'on, from Paul Siemen, 011 Lach
j iin Mac Neal, Efq.at Port-au-Prince,for ioodollur* ; be- .
L . fides several letters and papers of no use but to the proprie- /
tor. The notes oi hsui<J and order arc without rnaoric
ment. EIGHTY DOLLARS REWARD is offered to j
any person v/ho will dilcaver and secure the thief, and
r FOR FY DOLLARS for only bringing the above menti
oned notes and papers at No. 129, corner of Front and
Mulberry streets. Qfl. n.
lt just Imported,
Tin Plates in boxes
Sheet and bar Lead
Shot—all sizes, paten" and oonimon , ]
Copper bottoflis and flicets
Engiiih Ihoes and boots in cases
Taunton Ale in caflcs of 10 doz. each
Baflcet Salt
, Wool Ca<ds
Gold Watches.
j For Safe by
Simon Walker, e <
Oil. 7. mwfim Dock-street. — :
" NOTES LOST. ~
IT rnEREAS two notes drawn by Benjamin Haikell
lf VV and George W. Kirkland, dated Boston, the 24th
e ryary, 1796, payable to Joseph May, or order, in 18
mamlis after date, one for One Thousand Dollars the A
r other Fifteen Dollars, were stolen with some other papers
out of a trunk on the Lancaster road lt is requelh d that
any person to whom they may be offered for negociation
will give notice thereof to the fubferiher.
GARRETT COTTRINGER.
3°- ' ttstf
Na 1521 "
D'jlriß of Pennsylvania, to wit ;
T> H it remembered, that on the seventeenth day of Sep-
XJ 'ember, in the twenty- rft year of the independence
°[ t r he , Umted States of America, William Mitchell, of
tliL .aid diftr:(ft, deposited in this office the title of a book
the right wheteof he claims as author, in the Words fol
lowing, to wit:
« A new and complete system of book-keeping, by ah ° htfl
" ™ 1 ?, rOV e,hod * f d ? U V e entr y- ada P ted retail, do
„ '' c ,»- rei o" lu » "h'bitmg a variety of tranf
aaions wl*n usually occur in business. The whole
" c ° m P rifed in th t ee lets of books; the last set being a copy
of the ftcond, accordiag to those lyftems most generally
in use, is given m order to exhibit, by a comparative
i view, the advantages of _he system »ow laid down- To '
„ whlch 15 a , ddcd - a tablc ®f the duties payable on goods,
.< war " and nierchandife imported into the United States
of America. Ihe whole in dollars and cents. sets.
" By William Mitchell."
In conformity to the adt of the Congref, of the United
State, mtituled," An act for the encouragement of learn
ii.g, by fecunng tl )e copies of maps, charts and books to July
tl.e authors and proprietors of Aich copies, during the ■
tunes therein mentioijed." ° c
SAMUEL CALDWELL, di, dift.
had T 'of B th Ti ß a tf V || B ° ok ' S "° W P ub,ifted / a " V «t a "'ay hi Wi
— the jookfellers Ofloberj. . 4Wl aw the c
Plans of the city of PhiJadelphi.i T o "''
Including tteNoRTHERN Liber T i ES ail) j S J"
SOUTHWARK,
Pirfilifhcd, and fold by '
benjamin davies,
- No 1 . 68, High Hreet, T 5
T .. TO , . (Pnce one dollar.) *-
i LIS plan is 26 inche square, and 0
graved by one of the firft artifl t ' he cltv f rol l " Ce
and accurate furvev. Parchaf-s 1 for z
phlet With each plan, z
ci,y.i„p.^- f ""
' ,tc&ftf Ph
*
Z S oi A GO O D HOUSE,
rtcrlv FOR SALE,
id. t; THE subscriber, intent on moving to the country,
rs are offers for file, the HOUSE in which he now relides.— .
ruies Its healthy and beautiful fituation,oppofite the gardens H
of Bingham, needs neither cettiment oreulagiura.
ry. Pofiefli,on will be given on or befoi e the 15 th cf the
ensuing month.
— THOMAS TINGEY,
No. 121, South 3d Street.
ffe lai also fir Sa!;* tc
A fftiollhandfome aifortment of work'd and plain 01
INDIA ML..LINS, which he difpefe of realm- a'
n to ably. dtf. Oflober 10. v '
ju
Lottery and Broker's Office, ™
very foutk Srccnd street. fa
r 2 'ICKETS in the Ckmal Lottery, No. 2, for fale—n
X Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
—- the late lottery. ( , O
Cheek Books kept for examination and for
the City of Washington, No. 2, and Pattefon Lotteries
Si! nre now drawing—information wher"e
5 ! tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
examination.
The fubferiher solicits the application of the public j!
tley, his f r^en d c ., who wish to pufchafe or fell Bank Stock, °
n of Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands, f 0!
ven . c - or to obtain money on ctepofit of property. y
*** Also 1 icketa in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for i Gn
sale at J en each, which will be drawn early in I
the Spring. I ro<
Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, Avguji 18, >796. mth (fee
and " * ; I nil
UNITED STATES, \ rr ed
Pennsylvania DiftriiSt. J JU' lanI an
Wl. NOTICE is hereby given, that purfuarat to a writ
to me, dirtfltSd from the honourable Richard Peters, Uv
Esq. y-üßg?-of the Diftria Court of the tfhited States. aK ,
n {. in and for the Pennlylvania Diftrifl, will be fold at in
Lif. P u hlic faie, at the Custom-House floras, in Front, kelcw jhs
Walnut-ftrect, on Monday the 24th ink. at la o'clock I rot
at noon. j f ro
THIRTY BAGS COFFEE, lu<
The fame having been libelled aeainft, profeetitcd, and an.
condemned as forfeited in the fai.l Diilrifl Court | abt
WJLLIAM NICHOLS, Marshal. r «
Office, Bth of Oilober, 1796. 1 'ha
" For Sale,
By J. IfVARDER, PARKER & Co.
An Invoice of Cordage, and
CanCfling of different Szcs, from 12 inch cables down I '»cl
to rope of 2 inches, of different lengths: Imported in I i'hi
by the ship Swift, from Hull, and entitled to drawback. per
&pt -17 dtf the
sa e - Sales of India Goods.
til Cargo D f the ship Gangas, capt. Tingey, from Cal
cutta and Bengal, j
CONSISTING OF I .
,V* A Lar S e an d gcseralaffortment of Bengal and Madras ! —
£ CO r i ON and yfLK GOODS.
AMQJJx; wmci
nd " variety fine worked and plain Muslins,
ti- Dorcas, 13V. Also, «j
nd A Quantity of f Excellent Sugar, wh^
_ In boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER, N
Fc)r Sale by j i
Willings Francis,
No. 21 Penn Street.
June g , §_
Nankeens,
Of the firjl quality, FOR SALE Rr, 4(
RD. and JAS. POTTER.
For any quantity above Five Thousand Pieces, a li- r,
beral credit will be given. R. &J. p. |
September 13. ' T tf
,70,000 Pieces Nankeens, AI /
11 Of the befl quality and on reasonable terms, W
■ h U FOR sale BV A ls o
8 Phi lip Nicklin Sis Co. leav<
le August 26. ' dt f their
l Philip Nicklin Sc~Co. |
hafe for sale, , 0
Souchong ~ I .''7"
Hyson Skin ) j "
Young Hyson I FRESH TEAS be at
llyfon and \ I q
" Imperial •'
e Yellow Nankeens I
'f China Ware, assorted in Boxes and CheGs tt
-> Q'.iiekfilver I j-j
" chests BaHdinn ° Harw3kerchiefs of "cellcnt quality ia Brift,
' London Market } MADEIRA WINE I '111
London particular pipes, & iFC
iJJar^ ar ! cet . 3 quarter cask»
, Fenenfie Wine in pipes and hogfkeads
Sugar Candy by the Box
Sail Canvas No. ia 8 I r " .
\ - Lead in fheet9 j tat i? r
, 3 Casks of Cutlery assorted I Mah
' fete i fe rl T C^ft3l^M la f hefter Ported thick- forrr,
lets, cords, striped Nankscns, &c. j Sep
3 Small packages of black fewine r filks
f 8 Tierces Virginia Snake-root. I tj
Nails assorted in calks 1
. I jJ_ mw&f
Wanted to Rent, 1
A convenient, well fimi/hed. Bed Chamber, To
the dtt a The 5 e r P in an ;liry and health )' of
f'V- Ihe rerfon whe wants to rent fyh „ I
would have no objection to ttfard, or brcakfaft only, wi t h The "
the family occupying the house, as may be moil agreeable
Apply to the printer, « a reeaDie. |j e r
September 20. I Urii
— 2- taw I g
take notice. —-
rHErabfcriber intends to make application for a re- By
loft ofX rr foUoT/1! *ertificate, fupnofed to br
ft on the passage to England in April 1794 : -pi
for »8-o C d»ll I0 ,«5. dated ijth November, 170, Tfii
»Oi ZSjO dollars and 02 «»cnts Sir r»rt- j
Philadelphia, *<*»
*
's.l! A few pipes of Madeira Wine, Brt
dens boar<3 the schooner Lucy, Capt. Prows, atNiv, ( f nut .
uin. " rect whirl, and for file by the fubferiber. \
the Robert Andrews,
o<ft. 14. rnwt No. 86, So. Wharve*
iet. The Subscriber requelts every Man
to whom he fiands indebted, to meet at the CityTave-a
lain on Thurfdsy -''tcrnooji, at fguk o'clock, frecisklv,
sim- a> be wiffi,viti tl.t: •course of-rhe tveniftg, to con
vince every imeartiu man he moans to dp him flrift
justice. He will personally attend and bring his books
with him, and fee, ptepared to m ike luch propofaU to hi!
creditors, as will, he hopes and flatters hirtifelf, he fatif
faa°r)'- GEORGE MEADE,
—a Fonrth-ftreet, Philad. 14th Oftali-r. 1796,
' n On Sa urday, the 22nd inliaat, at 6 o'clock in tha
'for eveigng, will be fold by Public Vendue, at the City
-ie'£, Tavern, (if not before disposed of at private sale)
>ere An Elegant House, No. 78-.
Z" /« ikaltiuijlrti t f
for WHICH is twenty-five feet front by one hundred and
seventy-one feet deep, with a lot adjoining, 20 1-2 feet
blic wide 72 feet 8 inchcs de q>—(This lot is back 01 the
>ck, house occu P icd b y George Willing, Efq.-f The house is
ids' com P ktel y in evel 7 refpeiS. It is fifty feet deep,
' has two large pnriours, the front one 24 feet, the back,
for ona 22 feet by 18 1-2 feet; a handfoine drawing-room
•inl 44 feet 24 fcet - The rOB ITS below, the drawing
room and chambers adjoining, have mahogany doors,
I and these, as well as the rooms ?beve them, hj.ve a com-
I munication with cach other. The iieighth in the fir It and
i I second stories is twelve feet, and have ltoco cornices, and
— I nine rooms up-ftairs besides the garrets, which are d'ivid
led into three roomti a good kitchen, wath-boufe, milk
I and Ivathing-houfes, a large ice -house, a pump in the yaru,
. j and a three feet three inch alley that leads into Fourth
■'rit llreet. The cellars are laid with lime, 'and floored with
;rs, I two inch plank, and plastered. ihe yard is weii paved
:es- j and the house is clear of ground-rent. Two brick tallies
at J in Walnuc-ftreet, with two coich-hi uf«s; one of theia v.ill
csv J hold two carriages the other one. The smallest fcaulc hag
ick < room for three, the largest for four horses. It is 21 feet
j ii-ont on Wainut-ilreet, by 30 feet 3 inches deep. They
have excellent lofts over them. I'he building is arched
,nd j af, d laid with lime add two inch plank, ancf will hold
j about one hundred pipes of wiua ; is clear of ground
j rent, and has the privilege of an ij and 1-2 feet alley
1 that leads into Fifth-ftreet.
— I Also, a large, Brick Store, 33 feet-front on Fourtfr-
I I'.reet, by 50 feet deep, wbich might, at,a small expeaee,
j be turned into a handsome dwelling house, having been
'0. jf° CQnt rived in the building. It has a yard, 48 leet 6
j inches deep, by 24 feet wide ; has a ram water pamp,
I and other conveniences; and the cellar is laid with two
vn I inch plank, and is now rented at,4o dollars per month,
in I his building ufubjedtoa ground-rint ol »i 3.4 d«llir»
I per annum. Purchasers before the sale may apply t»
the fubferiber, GEORGE MEADE,
I Or R. FOOTMAN, & Co. Au&ioncers.
I Odtober 14. J
University of Pennsylvania,
I Odober 5, 1796.
The Medical LetSlures will commence the 'firft Monday
in November. , aw . w
FOR SALE.
PORT WINE, and
j HOLLAND GIN, of the firft qualities in Pipey,
J FRAUNCES and VAN REED,
Brokers and Commiflioh Merchants, No. 63,30. 3d St,
Who discount approved NOTES of hand.
N. B. An APPRENTICE Wanted.
September 14. m^f
for sale by the fubicribers, '
IN PENN-STREET, ,
130 quarter Chests frelh Hyson Tea;
j ieo ditto do. frefh Souchong Tea;
I 300 Boxes Chjna, containing ftnall tea setts of M
I pieces;
j 400 pieces Bandanoes.
WUlings Francis.
January 30
Loll, last Evening,
AT RJCKETTS'S AMPHITHEATRE*
A new, red Morocco Potket-Book,
With sundry Papers of no value except to-he owner—
Also, about Fifty Dollars in Ban* Notes Whoever wilt
eave the fame at this Office fiull receive the fconey for
their trouble, and no queftior.s aflced.
October 13.
A Young Woman
OF unexceptionable and who has been
brought up genteely, « ouldbe willing to engage in
a deaent family zschambermaid, andaffip. in sewing, &c.
A line left at the Printers hereof directed to A B will
be attended to,
° a - ,t " ' d«.
Thomas RynTon
TTAS just received, by the (hip, Molly and Hamburg
! , e ! ° m Llver P° o1 ' and the Light Horse from
1 Briltol, and is now opening f«r fate, at his Sore No.
I 177, Market-street, an extensive alTortment of
t Ironmongery, Cutlery,' Hardware
and Saddlery.
™ C Ca r °line, now on her pafTage from Liverpool
to Philadelphia, brings the remainder of his fall impor
j tation. , 1
. . N - B ' At '¥ aboTe store ma >' be had - a few eieganc
Mahogany Cases for Table Fornuure ; also, a K ood af
iftrtment of the best kinds of Knives and Forks
Sept- *3- d
| ~ THIS DAT 1S PUBLISHED
By W. YOUNG, MILLS and Son,
Corner of Second and Chef nut Jlreets,
Price 13 i-2 cent.,
The Preficknt's \ddrefs
To the People of the United States,
I IRTIMATItoG
I The resolution be has farmed to decline being considered
among tne numbe-r of thofc out of whom a choice is to
Umg ° leai ° n ° f a Prefidcnt of the
I Sept. 20. V ,
J ws 6
DAT SUBLIShhD, ~
I By J. ORMROD, No. 41, Chefnat-ftreet,
( p "ce is 1-3 Cents)
The Preside nt's Address
T" the People of the United State.,
Announcing his intention of retiring from rublie r.'f.
z&nr*-"""
SefUmbtr
' ' \ ■ . "• •PRICES CU k R E NT,
Philadelphia, O<ft. 15.
ttR C*NTS.
Doll:. Cts. Dtllr Cts
iNCHORS, pr.lb. %d, tod, 11 J,
\ V,m, .lit yis. an* 10d, per lb. '' Ij
flitri, Rotb, fr lb 11 Nutmegs, per lb. II
■ifies, pot p cr t*>r X ?° Oil, linseed, per gall. 133
IJO Olive,
%*.:rcr f , per gallon, ditto, per cafe\ 9
flicon, Shoulder, pr. lb. 10 —Siuee!, befl, in
Flitchet, 13 p er & 9X 9 10
'_7 r;:<riv, common,
160 j '-ditto bajkets, I a
. — • '■'■ • ConTiU, 1 IS battles, 7
JBr/iriltttO) far ton, 90 ■■ —Spermaceti pr «tll 106
■ rich, ser J\f. 7 '' "•'Train,per bbl. 18
' read, {hip, per c*jt. 6 'Whale, per gal, 40
- pilot 9 5° P»rtcr per cajte, 7 30
Ditto, /mall uattr d'oz. 250
fer ke&, 90 American do. boh.
1 B*rr, American, in hot- i*ch 1
fin, p;r dozen, bot- Pitch, per bbl, 4
lie, included, • I 60 Pori, Burlington, per
per barrel, 6 barrel, 19 /a 13
beards y CedarferMfeet 30 Lorver county, 19
Heart, 30 -Carolina, 16
New England ,16 80 jP«w, Albany, pr 93
-Gal, # a 6 Pepper, per lb. 38
" LMerchantable pine, 1% Pimento, 14
A. iS Raiftns, bejlper ieg II
Mahogariy,pr foot Ditto per jar, 6
above are the jhallop Ditto per box ?
prices, /or the yard Rice, per civt. 5
jfrr/Vf, add I dollar, Rofk per barrel 4 50
$$ cents, fir M. Rum, Jamaica, pr gal. I 67
Britnjlonc in rolls, fer ■■■ ■■ 'Antigua I 44
fwt. * 33 —-—Windivard I 40
Berf,BoJlon, per bll.lsa I<s I 17
Country, ditto 14 Country, N. E. 97
l FreJh, cibt. $to 8 Saltpetre, per civt. 50
Butter per lb. 18 a 20 Safjafras, per ton
'—. i/t jfepo-/ 14 Shot, ditto, 120
•Candles Sperm, per lb. Steel, German, per lb. 14
•———./ rax —Englijh,blif.pr ctvt. 12 14
' Myrtle Vfax 10 —American, per ton 133 33
— Mould iall.iv 18 /« 19 —Crowley's,pr faggot
—r- Dipped I 3 rao/, lb. 33
Cheese, Engliff,ptr lb. 18 Son/, brown per lb. 12
— CWrj II a 13 —White 14
■Chocolate *S S 33 22
Cinnamon 66 Starch 14
■Cloves I 30 Snuff,pr dm btilla 30
Cikoi, ter tint. 18 Spermaceti refined pr lb.
'Coffee, per 11. 14 to 16 Sail cloth, Englifb. N't.
Coal, per bujhel, 30*40 1, per yard, x ' J 3
Copperas, per civt. 3 Bolhn, No. J, do. $0
Cordage, American, per , ■ —No.i,do.
exvt. 16 a 18 Sugar, lump, per lb. 13
Catto*, per lb. 33 <» 30 — Loaf, Jingle res. 17 .
-Currants 1° D ; 0 double ditto
Duck, Russia, per piece, IC alB Havannah, -white 10
Ravens II 3° " 1 Ditto broivn 16
Dutch Sail Duel 14 —Mufeovadop.civt Half 67
Feathers, per lb. 66 1 — Eajl India, pr.
Flax, ditto II civt. 14 66
F/ax/eed, per bujicl I Sp. Turpentine pr gall. 66
Flour, Sup. per bl. II 30 Salt, allum, pr bujhell 60
Common s 10 3® Liverpool 3*
—Bur middVings, betl\ 93° -—Cadiz 60
* Meal, Indian 4 £5*66 —Lijbon 56
. . ditto Rye, 3 building IV. 0.
Shipjiuffpet. 367 frames per ton 12 67
per ton, 13 >lUa Live Oai, 26
Gin, Holland per cafe, 30 Do. Red Cedar pr foot
Do. per gall. I 40 Shingtis 18 inches,pr I
Glut', per lb. t 18 M, 4
Ginger,'xuhite race,pfcwtlZ. Ditto % feet 9
Ditto, common 16 Ditto 3 feet dressed 16
Ditto, ground 14 Staves, pipe pr 1000, 6b
Ginseng, * per lb. 30 nuhitc-oakhogshead 43 33
' Gut.poivder, cannon,per ——Red-oai diflo 28
qr. caff, 13 1 Leogan 16 33
Ditto, fine glazed, 18 —r —Barret 30
Grain, Wheat pr hujh 1 Heading 44
Rye, I Skins Otter, be/lpr piece 3 33
■; Oats, 40 —Minks 26
Indian Corn, 90 i 93 —Fm, grey 19 to 34 i
—Barley, I 20 —Ditto red, I 20
——bejljbcliedpr.lb. —Martins ~'C |
Buckiubeat per —Filers 37
buff el, "73 —*Bea ye 3
Mams, pr. lb. J3 —Racoons 60 1
//W/, imported, per —Mujl-r*!), 37 I
to:, 300 —Beaver, per lb. I 64 |
American, perlb. IO —Deer, in hair 25 «33
-Herrings, ptr bbl. 6 Tar, 3a gall.
Hides, raw pr. lb. 8 #<9 P er
Flops, 10 —Carolina, $lgall. 130 '
'HogUcji loops per M. 30 Turpentine, per bbl. 310 <
Indigo, 'French per lb. IJJ Tobacco, J. River heft ■
-e-Carotifia, I 100lb. 7 i 8 ,
Irons, fad per ton 133 33 Petcrfbtirg 6a6 JO .
-trim, cajmigs per c-.ot. 4 —Potowmac 3a J
Pennfylv.bar scarce Georgia 6a 7
120*12667 *Carolina 4 a J I
■—-Ruffa per ton 97 Tea Hyson, per lb. Ito 1 (
32 —Hyson Jlin, 83
Sheet, *24 33 —Sore.-hong, l<l 13
■ -Nail rods, 133 33 —Co*g\ 30 ;
per-trwt. 5 —Bohca, 33 I
•Lard, hogs per lb. 14 Tallow, reffad, perlb. I 4 .
Lead in pigs, ptr civt. f33 Tin, per box 16 JO ; ]
—in bars, 7 faniila, peril. 20-a 24
labile, 13 33 Verdigreesfe, do. I
r«/, 9 Per million, 1 50
Leather, foal per lb. 20 Far nifty, per gallon, ;
Ligttam vita perlon, 24 Bees, per lb. .33 ,
4J Whale-bone, long,pr lb. 12 .
Mice, per'lt. IO Wine, Madeira pr p. 226
Mackarel, befl per bbl 12 Liffon, 126
-second quality 8 4——Teneriffi,prgal. 80 *
Madder, bejlper lb. 20 —Fayal, 67 (
Marble wrought pr foot 60 ——Port per pipe IJO »
spars ditto 60 Do. in bott.pr dox
M<*iff IS,, per gall. j6a6l Claret,per off 4010.50
Mustard, per lb. 46 Sherry, ter gallon I JO
' "foitr, in bottles dbz. 1 20 —Malaga, 84 :
per dozen, 1 stO \
Just Landing, i
At South Jrrct wharf, from in loard the flip Sedg- 1
ley, Captain Htdgt, from St. Peterfiurj, j
The following Goods : 1
Rr.ffia Sail Dack, firft quality. '
Do. Sheeting do. 1
Do. Diaper. /
-I/O. Hr.ckaback. ' j
Do Crash.
i '00. Mould Candles, 4, J and' 6, to the sb. of the 1
Jlnglilh size. '
00. White Candle Tallow. * t
Do- White Sotp in fmafl boxes. ,
L'o. Cordage of fine yarn.
ravens Duck. ,
ffiughft, ifl and and fort.
?lo?fe Hair uncurled. 1
Rulfia Bar Iroti. ' 1
Do. Hoop Iroa. i
'Do. Kail Root. (
30 Tons Oakum and junk.
ft. Peterfbarg Clean Kemp.
For Stle by I
Philips, 5c Co. 1
DJleber 12.
the gazette of the united states.
x No. 11.
A FEW comments on T. Jefferfon't very ridi
culous and elaborate attempt to that the
' ncgrots art an inferior rait of animals, will place in
a just light the philtjophical merits of the aathor :
3 The /arxgoing paflage has been felefted because it
it among those which have been mod admired by
the author's friends.
Firll we sbferve an affected anxiety to emanci
pate the negroes of Virginia, why, " in order to
vindicate the liberty of the human race;" but this
commendable zeal prffently yields to a more inte
-5 . resting anxiety " to preferye the b;auly of the hu
man race."
0 To extricate himfelf from the embarraffmsnt in
-0 tc which he is thrown by the confliSing desires of
0 " vindicating the liberty of the human race," and
" prefervifig its beauty," he hits on the notable ex
pedient of emancipatiHg all the slaves of Virginia,
and then inilantly fhippttig them off, like a herd of
black cattle, the Loriknows where. The desire
of preserving the beauty of the human race pre
j dominates, however, in the mind of our philofu
-8 pher j for notwithllanding the Dave* are to enjoy a
4 momentary freedom, they arc fuddenlv after to be
seized, bound, packed on board vefiels, andagainll
their consent exported to f»Me less friendly regions,
where they might be all murdered or redaced to a
3 more wretched (late of flavery.—Soch are the no»
7 ble and enlarged views of philosophical politicians!
4 But some juftificatinn mult be given for the latter
. part of this emancipatiag and merciful project :
It was neceflary therefore to prove thtt the blacks,
(whose emancipation was requiSte to vindicate the
liberty of the human race,) were not in fa«t of the ,
hufnan rttee, for N this must be the author's meaaing,
' if there be any meaning in his work, for the idea
5 of two or more human races, a black human race, 1
and a white human race, is too abfuid even for
1 him to have suggested ;it is tme his exprefliensare '
1 so vague and contradi&ory that it is difficult to
t ascertain very precisely his meaning, but taking
t the whole together, it results in thu, that the i
> blacks are a peculiar race of animals below man and 1
above the eran outang, a kind of tertium quid, a 1
( high kind of btute, hitherto undefcribed. I am
3 at a loss to annex any other rcfult to the following '
expressions and observations, viz.—" The real dif
; tinftions which natare has made"—a difference in '
' ' the two races"—comparing the preference which 1
the blacks have for the whites to the preference of 1
; the or an outang for the black women—secreting less 1
t by the kidnies, and more by the glands of the 1
skin than the \vh'ites—difference of ftrudtifre in the '
\ pulmonary apparatus—being in reason much infe- '
rior to the whites—-different species of the Amt
t genus, or varieties of the fame fpeciee---their ex
-3 iHence participating more of sensation than .reflec
-5 tion—gradations in the different races of animals.
The confulion of ideas which pervaded the un
-1 derftanding of our author through the whole of
this very ingenious and learned dissertation mult be
manifeft. At one moment he is anxious to eman
cipate the blacks, to vindicate the liberty of the
human race—at another he difco«ers that the hlarks
are of a different race ftom the human race, and
; therefore when emancipated they must be inilantly
removed beyond the reach of mixture, lead he (or
! (he) should Jlain the blood of his (or her) mailer,
not recoile&ing what from his situation and other
; circumstances he ought to have recollected—that
; this mixture, may take place, while the negro re
j mains in slavery : he mud have seen all around him
> fufficient mirks of this flaining of blcod to have
' been convinced that retaining them in slavery would
not prevent it, and he must have been that
, the mixture would not be the less degrading from
r the emancipated late of the black. At another
moment he discovers that the blacks are indeed a
! part of the race, but than they are a differ
ent species of the fame genus, or they and the
j whites constitute varieties of the fame species. In
> one ptace he asserts with confidence " that thc-y
are in reason mucfc inferior to the whites jn ana
} ther he seems to'doubt it ;•" this difference of co
lour and perhaps of faculty;" to jnftify the eman.
ci pat ion of the blacks, they are made a part of the
human race, to jullify their emancipation, they are
classed with the brutes.
f But the molt extraordinary of all the felf con*
traductions of this phitofopltcr is found in a letter
; ! written, while secretary of Hate, to a negro named
t . Benjamin Banneier, which letter having a dose re
' lation to this fubjsdt may very propeily be here
introduced.
> We have seen from the above quotations that our
author was decidedly of opinion—j ft That there
t was a fixed difference in nature between the whites
1 and blackb—ad That this amounted td a diftinfti
on, conllituting the blacks a different race—3d That
, the blacks were in reason much inferior to the whites,
r their existence participating more of sensation than '
' reflexion—4th That this inferiority was evidently '
not produced by their condition, but by nature.
( The negro Benjamin was the reputed author of
( an Almanac, which was either dedicated to or sent,
with forae complimentary epistle, to his brother
author, our philosopher, whose philosophy was of
so pliant a quality that, ioltantly forgetting all his
• learned discoveries on the skin and f?arf skin and 1
kidnies of ths unsavory Afiicans he fat down and
wrote to brother Benjamin a fraternizing epistle, in '
which he rejoices to find that nature has given to
his black brethren talents equal to those of other co
lours, and that the appearance of a want of them,
is owing merely to the degradedcondition of their ex
, iftence, both in Africa and Ameiica." He then
adds his wifhe* for the speedy emancipation of the i
negroes in the United States, asfaft as circumstances 1
will admit. Here we find a direS and flat contra- c
diaion to all his assertions ob this fubjeft in his Notes;
from which we must infer, either that that work a
was compiled with so much inaccuracy, and such t
want of information or refleflion, that the mofttri- t
vial circumstance was fufficient to induce him so t
contradict ir» contents himfelf, or that.he was so I
influenced by a ridiculous vanity, so tickled by a a
filly compliment'from an unsavory animal of an in- r
, fertor race, as wilfully and publicly to contradict,
without any (hame or regard to public dcccncy, his t
i.l former afferrions, ft ill believing them to he we!!
founded. Hi 3 panegyrist may chobfe from the a
bove alternatives, that which maybe the leail inju
rious to his friend. He will probably attempt to
i- vindicate the philosopher by introducing his canior
ie Avhich led hire to recant an error. The wonderful
in produ&ion of Brother Benjartiin, he will fay> has
•; convinced him of the untruth of his former do&riije.
it But this apology will not do ; bceaafe the Aotes on
iy Virginia prove our philosopher had fcen the
• -uted works of other lilaeks, at leafl equal in
n'trit to Brother Benjamin's, and had fuggelled,
to that they were the production of fame white person,
is falfelf attributed to the negro. He had fully con
e- fidered and discussed this fubjeft : this appears from
j. the preseding quotations; but to leave no room for
doubt on this point, a further quotation (hall be in
n. ferted. Our author, hi his great zeal to support
as his doctrine of the inferiority of the race of the blacks,
id proceeds thus to the proof : " Thejr are in reason
c- much inferior to the whites; as, 1 think, one could
a, fearcely be found capable of tracing and compre
){ hending the ir.veftigatiorts <if Etidid ; in intagina
•c tion, rhey are dull, tasteless and anomalotis. Many
have been brought up to the handicraft arts ; some
have been liberally educated and all (in America)
a have lived in ceuntries where the arts and sciences
ie arc cultivated to a considerable degree, and had
(I before thetr eyes fa triples of the belt works from
abroad. The indians, with no advantages of this
a Irfnd, will often caive figures on their pipes, not
>. deft it utt of design and merit; they will crayon eit
I an animal, a plant, or a country, foasto p/ove the
;r existence of a germ rn their minds, wfiicW only
: wants cultivation. They aftoni/h you with strokes
8) of the mod sublime oratory, such as prove their
e reason and sentiment strong, their imagination
e glowing and elevated : but never yet could I find,
r, that nblaci had ujtercd a thought above the level of
( plain narration—never fee even an elementary trait
• t of painting and sculpture. Leve is the peculiar
, r ostrum of the poet : their love is ardent; but it
e kindles \hc sense only, not the imagination. Reli
-0 gionj indeed, has produced a Phillis IVhsdtly, but
g it could not produce a poet. The compolltions
c published under her name, are below the dignity of
d criticism. Ignatius Sanchi has approached nearer
„ to msnt in his compoiition : Though we admit him
n the firft place among thofc of his own colour, who
g have presented thenafelvcs to the public judgment;
yet, when we compare him with the writers of the
i, race among wh6m he lived, and particularly with
h 'he epistolary class, iji which he has taken his own
(land, we ate compelled to enroll him at the bottom
"s <f the column. This o*iticifm supposes the letters
c published under his name, to be genuine, and to
e have recttved amendment from no other hand, points
.. which •wou'd not he easy of invejfigation, (furpiifing
t the fame refieftiotis did not oqctir refpefting Bei«ja
. min, the almanac-maker!) The improvement of the
- blacks, in body and mind, in thefiifl injlance of their
mixture with the whites, has been observed by every
. one, and proves, that their inferiority is not the rffeft
t mcr 'b °f deir condition of life. Among the Romans,
t their flaws were often their rarrjt artifls ; they ex.
_ celled too in science, infomuph as to be utually em
c ployed as tut./rs te th-ir mafte.V children. Epic
s tetus, Terence and Phcedrus were ilavri; but they
J wirt of the race of •whiter. It is not their condition,
y then, hut n.'.tvrs, which has produced the diftinftion."
r F.om the above it is evident, that he had well
~ examined this fubjeft, and that his direfland Profs.
r contradiction of all this do&rine, so soon after,
t fpiung entirely from a ulifh to acquire a little popu
•- lari, y Wltfl tfle free HCgroes. No other solution can
, be given. What mult we now think of i philofo
e pher, who, in one publication, afTeru '« it to be
1 P r ™ d > that inferiority of the blacks it not the
t effedt merely of their condition of life, but a diflinc
n " on o J ra " produced by nature;" and in another,
r " at " " owin g W<rely to the degraded can
a dition of their existence." Did he flatter himfclf
that his letter to Banneker would escape pfiblica
c tion, and only be handed round among the free
a who probably never had read his Notes, or
P it they had, would forgive the pafl injury, on tc
- count of ,llc P'.efent recantation > Did he hepe
thus ,o escape deteaion, and then artfully t9 ob
- J. a,n ,ht tharaderof a great and sagacious pbilo
e ropher with the friends of negro slavery, while he
e would be rewarded with the plaudits of the aboli
tion Wt.es and free negroes ?—Whit (hall we
. think of a secretary of Jl,ate thus frattrnixir.,g with
r negroes, writing them complimentary epi/tles, ftil
j ing t cm his black brethren, congratulating them on
the evidences of their genius, and a {Turing th C m of
e wLf fl thf j r fpced >' 'mancipation;
what must the nuzens of the southern slates, par
r ticularly, whofc llavcs are guaranteed to th em as
e property by the couftituiion and taws of the
IIT K U r CS la r k "! 8 f«ret*ry of tki United .
■ ™' "hose peculiar/Juty it was to watch over
t the tnterefts ot evety part of the Union, who at
, c ha " rd of the primary nit«re(ts of these states
n promulgates his approbation of a lpeedy emanci'
such a cam!,date for the officc of president of the
f United States ?-What will they fay to thc£7^,v
, ° f e /°" ll ' er " who (hall be f 0 entirely re
r gatdlefsof the interests future peace and tran- '
{ qu.lljty of their count.y as to vote for such a per- '
s lon. But th.s fubjeft, from its importance, requires
3 a further confutation. ,
1 PH OCION t - X 1
» *• • " ''
> Latest Foreign Intelligence, !
'Br THS rXANXUH. ,
ROME, July go.
' AlK in " t de P 3rturf ° f tbe Fr «ch princefles for ,
: Albano, the ancient arms of Franco have been ta. I
5 ken downfrom theirphce, as well as ftom every i
- other public place in this city.
; _ The late penitentiary processions were efcotted bv l
: a numerous body of treops, and attended by more i
. than 40,0c0 person,. These public ads of devo!
' t ! on ar ® fa ' d have Succeeded in allaying animoft
. ties to such. a degree, that several Sre-arms, dagger'- i
> &c. have been deposited and h.ng upon the flu ri ' |
i and on this account they are to be continued feve! I
- ral days longer. j
, Even the envoy of hi. halinef.. p ],ys his part in
s thu Italiaa trag,-comedy. On hearing the . ;<• -| <
4
rell nes of Wi-.rrtfer, He flopped all conference wii
a- the dire&jry, pretending that his pojv et6 w erc Do j
ju- fufficient. £ince the defeat of that general, h
10 modestly renewed hit solicitations for a peace. Th-4
!or rpoftolic Nuncio should, however, be told " t) la j
ful his million is not of this world." We do not
las fact, make war against the pope, but againlt 'the
#e. king of the Romans.
on The individuals who raised the infurre&ion at
he Cape-Francois, when general Laveaux was impri
in foned, are arrived at Bayonne. They are fourteen
:d, in number, iucladisg their general, Vilatte They
>n, are confined in the citadel un;il further orders (hail
>n- arrive.
•m Piince Borghefe has arrived here from Naples
: or with a considerable contribution towards the ex
in- pence* of the war. Other feudatory loros are ex
jrt pe&ed in the fame manner.
is, The inveftigatian of the miracles and heroic vir.
R on tues of St. Benedia Joseph Labre, having term ;_
ild nated, his body has been taken tip, and temcmd
•e- in the presence of feveial cardinals, prelates and
ia- Other nobility.
ne < DARMSTADT, August 9.
a ) The French have now ceaf-d to treat us with
:es raildnefs. On oQr country, .which is other wik
ad fuificiently burdened with debt, a contribution of
m 5,000,000 livres has teen imposed. GinfTeri with
lis itsdiflrifts, is to pay 150,000livres. Bur.it being
ot inipoflible immediately to taife so large a sum, tlic
,t French have sent fiat petfons of diltin&Lu as hof.
le tages to Strasbourg.
ly i'he republicans also l«vy heavy contributions on
es other countries and difiriftn. Nafllu Dillenburg is
ir pay 1 So,coo livres j the county of Hacken
>n tutg, 90,000 ; ar.d Wetzlaer, 80000 livres. The
d, county of Witgcnftein Berlenbiirg, though com
as proinifed in the line of demarcation, is alfu to pay
it a contrioutior. The French commissary Gauticr,
3r has orders to levy the reft of the contributions at
it Wctslaer.
jt LONDON, August 26.
H The Bruflels papers to the 21ft, which we re
jf ccivcd yesterday, fay, that the advanced posts of
rr the French which have taken Lindau, Conflance
m and Bregentz, have advanced as far as Memigen.
, 0 another column coming Ulm, has joined/'
. the advanced guard of the iCrmer, and are both
,e marching to Munich. The Auftrians have taken
a formidable position behind Lech.
, n General jourdan has refufed to treat Ratifton
m as a neutral place.
A letter from Wilhelmfoad of the 15th instant,
0 announces that the advanced guard of the Fren*h
u is ft' l ' at Schambach, near Ratifbon, and often
feuds reconnoitering parties in the fubuibs, on the
~ lef t bank of the Danube. Prayers had been offer-
Ie ed up at Munich for the welfare of the ttase, the
jr maintenance of religion, and a speedy conclufioa
of peace.
I! t LONDON, August 27.
s> The fallowing is a letter from 3n officer on board
{ * the Repulse man of war, dated off Helvoet, Au
j. R '7 •—" Our little squadron, confiding of the
Repulse man of war, Amphtcn and Greyhound
, y fr 'g»tes, Albatross, Hazard and Argo, floyp* u s
f war, have been for these ten days off this port,
blocking up the Dutch fleet, which consists ot the
jj Resolution, of 74 guns ; Brutus, of 66 ; Dels;, of
r 50 j Fuiy, of 36 ; and Mercury, of 24, befjdes a
r b, 'g a "d a schooner. They have twice (hewed an
inclination to come out and engage us, but return- /
ed again. Admiral M'Bride's squadron is now off
° the Texel."
1C Armifiice between :hi French Reptibi c ar.d the Circle
ef Franconia. ,
|_ C We, the undersigned members of the general
convention of the circle of Franconia, charged in
r » the name, and with the full power of, all the coitt
'* tries of the said circle, including the immediate
Franconian Knights of the Empire of all the fix
places, and Atignlfus Ernout, general of divifi .n,
e &c. farnifhed with proper powers on the part ef
the citizen and commander tn Chief Jourdan, anima
ted with the tiefire of lecuring the tranquility, of
c the inhabitants of the circle of Franconia, and of
consolidating the poffefiions which the vittoriou*
1 armies of the French republic have gained, have
made an agreement conhfting of the lollowing ar
ticles :—
c Art. I. The orders (hall be given for
1 the moll scrupulous obfervancc of the proelainati
on, publicly printed and promulgated by the com
' mander in chief, refpefting the iecurity of person
' and property, the maintenance ot religious worfhtp,
» and the laws and cnfloms of the country.
IT. By virtue of the preceding article, every in
-15 habitant is enthorifed to airett, orcaufe to be a'rrtf
® ted, such soldiers or other persons belonging to the
army, as shall be found plundering or committing*
r other exce/Tes, and they shall be delivered up to the
' next commandant, and punidied according to the
!• rigour of the law.
Hi. All the inhabitants of the circle of Frarf
conia, with tl;» illuitrious Rates who have left their
e refseflive residence to avoid for a moment all the
horrors of war, are at liberty, with their families
and feivants, as hkewile with all their property to
return within two decades (20 days] to reSfton from
the publication of the present inUiument, they (hall
then enjoy the fame lecurity and the fane proMM
tion as the other quiet inhabitants, who take no
( P arl ln the events of tha war. After the expirati
on of the two decades, none of them shall be allow
ed to return without special pcimiffion from the
commander in chief.
IV. The circle of Franconia /hall pay to the
French government, a contiibution of eight miili
r ons of livres in ready specie, of which however,
- two millions may be set off by furnifting neccffi
f rics or provisions for the armies.
V. The payment of the lix millions in fpecic, is
f to be made to the paymafler-general of the French
e army (according to the fevtral terms), fixed the
- whole within forty-five days.
VI. aud VII. Relate to the manner of difchnrg
, ing the two remainiug millions in necessary provi
, lions, &c.
111. The circle of Franconia (hsll elfo furnifil
2000 horses sot the cavalry, in two Hated terms.
1 IX, and X. Rdate to the re-partition of the
f -ontributiow, for vvhich sit military ccnunii»de-'>I
(hall, if required, afford every afliflince against such !
. is I'iall rcfufe to make good payment.
XI. F..m the period appointed for the payment
i.r the contribution, that is to fay, from this present
.W, every thing that (hall or may be fufnifhed far
the French army, (except free-quarters) shall be de
•dtifled from the contribution*. C
Margraviate* of Anfpach and Bare"ith, j
JielongW to hi* Pruflian majesty, and the principa j]
Ity of Schmafkalden, belonging to his serene high- ,|
;• tfs the Landgrave ofiaHefle Caflel, according to the
flatus quo in which tfjfY were before the wax, shall ; s
% exempted from tfilir share of the contribution. t ]
XIII. In cafe another republican army, exclu- „
.five of that of the Sambre and Meufe, (hould enter ei
Ihe territories of the circle of Franconia, it (hall j u
tnoft ftrietly observe the present convention, which
property speaking, concluded with the French
j »ovei nment. e .
XIV. The convention of the circle Franconia
It-etve for themselves t*'determine farther by fepa-
tile articles every thing relative to the diflributing o|
and levying of the contribution.
(Signed) Ernouf, general of division.
Oberkamp, Rhodiu*, C
Swanziger, Harfdorfc
INVASION OF ENGLAND. "
The French papers in general, of a recent daft, teem *■
•wist inveflives against the British Ministry, «
Cons upon means for effefling an invasion of this country, w
One of them asserts that the period is approaching when to
the strength of a population of 31 millions is to be tried E
against eight, tubjetfed to a king, and led in trammels by
a minister, the abhorrence of the human race. is
Citizen Kerguelin, vice admiral under the ancient go- w
vernment, alter tracing the causes «f the defiru&ion of the
French Navy, in a work lately publiflied, finilhes with a
proposal which he fays, under the present circumflances,
outht to be received by every good Frenchman who feels
himfeif insulted by the outrageous conduct of England be
fore and after the Revolution. —A descent upon England, 10
be affirms, ought to engross th« whole attention of the 4"
government. —■" I can," observes Kerguelin, « d«m»n- '»
(irate to the Direiftory the poflibility and the facility of
this descent, even with the maritime means yet remaining
in our power.—lf they will deign to consult me, I (hall
seize the opportunity of delivering up my plans and views
upon this fubjeit, which possess a degree of infaliibiiity,
being formed upon the enemy's territory, and fi-.ch as can
not be obflruAed in their execution by all the p»wer of
England." * v ... j,i
WEYMOUTH, Augufl >3.
His Mejefty, the Prince, the Duke of York, and Lord
TJibridge, ice. lsreakfafted at tne camp previous to the
Grand Review. The Review was a very grand military
fpeftacle. Asufual, onfuchoccafion? there were two op
posite armies drawn up. Ths Prince of Wales com- j.
manded the one army, and the Dake of York the other.
It afforded the highest gratification to the fpe&ators, the c;
various manoeuvres that were difphyed, and the whole
scene did cqnal credit to both Prißces.
PLYMOUTH, August *4. b !
The Penelope cutter which came in yesterday afternoon V 1
is skill mnder quarantine, confcqucntly flie has no commu
nication with the (hore, nor can we get any authentic par- t>;
ticulars ef the news flie has kronght, though there is no ai
doubt but her dispatches are of importance which were 'hi
eonveyedtfrom hence to London by Lieutenai* Birdwood rc
of the Penelope, and a lieutenant from the fleet under the
command of Admiral Jervis; the cutter failed from Cor
tea 3» flays fine#, and on h«r voyage spoke idmiraljer- ,
vitoffToulo*, with seventeen fail of the line, in fine con- 1
dition, and their crewt healthy, and injhigh fpiritt; and
it is confidently reported, that a few days after, she fell in ,
with the Spanish fleet from Cadiz, accompanied by the
fqutdron tinder Richery, confiding together of lC fail of P 1
the line, fleering up the ftreigkts. a<
) rs
PARIS, August 19. ol
There have been new diflurbances at Geneva. The two ] u
parties ihere have been contending so long that there was e
\ery reason to dread the effufion of blood. An infurreftion n
wasdevifed, of which these parties reciprocally accused each o
other. Nine of the agents of Ariftoeracy are, however in p
euftody on (peciHe charges. The alarm bell being founded, _
both parties diew up under arrni, but as neither offered to ,
attack, tranquility was soon reflored. It is feared that the
trial of the aciufed parties may bring back new troubles.
The momentary reverses which we have experienced in
Itaiy have been nfeful in one they have displayed the
cunning and falfehood of those who at one time appealed to
cur generofuy, but who would certainly have betrayed us, if
the fuccefsof Wur refer could have given them a durable im
punity,
Te Deumi were ordered at Vienna. Thepifture of Bu
onaparte was torn 10 pieces at Turin, and the National
cockade was trampled under foot The king of Naples was
about to join his forces to those of the Emperor ; and even
the Republic of Venice had an understanding with the Aus
trian General-
Bill, thanks to victory, the companion of Buonaparte,
these fetes and Tc Deums are laid aside. The Princes of
Italy; no w btfiege only the anti-chambtr of the General, to
avert if poflible, the contributions, wßlcn are to be iaifed in
proportion 10 their perfidy. «
PROCLAMATION,
Of the General in Chief of the Army of ITALY.
Head-guarters of Caftiglione, iqth Thermidor .
, Fourth Year.
Soldi e as,
You have conquered Italy a fccond time ! in five days you
lave gained two pitched battles, and five inferior iftions, t
you have taken fifteen thnufand prisoners, three generals,
tirtty pieces of cannoj, two hundred wagguns, and 6 fland
6f colours. Thole fierce Hungarians, triumphant last year c
on the Rhine, are now in your chaios, or fly before you — a
You have eruthed i«'an inflant the principal enemy of the re- n
public. Sa many high exploits ought not to make you preud,
but to inspire >ou with confidence ; they ought to teach you e
never to count your sncmies, however numerous they be.
The conquerors of Lodi. of Lonado, of Caftiglione, ought
to attack and deftfoy them. You renyv the boafled exam
plcsot Marathon and Platca: likethe brave Greek Pha
lanxes, the brigades of the army of Italy (hall be immortal;
Receive then, folniera, the mail of the fatisfaftion of
your general j it only precedes that of the whole country,
and of rising piflerny.
Brave foldters, be always impetuous in combats, and vi- F
gilant on your polls, Death Ihrinks trembling frum the a- t
gilc and resolutely brave: how often have you marched to
meet it, how often hive you seen it Q v before you, and en
t< i the liotlilc ranks ? It often overtakes the oaftard, but '
tiever flrikes the brave till his hour is come t
(Signed) BUONAPARTE. j
- For Sale, '
50.00© Wt. Black Pepper, and a quan
tity of Mace, Nutmegs and Cloves, i
Imported in the brig Mary, from Batavia, and entitled 1
to the drawback. Apply to ,
John Wilcocks,
t South Wharves, adjoining Ton Alley. '1
Who has to Lrt,
Th:r fpa.ioiis and convenient, three-story, Brick
HOUSE, I "os. 59 ami 61 South Water-street, lately
occupied by liaac Hfllthurft, Esq. and admirably cal
cubted so;' the acccmnioiUtion of a dry good mer
chant in an exleniive line. excellent
Wsrehctfes adjoining.
oa. jj. . d 6
»
V
Philadelphia,
SATURDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 15, 179 6 ' »
Mr. Fenno,
THE paper wliith has been pubhthed in the
Gazettes, purporting to be an official note from
the French minister lor foreign affairs, to M. Bar
thelemy, seems to excited much alarm among
the merchanu concerned in trade with the British
dominion). Whether note is authentic or not,
19 as yet unknown : but one thing ia certain, that
there exists no such older of the British govern-
ment, as the note represents to have been just giv-
en, and which is dated aj the immediate cause and
juliifieation of the resolution of the directory K te-
Ipifling neutral vessels.
Oiftober 15, 1796.
The Letter fiom Cadiz, in last evfiiing's Ga- e
zette, ought to have been dated tjth August instead e
of the Jth. t(
John Wilkes Kittera, Esq. is re-c!eAcd member of j.
Congress.
It has been induftriotifly circulated in the Country Is
among the Farmers, that the extradls of letters from tl
Europe, and other accounts, dating the very great w
fall ia the price of grain, are mere fabrications, the t|
■work of speculators and monopolizers. This idea is j
totally Bnfounded—The prices of groin are dawn in
Europe—We have fecn several letters stating the fail. S
The letter from which the following extratfl h '<
is left with the Edit«r, and may be seen by any person fl
who has any doubt on the fubjetSl. si
Extra 3 of a /(tier from London, August 15. ri
" In consequence of the uncommonly abundant 1«
harvest, the fall in the price of wheat isjgreat beyond
all example; good wheat from the Baltic is felling as
low as 355. per quarter, the finc-ft Dantzig at 40a. to
41s. American wheat 30 to ;,6s. per quarter, and flour,
is unfsleable even at 15s. per barrel frefh." /
BY THIS DAY's MAIL. t
NEW-\ORK, OAober 14.
There were several European arrivals yesterday;
but none of them can bring us any ntwi except the
brig Bollon, Capt. Curlis, from Hamburg in 41 and
Falmouth 24 days, and the fehooner Abeona, Captain f
Ropes, in 36 days from Cadiz. ' |j
By the Boflon we hope to get Hamburg papers this v
morning. Her verbal aceounts and letters corroborate
'our Dutch accounts in yefterday'j Argus, that Jourdan c
had defeated the Imperialists between Neurenberg and
Regenlburg, 'as we had it yesterday ; [We find on d
examination, that Regenfburg is the German for Ra- c
tifbon.] r
Verbal accounts by the Abeona, from Cadiz, state,
thatrhe British sailors had been permitted to return on
board their vefTels again, on,the day (he left that port, '
viz. the 4th September. '
We hear the managers of the theatre have received 8
by Capt. Adamf®n,*an addition to their corps—Mr. d
and Mrs. Seymour, The Lady's vocal talents sye p
'highly spoken of. She makes her firft entre to-mor- q
row even ; ng.
Several arrival* at Boflon mention the taking of
NewfoHndlond by'the French The news is ere-
dited. '
F
There is a brillia»cy in military atchievsmentt
that dar.zlea the eye, and blinds it to other prof- c
pedis- Thus, while we are astonished at the heroic 1
aftiens of the Freqch, we are apt to overlook the 1'
real efftfts of their principles on therofelvcrand on
other nations. We arc apt to Overlook the diffo- t
lute (late of morals, the total conuption as man- a
ners that pervade all their large cities; their neglect c
of arts ?nd science ; their violation of rights and c
property ; their internal fa&ions, which, in some 1
parts, are constantly (hedding blood ; their mur 1
ders and affaffinationi; their robbing and plunder- '
ing shipwrecked seamen—and especially their viola- 1
lion ®f the neutral rights of peaceable nations, and '
their dictatorial iiifolenee to Holland, Geneva, and '
other independent Rates.
What fife could be expc&ed ?—Thefe are the 1
inevitable confequenees of the atheistical tenets 1
I which arc imbibed even by the common citizens. '
i An intelligent gentlemen, who cannot be fufpec- '
1 ted of enmity to France, and who has lately return- '
• cd from a tour through that country, informs, that >
> atheism has made a progress in that country, efpe- 1
f cially among the young people, that astonished '
} him—— 1 hat two passions, a love of ivmv and love of *
1 <womenf absorb all their attention—That the cities
are finks of corruption—That their famous national ]
institute is contemptible—far infetior to the poorest !
' of the Ametican colleges. 1
Of the total want of morals in that country, we '
i have given some official evideMC, and we have more ]
1 to publish. W
; In ihort, however just was the cause of France 1
. oaiginally, while defence was the object, the tables 1
. ate turned. France is becoming a mere military 1
nation—War and plunder become neceflaty to her
| existence. America take warning '
By the late arrivals
HAGUE, Augufl 11.
NATIONAL assembly.
Citizens J. Hubert*and Co. at Rotterdam, asked
. pafTports for 200 passengers t» America—Referred
- to the consideration of the marine committee.
' Died here quite suddenly, on a walk, the wor
t tiiy old Mr. Dumas, agent te this country, frnm
the United States in North-America. He was a
man of great abilities and merits, haying done a
great deal to establish liberty in America, France,
and Holland. (
Augufl 13.
Tuesday lad citizen Blauw arrived here from Pa
ris. Citizen Mcijer will now continue our ambaf
i fador at the French republic. Citizen Blauw has
done great services to his country, and will next
month go to Halye, in the employ of our govcrn
'. ment.
August 16.
P>y the government of the province of Holland,
y an akeiation is ordered in the publication of July
. 30_'h, for paying money to the government, where
lt in it is to be feeti that all inhabitants are obliged to
pay fix per cent, of their propeity te the country,
j viz. one quarter to Ifi September, 1796, one
JO
*
•' 1
b quarter to id October, one quarter to i£tb No- r<
vember, one quarter to 3 1 ft. December.
Three sailors were a few days since (hot on board
a ship of w?r in the harbour of the Texel, for eon
fpiring with othen, to seize upon their officers, and s -,
to confine such of the mpn as might prove refrac
tory, with an avowed intent of running the ship s}
over to England.
. A-great numbet of the regular clergy in the Se-
veu provinces, who have refufed to take the oath
of allegiance to the present government, have been S!
difmifled. Fourteen out of twenty-eight, ia this
il city last week, shaved the fate of many of their bre-
thren. They propofrd some modification, in the
oath, with reference to the Orange family ; hiving
no objection ,to ftibmit to the present ruling power Jo
during its continuance, but seem fully determined
not to exclude themselves by oath from fervlng un
der the Piince, should fortune ever again restore
him to his former dignity. A very popular preaeh
'■ er in Rotterdam, u*med Sharp, adored by his hear- th
d ers, has also been discarded, since which he has en- si
, tend into ;rade.
The Freneh minister Noel, has requeßed of the
Dutch convention, a sum exceeding 5000 gUeldres,
for repairing the damages which the French fleet
y lately sustained in the engagement ofF Goree, with
n the Efrglifh man of war ;on pretence that the fleet SI
11 was destined to protest the coast of Holland. Tbeir
e true object, however, was to cruise for a fleet of
18 Englifti merchantmen ; and several members fug
t' gefted, that those ships have been in the firft in-
A fiance badly equipped, for that in so unequal a con- Sc
n flift, it was impofiible to receive damages to focon- SI
fiderable an amount. The request, however, was
referred to the marine committee, and will doubt
it less be complied with. 2(
d —<— ar
« PROCLAMATION. B
8 — 8
T j Liberty. Equality. P
— R
FRENCH REPUBLIC!
Andrew Rigaud, geneial of brigade, commander
in chief of the south, aad the diftri&s thereto
annexed. j,
; Cayes, »2 2 Fru&idor, u
e 4th year of the republic. w
d Divers captains of corsairs have presented me pe- f c
n titions, praying that I would pronounce on the va- e(
lidityof the prizes they have made of American 01
e vessels, going into the ports of St. Domingo, oc- G1
B cupiedby the Englilh, and by the French rebels. ,j
d The Americans, on their part, request to be
n decided on and dismissed, since great part of tl.cir
1- cargoes confiflin£ of perifbable articles, will be t j
ruined, which will oecafion a great loss.
Confiderii.g that 1 have not the power of decifl- e ,
" ing on the validity of prizes j that the new law on 0
' this point is not known to mc ; that lam ignorant jj
d also whether the coromiffion of government inten- 0
-. ded the corsairs Aiould take americaiis, bound to j
e ports occupied by our enemies, and that of conse
quence I »-annot decide definitively on the applica
tions made to Hie on this fubjeft.
' Confidcring also that it is just to render a provi
fofy sentence, on account of the didance of the
powtn cooipetcut to decide on this head. X
1 To do iultice to the repeated solicitations of the 4
f. captains and owners ot privateers, and of the (me- 5
c tican liipercaigocs ;it is ordered provitorily as sol- g
lC lows :—
n The captains aad owners of privateers (corsairs) _
the captains and supercargoes of american vessels, Ir
j. are authorized, if they can agree among thcmfelves, ~
to land all or part of the cargoes of the vessels feiz- ~
d ed, proceeding, in prefencc of persons appointed by
ie the administration voluntarily or judicially, to the
x sale of their said cargoes ; the proceeds of sale shall
r . be depofitcd in the public treasury, to be remitted |
j. to those to whom they (hall be foupd to belong, as J
d fooH as dehaitive sentence fliall be pronounced on $
id the seizure of the yeffels.
Those american captains who shall have papers
, e under the regulations of the government of the
tg United States, and (hall have nothing against them
except being leisced going to ports in the power of
e . the enemy, (hall have permiflian on giving security
te the amount of vefiel and cargo, to load and make
a t a voyage to the continent without loss of time,
e . without bring exposed to heavy expends, on ac
;d count of the delay that will attend a deaifion on
t f the aforefaid seizures.
e, The officers of administration in the different I
a l ports, where there (hall be vefTels seized, are char, j
:ft g e d with the execution of this order, as are the
military commanders. They are directed to flop
re further ptocefs, each under penalty of personal res- '
re ponfibility.
The ordonnator is requeued to notify this order
cc to all his subordinate officeis in the department of
es the South and diftrt3s annexed, and require them
ry to enforce it.
cr (Signed) A, RIGAUD.
True copy from the register,
L. POUTU, Sec'y.
GEORGE-TOWN, Oflober it. 1
A second time the alarming fpediacle of a rag
ing and deftru&ive fire has been presented in this
C( j town. It was discovered about eleven o'clock
:( j on Sunday morning, in the dwelling hotife of Mr.
J. Laird, who was then absent. A large number
ir _ of citizens were speedily afTembled ; but their ex
m ertions did not save the building where the fire com-
a menced—it was entirely consumed } but the pro-
R pcrty within was princfpally preserved, aad the far
e ther progref6 of the ft epi evented.
We are informed, that Messrs. William Craik,
Ivichard Sprigg, George Dent, George Baer, and
'a- S a,nu d Smith, are eltfted representatives in Con
if. g re f s for their several diftri&s.
3b
GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES MARINE LIST.
n- ' «
PHILADELPHIA, oaober 15.
The {hips Glasgow from Dublin, Union, from London
i«. derry 59 days W!-h rio paffengeri, and brig' Molly from t
ily Port-au-Prince nre below. 1
re- • efterday came up to the Point, aa price
t0 to a French privateer of 14 guns. The prize is one of the
homeward bound Jamaica fleet, two more o,f which," ta
-7> ken by the fame priviteer, art bsiow, or.e of them a large 1
ne tranfp»rt fliip.btUnjjiiig t» Wtjcby, (fcngiap.i,) aad wfts I
*
vS
- returning lemt in hallaft; the omers have enrgoos.—• v
They cannot, agreeably to the laws of the United Statst,
, be permitted to unload here ; but it is supposed will re
4 main until the captors find it convenient to fail for a French
" port. The brig that has arrived was dilmafted in the late
1 gale.
. ARRIVED. Djys.
, Ship George, Rict, Hull 54
Bacchus, George, Hamburgh til
Experiment, Palmer, Bordeaux 53
Go den Age, Earl, Klngilon a 8
t Roba & Betsey, Nimo, Bristol 53
1 Ship Cencord, Thompson, *• 4mfterdara 4;
, BrigSufannah returned in distress
Schr. I)ich, Brown, Trinidad 23
Schr. Betsey Holland, Sheckley, Kingston ao
: PhiUdelphia, Hammond, Port-au-Prince r»
; Arrived at the Fort. Ship) Philadelphia, Hlifs, Bridol,
r John Henderfon, prize to the French, o*e of the Jamaica
j flett, taken a month ago.
Sloop Mary, Geyer, Demarsra 14
Sally, Fasten, Guadaloupe 39
: I.ibeity, Lincoln, New England j
The following are the pritei carried into Cayenne bf
. the French cruizcrt.
Ship Indian Trader, from Lendon for Bengal.
Geoige, from Csrk for Ja naiea
Thetis, from London for Martinico.
: Kaffau, froth Greenock for New-Providence.
, Mary, from Fayal for Port-au-Prince,
t New-York, O&obcr 13.
1 y ARRIVED."
: Ship General Lincoln, Lawrence, Hamburg —
Mohawk, Moore, J.sndon <5j
p Grace, Armour, \ Amsterdam —
Commerce, Atwodd, Liverpool 6}
Brig Boston, Curlis, Hamburg 4*
Ceres, Moore, ' Cadiz at
• Scftr. Abeona, Ropes, Cadiz J6
Slcop Trio, Hubbell, Guadatovpe aj.
s BAtTtMORE, Oft. 13.
Ycfterday arrived schooner Eliaa, Capt. Rogers*
20 days from Jeremie. Left at Jetemie, ship Di
ana, Defhon, Baltimore, to fail next day ; schooner
Betsy, Lloyd, do. to fail in two days ; schooner
Betsy, Capt. Boyd, do. biig Minerva, Moody,
Philadelphia ; brig Molly, do. schooner p
Rice, do. floup Liberty, of New-York.
Left Jereffiie September 22} next day, about
r 14 leagues from Cape-Nichola-Mole, was bearded
' by a boat with fix armed men, which we found to
belong to two French privateers, then abrcaft of
us, about two leagues off. We were in company
* with the fchooncr Nelly, Capt. Brown, of Nor«
folk, who failed with us from Jeremie j they board*
" ed her firft, then us; they very politely examined
1 our letters and papers, and permitted us to proceed
on eur voyage. One of the privateers was 'called
the Sonthonax, Capt. Rolland ; the other L'iron
" delie, both belonging to Capt. Rolland.
r Mr. Coon, fupfercargo of the Eliii, inform,
: that the Bite of L«ogane is still insetted with a
great number of piratical row-boats, who carry in
every American that falls in their way—Upwards
1 of 100 have been taken into different ports ia the
I Bite ; among them two belonging to Baltimore,
one of which Mary, owned hy Mr. Carrere*
5 Flour at Jeremie was retailing from 12 to 14 dol»
" lars, very dull—Coffee 30 sols, and very fearce.
S T 0 C K S>
e ?ix per Cent. - - .... «.
Three per Ce«t. ------ - 10/s f int.
e 44 per Cent. - 14/ ( e(T.
. per Cent. - -- -- . . • ifaj
Deferred Six per Cent. - - - -
BANK United States, - - - • Ijtowprct.
—— Punnfylvania, - - - - 16 to 17
) -- North \meiica, - - - - 45 to 46
, Insurance Comp. North-America, J7 i-»per seat, adv,
lt Pennfyjvania, psr to 3 per cent, adv
y For Portsmouth, New-Hampshire,
II 7*if Scktoiur LUCT,
, . Prowfe, matter; will fail in
i the course of a week, and take freight
' i °ii moderate terms, for at
Q apply on board, or to
joseph Anthony, Cff Co.
s OAober 15. dx
C-■ - ■ n
n f THE PANTHEON,
j Jitd Ricxstts's Amphitheatre,
c For Equestrian aßd Stage Corner of
Chefnut and Sixth-streets.
> THIS EVENING, Saturday Oflober t S ,
D Will be presented,
it A variety of pleafingEntertainments,
r " Equestrian Exercises"-by Mr. Ricketti, Mr- F. Ricketti,
e Ma(lerHutchins,and Mrs. Spinacuta. *
p Clows to the horfemanlhip—Mr. Sully.
f. After which will We presented, for the firft tin»e this
Season,
A PANTOMIMIC BALLET DANCE,
f called
J The Diftrcfled Sailor,
and the
BENEVOLENT CREW,
Poor Jack with a bvapipe—Mr. Durang.
Ned HawVyard—Nr. Coflje.
Sailors by the reft of the Company.
Mrs. Cafey, the Wapping Landlady—Mrs Tompkins.
Sailors Lalfes,
'* Mrs. Spinacuta, Miss Robinson, Mrs. Tompkins,
is 1 and Orange Girl, Mrs. Durang.
k HORSEMANSHIP—by Mr. Ritketts.
r. TICHT ROPE DANCING—by Mr. Spinacuta,
EQUESTRIAN EXERCISES.
£- And (for the last time this fe»fon)
The whole to conclude with a COMIC PANTOMIME,
called,
r The Death and Renovation of Harlequin.
Harlequin—Mr. Sully.
Old Man—Mr. Dfiraag.
£ > Lover—Mr.TompkißS.
id Clown—Mr. Spinacuta.
Ariel—Mifj Robinson.
And Columbine—Mrs Spinaoata.
by the reft of the Company.
The Pantomime to conclude with a DANCE.
£*T The doors will open at 6 o'clock—Performance
commences at 7—-Boxes 7s. 6d.—Pit 3s. gd.
Tickets to be had of Mr. Ford, at (he ticket office in
Chefnut-Hreet, from ten to three o'clock each day.
1- Silver Tickets, to admit for the ftafon, to be had
m by applying to Mr. P icketts at the Pantheon, or at o*l
- Hotel.
'e REMOVED.
a- The Compting-Houfe of HENRY PHILIPS, No.
fe ttß, Spruce-street, to th« Corner of South Fourth anj
as Prune-Greets. Oflober 13. *3For Sale,
A Three-dory BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in CJirfnut
*■ street, between Front and Sccond in which f-
MefTrs. James Calbraith & Co. have for many years (and
aow do) carried on buGnefs. 4
Poffefiion will be given in one month, or fooncr.
For terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or
HECTOR CALBRAITH.
Jipril »i. § 1
A Manufactory FOR SALE.
A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufactory, filuste
;n a convenient part of the city ; the' works almost new,
oo an entirely original conftiu&ion, and built ot the Left
materials, and may be set to work immediately. Persons
ttho : wfthto purcnafe, are reqti'efted to apply at No. 27q,
South Second Street. d
" September 13. fttf . tf e
Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE.
Na. 63 South Third ftrqet,opp«fite she national new Bank. 1
SAMUEL M FRAUNCES and JOHN VAN REED, J
have entered into co-partnership, under the firm of c
FRaUNCES & VAN REED, in the business of Brokers,
Conveyancers and Commiflion merchants. They buy and
;«11 on comatitfion every species of stock, notes of hand,
bills of'exchange," houses and lands, &c.
Money proenred on depolits, &c. kc.' all kinds c<
writiags in the conveyancing line, done with neatnefsand
dispatch; accounts adjyfted, and books fettled, in the
riioft'correa manner. Constant attendance will be given. %
rhey solicit a Hi are of the public favor; they are deter
mined ta endeayoi% to deserve it.
N. B. The utmost fefcrecy observed. j
S AMUEL M. FRAUNCESy 4
JOHN VAN REED.
fhllad. August 27, 1796. m&wtf 6
Valuable Real Estate,
Forfait at studion by Casper Thtell, of Hamburg, »
late l/)9property of James and William Kinnear. t .
For sale by public ancSion, on the 9th day of November
next ensuing, at the sigh of Gen. Washington, Wood's
tavern, borough of Reading, Berks county,the follow
ing 'teal estate, viz.
No I A TR ACTof land containing 465 acres with n
■il allowance for roads,called the Purchase, f (
fiuated in Brunfwick township, Berks county, patented, c
18th o> Jan. This tradt, of which about 25 acres
are cleared, is of good foil, fjtuated on the Tomagua, or
Little Schuylkill, well watered and timbered, on which is
erefled a good log dwelling honfe and liable.
No. 2. A tradl of unimproved l«nd, containing 284 a
cres, with allowance &c. called Hopewell, patented 28th -
October, 1790, situated in Brunfwick township, ,Becks
eounty, foil good.
No. 3. A trad of unimproved land, Containing 376 a- 1
cres with allowance, &c. called Hillfburg, patented 28th J
' Oflober l79o,Tltuation, &c. as No, 4. -j
No. 4. A tra£t efunimproved land, containing 388 a- c
" tres, with allowance, &c. patented 28th of Oiftober, 1786,
situation, &c. as No. 2 and j. t j
No. 5. A trail' of land, containing 268 acres, and 57 ti
ferches, with allowance, &c."iituated in Brunfwidk town- n
ship, Berks county, on Tomagua, or little Schuylkill, j a
rhiles above the town «f Hamburg, on which is erefled a
well finifhed two story squared log dwelling house, 22 o
feet by 35, within the Pittance ofioo perchesfrem a forge, v
with the advantage of a ferry Tind public houfe'j these ad
vantages render this trail very valuable. t
No 16. A town lot in Hamburg, enclosed with a post a
and rail, or board fence, Containing in front, 60 feet, and
in depth 18s feet, fubjeit to a ground rent of 7/6 per an- j
suto.
No. 17. A town lot in Hamburg, enclosed as no 16, to a
which it adjoins, being of the fame dimensions, andfubjetS h
to the fame ground rent, on which is eredted a log liable, r
16 by 18 feet ' a
No. 18. A town lot in Hamburg, adjoining to No. 17,
a corner lot, fronting-oti Main and Schuylkill streets, di- t
mtnfions the fame as No. 16 and above described, sub- r
je<sl to 10/0 per annum ground rent. On this lot "is er
eiled a large 2 story dwelling house, 45 feet front on Main e
street, by 34 feet ii; depth on Schuylkill street, pleasantly 1;
and advantagconfly situated for a (tore. 1
N. B. The above described three town lots will be fold f
<?parately or together, as may best fu't the purch fers. ji
Conditions of sale— One third of the purchase money
to be paid to the fabferibers, or either of them in Philadel- .
phia, at or bef are the expiration of one iiionth frem the
day of sale, when .a deed of conveyance will be executed ;
the residue payable in 2 equal paymants, at 6 apd 12 months
with intereft,the payment whereof to be secured by mort
gage on the premises. c
' I" 1 "'/ ■ H , en £ er - r °"'„ 1 Affigneesto f
Frederick Montmollm, (the estate of 5
Thomas Rogers, 1 James &Wm. a
Jtfeph D. Drinker, J Kinnear. r
September 26. m & th. {
Treasury Department, ]
September 28, 1796. <
NOTICE is hereby given, that proposals wdl "be re
ceived at the office of the Secretary of the Treasury | «
until the expiration of the firft day of March next en- '
suing, for the supply of all rations which may he required «
for the use bf the United States, from the firft day of '
june, 1797, to the thirty-firft day of May, 1798, both <
days inclusive, at the peaces and within the diftriils here- '
after mentioned, viz. At Ofwego; at Niagara; at '
Pjefque Isle; at Sanduiky Lake, and oil Sanduflcy <
Rivsr.; at Detroit; at Michilimaikinac; at Fort-Frank- '
lin; at Pittsburgh ; at Cincinnati j at" Fort-Hamilton • '
at. Fort St. Clair; at Fort-Jifferfon ;at Gresville; at !
Piequr Town and Loramies Store; at Fort Adams'; at
Fort Wjiyne; at Fort Defiance; at any place below Fort
Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Erie; at Fort
Steuben ;at Fort Mallac ;at any place from Fore Maffac 1
to the south boundary of the United States on the river 1
Mlffifippi ; at Tort Knox ; at Ouiatanon. '
■If Supplies Ihall be required lor any posts or placw not i
mentioned in this notice, all such supplies shall be fur
nilhed at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
posts before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed on
between the United States and the Contrailor."
The rations to be fupplicd are to consist of the fel
loving articles, viz. 1
One pound two ounces of brea<f*or flour. * '
One pound two outlets of beef, or fourteen ounces of
pork or bacon.
Half a gill of rum, brandjr or whiftey.
One.quart andhaJf pint of falt."S
Two quarts ef Vinegar,' (
pounds of Soap, f P er hundred ration?
One pound of Candles, j
1 jie rations arc to be furuiHied in filch quantities, as that
there shall at all t'.fjc, during thefaid term, be fuflicient
for the consumption of the troops at Michilimackinac, De
troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, for the term of fix months in
advance, and at each of the other posts, for the term of
at ltaft three months in advance, iw good and wholesome
provlftons, if the fame flftll be required. It is to be un
derload, thai the Contra&or is to be at the expence and
rifl: of lffuirgtl.e supplies to the troops ateach post, and
that all lofTes sustained by the depredations of an enemy, or
by means cf rbe troops of the United States, shall be paid
for at the price of the articles captured or destroyed, on
»he drpofitions of two or more persons of creditable cha
racters, and the certificate of a commiffioncd oflicer af
certainin;, tha circuniftances of the loli, aijd the amo'ur.t
ef the »ititles foi which con-.penfation {ball be claimed '
OLIVER WOI.COTT, ' I
Secretary of the Treafery. |
t ' ■
y •%
1 JOHN MILLER,, fun.'& Co.
No. 8, CHESNUT STREET,
' Have Imported in the late velTels from Europe, &c. -
1 AND HAVE lOR SALE,
A general assortment of GOODS, suitable to the season— \
Atnongft which are,
BROAD and narrow CLOTHS,
Plain and twill'd COATINGS, i
Rose striped and paint BLANKETS,
FLANNELS and BAISES,
HATS assorted in cases,
IRISH LINENS, <
{ INDIA GOODS, generally,
, A Conligned Invoice of IRONMONGERY,
, f Comprising a capital assortment to open a store—inclu
ding Thirty Cafc of NAILS. This invoice will be fold
entire on very advantageous terms.
September 20. d
— 11 1 m a ——
Lottery
• TT'OR railing fix thousand fix hundred and fir.ty-feven
', I dollars and fifty cents, by a deduction of fifteen per
f cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a prize, viz
•, I Prize of 5000 dollars is dollars 5000
d 1000 1000
1, i 500 500
5 ioo roco
' 20 roo sooo
d 9$ 50 495°
e 200 25 50 00
1. 2000 10 10,000
5 Last drawn numbers of rooo dollars each, 5000 .
2334 Prizes. 44,45°
4018 Blanks.
__ 63 jo Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44,450 ,
By order of the Directors of the Society for eftablilh
;ng UftfulManufaitures, the fuperiotendaiits of the Pat- ,
erfon Lottery have requested the Managers to offer the 1
' Forsgcfing Stheme to the public, and have directed them
to refund the money to those persons who have purchased (
r in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets, •„
s in this Lottery.
rhe lottery has aitually commenced drawing, and will
continue until finilhed. A, lift of the Blanks and Prizes V
1 may be seen at the office of William 'Blackburn, Nr.. 64 j
south Second street, who will give information where tick
ets may be procured. f
Dated this 17th day of June, 1796.
J. N- CUMMING, ")
JACOB R. HARDENBERC, > Managers.
JONATHAN RHkA, ) t
dtf eo ,
i — 1. — 1
8 Samuel Rfchardet,
- T) ESPECTFULLY informs the Gentletnen '
1 -TV Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY ;
TAVERN and MERCHANTS O OFFEE HOUSE in the 1
- city of Philadelphia:
, The Suhfcription Room will be furnifhed with all the r
daily papers published in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos- 1
7 ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com- 1
- mercial cities of Europe—They will be rugularly filed
S and none permitted to be taken away on any account. 3
a Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety c
2 of French Liquors; together with the ufaal refrefhments, T
will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen ifaay depend on being accommodated with 1
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the molt '
1 approved Malt from London and other breweries. ®
1 The Larder \yill befupplied with the prime and earliest J
- productions of the Season. • •
Large and ftnall Parties, or single Gentlemen, may be J
0 accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
1 hours jnoft convenient to themselves—a cold Collation is !
rogwlarly kept for conveniency, the Eillof Fare to be had
at the bar. c
', The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifhed, and c
- the utmost attention paid to cleanliness, and pvery other c
requiflte.
Samuel Rich aedet will be happy to receive, and
n execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at J
y large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges c
himfelf that nothing on his part Ihall be wanting to pre- '
d fervethat patronage withwhieh hehasbeenfo diftinguilh
ingly fionored.
y Philadelphia, April ig. mwf
e . Treasury of the United States.
J "KTOTiCE is hereby given to all persons who are or
_LN may be Creditors of the United States, for any sums
of the Funded debt, or Stoci, bearing a present interef of fx
per centum per an nam.
° ift, That purluant to an A& of C#ngrefs pafl<ed on the 1
} f 28th day of April, I796,intitled an a& in addition to an 1
*• adt, intituled " An ad making further provision for the
support of public credit, and for the redemption of the
public debt," the said debt or ftockwillbe reimkurfed and
paid in manner following, to wit. " First, by dividends
u to be made on the last days of March, June and Septenv
ber for the present year, and from the year one thousand *
" seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year one thou
| c< sand eight hundred & eighteen inclufive,at. the rate of
y <c one and \>ne half per centum upon the original capital.
1- >(< Secondly, by dividends to be made on the last day of r
d " December for the present year, and from the year one
>f " thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year T
h " one thousand eight hundred and seventeen inclusive, at (
the rate of three and one half per centum upon the ori- c
it " ginal capital; and by a dividend to be made on the last j
y " day of December, in the year one thousand eight hun- {
> " dred and eighteen, of such Jum, St will be then
; " quate, accordifig to the c&ntradt, for the redemp
it u tion of the said stock."
t All diftin&ion between payments. on account of
't Iniereft and Principal being thus abolilhed by the eftablifh
•t ment of the permanent rule of reimbursement abov« de
iC scribed, it has become necessary to vary acc®rdingly thG ;
r powers of attorney for receiving dividends; the public
creditors will therefore observe that the following form
it is established for all powers of attorney wliich may be
r- granted after the due promulgation ol this notice, viz.
KNOW ALL MEN BT Ttf£SE PRESENTS, that
in /
do malic, conjlitute and appoint
of my trut and lawful At
torney,formey arid in my name»to receive the dividends ivbUb are,
or Jball be payable according to laiv, on the (here describing the
°f stock) Jlanding in my name in the both of (here defcribwig the
books of the Treasury or the Commiffioncr of Loans,
where the stock is credited) from (here* mfert the com
mencement and expiration of time for whieh the power of
n9 attorney is to continue) zvitb power aljo an attorney or attor- ,'
tzies under him, for that purpose to male andfubfitute, and to do all
lawful afls requijitefor tjfecling thepremifes, hereby ratifying and
at confirming all that my said Attorney or bisfubfitute ,shall lawful
nt [y do, by virtue hereof \ (
k C- In Witness hereof, I have hereunto set my Hand and Seal the
in day of intbeyear
of Sealed and Delivered ,
lie v prefenc^of,
in- BE l'T KNOWN,that on the day *f
nd efore meperfonally came
nd within named and acknowledged the above letter of attorney to be
or his aSt and deed.
lid In tefimony whereof I have hereunto set my Hani and affix
on *d Seal the day and year lap of errcjaid.
la " Given under my Hand at Philadelphia, thistwen
tieth day of July 1796, pursuant to diredliens
mt from the Secretary of the Treasury.
SAMUEL MEREDITH,
7reafwer of the United States.
For Sale,
A Complete Font of Brevier,
ENtirely new, and yet unopened. The weight of this
font is about 311 lb. It is from the Foundery of
WSlfon & Sons, Glasgow, and will be fold at col: & charges.
Also for Sale, a pair of Siiper Royal Chafes.
Enquire at the Office of the Gazette of the United
States, 119 Chefriut-ftreet.
September 27. . .. . ■ dtf
Cit\ of Waihington.
SCHEME 'of the LttTTERY, No. 11,
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT 0 t THE
FEDERAL CITY.
' . A magnificent ) 20,000 dollars, & £
dwelling-house, 3 caih 30,000, are j ' U
1 ditto 15,000 & cafe 25,000 40,000
I ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
: I ditto 10,000 & cash 10,000 20,000
! 1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & calh 5,060 10,000
I cafli prize of lo,oo'p
) 2 do. 5,000 each, are » 10,000
) 10 do. i,ooo' - - 10,000
> 20 do. 500 - - 10,000
> oo'do. ioo - % 10,000
' 200 do. 50 10,000
400 do. 45 - - 10,000
1,000 do. so - 30,000
' 15,000 do. Jo .*"• - 150,000
j
1T5,739 Prizes.
' 35,26 i Blanks.
( 50,009 Tickets, at Eight DollafJ, 400,000 j
N. B. Tofavour those who may take a quantity of
iTickets, the prize of 40,600 dollars will be the last drawn
ticket, and the 30,ooothe last but one :
| And approved notes, securing payment in either tnoney
or prizes, in tqn days alter drawing, will be received foi
' any number not less than 30tickets.
, This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of the pri
vate buildings to be ere<sted in the City of Waihington—
' Two beautiful designs are already feledled for the entire
fronts on two of the public squares; from these prawings
it ispropofed to erect two centre and four corner buildings,
as soon as poillble after this lottery is fold, and to convey
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner tkferibed in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery.
' A nett dedufiitm of five per cent, will be made to defray
the necessary expenses of printing, &c. and the surplus
will be made a part of the fond intended for the Natianal (
Univerlity, to be erscled within the city of Waihington.
The Drawing will commence is soon as the tickets are
fold off.—The money prizes Will be payable in thirty days
after it is finifhad ; and any prizes for which fortunate
numbers ale not produced within twelve mohths after the
drawing i» closed, are to be confnfered as given towards
the fund for the Univerfify ; it being determined to fettle
the whole business in a year from the ending of the draw
ing, and to take up the bonds given as security.
The real securities given for the payment of the Prizes,
are held by the President and two Directors of the Bank
of Columbia, and a're valued at mofe than half the a
mount of the lottery.
The twenty four gentlemdn who T;y appointment of
the late Commiflioners .assisted in the management of the
Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake this arduous talk
a second time on behalf of the public 5 a fulficient nnm
ber of thel'e having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
friends to a National Unjverfity and the other federal ob
jects may continue to favor the design.
By accounts received from the different parts of the
Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets '
have been sent for sale, the. public are assured that the
drawing will fpcedily commenic, and that the care and
[ caation unavoidably necessary to insure a fafe diffofal of
the tickets, has rendered the ftiort fufpe.nfion indifpenfable s
SAMUEL BLODGET.
Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; o
James Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter Gilman, Boston
, of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells
Cooper's Ferry. eo
Watson's Answer to Gibbon.
JUST RECEIVED,
And for sale by J. ORMROD, No. 41, CheTnut-ftreet,
Apology for Christianity,
' In a feriet qf 'Letters, addrejfed tt
Edward Gibson, Es<^.
Author of the History of the Incline and Fall of the
Roman Empire:
; Bv R. WATSON, d. d. f. r. s. Bilhop of Landaff. \
\ ' (Price 75 cents bouud.) *
Watson's Answer to Paine,
1 To be had at the fame place.
"The enemies of Religion are awake J Let not her
I friends Jleep.
I £e P t - *• mw&ftf
NOTICE.
TMK Subscriber, having been reduced in his circum
fiances, by funriry misfortunes, and being thereby
nuable to fatisfy his just debts, hereby gives notice to his !
■ Creditors and to all persons concerned, that he intends to ,
I a PP'T to the General Assembly of Maryland at their next ;
: feflion to be held on the firft Monday of November nest, i
for the benefit of an a<ft of insolvency. ,
WILLIAM EDMONDSON
Eafton, Tft of the oth month, 1796. XawtiftMN 1
[ Tobe fold,
A PLANTATION, in the town of Woodbury, coun
ty of Gloucester, and state of New-Jersey, contain
. ing about one hundred and fifty acres ; a suitable propor
! tion of which is woodland and improved meadow. A
; great part of the arable land is in a high state of cultiva
tion, -md very natural to the production of Red Clover.
, Ou said plantation there is a genteel two-story brick house",
with four rooms on a floor, and a good dry cellar under
the whole; together with a barn, corn-cribs arid carriage
haufe. rhe garden is large, and contains a good collec
tion of the belt kinds of grafted and inoculated fruit trees •
I the orchardconfifts of about three hundred grafted appie
; trees. Any person inclined to purchase said premises, may
be informed ef the terms by applying to
ANDREW HUNTER,
f J"'y *9 &
i To be Sold,
' At No. 128, Ncrtb Second-Street, and by several of
the Apothecaries in this City.
'"pRANSFERS of the right to remove pains and inflamma
'« *■ tion* from the human body, as seCured to Dr. ELISHA
PERKINS, by patent, with inftrumeatsand directions ne
celfaiy for the practice. This mode of treatment is particu
larly ufeful in relieving pains in the head, face, teeth, breast,
fide, stomach, back, rhcumatifms, recent gouts, &c. &a.
Notwithllanding the utility of this prafttce, it is not pre
(c fumed but there are cases in which this and every other
remedy may sometimes fail.
I llnc '• law
!_ To be disposed of,
is HPHE time of a healthy NEGRO WOMAN, who
X has hetween f»ur and five years to serve ; She
can be reconrlmended for her fobricty and hon;fly. For!
particulars enquire'at No. 131, Chefr.jt-tlre-t. * |
Augtft 3. w3tftf
Mr. FRANCIS,
{Of the Ne<w Theatre)
T A , K , E ? thlS 7P°" unit y ° f returning thanks to hi,
A scholar. and to the pubhe. Mr. Francis intends
on his return from Maryland, to open a public .y- '
demy tor dahcing, upon a plan entirely new He '
flatters himfelf that his attention to his pupils hi ■
therto renders any promises of conducting his future
ichemes on the molt liberal and ftrieleft terms, of wtJ
priety, totally unnecefiary.
N. B. Private tuition as usual. ,
June i
— TIW
No. 154.
Diflrid of Pennsylvania, to -wit :
C VR E ir r "nemr>ered tha: on the 26th dayofSe,.-
j C the twemy-firft year of the Inde
ed Ww. 3 pendence of the United Mates of America A
braham Bradley, junior ef the said Diftria,hath dewftrl
in this office the title of a Map, the right whereol ' h
claims as author in the words following to wit
"Map of the United States exhibiting the situation
» connexions & diftaricesof the Poll-Offices, .Stage
Counties, Ports of Entry and Delivery for Fori. 1 ; vei*
lcls, and the principal rivers, #
" By ABRAHAM BRADLE¥< W "
In conformity to the Ad of the Congress of the United
States intituled "An afi for the encouragement of learn
ing fey fecurmg the copies of maps, charts, and books ta
the authors and proprietors of such copies darinc the
times therein mentioned.'' * •
Samuel Caldwell, Clerk,
Ui/lriS of Pdflnjyltiania.
v> fl An: 6 map J ma " of the a «tTior at the General
Poll-Office, next door to the War-Office in Fifth-Street
and at his houf-, No. 78, corncr of Crown.Street and'
Brewers Alley between 4 th and uh, and Vine and Cal
_lowh.ll Sreets. Prices from 3ito 5 dollars each. accord
ing tol the manner -in which they are finifficd. TherPo
grefs (or arrivals and departures) of the Mail on the Main
Line may be had fepatetd for 3 7 f ceepts.
■*' '• iaw6w.
IV ANTED,
Jlr. AP P RENT ICE to the Prirting Bu/niefs.
Enquire atthis Office. Au()
Wafhmgton Canal Lottery.
'N°. I.
WnEREAS the State of Maryland has aathorifed
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fu thbufand
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose Of cutting'
a Canal through the City of Walhington, frosi th Po
tomac to theEaftern Branch Haroour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. f.
Viz -I Prize of 10,000 dollars, ao,ooo
I ditto X 0,000 10,000
7 lad drawn 7 i
Tickets, each S' S, °°° 3J,00a
6 ditto 1,000 6,900
10 ditto 400 4>ooo
so ditto 100 4)000
55 ditto 50 3)7J0
5750 ditto iz 69,008
To be raised for the Canal, 16,150
5850 Prizes, IJSPoG
1x650 Blanks, not two to a prize/
17560 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,060
The Commifiioners bav» taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid ad for the pun&ual of
the prizes. *
The drawing of this Lottery will commence-, .without
delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of wiiidh timely
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after tht
drawing is finifhed, ihiii fce considered as relinquifted for
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly
(Signed) NOTLEY YOUNG, °
DANIEL CARROLL, o/D.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. m.duncanson,
THOMAS LAW,
> JAMES BARRY.
City of Walhingtou, Feb. 11. §
At a special meeting of the Board of Di
redors for eflabll/hing vfefut Manufacture], bottle.»
at Paterfon, 'July 8, 1796,
~P) ESOLVED, That a special meeting of the Stork
iv holders of the Society be called on the firft Monday,
being the third ',ay of October next, at paterfon, by ten
of the clock of the fame day; then land then; to t :ke
into confidcration the propriety of. dissolving the laid
corporation, agreeably to the law in such calc made and
provided—and the Stockholders are earner Iv requsiled
to attend the said ftieeting in person or by proxy.
August 27. dt^othO
FOR SALE.
A PLANTATION,
ABOUT 12 miles from this City, situate in Abiiig
ton Townlhir>, Montgomery-County ; containing
70 a&res, a new stone house, two Hories high, 2 rooms on a
floor, fire places in each, a Itone kitchen and stone fpiing
house, over an excellent spring of water, a barn, stables,
Iheds, barracks', &c. A large apple orchard, and a varietyof
other fruit, about 12 acres of good meadow well watered #
and wood fufficieot for fire, and fencing the prate. Polfcfli
on may be had the jft of April next. Propttfty in this city
will be taken in exchange, or NICHOLSONS
Notes in payment. Enquire at No. 37, Arch-Street.
Philadelphia, September 13, 1796. ttftf
FOR SALE/
A very Valuable Estate,
CALLED T IVITTENHAM, situate in the
township of Upper Derby, andcountyof Delaware,
7 1-2 miles from Phiiadelphia, and half a mile from tne
new Weflertiroad: containing 230 acres of excellent land,
45 of whichare good watered meadow, 9Cof'prime v. Goth
land, and thexeit arable of th« firft quality. Ihere are
on the preroifes a good two story brick koufe, with 4 rooms
on a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a pump-well
of excellent water in front; a large frame tarn, 1 tables,
and other convenient buildings; a smoke-house amHtorieJ
spring-house ; two good apple orchards, and one of P eaC
es. The fields are all in clover, except those immeiHm' y
under tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advantage
of water in each of them, whicfe renders it peculiar!) con
venient for grazing. . ,
The situation is pleasant and healthy, and from thc. i g
cultivation of theland* the good neighbourhood, an t e
vicinity to the city, it is very suitable for a gentleman s
country feat. „
The foregoing is part of the eilate of Jacoj H-rm 9
deceased, and ofered for sale bv
Mordecai Lewis,
Oft. 9. tt&r Surviving Exee« tar *
PRINTED BY JOHN J t N°*
119 —
C H E S N UT-SxV. i: ET.
[Price Eigrt Dollars per Inrn^
•f' ' f