1 !&>/
J - • * 'c i •' 'J* *
/' * i
#a|ette States, Philadelphia Dally Advertiser.
Nvmbe* 1524-1 THURSDAY EVENING; AUGUST u, 3796. . X.
. T~ . r* r» , » T-. rA » » 1 • . T?At* .QflfFa
UNITED STA TES, 7 {f_
,N THENTmeTND BY (HE AUTHORITY .
IN THK Qp T HE UNITED STATES, « P'P<
B« WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Marshal of the Pennsylvania DiUnd,—
A PROCLAMATION. I
WHEREAS the Congress of the United States, at S!
the firfl fefton of the fourth to wit, on I!
- „,mh,lav of May last part, palled all "aAJ to repral Si
, ne " an ,& to < IHbl.fli the A
tdkScourt,<rf the United States", as direds that the i
alternate feflions of the C&cu.t Court for the Diftr.a of
PennfWvania, (hall be holder at Yorktown ; and for other Ju]
;• ■„ fV,,. fnllov ins words, to wit. .
purposes, Congrcfs of the United States :
I ■
fetlnthol"December, one thousand seven hundred and
l'n Aft 6 "repeal so mucb of an aft, intituled " an ad to
el >aWi£h the judicial courts of the United State, ,as di- ancc q|
.1. fh -, alternate teffions of the said circuit court 'or ft __
the diftriit of Pennsylvania (hill be holden at York- all c#n
town ■ and for other purposes. .keDt b
«e(ft. J be it enatfed by the Senate and House of Re. oot tr)
of the United States of America, in Con- ties 311
refs assembled, That so much of the -fifth fcAron-of the for an
fcl intitu ed "an ad to eftabltihr the judicial courts of
United State*", asdireds that alternate l'eflions of the
circuit court for the diftritf of Vennfylvania foall be hold
en at Yorktown, be, and the fame is hereby repealed;
and'that all the sessions of the said circuit court (hall, from
and alter the paffirfg of this aft, be holder- at the city of
Philadelphia, excepting only, when at aire session of the
(u;a. ths judges thereof fliall direift" uie-next ieilien
to be iiolden at Yorktown , which, they are hereby autho
rized and empowered to do, whenever it (hall ajjpear to
them to be neceffiry.
Sr&; 11. And.be it further enacted, That all such pro*
a»fs ofc the said. court, as may have ifTued before the pafc
of this and all recognizances returnable, and all
fcts other t».th.
fcid circuit court for tKE diTiria of Pennsylvania, on the
eleventh of Oaober next, in Yorktown, fliall now be re
toHied, and held continued, to the fame court, on the Tor at
fame day, at Philadelphia. And to the end that suitors, _
witnefles, and all others concerned, may have notice of
the alteration hereby made, the Marshal of the said dil- Th.
ta& is hereby required- to make the fame known* by pro- WW
cJaniation, on or b«£ore the firfl day of Aeguft next. « "I
Jonathan-Dayton, '
Speaker ®f the House of P eprefentatives. p oun
Samuel Livermore, bojj
President of the Senate, pro tempore. feffe j
Approved, May-the twelfth, 1796,
Georoe Washington,
Prelideat of the United States. T<
Deppfited among the Rolls, in the Office of 'the Depart- tuoui
incut of State, . .«•
Timothy Pickering, ?' s 9
Secretary of State. hcen
I DO HEREBY MAKE KNOWN, that all' such
process of the fsid court as has, or may be iffucd, and all (^h
recognizances returnable at Yorktown aforefaid, on the elc j
1 ve»lb day of Offrber ntxt, will be returned to the Circuit of
the United States, at the City Hall, in the city ol Phila
delphia, onTuefday, the claUcnth day of oaober next, at Q
cloven o'clock in the forenoon, Asd that all foits and other p^jj
proceedings that! were continued ta-the said courts York-
town, will be held and continued at the said Circuit :
.Court, at Philadelphia, on the fame Eleventh day of °^ LO
ber next, of which ail rtjfe## |
take notice, and give their attendance thereat. _
GIVEN under my hand, at my office, in the Diftrioe
of Pannfylvania, the twenty-seventh day of July,
in the year of our Lord one thousand ieven hun- .
dred and.»inety-ux, and of ouc lndapendfnce .the A
' twsnty-firft. |
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
t MarJkaL
My >7 L- r
Just Arrived'
In th brig Betsey, and for fak by I
the ftbicriliers. . _ I anr
Forty thousand wti of very prime Coiree !y ,
in hogffieads and bags I as 1
"And, in the schooner Hoye, from New Orleans. e<i
BEEF tv> '
COTTON ®
IiIDES and lh
LOGWOOD. P u
liberal credit will be given for Approved Notes, t
Richard, and James Potter. |_
July 27. I
Bank
A number of Shares of the Stock of-the Bank of the !X.
United States, for sale. |
Enquire of theCalhier of thefwd Bank. J IV!
Aug> 9 3* Ihe
Landing
From on board the Nancy,-William Belcher, mas- I
ter, from Bourcieaux, a carpo, confining
3 60 Hhds. CHOICE CLARET,^
27.2 Cases of 24bottles each CLARET, I
2*86 do. of 24 do. WHI TE WINE, I
BRANDY, SWEET OIL, and
1 TRUNK of RIBBONS,
For Sale by
P. Coppingei.
July 23. t!: :
just Arrived, I
In the Snow Boston, James Kirkpatrick, master from Li- I
i verpool,
5000 Bulhels SALT ;
100 Crates QUEENS WARE; and
An Aflbrtment of SHIP CHANDLEWY ;
FORSALE 1(1
On board, at Pine-street wharf.-—Apply to I n
"James Campbell, or
George Latimer.
April 19. I
Wanted,
A Partner with a small capital to unite in the businesS I
of a Mill and Distillery in Virginia. Inquire oi 1
the Printer. Aug. 9 S IW J
lufurance comp. of the state of L
Pennsylvania.
The Dire&ors have declared a dividend of fixtcen dol
lars on each lhare of the capital of said company, for the J
lad fix months which wiH be paid to the (lockiiolders or I
f heii legal rcprcfcntatives on every day the jotl. |
iiiflirt. y I
S. W. Ftjher,
, \ Seprei ;.ry. ' !
•Aiguft 1. liict- !
FOR SALEi
WINE, London particular"Madeira, r years old, y,
in pipes and hoglhtads
Claret, genuine old, in cases jjaQapS
Giu. in pines, ftom Holland \j3pWj
Eartb-n are, in crates --HSSsh
Basket Salt, in hogftieads WII L
Shot, Nds. 6, 7, 1 and 9 ter on b
li»r Red and white dry lead
Steel, German and Russia, in barrels
Authors, caWes, junk, bunting, tiryxilin canvasj A^g.
Tin plates—An invoice Stationavv. by -—-—
THOMAS & JOHN KETLAND.
July 7i) §
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given, j I%^
TH AT agreeablv to an aft of Congress of the United !
States of Amcrica, pasTed at Philadelphia, the 28th'day v r*
of Mav, 1796 ; laying duties on Carriages, for the convey- , third w
ance of perions, ?nd repealing the former afta for that pur- pofijivi
poft.—'l'hat there'{hill be levied, and paid, up#p W ell ac
all carriages for the conveyance of perions, which 1 Ihall be
kept by or for any person, for his or her own use, or to let '
out to hire, or for the conveying of passengers, the several du- 0
ties and rates following, to wit.
- For and upon every Coach,.ls dois.
l upon every Chariot, 1 a dols. p
upon.every Pofl: Chariot, i« doss; , .
upon every Post Chaise, 12 dols.
; upon every Phaeton, with or without top, 9 dols
t upon every Coachee, 9 dols.
f upon other Carriages, having pannei work above,
, with blinds* gaffes or * tains, 9 dols.
J upon four wheel carriages, naving framed posts and built,
tops with steel springs, 6 dolsi found
upon sow wheefr top Carriages, with wooden or iron
jacks, 3 dol?. On!
upon cumcles with tops, g dols. wharf,
upon chaises with tops, 3 dols.
" upon chairs with tops, 3 dols. j
uft>n Tulkies with tops,
1 upon oiher two v.TifTTtop.carriages, 3 dols. Juh, 1
e upon two wheel carriage*, with tteel of irbn springs,
3 dols r-y
c For and upon all other two whfcel caniages, 2 dols, 1
i, _ upon every four wheel having framed posts
if . and tops, and reftiug.upon wooden spars, 2 dols.
['- The Colli ftors of the Revenue of the firfl lurvey ot the
1- Dtftrift-of Pennsylvania. will attend'daily, unliithe 30th day
of September next, for the purpose oi receiving the dunes on
« Carriages, at No. ti?, in Race or Saflafrai flrcetrthe-City
of Philadelphia, at the house of DaniefS. Ciaiij fc'fl ni the
County of Montgomery ; and at the house of Abiaham Du
bois, Esq. in the Uucks; of which all perfons»poi
such Carriages are defiredto take-notiee.
Notice is also given,
TO allVetail dealers Mn Wir.es, and foreigf» diiUlfed fp.ii
t- tuous liquors, thit licences will be granted 10 them ; one li
for carrying on the business 01 retailing.oi Wine a, in a
less quantity, or in less quantities than 30 gjijlons—--and orrt
licence for carrying on thl bufinefi of retailing Spirituous Ij
l j qucrs in lelsquanii&ies than 20 gallons,at time and j u
j at th&fame places, by the-oJftcera legally authorized tograut
. (uch licences. «
le '\ * WILLIAM NICHOLS, 1
Infpe&dr of the Revenue of t'ne
\ «f.thedillrVftt)f PepnlyWaAia.
at OSjceof InfpeOion,at ) S 3'
ltr Philadelphia, 21ft July, J
k- 1 - -
Sa.lt Petrc. . /j;
** l~ .V'ATow t«nsof"eKeilent a
i(f EA&T-INDIA SALT-PETRE,
! 0t ro« SAtE 3 Y y
til I Samuel Breck, jun.
-he J AUg« 9. eo6 Rofs s Wharf j
A well-finiflled, commodious Jj
HOUSE S
For Sale, and immediate pojjiffion given, Q
, pi ITUATE on the north fide of Spruce llreet, No. ni,
' ' I between Fourth and Fifth streets. The-houfe, piazza rou
I and back buildings are three stories in height, and pel fefi«
€£ I iy well adapted for the accommodation of a large family,
I as they contain tv/elve good rooms, exelufive of two ciel
-led parrets. In the yard, which'is neatly paved, there are ' ]
I two pumps ; one in a rain cistern, the other of as good —
1 water as any iatke city i The cellars are dry and large.
1 The terms of payment will be easy : a great part of the
I purchase-money in all probability may lay for years on in- In
> 5 I tefeft. Apply at Nd. 109, next dsor ealtward. r(
1 J«lr 3° § lw 6o<
I ' An
ii- Wm. HOLDERNKSSE,
' No. 76 High Street,
she j TTAS received, by the latest arrivals from Europe and
j JTi the East Indies, a well feleifted assortment of Silk
j Mercery, Linen Drapery and Haberdathery Goods; which *
3t he will fell, Whokfale and Retail, on the lowest terms ; J
"v -1 I ' AMONaST WHICH ABE,' ( „,|
Some fine India muffins embroidered with gold and fflver Fc
mas- I Superfiue Book, Jaconet, and Mulmul ditto
I p 0 do do do Handlverchiefs _
j Some extra black, taffeties,lu«ftrings and colored Persians
I Bandano Handkerchiefs
I Long,and short Nankeens
I Englilb Mantuas of the firft quality
! Damaik table linen and napkins, very fine j
I Silk Hosiery, an elegant a£fortm«nt f
I Tliead and cotton do
Umbrellas—green Clk, oil'd dpi and do cloth **
. j French cambrics, very fine g S
(l.f 1- Irish Linens, do. &c. &c. June 14 §
_ UNITED STATES, J §cu
nLri " Pennsylvania District, j
" Notice is hereby given,
I pursuant to a Writ so me dire<9:ed, from the ho
-1 norable Richard Peters, Efquirc, Judge of the Di-
I ftridl Court ot the United States in and for the Pennfylva-
I nia Diftrifl,
ir I Will be rxpofeil to Sale, \
I at thie Custom-House, on Monday, the 15th day of Au
. gust, 3 Bags of COFFEE
S I 1 Bbl. SUGAR \
1 Half do. do.
a Do. do. TAMARINDS
ifinefs I 3 Kegs do.
re 01 I a Bags of Sugar and
iw 1 3 Do. Coffee .
7- The fame having tees libelled a 150 in ft. prosecuted, and
I Oi I condemned .as forfeited, in the said court-
WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marshal.
j Marlhal's Office, 30th Jul}-, 1796.
n dol- I ~ ~~
Prime Rice. i
erß or I t
One Hundred Tierces of Prime Rice,
, 1 ltrtl arrived in thebr-ig W'e'.come Return, from Savan
ry. I JUforftlebT FOOTMAN ,3c CO
lit. I iQS/S 4
| For T}
PATTY,
James Wiokham> M«*er,
Ex|ujcled to fail in all next week, 1 °£ el
WILL take 3. few barrels on freight'. Appjy td the mas- 01
ter on board a' Stamper's wharf, or to ► m 1
John jDonnaldfon,
No. 25 Wolnut-llr'eet. Jrhjlfl
i. 4 57 J^a
For Rotterdam, . w .
The ftip, X th
CATITARINE,
i John Farraixav, Majier, their ft
d 1 npwo thirds «f iter cargo w'ill'be on. •f D ®
iy - board this week. THc'remaining j t '\ e
j third will be taken on freight it offcVed foonj will: 1
r " positively fail in all next week A few patfengers can be <^eo^£ c
n well accommodated. F«r terms of . freight or paflage,
jC apply to the captain on board at Mr. Huddle's wharf, or I cr * e
ct to JOHN CRAIG, | fecry ar
J * , aup. 8 § -No. li Dock-ftreeti ick-tow
* j ■ I urday,
For Sale, Freight, or Charter, 1 atfphia
The Schooner 1 Tusfda
ANGELICA, 1 the fair
' c> NE hundred aud twenty ton»-biri-th'er»— I " 10rmr
' fix a ftkunch,'-faah^iliy-I j cr ., ea . c
id built, fact-failing vessel, handsomely finifhed off, and well j Irs
found inevejy particular. For terms apply to I tels ' 11
OT B. RHODES, j Is °' w
On board said schooner, lying at Bifqkley and Bohien's I
wharf, the firllabo.ve<Markct-ftreet. jF' -
WHEKE TBERS ARE FOR SALE, I
A .fern half-bbls. Prime Mejfr Beef. .
— Jufy li>. ' ' S. 1 —
gs, , I, Sft
This Day commenced Landing
'^ s At ifflitas whkrf, the cargo of the Brig Lucy and Sloop 1
' St. Jago, from-St. Jago de Cuba—conlffting of j: » '
J White and Brown Box SUGAR. twohi
a " MOLASfvES, of'an excellent quality. | a *-- ar
COFFEE. ' Itomac
th c HIDi.3 and HONEY. Alfoi
For Sale or Charter.
' A 011 f ' ftrohg vessel, will carry a-I
• 100 barrels, and may go to I
sea with a very small expense.
ln ' a The alsuve will be fold for calh cr approved notes.
onp Samuel Emery,
s li- No. 64, south Second-street.
July 27, 1796. r dtf- J
rjiit ' . - - 1 —— I-
For Boston,
rvey The Schooner
Friendlhip, £
.. \ 1 qmri
Joseph Mathews, Master, j
\ ftoHt) staunch vessel—will, fofiMvely faii on Satnr- I ' ,j.
/ > day next, and will take lreig)it on very, low terms. 1
i "I' t*" miftrr rn hn ird-at,Hj
AV.g.B _ tF _ | S -
— I
For Sale, f e
rfj Or for Charter to the Wefl'-Indics, 1
THE SH,P I
ius C E R S,
Philadelphia built,
GELive Gait and Red Cedar, burthen ahout 3500 bar- I
rels, how discharging at I.atimer's wharf, l'hisvei- I
111, fel, is-in excellent repair, well fouud-and will bear a tho- j
lazza rough examination-, andflsfoon as difcharged-will be ica
dy to take in'a cargo. For.terms apply to jf/
John- Vaughan.
reare § |J
go°d — " w i
J f ar t s h e e Just Arrived,
'in- In the (hip Molly, John F.oft, Master, from Liverpool, loi
5000 Bushels Best fine ftoved SALT, 11
2VV 600 Bulhels HOUSE COAL, 1
And 118 Crates of QUEENS WARE affortcd,, •
FOR SALE SY J p]
'» .Philip Nicklin & Co.
, . - N. B. THE ID
f ® ilk Ship MOLLY,
which TS for SALE or CHARTER, Ihe is j
mt ; 1 years old, Philadelphia built, of white 1
, iX, and carries about 4.00 barrels of Flour. r_
1 fflver Fo: terms applfas above. I -
July ' dLt I R
iefs — I w
crfians For HAMBURGH,
I . LfV THE SHIP I tl
John, _
Robert Jackson, Master, I si
'■}■> To fail in fifteen days,
HAVING two-thirds of her cargo en- I j
gaged and ready to J-o on board. For freight or paflage a
' 5 apply to the master on board at Wain's wharf, or to
John Donnaldfon, Ifi
Ne. 24 Walnut-fticet. I' l
Jult it- ■ §6eotf
£ c k For jEREMIE,
infylva- The schooner Hope,
of au- Brig Betley.
THEY are fact-failing vessels, and have elegant accommo- j
dations. For pafiage only, apply to
Richard James Potter, |
AU g. 5 § No. 8 north Fr^nt-ftreet.
; ed, and p or g a ] e 0 r Charter,
BURTHEN about aooo Bbls.'of flour—lke may be sent i
to fca at a small exppnee, her fails and rigg?»g beingim J
„ . very good order—apply to |
Rice, James Campbell, or
1 £ a ™ n " ; George Latimer. 1
> April 19, .
For Sale,
A Three story BRICK. HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut
street, between Front and Second [triers, in which
MeflVs. JSmcs Calbraith & G6. hare for many fears (and
now do) carried on bbfinefs.
Poffeffian will he given, in one month, or sooner.
For terms apply ta WILLIAM BELL, or
HECTOR. CALBRAITH.
April'ai. 5
Philadc!phia> Weft- Chettcr>, Strajlntrgh,
Lancmltr, Tork atid Frederick•tev.m
S 7 A G E S.
THEptoprie'ors of the,above Stages, return their bed
thanks to their friend* and the public in general, for
the encouragement received in this line of bofinefs, and beg
leuTe to inform the public, tlKit rtity are determined to run
their stage? thhitrgh fr»m Philadelphia to Lartcafter in
n cne-day, commencing on Tmtfday, ,the 14th July inllant,
lr . in the following manner, —via. A Stage will set. ou: on
[l that day. at 4 o'clock in the morning, from the houl'e- o£ t
e 'George Weed, Market-Greet, Philadelphia, and run by ,
the vray of-Weftcnefter and Straftmrgh, arrive irj LaHcaf
ter. the fame evening, on Friday morning run to Wrighr'i
fenry and'exehimgc paflengers with the York and Fredej
ickrtown flag«, return andatrive in Philadelphia on Sit- j
urday, and on Monday morning following, at 4 o'clock, \
fa id stage vtillTet out fiom the said Ceorge Weed's, Phila
delphia, and' arrive at' I.ancaft£r the fame evening, 00
Toefday mornin«fat 4 o'claek wtll fee out from the hoiil'e
oiiMns.ExHvards, Lancaftar, and arrive in Philadelphia
the fame evening., and will commence again on Thurlday
morning .following, and continue overy week—The price
for each paflenger from Philadelphia to Lancaster is, three
im dollira arrd a half, to York, font dollars and three qsar-
I dftif to Frederick town eight dollars, the like sums for
I Jsoiweigbc baggage, with thrf afual alVowance of 14 lb.
. j gratis to each pauaugtr, and pepce a. irjle. sol all way
1 S j oaffengers. 39 —54 w
John Ti.eiUy,
j • George Weed.
Mr VVrairntTgton Canal .Lottery,
NO. I.
op I '"JET HERE AS the State of. Maryland has authorifcd
W the. underwritten, to rajfe-.yventy-fw thoufci*d,
I two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpofa of cutcing
I a Canal through, the Washington, from th tfo
I 'tbmacto theEaft'ern Branch Harbour.
I' ThSiToUowing is UieSCttEME.of No. I.
I Vie .i;lVizeiof2o,ooo dollars, 20,000
j 1 ditto xo,ooo 10,000.
j rUSisn»»'
( !* o I 6 ditto I,OQO 6,000
' J 10-ditto 400' 4,0t3"
I 20 ditto 100 »,coia
55 . ditto 50 2,7J£*;
5750 ditto H CjijOoS,
I To be raised for the Canal,. a6,25p
585 a Prizes, > 175.9°°"
1. 11650 Bldnks, nat tw« ttJ a priie.
17_500-Tickets l atTen,Do]Jar», -
j' Commiflioners have taken the Securities ,r«'
j q«ired"by the aforefaid aft for the punctual payment of
j the prizes.
j The drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
rlns ' I delay, as soon as the Tickets axe fold, of which.timely
p j notice will he given.
1 Such pr izes ! as are not demanded in fix months after the
I drawing is finifhed, Ulall be confidercd as reliriquifhed for
I 'the-bencfit (A the Canal; and appropriated accordingly.
: (Signed j NOTLEY YOUNG,
, DANIEL CARROLL, o/D.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M,DUNC ANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
3 bar- JAMES BARRY.
isvef- City of WalMntrtom, Fib. ll'. 5
'ett ELL EPH ANT.
This Animal is to .br seen in High-Street, between
1. j the Tenth and the Eleventh-Street.
§ IT TE will positively leave Philadelphia the tend) of Sep-
I J""l. temher, for Baltiiuere, in his way to Charleston,
I where he will win er
I ADMITTANCEHaIf a Dollar—quarter of a Dollar
3001, I for Children
TT 1 The-'PANORAMAj or, the VIEW of the CITIES o{
1 > LONDON and WESTMINSTER^
1 Is to be opes till the loth ess September, and the fub
-1 je<St will then be removed to Baltimore with the ELE
PHANT.
3. ADMITTANCE for the PANORAMA,
I One quarter of a Dollar.
j August 3. f
;'i; TAKE NOTICE, '
F Flour. I r T"'HAT application will be made for the renewal of
I X the following certificates, iffiied by Joseph Nourfei
dlf I Register of the Treatyry, in thr name of Roger GriC
I wold, Esq. of Norwich, Conneiflicut—
I 1 certificate, fix per cent domestic flock, No. 13,907
—dated the 17th December, (795, bearing interest from,
the firft day of January, 1591, for 1,597 65-100 d°l-
I 1 ditto, cent, domestic ftock> No. i 0,68*
5 —dated December 16, 1795, bearing interest from the
> firft day of January, 17.91, for 994 30-100 dollars.
1 ditto, deferred stock, No. 9^166 —dated'the 17th
r-gp en- I D ecem bef, 1795, bearing interest from the firft Janu
paflage I ig 01) f or 7 gß gj-joo dollars.
0 I Said -certificates are supposed to have been loft of
in, I flo'.en in this city feme time in December or Janua:y
» Icet I last.
6 eotf JOSEPH THOMAS,
No. 59, Ndrth Front-street.
Philadelphia, July 21, 1796. d6«r.
| " CABLES,
* 'I From ifrto 9 i-inches, for faleby
Jtramah Warder,
f u ]ylj 5 No ii northThird-llrect.
common J 1 **
!Cr I Sales of ladia Goods.
flreet.. j The Cargo ef the (hip.Ganges, capt. Tingcy, from Cal
iCutu and Bengal,
I CONSISTING OF
j y» Ij3rge-aiid general afiortment of Bengal and Madra»
£\ COTTON and SILK GOODS. '
AMONG W.HtCir.ATLE
! A variety jine. worked and plain MuJlinSy
Nj A Iso,
r -be sent ■ A Quantity of Kxedlevt Sugar,
beingtin 1 ln*boit» and bags'—and BfcACK PEEPER,
For Sale by
or J Willing* & Francis*
J . No. %l Pe4o Sowtt.
§i June 8 5s* /. . n arc
Further particulars «f tlkiaie Confptraej a! Paris. an£ ,
Translated for the New-2'cri Gazette. t | lc
Mr. M'Lean, Ma
Suppoling that any information the late
conspiracy at paris, will be pleasing to the
readers of your gazette, I fend you a tranflatjon —
of the principal point! of a declaration made by
Georgk Grisel, captain of the 2d company
of the 3d battalion of the 38th half brigade, to «< 5
tne Executive Directory on the 15th of l'loreal.
This being the fjrft pkee that led to the disco
very of the it was in consequence D f
of it that Babceuf and others were arretted on eX[
the 20th of the fame month, and examineJ on he
the 21 A. [See the New-York Gazette of Sa- dr<
tnrday iaft.J «nl
IN the firfl place, Grifel informs the Directory,
that be had been initiated in the conspiracy for up- er
wards of a month pad ; he then cxcufes himfelf °
for not hating made the discovery sooner; and a- 1 '
moug the reafoni he givei for the delay, the prin- eI
-cripal one, he fays, was to obtain fufficient inform- r
at ion *' of the extent and ramifications of the plot, an
and a pcrfenal acquaintance with the chief confpir- '
ators." °?
He then relates, that on one of the last days of 11
Germinal, he was met by one Meugmer, a taylor e
by trade ! with whom he had been acquainted in ''
I*B9. The man of (hears informed bim, he had °
been imprisoned fix months at Pleffis, on account,
ss he said, of his patriotifin ; and he desired him
to accompany him to the Geneva cofFee-houfe, 0
where he found a number of neighbour's friends a
ex-prisoners like himfelf; and who at his inflance
received him as one of the brotherhood.—Grifel, jjl
however, not very well pleafejl with the " ultra- '
revolutionary conversations" of such patriots, re- t0
solved not to visit W em again.
On the 2d inft. he was accosted near the Greve, #s
by one of the fame Jacobin patriots, called Mo- w
nfc»n ...vK—, 1.-
of his friends.—ln the course/os conversation, he P'
confidentially informed him of the existence of a "
iecret committee of public fafety and of infurrec- ''
tion ; and that the itlfarijeftion which he, the quoa- 1
dam belt-maker was ! was nigh at hand :
"On this information," fays*Grifel, " I perceiv- w
ed that an opportunity has offered of gloriously P'
serving my country. I seized it, and thsrefore lR
armed myfelf with dissimulation."
The two patriots invited Grifel to the Temple 31
of Reason (for so they called the CofFee-houfe,
known by the name of the Chineie Baths) where w
he found a confufed affembly.of both sexes, whose 8
coßverfation, fengs, and four looks, recalled to a
mind the dreadful reign of terror.
His two mentors praised his Robefpierian zeal—, 0
his own discourse confirmed their assertions, and he c
was soon surrounded and caressed by the whole a
1!
groupe.
A man who appeared to be one of their chiefs, P
and whose name he afterwards found to be Darthe, j
paid htm particular attention, and gave him /ome J
of Baboeuf's pamphlets. that if he
could procure this fellow's acquaintance, be might, *
through him, acquire more information refpe&ing P
the confutation. He proposed to compose a pam
phlet with Jacobinical ttyle ; which being accept- v
ed, he iinifhed it the fame evening, and to be di- v
ftributed throughout the Republic. It confided of J'
a preamble of Bor 10 articles, nnd an order for a
the people to fall, without diflinftion, on the Di- v
rectory and Bodies!
He then read a Proclamation, which was to make n
its appearai.ee (übfequent to the last-mentioned a
piece, ordering the general pillage and slaughter of
the rich—the aobledw'-the priests, and of all the au- 1
thorities—An amendment was added to this aft, c
more terrible than all the relt—they were received
by the conspirators with general applause. After
wards appeared a lift of upwards of 60 Chiefs of f
Infurreftion who were to aft in different places.
In the course of the conversation, Grifel difcov- '
ered that Felix Pelletier procured the neeeffary
funds, and that Drouet was to head the infurrec- !
tion. . 1
The Siying terminated at 7 P. M. when it was
resolved :—
1. That the Committee of Infurreftion fhonld
hold their next meeting at another house. » .
2. That Roffignol, Ger|nain, Mansard, Fay
an, and himfelf (Grifel) should be a Military Com
mittee, charged to prepare the military means of '
inforreftion, and to correspond with the Secret '
Commitiee, through Germain. This Committee !
fat on the 12th and 13th. '
Grifel concludes his declaration, by affirming
that Drouet and Baboeuf visited each other daily, '
and that the latter frequently composed the speech- )
es the former was to deliver in the Council of 500
—delivered if to him the next day at the Coffee- '
House. It pleased Darthe (an ex-secretary of Jo 1
feph Lebon), who promised to have it printed, and '
desired him to call the next day for a few hundred '
copies, to distribute among the troops.
The next day lie delivered him about one hund- 1
red copies of his pamphlet, and also fom-papers un
der cover, which he made him hide in his bof&m, '
and desired him not to open it 'till he was at home
and by himfelf. 011 opening it, he found it was '
a Brevet of secondary and military agent of the secret
Committee of Public Safety and InfurreSion, with
infiruftions at larga and information concerning the
plans hi the Secret Committee, and of his duties.
Grifel's duty at camp prevented him from feeing
Darthe until the nth, when he sent a meflagede
firing to fee him ; he accordingly went to his house,
where not finding bim, lie was concluded by a per
son who was there to another house, where he saw
Darthe and four other perfons—Darthe immedi
ately feid to him :—" Dear friend, the boar of re
venge being at hand, and the Tocsin of Liberty |
being about to- be rung, the Committee has thought
proper to strengthen the zeal of the Chiefs of the
Infurreftion by, admtiting them into its bosom to
con.ert together the plan of exscution."—"Be
hold,** continued he, "our worthy chiefs, who a.
lone are acknowledged as such by every true patri
ot ; wh« will feoo diieft irfurreftion; you
. are not yet acquainted with them—welljU«o, Ba-
1 ccaf, ©ertrain, Bnaaarolte and D dnif.■;
are fame others, but bui.oeis prevents tlu.r attend
anee" Thev then embraced each other.
Some time after, three other Conspirators, to wit,
the ex-general Fayan, ex-generalßoffignol.and
Mansard, a displaced officer, joined the Con pna
CT Babceuf then read the aft of infurreftion, of
which it was decided to print 6 0 ,°0 0 cop'es-
for the Farmer's Weelly Museum. m«
THE L4T PREACHER.
" Tet did not the chief butler remember Joftfih, bu ed
forgat him ," ! lc
THIS was a moll unlucky instance of Hi irtnels inv
of memory, and a ft range one too, for Jofcph had (' Jf
expressly stipulated with the imprisoned bmler, that on
he should recollect the favorable interpreter of bis c h|
dream, and obtain from Pharoah an orcirr for Ms w.
"Forget him ! I« it possible ? Did the chief but- ftu
ler, as he filled the cup to Pharoah, taste the wine th«
■ so often, that it made him stupid or mad ? Was re
the vine juice of Egypt ever mixed with poppy wa- fcl
ter, that it might, like the fabled river of oblivion an
drown memory and her tribes ? As I know of no wf
' ancient record, that alludes to this prafl.ee,and in trj
' the biography with which Moles has indulged us,
of tVic chief butler not a syllable is said, concerning be
t his debauchery, I believe that the supposition that ge
he was a toper must be waved. We mull look a tb
little deeper than the bottom of a glass, or even a ex
J bottle to difcovet the fouree of a eourtier's ingra- th
titude. la '
' Let us look, therefore, once more into the book mi
1 of Genesis, and I trust, that so lucid an Hiltorian, rei
' as Moses, will shed light upon ihis sombre fubjeft. mi
It appears Joseph, of an attcinpt
upon the virtue of Potiphar's wife, was by the in- as
' ttigation of that harridan of antiquity, committed ch
to prison. According/to the sacred text, this was co
a State prison, a kind of Egyptian tSaflile, where, pc
as we read, " The King's prisoners were bound " ot
' wher? meaner felons were excluded, and none were m
'1 Kilt -»»«l -retainers to the nc
° palace, as had, by their carelessness or their critnes, w
forfeited the royal favor. It is no great wonder Si
then that a couple of who had such tli
frequent temptations to cheat, as a butler and a ba- "
" ker, should be put in ward. Light bread and four fu
wine had been rendered in the palace, and theabuied ft
palate of Pharoah was offended. Joseph, who had c<
ingratiated himfelf with the chief goaler, was ap- ti
pointed a fort of deputy or turnkey of the prison, di
e and had the charge of these vety delinquents. d'
One morning, " Behold they were fad and b
"' e when interrogated concerning the cause of their ai
* e gloom, they informed Joseph that they had dreamed o
and there was no interpreter. The chief tutler then rt
related that he had seen in a vision a clustered vine, t<
of triple branches, whose gtapes he preffedinto the fc
cup, and gave into the hand of Pharoah. Joseph, a
I after comforting the ptifoner by familiarly explain- si
ing his dream and promiling him reftoraiion to his w
s post in the houfchold, pathetically befeeches-him q
that he would in his prosperity reflect on his unjull- t
' e ly accufedfriend,, and mention him to his prince. f<
" Think on me, fays the beautifully simple original, d
t when it shall be well with thee, and (hew kinduefs I si
' pray thee, unto me, and make mention of me to o
Pharoah, and bring me out of this house." This d
( was] surely an easy service ;an3 on the third day, b
when Pharoah feafted his servants, when amid the t
jollity of ail entertainment, the released butler flood ii
)r at the elbow of his appeased sovereign, what a fa- 11
vorable moment tofuggell the propriety of loosing
poor Joseph, who had been so unjuftiy bound. But I
ce mark an obsequious, callous, courtly slave. Intent a
alone upon his own prosperity, he is so bafy in fil- (
ling the ruddy cup for his king and for himfelf, that 1
u _ not a thought of him who has nothing to f
drink, but his own tears and the waters of afflidfion. c
A felfifh and ungrateful man, though he should out- a
, r . live the oldest of the patriarchs, and allay she thitft f
o £ of a lineage of Egyptian monarchs would not once j
think of his benefactor, nor call to mind that vision- c
v _ ary vine which he had fecn in adversity. No ; a 1
chief butler would have much a more lucrative em- 1
, c _ ployment than thinking upon the " Sorrowfulfigh- t
ing of a prisoner." The chief butler did not rem«m- f
as ber Joseph, but forgat him. t
And are there not a thousand worldly rcafors for t
lid 'hu forgetfulnefs ? Prudence f.iight vvhifper to the t
butler as he walked through the prison gate, not to r
lisp the name of Joseph, for possibly it might anger i
in. Pharaoh, and then his favor would be withdrawn, t
and the lutlerjhip ! «Besides, we (hould remember 1
that this dreamer-in prison was a very courtier in I
ee the palace ; watchful enough of his own, and "deal- 1
ing out his promises as • liberally as his Jiquor." 1
np When Joseph had unravelled his entangled dreams, (
I ' and foretold that he (hould again have the keys of 1
I Pharaoh's beaufet and cellar, I dare affirm that the (
3Q butler, vvith cringing complaisance, with low bows (
e _ and a perpetual smile, engaged upon his honor not j
o merely to remember, but to remunerate his deliver- t
nd er " was of a courtier.—And i
ed 18 'g nor ant that his engagements, like " your <
humble servant" at the t.ottom of a challenge, <
|£ ] mean, if they have any meaning, nothing but death ,
/n . an d dellrudlion ?—Many are the promises ef the
chief butlers, the Chefterfields, the smooth-tongued
n'e men of the wotld. They hp them too— but so
;as c ty e ' w^ eJI l he day"»f peiformance arrives.
ret nat even thcir owner can find them—mifiaid in
fame ohf ure corner of mrmorv's eheft !
Will be ianded,
n « N ' | G MORROW, from on board the Vchooner £xpedi-
X tion r
fe, St. Croix Rum&Sugar,
er- For Sale by F. COPPINGER,
aw ? 231 South Front-ftfeet.
di- " BY AN A T IST,
re- Res.dent at Mr. Oellers't Hotel,
l\l miniatu re likenesses
the A R E tak cnai'd executed in that elegant and delicate
X -V. ttilc, which is 10 neeeffary to render a Miniature PiC
to ture an intefefting jewel.
Be- He will warrant a strong and indisputable refeln
a< blance; and he takes the liberty to lay before the public
tri- t ' l ' s plaeehismoft earned intention to deserve their p*.
tronage by his best endeavors to please.
' 0U N. B. Specimen# are to be seen.
13a- May 11. j
Philadelphia, T '
THURSDAY EVENING, August H- ot |
« PUBLIC SCHOOLS. e '
— of
No. VL cat
, SOCIETY is formed for the general benefit of coi
the individuals who.compose it. Eveiy arrange- P r(
m«nt calculated 10 promote Ihe iritereL ot the com
munitv, comes within the limit, of this acknow- >•»
1 ledged principle. Apply 'his to ehejubjeet of pub
lie schools—it will be found on the mod minute fu
i invefligatioto, that without the interposition of the
I ftipreme power, in making public adrcjuate provifi- <r
on for the education of the general niafs of the T
i children of the commonwealth j'by far the majority v*i
s will be brought up ia ignorance, of the molt com
mon and eiTential branches of learning. Fads are
■ stubborn, and cannot be set aside. Is it not true
: then, that, more than one half of the children who th«
s reside in thof'e of our large cities, where no public th «
- schools exist, are not inftrudted in reading, writing we
1 and arithmetic? If this is the cafe in the cities, c, »
5 what mult be the fad in relation to the sparse coun- ot
i try settlements ? Knowledge is the basis of free- z<:i
, 4pm, order and public tranquility ; and these will
j be enjoyed by a community, in proportion to its & r
t general dilfufion among the people. Ignorance is
a the parent of servility, vices', confu-fion and public 1(iI
a expence. It will not, we presume, be denied that
- the people have a right to demand, that their legif- lar
lature (hotild interfere in this business, when it ae
i must be confefled by all, that without this irterfe- 011
, rence, no adequ % provision ever was, or will be co
. made in any country under heaven.
t The rich and the rr.iddling classeS of citizens are
- as ftnlible of the importance of education to their ™
i children, as ofi food and raiment, and provide ac
s cordingiy ; but the third class, the poor, who com ™
■, pose the majority, and certainly as important as the ol
" other two, without the interposition of govein- a J*
e meet, are and will b£ left entirely destitute. lean- t "
x not do equal j lift ice to this part of the fubjedt,
s, with a late writer in the " Delaware and EaJ\ern "
:r Shore Advertiser," published in Wilmington. He -
h thus elegantly and energetically expresses himfelf-—
a- " By the nation alooe can national education be
lr supported—Every free citizen is the child of the
:d (late, and to the "Ttaie it belongs exelufively to edu- D
id i cate hinh To the (late he looks up for his educa- to
j tion as 2 right without which other right, of free- p;
n, dom cannot be enjoyed : For, in fact, what is free- fu
dom when clouded by ignorance, or misrepresented di
id by prejudice ? What are all its boasted priviledges pi
:ir and enjoyWnts, when deprived of the glorious rays m
?d of knowledge and wisdom, which alone can give a a
en relish and value to any of them ? It appears then
e, to me tv that when men unite in a facial compadt,
fie founded upon liberty, they stipulate, at least virtu
h, ally, among other rights, for the benefit of an ufe
n- ful education, such as may raise indigence to a level
us with opulence in point of literary and fcientific ac- j
m quirements, and place within the reach of every ci-
It- tizen that common (lock of human ideal, and con
:e. fcquently of human happiness, which uature*evi
al, dently intended for all.—Let every freeman there- r<
il fore, be ?.s jealous of this sacred right, as of any n
to others that contlitute freedom. .Uet every candi
lis date to their fuffrages be fufpe&ed as inimical to li- '1
y, bctty, who fl)ews any backwardnef. towards promo- n
he ting a liberal and public education. A friend to P
r>d ignorance, is a triend to oppression, unworthy the
fa- notice and patronage of, every liberal man." e
ng That principle of universal charity and benevo- d
ut lence, for which the friends of man in all countries P
nt are decided advocates—and which the people called
il- Quakers, profefs to consider as the key (tone of So
iat ciety, speaks with irrefutable emphasis on this occa
to fion. Even that partial churity, which impels this
in. denomination in a particular manner to provide so
Jt- amply, so scrupulously for the youth of its own per
rft suasion, lias no dividing line to separate it ftopt the
ice genuine impulses of real patriotism, which embra
m- ccji in the bonds of love, the whole family of man
a kind. lam not in favor of regulations which (hall
m- needlessly bear hard on any body or defeviption of
;b- men ; and if a provifocan be incorporated in a law
m- for the establishment of public schools, which (hall '
exempt any particular description of people from
[or the general tax for that purpose, without opetating
he to the injury and deftru&ion of the fyltem, in the
t« name of juftiee, let It take place ; but if not, (and
;er it is very much to be doubted, whether such exemp- <
tions would not be radically mischievous,) there is 11
>er not a man of any denomination, who pofTefTcs teal
in benevolence of heart, and a found undemanding of
al- his own interest, and that of the public, who would
r- hesitate to pay his full, legal proportion of such tax,
ns, over and above what his volantary contribution may
of be for tne support of local partial institutions. So
the farfromThefepartial institutions, affording' any tuft
ws objcdion to the general fyitem contended for, rhey
w>t give inconteftible evidence of the superior ability of 1
er- their friends, to contribute to its support. And
nd what is equally true, the latter system, in its operati-
JUr on will enereafe that abibity ; for knowledge retiu -
ge, ces the expenccs of government, in a ratio to its <
a th colt, m.ere than a thousand fold.
tl " E.
Jfd « (
so From the COLUMBIAN CENTINEL
res. 1
' 111 COMMUNICATION.
WHILE some of our pretended patriots, whose
zeal has run-away with their memories and difcreti
sdi. on ' -continually harping on the early aud im
menlc fwnfices made by our French and Dutch al
lies, in our revolution, and the avidity (hewn by
them in acknowledging oar independence, and as-
K"» fr ®m pure affedipn ;we fee the Convent!-
on of France, on the one hand denying the fait,
and imputing the word of motives to the friendfh-'p
of Lewis XVI. and on the other hand, we behold
ES "ew Dutch Republic, endeavouring to acqu t
cate \ cmfelvef of the ;mputatiou :—For we fee in the 1
Pie . declaration of War, against Great-Britain, iuft if
lued, and which is dated from the Hague, Mav 2
bHc 1 7 9 6 « th c following exculpatory and 'apologeucal -
p ; paragraphs:-.. When England attested, by
he force of arms, to fflbjjgate her American Co
lonies, which (he had driven to a just ol i •
S -»nd when the scourge of war extended her
empires ; the States General of the United P-. : .
viiicci were cartful to i-bfove a tirict neutrality
They did hot fuffer Dutch vrffels to transport ».'»
other commodities to" AriKiiui, those <exceo(.
E.i which were declarer! frle b\ the fcicptefs ter;ns
of treaties. The molt efßcn.-iuus precaution * wcie '
carefully taken to prevent wnrlikc Korea forp be,',,,,
conveyed to the American colonics, a» wr!l j,
prevent any fraudulent commerce from being cairi
ed On with them : Precautious which did not a
little (hackle and injure oui own commerce t 0 t J )e
Weft-Indies. —It availed the Republic, however
but little, to obfervu the conditions of treaties with'
exaftnefs, as to what was by .them prohibited ;tl\-
English Ministers confuting merely their termor/,
ry convenience, went so far ss to dispute what these
very' treaties allowed : They not fufFe r the
Republic to enjwv those very advantages which
England heifelf had enjoyed in a iimilar cafe; but
violating the rights of nations, they condemned
the cargoes as piiztsto the crown, and employed
the materials in the royal atfenals : Other veiTels
were forfeited by the arbitrary fentencei of partial
courts of jnltics. The privateers and armed fliipj
of England, feeing that their piracies were legali
zed, multiplied thair depredations, and the merchant
veffrls of Holland, daiiy became the victims of their
brutalities. Finally, the atrocity of the Brttiflv
Ministers was carried to fueh a point, that they no
longer refpe&ed the flag of the States, but carried
a,convoy of Dutch vefTels into the ports of Eng.
land, declaring (hips richly laden to be lawful pri.
»es, and violating, as well in Europe as elfewlitre,
our independent territory. The only mode which
could be adopted, to put a llo|> to thele unprece
dented injustices, without however breaking with
the kingdom of Great-Britain, was employed by
their High Mightinefles. This mode confilled ia
joining with all possible fpecd the alliance of the
thr<e northern powers, concerted by the Empiefs
of Ruflia, and destined to protedl, by the force of
arms, the rights of the neutral nations, each of
them more or less violated by England.--— BB
Can wc want any further ti-«vidcncc of Dutch
Amity ?
PORTSMOUTH, (N. H.) July 30.
On Sunday evening, 6 o'clock, PETER FRI.
• DERICK COLLIN, Eiq. departed.this transi
tory life at Newingtoii ; aged 30, A long and
painful indifpolition, his fortitude and resignation,
' supported with philosophic firmnefs and manly
1 dignity. On Tuesday evening his retrains were res.
> pe&fully interred inSr. Johri'sGharchy-y<.rd, Portf
> mouth, according to his'own requell, confirmed by
1 a generous donation to the pool of the church.
1 This gentleman was# native of Hapau, Hefle
' Caflel, in Germany, aadjfor many yeais a resident
at Demarara. The insalubrity of this warm cli
j mate, induced a gradual decline ; from which he
flattered liimfelf with relief by repairing to 1 nor
thern situation. But, alas, he had tarried toolong
amid the fervors cf the Indian lfles, to regain his
heahh, by a happier temperature of air. He lias
resided in the vicinity of this town about three
months.
1= ■ _
The cxecutuia to the Uft will and tellament of
. the deceased, return their mod grateful aeknow.'edg
_ ments to the officers of the line who supported the
B pall ; the refpeftable gentlemen inhabitants, whoat
e tended the funeral ; and more especially to the fair
elt part of the creation who honored the worthy
dead, by a tribute of voluntary and uiuolicited ref
s P c &*
d —
What though iji fereign climes, remote from home,
The dying stranger gently links to reft ;
!* Yet man's vast brotherhood (hall build his tomb,
And the lorn pilgrim lodge on nature's breast.
o In death it holiest fellpwfliip llivine;
Life may divide ; but death cnites :he whole ;
e Drawi round the world, one wide encircling line,
1. And girti all mankind in from pole to pole 1
Hence, equal tenants of the filen grave,
~ And fellow citizens iw death's domains ;
Whatever country holds the eood, the brave,
'' Shall chaunt the requiem o er their lov'd remains.
v P
a Auction Sales,
g
<j To* Morrow Afternoon.
Sales of Rum, Sugar and Coffee.
At z o'clock,
In Second-ilre«t, above Arch-street, No. 68,
j Will be fold, by Auction^
In lots to suit the purchasers. lor Calh,
20 hhds. bell St. Croix Rum,
0 8 do. and jo bbls.prime Sugars,
ft 100 Bags of Coffer,
y All entitled to the drawback. Also, a large Scale and
Beam, and Tome Shop Furniture
d Win. Shannon, Auctioneer.
i- Aug. 11.
j —— — -
ts Cargo of the ship Union Fraterna,
from Leghorn.
O* Friday next, at 10 o'clock in the morning, °»
Meffrs.Rofs & Simfon's wharf, will befold byauc
tion, (and continued from day to day, 'till the whole n
fold) the cargo of the Venetian (hip' Union Frater>, Irom
Leghorn, conlifting of the following articles.
Florence Oil in cases 01 I* bottles, and flail" otf°
( e Cafiile Soap in^fes
i- Tallow Candles
n Anchovies * K
1]; Capers • jS
5 y Olives
1- Juniper Berries in bales
Manna, Flaktj
Ditto, in forts
; t> Almonds
'p Perrr.cfan Cheese
Id. French Claret, is caflis
1 t Ditto, in bottles
:ie Twine
•j- Hair-Powder 1 .
Pomatum. ,
The conditions of fa!e will be—all sums u<dcf i oc •
" to be paid in ca(h : from 500 to ioo< dollars in-PP rove
>y notes at 60 days: from 1000 dollars upward. in a P"
o- proved end or fed notes at 90 and no days.
1 ; Edv/artl Fcx, Auctioned
cr Aaguft o tW'uuiuiihj.l *J *mm w f teen
BY THIS DAY'S MAILS. C ™J
prob;
NEW YORK, August 10. of V
Yesterday morning, at about a quarter after nine, t y ?
-a fire broke out in Fair-street, in a bake house be- an j n
longing to a Mr. Woods, Th« tirmly exertions of cont<
our experienced and dextrous fire men, prevented f ma ]]
Its fpteading,. notwithstanding its being a frame c f £
building, ard surrounded by a number of small t b at
dwellings of a similar fabrication. The house in cor p<
which the fire broke out, with a store-room, were t ; er3
nearly eonfumed, with a quantity of dock on hand. f U pp
Mr. Woods has undoubtedly finlained a very great jjfp C
damage. _ » , . requ
The frequent fires which have lately happened in •£
bake-houses, we think, mud evince the expediency r y re
of a law, prohibiting them being built in future in f rom
the centre of the city, unless conftvu&ed entirely raßtt
of brick, and covered with tile. If t
Ship Penelope, capt. Bunker, from Dublin, was f or[J
boarded off Cape Clear, by an English frigate which t b e i,
treated him with great politeness—but on this g ain
coast was boarded by the Cleopatra frigate, capt. p eo j
Penroze, who prefled two of his hands; the lieu- f, on
tenant who boarded him behaved with great inso
lence, infilled on capt. Bunker's paying the men's me;l
wages, which was resolutely refufed wea
— tim<
Li/l of vejels at Havrc-de-Grace when the Belvtdere w j,;,
failed. is fc
Ship Mary, Powers, Boston, flour. tee
Louisa, Morgan, Yoik, Vir. do. ant j
America, Swain, New-Bedford, do. f o ] u
Polly and Nancy, Smith, Alexandria, V. fait ta^,
for Liverpool. a fc
New Jersey, Hefs, Philadelphia,' flour and f ror
(iiuff, for Liverpool. thei
Republican, Simpfon, Baltimore, flour and ; sa ]
rice, for London* itfie
Factor, Kemp, New-York, flour, for Rotter- vac j
dam and London. off
Argus, Finning, do. oiL arid flour for New- er
. York. _ an
Commerce, Banker, New-York flour, Liver- t h e
pool and New-York. ~
John Jennings, Boston, naval stores.
Tryall, Berry, do. fait. or^
Union, Pitcher, New Ijiedford, flour.
Charleftowu, Clark, Baltimore, flour and Cos- a . c
fee for London.
Thetis, Lee, New-York. °
Jane, Corvy, London, flour. ,
Britannia, Young, N. Yarmouth, do.
Eliza, Phipps, New-York, flour, butter and °1"
candles, for Rotterdam and New-Ydrk.
Apollo, Beales, Boston,. flour. tr .J
Elizabeth, Bray, Philadelphia, do.
i r Minerva, Rathburn, Ncw-Yo-k, do.
Brig Sail, Mitchell, Wilmington, flour, for Phi- 1
ladelphia.
Rosamond, Hart, Portfmouih, N. H. do. "
Tuno, Atkins, Boston, do. for Bred and Isle °
•t May. wa
Dean, Hughes, New-York, flour. '
Active, Dorman, Boston, do.
Argo, Franckfoit, Philadelphia, do. Bred.
Nelly, Shields, Baltimore, do. j
Ruby, Stafford, Boston do. ,
Hannah, Hodgkins, do. ballad.
Thomas Chalkk-y, Razor, Philadelphia, flour. ™
Mod of these vcflels were lying at Havre-de- °
Grace when the Belvidere failed, with their car- 7
goes on board, besides twenty fail with their car- P
i gocsof flour, chiefly, for different ports in France
I and Holland, to try the markets. C 1
Flour at 5 Crowns in Havre—and money scarce. le
The brig Sally, Arnold, of this port, arrived at "
Bartholemews, on the Bth July lad.
ARRIVED AT THIS PORT.
Ship Comnjeree, Graham, ' Briilol 84 cl
Stad, Altona, Copenhagen f«
Brig Mary, , Batavia 137 o
Schooner Elizabeth, Godwin, Norfolk, n
- » {1
[Wc lately gave a tranflatioh (fee Daily Advertif- r
ei of ?9th Jufy) of the letters which pafled be- r
tween Mr. Barthslemi, the French Ambassador,
aud the Magistrates of the Canton of Basil, f
. Switzerland, on the 9th and nth of May last.
The following is the letter which Mr. Barthele- t
mi had previously tranfmttted to the Executive J
Directory, and which occasioned the latter cor- ;
refpondence. The fame good fesfe and inde- |
pendent spirit pervades this communication. J
From the Courier bu Corps Legislatif.
7*ranjlatcd for the Daily Advertise*.
PARIS, May 1.
We have spoken of a letter from the Directory
to the Magistrates of Basil, relative to niiftruft which I
they entenaincd of a profpeft in favor of the prince
of Conde and the nnigrants : The following is the
answer which the magistrates addreifed to our am
baflador Bart nelemi, and which we have taken Jrom
the Courier of Strafburg.
Letter of the Magistrates of Basil, to Citizen Bar
theienrli, Ambassador of the Fiench Republic
to the Swiss C<-jjitons.
Your Excellency has addressed to us with your
letter of the sth of April, a writing from the Ex
ecutive Directory, which appears to be a rcfolution
copied from their records. We pass without any
observations cxn the form of it which is so unusual,
becgufe weought-tofuppofe that it has been through'
mistake that it has been sent to us in that manner ;
and because wa ought to believe that the govern
ment wili ever leave the concerns of llrangers to
their own deliberations exclusively. But if the
form of that writing has appeared ftrangc to us,
its ten<fehcy ought to appear much niore so, as
your excellency will be convinced by our answer.
The Executive Directory have told us that the
corps of emigrants were about attempting an in
valion through our territory. It does not become
us to doubt the proofs of it. which they may have
in their peffeflion ; but we ought however to ob
serve, that at the opening of every campaign, a.
teportjif n lik-r project has been circulated, with
out itsever having been attempted ; so that we art
• really lt a loss to know whether thofc reports have
been ?ere ftraiagems of war, or whether they have
been abandoned on account of other tflential cir- *
cumftances which wo*ldhave rendered the attempts 5
vain or futile* and which indeed we think the mod
probable, whether it has not been that the cabinet
of Vienna, which has ever refpetted our neutrali
ty, hath not opposed the disturbing tfae repwfe of
an independent people, who for these many ages,
content with their own limits, have ever taken the
smallest part in the difisntions of the great powers
of Europe. But abbve all, w« are well' aflured
that there is not afiually jjny kind of danger. The
corps of emiptants are too distant from our fron
tiers ; their forces are no: fufficient tur the plan
fuppofad, neither have w'e observed any of those
dispositions or pr»p*rations which such a plan would f,|
tequire. • _ tl
The twelfth article of the note of the Direfto- w
ry relative to the defence of our tenitoiy, demands
.from us, according to that report, a fufficient gua- y
rantec. No neutral people can give such a one.
If the belligerent powers, by their fortrefTes, their
formidable lines, their armies and the union of all
their forces, cannot secure their own provinces a
gamft an invading euemy, much less can a neutral
people do it-, and the aOTembling of its forces, far (
fiom ensuring its fafety, would neceflarily create f
tnidfuft. The expences, moreover, which such a| c
measure would occasion, are beyond our strength, r
weakened as we are daily by the misfortunes of the t
timeß. But there is another kind f>f guarawtee, ]
which, in our opinion, avails more than that which ;
is founded on our military strength. But guaian- j
tee is founded on the faith of the powers at war, ;
and in their intered. It is founded in that firm re- ,
solution which the Swiss Cantons have unanimously ,
taken of nevei - departing from those principles of
a scrupulous neutrality which they lit inherited
from their ancefters, and in the knowledge which
their neighbours have of this determination. It
is also founded in the difficulties which their country
itfelf opposes tn the pafTage of troops since the in
vading party would have its retreat inevitably cut
off by the arrival of the contingents of our confe
derates, ready to avenge, with the greatefl ardor,
an insult offered to that neutrality which they
themselves religiously observe.
We now come to the chaige which the Direct
ory have made againd the magistrates of Batii, and
againd some burghers of this and other Cantons—
a charge vag'ne and without example. The opi
nion and will of the foyereignty in a Republic, is
to be known by their resolutions folqmnly taken
and not f rem the private opinion of individuals. But
however widely individuals among us may differ in,
I opinion, they, Beverthelefs, all unite in one com
mon point, and that point is a love for their coun
try, and a conviction that the jlriftejl rftulrd/ity is
the foundation of our political exijlence. By inte
grity our good-will and our friendfhip are gaiiied.
Our hearts are changed by vague reproaches and
demonstrations of mistrust. What would it be if '
that midrud had for its foundation the mere tales
e of men, wl«o, of guilty views, inf#:red by venge
ance, hatred or ambition, would exaggerate what
was in itfelf inflgnificant ; would paint in the mod
glowing colours what was indifferent ; and wosld
conceal that which would explain the true fpitjt of
our views and of our political ftepsj
ThFDireflory, in fee, maTces us responsible for
the operations of war. We know that every govern
ment is answerable for the faults which through
forgetfulnefs of its duties and its oaths it knowing
ly commits. But calm and tranquil in dur princi
r pies, proud of that sentiment of freedom and 1111-
changeablenefs which i 3 the sole guide of our nego
ciations, we are ready to take upon ourselves that
responsibility : we are all but as one man, and we
can count not only upon the inhabitants ofourown
canton, but upon all the members! of the confede
ration.
Your excellency during the course of your diffi
cult million was impressed by us with very different
sentiments,- and the dire&oty have lately expretfeci
on that fubjefl their highed fatisfadlion. We dc
k. not at all doubt but_that, prefent«l by you, the an
{wer we fend you will, after a deliberation with th<
if- reprefsntatives of the Helvetic Body, be favorablj
>e- received.
>r, We pray God to take you in his holy and power
fil> ful keeping,
iIL Basil, 9th April, 1769. Signed by the Burgc
le- matters and Counsellor, of the City and Canton o
ive Basil. _
GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES
PHIL ADELPHIA-.
THURSDAY EVENING, AUGUST IJ.
?ry The (hip Joseph, Capt. Stone, arrived here 70 da;
ich from Liverpool. Spoke the following vefiels on h
nce paflagc. June 15, lit. 46, the brig Columbia, Lou i
1 from Milford for Boston, out 8 days, nd lat. 42, 5!
Ic a Danish ship (hip from Bourdeaux for New-York, o
im " 21 days with a number of paflengers. July 9> lat. 4
om 26, long. 48, the brig Adventure, Barr, from Ne
London, far London, out 12 days. 31ft lat. 67,3
Ship Ceres from New-London to Liverpool out 3 da)
Sat- Augnft 3, ship American Eagle, Pearfon, from B»fb
blic for Virginia.
our The following /fmcrican-vejfels are aducrt'tfed te J.
tr x _! in liillingt'i Liverpool, Advert fer of the, 30th May
ldn Ship Gen. Washington, Perry, for Philadelphia.
an 7 Wilmington, —-, do.
ua '» Hamburgh Paoket, Clay, do.
ugh' Huldah, Warner, do. to fail May 30. -
er ; Commerce, Pelano, New-York, Jane n.
;rn- Jav, Dyer, do. May 30.*
t0 Olive Branch, Provooft do.
the Warren, Landers, do. June 5.
Indeptndence, Stocking, do. firft vreek in Ju:
us ' Commerce, Smith, Baltimore.
» 38 Jane, Rogefs, do.
:r * Brig Eli/a, Benfon, do.
the Siiip Reliance, Webber, Cronftadt and St. Peterfbur]
1 in- Ma >' 2B
ome Hannah, Springer, Boston, May 30.
; Deiight, Wilson, do.
Alknomack, Tucker, do. ,
»' s A Bo ok-Keeper,
" I ' l ' /~\K Ckrk's pfacc wanted by a pc-rfon properly qn
■ arr y )Ud , m d whose ehnrafler will be found unexcepti
have j bio. Apply to the Printer,
have Aug. 11 1
By ■the Jbip Jefcph, Stone, from Liverpool we Mar!
oitwt receivedßillinjjc'a Liverpool Advertifrt - to (tance,
tht AO lb Mciy :—the fallowing articles arc copied before
thePHro*. I, ' m to
the irte
LIVERPOOL. May 30. "'Jj™
Ships arrived Jiace onr lap. noftilic
Hamburgh Packet, Clay, Philadelphia* °
Molly, j. French, Virginia. fti
Sailed
May 21. Columbia, j MafTachufetts. , ' ,
22. Friendship, Froftj Philadelphia. cfagt
The Sound Lift# give a catalogue of nolefsthan
fifty-fcvftn vefiVT* for this country laden with grain, on( j ( ,
the cargoes of forty-two of which are entirely
wheat. e j,
Yetlerday the fubferibers to the new loan Oi '»
7,5C0,0001. made good theii firtl payment oi 151.
percent, at the Bank. be C Vul
LONDON, May 28.
FRATRICIDE. whatfi
Lad night, as lord F. Townfhend, and his bro- , n
ther lord Charles, were returning in a post-chaise
from Yarmouth, whither they had keen on ele£t on- j
eering bulinefs,*a dispute took place which termi- t j mes
nated in the death of thelaster who was (hot thro' arr ; ve '
the head by his brother in the carriage! At Mile- reet
End the polt-boy heard the report of a pistol, but
imagined it was at fomediftance ; and drove on 'till j s j £)IW
he entered town, when he (lopped and atked lord w j )ert
Frederick where he would be driven to, who wildly t j )e c |
replied to the devil if yJu will." The boy con-
ceiving hislordfhip indifferent as to the place, did e( j a jj
not {top until he reached when, op- f
ening the chaise door, lord F. attempted to jump j. !iCC ,
out, but the boy then feeing the body of the de- t |, E
ceased weltering in blood, secured him.
yeop
WF.STMINSTER ELECTION. Mid I
Yesterday, about ele'ven o'clock, the tht re Can- 7
• didates, Chsrks James Fox, Esq. admiral fir Al- ; rcu
> lan Gardener,- and John Home Tooke, Etq. arriv- rflore
' ed on the Hustings. After the deputy of the
High-Bailiff had read the Precept and the feyeral
atts of Pailiament, Mr. Fox was nominated by Mr.
| T. Scott, and seconded hy Mr. Harry House.. He j ®
then addrefled the electors in a very (hort speech, in |
_ which he reminded them how often they had vhofen j
j him for their reprefemative ; and ventured to feel Ij.
[, pretty confident, if his pall conduct had met with 1 g
t their appiobation, as he trusted *it had, that they I
l( would hjjain commit their interells to his charge. j y.,..
!_ Sir Thomas Turton then nominated Admiral fir Al- J .
lan Gardner, in a very animated speech, in which he j
enumerated (he various and important services perform- | * ,acl
!S ed by the gallant Admiral, which could not fail to feuure j join
to him the admiration, protection and gratitude of e- I beti
I. very true Englishman. He dwelt on his brilliant exer- j
d tions on the glorious nth of April, and the no less glo- I 3n( j
if lious ift of June, now fre(h in every mm's memory, I
, s for which he had received the approbation of his So- I " ,
vereign, and the unanimous thanks of both Houses of j 1 c
Parliament. He had on many occasions, rifqi.ed his I mOl
life for his countrymen, every individual of whom he J Ch
1 had laid under obligations, by his services : those they I the
Id had now an opportunity to-repay. Sir Thomas spoke j ; n g
of V ith modelly of his coming forward on this occasion, I (
which he declared ht* did as an independent man, zea- I
* r loiifly Sffacied to the' coriTlitution of his country. — I
The motion wrs seconded by Admiral Ommaney.
n " Sir A. Gardner then addrefled the election with all I w a
?'• the pkin, snanly eloquence peculiar to British Seamen, j wi!
f ■ He said, that he came forward to •fier himfelf to their j dit
_i- notice, in consequence of the ftrongrft solicitations of j ,} ll
m- many most refprAable eleflors. He lpoke with modes- j j* U(
c . ty of his pretentions to their favour, they were merely I, .
founded on his having dtvoted forty years of his life I
to the service of his King and his Country* His hav- I '
" e iivg been thus employed, it could not be expelled that Jth
" pn he should be qualified to expreft himlelf with any elo- I ofl
ie- quence, This he m«ft therefore leave to others. He I L
declared h i vat nicnt the be ft of Kings, and fixed j
ffi. determination to exert himlelf on all occasions, in de- j m
ent fence of our glorious Constitution, against its enemies, 1
r 1 whether domestic or foreign. He was not much in the J
j habits of making profeffions. Should theelei!lor4 think I
"° him worthy of thehonorable fituationto which he pre- 1 N
an " fumed to aspire, it (hould bethepride of his lifeto (hew Jtc
ihe his gratitude, by discharging the duties of the impor
bly tant trust eommitted to his care, with honor & fidelity.
The Admiral's speech, delivered throughout with Urt- c(
k . er . common feeling, was received with loud, acclamations
of Gardner and Victory 1
Mr. Tooke was then propoftd by Mr. Felix Vaug- a
han, and seconded by Mr. Sharpe. He only laid, that o
°' he did npt think itjneceffary to trouble the electors,
as the Hbn. Baronet had made a Speech long enough f<
for the three Candidates. v
7C The returning officer Ithen declared the (hew of y
hands to be in favor of Mr. Fox and Mr. Alan Gard
ner ; on which Mr. Tooke demanded a Poll, which
commenced at 12 o'clock, and closed at seven. At
eight o'clock, the numbers were declared to be, for Mr. r
Fo;c, 232, Sir Alan Gardner, I*9, Mr.Toftke, 132. r
1 her DEATH OF LORD CHARLES TOWNSHEND. r
iweil POLICE OFFICE, MARLBOROUGH STREfjf. r
58, I We yefttrday (liortly hinted at one of tne mod ]
' out ' melancholy tranfa£ions it has ever fallen to our lot ,
, 43 ' 'to record. The following are some further parti- [
! culars of that unfortunate accident, which have |
jays' come regularly before the public: Lord Charles ;
»fton Townfhend, and his brother Lord Fiedertck ,
Townfhend, sons to the Marquis Townfhend, had
been at Great Yarmouth, for which place Lord |
'fail Charles had been just chosen Representative : they |
fay. arrived in town yesterday mprning'about fix o'clock, ]
and when they reached Oxford-flreet, near the Pan
theon, the poll-boys (lopped to enquire where the
Bifhopof Norwich, to whole house they had been
ordered to dr.ve, lived ; when Lord Frederick -
jumped out-of the chaise, and (truck one of the
boys, which gave rife to an altercation, that drew
together several persons who were passing by. He
infilled upoffit, that the boy knew wh.re the
J une- (hop lived ; and on the man's protesting that be did
not, his Lordship abused him with grear violence,
and with the molt deplorable marks of lnfanity, he
urgh, threw off hiscoat, waistcoat, and (hirt, challenged
28. hi!• to fight. Unable to provoke the man to a «on
itelt, he walked leisurely away towards Hanover
fquarc, when some person who had ueen attentive
to the whole scene, looked into the carriage, and
saw a lifelefs on the feat, which proved to be
the corpse of Lord Charles. L V d Frederick was
T"'" immediately pursued, and being taken near the end
:pt '° n " of 3wallow-(treet> wis conduced to a ne.ghboyr
tf ing watch-house.
As soon us tlae Magiftvatfi M 4-e QUice,
in Mirlboro'jgh-ltreerv wen apprized of thecitcoGi*
Itance, they ordered Lord Frtdrrickto be brought
before them, together with the podilions who drove
him to town. His Lordihip when interrogated oa
the melancholy fitbjeft, bettayed the raoft unetjuivo
cal fymptoras ot'-a mental derahgertiear, ar.d it be
came neceflary far the Magistrates to apply to the
poftiliolis sot the informal ion they wanted.
The sr(t person examined was Chi illopher Airy,
a postilion, who depofedthat he lived at the Angel
Inn, at flltord ; that he was called out of bed at >
four o'clock this morning {Friday) by the arrival
of a gentleman's chariot. He affiled to ptlt four
fiefh liOrfes to it, and with another drivel- set off to
London. The glasses Vere up. and he was order
ed to Hanover- Square, by a geirtleman in the car' i»
age, dreffee in black. ( Lord Frederick Townfliend);
he saw no other gentleman in the cattiage ; and
was pbfitive that there was no other on the feat,
because, it t/here had been, he must have seen him.
The gentleman i,n black paid the Stratford turn
pike. They then drove on, and he heard rio noifd
whatfoevcr until they came near the Globe at
town-end, when he heard the report of a pistol in
the carriage, and turning about, saw Lord Frede
risk wave iiie h»t, aftd heard him hollow several
times, and make a great deal of noise.-*—When they
arrived at the corner of Argyle-llreet, in Oxfoid
ftreet, he alighted to alk the gentleman where he
was to drive )tim to ? who said, to the Bishop of
Noiwich's ; but upon faying that he did not know
•where th« Bifliop lived, the gentleman eathe out of
the chariot, and struck him over the face, and swore
he would knock him down. Lord Fredrick walk*
ed about without attempting to make off, and (hip
ped off his ceat, waistcoat and (birt ; opened the
knees of his, breeches, and talked cf fighting. He*
the degonent, then went to the doof of the
and saw a dead man lying oil the culliion. The
yreople then came up, furrotinded Lord Frederick,
and tc.»k liim to the watch-house.
John March,.the other driver, corroborated every
' circumstance ("worn to by Airy ; he did not fee
itiore than one gentleman in the chariot. He far
\ ther added, that Lord Frederick, before they set
out, gave him two guineas, which he desired hitn
' J to give to any poor ptrfon, and said, '• perhaps yott
C I may fee some widow v(ho has adiftreffed family."
" j He also offered him more money ; but the oftlir
defued him to put his money in his pocket, h«
I said, " Aye, I believe 1 had better."
Sir Edmund Laton said, that Tie went down
y with Lords Charles and Frederick Towhfhend to
Yarmouth ; he never saw a stronger affection than
there always had been between the brothers, tior
v had they any difference while at Yarmouth. They
re joined in the fellivity at the Election too much., and
e- betrayed both of them, but particularly Lord
r " Charles, the mod 1. dubitable fymptorfia of insanity,
and chiefly after dinner and supper. They fre
y' quently went alone about Yarmouth, cryuig, that
°f their enemies were their belt friend*, dispensing their
,is money lavishly, and without diflinftion j and Lord
he Chavles went into one of the horlfes belonging to
ey the opposite Candidate,, and narrowly efeaped be
ing thrown out of the window by the opposite par
ty.' The day before the Elcftion, his friends ob
served him to be so much deranged, that they were
afraid he fouW not fland the Poll ; however, there
all was no opposition. After the eledtion he talked
en. wildly after dinner ; and, that night, the family was
eir disturbed by his continually opening and (hutting
the window shutters; the next morning he was in
lci ' such a (late, that his friertd locked the door upon
Jjk him. Sir Edmund said, that the friends of
av t Lord Charles and Lord Fiederick wished to get
hat them out of Yarmouth fli soon as poflßhle ; #ud he
slo- offered to accompany th?m in their chariot, but
He Lord Charles declined taking him as a companion,
xed faying, that his servant was too ill to drive, and he
? e " must take him in the Carriage with him. He. (Sir
" t "e Edfcinnd), however, followed them to towo in the
Mail Coach, with an intention of informing the
pre- Marquis of their fitimtiou, He could not speak as
hew to any other particulars.
per- James Vaughan afiifted in conveying the dead
hty. body into the house of Mr. Barnham, Chemist, the
. u * l " corner of Argyle-ftreet. It appeared to him, that
lons the pilloLwas put into the mouth of the deceased,
aug . and the bullet came out at the back pait «f the top
that of his ; the teeth were not hurt.
Vor», Laurent Parnell, who has been Lotd Frederick's
lugh s er vant fix years, said he went down to Yarmouth
with him, and that James May, Lord Charles' fer
* vant, also accompanied them. He corroborated
hich k cen refpefting the insane conduit of
At Lord Charles, at Yarmouth, and added, that hil
Mr. matter Lord Frederick, had been confined far infa
(2. nity about two years ago, when he had a ttrait-Vvaift
coat on, and was attended by a man from Dr. Mon*
ND. ro's. He also said, that from his conduit at Yar*
mouth, he fufpeded another fit was coming on.
m °ft He and the other servant returned from Yiymouth
ir lot w ; t {, their mailer, whom they accompanied oa
>arti- horseback as far as Woodbridge, but their being z
have f carc i,y of horses, they were obliged to stop there,
latlcs an( j f o llow their matters from thence, they had ar
erick r ; vc j i n London about two honrs after them.
, had had not heard a word on the road of a pistol
Lord having been fired, nor did he know or hear of there
they bfcing any dispute between Lord Frederick and hia
lock, brother. Whilst he accompanied them, he obferv.
Pan- t< i |-,J g matter to be more deranged than while he
e the was at Yarmouth ? particularly when they passed
been through Ipswich, where was an ele£lion mob ; he
lerick thought it was a oiob from Yarmouth following hi»
f the C a rr iac>e. At dinner yesterday they had not (he
drew finifhed one bottle of wine ; and coilld not,
He therefore, be intoxicated. As the gentleman came
e Bi- nearer London, Lord Frederick left his watch with!
le did a p 0 jt boy, as a tt>k:n to his servant to pay the
lence, drivers of onecoaeh, one guinea each.
ty,he FORTSsILE, '
The Cargo of the ship Potomack Chief, confiding of
mover 450 Hhds. Tobacco,
entive c hicfly from the tippet warelioufes on Si.uth Potomac, ani
r s and of a good quality.
to be This fliip Ss char ered to procsei to Falmouth anH one
.1 , a port in Europe without the Strfjghts and Baltick a 65C.
£ w ' ftcrling Freight and 5 per ceat. primage, and will be clear
ie end to kjj [,y t he 15th inft. from Alextndria.
KboUr- p or terms apply .0 EMANUEL WALKER.
Aug. JpLands of the United States.
Treasury Department, |
v Augyjl 8, 1796. &
Public Notice is hereby given,
IN pursuance of an ajSt of Congfefs pafied on the 18th cj
day of May. 1796, entitled M an a& providing "for
the sale of the Lands of the United States, in the territory
north-weft of the river Ohio, and above " the mouth of
Kentucky river," that the Quarter Townfoips of land
delcribed in the annexed schedule, lyihg 1" the seven rang
es ot tewnfhips whieh were surveyed in pilrfuance of an
ordinance of Congress, pal Ted oil the twentieth day of
May, in the year one thousand seven hundred and eighty
frve, will be exposed for sale at PUBLIC VENDUE, at
the Merchants'Coffee-Houfe in Philadelphia, on the 4th
day of January next, and thenceforward from day today.
until the tenth day of February ensuing unleft the fait.
' quarter townlhips {haII be sooner fold, in the manner and
on the terms and conditions hereinafter mentioned : viz.
ift. The said quarter townlhips (hall be fold to the
highest bidder, but no sale can be made for less thin two (
dollar? per acre of the quantity of land contained in such
quarter townfljip.
id. The highest bidder as before mentioned, must de
poGt a* the time of sale, one twentieth part of the pur
chase money, in the hands of the Treafurcr of the United
States, which will be forfeited if a moiety of the fuih bid,
including the said twentieth part, (hall notbt paid within
thirty days from the time of fa'e.
3d Upon payment of a moiety of the purchafe-me
ney in the manner beforrmentioned, the purchaler will
be entitledto one year's credit for the remaining moiety ;
and (llall receive a certificate defcribiiig the quarter town-
Ihip purchased, and dedaring the futn paid on account,
the balance remaining due, the time when such balance
becomes payable, and that the whole Land therein men
tioned will be forfeited, if the said balance is not then
paid ; but if the said balance shall be duly dtfeharged, by
paying the fame to the Treasurer of the United States,
the purchaler or his-afiignee or other legil reprefentativa,
(hall be entitled to a patent for the said land, On his pro
ducing to the Secretary of State a receipt for such balance,
etido/fedupon the certificate. But if any purchaser (hall
make payment of the whole of the purchase-money at the
'' time when the payment of the firft moiety is directed to
be made, he will be entitled to a deduction of ten per
centum on the part for which a credit is authorised to be
given ; and his patent (hall be immediately issued.
GIVEN under my hand Philadelphia, the day
and year akovementi»ned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury,
v /
SCHE D U L E
Of Quarter-Townftilps to be fold at Philadelphia. in pur
suance of the 6th fe&ion of an a& of Congress pafled on
the 18th day of May, 1796
j5 "oi
d. .9- t £
M £ '«S ra 0
% % % ■ - h
' O ° i_ -C
h H t js a
o t. <-> ■% u
do~ a c
* £ o) 9 |i
E
-2 6 South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
3 5 South East 5120
No-th East Jt2o
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
7 South East 51 20 \
> North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,48b
9 South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft j'i 20
20,480
11 South East 5120
North Eafi 5120
South Welt 5120
North Weft 5 1 2° I I I
20,480
4. 4 Ssuth East 5120 so
North East 5120
Seuth Weft c 120 r ?
North Weft $120 "
j 20,450
6 South East 5120 1
North East 5:120
' South Weft j 120 r
North Weft 5120
— 20,480 p<
8 South East 5120 C
North East 5120
South Weft j 120 P 1
North Weft. 5120 , "j
|' — 20,480 tl
10 South East. j 120 o!
North East 5120
Sonth Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
| 20,480 tl
12 South East 5120 " ai
North East 5120
South Weft 51 20
North Welt 5120 J
20,480 a
c ' 3 South East 4602 n
North East 4654 F
South Welt 5 120
North Weft 5120 p
19,496 t!
J South Enft 5120 a
North East 5 120
South Weft 5120
VorthWeft 5120
20,480
7, South East 5120'
North. East 5120 r
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120 c
20,480
9 South East 5120 f
Nortli East 51,2,0 '
South Weft 5120 1
North Weft 5120 J
——— 20,480
\
•diUjuMOjL i u ?ifj
ioj jo asquinu
•93.13 V
J
«
•sdiiyuMojL JSUeiT?)
i.
•
i
•dliyUMOJ^
•JSue-JI J* *O^J
5 11 'South EaftkY2o
iNorth E?ft 5 120
, .South Weft 5120
North Weft 5 120 -I
20,480 J
13 South EaU 5120 "
North Eafi 5 12®
South Weft Jl2O
North Weft Jl2O
<_ 20,480
6 4 South East 4630
North East 4620
South Weftjj 120 a
North Weft 5 12o
• 19,490 4
6 Soilth Eafi 4730 " 4
North East 4715.
South Weft j 12o ! '
North Weft 51 "20!
| »9V«5
8 South East j 120 f
North East j 120 t
South Weft 5 120 !'
Jtforth Weli 5120 , "
I 20,480 c
' 1 10 ;Sou*Ji East 5120 «
' North Eait ji2o f
South Weft 1 j 120 e
1 North Weft j 120
:, .20,480
' 12 South East 5120
, North East 51 20
Sotith Weft 5120
r North Weft 5 120
20,480
14 South Esfi 5120 <
Nbrth Eiift 5*1 20
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5 iics
i 20,480
*7 3 South East j 120
Notth East 5120 '
South Weft 5 1 20
North Weft J I 20
20,480
5 South East 5120
North Eall 5120
South Weft 5 120
North Weft 5120
20,480
7 South East 5120
North Eafi 5120
South Weft JI2O
North Weft 5 £2°;
— 20,480
9 South East 5:20
North Ealt y1 20
~ I ■;* ' - f " \t to jpS — J _
North Weft 5120
20,480
11 East j 120
Norvh Ealt 5120
South Weft 51 20
North Wfcft 5 120
20,486
13 South East 5120
North East 5 1 20
South Weft 5 1 20
North Weft 5120
» . 20,480
South East y 120
North Eall 512®
South Weft 5 120
North Weft 5 120]
t 20,480
NOTE.
THE quantities of Lands in the several townlhips be
fore 'Kent iwnetl, arc ejvclu£ve of the Sect ons reserved by
the Uii.ted Statfis. The aggregate quantities in the seve
ral townfliips, have been afcertainad by adtual survey; bj)t
the quantities in the quarter tewnfhips, have been no
otherwise ascertained than by calculation.
- ' ' 1 1 ii
War-Office of the United States,
May 4th, 1796'.
THE follbwing'Rules, explanatory of tho.; publiftied
the Ijth February f 1785, are to beobferved by all
persons entitled to Lands, in pursuance of resolves of
Congress.
Every certitlcate of the acknowledgment ef a deed or
power of attorney, either before a notary public tir other
magistrate, must, in addition to what is usual, set forth
that the pilrfen makings the acknowledgment is known to
the nqlary or other magistrate ; for wnich purpose words
of the following import must be inserted in the certificate.
" And I do moreover certify that the said A B making
this acknowledgment has been for perfonaliy
known to me."
If the notary or other magistrate has reason to believe
that he is th. person he represents himfelf to be, he wil
also certify it.
Andifthe proof be made by a witnefsorwitnefies,h«* or
tfieymuft fweartofome general ffateof theirknowledge of
him, which matter must be set forth in the certificite ; and
the notary public, or other magistrate before whom t j
acknowledgment is made, must also set forth that the wit
nelsor witneffeshas or have been for upwards of
perionally known to him.
If a jAllicc of the peace is employed, the clerk of the
court of the corporation or county must certify that such
perfuu u »jnftice of the peace, of the county or corpora
tion ai tl\e cafe may be, and that full faith is due to hi;
ads as such. ' /AMES .M'HENRY,
Secretary ef War.
larjjyn
Mr, FRANCIS,
(Of the New Tktaln)
'T'AJCES this opportunity of returning thanks to his
A Scholars and to the public. Mr. Francis intends,
on his return from Maryland, to open a public aca
demy for darling, upon a plan entirely new. He
flatters himfelf that his attention to his pupils hi
therto renders any premises of conducing his future
Schemes o« the molt liberal and Itri&eft terms, of pro
priety, totally unneceflary.
N, B. Private tuition as usual.
J une 3 „ w
To BE Soi.d,
At No. IIS, North Second-Street, fid by federal oj
the Apothecaries, in 1/jJs City.
TRANSFERS of the right.to rfHin« paihsand inflamma
tions'from the human b»dy, asfecured to D'. LLISHA
PERKINS" byt patent, with ifllViUfbefirs aifd directions ne
ceffaiy for the piafctice. Tbis mode of treatment is particu
larly ufeful in relieving pains in the head face, leetli, Dreait,
fide, stomach, back, rheumatisms, recent gouts, & c ; «c.
Notwiihlbndilig the utility of ihis pr»ftlce r it is not pte
fumed but there are cases in which this and every otner _
remedy may iometimes fail.
, ' r. law
June 10,
Lottery ]
FOR railing fix thousand fix hunAed and sixty-seven p a
dolhrs and fifty cents, by p deduction of fifteen per
cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a prize, viz.
I Prize df 5000 dollars is dollars 5000 ai s
I loop ' 1000 f u
1 job joo pl
■5 200 loco pa
20 , xoo a°°c «
99 50 495° "
ZOO 25 JOCO ,1
2000 10 10,000 tc
5 Last drawn numbers of 10OC dollars each, 5000 i<
. . . ■ U
2331 Prize's. 44/43© «
40:8 Blanks. «
it
6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44,45° "
By order of the Directors of the-Society for eftabiilh- «
ing Ufeful Manufactures, the ftfperintenSints of the Pat- «i
erfon Lottery have requested the Managers to offer the u
foregoing S«heme to the public, andhave directed them u
to refund the money to those persons who have pur chafed «
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
in this Lottery. /„
* I"he lottery has aihially commenced drawing, and will m
continue until finiflied. A lift of the Blanks- and Prizes j c
may.be seen at the office of William Blackburn, No. 64 p (
south Second flreet, who will give information where tick- ct
ets may be procured. ; s
Dated this 17th diy of June, g,
J. N GUMMING, ~)
JACOB R. HzIRDENBEKG, > Managers. /
JONATHAN RHEA, )
June 18 eo
to
or
City * cf Waftiingjton,. £
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11, »
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT Of THE 1
FEDERAL CITY. *
A magnificent } 20,000 dollars, & ) r 0 000 ld
dwcHifig-houfe, J cash 30,000, are J> a
I ditto 15,000 & cacti 15,009. - 40,000 ty
1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 3p,0e0
x ditto 10,000 & cash 10,000 io,oeo
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
x ditto SjOOQ & cash 5,000 10,606
1 cash prize of 10,000
» do. s>ooo each, are, • 10,000
10 do. x,opo - - lojooo- ''
10 do. 500 - - lo»ooo
00 do. 100 - - IB,QOO
100 do. 50 - - 10,000
400 do. 45 - 10,000
1,000 do. 10 - 20,060
15,000 do. 10 - • jj«,ooO
16,739 Prizes.
33,261 Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. To favour those who may taJrc a quantity of j
Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the last drawn
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one-:
And approved notes, fecurliijr payment in either money c
er prizes, in ten days after drawing, will be received for
any number not less than 30 tickets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant fjiecimen of thie pri- 1
vatb buildings to be ereited ill the City of Washington— n
Two beautiful designs are already fele&ed for the entire a
fronts on two of the public squares; from these prawihgs
it isjiropofed to erect two centre and four corner buildings, 0
as soon as polfible after this lottery is fold, and to convey v
| them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery. '
A nett deduction of five per cent, will be made to defray a
the necessary expenses of &c, and the surplus
will be made a part of the fund intended fotr the National I
Ufiiverfity, to be erected within the city of Washington.
The Drawing will commence as' soon as the tickets are a
fold off.—The inoffty prizes will be payable in thirty days '
after it is finifhsd ; and-any pr ze« for which fortunate r
e _ numbers aie not produced within twelve mqnths after the. a
} y drawing is closed, are to be considered as given towards
e_ the funi for the Univcrfity ;it being determined to fettle f
tb? whole business in a year from the ending of the draw- 1
10 in g> an< J t0 take up the bonds given as security.
The. real fecuritjes given for the payment of the Prizes, e
_ are held by the President and two Directors of the Bank '
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
mount ol thy. lottery. f
The twenty tour gentlemen who by appointment of '
:d the late Comruiflipners assisted in the managemetre of the
11 Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake this arduous task
of a second time on behalf of the public ; a fufficient num
ber of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the J
Dr friends to a National Univcrfity and the other federal ob- 3
er jeits may continue to favor the design.
:h By accounts received from the different parts of the
to Continent as, well as from Europe, where the tickets
Js ; have been sept for sale, the public are allured that th®
e. drawing will fpeedily.compien»e,.and that the care and
ig caution unavoidably necefTary to insure a fafe difpolal of
iy the tickets, has rendered the inor: fufpeufion indispensable. 1
SAMUEL BLODGET. e
fe •§* Tjekets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ;of F
il James vv eft ,& Co. Baltimore .; of P'eter Gilman, Boston ; . v
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells, '
J r Cooper's Ferry. eo
of 1
FOR SALE, I
t- A very Valuable Estate,
CALLED TWITTENHA M, situate in the I
ic townihip of Upper Derby, andcounty of Delaware, t
j. 7 1-2 miles from Philadelphia, and half a mile from the c
" a _ new road: containing 230 acres of excellent land, £
45 °f which are good watered mnadow, 90 of prime wood- '
land, a»d the reft arable of th« firft quality. There are '
on the premises a good two llory btickhoufe, v/ith 4 rooms 1
on a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a pump-well
of excellent water in front; a large frame bain, stables, :
and other convenient buildings ; a smoke-house and ltone,
spring-house ; twe good apple orchards, and one of peach
es. The fields are all in clover, except those immediately
under tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advantage ,
lis of water in aacli of them, whicU renders it peculiarly con- 1
Is, venient for grazing.
:a- The situation is pleafantajd healthy, and.from the high
:le cultivation of the land, the good neighbourhood, and the
h,i- vicinity to the city, it is very suitable far a gentleman's
ire country feat.
■o- Tlle foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Hartnan,
dcceafed, and offered for sale by
Mo*decai Lewis,
Oft. 9, eo.] Surviving Exesutor.
For sale by th.e fubfcriberi,
IN P t NM-STRTETj '
130 quarter Chofts i'reth Tl-ylVm Tea ;
100 ditto do. frclli Sgucb'Jiig'Tei>;
300 IJoxes Chica, containing fituJl tea lctts of 4-
pieces;
400 pieces Bandanoes.
Willingj & Francis.
January 30
Treasury of the United States;
NOTICE is hereby given to all perfcjns who are' or
may be Creditors of the United States, forany funis'
of the Funded Heit, or (ttck f baring.a prefer mUnft of j, x
per centum per annum.
I ft, That pursuant to an Ail of Congress pajfed on the
28 th day of April, 1796, in titled an a£t in addition ttl an
a«sl, intituled " An ad making further pr»vi(ian tor tW
support of public credit, 1 and for the-redemption of the
public debt," the faiddebt or Sock will be reimhurfcj andi
paid in manner following, to wit. " First; by dividends,
" to be made-en the lait days of March, JuncandiSeptcm
" ber for the present year, and from the year one tboufsnii
" seven hundred and nincty-feven, to t'ho year one thou
" sand eight?hundred & eighteen in lufive,at'thi rate u fi
H one and one half per centum upon the original capital.
« Secondly, by dividends to be made o» the last day 0 f
" December for the present year, asd from the year one
" thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year
"• one thousand eight hundred and seventeen inqjufive, at
" the rate of three and one half per centum upon tlteori*
« ginal capital; and by a dividend to be nia e on the last
« day of 1 December, in the year ono. thousand eight htm^
" dred and eighteen, of such sum, as will be then ade
" quate, according to the contrail, for the final rcaer.ip,
" tion of th said stock." 1
sd. All distinction' between payments on acconnt-qf
Intereff and Principal being thus afcoliihac! by the' elhbiilh
mefit of the permanent rule of reiraburfement abovs de
-1 scribed, it has become neceflary to vary accordingly th»
powers of attorney for- receiving, dividends; th public
creditors will therefore observe mat tlie following Jorta
is established for all powers of attorney which may bo
granted alter the due. promulgation ofthis notice, viz.
KNOW ALL MEN Br THESE RRB&BNftt, that
■ I of in
do make, covjlitiite and appoint
of my true and lawful At-
my name, to receive sßi'aft/:atid<u ■w£!t6!ure t
or flail he payable according to law, on tbt (here defcribingthe
ftook)_/faW«jj in mynamiin the.beofavf: (here defcribjßg the
books of the Treasury or the Commissioner-os Loans,
, where the flock, is credited) from (here insert the com
mencement and expiration of time for which the power of
attorney is to continue) with pother atfo an attofr.ey or attor
nies under him, for that purpofctit jrwkt and do aU
lawful Ms rtyuijitefor-ej/eeiutg. hereby rxlifyhg and
confirming all thi. faHI Attorney or
ly do, by virtue arrfof.
In IVitnefi hereof.', I Lave hereunto set my Hand and Seal the
day of in tire year
Sealed and Delivered ■
iapttfevee of,
BE IT KNOJVN,thafm tbt day/if
before meperfonally come
within named arid acknowledged the above letter of attorney to ie
bis aS and died.
In tejl'tmony whereof I havrbetvunio set my Hand-arid ajjix*
ed\ Seal the day undiear lafl aforefaid.
Given under my Hand at Philadelphia, this twen
tieth day of July. 1796, pursuant ta dire£ti»ns
from the Secretary of the Treasury.
SAMTJEIi MEREDITH,
'/ reafurcr of ibe United'Sfrrtfi.
July 43« zvt:l J,
Samuel Richardet,
j j) ESPECTFTJLL.Y informs iHe Utntlemhi
AX. Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEE HOUSE in the
„ city of Philadelphia*
r The Subscription Room will be furnished with'aft the
daily papers pnbliihed in Philadelphia, New-York, Bea
ton, Baltimore, together with.those of the princfp?l com
mercial cities of Europe—Tfcey will be reguiacly filed
c and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
s Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Ifce Creams, and a variety
. of French Liquors; together with the ufeal refrefhments,
' will at aU times be procured at the bar.
n Gentlemen may depend 011 being accommodated with
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous liquors, and the most
y approved lyialt LiquorsfromLondon and otliej* breweries. ,
s The Larder will be supplied with the prime and eariieft
j produ<stions of the Seafonk
Large and small Parties, or single Gentlemen, may be
e accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Supper#, at
s hours most convenient to themlftlves—a cold Collahon
e regularly kept fgr conveniency, the Billof Farfeto be had
at the bar.
s The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnilhed, and
e the utmost attention paid to and every oti a" |
.. requilite.
Richalidbt will be happy to receive, and
5 execute the commands of his ,Frionds, and the Public at
Jarge; afcd with gratitude for their favours, he
a himfelf that nothing on his part fhali be wanting to pre
serve that patronage with which he hasbeen so diftingjuih
ingly /lonored.
c Philadelphia, April
t
1- Nov Puhlifh'ng ly the Printer,
e At No. 3, Lsetitia Court, delivering to Subscribers,
and to be had at the different Book-Stores in this City,
Berriman & Go's
g CHEAP AND ELEGANT EDITION OF
5 The HOLY BIBLE.
t f Containing the Old and Naw
. Tcftaments and the Apocrypha, with marginal notes a«dn
erences. An Index ;or an account of the most remarkable
,f passages in the old and new Testament, pointing to the
wherein they happened, and to the places of scripture w ere-.
'in they are recorded. —A 1 able of Time. laWeso crip
5 ' ture meal ures, weights and coins : with an appendix, contain
ing the method of calculating its measures cf suRFACM
hitherto wanting in Treatises on this A Table o Jr
and Conditions of men.
CONDITIONS
1. The size of this Edition will be a LARGE FO»- IO >
e printed on a beautiful new type, and good paper, maoe par
• ticularly tor it, It will be publilhed in Numbers, notto ei.
,e ceed 90, one of which will be delivered wtekly to fu.>(cnC>-
1 ers, at a quarter ol a dollar. 1 hose fubicribers who Pf 6 . c
i.' receiving the work complete, willbe atunded to bv
the fame on any ot the subscription papers in rhe BOOKUO
in this citv. ,
~ s. There willbe an advance in the price, on fubft"°' n S
after the iiift of Ausuft next,
s > 3 J n the course of the Work willbe. given aoel«„
e ' Frontifpiecc— From an Engraving of the eelebratW "■ •
G&ICNION„ . tlkrtil
'y Berriman & Co. gratefuUyacknowledgethe "«y
,e encouragement they havemet with; and bavcreatoiito
that the execution of their edition will >
taiion, and fpeakits own pmifc.
;h May 16
n, PRINTED BY JOHN
—No. x 19—
C H E S N U T-ST-RS E I.
fPrico Eight VoVitt per A-.v.ar»l