-v "y f
: "• r - •>. ! - . . - i I .
.ft* tinttfO f>tates, & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
. n THURSDAT EVENING, NOVEMBER 17, 1796. [Volume X.
Number 1300.J •' •' . r''i ■ ■ ' •'' : —
: — 1,1 ~ ——————— «V..< 2 T 1:
For Sale,
At Puklic Anftion, on Saturday, November 19th inft- >'
at the Merchant* Coffee Houft, 6 o'tlock in the even
ing—
7he bri£ FLY,
Virginia built, of the be ft materials,
„ v -i (heatked on the stock* tc lijrbt wa
ter mailt. ft r.ott wo -jr hundred
barrels, or there aboutsli well found in every refpeft, and
fails remarkable fad—is ready to receive a ccrgo immedi
ately. Inventory to be seen at Footman &Co AuAion
room, on board at South Street wharf, or at N0,,5, South
l ourth Street, by applying to the fubfciiber,
George Blight.
Terms of payment —approved indorsed nptei at a, 4,
and 6 months.
Nov. 14. § lw "
For Freight or Charter
To Europe or the IV*lndies,
The new Brig FAIR AMERICAN,
Richard Calley, Maftef ; burthen 145 tons j ***
good accommodations, and is now ready to receive a
cargo:—apply to the Captain oa board, firli wharf
above the Still-House, S®uthwark, or to
Isaac Harvey > jun.
Who has now for sale, at his flore, No. 5, South
Water-street,
A quantity of Cayenne and Trinidad Cotton
Spanish S.;al Leather
And a parcel of Carolina Rice, in whole and half
tierces. nth mo. nth. daw
_ For Madeira,
jtfjßf The jhip Concord,
C:pt. Joftv. r isaalbn. Vor f:. gir
Peter Blight;
Who has for sale, a quantity of
Brandy, in pipes
XVhiting and Copperas, in hogsheads
Old Hock, in cases
Dutch Cream-Cheese, in boxes
Window Glaft
Empty Gin-Cases
Ola's Ware, in boxes
Pr inters' Colours, ground in oil -
Tweet Oil, in cases of a dozen battles each
Hazlenuts, in iacks.
'November n. d im
j.*- Wanted to Charter,
\ A f a Mv lin s Ve J (l >
£ '- That will carry 5 or 600 barrels ; to
4 load immediately for the Weft-Indies.
Apply to
Peter Blight#
November 10. dx
For sale, Freight or charter,
SnrqEM'SWltii, Matter.
AN entire new vessel, ninety-three tons burthen, com
pletely found, and may be sent to fe? without yiy
expenle. For terms, apply en board, at Clifford's wharf, j
or to JOSEPH ANTHONY & CO. ']
NOV, 9 6§ 1
For Sale. r
■sgEifp 3 ' The Ship CHAR L 0 T TE, \
A stout vcfTel, about 150 tons bur- i
:"9 then, well found and may be sent to t
Tll sea at a small expence. a
Apply to
Joseph Anthony and Co.
Nov. 8. • dx.
FOR SALE,
1 HE SniP MART, >
SAMUEL PARKER, Master, !
hundred tons burthen. Apply to 3
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co. 1
If the MARY is not fold in a few days, she will take 2
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
OiSlober 3 1. ' j
Just arrived, and will this day be lan
ded from on board the brig FAVORITE at Chrfnut
street wharf.
25 Tons bejl Rujjia Clean HEMP,
56 Tons old Sable flat IRON,
too Coils btft RufTia CORDAGE, afTorted sizes,
400 Pieces brown RufTia SHEETINGS,
100 Bolts Russia DUCK,
240 Pieces Ravens do.
20 Half-down feather beds, and
A few pieces assorted DIAPER.
FOR SALE Bt
Joseph Anthony and Co.
rXjkV, Thc abovc fDcnt '° ne< J brig
willf.il in a few days, and tak» freight on
moderate terms for Boston or Salem, for
or pafTage, apply on board or as above
October |l.
For London,
:e Pen*)
Jofifh. matter. Will fail with a"
f pec(^# For or pai f a(r e
apply to the Captain on board, or to
Jefie and Robert Wain.
November 10, 1796. j
r —— —. T
For Liverpool,
—-• The Ship DOMINICK TERRT,
JAC ° B DkhArt » Matter. I
ffp • _ S(\ H?s a part of her cargo engaged.—
For freight or passage apply to the mas- yj
'■ ter on board, at the whar. of the fub
fcritiers, or,
Jeffe Robert Wain.
- Nov. 7. d
For Lisbon,
TheDanifh barque Benf.ventura,
Samuel Stub, Master, _
V® X A S oo.l vefltl of about two hundred
*S'-. n tons burthen. For freight or palTage
itjiply to
JrJfe of Robert Wain. "
Nor. ' d
/
BARTER.
it F°' Sale, a good strong built fiiip, bur
-- then 1 jjobarrels, nearly new, well found
can be put to sea at a small expence.
will be received in Esglifh or
India goods, or if more agreeable trf the purchaser, 3,
•' 6, and 9 months credit would be given on
1- notes, for further partlcwljrs tnqvirr at No. 8, South
3 Water-street, or No. 19 North Third-street.
d November 16. v
n To fail the ijth inHant,
The new ship Philadelphia,
l"heodore Sl'ifs, matter, now on her second voyage;
has elegant accommodations jer palTengers fail" r«-
markably fact.—For freight or pafTage apply to the
_ matter, or to
% Thomas and John Clifford.
Nov. xi. _ B
r> FOR LONDON, "
nj Th« eapital ftlip CERES,
•f f oan : —F°r freight or pafTage
apply to DAW, ROBERTS & Co. or
John Vaughan y
h September 10. Front-street ■
For Charter,
f3ri The ship JOHN BUL KEL T,
- Ayres Stocklky, Mailer.
exce " cnt 'ive-oak and cedar built
°f about barrels burthen. —Ap-
Jeffe y Robert Wain.
Nov. ■ a. >
t —r* l ■■*: " 1 y '—
" and Killibegs,
The American Ship Njnct, ,
Cuthbert Riggs, master.
St Will fail with all convenient speed. For
freight or pafTage apply to
William Bell j
Who has for sale,
4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well aflorted
3 Bales liifh Flannels, and 2 boxes Linens
2? Pipes Brandy
Madeira Wine; Indigo. Russia Matts,
Also,
A few barrels Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
OATMEAL, &c.
November ix, 1796, mwftf '
For BRISTOL,
• PHILADELPHIA,
Theodore Bliss, matter.
A new Ihip, on her second voyage, with the best
accommodations for palTengers, and is intended to fail
with all expedition. For freight or passage apply to r
the Master on board, or to
Thomas iff jfohn Clifford:
Who fca-e just impprtarsi fud and--latefor
sale, betides their general attbrtment
of IRONMONGERY,
' A quantity of fine drawn and common sharp and J
> flat point NAILS ; double & finale r»H'd Sheet Iron j
Iron Pots, Kettles, an 4 Iron Weights, Of all sizes ;
. London and Bristol Pewter in eafks, afTorted ; boxes i
of Tin Plates; cases of Men's, Women's and Boys'
Hats ; crates of earthen and flint Glafe Ware ; crates
of Phials ; boxes of Window-Gluts ; boxes of long "
and short Pipes; Copper in Sheets ; Oval Quart Bot
tles in hampers; alio, a few casks of bottled Beer,
and two bales of Superfine Broadcloths and CafE
mfr"- Oflober 27. m&thaw
For Sale, or Charter,
iOfeL- Ship DIANA,
Samuel Pile, Master,
® url ' u ' n *°S 47*95 tons register, built in ,
Philadelphia in the year 1792, of live oak r
and red cedar, and was (heathed 13 months ago, she
has just had a compleat out-fit, and may be sent to sea
at a very trifling expence.
For terms apply to
Philip Nicklin Iff Co.
irho have far sale on beard said vejfel,
27 cases of fine yellow paint.
9 boxes and 12 bundles of writing ilatcs. o
1 box ink stands and note prefles. . n
14 bales of fail canvass. *
And on hand, s
Imperial
Hyson, and, >■ TEAS. I
Sotrchong 3
40,000 pieces Nankeens of the firfl quality.
19 tubs Quicksilver.
2 chests Bandanno handkerchiefs.
A few chests Manchester goods well aflorted in Cor- r
duroys, thicksets, Ginghams, Muflinets, Dimities, &c. r
3 boxes black sewing silk.
180 crates Queens ware wellafTortad. *
1® tons sheet lead. ij
Nails assorted, flat and sharp points. 2
London Particular, .... . .
London Market, £ Madeira Wine m pipes V
New-York Market, 3 hogsheads.
40 pipes and lohogfheads Teneriffe wine. 1
8 tierces Snake Root. ' - >
230 logs Mahogany. ■A
Nov ' 7- tth&ftf.
Sales of India Goods.
The Cargo of the ship Ganges, capt. Tiligey, from Cal
cutta and Bengal, I
CONSISTING OF
A Large and generalaffortment of Benfral and Madras
COTTON and SILK GOODS. —
AMONG WHICH ARE
A variety fine worked and plain Mu/lins,
Doreas, EjV. Also, r -
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
In boxes and bag 9 BLACK PEPPER o*
For Sale by
Willings Francis, f<
. . No. ai Penn Street.
June 3 . . .
§ 112
City Dancing Assembly.
The firft Aflembly will be held on Thunday next the CX
17th November, at Oellers's Hotel. at
By order of the Managers. lie
Nov. 14. £
FOR SALE,
A few hogsheads of choice New-En ;land RUM, I
A number of barrels of BEEF, and PORK, .
Aid a few kegs of LARD, of a foperior quality.
Enquire at No. 71, north Water-street.
November 8, 1796. dtf
For Sale.
' 7 cases coarse hats
Copper bottoms and flicets
Shot, all sizes, patent and common
Sheet and barr lead
English {hoes and boots in cases
Tin plates
Gold watches
Taunton rje in calks.
Apply to
Simon Walker„
I*4, So. Fourth Street.
Nov. 8. di4t.
~ 01 D
London Particular Madeira Wine,
In pipes, hogftieads and quarter-casks,
Landing this day at Chefnut-ftreet Wharf, and
for sal« by
Jofepb Antheny Sc Co.
Nov. I. d
Best Boston & Nova-Scotia Mackarcl,
Excellent Halifax Salmon in bbll.
47 bbls. prime Coffee,
Best Boston Beef,
Codfifl) in hds.
Sperrr.aceti Candle*,
■ Spermaceti, and \ r\ -
■ Northern j -
Mould and dipt, tallow candles, of a superior
quality.
A few boxes excellent brown soap,
6 Bales of Corks.
40 Pipes excellent Lilbon Wine.
A few sacks of Feathers. '
A few bales India Muslins.
FOR SALE BT
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
Oflaber 31. d
The Cargo of the Polacre Independent,
CAPTAIN CATHCART, from Alicant and Lis
bon, landing at the fubferibers wharf—
a 8 Pipes of Brandy
18 Bales of Spanish wool
3 do. of Annifeed
7000 Bufliels of best Lilbon Salt
1 80 Boxes of Lemons
Fer fJe by WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
ALSO,
Seventy Hogsheads of prime JAMAICA SUGARS,
raceived by the fbip Dominick Terry, Capt. De Hart,
ft-om Ivingflon.
_Sept. 11. J
Irish Linens,
Imported per the Jhips Gh/go iv, from Dublin, Liber
ty, from Cork, and brig Mentor, from Befaft,
4-4 and 7-8 Wide IRISH LINENS,
In whole and half boxes,
Assorted ifrom lid. to 4s. flerling—Alfo 5- >wide
Sheetings, and low priced yarn and wcrttcd Hose.
On Hand,
7-g Wide Lawns.
Dupers and Table-Cloths
A few boxes Tickeas and Cheeks
A few bales Flannels
Cork and Belfafl Sail doth, Nos. I and 6
15 Boxk r 6 by 8,
10 Ditto S. Window OJafs, 7 by o,
J Ditto 5 £ 8 by 10.
The above mentioned Goods are all entitled to the
drawback, and will be disposed of by the packacre on
reafqnable terms. I
James, Clibborn & English,
No. 6, N. Front-street.
loth mo. 19th. dtf 1
A Manufadtory FOR SALE.
A Valuable SOAP and CaNDLE Manufa&ory, Situate
in a convenient part of the city ; the works almost new,
on an entirely original conftruftion, and built of the best
materials, and may be set to work immediately. Persons
whowifhto purchase, are requeftcd to apply at No 275,
South Second Street. September 13. ttf tf •
Imptrted in the late errh'-ils from Europe and the '
Wejl- dies,
Holland Gin, iv pipes
Choice St. Croix Sugar and Rum
Martinique Molaflis, ir, hogsheads
Choice old Lisbon Wine, in pipes and quarter-calks J
London Particular & London Market Madeira Wine,
in pipes, half-pipes and quarter-calks a
Malmsey Madeira Wine, in pipes and quarter-calks f
Teneriffe Wine, in pipes
Ruflia & Flemish Sheeting and Ravens Duek, in cases
Window Glafsj 3 by xo, in boxes
Coffee Mills and Straw Knives, in calks
Mill Saws and Crofc-cut Saws, in.boxes j
Alfa, oh hand, ]\
A few chefls of Bohea Tea j Jesuits Bark ; Aflafce- n
tida and Tapioca ; and a few bales of Coflaes,
JJattas, Jjurrahs, Bandanna and Muslin Handker
chiefs, aid a complete aflortment of 5-4 and 6-4
Bouhing Cloths.
For Sale by
Pragers Ess Co.
° a ° ber 20 dawm&tham
The Elephant
IS RETURNED FROM BALTIMORE.
THE public are refpe&fully informed, that
> 'his animal is to be leen every day, from 8 7
j'clock in the morning till fun down, in Market
treet, No. 106, south fide, between Third and'
Fourth-jlieets.
, Admittance a quarter of a dollar, that every ci- tc
lzcn may fee him. th
CCj~ At the request of many perfena it will be —
xh'bited on evenings from five to eight o'cldck,
t half a dollar each—The toom will be well
ighted.
November 7. ,
at
/
Jujt Landing,
And for Sale, a qi!2ntitv of
BOURDEAUX tfTtANDY,
T7ROM on board the schooner Lydia & Polly, Oliver
' A Jenkins mafler, lyinfr at W'ilcock's wharf. For
terms, enquire on board said schooner.
November i??h
«—»««• 1 1 4
Just Landing
At Southfireet wharf, from, ok loard the /hip Sei!s
- Captain Hodge, from St. Peterjcurg,
The following Goods:
Raffia Sail Duck, firft quality.
Do. Sheeting do.
Do. Diaper.
Do. Huckaback.
Do. Crash.
Do. Mould Candles, 4, 5 and 6, to the lb. of the
English size.
Do. White Candle Tallow.
Do- White Socj> in /mall bores.
Do. Cordage of fine yarn.
Ravens Duck.
lfinglafs, id and (and fort.
' Horse Hair uncurled.
Ruflia Bar Iron.
id Do. Hoop Iron.
Do. Nail Rods.
10 Tons Oakum and Junk.
St. Petersburg Clean Herap:
__ For Sale by
Philips, Cramond, & Go.
Fashionable Waistcoating.
GEORGE DOBSON, No. 25,
SOUTH THUbLD-STREFT.v
Hat received per the Diana, from London,
)r Clouded and striped Spmifh Swanfdown
Clouded Erminats and Moleskins
Striped do. and do.
Figured Manillas
Scarlet figured Erminets
Printed Florinetts
Do. Caflinets and Cafiimeres
Superfine printed Quiltings, newest patterns
Also, per different arrivals,
A large and general assortment of Dry
Goods,
Suitable to the present and approaching season.
t, November 5. dtf
r " LANDING,
Out of different vtffch from England, and for sale
by the fubjeribets on reasonable terms,
Superfine and common cloths, and caffimers
Ribbed and striped do. ' do.
Blankets , mottled green and silk rugs.
Superfine blue, Claret, and common coatings,
Kerseys, Bear-flcins, plains and Halfchicks,
3, Swanfeins, Serges and Flannels,
t, Britilh Ingrain Carpeting,
Hatsafiorted in cases of 1 a doz. each.
Cbocolat. tjiintzes, printed Callicoes and Handkerchiefs.
— _ _Scarl«t Cardinals, andjSfarlM Snail,
Yarn, Worftcd, and Cotton hosiery,
Beavors, Thickfetts, Velvets, Corduroys, Bcc. &e.
Buffand drab Genoa Cords of a superior quality.
6d. Bd. iod. I2d. sod. nails, and frying pans,
An assortment of Ironmongerry, Cutlery and a variety
? of India cotton, and silk go„d;.
Thomas & fojhua Fijher.
No. 5, Dock-fttreet.
Also by the Glasgow from Dublin,
1-8 and 4-4 Irifli Linens affortedin boxes of 30 pieces,
do. Brown, Glazed Linnen.
oa ' 17- , dtf.
PROPOSALS,
By WILLIAM COBBETT, opposite Christ Church, Phi
ladelphia, for publilhing by fubfeription,
ADAMS'S
e Defence of the American Conjiitutions.
n CONDITIONS:
I. The work (hall be printed on English wove-paper, page
for page, from the be ft London Edition 5 of course it
t. will be comprized in three large o&avo volumes.
11. For the three velumes, bound in board*, the price to
"" fubferibers is to be only four dollars, and to non-fubferi
bers, five dollars and a half
c 111. Ihe fubferipeion (hull remain open for ten days, and
r, an encouraging number ps iubferibersare obtained in
that publiftier engages to have the work ready
s for "delivery in fix weeks fratn the present date.
, Ijth November, 1796.
N. B. Subscriptions are taken by the principal bookfcl
lers of Philadelphia aud New York
The fubferibers tc the History of Jacobinism pre res*
e pe&fully informed, that it will be ready for delivery
early next week.
Nov. 16. %
To Let,
s From this day, to the twenty-eighth of A pril, 1797,
, A commodious house in South Second-ftreetj No- 133,
near George Hunters, apothecary, well calculated ither
for a lodging house, a ftoreor a (bop.
Nov. 16. ?t
s - -— ———— _
For Sale,
A Thres-ftory BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut
J. X street, between Front and Second streets, inw. .ch
MelTrs. James Calbraith & Co. have for many years (and
. now do) carried .on bulinefs.
■ Poffeliion will lie given ic one month, or sooner.
For terms apply to WILLIAM CELL, or
HECTOR CALBRAITH.
April »i.
For Sale,
By JeJm HoU;ngfavorth, & Co.
45 hhds. Weft-India Rum, 3d and 4th proof,
5 Barrels best Indigo, and*
A few thousand bushels of Turk's lfland fait
,9 a .n- d.
For Sale,
By J. WARDER, PARKER & Co.
An Invoice of Cordage,
Confiding of different sizes, from ,2 inch cables down
to rope of a inches, of different lengths; Imported in
the ship Swift, .rom Hull, and entitled to drawback.
*&• '>• dtf
Gafpard Cenas
Will open his Dancing School
.. oliw VH Of /7° Vernb(:r ' *10 e ' dock in the morning,
at Qellers s Hotel. o£t. 17. *mwf4JOHN! MARYLAND, - *
v » Printer, Book feller, and Staticnir,
No. '9 , South Front Street,
received by the lall arrivals from Londoh, an aflbrt
ment of Stationary, which he will-fell on tbe most j
reafonaMe terme, coofilling of —
A great variety of copper-plafe printing paper, from °
33 by 27 inches to the fmallef 1 size ; fuperfine, impe- "
rial, fnper-My ' royal, raedtuto, demy, folio, and d
quarto post writing paper ; marble a i
and blo'ting piper, meflage cards, sand 0
and potince boxes, shining fanti. ink and uik-powder, t |
pcncils, quilis, crown, "naif crown, and common size
Irish wafers, coloured and red; India rubber, pen-kn;ves
lead and pewter ink-llands, do ' belts, cork soles, copy a
"books, ilates and pencils, EnticVs diflionwy, Watts' £
psalms, &c. ™
Also, f)tne elegant prints, an aflortfcent of blank- g
American manufaiSiured writing piper, do,play r
ing cards of a fitperior qual'ty; and a collection of -j
BOOK!*; London and American editions. v
Nov. 12.
•—■ - I—.1 —. —
THIS DAY IS PURL SHED*
Pr'uf 37 12 Cents.
■The Pr-etenficns of Thomas JefFer- f,
• ion to the Presidency, c
- i EXAMINED, v
•'And the Charges againftjohn Adams
REFUTED.
Akdrefled to the Citizens of America in general,
am'. 4>artic iiarly,
To the F le-flors of the President.
Sold by
W. YOUNG, MILLS & SON, Corner of Second c
and Chefnur-ftreets. '<
November 5. tts d
TlrlE Par Rerfliip o? JONATHAN HARVEY & Co. £
being this day mutual consent,. those iiHebt
ed to said firm ari* requested to make speedy payment to P
Jonathan Harvey, w .0 is authorized to receive the fame,
and those who. have ~iy demands will please to bring in n
their acccnir*-o hi for lettlement
The Bufinejs will be Continued 0
... %) onathai .Harvey, »
Jf HIS sS'.ik /O.K.'. front-street •,
vV 'ier> he ! as tor Sale,
-A general afiortment of Dry Goods.
November 4 1796. Jim
"emanuel walker,
Ao. 73, South F r °nt Street*
Has for Sale,
30 '■Hoglhcads tobacco of Richmond jnfpeitidn.
15 do. do. of Peteilbcrg do.
15 do. do. of Frederick (burg do.
.50 do. do. of Alexandria.
Nov. i». -mw&ifot.
To be' Let,
'A largfTcellar, in Walnut-Areet just above Fourth-Street, that
5 4& floored with twa'inch plank, and WiU'holtt upwtiffs of 100
•pipes dfw ne.
Alf6, a Stables and Coach-hmife, that will hr.ld four hor
fe&and twa carriages; and fcveral ftorc* in Fourth Street'—
Apply-to
George Meade.
Who has for faie,
«5 boxes of Caftik soap
Red Lisbon Wine
A few pipes of bil! exchange wirie *
A few barrel*mefs beef ■ \
And a few barrels ot (hip bread*
'Nov. 4. "wjt?
~F 0 k SALE,
A very Valuable Eft ate,
CALLED TWI VTEN HA M, situate m the
townlhip of Upper Derby, and county of Delaware,
J 1-2 miles from Phiiad Iphia, and half a mile from the
new Welterr l oad: contairing 130 acre, of, excellent land,
45 of which are good wa- ered meadow. 90 of prime wood
land, and the reft arable of th« firft quality. There are
■on the premises a good two story brick house, with 4 rooms
on a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a pump-well
of excellent water in front; a large frame barn, (fables,
and other Convenient buildings; a fnioke-hou'fe and itone,
fpring-houfc; two good 'apple orchards, and one of peach
es. The fields are a!! ir. clover, except those immediately
under tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advantage
of water in each c! them, which renders it peculiarly-con
venient for grazing
The situation is pleafantandhcalthy, and from the high
cultivation of the land, the good neighbourhood, and the
vicinity ro" the city, it is very suitable for a gentleman's
■country feat.
The foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Harman,
dcccal'ed, and. offered for sale by
Mordecai Lewis,
o£. 31. ikar Surviving Executor
FOR S A L E.
A PLANTATION,
ABOUT \% miles from this City, situate in Abing
ton Townlhip, Montgomery-County ; containing
*70 a«rcs, a new itone house, two stories high, 2 rooms on a
floor, fire places in each, a stone kitchen and Hone spring
-house, over pa excellent Spring of water, a barn, flabhe,
sheds, barracks, Stc. A large apple orchard, and a varieiyof
other fruit, about 12 acres of good mcadovi* well watered,
*nd wood fufficicnt for fire, and iencing the place. Poflcfli- 1
onmiy be had the ift of Apiil next. ProDerty in this city
will be taken in exchange, or MORRIS and NICHOLSONS
Notes in payment. Enquire at No. 37, Arch-Street.
Philadelphia, September 13, 1796. ttftf
TAKE NOTICE.
\ i X*FIE Creditors of Grubb aud Paine, late of Lancifter, or
A Dauphin Counties, Merchants ; are hereby informed
that the lutfcribers are appointid by lilt Court of Common
Pleas of PhiljdilphiaCounty, as CommifTioncrs, to audit, fet
tle, ard finally adjust the accounts ot Mordecai Lewis, ttuftfe,
appointed by Peter Grubb, for the benefit of the creditors of
the (aid Peter Grubb and William Paine, as wtll as the debts
t- d demands of the creditors of the said Grubb and Paine.
Therefore, this is to givenetice, that we have agreed to meet
V the City-T»vern, at Philadelphia, on Saturday the 19th inft.
at fix o'clock in the evening, when and where, all those that
have any -demands, are hereby requeued to present and efta
h'llb titeir clarms against the (aid Grubb and Paine, otherwise
they will be excluded from their dividend.
JOHN VAUGHAN,
DAVID H. CONYNGHAM.
FRANIC6 WES7.
Philadelphia, Bth November, 1796, *eod 31
Mr. FRANCIS,
' (Of the New Theatre)
TAKES this opportunity of returning thanks to his
Icholare and to the public. Mr. Francis intends,
on his return from Maryland, to open a public aca-
I'cmv for oancing, upon a plan entirely new. He
flatters himfelf that his attention to his pupils hi
therto renders any prcniifes of conducing his future
frhemcs on the ni'oli liberal and Arideft terms, of pro
jj! iety, totally unaeceflary.
iV. R. Private tuition a^ufual.
Jane 3 ; "w
—— . all
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE JJNITED STATES.
Mr. Femmo, . 'I 1
In a publication in your gazette, a Writer der.ies pr
that Mr. Jeffeffon countenanced the emancipation yc
of the slaves niw exi/lin * in the United States, al- in
leging that his scheme only extended to the cliil- pa
dren which were to be born after the palling of the cr
aft-; scut as the ad was proposed in the year *780 be
or thereabouts, it is certain that had it pafled, all yc
the young negroes its Virginia would he tifiv free, yc
To (hew however that Mr. Jeffeifon's ideas have
always been favorable to emancipation generally, I of
retjueft you to publish the followinghe
frrrefpondence between Benjamin Banneker. axe- b)
gro almanac maker, and Th»mas Jeffftfon, feercta- re
ry cf Jlat t gf the United States of America fe!
I'hey weir publiflted in the American Daily Ad- in
vertifer of this city in 1791. . t0
From the Virginia Ganettt.
Mr.Dixon,
You are requeSed to insert the following letter nc
from Benjamin Banneker, a black man, to fe- N
cretary of state, with his answer thereto, and you
will oblige a number of your readers.
Maryland, Baltimore county, near Ellicott's
Lower Mills, Aug. 19, 1791. j
To THOMAS JEFFERSON, Esq.
Sir, tc
1 am fully convinced of the greatness of that
freedom which I take with yeu on the present oe
cafian ; a liberty which seemed to me scarcely al
lowable, when I refle&ed on that diftingnilhed and
dignified liation in which you Hand ; and the L a !" h„
most general prejudice and prepolTeiTion which is
so prevalent in the world against those of my com-
plexion,
, I suppose it a truth too well attested to you, to
need a proof here, that we are a race of beings
Who have long labored under the abuse and eenfure
of the world, that we have long been looked opon
with an eye of contempt, considered rather ar
brutish than human, aud scarcely capable of mental
endowments.
I hope 1 may fafelj admit, in confequejice of
that repott which has reached me, that you are a
man far less inflexible in sentiments of this nature ,
than many others, that you are measurably friend
ly and well disposed towards us, and that you arc
willing and ready to lend your aid and afliflance to C °
our relief from those many diftrcfTes and numerous
calamities to which we arc reduced.
Now, fir, if this Isr founded in truth, I appre- ■
heod you will readily embrace every opportunity, .
to eradicate that train of absurd and falfe ideas and
opinions which so generally prevail in [refpedt to m
t us, and that your lentiments are concurrent with
3 mine, which are, that one universal Father hath
given being to us all, and that he hath not only
made us of one fieih, but that he hath also, with- 0
out partiality, afforded us all the fame fenfatiens,
and that however variable 'we may be in society or
religion'; however diverfified in situation or colour, w
we are all of the fame family, and stand in the fame
relation to him.
If these are sentiments of which you are fully
pe fuaded, I hope you cannot but acknowledge,
that it is the irdifpfafible duty of those who main
tain for themselves the> rights of human nature,
and who prefefs the obligations of christianity, to
extend their power and influence to the relief of i,
a every part of the human taee, from whatever bur
then or oppreflion they may unjustly labor under,
c and this I apprehend a full conviction of the truth '
. and obligation of these principles should lead us °
' all to. "
' Sir, 1 have long been convinced, that if your c
1 love for yourfelve6, and for those inestimable laws V '
i, which preserve to you the rights of human nature, f
was founded on sincerity, you could not but be fe
licitous, that every individual of whatever rank or
diftindton, might with you equally enjoy the blef- ['
. sings thereof; neither could you reft fatisficd, fhsrt '
Of the raeft adive diffufion of your exertions, in
order to their promotion from any state of degra- n
e dation, to which the unjullifiable cruelty and bar- 3
5 barifm of men may have reduced them.
I freely and chearfully acknowledge, that lam ,
of the African race, and in that colour which is
natural to them of the deepest dye, and it is un
der a sense of the most profound gratitude to the
supreme ruler of the universe, that I noW confefs
• to you, that lam not under that state of tyranni
cal thraldom, and inhuman captivity, to which toa
many efyny btethren are doomed, but that I have
abundantly tailed of the fruition of those blellingg,
a which proceed from that free and unequalled liber
g ty with which you are favored, and which 1 hope
• f you will willingly allow you have received from the
immediate hand of that being, from whom pro- I
i- ceedeth every good and perfect gift. p
y Suffer me to recall to your mind that time, in v
* which the arms and tyranny of the British crown ti
were exerted with every powerful effort in order to
reduce you to a state qf Servitude ; look back I en- e
treat you on the variety of dangers to which you n
ir were exposed 5 reflect on the time in which every 0
d human aid appeared unavailable, and in which even ii
hope and fortitude wore the afpeft of inability to t
e, the confli£t, and you cannot but be led to a fcrioue p
3' and gtateful sense of your miraculous and provi- v
" dential preservation ; jyu carinot but acknowledge
cl that the present freedom and tranquillity which you ti
1. enjoy, you have mercifully received, apd that it is fc
" the peculiar blessing of heaven. ' v
f e This fir was a time in which you clearly saw into t
the injustice of a state of slavery, and in wliitb you n
had just apprehensions of the horror of its condi
tion,—it was now that your abhorrence thereof was q
so excited, that you publicly held fotth this try* n
and invaluable doftrinc, which is worthy to be re- c
corded and remembered in all succeeding ages, t
"We hold ttoefe truths to be felf-evident, that all f
men are created equal, that they are endowed by a
s, their creator with certain unalienable rights, and f
a- that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit 2
*e of happiness." r
Here was a time in which your tender feelings a
for yourselves had engaged you thus to declare ; t
yon weri then impteffed witli proper ideas of the
i re *t valuation of liberty, and the free possession f
w of taofe fc>l«flingi v t<) which jrou were entitled by t
A
nature; but, Gi% how pitiable is it to reflefi, that if
although'you were so fully convinced of the bent- c(
volence of the father of mankind, and of his e- c<
qual and impartial distribution of thtfe rights and ai
privileges which he had conferred upon them, that j d
you should at the fame time counteract his merce», I
in detaining by fraud and violence so numerous a V
part of my brethren under groaning captivity and p
cruel oppreflion, that you fliould at the fame time t<
be fourd guilty of that most criminal aft, which 1«
you profeffedly detested in others, with rrfpeA to tl
yourielves. . .
I suppose that your knowledge of the situation h
of my brethren is too extensive to need a recital b
here ; neither lhall I presume to ptefcribe methods li
by which they may be relieved , otherwise than by h
recommending to you and all others, to wean youi- h
selves from those Marrow prejudices which you have fc
imbibed with refpea to them, and proposed I
to his friends, " put your foul in their fouls stead" ci
—thus (hall your hearts be enlarged with kindness o:
and benevolence towards them, and thus (hall you i.
need neither the direction of myfelf or others in ai
what manner to proceed herein. 'I
And now, fir, although my sympathy Sod affec- b
tion for my brethren hath taufed my ealar£ement
thus far, I ardently hope that your candour and l'r
generotty will plead with you in my behalf, when b
1 make known to you, that it was not origisally my m
design ; but that having taken up «ny pen in order tl
to dire& to you as a prefcnt, a copy of an almanack ts
which I hive calculated for the fuccecding year, I fr
was anexpeftedly and unavoidably led thereto. n<
This calculation is the produftitnl of my ardu- 1
ous study in this my advanced stage of life, (59) for ol
having long had unbounded desires to become ae
quainted with the secrets of nature, I have had to tc
gratify my curiosity herein through ray own adidu- ti
ous application to allronomical Itudy, in which I p'
need not recount to you the many diffievilties and 01
disadvantages which 1 hare had to encounter.
And although I had a'.moft declined to make my fr
calculation for tfee lujuing year, in cantetfuenc* of m
that time which I had altottedtheretor being taken tl
up at the federal territory, by the request of Mr- ti
Andrew Ellicett, yet finding myfelf under fcvcral o:
cngsgemeats to Printers of this (late to whom 1 ti
had communicated my design, on my return to my it
place of residence, I indaftrioufly applied myfelf
thereto, which I hope I have accomplished with tl
correftnefa and accuracy ; a copy of which I have F
taken the liberty to direst to you, and which 1 it
humbly requelt you will favorably receive, and al- 1)
though you may have the opportunity of perusing o
it after its publication, yet 1 chose to fend it to you 1<
in manuscript previous thereto, that thereby you «
might not only have an earlier infpe&ian, but that d
you might also view it in my own hand writing. li
And now fir, I (hall conclude, and fubferibe I
myfelf with the most profound refpeft, your most n
obedient humble servant. v
BENJAMIN BANNEKER. tl
N. B. Any communication to me may be had n
by a dirc&ion to Mr. Elias Ellicot, merchant is
Baltimore towa. e
B. B. ; a
To Mr. BENJAMIN BANNEKER.
Philadelphia, Augujl 30, 179 1. e
SIR, W
I THANK you sincerely for your letter of the a
19th instant, and for the almanack it contained, ti
Nobody wi(hcs more than I do, te fee such proofs e
as you exhibit, that nature has given to our black u
brethren, talents equal to those of the other colours
of men, and that the appearance of a want of them a
is pwing merely to the degraded condition of their a
cxillence both in Africa and America. 1 can add c
with truth that no body wishes more ardently to fee 1;
a good system commenced for railing the condition t
both of their body and mind to what it ought to °
be, as fact as the imbecillity of their prefcnt exif- T
tencei and other circumstances which cannot be neg- v
le&ed, will admit. 1:
I have taken the liberty of fending your alma- t
nack to Monsieur de Condorcct, secretary of the v
academy of Tcieaces at Paris, and member of the a
philanthropic society, because I conCdercd it as a
document to which yout whole coloui had a right r
for their justification against the sentiments which f
have been entertained of them. p
1 am with great esteem, fir, v
Your most obedient * f
Humble servant, a
THOMAS JEFFERSON. t
'■ ■ t
From tie Daily Advcrtijer.
To the PEOPLE of the UNITED STATES {
IT cannot have cfcaped your observation, that
Providence seems, in a remarkable manner, to have '
promoted your prosperity, by the very means j
which unprincipled men have, at various times, in
tended to tffed your ruin,
The unbounr d usurpations of the Britiffi gov- *
ernmant, compelled us to the cAteft, which termi- '
nated in independence. Thair infatuation became '
our salvation ; and, for a series of years, the bless- C
ings of good government, with foreign and domes- !
tic peace, have raised us to a pitch of national im- '
portance and prosperity, for the time, perhaps, ne- *
ver equalled in the annals of mankind.
The firft appearance of the French revolution, "
J must have excited the roost lively feelings ia the
s brealts of those solitary individuals throughout the *
world, who, though oppressed by the hard hai*J of '
a tyranny, had formed a just cilimate of the riVKts of '
i man. 1
But, in this weftetn hemisphere, a whole nation
s of freemen, exulted as if animated by one com
t rnon spirit, at the profpeft that twenty.fix millions
- of people, who had no other idea of liberty than
n of ' dollfln g 'he grand monarch, were about to
(hake oft the (hackles of slavery, and become a free '
f and independent people. That we (hould have a
litter republic, which, contrary to the insidious t
t and mterefted policy of other governments, would 1
rejoice in our prosperity, a „d raa i nta in a friendly 1
s and (raternifing intercourse, untainted by wild am- t
; 0»J0R, and motives of felf interest alone. .
c 1 hefe pleasant imaginations, however, were dif- t
n pelled, by the arrival of a minister, chargcd with r
jr potver* andinitruftiwrn to involve the United States t
in an European war. The happiness of a vf*iol e
community—a total derangeihent of all fifcal con
cerns—and an accumulation of immense debts and
' and taxations upon, probably, our ehildreus chil
dren weie to be the facrifice on the part of the
United States, 'without one fmgle ohjeß of advantage.
Very different, indeed, were the inducements which
prompted the ei-devant government of France to
take part with us iri-our contest with Great-Bri
tain—being nothing lef> than the feveration of all
the colonies of the dominion of their ancient rival
The grand monarch and his ministers would never
hare lent us one livre, nor have spilt one drop 0 f
blood on that eccalion, merely from their love of
liberty—And the then miserable people of France
had no idea of the true principles of civiland p 0 !
litical liberty ; much less did they, as a nation of.
fer or rifle iheir their lives for our independent.
Hence it is, that I have ever been at a loss to con.
ceive how we are baund in gratitude to the people
of France. If there is any gratitude in the-tafe
u must be certainly due to the manes of that mon'
arch, and 3 few individuals, upon wkofedeftru&ion
tire nation have since ere&ed the guillatine of li.
berty.
1 cannot conclude this iiigreffion without abferv.
ing, that in the adjustment of a treaty of peace
between Great-Britain and America, the French
ministry had by the fubtility of intrigue, at which
they are proverbially dexteroUs, so managed cer.
tain members of congress, as to get inftruSions
from aur government to their commissioners, to do
nothing, but in concert with Mr. Vergennes.—.
These dupe* to French politics, have been the pells
of this country to the present hour.
Mr. Vergennes used all his cunning and influence
to induce aur commissioners to enter into negocia
tions without the acknowledgement of our inde
pendence—-to rob us of the fiffieries—and to limit
our botindcries weft ward by the Ohio,
By what means, fellow-citizens, were we rescued
from the base designs of these perfidious Frcaeh
ilien—ikefe boasted friends and allies—theft apef-*-,
ties of liberty, to vvtiura -we are bound by eternal
ties of gratitude ? By the penetration and firmnrls
of that man, principally, who negociated the Bri
<ti(h treaty, and fared jis from being again involved
iu all the calamities of war.
By Mr. Jay, and Mr. Adam 9, who, fuperinr to
the artifices, corruption, and intrigues both of the
French and Britilh ministry, at the hazard of an
impeachment for a breach of orders, nobly and firm
ly opposed the ignominious and treacherous devices
of our good French allies, until they were compel
led to grant us, as a preliminary, that independence '
we now polTcfs. But for them, we flmuld', it this
day, probably, have enjoyed Batavian liberty—the
liberty of obeying the commands of a Marat, a
Robespierre, a Jacobin club, or that five-headed
monster, the Directory. These commissioners
were the saviours of their country—and, like
the jirjl, have received a poor and ominous fpcci.
men of republican gratitude.
But to return—Providence, for this time, palsi
ed the defrges of our allies, by the intemperance
and indiscretion of their minister, who, being de
ceived by Mr. Jefferfon, and the party who threw
thcmfelvcs into his bnffinv 1 rft —anj
excited that lpirit of national pride and isdig .ation
which (hould forever fire the foul of every hanelt
and independent Americra, at any impudent at
tempt of any European nation or minister to influ
ence our government, or piaiftife deceptious arts
upon free and enlightened republicans.
It would have been supposed, that the checks
and mortifications given to Mr. Genet, would have
afforded some direction for the coaduft of his fuc
cefTors ; that our interrjal enemies, being repeated
ly defeated in all their machinations with the French
to difarganife the government, or break the union,
or involve us in war; after a full discovery, upon
repeated proofs, that the great mass of Americans
were deter mined, and were able, to support the
laws and of their conntry, against
both foreign and domeftie violence and intiigue ;
would have been covered with shame and remerfe,
and have desisted from their wicked pursuits.
It would have been supposed, that the govern
ment of France, however fafely they might pre
sume to insult and controul the deliberations of
people within the immediate vortex of their power,
would have sense and discretion enough not to make
similar attempts »pon a government, frparsted-by
an ocean of three thoufasd miles ; and upon a na
tion, such as, finco the flood, never existed upon
the face of the earth—a nation, I mean, of inde
pendent freeholders—the nation, which jirft (hewed
them the road to freedom—a nation, which re
fpe<3s the original principles of their revolution,
and which, at this moment, wishes them, moftsar
dially, a return of with all the blefiings at
tendant upon a free, equal and independent repub
lican form-of government.
But all these confidcrations notwithstanding, the
government of France seems infatuated, or deter
mined to convioce the world, that names are empty
things; that republicans who have power, will fxer
cife it, with as much abuse as despotic princes; that
they are ss much influenced by pride, ambitieii, in
justice and felf interest, at the people of any other
governments ; and that where the iaft prevails, they
make no discrimination between friends or tues,
allies or neutrals, republicans or anti-rcpublicars.
Of these things, we have a specimen in the late
conduct of the Directory, refpeiiing the American
. commerce, and the confequerit extraordinary beha
viour of their minister, Mr. Adet ; both of which
will be the fubjedl of another address, from
WM. WI.LLCOCKS.
Nov. io, 1796.
For the Gazette of the United States.
To the Electors of the President of the United Slater.
Altho the merits of the cafididates for the Prefi
-1 dency have been very amply difeu/Ted, the papers
have been ncarlv fifent on the fubjefil of Vice-Pre
lident. This officer is by the constitution diretied
to per/orm tire duties of President of the Senate,
a very important (lation, and, is, moreover, to fill
the Executive chair, in the event of the death or
reftgnation of the President, which raay be for »
term of nearly four years.r>-itf Elc&ors will no doubt turn their attentiao
tr a citizen of the firfl-rate merit for * Ration, which
on several contingencies, may becom* that of chief
P m-gijlrat* of tha United States for so long a period.
The two persons who have been principally nam
ed in converfatiansare Thomas Pinckney of South
Carolina, and Aaron Burr ef New-York. The
former it supported by th« friends of Mr. Adams,
the latter by those of Mr. Jefcifon.
In order to direst your choice asiar as my inform
«tion goes, I will make you acquainted with theref
pe&ive merits of those candidates.
Mr. Burr, at present a member of the Senate
of the United States from New-Yi>rk, has been al
ways considered as opposed to the constitution, and
has i-lways opposed in the Senate the measures of
administration underPrefident Walhington : his time
in the Senate being nearly elapsed, and having little
profpeft of a re ele&ion from that federal date,
», Mr. Burr was put *p as a Hate feaator at the la*
state ele&ion in June, and run on the anti-federal tic
ket, which being defeated by a two to
one by the federal paity, ht could not even get in
to the state legislature. ,
By a law of the United States the Vice Presi
dent is to a <ft as a commissioner for managing the
monies of the finking fund, which duty necefTaiily
involves some commanication with the Betni of the
United States in which the public monies arc depo
sited, and to which rtfort is sometimes necefTary for
anticipations, when the public revenue cannet meet
the public demands.
But the ill-tempered proceeding of the Dire&ors
ia a late unfriendly measure towards that gentleman
will probably excite on his part an hofility towrds
that institution, which might eventually be in a Vice
President very detrimental to the public interests.
1 Mr. Pinckney, the alfociate of Mrr Adams, on
the federal ticket, is a virtadys, enlightened, and
patriotic citizen, independent in his fortune as well as
in his principles. His approbation of the measures
of Wafhiogten's administration, bin attachment to
the federal eonftuntionf—tii» l"i foi
pendehce of his country are all well known. His
diplomatic talents and his persevering zeal for our
national prefpenty have been folly evinccd in his
conduct in England and his treaty with Spain. In
his difpofitior, he is mild, but firm,conciliatory,
without facrificing etfential principles, prudent with
out timidity.
Such are the candidates fellow citiiens ; can y»u
hesitate in your choice ?
A REAL FEDERALIST.
■■■' 11
For the Gazette of the United States.
No. V.
Te the E letters of the Prrjident of the United Stater.
Rejp-Bable Fellow Citizens,
THE sequel of the 34th letter of Mr. Adaihs,
remains to be considered. We have seen, that in
•ommenting upon certain republican sentiments of
Marchamont Nedham, Mr. Adams did not fei*e
the oecafion to panegyrize representative or elective
government. He fays it may anfwervery well, but
that it is a hazardous experime/A, that filch experi
ments have bemi made before, and are known al
wajf* to hav* enArj fn .gaje.m3y, Sr.-. 1-I:r.r
have universally preferred " chance" or hereditary
rulers to fuel), as they have procured by their pad
elective experiments. Thus in truth does he throw
clouds over our profpefls under elr&ive govern
ments, when discoursing upon the opinions of ie
publican theorids. Thus docs he abandon the de
fence of the cardinal principle of our conditutions, '
and thus, under the cover of a defence of three divi- '■
Jions of power, does lie run into the paths, that lead :
to the oppofttt principle of hereditary power. This !
is ns tortured misrepresentation of the paflagts re
ferred to. We despise such treatment of refpefta
ble men, or of important fubjefts.. But how dif
ferently does Mr. Adams condufl his dlfcouifes,
when l>e is observing upon writers, who arc not, in
our sense, republican authors. He Rates the ideas
of Polybius and Plato, who both contemplated he
reditary power as parts of theit systems. He gives
the precise conceptions of Polybius in the follow
ing words. «< It is customary to eftablifli three
• ' forts of governments ; kingly government, ariflo
j M cracy, and democracy : upon which one may very
" properly afit them, whether they lay these down
" as the only forms »f government, or as the heft ;
" tor in b»ih cases they seem to be in an error, (free
" it is in an ift (I, that the heft Jorm of government it
" 'f"" wb'cb 'S compounded of all three. This is
" founded not only in reaftn but in experience, - '
'• Lycurgus having set the example of this form of
" government in the institution of the Lacedce
" manian commonwealth." This Lacedaraonian
commonwealth was the very fame mixed monarchy
noticed in the close of our firft paper. After ha
ving thus briefly and precisely Hated the political
creed of Polybius, and afier giving that of the dif
fufive Plato in a mote diffufive manner, Mr. Adams
fays, in his 34th letter, « let t:s procctf then to
make a few obiervations upon the idifceurfei of
" and Polybius." " Plato, 1 "/ fays Mr. A
daras, (p'.209, Philadelphia & London edition l"has
" fuflkiently afTcttcd the honotir g/f the laws, and
" the necessity of proper guardians of them ; but
has no where delineated the various orders of
" guardians, and the necessity of a balance between
1,1 thsm : he has, nevertheless, gi/en us premises.
« from whence the absolute necejjity of fueh orders j
* and equipnifes maybe inferred; he has (hewn I
" how naturally every simple species of government
degenerates. Ihe arillocracy, or ambitious re- j
C- ; >ub, ' c becomes immediately an oligarchy— what
«* (hall be done to prevent it ? Place two guardi
, ? n3 , ot ' he laws wa, ch the aristocracy one, J
-in the fhapeof a iing, [ 1)0 t a chief magistrate
( !' kc . ° Prefi Jem] on one fide of it ; another,
« in the lhape of a democratical afTembly, on the
other ( u!e - T he 3rifto « , racy, become an oligar
chy, changes into a democracy—how shall it Be
« prevented ? By giving the natural ariflacracy in
« society us rational and just weight, and by gi T .
« ing it a regal power to appeal to, against the mad
, tuft of the Democracy becomes a tyran
"y—.'!OW 51 th ' S be P rcven tcd ? By giving it
an able independent ally in an arijlocratical as.
„ ,th , w J h ° m ma 7 ""'te again ft the un .
jult and illegal of any oae ff,ao."
i Here we fee, that Mr, Adams having got a
i al theme to discourse upon, does not run int» duufcW
f about hereditary government(,ash6 had befoie done
in regard to ele&ive governments. The royal go
- vernments mud then appear to blm free from all
i caufc of doubt. He does not throw out thefmal
; left eaution against theni. But he takes pains to
, (hew that the regal and arijlocratical powers are
proper and necessary checks upon the madness of the
- people. Let us a/k ourselves however where and
- when such a government has been exhibited. Where
and when were a king and nobles each having a tc
e gative combined, with a real reprefenta'.ion of the
- people ?No where but in bocks. How then can
I it be thus decidedly affirmed from unexecuted' the
f ories, that the three would work so well together
f as our excellent government has done. For a new
: government, organized in a storm, in a country
, half vvilderriefa, placed over a various people, in a
time »f unexampled and extreme difficulties, a■
• midi a belligerent and infuriated woild, having to
» druggie with the arrearages of many years, em- !
barrafiied by difputc* with two neighbouring pow
ers, and by Indian wars, to carry us through with
fafety and prosperity is more than aay mixed mo.
: narchy ever accomplished. Let it be here remem
r bered, that it is the si'sl genuine representative go
t vernment the world had seen in 1789. Human
• uHairs do not appear to admit of more success and
r advantages under any^form of gbvernment. This!
ought to operate as the mod encouraging induce
ment to persevere on our present ground. We ought
not to discourage or alarm the people by commit
ting the mofl dangerous and tempting situation to any,
who doubt or disbelieve the practicability of our fy
dem, and who may incline to realize the favorite
theory of their maiurejl years in themfelvet and their
defendants. A FEDERALIST.
Philadelphia,
THURSDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 17, X 795.
Yesterday were refpedlfully interred the remains of
Major Rowland Parry, whose decease was men
tioned in this Gazette on Monday.
In the death of this worthy citizen his numerous
friends, and the community at large, sustain a lof%r—
Mr. Parry was a friend to the civil and religious rights
®f man ; a public spirited citizen ; and, as a son,
( husband, brother, and friend, has left indelible- im
preflions of his worth in the memory of an extensive
circle of connexions and acquaintance.
" Of blasted hopes, and of (hort, withering joys r
" Full oit the plaintive muse her pen employs.
" Calm (leaps the fleth—far distant, unconftn'd,
" In joys unbounded wakes th* immortal mind;"
Election Returns.
Mifflin-C'ounty Return.
Anti-Federal, 419
C Federal, 60
, Majority for the Anti-Federal Ticket, 359
Statement of Majorities.
Anti-Federal Federal
Philad. city and ccmntjr, majority 3076.
Qsksatc- 184
Cheft.-r 413
Bucks
Montgomery 100
Lancaller ' 1441
York 3083
Berks 140
Northampton 90
Northumberland 770
Cumberland 6i ?
Deuphm 430
Luzerne
Huntingdon
369s 6885
369 S
Majority for Federal Ticket j 31«o
Bedford
Somerset
Allegheny
Fayette
Greene ►
Weftmoreland
V/ afhinjjton
Mifflin un
Franklin
TRANSLATION.
Citizen P. A. Adet informs his fellow citizens,
that by order of the Executive Dire Story, he has
. to day notified the Secretary of State, the fafpen
fion of the fun&ions of the Minister Plenipotenti
ary of the French Republic, near the United States
of America, and that jn consequence of the said
suspension, they must from this day address their de
mands or claims to the Consul General or the par
ticular Consuls of the Republic.
At Philadelphia, the 25th Brumaire, the sth
yeai of the French Republic, one and in
divisible (the 15th November, 1796, O. S.)
Errors in Phocion No. 13 —fpurth line, for o*j
read in ; fifth line, for fartizans read passions.
BY THIS DAY's MAILS.
RUTLAND, (Vermont) November 7.
On Friday last, the following gentlemen were cho- ,
fen Eledtors for the choice of a President for the
United States.
Elijah Dewey, £!i(ha Sheldon, John Brideman,
and Oliver Gallup, Efqrs.
' BALTIMORE, November 14.
Lad day's eleitinn of Electors of President and \
Vice-President of the United States. The fol
lowing is a statement of the polls when closed on
Saturday evening lad.—
Baltimore-To<wn.
Whole number for Mr. Dnvall r? 0 '
Ditto Mr. Carroll 236
Majority in favour of Mr. Duvall 295 '
Baltimore- County.
Whole number for Mr. Howard 504 3
Ditto Mr. Archer 227 '
Majority in favour of Mr. Howard 277 1
Dr. Archer, we are informed by a gentleman
▼ who left Havre de-Grace yellerday morning, has
ic a majority of about 200 votes, as elector for the
>. diftrift of Baltimore and Hartford.
If We are informed, that Virginia will jive Mr.
!- Adams four or five Eledtors;
o In the difttift including Richmond, Mr. N. Wil
e Itinfott is ehofen one of the Electors of President
e and Vice-Prefident. He is in favour of Mr. Jef
d ferfon.
e NEW-YORK, November 15.
MASSACHUSETTS.
e We have returns from a number of towns in
n Hampfhirc county, by which it appears, that gen.
Shepard or Samuel Henfhaw, (both federal) wilt
•r be elected rcpreientative in congress ; and that W.
<• Lyman, the pfefent member, will have but few
y votes. In many towns, his nanne is not among
a the candidates. In the fame diitrift, Ebenezer
i- Hunt (federal) appears to have mod of the votes
0 1 for eleflor.
1- | We have averted, that for a government to order
■- I its citizens to wear a cockade, without law, is as
h tyrannical, as to requin its ciiizens to fnhfcribe a
>. ; tcft aft, or take an oath, without law. Mr. Bache
i- J with his democratic logic* abufc, ridicules the po
j-1 fition.
n Pray, citizen, is it not as completely theft to
d j Heal a shilling, as to (leal a dollar ? The effects on
is j the. loser are different; but the principle in the thief,
;■ the fame. So it is as perftS despotism to wear a
it cockade, without- law, as it is to guillotine him,
t- without latv. But, in regard to the tell law of
r, Great Britainj ahd the order of the Directory of
f. France to fay citizen and wear a ockads, there is an
te essential difference—The test, in Great Britain, is
ir a law, enacted by Parliament: the erder of the
Directory is an aft the Executive, without law,
and therefore, mnjl tyrannical of the two. Indeeß,
such a (Iretch of power in Great-Britain, could not
be exercised, without risking the head of the kin*.
The EngJifli would not bear such an aft of despot
ism in tiit E*#cutive.
We are informed thit the motion of Mr. Wat
° son, in the senate of this ftrtte, fer entering the
President's speech on the journals of that house,
js pal Ted unanimously.
ts GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES MARINE LIST.
PHILADELPHIA, November 17.
e '
ARRIVED.
Ship John, Whitwell, Guadalotipe 38
Brig Difpateh, Brum, Malaea 59
Sally, Keith, Norfolk 10
Baltimore, November 14.
Ariived on Saturday, /hip Halcyon, Capt. Tay
lot, from Providencc, (R. I.) 11 days.—Spoke
nothing.
Ycftetday arrived brig Harriet, captain Atkin
son, lS days from Cape-Francois. Left there,
captains Hudson, Wilson, Isaacs, Jones, Biays,
and Hoop Hannah, captain Eafton, all of Balti
more, and'taptain Peck, fiom New-York. Cap
tain Hye,r in a pilot boat schooner fiom New-York
a was ran alhorfc by the pilot, on the reef, when en
tering i«rb<jr. The Ekiloa, us Baltimore, I
fjiied in company with captain Atkinfon. Captain
Carney had got his frigates repaired, but had not
Med for France, as mentioned some time since, as
lie was under theneeeffity of remaining at thecapt
to keep the place tranquil. Captain Atkinfon
mentions that the conduct of the brigands'had be
come vary alarming—they-had fcnrnt all the plan
tations and murd/red all the inhabitants without re
fpeft to fige or sex, in tht vicinity of Port-de-Paix
—and at tke Cape they were under apprchenhons
of similar ravages.
Flour from 12 to 14 dollars per barrel; sugar 8
dollars per cwt. coffee 28to3ofous.
New-Yuri*, November 16.
ARRIVED. Day.
Brig Eliza, Cook, Jamaica 48
Enterprise, Fitzpatrick, Charleston 10
Amazon, Savannah 8
Schr. Jenny, Bull t St. Thomas
Sloop Randolph, Hughes, Jeremie
On Sunday la ft, arrived in this city, Capt. Luke
Codwife, of the brig Glafcow, belonging to this
port ; Capt. Codwife, with the fix following maf
lers of vtffels:
B. Hugginsj
!; / jTsSr r«f Pbn.drfphu,
1- J- Boyd, J
i- Z. Hunt, of Providence, R. I.
:s J. Mayhew, of Boston,
d Abandoned their vefTels in confeqtience of the 1
.. cruel treatment they received from the French, and '
r . made their escape from Leogane on the night ofj
the 28th September last, on board the (hip Union,
h Samuel Davis, mailer, in which they arrived at
Rhode-island.
) Capt. Boyd died soon after they left Leogane.
Capt. Davis had his cargo taken from bim> and
to regained his vessel by giving security to rgturn her,
s. if (he fhotild be condemned. They gave him eigh
ty dollars to lay in provisions, &c. but took it from
him afterwards for pert charges •; and also obliged
hiin to make good a bad debt they had contracted
in the sale of his cargo.
Captain Davis is entitled tb great applause, for
»■ cairying off from a t*dious and irkfonie confine
e ment so many of hi* countrymen, at the utmost
danger of his life, as the French fufpefting he
<> would attempt itj threatened to hang him. Capt.
Davis efFected bis laudable purpose in the r.ight.
Capt. Codwife has handed us his protefi, which
we wjll publilh to-morrow. It is a narrative of in
sult, injuliice and wanton barbarity.
Capt. King of this portj who was carried into
1 Leogane, made a protell before*a French Notary,
who, as soon as he received payment for it, took
it away again.
Patent Shot.
'T'HE general consumption of Patent Shot having been
i- prevented by the high price it has hitherto been fold
at, the Proprietors take this method of informing the
Public that they may in future be supplied with that arti
cle at the fame priccs as common Shot, by ordering their
Correfpon pants to 1 pply to Waucks, MaLTIt & Co.
London. NO v 9 wfm4w
This Day will be Landed,
' From oft board the brig DilbaVc'i, Captain P. Brum*
c from Malaga, at Morris s wharf, just above the
Drawbridge,
FRESH FRUITS, viz.
Raisins, in kog9 : boxes and balkets
. Figs in kegs
t Prunes'in boxes
Grapes in jars
Olives in dittei
Leraojis in chests
Ancbovics in kegs
Almflndi, Toft fhclied, in facts
i , Also,
. Brandy in butts
] Sweet Mountain Wine in quarter-cafks—-&c.
for Sale by
; ~ Peter Kuhm
f November 17. , " -
Sales of Malaga W'tne and Branay.
On SATURDAY MORNING, tie 19th jnft. at 10
o'clock, will be fold at Morris's whirs, just above
i the Drawbridge, by Public AuiSion,
1 100 qr. casks old Mountain Wiile, and
15 butts of Brandy,
" For approved indorfd notes at 60 days.
WM. SHANNON, AuAWneer.
I Nov. 17. 1
\ WANTED,
• As COOK, in a private family,
' A YOUNG WOMAN who can produce good rc
' commendations of ah unexceptionable character. E«-
f quire df the Printer.
f November 17. . , §tf
j Washington Lottery.
The 38th and 39th days' drrwing of the Washington
Lottery, No. 2, are received at the office No. 234, Mar
' ket-ftreet, where tickets may be examined.
1 N. B. Information given where tickets in all the other
t lotteries may be procured.
November 17, 1796. d
Wafhinotoft I.otterv.
O ✓ t ■ «
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be purchnfed or
exchanged for prizes, at the Office, No. 147. Chefnut
e Sreet, where a correS Numerical Book is kept for publie
infpe&ion. Also Canal Lottery Tickets for Tale or ex
changed for prizes drawn in the Washington Lottery, of'
which the 38th and 39th days returns are received.
gj" The Bufmefs of a Broker carried on as usual.
V A SHARE in the NEW THEATRE to be fold
on reasonable terras.
November 17. ttstf
g For Sale by Public Auction,
,On Saturday Evening next, the tiptK
'"ft- at 7 if not previously
3 disposed of at private faie,
. The Brigantine Fame,
c Laying at Mr. Samuel Bower's wh rf, and now
ready forfea; a strong and well built veflel, and calcur
lated either for the European or Weft-India ti .d s
she will carry nea«iy 2000 barrels—She has been just
, hove down, and may be sent to sea at a small expense,
i, For further particulars, apply to Capt. Knox on board,
to Samuel Smith, Ship Broker, Or
JOHN CONNELLY, Au£lioneer.
November 17. 3t d
No. 154.
DiJiriS of Pennsylvania, to <wit :
n f r-*—l DE it rcraem tiered tha; on the a6th day of Sep?
t < seal >X) tember,in the twenty-firft year of the Inde
-9 v. W-* J pendence of the United States of America, A
t btaham Bradley, junior ofthe said Diftrift,hath deposited
in this office, the title of a Map, the right whereof, he
B dlaims is author in the Words following to wit,
"Map of the United States exhibiting the lltuations,
" connections & distances of the Poft-Offices, Stage-roads,
" Counties, Ports of Entry and Delivery for vef
x " ids, and the principal rivers; "
"By ABRAHAM BR ADLEY, jun." '
In conformity to the Ail of the Congress of tke United
States intituled '« An aA for the encoutagement of iearn-
S ingby fecuringthe copies of maps, charts, and books to
the authors and proprietors of such copies during the
times therein mentioned."'
~ Samuel Caldwell, Clerk,
8 'DiffriS of Pennfyhmr.ia.
D The above map may be had of the author at ihe General
_ Poft-Office, next door to the War-Office in Fifth-i\ree ,
and at his hour., No. 78. corner of Cr, .vn Stre-r and
is Brewers Alley between 4 th and sth, and Vine anri Cal
e lowhjjl Srcets. Prices from 3£to j dollars each oord
e ing to the manner in which they s e finiffied. ihepro
is grefs (or arrivals and departures) of the Mail on the Mi. n
r Line may be had separate for 371 eeents.
3* • iaw6w.
No. 153. 'I
DiflriS of Pennsylvania, to w't
BE it remembered, that on the twomy-Tourth of
September, in the twenty-firft year of the in9ei.cn '-n
of the United States of America, William ,Cobs.
the said diftri<ft hath deposited in this office the TitieY
a Book, the right whereof he claims as pro rietor,
e 1 the words following, to wit.
d ■ " The Political Censor, or Review bf the moit-iiit
,f | " refling political occurrences relative to the Unit.d States.
I( "ot America—By Peter Porcupine" -In copi' rt iitv ><
t 'the A a of the Congress of the United Statet mtitu'ed
, •' An Ail ior the encouragement ot learning ty fecunng
: the Copies of Maps, Chaits and Books to th< uthors
ana proprietors of such Copies, during the tithes herein
i 1 mentioned." SAMUEL, r aLBWELI CKrk v
, Difl iit. Pi !v . •
* To be i old,
A PLANTATION, in thetown of Wood-bory, coun
-3 xi- ty of Gloucester, ,ad ltate of New-Jetfev,
ingabotttonehundrea and fifty aeres ; a tuiuble proper
r tion ot which is woodland and improved meadow A
great pait bf the arable !ar,d is in a high flat; of cultivjl
tion, and very natural to the produiftion of Red C'lo
' On said plantation there is a genteel two-story brie!- ». v . .
: with four rooms on a floor, vnd a good dry eel! 1 .nder
. tlie tvhole ; together with a barn, corn-crib's and carrW. <:'■
_ haufe. The garden is large, and contai a goo. eollec
tion of the betl Kinds of grafted and inoculated !
the orchard confide of about three hundre J grafted appie
trees. Any person iaclined to purchase said premiles,may
be informed of the terms by •pplying- to
' ANDREW HUNTER.
July 19 p
Just Imported,
In the fchoouer Lucy, Capt. Prows, from Madeira,
and to be said by
ELLISTON & JOHN PEROT,
j Best London particular Madeira Wi'ne>
'I hree years old,
; In pipes, hogsheads, and quarter calks, fit for ira
. mediate use.—They have also for sale,
A few bags of Juniper Berries.
3 Oaober **- W&S4Wc IO hoglheads St. Croix Rum,
. s Pipes Vinegar,
V . For Sale, by
Ezekiel Hall,
No. ao, Penn Street.
Nov. y.
r ' v
William Gardner, No. 62,
SOUTH FRONT-STREET,
Has received by the late arrival* from Liverpool
and Glasgow,
An ajfortment of DRY GOODS,
Which he will difpufe of upon low terras, for ca(h
or the usual credit, by the piece or package—
Cori/ifling of
CAMBRICKS, Printed Calicoes and Chintzes
Printed Handkerchiefs and Shawls
Jaconet and Book Muslins, well aflorted
D". do. tamboared do.
Do. do. Handk's and Shawls do.
White and coloured threads
Diaper and diaper table cloths
Cotton check and check handkerchiefs
Striped and coloured nankeens
Dimities and quiltingt
Tapes and garters.
Cotton counterpanes
Mens and womens gloves
Plats and dockings
Ofnaburgs, bed-ticks and brown Holland
Stationary, &c. &c. &c.
November 3. mts
"STOP THE THIEVES!!!
LAST Wednesday Evening. Oftobcr 19, oetween the C
hours of .7 and ioo'clock, the bed room of Mr Ricketts in
O'Eller's hotel was entered, either bv means of falfe keys, "
or at the window, by some villain or villains, who mufl have
been acquainted w i h the situation of the house (as the door
"was found locked after they had committed the theft) who
took away from amongst several trunks, ONE which con
tained a valuable part of Mr. Rickett's property, but of which
he is not yet able to ascertain rhe contents particularly. As- 5
ter bringing the said trunk awav, and emptying it of up
wards of a thousand dollars in cash and bank notes, the vil- r
Jains left it behind the circus, during the time that the per
formances of the evening were going forward' a
It is earnestly requetted, that all tavern-keepers on the stage c
roads, and the ferry hollies, as well asallcivil officers, may g
be watchful in lecuring suspicious persons, who may have a ,j
redundanee of cash, which their appearance wuuld by no a
means bespeak them to be poiTeffed of. q
One Hundred Dollars Reward ti
Will be given for securing the thief or thieves, and a fur. ®
ther reward for fccuring them with the property. "
o£t 12- d ®
1 —— ———— b
Twenty Guineas Reward.
RANAW AY from the fubferiber on the zjd October, ol
* Dark MULATTO BOY, named MObES; %i years al
•Id; about 5 feet 8 inches high ; had on a mixed green gi
coat, with a green velvet cape and oval yellow buttons ; o
a striped veil; a pair of dark spotted pantaloons, and t\
Trhole boot. mHch worn. It is probable he may ehange at
Jus name and dress. He has been accustomed to driving fii
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will be tt
paid for fccuring him so that the fubfcriher may get him
again, and if brought home all reasonable charges paid by
Robins Chamberlaine. "
Eafton, Maryland, Nov. 10. 14 §jm2awtf tt
James Mufgrave, »
GOLDSMITH & JEWELLER,
No. 41, south Second-Greet,
HAS just received an assortment of Plated Ware y
and Jewellery, PlatedTeaand Coffee Urns, C®ffee
Pots, Tea ditto, Caflors from 5 to 8 bottles, Sugar and' s t
Cream Basons, Bottle Stands, Baskets, high Candltffics,
Brackets and Chamber ditto, Branches Sconces, a variety
of Silver and Plated Shoe La'chets, Spurs, bfc.&c. war
ranted of the best plate ; Ladies .and Gentlemeas Gold
Watch Chains, Seals and Keys; Necklaces, Neck Chains,
Eear Rir.gs, Finger Rings, Lockcts, Bread Pins, Stone
Knee-Buckles, with many other aitides in the above A
branches.
He has like wife received an extensive assortment of
japann'd tea and coffee Urns, persian, blue, brown,
black and gold. q
All kinds of work inthe gold aud silver line; minia- L;
tures set, asd hair work executed as usual. A
"November 9. tu th & f C
A few Pipes of WINE, ™
Imported in the brig FAME, from Madeira, to be fold Y '
by MORDECAI LEWIS, c
Who has also to tlifpofe of on reasonable terms,
]i<ISH LINENS, well assorted K
&ANDANNA HANDKERCHIEFS
WIDE NANKEENS
COSSAS AND BAFTAS
RAVENS DUCK *
DIAPERS A
QUICK SILVER
CHINA
ROLL BRIMSTONE, &c.
Obar 27. tawim J
Lottery and Broker's Office, T
■No. 64, South Second street. ci
TICKETS >m the Canal Lottery, No. », for sale—a
Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in di
the late lottery. tc
Check Books kept for examination and re filtering, for m
the eity of WalMngton, No. 1) and Pattcfon Lotteries, a:
both of which are now drawing—.information where
tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn ol
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New- w
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
examination. d
The fubferiber solicits the application of the public a;
and his friends, who wish to purchase or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands, p
4cc. or to obtain money on deposit of property.
*,* Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for a'
sale atTenDollsrs each, which will be drawn early in h
the Spring. Cl
Wrn. Blackburn* 1
Philadelphia, Augufl 18, 1796. mth
Philadelphia, November 6,1796.
ALL persons delircroa to contra# for furnifhing ef e
Rations and Quarter-Masters' flores, for the Is
troops in Philadelphia or Fert-Mifflin, on Mud Ifiand, h
during the year 1797 —are requelled to fend their pro- f<
pofals sealed, on or before the firft day of December u
next, to
TENCH FRANCIS, Purveyor.
The component parts of the Rations, are
t pound of Floor or Bread
I pound of Beef or 3-4 ef a pound of Pork '
1-1 a gill of Rum, Brandy
or Whiskey
» quart of Salt 1 (
izsLirtsr }*»■»««<-. ;
1 pound Cskaltt J 4
Nov. 9
SWANNPS,
Riding School > Horse Academy iff Injirmary•
Adjoining the Public Square, Market Street.
T. SWANN
RETURNS his sincere thanks to those gentlemen by whom
he has been employed, during his rtfideuce in this City, and
flattershimfelf thai the success of his efforts, in the numerous,
obstinate and dangerous diseases in Horses, in which he has
been consulted, together with his moderate charges, will se
cure their future favors and recommendation.
>1 He now begs leave to inform them and the public at large
that his spacious and commodious premises, erected for the
purpofet above described are open for the reception of pupils
of either sex, who wifli to be inftru&ed in the Art of Riding,
h and the right method of governing their horses, so as to ride
them with eale, elegance, and fafety—their horses will be
carefully and expeditiously broke, for every purpose, and
made obedient to the will ot the riders ; the natural powers
which are (hut up in them, will be unfolded by art, calling
forth uniformity of motion, and giving to that noble animal
all thole beauties of a&k>n which providence ha> so bounti
lully bellowed on them.
Also, at his hospital, every di former to which the horse is
liable will be treated according to the rules of art, confirmed
by long and repeated experience.
The utility of the above inUitution has never been qoeftion
ed, that it has long been wanted in this city, every gentleman's
Itud will manifeft, and T. Swa#n as the firft eftabliiher of
theveterenary art, solicits arid relies upon the fuppoiteftha
public (which he iiever anxious in serving) to enable hire to
bring it to pcrfe&ion. The idea of a fubfeription for that
purpose has becu hinted by fereral gentleman, who wifli to
promote the institution—the amount of each fubfeription to
be returned by services in any of the departments he profefles,
agreeable to the rate of charges stated in his hand bill. Such
fubfeription is now open, and the signatures of many refpeft
able gentlemeu already obtained. He therefore injorms his
friends and such Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has not
l he honor of being known, that he (half in a few days take
the liberty of waiting upon them ahd soliciting their support
a°d protc6lion.
N B. Horses are properly prepared for those Ladies and
e Gen lfcmen who wish to be instructed. i
n Nov. 5. • tth&f.
to'be sold,
A LEASE for\Je*en from the 2sth March next, in that
capital and beautiful F called
PROSPEC T-H I L L,
Situated within one quarter of a mile from the Brandywine
Mills, and half a mile from the borough of Wilmington.
HPHE dwelling house is built of llone, twt high,
■* genteely hnifhed, and contains four handsome rooms on
a floor, besides an entry, with capital garrets, and convenient
c ellars It is generally thought to command the mofl a
greeable profpeft of the Delaware, from the source of that I
liver to the Capes* This profpeft ia greatly embellilhed by o
a full view of a v»ft body ot meadow, through which the n
Corifliana and Brandywine creeks are seen winding in beau- a
tiful meanders. Near the house are a Kitchen, a spacious
. flone liable and hayloft, a barn, a carriage house, railic
houfe, <scc. and a well of as pute water as any on the conti
nent. The gardeu contains an acre and quarter of land, a
bounding with fruit, and particularly with peqch trees, of
the very best kiud, brought from Maryland, and in full bear- .
ing. There is, moreover, on the place, a young, apple
orchard begining to bear, and leyeral old trees that produce M
abundantly, besides cherry and other ornamental trees, in 3
great numbers. The farm consists of near sixty acres of land, n
of good ouality, and clear of incumbrances, except taxes, k
twenty of which are now in excellent clover and timothy,
and ten more will be ready tor lowing next spring. A re-
fidence of nearly 8 years has convinced the fubferiber that b
the situation is remarkably healthy. The great pofljoad d
from Philadelphia to the Southward runs within seventy h
yards of the house. In a word, the beauties and conveni- j-,
ence of this situation cannot be enumerated in an advertise- h
ment, and when examined, will probably command the at- p
tention of any perfbn who isdefirous of living at one of the
moil elegant country feats on the continent. The pure hafer
may enter on the premiss next spring, or perhaps, this fall,
if application be immediately made to Doaor NICHOLAS ®
W/iY, in Philadelphia, to Doctor WH ARTON, on the "
premises, or, iu his ablence, to Mr. GEORG£ TItUITT, in tJ
Wilmington. w
A quantity of excellent Hay, Grain in the ground, some
Stock, See, may be had by the purchaser at the time of sale.
Nov. 7. codtf
New Hat and Hosiery Store,
Wholesale, and Retail, .
By WILLIAM M'DOUGALL, J
No. 134, Market Strict, 3 d door from the corner ei
of Fourth, South Side. b
Mens'Black American and Englih Hats, of various qual- P
ities and prices. 11
Ditto Drabs and Green-undtrs.
Ladies' ditto black
And a large assortment of fancy ditto "
Coloured Beavers 0
With a great variety of elagant and falhionable trim- jj
mings' &c. ,
Youth's black and drib coloured ditto.
Children's fancy ditto
All kinds of fllk, silk and cotton, cotton and thread hose
Knit coloured Pantaloons
Ditto Drawers
Ditto Breeches Patterns
Silk Gloves -
Knotted, coloured ditto, cotton-
A quantity of mending cotton, farted colours. u
N. B. The hatsfinilhed in the newest falhoß. si
'7' eodim. si
Samuel Richardet {
13 ESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen a
V Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY f
TAVERN and MERCHANTS OOFFEEHOUSE in the F
city of Philadelphia; lj
1 The Subscription Room will be furnilhed with all the a
1 daily papers publilhed in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos- F
ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com- 1?
mercial cities of Europe—They will be regularly filed I
, and none permitted to be taken away on any account. S
: Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety t
1 of French Liquors; together with the usual refrelhments, T
• will at all times be procured at the bar.
r Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with r
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the moll x:
approved Malt Liquors from London and other breweries, f
, The Lardar will befupplied with the prime and earliest t
, produ&ions of the Season.
Large and small Parties, or single Gentlemen, may be 1
r accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
1 hours moil convenient to themselves—a cold Collation is
regularly kept for convaniency, the Bill of Fare to be had [
at tha bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifhed, and
the utmost attention paid to cleanliness, and every other
requiute.
0" Samuel Richakdet will be happy to receive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
° L- rg r' with S ratitude for their fcvours, he pledges 1
, himfeit that nothing on his part fhali be wanting to pre- I
1- serve that patronage wtth which he has been so diftineuifli- t
r ingly lionored.
Philadelphia, April ig. mw f !
Any Person
Who is well acquainted with the River \
MISSISIPPI,
And will give Dirciflions for failing into the fame,
tkat can be depended on, (hall be generously reward
ed tor his information, provided he will leave the
djrca ,o " ( w'th Mr. John Fenno, primer, Philadelphia,
or Edmund M. Blunt, Newburypori
5. r " 14vfJ1B
t
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL will open his school ob Mon
day the 31ft inft. at ten o'clock in the morning, at hie
Elegant hew Ball Rooms,
m In Fourth, between Chefnut and Walnut Streets.
id Hours of tuition for young ladies, from 10 ta 1 o'cloek
>•> on Mondays, Wednesday, and Friday mornings; and for
as young gentlemen -from 6 -to 9 o'clock en the evenings o
e " the fame days.
In addition to a number of new cotillions, he means to
" e introduce a variety of Scotch Reels.
1C Note. The firft pra&ifing ball to be on Tuesday e
s vening, the firft of November, and to be continued every
j>' Tuesday, during the feafoii.
For terms, &c, enquire at his house, N0.13 4, Market
,j street.
„ OA. 17. tthf
IS To be Sold,
The Time of a smart, a&ive Negro Lad,
ij Who has Eleven years to fcrve.
4 Enquire at No. 58, Sooth Front street.
OAober 18. §
1- " "
'I Brokers Office, and
1. COMMISSION STORE.
0 N». 63 South Third ilreet, opposite the national new Sank.
" Q AMUEL M FRAUNCES and JOHN VAN REED,
u O have entered into co-partner A ip, under the firm of
0 FR AUNCES & VAN REED, in the business of Brokers,
Conveyancers and Commiflion merchants. They buy and
t fell on commiflion every species of stock, notes of band,
[f bills of exchange, houses and lands, &c.
)t Money procured on deposits, Sec. See. all kinds of
e writiags in the conveyancing line, done with neatnefsand
rt dispatch; accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the
most correal manner. Constant attendance will be given.
1 They solicit a fliare of the public favor ; they are deter
mined to endeavour to deserve it.
N. B. The utmoll secrecy observed.
S AMUEL M.FRAUNCES, ■
JOHN VAN REED.
I Philad. iuguft »7, 1796. m&wtf
Sheridan's Dictionary,
sUE SIXTH EDITION, 1
6 Is this Day Published,
BY W. rOVNLDx MILLS £* SO U,
Corner of Second and Chefnut streets,
In one large 8 to. volume, price 3 dollars.
A COMPLETE DICTIONARY of the ENGLISH -
LANGUAGE, both with regard to found and meaning, c
one raain object of which is to establish a plain and per
manent Standard of Pronunciation. Te which is prefixed,
a Profodial Grammar.
BT THOMAS SHKRIDAR, A. it.
O&ober at.
RAN A WA V, r
Aboat the ift of O&ober lad, from the plantation of 2
Mr.Thomas F. Brooke, (in Prince George's county) to
whom he was hired, a NEGRO MAN, named CjESAR ; -
33 years of age; about 5 feet Bor 9 inches high; well 2
made ;of a yellowilh complexion; a little pockmarkcd: 4
has, when spoken to, rather a down look, and submissive -
tone of voice: the clothes he had before he abfeonded 6
were of plain, such m labouring Negroes usually wear,
but these he may probably exchange for others : he will ii
doubtless endeavour to pass for a freeman, having, as I e
have been informed, alTumed the name of Butler: I have f<
reason to believe that he went to Baltimore, from whence ti
he is said to have gone to some part of the Sufquehannah, ii
probably with a view of getting to Pennsylvania. A n
reward as Thirty Dollars will be given to the person who
may take him and so secure him in some jail that I may c
get him again, if taken in this state, and Fifty dollars if n
taken out of the state, and if brought home or secured in f<
the jail of Prince Gaorge's county *11 rtmfon.lil. «
will be paid by ALEXR. COVINGTON.
Maryland, Frince George's County, ">
and November, 1796. J nth*tAf4w
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 313, HIGH-STREET,
GEORGE DAVIS announces to his profeftional friends,
and the Gentlemen of the Law generally thro* th<
Union, that his late importation of BOOKS is now arrang
ed, and ready for Sale, from a (ingle volume to an entire li
brary, without any advance upon his former exceeding lew
. prices, which for (everal years past have in so diftinguifaed a
manner recommended them to notice*
Printed Catalogues combining the most extensive collec
tion cf the latest Englifti and Irifti Editions ever imported
into this country, are published, and will be delivered gratis
on application.
Orders addressed to G. D. in writing from any 4iftance
{halPbe pun&ually attended to*
A number of TRUNKS for Sale. d
ALSO, TO BE LST, 1)
A convenient LOFT, nearMa ket Street Wharf. v
Nov. 8. ' tu&f3»i c
Treasury Department, .J-
September 28, 1796.
NOTICE is hereby given, that proposals will be re- f
ceived at the office of the Secretary of the Treasury
until the expiration of the firft day of March next en
suing, for the supply of all rations which may he required
for the use of the United States, from the firft day of
June, 1797, to the thirty-firft day of May, 1798, both
days inclusive, at the places and within the diflricts here
-1 after mentioned, viz. At Ofwego; at Niagara ; at
PieCque lfle; at Sanduflty Lake, and on Sandufty r
: River; at Detroit; at Michilimackinac; at Fprt-Frank- a
lin; at Pittfburgb ; at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hamilton; ''
: at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-Jefferfon ; at Grenville; at
- Picque Town and Loramies Store ; at Fort Adams; at
- Fort Wayue; at Fort Defiance ; at any place below Fort
1 Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Erie; at Fort
Steuben ; at FortMafiac ; at any plate from Fort Maffac
r to the south boundary of the United States on the river
, Miflifippi; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiatanon.
If supplies lb all be required for any posts or places not
1 mentioned in this notice, all such supplies ffiall be fur
t niihed at prices proportioned to thole to be paid at the
. posts before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed on
t between the United States and the Contraflow
The rations to be supplied are to consist of the sol
: lowing articles, viz.
t One pound two ounces of bread or flour.
s One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounces of
i pork or bacon.
Half a gill ef rum, brandy or whiskey. q
1 One quart and half a pint of falt."\ t
r Two quarts ef Vinegar, ( ...
Two pounds of Soap, £P" hundred rations j
i One pound of Candles, j ti
t Ihe rations are to be furnifhed in such quantities, as that
s there lhall at all times during the said term, be fufficient d
- for the confumptionofthe troops at Michilimackinac, De- '
.- troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, fer the term of fix months in
advance, and at each of the other posts, for the term of
at lead three months in advance, in good and wholesome
provifions.ifthefame stall be required. It is to be un
derstood, that the ContraAor is to be at the exjtcnce and
rifle of iffuirgthe supplies to the troope ateach poll, and
r that all losses sustained by the depredations of an enemy, or
by means of the troops of the United States, (hall be paid
. f ° r " P rlce of tte articlts captured or destroyed, on
•» the dcpoutioßs of two or more persons of creditable cha- '
" rafters, and the certificate of a commiffioncd officer, as
' "rtaming the circumstances of the loss, and the amount '
ot ">* atucks for which compensation ft all be claimed
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
Wm. Holdernesse, No. 76,
HIGH-STREET,
Has received by the late fcrrivals, >
, gi > A !V*ll Seleded Assortment of
ek Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
or o Haberdashery Goods,
Which he will fell, wholefile and retail, an the very
to lowest terms ;
Amongjl which art
e . Some elegant 4-4 and 7-8 Chintzes and Cottons new
ry patterns ' "
Ditto Furniture ditto
t- Ditto Dimity
Tamboured, Book, and Jaconet Muffins
Ditto in Gold and Silver
— Ditto Neckcloths, vjry fine
Mantuas of the firlt quality
, Silk and Cotton Holiery
Ij Umbrella, of the firft quality, assorted
lrifli Linens, very fine, and Table Linens
Marseilles and Cotton Counterpanes
Rose Blankets aiTorted—&c. &c.
OcSober 16.
Loft Last Evening,
At Ricketts's Amphitheatre, (supposed to be taken by
*• some villain out of a gentleman's pocket)
A red Morocco-Leather POCKET-BOOK,
s Containing about 185 dollars in banknotes; three notes
J of hand of Rofs and Simfon, No. 304, 305 and ?06, da
d ted 12th last August, payable 60 dafs after d«te, to the
» order of Paul Siemen, together for 5150 dollars; an ordur
f of Mrs. Ann Vacpherfon, from Paul Siemen, on Lich
"d lin Mac Neal, Esq. at Port-au-Printfe, for 100 dollars; be
,e fides several letters and papers of no use but to the proprie
tor. The notes of hand and order are without enHorfe
_• mem. EIGHTY DOLLARS REWARD is offered to
any person who will difcOuef- and secure the thief, and
FORTY DOLLARS for only bringing the above menti
oned notes and papers at No. 119, corner of Front and
Mulberry streets. d Ocft. 11.
- SALT PETRE.
A large quantity of Double-Refined Salt Pttre for
sale at No. zj, South Third-street.
November 5.
Paterfon Lottery.
FOR raising fix thousand fix hundred and fiity-feVcn
dollars andfifty cents, by a dedudion of fifteen per
, ccnt from the prizes, and not two blanks to a prize, viz
I Prize of 5000 dollars is dollars 5000
, 1 1000 1 000
1 5 00 JO9
S 100 loco
10 100 1000
99 so 4950
xo ° 1 S 5000
: aoo ° ... 10 to,o^o
S Last drawn numbers of 1000 dollars each, jooo
1 »33* Prizes. 44 4J
: 4018 Blanks. 0
I 6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44,450
By order of the Dire&ors of the Society for establish-
I ing Ufeful Manufa<ftures, the fuperintendauts of the Pat
erfon Lottery have requested the Managers to offer the
: foregoing Soheme to (he public, and have directed them
to refund the money to thole persons who have purchased
, in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
n this Lottery.
The lottery has actually commenced drawing, and will
continue until finilhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
may be seen at the office ot William Blackburn, N«. 64
feuth Second street, who will giveinformation where tick
► - at. may he
Dated this 17th day of June, 1796.
J. N- GUMMING, •)
JACOB R. HARDENBERG, £ Managers.
JONATHAN RHEA, ) J
STATE OF THE WHEEL.
\ I Prize of 5000 - 5900
I 1000 ... I GOO
I 509 - - - 500 .1
J aco - i#co
so 100 - - jooa
90 50 4500
165 t S ... . A n S
The five last drawn tickets, ie>oo 5000
Being all the valuable prizes, besides a full propor
tion of the 10 dollars.
As the Lottery is considerably more than one third
drawn, the value of the undrawn tickets is great
ly increased, and it i 3 worth the notice of tkofe
who hold tickets in th»old scheme, that they can ex
change their tickets for those, in the above, if they ap
ly soon, and at a moderate advance considering the
now real value of an undrawn ticket.
The tickets being nearly all fold, the drawing- 'a
• future will be oftener, and the Lottery -soon finilhed.
November 12. • rnws
Wafhmgton Canal Lottery,
N°. J.~
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorised
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thoufacd,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Walhington, from th Po;
tomac to the Eastern Branch Haruour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. T. ,
Viz .1 Prize of ao,ooo dollars, ao,ooo
I ditto 10,000 10,000
TiCS"} ~
6 ditto X,ooo 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,c00
ao ditto 100 1,000
55 ditto 50 1,759
5750 ditto II 69,008
To be raised for th< Canal,
5850 Prizes, 175,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
g? The Commissioners have taken the Securities fe
quired by the aforefaid ail for the panitual payment of
the prizes.
The drawing ef this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon as thp Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after the
t drawing is finilhed, lhall be considered as relinquiflied rjr „ ul
. the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly*
, (Signed J NOTLEY YOUNG,
f DANIEL CARROLL, o/D
---: LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
I W m . M. DtJNCANSON,
1 THOMAS LAW,
r JAMES BARRY.
i City of WaQiii>glo«i, Feb. 11. §
; PRINTED BY JOHN FEN N6, j
—No. 119 —
CH ESN WT-STREET.
£Pricc Fight Dollars per Anmim\~j