ofthe QltttttD States, & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 133 3. ]
For Boston,
The brig NEPT UN E,
James Town, Master,
Lying at Wikocks's wharf, wilt fall
v ,: thall convenient ffed —For freight or passage apply to
master on boaTd, or No. 76, North Front Street.
Dec. 13.
For Sale by Public Auction,
/t the Cefftc-Eouft, on - Saturday the I -Jth injl. at 6
o'clock, in the evening.
The SNOW WILLs AM,
p. SAMUEL RINKER, Master.
JL Lying at Bethell *nd Coopers
wharf—burthen one hitndred and
"eighty tons', or thereabouts, is sup
• prtf.* 11n carry 3000 barrel* : She is a strong good
vt.Trl, and may be sent to sea at t small expence,
Ji-.ving been completely fitted last voyage. Inven
tnrv maybe Caen, by applying to Captain Rinkt-t
fio board, or at the counting house of the fubferi-
V>f rS. FOOTMAN & Co. Auctioneers.
T 7. . -
For Sale,
j-—=3, The Sty ADELAIDE,
Of New York.
1 I.y: at the fuhfcriber't wharf—bur
ft 'h™ to" 5 ! A l ' >' " ft" 01 wc "
• veffrl, was built by the dry for a House
Ni w York, under the mfpeftion of a nerfou concerned
in her— has beer only one voy )ge to London and Charles
ton and fails fader than any vessel out of the pou of New-
York. —Apply to
WILLIAM BELL.
Who has received by the said ship from Charlcfton —
to Tinces frsih Rice, and a few ciiks of Ground Nuts.
Dec. 6. $ xt *
For Sligo and Kiliibegs,
The American. Ship Naticy,
Cuthbcrt Kig»s, mailer.
jhtcwK? Will fail with all convenient (peed. For
freight or passage apply to
William Bell ;
Who ha.* for fa!e,
4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well aflorfi-d
. 3 Bales Irifc Flannels, and 2 boJtcs Linens
45 Pipes Brandy
Madeira Wine; Indigo. Rnffia Matti.
A'.fo,
A few barrels Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
OATMEAL, Ac.
November ii, 1796, mwftf
FOR SALE,
Jktfe-SpNj"" 7he ship mart,
SAMUFL PARKER, Master,
tons burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MARY « not fold in a few days, lhe will take
freight for Hamburg. Ap* t >ly as above.
Prober 31. d
For Charter,
The Ship JO HN BUI.KELT,
• Srorr.LEY, Master. :
An excellent livc-cak and 6ed*r bailt
of about 3000 barrels burthen. —Ap-
P y J e Jf e & Robert K aln.
Noy. " _ i_
For Sale, or Charter,
gSL-l, The Ship DIANA,
Samuh. Pile, Master,'
Burthen 105 49-95 register, built in
Philadelphia in. the year 1792, of live oak
and red cedar, and was fceathed 13 momhs ago, (he
las just had a compleat out-fit, and may be feat to lea
at a very trifling expence.
For terms apply t-o
Philip Nicklin & Co./
Who have for sale on'tsird said wjfcl,
eaiks of fine yellow paint.
e boxes and II bundles of writing flitei.
I box ink stands and note presses.
i.j balet of fail canvass.
And on hand,
Imperial
Hyson, and, > TEAS.
Souchong J
40,000 pieces Nank#en« of the 6rlt quality.
19 tubs QuieVfihrer.
1 chefl. Bandanno handkerchiefs.
A few cherts Manchester goodswell snorted in Cor
duroys. thirkfets, Ginghams, Muil'mef, DimKW!., &c.
,1 boxes black sewing silk.
. 180 crates Q»ieen# ware well afTorfced*
rr> tons sheet lead.
Jv'aiii aflbrted, Bat and flsarp points.
London Particular, 0 Madeira Wine in pipes
Lcnr!on Market, > an( j hogfhrads.
New-York Market, J »
»o pi[>»s and io hoglheads Tenerifw wine*
1 tiorces Snake Root.
HO lor- Mahogany. rf
Nov 7.
For Sale,
m By Jehu Hollingfworth, & Co.
• »5 hhd». Weft-India Rum, 3d a«d 4th proof,
5 Barrels bed Indigo, and,
X few thousand bushel. of Turk's Island fait.
oa. 17.
Bank of North America.
• THF STOCKHOLDERS are hereby notified that an
elellion for twelve Direaors lor the ensuing year will ke
held at the Bank on Monday tie 9th of January at ten
°' d ° tk ' RICHARD WELLS, Cafcier.
, 6. ' 1 W
Jult Arrived,
In the (hip Difoateh. Captain Morton, from Havre
de-Grace, and for sale by
• Isaac Snowden, jun. No. 141,
SOUTH SECOND STREET,
An invoice of Gloves of various kinds, Men's
White Silk Hose, Black and White Laces, and a few
pieces of Biack Silk.
Decembers. S**'
FRJDAT EVENING, DECEMBER 16, 1796.
Elegant Brufiels & Turkey Carpeting,
For sale by George Dobfon, No. 15, South Third-ftrcet.
December 15. <^tf
Women's Cloaks.
GEORGE DOB SON,
No. 25, South Third^ftreet,
Has just reeeived, per Eagle, Capt. Fofdickj vial.on
don, an alTortment of
Scarlet *
f Cloaks trimmed with lur and
Purple and t ermine.
Pearl )
December 15.
Bank of PtTinfylvnnia, Iyb Dec. 179^*
The Stockholders are requested to meqt
At the Bank on Thursday, the twenty-ninth icftant, at
io o'clock iu the morning.
By order of the Board,
ROBERT RALSTON, Ca(hiy, N
$t*9th Pre tern.
A number of the Creditors of the late
House of Blair M'Clenachan and P. Moore, and of B.
M'Clenachan, wiping to have the opinion of the Credi
tors generally on the meafwres necessary to be pursued
under present circumstances propose, that a meeting shall
behdd on Saturday next, at ia o'clock, at the City Ta
| vern, and hope for the pttendanceof all conc#rned.
Wednesday, 14th December, 1796- d^a
for Sale,
By the Subfcribers—ln PENN-STREET,
65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
Imported by the Eagle.
WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
Nov. 30 w&f
Imported in the late srrh'tli from Europe and the
H r ejl* Indies,
Holland Gin, in pipes
'Choice St. Croix Sugar and Hum
Martinique Molaflts, in hogflieads
Choice old Lisbon Wine, in pipes and quarter-casks
London Particular flc London Market Madeira Wine,
in pipes, half-pipes and quarter-calks
Malmsey Madeira Win«, in pipes and quarter-calks
Tenerine Wine, in pipes
Russia & Flernilh Sheeting and Ravens Duek, in cases
Window Glass, 3 by 10, in boxes
Coffee Mills and Straw Knives, in calks
Mill Saws and Crofe-cut Saws, in boxes
y///o, on hand,
A few chests of Bohea Tea ; Jcfuits Bark ; Afiafcs
tida and Tapioca; and a few bales of ColTaes,
Baftaß, Gorrahs, Bandanna and Mufiin Handker-r
chiefs, a complete aflbrtTnent of 5-4 and 6-4
Boulting Cloths.
For Sale by
Pragers Ess Co.
Odlober 10 dawm&th2m
WILLIAM SHEAFF,
No. 168, HIGH-STREET.
Has roil Sale, Wholesale and RetaA,
MADEIRA WINE, of Jft quality,
Old Sherry, Lisbon, aad Port Wines,
Cognßc Brandy,
Jamaica Spirits,
Wiac bitters and
Claret in cases.
Also fcr sale,
A few barrels of excellent Beef.
December 7. dx
For Sale,
By J. WARDER, PARKER & Co.
An Invoice of Cordage,
Confiding of different sizes, from \2 inch cables down
to rope of t inches, of different lengths: Imported in
the fliip $wist, from Hull, and entitled to drawback.
Sept. *7. dtf
Fashionable Waistcoating.
GEORGE DOBSON, No. 25,
gOUTH THIRD-STREET,
Has received ptr the Diana, from London,
Clouded and striped Spinifh Svranfdown
Clcndfd Ermin?.t« and Moleikins
Striped do. and do.
Figured Manillas
Scarlet figured Erminets
Printed Florinetls
Do- CafEnets and CasHmeres
Superfine printed Quilting!, newest patterns
Also, per different arrivals,
A large and general aflortment of Dry
Goods,
Suitable to the present and approaching feaforu
Novemb«r 5. dtf
Cheap French China.
THE fubferibers finding it impofliMe to supply their
store with any more China from, France, the prices
Being too immoderate in the manufafleries, give no
tice that they will fell at prime cost the remaining
fleck oa hand, eos'fifling of
Deflert Setts,
Tea-Table Setti
Separate Cup« and Saucer*
Groupes and Figure!
Alahafter Vases
Looking GlalTcs, in jrilt frames,
Besides India J.ipan'd Toilet Deflcs, Chairs, Tablet
nad Quadrille Boxe*. PASQUIER & Co.
N». 91, South Second-ftre.t.
December sth. tts
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 313, HIGH-STREET.
GEORGE DAVIS annouirers to his profeflional friends,
and the Gentlemen of the Law, generally, through the
Union, ttyat his late importation of BOOKS is now arrang
ed, and nad.y for Sale, from a single volume to an entire li
brary, without any tdvance upon his former exceeding low
prices, which forfevera! years past have in so diftiaguilhed a
manner recommended ihem io notice.
Printed Catalogues combining the mo ft exteafive
tion cf the latest English an 4 Irish Editioas ever imported
into this country, are published, and will be delivered grati*
or application.
Orders addrcfifed to G. D« in writing from any distance
(hallbe pun&ually attended to.
A number of TRUCKS foe Sale.
ALSp, TO BE LET,
A convenient LOFT, near Market Street Wharf.
ov.B. t*scf3»
On Wednesday, the 28th inft.
At 6 o'clock in the evening avill be fold tit Public-Ven- '
due, (if not before difyofed- of at private sale) at
the Crtj-Tavern,
AH that capital mansion-house, stables, out-houfes, &c.
and three contiguous trads ef land situate on the Wefl-fide
of Schuylkill in the township of Blockley and county of
Philadelphia, generally known by the name of Lanfdown, *
contaiuing 199 acres i©i perches more or left and a mefTu- •
a%c plantation and tra&of land in Blockley tcwnlhip a- <
loreiaid adjoining Lanfdown, containing 64 acres one 1
pcrch. 1
■The premise* are so vrell kn«wn as to need tio particular
defeription. Few feats in America can cohipare with ]
Lanfdown for convenience and elegance ; it commands a <
variety of rich beautiful profpedt* and is remarkably heal- <
thy. Terms o»f sale will be made known by ]
PHILIP NICKLIN, Attornies ifi t
AND V fail to
ROBERT E. GRIFFITH, i James Grcenlear.
Dec. 12. §ta>.
FOR SALE,
At Whitefides' Tea Ware-House, '
No. 99, North $4Cond Street. <
Imperial ■> THyfon Skin. \
Hyson, V Fresh Teas, < Souchong, -
Young Hyson, j C Bohea
"Dec. 0. jr |
New-England Rum, Salmon, Beef, '
Chocolate, Rice, Boston mould and dipt Candles, a
few quarter-casks of Sfherry Wine, aud a few barrels of -
Cyder—for sale by
Exekiet Hall,
No. 41, North Water-street.
December 14th, 1796.
Just Landing,
At South freet <u>harf, from on loard tM [hip Sedg-
Uy, Cnptnin Hodge, from St. Peterjburg,
The following Goods:
Raffia Sail D*ck, firft quality.
Do. Sheeting dp.
Do. Eiapcr.
Do. Huckaback.
Do. Craft.
Do. Mould Candles, 4, 5 and 6, to the, lb. of the
EngKfh size.
Do. White Candle Tallow.
Do* White Sowp in small boxes.
Do. Grfiage of fine yarn.
Ravens Duck.
illnghrfs, lit and jsnd fort.
Jiorl'c Hair uncurled.
t iiffu Bar Iron.
10. Hoop Iroa.
Do. Nail B.od^
10 Tors Oakuj|(Knd Junk.
St. Cl»an Hemp.
For Sale by
Phi'ipsj Cramond, & Co.
OAoberia. §
Wm. HoLDERNi-SSE, No. 76,
HIGH-STREET,
Has received by the late arrirals,
A Well Seieaed /Is sor f msnt of
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
Haberdashery Good'',
Which he will fell, wholefalc and rstail, on the very
low eft terms ;
Amiongjl which are
Some elegant 4-4 and 7-8 Chintzes and CottoßS, new
patterns
D;tto .Furniture ditto
Ditto Dimity
Tambuurcd, Book, and Jaconet Muslins
Ditto in Gold and Silver
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine
Mantuas of the firft quality
Silk and Cotton Ho fiery
Umbrellas of the firft quality, afTorted
lrilh Linens, very fine, and Table Linens
Marseilles and Cotton Counterpanes
Rose Blankets afforted—&c. See.
O&obsr 26. d
RAISINS.
A few Cask« and Bcxes of Excellent Fresh RAISINS)
jult rrcc< v ed, and for sale by
Jofepb Anthony & Co.
Alfoaftew 11 i-2 inch CABLE, no fathoms long.
December ?. jtf
Befl Boston & Nova-Scotia Mackarel,
Excellent Halifax Salmun in bbla.
47 bblii. prime Coffee,
Bell Boston Beef,
Codfifh in licit.
Spermaceti Candles,
Spermaceti, and 1 r\ I J
Northern J _
Mould aiid dipt, tallow candles, of a fupeiior
quality.
A few boxes excellent brown soap,
6 Bale, of Corks.
4® Pipes excellent Lilbon Wiire.
A few sacks of Feathers.
A few Bales India Muslins.
FOR SALE BT
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
Oflobcr 31. d
TO BE SOLD,
A PLANTATION, in the town of Woodbury, conn*
ty of Gloucester, and slate of New-Jcrfey, contain
ing about one hundred and fifty a«rep ; a (uitable propor
tion of which is woodland and improved <%aadow. A
great part of the arable land is in a high state of Cultiva
tion, and very natural to the produ&ion of Red Clover.
On said plantation there is a genteel two-story bfidk houfcj
with four rooms on a floor, and a good dry cellar under
the whole; together with a barn, corn-cribs and carriage*
house The garden is large, and contains a good collec
tion of the belt kinds of grafted and inoculated fruit trocs {
the orchard consists of about three hundred grafted app'e
trees. Any person inclined to purchase said preuifes, may
be informed of the terms by applying to
ANDREW HUNTER.
Judy 19 F
WANTED,
As Cook, in a private family,
A YOUNG WOMAN who can produce good re
commendations of an unexceptionable character* En
quire of the Printer.
November 17. Jtf
Mrs. G rattan
RefpejSfully informs the Ladies and Gentlemen of the
City, that the firft
LADIES' CONCERT
Will be on Tuesday next, at the AlTembly-Rooiti.
» Act /.
Overture, Piebi■
Song, Mrs. Gpttan, " Angels ever bright," Handel,
Concerto Piano-Fort*, Mrs. Grattan, Krumfballz.
Italian Ballad, Harp, Mil. Grattan, Miliet,
Miscellaneous Quartette.
Act 11.
Harp Lesson, Mr«. <srattan, Cardnt.
Song, " AK fe perdo," Mri. Grattan, Sacrhini.
Sonato Piano-Terte, Mr. Reinagle, Ple/el,
Priinrofe, ballad, Mrs. Grattan, Webbe.
Overture, Abel,
To begia precisely at y o'clock.
Mra. Grattan begs leave ta inform the Ladies and
Gentlemen, that the fubfeription-book i« at herboufe
No j,, North Sixth-llreet, for the reception of those
names who wi(h t. honor her with their command*.
A fuhfeription for eight nights 16 dollars, including *
Gentleman and Lady's ticket, both tiansftrrable—
Half fubferiptions 8 dollars, including one ticket-
Single ticket x dollars.
Mrs. Grattan takes the liberty of requeuing the
fubferibera to fend for their tickets any day after
Thurftlay, the 15th of December, (tNo. 39/ North
Shth-ftreet. ,
December ry.
Hibernian Socicty.
A flatad meeting of the Hibernian Sncicty, wIM be held
at Mr. M'Shane's Tavern, Fhird-ftreet, on Saturday the
17th inft. at 7 o'clock in the evening.
Supper will be on the table at half after nine.
Dec, n. MjpHEW CAREY, flee'ry.
Imported from London '& Liverpool,
EARTHEN WARE, in crates and hogfheadt, well
aQorted
~r! ne Battles in hampers
? ndow Glass of all fi7el
' Two cases ©f stationary
One chell of yellow Jesuits Bark
Two cases of Roll Arnotta
A small ronfignment of Rose Blankets, Flanmls,
Baizes, Broad-cloths, Coatings, Plains &c.
Paints of various colors.
Baiket fait 1r hogsheads.
AlJi en hand,
Madeira wine, very eld, ia pipes, -hsglhcads <o4
quarter calks
Holland gin in pipes, flrfi quality
Anchors of different Gaes
A few trunks of ladies French flloes afiorted
Silk nan keen, &c.
Like wife an afwrtment of Dutch goods, Confining of
Ofnaberj'S, ticklenbergs, (tripes, checks,
Morlaix linen, platillas, ra»eraduck, britannias, &ci
And for sale by the package only by
Thomas fsf John Kctland.
Walout-ftreet Wharf.
Nov. is. «otf
MR. FENNELL
WtfjHftfidJy submits to tbi public ■patronage bis in*
tention of delivering, during the ensuing winter >
A CoußSt OF
Readings and Recitations,
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining ;
Consisting chiefly of detached pieces, fele&ed front
the moll admired authors, in prose and verfe: —Ar*
ranged in such a manner as to exhibit a ftfiking display
of the human pzffions, and the gradual influence o(
vices oirthe mind contrasted with that of their oppo
site virtues, in affedUng the happiness of man and tho
welfare of nations. The readings will be occalionally
interspersed with observations on the most celebrated
authors,
And the ART of SPEAKING.
The whole intended as a eombiued system of moraf»
critical, historical, and oratorical inftru&ion, calcula
ted to form the patriot and the man, rod lay a foun
dation for the science of moral and political govern*
ment.
The coorfe will consist of thirty readings.
Kach reading will be delivered in the morning and
evening of the fame day.
The days of reading will be Tuesdays & Thursdays.
The morning readings will commence at 10 o'clock,
and the evening at 7.
None but Aibfcriberi will be admitted to the morn*
ing readings.
The evening readings wilt be public, to which alfd
fubferiptions will be received.
Subscription to the mornings 8 dollars.
Subscription to the evening readings 10 dollars.
Occasional admiflion tickets to the evening readings
half a dollar.
Subscriptions are received by Mr. Zachariah Poul
fon, jun. at the Library, to whom the Ladies and
Gentlemen who nwy be inclined to honor the underta.
king with theirpatronage, are refpe&fully requested to
fend their names.
Dec. 1%, d6t>
For Sale,
A capital stand for bufinefs—rhat well known tavern,
tha Ewe and Lambs, North Front Street, No. 333, in th<J
Northern Liberties; a brick house containing nine fire
places, and ten rooms well finilhed ; good stables and
chair-house, with a frame-houfe on Water street ; the
building stands on four lots, five nteen feet front each, ma
king a frortt on front-ftreet, thirty-four feet, and nearly
the fame on Water-street, and is one hundred and fottv
. ! feat deep from Qreet to flreet, fubje& to £8. 10s. each
, j lot per annum, ground rent, this property is near the hay*
1 scales, and public ducks, easy communication with the
Delaware waters and advantageotffly situated for business
. of various kinds.
The above premises are now rented until December
next at £.17$ per of tne Printer.
! Dee. iz. §iwaaw6w.
For Sale,
; By George Defchamps, No. 91,
r NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels
and half barrels
Ditto Herring and Mackarel. _
Smoaked Ilcrring in barrels and kegs
Ditto Salmon, by the doren or Angle one
Dry Codfifh, from one to fifty kentals
. Fine and cosrfe Salt
- Nova-Scotia and French Plaster of Paris, in the fton«
and ground, for manure and flucco-work
December i. ft/
[Volume X.. Nsiv Theatre.
WIGNELL and REINAGLE,
solicitous to vary and iriiprove the Entertain
i ments of the New Theatre, and evince' their grati
t for the patrosage they hove received, refpe&fully in
iorm the Public, that they have, in addition to their pre
sent Establishment, engaged a FRENCH COMPANY of
COMEDIANS, who wilt make tlicir firft appearence in
this City, to-morrow evening, int two favorite Musical
Piece*—the particular* will be advertised in the Bills for
the day—previous to which will be performed the oomeay
of NiXT DOOR NEIGHBOURS. Dec. 16
On FRIDAY EVENING, December 16,
IVill be pnfrntldy
A COMEDY', in four ads, called
The Child of Nature.
■W xm the French Of Madam Genlis, by the author of
E-vrry ttte has hij Fault.
Marquis as Almania, Mr. IVi^nefl.
Count Valantia, iUrrton.
Duke Murcia, Mr. Warren.
■ "Seville, Mr. IVarr/11.
Grenada, Mr. Worrell, jun.
'ft Peasant, Mr. Cooper,
2d Peasant, Mr. Mitchell.
Margbionefs Merida, Mrs. Morris■
Amarithis, Mrs. Merry.
End of the Comedy, a new Pantomime Ballet Dance,
(composed by mr. Byrne) called
Dermot and Kathleen,
Taien fom the favorite opera of the Poor Soldier, and
performed <witb universal appluuje* upwards of aoo
nights-at Covent-Gar den Theatre.
Patrick, Mr. lVarreil t jun.
Darby, Mr. BliJJett.
Father Luke, Sig. DoSor.
Mother Kathleen, Mr, Fiancis.
Norah, Miss Mtlbsurne.
And the parts of Dermot and Kathleen,
By mr. and mrs. Byrne,
being their second appearance m America.
*i 0 which tfill be added, a FARCE, never performed
here Allied
Animal Magnetism.
Marquis de Lancy, Mr. Moreton.
La Fleur, Mr. Hartuood.
Do<flor, Mr. Francts.
Picard, Mr. Wfionald %
Francois, Mr. Warrell, jun. 1
Jeffery, Mfr. Blijett.
Constance, Mrs. Harvey.
Lifettr, Mrs. Francis.
Bet, One Dollar twenty-five cents. Pit one Dollar.
And Gallery, rtalf a dollar.
gT Tickets to be had at H. & P. Rice's Book-store, !
"No. 50 High-flreet, and at the Office adjoining the
Theatre. •
The Doors of the' Theatre will open at 5, and the
Curtain rife precisely at 6 o'clock.
rir.ir r espubl ica/
O- For the benefit of the fufferers
By the late fire at Savannah.
Tile Citizens of Philadelphia are informed, that
On MOXDAVi the 19th injtant,
•The Elephant will be exhibited,
Aad the whole receipts of the day, together with a
fusi of twenty-five dollars from tire owrter, will be
depofite4 with the Mayor, to relieve the fuffering
Citizen? of' Savannah. The owner wilf attend at the
place himfelf.
Admittance one quarter of a dollar.
Generosity is requefled.
Decern her t * ' 3
L O S T,
On Wednesday afternoon, somewhere in Market-"
street,
A Red Morocco POCKET-BOOK,
Containing, amongst other papers, a drift of M. M.
Hayes on Joseph Anthony Co. at twenty days, for
,400 dollars. Whoever has found the fame, and wiH
deliver it at No. 5, Chefnut-ftreet, /hall receive FIVE
DOLLARS reward.
December 16 2
FOR SALE,
Seven elegant Scites for buildings,
Opposite the vState-Houfc Garden and Congress-
Hall; each Lot being 75 f«et front on Sixth-street,
and no feet deep to a 14 feet Court, agreeable to a
flan which may be seen at the CofFee-Houfe or at the ;
office of Abraham Shoemaker, No. 124, So. Fourth
ftreet, where the terms ynll be made known.
-.December 16 *eo3
Dancing.
MR. FRANCIS of the New-Theatre, in eonjun&lon
uith Mr. BYRN, la*e BallcMnafter, and principal dan
cer of Covant-Garden Theatre, London, now of the
New Theatre in this cjty, opened their Acadimy at Mr.
Oelleti Hot#, on Tuesday. December 13, wjiere th«y
propose to teach, in the mod new and approved methods,
7>ancing in its various uleful and ornamental branches.
Mr. Byrn's recent attention to the dance* of London
and Piris will enftl>!e (lim to complete this branch of
«*>.cat : on in hii scholars in the moll finished style.
Favorite Scotch reels will also engage their particular
attention.
The days of teaching for their young pupils areThurf
days and Saturdays, from three o'clock in the afternoon,
till fix—urd oO Tueldays A Thtirfdays, from fix till nine,
frr l iiofs of a more advanced age.
In-c.trtHsr particulars enquire of MelTrs. Francis
2nd by 111, No. 70, north Ei^htii-ftrelt.
Private tuition as usual.
Philrdelphia, December 16, ©aw
A Genteel ftoufe.
FOR SALE, anew, convenient, three-story HOUSE,
in Fifth, rear Sfrwce-ftreet. Pofllffion may he
hnd m two moffths, wht-n it will be finiflicd in a neat
rrtpdern style. Fc. terms aj-piy at No. 109, Spruce-
PJeet, or 109, So. Water-ftrcet.
December 8.
(O A Stated Meeting of
i'he American Philosophical Society,
V/ILL be held at their Hats next Friday evening at
f) o'c ock ; when the annual Magellanic Premium is to be
awarded.
The Society arc also deflred to meet at their Hall, © n
Saturday*next at ti -o clock, in the forenoon, -to proceed
from thence to zhe Presbyterian Church, in High-ftrect ,
T.htre an eulog;um to the memory of their lute President'
I)h. David Ritteniovik, will he pronounced before
vhem at la o'clock. Dcc 14.
Old London particular Madeira Wine,
1 n-linjr from on loard the birque Eagle, Capt. Bates
jsd lor sale by ROBERT JfKHRKWS,
No. 86, South Wharves.
Movember 29. eodtf
From the (New-Tork) Minerva.
The Answer.
THE French republic have, at various times
during the present war, complained of certain prin
ciple! and decifiotw of the American government,
as being relations of its neutrality, or infaflions
of the treaty made with France in the year 1778.
These complaints were ptincip.'ly made in the
year 1793, ant ' explanations, which, till now, were
deemed fatisfaflory, were made by Mr. Jefferfon's
correspondence, in Aaguil of that year. They
are now not only renewed with great exaggeration,
but the French government have diretled, that it
(hould be done in the tone of reproach, injlead of the
language of friendjbip The apparent intention of
this menacing tone at this particular time, is, to in
Silence timid minds to vote agreeably to their wifties
in the election of President ar.d Vice-Picfident, and
probably with this view, the memorial was publish
ed in«the newspapers. This is certainly a praQice
that mull not f>e permitted. If one foreign minister
is permitted to publish what he pleases to the peo
pie, in the name of his government, every other
foreign minister mud be endowed with the fame
right. What then will be our fltuation on the e
le£lio» of a President and Vice President, when the
government is insulted, the persons who administer
it traduced, and tbeele&ors menaced by public ad
drelTej from these intriguing agents ? Pnjand, that
was onae a refpeftable and powerful nation, but is
now a nation no longer, is a melancholy example
of the danger of foreign influence-in the cletflion of
3 chief magistrate. Eleven millions of people have
101 l their independence from that < iufe alone.
What would hive been the conduct of the Frcach
Directory, if the American Minister had publilwd an
elaborate, and inflammatory address to to the people of
France aj»ainft the government, reprobating the con
duit of those in power, and extolling that of the party
opposed to them they would have done as the Par
liament of England did in 1717, when the Emperor's
resident presented an insolent memorial to the km;, and
publilhed it next day in the newspapers. "All parties
concurred in exprefling the highest indignation and re
fentme*t at the affront offered to the government by
the memorial deliveied hy Monsieur Palm, and more
particularly at this audacious manner of appealing
from the government to the people under the pretext
of applying for reparation and redress of supposed inju
ries/' In consequence of an address from both hosfes
Monsieur Palm was ordered to quit England immedi
ately. And is it not ntcefiary that we should adopt
some remedy adequate to this evil, to avoid these seri
ous confequenccs which may otherwifc be apprehended
from it ?
The condnfl of tlje American government to
preserve its neutrality, has been repeatedly juflified
by arguments drawn from thelawsof nations; and
in the application of its piinciplet, they have gone
as fir, in every instance, and in one particular in
stance, farther, in favour of France, than the (tiitt
rule of neutrality would juftify. It would, there
fore, aitfwer no valuable purpose, to (late the fame
principles, and deduce the fame confequencfi, in or
der to juftify ouifelveson the fame ground that we
have already done 1 but as the reproaches of tjie
French republic are founded on an idea, that our
donflrufh'on and application of the law of nations,
is erroueous, partial and inimical; it maybe worth
while to examine, whether we cannot juftify our
selves by the example of the French nation itfelf.
I presume a better rule of jutlificatiori againfl any
c ' lar g e t cannot be required, than the conduct of
those who have made it,, in like cases-
I propose, therefore, to compare the deeifions of
the American government, in the several poiats
wherein they have been complained of in Mr. A
det's memorial, with the laws of France oa the
fame points.
It is sflertedf that the American government has
violated the 17th article of the treaty of 1778, by
arreting French privateers and their prizes ; and
that it has exercised Jhoclting perfections towards
them.
It will be founi, on an accurate enquiry, that all
the prizes brought in under French commissions,
that have been reflored, have been found to be in
one or the other of the following delcriptions :
1. Those captured within a marine league of the
fhorcs of the United States.
2. Where the capturing vtffcl was owned, and
also principally manned, by American citizens.
3. Where the rtpturing vefiel was armed in our
ports.
As to the jurifdidlion exercised by the United
States over the sea contiguous to its shores, all na
tions claim and exercise such a juris liSion, and all
writers admit this claim to be well founded ; and
they have differed in opinion only as to the «iftance
to which it may extend. Let us fee whether Irapce
has claimed a greater or lef» extent of dominion
over the sea; than the United States. Valin, the
king's advocate at Rochelle, in his new commenta
ry o* the maiine laws of France, publifhcd firft in
1761, and a<;ain by approbation in 1776,* after
mentioning the opinions of many different writers
on public law on this fubjeft, fays, " As far as the
distance of two leagues, the sea is the dominion of
the f«vercign,of the neighbouring coafl ; and that,
whether thcte be foundings there or not. It
" is proper to observe this method, in favour of
Rates whose coasts ate fe high, that there are no
foundings close to the fttore; but this does not pre
vent the exteufion of the dominion of the sea, jas
wc/lin rejpeft. to jurifdiflion as thejifheric's to a greater
diltatice, by particular treaties, or the rule herein
before mentioned, which extends dominion as far
as there are foundings, or as far as the reach of a
cannon shot—which is the rule at present univcrfally
acknowledged." The effect of this dominion, the
fame author fays, " according to the principles of
Puffendorff, which ate incontellible, is, that every
sovereign has a right to proteA foreign commerce,
in his dominions, as well as to fecpre them from in
sult, by preventing others from approaching nearer
than »o a certain distance." In extending our do
minion over the sea to one league, we have not ex
tended it fofar, as the example of France, and the
other powers of Europe, would have juftified—
They therefore can have no right to complain as
our conducl in this refpe£k.
* Cook 3. title 1.
The feeond defciipiion of cases, which hai in
. duced the American government to rellore prizes
claimed by the French, i», where our citizens have
■ made a capture under a French commiflion.
The thiru article of the ordinances of the ma
rine of France, which the commissions now given to
French privateeers require to be observed, [Valin,
z vol. 235.] « as follows :
" We prohibit all our fubj'fts from taking com
miG>jns from foreign kings, princes, or dates, to
arm irefiels fjr war, and to cruize at lea under their
colours, unlcfs by our permifllon, on pain of being
treated as pirates.'! The commentator fays, these
general and indefinite prohibitions have no excep
tion. Tliey extend to commissions taken from
friends or aHies, as well as neutrals, and those that
are equivocal: and they were confrdered as ne~cf
faiy consequences of the laws of neutrality.
" If, fays Valin, the commiflion of the foreign
Prince be to cruize agsinft hit enemies <Si\o are our
alliet, or those with whom we intend It pre feme neu
trality, it would afford jutt ground of complaint 011
their pari, and might lead to a rupture." The rale
extends ns well to fubjefts domiciliated as net domi
ciliated in the kingdom, and foreign countries ;
" for Frenchmen arc not the lefj Frenchmen, for
having gone to live in foreign countries." If Fiance
may rightfully prohibit her citizens from accepting
foreign commiflions to make prize of the property
of her friends, why should the United States be
reproached for exereifing a similar rjrht \ A necrf
fary consequence of this wife and jutt prohibition is,
that all prizes taken contrary to it should be resto
red with damages to the party injured.
The third description of prizes restored is where
they have been fitted, and armed in the ports of
the United States.
I find no direst, positive provision by the ma ine
laws of France, prohibiting this ; but the whole
tenor r.{ those laws supposed that vessels of war,
are atmed in the ports of the sovereign who give
the cßmmifiion. French privateers molt not only
fit out in a French port, but are bound to bring all
prizes made by them into Tome particular port, or
ports expressed in their commifiions, Valin. 2 vol.
,276. And it is certain that the king ef France,
previous to his alliance with the United States, d#-
livered up some American prizes, to the Englilh,
because the capturing vessel had been armed in a
French port.
Mr. Adet's memorial charges that the English
have been permitted to arm their veflels, and bring
their prizes into our ports.
As to this charge, the fa£t is simply denied. In
the cafcs mentioned, the veflels laid to have taken
in guns for their defence, were gone, before he
made his reprefen;ation : yet he complained, and
the government did nothing. I ask what could
they have done ? Mr. Adet will answer, they might
have declared war, against Great- Britain ; and it
is certain, this was the only remedy that remained,
in such a cafe : but neither our interest, nor our
duty would have permitted us to have adopted it.
Our interest did not permit us to gWe up our neu
trality, and engage in a foreign war ; the ovent of
which would have produced many and certain evils,
and could not by any poflibility have produced any
good ; —and it was contary to every principle by
which a just nation would desire to aft, to have
made war on a whole people, because one or two of
them had clandestinely taken arms on board for
their defence, in one of oar ports, without the
knowledge of their government, or of ours.
The memorial complains that we have infringed
the 17th article of the treaty of 1778, by retrain
ing the prohibition therein contained only to the
(hips of war, and privateers of their enemies, who
should pome into our ports, with their prizes.
The literal sense of the 17th article, is, that no
armed (hip who shall have made prizes from the
French people, shall receive an asylum in our ports.
The 22d article fays that no privateer, fitted under
a commiflion of the enemy of either, shall have a
sylum in the ports of the other.—Neither of these
articles fay any thing of prizes. The literal appli
catio»of them therefore would exclude the captur
ing velTelt, but give admifiion to their prizes ;
which could never have been the intention of the
parties. The law of nations, exptefsly adopted by
France, relative to the right of asylum, may ilhif
trate these articles of the treaty. Old. Louis XIV.
Art. XIV. declares, " that no prizes made by
captains under a foreign commiflion, (hall remain in
our poits, longer than twenty-four hours, unless
detained by bad weather, or unless the prize shall
have been made from our enemies." But this arti
cle, fays Valin, is only applicable to prizes carried
into a neutral port, " and not at all to armed ves
sels, whether neutials or allies, who have taken re.
tuge there, without prince, either to escape the p\ir
fuit of enemies, or for any other cause.' They
may, in this cafe remain as long as they pl.-afe."
By the law of neutrality, simply, French j;iizes
could only have remained twenty-fosr hours in-uur
ports, but by the treaty they have obtained the
privilege of remainfhg as long as they please This 1
privilege iuu not ouly been allowed them in its ful
led extent, T>ut we had geue a ltc|» further, and as
a favor permitted them to fell their prizes, which
neither the treaty nor the law of nations required :
and \yhi«h was of more i'mportancc than all the reft
put together. This favor, as favors generally are,
is now claimed as a right", anß the withholding it is
coolidered as an injury Let us fee what the'or
dinances of the French marine have said on this
point. Ord. Louis XIV. Tit. prises. Art. XV.
" If in the prizes brought iato our ports by vessels
| armed tinder a foreign commifii«n, there be any
merchandizes belonging to our ftihjet'ti, or allies,
those belonging to oqr fubjetls (hall OS restored, and
the rtjl shall not he put into bouse, or be pur
chafed by any perjon under any pretext -what/oever
And all this, feys Valin, is founded on the law
®f neutrality." By the Utrecht, Louis
XIV. and his grandson, the king sf Spain, agreed
mutually, to pc»mit the prizes mad? by one.to be
brought in, ami fold in (he ports of the other. But
this the fame author fays, wasonly a particular ar
rangement, so much ths. Ids to be prnpofedjfor a
general rule, as the two nations iiad gii-en up th£"
duties on prize goods fold ui % their dominions ;
which however did not laftlonj- en account of the
abuses to which it gave rife. Abufei fimiiar, I
p-emmc, to these to which the pevmiffion
gave rife in ttjis country.
The next ground of complaint is the Britilh
treaty and Its consequences. This treaty is said
to deprive France of all the advantages Itipulated
in t preceding :reaty ; and this is done by an aban
donment ef the modem, law of nations.
If we may credit the declaration of the king of
-France, there were no exciufive advantages (tipu
lated for France, in that treaty. Hl3 ambi(T»<!or
| delivered a paper to the British court, dated the
! 13th of March 1778, whetein, after announcing
j the treaty between France and the United States,
lie fays, " His rmjelly declares ait the fame time,
thajthc contra&ing parties have paid great atten
tion noI to flipulate any exelufive advantages in favor
of the French natien •• anil that the United States
have reftrved the liberty of treating with every other
nation whatever, upon the fame footing of t quality
and reciprocity."
The injury supposed to have resulted from an a
bandonment ofthe modern public law, assumes
two propositions, neither of which is true : ilf.
That neutral (hips make neutral property: ad.i
That materials for building (hips, ?rc riot among
the articles as considered contraband of war. By
the marine laws of France, fieg. Dec. 1744. 4rt..
I J, it is directed that " If tljere are found on board
of neutral velfels, of whatever nation they may be,
merchandizes or effects, bplianging to the enemies
of his majesty, they (hall Wgood prize, even tho'
they are not of the growth or manufacture of the
enemy's country; but the veflcls (hall be relcafed."
Previous to this j-egulation, and contrary to the
law of nations, as Valin acknowledges, if "either
the (hip or the cargo, or any #,irt of it, was ene
my's property, the whole wjp confifcated, by the
laws of France. And at this day, neutral pro
perty on "ooacd of enemy's rti'/ps are, by the fame
laws, liable to confafcation.
As toftontrahand of war, timber is enumerated
among the articles that are so, by Vattel, lib. 111,
chap. VII. but Valin is much more particular, 2
vol. 264. "In the treaty of commerce conclud.
Ed with tlje kirig of Denmark, the 23d of Augnft,.
1742, pitch rand tar were declined contraband 1
as also rosin, fail cloth, hemp, cordage, mafls and *
timber, for the building of flips- There would have
-Been, therefore, no reason to complain of the con
duct of the EngliGi, if they had not violated par
ticular treaties ; for of right (de droit) these t/.ingr
are contraband at present, and have been so Jince tin
beginning cf this century, which was not the cafe
formerly."
By th« modern law of nations, e.xprefsly adopted
by France, enemies property on boar«i neutral (hips
is good priae ; and by the fame law, the number
of contraband articles has been increased so as to
include th» materials for (hip building. All the
fituaiions were probably forefeen, in which the
treaty might operßte favorably or unfavorably for
France, at the time it was made. It might have
been ftipulatcd that materials for (hip building
(hould be deemed contraband, inflead of declaring
they (hould not ; or, that the United States (hould
not enter into any treaty in which they (hould be
made so. Neither of these being the cafe, there
is no ground of compla.'nt, except that the confe
rence is inconvenient, at present, to France, and
the belligerent power* allied to her. If timber and
naval stores are contraband by the law (if nations,
to "declare them to be so by a treaty, cannot be
coufidered as a privilege granted to one nation, or
an injury to any other.
[Remainder to-morrow. J
CONGRESS of t«I UNITED STATES.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES*
Wcdnefclay, December 14.
Continuation of the delate on the addrtfs in aufwer
to the President's fpeeeh.
Mr. Harper said it was in order to move for a
divifiotl of this quellioo. The whole of that part
of the answer which moved to be struck
out, in order to introduce an amendment iu its
place, was personal to the President : the preceij.,
ing clause, which the gentleman from' Virginia
(Mr. Giles) included in his motion had refpeft to
the fituatien of the country, and contained several
objects of general concern, and therefore altoge
ther different from the other. Many gentlemen
might wifti to retain one arid to ftrikt out the other.
He (hould wi(h thefenfeof the committee to be
taken on striking out the firft paragraph, " Where
we advert, ' &c. He prefttmed this paragraph
would not be (Iruck out. It related to the fitua
• ion of the country in general; to the grateful
sense we tfntertain of its liappy (late; and ofthe
influence our conititution has had in producing this
piofperous situation. And he would alk whether
this had not been the cafe ? There might be differ
ent opinions. Some perfuns might think that the
trifling c>«rangeracnts which had taken place a
nionglt our merchants, might lessen the profpero«|
scene ; others might think that such circumftaneej
would occur in the molt flourifhiog (late of a ooun.
try. But was there any man who did not believe
the United States enjoyed happiness and prospe
rity ? That commerce ana agriculture did not flou
ri(h; that the laws did not reign, aud that the
country held out a pleasing and delightful prof
peft ? He would ask, whether any pc.fon would
deny that our government had brought about this
fituatioaof things ? Would any man fay, that if
that goveinmeat had nth been eflablilhcd, or feme
thing like it, this happiness v.ould have been ca.
joyed t He believed not. Mr. Harper then took
a view of the miserable situation of this coustry
before the establishment of the present government,
and made a contrast between the ijvo si liations.
If, then, said he, these advantages have been real
ly enjeved, where is the impolicy of faying so ?
What implication is there in this again (k the mea-*
furesof gentlemen, which, If they had been afteij
upon, might have pro.luced (though he was far
from Believing they would have done so) more hap.
py eftefis? Was jt calling upon them to contra.
Jift '.hi-i'fortner opinions ? No. They fee the hap.
pineft txid, and whence did it arise but front go-v-rjyaeat ? He believed the gentlemen would join
1 toi in faying they concurred in these sentiments ;
and if so, where was the propriety of refufing to
agree to this clause ? He hoped they would re-con
sider the matter, and that by dividing the question,
the clause moved te be struck out might be retain
ed.
Mr. Nicholas said the question could not be di
vided ; if it could, a member could never vote a
greeably to his wijh. For his own part, he had
lather the paragraph in question should be retained,
nnd have liked the motion better had it not included
sit. '
Mr. Giles said gentlemen might refufe to strike
cut the whole, and then move to strike out a part,
and so attain their otyft. Bur, said he, aJmitting
the paragraph to be founded on truth, was it a
thing they had any thing to do with as legislators ?
Was it proper to remind the people of Europe
that they are not so happy as we ? Huppofe, added
he, any individual was to go into the house of his
neighbor, and fay to him, " am very rich and
}-?ti are poor 5 I am very happy, but you are very
referable j" would fncli a conduct be well receiv
' ed i He believed not: and he was unwilling to do
that in a national capacity, which he disapproved
in an individual one.
Mr. Sitgreaves said, he felt himfelf perfectly in
different as to any division of the question, because
bis mind wat prepared to give an unqualified vote
to every sentiment contained in the answer report
ed. He did not believe it to be either unnatural
or unbecoming in us to derive happinefa from a con
trad of our own fltuation with that of other na
tions who were less favored. He believed it was
the only way in which,<ve could justly appreciate
the value of our fltuation. He believed everything
appeared greater or less, worthless or valuable by
comparison, and that our happiness and prosperity
would not appear evident, except eontrnlltd with
nations less so. He perfeflly agreed with the gen
tleman from Virginia (Mr Giles) that what was
condemnable in private life, would he equally so in
public, and he should think it wrong'for a man to
exult over his neighbor's poverty or misfortunes in
the way he had mentioned ; but though he should
fiot ebufe to o£fend his neighbor, he saw no im
propriety if he, in the bosom of his family, patm
ed his faults and follies, in order to watn those uli
der his care against, the like, and that they might
be fufliciently grateful for their superior advan
tages. He thought there- would be nothing in
such a condu& either unnatural or unbecoming,
and therefore did not wish to fee the paragraph
struck out.
He did not in any degree doubt the wisdom and
firmnefs of the •dminiftration of the government :
in the language of the answer, he entertained " a
grateluleonviftion, that the wife, firm and patriotic
adminißration of the Prcfident, had been signally
conducive to the fuecefs of the present form of gov
eramect." This, he said, was not only his senti
ment—it was the sentiment of America.—Such a
sentiment was the anly reward which could be giv
en to labours like those of the PJCuient : he tir#t
they ouglit not to'be withheld by that house, when
every public body, from one end of the continent
to tire other, were poflring thrui forth. He saw
so reason for being io veiy cautious of cwmplimeat,
which would in effect convey reproach inllead of
praise. If these sentiments were universally felt,
there could be no impropriety in their expressing
them : but if that House, indeed, believed that the
sdminillration of the Prefidtnt had neither been
wife, firm nor patiotic, then they would concur with
the motion for striking out. It had been insinuat
ed, that the present situation of this countty, with
refpeft to its foreign relations, was owinj; to the
want s>f firmnefs arid wisdom in the adminiftiation-
His opinion was direfily the contrary, and he be
lieved that it was the opinion of America. This
opinion was fully exprefTed by that Hottfe or a re
cent occasion in the last fcflioTi, and he did not be
lieve it had seen any cause for changing its opinion
It was no reason for qualifying the expreflion rela
tive to the prosperity of the country, because pri
vate credit had been in some degiee deranged, as
that derangement could not be attributed to any
*&. of the government. He was sorry that ftich
circumllances should have been mentioned, to tar.
nifh the bright appearance of the country. These
circumftaiices were *but like a speck upon the fun
Why were they not told of the fires which had hap.
pened at New-York and Savannah, as well as of the
derangements of oar merchants ? Such trivial mat
ters were not to be mentioned in a national view
If the gentleman from Virgiria (Mr. Gilss) did i
rot regret the refignatioa of the Prcfident, he did :
he beiieved America did, and he believed this re
gret was extremely natural andipreper—He did not
thjok it undignified. That gentleman had said the j
gemrunent would go on without him, and that I
there wete many others capable of filling the Prefi- 1
dential chair. This might be so ; but did it sol- |
low, that they should not regret the loss of a valua
ble public servant ) Should we not regret him, said
by, OB account of the univcrfal confidence placed
in him ? Confidence in the officers of government
was valuable, he said, untkr every form, but'pir
ticalarly in a republican government : it was the
chief principle from which it derived its energy.—
Coold 1 his be denied ? If not, certainly regret was
natural, because thi* confidence would not be so
great in his fncceffor, tho' he might be pofTcfTed of
equal talents and virtues.
Mr. Sitgreaves said, ht should not agree to the
notion of the gentleman from S. Carolina, (Mr.
Harper) because it was fub&ittiting other words in
place of those nfed, for no good reason whatever.
Those wctds would not change or improve the sen
timent or the phraseology, and there was therefore
Bo ulP.ity in adopting them. Upon the whole, he
believed the answer reported, to be free from the 1
chargeof adulation. He believed there was not a
sentiment i« it, which was not jnftified by fa£l—
It wat expreflive of national regret at the departure
of our chief magistrate from office, and of national
gratitude for his services ; sentiments, which be be
lieved would not be agreeable to the American peo
ple to withhold from him.
[Debate to be continued.]
Tliurfday, December ry.
The ordir of the day being called fur on the 4n
fwer to the President's Speech, the house resolved
ltfelfintoa committee of the whole, Mr. Muhlen
prg in the chair, when Mr. Giles's ranion foi
linking „ui the la (V eight paragraphs of the answer
being under bonfideration, after some obfervatioos
from Mr. Nicholas, Mr. Rutherford and Mr. Li
vingrton, the motion was put and neg»ti»ed.
Mr. Harper then renewed his motion for (biking
out the seven last paragraphs, for the purpose of
introducing a paragraph containing nearly the fame
sentiments, which, after" a few observations, was
negalived, 25 members only being in favor of it.
Mr. Parker renewed his motion for linking
oat the word. « the freeft.and moll enlightened in
the world, which, after considerable debate, gave
way to an amendment of Mr. Thatcher to have the
expreflion read " the fpeftawle of a free a..d en
lighted natron, offering," &c. whuh wart carried
by a considerable majority^
Mr. Livingfton next moved an amendment in
the sixth paragraph, to strike out from the ward
tianquil" to M period,"* and to introduce in its
Head " present period with that," so as to read
" to compaie the present period with that imme
diately antecedent," &c. which was carried 42
10 37-
Mr. Livingfton next moved .to strike out the
words " wife, firm and patriotic administration**
m the next paragraph, and to introduce in their
Itead the words " wisdom, firmnefs, and patriot
ism," which after much debate was loft.
The committee then rose and reported the Ad*
dress with the amendments, which the house took
Up, and having gone through, Mr. Sitgreaves mo
ved an amendment to strike out the " while we par
ticipate" to " countrymen," and tu insert after the
words '* to interest our attention, and'' to the fol
lowing viz. " at the fame time that we as
sure ourfclvrs that *your jll (t confidence in the pa
triotism, fdf-refpe&, and fortituec-of our country
men, will not, in any event, be difappointcd, and
that they will nor, on any oecafion, forget what is
j due to the charafler of our government and nation."
j This motion ocgafioned considerable debate, and
was at length defeated by the previous question,
which was put in these wards, " (hall the main quef
tiou now be put." The Yeas and Nays were cal
led for, and taken as follow.
YEAS.
MefTis. Ames, Bradbury, Coit, Craik, Daven
port. Ejje, A. Fofler, D. Fuller, Cilbert, Glen,
Goodrich, Grifwold, Harper, Hartley, Hender
fon, S Lyman, Malbone, Sitgreaves
N. Smith, Isaac Smith, W. Smith, Swift, That
cher, Thomas, Thompson, Van Allen, Wads
worth, Williams, Hindman— 31.
NAYS.'
MefTrs. Bailev, Baldwin, Baird, Blount, Bry
an, Chriftic, Claiborn, Clopton, Coles, Dent,
Dearborn, Franklin, Freeman, Gallatin, Gilei,
Cillelpie, Gilman, Greenup, Gregg, Grove, Har
1-ifon, Havens, Heath, Holland, A. Jackson,
G- Jacklun, Kitchell, Livingfton, X. icke, W.
Lyman, Maclay, Macon, Madison, Moore,
Mnhlenbera, Nicholas, Page, Parker, Patron,
Richards, Sherborne, Jfrael Smith, Siradwick,
Swanwick, 11. Sprigg, Van CuriLudt, Varnum,
Venable—4B.
In the laourfe of thit debate, which was of a
considerable length, some very warm expressions
took place betwixt the Speaker, Mr. W. Smith,
and Mr Harper on.the point t>f order. The lat
ter gentleman appealed from the chair to the house,
nnd was pronounced by the house to be out of
order.
Mr. Blount moved t® strike out the last sentence
in the 44 far your country's fake, dtc.—
» hen the Yeas and Nays were taken as follow :
ye a. a
MefTrs. Bailey, Baird, Blount, Chriflie, Clop
ton, Cole*, Gallatin, Giles, Greenup, Hcat-n,
Holland, A. Jackson, G. Jackson, Livingfton,
Locke, W. Lyman, Maclay, Macon, Moore,
Parker, Pattoo, Swanwick, Varnum, Venable— 24.
NAYS.
MefTrs. Ames, Baldv%, Bradbury, Bryan,
Claiborn, Cort, Craik, Davenport, Dearborn,
Dent, Ege, A. Fofler. D. Foster, Franklin,
Freeman, Gilbert, Giiiefpie, Gilman, Glen,
Goodrich, Gicgg, Grifwold, Grove, Harper,
Hartley, Havens, Henderfon, Hindman, Kit
chell, S. Lyman, Madison, Malbone, Muhlen
berg, Nicholas, Page, Read, Richards, Sewall,
Sherbbrtie, Sitgreaves, N. Smith, Ifratl Smith,
Isaac Smith, W. Smith, Sprigg, Stradwick,
Swift, Thatchcr, Tbftmaa, Thompfcn, Van Cort
landt, Van Allen, Wadfworth, Williams—s4.
On the question being about to be put on the
anfwef r as amended, Mr. Blount said he wished
the Yeas and Nays might be again taken that pos
terity might fee that he was not coufcnting tp
tlriVaddrcfs/ - The question was carried 67 to 12'.
The Noes were MefTrs. Blount, Coles, Giles,
Greenup, Holland, A. Jackson, Livingfton, Lyvke
W. Lyman,...Maclay, Macon, and Venable.
Meflrs. Am:s, Madison and Sitgreaves were ap
pointed a commii'ueto wait upon the Prcfident to
enquire when and where he would receive the an
swer to his addrets.
Adjourned..
F»r tie Gaiitti or tii Unitsd Statu.
Mr. Fenno,
Confrdering Theatrical exhibitions, when conduced
with an earncft desire to please those, who support the
Theatre, by frequent attendance, as the only rational
entertainment the Citizens, in Philadelphia, can pofli
bly partake of in public.—After the laborions hours of
business, the theatre presents itfelf, to smooth the vari
ed scenes of life, to fee Nature pourtrayedor " catch
the manners living as they rife" either in the exh bra
cing smiles of Comedy, or the impreflive scenes of the
Tragic muli, these form " a confummution devoutly
to be wished," by every admirer of the Drama.
I well remember that for two seasons pafl, the per
formances have been much approved of, ttie perform-,
ers received that indulgence and almoli unbounded en
couragement their refpeflive merits entitled them to s
and, at the clofeof earh season, th?' Managers thanked
the public, for their "very generous and liberal sup
port." How then can those very Managers, now
ternc forth, •rid assert, the very contrary to b* the
fail : it fcfas then true, or if not, tlieir acknowledge
ments mu.t be considered only, a* fatyricil eulogium*
on a parfimoniouo public, whom they ieem inclined to
force ihto any msafure they may plcafe to adopt.
Mj Wign«ll,has gratifird the Phialdelphians, in
bringing Mrs. Merry ti> America, such exquilite per
formances as hers, must convince, even the molt preju
diced, that the ltage can, and ought tu pourtray na
ture in i!| the beauties of exprefi(<on and ailion. In
these Mrs. Merry tnfwers our nioft sanguine expec
tations. Were there such helpa to her at her abilities
deserve, and demand, the New Theatre would fully
compenlate the Managers ( even at the advanced
price ofadmiilion) for their labors. Excepting this
paragon, this excellent thea'rical Star, the present
company is much inferior in numbers and abilities to
any former leaibn : hew then, can the public expect
to have that entertainment generally they have been
used to. \[f we may judge from a comparative fettle
of the abilities of t'lofe Performers who have left the
Theatre ( on .what account the public are no otherwise
concerned than in th«4ofs) and .those newly engaged,
it plainly appears, the public are not benefited- I
have* arranged the merits, upon- a ratio, making fif
teen cq«al to the htgheft perfeflion, upon a general line
»f aifting, of tltofe absent, and of those engaged to
supply their stations, leaving the generality of the
company to their own merits, fcveral of whom are
really refpedtable
Performers absent. New Perforn»»rs.
Mrs. Whi'lock, 13 Mrs. Merry, 15
Shaw, 10 Mechiler, 4
Marshall, 9 Miss L'Eftrange, 4
Cleveland, j Mrs. L'Eftrange, 3
Green, 4
Rowfon, 3
Mif# Braodhurft, 10
Mr. Fennell, 13 Mr. Cooper, II
Bates, It \Varren, 9
Chalmers, Iz Fox, £
Whitlock, 11 L'Eftrange, 4
MarOiall, > 7
Cleveland, ' s
Green, 5
119! j6
From this it appears that the former Companies
were much fnperier in number and abilities, to the
prelent arrangement. I have omitted feversl perform
ers belonging now and formerly to the fame theatre,
whose performance* merit, on the fame feale, viz.
Mr. Moreton, 13, and who undoubtedly is the only
chaste male Adlor on the New Theatre stage. Mr.
Wignrll, 10. Mr. llariiood, ( whom the public are
happy to recognize once again) 13. Mr. Francis, 9.
Mrs Oldmixon, 14. Mrs. Morris, 8. Mrs. War
rell 9.
The above system of Merits, are more from public,
than private opinion ; and the general receipts of the
T heatrewrn speak r.ioft feelingly to the understandings
of the Managers, and Subfcribcrs, whether the advan
tage this Scafon, will be more favorable than any for
mer one. , PHTLO THEATRICUS.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF lUE U.VITED STATES.
A'EiV THEATRE.
HENRY IV.
THAT " huge hill of flefh," the fcnfible, wit
ty, Ray, humorous, cowardly, gluttonous, lying,
thieving FalitafF, not been, " any time ihefe
two-and-twenty years,"* exhibited in a more mif
terly and inip.ctlive style, than by War es, on
Weiuefiley evening.
Indeed this piece of acting was given with to
petfatt comprehcnlian of al! the minutiz of the
cliara&er, that criticism or comment were rain :
From the opening of the play to the ciofe, it was
supported with such naivete, animation, and confif.
tencyV *»» to authorize the opinion, that no perfor
mance in America ever afforded higher fatisfaQion,
or pnffefled better claims to pre-eminent met it.
Shakefpcaie, in thecouifeof his dramas, furnilhes
the critical observer with tbe original models of most
of the prominent. chaiaAers in modern plays. Dr.
Johnson ebfrrvfs, thai his " Pistol" is the model
of i.ll the bullies on the Engllfh stage, Dr. Young's'
Revenge is wholly built on the tragedy of Othello,
but it ie unneceflary to rite instances : the remark
must ftvikr every one ; and all that is left to regret,
is, that this fyffem has not been mote generally
putftied. Falftaff, unrivalled Falftaff, still (lands
untouched by the pen of any modern imitator.
And here Sbakrfpeare mtrft forever (hine without a
rival. His overheating excellent* in this finilhed
part, must inevitably swallow, ai in a vortex, all
who attempt to interfere with him. Indeed Shake
speare htmfelf is thought to have fallen off some
what in the continuation of hit Fat Knight, in the
Merry Wires of Windsor. As he is said to have
written this play in order to continue the cbara&er,
by command of Queen Elizabeth, perhaps his ge
nius may have been cramped or laid under reftraiiit
by the loyal command.
If any parts of Mr. Warren's performance were
particularly deserving of commendation, the whole
of his firft dialogue with the prince ; the soliloquy
on hoaor ; tbi merit i> the delivery of which was
such as to render Ihouts of applause iriefiftible ■}■ —
his account of his soldiers ; —and that part of the
fecund aft where he upbraids the prince with deser
ting him, " a plague of all cowards," might be
mentioned as inllancei.
Mr. Cooper has great merit in Hotspur; hilac-'
tion is good ; tho' too redundant. If he erred, it
was in not being " hot" enough—in general, this
leading trait in the chara&er did not miss his atten
tion—at times however he was remiss. The solilo
quy on the contents of the letter, and the scene
with his wife, were admiiabie.
It may not be improper to notice here some re
marks ot a writer, who criticises on Mr. Cooper,
with little " candor" or consideration. Hi» acti
on, fays this writer, was " mechanical." Is not all
aflion mechanical ! After dellttuting Cooper of all
claim to meiit, he concludes with an enumeration,
including all the more important poigtaof thf cha
racter, wherein he acknowledges him to have been
" peculiarly fortunate."
Mr. Moreton, when afllng " Hal" was in his
element, and did ample jnftice to the part ; ht
spoiled all in the Prince, by hi* rant. , In this p» r
Within thi« period have died two performers, of
diftinguilhed excellence in the character of Falftaff—
Garrick and Henderfon. Htd they llv'd to " die here
after," there night have been oppsrtunity of inftitu
trng a comparison :At " 'tis better as it is:" and a
" younki-r" must rely for his knowledge of them, on
the " abflra<si and brief chronicles of the times."
ricular, however, lie hM much amended. It mult
all be ffiakcn off, before he can become a peife£t
actor.
Mr. L'EHrange (are some parti in the King
with confidcrable energy, and effect. W.
Philadelphia,
v FRIDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 16, 1796.
Rktvkn or yorti . 1 £ t Si«
™* £ >i« J E 2
PRESIDENT S ■ J" b i •2J 11.
VICE-PRESIDENT - ! N *• *"■ ■* p •■"• O -
New-llamplhire, | .
1 MafTachufetts, 1613 * 1
j Khode-Hland,
i Connecticut, 94 5
j Vermont,
| New-York, ti 11
i New-Jwfey, 7 7
i Pennsylvania, 1 21413
• Delaware, 3 3 I
Maryland. 7443! 2
Virginia, I 1 ao 115 31
Kentucky,
T«nneflee,
North-Carolina,
, South-Carolina,
Georgia,
Total, !_J .
From the Aurora.
" Mr. Fenno has afle rted, that the Senate'* anfwar
to the PreSdenf « speech paired that House unmnimoujlj.
Wt know te the contrary."
Ext raft from the Journal of the Senate of tie United
States, Saturday, December 10, 1796.
" The Senate resumed the consideration of the re
port of the committee in answer to the address of tho
Prelident of the United States to both Houses of Con
gaefs, and after further amendment* it wat uninimouf*
!y adapted as follows," tv.
It is a melancholy fail, that the true cavfe of the
present fHgnatioft- in aur commcrcial concerns is tie
high price of produce.
Surely our patriotic farmers will not look on tamely
till our merchants are all ruined and their fl»ippn>y rot
ten, for the vain hope that another famine in Europe
may eccur to favor the present exorbitant prices for
their grain.
Arrived—Ship Peggy, Elliot, Bvordeaux, j4 day*.—
Left Bourdeaui October 11.
BY THIS DAY's MAILS.
BOSTON, December 9.
Majfacbufetls 9 Eleflort.
O* Tuesday lait (he sixteen Electors of this Com
monwealth convened in the Senate chamber, agreea
ble to a refolveof the Legislature, pa£fird at the laltfef
lion. The whole number being preftnt, they adjour
ned to Wednesday, when they again met conformably
to the Confiitution and Law of the United States,
and proceeded to the choice of President and .Vice Pro*
fident. The vote, Hood as follows ;
John Adams, t6
Thomas PinckneyS. C. 13
Samuel Jolmfon N. C. %
Oliver Ellfworth Con. 1
An ejiprefs was difcatefced to Philadelphia, with a
certificate of the votes, signed by each Eletfor ; anoth
er certificate goes by the regular port. One is depofi
tcd in the office of the Diftfiil Clerk, and one in the
Secretary's office of the Commonwealth.
NEW-YORK, December ie.
I \ SERIOUS ALARM.
Renewed attempt* to ftt fire to different parti
ef the city have been discovered On Tuesday
night a (hed in the rear of Messrs. Lindfey and
Knox's ivork fliop, in Liberty-fired, was observed
to be caught from coals ef fire concealed in an oiled
cloth, similarly secured with those lately ;depofited
in Mr. Smith's and Depcyfter'e cellars in PearU
street. The hotife of Mr. Lewis Ogden, in Pearl
ftrect, has been twice set on the
malicious intention it indubitable, and he has fens
his black man, fufpe&ed, to prison : Another at
tempt, we learn, wa* made on Tuesday night in
Eeckman-ftreet i a bed was set on fire under a child,
and his criei alarmed his family ; yesterday morning
the back-doot of Mr. R. Leroy's house in Green
wich-street, adjoining Mr. Lindfey'*, was observed
to have been affe&ed from the fame means ; the
fire having burned through the lower part of tiic
door before it expired.
Sufficient evidence ja thai obtained of the evil
intentions of a dclperate gang which iafeft* the
city ; and the vigilance of the citixen* Ihoulc be
excited proportionably to the mifchief which may
arise, if they are not early discovered or checked in
their attempt*. An additional night-watch of con
fidential person*, to be employed by the inhabitant*
of the different ward* ; —or an association of them
selves for the fame purpufc, have been thought of
as some means of procuring additional security, and
in some puts of the city have already been adopt
ed. We conceive that a reward fllould also be of
fered for the discovery of villains; and a sub
scription to defray the expence thereof (which
should be liberal) we have no doubt would be ra
pidly made up by the inhabitant*.
In addition to the above, we hear that attempta
have been mad e to set fire to' the large and elegant
range of store* belonging to Mr. Dclafield, scar
the exchange.
Attempt* were likewise made to set fire to th«
(hip Mohawk, Capt. Moore.
At»o meeting of a number of the inhabitant* of the
firlt and second ward* of thi* city, at Mr. Rat
toonc't tavern, on Wednesday evening the 14th
December, 1796, it wa* nnanimoufly agreed—
Th iT it appear* attempt* have been made by evil
disposed person* (unknown to ui) to set fire to the
citjSiu diver* place* i it is therfcorc recommended
that night-watch, compofcd of citizen* from each
ward, be eftablilhed, to serve in rotation, until a
more regular fyltem can be eftablifhcd ( and that
a guard of twenty men from thi* meeting be ap
pointed to patrole the firlt and part of the second
ward* of thi* city, a* far as Wall-ftrcet, for this
and the four succeeding night* 1 and that Melane
ton Smith, James Van Dyk, Andrew Mortis, Si.
mon Schermerhom, and Henry Wyckoff, be a
oommittee to appoint the watch ia the mean time I
ind it it farther recommended, that fianlar met
, lutes he adopted by the citixen* of the different
ward*. William Niilson, chairman.Horses taken in,
For the Winter Sea/on,
Ancl fed on clover hay at the Subscribers place, 12
miles on the Bristol Road, where good (tabling is pro- ]
vivled, and great care will be ta&n of them J
William Bell. ■
Nov. mwf;wmthtf. j
SWAN N'S
Riding School, Horse Academy Iff Infirmary. \
Adjoining the Public Square, Market Street. .
T. SWANN i
RETURNS'his'finccre thanks to those gentlemen by whom ]
he has been employed, during his refidenoe in this Cky, and
flatters himfelf that the success of his efforts, in the numerous, ;
obstinate and dangerous diseases in Horses, in which he has
been consulted, together with his moderate charges, wiH fe
ctir<j iherr future favors and rccemmcndation.
He now begs leave to inform them and the public at larjje
fhatjhis spacious and commodious peemifes, eredted for the
purposes above de-scribed are open for the reception of pupils
of cither sex, who wifhto beinftrutted in the Art of Riding,
and the fight method of governing their horses, so as to ride
thcih with eaie, elegance, and iafety—their horses will be
cardLrtly jnd expeditioully broke, for every purpose, and
made obedient to the will of the riders ; the natural power*
whtfih are (hut up in them, will Ije unfolded by art, calling
3orta uniformity ot motion, and giving to that noble animal
all thofc beauties of action which providence has so bounti
fully i»efto.wed on them. t
Alfo,at hishofpital, every disorder to which the horse is
liaMe will be treated according to the rules of art* confirmed
by long and repeated experience.
The utility of the above institution has never been qncftion
ed, that it has long been wanted in this city, every gentleman's
«itud willmanifeft, and T. Swamn as the fir ft eftablifher of
the veterenary art, solicits afld relies upon the fuppoitofthat
public (which he is ever anxious in serving) to enable him to
Diingit to perfection. The idea of a fubfeription for uhat
purpose has been hinted by several gentleman, who wilb to
promote the inllitution—the amount of each fubfeription to
be returned by services in any of the departments, he orofeffes,
agreeable to the rate of charges Hated in his hand bill. Such
fubTtription is now open, and the signatures of many refpeft
ible gentlemen already obtained. He therefore injorms his
friends and furh Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has not
the honor of being known, that he (hall in a few days take
the liberty of waiting upon them and (clicking their support
and protection.
N. B. Horses are properly prepared for those Ladies and
who wish to be inftruCted.
Nov. 5. tth&f._
The Elephant
IS RETURNED FROM BALTIMORE.
THE public are refpeitfully informed, that
this animal i» to be seen every day, from 8
o'clock in the morning till fun down, in Market
ftreet, No. 106, south fide, between Third and
Fourth-streets.
Admit :ance a quarter of a doUafi, %hat every ci
tizen may fee him.
(&■ At th» request of many perfom it will be
exbibited on evenings from five to «ight o'clock,
at half a dollar each.—The room will be well
lighted' ' November 7.
A Short Delay
In the Drawing of the Canal Lottery,
In Walhington city, has been unavoidably occafionid
by the unforeseen intervention of Mr. Blodget's Lottery
—but as tkc major pait of the tickets arc now disposed
of, this is to inform the public that the drawing of the Ca
nal Lottery will certainly commence without fail, on the
firft Monday in January 1797, and those holding ticket#,
aje hereby requeued to fend a statement of those fold, and
those on hand.
notly young,
DANIEL CARROLL, of Duddington,
GEORGE WALKtR,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY,
W. M. DUNCANSON.
The Printers who gave our a plaoe in
their newspapers, are reqpefted to give this notice admis
sion, as the remaining tickets are expe&ed to be soon above
par, and we wiSh adventurers to be timely informed
Nov. ti. |6w.
Treasury of the United States.
NOTICE is hereby given to all persons who are or
may be Creditors of the United States, for any sums
of the Fended Debt or Slock, bearing a prrfeat intereji of ftx
itr eentvm per annum.
1 ft, That pursuant to an A6l of Congress parted on the
a&th day of April, 1796, intitledan a& in addition to an
act r intituled " An ad making fuither pr'ovifion for the
support of public credit, and for the redemption of the
pi&lic debt," the said debt or stock will be r elm huffed and
paid in manner following,to wit. " Firil, by dividends
rt to be made on the lall days of March, June and Septern
<c ber for the present year, and from the year one thousand
" seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year one thou
** sand eight hundred & eighteen inclufive,at the rate of
" cyie and one half per centum upon the origiual capital.
«« by dividends to be made "On the last day of
14 December for the present year, and from the year one
thoufacd seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year
44 cue thousand eight hundred and seventeen inclusive, at
11 the rate of three and one half per centum upon the ori
ginal capital ; and by a dividend to he sna 'e on the lafc
" day of December, in the year one thousand eight hun
" dred and eighteen, of fach sum, as will be then ade
quate, according to the contrail, for the final redemp
tion of the said flock."
ad. All diftinftion between payments on account of
Interefl and Principal being thus abolished by the eftablifna j
ment of the permanent rule of reimburfem«nt abovs de
cribed, it has become ncceflary to vary accordingly the
powers of attorney for receiving dividendst!v public
t.editors will therefore observe that the following form
s eftabtffhedfor all powers of attorney which may be
granted after the due promulgation of this notice, viz.
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that
1 <
do. male, eonjT'tule and appoint
■of my true and lawful At
tor,-: - f-v frt yOndin my name t to receive the divuiendj which are,
er Jball be payable according to law, on thj (her« describing the
stock) Ji an ding in my name in the books of (here dcfcrfbmgi the
books of the Treasury or the Commiffioncr of Loans,
where the stock is credited) from (here mfert the com
mencement and expiration ot time for which the power of
attorney is to coatinuc) with power also an attorney or attyr
nics under him y for that purpose to mcke andfubjlilutc, andto do all
IzhoJul ucls requifttcfor ejfetiing the premises, hereby ratifying and
i'nfirmir.g ell that my said Attorney or h isfubflitute lawful
ly do, by virtue hereof.
Jit IVitnefs henofy I have hereunto set my Hand and Seal ihi
day of in the vear
Staled and Delivered
in prefenee of
HE IT KNOIVN, that on the <shy of
ef -re me perf 'anally came
within named and acknowledged the above letter of attorney to be
his a(7 and deed.
In teflmony whereof I have hereunto set my Han f tnd affix
ed Seal the day and year Lip afcrtjaid.
Given tinder my Hand at Philadelphia, this twen
tieth day of July 1796, pursuant to directions
from the Secretary of the Treasury
SAMUEL MEREDITH,
7 rcafurcr of the United States.
jyf7*3. uj
[ames Mufgrave,
GOLDSMITH JEWELLER,
No. 42, foutli Second-flreet, . s 3
HAS jaft received an affortmcnt of Plated Ware
and Jew'eliery, Plated Tea and Coffee Urns, Cefree
Pots, Tea ditto, Castors from 5 to 8 bottle?, Sugar and
Cream Basons, Bottle Stands, Balkets, high Gandleftics,
Brackets and Chamber ditto, Branches, Sconces, a variety
of Silver and Plated Shoe La'chets, Spurs, 'rfc.ljfc. war
ranted of the best plate; Ladies and Gentlemens Gold
Watch Chains, Seals and Keys; Necklaces, Nock Chains,
Eear Rings, Finger Rings, Lockets, Bread Pins, Stone t
Knee-Buckles, with many other a*tides in the above a
branches. c '
He hsw like wife received an extensive aflortment of
japann*ci tea and coffee Urns, periian, blue, brown,
black and gold.
All kinds of work inthe gold and silver line; mioia
tures set, and hair work as usual. *
November 9. tu th & f
Any Person
Who is well acquainted with the River
MISSISIPPI,
And will give D;re<s\ions for failing into the fame,
that can be depended on, shall be gtnoroufiy reward
ed for his information, provided he will leave the
directions with Mr. John Fenno, printer, Philadelphia,
or Edmund M. Blunt, Newburyport.
November 3. iawirn <
Lottery and Broker's Office,
ffo. 64, South Second street.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 4, for sale—a
Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in (
*he late lottery.
Check Books kept so* examination ami raftering, for
the City of Washington, No. a, and Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which are now'drawing—information wheiQ
tickets arc to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete Jift of »«1 the prircs in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School*Lott£ry, for
examination.
The fubferiber solicits the application of the public
and his friends, who wish to purchase or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
See. or to obtain money on deposit of property.
%* Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
sale atTenDolltrs each, which will be drawn early in
the Spring. '
Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, Augujl 18, 1*96. mtfi
Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE.
No. 63 South Third street.opposite the national new Bank.
SAMUEL M FR NUIRjES and JOHN VrtN REED,
Have entered into co-partnerihip, under rhe firm of
FRAUNCES & VAN REED, in the bufipefs of Brokers,
Conveyancers and CoßimifTion merchants. They buy and
fell on commifiion every species of ltock, notes of hand,
bills of exchange, houses and lands, &c.
procured on deposits, &c. &c. all kinds c f
writings in the conveyancing line,* done with neatnefsand
dispatch; accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the
most correA manner. Coaftant attendance wHI be given.
They solicit a share of the public favor ; they are deter
mined, to endeavour to deserve it.
N. B.,The utmost secrecy observed.
SAMUEL M. FRAUNCESL
JOHN VAN REED. >
Philad. August 27, 1796. m&wtf
City of Walhington.
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11,
FOR THE IMPROi'EMENT 0 I THi
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent > 20,000 dollars, & 7
"dwelltng-houfe, ) cacti 30,000, are ) * ,o ° o
1 ditto 15,000 & cafli 25,000 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & cash iOjQOO 20,000
I ditto 5,000 & ca(h 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cafft 5,000 lojooo
1 cash prize of 10,900
2 do. 5,000 each, are • 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,000
20 do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
2cx> do. 50 - - 10,000
400 do. 25 - - io^ooo
1,000 do. 20 - 20,000
15,000 do. 10 • 150.000
16,739 Prizes.
33*261 Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. Tofavour thofc who may rake a quantity of
Tickcts, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the drawn
ticket, and the 3©,ooothe last but one :
And approved notes, securing payment in either money
or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be received for
any number not less than 30 tickets.
This Lottery wM afford an elegant specimen of the pri
vate buildings to be cre&ed in .the City of Washington—
Two beautiful defigrw are already fclf&ed for the entire
fronts on two of the public sqUares; fromthefe prawings
! it ispropofed toereel two centre and four corner hsildings,
as soon as possible after this lottery is fold, apd to convey
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, ir.
the mannerdefcribed in the fchen-e for the Hetel Lottery.
1 A nett dedu&ion of five par ccnt. will be made to defray
the necessary expenses of printing, &r the» fcrplus
will be made a part qf tbe fur.d intended for
t University, to be creeled within the c+ty of Wafliirjgton.
The Drawing will Commence as soon as the tickets are
old off.—The r-ioney prizes will be payable in thirty days
. after it is finifhed ; and any pr zes for which fortunate
, numbersaie not produced within twelve monthsaftor the
: drawing is closed, are to be conAdered as given tov/arcte
the fund for the University ; it being det-irmfned to fettle
, the whole bufinefsin a year from the cidi:.£ of the draw
• ing, and to take up the bonds given as fecurky.
F The real fecuritres given for the payment ot the Prizes,
■ are held by the Prcfident and two Dire&ors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the 2-
' mount ot the lottery.
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment cf *
the late Commiflioners aflifted in the management of thr !
/ Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake this arduous task
a second time on behalf cf the public ; a fufficient num
ber of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
friends to a National University and the other federal ob
je£s may contiHue to favor the design.
By accounts received from the different parts of the
e Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets
have been sent for sale, the public are assured that the
- drawing will speedily commence, and that the care and
caution unavoidably necessary to insure a fafe disposal of
- thd tickets, ha 4 rendered the Ihcrc fufpcifioh indifpcnlable.
s SAMUEL BLODGET.
Tickets may be had at the Bcnk of Columbia ; of
James Well & Co. Baltimore ; of Feter Oilman, Boston :
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells l
Cooper's Ferry. eo
SALT PETRI.
A I quantity of Double-Refined Salt Pctre for
sale at No* 25, South Third-street.
November 5.
Wafhmgton Canal Lottery,
NO. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorited
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fir thousand,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting i
a Canal through t\*: City of Wafhmgtoa, from th Po ;
tornacto theEaftern Branch Harbour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz *i Prize of 10,000 dollars, 20,000
I ditto 1 ©,000 10,000
cSSr} »*»
6 ditto I,coo 6,000
10 ditto 400 4»oo©
20 ditto 100 2,000 1
55 ditto 50 2,750
5750 ditto' II 69,008
To be raised for the Canal, 26,15®
5850 Prizes, 175,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Tenl Dollars, - 175,000
The Commiffioncrs have taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid a& for the punctual payment of
the prizes.
The drawing of tins Lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon as th/ Tickets are fold, of,which timely
notiee will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after th«
drawing is finifhed, shall be considered as relinquilhed for
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed j NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, e/D.
LEWIS XIEBLOIS,
GEOUGE WALKER,
Wm. m.duMcanson,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES CARRY.
City of WafhingcOn, Feb. 11. $
Paterion Lottery.
FOR raifmg fix thousand fix hundred and fixty*fevcn
dollars and fifty by a dedu&ion of fifteen per
cent from the prizes, and r.ot two blanks to a prize, viz
1 Prize of 5000 dollars is dollar? 5000
I ; 1000 1000
/ 500 s©o
5 200 ioco
* 20 100 ' 2000
99 SO 4950
200 2.5 5000
2000 10 20/300
5 Lafl drawn numbers of # 1000 dollars each, 5000
2332 Prizes. 44,45°
4018 Blanks.
6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44»45<>
By order of the Directors of the Society for establish
ing Ufeful Manufactures, the fuperinfcenuauts of the Pat
erfon Lottery have requested tiie Managers to offer the
foregoing Scheme to the public, and hagre dire&ed them
to refund the mohey to those persons who have purchased
in the former Lottery, or exchange tke tickets for tickets
n this Lottery.
The lottery has actually commenced drawing, and will
continue until finifned. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
may befcen'at the office ot William Blackburn, N*>. 64
south Second street, who will give information where tick
ets may be procured.
Dated this 17th day of June, 1796.
J. N' GUMMING, 7
JACOB R. HARDENBERG, [ Managers.
JONATHAN RHEA, 3
STJTE OF THE WHEEL.
1 Prize of 5000 - 5000
I 1000 - • - 1000
1 500 - 500
5 200 „ - - ieoo
20 ICO - • - 2000
90 50 - 450®
165 '25 - - - 4125
The "five fcift drawn tickets, icoo e*ch, 500©
Being all the valuable prizes, besides a full propor
tion of the 10 dollars.
As the Lottery is cutifiderably more than one third
drawn, the value of the undrawn tickets is great
ly increased, and it is worth the notice of those
who hold tickets in the old feheme, that they can ex
change their tickets for thole in the aba*e, if they ap
ly soon, and at a moderate advance co*fldering the
now real value of an undrawn ticket.
The tickets being nearly all fold, the drawing in
future will be ofterrer, a:. A the Lottery soon finifhed. |
November 12. mwt
By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64,
South Second-Jlreet.
SCHEME of 7 LOTTERY,
; For raising Sixty Thousand Dollars, agreeably to an A(\ of.
the l.egtflaturc of Pennfylvaaia, polled during the tail
' frflion, for building a Stone Bridge over the Rivet
( Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, in the County of
Berks. Dollars.
i Piize of 20,000 Dollars - 20,00 c
1 do. of 10,©00 do. - - 10,000
3 do. of 5,000 do. - 15,000
4 do. of 2,000 do - - 8.000
fttydo. of 1.000 do. ... 80.000
: 39 do, of 500 do. - - *9,500
s 80 do. of 200 do. - J 6,000
: 200 do. of 100 do. - *o t ooc
? 300 do. of .50 do. - - 15,000
5 \ da. of 500 do. to be paid the posses->
; for of the firffc drawn no.
c do. of 3,000 do. to be paid po TeHors )
of the five lalt drawn nos
, 9,4b© do. o 15 do. : - 141,000
16,054 PrixM 300,000
10,046 Wanks —
go,coo Tickets at Ten Dollars 300,000
All Prizes fnall be paid fifteen days after tfye drawing ii
finifhed, upon the demand of a poffefior of a fortunate
ticket, fubjeft to a deduction of twenty per cent. The
Drawing w\ll emnmence as soon as the Tickets are difpofrd
of, or perhaps sooner. of which public »otice will be given.
Philip Miller, Peter Ker/hner t WiHiani Wit man,
Joseph Hiejler, James Ditmer, Thorrins Dundas,
Jamet May, John Otto y John Keim, Daniel CraejJ s
Sehajl'tqa Miller, Commissioners.
Reading, May the 9th, 1796.
Tickets in the Canal Lattery, No. 2, to be had at the
above office, where the earlieil information of the draw
>f ing of the Washington No. 2, and Pa«terfon Lattery's,
t are received, and checkbooks for examination and regif
5* tering are kept.
O&ober 7. aawtf
Le Breton, *
SURGEON-DENTIST,
Pupifvof the celebrated M/. Dubois, late Dentlfl to the
King and Royal Family of France, member of the
College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris,
Keeps a complete afTortment of every thing neceflary
to be used for the
Preservation of the Mouth and Teeth.
Patent Mineral Teeth, and Human & Tvory Teeth ;
Dentrifice in ponder; Opiate; excellent Elixir fur
sweetening the mouth and preserving the teeth—he
also furniflies Brufties and foft Sponges.
*** lives in No. 135, above
Pourth-ftreet.
November 26. tts
DANCING SCHOQL.
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL will open hisfchool on Mon*
day the 31 ft in ft, at ten o'clock in the morning, at his
Elegant hew Ball Rooms,
In Fourth, between Cliefnut and Walnut Street!,
Hours of tuition for young ladies, from 10 to x o'clock
on Mondays, Wednefdfcy, and Friday mornings; and for
young gentlemen from 6 to 9 o'clock on the evcningS/O
the fame days.
fn addition so a njimber of new cotillions, he means t»
introduce a variety of Scotch Reels-
Note. Th- firft prailifing ball to be on Ttiefday
rening, the firft of November, and to be continued every
Tuesday, during the fer.fon.
For term 9, &c, enquire at hifc hotife, Nfl.l34,Mar,ket
ftrcet.
oa. 17. tthr
A Manufa&ory FOR SALE.
A Valuable SOAP ;>nd CANDLE Mannfa&ory, situate
in a convenient part ot the city ; the works almost new,
on an entirely original conftruttion, and built of the left
materials, and m»v be set to work immediately. Persons
whowifhto purrhsfe, are requeued to apply at No. 2.73,
South Second Street. September 13. t t f tf
Twenty Guineas Reward.
RANAWAY from the fubferiber on the 33d o<stobcr,
n Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSES ; 21 years
old; about 5 feet 8 inches high ; had on a mixed green
coat, with a green velvet cape and oval yellow buttons;
a striped veR ; a pair of dark spotted pantaloons, and
whole boots much worn. It is probable he may change
his name and dress. He has been accuHomed to driving
a carriage, and waiting. Tire above reward will fee
paid for securing him so that the fubferiber may get him
again, and if brought home all rcafonabic charges paid by
Robins Cbamkerlaine.
Eafton, Maryland, Nov. 10. * i4'Tm2awtf
Samuel Richardet
O ESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
Merchants, that he has this day opene<J the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEE HOUSE in the
city of Philadelphia:
. The Subscription Room will be furnifhed with all the
daily papers publilhed in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos
ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com
mercial cities of Europe—They wili be regularly filed
and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, IceCreams, and a variety
of Frcnch Liquors; together with the usual refrefhments,
will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the molt
approved Malt Liquors froraLondon and ot her breweries.
the Larder will ft fupfrtied with the prime apd earliest
productions of the Season.
Large and small Parties, or finale Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners,, or Suppers, at
hours mod conV-nientto themselves—a cold Collation is
regularly kept for conveniency, the Cillof Fare to be had
at the bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifiied, and
the utmost atuntion paid to cleanlincft, and every other
requffite.
£5* S\muel Richardet will be happy to receive, and
execute the commands of fiis Friends, and the Public at
large; and.with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfelf that nothing ori his part {hall be wanting to pre
fervc that patronage with which be has been so diftingVith
i.ngly honored.
Philadelphia, April 19. mwf
Trealury Department,
September 28, 1796.
NOTICE is hereby given, that proposals will be ro*
ceived at the office of the Secretary of the Treasury
until the expiration of the firft day of March next -en
suing, for thefupply of all rations which may he required
for the use of the United States, from the firft day of
June, 1797, to Che thirty-firft day of May, 1798, both
days inclusive, at the places and within the districts here
after mtntiorted, viz. At Ofwego; at Niagara; at
Pjefque Isle; at Sandufky Lake, and on Sandufky
River ; at Detroit; at Michilimackinac; at Fort-Frank
lin; at Pittsburgh ; at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hamilton;
at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-J«fferfoy; at Grenville; at
Picquc Town and Loramies Store; at Fort Adams; at
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance ; at any placc below Fort
Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Eric; at Fort
Steuben ; at FortMaffac ; at any place from Fort Maffac
to the south boundary of the United States on the river
Mifiifippi; at Fort Knoi; at duiatanon.
If fup/lics shall be requi-<d for any posts or places not
mentioned in this notice, all such supplies (hall be fur
nifhed at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed on
between the United States and the Contra«ftor.
The rations to be supplied are to consist ©f the fol
lowing articles, viz.
One pound two ounces of bread or flour.
One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounces of
pork or bacon.
Half i gill of rum, brandy cr whilkey.
One quart and half a pint of falt.~\
Two quarts of Vinegar, ( , , .
Two pounds of 6oap. ( P" hundred rit,on »
One pound *>f Candles, j
The rations arc to be furnifhed in such quantities, as that
t*ere {hall at all times during the said term, be fuflicient
for the consumption of the troops at Michilimackinac, De
troit, Niagira, and Ofwego, for the term of fix month* in
advance, and at each of the other polls, for the term of
at least three months in advance, in good and wholefonje
provisions, if the fame iliall be required. It is to be un
derload, that the Contra&or is to be at the essence and
rifle of tffuirg the fuppliss to tic troops at each post, and
that all loflcjs sustained by the depredations of an enemy, or
by means of the troops of the United States, ftip.il be pa id
. for at the pricc of the articles captured or destroyed, on
the depositions of two or more persons of creditable clu
ra&ers, and the certificate of a commiflioncd officer, as
' certaining the circumltances of the loss, and the amount
' of the ai tides for which compensation lhall be claimed
, OLIVER WOLCOTT,
' Scoretary of the Treasury.
PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO,
—No. 119 —
0 If F UN U T-JTRE E T.
[Price Fight Doll ass ptr Annum.]