• Smtti °f»« mm^^ phUadel^k Daily Advc Tl'.
. . EVENING, : —HtowWirt? *E 5
I .
■ '
Jamaica Spirits. 1
jp,r,u ' James Brown, flvU^
No 119 South Second-street. .
Who offir, for Sak or-Cbarur, ' MM
_J" 'A-L « d 1 well iccoe
u-TEfflmcvL. M -K '» »pply ,ol
ibo!lt 8,0 t, ? frd, T-' IC ' 3r . " -"ftfa^V
for Madeira,^
to soU fc al «e« week,
a barrels on freight Apply - the found in «
-onberd.-t
No. ij Walnut-llreeU wfcarf, tl
FO TH B s?oo- M
WSz Fricndlhip, Q)
i ft h J&'SSBfifflfe *£
A will take lreight on ver,, taw terms.
Enquire of the mailer on board at Ho< ge s \>. tF
Aug 3 ————« 7 T7 /~\ F Li
A well-finifhed, commodious U «,
H O U $ £ rough ex
For Sale, and immediate fojfejmgjven *»W
"ffi
as Aey contain twelve g nea'ly paved, there are ffc "■■
ed garrets. * the yard, winch is iwti) Q " f as g00(l ;
two pumps ; «»»"• ' Ua are J fv and 1. rp.
water as any Uithe city . Ine \ at „ lrt c f the -«SEm.
July 30 . —
"FRENCH BRANDY.
~ , XTY PIPES good Fourth Proof French Brandy w. 1
' S landed to-morrow or the day after to-n.orrow, and
for sale. Enquire of MefiVs. _ _*£
Odter & Boufquet Brothers.
am.'B; - B " RT
Philadelphia, We/i-Chrfer Urafburgb, tof eaa
K Lancaster, York and Fredenck-totvn * s
s 1 A G E S. ■
proprietor, of the .bovC Stages return their be*
T thanks to their friends and the public m general or, L
■theencouragejnent rcceiv«d<n this lmc of bu jncf^ijldbeg
£'c r«tan the public, that they are determined to ruh [ft
thiir ft ages throJb from Philadelphia to I-ancate .
one commencing ohTucfday, the 14th July mftent, 500
• in the following manner, via. A Stfge will .et out on 6oSI Hi
that da- at 4 o'clock in the morning, from the houfi. of And 1
Oc-r« W«d, Market-street, Philadelphia, and run by
(he ww of Weftcncfter and Strafburgh, arrive .''W
' ter the fame evening,, on Friday mormug run to
f=rry and exchange pafiengers with theYmkwid FmU- .1
irk-town flage, return and arrive in PhaUdwlp.Ja on m
nrday, and on Monday morning following, at 4 0 u
said Lee wlilfct out from thefaidGeorge Weed s, PluU- J>,-,
6dphfafa«d arrive at I.ancafter the fame evenmp on oak . ,
Turfda; morning at 4 o>Uck will set out from thi house Fo, le
• of Mrs Edwards, Lancaster, and arrivp « Philadelphia _Jul
the fame evening, andwiil commence agaW on • 1
morning following, and continue eveVy week- The price
Z\J passenger from Philadelphia to Lancaster » three At IV
dollars and a half, to York, four dollars and three <j«ar
ters to Frederick town eight dollars, the like sums fcr
Ito weicht baggag*, with the u&ial allowance o. 14 Jb- M
gratis to'eaclvpaffenger, and 5 pence a n.i)e for iA way U
piffSngers. ,
John Reilly r
George *
- ELEPH AfTT :
This jfnimal is to I: pen in High-Strict, between
thi Tenth ar.d the Eleventh-Strict.
He wit pofltively leavi Philadelphia the tenth of Sep
t .mber.for Baltimere, in his way to Charleston,
wh«re he will win*er. 3
ADMI rrANGS Half a Dollar—quarter oi a Dollar
for Children , , , —
The PANORAMA, or the VIEW of the CITIES of pre
LONDON arid WESTMINSTER, t
Is to be open till the ittth of September, anthe fub
jeft will then be removed to Baltimore with the ELE
PHAMT.
ADMITTANCE for "the PANORAMA,
One quarter of a Dollar.
August
UNITED STATED, ~ ?
Pennsylvania District, 3
Notice is hereby given,
r J-TH aT purfuaiit to a Writto m: directed, from the ho
-1 novaMe Richard Peters, Efqirirc, Judge oi the Di- .
ftrid Court of the United States in and fur the Pennfylva- £
uia DHlridt, ; M
\ Will le exposed to Sale, no
at the Cuftom-Houfe ff on Monday > the ts*h day of Au«
gust, 3 B-gs of COFFEE
1 Bbl. SUGAR
' Half do. do
-2 Do. do. TAMARINDS
i Jiegs do.
1 Bags of Sugar anil
3 Do. Coffee j —
, The sam; having bees lib. :kd pr«f«cMted, and I
condemned as forfeited, in thilaid court'
WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marshal.
Marflial's Office, 30th July, |.;9 6 -
jar JN ARTJST,
Reft dent at Mr. Ofllers's Hotel,
v 'miniature likenesses
\ RE taken and executed in that elegant and delicate
A fiilc, which is so necessary to render aMiniattircPic- .
turc in interfiling jewel.
He will warrant'a ttrong, aad mdifputable refem-
and. he takes the libeftj to lay bjefprc the public
et, this sti-.ee his moll earnest intention t<j deserve their pa
tronage si) his bcit mdeavol's to pie^Te.
N. B. oyecimens are to be fee::.
May ti. S
1 For Rotterdam, Inh br
1 - The "skip the f'DlcriV'
CATHAItINE* Foryth
Tohn FarrADat, Master,
4";.' thirds of her cargo-will be on
1 boa rd this week. The remammg
apply «o the eapt«n on Mr
' ? ;j±v
For 'Sale, . Freight, or Charter,
\t4aL nie'Scho,„er the So ,
km- !o=o ,
htrtsdrtd and twenty tons wrtfjen— 100 <
fix months old, a f An All
- built, fail-failing vessel, handfortTely fimlhed off, and well
found in every" particular. For tcrms On boari
On board said schooner, lying at Bickley and Eohlen's -
wharf, the firft above Market-street.
wwmt* them are for sa«s, April:
: A few half-bbls. Prime Mess Beef. —
I"'y>4 . —J- I D
For Sale,
Or for Charter tothe Wefl-lndies, T HA '
r T;EE SHIP State
- CERr;.S, le M o 7;
Pkilaidfkin Built,
O" FLive Oak and Red Cedar, burthen about 3500 btr- j
rels, now discharging at Latimer s wharf. J his vef- I (o hi
f-1 is in excellent repair, well fouud-aud will bear a tho- ( j M and
rough examination, and as soon as will be lea- y or an< j
dy to take in a cargo. For term, apply to
. . John \ aughan.
t i_
f; foTJeremie,
£mm Brig Be tie y.
in* XHEY are farf-failing veffcls, and have elegant accommo
dations. Far only, apply to
Richard & James Potter,
. , S No 8 north Fror.t-ftrtec
AU 5* -5 -J-J.——
ffi ji " For Sale or Charter,
and -J** THE SNOW For am
boston, ' Tl]t
. BURTHEN ' 1 009 ®bls. of flour—flie may be fertt D'flriC
rh. to sea at a fmali erpe.ice, her fails and rigging hein£ in of Sep
very good order—apply to 4l ph,'
James Campbell, or Coun[
Ge&rze Latimer. bois, i
betl « fc' r «l
for, A P nl a 9'
beg Just Arrived, TO
ruh in the (hip Molly, John Frost, Mailer, frort Liverpoit
L't, s'ood Bushels Bell fiae ftoved SAL T, c nee
ton 609 Bulbels CO.".L, , A li-t-vrf
" "» c ""•«' 9o S s Sf»Y 's;
ICuf- Philip Nidclia & Co.
| such ]
S ! U ' S . N. B. THE S> ID
s Ship M O L L Y,
lock. tU " |S for SALE or CHARTER, (he is /, Oi
•hila- I years old, Philadelphia built, of wiuu j phiU
On oak, was well fa)ted and carries about 4200 barreis ol Flour, j "
louse For letms apply as above. j j
lphia July 23 —- I -r-r
pri« This Day commenced Landing, \\\
three At IV ifflins wharf, the cargo of the Brig Lucv. and bloop 1-2 '
qual'- St. Jago, from St. JagOdeCuba—conultitigof
r.s ffcr White anil Brown B(sx SUGAR. I •>
4 lb. MOLASSES, of an-exeellent quality. j witl
way COFFEE. evel
; 4 w HIDES and HONEY. Also, 1T
For Sale or Charter. I tlu j
The bf 'tg LUCY,
yli- A I cut > Urorig veflfel, will carry a- j
-L*- bout I2bo barrels, and may go to j
n cf« with avery fmallexpenfe. I *
LhTabove wiU be fold for cash or approved notes.
of Sep- Samuel Emery,
•leOon, -No. 64, south Second-llr«et. I
July 17, 796. - dt /". Lfa,
Dol!ar , Landing !
lES of From on board th« Nancy, William Belcher, mis- l~
ter, from Bourdeaux, a cargo, conliftir.tf of— i
/"b- ,60 Hhds. CHOICE CLARET, D
KLE " 17.1 Cases of 24 bottles each CLA RET, jar
286 d<>. of 24 do. WHITE WINE, I
BRANDY, SWEET OIL, and «■
. f 1 TRUNK of RIBBONS,
For Sale by
F. Coppingei. j
T»ty 2 3- ... ' iL j
the ho. For Sale,
the Di- * xiiree BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chsfnut J
anfylva- £\ between Front and Second ftraets, in which c
Me!Trs James Calbraith & Co. have for many years (and r
now dc) carried on business. ■
of An- PciTeiTion will lie given in one month, or sooner. '■
For terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or !:
HECTOR CALIIRAI l'H. i
April 11. . • _ ■»' '
Wm. HOLDEWKSSE, 1
No. 76 High Street,
1 j T TAS received, by the latest arrivals from Europe apd
ited.au |—jt tijeEaft Indies, a well fele&cd assortment of SiTc
r 1 Mercsry,Lir.en Drapery and Haberdafiiery Goods; which
' he will fell, Wholesale and Retail, on the lowest terms ;
amongst which are,
Some fine India muslins em'oroidered with ggld and fiiver
Superfine Book, Jaconet, and Mulmul duto
j),, t !o do do Handkerchiefs
5S K S Some extra black taffeties,lute firings and colored PcTfisns
: delicate Bandano Handkerchiefs
rtnrc i'ic- . Long and Ihort Nankeens
Englilh Mantuas of the firft Tiihty
: refcm- Danvafe table linen and napkins, very fine
tie public Silk Hosiery, an elegant alfcrtnUtnt
: their pa- Theall and cotton do
Umbrellas—green filli, oil'd do. and do cloth
French cambrics, very fine
$ Irift Linenr, do. &c. &c. June 14 §
; . , uiN'i 1 r.u 31
Tu'l Arrived 1 pcndsvlv/
Jn h brig U«fc„ bom !«*-* >'«> <" <* » j
WjL ol very prime Coffee ' »Jr
' in aft d a D "D
AB , la the schooner Hope, from New Orieans. APR
BBW W HE v
COTTON ! VV tbef
HIDES and ihe twelfth 4
LOGWOOD. [fr of
A j iUtf credit wilt be given for Approved Notes. j iicial torn
MeUd and J»«« 1 Olter ' f ,< I £Sss
.TuWa?., r j purpfles, in,
la(l Arrived, ' At , hc £r
lh the Snow Boston, Jame, Kirkpatricfe, maftrt from Li- elpKia>
vet;pool, ' fevei'th oF 1
5000 Bulhe'i SAI/f ; '. -f- niuety-five.
■ 100 c«te» QUEBNS WARE; »»4 v An Aft to 1
; An AtTortntentV SHIP CHANDLERY; eClabbfe
' pun Hit , redls thai
On board, at Pitne-ftrdet wharf. -—Apply to _ thediftri
James Campbell, or town; a
* j- • ' Sect. 1'
\ George Latimer. prefentativ
. J affsm
——L r " — ~ T»l7 (* 1 aS, intitu'
ON CARRLA.CrLO. the United
- _ I circuit cdu
Notice is. hereby Given, en & y<*
JUs Conciefs 1 of the United H nd that a
THVr agreeably to after t
1 Slates of America, passed " r i lhe convoy- pMwMfl
of Mav, 1 7961 ,ay h h f ortne r a£ls for that pur- j f a ftl cotirt,
-a i
°" lies and rates following, tp wit. , | cess of th
a " For and upon cvbry Coach, 15 dols. I i ft g 0 f trii
uu iq evevy Chariot, i* dols. I c uttß anc i
' upaneveiy udolsi I fe(d ciriu
_ fef;
pannei work
with blinds, gla&sor curtains, 9 dols. wi»e{W
' > uDon four wheel carnages, having Iramed polls and he ale..
tops with Heel fp.ings, 6 d«b. trift .s he
uf on four wheel top Carnages, With wooden or iron clamaUcl
fpiings or jacks, 3 dols.
10- u>on curricles with tops, 3 dftls. 1
upon chaifet with tops, 3 dols.
unon ch»iis with tops, 3 dols.
uion lulkies with tops, 3 dols. Appri
U1 to» other two wheel top carriages, 3°° '• .
- upon two wheel cirt.ages, with feel or uon springs,
3 dols. , - ar>u Depbi
For and ali other twowheel
upon every fcur wheel carriage, having frame j
.nd tops, a«d relliug upon wooden spars, 2 dols.
'The Coßt flois of the Revenue of the firft; dav jD(
rent Diftrift oi Pennfylvahia, will attend u?t,l 3
sin of September nest,
at 'the house of Daniel S CJfr
Countvol Moefgomery ; and at the hou , thjUni
bois, Esq. in lhe County of Bucks; ol w.nch all peuo p deiphia.
c fciled ol Inch Carriages arc desired to take noiiee. a .„ JC „ 0 '
- Notice is also given, p^ccm
. TO all retail dealers in Wines, JMd f^ e, ft n on £' )| Court,
"r, St-
Hich licences. WILLIAM NICHOLS,
v Infpeflor of the Revenue of the firft survey
, ~f ihe dlilnAof Pennfylvani=.
' s ij (Mccnf JnfpKlion. Jt i .
white I ia, J U W. 1. -* '
ur ' Tvy<*rtfy Dollars Reward. j,
1 TTTAS STOLEN, last e+eh:«g, from th = P* 11 ""
r, j W OELDINO, 15 jj,
f P throaT ('the pa" bein ? formerly chafed) ;has a leather on hcn
' hineck,the P mane onthe near fidehis foot-locks fretted amo
with a clog, and i«a IkAfe of much bone and size. Who- . rhcJ
i ever secures him with tip: thief, shall have the above r - fionSj
ward, orfor the Horse alone a The I
I U0 ?", ep4W ,
I Ttilv 7 - - ------ ■1 ■ >— ®7
J —takX^otice,
rry a " application will fie made £or the renewal of __
'g°lo 1 the following certificates, lifted by f >
Register of tl.e Treasury, in the name ot Roger Oril
wold, Efq- of Norwich, Conne(£licut—
1 certificate, fix per cent domestic flock, I\o. 15, Q r
:t " j —dated the 17thDecember, 1795, bearing intcreft from
. dt . f -. th- firft day of January, 1791, ror 1,597 6j-ioo dol, J
I 1 ditto, three; per cent, domestic flock, No. 10,68
f t —dated December 16, 1795. bearing mtereft from the
r > msf - } fcft day of January, 179J, tor 994 ol [ a "- ~ ,
,f - I i ditto, deferred stock, No. .9j*66— dated the 1 7 th
{December, 1795, bearing mtereft from the firft Jann-
T, I ary, iSol", for 79S Ss -100 dollars. .
1, Said certificates are fuppoled to have been loft or
(W'.en in this city feme time in December or Janua y V
JOSEPH THOMAS, »j
No. 59, North Front-street.
ei. Philadelphia, My -
-iii A Countfy Seat to be fold
I A BOUJ" fewa acres and a half of land seat the three
Chsfnut A mile llone on the road leading to .Gray s gardens and
in which , extending withagentle declivity from the (ai roa o .ie
:ars (and rf wr Sehuylkill—on which are credled a convenient
frame house fuitahle for a tenant, a frame barn and ftabje,
er. a large Brkfc House forty-eight feet front, two stones
high, a very elegmt piazzi fronting the river, the whole
U l'H. breadth of the house supported with turned pillars, loor
§ ed with cedar plank, commanding an extetifive and P IC "
, * a turefnue view of the. Middle. Bridge, Gray sGa\d«n., the
)E, Seat of Wm. Hamilton, Esq. the 1 urn pike Road and
Canal. The improvements are all new—and the ground
. conveniently divided and inclofcd by new cedar fences.
tTIS For terms apply at No. iji Market-street.
is; which „ „ j?' ' t
terms; FOR
WINE, London particular Wfadeirai 4 years old, c
and friver ; n pij, cS an d hogsheads r
f ' Claret, genuine aid, in cases
lotl'c Grn-, in pipes, from Holland
ns , Earthen Ware, ill crates
Balket Salt, in Kogfneads
Shot, Nos. 6, 7, * and 9
Ear Lead, Kcd and whits dry le%'l
Steel. German arid Riima, ih barrels
Anchor', rabies, junk, btmting, tarpolm canvas,
. Tin litates —An invoice Stationary, by
h 1 TfLOMAS' & JOHN KF.TLAND.
814 § July 19
UNITF.U STATES, >(£ .
IN : ?S I nam?A"S VT HE OTTHOWTY
OP THE UNITED STATES,
Sy WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Marshal of th; Pennfyltania Ciftxiit,—
I aproclamation.
WHii M£REAS she of.the Hinted State*, at
tie fi'rUf■-•Son of the focrtVC to v.'Jt, ca.
! ffie twelfth day of May !alts»aft, MM'«
ft much of an aS, ratified "an «& to efeWt* A«
Judicial fcotsrts of th, , « ®ata4«
iitemateflff.W, of the Civeitji OJurt tor lse RUbiA <4 ■
iWyb*nk, fcall.be Wideni *4- fdr c: ~ r
purpoies, in the fc.!c« isg >TO*d«, to. *> ..
* Fourth Congress o. the United SJttes ■
At the fir* feffiofl, besSP »pd Ketd at the cur Of Pi«ja- .
jLlnhis in" the State of FftmifrtvMlJfc On Monday, tfie
fevei'th'of December, '6&M&U* Mt* «* .
repcal'fo roue* of an aft fctifultd "ap act to
cffabljit the judicial courts of tly:%itea States , asdi
redls that alternate fcEuus of the Taill .e.ikuit court for
the diflrifi of Pennsylvania ft all be hofaen at York
towh; and for other pur;-nfts. « T'. •
4 Se(a I, BE it cnacled by the Stoats and Haute of Re
prefentativei of the tittfed States of America, in Cfijt-
IrcU assembled, That to much of tils filth fetftion of the
" la, intitu'ed "an ad to ehaWilh the JU d*ial courts of
the United States", asdiredts tint alternate lemons ef the
cS'eburt for dfe diftriA of Pennsylvania fell be hold
en' at YorktoWn, Be, and the fame is hereby repelled;
A and that ail the fcMoriJ of the Aid circuit court fell, from
'V and after the faffing Of this ad, be holdet, at the cay of
v- Philadelphia, exccptitig only, When at any fefilon of the
r " fa id court, the judttes/.hefeof felidireft th* next leffion
<f t 0 t, e holden at Yorktown , which they are hereby autho
b<; rized and empowered to do, whenever it shall appear to
th sTa" 11? Aiid be it further ccafted, That all such pro
cess of'the laid court, as may have issued before the pafs
iftff of this aft, and all recognizance's returnable, afid all
fu*s and other proceeding, that Wtte continued to ha
s ■ . feid ciriult court for the PennMvan.a, °n the
eleventh of October next, in Yoif.town, (hall no# he re- ,
turned and Jield continued, -to the fame cofirt, on tiie
ve, fame day, at And to the end' that fu.tor,.
witneflts, add ail others concerned, may have notice: of
ind the alteration hereby made, the Marftial of the fcid dif
trfa is hereby required temake the lame known, by pr«-
ron clamation, on or Uiforethe 6rft day of Ayguft next,
Jonathan Daytoh,
Speaker of tbe House of Rcprefifitatives,
/ @AMU£L CIVEHMt>(tE;
Prefidentof the Sv: ate, pro tempore.
Approved, May the twelfth, 1706,
G f,or g £y\V ashingtGn,
"8 s ' . President of the United Stmts.
Depbfited among the Rolls, in the Oilice bf the bep-i: t
jolls- nieiit b( State,
lo i,. Timothy Pickering,
: t hc ■ Secretary <Jf Statß.
dav IDO HEREBY MAKE KNOWN, that all iueh
sdn process of the slid court as hjis, or may be issued, and .11
City f C V <H , ij'izanees Utui hable at Yvrkt:-** aioreiiid, on the rU
-1 lHe vaitbd*'/ Otloher text, will he returned to the Citcuit cf
I)a ' the United Siates, it the City Hall, iimhe city oi Ihri:.-
P o ' delphia, on Tuesday, the eleventh day of OftaUfir next, at
eleven o'clock iii the forenoon, Ae4 that all iaitt. and other
proceedings that wi re c jntinaed to the said court at . ork
rpirl- toVn, will be held ;iTid cfcr.tinued at the fa.djCirttit
xli Court, at Philadelphia,.on th(c fame day of O4lo
in i be- nejtt, of wfcich all prrfons concertied are deiired to
! one take notice, and.gi.ae their- ..rtendance thereat. - ' .
us It- GIVEN witter my hand, at my Othce, m the Fji.^rict
e and , of Pennsylvania, tbt twenty-seventh day of July,
grant in the year of oui V.ord one thoul'and lcvtii hun
dred and niiiety-fis, and of our lnd«pend«pce the
> twenty-flrft.
intvey WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Marjhal..-
July 27 §lw
; ■ ■' — : " • I
"• Asfhtton and James Hurhphreyt, ,
of the J cO M V E-Y ANCE RS,
O, IS jtvVE removed their OtSce to No. 61, Walnut-flreet,
ler his ncxt but two to the ccfrner of Decfc-fireet,
her on where all INSTkIIMENTS IN WRITING aredjrawn at
fretted a molierate chatge, with care, accuracy and dilfiatch.—
Who- Th Hltewife buy and fell Real Estates upon commif
ve r£ "' lions, and procure Money Upon Loan 011 good security.—
ipenfA- The b u Gnef. of an ATTORNEY AT LAW and NOTA
ICE. ~ y PIJBEIC is also txanfa£led at- the laid office as ulaal
04W fe j. ASSHETON HUMPHREYS,
N.B. Good Notts difconnted.
„j„r JfLt —
Prime Rice.
■ftfrotn One Hundred Tierces of Prime Rice,
Hn i Tuft arrived in the brig Welcome Return, from Savau
-10,6b nah, for sale by FOOTMAN & CO
rom the Aug. 6 . 5
ftVml 1 "Wafliington Canal Lottery,
N • J*
loft or -ITTHEREAS'the- State of Maryland has authorised
Tanua y W the underwritten, to laift twenty-f.x
twohundred, and fifty dollars, for.the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Walhingtoh, from til iPo; ,
tomacto theEaftern Branch Haruour.
d6w. The following is the SCHEME of No. I,
- Viz • I Prize of iO.oco dollars, 20,000 (
lold 1 ditto joflod lopoo
the three 7laftdrawn"> J)000 3J,000
rdens ind Tickets, each J
>ad to the 6 ditto *<*» 6 000 4
onvenient 10 ditto 400 4,000
md ft able, 10 ditto 100 a,OOO
B>o (lories 55 ditto 5 An'o'-,K
u r vvholc ditto 12 69,00#
(j oor . To be raised for the Canal, 26,450
Irdens'the 5»5° . 175, 000
Road and 1x650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
r fences."'' 17500 Tickets, at Ten Ddllars, -
#5" Tfc c Cotnmiffioners have taken tlv: Securities rsl
» 7 t by the aforefaid ad for the pundual payment of
" * the prizes. -
The drawing of this Lottery wul commcnce, without
years old, delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given. . ,
°uc,h prizes -as are not demanded m fixmoir.hsalter th«
drawin/is finifaed, shall be considered as rtJinquiflied for
rfie benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed) KOTJ.EY YOUNG,
1 DANIEL CARROLL, ofO.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
' GLCUGE WALKER,
.. W K ■ M.IKmCAWSON,
c»itva>, THOMAS LAW,
■T.AND. JAMI'.S BARR^'
City of Walhinffow • Fib, 11 • '-iatNBG of the United States.
Treasury Department,, «
Auzujl 8, 1795.
Public Notice is hereby given, ;
IN piirfnande of an a6l of Congreft passed on the 12 th
day of May, 1796, entitled "an providing " for
thefale of the Lands ps the United States, in the territory
north-weft of the river Ohio, and above " the trjonth of
Kentucky river," that the Quarter Towriihips of land
delcribed in the annexed schedule, lying.in the seven rang- •
es ot townlhips whieh wire furveyi-d in purfuancc of an
ordinance of Congress, passed on the twentieth day of
May! in the year one thoufcnd seven hundred and eighty-
Jive, will be exposed for {ale at PUBLIC VENDUE, at
ihe Merchants'Coffee-Houfe in Philadelphia, on the 4th
day of January next, and thenceforward from day today,
until the tenth day of F«bruary ensuing, unless the fatd
quarter townlhips {hall beiVjonsr fold, in the manner and
on the terms and conditions hereinafter mentioned : viz.
tft. The said quarter townlhips (hall be fold to the
highest bidder, but no sale can be made for less than two
dollars per acre of the quantity of land contained in such
quarter townlhip. '
ad. The highest bidder as before mentioned, mud de
posit a s the time of sale, one twentieth part of the pur
chase money, in tfce hands ©f the Treafurcrof the United
States, which will be forfeited if a moiety of thefumbid,
including the said twentieth part, (hall not be paid within
thirty days from the time cf sale.
3d. Upon payment of a moiety of the purchase-mo
ney in the manner beforement'wned, the purehaler will
be entitled to one year's credit for the remaining moiety ;
and (hall receive a certificate defcriuing the quarter town
lhip purchased, and declaring the sum paid on acvount,
the balance remaining due, the time when luch balance
becomes payable, and thit the whole Land therein men
tioned will be forfeited, if the balance is not then
paid ; but if the said balance lhall be duly dil'charged, by
paying the fame to the Treasurer of the United States,
the purchaser orjiis aflignee or other legal representative,
{hall bs entitled to 2 patent for the said land, on his pro
ducing to the Secretary of State a reccipt for fucli balance,
endoifedupon the certificate. But if any purchaser ffiall
make payment of the whole of the purchal'e-money at the
time when the payment of the firft moiety it directed to
be made, he will bs entitled to a dcdu&ion of ten per
•entum on the part for which st credit is authorized to be
given 4 and his patent lhall be immediately ifiued.
GIVEN under rxyhahd at Philadelphia, the day
and year fbwtmentloned.
OLIVEK WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
SCHEDULE
Of Quarter-Tcvenftiipß to be fold at Philadelphia, in pur
suance of the 6th fedtion of an a<ft of Congress passed on
the 18th day of May, 1796.
•
eon C
• Cu c. c
• CU ••• U K.
& '«§ %' s jo
* o jP m Z
r* t- n ra
0 t J} 6 "
■ § 0 r g .2
>5 "ra —
2 a 23
„ -- r 1
a 6 South Eal!| 5120
North East 5120
Squth Weft 5120
North Weft 5 120
20,480
5 5 South East 5120
North East 5120
Soutji Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
- ■ 20,480
7 South East 5120
No?th East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
9 South Enft 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
Nolrt Wed 5120
20,480
it South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5 120
North Weft 5120 j
20,480 t
4 South East $t2Q 1
North East 5120 1
South Weft 120 0
North Weft 5120
— 20,480
6 South East 5120
North Efft 5120
SouthWest 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
8 South East 5120 j t
North East, 5120 i
South' Weft! 5120 > 1
North Weft; 5120
| 20,480 (
10 Soft) East 5120
North Eall j 120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
! —«— 20,480
12 South Eaft 1 j 120 ]
North Eaftj 5120' ;
South Weltj 5120 , <
North Weft 5120
.j — 20,480 1
j ■ 3 South East 4602 1
North East' 4654 1
South Weflj 5120 I
Noiih. Willi 5120
j 19,496 1
5 Soath East 5120 :
North East 5120
SouthWest 5120 1
North Weft 5120 I
20,480
7 Sx)uth East 5120
North East 512 c
'jSoitth Wtft; .5120
iNurth Weft 5120
■ 20,480
9 South East J 120 % I
jNorth East) 20 1
tSeuth Weft 5120 I
'NsrthWeft 1 5120 .1
j " 1 1 20,480 f' 1
___ » —< —-—: <-* mon
1 _ ■ ui n, * ct .f s
a, • . t mill''
So H a <* * ibeii
re .5" -e JO p
" t theii
u. > £ ' J
• ! . fc | 5
k? c .2
~ J Ti u of o
'if— _ P'e <
~r II South Eafts J2o g "' 3
North East 5120 men
South VVcrG 5 120 " Cra
North Weft 5 1 ao r , "
-j 20,.80 ful , r >
13 South East 5120
N'orth East 5120
South Weft SI?C5 I?C si"
North Weft 5. 20 ' , feßk
40489
6 4. South East 4630
4 North East 462 c. e . V ' IS
South w<iS 5 120; }p
North Weft 5.70' £
! 1949° ,
6 South EaR 4730 ' Jr
.. . t- n tnem
North East 4715
Sojtih Weft j 120
North Weft 5120 1 pUrs
19,685 =
8 South East
North East £120
South Weft j 120 "
jNdi'th Weft j 120 'hat
l 20,480 of 1
10 South East 5 120 ' ' ar g
North Eaft'ji2o or d<
South Weft's j 2O
North Wefljj 120 lum
j 20,480 for
12 South East 5120 tha:
Nprth East j 120 fimj
South Weft j 120 pre!
North Well 20 ftan
20480 of 1
14 South Eafl jj2o Tra
North Ea(lji2C as J
South Weft j 120 or-t
North Weft 5 120 abr
20,480 ops
7 3 South Eafl 5120 froi
North Eaftji2o t ed
South Weft j 12c the
North Weft j 120 ortl
'30,480 res;
5 South Eaftjjjo tioi
North Eal Jl2O adi
South Welt y 120 a 1
North Welt y.120 anc
20,480 qui
7 South East y 120 I '
North East j1 20 vet
South Weft JT2O car
North Weft 5 120 dai
20,480 ma
9 c outh East 5120 tht
North East ci 20 th:
South We..fj 120 wa
North Weft 5120 Fr
20,480 fro
*ti [So Ah Euft 5,20 ft!'
North East 5120 cJh
! South Weft j 120
North Weft jl2o roc
20,480 thi
13 South Eafl 5120 far
North Esfi Jl2O ers
South Weft 5120 an
North Weft 5 12o| 1 Jbo
—— 20,480 w:
15 Sooth Eafl Jl2O . . y c
North Eafiyi2e wi
South Wef; 20 lej
Nor.h Well 5120 jul
20,480 cat
N °i'E ni
I'HE quantities of Lands in the several townships be
fore mentioned,arc exclvsfive of the Seflions reserved by
theUnitcdStat.es. The aggregate quantities in the feve- w
ral townships, have been afcertainsdby afiual survey; but tu
the quantities in the quarter town(hip», have been no la
otherwise afcertasned than by calculation. w
www wim T
ton the gazette of the united states. j„
ec
PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
WE are not to suppose that the opinion of the ve
majority bf the people can be holtile to their otvh cf
interefr ;or that this opinion, when known, will be ri;
lightly eftimaled, by their repvefentatives. so
It is not however to be expected, that every aft 01
of the Legislative body is always framed, so as to ar
meet the approbation of the majority at the mo- O
ment. It is often theduty of ihofe appointed, to «.*, fe
ercife their best judgments on behalf of the public, ei
to devise and enadt laws, refpefting which, they fc
mult depend f6r their general acceptance on the T
perception of the people, of tjieir fitnefs, propriety ni
and intrinsic merit, as these (hall appear in their ar
, operation. The eltabliihment of public schools is
a great objedt, which has been repeatedly p;
difcufied in the Lsgiflature ; it hasbeen ably treat- ,th
ed on in the public prints, aad its individual advo \ r
cates are numerOys and refpeftaiile, ; but, to the G
belt of my recollection there arc no data from T
which any decision can be drawn, as 10 I'ettfe of j n
•the majority ofthe citizens of this Commouweilth ar
at large, relative to the fubjedt. a
It is difficult, on any other idea, to "account for hi
the failure of the law, at the last session of the Le- vi
grflature. Surely thole who were opposed to do
ing any thing, and those who lightly gave the bufr- U i
ness liie go by, either entertained an idea that they [ uj
did not coumeraft the sense of the miijority, or 'a<
that the people were indifferent as to the fate of re
the plan. This being the cafe, what is more obvi- c «
oully tlie dirty of flie people than this, tkut they w
Ihould unequivocally expt'efs their minds ? Altho' di
the piocrattiaatioii that has taken placc, will be tt
found to have encteafed the obstacles ; and ah ho' m
the artifices of the unfriendly are hard to be tra- g,
verfcd, yet v?e ought as soon to delpair of the com. m
. , a l i!)t;'l' , rMj | «>^
moii'vcnli, 99 to V' I .' - '' ' . - t !ie peo ple be
cefa'of this molt .mpon-V't b * ~;r i, ar „ e 3 o t
mll ft hejwft to themWves ■; ,nd urfchaje
their duty to the rifiryg generstton. Astbeywrh
,0 pei pe.uat«f the b!e(li»e.s nt a tree government, «
their pofteriw, they onght to be fohcitcus
competent foundation for that purppfc.. T,".
'Let the bull nets be brought home to the bosom fie,
of our civil Fathers. In °rcW ,0 th.s,U the peo- b
nle express, by written reprefentatiOßS to the L
rrifla'ive tody, their wilhes and experftatro'.is. l?t he
memorials b/ptepared in season before the next or
neral election, and signed at all the meetu gv As
there oa.mot rat.onally, be any doubt as to the re- co
fult, it is presumed the aggregate vv.H speak w,th a h
voice that will be heard and attended to. When be,
this is done, there will be no further room for cavrl th;
as to the sense of the people. If however anotnen mt:
fefiion Ihould elapse, and leave undone, what oujjht tor
W fir.ce to have bee.r dstie—then it wtli remain Bi
with those who are in a fit nation to remedy the mc
evils retaking from the omission, to determine what dr<
they are to do. In this cafe, the metropolis lliould he.
set tho example. If the corporation, at the % in- am
stance of Uie majority of the citizer.s, are not au- an.
thorizej to include in the general Tax, an affels- of
ment for the fuppott of public schools, the Le<.if- th.
lature (houIJ be applied to, to pass a law lor that wl
purpose. 1,: \ c 0
THE FAIRS OF LEIPSIC AND FRANKFORT.
[Fr/lm Cogan's Journey.]
'• You will, doubtltfs, fir,tie when you arc told,
'hat. thtfe two fairs are the g'and marts for the sale
of literature. 1 mult alio acquaint you, that a
large ntimber of manufacturers are kept in pay, in
order to multiply thoughts for the fairs. By these " a
indefatigable labourers several thousands of vo
lumes, r.li forts and fizrs, are annually made up
for sale. The pay is generally by measure, rather to
than by weight, as thejawyers are paid with you,
limply by linrs and letters, whatever these may ex
press. However the prices depend in many in- 1
dances upon the nature of the work, or thi; degree
of reputation the manufa£turer may have acquired. '
Translations aie of the lower order, and will not, arl
as lam informed, fetch more than two rix dollars, Ct
or-twe and a half per Iheet. The next ar« small et
abridgments of large works. Then follows the
oppoiite employment, making a large compilation (
from a number of fraaft publications. Sermons us- ' jl
ed formerly to furnifh a small retail trade; but te
these, with treatises on theology according to the u
orthodox fyflem, are much upon the decline. He- av
refy is rilen nearly at par. Philosophical difLrta
tions are also upon the dfcline ; but they (till bear 1
a decent m»rk*t price. General histories are quite tc
a drug. Plays and romances increase in numbers
and value ; and of late the authors of politicalddi- c(
quifitions have conliderAhly taifed their price. _
" You are not to imagine thai a poor author will
venture to trade upon his own foundation. He
cannot wait so many months for his money j nor \
dare he Jo expofehimfelf to the rife and fall of the
market. Mod of them arc engaged and paid by
their principals, who take the whole rifle upon
thetnfelves. An editor of note generally fends a
waggon load of science twice a year Either to
Frankfort or Leiplic, folded as the (heets came
from the press. These are purchased by lefler book
sellers, and distributed ever the country by a third
clsfsof retail venders. 1
" The animal publications at the two fairs a- P
mount to upwards of five thousand volumes ; and *
the number of authors is computed to'be abotitthe z
fa'rne. This is not improbable ; for if your writ- 1
ers of abridgments can turn off three volumes per :
annum, a grave compiler will, on the contrary, la
bour three years at a single volume. A profefied c
writer bf romances may work up about two in one
year; but then your philosophic and metaphyseal d
writers will not be able to digest their fyttems in r
less than three or four years. Thus, by nicely ad
julling and balancing accounts, we may allow that, '
ceteris paribus, every man may supply the commu- I
nity with, tiis volume per annum. !
" As a proof of the zeal and assiduity wirti
■c. which the Germans apply to the futjeft of liteia- '
ut ture, I (hall tranfrnit to you the following particu- I
no lars relative to the conducing of the periodical 1
work, entitled, AU«e>m?inc I.ileratur Zeitung, or 1
— Journal of Geneial Literature, publiflted at jena,.
in the year 1790 ; the number of writers employ- '
ed in tiiat vvoik, including those that died within i 1
the year, amounted to net kfs than three hundred 1
and nine. Of these, one hundred and feveateen
were profeftors in the Germanic and foreigu uoi
he verfities, i.ji ety-fix in high or inferior offices in
vn church and slate, thirteen clergymen, seven libra- 1
be rians of prince's, counts, &c. lixteerr physicians, 1
four doftois of mafic, seven who hsve 110 ptofefli
ft onal charafler. The books reviswed in that work 1
t« amounted to one thousand eight hundred and five,
'o- Of ihefe, one thousand three hundred and ninety- '
V seven were written by German*; four hundred and
ic, eight were Foreign productions; one hundred and
ey seventy.three were publiftied by fellow labourers,
he The coi-efponding members of this literaiy frater
ty nity in different parts of Europe are one hundred
fir and thirteen in number.
is " The Review publiAied at Jena is the princi-
Hy pal, but not the only one. There are several o
*t- .thers by no mean* deficient in merit. Its chief ri
-0 val is the Geltingifdie anxeiu vojigelehrten fachen i. e.
!:e Gotti.igen'i Tidings of learned publications.—
' m These aie puUifhed in numbers, three or four times
of in* the week,-fo ss to fitnife about two hundred
tt' and t;nin a year. This literary journal is upon
a smaller fcaie. than the other. Not mote than fix
or hundred, or"fix hundred and fifty books are re
•e- viewed in it annually, but it is well conducted.
>0- " I have lately seen propolal3 for a new Journal
u,l dcr the title of Annalen des Gecgfnjiteen and Sta
ey i tijlifchen Wijftufchaten, i. e. Annals of Geographi
<>r ! eal and Statistical Science. It is under the di
-01 rettion bf proteffor Zimmerman of Brunfwick.
*1- curding to the plan of this work its chief objedt
ey will relate to geographical, politwal and (latittical
ditquifiuons ; bu: a review of new puMications in
i thc Ger!nan anri Foreign languages will not be o
-10 milted. A liumber ot the literati ate already enga
a- gcd for the undertaking., it is 50 come out in
n. monthly numbers of fix ihceis esch ; fi x numbe.s
A
4
bei-s are. to conftittte a TolB T e. New maps win
be occasionally added, The price ia three dolhn
and a half per volumt,
" 1 have not .heard what degree or encourage,i
ment this undertaking lias leeeived, Notwithftaud- •
ing the profeffors' kno*., abilities in this dep»rtif|
ment, I question whether the fi'.ijfSs will be fu
ficiently popular for a pctiudical publication. It it 4
be continued For years as istjie dcHgn, i fear that
the reader will be obli.- d tu crawl like a fvivtU over
'he face of the Globe, and fed himfelf weatied be
fore he gets half way.
" To he above may be added the following ac
count of publications rxpofed to hie at Lcipfic h
thecmirfe cf'tw years >79° and Their num
ber at the autumnal fair in 1790, was not more
than one thoufaud and fifty-five ;of these 65 were
' mufieal transitions fiom
foreigo languages, particularly from the Xiwltlh.
But at the fair held in the fprtnjr, the number was
more than double, being two thoufond three hun.
dred and forty-eight. In the year 1791, the pub
lications amounted to thvee tmmfand live hundred
and four, exclusive of frhool books, small pamphictr,
and iome works that were'publilhed at theexpenee
of their authors. It is observable, fays my author,
that worksof imagination, and political tlifquifition,
which were formerly the mod scarce, are now he
come the mod popular species of writing.'''
Foreign Intelligence.
PARIS, May 19.
Thuriot, ex member of the late Convention, and
coirnnidhHier of the Executive Diredlory at Rlieims,
has been difmified, and has Gnce fled.
Pache, who was mayor of Paris on the 31ft of
May, and now (lands charged with being an ac
complice in the hte confpirscy, has been arrefleJ;
and the night befoie lail, the membersof afociety
of £xc!ujivc Patriots were taken into cullody in
the lliett Guerin-Boifleau.
Charles Villambre, a native of Ton!, and a mi.
litary man, convided of and of biing
an accomplice tn the late conspiracy, has been cory
demned to death by the criminal tiibunal, andex-
I ecuted in the Place de GtCve.
Drouet hai published an address to the legiflat
! ive body, in jollification of his principle! and co/i
---duft, which affords (Irong proofs against his pre*
tended innocence ; as in this publication thf doc
trine and maxims of the confpir&tors are openly
avowed and defended by him.
Some attempts having been made to carry off
' the conspirators from the Abbaye prison, it is de
. termined to transfer them to the temple.
Dannou is this day to nwke the report of the
coromiffion relative to Drouet's conspiracy.
[ Tranjlatizns from Parts papers for the Daily Jldvtr
(Having early gi«en the accounts of the latelt and
1 most interelting, occuirenees on the continent of
Europe, received by the late arrivals from
Fiance, we have continued our details of other
mifcellancous articles ; from which an idea may
be formed of the interior (iuiation £i the differ
-3 ent powers afFected by the late important events,)
ROME, May r.
j This city has never been in a more critical Guta
tion, it is threatened with the lail misfortunes if
peace is not reflored to Italy, ihe price of pro"
j visions continues to rife daily, (Jie iadutlrious citi
zens of the community are without employment,
the b'ilk commerce which was carried on in the
Ecclefiaflical (late is abfoluie ruined, it hath been
so illy protc&ed that the merchants have Ml ail
1 confidence ; the refignats and notes of ihc holy
father are multiplied and fall in va:ue daily, gold
t and lilvcr have absolutely disappeared, the Irafs
money is alft! feared and felling from 12 o 15 for
, 100. To remedy the fearcity of a Circulating me.
diuro, goveninje'at has frecjusntly forbid, a*d, again
, permitted the:fale;of lilver, the conference of thole
nteafures has been uniformly to increase. the evil.
*. The Apostolic chamber in order to leftrain the
difconte'nted, eonti mes to purclife corn at a fixed
price, and inin themselves in ruining the proprie
a | tors, who cannot dispose of their proviOoi.s a van
£ 8 The theocratic government of Rome.
' worfl of all, and that city will be Mt.rrjy ruined
f n [if some happy evtfnt does not put an end to our
misfortune?.
e . n VENICE, May.2.
There is no government which is better formed
a " than Venice, by events which are about to take
I 9 place ill foreign.coutties, Ihe pu ic m »
B ' for this pui pose employ secret agents. _ 1 his ph-
I cy has contributed to their ■prW.rwtion ? for by
this means th.ey have beer, ficquent yapp •
* dangers which threatened them. M feo" ?a tM
return of the Count de Li c, wr.s now ,
J3 not doubtrd but that the inv-fion of Lombardy
S J was at hand ; and it was thought that t^e,
, d to enter their territories. It is probafcie
even announced that the greater part of the emi
grants at e to be ferlt away. _ under
t 'The principal object of the government under
r ; prcfent circu'tnftancesis to maintain goo uc}l
f tranquility .on the continent, where tlwe I ,
J diiEonte.lt ; for this-purpofe * P ro *«g n f hority
, e8 extraordinary will be appotnte ,wo •
ed will be very extensive, and who w.ll Be aiithori.e
on take any meifures which circum:lta"
H x mand, without consulting any other ■
I" will reside at Verona. V\ UP Wffo
clioice will fall upon S. C. Zac aiy funce
The v««w "■
because its independence nay its J y f .
hi- pf'ds upon the success ot that repu [a
di. natirn noblemen are not nor can >
lC _ French priijciules.
«1 FLORENCE. Way 1. . n( . ai ' ag
in We are not without OB«tapeU
o. the success ot the French, we ''A c( , n
ia- pe6l the neutrality of "he grand pfl jonß
• » 1 * t » t-poW -
in g've the law to In-.y »•« k ' f , fQW ar. |t
eis who are r,i pr.fj!:t it.ihc lwCad
k '
-v - ' _ i.nI of Fr*n«r, #f«n«»e of th- treaty of peace con- ed no i
1 \la m'Tiil w " f > advantageous to
fcmed the deftcro ®f ao etpeoitioa agawft Leg .
hbrTfo the po.pofc of lkoTrfn K up that port - two of
oZI thelen P e m v ( an-> of pofMB-g tfeemfetvc of « ? rd,
she imm-nfc property which tbrEngWh h»ve there, ft* ,
Th' Ertghfl) nave aftcj upon the prin.iple
tt ki« «he property of t,K.n tey I
C0.,1d Mit, without refpectiog the "5 f' J' , hose
the territory of tbe other powers. W, hope the «h,tc
French will not adopt the fi«e principle- h ,
The new governor of inborn, d peiilio J si
«Jw/lfcpto. .hih.!r s .£'£'. Th,
fticw* a daided partiality for tbe E"glifh. -
VtiWJ&'-W *'h
■ >, and not t, fo&r Jf S J
Grand Duke 10 be violate!. L from t
tab, w. 6**> TI
is even fa'd they have > Ens'lilh reffelsof captur
Duke to (hut tlw port agaw.lt the LngUm fr
ft ™
TUESDAY EVENING. Aucpst 9. Th ;
Married. Lid evening, Mr. S * M "™R ao * D! ' l^ l '
Merchant to ft«f* Mart Drihke* both of this city.
From our in Hamburgh. .
Tbe following extract of a letter from a gentleman Brig
of the firft information, though of not fa rccen
a date as-accounts already pubhfhed, contains a
moreconcife andat the fame time more canned -
ed account of the opening of the campaign u. -
It Jy than has hitherto appeared ; ot Shr.
the two vidoriea over the Auftrians, which ap
pear to have decided the fate of Italy.. , In
v Hamburgh, May 2d, 1796 ral ot
" The French began the campaign .with two Steeli
vift-riesover the Audrians, which are not denied, g oo d
though extenuated in the Vienna gazette The l y ret
firft beeiunipe of the campaign seemed difadvan- tej>tu
tageous to the French. They f«t the Auft.ians | Capt
mike tbemfelvea masters of the *¥**"<'' a v * r J to
narrow pas. leading to the Dutchy of Milan.. The A
French seemed to have negktfed to occupy it, and tains
the'Auftrian army advanced the more boldly as the
French remained alraoft quiet ab.ut Genoa and the cord,
diflrift between Sivona and that capital, on the tea Thet
fide The main armv of the Auftiians wentidotvn' body
into the Gennoa country by the way of Ovada Bnd
GampoWdo, driving the small posts of the French M
always befoie them. They advanced near the sea Well
fide on the weft of the city of Genoa. 1 lie French aw j
out posts all were driven towards their main araiy, .equ
whose right wing was leaning itfelf on Voltn near no™
the sea, (6 hour 6 from Genoa ) The Austrian nihT.
General Braul'eu thought to mislead by a falfe at- bow
tack made on the right wing near Voltn confiding rorjre
of 6000 French, on the 10th of March, in order b fh
to mafic his intended attack on the centre. The Iha
French General Buonaparte (a young Corficar of its n
25 years, but a man of great military talents) was lion
aware of the trick, and ordered the right wing un- "
der General Cervdni ti retire in the night by a fort- 111 c
ed march to the centre on the right ground of Ma- wal
doona M Savona. Oi the following day (the IOth) v-ift
early ?t four o'clock Beaulieu attacked with 15,000 you
men all the positions fuppo. tiug the centre of the of 1
French and drove them back. At one in the as the
ternoon he attacked the lad retrenchment on Monte vin;
L"zint). The brigadier Rampon with 1,500 moi
French who in the 'pidft of ,be bitde swore fo_ !ian
lemnly not to'foifake «!»eir pod, defended it so well
that the Auftrians were thrice repulfeg leaving 400
dead and wounded, among them a colonel and ma
ns officers. The commanding general Prouavina
was wounded mortally. On the 12th, in the night, t '" (1
the Frenfth general Laharpe was sent in support of "at
the entrenchment whiHl it was threatened with a
new attack. This was made by the Audrians com- ,he
■ iag down from the heights of Montenotte, in the '
begirininfe with some effect, but loon Laharpc got a" 1
the better. In the mean tim- Buonaparte, Made. lev
na and Befthier, marched to the centre and tbe left jot
wing in the rear of the enemy, when general Mas- | e u
feria took the Audrians already retiring in their left ' *'■
flsnk and routed them entirely ; so that they 16ft
1,500 dead and 2000 prisoners, amongst these, a
colonel, aid de 6amp of general Argentean, and "•
60 officers ; several colours have been lakes. The w
Audrians tvere piiclued the I'iench occupied 1 ;
Carcare Cairo, &c. The enemy was retiiing. r e
This viftoiy has been announced to Ihe National c ";
Convention according to the generals letters from P'
his hea:l-quar'ers, CNrctre. S:me few days after °1
it was confirmed by the emptjroi's court gazette, 1
with the usual extenuations, that the Imperial ar-,. cc
my made a motion backwards to occupy their for- a
iner-pofition.
" The second victory is ft ; H more important. It
was near Millefu'a, on the Genoese territory, more w
to the north. It was on the 14th. The Auftri
ans have 1 l,;oo men (2,500 as them killed,
the others prisoners), atnonglt them general Pui- a '
cera, 20 Hats officeis and many oiUers ; 40 "n- j 1
non, 15 colours, b;fidcs a Rrcat quantity ot nm* J 5
munition, baggage, mules, &c. All these affairs
happened in the mod mountainous country, which j a
accounts fdr the great rtvr.tbcr of prisoners. 1 a
~ l The armies on'the Rhine have announced the , 1
end of the truce, and unhappy Germany is once 1 0
move exposed to destruction by its own Emperor, j c
or rather Miniftei, Pitt and his Ki g. j
" The Piuffians,. Hefiiairt, Hanoveiians and , '
Bruniwickera, arc to fonh an army of obfervatior. j c
in Welbphalia,. surely not intended agsinft the! 1
Fteuck at they are vi£torious ; but only that I J
the king of PrufTia may mske himf'-lf a merit on
the noithv n part of Gertnatiy, which niivv irerns ,
cnti utied to hi* protc&ion, perhaps as fowire Ens- )
peror of Nortlj-Germany."
The schooner Expedition arrived at the Fort, af
tcx a pa{T*ge of to duys ('ogn St. C r o»x.
Lad evening the fh'ip General Washington, capt.
Price, from whi h place he left the 23 d of
June. On the z6'h *?.s blougbt to by a lllip of
18 which pioved to be a tn«<>ri(li cruizer.—
They the ftipi and after two hours de
tention. taking 3 few fmafi articles, and compelling 1
capi. Priee to Dgn 3 declaratj oll of having tece-itf- :
1
v * ' • * -
. % J
.ed on infney, f.sfFered him to prncaed His mate Yeftei
waso»i board the Moor, where he fuv cap?. Pre" 3 un
tice, and the crew of the brig Em«idi«, of Bos
ton, taken 14 days before. He wsainlfrmed thflt M.iroon
two of their frigates were cruizing to the wA- mencOn
«,rd, and had taken 14 Amer.can and Br.tiih vef- thtrfe bl
ft Is It appeared to cSpt. Price, that they took 3y a
none but such as were loaded with gram. Tu ,
A K er,tkman of who was on board the which
Morning Star and SwanwLk, up.n the arrival of Br.tifh
those veflels at New-Caltle, assures us that the pnf- [ to int n
fengei's wtre remarkably he.h.iy,' and (poke in the , to be
highed terms in favor of the conduct of Captains taken p
Steele and Joughin, on the voyage from Ireland.
The (hip Junes, a flag of truce ? commanded by
cairt. Latimer." with near two hundred ciUKiyt Am
the French colonies, failed from this port on 5a- her ptck
tifrdny l»d, bound for Cape Frances : fli« will for am.
at Sandy Hook, and take a number of pallen-jers An onj
irom New York. -r .
The (hip Eliza, capt. Smith of Bodon, was d
' capiured on her pafTage from Bordeaux, by a Br»- On
ti(h friirate, carried into Martinique and condem fliall be
ned fend m
"V'his morning arrived attke Fort, the brig Abigail for the
ftom Jerernie, t TC f
The Ganges andleveral other vessels left Reedy-If-
' land lift Sun.ay morning. S
. I CLSAIED. ,
Ship Columbus, Verrack, Waterford
' Latimer, Cape-Tranoo.s " c '
. Brig Try all, Knox. Hamburg
Nymph, Webb, \ Bourdeaux,^ 8
l Phoenix, Andcrfon, St. ✓ -B,
William Pcntiock, Holliday» St. Croix vA--—
Eliza, Thornton, Bourdeau*
f Shr. Hope, Jacobs, PJilpaniola
John, Coffi:i, Bolton- -yyi,,,;.
In lad evening's Gazette we announced the am
ral of the brig Morning Star, Capt. Robert L. j)
s Steele from Londonderry with 350 paffengeu all in d ; oce{ ;
, gead health. We learn that they have unanimous- £ om „
ely returned their thanks ta capt, Steele for his at-
- lent ion and humanity to them du«ngthcii psffage. loyoo
s Capt. S. fpoketlie Maria from New-York <j onal j
yto Amdetdam, out 10 days—all well. ___
e A letter from New-York cated yederdav. con
d tains the following information, viz. _ 0,. n( ».
Ie " I have jud heard that the Fiench ship Con- ounu '
e cordehas been taken and sent to Halifax by the "
a *Thetis, captain Cochran who was fitqt thro thr
n body and it dangerously wounded.'
d From an EngUJh paper,
h Mr. Fox concludes an addn.f» to the defter* of
-a Weltminider, as follows :—" That 1 have opposed
:h a Wir, uniuft in its principle and ruinous in itscpn- tore
s*. sequences ; that I have endeavoured to prevent 111- tranq
ar novations the constitution, which lend to an- tain.,
in nihf.a.e the rights of the people ; that I have la- »««.
it- boured, to preserve entire, the fecunty which wc n
i 2 formerly enjoyed under the law of treason, as ella- grel»
er b' ihed by tbe iiaiute of Edward tl»e third ; that ceHai
he I have rcfided the repeal of tbe Bill of Rights, >0 m''' a
of its m«d cHernial will be tpattcr of conlola
as lion to me, to the last moment of my life. ; • been
11- " That my efforts in thii gloriwns cause brc, ly ; '
rc- in common with tliofe of abler meo, been iaefftc --one
[a- t.ual, 1 mod sincerely lament j but I trust my cha the s
h) rafter (whatever it may be) will not P.'.ffer either iertc
30 votir judgment, or in that of polterity,
he of my name being seldom, if evrr, found aning 1
as the fnajorititts c.f a Parliament remaikible for hi cceo
lie ving added more to the burthens, and taken away
00 more from the rights of the fobjeA' than any Its
so- liament recorded in the annals ot ourhilloiy. 'i., al
qq From the Mercury.—Bojlon, Au«uj! Z. I
n „ presibent's s.pe?.ches, Sic. neg
During the lad week was publillied, a volume cep
ht containing the speeches of the President to the Se- app
0 f nate and House of Reprelentatives of Congress,
, a fiiiee the establishment of the federal government ; van
, m . the adireffes delivered to him on his firft appoint- tre;
t l le raent as chief magidrate of the Union, with his 1
„ ot answers; his circular litter to the governors of the Sai
jjjV. several dates, and his farewell orders to the arm its dre
] c fj of America, it i* a neat, compact book, !compil- ten
!ed and arranged with much judgment. It is an wh
)cf ; I additional record of patriotic and moral wh
],fen'tinWtStl of the illuftiious character who presides eve
a over our Let every one possess himfelf
and a «°py. and Fedetalid Would eel
■fh^' with for no more thorough refutation of any at- co:
.jj.-'d peiV.ons hi« ebarafter may receive, ihan a recur- an
rencc to its pages would enfme. Let the timid, foi
ioi'ia'l doubting Republican, whenever the clonds of fuf- |wc
from picion overshadow his confidence in Washington, _
a ( ter open the volume now offered to the public—and
the full ray of truth will irradiate hij mind, and
11 r confirm his faith in ku polhical dkliverek
■ . # Di
. f nr and SUSTAINER. r
1 WEST INDIA INTELLIGENCE.
Xt i By an arrival yptterday from Cape-'Nichola Mole, "
mo , t . we learn, that the Quebec, and another frigate ar- J
,l} r j_ rived there the 15111 July. Tiiey failed from Bar- "i
Died badoes with five large transport ships, with troops ai
Pui'i and military stores, under theii convoy, bound to ,e
can . she Mole ; but off Cap«-F>ancois they were chafed -
am- b y ,hret French 74 gun Alps,and were obliged, to
flairs leave their convoy to the 1' renob, who .took them
/h ; ch | all, and carried them into the Cape.—Tbt sickness
| at the Mole, exceeds its usual tnortali
d ihe ]ty > ,rrom 5° to 60 d >' A " e *pe aa, ' oii „
OlPte ' of the reduttion of the islands isdefpaired of, and
, eror | even an attack from the Brigands is apprcheAd>af
' i botli at the Mole and at Port-au-Prince. The
1 an< 3l Bri.ith troftps had evacuated Bompard, and return-
rat ; or jcd into the Mole. Both the tiking and holding (
,he i this place, even for the short time tbey held it, wa*.
tj iat I attended with great loss to the English.—l here
ri t on was no pressing of Amertcaiis while ouv informant 1
teems was at lhe Mole ; but h* saw fevetal indances of
. jv m . their treating th< m with much refpeft and civility.
There is no sale for American produce. (
.rt, as- HALIFAX, July 9.
Monday arrived the Danish brig Dover, Capt.
, capt. filocum, sent in by his Majedy's fliip Afilftance.
:3d of Thursday arrived a Dar.ilh (hip, f:nt in for cxa
f»i|> of minatioii by his Majedy's fliips Affiftince and Rai
ie r.— foil. July 13-
rs de- Thursday arrived an American brig from St.
pelling 1 Domingo, prize to hi 3 majeily's (llip I'levoyantC,
rccei#-: Capt, Wemyfs. " v
-•\
Yeftcrdfty his majesty's (hip Dover, an old 44 . , FAI
» un (hio, and ihe <Mp Mary, having on board the J *ov
remainder of the 96th regiment, and about 500 . Mica -He
Maroon negroes, from Jamaica, with two gentle- days paR,
men cotnmil&trted to superintend the fett)cment.of %to xb
. thofc blocks in this province. 1 ihip an :
Bv a cer.tle.-n4i) of the 96th, and who is lately cope, a'
from 8:j Domingo, we leant, that the ¥i«n<h ftips Jje pm
• which arrived there, ate blocked up by a fupenor four othc
f British f!.et, who were also entiling 10 a fiction V'
.I to intercept another JFicneh fleet, which was fatd On I
e to be expt&d.—No material operations had lately Sally, L
s I taken plf|p that to r
y From late V -a iff I
if A modern dame.Judling her hrlF-born
1- he. pocket Mt t ls onlefledly one of the befl fubjefls
11' far a maternal caricature. '
s An original letter fiom the Chief Magillratc of a tion lo u
cfcrtain Corporation.
DCF) bt?
IS DEAR SIR, 1 f °
i- On MoiKjay next 1 am. he made a mare, and P i
» (hall be much obliged to you if so be as you will
fend me d<Wn by the coach some provifionsfetting ab'* i
iil f or Oi-ce jon, as lamtoax my bloiher the old things,
Mate and the rell of the bench., cnran » '
f " Answer, by a Wag, into whose hands it ffll, condu.
SIR
j In obed'iencetoyour order, I have sent you per garetht
coach, two bufhcls of the befl oats ; and, as you ™" ne l<
ate to treat tltc old Mare, have added some bran to
make a inalh. , , i l "'°f
r Eiiitanh by a learned Common Councilman, <lc\ » on Icil
thc~prcit?Tit cluet magittratc of the met.ro-B bitams
fe^*' re H«s WILLIAM CURTIS, our late jolly Lord- \
3 Mayor, " t J
30 Who lias left this here world, and 13 gone to that ticrt Ly '
Lately died, the WorOiipful George Hams L- —=
L. D. of Doctors Commons, Chancellor ef the
Jn dioceses of Du.ham, Hereford, and Llandaff, and
jf ' Commiffaty of Hertfordlhite, and Surry :
"* he has .left 46,0001. to St. George's hofoitil.
l e - io.oool. to the Lying-in hospital, and very liberal
'k donations to fevePa! other cha»ities.
limirrlrMlWl l- A'>g
>B" NEWBURYPORT, August 2.
>n Sunday brig Tryal, Capt. Samuel Chandler, atn-
K. ved here, 59 days from Liverpool. By him we Am
are favored with Englilh papers to May 30, from
whith we make the followiug extradi.
AUg.
>(} f LONDON, May 23.
fed The examination oi Drouet is carrying on he- p
po- fore the commiflion of frven. Paris is not yet /\ ,
in. tranquil, the partizans of the conspiracy still enter- t he pri
an- tainii'g some hopes of carrying their plan into el
la- fe&. * io °
v -l The Duke of Parma, alarmed at thorapid pro- <
U a gre f s 6f,the French, has solicited and obtained a
hat cessation ot arms, but on Conditions the mod hu
jq to himfelf. ♦ —
Ola- A number of French troops, it appears, have (^arj
been detached from the army of the Rhine to lta-
Bve, ly > while the Emigrant Corps under the Prir.cc o f
c ' Conde been augmented to 15,000 men, by
:ha the accession of a confideratile body of French.de- t ; OBj
■ r i > IVrisrs. l|
yttn, Gfn Reks, the commander sf an Imperial corps LegM
( ng- i' l the Brifgan, is gone to Italy, and has been fuc
' Js'j cceded by Gen. Furftenberg.
ITav A letter from Elfineur, of the 14th inft. announ-
p ar . cts a declaration of war by the Dey of Algiers,
arrainft Denmark.
May 24.
Peace is said, by the Parisian Journalists, to be
negotiating in layout of all the Slates of Italy, ex
lume cepiing those belonging to the house of Aufttia. It
s Se- appears that even the Pope will not be excepted.
rrefs, The treaty with th« king of Naples is already ad
lent ; van. ed. One of his agents is arrived at Pans, to
oint- treat with the Direftvy.
1 liis When the Treaty concluded with the king ot
f the Sardinia was submitted tc the council of Five Hun- I
rmies dred, some of the members remarked, that the
mpil- terms were too degrading for a conquered Prince,
is an who submitted to the terms imposed on him, and
moral who was (plainly intitled to that refpeft which is
elides ever due to misfortune. —
imfelf In the fitting of the 19th .inft. a report of the
.vould celebrated Abbe Sie.yes was read to the Council,
iy as- containing the tlrongefl threats against England,
recur- and exhorting the Government to turn the whole
timid, force of the Republic, and to direct the wa© c
>f fuf- I weight of their vengeance against her. D
3tos", — win Tj-n-'iaag. ■■ r—
-and NEW-YORK, August 6. r
I'erek Capuii. Flyn, in a brig from Philadelphia, was ,
plundered by a French boat, and carried into Leo
cane ; one of hi* men died in conference of wounds (
"Mole received ftom the Frenchmen. A reward of $0 {
atf ' Toes was offered for every American velfel into Le- No
r oganc. The RacHel was boarded both by Englilh :
troops autl French privateers, who examined and permit
iund to ted lier to P rdceed - Nc
chafed r> — 1 fuiatammmm —
ged.to 'BY THIS DAY'S MAILS. f
_them M
i'toef* . ALBANY, August 1. . U
nortali- pfter Coh> f(q- of Conn<-aicutt, late fuperm- N
tendam of the maaufaftory in Je.fey, we are told,
, ' j , ! lias an important appointment i» the Canal eompa- .
nies of this (late—he arrived in the city last evening. N
It is reported that Lieutenant Governor Simcoe
{I*!*' of Upper Canada, and Lord Dorcheller Governor
holding Ccne 7 al of his Britannic Majcft/s pofleffions in
I_a!t V r Ameriea » have been reccntl y ltcalkd trom thcir
L ht 'l pefitive governments. -
.ormant V b NEW . Y ORK, August 8.
nces of THE FAIR AMERICAN.
Cl¥lhty ' h appears on further enquiiies which have been
made at Bolton, bv the friends of the owne.s of
that fuip at this place, that the reports of her be
ing 101 l on tlie Goodwin Sands are not well toin
■, .Capt. dsa—that (he was a£lually seen bearing away sot (
ia?ce. North-Seas, aDd not llranded as formerly menti
fot exa- ontd _ The'coniradiaion, at any rate, leads us
ndRRa- t0 f, o p e that a different fate has awaited this vefkl ; ,
and that ihe mivy yet arrive in tolerable feafen.
:om St. Arrived at this Fort, brig Sucfefs, Wallace, Savan
voyante, nab Harriotßog<ca, Januica"; Dtug it,
Rob: r.san, Port-mi-Priute.
«. ■ • '
" ' ' ' *V' •' V • • " v<-
FAYETTEVILLE (N.C.) July 30, .
I T-.vo valuable ptiies of the hnmeward bound Ja- \
maica :fleet, [were ffent into Wilciington a lew \
I days j.stt, by a small privateer fvhoßn»r, beloi.g
---j f-ig to the Republic of France ; the priies, W
| ihip and S brig, were laden with fitg'ar, rll
coffee, and aiee.limateS at 100,oOa do!!nt» vmtf?.' I
Tilt privateer, we understand, had also captured /
four other prizes hefoie she fell in with the above./
GEORGETOWN (S. C.) July 19.
On Tliurfday the 14th inlt. arrived he>e the brig S? )
Sally, Capt. Gidney, after a of days
from Lame, with 146 paffengvs. ' *
TO TH C INHABITANTS OF GEURGETOWS.
Fcliow-Citivent, j _
BEING appointed by the pariic'ular dtfire of
itbe whole.of the passengers of the brig Si'Jy, to
Fteturn ycu out fineete thsr.ks lt*f "yonr kind atten
f tion to us, fuice we arrived on yoar hoipitable fhors
I now, thiough the medium of your newspa
per, beg leave to make known our sentiments: be
-1 ing, pieviotis to our arrival, in a ft<JVving condition
1 for nearly a month, our lituation was truly deplor
r able ; but that Being, who orders and diredh all
j things, threw the humane and friendly Capt. Co
chran, of tit* Hate revenue cutter, in our way, who
conduced us in lafe'y to the land of liberty.
Having icfided many years in South-Carolina, I
r gave the passengers 9 defcripiion of the customs and
a manners of the people whom fhey intended to re
-0 fide antongft : but happy sm Ito have it in ray pow- v
er to make known to the woild, that my dekrip
■l' tion fell far fhott of the liberal public spirited inha
bitauls of Georgetown.
For feif, and felW-paffengers,
1. I I am your much ohliged,
J and humble fervanr,
rj PvOBERT STEWART.
Salt Petre.
2 A few tons of excellent
,1 # TRE*
a j FOR SALE BY
Samuel Breck, jun.
A*ag. 9. e<*6 . Rol*'s Wharf.
ri . Bank Stock.
xe A number of Shares of the Stock of the Bank as :h®
im Ufiited States for fa J p.
Enquire of th«Cu%ierof t|ie said BanK
9 1 -
Wanted,
e a Partner wi'.h a fmali ctpital to rtnite in the bufinef*
fCI f\- of a Miii and Diftillerj in Virginia. Inquire of /
er ' the' Printer. Aug. 9 § IV
e f. — '
200 Boxes, of iz Large Quart Bottles each, of
ro Sweet FloPvEnce Oil
' 3 FO* SALE,
■ Ul Aug. 9 it Enquire to E. R. City Tavern.
ave Cargo of the ftiip Union Fratema,
from Leghorn.
1 fAN Friday next, at jo o'clock in the morning, *11
"'V ( J MslTrs. Rofs & Simfon's wharf, will be fold by aue
- - " tion, (and eoorinuH from day to day, 'till the whole is
fold) the cargo of the Venetian ship-Union Fi atera, from
jrps Leghorn, coniifting of the following r.nicies.
f uc . Florence Oil in caf«s on 12 bottles, andfiaflts of 50
Castile Sap in ca:'cs
Tallow Candles
nln " Anchovies
iers , Capers
Olives
Juniper Berries in bales
o be Manna, F'eakey
cx . Ditto, in forts
1. Almonds
Pertr.efan Cheese
French Claret, In calks
f a Ditto, in bottles
is, to Twine
Hair-Powder
<r of Pomatum.
3un- The condifions of Tale will be—all sums tinder 5001.
the to be paid in calh : from joo to 100 dollars in approved
notes at 60 days: from 1000 dollars cpwards, in ap
'nC6 j proved endorsed notes at 90 and 110 days.
. Edward Fox, Au&ioneer.
:h " A n a
Atiguft 9 $
On Wednesday next,
, At 7 o'clock in the evening,
u r WILL BE SOLD BY AUCTION, at t the Coffee-
House, the following
Building Lots, in the City.
t No. 1. A Lot on the north fiie of Filbert-street, ac the
diftrnce of about 180 feet from the North-Weft cor
nar of Tenth and Fiibart street, and extending north
i, was wardly 140 feet, to where an 18 feet alley is intended
( co . to br opened.
J No. 4. A lot weft of and adjotaing lot Ne. I, 20 feet
rounds fronton Filbert-street, and extending 140 fact, to the
°- 5° said intended alley.
o Le- No. j. A lot*weft of and adjoining No. *, and of the
Inalifh fame dinrienfxors. . 1
lermit- No, 4. A lot xeft of and adjoining No. 3, aad of the
fame dimensions.
No 5. A lot weft of and adjoining No. 4, and of the
— fame dimensions.
No. 6. A capital lot, on the north-well earner of Tenth
'• and Filbert .streets, being 20 feet on Tenth and 100 feet
on Filbert-street.
•fco. 7. A lot r.' th of and adjoining No. 6, and of the
fame dimensions
1, " No 3, 9 & 10. Three lots, north of and adjoining No.
re told, elc h 20 feet, making 6a leet lront on 1 enth-Jlrsst,
eompa- and 140 feet deep to the said intended alley.
veiling. No.ll. A lot north of and adjoining No.-4 0, having 23
Simcoc feet front en Tenth-ftre«, and 140- feet depth f the 4
nvcrnnr intended alley. ... , r ,
No. it. A lot north of and adjoining No. 11, and of the
l°ns in fame (j rnenlions.
hcir,tf - Edward Fox, Aud r.
Aug- 9-
, Plans of the city of Philadelphia,
nf Including theNorthirn L»S»f TiEsan4
tL u SOUT HWAR K i
her he- Publilhed, and fold hi *
■11 faun- BENJAMIN DAVIES,
wa x '•/, No. 68, High street,
ymenti- (Price one dollar.)
leads us THIS plan is *6 inches fqnare, and has been en
s veflel ; graved by one of the firft artists In the city, from a ists
i»n. and accurate survey. Purchafero are entitled to a pam
■, Savin- phlet with each plan, givin?" some account of tl.«
Delight, city, its population, trade, goverainei*, &c.
July 19 t» & 1 ..freaiury of the United States. S:
~\J OTlCfc is hereby to ail per Tons who arc or p| ic Car«
may be Creditors of the United States, tor ar.y fun.s
Ci th" Funded Debt, or Stock, faring a pnftnt interefi of fix
per c i turr:per anxum. \ Lit
id, That pursuant to an A& of Congreli passed on the £2*
*Bth day of April, 1796, in titled an aft in addition to an
intituled "An act malcing further proviiiOix tor the * m,nr
of pablic cradit, and tor the redemption of the
public debt," the faiddebt or ftockwillbe reiniburfedand
in manner following, to wit. " First, by dividends Ji
4< to be made on the lait days of March, June and l n j
u ber for the present year, and from the year onethotiland
seven hundred and nrtnety-feveii, to the year Ane thou
" sand eight hundred & eighteen inchifive, at the rate o.
«Ie and one half per centum upon the original capital. J
" Secondly, by dividends to be made ob the last. day of /June e
(t December for the present ~year, aad from the year one ,
'• thousand seven hundred and Einety-feven, to the year
one thousand eight hundred and (eventecn incluiiv«, at
Si the rate of three and one half per centum upon the or:-
t£ srrnal capital; and by a dividend to be ma eon the lalt tron ,
<si day of December, in the year one thou find eight hun- £ rom g u
dred.and eighteen, of such furrr, as will be then ace- cat i ou
quate, according to the contrad, for the final rcdemp
t*qn of th said dock." , his prop
2d. All diftindion between payments on account of r
Ifrterefl and Principal being thus abolished by the eftabiifh
nient of the permanent ruie of reimburfemenfc abov« de- .
scribed, it has becoaie necessary to vary accerdingly the tw , - c?a ,
powers of attorney for receiving dividends ; th- public - go ]
creditors will therefore observe that the following form p^p ers
is for all powers of attorney which may be coir %rc
granted after the due promulgation ot this notice, viz. -
KNOW ALL MEN BT THESE PRESENTS, that ,
2 ... tn the Del
io makecorjlitule and appoint k is hi#
my true and lawful At- » * *
iomey,for me, andm my to receive the dividends ivb cb are> j an *
tr Jball be payable actor ding to laiv, on the (hej e deferring the | excec( j
flock) /landing in my name in the books of (here describing tuel - ccnt
'books of the Treasury or the Cojnmifliorjer of Loans,® aba
where thp flock is credited) from (here infect the com "'^ ( j < -p
mencement and expiration of time for which the p6wer of
attorney is to continue) withpewer also amattorney or attor-
tties under him, for that purfcefe to make and fubjlitute, and to do aU
lawful aSls requtfitefor effeßing tbepunifes, hereby ratifying and a(
confirming all that my said Attorney or bis fubjlitute r Jball lawful- j
ly do, by virtue hereof. ? pers n<
In WiUiefs hereof, I have hereunto set my Hand and Sea, the
day of in the year
Seeled and Delivered AU g
in prefenee of t - ' '
BE I T KNOIVN, that on the day of
before meperfanally came CpT;
ivitbin named and acknowledged. the above letter cf attorney to be
bis aft and deed.
In tejlimony uohereof I have hereunto fit my Hand and ajjix'
ed . Seal tie day an.Jfar left afar cf aid.
Given under my Hand at Philadelphia, thistwen- A
tieth day of July 1796, pnrfuant to diredions a^cl
from the Secretary of the Treasury.
SAMUEL MEREDITH,
Ire afar er of the United States.
July 23* -w&s t I J.
War-Office of the United States,
May 4th, 1796.
THE following Rules, 'explanatory of those publifhod
the 15th February, 1789, are to be observed by all
persons entitled to Lands, in purfucHte of resolves of
Congress. .
Every certificate Bf the acknowledgment <}f a deed or
pot/eras attorney, either before a notary public of other >
magistrate, mud, in addition to what is usual, set forth i'
that the pgrfon miking the acknowledgment is known to
the notary or other magistrate ; for which jiurpofe words I6j
of the following import mud be inserted in-the certificate. '3ii
11 And I do moreover certify that the faia A B making
this acknowledgment has been for perfcoally 50,
known to me." , ' ~
If the notary oT other magift;ate has reason to believ« N.
/ "that he is the person he himfelf to be, he wil Tick
also certify it.
Andifthe proof be made by a witnefs-jrwunefles,h<; or Ai
the*'mud swear to some general dateof their knowledge of or pi
him, which matter mud be set forth in the certificate; and anyi
the notary public, or other magistrate, before whom t_£ T
acknowledgmen*. is made, nuft also set forth that the wit- v ate
net« or witnefles has or have been for opwards.of Tw
- perinnally known to him. fron
If a jufticc of the peace is employed, the clerk of the it i -
court ot the corporation or county mud, certify that such as fc
person i» a judice of the peace of th- county or corpora- ther
tion as the cafe may be, and that full faith is due to bi« the :
ads as such. JAMES M'HENRY, An
Secretary of War the
May n. ■' iSwjin will
, — Uni
INFORMATION J
IS given daily of the drawing sf tbe WASHINGTON afte
LOtTERY, at the OSiee nar
No. 147 Chtfnut Jlreit, dra
between Fourth and Filth ftrcats. Also, where Tickets the
may yet be had. Aug. 5. e» the
gy The Ninth day's drawing -is arrrred. ing
— I » •
« Samuel Richardet,
RESPECT Fl/LLY informs the Gentlemen'
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEE HOUSE in the g'
city of Thiladelr hia: . J .
The Subscription Room will be fumifned with all the a
daily papers published in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos- o e J
ton, Baltimore, together with thofeof the principal com- | n '
mercial eitUs of Europe—They will be regularly filed J"
«nd noue permitted to be taken away on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, J-ilics, Ice Creams, and a variety
of Frcnch Liquors; together with the ul'ual refrelhmetits, » a
will at all times be procured at the bar. dr
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with c *
the thoiced of Wine?, Spirituous Liquors, and the mod th
approved Milt Liquors from London and other breweries.
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and earliest
produdtions of the Season. V
Larce and small Fa'rties, or llngle Gentlemen, may be ol
accommodated with Breakfads, Dinner, or Suppers, at c
hours mod convenient to themselves—a cold Collation is
regularly k«pt for sonveniency, the Bill of Fare to be had
at thG bar.
; The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifced, aud
the utrnoft attention paid to cleanliness, and ever/ other (
* Svmdei. RkhaKßEt will behippyto recriv*-, and n
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
lsrje; and with gratitude fer their fcvo'urs, he pledges ;
himfelf that nothing on his part lhall be wanting to pre- {
serve that patronage which he has been so dfllinguifa- (
in°4y honored. . <
Piuladcipliia, April I£. co -
Insurance camp, qfthe slate of
Psnnfylvania.
The declared a. dividend of Citeen dol
lars on each •> rc of the capital of farid company, for the
lafi sxmowtu which will be paid to- the ftockhoiders or
theii legal reprcftntaaves on every day' after the loth
i«ftant. _
S. W. Fijher,
Secretary.
Augnft «. dl<M -
Sales of India Goods. ]
The CirjOif tiielhip Ganges, capt."l'iss«J'r tom Gai * 'ijo q
cptta and Bengal, - i©o d
CDNeiSTINO OF. 300
\ Ljttre and general assortment of Bengal »ncMadi"S
A COTTON and SILK GOODS. 4QO p
ai»V)NG which ARE ,
A variety jine worked and plain Mujins,
t * Dorcas, Alio,
i ' J Quantity of Si!§ar,^
la boxes aiid bags—and BLACK. fOR r
1 For Sale by r o if
f •-- flings t!f Francis, eentfron
. - Nt>.'2l Penn "Street. 1
f /]nne 8 . * ' , ' t ,
The New VV orld.
1 SAMUEL If. SMITH, 59
J TNFORMS the public, that encouraged by a libera, pa- JO ~
1 tronatre. and in compliance with numerous nequelts 2000
" from Subfcr'ibers, he has determined to anticipate the pu _ 5
iication of The New World, the fird wimbfr will ap-
pear on Monday, the 15th Augud. 1 hose who ha,vt seen p.
r his proposals are fuiJ'.ciently acquainted with the plan ana 401 g j;
5 terms on which it is designed to conduit this OwW
For"theinformation of those persons whoai * not lcl g l „ r ' '63?0 T
C " ed, it is necefiary Co observe, that it.vynlhs publilh a By OI
twice a day, in the morring unc\ evening ; that t..e P r "-- in gUf e l
10 is only Eight Dollars, being the fame with that of newt- frfon j
papers printed but once a day ; and taat its } -■-** 0 foregoir
com «rehenfive and liberal. . to refun
£$• The Publisher offers a liberal compensation to any {
"" perion well oaadfiei to a cotreft and full report of - n tfasl
the Debates of the Federal and State Lcgiil.ituiW, wfcoh rhe ,
st is his intention to publ-ih in the New \v orld.
U ~ f »* will be ttifeiied, frgmtlie appear- n
''' fanceof the firft -number until further notice, when not f()Uth &
* J exceedi»g * square, for forty cepts for the fird, an 11 et9 ma j
e l "ty cents lor every fubfeq-ietlt insertion ; and a conlWera- Dc _ tc
ns 'l ble abatement will' be made when they are deadily lnlert
m" led. Those gentlemen who have expressed their intention
, of fending Advertifcments, as well as those who have such j
°7, an intention without having eij.reffed it, are ir. crnied
, that the paper of Monday, Augud 15, wili be open f»r j
their adnnllioi; until the evening of" Saturday preceding. |
N. B. It isearn'eftly reqaeiled that all subscription-pa- 1
pers not yet returned, may be font to the printer-hetcue
' the day of publication. j,
A faithful Prefamm wanted. 1
Aug. 6 eot s. fth j
' Ut) ot W alhington.
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11,
FOR THE IMPRWLMEMT Of THE
F*- FEDERAL CITY. with,
■en- A magnificent ) 20,000 dollars, &) <o.ooa n ,
[ ons dwelling-house, 5 CJ fh 30,000, are ) JJy X
1 ditto ij.ooo & cash 25,000 40,000 £s'c
1 ditto 15,000 & cafhj;j,ooo 30,000 *
/. 1 ditto 10,000 & cash 10,000 '20,000 a(r( j (
J. 1 ditto 5,000 & calh 5,000 10,000 tl ,i rat
r ditto 5,000 & cash 5,«oo 10,000 "
1 t ash prrzeof 10,000 "
2 do. 5,000 each, are, « 10,000 "11
5. 1,000 - - 10,000 the j
20 do. 500 - - 10,000
a , 00 do. 100 - - jß,oco cour
*ot 200 do. 50 - - io.^ oo revie
lor 400 do. 25 - - 10,000 cQuii
.u,.. 1,000 do. 20 - 20,000
orth 15.000 do. 10 - - »5«,©00 or . a
er n
rn to /
ords 16,739 Prizes. n*>"
cate. -3Ji26i Rlanks.
king r- -
sally 50,000 Ticketj, at Eight Dellars, 400,000 •
liev« N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity of "y7*c
i wil Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars svill be the last drawn jf
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but on t : watt
he or And approved notes, securing payment in either money y,
ge of or prizes, in ten days after drawing, will be received for w he
; and any number not tefs than ,v> tickets. ai
[i t_£ This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen ef the pri-
: wit- *ate buildings to be ereifed in the City of Washington—
Two beautiful designs arc already feleded for the entire
fronts on two-os the public squares; from these prawings
if the it i 5 pr'opofed to ereol two centre and four corner buildings,
such as soon erf possible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
pora- them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in P
0 his the manherdefcribed in the fchemc for the Hotel Lottery.
, A nett deduction of five per ceOt. will be made to. defray
ar the necessary expenses of printing, &c. and the surplus
3m will be made a part of the fund intended for the National —
University, to be erefled within the.eity of Washington. .
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
fold off.—The money prizes will Repayable in thirty days
iTON after it is finifhad ; and any prizes for which fortunate j
numbers aie not produced within twelve months after the . ,
drawing is closed, are to be confideredas given towards ■!_
'ickets the fun J for the University ; it being determined to fettle
eo the whole business in a year from the ending of the draw
ing, and to take up the bonds given.as security.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of theorizes, Tl
are held by the Prcfident and two Diredwrs of the Bank A
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a the
lemcn' mount of the lottery. T
CITY The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of *Kc
in the the 'ate Commissioners afiided in the management of the be.
Hotel Lottery are requeded to undertake this arduous tafls to
all the 3 fec'ond time onT>ehalf of the public ; a fufticient uum- 11a
c Bos- ber of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the in
>1 com- f™ n^s t0 a National University and the other federal ob- Iwi
iy filed jetfts may continue to favor the design. Pi
u By accounts received from the different parts of the 0>
variety Continent as well as from -Europe, where the tickets th
lments have heen sent for sale, the public are afTured that the be
' drawing will speedily commenae, and that the care and di
:d with cawtion unavoidably necessary to insure a fafe disposal of
le mod th# tickets, has rendered the fhor fufper.fiou indifpenf'able. re
:weries. SAMUEL BLODGET. ri
carlied .§* Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ;of S|
James Wed &Co. Baltimore; of Peter Gilnian, Bodon ;
may be °f John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wulls, b
pers, at Cooper's Ferry. eo ?
lation is y U K SAL £~ <f
had ver y Valuable Estate, si
bed, and A LLED TIV IT TEN}I AM, fiftiate in tfc- "
r," at-.er township of Upper Derby, and county of Delaware,
7 1-2 miles from Phiiad Iphia, and half a mile frotii the \
• lsi' 3 new Wedern road; containing 230 acres of excellent land,
-mic at 0 f w hich are good watered meadow, 90 of prime WQod
pieages and the reft arable of the firft quality. There are
K, to P 1 *" on thepremifesagoodtwo dory brick house, with 4 rootns '
tinguifa- Qn a fl o j r) a6d cellars under the whole, with a pump-well '
of excellent water in frost-; a large frame bain, dablcs, '
40 ard other convenient buildings; a smoke-house and done, '
spring-house ; tw« good apple orchards, and one of peach
es. The fields are all in clover, except those immediately
under tillage, and are so laid out as to have.the advantage
of watee in each of them, which renders it peculiarly con
venient for grazing.
:tcen dol- The situation andhealthy, and from the high
f, for the cultivation of the land, ihe good neighbourhood, and the
iciders or vicinity to the city, it is very suitable for s gentleman's
th* loth country feat-
The foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Harman,
sg r deceaicd, and offered for sale by
tretary. Mordacai Lewis,
diet. o<S\. 9. co.J Surviving Executor.
~ , r- • dedu-ffcion
•» Fcr Uh by tr.i übKnu.ei*,•. dit ;, a nth
in :'tNN-s "' s£t, mediately
'130 quarter Cht:fts f.etb H>.«! T«S Give
ditto do. fWh Sm.ci.png Tu; - >' £
3oaJ}.iXis fc-.JM, containing fmail tea -
pieces;
40= ok*?«d*no,* f ra ncU. Schduh
January _ 30 , ■ ''■■■*—■ - of tow
Lottery „fiu
Ltt *4 - t&ssnss % I
I Prize of 5 co ° >-«
1 . I3QO 1000
i . 500 500 o
' • 100 «*» I
5 2000 —
£ 50 4950 ~ xft
- 2 5 i° a 0 Ift '
•s TO 10,000 a 8
2,0 GO . ,
r X.aft drawn numbers of jooo dollars each, i.ooo 29
1- ; 30
« 233 a Priz.es. . * Ms ° 34
4018 Blanks. ,/ 35 a 3^
r - . — ad
6,50 Tickets at Siren Dollars each, n 4 tr£° 19
Bv order of the Directors oi the Society for efUbhlh- ao
f ineUfefulManufaitures, the fupcrintepiwus of the .at- 2I
erion Lottcryhive reqnefted tl»e Managers to oi.or tne
)e foregoing Scheme to the pubjit, and have dire&cd then.
to refund the money to thoft penoas who .iave phr chafed lsaj
\ ;,i the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets lg
in this Lottery. . , . :t , ; 29
3Ji . rhe lottery has a&ually commenced' V.rawing, and wii
A lift of and Prizes
r " may be fcen at (Sir pffice ol William Blackburn, Ko. 64 J -J
ot south Second ilreet, who will give information where tici-
n " ets may be procured.
' a ' Doted this 17th day of June, 1796. »
»- j. N CUMMING, ' 7 10
JACOB R. HARDENEEg.G,>hUmgtn. *7
c! | JONATHAN RHEA, ) 3":
s*l j-««« !L
U J ust Published, 11
* e 1 BY THOMAS DOBSON, stl
1 At the Stone Ifottfe, A'i- 51 South Scctmd Street, 6
i neatly printed in one volume quarto, price lix
dollars the fine paper, tit five doliais the com
,. mom JJ.
The Four Gospels, *)
TRANL/ITED FROM THE GREEK; % »i
With preliminary Differta ions, and Notes critical and ex- 31
planatory. 3
By GEORGE CAMPBELL, D. D. F. R. S. 3
&c. Principal of Martfchal College, Aberdeen. 3
•# * The chara&er of the author, for acutenefs xf
and eiudition has been cftablilhcd by hit essay 011 2
miracles in answer to David Hume," the greatest 3
mafttrpiece of the kind ever publiflied, and by. his
" Philosophy of Rhetoric," and to the merit of 24^
the present work, the result of nearly forty years 2
'study and application, and the fabilance of his
course of lectures in his official capacity, tl»e 41
reviewers have given ample testimony, but their ac J
count,however honorable to the woik, is too long' 1
for a place in this advertifrment, the -woik howev- ■
er is now presented in an American edition at not
mpie than half the prk« of the London copy.
July 20. 4" 2w
LANDS,
Ib Harrifon county, Virginia, for Sale,
ty of y?OUR Trads coßtainingjooo acres each, and amoiety „,
rawu X of one »ther trad of 5000 acres, all situated on the (
waters of Elk and Hnghcs's river.
ion:y l or further particulars enquire at No. 70 Chefnut-flreet,
:d for the Patents may be seen.
Aug. 4 fw&mst
on— This Day is Published, 3
:ntire By WILLIAM COBBETT,
.vings North Second fireet, eppcjtte Chrifl't Church,
)n«y The Life and Adventures of
in PETER •PORCUPINE;
r /' With a full and exa<ft account of all his authoring traiif- 7
iC T r J anions in Amcrica. By Peter Porcupine hinifcli. 1
I •
SV CABLES,
<j days From 16 to 9 | inches, for sale by
Lu Jeremiah Warder, \
]ily 12 § 11 north Third-llreet. 1
draw! Trcjfury Department, Aug!# s, 1796.
Public Notice is hereby Given,
Prizes, TN purfuaacc of an a& of Congress, palfed on the jßth
' Bank A day of May, 1796, entitled "An aiv providing lt for
the a the &le of the landsof the United skates, irt the Territo
ry north well of the river Ohio, and above the mouth of
nent of river," that the feftionsor lots of land defcri
of the bed in the annexed schedule, lying in the' seven ranges of '
jus tafls townihips, which were fsirveyedin pursuance of an ordi
t uum- nance of Congrefs,.palfed oa'the twentieth day of May,
■>at the in the year one thoufan J seven hundred and eighty-five.
iral ab- . will beexpofed.iorfale ax Public vendue, in the town ot
Pitdburghin Pennsylvania, on the twenty-fourth day of
>of the o(3ober next, and thenceforward, from day to day until
tickets the firft day of December enfuing,unlefs the laid lots shall
hat the be sooner fold, in the manner, and on the terms and con.
:are and dition, herein after mentioned, to wit :
>ofdl of ill. The said fe&ior.s or lots iball be fold under the di
cnl'able. re&ion #f tlie Governur or Secretary of the Welkern Tcr-
T. ritory, raid iuch person as the Pr'efidcnt of the United
illia ; of States may l'pecially appoint for that purpose.
Bolton ; 2d. The said fe&ions or lots fcall be fold to the highest
i Wells), bidder, but no Tale can be made for less thar. two dollars
» ? er <crc °f the quantity of land containad in such lot or
(edion.
3. The highest bidder is before mentioned, must depo
.C j tke time ®f one twentieth part of the pure : afc
a in th v mouey ' in person asthe President ©f the
Delaware ' UnitcdStates I 1 ® 1 - 1 appoint to attend tliefalcs for that y.ur
frorii th'' P ofc ' which bjforfeited,if a moirty of thefumbid,
lent Und mcludin S the fa,d twentieth part, shall not be paid v.-itnia
ne wood- ,lui f,4IU the time of fide.
'here are . 4 5 h - U P on P a y f,leiu ° f a r ' loi «)' of tie' cuvchafe money
k4 rooms in t , " ,anner before mentioned, the purchafcr wi 1 be
amp-well ' COt "," „ Q one y ear s crs< lSt for the remaining moiety ;
1, fcbles, Jf.* ' r<ceive lriMD Governor sr Secretary of the
mi {lone, ■?" T™ T " ntory ' a / DG P arol! who be appointed
of peach- t .i : of ti.e UmtedSrates, t© direct the_fules,a I
Mediately c "" l |" CAt e defcribmg the lot or f-dion purchafod, and de
tdvactage c - arlB S thelum paidonaccount, the balance remaining due,
iarly con- t ,' e tu ? e w ' lcn balance becomes payable, and tha» "
the whole land therein mentioned, will be forfeited, if the F
n the high bah "" 15 P ot * h «l ! but if the said balancs shall v
1, and the du 'y d "fcharged,by paying tke fame to the Tccafrrer of b
mtleman's United Stites, the purchafcr or his afiignce or other I I
legal representative, Shall to a patent.for the
Harman, . °° his prodKcing. to th} Secretary of State- a re
ceipt for iuch balance endorsed upon tlj;: certificate. But
:\vis U an y P urcfcafei ihall make payment of the whole of the
purchafc money, at the time when the p-.tyment of the
6xll moKt y 18 directed to be made, ht wiH hpcr.tit!ed to 2
I • • "1 •
. t - ~ x .
jedu-Sion of ten per eentutttonthf jK>rt for whidk a cre
dit is authorized to be givea ;atd his pat.;ut ihaU be im
mediately issued.
Given under my hand at Philadelphia, the day ani
year abovL mentioned.
OUVRR WOLCOTT,
tht i'rsaitiry ;
Schti'ale of feS'tont of to<wiifbips, at fra"\mu! pnrts
of tovjnjh'ips, to be fuld at Pittjb"rgh, inpurjuance
of lit 6:b fcflion of an an of Cotiyefs, psfri on
1 I the 18//; day of May, » ■
■> • 1 • • S i
> tL-t. 1} u~ — u *^
C <-> o R o O O u O
c < 2|| & < '£' o■< I e
\ .I! * L
ift Rangk. 6rhTo\rn](hip. 6th Range.
3 ill Township: Kaia.646 each lit Township.
3 28 565 T 4 | < "*P *7 3| to
3 29 256 95 1 J»aoj<>4S each 18 2 70 |
30 25c 75 153361640 each ii BJO
3 34 249 $•© Bthl ounfliip. J 22 166 40
35336 640 ;-aeh 3*814 640j«ach | 23 42?
sd Township 7320640 each. 24 640
3 1.9 il 40 23 640 !*7 J SI 80
ao* 170 7© 25*30 640 each 640 each
21 185 33436 640 M ! J3 58
22 2 jo lothTownfh/p. [34*36 640 each
1 45 488 .80 ia2 j6 4 oieach lad Town (hip.
26*47 640 each 531464 c each: 1 126 --
28 56c 17320 6401 tacli | a 440
29 55 1 60 i3aj6 ! 64o|eacii* 3 448
3a 564 nthTownfhip. 4 456
31-3 6(640 each ia.l4 640 «td> 5 464
c . 4 shTt>wnfhip. 17 420640 each 6 47 a
19 64; 23*361640 each 7 '.j4o
« 640 , 8a 14 64Qeach
26 3«7|60 lftTownftip . 17*20640^
6. a 7 36 , j r 23*36 640 eacfc
31*38 640 tocl 2 4 5 3d Townftip.
33 H 30 4o 1 4 *?
34 445 20 2 ,
35 35*3 f ,40 each * UU
3* 16 adTo*nfhip. 494
2 26, 6® {
«• 6 IJ 9 20 3*6 64; .'ach 6 {" .
k 12 479 3o % , 6< 7314 640 each
Q . 17 304 15 g ".3 Ji7a2064- each
lS 6 3 8 i° 9 ai2 4c each each
23 450 75 Yi 1 c jthTowi.ftip.
24 T M 40 1
* 29 I 4 1782 c ',4c-'ach 2 Slt:
x ~ 3° 40 2333;' .40 e; ch 3 -34
35 311 80 3dTowa(hip. 4 54 °
5. 36 640 l*i4 64ocach s , 54
ad Range. 17340 64c each ' ,
' fs ift Township. 23*36 64c, e3ch
011 28 1 5 M sth I owr.lßip. , , ,
c „ .341 a«
fti s 3d Townlhip. 1 7a20 640 each ,66-
,c 24*56 640 ;ach 23336 640 each -
48 Ij 9 o 16 7thTownlhip. J ' 4 ,
29 ! 132 640 each 3 76
hIS 3'a35i64t achj 537 640 each 4 ?
:•>« 4thl'owr.fhip ! I2ai3 64ceatiij
ac 11 ad 40 I ,5310640 each
mg 12 39/ 5° I b 4O 1732 c 640 each
ev - 13 5' 50 30.36 640 Mcb 6 4 3ch
not IS 50 ililwijh .
,6 459 »o 1214 640*ach . ..j,
*1 l U 17 "2 4S J ! '7a«6 4^eh
— 18 64c , rach
20 58480 I3i4^-ce a ,| J h
21 636 2! ,i 7 32 C 040 each |6 h
the 4Sa 3| MC n R"'' 3 f £ 3 !»v6 0400 4 0 -ch
j.h 1 ownflup. 11 Jth-1 ovt n(h, r r^t( , 4 ,5,,
reet J 63< • ~h Ja , | e^h
6a 7 64. ath 17«064c • ; :o ;Mc 6 J tach
3 t m I jVjts4oWK
I7arßj64c each r t UUANG& ttl.Towuihiu.
* 3 3d 3_6 4< a< - 1 iftTownihip. lai4j64«cach
7thTown«np. jg JJ4 , a _, 7 a*o'6 4 o> a oH.
3 •' *°l 22 ' 87 50 23336 640 '-ach
BihTt>wnft:p ~ • ', Q J J
135 640 each l\ f' 50 7 thS/KG?-.
E; 6 4.0 ; 4 j 6 ° 'ft Townlhip.
rsrif. 7ai4&4ceac. !,„ 4 10 14, 2,0
17320 640 e3ch Z ' 3 6 tt3«fjo
'.U a 3»3#4oeach *dTow"<l»p.
othTownlhip. ' 1 R 3 35
6 640 ** I £ 4 6i5 l
8 'i- 10 ' 3 1 Mce-'ch
T.l 33136 64c - 6
11 4 . 2iiTownfhip. ?r»,j ea -h
13314 64c -acn 4 [go J0 10312,4 w-h
-t. 19320 640 f?ach 14 3°
—• 3 jg .>»««£«*
' 3 dIUsGF. 5 456 1Q J9 f;
> 2d Towtifhip. :a64.Sa. • ftic wi»
jßth I 5 - 40 7 ,5.5 c ; ,B C I
, ior 16. 6co 8 6i3 26337 <4<?fiKb
™j""f 20 557 50 9 a1 4| fr 4o Jach 4th j own jh;p.
21322 ,'uc -ach • 7 3201640 each 640 each
!cfcrl - 23 609 I7a JJfil c each
253361640 each 4th I '
M ' 3d Township. T3i4 64o]each 6th - rott ,„lfffv
-five' 9 60 lyaao Meach lal '
.n ol 10 344 1 3\3fa , 6^ a ck
ay of' " 267 '^rpwnfhip.
until 12 152 iai 4 64 C ach gtTownfhip
s {hall 14 50 j 17320 $4c :ach $ al^u4C je*ch
Icon. 15 630! I 23136 64c b.ch f?M< |s 4 c| f ach
l6aiß 640'tach Btli l i'Wnfinp. ,6f64 C jeach
he di- -19 217 '50.1 xai4|64oea«h ,Q t hXownfhiT>.
iTcr- 20 6161 75 1.7320[64C each , al4 |6 4 oUach
Jilitwd 21336 "o4oti-aclv 23336,64 c each ,. 7aso 6 4 cpch
4 th Township. lothTownfhip. L'acl
ligheft 1 1170 | rar 4 6'4cleach ,^hTow'nfc'P
dollars 2' 544 tyaac «4cpch l a -_,|s 4r -ach
lot or 3 ilo *3330 a4C"eacb T 64? L at h
4 4 (n.tbXowfftip. 3-3,6164' each
de P°" 5 lie iai4 54r1-*ach J^,hTownfhip.
ire afe 6 I 7 a2c 64c ach jj^^itach
I 7 563' 23»3f 6 4 c|each1 20 '6 40 eM*
■m'bid 8a 9 64c each i 4 tl) l ownfc.n a
11 520 70 X7.»2c-U4t.e2tft ~i4 t f4ojeacii
money I2ai4 6 4 c ach .s 3 3 3 «L-4£ eAch lli 7 a»ofc 4 t>
wilbe 1712064® ach 2333161640!^
moiety j 23336 64c iacl.
>/ of the NOTE. , ,
: xj'es% THE quantities of the fevcral
„ 4 J • fore mcntiosed, are eiclufivc of the Lots reierv u 7
ingduc, Unitcd a!fo of th°f« formerly oljl ,
pji .i, f gregate quantities m the several townfhirs or
d if the F'.-tsof townships, hare been ascertained 'vfu
14m "W; the quantities in particular lots or fccho*.,
if; -*- 1 j heeit no otheiwife ascertained than by calculation.
• for the I _ v D
ate-are- p RiN TED BY JOHN FEN t
fce. but ■»*
cos the ' No. 119—
:t of the. C H n S N W r-ST R K E T. ,
itledtoa j[Pricc Dfc!hr» per AufcgP'J
* . i