• . 1 - • ~3 , . ( V
of the ®nttcaH>tates» <£>» Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.^
. - MONDAT EVENING, OCTOBER 17, 1796. {TOZC/A/* X.
Number 1281.J — —— — —
J. * _ „ . r i c CO. t7> A /-N /~v TV TT f~\ TT O T? I -n A 1
For Sale, Freight, or Charter,
The Brig ZEPHYR,
Capt. HINCHMAN.
This veflel is about 3 vears old, (launch,
L-and well found, has two decks. and is
bitrinened about 1200 barrels: lyin ? at firft " hjr f bel °"
Chrfnut-ttrett. If not fold or chartered on or before the
loih instant, she will lake freight for Norfolk.
■ppiy t« the captain on board, or to .
Vr ' S AMUIt. BRECK, iun ;
No. 89. south ThnH-ftreet.
"22 hhds. New-England RUM,
May be had on board said veflel.
Philad.Oflober 14, »794- d6t
For Portsmouth, Ncw-Hampfhire,
- The Schooner LUCT,
Daniel Prowfe, master; will fail in
\ the course of a week, and take freight
on moderate terms, for which, or
5 ci«ssSf£? paffagt, apply on board, or to
Joseph Anthony, & Co.
OtSober 15* { * x
For Sale,
The brig FAIR AMERICAN,
Captaiß Richard Cailey,
AN entire new veflel, and well finifted
fcmlffl' 'j£V* built at Newbnry-port, (N - F..) her plank
" "-*■ i- 'S and timbers white oak 1 Sails well, and
is tompletely fitted—her dimensions are 5 7 feet keel, draft
jrabbit—«2 feet beam—B feet 8 inches hold, and 4 1-2
between decks. She is now discharging spars, near the
Still-hoife wharf, Southwark, and if not difjpofed of i«
a few days will be fold at public sale at City-Tavern,,
on the evening of the 1 jth inft.—Apply to
ISAAC HARMEY, jun.
* 5 South Water Street.
lothmo, joth. diw.
The Brig MART,
Lying at MeiTrs. Willing# and Francis's
Wharf .burthen *50 barrels, built in Philadelphia in 1793,
of live oak and red cedar.—She is well found, and may
be sent to sea at a small expence. For terms appl} to
Gurney CfT Smith.
o&. 6. dtf -
FOR LONDON,
The capital ship CERES,
X?ff?7p s is^>T o fail soon : —For freight or pafiage
to DAVY, ROBERTS & Co. or
John Vaughan,
September to. Front-street.
jJT** For Charter,
The Danish Barque Beneventura,
Samuel Stub, master,
good vefTel, of about two hundr«<*
tons burthen. JESSE & ROBERT WAI.N.
Sept. 17. dtf
for Charter,
The Ship Dominict Terry,
£i'i' Jacob De Hart, master : an excellent
vessel, of about 3000 barrels burthen.
Jeffe y Robert Wain.
September 21. d
Boarding and lodging
TVTO &ENTLEMEN may be accommodated with
Boarding and Lodging, in a private family and pteafant
part of the city. Apply to the Printer of the Gazette ot
fche United States.
October u. tt&stf
Waftiington Lottery.
The Tventy-eighth & Twenty-ninth days' drawing of
the Waftiington Lottery, No. 2, are received at the office
No. 134, Market-(lreet, where tickets may be examined.
N. B. Information given where tickets in all the othct
lotteries may be procured.
October 13, 1796. d
Wm. HOLDERNESSE,
No. 76 High Street,
H4S received, by the latcli arrivals from Europe and
the East Indies, a well feleifted assortment of Silk
Meresry, Linen Drapery and Haberdalhery Goods; which
he will fell, Wholesale and Retail, dn the lowtft terms j
AMONGST WHICH ARE,
Some finelndiamuflinsemhroideredwith gold and silver
Superfine Book, Jaconet, aid Mulmul ditto
Do do do do Handkcrehiefs
Some «xtra black tafFcties,lut«ftrings<ind colored Persians
Bandano Handkerchiefs
Long and (hort Nankeens
English Mantuas of the firft quality
Daiuaik table linen and napkins, very fine
Silk Hosiery, an elegant assortment
Thead and cotton do
Umbrellas—green silk, oit'dd#. and do eluth
French cambrics, very fine
Jrifh Linens, do. &c. &e. June 14 5
For Sale,
30 Hogsheads of choice New-England
Rum,
Landing frumthe fchotiner Jdhn, at Vanurens's wharf.—
For terms apply to No. 71, North Water Street, at the
head of she wharf.
oft. 3. dtt
Great is Truth and mufi prevail.
JUST PUBLISHED,
jlnd for fate at No- 41 Cbefnut-Jlreet by J. ORMROD,
An Apology for the Bible,
By R. Watson„ d. d. f. r. s.
Bi/bop of Landaff, Vic.
Being a complete refutation of Paine's
Age of Re of on,
Aid the only anf*er to the Second Part.
, Augiift 30. dt
The Members of the Society of the Sons of St. George.
I eftahlilhed at Philadelphia, for the advice aciuffiftancc of
1 Englilhmenin distress, are requested to attend a quarterly
meeting of the said Society on Monday the 24th inft. at
one o'clock P. M. at the City Tavern.—The members are -
h i requeued to be in their attendance, as the rules
15 and regulations of the Society are to be considered.
w A. Humphrey*, Scc'ry.
I! Qft - 14 ' 1 7 »6- 1
Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLER, jun. & CO. i
Have received per the William Pcnn, in addition to ;
their own alTor ment,
A consignment of twenty trunks of Calicoes, ele
gant London patterns ; also a few cases of handsome
Buttons—Which will be foi lat a ihort credit, oh very (
reafonahle terms, bv the package only.
n o<a. 14. dtf
it — ; 5
>r On TuefJay next will be publijhed,
By William Cobbett, opposite Chnft-Church, j
An Answer to Paine's Rights of Man, t
By R. Makenzie, Esq. of Edinburgh. t
To which it added, I
A Letter to Citizen Swanwick, 1
By Peter Porcupine. ,
The whole is dedicated to Do&or Joseph Priestley,
Fellow of the Royal Society of London, Citizen of ,
d America, and Deputy Elect to the National Coaven-
tion of France. j
Oift. 14. t
2 Benjamin and Jacob Johnson,
No. 147, Market-street,
a Have received by the last arrivals from Liverpool and
Hull,
A very generalajfortment of DRTGOODS, \
Well suited to the approaching season, which they will
fell 011 the leweft terms by the piece or p&rkage. t
Q&aber 14. taw4w j
The Cargo of the Polacre Indep«ndent, '
CAPTAIN CATHCART, from Alicant and Lif- \
bon, landing at the fubferibers wharf— £
s 48 Pipes of Brandy
l, 18 Bales of Spanish wool r
y 3 do. of Annifeed £
7000 Buihels of bell Lilbon Salt
80 Boxes of Lemons /
For sale by WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
ALSO,
Seventy Hogsheads of prime JAMAICA SUGARS,
received by the ihip Dominick Terry, Capt. De Hart, j
from Kingston.
Sept. 13. . d
r Loft last Evening, t
At Ricketts's Amphitheatre, (supposed to be taken by t
some villain ovt of a gentlerlian's pocket)
A red Morocco Leather POCKET-BOOK,
Ccmtaining about dollars ill banknotes; three notes
of hand of Rofs and bimfon, 305 and 306, da
tod 12th last Angtlft, payable 60 days after date, to the 1
7 order of Paul Siemen, together for 5 ijo dollars ; an ordar
of Mrs. Ann \ acpherion, from Faul Siemen, on Lach
lin Mac Neal, Elq. at Poft-au-Prince, f>r 100 dollars ; bc
fid«s fcveral letters and papers of no use but to the proprie- u
tor. The notes of hand and order are without endorfe
mertt. SIGHTY DOLLARS REWARD is offered tc>
any person who will discover and secure the thief, and J
FORTY D"OLLARS for only bringing the above menti
oned notes and papers at No. 149, corner* of Front and
Mulberry streets. d Oct. ii.
t Just Imported,
Tin Plates in boxes
Sheet and bar Lead
Shot—all sizes, patent and oommon
Coppier bottoms and flieets
ihoes and boots in cases
Taunton Ale in calks of 10 d©z. each
Biifket Salt
\ Wool Ca*d^
t Gold Watches.
I For Sak by
Simon Walker,
OA. 1. mwfim Dock-street.
*" NOTES LOST. *
WHEREAS two notes drawn by Benjamin Haflcell
and George W. Kirkland, dated Boston, the 74th
e February, 1796, payable to Joseph May, or order, in 18
riianths after date, one for One Thousand Dollars, the
r other Fifteen Dollars, were ftoltn with some other papers
out of a trunk on the Lancaster road. It is requtfttd that
any person to whom they may be oflered for negociation,
• will give noticc thereof to the fubferiber.
GARRETT COTTRINGER.
Se P'- 3°- ttrtf
No 153,
1 Diftrifl of Pennsylvania, to wit i
C rcmemhereci > that °n the fevenceenth day of Sep
-1 13 tember, in the twenty- ,rft year of the independence
of the United States of America, William Mitchell, of
the said diftriift, deposited in this office the title of a book,
r the right whereof he claims as autfior, in the words fol
lowing, to wit:
" A new and complete fyflem of book-keeping, by an
5 " improved method of double entry, adapted to retail, do
" nieftic and foreign trade; exhibiting a variety of tranf
" anions which usually occur in business. The whole
« eomprifecl in three sets of books; the last set being a copy
" of the fccond, according to thofefyftems most generally
in use, is given in order to exhibit, by a comparative
" view, the advantages of ihe system now laid down. To
'• which is added, a table of the duties payable on goods,
" wares and merchandise imported into the United States
14 of America. Ihe whole in dollars and cents.
" By William Mitchell."
In conformity to the aft of the Congress of the United
States, intituled," An act for the encouragement of learn- |
iug, by fccuring the copies of charts and books to i J'
the authors and proprietors of fiich copies, during the ■
times therein mentiooed."
SAMUEL CALDWELL, elk, dift.,
Pennsylvania.
N. d. The above Book is now publithed, and may be
had of the Boskfelltrs Ofloberj. •" 4 wiaw tl
Plans of the city of Philadelphia, I
Including theT>roRTHERN Liberties and diftria of /
Southwark,
, PublifhM, and fold by '
BENJAMIN DAVIES,
No. 68, High street,
titto , • p rice one dollar.)
TITTS plan is 26 inchcs f q , !am and has been en
. graved by one of the firfl artif!, in the r.tv, from a late r
and accurate survey. Purchaser, are ent.fled to a piim . j
phlet with each plan, g.ving «« fo n , e account J the •
city, its population, trade, government, &r.
'9 tn^ftf
7 A GOOD HOUSE,
' FOR SALE,
lt THE fubferiber, intent oil moving to the country,
e offers far fair, the HOUSE in which he now resides. —
:s tts healthy and beautiful situation, opposite the gardens
of Mr. Bingham, needs neither comment oreuiogium.
Pofleflinn will t>e given on or before the 15th of the
ensuing month.
THOMAS TINGEV,
No. hi, South 3d Street.
H* bat nlfo fur Sale,
A fee all handfhme aflortment of work'd and plain
INDIA MUSLINS, which h« will dispose of reafoa
-9 ably. dtf. October 10.
Lottery and Broker's Office,
04, South Sf.COND STREET.
' j 'ICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. a, for sale—a
J. Check Book foo elimination—and prizes paid in
the late lottery.
Cheek Bonk? kept for examination and r.jittering, for
the City of Waftington, No. 2, and Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information where
' tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
examination.
The fubferiber folic its the application of the public
snd his friends, who wish to purchase or fell Bank Stock,
£ Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houfcs, Lands,
&c. or to obtain money on cepoftt of property.
*,* Also T ickcts in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
faje at Ten U<>llErs- eacti, which will be drawn early in ,
_ the Spring.
Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, Augufi 18, >796. xr.th
[ : ; — ;
UNITED STATES, 1 n-
Per.nfylvania Diftrifi. J JJ'
' NOTICE is hereby given, that pursuant to a writ
to me, directed from the honourable Richard Peters,
Esq. Judge of the Diftrift Court of the United States,
in and Itfce Pennsylvania Diftri<fl, will be fold at
' public fafe, at the Cuflom-HotlTe Itfc. as, tft Pr6ot, holow
WaJBUt-Jlrett, on Monday the 14th inft. at 12 o'clock
it noon.
THIRTY BAGS COFFEE,
The fame having beefl libelled against, prosecuted, and
condemned as forfeited in the said Diftridl Court.
WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marlhal.
Marshal's Office, Bth of October, 1796.
, For Sale,
> By J. WARDER, PARKER b 5 Co.
An Invoice of Cordage,
Confiding of different sizes, from 12 inch cables down
to rope of 1 inches, at" different lengths: Imported in
r the fliip Swift, from Hull, and entitled to drawback.
Sept. 17, dtf
Sales of India Goods.
The Cargo of (hip Gftngcs, capt. Tingey, from Cal
cutta and Bengal,
CONSISTING OF
A Large and general affqrtment of Bengal and Madras
COTTON and SILK GOOD 3.
AMOtfc WtfrCM ARE /? •
J A variety finis worked and plain Mujlins,
Dorcas, cs"c. -Also,
i A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
In boxes and bags—and BLACK. PEPPER,
For Sale by
Willings y Francis,
No. »l Penn Street.
June 8 §
NANKEENS,'
Of the frjl quality, FOR SALE BT,
RD. and JAS. POTTER.
For any quantity above Five Thousand Pieces, a li
beral credit will be given. R. Sc. J. P.
September 13. T. tf
70,000 Pieces Nankeens,
Of the beji quality and cn reasonable terms,
FOR SALE BY
Philip Nicklin & Co.
■ -flHguft 2b, dtf
Philip Nicklin Sc Co.
HAFE FOR SALE,
Souchong
Hyson Skin /
Youn? Hyson > FRESH TEAS
Hyson and \
Imperial
Yellow Nankeens
China Ware, assorted in Boxes and Chests
. Quicksilver
Baadanno Handkerchiefs of excellent quality in
chests ' H '
London Market MADEIRA WINE
London particular >in pipes, hocfheads, &
New-York Market ) quarter caflcs
TenerifiFe Wine in pipas and hogsheads
Sugar Candy by the Box
Sail Canvas No. 1 a 8
Lead in sheets
3 Calks of Cutlery afTorted
A few chests of Mauchefter Goods,
sets, cords, striped Nanlc#cns, &c.
3 Small packages of black sewing-silks
8 Tierces Virginia Snake-root.
Nails aflbrted in caiks
! J ul y 18 mw&f
Wanted to Reht,
A • •
A convenient, well furnijhed Bed Chamber,
With a good firc-place, in an airy and healthy part of
the city. The person who w:«k to rest such a chamber,
would have no objection to board, or breaklaft er.ly, with
the family occupying the house, as may be moO. agreeable,
t Apply to the printer.
September 19. taw
TAKE NOTICE.
rHE fubferiber intends to make application far a re
newal of the following certificate, supposed to be
loft on the pafiagc to England in April 1794 ;
Certificate No. 10335, dated 15th November, 1793,
- for 2830 dollars and 91 cents—Six per cent, donu flic
debt, on the books of the Treasury of the Onitad States
■ in the name of the Hon. John vor.
ROBEKT BIRO, a* Jorrn Warder's.
Philadelphia, Auguil joth, 1796. " 'tuicfCw
For Sale,
50,000 Wt. Black Pepper, and a quan
tity of Mace, Nutmegs and Cloves,
s Imported in the brig Mary, from Batavia, and entitle J
• to the drawback. Apply to
e John Wikocks,
t South Wharves, adjoining Ton Alley.
Who has te l^et,
Thai fpacicul and convenient, three-story, Brick
HOUSE, Nos. 59 ;'nd 61 South Water-street, lately
occupied by Isaac Hazlehurft, Esq. and admirably cal
culated for the accommodation of a dry good men
chant in an retentive i; nc . Also, several excellent
Warehouses adjoining. '
Ofl. 15. d 6
Madeira Wine.
A few piptss of Madeira Wine, landing from on
board the schooner Lucy, Capt. Prows, at Chcfnut
ftreet wharf, and fat file by the fubferiber.
Robert Andrews,
os. 14. mwf No. 86, So. Wharves
FOR SAL J*'.,
By N. and J. FRAZIER,
No. 95, S. Kront-ftrcet,
Prime BoJlon Beef, in barrels,
Georgia Cotton.
Carolina Rice and Indigo.
Sherry andTeneriffe Wines, of excellent quality.
Ravens Duct.
ludio liaK-Janno's.
. Sewing Si\ks, various colours. (
Coffahs and Gtirruhs.
Sarit. 17. tts4W,
t The, Subieriber requeits every Man
to whom be Hands indebted, tu meet at the City Tavern
en Tluirfdijy afternoon, a: four o'clock, rasciseiy,
as he ay on Id in the courffi of th« evening, to con
vince every impartial mam he means to do him llriift
justice. He will personally attend and brhig hi"; hook*
with him, and be prepared to make I'uch propofalj to his
creditors, as will, he hopes and flatters himfclf, be fatif
faflory. GEORGE MEADE.
Fonrth-ftreet, Fhilad. 14th Oiteber, 1796.
On Sa'.urday, the 32nd instant, at 6 o'clock in the
evening, will be fold by Public Vendue, at the City
Tavern, (if not before disposed of at private sale)
An Elegant House, No. 78,
In IValnut Jlrtet;
WHICH is twenty-five feet front by one hundred and
fevtnty-one feet deep, with a lot adjoining, 20 1-2 feet
wide hy 72 feet 8 iuches deep—(This lot is back of the
house occupied hy George Willing, Esq.), The house i»
completely finifhed in every respect. It is fifty feet deep,
, ha» two large parlours, the front one 24 feet, the back
one s2 feet by 18 1-2 feet; a handsome drawing-room
24 i-x feet by 24 feet. The rooms below, the drawing
room and chambers adjoining, have mahogany doors,
and these, as well as the rooms above them, have a com
munication with each other. Thcheighth in the firll and
second ftorics is twelve feet, and have ftocO cornices, and
nine roouis'Up-ftaits befidea the gairct*, which are divid
ed-into three rooms: a good kitchen, wafli-houfe, milk
and bithing-hoiifes, a lirge icc-houle, a pump in the yard,
and a three feet thfee inch alley that leads into f'ourtb
ftreet. The cellars are laid with lime, and floored with
two inch plank, and plastered. I'he yard is well paved
and the house is clear of groUnd-rent. Two brick liable*
in Wainut-ftreet, with two coach-houses, one of them will
hold two carriages the other one. The fniallefl liable has
room for three, the largest for four horfe3. It is 21 feet
front on Walnut-street, by 30 feet 3 inches deep. They
have excellent lofts over them. The building is arched
and laid with liirie and two inch plank, and will hold
about one hundred pipes of wine ; is clear of ground
rent, and has the. privilege of an 11 and i-i feet alley ■
that leads into Fifrir-ftreet.
Also, a large, Brack Store, 33 feet front on Fourth
ftreet, by 50 feet deep, wbich might, at a fniall expenee,
be turned into a handsome dwelling house, having been
so contrived in the building. It has a yard, 48 feet 6
iiaches deep, by 24 feet wide ; has a rain water pump,
and other conveniences, and the cellar is laid with two
inch flank, and is now rented at 40 dollars per month.
This building is fubje& to a ground-rent of 11 3.4 dollars
per annum. Purchasers before the sale may apply to
the fubferiber, GEORGE MEADE,
Or R. FOOTMAN, & Co. Auctioneer*.
October 14.
University of Pennsylvania,
OBobcr 5, 1796.
The Medical Leisures will commence the firft Monday
in November. < taw3W
FOR SALE.
PORT WINE, and
HOLLAND GIN, of the firft qualities io Pipes.
1-RAtJNCES and VAN REED,
Brokers and Commiflion\Merchants,No. 63,50.3d St.
Who discount approved NOTES of hand.
N. B. An APPRENTICE Wanted.
September T4. mwf
n For sale by the fublcribers,
IN PENK-STREET,
, 130 quarter Chests frefh Hyson Tea;
* ieo ditto do. frefh Souchong Tea;
300 Boxes China, containing fmail tea setts of 4»
pieces;
400 piectfs Bandanoes.
Willings £ff Francis.
_ January 30 tt&f
Thomas Ryerfon
HAS just received, by the foips Molly and Hamburgh
Packe-t from Liverpool, and the Light Horse from
Bristol, and is now opening for sale, at his flore No.
177, Markei-flreet, an extensive alTortmcnt of
Ironmongery, Cutlery, Hardware
and Saddlery.
The (hip Caroline, now on hex passage from Liverpool
'f to Philadelphia, brings the remainder of his fall impor
"> tation.
I" 1 N. B. At the above store may be had, a few elegant
:• Mahogany Cases for Table Furniture; also, a good as«
fortment of the bed kinds of Knives and Forks.
Sept. 23. d
THIS DAY PUBLISHED,
By J. ORMROD, No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet,
e (Price 12 1-2 Cents)
The President's Address
c To the People of the United States,
>, Announcing his intention ©f retiring from public lift
at the expiration of tfce present constitutional tern*. •£
presidency.
79, 4For one Night only—being positively the '
lajl Night,
On TUESDAY EVENING, Oflober iB,
\ __ ->4t the Affimbly-Rotm, Oellers's Hotel,
Will be presented, by way of an Evening Lounge,
S A <zvhimfical medhy Entertainment
in three parts, called
THE WORLD AS IT GOES >■
Or, A Touch at the Times.
With alterations and additions.
Confifling of various Comic Delcriptions, Recitations,
Songs, &c.
By Mr. Bates and Miss Broadhurft. )
part the vitsT.
SKETCHES OF CHARACTERS ;
In whieh Will be introduced, Remarks and Obferva
iions, fatiiicalf whimsical and laughable, on the dif
ferent chara<3ers, profeffions and passions of mankind,
(a j altered and modernized fiom George A. Stevens's
tenure on Aeads) with the following Portraits—
Alexander t'.ie Greit; with observations on the mad
ambition hf Kingl.
A Cherokee-Chief. J
A celebrated Quack DoAor, with his coat of arms. <
A Cornuto, whp pockets his disgrace. /
A Lawyer, with the inferefting cause of Nullum
versus Boatum.
Song, " Amidst the illusions that o'er the mind
flutter"—Mifs Kroadhurft.
A Lopdon Buck going to keep it up.
A Courtesan.
A married Buck returning from a frolic.
The smooth face ot Courtship contrasted with the
four afpe<f\ of Matrimony, and " John loves Jean, (
and Jean loves John" —by Mr. Bates.
Song, " The Rosary,"—Miss Broadhurft. J
FART THE SECOND. '
COLLINS'S EVENING BRUSH s
Or, A Peep behind the Curtain. I
With Striflurss 6n Aiding—Stage Quixotes and ,
Quacksalvers —Song of " Harkaway to the Brush," — (
Spouters and Spoofing Clubs difpfayed—A Tragedy
Taylor's introdu&ion to Mr .Garrrick—A blind Atftor '
reading his part—A blank-verse Butcher cutting up '
King Lear—The Duke in Venice Preferv'd—A Rum i
Duke—Bajazet Jjjd Tamerlane, or, a Tragedy Bell- I
weather and a Biffitam Cock, &c. .
With a Humourous Vocal Parody on Stiakefpear's (
Seven Ages.
Song, " Sweet Rosy Sleep,"—by Miss Broadhurft. j
PART THE THIRD. 8
WHIMS AND ODDITIES. t
Mrs. Thrale's Three Warnings ; or, Death an I
Unwelcome Visitor. ' t
The Laughing and Crying Philosophers ; with Dib- c
din's Soq'nd Argument, or " Let't all be unhappy to
gether"—by Mr. Bates.
" I can't for I'm in haste," a comic ballad—Miss c
Broadhurft. 1
A Treatise on Provincial Diale<sls, with a Weft r
Country Collier's firft Trip to Churah—and the co- t
, mic song of " Four and Twenty Fiddlers," by Mr. r
Bates. a
0- The doors to be opened at 6, and the perform- j,
ance to begin precjfely at 7 o'clock.
Admittance One Dollar: tickets to be had at the 1
Bar of the Hotel. , v
■ _ ii
For Sale, y
This day Landing from on board the Jhip Concord,
Captaiu Th'empfon, from Amfierdam, '
Gin, in pipes 1
Empty Gin Cases ii
% Hock in cases of 4 doz. c
Giafs Tumblers in chefU c
Sweet Oil in cafe» x .
Patte Graffe Cheese in boxes,
Also Landing by the Louisa, Capt. Bell, Jrom Lijbon, e ;
60 Quartjr-cilks Lisbon Wine.', c
On Hand, , ti
A quantity of Brandy, Hazle Nuts in sacks, Set. T(
Petfr Blight. I
O-ftober 17. daw eoaw vv
Robert Smith & Co.
No. s#, South Front-Jlreet, m
Have reeeived by the late arrivals fr*m London, Liver- e (
pool, and Hull, and by the Ohio arrived at N. York c .
frcyn Gltfzuw, '
A large « general assortment of G,&ods,
Suitable for the Season, confifling sf
Duffle, Point and Rose Checks, in small packages P
Blankets Oznaburgs and Brown Hoi-
White, Red, ?nd Yellow lands aj
Flannel Brown and white RufTia fu
Booking and other Baizes Sheetings t |,
Second and coarse Cloths Drillings ana Diapers
Plain and mixed Caflimeres Calicoes and Chintzes
Plain, twilled, and striped Jaconet and Book Muslins In
Coatings Do. do. Tamboured w
Plains, Kerfers, and Half- Do. do. Handkerchiefs th
thicks Printed linen end check do. cc ]
White & spotted Swanskins Roma) and Madrafs do. ,
I-ainct and fwanfdown vest Muslin and Chintz Shawls W
ft apes Bed Ticks f"
Carpets and Carpeting Table Cloths qi
Calimancocs and Durints Laces and Edgings J/,,
Moreens and Taboreens Fashionable Ribbons tu
joam'Spinning and Crapes Do. Hats and Bonnets
Camblets and Wildbores Cotten & Worftcd Hosiery at
Bombazeens & Bombazets Gloves and Mitts t0
Ra-.tinets and Shalloons Wbite & coloured Threads. at,
Plain, Genoa and printed Italian Sewing Sdks hi
Velverets & Thicksets Ivory and Horn Combs
7-?, 4-4, and 11-8 Cotton Tapes, Binding?, Pins, &c. ,
They have on hand a large affortmept of India Muslins
and Calicoes, black and coloured Persians, Bandanno and m
Vullicat &e. and a quantity of Nutmegs til
and Macc.
October 17. mw sI m / v
Just Landing, "
At South Jlreet wharf, from in board the (hip Sedg- f e ;
ley, Captain Midge, from St. Petersburg, hi
The following Goods : _ of
Ruflia Sail Dtick, firft quality. Pr
Do. fjheeting do. w]
Do. Diaper.
Jo. Huckaback.
Do. Crjfli. ur
Do. Mon'd Candles, 4, 5 and 6, to dhe lb. of the
JJngblh fizc. co
Do. White Candle Tallow. fa
Do- White Socp in small boxes,
"Do. Cordage of fine yarn.
Ravens Duck. *1"
lfinglafs, xft and and fort. tic
Ho'rfe Hair uncurkd. th
Ruili.'. B r lion. jj.
Do. Hcop Iron.
Do. N.di Rois. ' C
10 l'ons and Jfir.k. " r
St. Peatrfhurg Clean Hemp. lui
For Eale by fp
Philips, Cramcndj & Co. en
ffvtiifcer 13. •
he mm """iliS
fOR TH£ GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
N». 111.
THOMAS jEFFERSON, secretary of state
g e> of the United States, in his letter to the negro
Banncker, acknowledges himfelf converted from
all his former opinions, refpefling the inferiority ot
. the black race, and declares himfelf convinced
" that nature has given to his black brethren talents
equal to those sf other colourt, and rkat the appear
ns ance of a want of them is owing merely to the dt
' graded condition of their existence botU in Africa
and America." He concludes his fraternizing epis
tle with these words, " I can add with truth, that
nobody ivi/Les more ardently to fee a good ffliem
commenced fur raising the condition both of their
vi- body and mind to what it ought to be, at fajl as the
iif- imbecility of their present exillence and otl)tr tircvm
11 c |' fiances which cannot be neglected, will adianit 1"
18 s Notwitkflanding the caution and cunning with which
j the latter sentence is worded, to admit of a double
interpretation, if necefiarj, it cannot be denied
jhat, taking the whole letter together, it meant to
ms. express to the negro, Benjamin, an ardent wi(h to
fee an early system of emancipatitn.in the southern
um states: he bad jurt said, that nature had given to
n l his black brethren talents equal to those of the whites,
and that the appearance of a want of them was ow
ing merely to their degraded condition; he immedi
ately ardent wish for a good system for
raising the condition both of' their body and mind t6
ne i- 'hat it ought t> be, that is, in plain English, " from
an ' the degraded condition of slavery to a Rate of free
dom." The qualification subjoined, viz. " As
fad as the imbecility of their present cxiftence, and
other circumjlanees which aannot be negleSed, will
admit was introduced as an artful salvo, not too ]
far to commit himfelf: behind these equivocal ex-
; n '' preffions he thought himfelf fhcltered from an at- ]
~ tack in the southern states ; he might, if pushed, ,
j or construe them into an opinion, that for ccnturies j
U p to come, emancipation would be impolitic and dan* ;
1m gcrous, because other circumJlances would not jufti- ]
til- fj the measure. But this is certain, that had fee |
} viewed the measure of emancipation as a dangerous j
r s one, either he would have difeountenanced it, or at ,
lealt, on so delicate a fubjeft, kept Went. Why ]
such an answer to the negro* letter ? Why not ,
eonfine his anfw«r merely to the almanac, and to ]
the usual compliment on such an occasion ? Why
an make a parade%f his opinion, by extolling the na- j
tural genius of the blacks, reminding them of their }
'b- degraded condition and expressing a wifl» to fee it f
t0 " changed ? Either he was a friend to emancipation, j
jj- s or he was not : if the former, then the qualifies- }
tion refpe&ing othermrcunfluncss was absurd and un
eft meaning; if the latter, then the encomiums on the 1
:o- talents of the blocks, and his ardent with for their J
' r - release from their degraded condition, were equally :
absurd. Again, he tells Baniieker, and through j
him all the negroes in Americai " I an fatisfied
l, e that your natural talents are equal to those of the ,
whites, and that the appearanceai a want of them
in you is owing merely to the degraded eonditiun of
your exigence now what does he mean by ad
j ding, " I wish to fee you emancipated, as fooH as
the imbecility of your present existence will admit ?'*
If' the appearance of {heir want of talents wasjpw- i
ing merely to their condition, the sooner they errwrg
ed from that condition the better; if their imbe
cility wa3 produced solely by their degradation,
that imbecility would cease the moment they were
emancipated ; what kind of teafoning is it, to
charge their imbecility altogether to (.heir coßdi- v
tion, and yet to expert an amelioration of their w
reason antecedently to their change of condition { ai
It is no better than the blunder of the Irijhman, P
who would not fuffer his son to go into the water, jj
until he could swim. According to our author'* tt
mode of reasoning, the negroes could never be e
mancipated, his ardent wish could never be gratifi
f- ed j the fl»very of the negroes he fays is the sole a t
cause of their imbecility ; but he immediately adds fa
they might remain in slavery 'till their minds are >!<
'' enlightened. How arc they to acquire this neceflary Q |
pie-iequifitetoemancipatio», when,according to his te
j. dodlrine, that pre requilite can only be obtained st!
after emancipation ? Here is such a jumble of ideas, fl
ia such a confousding of cause and effeil in this letter, j r
that the production of it by a man of common la
undcrftanding can only be accounted for by afcrib
lf ing it to a pitiful grasp at popularity from a class
which he had dcfpifed, and to an ardent wish for C c
the emancipation of the southern negroes, fliroud
'• ed in the cautious and ambiguous language of one, P r
s who thought the times not yet ripe enough for a jfj
full difclafure of his dangerous views.—Another A
qualification in his letter refers to " other circum- bu
Jlances, which cannot be negle&ed 1" What cir- a '
cumltances had he in view, ta prevent the immedi- an
y ate emancipation of the blacks ? Does he allude tr;
to the difficulties which would oppose his tranfpert- m
Is. at ion scheme ? Sure the negroes would not thank
him for their liberty on such terms ; but in his fu
Notes on Virginia he is decidedly of opinion that
the negroes ot the United Statee, when freed, [ rl
d rnufl be removed beyond the reach of mixture ; ra
;s ther a treatment for his black brethren 1
Whence proceeds this right of transportation tc
(without a crime or convifkion) llur philosopher Ii
has not informed us, and on what pretext of law S
or justice, freemen, not even charged with any of. tl
r- fence, are to be shipped off, like cattle, lam una- h:
ble te discover : had he proposed shipping them C c
off, while slaves, there would be more sense in the
projeA, but firlt to erAancipate and invest them , e
with all the rights of free citizens, and then forth.
with to treat them as slaves and cattle, is altogether fu
unintelligible. 4K r v
ie Perhaps the projeWwas, to make it a preliminary ar
condition fiue qua non with the Africans that they m
iiould be free, lubjeft to immediate transportation : fe
but when free, it is doubtful how many of them fa
would confidtr themselves bound by such a coßdi- S
tion ; indeed it is questionable whether many of fa
them would accept their freedom on such terms, hi
But waving thtfe difficulties, how impolitic would n<
it not be to banish from the country feveial hun- pi
dred thousands of our black brethren, to whom na- R
lure has given talents equal to our own, and who in
spite of their monotonous colour and offenfive few
. fictions (circumflances common to thousands of tl
' colours) might become very ufeful citizens, a
\
" who according to the JeeTrtery's letter -,v®u!d rank,
with 'the whites in point of genius and nieri.,.Ht
the very instant of their emancipation. It the se
cretary of (late meant in his letter to allude to his
{hipping project by the words eircumflances,
ro jt would have been but can3i'd in 'him to have un
m folded to his black brethren the whole extent of his
views, that they might be fully apprised of the
terms.on which they had his ardent r/ifhes for eman
'ts cipation. Having omitted so efTential a part oi
r- the plan, it l's to be presumed that he has abaudon
lt- CC I it. and now wishes for their emancipation, as
fajl as other circumflnnces will allow it to be accorr.-
if- plifhed, that is, £\s feon as he (hall find it conveni
at ent todifpofe of bis own, and as soon as the mea
m fures which are now pursuing for that purpose in
' r f;vera) of the states, even in some of the fotithern
,e states, and the principles which have been trarf
" planted from the French colonies ihto America, and
his countenance as Prrfidcnt of the United Slates,
(hall combine to make the measure appear pra&ica
k ble in the eye* of its promoters.
d It appears almost incredible sand could not he
0 credited had we not the facts before our eyes) that
0 the fame Thomas Jeffetfon, who not many years ago
n ptibliflicd to the world his opinion, '* that there
0 " were powerful obstacles to the emancipation of
®» " the black?, because deep rooted prejudices en
" tertained by the whites, ten thousand recellefii
" oris by the blacks of the injuries they have fuf
)r " tained, new provocations, the real diftindlions
6 " which fiature has made, and many other clrcum
-71 " stances, will divide us into parties and produce
E " " Convul/ions which will never end but in the exter
'' " min/ition of the one or the ether race," (hould have
d recently, declared his ardent -with forfuch emancipati
l! on, at thep(k of all the horrid consequences which
® he had himfelf so strongly depi£ted.
■" if such a wonderful change has been wrought in
■* his mind, to what are we to impute it ? I can find
'» no other clue to it than the delusive and visionary
principles which he has imbibed ®n that fubjeft by
J" his rtfidence in France. It is to be remarked that
he publilhed his natfes en Virginia, after spending
e greatest part ®f his life in Virginia, among N_e
18 gree holders and Negroes, and at a period when he
' be presumed to be pretty well acquainted with
Y Negroes, and aware of the cosfequences of their i
1 emancipation; he wrote his letter to Banneker, the
0 Negro, soon after his return from France.
y If his sentiments on thisfubjett were not chan- ]
gcd w hen he wrote to the Negro, then his letter to 1
r him is a piece of gross hypocrisy, calculated t» '<
1 filch a little .popularity from a few free Negroes, '•
'» and the friends ef emancipation at the expence of '
l - his own chara&er and of the peace of his country. '
Whether the Secretary complied with the pro- 1
e mife made in that letter to Banneker "of fending
r his almanac to the great philofc: Condurcet," as
y a testimony of his black brother's extraordinary ge
nius, we have never learnt.
J PHOCION.
C —Ihjum
f OElober 17.
Latest Foreign Intelligence. \
By the fiip Philadelphia, capt. 3lift, arrived on Sa. j
turday afternoon, in 42 days from Erijiol, we
received London papers of the lqtb of Augvft (ttv, ]
days later than those received ly the Franklin) J
■which afford the following Intelligence. A.D.A. J
BASLE, August 16.
\ Ths Grifons have addressed to each of the belligerent pow
ers a declaration of neutrality, in which they protqfl that they
will give to neither party a pa%c through their territories, 1
and it either of. them attempt to employ force, it will be re- •
pelled as well by the inhabitants as by the troops of the o- '
»hcr power. It isaffirmed thaa it was in confequerc. of this 1
declaration that general Buonaparte withdrew his troops from <
the Lake of Como.
LONDON, August egj '
Yeflerday capt. Home, of the Africa, of 64 guns, arrived
at the admiralty-office, with the pleasing intelligence of the <
sale arrival in th? Downs of the homeward-bound Jamaica
fleet of meichantmen, under convoy of that (hip.
' Advices were slfo received ycfterday of the fafe arrival of '
ot the principal part of the leeward fliand and Medi
terianean fleets at the fame place; the Liverpool, Bristol 2
f"i at * g proc " dcd undtr efeor ' of 'he Doris ,
An order of Council will be shortly ifTucd to permit jEaft- '
India goods to be (hipped in neutral bottoms direJt for Hoi- «
land. A notice tothiseffea has been polled at Lloyd's
Thirteen thousand five hundred vefTels. freighted with pro
perty to of between «xt? and seventy millions fter- 1
ling, failed from and arrived at the port of Loudon, in the
course ot a year. j
Yeflerday arrived at Poole, a cartel from Cherbourg with
priloners—they bring an account that a gieat number ef pri-
Vateer»%re at sea They likewise fay, that they are preparing
all along the coast of France, for some important exoedition.
And that at Brest, and in its neighbourhood, there were one
hundred thousand men assembled, for the purpose of makin z ,
a descent upon England or Ireland. "
An order has bet 11 sent by government to the lord lieuten- ®
ants of counties in £.igiand and Wales, enjoining them to a
transmit with all pcflible speed, an account of the number of n
men .n their fevers! rountics capable ot bearing arms, diflin
gu.lhmg, at the lame lime, their ages and occupations. This 3
return is fuppof, d to be required preparatory to foine mean
fures for the mcrenfe of the national force. },
r ® rd Ys h f e fem u t>Ut ' , a " d a m 'P is sftual| y dispatched tj
from Gibra tar to bring home fir Gilbert Elliott ar/J his fuitc .
from the prccious iflana of Corsica, which isfound'to be uu- J 1
tenable on the event of the total loss of Italy to our allies.
Admira! Colpoys' squadron, which has returned £
to Plymouth, alter enfu'ring the fafety of the Weft- d
India fleet, looked into the harbour of Bred on b
Sunday the 21ft inft. where he saw twelve fail of ft
the line and eleven frigates, ready for sea. That I
harbour is blocked up by the fquadion under the tl
command of admiral Gardner.
The Paris Journals, of the 23d and 24th inft.
leached us yelterday. By a letter from -eneral Bu- e,
miaparte, it appears that the French still continue p
(uccefsfu l in Italy. On the nth instant, gjncral
J M attacked the Imperial troops at Coronna
and Montebatdo where they appeared desirous to E
make a (land—they were defeated with the loss of
feveu pieces of cannon, and 400 prisoners, were
forced to retreat. On the fu.ceeding day g encral
St. Htlaire forced the Atiftrians from Roque d'An t(
Uce, after an engagement, in which he took their h
baggage, 6 pieces of cannon, and , ,00 men. d" I
neral crofTed the-Adige, taken ico if
Roted,', 3 C ° mPelltd back on a,
,w j r of a. J+l ,„ , k „ -1 ;I
•• " wh,cll took place oimhc 11 th, a[) j j a 4 ed I
k far 17 lirors, in which ;be Au.lrian J were at ft
it facctfsful but afterwards dereated, promised to ft )
the particular* of this and t«yo other obltinate h
is t'es in which he had been engaged. In vam [ lr , v .
we examined all the papers that have reached us | >
i- find the promised. account. The last letter tro, i
is tfyit general dated the 13, arrived in Paris on th»
e 18th, and thelapfe of fix days without the prom -
1- fed details, ivc reason to suspect that the Aullu
if ans have cut out itidre work for him than lie has
1- been willing to coulefs. It is manifeft that the Em
rj peror had feat strong reinforcements both to the
- Archduke a-d Wurmfer, t<? enable »hem to make
I- a'vigorous cffoit to turn the tide of the war. They
1- have made the attempt, and though they have not
n been altogether fuccefsful, we imagine, thty Hare
n partly flopped the further prog re fs of the Frcno' .
Mantua has been relieved, Buonaparte cannot si. J
d himfelf in a condition to fallow Wurmfer thror, »
, the mountains of Tyrol ; and Moreati if viit< ir j, j
- has at last found an enemy capable of some relif.
tance.
e It is true that one of the Paris papers mention*
t a icport that Mint us had capitul ited to the French; %
3 This, however, miift not be credited on fuel) flight
9 authority.
f The article in these papers of mod important to
. this country, is the one which flares, that the Pruf.
. (Tail aTnbafThdar had received difp.tchcs from Ma
drid, announcing that the court of Spain has for
s mally declared war aoainll England. This is not 1
- given as confirmed intelligence, but we have doubt
: that it is true as to its efTence.
A Dutsh paper of the 22d infl. has the follow
; ing article :
" A letter from Hanauj of the 15th infl. poii
-1 tivelv afierts the Landgrave of Heflt Caflei to have
received information, that a large Ruffian army
1 would ma : rch into Bohemia, not only to defer,d that -
J coui.try from an invasion on the part of the French, "
r bat even to aft oflfenfively against the latter, and .11
r those German states who, contrary to theconftitu.
t tion of the Empire, had abandoned its chiefs, and
r concluded separate treaties with the republic. The
eieftor of Saxony has raised an a.my of 60,000
; men, whiah is to aft in concert with
1 anAAuftrians, to fate the imperial authority from
r ruin.
: It it with pleasure we are enabled to fay, that his
majesty being apprized, through the medium of the
. public prints, of the drudgery to which the cream
> coloured horses, grown old in his service, had been
, applied, immediately ordered t^jtm ta be bought tip
rat ® n 7 P r ' ee > at, d allowed Jo spend the remainder of
f their days in ease. The two which had been fold
, to a backney-coachraan for seven pounds, were ljtt
week purchafcd from him for forty guineas.
1 PARIS, 6 Frc&idor, Augufl 23.
A geneial offiser of Buonaparte's army arrived ,
yesterday witkthe colours takes from the army of
Wurmfer.
Terror prevails throughout Germany, The cm
pire, hke Italy, is at our feet.
Letters from Zuricl>> dated August 13,4at,e that
a column of the French army had arrived at Fuld
kirch, in Tyrol. The armies of Italy and of the
Rhine and Moselle are upon the point of formin- a
■ jUrtdlian.
Ihe valu# of the Austrian magaxinea which
' have fallen into ourtrsnds, from the banks of the
Sieg to Wurtzbourg, amounts to 40 million, of
equal to qq millions o£ our nioncy.
7 Fru&ldor, August: 24.
We are assured that M. Sandos, the Pruflian mi
, mfter at Paris, has received dispatches from Madrid,
■ announcing, that the court of Spain has declared
. war upon England, and that the Engh'fh ambassa
dor has in consequence left Madrid, ca/r.ying with <
him the Spamfh manifefto, which contains 62 arti
cles of complaint.
This declaration of war, if it be true, must pro
duce new changes in the politics of Europe The '
French marine, united to the an<J Dutch,
must m the end, counterbalance that of England.
The Swiss have fnfpended their proceeding*
againfl the French emigrants, and it is reported,
that Barthelemy has on this fubjeft more
humane mftru&ions. Several wives and children
of emigrants, who from their extreme indigence
were not able to quit Constance before the arrival
of our troops, have been humanely treated
ARMT OF IT ALT.
Extract of a letter from general Buonaparte, com
mander i" chief nf army of Iftrfv, to th«*
cxecutive Hireaory, dated Brescia, 25 Thernri
dor, August la.
'• 1 tie enemy, after their retreat, citizen* direc
tors, occupied Coronno and Montebaldo in consi
derable force, where they seemed anxious to make
a Hand. Maflena marched thither on the 24th
made himfelf master of Montebaldo, of Ooronnn'
and Preabelo, took several pieces of cannon, ,nd
made 400 pnfoners. He speaks in terms of the
h.gheft approbation of the 18th'demi-brigade of
light infantry, of his aid de camp, Rey, aad of ad
jutant-general Chabran. ,
q " t 9". tbc 2 5 ,f, > 1 ordered general Soret, and
br. Hiiaire, general of brigade, to march to Roque
d Anionce, of which the enemy seemed desirous to
keep possession. This operation succeeded ; we have
forced Roque d'Anfonce; engaged the enemy at
I.odron, and after a flight action, got poiTtffion of
their baggage, fix pieces of cannon, andtioopvi
loneis.
" Angereau has pasTed the Adige, driven the ,
enemy to Roveredo, and made some hundreds of
prisoners.
j. he,enemy has 4000 sick ins Mantua.
(Signed) « BUONAPARTE."
Buonaparte, commander in chttruf of
L\ to £he "ecutive directory, dated Brescia,
47 1 hermidor, August 14. *
" 1 ave reived with gratitude, citizens direc
tors, the frefh teftimoßy of youreaeem, which y< u
have given me by your letter of the 13th Thermi
cor. Igo not know what the o-entlemcn Journal
llts mean to do wish me : they Lave attacked me
at i.ie f?me time with the Auftrians ; you have fi
■eticed them by the publication of your lefter.
1 have completely beaten the Auflrrans-, fa
I that hitherto these double attempts of our
j ,ave P r( ' v "d equally abort! ve.
(Signed) " BUONAPARTE.":iMT OF THE RHINE AED MOSELLE.
" Head-Quarters of the right wing of
ths army of the Rlvne 4«d Mofeile,
at Memmingen, 27 Thermidor, Au
gust 14, 4th year.
t " We yesterday gave a drubbing to the army of
tV prince of Conde. They attacked us at two
..'clock in the morning; our advanced guard was
inrptifed, but the whole van, under the command
-i/f Abbatucci, was soon under aims. Our light
r: illery was so well dirciled, that 500 Condeans
i-mnined dead on the field.
«• I saw them yesterday— It was a (hocking fight,
'['he whole field of battle strewed with dead men—
mil of them having belonged ta the Noble Chaf
•ir«. to the Chevaliers de la Couronne, and the
Legion of Mirabeau. A general officer, the ci-de
miirqin's de Qmilet, died of hia wounds at
\ :i' : c!heim ; the duke d'Enghien had his horse
k;!>'J ; almost all our volnntegrs took croflesofthe
. r1 Vr of St. Louis; and if matters go on in the
ii' - manner, we (hall have as many knights of that
ixr aniong ourown soldiers, as there are among
tie emigrants. Theatmy of Coade abandoned to
!i,- the field of battle, ai d retreated behind Mindel- 1
! rim, on the road to Aagfburgh, where I hope we
(ball soon arrive.
" Our loss is considerably inferior to that of the 1
enemy. It was the artillery which made the havoc, ]
and they hardly had any.
" S. LEBARBIER." <
The directory hasjuft now ordered the caltle of
Ruelle,'near Paris, to be surrounded. It is there
that the terrorills wcr# colU&ed and.trained. It
was to have been tjie central point of a movement '
which had been for fc)me time in preparation. We
should not- wonder if Drouet was again to be found
by accident in this assemblage.
f Target, the republican Target, who reftifed to
engage in the defence of Lomis XVl.~'was said to
have oflirred himfelf as the official difender of Drou- '
ct. This, however, he has formally denied.
The conversation hag,"for fume days, turned on a 1
curious negociation said to have taken place hjetiveen c
the Jacobin* and some commanding personages.—
The efcipe of Droaet is laid to have been a condi- '
tion of this treaty, on the one fide, which was re
paid, on the other, by a promise of forbearance un
til the next ele&ion.
Philadelphia,
MONDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 17, 1796.
The following officers, in and for the City of Phila
delphia, were appointed and commissioned by the
Governor, on Tuesday, the nth day of OtSober,
1796, under the si<!t pafled at the last feflioß of the
Legislature, for altering and amending the several a<5H
of afiembly incorporating the City of Philadelphia;
* and are to hold their offices during good behaviour—
to wit,
Alexander Wilcocks, Esquire, Recorder.
ALDERMEN,
1 Matthias Clarkfon, 9 Philip Wager, ,
Rey*old Kean, 10 John Clement Stocker,
3 John Barclay, 11 Isaac Howell,
4 Hilary Baker, 11 Robert Wharton,
5 Michael Hillegas, 13 Gunning Bedford,
6 Jonathan B. Smith, 14 Nathaniel Falconer,
7 James Alh 15 Alexander Todd. <
% John Jennings, *
Out of the Aldermen above mentioned, the Mayor
of the City of Philadelphia is tobe chosen on Tuesday
next, and on the third Tuesday in OflobeT yearly
thereafter, by the meip.bersof the Select and Common 1
Council, who ire to vote viva voce, at a joint meet- 1
ing of both Boards.
ELECTION.
y —
Returns from Dauphin County.
Congress. John A. Hanna 889
John Carson 245
Samuel Maclay* 51* ,
Senator. Conrad Laticr 609 Berks 1819 1
Gabriel Heifter 572 Do. 154/
Alterably.
Meßrs. "Wintele
W. Mac Jay 724 ]
Aimfworth * 593
** Th»s is the men who b* ought forward the proportion 1
to suspend the Treaty. Fifty-one votes forhim ! Vox populi
The following prcnous moveeau appeared in the /fv
. rora of this morning.
/ IMPORTANT.
of a letter from Thomas Paine, dated
Paris, July Jo, 1706.
fj* [The editor of tW.'.urora knows T. Paine's
writing, seen the original, of !
.. . which the followiife j,7 extract.]
Z& ..jI' HN Arams has'faid (and John, it is known,
nvs always a J feller after places and offices, and ne- |
vertho't his little services were highly enough paid)
John has said, that as Mr. Washington had no '
children, the Presidency should be made hereditary
in.the family of Lunb Washington. John [
might then have counted upon some flnecuie for 3
l inrfelf, and a provision for his defendants. He
dill not go so far as to fay also, that the Vice-Pre- „
fidcucy fit-.old be hereditary in the family of John
ptudently left that to stand upon the \
ground, that,one good turn deserves another.* 1
>'John Adams is one of those men who never
I contemplated the origin of government, or compre c
I hended any thing of firft principles. If he had, he ''
• mnft have lecn, that the right to set up and ellablifh
I Icredttary government never did, nor never ct* < xitt
f iti any generation, at any time whatever : thct it is
I of the nature of treason ; because, it is an attempt
/ to take away the rights of all tbe minors living at 1
1 - time, aad of all succeeding generations. It h
is of a degree beysnd common treason. It is a fin
| :.g:iinlk nature. Tlie equal rights of v .gencrcitio»s, P
is a right fixed in the nature of things. It belongs
o the foil when of age, as it belonged the fa- ''
riser before him. John Adams would himfelf deny
I ;:.e right, that any former deceased generation could ~
hive to decrre authoritatively a fuccefiion of govrr- P
\ ors over him, or over his children ; and yet he as ''
\ fumes the pretended right, tieafonable as it is, of
\ i,
* Two yetfons to wl.otn John Adams said this,
>ld me of it. The secretary of Mr. Jay was pre a
;tr. whin it was told me. a
r
0
E. acting it hintfelf. Hii ignorance is his bed excuse
John Jay has said (aod this John was always
the fycophaat of every tiling in power, frotn M.,
in America, to Grenville in England*
John Jay has said, that the Senate should havJ
of been appointed for lite. He would then be furc ol
ro never wanting a lucrative appointment for himfelf,!
as nor have had any fears about icnpaachments. Thcfel
id are the diiguifed traitors, that call tkemfelves fedc-l
it ralitts.' ' . J
is — /
[Toe foregoing ctntains many fal/h&ods : sue Mieih
every allegation unfounded. Its im[mience ts~ confum\
mates and this is equalled only by tie insults offered tol
£ the distinguished patriots referred tijLand through tig>4j I
to the people of the United StatciW—— 2?* £>'/&.
IC J
BY THIS DAY'S MAIL.
e BOSTON, October 12.
e NEWFOUNDLAND.
t Accounts confirm the deftrtiflion of this place
g by the Trench. Wo know not the exadi force tbat
„ the-Britifh have there, nor tlie squadron which has
destroyed it.—The island is 550 miles long, and
e 200 broad ; and its value arises from its vicinity to'
the cod fifherv.; on which the fifh are cured; The
e chief towns are Piacentia, Bonavifta, and St. John's,
: but not above 1000 families reihain here in winter.
The usual naval f»rce, is a 50 gun Ihip, and three
frigates.
e f NEW-YORK, October 13.
t With all our industry, we were not able yef
t terday to obtain any Hamburgh papers, by r*:e
e brig Boston.
j Last evening |the (hip Diana, captain Rofleter,
40 days from Bourdeaux, arrived at this port.
3 Capt. R. informs, that 70,000 men were em
-5 bodying at Bred, supposed to go against Portugal ;
that a French frigate had been driven on fhsre, on
tjie ceaft of France, by a British squadron ; that no
naval a&ion bad taken place ; that no declaration
»f a Spanifli war had transpired.
Drouet is found. Fams were taken to eoneeal 1
him. His letter to the Council of 500 was refu
fed to be read. Lyons was in trouble.
The King of Prufiia, fays an account dated Bruf
felit, 30th Thermidor, August 17, has sent an EN
VOY to Franckfort, and after a conference %itb
I the Senate as that city, he offered to pay their con
tribution of ten millions, on condition, that, they
•would acknowledge him as their fovercign, retaining
their privileges. These proportions were rejected
with indignation.
Oflober 14.
It is remarkable that the firit fuccefTes of Gen.
Wutmfer in Italy occasioned excessive joy at Vien
na. Orders were given for ringing of bells, and a
general, illumination. Thfe- churches were so re
-1 feund with te Deum. Wurmfer was proclaimed
the savior of his country. But before the celebra- '
tion took place, an e'xprefs with the news of his
•lefeat arrived. All was mourning and sadness.—
'Orders were given to extinguish all the wax candles
' that had been lighted. The churches were throng
ed, not to chant te deum, but to implore mercy and
aid f.r the Imperial armies.
The French High Jury fox trial of officew of
Government, kc.. it is determined shall confilt of
16 members.
The forced loan in France has been much ne
\ gledle^l—arrearages are very great. Boudin ftatcd
in crflmcil July 25, that instead of 600 millions of
. paper, it had not liquidated one third of the futp;
The French are already preparing for a peace.
The council of 500 have sent a meflage to the
Dirfftory, to procure an cltimate of the number
of trosps which will be neccflary as a peaee efta
bliihment, and the expense of maintaining them.
A nrw stretch of power, and another violation
of neutrality by the I'reneh, has been exhibited in
Genoa, by their lequiring the Imperial minilter t»
leave that Hate.
Ptecifely as we have predi&ed, have events taken
place. "As the victories of the French give them
power, their ambition and their tyranny are exerci
n fed. Not only the conquered countries, but neutral
' Hates feel the efFe&s of their pride »nd lull of pow
er. Thejr not only retaliate o;i their enemies, which
was to be expeded,.but they go far beyond the
combined powers, in their violations of neutral rights.
j Americans, attend. You will probably, have
the monfler defpotifmXo struggle with, in anew (hape.
You have combatted kings with fucatfs. You have
now to centend with tyranny, Hnder the deceitful
but fafeinating cover of republican fraternity. Be'
I>igilant—be firm. Your election is at hand—if you
' put into office men who favor the insidious wiles of
. this pretended friend, you endanger your whole fa
' brie of government and freedom.
By the (hip Draper, capt. Collins, arrived this
morning irotn Dublin, we have been favoted with
a L-blin paper of the ill September. The Lon- j
don Gazette of the 27th of Auguit contains Col.
Craufurd'sofficial details of the railing the siege of i
Mantua, and the tranfailions of Wurrafer's army
to the sth August ; likewise the capture of several
French privateers. ,
Letters from Cadiz dated 28th Aug. are receiv
ed in town, which m ntion nothing refpedling the
embargo said to be Lid on Englifli aod Spanish vef
fcls in that port. .
DUBLIN, Sept. !. {
A gentleman whu arrived heie On Monday from
London, where his connexions placed him m the
firft hRC of information, assures us, that it i&copfi- I
demly afTerte«J in the higher eircles, Mr. Ham- 1
mond's mission to the continent has for its sole ob
, jtft to keep alive the flame of wat in Germany un
til (at least) the fi-ft week in O&ober.
, , On Friday last the apprehenfiooa of a war with i
I Spain, had so operated on the minds of the *ood
people on the stocks exchange, London, that con
lo,sa£lua!ly fell under fifty eight jalthough on that '
p day as well as the preceding, all the boilter.us ma- J
tceuvicp, which for some time have been o.'**.ju« in
thst money mart, wtre played off.
1 Ibeanfwerof the Briiilli minister to the late
application of the Portugal merchants of London, t
although its tenor is marked with all the ambiguity f
%
\ *
few of ttof. old fthool, was little of what, we in ay ft ife
ysj consolatory; refpe£ii»g the plain qiieftion whctlier
d./ a rupture with Spain is or is not tillable ; yet from
a)( it, owr merchants, we think, may conclude, that
vJ if the war agaicrft France continues, Spain will be
ol our enemy.
if,! his we hear, to line the S. W. eoaft
fel of Ireland with troops, and eres batteries on eve
e-l ry ground that commands the harbors.
/ AUSTRIAN ACCOUNT OF THE RAISING TH£
SIEGE OF MAN". UA.
\ The fortrefs of Mantua has been invested fix weeks by the
1 enemy. On the 6ch and 16th July, the forties (already
J known) were made, under general Vukuffowich, in which the
TihstJm v were foond much Wronger than it was supposed, and
which they loft near 1400 men. The want of fodder for
the Cattle in the fortrefs. occafoned the firft sortie. In the
nf|>ht of the 15th of July, the enemy besan to bombard the
cfty and citadel from four batteries. —They attempted toftorm
it—but were thrice repalfed by gen. Ruckowina, with the loss
of 900 men, kiiled and wounded, during the storm, the e
nemy had dug trenches in the foft ground before the glacis,
and continued their works, notwithflariding the violent firing.
£ Lite bombfrdment lasted without interruption ; the fcre broke
it out several times, and did no fmali damage to some buildings
lS On the 20th. gen. Buonaparte iiimmoncd the fortrefs to fur
, render: the summons was answered by a refusal. Althbugh
< many of the enemy'* pieces of artillery were often difmount#
O' ed, yet they violently hattered thetown from a second paral
e lei of three batteries. Mear.while it was agreed to spare the
hospitals for the Tick,,on both fides, which were ditlinguifiled
' by black flags. On the 27th, .'heei»emy repeated the lecond
** aflault upon the entrenchment of Miglraretto, and on the 29th,
c the third, but pen Ruckowina beat them off, with the fame
bravery at the firft time.
The enemy, who fuiUincd confidciable loss, dragged back
their dead and wounded into the trenches, so that their loss
cannot be ftriftly afcertauried. — Notwithftandiug all this, the
- bombardmcrv continued Wsthout interruption 'till the last
e davos July, at 11 o'clock at night, when the last bombs and
red hot ball? were thrown into the city. Buring tho night
theie was a rat. lingof waggons, and in the morning a general
> stillness wat percei ed in the enemy's trenches. A reconnoi
tring immediately was made, and the enemy being discovered
. ©n theirretreat, were instantly pu> sued. Count Canto d'Yrles
allures, that the quantity of provisions, an d all kinds of mili
• tary stores taken irorn the enemy, is so great that it will re
n quire some weekitotake oroper inventories of them. There
0 being a want of troops, wre armed, and with
n their afliftance there were made priloners in divers place}, one
ten Officers* two Secretaries, add 582 Privates.
I Prifooer® are continually brought in, and inagazmes of pro-
U I vision the enemy difcovercd, Near Guito thee,
neiny were obliged to take to flight precipitately—and they
also left there a confidcrable magazine of hay straw. Count
Canto is now occupied with deftroyiag the enemy's batteries
and trenches. The lof* which the Auftrians sustained fmce
this place was firft invrfted, down to the raising of the fiegc,
b amounts to 120 men killed, 395 wounded, including 14 offi
cers, and 87 men miffing. Kie)d-Mar(Vial-Lieut, count Canto
d'Yrles cannot fuflicicntly praise the courage and condutt of
y the whole garrison ; —Major-Geneials Rukowina, Vukaffo
j wich, &c. have particularly ffgoaliierf themselves. The Field
j j Marshal Lieut, oan never bellow futiicicnt praise on the patri
otic and loyal feiuimeu's of the inhabitants ol Mantua, who
voluntarily offered money, wine, linen for drefling wounds,
&c» and alw;us loudly exprefled their wifties for the success
t of the Impriial arms . ,
B [In a fourth Supplement Extraordinary to the Court Gaz
ette of Vienna, pubiifbed with the three former, the Empe
a ror accepts of the paiiiouc offer, made to him by petition,- on
- the phrt of feverai well d:fpoffcd fubje£la, of every defcrip
j tion and rank, who pose to form a corps of yofjntcers to
defend the Emperor, in concert, against his enemies J
" LONDON, August 12.
LA POMONE
s The following letter from an officer oil hoard
. t!'i» 3»p> t:>vtß a very fat isfadfory account of the
j lite atrhievement of Sir John Borlafe Watren.
" F r tmc lias enabled us to annoy the enemy ef
,(• feiiually :—On Sunday the 301k uk. at 6 A. M.
,{■ Bei de Ray bearing S. S. E. 6 leagues, and Ufhant
N. N.-E. 9 miles, a convoy coniilting of 11 fail
.. were difcovcred, to which we gave immediate chafe;
J and upon our nearer approach, perceived it to con
,f lift oi a French frigate of 32 gnu#, and a brig cor
vette of 8 guns, the relt merchantmen, who, finding;
, they could not get through the psfLge ot the
e Saints, bore up, and inn ißto Douaray bay ; but
, r fiom the superiority of failing of out squadron, we
(. cutoff the convoy from,their efcort< La t'omone,
Anfon, and Artois, pursued the frigate and cor
vette, who continued running towards the end of
n the bay to a small river, railed Poldare, iir which
n was a small creek, protcited by batteries. We con
a tinned the pnrfui; until the frigate haj run aihore,
and we brig so much, that, had (he
n been in deep water, (he must have gone to the bot
n torn : but, at all events, (he never can be of use to
j. the enemy, our fh-Jt having done the business effec
j/ tually. Being within three leagues of Brefl, and
having a bay of aliroft that length to work out of,
[, «nd the wind blowing pretty flroog Irom the weft
e ward, nijjht coming on, and the ebb tide having
r made, which might have eafilv brought,any force
e they thought proper round from Brett, we thought
it advifeable not tb anchor in the bay, or to endea
c vor to carry off, or annoy the enemy any more,
,1 but use our utmost to get out, to sea. During our
trai fatiions-wit'n the frigate and corvette, the Ja
-11 son, G'll.itea, Argus, and Dolly cutter, were em- ■
,f ployed hoarding the merchantmen. We had the
. pleaiing fstiafaftion of feeing them towing off the
(hore, and ft-'ting fire ro nine fail of them, who were
8 all in ballad, and burnt down tojpPwater's edge,
, | i» light of the iriiabirants of Brelt, a 9 the hills
. aiound the bay were all coveted with a vast con
s ©urfe of people, who had the mortificatien of fee- :
f ing rhi-ir men of war run on shore and destroyed,
.. and the convoy burnt and fcut'led."
1 .
GAZETTE Ot THE UNITED STATES MARINE LIST.
PHILADELPHIA, Oflober 17
1 ARRIVED. Day,.
Ship Clafjjow, Williams, Dublin 43 '
1 Caroline, Hilton, Liverpool 63 J
John Bulkiey, Stokelejr, Ific of.May 54 j
Dolphin, Graham, Lisbon 56 J
• Brig New York Packet, Strong, Charlelton 15 '
Sea Nymph, Peterfon, Bourdeaux J2
Argo, Fra„kft>rd, London 60 '
F rthh»l, Dickenfort, St. Bartholomews 20
1 Sch'r Friends, Hughes, Halifax 25
Buuihoo. M'Cutcheon, Cayenne 2j
Artiiied at the Ftrt.
t Sloojj Brilliant, , Curracoa |
- Bug Fame, , , Charlellon
• Polly, Bremen
Mentor, \A ehb, Belfaft— 29 paffcrigers
: Ship Commet-ce, of the Ac- :
, trvc, Bntila paekct, a French prize—and4ibout2o
r fail of other vcflels, names unknown. #
o
;Tc CLE VRED.
er 3fcip Mary Ann, Stewart, Cffrfe
Hamburg Pa-ket, Cl.iy, Livirpovl
at Brig Saliy, Calladay, Hifpaniola
. Jaoe, Liliibridge, Francois
Capt. Strong informs, that he entered the Capes
on Friday aiid had been off Chlncotcagne for
c . ten dayj, in company wish a great number of in*
ward bound veiTels, detained by calms Contrary
winds: he counted 27 fail from the ra .A-iieaJ, and
afterwards ft.w a number heaving in fight.
Two t»f the prizes (a Ihip and a b> ig) mentioned
in our last, came up to, and falured the Fort, last
hc Satut3ay, with 15 guns. They were tS ft en from
id among the fleet about jo days ago, nut 6
or weeks. The brio is called the John Hendei son.
H A vefle! is Just come up, in 34 days Ireland*
m
ifs _
s> A gentleman in this City, has receivsd a lettef
g. from his Correspondent at Paris, dated August 101
'^ c which informs irt fubftanee, that the late Decree of
f_ the French Government lefpefting neutral veflels*
1, was suspended and probably would never be carried
'« into execution—that the depredations on ,*he A
)c mencan commerce by French cruiser* in the Weft
d Indies, was unauthorized by that Government and
d done witholrt their knowledge, and that falisfa&iow
would be made for the loffci thereby fuftaiued.
k Hrrata in Photion No, 2.—ln 32 line of 3d pa
ss ragraph, for high, read higher.—At the end of thi
ft 4 th paragraph alter to read, "to juftify-fhe eman
d cipation of the blacks, they are made part of the
it human: race ;to juftify their tran/purtstion, they arc '
»! elaffed with the brutes."—The printers of otherpa»
per?, who may republifh these Kriflures, are requtf
,s ted to attend to the above corrections,
i- —
I landing,
IC Out of different veffett from England, and for fa'f
■ ■ by the fuLjcribers on reafenable terms,
Superfine and common cloths, and cafliiners
-• Ribbed and ilriped do. do.
Blankets , mottled green and {ilk rugs.
Superfine blue, Claret, and common c^ating9,
: ICerfeys, Bear-skins, plaiils and Halfthicki,
c Swanskins, Serges and Flannels,
British Ingrain Carpeting-,
0 Hatsaflorted in cases of \n doz. ea«h.
3 f Chocolate chintzes, printed Callicoes and Handkerchief**
). Scarlet Cardinals, and Scarlet Snail,
d Yarn, Worftcd, and Cotton hofiefy,
i- Beavers, Thickfetts, Velvets, Corduroys, &c. & c .
o 6cf. Bd. iod 12d. aod. nails, and frying pans,
s, An aflortincnt of Ironmongerry, Cutlery and a variety
fs of India cotton, and silk goods. *»
7 hts. & JoJhila Fi/her.
No. 5, Dock-fttrcct.
n Also by the Glasgow from Dublin,
, 1-8 and 4-4 h ifh Linens aflorted in boxes of 30 pretest
0 d®. Brown, Glazed Linnen.
17. dc f.
For Sale,
Carelma Rice in vtfiole acd half titfccs,
" Cotton of Cayenne and Trinidad,
e Soal Leather, entitled to drawback,
BoQon Beef, and
Mould and diyi curdles^—Apply to
lfaac Harvey, jurt.
t No. 5, South Watir-ftrert,
i! lOthmq.iy. d 3 w.
' For Sale,
By "Jehu Hollmgfwortb, Iff Co.
25 hhds. Weft-India Rum, 3d and 4th proof,.
5 Barrels heft Indigo, and,
r A few thousand buihels of Turk's lfland fait.
1 °<* 17- , j
c Davis's Law Bogk Stare^
' No. 313, High iftteet.
G. W. Davis begs trf give this early information, tfwt
' n ,s books are arrived per the Gkfjfow from Dublin, vrhich
1 added to those ilready received via and Lai -
timore, will enable him to form the most extensive cata
logue ever imported into this country.
' When rfpened and arranged, notice will.be pobliftcd,
and catalogues delivered gratis.
- r 7- . ,4 3 c.
pANCING SCHOOL.
j WILLIAM M'DODG ALL will open his school on Mon
day the .51 ft inft. at ten o'clock in the morning, at hit
' Elegant hew Ball Rooms,
, In Fourth, between Chefnut and Walnut Streets,
® Hours of tuition for young ladies, from 10 to 1 o'clock
"on Mondays, Wednesday, and Friday mornings; and ior
yonng gentlemen from 6 to 9 o'clock on the evenings of
- the fame days. 6
, In addition to a number of new cotillions, he means t«
r introduce a variety of Scotch Reels
Note. The firft praitifiag ball to be on Tuesday e
vening, the firft of November, and to be continued every
• i Tuesday, during the fealoiu
" I°r terms, tic, enquire at his houfc. No. 134, Market
; ureet.
: 06K eotf,
» New Hat ana Hosiery Store,
Whoxi-sale, and Retail,
; By WILLIAM M'DoUGALL,
t Ao. 134, Market Strtet, $d dotr from the cortier
of Fourth, South Side.
Mens Black American and Engiih Hats, of various aua£*
ities and prices.
Ditto Dra'os and Green-unders* /
Ladies' ditto black
And a large aiTortn;ent of fancy ditto
Coloured Beavers
With a great variety of elagant and fafliioßable tri'itt.
mings' See.
. outh's black arid drab coloured ditto.
Children's fancy ditto
All kinds of tiik, iilk and cotton, cotton and thread- hofc
' Knit coloured Parltalooni
- Ditto Drawers
> Ditto Breeches Patterns
Silk Gloves
Knotted, coloured ditto, cotton. \
A quantity of mending cotton, sorted colours* •
W. B. 1 he hats finifhed in the newest fafhon.
; ° ft - '?• eod,m■■
REMOVED.
The Compting-Hotife of HENRV PHILIPS No,
1 ," 8 ' Spruce-street, to the Corp,r of South Fourth and
, I rune-streets. Ofloher i -j. * 3
i VVaihiiigton Lottery.
5 The twenty-eighth and twenty-ninth days drawine
. are arrived at the office Ne. , 47) Chrfnut-ftr.et.
Prues m the al>ove Lottery are exshanged for ticket,
warranted undrawn.
OC V4- Sn&w,
Ov
For Sale,
A Thrff-ftflry BRICK HOUSE ahd Lot, in CheCnut
street, between Front and Second ftrcets, in which £J;
Mefirs. James Culbraith & Co. have for many years (and
now do) carried on buiinefs.
Pofleflioii will be given in one month, or sooner. ' '
For terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or .
HECTOR CALBRAITH. H
April n. x §
A Manufactory FOR SALE.
A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufa&orv, fltuate j
in a convenient part of the city ; the v. orka atmoft new,
on an entirely original conftru&ion, and built of the bed
materials, sud'm'ay be set to work immediately, f'crfons
whovrrfhto purchase, are refuelled tb apj>ly at No. 273,
South Second Street.
September 13. t t f tf ent
.. Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE.
No. 63 South Third ftreet,oppofite the national new Banlc. T,
OAMUEL M VR-VUNCKS and JOHN VA,N REED, JC
*3 have entered into co-pSrtnerHiip, under the firm of cei
FROUNCES & VAN REED, in the buiinefs of Brokers,
Conveyancers and Commiflion merchants. They buy and
fell 011 commmiosi every species of (lock, notes of hand,
bills of exchange, houses and lands, &c.
procured. on dipofits, &c. &c. all kinds c'
*vritiHg.s in the conveyancing line, done with neatnefsand
; accounts adj lifted, and books fettled, in the 2
most correal manner. Conflant attendance will be given. 20
"They solicit a (hare of the public favor ; they are deter
'aiined to endeavour to deserve it. —
N. B. The utnioft secrecy observed. 2 3
SAMUEL M. rRAUNCES, 40
JOHN VAN REED. _
Philad. August 27, 1796. m&wtf gj
Valuable Real Estate, .nj
For sale at Auction by Cafptr TbttU, of Hamburg,
late the property of fames and William Kinnear. t0
•For sale by public anilion, on the 9th day of November ; n
next ensuing, at the (ign of Gen. Waffiington, Wood's in
tavern, borough of Reading, Berks f ounty.t « follow
ing real estate, viz. co
~ t \ TRACTof land containing 465 acres with mi
ii. allowance for roads,called the Purchase, s Ol
fluated in Brimfwick township, Berks county, patented, eti
18th o 1 Jan.yfjKX "Tiis trad, of which about 25 acres
are cleared, is of good frm, situated on the Tomagua, or
Little Schuylkill, well watered anfl timbered, on which is ,
crecled a good log dwelling house and liable.
No. 1. A tr»<S of unimproved Und, containing 284 a
cres, with allowance, &c. called Hopewell, patented zßtji —<
October, 1790, situated in Brunfwick townlhip, Berks '
county, foil good. »
No. 3. A tra<£ of unimproved land, containing 376 a- T
crcs with allowance, &c. called Hillfburg, patented 28th -I
Oflolter 1790, situation, &c. as N0,2. T
No. 4. A tradl ®f unimprdved land, containing 388 a- ,cil
•eres, with allowance, &c. patented 28th of OAober,
situation, &c. as No. 2 and 3. da
No. j. A trad of land, containing 268 acres, and 57 to
■perches, with allowance, &c. situated in Brunfwick tcAvn- m
ship, Berks county, 011 Tomagua,'or little Schuylkill, 5 ar
miles above the town »f Hamburg,on which" is creeled a
well finilhed two (lory squared log dwelling house, 23 of
feet by 35, within the daftance ofioo perchesfrom a forgp, w
with the advantage of a ferry and public house; these ad
vantages fender this trail very valuable. th
No 16. A town lot in Hamburg, enclosed with a poll a>
and rail, or board fence, containi'ig in front, 60 feet, and
in depth 18® feet, fubjeA to a ground rent of 7/6 per an- p
num.
No. 17. A town lot in Hamburg, enclofedasno 16,t0 ae
which it adjojns,being of the fame dimensions, andfubjeil hi
to the faipe ground rent,on which is eredted a log ftuble, re
16 by 18 feet a!
No. 18. A town lot in Hamburg, adjoining to No. 17,
a corner lot, fronting on Main and Schuylkill streets, di- tl
jn.nfions the fame as No. 16 and its, above described, sub- re
je&toio/o per annum ground rent. Oil this lot is er
efled a large 2 story dwelling house, 45 feet front on Main ei
street, by 34 feet in depth 011 Schuylkill street, pleasantly la
and advantagcoufty situated for a flora. h
N. B. The above described three town lots will be fold fe
tparately or together, as may bell suit the purch. fers. ir
Conditions of sale—One third of the purchase 'money
to be paid to the subscribers, Or either of them ia Philadel- -
«hia, at or before the expiration of one month frem the
Jay of sale, when a deed of conveyance will be executed {
the rtfidue payable in 2 equal payments, at 6 and 12 month* 1
with intereft,the payment whereof to be secured by mort
gaje on the premises. , 0
James Henderfon, ] Affigneesto *'
FVeder'ick Montmollin, I the estate of -
Thomas Rogers, r James &Wtn. a
'Joseph D. Drinker, J Kinnear. si
September 16. m & th. Pr
———————r
Treasury Department, "
September 28', iys6. "
NOTICE is hereby given, that proposals will be re
ceived at the office of the Secretary of the Treasury "
until the expiration of the firft day of March next en- "
suing, for the supply of all rations which may he required "
for the use of tne United States, from the firft day of "
Jtune, 1797, to the thirty-firft day of May, 1798, both "
days inclusive, at the places and within the diftriels here- "
after finentioned, viz. At Ofwego; 2t Niagara ; at "
Pjefque Me.; at Sandulky Lake, and on Sanduflcy "
River; at Detroit; at Michilimaekinac; at Fort-Frank- "
lin; at Pittfburgli; at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hamilton ; "
at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-JsfFerfon; at Grenrille; at "
Piique Town and Loramics Store; at Fort Adams; at
Fort Wayne; at Fort atany place bslow Fort 1
-Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Erie; at Fort r
Steuben ;at Fort Maffac ;at uny place from Fort Maffac C
to the south boundary of the United States on the river \
Miffifippi; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiatanon. c
If fupplics lhall be required (or any pods or places not i
mentioned in this notice, alj such supplies lhall be fur- t
tiiflied at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the'
posts before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed on j
between the United States and the Contractor.
The rations to be supplied are to coilfift of the fol
lowing articles, viz. f
Ofle pound two ounces of bread or flour.
One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounces of {
pork or bacon.
Half a gill of rum, rr whilkey. ,
One qtiart .ind half a piiit of falt."N ,
Two quarts of Vinecar, ( , , , .
1 wo pounds of Soap, ( P cr |
One pound Of Csne'le-, J - „ j
The rations are to be furnifhed in such quantities, as that 1
there (hall at all times c'uring the said term, be fuflicient 1
for the consumption of the troops at Michib'mackinac, De
troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, for the term of fix month* in
advance, and at eachoflhe other polls, for the term of
at least three months in advance, in good aad wholesome
provifions,if the fame (Hall be required. It is to be un
ditrflood, tjiat tile i to beat the expence and
rffc of iffuirgtl efuppli#? to the troops at each poll, and
♦hat all losses ftiftaintd by the depredations ofaa enemy, or
by means of the troops of the United States, (hall be paid
for at the price of the artichs captured or destroyed, on
the deposition? oft\/o or more perfonsof creditable cha
racters, and the certificate of a conimiflioncd officer, af
cci taining ti c circumflances of the loss, and the amount
•f the ai tides for which compensation (hall be claimed. j
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.,
JOHN MILLER, fun. & Co.
No. 8, CHESNUT STREET,
Hare Imported in the late vefleis from Europe, &c. »-
AND HAVE LOR SALE,
A geseral assortment of GOODS, faitable to the fcafon — V
Amongst which are,
BROAD and narrow CLOTHS,
Plain and twill'd COATINGS, St
Rose flriped a»d point BI.ANKETS,
FLANNELS and BA.ISES, ~
HATS alforted in cases,
IRISH LINENS, g
INDIA GOODS, generally,
A Consigned Invoice of IRONMONGERY,
Comprising a capital assortment to open actore —inclu-
ding Thirty Caifics of J>IAILS. This invoice will be fold
entire on very advantageous terms. (
September 20. d
Lottery
FOR raising fixthoufand fix hundred and sixty-seven
dollars and fifty cents, by a dedu&iou of fifteen per
cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a prize, viz
I Prize of 5000 dollars is dollar» 5000
I iooo 1000
t 500 soo
5 200 loco
20 ICO 1000
9? jo 495°
200 2.5 • 5000
2000 IO " 20,000
5 Last drawn numbers of 1003 dollars each, 5000 _
2332 Prizes. 44,4j0
4018 Blanks. '
6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44AS 0
By order of the Diredlors of the Society for eftablifh
mg Ufeful Manufactures, the fuperintendants of the Pat
erfon Lottery have requested the Managers to offer the j
foregoing Saheme tAthe public, and have directed them
to refund the money,to those persons who have purchased
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
in this Lottery.
The lottery has a&ually commenced drawing, and will y .
continue until finilhed. A lift of the Blanks and Priaes p
may be seen at the office of William Blackburn, No. 64 jr
south Second street, who will give information where tick- j
ets may b« procured. * s
Dated this 17th day of June, 1796.
J. N- CUMMING, ~) .<
JACOB R. HARDENBERG, >-Managers.
JONATHAN RHEA, ) ,1
dtf eo w
Samuel Rfchardet, 0
RESPECTFUI.LY informs the Gentlemen
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY a
TAVERN and MERCHANTS OOFFEE HOUSE in the "
■ city of Philadelphia: J
The Subscription Room will be furnilhed with all the
daily papers publiflied in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos
ton, Baltimore, together with thole of the principal com- 11
merciai citi«s of Europe—They will be r-gularly filed
and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety 0
of French liiquors; together with the ufiial refrefhments, 11
, will at all times be procured at the bar. .
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the mofl
approved Malt Liquors from London and br.her breweries. *
. The Larder will be supplied with the prime and earliest
productions of the Sqafon.
Large and small Parties, or single Gentlemen, may be
> accommodated with Broakfdfts, Dinners, fir Suppers, at
hours mod convenient to tkc-mleWos—a cold Collation is S*
, regularly-kept for ccnveniency, the iSillof Fare to be had
at the bar.
, The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifhed, and c
■ the utmost attention paid to cleanliness, and every other
• requlfite.
S\muel Richardet will be happy to receive, and
i execute the commands of his Friends, and tie Public at J
r large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges °
himfelf that nothing on his part lhall be wanting to pre-
I ierve that patronage With he has been so diiiinguifli
ingly j'ionored.
r Philadelphia, April 19. tows
• Treasury of the United States. J
' TOT ICE is bereliy given to all persons who are or
IN may be Creditors of the United States; for any sums
of the funded Deit, cr Stock, tearing a pr'fent intereji oj fix
per centum per annum. i
> 1 ft, That pursuant to afi Acl of Congrefi pal Ted on the
f sEth day of April, 1796, intitledun a<S in addition to an j
• a&, intituled " An ail making fuither provision for the
support of public emdit, and for the redemption of the
.public debt," the said dfbt or dock will be reimburled and
. paid in manner following to wit. " First, by dividends
" to be made on the lall days of March, June and Septem
" her for the present year, ind from the year onethoufand '
" seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year one thou
. « s a nd eight hundred & eighteen inclufive,at the rate of
f " ope and one half per centum upon the original capital.
- " Secondly, by dividends to be made on the lad day of t
1 " December (or the present year, aHd from the year oae
f " thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven, to ihe year ,
1 " one thousand eight hundred 'andVeventeen inclusive, at (
- " the rate of three and one half per centum upon the ori
t " ginal capital; and by a dividend to be nu eon the lall f
■f " day of December, in the year one thousand eight hun- {
- " drcd and eighteen, of such fmn, as will be then ade
; " quate, according to the contrail, for the final redemp
t " tion of thefaid stock."
t 2d. All diftiifotion between payments on account of
t Interefl and Principal being thus aboliftied by the eftabliih
t mcnt of the permanent rule of reimbursement abova de
c {cr'Aed, it has l «tome neeeffary to vary accordingly the :
r powers of attorney for receiving dividends; the public '
creditors will therefore observe that the following form '
t is eftabiilhedfor all powers of attorney which may b* '
- granted after the due promulgation ot this notice, vie. '
e' ° KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that 1
" I «/ t
dommalte t conjliiute and appoint
[- of my true and lawful At- t
(orney,/or me, and in my name y to receive the dividend* -which are, {
or Jball be payable according to law> on the (hci i describing the t
>f itock) Jland'ing in my name in the books of (here dcfcribing the j
books of the Treasury or the Commiffioncr of Loans,
where the stock is credited) fiotn (here insert tke com
mencement and expiration of time for which the power of
attorney i? to continne) ivitJj poiver alfu an attprney or attor
niet i under hint, for that purpoft to male and and t» do ail
lawful a£h reyuifitefor tjfttHing thepremifes, hireby ratifying and
it confmirrg all lhat my fetid Attorney cr bis lawful-
It ly do, by virtue hereof. \
e- In IVitnefs hereof I have hereunto set my Hand and Seal the
in day of in the year
of Sealed and Delivered '
le in of,
n- BE rr KNOWN, that on the day rf
id efore me person ally came
id -within named and acknowledged the above letter of attorney to 'be
or bis nSI and deed.
id In teJHmony whereof I have hereunto set my Han i and ajfix
3rt od Seal the day and year lap afortjaid.
a- • Given under my Hand at Philadelphia, ;his twen
if- tieth day of July 1796, jxurfuant to dire&ions
nt from the Secretary «f the Treasury
SAMUEL MEREDITH,
Ircafvrcr of the VniUd States.
July 23. *»& »* 1 J.
For Sale,
A Complete Font of Busier,
ENi.'rely new , and yet unopened. The weight of litis
font is about 31a lb. It is from the Poundery o
■ WiHon &Sons,Glal'gow, ?u! j will be fold at cost & charges. °<
Alio for Sale, a pair of Super Royal Chaics. '
Enquire at the Office of the Gazette of the United n<
States, 119 Chcfnut-drtet. J"
September 17. r . Ic
~ r TCit) Cf Wathington. p!
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11, _
(OR THE IMPROVEMENT 0 t THE
FEDERAL CITY
i Atfnagnificent 7 ao,ooo doffars, & 7 - 0 QOO C
dwelling-houle, ) calk 30,000, are 5 ' )
I ditto 15,000 & cafli 15,000 40,000 C
r ditto 15,000 & raft 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & cash 10,000 20,000
, I ditto & calh 5,000 10,000 cli
r I ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000 ' u
I cash prize of 10,000 ((
3 i do. 5,000 each, are • 10,000 (I
d 10 do. 1,000 - • 10,000
0 10 do. 500 ■ - 10,000
0 00 do. 100 - - X»)OUO g t
~ 100 do. JO 10,000
3 4CO do. »5 * " 10,000 t l,
0 1)000 do. 40 - 20,000
3 15,000 do. 10 • * 150,000
0 '
16,73$ Prizes.
3 3i,»6i Blanks. p
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000 g
, lo
N. B. To hvour those who may take a quantity ol in
" Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the last drawn
c ticket, awd the 30,000 the last but one :
™ And approved notes, securing payment in either mdncy
or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be received for
5 any number not less than 30 tickets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of thepri
vate buildings to be erefled in the City of Washington—
:s Two beautiful deGgns are already fele&ed for the entire _
4 fronts on two of the public squares; from these prJwings
it ispropofed two centreand four corner baildings,
as fiion aspollible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
them, when comple»c, to the fortunate adventurers, in V
the mannerdefcribed in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery. *
'• A nett deduiljon of live per cent, will be made to defray tv
the necessary Cipenfes of printing, &c. and the surplus a
will be made a part of the fund intended for the National t0
Usiverfity, to be creeled within the city of Washington.
"She Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
n fold off.—The money prizes will be payable in thirty days
j after it is finilhsd ; and any prizes for which fortunate
numbers ate not produced within twelve months after the
drawing is closed, are to be conlijcrcd as given towards
e the fund for tl . University ; it being determined to fettle
the whole business in a year from the elding of the draw
ing, and to take up the bonds given as security.
j The real securities given for the payment of the Prizes,
are held by the President and two Directors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
■ mount ot the lottery.
' The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of
i, the late Commissioners aflifled in the management of the
U Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake this arduous talk
s a second time on behalf of the public ; a fufficient num
p ber of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
friends to a National Univerlity and the other federal ok-
jeSs may continue to favor the delign.
lt By accounts received from the different parts of the .
j s Continent as well as from Europe, where the ticket!
J have been sent for l'ale, the public are allured that ths n
drawing will speedily commen«, and that the can: and ,
J caetion unavoidably necessary to insure a fafe disposal, of
th« tickets, has rendered the Ihort fufpejifion indispensable.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
d *§# Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; o
James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter Gilman, Bolton
„ 5 of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wnlls
.. Cpoper's Ferry. eo
Watson's Answer to Gibbon.
JUST RECEIVED,
And for sale by J. ORMROD, No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet, j
Apology for Christianity,
. lb In a feriet of Letters, addrejjed to I
£dward Gibbon, Es<^.
Author of the History of the Decline and Fall of the f
Rofnan Empire:
Bv R. H'ATS ON y d. d. f. r. s. Bilhop of Landaff. ° T
(Price 75 cents bound )
,d Watson's Anfwcr to Paine, p
is To be had at the fame place. t<
1- The enemies of Religion are awake! Let not -her
id friends Jleep*
•*- Sept. 1. * nvvv&ftf
t ~~ NOTICE.
' 1 'HE Subscriber, having been rcduced in his circum
" ,e X fiances, by fuudry misfortunes, and being thereby u
ar nuablc to fitisfy his just debts, Hereby give« notice to his 1
Creditors and to all pcrfons concerned, that he intends to 1;
apply to the General Affcmbly of Maryland at their next b
fcllion to be held on the firft Monday of November neat. {!
n " for the benefit of an act of insolvency. o
e " WILLIAM JZDMONDSON a
P" Eafton, ift of the Qth month. 1 7q6. 0
To be fold, 1
j\ "PLANTATION, in the town of Woodbury, coHn
-1 il tyof Gloucoter, aud ftaje of New-Jersey, contain
|ic ing about one hundred and fifty acres; a suitable propor
tion of which is woodland and improved meadow. A
k great patt of th« arable land is in a high state of Cultiva
tion, and very natural to the production of Red Clover.
On said plantation there is a genteel two-flory brick hosfe, I
"**' with four rooms on a floor, and a good dry cellar under
the whole ; together with a barn, corn-..ribs and carriage- j
Ihe g rden islarge, and contains a good collec
tion of the belt iJnds of grafted and inoculated fruit trees; 1
the orchard confilts of about three hundred grafted apple- (
jj e trees.. Any perlon inclined to purchase said premiles, may (
be informed of the terms by applyiuj to
ANDREW HUNTER. '
of J-''y *9 J i
7u To be Sold, !
' nJ At No. 128, North Second-Street, and by federal oj (
the Apothecaries in this City.
TRANSFERS of the right to remove pains and inflamma
tions hv>m the human at tecured to Dr. ELISHA 1
PERKINS* by patent, with instruments and direst ions bc> 1
cetTaiy for the practice. This mode of treatment is particu- <
larly ufefnl in relieving paios in the head, face, teeth, brcaft,
fide, stomach, hack, rbeum<itifm», recent gouts, &c. Ac. (
Notwithllanding the utility of this practice, it is not pre
> fumed but there are cases in which this and every otbei
remedy may fometvmcs fail.
fix. juue i.
en _ To be disposed of,
on , ' I time of a healthy NEGRO WOMAN, who
X ,ias between f®ur and five years to serve: She
can be for her sobriety and For
particulars enquire at No. 137, Chel'nut-ftrcct.
y. August j. 1 \,Altf
1
Mr. FRAN C 1 S,
(Of the' New Theatre)
this opportunity of returning thapks tc hh>
1 fdidlars and to the public. Mr. Fr.uic:s intends,
on his return from Maryland, to open a public aca
demy for dancing, upon a plan entirely new. He
flatters hin.li.-lf that his attention to his pupils hi
therto renders any ]fi»uiifes of conducing his future
schemes on the moll liberal and ftriclcft terras, of pro
priety, totJiliy unnecefiary.
A r . B. Private tuition as ufoal.
Jane 3 n w
No. 154.
DiJlriß of Pennfylvttnia, to luit ;
f T> Eit remem eredtha; on the 26th dayof Sep.
< seal V O tembcr.in the twency-firll yc.,rof the Uida-
C j peiulence of the United States of America A.
braham Bradley, junior c.i'the said Duui.sl,liath <Ji-jiofitc I
in this office, the title of * Map, tha right whcrtcv l.e
claims as author in the words folio wi :g to wit,
"Map of the United States exhibiting the situations
" connexions & diftancesof the Polt-Qflicet, Stag,' -roads
" Counties, Ports of Entry and Delivery for Fore, m vol
" icls, and the principal rivers,
" By ABRAHAM BRADLEY, jnn."
In conformity to the A A of the Congress of the United
States intituled " An ail for the eocourag; ia#pt of learn ■
ing by fecunng the copies of maps, charts and books to
the authors and proprietors of such copies darin" the
times therein mentioned."
Samuel Caldwell, Clerk,
IJifiriS of Pcnnfylvania.
The above map may be had of the author at the General
Pod-Office, next door to the War-Office in Fifth-Street
and at his houf_, No. -jB, corner Of Crown Street and
Brewers Alley betwaen 4th and 1 th, and Vine and CaJ
lowhill Sreet» Prices from tot dollars each. accord
ing to the manner ill which they are fiuiflied.. The pro*
grels (or arrivals anJ departures) of the Mail on the Maia
Line may be had separate lor cccnts.
Oft. >• _____ law6w.
IV ANTE L>,
sir. APPRENTICE to the P rifting Buftnefs.
Enquire atthis Office. AU K-J>
; YVafhington Canal Lottery,
nO. r.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorised
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thoul'and,
twohundred, and fifty dollars, for the purppfe of cultinj
a Canal through the City of Walhingtou, fro>.i th
touiac to the Eastern Branch Harbour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. 1.
Viz ■ -i Prize of ip,ooo dollars, »0,000
1 ditto 10,000 . 10,000
7 last drawn ">
Tickets,each j ■*' 000 35,000
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,00®
30 ditto ICO tfiOO
55 ditto 50 4,750
5750 ditto II 69,008
To be raised for the Canal, 16,150
5850 Prizes, l?5,Coo
11650 Blank?, not two to a priz*. ■'
■ *
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
0" The Commiflioners have taken the Securities re
* quired by the aforefaid ael for the punilual payment cf
the prizes.
The drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
~ delay, as soon as th* Tickets are fold, of whiA timely
. notice will be given.
J Such prizes as arc not demanded in fix months after tha
f drawing is finifhed, ihall be consider.d as relir.tjuifced for
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordiiwlr.
(Signed j - NOTLEY YOUNG,
. DATCIEL CARROLL, of IS.
LEWIS DEBLOJS,
s GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M. DUNCANS ON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of Walhingtoo, Feb. 11. £
:, At a fpscial meeting of the Board of Di
rectors for ejlablijhing vfeful Mmiufaclurcs, hold:*
at Pat erf on, 'July 8, I 796-,
ESOLVED, That a fpecnil meeting of the Stock
iv holders of the Society be called on the £r(t Monday,
e being the third ay of Oiiober next, at Patcrfon, by tec
r of the clock of the fame day ; then and there to take
! - into cenlidcration the propriety of dissolving the f'aii
corporation, agreeably to the law ja such cafe Made and
provided—and the Stockholders are earnefily rccjvelled
to attend the laid meeting in person or by proiy.
Augull 2,7 ckJOthO
FOR SALE.'
A PLANTATION,
ABOUT in miles from this City, situate in Abing
ton Township, Montgomery-County ; containing
* 70 a*rr», a new (lone houie, two ftorits high, 1 rooms 011^
0 i!oor, tiie places in each, a (lone kitchen and Hone ftrin%
t Louse, over an excellent fprinj of water, a banrt,
.. Ihcds, banacks, &c. A larce orchard, aifd a 1 varicivirf
otherfruit, about is acres of good meadow well
artl wood fufficient for fire, and fencing the placc. *
vj on may be had the 3ft 'of Ap,il next. Pr«perty in thi* city
~ will betake,, in exchange, or MORRIS and NICHOLSONS
Notes in payment. Enqui.e at No. 37, Arch-Strect.
Philadelphia, September 13, 179b, ttftf
FOR SALE,
A very Valuable Eitate,
CALLED TJVI7TENHAM, situate in the
towr.fhip of Upper Derby, aiidcounty6f Delaware,
r 71-2 miles from Philadelphia, and half *a mile from the
"" new Weftcrn road: containing 230 acres of excellent land,
45 of which are good watered mcedow, 90 of prime wood
- 5» land, and the refl arable ©f tha firlt quality.' I hefe arc
on the preroifes a good two story brick house, with 4 rooms
i y on a floor, and cellars under the whole, witty a pump-weH
of excellent water in front; a large frame, barn, ftablcs,
and other convenient buildings; a /moks-houfe and (tone,
spring-house ; two good apple orchards, and one of poach
es. The fields are all in clover, except thole immediately
under tillage, and are so laid oat as to have the advantage
of water in each of them, which renders it peculiarly con
venient for grazing.
j The situation is plcafantandhealthy, and from the high
eultivitioii of the land, the go,od neighbourhood, and the
-- vicinity to the city, it is vary suitable for a gentleman's
I. country feat. '
11, The forgoing is part of the ellate of Jacob Harman,
deceifed, and offered for sale by
c " • Mordecai Lewis,
CI '
Oil. 9. tt&f Surviving Executor.
PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO,
10 J
be No. 110
or
* CH ESNWT-STREET.
["Pricc Eigkt Dollars per Ano not.]
1