oft Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
, rl j> " SATURDAY EVENING* fULT q, [Volvmc X.
M-wrm 1196.3 s ( — rrrr.— —
CjkL For Sale,
(♦ ?♦} (On a liberal, credit) JL
VV;- The fad failing copper-bottomed BRIG for
Safe-''2 Amiable Mati.da, mte,
IN compleat order for sea, with a ircigl4 0,. nan,
, - SAMUEL oMITH, aroicr, imri
T') ,u § .on 1
J"'y 7- M»
For Sale,
m faft '" about f" r *r^'v ht IR
1 be made a Packet of at a small expenfc,—wants ye- J V
rylittle to be fated for a Welt-Ihdia voyage Apply to abo
Samuel Breck, jun.
Rofs's Wharf. f nla
Jtfirrt may he had, a few cloa
French Silks and id quality French g
Broadcloths.
July 7 .
For MADEIRA,
. The Bchooner
FR 1E NDS H I Pi' P
mjzm, Stephen Curtis, tnafter, I
AN exceeding good vefTel, will -fail in
the course of ten days. For freight er passage apply to
the matter on hoard, at Chefnut-ftreet wharf, or to
JOS. ANTHONY and Co.
July 5. * lw
For Sale or Charter,
2009 Bbls. of floor—lhe may be fert
to lea at a small cxpence', her fails aiHf*frigging being i-1
«ry«oodordw— IT , „
Jantes Camp be'l, or -
George Latimer.
April, »9- $
Snow Hebe. J
FOR SALB, ° n
ThC S "° W " U£ ' lar
A faithful Philadelphia buik veflel, car-
wei 1,3000 bushels of grain or 2600 barrels flour, it rea
dy to take in a cargo. She is about fo-.ir yearaoid.
7 Apply to PETi-R BLIGHT.
Who has for sale,
Sugar, Coffee, Cocoa, and Pimento.
AWb,
A Parcel of CHOICE PORT WINE,
June 6 t0 "
FOR SALE,
THE Oargo of the (hip Catharine, John Farraday, mas f
ter, from Hifpaniola, at the wharf of Messrs. Jeffs & fto L
bert Wain, .
Consisting of ' "
Hog&eads of SUGAR
51 Hogfticads*) cof?FEE
2cß Baq;s j
44 Hhd«.of Clarified MOLASSES
72 Bales of Cotton
also ro* »Ate,
The said ship,
BURTHEN about 24 or 2500 barrels— _
Strong, well found, and may be sent to
at a small expeofe. Apply to
John Craig'.
June It' ■ , ■ -jT. - M
jggkn For Hamburg, Ni
Ma,, THE AMERICAN SHIP
HARRIET,.;.
Thomas W. Ncrman, Commander,
A remarkable fine, fad-failing lhip, 'with excellent accorn- Cf
modat ions for passengers. A considerable pa-rt'of
engaged and ready to go on board, and is expe&ed to fail in
10 days, for freight or passage, apply to the captain on ~~
board, the lower fide of Vvalr.ut-ftreet wharf, or to >i
Peter Kuhn.
Jttne aS
' Mr. F k ANCIS,
{Of the New Theatre)
TAKES this opportunity of returning thanks to his
scholars and to the public. Mr. Francis intends, lii
on his return from Maryland, to open a public aca
demy for dancing, upon, a Jijan .entirely new. He
flatters himlelftlnt Bis attention to fiir pupiirnr-
thfto renders any promises of conducing his future
schemes on the mnu liberal and flrifleft terms, of pro
priety, totally unneceflary.
N. B. Private t,uition as ufuil.
FOR S A L E v
THE unexpirsd time of a MULATTO BOY, who has
several years to serve, and be Avcll recommend
«d for honesty and fobri ty. Enquire of the Prip-ter.
J»ly 7- §' w
'"wenty Dollars Reward.
' awav frr.m the SabTcriber, living near Haniiburgh,
. oiio-v of Dauphin, and Stateof Pennsylvania, on Sun
n A NFGRO MAN, namfd SAM, about 17 Or
10 v sos ase, 5 fecr, 7or 8 inches high ; no particular
4:but »pt «o look down when charged with a fault. Mad
e I took awyy* a home-madr cloth coat,, and overalis of
"i ue, ftriptd jean jacket, fell hat, alraoft new, calf skin
and white ftiirt.
Ine abr>Ve teward will be paid to any person who will fe
•cure said negro in any goal, so that his maftcr may hear of
the fame, and teafonablc charges paid, x if brought home to
RICHARD DEARMOND.
June 29 *eodiw
JO'S E P H CO O KE,
GOLDSMITH JEWELLER,
The corner of Market and Third-streets, Philadelphia;
MOST refpeftfully informs his friends and the public,
that he has received, per the last arrivals, a com
plete and general assortment ofalmoft
Every Article in his Line;
Immediately from the manufactures of Londofe, Bir
mingham, and Sheffield, all of whieK are of the newest
falbion, and w*ill be fold, wholefalc and retail, on the .aw
eft terms, and the Notes of Mr. Robert Morris, and Mr. .
JohnNicholfon received in payment at their current value,
N. B. The upper part of theHoufe in which he now
, lives to be let, fr.rniftied or unfurnilhed. law
"WWARirSTOW, jun.
HA 5 moved his accompting house from No. 4, South
Water-fireet, to 76, North Front ftriet.
S' w
Take Notice,
THAT the Subscriber intends to maice applica
tion for tfa renewal of a Certificate, No. 1609, T
for 4000 HoU irn, dated the 14th Detembrr, 1795, bearing j
inte*ft at s£p< .- cent Iroia ill January, 1796, ii» the *
- name of David rdale & Co. of Loeds, in V*ik- '
Ihire, merchaiits. Tl»e fame iifappofed to have been loft
j on i'.jwiv to New York, under cover to Blee«k«r &
March, of thatplacc, on the 6th tf January last-
Thoma# M'Euen.
Philadelphia, aldjuoc, 1796.
FIFTY DOLLARS REWARD. 1
t TJ AN away from the TuWcriber living near Church
- I IV Hill, Qu-en « nns County in the State of Maryland*
1 about the tirlt of Jajiuary last, ablack negro man,named
Sam, about thirty years of age, 5 feet 8 or 9 inches high,
has a crooked finger on one hand, and one leg and foot
fnialler than the other, somewhat rsund-Ihouldsred, his
eloathing unknown. Any person who will feture or
bring said fellow home, so that 1 may get him agiin fhatl
kave the above reward with reasonable charges. In
WILLIAM JACOBS.
June «. *lawim,
A small Invoice
PER the ship Harriet, capt.Thomas W. Norman, from £
Hamburgh, confiding of
Ravens Duck,
2 Damalkand l XabUC loth«
Diaper j
Holland Linen
Cambrics, Sec.
' < it>«o, J
A NEAT Of j
Gold and iilver Watches. n
' Which will be difpefed of together or by the package.
i , Apply to '
fsaae Harvey, jun.
No. j South Water Street. f"
June 45 '• 1
rSN UE'VAitQ. 1
g ml' mfeHk f -i
- TUNE s.'ti t streets, a red c
J VOR inir.g a Check
on the Ba: by Peter and i
Henry M" , for i,coe> dot- t
lars, and lev :ogether with a r
(hare in-tie • it papers of no a
ir " conlequente but r<
Whoev. ' to No. i rket street, lhall c
receive the . : :ovi rev
N.B. Pay.'Mnt of the Check « f d the Bank.
June 15. 5 '
■At. "tiSrJes. ~ ;
The, Cargo at t vsa;.;;;s! cap:, •. inguy, from Cal
cutta and Bengal, j
COM.uTIMO or
las /* Lar{* general afforftnertt of Bengal and Madras 1
J.O rVi COITON »BdKIIiKGOODS.
AMONG WHICH ARE
A variety fine wbrked andplain Mujlins,
Doreas, Itfc. A lfo,
A Quantity of Exce''ent Sugar,
la boxes and bags—and BI#ACK PEPPEB-.
For Sale by
Willings ££ Francis,
No. 21 Pecn Street.
June 8 § ,
Fifty Dollars Reward.
Los r,
T'HF lift evening, between 1; and 1 o'clock, a large Red
* ~± MOROCCO POCKET-HOOi;, con aiwinfr 20 or 30 j
Notes oi Hand (inclosed in a parchment) to a confic'erable a
mount. \lfo, fundrv paorrs, ■ rtrifira'cs "01 6 per cent,
stock, a deed of a house and lot ift &c Sc &ic.
Thc,above reward wil' be paid o » *he fame to
the Pi inter hereof. As it is.»f jjrejtconfequence to the owu
ei, uis hoped will n»l be wnhheJH.
0 ; s Thepavmcat of the Notes is ft oped.
I in
•B ————— —r—r—: •
New Hat and Hofiery-fto.re,
WHOLESALE 4NT) V.F.TAJT,
- By WILLIAM M'DOITGALL,
AU. 134_ Mirhet-llieeti
Third door trom the corner )f Fourth, f'- uth fide
bi« Men'a Black American and E HAs ,oi various qua
ds, lilies and prices
10a- oUfo Drabs and Green unders
H e Ladies 1 ditto, black, and a Urge afTortment of fancy
jjj.- ~c*noured and
faTKionablc Tniftraiwgt.
Youths Black and Drabmoloured do.
,ro " Children's fancy do
All kinds of Silk, Silk & Cotton, Cotton & Thread HOSE
_ Knit, coloured Pantaloons
Do. Drawers
Do. Breeches Patterns
II as Silk Gloves
:nd- Knotted, coloured do. Cotton
A quantity of Mending Cu ton, sorted colours,
.v The Hats finifheain the newell fafhion.
June 27. eo*m
* ghi Kofs <k Simfon,
Hm- HAVE FOR. SALI|
7 6r French Checks
Had St " PeS
Printed Cottons
0 Muflir.ets
Tsble Cloths and Napkin s
1 fc _ Nankoens of an excellent qualify per the package, fit
, r c f for the Weft India market, and entitled to the Drawback
to Qrcy Ginger in bags
Superior-old Sherry in quarter calks
w A few pipes and qtiirter calks Lilbon Wines
June 21 § 2W
For sale by the fubferibers,
J\ ia ' IN PtNN-STREBT,:
quarter Che'.ts frelh Hyson Tea;
100 ditto do. frdh Souchong Tea;
300 Boxes China, containing small tea setts of 42
pieces;
Bir- 400 pieces Bandar.oes.
weft WiUinz & Frctncis.
.aw- T 6
Junnarv ,30 .^taw.
now VVaOiington l ottery, JN'o. 2.
aw r Public ato refpe«flfuHy informed that the firft
X day's drawing, is arrived at the oftiee No. 147, Chef
nut-ftrect, between Fourth ar.d Fi(th-ftreets, where a cor
outh rc£b Numerical Book will be till the conclusion-
Tickets and information given where they
w may brhad. July 7. $ti
Wm. HOLDERNESSE,
No. 76 High Street,
HAS received, 6y the fat ft arrivals from Europe and p
the T*a(l Indies, a well fclecied assortment of onk V-i
Mere*ty,LrhßnQrapery and Haberdashery Goods; which J 1
he will fell, Wholcf.de and Retail, on the loweil terms ; new
AIIONrtST WaiCH ABE, AS «
Some EnejinJia muslins emorpiflcrcd with gold and silver Una
SuptfnnCßook, Jaconet, aad Mulmul ditto on t
Jja do do cfo Handkerchiefs on a
Some «tra blacktaffe'tics.luteftriiigsand colored Pcrfuns of e
ttandkerchiefs .
Long and .Tiort Nanite«ns 'f
Enttlifc Mantuas of the firftquality e3 -
1 Damafic table linen and ur.pTtirK, very fine ui;i
---' Silk Hosiery, an el-'gant assortment
1 Thead and cotton do vcn .
» Umbrellas—gretn f;ik, oil'd do. and do cloth
L French cambrics, very fine, e V
» Irish Linens, do. &c. &c. June 14 § v " 11
r rr j ve Co^'
In the Ssow Boston, James Kirkpatrick, master from Li- j ec(
verpool,
5000 BulheU SALT ;
100 Crates QUEENS WARE ; and
An Aflsrtment of SHIP CHANDLEKY ;
Foßs A l E
*On board, at Pine-street wharf. Apply to r-j
---yame's Campbell, or J
:, / George Latimer. car i
A P ril * Yel
For Sale, Pet
A Three ftojy BRICK HOUSE and I.ot, in Chefnut Lu
street, between Front and Sepo-.d streets, in which Sat
Messrs. James Calbraith Sc Co. have for many years (and Se\
now do) carried on buCnefs. Ve
Pcifefliou will bejgtven in one month, or sooner. Ca!
For terms apply to WILLIAM t EELL, or Qii
HECTOR CALBRAITH. ]
Ap«jl 21.. , !
Samuel Richardet, '
* p ERP?CTFULLY informs the Gentlemen ]
IV Merchants, the.t he has this day opened the CITY J
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEE HOUSE in the (
:d city of Philadeh hia;
:k The Subscription Room will be furnilhed with aj the
d daily papers puMifiied in Philadelphia, Bof
1* toil, Baltimore, together with tholt' of the principal com
a mercial citi*s of Europe—-They wiH be regularly filed
10 and none permitffedito'-b: taken away on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Boup.es, Jellie?, Ice Creams, and a variety
i)t of Frunchl iquors; together with the usual refrefhments,
will at all times b j procured at the bar.
Gentlemen depend on Being accommodated with
the choiccft of Wine*, Spirituous Liquors, and the moflf I
approved Malt Liquors' from London and other breweries.
The'l.ardor be supplied with the p>*ime and earliest
r.rodud:*ia".s of thoScafon.
{ \_ Large ar.d small Parties, or single Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with Brealsfafts, rfinfaVrs, or Supper?, at
hours moll cqnv nient to tlv.iniclves —a cold Collation i>
'as tegular iyt kept fdr convcniency, the Bill of Fare to be had to
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifhei, and cie
the utmoß attention paid to cleanliness, and every other
requiOte.
0- S<MtJEL Rlchardst will be happy to receive, and is<
the commafids of his Friends, and the Public at
larofe; and wich gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfelf tliAt nojtbing. on his part ihall be wanting to y 1
serve tliat patronage with which he has been so diftinguiih- jr<
injiy Honored. ?
Philadelphia, A pril 19. §
- TO BE LET. c c °
A Commodious dwelling Hnufc, No. 124
Spruce street, with a convenient liable: and Coach,
, Houfe,—Alio for sale a Chariot but little the worse for th
use. June eott ff
nr. George Dobson, "
CC * T>F.GS leave to inform the Store-Keeper® in Town and
l ° Country, that be has removed from Market-Street to
N°- 25, south Third-street,
where be is opening a Large and Elegant Assortment of tht jj.
undermentioned article -—viz. ft
-*> Superfine London Cloths and Kerseymeres, f,
a YOl WThire second Do. Do. ; s
-J do. do. a
Mix'd and Blue Coatings v
Flannells. &C. a
Manchclier Printed Callieoes,
London Chiniz ditio, '
Blue and ditto FurnjtU'es,
UJ .' India ditto, .
Long Cloths, Colftes, Baftas, Battillasfc Conjevrcms,
4-4 9-8 J-4 &16-4 Sup«fine India Book MuQins,
4-4 and g-8 India Book Handkerchief*,' '
ind 4-4 aoil ditto, —- —: ~ ~~
P'aiodo. Muflii-r"" £
4-4 &«. 4 BMtilh JSSoneis, 1
6-4 Ei itilh Checks and Stripes, <]
)SE 4"4 India do. do. do. c
4-4 ditto Chilloes, Madras Handkerchiefs, &c.
A large affonuncnt of-ligur'd arid plain Mufiincts, 1
Quiltings, Dimities, and Striped Nankeens, t
Fancy Wail'eoatings, t
Ginghams of the firft Quality, fubjefl to Drawback, a
India Nankeens, f
Men's White and colsured Silk stockings.
„ Mav 9 Saweott
Yazoo Lands.
May be had at the Editor's Office 1 19, Chcfnut-fireet,
A few Copies of " a Report of the Attorney -
Genetal to Congress containing a Collection of .
Charters, Treaties a'>id> other Documents, i
, fit relative to and explanatory of the the Land ;
ick situate in the South Weltern parts of the United
States, and claimed by certain Companies under a -
law of the State of Georgia, passed January 7th. 1
2w *795- 1
Lottery and Broker s OlHce,
TV® 64 South Second street,
TCKETS in the Canal Lottery No. 11, are now rea
dy for sale, a Check Book kept for the examination
'42 of Tickets, and Prizes paid, without.ded^lion.
The Subscriber solicits the application 0! the Public or
any ot his friends who wiih to purch fc or felt Bank Stock, ,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange, or Notes, Houses, Lands, (
Lotts or Merchandize of any lcind, or to obtain Money (
L_ ondepo6t«f property.
2, WILLIAM BLACKBURN,
firft Late A 1 gent for the' Canal Lottery Company.
hef- Shares ail 1 Tickets in the late Newport Long
cor- Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottary examined; a
complete lift of all the prizes having been received at
they this office.
its June 6. w&s
■IFOR S /f L E,
A. very Valuable Eflate,
CALLED TW IT TENH AM, situate in the
townfuip of Upper Derby, and county of Delaware,
7 t-2 miles from Philadelphia, and half a mile from the
uew Weflcrn road : containing 130 acres of excellent land,
45 of which are good watered meadow, 90 of prime wood
land, awd the reft arable of the firft quality. There arc
on the premises a good two story brick house, with 4 roema
on a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a pump-well
of excellent \vat£* in fronta large frame barn, Uab.ks,
end other £OBYU?icnt nildingt; a-ii»oke-houf<? alKs {tone,
fpring-hoaAr; two good apple orchards, and one of peach
es, The fields are all in clover, except those immediately
upder tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advantage
of- water in each of them, whicL renders it peculiarly con
venient for grazing.
The Gtiuation is pleasant and healthy, and from the hi£h
cultivation of the good neighbourhood, and the
vHimty\to the city, it is very suitable for a gentleman's
country feat.
The foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Harmon,
deceased., and offered for-faie by
Mordecai tevis,
OA. 9; eo.] Surviving. Execute.
China Goods.
THE Ship Atlantic, Silas Su-aine, Commander,
from Canton, wjlLccjmmence the difchargc of' litr
cargo to-morrow morning at Walnut-street what!
Conjtjling of
Yellow and -\yhiie Nankeens of excellent quility
Pcrfiari Tafftfics, black and coloured
Lustrings, do. dp.
Sattins black of various qualities
Sewing silks in aiforted colours
Vermillion in boxes
Cafßa in chefls
Quicklllver in jars
ISOHjEA, )
SOUCHONG, |
F"<kT«.
. BEST HYSON,
IMPERIAL, J
: CHINA WARE, ornamental, with Table aml'Te*
Sets generally afTorted.
: WHITE SUGARS, ajfd a quantity of
First quality Bengal SALT PETKJJ.
" Fur Sate ly
Philip Nicklin & Co.
f April 8. t.th&s
PROPOSALS,
, By BIORT.N W MADAN,
I For publishing by Suhfcriptiort, that Celebrated Worl,
t Godwin's Political justice.
From the last London Edition.
C TF.*I.!S.
t I. It will be published in twa large volumes, duoderima.
is 11. Price to Subßribers,two dollars, handsomely bound,
d to be paid on delivery of the work,
111. As foonasa number of Subfctlbers appear, fuffi
d cient to defray the expend 1 , it (hall be put to press.
:r IV. The names of tha Subscribers (hall be prefixed.
Th follow-in; Character of this work
d is cxtraacd frtnn the Monthly R'cview, p. 311, 31a, for
it March, 1793.
LS « We have no small degree of pleasure in anno uncing
j- theprefent work to our readers ; as one v. h'ch from the
1- Irecdom of-itserrquiry, the grandeur of its views, and the
fortitude of its principl.s, is eminently deserving of atten
*** tion. By this eulogiuM, we would by 110 means be under
stood to fubfe'ribt to all the principles which these volumes
contain. Knowledge is not yet arrived at that degree of
certainty which is requifitJ, fdr any two men to think a
like on all fubje&s; neither has language attained that con
' fiftent accuracy, which can ehible them to convey their
ur thoughts, even <vhen they do think alike, in a manner per
fectly correil artd intelligible to both. These difficulties
~~ are only to he overcome by a patient, incefiant, and bene
volent iriveftigstisn.
n( j " Many of the opinion: which this work contains, are
t0 bold; some bf them are novel ; andfbmedoubtlefsare er
roneous :—but that which ought to endear it evert-to theffe
whose principles it may offend, is the ftrerigt/i of argu-'
he ment adduced in it to prove, that peace and order most efJ
fe6lually promote the happiness actor which political re*
formers'are panting -—-that as the progress of knowledge
is gradual, political reform ought net to be precipitate;—
and tfiat convulsive violence is dangerous not only to indi
viduals (for thai rcfult comparatively would be of small
account) but to the general caufe,of truth. It is the op»
pofite of this principle mat infpirer the enemies of politic*
ai enquiry with so much terror ; it is the rifppofition that
change mud inevitably be attended by the turbulence and
injustice of commotion; and that innovation cannot be'
made without the intervention of evils more deftru&ive
than those which are intended to be reformed. Under the
-—_ .a.:. r un-imhrnpic fentimcnt, of calm and
gradual reform, (which in its he has fully il
luflrated) Mr. Godwin proceeds without scruple firft to en
quire into present evil, through its eifential brancka*, and
next to demontlrate future good.
'• Dividing his work into eight books, aßd making the
IMPORTANCE OF POLITICAL INSTITUTIONS the fubjeA of
the firft, he begins by an attempt to prove th* omnipo
tence of government over the moral habits of mankind;
and that on these moral habits their wisdom, virtue and
felicity depend."
j £jP Subscriptions received by the publiihers at their
Printing Office, back of Ne. 77 Dack-ftreet, Philadelphia.
June 18 jiweoim
Jsjheton and James Humphreys,
•rt, CONVEYANCERS,
TTAVE removed their office to No. 61, Walnut-street,
ot nex t door but two to the corner of Deck-flreet,
rs, where all INSTRUMENTS IN WRITING are drawn at
n( j a moderate chargc, with care, accuracy and dispatch.—
: They likewise buy and fell Real Eftatrs upon coriimif
fions, and procure Money upon Loan on good security.—
' a The bufinefi of an ATTORNEY AT LAW and NOTA
th, Ry PUBLIC is also tranfaSed at the fald office as usual
by ASSHETON HUMPHREYS.
— N. B. Good Notes discounted.
-July 5. eo6vr
Ten Dollars Reward,
ion Ran away,
JURE 2jd, from Brian M'Laughlin, living at "Henry
Clymer's place at Schuylkill point, a Young Woman,
who passes by the name of Pollt Morrison, low set,
' darkifli complexion, small grey eyes, about seventeen or
ne y eighteen years of age, had on a dark-colored lliort gown,
and linfey petticoat. She stole and carried away a trunk
and a confidcrable sum of money, and s great many other
articles. Left behind her a cloak of coating lined with
green baize, which is supposed to be stolen. The owner,
by proving property may have it. Whoever lodges her in
iat I - n y g oa '> that fh? may be brought to prefecution, lhall
I receive Ten Dollars Reward.
s I June 48 saw 3* BRIAN M'LAUGHLIN.PRO P 0 S A L S. '
Ey 7- TirtKHR "d'A. P. ouif, ju'n.
c nr "Pii'uli'tiinff hy SrfV,fcrrpVr,ii 4
LETTERS TO TOUNG WOMEN,
Married and single,
By Mrs. GRIFFI I'H.
" Beauty io vai * her fparkiing eye* may roll :
" Charmsftrike the light— ut Merit wins th-; foil
CON TENTS —Of duties—Port'tude— Char
ity—Affe&ion due to an husband—Resignation, and trufl:
God— The importance of thoie accomphihment4 most
agreeable to the huiband ; and on ret rem nt, diflipation,
&c.—Economy—Domeflic ainufements, music, &c.—
Public diversions, cards, and dress—Complacency ; Pa
ticnce-—Secret*—-Servants, &c. The importance of ear
ly cultivating the minds of children, and of giving them
the earliefl ideas of truth and benevolence. Their early
inllrudlion in the beauties of natnre,and in humility,com
piflion, indullry, Sec. The propriety of.inftiUing early
ideas of religion in the minds of children. On their rea
ding, and on the use of money to them—The ufc of wri
ting early recommended for children ; thoughts on vari
ous duties they ftiould acquire, as contentment, Ac.—
Thoughts on their negative education, and their turn for
imitation—On the acquirements of girls in the knowledge
of music, needle-work, drawing, dancing, &c. Thoughts
on the education of the heart, in preference to the (hewy
To which will be annexed,
The Vision of Female Excellence•
CONDITIONS.
This work to be eomprifed in two handsome duo
decimo volumes of 150 pages each, neatly bound and
ltttcred.
The price to fubferibers will be One Dollar per toI.
to be paid oa delivery.
As soon as 500 fubferibers are obtained, the Work
will be put to press.
Subscribers' names to be affixed.
ON the utility of this work the publisher* deem it
unfieceflary to del'cant.—ln the refinement of the fe
male mind Mrs. Griffith's Letters hare been eminently j
fuccefsful; and the general eftimition in which they
have been held by the lovers of intellectual improve
ment (the best criterion of their merit) will, they hope,
'ensure to their propofalt a welcome reception froM
th* "fair daughters of America."
" Delightful talk ! t« rear the tender thought,
To teach the young idea ow td (hoot,
To pour the frefh iuftruflion o'er the mind,
To Wtathe th'enlivening spirit, and to fix
The generous purpose in the glowing breast."
Subferiptions received by the publilhers, at the office
sf the Philadelphia Minerva, No. *14 Market-ftrecet.
Jlriy 6 wf&m
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
By J. O R M R O D,
N«. 41, Chefnut-ftreet (price 25 Cents)
A Short and Candid
ENQUIRY
Into the Proofs of Christ's Divinity; in which
Dr. Prieftly's opinion concerning Christ
Is occasionally confidered—ln a Letter to a Friend.
Cv CHARLES H. WHAR I ON, D.D.
And Member of the Philofophicat Society of Philadelphia*
_ Jul)J. 5t
An adjourned meeting of the Pennsyl
vania Society for promoting the Abolition of Slavery, See.
will be held at the jifual place, on the 1 Ith inft. at half
past 7 o'clock in the evening.
7th pro. Bth. BENJ. KITE, 6ec'ry.
George Sibbald,
HAS removed hi* Compting-Houfe to Mifflt»'« wharf,
betwien Race and Vine-streets.
luly 6. <lw
Landing,
This Day, at Willings & Fratocis's wharf, from the Brandy
wine Miller,
A cargo of Rum & Sugar
from St. Croix.
For Sale by
John Nixon & Co.
June 23 S xo
Phila. and Lancaster Turnpike Road.
THE Stockholders who have not paid the penalties
incrred on their refperftive /hares, are requested to
pay the fd'ueto the Treafurcr of the Company «n or be
fore the 10th iaft.otberwife interest will be charged there
on until paid. By order of the Board,
W*. OOVETT, See'ry.
July 7. '§4
By an Artlft resident at Mr. Oellers's Hotel,
MINIATURE LIKENESSES
ARE taken and executed ia that elegant and delicate
stile, which is so neceflary to render a Miniature Pic
ture an intereftiug jewel.
He will warrant a (trong and indisputable refem
btanc&4 and he takes the liberty to lay bofore the public
•f this place his m»ft earned intention tQ deserve their pa
tronage by his •-a^ avon to pl c *ic.
N. B. Specimens are to befeen.
—tgr~ S
AN EXTENSIVE ASSORTMENT OF
Books and Stationary,
Wholesale and Retail, now opened and for Sale by
WILLIAM TOUNG.
Boikfeller, No. $2, Corner ef Second and Cbefnut-flreets.
A MONO which are FngLism, Latin, and Gum:
Classics and Dictionaries, Diviwitv, Law, His- <
tort, Travels, Voyages, Miscellanies,and themeft
oftecmed Novels.
WRITING AND POINTING PAPERS,
From tlie best manufacturers in Europe, and from his ma
nnfacSlor) on Brandywi«ie, viz.
Imperial,plain and viOve flatSmail folio post, plain
Superrrj>yal do. do. Ditto gilt
Royal do. do. Blofiom paper assorted
Medium do- do. Transparent folio post
Demy do. do. Superfineapdcommon foolfc.
Glazed and hot-prefod folio Marbled papers.
ud 4to extra largr post coarse i-apers.
Thick post in, folio ditoCjlo. London brown, assorted
Ditto 111 <JW. ditto do. Hattecs' paper
POHO wove post, lined Startlers,' paper
Qinrto ditto do. Comm.n brown
Dftt. .-ilc dp. Patent (heathing
Common Cze folio post Bonnet boards
Ditto quarto, plain Binders' Boards.
folio an< quarto post, gilt,
AiUi a 'variety of other Stationary Articles, yix.
Wedgwood and philofopnical irmSiands, well afTort
ted ; pewter iatenefts of various sizes ; round pewter ink
ftan'ds ; paper, brass, and polished leather iijk (lands tor the
pocket Slii.iog land and fa rid b-ines, pnunce and pounce
boxes, ink and ink powder. Counting house and pocket pen
knives of the best quality, ass skin tablet and memorandum
books. Rrd and colored wafers, common fine, office ditto.
Q'-i!!'- f' om b-If » dollar, to three dollars p«r hundred.
Black lead pencils, mathematical iniiruments, &c &c.
All foris and fries of K n*isK Books, ready made or made
to order, liank ebecki, bjjrik bills of exchange and notes of
hand, in copperplate, bi Is of iiding, nunifefts
feaioen's articles and journals, & See.
June 18 B,W 3 W
■ ■ ■_ -
PbiladeLpfjia,
SATURDAY EVENftCG, Jolv 9,
rj* "The priee of tl\is Gizerte is eisj..
Vrar. Suhfcrihers whose papers are sent per p*l
tr e charged one dollar yearly in addition for enclo
tirijr an ! directing. Six month's fubfeription to be
paid in advance. '
Adveitifepients will he promptly and cor.fpicu
-011 fly puhlifhed, at 50 Cents a square for the firft
infers ion, and 25 Cents for every continuation.
A Subscription is ripened at Baltimore, for the
relief of our fuffering friends ofCharlelion.
The American Philosophical Society, deeply af
fected by the death of their late worthy Pfefidtfnt,
Dr. David Rittenhoufe, did, at a fpccial meetinjj
held on Friday the I(t instant, resolve, that 911 EU
LOGIUM, commemorative of his
talent* and services, he publicly pronounced before
the society by a member of the fame ; in pursuance
of which, Dr. Benjamin Rush was appointed for
the ferviceat a meeting of th« Society held at th«ir
Hall on Tuesday last.
The brig Susannah, Capt. Baird, arrived at
N«w-Ca(lle on Thursday last in 7 weeks aid 4 days
from Belfait: fl»e left that poit with 200 paffen
gen; 46 were dragged on board 2 Britifti frigate*
a few days ago in the longitude of 71.
Di ED.] —Wedneday,in the Pennfylrania-Hofpt
tal, Richard Chvbs, years—of which
he lived near so yeart'in the bouse. His death was
oecafisned suddenly by eating a large quantity of
cherries.
The following ii the address delivered at the inter
ment of Dr. Rittenhoufe, Ute Prelident of the
Philofophieal Society in this city, by the Rev.
Dr. Gre«n<
" THIS is emphatically the tomb of genius and_
<rf science. Their child, their martyr is here
posited, and their friends will make his eulogy in
tears ; I stand not here to pronounce it. The
thought that engrofles my mind is this—how mueh
mora clear and inprefiive must be the views which
the late spiritual inhabitant of that lifelcfs corpse
now polTefTes of God, of his infinite exigence, of his
adorable attributes—of that eternal blaze of glory
which emanates from him, than when (he was
blinded by her veil of flefh. Accustomed as she
was to penetrate far into the univerfe—far as cor
poreal er mental vision here can reach, ftHl, what
new and extenfivefcenes of wonder have opened on
her eyes enlightened and invigorated by death !—
The discoveries of Rittenhoufe since he died have
already been more and greater than while he lived.
Yes, and could ne address us from the spiritual
world, his language would be,
" All, all on earth is Jhadoiv, all beyotid
I\JubJiance —th. teverfeis folly's creed."
He would, doobtlefs, admonish us to live for eter
nity, and not for time. He would warn U3 to re
gard the whole period of this shadowy and palling
ttatc a* • space of inllru&ion, of discipline, of trial 5
of preparation for a state that is to follow : And he
would charge us to afe all our talents and endow,
menu under the sensible influence of this impreifion,
and to difchargc the whole business of life with this
view. This is a view truly great and elevated ;
truly and only worthy of au intelle&ual, moral, and
immortal being. This is the view that unriddles
human life; that gives meaning to all its teeming
mysteries; that explains the intention of all its
toils, its afflictions, and its trials; that presents an
object suited to th jfe ceaseless grafpings of the foul
•f which we are all conftious, but which no mortal
ever did or ever can fill with any possession or at
tainment en this fide the grave. Say that a future
world is to rcftify the disorders, to supply the defi
ciencies, to compensate the labours and to reward
the fufferings of the present ; fay, that the fool of
virtue shall there drink to the full, (hall expand her
faculties and putfue her pleasures without hindrance,
and (hall find that " these light »ffli£lions whieh
" are but for a moment, work out for her, a faf
" nyore exceeding and eternal weight of glory,"
and you givedelign and dignity to the present state
of man. He is leen to live for an end worthy his
powers, and worthy of all his efforts and of all his
diflrefles. Withdraw this view, and you fee in hipi
••nhing tnsi tW «r.; oma 0 f creation.
be God, this view cannot De withdrawn from the
believing mind. It i 6 opened and rendered perma
nent by the sure word of revelation. This word af
ftires us of a future sxiftence. It aflures the pardon
of fin and eternal life, to him who relies, by faith,
on the infinite merits of the Redeemer. It teaches
that through tepentance and the renovation of our
nature by the spirit of grace, the human mind may
be fa purged from its moral defilement, as to be ad
mitted to the prcfence, and capacitated for the en
joyment, of mncreatcd purity. That when thus at
tempered it shall a&ually dwell with God forever,
and eternally grow larger in its conceptions of him,
and of his various and ineffable excellence diffufed
through the immensity and diversity of his works.
The fitne word inHrudtsus that all the dispensations
of I rovidence towards us here, are means wifely
calculated to produce in us the celestial temper, and
to fit us for the tranfeendant felicity, we contem
plate. Filled with these reflections, let us go from
this tomb and resolve to regard the high designa
tions of nature. Rightly regarding this, wa. shall
fill up life with ufefulnefs and duty, we shall bear its
burdens with patience, and we shall look forward to
its close with pleafuie. We fliall consider death but
a* the lirtb of a new and nobler exiftenee, as a dark
but Ihort pafiiga to the region, of eternal day ; and
in the very agony of our change we may exclaim in
triumph, " O death, wh&c is ihy Uing ! O grave,
11 where is thy victory { Thanks be to God who
" giveth us the vi&ory, thtoueh our Lord Jesus
Christ."
A celebrated poemhas lately made its appevance
at Edinburgh in consequence of thccondu4i of the
hon. Henry Erfkine, brother to the Earl of Bn
chan. Mr. Erfkine, who for many years had been
Dean of tKe faeuhjr of advocates (a place represent
jsfiC ™c;,u, or
ffi* ') i,.i. .-rv <• • <•* >~ *-.am -e '
Tr- —->■ > ■ s ,
I e' : ' ; t
jr. < •< i.: ;o thv . a g<Mi—
meetitigvo' the was deprived or his uniati
oh as Dean. This Pamphlet.which i< entitled the
" Telesjraph, a confolatßr.y ;EpHtle to the honor
able Henry Ei Ikine has a wry high eha
rafter for poetical excellence. - .
The following exticifk piefents p. v;'ry liv,elv nnci
impressive picture of the dangerous effects, which
ate generally found to result from rash attempts at
poliiica! reform. Whoever re'fie&s on the conse
quences of" such attempts in France, at the begin
n/ng of the revolution, will at once feel the force
ofthii allegory, which for curreStnefs, propriety
apd elegancc has seldom beeu furpafTed.
Quebec Paper.
Where dark forclls fwecp,
Round the bleak margin of the founding deep,
Oft matted brakes, and brakes entangling round,
1b wild luxuriance. c<>vcr all the ground;
The twisted myrtles bar the hunter't way,
And from his spear prpteiS the trembling prey ;
To cleir the forell's dark impervious maze,
The half starved Indian lights a hasty blaze,
Then lifts a torch, and rufhiug o'er the flrand,
High o'er his head he waves the flaming brand;
From bufli t« boih, with rapid step he flies,
Till the whole sorest blazes to the flcics.
Often, 'tis true, this of madnefj done,
He mourns the mifchief which his hand begun ;
Wheu the red torrent rushing o'er the plain,
Mo art can flop, no human power reft rain ;
Till from a rock, he fees with wild amjzc.
His wife and children perilh in the blaze.
Stop, Henry, flop ! aad cautiously enquire,
If you can quench, as you enflame the fire;
Think oa the in my simple tale,
Vfha £rc3 a Province for a faulty ra»al.
From the "izette.
Mr. Carltp
The coy rfc off; b ths Com
monwealth of Ms and the just
and reasonable d effects there
of. mull uf&rtTr ./each observer. j
Yout Correfpo .it — i .ie preceding re
marks by noticin he attention of the legislature,
in the course of thj lad. feveo years, to the encou
ragement of literature, provision for the virtuons
and liberal education of the riling generation, pub
lic convenience and utility and many other valuable
ebjedts.
Besides the incorporations in the said period of
seven years of §2 towns, incorporations have taken
place for various other ufeful purpafes, viz.— >
For Institutions of Education j 7
For support, &e. of religious focietics of
different denominations 38
For the building of Bridges 14.
For the conftru&ion of Canals and Locks 11
For the'intereft of Navigation 4
For the encouragement pi Aits, including
Agticulture 15
For banks 3
Miscellaneous. 4
June 1796.
AN ORATION,
Delivered at Princeton College, on the AnHfatrfatj
of Independence July 4, 1)96.
By ROBERT FORSYTH.
[concludes.]
With honed pride I fee my country bom to il
luminate the uniVtrfe. Her birth-day is the birth
day of freedom, and of :rue political science over
the whole earth. In seventy fix the dawn, in eigh
ty three the morning star, is eighty seven the fun
arofc upon the world. The pliilofophers of Eu
rope kindling their tapers at his fires have begun to
ftied on thedarknefs of despotism a light dreadful
to tyrants. The tyrants aghast are all trembling
their thrones are tottering—two have already sal
len with a tremendous convulsion. And the reft,
rocking to their foundations, threaten fhoitly to bu
ry their proud mallets beneath their ruins. With
thee O my beloved country ! has commenced
The ®ra ot iYv« emancipation aniielfctty of nations.
Americans! what an illustrious motive is this, to
cherifli in your bofgms the sacred flame of patriot
ism ? The world illuminated and animated by your
example, after the tyranny of so many ages, is, 'at
last, going to become happy—Study, generous A
taericans f to mark out before them the path of
virtue, as Well as of freedom. By virtue you have
eftablilhed your rights as a nation—And virtue
will be the solid an 1 eternal basis of the republic.—
If virtue and liberty combined fliauld from hence
forth pervade and regenerate the earth, what a tri
umphant profpetfc would their piogrefs yield to ev
ery lover of his country, and of mankind ? I cannot
anticipate it but with a sweet enthusiasm. The
grandeur of the feene expands the miad beyond
Iter common dimenfioni—and the contemplation of
fueh extcofive happiness to man intoxicates the
heart with a charming delirium. The fourth of Ju
ly shall be the most illustrious feftival in the universe
—It (hall be cenfecrated as the birth day of na
tions, as the commencement of a new otder' of
things in the world,
My countrymen 1 having begun a career so
splendid, let not the sacred cause of liberty be tar
niflied in our hands. The minions of tyrants have
boldly pronounced on the impotence of the people
to govern themselves ; and triumphed in theexpec
ted convulsion* that time will produce. Beware of
the rocks of jealousy and of fa<3ion. These are
the chief dingers to be dreaded by you. Hardly
any others can obftrud, even for a mdment, y«ur
rapid progression to felicity and glory. The mu
tual jealousy of dates, by dividing, will enfeeble the
operations of the union. Fa&ion is only the con
tinual effort of private passions to throw back so
ciety into that chaos from which man, by the sub
ordinations of government, has endeavored to re
bellion hit nature. Had I the charaftcr and infiu
ncf of a I the voiceoCar, at:g.'
• iiild never eeafe to. warn, I would ceijurc yJ,
cans, to be on, your guard agaiaft these evil ' >.
voulJ make my admonitions re.echo fiom your
jT. SdilU.nt shores, and mountain*. The jetlouiv
o t Lacedetr.on, of Athens, andofThebee dedioyej
the Amphyftioiticleague. The difTemions of the.
Grecian dates, alternately hurried, them from an
archy to tyranny, and from tyranny replunged
them into anarchy again ; till they #!] equally funk
and were broken under the iron sceptre of Macedon
— Rome was torn to pieces by successive fa£Hons
till, at la ft* wearied and didradted by her calamities'
(he found a dreadful rcfource in the abfoluts power
of a mailer. Learn frem the history of others
misfortunes, the road to facure your own {jlory !
why should the husbandman envy the merchant !
why should the south be jealous of the north ? the
success of each member of the union is the profper
ityofall. But (hun, deted, overwhelm with the
public execration the men who would kindle a
mong you the flames of faction. Faction ! curst
offspring of hell begot on mercenary intercA } If
fartion come to dissolve, or dillurb our harmonious
fyftcm all the fpjendid pidlutcs that our patriotism
and philanthropy hare framed, shall be defaced and
blotted out forever. Avaunt fell monder ! thou
haft dared to Ihewthy horrid visage for a moment
crawling from the infernal pit, and to spit thy ve
nom and ftilphilr on the the immortal
glory of Wafliiujftonl his jjower-'ul genius (hall crush
thy head, and plunge thee down again into the_j. <
byfsfrom whence thou halt, sprung ! O Walhing
to.i ! whose name, oh every return of this anniver
sary, I shall pronounce with enthuliafm along with
the facrid name of country —A* thoti had fooght
her battles, life t« cement her union ! Let not
heaven call thee away too soon from the vows of
mortals ! nor ever quit the helm of government
while one head remains on the Hydra of diforgan
izatioii ! My beloved' country ! who has begun
such an auspicious course, soon mayll thou arrive
at perfection in every virtue and in every art ! On
this holy nnniveifary the fervent prayers of all thy
children ascend to heaven fbnliy prosperity— And
here in thi* hollowed edifice, we the youngest gf
thy son* bow before the throne of the eternal and
pour forth our mingled vowsfor thee,ourtalents,our
studies, our active powers we confeerate to thee,and
here, in the name of all the reft I swear to thee eter
nal fidelity, and duty.
£The above oration, we are informed, wa» wlis
ten by the Prelident of the College. J
BRITISH PARLIAMENT. I
HOUSE OF COMMONS—Friday, May 6.
Impeachment of the Minister.
Mr. Grey said, those who consider the power of
the Minilter io_that House, the little disposition
that had beenmanifefted to inquire into hiscondufl ;
but, on the contrary, the readinef* difplaycd on
all occafioo* to give most unbounded con
fidence in every tranfadtfon, will naturally conclude
it is a vain and extravagant attempt to bring for
ward charge*, calculated to lay the foundation of
an impeachment. He was aware of these difficul
ties, and he almost despaired of success ; but he did
not feel that he could discharge his duty to hi* con-
Itituents and to his Country, without listing to
that house, and fuppoiting his statements by in
controvertible evidence, that the King's Minif»crs
had contravened fpecific important a«fts of Parlia
ment, and violated some of the mod eflential of our
laws, made to guai'd the expenditure of the public
money, in concealing fripm the knowledge of
the House of Commons the true disposition they
had made of it, and prtffeßting falfe accounts, in
order to deceive the guardians of the public purse.
It was not neceflary to date the duty of a member
of Parliament to superintend the expenditure of the
public money, to giant with caution and inquire
withjealoufy Their power over the purse of the
people was the belt ffrcurity for the liberties of the
country, the highed authority delegated by their
condituents. These are fa£ts which will not be dis
puted. In all, in even the worll of times, the/
have been admitted. And as it has always been the
duty of this House to wateh with suspicion the na«
tional expenditure. This duty becomes more
urgent a* our expence* increase, as our debts accu
mulate. But he would not enter into a detail of
themelancholy magnitude of o«r r*t>»nc»c; ?his was
not the objeS of his inquiry, and he should care
fully avoid it. H« wiihed to call the attention of
the house to-the way in which the public money had
been disposed of, and to bring them to examine how
tar the mod wholcfome legislative provilions had
been complied with. He had heard gentlemen in
that House, when the game laws were difcufied, de
preciate any innovation on them, as they had been
handed down by our anceltors, who had cemeirted
them with theirblood; if any alteration, however"
salutary, was proposed in some of our ol 1 opprefilvc
laws, we weie told our forefathers had fought for
them, and we should be cautious of touching what
had been fai«£lioned by the wisdom of age*. This
was a common and favorite language in that house j
and thi* night, so far as regarded his motion, it was
a language in which he would heartily concur. He
did not call upon the house to make any change in
the edablifhed laws or cudoms of the laud ; he cal
led upon it to maintain and support one of its oldest
and mod invaluable ptivileges, a privilege which,
whether we appreciate it by its antiquity or by the
zeal with which our ancedors on all occasions have
defended it, or by its iftual importan: e to the iiappi
nefs and welfare of the people, is one of the mod va
luable belonging to a House of Commons. For
no privilege have our fortfather* bled more freely,
than for the right of holding the purfedrings of the
nation ; and in do inliaoce have they manifefted
their wtfdom more confpicupufly, than in the un
shaken zeal with which they have maintained it. It
wai in fnpport of the good old principles of our an
cedors, that he now called upon the house, and he
cxpedted those gentlemen who had lately
lo much zeal for whatever had been far.dtioned by
time, would vote with him. He truitcd the House
would not fuffer the present fubjedl to pass on the '
ademption ol the Minider'g innocence, w::ich M>
nilUr* no doubt would afliime, and again c'si! (■*■inS 'igce with the feoUnei of Cotifcioui iris
. :l;icc. Hit rj'ted cbe house would eater into for: . j
'***"* enquiry on he wasabout to brinj ofecn.
ravening the law—charges which he would fl>-
nrr by fu.h evidence, that he would scarcely thin *
. fiat thty woald fuller such proceedings to pass uri
noticed. He had felefted them from many other
;r:i«lcs ol a nature equally criminal, on account of
heir p'.ainnefs and simplicity, and hecoulJ not con
ceive any argument that could refill them.
The mifeonduft of ministers, in this calamitous
-var, formed an ample ground of charge and of rep
robation ; the enormous ex »,vagaHce, and culpa
<le mifroanagement of the public money, were also
matters of moll fcrious accusation ; but he (hould
••>afs over all these, much ai they merited attention,
*nd confine himfelf to the (ingle charge of hafc'ing
iolated those laws under which the public money 1
% granted,and, having presented to that house falfit i
Accounts, with the view of making it appear that i
they had complied with the provisions of the acts i
«>f parliament, and what {till aggravated the fubjeft
of complaint was the violated laws had been bro't j
into that house by the miniiter himfelf. He firft I
< ailed the attention of the house to the appropria- I
j ion aft, by wltich die king's ministers are enjoined I
iot to use the public money for any other purposes 1
han those pointed out in the aft itfelf. They can- i
iot without a breach of law take upon themselves 1
todifpenfe with its provisions, and employ the mo- <
jcy for other pnrpofes ; and fie would confine bim- ;
fclf (imply to (hewing, that after that aft <
lad appropriated certain sums for cloathing the ar- I
my, paying the ftaff officers and lieut. governors a- ]
broad —the money had not been so applied, nor i
nad account been given how it had been disposed of I
—The disposition of the money for the army is t
•more ftrift than for any other fei vice. It is not '
disposed, in a general way, for the army, but every i
service is diftinftly and fpecifically provided for.— t
In the yeata 1-793 and 1794, certain sums were ap 1
propriated, which, by an account laid on the table, 2
dated April 21, appear tohave'been paid out of rfle t
fcrviee of the pref'nt year. Of these, there was i
644,0001. issued for cloafhing, 146,000!. to th« t
ftaff officers, acd 34,413!. to lieut. governors a- c
broad, all of wlych had been incurred and provided p
for 1793 apd 1794, and were now taken out of a
the grants for 1796, in direst violation of the law, I
and even without giving any account of what has c
been done with the money originally afligned for c
those purposes. His proposition was plain and t
dimple ; there 19 the aft of parliament, and there is a
the account of the 21 ft ofApril, (hewing it has been r
▼iolated. Ministers could not set up any good de- si
fence on the ground of convenience, or of public tl
•ecefiity. In the fituatton they flood, it was their tl
duty to have come to that house to have dated the c
necessity that compeilcd them to a breach of the v
Jaw, and to have a(ked for a bill of indemnity ; 1
there is no dodbt it would have been granted, and la
by this mode of proceeding, the law would have J
been vindicated, and the conftitutioa preferred in. tl
violate. But, instead of doing this, they have en- fl
deavoted to cover one, crime by committing anoth- A
er, to conceal the illicit ufc they had made of the it
money difpafed in the appropriation aft, by produ- b
cing falfe accounts tqih-.it Ijoufe. In their defence a|
will, perhaps, fay, the deviation vvgf iinavoida- I ei
blc, and was judged by former practice, but it was w
• deviation and a practice which had been always u;
considered to be unconftitutioual and dangerous, m
and in all good times,it had been severely censured. pi
In 17H, during a war, distinguished both Wy ex, la
pence and glory, the practice was voted a mifappli- bi
cation of the public money. It is said extraordina- at
ries are unavoidable, and this is true, to a certain d<
extent ; but it is the duty of ministers to submit fe
'air accounts to the house, to (hew in the most (at- li<
sfaftory manner how those eV-aordinaries have
teen incurred, to give an honest statement of the ft;
aft and futuie expetifesof the nation ; andhesftc- oi
d ministers, whether, at a time when they readily» b:
:ceived from parliament every thing they deman- 4.
ied, and wet? even put in pofTeffion of 1,500,000!. at
ir unfoicfeen services, whether they could not have ce
ade eftima:es nearer the truth than those they had 8;
1 tely presented to the house ? Mr. Grey here de- lii
fcrfbed the rapid increafeof the ixtraordinaties, at
from the time of queen Anne'« wars,when 200,000! T
was deemed an enormous sum ; and he particular, w
1;. preffcd upon the attention of the house the ex tr
client ObfeTvations contained in Mr, Haftell's tc
trig in iiU_<:lofct ; among which, was one, that the d
Iviufe of commons could not be forgiven for the ne- fr
giigencc they (hewed in inquiring into the extraor- p'
dinariesduring the American war. A committee p
"the House of Commous, of which Mr. Pi a was p
a member, had also, in 178J, dated, that the prat- oi
lice ol txtiaordiaaries, had been carried to an alar- it
ming heightii, and Mr. Pitt himfelf had then con- tl
♦lemnad and reprobated the practice in the (Irongeft na
language. But let us compare his former declara- Is
: ions with his profcnt conduct, and we dull find he w
has far, very far, furpafled in extravagance all that p<
ever was done before his time; that he had furpaf- fh
fed r veil (!:c very improvidence of which he had so cr
much complained. w
A j eft ifi cat ion founded on the practice of former p:
t'mts, could not therefore be admitted from him, fe
hp had so warmly condemned that praflire, from di
!im who had (lood forth the advocate of public or
onomj ar.d of reforms, conduct which he re
• >ped had npt been adopted merely with the view ac
f deceiving the people ; and Mr. Grey hoped lie he
ou'd not now contend that no-blame was due di
r taking the money voted for the army cloathing as
~C. in 1783-4, applying it to other purposes, an
a 'id delaying the payment of it beyond the (übfe- a *
qarnt year. The sums which fh<«uld have been fu!
paid in 1793 4 hnve now been taken out of the lui
rams for 1796 of which no less than eight millions —
3ve fiecn expended in the firll quarter, and arrears
(>1" army cloathing Hill remain. Mr. Grey now
L rrocevded to read the refolutiont to the house. M
' ! provided for thr objects explained in his 15
2 They firlt asserted, that,at all times, and H
"iler all circtimdances, it was the duty of the his
i>jfe of eOwmoiis to watch over the expenditure of wa
| " public money ; the fccond, that by aft of par- rc
■'nt-nt it was. provided, that money (hould not be ga'
''pKd to any other purpufs# than those exprefTed hal
'''■' ' ■' .
niw 't »?!»<•»<« hy ; Sti before the 'bout
sn. :.(f 2 lor April, ha part of the money gramr
b r the fervir* ,f year 1796, l;ad !
si of aticharging arrears
in- for army clothing, llaff officers, See. incurred iii
ler '793 -4, for which money in these years had been
of voted, but had never yet been accounted for. Ht
>n- now called the attention of tbe house to a refolu.
tion passed in 1784, when it was probable ther<
ius would be a diflblution of parliament before the ap
•p- propriation aft could be pafled,which declared thai
>a- iny minilUr (hould be guilty of a high crime and
so mifdemeanrir, who (hould use any unappropriated
Id sums without the consent of parliament, and con.
n, tended, that the conduct of ministers fell within the
1 g meaning of that resolution, and that they could not
;y lawfully emplay money granted for the current year
fe in retrofpeftive services. He next proceeded to
at notice the economical reform bill parted 1782, and
Is that which relates to the paymaster of the forces,
ft That bill had two dillinft objtfts: the firft, to
't guard against the accumulation of money in the
■ft hands of the paymalter ; the second, to insure rcg
»- ular annual payments to the army.—This aft has
;d been violated. By an account presented to tha<
es house on the 22d of April of the expenditure of
1- money in 1796, it appears, that there hav# been if.
e» sued to the paymaster of the forces 400,000!. in ex
-- chequer bills, that there remains in his hands a bal
n- ance of 83,2001. This was ft violation of the aft
ft of parliament, which provided, that no balance
r- (hould ever remain in his hands 5 for wltich pur
s' pose it had been enacted, that no money (hould he
tr paid lyr the exchequer to himfelf, but that it (hould
if be paid into his account at the bank, and that he
is fbould draw for it from time to time as occasion
>t might icquire. When firft he heard of a balance,
•y in he hatudaof the paymaster, he could not altogeth
- cr believe it ; he supposed it must be in the bank.
) But having often had too much reason to fufpeft
r, administration, he CP' fafrtfd with a pr- 'lenan 011
le the fubjeft, who was capablc oi giving '.um the V'ft
is iiitclligence : that get
m the balance must be
I- quiry he found it wa e
a pavmader to the full s
)f a fubjeft on which hn 1- ar >c ;
r, he eotild fay no more li
is declared that all moi < t-e ac
ir count of the » ban.;,
d that he (hould draw far it ' vices
is as they occured, and r
n remain in his hands : r-re .it p -
:• fentcd to this house 1 g
c that 83,20 c!. was in i ; This violation of
r the law vtfas so limple, so visible, that nothing he
c could fay c»uld place it in a stronger point of
e view ; the two facts themselves weie fufneient.
; Ihe second object of that aft had been equally vio
l lated. It had been provided, that on the 24th of
e June, and the 24th of December, in every year,
- the neeeffary sums for the cloathing o! the at my
- diall be ifTued —He was pofuive, and he had nqw
- fufficient proof, that none had been ifTued from
e midsummer 1793, till December 1795; and now,
. by accounts on the table, dated 1 lit of April, it
: appeared, that these due for 1793-4, had been tak
-en out of the grants for the let vie*of 17516. It
5 wasimpoflible to divine what defence could be fit
1 up for this violation of the paymaster's aft. The
, miniiler cannot here (hew that he is juftified by
. precedent, for the aft was parted since he himfelf
, lafl canje into administration. It was an aft
- brought into parliament and parted under his own
• auspices ; and he arcufed iiim of fettingthat aft Rt
1 defiance, and violating regulations which lie him
felf had acknowledged to he neccffary foi the pub
lic benefit.
• Mr. Grey then moved refohuions, in fflbflance,
; dating, that all money for the use of the paymafUr
■ or the forccs, (hould be paid into his account at the
• bank of England; that in contempt of the law,
' 443> 000 '- I'" heen ifTued by government, immedi
, atfcly into the hands of the paymaster of the for
• ces, and that a balance remains in his hands of
I 83,2001. in dir«*ft contravention of an aft of par
- liamcnt. The lad point to which he would call the
, attention of the boiifc, was the disposition paper.—
1 rhi3 paper, he presumed, was intended to be, that
. which it profefies to be, a real account ; and lie
trusted the house would never admit that it ought
! to be any other. This too had been violated The
• «'nift«» will f-.Tfts-p, th. of hi«-prer
t deceucrs for this; but this is th« lea'ff a^milTlßle
- fiom him of all men, who came into power on ex
- puss condition of reforming the abnles of all his !
e predeceflors. Ihe disposition paper, he would
1 prove to be a falfe sccount, and that the provisions i
- of the law had not been complied with. Perhaps '
- it will be said this paper relates merely to ifluesfrom i
- the exchequer, and if the pay ma r tei' can get the ■
I moTu y out of the exchequer, it is of little impor
- lance whether it is applied to the exact service for
; which it was received. If the violation of the dif
t position paper arose from neeeflity, the mtnider
- i.iould have applied for a bill of indemnitv. His
> crime was aggravated by hi® pretending to comply
with the aft, when in fact it had been totally de
parted from. Mr. Grey then moved a resolution
, setting forth, that certain foms, mentioned in the
1 difpafition papers for 1793 4-5, remained unpaid
■ on the Ift of January 1796 ; and his concluding
■ resolution was, that ministers had presented falfe
accounts, calculated to deecive and mislead the
house. Mr. Grey having enumerated his three
'liflinft charges—-id, rtfpefting the appropriation
aft ; 2d, refpefting the paymeder of the forces ;
and 3d, reTpefting the disposition paper, concluded
a very clear and able speech, confined entirely to the
fubjeft to which it related, by moving his firft reso
lution. (To be Continued.)
BOSTON, June 29.
Arrived (hip I.ouifa, 21 days from Savannah la- ;
i »ar. Jamaica. Left no Americans there. June
tj, saw *he b,ig Hope of Philadelphia, afhoieon ,
Hsis Reef, Florida : brought away the capt. and
his trunks. Supposes the cargo will be laved. She
was thiee days from Havannah, June 24, lat. 37, i
Jo long 72, 17, was boarded from a French fri
gate of 40 guhs—detained about two hours and an c
half, and then difmifled.
> _ Shr. Jane, Burroughs, Nova-Scotia, 8
} ' •)*.
' ——.Sloop Nancy, Jenkins Martinique, 1/
i?.y*. Left there, Schr. Nymph, Mahevv, and
ears Schooner William, of Newbury-port. Spoke no
d iri veffcls.'
teen _____ Schr. Alert, Hilman present matter, St.
He Thomas's, 18 days j where her former eapt. ( But
olu- ler) died.
ierc June 30.
ap- Arrived Minerva, Parge, 44 days from !
hat London, June 26, lat. [42, 6, long. 63, 30, spoke
and ihip Buperb, Trail, 7 days from hence for Lop
trd doh • had loft two of his men by impressment.
un. The Minerva, Hinkley, failed for St. Übes, a few
the dayß before.
not J u ly 1. 1
ear Arrived IchV. Hannah, 16 days from Turks-Is- ]
Ito land, spoke brig Mary, from Baltimore, capt. B. ]
iRd Rogers, bound to Jaremie j veflel very leaky.
July 3. I
to Arrived, brig Hope, capt. Dexter, 54 days I
ihc from London.
eg- Same day—arrived fcho. Martin, capt. Collins, <
has 30 days from Lisbon. Spoke no vefTels. t
ha< Same day—Ship Eliza, Capt. Gibaut from <
of Canton, 170 days; Jutie « lat. 13, 57, long. 1
if- $.8, spoke brig Ann, Patterfon, for Savannah ;
ex- June 7, spoke Ship Hamilton, eapt. Rodman ; 1
>al- Jane 14, lat. 52, long. 40, spoke capt. Edes ill a
aft fcaor. June 15, spoke (hip Marv, privateer, capt. t
ice Loivry, who boarded capt. G. and overhauled his 1
ur- papers, and capt. G. supposes she was run away 1
he with, by the sppearance of the veflel, officers and 1
jld crew j June 26, spoke fchr. Virginia, bound to t
he Port-au Prince, in lat. 34, 43; June 29. was a
on boarded by the Thetis, eapt. Cochran, be examined t
ce, his papers and treated'him very politely. t
:h- Same day—arrived fchr. Telegraph, capt. Ho- t
ik. vey, 28 days from Cayenne. Left there, fchr. \
;ft Peggy,capt. Sumaer of this port. f
on The Slip William, Hickery, 39 day# from New- i
•ft butypori for Manilla, was spoke May 21, lat. 26,
t 2,. N. Iwg, 24, 40, W.
From Lloyd's Lift.
e Gravefand, May I—ll. Sailed, Hope, Seward,
5 Boflon ; Roufelace, Philadelphia ; Ceres, Young,
; do, Sally, Weeks, do. c
h Falmouth, May 4 —9. Arrived, Wilmington, <
Shiel, Philadelphia ; Eagle, Kerney, do. George *"
Rust, Salem ; Mary, Trade, do. c
s Liverpool, Arrived, Three Sifters, Delano, ""
;'r Wifcsffet;- Friendship, Trott, Boflop ; Alknomac, Q
- Tucker, Maffechufetts. ""
g Cowes. Arrived, Henry, Gieen, Salem ; Rang
>»f e ', Eafterbrook, Boston ; Columbine Kirby, New
le York; Juno, More, Charleftoq. .
of Amsterdam, Arrived, Peggy, Laurence, New
t. York. „
0- Gibraltar, Mary Ann, Neill, N. York.
of Elfmore, Betsey, Smith, Newport ; Liberty,
r, Ely, Bnfton ; Induflry, Fisher, do.
ly Weymouth, Betsey Clarke, Boston.
w Hambro', Lr.nfon, Boflon ; Bar, Salem.
m Portsmouth, Sailed, Freedom, >, Salem. c
i', Lisbon, Arrived, Snffex, Pearcf, Boston.
it Plymouth, Mary, Jones, Portland. r
t- ''
t BY THIS DAY's MAILS. J
J NEW-YORK, July 8. .
ft r PATRIOTISM, I
■n An individual in Hungary on the hft requffi
it tions for affiltance in the present war, presented
1- the emperer of Germany with 22 HufTars, well
3. mounted and equipped, too recruits on foot, and -
Bcoo bushels ot oats! His name is Christian Nako. J
e, A company in the Britifli guards was lately fold r
r for the enormous Aim of 8000 guineas.
ic 1 lie expulsion of Col. Cawthorne from the Brit- *
f, ifli House of Commons is in confeqnence of some
i. unfavorable ffintence from a late court martial ; and
r. which, thougjh not materially injurious to his cha- ~
>f rafter, was fufficient, agreeble to the rule of the
r. honfe, to expel him from that body. T
ie •'he Spani/h court have agreed to the free pafisge
_ of French merchandize to Cadiz. °®
it .
ie MONTfiGO-BAY. June 4.
!t We hear general Walpole has declined the Sword
c offered to h>ip hy thejjoufe ofaffembly.
• rhrrf-Ttsrrfa diift. 1 titiEeoh tlie obferv- a
e ance of the articles graiited to the Maroons to be »c
i the cause.
j Thursday C'.iled for London, the (hip Brunfwick ~~
d jcapt. Douglas, in which went passenger the hon. **
13 j maj. general Walpole. _
,s Ob Sunday evening, a desperate affray happened 63
II | between the sailors belonging to the vessels in the
e harbor, and some of the Spanish Chasseurs; io
r " which two of the foimer and one of the latter were
' r killed, and several wounded. The interference of t o
'* the Police, with the aid of the Military, check- in
T ed this outrage, and has finee preserved the peace of ' B
ls the town.
7 Inquisitions were held oa the deceased, and a ver
cift returned against three of the Spanirds, for the foi
n murder of one of the sailors ; the other re- ets
® turns were wilful murder'againft persons unknown.
The Spaniards aie apprehended and in cltjfe con-
S finement.
Monday was tried, ft the court-house, Bernard,
e a negro, belonging to John Grey, Etq. who joined
e the Maroons when they attempted to bum Indus- .
1 'ty fftate, last November, when he was found
> guilty, and sentenced to be hung in the market of on
■j this town, his head cut off, and placed on the mill- h '''
J lioufe at the eltate; which was put in execution
" the day following.
CHARLESTON, (S.C ) June 23. J
The following is taken from the log book of the —
- sloop Friendfliip, 84 days from Ifleof Bourbon,
f The (hip Columbia, of New-Yoik, William Pell, <J~ C
1 master, failed from Bourboa for Europe on the
I 18th of March.
March 25. The fliip Lenox, John Rich, mas
. ter, failed for Philadelphia. Ch<
March 26. The bark Entcrprize, of Salem, ,io,
capt. Cleveland,arrived at Bourbon, i6e days pas- to '
Cage, from Sakm. 3 } P
8 Apr!! iS. Fifteen leagues so tbe westward ofthe
Cape of Good Hope, spoke tlie (hip Eliza, of Bos.
J ton, from Calcutta • ound to Ollend. She was three
id days out from the Cape ; the mailer informed, that
10 there was but one Britilh 74. gun fiiip lying there,
the crew of which was very sickly.
t. On the I <Sth of June, in ]at. 30, long 74, spoke
t- the schooner Fortitude, Rofs, 6 days out from ihi*
port, bound to the Weft-Indies, all well.
Arrived, Ship Ophir, Stephens, St. Thomas's ;
m. Brig Ann, Swcetfer, Philadelphia ; Principle deli
;e Pa*, Buftamnntc, Havannah ; Sloop Friendftiip
l- Johnfoti, Bourbon,
t. ' —
iv GEORGE-TOWN, July 5.
We understand tl>at the Frrrtdent was at Alexin
( dria yeflerday, and dined with the citizens of that
f. I place who commemorated the declaration of Inde
1. pendente.
Arrived in the river, fliip Peggy, Capt. Lunt,
from Amfterdam»with Ijo paflengeri—all redemp
s tioners but one. ♦ ,
1 he Lottery, No. 2, for the improvement of the
i, city of Wafliington, commenced drawing yellerday,
the memorable 4th of July, and will continue to
n draw 011 Saturday! and Mondays, weekly, until
;. further notice.
; The firft day's drawing will be forwarded in our
; next paper to fubferibers per poll.
a It ha* been determined, with general approba
. tlon, that the principal prize houses shall be erected
s near the Capitol. The fourth in value is already
yr under roof and nearly tensntablc, on Sq. No. 253,
i Lot No. 7, near the Prefidcnt's house, near which
j the other two will be erefled as soon as the funds on
s a frttlement of the lottery will admit.- No more
1 time will be expended in conducing the drawing
than may be absolutely neceflary for the iafety of
- those concerned in the remaining tickets, with a
. view to which, a moderate advance will be rteceflary
from time to time, as the value in the tickets may
- increase.
f " *" r
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
J&RirED.
Days.
Snow Polly, Rcilly, Demerara, 25
| Schr. Mahaley, Howard, New-Providence, 9
Industry, Williams, Nurth-Caroh'na, 10
Sloop Hunter, Lackwood, ditto, 7
CLEARED.
Schr. Almy, Woodman, Alexandria
Betsey, Fletcher, Edenton
Hazard, Bray, Currituck
Dove, Church, Ditto
Betsey, Williams, Ditto
Arrived at Fori-Mifflin.
Ship Mary Ann, Brock, Jamaica
Goddess of Plenty, Thompson, do.
Brig Liza, Thornton, Havannah
Latk, Stilts, Jeremie
Kcrinhappi ch, Green, do.
Polly, Wroth, Port-au-Prmce
Sloop Hero, Brewller, Jeremie
The ships Sally, Weeks, and Ceres, Young, failed
from Graveferid May 1 i,both for Philadelphia.
B'fyf Patty, Wickham, failed from Kingllno,
Jamaitf, for Philadelphia, June 5.
JUST RECEIVED,
50 Tierces f'refh Rice,
For Sale by
EDWARD STOW,
July 9. §lw No. 76, N. Front-street.
Bank United States 4th July, 1796.
THE Dire&ors have declared a dividend of Sixteea
Dollars, on each Share, for the last fix months,
which will be paid to the Stockhold r,, or their Repre
sentatives, at any time after the 14th iriftant.
G. SIMPSON, Cafliier.
Lottery
FOR railing fix thousand fix hundred and Exty-fevcn
dollar* and fifty cents, by a deduflion of fifteen pef
cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a prize, viz.
I Prize of 5000 dollars i« dollars 5000
I 1000 1000
t S o» jo <3
S too loco
•*? 1 . 1 • 1 —rr *CO9
99 jo 49S *
100 JOOO
•000 10 20,000
5 Last drawn numbers of tooo dollars each, 5000
li3 t 44.««
4018 Blanks.
6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44,45»
By erder of the Directors of the Society for eftalr.ih
ing Ufeful Manufa&ures, the fuperintendants of the Pat
erfon Lotteryhive requcfted the Managers to offer the
foregoing Ssheme to the public, and have direaed them
to refund the money to those persons who haye purchaftd
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for ticket*
in this Lottery.
The lottery has a&ually commenced drawing, and will
continue until finilhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
may be seen at the office ol William Blackburn, No. 64
south Second street, who will giveinformation where tick
ets may be procured.
Dated this 17th day of June, 1796.
J. N GUMMING, ■)
■JACOB R. HARDENBERC, > Managers*
JONATHAN RHEA, 3
June 18 eo
All persons having demands
on ANI HONY ROLAND BUSSIER, are requested t#
hring in their accounts on or before the firft day of Augufl
r.cxt, or they will be excluded from a dividend then t»
take place. WILLIAM CHANCELLOR, - )
JONATHAN JONES, C Auditor*
JOSIAH TWAMLEY, }
J«ly 7- I *codjt
For the use of Schools.
Tomkins's Text, Round., and Running
hand copies.
TUST published, and for f»le by W. Young, thecornerof
J - v econd and Chefnut streets, and J Ornirod, No. 41
Chefnut-ftreet. Price of proof imprcilinfls on fine paper. I
dollar. Common, 7,5 cents. Executed in a ftyje superior
to any that have been formerly engraved in the United States,
and not inferior to a«y®f the Kind imported from Europe.
June 30. Bawßw
tFor S"'e, \
'• ■'•at WttlflftMa !::;ov,-u by the tiarii3"of• ,
o' rr 1 ?opC Ir'pn- Wo 11k s .
ir.te i.i r; e county Morris, of New Jer
• f.vjivc miles fro-n ,Mo r ;"i -town ir:<.
l-.Toivn or Ntwark crßtitling q.f 1
■ * ; iraafo jn good repair, with thelv 1 woo'le-i h
-1 > /f, drove by an ovtirHiot sties! of forty f.et diaVrieter, ° v '
railing ho'ife, uif', untl a '. iv-
Mo :i ::!g-houfe, all in good o dor, together with nrr
v?.r, ty of th? mofl approved patterns ot .-ats, keitl 10W
Ac See with a fulHciency of flafk- tlu-refar 0! k
a uV a'fo a great variety of all kinds of ftov,' patterns, d<!
c. co »ir) ?e set of patterns and apparatus iQing po* ' P
uPi set ties. Near the furnace js a large new magazine f<<
ware, scar iron, tScc. 3cc. a large convenient ca; "
p v's and whrelwriglt a blackfmithN (hop wit
t f'r , a nailor's {hop, and a stamping mill, a «oal- /' l 0
;'tat will hoi fix hundred loads of coal, a largt \ r '
a- - • i-nt store, confifling of several rooms, two excel- 1)1 tc
arn& and stables, a flaughter-heufe near the ftorc,
t I t with a c;rcat variety ot houses for the workmen
vzr v o ) renient to the furnace. g
is supplied with water from a number of
%rdfl.rs, which render a supply certain: the pond consists ;
of about thirty acres * the manfion-houi'e is built of stone,
rwA high, with four rooms with fire-places on the No.
Hrlt floor, and a large,handfome hall, and five rooms with deli
four fire-places on the second floor, wish a very fine high 800
garret, in which there are two fire-places, with a hand
foihc piazza in front, the whole length of the house : at
each end of the house is a handsome wing; one used for
a kitchen, with servants rooms above; the other for a
counting-house; and a cellar under the whole house. a well
of the best jvater at the door, smoke and other convenient
out-houfes, with two excellent gardens, in one of which
is a large asparagus bed, several orchards of the bed graft- Test
ed fruit, and one hundred and fifty acres of upland, which eren
may be tilled to advantage, fn front of the mansion-house j pato
and in full view, is a moil beautiful meadow of two hun- !
ffred and fifty acres v in which may now be cut one hundred | m l *
and fifty tons of the best Hay, besides affording a fufficien- ur
ey of pasture for the teams, and as much more meadow '
naay-bc easily put in, besides raising a large quantity of; l *
torn, potatoes and turnips. The lands belonging to this I aw
citato consist of about ten thousand acres; on whic'i are 1 j
the Mines for the works, two of which are of the best ! - fl
quality, one, so near that a (ingle horse and cart will bring l j cu
ten tons per day, the other, a team of four horses rhay j ceec
bring fix tons. Besides the above there are several other crs ,
mines of inferior quality very convenient, the iron of i rece
which is good for nails, and when mixed makes excellent I the
castings. The mines are in good order, with proper lev- in t
els for drawing off the wat«r, and {hafts at proper dift- 2
ances. Near the Works have been discovered several beds afte
of Bog Ore, and there is no doubt, with a little attention 3
a fufficient supply thereof may# be procured. All the £ ro
mines are supplied with proper houses for the miners.
\yithin a mUe and a half of the furnace there is an inex- !
hauftable vein of linveftone ; from whence not only a sup- 1
ply for the furnace may be had, but alio any quantity for ta( -
"building or manure. Within less than a mile of the fur-
nace is about twenty acres of the best double spruce for
beer; and near it is a celebrated mineral spring; and two
and a half miles from the fyrnace, within the tra&, ar«
two valuable sites for Forges and Saw-Mills, on an excel
lent itream of water; and two large ponds may be made,
and a permanent supply may be had, by a small cxpence, "
from a Lake of four miles in length and one mile wide, '
and adjacent a fufliciency of wood may be had : near to
oije of the sites is a good farm-houfe, and about eighty a- j
cres of arable land, a valuable orchard, and meadow to f j v
cut thirty tons o[ Hay ; and in the swamp that will form
the pond there may now be cut sixty tons of hay.
Belonging to the fame Estate, and sa\
within three miles thereef, nearer the Landing, is a good
NEW FORGE, with two fires, in complete order and re
pair, situate on Rockaway river, whith furn flies a con
stant supply of water ; adjoining which is a good conve-
nient dwelling-house, with three rooms and a good kit
chcn on the firft floor, and a good barn and stable; also a j
large, convenient Store, which is now kept for the supply ' tin
of the the country ; and this situation is
very convenient for the works, mucti more so than to hav; pn
the dry-goods store kept at the furnacc.
Adjoining to the foregoing Estate,
and within four miles thereof, may he had if wanted, a
■ tra6t of fix thousand acres of Woodland, and a site for a aJI
Forge, on a stream of water very fufficient in every re- p*
fpe6t; together with several houses new built, ani a tradl
of three hundred and fifty acres of fine low land ; a great
part of which will make, with a little expense, meadow tk,
fo&ic ent to cut one hundred and fifty ton» of hay ; and
now affords a great supply of pafare—the rcflduc is arable in
and woodland. A
AND ALSO TO BE SOLD, ®
Atl that VALUABLE ESTATE, called
Booneton Iron-Works,
Situate in the county of Morris, within eighteen miles
of Newark Landing, and eight miles ot Morris-Town-. "
containing about three thoufand'five hundred acres of land, _
lyinz oh both fides of Rockaway river, for near four
miles.
On the premises is a FORGE with four fires and two
hammers, in complete repair, which embraces the whole
river* a SLITTING MILL, built in the most approved
manner, with two furnaces for heatuag iron, with rosls,
pillar«, -cutters, and every other apparatus in 'he most corn
piece oritvr. witK-a M,—i-£—A— r , -—I I—-r-> 2"
On the fame dam is a very compleat SAW MILL ; so
that the flitting-mill has the full command »f the whole '
river, with a head of twelve feet.
Immediately below, tnd on another dam, is an excel- |
lent new GRIST-MILL, with two run of fti.nes, and f
conftru&ed for a third. The mill is large, and conveni
ent for a merchant mill, and situate ia. a country which
will afford a constant supply of grain.
All the works are in compleat view of the manlion-houfe,
and half a mite of it, which » a handsome, build
ing, with five rooms on the firft floor wit|i fire places, and
four rooms up stairs, all iii excellent repair, with a large
kitchen and cellars, and a well of excellent water at the
Aodf- In front of the house is a piazza, sixty feet long,
aB excellent garden, with a great abundance of the best
kiad of Fruit: the out-houfes are convenient and good;
consisting of a larg_- tyring milk-house, ice-house, fmeke
houfe, fowl-houfe, corn-crib, reot-hbufe, good barns and
stables, &c. fcc. Also, -within view of the manlion
houfe, are twelve dwelling-houses, a counting-houle, a
stone house, occupied as a store for the country and works
a large, convenient house, with fix rooms, four with fire
places, occupied by the clerks; the residue of the houses
are ;<jr forgemen, millers, Sec. There is, adjoining the
ftor_, a "POT-ASH WORKS, in compleat order, n black
smith's Ihop, and wheelwright's Ihop, and other conveni
ent appendages. —-• ■■ * • •"—
As Roc way river runs through this estate about four
miles in which dil'fance near twenty mill-sites may be
made, so o occupy the whole of this very valuable and
cor.ftant supply of water, it may be justly coufidered as a
very vMuable &t>je& for any perionor persons desirous ®f
going into tl ■ manttfaduring liiv;.
On the premises, and adjoining the mansion-house, are
about or.e huiidied acre, yt arable land; whereon are two
of thi ee hundre.l'treev, ef the baft grafted fruit':
ind withiit two miles ami a half of the .orge is a very fine
Farm of two h. odredand fifty acrcsof laud, in the best
and most c mpleat order,-with one hundred acres of mea
dow, two iioui'es, a good bam, and other necessary inir
proveijietrts —the residue is woodland, on which are a
r.umbc- of iiouf-s for the colliers, &c. 4ce. &c.
AND ALSO,
Near thr»? tnoulanS acres of Land; situate in the valley
ef Newfoundland, about fixtscn mile* north weft f;om
; waneinr., jny. ~ ;s of .Morris an "" OS
.v . y ' v fo ) i • l'.v - •".J.*: 1 ■ 1
i; - - ..i, inin . ill v r o, f or the a:
••. n• . ' ;, h :i vein j»' i • : -
o.• 11 wi'ft, fto.n the f-acL.
•If i'"r> I -./Illv: fold mi o.utr torwi , together ?J.r«
h all th * ho sis, oxjii, v/aggons, tools, and every lVh
iem rlt fteceffiry to cirry oa the work;. .There is liovv T
'o. i.le l woo;! end ore for eight mohtlis Malt; To that tn<2 '• •
•'wmace will b" put in blafi the oeguinin,'* of fane. Any J "
>erfdn wfohing to purc'n ife, may hive thu whole as they a
lowarc : there is also wood, &c. 3cc. provided at Boone- tc
The frm« will be payment down the moveable 0
r'y of everrkihd, appertaining to the Furnace, and al
e eighth of the purchase money—the residue in eight I^'
-arly payments, with the Interefc £
A clear and indisputable title will be given for ihe
whotej Apply to Mr Samuel Clarkfon, in Philadelphia, 0
Mr. Peter Mackie, Merchant, New-York, Water-ureet; •• J
or to either of the fubferibers. ...
. . y. j mjcb, ■"*,
Satiiuel Ogden. a
Booneton, Morris County, May 2d, 1796 r
May 14 »w3w 1
; ' . — m * g
, j'v'o ~?u Pubrt/h'rng by the Pointer, j
: Vo. 149, Chefnut-S.treet, and No. 3, Lsetitia Court, a
i delivering'to Subfcrihers, and to be hid it the different
1 Book-Stores in this City, c
The Firfl Number of t
' Berriman & Go's 1V
» ' CHEAP AND ELEGANT EDITION OF f
! The HOLY BIBLE. ;
1 Containing the Old and Nsw, V.
- Testaments and the Apocrypha, wiifi marginal notes and re- t
1 erences An Index; or an account of the mod remarkible g t
e ; palfagesin the old and new Testament, pointin; to the plices
. wherein they happened, and to the places as fcriptuie where
_l ! in they are recorded. —A Table of Time.—Tables of trip-
ture maafures, weightiand coins : with an appendix,eoitain
■ in* rhe method of calculating it? measures oi surface,
f hitherto wantingin Treetifis on this fuijed. A Table of Offices
arid Conditions of men.
8 | CONDITIONS.
5 , 1. Tbefizeof this Edition will be a LARGE FOLIO,
- ; printed an a beautiful new type, and good paper, made par
£ licularly for it, It will be puhlilhrd in Numbers, notto ex
y ; ceed 30, one of which will be delivered weekly to fubftrib- .-
' r ers, at a quarter ot adoliar. Those fubferibers who prefer y
>f ! receiving the work complete, will be attended to l>y fignifying
it I the fame on any of the fubferiptioa papers in rhe Booktkores
'- , in this city.
t- a. There will be an advance in the price, on fuhf''i -.g
Is after the firft of August next.
! 3. Inihecourfeof the Work will be given an elegant
le Frontispiece—From an Engraving of the celebrated .■ -=• if '
5 I GRICNION. r: 7
I Berriman & Co. gratefully acknowledge thevery liberal :r
j encouragement they have met with; and havereafonto belitvr ov
' , that the execution of their edition will anCwer every expee
' tation, and fpetktts own fraifi. ii
r " Mav 36 3 aweow.
>r — —
'o PROPOSAL S
r« FOR CARRYINC THE
Mails of the United States, pa
c * On the fbiiowing routes, will be received by'the Postmaster m
! ' at Savannah, until the firfl ( dfcy of Sep:(jmber next. d\
i. From Savannah by Sunbtiry to Newport Bridge, once a
wuk. la
a " Reccive the Mail at Savannah every Saturday by 9 A M, ar- fcj
t0 rive at Sunbury by 6 PM, and at Newport Bridge on Sun- 1 j. (
m day by 10 AM Returning. Leave Newport Bridge on Sun-
day by 3 PM, and arrive at Sunbury in the evening, and at * n
,(i Savannah on MoiisJsyljy 6 PM.
0( j a. From Vewport Bridge by Darien and Brunfwick to St.
Marv's, oncc in two weeks.
Receive the Mail at Newport Bridge every other Sunday
n " noon, and arrive at St. Marv's the next Wednefdav by 5P M.
. e ~ Returning. Leave St. M»ry's the next day , Thursday by 8 A
M, and arrive a - Newport Bridge the next.Sunday by to A M.
J a Note 1: If either if ike rdutes are alter edify law, during the con.
>ly } tinuance of the Contrails t tk; Contra ftvr is to objerve fuck alterations
i s in carrying the mail, and his p*\ is to be encreafcd &r dimihi/hed, in
v; proportion to the di/lance encreafed or diminished by such alteration.
Note 2 Contract are to be in operation on the Jirfi day oj r
£ Odober next, and to continue for four years until the 30 th Septtm*-
5 ber> 1800, inclufiie.
» a Note 3. ThePofl Mafler General may alter the times oj arrival P
a ajid departure at any time during the continuance oj the Contrails, he
rc " previoujly fiipulating an adequate cmpenfation for any extra expenje
that may be occajioned thereby. F
eat Note 4. Fifteen minutes shall be allowed for opening andclofing r
ow the mail at alt offices where no particular time is fpecificd. 1
ind Note 5. Far every hour 1 s delay (unavoidable accidents excepted) t
ble in arriving after the times prescribed in any contrail, the contractor c
fball forfeit one dollar And if the delay continue until the depart
ure of any depending mail t whereby the mails dejlined for fuck de- t
pending mail shall lofeatrip y the contra&or shall forfeit ten dollors ]
—to be deduaed from his pay.
JOSEPH HABERSHAM\ t
ilcß Post-Master General. j
n : GtvERAL Post Office,
nc Philadelphia, June 28, >7 iaw6w t
bur For Sale,
A Few Casks of First Quality i
5 INDIGO. :
Enauire at No. 11, South Water street.
± Mj Y » tht ftf ,
r?o - Teneriffe Wine,
hole 'T'F.NERIFFE WINE, in pipes, hogfheids, and
X quarter calks, and 170 Filtering Stones, just ar-
Lcel- rived per the fchoeaer Polly & Sally from Teneriffe,and
and for Sale by
h?ch J° hn Crai S»
No. iz Dock street.
)ufe, WHO HAS ALSO FOR SALE,
uild- Best Soft-ihell'd ALMONDS,
and RAISINS in Frails.
arge SHERRY WINE, in Quarter Calks,
the Irish CANVAS,
long, Bristol and Irifli WINDOW GLASS.
best May eo
SHOT
s and /AF 11 files, from 3» lb to Grape,
ifion- Vy canionics, Pots, and oth»r callings executed; at the
le, a shortest notice, , j
forks Nail rods, frum iod to spike,
1 fire- Hoop Iron, of all sizes, for calks or cutting into nails, from
oufes a brad to xad nails,
5 the Anchors, from 17 Cwt.to ioolb.
ilack- Bar Iron,
ivcni- A Quantity of' James River Tobacco,
Carolina Pork.
t four Herrings in barrels,
iy be Kiln-dried core meal in Hhds. and Bbls.
le and Rye flour &c. to be fold by
d as fi a f Levi Hollingjhvorth & Son.
° U3 * Auwtl 4. j
-etwo Twenty Dollars Reward.
fruit- "TT TAS STOLEN, last evening, from the pasture of the
ry fine V\ fubferiber, a black Rockingham GELDING, 15
' beTt j., hands hijh, has a star, and some white under his
m : el throat, (the part being formerly chafed)'; has a leather on
y iniT his neck, the mane on the near fide, his foot-locks fretted
are a W ilh a clog, and i«a horse of much boneand fi«e. Who
ever fecores him with the thief, shall have the above re
ward, or for theHorfe alone a very generous compenfa
!valley tion. JOHN LAWRENCE.
: fiom I Jaly J eo4w
I
of ai*: Wa.i««Kgton,j
;;• T;V.O, m 5 "■; '' v j •' ; *
Surveyprui ilw ijsrnipr) •
; ; :oi
conoi r'Ojis»
I. THis P!*n fliattW an a*i4 —
impTeffi m, of i&Jbt fo'ir f-et fcpa~e, whereon will rv; t
accurately delineated th-' nsfcural'ftate oi the vroua \
contained within the lia •- pF the ci v •'•" -i
rifihg ground*; fpr : , rrrn*, ere.lis. See y/it.v • *
of thj grand a venues, rtr ets, fqiur s pu->iic approyri-
ations for tvalk«, jrar ichs. p.s'nor forre&ly kid out and tW(
permanently eftabli-lied —the river Potomak, and E m-
ern Branch, oppofife rhe city—the channels, coasts
haibours.and of the fa.ne, as taken by ord-r
of the Board of Qpnimiffioijers.
11.. On fides of the Plan ftiatl be represented
ful elevation of the PrefiifentYHoufe and the Capitol.
UL.Torond r the drawing- still more intelligible and life
ful, it fhali be accompanied by a Pamphlet, containing
laws.of the general particular governments,
relpe&ing' the location and eftablifttment ot the city—
the orders and regulations of the Board of Commifiion
ers, approved by the President of the United Stat ;s, re
fpe<fting the purchafeand improvement of lotitherein--
a description of the city and adjacent'country
—of tha river Potoinak, with the productions,- ftace of
cultivation, commerce, population, Isfc. o£ the country
through which that vail river Rqv/s.
IV. This work will b» published uri&er the fari&ign of the
Commiflioner3 of the City, and ft ail meet w&h tfieir
full approbation before it ap-pears in public; and Mr.
Freeman pledges him felf to/nakeit as accurate ufeful
, and entertaining as poQible.
V. The price to fubferibers 5 Collars, to be paid on recep-
tion of the Plan and PampHlet. no
Surveyer'sOlfice, City of Walhington, June 8, 1 V 96.
Subscriptions will be taken at the Surveyor's 01T1 -e, :■
in the city; Mr. Rice's Bookftorcs in Baltimore and Phila-» «;
delphia; and at the principal Bookstores on the Continent*
Jun* 17 aa*r;,w
For Sale,
A LARGE ELEOANT A>ID WELL FINISHED'
Three-story Brick House,
(The late refidcnce of (General Walter Stewaft)
TTTITH a LOT of GROUND thereuntp belonging, pn _
VV the weft fide of Third-street, near Unipfi-ftrcet
; containing in front 32 feet, and in depth joo feet, to an
-alley leading into Union-ftrcet T! TituiVji 31 feet front
, ttid so feet >ieq: ■, -.he le%?r»l rooms eoetsuw in-it are'
' tommo' -■<■> eorotr-, .eiy finin _d, the twofirft I
t :>tries are are lo mahogany ■
iuorsinthe ;fe, with mahoga- an
ny rails «.:i hi'' i'cheii is in the cell- aB
1 er which et't, .nd finiftied with an 01
e oven, itc "f- i v ims' hall and large - c
- -,ri.ne-cd a h n, m front of whioh isan a "
area* in *5 pump The yard is vaulted. °
Cor-.iniuaiti, . e r.'lbtt'i-it ineat three-story ' r
brick ho*fe, Oil t' - or-h <: t ..t ■ -flreet, contain
ig 30 !■ et front by •;. •» ver part of which
at pre.' r occa _ *s a compting-houfo, and the upper | n
part divided into well-finifhed large chanibfts. Thishoufe e>
:r may at a small expense be converted 11 'to a convenient C
dwelling : The ftreet'door is very handfbme, and the front
a »nd back have Venetian window-ihutters. Adjoining the
lad house, upon the lot belonging to the firft, are creeled
'■ bathing-rooms, &c. There Sre likewise very good coach
hoafe and (lables nnilhed equal (or nearly so) with any in
the city, on a lot containing on Union ilreet 30 feet, and q
" in depth on the weft fide of said alley $7, feet. There are *-
t good cellars under the whole of the buildings, and a wine
room over part of the stable, with a hay-loft over the re
mainder. For further particulars enquire of
( EDWARD & Co.
At their Office No. 64 Dock-street. between Walnut & Pear
I. eo streets.
I 6ih monrhj!4th, uo6. . , ''' ! • " :—
"i War-Office of the United States,
May 4th, 1796.
°> ' I 'HE following Rules, explanatory of those publilhed
1 the 15th Februarv, 1789, are to be observed by all
perfnns entitled to Lands, in purfuince of refolyes of
kt Congress.
n j e Every certificate of the acknowledgment of a deed or
power of attorney, either before a trotary public or other
ng magistrate, mull, in addition to what is usual, set forth
that the ptrfon making the acknowledgment is known to
■J) the notary or other magistrate ; for which purpose words
for of the following import must be inserted in the certificate.
rt. " And Ido moreover certify that the faia A B making
if- this acknowledgment has been for personally
known to me."
If the notary or other magistrate has reason to believe
that he is the person he represents himfelf to be, he wil
also certify it.
Andifthe proof be made by a witnefsor witneffes^i"-or
they must swear to some general ftateof their knowledge of
him, which matter must be set forth in the certificate ; and
the notary public, or other raagiflrate, before whem
acknowledgment is made, must also set forth that the wit
neis or witnesses has or have been for upwards of
perienally known to him.
If a justice of the peace is employtd, the clerk «f the
court of the corporation or county must certify that such
person is a justice of the peace of the co'jitv or corpora
— »=■»" — ■'1 r -y lj.» one to n»
nd aa. as such. JAMES M'HENRY, =
ar . Secretary of War.
ind Ma y »• I awsm I
To be Sold,
At No. 128, North Second-Street, and by fevsral of
the Apothecaries in this City.
rI TR ANSFERS of the right to remove pains and inßamma
-*■ tions from tHc human b«dy, as secured to D r ELISH A
PERKINS, hy patent, with inftrumentg and directions ne
cessary for the pr«ctk«e. This mode of treatment is particu
larly ufeful in relieving pains in the head, face, teeth, breast,
fide, ftomarh, back, rheumatisms, recent gouts, See. &c.
Notwithstanding the utility of ihis practice, it is not pre
- lumed but there are cases in which this and every other
remedy may sometimes fail.
June 18, law
Urbanna Mill Seats ,
SITUATE in Cecil county, Maryland, on the banks o
the river Sufquehanna, about one mile above tide wa
ter, and commanding the water of that important river,
the channel conducing the trade of which comes so near
the Mill Seats as to make it convenient to speak the boats;
and Mills may be so fituatcdas to receive them along thfiir
walls, and by water lifts take in \heir cargoes.
There is a power fufficient for many and any kind of
ufeful Water Works, and so much may bejuflly said in
commendation of this Scitc as would be inconvenient to
• insert in a newspaper. publication.
Those who may desire to be concerned, will probably
find tc emfelves well pleased on viewing the situation.
Leases for any term of years may be obtained on appli-
L# cation to the fubferiber, living on the premises.
f 'he CLEMENT HOLLY DAT.
>, 15 April 19. , law3m
r his ■
etted A Post-Chaise wanted.
Vho- WANTED immediately to purchase, a fccond-hand Post
- re- Chaifc, with Harness for two horses and Urals Furniture,
enfa- It must be in good condition.
E. Enquire at No. 73 south Front-street.
iw July 4 f s
Bank of North-America,
J'lff-i, i*9s:
- -v-r o r f'lC > ; :t ' ' ' • i
%. . sixjsit pjLff Ijjfy* t^t * l:i % V c > 4r - w "*>tc"* wit I
t j l;< jofdjfs a^ivrime ier t f nc io I .i
Ky nnltjr <»f th ' ■ »r, 1,
JOHN NIKON', PrrlirirMt.
*_ r —
Washington Canal Lottery,
no. r.
WHER.EAS the State of Maryland has authorised
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
two hundred, and fifty-dollars, for the pv.Vpofe of cutting
i a Canal through th: City of WaMngton, from the Po
tomacto the Ea'tern Branch Haruour.
The following is .he SCHEME of No. I.
Viz -I Prise of 20,000 dollars, 20,000
I ditto 10,000 10,000 .
7la (I drawn") „
Tickets, each \ S '°°° 003
6 ditto 1,003 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,003'
20 ditto 100 2,000
55 ditto JO 2,750
5750 ditto 12 69,008
To be raised for the Canal, 26,250
Prizes, 175,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollirs, - 175,o»o
The Commissioners have taken the Securities re
quired by th£ aforefaid a<sl for the punctual payment ®f
the prizes.
The dViWinjr'of this Lottery will comMence. without
delay, as soon ai tfti Tickets are fold, ofwhicii timely
notice wril ha given
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after (he
drawing is finithad, shall be conftder d ai rilinqutfhtd for
!■ the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
/SignedJ NO f t.EY YOUNG,
, DANIEL CARROLL, o/D.
• LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE VVAtKER,
Wm M. DUNC ANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of Washington, Fel}. tl. 5
Eo*~S«lc f " - ; • r
A Valuable Grift and Saw Mill,
IN New Jersey, near-the Forks of little Egg-Harbour.
The Grift Mill is sixty by fort) feet, two water wheels,
and calculate 3 for four run of Stones, with screen, sans.
and boultmg-doths, &c. The Saw-Mill has two fav. s,and
capable ofcuttingfive to 6 too thousand feet of Beards per
year-. A valuable piece «f Cedar Swamp, within a mile
and a half of the Mill, and within three quarter* of a mile
of a Landing The Lumber, &c- may be taken -by water .
from the mill tail.
A 1.30 FOR SALE,
Several Valua&le Tra&s of Land,
In Pennsylvania, for all of which payment will be receiv- .
■ ed in the notes of Messrs Morris and Nicholfon, or in
: Cash. ; ••
:| For further information apply to the Printer.
: May 17. .
1 City cf Washington.
! SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11,
; I - FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE.
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent ) 20,000 dollars, & )
r dwelling-house, J carti 30 000, are J s°' ooa
I ditto ic.ooo & caffc 25,000 40,000
I I ditrn 15.000 St oafh 15,00 a 30-,000
, I x ditto 10,000 & cadi 10,000 20,000 I
I ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5.,000 & calfc j,OOO 10,000 '
j I X cash prize of <10,000
2 do. 5,000 each, are, - 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - • 10,000
20 do. 500 - - 10,000
)r 00 do. 100 » - 10,000
;r 2io do. 50 10,000
; h 400 do. 25 - 10,000
O 1,000 do. 20 , - 20,00®
Is i 15,000 do. xo - 150,000
e. ,
'5 i 6.739 Prizes.
35, iii Blanks.
' e 50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 40,0000
il ___
N. 8.. To favour those who may take a quantity of
ir Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the L .st draw*
of ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one :
jd And approved notes, securing payment in either motley
a or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be received for
I any number not less than 30 tickets.
This Lottery will affofd an elegant specimen of thepri
vate buildings to be ere&ed in the City of Washington—
j Two beautiful designs are already fel'-Aed for the entire
I fronts on two of the public squares; from these prawinsp
a ~ 1 it isprOD"*"'" l - 'ir-en-;Y r , ur ..rri-er '
llr I as soon as poflible after this lottery is fold, aoJ-re convey
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in j'
j the manner described in the fchemc for the Hotel Lottery.
A nett deduflion of fivtper cent, will be. made, to defray
I the neceflfary expenses of printing, &c. and the futplus
will be made a part of the fund intended for the Naili inaJ
of\ Univerlity, to be etedled wit'iin the city of Wafliingion.
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
11. I fold off.- -The money prizes will be payable in thirty day*
IA | after it is finifhsd ; and any pr zes for which fortuiatc
le- I numbers aie not produced within twelve months acts: th«
:u- I drawing is elated, are to be confidercd as given tovards
ill, the funi for the University ; it being determined to fettle
I the whole business in a year from the ciding of the draw
rc" I ' n g> afi d to take up the bonds given as fecun:y.
lcr I The real for the payment of the Pizes,
I are held by the President and two Direflors of the 3ank
_ of Columbia, and are valued at more than half tie a
1 mount ol the lottery.
I The twenty four gentlemen who by appointnvnt of
I the late Commiflioners aflifted in the managemen; «f the
S 0 Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake this arduqis talk
Va " 1 a feeond time on behalf of the public ; a fufTicient num
ber of these having kindly accepted.it is hoped that the
I f r '«nd» to a National University and the other federal oV
; I jedls may continue to favor the design.
ICIT 1 By accounts received from the diSerent parts of the
j Cpntineut as well as from Europe, where, thq tckets
? I have been sent for sale, the public .are allured th?v-*he
I drawing will fpeedity cohimcnoe, and that lie tare and
0 caution unavoidably necessary to insure a fafe disposal of
I the tickets, has rendered the fnor suspension indispensable.
7 SAMUEL BLODGET.
pli- I «§• Tickets may be had at the Bank of Colum'aJ of
I James Weft &Co. Baltimore; of Peter Gilman, Boftjn j
I of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard \?«lls r
n I Cooper's Ferry.
•o*. PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO, L
—No. 119—
C H ESN UT-STR E ET. /
I (Prise. Jlight Dollars per Annum.]