of the Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
n WEDNESDAT EVENING. JULY 27,5706. fTor.rwt T.
r 21 • I - ——r —; —" > 1 ■
- *rn k rr -*-» hr /"\ «rr-* T y-% I I~\T T' 1 \T f~\ T A Ti TA ( 117 v I ♦V. « I ] *-. I^. i C.'». .. ~ _..
Schooner LITTLE JOHN.
F 0 R' SdJ* E* u
THE School* LITTLF. JOHN, w
CAPTAIN BOYD,
Jlfl a BOUT 18 months old, a verv talt _
J\ filling vessel, on Virginia Pilot boat tJ
plan, now laying at South ftveet wliar ,
"carries near oco barrels, is-ready to take _
in a cargo ; a liberal credit wiUbewvco. si
Apply to PETER BLIGHT.
July 19. ,oteod I
—* ——— - j
Tuft Arrived,
In the Olio Molly, John F-oft, Matter, from Liver,wnj,
5000 Bushels Best fine ftoved SAL I,
000 Buflsr'.s HOUSE CO "L,
And 118 Crates of QUEENS W ARE affortrd,,
FOR SAI.SBY
Philip Nicklin & Co.
JJ. 3. TyE S; 1 ID
Ship MOLLY, j
TS for SALE or CHARTER, (he...» 4 «
1 years old, Philadelphia buill, of white n
o»k. win well faked and carries about 4400 barrels ot Hour.
For terms apply as _above.
July 83 —
Advertisement.
On Saturday the 30th inft. will be fjld at public auc
tion n
The new (hip '
"OURTHEN 310 tons, with her
n malls and spars as delivered by 1
the carper-.ter, good judges have pronounced that "(he |j
it a faithfully builc veflel, of good and well fea'oned
matt-rials, one thousand dollars will be required of the .
purchaser at Uit time of sale, and far the remainder a t
credit will be given of 3, 6,9, and 12 months, the pay- 0
ments to he secured by notes negotiable at the Bank o, (
Alexandria, with approved riidorfers. *>
JOHN MANDEVILLE, 1 Trifltv for tbc 1
GEORGE CLEMERSTON, &. [ creditors vf Jtto . I /
ELISHA G. DICK. 3 &**»> V c °-
13 d t 30th. _
For Barbados,
Th'e Brigantine
F A ivi E, '
Francis Knox, Mafcer,
-Hi TTAS accommodations for paT-
J7X fengers, and is expelled to fail on
Thurfuay next. For freight of a few barrels or passage,
apalv to capt. Knox, at Hamilton'" wharf, or
Ju'y *3 6] KEARNY WH 4.RTON.
For Sale, Freight, or Charte£,
The Schoencr
ML ANGELICA,
imFLwSml / v NF. hundred and twenty tons burthen —
fix months old, aftauiich, faithfllly
buifT fajt> failing vessel, handsomely finiflitd off, and well
found inavery particular. For terms apply to
B. RHODES,
On board said schooner, lying at Bicfeley and Bohlen's '
wharf, the firft above Market street.
WHERE THKRE ARE TOR SALE, 1
A few half-bbls. Prime Me/s Beef.
July 24 $ 1
For Sale or Charter,
BURTHEN about 1000 Bills, of flour—fhe may be sent
#0 Ilea at a faiall tx pence, her faUs and rigging being iri
vci j good order—apply to
fames Campbell, or
George Latimer.
April, 29. ' §
LOST or LEFT,
Atfome place in the city or vie mty of Philadelphia,
which is hot known —\ note drawn by lfaac Beers, H'q.
of the City of New-Haven, (Connecticut,) for 150 dol
Jars drawn in favor of the fuhferiber, payable in March
next .As the note was not indorsed and payment is flop
ped it can be of no use to any one but the nwnen Who
ever has found t .e said note and delivers the fame to the
Printer at No. 1.9 Ciiefnut Street, or at the fubferibers
No. Carters Alley, (hall receive ten dollars raward.
Chejter Atwater.
July 26, 3t.
Wm. HOLDERNESSh,
No. 76 High Street,
HAS received, by the latest arrivals from Europe and
the Eafl Indies, a well feledlcd assortment of Silk
Meretry, Linen Drapery and Haberda(hery" Goods ; which
he will lell, Wholesale and Retail, on the lowed terms ;
AMONGST which AilE,
Some fine India muslins embroidered with gold and silver
Superfine Book, Jaconet, and Mulmul ditto
Do do do do Handkerchiefs
black taflfetiesjuttftrings and colorad PerfiaiK
Bani'ano Hindkerchiefa
Xiong and (hort Nankeens
English Mantuas of the firft quality
Damask tahle lineo and napkins, very fine
Silk Hosiery, an elegant assortment
Thead and cotton do
Umbrellas—green (ilk, oil'd d». and da cloth
French cambrics, very fine
Irilh Linens, do. &c. &c. June 14 §
Just Arrived,
In the Snow Boston, James Kirkpatrick, master from Li
verpool,
Jooo BuflieU SALT ;
100 Crates QUEENS WARE ; and
An Assortment of SHIP CHANDLERY ;
FOR SALE
On board, at Pine-llreet wharf. Apply to
fames Campbell, or
George Latimer.
April 19. j
e> NOTICE.
There will befijld on Thuifday the 4th of Augufl, at
the Merchants' cpffe: house. in Second street,
One thouland lhares of the stock of
the North America Land Company.
If not previously disposed of.
Philadelphia, 20th July. dts
X
TAKE NOTICE,
THAT application will be made for the renewal o
the certi'.cates, iffui-d by Joseph Nourfe,
Kegifler of t!.e Treasury, in th- name of Roger Grit
wold, Esq. of Norwich, Coniie'!Vi.;ut—
1 certificate, fix per ctnt domellic (lock, No. 13,907 °
' —dated the 17thDecember, 5795, hearing intc-refl from t
1 the firft day of January, i-qi, for i,sn; 65100 dol- a
' 1 ditto. thre» per cent. do*n.;!lic stock, No. 10,68t |,
: dated December 16. 179.-, bearing ir.terelt from the 0
* firft day of January, 1191, for 994 30-100 dollars. ■_
I dilt", deferred flnik, No. 9,166 —dated the 17th I
December, 179?, bearing interest from the firll Jauu
" ary, 1801, for 793 S3-100 dollars.
Said certificates are supposed to have been loft or
fto en in this city some time in December or jauua y
1 last.
> JOSEPH 1 HOMAS,
No. 59, North Front-^reet.
Philadelphia, July it, 1796. d6w.
—
For Sale,
A Three (lory BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut
street, between Front and Second ftraets, in which
i i Messrs. James Calbraith & Co. have for man} years (and
c now do) carried on business.
PoffiKion will be given in one month, or sooner.
For terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or
HECTOR CALBRAITH. 1
April 11.
- THE SALE OF ~ i
The TOWN, and OUT LOTS of the TOWNS •
of ERIE, WATERFORD, ERANKLIN ,
and WARREN. <
r A DVERTISED for sale hy the State Agents, in the Pbifof- I
y /x Gazeue and Uutverfal Daily Advertiser, to be i
e Sold in the City of Pniladclphia ; will commence at the City
Tavern or Coifee-Houfe in Second-Street, in tha laid city, on
Monday ti»e 25th day of July inft. at 7 o'clock in the even-
C ing.aod by. adjourn meat from day w day, from, 1
a is o'clock at noon, until two o'cloiV, and from 7 ■
" o'clock in the evening until the whole of the hid LO FS and
'f OUT LCT-'Sare difpoied 6f. The conditions ot falc will be
made known, and the plans »f the said LOIS and OUI '
LOTS be (hewn ar the time and place of sale.
'' By order of William Irvine, Andrew Ellic tt and Geor?t Wilson
»• Agent.. EDWaKD FOX, Auctioneer.
July 22.
Sales of India Goods.
The Cargo of the ftiip Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cal
cutta and Bengal,
CONSISTING OF
f_ \ Large and general assortment of Bengal and Madras
n f\. *CO I'TON and SILK. GOODb. ;
AMONG WHICH ARE
A. variety fine marked ai^dplain Mujlins,
Doreas, Sr*c. Also,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
In boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER.
For Sale I>y
Willings & Francis,
No. ai Psirn Street.
June 8 . §
On Monday next, 25thinft. (July,)
*s Will be landed at South itreet wharf, the cargoes of Superb
Weft Indian and Ifabclla, from Jamaica and Hjivanna, con
fiding of #
Molasses in Hogsheads,
- Coffee in hogsheads, barrels & baa;s,
PCR SALE BY
PETER BLIGHT,
Who has also for sale,
A quantity of Jamaica GINGER,
it Pimento & 1 T „
" Cocoa, \ Ba S S '
And 150 boxes Hambro' WINDOW 7 by g, will
be fold chcap,
July 2 9 diot & tuth & s tot
~ Take Notice,
' j 'HAT the Snbfcriber intends to mwe appliea-
I tion for the renewal of a Certificate, No. 1609,
J' for 4000 dollars, dated the 14th December, 1795, bearing
c j l interest at 5 A per-cent. from ift January, 1796, in the
name of David Dunderdale & Co. of Leeds, in Yerk
(hire, merchants. The fame i« foppofed to have been loft
j. g on its way to New York, under cover to Bleecker &
, rs March, of that place, on the 6th of January laft
d. Thomas M'Euen.
Philadelphia, aid June, 1796. J w
CABLES,
From 16 to 9 J inches, for sale by
nd • Jeremiah Warder,
ilk J M S No 12 north Third*ftrcet.
eh .
Landing
rcr From on board ths Nancy, William Belcher, mas
ter, from Bourdeaux, a cargo, confiding of—
[ns 360 Hhds. CHOICE CLARET,
232 Cafe» of bottles each CLARET,
286 do. of 24 do. WHITE WINE,
BRANDY, SWEET OIL, and
1 TRUNK of RIBBONS,
For Sale by
F. Coppinger.
July 2 3- . dtf.
Just arrived,
A ' 220 boxes best Claret,
Containing two doaea each, for sale, Wholesale & Retail, by
William Sheajf,
*d 6 July as. No, 168 High-flrect.
11 1 . —-
Public Notice is given,
j~"0 the merchants and others concerned in th« (hipping
at State-Island, under quarantine-, that a Cart will
attend every mo.ning, sundays excepted, from nine to
ten o'clock, at the Health office, No. 31 Walnut-flreet, to
convey provisions or other Refrefhments to the Hospital,
and for the use of the crews.
a It is expe&ed that the Bags, Baskets, or other packas;-
with supplies, will be direA'td with th« name of the vel"-
31 fel and capt :»i they are intsnded for, to prevent millakes
at delivery.
y' By order of the Board of Health for the port of Phila
delphia, LEVI HOLLINGSWORTH, Chairman.
July 13 §
' ' '
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given, T**
"J"*!! AT 3fjrc(;ably to an aft of Cougicfs of the United | of
1. Siatesot America, p-ifTcd at PhtUdclphia, ihe sßth. day j per
of May, 1796 ; laying duties on Carriages, for the convey- < j
a nee of perfonj, and repealing the former a£ts for that pur- | 281
oolc.—That rhere ihall bf levied, collected and paid, upon |
all carriages for the conveyance of peiloi*«, which shall be .
kotby or for aoy pcrit>i», for hta or her own use, 01 to ict j |
o'*t to hit, or f or the convoying ot palfengers, the ievetal du- j
iit»» and wtes follow ing, to wit. I\ t
For and every Coach, 15 dols. tt j
OOf»n evc/y Chariar, 19 (( ,
upon every Chariot, it doU; t4
upo»v every Port Chaise, 12 dols. (<
upon every Pi>ae.on, wiihor without 9 dol»*
upon-every Coach<e, 9 dola.
upon other Carriages, having panne 1 work atjov, 11 J
with blinds, glaffesor curtains, 9 fiois. " t
upon lour wheel carriages, tjaving framed posts and M t
topi with Iteel fp ings, 6 ciois. " t
anon tour w*:eel top Carriages, with wooden or iron u j
springs or jacks, 3 dols. " <
upon curricles with tops, 3 cob. ft {
upon cnaifes with topSj 3 dois. *4 <
upon chairs with tops, 3 dols. «
Ufon lulkies with top*, 3 dols.
ui*» other two whceUop carriages, 3 dols."
u (< on two wheel caniageo, with iieel or iron springs,
3 dols. .
For and upon all other two wheel carriages, a dols. r
upon every four wheel carriage, having tramed posts P°
and tops, and «pon wooden fpais, 2 dois. ere
The ColK dors of the Revenue of the firft iurvey ©1 the is<
Diftriftof Pennsylvania, will attend daily, until the 30th day gr;
«f September next, for the purpose of receiving the duties on
Carriages, at No. 117,10 Race or SalfafraJ street, in the City /
of Philadelphia, at the house of Daniel S. Clair, Efq in the
County of Montgomery ; and at the house of Abraham Du
bois, Esq. in the County of Kucks; of which all persons pot tor
felfird ol fiifcb Carriages are desired to take noiiee. or
Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign distilled fpiri
tilous liquors, that liceocei will be granted to them ; one li
sorter Sox carrying on the ot retailing of Wines, in a m»
le f f,qtiantit.y, or in lef^Quantifies than 30 gallonsT—and oor- att
licence for carrying on the business of retailing Spirituous li- r.ie
quors in leis quantities than 2Q gallons, at the fame time and ht
at the lame places, by the officers legally authorized to graut ou
luch licences. ly
WII.LIAM NICHOLS,
Infpeftor of the Rcveftue of the firft survey
of the diftrift oi Penufjlvania.
Office of Infpe£lion,at )
Philadelphia, 21ft July, 1796 > * 3° f-
bej
A Young NEGRO GIRL, 11
Of Fourteen years Old y FOR $AL E y
SfiK has near Eleven Years to serve, is healthy, and well
acquainted with the business of a Chamber Maid, and
other house work. Enquire of the Printer.
July 25. . d tf
Twenty Dollars Reward.
WAS STOLEN, last evening, from the pa flu re of the
fubferiber, a black Rockingham GELDING, 15
1-2 hands high, has a star, and some white under his
throat, (the part being formerly chafed) ;hasi leather on
hi. neck, the m.me on the near fi<!e, his foot-locks fretted
with a ciog, ar.d i«,a horse of much bone and size. Who
ever ftiures him with the thief, Ihall have the above re- ■
ward, or for the Horse alone a very generous compensa
tion JOHN LAWRENCE.
July 7 eo4W
Now PubStJh) r:g by the Printer,
At No. 3, I.afctitia Coifrt, delivering to Subscribers, r
and to be had at the different Boak-Stores in this City, ■'.
Berriman 8c Co's e
CHEAP AND ELEQAN-r EDITION OF
The HOLY BIBLE. •
Containing the Old and Naw J
Testaments and the Apocrypha, with marginal notes andte
ctences. An Index ; or an account of the mod remarkable
I paflagesin the old and new Testament, pointing to the places
whercitvthey happened, and to the places of fcriptdre where
in they arc recorded.—A Table of Time.—Tables ot scrip
ture mcalures, weights and coins : with an appendix,contain
ing the method of calculating its measoris of surfacec j
hitherto wanting in Treatises on this JubjeS, A Table of Ojjiets
and Conditions of men.
' CONDITIONS
[ l. The size of this Edition will be a LARGE FOLIO, {
printed on a beautiful new type, and good paper, made par
ticularly for it, It will be publiihed in Numbers, notto ex
ceed 30, one of which will be delivered weekly to fubferib
: ers, at a quarter of a dollar. Those fubferibers who prefer
receiving the work complete, will be attended to by
the fame on any of the fubfcTiption papers in ihe Bookltores
in this city.
2. There will be an advance in the price# on fubferibing
after the fiifl of August next.
3. In the courfeof the Work will be given an elegant
Frontispiece—From an Engraving of the celebrated artist,
Gr 1 cm ion.
Bf.kriman 8c Co. gratefully acknowledge the very liberal
encouragement they bavemet with; and have reason to believe
that the execution of their edition will answer every expeo
tation, and speak its own praifc.
May 26 gaeoww.
Lottery !
FOR railing fix thousand si* hundred and (ixty-feven <
dollars and fifty cents, by a deduction of fifteen per
cent from the prize*, and not two blanks to a prize, viz.
I Priac of jooo dollars k dollars 5000
i 1000 1000
l joo 500
5 100 loco
zo 100 aooo
99 SO 495°
joo aj 5000
aooo 10 10,000
5 Last draws numbers of 1000 dollars each, jooo
*33» Prizes. 44,450
4018 Blanks.
y 1 —
6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44,450
By erder of the Directors of the Society for eftablilh
ing Ufeful Manufactures, the fuperintendants of the Pat- 1
erfon Lottery have requested the Mapagers to offer the 1
foregoing Seheme to the public, and have directed them
to refund the money to ihofe persons who have purchased 1
II in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets 1
0 in this Lottery.
l'he lottery has adually commenced drawing, and will 1
1 continue until finilhed. A lift of the Blank* and Prizes t
may be seen at the office of William Blackburn, No. 64
south Second street, who will give information where tick
• ets may be procured.
Dated this 17th day of Juno, 1796.
J. N GUMMING, ")
JACOB K. HARDENBERG, /-Managers.
JONATHAN RHEA, )
June 18 e«
Treasury of the United States^
I "X"j"QTICE"ij hereby given to persons who ?re or
! JL\ may be Creditor? of tlie Umtltf-State... tot any far.*
d) of tti * /,tutted Debt, or Slock, hearing a j.rcfent interejt rv
y J per ccn'^uper axnvtn. .
f I lit, *! i...t pursuant to an A& of Congress pa(Ted ou the
r " | 28th day of April, 1796, imitUM an in jddition to a a
D i siA, intituled " An ad making fuither r>r.-vifion lor t'na
le I support of public Cridit, and (or the redemption of the
" j public debt," tli- fairt debt or l.ock will b; reimhiirfed and
'* paid in rm.nner following, to wit. Firll, by dividends
" to be made en the la;t days of March, Juif- and Septefn
•' bcr for the present ye-r, and from the year oae thoufi nd
" fcy«S»fcor»ira I uui aim iy-fevcri, to the year one thcu
" faad eight hun. red & eighteen inrluEve.at th& rate of
" tine and one half per centum upon the original capital.
" Secondly, by dividends to be made on rhe' lad day of
:, " December tor the present yesr, and.from the year one
" thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year
d •< one thoufandeiglit hundred and fevintteri inclusive, at
" the rate of three and one half per centum upon the c.,-i
---" ginal capital; and by a dividend to be ma c on the laii
" day of December, in the year one thousand eight huu
" dred and eighteen, of such ,um, at will be then u-'e
•' quate, according to the contrail, for the Cnal rsdeir.p
---" lion of th ft id llock."
xd. All diftin&ion between payments on account of
s Intcreli and Principal being thus abolilhed by the eflahlifh
meiit oi the permanent rule of reiinburfement abovs de
l'cribed, it has become neteffary to vary accsrdingly the
b powers of attorney for receiving dividends; the public
S. creditors will therefore observe that the following form
ic is eftabii&edlor all powers of attorney which'-may be
ly granted after the due promulgation ol this notice, viz.
in KXOiV ALL MEN BY 'THESE PRESENTS, that
'V 1 °f
ie do male, C-i.jl.iAc and appoint
°f my true and laivful At
torney, for me, and in my name, to receive the dividends -wbch ere,
or fiatl he payable according to laiu,on the (here describing the
lUick) Jlan*rs'i inmy.'iamtih the book: of (here deferibing the
books of the Treasury or the Commissioner of Loam,
j where the flock is credited) from (here insert the com
a mencement and expiration of f ime for which the power of
)f« attorney IS to continue} ivith ponver also an attorney or aiter—
1j- nits under him for that purpofc to muie andfubflitute, and to do all
id laiufnlnHi rvquj.tef, ejfettinv thepremifei, hereby ratifying and
ut a,/firming all ijjai my said mtorney or Litfuhjiitute Jlaii lawful
ly do y by 'virtue hereof.
In IVitnefs hereof\ I have hereunto ft my Hand and Seal the
c y day .of in the year
Sealed and Dcli'verei
in presence of
BE I'T JCNOIVJt r , that pn the day of
— befre me personally came
within nam id and acknowledged the above letter of attorney to U
his aft and detd.
In tejiimuny •whereof I have hereunto set my Hand and cjjiK*
ell Stcl the day and'year last afortfaid.
nd Given under my Hand at Philadelphia, this twen
tieth day of July 1796, puj-Jfyaiit to dire&icns
from tile Secretary of the Treasury.
SAMUEL MEREDITH,
1 re&furcr (f the United States.
7"b 23* IV &st I J.
He For sale by the Tubfcribers,
K.- 5 IN PtMN-SXREET,
130 quarter Chests frell. Hyson Tea;
ISO (jitto <io. frefli Sotichong Tea;
, 0 . 3°° Boxes China, containing ftnall tea setts of 4»
rt . pi ecei ;
j- a _ 400 pieces Ban,d.anoes.
Willing & Francis.
January ,;o. jtaw.
University of Pennsylvania,
rs July '6, >796,.
' /THE Summer Vaealior. will take pl2ce on :V!ondc;» next,
' tlie 1 B'.h inlt. and co ntinue for r week'.—The diller.
ent Schools wiih'h* fcveral Tutor s will accordingly rc.-
assemble on Monday, the t jih day of Au^uft.
By the Faculty, Wu, Roc rs, Src'v.
New Hat and Hosiery-store,
WHOLESALE AND . ETAIL,
ice, By WILLIAM M'DOUGALL,
No. 1 34 Market-Jlrect,
a!n _ Third door from the corner of Fourth, fsuth fide
cee Men's Black American and Englilh HATS, of various qui
or litits and prices
' Ditto Drahs aod Green underi *
Ladies' ditto, black, and a large adbrtment of fancy do.
IO Coloured Beavers, With a great variety of elegant and
' fafhionable Trimrnings
youths tflack and Drab-coloured do.
" Children*rfaacy do
cfer AH kinds of Silk, Silk & Cotton, Cotton & Thread HOSE
• Knit, coloured Pantaloons
r ' a * Do. Drawers
ores Do. lirecches Patterns
Silk Gloves
" Knotted, coloured do. Cotton
gant A quantity of Mending Cotton, for ted colours.
tift T^lC Hals tbc ncweft falhion.
' June 27. COIm
•eral —— — ■ — —
Washington Canal Lottery,
no. 1.
'• XT/-HEREAS the State of Maryland has authorised
— VV the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the ptirpofe of cutting
a Canal through the City of VFaihington, from the I'o
:ven tomacto theEaflern Branch Haruour.
per The following is ;he SCHEME of No. I.
iz. Viz .1 Prize of ao.ooo dollars, 10,000
080 1 ditto 10, coo 10,000
000 7 last drawn")
500 Tickets, each f 5,000 35,000
oco '6 ditto 1,000 6,000
000 to ditto 400 4,000
95° ditto 100 a.ooo
°°o 55 ditto J0 a, 75 0
000 5750 ditto iz <9,008
000 ToTje railed fer the Canal, »6,ajo
4JO 5850 Prizes, 175,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize."
450 I7joo Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
lilh- 0* The Commiflioners have token the Securities re
?at- quired by the aforefaid a& lot tjie pundual payment of
the the prizes.
icm The drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
afed delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timely
kets notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded ic fu months after ths
will drawing is fmifhed, {hall be confidercd as relinquifbed for
izes the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
64 (Signedj NOTLEY YOUNG, °
lck " DANIEL CARROLL, ofl>.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
ers " THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
9 City if Walhingtou, Feb. xj.i, JA mi »■ njni'm—i j .'m.i i .u-ggrrw.-Bwiw uuu» ussegQ
THE LAY PREACHEiI.
" 1 hefqjhi/in if th'ti wcrtd fijfcth a v.'ay."
As 1 am only a Lay Preacher, it mud not be ex
peCted that I (hould always exhibit that accuracy
of sermonizing, which tharaCterises the fettled paf
\ tor. But having observed in the course of along
and regular attendance on public woriliip, that Di
vines are in the habit of dividing their matter, and
of adjourning sometimes the morning exhortations
till after dinner, 1 thought it expedient, when I se
leCted the fruitful theme of last week' 9 Qieditation,
to reserve pa" of its topics till now. For', during
the proeefs of critically examining my TubjeCt in all
lights, 1 found that fafiiion regulated speculation no
less than practice,and that opiiions, as wII as dreff
tt, had their times and seasons. As we are told by
a profound reafoncr, that ss tjierc is bu: one fun in
the natural, f > there can be but one truth in the in
tellectual world ; sn abdiaCt me*aphyfician, in his
cell, would suppose by this time, that one
truth was discovered, and hence necefTarily induc
ed uniformity of thinking. But this is a mere re
verie of a novice in the history of man. In theo
logy, in the healing art, in politics, in the fine arts,
and in polite literature, in whatever interrd*, in
whatever amuses our fpecirs, perpetual vicissitudes
occur, and what is supposed to be fettled by one par
ty at one time, is unhinged by different theories at
tnother.
In the infancy of the colony "it Plymouth, and
at the creCtion of the Saybrook platform, our emi
grant forefathers, rejected with loathing the fat lux
ury o! Luther, and ilarved themfclves on the mean
fare of Calvin. They were doubtful even of fc-rip
tural truth, if it had ifTued from the Clarendon
press, and could not read the fermoir on the mount
to edifisation, unlrfj imprinted in a bible at Gene
va. Willard's body of divinity was their law and
testimony, and rcpiobate was that sinner who would
adventure 'o read and practice a more gentle and
generous fyflem. But such heavy and clanking
fetters of the mind, were too iikfome to be long
worn patiently hy fretful sceptics; and infant Ca
tholicism in its cradle at'length ventured innovation.
Good works were sometimes afTociated with impli
cit faith, and the piety of our piimitive chridians
was not always horror If ruck at the union. In pro
eefs of time the reign of rigor declined, and now it
may be said the high prerngative of fuperltition has
become as nugatory as kingly power in France.
For, a new dictator in divinity, who knew not Cal
vin, arose, and Chauncy confiderfng brimdone. Kb a
Scotifh or an old wive's fable, pro laimed salvation
to all men, and infilled that a profligate ftiould not
be eternally finked for his fin«» Hume and Boling
broke, with elegance and elaboration, but with the
darkelf fophiilry, aivl Bndangfr, an audacious
Frenchman, in his " Chrilfianiry unveiled,' have
presumptuously attempted tofip the chuMian'sfor
trefs, and now, to represent the son of Mary as a
mere man, and now, as an impostor. These wri
tings have induced flimfy opinions, called, from
their nature, Deiflical, to predominate, and theit
profeffori, far from confnliint; the editions either of
England or Geneva, will inspeCt no bible. Per
haps the accurate reader will pronounce my enu
meration incomplete, unlcfs I notice that second e
dition of Tom Thumb's folio, called, " The Age !
0 of Reason." But as this, in mechanics' phrale
i» but a bungling vamp of obsolete infidelity, writ-; '
ten by a drunken author, rarely quoted, except by j !
th« lowed vulgar, and then in thelifping accents of
intoxication ; I will not condtfcend to an jnalyfis, '
but terminate this head of my difeouife with the '
warmed wilhes, that, in spite of jaring opinions, 1
gospel charity and benevolence may be everludingly
Lfhiouable, and that men will not expeCt a more ex.
cellent mode from the new fanghd loos.is of Paine
and of Paris.
Physic ha» experienced more revolutions than Po- '
land, or even France, since the Capets are no more.
Boerhaave has prescribed at Leydeß, what Brown '
would rejett at Edinburgh. Gout mull be pam- '
pered according to one phyfrcran, and Itarvedby a- '
rother. The small pox, like Sancho Pai za, is j
sometimes blai keted into fubmiUion,and f«>metime»
every wind mud be uivoked to blow the infeCtion
,away. Dr. Cheyn# infills that his patients shall V
quaff a perpetual bowl of milk, while a more jolly '
physician direCts as perpetual and much tudHier
draughts. Le Sage's Sangrado drained eveiy vein, <
and now every vein mud be inflated like a bladder, j"
Cullen departed from B-jerhaave, Brown has rx- f
posed and abjured the hercfy of Cullen, and proba
b!y by this time some European projector, lias %
started a new theory to the uiter destruction of the
old.
A Logician, considering the two fubjeCls as c
-qually variable, would infallibly claf< weather ccicks
and politic* togi-ther. We behold vad esipires
sometimes governed by a solitary woman and pet- 1
ty dates headed by a mob of rulers. Kings, once
ranked with Gods, arc suddenly and capnciouflv C
degraded among felons. Government, as a ncr- f,
vous writer cxprefTes it, is sometimes scandalously t
relaxed, and then violently llretctied beyond its ~
tone. The Corinthian capital of society! babori- i,
oufly ere&ed by ari'.tocraucal artills, 13 proltrated f
by papular fury in an hour. In our own country, c
political modes are perpetually fluctuating. Prior a
to the formation of French fiiendfhip, that people, j
.their religion, and their politics, wete equally de- t
tested. The pope was Antichrilt, the French king f
his high Stewaid, the government of France was f
the archetype of Tuikifli defpotiim, and the nation
viewed as a motley collection of coxcombs and
. {laves. Mark the indant operation of a fi.igle de- <j
feat on the whole political sense of America ! A c
c»ptu."«d Burgoytie could met?moiph.)fe an arbitra p
ry Lewis into the friend, the patron of republicans, p
But the love towards Lewis soon waxed cold, and «
J{arat has bis proselytes here ag well as at Paris- t
; Very suddenly have mod of our political sash- c
i'-ns pail away. Britain has been called a mother, n
i bag, a fiP.er, ot a fiend. Our rulers are perpet- a
jjally wrangling conctrriing the garb of government t
Some from Geneva or Virginia, affed the broad o
ntantle of republicanism which cover* a multitude
if fins. Others prefer French mannf<Cture, aud' d
•iif the Paris cut. A few, perhaps, wish to import ji
'.natetiaib from England, but there ij a good, warm, c
veil made, easy gaiment, made to fit any one, cal- ir
L led which the Liy Preachfr actually
prefers to his canonicals,and pr- jrs may be condair:-
ly worn, and an unchangeable made.
y For tht Gazette or the IJnited States.
i? Mr. FennO,
* IF we do not suppose a certain class of News
paper writers, to be paid, to calumniate the Ptefi
s dent and government of the United States—it will
be difficult to chfcover any other adequate ciufe
' for tfcrir ceafclefn and laboured drains of detraction,
"j The thunder that alarms is not htard every day ;
nor is Etna always difgotgiiig- its deSruCtive lava
on the neighbouring fields : Not so a certain pa- j
per, which js daily in labour with fume portentous i
' monder, and ever vamitting forth -torrents of defa- j
1 mation agsiinft the mo(l spotless characters.
What is to be the ifTue of such inordinate and
everlalling abuse i Is it calculated to invite gooj
men to serve the public, or to throw the manage
ment of our concerns into the hands of the present
-calumniator*. The Athepians it is true—revered
calumny and ereCted a statue to her honor ;do these
' writers or rather their employers cxpeCt, that the
fame causes operating here, will produce the fame
' cffeCti as at Athens ? And is the .Republic of the
United States to be destroyed, in order that they
may dine ?
I According to them, tliye is no fonn Vfs m Go
vernment—all is rotten to the core ! Even the
man whose measures and politics, will draw forth
the praiiesof remoted posterity ; and whose con
duct patriotilm will fcrve as a fliriiulus and
contralt to all fucceedirig pfefidents, is 10 lonrer
fit to be trailed with power ; He it feem6 ought
loriy since, to have retired to the (hade, and yielded
up the tcITcI of (late to fo\ne more fkilful pilot.
According to them, every aft of his admini'tra
tion is a blut upon his character, or a dab to the
constitution. To take advice or allc the opinion of
the principal officers of the executive department} '
in critical or diin ult cases, is a crime ngainlt the j
Constitution, altho' these functionaries are enjoined 1
by tbat.mllrument, to give to the President as of- !
ten as required, evety information relative to their
departments.
What oKjeCts come under the cognizance of these
j departments ; do they not (evcrally and conjointly I
encircle and embrace the whole liiterelts of the
United States ? How then can any thing bear up
on the United States, either fiom abroad or at
hone, which docs not direCtly or indirectly totU'li
upon objects relative to their dpUes ? And who so '
proper to an opinion upon points, that assist
the general intereH of the Union, as men who fee
over their whole extent at one glance, a d who from
their situation ought to pofllfs the molt correCt,
and minute know'ege of whatever in its
hearings or dependencies may advance or ictard
their growth and prosperity ? Are men possessing
such valions information, not to beconfulted ?
According to the fame writers—the virtues
whi h a whole people (even the people of the whole
world) believed to relide in the bosom of Wafh
ingt6n—aie all rxtinit. They afTerr, that having
forfeited all title to candor and honed) —he ought
to be infill ed in News papers and reviled in Legis
lative speeches—they would belideo, wilh it to be
confideitd a Republican duty, to represent the
man, (to whom a whole people are indebted, for a
life of laborious awd important 'fcrviccs] in every
degraded form, which calumny can paint, and to
defer ibe him in daily Philippics, hy every Epithet
which they can steal or borrow—from the vocabu
lary of Billingsgate.
With such men abuse is holy—Calttmny is half—
In furred ion is holy—by such men orgies are held,
and clubs i ilituted, and books written to difleini
nate -the judify the other. /
Tell rrie, ye men of forecaft and reflexion ! Do
these things angur well to the Republic ? Are thry
not fyir ptoms which prognosticate some terrible
disaster in the political world ? Have they not al
ways been the harbingers of the final cataftroohe of
Republics ?
Tell me a'fo, yemen of forecaft and reflection ;
who after Wathingtmr will walte the powers of his
mind, and wear out .1* fpringsof his health, his ca
pacities for the enjoyment of domedic..eafe a»d so
cial happuufs, j,, t b e J' erv ,* ce D f countr y >
Should that country become-indifferent to the ob
loquy he lus fuftairted, and the mild American fuf.
fer a datue to Calumny, to be er«&ed in every
village. 1
MONITOR. .
Mount-Hope, 24th July, 1796.- <
From the Edenton Gazette. [
To the Citizens of the State of North Carolina. j
Whereas there have lately appeared in the State '
Gr.zette, preferments from the grand juries for J
■ everal counties in the diliriit of Edenton, wherein
they present us, the people called Quakers, and OIU r
abettors, " as the authors of the common mifchiVf c
in this quarter which preferments-, though they \
dre.led in the language of ax artful orator, yet
contain, as appears to us, futidry unjull reflections, x
abfurdit.es, and exaggerations : Therefore we think J
it expedient (for the lake of f.me, who, f«r want
oi better information may be led into error, by c
such mifreptefentations) in mecknef, to express our t
lentiments touching the charges thus exhibited a- a
gamti ill. t
Fir'l, they present. » That the country is re- {
uuced to a inuation of great peril and danger, in
confluence of proceedings of the society of the "i
people called On .kcrs—that the idea of emanei i
pat,on among fbve» is publicly held out to them >
and encouraged by th« conduct of the Quakers J S
that the minds of the slaves are not only wrea'tlv c
corrupted and alienated from the fervice'of , heir J
millers, in confluence of said conduct, but run- 1
a ways are protected, harbored and encouraged by a
!>f diicoveiy »" re LOmmi '" ed wi,hout » pofSbility I
If those counties are reduced, as is fa.d, to great 1
danger we arc confcions the cause thereof cannot '
jullly be 1 pap a led to our conduct ref f ,efti„ K eman- 1
c.pation ; for ifan tffed he eviJ, ,h c caufc prod(|c .
mg that cffeCt mutt Lkcvwfe be evil; bu: whai we, a
f as a religious society, hive done therein, we are ful
ly prrfirHtc! proceeded from motives truly good,
and coofn'leot with thr nature and spirit of the gnf.
• pel, which breathes peace on enth, and goad will
t»> men, and is never piodu&ive of corruption, dif
ort'er, or evil, in the cre-.ti®n"; neither doth this
beneficent spirit ever inflignte any man to com
mit a criminal adh as the filing his neighbour's
house. All fucli are works of darkness, and pro
ceed from that spirit who is she a'uthor of confofioh,
' and an adterfary to eqnity, love ind harmony.—
; And we are apprehensive that the emancipation of
the slaves is not inconiiftent wit.li a declaration of
the general Congrcfs, which is in these words .
1 " We hold these rn;tliß to be felf-evident, that all |
men arc created rq:i:t!, that they are endowed by
their creator with certain unalienable riglvs, that
among thef.- are life,liberty,and the putfuit of hap
piuefs, and to secure rights governments aie
inllituted among men," 3cr.
Fuither it is fa:d, " The grand jury are so per
fectly sensible of the infatuated" enthnliafm of the !
Quakers, as to partial and general emancipation, !
that they fee a present alarm among the minds ot
the peoph, and fore fee a profpeit of immediate j
dasger ta impend, by the influence and dc/igning j
attempts of the Quakers to this pilrpofe, tvhicn,un
lef» prevented in due time, mnft'burlt with d-lliuc
tion around the citixens of the Hate." Strange
indeed ! at this day, when th-. humane spirit of li
berty hath so greatly use's among the peo- j
pic tinder the federal government, that any of the I
citizens within the union (hould luffer themselves to I
be so far mifl d, as publicly to lligicatize it with i
the opprobrious appellation of " infatuated enthu-j
fialm.
As to general emancipation, if they fugged that
we endeavor to obtsin a law to compel any to eman
cipptetheir flavts, we deny it. What we have re
qi)efted in our petitions to the general aflemblv re
lative ta the matter, hath been only to this effecf
j viz. That those who are confcieutiotifly scrupulous
of keeping their fellow creatures in a state of slavery,
i wight have thepsniU-ge of emancipating them,and
I that the perftfns so liberated might be protected by
law. It is well known that the le'gillatiirc of this
j ilate have frequently granted what is called partial
I emancipations ; why then fhon'.d re be cenfnred
| for ourfen:ime»t in that refpeft ?
Tou. hing the alarm, which th - f •.y they fee,and
the profpedt of impending da r, &c. If any
j fu..h profpedls are viliblf, we have reason to believe
that those things arise not from our influence ; and
we are clear of any malevolent design to thi3 pur
pose, t"hat might give jull creation for such an a
larm.
They furthr advance, " The grand jury rcfleft
ir>g upon the miserable havoc and which
have lately taken plaje in the Well Indies in confe
rence of emancipation." To this we may fay,
we do not conceive, that emancipation, proceeding
purely from reliffotiß motives bath been the original
eaufe of maflacres either in the Weft Indies, or
elfewheie, as may be obvious from an impartial in
formal ion. As to the other circumftanees which
they mention, inducing them to present us and our
abettors, these appear to us to'be futile, and with 1
otn jiift grounds, and we doubt not, but upon an
accurate scrutiny will so appear to every unprejudi
cate reader. I
Lastly, "The grand jury present, that fperdy
and resolute menfures ought to be adopted by the
good frnfe and spirit of the people, in order to pre- '
vent that common appeal to arms, in their Own de
fence, which at present appears to be almofi, if not
altogether neceflWy." We hope that people of
good sense, and atffuated by a good spirit will not
ic movtd by the exaggeration tj'f a few individuals,
blinded by prtjudicc, to adopt measures incompati. c
ble with the principles of a free ChrifHan Re'pub- 1
lie ; under which they enjoy their religious liberty, j
and for which favor we ought to render thankful '
acknowledgements, in gratitude to the divine all '
wife Disposer of the hearts of men. f
Given rorth, in behalf of the society of people •'
called Quakers,-from our meeting's c
Handing iommru'.'e in Perquimanicounty, the I
29th day of the ill month, 1796.
Signed i>y order and on behalf of the committee. -
THOMAS JORDAN, Cl'k. f
—i I 3|j| r». 'j
For the Gazette oj the United States.
HISTORICAL NOTICFS
Of the Kingdom .of Sardinia.
(OSSTIkVETi )
During the forme:-part of ihe sixteenth century, the
dukes ot Savoy possessed territories not considerable
either by their populat.on, extent, 01- value. And of t
these the greater part had been conquered by Francis I c
and weie in the poflWVm of the French. The rei?n- 1
nig duke hid been compelled to retire for fafety to the
lining h rtrefi of Nice, where he remained Ihut up
for fevera! years. While his Ibn, the prince of Pied. r
rriont, (trove 10 better his fortune hy fervine as a vo- C
lunttjer in the am,ies»of Spain. The peace or rather "
o-V placed Jiim at length in - s
pofiufiion ot las paternal dominions, and from the F
commencement of the reign of this prince may be ,
principally dated the rile of the fortunes of his house. :.
y gi aduai acquisitions he added to his territories as
well as importance. His fu: cc-ITors, pursuing the fame
ccuric, at length aspired to the regal dignity, and oU- n
tamed it, a little more than half a century ago. v
During the earl) periods of its biflnry, the House t
ot Savoy turnilhes few materials for hifloiy that arcin- ii
terefting to thepielent age, or that 2re of any import- f
ance to our prt lent objeit : a long train of princes are
therefore paiT-d over in fdence : indeed the reign of ,
Charl sis conspicuous on'y for the calamities fuflcied
by his country during its continuance. d
Charles, dukeoi Savov, wa> one of the least j (
and able princes of the line from which he deft-ended, c
Having married, m 1535, Jeatrix of Portugal, fitter g
to the , m per or, :hat yrincels soon acquired, by her 'I
great an absolute ascendancy over him. Hrou'd l
Of her alTinity to the Emperor, or allured bv the mag
nincent promises with which he nattered her ambition, n
(he brought about a union between the Duke and the
Imperial court, extremely inconsistent which tlis situ- f<
ation of his dominions had hiihrrto induced him to ob- it
lerve. Francis I. highly irritated both st this conduct ii
or the Dunel and his having supplied the Con Sable of _
Bourbon with the money which enabled him to levy *
thaf body ot tr oops wh.th ruined the FreVh armv m "
tliefatai battle of Pa via, cauUd him now to feci how
icve. dy Jit could punish the injury.
ihe i-rcach army under the admiral Brioti, poured
t ecccuito the L.-JH i territories, at different places.
[. The counties of Brtfle and li.ig-ey vvcl-c overrun in a
] ( moment. Mod of the towns in tiic diarchy of Savnv
j-_ opened their ga.es at the approach of tfce enemy : the
" few that refilled were eifi'y forced ■ and before the
end of the campaign, the duke law himfelf-dripped
!' all his dominions except the duwh'y of. Piedmont,
is in which there Were net many places in a condition to
i be defended.
s (To be continued.)
Philadelphia,
WEDNESDAY EVENING, Jutr 27.
if The building of the United States Frigate, now
. ! conllruiting in Sotithwark, gqeson rapidly. Some
;l | jjiogiefs has already been made in planking her.
r : —
t Norfnl', July 15.
» COMMUNICATION.
e About 'he time when Rufns King, was ap
pointed Minister from I 1. United States, to Lon
. don, it was boldly advanced by, certain autocratic
: I papers, that Mr. Pinckney, "our late Mir.ilter had
, i solicited his recall :—Although there we're many
t who doubted the truth of the assertion at .that time,
; ' yet it was received with an acquiescence, that made'
r j it p»fs for a fadl.
. I There is good reason however to fwppofe and be.
. I lieve, that Mr. Pinekuey, did not requell to be re
: i called ; from very good authority, there is reason to
.! fay that on the 17th of April last, Mr. Pinckney
. j had no idea of leaving London, yet Mr. King was
: j appoint*! early in May.—The republican oharac
i I ter of Mr. Pinckney, was not calculated to please
: Pitt ; a temporary fufpetifion of his functions by
. ; Jay, laid the foundation for 2 fchcme that none but
his worthy could bring to maturity.
The removal of a minister like Mr. Pinckney, de
minds explanation ; whefi fueh men are dismissed,
we ought to know for what reasons they are remo
ved—lf Mr. Pinekuey lequelitd his recall, it is
cafy to give an extract of a letter containing such
request—again it is said (and the authority will be
given at a proper time) that Mr. Pinckney, did
not expe£l to be displaced on the 17th day of Apiil
last, although hi* fuse'effbr was appointed in the be
ginning of Mav;—John Fenno and N'tah,. the m»-
narchical reptbUc.au, miy cai<p at this article, but
they ~ ;ill find it does not 1 ell upon the sandy foun
dation of " extrafis of letters."
1h the trucjlyle if democratic jeiuitifm, it is infmua
ted in the above article that Mr. Pinclney did not re.
quejl to le recalled. It has been said in this Gazette
that the contrary is true.
The authority for the offer ticn can be cited, if ne.
crjfary. An author t!y tvZich, the Editor is sure, the
Norfolk NKtrs-MCNGB&.nnd letter fabricator, dart not
contradict.
CONFESSION of tSF. AURORA.
In the Gazette of the United States of
last evening the public are roundly affined, that
but very few of the writers in the Aurora, who
have, unawed by the magic-os a founding name,
feminized the public couduft of the Prefidcnt,
have one drop of .American blood in their veins.
The assertion is falfe. The Public are assured, up
on better authority than the Editor of the Ga
zette of the United States can p..ffiblv poi
fefs, that chief of the pieces that bay appeared in
the Aurora upon that luhjeft are from native
Americans.
Neither the Aurora, nor the writers of the Aurora
are m'ntion'd in the Gazette of yejhrday.
There is a Proverb known loni; since,
" Touch a gall'd horse and lie will wince."
Tuesday. July 26.
The enemies of the Conftitntion have never pro
duced a fingle/jSto judify their ablifc 01 the Go
vernment, or their prelenjicns to patri®tifm. The
fnends of our country, its independence nnd con.
ftitution, are charged with the moll flagitiousenor
mities. When fads,are adduced, which prove the
falfehood of tliefe charges, the vocabulary of Eil
lingfgate is ransacked for epithets to lengthen lbs
chiiin of abuse.
Patriots proceed—tho' envy whirl her dings,
I ne Faction ji?ls " tbst fails are flubboni thinjs,"
Look round ; our co intry every wherefupplies
len thoul'and f~t3s to shew bow faction Jkm. •/ 1
Lie on—the Patriots bed 1 evenge (hall be,
10 point out fadts, and tell the truth of thee.
fOR TIIS G AZETTE OF THE UNITED STATUS,
Mr. Fenno,
THE letters relative to the capture of Capt.
St Barbe, exhibit the conduct of PoMer in a light
that muil render him detellable i.i the view of the
civilized .vorld. Potter is not the only uiltance ;
the ptcfent war has developed many such charailer#
—and these are not confincd to one nation 01 ly.
It is the wiih of humanity, that the finger of
scorn and contempt may be pointed at such mon
sters, till shame and re-tnorfe shall banish them from
Society. It appears that a proper abhorrence of
Potter's conduA is entertained by" the officers of
the British army, and that they are determined ta
inten.il themselves against him.
\\ hen this is taken into confederation, in con
nexion wi:h the truly magnanimous condu& obser
ved towards Capt. Hodg(», (who saved a British
transport) not only by the British executive, but by
indivi iuals and corporative bodies of that nation, !
fee no propriety in stigmatizing the whole for a
tranfaftion which we arc sure they mull execrate,
by a puerile ironicifm, in clafling it among " evi
dence 3of Britifli amity"—ln a letter on this fiib- '
jc-a, a hope is expressed, that Potter's infamous
condud " will be a caution to all Americans when
ever they fee an English ship in diflrefs to shun l^r."
This was doutstlefs a flip of the pen—the laws of
humanity are eternally binding, and it ought to be
remembeied are reciprocal.
The contrary fer.timent if adopted, would trans
form mankind to brutes. The magnanimity and
ju.tice of the British Nation will be exhibited on
this occasion—The example of Capt. Hodge, ia
.pledge of the foimer, and every principle of com
mon right will ensure the other.
HUM ANITAS.
she fafb'ton of this -world fiajjefh away.''
Yea, verily, talhieD dotb pass. But the efforts, , " ; t
\
of ;hy ingenuity, thy original style, genuine wit, me, lis
p.-cafe-it# of manner, apt quotation, and pure lim- wnath
u'.i.hy, will not lightly pass away, but continue an
i,<jiio;a'ble monument to the credit of thy country.
A uibute, forced by the intrinsic worth of the tmmm
Sermons of " the Lay Preacher," from, —
' , AN OBSERVER. Fc
RICHMOND, July 20. In t
DEATHS bout I
-On Friday lad, Mr. SAML. J. SYKES, a farms
gentleman of refpeftability, and but a (hort time T 793,
an inhabitant of this city. He left England some ble an
time last fnmmer.
Also—On Monday evening last, iuddenly !! ! Jon
♦ALEXANDER CAMPBELL, Esq. Attorney H<-
lit late Attorney of the United States Sai
•for this dilhift. , Sat
NORFOLK, July 18. A.
This dAy arrived 'he Hoop Shepherded, Captain Isa
Dean, 18 days From St. Bartholomews, who is- Ja<
foims, that the iflanHs of St. Vincent's and Grena- Tii
da were entirely subdued ; that Admiral Harvey, Gi
with a 98 gun (hip, four 74's, large frigate,
with 1200 troops, arrived there on the 27th June,
in 30 days from Europe; they were momently ex
pc£ling a large fleet with 10,000 men. |
lIIIIH 1 l»ilii »I 1 ?•
BY THIS DAY's MAILS. s
BOSTON, July 19.
ExlraS ef a Idler, dated June 18, 1796.
"We have just made the iflaad of.Antigiw, and ot ta
having some hopes of meeting an American vefle.l so 1,1
bound home, as we are running down to Sfc Croix, ttone
1 wi(h to acquaint you as soon as possible oP our pas- dlic «
lage thus far. On- the 27th of May, we met with perfo
a Brig in diilrefs,. which had been upset three days tp°t
before, and carried away her mainmalt, boat, decK, _—
hatches, caboose, foretop-maft, and considerable ot
her rising. The brig's name Venncrne, belonging
to StT Thomas, from N. Carolina, commanded by
John Ofijorn, who, with his crew we took on board, bhg!
The fcas were washing over the b;jgs deck ; and V
I suppose, nothing but the lumber in her hold, pre
vented her from finking. The captain and crew were
7 in-number, which occafipned us togo on allowance 1
of water. On the 14th of we fnet with a that
veflel on fire, burned down to her w;,le ; soon afrer at tl
we came to her (he went down and left a few bales ted,
of cotton floating with parts of the deck on fire. tize
Yours, &c. addi
that
NEW-YORK, July 26. fi( . ej
[Continuation of foreign advices received by the j ern
ihip Brifeis, Capt. Breath, from Bonrdeaux.J j cat ,
Tranjlated for the Daily Ai'yertifcr. • (
PARIS, Bth Prairial, May 27. anc<
It is aflerted that when the Emperor sent from
Vienna to rentfw the hostilities 011 th:.* Rhine, he ( | ie
was ignorant of the recent loffcs fuilained by his j ( j (
army in Italy. On the 2d Praii i=>l his generals no ( ; on
tified to ours the ce(T«tion of the armistice, w'tich k vc
has been granted to Austria, in order to induce ber t>n
to accept a peace no more necefl.iry to her thaN to opj
us. ; Dot
The arch-duke Charles, wishing to conceal from s
his army the entire defeat of that of Italy, caused
the bells to ring, and the te deutn to be lung on
the other bank of the Rhine, as if to celebrate a
viftoty ; but artifice could not long here succeed,
and i feemsthat he has been compelled to conlefs
the reverse ; never-thelefs, he lill endeavored to pal- j n £
liale it by stating the loss but at 4000 men. an( i
Extract of a Letter. wo
From the "Courier du Corps Legiflatif". j iev
27th Floreal, 16.h May. j-
Council of Five Hundred, 26th Floreal, 15th Mjjy. rf(
The Council having received from the Directory j ( j
thitty-fix pieces relative to Drouet, met in a private j.
committee to hear the reading thereof. Two let
ters addrefied to Drouet, from de Saiffe, counter- u[i
signed by Baker, secretary of the French Legation,
art delivered to'the President of the Council. jji
Council of Elders, 26th Floreal, May 15.
After reading of the proces-vubal, a resolution
it read, which puts at the disposal of the minilter
of jultice, a sum of 6,821,649 livres, fixed value,
to betaken out of the fix hundred millions menti-
oned in the law of the 28th Ventofe.
EOURDEAUX, 19th Floreal.
A juflii e of the peace proceeded, day before ye- ■
flerday until 11 o'clock in the evening, in taking
off the fails fiom on board the Danifli (hip L'Eli
f. ..eih-Chn.tene, from Cucanetey. ai
ai
'I. e Comrr.iffary of tl*e Directory of the Com- cl
muni of Poniive, to the Minister of the Police. w
Citizen Minister,
General Hoche appeared in our department and ;
im-nediately madcfeveral chiefs of the Chog r.s fall j
to thegrotr 1 ; air.ongll these is the emigrant Can
t; wbofe death has caused great sens aions. {>
is On the 30th Germinal in the Commnne of a
' '". lerean, wheie the council of the royal army, ,-
inilrad of achofen company of i.ifantry and a ca- r <
- Iryof 460 men, held a fitting. a
• give you an account of it because their delibe- si
rzi 11 is connected with the events that arc to take *
piacc in Paris, and the a&ors are already at their g
•. .... 0
J It is said that there exists in Paris a prince of the t
r.! d, whose name I coulc' not learn. He is at 11
r. «l ead of a party preparing to aft, and whose c
•' iiv is to be generally felt, particularly in those *
p-d ; in infune&ion, with which it is aliened the v
p: i e holds a corrcfpoudcnce. f
ere cxifts also, in the departmeut of Mortena, J
i « vant fameux, thought to be the prince of I
aivnte. He has been ordered to depart, he and '
■ fe : it is to be feared that he will go and join 1
i re jels. i
T it commotion which they wait for with im '
...«<re ij soon to buiti out, and wdl be supported
"■ department, by 4U the efforts of Chouanifm
><ao the emigrants who intend to effect a dcfcent
o , flie weilcin coalts.
- uizen Minister, these warnings are not to be
rallied,-they fpiing from a good source i and the
• h'j'iaQ whu has Uufcd them to be tranfmittcd to
, me, has never yet deceived me. I tvery day fee
what he announces realize !*fclf.
1 Sa'.ut and refpefk.
GOEVIN.
1 Sehoor
For the Gazette of th: lUnitebStatss j
— ' i School
LONGEVITY. | Ship C
In the counties of Buck* and Montgomery a- 1 g rl g (
bout 18 miles from Philadelphia there aie twelve • q
a farms adjoining e?.ch other, which were in the year Schos
e j yQj, owned and occupied by the following vencra- . » j
e ble and tefpedablc citizens. -\
age: in 1793. frejoit age.
! John Irwin 90 years.. 93 ' . v
y Herman Yerkifj 87 90 ScVr
is Sam. Shoemaker 70 73 j
Sam. Irwin 69 72 ]
And. Buflciik 73 7$ ' 1
In Isaac Bellew 74 77 ]
i- Jacob Fry 71 74 B r ; g
a- Tiios. Craven 78 8i
y, Giles Craven 75 1
, Total 7.4 Ship.
K . Average near oo
Vf" Anthony Scoot 94 •
Jacob Gilbert 93 j e „ q(
I. (. Charles Garrison 76
Total 950 j u i
Average near 80 years. -Moh:
Thc« are Jeveral other veif old gentlemen,heads (
nc j of families, in the fame neighbourhood, but as they
f s J do not immediately join estates they arc r.ot ca
[ x> tioned —Few parts of the world however can pro-
a fl duce 12 perfonj residing four fifths of a eent,ury in ou[ |-
; t h perfect harmony within two miles of one central o jj
,ys spot. f or f (
:k, , C;
of ult. !
Meflrs. Willet and O'Connor, e(1 U]
h v Plcafe to putjlifli the following remarks, and o- p rQV
rd, blige, A SUBSCRIBER. w ; t h
nd Williamftiurg, July 8, 1796. BUte ,
re- — cargi
ere From a Correspondent.
Ie« There are Well grounded reasons for expefiing A
1 a that the President of the United States will relign days
rer a t the expiration of the term for which he was elec- Phil;
'!es ted, that is in March next, and that his fellow ci- J
" tizens will bit informed of his determination by an Effti
address, in the couvfe of a few weeks. It is expeftcd fchr.
that he will be solicited to continue longer in of. ca.
(ice, but surely if the President announces his de- fiom
l ' le termination to resign, no hing could be more indcl- 81
icate, or ((t is presumed) more otfenfiye to the feel niola
ings of the President, than to rcqurtt his coutinu- and
ance.in office. In short, it is impofllble that such B
om felicitation* can proceed from the real filends ofr 29,
the honor, peace, and happiness of Wulhington. Si.
s It is possible that there are men so devoted to lac- '1
"° tion and party, w.ho from an apprehension that lone teer
,ct i favorite of their own might not be eleiSed Preli- Uiis
er dent, or to prevent the election of some person of fate
t0 opaolite political fentimcnt* to themselves, would Ji
not hefitatc. to (olicit the Pr^tidcnt to continue in Leii
om his office ; but would nny man who widied welUto Pan
' re<l the fame of the President aflt him to a& a part 65,
on which would liken him to that hypocritical tyrant f,on
c a Anguftus, who constantly made of his plei
;o< '' willies and intentions to resign, yet always had his 1
s minions and tools at hand to fnlicit his continuance fine
f a '" in office ?to those foiicitaiionj he always yielded, ton
and died in the office he had usurped—os such un- vre
worthy motives no friend of Washington can be- Cad
lieve him a£luate<j, and it would an insult to Col
suppose it. If it is the with of that great man to icrs
retire from office, may the bleffingi of his fellow son,
tory citizens follow him, they will not cease to venerate ner.
v . ate hie virtues, though he may cease 10 serve them. Gal
Who the successor of Wiifhington may be, it is met
" ,er " uncertain—different opinions and withes will direst Cat
110n ' diffeient men—such is the nature of a government Lo
like ours, and to suppose that the office can only be Stc
filled by but oce man, is a libel on the constitution
I J '' J " —it is a libel on all republican government. Such for
nl ) * cr an opinion (hould be treated as a degree of folly j
approximating to insanity, because it can only be to
lenti- f U ppy r teJ by a belief that one maa will live forever.
; . — * =- vr «
Philadelphia, July 27. fte
re ye- • 1 th.
iking EVIDENCES of BRITISH AMITY!
.'Eli- Capt. St. Baihe's capture published as three fep- !ca
aratc articles and numbered accordingly. The lull ;
article in Tuesday's paper is No. 93, the fir 11 aiti- J a
Com- cle in Wednetday's is No, 95 —what kind of ariih- si
ce. «netic is this! ' I
,
, ..j Extnrfl of a letter from a Mercantile Jloufe in Li&on ;
;,af m y! . !„
Can- " Wtadfife yon that 1 rapid decline lias taken f c
place in England, in the price of American wheat h
ine of and fl"ur, the former had fallen so low as 6s. per , b
armv, bushel, and the latter to 30a. per barrel, this great : g
a ca . reduction seem. not to be confined to that country b
alone, for in France prices have also given way con f,
lelibe fiderably, in so ranch that fcveral American vessels f
; take with fl6ur, not being able to difpofc of their car- fc
their goes, have proceeded to Falmouth in search of a |
market, and would gladly dispose of the fame at j fc
of the the firil coll, and be content to fink the freight and ; |
is at insurance ; our friends at Falmouth expedl many ,
whose cargoes from America, to give-them a call for ad- t
those vice, and have written to us, to furnilh them by c- t
ed the very Packet, with the (late of our market, for their (
government, being anxious to fend some of them [
jrtena, here. In politics all hopes of a pacification taking j ,
nee of place with France seems to be abandoned, and there
he and is every probability that Europe will experience the |
:d join horroisof a war another campaign, at Paris pirty
feuds begin again to (hew themselves, and indicate
th im another revolution in their Government."
iported ~-
uanifm Exchange on London 731-1 per ioco ds. ,
dcfcent American Wheat ... 620
'Do. Indian Corn - - • 320
Flour .... 8,000 per barrel,
tto be pitch, Tar, Uufin, abundant, flow sale.
ind the New-York or Albany Pipe slave» 96 per thousand.
itlcd to liarrrel do. - 35 pet do.
POUT OF PHILADELPHIA,
»' — "«■«-; — 111 the
July 27. the M>fc
Arrivals. Forty I
Days
1 Schooner Sincerity, Copia, Port-au-Prince, 10 And*
CLFAKEB.
1 Schooner Helena Plutnftiad, Green, . HifpJtniota
I Ship Ceres, Planden, Havanna
" 1 Brig Ctarfja, DuCofto, Hifpanioh Afibe
Courtney, Living (lop, * Not folk.
r Schooner Polly,Ober, St. Andrews
" • ' Rachel, Nefcit, Bolton J" 1 / '
Ttjal, Hand, Alrxancria ufjlTE]
The folk, !«g vessels had arrived at Kindlon, p«nh
j Jim. viz. 1W .XI
Sch'r Prrfcverance, Addington Baltimore June 21
Link Peg Almond do. 19 Bj
Bet fey, IS-»i I Charleston 17
Eliz ibsth, Moors Philadelphia 24 A
Ruby, Whitney Norfolk 22
Brig Kilty, Dillon ' Charleston 22-
Seven Brothers, Heron Philadelphia 2J f/ l^c
, ' Columbia, Moody Alexandria 23 judicial
Bell, Smith N. Carolina 24 ulternat
Ship SnocCfn, Gordon [Philadelphia 2 1 Peunfy;
Dominick Terry ' do. 21 purpolc
The above account was brought by Capt. Dup- Atl
lex of the Ship Old Tom. delphia
■ seventh
Portland, July 18. nine y-
July 15. —Arrived at Pepperelborough, the (hip " in
-Mohawk, 25 day 9 from Martha brae, in Jamaica. —
Off the Havanna, spoke the schooner Hawk, of t h e c
"J Philadelphia, Capt. James Gerrifh, oat of Jamai- towi
it ca 9 days.—Likewise spoke the schooner Lively, Sect
3 " of Wareham (Cape-Cod) Benjamin Gibbs, mailer, prefem
out fix months a whaling, having 170 barrels of
a oil on board, all well bound to the Bahama banks t h e 'ur
for four weeks, and thencc home. circuit
Capt. Retts, of the (loop Randolph, on the 17th en at
ult. after he was four hours out trom Jciemie, pT?T -
ed up the crew of the schooner Brothers, Capt.
°" Brown, of Baltimore, jail as ihe had been struck f ai j"^ o
with lightning. The schooner funk in fifteen mi- to be 1
nutes after Ike had received the stroke. Vessel and rized 1
carifo, confining entirely of coffee, loft. them t
8 * 9..
ng Arrived (hip Magnet, Hodge, Liverpool, 64 in^
days. Spoke the Adriana, from Londonderry for i Ults
c- Philadelphia, with 500 passengers. find ci
ci- July 21.—Schooner Jenny, Miller, Leghorn, eleven
an Effequibo, 23 days. July 11, lat. 29,39, spoke
ed fcht. Vv illiam, 10 days from Norfolk for Jamai- w ; tnel
as- ca. July 17,'lat. 40, 34, spoke a -rig 4 days the an
ie- from Rhade 1 fland for ihe Weft-Indies. tridl ii
el- Seitr. Ranker, Atwood, Petit Guave, Hifpa- clama!
el niola. Left thci.e, capt. Conway, of Baltimore :
iu- «nd capt. Coekrane, of Boston. Spoke no vessels.
ch Brig Nancy, Skinner, Lisbon, 55 days. In long,
"of 29, 5, spoke brig Hope, Toftrup, 30 days from Ap
in. Si. Croix, for Copenhagen.
Ac- The Betsey, .(loop, prize to the French priva
rr.e teer L'Amore, de la Pairi, has, we believe, left men f'
;li- (his port, in conltqueuce of the inlerdiftion of the
of sale nf pi i/ts.
tild July 2 I.—SchoonerThomas, Croix, 13 days. I
in Left there, (hip Rich, of Boston ; and schooner proce
.to Patty, Spafford, of do. July 10, lat. 29, long.
art 65, spoke schooner Phoenix, Robertfon, 21 days t j ie u
nit fiom Portland for Jamaica. The Thomas hascotn- delj>ti
his pitted her voyage Irom Boston, in 51 days. tlcven
his The following vessels have been nlhore at Cadiz, proce
nee since Sept. 20, 1795 : (hip Chafe, Johnson, of Bos x °™
ed, ton ; (loop Pclly, French, from London, for Ha
uti* vre ; brig Affunninfj, Halm, from Hamburg for take
be- Cadiz ; Galliot Maltha, Simpfon ; five English
to Colliers ; three large Enghfll transports ; Two Sif
to ters, L'Eclair, national vessels ; , Hendrick
low son, from Bremen, for Newry } brig Nancy, Skin
ate ner, of Boston ; (hip Jacohus, Boire, of Alu»na ;
Galliot Anna Elizabeth, Newenftead, from Bre
t is men, for France ; (hip Catharine, Denneker, for
reft Cadiz; (hip Falmouth, Foyake, from Shields for _
lent London j (hip Star, Beanick, from St. Übes for
ybe Stockholm.
tion The Diana, Brown, of Boston, left the Downs
inch for Lisbon, May 15. extt
: olly ; The Dolphin, Pavfons, 6 days from Wifcaffet, tiye
ybe to Li vet pool, was spoke in long. 62, 3°- frar
:ver. The Two Friends, 8 days from Norfolk, to Ha- a h
__ vre was spoke in long. 66, 3 0
The Rulhy, Kempton, of Boftop, arrived atAm
fterdam, May 2, bound to St. Petersburg. Also tuf(
i the Camilla, of .do. for do. _ Sea
! The Leopard, Putr.ey, of Balem, was at Jamai- Car
f tf P" ca lately. cc "j
e liill 1 The Ad'ive, Paifons, of Newbury Port, was at
aiti- Jamaica, June 18 Also, the Betsey, Sturgifs, of J
irith- Boston, to fail in 8 days.
PORTLAND, July 18. i
ifcon On the 7th or Bth inft. •»' a Mr. Trueman of W
Boston, was pafftng from Mr. Stacy's, at Wifeaf- j£j
taken where he had put up, to a Mr. Clarke's, where
wheat he was invited to dine, he was suddenly attacl»ed ne
»• P er |by five men in disguise, having their faces blacked, 1,0
great ! & c . One of the foot-pads presenting a gun to his
mntry breast, bade him Hand. They then carried him a
1 con f ev¥ TO ds from the road, into the bushes, and took
vessels from him all the money which he had about him,
r car- being upwatdiof 200 dollars, a silver watch, (hoe : A '
b of a buckles and a pocket book containing ma<iy valua
me at j ble papers. After which, they (tripped him near
lit and ; )y naked, beating and mangling him iii a (hocking
many manner, cutting his ears, &c. They then piopof
or ad- et J niuidering him, or at least doing further violence
Iby e- t 0 his body ; but they forbore. We hear that the
r their fuft'erer knew three of the villains, so as to have
them been able to lwear to them r the further partitulafs
aking we have nut yet learn«d „
J there;
ice the 1 7> „ t
p lr ; v By an Artifl. resident at Mr. Oellers s Hotel,
idicate MI Ni AT U RE LIKENESSES
ARE taken and executed in that elegant anil delicate
ltilc, which is so neeeffary to render a Miniature Pic-
an interirftiug jewel.
He will a strong and indifputalile resem
blance ; and he the liberty to lay before the public
irrel. of thi* place hid molt carneft intentioa to deicrve their pa-
tronage by hia best endeavors to please.
oufand. N. B. Specimcnt are to hefesn.
May la. - 5
iii .■« LJ ijjifcijiJt - --- ' - - JLLL-JLigllJL-g
---juii Arrived
In the orig Betlcy, from jereniie, and for Tr .e bj
the fuhfcriWets. v ~
Forty thousand \Vt. oFvery prime Coh^e
in hogtheadJaftibagi \
) ■ And, in the schooner Hope, flrom lic-u Orlea.vi.
BEEV
, COTTON
HIDES and
LOGWOOD. . -
' A credit *iB he jiven for Not?:.
1 Richard and James Potter.
! *7- .. . , . aF ~
a UNITED STAriiS, ") q
> Pennsvlvajiia linrmcT, J
JN XRE AND, UY TUB AUTHORITY
, OF 1 iili UNITED STATES,
0 By WII LI A M NIVH 0L S,
Murfhil of thi: Pennsylvania Uift'riA, —
4 APROC LAM A T lON.
2 TT THERI£AS tlae Congref» of the 'United States', at
2 . VV the firflfeffip* of the fourthCoiigrefs, to wit, cji
ihe twelfth day of May lad pift, pafl'id an ad, to rcp;-(
' so much of an act, intituled "*n to etlabhOt t,m
: 3 Judicial Courts of the United States", as direSs that the
!4 alternatelelfions ot the Circuit Court for the Dirtrid of
[ | Pennfjlvania, shall be holdch at Yorktowu ; and for other
2, purpoles, in the follow ing words, to wit.
Fourth Cocgrefs of tha United States :
P" At the firll fcfiion, begun and held at the city of Phila
delphia, in the Stat? of Pemifylvaria. on Monday, the
seventh of December, one tboUfand seven hundred and
nine y-five.
• An Act to repeal fomucb of an afl, intituled "an a<st to
eftabliih the judicialcourU of the United States", as di
~ reiti that alternatefcffiohs of the fsid circuit Court !or
the diklriA of Pennfy W..nia 'hall he holdcu at York
ai- town ; and for other pur ; ofes.
ly, Sect. I. BE it cna&ed by the Scnat« and House of Re-
g t prefentatives of the United States of America, in Con
r grefs assembled, That so inuch of &lth feClion of the
act, intitu ed " an act to cftailiih the judicial courts of
the United States", asdircds that alternate fefrions of the
circuit coutt lor the dillrxil of Pcnnfylvania lhall be hold
rth en at Yorktown, be, and the fame is hereby repealed J
aud that all the Cllionsoi the laid circuit court ihail, from
and after the paihng of this aft, be holdeft a: the city of
p • Pliiiadelphia, excepting only, when at any felfion of thi
'ck f d ij court, tlm judges thereof (halloiredt the next itfliun
ni- to be holden at Yorktown , which they are hereby autho
md rized and cmyowered to do, whenever it (hall appear to
them to be neeeffary.
Sect. 11. And be it further cnaited, That all fc-'u pro
cess of the l'iid court, as may have ilfued before the pass
"4 ing of this ait, and all recognizances returnable, and all
for lu ts and other proceedings that were continued to the
said circuit court ior the dillrift of Pennfylvauia, on the
irn eleventh of October next, in Yorktown, ihali now be re
i ' turned, and held continucO, to the fame court, on the
fame day, at Philadelphia. And to Lhe end that suitors,
lai " witnesses, and ail other 6 concerned, may have no:ice of
ays the alteration hereby made, the Maiilial of the said <lii
tridt is hereby required te make the fame known, by pro
pa. claniation, on or b.fbretlie firll day of Augufu next.
' _ Jonathan Dayton,
: Speaker *f the House of P eprefentativcs.
£lS - Samuel Livermqri-,
ng. Prefnlent of the Senate, pro tempore,
om Approved, May the twelfth,
GEiiRGE Washington,
j va _ ■ Pr.cfident of the United StaU-s.
Deposited among the Rolls, in the Office of the Departs
, ment of State,
Timothy Pickering,
Secretary of State.
ays. IDO HEREBY MAKE KNOWN, that all such
>ner procefa of the said court as has, or may be issued, and all
ncr recognizances returnable at Tcrho-wn aforefaid, 011 rhe ch-
J veutb daytf OcMcr next, will be returned to the Circui- of
' a )' s the Umted States, at the City Hall, in the city of Phila
om- delphia, onTuefday, the el,ninth day of OAoker next, at
tlruen o'clock in the forenooa, Ar:d that all huts and other
diz proceedings that were c jntinued to the said court at or.k-
g o r' town, will be held and continued at the said Circuit
tj Court, at Philadelphia, on the fame EU-.trJb day of Ode
,a ber next, of which all persons concerned are desired to
or take notice, and give their attendance thereat.
glifh GIV£N under my hand, at my office, ill the Diflricfc
Sis. of'Pennfylvania, the twenty-seventh day of July,
.• t in the year of our Lord one thousand leven hun-
Y". dred and ninety-fix, and of our Independence the
iwentv-firft.
' WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Ma'fial.
it W!
8 fur A Country Scat to be fold.
JWOS A BOUT seven acres and a half of land near the three '
x\- mile (lone on the road leading to Gray's gardens and
extending witlingentle declivity fromthe said road to the
a " et » river Schuylkill—on which are eredted, a convenient
frame house fuitablefor a tenant, a frame barn andTtabiC,
1 Ha- a large Brick House forty eight,, feet frortt, two ft or its
high, a very elegant piaizafronting the river, the whole
a breadtlvof the house supported with turned pillars, floor
; a??" ed with cedar plank, commandi«g an extensive and pic-
Alio t urefque view of the Middle Bridge. Gray s Gardens, the
Seat of Wm. Hamilton, Esq. the Turnpike ROad and
amai- Canal. The improvements arc all new—and the ground
conveniently divided and inclosed by new cedar fences.
„t For terms apply at No. Ijl Market-street.
V3B 3l _ , 4n¥
I*3, of J"* 17 1L
For Sale,
v-"l— The Schooner
an of Mmij Dispatch,
Wifcaf- "OURTHEN about twelve hundred barrels,
w heic i Ij a (launch, good vessel, two years eld, is
acWed new ly flieathed, and in compleat order to proceed on a
*rl«-c< voyage.—For unr.s apply to
t hi! Jofipb AnthmyV Cc,
him a J a 'r*7- fl_
t hint This Day commenced Landing,
(hoe- At ' itflins wharf, the cargo of the Brig Lucy and Sloop
' , St. Jago, from St. JagodeCuba—confidingof
3 " White avd Brown Box SUGAR.
1 near- MOLASSEB, 0 f an excellent quality.
icking COFFEIT.
jiopof- HIDES and HONEY. Also,
iolenee For Sale or Chstter. ,
l l3 ' l^c The brig ,
0 \ flout,' llrong v«.ffel, will carry a
titulafs boiit laoo barrels and may go t»
- sea with a very small expense.
The above will be fold for calh or approved notes.
Samuel Emery,
tel, No. 64, fouthSecond-flreet.
1S E S July 17, .796- dtf '
delicate T
turePic- To be LET,
A large convenient story Brick House, pleasantly
rC v!r" fixated, on the weft fide of Second-Street, opposite to the
e public now in the occupation -f Henry Clym«r
thelr P a - Efq Apply t. n ,
William Bingham.
S J" 1 / »7<'3*-
Dijirict of Pennsylvania : to wit.
D F it remembered, that on the twentv-fourth day of June,
33 in the twentieth ye>r of the Independence of the United I /">
Elates of America, J">hn Qrmrod, of the laid Di!lri& hath
oepofited in thfi office the title of a book, the right whereof ,
he claims at Proprietor, in the wards following: to wit: ncv
" A short and candid Enquiry into the proofs of Chrift'9
M dirinitv; in which Doftoi Priestley's opinion concerning
'• Chiift is occasionally considered. In a letter'to a friend.
" Rv Charles H Wharton, D. D. and Member of the
Thilofophieal Society of Philadelphia.
M Wliofoever denieth th« Son the fame hath not the Fath- 0
" ex. Let that thevefoie abide in you which ve Have heard
•' from the beginning ;if that which ye have heard from the 'P r
beginning shall remain in you, yc also (hall continue in cs
-4i the'on and in the father. St- John, lftEpift. c. ii. v. 23, un<
" 24." of
in conformity to the aft of the Ccngrefs of the United States vei
intituled 44 An a6l for the encouragemeni of learning, K u fe
aring tn« eopie* of Map*, Charts and Books, to the authors cu j
and proprietor* of fdeh copies, during the times therein vj
mentioned.' SA VfUEL C ALDWELL, cO ,
CJeik of the Dtftrift o( Pcnnfylvai.ia.
.v ■N . . i»4 ww (J C(
Law Book-Store,
No. 313. High Street. _
GEORGE DAVIS begs to inform Kis profeffional
friends, that per the Ceresjuft arrived from Lon
don, he has received the following scarce and valuable
bsoks. Stat* Trials, it vol. in 6 and it vol. Ruff
head's Statutes at large, 16 vol. Woods' InPdtjjtes,
Coke's Entriefc, Raftell's do. Browne's do. Hearnes
pleader, Coke's 2d, 3d, and 4th Institutes, s vol. Roll's
Abridgment, Brooke's do. Bulftrode's Reports, Roll's
do. 1 vol. in i.Fldyers Pr(t.ftor's practice, Clarke's
Admiralty, Rutherford's Institutes, Demo'njry, or the to
Eloquence and Logic of the Bar. Tliefe with !is very
large collection from Dublin now on hand, will enable cii
' him to fupplv an entire library or a fingie book, as
gentlemen may have occasion on their immediate ap
plka'ion. ls
. July 14. ww
Asjheton and 'James Humphreys, th
conve'yancers, Ii
HAVE removed their office to No. 61, Walnut-Areet, J'
next door but two to the corner of Deck-flreet, -
where all INSTRUMENTS IN WRITING are drawn »t *
t moderate charge, with care, accuracy and difyatch.—
They likewise bny and fell Real Estates upon comniif- ,
Hons, and procure Money upon Loan on good security.— ~
The business of an ATTORNEY AT LAW arid NOTA- " h
R.-Y PUBLIC it also tratlfa&ed at the said office as ivfual ,
ky ASSHETON HUMPHREYS. £
N. B. Good Notes diftounted. v(
July 5. eo6w
City cf Washington. rc
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11, £
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE f e
FEDERAL CITY. jo
A magnificent ) aa»ooo dollar,, & 7 aoa
dwelling-house, ) calh 30 ; 000, are ) ' v
1 ditto 15,000 & calk 25,000 40*000 a(
X ditto 15,000 & oafh 15,000 30,000
I ditto iojooo & cash 10,000 10, cob z
X ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,00© t l
I ditto 5,000 & calh 5,000 10,000
I cash prize of 10, coo it
t do. 5,000 each, are» « jo, 000 tl
10 do. 1,000 - • » 10,000 c<
10 do. 500 - - 10,000 g
00 do. 100 - • 10,000 h
1,50 do. 50 * • 10,000 q
400 do. *5 • * io,oo» n
I,®oo do. 10 - *0,000
15,000 do. 10 • • fjo,ooo
Prizes.
53,261 Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollar,, 40,0000, {
N. B. To fivoor those who may take a quantity of
Tickcts, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the L * st drawn
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one :
And approved notes, fecujing payment in either money
er prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be received for
any number not less than 30 tickets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of thepri
vate buildings to be erevfted in the City of Washington— ,
Two beautiful designs are already fel"Aed for the entire
fronts on two of the public squares; from these prawings c
it is proposed to erect two centre and four comer buildings, a
as soon as possible after this lottery is fold, and to convey a
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in I
the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery. |
A nett dedu&ion of five per cent, will be made to defray ,
the oeceffary expenses of printing, &c. and the surplus 1
will be made a part of the fund intended for the Natianal :
University, to be erected within the city of Washington. <
The rawing will commence as soon as the tickets are 1
fold off.—The rkfiney prizes will bepayAlain thirty days (
after it is finifhad ; and ajiy pr zes for whkh fortunate (
slumbers ate not produced within twelve months after the 1
drawing » clofcd, are to be considered as given towards i
the fun., for the University ; it being determined to fettle i
thfi wliole business in a year from the c iding of the draw- ]
inj, and to take up the bonds given as security.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the Prizes, ,
,re held by the Prcfident and two Diredors of the Bank ;
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
mount at the lottery.
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of ;
the late CommiSioners afTffled in the management of the
Hotel Lottery are requeued to undertake this arduous task
a second time on behalf of the public ; a fufficient num
ber of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
friends to a National University and the other federal ob
jects may continue to favor the design.
By accounts received from the different parts of the
Continent as well as from Europie, where the tickets
have been sent for sale, th; public are a flu red that the
drawing will fpeyiily commenae, and that the care and
eautio;i unavoidably ncceffary to insure a fafe disposal of
th* tickets, has rendered the stu<r fufpeqfion indifpcufable.
SAMUEL BLODGHT.
»§, Tickets may be had at the B ink of Cojum'.ia ; of
Jar.its Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter Gilman, Bofcon ;
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wnlls,
Cooper's Ferry.
■ < No. 134.
Diftfift of Pennsylvania, to wit.
Bi. it Remembered that on the 23d day ef May, in the
twentieth year e Independence of the Uni.ed States
of America, Francis ShaLlim, of the said diftrifi hath
dcpofilrd in this office, thetitleof a book, the li.rf t whereof
he claims >s proprietor in the words following V> wit *' THE
DISAPPOINTMENT, 01 THF. FORCE Or CREDULI
TY, a new Comic Opera in three afls, by Andrew Barton,
E 'q. "d edition levifedand correficd with large additions by
the author."
" Enchaining gold ! tha> eofl conspire to blind,
41 Mans' erring iuXgn.ent and misguide thcniind,
• *< In search of thee, the wretched worldling goes,
" Nofdangers ieari, tho' fiends of nighi oppose
In conforiritv lo the aft of the Congress of the United
Sutcs, entitled " An aft for the encouragement of learning,
by fecuringrhe copies ®f maps.lharts and b 'oks to the authors
and proprietors of 'iich copies during the times therein men
tioned- Sam OIL Cai dwell, Clk Dift. Pcnn.
The cieie Opt't th'U h pubtijkti in the eturfc of two or three
lush I. July } 4'
J
■[ To be Sold,
At No. MB, SecoHfi-Sirett, <.'! by frveral of
the apothecaries in this City.
'TR ANSFERS of the right to remove pains and „
I liom fro® the human as secured to D r r - L1 *
PERKINS, hy patent, with inftiumenu 6;id dirc-hoHS ne- A
CcfTary for the u«fttce. This mode of treatment Ufmwf- —
lifr'.y ufeful in relievtuj,' o..in» in the head face, Ice. h, Drca.i,
fide, ft v iarh, bs<k, rhemrmifmt, recto: jp-.it*, «c
---1 Not*'i:fiftaiiitn> the utility ps this patties. Vts not p<e
fumed but there are caf-5 in whicn this aud every other
remedy may. fimetiiiics fall. Abo
June 18, u " Sair
: War-Oifice of the United States,
May 4th, 1796. cloa
THE follo wing Rules', exphfiaDbry of thole pubUihed brii
the 15th Kt'bruarv, 1789, are to beobl'erved by all h»v
I persons entitled to Lands, in pttfyzHC* of rcfotae* «f
Congress.
s Every certiiicate of the acknowledgment of a deed or
power of attorney, either before a notary public or other
* magiflrate, mult, in adtlit-ion to what is lifnil, fee forth
that the person making ch acknowledgment is known to r-g
---the notary or other ma®illrate ; tor which purpofc words J
of the .following import mtiH be iaferted in the certificate.
" And IJo moreover certify that the faia A B making '
this acknowledgment has bctfn for , personally
known to me." ,
If the notary or other majiftrite has rcafon to believe j/f
that he is th: nerfon he rep refems himfelf to be, he wil ' .
also certify it. £" 1
Andifthe proof be made by a witnefsurwitnelT-sih- or
.theymuil swear to some general ftateof their knowledge ol
htm, wind; matter mull be set forth in the certificate j .and
j' the notary public, or other raagiflrate, before whom tj=
' acknowledgment is made, muit also set forth that the wit
ne.scr wirneffeshas or h&VG been for upwards 01
pcrtcrially known te him.
If a jultice of the peace is employed, the clerk of the
court of the corporation or county rnult ccrtify that fucii
r is a jntlice 01 the peace of the county or corpora- .
tion as the cai'e may be, and that lull faith is due tu hi«
, aSsasfuda. JAMJSS M'HiSNRY,
-Secretary of War.
c Mav 11. xanovn P ( ,
! George Dobson, j
s TIEGS leave to inform the Storv-Kcepjß* in Town and j
'f 13 Country, that he has removed from Market-Street to
N°- 25, south Third-street,
where he is opening a Large and Elegant Affortmsnt of the
undermentioned articlei—viz.
Superfine London Cloths and Kwfeymeres,
s Yorklhire second Do. Do.
fclailic do. doj
Mix'd and Blue Coatings
c Flapnclls, &c.
Mancheflcr Printed Callicocs, -
c London Chime ditto,
1- Blue and ditto Furniture*! ,
f- India ditto,
Lonft Cloths, CofTaesf Bafraa, Ba'tillasA Coojcvrem*!
re 4-4 9-8 5-4 <5c 6-4 Superfine India Book »
- 4-4 arid 9-8 India Book. Handkerchief*, .f'
[. 4 4 and 9.8 Scotch ditto, 1
II . 4 4 &6-4 nlaindo Muflini,
4-4 & 6-4 Uritifh Jaconets, . n
> 6-4 Bririfh Checks and Stripes, '
[f 4;4 l fi din do. do, do. * rc
j 4-4 ditto Chilloes, Madras Handkerchiefs, qc
A iarge afToitment of figur'd and plain Muflinei*! . l f
| Quillings, Dimities, and Striped Nankeens, '
r Fancy VVaillcoatin^s,
Gingham's ot the Srti Quality, fubjeft to Drawback*
ld India Nankeens, P ri
Men's White aud coloured Silk (lockings. ' 6
td May 9 weolt Hu
[t For Sale, ■>
of A Valuable Grift and Saw Mill,
TN New Jerfcy, near the Forks of Little Egg-Harbour, pe;
' A The Grill Mill is fixtyby feet, two water wheels, —
1 and calculated for four run of Stones, with screen, fans
and boulting-clorhs,' See. The Saw-Mill has Lwofaws,and
: ir cabbie ofcuttingfiveto 6 100 thoufandfeet of Boards J>er q
ia * year. A valuable piece ef Cedar Swamp, within a mile
aoid a half of the Mill, and within three quarters of a mile
of a Landing. The Lumbar, &c. oaay.be takea by water
fVom the mill tail.
, ALSO FOR SALE,
Several Valuable Tradts of Land,
In Pennsylvania, for all of which payment will be rectiv- t(-
ed in the notes of Meffirs Morris and Nicholfon, or in tl
Cash. ai
et For further information apply to the Printer. w
an May 17. law
>nt ; r — u.
'rft Samuel llichardet, £
"I O ESPECTFULLY it.form. the Gentlfmen
',1 * v Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
i a * TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEE HOUSE in the
city of Philafk'l;. hiai ci
The Subscription Room will be furniihed with all the
tl j daily papers published in Philadelphia, N:w-York, Bof
)ry ton, Baltimore, tojether with those of the principal com- -
; u _ mercial' citi«%of Europe—They will be regularly filed
and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
_ er Tea, Coffte, Soupes, JeJlics, Ice Cctanis, and a variety
u j- e of Frcnch Liquor;'; together With the usual refrelhmeuts,
cut w '" ar a " times b.- procured at the bar.
ont Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with 0
t |j e the choicest of Wines, Spirituous I.iquor9, and the ino
led approved Malt Liquoi's from London and other breweries. 3
c |,_ The Larder will befupplied with the prime and earliest C
.j u pro Judions of tho Scafon. 1
in< ) Large and small Farties, or single Gentlemen, may be •
are accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
ine ' lours mo convenient to thsmXelves—a cold Collation is
re- rt £ ulal! y for conveniency, the Billof Fare to be had
at the bar.
p> The I.odging Rooms will be completely furniihed, and
•ear utmolt attention paid to cic.mlinefs, and every other c
requisite. t
S iMtiEi RicHAftDET will be happy to receive, and
— execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gratitlide for their favours, he pledges
himfelf that nothing on hia part ihali be wanting topre
ferve that patronage With which he hat been so diftinguith
ingly .'icnored. ' (
Philadelphia, April ig. J
JOHN PAUL JONES.
INFORMATION is hereby given, that the late John
Paul J opes was a proprietor of fire (hares (amount
ing to about 5867 icre»)in atraA ofland purchased by
, ju the Ohio C ompany, in the territory of the United States
of America, north-well of the river Ohio ; and that his
j." heirs, or legal representative, on application to the direc-
tors of said company, at Marietta in the territory afore
' said, Will receive a deed of the said fWe shares, or rights
of land.
The application maybe made personally or by an agent,
but proper documents mull be produced to prove the
claimant or claimants tke legal heirs or representative of
the said Jones.
N.B. Asit istiot known in what country the person
iKk- or persons interested reside, it will be an ail of benevolence
in evsry Printer in America and Europe, who {ball infer?
this advertifem'ent in his paper.
In behalf o« the director, of the Ohio Company,
ROI'US PUTNAM.
It Mmctta, May [June 4 ] 32W9W
' * \
For Sale,
r A Few Cafkt *>• Virft Quality
I N O l G O.
Enquire a-t No. 71, South Water ttreec.
May z tht ftf
• REWARD.
Ran away from the fttbfcribur living near Church
Hill.Qu-en 5 nns County iii the State of Mar jlasilf
about the firlt of January l»ft, a Hack negro
Sam, about thirty year# of age, f feet i> or 9 indies high,
has a crooked finger on one hand, and one leg and foot
fraaller than the other, fo:nc\vh»t his
cloathing unknown. Any person who will, fcxtire ®r
i bring said fellow home,fo that 1 may get him agiin (hail
1 have the above reward with reafdnable charges.
f WILLIAM JACOBS.
June 4. *Taw2m,
[ Mr. FRANCIS,
h [Of the Nfio 'Thentrt}
" '"pAKES this opportunity of returning thanks to his
| s J. scholars and to the public, Mr. Francis intends,
on his return from Maryland, to open a public 40a
-5 demy for dancing, upon a plan entirely new. He
y flatters himfelf that his attention to his pupil# hi
c therto renders any promises of conducing his future
;j schemes on the molt liheral and ltriiTtei'l terms, of pro
priety, tttfilly unneceflary.
, r A r . R. Private tuition as usual.
Flans oithe city otPhiladelphia,
: Including the Northern Liberties and diftriA of
" Southwap. k ;
Puhlifhed, and fold by
BENJAMIN DAVIES,
f i'lo. 68, High street,
41 (Price one dollar.)
!' THIS plan i» iS inches square, and has been en
" grived by one of the firft artists In the city, from a late
and accurate fur*ey. Purchasers are entitled to a pam
phlet u ith each plan, giving " some account of the
city, its population, trade, government, &c.
July 19 til & f tf_
~PROPO S A L S
a ran carrying thi
Mails of the United States,
JC On the following routes, wiil be received by the PostmasTer
at Savannah, until the firft day of September next;
1. FromSavaniiuu by Suubuiy to Newport Bridge, onct a
week.
Receive the Mail at Savannah every Saturday bv 9 A M, ar
rive at Sunbury by 6 P M, and at Newporcßridge on Surr
<Jay by 10 AM. Returning, Leave Newport Bridge on Sun
day bv 3 P M. a»d arrive at Suubupy in the evening, «md at
Savannah on Monday by 6 P M.
2. From Newport Hridgeby Darien and Brunfwick. to Sf.
once in two weeks.
Receive the Mail at Newport Bridge every other Sunday
$oon, aod arrive at St. Mary'* the next Wednd'dav by 5 P
ftcturning. Leave St. Mary's the next da/, by 8 \
M,and arrive a 1 Newport Bridge the,next Sunday by 10. A
Note 1. If either of the routes are titer edby law, during the cot*
nuance »f the Contractsthe Contractor is toobfeye ftch alterations
in carrying the nail, and his pa) is to be thcreajei or dimikrfhed, in
proportion to the difl&nct encreafed or diminipied by, fuck alteration.
Note 2. Ike Contrails are to be in operation on the firfi. day. of
DM* next, andto continue for few years until the 30 tk Septem
ber , 1800, vnclu/iz.c.
Note 3 TkcPojl Mafler General may after the times oj arrival*
and departure at any time during the continuance of the Contra&s, he
previously /Updating an adequate com penfation for any extra extenfe
that ifr:y be occahoned thereby.
Note 4. Fifteen minutes shall be allowed fbr opening anddofing
thi mail at all offices where no particular time is f-pecifica,
Notr 5. For evtry hour's delay funavoidable accidents excepted)
in arriving after ibed-in. any.contrail. the cerntr/tßor
[ball forfeit one dollar And if the delay continue unil tie depart
ure of any depending mail, whereby the math de[lined for fuok do*
ir. pending mail shall lufeatrip, the contru&or shall forfeit ten dullon
ds, —to be deducted from his pay,
ns JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
n<l Poll-Master General.
> .'j r General Post Ornci,
|J e Philadelphia, lunr 28. :7i)6. iaw6w
tcr Urbanna Mill Seats ,
SITUATE in Cceil county, Maryland, en t}iebanks©
the river Sufquehanna, about one mile above tide wa
ter, and commanding tfye water of that important river,
iv- the channelconducUng th» trade of which ccmes so near
in the Mill Seats as to make it convenient to I'peak the boats;
and Mills may be so fituatedas to receive them ai«ng their
walls, and bv water- lifts take in their cargoes.
There is a power fuflicient for many and any kind of
ufeful Water Works, and so much may bejufily said in
commendation of this Scite as would b« inconvenient to
insert in a newspaper publication.
,en Those who may delire to be concerned, willprohablj
py find themfclves.weU pleased on viewing the situation.
the Leases for any term of years may be obtained on app]i»
cation to the fubferib'er, living on thepremifes.
the . CLEMENT HOLLY DAY.
lof- April 19. law 3 m
led Lottery aTn3^r6kers _ Qffice r —^
et y N Q 64 Soull) Second street,
i ltS) P'ICKF.TS in the Canal Lottery No. 11, *re now rea
-1 dj- for sale, a Check Book kept for the examination
i t h of Tickctf, and Prizes paid, without dcdu&ion.
10 ft The Subferiber folicitt the application of the Public or
ies. an 7o' his friends who wist to purch fe or fell Bank Stock,
ieft Certificates, Bills of Exchange, or Notes, Houses, Lands,
Lo'ts or M-.rchandiic of any ki id, ar to obtain Money
be ,n deposit of property.
.« WILLIAM BLACKBURN,
hud I' a,t '*S ent f or 'hr Canal Lottery Company
Share* an , Tickets in the late Newport Lc.if
ant j Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery examined
her complete lift of all the prizes' having been recei
tliisefflce.
and Junie 6. wit
Iges FOR SALE.
' re ~ A FOUNT of BREVIER, half worn j about fourl '•
tilh- l \ dred weight. Enquire at the Office ef the Gar :(
of the United States, No. 110 Chefnut-ftreet. 5
s —_JL .
— JOSEPH COOKE,
GOLDSMITH & JEWELLER,
John The corn " of Market and Third-streets, Philadelp
unt " M° ST rer P eafull r informs his friends and thepu .i.
1 by that he has received, per the last arrivals, a.c
tates p' et ? a "d general aSbrtmer/t of almpli
his Every Article in his Line;
! rec " Immediately from the manufailures of London,
°f e mingham, and Sheffield, all of which are of the ne
S - ta falhion, and will be fold, wholesale and retail, on the.
eil terms, and the Notes of Mr. Robert Morris, and
Sent, JohnNicholfon received in payment at their current vr
thl i N. B. The upper part of the House in which he 1
eot lives to be let, furuifhed or unfurnlfhed. la"
:rfon
lence
PRINTED BY JOHN FEN NO.
—No. 119—
CHESKUT-STKEIT.
»w I {Priac Eight Dollars per