. . . y - .. ~ • ;'V- g \ ' . I
#afette of the tUttttetsJltateg, & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
hvMBER 1267.] FRID AT EVENING, SEPTEMBER 30, 1796. ifoiuiir X.
jv|Tp. For Cork,
Mary Ann,
Francis Stuart, master : i> a ftreng, good
■ J3L?- "*-<■ {hip, fails fact, and has good accommo
dations for paflfengers. Great fart of her cargo.being
ready, (he will fail in 10 days. For freight or passage
apply to the Captain on board, at Mr. ShortalPs wharf,
Or to Shiart Id Barr.
Sept. M Noi »oo,"South front-ftreet.
For Sale,
jif|§s> IN D U S°T RY,
Burthen about 700 bbla. a good vef
.- fel, and will be ready to take in a car
go in two or three days. Also,
FOR SALE,
A few hhds. ANTIGUA RUM, received by
said sloop, and now'landing at Morton's wharf. Apply to
THOMAS GREEVES,
Se»t. 14. d6t. N°-73i Walnut-street.
—fc — f —"sl —*—
The, Brig DIANA,
Lying at Chefnut-ftreet wharf; a flout
well built velfel, one hnndrcd & fifty-eight ton»burthen j
well found, and but four years old. Apply to
Jofepb Anthony iff Co.
Sept. z6. d 6
i? or Charter,
The Ship Dominick Terry,
$4 jy® T»c*>b De Hart, master: an excellent
vessel, of about 3000 barrels burthen.
r . Jcffe fcf Re hurt Wain,
September 2T. d
For Charter,
?*> The Danish Barque Beneventura,
Samuel Stub, master,
good vessel, of about two hundred
tons burthen. JESSE & ROBERT WALN.
Sept. 17. dtf
FOR LONDON,
The capital (hip CERES,
; Y To - fail f°on : —For freight or passage
to DAVY, ROBERTS 3c Co. or
'John Vaughan,
September 10. Front-flreet.
FOR SALE,
The {hip STAR*
<T7m£]yfi\4 JOHN Vanneman, flatter,
T YING at Walnut-ftrset wharf, Philadel-
I 1 phia built, of live oak and cedar, will
carry about 31C0 barrels, is two years old, and in com
plea; order to receive a cargo—For terms apply to
THOS. & JOHN KETLAND.
Who have also for sale said vessels cargo —confiding of—
Wine and-Porter bottles,
Winduw Glass, 6byßto 16 by I».
Pipes in boxes
Earthen-Ware in crates.
Grindstones, Coals, Whiting, &c. .
AUg. Z9 §
Dutch Goods,
Received by the Pennsylvania, from Amflerdam.
GIN, in pipes
Morlaix
Ticklenburgs > In Bales
* Ofnaburgs J
53." }
Hollands \ DU ck, in ditto
Ravens 3
Bedticks, in ditto
?sr }
For Sale by THOMAS fcs" JOHN KETLAND.
Aug. 29 S
L AND I N G,
From on board the Brig REBECCA, Dominic Davini,
Master, at Philip Care's Wharf, and for Sale by the
Subscriber,
London Particular Madeira WINE,
In Pipes, Hoglheads and Quarter Calks.
There are in the above parrel 10 Hhds- of CHOICE
OLD WINE, fit for immediate use.
Robert Andrews,
Sept. 6. mw&f No. 86, So. Wharves.
John Whitefides & Co.
Have for Sale,
Venetian Red,
SpanilU Brown,
White Lead, ground in oil:
Shot, No. I, 1, 3, 4> 5-
London Porter, in calks and bottles-
Green Copperas.
Several crates of Queens Ware, in fetfcs, with desert
ditto campleat.
Blistered Steel,
German ditto.
Sept. 31. diw
To be disposed of,
THE time of a healthy NEGRO WOMAN, who
has between faur and five years to serve: She ,
can be recommended for her sobriety and honefly. For
particulars enquire at No. 13a, Chefnut-llreet.
Aitgnft 31 v/ geftf
At a /fecial meeting of the Board of Di
reSoPs for eflablljhing ufeful Manufactures, ho/Jen
at Palerfon, July 8, 179^,
RESOLVED, That a special meeting of the Stock-,
Holders of the Society be called on the fir it Monday,
being the third ay of OAober next, at Paterfon, by ten
of the clock of the fame day; then and there to take
into consideration the propriety of dissolving the said
corporation, agreeably to the law m luch cafe made and
provided—and the Sto kholders are earneftiy requested
to attend the said meeting in person or by proxy.
Angull 17 dt^othO
For Sale,
A Complete Font of Brevier,
T7Ntircl7 new . and yet unopened. The weight of this
XI/ font is about 311 lb. It is from the Fcundery of
Wiifon 5c Sons,Glafgow and will be Told at cost £< charges,
Also for Sale, a pair of Super Royal Chafes.
Enquire at the Office of the Qazctte of the United
States, 119 (phefnut-flrce;.
t * -Srofmber 27.
Washington Lottery.
The Twenty-second & Fwcnty-third Days' Drawing of u
the Wafliington Lottery, No. 2, are received at the office
1 No. 234, Market-street, where tickets may,be examined.
j, N. B. Information given where tickets in all the other
r lotteries may be procured. t
; Sepcentber 23, 1796. df
>
Thomas Ryerfon 1
* iff AS jftOfoti vctjjhjf ship« Molly afiti
ITX "Packet from Liverpool, and the Light Horse from J
Bristol, and i» now opening for sale, at his store No.
177, Market-ilreet, art extensive alfortment of
Ironmongery, Cutlery, Hardware
and Saddlery.
The (hip Caroline, now on htr paflage from Liverpool
to Philadelphia, brings the remainder of his fall impor
tation.
; N. B. At the above store may be had, a few elegant
> Mahogany Cases for Table Furniture; also, a good as
sortment of the bell kinds of Knives and Forks.
Sept. 23. d
French Goods.
Received by the Sally, Mitchell, from Havre-de
t Grace,
' Cafe"'" ac " Cs ' SHOES of all colors fort 3 and sizes
1 Ditto white and colored Silk STOCKINGS
I Ditto Fine LAWN
I Ditto bed fine CAMBRIC i
I Ditto Ladies' bell lhammy and Grenoble Gloves
For Sale by THOMAS Sc'JOHN KETLAND.
§ u
' Wm. HOLDERNESSE,
No. 76 High Street,
HAS reccired, by tfije lati'fl in ■ iy'lf fir* rr f-ppo and
the East Indies, a well felefted aflortment of Silk
Mercery, Linen Drapery and Huherdalhery Goods; which
he will fell, Wholesale and Retail, on the lowest terms;
, AMONGST WHICH ARE, r
Some fine India mUfiins embroidered with gold and frlver o
j Superfine Book, Jaconet, and Mulmul ditto t
Do do do d 6 Handkerchiefs c
Some extra black tafTeties,lut«ftringsand colored Persians
Bandano Handkerchiefs t
' Long and (hort Nankeens
English Mantuas of the firft quality (;
Dam aft table linen and napkins; very fine
Sillt'Hofiery, an elegant afibrtnuint r
Thead and cotton do
r Umbrellas—green silk, oil'd do. and do cloth
French cambrics, very fine
Irifii Linens, do. &c. &c. June 14 §
For Sale, t
(In an excellent situation for business,)
A three-story brick House and' L.ot of
Ground,
1 Eighteen feet front and twenty-five feet in depth, on
. the South fide of Market near Fron£-ftrcet, now in poflaf
fiou of Samuel Read. .
Apply to «
IXrael Pleafants, or j
1 J Charles & Jqfe_ph.Pleafan!;i.__ _
Sept. 13. dtf 1
The Cargo of the Polacre Independent,
CAPTAIN CATHCART, from Alicant and Lif- 1
bon, landing at the fubferibers wharf— i
a 8 Pipes of Brandy
18 Bales of Spanilh wool
3 do. of Annifeed
7000 Bulhels of best Lisbon Salt
80 Boxes of Lemons
. For file by WILLINGS ft FRANCIS.
ALSO, 1
Seventy Hoglheads of prime JAMAICA SUGARS,
received by the ship Dominick Terry, Capt. De Hart, t
from Kingston. i
S«pt. 13. d 1
FOR SALE, 1
WINE, London particular Madeira, 4 years old, '
in pipes and hoglheads •
Claret, genuine old, in cases
Gin, in pipes, from Holland
' Earthen Ware, in crates
: Balket Salt, in hoglheads
Shot, Nos. 6, 7, 1 and 9
Bar Lead, Red and white dry lead
Steel, German and Rulfii, in barrels
\ ciblci, junk, huntings tarpolin canvas, c
Tin plates—An invoice Stationary, by a
THOMAS & JOHN KETLAND. 1
J»ly £ ;
Lottery and Broker's Office,
, No. 64, South Second street. j
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. for sale—a
Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
the late lottery.
Check Books kept for examination and registering, for
the City of Walßington, No. 2, and Pattefon Lotteries,
both of. which are now drawing—information where
t tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
examination.
The fubferiber foKcits the application of the public
and his friends, who wish to purchase or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills ©f Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
; &c. or to obtain money on deposit of property.
J ' , Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, Augufi 18, 1796. mth
For Sale, 1
The Time of a Negro Man,
' Who is a good Cook. Enquire at No. 109, South
Water-Street.
Sept. 23. dio ' J
; WA N T E D, ' \
j A Middle-Aged WOMAN", who can be well recom- I
j mended, to take charge of the entire management of '
I children—Such a person will meet with suitable encou
ragement, and may hear of- a place, by applying to the
printer of this Gazette. (
Sept. 14. mwf (
Dilfolution of Partnership.
THE Partncrlhip between ROBERT ANDREWS anii <
P AVID MEREDITH, under the firm of ANDREWS
and MEREDITH, being diflolved. All person* who arc
' indebted to, or who have claims against the laid house, arc
requclled to apply for fcttlement to the fubferiber.
t ROBERT ANDREWS,
No. 86, So, Wharve».
d if
* For Sale,
[ By J. WARDER, PARKER & Co.
An Invoice of Cordage, p .
Coififtipg of different sizes, from 12 inch cables down
to rupe of 2 inches, of different lengths: Imported in £ a
the flip Swift, from Hull, entitled to drawback.
Scut. 27,. dtf R a
T vr'enty Casks excellent Claret and I
| A few pipes choice Bordeaux Brandy, Co
iVr fait by :
'joseph Anthony 1$ Co.
September d 6
NANKEENS,
1 Of the frfl quality, FOR SALE BY,
RD. and JAS. POTTER.
For any quantity above Five Thousand Pieces, a
beral credit will be given. R. & J. P.
September 13. T. tf
- '70,000 Pieces Nankeens,
Of the bejl quality and on reajonable terms,
FOR SALE BY
Philip Nicklin & Co.
Anguft 16. dtf
THIS DAY PUBLISHED, W
By J. ORMROD, No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet,
[Price iz 1-2 Cents)
The President's Address
To the People of the United States,
- Announcing his intention of from public life
at the Cxpiratioff of the present term of
presidency.
September 20. d rj
■ ! Public Notice is Hereby Given,
I, I*o the Freemen of the City and County of Phila- T1
X delphia, and the County of Delaware, that a gene
ra] eleilion will be held 00 Tuesday the eleventh day
r of Oflohet next. —The eleflion to be opened between
the, hours of ten o'clock in the forenoon, and one
o'clock in the afternoon.
s When the freemen of the City of Philadelphia, are
10 "meet at the State-hoiffc in the fa'*d city, to elesfl
Six Representatives far said city in General Aflem
bly, A
One Representative for said city in tlieHoufe of Rc
prefentatives t>f the United States. '
Twenty persons for members Of the Common Coun
cil.
Twelve persons for members of the Seledl Com- t>
. mittee.
The Freemen of the City and County of Philadelphia
to elect
One person for Governor
Two persons for Coroners
One person for County Commiflioner
The Freemen of the County of Philadelphia, to
1 elefl
Six Representatives for said County in General As- «
fembly. '
One Representative for said county in the House of
Representatives of United States. A
The Ficemen of the City and County of Philadel
pTila, and County erDHaware, to eTeiff
One Senator for the. State ]j
s The Freemen of the towndiip of the Northern Li
- berties are to hold their election at the town-house in
.Second Street continued, above Coats's Strtet.
The Freemen of the townships of Germantown, ~
Roxborough and Bristol, are to hold their eledlioii at
the Union School House in Germantown.
The Freemen of the townships of Oxford, Byberfy, .
Lower Dublin and Moreland, are to hold their eleilion
at the house of the iate John darnfley in Bufsletown, in
township of Lower Dublin. Fi
, And the F> eemen ps the Diftriil of South wark, and
, the townships of Moyamenfing, Paflyunk, and King- p
felling, are to hold their eleilion at the State-House in C
the City of Philadelphia. D
The Confiables of each Ward, Diftritf, See. are to M
hold their eleilion, in the different diftri<3s to choose J s
their infpedlors for the enfuingyear, and to give their A
attendance at the time and refpe<£tive places.
Sept. 26. JOHN BAKER, Sheriff.
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT agreeably to an a& of Congress of the United
States of America, paifed at Philadelphia, the 28th day 1
»> of May, 17g6 ; laying duties on Carriages, for the conveyw
ance of persons, and repealing the former a£ts for that pur- W
pose.—That there shall be levied, collected and paid, upon
all carriages for the conveyance of persons, which shall be * r
kept by or for any person, for his or h«r own use, or to let w
out to hire, or for the conveying of passengers, ,the several du.
ties and rates following, to wit. ys
For and upon every Coach, 15 dols. qi
a upon cveVy Chariot, 12 dols. cl
ii upon every Poll Chariot, 12 dels* P
upon every Poll Chaise, 12 dols. 01
r upon'every Phaetoo, with or without top, gdols
5> upon every Coachee, 9 dols.
e upon other Carriages, having panne 1 work above, -
n with blinds, glaffesor curtains, 9 dole.
upon four wheel carriages, having framed posts and
r topi with lleel springs, 6 dols. /l 1
upon four wheel top Carriages, with wooden or iror
fpriiigs 01 jacks, 3 dols.
upon curricles with to6s, 3 dols*
'» uponchaifes with topi, 3 dols.
'> upon chairs with dolt.
upon sulkies with topsj 3 dels.
upon other two wheel top carriages, 3 doll.
upon two wheel carriages, with lleel or iron springs, g
3 dols. a
For and upon all other two wheel carriages, 2 dols. p
upon every four wheel carriage, having framed ports c
and tops, and reftiug upon wooden spars, 2 dols.
1 The Colle&ofs of the Revenue of the firft survey of the
Dillritt of Pennsylvania, will ittend daily, until the 30th day
of September next, for the purpose of receiv i;ig the duties on r
Carriages, at No. 117, in Race or SalfaCra* ftrcet, in the City
of Plwladelphia, at the house of Daniel S. Ciair, Esq. in the
County of Montgomery ; and at the house of Abraham Du
- bois, Esq. in the County of Bucks; of which all persons pof- .
,sic fTcd ol f«ch Carriages are desired to take notiee.
Notice is alio given, i,
e TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign distilled fpiri*
tuows liquors, that licences will be granted to tbern ; one li
_ ccnce for carrying on the business of retailing of Wines, in a
iefs quantity, or in less quantities than 30 gallon*—and one
licence for carrying on the business of retailing Spirituous li- e
A quors in less quantities then 20 gallons, at the fame time and
S at the fame places, by the officer* legally authorised to grant |
c fuck licences.
e WILLIAM NICHOLS, (
Infpeftordf the Revenue of the firft survey '
of ihediflritlof Pennfjlvania.
Office of InfpeOion,at ) -" '
Philadelphia, sift July, >796. J
FOR SALE,
By N. and J. FRAZIE'R,
No. 95, S. Trcmt-fircet,
Prfcie 3ofton B.cf, m barrels.
Georgia Cotton.
Carolina Rice and Ir.digo.
Skerry and Teneriffe Wines, of 'excellent tjualiiy.
Ravens Duck.
lndio Bsßdanno's.
Sewing Silks, various colours.
CofT<»hs and Gnrrahs.
Siut. I/; tts4\v.
1 ——■ : —-T- — • —-
For sale by the fubicribefs,
IN Ps MN-STKFtT,
J3O quarter Cliefts frefh ITyfon Tea;
100 ditto do. freih Souchong Tea;
300 Boxes China, containir.g fihcia.il tea fettt -of 44
pieces;
480 pieces Bandafloes.
Willings
January 36 ' flßr tt&f
FOR SALE.
PORT WINE, and
HOLLAND GIN, of the fir ft qualities in Pipes.
FRAUNCfiS and VAN REED,
brokers flhd Commillion Merchants, No. 63,50.3d Stv
Who discount approved NOTES of hand.
N. B. An APPRENTICE Wanted. -
September 14. ~n\vf
" THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED, ~~
By W. YOUNG, MILLS and Son,
Corner of Second and Chefnut fireets,
Price 11 1-2 cents,
The President's Address
To the People of the United States,
INTIMAtING
The resolution he has farmed to decline being confrdered
among the number of those out of whom a choice is to
be made, at the ensuing ele&ion of a Prefrdcnt of the
United States.
Sept. 20, . Iys6
Great is Truth and must prevail.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And for sale at A r o' 41 Chefnut-jlreet by J. ORM P-QDi
An Apology for the 15ible,
By R. Watson, z>. d. p. m. s.
B'tjhop of Landajf, &c.
Being a complete refutation of Paine'S
Age of Reason,
And the only answer to the Second Part.
August 30. t dtf
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
By W. Young, Mills and Son,
[Price 50 cts. in boards, 62 1-2 neatly bound]
An Apology for the Biblc^
In a fries of Letters,
AddrefTed to Thomas Paine, authorof a'book entitled
The Age »f Reason, part the fecor.d, being an in
vestigation (f true and fabulous theology-
By R. WATSON, D. D. F. R.S. l ord Bilhop of
Landaff, and Regius Profefibr of Divinity
in the Uuiverfity of Cambridge.
Sept. 16. iuScf6
India Tamboured Muffins.
A Jmall, har.dfeme assortment sf Mujlins,
viz.
Fine tamboured Malda and i'antipore Muslins, vaiiwi*
pattern* and prices.
Plain 6-4 Jaconet.
Corded and cross-barred Muffin Shawls.
Ditto ditto 6-4 and 4-4 Dorcas.
Muslin Handkerchiefs, fine and coarse.
Japan Muslins, and
A few pieces extraordinary fine Long Cloths.
FOR SALE BY
Thomas Tingey-,
l)o. t2i, South Third-ftrcet>
Sept. la. tutf&f
TO BE SOLD,
That Neat and Convenient House,
WHEREIN the fijbfcriber now lives. There are iou.
rooms on a floor : the house is two stories high
with a good garret above : under the whole is' un excel!-*
ent cellar, with a dry well, in which is ai convenient
framed chamber for preserving meat, butter, &c. in warm
weather. Attached to th« hotlfe is a Stable for three
horses, hay-los , granary, and cari iage-houfc, a wood
yard paved with stone, and a garden wiih foil of a fine
quality. An indisputable title will be made to the pur
chaser. For farther particulars apply to the fubferiber in
Princeton, or. in her absence to Thomas D. Johnson, Esq.
or the rev. Samuel S. Smith.
ANN WITHERSjPQON.
Princeton, Aug 24. 2awtO
Plans of the city 1 of Philadelphia,
Including the Northern Liberties and diftridt of
Southwark,
Published, and fold by
BENJAMIN DAVIE S, •
No. 68, High ftreetj
(Price one dollar.)
THIS plan is 16 inches' square, and his teert cn'
, graved by one of the firft artists In ths city, from a lat£
and accurate furVey. Purchasers are entitled to a pam
phlet with each plan, giving " some account of the
' city, Its population, trade, government, &c.
July 19 tu&ftf
; TAKE NOTICE,
1 ' I 'HE fubferiber intends to make applicatibn for a re
' J. newal of the following certificate, supposed to be
: loft on the paffige to England in April 1794:
Certificate No. 1C335, dated 15th November, 1793#
for 2830 dollars and _02 cents—Six per cent, domestic
debt, on the books of the Treafuryof the United States,
in the name of the Hon. John Trevor.
» ROBERT BIRD, at John Warder's.
Philadelphia, August 36th, 1796. *tu&f6w
e ' W A NIF E -^
• Three JOURNEYMEN BOOK-BINDERS,
t OOD fleady workmen Will meet with constant tm-
VJT ployment, and good wages; by applying to JOHN
CURTIS, No. 43, North Fourth-street.
y ' N. B. BOOK-BINDING in all its different branches,
executed with neatness and dilpatch. Public and private
- libraries repaired in the ncatef'. and bell manner.
September 20. t 4cF It F C E.S CURRENT.
Philadelphia, Sept. 30.
PER QUANTITY— DOLLARS AT 100 CENT*.
Dolls. Cis. Del If Cts.
•d-NCfiORS, pr.lb. II Kail:, Id, lOd, I id,
Allum, £nglifi,pr cut 775 and lad, per lb. T3
Ditto, Roch, pr lb. II Nutmeg:, per lb. II
A/be:, pof per tin, 17° Oil, linseed, per gall. 133
Pasrl, 1-5° -Olive,
Arrack, per ditto, per cafe, 9
Pacts,, Shoulder,pr. It. 10 —S-.ueet, befl, in
Flitehee, *3 flafie, per tin, IO
jbrandy, common, * tto hafects, 11
—Ctniae, » *J battla, 7
BraxiUtto, per ten, 9» Spermaceti pr gall 106
Uriels, per M. 7 Train,per bit. 18
Srrad, /hip, per cut. 6 Whale, per gal. 40
Dim, pilot 9 SO Porter per cask, 7 3°
Ditto, fir.all ■water — London,per diz. IJO
ler hep, 9° American do. bott.
Beer, American, in bit- ">cL
tie,, per dozen, hot- Pitch, per bbl. 4
tie: included, 'l 60 Pork, Burlington, per
Ditto, per barrel, 6 barrel,' Itj to 10
Boards,Cedar,perMfeet 30 Lower county, 19
' Heart, 3° ——Carolina, 16
NrtuEngland, l 6 80 Peas, Albany, pr bufi. 93
- Oak, 46 Pepper, per lb. 38
Merchantable pine, "2 8 Pimentt, 14
. SajS, A. l 8 Roiflns, befl per beg II
Makogar.i&fo'M Ditto per jar, 6
The above are tbQMop Ditto per box *8
price:, for the yard Rice, per cwt. J
price price, add I del- Rofm f>er barrel 4 30
tar, J3 cents., pr M. Rum, Jamaica,pr gal. I 67
Prim ft one in rolls, per Antigua I 54
ewt. 3 33 Wind-war J ' I 40
Serf,Bolon, per bII.IS al6 ' _ I 4?
Country, ditto 14 Country, N. E. <J>
Fresh, cut. sto 8 Saltpetre, per c-wt. 50
Butter per lb. 18 a 40 Sapfras, per ton
__ ,7, 14 «»', i»o
"Candles Sperm, per lb. 5 6 Steel, <Sm-m.m, per tb. T4
—— /fa* *~~Engiyb, blifl.pr c-wt. XI 14
Myrtle Wax 10 —American, per ton 133 33
Mould fallow 18 <a 19 —Crowley's, pr faggot
Dipped 15 Snabe root, per lb. 35
£{«/», Enelift, Per lh. 2? bro-uin per Ih. 11
C»v«/r;i I 1! 013 —White 14
Chocolate IS * 33 —Caflile 22
Ciknamon 14
fW I 50 A* *»«'" JO
Cocoa, ter cwt. I? Spermaceti refined pr lb.
Coffee, per 'lb. »5 "28 SaiV £»£/>£. A'o.
dial, per bufiel, 3° *4® 1, per yard,
Copperas*, per nut. 3 *«*»"> 1 > "*• 30
Cordage, American, per *" A r ». 1, rfs.
16 a l 8 Sugar, lump, per !b. 4J
Cotton, per lb. HJ/JC— Loaf, Jingle refl 47
Currants dtMc iiu "
Duet, RuJJla, per piece, 15*18 Havannab, -white 10
—Ravens 11 JO Ditto bro-wn l 6
Dutch .Sail Duet 44 —Mufcovadop.t-Jlt.Tlil J67
feathers, per lb. '66 Eafl India, pr.
Flax, ditto II "bt. 14 66
Flaxfeei, per bufbel I Sp. Turpentine pr gall. 66
flour, Sup. per bl. 14 al3 Salt, allum, pr bufiell 60
Common, II « 14 —Liverpool 3 4
■_Z)i/r middlings, bet, 84 IO —(W/z 60
Meal, Indian 4 33166 —Lijhon $6
ditto Rye, S Sli fi building IV. 0.
<f. 367 per ton 1267
■Fuflic per ton, 15 D '"' Livt 0ai -> 16
■Gin, Holland per cafe, - 50 Do. Red Cedar pr foot
2).. per gall. I 93 I Shingles 18 inches,pr II
Glue, per lb. 18 4
Ginger,-vihiterace,percivilß -D'V/a 2/«f 9
HHU l 6 DHt» feet drejfed 16
Ditto, ground 24 Staves, pipe pr 1000, 60
Cinfeng, porlb- 30 -luhite-oalhogebead 43 33
Gunpowder, canhort,per Red. oak ditto 28
4.1 Lcogan l 6 33
Ditto, fne glazed, it Barrel JO
Grain, Wheat pr bufi 4 Heading 44
Rye, I Skin: Otter,befl pr picce 333
Omts 40 —Minis 16
tndian Caret, 9 0i 93 —Pf< S re y s ® 54
Arr/,7, I 40 —Ditto red I 20
bejlfielledpr.lb—Martini JC
Buek-xlcat per —Filers • J7
7S —Bsan 3
jSawi, /r. tf. ■ 13 Raaons 6o
imported, per —Musk-rats, 37
_ te)l JOO —Beaver, per lb. 1 62
American, pcrlb. IO —Deer, in hair 55 533
Herrings, per bbl. 6 Tar, $1 gall.
Hides, raw pr, lb. t to 9 /«•«/. *5°
Haps, IO —Carolina, ilgall. 4JO
Hen/bead Icops'fer M. 30 Turpentine, per bbl. 340
Indigo, French per lb. V Tobacco, J. River befl
-Carolina, I 100/4. 7^B
Trons, fadp.r ton 133 33 Peterflsurg 6i6 JO
■/«;>, caflings per c-wt. 4 PttQlomlc 3^5
~~Pennfylv.bcr fcarcc —Georgia 6a ■>
110 a 12667 ■ Carolina 4<2 5
■n, Russia perttn 97 Tea Hyson, per lb. Ito 1
Pi s 34 —Hyson Jkin, 83
Sheet, 424 33 —Souchong, I oil >3
Nail rods, 133 33 —Congo, JO
per c-wt. 5 " Bohca, 35
Lard, he^sper lb. 14 Tallm), refned, fnr ti. 14
Lead in pigs* per curt. 533 Tin, per box 16 JO
-in bars, 7 Vanilla, pcrlb. IO al4
white, >3 33 Verdigrcafe, do. 1
rc jJ rj Vtrmilliun, 1 50
Leather,'foal per lb. 40 Varnish, per gallon,
SAgnvm vita per ten, 44 Wax, Bees, per lb. 33
Logwood, ' 50 Whale-bone, long,pr ib. 14
Mcce, per lb. 14 Wine, Madeira pr p. 246
Maclarel, befl per bbl IS
second quality 8 ' Tenrriffc,prgal. to
Madd r,beflper lb. 40 Feyal, 67
Marble wrought pr fort 60 -( Pf.t per pipe IJO
spars ditto 60 -Do. in bott.pr doT
Molasses, pe' gall. $6i62 -Claret,percafi 40to$0
Muftnrd,ppre r lb. 46 Sherry, tefgalhn IJo
flour, in bottles dox 1 40 Malaga, 84
ftr X 20 t
DAT IS PUBLISHED,
By M/thf.w Carev, 118, Market-street,
A DiflTertation on Slavery,
IVJ7H A PROPOSAL
For the Gradual Abolition of it
In the State of Virginia.
ty ST. GEORGE TUCKER, Profeffvr of Law in
the UiihxrJrtji of William and Mary, and one of
the Judges in the General Court in Virginia.
« slavery not only violate* the Laws of Nature and cf
"« Civil Society, it a!fo wounds the bell forms of govern
" merit: in a Democracy, where all men are equal, slave
ry J6 contrary to the spirit of the constitution."
[jMonl*fq*ieu^]
Sefr. ir). 6
Islew-iMigJand Rum,
Tn fn>£ffie»ds,
Welfli's best Boston Chocolate,
'And
HYbON-SKIN TEA, in quaru-r chells, -
FOR SALE, BT
A. MASLfLt 55" ISR.W. MORRIS,'
No. 60, Dock-llrcct.
-Sept. 14. *o<s
... 1 1 1 ... T
LINE? TO A BEAUTIFUL SPRING IN A
VILLAGE.
[Prom poems by S. T. COLEP.IDGE/J
ONCE mort, sweet stream ! with flow foot wand'ring
near,
I bless tny milky waters cold and clear.
Efcap'd the fladiing of the noontide hoi:«
With one frelh garland of Pierian flowers,
(Ere from thy zephyr-haunted brink I turn)
My languid hand Ihall wreath thy molTy urn.
For not thro* pathless grove with murmur rude
Thos footheft the fad wood-nymph, solitude
Nor thine'unfeen in cavern depths to well.
The HFRMIT-FOUNTAIN of fomc dripping celj!
' Pride of the Vale ! thy ufeful dreams fuppiy
| The fcatter'd cots and peaceful hamlet mgh.
The elfin tribe around thy friendly batiks
With infant uproar and loul-footbmg prank',
Releas'd from frhool,their little hearts at reft.
Launch paper navies on thy wavelefs breast.
The ruflic here at eve with pensive look
Whittling lorn ditties leans upon his crook,
Or starting pauses with hope-minglsd dread,
; To lift the much-lov'd maid's accudom'4-tread,
: She, vainly mindful of her dame's command,
• if.oiters, the long-fill'd pitcher in her hand.
Unboaftftil stream ! Thy fdßnt with pebMcd falls
The faded form of past delight recalls,
What time the morning fun of Hope arofs,
And all was joy ; five when another's woes,
A tranlient gloom upon my foul imprest,
Like paiTuig clouds impiilured on thy breast.
Life's current then ran sparkling to the noon
Or filv'ry stole beneath the pe#five Moon.
Ah ! now it works rude-brakes and thorns aiflong)
Or o'er the rough rock bursts aad foams along !
From the Aurora.
To the Ele&ors ai the City of Philadelphia
Fellow-citizens,
WHEN we consider (he high interest that we
all took in the important queltion' lately decided in
our national Lcgifliture, there feemt no ooubt ttul,
ir the ensuing eleftioH, your attention will be at
traCted in a conliderable degree tov/ards the differ
ent candidates for that station, and to the forming
of our choice.
This confcquence, which is natural, is also very
desirable j because the more ardently we enter tipon
the fubje£t, the more likely arc we to choose' with
propriety, as the interest we take in the fubjed
will sharpen our difccrnraent in investigating the
ebavaftert that we propose to represent us. There
is, however, reason to apprehend that this zeal
(which when moderate i? beneficial} will be ren
-1 dered injurious by cxcefs, and instead of promoting
indu.trious researches. will serve only to bias the
public judgment. I would therefore caution yop,
my fellow-citizens, to free yourselves from all party
prejudices, and to avoid thole men who come in a
pressing mariner to solicit youi fuffrages, becaufc
it is probable that their a&ivity in the matter*pro
ceeds from, the fame influence. Let your votes o
riginate with yourselves, and let them be the result
of your own cool refle&jon. Examine with can
dour into the abilities and integrity of a sandidate,
and decide for him on whose li-de you find the ba
lance of these rcquiflte qmlitw«, without
to listen to the intrigues »f corruption, or the fo
licitatjdns of ignorance.
For my part, I cotifefs, I cannot help fufpediing
■ these who evince such auxietv to direst the judg
' msnts of their neighbours, of less worthy views
! than those of zeal for the public good; that adting
themselves from interested motives, they endeavor
to ingratiate themselves still more with their favor
> ite, by converting others to his interest.
' Let us, however, for the fake of charity, flip.
| pose that they a£t from principle. Is it not the
1 height of arrogaocc for them to qndeavour to bia3
the minds of other men, and substitute their own
» opinions for ours ? What is it but to fay that we
' aredellitute of penetration to fee the interest of
our country, and that they wi(h to fuppiy our de
) ficiency by their own' inftrudtion ?
It is not intended here to recommend any parti
cular man to the notice of the public. I should coufi
der such a recommendation as impertinent, because
we all know the candidates, and know their cha
radlers. All 1 would wifti is, that the decilion of
1 eirery iadividual, to whatever fide it inclines, mqy.
be fiee, and not dependant on the will of others.
» ROMULUS.
>
RICHMOND, September <24.
> To the Freeholder# of the Couuties of Gloucester,
Mathews, King and Queen, Eflcx, King Wil
" liam, and Middlesex.
GENTLEMEN,
, The time* approaches when you must depute an
3 Eledtar to chu'fe a JPrefident and Vicc-Prefident of
7 the United States. I offer myfelf to you for that
! honour. My principles of politics have been in
favour of the wife plan of neutrality, adopted, and
3 pursued by our government. lam theiefore attach
-4 cd to those men in huh official situations, who have
kept our country, during a molt trying and peril
ous crisis, in a ttate of ; thereby advaucing
its prosperity to the highest pitch, oi which it is
at present susceptible; who have made the conftitu
tion the rule of their a&ions, and have invigorated
it with such refpe&ability, as to acquire to it the
confidence of the European world. Among the
worthies who have given to our government such
an exaltation of character in the eye of nations,
t mutt be reckoned foremoft in the lift, " the Picli
f dent of the United States.''—He would molt nffui.
edly have my iupport were 1 to have an oppcir.
' tunity of exerciiing an eteitive voicc, unleis he
were to notify his intention of retiring from the go
vernment. in that event, it would be my part,
most diligently, to search eut for his fuccelTor, a
chara£ter the most resembling his in political prin
ciples, in found judgment, in unexampled prudence,
aud in unlhaken lnmuefs.
Not altogether ignoiant of the public opinions
and fentimen s on public affairs, of most men of
such confidcration in the ftatrs as would aspire to
the Prefidcntial chair; 1 perfuadc myfelf, gentle,
men, were you on this occasion to give me yeur
* Firjl Monday in Novcmher.
confidence a* an E!eser, 1 wo«id n<ii err i i m;
choice, nor give my voice for a msn w!w i" j
cur your reprobation, as Holding principles insom- j
patiple with the in f ereft» of the Unite,! Sta - <.
With every consideration of elteem aod nfpett,
I remain, gentlemen,
Your feliow-citizcn, and
Most obedient humble fervanf,
RALPH WORMELEY.
Rofegill, Septc4nbei 6, 1756.
ELIZABETH-TOWN, Sept. 28.
It is with a mixture of pleasure and regret, that
we present to our reader* the PRESIDEN T's
ADDRESS, contained in thi» day's paper:—of
pleasure, because we elleera it, an invaluable legacy
to the l'eop'e of these States t—of regret (a tclfiih
one we e<mfclVJ~~fcrcgaulc it announces his departure
from the political helm.
If fuperflitioH hallows every relic of a pretended
faint; —if fenfibilily so richly prizes every memorial
of a beloved friend ; —how highly should the citi
zens of America venerate this teftimoi ial of affec
tion from the BRIGHTEST MIRROR OF
DEITY that ever exiiled, even though it were
possessed of no intrinsic merit! But tfte heart,
warm and enthusiastic, often fondly invents a mi
crofgope to view the loveliness of afavored ofcjeft ;
and, deceivtd by partiality, is enraptured by things
that are frivolous, perhaps despicable. It is not
so in the present cafe ; for the undtrjiimdmg is con
vinced equally with the heart, arid the glad tribune
of applaufeis cheerfully prtffered by them both.
This address relembles the fond advice of a dy
ing parent to his beloved children :—Like that, it
breathes the warmth of affc£hon, and an anxious
folicitudc for their future welfare:—Like that, let
it never be effaced from our remembrance, let it
deeply impTcfs our mftids, and be worn in the cen
tre of our hearts.
And when its illustrious author (hall retire to par
take of the enjoyments of private life—long, long
may he live, enjoying all that happiness which he
deserve* ! May he cWerriuliy psft through the even
ing of his days, blessed by the God whom he wor
ships, esteemed by the people whom he has render
ed happy, loved by the wife whom he eherifhes,
'at peace with hirnfelf, and neither fearing nor wilh
ing for death : whilit his philanthropic achieve
ments throng around him, like minillrant-cherubs,
Tinging their requiem to his declining years! ,
r May he live
Longer than 1 huve time to tell his years!
Ever belov'd and loving may his life be !
And when old time ihail lead him to his end,
Goodness and he fill up one monument!
Philadelphia,
FRIDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 30, 1796.
Died, in this city, on Saturday the 17th .in
stant, 'after a (hort illness, Mr. Richard Coch
ran, Merchant. He was a 'young gentleman,
defcrvedly refpe&cd by a numerous, and refpe&a
ble acquaintance. And the next day his remains
were interred in the Prclbyierian bsirial ground,
in Lower Merion township, Montgomery county,
attended by * Vtft concourse of rcfpeflable citi
zens, ot deferent denominations.
Etctrali of a letter from a gentleman, dated City ef
Wafoington, 26th Sept. 1796, to a person in this
J&y-
this moment the alarm of fire is cried. A
tremenduous fire has broke out in George-town,
and lias consumed ten houfea, all of them frame
Messrs. George and Adam Ki»g are the principal
fufferers ; Mr. J. Forrelt has loft two or three hou
les ; Doctor Magtuder has fuffered by the removal
of his dAgs, &c. His bouse was torn down with
two others, which was the means of the fire being
ftopt, with the help of the engine. The fire broke
out ih one of Mr. Kings houfss, but cannot find
ont the particulars ; it is said to be the negledt of a
servant of Mr. King, who was ordered on Satur
day, to have his mailers horse ready by day light,
for Mr. King to go to Baltimore, and left the can
dle in the ftabli—this is one of the reports, there
art others, but it is hard to tell which is true.—
Five of the houses were occupied as dry and wet
good ftorcs ; all the goods have been laved. No
lives loft, nor any pt ifon hurt."
Extras frsni a jFup.nch Pafss.
France possesses ;:t this moment only three colo
nies in the Well-Indies. Cayenne, which was
oever reckoned as any thing in the commercial
scale. Gvadaloupe, which hardly supports it
felf—- the produce of which does not amount to one
quarter part of what it did before the war, since
France gets nothing, and the United States very
little.
St. Domingo is divided betwoen.the French
and the Englilh. The latter pofl'efs that part for
merly called Grr.nde Anfe, comprehending I rait,
Alrieots, Cafe Dame Marie, 'Jeremit and Layemites.
They have also Fort au-Prince, la Croix de Bou
quets, le Mireba'.ais, I'Archahaye, St. Marc, and
the Mule-, that is, in all ten There re
mnins then to the French forty seven or forty.eight.
In this number ate the parishes of the north pav
of the iAind, which, before the revolution, were
the riclitft and mail opulent of the colony.
The quarters which are in the hands ofthe Eng
li!h, produce four times as much as tliofe which
pertain to the French.— [The paper then proceeds
to aftign the reafor.s for-this difference—The prin
cipal one is, that in the places possessed by the Kng-
Ji(h> or those under their command, the negroes
work. In thole possessed by the French, the mu
lattoes have the afccndancy, and there the negiors
will not workj but pillage, burn and deftroy.J
NOTES LOST.
WHEREAS two notes drawn by Benjamin -Halkell
and George W. Kirklard, dated Boitcn, the 44th
; February, 1796, payable to Jofcph May, er order, in 18
months after date, one for One Thouland Dollars, tiie
, other Fifteen Dollars, weie ilolen with iome other pap.rs
out of a U|fnk 011 the JLaneafter road It is reijueftid that
acy perfuntto whom they may be offered for negociit-.an,
» will give notice thereof to the fubferiher.
GARRETT COTTRING^k,
Sept. 30. j rtsu >'
| BY THIS DAY's MAIL.
NEW YORK, Septei»J»er 30.
Ye Her day arrived at this pert, in 49 days from
Greenock, (Scotland) the ihip FANNY, Captai.i
Brain*.—The Editor has been favored with Lo: »
don Papers to the 4th and Glasgow »o the sth oi
August—Extract fol.ow.
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE,
*
PARIS, July 27.
The desertion of the regiment of Bcsgsr is officii
1 cially—XM«»tintrcd-=»tfnn regiment t3"crtmi>lt nil !Vln : - '
; lated.
We are allured that the French is in Manheir (
' and that a comntiifioner ia arrived at U. !le fu-ci :
' ETipcior, to make Overtures of peacc to our
baffador.
; There is » report that Richery has .Ire
English fleet off Cadiz.
Deputies are"arrive J at Genoa from SprdiiiLii
> t» solicit the aSiitance of the French in
that island as a republic.
> Letters from Wefel positively announce, that the,
■ Kiiig of Prussia has offered his mediation to lli'tt'
' Dirc&ory, to bring about a general pacification.
: LONDON, Augul) 2,
The officers and crews of the Refinance, of 44
• guns, c*pt. E. Packenham; and Orpheus,-of 30
c guns, capt. Newcoir.be, now in the Esll-Ivkl:i-j.
5 wiTl thare more prize money on their arrival in jEJrg
' land, than ever fell to the lot of any others befoix
1 them.
Frm i/k Lyndon Gazette—July J3.
Downing Street, July 30.
; The letter, of,which the following Is an extraiii,
: was received from Col. Graham, by the Right iron.
- Lord Grenville, his Majefty'a Principal Secretary
- ot State for Foreign affairs, dated Roveredo, July
• 4> »79<5-
« " On the 30th u!t. f had the honour of inforrst
• ing your Lordship, that the enemy made an un
■ attack on Monte Bsldo on the 281b,
, since that all has remained quiet. Matfhal Wurta
fer arrived here this morming.
Downing Strict July 30.
The letter of which tltte following is an extract,
received from Lieutenant Col. Crawfuid, by tire
Right hon. Lord Grcnviile, his Majelly'a Pri.ici
, pul Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, dated
Head-Quarters of his Royal Highness the Arch-
Duke Charles of Aultria, Elfingci), near Piortz
heim, July 11, 1796.
" I have the honor t® inform your Lordship,
that oh the 7th and Sth inflant, th'e arch-duk# re
mained in pofTefiion of Etthingen, in order to givtf
time for th« arrival at Pfortzheim of the Saxows,
' who were advancing from Graben, to re-inforce his
t Royal Highnefs's army— 3c the corps that had been
detached into the Mountains, under the command
' of Gen. Keim, to cover the left, was ordered ti>
' take its principal pofiiiori at Frewen Alb,
The Saxons reached Pfortzheim in the night of
the Seventh.—— On the eighth, the difpolitiaot
was made to attack Gen. Moreau on the lot 11 in
> the position of the Murg, at Rajladr, Kupeaheiuj
' and Gertzbach, and, on the 9th, while the pre
paratory movements were executing, in order to
bring the troops forward to the different points
• from whence they were to advance the next morning,
the enemy forced back the Archdukes advahccd
polls with a part of their atmy, while their princi
pal force attacked Gen. Keim. His Royal High -
ness immediately i'ypporteil his advanced polls,'and
1 was vifiorious on his tight, and along hit whole
S front ; but yen. Keim, after having made a molt
' obflinatc reManc£, was obliged to yield to the fu
perioiity of numbers, and he retired to Pfortzheim.
a The Saxons who were in march, to cover that ge
neral's left flank, did the lame ; anrd, as this un
' fortunate circumltancc gave the enemy poflVffion of
all the pafles iu the Mountains, on the arch-dukt'»
c left, his Royal Highneis found himfelf under the
neccility of marching with his main army to P/brtz
' heim on the loth, where now encamped.
3 The Auftrians loft on this uecafion, about 1600
men and foui pieces ttf-camjcm—'Ptrr }off of she
'French cannot be evftly afcertainec—but it matt
have been very considerable.
The Prince of Conde's corps, which lm behaved
® with great bravery, was as Villinge* on the Bth, the
u date df the last accounts that were received from it.
The Austrian general Frolich still remained in the
e lirifpiw.
e The enemy has pasTed the Lahn, and the array
which was left for the defence of that part of the
' country, has letired to the position of Bergen, having
thrown proper garrifoas into Mayence and Elirenbreit
® flein.
, At the Court of the Qunen's House, the 29th of July,
1796; picfent, the King's molt excellent Majesty
in Couucil—
J WIS Majesty in Council was this day pleafcd tow
. der, that the Parliament, which stands prorogued to
Tuesday, the i6ih day of August next, fWld'be far
' ther prorogued to Thursday, the 15th day of Septem
-1 ber following—And the Convocations or Canterbuiy
f and York, which fland prorogued to Weduefday the
17th Of August next, Ihculd be farther prorogued io
- Friday, the 16th of September following.
S By KING—A PROCLAMATION.
GEORGE R.
.. Whereas our Parliament ftancs prorogcett to
: s Thuifday the 15th day of September next, ve,
with the advice of our Privy Council, do hereby
. s publish and declare our royal will and pleafurc, tl t
the said Parliament £hall, en the fttid 151b day of
; September uext, be held and fit for the d.fpatcb of
divers weighty and important affairs. A'd the
u lords spiritual and tcrrporal, and the knights, citi-
I, zens and burgeflcs, and the (poromifEonti t for ihuo
gar.i burghs of the H-oufe of Commcais, ate here! v
ie required to give their attendance accordingly ; c
r s WelUaintter on the said 15th day of September
"-"next.
Given at our court at the queen's house, l'.e
29th day of July, 1796, in the 36th year of fc-.
j-eitii.Augoft 3. tt
We have For some time p ft tflened, tliat a mis- m
umlerfiaiding existed between this countty and F
Spain, and that the Executive Dire&ory were ex- ct
erting all their influence upon the Spanilh govern- tl
ment, for the purpose of inducing it to declare war tc
againil this country. The following was publilhed h:
this moaning as a p]
MANIFESTO FROM THE COURT OF SPAIN,
Which the Marquis de lis Cafas, AmbafTador of tt
his Catholic Majesty at our Court, has, it is said, p
by the dire&ioti of his court, presented to Lord h;
Grenville. Whether the manifefio is or is notau- vv
thentic, we have not yet been able to ascertain. It c ,
jc in fubllanceas follows—
" The Spanish cabinet retraces the origin of the F
coalition, and mentions the principal circumflances, fr
as well as the different events, in which both nab
tions took an active part, during their alliance, a- p
gainst the French Republic. This statement is ft
followed by an account of several tranfaftions
which have taken place before and since the feccf
fion of Spain from the coalition, and the treaty of
peace concluded with France, as, a
Firll. The St. JagQ prize (hip, which the note c
contends to have been condemned in open contempt li
of subsisting treaties and legal lorms. w
Secondly. Divers circumstances which attended n
the capture and evacuation of Toulon, on which {
occasion the Spanish cabinet aflerts, that the Bri- J 1
tifh commandets fulfilled none of the terms granted a
to the inhabitants under the of the Spa h
nifh commanders ; and that they carried off feve- si
ral French (hip 3, without allowing the Spaniards tl
any part of the prizes. I
Thirdly. The embargo laid in our ports on t
wood for ship-building, bought up in the north of v
Europe on account of the Spanish government, t
which was left rotting either or board the (hips, o
or in ware-houses, where it could not be taken care p
$f.
.(Fourthly. The embargo laid on the fire-arms a
purchased iii England on Spanish account, and with C
the contest of our government, after the French g
had got pofleflionof tbc Spanish foundcries, which
fire arms were oblig«rd to be re-fold by the Spanish
agents at a considerable loss.
Fifthly. The insult offered to his Catholic Ma- '
jefty, in the person of the Marquis de las Cafas, his r
AmbafTador, vyhen he had his firft audience with '
Lord Grenville. 1
Sixthlyi The seizure of the silks sent to this 1
country by Spanish merchants, which they had
bought up at their own account at the sale of the
piiies made by admiral Richer)', and which they
had sent to England conformable to the laws of £
Great-Britain. 1
Seventhly. That the floppage of several Spa
nish vefiels, the vexatious proceedings daily excr- '
eifed against them by the commanders of the fqua
irons of his Britannic Majesty, as well in the Me
•litertean as in the other seas." 1
A war with Spain will, we should suppose, be '
•:onfidered as a moil calamitous event to this coun
ry„ by every person in it. The time was, when c
- the idea of a Spanish war diffufed almost general '
atisfaftion } but the sentiments of the nation are '
juw, ni believe, changed ; and the people bcgi.i 1
,-0 be conyinced, that galleons and remitter ships, '
lowevcr rich their cargoes may be, affotd but a 1
I joor compensation to the country for the additional ]
axes and burthens, which are thefure and perma- '
tent effects of wat.
August 4,
£(tjp The above cotitradiSed.'J
The manifefio, which was publilhed in a mini-
Aerial paper yesterday morning, we gave without
•my comment on its authenticity. We have since
'earnt that no such manifefio has been presented to
he king's ministers, k this the miniflerial paper it
ell confeffcs; though the fame paper also states
hat " they are persuaded, after the most minute
nqtiiry, that such complaints as they have alleged,
ave been forwarded by the court of Madrid to its
mbaflador in London." Now it certainly will be
■•ith every one a natural fufejeA of enquiry, why
he court of Madrid or its ambassador, thought
.roper to communicate a document of such import
nre to the Editor, of a newspaper, before they
r wade it known to hismajefly's miniflers?—Such a
ciode*of conduct would in the Spanish ambassador
e a flagrant violation of duty. Besides the docu
•' ICHLt- f. If In nlnnnfily— Irp fuljjujjlll of
< >mplaints are weakly handled, and the whole ap
, ears to us to be a forgery, which cannot lay claim
?cn to the merit of ingenuity.
Not that we mean to give it as our opinion that
lereexifts no difference between this country
Spain. On the contrary we havereafon to believe
that the Spanish government hastranfmitted serious
complaints to our cabinet ; that the Executive Di
tto ify pofTefs great influence over theSpanifo court
's and that they are endeavouring to convert
jain from a doubtful friend into a decided foe of
lis country.
The mailer of a neutral vefTel, arrived at Lcith,
entions, that two of the veflels which were en
iged with the Glatton, are arrived (at Flushing ;
■ ie of them had one half of her crew killed, and
tier gun deck entirely torn up ; the other was very
r jJ c)i Shattered.
A lugger, which arrived at Plymouth the day
fore yesterday, brings advice of a convoy having
led from Brest for Bourdeaux, Confiding of two
' gates, two corvettes, and twjnty-fix fa4l of mer
- antmen. It was rumored at Plymouth, the day
fore yesterday, that a F.ench fleet was 2t sea.
Letters from Bonn Hate, that the liege of Ehren
. titftein wftl fpeedity begin in form.
The old Almanack has been forbidden under a
avy fine and impriiotiment at BrulTels.
V eSeiday the convention received the intelligence
r had entered Frankfort. On a ge
the mea
rench had
*lein from
• other, in
' ■' ' f Jouiifcin
' \cr :6rcr tii-m tc traic retreat.
2
Republic, -
"' ' - of Good
ench ; but
tee truth of this welcome piece of information is St
mtich doubted by those who do not know of any th
Fiench fqiiadron having failed for that important w<
colony, and therefore are apt to imagine, that by cr<
the channels through which this intelligence comes
to U9, Cape Francois, where two French squadrons an
have lately arrived from Earope, has been metamor- \t<
phofed into the Cape of Good-Hope. en
A fimiiar mistake at lead took place with refpeft 11c
to the dtvifion which failed last Saturday from
' Flushing, to join the fleet in the Texel. This Beet vil
' aH engag«ment with a large English man-os- ad
war, and was even by the Convention announced to Bi
confifl of Dutch ships, whilst in facl it was entire- an
ly campofed of French vefTels, lately arrived at
Flushing, from Dunkirk. The Incorruptible, a fa:
, frigate mounting 36 guns, received such confidera- O
- hie damage in this engagement, as to be obliged to y<
- put into HeUoetfluys, to refit. The other seven as
5 ships, of different force, returned to Flushing.
i tl
SUABIA, July 17.
f The Auttrian armies, in the cpuntries of Baden, ju
and Wurtemberg, Jiave since the loth been again pi
: compelled to retreat, as they fuftered a considerable tc
t loss ob the 9th. On the 10th they left Carlfruhe
which the French entered on the evening of the n<
I next day. In the action near Wilbad, on the 9th, w
i (according to official accounts from Stntgard) the w
. Auftrians loft about 1500 men in killed, wounded T
1 and prisoners—Several squadrons of the Saxon oi
hiifTars, and the ChafTeurs of Weymar likewise fuf
- fered very much. The Austrian army is retiring ol
s throHgh the Duchy of Wurtemberg towards the b
Danube, and were encamped on the 14th in ft. be- ai
1 tween Kanftadt, Ludwigfburgh and Waiblingen ; 'I
f whence their army retreated in two-columns thro' w
, the Vilflhal and Remfthal. The city of Stutgard w
, on the 15th and 16th was obliged to deliver 60,000
e pounds of bread to the Auflrian capnp. ri
The French have taken poffcfliofi of Obernagold v
j and Obcrenzthal. The head quattns of the arch
t duke Charles, which were on the 14th at Vaihin- o
1 havc-beerrrtuiuvi-J toTlellbroH. I
l VERONA, June 27. t |
This morning a detachment of 1000 French eti- j
. texed Lfcgnage, a Venetian fort. The republicans o
g nowo.eojipy the right bank of the Adige, and the n
i, Auftrians the left. From the movements of the f,
Auftrians, it should seem, that they intended again
s to ait offenfively. n
d ~ • t
c MILAN, July 6.
y. There have been at Pavia and Lodi, several reli- J
f gious and civic feftivals, in which the tree of liber- 1
ty has been planted.
. Great rejoicings been made here on account
of the redudlion of the citadel.
Every thing announces that the Milanese will be 3
speedily ere£led into a Republic'. It ia the iaterefl
of the French to come soon to a refutation on this
e point, for the purpoiie- of organizing a national
, farce, and making it serve for the defence of the
n country. It appears that the'Auftrians are aflem
j| blinjj forces to endeavor to penetrate into Lombar- 1
c dy. The French, who are obliged to occupy a 1
great extent of country,, have also much want of !
' reinforcements, it appears, tDax their plarn ilTto '
unite theit other conqueds to the Lombardiar, Re- 1
public. Deputies from Mpdena and Romagr.a are 1
j just arrived here, demanding this union. I
I GENOA, July if. m j
In consequence of the complaints made by I
Faypoul, in his note to our government, several
priells have been brought before the Police, and in
terrogated refpeifling the offenfive processions. The
priells replied, that they were Sot made under their
0 direfiion, and that at all times the good Catholics
have had the liberty of going t® visit the fanflua
"S ries. It is certain, however, that the priests are the
instigators of these processions, which ace cornpo
t' fed of the lowest clais of the people. The mini
. fter of thf French Republic should have stated
)e more plainly in this memorial,that several members
of tile government promote these alarms, arid that
II on them alone should fall the responsibility, if any
t_ disagreeable event took place. In vain will they
y fay, to excuse thcmfelves, that they were not able
a to restrain the people.
;>r They will be replied to—" It was you who in
stigated the peoclf.uJl£y-were buLJOi'J joftrmnent^
01 and ft is on you that all our vengeance shall fall."
FRANCE.
ARMY OF.THE RHIAE AND MOSELLE.
The general in chics of the army of the Rhine and
Moselle, to the Executive Diredloiy.
" Head Quarters at Baden,
" 28 Meffidor, July 16.
'i- " Citizens Director*,
I- " 1 this day arrived from Pfortzheim to regulate
rt with the deputies of the duke of Wirtemberg, a
of suspension of aims, for which he has folicitcd me.
I fend to you a copy of the treaty which lam about
ii, to conclude with them. Two plenipotentiaries have
II- set out for Paris to negociate with you his particu
; lar peace.
id "It now remains with us to mention to you the
y operations of the army.
" In my letter of the 23d Meffidor, July il, 1
iy gave you an account of the letreat of the enemy to
ig wards Pfortzheim, We pursued them closely by
'o the fame marches.
r- " Oil the 26ih Meffidor, July 14, being in a
iy position to attack them—the divisions under the or
ders of general St, Cyr, being encamped along the
:n I.entz and the Nagold, and those commanded by
general Defaix placed in the front of Ladgen Steiri
a bach—l gave orders to commence the afiault the
following day upon Pfortzheim ; but the Auftrians
re evacaated that position the fame night, the 26th.
:- " Yesterday and to day the army proceeded to
i- wards the Virm. It appears that the enemy has
d retired behind the Necker. If they attempt to
m maintain their grouty}, I shall make the attack as
11 soon as possible ; but I ought not to conceal from
n you, that the marches are exceeding difficult in the
mountains. I have been obliged to leave some troops
at Bruchfltal], to obfetve the garrisons which the
:, enemy marched to Philipfbtirg and Manheim.
d "I have ordered general Ferino to chafe the
it my entirely from (be valley of Kinche. General
i St. Cyr had cortimiffioned general Dahem to second wed
■ this attack from his camp of Frewdenftadt, This mir
was dalle on the 26th Meffidor, July 14, andvas thri
r crowned with the molt complete success. fun
1 " General Jordy attacked the poftsof Htplach oati
i and Haufcn ; and after • spirited lefiftanee, they
• were carried by the biyonet. He surrounded the offi
enemy, took 200 prisoners and two pieces of can- hila
t Hon. (
1 " This movement was ftfeonded by ihe other dt- heir
t visions under the command of general Ferino, who ene
- advanced to Munichveiller, Schvaighaufm, and pilt
) Berbelfheim. Every where the eraemy >vas repulsed, Ma
- and obliged to repsfa the Bitch e. reft
t " General Laborda accorapliffied, at the very rf*<
i fame time, a p<uTd|»e at Huningue, Kempts, ami Fr!
- Old Brifach. All these plans lucceedcd. I cannot 1
? yet furnift; you vviih the details, bu. (hall as soon Bn d
I as the materials are'colle&ed. the
" The attack of general Duhem at thefources of As
the Kinche, were equally fuccefsful.
" The column on the right, commanded by ad- efta
t jutant general Gudin, attacked Wolfach. In his '
n pursuit of the enemy, be made 20 prisoners, and the
c took a magazine full of ammunition. Fr;
e " That of the centre, under the command of ge" the
e i neral VandAmme, attacked the post of Alperftmtg, dra
1, which he carricd with muchjgaliantry. Nearly the
e whole of the enemy was either killed or taken.—
d There were 2co pril'oners, among whom were two
n officer?. 1
■- " The right division, condu&ed by Laval, chief
g of tlie brigade, attacked all the posts of the enemy
e between the Nmker and the Kinche. They were 0 f
:• ail carried. We purfusd them qven to Sehrambert. 9n
; Their lofi was confrderable. Laval took fix covered div
>' waggons, 40 herfes, and 300 prisoners, among |m
d whom were fix officers, and 30 subalterns. !m
o " General Fetino bellows much praise on gene
ral Jordy, Vigne,, chief of the brigade, and Poite» h ' Q
d vin, chief of the battalion of the engineer cerpa. Q t
1- " Gerteral Duhem is unbounded in his encomiums Bii
1- on generals Vandamme, Gudin, adjutant-general tcr
Latai, chief of the battalion, Zv
" The troop* which made the attacks conduced
themselves with great courage. They were the 56th,
>" 17th and 103 th demi-brigades, the 20th regiment *"
! 3 of chafleurs, and a detachmcnt»from the 3d regi
ie merit of hufTars, commanded by citizcn Donadieu,
!C severely wounded at Hnfielach.
II " I hope foori to announce to you that the ene- th
my has been entirely expelled from the Brifgauand fr<
the banks of the Necker. m
. " 1 have just nhw received a letter from general
>- Joardan, whiGh apprises me of his entrance into <3
r - Frankfort. " M
" The general in chief. ds
« « Signed, MOREAU." in
je Letter from MorSau, general in chief, todhe Ek
ecutive Directory. f 0
lis " Head-Quarters at Baden, he
al "29 Meffidor, July 17. o'
ie, *f Citizens Directors,
n- " 1 have received your two letters of the 25th
ir- Meffidor, July 13. My reports on the operations
a of the arciy outfit to convince you that 1 have not
of lolt fight of yonr jjlaß. Thin day's report apprises
r<r 'yo« of mere Mi of a movement which you com
e- ißandcd 011 the Upper Rhi::e. It has been some-
tit whit flow. This is owing to the re union of the 5
forces which I had ordered on this party, who had D
almoit all been obliged to go down the Rhine to the B
jcjdjvehl, and afterwards to return, the floods render- ~
ctl 1 navigation impoffiblf. [,
ral " I hnve received the letters which you have -
in- written to fever al officers of the army, communicat
he ing to them your approbation of their conduit,
eir ' «« J cannot too often repeat, that the affair of
ics Ettingen isone of the most glorious of the war.—
Ja- The gallantry and admirable disposition of general
he St. Cyr, contributed greatly to the fucccfs.
>0- " Health and refpeft, s
ni- «' MOREAU."
ed —
ers ARMY OF IT JIT.'
iat Extrsit of a letter from general com
ny mander in ch'ief of the army of Italy, totheEx
-ICy ecutive Directory.
[jj c ' "• Head Quarters at Milan t
" 26 Mi'ffidor, July 14. j
in. " A monk arrived from Trente, brings informa-
that the Auftrians had parted >
> Adigc, raised tl* blockade of Mantua, nnd were
advancing by forced matches into Romania. Sedi
tious writings and fanayc preaehets every where ex- 1
cite infurrcftion. They oigaaifed in a few days
nd what they called I'Armee Catholique et Papal.—
They eftablifhcd their head-quarters atLugo,a large
towu of legation at Ferrara, though fituatcd in Ro
mania.
" Gcntral Asgereau gave orders to Pourailliers, t
ate chief of the brigade, to attempt the reduction of e
, a Lugo. This ufficer, at the head of a battalion, <
ne. arrived before this town, where the tocftn founded 1
>nt fevcrafhours. They found there some thoufan'ds
jve of peasants.
:u- "An officer ®f grenadiers advanced to parley
with them. They made (igns to him to come for*
the ward, and the next moment he was assailed by a a
volley of musket (hot. Thcfe wretches, as cow
, 1 Hrdly as treacherous, fled. Some hundreds were
to- left dead ob the spot,
by " Since this event, which happened on the 18th
Meffidor (July 6) order has been restored, and all
n a is now pc rfeCtly tranquil:
or- (Signed) « BUDNAPARTE." '
the PARIS, July 27. j
by Mandatj, which have fallen within these few days
in- to 3 livres 10 sous, yesterday role to 5 livres 12
he foiis.
ir.s The official news of the capture of Rheinfelden,
the firflforeft town belonging to the Emperor, has
to- this moment been received. Our troops have a!fo
las taken poffirffien of Scckingen, which has furren
to dered by capitulation to the troops that crossed tlie
as Rhine at Heningen. This city has delivered up
3iu two field pieces which the Aultriairs were obHged to '
he abandon. These guns have been brought to Rhein
ips feldcn, where they were found by General Lahorde '
he This official letter announces that our ttoops occu- j
py at this moment a fine country, in which there is (
nr. a rich and abundant harvest: it adds that this cour
rai trv will br inexhiuftitle ia refourccs if well mmn«>
get]. Trie inhabitants are dth'ght-d in leeiojf that
iftir troops entered as friends, neighbours and brtf»
thrca. They wil! pay the contributions with plea*
furc, and wilt f-ipply requisitions of wheat, hay,
oats. See.
The desertion of the regiment of Bends*' 13 also
officially announced—this regiment is almaft anni»
hilated.
On the 30th Meffidot, July 18, the light cavalry
being on a rcConiioitet ing party, fell in with the
enemy's huflars a league above LaufTeiibourg : four:
pillol shots were exchanged. Besides the upptr
Margtaviate of Baden, our troops occupy tiic ta
red towns of Rheiafclden ai'd seckingrit, and du
ring the day, Lauffenbourg, aud riie whole of tlie
Friecktat.
W< arc assured that tbe French are in MmheiTi,
and that a commissioner has arrived at Basle from
the Emperor, to make overtures of peace to our
Ai"t>a(Tad«r.
The two armies of Moreati and Jourdan hate
• cftablifhed a communication with each other.
> The Duke of Wirtemberg, by the articles of
' th# suspension of hollilities is obliged to pay to
France four millions—to fvirnifh 4000 borfes, fomc
thousand oxen, and ammunition. He has wi'.a
---1 drawn his troops from the Aullrian army.
BATAVJAN REPUBLIC.
I Hague, July 9.
It it Well known to have been refotved. that our
p Grand Fleet should not have failed from the Texel, tiii
the Divjfion fromHelvoetflnys and Fluihingfhouid hav~
joined it. Tire latter therefore, confiding of a frigate
: of 44 guns, and four of(\tr fma'.ler faips of war, failed
• ®n the 14th infi. from the Scheldt. On the 16th,this
-1 division fe'l in with a large English man of war, wJtick
r immediately gave chafe. Ihe 4 smaller armed vefleir
' immediately failed back to the Scjheldt. The frigate
was obliged tofuftain a warm a«slion, but'flic fortunate*
ly got from herfuperior enemy, and reaihed the har
bour of Helvoetfluys, though very much damaged.—
General Bounionville has now forbidden the guard of
s Burghers of Utrecht all military service, and Wen: as
.l terw£-d3 to the heath of Gorfcl, between Deventer and
Zutpheo, where his hesd-quaricrs now are. General
j D-utndeU who has been recalled with his corps front
Cleve;, has his head quarters at Nimcgueifc
'* ■> , it
t ~ ■■■ 1 ■IMMUBMiTM linn 1 1 .
New-York, September 29.
FAIR AMERICAN.
A London Paper of the 2d of August, mention*
that the Ship Fair American, Capt. Goodrich,
d from London for this port, went ashore near Ports*
mouth, bilged, and filled with water.
'■I In the fti:p Fanny, capt. Braine, arrived yeSer
-0 day, came 30 passengers. The ftip Oliif, eapt,
M'Lachlan, failed tfilh the Fanny. The Amfttr
dam Packet, capt. Henderfon, was to fail the ift
inftaat.
£3" A stated meeting of the Pennsylvania Society
for promoting the Abolition of Slavery, &c. will be
held at the ufnal place on the 3d "of Oftobt*, at 6
o'clock In the evening' Benjamin Kits, Stec'ry.
9th mo. 30th, 1796
h V, '
,t iT'UCKS.
-Six-pcrecirt. - 17/j -V
Three f>cr Cent. , io j ; / ; nt(
"" 4i percent. T 4/ f eft".
Ie si per Cent. ... lift,)
id Deferred Six per Cent. - • tyf,
, e BANK I'nirtd States, » • <• 19 to 20 pi-ct.
Psnnfylvania, . » . . 16 to 17
—" North America, - - - - 45 tD 46
Insurance CiVr.p. North-America, 37 1-2 per ccnt. adv.
— Pennsylvania, par to a pre-cent. adv.
l " COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
0 f On London, at 30 days, per £.100 fieri, 'par.
— t — L at 60 days, par to 162 i-j
, at 90 days, 161 i 162 1-2
31 Amsterdam, 60 dayj, per . guilder, 42
—— 96 days, 40
This Day is Published,
And Soid hy J. ORMROD, No. 41, Chef nut-
Jirect, and WILLIAM COBBETT, ofipo/itt
Chrij Church,
Price only 45 ccfits,
, Watforis Letters to Gibbon, or
An Apology for Chriftiaaity,
,' a " In a series of Letters,
ed AddreHed to Edward Gibbon, Esq. author of the Hilto
tc ry of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire,
jj. By R. WATSON, D. X). F. R. S.
, x _ Lord Bilhop of Landaff, and'RegiUs ProfelTor of Divinity
' in th« UhivcrEty of Cambridge.
LiJtrwife, a Second Edition of
~ An Apology for the Bible,
0 . By the fame celebrated Divine.
Price 31 i-z cents.
These Pamphlets are printed to match, so thai
rs > they may be bound together—and contain the moil pow
of erful arid convincing arguments ever advanced in favor
in, of Christianity ; together with a complete refutation of
c( j Deilm and Infidelity.
rds W. C. HAS JUST PUBLISHED,
The Political Censor for September ;
ley CONTAINING
or- The Lift of Thomas Paine,
8 And Remarks on the Pamphlets lately
published agaihft Peter Porcupine.
September 30. mwf
ail For B oft on,
The Schowr JO H N,
<^gr..y^.«}P". <|| A constant ttafder, Peter Coffin, master,
lyin,' at Mr. Varlusem'i wherf, will fail in all next week.
For Fr«ight or pillage apply to the Captain on board or t«
'>" s Edward Stow, jun.
Who has r'teived by the above velTel,
, n Some excellent Pickled Salmon,
' antl & few quintals of the
Very best kind of Dumb Filh.
, n . September ;.o d 9
tt, e ~ Mr. FRANCIS,
up ' {Of the New Theatre)
Ito '"pAKES this opportunity of returning thanks to his
J. • frholars and to the public. Mr. Francis intends,
i!e on his return from Maryland, to open a public a: a
demy for dancing, upon a plan entirely new. H?
Cl !" flatters himl'elf that his attenflon to his pupils h't
slß therto renders any promifesjjf condufling his future
schemes on the molt liberal and ftriftcft terms, of p o*
u- Drietar. rotallv utpHHRNHBiBOOKS in SHEETS,
Late (he prnp;rty of ISAAC NEALE, printer,
dice/tjej, und for sale by Henry Kammeakr, £
jun. surviving partner, No. 24, North Third
Jlreet, at 50 per cent, discount from the retail pri- A
"s for cash or approved notes at 30 and 60 days.
1 RURAL Economy; or an efTay on the practical parts of I
huftandry, Bvo. 299 pages, 7s. 6d.
s. Travels of Cyrus, (a handsome edition) 19mo. 352 "pages,
7s. 6d.-
3. Calvary; or the death of Christ, (an elegant edition on
fine paper) 1 amo. ~300 pages, 7s. 6s.
4. Hiflory of the Clergy, during the French revolution,
tsrno. 40® pages, 7s. 6d.
5. Miscellanies, moral and inftm&ive, in prose and verse,
I 2mo. 198 pages, 3s. gd: ' d
. 6. Select ftorics, from the celebrated works of M» Berquin. e,
i2mo. acß pages, 3s. gd.
7. Fowcr of grace illustrated, i2mo. 142 pages, 3s. 9<l.
8. Ladies literary companion, lS's, 152 pagas,
g. Yorick's letters to Eliza, iß's, 62 pages, is. 6d.
JO* Sportsman's companion ; or an essay ton shooting, lSts,
62 2s. 9 d*. .
11. jovial companion; or a library of good humour, mirth
and entertainment; being a cheice colle&ion of modern
songs, with an eugraved frontifpiece, i2ino. 114 pages,
28. gd{*
12. Medley; or Philadelphia songster, i2mo. 222 pages,
3s. 9 d.
*3. Feast of merrimfnt; Or new American jeltcr, 12 mo.
132 pages, 2s. 9 dJ.
J 4. The new American jester; or magaztne of humour, 2
a9mo. 96 pages, is. iod^.
15. Jovial songster, iß's, nd.
16. Dodfley'® fables from German) With 150 cats, a
I a mo. 214 3s. o<l.
Also, the following Children 1 s BOOKS, _
adorned with cuts. £
' i. 'The Englilh H6rmit; or the adventures of Philip Quarle,
3 dollars per 100 infheets.
2. Sinbad the sailor, 8 dollars dcr. do.
3. New Year and Christmas tales, 8 dollars do. do. V
4 r Goody Two Shoes, 5 dollars do. do.
5. History of Weafls, 4 dollars do. do.
6. History of birds, 4 dollars do. do.
7. The mountain piper, 3 dollars do. do. ir
8. Journey from Philadelphia to New-York, gdol. do. do.
9. King Pippin, 3 dollars do. do* c<
10. Jacky Idle and Dicky Diligent, 3 dollars do. do. 1T
11. New Year"s gift, 2 dollars do. do. fc
12. Louisa and her birds, 2 dollars do. do. et
13. The bird cage, 2 dollars do. do.
14. Primers (New-England) 3 dollars do. do.
//. Karn merer, jun. has also for ftlf,
large variety of METAL CUTS, handfomcly.
engraved, which he will dispose of very low for cefh.
Sept. 28. ' §3t.
North-Carolina—Hilljborvugh DiJlriß,
-COURT OF EQUITY, April term, 1796. T
John Willcox's heirs at law, n
versus T
Archibald Mactaine, James Morris, and others. C]
TN 'his cause the death of James Morris being suggested,
J. as also the deaths of Phoebe Morris and Martha Mifflin, d
other defendants—leave is given to file a bill of revivor.t<
But it is ordered, that the complainants firft give fecurky for 11
the cods. Oil the complainant's giving security for the celts, all
and filing the bill of revivor, it is ordered, that publica
tion be made in Fenno's Philadelphia Gazette for the space 0
of one week, and alfe that publication be made in Hodge's
North Carolina Journal* for the space of two Weeks, that
unless the defendants put iij their answers on or before the t j
third day of the ensuing term, to wit, O&ober terra, a. o.
1796, that then the said bill will betaken, pro confesso
against the defendants so failing, and a decree made accord
ingly. F
I certify, that the complainants have given fccurity for
the tofts agreeably to the above : and I also certify the above
to be a true copyof he minutes. W. WALTERS, Clerk, "
Sept. 26. and mafterflin said court.
Loft this Morning, t]
Joseph Thomas's note in favor of, and indorfedby Jo Jin
Morton, for twenty two-hundred dollars, dated the 28th
inft. payable at 60 days fight. All persons are forwatned
againil receiving the said note, as payment is Hepped, and j.
it therefore can be of 110 use to any person but the lubfcri-
ber, who will thank the finder for delivering.it to him at
No. 116 South Front Street, or if required a rcafonable re-
ward will'be paid.
John Morton.
9th mo 38th, 1796. *3t.
Wanted to Rent,
A convenient, welt furnifhed Bed Chamber, ~
With a good fire-place, in an airy and healthy part of .
the city. The person wh© wants to rent such a chamber,
would have no objc&ion to board, or breakfaft only, with ,
the family occupying the house, as may be moll agreeable. a
Apply to the printer. (
September 29. taw
Sales of India Goods.
The Cargo «f the ship Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cal
cutta and Bengal,
CONSISTING OF
ALarn-e and general affortmep.t of Bengal and Madras
COTTON and SILK GOOdS.
among which are
A variety fine worked and plain Mujl'tru,
Doreas, EsV. Also,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
In boxes and, baga—and BLACK PEPPER,
For Sale by
Willings Francis,
No. a I Penn Street.
Jv.n« 8 ' §
For Sale,
A Three flory BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut
street, between Front and Second ftrcets, in which
Messrs. james-Calbraith &Co. have for many years (and
now do) carried on business.
PolTeffion will be given in one month, or sooner.
For terms apply to WILLIAM BEI.L, or
HECTOR CALBRAJTH.
April ai. S
Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE.
No. 63 South Third ftreet,■oppofite the national new Bank.
SAMUEL M FRAUNCES and JOHN. VAN REED, :
hare entered into co-partnership, under the firm of '
FROUNCES & VAN RUED, in the bufinef* of Brokers, '
Conveyancers and Commifljon merchant j. They buy and '
fell on commiflion every fpecics of flock, notes of hand, '
bills of exchange, houses aud land', &c.
procured on deposits, &c. See. all kinds c'
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatnefsanri
dispatch ; accounts adjußcd, and books^fettled, in the
sioli correct manner. Constant attendance will be given
They folidt a fharc of the public favor ; they are deter
mined to endeavour to defcrve it.
£i. B. The utmofl lecrecy observed. 1
SAMUKL M. fRAUN'CES,
• JOHN VAN REED.
Philad. Aiipift 17, 1796. m&wtf <
W A N T E D,
An AP f R AA' 7 ICE to tfic Prirting Business.
Enquire atthis Office. • * "
wi#v« »7* ~ * |
JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co.
• No. 8, CHESNUT STREET,
Hsve Imported in the late veiTets frem Europe, &c.
AND HAVE LOR SALE, d)
A general assortment of GOODS, suitable to tlte fcafon— a
Amongst which are,
BROAD and narrow CLOTHS,
Plain and twili'd COATINGS,
Rose ftriptd and point BLANKETS,
FLANNELS and BAISES,
HATS assorted in cases,
IRISH LINENS, "
INDIA GOODS, generally,
A Config»ed Invoice of IRONMONGERY, 11
Comprifmg a capital assortment to open aftore—inelu-
ding Thirty Calks of NAILS. This invoice will be fold
eptire on very advantageous terms. -
September 20. d
Lottery £
FOR railing fix thousand fix hundred and sixty-seven
dollars and fifty cents, by a 4eduction of fifteen per
cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a prize, viz
I Prize of 5060 dollars is dollars 500s
I 1000 1000
i s°e> s°o
5 200 ' lOCO
SO too 2000
99 50 4950
aoo , 2 j J 000
2600 10 10,000
5 Last drawn ncmbers ef icoc dollars each, 5000
2331 Prizes. 44,450
4018 Blanks.
6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44,450
By order of the Diredors of the Socicty for eftablifli
ing WefulManufacJlures, the fuperintendants of the Pat
erfon Lottery hive requested the Managers to offer the _
foregoing S«heme to the public, and have directed them
to refund the money to those persons who have purchased
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
in this Lottery.
The lottery has actually commenced dfawing, and will
continue until finifhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
may be seen at the office of William Blackburn, No. 64 j
south Second street, who willgiveinformationwh'eretick- .
ets may be procured.
Dated this-i 7th day of- *
J. N- CuMMING, )
JACOB R. HARDENBERG, {Managers.
JONATHAN RHEA, ) v
dtf eo j
- —
Samuel Rjchardet, i'
RESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
Merchants, that he his this Jay opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEE HOUSE in the A
city of Philadelphia;
The Subscription Room will be furnifbed with all the w
daily papers publiffied in Philadelphia, Bos-
ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com
mercial cities of Europe—They will be regularly filed (c
aind none permitted to be taken away on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety n!
of French Liquors; together yirith the usual refrefhments,
will at all times be procured at the bar. ''
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
thechoiceftof Wines, Spirituous Liquors, aiid the most "
approved Malt Liquors from London and other breweries.
The Larder will be supplied with the prime and earliest 31
productions of the Season. oi
Large and small Farties, or single Gentlemen, may be n:
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
honrs most convenient to themselves—a cold Collation is ''
regularly kept for conveniency, the Bill of Fare to be had
at 016 liar. *
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifhed, and
the utmost attention paid to cleanliness, and every other f'
requisite. j«
gj" Samuel Richardet will behappy to receive, and
ectecute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at C
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges J}
himfelf that nothing on his part shall be wanting to pre-' $
serve that patronage with which he has been so distinguish- c:
ingly l'ionor.:d. 1 tl
Philadelphia, April 19. mwf
Treasury of the United States. o
NOTICE is hereby given to all persons who are or C
may be Creditors of the United States, for any funis
of the Funded Deit, or Stock, icjring a frc/c.u mtcrcjt of fix
per centum per annum.
ift, That pursuant to an Aft of Congress pafled on the
28th day of April, 1796, intitledan a<ft in addition to an A
aft, intituled " An ac 4 making fuither provision for the
support of public credit, and for the redemption of the
public debt," the said debt or ftockwill fee reiirburfed and
paid in manner following,to wit. " First, by dividends
" to be made on the last days of March, June aniseptem- A
" ber for the present year, and from the year one thousand
•' seven hyndred and ninety-seven, to the year one thou- £
" sand eight hundred & eighteen incluive, at the rate of •
" one and one half per centum upon the original capital.
" Beeond!r, by dividrrris to be 111 a.de or. tbe UP- —of
" for the present year, and fkom the year one
" thousand seven hundred .and ninety-* yen,'to the year
" one thousand eight hundred and feveateen inclusive, at si
" the rate of three and one cei turn upon the ori- _
" (final capital; and by a dividend to be ma !c'oa the last
" day of December, in the yeat'one thjufand eight hun
" dred and eighteen, of such sum, as will be then ade- r
" quate, according to the contrail", for the final redemp
" tion of the said flock." n
2d. All diftinflion between payments on account, of
Interefi and Principal being thus aboliftied by the establish- a
ment of the permanent rule of reimburfemeut above de- f
scribed, it:has become necessary to vary acc®rdingly .the <■
powers of attorney for receiving dividends; the "public
creditors will .therefore observe that the following form
is eftablilhed for all powers of attorney which may be
granted after the due promulgation of this notice, viz.
KNOW ALL MEN Br THESE PRESENTS, tUat
I »/
do make, tonfiitute aid appoint J
of mi true audlanful jft' 11
torney,for me, etndin my name, to receive the dividends which tre, *
or Jball be payabti according to taiv, oh the (here describing the £
stock) sanding in my name in the booh of (here describing the' '
books of the Treal'ury or the Commiflioncr of Loans,
where the stock is credited) from (here insert the com- v
mencement and expiration of time fur which the power of 1
attorney is to continue) fvith power also an attorney or attor- *'
nies under him, forthat purpose to male and fnbjlitute,andto do all '
lawful a£ls requifitefor effecting thepremijh, b : chy ratifying and '
confirming all that my said Attorney or hisfuif!Uutr,JSiU lawful- 11
ly do, by virtue hereof. . .
In Witness hereof, I have hereunto set my Hand and Seal the
day of in the \ear
Sealed and Delivered
in pr'fencLof,
BE IT KNOWN,that on She Jay of
efore meperfonally came
within named and ackr.tnt'leJjred the above letter of attorney to be f
bis a£i and dt/ed.
In tejiimony whereof I have hereunto set my Hand and affix- j
td Seal the day and year last afor said. c
Given under my Hand at Philadelphia, this twen- j
ticth day of July 1796; pursuant to directions {
from the Secretary of the Treasury
SAMUEL MEREDITH, f
Treafurtr of the United Statu. 1
\ w&it I y.
w- v -
Turks-Island Salt,
FOR SALE,
Per the ship American, Capt. Shallcrofs—Will be rea
dy to discharge at Pine-street wharf on the 2.7 th inll.— *
Apply to tv
Jehu HoMingfworth hf Co. a
Sept. 43. mwf to
A Manufactory FOR SALE.
A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufactory, fuuate
in a convenient part of the city ; the works almost new,
on an entirely original conftry&ion, and built of the best
materials, and may be set to work immediately. Pecfons
whowifhto purchase, are requcfted to apply at No. 273,
South Second Street,
September 13. tt f tf
City of Washington.
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11,
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT 0 t THE
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent 20,600 dollars, &
dwelling-house, 5 calh 30,000, arc 5 0,000
r dittq 15,000 & cafo 45,000 40,000
I ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
I ditto 10,000 & cash 10,000
I ditto 5,000 & ca(h 5,000 10,000 nc
I ditto 5,000 & ca(fc 5,000 10,000
1 ta(h prize of 10,000 d r
' 4 do. 5,000 each, are « , 10,000 th
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,000
jo do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. 100 - • 10,000
400 do. 50 - - 10,000
400 do. 4j - 10,000
1,000 do. 40 5 40,000
15,000 do. 10 • • 750,000
1?,739 Prizes. _
33,161 Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. To favour those whs may take a quantity of
Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the last drawn >
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one :
- And approval notes, fcf vrr!.*i:r incitm-r mousy
or prizes, in ten days atter drawing, will be received for
any number not less than 30 tickets. '
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of the pri
vate buildings to be ere&ed in the City of Washington—
Two beautiful designs are already selected for the entire —
fronts on two of the public squares; from these prawings
it ispropofed to erect two centre and four c orner buildings,
as soon as possible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
theni, when complefc, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery.
A nett dedudlion of five per cent, will be made to defray X
the necessary expenses of printing, &c. and the surplus \
will be made a part of the fund intended for the National OT]
University, to be creeled within the city of Washington. a H
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are an
fold off.—The money prizes will be payable in thirty days l ar
after it is finifhad ; and any prizes for which fortunate fto
numbers are not produced within twelve months after the d 0
drawing is closed, are to be confidcred as given towards n y
the fund for the University; it being determined to fettle
the whole bufmefs in a year from the ending of the draw- 0 v
ing, and to take up the bonds given as security. w j
The real securities given for the payment of the Prizes, ar i
are held by the President and two Directors of the Bank Cc
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a- bi'
mount of the lottery. in.
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of i s
the late Commiflioners aflifted in the management of the pa
Hotel Lottery are requcfted to undertake this arduous talk m ;
- a fucuud tiimrun behalf w! ilie'pnbli'L ;cr Ititlicleirc rnirn (Jy
ber of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the an
friends to a National University and the other federal ob- l a (
je&s may continue to favor the design. ba.
By accounts received from the different parts of the ho
Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets th<
have been sent for sale, the public are allured that the in
* Hifawing will speedily commence, and that the care and go
taution unavoidably necessary to insure a fafe disposal of roi
the tickets, has rendered the short fufpe.nfion indifpenfabfc. ma
SAMUEL BLODGET.
Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; o At
James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter Gilman, Boston
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells 1
Cooper's Ferry. eo '
Wats ox's Answer to Gibbon.
JUST RECEIVED, .
And for laic by J. ORMROD, No. 41, Chefriut-ftreet, £
Apology for Christianity, 5°
In a feriet of Letters, addrejjed to ho
Edward Gjbbon, £ht
Author of the History of the Decline and Fall of the ott
Roman Empire: ani
By R. WATSON, d. d. f. r. s. Bishop of Landaff. on .
' b (Price 75 cents bound.)
Watson's Antker to. Paine T
To be had at the fame place.- —~
The enemies of Religion are awake ! Let not her
friends jleep.
Sept. 1. . mw&ftf
.
NOTICE. „
THE Subscriber, having been reduced in bis circum
itailct s, by sundry misfortunes, and being thereby ly
nuable to fatisfy his just debts, hereby gives notice to his wi
Creditors and to all pcrfons concerned, that hi intends to ve
apply to the General Affcmbly of Maryland at their next
feflion to be held on the firft Monday of November nest,
for the benefit of an a<st of insolvency.
WILLIAM EDMONDSON
Eafton, ift of the 9th month, 1796. lawtiftMN ■>
To be fold, (
A PLANTATION, in thetown of Woodbury, coun- -
ty 6f Gloucester, and il'ate of New-Jersey, contain- nc
ing about one hundred and fifty acres; a suitable propor
tion of whieh is woodland and improved meadow. A ] a ,
. great part of the arable land is in a high state of cultiva- cr
tion, and very natural to the production of Red Clover. or
On said plantation there is a genteel two-Hory brick house, 0 f
with four rooms on a floor, and a good dry cellar under ar
r the whole ; together with a barn, corn-cribs and carriage- fp
hsufe, The garden is large, and contains a good collec cs
f tion of the best kinds of grafted and inoculated fruit trees ; U i
I the orchard of about three hundred grafted app!e- n )
. trees. Any perfem inclined io-purchale said premises, may v<
be informed ef the terms by applying^to
ANDREW HUNTER. ei
July 49 H vi
— c(
To be Sold,
' T
At No. 128, North Second-Street, and by several oj
tbe Apothecaries in this City.
TRANSFERS of the right to remove pains and inflamma
tions from the human body, as secured to Dr. ELISHA
PERKINS, by patent, with mftruments and direst ions ne- 1
ceflary for the practice. This mode of treatment is particu
" larly tifeful in relieving pains in the head, face, teeth, breast, E
s Tide, ftotnach, back, rjicumatifms, recent gouts, &cc. &c.
I Notwithstanding the utility of this practice, it is not prc
-1 fumed but there are cases in which thU and every other
I xemedy may fomctinjts fail.
\ June t j law
J