I (iajettt »/<& Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
- ' , XVOLVMR X.
I. 3 m£SDjr — r TT^^^WR^r,
— /vxt Tirvr » J uu AIT . ' _ r.-T,,„«T;J Lindine at Cliffords Wharf, from on board the brig
*■ J .
R OSS & SIMSON, 11
EXCELLENT FOURTH PROOF.
Jamaica Spirits; M rc
And to drfpofe br, j ie w j
The fine, faft-fai ing fchooaer
iMzW&r S W ALLOW, so,
JSlaßal!E-i> Of Baltimore, about 140 .oni burtTien. ®"
! . - — - —- So"
FOR SALE, Ba
fU. The Ihip STAR, £
1* John Vanneman, Matter, Da
T TING at Wahnrt-ftr«et wharf, Phila*el- Sil
I 1 phiihuUt, of li.ve oak and cedar, will Ti
farry about 3wo barrels, is two years old, and in com- Ui
ulca- ordef to receive a cargo—For terras apply t0 y
pica orpcr THOS. & JOHN KETLAND. In
Who have also for sale said vessels cargo—confiding of—
Wine and Porter bottles,
Wind.,w G'.afs, 6by 8 to 16 by la.
Pipes in boxes. Mef]
Earthen-Ware in crates.
Grindstones, Coala. Whiting, tu. p (
Aug. »9 __— —
t or Charter *;
70 THE II'EST-INDIES,
j—a The Snow HOPE,
Capt. Rindge, row ready for a eargo,
will carry 2000 barrel. If not engag
cd in five da V ! > will take frei g ht for
Boston and Portland.
For terms apply to
Samuel Breck, jun.»
Rofs's Wharf.
• 4> & Where may be had,
A quantity of 80/ ion D,uck, Nos. i Iff 2.
AUg. 26.
FOR SALE. J
The Brig PUNCH,
entire new veflel, built, 'finifhed and fitted
in the bell manner. One hundred and thirty fiy -p
tons burthen, and will fail remarkably fact. For I
terms apply to Mr. N. Sage, at the Geor S e tavern, wh
. or t0 JOSEPH ANTHONY & Co.
j4ugufli6, i?9 6 - £"?'... Th
UNITED STATES, 7 Sa [ ,
Pennsylvania Drsrsicr, 3 J'-'
XN pursuance of a Writ to me dircited from the Honour- l'f
able Richard Peters, Esquire, Judge of the Dlftrift
I ' ' Court of the United States for the Pcnnfylvama Diftria,
Will be exposed to Public Sale, _
At the Merchants'Coffee-Houfe, in the City if Philadel
phia, on Monday, the 29th day of August, instant, at 1 i
The SLOOP called the
Rebecca, #
With lingular her tackle, appa- I
rel and Furniture, as the fame now are ; the said sloop 1
ha vino- been condemned, to pay Mariners' xvages, &c. I
' WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marshal. I
Marshal's Office, 19th August, 1796- . . .
For Sale or Charter, * -
\ THE SNOW
BOSTON, -L
% [R'l HEN "bout iooo Bbls. of flour—(he may be fer.t to
sea jt a small expence, her Ms and rigging being in el
j cry good order—apply to
fames Campbell, or o ;
Gesrge Latimer. t>
April 29, T
For Sale or Charter, ['
THE FAST-SAILING SHIP y
LIGHT-HORSE, ;
. LYING at Mess. J. & R Wain's wharf, {
t hundred and seventy tons burthen, a (lout, strong t
vi *<-1, and well found. For terms apply to i
Joseph Anthony & J
Fpr Sale, <
Or for Charter to the Weft-Indies,
THE 511 IP
Mi CERES,
Philadelphia Built,
~F Live Oat and Red Cedar, burthen about 3500 baj'- ,
* re l s> now discharging at Latimer's wharf. I'his vel- ,
«in excellent repair, well fouud and will bear a tho
■ r'.rh examination, andasfoon as discharged will be lea
o take in a cargo. For terms apply to
lohn Vauehan.
ily 28 §
t
At South-ftr.cet wharf,
WILL BE LANDED, Friday, 19th inft. August,
by Cnow Hope, from Jamaica, and sloop Sally,
from Port-au-Prince,
300 Hhds. COFFEE,
70 Hhds. SUGAR.
■Also, the cargo of the Swedish brig Gujlaf Adolphe
cupt. Rarrfre, from Gibraltar,
tfl and 4tij proof Brandy, in pipes and hhds.
Hazle Nuts in sacks
St. Übes SALT, far sale by
PETER BLIGHT.
-J— 6 * For Charter,
T he said brig
j Gugtaf Adolphe,
t? A Swede, with a Mediterranean pass,
a very fine vefiel, about 200 tons bur
then. . Aug. 18. $2weo2w
"wanted,
A STORE and Cellar or Compting houCt and Cellar,
for the Wholcfale and Dry Good bufineCf. Enquire
at No. 129 Arch-street. < ,
For Sale at the above place-,
$00 Boxes Window Glass, 8 by 10, 7 by 9, See.
SCo Cream Cheefo in the bed order, imported from
Holland, and entitled to drawback. Enquire of
Peter Borger,
Aug 16 2»V3 w
Win. HOLDERNESSE,
No. 76 High Street,
' T TAS received, by the latest arrivals from Europe and 501
rl the Indies, a well felefted assortment of Silk n
Mercery, Linen Drapery and Goods; which An
he will fell, Wholcfale and Retail, 011 theloweft terms ;
amongst which are, On b
Some fine India muslins embrou'-Ered with gold and lflver
Siiperfi&f Bocijt, Jaconet, aad Mulmul ditto
Do do . . do Handkerchiefs
Some extra colored Ay
Bandano Handkerchiefs
Long and (hort Nmkeens
EogfiOi Mantuas of the firft quality
Damask table linen and napkins, very fine
I- SilkHofiery, an elegant alTortment
11 Thead and cotton do _
i- Umbrellas silk, oil'd do. and do cloth
French cambrics, very fine
Iriih Linens, do. &c. June T 4 ;>
For Sale, /
A Three story BRICK HptTSE and Lot, in Chefnut
street, between Front and Second streets, in which
MeiTra. James Calbraith & Co. have for many years (and f -pj
now do) carried on business. \ 5
PolTeflion will be given in one month, of fooncr.
For terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, <>r§ ar.ee
HECTOR CALBRAITH. po | e .
April ai. V c?
kept
FOR SALE,
WINE, London particular Mddeira, 4 years old,
0> in pipes and hogfhead'.
Ciaret, genuine old, in cases
° r Gin> in pipes, from Holland
Earthen Ware, in orates
Balket Salt, in hogfheada
Shot, Nos. 6, 7, 1 and 9
BarLeadi Red and white dry lead
Steel, German and Russia, in barrels
2 Anchors, cables, junk, bunting, tai polin canvas,
Tin olatcs—An invoice Stationary, by
_ P THOMAS & JOHN KETLAND.
Inly 19 y —
ELEPHANT.
This Animal is to be seen in High-Street, between
ed ( j ]e c f en t) ] a nd the Eleventh-Street.
f'y TTE willpofitively leave Philadelphia the tenthot Sep- j or
'or XI tember, for Baltimare, in his way to Ch irleftori,
rn. where he will vvin-er.
ADMIITANCE Half a Dollar—quarter of a Dollar "1
The PANORAMA, or the VIEW of the CIUES of ofS
LONDON and WESTMINSTER, ; Car
Is to be open till the 10th of September, afld the sub- ol I
ject will then be removed tp Baltimore with the EL*--
1 HAN DMn . rANCE for the PANORAMA, ,f n '
One quarter of a Dollar.
Augrnt 3. - ? .
French Goods.
Received by the Sally, Mitchell, from Havre d e -
Grace, qu
20 Trunks 7 Ll(iies ' SHOES of all colors forts-and sizes
I Cafe j
•>na- 1 Ditto white and colored Silk STOCKINGS
loop I TJlttoTjie I.AWN
r t I Dittobtfft fine CAMBRIC
1 t Ditto Ladies' befl ftiammy and Grenoble Gloves
■ For Sale by THOMAS 3c JOHN KETLAND. W
AUg. 24 ' ()
A very valuable Merchant Mill, r-
A DISTILLERY and BREWERY, andfundry STONE
QUARRIES .0 be let K
I will rent my mei chant Mill at the little Falls Of Po w
sent towmac, for'any term not Ufs than seven, nor more than
i',i elefcu years, from thejfirll day of September next. The _
mi'il-faoufo i»42 by 40 'eet, three ftorics high, built with t}
ftnne, and has in it three pairs of French Burr Stones, tw6
1 overshot 18 feet water-wheels, and Evans's machinery _
tomplcte, with every otl)er thing prop«r and necessary for
§ carrying on the business with dispatch, and at as little ex-
penfc as poflible, all in good order.—From the mill to my
landing cr.i the Potomac river, (whtre craft, of any bur
then deliver grain and take in flour) it is about 40 31
yards, and from thence by water ti> George-Town and
the City ps Washington, about 3 miles, and to Alexan- »
dria about 11 miles. This aided,by a fufficient Is
larf ' capital, will command the produce of a very cxtonfive
trong back country, where large quantities of wheat and other
grain is annually made, the. distance to it being from 8
), to so miles less than to any market town upon the navi
', rS the Potowmac. Tbete are on the yrcmifcs a J
■ large ltonS iip.TTtone granary, and a commo
dious miller's house. At the landing aforefaid a bridge
is now building over the Potomac, yrhich is in great for
' wardncfs and probably will be finilhcd the ensuing fall. r
There are alfij on the prcmifes, a Brewery and Distille
ry, built with Hone, in them are three Hills, two coppers
or boilers, with every necessary article, all new, and in ,
good order, and fufficiently large to carry on the Brew- '
0 baj - c ry and Distillery upon a very extensive plan. This prap
is vel- erty I will rent for the fame term of years.
1 tho- Upon my lands adjoining the premiies, and along the '
e lea- banks of the river, where craft may lead with cafe and dis
patch, is an immense qiantny of building and icunda
. tion-ftones. F our quarries are now open, and as many J
* more'may be opened with ease : the stone taken from these J
§ quarries is'better, and has the preference at this market, .
' to any other stone brought to it. I will rent these quarries '
separately or together as may btft suit.
On the top of the hill, and about 200 yards fron* the
uguft, mill, is a stone Dwelling-house, large enough for the ac- !
Sally, commodation of a family : also, akitcheA, daity, smoke
house, &c. and a garden, enc:ofed and in cultivation, the J
1 foi of which is equal in goodness to any in this state. I ;
will also rcßt this property. (
Adjoining to the Brewery and Distillery is a Smith's
olphe (bop, in which is a complete set of Biackfmith's tools, \
which 1 will also rent, and if agreeable I will hire to the
s. tenant two negro blacksmiths, one of them is a complete
workman. • \
11 I rent out the stone quarries, I will fell three crafts,
which were built for the purpose of carrying stone : they
will altogether bring upwards of 90 perch. Immediate
poficflion will be given. For terms apply to thefublcrib
er in this town.
J The Mill, Brewery and Distillery, with their appurten
'- - ances, will be daliverad to the tenant or tenants in good
' repair, and must be so returned, at the expiration of -the
U "" lease or leases.
IW PHILIP RICHARD FENDALL.
Alcmodria, Aug. 16—
>nar. • To befojd,
squire Q n Twelve Months Credit,
• If applied for immediately,
One Hundred Thouland Dollars,
I from An,d one hundred and eighty thousand acres of good
•f ' LAND,
r, !r, the state of Virginia. ApplJ to the Printer.
'3 w A-J. 19 s
J " ——- ■■
. Just Arrived, 1
l» the Snow Bofto'n, James Kirkpatrick^mafter.from Li- p
verpool, £
coeo BnOiels SALT ;
ICO Crates QUEENS WARE; and
Am AlTortment of SHIP CHANDLEK Y , Außi
r o R SALS
On board,' at Pine-street wharf. Apply to
"James Campbell, or
George Latimer. g
Apn. , - '.y rm T T~. ■». y T
Landing, g
From on beard the Schoonsr Expedition, H
St. Croix £
For Sale by F. COPPINGER, Bi
Aug. ii 221 South g,
DUTY ON CARRIAGES. J Por
' AUg
h Notice is hereby Given,
TPHAT afreeallly to an aft ol Congicls of the United
I States of America, palled at Philadelphia, the 28th day TN a
of Mav, 1706 ; laying duties, on Carriages, for the convey- X Fri
ance of prrlons, and repealing tke former acts for that pur- ce ; vcc J
pol'e.—' That there (hall be levied, collected and paid, upon c j > c
all carriages for the convcyance of persons, which lhall be and w
~ kept by or for any perlon, for his or h«r own use, or to e p renc ]
out to hire, or for the conveying of pitTengers, the several du-
J ties and rates following, to wit.
' For and upon every Coach, 15 doU. .
upon every Chariot, 12 dols. l.nct
upon every Pod Chariot, i i dol«< mode:
upon every Poll Chaise, 12 dols. , ladeK'
upon every Phaeion, with or without top, g doll
upon every Coaehee, 9 dole.
; 1 upon other Carriages, having panne 1 work above,
with blinds, glalies or curtains, 9 dols. COT
upon four wheel carriages, having framed polls and
lopiwithfteel springs, 6 dols.
lS ' ul xjn four wheel lip Carnages, with wooden or iron
springs Or jacks, 3 dols. ' _ ow
upon cu-ricles with tops, 3 dols. Aj
uponchaifes with tops, 3 dols.
upon ehairs with tops. 3 dols. 81
upon sulkies with tops, 3 dols. _
upon other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols.
e " upon two wheel carnages, with steel or iron springs,
3 dols. By
P" For and upon all otfcer two wheel carnages, 2 dols.
>n, apon c\ery four wheel carriage, having traded polts
=nd tops, and reftiug upon wooden spars, 2 ools.
iar The Collcfiors of the Revenutf of trve firft lurvey of the
Diltrtftof will attend daily, unt 1) the 30th day
of of September next, for the purpose of receiving the duW <W
Carriages, atNo./i7>in Race or SaCfafras ftreet,in rtieCity
ib- of Philadelphia, at the house of D.mel S. Clan, Efa . in tl.
i _ County of Montgomery; and at the house of Abraham Du- Boc
tfq. in t" e Co.-rtity of Bucks; of which all perfonspul- £
if fled of such Carnages are defucd to take notice.
Notice is alia given,
I TO all retail dealers .in Wines, a«d foreign distilled spiri
tuous liquors, that licences will be granted to them ; one Ii /
cence for carrying on the business ot retailing of Wipes, in a
' lels quantity, or in less quantities than 30 gallons—and one S
liccnccfoi carrying 00 the business of, retailing Spirituous ll- C
nuors in IcfsOuantUies than-20 gallons,at the fame time and -j
, es at" the fame places, by the officers legally authotiaed to gran g
fuck licences, WILLIAM NICHOLS, !?
Infpeftor-of the of the fitft survey
of the dillrifkof Pennfjlvania. (
Office of Itifpe<Uon,at f '1 3°
). Philadelphia, 21ft July, '79 6 - S — J
TAKE NOTICE,
-5 r fHAT application will be made for the renewal of
INE 1. the following certificates, ifTueJby Joseph Nourfe,
Krgifter of the Treasury, in the name of Roger Gril
Po wojd, £fq. of Norwich, Conneflicut —
fhair , certificate, fix per cent domestic liock, No. 13,907 J
The _ date d t he i7thDecember, 179.5, bearing interest from _
wllh the firft'day of January, 1791, for 1,597 65-100 dol
-1 ditto, thre* per cent, doineft'.c stock, No. 10,682 -
!K ' r y —dated December 16, 1795> bearing interest from the
y firft day of January, I 79 1 ' for 994 30-100 dollars.
cx " 1 ditto, deferred stock, No. 9,166. dated the 17th
December, 1795, bearing interest from the firft Jann
, *r ary> 1801, for 798 83-100 dollars. .
and Said certificates are supposed.to have been loft or m
:xan- fto'en in this city some time in December or Janua:y
"five hft ' JOSEPH THOMAS,
3 ther No. 59, North Front-street. f<ji
om 8 Philadelphia, July ai, 1796- pu
navi- — T " "T r COl
res a Philadelphia, Weft-Cheller, Strafburgh,
IX Lanca/ler, Tork and Frederick-town
for- STAGES.
il' n nnHE proprietors of the above Stages, return their befl
JL thanks to their friends and the public in general, for T
ppei s encouragement received in this line ot business, and beg *
, m leave to inform the public, that they arc determined to run
,IL ' W " their flages through frem Philadelphia to Lancafler in a
P 10 P" one <i.cy, commencing on Tuesday, the 14th July instant, tQ
, in the following manner, —viz. A Stage will fct out on
'? J r that dav at 4 o'clock in the morning, from the house of
, George Weed, Market-street, Philadelphia, and run by
a " the way of Weftcncfter and Strafburgh, arrive in Lancaf
m/*!7 t cr the fame evening, on Friday morning run to Wright's
1 ' ferry and exchange pafTengers with the York and Fredej
-1 ' iek-town stage, return and arrive in Philadelphia on Sat
arrieS urday, and 011 Monday morning following, at 4 o'clock,
said stage willfet out from the said George Weed's, Phila
-1? delp'ia, and arrive at Lancafler the fame evening, on
16 , aC " Ttofday,morning at 4 o'clack will fct out from the house
110 of Mrs. Edwards, Lancaster, and arrive in Philadelphia
a ' , the fame evening, and will commence again on Thursday
te- morning following, and continue i-very week—The price
~, for each passenger from Philadelphia to Lancaster is three
™' , S dollars and a half, to York, four'dollars and three quar
tools, tcI ._ t0 p-jdetick town eight dollars, the like funis for
to , 150 s weight baggage, with the aAial allowance of 14 lb. q1
° p ' te o-ratis to'cach pallcnger, and 5 pence a jnile for all way ,j
, pafTengers. 3 0-§4w
: "w John Reilly, J
ediate George Weed.
ilcrib- 0 — j
arten- Sales of India Goods. j' 1
good The Cargo of the {hip Gahges, capt. Tingey, from Cal
the cutta ar.d Bengal,
CONSISTING OF
I-1" * Laree and general aftortment of Bengal and Madras
' CO FTON and SILK GOODS.
'AMONO WHICH AR?
A variety fine worked and plain Miflins,
Doreas, 15'r. .Also,'
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
IRS> In boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER,
ood Fpr Sale by
WiUings Francis,
ji Penn Street.
§ June 8 j .
Prime St. Croix Sugar & Rum,
Landing at Cliffords Wharf, from on board the brig
Praecrs. Capt. Thomas Watson—
6 And For Sale by
Praters & to.
Au3u(U6. dlot -
Dutch-Goods,
Retimed by the Pennsylvania, from /lmjltrdam.
GIN, in pipes
Morlaix >
» y sPi<Kte«l?i-rgi > In &" es
O&it'vj? g» J
. Optma" 1 Stripes, in crf-»
Hyrlem J
Hollands 1 DUCK,Jin ditto
Ravens J ~ ■
Bedticks, in ditto
Brittagnes > in d ; Uo
PliflllrS » * • >
For Sale by THOMAS ts" JOHN KETLAND.
AUg. 29 *
Wants Employment,
IN a gentiel family, resident in town or country, i
French lady lately arrived in this city, She has re
ceived a good education and can be well recommenc
ed. She wishes to undertake the tuition of children,
and will teach them to 'read, write, aftd speak the
French laneuaae, ih a ftort time, by principles simple,
but v e ; y intelligible.- She will also inM them .a
history, mythologie, &c. and will be carefui in paying
stria attention to their morals ; her terms will be very
moderate, fftptily at No. 15, Lombard-Street, I hila-
August ao. lot
FOR SJLE,
' COFFEE, in lihds. bagO
j COTTON, of Demerara, and > cntitledto driwbacK
j SQAL-LEATHER )
" I BOSTON BEEF, and Mo«ld and Dipt CANDLES,
i Apply to ISAAC HARVEV. J- ti.
J yV ) No. 5 south Water-street.
I 8 mo. 10.
S| I This Day is Publijhtd
i By WILLIAM COBBETT, oppofjte Cluift
ls j i Church,
A new Drawing Book,
'Y I From the Studies of the bed Matters.
)n Price 1 Dollar and 25 Cents.
% With a generous allowance to Dtawing Mailers,
u- I Book Sellers and Statiohers.
f" I Augwit 27.
J New-England RUM in Hhds.
"j* GIN In barrels,
, a VJ JUNIPER BERRIES in CSslks,
SPERMACETI, }
1<- COMMON WHALE, and > OIL..
nd TANNERS J
> ut SPERMACETI CANDLES,
I Tallow Ditto, Mould and-Dipt
White SOAP, in Boxes
y Best Boston HEEF, in barrel; and half barrels
CODTISH, in hhds,
Best Boston MACKREL, in barrels, and
- A few choice fmoaked SALMON, For Sale by
j JOSEPH ANTHONY & Co.
of Also, a fmail invoice of well assorted
M IN DI SO OD S,
,r " JUST ARRIVED.
>07 Aug. 23 ? 10
om I r
10l- I
58i Next week will be Juhmitted to public inff dhon,
the The PROSPECTUS
7 th Of a New Periodical Work entitled
mi " The United States Magazine,
And Repository of Ufeful Hid Entertaining Know
0f I ledge ;
a ; y Which will be conduced on a new, liberal, and intereft
inff plan—each number containing befidcs the usual quan
tityof letter prrffs, two neat engravings, and a favourite
so to music.—Price only one fourth of a dollar ; the
publication to commence on the Ift of Febrnary >797, *nd
, I continued monthly.
I August 26.
Waftnngton Canal Lottery,
best N°. I.
for T-rrHERBAS the State of Maryland has authorised
beg W 1 the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thovfand,
™n two hundred, and fifty dollars, fer the purpose of cutting
x in j a Canal through the City of Wafhingtor), from th Po;
tant, tomacto theEaftern Branch Harbour.
ton The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
e of Viz -1 Prize of 10,000 dollars, 20,000
1 by ' X ditto 10,000 10,000
'l last drawn "J 3JSOOO
ghts Tickets, each $ .
:dej- 6 ditto 1,000 6,000
Sat- jq ditto 400 4,000
lock, 10 ditto 100 5,000
hila- ditto ®>75°
on J7JO ditto 12 69,008
louse To be raised for the Canal, 26,2 50
Iphia _____
rfday 5850 Prizes, 1 fe,ooo
price 11610 Blanks, not two to a prize.
three *
l«ar- 17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - T?j,coo
is for gy xhc Commiflioners have taken the Securities re'
4 lb> quired by the aforefaid aft for the puudual payment o( t
wa s' the ririzes. .
t w The drawing ef this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as foo'n "as the Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded : ■
drawing is finiihed, iball be confidc i»i
the benefitof the Canal, and appr. ; T
(Signed) NOTLI .
Cal- < « danie
'
GEORC
■ 4dras Wm.M I . - <
THOM
JAMES y
' inS> Crty «f Walhingtoß, Feb. 11^
Wanted, immt
■» 1 ivo Journeymen
TO go a fmatl distance fiom th -ci
S, wa K „ will be given—their wo.
tet. Caic arrd Prtft. £nq»"« lt 3'
5 Aug. »9-Ao«t' Piibfifi'irg ?y the Printer,
Ai Nc. 3J Lartitia Court, delivering to Subscribers,
and to be had at the different Rook-Stores in this City,
Berritnan & Co's
, CHEAP AND ELEGANT EDITION OF
The HOLY BIBLE.
Containing the Old and Njw
Teftamcnts and the Apocrypha, with marginal notes and re
erencet An Index ;or an account of the mpft remarkable
the r»ld new Teftamrnt, pointing to the place*
whfreinthey happened, and to the places of frripture where
?n thev are recorded. — A Table of rime.—l ables of scrip-
weight*ao3 coins : with an appendix, contain
ing 'he rrierhnd of calculating its measures ®f surfaces
hitherto ztenti»gin Treatifcs on this fubjeft. A Table of Offucs
and Conditions of men.
CONDITIONS
*. The fizeof this Fdition will be ■
parted on a beautiful new tyj* * 3 nd good paper, made par
ticularly for if. It will br Dublifhed in Numbers, not to c<%
eecß go, one of which will delivered wtekly to fubfcrjb
ers. at a qu-*r»irr o f a dollar. Those fubfcrib«p who prefer
receiving he work complete, willbe attendeOTfc by fignifying
the fame on any of the fubfeription papers in rfce Bookltorre
in this city.
«• Thrre willbe an advance in the price, on (übfLribing
after the fir ft of August next.
3 In the courfeof'he Work will be gives an elegant
Frontifoiee«—From an Eflgravins; of the celebrated artist,
Gkicmon,
Berriman & Co. gra'efullv acknowledge the verv liberal
encouragement i hev have met with; and h-vereafon to believe
that the'f xeeution of *fieir edition will answer every expec
tation, and speak its own firaife
J a v flaweoM*
Lottery and Broker's Office,
A o. 64, South Second street:
TICKFTS in the Canal Lottery, No, 2, for sale—a
Check BOOV for examination—and prizes paid in
the late lottery.
Check Books kept for examination and r for
the City of V'afhington, No. 2, and ParteJbn Lotteries,
!>oth of which are now drawing—information where
tickets arc to he had, and prizes exehan«#d for undrawn
tickets A complex? lift of all the prizes in the 1 • t*: New-
Port f cr.p-Whdrf, Ho£l and Public Scho 1 Lottery, for
examination.
The ( fuhfcr|Hcr foiled the application of the public
and his sri n<?s. vho wilb to purchase or fell Bank Stock, 1
Certificates Bills of hxchange or Notes, lioufes, Land*, (
&c. or to obtain money on deposit of property.
1 . Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, Augufl 18, <796. • taw
Plans of the city of 1
Including the Northern-LipEßTiw and diftridl of I
Southwark, ,
Pnh'ifhed, and fold by
BENJAMIN DAVIES,
No. 68, High ftrelt, ;
( Price one dollar.)
1 HIS plan is 26 inrhe. square, and has been en
gr jved by one of the firfl artiffs !n the city, from a late "
and accurate survey. Purchafcrs are entitled to a part)- c
phlet with each plan, giving " some account of the 1
city, its population, trade, government, &c. t
J"'y '9 tuf&ftf c
Letters Patent, [
Granted to the Subfcriher, for the Cure of '
Incurvations and. Dijiortions of the Spine, J
an improveMVnt in S'ays and an Apparatus. f
VK.RY thing has been flndied to render thi; appliea
-J tion faff easy, rffedlual, and ge-erally ufeful, and
that if neceff.iry, it may be accompanied with any other
mode. '
T he success of the Patentee in the cure of diflortions,
from Incurvation' of the Spine, the Wry Neeh, &c in
thrs city in Iff rent parts of :fce Unifed State., under
the infpeijtion of miintut phyCcians, when ev< ry other
mode had failed, wilh it ]s hoped afford the public fuf
ficienfr testimony of the utility or this application. /
N B. He makes an apparatus for reftonng diflorted
■eet in children—Fandag. *in general —Traff.s of various
descriptions, one in partku! Ron a plan entirely new,
which in some cases is found -o anHv'er better than any
He returns thanks to those medical gi ntlemen in differ ] r
ent partsof the United States who h*,ve honored him with
their pafroinge and confidence. ! 11
The La-lies are refpecliully in r orme!l, that he has w
an ' legant affnrtment ol" St ys and Oor'etsfor Male, which n<
willbe altered if necessary, tree of extra charge rt
LUNDIN M-KtCHNIE,
'6 MW3W t No. 17 '
For iale by the fubicribe'rs, "
IN PfcNN-S rk FET, . *
130 quarter Chests frefh Hyson Tea;
100 do. frefh Souchong Tea;
300 Boxes China, containing fpiall tea setts of 42
pieces;
400 pieces Bindanoes.
Willings y Francis. fp
Tannarv ' itaw. _
tuuljixa cy /•' Ji-L. Iji j ,vNo. do, .toutti Second at
Jireet. d.
The, Group; «
Or, An ELEGANT REPRESENTATION P'
' ILLUSTRATED. lv
Embelliflied with a beautiful head of Wl
S. VERGES, C. S. w:
THE publilher thinks ;t a mark of refpeS, due to a co
liberal and enliyhtened public, to inform them that m
this is the Poem for the publilhing of which he lias beep -r
twice dragged from hjs house, and is now laboring under
a vexatious prosecution. He is conscious that the piece "
xontaiiu nothing either criminal or offenlive, unless ori- D
ginal wit, decorated in elegant language, be criminal or lee
dlfgufting to the prevalent taste; and, as he trußs that
neither of these is the cafe, he submits the work 'to the
public with a full aflurance of its meeting with a favora
ble reception. lUj
He would beg his prosecutors to call to mind (if they »nj
have ever read it) the follotvirg apologue-to a well known
romance—" A young painter, indulging a vein of plea
santry, fcetched a kind of Cmuirfjthn Piut, refpeainga
bear, an owl; a monkey, and an als; and to render it
more striking, humourou , and moral, distinguished eve- 10
ry ngur'b- some embhm of human life, liruin was at
r: and attitude of an old, taothlefs, fqi
le owl perched upon the hatVil-: of a
, .; '. '- 1 -V ' -de: czi his uofe.feemed to contend*
?'*te a : .i'* ar jj: d the omaanented with a hige
" • however, could wnt conceal his long
i I ' - picture to monkey, who appeared
,jth he Imp rei _s of painting. This ■wiimfualgroup the
foa i i rt' ,md met with general approbation, - r *
1 ■ w 'ag hinted ihawholc was a lam
cer, a phyCcian, Snd a member of
• ■' ■ an liiliuuitJoD which v,as no ieoner circulat*
" began to be alarmed, and even to piv
♦ fitted by the fcveral figures in the the
■ ; Jroup fell upon the painter, who dc- ,
ed tict h:,i ao design to offence, or to <ha
- : : :cui-r pctTons, l hey affirmed, the refemttmt
' ' ''' Jcrkakd,—and their clamours beinp- w »
t> * tu'lie, the Captain was a b<ar, the be
::,c Senator an owl, to their dy.ng J„ ,
.'v. .«;■ !ate Ihould attend the perions who • -v
' u ' v^ c members of this proup, the
1'" J "lhet the justice t« rwnunber that wl "
I *
«ltf |S t,
ers, fOR THE G Z~Of THE UNITED Si ArES.
,t7> MR. Fenno,
Some obftrvaUons in yonr paper (!iew an extrem?
rettlefsnefs under certain paragraphs of letters frotr
England tefpefting the conduct of the H'mfe
j r( ._ Reprtfentatives as to the Briiilh treaty. It is t
able surprizing no doubt that we do find in
laces the EnglilTi prints any threats of war such- as
J e . rc " held up as scare-crows to the multitude—but nnthe
lain, contrary, applauses of the firmnef6 with which the
■ ces opponents of t!ie treaty infilled that our wrongs
1§ ues should be redrefled before we entered into compadi i
with so faithlcf* a government.
,!0, That the oppofers of the treaty in Congress did
par- not mean to set it aside is evident to all wh« are im•
partial—fiom Mr. Maclay's proposition—which.
: e(cf was not to RtjiCTbut to sus?enb the execution
ying of the treaty until we h dafluranccs that ourfhips
o,n and seamen fhruld be fafe in futifre, and surely the
bin;- events °f'he day fully prove the necessity of this,
for the treat-'has made q,i change whatever in the
gant fla'ecfthe commerce of the United States—our
seamen are ft ill heat and infultcd—our ships are ft ill
ie , a l taken and condemned, the accumulated lofies o£
ieve which threaten our insurance companies, our banks
pec- and all our trading people.
( . But if there be any crime in oppofirfg treaties
— when difcufled in the legislative body, what shall we
. fay to Peter Porcupine the champion of a certain
patty, who declares his firm oppofitiim to another
—3 treaty made a number of years ago, of which fpeak
-111 -ing he has this fugacious remark. " {5y the treaty J
for " roadc between this country and the King of
ies, " Fiance, the French na ion is in my opinion no
ere •'more illegally of the United States tha" the Chi
..n i pffc a 'e." Is there not an effort heie to set a '
for 'he French treaty in defiance of the -govern- '
merit of the Union, how can this be reconciled by '
>lic the so much famed friends of order, except that a '
ek, treaty is one thing when made with one nation—but
lu *> quite a diffe/ent thing when concluded with ano- i
ther ? There is however one discovery rbade by
your coriefpondent the merit of whiih is all his 1
— own—he fays our feats were not of Britain decla
clating war agamft us—but unless she would con- 1
of sent to do usjullice wc miifl have declared war a- !
gainst her. I believe even the Serjeant-Major will '
smile at this—she do usjullice ! Is it justice to take
oul- ships with coffee going to AmUerdam %s soon J
as soon as they are out of our ports and carry tfeem
,nt P Halifax —Is it jurtice to tie up c«pt. JefTup
ite a I I . miferab, y lacerate and mangle the body of our 1
rn- c ' (,^£" —ls it jufttoe to tske our vefiels from the r
h e WtX Indies and qu«ry • whether we hive a rigfct
to carry fup-sr at all by treaty. Is it justice to *
_ change 'he Governor in Bermuda'and retain the in- 1
famous judge. In a word what is the justice Bri-
taiis haili heen acruftonicd to admiuifter to usdu a
ring the last twenty years, and yet where are tht a
> thunder bolts or where the danger they are in of war r
from us ?
; a d" OBSERVER. i
er J
,s > CONTINUATION OF
m . il
£ Foreign Intelligence. *
Received by the Hamburgh PacL-t, Capt. Clay, from
:<1 • Liverpool. lf
? EDINBURGH, June 30. "
This day a party of upwards of forty stout fel m
t r h lows, lately belonging to the Dytch frigate, bro't
into Greevock, marched through this city in their V(
Js way to Cha ham barracks, to j .in Colonel French's c'
h new regime, t of Caledonian Vangei s. They arc f 0
remarkable wtl ! looking young men, and are said
to have been moll of them soldiers under the old p
— ; fovti: mtr t.
They were enlißed by Capt. Collins, of the a- ;0
bove . orpj, who provided them with a pair of beau- °
tifirl colours.
Hi
ISLAND OF CEYLON.
yo
The fertility and beauty of this land is never ly
spoken of by 'lie Indians, but in terms of rapture to
—they call it the Paradifc of the World • .md the eai
d accents called it " Tarmarafin," that is, the gar- co
den of pleasure. Its air, pure and falubrions, nei
casks a perpetual cheerfulnefs ip the minds of the a <
j People, who are called CinglafTcs, a sprightly, aft
tve and ingenious race of men ; their peifoue are ge
well shaped, and of regular engaging features, fin
with complexions inclining to the olive and topper be
a colours. The frracefulnefs and urbanity of their to.
' manners, like all other Indians, is proverbial; and ter
r if they are not so enlightened as the Europeans, for
t it isfiomthe oppression they fuffered under the tlu
. Dutch, and not from any natural dtfeft of intal- the
r left. The women are exiremcly cleanly, and tho' M;
| they cannot boast a fair ccmplexion, like the beau
; ties of our own island, yet the dehciency is well
jupphed by such elegance of person, and inl'.iuat- ter
, mg address, that it is ifflpoffible not to love them, set
I
i LEGHORN, June 3.
t Intelligence has been received from Toulon, that TI
10 fail of French men of war ate stationed in a line <
s at the mouth of that harbor, to watch the Enelifh
. squadron still cruiiing oft that/port. <
ELSINEUr]" June at. roa
ExtraSof a letter. w j(
1 " a i eft y'» "»P Leapder, which with ano. cor
ther vefTel had got'on shore for want of a pilot, ar- cen
' r T fa ' C,y "" ,he ,Bth in the evff ning. cur
Ihe Lender got off, by si. il (hifting her guns aft, in c
and afterwards removing them on board the Ze- wtli
Anderfon. The Swan sloop of war arrived yor
the lareic evening'. v-'
" T uT I" 3 ° f 60 fail ° f merchantmen '«
now colleSed, a,Ki they will fail a, f 00 „ as the c (; n
wind serves, wb.ch there is every probability will <h c
bc Z° n - There are many of the enemy's cruilers den
m the Seas; but I hope his Majesty's thipa
wr keep a good look out, and that the convoy tim
will arrive in fafety. 3 f
j " P.ii. The wind b„.w fair, and the convoy - the
j i tma mofcetlt getting utider weigh."
mm %RF3 F, 7.8.
S. Extradof an oficiai letter to the. Miniiler of Ma
fine.
" The division, commanded by citron Moul- i
irne Iton, has taken the English the Royal Oak, (
whdfc cargo conisfte of articles much wanted in ;
„f this part." ' I
- - t
,S j" DINAN, 20th Prairiai. •
, c " e * The Engtilh have made a new attempt iipon the ;
,j 1c coads of Normandy. We are afiufed that they \
t j, e have even landed l ,Bob emigrants at a small dif- j
ll>g taticfi from AvrAnches, that troops have been
a( n marched to. the pi,.e of debarkation, and that al-. <
ready they have had some bloody fkirmifiei
On the 191}) they add, that an English squadron v
rn . cotnpofed of nine llltps of war of different sizes, d
j j, appeared before St. Ma lees, and advanced even to a
j on the mouth of the road ; ne\t day it bad moved near v
j_ s the gjn-poru of a fort called Lavarde, whicli'de- t
t |, e fends the approaches to St. Maloes on the fide of 1,
,; S) Canealle.—(Perlet.) ti
f u C r ■ LONDONT Ju'y 2. I
Stocks experienced a coniiderable fall yester
day, in consequence of the intelligence received
) , is from Germany in the morning ; the moriied men
concluding Austrian fueccfTes can have no
• other tendency than to prolong the disadvantages
we of the war, and render the benefit anJ fclcfiings of
pcace more distant than ever.
A letter from Berlin o£the 20th u.lt. states, that
k the Piufflan troops, who conititute the grcatelt
part of the army which is to protest the North of
o p have put themselves in motion on the
no 16th inft. on their inarch to the Wel'er.
The brother of General Buonaparte lately re
a connoitring the Citadol of Mantua, was surprised,
and nearly carried of by some Croats from the gar- an
■ rifon ; But some French Huflars coming yp, they
* rescued him.
l|S A General Election has been fometlmes called
lo _ the Britilh Saturnalia; it resembles this Roman 1 1
1 feftival in more things than one ; during its con- £ °.
tii uance all ranks are levelled, and trie conclusion
I renders the equality more permanent by the Arilto- I 3,1
n _ cratic Candidate's estate comingrunder the ham- m !
g mer of the audioneer, and being purchased by some ra ',
j|i of his Plebeian Constituents. '
M. Pache, formerly Mayor of Paris, mentioned
jn upon the authority of the Minillerial papers as •
m having been taken Up in this country turns out to
be a M. Le Page from St. ]Doming.o, member of
the Conflitue it AfTembly. Upon difcovening the
e milliike he was immediately set at liberty. Bu
Mr. Gibbon m his History, fays, that the time
to waj whe " 'he Pope could trim up all the Parsons
in Europe, so as to make every pulpit in Cfiriftcn- pal
j. dom res u d with the fame air, like the leader of on
u an orcheltra. The time, however, was now puffed der
K . away, « like a tale told by an ideot !"—lt is lit*- of
ir rally forgotten. anc
Wc lay before our readers the last commtinica- c °t
tjon from Mr. Barthelemi to the ftatc of Bade, niii
dated 15 Prairiai, June 2. ■> pie
» " Mighty Lords, pre
•' From authentic intelligence it appears, that hi*
the army under th«r cornrn&nd of Conde arc oiT tfieir ICTU
march towards your frontiers, to refmne thepofi. <Hl<
tion they occupied the last campaign. I cannot, P al °
Mighty Lords, refrain from calling your attention ,a >
tf. the avowed object of that corps of Emigrants, we
and admomfhing you to devise the most effeaual '
means for the maintenance of the neutrality of your
territory, and to repel any that may be W«
1 made upon it. ra
' " 1 have reason to believe, that the meafurrs vvh.
you have already concert«d with the confederate r.ara
btaies for this purpose, together with the rein- 1
forcements composed of the Helvetic contingents.
'cannot fail t<t f the Executive Diicftofy of the 1
' ;' the utmost confidence in th, moC f"P]
tcrupulous observance of the duties as a neutral St.
cou " :r y- that
" «• You will not I hope, mighty Lords, mistake S
the interference of the French government, when Citi
in conformity to my inftruftions. 1 again solicit »og
your attention refpeaing Coude's army. The on te„c
r iy objea i have in view on the present occasion is. Cec
;11 prC J" V < !he of your Canton, and an chac
earnelt Jciire to avert ham.voMn
co-eltates thole calamities which to me appear the a '
, necelfary confcquence of neglea and the want of den,
: a ciear understanding at the present moment. g' ne
"1 he proper difpofuions have been made by our C T
generals, ad possible precautions taken on the con- com
, fines of France 10 repel any aggrefiion that may P^a
be made by theenemy, as er traversing your terri.- row i
tones, and Aould this band of Emigrants have the A
temerity, if despair it/elf fhouid drive them to so I audi
forlorn an expedient, as to advance with arms in I eonl
their hands to the very Bosom of the French nation he n
they cannot by any poffibihty efcapc deftrudion. don
May trod preserve ]rcu, See. thefi
(Signed J "BARTHELEMI.'V torn.
In a few day, after the receipt of the above let- wort
ter, M. Ochs, burgumafter of the state of Basle
set out for Pans. ' ] ary
FRENCH REPUBLIC. men'
_. _ STATE PAPER. B
The HKHOI M. V.M.MC, upon the delivery wrot
" aelh'uk Co ihc Graild &ignior on tht datic
?T^ ighne,S evidence of Ext,
the frienrifhip a faithful alliance with the Otto
X V amity ? ich or 'B' natcc l i" a
wdelyftem since the time of the great Solyman, Y
nfirmed by many happy connections for three P°^s
cemUHes pats, and mere.fed under imperious cir- 1
cumltances, 1. a genuine national fentimewt, wlrieh I
in co,'fequence of the liberty it enjoys at present a
wrfl In f utute extend the circle of ir, o p.ration, be
yond the narrow limits of a fimpie wilh, by the T
f. The French £? WC T B .. in ~ he of all Europe, ccafe
inc trench Republic doei not conceal her in .-In 4
clinations and'the lucceisful valour 'whh '
- 1 j?i
teoltn»id«, re< „ dcd ,:. ho " p "' ht3 ™ t ' •»»
- ; iccar;
Ma. o« haPp!M r tW ' R V M ' ,C > '
with the Ottoman Empire, she wishes it m»■ ,) 8
way* be governed by f„, h a Prince as your H 1
ri* °f\ u h •? WU - fhc behold, you wfj
*' ed wjfhwifc mimfter, ; wink-in the bloom of life /'
in you are only occup.ed i,, affair, of , he hi JJ Jj "
poriancc without once I/Siinu -T, c 1 ,
«f. and glorv of your JJpj * m 3 "\ I
»"«J'« h "VaufpWousco»^ uen ; e ,"^- > f^l t ; I
* p.-- **«&. R«.i.= u".. ft KfrT
«f f""°r " " **« " f * p«ni«u,ls 2st
al-. devotion to your iughnefs."
i his fpeechand its infwer by the Grand Vist- |
ron wa. '"'erprered by Dragomans : and to the f,l n ' •
£C3 ' dld ° f M. Vcrninac, «J> e ui-col„ U rcd V
to „8 a icarf, and a cl.uier of diamonds in hi s har
ear were additional ornaments. The F.e'nM, t.
de- that followed the procefiion with shouldered
ot landed from frigate, 10, the harbor, were att e Jj 1
through the streets, by military mafic, and went as
Env" ' C " U ' l ° f the Sc "S!io with die
er- nV " 7 '
red ARMY OFTHE COAST OF THE OCEANF
icn p 7/ .
no & e * non Verba.
Tt-8 Head-Quarters, Rennei, 15 Pvairial
of „. . >"* '3~4th year.
In hope of defeating effefl of the vigilance
lat we exerc > lm P«>l»ig on the good faith which a ,j.
eit ma \"f obtainirtjf rather a delay favourable
of to his perfidious deigns, or more advantageous
he f ond| tion», the individual named-Puifaye, calW. ,
himlelf commander in chief of the pretended Ca.
re- ' C haS mis!e ' b)r '" 3 a * cms to Ge
d, r ° l l . ficß,B f of lhe alm y. various i ifijinibcaut
, r . and ln »d:ous demands and proportions, te.idi mo
ey them , in the eyes of the Goven.men:.
■ lit Commander in Chief, who ias for a long
; J known and difconeerted the atrocious plms 0 f
JI( tbisageut of England, warns bis brothers m arms
n _ to beon their guaid, and to follow wi h preafion I N
jn w ' l,at '3 pointed out to them in the orders of nth
o _ and 18th current. He at the fame time recom
mends to Ihe/h activity ; and the lite.
w ra! execution of Uie mandatejof thc Executive Di
rectory, on the fubjed of the disarming of thc in-
habitants*
u . (Signed) " Xi. HOCHE."
3 f PARIS, July 2.
ic Head Quarters at Bologna, June 2? '
Buonaparte, Commander in Chief of the Army is
ie Italy, to the Executive Direftorv.
)S General Angereau's division, Citizen
1- P alT;d the Po at Borgoforto, on the j6th of June'
,f on the 10th 1 arrived at Modena, whence I sent or'
d ders, by A(ljutan«.Geneial Vignole, to the garrilon'
f- of the Caiile of Urbino, to lay down their arms,
and to surrender themselves prisoners of war. I
continued my rout to Bologna, where I arrived at
■, midnight. We found in the Fort of Urbinp 50
pieces of cannon in excellent ordei, 3-00 fufees, and
proVisions for 600 men for two mouhs. Fort Ur
lt bi«o is in an excellent of defence: it is fur.
; r lotmdcd - bj l_ watlS' _ wctl provided with baftious, a
. ditch full of water, and a covered way newly re
, paired- Ii was commanded by a Knight of Mai
n ta, and the garrifoti consisted of 300 men, whom
we have made prisoners,
,1 At Bologna we took the Card ial Legate, with
r all the officers of the ftaff, an ; four Itandards.
: We have also taken thc Cardinal Legate of F
ra, with the commandant o'i the Foit of Fei
8 who is a Knight ef Malta. In the Calico!
e rara there are 1,14 pieces of can run 1 .
1 he Artillery we have taken will enable
( form the siege of Mantua.
; The twenty pictures with which Pa ma v
! fj'pply US are sent off. The celebrated pidlu !
J J»l. Jerome is so much elleemed in this cou
lhat they off;red us a million for it.
bome pictures fronr Modena are also sent
( Citizen Bartliele'mi is at employed in
ing a felectiori of thepi£fures at Bologna, t
te»ds to take jo of them, imor.g which is th
Cecilia, which is laid to be thc chej'cl'ccuvre of
chael Angelo.
at Pavia, cnoplojhd in enriching our Botanic
den, and our Cabinet of Natural History. I
gine they will not forget a complete collsfli
Serpents, which alone appeared to me fufficii
compeniate for the trouble of the journey.
pefl they will be at Bologna the day after t»
row, where they will also find a plentiful harve
At Milan I saw the celebrated Oiiani; ih
audience he had of me, he was so confufed th
j could not aufwer any question I put to him. 1
he recovered from his afloniftiment, he said,' 1 -
don me, but ibis is the lirft time I have be
these superb apartments, my eyes are not t»i.<
tomed." He was not a'ware that by theft '■
words he uttered a severe criticism on the Arcl
duke's Government. 1 hastened to pay hi® his sa
lary, and gave him every necessary encourage*
ment.
By the firft courier, I (hall fend you the letters I
wrote to him, the moment i received the recommen
dation which you sent me for him.
BUONAPARTE.
Extract of a letter from Buonaparte, to the Exe
cutive Dire&ory.
Head-Quarters at Bologna, June
\ efterday Maficiia attacked Beaulieu's advanced
pods; all which he drove Li, having killed 50 wen
and taken 40 prifoneis.
I continue to be fatisfied with the difcipli" e of
■he army,as well as with the Geneials.
BUONAPARTE.
Tranquility is restored to this city. Pillage ha*
ccafed. It mult be allowed that it is almolt a miri'
ele, for the government were on the point of set*
ing a part of those very men, whose duty it is to
fupprtfs feJition, join the insurgents. Will peo
ple be convinced it length that there can benoade
quate fe urity f.>r pioperty in a great town like this
the center of all the faftiduf, and of every species
of feduftion, until its defence, at lead in part, flicll
>be entrulled to ihofe who are molt ioterelicd
all attack. .'
Tr-ie Dircflory have Tent away a part cf the
troops that were stationed in the metropolis, aJ
have ordered others to replace them.
Prince Henry of Pruflia eorrefpoads with the
Academyjf Arts and Sciences eftabliftied at Pa
ris", to which he offered to fend a M. S. of Dide
rot, in his peffeffiop, entitled, Jacques le Fataliiie.
_
The Ottoman Amnaftador is arrived in France.
He pnffed through Chamberry on the 25th of June
and may be expe&ed at Paris in a few days.
The Cardinals of Bologna and Ferrara were
made prisoners; but Buonaparte, after he had
(hewn them to the army, sent them back to Rome,
oil their parole faying, " Go and tell your mailer
\ what you have seen."
The following are the conditions of a suspension
of humilities, which has been agreed upon between
Gen. Buonaparte and Piince Belmonte Pfgnattelli,
f 1 envoy ftom the Court of Naples to the Court of
Madiii?.
f' Art. I. All hoftilitiesjjiall cease between the
tVoops of the French Republic and those of the
King of Naples, on the day on whTclvtjie following
r.rt v i:s (hall be executed, until ten days truer the
official annunciation of *he conclusion of the
ciation for peace, which shall be opened between
the refpe&iA: jjleriipotentiaries, at a place to be ap
pointed by the executive directory.
11. The body of Neapolitan troops now aftmg
with those of the Emperor, (hall be withdrawn, and
cantoned, in the places hereafter fpecified.
111. This Corps being comprised in the suspen
sion of arms, (hall go into cantonments in the Ve
netian territory of Brescia, Cretnaand Bergamo.
IV. The said suspension of arms (hall extend to
thefleetsof the two powers ; and meanwhile, the
ships of the King of Naples (hall be withdrawn,
as soon as poffibls, from the English fleet.
V. A free passage, as well through the French
territories, as through the country occupjed by the
French troops, and through the Neapolitan do
minions, (hall be granted to the Couriers of both
powers.
Signed at Brescia, 13 Prairial.
feu&NAPARTE &
Belmonte Piqn atew,
The army of the Rhine and Moselle has gained
a fre(h viftery beyond the Rhine. ' It has entered
Fribosrg, in the Brifgau, after a long and bloody
a£lion, maintained by the Imperial regiment of Cu
irassiers. It is said, that there is scarcely one of
the Cuirassiers who is not covered with wounds.
Prodigies of valour have been .performed on both
fides. Official details arc, no doubt,' about to be
published. L'Eclair.
July 5.
, f Letter from General Buonaparte to the Executive
Dire&»ry,
Head Quarttrs at Pifloja, June 26.
Prince Pignatelli, citizen Directors, is just ar
rived at this place, with'inftrutiiona from his court,
who has accepted the armillice. An order will be
sent off this day, to the commander in .chief of the
Neapolitan cavalry, to leave the Aultrian army.
Tliis frjiiinpoKntfrrtry-nr i*j £».'■ imt-tor Furi»
row.
r Buonaparte.
letter from General Buonaparte to the Executive
Dire&ory.
Head Quarters at Pijleti, June 26. '
I hare enclosed, Citizenß Direflors, a copy of
the armistice concluded with the Pope.
The legation of B.ojogna is one of the riehe'ft
rm ■ of the papal territories, you cannot have an
idea of the hatred which prevails here against the
oiii'"ion of the pipe.
). heCitadfl of Ancona gives us a command over
Vdiialic Giilph ; we have taken in the forts
" I ilO Ferraia and Bologna nearly 200 pieces of
t'.. cannon, from 7to Bcoo fufees and a certain
ity of ammOnnion and provisions.
BUONAPARTE,
MADRID, June 1.
re Prince of Peace has declared to lord Bute
■if "if the Englifli government fhonld persist in
in'' all proportions for tlit conclusion of a ee.
•p,-,... .;.t 1L.1.), <rp»m"w«wiKr in .
| -atron of his cause Jo join those -\*>wers who
• 1 determine to compel them to it by force of ,
I■ ' " EcLir. ,
MILAN, June 12. I
t'li.e resolution passed by the .municipality of ,
Milan, with the approbation of the Agent of the ,
French goverrment, for the abolition of nobility is j
the commencement of ir new order of things. 1 c
No pains are spared to gain over the people by ,
redueing the price of different articles of confump- r
J tion, a»id to enlighten them on the fuhjeft of their v
nghts. The proclamations of the municipality, ]
and the books circulated by the popular club, have j ,
squally contributed to forward this purpose. v
PARIS, June 30. t
The Duke ps Parma has been comprised in the
treaty of peace between France and Spain, - 1
The Chevalier lias already signed the prelitnina- a
ties of peace in the Pope's name.
The citizens Gallazzo Perbelloni, Tidelli Pop- 0
f'onfi, and Charles f.icholas, deputies of the n>u« n
nicipijlity of Milan, have arrived at Paris, and ,
presented rb the Diieftoiy an ir.ftrument in behalf
of the Milanese people, who therein solicited the c '
proteflion of the French nation in forming them- - c ;
fcives i|ito an independent Republic. '
The Executive Dii flory to the Commander in
Chief of the Arn?y of the Rhine and Moselle. 0
" The Executive Diiedtory gives you notice, ''
Citizen General, that tljey have acceded to the ;
ftcmand of the Spanirti Geneial, Solanb, and his
biother Stanislaus, to repair to the army which w
you command, to perfect their military knowledge.
"As footr as they amve, you will infotm the .
army oT the eircumftarice, who will doubtless be 13
flattered by this preference ; and, sensible of the
homage rendered to the Frenoh nation, in the per
foisuf its defenders, will consider it as a fubjeft for
t mala tion, which will stimulate them to frclh effurta te
Ulv ..
Philadelphia,
TUESDAY, AUGUST 30, 1796.
Je- Dempfey Burgess, Nathan Bryan, aftd James Gil
lefpie, Efq'r«, are re-?le«fked members of Cougyefs,
by their refpeflive diftriAs.
ee. The have informed the people,
ine °f France, that the retrogade movements of genera)
Jourdan were—preconcerted.
•re Tlie British Parliament is prorogued to the 16th of
ad August.
,e.
Icr Philad. August l(itb, 1796.
AT a numerous meeting of Citizens of Philadelphia,
on a' Dun woody'# tavern, it was unanimously agreed f>
en recommend EDWARD TILGHMAN, as a suitable
.. person to be voted for at the next eleislioi\ to reprefjnt
the City of Philadelphia in the Congress of the United J
o» States. JOSEPH MAGOFFIN, Chairman.
BENJ. R. MORGAN, Sac'ry.
he
Tranflatedfor the Gjizettk of the United States.
he
From Hamburgh Papers, received by the (hip
Voltaire.
en _ London; June i 7.
P We learn by"te«er» fj-om Falmouth, that Sir Ed
ward Pellew in the frigate Concorde, has taken
;he Fronch- frigate La Cocarde Nafionale, of 54
guns and 600 men, (he is now on her way to Ply
mouth. On board of her, there were 10 Member#
r n of the last French Convention. S[)e failed in com
pany with four others, on a secret expedition. The
to r 'g ate had one lieuteniint and 17 seamen
killed. The English squadron is now in puriuit of
the other four frigates of the enemy.
V E Z E L, June 9.
At Cologne the French commander has issued a
Proclamation, refpefting a plot laid to be formed,
to affaflinate the French garrison, but the Muqici
" pality gave fatisfaiflary explanations on that fubjeft.
l ' Extra£l of a letter from Wetzlar, June 17.
Herewith you will receive some details of the
battles fought, on the 14th, 15th and 16th, near
our city, and at Altemberg.
On the 14th there wete only (kirmifhes, withbut
ed 3 ny formal attack; yet the French were repulsed
ed from Wehrdorf, Betghaufen. Dillheim and Ketz
iy enfont ; all those places fuffered greatly by their
u- retreat.
of On the 15th, affairs be)?an to wear a more serious
In- afpedt. The French !#jrmed of the reinforce
th ments, arrived for the Imperialists on the Lahri and
be Dill,' intended to force the centre of the Jmpbria j
lifts, which expedition Gen. Le Fehvrc undertook,
with 2j,000 men. He is the fame who comman
ded the expedition of laftyaar in this quarter, «nd
is perfectly acquainted with the country. On th<-
15thin the foienoon, he attacked v the Imperialists
lr . at Berghaufen, Wehrdorf, and pushed his forces
■ t> forwards through the woods near those places.' The
3e Austrian Grenadiers, the regiment of Hufiars,
be Veczay, and the Saxos Chaffeuis, just arrived, at,
y. tacked thr enemy ; but the French annoyed these
[- ttajopa by tnad<cd baHcriej crcfted
from Leon to Altenftetten, firing grape shot, where
by the Saxon Cbafleurs fuffered fcverely. t icld
Ma rtial, Lieutenant de Werheck advanced with
v ' e the remainder of his troops, polled behind our ci
ty '.he cannonade betame frightful, the Imperi
'alifts on fevcral points were obliged to give way, the
of rain and weather not being in their favour. We
lived in anxiety, and a retreat appealed to be una
Voidable ; so matters at 7 in the evening,
,n when unexpectedly and like a saviour from Heaven,
atrired the Archduke CharleSj and hattened i'ft full
gallop to the field of battle. During the most terri
er ble fire *of (hot, he rode through the ranks
Is and encouraged the troops, by affming them that
reinforcements weie drawing near. The Imperia
ls liiti now persevered with unexampled bravery. A
few "moments past Imperial troops arrived from
WeiJn-'Uenfter and Nucmheim, filing off to Konigf
berg. At the fame time the brave Saxon ttoops
marched by Rechtenbach to the field of battle, and
te more cannon airived, which the Imperialists ftood-ia
ln need of. Now they attempted to-decoy the enemy
?• fym. his woods : in vain. Then the lmpeii
m al'ft* ercAtd two batteries in opposition, and com
-10 menced a violent canonade. The Imperial and Sax
°f on cavalry turned the woods, the infantry charged
the batteries with bayonets and stormed the gaval
ry ranged in the woods, when the French were
obliged to retiie; and by jo at night vhftory
: decided ,for the Auftrians. On both fides many
ie were killed and wou-vded. The grape (hot did
18 great execution among the Imperialists. The Sax
| ons performed prodigies of valor, to them the
T j victory is principilly owing. Many prisoners are
not brQßght in yet, amongst them is a colonel of ca.
lr valry wounded. Twelve cannon jvere taken. A
'1 lieutenant of the Saxon chaffenrs, the -firft who
c 1 penetrated in the woods, was taken prisoner, and
was found afterwards with his throat cut.
Yesterday the t6th the attack wae renewed and
the French driven from Leun, Stockhoufe, and
e Wcilbourgh. The huflais of Blankenftein crossed j
the' Lahn near Overbuehl, made many prisoners,'
i ana took a cannon.
General Lefebvre had his hand cut off by a Sax- ]
on horseman, and his brother was killed by the
mufquetry. j
The prisoners from Jourdan's assure us, that 3
f thev were protnifed to plunder Frankfort, if they |
e could penetratv' to place. This at firft oc
calioned great alarm amongst the inhabitants. Thus ]
V/e:zlar, Franckfort and their environs were-faved.
3 It was necessary to hasten the arrival of 9,000
Saxons, by an express ; the Archduke led them c
himfelf to the battle.
! From Dillcnburg the brought in yefter
j day a French commissary and seven upon
j whom they found 2Cp louis d'ors.
This-day the whole Imperial army passes the c
. Lahn in pursuit o'f the enemy, the loss of which
is said to be 3000 men.
FRANCKFORT, June 18. c
This day we are informed that the Auftriansaf
1 ter the most obstinate refiltance »veithrew the lefj 2
- whetr-upwards ef iooo prifone'3 were taken, tVje
left wing having already reciolied the Rhine at
Neuwied.
/ r a l r.
1- ROVE REDO, June io.
s > rhe.garrifon of Mantua by a sally made from
the tortrefi, blockaded by the Ftrnch, killed 600
l e of the French.
>l' ' r '
> GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES MARINE LIST.
PHILADELPHIA, eg.
ARRIVED. days.
Brij> New York Packet, Strong, ' Cltarlefton IO
'' Ship Mary, Fatten, . JacquemeKw 2
Sloop Driver, Gardner, Alexandria 14
|t Catharine, Nortk-Carolina 4
d Schr, Jack, Bass, * Camden 5
Brig GeSVge, Marn'ner, arrived at Kingston from
this port on the 24th July, and was to fail 6th of
August from vhcnce.
A letter from the Havannah of 10th Augft. fayi,
p " Capt. Barney With 2 frigatesof 44 and I 0t"32
guns, anchored at the Ponto 'the* Bth inft. from
Cape Francois.
|_ On his passage from France he captured j5 vef*
n fels— 5 or 6of them filing under certificates of
properly, Those he set firt to has publicly de
clared he will do so m every instance, which is poor
4 eneouragemerkt for Americans to purchase prizes of
them. One of them was a brig belonging to P.
e and T. Mackie, from Malaga, Andrew Paden
n matter, who was murdered the feeond day after
,£■ they failed, by the mate and crew, a*d a consider
able sum of money that was on board divided a
mongthem. 'Phefe people capt. Barney deliveied
a up to the government at the Cape."
| f *
Lift of American Vessels lying at. Hamburgh ;
. communicated by Capt. Bowen, of the ship
Voltaire :
c Ship Amiable, Tillinghaft, Philadelphrs ; Entef
r prize, Norris, d». Camilla, WiMamfon, do. Ann &
Mary, Bcllis, do. Two Friends, Hathaway, ditto j
Diana, Piles, do. Bacchus, George, do. snow In
t ouftry,. Ruflel, do. brig Eliza, Yardflcy, do. fcip
d Uncle Toby, Reynolds, N. York r Cygnet, Johnflon,
do. Offego, Morris, do. Sanfom, Smith, do. from
r India ; General Lincoln, Lawrence* do. from the J3ay
of Honduras; Hairy, Dunn, ditto, from London j
Charlotte, Neale, do. George, Ramfdel, ditto, from
" Bordeaux; Felicity. Coffin, Boftop | Eliza, Swain,
do. from Calcutu ; Aurora, Funnell, do. brie Sifters!
u Cdggerfhall, ditto.
, lhe Franklin, Walter, from Boston, arrived at
Dover July 2.
d Gravefend.June 26. Passed by, the Harriot,
* Thtimpfon, fiom Newpprt, and Henrietta, Craig,
s /rom Sun bury, America. The Paragon, Cufhing,
s and Eliza, Davis,/rom Boston.
e Deal, July 8. Arrived, the Two. Brothers,
, Mendum, from New York for orders.
The To .ias, Pepper, from Builo'a pafled Grave
e fend July 7. ,
- The Thomas frorti'Pottfmouth, N. H. arrived
at Poole, July 6 ( and the Hope, Hobby,from New"
a York pissed Gravtfend the sth.
1 The DoniiniYk Terry, De Hart, for Philadel
phia, chin td at Kingston Jtilv 26.
The brig George, Glen, failed the 25th.
e The Peace, from Philadelphia arrived the 26th.
e Charleston, Avgujl 19.
Yettevday arrived the fcftoon-i Neptune, Dickin
1 son, Savannah, 3 days; brig Commerce, Bowers,
. Aux-Cayes, 22 days ; brig Molly, Dryburgh
1 Demerara, 24 days ; schooner Lark, Hand, Jere
* mie, 21 days; schooner Three-Friends, Spencer,
s LiftM River. 3 days.
1 Capt. Dalton, of the ship Lucy, from London,
- on the 26th of June, spoke the ship Amity, Capt..
L Campbell, of Philadelphia, from Barcelona bound
} to Hamburgh, out 45 days, all well; Capt. Camp
- bell informed that the Algerines had declared war
s againll the Turks.
3 On the 3d of August, capt. Dalton spoke the
' ship Golden Ag«, of Philadelphia, bound to
1 Jamaica, out 7 days, all well.
On the 12th of August, capt. Dalton spoke the
* ship Fame, from the Havannah, bound to Phila- ■
*delphia, out 6 days, all -well.
Norfolk, Augujl 22.
Yesterday arrived the sloop Martha, Capt. Fol
: ger, 30 days frcm Madeira. The Captain fays r
' American produce is remarkably low there. The
' following is taken from her log-book—
' Lift of vessels left at Madeira the 20th of July. c
The ship Hope, of New-York, to fail for ditto I
: in a few days. 1
; ' Brig Fame, of Philadelphia, for Charleston, to
' fail in tw& days.
Brig Rebecca, for Philadelphia, to fail that af
ternoon. - l
Ship Favorite, of New-York, to fail in a few
days for the Cape-de-Verds..
Schooner Olive, of Boston, for St. Michaels.
On the 7th August ipuke the (loop Dolphin, r
, from New-York, bound to St. Bartholomews, out
23 days. 1<
August 18, spoke the sloop Two Brothers, from
New-York to Turk's Island.
Atiguft 20, was boarded by the British ship lie- u
folutioo, in company with another ship of the line
and s frigate, 7 leagues E. by S. from the light
house.
Arrivals at Baltimore—Augujl 12.
Brig Dispatch, JDonnaldfon, Jeremie r
George, Bartlett, Port-au-Pnnce
Ann, Beatty, . do.
Schooner laclipff, Kilbtfrn, St. Bartholomews
Rackel, Pannell, J cquenacl I
Maria, Keen, Grenada b!
-Edward and William, Davies, Port-de- of
Paix. Fl
Sloop Dolphin, Almy, Cape-Francois 01
Hiram, Ryan, Philadelphia
Arrivais.at New-York—Augyjl 29. _
Days.
Ship Fa ft or, Kemp, Cadiz 43
Minerva, Eldridge, St. Übes 26
Br>g Hector, Drake, „ ierniuda 10
r %rei H '
ie NEW-YORK, August 27.
it Extract of a let-ter from Capt. Jaftes Neil!, of the
brig Mary Ann, dated Cadiz, Juiy 12, 1796,10
hisowneis in New-York, received per thip FiC
tor, Capt, Kemp, just arrived fitjm thence.
" Thank Goo, I am here .'"for I had a very for
n tunate cfcaape from two Altferkei 1 fell in with, off
0 Cape Pa!o=, coming down from Barcelona. They
endeavored to board me, knowing Wc 1 wh..t I war,
by stewing my colors, aa alio by a Spai ilh
(hip which wan't Salon with me ; tin: lucki
ly I wtsnear the land, and 1 got under one f ;he
totvers and let g* my anchor, which pro eiud n;f,
s. When the Algerities fount! 1 w3s thus fx tut Vl,a
0 they filed a ;;ur to windward and made f;;il t<- the
1 wellwltrd.— I considered it would be impruilc'nf 1 .!
4 dangerous immediately to follow them, lo I put inn.
4. theport of Carthagena, whi.h detained me fix d ys.
5 " I fhali not be surprised to hear'in afewdms,
n of many of our velfels being captured and earn. ,1
if into Algiers—there are feyetal of them in tIW Mc- .
ditprtaiKan, and out* truce expired on the 6th it; t.
and no hopes of its renewal, or any other favca
1, ble circumttance taking place. There 1 ; ireat talk
2 of war commencing between Great-Britain and
n Spain shortly, which I believe will be the cafe. All
the English vciTels that are in this port at prefei.t,
- are ordered to Gibraltar, and they are to fail from
if hence to-morrow, at all events."
> When Capt. Kemp, of the Faflor, left Cadiz, fevert
r trench Jhips of the line and three frigates l.ty in that
if H ort ' Ab ' ,lJ '' 5° fail of Spanifii (hip.- of war, nuny of
>. '" frn °- the line, were-a1,,) Jy; ny titer**-, ma it.-• prepa
ration for war which they dailyexpefted. Mhe En
' glifii merchant fliips had been ordci.-d by the Gover-
T nor of Cibraltar to quit Cadiz— they, accordingly faikd
-• for the port of under convoy of aa i ngliih -
rrigate : Capt. Kemp faiied out in company with them. ■
J Adm. Rithtfry was still hlo ka<ied in the port of Ca
diz. Dull market for produce—dour 10 to i* dolors, N
beef 18, pork io to j}l.
By a Halifax paper of August I*l th, we learn
' that the British ihip A<Sive, having on board Lord
P Dotcheller and family, was call; away on the Ifl.ind
.. °.' Anticufti. The of his Idrdfhip is r.ot men
tioned.
• - ' » «
P Great is Tsuth and miiji prevail\
* JUST PUBLISHED,
. And forfait at No- 41 Chefnut-Jireet by J. ORMJ'QD,
>> An Apology for the Bible,
By R. Watson, d. d. 'f. j?. s.
lt Bif/.op of Landaffi &~c.
Being a complete refutation of Paiae's
r| t, - y {S e °f Reason,
r> And the only anf»ver to i,he Second Part.
Augutt 30. dtf
Just Published,
, From the Prcf? of MOREaU DE ST. MERY,
and to be ii *d at the principal Booltfellers 'in town,
1 one quarter of a dollar)
J P/IMPHLEJ ENTITLED
The Blue Shop;
1- Or Impartial and Humorous Obfcrva^cns
on th~ Life and sjuvsntures of
Piliß PokCUPINS.
>- With the rtd motives which gave rife to h:iabufe of'
our diftinginftied patriotic characters.
1 t together vvit«
1, A full and fair Review of his late
* Scare-Crow.
€? This produtftibn is interesting to all parties.
August 30. dtf
1, St. Croix SUGAR and MOLASSES^
d Laiidiug from on board thr lchooht-r Little Tom, Capt.
Thomas Dennett, at feace-tlrtet wharf,
r A choice parcel of St. Croix Sugar,
and a few hogsheads of Molaffcl
c For Sale by
3 Praters and Co.
Au E uft 3° din
e ~ " — ——•— —
- At a fpscial meeting of the Board of Di
re3ors far eJialYfhwg ujiful Manufactures, hulden
at Paterfon, 'Jidy 8, 1796,
' R E^ LVED ' ' hat a Ipe-exal meeting of the Stock
) . f f' of thc Society be called on the firlt MoPday,
. b " n g th = third ay of Odlober next, at Pjterfon, by ten
oj the clock of the fame day j then and there to tiki
into ccr.fidcration the prbpriety of diflblving the said
corporation, agreeably to the law in such cafe made and
> provided—and the Stockholders are earnestly i tquefted '
to attend the said meeting in person or by proxy
, Au g" ft a > dt 3 o"thO
•TO BE SOLD,
A pair of black Coach Horses.
For terms inquire at No. It Quarry-street
August 30. tf
notice.
'T'HE fubferiber intends to make application for a re-
Ift "T al °!r thC follow "g certificate, supposed to be
101 lon the paflag® to England in April 1704 •
Certificate No. 10335, dated 15th November, 179,,
for 2830 dollars and 91 cents—Si* per cent, domestic
debt, on the books of the Treasury of the United States
m the name oi the Hon. John Trevor.
,• . 1 -BKR 1 BIRD, at John Warder's.
Philadelpnia, August 30th, 1796. §(5 W
For Fredericksburg,
Oy any port on Rappahannock river,
The fact failing SCHOONER
Nelson Hugene, maftcr; a remarks
bk velici, nst one year old, the moft,material part
of her frame being locuil, mulberry, and black walnut
F»r further particulars apply to laid mailer or the owner
on board at Sjna's wharf.
To fail on Friday next.
August 3 Q . - 4t
- —i
A Handsome,- well-broke
SADDLE HORSE,
v For Sale, enquire at the Concftogo Stable's, the owner* V FOR S A L •' ?-
A. very Valuable Edate, t h= d un
CALLED 7IVI TT E NH A M, fiinate in the
tov/nfhip of Upner Derhy, andcountyof Delaware, ' x *
7 1-2 miles from Phiiad Iphia, and half a mile from the l P r
new Western road containing 230 acres of excellent land, 1 an y
45 of which are good watered meadow, 90 of prime wood- P u ' c
land, and the reft arable of ith« ftrfl: quality. There arc j r
on the premises a good two flory brickhoufe, with 4 rooms * v "
on a floor, and cellars under thewhok, with a pump-weli 11
of excellent, Water in front; a large frame barn, ftablcs, nie lA
and other convenient buildings; a fmol %-house and ftcne,
spring-house ; two good apple orchards, and one of peach
c«. The fields are all in clov**, except those immediately
under tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advmtagc
of* water in each of them, which renders it peculiarly con
venient for grazing. Sched
The situation is plcafant and healthy, and from tht high
cultivation of theland> the good neighbourhood, and the r
vicinity to the city, it is wry suitable for a gentleman
countiT feat.
The foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Harman, -——■
deceased; and offered for falc by
Mordecai Lewis, !
Q<3. 9. eo.] Surviving: Executor.
Samuel Richardet, —
RESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen J
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY 2
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in the 5
city of Philadelphia. 'k
The Subscription Room will be furnifhed with all the ;
daily papers puMiflied in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos- 35
ton, Baltimore, together with those ot the principal com- 2
mercial citi<es Europe—They will be regularly filed
and none permitted to be taken away on any account. -
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
of French Liquors; together with the usual refrefhments,
will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may .depend on being accommodated with
the choicest of Wine*, Spirituous Liquors, and the most
approved Malt Liquors frorr. London and o'her breweries.
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and earliest
proiu&ions of the SeafOn.
Large an<jl small Fartie?, or flngle Gentlemen, may be
accommodated wiih Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at 4
S. hours most convenient to themselves—a cold Qoilacion is
kept for conveniency, the Bill of Fare to be had
at the bar.
The Lodging Rooms will Se completely furnifhed, and
the utmost attention paid to tleaftlinefs, and every other 3 1
requifke. .
S\muel Richardrt will be happy to receive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public "at
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfelf that nothing on his part shall b^wanting to pre- ,
fervethat patronage with which he has been so diftinguifh
ingly honored.
Philadelphia, April 19. € °
Mr. F RAN CIS,
(Of the New Theatre)
TAKES this opportunity of returning thanks to his
frholars and to the public. Mr. Francis intends,
on his return from Maryland, to open a public aca
4emy for dancing, bpon a plan entirely new. He
flatters himfelf that his attention to his pupils hi
therto renders any promises of conducing litf future
schemes on the most liberal and ftriiSift terms* of pro
priety, totally unnecefiary.
N. B. Private tuition as usual.
June 3 ™ v ' g
To be disposed of,
THE time of a healthy NEGRO WOMAN, w>o ,
has between four and five years to serve : She
tan be recommended for her sobriety and honesty. For
particulars enquire at No. 132, Chefnut-llrcet.
I'cuft 1a" tf.
To be fold by public sale,
OV Wedneflay, the 7th day of S ptember next, on
the premises in Mount-Holly,Burlington county, by
the Subscriber,
The Dwelling-House and Lot
Whereon it fta (Is, having been in part occupied as a (lore
for feverd vers pal. an ! in a good (land tor bufinef=,to
gether wi;h rh-ftore houfc, ftahle and buildings thereon
ere&ed, havinjr two large/ ellars under them. Also, the
{hop goaHsand household furniture. A clear title will be
given to the purchaser on payment of the money or fuf
ficitnt bond therefor, and po'Mion of the prem fes will
he given in the said month of September. 1
The sale is to continue 'till the whole is disposed of.
M'ourt Holly having become rha County Town, makes
this property more valuable than heretofore. Ihe condi
tions will be made known at the time and place of sale, by
PETER SHIRAS.
N. B. Ml persons indebted to the subscriber.are request
ed to difchargethe fame immediately, as he intends soon
to remove out of this'ftate. Any person having a just de
mand againfl tbe fubferiber, is requested to produce the
fame for fettlctnent.
Mount Holly, August 16, 1796.
W A N T E I),
An.'APPRENTICE to the Printing Buftnefs.
■ Enquire at this Office. '9
Lands of tbe United States •'
f rea r ury Department, dvgujl 3, 1796.
Public Notice is hereby Given,
IN pursuance of an aSt of Congress, passed on the ißth
day of May, 1796, entitled 1' All a& providing" for
the fale'of the lands of the Unitfcd itates, in the Territo
ry north weft of the river Ohio, and above the mouth of
Kentucky river," that the fe&ions or lots of land defcri-
Ued in the annexed lying in the seven ranges of
v - townships, wtiich were surveyed in pursuance of an ordi
nance of Congress, passed on the twentieth day of May,
in the year one thousand seven hundred and eighty-five,
will be etpofed for sale at Public vendue, in the town ot
Pittfbnrgh in Pcnnfylvania, on the twenty-fourth day of
Oiftober next, and thenceforward, from day to day until
the firft day ofDecember ensuing, unlefsthe said lots fhalj
be soOner fold, in the manner, and on the terms and con
ditions herein after mentioned, to wit :
ift. The said fe&ionsor lotslhall be fold under the di
refiion ef the Governor or Secretary of the Western Ter
ritory, and such person as the PreCdent of the United
' State* mayfrecially appoint for that purpose.
I 1. The said fe&ions or lots fhalt he fold to the highest
bidder,but no sale can be made for less than two dollars
per acre of the quantity of land coutained in such lot or
jeflion.
3. The highefl bidder as before mentioned, must depo
sit at the time ef sale, one twentieth part of the purci aft
money, in the hands of such person as the President of the
United States Ihatl appoint to attend the falcs for that pur
pose, which will bs forfaited, if a moiety of the sum bid,
including the said twentieth part, shall not be paid within
thirtydays from the time of sale.
4th. Upon payment of a moiety of the purchase money
in the manner before mentioned, the purchaser wi 1 be
entitled to one year s credit for the remaining moiety ;
an 4 shall receive from the Governor er Secretary of the
Western Territory, anc the person who fhill be appointed
by the Pi efldent of the United States, tc direct the fales,a
certificate describing tho lot or f Aion purchased, and'de
claring thefum paidonaccount, the balance remaining due, I
•the time when such balance beepmes payable, and that I
the rvhole land therein mentioned, will be forfeited, if the |
Tald bahnce is not th » paid ; but if the faidj balance frail LJ.
be duly difcharged,by paying the si «e to the I reafurer 01
th - United States, the purchaser or his aOignce or o.lier 1
feeal re>refentati«, Siall l.c entitled to a patent .or the
fa'i I lands, on his producing ro the Secretary oi State a re
ceipt for such balance endorsed upon the certificate. But rU
it" any purchaser shall make payment of t'ls whole or the „ (
purchase money, at the time when the payment ot the & f
firft moiety is directed to be made, he will be entitled to a
Jeduftiou of ten p;r centum on the part for which a ere- nort j l . w
dit isaiithorized to be given; and his patent (nail be im
mediately ifTued. .. j . delcribe'
Given under my hand at Philadelphia, the daj and 0 ( tu .
year above mentioned. ordinan
' OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of theTreafury wi
■ heMoi
Schedule of fe&ions of town/hips, or fractional, parts aav ol
cf to tun (:ips, to be fold at Piujbirgh, in purfu tr.re unt-1 th
of the 6th feclion of an aft of Congmfs, puffed V J
the 18th day of May, 1796. lft .
- ~ '* - highest
' 5 60 . c dollars
S - 1 J 8 •£ quarter
0; O Z | O S O Iri
o' i -45 on ° M " ofw a
Z \ 1 S H at'. 1 chafe.n
Ift RAt<GE~ 6tlTTownfhip. 6th Range. Su t t "'.
, ift Township. Sau 640 each iftTownfh.p.
28 565 14 640 17 320 "7
: 49 256 95 i7aao64oejch 18 270 /
30 250 7J 25336,640 fach |21 850 ' be
: 34 240 90 gthTowflfhip. 22 166 40 j,
35336 640 each jai4 640 each 23 427 fliippu
2d Township 17310 <40 each . 24 640 the bal
I 19 14° 23 i 6*? *7 151 8° , becom
10 ■ [70 25a30640eacb tioned
f 21 i8 5 33a;6 640 each 33 |58 _ paid;
' 22 230 lotliTownfhip 34a36640each paying
25 488 80 112 [640 each 2d Township. thepui
? 26827640 each 5 ai4';')4o each 1 126 shall b<
28 560 i7a20'640 each 2 440 ducing
; 29 551 60 23336)640 each 3 448 endorf.
30 564 i2th':To« nfhip. 4 456 make j
c 31-36 640 each 131464 c each "5 464 time
. 4thTownihip. i7320.640each 6 472 be mat
; s V) •64 2 3 336|640e3ch 7 340 liven?"
J 6 f . 4thß - GE . Bar 4 640 -ch S-en,
26 387 60 , 4 ftTown(hi i7"o 640 each
d »7 36 . . ' 23336640^°"
;r 31332 640<3ch A 5 3 c}Townftiip.
33 616 L I 470
. jO 640
d 34 445 20 ■> .j, ■ 2 478
II /35 22250 ? / a 66 each 3 456
n?-° *dTownfhip. 4 Of Qj
1- JthTowtilhip. 6 5 S oJ f ual) c C
6 . w> 3a6 4 o each 6 , f 0 „ , the 18
12 479 3° % 6 . 2D 7ar4 640 each
_ 17 304 15 0 fi ,o 17320640 each
18 63S 50 '* each 2333664° each
23 450 75 ~ sth 1 ownfhip. .
24 640 , 3 ll 5 I ;l8 M
is 184 i7a2d 640 each 1 -
a' 80 2 3*36 640 each 3 W *
1 36 60 80 3dTownfhip 4 ; o
J == 1314 640 each t .e S.
ad RANGE. tja2o 64c|each
o- ift Township. 6 4 o|each r^2C , ach
28 I 120 sthTownfh,p ach
34 I 6| 5° iai 4 540 each Tow 4 nfl ,; j
3d Township. r .55
— 14326 646 -3ch 13336 640 eatih 1 5
s8 U99 16 7thTownfhip. 6 *
ho 29t64c' T32 64o|each 3J7
}~ 3 t 333,640 each ,537 640' each '
4thTown(hip. i2ai3 64oeach •> y l3 r
„ 2640 ,83 19 640cach \ £» h
II 397 50 25 640 ,7a2c <10 each
— 13 5 1 5° 30336 64oeach 7 ~4 ,
J .. r- a.- 23336 640 each
1 5 2- 50 9 th rownfhip.
16 259 20 i3,*l6 4 deach .» , v
by ,7 524 .7320 640 each 2 4 4J each
18 4C ' 23336 640 each ia 36 6^,leach
19 «' l t " T rt P , iithTownfhip.
2° S % t 86 I^l464o,each iar4
6W eaeh 2.3336 640 each 17a2^ 4 °
the sth l ownfhip. ijjthTownfhip. township.
k 53' iai4 04oeacn J / i i
" e * / v / u iai4 Ac each
-~f_ 6a7 54. ach i7aao64ceach A , L„,i, i
-HI 2 3 a2 5 64 dcK ,3336 640 each 6 s each ' j
* 7atß £ 4 sth Range. t }thTownfhip.
of. 32 33 4| i ,i ft Township. iai4 640cach
kes 7thfownfh,p. jg , £ I?a2 o e^each
% &■s&, - ».*> >!>*&'•* ■>
i. 135 1640esch *3 427 5° 7th Range.
eft- 6 440 ' !0 ift Township.
/ '■* 7G
oon 7 a 14.640cacf _ 30 1 4 1 20 4.
de- i7a2oj6 4 oeach 394 |, 3I ; ;0
the 23336.640 each 640 each idTowafhip.
" 9 thTownlhip. I,e 3 35
— 8 6A °* 32 ?8 4 80 4 6is , -
8 112l 12 30 3,3336 640 cach 5a6 640 each
11 f 4C , 2<i township. 9 296
J3ai4 04c ?acn ioai2 64c each
t . 2 100 20
19320*40 each 14 30
j 23336 64cjeach 17318 64oeach
i. 3d RaTge. 5 456 J 9 14
2d Township? 6 464 80 20 'P ,
15 6 4 0 7 -250 23324 640 each
[g th 16 600 | 8 618 38c
'. for 20 557 50 1 9 "4 6 4 ceach- 6 t a 37
rlt0 " 21322 640 each !7a2o64ceach 4thlown nip.
? of 23 609 123 a 36 640 each "Ml^each
:fcri ; 25136 640esch' 4th l ownfhip. i7a2o 6 4 oeach
" , of 3d Township. I ai 4 640' each 1 3 a^ 6 4cUch
f; 9 18860 17120 6 4o!e3ch fithTownfhip.
10 344 2 3 a 3 « fi4p!each *ai 4 640 each
t*ll » 267 6thTown(hip. '7a20|6 4 0 each
yof 12 152 iai 4 6 4 ole3ch 640 each
until 14 202 50 i7a20640U3ch BthTownfhp.
shall 15 630 2 3 a36 64c|each /"4 6 49 ach
con. i6aiß 64c each SthTownibip. x 7 '^ c ea
19 21750 1a M 640 each »3f 36 640 each f
e di- 20 616 75 i7a2o64oeach 10 Township.
Ter- 21 a 36 640 each : 23136640 each Ia 14 64c each
nited 4thTownfhip.; iothTownfhip. ! 7 a 20 640 each j
1 170 I 1114 640 each *3*36 640 each
igheft ,
a 544 |i7a2c|64o]each! tnTown'lhip. J
©liars 2 32c 23336 640 eacli taI 4P4^ ?RC
l°t ° r 4 450 I2thTownfhip. *7 aa each
5 120 iat4<64c|eacli 23 a ,
dc P°* 6 640 17 a2c 64c each f V h Townfhip.
7 563 »3»3«h 4 oUach I ai 4 J6 4 cjeach
819 64c each 14th! ownfhip. i7 al o 640|each
' P K,V 10 54c 80 iai4|64oteach *3*36 6 4 c each
wittiin 11 17ii X 4 T aC 'j 'ta J^Sch
12H464C e*ch »3136i6 4 oledch| " 4 J4ol.3Cti
nonev 17320640 each i 1 7 4 20 6 4 o|each
i 1 be 23136 64c ;ach 1 ' 23136 640ieich
oiety ; NOTE.
of the THEquantities of Lands in tb« fcverat townships be
ennted ,orc mentioned, are eiclufive'of the Lots reserved by the
■ let, a Un ted Stated and also of those formerly fold - The ag
nd de- grcgate quantities in the feversl townfbirs or fraflional
igduc, 1 parts of townlhips, have been afceVtainedl by aflual fur
-1 tlatlver; the quantities in particuhr lots or feflior.*, hive ]
,if the J jeen 00 other wife afcertaiii«d than by calculation. I
Lands of the United States.
Treafary Department,
Ativufl S, 1796.
Public Notice is hereby given,
L a 0 » tuvvnfliips whieh were furvcyed in pursuance of an
• a Po-iP-reft passed on the twentieth day of
s^ixsjs
. uil '..i the tenth day of February enfumgi unless th_ find
' ouirter townships (ball be foow fold in the manner an 1
8 Z the terms and cor.uitions mentioned : viz.
ift Ihe said ouarter townlhips shall be fold to
- JiJtrheft bidder, but nofale can be made for less than two
dollars per acre of the quantity of land contained in such
q Td ttT TlTe'h 'gheft bidder as before mentioned, mult de
nofit'a* the time of laic, one twentieth part of the pur
chase .money, in the hands of the Treafurcr of the United
gtatcs which will be forfeited if a moiety of the sum bid,
including the said twentieth part, shall not b« paid witlim
thirty days from the time of fa!e.
id Upon payment of a moiety of the purc-i«fe-ms
ney in the manner befor-mentioned, Jie parchajor will
be' entitled to one year's credit for the remaining moiety ;
. and shall receive a certificate describing the quarter town
fliip purchased, and declaring the sum paid on account,
the balance remaining due, the time when such balance
becomes payable, and that the wbole Lan i there.n men
tioned will be forfeited, if the said balance is not then
niid ■ but if the said balance (ball be duly discharged, by
caving the fame to the Trcafurer of the United States,
ther-purchafer or his affigneeor other legal reprefentat.ve,
(ball be entitled to a patent for the said land, on his pro
ducing to the Secretary of State a receipt for such balance
endorfedupon the certificate. But if any purchaser shall
make payment of the whole of the purcliale. money at the
time when the payment of the firft moisty is directed to
be made, he will be entitled to a dedudion of ten per
centum on the part for which a credit is authorized to be
triven ; and his patent ftiail be immediately ihued.
•GIVEN under my hand at Philadelphia, the day
and vear above-mentioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the 'Irecfury,
SCHEDULE
Of Quarter-Townfnips to be fold at Philadelphia, in pur
suance* of the 6th fcAion cf an ad of Congress passed on
thelßthdayof May, 1796.
* * " " "
2L s; c
t. .iTji s s
1 1 ! d « S
* J f5 3 s s
•s r - I % ' <
o o £ < 1.5
2 c § r= JU
zO % &
• H
2 South Ealt 5120
• North East 5120
South Weft J 120
North Weft 5120
* ■ 1 20.480 ,
3 5 South East 5120 *■
No'th East 5120
South Weit 5120
North Weft 5120
■■ " 20,480
7 South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5 12C)
• North Weft 5120
20,480
9 South East j 120
North Eall 5120
South Wefl 5120
' North Weft .5 120
20,480
IT South East 5120
North East 5120
•1 South Weft 5120
North Well 5120
20,480
4 4 South Eall j 120
North East 5120
Soutli Weft Cl2o_ _
Nortß Welt" j 120
20,480
6 South East 5120
1 North East 5120
South Wist 5120
1 North Weft 5120
20,480
8 South East j 120
North East 5120
i South Weft 5120
1. North Well 5J 2°
h 20,480
10 South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
h - North Weft) 5120
h j 20,480
p. 12 South East 5120
h North East 5120
South Weft 5120
r Nottb Weft 5120
fh 20,480
; h J 3 South East 4602 '
:h North East 4654
p. South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
19,496
J" 5 South East 5120 t
c h North-East 5120
oh South Weft 5120
ch North Weft 5120
'P- 20,480
lC £ 7 South East 5120
lt , North East 5120
South Weft j 120
North Weft 51 20
lip"* be- ' 20,480
iby the £ 9 South East 5120
a E" North East 5120
aal'fur- South Weft 5 , 20
», have 1 North Weft 5120
J 1 i — 10,480
«, I j
.2- t <s
J3 <J =
ef -«L' = K *
« -s s r2
eS a «;
C H-» jL> t; -
"o ? »- 3 ■£ "a
. cf 2 «: g 8
or* v- - „
# i 5 : :
I tS t - 3 '
J II South East 5 120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
" 1 20,480
i Xt, South East 5120
1 North East 5120'
' South Weft 5 120
North Weft 5 120'
I —4 20,480
6 4 South East 463P'
North East 4620.
* » South Wed J I 20'
? Norlh Wefl f 120
' - -
„ ! 19,490
6 South East 4730
<- North East 471.5!
II South Weft 5 1 20
j North Weft 51 20 |
;; i — ! 19.%
c 8 East 5 120
1- North £&flj;t 20
" South Well 5 120
I North Weft 5120
ej ! -20,480
>- 10 Sotuh East 5j 20
e > North EaftKi2o
" South WeftiJ 1 20
'o ' North Wcft! 5 120
:r j 20,48b
>e 12 South East 5 120
North East 5 120
iy South Weft 5120 '
North Weft 5120
— 20,480
14 South Eafl 5120
North East 5120
r _ South Weft ji 20
)n North Wefl 5120
20,480'
=; 7 3 South East 5120
Notth East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft j 120 ( ,
20,480
5 South East 5 120
< North East j 120
South Weft 5» 20
North WeA ji2Q
20,480
bt 7 South East j 120
North East 5 120
South Weft 5 120 ;
North Weft 512 c
* v ' —Kift. 51 j&-
North East 51 20
South Weil 5 120
North Weft 120
20,480
/ /ij South East j 120
North East 5 120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5 120
20,480
13 South Ea(l 5120
North East 51 20
South Well 5 120
North Weft j t2O
20,480
15 South Ea(! yi2o
North Eaftji2e
iSouth Weft 5 120
jNorrh Wetl j 120
j - 20,480 |
NOTE
THE quantities of Lands in the several townShip
fore mentioned, are exclnfive of the S:it' ons referv: i V
the United States. The aggregate quantities is tht «
• 1 ■ • - . 1 r "~ f* J
rris the quantities in the quarter tawn&ips, have &«<•
otherwise afcr.ained than by .calculation.
yq,ooo Pieces Nankeen
Of the bejl quality and on rtafonable terms
FOR SALE BY
Philip Nicklin &
August 26. ,—
In the Press,
Andfpcedily will be published, by W. Young,
& Soil, Corner of Second and r
An Apology for the Bible,
In a series of letters addrefTed to Themes > .
of a book entitled The Age of P eafoo, p * ®
being an investigation of triie and fabulous 1 co °
By RICHARD WATSON, D. D. *• .
Lord Biihop of Llanda fl , andßegiuaPre e:.°
ity in the University of Cambridge.
Aug. / -—- — \
A Book-Keeper, h ;
OR Clerk's place is wanted by a■ perfpn I
ficd, and wh'ofe charafler will be
able. Apply to the Printer. t f
C A B L E "STT""
From 16 to 9 i inches, H
Jeremiah IVarder,
July „ r Noran^thTh-ftirareet^
~ FOR SALL,
• A Cemplele Font of i 0 { this
ENtirely new, and yet unopened. The we*
font is about 312 lb. It is from chsrgts.
Wilfoo & Sons,Glafgow, and will be fold a. cost
Also for Sale, a pair of Super Royal Chales.
Enquire at the Office of the Gazette of the "
States, 119 Chefnut-ftreet.
PRINTED BY JOHN FEN^ 0 '
119 —
CHE^SDT-STIfET.
S [Pricf Dollars per Ana*m./