/
of the Huiteujl tUtZS, & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
NUMBER 1192.] TUESDAY EVENING, JULT 5, 3796, [VOl.umf. X.
ivc/jwzrc/r
For Sale or Charter,
aooo Bbls. of floor—fhe may be sent J
to ftaat a small expellee, her fails and rigging being in
very good order—apply to ,
James Campbell, or
George Latimer.
April, *9- - * - -
Snow Hebe.
% FOR SALE, i
The Snow HEBE, e
A faithful Philadelphia built veflel, car
ries 1,3000 bushels of grain or j6do barrels flour, is rea
dy to take in a cargo. She is about four years old.
Apply to PETER BLI GHT. ,
Who has for sale,
ir, Coffee, Cocoa, and Pimento. •
Also, 1
A Parctl of CHOICE PORT WINE. i
. 6 f
~ For Cadiz, • \
011 or a^ollt
j||&' The (hip Hazen, '
ipfg B. Cobb, matter,
. 'jii lleut accommodations for Passengers. For pafTage
a\ ply to Miller and Hoope, at NeW-York; or_to
1;e pr Inter hereof. [June 13. t3 w J_
FOR SALE,
- Car"o of the (hip Catharine, John Farraday, mas
m HLfpaniola, at the wharf of Messrs. Jeff-" & Ro
• aln,
—
156 Hogsheads of SUGARS
5 1 Hogfheads^ COFfEE (
44 Hhds.of Clarified MOL.*SSE:S
74 Biles of Cotton
ALSO FO* SALEj
a sj£~ The said ship,
ffijitV BURTHEN about 24 or 2JOO barrels—
[[ryryj? Strong, well found, and may be sent to
at a fmail expense. Apply to
John Craig.
ix . - £
•,! FOr Hamburg,
* Ifej THE AMERICAN SHIP
: M HARRIET,
5%7 Thomas W. Norman, Commander,
lajkable fine, feft-failing-(hip, with excallem accorti
ns for pafTcngers. A confkkrablepartjof her cargo is
c and ready to go on board, and is expected to fail in 1
For freight or paflagc, apply to the captain on
he lower fidfc of Walnut-ftrcct wharf, or to
Peter Kuhn.
28 V°
T. NOBLE,
* ■ ii'b R O K E R,
PECTFULLY Informs his friends and the
blic that he has removed his office to his house No.
:frrut Street,next door to his former refidetvee, where,
finefsin the line of a Broker, «re faithfully tranf
. d Money procured to any amount at a moment's notice.
ALSO,
- be kept a numerical book of the drawings of all
L tries now extant —For the piirchafe of Tickets, infor-
Ic vilfbegiven asufual. Canal Tickcts in the feennd'
now for sale. From every information received,
ton Lottery will abfoTutely commence in a few days,
e 24. d.t.f.
Mr. FRANCIS,
(Of the New Theatre)
'"\i ES this opportunity of returning thanks fa hi*
lolars and to the public. Mr. Francis intehdsj
etufn from Maryland, to open a public aea
uui>; .or dancing, upon a plan entirely new. He
flatters himfelf that his attention to his pupils hi- I
iherto renders any promises of conducing his future 1
schemes on the most liberal and ftri<fteft terms, of pro- 1
priety, totally unneceflary.
N. B. Private tuition at 11 full. 1
T O L E T,
Ready furniihed, for three or four months, certain,
A GENTEEL three story brick house, No. 70,
North Eighth-flreet. For terms enquire of
Mr'. Francis as abcrve.
June ag. . dtf.
Landing,
This Day* at Willifigs & Fr«uicis's wharf, from the Brandy
wine Miller,
A cargo of Rum & Sugar
from St. Croi*.
Fpr Sale by
John Nixon & Co.
tonpas . >xo
A Polt-Chaife wanted.
WANTED immediately to purchafc, a freond-hand Poft
•Chaife, with Harness for two horses and Brafj Furniture.
It muilbe in goofl coiidinon.
• Esquire at No. 73 south Front-street.
]uly 1 : }3_
Bank of North-America,
July I, 1796.
At a meet ink of theDireflors, a Dividend was declared
of aijc rtR CENT, for the last half year, which wifl
be paid to theStockhold.rs anytime afier the 10th inftsnt.
By order of the Board,
JOHN NIXON, Prcfidtnt.
Urbarma - Mill Seats ,
S" ITUATE in Cecil county, IvlsrylanS, on the banlcio
the ri*er Sufauehanrta, abwt o),e m.le above)
ter, TndTommanling th, w, C r of that
the channel conducting the tnde of
the Mill Seats as to make it eenvenmntto/peak the boats,
ltd MuS be so rnua:cd , to along the,
walls and by water lifts taltein their cargoes. .
TKere is a power fufficieft for many and arty k.nd of
uWul Water and fc iduch may be pllty fa.d m
commendation of this Scite is would b* inconvenient to
cation to the fubfenoa, urjilXD^f.
April 19. ' V
Take Notice,
' I 'HAT the Subscriber intends to ma*e applica
-1 ti»n for the renewal of a Certificate, No. 1609,
| for 4OQO dollars, dated the 14th December, 1795.bearing
interest at 5 £ per cent, from id January, 1796, in the
name of David Dunderdale & Co. of L«:ds, in Yerk
fijire, rjerchants. The fame isfoppofed to have been 101 l
on its way to New York, under cover to Bleecker &
March, of th»t placc, on the 6th of January last-
Thomas M'Euen.
Philadelphia, aid June, 1736. §6w
Wanted,
A YOUTH of fr«m 12 to 15 yean of age, o£ refpc&able
character and conneftioiis, as aa Apprentice t9 the Mer
cantile bufmefs.
Apply to the Printer*
j"" e . .. ii
CINCINNATI.
THE Members of this State Society are herebv notified
that theii Aoniverfary Meeting, for the pu'pofe of elect
ing Officers of the Society, and tranfafting such other busi
ness as may come before thrm, will be held on the 4th day of
July next, in the State Hoqfe, at to o'clock in the morning :
where their punfhial attendance is leq efted. After the bu
siness is finilhed, the Society will adjourn to Mr. O'Ellers
Hotel, in order to celebrate the birth-day of our Fiircoii
and Independence. The dinner will be on the table at
3 o'Clock,- The Members of the other State Socirties of the .
Cincinnati, who may be in this city on that day, are particu
larly invited to join in celebrating it.
By order of the (landing Committe,
ROBERT PORTER, Sec'ry.
June 84
A small Invoice
PER the ship Harriet, capt.Thomas W.Norman, from
Hamburgh, confiding of
Ravens Duck,
Pamafe and 1 Tab]# c , oths
nff* 1 Piaper J
Holland Linen
Cambrics, src.
ADSO,
' A NEAT ASSORTMENT OF
Gold and silver Watches.
Wkich will be difpefed of together or by the package.
Apply to
Isaac Harvey, jitn. - v
No. 5 South Water Street.
June is §jw'
TEN DOtLARS REWARD.
LOS T,
JUNE 15th, between Shippenand Market ftrcets, a red
VOROCCO POCjtET BOOK, Containing a Clieck
on the Bank of the United States, drawn l»y Peter and
Henry Mierckenin favor of Mr. R, Totter, for I/300 dol
lars, and fevers! notes of hand pad due ; together with a
share in tfce New Theatre, and/cver'al other papers of no
contequence but to the owner. '
Whoever will bring it to No. >36 Market street, (hall
receive the above reward.
N.B. Payment of the Check is flopped at the Bauk.
June IS- §
Sales of India Good^.
The Cargo «f the ship Ganges, capt. Tingsy, from Cal"
cutta and Bengal,
CONSISTING or
A Large and general affortmer.t of Bengal aud Madras
COTTON and'SII.KGOODS.
AMON-O WHl?rf ARE
A vartety fine imrked and plain Mufllns,
Dorfcas, Also,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
111 afed bags—and BLACK PEPPER.
For Sale by
Willings & Francis,
No. 21 Penn Street.
June 8 §
fifty Dollars Reward.
LOST,
THE last evening, between 5 2nd 7 o'clock, a large Red
MOROCCO POCKET-BOOK, containing 20 or 30
Pwoteslof Hand (incloted in a Parchment) to a considerable a
moufit. Also, fiindry papers, Certificate* *of 6 per cent,
ilock, a deed of a*lioufeand lot in &c. Bcc.Sct.
The above reward will be paid oft delivering the fame te
the Pi inter hereof. Asitis of great confequcnce to the own
er, it is hoped it will not be wiibhe!<3.
The payment of the Notes is Copped.
t fo" c «9 -
New Hat and Hosiery-store,
WHOLES A l/E AND RETAIL,
By WILLIAM M'DOUGALL,
No. I 34. Market Jlreet,
Third door from the corner of Fourth, south fide
Men's Black American and English HATS, of various qua
lities and prices
Ditto Drabs and Green unders
Ladies' ditto, black, and a large aflortment of fancy do.
Coloured Beavers, With a great variety of elegant and
fashionable Ttimmings
Youths Black and Drab-coloured do.
Children's fancy do
All kinds of Silk, Silk Sc Cotton, Cotton & Thread HOSE
Knit, coloured Pantaloons
Do. Drawers
Do. Breeches Patterns
Silk Gloves
Knotted, coloured do. Cotton
A quaiyfty of Mending Cotton, sorted colours.
(£3" The Hats finilhed in the newest fa/hion.
Jdnc 27. eoim
Rofs & Simfon,
HAVE FOR SALE»
French Checks
Stripes
PrintedjCotfbns /C '
Mwflineta
Table ani M«ptcfns
NankecJis ps an excellent quality per the package, fit
for the Weft India market, and entitled to the Drawback
Grey Ginger in bags
Superior old Sherry In quarter caflcs
A few piptfs and quarter cifks Lisbon Wines
June %% 5 lw
For sale by the fubferibers,
IN PENN-STR.EE7,
T3O quarter Cherts fretb Hyson Tea;
i<io ditto do. frelh Souchong Tea;
Boies Chifla. containing fmail tea- setts of 4J
400 pieces Bandiho«.
Willing fe* Francis.
Janmry ,g 3 taw.
Wm. HOLDERNESSE,
„ No. 76 High Street,
HAS rscfeved, by the latest arrivals from Europe and
the Efc Indies, » well fele&ed afTortment of Silk
Mercery, Linen Drapery and Haberdaftery Goods ; which
he will fell, Wholesale and Retail, on the lowefl terms j
ajwongst which are,
Some fine India muslins embroidered with gold and silver
Superfine Book, Jaconet, aad Mulmul ditto
Do do do do Handkerchiefs
Some extra black colored Perftans
Bandano Handkerchiefs
Long and short Nar.keens
£nglifh Mantuas of the firft quality
: Damask table linen and napkins, very fine
Silk Hoficry, an elegant affortmant
Thead and cotton do
Umbrellas—green silk, oil'ddo. and do cloth
French cambrics, very fiiie *
Iriih Linens, do. &c. &c. June 14 $
I A Genteel family wish to rent a COUNTY SEAT,
_LJL in an agreeable situation, within a few miles of
. Philadelphia. If furnifhed, it would bemore agreea
f ble.
: Apply personally or by letter to Mr. Taylor, at Dr.
• Yeatman's, No. 225, South second street, corner of
1 Second street - June 6. §
{ " Just Arrived,
5 . In the Snow Eofton, James Kirkpatrick, master from Li
• verpool,
5000 B'.tfTioii SALT ;
rca Crater QUEFNS WARE ; and
An Affoitmeiit of SHIP CHANDLERY;
FOR SALE
On board, at Pitie-ftreet wharf. Apply to
, James Campbell, or
George Latimer.
April 3s. f
For Sale,
A Three fiery BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut
street, between tront and Secor.d (IrGets, in whidh
•Mcffrs, James Calbraith & Co. have for many years (and
now do):carricd 011 bilfinefs.
Pot i : en will be given in one month, or i'ooner.
For terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or
HECTOR CALBRAITH.
April 3 I ■ $
Samuel Richardet,
P ESEECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
. Merchants, that he' has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN arid MERCHANTS COFFEE in flic
city of Philadelphia;
The Su-bfcription floom will be furnifhed with all the
diily papers publifted in Philadelphia, Nsw-York, Bos
? ton, Baltimore, together with those of the princip' l ! com-,
mercial cities of Europe —They will be filed
and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
° of Frcneh Liquors; together^with the usual refrefhmeiits,
.1 will at all times b- procured at the bar.
1 Gentlemen mny depend on being accommodated with
the choicdl of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the most
approved Malt Liquors fremLondon and other breweries.
The Larder will be Applied with the prime and eariipfl
produAions of tho Scafon.
Large and small Parties, cr fmgle Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hoursmoft convenient to themselves—a cold Collation is
regui:>frly kept for conveniency, the Bill of Fare to be had
at ths bar.
l£ The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifhed,
the utmost attention paid to cleanliness, and every other
requisite.
5 Simuel Richardet will bfe happy to receive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gratitude for their favotrs, he pledges
himfelf that nothing on his part fhalibe wanting to pre
fer vc that patronage wifti which he has been io diftinguifh
ingly \ionorcd.
Philadelphia, April 19. i
TO B-E LET.
A LARGE Commodious dwelling House, No. 124
Spruce street, with a convenient stable and Coach,
for sale a Chariot but little the werfe for
u se. Jtme i. eotf
> George Dobson,
BKGS leave to inform the Store-Keepers in Town and
Countrv. that Ue has removed from Market-Street to
j N°* 25, fputh Third-street,
where 13 opening a Large and Elegant Affcrtment of the
undermeationed articles—vii.
Superfine London Cloths and -Kerfeyme.rcr,
Yorkshire second Do. Do.
Elastic do. do.
Mix'd and Biue'Coatiogs
Flannclls, See.
Manch.eftcr Prjnud Callicoei.
London Chintz ditto,
Blue and ditto Furnitures,
India ditto,
Long Cloths, Coflaes, Baftas, EaMtilaslf Conjevrems,
4-4 9-8 5-4 & 6-4 Superfine India Book Muslins,
4-4 and 9-8 India Book Handkerchiefs,
4-4 and 9-8 Scotch ditto,
4-4 8c 6-4 plain do. IVluflins,
1 4-4 & 6-4 Britifli Jaconet#,
6-4 Britilh Checks and Stripes,
4-4 India do. do, do.
4-4 ditto Chilloes, Madras Handkerchiefs, Sec.
- A large afToTtraent of figur'di and plain Muflincts,
Quilticgs, Dimities, and Striped Nankeens,
Fancy Waiftcoatings,
Ginghams of the firft Quality, fubjefi to Drawback,
India Nankeens,
Men's White and colottrcd Silk ftocAings.
May 9
_ ' Yazoo Lands.
May te had at the Editor's Office 119, Chefnut-J}rect>
A few Copt«> •'HEVfort of the Attorney
Genetal ot
Charters, Treaties aud othr Documents,
relative to and explanatory of the Title to the Land
lituate in the South Weltetn parts of the United
States, and claimed by certain Companies under a
t law of the State of Georgia, passed January 7th,
'795-
Lottery and Broker's Office,
A"' 64 South Secondflreet,
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery No. 11, are now rea
dy for sale, a Check Book kept for the examination
of Tickets, and Prizes paM, without dadu&ion.
The Subscriber folicitt the application of the Public or
any ot his friends who wish to purchase or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange, or Notes, Houses, Lands,
j Lotts or Merchandize of any kind, or to obtain Money
on deposit of property.
WILLIAM BLACKBURN,
Late Jgenl for the Canal Lottery Company. j
Jane 6.
RECEIVED,
By the Brig Welcome Return, from Savannah,
27 Bales COTTON..
tiy the Schooner Abigail, from Charlejlon,
100 Calks Prime RICE.
1 And, by the Schooner John, from Bojlon,
SEWING-SILKS, various colours,
GIJRRAHS
COSSAHS, and India Bandanno Handkchfs.
For Silt by
N. & J. Frazier,
No. 95, South Front street-
Whc have also on hand, and for Sale,
Pritpe Boston BEEF, in barrels,
WT } WINE S,
Carolina INDIGO, &c. &c.
May 31 row&ftm
A Small Invoice of
CAMBRICS,
Fo Sale, by
N. & J. FRAZIEB,
No. 95, South Front-Street.
June 18. 2w3ta\r.
FOR SALE,
A very Valuable Estate,
CALLED TIVITTENHAM, situate in the
town ship of Upper Derby, and county of Delaware,
7 1-2 miles from Phiiad.lphia, and half a mile from the
new Weflernroad: containing 230 acres of excellent land,
45 of which are good watered meadow, go of prime wood
land, and the rell arable of the firft quality.. There are
on the preniifes a good two story brick house, with 4 rooms
on a floor, and collars under the whole, with a
of excellent water in front; a large frame barn, (tables,
and other convenient buildings ; a smoke-house and ltone,
spring-house ; two good appie orchards, and on4of peach
es. The fields are all la clover, except those immediately
under tillage, and are so laid out as to have th? advantage
of water in each of them, which renders it peculiarly cpn
venient for grazing.
The situation is pleasant and healthy, and from the hjgh
cultivation of the land, the good neighbourhood, antfthe
vicinity to the city, it is very suitable for a gentlemsn's
country feat.
The foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Hafman,
deccafedj and offered for sale by .
Mordecai Lewie,
OA. 9. eo.J Surviving Executor,
China Goobs.
TH E Ship Atlantic, Si'as Sivaine, Commander,
from Canton, will commence the difcharje of her
cargo to-morrow morning at Wslnut-ftreet wharf;
Confifling of
Yellow and white Nankeens of excellent quality
Persian Tafietics, black and coloured
Lustrings, do. (Jo-
Sattins black of various qualities
Sewing silks in aflorted colours
VermiHion in boxes >
Caflia in chests
Quick It! "er in jars
BOHEA, T
SOUCHONG, |
HYSON SKIN, [ v ™
YOUNG HYSON ( rrettileas.
BEST HYSON,
IMPERIAL, J
CHINA WARE, ornamental, with Tablt and T*a
Sets generally afTorted.
WHITE SUGiARS, and a quantity of
First quality Bengal SALT PETRE.
For Sale by
Philip Nick/in & Co.
April 8. t.th&s
} ■ ■ ■ . _ „m _ -
PROPOSALS»
By BIOREN ?s* MADAN,
For publishing by Subscription, that celebrated Work,
1 Godwin's Political justice.
' From the last London Edition.
TERMS!
!. It will be published in twe large volumes, duodecimo.
11. Price to Subfcribers,two dollars,handfomely bound,
to be paid on delivery of the work,
111. As soon as a number of Subscribers appeal, fuffi
oient to defray thc expence, it shall be put to preis.
IV. The names of the Subscribers shall be prefixed.
I"he following Charafler of this wiui
is extratfted from the Monthly Review, f 3ti, 31a, for
March, 1793,
" We have no small degree of pleasure in announcing
the present work to our readers ; as one wh ch from the
freedom of its enquiry, the grandeur of its vie ws, and the
fortitude of its principl-s, is eminently deserving of atten
tion. By this cutoghmi, we would by no means be und"-
stood to fubferibe to all the principles which thr
contain. Knowledge is not yet arrived — <nar degree of
certainty which is requisite, for a--' IWO 10 think a
iike on all fubjedls ; neither jiftaiiguage attained that con
sistent accuracy, which them to convey their
thoughts, even when > Ae y think alike, in a manner
fe&ly corxedt and intelligible to both. Th*£» ditficultie*
ar«-ofily to be overcome by a patient, fnceffant, and bene
volent investigation. 1? ■' '
" Many of the opinionc which this work contains, are
bold ; fojne of them are novel; and feme doubtless are ej
roneoas: —but that which ought to endear it even to those
whose principles it may offend, is the strength of argu
ment adduced in it to prove, that peace and order most ef«
fedlitally promote the happiness after which political re
formers are panting —that as the progress of knowledge
is gradual, political reform ought net to be precipitate;—
violence is dangerous not only to indi
viduals (for that result comparatively would be of small
account) but to the general cause of truth. It is the op
pofiteof this principle that inspires the er.emiesof politic
al enquiry with so much terror ; it is the supposition that
change must inevitably be attended by the turbulence arid
injustice of commotion; and that innovation cannot be
made without the intervention of evils more deftruftive
than those which are intended to be refornud. Under the
conviiftion of this philanthropic fentimctt, of calm and
gradual reform, (which in its proper plact he has fully il
iuilratedj Mr. Godwin proceeds without 'cruple firft to en
quire into present evil, through its essential branches, and
next to demonstrate future good.
" Dividing his Work into eight books and making the
importance of political institutions the fubjefl of
the firft, he begins by an attempt to prove thf omnipo
tence of government over the moral hahits of mankind ;
and that on these moral habits their wisdom, virtue and
I felicity depend."
Subfcriptione received by tic publifhcrs at their
printing Office, back «wf-ife. j j Deik-ftreet, Philadelphia.
.j' J««e 18 Jiweoim'""W" —KB—ww)SHifna in-iw ■ ** 1 — ».
AN EXTENSIVE ASSOR.TMI.NT OF
Books and Stationary,
Wholcfale and Retail, now opened and fo£ Sale by
WILLIAM YOUNG.
iookfrller, No. ?», Corner if Second and Chefnut-J} recti.
AMONG which are FnouJh, Latiw, and Griik
Classics and Dictionaries, Divinity, Law, His
tory, r ravels, Votagxs, Miscellanies, and themoft
efleemed Novels.
WRITING AND PRINTING PAPERS,
Prom the best manufacturers in Europe, and from his ma
nnfa&orj on Brandywine, vit.
Imperial,plain and wave fUtSmall folio post, plain
Super-royal do. do. Ditto gilt
Royrl do. do. BlofTom paper afTorted
Medium do. do. Transparent folio pod
Demy do. do. Superfine and common foolfc.
Glaied and kot-preflisd folfoWlarbled papers.
and 410 extra largr post coarse fafers.
Thick poll in folio ditojdo. London brown, afibrted I
Ditto in 4to. ditto do. Hattecs' paper
Polio wove post, fined""* Stainer,' paper
Quarto do. Common brown
Ditto gilt do. Patent sheathing
Common size folio post Bonnet boards
Ditto quarto, plain Binders' Board*.
Folio and quarto post, gilt,
Alfa, a variety of other Stationary Articles, vix.
Wedgwood and glass philosophical ink flands, well affort
ted } pewter ink chests «f various fiats ; round pewcer ink 1
(lands ; paper, brass, and poltfhed leather ink stands for the
pocket. Shining sand and find boxes, pounce and pounce
boxes, ink and ink powder. Counting house and pocketpen
knives of the best quality, ass ikin tablet and raemoraadum
books. Red and colored wafeis, common file, office ditto.
Quills. from half a dollar, to three dollars per hundred.
Black lead pencils, mathematics! inftraments, &c. &e.
All forts and flies 6f Blank Books, ready made or made
to order. Bank checks, blank bills of CXEhange and notes'of
hand, executed in copperplare, bi is of lading, manifcfU
stamen's articles and journals, ic. icc.
J""e 18 aaw3w
GEORGE HUNTER,
CHE MIST,
No. 114 South Second Street,
HAS for these two years past introduced a newfpceies
of PERUVIAN BARK, called YELLOW
BARK, which after repeated trials by the principal-
Physicians of this city, is now preferred in all cases of
importance that require it, to the best R«d and Pale
Bark. It is a powerful Astringent Bitter, fits well on
the flomach, is certain in itsiffecls, and requires only
lialf the ufoal quantity for a dose.
Many of the citizens of Philadelphia are now ac
quainted with its virtues, the knowledge of which
ought to be extended over the Union. He has a large
fupplyof the Yellow Bark, and a general assortment of
Drugs, Colours, Glass, Dye Stuffs, &c.
LIKEWISE,
Salt Jalaps and Camphor,
By the Quantify.
May 19. *iawjt
" JOSEPH COOKE,
GOLDSMITH Hf JEWELLER, »
The corner of Market and Third-flreets, Philadelphia;
MOST refpeAfully informs his friends and the public,
that he has received, per the last arrivals, a com
plete and general assortment of aim of;
Every Article in his Line;
Immediately from the manufactures of London, Bir
mingham-, and Sheffield, all of wkicH are of the newest
fafhion, and will be fold, wholesale and retail, or the»ow
eft,terms, and the Nota6 of Mr. Robert Morris, and Mr.
JohnNicholfon received in payment at their current value,
N. B. The upper part of the House in which he noVir
Jives to be let, furnilhed or unfurnifhed. law
Twenty Dollars Reward.
RAN away from the Subfcrtber, living near Harrifburgh,
county of Dauphin, and Stateof Pennsylvania, onSun
<Uy, sth inft* A NEGRO MAN, named SAM, about 17 or
18years of age, 5 feet, 7 or S inches high; has no particular
mark, but apt to look down when tharged with a fault. Had
on »rd took away, a home-made cloth coat, and overalls of
(biped jean jacket, felt hat, almost new, calf.fkin
{hoes, and white (hirt.
The above reward will be paid to any person who will se
cure said negro in any goal, so that his master may hear of
the fame, and reasonable charges paid, if brought home to
RICHARD DEARMOND.
June 29 *eodiw
Ten Dollars Reward.
Ran away,
TTTRrE 13d, from Brian M Laughlin, living at Henry
J Clymer'i place at Schuylkill point, a Young Woman,
who passes by the name of Rollt Morrison, low set,
darkish complexion, fmaU grey eyes, about seventeen or
eighteen years of age, had on a dark-colored short gown,
and linfey petticoat. She {Vole and carried away a trunk
and a considerable fumof money, and a great many other
articles. Left behind her a cloak of coating linejl with
greciv baize, which is foppofed to be stolen. The owner,'
by proving property may have it. Whoever lodges her in
any goal, so Jha may be brought to profecutiou, lhall
receive Ten Dollafikßeward. —
June jaws* " BRIAN M'LAUOHLIN.
For the use of Schools.
Xomkins's Text, Round, and Running
- band copies.
JUST f,l c by Vs. Young, the corner of
Second and chcfnut -^. c(si lnd , Qrmrod, No. 41
Chcfnut-ftreet. Price of imprelTions on fine paper, r
dollar. Common, 75 cents. in a ftyie fuperioi
have been formerly engraft* ; n iTim Uniled States,
and not of the kind import^fron^E^opc.
Junry>. ' U
The Old Soldiers
/~\Fthe Pennfylvan'a Jineof the army (both officers and
\jf prir«iM)are informsd that there appears in the MaiTi
fschufetts ?nd Connetlicut papeu a design to tak'e from them
nearly all theirlandt over the Allegheny. Long publication!
have appeared at Stockbridge and Hartford, fctting up the
Conneflieut claim (though exiin<;ui!hed by the decision at
Trenton) foas to take the following lands eiven by PtnnfuL
vania to the army.
DONATION LANDS.
Difttift No. i, about i-4jclaimed as Connecticut's
Do. No a. The whole claimed as ditto.
Do. No. 3. The whole claimed as ditto.
Do. No. 4. Thewhule claimed as ditto.
Do. No 5. Tht whole claimed as ditto.
Do. No. 6 The whole claimed as ditto.
Do. so. 7. The w hole claimed as ditto.
Do. No. 8. The whole claimed as ditto.
Do. N>. g. The whole claimed as ditto.
Do. Ni 10 The whole claimed as ditto.
The Court of "ommiffioners was a renUt con/fituted atithe
fjy —There wen among them two raf.trn members—They
were all five unanitem. What (hould be thought of the Con
ieQlcut claimants ly every friend to the pcace and the laws of
this country. ?
July 9, gt
~~ To r sal e .
ArOUNT of BtEVIER, half worn ; about four hun
dred weight. Enquire at the Office of. the Caz'ette
of tfct United StatejjjNo. 119 Chcfniit-ftrcct. 5
■■ "
Philadelphia, -
TUESDAY EVENING* JutT 5, 1796-
(n5" The pi ice of this Gazette is eight dollart a
year. Subscribers whose papers are sent per post
are charjcd one dollar yearly in addition for enclo
sing and diredting. Six months fubfeription to be
I paid in advance.
Advei tifements wiil be promptly aßd conspicu
ously publilhed, at 50 Cents a square for the firft
insertion, and 25 Cents for every continuation.
On Sunday tad about 10 o'clock A. M. a man
jumped off a schooner at Samuel Penrtife's wharf,
Southivark, (whether with an intention of bathing
or to end his life is uncertain.) He
fink by several persons, none of whojn took any
tlcps to;five him. His clothes were lefj at Phipps's
tavern, Almond street wharf—he was! ftippofed to
bea'tailor, having raeafures in one of hij pockets.
Any person having a right to the clothes uny have
them by applying to said PWpps.
To do good, and to communicate forget net."
We ate assured, and every benevolent mind mud
exult at the recital of the fa£i, that the fubfeription
c in New-York for the relief of our fuffering breth
ren in Chnrlellon, very soon amounted to Thirty
II Thousand Dollars; only a part of the molt
wealthy of th» citizens had been applied to—the
fubfeription was going on, and it was expc&ed to
c double that sum before it was finifhed. What a
f noble ! What a spirit of emulation mud
4 it excite in other cities ! This is the way to
lighten the burthen of heavy misfortune, to raise
the desponding heart, and once mote to "open the
windows of hope to the mind, which the sweeping
element had stripped of the produce of the indus
try of years. There is a most glorious fpir.it of
s philanthropy and benevolence which pervades this
r continent —On ths- prcfeot occasion it will un
-1 doubtedly manifeft itfelf with distinguished luflre.
_ Every avenue thro' which this benevolence can be
| cOndu&ed (hould be opened. Jtet us remember
, that thelofsof the citizens of Charleston is at le-ft
half a million sterlinc ; large contributions
will be neceflary to realize to all the fufferers re
-1 Ipeftively a small proportion of this sum.
; Every religious and corporate society will of
course turn their earliest attention to the business,
and the good work will be recommenced by the
governors, magistrates and ministers of th?t gospel
which direAs us " to weep with those that weep"
•• to call our bread upon the waters, for after many
days we shall find it."—The cup of misfortune
goes rcund, and it is not in human wisdom always
to put it by.
' t The twenty firft annivetfaiy of our Indeppnd
. enceasa Nation was yesterday celebrated in this
City. The Day was nlhered in with ringing of
Bells, filing of Cannon, and other demonstrations
. of joy. At twelve o'clock, the society of the Cin
cinnati, the officers of the state government, and
the militia, met in the state-house, and from thence
proceeded to the house ofthe governor,to congrat
ulate him upon the occalton. After which they
partook of an elegant cold collation in the govern
or's garden.—Public dinners were provided in dif
ferent places in and near the city, where the citi
zens and uniform corps nffembled, to felicitate each
other on the return of that anniverfjjry which
marked a new era in the Annals of Man. The
birth day not only of the U. S. but of the Free
dom of the Universe.
Died, on Friday last at Germantown, Mr. Antho
ny Armlrijler, Printer, formerly of this city, aged
■ 79 years.
The Courtier Francais speaks of an atrocious
maflacre, recently committed in the quarters cf St.
Louis, du Botgneand Gros Morne. That almost
all the Whites who dared to continue there had
been aflafiinated, The authors are not mentioned.
Mean jime it is pretended that this new crime is
committed by those whom Lawaux has denounced
as the enemies of France.
The public voice point* out Piucbinat as th« an
| thor.
»V THS
PRESIDENT
t OF THE
UNITE D-s T *-T ES.
Wbereas, by the firft article of the terms and con.
ditions declared by the President of the United
States, on the seventeenth day of Giftober, 1791,
for regulating the mateiials and manner of build
■ ings and improvements on the lot* in tt e c fly of j
Wafliington, it is provided, « that the ooter and
f party walls of all houses in the said city, (hall be '
; built of brick orftone and by the 3d article of
, the fame terms and coniitioßS, it is declared, «' that
, the wall of no house (hail be higher than forty feet
to the noof, in any part of the city, nor (hall any be
lower thatnhirtj five feet, on any of the avjnues."
And whereas the above recited articles have been
, found, by experience, te impede the settlement in
„ the city of mechanics and other., whofiYtreum
n nances do not admit of creftiog. bouses of the
» lcription authorised by the said regulations. It is
t therefore declared, operation of the said
- -TOa d .' h J'j and
the Hereby suspended, until the f„ft Mon
day of December, in the year one tWfand eight
hundred, and that all the houses which (hall be e
recled in the said tity, prior to the said fad M on .
day of December, one thousand eight hundred,
conformable in otherrefpefts, to the
toreiaid, (hall be considered as lawfully eredted.
Given under my hand this twenty fifth Hay of
June, in the year one thousand seven hundred
and ninety lix.
r GEO. WASHINGTON.
; Walhington, Commissioners' Office, 28th fuue
[ v. v J 9
THOMAS MUNROE, Ck.
From a late London Peter.
■ nl 7 ct f W r ] "\ 3 Boa,d of
: ? xV S 'f C j C " for ~U" f e four da y s . fining at
' r ,hc liotfe Guaroe, 111 confgltati4n for the |>urp D fc
- ,\A
* 0 f adopting an entire new form of dxefs aed accou
trement* for the Cavalry.
The Swords are to be lengthened, and the V-ar
biiies (horteucd.
a The W aidcoats are to reach a good way a own
t the thighs.
i- The Boots are to be made so ftroiig between the
e calf and the thigh, as to resist the droke of a iabre.
Helmets indead of bats, in a new form, are fug
i- geded : they ar« to clasp at the chiu, like the old
1 fadiioned fi'pnting-caps.
An alteration likewise is to take place 15 tha lad
dies, and indeed in almost of the accou
n treroents and dress.
—
r Many people are misled by the pompous found of
the French Republic having iflued forty thjufuni
y million: of livres, in a%oats. Theminifterif l writ,
s '<rrs never fail to take advantage of tins eircum*tanc<*
5 and to rjprefeni thedebt of France to be so im
. menfe that it mull lead to a national bankruptcy,
e —What does the fiun of forty tfioufand millions ol
livrcs in afiigoats I<"ke ia pounds sterling. Taking
the Louis a-. 6000 livres, it is not seven millions
fterfing !
\ There is a set of phrases of which our inlnifters
1 are so fond, that they never fail to make use of
them upon every occasion.—Thus, Mr. Pitt has
f his exiting ; his relations of amity and
i Peace } rnd his renewals of theprejfure npon Francs.
, Mr. Wikdham is remarked for his use of vigour be
, yondjhe'l.aws ; His acquitted felons ; for being not
j scratched by the war ; and for killing off.
\ GAME LAWS.
The following is the fubdance of the principal
. claufesof the new Game-Bill.
, After .dating the a£b to be repealed, it ena&s,
' that every owner and oceupier of land (hail
p have liberty to hunt, course, and kill hares, pheaf
, ants, and partridges, found, sprung or darted, on
the grounds by him so occupied
Game-keepers, however duly authorized, arc to
be pnnifhed if con»i£led of Healing the game.
The punishment of poachcrs is to be infti&ed,
and with fume new fererity. For the firfl of
( fence, the puni(hment is commitment to the county
gaol, foi space of ( ). For the second offence,
the house of correction, and hard labor for a (pace
p to be agreed upon.
I Cr DERBY ASSIZES.
I U What mod particularly engaged the attention of
J the public was, a charge againtl a woman of the
_j rtame of Ann Hoon, aged 25, for the wilful mur
-1 der of her infant child, about fourteen months old;
J the circumQances of this murder were as follow :
on Friday last this poor creature, who ia the wife
of a labouring man, was about to heat her oven,
and being (hort of wood, had broken down a rail
( or two from the fencing round the plantation of a
- gentleman in the neighbourhood ; some of her
t neighbors threatened her with a prosecution, and
told her (he would be transported for it.
1 his so much alarmed her mind, and the idea of
. being separated from her child, whom (he had al
ways appeared remarkably foad of, so wrought on
her imagination, that (he formed the horrible deiign
of putting her to death, in order that, by surrend
ering herfeif into the hands of justice, (he might
be executed for the murder, and so be forever re
: united in Heaven to that babe whom (he hadioved
more than life. As soon, therefore, as her hus
band was gone out to his labor, (he proceeded to
put this diabolical design into execution : (he filled
a large tub with water, and taking the child in her
arms, was about to plunge it into the yvater, when
. the babe, smiling in its mother's face, difavhned her
for the moment, and fee found herfclf unable to
commit the honid fad. She then lulled the babe
( to ileep at the brcr.lt, and wrapping a cloth round
it, plunged it into ike tub, and held it t»der water
till hfe became extinct , ,h« B took it%,t of the
I tu >i and laid it on the bed, and taking tier hat and
cloak, locked her street-door, and left her key at a
( neighbor's for her lmlhand when he (hould return
from his labor : die then proceeded to walk eight
ornuie miles to a -qiagiftratc, and, requesting ad
. m :7 on to hlm > to 'd Km the whole story, concluding
with an earned desire immediately to be executed.
She was tried this morning, and many drong in.
fiances of fan. t y for some year, pad tppeiW
the Jury feund her—M/ Guilty. /
BATH.
Yefteiday at the New-Rvoms, after several con
ted, between Mr. Chabas a„A Mi. Galindo, in
1 . K 3 Vanet >■°fn«nauvr« ; the
'to M S ad r emo ' dIC D ' E ° n ,bod - opposition
,to Mop.. Maifon, the, mod powerfM aitapornft of
f Mow St. George, where tl,ufe two marten of the
t jf defence adomfhed a numerous let of fpe&a
---| tor, with their fc.«nce and acuity. The female
■ Chevalier, in the 69th year of her age, ii not leco*-
ered of the (train m her wnft . but Mr. Delaunay,
the young Lngliih profeffor, fenced along time with
Mons. Maifon, and acquitted himfelf f 0 admirably
the general .pplaufe of » brilliant audi
The quantity as ,ice disposed of by the Agent
to the provision committee at the Town-UU every
Tuesday and Friday, at 3d. a pound, has Wreaf
, rapid.y from s oolbs. to 3 ooolbs, each day,
!
- THE MJRQpIS TOWNSHEND'S BIRTH
- afltrrobled at Ha,r^ S) in G^of-dr^D^
r t'7 that
1 rendered that country when Lord Lieutenant Thjf
was the twenty-eighth return of a J Jh J
been thus g»,cfully celebrated, but never X
• S el;;; P y rctt: umber and of
; Th .^RPOOL,
eft 'f w 7 °« the public to le!lrn th; urther
■ effects of thofc viftones, i, naturally grfat ; the
general opinipn iecms to be, thn the/will force
i- either vlie einp«ior or :lv« or
both, to :m immediate peace. It is i.«.t f<>
. tilt nuirber of men that they have killed, and taker
as the fmpreffioo it will make on a difaffe&ed cou. 1
n try. The Piedmoßtcfe peasantry are to a man rr e
for revolt, and all Ittbordination js likely to be de
e flroyed by a blow so terrible—The fir ft (Feeling of
the king of Sardinia, therefore, w iH i, e to
. himfclf by and it will not be iucunlift
d ent with the hereditary politics of Tin in to Jiifc
to a proposition of an alliance with the French
- far the reduflion of Aotlrian Lombardy. At
- least, it is likely for the emperor to dread such ;i
cotnpaft, and after fitch a footing gained by the
x French, we fufpeft it will be a race of conning,
f who stall be the firfl to make their peace with :t,iu
ij conquering enemy Lor Jan Evening Chronicle.
i 111 confluence of the reiterated of
1 government, the senate of Venice has
at lad ordered Louis XVIII instantly to quit
Yirona,as well as the whole territory of Venice.
The fate of tliTs unfortunate prince is truly dif
trefling. At fird obliged to quit tha court of Itfs
father-in-law, the king of Sardinia, he is now &!fo
expelled from his retreat. The cabinet of Vienna
has prohibited him in the mod positive terms, to
enterthe Audrian territory, and has also threaten
ed to difhand the army of the Prince ®f Cottar,
diould he attempt to ds so. Thus banished fain
his own dominions, driven out of those wluV
long to the princes of his family, and prev
from seeking flutter in the proviheefi of the v
princcs of Italy, by the fear of exposing tl . t..
I the resentment of the French Republic, whe<e,'is lie
now to find an nfylum ? Op a review of f ;na?y
perfecutionj to which the defendants of tlx ror
ofFrance have been exposed, we surely ma> »: \\.
lowed to a(k, what then is now the objef f
war ?it cannot be the restoration of royalty, as .
unhappy French king finds no asylum from he
governments on the continent.
The French fay he mud now look to F. ugh no,
and get a palacejind an[ ertjbjifhment at liv- ;~r
John Birfl, tome FreiidS papers add, that it
repaying the compliment, as France gave an as))
to the exiled Stuarts and the Royalists wf\p Sol!
Ed his eril fortunes.
The quartern loaf was at iod. April 30
[Further London accounts to.moi-rnu._j
WORCESTER, (Mafc.) June 29
ANECDOTE.
A young gentleman, the outside of who • hea _
was, by far the bed part of it, defiied a y< ootfla
dy where he boarded to dress his hair Sh com
plied, «nd after spending, as Ihe thought fu?\; nt
time upen it, deiired to know wliether it . d
him—He went to the glass, and observed i it
needed aliltle alteration—die immediately m -tl c
proposed amendment, and then_\»ifhed to I
it would do any better. He replied that it aid,
but that still there was one lock which was lit
quite afcit should be. She with much good nature
arranged the offending lock in itsptoper -pv
'• Very well," exclaimed he, looking in the
with much fatisfaflioirat his own appearancc, " it
does verjr well now." This head," h.., put
ting histiand upon it, « this head I won'.'! not
give for any lady in North America." '• - L
you had been at the Siege of *Samaria," ft
" you would have stood a chance (o have gott
pieces of silver for it."
*2. Kinrs iv 25. And there <was a greet fnrtii-it
i* Samaria >• and behold they besieged it, until an
ajft head was fold for four score pieces of silver,
NEW-YOR'It, July 2.
"Frojn the Dominica Chronicle of June 2, received
yefteiday.
V* e to what we dated in ouj lad,
relative to at Trinidad ; rhat by a
gentleman at rived we are afltired that
»o mifebief of consequence had happened previous
to his departure the 20th tilt, exccjst what bow and
then proceeded from nightly rencountres of the
OitMi of'bur ships of tsar on the daiion, and the crews
two republican privateers, who had taketl
fjtelter in the town, after the dedrtnJUon of their vef
ftis by our brave and vigilant cvuifers : further that
/ such prudent steps had been taken by governor
, Chac.on, and so great moderation adopted on the
part of the English coiiiniander, capt. Vauglian, as
not to leave a doubt of t{je colony's being redored
to its wonetd date of tranquillity. It is alio to he
observed that the embarkation of the Emigrated
French Royalids is imputable rather to a premedi
ated intention, of embracing the fird favorable oc
canon, and which then offered of participating of
the glory of the present campaign, than to an ap
prehension of any iofidious enemy at Trinidad.
We have delayed this Gazette, in the expecta
tion of official information from St. Lucie, to this
island, but hoac having as yet been forwarded, we
ourselves of the intelligence obligingly'eom
municated to us by a mod refpe&able friend, just
arrived from the head quarters.
. surrender of that island teok place at the
time, we have already dated, but the garrison ob
tained terms, permitting them to marcli out with
\ '3*l °f war, and lay down their arms on
the Glacis.
in number, upwards of 2opo men of
■» e crptieni, of which, there were near 400
w ties ; these are all embarked on board of prison*
'P» in Uie Calcnnge, and are to remain uniila con
voy iaiis, which is fixed for the !d of August next.
the surrender, and probably whild
W H.fl. ? pl,ulaticn were nr gociating, about
\ SSer" Z * fr " m ,he htC garrison, being
fervit r ' J n '®' an, * orc °l'red people formerly in our
he l ° f the Prench reached
plenTvof a' B ®° u^r '®re quarter, and having a
trouble before "f" ma^fiive fotne
woorh°b 400 nen ' a ""° escaped into the
W beer7 Cn t ' ,a ' fh " and "«« ! thefc
e' ,-ho at Ce , rUrro " nded the G f rm 3 n Y,gh-
U r l, B of u5' n,O I V' k ft Same ' Th
famefstt, ii: reft caanot elude theA num'-ier oftlse Cte. tie BouiiL-'s emigrant
c^rpshaving def-rted from 3 poll of importance to
the enemy in the night ; the genera), by day break
the next morning, re-imbarked all the relt of the
corps, to the universal joy of the army. They are
to return to England.
Some of those, with two British and other de
serters, having fallen into oil" hands, were hanged
together, in full view of the British line.
We have 'ol about 600 m~i, in killed, wound
ed arc! ; the officers are not yet ascertain
and 27th regiments are said to he
H .. co'.iii rable fuffcrers ; two of our pariet
i . .'• to have been'cut off are found to be in
r disagreement between those who
. ;et and army rendezvoused at St.
utiniqtie, the enemy at St. Lucie
r ,...•■■ ! planters in the island, who had be
>in them, to come into Morne For
t :>0 : : been released and sent to the plan
, :n , ir wives, children, and (laves.
"Chi - >c' fay they have left 700 in killed ;
d in their hospital wounded and
W /ick. to their having expended all
>':>•> itr . >'i , that they so soon surrendered.—
The > x ed no supplies of that article, and
c< c. 1 0 the neceflity ofbreaking up the
t them, for to return onus,
m, acy : xupplied their friends in Grena
nts, and defended themfelyes with
; and ammunition ftgl_es« abandoned
".G . vart when •he''retreated from the
V ll - r ". I ' . '
' mmanders and troops seem to con
made by the republicans, as high
'iita' ' heir courage and conduct, which
generous terms granted to them,
irt of the town called Cadries, is
r fire : the enemy fortified it
oh 1, and 80 men, who defended it
re taken in th* plaee.
ril.Th to
A" '■yi*
il >i: is to be left in command there,
the reft of the army are embar
■ ediate relief of Grenada and §t.
ir
Si « arrived, but we know not with
A i : a complete regiment of Hessians
t Tie time, and it is said that 5000
t? as are to follow, with a fleet to rc
-11 the station.
i' : . i packet is arrived, and gives no
ar. rnc; : j the war.
v\ 11, IS DAY's MAILS.
■ *FOLK, June 27.
r Swallow, capt. Moore, arrived
, in 11 days fiom Cape Nichola
& ,»• . ! iat the English on jhe ipth of
tard, about 10 miles from the
Mjle, reck . ■ eof the mod healihy spots in the
v ' - fle they inteod building barracks
>r aecc iation of the sick troops ; the'pof
t has opened a communication
v »rt» of the country, and will ena
more dily toj.btain provisions ; there
refpe&ing the loss fuffained in
■>ove place, and none that could
A conlidcrable force had gone a
r ihe attack of which place they
1 (chooners as gunboats, with a
24 pounder in the bow and another in the stern.—
*■ A fleet of 25 fail of transports arrived at the Mole
froth Barbadocta fewjdays before the-Swallow left
there. was lying at the Mole
with 7 fail of.file line, a (loop of war, and about
300 transports.
By the SwaUptv we learn that the account of. the
loss of the Argonaut is premature.
The Coßcorde frigate, which lay J ere for forjie
time, failed from the roads.yesterday.
Capt. in the brig Friends, saw th; Fly
ing Fish privateer latl Tuesday noon, to the south
ward of Delaware Capes, fteeting to the E. after se
veral fail then in .fight.
Last Saturday arrived in Hampton Roads the
Spencer sloop of war. In the lat. of Savannah, 8
days ago, ("poke the schooner Neptune, of Savan
nah, 10 days from St. Thomas's and 12 days from
St. Vincent's, who informed them that Morrie For
tune was ftorm*d by the British oirthe 26th May,
and carried. The loss on the part of • the British
was 1200 men killed and wounded ; that of the
French ij;as said to be B®o killed, and near twice as
many wounded. General Abercrotnbie, with 500
jnen, arrived at St. Vincent's the day the Neptune
failed from the nee.
Extract of'a letter from Gape Nichola Mole to a
gentleman in this town, dated June r2th, receiv
ed by the Swallow.
" Tliii place is very field*, but not so much as
Jamaica. The British troops two days ago made
an attack on Fort Bumpard, and took it ; ihey
killed about two thousand Brigands, bin the British
loft a great many men by fatigue, in all about twQ
hundred.
PORT OF NORFOLK.
ARKirhD.
Brig Friends, Calvert t Philadelphia
Sch'r Swallow, Moore Cape N. Mole
CLEARED.
Bryj Mary, Hollrnfbe Madeira
Sch'r Nancy, Fcgan • W. Indies
NEW YORK, July 4-
The twenty firft auniverfary of American inde
pendence, still finds us in the uninterrupted enjoy
ment of everything rr.oft dear to human natute.
While half the world remains affiled by the def
lating hand of cruet warfare—we a*e at peace I
There f no puffible date either of political or
domestic fife, but what is fubje&cd t6 some ob
tr\idir»<j carps and c'ifquietudes. Dn', »hat the
trivial emHsriafTrp.eitU we have experienced fs u
na' ion, dm i'lg the pfefent almost general conflict,
to i hf tre
mcrnJoiisconvuilions which are.flili aguat- I
ii-j; .ti.v Ei>K>.p«ao wdfld i While it is njoft factrc*
\ « ---
t yto he lam r.te;! that .Tuch H:»hap»-y events exist,
0 «n which, to nviks yie compa: iloti,-it is on inch
c ground alone that we are, in any«fi, enabled tm
e ly to estimate a more liappy (late.
e But few words are Yequifite to describe our en
viable situation. We can contiaue to trace, |-~ re,
- the firmer establishment of equal rights, and equal
d laws—the extension of knowledge —ar.d the utmost
advantages attained by our enterprising and indus
- trious exertions.
n «' We behold our plains unbounded waving with
e " the gifts of liai vest ;
» " Our seas with commerce throng'd,
n " Otir busy ports with cheerful toil."
0 Whilst so much of our political hoii/.on is dill
clear, let us not, on this aufpicio'uo day, ,fei.ze the
. tekfcopic irlafs, to descry the few dartT"Clouds
e which the dillant tempell may have driven toward
■- our borders.
On an occasion Uke the present, the mind \>f an
1- American fhouM be engrofied by the inviting prof
peft—the prosperity of his country ; and, with a
; cheerful heart evince that pratitude, which is due
d to a beneficent a;id fupeiintendin Providence!
11
The Advices from Ireland, by the way of Bos
ton, speak of the probability of a rupture between
Great Britain and Spain. This event has been
' ft>me time looked for ; and the English, not wit h-
(landing the aftertions of the Spanish court, have
j been keeping a watchful eve on its motions. One
„ of the causes, however, as Rated in the Irifli ac
counts, namely, the afiiilance to be given by Spain
to the Turks in the Black Sea. in cafe of a rupture
between them and Russia, is partly removed by our
j adviccs from Hamburgh.
| These date that an answer had been given Ijy the
Ottoman Porte to the RuSian minider, rsfpetting
t their armaments, which were declared to be fo'tly
£ intended against a rtbel Pacha, who had been some
time in arms. Whether any other causes exist for
a a rupture, and vriiethcr the Spa nidi iuUi t ni.iy not
"He induced to join agafnft the powerful confederacy
of England, Russia and Aultria, some further and
(hort time will prohal ly clifclofe.
* By the Fair American Capt. Tred .eel] in 56 days
f:om Hamburgh, we received papers to the 29th of
1 of April.' The mod material articles of intelligent
g in them are, the anfwei to the Ruffian Mmifter at
3 the Ottoman Porte refpe&ing the armament ofthr
Tur J;s, whi«h we have noticed above, a refutation
of the reports ps 6c,000 men having, been pu"t by '
the k?ng of Prussia, under the command dt the 1
Duke of Brunfwick, to prefcrve the line of demar. '
agreed to with the French—that 2 very con- 1
1J body of troops had been embodied by the
Swedish general Baron Klingfpoor 4 n Finland; al
tho' his advances were cor.lidcred as premature by '
his government —that the Arch Duke Charles was
on a visit at- Vienna from the Audi ia# armies— |
1 that the French were advancing towards 1
' —and vliat every movx-ment and preparation'on
' both fides was leading so an immediate renewal cf
; hortilmYs on.the Rhine.
Tra'uflations will be made of what may appear
1 defcrvirg notice in these paper(u*% '
Our London accounts liate that th? (ei'-devam )
1 Chevalier BERGERO T, thf brave ccmmandet of
the Virginie French frigai; t «as to be immediately (
offered in exchange for gallant Sir Sidney
1 Smyth.
' Later accounts from Paris, received in Lomhm
on ihe 2 1 of May, confirmed the vjftories gained l>y
the French in Italy.
Saturday afternoon arrived the fhipFair Ameri
can, capt. Tredwcll, days from Hamburgh.
Capt. Trtdwell fpokeun the 7tii of May, the
fliip Columbia, capt. Killey, of N 'v-York, oilt t
38 diy3, bound to Covv'rs, Start Point in light.— •>
May to, spoke brig Polly of Sa.lem from Lvfhon,
bound to London, off llie Liaard, June 14, ipokr
ihe (Hip Bviftol, capt. Robinson of New-York, 15
day* o«T, long. 53J 00. for Amflerdam.
Left the following veflels at Hamburgh.
George RanfelHon of N. Yo:k
AnVonia, Lambert, do'.
Patty, Cams.bell, do. *■
Bark Friends, ——,
Ship Harmony, Moore,' ' c
Statifa,jEd wards, Ponfmouth t
• Thr«e ITNends, Bradford, Bicllon-
Snow Two Friends, ,
Ship Elinor;.,.lftiAwood,
Brig Courtri®, Stephens, '
Ship , Macphetfon, . ' Philadelphia
George and Wm. Dring, Rhodc-Ifland, bound up !
the Eall
Columbia, Leffingwell, Kennebunk S
Schoorfer Fair Lady, Brucp,
Brig Neptune, 1-, Salem
MARINE ,
Arrived at t/jis-'f'ort.
Ship Fair American, Tredweli, ; ' Hamburgh'
Three Sifters, Wood, , * Greenock <]!
Thomas and An*, Moore, BaltirtKjre
Chatham, Sammi, PorfTmduth £0. e. j
Schr. Parthenia, Cobb, Montego-Bay, J ara . 4
Sloop Armenia, Bliss, Cliarleao*
Arboriginal, Swartwput, Edenton ®
. hi
Yesterday afternoon arrived here, the fqjp CMtham,
captain Sammis, from London and Porthnouth. Jsy J '.
tiis vessel, the Editor ha: received a Ixmdon Paper uo rc
to the THIRTEENTH OF MAY. To morrow's P c
GazetWwill furnifh our readjrs with the moil material f P
intelligence it contafnf, whi\ want of time obliges us u '
to omit this day.
A gentleman who came pafienger in the Chatham,
communicates the following particulars :
" The themoft interelling kind con- T
ccrnmg the Wit on the Continent of Europe, is the c.
total defeat of die Atft-Un and Sardinian armies. The ?
loss of the allies vas upwards of 7000, with an Avf
tnan General, and 40 ftld p, P ces tiken.' The iOiecia] tc
ennfequences of thk vi Vy/ are the total detachment q<-
of the King of the confederacy, A
his fending a Miniiier to Aris, te firpplicatc such terms
as the liberality 01 tbe Frtjch nation would grant. «
The British lquadron ovayr {poke the Chat- "
ha»h-111 40, 10, ;,c. (onse time, and 7
took two of our paffengersfrom cn board, ht-t, after
extßiinatiun retwr.ed therrt 'J his fleetifconfi'fttd of ' if
Lr Brocquet, Thetis, Truly,TlufTuV, ind" arvochei#
name unknown They fait} that the whole Wilron
' cmi'.flcd of ton fail. 1 j >
* '- v\ e* ■■•v.''-..- • •*• \ *£
r T -.*!?■" -vw •• ■• ;&■- . .
I, t J <in? i ■?," ip&e I'iw')' Cir vmr, ot* Portfianuth, fron
(, Ifew i'orkj out days, hound to Falmouth.
ftrivefend, May ro.
This day palled by, the Bald Ejif'e, Atkins, from
Boflon, and the Fritndlhip, Mouider, New-York.
LATEST FROM EUROPE.
>1
? BOSTON, June 28.
*' The Irilh papers received hy capt. Stinfou, rofi
tam several proclamations for apprehending rioters,
of IVvenl descriptions, and relating melancholy cir
cnmllance6, of violence and murder committed by
them.
11 DUBLIN, April 5-0.
The-fp«cu!ations ou linen tor the Spartifti and
American markets this year, exeecd any'fimilir j
instance (mce the commencement of the war.
The proprietors of the Wexford bridge at a isle [
j- meeting, unariimoufly agreed to pay Mr. Lemuel :
Cox, of Maflachufctis, (America) 10001. and I
made him a 100 and a pi«ce of •
le pi ite value 29 guinea's,
1 he English Mi'nilfcfy have received certain ad- '
vices, that at lcaft the principal part of the lirlk Dutch
p_ fleet ip fafeljr moored in Brest water. It is fuppo- 1
f f d a detachment of it has gone to the East or Weft
n ludics
-- May 4] p
r a Our last letters from London advise, thatarr or
ie der had beerv i(Tued hy the Admiralty, fiif aji im
s< mediate levy of 5000 seamen, by impress other
n wife. Th's peremptory order is faio to be
j lequence of communications made by the last "Co
ir runna mail, that determinations hostile to Britain,
hnd takeo place in the cabinet of his Catholic Ma
,e >«r-. ; t ' -N
g I hey tvrite from Alicartt, that if the threatened*
y vvat between RufTia and the Potte actually takes,
e place, a fleet of 20 ship" of the line will fail for Car
>r 'hagena, to second the operations, of the Turkish
,l f<l!iadron in the Bfack Sea.
y Should the above drci dful event . come to pass,
£ j which frotr the prefect profpeft of affairs is highly
probnbk, we muii of rourfe, take part with our
s ally the Empref» of Ruflia, a cifcumftanee that must
t f render a rupture with Spain inevitable.
t When the hill oiiah, ift future'zges, (hall recoidl
t the trnnfaftions of the present time, he mnft cer
t tainly be at a lbfs to account why the great snd
n mighty empire of Brit;:*; was so eager to form alii
v a nets v.-t.h nations that fa far from being of advan
e tage, conflantly drained her of her bed blood, and
. of the trcafures which the indultry of her people acJ
quired. JF
. There was a report circulated lafl night of the
French having inker) pofleflion of Genoa. We do
not believe that any intelligence, of such an event
s 'laying occurred, lies been received ; but that the
. French can, and that they- will make themftlves
matters of Genoa we have every resfon to believe.
! 'July 5.
AWJVCII AT THIS- PORT.
i - i'gL •'*
J. Charles,'Bcll (:i Liverpool, 70
•••>2 3ff.:noah, Montego B«t7'26 i ~
Schr, TrySJjSHarid/ Alexandria, 13
Weymouth, New-York, 4
Farmer, Confer, Bolton, 16
Friend (hip,; Curtis, Ditto,
Betley, Fle'c'ier, North-Carolios, 8
Mary and He!.ei)a, Davis, Ditto, 1-6
Payne, Mifcn, Ditto, 8 i
Harriet, Dickenfon, Norfolk, S ,
r 'ro.Dona, Bodon, R "
,§loop Robc-ftj'BrigiSj New-York, 7 '
Niecv, Oover,: Alexandria, 15
Fos, filaik, 8 (
fltofjfix, T*nnif»j - Richmond, 10'
Kittle Bob, liariy Virginia, 7 1
v Diiver, Dciiike,' Alexandria, 13 J
,/N. York and' Plvila. Packet, Htint, Demarata, t
■ / ,-v' £<ia:Porto Rico, i
N 1 hivflup A drains |f Kennebeck,Capt. Ja,miefon, >
56 days with two other square
t igged w«'e fcdii uaiwjjng in for the Capes, c
Sunday laftj * jf'
ExtraSt from tire log book of the snow Charles, I e
Gapt. Bell, 70 days from Liverpool.
June 9') Jat, 43, 13, lon. 58, spoke the (hip The
rcfa, Hdllidiy, CharJjilon to BeffaH; 8 days'
out, all well. 22d, 45, was boarded by
the Haflar fVigatc aad ftippiied with provifionj— -
the 25th was brought to a second time by faidfri
gate, and on the 27' th fsw her again at a di.lance.
PROVIDENCE MARINE INTELLIGENCE.
Arrived fince,our kfi, brig Friendfliip, H. Ola'ey, /l
54 days from P°
Monday arrived"here Sloop Sally, Anthony, 21
days from St. /ago. Lat. 16, long. 73, spoke the
brig' George, fcf Philadelphia, bound to Jamaica, 5
days out.
Capt. Anthony spoke a British 64~0fF Block-IJand.
Jiapt; A, left at St. Jago, capt. Shore, of N«|wYork
fWU-T wd CKgo condemnedKy the Frertch. j„
Capt, Salem, to fail in a few days. Capt. i ta
Eafton, of to fail for Jamaica. Capt.May- CC j
of was spoke with foutli fid,e of Cu- tor
op I days, bound to Honduras.
YHterday arrived the |brig Sukey, capt. Thornton,
15 days from St. Thomas's. He brings
refpecSling the war. Capt. Pardon Sheldon, of this
port, failed in compahy with the Sukey. Capl. T.
fpbke a Barque 10 weeks from Amsterdam, capt. Lud
well, bound to Georgia. I
BOSTON, June 29. d«
Arrivtd since our last ; (hips Tarter, Grociam, he
London; America, Stinfon, Belfaft ; brigs Mary, „
Stones, Havannah ; Fox, Harley, Guadaloupe ; 1.
schooners John, Smith, Demarar* ; Sculpion, Car- "
ter» Havannah ; Three Brothers, Appleton, E m * P
qiribo ; William, Wafs, Jamaica, Success, Brown „
Aux Cayes. >.
At Belfaft, Ireland, May 20 Ship Huldah, "
Warner, of Wilmington, for Liverpool ; fllipSwan- "
wick, Jawkan, Philadelphia, with palTengers. to - u
fail !•) ten days j Tahr. Four Sifters, Welman, Sa- ~
•lem, to far! in 6-days ; Susannah, Beard, Philadel- e
jib)a, wltn pafTengers, to fail May to.
C?pt» Wyatt, of at Petit Canal
June if.
"X ;• '
'- « £
■ K WfA
« At Drmjrarr,, Mv; 26. Coitiawt, Cai'i-l". • f-
Bo'ton ; c,!p;s. Geye ; Eat theft", and flwr
D.'rby, and Hinnrtlr, Watt, of do. Corfc : ,K.>t . ,
Kslicorn/if Qaltimurc ;capts. Lincoln, and ! •
ton of
S TO C K S.
Sii per Cent. - - .... 1. i»/», A ,
Three per Cent. ...... . /~j
>n- 5? pcrCent j£,6 f ..
fs, per Cent* - - t(/ ( )j
; r . Deter-ed S:x per Cent. .... I'fytoX
, BANK United Stirct, .... aypr.ceht.
j t 1 — • - 30
——— North America, - - - - 48 u> 50
Infararite Comp. North-America, 55
— — -"-Pcnnfj'lvania, 12
Hfir 1 - * - rr« ft'
ir | ~'*sjhet(,n and fork'ss" Humphreys,
te \ \ CO S-\atf_Y_A NC E R .V
---iel : tfAVE removed their M'alr.at-flrT»,
rcd ■ next door bjtt t'Wc to the corner of. *
0 f: Vherc sU IKSTfttIMISSTS IX WlifT.-T, » w drawn «
| .a Moderate charge;,-with earr, and dlfpatcir'.
| They likewifc bny end .felt R'eil Ethics cpor. ctnv.mf.
Q- (ions, and"procure Money >»son Loan or. yood fecuritv -■*!
ch The business of an ATTORNEY AT LAW ar.dNU ' A-'
io- iRY PUBLIC is also tratifafied at jfefaid office c» usual
e ft *t ASSHETON HUMPHRLYS,
N. B. Good Notes discounted.
J"')'.?- . eo£v
Ir . India (. • oods at Auction.
On Friday next, theStß 555.' ?.t ro o'clock in the morn.
W; H I" e fold at Fox's new ft ores, back of the auc
tion room, in Front-tlreet, about up packages of In,
n- dia Goods, p?rt of the cargo of the (hip Ganges, ftQwi
o- Madras aud Calcutta—The principal articles are
n, " CoJTies of different cefcriptir>i,«.
a _ Shirting muCin*, of fnperior quality,
Baftas,
-V Giir.. ii«,
et - Humnums,
;ea Emerties,
f Punjuans, white and browa,
(ij Perf.ans,
..... Baridanco,
Rornal, > Har.dLcrcfiie&,
Is* Pulicat, j
ly Ihe whale Will be fold without any reierre, and the
U |. terms made agreeable to the company attending.
: ft EDWARD fOX, Anaioneer-
Bank United States 4th July, 1796.
td r T~'KE Direflors have declared ?. d.'-idend ofSixtera
t- A Dollars, on each Share, for the lad fix month*,
:( t which will be paid to the Stockholdts, or their Rcpre
,. feSltatives,at any timeaftcr the x^hHnftant.
G. SIMPSON, Caihier.
EDWARD STOW, jun.
qJ TIJ A ' moved his accomptinj house from No. 4, South
f J- Water-street, to ?6, North Front street.
lf §iw ' '
to nFoTMAMIRA;
Th: Schconrr
it FRIENDSHIP,
« Stefhck CunTir* tnsfter,
AN eycc<!inp; yood veflfel, will fjil ii)
the enurfe of ten days. For freight of p; 3%g"e apply to
the rtafter on board, a 1: C'hefnut-ftreet whari, or to
JOS. ANTHONY and Co.
J»lts- <iw
. Lottery
O Tj"O x railing fix thoufind fix hu'ldred and sixty fcvcd
A' ahd fifty cents, by a dedu&ien of fifteen per
1 'cehtfrbm the prices, not two Manse* to a prije, viz.
3 I Prize of 5000 dollars i. dollars 5 vOO
41 ~ 1090 1000
6 ' S°° ' . jco
A 3 aoo iqca
o zv 100 jtoo
r 99 so 4950
0 100 15 5000
8 aocp >o »0,000
S ■ 5 ta(V drawn numbers of 1000 dollars each, 5000
g ~*T~
3.93* 44,450
4018 Blinks.
5 ,
tt 6.u0 Ticket* at Seven Dollars carh, 44,4 ft)
0' Ey of the Dircflors of the Society for eftublifli.
p- Iflg Uftful'Mannfadures, the ft-perintendaiiti of the Pat.
erfon Lottery hive the Managers to o.Tpr the
■» forepoir.g Sjlieme t'o tiic public, and have directed them
'> to refuud the money to th;>fe p-rfp\s who have pureha/ed
1. in the former Lottery, or exchange tUe tickets for tickets
i, in tliis Lotterf;
c rhe lottery has actually commenced d rawing, ai)d will
continue until finifced. A iift of the Blanks and Prizes
'' may be fefin at the office ol Wiilum Blackburn, No. 64-
south Second street, who will give information where tick
>, ets may be procured.
Dated this-17th 'day of June, 1795.
/■ N GUMMING, ")
JACOB R. HARDENBERC,
JONATHAN RHEA, )
' June 18 eo
! ~ N°. ,36.
Diflricl of Pennsylvania, to wit.
BE it remembered } tbatoiL-tb* Jxxlutntb Jay of
tiventlttb year of the independence of f£t of
America, Samuel Httrrifon Smiib, of said bath tfe*
' poftted in 4bif office tbe title of a the right 'whereof be dai.yrs,
at proprietor, in tbe words felloiving : to ivit : -
" Hijiory of tbe JtifurreSiion i* tbe four WeJlern CQuntiet
of Pennfylvania y if tbe year I^fDCCXCIV^, with a re•*
*' cital of the drcumflances fpecjally conne&ed therewith, and
" an JAJforieal revietu of tbe previous ftuation of tbe country,
" fiy William Findlcy, Member of tbe Houfc of JR*fr<f-nta+
" tives of tbe United States
in conformity to tbe aSI of tbe Coagrefs of tbe United Statu > entit*
led " An A& for the encouragement of learning, by fearing tbi
copies of !*>%aps t Charts and Books, to tbs-Authors and Propric*
tors of fucb copies, during tbe tirres tbereiu mentioned."
J J SAMUEL CALDWELL,
CUrk of tU Dip & of Pennsylvania.
~""
No? 138.
Dijlritt of Pennsylvania : to wit.
BE it remecfibered, that on the twcr.ty-fourth d>y of June,
in the twentieth year of the Independence of ttie United
States of America, JohnOrmrod, of the laid Diilri& hath
depoftted in this office the title of a book, the rigtH whereof
he claims as Proprietor, in the werds following; to wit:
" A fbort and candid Enquiry into the proofs of Christ's
1 «' divinity; in which Doctor opinion concernini
i '• Christ is occafiotnllv considered. In a letter to a frienrf.
" By Char les H. Whar tom, D. D. and Memberof the
. Philosophical Societf of Philadelphia.
" Whofoevefdenieth the Son the fame hath not the Fath-.
1 " er. Let th»f thereforeabide in yo-j ye heard
'• from the beginning ; if that which ye have heard from tl'ff
•' beginning f.iall remain in yo\i, ye also (hall continue ;n
' " the son and in the father. St-John, ttlEpift. c.ii. v.? 3,
" 24."
' in'conformity to the aft of the Congrcfi of the United Stt 1 ' *
• intituled "An a£l tor tbe encourigemeni of learning, bv V.
- curing tbe copies of Maps, Charts and Books, to the author s
and proprietors of fach copies, during the limrs tliireia
mentioned." SAMUEL CALDWELL,
i» Cleik of the Diftrjft <ji{ Pennsylvania.
June la^wwiVlaiis of the United States.
, serve
creai
PROPOSALS
\
For carrying the MAILS o( the United Stateson i„t :
the followinij Poll Roads, wi|l be received at the the (
Cieneral Poll Office, until the fifteenth day of Ju
ly next. ur' s ,
t. From Portsmouth New Hampshire by Hampton Falls,
Newbury Port, Ipswich, Beverly, Salera and Lynn to Bos- n
ton, three times a week.
May 1, to November i. Receive the Mail at Portsmouth
every Tuesday, t Thurfdav and Saturday at 5A M, and ar- ~~
rive at Rofton the fame days by 6 PM. Returning. Receive
the Mail st Boftori every Monday, Wednesday and Fridav Nc
a 4 A M K and deliver it at Portsmouth the Came days by 6
P M, Ho
November 1, to May 1. Receive the Mail at Portsmouth
every Wednesday and Saturday at Sunrifc, and arrive at Bof
rf>o on Thursday and Monday by 10 AM. Returning. Re
•vivc the Mail at Boston every Monday and Wednelday at 2
P M, and arrive atPorifmouth on Tuesday and Thursday by
2. From Boflon by Worcester, BrookfieW, Springfield
Suflield, Hartford, Weihersfield, Middletown, Wallingford,
New Haven, Milford, Strarford, Faiifield, Norwalk, Stam- Te
♦ord and Kingfbridge to New York, thfee times a week. crc
May I, to November 1. Receive the Mail at Boifcon every P
Monday, Wednesday and Friday at 11 AM, arrive at Wor- wh
ceftcr the fame evenings, leave Worcester every Tuesday, in
Thursday and Saturday at 3 AM, arrive at Brookfitld by 10 tur
AM, ai Springfield by sP M, and at Hartford by 9 PM. Ms
Leave Hartford on Wednesday, Friday and Monday at 3A M, hiti
arrive at New Haven by noon, at S j mford in the evening, ant
and at New York on Thursday, Saturday and Tuesday by
noon. Returning. Leave New York every
Monday, Wednesday and Friday at 11 AM, deliver it at P r '
New Haven on* Tuddav, Thursday and by noon, tic
and at Hartiord by 9P M ; leaveHartlord every Wednesday, ce<
Friday aud Monday at 3 A M, arrive at Springfield by 10 ew
AM, and at Worceftcr in the evenings leave Worcester eve- r ec
ry Thursday, Tuesday by 3 AM, and arrive at
Boston by 1 P M. ,n
November 1, to May t« Receive the Mail at Fofton every
Monday, Wednesday and Friday at 2P M, arrive at Biook- a "
field the next days by 4P M, at Springfield in the evening, and
at Hartford on Wednesday, Friday and Monday by noon; ar- Fr
rive at NeW Haven the nxt 3ay6 by 8 A M, and arrive at Gi
New York, every Friday, Monday and Wednesday by 11 AM»
Returning. Leave New York every Monday, Wednesday and cni
Friday at 2 P M, arrive at New Haven the next days in the 1
evening, leave New Haven every Wednesday, Friday an<| tat
M onaayby 3 AM, arrive at Hartford by 2 PM, atSprirgJ
field by 9 P M, at Brookfield on Thursday, Saturday and
Tuesday by 10 A M, and at Bolton on Friday, Monday anJ
Wednesday by 11 A M.
3. From Alexandria by Colchester, Dumfries, Falmouthl
Frederickfburg, Bowling Green, Hanover court house, RichJ
uiond and Olbornc's, to Petersburg, three times a week.
April 1, to November 1. Receive the Mail at Alexandria®]
every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday, at 4 AM, arrive all
Fredericktburg by 7 PM, leave Fredericklburg every Wedneflj
day, Friday and Monday at 4 A M, arrive at Richmond bf!
7 PM, leave Riebmond every Thursday, Saturday and TuefV
day by 4 A M, and arrive at Petersburg by 10 A M.
ing. Leave Petersburg every Thursday, Saturday and Tues
day by 1 P M, arrive at Richmond by 6 PM, leave Richmond
the fame days by 4A M, and airive at Frederickfburg by I M
P M, leave Frederickfburg every Wednesday, Friday and
Monday at 4 A M, and arrive at Alexandria by"6 P M. nc
November », to April 1, Leave Alexandria every Tues
day, Thursday and Saturday at 10 AM, arrive at Fredericks- M
burg every Wednesday, Friday and Monday by noon, leave
Frederickfburg in one hour, arrive at Richmond Thursday,
Saturday and Tuesday by 6 P M, leave Richmond Friday,
Monday and\Vednefdayby 5A M, and arrive at Petersburg .
by 10 A M. Returniug. Leave Petersburg every Tuetday, °
Thursday and Saturday at 1 PM, arrive at Richmond by 6 0l
t M, leave Richmond every Wednesday, Friday and Monday
atsA M, arrive at Frederickfburg on Thuifday, Saturday
and 1 uefiay by iIAM, and arrive at Alexandria on Friday,
Monday and Wednesday by 1 P M.
4. From Richmond by New Kent court house, Williams-
burg, Yorktown and Hampton to Norfolk, three limes a weth.
April 1, to November 1. Laave Richmond every Tuef-
day, Thursday and Saturday at 3 AM, arrive at Hampton by
q PM. leave Hampton on Wednesday, Friday and Monday
ly 5A M, and arrive at Noilolk by II A M. Returning, .
Leave Norfolk every Thursday, Saturday and Tuesday at 1 ' m
tM, arrive at Hampton by 6 PM, leave Hampton every .
Friday, Monday and Wednesday at 3 A M, and arrive at
Richmond by 7 P M.
November 1, to April 1. Leave Richmond every Mon
day, Wednesday and Friday A M, arriv« at Williams
burg by 6P M, leave Williamfburg every Tuesday, Thuif- C
day and Saturday by 5A M, arrive at Hampton by 11 AM,
and at Noilolk by 6 PM. Returning. Leave Norfolk every
Thursday, Saturday and Tuesday by 11AM, arrive at Hamp
ton by 5 P M, leare Hampton every Friday Monday and Wed
nesday by £ A M, arrive at Williamfburg by 6 P M, leave
Williamfburg Saturday* Tuesday and Thursday by 5 A M,
and arrive at Richmond by PM.
5, From Petersburg by Cabbin Point, Smithfield and Suf
folk to Portsmouth, three ttmesawth.
April i. to November 1. Receive the Mail at Petersburg
every Monday, Wednesday and Friday by 11 A M, atrive at
Suffolk Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday by noon, and at 1
Portsmouth by 7P M. Returning. Leave Portsmouth every
Thursday and Saturday by 10 PM, arriveat Suffolk ,
cverv Monday, Wednesday and Friday by 10 A M, and at
Petersburg every Tuesday Thursday and Saturday by noon.
November!, to - prill. Leave Petersburg every Friday,
Monday and Wednesday by ti AM, arrive at Suffolk un Sa
turday, Tuelday and Thursday by noon, and at Poufmouth
by 5 P M. Returning. Leave Portsmouth every Saturday
an< l Thursday at Sur.fet, arriveat Suffolk on Monday-
Wed nel day and Friday-by to AM, and at Pcteilbu.-j on
Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday by noon.
6. From Peteifburg by Harm's, Goldfon's, Warrenton,
Lewifburg, Raleigh, Avcryfborough, Fayeucville, Lumber
ton, Cheraw couu house, Camden, Columbia and Edgefield
court house to Augulla, tu/ice a uietk,
Lc«ue Fcicrftnirg every Tuesday and Friday by noon, ar
rive at HarrVC«by J f M, « Goldfon's on Wednesday and
Saturday by 8 A M. at Warrenton by 2 P M, at Lewifburg
and Sunday by 8 A M, at Raleigh by 3 P M, at
Fayette,!!'.* overy Friday aud Monday by 1 P M, at Lumber
ton by 9 PM, leave LumberUin every Saturday a.id Tuefdiy
by 4 A M, arrive at Cheraw court house by 4 P M, arrive at
Camden on Su ay and Wednrfday by 2PM, at Columbia
on Monday and Thursday 4 AM. arrive at Edgefield court
house oTTTttefdayarid Friday at t> \A M, and at Augu&a by
noon. Returning. Lcaye Augusta every Tuesday and Friday
by 8 P M, arrive at Edgefield coilrt house on Wednesday and
Saturday by 10 A M, at Columbia On Thursday and Sunday
by 10 A M, at Camden by 7 P M. leave Camden every Fri
day and Monday by 4 A M, arrive at Chcraw court house by'
4 PM, at Lumbeiton every Saturday and Tuesday by r 2 PM,
leave Lumbtrtonin one hour, arriveat lavettrvillr nn SnnHjv
and Wednesday by 7 AM, ar Raleigh on Monday and T'Wrfr
ilay by 6 A M, at Lewitburg by 2 P M, at Warrenton on
Tuesday and Friday by 5 A M, at Goldfon's by a P M, at
Harris's by 7 P M, and at Peterlbufg oil Wednesday and Sa
turday by 11 A M.
7. From Camden by Statelburg to Charleston ttfiee a u)eeh.
Leave Camden every Sunday and Wednesday at half past, 2
iM, arrive at Chartcflon the next I uefday and Friday by
noon. Rttsrnuig. Leave Gnarlrtton every Tuesday and Fii
day by 9 P M, and arrive at Camden the next Thursday and
Sunday by 7 P M. 5 ,
2. From Augusta by Waynrfbarough to Savannah, owe a
week.
Leave Aug'jfla every Saturday at j P-M, and arrive at Sa
vannah the next Sunday by 6P M. Returning. LcaveSavan
nah every Tnefdav at to A M, and aruve at August a the next
TbuWday b* 6 P M. ,
9. Fro-n Abi 'gdon by Hawkins court house to Danville.
cr.e a -juek ■ ' ,
Leave Abingdon every Sunday at 5 A M, and arrive at Dan
viile the next Sai'irday by noo.i. Returning. Leave Danvjlle
every Suuday at 6 M, arKs arrive at Alnnjfdon the next Sa
tvrdavfl<»n. Prop J*lt /ortits route ui/Lbt nedved stfilthe 1.1
day of Augtji 'ext. >
W'r. j. If either of the rnfei M». (5, t, or 8 ore * ten 'V
la v during the cc tinuivce of lb* ContrgSor irto eh
fetve such a/te aliens in earning the Mail, und hi< b<"> '< *
»r dinuniflud in proportion to the difiance encreafed or dinun
tifl.ed by fuck alteration. _ '
\"nte 5 Forco-iy quarter of an hour's dtlrifuntiwdao e acc'- Ab
rfnrfj excepted) in arriving after the times preferred in am antral, <
the Contrador Jhall Jorfeit ore dollar, nnd if the delay continue until \ n
Mr departure of mi\ Mending Mail, whereby the Mails defl'ned fir jj lt
such depending Mail, loje a trip, the Contractor shall forfeit t:ndol■
\ lars. to be deduced fiom his pal. awtjuly 15.
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Pofl Majler General
Senixal Post Ojficj,
Philadelphia, June it, 17^6.
Now Publi/h'tvg by the Printer, a
No. 149, Cliefnut-Street, and No. 3, Lastitia Court, rl
delivering to Subfcrihers, and to be had at the different
Hook-Stores in this City, a '
The Firjl Number of
Berriman & Co's i.
CHE A P AND ELEGANT EDITION OF
The HOLY BIBLE.
Containing the Old and Naw
Testaments and the Apocrypha, with marginal notes and re
erences. An Index ; or an account of the most remarkable
paffaoes in the old and new Testament, pointing to the places
wharein they happened, and to the places ef fcrtptuie where
in they are recorded. —A Table of Time.—Tables o. scrip
ture meafurea, Weights and coins : with an appendix,contain
ing the method of calculating its measures of iubfacb, 11.
hitherto uiantingin Treitifes on this fubjeS. A Table of Ofrees
and Conditions of men. 11l
CONDITIONS.
1. Thefizeof this Edition will be a LARGE FOLIO,
printed en a beautiful new type, and good paper, made par
ticularly for it, It will be published in Numbers, notto ex
ceed 30, one of which will be delivered weekly to fubferib
efs, at a quarter of a dollar. Those fubferibers who prefer
receiving the work complete, will be attended to by fignifying
the fame on any of the fubfeription papers in rhe Bookstores
ir. this city.
2. There will be an advance in the price, on fubfcnbing
after the firft of August next.
3. In the courfeof the Work will be given an elegant I\
Frontifpiece—from an Engraving of the celebrated artist,
Gricnion.
Berrimah & Co. gratefnlly acknowledge the Very liberal
encouragement they have met with; and haverealonto believe
that the execution of their edition will afliwer every expec- y
| tation, arid fpii.i its own pmife.
I May a 6 3aweow. •<
PROPOSALS
FOR CARRYING THE In
Mails of the United States, dl
On the following routes, will be received by the Poftmafler
at Savannah, until the firttjday of September next.
1. From Savannah by Sunbuty to Newport Bridge, once a
week.
1 Receive the Mail at Savannah every Saturday by 9A M, ar-
I rive atSunburfy by 6 P M, and at Newport Bridge on Sun
day by 10 AM. Returning. Leave Newport Bridge on Sun
jLlay by 3 P ?|l, and arrive at Sunbury in the evening, and at
on-.Monday by 6 P M.
a. From Newport Bridge by Damn and Brunfwick to St. c<
Mary'*, once in two weeks. a]
Receive the Mail at Newport Bridge every other Sunday a]
noon, and arrive at St. Mary's the next Wednesday by 5P M. j 2
Returning. Leave St. Mary's the next day, Thursday by 8 A
M, and arrive at Newport Bridge the next Sunday by 10 A M.
Note 1. If either of the routes are altered by law , during the con- R
' tinuance 0/ the Contracts> thi Contra flor is to ocferve such alterations
[ in tarrying the mail, and his pa-) is to be encreafed or dimihifhed, in
' proportion to the diflance encreafed or diminished by such alteration. 0
' Note 2. The are to be in operation on the frft day of v
' Odober next, and to continue .for jour years until the 30 th Septeni- a:
r ber, 1800, inclufize. C
' Note 3. ThePoJl Mafier General may alter the times oj arrival b
' and departure at any tine during the continuance of {he ContrtSs, he ii
previoujly ftipuLUing an adequate co/npenjation for any extra expense is
that may be occajtoned thereby. p
Note 4. Fifteen minutes Jhall be allowed for opening and closing r
the mail at all offices where no particular time is jpecified. £
* Note 5. For every hour*s delay (unavoidable accidents excepted) a
f in arriving after the times prescribed in any contratt, the contrador \
* Jhall forfeit one dollar And if the delay continue unit I tke depart- j.
ure of any depending mail, whereby the mails deftincd for such de- j
pending mail shall lofeatrip, the centraQor shall forfeit ten dollors
—4o be deduced from his pay.
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Post-Master General. ,
General Post Office, t
, Philadelphia* June 28, 1796. iaw6w
I For Sale,
I- A Few Calks of First Quality
; INDIGO.
Enquire *t No. 71, South Water street.
May 1 tht ftf
r « Teneriffe Wine.
at ' I 'ENERIFFE WINE, in pipes, hogsheads, and
ry X quarter calk?, and 170 (Filtering Stones, just ar
lk rived per the schooner P»lly & Sally from Teneriffe,and
" for Sale by
, y , John Craig,
a " No. 11 Dock Itreet.
ltl ' WHO HAS A|.SO FOR SALE.
Best Soft-lhell'd ALMONDS,
RAISINS in Frails.
SHERRY WINE, ia Quarter Calks,
in Irifli CANVAS,
:r . Bristol and Irifli WINDOW GLASS.
:ld May 30 e0
ar- SHOT r
nd pvF ll.fne?, ftom 31 lb to Grape,
II r g W Cambooles, Pots, and other callings executed'; at the
at {horteft notice,
~ r ~ Nail rods, from iod to spike,
f'y Hoop Iron, of all sizes, for caflcs or cutting into nails, from
ibta 1 rac^tol2<^nal ''' s
' Anchors, from I j Cart, to xoolb.
by BatlrU1 '
day A Q^ a »t'ty of James River Tobacco,
Carolina Pork.
I( j a y Herrings in barrels,
f,(. Kiln-dried corn meal in Hhds. and Bbls.
;by Rye flour See. to be fold by
' Levi Hollingjworth Iff Son.
riilt'-' ' _AU\Jfs?\
?,7 t JOHN PAUL JONES.
ia- TNfORMATION is hereby given, that the late John
I. laul Jones was a proprietor of five lhares (amount
'leek. ing to about 5867 lcres) in a trad of land purchased by
aft, 2 the Ohio Company, in the territory of the United States
' by 0 f America, north-weft of tHe river Ohio ; and that his
F »- heirs or legal representative, on application to the direc
',n<l tors as said company, at Marietta in the territory afore
faid, will receive a deed of the said five shares, or rights
" of land.
t Sa- The a Pr l!cat ' on ma 7he made personally or by an agent,
van- t)Ut P r °P cr documents must be produced to prove the
next chimam P r claimants the legal heirs or representative of
the said Jones
i lie. Asit is not known in what country the person
or persons interested reside.it will be an aS of benevolence
Dan every Printer in America and Europe, who shall insert
fjlle thisadvertifement in his paper.
: S>. In behalf of the direiftors of the Ohio Company
: , RUFUS PUTNAM.
ManetU.May j0,X796. [Jun«4.] 3 awyw
for s ALE,
A few hundred weight of Salt Petre ill bags
Bed Sherry Wine I H in quarter talks
Chumpaigne in cases of JO bottles \
A quantity of Wrote Lead, Bar Lead, and Shot .» «to 1
About 80 boxes tin plates, A few boxes of best CafUle t „
Soap entitled to drawoack a
An invoice of Walking Canes and Perfumery to
Ditto Bandanna handkerchiefs, and
Some Elegant Italian StatHary.
Samuel Brcck, jitn.
Rofs's Wharf.
June 18. i?L
---" PROPOSAL, S
TOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTIOK,
A Plan of the City of Washington,
By THOMAS FREEMAN,
Surveyor of the territory oi Columbia and City of Wash
ington.
conditions.
U This Plan lhall be an elegant and correA Copperplate
impreflion, of about four feet square, whereon will be
accurately delineated the natural state of the ground
contained within the lines of the city—plains, vallies, q;
riCng grounds, springs, runs, creeks, &e. with the lines th
of the grand avenues, llreets, squares, public appropri
ations for walks, gardens, as now corre&ly laid out and d<
permanently ellablilhed—the river Potomak, and East- n(
ern Branch, opposite Jthe city—the channels, coasts,
harbours and foundings of the fame, as taken by order <J r
of the Board of Commissioners. th
11. On the fides of the Plan lhall be represented a beauti
ful elevation of the Prelident's House and the Capitol.
111. To render the drawing still more intelligible and ule
ful, it lhall be accompanied by a Pamphlet, containing
all tha laws of the general and particular governments,
refpeding the location and establishment of the city
the orders and regulat ions of the Board of Commission
ers, approved byThp Preftdent of the United States, re
fpeding the purchase and improvement of lots therein—
a particular description of the city and adjacent country ~
—of tht river Potomak, with the product 1011s, state of 'J
cultivation, commerce, population, (3"c. of the country
through which that vast river flows. (
IV. This work wdl bo publilhed under the fandion of the V
Commissioners of the City, and lhall meet with their V
full approbation before it appears in public ; and Mr.
Freeman pledges Jiimfelf to'make it as accurate ufeful
and entertaining as possible.
V. The price to fubferibers j Dollars, to be paid on recep- -
tion of the Plan and Pamphlet.
'Surveyor's Office, City of Walhington, JuneS, 1796.
Subscriptions will be taken at the Surveyor's office,
iivthe city; Mr. Rice's Bookstores in Baltimore and Phila- "I
delphia; and at the principal Bookstores on the Continent. J
Jun* 17 ai
—— — a]
For Sale, c:
A LARGE ELEGANT AMD WELI TINISHED Y
Three-story Brick House, ™
(The late residence of General Walter Stewart)
WITH a LOT of GROUND thereunto belonging, on
the weft fide of Third-street, near Union-street
containing in front 3z feet, and in depth 100 feet, to an j,
alley leading into Union-street. The house is 31 feet front e
and 50 feet deep ; the several rooms contained in it are Q
large, commodious, andcompletely finifhed; thetwofirft
stories are each 13 feet high; there are io mahogany
doors in the house ; a geometrical staircase, with mahoga
ny rails and a good Iky-light. The kitchen i» in the cell
ar, which is spacious and convenient, and finHhed with ait
oven, stew-holes and pantries, a servants' hall and large <
r wine-cellar adjoining the kitchen, in front of which is an L
area in which there is a pump. The yard is vaulted.
Communicating with the said building is a neat three-story
( brick house', on the north fide of Union-street, centain
> ing 30 feet front by 10 feet deep; the lower part of which
: is at present occupied as a compting-houfo, and the upper
part divided into well-finilhed large chambers. This house
may at a small expense be converted into a convenient
dwelling : The street door is very handsome, and the front
) and back have Venetian window-lhutters. Adjoining the
last house, upon the lot belonging to the firft, are ereded
bathing-rooms, &c. There are likewise very good coach
house and stables finilhed equal (or nearly so) with any in
' the city, on a lot containing on Union street 30 feet, and
in depth 011 the waft'fide of said alley 52 feet. There are
good cellars under the whole ef the buildings, and a wine
room over part of the {table, with a hay-loft over the re
mainder. For further particulars enquire of
EDWARD BONSALL & Co.
At their Office No. 64 Dock-llreet. between Vfalnut & Pear
«° street),
61b month 24th, 1796.
War-Office of the United States,
May 4th, 1796.
- HPHE following Rules, explanatory of those publilhed
1. the 15th February, 1789, are to be observed by all
persons entitled to Lands, in purfuaace of resolve. of
" Congress.
Every certificate of the acknowledgment of a deed or
d power of attorney, either before a notary public or other
raagiftrate, mull, in addition to what is usual, set forth
that the person making the acknowledgment is known to
the notary or other magistrate ; for which purpose words
of the following import mull be inserted in the certificate.
« And I do moreover certify that the faio A B making
this acknowledgment has been for personally
known to me."
If the notary or other magistrate has reason to believe
that he is the person he rsprefents himfelf to be, he wil
also certify it.
Andifthe proof be made by a witnefsor witneffes.h- or
they mull swear tofome general state of their knowledge of
him, which matter must be set forth in the certificate • and
the notit'y public, or other magistrate, before whsm t S
lie acknowledgment is made, must also set forth that the wic
nel. or witneffeshas or have been for upwards of
pcrlonally known to him.
m If a jufticc of the peacc is employed, the clerk of the
court of the corporation or county must certify that such
person «juft.ee of the peace of the county or corpora
tion as the cafe may be, and that full faith i, due to hi.
ads as such, JAMES M'HENRY,
Secretary of War.
May 11.
1 lazuzrH
By an ArtHl resident at Mr. Oellers's Hotel,
MINIATURE LIKENESSES
~ AR E "ken and executed in that elegant and delicate
A X. itilc, which is so necessary to render a Miniature Pic
ture an intereftiitg jewel.
~ He wiD warrant a strong and indisputable rcfem
, " b l a "slf n!l takcs the liberty to l»y before the public
f y of thl * place hi. moll earned intention to deserve their Da
tes tronage by his best endeavors to pleaie.
his N. B. Specimens are to be seen.
Ec- May 11. .
re- ■■ 3
ht! To be Sold,
:nt, At No- North Sectnd-Street, and by k-vtral of
the the Apothecaries h this City.
of right to «mo*e pains artd infljmm,
PERKINS T h "man bedyas feeurcd ,„ Dr ELISHA
son t. K NS ' by patent, wuh in r umentsand directions nr
nee This
Icrt £ d ' y ul ! a P aln ' ' the !*»<!, face, teethfbr^fl
»' b ' ck - rh eumatifiJ, recent gout, &c. & c
Notwithstanding the utijit«f this pradice it is not r,-
fumed but there are cases it which this ev WV
remedy may fomctuneifaij, '
" J un « "8,
■ lawif,
Washington Canal Lottery,
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorised \J
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fit thousand, 'J
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting ; 4
a Canal through the City of Washington, from the t'o
tomac to the Eastern Branch Haruour. > j
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.'
Viz -I Prize of io.ooo dollars, ao.ooo
I ditto 10,000 io'ooo • i
7 last drawn 7
Tickets, each 1 3J|OOO
6 ditto X,ooo ft ,
10 ditto 400 s
so ditto 100
55 ditto 50 r 0
5750 ditto II fo.ooS
To be raised for the C '
5850 Prizes, : '~0.13
11650 Blanks, not two to a] ze.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dolla; t.ooo
Spf The Commiflioners have ta ruj re
quired by the aforefaid ad for the «.• i;'.ym.tr.t of
the prizes.
The drawing of this Lottery wi , w ; ; : jut
delay, as soon as the Tickets are ,o' ich timsly
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix it. ::! after :
drawing is finifhed, (hall be confide , ,
the benefit of the Canal, and appn ed ««»t
---(Signe NOTLf G,
DANTE iliß /;
LEWIS I) . >1,013 -
—. GEORC E WALKER;
\V»i. 1
* THOM. LA ,
JAMES iVAKR
Cjty of Walhington, Feb. n.
The First Floor ; id G
OF a tKree-ftory Brick House t be LET
Dock-street, between Second
Very fuitablc for an Office or Who Sro>
r ;,
—jettToS"
For Sale,
A Valuable Grift and Sav
IN New Jersey, near the Forks 0' .it ie
The Grift Millis sixty by fort) fati-tve-i
and calculated for four run of St<
and boulting-cloths, &c. TheSai fill!
capable ofcuttingfiveto 6 100 thoi : i ct
year. A valuable piece ef Cedar a; v
and a half of the Mill, and within h ju • •
of a Landing The Lumber, &c. lay !_■•: tak
from the mill tail.
ALSO TOR SA
Several Valuable Tr? *s
InPennfylvania, for all of which] y. :;i
edin the notes of Messrs. Morris
Ca(h.
For further information apply t •'
May 17. ' v
-
City cf Wa(h
SCHEME oft he LOT" *Y, \\ •
FOR THE IMPROTEfo • THE
FEDERAL
A magnificent ) 10,000 dolla ,
dwelling-house, )xa(h 30,000, are J
I ditto 15,000 & cafli 15,000 40^000
I ditto 15,000 & eafh 15,000 30,000
I ditto 10,000 & calh 10,000 10,000 • |
: I ditto 5,000 & calh 5,000 lo,oco
1 1 ditto 5,000 & cafb 5,000 10,000
x call} prize of 10,00 a ,
1 a dp. 5,000 each, are, » 10,000
1 10 de. 1,000 - - 10,000
e ao do. 500 - - x 0,000
e 00 do. 100 - - 10,000 A Sij
aoo da. 50 10,000
400 do. 15 - 10,000
1,000 do. ao * - 30,000
15,000 do. 10 - rjo,ooo
16,739 Prizes.
33,161 Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 40,8000
1 N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity ps
I Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the last drawn
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one :
r And approved notes, securing payment in either money
£ or prizes, in ten days atter drawing, will be received for
" any number not less than 30 tickets.
® This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of thepri
vate buildings to be ereded in the City of Walhington—
•• Two beautiful designs are already feleifted for the entire
% fronts on two of the public fqnares; from these prawings
■ it is proposed to ercdl two centre and four comer buildings,
as soon as pofiible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
' them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, ia
II the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery.
A nett deduction of fiv« per cent, will be made to defray
r the necessary expenses of printing, &c. and the furplm
>' will be made a part of the fund intended for the Ijatisaal
a University, to bi ereded within the city of
a The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets art
off.-—The money prizes will be payable in thirty days
after it is finifhed ; and any prizes for which fortunate
numbers are not produced within twelve months after the
drawing iti closed, are to be considered as given towards
the fun J for the University ; it being determined to fettle
■ the whole business in a year from the ending of the draWt
1B ing, and to take up the bonds given as security.*
The real securities given for the payment of the Prizes,
are held by the President and two Diredors of the Bank
_ of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
mount of the lottery.
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of
s the late Commiflioners aflifled in the management of the
te ? Lotter y »re requested to undertake this arduous talk
c - j* lecond tlme on trel*alf of the public ; a fufficient num
ber Of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
n . fiends to a National University and the other federal ob-
U c J'etsmay continue to favor the defigri.
a- „ By . accounts received from the different parts of the
Continent as well as from Europe, where the tiekets
have been sent for file, the public are assured that the
drawing will fpeedLy commenie, and that the care and
_ caution unavoidably necessary to insure a fafe disposal of
the tickets, has rendired the inorr fufpeufion indispensable.
, . , SAMUEL BLODGET.
° f J'r!" maybe hld at the Bs "k of Columbia ;of
of Tn'l « , Co - ® altlm °re ;of Peter Oilman, Bollon {
A Coier"s?erry; DS ' R ' Chmond 5 ° f Richald W * lls *
e
u- --
a, —
ei PRINTED BY JOHN FENNQ,
cr —No. ng —
CHESNUT-STSEtt,
, [Pfise Eight Dollars per Annsm.]