€&?ette of A' Minted States, & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Numsex 1476.]
For Sale or Charter, To
( . XHS (HIP At tht
pSmr WARREN,
Benjamin Church, MaJUr. falc,
OF about 280 tons burthen. En- |
jefe tf Robert Wain- ™ton
Hay 26 S ably ft
For Freight or Charter, m 'f M -
To any pan Europe, PJj'™
The S-wcdifh Skip 0 f
Alexander Magnus v *»y
Capt. Carl O. Ehsman, •
A BOUT 350 torn burthen. In thiv port > and
£a. also the Danilh Ship FREDERICK [ULIU9
KAUS, of 450 tona, now lying in Hampton Roads, t
Apply to JOHN VAUQHAN. *- (
For
John Tarris, matter. olic A
A GREAT part of her caigo i» engagel, and aacl j;
(he will fail in ten day*. ■ fnr °* P al ," Office
faee apply to capt. Tarris, at Wiljjiij* * daily
XCor t. Gffßirtr & smith. by t y h ;
May 25 *
' powe
j3i t For London, Jjg
THMHW-- all Wl
■smM WILLIAM PENN, nerx
James 'JoitAH, Maf.er.
WILL fail with all convenient speed. For
freight or passage apply to * r
"Jeje & Robert Wain.
ty The owners of Goods in the (hip William
Venu, are resetted to fend their permits on board
11 soon as podibU. .
May 19
• " 1 And
For Sale,
7be cargo of the brig Enterprise, Captain
Langdan from Bourdeaux, now landing at
Morton's wharf,
CCXSITING OF 4"
<24 hMs. of Claret 2 1} ~~
»i; cases of ditto "g « Phi
100 cases of Sweet Oil
tie pipes London proof 7 brandy. | 2
10 pipet of Holland proof )
APP 'tVharton & Lewis,
No. t'S> South Front St " io o
Said Brig r
WILL take a FREIGHT for N
the Weft-Indies or Europe, fails _
faft, burthen about fifteen hun-
J&SsfeafiSSdred barrels, is in complete or
der, and will be ready to receive a cargo in a *roi
few days q
Apply as above.
May 14
L o st —A Gold Bracelet,
Marked S. H. with a double Chain. Any
pcrftm who may h.ve found ir, and will return
it at No. 47, Penn-ftreet, w»U be handsomely
rewarded. , ,
May 17; dtf
The Subscriber,
Determined to retire from bnfinefs, invites all
who have anv no:e, bill, bond or acceptance
of bis, now due, to call for payment ; and those
wbo wilh to anticipate may receive the money
at a reasonable difcoyut. I
JAMES SWAN.,
May m. , L „ (, * w -
Dorcheftcr, near Boston, 16th May 1797.
BfennfylvaniaPopulation Company.
ITOTICE is hereby given to the Share Hold- 1
JN crs, that a further affeflment of nine Dot- I
MR s is levied on each (hare, payable as follows, j 1—
Six Dollars immediately, and I
Three Dollars on the tit of July neat- ] I
Vhich they are requested to pay to the Trea'u- ,
jr of the Company, at the Compaßy s Office, 0<
Jlo. 53, North Fourth-flreet, agreeably to the
lines above mentioned j and they are further I
kformed, that on their neglefting to pay the I
kine as above direAed, the fev<ral forfeitures I
till beexafled. I
By erder of, the Board,
SOL. MAKACHE, Treasurer. I
May 47- djot 1
To Let, U
AndpoJftJft»'> given <" lwe touit,
A good 3 story Brick Houle, j
With back, buildings—No. 43, Sprucc'ftrfet. 1
Apply at No. 109 Spruce-street. J
May s6 S 1
JOHN CRAIG
HAS just imported from Rotterdam, via St. I
'f ho mas, and for file on reasonable terms 1
by tbepackage, j
piatillas Royal v I
Haerlem and German linens j „
louena « I
Past and Pro Patria Paptr
Wafers
iQuills . _ '
I Oziers for Hoops, in Bundles
I Coffee Bags
He has afo for Site,
Best Red Clover Seed
OUI Madeiri Wine, fit for immediate use j
TenerilTe Wine of firft and second Quality
Coffee in Bi?« and Hoglheads
Jamaica Spirits
Connecticut Turpentine Soap
Window Glaft
• Two Trunks of best Patent, Silk and Cotton I
Hosiery I
April 18. 4 1W
For Sale or Charter, I
The Schooner
Fair American,
Virginia built—fcnrthm about 70c Varrchfloor— J
t«to years old—and c>n be lent tofca irrttediate y.
Ibomas & Joshua Fijher,
No. J, Dotk-prcet.
PHILADELPHIA: THURSDAY EVEN
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
At the Merchants' Coffee hcofe, in Philadelphia,
on the 15th* day of June, 8 o'clock in the £ot
evening, i( not before difpoOd of fX. private 1
falc, 4
40,931 1-2 acres of land, on the j
waters of Wheeling a>id l ; iflung creeks, in Wash- < -
ineton county, Pennsylvania. The l'oii is remark
ably fertile ; andhefidca » t>ody of meaiow, s J
there are coufiderable improvements on the pre
mifes. Tliefe laiwU were patented in 1787. On
payment of part of the purchase money, a r-afon
abls credit will be given for the reftdne. Enquire
of the printer. • dhr"l
May 15. §tS 4 W( .
' Le
The Commissioners
FOR carrying into effed the TWENTY-FIRST day a
Article of the Treaty of Friendship, Limits, tnrds
r«nd Navigation, betweon His Catholic Majesty 1,
and the United States of America, hereby give in- Tanj
ftrmitinn to allPerfons therein concerned,—That, to n,
in order to terminate all differences, on accqunt of l" ra j
the losses sustained by the Citizeqs of the United I, (
States, ia confequciw;e of their Veffelsand Car- ai
goes lvaving been taken by the Subjefts of HisCath- A
olic Majesty, during the late War between Spain t urii
and France, that thoy are ready to receive (at their next
Officp, betwccil the hours oi ten and one o'ejotk, j.
daily) all complaints and applications, authorized Wi.l
by the faiil Articld, during Eiguhen Months, g a th
Irom the Jay of the date hereof, aud that Uiey have to ¥
power to examine all such persons as some before L
them, on oath or affirmation, touching'the com- lrr i,
pljints in question, and also to receive in evidence, Jurat
all written teftimorry, auther.ticated in such m»n- A M
ner as they (hall thiiak proper to require or admit. j 0 t
By Ordtr of the CommtJJioners, 4
PETER X.OHRA, Yor
Secretary.
C mmi/Jioners Office, AO. 109, Mulberry
reel, Philadelphia, May litb, 1797- •
10_^ 4 W > d f'
——: the
Just received, Mo '
And tor sale by Isaac HaTvey, jun. No. 5, South p Ol .
Waur-Urett, turn
A parcel of prime Rice ; also, fr j (
Tnriidad and Cayenne Cotton Stfc
Cottce in Barrel's and Bags
Spanilh Hides and Beef. ~
4 thmo.s, s , ,797- ? on
—— ' " one
Philadelphia and Lancaster Turn-
pike Company. | 7 'p
_. . - I eve
A meeting of the Stockholders of the rnila- 1 j an
delphia and Lancaster Turnpike Company, will <
be held at the Company's Offiee, on Monday, wC
io o'clock, the iathjune next. Mo
WILLIAM GOVET.T* Sec'rv. Po
May U. fr
I irr
' 1 — ~ I irttr
NOW LANDING, Lri
" From on bojrd of the fliip GEORGE BAR
CLAY, Capt. Charuks M'AleSter, from £>
Calcutta, the followin£ GOODS, viz..
Coffas Punjum Ctoths I
Hummums Gurrahs _ I
Guzeenahs India Calicoes I
„ Emertits Cot.on Checks
Mamoodits Mulmuls
Sahans Red and Blue Beruagou
f hkfs . d y
Tickeries Patna do. j
Jollas Santipo* do. I y
Carridarries > Plain, striped and flower- I *'
ed fine muslins j
11 Maragungos Ginghams
c Baftat, various forts Taffeties |
re Sattm Romals Bandanno red Uks. I "
y ALSO, ir
I 300 Calks Sugar I
40 Boxes do.
165 B-g s l l°* Ivi
I 70,000 lb. weight heavy black Pepper J M
40,0c0 lb. weight Ginger I
—" J ao Tons Hemp in Bales t '
, I o Pipes East-India Spirits I
I For sale by PHILIPS, CRAMQND V Co.
, I May 4 • jf u
S( 8
For Sate,
I /°vN board the (hip MoLir, John Frost, matter I (
I U from Liverpool, laying at Walnut-ftrect vvhart
I', 6000 bushels of fine ftoved Salt,
Ke ! And OUEEN'S WARE, well alforiedj Ir
er By PHILIP NICKLIN y Co.
I WHO HAVE IN STORE, ALSO FOR SALE, I J
41 J 100 Boxes WhiteHavanna Sugars
I Imperial and ?-r e A s
I Hyifon ) I !
I 17 tubs Quick silver II
1 ehefts Bandanno Handkerchiefs 1,
~ 1 A few chests Manchester Goods well afiorted
lin corduroys, thicksets, ginghams, muflincts, I
I dimities, &c. » Trunks black sewing silk, j
,go Crates queens ware, well afiorted,
io Tons Iheet lead, . I
Nails afiorted, flat and fhsrp points,
London particular and 1 Madeira Wine m
t India market 5 Pjf" f. nd hhlU ' 1 |
I 30 pipes, 10 hhds. TenerifTe VVioe,
io pipes choice Port ditto,
. I ii calks yellow paint, I
J 7 boxes 12 bundles writing flitea,
rms J I box ink-Hands & note preffea,
i Sail canvas assorted No. 1i 8. I
May 4- ' '" f
Rofs & Simfon,
Have for Sale,
A qoahtity o» prime
St. Domingo Cotton,
Superior Old Lisbon Wiae in Pipes ~ J
j Excellent India Market
Teneriffe Wine,
I In Mideira Calks
' I A few Quarter CUefts best
1 Fresh Hyson and ) TEA 3
Hyson Skin 5 ' ,
Muscovado Sugars in Hoglheads, and
»■»
_ J View of the W*r»
er, fUST PUBLISHED,
BV ROBERT CAMPBELL k Co.
I 1 No 40 South Second street,
j [Price 31 Cents]
A View of tie Cau/es ami Confequcn
r, co of the present War with France.
By the Horrible Thomas Eksk.ni.
I U..s •« '
By John Fenno, N°- ii 9 Cbefmit Street.
Propofais 'jeiir,
For carrying MAIL S of the
United States on the. [Mowing " a d u
Poji Roads, will be received one
at the General PoJl-OJfice, in
Philadelphia, until the 31fl
day of July next, mclulive. l«
MA WE. Tuef
I. From Brewer's or Scoodie by Macbias, Chan- Frids
dler's river and Columbia, to Narraguagusonce 11A
a week. _ P M
Leave Brewer's every Saturday at i P M, and ao
arrive at Narrafuagus the next Tuesday by 6 r minf
Hr-Rcturning, leave Narraguagus every Weduef- and
day at 6a m, and arrive at the aex: Sa- Li
tnrday by io a M, 6 A
1. From Narraguigus by Gnultlfborough, Sulll- Li
van,Trent«n,Blushill, Cudine, Penobfcot, Bucks- arriv
ton, Fratikfort, Profpetl and Belfail to Duck- A
Trap once a wtfk. , day
Leave Nlrraguagiis every Wednesday by 6 a AH
m. and arrive at Quck Trap the next Saturday by Leoi
IQ am. JHtvrnmy. Leave Duck Trap every Sa- am
turday by ifu and arrive at Narraguajus the *i
next Tuetday by 6 p m ver,
13. From Duck Trap by Camden, Thomafton, Den:
Warren, Waldoborough, Newcjftle, Wifcaffet, wee
Bath, Brunfwick, Freeport and North Yarmouth L
to Portland once a week. at Si
Leave Duck Trap every Saturday by 1 r M, and "next
arrive st Portland the ne-t Tuesday by 6 pm. P-'- ever
turfing. Leave Portland every Wedrefday by 6 Tue
a h ,and arrive at Duck Trap the next Saturday by 10 f
to a M. 1
4. From Portland by Biddeford, Welles and Hoi
York, to Portimouth. L
April 15 h Oihi.r is. Leave Portland every arri
Monday, Wediiefdayaod Friday by 6 a it, and ar- iff.
Tlve at Portfnieiith th« fame days by 6r m. Rttur— arri
ing. I.eaVe Portsmouth every Monday, Wednef- *
day andi-'riday at yp M, and arrive at Portland on and
the next-day by 6. pm. I
Otftitr 1 st" April IS- Leave Portland every rive
Monday arid Thursday at 6 a m, and arrive at Lea
Portsmouth on Tuesday and Friday by 10 am. Ht- arri
turnip.- Leave Portsmouth every Tuefdjy and 2
Friday at I pm, and arrive at Portland every bur
Wednesday and Saturday at 5 P m . Am
5. From Portland by North-Yarmouth, Free- I
port, Brunfwick, Bath, Wifcaffet, Dresden, Pittf- arri
ton and Hsllowell Hook to Hallowell court house, turn
once a week. arr;
Leave Portland every Friday at lA. M, and .ar- a
rine at Hallowell court4ioufe the next Saturday by Rai
7 PM. Returning. Leave Hallowell court-house j
every Wednesday Isy 5A M, and arrive at Port- MOl
I land on Thursday by 6 P M. Tai
6. FromWifcaffet by Dresden, Pittfton, Hallo- for
well Hook, Hallowell eourt-houfe, Winthrop, eve
Monmouth, Green, New-Glouceiler and Gray to arr
I Portland once a week. Bo;
Leave Portland every Monday by 6A M, and 1
I arrive at Wifeaffet on Wednesday noon. Return- r y
I ing. Leave Wifeaffet on Wednesday at 3 PM, and ton
I arrive at Portland on Friday by 6 P M. Sat
. I 7. From Hallowell Hook by Vaffalboropgh, Be
-1 I Tort Halifax, Winflow, Fairfield apd Canaan to art
I Norridjewok once a wctk. To
I Leave Hallowell Hook every Wednesday at 11
IA M, and arrive *t Norridgewock on Thurlday W c
|by6PM. Returning. Leave Norridgewock on Be
I Monday at 2 PM, and arrive at Hallowell Hook riv
I on Tuesday by 6 PM. ke:
j J 8- From Hallowell Hook to Farmington on San- » t i
I dy river once in two weeks.
1 Leave Hallowell Hook every other Wednesday foi
]byS AM, and arrive at Farmington by 6 P M- a
. I Returning. Leave Farmington every other Thurf- tu
"I day at 8A M, and arrive at Hallowell Hook by 6 ,1a
J P M. , io:
I 9. From Portland by Falmouth, Gorhsm, Bux
-1 ton, Standilh, Limerick, Parfonfleid, Sliapleigh w
I and Lebanon to Berwick, once in two weeks.
Leave Portland every other Monday at 8A M, a r
I and arrive at Berwick on Wednesday by noon. p
1 Leave Berwick every other Wednesday at »P
I M, and arrive at Portland on FriSay by 6 P M. fit
10. From Standifli by Flinftown. Fryburg aca- w
demy,Conway andTamworth to Sandwich in New tfi
1 Hampftire once in two weeks.
I Have Standifh every other Tuafday by 8A M, rj
1 and arrive at Sandwich on Wednesday by 6 PM. Re- ai
I turnip. Leave Sandwich every other Thursday at 01
| 8A M, and arrive at Standilh on Friday by 6 N
PM. , T
11. From Wells by Waterboro', Sanferd, Dough- fc
" I ty's Falls, Berwick and Dover, to Portlmouth once d
irf a week. y , K
tj I Leave Wells every Tu 'fJay by 6A M, and ar- b
I ilve at Portsmouth on Wednesday by io A M. Re- F
I turning. Leave Portsmouth every Wednesday by 1
2 PM, and arrive at Wells next Thursday by 6 v
PM. d
NEW-HAMPSHIRE.
1 u. From Portsmouth by Dover, Rocheflcr and 1
I Moultonborough to Plymouth, returning by New- r
I Hampton, Meredith, Gilmrntcwn, Nottingham I
j and Durham to Portsmouth once in two weeks. c
ed I Portfmouth every other Wednesday by 8 s
ts, AM, and arrive at Plymouth the next Friday by 6 s
I PM. Returning. Receive the mail at Plymouth ;
J every other Saturday by 8 A M, and return to
I Portsmouth the next Tuesday by 4 P M.
I Note. •' The pest is to go aud return «n this route :
I alternately." 1
> I ij. From Portsmouth by Exeter, C,letter, Lon- ,
I donderry, Amherft, Peterborough ar,d Marlbo- :
I rough to Keene, once a week.
j Leave Portsmouth every Thursday by SA M,
I arrive at Exeter by one P M, at Chofter by 6 P M,
1 and at Keene on Saturday by 4 PM. Returning.
I Leave Keene every Monday by 8 A M, ajrive at
f I Chefler on Tu, fday by 4VM, at Exeter on Wed
nesday by 9 AM, and at Po tfmouth by 4 P M.
I 14. From Cencoid by Plymouth to Haverhill,
I once a week. /
I Leave Concord every Monday by 6 AM, arrive
I at Plymouth on Tuesday by 3 P M, and at Haver
-1 hill on Wednesday by 4 P M. Returning. Leave
I Havcrhillevery Thursday by 8 A M, arrive at
I Plymouth on Friday by 9 A M, and at Concord on
I Saturday by 4 P M.
I 15. From Exeter to Hampton Falls, three times
I a week from April 15 to OAobcr if. and twice a
I week from Oilabcr 15 to April 15.
Leave Hampton falls in one hour after the arriv-
I ai after the arrival of the mail from Boftan, and
I deliver it at Exeter in two hours, remain at Exeter
and I two hours and return to Hampton Falls in fix
I hours from tht time of leaving it.
MASSACHUSETTS.
I tf. From,Newburyport, Haverhill, Kingilon,
I Exeter, New Market and Durham to Dover once
a week.
Leave Newburyport every Monday by 10 A M,
arrive at Dover on Wednesday by noon. Return
'. ing. Leave Dover on Wednesday by 3 ? M, and
arrive at Newisuryport "n Friday by 3 P M.
17. From Salem to G lon cell e- once a week.
■jr/i. l eave Oloucefter every Wednesday by 7A M,
and arrive at flalem by II AM. Returning. Leave
nee. Salem „ cry Wednesday by 1P M, and at
i. Gloucefler by 6 P M.
$ Note, should this mailbe carried in a ItJge V is
NG, JUNE 1797.
to be carried as o't •» as tlie flag : runs, the hours r> 'I
detlred to be fia'eil ill the proposals. Thu
18. From Salem tn MirblebeaJ three times a hcol
week. Leave Salem' every Monday, Wednesday, brid
and Friday itniiiFiliitely after the rrrival of the by 6
mail from 801 l on, and deliver it at MarMthcjd in N
ono hour ami a half, leave M-irblchMd in one wed
hour and a (ial£ and r:turn to In two hours. Thu
19 From Boflon by Andover, KavcfhUl and hool
C 1 teller to Concord in N.' w Hampfeire once a on I
week. day
Leave Concord every Monday by 6 A M, arrive 3
at Chester by 2 P M, and arriv» at Ballon on ton,
Tuesday by 4P M. Returning. X.eave Boston every pole
Friday by 9 A M,arrive at Chefler on Saturday by wed
11 AM, and arrive at Concord on Saturday by 6 L
PM. "•')
ao. From Boston by Concord, Lancaster, I.e»- "
minster and Alhbutnham to Marlhorougb-, Kecr.e
and Walpole in New Hampfllire. , ... Frid
Leave ISoflon every Wudncfday and Saturday by po j,
6 AM, and arrive at Leominller by 7 P M. j l t ql
Leave Leominfler every Thursday by 6 AM, at Sl
arrive atKeene by 9 PM, &zt Walpole onFriday by 3
10 A M Returning. Leave Walpole svery Satur- rv
day er Suntfay by 5 A M, arrive .at Keene by 9 L
AM, and at Leomirfter in the evening. Leave at H
Leominlier every Monday and Thursday by 6 Rn
a m and arrive at Boftcnby 6 P m. m,
*l. From Bottou by Quincey, Hingham, Hano- 6 r
ver, Plymouth, Sandwich, Bar tillable, Yarmouth,
Dennis, Hatwich and Chatham to Trv.ro crice a _ 3
week- ' lan
Leave Boston every Thursday by 3 P u, arrive
at Sandwich on Friday by 6 p w, and at Truro the
"next Sur.iay by 6a k. Returning. Leave l'rurp
every Monday by 8 a m, arrive at Sandwich on
Tuesday by 7r M, and at .Boston on Thursday by f '
10 A M.
it. From Sandwich by Falmouth and Holmes
Hole to Edgartown once a week , t
Leave Sandwich every Saturday by 1 r m, and l cl
arrive at Edgarton oil Monday by 11 a m. Return- rive
ing. Leave Edgarton »n Monday by 1 f 11, and 3
arrive at Sandwich on Tusfday by noon. bur
13. From Boston by Sharon, Mansfield, Norton 1
and Taunton to Newport once a week. »" i
Leave Boston every Monday by 6 am, and ar- Lea
rive at Newport by 6pm, on Tnefday. Returning. Bui
Leave Newport every Wednesday by 8 a m, and S
arrive at Boston on Thursday by 6 pm. |
24. From Boston by Charleston, Medford,Wo
bur», Billerica, Chelnasford and Tyngboroegh to ? l
Amherft anre a week.
Leave Boston every Thursday by 10 a m, and Qn
arrive at Amherft the next Saturday noon. Re- ,j a
turning. Leave Amherft every Monday nocn, and
arrive at Boston on Wednesday by 3 r m. ,
»S- From Boston by Raynham, Bridgewater, Nc
Randolph and Taunton ts New Bedford. 1
Prom May l/» Nevemher 1. Leave Boston every Fri
Monday, wednesday and Friday at 10 rm, arrive at tht
Taunton the next day by 11 am, and at New Bed- po
ford by 8 p u. Returning. Leave New Bedford M >
every Sunday, Tuesday and Thursday by 10 P M,
arrive at Taunton the next day by 11 a m, and at P°
Boston by 8 p m lo
From November Ito May 1. Leave Boston eve •
ry wedaefday and Friday at 9a m, arrive at Taun- J,
ton by 8 p m, and at New Bedford on Thursday &
Saturday by 8 r m. Returning. Leave New < j c
, Bedford every Monday and wednesday by 9 a m. jt,
1 arrive at Tpunton Ly 8 p m, and at Boston on M
Tuesday and Thursday by 7 PM.
1 26. From New Bedford to Nantucket, twice a
' week from November Ito May 1. Leave New on
1 Bedford every Friday and Monday by 6 a m, ar-i
: rive at Nantucket in the evening. Leave iflantuc- rn
ket every Saturday and Tuesday by 10 a m, and wi
• arrive at New Bedford in the evening. by
From May Ito November 1. Leave New Bed
-1 ford every Monday, wednesday and Friday by 10 in;
- AM, and arrive at Nantucket in the evening. Re
- turning. Leave Nantucliet every Tue day, Thurf- ?'
5 day and Saturday at 8a m, and arrive at New Bed- 1,1
ford in the evening, winds and tide permitting. **
T 27. From Taunton by Bighton and Semerfctto
h warren or.ee a week.
Leave Taunton every wednesday by 5a m, and ; at
arrive at warren by 10 a m. Leave warren by 1 j 1
t m, and arrive at Taunton by 6 r m. 1 , t
P 28. From Eofton by Dei Sham, providence, plain- |
field, Norwich, Kew London, Saybrook, Killing- N
l- werth, Guilford and New Haven to New York 01
w tliree times a Week.
From May Ito November I. Leave Boston eve- L
1, ry Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday by [o i h, i
e- arrive at rrovider.ee by 6r m, arrive at Norwich R
at on wednesday, Friday and Monday by noon, at *
6 New London by 3t m, arrive at New Haven on
Thursday, Saturday and Tuesday by noon, at Stan- 8
ii- ford by 9 ra, and at New York on Friday, non- v
ce Jay and wednesday by 110011. Returning Leave
New York every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday
r- by 10 a m, arrive at New HaVen on wednesday,
't- Friday and Monday by 1 p m, at Norwich on J
by Thursday, Saturday and Tuesday by noon, at no- ,
6 videnccby 8 pm, and at Boston on Friday, Mon- (
day and wednesday by I r u
November Ito nay I. Leave Boston every I
nd Tuefjay, Thursday and Saturday by 9 a M, ar- 1
or- rive at providence the next days by 9am, at New t
im London every Thursday, Saturday and Tues
day by noon, at New Haven on Friday, Monday I
r 8 and wednesday by 3?m, at Stratford by 5 t m, I
f 6 and arrive at New York on Monday, wednesday <
ith and Friday by II am. Returning. Leave New •
to York every Saturday, Tuesday and Thurlday by 11 '
a m, arrive at Stratford the next days by 8 p m, ut
ute New Haven on Tuelday, Tkurfday and Saturday '
by 9 a m, at New London on wednesday, Friday
sn- aud Monday by J r m, at providence, Thursday,
bo- Saturday and J'uefday by 4 r m, at Bbfton on Fri
day, Monday and wednesday by 3 rli.
M, 21). From Boston by Dedham, uendon, PomfreV
M, and Tolland to Hartford once a week.
ing. Leave Boston every Thursday by 7 a m , arrive
at at Hartford the next Saturday by 6r m. Return
ed- ing. Leave Hartfard every Monday by 8 A M,
and arrive atßoftou on wednesday by 5 r m.
Rill, 30. From New Bedford t« Newport once a
week.
rive Leave New Bedford every Thursday by 6 a 11,
«r- and arrive at Newport by 4p m. Leave Newport
rave every Friday by 8 am, and arrive at New Bedfori
: at by 5 t m.
1»n 31. From woacjftcr ky Rutland, p:terlham and
Northfield to Brat'lt borough once a week,
mes worcefter every luefdaykyi m. ar.d
ce a jrrive at BrattleTiorough on wednesday by 6 p m.
Returning. Leave Brattleborough every Thurf
riv- Jjy by 6a m, and arrive at worccftcr on Friday
and noon.
c, * r 31. prom Brso'afield by BJchcctown, North
-1 " X ampton, worthiugtoii,phtslielJ and Hew Lebanon
to Albany
Leave Brookfuld every Tuesday and Friday by
fton, 9 AM, arrive at Northampton by 6 p m. l.cavc
once Northampton every wednesday and Saturday ai 5
I a m> arrive at ritttfield by I P M, and at Albany
M,, on Thursday and Monday by 7 r m. Rcturiiiug.
■turn. Lca>e Albany every wednesday and Saturday at 5
, and A m, arrive .t pittsfield by 5 r m, at Northnmp
ton on ThurfcVy arvd Vcrday by 7 f m, ai:d ar
rive at Brookfield on Friday and Tuesday by 4
' M, r M.
-" ve 33. From SptinjrTtrld ky Weflfiejd and Stock
* e al bridge to Kinder he ok ence a week.
1> ii May I toNovimbcr I. Springfield eve-
r> Tuesday by J» M, arrive at Kinderhook »n t
Thursday by 0 P M. Returning. Leave Kinder
hook every Fr.day by 9 a at, arrive as Slodt» '
bridge ky j» m. I.cave Stockbridge on Monday
by 6 * m , and arrive at Springfield by 7 r m .
November I to May I. Leave Springfield every
vrsdnefdny at 6 a m, apd airlve at Kinderhook on
Thursday by 2» m. Returning. Leave Kinder
hook on T!;urf»'.ay by 4 t m, arrive at Stockliridge
on Friday noon Leave&ocklrridg~ every Tnet
day at 6 a m, andarriveat Springfield by 7 r m.
34. From Suffield by WeftSp injfirld, Northamp
ton, Greenfield, Wcftminfler, Wai ■
pole, Cbarleftown and VVuidiox to Hanover twice a
week.
Leave SuffWd every Tuesday and Friday at 8 a u,
ar'ive at Northampton by t r m, at Walpoleou Wed
nrfday and Saturday by 5 PM, at Windsor on Mon
day and Thurlday by * r u, and at Hanover by f t
til. Returning. I.five Hanover every Tuesday and.
Friday by 6 A m,arrive it Windsor by 1 r M, at Wai
p<tfc on 'Vednrfday and Saturday by 7 r m, and at
Northampton on Thurlday a;:d Monday by naen,xod
at Sufneld by 7 p M.
35 From Hanover by Or ford and Havcrhi' 1 , to
Newbury once a week.
Leave Hanover every Wednesday by 6 AM, arrfce
at Haverhill by 4 r m, and at Newbury by £ r M.
Retyroing. Leave Newbury every Thursday b\ 6 a »
m, arrive at Haveibillby 8 am, and ai Hanoyer by
6 r M.
V- RMuXT.
36. From Windsor, by Koyalfton, Randolph, Wil
liam fton and Maiupclier is Burlington once in two
weeka.
Leave Windsor every p'her Thursday by 6 a m»
and arrive at Burlingio 1 the next Saturday by 6 r 14.
Returning. Leave Burlington every other Monday
by 6 am, aid arrive at Wtndloi on Wednesday by 5
r m
37. From Windsor to Ru'landorcea week.
Leave Rutland every Mouday hy j-« m, arrive
at Windsor on Tuesday bv pM. Returning.
Leave Windsor every W,ednefd«y 6 am, and ar
rive at Rutland on Thursday by 6 r m.
38. From Burlington by Vcrgeiinea and Middle*
bury to Rutland once a week-
Leave Burlington every T! urfday by 8 a m, and
arrive at Rutland on Saturday by 6P m. Returning.
Leave Rutland evrry Monday by 8 a m. and arrive at
Burlington on Wednelday noon.
34. From Rutland by M«nchefter, Bennington,
Lanfingburg and Troy to Albany.
Leave Rutland every Monday at 8 A M,and r.rrivc
at Albany the next Wednelday by 6 p as. Return
ing. Leave Albany every Thursday by 8a w, and
arrive at Bennington by 7P K. Leave Bennington
on Friday by 8 a m, and anive ai Rutland an Satui
day by 7 f M
RHODE-ISLAXD.
40. From Providence by Bristol and Warren to
Newport.
Leav* Providence every Monday, Wednesday and
Friday and Friday by 7 A M,and arrive at Newport
the fame daya bv j r». Returning. Leave New
port every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday by 8 A
m, and arrive at Providence by 4 p m.
41. From Ptovidence by Kaft Gieenwieh fcNew
port, South Kingfion, Wefierly and Stonington Point
to New London onee a week.
Leave Providence every Tuesday by tin, and
arrive at Newport by 6 pm, leave Newport every
Wednesday by 6 A M, and arrive at New London on
Thuifday by noon. Returning. Leave New Lon
don on Thursday by 3 p M.and arrive at Newport on
Friday by 6 P M, leave Newport on Monday by f x
M. and arrive at bv 5 p m.
COMICUCUT.
4a. From Hartford by Windham to Norwich
once a week.
Leave Hartford every Tuesday hy 6 A M,«nd ar
rive at Norwich by 7p m. Returning. Leave Nor
wich every Monday by 6 A M, and arrive at Hartford
by 7 P m.
43 From Hartford by Middjetown, Modus Land
ing and Colchefier to New-London, oncea week.
Leave Hartford every Tuesday at 1 r m, and arrive
at New London on Wednesday by 7 pm. Return
ing. Leave New London every Thurlday by 11 a
m, and arrive at Hartfor d on Friday by 7 p m.
44. From Hartford bv New Harnotd, Canaan,
' Sheffield and Hillfdale to Hudson onee a week
Leave Hartford eve 1 y Monday itim, and arrive
at Hudson on Wednesday by 11 A K. Reiurning.
Leave Hudson every Wednelday at a » u, aud arrive
It Hartfoid on Friday liyn am.
45. From Hartfoid by Litchfield, New Milford,
- New own, Darrbury and Ridgefield to New York
.' once a week.
Leave Hartford every Monday by >0 a m, arrive at
- Litchfi Id by 7'm, at New Milford on Tuesday by
It am, and at New York on Thursday by-8 am.
Returning. Leave New Yotkevery Thursday by 4
t fm, arrive at New Milford ion Saturday noon, at
, Litchfield by 7' M i »nd « Hartfoid 011 Monday by
8 am.
46. From New-Haven hy Derby, Southbury,
Woodbury, Bethlem, Litchfield and Gofficn, t» Ca
naan, once a werk.
" Leave Canaan every Monday oion, arrive at Litch
'' Held by 7 P NT, and at New Ha v en on Wednesday by
" 10 Am. Leave New Haven every Wednesday by »
" pm, arrive at Litchfield on Thursday noon, and at
* Canaan by 7p m.
47. From New York by White Plains, Bedford,
T Fredericktown, Dover, Shar"t», Sheffield, Great
:- Barrington, Stockbridge, Piutfield and WilliamftoD
iv to Bennington
f- I.cave New York every Monday, Wednesday and
ly Friday at iA M, the next Wednesday, Friday and
„ Monday at 6 PM. Returning. Leave Bennington
, y ' every Thursday, Saturday and Tuesday by 5A M,
and arrive at New York the next Saturday, TueCday
~ and Thurlday by 6P M.
If the stages run but Once a week on this route the
mail i»to leave New Yoik every Monday at ,5 AM,
'J arrive at Ueonington on Wednesday by 6P M. Lcavic
sy Bennington on Thurlday by j AM, and arrive at
7» New York on Saturday by 6P M.
ri * 48. From New York by Yonkers, Pecklkill, Fifli
kill, Poughkeepfie, Rhinebe.:k, Redhook, Clermont,
■ev Hudson, Claverac and Kindcrhook to Albany three
timeiaweck.
ve Leave New York every Monday. Wednesday and
n- Friday by IP M, arrive at Tarrytown by 8 1' M.
M, Leave Tarrytown every Tuesday, Thursday and Sa
turday »ts A M, arrive at Poughkeepfie by 7 P M.
a Leave Poughkeepfie Wednesday, Friday and Sunday
by jA M, arrive at Kinderbook by 7P M. Leave
„ Kinderhook every Thursday, Saturday and Monday,
ort at jA M, and arrive at Albany by 8A M. Rctiirn-
A l inf. Leave Albany Thuifday, Saturday and Mon
day by 3 P M, enivr at Kinderhook by 7 P M.
, Leave Kindei hook Friday, Sunday and Tuesday, at
,5 am, arrive at Pouihkcenfie bv 7 r », Leave
. Poughkeepfie Saturday, Monday and Wednesday, at
" rd JAM, arrive at Tarrytown by 7P m. Leave Tirry
town every Snnday, Tuesday ana Thursday, at 5 a
Lir u, arrive at New Vorkat,ia am.
Jay 49 , f r om Albany by Troy aud Lanfingburgh, to
Saltm, once a week.
rt) , Leave Albany every Tuesday at 8 a M, arrive at
non Lanfinxbnrgli hyD»«, ««d at Salem by 4t m. R«-
turning. I.tavcSalem every Monday, Uy 8 am, and
« ai rive at Albany by 5f k.
40. Fiorn Salem by Gianvillc, Fairbaven* Vcr
:aVC gennrs, Bason-Harbour, USllfcoro', Peru and Plain
-11 5 burgli, lo Champiain-towo, once in two week*,
,an Y Leave Salcin every other Wednesday by jam, «n<i
lU E- aniveal the next Sunday by 5t m. Re
u 5 tuining. L««vc-Piattfl>urgW tvery oiher Monday at 8
m P" a m, and arrive at Salcin the next Friday by a r m.
«r- s i. From Lanfingburgh by Waterford, Stillwater,
>y 4 Fort Edward, Whitehall landing and Ftiibaven, to
Rutland, in Veimout.
. Leave Lanfingburgh every Thuifday by »*>n t and
arrive'at Rutland the next Saturday by 6 r m. Re
turning. Leave Rutland every Monday by m
eve- ?ndar*i%e at Lanr»ngl»ur|h on ThurMaj- by ica^i
[VoLvatn XI.«. rro.T?' AV.J by Sche.;rA<Jv, HiU, 1
Coratohfrv' C.e'mau Flam. O'dTrwt Schivler »»;. ft
VOittrenwato Ron*. Thtt MS dif.rta tAi,tiled w
thr+riPoft/i. .
5 SeheneGi.lv by B>!ltown Spi.ngt and L.
CVnft id re to Surdy HiU • _»™' v
Leave SchriKflady every Tuesday by 6a M- atwl- t«jij
H"ivr ar Sandy HiU by 4.• «, Leave Wy H.H o« amU
Wrdactlay by 6- *m, and ar.ive at bchcueaaUy by Wa.
4 ,M FrrmTripelhitltoJiihnftonoriceaweck. o«f<
Leave Tripefbill in one hour after the mad arrivfl L
from Albany on Tuc'day, arrive t Johr.fton in two nye
f>oui«. I'av at ]ohnfto« two houri, and return to Ra
Tri .(Oiilliii two houra. e
55. Fr. m Conajobarry by Cherry Valley to Coo- S
i»i 1 iwn.twicea week. " '
1 -ave Loiw : oharry every Weiinefday and Saturday I
, h A .w, „11(1 arrive at Cooperftawn by «» M. «•
Le»>e Cuope. flow n every Tuesday and Friday by 10 Ma
fy M. and arrive at Conajoharry ty 6 r m. uai
From Cooptrftown Bv Butternut*and Oxlord
10 lTr..ir n once in two wecki. .
UaveVWot, every ottfer Monday by 10 a m, and
'airive at Oooptrftown on Weditefday by 5p m. Re- we
luM.ins. Lwlve CooperlWn every other Thuitday
•bv 6 a M ,ii>d arrive at Unit nor. Saturday by 3r m. ai"
5 7 . Kroirt O'J Fort Schuyler by Cincinnati to K<
Oxtord A,cadc my once in two weeks. 3
Leave Ore F-rt Schuyler everv other Tliurfdav by ■« 1
6 am, and arrive at Oxford on Friday noon. Re
turning. Leav, Oxford eviry other Friday by 1 »a,
and airiviatOld Fort ScHuyltr on Saturday by 7
"" jft. From Rome by '0 Pnce w '
" Imßmrw every othorTlui'fdry by I*a m, and U
arrive at Rotterdam by 6 tm. Returning. Leave 11
K-mcrdam every othcl Friday by 9A M, aud arrive U
tffeoiuf by 6P M. . _ * . c . . *
La l*,jrn Ron;? bv One.da, Onondaigua,Scipio
abJ to Kaiiandalgua onee a week-
Leave Rome every rhu'rfday by to A M, and ar.
rive at Kanand«fl(aa the next "Monday by 6 AM. ' r
Leave every M-ndav by 10 A M, and
arrive ai Rwnethe B»*t-Thiir!day by 8 A M. "
6... from Kanandaigua by Hattford to Niagaia
* •i-ce-in Vt?ks.
Lca\e K.!nar.dain«a every other Monday by 10 A
M, and anive at Niagara the next Wednesday by 7 1 »
■M. /Returning. Leave Niagara eve'y other Fiiday L
by 6A M, and arrive at Kanandaigua the next Mon- ai
day by 6 'A M.- ,
6t. Frpm Rhinebeek by Kingston, Shawangunk, w
Grfhen, Hamburg, Newtown, Hack
et'l-.wn.andMOrrillowntpNiwaik, to return Irom K
Moriilioan by Reckaway aad Spaitato ai
Newtown cnce^ajgL^k.
leave RhinclrcKtvery Friday by.s A M.arrneat .
Gclhen on Saturday at 7 A M, at Newtown by 7 P
M at Hacketftown ami Motriftown on Sunday, and a
it Newark on Monday by 10 AM. Returning, n
Leave Newark every Monday by, aP M, arrive at e
Uooneton ar.d Roekaway on Tuefday,at Newtown by c
7 PM, at Gofhen on Wednesday at 5 PM, aud at
Rhrntbctk on Thursday by 9 P M. 5
6a £icm New Yoik by Hacken r ack, Paramus, 11
Ne v Antrim and Chester to Gcfhen once a week.
Leave Xew.York every Friday at 7 A M, and ar-- 1
rive at Goll.en ob Saturday by 6 P M. Returning. J
Leave Gothcn every Tuesday at 6A M, and arirve at j
New Yorkori Wednesday by 6 P M. |
63. From FWhk.il! by Newbufgand New Windsor
to Golhen in ct a we^k.
Leave Fifbkill e«ery Wednesday by 7 AM, and c
arrive at Golhen by 5 P M. I eave Gnfhrn every
Tuesday at 7A M, and arrive at Filhkill by jP M. j
b}. From New Y»rk by Jimaica, Huntington,
Smi-mown, Brookhaven, Suffolk, Southampton &
l5(il;e m; tun taSagl a.bout once a wiek.
Leave N w T;nk every Thursday at 10 A M, ar.d
arrive at Sagharbour the next Saturday by 6 P M.
Leave every Monday at 8A M, and ar- ;
rive a New York on Wednesday by jP M.
NiiV-JiRSiY. •
65. Frotn Woodbridge to Amboy three times a
v/cck.
Leave Woo Abridge every Monday, Wednesday ft
.Friday at 8A M, and atnve at Amboy by 9 AM. j
I.' e Amboy at noon and arrive at Woodbridge by
1 P M.
06 From Trenton by Allentown, Monmouth
cour-.-h.iufe, Shre-, lbury, Middlctown Point, Spotf
-wcod, New Brunfwiek, Soniorfet, New Germanton,
I'lttllon ai:d Flemir.gton to Trenton once a week.
Leave Treotou every TueWay by 10 A M, and re
turn to Trenton the next Tuesday by 6 A M.
67. From Philadelphia by faunton and Atiion to
Tucktrton once in two weeks.
Leave Philadelphia every other Wednesday by 3
P M,-arrive at Tuckefton on Thursday by 6 P ivi.
Leave Tinkirto.i everyothcr Tuesday by 6 A M, aad
arrive 4t Philadelphia on Wednesday by 9 A M.
fci. Fiom Pniiadelphia by Woodbury, Swedefbo
rsugh, Wood flown aad Salem >0 Bridgetown once a
"Yeave Philadelphia every Wednesday afternoon by
3©'clock, and airive at Bridgetown on Friday by 2
PM. Leave Bridgetownon Satuidayatß AM, and
arrive at Philadelphia 011 Wednesday at 9 AM.
69- Fiom Pbtladilphia by Jenkintown, Plumilead
and Pipers by Bethlehem to Fallon once a week.
Leave Philadelphia every Wednesday by to A M,
and arrive at Eaftoa on Thursday by aP M. Return
ing. Leave Eafton every Monday at 9 A M, and ar
rive at Philadelphia on Tuesday by 3 P M.
70. From Plumilead by Pipers and Alexandtia to
.Puiflon oncca <veek.
Leave Pluniflcad every Thursday by j A M, ariive
at Pit.lion by ti AM. Leave Pi'ttton by 1P M,
and ariive at Plumftead by 7 P M.
71. From iallon to W illnelbmre onee a week.
Leave Eailou every Thuriday by 3 PM, and arrive
at y ili-tfVirre on Saturday noon. Rctarning Leave
Wllkelbarrre every Tuelday noon, and arrive at Ea
•ltoa every Thuriday by noon.
7». From Philadelphia by Norridown, Trap,
Pottfgrove, Reading, Lebanon aad Harrilbutg to
CrrliOr.
Oftober 151* April 15 Leave Philadelphia every
Tuelday and Thurluay at fjnlet, arrive at R'ading
» c%eiyThurlday and Saturday at 4 P M Leave Read
ing every Friday at 8 A M, arrive at Cariifle every
Sunday by It M. Riturning Leave Cariifle eve
ry Sunday by 2 P M, arrive at Reading on Tuesday,
by 4 P M, leave Reading every Wednesday and
Monday by 8 A M, and arrive at Philadelphia ou
Thursday ami Tuesday by 4 P M.
April 14, to Oftober Lc .e Philadelphia eve
ry Wedaeldayand Friday at 8 A M, arrive 11 Read
ing cn ihur day and Saturday by »i AM. Leave
Reading every Thurfdiy noon, and ar'ive at Catlifle
thenext Saiuiday by 11 A M. Returning. Leave
Cailiflc every Monday noon, arrive at Reading 011
Tuesday by. 7P M. Leave Reading every W. dncf
cay and Monday at 8 A M, and anive at Philadel
phia on Thursday and Tuesday by 9 A M
73. from Reading bv HamLrurg* Sunbjry and
Northumberland to Louifburg oucr a week-
Leave Reading exerjr iiriday at 6 A M, and arrive
at Louifbuig 011 Monday by 10 A M. Returking.
I dave Louifburg every Tuelday noon, and ar<ivc at
Rcadiflg'on Thursday by 4 P M.
74. From UairiJburg by Petersburg, Mi!!erfto\*«,
Thoiupfoutovwiii Mifilintcwn* Lou.ftown» Hun:inc
don, i\!cxar.dria, Centre Furnace, fiille Fount t M>lcl'-
burg, Aerorifcnrg, Miflliuburg, Louifburg, Northum
berland, Sunbury and llalitax lo Ha.rilburg once in
two weeks'.
Leave Hairiiburjt every Sa'orday by 6 A M, waft
jngat poll 01V.ce wh'.ch lhaii be eflablilbed on
thei«ute, two hours, aud return again to Mania'burg
thcMxt Monday by 8 A M
75» Fioin So a. cr let by Conoellfville to Union once
a wtek.
Leave Pitlftjurg every Friday nocn and arrive at
Wheeling on Satu«day by feopflk Returning. Leave
Wheeling tvery 'lhuifday bv 97l ar.d arriv« at
FUtfburg on Saturday jy 10 A \l.
75 LeaxcSomerfeievery Thursday by 5 A. M arrive
at Union by P. M. Lttvc Union wen bv
S A. M and arriye atSomerfrtbv 7 P. hi.
76. Fiom Piitlbirgbv Cannoi.Hju g, Wafbingtra
tiid Weft Liberty to Wheelingohcea week.
77. Frrm Prcfton by Wafhicgfon to Cincinnati
once a week.
Leave Enftoo every Fr''day it noon, ariiveatWafh
. r*gton bvBPM, ai dat Cine.ui ati.the next Monday
Boon. Returning. Leavr Cincinnati cvei y Tuesday
at 6 AH, aid anise ar \Va(b»ngioa on Wednesday
bys PM. Lciv«,Wafliinglon at 9P M, aad arn\e
i reftin on Fi.day by 11J
K*\IVCAY.
tl'aftiii.gion bv
Lex'ttglon, rtarikiort and Hurot£burg to DjnviHe
fcnce a wetk,.
by 8 A M» an«.
arrive**. Danville the ntjc' Monday by 5P M. Kr
umunj, Teavr panvilTc c%*ry Tuifday by BAM
amCarVivfe at Lexington on Wcrit»t>i~d%y noon, a: d at
\\kfliin*>t ; n on Thursday T M,
yg. .From Danvilh to Leu Cv.lie by Bcatdrtown
ont« i« two wreki deli
Leave I>«nville ev#ry o'her Tu**May bv noon, ar
live at L'i<ui> r ville the Thu»May by 3 P
Returning. Leave Lnuilville every **Y
6A M, and anive at Danville on S* urdav by 6PM J^ c
8a Fiom D.nvjlle by Stamford anil CuMbei land-
Gap toMotfal'a lloie in Vennefleeooce a week.
I.rave D.invillc every Monday at 2P M- and arrive
at'Moffat'i ftnreihe nex T1 urfday by 6TM. Leave
Mattai'a fto.cr.rty Friday bv 6 .1 M, aud anive ar (f
Danville on M'andatr hv »o A NL g-g
TENXISSI.E..
Bi. F;om Ksoxville by South Weft Point and
Fnft"B ! Qunt and Craig Fvt to Nalhviile once in tw6
weeks'- tic
Leave Knoxville every other Tnefday by 8 AM, or j
and anive a'Nalhviile'the next Monday by gJ M- _ .
Re'u'Mag- Leave Nafhvilleeveiy other Mondavby P
3P M, and anive at Knoxville the next Samdayby td
•U P M. atii
I'ARYLAND AUD I'IRGIKIA. - - g
Ba. From Baltimore by Ellieot'a Lower Mails,
Moe'tgomery Ouit Hrule, Charle(fo"{, Leefourg, pu
MiddieLu ; g and Warrenton to Culpeper, c h. once a be
j Week G r
Leave Baltimore every Monday, roon, arrive at P
I Leclbuig on Tuesday evening, and at Culpeper Cru.t Jj
: I Hc.ule the next ThuHday noon. Returning. Leave ilO
: I Culpti.er Ccuit Hcufe every F. iday noon aud arrive an
at Baliirocie the next Monday by p A M, 0 £
1 83. From Allen'afrefh by Ludlow's rerry to Port
I Conway in Virginia ooce.in two week», °F
. I Lea%e Allen's Frifh every other Monday Iry 6/<M, nr
Imd arrive at Pott Coiiway by 6P M. Returning. w;
1 I l eave P.irt C tiway c\ery other Tuelday by 8A M, »
I and arrive at Allen's Frefn by" J P M.
a 84 Frotn Morgahtown by Pejty Johtfto lo Clarkf- pi
1 bury once in titfo weeks. in
. Leave Mergantown every other Monday by p A c j
' M, and arrive at Clarksburg by 5 PM. Returning.
f Leave Clarksburg every other Tuesday by 8A M, and
- ! arrive at Morgantown by 8 P ; M Cf
85. From Tcdds to King and Queen, c. H. once a ti
- Leave Toddl every Thursday by 9A M, arrive at tl
n King and Queen by 11 AM Leave King and Queea g
0 I at 1 PM, and airive at Todds by 6 P M. I ir
80. Erom Halifax by Danville t« CaCwell court
it licufe once in two weeks.
p Leave Halifax'courr-homfe every oiher Tuesday.by
d I 2 PM, airive at Calw ell court house the next Wed- C'
~ nefday by 6? M. Returning. L ave Cafwell C. H". e
It Icvery other Thurfaa; by 6A M, and arrive at Halifax ;' t
y I couri-hnuie on Friday by noon, j
It I 87. From Peterfburgh by Su.Tei court hcufe
I sr.d Southampton court house to South Qnay, onc« ; n
s, I in two weeks. | b
I.eDTe Peteriburg evsry other Wednesday by 6 c ]
-'I A M and arrive at South on Thursday by 6
!• ll s M- Returning, !-outh Qnay every other .
lt I Monday by 6 A M and arrive at Pcterfburg on ?
I Tuesday by 3 1* M. ®
>r NORTH CAROLINA, Gc e
I 88. From Newbern to Beaufort and Swar.fboro'
I once in two weeks, the mailt® go alternately.
y I Ltave Newbern ev«ry other Thursday by 6 A
IM, remain at each of the offices two hours, and I
I return to Newbeia the next . I
I 8;. Frem Wilmington by Georgetown to Char- r
j I lefton, once a week. x
j j L«ave.\Vilmiugton every Monday by 6A M
,1 I and arriva at Charleston the next Thursday by 10
1A M. Leave Charieflon every Thursday by 3P 1
I M and arrive at Wilmington the next Sunday by ]
a 5 PM. ' :
90. From Norfolk by Kempfville, Gr=:t Bridge ,
a I and North Weft River Bridge to Jon'eiboro", once
il. J in two A^etks.
ay I Leav: Norfolk every other V/ednefday at 9 A 1
I M and arrive at Jocifboi o' en Thursday by 7V M. 1
'b IHeturnirg. Leave Jontlboro' every other Monday ]
I by 10 A M and jirrive at Norfolk on Tuesday by 6
in ' I I- M.
I 91 From North Well River Bridge by New Le-
I I anon to Elizabeth city, rr.ee in two weeks.
I Leave Ncrth Weft River Eridgc every other
to I Friday by 6. A M add arrive at Elizabeth city by
, - 16P M. Leava Elizabeth city ev.ry other Satur-
V j. I day by 6aV M, and arrive at N. W. river bridge
nd I-by 6rM. %
j 91. Fxom Salem, N. C. by Bethania, Flower
>0- j Gap Grayfoncourt-boufe and Auftinville toWythc
= a I court-house once in two wetks.
Leave Salem every other gaturday by 6 A M,
by I and arrive at Wythe c. h. the next Mon. by 6 r M.
2 I Leave Wythe coust-heufe every other Tuesday by
"d 9 m, and arrive at Salem the next Thursday by
,6PM.
I 93- from Murfrcifboro' by South Quay to Suffolk
I once a week.
I From Murfrcefboro' every Wednesday by 6A M,
,n " I arrive at Suffolk by 6P M. Returning. LeaveSuf
ar" I folk every Tuesday by 6A M, and arrive at Murfreef
I boro* by 6 P M.
110 I 94. From Fayctteville to Pit'.fburg once in two
I weeks.
* vc I Leave Fayetteville other Wcdnefday by 6 A
W| J M, aud airive at PitUburg on Thuifday at
I Leave her Thuiftiay by 2 PM, andar-
I rive at Favetteville on by 6 P M.
I GEORGIA AND SOUTH-CAROLINA.
avc I 95* ® ?rom by Robinson at the White
Ea " I Ponds aad Gille'.s mills to Coofahatohy, once a
I week.
ra P' I Leave Augusta every Tuesday by 8A M and ar
l° I rive at Cicfahatchy 011 Wednesday by 7P M. Re-
I turning. Leave Coofahatchy every Sunday at 6 A
I aß< * arr » veat Agufta on Monday by jP M.
•ad- I Frcm Gto™eto\vn to Rocky Landing in
, <r y j Georgia, once in two weeks.
-v e I Leave Georgetown every other Morday at 6 A
day,l M, and arrive at Rocky Landing at 5P M. Re
awd I turnil g. Rocky Landing every other'Tuef-
I iiay i)> 6AM and arrive at Georgetown by 6 PM.
:ve- I Note I. The Pnjt Majler General may alter the times
•ad- I of arrival and dcf>tn lure at any time duriug the continuanee
•ave 1 , f the contracts, be previwjly ftipul*ting an adequate covt
lifle I sensation far any extra etcpenfe that may be •ccajwned there ■
-* vc \by „
°' ) I N#te %. Half an hour stall be allowed Jar offering
j C |~ I clofxnv the Ttiailat all ajfitct tv here no particular time
I fp-<M
, I Note 3. For eVity hour's delay (unavoidable ateidents
an I excepted Jin aiming after the times preferred in any con-
J tTA& x the Contractor JhaU JorJeU one dntat, and if the de
riv^ C 1 lay continne until the departure any depending Mail,
in *' I whereby the kiails dcjlmed Jcr such deptndiig Mail, Lfe
* at I a trip, an additional [orjcitune vf Jive do.lars JhaU It
1 incurred'
,NA ' I Nje 4, Neiufpapers as tve'lac Let, en are to be feni
ilef* I ln Mails ; and if any person making propefuls defnts
urn- I ° £ arry neufpapers other Ikm tbofe conveyed in the mail,
e in I f ir °** rn emolument, be mujl fate in bis propefuls J'or
I what fm he -will earrj it with that emolument and for
vait- I " w^at J um ivitAont that tmolument.
lon I botes S'jcnid anyperfon making proposals desire an
burg J alteration of the time of arrival and departure above fpc-
I e'f.ed t he m uft fate in his proposals tie alterations djired t
Mice Ja t I tie difference they 11; ill make in the terms of lis ton -
I tra67.
eat I Note 6. Perfovt maiirg prop "fait are drftred to fate
reave I their prices by the year. Ihofe ivbo eontratx will reeeive
• a* their pay quart:rly. in the months *f January, April,
I July and Ofloher. 9
rr ' vc Nje 7. Tbe ctktrc&s are to be in operation on the frft
y Y day of Cfloler rext, and continue for foil/ year/, until
I the fr(l of Oolvbir iSoi—exempting centrums for the
gtrn j rml<, N♦. 8, 91 10, 31, 36, ST, W, 74,
76, 77. 80, 81, 83, 84- 87. 9°. 9'. 9>> 96
iinat i art (. 15; t nicjct l-jio • tars until tJlji »f Oa.jer,
x 799-
'aft- JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
lld, y J Mtjler CirurM.
fday j G nera! Poft-OfF.ce, Philadelphia, >
ir»i May 27th, 1777. * 5
I Julc u th&ratj
%ijt(Kajette. H ,
PHILADELPHIA,
THURSDAY EVENING, JNN*E't.
■ ■ ■ » - " 1 ' , —^~ m — cafe
A CHARGE, cefi-o
delivered to the .Grand Jury of the United
States, for the Dittnft of Virginia, in the (on
Citcuit Coiirt of the United States, held at post
Richmond, Mas 22t1, 1797, 'by tion
J MmM Hi h'.iji-.j. 1., " t:
one of the afTcciate Judges of' ths Supreme « 0
Cot t of' the United States. " f
( Pub'i/bfd at the rrqutfi of Ue~'Ced-vd-fu>X-) "' *
CfiNTLEitEN OF TrtE 7 ' '
GRAND lURY, 3 *
THE frequent returns of c&ilits of jus- ,
tice naturally occafibri'us to nefltft tjn ! the << }
origin from which they flow. HoVcver De
painful such review- may be to Dome nations, tiot
to us it can afford nothing luit fatisfaolkm
and gratitude. We trace the origin 6'foUrs
1 as well as of every other authority to the j u
ptirefl source from which any authority C3n 1 ,r
be derived, the spontaneous but deliberate ; r ]t,
grant of the people themselves for whose fca
benefij it is eitablifhcd. Liberty to a con- tor
fiderable degree had fubfiftcd iii other ages
and in other countries, but fuih an exercise
of it as this (notWithstanding the fanciful (0
opinion of some ingenious writers) probably so ;
firft took place in our own. The attempt f a |
• was noble, and the success hiUierto has lie
' been beyond all expectation. Whether its th
. bleflings are to be preserved or loft, must,
in no small degree, depend on the conduit
1 of the people themselves. j
[ ■ If they with for good laws, they must ec
choose able and disinterested men to make itl
a them. If they wish for officers adequate to fe
their stations in the other departmenrs of cl
government, it is in their power diredtly or *
I indirectly to fecurethcm by a discreet and
" | judicious exercise of the choice with which w
| they are inverted. If in any particular their g,
confidence should be abused, a plain and ad- "
I", equate remedy is provided. After a stated "
x interval their legislators may be changed— "
- 1 Without any delay but such as the occasion (<
, j must require, any pubh'c officer who has mis- „
j behaved is liable to trial, puniihment, and <1
6 disgrace. To this may be added, what "
6 probably is not the weakest restraint, the "
* i general odium that must attend a manifeft "
departure from duty in an important public "
employment. _ „
The people at large having these fecuri- „
ties for the faithful discharge of offices of <i
lti public trust, it is fit that those whom they '
seleCt as their officers {hould have some fecu
r- rity on their part. It is not to be presumed, ®
that men, chosen as they are, should be re- *
w markably deficient either l'n ability or integ- f
p rity, and therefore they have a right to ex- ,
,y I peit that their conduft should not immedi- t
ately be condemned merely because some
K e persons an: ready to find fault with it. The j
" talk they have to perform is of no common 1
A magnitude, both as to difficulty and impor- 1
u. tanee. If in the small concerns of private (
ay life, few men can condudt themselves with ,
6 ftridt regularity and exactness, and unexpec- .
ted difficulties will disconcert even the moil
orderly and discreet, can we conceive the
er path perfeftly plain and obvious for the go
by vernment of millions of men, who, though
lr " pofTefling one common and united interefl,
® e have an infinite variety of private views,—
. r tending to divert them from the great ob
lie }e£t of union, even if their underltandings ;
and dispositions were perfectly alike. But '
if to this we add the various degrees of their ;
l l ' understanding, their different means of im- j
by provement and information, the delusive |
and dangerous passions by which many are j
jlk glided, the adtivity of bad citizens, the fu- j
M pinefs of good, until some critical alarm alike j
u s! | attuates both to a struggle which may en- j
ef danger the government-at the moment when !
its utmost energies are necessary, we Caonot '
vronder at the diversity of opinion which :
; a prevails in refpedt to most public measures, '
M. nor at the consequences which follow from't
rival sentiments, too apt to disturb the tem- |
per even of the best minds, but which, un- ■
lite avoidably, give a full scope to the passions"'
: * of weak, arrogant, or unprincipled men, —
who either make no allowances for difficul
ties which weak minds never perceive ; —or j
j A from an excess of vanity or presumption,
[. suppose none can surmount them but them
io selves ; or, with views too base to beaVOW-''
ed', heiitate not to gratify malignant OY"gr6-
veling purposes of .their own, without "the '
ucf- Oighteit independent regard to the honor,";
>M. the interest, or even the fafety of thefr
country. Such cautes must often produce J
""" great agitation in any country, but inuft op
""" erate with increased and dangerous vigour
\ ere , in one like our own,' composed of many
powerful states, to a great degree indepen
rling dent on each other, having either real or im
timi a gi nar y differences of loeal ir.tereft, and with'
j cnts little other effectual cement to bind them to
wn- gether but a sense of' foreign external dan
■ de■ ger, which with respeCt to many will be apt
to operate but too weakly until it has in
rl jj crealed to a magnitude which astonish
es and confounds them.
( ConcluJtd in our next.)
■fires . .
"/.r This Day is Published,
I for ay Mtff- Dobfon, Carey, Cimpbcll, Rice, and
other BooKlcllcrt,
r an rice One Dollar ;.nd twcruy-fivecenri,
fpt- Elcgatit'y pruned on Wive paper, awl Hot
prejjed,
By John Ihrrr.pfcu,
A CCMf ARATIVE VIE'.V OF
«,« 1 he Ccmftitutions
Of the several States with ev.h other, and with
j. . that of the United States: exhibitVgjn 1 ables,
the prominent-features of tath ltirutiou r *and
claCing tuget'jer tbeir r.oft impertant provisions,
under the heads cf adminiftraticin ;
I*' Notes a«d Obfcrvations.
Ll7, B r WILLIAM SMITH,
■ * ' • Of South Caroline,
LL. D. and member »'f the Cflhjjrtfs Ms tJ>.c
United States.
Elicited to th« Ppople of th« United Snttt.
N. li. A few Copi,s printed cc an itferior pa
per. at 3-4th«cf idoHaj..
J February 6 * njwf
CONGRESS. '.I
HOUSE of REPltfSfiN «■
VVedutljJay, May
Mr. f[>?eei. C(s:it.««ed.
Have we reipeded in th,< .nfl.ppj. «'
cafe ; what were the fer.t mew| •: our pvede- rr
celTo's i, 1,33 , on tire :6th Aba!, year a
acoinrnitu-e v.as AppviiUtd, cMflftmif •
Rladifon, Mr. El I worth,, awl Mr. H™. , r
to rep** on the i'uhjta *e S f**
post, and atrfong >«& <**<?> [" r lts a '!"P' ''
■Ln hy the tat«-they fay "<r other mp,.ve, a
« than those of juttifc could be reqmOte on tltw
« iccarmn, no nation couia ever feci In *.get i
« for wben debts "are tube paid to an lU*
the 1 firlt i)iace, who to the exertions ofot,
•* arms in support of ot>r t.mle, has aiR-ea tne
.■"'fitcctn of his 1-eafvrf ; who,, to his tmpor
" tant loans, has donations ;
•t and wliofe loins tbemfelws carry the iwpre -
< 4 fioH oLhis magnanimity t!ttd fnc»dmf. In t
Deormher' of the fame year upon the reTigna- ;
ti&n'oi'Oeft. Walhington Congrets deel»«to
btm f*' yo'J have peifevercil till she Jnlteil (
WStatfs aided bv * mageanimotu Af'g "rid »«-
'« fatly have bien enabled under a just P'i'i
(" dcrifiC to olole the war in freedom, fa.ietjr .
! « and independence." —And is it now that ir
: rrtatcd by unworthy or odious bicVenngs we
ihail tike upon us to fly in the face of our hil- I
' tory—of our living and immortal history—and \
, attempt to tmfay all this; yes_! a produflio 4
to us lalt leUion from one 01 the
, departments-os our jjovernment, and publiftied
;o Arnerica anil all the world, treats all thele
foicmn records ai tilings founded on error and
t fali'chood, or cn hypocrisy ; in that very pub
j licaftoh we are told that the minir.tr of France
3 thrd' whom America received those signal bene
fits and ftipport, had dofee».ded to intrigue a
i againll thirfe very liUertiej upon the support of
which so much had been expended, and such
diftingnifhed measures carried into decilive ex
t ecution ; ws are taught there to believe, if folly
e itl'elf could be so credulous, that Franee inter.
0 fcred privately to prevtnt what file made such
,f effirtk to fee are !—And this isjhe language by
whicd France is to be persuaded of Our love of
j justice, cf hur love of virtue, of our infalibility,
of our regard for the dignity of our country
" whose fer.timent ar or.e and the fame with the
ir government ! " O ! sard Mr. Livingfton,—
1- " Let me not pass over unnoticed thai joy
d " which Iso well remember to have bearlsed on
_ " every countenance npon the inspiring tidings
" that France had joined her arm 3 to ours iu
f- « erased fienimy heart, in the gloomy horrors
d « ofdefolatiori and an aflafiiuatinf: war, 1 could
« read by the light of those flames which'con
le " famed my paternal minfion, by tht joy that
ft " sparkled in every eye, how great were the
• •' confeqaences of her union to America—l
'< feel the revival of that animating joy, kin
" died this moment iR my bofom —I will fore
it ver cherilh it in my heart of hearts—and I
" trust never part with it, till I shall part with
:y " every other sensation."
a- Yet after all sooner than facrifice oae right—
J one principle —or make one ut just conetiTion to
J France, he would sooner facrifice his life ; but
he would mil sooner behave like a truly dignifi
-5* ed ma:i and acknowledge an error if he flioujd
x " appear to have committed one, than support
li- the error with the utrnoll certainty of success.
ae France then may certainly complain without
he justly exciting that indignation at her prefump
-3n tion, which foioe gentlemen exprefs.fte is
charged with the eommiilion of various inju
lr" ries the difmifiioou of our rninifter —the
lte comßiiflum of depredations on our commerce—
th w ; t h a refuiing to treat Upon our disagreements
:c- —and an interference in our go vernment : upon
aft > the firft of these fubjcdls he felt a sense of iridig
he nity as much as ar; man, rife in his bre aft, lie
■ 0 - f c 't f° r the refp'dtaole person who had the pain
' , ful talk to encounter ; but he would not argue
largely on that fubjta at this time fiuce it m
:il». volved a confideratron of all the predisposing
causes of that <lif«iifiTon ; he would leave it to
ib- be the fubjedt of amicable explanation —for dif
igs ' guifj it how we would, if we hold the lan
iut i guagc of the Prcfiieilt, to war we must go; he
• ! would maintain what had been already dene in
! the way of Treaty ; but he would leave-it to
m " the House to determine between better lan-
VL " 1 gnjge and war ; our finfe of infallibility and
are j our conduit were like the two principles of the
fu- i Indian myth®logy— ever at war with each oth
ike er, and ruin wottld follow the obstinacy tliat
en . j refills all deliberationthe man who ffcould
! pretend to attempt a negociation at Paris after
'! such language Irom the Legifiature arid the Ex
; ccutive, fhVuld'bear the cap and bells to fare
lc " ' him from any other imputation than that ol
"es, j being a maniac I he could not expeil to nego
om ciate after tbem.
'm- | But gentlemen sfiefl to believe, for either
un- ! they must be very imperfcClly informed on til)
3ns:! fubjefl do they not earnestly believe, thatth<
! 1 ; latwinf a right: of what right, by what lav
"i of nations is the right eftabliflied thitone r.atior
~° r : can ififift.on keeping a miniiter in another eori
°"> trary to the will <sf that nation ; he defied ani
:m- , imri however learned and however gr#at,- ti
3W-'' point put the of any fu«h light : i
rtb- th'efrfo'reit is not a right, the denial to receivi
tht cannot be difyaffiocately tonfiderei
as in itfelf an irifult, although the circviirifta»
lo | C es attending it may be- attended with mark? c
lcfr the juofl iiupfeal'aiit dilrcfpafl ; yet eveiUher
ace « aippcaraneesare.no more than the nc.cefljrv eon
op- ltquences of iheimprcffionsmadß o» the Frencl
our government, from theconCderatien of our con
any dix A.in fht particulars before noticed,, and. of
>en- I'ght ill which they have, taken others
forriotwithftanding this marked expieflion e
'J 11 " their sentiments, if gentlemen will read th
" latter part of the miniller-'s they will find hir
t°- declare th« tentiraem.- of -the gover nrjicr t —"
lan- " pray you .to be persuaded, Citizen J»Simftei
apt " that this determination having Become aecel
j n . " fary," —that is aeceflary under tßeir impre
lifh- fioni ps oor eondoift towards them— - allow
" to fuhfill between the French Rtpublic an
<» the American people the affection founde
" ujioii former benefits and rec'rptocal intei
faidthey " will no: acknowledge nor reeeiv
the " another rninifter plenipotentiary from tl
" United Slates until after the l eilrel's of.tl
" grfevrnces demanded ofi|ir American gi
Hot' " vernment, and which the French goveri
" ment has a right to ciperfl froth it ;" an
from this ailiclc « hich precedes that which
haVe before-quoted, gentlemen conclude th
no ttiinifier whatever will be received till.w
have ci needed t<» them all they shall pleaiV 1
with : he would not trouble the committee b
jJkV, furHier expefing absurdities so visible, as. tl
,-and' fappofitiori of an extludon of every kind of mil
fions, ifter and nil negociation,' becatrfe they declai
with they will not receive a flenifptectiary m'ufijlt
unt.l those caufei.of compla:nt are removed
they, or how nan they "be putintl
way of explanation or removal but by * mini
t v c ter. Uporl the fubjea ofthe eornpUints then
' selves he had already exprefj'ed his opinioi
that many of fh£m were frivolous and othe
r p a . unfounded; it wai frivolous, for iuftance; i
our eyes, to complain of the arringeinent 1
wf t the r.itrxicf fht fcvenl P.:tcs ef Europe ir. ;
intercodrl's* eA <> ute P 1 - 1 # im:il t!,: * , "' i
of a Hi-.- kin-i are re.lUf-J. Hi it
would (>n!>* - l nsceCi'v lJ explain their a'afur
ditv vo them tflTeiiiniljr; but tae Freiren
Kc>)ui>ltc d.i -- n it go f.far as gentlemen app.-ir
towiih fli- Via J gone, (he dies not fay.-yau
rmift redrt-fs tmy tnmg w; complain of-but
all iho'4 wliiA Jh; bis a right to cxpslrt fron
tlie .laerican Republic; and is it net by dil
< uHioii ».i;l that the qutftion muli
1 be ilcfjtled what she lias and lias not J right to
demand redr'els of: —it' there is a poffib.i-tj ot
another ciniftruAion, and thu would lead to
war, wh'fh of them ought we to adopt !
[To be co/x'ud.-d in our Kf=i J
WEDNESDAY, MAY 31.
Mr. Fowler, from Kentucky, yesterday
appeared and took his feat in the House.
Th 6 House again refalved itfelf into a
Committee of the whole on the answer to
the President's Speech, and Mr. Dayton'a
amendment being under configuration,
Mr, Hartley was perftraded there was but
one wifli in the house with refpedl to peace,
notwithstanding inlinuationa to the contra
ry' ; but he could not agree with the prcpo
'fed amendment, is he wilhed the negocia-
Ition to be left wholly to the Preiident.—
The treaty entered into with France provi
ded for their being placed on the fame foot-
ing with other nations, and he wished that
right to be recognized by negociation, and
he doubted not the Preiident would do it;
for as he mult fee that peace was the dei:re j
of all, he would'take' such Heps as would be
bell calculated to lead to it. He was against
encroachments on the Preiident, as if they
I once begun, there was to knowing where
, ' they could Hop. He thought there Was no
! danger of war ; it would be a disagreeable
' thing for men who fought in the revolution
' ary var, to "be obliged to unfheath their
' swords against France*'", but he trusted, be
p fore they rcjfe, means would be taken, for
putting the country into a state of defence.
' Mr. Swanw-iek hoped the amendment
I would-be adopted. The objeftion3 again it
- it were of a curious nature. It was (irft
f ■ said, if France was put upon the fame foot
n ing with other nations, we rtiould have an
s equivalent ; they ought to pay for the fpo
u " liations committed on our. property. Again,
s it was observed, that to offer them thfs,
4' would be to put them in a worse (ituatiou
1- than before, and' that they would laugh at
it such' a' proposition. Mr. S. took a view of
e the advantages which France was said to en
' joy over other countries with respeCt to
bringing prizes into our ports, and (hewed
j that' they no longer existed. He took no
h tice of a fa£l related by Mr. W. Smith yes
terday, refpetSting a French prize being
- brought into Charleston, and denied that
0 there was any faAour done to the French in
i' the business, but the contrary. France, he
j said fuffered material injury from the British
rt treaty', and there needed be no apprehension
of their refilling to be put on the fame
ut ground with other nations. He reprobated
p- the idea of being denied the privilege of
IS giving an opinion to the Executive, and
| J ~ said there was no expression in the answer
_ which echoed to that in the speech with ref
its pest to a willingness to retract error which
31, the Senate had carefully reverberated. If
g- gentlemen were (incere in their wiihes for
he peace with France, he could not fee how
n " they could objeft to the amendment. Why
ue fay peace ought not to be made, except re
ng dress was received for spoliations ? He had
to himfelf fuffered very materially in tiiis res»
if- peel, as well as many of his cocftituentS)—
n- and he felt, of coUrse, as ardent a wilh
'■<- Ihoufd be paid for as other gentlemtn ; but
in he did not think it would be good policy to
go to war, if fatisfadlion was refufed. This
nd would be probably to risk the loss of a poiai4
he for the fake of gaining a penny. BefidtJ
th-. it might be, that when these claims came to
uat be fettled, France (like Britain with refpett
J ' c! to Virginia claims) might bring charges (•
f cr -gainst us, and not fettle the account. Be
>-as willing to leave that business to be fet
-01 tied by the Executive.'
go- • Mr. Craik observed, the gentleman laftvo
seemed perfeilly willing to entrust one bt-
Iw r finefs with the Executive, whilst he was 2- «
the fraid to trull him with another. With ret
the pect to the ground of gentlemen b'ein;
" c '~ changed, he wilhed it might not appear 8
. by. an agreement to this amendment, whici
orj was exadlly the fame in effedl as that whicl
lnv had been negatived. H<? expected the rao
■to ver would have (hewn whereiu it differet
: if from the former, when called upon to do si
live by the gentleman from Maflachufftts.
JMr. Dayton (the Speaker) said the
ber from Maflachufetts would bear him wit
- ness that he did anfwer'the enquiry.
on . Mr. Crafk - fad," if it were so, he hac
nch been mistaken; : He thought there was n»
on- difference between them. He wi(hed to re
j! ,1 pel the insinuation 'that the oppofere of the
( amendment v/ere eneifiies of peace, ansi ene
';)"c mies of France, -which was conlfantly in
filled upon-by gent! e cn' on the other fide.
1 He wiihed to fnew France the fate justice
ler, as other nations'; but he Vas not willing to
cef- 'insert the fentirhent in this nddret. Nor
' did he wiflv to go iata tbe enquiry bow far
they v/ere or were net. at prefect cn tlvj
fame footing. I He had the f .aae objs£iion
iter- against this amendment' thst he had again It
has the one brought forwartl by the geotleir.an
c-ive from Virginia, via. that 5t wai an uncobfti-.
the tutional interference with the Executivf,
l ' le and (hewed a want of confidence in thst
part of the government, v.!;ch wag at pu
,llf. sent peculiai-ly improper to be (hewn. This
c h ] consideration bad been treated very lightly,
that It was true that foreign politics had too
I.we much mixed in the political conduft of per.
r t(l - sons in this country ; and he believed the
'.'V diftinguilhing feature betu-ccn the two par
-1 '?■ ties was, that one wi(hed to grasp all power
in the Hcqfe of Representatives, and llie
I\ji er other to maintain the other branches iff
ed ; exercise of their.Cbr.ftitutional powers. He
1 the thought this amendment was calculated to
inif- promote the views of the former. The
f rm * fame design of extending that power, lpd
led them to decide the right to decide Ui(on
.; n treaties, and to break treaties. He-srfled
,t of whether the power they were aboubt to e*-
. al« ercife was a legiPatfre or an executive ftfl ?It it w;rc inU.idjd (a» duuhticfr it wai) to t plase.
jn3-.rjr.ce thi Ex:cu*iv.r, it was certainly of ty.in
the Utter kind, anJ tli-.-rcfore not t'.ieir b1- Franc
finef9. But it was fa:d the Executive wis tai l,
aujttous to receive this opinion ; lie found It
nothing of this fort in the speech of the pre- t<v> ff
fident, and he did not know upon what tlema
ground the affert'iv^could be made. It was ment
well known, Mr. C. said, that it wa3 infi- be of?
nuated in France tlrat the government and true,
the people of this country had different leagu
v.-uis; it therefore became them to ail in with
such a maimer as to repel the charge ; but that'
if they agreed to the prefept amendment, yet h
t]ie opinion would be strengthened. pon i
Mr. C. concluded by observing, that tho' fame
unanimity was very deferable upon a question was i
of this fort, yet it was above all things to j count
be avoided, if it were tp be at the proposed if thi
facrifice. The gentleman from Pc#mfylva- ough
1 nis> had called upon the Committee to con- asked
vince the French Nation that there was no Mr.
"British influence in thSt House, but he ho- said >
ped they should not Ihew them at the fame to th
time that there was no American mflu'ence. onal,
He trusted they should not shew to them nor t
- that they were all Frenchmen ; that they be th
were divided, from the Executive, and had coun
no confidence in it 5 that the President was T
tinder British influence, and that he could takei
not therefore be trusted. This indeed would ment
be re-echoing the calumnies which had been Prefi
rajfed against this country. he w
Mr. Dayton said the tedious length of ted i
the debate on the proposition from the gen- atior
tlefflan from Virginia, had determined him "
to have left his amendment to its fate, with- tori's
Out taking up the time of the Committee tack
- with any obfervatioas in.favour of it. .The quel
<ritici£ms which it had provoked fr° m the proc
gentleman from South Carolina, might, per- and
jiaps, have been deemed a fufficitnt apolo-. tone
gy for breaking this resolution, if it had i appl
not been suggested that a modification of that
some expralfions would render it more agree- Mr.
able to fonre members of the Committee, | of t
to which he had no pb}e£lion, as-they did mad
| net tend to change the fentiicent, They jhe v
■were, that instead of "as favorable as" to only
insert " fim-lar to those of," and after " with the ]
us," xhff words, "if an inequality fnall be acci
found to exist." _ , an<^
Mr. D. till ycfterday was of opinion, coui
that, however members differed about the " I
mode of doing it, that there were none who " n
did npt wish to place France upon the fame " o
footino- with other nations in respect to trea- " v
ties. °He thought the dispute had been a- " d
boat words and not about substance. He " c
hoped in the remarks he (hould make, he " 11
should be excufedfrom arraigning the French " t
Republic like a criminal at their bar, not " r
only with crimes comro'-tted against the in- , " t
terefts of the United States, but also with " {
those said to be committedagainft the differ- " f
ent nations of Europe, with whose political " ]
connexion we have nothing to do, and for " 1
which they would not certainly thank us ; I
to fay to them you have enslaved this coun- bee
try, and deceived into vassalage another, out
were not very pleasant afTertions ; and this the
to be said also of sovereign nations as inde- exp
pendent as we, at a time when the reprefen- a o
tativeS of those nations were accredited, and der
received amongst us $ and not only received He
' but permitted to fit within their walls, and arg
listen to their debates. i of
If the question were, into what balance j vei
of the powers of Europe we Ihould be cast, un
as a make weight, such observations might of
be pertinent ; but as he conceived the quef- fa)
tion related to the maintenance of the peace ful
of this country, he could not fee how luch fw
remarks could apply. He hoped he should no
not be accused of a want of spirit, if he did ad
not speak of war as a pastime—os conquer- wt
jng countries, as if it were only to overrun fei
them, to make them our own ; or if he did fa;
not talk of bucKling on our armour, and. of ou
DYING IN THE LAST DITCH. Tohimitjul
appeared better to express ourselves with a wi
becoming spirit of relentraent,without using w;
the rcige cf a madman. It was not necef- fp
fary to crouch to any nation. But he wish- w
j «d to aft as if we wished for peace, and not F
I to ftpnd in the position of Gladiators, ec
to found the trumpet of tl-tiar.ee. j II
He could fay that he felt the full force of , le
the indignity offered to this country in the P
diffmiffal of our minister. He did not hear F
i With coolness " you shall repeal -this a<ft, p
. you shall annul this decree, &c. before we fz
will have any. communication with you."— tl
When he heard this language, even from the n
Republic of France, he felt as an American, n
but he acknowledged a spirit of conciliation,
and a fcnfe of gratitude ( not yet extinguish- d
ed) led him at least to moderate, if not to tl
eKtingnifh this resentment. The reeollefti- d
on of benefits received, would lead him to p
fay to them : " Frenchmen, you were our p
fifft and best allies, when the country we n
called our Mother, endeavoured to reduce f
US to unconditional subjeCtion ; when every a
nation flirunk from us, you, People of France 1
(or, if gentlemen like it better, your mo-j 1
»A*ch) fupported'us > —you reached out t
a helping hand for our prote&ion, —You at t
that time entered into a treaty with<js ; if it
now operate hardly upon you, take it back ; t
what you. Kberally granted to ns in 1778, is !
restored to you in 1797, as it is, in youro- j
pinioß at least, a source of diiquietud* ; you ]
) Sail be admitted to all the favours of the 1
British treaty of 1794 ; neutral ffiips shall
not make neutral goods ; the lift jof contra- .
band articles and the provision article m
that treaty, (frail he yours, and inserted in
voornew code." But, in this, he
I would refill the construction put upon the
second article of the Trench treaty. And
he would not only grant these privileges to
the Ffeneh nation, but to any natioc in the
world, that the British treaty put upon an
unequal footing, and which, it not altered
or modified, would be the cau£c of war.
As little would he be disposed to agree
fft the couflruftion which had been pradi
cally put upon the provision article by Great
Britain. It had not been fully established
by writers on the law of nations that there
were any instances in which belligerent pow
ers could consider provisions as contraband,
except when going to a blocksdedorbefieged
' plase. Iloxev* dure would be no diffical- . &
ty.in the cafe, if the article were given to out »
France in the fame way as to Great Bri- on th
tain. ' j coumi
It might be proper to notice, Mr. Day- 1 'o t-e
t'vi said, the op,pofite obie&ions of the gen- expi t
tleman from South Carolina to the amend- M
i ment (Mr. Smith.) He said France would gentl
be offended at the proposal ;if that were "-he a
true, agreeable to the do£lrine of his col- tec,
league ( Mr. Harpei*} it would inspire them ' lo P c
1 with respect for us but he added also had'
[ that France would laugh at the proposal: wifliit
, yet he did not fee how thc*y could look u- natio
pon it with such different sensations at the icn
' fame time. He went on to fay that France felfti
I was already more highly favoured than other not
> j countries : but, before he fat down, he said Fro"
i• if this favour were granted to France she rlta:i
- ought, to allow an equivalent. Where, he mi&l
- asked, was the cohfiftericy of such assertions ? menc
a Mr. D. - then took notice of what had been
1- said with refpeel to the amendment dictating jcSi<
c to the Executive and its being upconftituti- loCft
:. onal, and shewed that it was neither one t ' me '
II nor the other, hut he trufled that it would f r ° !rl
y be the Harbinger of Peace between thf two l ' ] -'
d countries. .y 4
is The gentleman from Maffachufett-s had IO 0
d taken the liberty of faying, that the amend- m 'P c
d ment was. founded on a persuasion that the ! - tle '
n Pfefideat woitld lint do his duty, and that M
he was under British influence. He fubrait- held
>f ted it to the committee whether such obferv- by 1
1- ations deserved an answer.
n " Mr. Harper having noticed Mr. Day- ed o
1- ton's usual practice of making personal at- >»««.
:e tacks on members in'debate, and the fre- t,e
le quent instances of it with refpeft to himfelf, ' !as
le proceeded to mention the terms Madman vv
r- and Gladiator as instances. Mr. Day- c J le< -
a-, ton did not deny that these terms had been " cu '
id 1 applied to Mr. Harper. He only asked why ex P<
)f that gentleman should take them to himfelf ? P a '"'
e- Mr. Harper answered that the application cam
e, iof the "terms, though not direst, was so 11
id made as to be perfectly well understood, and ' u:£
:y jhe went on to observe that he had been not P cat
Lo only called a Gladiator and a Madman by
th i the gentleman from Jerfey,but had also been k- c
3e accufedof indecency in referring to Hoi- <>n 1
land and Spain while the minister* of those kmc
n, countries were present. "It is not said Mr. not
tie " Harper, among the least of that gentle- anxi
10 " man's inconsistencies that he should accuse '
ae " others of indecency at the very moment j f° r
:a- " when-he was committing it himfelf. But " c 1
a- " does he really imagine that the freedom 11 •
Je " of difcuflion in this house is to be tranl- beti
he " melled by the presence of Foreign minis- l!lcl
ch " ters ! Does he seriously suppose that the P arl
ot " mouths of members are to be ftopt, on l ' !c '
in- I " topics which they deem relevant and im- p'y
th " portant, because those gentlemen think '"g
sr- " fit to come and fit in the lobby ? If so °°"
:al " I can only pi£y his weakness and his ig- '
For " norance." [The above communicated.} me '
is ; Mr. N. Smith thought members had G, ' e
m- been more desirous of addrefling the people 1
er, i out of doors, than of confining themselves to * xC
his the fubjeft in debate. He infilled that to ' atl
de- express a hope that the President would do °' 1
en- a certain thing was to coerce him to it. He w *
ind denied the constitutional right to do this.— P a s
fed He charged gentlemen with founding their J lo '
md arguments on a warring in the departments "'g
jof Government; it was his opinion that go
r.ce j vernment could notgo on except there was an ' ,c -'
aft, union of design amongst the different parts ,ov
ght of it. One branch of the Gov. ought not to vva
jef- fay to the other, you have done wrong, but eo:
ace full faith should be given to each. The an- 1'
uch fwer to the speech of the President should
iuld not introduce any new matter, by way of 0,1
did advice, but respond only such sentiments as
ner- were addressed to them.He was against of- j '
■run fering the advice proposed, because it was j
did faying to France and the world, "we fear u l
Los our President will not do right, except we « £
nit direct him." It was said the President met l!l
h a ! with difficulty in his Negociations, which
sing was owing to the flanders which had been
:cef- spread in France, viz. that the Executive
irish- was all English, and the People all !h
not French. Oitthisaccount the French look- m
3RS, ed upon the Executive with a jealous eye. c *
Ifthe committee thought these things ground- ar
:e of j less they (hould assure the French, that the *
the President is less English, and they lees 1'
hear French than have been reprefentedby ex- 01
act, prefiing their confidence in him. But it was P 1
: we said they should give their ultimatum ; but
that if the amendment passed, he said, would ™
1 the not be the cafe, because the President would "
ican, make what ultimatum he judged proper. b(
tion, He had no doubt that the President would ti
iiifh- do ?11 that was wished by them to conciliate 1«
otto the French. He did not know but he would »
le£ti- do more ; nor was he certain it would not be t<
n to proper do more than had yet been contem- *
our plated. He did not know-but it would he
y we nectffary to deal with France at with Algiers; c
; duce such queftiom were question* of expediency, r
every and the ultimatum should be given with car?, tl
ranee It was difficult so fay what the designs of the n
mo- French were ; h« apprehended they wanted t
out to involve us by degrees in a war with her *
ou at enemy." e
;if it Mr. B'AV»WIN wifeed, since they mud re- I
jack ; turn an answer, that it should be done in the c
78, is least mifchievuus way. He believed the raa-
Duro- jority of the committee was in fav;>r of the t
I you principle of the amendment, and differed on- 1
f the ly about th? manner of expressing it. The :
; shall treaty of 17.78 had long been considered as I
ontra- .bearing hard upon the trench, and prepofi
:le m tipns had been made for relaxing it, but they
ted in ha»l heen refilfed by our Executive. This
is, he conduft the House were called upon to ap
n the pi ore ; but they chose rather, by means of
And the amendment, to far " you have done
ges to right hitherto, rather than hazard the
Tn the peace of the country, we wish France to be
pon an put upon the fame footing with other oa
alttred tiors
ir. Mr. SWall correfled the ftarement of
, agree the gentlemer. lalt up, by inlifling that our
prafti- Executive had entered into a ncßociati»n,
Great and done all in their power to form a new
blifhed treaty, and that it was entirely owing U) the
there French minifler that it »a» not completed
t pow- Mr. S. complained of the rcraaiks wl.ii h had
•aband, fallen from the fpcaktr. If gentlemrn were
efiegetl deemed in ordci by the h« did not
•
4- ft sH: j.tr.tfeMr. wJ3 ttttLon/ji, when V"
out oft'iat fitufltion,.tr> pass his certiures up- had
on them. Although the agents of toieign that
j countries were present, he f«id, th»y wutf m>t any
tto be preventtj 6j' this ciroumftance from J>o'<
expi'tflinj their sentiments freilv.
Mr. Brf.nt .was not futprifed that the
gentleman just fat di>wn was difpk'afed with
■ the amendment. He had told the commit- art j c
tec, on a, former oecafloii, thjt ht had no (j Ut
hopes of reconciliation ; he stated that we artic
had uolhisg to hope but from our 01*11 una- in a
uim/ty f «tid from the combination of foreign as u
nations with ns agiinft the aggrcffio:>s ot the P®"
French. He not therefore him o(
felf to that gentleman, but to thrfe who did
not entertain so dcfpicable an opinion of the | O A
French nation ;to those- who believe the ir- ton
rita:ii»n fublilling between the two countries , Ihi
might be put a flop to. To them he recom
mended the amendment s» a conciliatoiT mea
sure. lie thcH examined the different ob- t j lc
jeSions which had been urged against it; and ( ; on
infilled upon the right the House had at all y e t,
times to express their differenee of opinion low
from the other branches of government, since °bf(
the government was made up of checks. — Ll "
He also advocated the right that they had
to offer an opinion to. the Executive upon
important occasions, eipecially in a cafe in trea
the event of which war might be involved. rou:
Mr. W. Smith said the doflrine of checks met
held, as it refpe&ed laws, which were passed c^a
by the three branches of government ; Uut
hud nothing to do with business that belong-
ed only to one or two of the branches f " r g«n
instance, that House had no to aheck f ro i
. the President in duties which the eonftitution him
t has reposed in him. But the gentleman from beli
New-Jerfcy had iotruduced a new check—a wer
. check on the freedom of speech, when par- (
, ticular charafteis were present. He did not J j )e]
r expeA to have heard any such observation, |
? particularly from the quarter from wheuce it wa|
1 came. • anc
1 Mr. Dayton wiffted the gentleman to C0I)
1 state what he had f*id fairly. Mr. D. re- p rc
I peated.his expreffian. f OO
r Mr. W. Smith said members were not to
, be called to account for what fell from them g r{
on that floor, and he hoped a remark of that no|
; kind would never again be made. He was
_ j not at a loss to know the motive for all the wo
. I anxiety which appeared for the pafling of this j n j
e I amendment. The French had never alked g u
t : for what was proposed to be granted them ;
t he would undertake to fay they bad refufed me
n it. Mr. S. shewed by the correl'pondence j t
. | betwixt Mr. Randolph and Mr. Adet, that
•_ there had {been a perfefk willingness on the
e ' part of our executive tc ( make alterations in ~
n the existing treaty with that nation agreea
bly to their wilhes, and that it was n®t ow
k ing to any thing on oar part that it was not
o done.
: All that could be said for the present a-
mendment, was, that it was left lad than the
d one negatived, as there was not a single Word of
[ e in this which altered the sense from the other. Ft
0 He repeated the propriety of making a ftipu
-0 lation for the payment of our twelve millions C;
[0 of loss by spoliations, which if the Fttnch
[ e were not able to pay irt ni<wiey, they might ch
_ pay in (hips of war and frigates. He did
; r not with France to be put upon the fame foot
ts i"g with other countries, because they were
0 . ftipulationg in some of our treaties, which wl
jn he should not like to fee in a French treaty ; ft<
ts for inrtance, in our treaty with Sweden, there qi
to was an article which had produced great in he
ut convenience. He meant the embargo article, to
n _ There was an article also in the treaty with F
U Spain, whttfc, though it may not be injuri- S
0 f ous as it relates to that country, he should w
a3 be sorry to fee it inserted in a French treaty, hi
3 f. | By the t6th article of that treaty, the Spa- ai
, as ! niards were allowed to take great liberties w
ar | with our veffds : when their (hips of war, in
vve j want of provisions, meet any of our vessels,
tet ! they are allowed to take out of them such
: c h ueceffariesas they ftend in need of, for which
■en they give a receipt, to be paid by theii go- S
; ve vernment agents. This liberty he fiiould not
L L like to have given to French vessels, ffrat they S
5 k- might take provisions from our vessels, in
y e , exchange for a lit of paper. 1 here was also
nc l_ an article in our treaty with Algiers, the £
the 12th, which he would not have inserted in a
EES French treaty, viz. " that a citizen found f
ex . on board an American vessel, having no paff
was P urt > be considered as a lawful prize."
[j U t It was very extraordinnry that gentlemen t
lU ld were continually calling the Britilh Treaty a
uld bad one, and still they wtfhed the French to
be put upon the fame footing with Bri- 1
,'uld tifh. He would rather gi*e them an equiva
iate l ent " n f° me ot ber way. The gentleman j
, u ld from Pennfylrania had wiflied the committee
t be to rally round the ftandatd of peace (by :
em . which he meant the amendment before them.) 1
he This put him in mind of the story of a re
crs; cmiting ferjeant, who was beating up for
)C y', recruits when the prince of Wales was a lit
;are! tie boy, who feeing feme boys playing at
the marbles, in order to seduce them, fiid that
nted 'hey would have nothing- to do bat to play at
her marbles <with ike Prince. He doubted not
every member in that committee wiflted for
1 re . peace ; Lut he trusted they had too much
1 the discernment thus to be taken in.
raa- ' Mr. Gallatin said, one of the obferva
the tiors made by the gentleman last up, he could
| on- not a (Tent to ; he did not believe they were
The all desirous of peace ; for, if he mud express
d as his opinion, he did not believe that gentleman
pofi- tuijhed for peace. Mr. G. drew this coucle
they fion from the variety of coiitradiftory objec-
This tions which he had urged against the amend
ap- meat. To prove that our Executive wiflied
us of to have Remedied th« grievances complained
done Qf in the Britilh treaty ; he had read letters
i the which passed between the French minister and
to be the secretary of state, in July, 1795-1
1- aa- These letters were written before the Bri
tilh treaty was ratified by the President, and |
nt of therefore it was not poflible they could treat
it our upon the articles contained in that treaty,
atian, especially as the powers given to Mr. Adet
new were given to him before the liritifli treaty
x> the was known. The tranfafbon only (hewed,
e d therefore, that our Executive was well dis
h had posed, at a certain period, to enter into a new
1 were j commercial treaty witb Fiance, more rtcipro-
J not c»l than that of 1778. But tbe offer to treat
V»s made—witb whom ? with a who
had no pjwer to treat, and he had not heatd *-
that the Executive had sent over to France "j,"'
any perfoa empowered to treat with that h ~ yt
government. St.]
But it was uid tWs intendment was big with p r |«
danger, as it would give to Trance certain pro- ~r S|
visions granted in treaties, with other powers, ] nj .
which it is not dsfinbte (lie Ciould hive. A.i bre;
article in tie Swedilh treaty wil mentioned,
but gentldmca should recoiled! that this was an tr.ii'i
article cf reciprocity : we have the fame right f^ e£
in a Swedish port that Swedes have in ours; and
as we had .heard great complaints about e.nbar- a
goes upon our vefMs in Freneh ports, if an ?r- fori
tide of this fort was agreed upon, It won d be poV
of great advantsg* to tis. The next olijeQton'
able article wif one in the Spaniih treaty, al- f u f t
low<ng lhips of war m distress to take out provi- o en
'lions froi» our vtflels, on giving a receipt. "J-J,
I,This, Mr. G. said, was allowed by the law of had
nations, if there liad been no prorifmn ot the o hl
kindinthe the treaty, that,only provided the q ue
manner of paying for what was taken. As to : w j M
the treaty with Algiers he cimld fee no gonnec- u f 3 ,
tion between that and tbe treaties in question ; I oft
yet, even iii that treaty, free bottoms were al- ! a t ;
lowed to make free goods. Besides, Mr G. j a c ]
observed, this was to be sent to our Ex- ! Jug
ecutive, who knew very well what was meant , f ro ,
by the exprtflions used in the amendment. He ; m j
charged gentlemen with endeavouring to raise
the prejudice »f members with refpefl to the enc
treaty question, in order to get them to rally J a |,
round die standard of uppolition to the amend- n4 f
mer.t. He apologised for having so expressly t un
charged the gentleman from S. Carolina with pro
not wifhitig for ncaee, but did not mean tore- -3 t
trail the exprefiion. tea
Mr. W. Smith said, he wilhed to relieve the tis
gentleman from the uneafmefs he feentied to feel
from having made i'j direct a tharge agai.ifi
him; but he would tell him, that he did not
believe (though be bad said ft) that if the-French
were not fatisfied with the terms offered in this
amendment, he would be willing to go to war. on
And now he tho'tthe account sett cd between
them. _ ty
Mr. Coit said, that hiving brought for- •
ward a motion similar in its spirit to the one co ,
tinder coufideration, which had not been fe- joii
conded, and intending to vote sgainft the eri
present, it became necessary to give his rea- 6 '
foos. H« did not think it the fame thing. ;
The difference, it was true, was not very [o '
great, but it was so great as to induce him
not to give his v»te for it. It conlifted, we g a
believe, in this—in Mr. C's amendment, the Cr
words were "on grounds as favorable," and thi
in Mr. Dayton's, "on grounds similar to." Fe
But he thought the expreflion ambiguous.
The question, on Mr. Dayton's amend
ment, was put and carried, there beinjj for
it 52, against it 47.
The committee rose, and had leave to fit T
again. Adjoui»ed. H
—— b«
Xty&wttt. s
PHILADELPHIA, «
THURSDAY EVENING, JUNE 1, 1797.
The persons nominated by the President p,
of the United States, as Envoys to the T
French Republic, are 1,1
Gen. Charles C. PiNCKN£Y,of South
Carolina, "
Francis Dana, Chief Justice of Mafla-
chufetts. And n
Gen. John Marshall, of Virginia. t l
The apologists in a certain Assembly, ci
while' they hunt up every poflible circum- P
stance and resort to a thousand contemptible "
: quibbles to juftify theconduft of France and
her outrageous piracies, have the audacity
to fay that there is no such thing existing as p
1 French Influence. They remind us of -
. Sir Fretful Plagiary, in the Critic,
1 who gets into a violent paflion to convince
his hearers that he is in a very good humor, r
. and not at all ruffled by the criticisms on his
s works. *■
GAZETTE MARINE LIST. [J
1 PokT of Philadelphia. v
h ARRIVED. # e
Schooner Weymouth, Guthrie, Nor
lt folk, 4 1
y Sloop Driver, Paddock, N. York, 1 1
n Sally, Johnson, Baltimore, 10
0 cleared.
Ie Schr. Triton, Howard, St. Thomas,
a Harriet, Sweetfer, ditto
d Sloop Jane, Brown, Baltimore,
r. A ship is below, name unknown.
The vessels arrived last evening came into •
in the capes on Monday, and saw nothing of
a The Pandour.
to Commodore Barney's two frigates were
i. lying at Crany Island on Saturday last.
a- The Resolution of 74, and Assistance of 50
in guns, were at anchor without the capes of
ee Virginia, and the Andromeda, l'Efperance,
jy and Lynx, lay i" Hampton roads the fame
•) day
,£ NEW-YOP.X, MAY 31.
or ARRIVED. DAYS
i t . Ship Neptune, Miller, Calcutta, 193
at Capt. Chace from New York, bound to
iat St. Thomas' was spoke May 12, lat. 32,
at long. 69, fix days out—Ship Sylvanus from
ot New York for Bristol, was spoke May 10 ;
: or Skinner. King, Poll, Sands, and Heferan
cb of New York spoke by Capt. Holland, ar.
rived at Boston vrom Bourdeaux.
ta _ Norfolk, May 23.
arrived. days.
crc Ship Rebecca, Corran, Londqn 48
cfß St. Andrew's Society.
AT a quarterly meeting of the St. Andrew's
Society, l.eld at the Golden Swan, last evening,
cc " the following gentlemen were unanimously elt-Aed
id- mrmbers thereof :
led Lorjt Henry Stewart,
led The Honorable Thomas M'DonaJd,
en Mr. William Alexander,
ind Capt. Duncan Rose,
Mr. James Thorlur,
3ri- Mr. fames Stuart, jun.
and Mr. Willi am Gardner,
rest Mr. Samuel CampLeU, of N. T.
jty, The treifurrr, Mr. Shields, preßin«J to th»
,j c t meeting tlic statement of the fu*rt» of the society ;
„ whereupon, it was
J Refclved, that he be requffted to continue his
' e d, f» rennoUi exertions to colieft in the arrears due to
dif- the ] ©or itinJ, and to tnakt re} ort ot his success
new thereiu at the next qusrttriy meeting.
pro- Richard Lake, Secretary.
re»t J""® I-
feOSTON, May 16.
On Friday evening, came to town by the
way of Kr» York, captain APritT3*, cfihe
fchocner Cynthia of this port, l.tfc'.y capture!
by the Frtrich, carried into, ar>d conrfemnedat
St. Martins. Cn failing m vfhh f ' ie pandering
pritratecr, three or sou-os tier expert freeboot
ers, were fmt on brfard who, without enquir
ing the defttnr.fion «f the vessel, proceeded to
break o;;en the chefta in rhe cabin, fclzin£,
with an ir.fcrail voraciotifiicfs, upon every
ti.ing valuable. Capt. A. baggers them to re
fyeil proprrty ti'l the vciTel had been fairly
adjudged a prize, ohferving, that l>y the con
duit they were then using, they rifqutd the
forfeiture of those kravy bonds, which hovtfi
governments always e/.afled, before
lioii'fig privateers: But Phiroah's heart was ;»
fuft as fprlng snow tothe hearts of these Marau
ders. They proceeded with their pillaging.
The whole nf the time which tlie prixe inafte; -
had pofieffion of the vtfTel at RV, captain A. was
obliged to lodge M»on deck, expufed to tre
(juent rains and disagreeable varying winds.anA
wl.en a murmur tfcaped his lips at this brutal
usage, h< fuflirtd under the 1C" ardly Mows
ot these power proud pirates. After arriiinj
at St. Martins, he was driven in lhoie without
a change of clothing, cr any means of procur
ing luftenaiice : Ilis application for some relief
from his property was treated with the molt
imperious info'ence ; oaths and threats ofifc
faflination were the mildell tieatment he expeti
enccd. The veffel'6 papers were sent to
daloupe,and in a few days an order of condem*
[ nation was returned j without the least oppor
tunity being alT.iriled capt.' A. for defending his
property, or knowingtiie form'of trhil. It 11
1 ra the humanity of capt. pquseiit of Marble-.
fceaJj that capt. A. was enabled again to reach
his native country.
THE trwLLOw INO V.iLUrtHLi.
Traits of tiaod,
IN the cous.ty of Glynn and state of Georgia,
will be fold by public file, at eight o'clock
on the evening of Tsefilay the 17th day ot June
next, at the Merchants Coffee-Houfe in this ci
ty, unless previoully disposed of by private sale.
ift. 7000 acres on St. Simons Sound at the
confluence of Frca.:rica and Turtle rivers, ad
joining the commons of the town of Brunfwkk,
originally granted to John Howell, and within
6 miles of the Atlaotie ocean.
id. 15,000 acres on the head waters of a
branch of the great Sattilla, originally granted
to Ferdinand O'Neal.
3d. 50,000 acres on the wafers of the littl*
Satilla river, and of Buffaloe and Alexanders
Creeks ; the great Satilla road pafles through
these laads, which were originally granted to
Ferdinand O'Neal.
4th. 50,000 acres on the great Satilla river,
which are also interfered by a branch of the
little~Satilla, and were originally granted t®
Thomas Spalding.
It appears by authentic certificates from
Thomas Davis, surveyor, and from Major
Hopkins now residing in Philadelphia, that the
bady of these lands are not thirty miles from
the ocean, and principally within tide water;
that the AJatamaha is navigable for boats and
rafts two hundred miles above, and for large
veflels within ten, miles of them ; that they are
chiefly firft rate pine lands, producing timber
equal in quality to any in the state of Georgia,
poflefiing the fame advantages of navigation.
The abovemeationttl certificates, together with
the patents, drafts, and other papers refpefting
, the title, which is complete and unincumbered,
are in the pofltffion of the subscribers and may
be seen by applying to Benjamin K. Morgan, at
No. 5, South 4th Street. The terms of pay
ment will be one third calh, the remaining two
thirds in good negotiable endors'd notes, paya
ble in three and fix months after the sale; a
, conveyance to be made to each purchaser on the
. payment of that moiety of the notes teceived
, from him which becomes iirft due.
J THOMAS FITZIMONS,
1 JEREMIAH PARKER,
BENJAMIN R. MSRGAN.
s Philadelphia, May 31, 1797. eodtf.
NOTICE.
e
» ' I 'HE fnbfcsiber having sent by thelhip Nancy,
S L Capt. Perry, rhe following certificates of the
United States bank flock, to wit:
No. 36,01:5, to 26,014, incluQve, for three
(hares each—and the said vefiel having been cap
tured on her intended voyage to England, whreh
will most probably occafior the loss of the laid
certificates, gives this public notice,
That he fhsll apply at the proper offices for a re
* newal of them; and that means have been taken
j to prevent any improper transfer.
0 Henry Philips,
No. in, South Frort-ftreet.
June 1. 3aw6w
To be disposed of,
The time of a black Woman,
to IT 7"HO has five years and eight months to ferva
of V? —She is lately from the cruntry,is healthy
and strong, a good washer and ironer, and capa
re bleof dting aJI the work of a large family. The
present proprietor's motive for par ing with hsr,
is such a§ eannotT>e deemed an obje&ion by those
peifons who may wifli to purchMe her. Enquire
of at the office of the Gazette of the United States,
e, No. 119, Chcinut-ftreet.
ne J alul - dtf
Lailson's Circus,
rs
23 South Fifth-Street,
to '
2, The Performances at the NEW CIRCU3
,m THIS EVENING, June 1,
, • Will begin by a Grand Parade of Equeflmn
, ai ' Performers of both fcxes.
a ' A grand display of Horfemanfliip,
Bv MelTn. M'Donald, Hcrrran, C. V«ndcve de,
Nicholas Corre, M'Donald, the Clown, and Lail
f>a. # 4 t
Still Vaulting by Mr. Lailfon, in which
" he will execnte fcveral difficult exercifcs,
* t which have never been attempted but by
w 9 himfeir.
if; Mr. Sully, in the charafler of Clown, will
perform a variety of Comic Feats.
Mr. Lai lson will perform several curious and af
toniHiiiig exerrifes, which he will not undertake to
? 9 cnumerßte, in order to surprize ihefpr£btor; hit
aim being to plcafe : —and nothing (hall be ncglfitcd
to render the cxercifea worthy the atteutioa ot the a
mafuri cf this new art.
Bucephalus will leap over a table of a very
great hiight and also through a large hoglhead,
with his rider on hi* bfcek.
Mils Van ice will perform several aflonifhing
th 4 fe.it» \>liich has never been attempted but by her-
Cty ; At tho request of a number of refpeAable stran
gers, will be pyufented for the last time, a grand
i „ l / o hiftcrical pantomime In three called The
xefs American Heroine.
The doers will lie opened at half past five
try. o'clock, and the performance* begin preciftljr
at I'evtn.Important Public Document.
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
And for Sal?
At the Office of the Ed .tor ofthe Cazetß of the
United States,
No. 119 Chefnut-Strcet,
IPftICE ONE FOLLAR AND FIFTY CENTS] j
A FEW COPIES OF THE ,
Receipts and Expenditures j
OF 'THE UNITED STATES,
Forthe Year 1795,
B-jT'.j the I.atkst Period to whith an account
can be mode up.
February 4a. $•
A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRST & ad sro'of,
Gin, of 4th proof, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds
Old Hock, in cases of 40 dozen each
Glass Tumblers, in pints and haif-pints
Window Glass, in boxes, ef different lizes
Hazlenuts, in farks
Whiting
Copperas ( hM ,
■White Lead V
It Spanish Brown j
For Sale by
PETE'S. BLIGHT.
January 4
Dottor Perkins
XNFORMS the citizens of Philadelphia, that he
taken lodgings for a few days at the sign of
tiie Indian Queen, south Fonrth-ftreet. He will
lie happy te wait on those who wilh to fatisfy
thcmfelves of the efficacy ef his '
Patent Metallic Points;
And will operate gratis for the relief of the poor
at his lodgings, where he has for sale the intlru
mentt, with the nectffxry inftruflioiis for using
them.
May 29.
Just Received,
From Batavia (via Providence)
17c Sacks of Java Coffee of firft quality
sco half Tacks do. do.
a few Boxes of Spices, consisting of
Nutmegs, Cloves and Mace
For lale by
KILLINGS tf FRANCIS,
Penn«ftr eet.
May 3© dtf
For sale, or to be let,
Jl tfew three fory brick house.
AT the Merchants' Cosset-house, on Friday
' next, the id of June, at 8 o'clock in the
evening, will he iold by public vendu", a genteel
thfee flo ry house. It is pleasantly situated on the
south fide of Arch-ftrect, the fourth house above
lourth-ftreet. It may be viewed any time before
the sale. Terms are one fourth in approved notes
at 60 days, and the remainder in seven years on
feeurity aud interest annually. If not fold it will
he put up to he let 011 a lease of seven years. Im
mediate poffiffion may fee given. Further parti
culars wijl.be made known at the time of sale, by
Richard Footman Co.
Au&'ioniers.
May 29.
Advertisement.
To le fold ut private sale,
ALSXELy strong bay HORSE, 5 T« r »
old, fit for the saddle. Also, a likely full
blooded MARE, 4 years old, runs well, and is
now fit for the path—hey are lately from Vir
ginia, and may be seen at the fiab'es of Jatnss
M'Cawley, No. 45 Cherry alley. Any per
son defirousto buy either or both, must apply
to the owner, at Mr. Valley's corner cf Cherry
alley and Foufth-ftreet.
May 22. 3'
Lancaster, Harrijburgh, Carlijle,
Shipbenfburg and Sunbary
STAGES.
THE public are requtfted to take notiee, that
the partnerDiip which has fur sometime sub
sisted betwean Mathias Slough of Lancaster, aud
William Geer, is now dilTolvcd. but, not as M.
Slough infihaatesto the public without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fu!>-
je£t from M. Slough to W. Gecr, dated the 29th
December last. a recital of which is not now deem
ed neceCTary. Auy gentleman who wishes to be
rr.ofc circumdantially informed of the merits of
this business, by applying to W. Gcer may have
the perusal ef M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not \V.
Geer is not perfeflly juftifiabte in attaching him
felf to any other pcrfon in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
public were pleased to confer on the firfk effort in
this business, William <£eer, in conjunction with
Meflrs, Reily, Weed and Wi'mcr, is determined
to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention and elifpatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can polfibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
•with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
render the passage fife and commodious, inform
thof« wno wish to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George Weed's, the sign of the WJiite Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg,
Carlisle and Shippenfburg. The fare as hitherto
cftablifced.
For the fi'rther accommodation ol the public,
9. Stage will.start every Wedtiefday from the honfe
«f Samuel Elder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
and return from thence and arrive at Harrifburg
every Saturday, so that passengers destined for
Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed cm Mon
<lavs,
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster. Jan. 27, 1797-
N. B. This Line ef Stages ft arts ' from" the
house of William Ferroc, in Lancaster, on every
Ttiefday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
ceeding to the westward; and from the house of
nr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg every Wodnef
day morning, oh the fame evoning arrive* at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns
from thence on every Thursday : performing the
fame routine daily as in its tour from Philadel
phia. mwf
GOLD AND SILVER
bullion.
THE highrft price in ready money wffl be gi
ven for gold or silver bullion, olcl gold or
silver, Or gold u<ift, at No. 29, North Seventh
flrett.
April 20 2aw«w
A FEW BOXES OF
Bologna Sausages,
Of a superior quality, to be bold at No.
199, South FlOlltrvUKtt
-ftprilso, c°tf
Advertisement.
PURSUANT ta an Order from the Orphans* Co:rt.
'will be fold at PUBLIC SAL E, at Cranberry, on
Wednesday ,'tbe 14th day of 'June next, all that valuable
REAL ESTATE, late belonging to the Rev. Gilbert
T. Snowden, deceased, lyi'kg in and r.-sr Cranberry, in
the cou.ity of Middlesex, torunjbip of South Bruftfwitk,
P. ate of Nciv Jersey, upon the lower ft age road leading
from Philadelphia to New Tori. A very elegant frame
\ house in a beautiful and healthy fitvation, pair, ted white,
j with Venetian window flutters, thirty feit front and
thirty eight feet detp, two rooms with a har.dfcme ball or
entry on the frf floor, three rooms on the fecund floor and
two well-fnifbcdgarrets. In the rear of the house is an
excellent two-Jlory building conftlin% tf a dining-room f r
work f>eople, spacious pantries and a large liUben, with
every convenience, and over theft are three chambers for
servants. To the right is an additional building conftfling
of fTchamber below and a library above—under the whole
are very fne cellars paved ivilb brict. The house js en
tirely new and fniJhcJ with tajfe. Avery room is hung
with bells thai lead both to the kitchen and the fervunts'
apartments : there is a pump in the yard; ar.d a flone
and brick pavement* round the houfe, which is enclos
ed with a handsome railing, with three gates in front.
The farm conftfls of one hundred and flxty seven acres,
with a proportion of woodland and meadow, under excel
lent fence ; a garden with pale fence ; a large barn, fa
bles, carriage-i ottfe, con—knifes, life, all new, built
in the befl manner : with a young■ orchard of IQO grafted
trees. Nearly adjoining said farm is a lot of Woodland
of the best quality , containing 37 acres. Also a trail of
land within seven miles of Cranberry, containing one hun
dred and fifty acres, three-fourths meadow and the red ex
cellent timber. 1 his will be fold in lots or together, as
will bejl suit the purchasers.
The payments, one third cafh—onc third in one year—
and the remaining third, one year following, with inter eh
on the two lafl payments, and approved feeurity.
Far further particulars enquire of Nathaniel Hunt,
Efq, or Dr. Ralph Lott, Cranberry ; of Isaac Snowden,
at Princeton ; or of Isaac Snowden,
Second flreet, Philadelphia.
May 15 §6 mwftS
Now Landing,
At Pratfj wharf,
FROM on board the lhip Thomas Chalkley,
Cipt.Rafer, from Bourdeaux,
CLARET in calks
Ditto in cases
White Wine Vinegar
Red Skins in boxes
For Sale by
Run die tsf Leech.
May 15
Millinery Room,
No. 136 Market-street.
MISS CHRTSTAL
TAKES an early opportunity of acquainting
Uer Friends that (he has received by the
William Penn, a variety of NEW MIL
LINERY, &c. which fhc hopes to be able to
fliew thftn in a few days.
May 18 s3°t
Printed Calicoes.
JOHNMILLER, Jun. & Co.
No. 8 Cbefmrt-Street,
Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly assorted, very low on
short credit.
March 6. §
Poll-Office, 23d May, 1797.
THE Mail for Baltimore will be closed at this of
fice every morning (Sundays excepted) at half past 7
1 o'clock.
[ The Mail for Boflon will be closed every day
5 (Sundays excepted) at 12 o'clock noon ; and
The Mail for Frederica» Milford,Clowes, Da<*fbo
rough, Delaware, Horntown, Accomack Court-House
and Northampton Court-House, Virginia, will be
closed every Monday morning at half past 7 o'clock.
May 23. *iat
jßichard Bayley SgP Co.
Late John Whitesides & Co.
1 No. 136 Marlet-jlrett,
HAVE received per the ships William Penn and
Star from London, a large and fafliionable as*
fortment of the following articles : viz.
t < Chintzes, and printed Cottons, of the newest
" patterns
i Furniture Dimities and Chintzes
Ginghams, plain and figured,
5 Muslins, printed and embroiderM
Do. tai.t';our'd, plain, check and ftrip'd
1 Do. tamboured, of a very superior quality
Fine Book, Jaconet and Decca Handkerchiefs
- Dimities and muflinets
f Damaflc table-linen, in setts and in the piece
' Diaper ditto in Cloths and in ditto
- Holland and Ruflia Sheetings
Loop'd Hollands and Irish Linens
Long Lawns and Cambrics
- Sattins and Silks, plain and figured
Ribbons and Gloves
Crapes and Gauzes
- Straw, Chip, and Paper Hats and Bonnets, new
1 fliapes
Fancy trimmings, &c.
1 With a variety of articles in the Linen-Drap<ry
- and Haberdafkery line.
May 2% -§*ot
I Just Arrived,
1 In the schooner Dove, Captain Paul, from St
s Thomas, and for sale by the fubferiber.
t Muscovado Sugar in hhds- tierces and barrels.
, St. Croix Rum in hhds.
f And Laguira hides.
ALSO ON HAND,
3 Imperial, Hyson, and Sherry and Malaga
Hyson Skin Teai. Wines.
> Yellow Nankeens. Holland Gin in pipes.
e Canton Cloth. Do. Cheese.
" Lutellrings. Do. Glass ware.
' Silk Hankerehiefs. China Ware.
? Sewing Silk. Window Blinds.
r Cotton in bales. RheuVirb.
Peruvian Bark. Quickfilvtr, &c.
JOSEPH SIMS.
Mr.y nd. dl4t.
Received by the Indoftan,
From Madras,
f APMALL invoice confiding of the following
. jLx. Coast Goods, viz.
Blue Cloths
s Long Cloths, 14 punjumi
e Do. do. firie
Madrafs Handkerchiefs, and
Book Muflius
WILLING tf FRANCIS.
Martb 17. 3aw,
To.be Sold,
A large and tonvenient
Three Story Brick House;
_ OITU >TE at the north-east corner of Arch and
O Fourth-street*. It contains eighteen rooms—
and is in every refpe& well finiihed. For particu
lars enquire of
M. Keppele,
No. 138, Chefnut-ftreet.
May 31. }
Imported in the J7:ip P
And for iale by John Morton, No. 116, South
Fiont-ftrcet,
Hyson }
Hyson Skin C TEA S
Young Hyson (
Imperial J
Apr!! 20. eotf
To be Sold,
7he time of a Negro Man,
WHO has about fix years and an half to
serve. He is honoli and sober, a toler
able waiter, and uadcrftands driving a carriage.
For terms apply at No. 113, Souih Thiid
Street.
May 15. ec<»6t-
All persons who have any demands
Againlt the estate of John Finlay, deceased,
are requested to exhibit their accounts proper
ly atteltcd on or before the 20th of May next —
and thofc who are indebted to laid estate are re
quested to make immediate payment 10 eilhar of
the Subfcnbers.
ROBERT HENDERSON, > , , • ;/7 _,„ rt
JOHN M'CARA, $ Admimflrators
April 26.
Translations.
MEMORIAL?, advertisements, epiftclary,
and Jother writings in French and En
glilb, undertaken by Samuel Chandler, A. K-.
translator of Le Moniteur, L'Obfervateur, Les
Quatre Fils Aymons, L'Heroine Ameiicain,
and many other French authors.
S. C. has beefl in the habit of compiling for
the most approved publications, & occafienallv
attending where the hurry of bufmels may re
quire his immediate attendance. 1
Enc«'jr»ged and aflifted by gentlemen of
abilities, he proposes publifiing by lubfcrip
tion, a work in French and Er.glilh, by the
title of The American Speßator. The profpeil
us may be fee» at his lodgings, No. 67, Arch-
Jireet.
April ij■ t
Benjamin & Jacob John/on,
No. 147 Market Street, Philadelphia,
HAVE just received by the Connecticut and other
late arrivals Irora Liverpool, a general ailort
ment ot well cholen
Dry Goods,
For the ensuing Sea fori, for sale on the lowest terms
tor cash or the common credit.
A large collection of Books at their usually mo
derate prices*
4th month, 25th, s 797* twJcf4
To be fold at Public Vendue,
To the highest bidder, at the house of Mr.
William Evans, the sign of the Indian
Queen, in the city of Baltimore, on the 25 th
day of Odtober next, at ji o'clock, A. M.
About seven thousand acres of land,
the property of Williar* Bell, of Philadelphia,
lying between Reifter's-town and Wellminfter,
commonly called Little Winchester, (the turn
pike l oad runs through a cenfiderabie partjof
these lands) the tracl begins about 17 miles
from Baltimore, within a few hundred yards
of said Reifter's-town, and extends to the dis
tance of abeut twenty-three miles from Balti
more, and li®» on the main falls of Patapfico
river, from three to four miles thereon. Will
be fold in trails of one hundred and fifty to
three hundred acre. There is a large propor
tion of meadow and wood land on each traift,
some of them highly improved, with excellent
buildings and line grtfs.
ALSO,
A trad of seven hundred acres of
land, called Clover Firms, within five miles of
Bladenlhurg, elleemed very good for Grass.
Richard Ponfonby,of Bladenlburgh, will (hew
this land to any person inclined to pur.chafe.
ALSO,
A tra& of land of about three hun
dred and thirty acres, within about two miles
and a half of the President's house in the Fede
ral City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fine
high profpefl, from which may be fcen the
city of Walhington, Bladenfburgh, Alexandria
and a part of George-town, and many miles
down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard Por.fon
by, of Bladenlhurg, will alfe Ihew this land.
A liberal credit will be given for the greatt-ft
part of the purchase money. Jhe terms will
be made known on the day of sale.
May 8 W3«n
Georgetown Bridge Company.
Extrail of an ail passed by the Legillature of
the state of Maryland on the 29th December,
1791, entitled, " A« ail for ereiling a bridge
over Potowmac river.
'• And be it enafted, that the said diredlors or
any two of them lhall and may require any sum
or sums of money in equal proportion from each
and every proprietor, as may from time to time
be necessary for carrying on the building of said
bridge; and after giving three months public
notice, it lhall and may be lawful for the diieft
ors tt> sue for and r*cover in the name of the
compai*fuch unpaid requisition, with all costs
and charges incidental thereto, and legal interest
thereon from tha time the fame should have
been paid: And the negleit or refufal to pay any
such requisition after public notice lhall have
been given at least for three mouths in all the
newfpapersherein before enumerated, fliall have
the effeil to forfeit all preceding payments made
on the lhare or lhares so neglefted or retufed to
be paid t9 the ufc and benefit of the company."
The above extrafl is publiflied for the infor
mation of such of the ftoskholders as have not
complied with the requisitions heretofore made
—they are as follow : On the ill November,
1795, 20 dollars, on the 10th May, 1796, 40
dollars; an the jothjulv, 1796, 40 dollars ; on
the ill September, 1796, 40 dollars, and on the
ill November, 1796, 60 dollars. Caution is
now given that after the expiration of the time
limited for the continuance as this advertise
ment (three months) the law will be carried
into rigid and complete effedt against all delin
quents.
By order of the Direilors,
WALTER SMITH, Treasurer.
Georgetown, May 1, 1797. iaw3m
Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64, South Seeond-ftreet.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. a, for sale
—This Lottery will pofttively commence
drawing the 29th d*iy of May n«xt—Checkbooks
for registering and examination in this, the City
of Washington, No. », and Paterfon Lotteries,
now drawing, are kept-—also information where
Tickets in Walhington, No. a, and Patterfon may
be had—Tickets iit the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery
for sale at ten dollars each, and as soon as iiTued,
j Ticketsin all the other Lotteries authorized by the
Legislature of this state will be for sale.
The lukferiber solicits the application of the pub*
lie and his friends who wifli to fell bank stock, cer
tificates, bills of exchange or notes, houfea, land,
&c.orto obtain money on deposit of property.
WILLIAM BLACKBURN.
April $. saw
T E A S.
A TEW thefts Imperial, liyfon Skin and (
Souchong Teas of a fuperirir quality for (
fate at the (lore of -the l'ubicriiier, the north
west corner of Market and 1 iurd-lUects.
Patent Shot. .
ALSO,
A large CELLAR to be Wt at .1 very low rent.
Enquire as above of RICHARD WIS FAR. ,
April 29. ltu&rhim
—■ 1 ; I
For Sale, i
That "wellknownplace, called Vjndhgrift's 1
nut, _ '
ON Nefhaminy creek, i 3 miles from Phi
ladelphia, on the New York poll roaxl, '
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
! premises are a large two lt»iy stone hou:e occu
pied as a tavern, and a good one story stone kit
chen, a Urge frame liable with a good thrclhing
floor, and some out buddings —alio a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
this place is a molt elegant situation for a gentle- •
man's feat, commanding a view of the Nefliam
iny to its jun&ion wiih the DekwarS, and thence
across to rh« Jersey (hore. It has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the Sabfsriber,
MORDECAI LEWIS,
yay 24. 3tawtf.
TO BE SOLD,
And poffeflion.givsn immediately,
A Lot of Land;
SITUATED .in Mount-Holly, in the county
of Burlington., in New-Jersey, lately occu
pied by Francis Bullus, Esquire, upon which ars
an excellent brick house, two ftsries high, with
four convenient rooms on each floor, also a good
stable, carriagehouft aniJ other buildings. The
situation is valuable forbufmefs of any kind, and
at least equal to any other in the town.
The terms of payment will be made easy to
the purchaser. Apply to William Roffell, Esq.
uire, Joha Perry, or Richard Coxe, merchants,
hi Mount-Holly, or to the Suhferiber, in the city
of Burlington.
JOSEPH M-ILVAINE.
Burlington, 17th April May s—s3W5 —$3W
Chocolate and Milliard
Manufactured as usual,
Ginger and Fepper ground
Shelled or Pearl Barley
Bhilaoelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder
London Porter
Taunton and Button Ale
Red Port and other Wines, eithe bottled,
or by the pipe, quarter-calk or gallon—suitable
for exportation or home consumption
For Sale by
John Haworth.
N0.98 south Front street.
May 18 OI4W
City of Washington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificent dwelling-house 10,000 dollars,
& caih 30,000, are 50,000
1 ditto 15,000 & caih 35,000 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 & ca(h 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,006 & caih 10,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & caih 5,000 to,ooo
I ditto 5,000 Jk caih 5,60# 10,000
1 caih prize of ro,ooo
a do. 5,000 each, are • 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,000
»o do. 500 - - 10,©00
00 do. 100 - - x O,OOO
aoo do. 50 - - io,oeo
400 do. 25 - - 10,000
1,000 do. is - ao,ooo
15,00® do. «o - 150,000
16,739 Prizes.
33,161 Blanks.
5c,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. Tofavour thofewho miy take a quan
tity of Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the x> a9t drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but one :
And approved notes, securing payment in either
inoiH'y or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received sot any number not less than 30 tick
ets.
This Lettery will afford an elegant specimen of
the private buildings to be eredle J in the City of
Walhington—Two beautiful designs are already
leleited for the entire fronts on two of the public
squares; from these drawings it ispropofed to ereil
two centreand f our corner buildipgs,as soon aspof
lible after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurtrs, in
the mannerdefcribed in the scheme for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduflion of five per cent, will
be made to defray the necessary expenses of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National Univerlity, to
be creeled within the city of Walhington.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the
Prizes, are held by the President and two Direct
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount of the lottery.
SAMUEL UJ.ODGET.
Tickets may be had at the Bank ot Colum
bia of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter
Gilman, Boston ; of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
and of Richard Wrlfo, Cooper's Ferry.
Y' mwf
, For Sale,
At the Office of the Gazette of the United
Slates, No. 119, Chelnul-flreet,
The lajl Report of the'late Secretary
of the Treasury; being a brits history of the
Hate of financial concerns of the United States.
The Proceedings of the Executive
of the United States rcfpedlijig the western in
furreilion : Containing many and cir
cumstances no where else to be found. 50
cents.
The Letter of Mr. Pickering to
ourminifter in France. 37 1-2 cents.
An Account of the Receipts and
Expenditures of the United States for the year
*w-
I A few copies of the volume for 1794 may .be
had to complete setts.
D'lvernois' account of the Revo
lution in Geneva. ii 1-1 cents.
April 3. J
Mr. Pickering's Letter to GeiL
Pinckney.
A few copies of the above inturcfting paper,
may be had at the cftice of the Gazette ot the V
nitedStates.
nay 13 §
TO BE S 01, D,
A valuable three (lory Brick House ;
SITUATE id Lodge alley, next to tlie har.k.af
Penr.fylvania, the lot on which it Hands, to
gether with the vacant lot adjoining, which ex
tends to Gofoi th-flreet. The house is about jo
feet in front on Lodge alley, and about 41 feet
in depth, the adjoifHng lot is about 96 teet
front on Lodge alley, and 41 fret on Goforth-
Itreet, beings street which lead* from Chcfnut
ftreet and Carter's alley ir.to Drck-llreet at the
horse market. The house confifls of ten lodg
ing rooms, with fix fire places, two dining
rooms, one of them fprty feet in length, the
other about thirty-four feet, each containing
two fire places, two parlours and a large kit
chen, with extenlive cellars under, and garrets
over the whole, a privilege of a vacant l«t
of ground to the ealtward between this houle
and the bank, a pump of excellent water in the
yard, a handiome piazza fronting the vacant
lot, and a frame stable and dwelling house on
Goforth-ftfeet. The premises now rent for
£.3lß per annum. To be fold clear cf all ia
cumbrances.
For terms apply to John Clement StoeAer.
April to 3awtf
Maurice Moynihan*
No. Bit North SecondJlrcet,
A few doors above Arch-flreef, - /
INFORMS his friends and the public, that be has
for wholesale or retail, on the lowest terms, •
general affdrtment of Queen's Ware, gilt and cot
tumblers, plain and flowered quart, pint,'half pint,
gill and half gill do. exa<3 measures, decanters and
wine glades; gallon, half gallon, quart and pint
howls, and chi> a in sets and separate ; poelcet
bottles: Schuylkill and Jersey country quart and
half gallon bottles; Dry Goods, &c. &c.
N. B. Cratesj ut up with care at the ihortell no
tice.
May ic. dtf
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal
Company,
May ij, 1797.
THE STOCKHOLDERS
WHO arc in arrears for any funis due on their
refpe&ive stares, are refuelled to pay the
fame.
WILLIAM GOVETT, Treaforer.
10 ITI4W
To be fold at private sale,
A TWO story dwellinghoufe and let of ground
in the city of Burlington, Hate of New-J.r
fey, in a healthy and pleasant situation. The
house is ps brick,containing four good sized rooms,
with a convenient kitchen and cellar. The lot,
on which is a stable, &c. contains about an acre of
land of the best quality, with a front fuflicient to
admit two 01 three large houses, independent of
that part at present occupied by the house.
For fuither particulars enquire of Joseph M'll
vaine, Esq. in Burlington, or Joseph Reed, No.
a 14, High-street, Philadelphia,
May 1 a. coaw
This Day is published,
By THOMAS DOBS ON,
At the Store House, No. 41 foutkSecond-ftreet,
Price 37 i-s cents,
Iwo Leßures on Combujlion.
QUpplementary to a courfeof Le&ures on CHE-
O MISTRY ; containing an Examination of Dr.
Prieflley's Confideiations on the Doflrine of Phlo
giston, and the accompofition of Water,
By JOHN MACLEAN,
ProfcfTor of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy
in the College of New-Jersey.
May 21 j mwf3p
Venereal Complaints,
PUNCTUAIXY attended to in every (lage of
that disease, without the use of mercury or
reft rain t of di£t, in any cafe recent and simple, on
application at I No. 113, Chefnut-lcreet, opposite
the United States bank, or at No. 170, South Wa
fccr-ftreet, between Spruce and Pine-ftaeets, where
he ha% opened an office for the better accommoda
tion of his patients.
But in Lues Venerea confirmed, Dodor Morgan
pledges himfelf, that nofyflem of cure (hpwever
l'pecious) can be effe&ual without mercury, and
that all the known rules of pra&ice for these two
centuries past, and united experience affirms, that
any substitute for it is but nugatory, and any mode
of pra&ice to the contrary muit be futiie and de
ceptious.
Never thelefs, he undertakes, however compli
cated the cafe, to effedt a cure without inconve
nience or injury to the patient's constitution, and
in time net generally experienced or expeded.
N B. Regular attendance at the office in Wafcer
ftreet, from the hour of nine o'clock in the morn
ing until one, and from three o'clock in the even
ing until seven; buliany other time at his dwelling
house, in Chcfnut-ftreet.
May 16. dtf
Pennsylvania Population Com
pany.
NOTICE is hereby given to the Sharehold
ers, that a further aiTefiment of fifteen
dollars is levied on each share, payable in the
following inflalments—viz.
One quarter immediately.
Onequarteron the ift of June.
One quarter ou the ift September.
Onequarteron the ift Dec. next.
Which they are requested to pay to the Ti ea
furer of the Company at the Company's Office,
No. 53 north Fourth street, agreeably to the
times above mentioned ; and they are further
informed that on their negledling to pay the
fame as above dire&ed, the several forfeitures
direfted by the Constitution,' wilil be cxa&ed
By order of the Board,
SOL. MARACHE,
Trtafurer.
May 15 jim
Gold and Silver Watches,
OF an excellent quality, and neat f.ifhionabf®
Gold Chains. Seals and Kevs, Eight Daj
Clocks and Time Pieces, frfltionabfe Steel and Gill
Chains, &c. tStc. for Sale by
jowrj. parry,
Clock and Watchmaker, No. 38. S. ad street.
Clocks and Watches of all kinds carefully
repaired.
May 19. tuef. & fa.
r ■ ■
For Sale,
At this Office,
No. 119 Chrfnutjhrett,
A feir copies of a late Report of a Committee
of the Senate, on the fubjedt of the
GEORGIA LANDS.
March 13 J
Caution.
THE Public are hereby forewarned againfl
ti lifting the step-daughter of the Subscrib
er, and her mother, his second wife. Repeated
mifcondnifl compels him to forbid any person to
give tjiem credit cn his account, as he will pay
no debts of their after this date.
LUNO BROWN.
Philad-Jphia, May 16, 1797 it—fth3t