- - / -i
#a?Ette 4 «* UnitCDfltateSvi- Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
gl - TUESDAT EVENING, FEBRUART 7, 1797. [FWAT* XI.
— — the Annans, but it does J__ The <000 ,«,<*» of «»♦ "fc*.P"®? "" «* W « k » d
CONTINUATIOh OF % .
Latest Foreign latclhgencc. fime
It is confidently 'affiled. that Eali Affendi is A
goin? to reside at Paris as Ambassador from the
P °U appears that the French were, on the sth of *
November, still in poflTeffion of the bridge: of .1
with • f nien. of byJ
" any mo r.ent had taken place on Us sice of Kehl, c
or on the Lower Rhine. so late as the 10th- Ta;
A Spanish squadron of 19 fail of tne line and ade
several frigates is arrived in the port of louion. ; fro]
Gneral Clerk, Chief of the Topographical- bpr
Department, has been appointed by the three- ma ,
tory, Ambassador to the court of Vienna, for <-
vvaich place he set oat on the 17th inft. No
Noyember 25. r/ ma
Gen. Sim'coe was yesterday fwom in before to ,
his Majesty in Council, Governor of St. Domingo
in the Well-Indies, for which place he is to let
off immediately.
The Hamburgh mail, which became due yel
terday, had not arrived when this paper was put
to press, nor had Government, received any fur-
ther intelligence from Paris.
Mr. Timms, the messenger, set out yesterday, on
and not before, 'jvith dispatches for lord Mahuef- had
bury. These it is generally considered, contain Ma
the final resolution of government on the fubjeft
of the present negociatioh. Mr. Ellis, we under- JV
stand, will have to deliver a verbel message to his Tr(
lordship. . pof
Extract of a Lettsr from an Officer Rationed at too
St. Marcou, dated Nov. 19, 1796.
« The trooos -for fame months past had
lined the French coalt opposite to thele lflanas ; ulc
have marched frorh thence, being, as lam inform- er ,
ed, ordered to reinforce thearmies on the Rhine. <
Even the lignal posts which, previous to these be
encampments, were eftablilhed along the (hore,
now appear abandoned: so urgent have been t.'ic rai
wants of the French government for men. All an(
the eun-boats have returned to England." ha.
By the arrival of the Spaniih fleet at Toulon, fw
we are relieved from a late anxiety, left admiral ™
Jervis {hould be blockaded by them at Corsica. ol
A Flen.ifti paper received yesterday of the c 6
date of the 18th inft. speaks of a considerable cai
commotio'h having manifefted itfelf in different th.
parts of Belgia, in confequencs of some violent
proceedings of the French, and which is not a | : j.
little promoted by the late ill success of the lat- p;
teronthe Rhine. A considerable of the
army of Biurnonville, it is said, have been order- bu
ed to march to quell the disturbances.
The court of Lisbon has positively refnfed to ac- [ ri
pede to the insulting proposition made to it by
the court of Spain, viz.—to Ihut out all Eng- an
► lift veffek from the ports of Portugal. The f"
r -~•'"'.court of Spain offered only a period of ten days vc
to decide on this momentous point, and to re- t(j
ceive a careg.y.'iC.VcT"a 11 fwer. The courtflf Lif- ,i
---boTTretUrnsd one v/i; hout h'ghl v honor
able to its own dignity, and replete with good le
faith to its Allies. It declared that it would r e - h;
main true to its engagements with Great Bri A
tain. —Accordingly, when the last letters left ni
Liibon, it was expetted that the Spaniih forces
would Tittaclc without delay. P;
Nothing is worse than ill luck,—Sir Roger
Curtis only left his station off the port of Roche- J;
fort on the 3d inft. in the evening, and Ad- u
miral Richery entered it cm the 4th. We sup
pose his inftru&ions wpre, to wait there no ti
longer. His squadron met Twitli inoft terrible V
gales of winds during its cruize.
The Paris Papers, we received yeflei- c
day afternoon by Express, to the 19th inft. i - h
clufive, give an accou t of fcveral changes k
which have taken place in the Naval appoint
ments of the Republic-.—Vice-Admiral Villaret
Joyeufe, who has till now engaged the confi
dence ofthe Government, botii underthe Com
mittee of the Public Saifety and the Directory,
lias been difniiffed from the command of ths
fleet at Brest ; and Citizen Marad le Gail has
1 een appointed to succeed him—Twelve Post-
Captains have also Iseen difniiffed. Ten Ihips
afrtie hile', ,slKl fS'TrauTports are preparing at Q
Brest for a secret expidition. At Toulon, t
Vice Admiral Martin has been replaced by
Citizen Boucps. The want of money is severe-
Jy felt at both ports. At the latter place 5000 N
artificers have been difch.irged, as it was-found r
impoflible to pay them.
" The Santa Margaritta of 38 gups, is gone J
»ip Hamoza to refit ; the Edgar of/4. guns,and (
the Spitfire of 16 guns, are now up. <
" Ciame from Hamoaze, and failed for Fal- t
anoutli, his majesty's P, cebe of 38 guus, capt. j
Larlowj and Amazon of 30 guns, capt. Rey- J
molds.
" Chapman of 24 gunt is gone up to L* no- 1
c. J y r
aze to rt:i'u.
Extract of aletterfrom Portsmouth, Nov. 21. |
" In confeque.ice of an order received this
morning by the Telegraph', his majesty's ships j
Latona of 38 guns, hon. capt. Legge, and
Greyhound of 32 guns, capt. Young, irnme- !
diately put to sea.
" Admiral Gardner'! squadron is] ready, :
and will fail in a few days to cruise on the coast i
of France. 1
" The Namurof 98 guns, capt. Whitehead;
end Colloffus of 74 guns capt. Grindall, are or
dered to virtual for the Mediteranean."
Extract of a letter from Deal, Nov. 21.
'• Sailed thro' the Down's the General
Pinckney, White, for Charleftown. Remain 1
the (hips as per last. Wind S."
NoDembbr 22. ,
" Sailed this morniug on a cruise to the
Eastward, his majesty's ships,
Melpomene 44 Capt., Sir C. Hamilton 1
La Nymphe 38 Cook
Clyde 31 Canningham.
< 1
The French Dirfdorj haut announced the proportion ;
I for an armistice luitb the Aujirians, but it does 1
not appear ia bane taken place except in regard to
some out posts. - brail
Nothing decijive on the fubjeil of peace, hut it is £sri
certain that negotiations are on foot between the Em-
r peror and the Republic,
Mr. Pitt has proposed a rn-jdi of rasing rtfomces
byfu'cf iption.— '
' Oil the 25th Dec. the Carteret, Captain ban
Taylor, fjjokc with the Andromache, of Phil van
adelp'.iia, Simon Kinfton, mailer, 35 days
J from Cadiz bound to New-York. Palmatheu
horeS. E. 16 leagues. The head of her fore- q
mast was fprnng. . J".* 1 '
" On the 16th "January, spoke the Danilh (hip hi?
Northern Lion, of Altona, Capt. John Yantzen,
master, from Hamburg and lenneriffe, bound .
3 to Charleston, out days. lat. 23, OS, loug. t (, r
I 57-**
ARMY OF ITALY. van
BUONAPARTE 'TO THE DIRECTORY.
t General nartert at Vtrona,
.2 3 Brumairt, Nov- I'i.- .
It it my duty to give you an account of the operations
have taken place since the nth. I was informed >
on the 10th, that an Austrian corps was advancing, and
" had enc imped upon the I'iave; I du'tu tc \ g t;leral ,
n Malleua aifoon as po/Eble with a corps oi ohfer>'at 1011,
H to Uaffano on the Crenta, with orders to retire to vicen-
za the moment the enemy fhuuld pass the Piave : 1 or
dered gen. Vaubois to attack the enemy s posts on the
1S -frendu, ind by all mean, to drive them frow their »•'
polit:<sn between ths L» vis and the Brenta. The attack
It took on the t -th, and a brisk refiflanee was made, y
Ge,n. Guiex went to lit Michel, and burnt the enemy s
j bridge. Hut the latter rendered our attack upon Saonu-
, ' to"ni> purnofe, and the 85th derni-brigadc was hardly '''
' uled in Ipite of it* bravery. We have made joo priion
crs,and killed a great number of the enemy. 101
5. On the 1 ;th, I ordered the attack upon Seguazandrto lon
fe be renewed, a place of which it was.neceflary we (hould we
be in poflellion, and being informed at the lame time that 1101
' the enemy had paifed the Piave, I sent out withAAng- lic
ruu\ diviliun ; we joined Mafiena's divihon at Viecnxa.
*1 and marched on the fifteenth, and met the enemy, who a
had palled the Brenta, came upon them by furprizr, and 1 '
n, fxvept their, from their firft pohtion. The aiStion was
a j (harp, warm, apd bluody; the advaniage was ours; the
enemy repaiTed the Brenta, and we remained 111 poflelTion ei
oi the field of battle ;wc made 500 prifouers, and killed ''
ie cOnCderably the greatest number. We took one piece oi " .
le cannon. (Jen. Lanus was wounded with a sabre. /\ll )
nt the troops are covered with glory.
111 the meanwhile the enemy had on the i3thattacked I ''
gen-Vaubois in several points, and threatened to t ke ' '
a him in Hank, which obliged the gen. to retreat to l.a 11
■Pietra, his riijht to the mountains, and hi- left to Mo'e. 01
he Oa the 16th the enemy did uot make their appearance, m '
:r- but on the 17th there wa< a moll obilinate battle, in
which we took two pieces #f caunon, and 1300 prifouers,
put night coming on, a panic llruck one part of the '
troops.
by The division took its position on the 18th at Uivoli,
g- and Corona, by a bridge which 1 hadcaufed to be erected n "
he for that purpose. The loss of the enemy niuft have been
vs very considerable. t:
Being apprized of what was palling,in Tyrol. I haitened lu
f- to set ont on the 17th at day breik, and we arrived 011 <'
if- tiw -»Xrlr nt mitt dayat Varolii*.
>r- At three o'clock in the afternoon of the 2ifl, having 1
od learnt that the enemv had set out from Montebello, anc ' ,r
- e . had encamped at Villa Neva, we went fijom Verona, e "
and fell in with their advanced guard at' Si Martin.
1 ' An"ereau attacked it, routed it. and purlucd it three rc
e ' t miles; it el'caped under night. ,H
:es On the 2:ii, at day break, we found ourfelvcc in the I>C1 >C
preleijee of the enemy. It was neceflary to put them to
r fJ r flight W r c attacked them with (kill and bravery—Mas 'a
' fena's diviiion attacked tluim irn the left; gen. Angereau at
on the right Our futeefs was complete. Gen. Angereau £ ''
lC! " took the village of Cardera, and made ico prisoners. di
'P" M.f'hcua made hiinicif master of the riling ground, rc
no turned the enemy about, arjd took five pieces of cannon ;
i)) e but rain which (ell in spouts, wasl'icceeded by a cold
lleci, whivh a strong wind biavvin the faces of ourfol- hi
(tiers, and favoured the enemy, who, being joined by a 31
f " corps of reierve which had not been beaten, regained the cl
i'l- height. 1 have lent off the 7jth whii,h was
jes ktpt in reserve. The two armies guard their position.
n i. X'he weather continues very bad. to day our troops m
ret take repol'e; to morrow v/e lhr.ll regulate Qur opoiationj P :
- by tlie movements of the enemv.
(Signed)
,m - BUONAPARTE. rl
ry, ' f <
thjj Bulletin of the Army of Italy. "
has ' r
General Quarters Verona. 23 Brum aire Nov 13.
. " On the 18th Bruuintre, the diviiion of the Divi-
-fionary General Vaubois took its position at Cor- a i
II oua. The enemy's army, ii advanced from Viceza t i
on, tcf Montebo.lo, and from thence to St. Martin. it
by The General in chief h». marched the corps •*
re- • which he had upon the Adige, which set out from »
joo Vej-onaon the 21ft, at tty-ee o'clock in the after
lncl noon. It met the advanced guard of the enetny be- "
tween St. Martin & St. Mitchel, which it routed, w
ins and purfucd for the space of three miles. ,
, TJie next morning the two ami es found them
u selves in prffetice of each either, and had a (harp
e.igageineiit. The weathec was extremely bad ;
? -l~ this did not preveht the French aruVy, however,,
pt. from dillodgingthe enemy several times from their
ey- position, after having made tibout 700 prisoners.
The General in Chief having been informed that
-j o _ the enemy were in motion upon the Lower Adige
with a view of palling it, he marched, atday break, '
the whole body of the army to Verona. — The s
21 .' battle was very smart, the enemy's loss was efti- 1
J" s mated very high. Launay, General of Brigade, a
"P s ha-, been killed. , v
and Gentili, General'of division, Commander for the r
ne- Republic in Cerfica, at the head of a column of
light-infantry, made hunfelf mailer ofthe import
jjvj ant height of Mortela, which has obliged the En- s
aa'ft glifh fleet to evacuate the gltlph of St. Florence. c
Three Engiifli (hipsXf war have been burnt in f
, the port of Ajeccio. f
acl; (Signsd) BERTHIER. ,
GERMAN ACCOUNTS. ,
VIENNA, November 12. •
A me/Teuger is arrived here from lord Malmefbury at
jral Paris, with dispatches for the Englllh miniiler at the 1m '
lain perial coun, who immediately aitei had a long confer- t
rence wiUi Baron Thurgut; oQr miniiler of Hate. The t
dispatches were dated Paris, the 27th OiftOber.ind eon
.timed the *»fwer of the direiitory to the firft note pre
t'' e fenitd by lord Malmefbury, in confeqnence ol which fir '
Morton hden has inquired of our cabinet, whether his '
ton Imperial majcGy could commimon and empower lord
Malihelbuiy to ntgociate a peace for Austria ? It frem ;
however, mofl likely, that an Imperial niinifter will be ,
sent to Paris to carry 011 the negotiations jointly with
the Englilh negociatpr, although the trench directory
~tion appears to be averie to all forts of congrcfs.
The 4000 troops of Hetft jDarmftadt, which at firfl of
, were to enabark at Civita V»cehia, have now marched
to'Triefle, from whence they are to be conveyed to Gi
braltar. •
November 15". 1
I (FROM THE EXTRAORDINARY VIENNA COURT hi;
GAZETTE) tin
The reports of field marshal Baron Alvinzv, Rate the | ()
following particulars refpe&ingthe battle wf the 6fh, near
B man® aad Fonteniva, thv eonfequerices of which are
' highly important. 4
"he position of the army was as follow*;—.twelve ftil
1 battalion* were-polled near Fonteniva, and had their ad
vanf'ed posts on the banks of the Brenta; one
s batraljnn was encamped ne<r Cordtyiano, to covcr the
communication of the other corps, and eleven battalions cv<
' were near Ba llano }CO
On thesth at break of day, accounts reached the field jj,
rnarfhalfrom »I 1 fides, that Buonaparte had drawn in all |
) his <}etachmcuts from Leg\ia«o. Ferrary, Verona and ■
Mantebello, and even a part of his battering train; and j
1 had taken a position Hear Viceuza, with three diyiftons. , fid
> These accounts having been found true on reconnoitering 1
' the enemy's position, the neceflarv dispositions were made
to meet them, in cafe they (houldattempt an attack. j
On the 6th. in the morning, the enemy attacked the j 'j* 1
van guard of field martlial ProVera, near Fonteniva, the : thi
report of which having reached Held irjarfhal Alvinzy, ; re ;
the whole army was immediately ordered to advance, and OJJ
tvo battalions were detached tu Lenova, and one to 1
s Morofdica, to threaten the enemy's flank and rear, and |
d to force them to dclift from their attaoks on field naarllial jwl
( j I'rovera. But these troops had scarce reached Lenova, w ,
[| wi'h the enemy far fuperior'm F«rce. attacked them with QU
, their usual impetuolity. Lenova was, with a eonlidera
,' jule loft on both fides, fcveral times taken and abandoned.
But as our troops had confideiably fullered in,this fc- c«
c vere and con (lastly renewed attack, they wereonjered to lal
j r fall back into their former position, which emended lrom |y
k the mountains of tfie Sette Communi, by Morofdice, be- g ,
j yond Lenova, as far as the Tunt i; aun even on this poll
'j tion the enemy made levefal tim-s the mod furious at- •<!
tacks; but about the fall of night the conflitft took adi
| y favorable turn,' and the enemy were repulsed on all points f lt
/. Field Majilial Frovera was eiaoily in the fame litua.
tion ; ... d lie Itates, that his loft on that day amounts to
to forne thousands in killed and wounded, but that very few *
I j were taken prisoners, which (hews, tjiat the troops were In
; , t not thrown into confulion. The field marshal eUituates p,
e . the enemy's loss at 4060 men. .jy
a The night put a period to tlie action, during which,
10 at 5 o'clock in the afternoon, the field marlhal : cceivcd P
the agreeable intelligence, that field marshal lieutenant tc
35 l)av idovich had rendered himicll matter oi Trent, in
ie The situation of our troops having been much impro- CJ
1n ved by this event, the field marshal reiolved to attack
c j the enemy o'n the ytli, in order vigoroully to pursue the
0 f objt<ft of his expedition, if the entmy.on account of tne ol
. ftvere loss they sustained on the 6th, fhouid not retreat. ol
The flight after the battle, was employed to bring the (((
t( j troops to the different pints alEgned them, and to make
the necell'ary dispositions fur the loltowing day. At
t break of day the whole army wa, under arms, and ready 01
g for acflion. But on the return of the patroles, the tield ai
, e marthal learnt that the eijcmv had fallen back, 'i hey t|
' wottld liaye been immediately pursued, but that field
ri marshal lieutenant fovea was obliged to rc-efUblifh the
hg bridge ot Pontoons, broke down by the enemy, which
was accoitipliflied about iroon. Ja
U U At one o'clock in the afternoon, the army began to j,
e d move forwards, both from BafTano and Fonteniva, and
eu at niue o'clo. lc at night, reached the camp near Scalde-
ftrro; three battaliuiis having been left on the rieht flank K
C(1 neai Msuofdica, and the diiferent columns ordored to 1!
011 form a juuclion betivecu ■>! 1 lttro di Gu and (iiolo. But
no cnejiiv to btfven, except that the van guard of p
n „ column overt e*j* me rear of the French, which
n( "j hroiqjjtt on a trifling skirmish between our trbops and the H
[4<l enefuy. _
yn thi Bth, early in the morning, the field marlhal c
rec rcvi. ('d the divifians or field martlial Itfuteuants 1 rove- v
ja anu Quofidanovich, and as it appeared to l» m indif
[l£. petjlably necellary cloiely to purlue the enemy, already
t „ thrown info confulion, without allowing _ tlieni time to
a s and gather flreiigth, the army put itfelf in motion r
au at ten'o'clock in the morning, and pursued the enemy in ,
. au thi ee ciiiums, a* saras Vicenza On our approach they ,
drew in their advanced polls, abandoned Vicenza, and
1( J retreated to Montcbcllo.
,U ' The field mai (liat ordered his vanguard, under general c
nlj Holi^nzollc'rn, to take pofl at Altavilla, and the main c
'oj. body of his to occupy a position on the road to Verona, c
j a and Mas determined, in cafe the enemy ihould not eva-
[he cuate Montcbello in the course of the night, to dislodge
j- as thein from thence the next morning
The French General Anuffc, who commanded the ene
aps mv's and van guard, ieverely wounded, taken
cnii prifonef, and conduefed to Vicenza.
VIEN'N.-*, Nov. 18. |
A messenger is arrived here tiom lord Malmelbury at Pa.- [
ris, with dispatches for the minister at the Imperial
eouri, who immediately after bad a long conference with Bj
ron I hugut, our minitter of state. The dispatches were dat- '
ed Paris, the 17th Ottobar, and contained ihe ariiwerof the 1
Diieftory to the Hi ft note preloited by lord Malmcfbury; in |
consequence of vyhich, fir Morton Eden hasinquired of our .
V 1" cabinet, whether his, Imperial majeltv would commilli(V>
1 ~ ■ and empower lord Malmefbury 10 negotiate a peace for us- 1
trial It seems mofl likely, howevei, that an Imperial minis- ,
ter will be sent to Piiis to carry on the ilegociatiens fointly 1
*ps wiih the i rvrlifh negociafor, although the Irencft Directory
0111 ai'peais-to be t© ail fortj of congress*
The 4000 troops [of Hf iTe DarmUadt, which at firfl were |
to embark at Civita Yeccnia, haee now marched t« Tricfte,
whence they are to be conveyed to Gibraltar.
'"■ p CONGRESS OF thr UNITED STATES. 1
d ; —
er,. house of representatitbs.
teir 1
' rs * FRIDAY, January 13.—Continued.
Mr. Harper said, they had been informed farther
tevenae was wanted. Every gentleman who had
l,g advocated a fyttem of direst taxation, had taken
fti- pains to prove this, 'which was unneeeffary. He
4e, admitted the fact in the amplest extent. But there
was another position of gentlemen in which he by
''"l no meant agreed, viz. that the foarce of indirett
taxation, would, if refortcd to, be unproductive,
p n . and that it had lince been exhaafted, confe
e. quently, that we mull have recourse to a land tax to
tin procure the necessary supplies. This statement he
entirely dissented from. He was pcrfuaded this
country poffeiTed ample sources of rev.enue, thre'
eflahlifhetJ channels, to raise all the money wanted.
The quettion, then, was one of expediency, whether
this or that mode of raising revenue (hall be adopt
iter- ed I And here lie would observe, that however the ,
The tax was laid, it roust be paid by the people; the
co " pofftffor of the foil and consumer mult pay. The
j^ r whole question was, which way will fee the most
. ],; s convenient to draw the sum wanted from them ?
lord Whether by a circuitous and inditeft mode, or
cm i d y a dircdt and pofitive 1 method ?In comparing
' these different modes 0/ taxation, it would be ne
tof}, ctffaiy to take a view of the difference of circum
itantcs which liiftiiigoifoei ihiscountry from ethurs,
of whose practice in this refpcdl we had foms
knowledge.
He confefled there were great difS.ulties aftend
-1 i«g this fubjoft. He was not a&amcd to c ante fa
himfelfvery uueqoal not only to the ta/k of indica*
ting t» the house what meaftires would be proper
to be taken, but even of judging for himfelf on the
fubjefl. It was a fubjeft which h*d engaged for a
long time tlje heft talents of thi« country, and there
still existed a divifmn of opinion about which wa»
the best mode of railing revenue ; but, when an In
dividual wa« called tipon to foms a judgment, bow»
e»er difficult the talk m&jr be, he mull take feme
j courfe-or other, and in his choice he could only be
directed by his own understanding, improved and
informed by the experience at others.
Since the fubje& was full of difficulties on all
fides, he said, they had only to chufe between evils.
He was of opinion that whatever objections might
be brought against the fyflem of inditedt taxation,
that the inconveniences of that fyliem weic far left
| than those which would be found in a fyliem of di
rest taxation. With refpe£t to a land tax, or tax
on real property, there were circumstances in whick
he believed it the very belt mode of raifiug revenue
which could be adapted, vis. in a country where
wealth & population were equally diffufed through
out the whole territory ( were markets were, of
course, every where convenient 5 where a farmer
could easily exchange his labour for another man'*
labour, or where produce fold evety where at near
ly the. fame price. In such a country, he believed
a land tax was a very good tax ; there the ratio up
on which such a tax might be equally laid, was rea*
dily attainable ; but, in our country, he said, the
situation of things was totally diiferent.
( It was well known, that the great population and
wealth of this country lay near the sea coafi, and
: that, in proportion as it was reaeded fr«m, the pa.
1 pulation became thin and the country comparative
ly poor by being far removed from a market for th«
1 produce of the foil. The exchange against a man
t removed 300 miles from the coast was so great, th«
much oi what he sent to market was waited by the
' expence of conveyance. Hence results, said he,
, the feSrcity of money which exilts in the interior
: of a country like ours, which renders the payment
of a small sum inconvenient, and this difficulty can
" not be removed by any regulation which on be in
t troduced, A man on the Mon .ngaiiela called up*
f on for twenty (hillings, would lind it lie hcavierwp
i on him than a farmer on the Delaware would find
f twenty pounds lie upon him, as he would experi«
ence more than twenty times the difficulty in pro«
, curing the money ( for, from the fcarcliy of circu.
lating medium, in remote fituafions, it was almost .
0 imp'oflible to convert the molt valuable articles of
produce into money, wbilft persons living near a,
good market were able to fell the molt triliing
o cles for a good price.
t These observations were so well verified in that
part of the country with which he was belt ac»
c quainted, that tlfangh the molt equitable valuation
had taken place, yet a tax which had been laid in
d consequence of that valuation, had been collected
• with the greatclt difficulty.
y It would be found, therefore, from these ftate
u ments (for tiie ttuth of which he appealed to eve
n. ry gerttleman who had thought upon the fubjeft)
n that" let direct taxes be laid in whatever manner
they might, tliey would bear ejttrem.ly hard in
fnme cases, though they mi x ght be perfectly light in
al others. This lie considered as one of thegreateft
" objeitione to a land tax, an objciftion which did not
exist in European countries, as they are full of inr
re habitants, and the farmer had where a mar
ket for his produce.
f n lndireit taxes, on the contrary, Mr. H. said,
were c©lle£ttd with facility, and were voluntarily
paid. If a man found himfelf pinched for money,
3 - he might refrain, from purchaling.'at leali for a
time, of such articles as were taxed, and not ira
lt. mediately necefiaries of life, or he woulel make a
he less quantity serve him ; but a dircft tax could not
,B be avoided, however unable a man might be to pay
it. Hence, he said, would arise executions and a
if- variety of diltrefs amongst that class of citizen*
'f- who wete unable to meet the demands of gewn
'y ment.
ry
Another obje«Sion, not lef* strong, to direA
j' e c taxation, was the impossibility of apportioning such
a tax equally. He said impossibility, ?nd he was
wairanted in the expression. He was desirous ef
"" hearing how the committee of Way* and Mean*
. meant to apportion and colledl this tax ; but thi*
information was withheld, and they were called
upon to agree to the principle without any plan of
carrying it into effefl. He said it was impossible
from two causes; firfl, from marketsbeing remote
ier in foane parts and convenient in others, and confer
ad quently land being of much less value in f.ime part*
en than in others, and from the vast inequality which
■Je took place in proportion to population and to the
•re improved or unimproved date of agriculture. S»
by that some parts of the fame di/Mft was of much
id more value than others, and even some farms more
re, than other*, from the superior skill and indultry of
fe- their present pofleflbra, or of those who heretofore
to poffetled them. There, was no part of the country,
he he said, where this remark would not be verified.
!>i« Combine with this circumflance, the contiguity
re' and distance from markets, and the impossibility ef
rd. an equal apportionment would appear evident. Nor
ier was the diffance from a market alone to be confidr
pt- ered ; bad roads were an insurmountable objefiioa
he in some parts of the country. How these difficul
he ties were to be overcome, he was at a loss ta fee,
'he He believed such a tax could not be laid with any
oft degree of justice. It had been aUempt#d in some
n ? slates ; in some it had been found impracticable,
or and 1# otheis attended with very great incoeveni
ing ence. In the (late which he represented, it had
ne- been attempted upon a principle which seemed to
im- be generally approved ; but it had been found that
c/s, a man who pvffefiVd land t>f four tiroes the valu« ofhis neighbour, paifl no Higher'* tw tVan he who- p
poficffcd the pnor lan<l. ,
What, laid Mr. H. must then be done ? Would
you lefort to an aiT.flment ? If so, you embrace an n
immense expeiife. For an assessor to go through p
, thc 'United States, land to class every farm accord- v
irig to its value, would not only be very expense,
but it would require a very long time to accomplish g
such a bafinefs ; and the expense could not be dated
at left tfean from twenty to forty percent, the firft .
year upon the sum raised. And to preserve . iy,
thing like a just valuation, it mali frequently be E
Tepeated, as from emigration, and a variety of a
other caufei, the value of property was continually f
* changing, and thereby the expense would become
very heavy. Besides, from the attachments and
interelts of the persons employed on such an occar-
(ion, there would be no certainty of obtaining a .
just valuation. t
, Viewing ail ri'.efe objections, thersfore, he be- j
lieved it would be allowea', if it was not impeffible, f
it was at lead impracticable to any good effect to '
lay au equal land tax. In other countries, he said, '
" these difficultier, did not exist. The rent of pro- (
perty afforded a certain criterion by which to judge ,
of its value, and there was therefore no difficulty ,
fn forming a just apportionment. 1
These obje&ions, he remarked, couli! not be I
urged againlt iodircft taxation ; but there were
other objeftioHs. They were told that the fotirce '
of indirect taxation was so far exhauded, that to |
encreafe these taxes would risk the int,rodu&ion of '
fmujjgling, by which the. morals of individuals 1
would be destroyed, and the revenue dimiuifhed. 1
These, allowed, if tine, were very serious ob- '
jefliont; but he denied their truth. Ho.* did it
appear that this source had been so much exhausted 1
that no addition could be made without introdu
cing smuggling? TUere was no flatement to prove
this ; bnt he believed he should produce a state
ment which would prove th<; contrary. He be- 1
lieved the duties on several articles were rapidly in
creasing. This proved that duty was paid with
ease and, convenience, and that it might be aug
mented withont danger. But they were lold,
that whilst the revenue depended upon commerce,
it was in the power ef foreign nations greatly to
embarrass it, and utterly to destroy it by a war
with, this country. The propriety was therefore
urged of transferring the tixes from sources which 1
might be so affc£lgd to internal sources.
These objeiflions, Mr. H. said, deserved to be very
seriously weighed. He believed them to He infinitely
the moftfolid which could be urged against this mode
• of taxation ; and if true in their whnle extent, would
afford real ground of objection. But, in the firft
place, it miy.be remarked, we are already in this pre
dicament. as ojjr refeurces depend upon duties arifrng
from foreign articles imported ; and we should be fto
morefo, by increaling those duties, since we were as
«ffe<ftually under frhat influence whilst five millions were
drawn from thit source, as if double the sum was
drawn from it. He would ask, if the danger was in
creased by increasing the duty ? He believed not; but
that the benefits would be increased, without increasing
the danger or evil.
He believed, however, that this objection was so so
lid as to command attention, and to require us to fbape
our course accordingly. He believed it was advisable
for them to turn their eyes from foreign t» domestic
sources of revenue, and commence a system, which
may be increased as neceflity may require, and upon
which may be transferred a part at least 6f that duty
which is at present drawn from foreign sources. This,
he thought, was found policy, and this would be found
to be his intention;
There was another point of view, in which lie plan
lie should propose recommended itfelf. all knew
money was Immediately wanted. They were not to
project a revenue which would be wanted by and by ;
1,t00,000 dollars were wanted immediately. This
sum, he said, might immediately be drawn from esta
blished channels ; but how long a time, he asked, would
it take to raise it by a dire£l tax ? Thof« who were belt
acquainted with the fubjerft, would be able to fay there'
was always great uncertainty in new sources of reve
nue, particularly when the objedt of taxation was en
tirely untried. Circumstances might hereafter juftify
a transfer of a part of this tax, but, at present, the
system of taxes already organized, should be relorted
to, as in that there could be no deception ; they would
only have to ask for the money and ft would be there.
He believed it would be to extend any
farther his general observations on the introduSion of
this fubje<?t x he should now fubir.it to the committee a
sketch oi objefis, which he meant to propose in place
of a direct tax on land. He did not mean this as a
Complete system ; some of the articles might pe-haps
be properly enough struck out, and others introduced.
He intended more to recommend the plan than any
particular object. He would, however, point out the
sources which had struck him as proper tolie resorted
to, and leave the committee to determine upon the
propriety of adoptiiig or rejecting them.
Salt at present paid u cents pe; bushel, ard theckar
inereafe of duty from 179J to 1795* had been from
*47>000 to 345, cop dollars. This inereafe, he said,
proved that the present duty was no way burderiforrte,
as the ccnfumption had greatly increased. He there
fore proposed an addition of 12 cents pirbufhel, which
■would make an inereafe of duty at least 300,000 dollars.
„ If it was thought this was too great an inereafe, a less
might be adopted. It might be said this was taxing
a necefTary of life ; bat, he said, if fait were taxqdi !
he could use what he pleased of it; but the fame re
jr.* k wmld not hold g<;od with refp*<ft t 0 a tax on
land. Three bushels of lalt would serve a laboring
man, his'wife and three or four children a year, or
admitting it; to be four bushels, this additional duty
would only amount to half a dollar, and what portion
of a land tax would fall lighter than this! It would
be said fait was used for cattle alio. The quantity used
for this purpose, he believed, was final!. A bushel of
fait would be enough for 30 cattle in a year, but if \it
■were twq bushels, the additional duty would only be
a quarter sf a dollar, which would not be felt by a
mar. who kept this number of cattle ; and if his num
ber «as larger, and he were a dealer, those to whom'
be fold them weuld pay the duty. The fame jekferva
tion wquld hold good with refpeil to fait used in fall
ing up provisions for file.
His next'objea was an augmentation of the tax on
foreign merchandize which at preient paid percent,
ad valorem. This duty, he said, had increased from
T793 to '95 from 4iJ,000 to 1,781,000 dollars. There
had, indeed, beer, a small inereafe of duty between
**9j and '794, w hie I. operated 111 1794, bat the in
ci'eafe of duty had nfct been by any means equal to thi«
n.creafed produce ; and this being the cafe, it
hi concluded the duty ha* been paid with convenience
and that it would bear an augmentation, and more pari
ticu'.-rlv if It was recollefled that the articles included
»n this clals, wtrc raeftly articles of luxury and ex
pence fair rtbjetfs of fine* «
ihe tax won la fall fpuu the rich cpffwf*. P^ a Pfj
he said, there aiight be inme articles ot riectULy
the lift, whfch might bedeiudted, without making a
material iifl«ence in his calculation, lie would pio- j
pose to augment this class of articles to ij per cent.
which would produce 300,000 dollars.
He would propose alf<> to augment that clats 0.
goods which at present paid per cent, ad valorem.
The duty on these from 1773 to 1795 had increaled c
from «3,0c0 to 645,000 dollars. This duty having t
increased five-fold (allowing for a small increak ot a
dutv as in the former cafe) it might very well be aug
mented, especially as the articles in this chfs were
alf) articles of expellee and luxury. Suppoic 2 i-i
per cent, added to this ; clifi, it would produce ieo.soe
dollars. ,
His next objefl was that class of foreign merchan
dize which at present paid 15 per cent- The net re
venue of this class in 1793 was 81,000, m 1794,
36a,800, in X79J, 885,00 c dollars. Thucla f s of ar
ticles, he said, was exctedingFi numtrous, «ind corn
prifed many articles of geuei al confumptisn by all clal- 1
fes of the community, but also some of expcnce. rei- <
haps it would not be advisable to increale the duty very
much on this particularly as many of (
were such as were manufactured in this country, and (
to increase the duty too much, might enrour a mo- j
nopuly amongst our manufacturers at home, wjiich he i
w r ould wilh to avoid.—He (hould think, however, 25
per cent, upon the present amount might very well be 1
laid, which would produce ioc,ooo dollars. (
Madeira Wine was an article, the duty upon ,
which might be increased, though it was already 1
pretty high. In 1793 this duty had produced 1 17, 1
000 dollars, 1794, 152,000, in 1785, 190,000 (
dollars. The consumption it appeared had increaf- 1
ed very confiderablv and he thought it would at 1
least bear 10 per ctnr. upon the present duty, which 1
would produce 15,000 dollars. He believed this
might be done ; but if it (hould be doubtful, it
might be dropped without inconvenience.
Sherry, Lisbon, and certain oii er unenumerated
wind, the duties upon which he oelieved liaol in
creased mere tha» upon Madeira, he proposed an
augmentation which (hould be equal to 15,000 dol
lais.
Foreign Spirits not distilled from grain, was a
msiigft the objects on which an augmentation might
take place. This article produced in 1793, 898,
COO dollars in 1794, 1,492,000, in 1795, 1,400,
000. The drawback in 1795 had been greater
tha* the preceeding year. He would augment this
duty to per ceut. on present amount, which would
produce 100,eoo dollars.
Bohea Tea was an article of great consumption,
which at present paid io cents per lb. In 1793
this uriicle had produced 163,000 dollars, in 1794,
226,000, and in 1795, 222,000. He said he
was not so certain with refpeft to the pni*irietyof
increasing the duty upon thife article as upon ethers.
The fmallnefs of its bulk made it a convenient arti
cle for fmugglisg, and it would not therefore, be
prudent to advance the duty toj high upon it. He
thought, however, 10 per cent might be added to
it, which would produce 20,000 dollars.
Brown Sugar, he said now paid if cent per Ib.
It had poduced in 1793, 646,000 dollars, in 1794
510,000, in 1795, 7o 1 7,000 dollars. This duty
of t 1-2 cent having been found a very light duly,
being more so than the duty upon moil other for
eign articles, he propose to augment it one cent
per lb. which would produce 4®®,oo® dollars.
These augmentatioasjadded together, he said,
would amount to 1,450,000 dollars.
This sum, he believed, might be very well raif- I
ed by additional imposts, which was a greater :
sum than was wanted ; 1,200,000 dollars being 1
' the ettimaied sum required. The augmentations j
( which he had proposed might therefore be greatly ;
. reduced. This additionaly revenue, he said,"- would
i be raised without as increase of expence of one cent
in the pound, by a fylletn ef collection already ef
' tablifhed, and understood, and might be produced
' without delay. '
] He proposed also that 100,000 dollars ftieuld
. be raised by a tax on (tamps, and 150, or 200,000
, by a tax on windows.
He propefed these ? he said, not so much with a
I view of immediate revenue, bur as a means ps tranf
-1 ferring by degrees the revenue from foreign to do
mestic sources. He had no doubt that a tax on
' (tamps might be made to produce 500,00o v dollaißj
and a tax on windows 4,000,000 if wanted. This
' might also be done with great facility, ant) would
t be infinitely preferable to a land tax, as it would
j fall equally upon all parts of [he Union. He was
. not lure jjut a lax upon hearths might not be (till
r better; and by these meafu res they would fee how
j far they could go in drawing revenue from internal
instead »f foreign fosrees.
This, he said, mn(t be gradual. The firft thing
aeceffary was to organize a tax, which might take
, several years to bring to perfeftien. In the mean
time, they (hould get what was immediately wanted
) from the sources he bad already pointed out 5 and
- in cafe of future wants, they could have recourse
h to the (tamp and window or hearth tax.
s r ° ar P cr Concluded with faying, he was feufi
ble the Dianhehad proposed an imperfect one;
» but as gentlemen had been cautioned agaitift object
ing to the fyfiem of direst taxation, except they
n produced a fubltitute, he had piodueed this, which
g might be added to or dimiuilhed from, as the c«m
>r mittee (hutild fee proper. He was convinced of the
) neceffily of iurther -evenue, and he believed that
a the paiiiatifm of the people <>f this count,y would
d ll,du! :' e ,hem to pay-whatever tax they might be
>f convinced was nectffary.
« Mr. S. Smith, from the committee to whom i l
a was referred to enquire whether any and what
»- a » endmen " were nece(Tary in the aft relative to the
n military eftablilhment, made a report, recommend
-1 Ifund, y iterations, the principal of which was
t- the repeal ot that part of the, aft which relates to
Mg.it dragoons, and to a n ajor.general and his Raff
n Ihe »cport was ordered be committed to a com
t. mitiee of the whole.
•e Mr> M'difon, from the committee to whom was
n referred the confidential communication leceivcd
from the Prefideiit of ihe United States, a few davs
is ago, gave notice that he had a report Io make L
d 1 uis business sni(bed, the houfc
Adjourned till Monday.
v Philadelphia, February 7. j
Ext raft of a letter from Norfolk, dated January
27. '797- .
<• Our allies are pkyiftg the devil «.th " where
they can take hold, here we are weaning fait from
our iratfmiring quilitie.. The Yankee, are as ««ch
exafpetated again ft them, Jo you fee what ehanges
a little time brings abeut. I
Married on Saturday evening last, by the Rev. {
Doctor Rogers, Mr. John Howe, to Miss Eliza
FlinTham, both of this city. . I
COMMUNICATIONS. ,
The French party seem very sure that an envoy
extraordinary will be sent to France—because they
infill that the very fame (hould now be met
ed out to France that W33 raetcd to Btitain it),
1794. If they think thus, is it not strange that
they do not propose an embargo ? Does their own i
conduct make' no precedent for ancfther call exact
ly similar, putting France instead of England ? i
Why are they filer.t about sequestration of French ,
debts and propetty : Why do they not prohibit all i
commercial intercourse vith France and her coio- |
nles ? Yet these are the men who boall of a majo
rity in one house of Congress, and neve i belefs have (
charged the friends of order with paitiality and in- i
confirtency, as if a minority were answerable for |
what they cannot d», and as if they thought the ,
task easier to make the charge again ft others than ,
to answer it themselves. Fasts are ftubboru things.
Colonel Pickering is attacked by a drowfyfeep
tic, yclep'd " a citizen*' on the score of ignorance,
because he was not so learned in the treachery of
courts, as to di Jbeiieve every thing that the Minis
ters of Louis the 16th, /aid, published, or did !
A Secretary of State here is to aft the part of a
member of a Democratic Society—to believe every
thing untrue that any government asserts) and to
aft upon any thing foatier thau the evidence of
faftsand the best authentic documents. The ,tio
ral spirit of this country ib net debased enough to
fanftiau this fort of political decyphering. When
e»er it becomes rteceffary, however, in felf defence,
good mailer citizer. has told us in what diplomatic
corps we may find a mailer key to the cyphers.
It has been been frequently and justly remarked
that a habit of falfehood realiy bewilders some per
sons. When once accustomed to represent things
as they are not, they lose the nice and ready dil
cernment of the impreflion that facts make upon
those who ate nfed to feeing and reprefeuting them
at they art. The chatafter of public men is a fact
of this fort—it is in reality the impreffioti that the
public has taken refpefting such men. When we 4
speak of a Congress man's or Secretary's charac
ter, we do not confine it to one man's pi irate
judgment, .npreven to that which would'geneially
prevail, if the foibles and weaknefles of the char-,
attcr in qtieftion were trumpeted abroad. The ac
tual impreflion on the public decides what is called,
character, a word which imports that we speak of
what is, not what might be.
TheTe observation lead one to remark on the
great blindntfs of the diforganizersas to facts.
| Their little junto has so longbrpoded over the tales
! thai are hatched in their midnight meetings, that
| they lwfe all knowledge of the judgment that the
impartial and refpeftable public has definitively
! pafled upon the characters thev have slandered.
The Prefiderit and the heids of the Depaitments
are mentioned in the Jacobin Gazettes, as having
funk very low in the estimation of thc'Citizens—
and thi3 they lately tell the very public which at the
moment is solicitous to evince it a unbounded ref
[ pest for tha President, and which is alfa reading the
, 1 able, perspicuous and masterly report of one Secre
t tary 011 the Land Tax, and the excellent and irre
, fragable diplomatic letter of another.
The Jacobins mistake their own opinions for that
of the public, and they become once more as they
, have been invariably heretofore the dupes of their
own credulity and malice.
| The anarchists arc sue that an extra envoy will be
I fcle<sted for a Trench million froai the iDemocratic
corps. It might indeed please Fiance to fee such an
' ; one, becaafe Charles de la Croix would answer our end
1 no worle and that of France nc better' rhan a true De
mocrat. Ihe man who would have fubjesed Mr. Jay
I in 1781 to the Count de Vergennes has given proof of
his gallicism and might polfefs and deserve the confi
. denee of every body, but his o»n countrymen. Yet
; however experience has not much encouraged the selec
tion of Jacobin miuilters or corporals. The burnt child
j dreads the fire. '
| EXTRACT
From the Speech of Governor AD/!MS, tc the Le
gi/lature of AUJfaclufetts, on the 27th January *
. Friends and Fellow Citizens,
1 I think it a duty incumbent upon me to ac
' quaint you, and our fellow citizens at large, that
1 having arrived to a ftsge of life, marked in holv
■ win, and verified by constant expciieace as a time
: of labor and fjrrow, it is highly proper both upon
t my own account, as well as that of the public, to
i decline the future fuffrages of my fellow citizens for
: the office 1 have now the honor to sustain. i have
had this in contemplation near a twelve month palt.
t The infirmities of age render me an unlit pcrfen, iu'
, my own opinion, and very probably iu the opinion
c ot others, to continue in this Ration ; and I men
. lion 'it now, that those of the Electors who may
g prubabljrbe too wa.mly attached to me, may not
„ nullity their own votes by giving them for me. I
J have always been convinced that many others might
have been found to fill my place, to greater advan
tage to the commonwealth than is now or evet has
# been ui my power—b the civil department during
d the times of war and of peace, 1 have served her
, •^ va "® n »*«n« n » t0 the belt of my ability, -and 1
() hope with general approbation ; and I can f ay w ;,h
, UWh, that 1 have not enriched myTdfin her fer
viee. My warmed thanks are justly di eto my con
wT ot r n lJr , t t! : I£CO " fiJence tl,s y have placed in me.
nIM " ft felehfcd from the burthens of my
public ftatien, I shall not forget my country. Her
welfare and hern j
I- liberty and' independ L
great lhare in the bell wishes of my heart." ' *
TREATY qf PEACE,
Between the French. Republic and , he „f„ t Dn ,
s P 2: ma " coneluded undcr the
rhe « , » ft L important condition* follow • *
ftal P " CC l| d """'y between these
"" w 9 - f r
. The ftipulatiow of Buonaparte, on the zoth
Floreal, , r e be ft,idly and solely 2 ° h
* .sftr &r"" r """
»**»<>*
.There is no region upon , he eom
each/ country, but the neceffiry dimes „f . u
country, and preference is acceded ro rhe inhabT
L a,,t fi AT T Mry ' ™' mmual dl ».ret
be fixed by a separate convention
The exportation of French me ,; h andiz, throat
M eftpu. ,f the duke shall psy onlv a , §
transit or passage, and not of imp or , a ,; 0 ,,
being intended for the maintenance of Widge, Jd i
repairs of roads-articles tranfmiucd by rivers or
navigable canals, (hall pay no duties
In execution of the 6th article of, the Haeue
treaty, concluded the zzi Floreal, tWd year the
present peace is declared also wi,h the Batavia'n re
public.
(Signed) CHARLES D£ LA CROIX,
COUNT POLITI,
LOUIS BOLLA.
Paris, November 6.
■ «isf»7rft7rrE ARTICLE.
His royal l.ighnefa .gives u j, one-fourth of the
duties of entry upon merchandize coming f, om the
foil of the repubhef its colonies, and filhfries for
his int«rior conlumption, ai.d exjj,.r; , „ thear
Wcle* of his produce designed for the republic itp
on a reciprocal advantage allowed him with :hcra
namely, on their importations from his territories'
and their exports intended his fubje&s.
JN; ew Theatre.
'ON WEDNESDAY EVENING, February 8
Wilt be profented, (for tht fourth time) an Historical
Play, calkd
Columbus';
Or, A WORLD DISCOVERED
WITH NEW SCENERY. MACHINERY,'nkESSFI
AND DECOR tTIONS.
The music composed by Mr. Reinagle.
The proceflions and Pageant by Mr. Byrne.
In this Play the manners and tuftoma of Mcxico and
Peru characterize the firll discovered nations of Ameiica.
■ Such deviation from HiUorical truth was deemed nereitry ™
, for drs'matic effed, and has euablcd the anthor to mtro
" duce the pathetic Tale of CORA and ALONZO, from
Marmontel's lncas.
aUE-y\\lbe (poke by Mr. Wic
• SPANISH PAt i Y.
. -Columbus, Mr. Cocier
3 Alonzo, Mr. Moreton
t Harry Herbert, Mr. Wigtfell
Dodfor Dolores, Mr. lianuooi
liribon, Mr. Francis
Roldan, Mr. Fox
Valverdo, Mr. Barley
s Mufcofo, Mr. Bij/fett
r Captain, Mr.' WDuuali
ift Spaniard, Mr. 'Barley, j;in.
„ sd Spaniard, Mr. Morgan
INDIANS.
Orozimbo, Mr.\ Warren
Solafco, -Mr* V lift mage
Catalpo, Mr. Warrell
Cuto, Mr. J riurrcll 1
Cora, Mrs. Merry
t Is'elti, Mrs. Francis
\ Priefteffcsof tkeS.m,{J£;
, Indian Women, —Mrs Htivey", Mrs. Doctor, Miss Mil
bourue, Miss Old field Miss L'Elliange, Mil* Batea, Mill
Anderfon, and M'etle Sophie
c In ?£f i.
A PROCESSION' OF IN Dl, A Ns, and the fir!
Landing ot CAlumkus.
1 In a 6) ,n.
d REPRESENTATIONGI' A STORM AND EARTHQUAKE;
wittl a (> r~:l }■' " T.' -- : "• r- : c .
if A March of Sacrifice, and Proceflion to the Execution
i- of Cora.
■t The whole tb Conclude wun A GRAND PAGEANT.
TheTcene of the Volcano designed by J. Kich.irdi,
■j Esq. r. A. principal Sccbe Painter to.Covtflt-Garden
Theatre.
The reft of the Scenery designed by Mr. Milbonrne,
an<i the whole executed by him and under his direc
tion.
Machinist, Mr. Lenthai!.
The dresses designed by Mr. Gibbons.
To which will be added,
A FARCE, called
« Love a-la-Mode;
J Or, THE HUMOURS OF IHi TURF.
Ie [Written by Cbarlea Mackllfi, Efq ]
, n Sir Calaghan O'Bralaglian Mr. ll'arrcn
■ 0 Sir Archy M'Sarcafm Mr. Bates
Squire Groom Mr. Harvjotd
>v Beau Mordecai Mr. Frauds
e Sir Theodore Goodchild Mr. V/arr
'■, Sci vant Mr. Mitchell
in Charlotte Mrs. Harvey
in {5° The Public are rcfpe&fully informed, that the new
n comedy ? o.f The Way to get married is in preparation,
and will be speedily brought forward ; after which Co
'y 'lumbus will neteCarily be JaU aside.
Box, One Dollar twtntj -five tents. Pit Seven E!g«- *
I "of a Dollar, and Gallery, half a dollar.
ht £5" Tickets to be had at H. &P. Rice's dook-ftore.
p. No. 50 High-llreet, and at the Office adjoining ! e
Theatre. .
Ladies and Gentlemen-are requeued tolled t ctr
'Si servants to keep places a quarter o'clock,
cr ro order them, as fooa as the company are teatf®, to
I Withdraw, as they canoot on any account be pern" 1 "
th ted to remain. ,
• r . The Doors of the Theatre will open at j, a n " lie
.. Curtain rife precisely at 6 o'clock. . ,
Places for the Boxes to ue taken at the Office in ' |C
IC ' front of the theatre, from lo til! 2 o'clock, anc ium
■X io till 4on the days of performance,
cr VIFAT RES PUBLIC J!■■■* " -
Philadelphia,
TUESDAY EVEKINCi. FEBRUARY 7.1797- ft
We are happy to learn that the Philadelphia Ga
will be continued by, Mr. Andrew Brown, h
S«B of the late Mr. Andrew Brown ; he is a '
you; g gentleman of bandfome acquirements, and,
we d< übt not will merit a continuance of that d.l
tinguifhed public patronage which the Philadelphia
Gazette has so amply enjoyed.
Married, lad Thursday evening by the Ri«bt I
Re*. Dr. White, Dr. F. Young, »f thi» City, ti
M Miss Frances Holibav, of Bermuda. a
— . P
The Eastern Mail had not arrived .when this t<
Paper went to Press. tl
— c
Yesterday arrived here, in a felp from Marseilles, | t
Monf. de Montpenfier and Monf. de Beaujolois, bro- „
thers of Monl d'Orleans. u _ b
They have left Frauce with a passport from the Ex
ecutive Directory, to come and reside amongst "the
good friend* -nd aUie» ot' their country.
COMMUNICATION. a
The expreflion that Archduke Charles would prove J
the bed segociator for this country was e
nough never used by tile gentleman to whom it is a
scribed by a Jacobiu gazette. However that may be,
it isaJmelt as easy to'vindicate as to misrepresent it.
In the ftrll place the Archduke Charles would not r
leave the terms entirely to the i-reucluhemi'elves, which
the more than half Frenchman whom the party would n
employ directed Mr. Jay to do in 782. t
But the question really is this, Do the fuccefles of
the Auftrians tend to the good or evil of this country
as it l'efpedls France? the uncontrouled power of
France has excited her to abuse the rights of the Ita
lian and other dates. Tfie fame caul'e has led her to 1
attempt to cut off the trade of England with this coun- 1
try. This is the true motive of all her conduit, as t
the declarations of the French thenafelves have clearly t
proved. Now do oujr-patriots chul'e to avow their mi- f
abated wifees that France may so on conquering and
fSTßmjOTitrll the trade and independence ot-Amenca
are as low at her feet as that«f Tufcany and Sardinia !,. 1
With less power fee will no doubt effeit mere mode- t
ration and treat neutrals better in proportion as fee c
comes down again from the imaginary throne of unit
verfal dominion te that level winch will oblige her to
r'efped the rights and fulfil the duties prescribed by the
laws of nations. Not wifeing to fee my native cotln
try, plundered and oppressed as it is, I wife success to
those who are fighting our defpoilers androbber's. May
France keep her independence and gain finally that li
berty winch fee ha 3 so much abused and outraged ; but
may her power never be so augmented as to put our
rights and sovereignty at her mercy. ,
F»r the Gazitti or the Unitid Statis.
THE WARNING No. 11.
INDEPENDENT of the commands of hnnor, 1
the cooled calculations of intered forbid our becu- 1
ming the inltruments of the ambition of Fiance, !
by associating with her in the war. The question '
is no longer the establishment of liberty on 1 lie ba /'
iisof republican government. This point the en -
mies of France have ceased to dispute. The ques
tion now is whether (he (hall be augraudixed by mew
qui fit iocs, and her enemies reduced by dilmem 1
tie i„ a ra»v render her,the
jnillrefs of Europe, and confuquently in a great
measure of America. This is tru y the lemaiuing
fubjeft of contention. '
They who understood the real strength and re
sources of France before the prelent war, knew
that (lie was iturinfically the moil powerful nation
of Europe. The incidents of the war' have dis
played this fa£t in a manner which is the a(W»ifh
ment of ,the W'rld. If France tan finally realize
• "Her present plan of aggrandizement, she will attain
to a degree of greatness and power, which if not
counteracted by internal disorder, will tend to make
her the terror and the scourge of nations. The
fgirit of moderation in a date of overbearing pow
er is a phenomenon, which has not yet appeared,
x and which 110 wile man w ill expect evet to fee. It >
is ceitain that a very different fpitit has hilhorte
marked the career of the new republic ; and it is
tiue .0 truth to add, that the arden', impetuous,
and military genius of the French, affords perhaps
less profpeft of such a spirit in them than in any
'other people.
'Twere therefore tontrary to our true intercft to
aflift in building up this colossus to the enoimous
iize at vyhich (he aims. ,'Twere policy as (hort '
fiflH'-f * ff "*'" f '****J a fubfervit 1 icy to
her views as the price of her clemency. This at
bell would be but a temporary lefpite iroiri the rod ;
it indeed that can be called a rtfpite, which is of
, itfelf the lacrifice of a real to a nominal indepen
dence.
These reflections are not designed to rouse a spi
rit of hostility against France, or to inculcate the
idea tlt#t we ong)>» of choice to participate in the ;
war agaifift her. They are intended merely to for
tify the motives of honor, which forbid our (loop
ing to be ccmpclledj either to submit without resis
tance to a viuual war on her pari, or'to avert her
blows by engaging in the yvav on her fide.
When it was the opinion, 'hat France was defend
ing the caute of Liberty, it was a decisive argu-.
mcnt againlt embaikirig with her in the contest,
that it would expose Us to hazards and evils infinite
ly difproportioned to the afiiltance we could render.
Now that the question plainly is, whether France
/hall give the law to mankind, the addition of our
opposition to her plan could have too little influ
ence upon the event tojufti'y our willingly encoun
tering the certain dangers and mifchiefs of the en
terprise. 'Tis our true policy to remain at peace,
. if we can, to negotiate our fubjeds of complaint as
long at they (hall beat all negotiable, to defer a
refortjo arms 'till a lad effort of negotiation fliall <
have demonstrated that there is no alternative, but i
the surrender of our sovereignty or the defence of 1
it—that the only option is between infamy or war. '
But if unhappily this period (hall ever arrive, it I
will impose a (acred and indispensable duty—to
wieet the contest with firwnefs, and relying on a I
just providence, confidently to commit the iflue to c
the God of Battles.
While it is a cenfolation to know, that oar go
vernment, on this as on other trying eccafions, will
aft with perfefit prudence, and will do every thing f
that hoi,or pnmitj to prefenrc peace; Yet it is uot i
«
tn he forgotten that there is a point st which for- . „
bearai ce must flap—beyond which moderation ! T
were bafet-efs—where we must halt and nuke a
stand for our rights or cease to pretend ta any. wi
When the'indifcriminate seizure of our veffeta
by British cruisers under the order of tbe sixth of sri
Novrmber 1793, had bfought otir affairs with B
Great Britain tu a crisis, which led to the measure th
of fend i ig a special etiv<»y to that country to ob- •
tain relief and reparation, it was well understood N
that the iffuc of that miftUn was to determine the ea
question of peace or war between the two uations.
In like manner, it is to be expected that our execu- fe
tive will make a solemn and final appeal to the justice
arid filtered of France, will infilt in mild but ex- h«
piicit terms on tbe renunciation of the pretension
to intercept the lawful cojnuierce of neutrals with li
the enemies of France and the inilitution of some ca
equitable mode of ascertaining and retributing the u
lodes which the exercUe of it his inflicted «pon our ai
merchants. If the experiment (hall fail, there will ai
be nothing left but to repel aggression and defend t|
our commeree and irrdependenee. The refoluti <n *
to do 1 his will then be imposed »« ihe government ci
by a painful but irrcfiftible neceflity, and it were F
an outrage 'o 'the American name and character to c:
doubt that the people of the United States will ap- pi
prove the refolutioH, and will support it wilh a con- w
ftancy worthy of the jtidice of their cause, and of ei
the glory they have heretofore delerved and acqui
red. I"
No: let this never be doubted! The servile (1
I minions of France—thole who have no fenfibihty in
to injury but whea it comes from Great Britain, h
who are unconscious of any rights to be protedted vi
itgainft. Franee, who, at a moment when the pub- ,(1;
lie Ufety more than ever demands a drift union be- ai
tween she people and their government, traiteroully
labour to detach them from it, and to turn againlt 2
the government foi pretended faults, theA-fentmeiit
which the real opf.rcffu.ns of France ought 10 in- t(
spire—these wretched men wilt difccvcr in the end, b
" that they arenas irtfignificant as they are unprinci fa
pled—'l ney will fina that they have vainly flattered w
themselves with the co-operation of th# great body it
of tho(e men with whom the spirit of party has
hitherto associated them—ln such an extremity the F
adventitious difcrimii.ations of party will be 101 lin fa
the patriotism and pride of the American charac- F
ter. Good citizens of every political deaomiiia- h
tion will rcmembtr that they are Ameiicans—th»f d
when their country is in danger, the merit 01 de ir
merit of particulnv measures is no longer a question
—that it is tbe dmy ot alt to uni e then efforts to J
guard the national rights, lo avert na'ional hub
miliation, and to withltand the imposition of a si
yoke. The true and genuine spirit of 17761 9
not the vile counterfeits of it which foofteudifguii j>
our eyes and our eirs, will warm every truly A me- v.
rii an heart, and light up in it a noble emulation to n
maintain inviolate the rights, and uniuilied the ho- u
J nor of ihe American nation. It will be proved, to
the confuQon of all falfe patriots, that we did not C
break the fetters of one foreign tyranny to put an f;
those of another. It will be piove'.l to ihe
world that we uoderftand our lights and have the V
coiwage to defend them. li
But there is tiill ground tohtve that we IhalNiot 1
t>c~n.ivcii 10 liiis clifagrrcrrtric-extttmity. l'hemoie f
r deliberate calculations ot Fiance will probably tef f
' cue us from the prefer.t embarrafsiiient. I. (Jio.per- u
feveres in her plan, Ihe mult inevitably at'd all. the -
neutral powers to the numbei of herenemies. How
( will this fulfil the purpose of destroying the com- y
- merce of Great Britain ? The commerce «f those 1;
powers with Fiance will then intireiy cease, and be
turned more extenflvely into the channels of Great 5
Biitaiu, protedtcd by her navy, with the co-opcra- i
t tio'o of the maritime fofce of those powers. The r
e relult will be the reveift?of what is projc&ed by -
c the mcrfute. The comrri;rce and revenue of 'Bri- r
tain will in all likelihood be augmented rather than (
I dirainifhed ; and her arms will receive an important ci
reinforcement.
u Violent and unjust measures commonly defeat v
s theii own purpose. The plan of Starving France '
was of this delciiptiun and opuattd againd the ~
views of its projedtors. The plan nuw'adoptcd by
France of cutting u.ff the trade of neutrals with her j
etilmies, alike violent and /Ur'jtiH, will 110 doubt I I
) end in limilar difapp»intment. Let us hope that i\
it will be abandoned, and that ultimate rupture
j will be avoided—but let lis also contemplate the
! pt>fl»bility of the contrary and prepare our minds r
seriously for the unwelcome event.
. . AMFRICUS. j f
>f GAZETTE or the UNITED STATES j '
~ MAKINK LIS!', jt
A Swedidi Barque, in 70 days from Gibraltar, "j
1- has arrived at Maieus Hook, with the Americans
e , released from captivity at Algiers.
e ; Yederday arrived at the Hook, the brig Tryal, (
'- Cap;. Kriox, from Hamburg. We have recived v
>- papers by this none later than the 14th
I- I of No v cmber. ! -
r A small (hip from Port-au-Prince, and a large J
j white bottom.(hip, are also arrived in the Dela- \
- waie—names unkntrwn. j f
1- Ihe ship Fame, Jones, in 68 days from Lon- j '
, don, is arrived at Marcus Hook.—Captain Jones j
- (when 6 days out) spoke admiral ElphinUone, t
. from the Cape of Good Hope, with a Duteh (loop 1 1
e of war : admiral Elphinftone knew nothing of a; '
r Sp.mifh war, until he met the Fame, although he , '
- had boarded a Spanilh frigate the day before la c
- the Fame came ten passengers.
, Norfolk, January 26. '
s Yesterday arrived here the brig Betley, captain
3 Timothy Baker, 21 days from St. Martins. The
1 captain informs, that 10 fail of Americans had been
t carried into *hat port previous to his failing ; some
f of which were condemned, some under, and others
. waiting for trial—among whom we are enabled to
t (tare the following :
> Ship Sally, of New Yoik, captain John Bayne,
i from Demarara bound home—vessel and cargo con
> demned.-
Brig Mary, of New-York, captain from
Barbadoesto Turfs-Jfland^-waiting for trial.
I Brig ,of Sheepfcut, (Mad.) eapt. Craw
ford, from St. Bartholomews to Georgia—waiting 1 ]
for trial. 1
1 i
. Schooner ,of Newbern, fN C.) Captain
Tinker, had clearer' out fiom St. Martins to St.
Bartholomew!.— baek by a privateer a:»d
waiting for trial. j Q ;
Schooner Elizabeth, of Norwich, capt. Brown, * 1[)(
from Demarara bound to New-York. "Captain f ]r
liiown detained in irons an board the privateer, and tio
the fehoonei waiting the privateers ai 1 al. co '
! Left there, tl)e sloop Jenny, captain kogers, of J.
Norfolk, put in theie in diltrefs, was felling her
earpo. _
j Brig Sally, capt, Adams, of Wilmington, (Del.) p r ,
' felling her cargo. M
Schr. Patty, Capt. Stafford, of Bafton, felling thi
her cargo. P u
Captain Baker also informs, that the American ' 1U
lndiaman, the Ruuidick, of Providence, (R. 1.) mt
capt. J. Ab»r;i, from ihe Isle ot France, wai cap
tured by a French cruiitir on the 26th December,
and carricd into St. Marlins. On the ift of Janu- lia
ary, a't 3 o'clock in the morning, she was cut out by thi
te Bci mudian Jugger Experiment, and carried off. —
The above brig Beifey was taken by a French
cruizer ou her passage from Wells (Mass ) t« Cape In
Francois, carried into St. Martins, and vessel and
cargo condemned ; the -Captain and crew were
plundered of their ' ventures and cloaths : the brig Oi
was bought in by the captain on account of the own
ers.
Came paflenger in the brig Betsey, Captain John #<u
Hall, of the fchooatr Rebecca of Baltimore,
(captured and carried iut« St. Martin's.) who also
informs, that he was plundered ot every thing lit
had, .y the prize ma fie r and crew put on board his do
vessel, and part of his crew put un board a priiou _
.ship, who were obliged to work in the day-time,
and at night were put in irons.
Yesterday arr.vd the brig Bell, Captain Jeffray, j[
2t days from Cape Nichola Mole—infoims, jij
That the brig Pej>gy, Capt. Kiiby, of and bound cit
to Philadelphia, trorn Porl-au Prince, was taken th.
by a French privateer of 12 guns, in Caucus pas
sage ; alierwards re-takeu by a BriiifU man of .
wa- , apd is now in Mole St. Nicholas. Captain
Kiiby was detained on board the privateer. Su
Also, that a (hip from Salem «iit taken by a
French privateer to windward of Turk's lfland pas
sage,—a Bii'ifh sloop of war heaving in fight, the
Frenchman quitted her, and rounding too under
her Hern, poured in several broadlides, which woiin
ded tour of her men. The sloop wat carried her
intovthe Mole.
Ycllerday arrived the schooner Barbara, Capt.
JoTeph White, jun. in 18 days from the Havamia ; c f
by her we learn that the owner of the ship GjJden «f
Age, (mentioned as i apiuied in our paper ot the di
gill mil.) had give-n lrrurity tor the vessel and car- ' J
go and was to ftil 111 a day or two. The Spaniards c ',
would not allow her cundemnatiou in the Havan
-11 a, and her pipers had been lent on to St. D«- O
mingo. m
Yelterday put bark in diflrefs the brig Patty,
c,pt. Lee, having fpuiug a lesk on her passage
faom this pert to Londonderry. t l,
Jjn. 21, Ipoke thc'ichr. Success, of Beverly, i n
(-■apt. l'olter, 'lays out, who informed thai he w
had fallen in with the brig Thomas, captain lfrael p (
Done, then 75 day* out fiom Jamaica ; and the "
(Toop Nmty, captain lfnac Ettick, from Antigua pl
for Baliimore ; boih of which capt. F. supplied v<
with provilious. They had loft two hands. It
Alfxa^J)*!a, Jan. 31. m
C pt.iin Wattles, of the Paragon, arrived heri
ycfterday from Martinique and St. Thbtnas', the '
latter place he Irft the sth inlla'nt.
C?ptain Wattles left several American vessels at r <
St. Thomas', araongll which were fomc that put h<
in there in diltrefs, of this description is the fchoo
ncr COl aclia, Thomas, Irom Jamaica to New-York
—she had been out 93 davs—Alfo, a ship com
manded by Capt. Seawood, frism Surinam, and a
ship of New-Bedford, Capt. Toby, from Amlter
dam.
The afyer Capt. Wattles left St. Thomas' he
was boarded by a Fr-.-ich privateer, ef 14 guns, and
treated politely.
Capt. Watts, arrived at Annapolis, in 19 days from
jSt Martins, makes mentioil o' the capture of the a
bove vefli-1, but. not of her having been cut out by the
English. He fays file was the property of Clark and
Nightingale, of Providence ; and that her cargo was
! valued at ico,ooel.
Newport, Jan. 14. F
I.afl Wednesday arrived here the ship America, Ol
t ney, in II days from Charleston. Capt. Olney in- a ,
loruis that the (kip Three Friends, Capt. Bradley, of ft
i Boston, in coming over the bar about half an hour be- 1-
! fore him, and just before night, struck ; and from the
j tempeftuoufnefs of the weather he is apprehensive the
! veflel and crew muff "have been totally loft.
' PURSI/ANT to a fttiolve of the Board of Truftecs of 1
> ; Wuhihton Academy, in Somerset County, and ■*
• State of Maryland,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
.' That the office of Principal Teacher 111 the said school is
' vacant.
A GENTLEMAN qualified to teich the higher Greek and
Latin daffies, Geography, and the Mathematics, with
. such other bianches of literature as are usually taught ia such
schools, would meet with liberal encouragement, and, it is
believed, would obiain a very eligible feulemrnt. FOl the at
j prcfent, the TruUees would be willing to contract with a per- h
_ ion capable ot taking charge of a Grammar S. hool.
As this Institution is provided with buildings fufficlest to
accommodate the principal and his family, and from seventy
) to eighty boys; a library, an excellent philosophical and ma.
3 thcmatical apparatus, globes, maps, Ac; has refpettable
j i funds, and is situated in a plentiful and agreeable part of the
country ; nothing teems wanting to make it runk among the
" j mod ufeful seminaries in ihis part of the Union, but a suitable
* charj6«r 10 piefide in it.
PropofaU may be addrcfTed to the fubferiber, iu Princess-
A::ne, in the neighborhood of tVe Academy, or to Doctor
Mastis L Hatniz, Mo B.J, north Third-lbeet, Phila
delphia, or to the Printer hereof.
' EZEKIEL HAYNIE.
: January 10. Feb. 7. tu&f 8w
1 A PARCEL OF VERY FINE f<
\ St. Croix Sugars and Rum, p
> JAMAICA iriRITS, and
LAGUIRA HIDES,
, For Sale by
' Feb. 7.—§2\r JAMES YARD.
70' BE SOU c
The Time of a smart, active, young
Negro Wench, i
BETWEEN 13 and 14 years of age, and just h-jd the small c
1 *pox. For terms, apply at Mr. WILLI AM BAjCTER's, in v
» j south Front-street, No. Jt2, belaw Almond-ftreeu
i { Icbmary 7
BOSTON, January 17.
LEGISLJTUHE OF MASSACHUSETTS.
Addrrfs to the Prejident.
Yesterday Mr. Cboper moved the appointment of i
.joint committee of the Senate and HnUie to draft a re»
»fpe£lful address to Present Washington—exi»ef*
fire of the nioft per tret approbation of his adrainiliVA*
tion —the extreme regret experienced. 011 lir.Uiiig our
country about to he deprived of his eminent fervicea,
and our fervent jviflies that he may find the most per
fe<J| happiness ill his retirement Mr. Cooper oblerv
ed, he should have made this motion in the iaft leffion
—had not the hajfe with which that session
prevented hi"' —he had experienced an oinxisty that
Maj r aehufrtts should have taken the lead in teil /ying
the-gratitude, that the labors of that gfcat'man for the
public good, had iiripreffcd on every feeling heart;
but asieveral legislatures, actuated by a spirit of com
mendable emulation, had seized an eailitr morrient to
prefer their addrelfes, it was now ouf duty to follow
these virtuous examples^
The motion palled unanimously j and Mefirs. Wil
liams, Otis and Euilis, were appointed uu the part oi
the House.
The Lyceum, for free Debate,
In Mr, Poor's School :Ro m, Chtrry Jlreel, b<twttn
Third and Fourth Streets, North.
Adjourned Qutjlioh.
Oii Wednesday evening, the Sth February, will be
continued the debate 011 the fallowing
" Ought a Rcprefentatiite in a Republican Govern'
ment to aft on important mt afurc from the rejult of hit
own judgment, i f from the will of bis Conjlituents le
gally exprejjed ?"
I he chair will be taken at 7 o'clock.
Admittance for ladies and gentlemen, x-Sth of a
dollar.
February. 7. £2
Dr. Perkins
INFORMS the Citii ni of Philadelphia, that he has takes
lodgings tor a few days, ac the Indian Queeß, in 4tk
hfeet. He will be happy »o wait on any persons iu this -
city, between the houn, of 9 ;.ud l, who wilh to latisfy
theßifelveaoi the efficacy of his
JPATMKr MET A Lire POINTS,
And will operate gratis for the relief of the poor th«
inftrusnents, and the right of ullng them, are for sale at
his lodgings.
Subjoined, are Ext rails from a Pamphlet, containing ma
ny remai'kahl* c. Fes, attcfted by charailEtsof the high'
elt refptilaiiility.
Extrads froiu Letters to ihe Author of the Metallic Discovery,
Piirpont, Edwahos, Elq Ilifiriet Attorney for the flat*
of Connecticut.
V'- Now-Haven, Ootober 7, 1796.
Dear Sir,
/ I should have written you last week, had I then been
able to ascertain ccrtain fads, the rumour of which I had
heard. A Mrs. Beers, a near n'eighbour to me, the wife
of Lben Beers, and daughter of capt:.in Samuel Hoggins,
of this town, had been, ior tourteea veeks, exceedingly
dillfelTed with the Rhcumatiim, to lut.h a degree that for
fourteen week* pr viotn to the 19th of lu'l month, she
had net been able *. walk across tile room even with crut
ches. lave only once, when file made out with thu a (lift.
ance of crutches to hobble part of the way aero s her loom.
Ou the 2vtli o! September tail, she procured a set of your
metallic fubftanccs, acdin less than an hour after ihe had
begun to ufc them, in the manner dir. vHcd by ) ou, she
roft from her chair, and walked about her house, and on
the next day she went abroad to her neighSourc, having
thrown afidc her ct utches. I have this d..y paid htr a vi.il
in company with her father, and Timothy Jones, Elq.
who lives in the flreet where fee rcfties and direflly or>-
posit- to her residence, and with Capt. Abel Btlrrett, Vrho
ia her nex* neighbor, and lives, within eight yards of her
door. I requested her to relate her cafe over in their
profence, which she did, and these gentlemen all -with on«
voice, supported, from their own knowledge, her flory.
It is a duty which yen owe yourfclf and the world to pro
mulge this event.
I am, very refpe&fully,
t .Your obedient f»rvant,
PIER PONT EDWARDS.
N. B. She fays her fever-has left her, her app&ite has
returned, and (he is in a fair way to be reflored to uerfe&
; health.
February 7, dlweotf
College-Hall.
t Readings and Recitations,
Ararat, Critical, and Entertaining.
Oi) TUESDAY, February, 7th,
At 7 o'clock, will he delivered
The EFFECTS of AMBITION and GUILT,
Exemplified In the ch»ra<sler of
, Satan,
As difplaved by Mi tton,
With Recitations of tile most striking of his fpeeehe*
j and soliloquies, and moral and critical observations on th*
character and the author.
On Thursday,
The above fttbjedl continued, and exemplified is tht.
Fall of Man.
Tickets tobe had of Mr. Poulfon, ju*. at the Library ;
- at mr. M'Elwee's looking-glass-store, No. 70, S. Fourth
s street; and at Mr. Carey's, Bookseller, Market-street—
Half a dollar each.
Peter Borger,
No. 129 Mulberry-Street,
E ILJ AS imported by the brig Tryal, captain Robert Knox,
I X X and the Good Friends, captain Smith, from Hamburg,
7000 Empty French bottles,
* so© do demijohns,
s 346 do. filled with beans and lentils,
100 Hand Engines,
[ 10© Ps. Platillas,
» too White Rolls—
1 — ALSO—
i Several boxes with decanters and tumblers, half pint, pine
» and quarts—o«e invoice of Nuremberg toys—
. fauff-boxfs, lookirijj-glaffes, <scc.
v 100.©00 Q lilis of differenr qualities,
) i£o Boxes Window Glass. 7-99-11
f ON HAND
10 Qr. Casks Sherry Wine,
» 4 do. Brandy,
: aoo Cases bell Holland Gin,
: 200 Boxes Red Wi.ie, containing 12 bottles each,
: One .bale of Flannels aflurttd, and
30 Ps. Cloth,
Fresh Prunes in boxes and barrels.
r February 7. tu *f'
All Persons having Demands
Against the Estate of the late Thomas Franklin,
. deceared, aie deftred to bring in their accounts for
lettlement ; and those indebted to make immediate
payment, to ISRAEL PLEASANTS, ")
WALTER TRANKLIN, or £ Execu -
SAMUEL R. FRANKLIN, S tor,>
January M th, 1796. eo2yf
Washington Lottery.
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be purchased or
exchanged for prizes, at the Office, No. ,47, Chefnut-
where a correct Numerical Book isktrt for publi
inrpe<alOn. Also Canal Lottery Tickets tor sale or ca
ll changed for prizes diawn in the Washington Lottery, of
a which the 54th and 55th days returns are received,
0" Ths Business of a Broker carried on as usual.
Jansary it. tt|tfElegant BrufTels & Turkey Carpeting,
For falc by George Dobfon, No. 25, South Third-street.
Dceeuiber 15. dtf
FOR SALE,
THE SHIP MART,
SAMUEL PARKER, Master,
hundred ton? biK-then. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MARY is not fold in a few days, Iht: will tak
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
d
jf-4rv For Sligo and Killibegs,
The American Ship Nax£T,
aEg|gfg t A Cuthbert Riggs, mailer.
Sfisi£iii2 Will fail with ail convenient speed. For
freight or passage apply to
William Bell;
Who has for fc.le,
4 Trunts Printed Cottons, well afiorted
3 Bales Itilh Flannelo, and z boxes Linens
25 Pipes Brandy
, Madeira Wine ; Indigo. Russia Matti.
Also,
A few barrel* Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
OATMEAL, &c. J
u, 1796, lawtf
j
The fchocmer Orion,
SHK is between eighteen months and two
laifiiMn iTnr_ il. y ears o jj . |, er f rame i s 0 f the belt of W.
T)ak ; she is a faithfuF-buiii velfcl—handfomely finiflied off J
—and well found in every particular ; i« ready Ho receive a
cargo and can be put 10 Sea without any ex pence on her Hull,
fails, or rigging. She stows 600 barrels, has a hand so ihe
cabin and ileerage, and a half deck which will ftowfeventy-.
live or eighty barrels. She is a lad failing vessel—has been F
newly cauiked, graved and painted, and put in thorough good
lepair in every refpeft ; her inventory may be feeu by apply- 1«
ing to the captain on board faifi schooner, laying at Mr. John 0
Wilcocks's wharf, between Chefriut and Walnut Street, wht re %
Ihe at any time may be examined by thofc who [j
wish to purchase.
Theterms of sale may be known by applying to Sairiyel
Smith, ship broker, No. 86, South Front Street.
Feb. 4. dtf. a
0:
For Sale, or Charter, %
jgtltL The Ship DIANA, ' rl
Samuel Pile, Matter,' t(
Burthen 47*95 tons register, built in
SjjPhiladelphia in the year 1792, of live oak
and red cedar, and was ftieathed 13 months ago, ihe
lias just had a com pleat out-fit, and may be fefit to sea
at a very trifling expence.
For terms apply to
Philip Nicklin & Co. d<
Who have fir /ale on beard /aid vejtl,
*7 calks of fine yellow paint. / .
9 boxes and 12 bundles of writing slates.
1 box ink fland»and note presses.
14 bales of fail canvass. —
And on ri
Imperial
Hyson, and, [ TEAS.
Souchong J m
40,000 pieces Nankeens of the firft quality. !
19 tubs Quicklilvcr.
t chests Bandanno handkerchiefs.
A few chetts Manchester goodswell afiorted in Cor- —
duroys, thicksets, Ginghams, Muflinets, Dimities, &c.
3 boxes black sewing silk. \
ISO crates Queens ware well aflorted. n
jo tons Jheet lead.
Nails assorted, flat and foarp points.
London Particular, ")
London Market, £ Madeira Wine,n pipes w;
New-York Market, ) and hoglheads. dr
40 pipes and 10 hoglheads Tencriffe wine.
8 tierces Snake Root. ra
a^o- logs Mahogany. p
Nov- 7. tth&ftf M
FOR SALS AT WILLIAM PRIES?MAN'S aft
No. 15 south Fifth-ftreet, be
Between Market and Chefnut Streets,
AQaantity of Plain Gold Watc(ies ; Gold enamsl'd & w '
ornamented with pearls; Silver and metal ditto, by
the firft makers in London and Paris ; a Time-Piece
by Aruold ; plain gold by Mudge & Dutton; fevcral
diamond and diamond & pearl lockets, rings, ear-rings,
&c ; about 60 lb, of Scotch thread; double-barrel'd guns,
in cafe, by Manton ; quantity of plated table, tea,°and -
night plated candlefcicks, branches, See. 46 volumes of 1
Law-Books, in one lot, mostly reports, folio, fcaree and
valuable books; books of Prints ; —aroongft which- are , 3
Martyn on Shells, Statue da Rofli, Calmet VDicVennaire le
de Bible, Johnson's Poets, 75 vols. Balkerville's Addil'oij, n:
4 vols. Biographia BritaUnica, Opere de Machiavelli,
Ruins of Balbec, Blair's Chronology, Plinii Hiftonca Na
turalis, Montfaucon's Antiquities, State Trials; Evelyn's '
Silva, Poftlewayte's DiAionary, Aittrattii duomiai illuf- tcn
tri Tolcani, Oaevres de Biylc, Caricci.
January 31 § 'o ]
for
FOR SALE, Th ,
At Whitefides' Tea Ware-House, not
No. 99, North Second Street. rc( s
Imperial . } r Hyson Skin. T '
Hy/on, \ Frefli Teas. < Souchoug,
Young Hyson, j ° ro^
)ec - 9/
—v da)
co Dollars Reward. ' nl
mn
LOST, last evening, between eight and nine o'clock, 1
as the fuMcriber was going to his house at the Falls of "
Schuylkill, £r»m the house of his father-in-law, Mr.
Francis Stewart, in Sugar-alley, betw.cn Sixth and Se
venth-streets, above Market-street,
A black POCKET-BOOK, |\
Containing 1190 Dollars, in Bank-Notes he
Froin 5 tp 100 Dollars each, he
One of which was of the Branch-Bank of New-York, 10;
and several papers, such as receipts and orders.—The
road the subscriber fook, was the Falls road, crofting at
the Upper Ferry.
Whoever finds the above Pocket-Book, and returns it
to the subscriber at the Falls, or to his fatker-in-law,
mr Stewart, living in Sugar Alley, lhall be entitled to
the above reward, paid by Pi
JAMES HAFFY.
F't>- 3-
Z— Kt
Bank of Pennsylvania, p
January 4, 1797.
At a meeting of the Directors th>s day, a dividend of r,
sixteen dollars on each (hare was declared for the last ,
6month», which will be paid to the Stockholders af
ter tl« 14th inft. 111
JONATHAN SMITH, Caniier. Fc
i» n - 3- dtf.
I
\
'£>1 A Quantify of Brandy,
FIRST & 2d proof,
Gin, oF 4th proof, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds
Old Hock, in cases ot 40 dozen eaijh
Glass Tumbler?, in pints and half-pints
Window Glass, in boxes, of different lixes
' Hazi'.uts, in sacks
yto Whiting ")
;» w& \
ie. Spanifl) Brown 3
For Sale by PETER BLIGHT.
January 4 #
SALT PET RE.
A large quantity of Double-Refined Salt Pftre fer 1
For sale at No. jj, South Third-street.
November c. (
Clocks and Watches.
LESLIE Ano PR ICE,
No. 79, Market-strut, Philadelphia,
HAVE IMPORTED, by the late arrivals from
London, 1 large assortment »f WARRANTED
IVA TCH ES, esnfifting of horizontal, capp'd and
jewel'd Gold Watches, with fecoads, of iuperior
workmanship and elegance ; also capp'd and jewel'd
f ' and plain Gold Watches ; capp'd & jewell'd, capp'd,
— seconds, day of the mouth, and plain Silver Watches ;
eight day & chamber Clocks; elegant French Clocks
with marble frames ; eight day and thirty ho»r, brass
itc.
wo Decembet 22, 1796. d2m
In order to comply ujitb contrails, I -will jiff, for
1 a approved bonds, on 3 equal annual payments,
A Square of LOTS,
At the upper end of Frederickfburg, beginning op
,en pofite to the lower corner of Doilor Wellford's, on
od Caroline-ftret-t, and running up to the croft street
ly- leading to Fitahugh's ferry, and fr®m back to
ha Sophia-street. This square I have laid off into 24 lots,
re 27 and an half feet front, and 122 back, 12 on Caro
line-street, and 12 on Sophia-street. Nine of those
oh Carol ine-ftreet I have leafed on an annual ground
le rent of 8 and 10 pounds, to the amount of 74 pounds,
and the vacant lots a purthafer could enhance the *alue
_ of by building small houses, which will as readily
procure tenants as pots orgoards will Martins in the
spring, and yiel-tj a greater profit in proportion to
their cost than large buildings. Thofr who incline
to purchase may know the terms by applying to
{ HENRY FITZHUGH.
Bell-Air, Dec. 8, 1796. 7thJ.d4w
ie Women's Cloaks.
;a GEORGE DOBSON,
No. 25, South Third-flreet,
Has jufl reeeived, per Eagle, Capt. Fofdick, via Lon
don, an aJTortment of
Scarlet
Drab / Cloaks trimmed with lur and
Purple and ( ermine.
Pearl J
December 15.
<£* NOTICE.
r T I HE Sales of LANDS of the United States, iu the
i TSorthrWcftern Territory, heretofore advertised *
in ihe 'several publifc papers, will commence this even
ing, at-the City Tavern——to be from day \
to day, 'till the tenth of February next, if not 'foouer
fold.
January 4 £ '
The Elephant, [
Now exhibited, was bought for Ten Thonfand i
Dollars. t
He is 3 years old, 6 feet high, growing to {8 feet. t
He eats 150 weight a-day, and dnnks a barrel of '
» "water ; he has drank fomq days forty bottles of porter, t
drawing the corks with his trunk. v
He is perfectly inoffenfive; travels loose, at the 1
rate of five nailes an hour, and is the greatest curiolity
ever brought to this Continent. <
, He is to be seen 'till the ijth of January, m a
Market-street between Third and Fourth-streets, at "
a quarter of a dollar, that every one may fee him d
after which time the former price of half a dollar will 1
be resumed. 1
He will leave Philadelphia as soon as the weather "
t will permit.
ir December 1 1 ,1 a
\ —— . o
1 Second Ball. ■ °
;• New Cotiliens, Scotch Reels, Contre Dances and a tl
'■ new • Quadrille. «
f A/l ESS : FRJNCIS & MRNE beg leave to inform 1
, IVI their scholars, friends and the public in general, *
o that their second jda.ll fpr this season will be on Tuesday
, the 7th of February, at O'Ellers's Aflembly-Roem,—■ j=
and in addition to their new Cotiliom and Reek, will
' be introduced an entire nsw QUADRILLE, compos- C
ed by Mr. Byrne. h;
s Mess. Francis and Byrne propose to give gratuitous at- dl
tendance at their/School.Room, for the inftru&ion of ca
those ladies and gentlemen in their new dances, who mean tl:
to honor the ball-room with their presence,—attendant
. for this purpofc after their school Hours, on Tuesdays and
Thurldays. J a
Tickets to be had of Mess. Francis and Byrne No 70 o1
north Eighth-street or at O'Ellers's Hotel. I.adies'are c
rcquefted to apply to their female friends, scholars of Mess "
F. & B. or *s above, at their refidcnce.
N : T h , e new fiarices w 'W not infringe upon the usual
routine of the evening.
The days of teaching, for their younjr pupils, are Thurs
days and Saturdays, from three o'clock in the alternoon P
'till fix—and on -Tuesdays and Thursdays, irom (k 'till'
nine, tor those ef a more advanced age.
%■* Private Tuition as usuaL
. January 28 law
• Insurance Company of the State~of
Pennsylvania.
AJOTICE is hereby given, that the diredlors have dc
r IK r ( r if'! THIRr v dollars per share, on ar
, 0f the last f,x : which will be paid to U
he uockho.ders or their legal representatives, after the ec
10th instant. bi
C 1.1 , „ , , SAM - W. FISHFR, Sec'v. ?'
t Philadelphja, Feb. 2d, 1797. duaih. ra
* Le Breton,
0 SURGEON-DENTIST OJ
Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late T"Vni.;fV .1
Colkge and Academy of Surgeons at Paris
Keeps a compUte .ffortßem of every thisg n'eceflary
, 10 be used forthe
1 reiervation of the Mouth and Teeth
if r< f IV l lhoral Teeth, and Human & Ivorv Teeth ■
Dentrifice iw powder- nnlj*» tr i,. '/
1 1
t. He uves in Chefnut-ftrect, No v {
Fourth-Tireet. ' • *35) above J
NovctaUer sfi. n»
tu
Washington Canal Lottery,
NO. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorifsd
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thoufanQ ;
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cuttuig
a Canal through the City »>f Wallungton, fro,.i th Po
tomacto theEaftern Branch Haruour. a.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz .1 Prize of 20,000 dollars, ao.ooo
1 ditto 10,000 10,000
7 last drawn 7 J>ooo 3J.00Q
Tickets, each J
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
IO ditto 4>o°©
ao ditto X©o 2,000
55 ditto 5°
5750 ditto 12 69,008
f Qr To be raised for th« Canal, 16,15®
5830 Prizes, l-7j,000
— 11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
gj* The Cemmilfioners have taken the Securities re
qiured by the aforefaid aft for the pundlual payment ol
, m the prizes.
jj The drawing ef this Lottery will commence, without
n( j delay, as soon as tUe Tickets are fold,of which timely
j or notice will be given.
j : ,. Such prize, as are not demanded in fix months after th«
, j drawing is finiihed, shall be considered as relinquilhad for
' the benefit «f the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
( Signed j NOTLEY YOtJNG,
7 DANIEL CARROLL, o/D, \
al< LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
_ Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
or THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of WaftiiDjlon, Feb. 11. f
p* Cit) ot W aliungton.
et SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11,
to FOR THE IMPROVEMENT 0 t THE
o s : FEDERAL CITY.
r A magnificent ) 20,000 dollars, & ?
1( j dwelttng-houfe, j calh 30,000, are J ' ao °
1 ditto 15,000 & aih *j,oo» 40,00®
I ditto 15,000 & caih 15,000 30,000
I 1 ditto 10,000 & cash 10,000 so,ooo
" e 1 ditto 5,000 & caih 5,000 10,000
0 1 ditto 5,000 & eaih 5,000 ip,ooo
1 caih prize of 10,000
» do. 5,000 each, are • 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,000
ao do. 500 - - 10,000
— 00 do. 100 - - 10,000
too do. 50 . - 10,00s
400 do. 25 - 10,000
1,000 dO. 20 - 20,00Q
1- 15,000 do. 10 - 150,000
16,739 Priies
,3l>»6i Blanks.
, 50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. To favour those who may take a <juantity »f
e Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the Last drawn
j ticket, and the last but oni :
And approved notes, securing payment in either monry
or prizes, in tin days alter drawing, will-be received foi
y any number not less than 30 tickets.
1 This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of the pri
vate buildings to be ertAedin the City of Walhington—
_ Two beautiful designs are already leleiled for the entire
fronts on two of the public squares ; from these prawings
d as soon as possible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the mannerdefcribed in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery. '
if A nctt dtiuilion of five per edit, will be made to defray
} the ueceifary of printing, Second the furplu6
will be made a part of the fundintended for theNatianal
e Uaiveriity, to be eieoled within the city of Waffling ton.
y The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
old off.—The money prizes will be payable in thirty days
n after it is finifhed ; and any prizei for which fortunate
t numbers aie not produced within twelve months after the
drawing is closed, arc to be considered as given towards
j the fund for the University ; it being determined to fettle
the whole business in a year from the ending of the draw
ing, and to take yp the bonds given as security.
r The real l'ecurities given for the payment of the Prizes,
ire held by tbe President uiid two Dirt-dlors of the Bank
_ of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a- 3
mount ot the lattery.
The twenty tour gentlemen who by appoiatmant cf
1 the late Commillioners aflifted in the management of the
Hotel Lottery are requeiled to undertake this arduous task
1 * second time on behalf ef the public ; a fufficiect num
, Jir of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that «he
r iends to a National University and the other federal ob- 1
. jeits may continue to favor the design.
| By accounts received from the different parts of the '
, Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets '
have been fsnt for sale, the public are assured that the
. drawing will'fpeedily commence, and that tkj care and *
caation unavoidably neceliary to insure a lafe dilpofal oi
[ th» tickets, has rendered the inorr fufpe.nfion indifpenlabl*.
SAMUEL JiLODGET.
I Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; of j
James Well & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter Gilmaii, Boflon ;
, of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells
Cooler's Fi'rry. eo
SALES AT THE CUSTOM-HOUSE.
ON TUESDAY NEXT.
THE 7th instant, at 12 o'clock at noon, will be fold
at the Custom-House, for payment of duties, 40
Pipes of genuine
i London Particular Madeira Wine, (
By WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marlhal.
Marfnal's Philadelphia, February 4th, 1797. j
: Davis's Law book Store, i
No. 313, HIGH-STREET. }
GEORGE DAVIS announces to his profeffionil friends, ?
and the GCntlcmca of the Law, generally, through the J
Union, that his late importation oi BOOKS is now v
ed, and ready for Sale, from a Tingle volume to an entire li-
brary, without any advance upon his former exceeding lov* *
priccs, which for several years paA have ia so diltinguilhed a 1
manner recommended them'to notice.
Printed Catalogues combining th'e m®ft exfcenlive collec
tion cf the iateft Ei>gli£h and lrilh Editions ever imported
into this country, arc pMblifti«d, »nd will bedeiiveied «aws
on application.
Orders addrcfled to G. D. in writing from any distance
Inallbe attended to.
A number of iRyNKS for Sale. 4
ALSO, TO BE LET,
A convenient LOFT, near Mai ket Street Wharf.
tu&f 3 ».
A C A R D.
•' , ! f Monfietir G. H. Sohle, 1
n n r 'he aoth June last, and arrived
> olloD f bout the middle of Aisguft, in the schooner '
• t f'i.' , « lsi , ' s tetiuefted to call on 1
Ju;,p . Anthony & Co. No. 5, Chefnut-ftrett. who
wi give him s om e information of importance
\ Dettmber 34, 1796. §
«r-
Mr. Pickering's Letters
This Day Publitaed,
it 4ND FORSJLE Br THE EDItOR,
ing Price three eights of a Dollar.
Po ' L e tter of the Secretary of State, to, Mt. 1
ney, Minister Plenipotentiary of the United Statu • f
the French Fcbruarv*. \ '
Mas. G RAT TAN " "
RefpeAftjlly informs her friendj, and the pub!
general, Hut on Tuesday ,he lo th day of Jan
ftrcef ° Penmg ' 3t No ' 39> North
A Linen and Muslin Warehoad.
Book Muslins, from 6/3 to I ifl I per yar d
Jaconet ditto, from 8/8 to yii per yard
Striped ditto, from 7/jp to 10/10 per yard
Fine Coffees
Tambour'd Book Muslins, from 13/9 to I l/per yard
India Muslin, from jj/3 to i<f per yard
Sheeting Muslin
Jaconet muslin Handkerchiefs, frem 4/3 to 6/per h; ,f
re Book muslin Handkerchiefs from 5/3 to 10/6 per Lai}'
oi Muslin color'd and border'd Handkerchiefs
Dacca Handkerchief
iut Tambsur'd Cravats from ic/8 to li/ll
sly Pocket Handkerchiefs
Cambric, from 11/3 to 16/3 per yard
h« Table Clotks|
or HuckabuckTowelling
r. W omen s Cotton Hofc, from to lsf per pair
Dimity from j/10 to 6/ii
[3, Men's Silk Hose
1 ambour d muslin Handkerchiefs from 11/11 to 11A
irilh linens for Gentlt'U" c;i's Shirts, to 0/7
And a variety of other articles.
N. B. Orders received for all kinds of ready mad-
Linen, Gentlemen's Shirts, ruffled or plain
PocketHandfcerehiefs, Btc. ' " '
_ Houfhold Linen, &t. Su..
A plain (hirt, made and mark'd, 3 1-3 dollars,
A full ruffled ditto, 4 dollars.
f A plain (hirt, mj(de aud mark'd, 5 dollars.
A full ruffled ditto 6 dollars.
A plain fliirt, made and rftarked, ? 1-1 dollars^
A full ruffled ditto 7 dollars.
A plain fliirt, made and mark'd, 6 dollars.
A full ruffled ditto 7 1-2.
- A plain mm, Made and mark'd, 6 1-1 dollars'.
A very fine ruffled ditt* 8 dollars.
Linen included.
_ January 13.
PROPOSALS,
For carrying the Mails of the United
States,
On tbi following P O JI Reads, -will be received until
, tkefirji day of March next inclufiye -•
I. From Charleston, S. C. by Jackfonbeio' and Coola.
hatchy, to Savannah, twice a week. Receive the ' .'i,J
at Charlsflon every Tuelday and Friday hy 6, P. M.'ani
deliver it at Savannah the next Friday and Monday, b ' 8
A. M. Returning, receive the Mail at Savannah ev. -
Saturday, by 6, P. M. and Wednesday by 6, A. M. ai, j
deliver it at Charleflou the next Tuesday and Friday
by noon.
Pmpofalsfar fbii route toiU he received ty tie fiofl-majler ct
Savannah.
S. From Coofahatchy to Beaufort once a week
n Receive the mail at Coofahatchy every 'l'hurfday by 6,
T. M. and deliver it at Beaufort by noon 011 Friday, a
y turning, leave Beaufort Friday by 3, p. m. and arrive
1 at Coofahatchy oil Saturday by 8, a. m.
! J ropoials for carrying the mail on this route will be r«-
** ceived by the pofl-niafler at Beaufort.
Note X. The Poil-mafter General may alter the times
c f® r the arrival and departure of the mails arany time <iav
5 ring the continuance nf'hp "'p l
taring 'an Tsmpenfation for any extpa cxpeuce
>' that may be ocoafioned thereby.
" _ Note a. For every hours delay (unavoidable accident 9
• excepted) in arriving after the times prescribed l.y o. .
f traS, the contra>3or Ihall forfeit one dollar, and if tin
6 deiay continue until the departure of any depending- frail
•' an additional forfeiture ot five dollars ihall be ini)aireti.
Note 3. should any perion making proposals d.efire nu
alteration of the times of arrival and departure above !)v
---5 cified, he mull slate the alteration desired a fid the price
- lie will carry the mail for with and without such alte
' ration. /
> N'ote 4. The contrails are to be in operation on tire
; firll day of April next and to continue until the 30th of
- September in the year »800.
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
1 Foji Master GaierJ.
General Pod Office, >
\ Philadelphia, Jan. 13,1797. j " » ' ■
■ 16. aaw6w.
F
Pennsylvania Population Company.
NOTICE is hereby given, to fitch Share-holders as
as havo not paid their afTeffments on theirfhares—to
pay the fame immediately to she Secretary of the Compa
ny, at the Compaay's Officc, No. 53 north l ; puith {httst,
Philadelphia. They are further informed, that in default
of paying the fame within thirty days from the 4th of Fe
bruary, iwilant, the fevcral forfeitures will he ftiiAly cx
| a&ed, in conformity to the 21ft article of aiTo>„atijii.
r -My ordci the •
SOL. MARACHE, Secretary
Fel-i 2. 4 —
r trejh Lrurden, L,ra/i and iliivcr-zecM,
Roots, &c.
This day landing from the (hip Eagle, captain Fofdick,
from London,
And FOR SALE' by
GOLDTHWAIT k'MOORE,
Corner of Walnut and F-ccond-ftreets,
A mojl cubital and gxtenfive Jjfjortment of
GARDEN, GRASS and FLOWER-SEEDS
ROOTS, &c. &c.
Amoni? which are, ,
Five kinds Afpararl; Three kinds ''" 4
Four Berecolc Twelve
Tv.'f.:ty-five Bean; Thirteen . '
Six Beets Fiftltn '"l-j
Eleven Brocoli Fifteen c
; Twenty-fix Cabbage .Six
Six Carrst. Four .
Three Cauliflowei Twcnty-thre«
Five Celery Twenty-one
Ten Cucumber j
Common and leinon I'hynif
Curled kaf and Parfl-J'
Pot Mary gold Pot Marjorun
Balm Thyme Mangel urtze!
Leek Kail ailoU . r ., 4
Rape Seed Rye Grass Saint Fom "
Red and white Clover ' Timothy, & c -
With a curious callefilion of the most
FLOWER-SEEDS and R°ol">
Being the mod extenfivc ever imported iow '• *■ • j
The above are from a capital Seedsman in ar ' u
are warranted frefli and gowd- , ,
Printed may be had by afp'y* n 6 as "" -
Dec. 17 " •
, FR lN'l'tU » v fO~ffN t t !> •'
> —No. 119 —
CHFSBUT-STKEtT.
[Priuc Eight I'*'