tfje AW Philadelphia Baily Advertiser.
Nvatsej} 1^55-J
Marfbal's Sales.
United States, )
' Di(k< ift. J (T,
BY virtue of a writ of fieri Facias ifiucd outofthe
I)iftri£! Cojart of the United States for the Penn
sylvania Dillrift, to me direeled will be exposed to
Tublic Sale, on Tuesday the fccond day of
January next, at fevcu o'clock Jk tbo evenmg,
at the Mifchltnt's Coffee House in Second Street, in
the city of Philadelphia, the following tra&i and par
dcU-of vacant and unimproved land* fttnated i#» the
County of Bedford in the State of Pennfykrania to
wit: one traft of land called Rulh Bottom, situated
oa the waters of Liclieu creek, in Selfaft township
in the fame county, bounded by lands of Jjicob Bore
man, William Dolhoog. Ralph Brooks and others,
containing three hundred and ninety-one acres, and,
onehundted and tkirty two perches and the uinal al
lowance.
Gne tra& called Newland, fltuated in Belfaft town
fliip in the fame county, bounded by lands of George
Stpes, Monci Difchangs, Neas Willi«m Dticiiang,
John Ruflfle and others, containing four hundred and
four acres and three quarters,and the usual allowances.
Ooe traft called Hickory Ridge, Htuated on the
waaeri of Tonolaway creek, in BelfaJl townfhia, iu
the fame county, bounded by lands of Elias Rutman,
Tcter Sircighu, George Monci
acd others, containing four hundred and
aores and itiQcty-fix peaches add allowauce,
And one traft called Gold Miite, fnuate on the
waiers oi Tonolaway creek in BelfalV township, in
the fame county, hounded by lanfdsof Will iaro Woods
PeterSwartzler, John M 4 Lett, Jacob Bosnian, Tho
mas Logan and oth< rs, containing three hundred and
(cventy acres and fifty-fix p"ichcs
The foregoing tiaft® are all patented, seized and
taken in exccbtior. asthe property of Philip Reilly/
and to be fold by
William N'ubols, IXlarjbal.
i)etfTrh " a a- . s»,i-
Maifhal's Sales.
'Ovttkd States, ) _ '
f'enoiylvama Dtftricfl, J -H'
BY virtue of a writ of 6eri f»cias ifJLied out if"
the diftciil cOHrt of th* Uniwd !tt*t<-( for
tke Fennfylvania diflri,°i, to me directed, will
be exposed to sale, on Tuesday the second
diy of Jattoary next, at seven. o'clock in the
•veuinp, at the Merchants' Coffee-houfe in
Second-street, in the city of Philadelphia, the
followyig trails or parcels of vacant and unim
proved LAND, situated in the county of So
merset, hteeounty of Bedford, in the flat; »f
Pennsylvania, viz.—
A certain trail, surveyed in the name of Ma
ry Eafleman, containing three hundred & eighty
aeres and the nfual allowance &c. situated on the
waters of Stony creek, in Stoney creek townftip,
and bowided by lands surveyed for fofeph Kirk
brtde, John Koads, Charles Keinfhsw, and o
thers.
A certain fwrveyad is the name
ef George Campbell, coataining four hundred
and ten aere» and allowance See. situated on the
weft fide of Alleghany Mountain, cm the waters
of Stony creek, in Stony creek-townlhijf, for
merly Be'lfArdjuqw Somerset county,and boumd
ed by lands surveyed for Joseph Kirkbrida, Ma
ry Eafleman, JsJw» Rowfer and others.
A certain other trail, lurveyed in the name of
Benjamin Lodge, containing four hun<lr<d.and
fourteen a:res & three quarters & allowance,&c.
Huated on the waters of Clear run, a liraneh of
Stony creek, in Stony creelt townfhig, m tke
county atorefaid, and bounded by land* surveyed
for William Gattack, Wiliiam Skinner, Oe&rge
Campbell and others.
A certain other trail, surveyed in the name of
Richard Williams, containing three hundred
and ninety-seven acres and a half and allowance
&c. situated on the (fate read and old road lead
ing from Bedford te Pirtfburg, and oc the wa
ters of Stony creek, in Stony creek townibip, in
the county aforefaid, and bowided by lands fur
veyed for Jacob Stotler, William Gotamy, Sa
muel Adams aid others.
A certain ether traif, surveyed in the name
of William Gattack, containing four- hundred
and one acres and a half and allowance Sec. situ
ated on Clear run, a branch of Stony creek, in
Stony creek tijwnfhip, in the county aforefaid,
and bounded by lands surveyed for Robert Wil
liams, William Skinner, Benjamin Lodge and
others.
A certain oaher trail, surveyed in the name
of Robert.Williams, containing four hundred
and two acres and a half and allowance See. fitu
at»d on tke waters of Stony creek, in Stony
creek towr.lhip, in the county aforefaid, and
bsuuded by land* jfurveyed for Jacob Ziglar,
Richard Williams, Samuel Adams and others.
A certain other trail, surveyed in the name
«f James JoHr.fen, containing three hundred
aod ninety-live acres and allowance See. situated
on both of the state road, on the waters »f
Stony creel(, in Stony creek lownthipi in the
county aforefcud, and bounded by lands surveyed
for Alexander Johnson, Joseph Engle, Conrad
Weaver and others. '
A certain other trail, surveyed in the name
of Alexander Jofcrfon, containing four hundred
iotl fi«e acres ana 4 half and allowance &c. situ
ated on the waters of Stony creek, in Stony
.creek township, in the county aforefaid, and
bounded by lands surveyed for John Lombard,
Jarnw Johnson, Joseph Engle and orhers.
A certain other trail, surveyed in the name
of John Johnson, containing four hundred and
<igh't acres and three quarters and allowance
ftc. situated on the waters of Stony creek, in
"Stony ereek townihip, in the eouuty aforefaid,
and bounded by lands surveyed for Robert Tnck
jiefs, John Shoemaker, Mathias Uaker and
i»thers.
A certain other trail, surveyed in the name
of William Campbell, containing feur hundred
and feVentfen acres and a quarter and allow
ance tec. situated adjoining Jones's road, and a
on a large run emptying into Laurel-hill creek,
otherwise called the North Fork of Turkey-foot,
in Miilford township, in the county aforeraid,
•and bounded by lands surveyed for Joseph Bark
er, Mathiw GofTet, Benjamin Rufsieand others,
A certain other trait surveyed in the name of
Beifey Gilbreath,containing three hundred&nina
tiy nftw acres and one quarter and allowance, Ac.
situated on Roaring run, a f;nall hranchuf l.aurel
Hill in Mdford township, in the county a
forrfaid, and bonndsdby lands surveyed for John
Driver, Moses Parker, J«fej>h Barker and others.
A certain other trail surveyed in the name ef
Joseph liarkrr, containing four hundred and three
acres and one quarter and allowance, &c. situated
on a large run emptying into Laurel Hill creek a
bout a raile above ih« fulls, is Miiford township, in
the county .aforefaid, and bounded by lands sur
veyed for Mathias GofTett, William Campbell, Bet
ley Galbreath and others.
A certain other trail surveyed wi the natne of
James Ciffna, containing four hundred and one a
cres and one quarter and allowance, &c. situated
on Jones's Mill run, a branch of Laurot'i HiU creek,
in Milferd township, in the county aforefaid, and
bounded by lands fr.rveyed for R bert M'Connel,
John HendiH, Kcnjim:n BaiAfon „ nd others.
PHILADELPHIA: FRIDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 29, 1797
A certain other tradl surveyed io the name of
Mary Galbreath, containing lour hundred ano
one acres and allowance, &c. fituated-«n Jones's
mid rim, a branch of Laurel Hill creek, in Milr
ford towprffcip, in the county a&vefkid, and boun
ded' by lands furvcyed for Gabriel H.ifter, James
CifTpa, James Campbell ajnd other?.
A certain oth*r tract ltsrveycd in the name of
James Campbell, containing four hundred and
twenty three acres and one qturtar and allowance,
&c. situated on the head waters of Sheer's Mill
r*o, and on hoth G<J;* piftJU).
Miiford and the coun
ty aforefaid, and l>oitn<!rd by furvcyed for
Tlieodore Memiwger, William SheafF, John Scott
and others.
A certain other traA furvcyed in the name of
John Scott, containing four hundred and three a»
cres and' three quarters and allowance, &c. situat
ed ou the head waters of Shaver's mill ryn, in So
merset township and county, late Miiford
township, Bcdiord county, aud bounded by lands
surveyed for William Sheaff, Jtimes Campbell,
William Scott and others.
A certain other 1 trftCi, fprveyed in the name of
William Scott, containing tjirce hundred and eigh-.
ty-nine acres, and one quarter, and allowance, See.
fituared on a large run, emptying into Laurel Hill
, Creek, about a mile ahove the middla road, i& 3o
merfrt township, Somerset county, late Miilford
township, Bedford ccunty, and bounded by lands
surveyed for Isabella, G&fcrcath, William Coatcs,
Robert Martin, and others.
A certain aihei ira&, filtvcycd in the name of Sa
■WtlHagcrtlian, containing four hundred and thir
teen acres and allowance, <scc. situated o»> both fide»
of the Sfate road on the waters of Stony creek In Stos
ny creek townthip, formerly Bedford, now* Somer
set county and. bounded by'lauds fuiveyed for Samuel
Hillcgas, Cornelius Bams, Jacob Slottcr and others
A certain other trad surveyed in the nameol Fran
cis Walker, com anting three hundred and ninety-twb
acres and & l**U a*d *tiof»*Ace, occ. fituatcd on the
of th« NorfchJFoikof Turkey Foot, thf
line between Miiford and Turkey Foot
Sorarrfpt B dford tomitytnd bounded Uy
lands Purveyed for Jeffe Brooke, John Brooke, William
Btddle and Peter Fuotman aod others.
The foregoing lands are held by warrant of Survay,
Seized and taken in execution as the property of
Philip Reilly.
William Nichols, Marjhal.
December 23 dtg ].
Marshals ,Salcs,
United States, 7
Pennsylvania Diftrift. J
BY virtus of a Writ of venditioni exponas, UTgie J
out of the Circuit Court £of theWnited States,
in and for the Pepnfylvania Dillrift of the MiddU
Circuit, and to me direfled will be fold at public
fait at the Marihals Office in Race Street No. 1 ij.
on Saturday the 30th day of December intt. at II
o'clock at noon, two elegant engraved Copper plates
ot Shakespeare, one plate of Harmony, Bartolezzi,
one plate of prudence, do. one plate ot meekneft, do
one plate of beauty, do. arid one plate of Harveft
home do—Seized and taken in execution as the
property of Tnßram Bampfylde Freeman, and
John Nicholfsn, Merchant!, trading under the fifm
of Freeman and Company,
And to lie fold by
William Nichols, Marshal.
Mar/haTs office >
December ißthl79? J dtf
THE SUBSCRIBER,
ONE of the late firm of FREEMAN 'J Co.
thinks it a duty he owes to himfclf, to de
clare, tUat ha iino wife concorntd mthe property
above adveitiftidiiytheMarihal!, nor ought he tq
be fokjefito the fajd aAion, which will be dilut
ed by the party whole iittereft it is.
7 rijlram Bamfylde Freeman.
Deeember 11 dt3oth
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not btfore disposed of at private fait)
Mondaythe iirftdayof January next, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchant*' Cof
fee House, in Philadelphia, Twenty-Six Thousand
Seven Hundred and Eighty acres of L<VND, in the
State of New-Yoik, between the northern bounds
of Pennsylvania and the now, or late
in the townships of Hamdeuand Warren, and coun
ty of Montgomery. One fourth of the ouichafe
money to be paid at the time of fate { for the reftdue
credit of one, two and three months, will be given,
on inhered and good security.
Deo 4. yawtS.
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not btfore difpofpd of at private sale)
A\N Monday the lirit day of January next, at fix
V/ o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Coffee
House, in Philadelphia, Forty Thousand Nine Hun
died and Thirty-Nine acres of LAND in Green
county, Commonwealth of Pennfylvania,on tha Wa
ters of Fish and Wheeling Creek, and tea Mile Run.
Thefc lands are fertile, well timbered and abound in
vcoal; they were ten years ago for 5s per acre,
patented eaijy in 1787, except 3,700, whioh were pa
tented in 17Q? 5 Ihe grearcil part of them were sur
veyed in 1783.
This trafcl is between the Ohio and Monongahela,
very convert ient to water carriage—about 19 miles from
the town of Walhington, and from 14 to 16 from the
villages of Greenlburgh and Wheeling. One fourth
of the purchase money is to be paid at the time of
sale ; for the icfidue a credit of one, two, and three
months will be given, on interell and good security.
Dec. 1. 3 tawt J*
Thomas Randall,
PRESENTS his refpeAs to his Friends, and the
Public in general, informs them that he hasopensd
an Office, at his haufe, No. 88, Spruce street, for
the purpose of tranfa&ing bulinefe in the line of
gommiffion and Agency, colle&ing rents and out-
Handing claims in any part of the Unitt.l States.—
He flatters hirofelf, that from his long refidorice in
this country *nd a general knowledge of it, hiifer
cices will be found worthy the »otke of those who
may pleale to con6de to him the management of
any of their concerns.
N- B. Security given where required,
nth mo t4 yawtf
FOR SALE,
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. 55, the corner of Chefnut and Front streets,
A Large quantity of Clocks and
Watches. Atf», a |reneral »ffortmont of Tools,
JEiles and Materials, coßfifting of Clock Move
ments, eight day and thirty hour brass pinions
and f&rge work ; Bells, clock and watch Dials,
Springs, Haiids, Gliffes Punice Stone, Emery,
Rot fret! Stone, Cat Gut; bench, ftantl and tail
Vicesi Turns, Pliers, Chains, Seals Keys, -&c. See.
* # * Apprentices Wanted.
novembcr 3. f&tutf
, To be Sold,
The time of a Neg.ro Boy,
About fifteen years of aa;c, his (even years yet
to serve ; he is an excellent hc.tfc fervautr, ailive
andheal'.hy. Enquire of the I'rir.trr.
December 2. div/
By John Fen no, N°- ii 9 Cbefmit Street.
Fresh ilaifins.
A Small cargo, just arrived, and now landing
at Chefnut street wharf, from the fioop Ya
rico, capt. Halirell, confining of Kegs, B' j kcs :;nd
Jar*. A few Jars of excellent G-jpes, mi) Aelnf
of foft (helled Almonds,—Apply to 'he Mas'ieK
on board, or to
Jos. A*fhony& ffo-Sv
r>tcemker ' ,'s?t "
- PIHfSP N & fc-O.'
have for sa/.e~
At tfieir Stores on Walnut street Wharf,
Havannah Sugars,, -white amibrowi
25 hhdsj Jamaica ' do.
- 3070 pieces of Narikeeni
Imperial Tea, in quarters(ind eighths of chefls
Quichfilver in tubs
Madeira AVine in pipes hogiheads
l'enerifle Wine in pipes
Old led Port Wine in hogsheads
Sail Canvaft, assorted, No. I to 8
8 cases of Manch.cftcr Goods,coafifling of, Dimities,
Muflintts, Ginghams,Thickfetts, Corduroys, &c.
ioq crates Queens' Ware, aiTorted
Nails, a&brtcd '
Black quart Bottles
Yellow OcTe in cases
A quantity ps writing Slates Hate Ink Stands, &c.
rco quarter ca.'ks Gun Powder
Tn Love alfufor SALE or CHARTER, 1
TkeJhip QiOLLY, burthen 34,0 tons, a
good veflel, aad completely fitted.
The brig AMAZON, burthen 1300 bar
rels, may be ready for feain a few days.
The whole of the above veffcls to be seen at
Walmit street Wharf. §. nan- 1~.
A per ion well acquainted with
tl* theory and
mairv uimlelt' audothers,
woirtd he g|»d to be r)thcr as an agent
or factor; or in palling books ; (tatinjj uol'ettled
accounts ; ox in executing any kind ot writ
ing, in French er EngliAu
A note addreilcd to J. A. and left at this office,
will be punitually attended te.
novembex 30. jawtf
FOR SALE, at
Wm. Young's Book Store,
No. 5», Second street, the corner of Chefnut street,
REPORT »t the Committee of the House of
Reprefentati res of the United States, appoint
ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
against WILLIAM BLOUNT, a Senator of the
United States, impeached of high crimes and mis
demeanors, made in pursuance of a resolution of
the House of Representatives, authorizing the said
Committee to Ct during the recess of Congress, and
ioflrn&ing them " to enquire, and, by all lawful
" means, to discover the whole nature and extent
" of the offence whereof the said William Blount
" Hands impeache..', who are the parties and
" aflociates therein."
Printt/i. by order (ff the Htufe of Reprejentatives.
Decsmber 18. §
James C. ?S? Samuel W. Fisher,
AT THEIR STORE,
NOJI3, corner of Arch and Froit streets,
HAri roe she,
Cotton and worded Hofie>y in trunk*, aiTorted
A fiew bales red, white, and yellow Flannels
Ditto futty romall Handkerchiefs
Ditto Pullicat (ilk ditto
Ditto Pondicfesrry apd Madrafs ditto
Ditto Gurrahs
Bengal black TaSetics
4000 pieces Nankeens, ar.d
Few cnells bed Hyson Tea
Alfa —1500 boxes liefl London Window Glass,
from 8 by 6, to 19 by 14 —aod 15 hhds. Glass
Ware, alforted, which they will dispose of cheaper
than any in the cityl
novembcr 98. .lawtf
— . ——» —'- r ' —!»*> » r.** • .
Landing this day,
From on board the schooner Two Friends, Pan
ic! Crawley, Master,
8c hhds. and 1 J amaica ROM,
Ii pipes > J
• FOR SALE BY
George Latimer y Sou.
tttveufber q. §
James Richard Smith,
TAKE liberty of informing their friends
and the public, that they hare removed their
store to No. 54, S*utb Frwt jlriet, i\cxt d«©r to Re
ward Fox'» Au£Ucji tU)ojn, where they have »t
this time for faie,a large aud general aflbrttnent of
European & Eajl India Goods,
Many of whidh are just imported in the Clothier,
Wiltiam Pcnn, &». Sec.
OA. ij. 6
* NOW LANDING,
At South-street Wharf,
The Cargo of tlx Ship Concord,
Captain Thomp/on, from Bitovia.
About jpo tons fir ft quality Java Coffee (jhe
whole having b4fR fele&ed)
80 tons Java Sugar, in caniA«rt and bags
10 legurcs of old Arrack
Nutmegs, Mace and Cloves
FOR CALE BT
PETER BLIGHT.
Who also offers Far Sale,
Just landed from ship Amity, from Jatrteica.
10s hhds. Jamaica Sugar, and
170 do. do. Rum. . (
novembor 2.3. d6w
Canal Lottery —No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, the zctli
mit. Fickcts for Sak in this Lottery, at
Seven Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURN'S Lottery
and Brokers OfUqe, No. South Second-ftreet —
Tickets iu the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Tm
Dollar!, where check hooks are kept lor register
ing and examining in these, the City fff Walhing
ton, No.II. and Paterfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may be had in mod of the Lotte
ries authorised by law 111 any of 'the States of the
Union.
,N. B. Hie bufinefTOf aBiioKRR, in buying aud
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securitks,
difecunthg Bills and . Notes of Hand, sale ef
Lands, Houses, &.C. &c. will be du4y Attended to,
by Wm. BLACKBURN.
rroemhcyi 15. V
The History of Pennsylvania,
CY ROBE.RT PROUD,
Tg now in thai press., and will be published,
A with all conveniept expedition, by Zach A
RIAH Paulson, jun. No. 80, C|iefnut-ftreet,
PliiladelphVa, where fubferiptions will continue
to be received, and at the Phibdc pliia Library,
according to the printed propoi;.h, until the
work is ready for thefubfcriberi.
July JS. ' MWtf
of North America.
TKE Stockholder'are hereby notified, that an
.led ion for twelve DireOtors, for the eufuing year,
will be held at the Bank on AioDiiay, the Bth of
January at tea o'clocl.
-^i :ciIARD WELLS - C fr*r
yt. , dr3ifiT
'Delaware antl bchuylkiH Canal.
: TMtt .■;'/.*.■■<en.,i^^..nj. | i | t ; y( s i )( .
. ele<3.jon for l'tcfijcnt and Managers, for the ettfu
year, will tre held at the company's office, en
the fir ft MoiSday in January next, at 10 o'clock, a.m.
WM. MOORE SMITH, Sei'ry,
December Xfr mw&fttllmj
Schuylkill and huiquehanna Canal.
THE Stockholders are hereby notjfied, that the
eleAirin for and Managers for the ensu
ing year, will be held at the company's office, on
tl*- firft Mondaf in January at 10 o'ejuck,
, a. m. Dec, ii. mw&fttftmf
Penniyivariia Population Cem
pany.
THE Shareholders are hereby notified, thr.t .an.
Eli.flion of Officers for the ensuing year, wjß be
held at the Company's office, no. 53, nqrth Fourth
street, on Wednesday, the loth day of January
next, at 11 o'clock.
Oy order <r the Board,
SOL. MARACHE, Sec'ry.
Daceml-er 16 eodtiothj
Insurance Company ps North
America.
THE Stockholders act hereby informed, that a
stated meeting of the Company will be held at
their office on the ninth d?.y of January next (be
ing tke ftcond Tuesday in the month) for the Sec
tion of twenty-fivtDnt&or»fortk«crfiuqg year.
*.UfcN.-HA£ABD, Sec'ry.
December 14. th&tntgthT
Philadetphi2undLancalierl\irn
pike Company.
THE Stocldiolders are hereby notified, that the
annual Ele&ion for Officers far the enfuipg
yeir.will be held at the Company's Office in Phila
delphia, on the second Monday in January next, at
I® o*cl«ck, a. m. Wm. GOVETT, See'ry.
December 7. ats m&wtyj
Insurance Company of North
America.
K Meeting of the Stockholders is to he held, a
greeably to adjournment, at the Company's oflice,
oa the firft Monday in January next, at n o'clock,
a.m. EBEN. HAZARD, Sec'ry.
December 14. th&mtillj
Insurance Company
OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, that an
Elaiftien for thirteen Diredora to serve for
one year, will be heid at the company's Office, 011
Monday, the eighth day of January next, at u
e'clocjt.
SAM. W. FISHER, Sec'ry.
December 14. dtßthj
A Fifty Dollar Bank Note,
Of the Bank of the United States, was loft ou Sa
turday l*ft, between the Bank of the United Btate»
and the Horf; market —If an honest perfen has
found it, and will leave it with the Printer hereof;
they (hall be rewarded.
Decembar 11. eo^gt
NOTICE.
To holders of JAMBS GREENLEAFs
and EDI'/ARP FOX's Engagements
IN confequcnce of many having been prevent-?
Ed, from late unavoidable circutnlljnces from
obtaining their Certificates, agreeablefo former
notice. The Truffees now inform them,-they
are ready toiflue rhe feme to those who may ap
ply within fiptydays, »t N T p. 8 Chefnut Stt'ot,
and those who do not, will be confnlfrcd ii re-
Jinquiftiinj: tjie'f on the
provnjcd for tjieir paysnejj.
HENRY PRATT,
TfIC MAJ W. FRANCIS.
JOHN MIU.ER, JUN.
JOHN ASHLEY,
JACOJB BAKER.
DecffWber 15. dfcet
For Sale by the Subfcrihcrs,
Prime Rice in tuhole and haff tierce/
Bautdeaux Brandy
Tw ifli Wine
Mclajis
Georgia end Carolina Indigo
Ravens Dad aid one bogjhead if paj'Jt
brujhts.
N. Isf J. Eraser.
No. J5, Sent/} Front Street.
Nov. 7- dim
MUSIC.
J. L. LENZ,
Teacher ol Vocsl and inflrumental MuDc,
RETURNS his Cncerc thanks to the l.adies and
Cent lemon, from whom he received a very
Kberal encouragement since his residence in this ci
ty , and refpeilfully informs his friends and the pub
lie generally, that, in consequence of the request
of some of his friends, he has opened a Musical
School at hishoufa in Syrmce Street No 174, where
he will teach on the Piano forte, Violin &<;. &c.—
He deems it \innecefTary to enlarge upon the nd
vantages the learner will derive from jjn inftituti
on of this kind; he will only fay, that attention
and eeil are much e*ait«d in an affsmbly, where
numberi are in pursuit of the fame objeit. His
arrangement is such, that an iuterferepce of the
the different fcxos will be cvqided. Those Ladies
and Gentlemen who cannot make it convenient to
attend at his school, he will wait upon at their
houses. Applications will be thankfully receiv
ed at.hit house, where and further parti
culate may be known.
Dec. 7. *iweod
Alphabetical Lift of Duties,
Payable by law on all Goods, Wares, aud Mer
chandize, imported into the United States—latcil
edition, to be fo)d by JOHN ORMROD, no. 41,
Chefnut street. Dac. 16 -~d
STOLEN
Out of the fubfcribct's office a large blue I
cloth cloak, half worn. The intideof the Collar
is faced partly with scarlet velvet partly
with scarlet cloth, and it has a silver hook
and chain 33 a fafteniisg. fuitoble reward
will be paid for rciloring it.
WILLIAM MEREDITH
No, J r i Soyth 3d Street,
Dec. 1 > d I w
\
TO BE LET,
And po£ftfli<vi given the iA January,
The House No. 107, Arch-fireet,
N»ar the corner of Third Stroct.—For i'uriher
particulars, emjuire asabove, cr at No. 28, Vina
'Street.
December 27 <),f
Offitrcof Insurance Company
ior Proprietor* ef Stock, roade.a^re e ab!y to th«
&& of incorporation, a general meeting of the
requdlcd on Wctfcu 1-
«tfy, the 3d January r.ext, at 11 o'clock, at tT.e
Oltice of the Company
SAM. W. FISHER, Sec'ry.
Dfceiqbrr a 6. dtjdJ
Hylon and Young Hyson Tea.
A few theft? of excellent ouality, For cor
ner of Second and Hna streets.
December 16. eot f
deleft Subscription Ralls.
NEW ASSEMBLY ROOM, '
South Fourth street, between Chefnut ani Walnti}
I'.rccts.
MR. FRANCIS refpcflfully informs the fubferi
b(rs to the abev. UalL;, that the f u -ft W ,U b Q
Oil Tucfjay, the ;d of January, 1798.
A few nettles tb the SeletH Subscription Ball*
be -touOea/by application to Mr. Francis, no.
jo, ppr:h Eighth (li«t.
. rcin»»o( fubi. riptjoa—each fubfejiber to pay
fixe L>oiUrs, winch entitles him to a Gentleman's
1 lcket, and cards ol aJuulljon for two l.adies, to
each of the four Bails—The Balis to be held everv.
other Ti/cfilviy. *
ibe number of fubferibem to be limited ta forty,
Sublcribcrs.' Tickets will be ready for delivery
011 Suiurcky the inft.
Mr. Siobo*! <Uy» of teaching for hisyoimg
pupils «re Tk&rfdays and Satuidayg from 3 o'clock
w tie alteruocn'tiii 6, and from 6 till 9 for thofc
oi a more advanced agr. Vrivate tuition cither «,%
. tfec AlJcmfcty Rooin> or at his Houi'e No. 7<9
North Eight Stre^f.
N. B. Due notice will be given of Mr. Francis's
second pra&ifing Ball.
D<*. 26. dudj
NOW LANDING,
From on board the fliip Farmer, lying at Harper's
Wharf,
Claret in hhds.
Ditto in cases
Sauterne Wine ill do.
Fo/ Sale, apply to
John Whitejides W Co.
No. 138, Macket-ftreet,
Also, on hand,
Bourdeaui Brandy in pipe»
Fine old Antigua Rum
A few cases of Claret, of a fupericr quality,
november 19.
Knglilh Grammar,
The fee and edition, -withiimprovement,t t,
\ DAPTEP to.the different classes of iearners 5
JT\. with an appendix, containing rules and ob*
fervations for afTifling the more advanced ftudpnts
to write with perspicuity and accuracy,
By LINDLEY MURRAY.
" This is a publication of much merit, and fully
anfwets the profeffions in the Title-. '] he appen
dix contains iomc of the best rules for Writing e-
and \rtthFoprf«T. that wewcolleftu
have ften."
Monthly Review, July 1796.
" Thl» Gratsmar is, on many accounts entitled
to commendatory nrtice. its materials have been 1
carefully and judiciously Itilt'iflcd j its arjangemept
is <liftins and well adaptad to the purpefe ol in.
UruSion and its exprefiion is simple, pcrfpicuous
and accurate, Act"
&«• the chprafler at Urge in the Analytical
Rt-Vuiu, July 1796.
JEnglifh Exerciies,
Adapted to the Grammar lately publilhed by
Murray, confining of excnvplijlicatibxi of
the parts of speech, in!ljr.ce»gf falfe orthography,
violations of the rules of defers 111 punc
tuation, and violations of the rules refpe&ing
perspicuity and accuracy, designed f»r the benefit
oi private learners, as well as for theufe of i'choot,
v \V« have been much pjeafed with the petufai
of these E*ercifes. 'I hey occupy with dillinguifh. .
ed excellence a most important place in the fciencc
of the Englifti langu-age; and as such, we can
warmly recommend them to the Teachers of
Sihauis, as well ns to aUthofe who are desirous of
attilnirg correclnefi and preciuop in their r.atiya
tongue. *
Monthly Review, Jnly 1797,
The above Books are forfale at Jusurn James
Groksuanrs book ft ore, No. 87, Market ftrect.
December I. 3Uw2w.
For Sale, by the Package,"
For rash, or good notes at fifty or jiinetyfUy.j,
viz.
sook and Jaconet Muslins plain")
flijpes, and Checks |
do. do. Tamboured )■ ■'"''tf'' '>
do. Ladies handkpreliiot's, | Packages,
gentlemen's nej:k do. J
Jaconet chintz jnuflin for home and the Weft
India market, Pullicote and lipen handkerchiefs,
for do. da printed do. do. common purple and
chintz (h.iwls.
The aljQve goods entitled to drawback on ex
portation. Also a few scotch cpmtw icks aud an
afTortm?nt of muslin by the piece.
The whole of the above heing> a consignment
from thp manufatSurers in Britain.
To be seen at William Blackburn's
Office, ]Jfc. 64, Sonth Second Street.
ajwtf.
This Day is Publifked, >
BY MelL Dobfoii, Carey, Campbell, Rjc and th»
cithei Book fellers,
Price One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
Elegantly printed on IVuve paper, and Hoi.
prejjed,
Bv John TJicropfon,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
he Cpnftitutions
of ths feversl States with ench other, and with
tint of the ynited States: exhibiting in Tables
the prominent features of caeh Constitution, and
cUQingtog-'ther their (noft important provKon*
under the fevcral heads of administration ; with
Notes andObfervations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of sr,uth-Cure/in"ir,
L L. D. and member of the Congreii of the
TtMtfd States.
Dedicated to tha People of th« United States,
N. B. A few Copies printed on an inferior pa
per, at 3-4ths«l' a jciliaf.
[Vol 'JMB XII .t tt* —t —ti-tt t —Tim tn mm mi m* H i
%t>z
PHILADELPHIA,
FRIDAY FVJ2NING, fiF.CBMHEIt 19.
. „ C ,0 N G R E S S.
MOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Debate on a motion to re-Confjer the qnefl'tori far
-pofpolling the conjideration of 11 Bill fuppfe
tiientary to an Afl for preventing rertaifi
c rimes againjl the United Slatei, paJJ'ed 'June
i 1 • 794' thefirft Monday in February.
( Concluded from yijlerdaf' s Gazette,)
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 26?
Mr.* Sewall was in favour of re-consider
ing flie queflion ; not that he wished the
business crowded upon the honfj ; he had
no objection to a fortnight, or longer, be
ing given. theij observations
on this fubjeit, had recurred to the proceed
ings of last Congress, which had notliing to
do wiilftheprefent question, and argued as
if t here urere a law forbidding merchants to
Krm their veflels ; whereas there was no
filch thing, because he never could confidpr
executive diredtions as law. ' It was true
tfie ptfefident of the United States had for
bidden the arming of veflels, except for the
P. a It-India and African trade ; but there
were no regulations to prevent impolitions
. in this refpedt, and nothing was more easy
than for vr.Tels to clear out for those places,
and to go to others, and if they did so, they
were fubjeii at present to no forfeiture. It
Was proper, therefore, that Congress should
come to some determination on the fubjeit,
and fay whether merchants had a right to
arm, or not, and under what reftri&ions ;
as, at pref?nt, the whole burthen was im
properly thrown npon the Prcfideht. Wbilft
t:ie bgfinefs remained upon its present foat
•'ng, circumstances might arise which would
be very unpltafant. For inflanee, if a mer
rhant were to sue a ccflledtor for carrying
into effect the orders "of the executive, it
Would be itapoflibltf" for arfy to found
a decision upon those orders. Nothing,
' Mr. S. said, could be gathered from the
proceedings of last Congress, as the present
bill wan intended merely to regulate a right
ivhich the merchants already pofleffed of
artning their vefitls, so as to prevent hostile
•aggreflions. There was nothing in this
n. eafu)-e, be said, which could give offence
to our mfifers, even if we were colonics of
Trance, of of Great-Britain. AH that was
intended was a defence against pirates,
whom no country would own ; for, if a
restitution was asked for, on account oflof
fes fnftaitjed by them, it would be said by
Trance or Great-Britain, " we know them
" not, you ougf t to defend yourfelvcs against
them." As to the obfervatiot) of the gen
tleman from Virginia, that our merchants
would continue to acquiesce in the present
state Of thing-, it might be so ; but he
thought they had* a just claim upon the
United States. He believed they were gen
erally unwilling to arm, except under the
- regulations of the United States ; but they
cught not to take advantage of this acqui
efccnce, and fay to them, without concern,
" you should go to sea and run your rifles as
usual," Under these disadvantages, he did
not think they should. As to our present
fituatifln with refpedt to France, he did not
think it ought to be alluded to, as the pro
. posed regulations,' as had before been ob
served, were not intended to operate against
thern, or any other nation, but against the
piracies committed by order of Vi&er
Hugues, or any other marauder, who may
set up his authority in that quarter of the
world. So desirous were the merchants of
having a defence against this description of
veflels, that since they could not carry out
real guns, they have lately resorted to the
carrying of wooden guns, that they might at
least have the appearance of defence upon
their veflels. lie thought to be obliged to
have recourse to this practice, was derogato
ry to the honour of the nation.
Mr. Dana said, it was not very liberal to
ascribe to the committee who reported this
bill, motives which they themselves did not
avow. If he did not mistake the gentleman
from Virginia (Mr. Nicholas) he had said
that this bill was calculated to mislead the
paflions of our citizens, and prepare them
for war. The committee had not stated a- I
ny thing of this kind. Th<y had stated an
evil to exist, and proposed a remedy. The
depredations which had been committed up
on our commerce by pirates, unauthorized
by any government, were notorious; and
that we had a right to defend ourselves a
gainst them, was admitted on all hands ;
but there was a neceflity for the interfer
ence of Congress in the business, and, for
this purpose, the present bill was reported.
The measures proposed had been spoken of
as measures ofhoftility ; they were 110 fueh
thing ; he would not adopt any meafureo
now, that he would not adopt in a state of
profound peace, and the present bill was no
more than a part of our general system for
the regulation of the conduft of our mer
chants. Mr. D. alluded to the order which
had been iffhed by the late and present Pre
sident in relation to the fubjeft of arming,
and Slewed the neceflity there was for an in- j
tcrference of Congress. He did not think i
this question was decided the last fffllon. — j ,
But it was laid, that this fubjeft woujd in- •
terfere with the negociat ns now carrying
oil with the French republic. Thisrwas a
Jlrange argument indeed. What were the ! ,
principles laid down by France with refpeft ] (
to this country. They fay " they will res- j ,
pe6t treaties, when it is their interest to do ■ ,
so." He, therefore, supposed it would be J J
as much for the interest of France to be at j
peace with us, if our veflels were ,armed, as j j
if they were not. Thci,e was another prin- j
ciple. They will " r<*fpedt our rights, when j
we know how to make them refpe&ed."— (
Could this regulation, therefore,weaken that ,
refpedt ? He thought not. To poll pone - .
j the e'lefti.jtlj from fueh a motive, wjjuld be
h.tim mating. It wanld be faying,' we dare
n;.t take any measures of defence against the
marauders on our coail, }<ft we fhoiild give
offence to a foreign power. He hoped they
should not be thus influenced.
■it r ' Thatcher said,. he did not rife to in
j voke th-genius of America, or any other
genius. He did not believe is any genii.
' He wished to attention of th;-noufe
■ to trie queilion, which he thought they had
1 forgotten.; for he belle vedy any one coming
into the fioufe, in the course of the debate,
might have guefled for forty years and not
1 found it out. The queftipn was, whether
' the former vote should be re-considered. It
■ was immaterial whether a pa£[ion for France
or any other itrong paSion, had overruled
reason and influenced the vote. It was fttf
ficient that .two or three persons had stated
, themselves as ni.(taken in their vote, to wish
j- -the queih'on to be r'e-confidered. If this
were the queflion, he did not fee what they
had to 80 with the war in Europe, or with
the' negociations carrying on Wtth France ;
but, as it had been the practice to abandon
the questiOn, and raise other fubjefts, he
( would take the liberty of following the ex
( ample which had been vfet, by remarking
• upon what had been said. [The Speaker
j fignified to Mr. T. that, in doing so, he
> would be out of order, and having exprefT
-1 ed his intention, the deviation could not be
, admitted.] Mr. T. however, continued to
-make some observations on what had fallen
from the gentleman from N. Carolina (Mr.
M'Dowell) as to thepropofed mcafure hav
ing effeft upon the negotiation. This, he
shewed, to' be next to impolfible, as we were
J expefting to hear from our tlegociators ev
ery day, and they could not hear of the
| proceedings of congress on this ftibjedt for
two months to come. The question, said
be, 13 to arm against rovers and pirates, and
surely gentlemen would not fay that the
Terrible Republic were a set of rovers and
pirates ; but they must fay so, if they said
this bill was against them. He believed
frauce refpe'fted itfelf too much to fay this
bill was intended against her. The gentle
man frtjm Virginia»( Mr. Nicholas) had said
there was no change irt the fltuation of
things since last feflion ; but he believed
there was this change, as it refpe&ed com
merce ; we were now mere allured than e
vcr, that the chief of the depredations com
mitted upon our commerce were committed
by unauthorized marauders. M. T. con
cluded with reading an extrail from the
President's speech, as conveying his fanti
mcnts with r*fpecl to the difadjufted affairs
of Europe, the general want of morality,
and religion, and the conftquent uncertain
ty of permanent peace.
Mr. Baldwin said, if the original question
had now been whether the cofifiJeration of
this fubje£t should be postponed for three
or four weeks, he should have felt himfelf
indifferent as to the ifTue. But it was with
regret he saw the question brought back for
conGdcration. The gentleman last up had
spoken of three gentlemen having been mis
taken, and wishing to change their votes.
He heard but of one, as the gentleman who
seconded the motio'n, did it only that the
mover might have an .opportunity of voting
as he wished. He did not think, therefore,
that this was a fufficient ground for recon
sideration of the vote which had been tak
en. When the house voted upon a ques
tion, without argument, it must be fuppo
led they voted from conviction. A mo
tion for the reconsidering of a fubjcfl was
not a favorite motion ; since a repetition of
such iViotioos would make it next to impos
sible to proceed with the public bufiuefs.
The queflion of arming or not arming, he
said, would yet come before them in a va
riety of shapes, before the bill could be ma
tured, that there was no neceflity of arrest
ing it in its present stage. He himfelf ex
pected that when the firft Monday in Feb
ruary moved, some of the committee
who reported the bill, would have propo
sed a ihorter time ; but, when they did not
he supposed they thus argued, " We have
considered the fubjeft for four or fiveweeks;
we will give other gentlementhe fame time."
And he believed, if they so judged, it was
the lieft course which could-he taken ; for
the longer time there was "given frtr confid
ing and maturing the fubjedt, the greater
probability there would be of coming to a
speedy ani proper decifior..
Mr. J. Williams was in favour of re-con
fideringthe vote. The a£t of 1794, he said
had been differently construed, and the soon
er congress determined the true eonftruftion
the better. To put off the fubje£t for five
weeks, would occasion considerable loss to
the merchants, as they did not know what
event's might arise. If the fubjedt was- not
adted upon till the firft Monday in February
it would be the firft of March before the a£t
was pafied, and the firft of April before it
could be known at the extreme parts of the
union. He himfelf was undetermined whe
ther it was right to authorize merchants to
arm or not, but he did not wish the question
so long postponed, he wished to have it dif
euffed.
Mr. N. Smith said, as the reasons which
influenced his vote, had not been stated by
any other member, he would take the liber
ty of Hating them. He should vote against
the re-consideration, though he agreed with
gentlemen who were in favour of the bill.
He thought the ftieafure a perfectly neiftral
one, and such as no foreign nation had a
right to take Umbrage at ; but those gen
tlemen must agree with him, that it was
not likely the meaftire would be silently a
dopted, or without a lengthy 3nd full dis
cussion. It was idle to fay, that becaufc
the measure was only intended to operate a
gainst piiates, there was no occasion to in
troduce any Foreign nation into the difluf
fion. It was certain, that whenever the
fubjt£t was difcufled, our situation with re
fpedt tb Foreign powers, wou'd certainly
form a part of the debate, and this it was he
dreaded. He believed it might do much
mifehief. - He, therefore, differed with those
gentlemen who wished »o get into the dif.
j cuilion, ami who did not frern to want an
immediate deeifion ; he firoeld have no ob
jection to the decision, but, he wished, for
I the present, to avoid th* discussion. Before
j ifhV Teffinrf flofed, he should think it ne'cef
l-fery to decide upon a meaftlre of this kind;
but he wiflied to fee further before the busi
ness was entered upon: he was, therefore,
against ie,confide ring queftion.
' Mr. Otis replied to foaie remarks which
had beep made upon what fell from Kirn,
and juftififd what lie had before said, and
the warmth which he felt on <he occaficn, as
natural. He concluded by observing, that
it was necessary to cheer th.£ spirits of the
•people by a measure of this kind ; to raise
the expectations of the merchants, and not
to drive" commerce, which came mourning
into that Honfe,' to defpa'ir; but if their
hands were to be tied, and 110 proteftion was
.to he given to trade,»the .-merchants fliould
he their determination as soon as
possible ; and told that> though they draw
frclm tb<m millions of dollars a year in sup
port of the revenue, yet they will not attend
to their grievances until within a few weeks
of the close of the session, when, perhaps,
fuGcient time will r.cty remain to carry any
meafuYe which may be proposed, into a
law.
Mr. Pinckney faiJ, as he was not a'mem
ber of the' House during the last session, he
hoped he ftiould be.excused in wiihing to
enter into an earlier difctiffion of this quefti
.on than other gentlemen seemed to wi(h.—
-Hit though he was not in the Houfc at
the last session, he had observed the proceed
ings of It; and though fomc of the motions
for arming were negatived, there were others
of a defenfive nature agreed to; such as the
holding in readiness Bo,oco militia, the ap
propriation for repairing the forts and har
bours, See. which were not thought at the
-time, to be at all offenfive to any Foreign
nation; and he was of opinion with those
gentlemen .who believed that a law authoriz
ing our merchant* to arm their vessels, could
'ntft afcrd any Foreign nation just cause of
offtHQte. He was nqt surprised that his
colleague (Mr. Harper) should be of a dif
ferent opinion, becaufc he did not think 'so
favourably of that nation, as many other
gentlemen did ; but he was surprised tp heqr
gentlemen who thought more favourably of
nation, confiderthe measure as operat
ing wholly against them. Surely means of
felt-defence could not be means of offence.
Nor could gentlemen fay that the French
nation was the only nation which committed
offences upon our trade. He had heard it
said that another nation had lately captured
an cquah a greater number of our
vtfiels, than they had done. Bcfides, as
the measure was intended more against un
lawful plunderers, than regular Seizures, he
could not conceive how it could be suppos
ed to give offence to arty particular nation,
or affeft any existing nrgociation. The on
ly point to be determined, then, was when
the hill should be committed. He thought
the gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Nicho
las) had carried his idea too far, when he
said, because this country-waff not prepared
for war, they ought not to discuss this ques
tion. He thought there wero certain time's
when every free nation aught to be prepar
ed for war. He meant Aylien the measure
of injuries had arrived at such a pitch, that
it could not be Iqnger borne. In such a cafe
a nationought to meet the calamities of war,
rather than to submit to farther oppressions.
If the proposed measure, therefore, us
in a better state for war, it .was a recommen
dation of it, as Strength, 3nd not Weakncfi,
was the best preservative against war ; as, if
a [people were prepared for war, nations
would be careful how they insulted them.
He wished, therefore, to put this country
into that finuation as soon as possible. To
poftpono the question so long a time as had
been would be a very unusual
measure. ft would look like a wish to get
rid of it altogether. «Whatever might be
the issue of the negociation, he said, we
ought to put ourselves in fopte posture of
defence for our trade ; for, whether there
were peace or war in Europe, there could
be no objection to the arming of our mer
chantmen in the way proposed. He hoped
therefore, the discussion would not be post
poned longer than the second Monday in
January.
Mr. Allen observed, that it had. been af
fei lid that there had bcen up ehange in dot
political fituatiou since the last session.
There was one, be said. It could not then
be determined whether the decree of th? 2d
of Martfb was really genuine, or whether
rhe letter of Merlig to our Consul was real
ly authorized by th« Government of that
country: Now the fafts could not be doub
ted.— Mr. A. said, it had beeu injimated
that the friends of this measure, would be
glad to fruftrate the with
France. H? did not believe . any such in-
in the House. The
poftponeoftin proposed, inftcad of being
four wdeks,. as it had been called, lie said
would be 41 days.
Mr. Harper again explained the reasons
ofhjk.vote. H# differed froai the gentle
man last up with'refpeft to the reality of pa
pers he mentioned. He believed they were
last; session generally believed to be genuine.
Mr. S. Smith said, h?d he beeu present
when the former vote was taken, he should
have besn oppofad to t(\e discussion being
postponed to so diilant 4 day.; but as the
hoi;fe had-come to decision on the fubjeft,
he flibukl yPte against tha. qiieftion's being
recoo'tideretL- Hedi-j not consider the bill
before (hem giving the merchants the pri
vilege to arir. their vessels, but as -rertriftiog
vefTels armed from dojng mifchief.
He insisted upon it merchants had a right
to arm by law, notwithftandiug the Procla- '
mation of the President, which he was bold ,
to fay, he considered as illega l .
The question for a re-confiderati«n of the
former vote, (which was carried 40 to 37,)
was negatived 44 to 38.
THURSDAY DSCEMBER 3s.
The Speiker l?.id before the honfe a letter
auJ report from the secretary of the 'fVea
fury, in purftuuce of a refoluiion of the
houfe of the 22(3 inft. relative to the claim
of General Kofciufko. The report ftateo,
that the accounts of the general were fet
tled at the Treasury in 1784, when a cer
tificate wa3 ifTucd to liimfor 12,280 dollars
and 49*90ths, bearing an interest of 6 per
cent from the ift January, 1784, which
wcis stipulated by a refoKition in February
following, in common wish the interest due
to all the foreign bfttctt's, to 6e paid annu
.ally at Paris ;
were granted by Congress to difeharge the
principal andintrrellof thofedebts, at which
time it was supposed that all the officers had
received their intfreft to the !ft January,
1789; but it now appeals by the banker's
account at Paris, that rjp'iniereft had been
received by General J£ufciuflco for four
years, viz. from 1785 to Sufficient
funds to pay the interest from 1789 to '92,
were in 1752 placed m Amsterdam, fubjefl
to the disposal cff our minilterat Paris, that
by his direction a bill for theamount was re
mitted to Mr. Piackrtey, in London ; but
pnrfuant to the dire&ion of general Kofci
ufko, Mr. P. wrote to tbe bankers at Am
sterdam to remit the amount to Leipfic, or
Dresden. Whether this request was com
plied with, is not kuovvn ; general Kofei
ufko fays'he neverrcceived it : it therefore
lay fubjeft to his disposal at Amsterdam,
Leipfic or Dresden. iu September
1792, a notification was publiihed, that
provision had been made for paying the prin
cipal of the debt due to foreign officers, on
application at the Treasury, after the 15th
of O&ober following, and that the interest
upon their demands would cease after the
last day of.JDecember in that year. That
though the certificate ifTued to the general,
is dated by him to have been loft or destroy
ed, yet the powers of the officers of the
Treasury are competent to the payment of
12,280 dollars, 34 cents, the principal, and
2 >9+7 dollars, 33 cents iotereft, for the
years /rom 1785 to 1788,- on receiving a
bond of indemnification from the general ;
but that they cadnot adv*n£e the interest
firppofed to have beeir tranfrtiitted to Leip
fic or Dresden, tlipugh payment will be
immediately made for any sum which may
be hereafter drawn, and credited to the U
nited States at Amsterdam ; nor is it in
the power, of the treasury to allow any in
terest 911 the said principal, fince 1 the iftof
January 1793.
On motion of Mr. Dawfon; this report
was referred to a co mmittee of the whole
for Monday. *
Mr. Varnum presented the petition of
M. Landais] a French gentleman who serv
ed the United States at sea, during the
war, praying for a settlement of a balance,
which he Bates to be due to him defer
red to the committee of claims.
Mr. W. Claiborne moved for the order
of the day on the report upon the remon
ftrjnce and petition of the Legislature of
TenncfTee.
Mr. Coit hoped the fubjeft might be de-'
ferred till to-morrow, as there 'was a faft
referred to in the report, which he wi filed
to liaye fornc information upon.
Upon the question being Rut,-the motion
was, however carried, and the house ac
cordingly resolved itfelf into a committee of
the whole on the fubjeft, "Mr. Kittera in
the chair, when the. following report of the
committee, *vas read :
" That, on investigating the causes of
complaint contained in the said Remon
strance and Petition, it appears, that ac
cording to the boundary line between the
Cherokee tribe of Indians and the inhabi
tants of the said state, which was extended
by the Comrniffioners of the United States,
pursuant to the treaty of Holfton, in tjie
course of the last Summer, the fcttlements
and habitations of a considerable number .of
citizens of the said state, which heretofore
were supposed to b« on lands to which the
Indians claim was, by that treaty, extin
guished, appear to be within 4he Indian
territory. That those inhabitants had been
induced to believe that the lands which
they occupied were not within the Indian
boundary, in confequen.ee of the late Gov
ernor of the South Werftern Territory hav
ing, in pnrfuance of diredfiyns from the
Executive-os the United States, caused a
temporary line to be extended, by Comrnif
fioners appointed for that By
which line the settlements above mentioned
were included within the lands assigned to
the Territory South Weft of the Ohio
(now the State of Tenneifee.)
" The>committee I/kewife find, that there
are divers other citizens of the said state
who occupy lands, unquestionably within
the Indian a& designated .by the
said treaty, which lands they ppfTefs by vir-'
tue of titles derived from the Hate of N.
Carolina, previous to the cession of that
territory, by the said state, to the general
gbvernmeVit, tine condition of which cession
was, that " all entries made by, or grants «<>
" all and every person or persons whatfo
" ever, agreeable to law, and within the
" limits thereby intended to be ceded to the
" United States, should have the fame force I
" and efftft as if such cession had not been
" made ; and that all and every right of
" occupancy and preemption, and every o
" tlier right, reserved by any act or ass, to
" persons fettled on and occupying lands
" within the limits cf ti>c lands thereby in
" tended to be ceded as afoTrfaiid, should
" continue to be in ful',foh.-e, iri the fame
" manner as if the ceffioli -Md not been
" made, and as conditions upon which'the
" laid lands are ceded tothe Unj.tedStates."
'• The pommittee also are informed, thit
by the operation of the law, palled on the
19th day of May, 1796, for regulating the
intereourfe with the Indian tribes, which
law lias been carried into execution since
the exteniion pfthe last line these citizens of
the finte of Tennessee have been compelled
tip abandon their habitations, and with their
wives and fcheir children vfere, by thelateft
aqcftjlnts from that country, encamped iri
tii* wocds within the Tt-mieflee line.
' " The comti|fcee.thewf'..-?,- «i conf,der
auoti of the premifcs, recwvuncnd, for the
adoption of the house, the following resolu
tion .
" Refolvedi that the sum of
dolhrs be appropriated for'thc
relief of fuc'n citizens of the state of Ten
iiedre as have rights to lands within the
laid fete, by virtue of the cefiion out of
the state of North Carolina, and have made
adtual let dements thereon, and wh® have
been deprived of the possession of the said
lands by the operation of the ad for regula
ting.the intarcourfe with the Indian tribes.
The said sum to be fubje& to the order of
the Prelident of the United States, to be
expended under his direction, either in ex
tinguifiing the Indian claim toMhc above
described lands, in cafe he (hall deem it ex
pedient ta hold a treaty for "that purpose,
or be difpofecfof in such other manner as
he (hall deem best calculated to afford the
persons hereiu described atemporary relief."
Mr. Coit said, the fadl upon which he
wanted information Was that refpedting the
temporary line which was said to have been
run. He wished- to know what evidence the
committee had before them on (his fubje£t.
Mr. Pinckney (the chairman of the fe
,le£t committee) said, that the testimony
which they had received on thfs fubjedt, was
frt>m the member from that diftridt, which
was corroborated by that of a member of
the senate from that state, who said he had
his information from the governor of the
south-western territory himfelf. This cir
cumltance was not particularly noticed in
the application made to the secretary of
war ; only fgeneral information was called'
for, and lie was silent as to this point.
Mr. Coit thought official information
ought to h»e been had.
Mr. W. Claiborne said, he had applied
to the Secretary at war oh this fubjedt, and
received for answer from him, that his gene
ral report to the committee of the Senate
contained all the informatinn proper' to be
communicated; ichen, therefore", he found
this information was not contained in the
report, he supposed i; was fueh as he did
not think proper to communicate. The fadl,
he said, was well known in the state of Ten
nessee, and it wasgenerally received'opin
ion, that the line had been extended,by the
President. He himfelf was in habits of in
timacy with the commissioners, and Ire had
more than once heard the fadt from them.
He believed gentlemen from North-Caroli
na and Virginia were also acquainted with
it. He did not, however, believe the fadt
essential. If it were a truth that there were
citizens in the state of Tennessee who had
been forced to abandon possessions fairly ob
tained from the state of N. Carolina, it was
. fufficient to warrant any measure which
(hould be calculated to afford them imme
diate and adequate relief.
Mr. Pinckney was in h6pes the testimo
ny upon which the committee had adted,
would have proved fatisfa&ory to the gen
tleman from Connedticut, but he feerned to
think they Ought to have had official docu
ments. If that gentleman had attended to
the report of the Secretary of War, he
would have seen that any farther application
by them for information, would have been
improper, as (he Secretary there declared
the business to be " of a nature exclusively
executive 'and that he there gaVe as much
information on the fubjedt as he thought
neceftary. If the evidence upon which tlpe
committee had adted, was not thought fuf
ficient, the house would, of course, call for
fiich other as they might think proper.
Mr.-Macon had no objection to any other
information being obtained. It might be,
however, that the information communicat
ed by the member of tt|e Senate, was offi
cial, gs one of thofegentlemen had been in an
official charadter.
Mr. Pinckney said the member of th«
Senate whom he had alluded to, was Mr.
Jackson.
Mr. Blount had no doubt but the infor
mation required, might be obtained from
the Secretary of' War ; and, if the commit
tee were to rife, he (htfuld make a motion
to that effect. He had himfelf been told
that the line in queftiop was run, by the
commissioners who ran it ; and hi had been
flrewn by a gentleman who attended tht
running of it, the diredtion it t6ok. How
it happened that the Secretary of War had
not mentioned it, Tie was at a fofstcj know.
Mr. Dayton (the Speaker) moved that
the committee rife, in ordfr to obtain the
information required. It appeared to him
that they had been premature in going into
a committee of the whole. He recplledted
something of the line of experiment being
run, and of the Indi<!!» being diffatisfied
with it. He understood also, that in conse
quence of the diffatisfadtion of the Indians,
tfyere was an additional allowance made
to them. Of this, however, he was not ve
ry certain.
Mr. N. Smith hoped the committee
would rife, in order that the information
wanted might be obtained from the Secreta
ry bf War. He did not believe that the
line of experiment was run by the diredtion
of the Executive, because he did not think
the Executive''would dire£t any other line
to be run than . such as was prescribed by
treaty. At the fame time, he would not
be understood to discredit the information
given. Gentlemeu did not fay they knew
the ffc.a tbemfelves, but that it was general
ly uiulerjwd.to.be Ui. There wre'many
things said. to bt uudsrjhod, in that quarter,
-with reipedt to which the people ought to
be undeceived. He believed this to be one
of those things. He did not believe the
Secretary Sf.War had declined giving in
formation as to this point, because it inter
fered; with Executive buiinefs, as it was
merely'to know whether a certain thing had
been done by Executive authority, or not.
The e were many things in the remonstrance
and petition, with which the Executive
conceived the legislature had no.tl)iiig to do;
but, as to the point in question, there could
be no objection to giving the information
required,MS'. HarpJr had no chjfc&ion to the com
mittee's riling for this information, though
he did not want it ; because, he thought
there was fufficient reason for adopting the
resolution. The faiS of the people's being
w'the distressed iituation mentioned in the
report, was a good reason for agreeing -to
it, though it fhoiild appear that the Exec
utive did not give orders for the running of
the temporary line.
Mr. Pinckney had no ohje&ion to the
motion, though he did not think jt necefla
ry. It was clear the line was run by order
of the Governor of the Sotith Western Ter
ritoiy, and whether he had orders from the
Executive to do it, was to him immaterial,
as the people who were in pofleflion of the
Ijnd, supposed, of course, that the Gover
nor was authorised to do what he did.
Mr. Nicholas did not think it material,
in the present question, whether or not, the
Governor had the authority of the United
States for what he did. It could not be
cxpe&ed thatthe" peoplefhould call upon the
Governor to (hew the authority by which
he afted. It was thefame thing to the peo
ple, whether he was or was not, d«ly au
thorized.
Mr. M'Dowell did not think the information
1 eqtlircd would be of any use. There could be no
doubr the line of experiment was run by order
Df the governor, agreeably to the direiSlions of the
txecutive. It was also well known that liauhhbead,
and a party of indians, came down to Philadelphia,
to malic their complaints, wilh refpeft to it, and
that 5.000 dollars had been given to them by way
of farisfaiftion. llle persons who were now dri
ven into the woods, and fuffeting the inclemencits
of the season, had fettled upon the land from
which they were driven, under expreC. TitUs from
the (late of N Carolina, previous to the period 6f
running this line. The only question was, whe
ther the people had a right to fettle where they
had done, and whether the United States had a
right to remove them. He believed the diftrefie*
of people called for immediate relief, and
.thifc juftiee andpotfey required that it fbould be
granted.
Mr. N. Smith thought it was of importance to
know whether a fa&, which had been reported by
the committee, was founded, or not; and th»t. it
would be very wrong to Tend out to the world as
true, a thing which wis not true. But it also ap
peared to him an important faft in the inveftiga
tion of -this fubjetft. If these people had aay
claim upon the United States, it was in confe
rence of the United Stares having led them into
a miilake ; but if others had led them into it, it
was to them ought to look for redress. He
would agree, that whatever the governor of the
South Western Teritory had done, in the line of
his duty, the United States were bound by it; but
the running of this line, except he were ords-ed
to do it, was not a part of his duty, and they
were not, therefore, bound by it. Mr. S. said,
he rose principally to correrSt an alTertion which
had been made, that these persons had a claim up
on (he United States, from having titles to their !
land from the state of N. Carolina. It would be i
found that they did not claim protection on this
ground. There were two descriptions of claims;
one from persons who had a grant from N. Caro
lina; the other from persons who went on to a
spot of ground, bccaufe they believed it to be the
property of the United States, from a certain tem
porary iine which hid been run, and who wero
now, when the permanent line was run, obliged
to remove. The iatte/ had no real claim to the
land they occupied. .
. Mr. Goodrich was in favor of the committeerif. 1
ing, that the wi(hed-for information might be
obtained. Great refpeA was doubtless due to the
testimony of the gentleman from TenneAetJ; but, 1
if it should appear that no orders had been given
by the executive for the runningof-the. temporary
line, it would lhew, that an officer of the govern
ment h*d yiuilaimul 'that -for a faft which was
not so. He, therefore, thought the fa<St ought to
be ascertained.
Mr. W. Claiborne said, he had just seen 3 fen- '
ator who had been so the war department, and
■who informed hmi,he hadfeen the letter of the fe- ;
cretary of war to the governor cf the South Wes
tern Territory, (lire&ing him to run the line of
cij:orimfnt. and also the governor's answer,
wherein he fpoUc of the bulintfs having been done, j
He gave this information, in order to do away the ;
suspicions which gentlemen seemed to have of the
tiuth of the testimony which had been given to
thcfele& coma- itteeon thisfubjed.
The motion for the committee's riling was put
and carried : it rose, and had leave to fit again.
Mr. Blount then proposed a resolution for the
adoption of the house, calling upon the frcretary
of war for such information as he may be pofteffed
of, relative to the running of the temporary line,
which was agretd to.
Mr. Macon presented a petition from several
inhabitants of this city, praying for the liberation
from prison of capt. W. Bell, who is confined at
the suit of the United States, for duties: they
fpeakof him as " a worthy man, a good citizen,
and a valuable member of society," luffuring from
his having had too good an opinion of Mr. Rit
tenhoufe, for whose debt he fu(Ters.—Referred to
the committee of commerce and manufa^ures.
Mr. Spraguc presented a petition from certain
invalid pensioners of New-Hamplhire, praying
that their pensions might commence from the con
clusion of their fervic*, instead of from the time
at which they produced the evidenceof their claim.
Before any order was made upon this petition the
house Adjourned.
NEW-YORK, December 16.
The late banilhmentof certain deputies from
France-is found to be so convenient a mode ps
ridding the republic of men that government
does not like, that one Theremin has undertak
en, before the conftitutiona! circle, to reduce
Ostracism to a system. He has proposed a pio
jeiS in which he has Great Ostracism, Little
Ostracism, and Departmental Oftraeifm.
The rapid and bold flrides of the present gov
ernment to force ill France into fubmifiioa to
their measures, greatly alarm the citizens, and
their measures are openly but cautiously opposed;
But the press is so (hackled that the oppolers of
the Dire&ory dare little more than express their
opinions with modefl doubts and queries.
Never was a people so completely under the
yoke as the French, ia a state called FREt. All
the prefies are under the infpe&iofl and control
of government —all civil and military officers,
not of the party of theDireil«ry,are removed—
in every part of France, tbe milifary are at |
hand to suppress the lealt murmur aguinfl the
l/?.afures of the present government —ful'pedle.l
persons arc every day arretted imprifonad.
A projetf is before tKe French legislature for
reducing the interest of the national debt. The
reporter maintains that it will be an advantage
to the creditors as well as the public ; as it will
enable the state to pay them. It will relieve
the Republic of an intolerable burthen and
give ntrves to the state by enabling it to
meet its engagements, railing the value of its
paper and thus restoring credit.
The whole propofltion is not before us ; but
from the debate we colleift, that the project is,
to reimburse thecrcditov a part of the principal
by delivering to them national property valued
by Creter, the reporter, at one Milliard*? 394
millions. By this redufliun, the nation will li-
Kent? a large portion of their revenue f*otrj the
payment of interest am) eu'ahle tits state to pay
lire rcfnlue i*jth punci u j lity j at the fame rime
(iic- creditor would be put in poffefiion of apart
ef his capital.
Vernier defended the resolution. He dated
the prel'ent interest of the deht to be 380 mil
lions annually, and the ordinary eXpences of
government 300 millions—total 680 millions—
ajfuin, he said, which, in time of peace, would
he beyond the abilities of the republic. He \va»
for the reduction of the debt.
Citizen Lecoz, Conftitutiona! Bishop of Ren
nes, and the President of the council at Paris,
have notified the Legifiature of their taking the
oath of haired to royalty and anarchy and their
attachment to the republic and the conftitutioh
of the third year. On this the Editor of the
Clef du Cabinet remarks,he wilhes others would
do the fame and put in pradlice the ho!y com
raands, Render to Csefar what belongs to him I
and " submit to the powers that he;" asking
at the fame time, farcoftically, " who will dare
to fay tjie French RepubHe is not a fowei ?"■
The French Minift<rs have adopted the roy
al stile of doiit£ bufcjefs. It is announced in
the Paris prints, that th« Minister of war will
give public audiences the 4th and Sth day of
each decade from two o'clock till four. He
will receive the representatives of the people
and General Officers, the id and 6th day of the
decade from noon till two o'clock.
The Minister of Justice gives public audien
ces on the jth and 9th flays from two till four.
The French papers contain ar. anecdote of
General Willot, one of the bamlhed deputies,as
follows. One of his friends consoling him on
his fate,told him that transportation is a penalty
agaiuft \vhi«h he could at any time appeal, and
that peace would set him free. Willot replied,
" ah my friend, c'eft.la mer a boire 1" It is an
ocean to drink—or it is to drink the oceaU.
The Paris Moniteur contains l'ome remarks
inoppofition to the projeifl of exiling all the Bi
bles. It is remarked that the measure will drive
from France a large quantity of specie—and oc
casion great diftreis. Many will felt their goods
and remove to foreign countries, with their, ci
pitals, others will bury their money for fear of
a like fate, from whence will ref'ilt a total loft
of money—confidence will be extinguilhed, and
bufmefs fuffer a total stagnation.
Chenier opposed the baniftiment of th? no
bles in mass, bflt propoftd their exctuiion from
all public offices. He his speech with
these words—" Nobles and not people, ire ne*
ceflary to fopport a monarchy—a peopJe,,and
siot nobles,are yceffary to maintain aßepublir."
A writer in a French paper makes the follow
ingjudieious observations. " Those who drive
to revive public fpirif, by harlh means know not
what they wilh, nor what they do. Hitherto
public spirit has been a sentiment of hatred for
all that hai existed —there ought immediately
to be an attachment to that which now exijls—
the present objedl is to render the re public as
dear, as the old government was odious. Such
a change is not the work of a moment.
The citizens will not be attached to a system
of representation ; will not be reconciled to the
laws, until they have been happy under them.
It would be absurd to cxpedl from them an ar
dent zeal, while their commerce languifees,
while their fields are ill cultivated, while the ri
gor of circumftames (hall force from some their
children, from others their fortunes. But 1
repeat it—this zeal is not neceflary. The ne
cessity of repose is now the general fentiment—
a sentiment which alone can spare the citizens
new druggies and new misfortunes.
The following is ;he answer of Lord Malmef
bury to the note of TreillHard and Bonnier,
pulililhed yeßtriay .
I have transmitted ydur note jhe King.
My powers were'neither illusory M>r limited,
and nothing has been omitted on my part to ac
celerate negociation, whieh has been retard
ed only by the delay of the Directory, and
which is now suspended by their aft only. At
to what regards the renewal of conferences, I
can only refer to mv lift note, in which I have
designated wilh franknefs and precision the only
means which remain for continuing the negoci
ation, observing, that the King could not longer
treat in an enemy's country, without an afl&r
ance of feeing refpefted,in the person of his
plenipotentiary, the ufagct rftablifhed among all
civilized nations, in regard to public ministers,
and especially those who are commiflioned to
labor for the re-cftablilhment of peace."
A new periodical publication is to appear in
Paris, called, the " Father of a Family," the
object of wnich is to form the minds of youth
in a free date."
Terrible bands of robbers, it is said, have ar
rived in Nantzand Bourdeaux from Paris; some
of tham are seized.
Boulay, member of the Council of Five
Hundred, has made a report on the neceflity of
exterminating the nobles from France.
The legillature of France have just publilhed
a lengthy la«r laying certain taxes and imposts.
We observe, among ether articles, that the duty
on tobacco is augmented so na to produce annu
ally, ten-millions—but is not fpccified.
General Buonaparte lias declared, that all the
goods, moveable and immoveable, 6f the order
of Malta, in the Clfalpine republic, are national
property 4 inventories of the fame are to be
made and the sales to commence within a month.
Gen. Berthier has direfled all the generals of
divisions to fetid him lifts of the French officers
who desire to serve with the Cisalpine troops,
and one fourth in the Polish legion, are refer ved
for French officers.
On the 19th of August, a terrible hurricane
in South-Pmffia, laid whole forcils and villages
in ruins—lt levelled more than. ajo,coo trees
and the roads were obfirutfed.
The French privateer le Fnret, took a valua
ble prize, which were driven by an EngliOi fri
gate on the shore, where the frigate fired away
all her powder at the privateer and htr prize,
without efi'edl. After which they got off and
entered Bourdeaux.
Infpruck, OOoher 11.
There are frreat movements in our army of
Italy ; and efforts are making to prevent the
errors of which the enemy profited tlie lad
campaign, and to render the Tyrol inaccefnble.
Upper Rhine, OSober 6.
Major General Prince Francis, or Saxe-Co
bourg, departed this life Sept. i 2, at
age.i 67.
The review of the troops in the camp of
Schwetzingen.is ended,and the troops retired in
their former cantonments.
Mentz, oSober 8.
Although \ve calculate on peace, yet every
proparatioa is made to renew hoflilities. The
principal hospital is removed frem our walls
into Sua'uia—the magazines and chancelleries
of dive.s rfcgiments are to be traiisfer.-ed to AI
chafienbourjr. Our g.irri'on, now. ra.oac
ftronp, is to be aiijj.roent'ed nne A'r l. 11 the
arsenals and woi klhops, the a&ivtty is Jo-.ib'e 1.
Co&lenta, Qfaoler o,
The new magistracy of this city was in
stalled yefterdav. It is composed of five
members, viz. citizens Burckhard, ci-de
cant fenator—Winnen, tanner—Culling,
Simon, son of the comptroller, and Renter,
merchant. The regency will enter upon
their office in two days- It will consist of
the two ancient councillors v»f the eieftnr of
Treves, of two lawyers, and citizen Dalim,
baliff of Burrefiieiro. \
Brnjfels, OcloUf 15.
The advanced guard of tl>c army of the
North, under Bournonville, is arrived at
Nenfs, upon the left bank of the Rfiiue.
The three columns which are t« join flm
army of Germany, pass Guilders aiid.the
Duchy of Clevis.
The Duke of Brunfwick has jufl arrived
at the head-quarters of Observation at Min
den.
%\yt <sasettc*
P HIL ADEL PH IA ,
FRIDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 29.
The latest accounts of ship John, state,
that capt. Folgier, with twenty others, are
yet on board. The vefTel lays on Duiik's
bat, 5 miles from the Jersey (hoTe, nearly
full of water, with her broadfide'to the
tide, the ice makipg a bank nearly over her
every ebb. Attempts were made on Wed
nesday from the shore to relieve the persons
on board, but without success. They were
to be repeated yesterday morning, at which
time, those on board were observed walking
the the only part of the vessel
left them as a place of refuge.
The Eunice, Seale, of Portland, from
Brillol for Philadelphia, was at Nanus, Oft.
2, waiting for trial.
On Saturday last, the dwclling-houfe of
Archibald Hamilton Rowan, Esq. on Brau
dywine Creek, together with all the valua
ble effefts contained therein, was totally
destroyed by fire.
A parcel of rotten hides is now lying on
Windmill Island—they are in such a Situa
tion as to be extremely offenfive even in fhis
cold feafon—lt is hoped that those whofc
duty it is will fee their removal.
___ :1! I < :
COMMUNICATION.
Whatever were the motives which influ
enced the majority of a certain great affera
bly to decide in favor of postponing the dis
cussion of a highly important measure, it
will be ascribed by the world to the fear of
offending a foreiga nation. Among that
majority are some to whom this principle
cannot be imputed ; but their views will be
confounded by their rotes, awl their adver
saries will exult in every temporary fchifrn,
fcrclires tO them fck« tariumpK of opp" i
fition which never divider. In a country like
our», it is itlways bad policy to johroppofi
tion, because it has heretofore prevailed in
the fame contest. If measures are to be ac
commodated to a bad precedent for the fake
of preserving an appearance of cesififtency ;
the encouragement to attempt the eftablifk
ment of futfh a preccdeM will be mightily
increased. To support a firm and virtuous
adminiftratton, against the intrigues and ac
tivity of its enemies, is a talk to be accom
plished only by labour, vigilance and perse
verance. If it be ascertained, that the fede
ral phala nx when once foiled will never ral
ly, but that its members will be likely to de
sert and join the aflailants y vti 6nfet of fac
tion will be more impetuous, and finally ir
resistible. On the contrary defeat fkould be
a new incentive to union and resistance.
Men who are confident in the fitnefs of their
own plans, should never defilt until they are
put into execution—Sometimes the popular
outcry may be excited, and the fears and
paflions of men will often be roused by those
who are in the praftice of juggling the mul
titude. But the slight-os-hand which moves
the mob, has not yet the command of the
" French national razor."" The moderation
of the people leads them to acquiesce in the
decisions of their government j and 'their
good sense ultimately approves of wife mea
sures which a. sudden impulse may have
prompted them at firft to oppose and con
demn.
At present the people are ripe for the
measure of arming our merchantmen—Their
representatives are not.
MR. TENNO,
To quiet the merchant* who consider the
attempt to prevent them from defending their
o<wn property as a violation of it tonftitution
al right, the idea is held out that the Uni
ted States will indemnify them for conse
quent lofies. But this aft of justice does not
intirely fatisfy the patriot who looks to the
general good at well as at bis personal interejl
andfafetj.
MERCATOR.
FROM A CORRESPONDENT.
The cake fellers, in order to lure the chil
dren to purchase their Wares with the great
er avidity, have hit upon a method of orna
menting them,not with gold leaf btit a sub
stance of copper,, denominated' Dutch metal.
It is needless to add that fetch substanceS,
taken into the stomach, must be highly
deleterious.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
" An Enemy to Nonfetfe" to-morrow.
iV Virginian " Sophoi," whose indigna
tion bears so loud an emphasis against the
American Seminaries of Learning, and
whose jacobinism feemsgrievedattheir being
under the benign influence of Federalism,
is recommended to transfer his lucubration
to the Aurora lif Monsieur Bache ; as she
publication of it in this Ckv.e'tr would b
zn infringement of his 7>reroj?a:Jvc. Such
characters as Dr. Smith merit tile 'eternal
enmity of those base hirelings who seek
aggrandizement in the disgrace attd ruin of
their country.
By this day's Marl.
NEW-TORK, December 28.
Under the Paris head in a Rouen paper
of Oft. 21, we find the following articles :
Bottot, secretary of Barras, has arrived
from Udina in ten days—nothing has tranf
pirtd, but we have no more belief that we
fliall have peacewith the Emperor, than with
England.
A letter from generaf Waffeffa, SfHTSnnc
es that hostilities are commenced by the ar
my of Italy.
[ The date of this Paris article is omitted
according to an inconvenient pra&ice in the
departments, but we may suppose it two
days anterior to the date of the Rouen pa
per, which is the 21ft of Oftofter. Two
days from Paris to Rouen and ten for Udine
will give the 9fh for the departure of the
Couiier from Udine,—the latest account
from that place, and about the time when
the anniftice was to expire.}
An article from Constantinople relates a
that appears incredible. An old Jan
izary of 70, with his wife, had beep in the
prafticeof collefting young persons of good
flefh, and inhumanly murdering them, for
the purpose of melting their fat and making
a fpccies of ointment, from the sale -of
which they made great profit. They were
detested in the aft of killing a young Ar
menian of 15 or 16 years old, and hung
before the door of the House.
Accounts frctn Milan (not dated, but in
a Ronen paper of the 17th Oft.) (late that
the equipage of the French general in. chief
had left that city, and the Polilegion hsd
lef Bologna to app:»iah nearer to the thea
tre of hostilities.
ARRIVED. DAYS
Ship Eliza, Allen, Jacquemel 39
Schr. John, Doggett, Bofion
BOSTON, Dec. 22.
ARRIVAL AT MARBLEHEAD.
On Wednesday lift arrived at Marblehead,
fehooner , capt. RujTell, 51 dayi from
Bourdeaux. Capt. R. had furnifhed fcimfclf
with French papers, which probably were to
the latter part of OiSofeer, but loft them by
falling in with three Englilh frigates.
Rumours of the aftion between the Dutch
and Englift fltets were current, but not regular
or circumstantial. _ There was no profpedl ot a
speedy peace, although it was not known that
hostilities had actually rrtommenced between
France and Auftiia. A favorable change in
the personal treatment #f Americans in Bour
deaux was noticeable ; but it is not knswn to
what it ought to be attributed. Cottoa, Coffee
and Tobacco, bore good prices at Bourdeaux.
Lift at Bourdeaux,juft arrived, capt».Pr»dlor,
Weft, Bateheldor and Ober, of Salem : CAOI»-
ai ; P<u<wr»re. Sailed in co.cSp't. Brown,
for N. York ; capt. Jarvis, do. capt. Cunning
ham of Ballon far Lilbon.
PITTSBURGH, December 16.
We noticed in our last, the arrival of the
commander in chief of the army. We are
informed that the ro«te by which he came
from the Wabafh and Western Pods, was
through a pathless wilderness of near 400
miles, and the fevered weather of the feafonj
he found the snow eighteen inches deep at
the Tufcarawas, on Monday the 4th inft.
during which day Farenheit's Thermometer
stood at 6 o'ctyck a. m. at 3 0 , at noon at
at 4 0 , and at 6 o'clock p. m. at o.
We learn with pleasure, that the Gener
al enjoys good health, although he has lain
near two months under a canvass roof—Wc
tinderftand also, that the discontents at Kaf
tkafkias had been entirely quelled by the
presence of Col. Sargent at that place—that
tranquility reigned every where, and that
by the last accounts from captain Guion he
had reason to expeft the speedy p«(Teffion of
the ports of Natchez—that by the General's
afliduty and adroitness a temper had been
produced, and a state of thing 3 eftablilhed
among the Indians which proraifes lasting
and permanent peace—asthe strongest proof
of this,-the celebrated Miami chief, Little
Turtle, • accompanied the General thus far
011 his way to visit his now acknowledged
Father, the President of the United States.
NEW THEATRE.
THIS EVENING,
DECEMBER 29,
WUI be Prrfented, the Wtftorical Play of
COLUMBUS:
or, A World Discovered.
Columbus, Mr. Hardinge
Doctor Dolorei, Mr. Bernard
To conclude with a New additional Scene,
(Written by a member of the Legislature ot the
United States.) *
Genius of Columbia, Mr. Marfliall.
With
A ROUNDELAY AND CHORUS.
The principal part* by Mr MarOiall, Mr. Djy ley,
Mr. Fox, &e.
To which will be added, the Farce of
THE LYING VALET.
Sharp, Mr. Bernard
MRS. G RATTAN,
RESPECTFULLY informs her friends and the
public in general, that necessity obligee her
to make this effort for the maintenance of hir fa
mily ; for them Mrs. G. solicits the support and
patrenage of a public, at hef
SECOND CONCERT,
which will be on Tuesday next, at Mr. Richardets'.
Subscribers Tickets Six dollars, which ad:ait all
the utmarrixd ladies of I.U family.
No tickets transferable.
Non-fu'-fcribers Tickets T» o Dollars.
The Concert to begin at half past leven, an!the
Band to attend for the Ball at eight.
The Subscribers will please tc fecdfpr their tick
ets, at No. 19 j High Street.
P=c -it. d4t
im—mi>.w iWa
Washington Lorrikr, Nc. 7T
List of Prize? and Blanks.
day's Drawing—OA. J. , .
A '°- OtJt. fro. Hols. No. Lois, No. Dchl
147 11614 231 x 3700^:
977 x 11517 6cj x 6.(/, c
*3*° .sSj x 2682s ;g t x
94 1 141-19 881 J5 48078 4
aic3 597 87084 x 52a
211 ,?J3 39246
349 7?i 664 5 57
759 * 794 28134 744 *
.IX7® 9CI 701 , y£6
4823 j 1J471 19201 X 4C15 f
S'3l 686 x 3MJI 41378
555 joo 16573 20 31626 659 <
6 J : 3 716 • 814 42353
7'? 8 9.1 x 32310 x 371
749 x 900 x 716 521
97* 9/6 335 76 699
7415 i7<3if x 34117 43503
J»7 • IVJ'i 44ij3
6599 X >0336 " 5*7 X- 6,»
10163 Srt24 J5 1,1 45747
2gS x 8 3* * 758 47356 «
11365 12355 840 48593
391 x 24679 36484 682 X
519 ®jo;o j97 49714
12 6'7 25 c<.S
136 th Day's Drawing—Oftober 21.
'867 1456 a 24393 36679
3°95 x 15150 827 37951
3'4 16046 , 25171 i«uj x
557" 096 x 847 143 X
743 127 910 x 39348
4546 50 387 944. 434
<>79 451 46302 x 691
'93 5c2 543 x
5684 926 27448 X 4-C33
585 1799° 865 x 229 x
9 01 18359 18671 727
* 543, 910 X 41001 X
426 X 715 965 i2 g
JO3 1936/ 29c90 x 471
822 7C6 192 7.11 x
7' 6 3 765 £47 41763 50
60s 20 84c x 426 x 43228 19
713 949 540 44032
*294 icjoo x 30C07 x 071
4*3 794 JII 305
94" x 8,5 7 31443 x -f 49j
° 3 9 937 SJI x 45191
icoßo 997 x 8f» x an
9 11 *l'J7 32120 580
9»i * 998 . 4 iq x 46036 X
r»to3 too iaii6 x 420 lS j
J3B X .. 218 458 7JJ
546 .X 2J2 X 764 922 X
75* X 247 860 4756? x
9:4 x 802 868 638
861 X SIQ 33301 926 X
*3053 23511 34091 X 48688
no 915 X 39 1 * 49355
411 x 921 x 35523 20 .534
14006 x 967 36181 X 703
120 24015 415
377 x 425
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal.
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, that tha
election for PreCaent and Managers, for the ensu
ing year, will be held at the company's office, on
on thefirft Monday in January next,at 10 o'clock,* m.
WM. MOORE SMITH, Scc'ry.
N» B. Tke Stockholders t© bs pun&ual in at*
tending at the hour of ten—on buiinefs ot inipof*
tancc, to be difeuffcd previous to the Elettion.
December 29. at
Employment for
FLAX for SPINNING,
To be given ont every (ecoud, fourth, and fixtfr
imj uiugi bt I w ceil rfir hours of lo*B<s IV—•
back of 00.52, south Fifth ftrsec, above Spruce*
street. cod2\v
A House in Burlington for bale.
'T'HE fubferiber his a large, convenient two-
JL story brick House, with Stable,, Carriage,
house, and a well improved garden, in tbeCity
of Burlington, New-Jersey, which he wllhes t<f
sen.. For termsapply at No. 5, South Fourth
ftrcet, to GEORGE WALKEK,
Who has also for Sale,
Lots in Washington City,
Contiguous to the Capitol and to tbe principal
harbour.
December 19. e67t
Lodgings Wanted,
Furniflied or untumilhed for a Gentleman, La.
dy and servant—two or three,genteel Rooms an
a Garret ; lituatcd South of Market Street'—En.
quire of the Printer.
Pec. 19.
Tin Plates,
FOR SALS BY
SIMON WALKER,
Pine, neir Fifth street.
December 28. iw
Salisbury Eltate.
THE Subscriber, pfopoGng to contra# hia busi
ness, offers this Eftite for falc, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blall and three Air Furnaces,
1 complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, With two pair of (tones} also a good Forge, all
in pcrfeft repair, as are nil the Water Works conneft*
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnaces
were lately built for the purpose of casting Cannon
for tb«s State.—-There are *bout two thoutand acres
of Land, one half of is under Wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and.
Pasture. The Cannoft lately mannfaciured there #
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
iuperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
6 any in the world ; for not oue of gwns
lately made, although some of the 24 were bored
into 32 pounders, have failed on proving. The fuu»
at very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufaflure, and a pface of arms lying in the ftato
of Connefticut, and only 30 miles from several land »
nigs on the liver, and having every advan*
cage that cau lefult fr«m a plenty of water ifluing
from a large pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufeful purposes. Th* purchaser can beaccommodaU
td with all the (lock, and utensils, and have pofteftior)
on or before the firft of June next, and prepar>tioa
may'be made in the mean t i me for going into Blast im
mediately thereafter, for every be delivered
in good order, w>th some coal, Ore, die* Sec. For
crms, apply to Mr. Joleph Acthnnv, in Philadel
phia ; David Brooks, E r q. one of the Reprefeatatives
in Ccxngrefs 4or this State ; Mr, David Watetman, OH
thepremifes, or 10 the proorietor in NewrYork.
WILLIAM NEILSOrf,
Dre. t. 3awtf
1111 ported jn the /hip MaNche s t ER,
Benjamin Shewepl, Matter,
From Bourdcaux, and i'or fcle by the fubferiber,
No. 11 Walnut Street.
Bonrdeaux Brandy
Irish market claret in cases ( Entitled to
Medocwine, in do. f Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatreyd,
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter caflca
Rota do. do.
Pimento in b3gs
4000 bushels Liverpool fait,
Aug, 44. Ut&stf.House ?nd Lots, in Borckntown.
Hpo BE u hav,idijK' two Ifcorj
with the Lot on which it ereAcd, fjtuarcd
about the middle of the beautiful and hea thy
Village of bo^den'awn. The hwufe is forty two
feet front, anti in neat TJie lot contains
one acre, and is one hundred feet on the main
itrcet, and extends with the fame breadth trbaek
lii\et. Also, a large Lot, containing nearly four
acres, fepawtcd irom the former by hack ilreet,
Onethil'd only of the purchase money will be re
quired upon executing: a <Jeed, and foir the re-
Riainder, such credif will be given as the purchase
er may chufe. This property will be fold free 0-
all incumbrances, and an iodifputable title givenf
For further particulars enquire either of Dr.
William Burnss, refidiftg in Bordentown, near*
the ppemifes, who will {hew the fame, qr of
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, no. 144, Marketercet.
December %. 3^Vrxf
NOT i C
Al.lj persons concerned are berfby notified,
that the fiber jnttsnds to apply for a re
newal of . the '.indcrmentioned lofl ct rtificates of
titockinthe Bank of the United States—He for
varded them under cover of a letter addressed to
John Anfley.of London, by the Jh'P Bacchus, cspf.
George,, which left this port in June lad" for l.on
doa. But that fliip having been captured on her
passage and fentto France, the above letter and tn
cjofurts have failed in their deilination.
Three certificates, viz:
Nos. 26325, 26336, 26327, each for
four (hares, dated January I ft, 1797, and
iflfued in the name of Henry Grace, of Tot
tenham Highcrofs, Great Britain.
ZACCHEUS COLLINS.
Philadelphia) November 8. 2aw6w
"notice.
J
Stockholders of the Bank of the United
X States, ue informed according to the
flatirte t|f Incorporation a general Eledlion fur
twenty five Directors will be held at the Bank
ofth* United States in the City of Philadelphia,
on Monday the firft day of January next at ten
o'clock in the forenoon.
And Durfuant to the Eleventh feilion of the
Bye Laws the Stockholders of tbe said Bank
arc hereby notified to aflemble in general Meet
ing at the fame place on Tuesday the second
day of January next at .five o'clock in the E
■.enrnp. . -
By order of the Board of directors,
G. SIMPSON, Cashier.
Second fundamental Article.
Not more than three fourths of tne Direiflors
in office, exclusive of the President, Ihall be e-
Ugibfe for the next succeeding year, but the
DireJlor who ihall be President at the time of an
Election may always be re-ele<!led.
Philadelphia, nov. 18. 1797. ftE
This l)ay Publiihed,
And t» be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, aorner of
Second and Chefnut jftreets,
Prise 3-Bths of a Bollar,
Observations on certain Documents
Contained i» No. V and VI of
" The History of the United States for
the year. 1796,"
In which ithc charge of spkculatvom against
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late SiCßtTAftr of the Treasury, it FULLY
REFUTED.
IT It IrT E N Br UIMS EI r.
This publication presents a soncife statement
01 1 lie Tjafc t-' .i:--r-iJa'.iKiugr.{ tlic
United Stat«* to afperfc the charaders of thofa
parfouswho are CoauSereda6 boftile to their difor-
fcheoies. It alio contains the cor
rcfpondence between Mr. Hamilton and MclTrs.
Monroe, Muhlenhurgh and Venab'.e, on the fub
of the documents aforefaid, and a series of let
ters from Tame* Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha
milton beyond the pofiibility of a doubt,
that the connexion between him and Reynolds,
was the rcfult of a daring conspiracy on the part
of the latter and his aflociatcs to extort money.
£5" A diicount of one third from the retail price
wiilbe mads in favor ot wholesale purchasers, for
cash. Orders to be addressed to Mr. Youm.
jiu-ufl 1
Yellow Fever and Pestilential
Diseases.
THIS DAY 18 PUBLISHED, in one vol. oflavo.
By William Young, Bookfdler,
No. i a, ftreet, the corner of Chefnut llreet,
(Price, in boards, Sj I 2 Cents J
Neatly printed on fine American wove medium
Paper,
A VIEW
Of the Science of Life ;
Qn tlje principles eftaMiflied jn tha elements
of Medicine, of the Ute celebrated
JOHN BRO WN, M. D.
With an attempt to correil some important er
rors of that wotk, and cases in illußration, chief
ly felcfted from the records of their pra<slice, at
the General Hospital at Calcutta, ....
Br William Tat&s Chas. Mkcle/in.
To which is fubj»ined, a Treatise on the action
of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica
tion for the cure of diseases of indiredl debility.
Andadiflertition onthe sources of Epidcoiicand,
Pestilential iifrafes; in which isattempted toprove
by a numerous induftion of fails, that they ne
ver arise from contagion, but are always produ
ced by certain slates, or certain viciflitudee of
the atmosphere, by Charlbs Maclfan, of
Calcutta.
Nov. at. snt
School Books and Stationary.
W. Y oTu NG,
No. Second-street, cornsr of Chefnut-ftreet,
HAS now ready for sale, a very large assort
ment of Englijb, Ercncb, Latin and Greek
SCHOOL BOOKS. Alfi, such elementary books
on Science, as are generally read in the academies
and colleges throughout ths United States.
LATELY MJ BLISHED,
Sheridan's Dictionary, the sixth edition, in one
large vol. 8 vo. price 3 dols.
Ditto, large 12 mo price 1 dol. 75 cfs.
Ditto, common, price I dol. 50 cts.
All forts of drawing, packing, printing, and
writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards, Palleboards,
flieathing and blotting Papers; printed Blanks,
blank Books, Wax, Wafers, and other articles, as
the best quality, ufed'in ttc counting
public office.
&•*& Catalogues of a miscellaneous colleilion of
BOOKS, with the price of each affixed, to be had
by inquiring as above. Oit. 24. 3 aw 6w
All Persons who are indebted to
theeftate of William Hetsham, fen. of Phila
delphia, deceased, are requested to make speedy'
payment; and those -who have any demands a
gain/1 faii estate, will pleafrto present them, pro
perly atccfted, to the fubferibers.
William Hey foam, ~t
■Robert Heyjbam. J- Executors.
Francis Bowes Sayre, J
nvjcmbtr 6. 3BW4W
| THE AMERICAN LADIES
• POCKET-BOOK, for 1798.
yusr published
By WILLIAM Y. BIRCH,
ICo. 17, fou'lt '.rco'iH-Orrc"—remaining
h N elegant Fioiitifpic eof ihe Murquij drlaFay-
Xi. c!te > ar "i h '* Family, in t lie rattle of Olmutz,
with an illullra:ion'; be>g an ac;o>i-it of the ptinci
pal events in the public hie ol the Marquis, with a
{ketch of the fuff.iiiigt ol himfelf and his unfortunate |
famiiv. A complete Almauaik— 104 luled pages
foi memorandums, nbfervaiions, &c. a l >,tor account
r.f monies paid and received for every day in the year
—a marketing Slid o:hc- uTeful tables—general meet* 1
ings of friends—Lift of birtbs. dca.hs, &c —new
country dar.ces, poetry, songs, enigmas, &c. &c.
A L SO,
The Gentleman'* annual Pocket Remcmbrartter,
for 1798 —containing «n Almanack; 104 rule! pagfs
for memorandums and cash accojnt ; Duties payable
on eo.ni imoO'tcd into the United States, C'ullom
houFe fees, damn dunes, to take place after 'the
3 1 ft Dec mUers a lift of tKe post towns and Crofj-roads
111 the Uriitejd States; a variety of ufctul tab'Cs, and -
otbrr.jotcrcftitis matter
W. Y. BIRCH c6nlUntly keeps for sale, a genera!
alTonmentof Merchant's account Docks, and other 1
j Itat onary goods, ar.d naVcs to order books ot any 1
size , and ruled to any pattern. i
Elegant Maps, on Rollers, and a large Chart of the
! Weft-Indies. 1
Hair and leather Trunks—Playing Card«, Englilh
and Ameiican, Dec. «7— * y. ]
____
DANCING SCHOOL. (
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL prrfents his 1
moil refpe.ilful compliments to his form- J
•r employers anitbe citizens in general, a»d re- J
turn't his most grateful thanks, for the very t
bountiful encouragemcut he has expetiencetl for
tnefe twenty-five years past, takes this opportu
nity of informing them, that his school is now ,
open, at his I
Elegant Ball Room,
1 in South Fourth-Street, between Chefnut and
Wair.ut-ftreets. To begin at 10 in tl»e morning
for young ladies, and i in the evening for young
gentlemen.
Dec. 8. aawtf.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
BoardingSchootfor young Ladies, f
MRS. GHOOMBIUDGE with much pleas- <
ure and refped, rettirr.i-her sincere ac- 1
knowledgemcnt for the liberal e*courag<meot
(he has received during four years refidenae in '
Philadelphia ; and allures her friends atul the '
public, to from inte »cing to decline her
school, (lie lia« made a fupertor arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars.—Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groombridge and matters excelling in their
refpedliveprofeflions. '
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797. ijimfrf '
Thefituation is perfeiJlly healtky j and made 1.
more agreeable by an extenfiva garden and lot 1
of ground adjoining the house. t
City of Washington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificentrtwciling-boufe 10,009 dollars,
& cash 30,000, are 50,000 J
1 ditto 15,000 & ca4 aj,oo» 40,00* j
I ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000 (
I ditto 10,000 & calh 10,000 20,000
t ditto 5,000 k cash 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,00p k cash 5,000 10,000
j ca!h prize of 10,000 1
1 do." s*ooo eiciua'-cj 1
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,000 I
to do. }*o - - 10,000
00 do. 100 - - 10,000 1
aoo da. 50 10,000
400 do. 15 - 10,000 1
„ !,ooc do. »o - ao.ooo
15,000 do. 10 - »5«,ooo
_ .
I'»W9 P"««. . ,
3 j,i6i Jllanka.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,00s
N. D. Tofavour thofewho may take a quan
tity of Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but one :
And approved notes, fccuring payment in either
mon«y or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received sot any number not lets than 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant fpecimcn of
the private buildings to be credlad in the City •£
Washington—Two beautiful defigps are already
lele&ed for the entire Ironts on two of the public
squares; from these drawings it ispropofed to eretJl
two centre and r our corner buildings,as toon aspof
fible after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduction of five per cent, will '
be made to defray the necessary cxpenfes of prißt- •
Wig, &c. and the forplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National Umverftty, «o
be ercdled within the city of Walhi/igton. (
The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the
Brizes, are held by tfe President and two Dire&-
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are vslued at
more than half tfie amount of thel»ttery.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
,§, Tickets may be had at the Bank of Colam
bia ; of James Well & Co. Baltimore; of Feter
Oilman, Boston ; of John Hopkins, Richmond
and of Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry. mwf
For i'ale or t6 be let on ground
rent,
Ai,-valuei'>te Lot of Ground ;
QITUATE on the north-eaftcorner of Wai-
O nut and Fifth Greets, fronting the State-
Houfefquare. This lot is fifty-one feet front
00 Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen
fee£ and an half on Fifth street t, there are at
present twofmall two flory brick houses, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Al/o, for Sale, '
Two three flory Brick Houses
With convehient stores, wharf, Utc. fituite on
Water-street, between Mulberry and Safiafras
ftre'ets', containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breidth eafl
ward nine:y-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches, These houses 1
ave the conveniance of a publie alley adjoining (
on the north llde, and are a very.ddSrable fitua- -
tion for a merchant, flour faflor,or others wlio
may have opcalton for storage of goods. This
property will be fold on very reasonable torms ;
forcalh. For further information apply to the 1
printer. '•
July 31. m.&wtf 1
"jiif Publi/hed,
Acd to be had of Mcflrs. Dobfon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal Boolcfellers in the. "
city,price one dollar, twinty-fiye cents,in boards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, m. d. -
June 10. ' *6t r
FQV <>
By JOHN MILLER,' j-un* Go.
No, 8, rhjltiu'-ftrert,
One hundred and eighty bales
' Bengal goods,
Amongfi which are,
Gurrahs* Mamoodies
Baft as Sarin as
C»uez nalis Tancla CoiTacs
Oazaii-s Emertics
Blue Cloths Calicoes
Patampoors Roraail Handkei chiefs
Amongst them are a great proportion of the
manufa&uveh of Pattia.
DecernWr r. § i
JUSTRECEIVEDy !
(via York)
AND NOW OPENINQ, BY
George Doeson,
No if, feuth Third fireet,
An exteblive ami general aflortment of
HABERDASHERY, viz.
Deft London mixt Pins - GaUoons and' Ferrets
Comiftonjdn. do, Worsted Bindings, aiTor*
Matenzie'sfnpjr,patent ted coleurs
white chapel Niedlea Imperial, diaper, and
Nuns Thread no. 6to Thread Tapes
40, regularly aflorted White Edgings
Lisle do.no. 130 to 500, Black md coloured Chi
regularly assorted nefe Ribbands
Coloured do. Sattin and figured do.
Black sewing Silks Blacky<;lvet, 1-4 to md
Coloured do. and Twill Velvet,& pejon Sattij*
Silk and cotton Wires French Cambrkk
Do. da. Ribbands do.
Shirt Moulds and Wires ; Plain gilt and plated
Black brush Feathers ' Buttons
And a complcat afTortment of G#ods, suitable
to the present ahd approaching fejji'fon, at reduced
prices ___ 13ec. 6. . dtf
French Circulating Libr-ary.
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
No. no Walnut-ttrqet,
INFORMS those who wi(h to recur to the only
means of becoming perfedi in the Frbnch Lan»
puage, that he has just opened hi* Library, con
fiding of upwards of 1150 volume*, the best cal
culated to afford either,ufeful inftru&ion, or plca
fure. 1 lie conditions, together with a catalogue
of the Library, hiay be seen at every book-feller's
in town.
n. b. All translations from and into the French,
Englilh.and fipajoifli Languages, exec a tea wiih ac
curacy and dispatch. eoim nw ij.
WAN T E D,
K LARGE PARCEL OE
Scantling and other Lumber,
Suitable for House Building ;
Alfoa quantity of Stone & Bricks,
I am ready to enter into contracU for the a
bove articles—a reasonable time may be allowed
for prepiring tliem ; and cjilh shall bspiitj either
m advance, oruftftrt their delivery, as may be a
grced on.—Apply to tlx Subscriber, Hotofe-Car-
Lombard-flrcet, No 7.
"John Crean.
Decemhirt- Vipj " -. d6t.
GLE&kSHIP.
A YOUNG MAN, who could bring indispu
table recommendation*, is dcftr«usto be cm
ploytj ill the capacity of copying Clerk, it a public
office—Hii would attgage oh moderate terms.
For further -particulars enqume at tke office of t
G«»Ctte. §_ Dec i»
All Persons
Having any demands the Eflate of tile
Ute Captain George lrwiil, are- requested to
• aococrm* p™p<V!y atreTfßa, uloi
before the firft (Jay of nixt enl'umj
and those who are indebted to said efWte are so
liciled t<j make immediate payment to
SaRAH IRWIN, Administratrix.
Nov. 19 179 7, , . j
The Subscriber intends to make
application for tke renewal of a Certificate oft Share
in the Bank of the United States, flfandiag in the name
ofA.B. No. 5004, dated July it, 1797. the Came
having been lott. JOHN GRAHAM.
Richmond, Dec. 1.
ROSS & SIMSON^
HAVE f«OR SALB,
A few bale 6 Baftas, CoflaS, and
a quantity of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in tags and boxes
Jamaica, „
St. Vincents, i RUM.
and BeDgal j
300 calks RICE, tad
A parcel of ship building RED CEDAR.
oil. tj. §
Chocolate and Mustard,
ef a superior quality manufadlufed,
GINGER and Pepper, gtound ; shelled or
pearl Barley ; Philadelphia Porter, Betr,
Ale and Cyder ; Taupton and Burton Ale ;
London Porter ; red. Port and Lilbon Wiiie,
luitahle for exportation or home consumption.
Tlie hlghefl/ptjcegiyfn (pr Muftard-SeeA.
/Ilfo for fate., A quantity of Booking and
coti)ni6n Baizes, a variety of colors ; a bale of
Fustians, Shawls, &c, for fyle bv
JOHN HA WORTH,
No. 98, foutli Ftomt-fireetw
Nov. 27. m Scth.t.lJ.
imported (via New York) on the
ship Hero, from Madras and Calcutta, and for
falc by tbc fubferiber, at No. 61, Ghefnut ftrect,
between Second and Third Streets* the folldvY
ing articles .
Maharagongrs Ch'arcoriba EWfens
Chintz and Calicoes Dacca Worked llncflins
Gillis RomaN Bandannoes
Nillas & Penfii.ifoes Chafla Romals
Blue cloth Hair ribbon
MullMul4hankerchief6 Palempore*
Patna 40. Banares Opmm
Lefler Cardimum Seeds.
Samuel Wilcox.
November 37 tuthf^w
To Gentlemen who intend /pending
the Winter in the *Ctty.
ROOMS to LET,
WITH or without Board—at No. 114, corner
of Sixth and Race Streets. The situation
agreeable—and vicinity has been free from the late
contagion. Od. 27 dtf'
BY virtue of an order of the" Orphan's Court*
willbie crpofcd to Sale, oh the »(jth current,
at 9 o'clock,m. at the prtmifes, a small frame
HouTe and Lot, situated on the corner of Spruce
and Eighth streets, fulijeift to an annual ground
rent of fifteen pounds, late the property of An
thony Lebeck, deceased.
MARGARET LEBECK,
December 16. *3t
Samuel Pleafants & Sons, •
No. 74, South Second-Jlrcel,
HAVE received a supply of Seafcuiabk GOODS,
which they are now epeii'ng for sale, on
terms. 04 17. —4W
New-Theatre,
December if, 1797.
THE Managers particularly rcqu-ft the con
currence of the public in the abolition of a
cuflom which has hitherto obtained, of giving a
way or disposing of RETURN CHECKci at the
Theatre.
They are aware that gentlemen are unconscious
of airy wrong done to the interest of the inftttu
tipnby this prafl ice, from a general, though mis*
taken ide.t th.it Checks are the reprefentativas of a
right so so many feats in tke Theatre, during an
Evening's Entertainment, and transferable at will;
when in faift, they were never intended as more
than tdtns by which the Door-keepers are enabled
to afcortain with thv' I'aft trouble to
tley tlemfelvts haw !,eea before in or
paid for their adniiirioii.
Independent of the iijury tlia .".lanagefs fullain,
such a ( prafiice encourages a croud of idle boys and
other dlforderly persons to furroutid the doors of
the '1 ht-a're, to the aorruption bfpkeiif movaU and
the great annoyauce of the Audiettat.
It has also been Wit foutce of two evils of no in
ccnfidcrablc magnitude; one is tjrat fjnietimes
ve-y iropropsr company is by tltefe'mians admit
ted ; and the other, that owin; to Checks passing
into difhonelt hands, they have be n frequenaly
counterfeited to a large amount for the purpoks of
Sale.
This ftatentent will, it is refpedlfully hoped, in
duce the Public to discourage such a traffic : and
the exertions of the Managers will, if thus a Gifted,
easily prove adequate to its entive abolition
WIGNELL & REINAGLE.
December 13 iw
Mujical Inllrument Manufactory^
167, Arclj-ftreet.
TO THE LOTERS OF HARMONY.
.HARPER,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he has
now ready for sale, a few «f his new invented,
and much admired fide board Piano Fortes, with
Pedals,patent swell, fonopahant and French harp
flop, which for sensibility of touch, brilliancy of
tone, fimplitity and durability of condruilion, the
fnperiority of whlch,he flatters himfelf, a Dngle tri
al will convince the unprejudiced judge—As they
are manufa&ured under his immediate infpe&ion,
of the very be-- seasoned materials, he oan fell 011 j
reasonable terms for C-a?h. Inftrumsnts repaired,
tuned, &c.
N. B. Second hand Piaflo Fortes taken in ex
change for new.
ntvemler I?. law2lllo.
Samuel & Miers Fisher,
ARE NOW OPENING,
At their Warehouse, No. 27, Dock Street, a frefli
aflortment of Woolen and other goods, suitable to
the season, received by the late afrivahftom Eng
land.
have also f»r Sale,
Lilbon i
Sherryfand ( ,n P'P c 5- and luart«1 uart « cafl "-
Port Wines, J
Assorted queen's ware in crates, See.
dlw^tawjw.
FOR SALE, !
By the Subscrisek, at his Store, No. 75, South
Water-street,
A general aflortment of China
Ware
Black and coloured Sattins
Do. - do. Lutestrings
Do. d». Handkerchiefs
Do. do- fewing^ilks
Imperial and Hyson Teas
Long and (bort Nankeens
Quick Silver, in tubs
Holland Gin, in pipes
Assorted Glass Ware, in cases
White and brown Havanna Sugars, in boxes
i MohiE-i in Tiogfticids
St. Cr6U Rum anJ Sugar, in do. 1
London particular Madeira Wine.
Sherry and Malaga Wines, in quarter casks
Red,- yellow and pale Barks, in chests
Logwood, &e. &c.
nn JOSEPH SIMS.
Imported in the brig Eliza,
Capt. Hastie,/ram Bourdeaux ;
Claietin Cofesof a very superior quality,
White Sauterne Wine in Cases,
Olive Oil'in bafe,ets of t a bottles each,
White and ealoured Kid Gloves,
do. do. Silk do.
A few pipes of Bourdeaux Brandy,
For Sale by \
JAMES LATIMER, jun."'
7 1, South W harv«s.
Win) has also for Salt,
A few qr. Calks Old Sherry Wine.
Dec, y
For Sale by the Subscriber,
10 bales Coll as
40 do. BaUas
11 do. Mamoody
17 do. Chintz
7 do. Tookery
1 do. Goraha
»5 do. M»rajuagees
3 do. Chfck Stripes
I do. Grazie
I box Diapers
7 do. Umbrellas
•4.5 pipes finefl parlltular lVCaaurra Wine, of
the vintage 1 y<» c.
MOREiECAI LEWIS.
Decefuber ?. j4W4<v
To be fold,
AN ELEGANT COUNTRY SKAT, contain
ing 6 acres and 40 perches, a neat two
story brick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, &c. situate on the Irish traift lane, in the
townlhip of Moyamenfing, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be made known upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon this place, for taste and
elegance, (land unrivalled.
December 1. dtf
Peale's Museum.
THIS valuable repofieory of the works of Na
ture, so tvell calculated to delight the mind
and enlarge the underftandtrtg, is opened diily, as
uftkal. It fiends in an airy and healthy frtuations
and free from the epidemic thst at present affliiU
the city; it may, therefore, be frequented with
the greatest fafety.
As an Antufcruent, the fludy of Nature is the
plealVrtg : as a Science, the mod
fubiime and irjflruftiVe. It clevjltesthe mind and
expinds the heart. They
" IVbim Nature 1 wis can chji -.7,
" Hold ianvtrft."
Many infer/fting additions have- lately been
made to this Mufcum : and the feathered tribe,
containing a variety of the mod rare beautiful
fubjedU, is now very advantageously arranged.
Waxen Figures, of Men large as lrf* (feme of them
calls from nature) are here dressed ia their preper
habits, and placed in attitudes chani(3cri£tic of their
refpeflive nations Here may be seen the North-
American Savage,and the lavage of South-Ameri
cq—a laboring Chinese, and the Chinese Gentle
man—the sooty African, and the Kamtfchadale—
with some Natives of the South Sea Islands. The
immense variety and interesting diversity w>r.ch
this Museum offers to the view, may befeciibut
oannotbe described with full efTeil.
Price onl/ I-4th of a dollar.
Seyt. law
For Savannah,
TO SAIL THE FIRST OPENING,
The fad failing ihip
SWIFT PACKET,
Patrick Gribb-en, Master,
NOW lying the firft wharf below
f v i ai .^- et Street—his handsome ac
commoNations for pafTchgtrs—Fdr freight or pafr
sage apply to the Master oh board, or to
N. J. Frazer,
No. 95, South Front Street.
Who have on hand, and for Salt,
Prime Rice, in whole and half tierces, Georgia
and Carolina Indigo, Molalfes in hhds, Tenerifte
wine, &c. Sic
December 47 3tawtf.
Wanted to Charter, .
r* Britilb" WfTel, fifteen hundred
two thoufarid five hundred bar
• Peter Blight,
WHCT HAS FOR SALS,
Choice, Red Port Wine in pipes, and hoglhea ,
and ofd London Particular Madeira, fit lor imftit
diat'e Use, in pipes.
December 10 §!»''
f or Charleston,
1- . • THE SHIP
gk-K VENUS,
j et ivharf of Mejfrs. Perottf
? C ta ke Freight on very
O low terms, and fail the firft
opening. Apply to the niafter on board, or t©
Jos. Anthony & Co.
Detemberiß ' §
For Amsterdam,
F J T R M'E R,
J OHN M'CcplloM, Master ;
'3.vJj'J.WILL fail in a few days, the
greater part of her cargo being
ready. For freight ef fifty toijs of Coffee, or pas
sage, apply to the master on boarJ, at Walnut
ftreet wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE. '
Who is Landing, out of the said Ship, from Bour
deaux, and for Sale,
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter calks
Claret in cases, of ~s. superior quality
Fentifiiae, 'J
> Wiaes in tafes
Lunille, )
Prunes in boxes
novembef 24. <
For Londonderry,
THE BRIGANTIME
1 s uket >
William Whitten, Master.
SZS-jKSfSfc : " A strong good vefTll, about two
hundred tohs, to fail with all convenient speed, a
great part of her cargo engaged'—now lying at
Willing and Francis'twharf. For freight or pas
sage, apply to the captain, or >
JOHN SKYRIN,
LanAtnbc)rgtY % s iubarf. •
Who wants to Charter.
A VisKLof about three hundred tont.
«'V " . ' - j .1,
For Sale or Charter,
fmL GOOD HOPE,
Wijl carry about moo barrels, and
CKjrygP'! i$ ready to take jn a cargo. For terms
P?age*t- ss? €?©.
No 151, houth Seeohd-ftreet.
Who have forfale—prime St. Croix Sugar and
Rnm, Madeira, Lisbon, and Teneriffe wine.
November 7. dtf.
For Liverpool,
fagcttjiT Hamburg Packet,
Captain Silas Swain.
A proporcion of her
~ JIX cargo being ready to go dn
board, is expeAcd to fail on or about Sunday, the
3d of December.
For Freight or Passage, apply to the Captain oa
board, at Walnut-street Wharf, or to
PHILIP NICKLIN & Co.
November aa. §
For Savannah, in Georgia,
'THE SHIP
Sally Butler,
Captain Cms holm,
A new veflel, with excellent
accommodations for pafiVngers—
Saile on thfc loth vf December, For Freight or
Passage, apply to ROSS & SIMSOH.
IVbe lave to tfifPtft, of%
A fmull invoice of GLAUB.EK. SALTS
INDIGO, and a parcel of HOLLY WOOD.
November 18. 5
FOR SALE, at ~
Joseph Anthony Ss 5 Co. /
No. j, Chefnut Street,
A cargo of choice Emjrdeaux Brandy, ift and id.
proof, just landed
150 bales of Eourbon cotton of a superior quality
9 do. Surat, do do
A quantity of heavy black pepper in bales
Bourbon Indigo of the firft quality
High proof Jamaica lpirits
Old London particular Madeira wine / In pipes 8c
do. market do ( qr. cases,
ISletv England rum in hbgfheads
Genuine Holland Gih In J)ip£s
Cr?.r<t in cases
Spermaceti candies and (train'd oil
Prime Boston beef
Choice Halifax Salmon in battels fLtii l;.if liarrieU
Do. Herritig in do do
Be(\ Boston Trtficlcarel iu aarrelt of the fill fare,
New-England uw l : w«a s
A few tons of Rufßa cordage
RulTij fi-ather beds
Clover'and Timothy fcecj in ;a(!cs
Ling whalobone
#Jo tj), and 3, Bofinn fail aucU
A-few'eXefts (irli qualify Hyson tea i %
Carolina rke in whole aad half tierces and
An invoice of Dutch hollow glass warr..
Nivember 8. djw.
This day is PubJiflicd,
At the office of the Aurora, No. 112, Market Street
[ Price otie dollir ahd a half,J
A view' of tliccondiicl Of the EXECUTIVE in tfce
FOREIGN 'AFFAIRS of the United' S-.y.is, conoefl,
ed witt the Milfion lo the French Re'(iU!ilic tiurmg
the years, 1754, j, 6,
By JAMES MONROE,
Late Minister Pler.tpoientiar v to the (aid KepuMic
Illuftraied by iiis INSTRUCTIONS and €OR
RESPONDENCE and other authentic doiuttteois.
A very liberal allowance to thoTe who b«v i» ie|l
a>ain. •
Dcctmotr 23. . • *gt.