of ti>t Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
NUMSBJ) 1654.J
Marshal's Sales.
United States, P
Pennsylvania Diflrift. A",
BY virtue of a writ of Fieri Facias iflucd outofthe
Diftrift Court of the United States for the Penn
sylvania Diflri&, to mc directed will be exposed to
Public Sale, on Tuesday the second day of
January next, at fevcu o'clock in the evening,
at the Coffee House in Second Street, in
the city of Philadelphia, the following tra&s and par
cels of vacant and unimproved lands situated in the
County of Bedford in the State of Pennsylvania— -to
•wit: one traft of land called Rush Bottom, situated
on the waters of Liclieu cr«fk, in Belfaft township
in thd fame county, bounded by lands of Jacob Bore
man, William Defhong, Ralph Bropks others,
containing three hundred and nin,ety-one acres, and,
one hundred and thirty two perches and the ufnal al
lowance.
Gne craft called Newland, fltuated in Belfaft town
ship in the fame county, bounded by lands of George
Sipes, Monci Difchaugs, Neas William Difchang,
John Ruffle and others, containing four hundred and
lour acres and three quarters, and the usual allowances.
One traft called Hickory Ridge, situated on the
waaers of Tonola way creek, in Belfaft township in
the fame county, hounded by lands of Eliis Rutman,
Feter freights, George fioretnan, Monci Defhongg
>nd otheps, containing four hundred and forty-four
acres and ninety-fix peaches and allowance,
And one tra6l called. Gold Mine, fiiua.e on the
wate/s of Tonolaway creek in Belfaft township, in
the fame county, bounded by lands of Will iam Woods
Peter Swarfzler, John M'Lett, Jacob Tho*
fnas Logan and others, containing three hundred apd
Seventy acres and fiftv-fix parches md allowances, &c
The foregoing iraaa are all patented, feiz<d and
taken in execbrion as the property of Philip Really,
and to be fold by
William Nit hols y Marshal.
Proember 23. dta^
MatlhaFs Sales.
United States, > _
Pennljrivania DiftricJl, J JJ'
TTY virtue of a wrif'orfiCTf fach» issued out of
JD the diflritt court of the Un'itetl Matrs for
the Fennfylvania difttitft, to me (iireiled, wi.l
be exposed to fate, on Tuesday the second
day of Jauuary nest, at seven o'clock ir> the
•veuinj, at the CufTee-houfe in
Second-ftreej, in the city of Philadel hi.t, the
following traifts or parcels of vacant jnd unim
proved LAND, situated in the county of So
merset, late county of Bedford, in the state of
Pennsylvania, viz.—
A certain trafl, surveyed in the name of Ma
ry Eafltftnan, containing three hundred 5t eighty
acres and the usual allowance See. situated on the
waters of Stony creek, in Stoney creek tewnfhip,
and bounded by lands surveyed for Joseph Kitk
bride, John Koadi, Charles Reinfhsw, and o
ther«.
A certain other tratS, fnrveyad in the name
ef George Campbell, containing four hundred
?nd ten acres ami allowance &c. situated on the
weft fide of Alleghany Mountain, on the waters
ef Steny creek, in Stony creek towofhip", for
merly Bedford, now Somerset county,and bound
ed by lands surveyed for Joseph Kirkbrida, Ma
ry Eafleraan, Jeha Rowfer and others.
A certain other trail, lurveyed in the name of
Benjamin Lodge, containing four hundred and
fourteen acres Sc three quarters & allpwancc,&c.
situated on the waters of Clear rttn, a branch of
Steny creek, in Stony creek townfhig, in ike
county atorefaid, and bounded by lands fhrveyed
for William Gattack, William Skinner, George
Campbell and others.
A certain other trail, fnrveyed in the name of
Richard Williams, containing three hundred
and ninety-leven acres and a half and allowance
fee. situated on the ifete road and old road lead
ing from JBedford to Pittfburg, and oc the wa
ters of Stouy creek, in Stony creek township, in
the county aforefaid, and bounded by lands fur
veyed for Jacob Stotler, William Gotamy, Sa
muel Adams aad others.
A certain other trail, surveyed in the name
of William Gattack, containing four hundred
and one acres and a half and allowance See. situ
ated on Clear run, a branch of Stony creek, in
Stony creek townlhip, in the county aforefaid,
and boupdedby lands surveyed for Robert Wil
liams, William Skinner, Benjamin Lodge and
others.
A certain ofher tr.if, surveyed in th« name
of Robert Witlt3ms, containing four hundred
and two acres and a half and allowance &c. fwu
atcd on the water* of Stony creek, in Stosy
creek, townlhip, in the county aforefaid, and
bounded by lands for Jacob Ziglar,
Richard Williams, Samutl Adams and others.
A certain other trail, surveyed iu the name
etf James Johnson, containing three hundred
and ninety-five acres and allowance &c. situated
onbeth fides of tfce state road* on the waters of
Stony creek, in Stony creek township, in the
county aforefaid, and bounded by lands surveyed
for Alexander Johnson, Joseph Engle, Conrad
Weaver and others.
A certain other trail, surveyed in the name
of Alexander Johnson, containing four hundred
and five acres and a half and allowance &c. situ
ated on the waters of Stouy creek, in Stuny
creek township, in the county aforefaid, and
bounded by lands surveyed for J#hn Lombard,
Jamas Johnson, Joseph Eugle and others.
A certain other trail, surveyed in the name
of John Johnson, containing four hundred and
eight acres and three quarters and allowance
&c. situated on the waters of Stony creek, in
Stony ereek township, in the couuty aforefaid,
andtboynded by lands surveyed for Robert Tuck
cef«, John Shoemaker, Mathias Baker and
•.thers.
A certain other trail, surveyed in the name
#f William Campbell, containing four hundred
and seventeen acres and a quarter and allow
ance &e. situated adjoining Jones's road, and a
on a run emptying into Laurel-hill creek,
otherwise called the North Fork of Turkey-foot,
in lilillford townlbip, in the county arureraid,
and bounded by lands surveyed for Joseph Bark
er, Mathias Geflet, Benjamin Rufsleand others.
A certain other traft surveyed in the name of
Betsey Galbreath,containing three hundred &nin»-
jty nine acres and one quarter and allowance, &c.
situated on Roaring run, a small branch of l.aurel
Hill creek, in Milford townlhip, in the county a
forefaiil, and bounded by lands surveyed for John
Driver,, Moses Parker, JefepH Barker and others.
A certain other trail surveyed ill the name of
Joseph Barker, containing sous hundred and three
acres and one quarter and allowance, &c. situated
on a large run emptying into Laurel Hill creek a
bout a mile above the falls, in Milford township, in
the county aforefaid, and bounded by lauds sur
veyed for Mathias Goflett, William Campbell, Bet
sey Galbceath and others.
A certain other trait surveyed in the name of
James Ciffna, Containing four hundred and one a
cres and one quarter and allowance, &c. situated
on Jones's Mill run, a branch of Laurel HiU creek,
in Milford township, in the county aforefaid, and
bounded by l»»d» surveyed for Robert M'Connel,
John Hendall, Benjamin Bankfon ud others.
PHILADELPHIA: THURSDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 28, 1797
A certain ether tracl surveyed in the name of
Mary CJalbreath, containing four hundred and
one acres and allowance, &c. situated «n Jones'*
mill ru«, a branch of Laurel Hi!l creek, in Mil
ford township, ift the county aforefaid, and boun
ded by lands surveyed for GabrielHeifter, Junes
Ciffna, James Campbell and others.
A certain oth«r tract surveyed uj the nante of
Jame« Campbell, containing sous hundred »r.d
twenty three acres and one quarter and allowance,
Btc. situated on the head waters of Shaver'* Mill
rwj, andon both fides of the middle road-, part in
Millord and part in Somerset Eownfhipin the coun
ty aforefaid, and bounded by lands surveyed for
Theodore Memimger, William Sheaff, John Scott
and others.
A cortein other tra<sk surveyed in the name of
John Scott, containing four hundred and three a
cres and three quartsrs and allowance, &c. fituat
vd on the head waters of Shaver's mill run, in So
mcrl'et townlhip and Somerset county, late Milford
township, Bedford county, aud bounded by lands
surveyed for WilJiam Shs&flf, J units Campbell,
Willian Scost aud others.
A certain other trad, surveyed in the name of
William Scott, containing three bundr»d and eigh
ty-nine acres, and one quarter, and allowance, &c.
situated on a large run, emptying into Laurel Hill
Creek, about a mile above the middle road, io So
merset townlhip, Somerset cott.ity, late Miilford
township, Bedford county, and bounded by lands
surveyed for lfabella Gabreath, William Coates,
Robert Martin, and others.
A certain o'hrr tra6l, in the name of Sa
muel Hagerman, containing four hundred and thir
teen acres and allowance, See. situated on both fides
of the State ro-id on the waters of Stony creek in Stos
ny creek townihip, formerly Bedford, now Somer
set i ounty and bounded by lauds firveyed for Samuel
Hillrgas Cornelius Barns, Jacob Slottei and others
certain other tract surveyed in the rame of Fran
cis Walker, containing three hundred and niucty-lwo
acre* and a half and allowance, 4c. situated oh the
waters Nort FoTk ni Turkey Foot, ncai the'
lin. b and Tuikjy Foot townflttpu
Somertft countylatf B aford county and bounded by
lands furve\edfor |e(Te Brooke, John Brooke, William
Biddlc and Peter r otipati and others.
The foregoing lands are held by warrant of Survey,
Seized and taken in execution as the pfoperty of
Plnlip Rrillv
William Nichols, Marshal.
December 23 dtgj.
Marshals .Sales,
United States, "1
Pennsylvania Diftrift. J
BY virtue of a Writ of venditioni exponas, ifTued
out of the Circuit Court iof the United States,
in and for the Pennsylvania Diftriift of the Middle
Circuit, ancl to me directed will be fold at public
sale at the Marshals Office in Race Street No. 117.
on Saturday the 30th day of December inft. at 1 2
o'olock at noon, two elegant engraved Copper plates
ol Shakespeare, one plate of Harmony, Bartolezzi,
one plate of prudence, do. one plate of meekness, do
one plate of beauty, do. and one plate of Harveft
home do—Seized and taken in execution a» the
property of Tristram Bampfylde Freeman, and
John Nicholfon, Merchants, trading under the firm
of Freeman and Company,
And to be fold by
William Nichols, Marshal.
Marlhals office >
December 18th 1797 J dtf
THE SUBSCRIBER,
ONE of the late firm of FREEMAN V Co.
thinks it a duty he owes to himfelf, to de
clare, that he is no wife concerned in the property
above advettifedby the Marshal!, nor ought he to
be fuhjefl to the said action, which will be dilut
ed by the party whose interest it is.
1 rifiram Bamfylde Freeman.
December 22 dtjoth
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not btfore disposed of at private sals)
Monday the hrftdayof January next, at (i*
V o'clock in the evening, »t the Merchants' Cof
fee House, in Phifidelphia, Twenty-Six Thousand
Seven Hundred end Eighty acres Of LAND, in the
State of New-York, between the northern bounds
of Pennsylvania and thr v u quehanna, now, or late
in the townfhjpi ot Hijnddp and Warren, and coun
ty of Montgomery One iourih of the puicfeafe
money to be paid at the time of iaie ; for the reiidue
one, two and three moiHhs, wiW be given,
on in%creit and good security.
Drc. 1 3tawtS.
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not before disposed of at private sale J
Monday the firft day of January next, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchant*'CotTfer
44oufe» in Philadelphia, Forty 'l'houfand Nine Hun
died and Thirty-Nine arres of LAND in Gieen
county, Commenwealth of Pennfylvania,on tha Wa
ters of F«(h and Wheeling Crrek, andtcu Mile Run.
Thcfc lands are fertife, well timbered and abound in
coal; they were fold ten years ago for 5s per acre,
patented ea«iy in *787) except 3.700, which were pa
tented in 1702 ; the part of them were sur
veyed in 1783.
Thit traft is betwern the Ohio and Manongahelt,
verycanvcuienl to water carriage—about 19 miles from
the town of Waihington, a/id from 141016 from the
villages of Greenfburgh and Wheeling. One fourth
of the purchase money is to be paid at the time ot
sale; for the residue a credit of one, two, and three
months will be given, on interest and good security.
Dec. 1. 3' awt J*
Thomas Randall,
PRESENTS his refpefts to his Friends, and the
Public in general, informs them that he hasopen»d
an Office, athishoufe, No. 88, Spruce llreet, for
the purpose of transacting bufineU in the line of
Cemnuifiori and Agency, collc&ing rents and out
standing claims in any part of the United States.—
He flatters himfelf that from his long refidooce in
this country and a general knowledge of it, hisfer
cices will be found worthy the notice of those who
may please to confide to him the management of
any of their concerns,
N> B. Security given where required,
nth mo 14 3tawtf
"for sale,
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. 55, the corner of Chefnut and Front streets,
A large quantity, of Clocks and
Watches. Also, a genera! assortment of Tools,
Biles and Materials, coafifting of Clock Mpvt
ments, eight day and thirty hour pinions
and f«rge work ; Bells, clock and watch Dials,
Springs, Hands, GlaiTes, Pu nice Stone, Emery,
Rotter. Stone, Cat Out; bench, fland and tail.
Vices; Turns, Pliers,Chains,Seals,Keys, &c. &c.
* # * Apprentices Wanted.
November 3. fittutf
To be Sold,
The time of a Negro Boy,
About fifteen jears of age, has (even years yet
to tcive ; he is an excellent house servant, atSlive
andheahhy. Enquire ef the Printer.
December 1.
By John Fenno, N a 119 Chefnut Street.
FreQi R.aifms.
A.SriaH juft arrived, andnfcw landing
at Chefnut drcet wharf, from ;he sloop Ya
rico, capt, Haskell, confiO.ißg of Boxes and
Jars. A few Jars of excellent Or apt?, and flicks
of fofe shelled Almonds.—Apply to the Mailer
on board, or to
• yosi-'j{ntMny*hf Co.
•December 19 §ft
Philip Nicklin Go.
HAVE fOR SALE,
At their Stores on Walnut street Wharf,
HavaftnahSugars, whiteandbrown
25 hhds. Jamaica do.
3000 pieces of broad Nankeens
Imperial Tea, in quarters and eighths of chefta
Quicksilver in tubs
Madeira Wine in pipes and hogsheads '
Teneriffe Wine in pipe?
Ofd led Fort Wine in hogsheads
Sail Canvass, alforted, No. I to S
8 cases of Manchester Goads, eonUQing of Dimities,
Muflinets, Ginghams,Thickfctts, Corduroys, &c.
200 crates Queens' Ware, alforted
Kills, aflorted
Black quart Bottles
Yellow Ocre in caiks
A quantity of writing Slates, slate Ink Stands, &e.
100 quarter caflcs Gun Powder
Ibrt Ij*< mJJo fttr SALE or CHARTER,
TheJhip MOLLT, burthen 340 tons, a
good vefl.l, and completely fttceil.
The brig AMAZON, burthen 1300 bar
rels, maybe ready lor l'ca in a few days.
The whole of the above veffeis to be seen at
"Walnut street Wharf. 5 nnv IC.
A pei ion well acquaiated with
thf theory and praaiceofUiok-kcepinCtWhohasfceen
manyyearscngaged inbufinehfyr himfelf andothers,
would be glad t« osemployed, »(teni
or faflor"; or- in paftif>£ boolu ; flitinj unsettled
accounts ; or in executing airy* other kind of writ
ing, in French orKngliSi.
A note addrelfed to J. A. and left at this office,
will be punctually attended to.
November 30. Jawtf
' FOU SALE, at
Wm. Young's BookStore,
No. 52, Second llreet, the comer of Chefnut street,
REPORT of the Committee of the Houfc of
Representatives of the United States, appoint
ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
againu WILLI AM BLOUNT, a Senator of the
United States, impeached of high crimes and mis
demeanors, made in pursuance of a resolution of
the Hoyft of Representatives, authorizing the said
Committee to fit during the recefc of Congress, and
Inftrufling them " to enquire, and, by all lawful
" means, to difcovcr the whole nature and extent
" of the offence whereof the laid William Blount
" ft and s impeacheand wuo are tfw parties and
" aflociates therein."
Printed by order of the House of Representatives.
December 20. §
James C. Samuel W. Fisher,
AT THE R STORE,
N0.513, corner of Arch and Front streets,
BAVt /OK SALE,
Cotton and worlled Hosiery in trunk s, aflorted
A few bales red, white, and yellow FlanneU
Ditto fu'ty romall ManUkerclUCflf
Ditto Pollicat (ilk ditto
Ditto Pondicherry and Madrafs ditto
Ditto Gurrahs
Bengal black Taffetics
4000 picc« Nankeens, and
Few chells best Hyson Tea
AHfo —1 too box s bell London Window Glass,
from 8 by 6, to 19 by 14—and 15 hhds. Glaf.
Ware, assorted, which they will dispose of cheaper
than any in the city,
noveniler aB. flawtf
Landing this day,
From on board the schooner Two Friends, Dan
iel Crawley, Mafler,
80 hhd». and 1 J amaica RUM,
I% pipes ) J 7
FOR SALfc BY
George Latimer tif Son.
uovember 9. j
James Richard Smith,
npAK.E the liberty of informing their friends
1 and the public, that thoy have removed their
(lora to No. 54, South Front firett, next door to Bd
ward Fox's Auction Room, where they have, at
this time for sale, a large and general assortment of
European & Eajl India Goods,
Many of which are just imported in the Clothier,
William Pcnn, &e. kc.
Oft'. 27. ' ■ t
NOW LANDIW6,
At South-street Wharf,
The Cargo of the Ship Concord,
' Captain Thoinpfoß, from Batavia.
About 300 tons firft quality Java Coffee (the
whole having been fele<9cd)
80 tons Java Sugar, in caniflert and bag*
10 legurcs of old Arrack
Nutmegs, Mace and Cloves
f0& sAlt bt
PETER BLIGHT.
Who also nffirs For Sale,
Jufl landed from (hip Amity, from J atresias.
20» hhds Jamaica Sugar, aad
170 do. do. Rum.
November 23. . d'6w
Canal Lottery—No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, the zoth
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven I)Man, at Wm. BLACKBURN ji Lottery
and Broker# Office, No. 64, South Second-llreet—
Tickets iu the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Tin
Dollars, whete check books are kept lor regifler
ing and examining in these, the City 0' Waihing
ton, No. 11. and Haterfon Lotteries, atld informa
tion where tickets may be had in moll of the Lotte
ries authorifedby law in any the States of the
Union.
N. B. The bufineft of a Biok.ii, in buyingafld
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difcountng Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, House?, &c. &c. will diily attended to,
by Wm. BLACKBURN.
November 15 • L § r
The Hillory of Pennsylvania,
BY ROBERT PROUD,
Ig now in the prefa, and will be published,
with all convenient expedition, by ZfcCH a
riah PoulsoH, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed proposals, until the
work is ready for the fubfcribera.
July 18. _ 23 wtf
Bank of North America.
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, that an
«l&Sten for twelve Directors, for the ensuing year,
will he held at the Bank on Monday, t]ie Bth of
Janiia: y next, at ten o'clock.
RICHARD WELLS, Cashier.
December I tC dtjgthj
and Schuylkill Canal.
THB Stockholdei's are hereby notified, that the
ele&ion for President and Managers, for the ensu
ing year, will be held at the company's office, on
the firft Monday in January next, at 10o'clock,a.m.
WM. MOORE SMITH, Sec'ry.
December IX. mw&ftiftrj
Schuylkill and Sufquehanna Canal.
THE Stockhojders are hereby notified, that the
eitilion for President and Managers for the enfu
ingyear, willbeheld at the company's office, on
th? firft Monday in January next, at 10 o'cluck,
a. m. Dec. 11. mw&ftiftmj
Pennsylvania Population Com
pany.
THE Shareholders are hereby notified, that an
Elr&ion of Officers for the ensuing year, will be'
held at the Company's office, north Fourth
street, on Wednesday, the 10th day of January
next, at 12 o'clock.
By order o the Board,
SOL. MARACHE, Sec'ry.
December eodtlothj
Infyrance Company of North
America.
THE Stockholders arc hereby informed, that a
dated meeting of the Company will be held at
their office on the ninth day of January next (be
ing the second Tuesday in the pionth) for the Eiec
tioft of twenty-five Directors for the ensuing year.
EHJiN. HAZARD, Sec'ry.
December 14. thStrntpthl
Philadelphia and LancafterTurn
pikc Company.
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, that the
annual Ele<slioD for Officers fer the ertfuing
year,will be held at the Company's Office in Phila
delphia, oh the second Monday in January next, at
10 o'eUck, a. m. Wm. GOVETT, Sec'ry.
December 7. 2ts mScwt7j
Insurance Company of North
America.
A Meeting of roe Stockholders is to be held, a
greeably to adjournment, at the Company's office,
on the fir ft Monday in January next, at 11 o'clock,
A. 11. EBEN. HAZARD, Sec'ry.
December 14- th&mtlftj
Insurance Company
OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
'"T 'HE Stockholders are hereby notified, that an
JL Eledion for thirteen Dlredors to serve for
one year, will be held at the company's Office, on
Monday, the eighth day of January uext, at, 11
o'clock.
SAM. W. FISHER, Sec'ry.
December 14 dtßthj
A Fifty Dollar Bank Note,
Of the Buik of the United States, was loft 011 Sa
turday last, between the Ba«k of the United States
and the Horse market—lf an honed person. has
found it, and will leave it with the Printer hereof;
they (hall be handsomely rewarded.
December 11. eodjt
N O T I C E.
To holders of JAMES GREENLEAPs
and EDWARD FOX's Engagements
IN conl«iMetice of many having been prevent
ed, from late unavoidable circutnftances from
obtaining t*ieir Certificates, agreeable to former
notice. TheTruflees now informthenv, they
are ready to issue the iarae to those who may ap
ply within'fixtvdays, at No. 8 Chefnut Street,
and those who do not, will be confidercd as re
linquishing their claim on the Aggregate Fund
provided for their payment.
HENRY PRATT,
THCMAS VV. FRANCIS,
JOHN MILLER, JUN.
JOHN ASHLEY,
JACOB BAKER.
December 15.' ! dfiot
For Sale by the Subscribers,
Prime Rice in whole and half tie reef
Baiitdeaux Brandy
Tttirrijfe IVine
Molajfes
Georgia atld Carolina Indigo 3
Ravens Duck and one hugfhead "cf pai'it
brushes.
N. Cs* J. Frazer,
AV. Sontb Front Street.
Nov. 7. dim-
MUSIC.
J. L. LENZj
ol Voe|l and instrumental Music,
ETURNS hisfincere thanks to the Ladies and
. Gentlemen, from whom be received a very
liberal encouragement since his refidcnce in tins ci
ty, aad relpe&fully informs hisffiendsand the pub
,lie generally, that, in cenfequpnce of the request
of feme of his friends, he has opened a MuCcal
School at hisboufoin Syrace Street No 17 4,where
he will teach on'the Piano forte, Vioiui &c. &c.—
He deems it unnecessary to enlarge upon the ad
vantages the learner will derive from an inflituti
on of this kind; be will only fay, that attention
and zeal are much "extited in an affsmbly, where
numbers are in purfnit of the fame objeS. His
arrangement is fnch, that an interference of the
the different sexes will be avoided. Those Ladies
and Gentlemen who cannot make it convenient to
attend at his school, he will wait upon at their
houfts. Applications will be thankfully receiv
ed at hit hqufe, where bis terms and further parti
cular may be known.
Dec. 7. *lwcod
Alphabetical Lift of Duties,
Payable by law on all Goods, Wares, and Mer
chandize, imported into the United States—latest
edition, to be fold by JOHN OR.MROD, n0..41,
Cbofnut street. Dac 16— d
STOLEN
Out of the fubferiber's office a large blue
clolhclyil,\\?\{ worn. Theinfidcof the@ollar
is facftd partly with fcarlct velvet and partly
with fcarlct cloth, and it has a silver hook
and chain 33 a fattening. A suitable reward
will be paid for restoring it.
WILLIAM MEREDITH
No. j j 1 South 3d Street.
Dec. 16. diw
A House in Burlington for Salt.
I" 1 Hl} lubfcriber has a large, convenient two
ftory brick House, with Stables, Carriage
houfe, and a well improved Garden, in the City
of Burlington, New-Jersey, which he withes to
stLL, For terms apply at No. 5, South Fourth
ftrcet, to GEORGE WALKEK,
JVbo has ajfo for Sale ?
Lots in Washington City,
Contiguous to the Capitol and to the principal
harbour.
December ai.
CLERKSHIP. ~~
A YOUNG MAN, who could bring indispu
table recommendations, ( is defirousto be cm
ployed in the capacity of copying Clerk, at a publie
office—He would engage on moderate terms.
For further particulars enquire at xl c office of t
Gaze: " ; - § Dec ,9
foFJTIe, "
By JOHN MILLER, jun. Zsf Co.
No. 8, Cholcut-fcrcet,
Otis hundred and eighty bales
BENGAL GOODS,
Amongfi which are,
Guwahs Mamoodies
Baftas Sann?.s
CSiiszchalis Tanda Cofiaes
Guzzics Enverrics
Blue Cloths Calicoes
PaJampoors Romall Handkei chiefs
Amohgtt them are a great proportion oi tha
manufactures of Patna.
December 1. j
All Persons
Having any demands 4ga : nfl the Eflate of the
late Captain George irwiy, are neqiitlleU to
liring in their accounts pioperly satisfied, on or
before the firft day of (January next enluirg
anrt-rtiofirvrho anH«rtebted to ferri eitete are fa
tinted to make immediate payment to
oAUAH 1R WJN, Administratrix.
Nov. 19 *797. (J
JUST RECEIVED,
(via New-York)
and now opening, by
George Dob son,
No 15, fe-uth Third street,
An extensive and general ailortment of
HABERDASHER,Y, viz.
Bcfl London mixt Pins Galloons and Ferrets
Common do. do. Worded Binding, afTor-
Makenzie'ifuptr, patent ted colours
white chapel Needles Imperial, diaper, and
Nuns Thread no. 6to Thread Tapes
40, regularly aborted Wh.ite Edgings
Lisle do. no. j3O to 500, Blaak nd coloured Chi.
regularly assorted nefe Ribbands
Coloured do. Sattin ar.d figured do.
BJaek sewing Silks Black Velvet, 1-4 to lad
Coloured do. and Twill Velvet fiz pelon Sattiss
Silk and cotton Wires French Cambrlck
Do. do. Ribbands Scotch do.
Shirt Moulds and Wires Plain gilt and plated
Black brulh Feathers ' Buttor.9
And 3 compleat aflortment of Goods, suitable
to the prslent and approaching feifon, at rcduc«d
P ricg * Dec, 6. dtf
THt PARTNERSHIP Or'
Richard Es° James Potter,
IS this day djflblved, by mutual consent. All
persons indebted to the said firm, are r<-<juc.(led
to pay the fume to either of the fubferibers; and
ajl persons having any demand* sgalnft them, are
requeued to fend their accounts for fettlcratrt.
*" Richard Potter,
James Potter.
December 9. §
The Subscriber intends to make
application for the lencwal of a Certificate of a S>haie
in the Bank of the United States, ftandin K iri the name
o;A.B. No. 4004, dated July 11, 1 7g7 , the fame
having been lo|t, JOHN GRAHAM.
Richmond, Dec. 1.
ROSS SIMSOir ~
HAVfr FO* SAtE,
A few hales Baftas, GofTas, and
a quantity of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR ? in tags and boyes
Jamaica, S
St. Vincent!, £ RUM.
and Bengal j
300 ca(ks RICE,
A parcel of (hip building RED CEDAR.
oa. *7- , ■ £
Chocolate and Mustard,
of a superior quality manufactured,
GINGER and Pepper, ground ; shelled or
pearl Barley ; Philadelphia Porter, ■ Beer,
Ale and Cyder j Taunton and Burton A'*" ;
London Porter ; red. Fort and Lilbou Wine,
suitable for exportation or home coafumption.
The highest pi ice given for Multard-Secd.
jifo for /ale, A quantity of Backing and
common Baizes, a variety of colors ; a bale of
F'jftians, Shawls, &c, for Yale by
JOHN HA WORTH,
No. 98, south Front-lireef,
X°v- a 7. m.&th.t.ij.
Imported (via New York) on the
fliip Hero, from Madras and Calcutta, and for
sale by the fubferiber, at No. 61, Chefnut street,
between Second and Third Streets, the follow
ing articles .
Maharagonges Charconna Dorens
Chintz and Calicoes Dacca worked muflini
Gil lis Romal* Bandannoes
Nillas & Penfiafoes Chafla Romala
Blue cloth Hair ribbon
Muil Muilhankerchiefs Paiempores
Patna do. Banajres Opium
Leflbr Cardimum Seeds.
Samuel Wilcox.
novemher 17 tuth» 4 w
To Gentlemen who intend fpendhig
the Winter in the City.
ROOMS to LET,
WITH or without Board—at No. 114, corner
of Sixth and Race Streets. The situation
agreeable—and vicinity has been free from the late
j contagion. Oct.a7 dtf
BY virtue of an order ef the Orphan's Court,
will be eipofeff to Sale, on the 26th current,
at 9 o'clock, A. M. at the premises, afmallframe
House and Lot, fituatcd on the corner of Spruce
and Eighth streets, fubjeil to an annual ground
rent of fifteen pounds, late the property of An»
thony Lebcck. deceased. •
MARGAREI LEEECK,
Decsajbcr 16.
[Volume XllTO BE LET,
And pofiTcfiinn given the ill |amiai'y,
The House No. 107, Areh-llreet,
Near the corntff of Third £>trect —For further
jr.-Mculars, enquire as above, or at N'o* S3, Vine 7
S rcet. v=:
Oecember 27
Office of the Insurance Company E
OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA" '
IN consequence of, an appiicarton froryi a pumber
of Proprietors of Stock, ma le agreeably to the
ail of incorporation, a general meeting' of the J
StockhpHcr* is particularly requcfted on Wedntf w
day, the 3d January next, at 11 o'clock, at the
oinc-j oh the Company
SAM. W. FISHER, Scc'ry.
December i 6. dtjJ J d
Hyson and Young-Hyson Teat e
A few chefl? of excellent Quality, For Sale, cor
ner oF Second and P«»« ftret ts. 1.
December 26. cots 1
Prifo"n Manufactory. h
FOR SALE, t
At thePrifon of the City and County of Philadel- a
phia, £
C?ut Nails of all (izes, from 3dy to 2ody
Flooring Bracta. Springs fiddle and card Tacks
Oakum and chippr ! Logwt od n
Shoemakers and Sailers Thread fc
Alfo —Sawed* Marble; fuirahie for citrrirrV tabl<% a
tomb and hear Rones, hearth*, chimney pieces,
pia;»onrs, slabs, facia, window hea-K fUls, c .
AH which may he had on reai'onable. terms, c
Shoe* male and Weaving done at said Prison at
r m v'eratc price. c
Orders fro-n a direiled to Daniel Tho- f
mas, a*>eat i'or the pri(un, will be attended to. j
Dtfcembcf 26 mth6m
L EFT ;
At Aldcrman'Bedford's office, Lombardftrtet,
No. 88, ibout three weeks jpo, a whole piece t
of cotton, supposed to he (lolen-r*ny person
having loft tht lame, proving property' and pay
ing charges may have it again.
I)ere>i«ber 26. *eo.it. 1
Sele£t Subscription Balls.
NEW ASSEMBLY ROOM, l
South Fourth Hreet, btfvccn Chcfaut ani Wililut
flrtets.
MX.fRANCIS ref[ic(flfully informs th« fubferi- t
bern to tba a'jov ■ Balls, that the firft will be I
on Tucfilay, the »d of January, 1798.
a few names to the Seleist Subscription BalU (
will be admitted,»by jjiplication to Mr. Francis, 30.
70, north Eighth (Ireet. 1
Terms of fubfeription—each fubferiber to pay £
Five Dollars, which entitle* him to a Gentleman'* j
Ticket, and cards of adroiffion for two l.adie», to
each of the four Balls—The Balls to be htld every
othei Tuesday.
The number of fubferibers to be limited to forty. '
Sublcribers' Tickets will be ready for delivery <
on Saturday the 30th inft. \
Mr. Francis's days of teaching for his young ,
pupils sre Thnrfdays and Satuidays from 3 o'clock _
11 the altiTnoon till 6, ani from 6 till 9 for those '
of a more advanced age. Private tHition either at 1
the /XfTcmlily Royrh, or at his House No. 70 ]
North Eight Street. ]
N.B. Due notice will be given of Mr. Francis's
fbcond PraiSiQng Ball.
Dec. a 6. itiij
flow LANDING,
From on hoard the Clip Farmer, lying at Harper's
Wharf,
Clafet in hhds.
Ditto in cases
Sjuternc Wine in do.
For Sale, apply to
John Whitefides & Co.
No. 138, Market-street.
Also, on hand,
Bourdeaus Brandy in pipes
Fine old Antigua Kum
A few cales of Claret, of a superior quality.
novomb'T ao. _ §
English Urammar,
The fccond cdiiion, 'with improvimcnls,
ADAPTED to the .lifierenr chffes of learners;
with an appendix, containing rules and ob
servations for affiftiog the more advanced students
1 to write with perfpiruity and accuracy,
By LINDLEY MURRAY.
" This is a publication of much merit, and fully
answers the profeflions ill the Title. The appen
dix contains fume of the bed rule* for writing a-
Jcgantly, and with propriety, that we recoiled to
have seen."
Mssthly Rr-vii'<w, "July 1796.
" 1 his Grammar is, 0:1 many iccounts entitled
to commendatory netice, its mateiiaJs have been
carefully and judiciously felefted ; its arjangement
is diftind and well adapted to the purpole ol in
flrudtion and its exnreffion i* Cmple, pcripicuous
and accurate, Stc<."jA'
See the cbarafier at large in the Analytical
1 Rcvieiu, y«!y 1796
English Exefcifes,
Adapted to the Grammar lately publifted by
I.indley Murray, confiding of exemplification of
the parts of fpeeeh, inftancesof falfe orthography,
violations of the rules of syntax, defe«is in punc
tuatior, and violations of t!.ie rules r-efpeiling
pcrfpicuity and accuracy, designed f«r the benefit
' of private learntrs, as well as for theufe of schools.
" W« have been much pleased with the petuUl
of thefc ExercHes. They occupy with distinguish
ed excellence a most important place in the fciencc
of the English language; and as such, we con
warmly recommend them to the Teachers of
Schools, as well as to all those who are delirous of
attaining correotnefs and preciiion in their native
tongue." 1
MonthlyJlevieiu, Jnly 1797.
The above Books are for sale at Joseph & James
Crukshanks book flors, No. 87, Market flrect.
December I. atawaw.
For Sale, by the Package,
For cash, or good notes at sixty or ninetydays,
viz.
Book and Jaconet Muslins plain ")
stripes, and Checks ! Afibrttd in
do. do. Tamboured oarkace*.
do. Ladies handkerchiefs, & | P k
gentlemen's neck do. J
Jaconet chintz muslin for home and the Weft
liidin market, Pullicote and linen handkerchiefs,
for do. do printed do. do. common purple and
chintz-(b»wl».
The above goods entitled to drawback on ex
portation. Alio a few scotch cambricks and an
afibrtment of muslin by the piece.
The whole of the above being a consignment
from the manufacturers in Britain.
To be seen at William Biackburn's r
Office, No. 64, South Second Street.
Nov. 6. i
- :
A Front Room, suitable for an
Office or Counting house, with a large Cellar.
Any person who may rent the above, may (if re
quired) be acccfnmpdated with Board and Lodg
ing in the fame house. Enquire at no. 180, South
Front, near Pine ftrcct. j
December ij. 3 aw 3 w
iz%c<saism.- J v
——»■ iv
PHILADELPHIA,
TfTtJRSDAY .EVENING,' a3- ; t
- • ■• -- -' ~ - ; i
(TRANSLATION.)
Extract from the regilters of the defibera- ' c
tions of the eommiffion delegated by the <
French government to the Windward ,
Iflandi. <
The commissioners, considering that their i
decree of the 23 Floreal, iri the 4th year, by j
which they take upon themselves the judg
ment of prizes, had been approved by the
executive direflory who had confidtifed the
difficult fituatipn of the eommiffion 2
Considering that the refutation of the
executive direftory dated 14 meffidor, in the
4th year, enjoining the agents of the repub
lic to treat neutral vessels in the fame man
ner as they fuffer the English to treat them,
has been the only guide of the eommiffion
for upwards of a year past, during which
they hare been left to themfelvas, without
any kind of succour, and even, without in
formation from the government :
Considering the present condition of the 1
northern part of the colony, conftantlv ,
blockaded for upwards of a twelvemonth by
an English squadron who do not permit to
enter in our ports any but such as may'ef- ;
cape their rapacity : .
Considering that the Englilh, regardkfs
of neutral flags and of the laws of nations,
stop all American veflels laden with provi
sions bound for the ports of the colony, and
carry them into the Mole, where a great
number of them are condemned :
Considering that the decrte of the execu
tive directory, dated 12 Ventofe last, com
municated by admiral Barney excites the,
eommiffion to (often the measures which had
been founded on the examples given by the
English relative to neutrals—
Yet the eommiffion, desiring to conform
not only to the orders, but likewise to the
intentions of the executive directory, when
the fame (hall come to their knowledge—
have decreed and do decree as follows :
Art. 1, The decree of the eommiffion
dated 18 Nivofe last, declaring good prize
neutral vessels expedited for English ports,
and coming from the fame, is hereby re
pealed.
2d. And nevertheless, by way of re- I
prifal with regard to the English, who, in
contempt of the laws of neutrality daily take
out of th«ir course, neutral vessels bound for
the French port 6 of the colony, when laden
with provisions, the French privateers are
authorized to take into the ports of the re
public, neutral refWs bound for English
ports when laden with provisions, and there
shall be paid to the said privateers by way
of indemnity, one dollar for each barrel of
flour and salted flefh meat which shall be in
troduced.
3d. The decree ef the eommiffion dated
the 6th Nivofe last declaring good prize neu
tral vessels deflfned for the ports of the Lee
ward and Windward Islands of America,
given up to the English, occupied and de
fended by the, emigrants, shall continue to
be executed according to its form and
until otherwise ordered by the commiflon.
4th. There shall be formed at the town
of the Cape a court composed of three judg
es and one reporting secretary, whieh court
(hall be charged with proceeding to the
judgment of rhe prizes, and matters incident
to and depending thereon, of which infor
mation shall have been given by the justices
of the peace, granting to them for this pur
pose, every necessary authority, jurifdiftjon
and cognizance.
sth. The eommiffion have appointed and
do appoint the citizens Adelon, captain de
Vaiffeau in the service of the republic ;
James Hngues, nephew, merchant at the
Cape ; Cormaux, the elder, lawyer and no
tary at the Cape, judges of the said tribu
nal ; have named and do name citizen Po-.
, lony, the elder, lawyer, and interpreter of
the \ English language, reporting secretary
of the said tribunal, without having a delib
' efative voice therein.
I 6th. The secretary shall report to the
said court the business which shall be bro't,
as well as the oppofitionß and incidents
■which may be presented to it ; and the
. Judgments therein rendered on the fubjett
; of the said prizes (hall be by Kiir> delivered,
, and he shall be allowed a commiflon for the
more speedy expedition of the business, and
: the minutes of the said judgments and all
the papers relative to the prizes shall be de
-1 posited by the said secretary among the ar
- chives of the eommiffion.
7th. The judges of the peace shall fend
J to tht said secretary the proceedings of in-
I formation and all the papers found on beard
: of the said prizes, and the secretary shall
keep an exaft account of all the proceed
ings sent to him, and of the day on which
* he ffiall have rec«ived them ; and they shall
proceed in the following decade at fartheft,
to the judgment of the prize, unless a claim
ant should present himfelf.
Bth. The judgment of the prize court
(hall be submitted to the revision of the eom
miffion.
9th. The members of the said prize court
/hall tax the judgments according to equity
and good conscience, and shall be held to
write wi|h their hands, on the minutes of
the judgments on which they shall take em
oluments the taxes they shall have imposed,
and the said judges aid secretary of the said
n court shall receive no other compensation
than those allowed them by the present ar
t j tide.
I 10th. The allowance of the the two and
8 ' a half per cent, to the justices of peace by
' the arret of the 26 Frimaire in the sth
- year is and shall be reduced to one per cent.
( only, for all the expences of sale and liqui
-1 dation of the prize—nevertheless, the said
judges shall continue to be paid as hitherto,
- for their time in proportion to the inftruc
' tions with which they shall be charged.
1 nth. Communication shall be made to
! the prize court of all the paprri deposited
amorig the archives of the de
which may serve it as instructions. wi
The present decree shall be printed, put?-, T
lifhed,"&c; or
Done as the Cap« the 27th Vendcmaire, so
• 6th year of thi' French republic, one and it:
i itidivifible, tl
I Signed on the register of the minutes,the Ii
j commiffioaer of the French government, di
< RaIMOND. ill
1 The gaueral secretary, Pascal. tl
' True Copy, it
j (Stamp) n
The gsneral feGretary of the commission,
PASCAL. jc
T
Fnm iht Philadelphia Gazette. fj
MR. brown, ri
From the report of the secret committee, e
' now pubbfhtd' by order of the Houfc of Re- tl
prcfcn!atiVcs'', it appears, page 14. that on v
■ the iathofjuly the Spaniih minister, the b
1 Chevalier d'Yrujo, called on the committee J
1 anct made a communication marked A.B.C, v
1 in the appendix to (the report, page 133. si
t and of which the following is an exact tranf- d
- lation. viz. c
" Copy of a declaration made to the minister t
■ of his Catholic 3fujejly, by Citizen Mitchell, f
' an inhabitant if the State of Teneffee."
1. That there have been inTifted by the {
1 person called: Chidiolm,an English.agent and t
■ an inhabitant of Teneffee, 1000 inhabitants 1
of" that state, who are deftkied for an at- t
■ tack on the ports of Baton Rouge of Nc<w {
1 Gates and of Eiors a Marfot." 1
2. " That Chifholm has reconnoitered
i the whole of Louisiana and of the two Flo- t
t ridas, and has takan ftrps for engaging the t
Creek and Cherokee Indians to turn their ]
■ arms against the Spanish possessions." 1
3. " That Chifholm has obtained a lift, (
e which he now holds, of 1500 Tories, or <
i English royalists at the Natches, who have 1
e engaged to take up arme in favour of the •
English the moment they /hall appear to at
a tack Lower Louisiana, and to inarch from ]
e thence against Santa Fe." i
1 4. " That there is now affeaibling, on 1
- the Lakes, a force Composed of 500 English
regulars, 700 Canadian militia in pay, and
1 2000 Indians to be commanded by captain
e Brandt."
i, 5. " That this force is to descend the II
:- linois river, and attack St. Louis and New-
Madrid : from whence, following the eourfe
- of the river St. Francis, and Ackanfas, it
n i- to march against Santa Fe." •
e 6. " That Chifholm has procured fix field
r pieces, the fame which were to have been
n employed in Genet's expedition, and has
e lodged them in the hands of his agents on
:- the Teneffee river."
h 7. " That the rendezvous for the A
e mericans, is fixed at Knoxville on theTen
y iieffee, on the firft of Joly."
if 8. " That consequently Chifholm, who
1- has made the proper dispositions on all these
heads, and reported them to the minister
d Lifton, who was to take his passage on the
I- 28th of March from Philadelphia to London
on board of a 'vcfCrl cleared out for Hambro'
i, in order to commuiucate his proje& to the
government* aJid d?n»and ships and money
o for its exaction.? m
r, 9. " Finally, as proof of what he has al
i. ledged, Citizen Mitchell placed in my hands
n an official letter from Chifholm, a copy of
r- which is hereiHito annexed."
rt Done at Philadelphia, July 12. 1797.
le This date of July 12th 1797 evidently
it refers to thetiisewben the Chevalier d'Yrujo
r- made a copy of this communication for the
cs of being presented to the Commit
r- tee, and not to the time when the commu
>n nication itfelf was made to him This copy,
which I have examined, is in the hand-wri
id ting of the Chevalier .* and as appears by
le the report as ahove cited, was presented to
:; the committee the next day; viz : July 13
le There is in tire margin of the paper, a note
o- alio in the hand writing of the Chevalier
II- d'Yrujo, which by some accident does not
o-. appear in the printed copy, and which dates
jf that the communication was made by Mitch
ry ell to the miniftrr on the 20th of March
b- This diftinftian of dates is important; and
it is further confirmed by thecommuiiication
iie itfelf ;fin the eighth clau(e of whichit isftat
t, ed, " that Chifholm, having made his dif
ts positions See. tuet 'U fail from Philadelphia
ic to London ow the 28th of March. The
dt term " was tofail" (devoit pariir) manifeftly
d, refers to a future day; and consequently the
he communication was made brfart thu 28th of
id March, and while Chifholm <was flill in Phi
ill ladelphia. This also is a circumstance im
le- portaut to be remarked. It is, moreover,
ir- the Chevalier d'Yrujo, having
received this communication on the 2D th of
nd March, as appears from the above mention
n- ed note, must have known that Chifholm
rd was to remain in Philadelphia 8 days after
all this disclosure of his designs took place,
d- Why then did not the Chevalier d'Yrujo
ch commtnicate this discovery to our govern
all ment on the 20th of March, and in-all the
ft, details in which he had received it ? Chi
na- fholm was yet in Philadelphia, and might
have been arretted. The difpatehes with
irt which he was charged might have betn ex
m- amined. The whole scheme might have
been arretted and broken up in its infancy,
irt Was it so uninteresting to us, that the mi
ty nifter of afriendly nationcould have thought
to it not worth difelofing ? Certainly net;
of for it was, if real, to involve our neutrality
m- and out peace-; and even if fidtitious, as in
d, all its most material parts it has appeared to
lid be, still it mightJbecome the ground of mif
on understanding and jtaloufies between us and
ar- our neighbours, and a motive, or a pretext
for delaying the executioh of our treaty with
nd hi§ own nation.
by In this latter way we find that he adtual
tb ly did use it. Tnftead of difelofing it to our
it. own government, which could have crushed
ui- it at once, he concealed it from us, and loft
lid no time in notifying it to the Spanish gov
to, ernor of Louisiana, who immediately nwde
»c- it a pretext for retaining the forts, and re
fufing to execute any part of the treaty. -
to It is evident therefore tha't the Spanish mi
ed nifter did not wish to fee Chifholm's projedts
defeated, but to find in them a pretext for po
withholding the posts on the. Mfiifippi.— go
There is little doubt of his being under the ha
orders of a malignant Frenchman, known vvc
for his unbounded hatred to this country and j M
its government; and generally considered as trj
the secret agent of France in this country, an
In this tpnfadtion therefore we may plainly wl
discern the traces of French hostility and br
intrigue, which, for.the piirpofe of ruling pa
this country, unceafisgly attempts to excite w!
its people against its government, and so- th
reign nations against the country itfelf. j th
Should itbefaid that the Chevalier d'Yru- th
jo did give our government this information hi
' I answer, No. On the second of March he b)
spoke to the Secretary of (late of " the just so
reasons which he j.ad for fufpedb'ng that an is,
expedition was preparing on the Lakes oh w
the partof the English," the objedt of which di
was " to attack upper Louisiana, and take,
: by furpril'e, the posts of St. Louis and New it
: Madrid," and declared that the proofs m
, which he had been able to obtain after the k
firft verbal mention of that fubjedt, a few at
■ days before,had confirmed him in his fufpif- ifr
cion that the Erigli£h troops, meditatiug j a]
• this Coup-de-Main, intendedtopafs through ci
, some parts of our territory. al
In answer to this he was assured by the ( p
: Secretary of state, on the nth of March, c;
1 that the government of the United States ' el
s had no knowledge of any circumstances in- ti
- dicative of such a design, and would pur- n
> sue all proper measures for protedting the ;f<
neutrality of their territory. ' o
1 Nothing further passed on the fubjedt till k
- the 21 ft of April fallowing, one month as- d
: ter the Chevalier d'Yrujo had received o
r Mitchell's communication, and twenty-three id
days after the time at which, as he knew, 1<
, Chifholm was to fail for London. On that a
r day, he wrote a second letter to the Secret
e tary of state, which is in the following a
e words : r
" Whilst I possess new reasons for be- p
(l Jieving that it is intended to carry into ef
fect the expedition agarntt Upper'Louifiana c
n on the part of the English, by violating the r
h territory of the United States, as was man- I
d ifeftec} to you in my letter ofthp2dof March r
n last, I must add that I know, to a'certainty, t
that the English have made propositions to t
1- general Clark, of Georgia, in order to avail e
themselves of his influence in that state, to- e
"e ■ gether with some other persons, for mak
it ing a diversion, or serious attack, against
Florida ; and as by your letter of the nth
d of last month, you assure me that the Uni
n ted States would take theneceffary measures
is for causing their neutrality to be refpedted.
n Ido not doubt that in confequencc of this
my information, the executive government
l- will take proper steps, in order that Geor
l- gia also should not infringe the Jaws of neu
trality to the injury of the poffefiions of the
io king my matter."
fe Here there is not the smallest hint of the
er information received from Mitchell, which
le related to this very fubjedt, and which it
m was so important to ourgovernment to pot
s' fefs. No hint given of any details, nor
le is any single circumstance brought into view
:y whereby the government could be led to
fufpe6k that its own citizens were engaged
il- in the projeft ; or directed to the proper
is sources of information. By this condudt,
of which, to speak the 'most tenderly of it, was
most disingenuous and unfriendly, our gov
7. ernment was kept wholly in the dark about
ly a plot, of the most serious import to its in
jo terefts and its peace, which, to the knowl
:ie edge of the Spanilh minister, was then go
it- ing on, and which he was himfelf, using as
u- a pretext for refufing to execute a folemu
jy, treaty.
ri- Such, throughout this affair, has been
iy the conduct of this person, who with a neg
to left of decorum whereof diplomatic history,
[3 before the days of the French republic, ne
te ver furnilhed an example, has dared to infin
er uate that our government was desirous of
ot conniving at enterprises formed, in the
:es heart of our eountry, against, the poffef
h- Cons of Spain.
h Norhanhis conduit been ltfs marked with
nd a disregard of truth, than with a negleft of
on decorum. On the 26th of March 17971
it- the Secretary of state wrote to him, by or
if- der of the President, requesting to be in
iia formed what steps had been taken for with
he drawing the Spanish troops from th« posts
Jy on the Miffifippi, pursuant to our treaty
he with Spain, the ratifications of which had
of then been exchanged nearly eleven months.
hi- To this enquiry, on so important a fubjedt,
m- and from so refpedtable a quarter, he delay
er, cd to answer for more than a month ; a de
ng lay which the ordinary forms of civility be
of tween individuals, would have forbidden in
m- the cafe of a private note on the most triv
lm iaJ fubjedt. At length, on the 17th of A
ter pril, he answered in fourlines, faying " that
not having received letters from the gover
ijo nor of Louisiana for many montht, he knew
:n- nothing about the matter and that "an
he indisposition, from which he bad not yet re
hi- covered, had prevented him from replying
rbt sooner !" Prevented for a whole month,
th by an indijpo/itioa, from writing a note of
:x- four lines, in answer to an important en
ive quiry from the President of the United
;y. States ! Yet that indisposition neither con
ni- fined him to his house, nor prevented him
rbt from feeing Mitchell, on the 20th of March
st ; 4 days after the enquiry from the President
ity had been made, from examining him, and
in taking down his examination in writing, at
to considerable length, and with his own hand !
us- Such was the condudt of this person, who
md made it a pari of hr* insolent accsfations
:xt against the Secretary of state, that a cem
ith muiiication of his own, made on the idot
March, and requiring careful examination, ;
lal- was not answered till the nth of March;
aur although during this short period, of 9 days,
led one President had gone out o-f office and a- 1
[oft nother come in, aiid all the hurry of bufi
ov- ness attending the close of a fefGon yf eon
ade grefs had intervened !
rc- But why, it may be asked, did this min
ister depart from his system, and lay before
mi- the committee a copy of Mitchell's cusmmu
:dts nication ? It certainly was sot for the pur-
pose of giving information by which our
government might be enabled to aft ; for
had that been the motive, the disclosure
would have been made to the executive, ia
; March, while fchifholm was yet in the.coun
try, and with his papers, might have been
arretted. The information was withheld
when it might have been ufefal, and was
brought forward at a time when it wascom
paratively of little importance, at a time too,
when the explosion having taken place, and
the discovery being made by other means,
the Spanish niinifter might have supposed
that the best method of avoiding the poxTi
bility of appearing as a party in thebufinefs,
by reason of his concealment, wasto turn in
former, and tell what he knew about it. It
i is, probably, in this way of thinking that
i we mult search for the naotives of his con
i dust.
, As to th:s communication of Mitchell,
r it has appeared to bo utterly falfe in all its
3 mod material points. Every body now
; knows that no collection of troops ever was
r attempted on the lakes, or elsewhere on our
- i frontier, and not a fhadowof evidence has
r ; appeared to prove that Chifholm had pro- L
a cured any cannon, or engaged any persons,
at tlie Natches, or elsewhere, to join in his
e projedt, except fclount. The whole story A
, came from Chifholm, who told it to Mitch
s ' ell, and vvho, from the report of thecom
- rnitte?, and the examinations which are an
- ncxed to it, appearsto be a lying babbling
e ; fool, entitled to no credit or attention, nor
! obtaining any from a single person who
II knew him. And yet this is the story, thus
> derived, and thus supported, which, with
d out proof, without enquiry, and without
e 1 disclosure to our government by whom a
•, lone the proper enquiries could be
it and the proper steps taken, is madethe pre
text for refufing to execute a folealn nation
g al treify, whereon depends many important
rights and interests |"of two countries, and »
■- perhaps their peace.
f- The people of the United States will dif
a cern the hostile head whereby this machine
e ry is secretly moved; and while they cannot
l- help bestowing forae small portion of indig
h nation on the contemptible agent who is of
r, ttnfibly employed, they will find in these
0 tranfadtions, new motives for repelling, with
il energy and watohfulnefs, the open and c»n
-- eealed aggreflions of his dire&ers.
t . BIVIS.
ft .1.1
I 1 GONGRESS.
" HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
d. >
15 Delate on a motion to re-confider\the quejlion for
pofponing the consideration of a Bill supple
mentary to an AS for preventing certain *
u crimes aga'mjl the United States, pajfed June*
"" 5> 1 794' " n td thefirjl Monday in February.
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 26.
be
Mr. Shepard having made the motion on
the ground of mistake, and another mem
,f. ber who voted with him having seconded it,
or Mr. Pinckney said,. if the question were
, w to be re-considered, he fhouid wjfh to hear
t0 the reasons why gentleman wilted the !üb
e(J jest to be so long postponed. He thought
, er the provisions in this bill were much better
} than those which at present regulated the
, as arming of vessels :he wished, therefore,
, v _ that the business might net be so long defer
ut red. .
n . Mr. Otis hoped the vote would be re
,]. considered. He thought much less time
r Q . would be fufficient for gentleman to inverti
ng gate this fubje&. He wished that the bu
nH finefs might be coolly examined, and that
such measures might be Adopted, with ref
er, pe£t to the arming of our merchant vessels,
,g. as the good of the country required ; and
r y ; not, when a fubjedt of as great magnitude
le . as any which might be discussed during the
; n . session, was brought before the house, that
of the consideration of it should be postponed,
h e by a silent vste, for four weeks. He tho't
e f_ such a measure very extraordinary, and preg
nant with humility and disgrace to the
j t ]i country, at a time when our fuffering com
0f merce called aloud for proteftion. Whether
they would protest it or not, is a question
3r . which should be fairly considered aud deter
in. mined upoa , but, when a proposition was
th- was brought forward, which had a view to
,ft s this fubjeft, by what latent fear, he asked,
ity were gentleman palsied, that such a measure
IJt d should be thus procrastinated ?He invoked
h B . the Genius of the Country to rescue the
A Union from the disgrace which hung over
j V - over it ; that a time when the commerce of
d* e _ the Country, which had so greatly contri
be- bnted to its prosperity, lay prostrate, and
; n a bill was reported which had in view its
•iv. prottftion, a motion should be agreed to to
A- the consideration of it for four or
hat five weeks. He hoped gentlemen would
r e r- not persist in thus a&ing ;he wished as long
iew a time to be given as was necessary for
an confideringthe fubjeft, but notthat it should
re- be laid behind the curtain, on account of
ing any fears which gentlemen were unwilling
th, to disclose.
of Mr. Harper trufled his friend from Maf--
en- faehufetu, when he informed the house he
ted should be sgainfl reconsidering thr question
on- would not impute his eon4u£t to fear. He
lim voted for making this fubjeift the order of
rch the day for the firft Monday in February,
eftt not because he felt any fear, but he did it,
and and he should do it-agaio, because the Will
at brought into view a fubjsdt, for the difcuf
id ! fion of which they were not prepared. —
?bo" Why not prepared ? Becauff, at tie last
ons fefTioii, they had negatived,- contrary to
jm- his opinion of what ought to have been
[of done, the defenfive measures then pnipofed ;
On, I for he then thought, and continued to think
:h ; i that it would have been well to have follow
,ySj ed up pacific ftepsby energetic measures of
1a- defence. He did all he could to induce the
ufi- house to be of this opinion, but he was
on-' not fuccefsful ; and as it had been resolved
to leave the state of things as they found
iin- them he meant to adhere to this relolutior.,
'ore until he heard from oar negociators. When
nu- ever the time should come for this country
>ur- to trfke meafutts of defence, he truftcd his
" *friend from Massachusetts would not find
him behind hand ; if there was a neccGcy
for repelling force hebdieved there
would not be much difference of opinion in
the house on the fubjedl, at least he should
be feund ready so to determine. Bi,»t he
thought it would be Well to postpone the
farther coivfideration of this bill till the pe
riod proposed. If intelligence, in the mean
time, were received from our negotiators,
they could call it up foonerby a vote of the
house. Mr. H. fafd, when he gate his
vote, he understood the time to be the firft
Monday in January ; but he was well fa
tisfied to let the business stand as it was.
Mr. Rutledge did not think .the reasons
which his colleague had given fed- his vote
were fa w«ighty as those upon which he
generally adtcd. He reprefenttd this at a
hoftil* measure. For his part, he did not
view it in that light, but merely as a mea
sure of precaution. He believed the mer
chants had a right to arm, and he believed
they would arm; and he thought it right
for Congress to fay they should arm, only
under certain reftridlions; and he did not
think that a majority of that House, from
hearing the bill once read, could be prepar
ed to fay the reftridtions therein contained
were improper or incompetent, and that
the bill was incapable of being modified, in
such a way as to effedl the end proposed.
All that was asked for was my difcuffwn.
If, when it came to be examined, the Bill
could not be so modified as to answer the
purpose—or, if it should be thought that
war would be the probable consequence of
its adoption, then let it be rejedled. But
why, exclaimed Mr. R. in the name of Ci
vilty, of Politeness, of Prudence, may it
not be admitted to a discussion? He had
not longhad a feat in that House, but it
the firft time he had seen a fubjedt so
disposed of by a silent vote. His colleague
had said, theffubjetf, notwithstanding the
postponement, could at any time be called
up by a vote of the House; he alio knew,
that if an earlier day were fixed upon, it
could always be postponed, and this was a
mush mare usual course of acting. The de
lay wa3 proposed, it was faid,that we might,
in the mean time, hear fromottr Commiifion
eri. He thought so long a delay unnecessa
ry on this account. He expc&ed to bear
from them daily and hourly. The firft
easterly wind might waft their diff>atches to
hand. Bcfides, if they went on to mature
the bufincfs, and the negociation fliould ter
minate measures, no mifchief would have
been done; but if the negociation should
have a different termination, and they did
net go on with the bufincfs, so much time
would have been loft. He had little doubt
from the very prompt mode of negociation
pra&ifed in France, that the issue of our ne
gociation would not be long unknown; he
wished, however, their usual promptness
might not take place, and that we might
not receive quite so early intelligence. But
exclaimed Mr. R. is this a declaration of
war! No; though it might appear to be so,
from the strong fcuri of some gentlemen.
If the proposition were to go to war to-mor
row, thofeftars could not be -stronger; tho'
in reality, the question was no more than td
arm merchants vefltls against pirates; a
measure quite as fafe as arming persons for
their defence, when going into a back
country, against Indians or others who
» might attack them. The haufe had been
told some days ago, by a Gentleman from
Maryland, (Mr. S. Smith) w'nofe opinions
ou commercial fubje&s bad always great
weight, that some of bis constituents had
infilled upon their right to arm, that they
had armed, and they heard the consequence.
It was the wish of the friends of this Bill to
prevent th«fe sonfequences in future. He
hoped, thertfore, the question would he
reconftdered.
Mr. Brookes thought the day mentioned
too distant. It was five full weeks from
yesterday. He perfeftly agreed in senti
ment with the gentleman just fat down, and
would not, therefore, repeat what he had
said. He was sorry to find any alarm rais
ed upon reading a bill, purporting to be a
supplement to a former aft, as to the man
ner of arming private vessels against lawless
buccaneers. Why postpone the considera
tion of this fubjefk, until we hear from our
negoeiators ; fincej if a peace in Europe
were to take place to-morrow, some such
measure would be necessary, as our seas
would continue to be infefted witk marau
ders ? He was under no apprehension of a
hasty decision on this fubjeft. If the ques
tion was whether the bill should pass, there
might be some ground for alarm ; but to
be alarmed in the present stage of th« busi
ness, appeared as if they were afraid of do
ing any thing left they fkould offend the
powers at war. He should be the last man
to do any thing which should have a tenden
cy to involve the country in war ; but he
would not, from this fear, postpone « busi
ness with which no foreign nation had any
thing to do. H« was, therefore, for recon
sidering the question.
Mr. M'Dawell was not a little surprised
to hear gentlemen so warm ou the present
question, attributing fear to others, and be
llowing all patriotism upon themfeves. He
did not know how it could have happened
that fear could have so immediately got
pofleffien of a majority of the house on this
ocafion ; nor did he know how the gentle
man from Massachusetts (Mr. Otis) had
come by this information, that fear was the
impelling motive. Had he been as anxious
to be heard, and as capable of speaking as
that gentleman, he probably should not have
given a silent vote on the occasion ; but he
would inform that gentleman that many
who vtfted in the majority on this occasion,
•were incapable of adting from fear. This
queftionhad been discussed at the last feflion;
it was then determined spot to authorize a
nv arming which should endanger the peace
of the country. Negoeiators had been ap
pointed ; this negociation was now pend
ing, and taking up a fubjedl of this fort
might have an unfavourable effedl upon it.
It was, therefore, clear to him, that they
bad better postpone the difc&ffton, tifnil
they heard from France, which he did not
expect to do, so soon as the gentleman from
S. Carolina, (Mr. Rutledge) expedted.
Mr. Isaac Parker fa id, it was not the u
sual courfcof bufincfs, to postpone the dis
cussion of a bill to a. distant day, except it
were with a view of defeating it. A quef
tiori, then arose, what could be reason of this
postponement. The gentleman from N.
Carolina last up, had condescended to an
swer this question, by faying that it was
from the wish not to affedt our present nego
ciation. This could not possibly be the
cafe ; and he thought, on the contrary, that
this was the best possible time for taking up
this, or any other step which had relation to
the defence of oUr country. If they were
n<4 to pass a law for the defence of our citi
zens, because a negociation was pending
with a foreign country, the honour and in
dependence of the country were gone, and
they might as well cease to make laws at all.
The pending negociation would be fwccefs
ful or unfuccefsful. If fuccefsful, a law of
this kind would We necessary, as it was not
intended for the protedliion of our commerce
against any particular nation, but as a sys
tem of defence against the pirates of all na
tions. But suppose the negociation prove
unfuccefsful ; when wc know this, said he,
it would be too late to take the measure
proposed ; and our commerce will be whol
ly unproleded, and exposed to the depreda
tions of the French, or any other country.
He hoped, therefore, the question would
be re-considered.
Mr. Hartley was not for precipitating a
measure of so much importance as this was ;
but he thought the proposed poftponeme»t
too distant. He agreed with the gentleman
last up that they had a right to make the
proposed regulation, without having refpedi
to any foreign nation. The commercial inter
efts of this country seemed to call for fotne
measure of the kind. He hoped, therefore,
the queftign would be recon£dered, and
that they should make the bill the order of
the day forthefecond Monday in January.
Mr. Nicholas said, it was easy to discover, by
the manner in which gentlemen took up this bu
siness, that ther* was more in it, than they \yere
ready to acknowledge. He underflood it to" be
neither more nor lels than the question which was
argued at the last fefEon, and then negatived. If
he were not miflaken in this, it was for him to in
voke the Genius of America—to call down the
Guardian Angel of Peace—to invoke its aid a
gainst the designs which gentlemen seamed to have
on the prrfent oecalion. It was his opinion, that
a bufincfs of this fort, moved at the present day,
was ten times as objectionable, and had an appear
ance fen times as suspicious, as when lormer'y to
jefled. Were h; not juftified, then, in wishing
ehis question net to be agitated, when our Gtua
tion was no way more suited to such a measure
than when formerly di'culTcd ? To go into a mea
sure of this kind, at this time, would refle<Buprn
the inflability of our councils, and be (fifgracoful
to them. What was to be inferred, he alked,
from a deG-e to go into the buGncfs of arming at
present ? He hoped, and trusted, and believed,
that there was no difpofitioo in that house to throw
obftades in the way of the negotiation, so as to
defeat it ; if he could conceive any such intention
to exist, he ihould think such a measure as was
now proposed, calculated to produce the effeS.
To discuss this fubjedt, and authoriGng the arming
of our velfels, would b« to set adrift the passions
of focicty, and the confcquence could not fail to
be mifchiev us. The details of the bill confirmed
him in this opinion ; the regulations were mere
cobwebs, and would, by no means,, be equal to
the preventing of abuses It would be placing
the pe?ce of the courti y in the hands of every man
who owned a Ihip. If, thea lher« were neihing
new in ourGtuation ; nothing which made a charge
of policy nee.'lTnry, why go into this fubjeS ? Did
not gcntl'mcn recoiled! the heat which had been
produced bv t! e difcuflion on a former occaGon ?
I) they did, why did th.y wish to anticipate the
question ? It could only tend to dtftroy that har
mony which would be so dcGrable in e so of this
country being obliged to have recuurfc to the dtr
tier rrfort. But they had been told, that il some
regulations were not entered into, great mifchi«f*
be ex from merchants arming without
rellrielion, and a tingle inflance of abuse had been
mentioned. This was all, he beiisved, which
could be produced, and he did not thiDk, therefore,
the peace of the country would be much hazarded
[mm this fou-ce. He could fee no evil that could
arifefrom letting the bufincfs remain upon itsprn
frnt footing for a month or two lo»ger. He.uc
lieved the aieceffity fpokeu of for going into this
measure as merely it/ml, aud that it would have
no effed, but that of inflaming the minds of the
people for war. As to what had fallen from the
gentleman fr«m Massachusetts (Mr. Otis) in his
appeal to the Geuiut of the Country, &c. he con-
Gdered merely as a touch of the Mcil Heruic. He
thought the milder Genii should only be refortcd
to. Tho only Senilis which he wifhtd to appeal to
was the Genius of Pease. We were not, He said,
ripe for War. Our plans had hitherto been paci
fic, and he did not wish at present to change them.
H« hoped, therefore, the vote taken would not be
revoked. ' |
(Remainder of this Male in tur next.)
WEDNtSDAY —DEC. 17.
Mr. S. J. Cabel, from Virginia,, appeared for
the firft time this feflion.
Mr. A- Foster prtfented a petition from Da
niel Cutter, priying a remifTion of duties paid
011 goo»la ( which, owing to a variety of misfor
tunes, wene re imported into the United States.
Referred to the committee of commerce and
manufactures.
Mr. Dawfon presented the petition of Robert
Leonard, a soldier, who was wounded at the
battles of Brandywino and Monmouth,and who,
in the year 1791, re-entered into the service of
the United States, and served in the expedition
against the Western Insurgents, and who was
afterwards wounded in an engagement with the
Indians, praying for further compenfatian. Re
ferred to the committee of claims.
Mr. Coit, from the committee appointed to
prepare and report a bill for the relief of such
jfficers and soldiers as served during the war,
.ind died between March and November, 1793,
nade a report, which was twice read, and com
mitted for Monday.
Mr. Dwight Foster, from the committee of
laims.made a report on the petitions of Simeon
O unbar, Jicob Hoibrook and Robert Hyflop,
who prayed to have certain certificates funded,
which were barred by the statute of limitation ;
they stated, that as the fubjeft was generally un
tier the consideration of the committee of the
whole, on a reference of the fubjedt for deter
mining the expodiency or inexpediency of ex
cepting certain claims from the operation of the
afls of limitation, they wished to be difchsrged
from a further confidaration of those cases, that
they might be referred to that committee.
Agreed.
Mr. Gordon obtained leave of absence for
Mr. Cliamplin for three weeks.
On motion, the house again resolved itfslf Un
to a committee of the whole, Mr. Kitlera in the 1
chair, on the blit prgfcftbing the mode of takin"-:)
evidence in cases of eontefled eltdtidfii.jn:! after I
a defuitory debate, and agreeing to feverii a- |
mendmcnis, the committee role, ar,J reported
the bill with amendments. The house toak
them up, and jfter agreeing to rktrmaut) leak
ing some others, the bill was re commirtfd tQ
the feleil committee wiin reported it.
The Speaker informed tlie house that he had
received the following letter:
" SIR,
" Though I am not certain of obtaining
the object of the rejpedtfnJ'f'equeft,which I have
the .honor to submit tft the House of Ueprefen
talive*, yet I am unable to rcSlt the weighty
confederations which impel mc to the menfui e.
" The Prefidsnt h,as thought proper to inform
me, that my lervices as Comrsiffioner of the
Revenue are no longer required. He hasexe/-
eifed f power committed to him by Uft auft 1
am therefore no longer in the fcrvice- <tf tfce Um
teil Stages.
" Whatever maybe my ferftbilijiet and i«-
predions in regard to the proceeding*, of the
nature of an invefligation and heating, which
the cafe demanded, I have no desire to present
myfelf to <he house on the ground of complaint.
" It is however my earncft desire, that foine
arrangement nfay be four.d practicable,by which
my official conduA may undergo a thorough
scrutiny.
" Should it be found en confideratian, that a
form of procedure is proper and praftiifable,
which will bring inte view all th« trarifafiions
of the several yean, during which I administered
my late office of Commissioner of the Revenue,
in the department of the Treasury of the United
States, I Tjeg leave to aiTure the heufe, that I
(hall be prepared to enter immediately upon fueh
Hieafnre* at the form and nature of the business
shall be thought by them to require.
VVith gre«i refpe<ft,
I have the honor to be
Sir,
Your molt obedient servant,
TENCH COXE.
P/ahiut-Jlreti, December 26.
To the Speaker of the House }
of Keprefentativeg of the >
United Statev" j
Ordered to lie on the table.
Mr. Livingftoa, from the comtnitte to whom
was referred the petitiori»f the daughters of
the late Count de GrafTe, made a report, which,
flared, that the sum heretofore by Con
gress was intended only as a tempprary provision
until the events of the warftiould permit them
to take polTcffion of an estate in St. Domingo ;
that the fails formerly stated (hewed, that the
most important fervit,es were rendered to the
United States by their father, from motives the
in.ift honourable, under the greatest responsibil
ity, and at arilk the ipoft hazardous that could
be encountered by an oflic«r of rank and repu
tation ; that with the recollcAion of these servi
ces, it would consist neither with the honor or
juftieeof the United States, to refufean adequate
provilioa for the orphan children of the man
who rendered the® ; the committee there
fere, recommended that a certain sum (hould
be granted to each of them annually, for
their lives. The report wa» tvvice read, and
committed for Monday.
Mr. Livingfton also reported a bill for the re
lief of refugees from the British provinces of
Canada and Nova-Scotia, which was twice read
and committed for Tuesday —Adjourned.
* The new road proposed the other day
by Mr. Harper, was to go through Cambpelton
and nr»t Charleston.
By this day's Mail.
nava£Taction,
BETITEEN THE EIfCLISH AUD DUTCH.
HAGUE, Oflober 13.
At the fittingof this day, the committee
of marine communicated a letter addressed to
them by Vice-Admiral De Winter, written
yesterday, on board the BWtifh Admiral
Duncan, and received at 10 o'clock this
morning by exprefj. Oftliis affedling let
ter, the following is a summary—it caused
the liveliest sensations of grief among the
members of the afiembly.
" ft is with the deepefl regret that I address
to you the present dispiitch. Ttjlcrday mor
ning at II o'cloii we discovered the Englith.
We ranged in order of battle. I made the
signal for forming the line as compact as pojjible,
which however was very imperfectly obeyed.
" .712 o'clock the enemy attacked the extre
mity of our line. They soon afterwards un
dertook to force it. The aSion became
general, and I found myfelf engaged with three
of their Jhips. The Hercules tookjire. and
driving towards mine I was under the mceJJity
of changing my pojition, to avoid her, which ob
liged me to approach 'a fourth of the enemy's
vefels, that of the Admiral. I very soon lojl ah
my rigging, and it became impracticable to conti
nue myJxgnals. Meanwhile the enemy took
poffbffion of the Wajfenaar, Harlm, Frt£ar,
Delft and Jupiter,
" The smoakprevented me from diJlinSly
observing the Jlate »J our affairs. The aSion
<was one of the brijkejl / have witnejfed. Sf.
ter losing a conftderable part of my crew, I
endeavoured by a vigorous pujh, to force the
Jive Englijh J, lips -which surrounded me, &to
gain the coajl, or join the remains oj my Jleet.
At two o'clock all three oj my majls went by
the board—After this / continued fighting
half an hour, when my Jlag was carried
away and the crew, reduced to lalj its number
teaicd to Jire. At I I was bearded by an
Engliih frigate, and conduced on board Admi
ral Duncan. The Egality was not far from
me—l observed her to cease firing, having 101 l
all 'her rigging. IVhy the, as well as the
Friffar, Diljt and Harlem Jlruck, I cannot
determine. The Hercules were obliged to cut
away her majls—-Jhe was on Jire, but it was
soon put out—Jhe, however, drove into the
British Jleet, and -was taken.
" I am perfectly fatisfied with my officers
and erew, 1 they fought with infinite bravery,
as did also the enemy. The loss of men on
both fides has been very groat.
" The British fleet whjcb had put into
Yarmouth, set fail again irrfjjiediately on re
ceiving news that we were a! fca. It was
joined by several veflels from Portfmauth
and the Downs. Their force confided of
sixteen ships of the line, principally 74's.
«« This is the most unhappy day of my
life all our best manoeuvres, and all our
courage were fruitlefs. The enemy esteems
us on account ef our vigprotis rtfiftanct.—
No aftion could have been more desperate
and bloody.
" I (hall do myfelf the honor of transmit
. • i' ■' ■ i;•
ting you a more accurate detail by the next 1
opportunity. I now cfn'y avail myfelf of i
tlic permission granted by admiral Duncan,
to forward this Jltettfh. j
" I cannot give you any precise informs- '
tion, refpefling' the other (hips—l am told
Vice Admiral Reintcr is (lightly wounded,
and a piifoiier on board Vice Admiral Onf
low.
" I cannot fay how many Engliih (hip 9 i
are damaged, but count only ten in view. I ]
hope to be permitted to repair to Holland ]
for my juftification. 1
I am, t
Your unfortunate Admiral |
» DE WINTER." I
The marine committee has this afternon
received official information that seventeen
of our (hips have entered the Tesel* and
Helvoetfluys.
1
BOSTON, Dec. 21. 1
Extraft of a letter from capt. Wilds, on
board the fch. Mermaid, dated Nov. t, 1
off Arquin-Bay. '
" A veflTel was taken and brought into *
St. Domingo, from America, botind to Ja- 1
maica, was tried, cleared, and proceeded '
on her voyage. She departed but a few days 1
before my arrival; this may' be depended 1
upon. x j
Capt. Tremels, arrived at New-York
from St. Thomas, informs, that 17 fail of
American veflels have recently been liberat
ed at Porto-Rico, in eonfequence of orders
from France.
—•'■■- lll . . 1 1 ' i
©ajette.
P HILJ.D ELPHIA,
THURSDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 28.
A letter from a gentleman in New-York
to a Member of Congress, informs of the
arrival of Mr. David Meredith of this city,
from Bourdeaux.
The letter further states that our envoys
011 their arrival at Paris, presented their cre
dentials to the ruling power. At the time
of Mr. Meredith's departure, three weeks
had elapsed, without any recognition or
other notice of them.
For the Gazette oj the United States.
LETTER 11.
DEAR SIR,
IT is not necessary to call in the aid of
written authorities to assist or confirm the
principles on which it is now found so evi
dently to be the interejl of every nation to en
deavour as much at pojjible to cultivate the in
valuable blejfings of peace, if it was there is
not one on the fubjeft of the laws or interest
of nations, or ev«?n a modern Engliih writer
of political eminence to whom I could not
recur for proof of what has been observed in
my last. If then it is a general interest, it
is meftparticular to the United States.
In my letters of 1794 (of which I have
not any notes by me) I think it was observ
ed on this fubjeft " that possessing a fuffici
ency of territory at home it is not her in
terest, nor can it therefore be the calm in
clination of the United States for time bey
ond ours to attempt conquest, the only re
ward that could attend even a fuccefsful
warfare" this it is her interest to Jhun, con
sequently to avoid every cause that can pos
sibly tend to involve her in a contest with a
ny of the nations of Europe, from whom
thank Heaven (he is so widely separated.
The wisdom and firmnefs which canvafs'd
and calmed the ftormjuft over, which (leer- |
ed the (hip of state over all the quick sands
of clamour, the rocks of rashness, the (hal
lows and (hoals of felf-created societies and
" defeated the arts of falfe and felfifh po
pularity addressed to the feelings of avarice"
(6) will remain recorded in the admiring me
nwry of mankind -while gratitude retains a name
amongfi the virtues of a patriotic people ! The
important precedent is a legacy to the whole
human race, all the nations of the earth may
derive advantage from it ! the unshaken
loftinefs (forgive (&e expreflion ye societies
of reformers by one man Was ena
bled to listen, to examine, to enquire and
search, to deliberate and coolly determine
the best path to pursue in a point of so ranch
importance, amidst the anger of a justly in
censed and dearly beloved society of friends
and fellow-citizens, and fellow fuffererstoo)
when all the paflions, a warring world, a
popular and favorite fubjeft invited or seem
ed to offer redress or at least revenge !
(which the inconliderate too generally be'
cause hastily eonfider the fame) is a theme
for future ages to celebrate and annually ob
serve as a day of thank/giving, and for every
patriot Jlatefmati and legislator to imitate.
Accustomed tothe care and caution which
conveyed us clear of this|important difficulty,
we are apt to think and speak of it, with
all the indifference of the (lighted danger !
but throughout the reft of the world, how
is it extolled ? the character of a man, al
ready raised beyond the steady height which
fame had ever reached and kept, (7 ) is ex
alted to the highest pitch of-magnanimity.
His country's character is benefited by the repu
tation of policy and firmnefs -which his conduS
bn this occajion has obtained it; the republican
form of government is recommended by the de
monstrated proof of his admioiftration on so
trying an occasion, that it is equally capable
of energy with monarchy r and superior to it in
moderation.
Such are the comments heard throughout
Europe, everywhere I palled from Denmark
through the free cities, Germany, Holland
■ and the whole republic of France 5 even
where the ruling powers praftice and wi(h
to have seen us display a different system, as
individuals they admire that moderation and
temper which an attentive world must wish
(6) Annie's auarels to Ucn.ral Washington,
Nov. 1783.
(7) l or 11 years fuceeffively the chosen charm i
on and ruler of five millions of men, unrewarded
but by their [love and praise !
had been companioned with the bravery acd
spirit of a people contending in the. glorious
cause of liberty, ellewhere; we may indeed
with propriety apply Mr. Addifon's eulogy
on Marlborough's feats, to our Fabius's nc.-
tions.
" Rah dos them],'elves« their genuine charms they L oaJi )
" And thofttbatpaint them trucji praise them most. u
The poli icians of thofeeountries juftmer
tioned whose observations I remark as ap
plicable to our own, not only admit and
praise the propriety, of that conduit which
haa preserved our peace but have frequently
expressed opinions "that nothing could have
pleased the government which raised our re
sentment better, than to have forced us to
afts of hostility, and that she was disappoint
ed to Gnd her youthful children so deliberate
ly -wife, being able, prepared as she was at
a very little expence to have retarded the pros
perity or put tlie United States lack near
half a century.",
A few evenings ago this fubjedt being
warmly canvafled in a society of sen
sible men of different countries, and
(then) of different ways of thinking, I was
much entertained and not a little improved
by the difcaffion ; some American gentle
men being present, one of them proposed in
the true mercantile stile of exchange, orprojit
and loss reasoning, to explain his sentiments
by arithmetical rules of demonstration, that
is, by account current, the formation' of
which gave rife to some very amusing
and friendly fort of difbutes, for fitting down
with pen, ink and paper, he began a very
formal statement by debt and credit, to give
you a just idea of which I have procured a
copy, to which explanatory notes are affix
ed, by which the prevailing opinions &c.
can be seen, whicfy I hope will divert you
as much as it has
Yours, See.
A FRIEND TO LAWS & FREEDOM.
New-Turk, December 27.
ARRIVED. ✓ DAYS
Ship Cclurbu, Harvey, Jamaica 30
Henrietta, Weeks, Laguara, 36
Schooner Regulator, Robins, C- N. Mol« it
Fricndlhip, Odin, Hifpmiola 37
James, Obrian, Surrm-r.i 41
NEW THfcATRii. !
TO-MORROW EVENING,
DECEMBER 29,
Will be Pteftnted, the Hi/lorical Play of
COLUMBUS:
or, A World Discovered.
To which will be added, the Farce of
THE LYING VALET.
Box, one Dollar ; Pit, three quarters of a Dol
lar ; and gallery, half a Dollar.
| jfS* The door 6of the Theatre will cpen at five,
and the curtain rife precisely at fix o'clock.
Placea lor the Boxes to be taken at the Office in
the front of the Theatre, from 10 till 1 o'clock,
and from 10 till 4 on the days of performance.
Tickets to behad at H. and Rick's book-store,
No. 50 Market-street, and at the O ice adjoining
the Theare. Fir AT RESVUBLICA !
I4RsTGTrTTTN,
RESPECTFULLY informsher friendsand the
public in general, that necessity obliges her
to make this effort for the lu&intcitance of her fa
mily ; for them Mrs. G. solicits the support and
patronage of a generous public, at her
SECOND CONCERT,
which will be on Toefday nc*t, at Mr. Itichardeti'.
Suhftribcrs Tickets Six dollars, which admit all
the unmarritd ladies of his family.
No tickets transferable.
Non fuHfcribers Tickets T« 0 Dollars.
The Concert to begin at half pad feiren, ar.dthj
Band to attend for the Eall at eight ■
The Subfcrit ers will please to fend for their tick
ets, at No. 192 High Stieet.
Dec iJ. d4t
Tin Plates,
FOR SALE BY 1
SIMON WALKER,
Pine, near Fifth ftreeC.
Pecemher 18. , iw
Salisbury Eltate.
Subfcribftr, propafing to his bufi
-1 ness, uffors this Zl.Ute ior Me, on moderate
terms. On it arc one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Borfeing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair ol ftonrt ; alio a good Forge, 211
in perfeft repair, as aic all the Water Works conncdU
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnaces
were lately built (or the purpose of cafhrg Cannoa
for this State.—There are abon-j 'wo thouland acre*
of Land, one half of whtato is under wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the belt Hay and
Pasture. The Cannon lately mannfatiured there,
Fully proves the excellency of the metal, which it
luperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for not one of fixty-oine guns
lately made, although some of the 24 were bored
into 31 pounders, have failed on proving. The situ
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufacture, and a place of aims lying in the ftatc
"of Conneftieut, and only 30 miles from several land *
ings on the Hud Ton's river, and having every advan
tage that can ycfofe frem a plenty of water issuing
from a large natural pood, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted i\uo a variety of other
ufeful purposes. The purchaser can be accommodat
ed with all the flock and utcnfils, and have poffeflioit
on or before the firft of June next, and preparation
may oe made in the mean time for going into Blast im
mediately thereafter, for every pait will be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, &c. See. For
terms, apply to Mr. Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
phia ; David Brooks, Esq. one of the Representative*
in Congress for this State ; Mr, David Waterman, on
theprcraifes, or to the proprietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON.
Dee. 1. 3*wtf
Imported inthefhipMAKCHESTER,
Benjamin Shewill, Master,
From Bourdeaux, and for lale by the lubfcriber,
No. n, Walnut Street.
Bonrdeaux Brandy "j
Iriffo market claret in cases ( Entitled to
Medoc wine, in do. f Drawback,
Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgcitreyd.
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter caflci
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
4000 bulhels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stf-
Uriah Smith,
No. 20, north Third street —has for sale,
A neat and general aflortment of
Broad Cloths,Kerfeymeres,Napt
and Coatings. also,
A variety of Gcntlcmens' falhionable fancy Waift
i coating, fifk Hofiiry, &c.
December yPROPOSALS
FOR
CJRRTING THE PUBLIC MAILS
on the fallowing Post Roads Will be re
ceived at the General Port Office -until
the 14th day of February next inchifive. ,
PENNSYLVANIA; is'c.
T. From Philadelphia by Wilmington, Newcaf
tlc, Cam well's bridge, Duck creek, Dover, Fred
erica, Miiford, £lon<rhs, Dagfljorough, Trap,
Snowhill, Horntown and iAceomac court house to
Northampton court house three times a week.
April Ito November 15. Leave Philadelphia ev
ery Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday at 2 a M,and
arrrive at Northampton c.nirt house on Thufday,
Saturday and Monday at 7Jr m. Returning. Leave
Northampton court hcufe eve'ry Friday, Monday
and Wedtufday at 2 a m, and arrive at Philadel
phia 011 Monday, Wednesday aod Friday by 7 i-a
P M.
Nov ember 15 to April I. Leave Philadelphia ev
ery i'ucfd y, Thursday and Saturday at 6 a m,
atul arrive at Northampton court house on Friday,
Monday and Wednesday by 7 in, Returning—]
Leave Northampton court lionfe every Saturday,
Tuesday and Thuvfday at 6 A M, and arrive at
Philadelphia on Wednesday, Friday and Monday
by 7 p M, ,
VIRGINIA.
2. from Northampton court house to Norfolk 1
thr« - e times a week.
April 1 to November 15. Leave Northampton
court house every Monday, Wednesday and Fri- !
day at 3 pm, and arr ve at Norfolk in 24 hours. !
Returning—Leave Norfolk every Wednesday, Fri
day and Monday a 4 a m , and arrive at Northamp
to'i court house in twenty four hours.
NovPhier I f to April I, Leave Northampton
court hcijfe everyTuefday, Thvn-fJay and Saturday
a' 3A M, and arrive at Norfolk in »4 hoars. Re
turning—l.cive Norfolk every Monday, Wednes
day and Friday by 4 a », and arrive at Northamp- ;
ton court house in 34 hours.
PKNNSYLVAN IA isf MARYLAND.
3. From Philadelphia by Wilmington, New- I
] ort,Chriftiaua,Middletown,Warwick andOoerge- 1
to-.vn cross reals toChffterftownthreetimesa week. j
S.hiy Ito November I. Leave Philadelphia every 1
Sunday, Tuefd y nnd Thursday by 9r m, andar- I
rive at Chefle town the next days by 8 pm. Re- !
'turning—Leave Chetlertown every Monday, Wed- i
nefday and by 9 p m, and arrive at Phila- i
deiphia the next oays by 8 p m.
Nove \b;r I to May I. Leave Philadelphia eve- f
ryMor.jay and Friday by 9 a m, and arrive at
Qfceflertown on TuifJay aud Saturday hy 4 p m.
nck-mix t;—Ltwe Cheftertown every Monday and
F-iday by 8 a m, and arrive at Philadelphia on
Tuesday and Saturday by 4 p m.
AIARYL AND.
4. From Cheile.town by C'cntcrville, Eafton,
Newmarket, Vitfena, Sahfbury, Snowhill and Prin
tefs Ann to Salisbury once a week.
Receive the nrail at Cheftertown every Wednes
day at 7 a M, arrive it F.arton by 4 p m. Leave
Eatlon orijf.nnfjay by 6 a m, arfivc at 4uewhill
on Friday b/ I p. m, and at I'rincels Ann by (1 r.
m. Returning LeaveVrineefs Ann nnSStur.lay by
to a m, arrive at Gallon the rttxc «fay or Monday
hy 6 Pm. Leave Falion on Vuciciay by 8a m and <
arrive at Cheftertown fame day by 4 * m.
5. From Harford by B I-Air to the Black horse i
once a week.
Leave Harford «very Tuesday by 10 A u, and
arrive at Black boric by 6p M. Returning—Leave
■Black hoi fe on Wednesday by 6 am, and arrive at
• Harford 'he next Tucfday lrjr'9 a m.
PENNSYLVANIA, MARYLAND and VIR
GINIA-
6. From Baltimore by Blackhorfe to Yorktown
Pa. once a week.
Leave Baltimore every Friday by 4 p My arrive
at Blackhorfe on Saturday by 10 a u, and arrive
at Yorktown by 8 pm. Returning—L*»vl York
town every Thursday by 7 A m, and arrive at Bal
timore on Friday noon.
7. Frotn Yorktrtwn by Hanover, Petersburg,
Taneytfcn and Fredericktown to Leefburg once a
week.
Leave Torlttown every Monday at 8 a m,arrive
at Fredericktown on Tu< [day by 5 p wt, sjidarrive
at Leefburg on Wedncftlay by ap m. Returning—
Leave Leefburg every Friday at noon, ana arrive
at Yorktown by 6 r m on Sunday.
8. From Yorktown by Abbotll»wn,Gettifburg,
FairfiJld, Elizabethtown, Willianjfport, Martinf
buqr, Winchester, Stevenfburg and Strafourg to
Woodltockonce a week.
Leave Yorktown every Sunday by noon, *frive
at Martinfburg on Tuesday by 11 am. Leave
Martinfburg on Tuesday noon and arrive at Wood
ftock on Wednesday by 6r M. Returning—Leave
Wood (lock on Thursday by 6 A m, arrive at ."vfcr
tinfburg on Fiiday by II a m, and arrive at York
10wn 011 Sunday by 11 am .
9. From Pi/fburg hy Canuonfburg, Wafliing
ton, Weft Liberty and Wheeling to the month of
Filhing creek one.; a week (contrail for one year
only.)
Leave Pittrtwrg tvery Friday at 9 a m, and ar
rive a£ Fishing Creek on 8:« <lay at 9a m Return
ing—Leavel'ilhbg creek on Wednesday at 8 a m,
and arrive'at Pittiburgon Friday at 8a m.
10. From Waifcington by lirewnfvijle arfd Union ,
to Morgantown once a v eck.
Leave Union every Friday at 6 am, and arrivs
at Wafjiisgton by 6 pm. Leave Wafhiugton 011
Saturday at. 6 A m, arrive at Morgnntown on San
day at 6p M. l.oavc Morgan town on Monday at
8 a M.'andarrive at Union by 3 1' m.
11. From Balciraorc by Fredericl-.rown, Eliza
bethwwn, GrcnncaO-le aud Chamberfburg to Ship#
peniburg once a week.
Leave Baltimore every Friday by II a m,arrive
at Fredericktown on Saturday by lo a m, atEli
zabethtown in the evening, and at Shippenfburg
bu Monday by 7p m. Reluming—Leave Shippenf
burg every Tutfday at jam, arrive at Elizabeth
town at 8 P m, at Fredericktown oa Wednesday
noon, and at Bakimotc on Thursday by 5 fm.
MARYLAND.
il. From Eiizabethtown by Hancock and Old
town to Cumberland once a week .
LeaVuCurr.'oerland every Saturday by 6 a M,and
arrive at EUzabethtown on Monday by 8 a m.
Returning —Leave Elizabethtown every Monday by ,
10 a m, and arrive at Cumberland on Tuesday by'
6 r m.
13. From Baltimore to Annapolis once a week.
Leave Baltimore evefy Monday at 8 a m, and
arrive at Annapolis by 5p m. Returning—Leave
Annapolis every Tuesday at 8 a m, and arrive at
Baltimore by 5 p m.
14. From Baltimore by Annapolis, Queen Anns,
Upper Marlborough,Pifcataway,P«rttobacco, \1- '
lensfrefh, Newport and Chaptico to Leonardtown , 1
once a week.
Leave Baltimore every Friday at 10 a m, arrive
at Annapolis at 5r m. Leave Annapolis on Sa
turday at 6 am, arrive at Upper Marlborough
by noon,arrive at Pifcatavyay by 6 pm. & arrive at
Leonardtown every Monday forenoon by jo'c'.ock. '
Returning—LeaVe Leonardtown every Monday at 3 1
r m, arrive at Pifcataway on Tuesday by 6 p m
arrive at Upper Marlborough 011 Wednesday by
ir am, and arrive at Annapofis by 6p m. Leave :
Annapolis on I'hurfday by 7 a m, and arrive at
Baltimore by 3 p m.
15. From Annapolis by Lower Marlborough,
Huntington and Calvert court house to 3t. Leon- s
ards once a week.
Leave Annapolis every Saturday at 9a m, and ,
arrive at St. Leonards on Monday by 3v m. Re- 1
turning — Leave St. Leonards every Monday at 4 j
v m, and arrive at Annapolis the next Saturday by
6 am.
16. From Bladenfburg by Uppfr Marlborough t
.' I? >t('a t' m, Low.:.- '.fail'ior.iugn, ilV>, B-.i
an i Jii.irlottuuli tp Cfiu;)tico once a week.
r gl'veA a m,.ar
rive at Upper Marl and at 1.0 *er
Marlboroughon Monday by 5 p m, & at Chaptico
e> by 6r m. Tieturning—LeaveChapticoeveryThuif
day at 6A m, and arrive at B'.adenfburgon Satur
day at C a m.
'' 17. From Georgetown by Montgomery court
house to Fredericktown once a w rck.
Leave Georgetown ?very Friday hy 6 a m, and
arrive at Fredericktown "by 6 Pm. Re',urniirg—
Leave Fredericktown every ThurlUay 1*")* 5 a m,
" and arrive at Georgetown by 6 pm.
ri'J.GINTA.
'' 18. From Woodftock by Newmarket, Rocking
-0 ha-ii court houTe, Staantoit, Lexington and Fincaf
tle to Big Lick once a week.
" Leave Woodftock every Thursday hy 6 am, ar
rive at Staunton on Friday at i p m. Leave Staun
'• ton every Friday at 2 pm, arrive at Big Lick on
c Sunday by 11 am. Returnisg—Leave Big Lick
' on Sunday by 1p m, arrive at Staunton every Tues
day by II am. Leave Stauntjm by 12 o'clock
2 )noon) and arrive at Woodflock on Wedsefday by
5 p m.
19, From Big Lick by Montgomery court house
> aud Wythe eourt house to Abingdon once a week.
• j Leave Big Lick every Sunday at Ip m, arrive
- I at co'irt house on Tuesday by 2 p M,and at
> Abingdon on Wednesday by 6r m. Returning—
-1 Lcnva Abingdon every Thursday by 6 am, arrive
f at Wythe court house 011 Friday hy 2 pm, and ar
j rlve at Big Lick on Sunday by 11 a m .
TENNESSEE..
: 20. From Abingdon, Vir. by Jonefborough
Greenville,Moffat's (lore and JefFerfon court haute
1 I to Knoxvilie once a week.
■ | Leave Abingdon every Thursday by 6a m, ar
• rive at Moffats (lore on Saturday by 8 a m. Leave
■ Moffits by 9 am, and arrive at Knoxvilie oa Sun
day by 10 a m. Returning—Leave Knoxvilie eve
ry Sunday by » p m, arrive at Moffats on Monday
' by 3 p ki. Leavn Moffats on Monday at 4.P m,
' and arrive at Abingdon on Wednesday by 7r m.
VIRGINIA.
' I »i. From Winchellcr by Romney to Moorfields
■ j once a week.
Leave Winchester every Thursday at 6 a m* and
; arrive at Moorfieldxn Friday by 6P M. Return
ing—Leave Moorlield every Saturday at 8 a >n,ind
j arrive at Winchester on Sunday by 6 P M.
22. From Alexandria by Centerville, Leefburg
and Shepherdftown to Martinfbnrg once a week.
I Leave Alexandria every Wednesday at 9a m,
| and arrive at Martinfburg on Friday by 10 a m.
I Returning—Leave Martinfburg every Friday by
j noon & arrive at Alexandria on Monday by 7 a m.
I 23. From Frederickfbburg by Port Royal, Lay.
tons, Tappahaunock, Urbauna and GloUcetler court
house to Yorktown once a week-
Leave Frcderickfburg every Wednesday at 6 a
m, arrive at Tappahannock on Thursday by it
a m. Leave Tappahannock at noon and arrive at
Yorktown on Saturday by ham. Returning—
Leave Yorktown eVery Saturday at 1 P M, arrive
1 lit Tappahannock the nexi Monday noon and arrive
at Frederickflcurg on Tuesday by 5 P M.
24. From Tappahannock hy Richmond eourt
house, Wcftir.Wt.land court house, Kinfale, Farn
ham church and Northumberland court house to
Lanca.ler court house once a week-
Leave Tappahannock ivery Thursday noon and
arrive at Laucatler court house on Saturday by 11
'a m. Returning—LeaveLaucafter court house uV
ery Saturday by 1 P M. afld arrive at Tappalun
: noek un Monday by 11 a m.
25. It. n> Fredei?ck(burg by Culpeper court
; honfe &Orangec. h. to Charlottelvilleoticc a week.
Leave Frederickfburg every Tuesday at 10 a m,
and arrive at Charlottrfville ou Thursday by 11 a
m. Returning—Leave Gharlattefvilleon Saturday
at 8 PM, and arrive at Frederiekfburg on T*ef
day by o a m.
I 2s. From Richmoad by Goochland court
houle Columbia and Charlottefville to Staunton
once a week.
Leave Richmond every Tuesday at 1 * m, ar
rive at Clui'lottdville on Thursday by ham.
Leave Charlottefville by noon and arrive at
Staunton en Friday by 11 AM. Returning—
Leave Staunton on Saturday by 6 A M, arrive at
Charlottefville by 7 r M, ai}d arrive at Rich
mond the next Tuesday by 9 A m.
27. Fr tm Staunton by Bath conrt-houfe and
Sweet Springs to Greenbrier court-house once a
week.
Leave Suunton ever) Saturday at 6 a m, and
arrive at Greenbrier court-house on Tuesday by
6p M. Returning—Leave Greenbrier court
houfe'every Monday by 9 a m, and arrive at
Staunton on Thurulay by 8 p M.
28. From Charlettefvile by Warren, War
mmfler, New-Market, Amherit court house,
Cabellfburg, and Maddifon to Lynchburg once
a week.
Leave Charlottefville every Thursday at 1 r
M. and arrive at Lyschburg on Saturday at 6
v M. Returning—Leave Lynchburg every
Tuesday by 6 A M, and arrive at Charlottefville
on Thursday by 10 A m.
29. From Richmond by Hanovertown, Ay
letts and Todds to Tappahanuock once a week"
or if carried in stages as often a» they (hall run.
Leave Richmond every Wednesday at 5 A M,
arrive at Todds at 3 p M, and at Tappahannock
on Thursday at 11 A m. Returning—Leave
Tappahannock on Monday at 1 v m, and ar
rive at Richmond on Tuesday by 5 PM.
30. From Richmond by Hopkina'i, Powha
tan court house, Cumberland court ho,ufe, Prince
Edward court bouje and Lynchburg to New-
London, once a week.
Leave Richmond every Tuesday at 8 A m,
arrive at I'rince Edward on Wednesday at 6 P
m, and arrive at Lynchburg on Friday at 8 A M,
Snd at New-London by 10 A M.
Leave New-Londoft every Friday at 2 P M, ar
rive *t Lynchburg by 5 p to, arrive at Prince
Edward on Saturday by 7 p m, and arrive at
Richmond on Monday by 4. P M.
31. From New-London by Liberty to Fincaf
tle once a wefk-.
Leave New London every Friday at 1 p m,
and arrive at Fincafile on Saturday by 6. p m.
Returning—Leave Fincafile on Monday at 5 A
M, and arrive at New London on Tuesday noon.
32. From Liberty by Rocky Mount to Mar
tinvilleonce in two weekii.
- Leave Liberty every other Saturday at 6 A
M, and arrive at Martinville on Sunday by 6 p
M. Leave Martinville on Monday by 6 A M,
and arrive at Liberty on Tuesday by 6 pm.
33. From Prince Edward court house by
Charlotte court house to Halifax court house
once a week.
Leave Prince Ed ward court house every Thurs
day at 6 A M, and arrive at Halifax court house
on Friday at 10 AM. Returning—Leave Hal
ifax court house on Friday by a P M, and ar
rive at Prince Edward court house oa Saturday
by 6 PM.
VIRGINIA and NO RTH-CAROL IN A.
34* From Halifax court-house by Halifax old town,
Carters, Martinville,' Patrick eourt-houfe, Upper Sau
ra, Germantown and Bclhania to Salem once in two
weeks.
Leave Halifax court-house every other Friday at
2, P M, and arrive at Salem the next Monday by 6,
P M. Returning—Leave Salem every other Tuesday
at 6, A M, and aarive at Halifax court-house on Fri
day by to, A M.
35. From Hairis's by Hickes'sford to Halifaxtwice
a week.
Leave Harris's every Wednesday and Saturday by
5, A M. and arrive at Halifax by 6, P M. Returij
ing—leaye Halifax every Thursday and Sunday by 6,
A M, and arrive at Harris's by 7, P. M.
VIRGINIA.
36. From Smithfield by Southampton eourt-houfe
to Hitkes's ford once a y cejt.
I.tijtfc Flick*', ford every other Friday hy 2, P M,
at Srnithlield on Saturday by 5, P M.—
£e:uroing—LtAVe every oihtir
5» A M, apd arrive at tlic*s's on Monday by
2, PM. 3
37. From Gold funs hy G"efbndge, St. Tammany's,
Mecklfntaerg 4n( \ Lunenburg couri-Soufcs and Ed
munds store to Goldfon's n.*ic,e a wtck,.
Leave Golds, V/edTiefday at 10, A M, and
return 'he next Saturday by 2, 'P* M, waning at each
Poll-OHice 2 hours after delivery of the mail.
vrnaixtA cis NO ft rH-C A R.OL IN A.
38. From SutfylK by £dentcn, Plymouth and Wa
ftiingttWi to JVewbern, one* a week Leave Suffolk
every Monday at noon, arrive at Edenton on Tuef
dav at 1, P M, at Plymouth, on Wednesday by 6,
A M, at by6» P M, and at Newbcmon
Thursday by p iv^. Returning—Leave Newbern
every Friday by 6, A M, arrive at Waihingtoft "by
5» P M. Arrive at Plymouth on Saturday by 4
P Mj at Edrnton 011 Sunday by g, A aud at Suf
folk 00 Moodav by g, A M.
NORTH CAROLINA.
FfOfli Edenton by Hertford, Nixoikon, £li2a
beth fitVj ar.d Jor.efburg to Indian-town, ouce a
week.
Leave Edenton every Wednesday by 1, P M, and
arrive at Indian-town on Thurfdayby 6, P M. Re
turning- LeJlve Indiantownevery Tuefdayby 5, A M,
and arrive at Edcoton on Wednesday at 11, A M.
40. Frofo Halifax by Northampton court-house,
Princeton, MurJreefboro<jgh, Wintou and Windsor
to Edenton. oiv'a week.
Leave Halifax every Monday at 9, AM, and arrive
at Edenton on Wednesday by 3, P M, leave Eden
ton on Wednesday by PM, and arrive at Halifax
on Satur »y by 11, A M
41. Prom Halifax by Scotland, Plogton, Williamf
ton and Daily's to Plymouth, once a week.
Halifax ev<;ry Monday at I®, A M, and arrive at Ply
mouth, on VV'ednefday by 10, A M. Returning—
Leave Plymouth on Wednesday at 2, P M, and ar
rive at Halifax on Friday at 10, A M.
42. From Halifax by Taiboro' and Greenville to
Wafhingtononee a week.
Leave Halifax every Monday at 10, A M, and ar
rive at Waftiiugton on Wednesday by to A M. Re
turning—Leave Washington every Wednesday at a,
P M, and arrive at Halifax on Friday at 10, A M,
43. trom Halifax by Warrenton,Wiiliam(borough,
Oxford, Hillfborough, Martinville, Salem, Lexing
ton, Sahlbury and Statefville to Charlotte and from
Charlotte by Cabarras court-house to Salisbury, and
from thence by the fame rouLc 10 Halitax, once a
week;
Leave Halifax every Monday at 9 1 A M, arrive at
Warreuton by 7, P M, arrive at Hillfborough on
Wednesday at 4, P M, at Salem on Friday by 5,
P M, at Salisbury on Saturday at 4, P M, arid at
Charlotte ou Monday by 6, A As. Returning—leave
Charlotte on Monday at 10, A M, arrive at Salisbury
dn Tucfday by 10, A M, arrive at Salem |On Wed
nesday at 9, A M. at Hillfborough ou Friday by g,
AM, at Warrentonon Saturday at 7, PM, and at
Halifax «n Monday a'. 6, A M.
44. From Hillfborough by Mount Tirzah, Person
court-house, Leafburg, Cafwell court-house and Roc
kingham court-house to Germantown once in two
weeks.
Leave Hillfborough every otherThurfday at 6, A M,
and arrive at Germantown on Saturday at 4, P. M.
Leave Germantown every other Sunday at 6, A, M,
and arrive ?t Hillfborough on Tucfday at PM.
45. From Salem by Hethania, Huntfvilje, Roch
lord, Wilkes, Morgauton and Rutherford ton to Spar
tanburg in S. C. once in two weeks.
Leave Salein t vei y vther Saturday at 5 A m, and ar
rive at Spartanburg on Wednesday at 5 PM. Leave
Spartanburg every other Thursday at 7 a m, and ar
livc at Salem the next Monday at 6 p m.
46. Fiom LoUilburg by Nafh court-house to Tar
borough once a week.
Leave Tarborough every Friday by 6 a m, and ar
rive at Louifburg by 6 pm. Returnmg—Leave Louif
burg every Saturday by 6 a m, and arrive at Tarbo
rough by 6 r m.
47» From Raleigh by Smithfield, Wayncfborough,
and Kingilpn to Newbern, once in two weeks.
Leave Raleigh every other Tuesday by 8 a m, and
arrive at Newbern the next Friday by to a m#
Returning—Lent Newberja every other Friday by a
p m, arid arrive at Raleigh on Monday by 6 p m.
48. Ff;om Raleigh by Chapel hill to Hillfborough,
and from Hillfbocough by Chapel hill and Chatham
court-house to Raleigh, once a week. To wait two
hours at Chatham court-houlc.
Leive Raleigh every Tuesday by 6 a m, and ar
rive at Hillfborough by 6 p m. Returning—Leave
Hiljfborough ev£ry Wednesday by 8 a m, and arrive
at Raleigh on TkurWay by 10 a m.
49. From FayetteviUc by Elizabethtown, Bellefort
and Springfield to Wilmington, and from Wilming
ton by S. Wafhincton, Saic&o and Sampson court
house to Fayetieville, once a week.
Leave Fayetteville every Tuesday at 6*a m, and
arrive at Wilmington on Thursday at to a. m. Re
turmng —Leave Wilmington every ThurCday 14AM,
aud arrive at Fayetieville on Sunday by 5 ptvi.
50. From FayetteviUc by Alfordion and Randolph
coart-houie to Salisbury, and from Salisbury by Mont
gomery court-house, Anion ccu.t-houfe and Rich
mond court-house to Fayetteville, once a week*
Leave Fayetteville every Saturday at 6 a m, and
arrive at Salisbury on Tuesday by 9 a m, Leave Sa
liibury every Tuesday noon and arrive at fayetteville
on Friday by 6 p m.
51. From Newbern by Trenton and Richland to
Wilmingtou once a week.
Leave Newbern every Friday at 10 a m. and arrive
at Wilmington on Sunday by 6*. m. Leave Wil
mington every Tuesday at 10 am, and arrive at New
bern on Thursday by 6 p m.
SOUTH & NORTH-CAROLINA.
52. From Camden by Lancafler court-houle, Char,
lotte and Lincolnton to Statefville, once in two
weeks.
Leave Camden every other Monday at 6 a m, ar
rive at Statefville on Thursday by 6p m Leave Statef
ville every other Friday by 2 r m, and arrive at Cam
den on Monday by. 6 P m.
' SOUTH-CAROLINA,
53. From Columbia by Winnfborough, Chester
court-house, Pinckneyville, Spartanburg and
Greenville court-houfc to Pick£nfville, and
irom Pickenfvillc by Laurens courUboul'e and New
bury court house to Columbia, once a week : waiting
one hour at each poit-ofiice on the route.
Leave Columbia every Monday at 9 a m, arrive 3t !
Spartanburg every Wednesday by 3 p m,' arrive at
Pickenfville on Thuffday at4P M, arrive at Laurens
court-house on Friday at 4 p M,.and at Columbia on
Sunday by 6 pm.
54. From Columbia by Orangeburg to Charlcflon,
once a week.
Leave Columbia every Monday at 10 a m, and ar
rive at Charleston on'Thurfday at 10 a m. Returning
—Leave ChaTlefton Thurfday at % r m, and ar
rive at Columbia on Sunday at noon.
SOUTH-CAROLINA & GEORGIA<
55. From Edgefield court-house by Cambridge,
Abbeville court-house, Pendleton court-house, Hat
tonsford, Franklin court-house, Elberton and Peters
burg to Washington, and from Washington by Pe
terlburg and Cambridge to Edgefieid court-houfc,
once a week.
Leave Edgefield court-house every Friday byß aw,
arrive at Pendleton court-house on Sunday by 9 am
arrive at Franklin court-house by 7 p m, at Petersburg
on Tucfday by 10 am, and at Washington by p
m. Leave Washington every Wednesday at 6 am,
at Cambiidge on Thursday by 10 a m, and at Edge
field court-house hy 7 p m,
j6. From Augusta by Washington, Grecnfburg and
Lexington to Georgetown, once a week.
Leave Augusta every Monday at 3 r m, arrive at
Washington on Tucfday by $ r m, and arrive at
Georgetown on Thursday by 7 p m. Returning—
Leave Georgetown every Friday at 6 a m, aud arrive
at Augusta by fiflon ° n Monday.
57. From Gardens Corner to Beaufort once a week.
Leave Beaufort every Thursday at a p m, and arrive
at Gaidens Corner by 8 p m. Returning—Leave Gar
dens Corner every Thursday at 5 a m, arrive at
Beaufort by 10 a. m.
Note I. The Post Mafer General may alter the times
of arrival and departure at any time during the continuance
of the contracts, he previoujly Jlipulating an adequate com
penfaiion f»r any extra expense that may be occaftoned there
h»
Note 1. Half an hour Jhall be allowed Jor opening
and cloftng the Mail at all offices where ne particular time
is fpecifcd.
Note 3. For every how's delay (uvivoidab'e acc dents
ejccibtedJ in arriving after the times prefciibed in any con
t/ad, the Ccntraflor Jhall foijeil one dollar, and if the de
lay continue until the departure of any depending Mail,
whereby the Mails dejlmedfir such depending Mail, lose
? trip, an additional forfeiture of jive dollars shall be
incurred* ,
Note 4 Newspapers as well as Let'ers are to be sent
in the Mails ; and if any person making proposals desires
to carry nexvfpapers other than those conveyed in the mail,
for his own emolument, he mufl Jlate in his proposals sis
nvhat fumbe will carry it witL that emolument and for
Iwhat sam -without that emolument.
Note J - Should any person making proposals deftre an
alteration of the times of arrival and departure above fpe
cifed, he mull (late in his proposals the alterations debred,
an I the difference they -will make in the terms of hii cen
tral.
Note 6. Persons waking proposals are deftred to fate
their prices in gross by the ye at , and not by the mile.
\Chofe Ivbe contract will receive their pay quarterly, in
the months of January, April, July and October, in
drafts on thepoft offices on the route and in banknotes.
Note 7 The contracts are to be in operation on the frfl
day of April next, and oontinue for four years, until
the 3 \fl day of ..March inclusive, in the year i{so 2.
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Pofl-Majier General.
OtNERAL Post Office, ">
Philadelphia, December 18, 1797; _)
tuth&sti4thF
New-Theatre,
Dtcember n, 1797.
THE Managers particularly request the con
currence of the public in the abolition of a
custom, which has hitherto obtained, of giving a
way or disposing of RETURN CHECKS at the
Theatre.
They are aware that gentlemen are unconfeions
of any wrong done to t.ie interest of thc institu
tion by this pra&icc, from a general, though mis
taken idea that Checks arc the representatives of a
right to so many feats in tie Theatre, during an
Evening's Entertainment, and transferable at will;
when in faft, they were never intended as more
than tokens by which the Door-keepers are enabled
to afcettaia with the lead trouble to the parties, that
they ibemfelvet have heen before in the i'heatre, or
paid for their admidion.
Independent of the injury the Managers sustain,
such a prsftice encourages a croud of idle boys and
other disorderly perfoni. to surround the doors of
the Theatre, to the surruption of their moral* and
the great annoyance of the Audience.
It has also been the source of two evils of no in
considerable magnitude; one is, that fomctimes
very improper company is by these m«ens admit
ted ; and the other, that owa { to Checks palling
into dilhonell hands, they have been frequenaly
coonterfeited to a large amount for the purpofesof
Sale
This statement will, it is refpcSfully hoped, in
duce the PubSc to discourage such a traffic : and
the exertions of the Managers will, if thus assisted,
easily prove adequate to its entire abolition
WIGNELL REINAGLE.
Dacenaber 13 lw
Mtifical Inflrument Manufactory,
T67, Arch-flreet.
TO THE LOVERS OF HARMONY.
HARPER,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he has
now ready for sale, a few of his sew invented,
and much admired fide board Pfano Fortes, with
Pedalsf,'patent l'well, fonopahant and French harp
flop, which for sensibility of touch, brilliancy of
tone,{implicit} and durability of conftru&iou, the
superiority of flatters himfelf, a single, tri
al will convince the unprejudiced judge—As they
are manufactured under his immediate infpe-ftion,
of the very be®, seasoned materials, he oao fell on
reasonable terms for Cash. Inftrunnuts repaired,
tuned, See.
N. B. Second hand Piano Fortes taken in ex
change for new,.
November 18. y lawimo.
Samuel & Miers Fifher^
ARK NOW OPEMINU,
At their Warehouse, No. 27, Dock Street, a frefli
affortmcnt of Woolen and other goods, Suitable to
the season, Received by the hrte arrival) from Eng
land.
they havt also for Salty
Ltfbon -\
Teneriffe ( , , .
Sherry, and ( P l P"> h ' 1 <". »nd quarter cafkst
Port Wines, 3
Afiorted queen's ware in crates, &c.
10th mo - l.ld. dlw^tawjw.
FOR SALE,
By the Subscriber, at his Store, No. 75, South
Water-street, ,
A general aflartment of China
Ware
Black and coloured Sattins
Do. do. Luteftriags
Do. da. Handkerchiefs
Do. do.
Imperial and HyfonTea*
Long and Ihort Naakeeni
Quick Silver, in tubs
Holland Gin, in pipes
Afiorted Glass Ware, in cases
White and brown Havanna Sugars, in boxss
Molafles, in hoglheads
St. Croix Rum and Sugar, in do.
London particular Madeira Wine
Sherry and Malaga Wines, in quarter casts
Red, yellow and pale Barks, in chefls
Logwood, &c. &c.
»«,. 7. _ JOSEPH SIMS.
Imported in the brig Eliza,
Capt. HASTIEj/rsra Bourdeaitx ;
Claret in Cases of a very superior quality,
White Sauterne Wine in Cases,
Olive Oil'in bakets of > % bottles each,
White and coloured Kid Gloves,
do. do. Silk do.
A few pipes ofßourdeaux Brandy,
For Sale by
JAMES LATIMER,jun.
71, South Wharves.
Who has also for Sale,
A few qr. Calks Old Sherry Wine.
Dec. f. dtw
For bale by the Subscriber,
10 bales Codas
40 do. Ba&ss
XI do. Mamoody
17 do. Chintz
7 do. Tookery
2 do. Gorahs
»5 do, Moragungees
3 do. Check Stripes
I do. Guzzie
I box Diapers
7 do. Umbrellas
»5 pipos fined particular Madeira Wine, of
the vintage *79 J.
MORDECAI LEWIS.
December j. 3aw4w
To be fold,
AN ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain
ing 6 acres and 40 perches, wyth a neat tw®
story brick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, &c. situate on the Irish tra& lane, in the
township of Moyamenfing, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be made known upon application at (he office of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon this place, for taste and
elegance, stand unrivalled.
Deceirtber-I. dtf
For Savannah,
TO SAIL THE FIRST OPENING,
«J'he faft failing ship s
t&WC SWIFT PACKET,
Patrick Gribben, Master,
NOW lying the firft wharf below
Market Street—has handsome ac
commodations for paflengtrs—For freight or pas
sage apply to the Master onboard, or to
N. Ss 1 y. Frazer,
No. 95, South Front Street.
Who have on hand, and for Sale,
Prime Rice, in whole and half tierces, Georgia
and Carolina Indigo, Molasses injhhds, Teneriffe
wine, &c. &c
December 27 3 tawtf.
Wanted to Charter,
riT?V Britifli veflel, fifteen hundred
tvvo five hundred bar-
Peter Blight,
WHO HAS FOR SALS,
Choice Red Port Wine in pipes and hoglhea
and olfi London Particular Madeira, fit ior imme
diate afe, in pipes.
December ao §j w
For Char left on, x
1~»-- THE SHIP
, sghr ' v E N U S, V
J Ly ing gt tie wharf of Mejfrs. Perot is
<■ will take Freight on very
| ow terms, and fail the firft
opening.—Apply to the mailer on board, or to
Jos. Anthony isf Co.
Detember 18 § }
For Amfterdara,.
FAR 1?E R,
; J OHN M'Co-llom, Master ;
■ ?9I^s4>«WILL fail in a few days; the
r eater part of her cargo being
ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coffee, or pat
sage, apply to the master on board, at Walnut
ftreet wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who ii Landing, of the said Ship, from Bear
deaux, and For Sale,
Claret in hhds.
White Wiue in quarter calks
Claret in cases, of a superior quality
Fontiniac,
Sauterne, > Wines in cases ' >
Lunille, )
Prunesin boxes
noveml'er 24. ; {
For Londonderry,
THE BRIGANTINE
William Written, Master.
St»'^ts«WßK , Y'' A strong good vessel, about two
hundred tons, to fail With all convenient speed, a
great, part of her cargo, engaged.—no.w lying at
Willing and Francis's wharf. For freight or pai
fage, apply to the captain, or
JOHN SKYRXN,
Landctilsrgcrs wharf.
Who wants to Charter,
A Vessel of about three hundred tons.
nov I 8. §
For Sale or Charter,
SMI good hope,
.''(/yfiltn Will carry about noo barrels,and
' s read y to ta^' * wrgo. For terms
wi 1 it 11 n 1 fir apply to
Pragers & Co.
No. 151, South Seceod-ftreet.
Who have forfale—prime St. Croix Sugar and
Rnsn, Madeira, Lisbon, and Teneriffe wir.c. t
November 7. dtf.
For Liverpool,
7'he copper bottomed Ship
Hamburg Packet,
TVafT-SaWk Captain Silas Swain.
A Large proportion of har
• ' -LiL cargo being ready to go on
board, is expedtcd to fail on or about Sunday, the
3d of December.
For Freight or Passage, apply to the Captain o»
board, at Walnut-street Wharf, or to
PHILIP NICKLIN erf Co.
November 11. §
For Savannah, in Georgia,
THE SHIP
Sally Butler,
Captain Chisholm,
A new v effei, with excallent
i accommodations for passengers
Sails on the loth of December. For Freight or
Passage, apply t« IjIOSS & SIMSON.
IVLt lave tf difptfe of,
A small invoice of GLAUBER SALTS
INDIGO, aijd a parcel of HOLLY WOOD.
November 18. §
* FOR SALE, bi " "
Joseph Anthony & Co.
No. 5, Chefnut Street,
A cargo of choice Bourdcaux Brandy, id and li
proof, just landed
150 bales of Bourbon cotton of a fupsrior quality
9 do. Surat, do do
A quantity of heavy black pepper in halei
Bourbon Indigp of the firft quality
High proof Jamaica lpirits
Old London particular Madeira wine ? In pipes &
do. market do f qr. calks.
New England rum in hpgflieads
Genuine Holland G'm in pipes
Claret in cases
Spermaceti candles and ftrain'd oil
Prime Boston beef
Choice Halifax Salltan in barrels and half barrel*
Do. Herring in do do
Bell Boston Mackarel in barrels of the fail fare.
New-England tow l : »en
A few tons ofßulfia cordage
Russia feather beds
Clover and Timothy feed in :>(ks
Long whale-hone
No 1, z, and 3, Boston fail duffc
A few chests firil quality Hyfon'tca
Carolina rice in whole and half tierces and
An invoice of Dutch hollow, glass ware.
November 8. djw.
This day is Published,
At the Qfiije of the Aurora, No. 11a, Market Street
[ Price one dollar and a half,]
A view of theconduft of the IXECUTIVEin the
FOREIGN AFFAIRS of the United Siatjs, conneft
edwitkthe Million to thp French Republio during
the years, »794, 5, 6, '
Bv JAMES MONROE,
Late Minister Plenspolentiary to the said RepubHc
llluftrated by his INSTRUCTIONS and COR
RESPONDENCE and other authentic documents,
A very liberal allowance to those who bay to fell
again.
December 131 *s^