of ti-e WtlitZ'U§&tUttß* l and Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
NvMBEJt 1620]
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DRT GOODS.
S Forenoon—Edward Fox, No. ss,
foiMh Frorr-ftreef,
" 1 Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 65
C Soath Front-street.
f' Forenoon—.Joho Connelly, Old City
%ue£iai< Auflion, No. 73 fou/h Front-street.
) Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
(. 18.? High-street.
IVtdxifda? \ Af r t " I l O0 "r -I ! { 'L Cr 3enfon ' No - 74
? south Third-ftrcet.
Tburfday \ Forenoon—Edward Fox.
C Afternoon —Jolan ConHelly.
Friday I Farcnoon—William Shannon.
5 Afternoon—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—»Peter Benfon.
Sales of Lumber, &c.
WILL BE SOLD,
A* W JZDUESDAT, the hTui inji. preciftly at y o'chot '
in the morning,
At C. Emlen's Lumber Tard,
In the Northern Liberties, near the Hay Scales, j
All the Perianal Property there
reaiainiog belongingtothe estate of Caleb Eml n> i
deceased, conSftmg of the following valuable j
articles, viz.
Several hundred of White Pine, Hemlock !
and Oak Logs, to be fold in l.ts of about thre« I
thousand fe«t sach.
I l-», 4, 2 and 3 inch Oak Planks assart- !
jj cd, „-nofl of which ape of the best ftuff for
the use and buildise of (hips » " |
u 2, and 3 1-2 issi White Pine Plauk. for ;
g quarter Reci»
"3 1 I-a to jl Inch Aft Pfarks
> Hfsdeck Scantling assorted
g Sis pieces Hemlock jo feet in leng h, atvl 2 '
a pieces 27 feet
White I'ine Scantling, Scantling
» Maple Boards, Quarter Rails
S Spinning Wed Stuff, Whale Pieces 40 feat
u long
A vjlnable affjrUaent of White Oak Flitch
H Stuff
And several separate parpelt of old Plank, &c.
i'l I o,
Two large copper Stills, with
' Worms, Heads, &c.
A good sorrel Horle—an old Chaise and Sulkey
A large Spinning Wheel and Reel
A number of still honfe "Jarrs, two log Trucks, a
cutting Box and Knife, a large Feed Box, a
/mail Anchor, a Scale with Beam, and a number
of 561b. Weights, a good Mill Saw, a writing
Defc with sundry articles in Comptiogrhoufe,
two pair ei good Pillols, a parcel of old Iron,
Cables, Ropes, &c. Liirwft,
Tffe wheel works of a Horse
; .w/tfi'l, * lete and in good order.
9k cli A srioptUT i ..b« 'Wi r ous of pttirchafUj
any fd *-l» .'<• "u* ti ibtrry to riew them on
the pie*.ifes,/ e.ai AltfcoiiUntly »tt* d
everyday to the fie. Ctrperitris, -
ber Mel-chants, Buildefs, &c »iay have ?,favo> i
ble opportunity of purchauog Lumber, Sic. to
more advantage at this Die than elsewhere, which
do doubt will conuuand their attention.
Purchafersto a larger amount than one hundred
dollars «iay be accommodated Oxty days cre
dit on approyed ipdorfed Dotes.
Sold by Order of
JAMES VAUX', ar*d
CHARLES PI EASANTS,
Attorvryj infoQ U Mil* Ehlen, file F.*ec*trix.
Footmsin is? Co. Autfrs.
nvotmler irl. ' eoitd«
" ——
Canal Lottery—No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, the zoth
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at '*
Seven Dollari, as WM. BLACKBURN's I.ottcry
and Brokers Office, No. 64, t-outh Second-flreet—
Tickets til the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
Dollars, where chick books are kept lor repflct
ing and examining in these, the City of Washing
ton, No. 11. and Paterfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may be had in moil of the Lotte- ]
ries authorised by lawn any of the States of the
Union.
N. B. The btifinefs of aßao-KER, in buying and
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
discounting Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, Houses, &c. &c. will be duly attended to,
by Wk. BLACKBURN.
November Ij. §
~ FQR~sALEr»~r
Joseph Anthony £ff Co.
No. s, Chefnut Street,
A cargo of choice flourdeaux Braady, ift and 2d
proof, jufl landeo
250 hales of Bourbon cotton of a fuperier quality
9 do. Surat, do do
A quantity of heav> black pepper in bales
Bourbon Indigo of the firft quality I
High proof Jamaica ipirits
Old London particular Madeira wine ?In pipes & 1
do. market do ( qr. caiks.
New England rum in hogsheads
'Genuine Holland Gin in pipes
Claret in cases -
Spermaceti candles andftrain'd oil
Prime Boston beef
Choice Halifax Salmon in barrels and half barrels 1
Do. Herringindo do
Best Boston Mackarel in barrels of the fall fare.
New-England tow l : »sn
A few tons of RnOia cordage
Ruflia feather beds
Clover and Timothy feed ia «asks
i-ong whale-bone
No 1, 2, and 3, Boflon Tail dock
A few chests firft quality Hyson tea
Carolina rice in whole and half tierces and
An invoice of Dutch hollow glass ware. c
November 8. diw.
15 Dollars Reward.
RAN-AW AY from the Sublcriber, on the 29th
inft. an apprentice I.ad, named JOSEPH
BARNET, by trade a paper-maker j about 19
years of age, five fe?t seven or eight inches high, i
of a light complexion, tics his hair. Had on, and
took with him, a caltor hat, half worn, one brown
mixture cloth eoatec, new, one light do. half G|
worn, one llriped velvet waiflcoatf with blue _j
cloth hacks, one do. with fuftian backs, and sun
dry other thin clothes. It is probable he will change
his clothes, as he took a number with him. ,
Any person apprehending said apprentice, and
{ccurinj him lo that I can gEt him again, lhall re- 2
ceive the above reward, and rcal'onable charges if
brought home.
PETER BECHTEL.
Lower Merion township,
Montgonery counts.
N 1.-niavr jw.
P 111 LA DEL PHI A: FRIDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 17, 1797
Jtffesk, Wanted to Charter,
one port in Hifpaniola and back
faft foiling VelTel,of the bur
>, then of 6 9r_XQO Fqr terms, ajply to
BewjAMiN Morcak.No. rSbiltK flreet,
j or to ROBERT ANDEEIVS,
No. 86, South Vvi:;ir /\.
V rmtmher 10. §
PHILJP tyICIvLIN Go.
HAKE FOR SALH,
At their Stores on Walnut ftrcet Wharf,
Havannah Sugars, whiteandbfown
2J hhds Jamaica do.
3000 pi res of broad Nankeens
Imperial Tea, in quarters and eighths of chests
Quiclcfilvcr in tubs
Madeira Wine in pipt'.i and hogfceads >
Tencriffj Wine in pipes
Old i«d Fort Wine in hogsheads
Sail Canvass, assorted, No. I to B
£ cases of Manchester Goods, confining of Dimities,
t MufUn£ts,Gingharos,Thickf<tt»,Cordiirc>y#, &e.
| 200 crates Queens' War#, assorted
i Nails, assorted
I Black quart Bottles ,
! Yellow Ocre in caiks
- A quantity of writing Slates, slate Ink Stands, 4cc.
, I jq© quarter caftj Gun Powder
3 j 'lh-\ have ulfofor SALE or CHARTER,
•j HAMBURG _ PACKET,
'' ! «® urt^cn 3 ao tons, coppered to
; tha bends, and completaiy fitted.
MOLLT, burthen 340 tons, a
t good* vessel, and completely fitted.
I The Ju'ig AMAZON, burthen ijqo bar-
Jypls. be rmsAy inr I] 4 iii a few iUy «.
1 Tfct. whoK* of Li;c aittrc Tirtci* t-o- he i»*en at
I Walnut flreet Wliart'. $ ncu Ic.
For i>ale or Charter,
jSgL GOOD HOPE,
Will carry about 1400 barrels, and
' 8 ready to take in a cargo. For terms
rrraST. Jg apply to
Pragers tsf Co.
No. tjl, South Second-ftrcet.
Who hare for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar and
Rnm, Madeira, Lilbon, and Tcneriffe wine.
November 7. , dtf.
for Hamburgh,
WILMINGTON,
Captain Hllman ;
A Stauncb, faft failing, Phi
ladelpMa built vessel, of
live oak and cedar, is now in complete and
will fail with all pofflble speed, having great part of
her cargo already engaged. For freight or paf
f'j?e (having excellent accommodations) apply to
the captain on board, or to
Sut"me" & Brown* I
\ Who have on hand,
Gonaives Cotton, Sugar, Mo
laflVs, and a few thousand weight of excellent Cor
dage, including several Cables of ,8$ & I I inches.
novrmSer 3. tuth&stf
I 4 or London,
willmm'penn,
_ James Jofiah, Majler,
' A.?-JctKJ "• with all coaven
\ V ient expedition. For
Freight or Paflage, apply to the Captain, ®r to
Jcffc is 1 Robert Wain.
OiH. jt. ' $
For London,
THE snip
Daniel M'Pherfon, Majler. |
TO fail with all convenient speed—a confidera- ,
blc part of her «»rgo being already engaged.
For terms of Freighter P adage, apply to
RoJ's iff Simfon.
oa. Nt
Port and Madeira Wine,
Now Landing,
By {hip Edward, from Madeira, and Betsey and
p «ggy> fr « m Oporto, in Pipes and Hogsheads, t
For file by .
PETER BLIGHT.
WHO ALSO OFFJfcR 8 FOR SAL»,
a m i t r,
Four thousand barrels burthen,
excellent order—ready to take
in a cargo —about three years eld.
LIKEWISE,
The Schooner Industry,
Burthen 800 barrels, ready also to receive a car
go—and a quaufcity of
Jamaica Rum and' Sugars,
Just landed from the above veflels at South ftrcst
wharf. eoim. Nov. I. ®
For Charter,
the ship
"John Bulkley,
Samuel'Valans, Majler. a
yeflcl 13 built of live oak c
I _*=£_- >JL CC£ j ar> 0 f a bout 30CC _
barrels burthen, and ready to receive on board a
cargo.
JeJfe & Robert Wain.
o<3. 31. $ t\
For Freight or Charter, ti
T»E GOOD BRIG
s U K E Y, v
Isaac Vredenburg, Master ;
NOW lying at Clifford's wharf, and in complcat ~
order to receive a cargo. For terms please to ap
ply the Captain on board, or
Juhn Siyrin, T
No. 81, Arch-ftrect. |
WHO HAS FOR SALE,
2000 wt.of doublerefinedSaltpetre ~
600 wt. of F F Gun Powder
300 barrels of Herrings
50 buihels of Timothy Seed 2
150 cafe--of Claret, fird quality re
And a quantity of Sherry Wine. m
Sept. X). dtf
Ly John en no, N° 119 Chefnut Street.
For Hamburgh,
j— The Brig MARY,
r- , • Piter A'og*. nuiter,
to »• Lying at Ruflci'i . harf.flcarFFien e
:t, ■» ry??[wtyfe is now ready Io take iu ,
Cargo, and will fail iu tsmUyi.
Pur Freight, ox Parage,. apply to
\ November 16 <!t[
Rwndle b' Leech,
Have full received, and Have for Sale, at ho. 9,
tl Walnut-Qreet,
Liverpool and St. Übes SALT
Do, bed heufe CO A LS
Queens' WARE in calee, affbrted
Bourdeaux BRANDY of an excellent quality
80. CLARE f in cases, do.
tjfjjk-n THIiV HAVE ALSO
<rggjfc For SALE or CHARTER,
"■ §111? PEGGY,
Burthen o*s tons, in excellent condition, and
may be sent to fen with little ex pence or delay.
LIKEWISE f -
THE BRIO
WILLIAM,
'Mktf '*■ Burthen 201 torn,
ncvetnltr 16. 6
> For Site or Charter,
1 A B I 1 L,
(Lying V Morris' V"!harf, udar
the Drawbridge)
.0 "E jsa Caurich, well fitted vtJTel, almost new,
y l«u«tk»n m tons, and isiappofod will carry
11 or noo barrels, and lails faft. . If notfoldtna
few days, she will t»ke Freight for Boston. Balem,
Newburyport, Poitfmoth, or the Weft-ladies.—
/.pply to WHARTON £7* LEWIS.
No. 115, S. Front-Street.
IVbo £«»ffor sale,
Madeira Wine, Jamaica Rum, Brandy, Juni
per Berrios, and 70 barrels of Liver Oil.
A quantity of Polatoet felling from on
board said brig at is. 6d. per buQiel.
twT>tmbcr 15. §
For Sale or Charter,
The fall failing brig
Brothers,
Lying at Gurling's wharf,
an excellent Tingle dcck'd veflel, burthen about
1600 barrels— not twelve months old, and in
campleat order. For terms apply to the mailer
on board, or to
Jofsph Anthony iff Ce.
P«y- diw.
Five years old Madeira Wine,
OF the very firft quality, in pipes, hhds. and
quarter calks, just landed from the ihij, EdwarcJ,
frcm Madeira, and for fah; by
JOHN CRAIG,
No. la, Doek-ftreet.
WHO HAS FOR CHARTER,
The Brigantiru
*J3«|§|V CHARLOTTE,
Burthen about Ino barrels,
. *l™ ■ just hove down and put in com
plete order, and now ready (o receive a cargo..
' J Alfc, F,r SALS ,r CHARTER,
jJJfcjgfck. ' The Ship
J|||§|» JOSEPH US, :
Burthen about jßoobatrels.
ntver-btr l<. -sawtf.
For Liverpool,
jjAi? CL or ifl ER,
Nathaniel D. Gardner,r»«/7rr,
a ' !out 'he 13th
\\ p or f rc or pas
sage apply to the Captain, at Vanuxem's wharf,
or to JAMES OLDDF.N,
m>v. 3. dtf No. 41, N- Frort-ftreet.
l*or Sale by the Subscribers,
Prime Rice in swhole and half tierce*
Bout deaux Brandy
Teneriffe Wine
Molajfes .
Georgia and Carolina Indigo
Ravens Duck and one bogfhead of faint
brujhes.
N. is? J. Frazer.
No. 95, Sonth Front Street. '
Nov. 1, J i„f.
.ROSS & SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Coflas, and
a quantity of B-ngal COTTON c
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica, "J ,
St. Vincents, ( RUM.
and Bengal j
300 calks RJCE, :nd , '
A parcel of lhip building RED CEDAR.
_Oa. 17. f j
To Gentlemen who intend /pending c
the Winter in the City. t
—— j
RQOMS to LET, 1
WITH or without Board—at No. 114, corner k
of Sixth and Race Street*. The situation v
agreeable—andvicimty has been free from the late c
contagion. 0&. a 7 .—dtf t
James Richard Smith,
TAKE the liberty of informing their friends
and the pwblic, that they have removed their
llore to No. 54, SoUib FrontJlrcct, next d»or to Ed-
ward Fox's Au&ion Room, where they have at
1 this time for iale, a large and general aflortweitt of
European £s° Eajl India Goods,
Many of which are just imported in the Clothier,
William Penn, &c. &c.
Oft. 27. it
Samuel Pleafants & Sons,
No. 74, South Second-Jlrcct,
HAVE received a fu'ppfy of Seaf'onable GOODS, li
which they are novr openiug for ialc, on
rcafpfcnble Qfl 27 — G ]
Wanted, to Hire,
A I arge an 1 convenient HOUSE, in or near 01
the centre of the city—far vyjiich a generous 1'
rent will be given ; to be taken for a year, or on qI
mcr ? for a long'tr term. Inquire of" the Printer.
t)2t, 17. dvtf
EVENING SCHOOL.
Lewis
INFORMS the Public, that his Evening
School will open on Monday next, for the
a winter season, at No. 201, Arch Street.
Nov. 16. *d3t.
WANTED tVRENT, ~~ ""
A Coach House and Stable,
Fit four Hories, in the neighborhood of Fifth
and Aith streets -Apply to Mr. Evans, at 119
. Arcl * |t nov. 16.
A youngMan,who is acquainted
With accounts, wifues employment. He will give
security for any ttuft reposed in. him, and retotn
n-.endatio.ns if required. Should bufinef, offer
where extra hours of attendance are necessary, he
would have Do objeaion— a great fjlary would not
be diredied to B. B. and left at
this office, wiO be attended to.
"»f M. '
i Samuel 6c Miers F;fher,
ARE NOW OPENING,
At their War.ehoufe, 27, Dock Street, a frufli
aflortment of V»Toolcn and other goods, !u;taLle to
the season, received by thclste arrivah from Knr
land. ; s
I Lave also fir Salt.
I-ifbow
Teperiife /
Sherry, and f and quarter «asks-
Port Wines, )
A flowed queer's
' loth mo* diwjtaw jw.
, WAUKK & Kennedy,
No. 73, South Fr&nt Street,
HAVE FOR fAlrE f
100 Hogsheads of prinje Georgia Tobacg©,
ALSO,
50 Pipes of Bonrdeaux Brandy,
10 Pipes of oU Port Wine-
J7 ' 1
N 0 1 I C E.
The holders of certificates of a
loan to tjie exijed citizens of th« State of South Ca
rolina and Georgia, under an-a<S«f Congiefs
July, 1781, are informed, that by lodging the f<m»
with Georgo Simpfon, Calhier of the Bank of th«
United States, they vill be enabled to receive"pay
mont of principal and interest, atfoon as the cert*,
flcates can be forwarded to Charleston for fettle
ment, and orders Received for their discharge.
November i. fit
A Negro Man.
IJ'OR SALE, the uaexpired me (four y ears)
of a stout, healthy, a&ive egro Man. He
la by trade a Cooper, was brought up when a boy
to the farming business, is a good ploughman, un
derftandsthe care end management of horses, and
it a good driver He has lately been employed in
painting a new heufe aid paints well—he it good
tempered, and believed to be very honed, fold part*
ly for want of employ, but more for keing sdditft
ed to liquor—For termt apply to No. i», Dock
street, near (pruce ftrcet.
Nov.6> tf
Window Glass,
Oi Superior Quality, and cheaper than any oihor io
theCiiy—
OF FaMWUS SIZES,
From Bbv 6 to 1
Bv the Box or Quanti'.y, rry»y be had at ibe 1
store of tfee SuUlcribers, coruei of Arch and Froni-
Orcet.
James C. Iff Samuel W. Fijher.
p.hibr<elohi», juneQ, »7Q7. Slwmwftf
0 Philadelphia, 03. 24th 9 1797.
ALL perfocs deijrous to contraA to furnifh Ra
tions and Quarter Matter's Stores,during the
year for the troops in Philadelphia, Fort
Mifflin, oti Mud Lfland, Cariifle ana Reading, or
any of them, are desired to deliver the:r proposals,
under a sealed cover, on or before the acth No
vember next to
TENCH FRANCIS, Purveyor.
The Rat'tQns to conftfl of
I pound Flour or Bread
1 pound Beef, or 3 4 of a pound of Porlf
I gill Rum, Brandy or Whiskey
1 lb Candles "N
2 JuartTVinegar f T ° Q ""* huudred " tioBS
I quart gait J &lftijjthN
In the Press,
And fpccdily will be published by Wi n,i a jvt
Young, No. 52, Second, the corner of
Chefnut Street,
A VIEW
Of the Science of Life ;
On the priuciplea eftabliftied in th» elements
of Medicine, of the late eelebrated
JOHN BROWN, ED.
With an attempt to correfl some important er
rors of that work, and cases in illuArafion, chief
ly fetched from the recorts of their practice, at
the General Hospital at Calcutta,
Br William 7'at is Iff Chas. Mclean.
To which is subjoined, a Treatile on the ailian
of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica- c
tion for the cure of diseases of indiredl debility
And-adifiertation onthe sources of Epidemicand.
Peftilentialdifeafes; in whichisattcinpted toprove
I by a numerous induction of fails, that they lie
ver arile from contagiop, but are always produ
ced by certain Hates, or certain viciflitudes of
the atmosphere, by Charlbs Maclean, of
Calcutta.
Just published, ,
And to be fold at the Bcokfltiret of H. & P.
Uice, No. 50, Marktt-llreet 1 J. Ormrod, L
No. 41, Chefnut-flreet, and W. Yoting,
corner of Chefnut and Second-streets,
An accurate System of Surveying;
IN WHICH IS CONTMNI'D, . ol
I. Decimal fradlions, in a plain, coucift, ;
•and easy manner.
a. Theextrailion as the fqtiare root.
3. Plaintrlgonom«ti'y> reilangUlar afld ob
lique. , : e
4. An exadl method to call up the contents ,
of lands.
j. Field furvtribp. f!l
Tbe wholebeinof performed without the ufc w
of scale and cnmpalfra, on a table of lojjirithms, 0 f
In which is given some account of the variation
Qt' the needle, and the caiifea cf its attraction, w
By SAMUEL MOOKE. c.
Al»f<l<l*, UVF
Gardeners take notice !
PHh (üb.'criber, living in Proaj, and corr.rr of
* 7 .urge Arrets propofcs raovir.g ioon, imi
,„ s naviry a quantity of excellem aW>ki«-e»an4 »t. fli
:be ''tf* 1 - 1 *® 3 . with a number of jauog trees ii.
jrwima, offer» ilmoi it Privets Sal- .
loldlbcfre Saturday, the 18th in.'l. at a o'clo. x.
- r t, a [ tmioon . then will bo put up at i'utj
llc VcnJuc, on the prepaiGes.
The House ami Garden is t 0 !-e let, an ' i. aC! ~
d ate pofleflion given, for the r nt of which
fth to John Little, no. 40, north -Sxth ttfc t.
*? John col:.: -a.
_ n'.-vmhr 14.
d " TO' BE LEf,
2 A fpacioHs dry floored Cel'ir
- L . r at the N. E. corner of 4th and Arch-streets'
he Nov - d«
ot _ —^ J
at REMOVAL.
Maurice Moynihan,
' hi INF ° RM f fHend - and the P" blic ' t hat he
tal removed his Store of China, Glals, Queens
Ware, and D.ry Goods, from No. 81 North Se
eor.d, to No. 7 x North Seventh Street, north eirft
5- vor fW r A ,Cy ' W " Cre he fo'Wtt the a-
vor of his iormcr cu iomers.
iiofice 3 ' ClAta> p]Ut up wish oare at the fliorteft
S " J u f l PMifbed, and now SettnPy
By BENJAMIN DA VIES
At ln> BfJoK-.'-Togf, No 6* w;„v, e. \
-Ike AMERICAN JtErbsVTQRY*
' A <? Wfi£ ,k,UNITED STATES
. FOR THE year ~ g .
Containing complete an d correA Hit, of the Execu-
UPPiH u 'rl«h?', t '' Vt aod
. MEN I.S of GOVERNMENT
And a variety of ufeful table,, necessary to b,
""ZV" C r ry ' SUt<! of the
- ft,, ? w, "\ iv " Snrravire,,
•W '• deprive of a melancholy fcer.
that occurred during the American w,r.
I Landing this day,
<i From on board , Two Friend,, Dan
'* SUJ le 'Crawley, Mailer,
1# 80 hhds. and ) T„ m ■ r>TT»»
11 pipes 5 Jamaica RUM,
*. FOR SALE BY
" George Latimer Iff Son.
uovemher 9. r
" Eor iale by the Subicriber 1
No. 89, South Third street,
) A few calks of high proof Brandy
e 60 Tierces frefh aice
y 40 Boxes of Chocolate
i- A large quantity of assorted window glass, anrf
d 200 pieces fail cloth, No. I to 8 •
n Ravens Duck, Mace and Gum Senegal. '
* Samuel Breck, J U n.
N. B. An excellent Compting House to let fe
k Ro(1 ' ' wharf. 6taod Mov. a .
Landing,
- From on board the Clip Edward, at Walnut*
ttrset Wharf,
n London particular Madeira Wine
of a superior quality, I'or Sale by the fuhftriber'.
Robert Andrews.
c ndyember j. , eotf -
for sale,
By the Subscriber , at his Store, No. 75, Sooth
Water- street,
. A general aflortment of China
Ware
Black and coloured Sattins
j Do. do. LHteflriKjjf
t Do. d#. Handkerchief!
r , ®°* fewing Silks j
Imperial and Hyson Teas ?
Long and ftort Naskcena
Quick Silver, in tubs
Holland Gin, in pipes
Aflorted Giafs Ware, in cases
White and brown Havanna Sugars, in bcaces
Moiaffes, in hotrfheads
St. Orcit Rum and Sugar, in do.
London particular Madeira Wine
Sherry and Malaga Wines, in quarter ca&s
Red, ypllow arid pak Barks, in chcfls
I.O)jwood, &c. &c.
7—tu&f<w JOSEPH SIMS.
, India Goods,
f CONSISTING OF
Haurial Humhums
vTickices
P2tna Chintz
t'affaties
Punjum Clotlis
Choppa Romal, Pulicat, Barhar and Bfifi
danna Handkerchiefs
fOR SrtLE BY
JoJhua GUpin,
No. 149, South Front flreet»
WHIRE MAY BE HAD
A few trunks of French Goods,
Confining of plain and striped Silk Hose, Um
brellas and K ibbons. Alfe, a few boxe9 Sperma
ceti Candles, and a few barrels frnoaked Herrings.
m-ynrhr 10. «,- n H6t
This Day Publilhed,
Audtobe fold by WILLIAJiI YOUNG, corner »f
Secopd and CJiefnut streets,
Price 2-&tbs cf a Ehilar,
Ob/ervations on certain Documents
Containc. 1 in No. V and VI of
" The History of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In which the chaboe or speculatios against
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secretary of the Treasury, is fULLT
REFUTED.
irRITTSM Br ulms b1 r.
This publication picfents a coneifr ftatemen*
of the bale meaus praitifed by the Jacobins of ti<«
; United States to afperfu the eSaradlers of ihofis
p»rl'ons who arc coaildered as hostile to their difur
prizing ftheinep. It also contains the cor
reipondence between Mr. Hamilton and Messrs.
Monroe, Mublenburgh and Vcnible, on the fub
je<a of the documents aiorefaid, and a dries of let
ters from Reynolds his wife to Mr. Ha
milton, proving beyond the possibility cf a deufct,
that the council ion between hiiu and Reynold?,
was the rel'ult of a daring conspiracy on the j.ai t
of the latter ami his affcciatcs to extort money.
a (lifcouot of one third from the retail pi Ke
will be n l ..n _* ivi of vvholej. tie purchasers, for -
cash. CrJera t» be to Mr Ys»>a.
1 Ausru r i 2^,
[y&LVME XII||Hl 1 i ii wmmiihh i—mmmm society, 1)3
' XiiC t3aVctfe7 S*'hVi«
—•— have fonn
•p HI LA DELP HI A, inerica ; l
run - y vf.-.t ■«, *W* ' 7 " • c f. T?
' added, th:
' f n .:> tb s COLUUt-lAN CtisTixr.l. ly oppose
that motl
To t?jg R'*hl Reverend Father in GOD, Anieiica
'cumt. t, B fiop of Norwich, i:> the ling- t ; on . T
dotn \f Grcat~Briiain. have boei
my lord, , heard th<
la your ftrmon, preached at the church ta g es f ro
Sain' M'iry 1' BoW, in London, en the Shoul
1 7 th of February, lift, befoie the society for t ' p( - preft
vrona-ratinff the gospel in foreign parts, yo'i c f Ainer
c ,id an elceatit tribute of reipeA to tb«cha- ; n aebted
r i&er of the iiltiftrious WASHINGTON. Should
Thisi is highly pleasing to every American wr ; tten -
reads your discourse. Perhaps there Americ.
was never more truth expressed,- with to an ]
Jnu-'h elegance in the fame number of words. ] y hiveft
As you ire speaking of the Americans, you n f a // t h
fiv, » One of whom, the western world t hc wor
vvill boast, so long as her ftoryMhall te told, art 3 ;, 3V
and virtue rtfpeCled- The extent o[ his a3 ma ny
talents, the Itrnpiicity of his manners, the found 1
•purity of his morals, his well regulated am- Who i
iition, his approved paTrioufm, have ranked Who ,
him with the firft charaders of the age." clouds i
Hid you, rr.y Lord, been an eye witness now in
to his conduct, under the mo ft trying exi- ucat ion
, er.cios of human life, of the unequalled The
firmnefs of his mind, in the mod hazardous countr;
<i:u itions, of rtfc integrity and patnotilm ot In( j ian .
his heart, in the greatcft possible temptations, ; n ; t .
' you night, with great propriety, have vrh.ch
fa ; d that his chara&er is unexampled in hit- equal
torv and unequalled in the age in which he Here 1
l : ves result "
'As your sermon was in the usual occa- r if e , w
tonal style, and calculated to increase dona- 0 f the.
Votis, a« wfll as'Tn fatisfy f<»rmer benefaftors withoi
with the expenditures of their money, we ftitut?.
r-av iuftly conclude, that you supposed an are t h,
elegant tribute of praise to our lllurtrious j inf^
American, would have » beneficial influence rope
with that part of your audience who delight C onqu
■{■ a the b'appinefs of mankind. by so
As we ought to believe that every one his re
who enters the sacred desk, does it under , n f a i,
tbe ftrongc-ft impreflions .of sincerity and a l C ap
• -truth, withdttt fraitd, deception or disguise, deleg
■we are obliged to attribute some of the len- f e l vea
timefita of your fevmon, to that ignorance, them
which has been so often detested in sermons are f
• preached before that society. duce
Youfavofthe Americans, We found si
tbcr.i in the lowest state of society, in the an ac
darkest stage of ignorance." Had you not t h e c
bv f-.bfequent words, exposed your own cf ff a
meaning, we might have fairly concluded, ~y ,
that you \v<re here speaking of, and def- ft ea( ]
cribing the aboriginal inhabitants, the native
Indians. When tbe date of your society a nd
for propagating the gospel is seen, and the ,h< ,
fitustlon of the Anglo Americans, or white peofi
people of tfiis .continent, at that period is .
underltdoTtTiTo 01 >- can fu PP° fc T 0 " l ? mean tlon
them But when referring to W (hington, 1 py>
« One of whom, &c." we then are convinced you
that you cannot mean the native Indians ;
' unlef' you could have Walh.ngton
descended them. You go on to fay,
We have left them an enlightened peop.e, 1
•«rvflVfTincr in every walk of life, many emi- ! p
ch.u,« r . : Were of i
we to take the whole ofyour fenttmenUon £
this fubjeft together, we should be compelled
to fuppofc you to be speaking of an enlight- (ra]
er.ed people, who have proceeded from the Wii
favaees of the American continent, and to lf h,
have been led by your society, iro* the M
Hal' of barbarity, from the darkejtfa- I
zation, and rental improvements.
There can be nothing Biore extraordina- j gtJ
ry than that a European Bishop should have 1 t i l(
fo'fmall a (hare of information refpefting a pr ,
country, which has so forcibly excited the V.
attention of the whole world.
Should you fay, that it u not the fcvag-
e5 whom you intended to defenbe as hav- fi|
in- been in the darkejljla S e cf tgnoraice, we , a
have to a(k you, when it was, that the An
jrlo- Americans were in such a Itate . in
6 In the early date of this country, Great- fc
Britain produced a Locke, a.Newton, a
.Pope and others of great reputation in the
liteiary world, but there never was a day 1
from the firft emigration to this country h
from Europe, that the body of the people I n
on -our idand, possessed more light and in- m
formation, in proportion to their numbers
than were in the poffeflion of the cwilued
people of these states colleftively.
The firft settlers of our country were men £
of learning and pbilofophy, and were urged N
by a noble spirit of enterprize, to effeft i
r«reat and marvellous deeds. They were the ,
S e ft and most enlightened men of Europe.
It is true tbat their learning was rather fcho
•laftic ; and it is equally true, that there (
xrii no other kind of learning at that time ...
your illand. If you attend to the writings
of the fixtceuth and fever.teenth centuries,
YOU will find, that from those of tl,epedants
1, the throne, down to the beggarly author
in the turfed cot, there was nothing but lcho
laftic ftuff, arranged arid improved, to the
fapport of bigotry and fuperftit.on, in strong
derogation of philosophy and found reafon
'aSin or about the year 1720, a laudable
liberality prevailed iuyaur country, and fiom
that tinr- you may be conf.dered as having
been a liberal and enlightened people. |
The firft emigrants from England who
fettled in America, founded univeiTitles,
eftablifbcd colleges, and planted public
fthoels, and other modes of public educa
tion. In the Northern colonics the lands
iv-rc "-ranted 011 condition of fettling pub
lic teachers of religion in each town and of
providing for the support cf public fchoo.s.
Lch town was obliged by law to maintain
a fehoolmaftcr learned in the languages, to
- whom all the children were to be sent for
, t : ori From inrfe infiitutions advan
tiWirefuite'd equally to all thc people, and
1 arnir.2 was' more univerfaily, and mow
beneficially dominated ever was m
Creat-lhitaio- The advautagCß from vour
society, (save be-i to those,« tr.e fe..Sl!et ,
fpa.k to the light of the tun, or as a crop I
of the bucket to the ocean.- In faft the) j t jj n;s i t ; ie .
have formed r.o part of the education of v A- p r ,i[jeriy ;
merira ; they have never been realized, and (r anfmtlted
can never be acknowledged. It might be in. the St.t.
added, that your tniftionaries were general- t °' r J_ u ' 11 J
ly crppofed to that kind of education, and
that mode of thinking, which have railea 1( _ n was
Anieiica to be a great and independent 11a- g, n t [, e p r
tion. Their teacliing, as mere divines, may p ro perhan
have been salutary to the few who have in.'Utution,
heard them, but there were 110 other advan- ; Gtn. A]
r . ltnettaie«t
tages irom it. •. ■ d
Should you compare the prodigious of , ;
tlje prfrfent age in your country, with thoie .j t j,;
of America, you will find that we are not j n j|,. 10 n
■ indebted to* you for all that we po!Tefs. g ra f p n, f9
• Should you examine the three volumes abfejee
-1 written by Adams in defence of the nor and p
; American Conllitutions, where Vill Y uU
' find an Englilh writer, who has so compleat- ,- lK . h
•ly inveftigatcd all the forms and principles j A , )tn . s |
J of all the governments which have been (.• C andu<flit
the world ! Do you not know, that the 1 vo „ r t o c
■> arts have been encouraged in America, and , parent .1
3 as many extraordinary examples of genius ,on to fnn
e found here as in any part of the earth ?
>- Who invented the mariner's quadrant . , Vermon
d Who dire&td the lightening fioin t.ie an(J he (
clouds ? Where did the principal painters t j lt ;j ej
fs now in England, receive their birth and ed- which v
; • j I z<-al anil
*- ucation { w
■d The firft civilized inhabitants of this
13 country, purchased tke toil of the nat ' ve j ]fir j (1
of Indians ; they planted the tree_ of liberty A][
l8 > in it. They founded those institutions, nn( j
v e which have rendered good government and ; Mien's
if- equal laws the treasures of the nation. ; r eer in
he Here heroes are produced without a danger , have no
resulting from ambition ; here statesmen a-1 Pflre *_■
:a " rife, who have no views but the happiness ■ )tc|
'a- of the.people ; here justice is adminiltered
without a suspicion of br\bcr*jf. The Con
we ftitutions of government in this country,
au are the ftrongefl witnesses of the ability and j
>" 3 j infurmation of the people. Whilst Eu
icc ro p. is buried in systems, resulting from
jht conquests, or resting on privileges extetfed
by force from the claims of a conqueror, or P ■
"e his representative, the people of America, r
der i n fair open debate, in their civic, mdividu
and a l capacity, have voluntarily and peaceably
ife, delegated powers to be exercised over them
fen- selves , and under such checks as secure
ice, them against every effort of tyranny. 1 hete
« n » are founded in light, and naturally pro-
duce light, information, and fafety. ■
und Should you, niy Lord, be again called to »
the an accofional sermon, wherein a glance at . B
not t he charafter of America (hall become ne-
own efffary to your progress in duty, you may
ded, i a y a side every species of arrogance, and 111-
def- st ea d of faying, that you have left us an
itive enlightened people, you may, with truth
sicty and candour, inform your audience. That
1 the th* Americans, having ever ban 411 enlightened
irhite people, hctve by that means become so great, us to
>d is l enve YOU, notwithstanding all your exer
mean t j onß a goinft it ; and to exifl as a free, hap-
jton, I py, independent nation, in opp»fition to ah
Kr'™' AN AMERICAN. ~
iffton } -K/r^.
) fay, j Fr»tr the WESTERN STAR.
1 "T, , not
:op!e, 1 Democratic B.ogrephy. n
emi- Few individuals have been more theJ u *) e<a
Were of general cofcvei fation f. r sometime pift, thin 1,.
ntson I Uen. Ika Allen, of Vermont.—By hu late the
,n i I letter to his friend in Ftirbaven, it appear*, e d.
P. e , C I that the principal .oflicert in this,nation liavc
"8 tranfniitted fnch vouchers and in r ormati«n, at p r(
ra w.'il save that g*ntleman from the capital pnn-
nd to I ifhment which was expeited about the time that
Tl the I M'Lean was executed in Canada.
ell la- I Gen. Allen was born in S»liftury, in tonnec- wit
■V-ivii; I ticut, and removed not long before the late war no
I into Vermont, where he had a large flu<e in et- bu
I fe<£line the independence of that State trom the
,rdma ' Stste of New York His lot was to become thj
d have | t i, c ,hies agent in tlie lanil-offiee, he ihtrcliy
[ling a I procured Urge patents and grants to himlelf.
Ed the Vermoi.t regleded t. make reUitutlon to those De
I who were deprived of their honed cla'm' under th
r„„,„ Llie New-York title, and the people of Vermont Fi
g " obtained a quitclaim of all further title and ju- w ]
3 V ' ritdiaion, for thirty thousand dollars. Ihe
we laiifts and public money thus engroficd and ex
ie An- I ~e n ded, left Gen. Allen with the largelt ellate
J in Vermont, and some said the largcfl in New
t'b 1 attemptto build furnaces and mills, and te
!n thl make improvements on hi. estates, he became U ,
j involved in diht, firft in Queheck, and then in „
1 a da Y 1 New-York. He wa» pufbed in both p!ace» by
:ountry J , lis rre aitorj, and made inar.v efTart* to rescue
people I nimfelf by mortgaging his property. Laiuts he
and in- [ would not fell heeaufe they were ritiHg in value; q
umbers, 1 taxes were U vied upon them, but he found expe- K
:i; 7 -J dients not to alienate any. d
1 In this diftrels he embarked for Eoflano, have
I inz previously sent out a nephew, to negociate a {
ere men CI ® d , r . He procured a fm»H quantity ot goodi, j.
e urged I w hi c h arrived with his nephew at BoP.on j biu
to effeft j the young nTan tock them to bis own uie in
svere the reward for hT» fa-vices to his '.nele.—A iecond C
E ur one quantity a-ef-e/hipped to New-Voik, but want- ,t
itr fcho '"8 mci)eT 10 P ay tlic '
itr kno in Gen. Aliens behalf; \
lat there t y ie f e t'.le public debenture, and then at- (
t time ill ~L i .ed the merchandize for the debts due to
writings theml'elves. In this dilemma he retreated to
■enturies, ihe French Direelory—his party in Vermont
ie pedants wei-e ready for war with Canada, and wanted
r author arms ; these Gen„ Allen procured, with art l.e
---u "cT ry, tents, camp kettle., &c.&c. Ihe miUa.y
but fcho- £ tithfrß wt . re (hipped inio Botlon.by Mr. John
!, to the Ai Q rohlim Jhe General andoiie of the /lids
in strong c i e camp of Gov. Chittenden were in Lond-n
d reason- together. The latter wrote and printed upon
vellum piper, a:i Hillory of Vermort, in a ie
laudable ries of letterj to the Earl of Mon.r«is, a brane
and from of the G " him ii 11 '
, • attempts are made tif exculpate Gen. Alhn
as having from Tvca f ona ble defigrfs the government
p' e - of Greaißiitais. Mr. Graham also mentioned
and who Q cn . Allen as the brother of the la e Gen-A
liverfuies, than JlUn, whose proA tls and w ere
fd public id well known in the Sulci, Canada and hn
educa- gland, Gen. Ira Allen was fended wih th, k
.1 ill ii;furn ation of Mr. Graham, being well aw ue
the tanas N>ol ,ia du him nogord.
ling pub- ~( >m t|ine rcviou , ro the departure of ...et».
vn, and of Allen,he presented a petition to the Legiilature
ic schools. 0 f Vermont, fer certain lands rrferved tor pro
> maiotain 1 pjgjiing the gospel, for the utc ot a co.
mages, to whiih he was patron z.ng'n Bnrhngron, near
;£' fci> own dwelling, in thenvighhorntwdol Lake
' f , Cha.nvh.in. i J e was defeated in his w.^s,
'-9 S f in °: but hi movements en.Vd in a o! the
icoplc, and Id j t . : . btiorg ; nf , t |.e Kpncupal Church be
;,nd morj moer-cy. C .tnet's fpi-s anil agents had ipitad
rer was in I French p dities, infidelity and avarice co ...r .it
from your )IN clainis oi <Jij;ioii or juflice .0 e J1
Pari -fth- iv. to-if- .of animat
iv in L-.m .oil", who »'>t 4 ' ,U,U!V '- 1 the other ]
Gon. A 'e,v an.l Mr. G .l"-pvd to nave ob- tfr> The
tainrd the
1 'pi 1 Zlsitl" revolution
vT. ! .nf.nute,l: 1 the Br tiib mm Iter 1
in.the?i.te», wUich put th -f: concerned upon I the tenor
their | acknowlc
Great uiilrefs bad been riven to those who I changing
had icll'e l l in c-c-itain tov. n'hips in which Geo 1 p ru< J cn t '
Allen was inlerelted, Uecaufe lie neglefltd to re- I
the projifrty deviled to religious nles, into I e j.y |
proper hands, that religious nnd other important 1 ,
iiii'litutioiib rnijrht be obtained asearly as poflibie. I e
Gen, Allen ihns tngr..ff,-d large grants trom I polture O
i the slate* to hiaifelf, and the lands ot the church |> Ilv pre
but in ad to this he had in his p' fi-llion j quotiphis
! the property of the heirs oftwo of his br«thers. I to
1 ,MI this 'iuirn.-nle property i< ti < v involved I (( -p ranc
in al ooi't iMcxtricable diffu iilties, by h a great I ,
a Turn s, hy hii <Ufai>poi'>tmc»U3, and ">y his I t
able ce' Mils dJsn.'flM from all of ho- I phical.
r nor ar,.l proii:, and his property is j and the
t into other hands. I look for
Sure is ihi- short history of a Bi-mocr.at— I p ora t e it
and f'K-h > 'he bihory of nlary others, S,n. ( t h a t cc
' j Allen's leadire trait'is low cunning, a lecrct I
! o> hi- business, and an anful endea- .
i 1 votir to dr.! v othtrs'into his measures by ail ap- I capdc )
1 ' parent indifTersnce js to the issue, «r Jdilpol'.tl- I rianaer
s ! on to fnrtbtr the wtfti of hi- neighbour. J Spain,
> ' lie introduced himfelf to the late-ToCiop eletf of 1 t h e prti
j Vermont, who i" in L ondon. The College in I orf lers (
Vermont was a darling objetl with Gen. Alien, I jjjgpjj c
e and he therefore flattered Ui(hf>p Peters with I 'T'he
3 the idea of making lim Picfideriv—a meaiurr I
1- , which was not praiilicjble, ai that gvntlerna# s I
I 2eal and opinions were u"t a -ceptable Calvi- I then av
| 8 nifts Reifts or Derr.orr;»- J and arc
/e 1 The folicitcus public are now waiting to I w J t h tl
bfar further mrelii,'enc e from the p cne "|" I the abf
.. All humane reen shudder at the id-a of nal- I or j ers
5 ' ter, nnd many koneft m:n «'H r»i' ice i. Gen I •.
Allen's liberation puts an end to Ins rc '}' e 'j' ca " I .® r i
n. [ reer in Should theT'i'ench DireiHory j
er i have no opportunity to rec! irn their property, I were n
a . purchasers in Fr.glasd, or the merchants in I that al
p I Queberk, may obtain '.he arms, artillery, teats I
" e( j and kcitles. "• j The si
7 I
in " From an Engltjh J>aj>er. I j-gn-
TITR f' E M£MORT JLS O N | ceiv
■ u . FRErfC'H AFFAIRS. j
By the late Mr. Bu*r.f. I " I
Thefs; papers, which are this day given to I
C r public view, »re brought forward under the I J onlj
° r aufpicts of Drs. King and Lawrence, who 1 turn ,
jy' have raanifefled in the manner of their intro- j gettin
y" duftion, a most zealous refpeft to the maues j en abli
of their deceafcd friend. I cafey
' j The memorials are prefaced by a paper li n fm
"f C I entitled " Hints for a memorial to be de-1 ; n g t ]
livered by lord Gewer to M. Montmorin." I c harg
Sr °" In this paper, which was written m I 79'> Ihe fh;
j to Mr. Burke recommends molt strongly that j O ppo
at l ' u E° °^ lcc ' B our court I throv
3 terpof*d between Louis XVI. and hi* fedi-1 k„avi
" e tious fubjefts. This he conceited to be lf o K
m - a ,J r our duty under the general law of nations, J little
aud the spirit of our positive treatie*. I ford
1 i The firft memorial, written in'the end of I ged I
T A a , the fame year, has for its Undency to dif- I little
iene'd tingnifh the features and charafter of the I
French revolution from others of ancient I
xtr( . or moderri times. It marks tht track which J FC
haD- new P''' nf 'P^ s werf lo pursue in I
0 all l^e ' r combats the sup-position I
that tht revolution would fall by its own I
w weakness, by internal force, or by tlie dif- gon
1 ' credit ofits papqr money. This paper, as I dep.
Mr. Bu ke conceived at the time, "did jthe
not meet the ideas of ministers." I aBC |
The second memorial was written in arici
"than 1792, after the invasion of France, led bj JP 1
Is late the duke ofTirunfwick, had completely fail-1
peart, e d. Mr. Btlrke then saw a radical error mloi t
1 hivc not giving confidence and importance to the j '
" French -nobles; His convidion, as there feni
1 stated, was, that neither the infurre£lions 6f 1 ciei
16 ' the royaliftl within, nor a foreign force from I
onnec- without, could separately avail. There was api
te war no found kope in his judgment offuccelsj a\
:in ef- hut from a well combintH and cordial co- J
i,m the operation of both. He recommended on I ,
' e;o ? e this occkfion, that England should interpose
limfeir. a « protedrefs of the balance of power. But <lo;
0 those before this paper had been communicated to l oc
s under those for whose use it was intended, the 0 f
ermont French convention had pafled those decrees 180
andjvt- w hich were regarded a« ftriklng equally J a
■ ,' lhe against this country and Holland, our old
ally. The unofficial negociation which sol- Ai
n New- loved, ended, as is but too well known, gc
in declared hoftihties, and the British minu- I
ills, and ters, the editors of these papers fay, were ; s
became Under the necefiity of joinii>; the powers al
then in rea( jy ; n arm 3 •« on their own conditions."
lacea by third memorial, which was written
Hdshe in the year 1793. was composed in confe- a ,
n value- quence of an intimation from some of the fl
nd expe- king's misters that they proposed to issue a
declaration of the motives, objefts, and the T
nd.hav- e nd of the war. This was immediately as- c
ociate a ter tbe juke of York's retreat from Dun- 0
,t good>, k;rk Mn Burke objefls very ftrenuoufiy
ZL in to the time of ifliiing this declaration, as p
A second being that of calamity and defeat.—" No
,uv waut-<ithing,"he observed, " can contribute more 3
,t intn.ft- effe&ually to lower any sovereign in the pub- i
behalf; i; c e (limation, and to turn his defeats into I
then l( * disgraces, than to threaten in a moment of
t5 ff u !" impatience !—the second usual matter of ,
Vermont raanifeftoes is composed of promises to those ,
\ wanted who co-operate with our tk-figns. A time
th art Ue- of disaster on the part of the promifer, ieems ,
e military „' o t to add much to the dignity
r fl l- y° h " son or to the eftcft of his offers. One would
ft ! ,e '\ ldi hardly wifli to seduce any unhappy persons
" " to rive the last provecation to a merciless
Yfe- tyranny without very effeftual means of pro
, a branch testing them." ,
lat volume The wretched situation of France, under
en. Allen t he r eign of Hobefpicrre, Mr. Burke ad
avernment ro ; ts ,hat he/had not forefeen. He could
,!:e " tiort i not anticipate, such an idea as that of ar
'e'Swefe ™es impelled f ,nd adminiftnitions con iuded
a and 1-n- by the effe£>s of fear alone. In the conclu
wiih this fion of this memorial he emphatically pro
well aw ue u n s againlt that which he always considered
as 'the great fruitful source of every mifcar
ircnt f ," cn ' riao-e, the R reat leading miltake— that of
Sfc condufti.g the war-by precedent, as a com
a Ole e 'mon war against a common cn f .rqr the
,cton, near usual objefts" of ordinary to arm ? ,
..dofLake ai; d searching hiitory for precedents to be
bis wiOii-s, dtvlrfd f rom former revolutions, which
o! ' ' he ret. mhle this portent of cur tta-.es m not.i.ng
} Jr \ l ■ *"1 but the name !" , 1i • .■ 1
U Of these memorials, the lr.fl m pnrt.cular
'Uc Wnh Ik.- iduck cf Ike .ftllc *>>< l V'* t>f lhat tone
of animated dcciiion, winch di&mguifue.s, .
the other prodn&ions of this illuunous wri- mn)ti ovl i
t f r. ' They are in ftrift confiltency with his which are
other writings on the fubjeft of the French fides thofc,
revolution, however they may depart from troop^cmr
the tenor of his preceding publications. He ra * |0|
acknowledges hirafelf that he writes' m a
or<ier» for
changing fcenc, when a measure very [ an k 0 f
prudent"to-d?.y may be very improper to- he aW
, morrow." Of course hut a very small pan
I of the effufions even of this great mind pour- fircumft;ll
ed forth in 1793, has any application to the thcmj aIU
posture of affairs in 1797- , , tbeyarcg
In proof of this jiffert ion, we need only Uttor wlu
quotffhis description of France as it appear- »rchdu «
led to his view in the latter end of 1793 ef shine {
I " France (fays he) is out 01 ltielr : the e ; rcum ft K
I moral France is separated from the geogra- pclce .
phical. The matter of the bouse is expelled
1 and the tobbcrs are in possession. If we
I look for the corporate perfple eftifting as cor- <
I porate in the eye and intention of public law 6qc
J (that corporate people I mean, who are tree Corfu, \>
I to deliberate and decide, and who have a [hip* of
capacity to treat and conclude) they are in |h « 30c
- Flanders and Germany, in Switzerland j S<-™£
■ Spain, Italy, and England. There are all onc
f I the princes of the blood—there are all the j w ; t hhin
' J orders of the ftatc— there are all the parlia- ration. »
' I ments of the kingdom.
The ministers who took refuge under the
s doftrinesof Mr. Burke i" ?79*. who I
I then availed themselves of his kindlid zeal thc tit)e
I and ardent elpquenee, have Cnce negociated i eE ifl al ;,
0 I with the existing government of France, in u
J- the abfe'.ice of the princes of the blood, the j
" orders and the Parliament ; and had the P;^
I negociations proved fuccefsful* would |
■V th« firft to smile at the suggestion, that they tiiu-d <
jr, j were in the fraallcft degree invalidated by n.dCh.
in I that absence.
The following letter, written at Paris by
the late Dr. Benjamin Franklin, has been I f eatl w
I communicated by the-gentleman who re- 1 mcßt i,
ctived it : . o
| « April 22, 1784. h lcro< »
« I fend you herewith a bill for 10 louis . m ß to 1
to d'ors. Ido not pretend to give such a sum.
he J j on ly lend it to you. When you flwl re- lft ,
I>° turn to your country, you cannot fail of I„ e <v
f°- 1 jrettin? into some business that will in time j cempli
«« enable yon to pay all your debts In that k*s»
cafe when you meet with another honelt man
per I in similar distress, you must pay me by lend
de - ing this sum to him, enjoining him to dis
charge the debt by a like operation, when 1
91. he (hall be able, and (hall meet with another J
hat 1 opportunity, and I hope it may tkus go I
■n-1 through many hands before it meets with a j
edi-1 knave to flop its progress. This is a trick I The
be of mine for doing a deal of good with a j c 0
3ns, little money. I am not rich enough to as-
ford much in goud,works, and so am obli- |
dos I g e d to be cunningand make the molt 01 a I
dif- little." P'
'the|^—. 1 ■ « —' IT
hici foreign intelligence. I
ition PARISH Septemberl4.
own There are on« hundred and fifty deputies
dif- cone in consequence of the eleftions of 41
-, as departments being declared null ic6 of arn
' did I the council of fiv« hundred, and 44 <>f the due
ancients—3o of the young and 10 of the 1
n in I ancients are condemned to banijnment. the
dbv I This makes 190 members less in the legifia- in t
r fail- j live btidy, 136 of the five hundred, and 54 pel
■or in of the asicienta. . had
0 the At present we remark 255 deputies pre- gov
there fcnt of the iiv* hundred, and 138 of the an- 1 pro
>ns 6f I cients —Total 393. . 1 "? l
from There are then 167 deputies who do not pin
•e was appear at the sessions, doubtless because they to
•ccefs -have leave of absence, or ar« wdifpofed. ' al .
LONDON, September 8.
r,\ The following capital /hips of tlieU-ie art now
Wp „ buildine in the several dock yard, of this king- wa
• ® ut dom; Hibernia, no; Caledonia, 11a; Europe.
ted to ocean, Boyne, Dreadnought, 1 errera.re, each
1, the 0 f ng puns ; Princess Amelia 1 , 8o ; Foudroyant, P
lecreas I go; Augulla. 74; af, d Courageux, 74> I,e c I
■auallv I 4 " at king's yards.
UT old The following are at private dock yards •- l al
I r Snp<rb, Ajax, Milford, Northumberland, K.nt fl ,
ch tol- I Al j )| i| es> Conqueror, Renown, Spencer, Dra
inown, a(1 of ,- 4 puns
minif- j Temeraire, of 98 guns, in Chatham yai d
, were isjuft ready tolaunch. I
,ers al- A letter from the Ha S ue, dated Anguft i». tj
tions "
• " Paris, had a lone.conFcrencc with our commij- |ft
wrltt ? n tce for foreign affairs. The minillers of 1-ranse tc
1 conle * and Spain assisted at it- To guard ngiir.ft every
of surprise, our fleet now lies it anchor under the b
> issue a bitteries in the Gstt. When the late President
and the Tocv rei'gned his Presidency, he assured the
telv as- convention that the crews and the tro.ps «P w
n Dub board the fleet in the Texel were in excellent I
,(lv condition, and that there were few sick. among „
n . UOU - them- We expert, however, that the prrater {
tion, as if i,nt all the troops will fobn be di.em-
No- | u .ked, and sent into gariifon. ll '» f
ite more affirmed that admiral Winter has receded Ins
the pub- dirmiffior.whidif it is said, has'.been oceAfiored
•ats into by certain relolutions of the committee of ma- 1
ment of n <nrtcnJjn ] ate i y arrived in town, from ,
natter ol p hil^c , phia , who affirms, that zolhips of w»r ■
to tliofe f rom co to 28 gucs, arc bui'r'.ing for public f.r- (
A time v ist in. American ports ;' which 1- the very nrn
tr, seems £ (Tort of 'hat Republic iu a naval , j '
ne would ' a<lmira ' Wr H " Nc,r ". n •'*
f write with his left hand :itis a en, us fart,
r perfoni f e for fomc time pMl nifed with
mercileis , iartli ln cafe any Jc cident hap
isofpro- n to his right. .
' The Dutch admiral runs a great rilk of be:ng
ce, under denounced in the Hativian c«n,vet;tion.
urke ad- enemies who charge h. n w.th fading asleep in
j U tfceTexvl. fufpea that.be has an uf'erflandmg
** Tit with his Serene Highr.e's the P. ince of Orange,
tat 01 ar- _
on dueled POR.TSMOU 1 H, S pt. 6. "
if conclu- Yeficrday a court hiartial w»» he» on board 'he
cally pro- Resource. of -8 guns, on Darnel Keef-, a
:onfidercd .Mc'r.jinV to fc«»majtfiy'slhip B-.dJord, ot 745" •
If?*} that h: threw' an
that ot .j potmdWat, a»d-ftJ6ck hentelsant Biwcanor a
as a com- v :,. )e „ t tlow in the back part of the head, he w»,
J £y.r the ihertfcre found guilty, aud f.nte-.ced to be hang <
to arms l\ by the.neck ...til he was dead, and on board
ents to be the lords of the admiralty should think
."which tit to appoint-
in nothing BRUSSELS, Aug, jt.
The AuP.riin army of the Lower Rhine, com
particular manlir.d by general Mo c'-, U almotc «.n
---f hat tone I rt th.s moment. The whole O. this army
is put or. the most perfeft footirg c.f vr.r ; tori ca
valry and inuntry are indeed above their ccmple- » !
mait, owing to the great quantity of recruit* ,|.
which are perpetually incorporated with i'.. Be- f
fides those, there arrive frequently from th&Meme,
troop? coming from all the armies in Bohemia and
Aullria. Whatever may be the objefi of thef#
rr«pr rat ions, Gen, Hucht, on his part, has givtn
I order, for the formation of a camp on the right
l ank of the Rhine, and several days afterwards
he added to this order, th« following article
" Although the negotiations for peace are not yet
broken off the army ought not to lose fight of tl is
circumftancc,' that a numerous enemy n before
them, and that it is their duty to punilh them if
they are guilty of a breach of faith." The fame
letter which brings thffc particulars, adds, that the
archduke Charles, and general Bellgardi, are to
review and exercise the Imperial army of the Low
er » hine for a fortnight or three weeks. All these
circumstances do not augur well for,the friends ot
peace. '■
MILAN, Aug. I*.
The French squadron, which failed frem Too
lon, under the comma-d of rear admiral Brueys,
with 6000 men an board,is arrived at the island of >*
' I C.irlu, where it hasbeen joined by fix Venetian
I (hips of the line, and fix frigates, which likewise
1 hve 3000 land forces 011 board.
Several Fr nch engitieeri and officers of artillery
! arc on board this fleet. Buonaparte has likewifa
' sent one of his adjutants, who, It is faiij, carries <
; with him irflrufiions relative to an important ope
- ration, which is to be undertaken by this fleet.
e x PARIS, Sept. 2. I
j Thismo.nii-g an inalyfis of Baillcul's pamphlet
1 has been publilhed in the form of a placard, with
' the title, It Corfu leg'jtjlif bori la Conjlitution,The
lejjiilative body iut of the conlUtution. T hey
n aflju-c us that lie is now writing a sequel to that
e pat n ] hli't, and th«t a Corficm d'.-puty ii now pre
e paring another work of the fame nature. Both '
are expected to appear very shortly.
'® Two numbers have appeared of the journal en-
Y titled" Tie Cor.tirvator, by citiacn Garat, Diunou,
y and Clicnier. |
from th* Amii dti I*oif.
Goversment has (eized all the cff:As horses,
' carriages, &c. of Mcflvs. Lanelurs, whose high
:n feats we h*v< published. It appears that govern- 1
*- mtm i> now flowing the Kkicc we gave for the j
easy payment of tiii millions claiirt**J by these gen
tlemen ; that is to fay, that they we rcwoufiy go
|jß ing to make them gi»e their accounts.
Frtfv til Etlair.
*" Letter" from N «plcs announce, that the people
of ire cvcelfively difcontoited. They murmur and
Tie complain agttinft th* queen aod ber ministers. h<;
iat king is no langcr received with applause as formcr
an ly, and the revol¥ti«n appears very near.
,d- ■H'" 11 - J ■ ■■ ■■ I 1
l j£ By this clay's Mail.
go BOSTON, November 9. v
ti a
ick The (hip Martha, Adam Babcock, esq. >
1 * . commander, arrived here last night
yj from London, in 35 days paiTage->
f a to the politeness of capt. B. the
public are indebted for the early com
— munication of the followiug IMPOR-
P TANT and INTERESTING AD
VICES.
\
ities LONDON, September 25.
41 * ThU day about half after twelve at tooon,
5 of arrived the three Hamburgh mails that were
' the due.
th? Letters from Cologne and Frankfort of
t.— the 10th and nth of September, state, that
rifla- in the towns of Cologne, Bonn, Aix-la-Cha
ds4 pellt, Treves, &c. the revolutionary party
had obtained the ascendancy, seized th»
pre- I government, the treasury, and the archives,
e an- proclaimed the Cifthinane republic, and re-
I nounced their union with the German em
> not j pire. They had sent couriers to Pari?, and
they j to gen. Hoche, requesting that a provifion
d. ' jal dire&ory might be appointed for the new
I republic. '
Stocks rose on Saturday. Sosie. Bar
t now gains in tl* 3 per cents, were done at up.
kin S' wards of 50. The circumstance has been
urope ,' endeavoured to be accounted for by the pro
ov"n' P osed P lan for thc sale of the laad Ux ; but
, these a measure of that nature cannot be execut
ed speedily ; it would be impoflible for tb«
dslandholder* to find money fufficisnt to fini(h
■ K,nt such a purchase in a (h«rt period.
. t>r»* We believt the rife was occasioned by a
~ different cause. Ministers have resolved to
™ yl ' C make one effort more to prevent the neceffi
ufl 17. ty of another campaign. For this purpof#
yfrom I it has been determined that a meflenger
imiiiif • I (hould be dispatched to Paris, with an offer
Fran*e J renew the negociation on some new
] CV "J grounds, fpecified in the letter of which ha
tfidem was to be the bearer.
Ed the Accordingly, Mr. Vick, the messenger,
•ps oil was dispatched on Saturday, and failed from
tceHent I Dover yesterday morning at one o'clock,
amorist I; n t he prince at Wales paeket, capt. Sut-
P" ater ton, for Calais. " .
•I, T 1 Sucll a measure may raise the fpints of
ltd his some men ' but h does not °F« rate in our
Mfiored minds as bringing the hour of peace one
of ma- I moment nearer.
I It was reported in the city on Saturday,
n, from j . an embargo had been laid on in the
' j w "" j French ports. The rumour, however, wa*
,hl ' C fir* ' unfounded; for, by a Danirti packet which
sry nrn at Dover f rom Calais this morning
ion') at three o'clock with passengers, we leam,
y able to that not the smallest difficulty has occurred.
1 us fa&, the passage.
ing with jjy t his conveyance we have received the
mid hap- p ar i s journals up to Saturday last, the 13d
nf he'ni? inft. inciufive. . ' .
on Hid As none have been receivedfor some time,
asleep i't it is iinpoffible tolay the whole of their con}
rftandmg tents btfort our readers. The following ex
t Orange, trathcontainfc-hateverismoftinterefting.'The
proclamation the direflory 10 the French
nat'on, in particular, deserves lingular atten
hoardrke Jt {n anoounces a recommence
ment of hostilities between the republic and
' * the Emperor, as at no great diftsnce ; and,
threw an is singular, it appears from some of the
3uccanor a : ourna i ß ' t hat orders were sent to Buonaparte
to be in readiness to aft, at the fame tim.
don boafd that intimation was orde. Ed to be inade to
iruld think Lord Malmelbury to withdraw himielf.
There does not appear the fma'.leli hope
' of a new riiptur* between France and Aus
tria being avoided, unlets the Inlter fhaß i»-
fcrs: Santiy comply with the terms, proposed by
,l this'armv | fortacr for Andudieg the uegcciationt,
IPROCLAMATION
FOR RE-COMMENCING HOSTILITIES.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORY.
PROCLAMATION
Of the Executive DireSory tn the French Na
tion, to the end tfiat the French armies tnay
be complete and ready to march by the 15/6
of Vtndemaire next, 08. 6.
The 18th Fru£tidor [Sept. 4] imposed si
lence on the orators of London who were
stationed i*n Paris. After that very memo
rable day, the English ambassador pressed to
rxplajn himfelf in a prtfitivemanner as tathe
firft <i>jedt of his legation, fee off on return
for England. On her fide, Austria fuffers
herfelf to be direfted by the Cabinet of St.
James's, which labours inccffantly to diftraft
Europe and foment troubles on the Conti
nent,, ; The Emperor thwarts the wilh of
his states and that of his court: he refills the
peace of which his fubjeSs are in need, and
confirms himfelf exclusively to preparations
for war. His armaments apprize us of what
weourfe|ves have to do. If the generous
loyalty which urged us to fubferibe to the
articles of Leqben is abused ; if, speaking
conflantlV of peace, nothing is breathed
but war, the French nation, which merely
speaks of war, because it is desirous of peace
wuJ put itfelf in a condition to support
its dignity ; and the valour of its armies
mutt recover its advantages. It-is more ef
pccially fcffefitial fully to convince the enemy
that there is no longer in France but one
•and a sole part, but one tentiment, b;it one
interest, that of a sovereign nation,-which
isfcufible of its grcatnefs, and which wiflies
to prefervc its liberty—The Executive Di
rectory is fwaved by no other motive than
these. The law authorizes
lis to provide for the fafety of the (late.—
It is pleflfed to make you the judges of the
reasons which determine it to employ this
sacred right. Your enemies-who are not a
ble to rjfift your courage, have endeavour
ed to subdue you by stratagem. They de
ceived you by the (how of negoctatibn.- If
they had beenfincerely desirous of what they
appeartd to seek, peace would be now con
cluded. The Executive Drrc&ory hasten
ed to flop the progress of the French ar
mies. It gave itfelf up with sincerity to
the hope ps the good understanding which
dazzled its fight ; and enjoyed, in idea, the
means it was about to possess of causing li
berty to be beloved, and of procuring for
France as great a proportion of happinefe
in peace as (he had acquired of glory in war.
But after having obtained this interruption
in the progress ps our victories, what did
out enemies wi(h ? To gain time, to foment
among you intefline divisions, and to take
the advantage of what Would result from
them, to cause Frenchmen to massacre each
Cthcr, until they (hould be enabled to fall
oh the remnant of the population, to di
vide among themfelvcs the (hreds of a coun
try thus divided, and to blot out France
from the lift of nations. ' Republican good
faith could not have fufpe&ed this snare of
the policy of courts ; you mufi, however,
Jiare seen, citizens, whether this plan was
"not faithfu'ily followed up 5 the majority of
'yourpublic funftionarieseompofed the auxi
liary- army which fought in the bofotn of
France for your mod cruel enemies. v They
,'liad called hither swarms of those barbarous
emigrauts who are bent on tearing in pieces
the vitals of their country, and of those fa
ruatical priefls who are skilled in kindling up
*very where the murderous zeal of homicidal
piety. The national tribune no longer re
sounded unless with the voices of the depu
ties of Austria and England, calumniating
defenders, insulting your generals, em
ploying themselves in paralifing your gov
ernment, and reducing it gradually to the
abfolu'te nullity which corresponded so well
with th&r royal inftrudlions, and with the
views of their constituents. At' length the
veil is tore off ; —the partizans of the so-
Nrign Courts are no longer the orgaßS the
national will; the helm of the reptiblicris in
the hands of the republicans ; —and the
people of France have French Reprefenta
lives. Citizens, in these eircumftances,
•what course ought your magistrates to pur
sue ? A nimated by a sincere wish to give to I
Trance a peace worthy of her, that is to fay,
>a solid peace, agreeable to her interests, and
conformable- to her engagements, how are
they at this time to repulse the pretensions
and elude the fraud of the cabinet of Lon
don? How are they to put an end to the in
decisive tardiness of the cabinet of Vienna,
and to free Austria herfelf from English in
fluence, the only real obstacle to the peace
of Europe ? There is but one mode. Since
your enemies, in feigning to negociate, hold
themselves in an hostile state, their example
forces you again to take up arms, and ab>"'
folvcs you, by anticipation, from all the cala
mities which in their territories are about to
be the inevitable result of the rupture of the
truce. Ah ! if war be a feourge that ean
not be too much deteilcd.but the horrors of
which fall on those by whom it was provo
ked, if humanity revolts again ft those who
died blood, who plunder cities, and lay pro
vinces waste without a neceflity ; if the au
thor of an iniquitous war be responsible for
the death of the men who are killed, for the
deftruftion of the cottages which are burn
ed, forthelofsof commerce which ensues,
for the provisions whieh are deflroyed, for
the violence*, disorders, and crime, which
ire committed with arms in the hand ; if
those who feed on the horrors of war, enter
ed into without pretext and without reason,
are ferocious monsters, unworthy of the name
of men, not merely enemies of the countries
which they cause to be laid wafle, but ofvihe
whole human race :—you who have for fix
years been forced to fight for yonr indepen
dence ! yon, on whom certain perfidious
men endeavour to bellow the fatal gift of a
civil war! you, who, conquerors and tri
fcmphant, laid down your arms to propose
pnd hear the words of peace ! you will not J
have to dread the imprecations, the legiti- (
mate anathemas which nature and jullice ad
irtfs to your cnertiiev In returning. ?gaii/fl 1
Your will, to the blocr.ly contest from wlilc
1 .yon had drawn yourselves, you may prote
in the Face of the who!j world what yourir
tcntions have been, and call' on Heaven t
witncfs the juflice of the cause you are aboij
to defend. Thus, then, citizens, agai
take up your arms without ceasing to be dt
firous of peace. Your government perfi
veres in offering it on the conditions whic
appeared it to be meet and compatible.—
Perhaps t'he warlike appearance you are a
bout to resume, will fufHce to obtain a con
fertt to these conditions ; but if they fhouli
be refufed, you will maintain the honor an<
the laws of the republic. It is in the nam
of the nation, it-is to fulfil its will, finijcur
its rights, and to preserve its glory, that th
executive power their flandardsal
the.Coldiers of the country Who have with
drawn from then> on any cause whatever
The executive directory accordingly enjoin
its commissioners Rationed iu the depait
menu, to cause to be executed, without de
lay, and without reftridtion, the law 3 of
Frimaire and 4 Nivofe, of the fourth year
together with the resolutions of. 4 Ventofe
and the subsequent ones, and to cause at
the soldiers and requifitiens whatever, whe
are now at their homes, to join by the 15th
Vendemaire (Oft. 6.) —Frenchmen, it ii
necessary, that at this epoch your armies
(hould be complete, that they (honld be rea
dy to march, and that their awful and ter
rible afpe& fliould inflantly command that
glorious peace, which for fix months past
ought to have been the fruit of their tri
umphs. The executive diredlory rcfolves,
that the above proclamation (hall be printed,
solemnly published.and fixtd up all the com
munes of the republic by its commissioners
stationed at the central departmental admi
niflrations j and the war minifler shall take
all the Btceffary measures for its speedy exe
cution, of which he thai] give an accouat
every three dayi to the dire&ory.
(Signed)
REVEILLIERE LEPAUX,
t President.
Legasde, Sectctary General.
PARtS, September 23.
What we have announced relative to the
appointment of Geo. Hoche to the poll
of Generalissimo of the two armiei of the
Rhine is positive. An order to this effeft
ha* beeniffued from the War Department.
—Annales Politiques.
If, contrary to all appearances, fay the
letters from Milan, hostilities with the Em.
peror (hould be renewed, the Piedmontefe
troops will join the French army. This
point is decided. It is even repotted that
they will form a body of 15,000 men. Ve
nice will furnifhio.ooo, thfCifalpine repub
lic 20,000, and the army of Kellerman,
30,000, amounting to a reinforcement of
75,000 for the army of Italy, which will
be under the command of Maffena, Berna
dotte, &c.—lbid.
Letters from Bruflek ftatc, that Camil
le Jordan, and two others, had passed thro
Anvers. It was difeorcred too late who
they were, and that they intended to quit
the French territory.
There is the (Irongtft reason to believe,
that the courier dispatched by the Ejirefto
rp on the night of the 2d and 3d* comple
mentary day, Sept. 18 and 19, carried to
Buonaparte the orders to renew hostilities
with the Emperor. At tlye very moment
when the conrier fct off, a courier arrived
from Lisle with the intelligence that Lord
Malmefbury had quitted thai city, and had
set out for Londcn. His departure, which
so soon fuccecdcd the arrival of Treilhard
and Bonnier was the result of the firft con
versation with the new negociators.
" Have you power," said Treilhard to Lord
Malmefbury, " to restore to the French
Republic all her colonies."—" No"—
" Why then go heme and get them !"
September 26.
/dminijlration of General Police to the Edi
tor of the Annates Politiqucs.
" Reports are spread that the Deputies
sentenced to transportation have escaped.
This intelligence is falfe, and you are desir
ed to contradi£l it by the channel of your
paper. (Signed) SOTIN,
" Miniftcrof the General Police."
The Dire&ory held an extraordinary
meeting on the 22d inft. to which not even
the Misifters were admitted—its.objeft is
said to have been the necessary dispositions
for opening the campaign.
September 27.
The Commissary of the Execntive Pow
er the Municipal Admillration of Police,
writes al follows—" General Dutertre,
commander of the armed force, charged
with escorting to Rochfort the transported
Members of the 19th Fruftidor, arrived
here the firft complementary Day. He
wasarrefted two days afterwards by order
of the Government, five leagues from hence,
and set out the next morning under a strong
guard of gendarmes.—The reports concern
ing the troubles said to have taken' place at
Lyons have been contraaidled by a letter of
the Departmental Adminiilration of the
Rhone, Rating that no column of the army
of Italy has arrived in this city, and that the
column expefled will find uoobftae'e. The
Administrators add that Lyons, where pub
lic tranquility has not been troubled fqr one
instant by tht news of the salutary events of
the 18th, still continues calm, and that the
measures of public fafety ordered in conse
quence of that memorable day are rigorous
ly executed." ,
TO THE MINIS I fclt OF JUSTICE.
" Paris September 7.
"Citizen MirtiJler,
"The prrttmlfil Amfrinnj, and ll.eir de
fenders, have alway« maintained, that the vrf
fels belonging to the United Ft.ite« never make
a privftire of carrying with them fa He lifts o?'
their crews. The following is a proof of ihe
contrary . The (hip >'«ry, hound from nn Ame
rican port to London, was taken and brought
into Maotc by tie Fount of I'Oricnt, bn?«fc
the rT.uiltr roll produced hv the Captain'did ivt
i-oncfj pud with the nan and difcription of
the »vc»> who coirpnfco the civw. \\V hive
the hcuoui to tranfinit you » c> j>y of :fist ti£ ;
h I yc.u will observe, C' r « z er» Mimfter, that !t is ex
it atflythii fume frith the copy which the Cap
tain of the ilepofit-<J m the lutuij of the
u I'Jrit ime officers of the Fort from wKich Ue fail
ed, and that it is it every refpe.fl agreeihle to
the difpofit ions cf the pafipm t annexed to the
11 treaty oi This fbews that the Amtriuns
- are convinced of the iscdefity of fi : ; V ,!yj„.,
-. their.fclves with authenticated lifts'of Hie' Olios
j companies, and alio that they fill their clear
ances to the English ! f h>s jri/.eprove, the pro
priety of requiring'the muliei rollsito'bVtoroilui:.
etl, and of eompari.ig them with the uew,
' which is the only m :ins of drtefl.nv fraud..
" Hcatth anil refuel,
1 ' (Signed) 1
. Deduilx, df anta, Thomas, fc-rt. «f st. Rta
(if l«e» the Brothers De'lpaujt, the B others Bo
rn "•? Matoea. of fOnent."
j l-ift of the. Officers and Scairjeh on hoard the
, A'tirr os-Boston, biund ffopi Portfmjuth{New ,
in>) to ■
• John vhartcfton, MaflV
i Wilham Curtis, firft Mate, M\rW»-heaJ do.
. William Cbardtil,,fecond Matej ditto do.
Ilia: WaeMen, Seamaa, ciitto
Thomas Ireland, ditto Cbarlefton.
James Hoyt, ditto New York.
1 Geo (ft Johnften, ditto Marblehead.
William Culler, ditto ditto.
J •tin Hazard, ditto B.iftoa.
1 . MILAN, Be»t. 4.
General Buonaparte arrived ar Ud'tia on the
3d of September. The Congress is held at the t
house of the Marquis di Gallo : but nothing!,
• that liifclofes its progress is pe' tpitted to tranf- j
pire. TUI we know is, that at the firft confer- t
enee Buoraparte held this languige—•' I ap- f
priaeymi that in a few days all this oegociati
on must be brought to an end. The Frsnch
| Government iaanxiqas for Peace, tho<igh it be 5
comuhrely prepared toprefceute the w.ir; it is
well aware of the imiriehfe preparations made
by the Emperur for the continuation of hoftiii
ties, at which it has not as yet taken any um
brage, judging of the reifitude cf his Imperii!
Majtftv's intention by its own; bat a more F
protrafitd security on the part of the French r
Mepublic mijht fubjefl it to the iwiputafion of 1
imprudence ; a decisive flep must therefore be
t.Juo."
PARIS, September 15.
The Prince de Condie. hadjet off from V
Neufchatel to return to France. On the
iftand 2d instant, he croflid the Depart- t
ments of Doubt and the Upper Soane, and p
ion the 3d he was seen at Lyohs. He made
his journey without oppoiition, accompani
cd «nly by two men on horseback, as ferv- ■
auts or Aid-de-Camps. At the time the 0
1 courier set out, one of those men had tl
; been arrested, and they were in puriuit of v
the other.
September 17.
Fouville, read on change yeftcrday a let- n
ter, stating, that an insurgent army «f the n
South, was 60,000 strong; that they had b
killed 1000 Republicans, aod' forced Gen. p
Larne to capitulate.
The Theatres are ordered to be closed,
where pieces have been reprefeuted which %
appeared to favour Royalty; and the a&ors
arretted.
HAGUE, Aug. 22.
Several persons returned Reprefentatires,
to the Convention refufe to serve.
September 19.
The Conyentiqn has voted ao address to
the French begging not be condemned hasti
ly for not adopting the Conllitutian.
A new Commission is fofining a new con- °
I ftitution. • J c
A Treaty Offenfire and Defenfive with
j Spain, was this day ratified. The princi- "
j pie* are similar tp those of the French and tc
Spanish Treaty.
Septeinber 33.
A National Festival i» ordered, to cele- tc
brate the French events of Sept. 4. All ol
public officers are to be required to swear ni
• " Eternal Hatred again ft the Stadtholder- °'
fh:p, Aristocracy and Anarchy."
LONDON, S>pt. 6. fr
The Bey of Tunis, has officially declar
ed he - will not observe the arrangements
made with the United States in O&oberlaft
| But the Dey of Algiers has interfered, and c '
| it is hoped, he will alter his mind. 1 •
Sept. 8 ,
Thelaft propofitionofour Government to
France, was ta retain theC. of Good Hope, .
Trinadad and Ceylon. ,n
111
Sept, 10- c|
Wjth much concern we now fay, that ( j
Lord Malmefbury has returned to England ij.
without accomplifhiag the objeft of his .
million.
With refpeft to the causes which led im- . y
mediately to the ruptijre of the negociati«ns,
the only information we have been able to t j
obtain is, that on the arrival of the new
commiflioners, Treilhard and Bonniere at ,j
Lisle, they demanded of Lord Malmefbuty
a final and categorical answer to -the terms
which had some time before been presented ] )(
to him as the fine qua non of peace. His
Lordship's reply was, that in that
stage of the negocintion he was not autho- as
rized by his court to agree to the propoli-
tions of the Executive Dire&ary. The a)
commiflioners immediately obferred, that it g
was evident his Lordfltip was not veiled
with the ncceffary powers to treat ; and,
therefore, that his further reljdence at Lisle
would be dispensed with by the government
of France. This observation was followed G
by a peremptory order for his Lordship to
quit the territories <jf the republic in the
course of eight and forty hours. It is ad
ded, .that fotne infultinginStiiiations were at
the fame time thrown ojit by the commis
sioners against the British cabinet, upon the Sr
fubjedt of the late conspiracy in France.—
Such, we are informed, was the abrupt man
ner in which the negociatioa was brought
(o a final termination.
September 25.' ,
Mr. Vick, is fentbygovernment toFrance 1
to make one effort moTe for negocfation.
Odtober 2. *
Mr. has returned unfuccefsful, and
no other person has been sent.
BOSTON, November 9. "
Our London papers, from which the Vi
pjrtitles were extraded, arc the ti,
f %}
- Star of Sept. 25 and 30. The Count)
, of Oft. 2) contained nothing particular
• 1 y iutercfting. The importance of tin
; FRENCii WAR PROCLAMATION
1 claimed our firft attention, we haftenec
' to give it publicity, without fearchins;
. for further papers.
• , Capt. Henderfon, in the brig Eliza,
arrived at Salem from Bilboa, 47 days
confirms the news of the uew revolution
ary infurreftion in Paris ; and adds, thai
. the banished members were ordered foi
Havre de Grace, there to be embarked
for Madagascar, and landed at the mcr
-1 cy of the natives ; and that Buonaparte
had been invited to give his perforial at
tendance at Paris, during the insurrec
tion ; to which he declared he would,
but if should be at the head of a 100,000
men. _
Col. Marshall has certainly arrived in
Holland ; but we hear nothing of Mr.
Gerry.
The Courier of the 2d Oft., contra
| difts the information, under London
| head of Sept. 25, refpefting the over
tures made on the part of Great Britain
for a renewal of pacific negotiations.
The Three Per Cent Con were, Sept.
25, at 49 7-8 —Oft. 2. 50.
November 10.
Gen. Hochc is dead. It was fnppof
ed he was poisoned ; but no marks of
poison were discoverable on his beitfg o
pened. This is a report by the Martha.
The famous Jiouvet is dead.
The Freuch minister of justice, having
lately found an American veflel, which
brought in, furnifhed with a Roll
dT qui page J has declared it evidence that
the Americans are convinced of the pro
priety of being furnifixed with that pa-
I per, as pursuant to treaty*
By the annulling of the proceedings
of the eleftoral bodies, 143 of the new
third of the French councils, are depri
ved of their feats.
The Spanish ordered, June 14, that
neutral veflels brought in, whose cargoes j
were more than one half Spanish, fbould J
be tried by their tribunals. If less, by |
French, if taken by them, but not to be
fold, as real enemy's property.
PHILADELPHIA,
FRIDAY EVENIN3, NOVEMBER 17.
CONGRESS.
The House of Representatives met this
day pursuant to adjournment) but a quorum
of the Senate not being assembled, they ad
journed till Monday.
Mr. Langdon took hi» feat in the Senate
this day. four members are yet wanting
to make a quorum of that House.
Married last evening, by the Rev. Doc
tor Green, Mr. Kennedy Long, merchant,
of the city of Baltimore, to Miss Eliza Ken- j
nedy, daughter of Mr. Andrew Kennedy j
of this city.
The (hip Cleopatra, capt. Smith, failed j
from Lisbon for Philadelphia about 50 days !
lince ; in which are pafftngers a Consul
from the court of Spain, to relide at Balti
more ; and two Commiflioners to fettle the
claims of American merchants, for proper
ty taken at sea by the Spanish cruisers.
The Jacobin editors, who have juftified
the demolition of the freedom of the press
in France, and the proscription and banish
ment of one half of the legislature, give great
credit to the defttoyers of the constitution
that they did not murder their colleagues.
There is no doubt the usurpers would glad
ly have cut their throats had they dared.
But the arrest of them is enough to have to
juftify at onie. They may poison them on
the passage—or if they reach their destina
tion, a flow lingering and miserable death is
their inevitable fate. In any point of view
the atroeity of the deed is unparalleled but
by the infamy of juftifying it. In the worst
times, of Rome, from the molt abandoned of
her political gladiators, from the Gracchi,
from Catiline or from Clodius, such an aft
would haTe met no countenance. Anthony
arid Odtavius, though ever ranked among!!
the mod profligate and unprincipled Oaves to
ambition, did not, in expelling their associ
ate Lepidus, banilh him and his adherents
to the burning sands of Libya, or the fro
zen shores of the ultima Thule.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
AURIVED—NONE.
CLEARED,
Schr Tryal', Ropes, Guadaloupe
Orion, Pryor, An* Cayes
Sally, Day, Boston
Bojlon, Nov. 9.
ArrivedJbip Martha, Babcoek, London 35
days. The Eliza for Boston, in a luetic.
The Stafford of Portsmouth had arrived. Off,
25. lat. 42. long. 48. fpole fchr. Hannah,
Fletcher, from Amflerdam for Bojlon.
Brig Betsey, Norton, St. Übes.
Commerce, Atmore 6 dayt from hence for Af
rica, was fpske Sept. 23. at. 39, long. 61.
Capt. Ride r of the Alice of Bojlon, has arr'i- I
ved at Norfolk, after much i'l-ufsgt ly the Bri
lijb at the Male,
r The Outran Hill, is condemned at Cartta
. £'»•
J T ' ,e ! V> nth ™> P*fru from Bailee for
7 or I, do. at Hartc/cna.
I 1 n *}*??"*? J " r " c y< f rcm London for R-f
---1 fiend, tt fail mto,Richfort. "
5 r ■ ? h ,' f ° r, °" ar, f 'American Tndiaman
J a da/from England Sept. 23.
The Columbia, Latbrop.from Ncwyori far
' Hamburgh, u carried into Wa, L tcs.
' .. '''nut, Birrelt, from I.iyerjx,olfor Ncti:
' ' ,J into Bourdtaux.
, ■ The Maria, tf Boflcn, Rofs, is f en , iu!u
JDQyonne.
Tm Friends, Merritt, fr, m Virginia, it
• taken by a French privateer.
Alexandria, Nov. 1
arrived,
Sch'r Mary, Crozier, Guernsey.
Ship Fair Virginia London with dry
goods. 7
Schooner Charlotte Baltimore.
Capt. Crozier, spoke a schooner 2 day*
from Havre de Grace, tht captain of which
laid, that two (hips and two brigs from the
United Statei, bound to Hamburgh and
Amltrrdam, had been carried in there and
condemned, though possessed of the role d'
equi page.
Tn Ln. 26, 45 long. 67, j 7 , f pp k e t h e
ftip Harmony, from Charleston, bound to
Bremen, fifteeu days out—a!l well.
Lat. 36, 6, long. 6.7, 20, spoke the Ma
ry .rom Liverpool, bound to Philadelphia,
55 days out, nil well.
Captain C. informs that a few days ago
a (hip belonging to Wifcaffet, from Dub-
K bound to Charleiton, had put into
Hampton roads in great di(tref3, having loft
all her fails; and having been tajcen twice by
the French and retaken once by the Eng-
Sophia, O'Meara, from IMaderra, last
from 1 eneriffe, wine, &c. William Wilson.
Captain O'Meara informs, that two days
after leaving Madaira, was chafed by a pri
vateer, but the Sophia failing f a ft kept
confidcrabjy a-head. Unfortunately one
of the men fell overboard—captain O'Mea
ra immediately hove to, and launched hia
borit, but the man not knowing how to
wa! loft —This delay gave the priva-
J 6 " time to come U P—fired a gun and
hodted French colours, and then took Ipof
feifion of the Sophia, and ordered her for
St. Cruz. After a ftrift examination the
j was beared, and the captain permit
ted to enter his protest for damages.
meeting of the American
Philosophical Society will b« held at their
Hall, at 6 o'clock this evening.
Friday, 17 th Nov.
N O TI CE.
r TPHE guardians of the poor particularly reqaeft
X all persons indebted for poor taxes to pay
the fame to the CelleAors when called ob. The
increase of tht poor, owing to the late calamity,
the Board trufl, will induce the persons indebted,
to attend to this request.
By order of the Board,
PETER MIERCKEN, President.
Southwark, Nov. 17, <j 3t>
The Canal Lottery,
Will re-commence drawing, on Monday
the 20th inft.
ROBERT BROOKE,
~f.hccl Cl+rl,
Nor. ir. ♦ dt2t>.
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
No. ii« Walnut-fireet,
INFORMS those who wish to recur to th? only
means of L-ecominjj perf'eA in the French Lan
guage.that he has just opened his Library, con
fiding of upwards of 1150 volomes, the beit cal
culated to afford either ufeful inftrudtion, or plea
sure. The nonditions, together with a catalogue,
of the Library, miy be seen at every book-fellcr>
in town. *
w. b. All tranflatioiis from and into the French,
Englilh and Spanilh Language*, executed wkh ac
curac) and dispatch. eoim nov., 15.
Mordecai Lewis,
HAS FOR SALE,
At his Store, No. 25, Great Dock-street,
250 bales of Bengal Goods
Containing B&ftas
Colfit
Crorrahs
Moragugungces
Tookery •
Check and Stripes
Bandano Hatidkerchiefi
Mamoody
Calicoes
H hoxes Irifli Linens
I do. Diapers
i do Umbrellas
20 caoifters Java Sugar
78 bags black P« pper
Ido. East India Ginger
100 calks roil Brrmftone
, . 7c pipes Madeira Wine
57 calks Gin
A quantity of lheathiag Copper and Nafife
O&obir 3®. jawjw
For Sale by the Subscriber,
White Plattillat
Brown Hollindf
White Sheeting»
Dowlafiea
Silesia bordered Hluidkerchiefo
Striped
Bla k Ribbonj, No. 3 and 4
Gl»fs Tumblers, and Looking Glaflfes, ia
in cases, &c &c,
George Pennock.
November 6. codjw
Teas of superior quality.
8o chests fine Hyson
15 ch«lls Hyfon
i chests Imperiil
For Sale, cornet of Second and Piße.flreett. W
C.yHAIGHT. f
november frl. 3»wtf
All Ferfons who are indebted to
the edate of William Hevsham, fen. o; Phila
delphia, deceased, arc nequeiled to make fpeep'y
payment; and those who have any demandi a-.
gainst faitl estate, will plc-afe to f resent them, pro
perly attifted. to the fubferibers.
William Hejlham, "J
Robert Hexham, > Executari.
Francis Dwaies Sayre, _}
m':r-l:r 0. iuw 4wClocks and Watches,
Of everv defenption* opening fur Sale, by
EPMRAIM CI.ARK, : ,
At his New Shot, Comer of
MARKET and FRONT STREETS. '
ALSO — :
An extorsive and general aliortment if
Tools, Files, and Materials.
CONSISTING OF - '
( frtcr. Mftvement3 an-1 Clock Dials, day I
an-.t tl'irtv hours call brass, forged work aud Pin- 1
ion-, r. ;'s aKd Hands, Cat Gut, ferew and draw j
l'l-.itci, Turkey Stones, Pumice, Rvaitt] and Rot .
te'i : f 'jn-.Hprings and GUdss, Chains Keys, Seals 1
&c. Ac. Soring .and Handing Clocks.
'Q.5t. 17. ■ eotf
For Sa4e, by the Package,
For cafn, or good notes at sixty or ninety day*
viz.
t?Oio',t and Jaconet Muslins plain ]
ftr.pcs, and Checks I y\(fortfd in
rio. do. Tamboured j- k e3 .
do. Ladies handkerchiefs, & |
gentlemen's neck do. J
Jaconet chintz mi»flin for home and the YV eft
India market, Pullicote and linen hindktrchletj.
for do. <!o printed do.do. common purple and
chiniz Iha^'ls.
T-'ie aiiov* goods entitled to drawback on ex
portation. Also a few scotch cambricks and an
aQ'oi tnent of tnuflin bjthe piece.
The u- ide dftfte 'above being a consignment
■from t!ie manufailiire.s m Britain.
To he seen at William Bi Ackburn s
0*?"e, Nn. 64, South Second Street.
. N>v. ,6. _ "wtf
" FOR SALE,
By THff suuscßtßCss, No, it, Penn-ftreet,
Thi Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
T ohn Green, commander, from Bengal,
Coy fling of _
Baftas, of various qualities & prices
Coffaes Punjunv .Cloths
Sarails Guzz y do.
HirWhujns Charcorna Dorea
Blue Cloth Tanjlbs
Chistz and Calicort Mulmuls
Mamoodys Checks -
Mnharagonges Hhkn*
Ginghams " Mulmul do.
OliZacnas Bandanno«i
Gurrahs Siflet/oy
Piniafcoes Choppa Romals
Salgatchys Sooty do.
Gillie Kotrfah Per Cans of variouaeolouri
Moclc Puiieats
aoo torts SUGAR
96,000 lb. PEPPER.
Willings y Francis.
The Piece Goods .
Of the Ganges arc now open and expo/cd to Me i t
that commodious ilorc the north weft corner of
Market dnd Fourth l>reeti. nov >
L A N U I N U,
iFrom on hoard the Ihip Cleopatra, Satfiuel Newell,
commander, frem Lontlop»
~60 toos of the best elban 'Russia
HEMP
6orafk.of b6ttled BROWN STOUT.
Tor by the fuf>fcriberi, No. 21, Penn-ftreet.
. Willings b 5 Francis.
oa. 31. d
]aft arrived,
r»om Poi asd for Sale by the fubferl
. hers, No. at, Peim-itfeat,
6'* hbgfneads,*^
Kitietccs C p r i m e Coffee
523 barrels (
646 J I
Willings & Francis.
0«. iS.
' FOR SALE,
- , m~ tjrr.
Madeira Wine, firlt quality, in
pipe®
Madeira VVitae, New-York quality, in pipes
Lifhon WINII, in pipes
NUTMEGS 1 } ofthe l4tea !n
Spanish Wool, in Bales, fuitahle for Hatters.
Willings Francis,
Penn-ftreet, No. 11.
Nov. 1. wftstf
SILK.
ANY person having raw Silk of American or
European produce, may hear ©fr a pUr
chaser who will givq a liberal price for the fame.
Application to be made at the store of Robert
Lewis, j f . No. 70, Pine Street wharf, any
time before the nth of January next.
Nov. io«
' From Marseilles.
THE CARGO
Ofthe Swedilh barque GnflaTtis Ado!phus,from
Marseilles, of the following articles,
is difchjrgiiig at Mr. Latimer'a wharf, and for
sale by the fubferibers
BRANDY,, well flavored, of i, 3 & 4th proof
Claret, in hoglheads
Pitto, in cases
Frontigniac Wine, in cases as jo bottles
Olive Oil, of a superior quality, in balkets of 6
and, ib bottles
Capers
Olives
Almonds
Dry Vcrdigreafe
Writing Paper
Umbrellas (Silk) of 18, 30 and 32 inche«
Taffeties
Long and short white Kid Gloves far Women
Silk Stockings
Handkerchiefs, in imitation of Madrafi
Artificial Flowers and Garlands
Ostrich Feathers
Ribbons
Perfumery
Scented Hair-Powder and Pomatum
Manna io forts*
Cream Tartar.
BENJAMIN MORGAN &
ROBERT ANDREWS.
September 17. fo| f
"School Books and Stationary.
W. YOUN G,
No. ?1, Second-Oreet, corner ef Chefnut-ftreet,
HAS now ready for sale, a very large aliort
ment of Engtifb, French, Latin and Gresi
SCHOOL BOOKS. Also, fach elementary books
or Science, as aye generally read in the academies
and colleges throughout tha United States.
LATELY PUBLISH FD,
Sheridan's Di&ionary, the ikth edition, in one
large vol. 8 vo price 3 dols.
Ditto, large unio prica I dol 75 «ts.
Ditto, common, price I dol. JO cts.
All forts of drawing, packing, printing, and
writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards, Paftefto irds,
sheathing and Hotting Papers; printed Blanks,
blank Books, Wat, Wafers and other articles, ef
the be.t quality, ul'ed in the counting house, or
Catalogues of a mifcallaneous colleilion of
BOO'vS, with tke price of each affixed, to be had
fcy inquiring as abov«. Oa. i^-3aw6w
Law books,
Latest London and Dublin Editions.
11. & P. RICE, Eookfcllers, ,
No. i6,south Second, and No. 50, Market ftrcet, j
HAVE jult received by the lite arrivals Ir jm y
Lonrion and Dublin, theii iprice imports- 1
tion, confuting of a variety of the latsfl and nvoft i;
approved law Books, whic'a added to t'lofc alrea- J]
dy on hand, formstbfcnioft extenfivi colledlkm ev- jj
er offeredfor f*'e in this country, They thcitfoi* j j.:
beg leave to notice, that from the nature of their j
connefilicnsin Dublin, thry are enabled to felllrilh £
editions (as they have hitherto done) at the very £
lowest prices. The following are among thflatelt a
publications. _ F
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, 1 f
Peake's Cases at Nisi Pritis ; Ridgs*vay's Report* (-
in the lime of Lord Hardwieku ; FLoyer's Procters ;
Pra&ice in the Ecclesiastical Courts ; Barton's y
l'rtatife on a Suit in Equity ; Tidd's Praiftice of
the Court of Itiruc's Bench in Personal Adtions, 1
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
on Uses ; modern Reports, I* vols. London edi- . T
tion. 1
H. and P. Rice expefl ta receive by tl*: firft ar- |
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete ot
Purnford and East's Reports, the 2d patt of Gil
bert's Law of Evident© by Loft, anda number of 1
new publications.
June 16.
"The History of PennlyTvania,
By ROBERT PROUD,
IS no>v in the press, anil will he published,
with all convenient expedition, by Zt-CH A
RIAII I'oulson, jun. No. 80, Chci'nut-ftreet,
i'lirltidelphia, where fubferiptions will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed' until the
work it ready for the fubferibers.
July 18. ' lawtf
THIS ETAY WAS PU BUSHED,
j And soT Ole try THOMAS DOBSON, at the
Stone House, No. 41, south Second flreet,
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED.
Cenfifting of a variety of MifeeHancous Pieces for
the itiftru&ion and amusement of YOUNG PER
SONS—SixVolumeihandfrirtuly printed and bomnd
up is two volumes, price Two Dollars.
The variety and Mcellence of these pieces we
such, that the book needs only lo be known to be
univcrfally elteeitied ohe of the moll valuibU pub
lications th t can be put iiit# the kands of young
parsons.
" Delightful talk to rear the tender thought,
Te teach the young idea how to (hoot, .
To pour the frefli idfirudlion o'er the mind,
To breathe th', enlivening fpirit,and to Ix
The generous purpose in the glowing bread."
Tuomsok.
Augud 14. mwf4w
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS DOBSON, at the Stone Hcrufe,
No. 41, fauth Second Urcet,
Letters and Conversations,
Between several Young Ladies, on improving and in
tereftitig Tubjeftß.
TMTlflated from the D«tch of Madame it Camion
with alterations and improvement*,
Printed onfine paper, andnratly ituml,
Price one iMar.
AMIDST the tide of modern Romances, paulftng
talel of retraerdinary dittrefs, or of deljierate or
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," and
wl»i«Ji it urribll'Wftft' the honor of yoang ladies *>
be of, "tlfislittle bo«k corfias forward »o so
licit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, not m
eceding the bounds of real life, the proper, b ««ulc
elegant and natural dignity and importance of the Femak
ebaraAer ii exhibited in an intrrelling point of view,
andprefentsrxxmplei of real and attainable exeel-
Uaae.
The publißier was fomuch pleafcd with the pertr
f»l, th*t he was pcrfuaded he should do a plealpg
f«v1»«to thi community "by feuding it «» o tirca
larwa. Aiguft 14 —mw4w
Ail laying Duties on Stamped Vellum
Parchment and Paper.
A FEW copies of the above aft may be had a)
he Office of the Gazette of the United States, Na.
119, Chaftiut-Areer. July 19.
The Partnership,
UNDER the'firm of FREIVIAN te" Company,
is dissolved by mutual consent. All persons
having any demands against the said House are de
sired to render the feme to T. B. Freeman ; and
those indebted to the House are desired to make pay
ment to him—By whom baCnefs will in future be
carried on,at hisStere, Mo. 39, South Front-street.
Aumjl ?. eod4w
Richard and James Potter
HAVF. removed their Counting House to No.
45, South Fifth-ftreet.
August X. W&f6t
LancaHer, Harrijburgb Garli/le,
Sbippenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
THE public are requefltd to take notice, that
the partnership whieh has far some <m« fnli
flftcd betweow Mathias Slough of Lancaster, abd
William Seer, is now difTolved: bst, not as M.
Slough infinaatesto the public without jnft canfe ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fnh
jefl/rom M. Slough to W. Seer, dated the »9ti
December last. a recital of which is not now deem
ed neceflary. Any gentleman who wiihes to be
more cirenflaftantiaily infarmud of the merfcs
this business, by applying to W. Geer may have
the persrfal of M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfectly juftifiable in attaching him
felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
public were pl»afed to confer on the firft effort in
this business, William Geer, in conjun&ion with
Meflrs. Reily, Weed and Wi'.mer, is determittad
to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention auddifpatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can poflibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenanee to
render the passage fefe and commodious, inform
those wnu wish to patronize and encourage' the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George Weed's, the sign of the White ,Horf«,
Market f Street, Philadelphia, on ersry Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, na/rifburg,
Carlisle and Shippenfburg. The fare as hitherto
established.
For the further accommedation ol the public,
' a Stage will flart every Wednesday from the houffc
of Bafnucl Rider, in Harrilburg, arrive at Snn
bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
1 and -return from thence and arrive at Harriiburg
' every Saturday, so that paflengers dedined for
Laneatler or Philadelphia, may proceed on MOll
- GEER.
I.anca!ler, Jan. 17, 1797-
N. B. This Line of Stages ftarta from the
lioule of William Ferrec, in Lancaster, on every
Tuelday and Saturday morning.at 6 o'slo.k, pro
ceeding to the westward; and lrom the houfu of
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifhurg every Wednes
day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns
from thence on every Thursday : performing the
fame routine daily as in its tour ireni Philadel
phia. *> wf
Thomas Herman Lt«rrr.a, '
North I'iuh street, corner of North alley, No. 34,
HAS FOR SALE, JJ,
I^XCELt.Er: Tred Eonrdeaux Wine incafesasd
-J boxci, (j x y Ca rs old
Whitr Graves Wine in cailcs
r>iklcnburj?s El
RuHia Sail Cloths m '
Ravens Duck a:1
■Cas Linen ,
Hessians ' R ;
Diaper and Tabic Cloth Vl
Empty hags
Csramdn German Clokh
An afTortmentof black coloured Ribbons
Fine German I.aces
About twelve tons Kuffia clean Hemp
Clover Seed <j •
Italian Soap, in fmallbores, for family ufs
Window GUl's Aus; 19 —law
~tenT£iffe WINE. 't
L ANbING at Walmtt-flreet 'wharf, TENEa tr
IMF IE WINE, of en!cell»Bt (juality, in pipes an^
half pipes, for file by JAM-ES YARD. f u
o<9. to. »«8t go
Will be Landed, °] o
From on board the (hip A dive, Capt.Elair,from m
Hambu»gh, Vt
39 bales white Ruflia clean Hemp m
1 cailts Clover Seed /
For Sale by v
Thomas Herman Leuffer, p.
North Fifth fhrcet, No. 34. r
Tune 26.
TO BE SOLD, »
And immediate pojfejfion given, '■
ACunvetrient well fitulked Brick Tenement, "
with a cook house and other om hoafes,fitu- /
ated is a pleasant part of the berough of Wiljning- "
tan, in the State of Delaware—The lpt of gl"oaud '
has forty feet froat an Weft-dreet, and extends i
through tl»e square to Pallurt.-ftreet, on which is '•
ereSed a liable aud tarriage hoofc. '
ALLEN M'LANE.
Wilmington, Aug. 30. '
Imported in the Jhip Pigou, ,
And for sale by John Morton, No. Il(, South >
Front-fireet, <
Hvfon '
Hyson Skm 17 a c '
YaOf.gHyfonr*' CAa '
Imperjal J '
April 20. eotf
F«r l'ale or to be let on ground- '
Tent,
\ncduable Let of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-eiftcorner of Wal
nut aid Fifth ttreets, frohtiiig the State-
House ftjuare. "Tlfta Ift is fifty-one feet front
on Waluat. street, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth ftreet 1 ; there a*e at
present two small two story brick h6Uf«», and a
number of fjnaTl tenements thereon.
At/i, fir Sale,
'IVo three story Brick Houfe<
. With eoflvenk-nt fibres, wharf, fcc.'fituate ••
Watfcr'flreet, between Mulherry and Saffatrss
streets, containing in front on' Water street lii
ty-*fobr frtt, and continuing that breadth east
ward nirie:y-*five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houfet
ave the convenience of a public alUy adjoining
on the north fide, and are a very desirable situa
tion for a merchant, flour faflor,or others who
may have oCtafion for storage of goods. I his
• property will be fold on very real«n»ble tSnms 1
, forcofh. For further information apply Co the
. printtr.
July -3%. m&« tf
TO BE SOLD,
And pojjffion given imnteduitclyj
A LARGE two llorf brtck Houfe,handfomely
Gtuated in Piinceton. Thareare four rooms
and a large infrj on euh floor, and five rboms in
the garret, a range of back buildings jl feet in
length, and a piazza of 57' feet, There iA a pnmp
m the yard, an excelleut kitchen garden, at the
farther end of which are a carnage house and two
(tables, one of which is new, 44 feet long, with
flails ill the two stables for 17 horses. The heaW
thiaefs and pleasantness ot its situation, and the
I number ef genteel and agreeable families in and
n*ar the town, render it a durable retreeat for a
I gentleman from the city. Thecotnmodioufnefs of
the house, its central polition, and the lasgenafs of
: *he (tables,mak»it,every way fultahlefor a tavera,for
which it has always been confiderd as a capital
(land. Icqtlire on the premises, of
ISAAC SNOWDEN.
Princeton, Ang. 15. —diwaa-wtf
City of Waihington.
SCHEME
Of th« Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnißcent'lwtlling-hoUfe ao,ooodollars,
1 3t calh 30,000, art .50,00*
1 ditto ij.oao & cast 15,009 40,00 a
J 1 ditt4 15,000 & cast 15,000 30,000
'• 1 ditto ia,ooo & cafti 10,000 »0,000
; 1 ditto 5,000 Ac cash 5,000 io,ooo
1 ditto 5,000 & caOi 5,000 ao,doo
■' 1 cadi prize of ro,ooo
1 da. 5,000 each,are • 10,000
r 10 do. - * to,ooc
IS do. foo - • 18,000
00 do. *OO - * iojW
ajo d». S -3 " " 10,000
400 do. ®5 " ' 10,000
e 1,000 do. so - »0,000
15,000 do. 10 - rj»,oo<>
e 16,739 Prices.
a 33,361 Wanks.
d 50,»oo Tickets, Jt Eight Boll*», 400,000
" N. B. Tofavourthofcwho may take a quan
tity of Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollcrs will be
d the last dratvn ticket, and the the tAST
o but on* :
n And approyednotes, fecuaing payment in cither
c money or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
t be received for any number not less than 30 tick
■> ets.
y This Lottery will afford an el«gant specimen ef
[> the private buildings to be crtiled in the City of
0 Wafhingron—Two beautiful designs are already
(el(<sted "lor the entire fronts on two of the public
: » squares; from these drawings-it ispropofed toereS
"t twocentreand r ourcornerbHildings as foonaspoA
1- frble after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
r, when complete, te the fortunate adventurers, in
g the manner dafcribed in the fcheniL for the Hotel
r Lottery. A nett deduaion »f five per cent, will
1- be made to defray the necessary expenses of print
ing, &c. and th L - surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for she National Umverlity, to
be erected within the city of V" alhington.
t The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the
y Bri2es, are held by the President and two Diretfl
ors of the Bank of Columbia, an<".lre valuedjat
>f more than haif the amount 01 the lottery,
i- SAMUEL IiI.ODGET.
1 - .§, Tickets may be had at the Bank of Colr.m
>s Ida ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Feter
e Oilman, Boilon : of Joht" Richmond :
t- and of Richard W^l Coot er ; Ferry.
IBWf
FOR SALE, f.
By BENJAMIN CLARK, nj£
Jin. 55, the corner of Chefnut and Front ftr'eets, o p,
A large quantity of Clocks and ti»a
Watch?*. Also, a general afTbrtmerrt ol Tools,
Eiles and Materials, coafilling of Clock Move- c
relents, dight day and thirty hour bral's pinions cv
and forge woffc \ -Be'.U, clock aad watch. Dials, "I
Hands, GlafTcs, Punice Stone, Emery, c
Uottcn Stone, Cat Gut; bench, oa«4 and tail
Vice*; Tuftis, Pliei*#,Ch'.ins,Seals,Keys, &c. &c.
Apprentices Wanted. '
novembei* 3. fflctutf 1
• , -
The Philadelphia > Aifwn, and 1 uzkerton
. MAIL STAG E. A
proprietors big {eetve to inform the public { that si
X. they have cjlabljbed a Stage between Philadelphia, Bt
Atjion, Batfto, Hamptonj Speedwell, andAXirttba Fur
nace y JVailing River Jlit ting mill, and the town <f 'Tuck
erton, in New-ferfey, to go once a weei, at: J areprovi
, with good horses, a comfortable carriage, and a care
ful driver, for the conveyance of the pi ail ,passenger s, aitd
goods. The will fiart every Thursday, at IO
u clock, A. M. jrorn Mr. Daniel Cooper s Ferry, and
lodgo that night at Joel Bodire*f, at Longacoming ; and I
on cn Friday, at 6 o*clock, P. As., arrive at Gtich E
vans' s, ikieeper, in Tuekerton, dif ant from the city 54
miles, (from tba Atlantic 6, and from tb: Eaf. Grt.vf.ng
Plains 7 miles) are good aezommodationi for tra
vel lets, and where are commodious andfafe pajfjgf boats
provided to convey passengers to Capt. William Ifr or
rington x s house, on Tucker's JJland, adjoin inrng the At
lantic, ivhere are good aeeowmoaations, and a convenient
place to Lathe ; the sportsman zvhorvijbss to regale himfelf
■with foxttling'undfijbing, may at this place be highly gra
tified, there L'iitgviaim off every season of the jear foul
andfjh in abundance^ — The Stage on its return, farts
from the aforefaid C, divans's in Tuckerton, every Tuttf
day, at 6 o'clock, A. M.breskfafs at John Bodiue" s, at
IViading River lodge that night at Longacotning,
and at I 0 slock, P, M. on Wednesday, arrive at the ft
aforefaid Cooper's Firry. It is presumed that no route of
an equal diflanne tvill be less expenftve, or furnifb the tra
VdHer with a greater variety of amusement, as he will
not only have a pUafant fail to the atlantic from TtioJ.tr- J
ton, but have the curiosity of feeing on the road thither a
number of capital furnaces and forges, and one Jlitiing
mill, in complete order, and at work ; gentlemen, too, wlo I
are nuners, cr fadiors, of any of the aforefaid iron -works,
are folieited to encourage and Jvpport this sage (by ipbub I
they can be so rvcll accommodatedJ the continuance of wbieb [
•will much depend on their aid. The rates of passengers p
and baggage are as follows : For a passenger from the
aforefaid Daniel Cooper s,Ferry to Tuikerton, including K
14 lb. of baggage, Two Dollars ; for way passengers
per mile, Four Cents— 150 lb. of baggage equal to a pas
fencer. P oft age of letters, nevfpapers y ig'c. will be c
lagreeably to-law. ,
N. B. The mail croffcsfrom the Old JFcrry.
THOMAS IVARDLE & Co. 1
Tuckerion, Stpt. 08. J«-Zawf
~ThT NorfollTM aiIST AG E. ~
THIS Stage starts from the GEOR4SS Ttvcrn,
at the corner «i Second and Arcl) Street*, in
Philadelphia, evel J Tin/Jay, Thurfity, and Sjtur
jay, at } o'clock, in the trorning ; ari - ire« atT>o- j
"ver thefirft day, at Snowhill the fucond day. at ,
Northampton Coort^Houfe the third dey, and oa
tiirmoraing ofthefourtWday the pafitiigcis (Vad
1 a Cafe and comfortable packet to convey themao .
1 Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton feirjr, 1
ercry TVfd>y, ThurMay and Saturday, and the
; 9tajc ftaTtE fr«m-this fenry for Phikdelphii, every ,
• Monday, Wedtiefday-and Friday }{wt»u[f at Jhow
: Hill the firft Bight, at Dover the id night, a«d ar
r!ve» in Philadelphia in the ev-usin j ef the third
> day. v
! The dittance on this rotrte, between 'Philadelphia
j and Norfolk, it to miles Icfs thaa on any ftige route
; between ihofe placet. i
Too Qkoch cannot be said in favor of the road;
which is most. excellent indeed. The proprietors
willingly engage to return the fare to any
palTeugcr, who, after haviagperformed this route,
will fay that he ever travelled in a ftagu for the fame
distance, so good a road in America.
Anptift h. dim.eotf.
i Erikine's View of the \Var.
3
I JUST PUBLISHED,
, Dy ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
a No. 40 South Second street,
k [Price it Cetil*J
f A Vien/of the Causes and Gonftquen
» ees of the present War with France.
if By the lles»rable Thomas Buskins.
if May 15 $
« S TATE TRIALS.
Sold b W.Young, Bookfellct, Nt>. j»,So«lh *«-
cond-ftreet,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
CONtaining the impeachment, trial, and
al of FfancisHopkinfon. Jaiige of the Court of
Vdmiralty, and John Nicholfon, Comptroller «cn
eral—ln one largs 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, j
dollars.
W. Youkg has for fale< a general affortißeut qf
Bocks. Also, Stationary, retail and by (he p«li
'» cgc, well afiorted.and entitled to th« drawback if
)# ax ported. July y—'
'• ~ For Sale,
)0
jo That well known plate, called VjiNDeamtr's
jo hut,
30 A-v N Ncfhamiay cr««k, 18 mjles from Phila-
K> V-/ ladelpbia, on the New York poll road,
,1, containing 74 acres and 94 peruhw. Upon the
,c premifet are a large two liory ftotie houlje occu
jo pied as a tvern, and a good one (lory flone Icit
chert, a large frame liable with a gosd tWfiiiqg
,0 floor, and some out buildings—also a well of
jo good water, and an excellent ice House. On
10 tli is place is amo ft elegant situation fora gentle
-5,, man's feat.commantliog a view of the
iny to its junilion with rhaDelawaac, and theime
acrofsto the Jersey (hore. h has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the Uridge.
_ Fpr terms apply to the B»Wcriber,
J0 MORMCAI LEWIS.
_ - 3»Jv*tf.
be COLUMBIA HOUSE
ST Boarding School for young Ladies.
et TV/f GliOOMfllilDOE with much p'leaf
iil JVI are and rtfpetf, returns her f»f>cere ac
k- knowledgemrnt for the liberal encouragement
(he has received during four years refidente in
ef Philadelphia ; and allures her friends and the
of public, so far from intending to decline her
dy school, she has made afuperior arrangemsnt £or
lit the more convenient accommodation of her
febolars. —Every branch of ufefiii and polite
education is particularly attended to l>y Mrs.
Groombridge and m'afters excellinj in their
,B refpeifliveprofeSions.
tcl Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
111 June ,th, 1797- s lwfrf
u : Thefnuition is perfeflly healtlty ; andmaoe
0 more agreeable by an exter.liva garden and lot
of grt und adjoining the houte.
z ' Publi/hed,
Et Aiyl to be had cf McffrS. Dobfon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal Bcokfcllcrs in the
city,price one dollar, twmty-tivc cents,in boards,
n- Iscw Views of the Origin of the
i" Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, m. d.
so.
Philadelphia,' 03. 13.
I'HE fuWcribtrs inform their frit,til's :mu'cufto
mers in town and country,that their (lores are now ,
open in the city, !>nd others are daily opening, and
that from the present appearance ef the prevailing
disorder have reason to hope, their friends may '
shortly come to the city with perfect faft ty. By
several late an iva!s, numbers have received frdh
supplies »f GOODS 1 .
Robert Smith & Co. P. fV. Gallaudet tff Co.
John Da-vis IIZ Co. Sitgrea-ves 15 French,
Neill iy Smith, George Dob/on,
Wiltherger and Smith, Thomas Ryerfqn,
Alex Jhjhr.iland Co. T. R. Hardenherg.
Jacob Sptrry and Co. "John Smith and Co*
Oiuen iff Jona. Jenes, Thomas Orr,
Krppeh & '/.aritzitto-r, William Barker i'J Co.
Adam Zanfz ngtr, Thomas Armat tS" Son.
John Fries, J. Miller, jun. and C».
Benjamin 13J. Jibvfoa.
Olfl- 14
POYNTELL's
Paper Hangings Manufactory,
No. 70, Chefnut-ftreet,
IVberc be has for Salty
AVERY extensive stock, of every colour, ami
of the moii approved patterns, luitable for
every part of a houle, with great variety o£ bor
ders to suit.
—ALSO —
A handfooie aflbrtment of the most fafhionaMe
Silver Grounds London and Paris Papers, and
very left p.'ain Green and plain Blue,
With Pannel Papers and a rich variety ol Borders.
November i. eo6t
Young Hyson Tea.
49 chests of a superior quality—-Also,
100 do. of Hyson,
j Imported in the WoodropSims, and forfale by
! the fiiWcriber, corner of Second and Pine
I street.
C. Haight.
j november 6. cff»tf
I Imported inthefhipMANCHSSTER,).
Benjamin Shewell, Mafttr,
j From Bourdeaux, and for fa'e by the ftibl'criber,
No. H Walnut Street.
: Bonrdeaux Brandy
j Irifli market claret in tafe# ( Entitled t(*
| Medoc wine, in do. f Drawback.
I Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatreyd.
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pfpe« and quarter eajks
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
4000 buihels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stf.
To be Sokl at Public Vendue,
I (If not bnfor* disposed of at private falc) v
I / ~\N Fiiday, the iitrt ot December uext, at fix
. j W o'clock in the extning, at the Merchant*' Cos
' J fee lioufe, in Philadelphia, Forty TbouJand Nina
! I Hundred and Thirty Wine aeres of LAND,
. I now or late in the County of
m-1 I monwealth of Pennfy4vania, and on the witeraqf
1 Trefh and Wheeling Creeks and Ten Mile Run. —
* j These Lands are fertile and well timbered, and were
' 1 uatentecd early in 1787, except 3700 acres or thcrca
-1 j bonis, which w«re patented in i7ga. One fourtb
/ I of the purchase money to be paid at the time of sal*,
- ] f-or tberefiikie a credit ofone,two and three monthly
d I Will be given, on iatertft and good fetnrity.
I O&oberHS. gawtS^
* To be Sold at Public Vendue, s
I (If not before dtfbofed of at priwite file)
1, | Friday, the rnffc day of December, at jXjt
J v„/ o'clock in the cvemrte, at the Merchants' Cofioio ->
y I Houfc, in Philadelphia, Twenty Six Thoufand'S*-
; I vah ffuodrod and Eighty acres as JLANP, in tL«
I State of New-Yoik, bet-ween the northern bounca
1 of Penafylvaoia and tho Sbfquehanna, now, or late,
I in thetownfbips of ffamdob and Warren, and coun* '
-j ty of Montgomery One ionrih of the uvfchafo
I money i» to be paid at the time of (ale ; for the »•-
I (iduc a credit of one, two, and three months will be
j given, cn interest and good fccurity.
j O&Ute 6. gawtS
Peale's Museum.
j TTHIS valuable rer.ofitory of the -works of Kl
- 1 1. ture, so well calculated to delight the mine!
I and enlarge the onderdacding, is opened daily, to
j usual. It flar.di in an airy and healthy fitnjiioh,
1 and frce from the epidemic that at present liflM*
I the city ; it way, therefore, be fre(jue»t«d n.tii
""I thegreateftfaf«ty.
I A$ an Ainufoment, the study of Nature is th«
I most rational and plaalir.g : as a Sciwce, the mo!t
" I sublime and inflruflive. • It eleratntthe niind and
| expands the heart. Tbey
" li'ltm Nsturt't writ can tLarn, -will GoJ
t~ j ionverft."
of I Many inter-fling additions have lately beea
B " 1 made to 'this Museum : and the feathered tribe,
J I containing a variety of the most rare and beautiful
fubjeif!», is now ver}- advantageously arranged.
I Wa*en Figures, of Men large as life (lome of tham
!>.- casts from nature) are h,ei; drtffed in their prep?*
" habit?, and placed in attitude* charai2criilic of thfk
_ refpeflire nations. Here nay be fsc» the North-
I American Savage, and the lavage of South-Ameii
ca—a laboring Chincfe, and the Chinefc (Sen(i»-
's man the sooty African, and the Karotfchatlale—
with fo'rae Natives of tlx South Sea Iflaudi. F!w
»- I immense variety and interring diversity v/lucl»
d. I this Museum oilers to the view, may Sefecn blfc
'le I «unnotbe described with full effiS.
u- Piice only i-4thof a dollar.
t- I Seyt. jB. Kw
* Davis's Law Book Store,
)n No. 319, High-StrMt.
M GEORGE DAVIS,
f C I busied for fame time past in prcpar»-
" 1 AJ tions for removing intohis.profent house, hta
I been under thenecelutyof poftpouinguntil thisd3y
I informing the gentlemen ofthe Bar g/er.eral!y thrn'
the United States, that his fpringimportation us
- law books is now arranged iud ready for Ule, on
~' terms that he trusts will intitlehim to thaiike p«*.
I frcence he has/experienced for lev'eral years past,
g j Catalogues, mam)lining the mofi varied coll> e
lf ' j tioaever imported idto t hie country, are (>rint«4
and will be delivered on application.
c ' 1 June 47.
H Boston Glals Manufactory.
1 'T'HK citizens of the United States are ljerebjr
" I X iAfnrnsed, rhat the m»rufa<9ure of Windo\V
r I (; j; ne w commenced it the Glass House in llof*
ite I
. I tor.
. 1 It is m-edlcfs to fay any thing of the excellent
eir I quality of the Bofw: (il'ia, as it is so well known
| throughout the United States to be in ev<ry rtfpeA
I greatly superior to any ever importeJ from Europe.
I It will he cut to any size commonly used ; and
ue I jjy,y.' o e constantly bad by applying to Cn.tKi.ts F.
[ KufFER, at the Glass House. .
j Order* from the diftar.t States to be aidrelTed to
- I Mr. Samuei. Gorh, Court-ftieet, UoftoM
I Boston, Sept 30,1797 O 4—*aw6w
ce I Mtjfri. Tiiralby ana Ah/on, Cbarleflon 1 Mrjfrs.
} Hedj>e W BviUm, Halifax, N. C. Mefn. WiUeti
',j, j a.-u/ 0' Conner . K'orfsU ; Mr. Ellis Price, Alexandria ;
' I Mefn. TuttJi and Brncn, BdlMcre ; Mr. llof linu
| JJeivY«ri 1 and JtiiJfi'S. IIu.:/ln In, xiart>
. 1 ford; jn'r. .'i-vmcur, HaiuiM-li ; ate rejvefitd to lift*
| .be alove orice a wee* 6 -u'W.iv.
[ ivarutd to the Editor•