of m UltlttttS Hto0 9 Philadelphia Davy Advertiser. -
m NUMB Eg 1631 - j
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For D R T GOODS.
r' Forenoon —Edward Fox, No. i 6»
• * , ) south Front-ftrret, T
onaa y\ Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. $5 j
South Front-street. Iy
Forenoon—John Connelly, Old City th
v rj J Auflion, No: 73 fout'h Front-street.
'"' J ' ) Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
C_ 183 High-street.
.ir 1 r , C Afternoon—Peter Benfon, No. 74
Wtdnefday ) south Third . ftrcet .
~ f Forenoon—Edward Fqx.
"- a y | Afternoon—John Connelly. ,
p. • , ? Forenoon—William Shannon.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Beiifon. 1
To be fold at the Merchant's Cos-
see-House, fa
ON the tenth day of December next, at 7a' Hi
clock in the evening, one'eertain bond yr
obligation Qated July 16, 1795. signed by John ♦ W
Love of Alexandria for Hmfclf, Jofiah Wailon
and Samuel Love for £ftt 10 Virginia currency,
payable on the3ift of October lalt paft,to Stock-
Icy Doneifon or his afligns—which Bond the
fald Donelfon assigned to James Grant, under
whole p > A'tr of attorney this sale will be made.
For further particulars appl) to the fubferiber*.
FOOTMAN and Co. Au'Slioneers.
Nov. aB. dttothd-
Sale of an elegant Country Seat;
at auction;
On Wednksday evening next, the 19th inft. at
the Merchants' Coff -e-houfe,
4 IVILL BE SOLD, J
N F.LESAN T COUNTRY SEAT, contain- ?
J. A. ing 6 aeret and 40 perches, with a neat two
story biick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple hi
•Orchard, &c. situate on the Irifb. trail lane, in the 3
townlhip of Moyamcnficg, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will bi
be m.ide known upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette, or at the Auolion Room
of the fubferiher.
improvements upon this place, for taste and
iiaad unrivalled.
John Connelly, AuS'r.
November sj. dts
To be Sold at Public Vendue, -
[(lf not htfore disposed of at private fait) v
ON Friday, the titft of Decesnber next, at fix a
o'clock, in the evening, at the Merchants' Cos-
Jfr House, in Philadelphia, Forty Thousand Nine
Hundred and Thirty Nine acres of LAND,
row or late in the County of Wafhingto«, and Com
monwealth of Permfylvania, and on the waters of
Frefti and Wheeling Creeks and Ten Mile Run.—
These Laftds are fertile and well tigered, and were
patenteed early in 1787, except-3700 acres orthorea
bg.jis, which were patented in 179 a. One fourth ,
o« the purchase money to be paid at the time of sale, v
f or the refxdue a credit of one, two and three months,
will be given, on iutcreft and good feturity.
Qftober 6. p
To be Sold at Public Vendue, {
(If not before disposed of at private sale)
ON Friday, the firtt day of December, ai fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants'Cotfee
House, in Philadelphia, Twenty Six Thcufand Se
van Hundred and Eighty aces of L \ND, in the
State of New-York, between the qoiih: to bounds
of Pcnnfyh'ania and the J-u'quehanna, now, or lale, -
in the townships of Hamdei: and Warren, and coim
*ty of Montgomery One fourth of the purckiafe
money is to be paid at the time of file ; for the re
liiue a eredit of one, t .vo, and thiee months will be
given, on intcreft and good lecurity.
Q6Uae 6. 3'" ' s
Landing.
From oa board the Ihip Edward, at Walnut
ftrcct Wharf, 1
London particular Madeira Wine,
of a superior quality, For Sale by the fuhferiber.
Robert Andrews.
November 3. eot *
~FORSILE, ,
A Team of five excellent Horses,
with a Wsgjpn and Gears. The Horses are all
young, U.ong, true to the draught, and capable
of hauling as great a weight as moil in the coun
try, Tht Waggon and Gears are strong, and
in good order. Apply to ROBEU I GREEN,
Weft Town, Chelter county, ort!o
Thomas Fijher,
No: 142, S- Second Street, Philadelphia
it mo. s, go^3 w -
This Day Publilhed,
Audio be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of
Seeond and Chefnut streets,
Price .3-Bths of a Biltar,
Obfervalions on certain Documents
Containod i* No. V and VI of
" The History of the United States for
the year 1796,"
' In which the charge or speculation against
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secretary of the Treasury, is FULLY
REFUTED.
ir rlxr f. n Br ulmi g1 r.
Tl«s publication presents a coneife statement
of the bafc means pradifed by the Jacobins of the
United States to asperse the charadlers of those
jjerlonswho arc cofifidtred aS hostile to their difor-
fchemes. It also contains the cor
jxfyondence between Mr. Hamilton and \lefTrs.
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venable, on the sub-
Sea ef the documents aforefaid, and a scries of let
iJr, f,-©m James Reynolds and his wife to Mr Ha
milton, proving beyond the polfibility of a doubt,
♦hat the connexion between him and Reynolds,
was the relult of a daring confpira«y on the part
of the latter and his afTociates to extort money.
■rt" A discount of one third from the retail pric«
will be made in favor ol wholesale purchafrrs, for
cash. Orders to be addressed to Mr Youn».
/Svnifl 25.
DANCING.
MR. & Mrs. BYRNE,
Of the New Theatre,
RESPECTFULLY inform the .Ladies and Gen
tlemen of Philadelphia, that jVlr. s
Academy will commence dn the ift, and_ Mrs.
Bvkne's on the id of December next,
november 20>.
Wanted, to Hire,
j\ I.arge and convenient HOUSE, in or near
IX. the centre of the city—for vrhicK a generous
rent wilt be given; to be taken for a year, or on
more tor a term. Inquire of ths Piiutcr.
©a. 17. eotf
PHILADELPHIA
f or Amsterdam,
•jSBL EDWARD, %
James Wickham, Majler,
EXPECTED to fai' i:i ofw days, having two ov
i thirds of her cargo already engaged, and near. fei
ly on board. For Freight or apply to tal
the Mailer on board, at Hamilton's wharf, or to pi;
John Donnaldfon,
No. 12, Walnut-ftrset.
November 58. dßt
t or Amsterdam,
The Ship
FARMER,
J ohn M'Co-llom, Matter ;
WILL fail in a few days, the E
part of her cargo being 2j
ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coffee, or pas
sage, apply to the master on board, at Walnut- in
street wharf, or to Q
JOHN SAVAGE. M
Who is Landing, out of the said Ship, from Bour- i
deaux, and For Sale, O
Claret in hhds. 8
White Wine in quarter calks
Claret in cases, of a superior quality »,
Fetitiniac, N
Sauternc, C Wines in cases B
Luuille, ) Y
Prunes in boxes A
november 24. j_ j,
Far Liverpool,
The copper bottomed Ship
kfo&iihir Hamburg Packet,
Captain Silas Swain.
A Large proportion of her
cargo being r:ajy ipioo i 8'
board, is expc(Stcd to fail on or about Sunday, the
3d of December. n
For Freight or Faffage. apply to the Captain on
board, at Walnot-ftreet Wharf, or to V
PHILIP NICKLIN Co.
November ■),%. § p.
' FOR LONDON,
THE SIIIF
PENN,
James Josiah, Master.
THE fcip is now taking on board her cargo, and
will fail in all next week. For freight or passage
apply to the captain, or to
Jeffe iff Robert Wain. .
nov IT. $ «
For Londonderry,
THE BRIGANTINE "
S U K
William Whittes, Matter.
•V.lt \ Prong good vefTel, about two
hundred fens, to fail with all tonvenie*t speed, a
great |part of her cargo engaged—now lying at
Willing and Francis's wharf. For freight or paf
facre, apply to the captaiti, or
JOHN SKYRIN,
Lmndenberger s tvbarf. 1
Who wants to Charter.
•\ Vessel of about three hundred tons,
ftov I 8. §
tor Savannah, in Georgia,
THE SHIP
«SW/y' Butler, %
Captain Chlswolm, , •
A new w.th excellent
aeconimodations for paflengers—
Sails on the loth of December. For Freight or
Passage, apply to ROSS ts" SIMSON.
Who have to dispose of,
A small invoice of GL AUBER SAL TS
INDIGO, and a partel of HOLLY WOOD.
not;ember 18. 5
for Hamburgh.
, MARY,
l Peter Yo*k, matter,
, (, rajßyiSk Lying at Ruflel's wharf, near Pine
I ' ftrect, is now ready to take in a
] j Cargo, and will fail in tan days.
, For Freight, or Passage, apply to
GURNEY k SMITH.
November 16.
* For Sale or Charter,
a-. The Snow
>t GOOD HOPE,
Wi 1 carry about lioo barrels, ani
)is ready to take in a cargo. For terms
apply to
Pragers CST Co.
ir No. 151, South Secood-ftreet.
Who have for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar and
Rnm, Madeira, Lisbon, andTeneriffe wine.
November 7.
y .
Wanted to Charter,
nt one P ort ' n Hifpaniola and back
* faft failing Vessel, of the bur
r- thenof™s or 700 barrels. For terms, apply, to
r- Benjamin Moroan, No. 170, South front street,
r9 . or to ROBERT ANDREWS,
b- No. 86, South Wharves.
:t- ro-jrprbcr 10. $
>V t or Charter,
is,
irt THE SHIP
John Bulkley,
c< Samuel Volans, Majler.
° r ~\ "'HIS veffdl is built of live oak
£gc£s£&x3s£>s X and cedar, of about 30-0
barrels burthen, and ready to receive on board a
Car " Jeffe £ff Robert Wain.
oa. 31. ' i_
n- For Sale or Charter,
®|mTw° Brothers,
an, excellent fir.yle dcck'd veflel, burthen about
1600 barrels—r.ot twelve months old, and in
ar compleat order. For terms apply to the master
,us on board, or to
oa Jo/epb Anthmy ss° Co.
Nov. diw.
By John Fenno, N°- 119 Chefnut Street.
THURSDAY EVENING,
Tilt SHIP { '
ifiP cOMME RG K ' \
Captain Ricuar© Waistcoat, *
LivtrpoaN> now dilicharging L "
at SSmtoii's wharf, ne.ir tfcc Dr.-iWbrfdgc, where
owners of goods on freight, wrll please fpeedi'y to j 1
fend their permits, vesTal will dirfcvftly after . 6
take i:i freight 00 vCry low terms for Boftoh. Ap
ply to the captain, or to '
lfaac Harvey, jun. ric
No. 5, South Water Street. Ui
A few tons of Hone, or sand ballast wanted.—
Apply as above. ' f t l
november 27 §tot. diJ
Philip Nicklin Co. H
HAVE FOR SALE,
At th'eir Storss on Walnut street Wharf,
HavannahSugars, whiteandbrown
25 hhds. Jamaica do. j
-30,-0 pieces of broad Nankeens
Imperial Tea, in quarters and eighths of chefls c .
Quickfilvcr in tubs
Madeira Wine in pipes and hogsheads .
Teneriflfe Wine in pipes.
Old led Fort Wine inhsgfheads ,
Sail Canvass, ulTorted, No. I to 8
8 cases of Mancheftar Goods, confiding of
MuflinetSjGinghami.Thickfctts.Cordvroys, &c.
;oo ciate> Queeus' Ware, assorted
Nails, aflorted
Black quart Bottles fc
Yellow Ocre in coiks ifl
A quantity of writing Slates, slate Ink Stands, &c.
100 quarter <:aiks Gun Powder
'7 if: bane nlf a for SALE or CM A RYER,
The Ship
HAMBURG PACKET,
Burthen jiO tons, coppered to
the Sends, and completely Sued. a .
TheJhip MOLLT, burthen 340 tons, ay,
good veif 1, and completely Stud G
The brig AMAZON, burthen 1300 bar- K
rels, may be ready lor ft» in a few days. P
The whole of the above vefTels to be seen at
Walnut street Wharf. 5 nov. 10. J
Rundle & Leech,
Have just received, and have for Kale, at no. 9,
Walnnt-ftrect,
Liverpool and St. Übes SALT *
Do. best house CO A LS
Queens' WARE in cases, alTorted V
Beurdeaux BRANDY of an excellent quality 4
Do. CLARET in cases, do.
THEY HAVE ALIO
For SALE or CHARTER > 1
TBE SH,r
PEGGY,
TBurthen 115 tans, in excellent condition, and
may be sent to sea with little expeaceor delay.
LIKEWISE,
WILLIAM,
Burthen 201 tons,
| november 16. $
Port and Madeira Wine, ;
Now Landing,
By (hip Edward, from Madeira, and Betsey and
Peggy, fre -i Oporto, in Pipes and Hogfheadi,
For sale by
PETER BUGHT.
WHO ALSO OFFERS FOR SAL*,
The Ship
AMITY,
j Four thonfand barrels burthen, ,
in excellent order—ready to take
in a cargo—abopt three years old.
LIKIWISK,
The Schooner Industry,
Burthen 800 barrels, ready also to receive a car
go^ —and a quantity of
Jamaica Rum and Sugars,
Just landed from the ihove veffe's at South street
- wharf. eoim. Kov - *•
James & Richard Smith,
TAKE the liberty of informing: their friends
and the public, that they hixve removed their
ilore to No. 54, South Front Jlrstt, next d«or to Ed
' ward Fox's Au&icn Room, where they have at
1 this time for sale, a large and g-ncral assortment of
European iff Eaji India Goods 9
Many of which are just imported in the Clothier,
William Pen*, &«. &c.
„ Oa.a?- 6 .
Samuel Pleaiapts tsf Sons,
No. 74, South Second-Jlreet,
HAVE received a supply of Sesfonabte GOODS,
which they are now opening for sale, on
A reasonable terms, O& 11 4 W
" ROSS Ssf SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Codas, and
a quantity of Bengal CO TI ON
Bengal SUGAJ , in bagi and boxes
Jamaica,
St. Vincents, > RUM.
and Bongal J
300caflcs RICE, tnd
A parcel of ftlip building RED CEDAR.
oa. 27. y
to Landing this day,
ty From on board th« schooner Two Friends, Dan
iel Crawley, Master,
80 hhds. and > Jamaica RUM,
ii pipee ) J
FOR. SALE BY
George Latimer iff Son.
uoverr.btr 9.
For Sale, by the Package,
For cafli, or good notes at sixty or ninety days,
-° viz.
1 a Book an<l Jaconet Muftins p| am 1
stripes, and Checks I An brted in
do. do. 'lamboured f ])lc | tJ „ cs .
do. Ladies handkerchiefs, & | °
gentlemen's neck do. J
Jaconet chintz muslin for home and the VV eft
India market, I'm'lieote and linen handkerchiefs,
for do. do printed do. do. common purple and
3, chintz fliawls.
The above goods entitled to drawback 011 ex
:f ' portation. Also a few fcotchcambricks and an
ut assortment of muHin by the piecA
ln The whole of the abo«c being A eonfignment
er from the manufaiiurers in Britain.
' To be seen at William Blackburn s
Office, No. 64, South Second Street.
Nov. t.
NOVEMBER 30, 1797
Canal Lottery —No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, the zoth
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lot«epy r at'
Seven Dollars, at Wm. CL'ACKBtillN'j 1 ottrry 'V.
and Brokers' Office, No. 64, South Se.csjuM' *ertAl
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
Du'lars, where check books are kept, ior regifl-r-. f u j
ing and examining in these, the City of \Vafhing
ton, No. 11. and Paterfon an'l informa
tion where tickets may be had imnofl of the Lotte- (n ,
rics authorised by law in any of the States of tht
Union.
N. B. The bufintf. of aBaoKER, in buying and
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difcountiig Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of ■
Lands, Houses, &c, «Scc. will be duly attended to,
by Wm. BLACKBURN. J
november 15. 5
~ N O T I Cl.
ALL persons ooncerned are hereby notified,
that the f" ! >}fcriber intends to apply for a re
newal of the undermentioned loft certificates of
Stock in the Bank of the United States —Me for
warded them under cover of a letter a ldrelTed to
John /.nflcy,of London, by the (llip Bacchus, capt.
Gborgej which l<?ft this port in June last for Lon
don. But that Ihip having been captured on her
and sent to France, the above letter and in
clofure have failed in their destination.
xThrec certificates, viz. frc
Nos. 26325, 26326, 26327, each for W
four (hares, dated January 1 ft, 1797, and l!l
issued in the name of Heary Grace, of Tot
tenham Highcrofs, Great Britain. ll
ZACCHEUS COLLINS.
Philadelphia, november 8. , 2aw6w
Wanted, by a Gentleman in Virginia,
A discreet, sensible Matron,
aged about 45 er 50 years, qualified to teach
young boy» Writing, Arithmetic, History and
Geography—Also, to aA in the capacity of House
Keeper. For further ißformation apply to the
Printer. n»v. 28—diw
_____
Prime Beef, fit for India voyages, sot sale by
WILLIAM SHEAFF,
No. 168, Highrftreet. ""
Also, about fiftetn buudred weight of Beet-
Wax. 1
Nor- 15, 1797. dtf. J
Samuel & Miers Fffher, T a
ARE NOW OTEtiING, a
At their Warehouse, Vo. 47, Dock Street, a frefh si
assortment of Woolen and other goods, suitable to b
the season, received by the b'te arrivals from Eng- g
land. ti
Tbn bavs also for Sale, v
Lisbon c
Port Wines, J
AfTorted queen's ware ia crates, &c.
loth mo- nd. diw3taw.jw. £
LOST, c
IN thi* City, on Sunday, s6tb Novembar, 1797,
a red Morocco Pocket Book, containing 7 notes r
of hand toßcA> & Pierie, as follows,viz. '
John Duffield's, for 441 dollars, 73 cents. <-
William M'Laws 43? 37 i
George W y's, 177 19 t
John Doaks, II 90 1
Edward Clayton's, 60 1
Do. 30 t
Do. 17 1
One 10 dollar Bank of Pcnnlylvanianotc—an or- ,
der «[■. n Walter Franklin, Esq. in favor of Charles ,
Read, and sundry other paper* tkat can b« of no j
use but to the owners. Payment of the aforefaid [ :
' notes of hand being ftop'd, a reward of fifteen dot- j
lars fliall he paid to the person or peifons bringing j ,
said pocket book with the aforefaid contents to j |
Read and Pierie, no. 6j, Chefuut ftreat and no '
quefiiom asked. ,
november 17 *eod3t.
School Books and [stationary.
W. Y 6~U NG,
No. ?2, Second-street, cornt-r of Chefnut-ftrect,
HAS now reatfy for sale, a very largt assort
ment of Enrr{ijh, French, Latin and Greek
r SCHOOL BOQKs! Also, such elementary books
" on Science, as are generally read in the academics
1 and colleges throughout the United States.
f LATELY PUBLISHED*
Sheridan's Dictionary, the sixth edition, in one
large v >l. & vo price 3 dols.
Ditto, large 12 mo price 1 dol 75 cts.
Ditto, common, price 1 dol. 50 cts.
All forts of dfiiwing, packing, printing, and
writing Paptr ; Bookbinder's Boards, Pailebosrda,
sheathing a*d blotting Papers; printed Blanks,
; blank Books, Wax, Wafers, and other aritles, ©f
u ' the best quality, used in tfee counting house, or
public office.
Catalogues of a mifctllaneous colledion of
BOOKS, with the price of oaeh affixed, to be had
by inquiring as above. 0&. 24> —3aw6w
3 Walker Sc Kennedy,
No. 73, South Front Stnet,
HAVE FOR SALI,
100 Hoglheads of prime Georgia Tobacco,
ALSO,
50 Pipes of Bonrdeaux Brandy,
10 Pipes »f old Port Wine
_ OA. 17. Kaw *
LAW BOOKS,
s ' Latest London and Dublin Editions.
H. iff P. RICE, Booksellers,
No. 16, South Second, and No. JO, Market street,
HAVE just received by the lite arrivals from
London and Dublin, theii spring importa
tfon, confiding of a variety of the latalt and most
approved Law Books, which, added to thole alrea
— dy on hand, forms the most extensive collection ev
er offered for fa!ein this country. They theiefore
beg leave to notice, that from the nature of their
' } connc<fticnsin Dublin, they arc enabled to fell 1: ,fh
editions (as they have hitherto d9Be) at the very
lowest prices. The following arc among the latest
si publications.
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, * sc.t.
P«eke's Cases at Nisi Prius ; Ridge Way's Reports
in tbe time of Lord Hardwickj ; Meyer's Probers
Predice in the Ecclesiastical Courts ; Barton s
Treatise on a Suit in Equity; Tidd s Practice of
nd the Court of Kind's Bench in Pcrfonal Anions, a
parts ccwmplete ; Ward's I.aw of Nations ; t-ruife
x- on Ufet; modern Reports, u vole. Londop edi
ln tion - ■ . 1 r n
H. and P. Rica oitpefl t» receive by tue farll ar
nt rival from New-Yorit the 6th vol. complete of
Darnfordand F.aft's Reports, th« ad part of Gii
s's bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, ami a number of
new publications.
Jujie a 6.
.hocola e and Milliard,
of a superior Quality manufactured,
and ) epptr, ground ; (helled or
V.X pearl B»rley ; Philadelphia Porter, Beer,
Alt- and Cyder ; Taunton ar.d Burton Ale ;
London Porter j red. Port and Lilbon Wine,
iuitable for'exportation or home confnmption.
The highefl p:ice given for Mustard-Seed.
Alfa for/ale, A quantity of Booking and
a variety of colors; a tale of
FuJiiaaa, Shawls, Stc, for fa!e by
JOHN HA WORTH,
No. 98, fou:h Front-ftrcet.
not'. 27. m &th.t.ij.
James C. Ssf Samuel VV. Fisher,
AT THEIR STORE,
No. 13, corner of Arch and Front streets,
HAVE FOR SALE,
Cotton and worsted Hosiery in trunks, aflbrttd
A few bales red, white, and yellow Flannels
Ditto futt ron)all Handkerehids
Ditto Pullicat silk ditto
Ditto Pondicherry and Madrafs ditto
Ditto Gurrahs
Bengal black Taffcties
4000 pieces Nankeens, and
Few thefts best Hyfbn Tea
Alfo—lsoo box s bell London Window Glass,
from 8 by 6, to 19 by 14 —and 15 hhds. Glal*
Ware, assorted, which they wiildifpofe of cheaper
than ar.y in the city.
November 28. £awtf
Imported (vidNew York) on the
ship Hero, fromJMadras and Calcutta, and for
fait; by th« fulifcriber, at No. 61, Clrefnut ftrect,
between Second aod Third Streets, the follow
ing articles .
Maharagonges Charconna Dorens
Chintz anrfCShcoes Dacca worked mufliiw
CiiUis 3.omaW ' Band&nnoes
Nullas & PenGafoen Challa Romalt
Blue cloth Hair ribbon
MuUMuKhankerchiefs Palempores
Patna do. Banares Opium
LeiTcr Cardimum Seeds.
Samuel Wilcox.
November 47 tuths4W
. A farm for sale,
IN Perth Amboy is the ftite of New-Jersey,
of four hundred I'-rnt, including a proper
proportion of meadow, of arable and wood
1 land, and fait ftiarfh : There uon the premises,
a good apple orchard, and a variety of other
» fruit trees, it is well watered with springs and
» brooks, it is bounded on two fides with navi
- gable waters and has a good mill site, its situa
tion is healthy and pleasant, commanding a
view of the aavigation of Perth Ambey and it*
environs, and convenient to the fineft filh and
c oyUers in their proper season, it abounds with
natural manure frsm which, with the advanta
ges of the fait marsh by applying the hay there
from to the keeping of flock, may at a fmali
expense, be enriched to a great degree and ren
dered one of the firft grazing farms in the Bate ;
, t .it is well calculated for a farmer or a gentle- .
man's feat, having several eligible sites for
building. This farm will be fold together or
divided, as may fult a purchaser, at private
sale, or if not fold, will be set up at public auc
tion on Tuesday the nineteenth day of Decem
ber next, at the boule of Robert Rattoone, inn
keeper in Perth Amboy, at eleven o'clock ill
the forenoon. Any perlon in«Jining topurchafa
1 lay view the premises by application to John
r " or Matthias Uatjied at Perth Amboy, from
- s whom or from the Hon. Jonathan Dayton, Esq.
!° speaker of the houfc *<>f representatives of the
1 United States now in Philadelphia, from Mat
' thins JfV/iamJon, jtan. efq. or Mr. Samuel Smith
'' I at Elizzbetb-Town further information may be
° o j obtained, —and who are poflefied of maps of
the fame.
Perth Amboy, Nov. 16, 1797.
_i *s—eodtißls
400,000 weight of choice Ik. Da
viingo CQI'FEE,
TOR SALS BY
[[•_ JAMES YARD.
November 21. diet
: ks bor Sale by the Subscribers,
Prime Rice in nubole and half tier ess
, Bout deemx Brandy
ne TeneriJ/e Ifine
Molajfes
Georgia and Carolina Indigo
Raiens Duck and one bogfbeqd of faiti
nd Iru/hts.
N. Is? J. Frazer.
' ;s ' No. 95, Sentb Front Street.
Nov. 7- dim
Yellow Fever and Pestilential
ia °i Diseases.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED, in one vol. o&avo.
By William Young, Book/slier,
S' No. J2, Secondftreet, the corner of Chcfaut Ureet,
(Pria, hi boards 8 7 I % Ctnts)
Neatly printed on fine American wove msdiota
Paper,
A VIEW
Of the Science ef Life ;
On the principles eflablifhcd in the elemenVf
v 4 of Medicine, of the late eelebrated
JOHN BROWN, M. D.
With an attempt to correfl some important er
rors of that work, and cases in illustration, chief
ly feleiled from the records of their pra£tice, at
the General Hospital at Calcutta,
Br William Yates & Chas. Mkclsak.
rta- To which is fubj.ined, a Treatise on the a6liot»
10ft of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica
:ea- tion for the cure of dil'eafes of indireil debility
ev " Andadifiertation onthe sources of Epideraicant'i
:ore Pcflilentialdifeafes; inwhichisattemptedtoprove
ir by a numerous induilion of fafls, that they ne
: ;ft' ver Jr if c f roi!rl contagion, but are always produ
er T ced by certain Hates, or certain vicissitudes of
' riie atmosphere, by Charlbs Maclitan, of
. Ca'lcutw.
oVtii nov - "•
on" T ° b < SM >
A Valuable Plantation,
uife upwards of One Hundred Acres of Land,
edi- vJ well watered, in a heilthy situation, about
seven miles from this City ; the buildings may be
I ar- made to accommodate a iarge family, at a mode
: of rate expense, and pofleffion had in a few vjceks.
Gil- Part «f the purchsfoir.oni y being paid, a reafoii
r of able credit will be allowed for the re mainder.
Enquire of the Primer,
covemtcr 3 asv/ftf
XIILibrary Company of Pbilaaelphia.
THE M?mbcr? of the Library Company of
Philadelphi a are* hereby informed, that the Libra
ry will be open ou Monday acxt, th~ 4th of De
cember, f»r the reception and delivery of books.
Thole who ni-g'cifc to return the books, Which
had been taken out. j>r vious to the firft of Septem
ber lust, in the course of the ensuing week, will
be fined as th.» rul s direit.
"7 he Loganian Library
Will »!fo be opened,at th« sam« 'ime, for the like
t>nrpofc9.
tl. B. \ few copies of*th« catalogues of the
bookn 'iclo'-pi:/ to these infl nations may be had
at the Library.
Z. POULSON, jUN* Librarian.
I ibrary. novembi'r .10.
A person well acquainted with
the theory of hook-keeping, who hts been many
years togaged in business tcr himfelt' and-ethers,
would be glad tu be employed, either as an agent
or laiSor ; or in polling books; gating infettled
accounts ; or in ficeculing any other kind of writ
iiitT, in or RngH'-il,
A liole acV*i'*fled to j. A. and left at this office,
will he | unilna'ly attended to.
tiov.-mbi-r 3.?. 3* w tf
BV Virtue of a. writ Fieri tacias tXme direiteJ,
will feu exposed to Public- Sale, at my OOica,
Rice, or SalTafris Greet, no: 117, 011 Monday, the
4'-h 'day of December jiext", -at n o'clock, a.m.
9 3 i groc« Buttons, aSarted
1 do. Shirt i J o.
JO bags Imperial do.
4 J-4 dozen ftoe P.u;kles
1 pail Buckles with Lutcbets
4i-i do. en Knives and J'orks *
i') S'ia do. worsted Hole, assorted
17 i-i 1 do. fruited linen Handkerchiefs
1 ,pi?ee clear Lawn
\ 1$ 1-4 lb sewing Silk
1 piece» Vlaek Lawn (stripe)
5 X-4 yar:!s flriped Caffiaiere
*4 groce, 5 j-2 dozen Tape, allotted
Si I dot-n Nonfopretties
I 1-2 groceTally Oart«*»
to pieces black twilled Galoon
S°i do. Ribbon, alTortei
S3 <!*>• Bandanoca
4 3-4 lb. gloss thread
do. coleured
6 pieces 4-4 white French Net
48 do Oauze
1 do. fpottfd Mode
I do. drab S.attin
1 do. white Flannal
1 do. yellow do.
yards Parlatian
J whi-s filU Shawls
J3 1-3 doz. fiik and Cotton do.
'o piecet Ferrit
3 do Shalloons
2 black leather Gloves
I do. best beaver do.
1 pieces llucki-ani
95 • 2 doz. Englift Fans
5 do. ladies tinsel Bands
a ib- fearlet worded Chord
I * groc« white ccttton do.
1.1 M chapel needles, assorted
5/8 yards mixed plaint
IS .1-1 dnz. worftedSocks
1J ib. Twist
I I-4doz. best Clkftayl.iue,
5 do. best Ferret do.
r do. iror C ndleflicks
I piece black elailic (Prire)
7 do. cap Rordsr.
T r'irlilf the property of
.be Void b) " Millard Gibbs.knd will
Wiiliam Nichols, Marflial.
Marjbal*s Office % ">
19, 1797. J dtS
. _ Mrs. GRATTAN,
IX I - »■ v. PFULLY informs the Ladies aud Gen-
P,^ r ' hc that (he propoles having
* ni l BALLS duiing the winter
f»ii Dollar, each Strbfcribfr, for one Ticket of
admittanceWu.inj the season. #
No Suhfcribers Tickets trausferrabl ■.
•wo Dollars a'fingle "Ticket,
Th« Concert to begin at Rklf F ast fix, and the
I x? the Fa:i at cxpence
of wh.Kh Mrs Gs.-.ttan to difchare-.
tie Concerts will b«gin as feon at the Band ar
rives from New York.
November 39. Slw
_ ' now~la"nding, :
From on board the fcip F-jrmer, lyin e at Karper'»
Wharf,
Claret in hhds.
Ditto in cases •
S iuterre Wins ixi do.
lor Sale, apply to
John Whitc/ides & Co.
No. rjg, Marict-ftreet.
on hand,
S'urdcaux Brundy in pipes
i inc old Antigua Rum
A few cases of Claret, of a superior quality,
* IMPORTED "
I?> the ship Aurora, from Hamburgh, and for
i»le by the Subft riher.
Brd ticks, 8-4, 9-4, and 10-4.
A quantity of Tapes, No. 13 and 25.
And o>l Hand,
German black Ribbon, No. 3 and 4.
George Perrmck.
novemfcer 11 3aw»w
1 he City Dancing Aflembly,
Will commence at O'Eller's Hotil, on
Thursday December 7th.
Thomas M. Willing Stephen Kingston
J'mes Gibfon William Read
Henry WikoiT Robert E. Griffith.
Marugers.
no-v. 19th. djt
All Persons
Having any demjn<!s ag»«nft the Effete of the
Utc Captain George Irwin, are requtfled to
bring in their accounts pioperly on or
before the firft day of Janiiary next tnfuing
and those who are indebted to fiid estate are so
licited to make immediate payment to
SaKAH IRWIN, Adminifirit. !x.
ii»v■ 19 1 j
To Gentlemen who intend /pending
ike Winter in the City.
ROOMS to LET,
WITH or without Uo^rd—at No. 114, cornar
of :-ixth and Race Streets. The situation
agreeable—and vicinity has bjen fre« from the late
contagion. (lil.j-—,|tf
N u T J C £. ~
""T'HE^ r !acHb!p between John Ikston*k ard *
i J a «..io Bacon, under the firm oflrftoneand
Bacon, is this day diffclved by mutual qrnfent
All persons who fUnd uidccted to fa d frni aj-e !
reoiiefted to make immediate payment of their
rtfpiCtive iccou-:ts, to Jon:/ 5 svaiM on Landen- ,
burger's wharf, wjjo j* «uljr au horifed to receive
thr f*me ; and all perfom h-ivinir any dcm.in Is.
gairift the said firri, bp. ovfircd to" 1 ring in their
accounts immediate')' tok r.i for fcttlcmrr.:.
John InJlcr:c, i
'Jama JSacvn. •
rov;aiber 20. ccdti |
Xi)e (Basetie.
PHIL ADEL PH IJ ,
THURSDAY EVENINtt, NOf'SMSEX ?o.
PRICE O !•' ST OCRS.
Philadelphia, 2st!» Nov. I 797.
6 per Cent. • ittj'lo to i if.
2 per Cent. ' 10/4 to 6
Deferred 6 per Cent. 11fO
BANK Ijnited States, 23 per ct. at'vanoo.
North America, to do.
Insurance Co. Pennsylvania, fharcs'o-' peretnt.
N. A Ihyes do.
COURSE OP EXCHANGE.
On London, at jc> days par
at 60 days 65
at jpdays 6i
Amflerdam, per guilder 40
It it said there is a letter in town, dated
Paris, Sept. 2A., with a peftfeript dated
3d Oft. which informs that three Cominif
fioners have been nominated by the French
Government- to come to this country to en
quire ihto and adjust the business of the fpo
liationson the American commerceby French
eruizers.—lt-is added that the persons no
minated had not immediately accepted, but
had the offer undtr consideration.
A pamphlet written by Fauchet, the
former French Minister to tha United States
has lately been received in this country.—
We hear it reprobates the policy of entering
into a war with the United States on the
part of France.
Several publications on the fubjeft of Go
vernment have lately been made by the ce-
Ulrated Barrere—One of which is an eul»-
gium on Mantefquieu.
M. Neckar has lately pnbhfhed a book in
which he has panegyrized the Confti.utiou
of the United States.
It is amuflng to notice the various ru
mors of peace, politeness and conciliation
on the part of France to the United States,
and their extra plenipotentiaries. Time
will (hew whether these are founded, Jor de
signed to diftraft.'
The commillionerß appointed by the go
vernor to carry into effed the law for alle
viating the distress of the citizens of Phila
delphia, and the fubiirbt thereof in confe
qucnce of the late calamity,
To the benevolent donors who came for
ward to give relief to our fuffering fellow
cLizens at one of those trying periods which
seldom happen in any country.
It is to you that we conceive it our duty
to address at this time ; not only b«caufe it
belongs to yoirto be acquainted with thi
appropriation of your money that was en
trafted to us as your agents, but likewise
to give vent to feelings of gratitude that are
engraven on our minds, for the generous
anAfpontaneous supplies deposited in our
hands, at a moment when our thoughts
deeply engaged to find out ways and means
to afford relief to about fix thoulatid distress
ed mcR, women and children, who had be
come objefts of our care, i.i consequence of
having received fuppoit from the sum grant
ed by the Legislature, which was entirely
expended by the eighth of Oftober: At
this juncture we called on our felloe-citi
zens, and wera anfw<fred v.ith that noble
ness of spirit which characterizes oUr coun
try, by receiving in cash upwards of twenty
thousand five hundred dollars, cxclufive of
three hundred and thirty five barrels, and
sixty hundred, three quarters and fifteen
pounds in bags of wheat, ryo, buckwheat,
and indian meal ; besides potatoes and sun
dry other kinds of provifioti : aided by the
above, and assisted by a nunjbtr of respec
table inhabitants of the city, northern liber
ties, and Southwark ; we ate enabled to
continue relieving, by weekly donations, a
bove thirteen hundred perfom, chiefly heads
of families, opprefled by poverty sickness
and distress, and to give employment to a
beut fix hundred men on the road 3 ; who if
not provided for in that t»anrifr would, in
all probability, have been, from dire ne<jflTs
- compelled to defcetid to means injurious
to themselves and to the community.
Thus have we endeavoured to explain to
you, in some mcafure,-in what manner we
expended your money, entrufled to-us until
about the 18th inft. at which time an exam
ination of our funds took place, and the bal
ance found t» be but two thousand dollars
After making appropriations for the pur
chafa of five hunffvd cords of wood, and
fifteen hundred bushels of potatoes, for the
purpose of meeting the distresses of the poor
in the more inclement season.
At this time we were called on by an as«.
fociation of young women of great refpefla
bility and known philanthrophy, who have
been for several winters employed in reliev
ing without partiality the fuffering poor par
ticularly of their own sex ; paying no re
gard to distance weather or fittrution ; not
doubting but it would meet with your ap
prohation, nnd be as agreeable to you to be
informed of their praife-.worthy request, as
it was to us by having it in our power to
grant them five hundred, dollars and ten bar
rels of flour, at a time when we had con
cluded to suspend the supplies as eur fellow
citizens had returned home and emplovmcot 1
w-a attainable ; yet there might be nume- il ;
rou3 cases wheivin this worthy female focie- v:
ty unight indulge themselves- iff visiting the 1 1
mam'ior.s of distress and thereby give relief' i
to many vyliofe sitUations would never have ' .
oeen otherwise known' j (
Although we have the above balance.be- '.
ides wood, portoes, and flour, we fear it , 1
will be scarcely fuScient to meet the nume- j 1
*ous wants of the inhabitants during the ap"- | '
pror.ching winter. j s
Having been as brief as poffWc in (riving ! j
>-;;u a detail of nur proceedings, a n-.oic mi- c
lute one we fiiould be willing to afford by i c
1 conference with any persons who may feel r
hcmf.lves interested in the expenditure of t
J the monty.'&c. entraftcd to our care; or
are dcHrouS to obtain iurormatV'n for the
I purpefe of improving by our experience, , for
j the advantage of fuflering humanity in fu
. ture. For this purpose. a reference to the
minutes of our proceedings may be had at
, any time, by enquiring of the members,
j i hankfm we are that we have been aid
ed by forae supplied by vmi, and direfted
ky Providence to give comfort to the mour
ner, bread to.the hungry, and consolation to
the diflreffed widow and fatherlefs.
Robert .Wharton, Samuel Whee'er,
Edward Garrtguts, John IVagner,
George A rcls, George Ingles,
John James, Robert M'Mullin,
Ifiael jf/iitl, ;v„ , William I.innard.
Thom'H'£tii>erv,t ' 1 ,
Commifaner's Qfirt!, Old Cnurt Ihufe,
Philadelphia, Nov. 24, 1797.
By a careful pervifal of the following ex
trafts the public will fee that the views of
the directory were foretofd a month previ
ous to the 4th Sept. but 110meansfufficiently
forceful were; used to repel them, and as has
i usually beeu the cafe in France, since the
; condemnation of the king, the mofl aban
doned triumphed. (Colnntb. Cent.)
Affairs in paris,
(Aicordnig to djtsren: Paris papers to the "]th
of Avrujl.)
" lucre is not one reprcfentative of the
people who does not receive daily letters,
, by which he is informed that terrorists, sent
for from Paris for an important expedition,
hive set out on their journey for that capi
tal—and that it may not be said the a/rival
of these dangerous men is the mere effeft of
chance, it is of importance to make known
to Francetbecircumftance of thisaffemblage.
" The fame invitations to come to Paris
hare been sent at one and rite fame time to
every part of the republic, and to known
terrorists. The jacobins flatter themselves
with a speedy explosion, with an attack a
gainst the legif'ative body, and the
of ftreral deputies, viz. Dumolard, Vaub
lanc, Pichegru u Villaret Joyeufe, Wiltbt,
Boiliy &'Angla3,,Camille Jordan, Henri La
riviere, See.—(From the Invariable.)
letter to the Editoc of the Memorial,
" The following is what I have just learnt,
and I haftcn to communicate it to you.—
The direilory, or rather the direftorial tri
umvirate, project a terrible blow, the execu
tion or which would complete the ruin of
our unfortunate country : We mud hasten .
to announce in order to avert it. Irt about
four or five days the jacobins in their pay
will be sent to the houses of the energetic
deputies of the new third, and will surround
them, to prevent their going out and repair
ing to the councils. The direflory will
address a message announcing a royalist coii
fpiraey, difcoyered during the night ; and
among the authors and accomplices will
name all the deputies whose talents* virtue
and ( are fp. great an obstacle to the
perfioy ofjheir iibwticidal designs. They,
will demand their trial before the high court.
All the isoturtjgineers will rceelye, with a
transport of rage, the denunciation. A
great part of the Ventre (the belly) will
join them. The decree will be carried, and
the acciiTed will soon be sent un
der a ftrtng escort to Veudome, and the
reign ofjerror wilj J,e re-eftabliflied. The
confpiraey will be founded upon pretended \
papers, to have been found in the
Portefeuilhr of M. d'Entraigues, or some ;
other ; and the names of all th# deputies to
be destroyed will be inserted in it.
"There are in Paris 400 1 men dressed
like citizens, who are not so : The terro
rists abound at Paris ; and in a few days
there will be a movement.
" Among the warnings which the mem
bers of the legislative body are
receiving, the following expression has been
remarked : The dyke of the legislative bo
dy is behind them ; if they have the mif
fortune to retreat, they will fall in ie, and be
forever loft. It is said that the diredtory
had a stormy Itting last night ; that the
triumvirate persist in their fatal designs
I he tempi ft, and the fearful calm that pre
cedes it, infufes horror and dread into the
hearts of all.— (By a deputy, in the memorial.)
"Itis no longer polfible to doubt. Not.
only does a confpiraey exist, but it is carry
ing into execution. Paris is enveloped at a
distance beyond the constitutional circle.,
The danger is imminent, The National Re
presentation is on the point of being struck
at. Men who are to be affaflinated are men
tioned by name : the places of abode of the 1
Deputies are known. For some time men 1
have been sent into the Tribunes and envi- ]
rons of the Assembly, who examine us, re- 1
eognize us, and mark out thair vi&ims The
moil pressing and alarming warnings are ad
dressed either to the members of the Councils i
or the'eoniffiifiion of infpeftors. It is not 1
possible for us longer to shut our eyes to the 1
danger that surrounds us—we mijft speak 1
we fnuft aft. Detachments without arms I
are introduced daily into Paris, and the I
number isalreadyconliderable. The mir.ifter /
ofTolice fays nothing. The parts are dif- 1
tuibed, and in a few days the blow is to be :
struck. Yederday in the Corrulers and .in 1
thejA(Terribly, men were seen, who caine to <
ifcertain the disposition of the fiifferent plae- I
-s. The day before ytfterday, two foleiiere 1
being in an Inn near the Hotel of the Mi- c
lifter of \Vacv or.e of them, whom too much a
wine ij?fj, indifcreet, said to his I
jomradej that, hoiwas Well'paid; and that f
or his p»it, 'he legkoaed »pon lcillidg ten 1
>r twilite of thofc- o£ Deputies. The c
peeqhes which, the soldiers make from the t
of the Sambre and Meufe are nearly 1.
>f the fane iind; and yet the Legislative ]
Sody do nothing to epen the eyes of the v
nen who are mi 'led; they do nothing to a
nake sure of a force to protest o
rhe hall of the Assembly is to be irtfmedi- 0
te!y yccupied by firmed men, who will get &
lofieffion of.it during the aiglit. Deputies v
lift of whom is made out, will be umfia
red, pr taken up in their houses ; a certain I
umber of Deputies will alonehavethe fecul- t!
y of.oak'aj a lilting; and this number, t>
or which the •onfpirators are Cure of before
he hand, or who will be rtprefltd by fear, will
"or form the Dire£iorial Majority. A 31ft of
u- May is immediately to bur ft forth ; and we
he cannot forefec all the frightful effects of it.
at "If the inhabitants of Paris do not get
argis for themselves, if they do not evince
d- vigor, if they do not round the Nati
ed onal Reprefentatiop, if fear keeps them (hilt
ir- j up in their houses, the city will be loft !
to • What curb can keep in soldiers drawn
j by the hope of pillage, and who are to piy
themselves with their own hauds ?—(By a
Depute—Mrmorial.)
" The recruiting goes ori by the party
that meditate:, a speedy exhibition. The
letters from Beauvais inform us, that 150
soldiers from one of the regiments there have
set out for Paris.
" Paris is at this moment a real Tower of
Babel, where rill languaq s are heard in ner
x- fc£t eonfuuon. One is frightened with the
of quantity of pattois, j/rgon, accents, gutte
'i- r.iis, noisy, See. See. heard on all (idea.—
ly ( Memorial of the ,6.' Z.)
as ,
he From an Augujlh Paper,
'ti- The following was crmpofed in c-'tnCequcncf of an
> ai.lv rri.fenr.rn rifiliHi dfome time Store frjow.
of the <ti r"'H papers, John H.rro*v
, f'-ewarning all person» from har>o-is»i» brs wife
fh:- haVing t'l.orirfl from hi bed and biMrd.
Since Jacobin J cl:fon. by 'U of aorruiying,
ie An-rjll'J n't -or fiith in conjugal knot.
• s ' Like JEufcrn Ri n i3'.vs. we m-.y now a' onvon
Pick&rhoofeasweylcsfe, witlioutflvnderorblot.
„ Deign, father of f.l.2ion—ml political sparrow,
• To jive one m reproof of your faaf.nlntte force.
By fro inn th» fair on •, now linic'dto a/? rroiu,
a ' Wlih tkat all healing cordiil, call'd a divorce.
of
rn FROM A LONDON PAPER.
e.
■is REPUBLICAN AMUSEMENTS !
EO BARTHOLOMEW FAIR. -
■n On Saturday at one, the Lord May»r, the
es Sheriffs, and several Aldermen, attended by
a- the city officers, proceeded from the man
re. fion house in state to open the fair. His
b- lordship flopped at Newgate, where Mr.
t, Kieby prefeiited him with the annual cold
a- tankard, which, it was observed, had much
better have been warm ( for the weather was,
for the season, extremely cold and wet.
t, The fair being proclaimed, and the clat
tering of harmony having ceased, the annu
i- al fun, feftivity, humour, blatkguardifm,
ii- thievery, noise, confufion and debauchery,
as began. It being, unluckily,on a Saturday,
n 1 the Saint Monday's boys were disappointed
it —the fair was much crotided notwithftand
y ing the weather. Tlte Scaramouches with
ic cracked trumpets, crazy horns, hurdy-gur
d dies, and broken winded organs, made a
r- moll glorious concert, which, by way of
11 the thorough bafa, was-filled up with the
1- roaring of lioiis, the squalling of birds, and
d the eternal bawling of " Walk in, Gentle
-11 men and Indies, waik in." The booths
e notwithftandingtheattual dijlrefs ofthe times
e were considerably morenumerous than usual.
y , The fneceffor to old Flockton had a capital
t. FantoctiV.i. The leaftcjjes and birds exceed
a ed any thing ever before seen. The nymphs
si;d fwaina from St. Giles's, Lukeifer's-lane,
U Saltpetre-Bank, Wapping, Field-lane, and
d the Borough Mint, were there in great plen
-- ty. Saturday being their holiday and Sun
« day their market,—The tall worhan and the
e dw!)rf inhabited one booth, and the cow*
d and oxen with two tails, two heads, three
e horns and five legs, had their adrairers.-»-
e ; Thatold Bawler-mafter-generalwitba mouth
0 ' as wide as that in Bull and Mouth llreet,
| invited the company to fee the Egyptian
d mummies, four thousand years old, swallow
- bot soup for 3 wager of a cool, to be paid
s at Grand Cairn, out of the sale of the next
flock of Crocodiles, eight of which are to
- draw LouisXVJII. triumphantly into Paris,
y, whenever the throne is ref-ored to him.
11 " Walk in, and fee the late empress of
- Russia : fee an old sow eat pease out of a
- pnil The fellow spoke so immensely ra
e fid, that numbers walked in and paid theii
f pence ; when they fa-.v ah old black sow,
t with its belly to the ground, eating pease
- out of a large tub, made exadly in the shape
- of Poland: the bait took, and numbers
f flocked thither—The wax work, or rather
) timber covered with wax, was peculiarly fa
t, tirical. The firft piece was the Holy Fa
- therembracing Buonaparte—but how? as
1 Dean Swift a/ks-r-
IVly tl - terrible g, neral did to bin difcltfe
A face fir to ir, nation! eyej, ears, or .
There was a violent horse laugh to fee the 1
- Pope kneeling down to salute the French 1
: conqueror, " a pojleriori the fubjeA was
1 ta'cklifh ; but the drapery was so well difpo- 1
■ fed, that there did not appear the least in- 1
- delicacy. A large groupe of figures, the 1
; (hewman said, were all the Emperors, Kings, 1
• Landgj-aves and Bi/hops of Europe, con- c
i fulling how to place the French Ring on *
: his throne, by Jlrippirg him of half his do- t
■ minions. There was a large map of France r
- before them, and oath was pointing what {
. he had iixed upon for his own part. The v
• showman said that the town was called Pil- (
/age : one of the company said it-was Pil- t
fij/c. The (lie wir.an said, he was a fool and | j
a lyar, it was Pillage, for did he not fee \
that they intended to carve one half of the '
country amongst them. There had like to a
have been a light, but the company una 1
voce joined the flu-vvman, and said the t
of the place was Pillage.—The Guillotine, \
and the body a id- head of the unfortunate t
Louis, were next fhrwci ; and the fl.ow msn ;i
said, he was murdered si- Paris A little t
Welchman swore by St. Taffy, he was mur- a
dered hi London. Air Iniliman sWore b'. e
the holy proker that ir \yas at Paris were the p
bloody deed was thine. The Welflimas -ve \-
plied, that our coot king and coot queen
were king and 'queen of England, France f (
and Ireland', and there was no other Kinjr a
ot France ; and if the Irishman denied it, li
or even doubted ir, he would be tried for a
Seedd'jh'jn, and hanged by the neck, that he I
Would. _
The Piayhoi-fes wcre thronged: "The '
Road to Ruin," and " H-lte/sio lter, «r o
tiie Devil take the hinihnotc," s faree \vi;t- r
ten for the oetaiiou, were creuded x or f<
eight times : and all glorious c " very
11 well worthy of the rank and'dM motion of
if the Gjni'imcn and Ladies who reiorted thu
ether.
•M^w^r^Mw^wyrTjarwai'wiiMiwMMiMiiiiiaiiiißiiiiijrii-ii, , umm
* CON G R ESS.
i- HOUSE Oljp REPRESENTATIVES.
t
! WPDNESDAY NOVEMBER 29.
n Mr. Coit observed that the memorial of
y Robert Rutheford complaining of an undue
a eleftion, was before the committee of elec
tions at the last session, but no report was
y made upon it. He moved, therefore, that
e it be now referred to the present commit-
D tee of elections Agreed.
e Mr. Sewall preferred the petition »f Ro
bert Cooper, of Marblehead, merchant, stat
s ing, tint owing to some mii'cake in obtain
- ing the certificates to authorize him to the
drawback upon a quantity of wine imported
fro.n Madeira, he had been prevented from
- receiving the usual allowance on its expor
tation. He prays for redrefs—Referred to
the committee of commerce and manufac
tures.
" Mr. Hajper moved far the order of the
day on his resolution regulating the mode of
taking evidence in cases of conteiled elec
tions ; But, upon Mr. Coi't's wishing the
comjderation to lie over till' to-morrow he
corfented. '
I.ir. Lyon said, when the motion was
proposed yeftcrday on the fuhje<£t of wait
ing upon the FreSdent, he fhou!d have op
posed it, only that he did not wish to de
prive some gentlemen of the gratification of
attending the ceremony ; and now hi hop
ed those gentlemen would consent to grati
fy him, by agreeing to a ftfnilar resolution
to that of last session, excusing him from an
attendance upon the bulinefa.
: Mr. Sitgreaves said, that not with Itandinw
r the precedent of lafl session, he should be
- opposed to indulging the gentleman from
i Vtrm#nt in his request. When a resolu
tion palled that hcufe.it was entitled to the
1 obedience of all the members ; and except
1 the gentleman could assign some better rea
, foil than he had,for the indulgence, he trust
ed he would not be excused from comply
ing with the order.
Mr. Lyan hoped he should be excused
, fro m.repe -ting the reasons which he had hit
, session given for his motion.' '
. Mr. Macon observed, that whether the
refutation wa3 agreed to or not, the gentle
. man might doubtlcfs remain behind if he
1 chose, as he had no idea that the houfc
could compel members to go about parad
-1 ing the flreets of Philadelphia. The gen
tleman might have confeientious scruples,
and if the ceremony were meant to be ref
peafnl to the President, members should at
tend it freely, or not at all. He should wish,
then ;ore, that gentlemen disinclined to th«
service, would rjpt join in it.
Mr. Thatcher saw no reason for esrcufiiifc
the gentleman from Vermont from his du
ty for a few minutes. If he had business
and chose to ask leave for a few days, lie
doubted not it would be granted ; but
when he vvifhed to be excused fiom attend
ing upon a business of importance, he "tho't
very special reafona IliouJJ be given for th«
indulgence.
Mr. Williams wiihed thegeritlenan would
withdraw his motion, as it wf u trifling with
t.ie resolutions of the hotife to excuse any
member from a compliance with tftem. He
hoped the gentleman would not pcrfevere
in his fihgulitrity, though it might fee the
wish of some of hiscoufiituents, against the
will of folaige a majority of the house.
■ ir. Otis hoped the [notion won't] not
prevaij. He prefumrd no gentleman ther*
was particularly anxious for the frciety of
the gentleman from Vermont on this jucca
fion. iJo doubt he would grace the prc
ceflian, but it would be fuflSciently long
without him, and if he chose to remain b;-
hind, he need be under no apprehensions of
being called to account for his conduit. It
was not becoming the dignity of the house
to pass the resolution in quettion. It ap
peared to him that the gentlsmpn was in full
health and fpiritr, and every way fit so/bu
siness; and as the houfc had rcfolved the
thing should be done, he had no idea of ad
mitting the protest of an individuafuppn
their journals jigainft the measure.
Mr. N. Smith knew the gentleman from
Vermont had obtained leave of absence, up
on a similar occasion last felfion ; but he be
lieved the motion past without consideration.
ft was ur.expedtedly made, and by some a*
uriexpef-edly carried. Whenever gentle
men gave a reafouable excuse for an absence
from the duties of the house, they were eon.
ftantly conferred to ; hut when a gentleman
came forward to ask for the indulgence,
without giving any retfna, exccj t telling
the house they had dcUdl\he fools, he could
not consent to his being excused. If the
gentleman wire unable to attend, if there
were any difficulty in the Way of his atten
dance, aside from the want ota difpofiti'oa
to do it, he should no* objeift to the indul
gence. Mr. S. said, he' could not
wf:h the gentleman frora N. Carolina, (M;~
Macon) that no gentleman was obliged to
attend upon this ceremony. For his part,
he always conlidered a minority as b«u:id
by the vote of a majority, and the majority
had pafled a vote that the house should at
tend the Speaker in prelecting
not "hat A, B and C ihould do but that •
the House of Reprcfentay'ves fhonld attend ;
a-'.d he believcdit to be as mueh the duty of
every metr.ber to form a house for this
pore, as far any bth-.r. He believed, not.
rnh'hndmg, that ii' a*y gentleman remain
ed behind, he would not be called to account
for is co dud ; out he was of opinion, that
a mot on like the present ought to be con
sidered as an indignity offered to the house,
and they ought ro decline afting upon it
Being of this ogjiwos, he flionVd move the
previous qneft^p^
Mr. Gal'.stin.l.iid, he should be in f.vr
of the previous que If ion, hut nor fc, t' -
r.afon,-. aHigit-.d Uy tin mover of it : • :
for thole offered by tl,'.- gentleman f,-. ;nNorth. Carina (Mr. Macon], viz. because
he did-not believe- there existed any powr
in that house to compel any member to wait
upon the President with the address ; there
fore it would be improper to grant an in
dulgence to a member from doing, what
there was no obligation upon him to do. p-}e
did net reco'lcft the words of the refaction
which had been agreed to. [The Spsaker,
repeated them—they were, " that the
Speaker, attended by the House of Rep*-
fentatives, fhail wait npon~ the President,
&c.] This, Mr. O. said, inuft be tinder
flood in a qualified sense, as the House of
Representative had no existence out of those
walk. When the Speaker presented the
address, the house wa3 uot present ; they
could not debate, nor do any aft as a house ;
the address was, therefore, ftriftly fpcaking,
presented by the Speaker, followed by mem
bers of the House of Representatives ; as
he"did not conceive the house had any pow
er without the walls of the house. They
could, indeed, appoint committees to do
business out of doors, but could not call out
the members as a body. Upon this ground,
he was, therefore, in favour of the previous ;
question.
Mr. Lyon said, nndrrrtanding the matter j
in the light in ivhich it had been placed by
the gentleman from Pennsylvania, he would j
withdraw his motion.
The Speaker fnid the main question was
not now under debate, and could not be
withdrawn, until the previous question was :
difpoled of. He enquired if the mover were '•
withdraw it.
Mr. Harper hoped not, He should vote |
" in favor of it, not for the by !
the gentleman from Pennsylvania, but that !
the house might express its sense of fuel) a
motion.
Mr. Venable enquired if there were no
way of getting rid of the previous question ?
The Speaker fti'd, he conceived nof.
Mr. Macon alked, whether it would not
he in order to commit, or poflpone it to a
day certain ?
Mr. Thatcher thought he had known in
flanco6 where the previous question had been
called for, and not taken.
The Speaker replied, then it mult have
been withdrawn.
The previous question wa« then put in
! these words, " Shall the main question now
be put r" and it wascarried unanimously, No.
Mr. Livingfton from the committee of
commerce and manufactures, presented a rc
folution to the -following effeft :
" Resolved, that all memorials and petitions,
which during the second f'fion of the qlh Con
gress were referred to the Committee of Com
merce and Manufactures, and not reported up
on, be and the fame are hereby referred to tie
said Committee, for their eonfideration and
report,"—Agreed.
The Speaker announced the hour to be
arrived, which the President of the' United
States had appointed to receive the address
of the house in answer to his speech, and
the Speaker, attended by the members ac
cordingly waited upon the President, at his i
house, with the address, aijd the answer,
(for which fee the Gazette of the United
States, of Tutfday and Wednesday.) 1
The address being presented and the an- <
fwer received, the Speaker and members re- I
turned to the house, the Speaker as usual, i
read the answer of the rrefideut from thf| i<
,chair : after wh'ch,
Mr. Harper said, it had been usual, where <
legislative nieafures were recommended in
the fpcech of the President of the United j
States, to refer such pai ts to felcft commit- I
tees. He therefore moved, that the house
refolvc itfelf into a committee of the whole i
on the state of the union, in order to take I
into eonfideration the speech of the Presi
dent. 1
The Speaker said, the fpt£ch had not yet
been committed to that committee. <
Mr. Harper moved that it be so commit- <
ted ; whiph being agreed to, he moved that
the house now resolve itfelf into a committee ]
of the whob on the state of the union; i
which was done accordingly, Mr. Dent in i
the chair.
Mr. Harper then proposed fix refolutiorfs 1
for adoption, to the following effeft ; which <
he pfcipofed to be referred to feleft com- 1
mittee*. '
1. Refolded, That so much of the speech of
the President of the United States as relates to I
power being given to the President to poflpone I
the meeting of Congress, in certain cases, be re- <
ferred to a felt '.CI committee, to report by bill or I
other wife." <
2. That so much as relates to the protection
of commerce, be referred, Isfc." _ I
3. " That so much as relates to the attempts
of foreign agents to alienate the afftdions of the t
Indian nations, and to excite them to actual hof- (
tilities agaihjl the UnittdStates,be referred,&£." 1
4. " That so much as relates to a provif.cn
for the fulfilment of the 6tb article of the treaty 1
between the United States end Great Britain, t
be referred, oc. 1
5. " That fq much as relates, to the reim
hurfement of certain advances made by the con- 1
fds of the United States, be referred, &f." .
6. " That so much as relates to the revision, c
and amendment, in certain particulars, of the
act relative to consuls, be referred, Sec." <
The two firft refolutioss were agreed to t
without objections. On reading the 3d. 1
Mr. Nicholas said, he did not think they (
were ripe for going into this business. It 1
was usual, when the President alluded to <
fa ft 5 in his speech, whSfh he proposed in* 1
the course of the fefiion, to give further in- t
formation upon, to wait for that informati- 1
on before they proceeded to aft upon them. 1
He thought thi3 would be bell fn the pre- f
feut cafe. '
Mr. Harper did not recolleft that the 1
President referred to any particular dricu- ! f
mentis on this fubjeft. If a committee were i t
appointed, they would of course enquire t
into the fafts, and report accordingly. 1
Mr. Nicholas said, the mover hi.nfelf t
feenud to be aware that the committee f
would be at a loft for facts,, and that they 1
would have to apply to the President for 2
them. He thought it would be more re- t
fpeftful to wait, for the communications
r which would of ooiiVfi h ■ mad-to tke House
l t.ian to employ d eoraniittee to make the
- enquiry.
Mr. Harper said the President had told
t them, as a faCt, that such attempts had
' been made. [Mr. H. read an extract from
1 toe speech.] 1 o poftpooe the appointment
r of a committee, therefore, in order to wait
; lor further communications, would be tofay
- they did not believe the fad, Before ; the
, President had made the assertion, he would
- doubtless be well allured of the truth of it.
F But he would observe, that if np such at
tempts had been made, they were not un
likely to be mad?, and. the law recommend
ed 011 that ground, was very dsliruble. It
was well known that the ordinary course of
law will not go into that territory ; there
must be a diltinft and particular legislative !
power for the purpose. Admitting, thera
fore that the President has been mifin
formed, the law could do no harm, but
might prevent the evils complained of,
Mr. Sitgreaves observed, t"hat the gentle
man from Virginia, (Mr. Nicholas) was
"try correCt in faying, that it was usual to
j wait for the promifiid communications of the
; Executive Department, before they pro
ceeded to act upon any business recomrnend
; cd by the fpeeah ; but it must alio be recol
lected, that the stile of this refutation was
different from that heretofore used. It was
cu'tomary to fay, on these occ.ifions, " Re
■ solved, that it is expedient to do so and so,"
j which they could not do, until evidence was
j before them; but this committee being dif
ferently formed, there was not that neceffi
. ty, and when the communication was made, ■
i it would of course be referred to the com
mute now proposed to b« appointed.
Mr. Dayton (;at Speaker) said, that the
law recommended by thj: President of the
United States to be pr.ffid, was to give bet
ter effeCt to th? nieafures already taken to j
counteract the attempts of foreign agents i
upon the Indian nations. Before a, law j
could be passed to give effeft to those mea- '
fures, it was was necessary, therefore, they j
should be laid before them; and, if a com
mittee were now appointed, they would of)
course have to look back to the House for '
information.
Mr. Baldwin thought there was Another
reafonfordeferringthe business. He thought
there was a law intimately connected with
this fubjeft which expired in the spring (of
which they should have notice from the com
jnittee of revifal if it was so") and of which
this provifiatt might make a part. He saw
no inconvenience which could arise from let
ting this fubjeft lie over for a time.
Mr. Macon said, if the gentleman from
S.,Carelina wouldconfent to let this matter
be pasted over, the House might proceed
upon thofc objects upon which there feemrd
little difference of opinion.
Mr. Brookes saw no impropriety in refer
ring the business to a feleft committee ; for,
if it were referred; it did not follow that
they were obliged immediately to aft upon
it. crime, ue laid, was identified
If the committee were appointed, and the
President had communications to make upon
the fubjeft, it would have a tendency to pro
cure more tarly information than might o
therwise be obtained. He thought this re
solution a» proper fqr committment as any
,other.
The question for agreeing to the rcfoluti
-011 was put and carried, 44 to 3;.
The remainder of the resolutions were a
grced to, the committee reft, and the house
took thetn up.
The three firft resolutions were agreed to
in the House without debate. Oil the 4th
being read,
Mr. Sitgreaves said that this refolutica
ought to go to the committee of Ways and
Means, as coming direftly within their pro
vince ; but at present, he behVved, no such
committee had been appointed.
Mr. Harper thought it might with pro- 1
priety be referred to a feleft committee,-as
it embraced other objefts besides providing
money. 1
Mr. Venable was of opinion it would be
best to postpone this business to a d'rtant
day. He did not know that any decifiun
had yet taken place, and therefore there was
no neceflity for the resolution at present. <
Mr. Sitgreaves was not willing to agree
t» a postponement to a distant day ; but
thought it would be best referrtd to the 1
committee of Ways and Means, as it was 1
ntceffary they should have the whole of the '
demands against the country before them. 1
He moved, therefore for a postponement to ]
this day two weeks.—Agreed.
The two remaining resolution »';eing agreed <
to, and the latter rf ferred to the committee 1
of the whole to whom was referred the afts j
relative to American seamen. 1
Mr. Sitgreaves observed, there was a <
very important matter in the Speech yet un- 1
touched. He therefore, proposed the sol- 1
lowing resolution ; ?
" Resolved, that so much of the Speech as 1
relates to Foreign vefjels failing under forged >
/fmerican papers, be referred to the Committee t
of Commerce and Manufaßures — ■»
Mr. Livingfton moved for the order of the i
day on the report of the committee appoint- I
ed to enquire into the operation of the aft t
for the relief and protection of American i
feaupn ; whiqh being agreed to, the house/
resolved itfelf into a committee of the whole *
and the report having been read, three refo- a
lutions were agreed to, viz. one dire&ing f
the Secretary of State to lay before the f
house an abftraft of all the returns made to t
hitji by the Colleftors of the several ports, r
and such accounts as Jie may have received i
from our agents in foreign ports ; another I
for allowing cents per day to every c
sick seaman in a foreign porf, and a funi for i
their traimportation home ; and another <H- r
resting that a cevrain deduction (hall be
made from the tvages of the seamen, for c
the maintaing of the sick and ditabled, and f
for the support of an hoipital. The house 1
having concurred' in theie resolutions, and t
appointed a committee for carrying them in- t
to effect, . f
S Mr. t')3f !I: r3 .
f f iFvf itfcir f.i; i ? corr.frrrttet ■ >
e «.n the report, o'thii petit .'o;i -.-> r .. : . n "|
Vefef —which being nrtr;-'J : ...
3 took the chair, a'-id the buSne/V *a -;o-ce]
1 ed with.
i This petition wa* nrefattM ,lnr;ig the
t lad,winter session, and thei. •v^r'ed'-upon,
t The petitioners (late, that SJte'y wereV.j, nts
T for 'he French prjvaten fcbooner Lff>, cap
; Harmand ; tHa us j.'.iti -I'e'T sent into
1 the port of Charlcftou*an Kiglifh prize (hip,
. called the At»i?v, wiili a c«*go• confiltijig
-of fogar :rid which ivns duly eni'eted
-I in the custom house, on feV.enth of April,
"i '79j > that rhey proce<?dedy.)on the i2ih of
.! the fame month to th'f l "'fSßsJ cf the cqr-rft,
: • wh.'n they were prohibiud from fellingby
'; a libel ifiued from the court of Admiralty ;
' i that on the 2 l ft of the month, an injunction
■ was granted hy the diftri& court to stop the
file altogether, as contrary to the treaty
concluded with Great Britain ; that the
said fJtip Amity being in a very leaky condi
tion, they obtained permii«ioN'from the eol
--le6tor to land the cargo ; that by a survey
afterwards held on the (hip, (lie was con
demned as not sea worthy. In consequence
application was made at the custom house,
i for leave to re-export the cargo in neutral
j bottoms, as French property, which per
j million was at firft refufed, but afterwards
granted ; but that in the mean time, by
the fire which laid waste a greit part of
Cnarleftoa, the 13th of June last, J2 hog
sheads and 3 tierces of ftigar were totally
consumed ; wefeupon, the colledtor order
the rum, part of the cargo of the ship Aa
-1 ity, to be fold to secure the duties on
j the sugar thus consumed by fire. The peti
j tioners pray for relief by a restoration 01 th'e j
i duties thus collected from them,
j The committee of commerce aifd manu
j .ft&uveß are of opinion, that this cafe mull
i be considered as one for which 110 prohiion
i had been made by law, but as analogous to
that of wreck; that the cargo was supposed
be landed only in coiffequence of the al
! le IgpS disability of th* thip, and that as no
. sale of the cargo could be made, within the
; United States, no duties ever could have
! been codcftcdiVofliif ;£u as the deftruftion
of the sugar by fire, nothaviiig altered the
original ground on whicj) they were fuffered
to be landed: to wit, merely in tranfitu, un
til the (hip could be repaired or the goods
re-exported, the duties ought to be refund
ed. Whereupon they recommended to the
House to adopt the following resolution;
" Resolved, That, a committee be ap
pointed to bring in a bill to grant relief to
the petitioners, according to the prayer of
their petition."
The above ref»lntion was agreed to with
a trifling alteration. 1 The house took it up,
agreed to it, and appointed a committee to
bring in a bill.
Mr. Dent, on apjflfcation, was cxcuCed
from serving on the committee of commerce
and ir.anufa&ures (being'already upon two
other eommittees) and Mr, S. Smith was
appointed in his place.
On motion of Mr. Otis, the petition of
Wm. White was referred to the committee
of commerce and manufaftures.
Adjourned.
Xfje (frasette.
PHILADELPHIA,
THURSDAY EVENING, MjvRMBF.R 10.
' ' •- • ' ' 1 ' "
Extrafl from 'the Charge of Chief Juflice
Ai'Ktan, to the Grand Jury, Nov. 27.
" Before I conclude, I Am sorry to have
oCcasion to mention, that there is another
crime, that peculiarly concerns the judges
of the supreme court to endeavor to correct,
it i 3 thafof Libelling. I will describe it
at large.
Libels or /iScllifviufi, taken in the mo 2
extensive sense, fignify aqy writings, pic
tured, or the like, of an immoral or illegal
tendency; bbr in the sense we are now to
consider them, are malicious defamations of
any person, and especially of a magistrate,
made public either by writings printing,
signs, or pictures, in order to provoke him to
wr.tth, or to expose him to public hatred,
contempt or ridicule.
The direct tendency of these libels is the
breach of the public peace, by stirring up
the objvrts of tbem, theirfamiliesand friends
to aftsof revenge, and perhaps ofbloodfhed;
which it would j»e inipoflible toVellrain by
the severest laws, were there no redress from
publie justice for injuries of this kind,
which, of all others, are mod sensibly felt ; i
and which, being entered upon with cool- 1
ness and deliberation receive a greater aj- ;
gravation than any other scandal or defa- !
mation, continue longer, and are propagat- 1
ed wider nnd farther. And where libels are 1
printed against persons employed in a pub
lic capacity, they receive an aggravation, <
as they tend to scandalize the government, 1
by reflecting on those who are entrusted
with the admitiiftration of public affairs, and 1
thereby not only endanger the public peace, 1
as all others do, by stirring up the parties* 1
immediately concerned to a6ts of revenge, t
but have also adiredt tendency to breed in f
the people a Miflike of they- governors, and '
incline them to'fa£ti«n fedition. c
Not only charges of a heinous n'atfire, and ;
which reflf.d\ a moral turpitude bn the party, '*
are libellous, but also such is'fet ISrn in a t
fcurrilotis ignominious light : per- 1
son desires to appear agreeable in life, and *
mult be highly provoked by such ridiculous <
representations of him, as tend to leflen him c
in the eftecm of the world, and takeaway 1
his ieputat'oll, which to fame mea is more {
dear than life Kfrlf, fer these equally create e
ill-bh>od, and provoke the parties to a£U of j
revenge, and breaches of the peace. c
A defamatory writing exprefiing only one t
or two letters of a name, oc-tifing such de- t
fcriptions and ciicumlocutions, feigned t
names or circumftanees, in such a manner,
that from what goes before, and follows as- \
ter, it must needs be understood to fignify f
such a perfoa in the plain, obvious and aat- \
liwfc'coa'Truism fthc'w'iol.', wm"j: -oper
•!'' a Ms!, aj-ff C-J w!i,;i
i •• at brjje : fev it hv'the nfmoft
'tVPt upon the law. to fufftr it's justice
eluded by Tuch tr.nirig tvafions; and
it irn ri-itcu]->HS a'&furdity to fay, tiiat a
e writing, which is, understood hy every the
. mean«;ft capacity, cr.vno-t pofflbly be undir
s (Isod by the cnijr!s and juries.•
It is equally ridiculous and ebuird to fup
> pose that if a man speaks (landerous or d--
, famatdf-y words of another, he may be sued,
r and ample damages recovered for the injury,
1 | but if the fame wofdov.re put in wrfting r,j
, i printed, no pusilhment can be inflicted,
f Such a dc»<strine may gratify the wi'hes of
> envjous and malicious towards and aiTafiins,
' but must be detelted by allftnlible and good
; men.
I _ These offence? are pnniliable either hy
' indictment, ir.Toi rnation or civil action : but
there are some instances where they can be
punished by -\ erin:r.al prifccution only; as
the United States 111 congress aflcm
blecT, the legiHature, judges oßthe supreme
court, or civil magifirates in general ■ are
charged with corruption, moral turpitude,
b.ife partiality, and the like, wlien no one in
particular is named.
15y the law of the twelve tables at Rome,
libels which affeCted the reputatiou of ano
ther, were made capital offences but before
the reign ..of Augustus, tht punishment be
came corporeal only. Under the Emperor
V alentinian, it was again made capital, not
only to write, but to publish, or even to o
mit deftroyiffg them. But by the laws of
Penpfylvania, the authors, printers, and
pjiblifliers of a I,'bel are punishable by fine,
, and also a limitted iinprifonment at hard la
j bour and lolitary confinement in ,ga >l, ot>
1 imprisonment or one of them, as to
the court in difcretian fliall seem proper, ac
cordiug to the heinoufnefs of the crime, and
the qualityand circumftanees of the offender.
Any libeller, or person even speaking
words of contempt against an inferior magis
trate, as a justice of the peace or mayor
personally, ,'Jju' he be not then in the adual
execution of hit office, or of an inferior offiser
or Jukice, as a constable and such like, be
ing in the attual execution of his office, may
be bound to his good behaviour by a Gngle
justice of the pejee.
By jhis law and these pvinifhmerits, the
liberty of the press (a phrase much used but
little understood) is by no means infringed
or violated. The liberty of the press is in
deed essential to the mature of a free state ;
but this consists irt laying 110 previoas re-
Itraints upon publications, and not in free
dom from censure fc;r criminal matter, when
publilhed. Every freeman has an undoubt
ed right to lay what sentiments he pleases
before the public ; t® forbid this, is to de
stroy the freedom of the press ; but if he
publishes what is improper, mischievous cr
illegal, he must take the tonfequence of his
temerity. To punish dangerous or offenfive
writings which, when published, shall on a
fair and impartial trial be adjudged of a per
nicious tendency, is necefTaryforthe peace &
g#od order, of government and religion ;
the only (olid foundations of civil liberty.—
Thus the et>/7/ of individuals is still left fret,
the abuse only of that free-will is the objeft
of legal punifliment. OurprefTes in Penn
fvlvania are thm free. The commou law,
wi{h refpeit to this, is confirmed and eftaj)-
lifhed by the conflitution itfelf. By the 7th
fe£t. of declaration of the principles of a j
free government, kc. it is afccrtained, " that
the printing prcfTcs (hall be free to every '
person, who undertakes to examine the pro
ceedings of tit- Legidature, or any part of
government." Men, therefpre, have only
to take care in their publications, that they i
are decent, enndidend true; that they are for |
the purpose of reformation, and not of defa- i
mation; and that they have an eyefokly to 1
the public good. .Publications of this kind '
are not snly lawfal but laudable. But if
they aie'made tft gratify envy or malice, and j
contain personal invedtites, low fcurility, or
(landerous charges; they eart aafwer no!
good purpafes for tfie community, but on
the contrary, must destroy the very ends cf
society. Wete these to tfcape with impu
n y* youth would not be fafe in its innocence
nor venerab/t old age in it's <w'ifdom, gravity,
and virtue ? dignity andjlatien would become
a reproach; and the faireft and belt charac
ters, that this or any other country ever
produced, would be vilified and blasted, if
not ruined.
If anr person, whether in a public or pri
vate station, doej injury to an individual, or
to the society, ample ndrefs can be had by
having recourfc to the laws, and the proper
tribunals, where the parties can be heard
personally, or by counsel, the truth can be
fairly invetligated, and justice fully obtain
ed : so that there can be no neccffity nor
reason for ixcufing any one of public or pri
vate wrongs in pamphlets or newspapers, or
of appeals to the people, under feigned
names, or by anonymous fcrlbblers.
•Every one who has in him the sentiments
of either a christian or a gentleman, caanot
out be highly offended at the envenomed
fcurrihty that has raged in pamphlets and
news-papers, printed in Philadelphia for
several y« ars past, insomuch, that libelling
has become a kind of national crime, and
diltiriguifhes us not only from ail the states ,
around us, but from the whole civilized
world. (Stir fatirc has been nothing but (
ribaldry and billingsgate : the conteit has .
beer, who coold call n: mes in the greatcft 'j
variety of phrases ; who could mangle the t
greatcft number of charafters ; or who could; r
excel in the magnitude or*virulence of their
lies. Hence the honpr of families has been
fhined ; the highest polls rendered cheap ,
and vile in tile fight oT ihe people, and the y
great eft fervj-es and virtue blasted. This 4
evil, so fcaiula'oMS to our g;>verrfnient, and [
detcftable in the eyes of all good men, tal s
alo id for redress. To cenf'jrt the licennauf
nfs is to maintain the liieity of the pref. (
At a time _wbca inifunderftandings fr.'- 1
vail between, the Republics of the United 1
States and France, and when our genera] i
government have appointed public minifter s
" T " " ;' ■ 4 ' ♦ ,
5" ! en<?ea««ir their removal ant! rflore fh»
' " ' " ■""•rr.'.jsy ksm • «»f the jou-nals and
: --vs..pr)»er.' i t! .. cii 7 cf Philadelphia hare
:e UwK-dwith;;<»e ra4 .irritating involves,
if , Coached in the vulgar and opprobrious
a langcag , not only agiunft the French tii
, t;on and their a!!;e.s, but the very men in
i- powei;. v.ith whom th * nuniflers of ©urcoun
try arc lent tp negociate. These pubKcati
ons have an evident tendency not ,only td fruf
*- - trattf a reconcilat ion, but to create a rup
ture and provoke a war between the sister
> Republics, and seem calculated to vilify,
■» nay to subvert all Republican governments
!• ; whatsoever, •
fj Imprt-fT d with the dutiji of my jlation,
, I have used some endeavours for checking
a these evil*, by binding over th; editor and
printer of one of them, licentious and "viru
'e!)t beyond all former example, to his good
t behaviour ; but he (lill perseveres inhisne
c l irious publications ; he has ransacked our
? language for terms of reproach and infrlt,
a:;d for the bafeit acejlfStions againlt every
° ruler and distinguished character in France
i and Spain, with whom we chance to have
> any intercourse, which it is scarce in nature
' to forgive ;in brief,.he braves his recogniz
ance and the laws. It is r.ow with you,
> geniiemen of the grand jury, to animadvert
- on his conduit ; without your aid it cannot
be correfted. The government that will
- not difconntenance, may be thought to a
dopt it, and be deemed jullly chargeable
' with all the confeqjiences.
Every nation ought to avoid giving any
; rc,l l offence to another. Some medals and
: dull jefb are mentioned and rep'uffented as a.
i ground or quarrel between the Englifil and
Dutch in 1672, a s;d like wife cajifid Lewis
the 14th to make an expedition *;ito the
» United Provinces ot t'n? Netherlands in the
■ fame year, and yearly ruined that Common
' wealth.
Vv e are sorry to find that our endtavouts
, in this way have not been attended with all
- the gcod effects that were txpedted from
them ; however we are determined to pur
sue the prevailing vice of the times with zeal
and indignation, that crimes may no longer
appear less odious for being fajbionallt, nor
the more secure from punifhsnent for being
: popular.
The criminal law of this state is so preg
nant with juflice, so agreeable to reason, so
• full of equity and clemency, that even those
1 who itiffer by it cannot charge it with rigor.
It is so adapted to the common good as to
fuffy no foliy to go unpunished, that re
quires to be retrained ; and yet so tender
of the infirmities of human nature, and of
the wives and children of even the greatell
offenders, as to refufe no indulgence which
the fafety of the public will permit. It
gives the rulers no power but of doing good,
and deprives the people of no liberty but of
d#ing evil. We are now (tlynik God) ia
the peaceable and full enjoyment of ouriaws,
of the free admiuiftration ofjuftice, and in
complete pofleffion of religious, civil and
political liberty. May the Divine Go
vernor of the world continue those blessings
to iy, and impress it as a duty whieh we
owe to ourselves -who enjoy tfrtm ; and to
those virtuous men, who, under God, have
been inllrumental in procuriru; them ; and
to our pollerity who will cljinTat our hands
this noblest inheritance, to maintain and de
-1 fend them at every liazard of life and for
tune.
! Y° u may now, gentlemen, retire to your
tiflj deliberate with coolness, judge with
impartiality, anv decide with fortitude.
And may Godovei-rule and diredl all your
. proceedings to the furtherance of juftictt
j and happiness of the people."
COMMUNICATION,
j The high estimation in which our free
and enlightened citi'sens hold their political
BIRTJ-I RIGHT, the LIBERTV OF
THE PR ESS. was yesterday evinced to
j the juflice, hsnor and credit of a refpedabk
Grand Jury.
Died] —Ob Sunday evening last, after*
very Ihort illness, fiacerely lamented by a
mimhar of very rtfpedable acquaintanco
and friends, Mrs. Mary. Humphreys, Wife
of Mr. lames Humphreys, lately Shel.
kurne," Nova Scotis, ne<w of tids city
GAZETTE." MAR INF. LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVtB DAY ,
Ship Birmingham Packet, Hill, Havre-68
Brig Elizabeth, Fi.llerton, C N Mole 26
CLEARED.
Ship Clothier, Gardner, Liverpool
t, • £?"S*» ice ' Surinam-
Bug Minerva, Long, B;]boa
Schr. Sally, Scudder, Norfolk
Sloop Charlotte, Price, New-Yo;k
Nancy, Clark, Norfolk
The South Carolina, Carman, u arrived
at Charleston from Philadelphia.
Th<? Maria, Sherer, and several other vef
fds, arc arrived in the Delaware.
CLEARED.
New Turk, Ncv. 22.
Ship Mohawk, Moore, AmJhrJam 86
P'XZh Atkiafon, Amjerdam
Capt. E/i/s oftie brig Bayonne,of this part, from
Si. Bartholomews, was Inifght too eofe in
with Sandy Hook, on Saturday, lajl, by ajhot
from the Englijh letter of marque fchcontr
Chance, capt. Thomas, (who hadjujl failed
from this port) and after a detention of four '
hours, fiffered to come in. Capt. 1. informed
: that he was waiting fir fey era! outward bound
vejcls loading with Spani/h property.
CJ Tie above schooner arrived here on the
■2-Jth lilt jiom Diminica, and is the fame which
ctftured on farpajiige, Capi. Mcrctr, int h
schooner Ifahlla, from Surinam to Philidels
fhia, on suspicion of having Dutch property on-,
board.
FOR-SALE,
Several fonts of Types—half worn.
Including l or.g I'rimei *!: out 400 weight, in
good cocdition, snd v ~u'i apfwer the purpose of
.1 country printer as well as new.
Ensu re cf tl\s Printer, cov . 30.
*Op£r-FOR SALE—by the Sunseßiseits,
An elegant assortment of Madrafs
HANDKERCHIEFS, by the bale.
WILLINGS y FRANCIS,
nov 21. § Penn-Qrcet.
FOR SALE,
BY THE SUBSCRIBERS,
Madeira Wine, firtl quality, in
pipes
Madeira Wine, New-York quality, in pipes
Lisbon WINE, in pipes
CLOVESand7 f 4a . , . . ,
NUTMEGS \ °fthelateltimportation, inboxes
opauilh Wool, in Bales, suitable for Hatters.
Willings & Francis,
Penn-ftreet, No. 2t.
Nov. I. w&stf
"FOR SALE, ~~~~
by the subscribers, No. IT, Pv'nn-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander, from Bengal,
Confining of w
Baftas, of various qualities & prices
Coffaos Punjum Cloth#
Sanahs Guzz y do.
Humhums Chartonna Dorea
Blue Cloth Tan jibs
Chintz and Calicoei Mulmuli
Mamoodys Checks
MJiaragongss Patna Hhkfi.
Ginghams Mulmul do.
Guzzenas Bandannoui
Gurrahs Siflcrfoy
Piniafcoctf Choppa Romals
Sal{»atchys Sooty do.
Gifhc Romals Periians of various colours
Mock Pulicats »
aoo tons SUGAR
90,o«o lb. PEPPER.
Willings & Francis.
The Piece Goods
O* the Ganges are now op«n and exposed to sale it
that commodious {lore the north cornar of
and Fourth 'treet. 10.
L A N D 1 N G,
From on board thefliiu Cleopatra, Samuel Niewcll,
commajnder, frem London,
60 tons of the best clean Rullia
HF.MP
fio cases of bottled BROWN STOUT.
For Sale by the fubferibers, No. 11, Penn-Areet.
Willings & Francis.
Odt. jr. d
J aft arrived,
From Port-au-Prioce, and for Sale by the fubferf
bers, No. 41, Penn-ftreet,
hogfiiead»,~\
8x ucrces (prime Coffee
523 barrels ( ,
646 bags J
Willings & Francis.
\Oil. V
FOR SALE, nr
Joseph Anthony Isf Co.
No. 5, Chefnut Street,
A cargo of choice Bourdea\ix Bra®dy, ift and id
,r proof, just landed
250 bales of Bourbon cotton of afuperior quak'Fy
9 do. Surat, do do
A quantity of heiivy black pepper in bales
Bourbon lndigp of the firft quality
High proof Jamaica ipirits
Old London particular Madeira wine ? In pipes &
do. market do \ ( ir* cafla.
New England rum in hogfheadi
Genuine Holland Gin in pipes
Claret in cases
Spermaceti candles andftrain'd oil
PVime Boilon be^f
Choice Halifax Salmon in barrels and half barr«li
Do. Herring in do do
Best Boston in barrels of the fall fare.
New-England tow l : m«n
A few tons of Russia cordage
Russia feather beds
CUw. -r and Timothy feed in 2a(ks
whale-bone
No. r, 2, and 3, Boston fail duck
A few chelta firft quality Hyftfn taa
Carolina rice in whol« and half tierces and
An in-voice of Dutch hollow gtafs war«.
November 8.
NOW LANDING,
At South-street WhaiV,
7be Cargo cf the Ship Concord\
Captain Thompson, from Batavia.
About JOO tons firft quality Java Coffee (the
whole having been l'eleiflcd)
So tons Java Sugar, in cani/lers and bags
10 legurcs of old Arrack
Nutmegs, Mace and Cloves
FOR SALS Br
PETER BLIGHT.
IVho also offers For Sale,
Just landed from Ihip Amity, from Jamaica.
2oe hhds. Jamaica Sugar, and
170 do. do. Rum.
November 13. d6w
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL presents his
molt refpe.ilful compliments to his form
er emplcgrert and the citizsns in general, and re
turns his moll [grateful thanks, for the very
bountiful encouragemeut he has expetienced for
these twenty-five years past, takes this opportu
nity of informing them, that his school will be
open'd en Wednesday the 13d inflant, at his
Elegant Ball Room,
in South Fourth-Street, between Chefnut and
Walr.ut-ftreets. To begin at 10 in the morning
for young ladies, and 6 in the evening for young
gentlemen.
gj- Prattifing Balls will cowimence on Tues
day, 6th December, and be ».continued every
Tuesday, during the season.
Nov. 17. aawtf.
Muftcal Inflrumcnt Manufactory,
167, Arch-street.
TO THE LOVERS OF HARMONY.
HARPER,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he has
now ready for sale, a few of his new invented,
and much admired fide board Piano Fortes, with
Pedals,patent swell, fonopahant and French harp
flop, which for sensibility of touch, brilliancy of
tone, fimpliciry and durability of conflru&ion, the
faperiority of which,he flatters himfelf, a fmgle tri
al will convince the unprejudiced judge—As they
are manufaSured under his immediate isfpeilion,
of the very be?- seasoned materials, he can fell on
reafonabla terms for Cash. Inftrumants repaired,
tuned, &.C.
N. B. Second hand Piano Fortes taken in ex
change for new,
novemticr 18. Jawimo.
All Persons who are indebted to
theeftate of William Hevsham, fen. ol Phila
delphia, deccafcd, are requested to make speedy
payment; and those who have any demands a
gainst said estate, will plcafet'o preleiit them, pro
perly attcfted, to the fubferibers.
IViiliam Heyfham, ~j
Robert Hexham. > Executors.
Francis Bavies Sayre, J
Hrvimbzr 6. 2a\V.|V.'
N O T ICE.
j Stockholders of the Bank of the United
A States, are informed that according to the
(latute of Incorporation a general Eledlion for
twenty five Directors will be held attheßink
of the United States in the.Ciry of Philadelphia,
on Mon lay the iirfl day of January ueAt at ten
o'clock in the forenoon.
Ar>d pursuant to the Eleventh feftion of the
Bye Laws tfie Stockholders of t!ie £ai.'l Bank
arc hereby notified to afiemble ir. general Meet
ing at the fame flare on Tucfday the second
day of January next at five o'clock ir* the E
vening.
By order of the Board of directors,
G. SIMPSON, Caihier.
Second fundamental Article.
Not more than three fourths of tne
in office, exclusive ef the President, shall be e
legible for the next fuccceding year, but the
Director wha shall be President at the time ®fan
Elcdlion may always be re-elt-fled.
Philadelphia, nov. 18. 1797. f tE
NOTICE.
To holders of J AMES GREENI.EAF's
and EDIVARD FOX's Engagements
IN consequence of many having been prevent
ed, from late unavoidable circumstances from
obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to former
notice. The Trustees now inform them, they
are ready to ifiue the fame to thafe who may, ap
ply within lixtydays, at No. S Chefnut Street,
and those who do not, will be conßdercd as re
linquishing their claim on the Aggregate Fund
provided for their payment.
HENRY PRATT,
THOMAS W. FRANCI,
JOHN MILLER, JUN.
JOHN ASHLEY,
JACOB BAKE&.
r.tvember, 23. tuth&fios,
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
No. 110 Walnut-street,
INFORMS those who with to recur to the only
me»»is of becoming pcrfed in the French Lan
guage, that he has ju<l opened hi* Library, con
sisting of upwards of 1250 volume*, the best cal
culated to afford either ufeful inftru&ion, or plea
sure. The conditions, together with a catalogue
of the Librwy, may be seen at every bo«H-kller's
in town.
N. e. All translations from and iito the French,
English and Spauifh Languages, executed with »c
---eurac) and dispatch. coim mv. 15.
For Sale by the Subscriber,
White Plattilias
Brown HolUnds
White Sheetings
DowlafTes
Silesia bordered Handkerchiefs
Striped Siajnoufes
Black Ribboria, No. 3 and 4
Glass Tumblers, and Looking GlalTei, in
in cases, &c. &c.
George Pennock.
novmnber 6. eod^w
tor saleT"
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. 55, the corner of Chefnut and Front streets,
A large quantity of Clocks and
Watches. Also, a general assortment of Tools,
Eiles and Materials, confining of Clock Move
ments, eight day and thirty hour brass pinions
and f»rge work; Bells, clock aid watch Dials,
Springs, Hands, Glaflcs, Pumice Stone, Emery,
Rotten Stone, Cat Gnt; bench, (land and tail
Vices; Turns, Fliers,Chains,Seals,Keys, 3tc. Jtc.
* # * Apprentices Wanted.
novembcr 3. ffttutf
The Hiftury of Pennsylvania,
By ROBERT PROUD,
IS now in the press, and will be published,
with all convenient expedition, by Zecha-
Ri AH Poulson, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed proposals, until the
work is ready for the fubferibers.
July aawtf
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than say other in
the City—
OF VARIOUS SIZES,
From 8 by S to 19 by 14,
By the Angle Box or Qaanti'.y, may be had at the
(lore of the Subferibers, cornet of Arcb and Front
it reet,
James C. & Samuel W. Fisher.
Philadelphia, June 9, 1797.
LancaQer, Harrijburgh Carlijle,
Shippenjburg and Sunbury s .
STAGES.
pu,blic are requeued tp take notice, that
JL the partnership which has for sometime sub
sisted between Mrthias Slough of Lancaster, and
William is now difiolved: but, not as M.
Slough infinntesto the public without just cause ;
as will m<»re fully appear by a letter on the fub
je& from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 29th
December Uft. a recital of which is not now deem
ed neceflary. Any gentleman who wilhes to be
more circu*.ftantially informed of the merits of
this business, by applying to W. Geer may have
the perol'al of M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty 1 to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfeftly jnftifiable In attaching him
felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage eonreyancs frost Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
public were pleafcd t» confer on the fir ft effort in
this bufiqefs, William Oecr, in conjunction with
Messrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
to prosecute and carry it on, with every carey at
tention and dispatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can possibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horfos, and every appurtenance to
render the pafiage fafe and commodious, inform
those wm> wi(h to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lanculter, Harrilbnrg,
Cailifie and Shippenfburg, The fare as hitherto
eftablilhed.
For the further accomsr.adation ot the public,
a Siage will start every Wednesday from the honfe
of Samuel Elder v in Harrilbnrg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thurlday,
and return from thcuee and arrive at Harrifbarg
every Saturday, so that passengers deftitted for
Lancafteror Philadelphia, may proceed 00 Mon
days.
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancader, Jan. 27, 1797.
N. B. Thi Line at Stages starts from the
house of William Fervoc, in Lancaftcr, on every
Tueiday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
ceeding to the westward; a»d from the houfc of
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg every Wedrkif
day morning, 6n the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenlburg, : t nd returns
from thence on every Thursday : performing the
fame routine daily as in its tour from Phiiade).
phia. mwf
The printers iutbe Uiurc 1 Starry*'* Keqitr/.'sJ
to injert the followiir Cibfervat WJ in their
papers, by which the-public rjj-ll be served,
as W: ll as their obedient fervanl.
B. Sip:r\nte>idant of
Siate of Maffachufeits.
Bi order of the Unite l States, a Light House
has Keen ere&cd attlie Clay Ponds, on Cape
Cod ; the lamps in which are to he (iglited on
the ifth inll. The light house is ere<£led on,
land elevated about 150 feet, which with the fi
le vatioti ot the Lantern makes the whole lieigfrth
200 feet above high water mark. Ia orderthat
this Light may be diftintruiftied from the 80/ ton
and other Lights en ourcoaft, an Eclipfer is e
reiled, which will around the Lamps
once in 80 fecotiils fo,that the light will be near
ly excluded'fram the eye of the approaching
mariner about thirty'ftc«Hls, in one revoluti
on of the eclipfer. To render the benavolent
designs of Congref; as e.\tenfively ufeful as pof
lible, the Marine Society in Boston, by a hrge
Committee from their body, whole views have
been seconded by others, have taken such dil
tances and hearings as tliev thoigVt necessary ;
which obfervatioria giving light aad fafety are
added for the benefit of all iaferefted—and are
as follows
Vtflels outward brund, from Boston I.ight
houfe, and would with to fall in with Cape-Cod
the tourfeisE. S. E. distance 15 leagues, thence
3 leagues to the Light house. When up with
the L'ght-houfe and it bears S W 2 leagues dis
tance, you then • steer S S E which will carry
yov. out of the south channel.
Vessels inward bound, and fall in with the
back of Cape-Cod, bring the Light to bear S W
a leagues distance, then you may steer YVNW
tor BofloO Light-House.
If you you would wilh to go into Cape Cod
harbor, you may keep the Ihore aboard about
a mile distant, where you will have 10 flthomj
water. Th|re it a bat lies off the back of the
Cape, about half a mHe from the (hore.
When up with Kace-point. which is very
bold, and about three leagues to theweftward «f
the Lifht-houfe, and maybe known by a num
ber of filh houfti on it, from I to 3 miles to
the fouthvard ot Race-point, is what is called
Herring Cove, where you may have good an
«horfng half a mile from the (hore, the wind
frohi E to N N E in 4 or even 3 fatlu»m water.
If bound into Cape Cod harbor, your course
from Race-point to Wood end, i< S S E 6 miles
distance, bring the light to bear E by N and
run for it about two miles, you will then he
clear of Wood end—then you must steer N E
until the light bears E by S— then run N W
f#r the harbor, unffl you have from 4 103 i-»
fathoms water, where you have good anchor
ing, the Light then will bear Eby S i-a S5 or
6 miles distance.
In running from the Race point to Wood
End—after you pass the Black Land or Hum
• mucka, you will come up with a lew fapdy
beach, which forms the harbor; extending Ue
twsen i and } i»iles to Wood-end, which is
difficult to be distinguished in the night—lt it
very bold—you will have fathom water
within half a mile of the ihore.
In beating into Cape-Cod harbor, you must
keep the eastern Ihore aboard, until yau get in
to 5 fathom water. Stand no farther to the
westward than to bring the light to bear E by S
as there U a long spit of land runs aiffrom the
western Ihore, which being very bold, you will
have 11 fathom water within a flonee throw of
Store.
In cafe it blows so hard that you cannot beat
in the harbor, you will have good anchoring
without, from 10 to ij fathom water.
Vessels in Boston bay and would wilh to put
away for Cape Cod harbor, must endeavor to
fall in with the Race. If in the night, and you
cannot fee the land, you must bring the Light
to bear E by N and run for it until you have
foundings in 14. or 15 fathom water, then steer
north call until the 'light bears E by 6 then . un
in N W for the harbor.
At full and change, it ii high water cffßace
Point at 10 o'clock and 43 minutes. Vessels in
leaving C»P e Cod bound to Boston, fliould cal
culate the tide, at the flood sets strong to the
south welt.
JOHN FOSTER WILLIAMS, ") Commit te
M ATHANIfL GOODWIN, ( from the
JOHN CRUF*,; r Marine
JOHN HILLS. ' J Society
THOMAS BARNARD, A branch Pilot
for the port of Boflon
SOLOMON COOK, 7 Residence at Pro-
ELIJAH NICKERSON, ) vmcetonCapeCod
At a Meeting of the MatTne Society, held at
Concert Hall, on Trfefday ;th Nov J797 —the
above Report of its Committee was read and
approved and ordered to be publilhed.
By order of ihe Society,
THOMAS DENNIE, President.
WILLIAM FUR NESS, SW'ry,
City of Washington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Fedetal City.
A magniUcenulwellmg-houfe so,ooo dollars,
& cash 30,000, are jo,oo:>
1 ditto if,ooo & cafl» i.f,00» 40,00(4
1 ditto ij,ooo & calh 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 it calh 10,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & calh 5,000 10,000
z ditto 5,000 & calk 5,000 io,()roo
1 calh prize of ro,ooo
» do. 5,000 each,
10 do. 1,000 - - jo, 00c
30 do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
too do, 50 10,000
400 do. 15 ' - io,opo
1,000 do. 10 - io,ooo
15,000 do. 10 - 150,000
16,7.39 Prizes.
33,161 Rlanlw.
50,000 Ticketi, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. Tofavour thofpwho may take a quan
tity of Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but one :
And approved notes, fecuwng payment incither
mon«y or prites, in ten dayt alter drawing, wiU
be received for iny4l%inter not left than 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of
the private {nulAin,^co be ertiled in the City ol
Walhirgtce—Two .-beautiful designs are already
; Icle&cti ioi the enure Ironts on two of the public
ftfuares; from tbefe drawing it ispropofed toereil
two centre and r o»r career baildings,as soon anpoi
fible after this lottery isfold, and to convey them,
when complete, t® the fortunate adventursrs, ir
the manner described in the scheme for the Hctel
Lottery. A nett dedu&ion of five per tent, will
be made to defray the necessary cxpctifes of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a patt of
the fund intended for the National r?ive'riity, to
be erected within the city of Walhingtoa.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the
Prizes, are by the President and two DiretH
ors of the Gar.k of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount of the lottery.
S.IMUEL BI.ODGHT.
,5, Tickets may be had at the Back ot Colsm
hia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Fcter
Oilman, Bofion • of John Hopkins, Richmpnd ;
and of Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry. hiwj
ej* St. Andrews' Society.
r T' , HK Members of St. Andrews' Society, will
Jb pleas« to take notice, that as their Annivcr
f iry happens tfcs year on a Fast Day, to be obferv
cd by »n order of the Synod of Philadelphia, to
which community many of tho members belong;
it is therefore judged proper to defer the Celebra
tion thereof, until Friday, tha firil of December,
at O'Sllers' Hotel.
The members are rcquefled to apply fbf tickets .
ot admilliou «o any of the afliftants, viz. iVlcffrs.
Thomas Leiprr, Gavin H imilton, jun. James Hen
derfon, Pobert Hcnderl'on, William H.Tod;£lcj.
orJDr. Andrew Sp°,nce.
The officers are deSrjd to attend at one
dinner to be on the table at three.
By order of the Boari,
RICHARD 1. KE, Secretary,
novem'oer 24. dc 1D
" WJRTYaIe, '
By the Subscriber, at his .Store, No. 75, South
Water-street,
A general affortmsnt of China
Ware
Black and coloured Sattirs \
Do. do. Luteftri«£*
Do. d». Handkerchiefs
Do. do» sewing Silks
Imperial and Hyson Teas
Long and (hort Nankeens
Quicksilver, in tubs
Holland Gin, in pipe®
Afforded CJlafs Ware, in cases
White and brown Havanna Sugars, in boiies
in h®g(licad»
St. Croix Rum and in do.
London particular Madeira Wine
Sherry and Malaga Wines, in quarter caikj
Red, yellow and pale Barks, in chcfts.
Logwood, &c. &c.
7.—tu&f<w * JOSEPH SIMS.
From Marseilles.
THE CARGO
OF (he Swcdilh barque Gtiftavus Adolphus,from
Marseilles, confilting of the following articles,
is difchergine at Mr. Latimer's wharf, and for
sale by the fubfciibcrs
BRANDY, well flavored, of i, 5 & 4th proof
Claret, in
Ditto, in cases
Frontigniac Wine, in cases of 30 bottles
Olive Oil, of afupsrior quality, in bafcets of 6
and tt bottles
Captrs
Olives
Almonds
Dny Verdigreife
Writing Paper
Umbrellas (Silk) of 28, 3c and 3J inches
Taffeties
Long and (hort white KM Glows for W«men
Silk Stockings
Handkerchiefs, in imitation of Madrafi
Artificial Flowers and Garlands
Ostrich Feathers
Ribbons
Perfumery
Scented Hair-Powder and Pomatum
Manna in forts
Cream Tartar.
BENJAMIN MORGAN &
ROBERT ANDREWS.
September 17. . cots
Lately Published,
In «ne vol. 8 *®. (pries one dollar" in boards) fold
by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of Second and
Chefnut streets,
A ColleAion of Papers on the fubj«st of
Billious Fevers, prevalent in the United
Statea for a few years past.
Compiled by NOAH WEBSTER, jun.
Containing letters from Uoflors Seaman, Smith,
Buel, Taylor, Kamfay, Monfon, Reynolds, Miuk
el],on contagion, itc. &c.
Sept. if.
Erfkioe's View of the War.
JUST PUB LIS HE Q,
By ROBERT CA&tTBELL & Go.
No. 40 South Second flreet,
[Price 31 Cents j
A View of the Cau/es and Consequen
ces of theprefent War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Cjiskine.
May 15 $
STATE TRIALS.
Sold b W.Young, BookMler, No. ,51, South Se
cond-ftrec',
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
CONtaining the inrpeachmsnt, trial,and acouit
al of Francis Hopkinfan, Judge of the Court of
Admiralty, and John Nicholfoo, Comptroller Gen
eral—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, 3
dollars.
W. Young has for sale, a general afTortmentof
Boolt«. Also, Stationary, retail and by the pack
ege, well aflorted, and entitled to the drawback if
aspafted. July 7—*
For Sale,
That well known place, railed VjHDE<nur , s
f ? r r y,
ON Nelhaminy cresjc, 18 miles from Phi
ladelphia, on the .Nc«r York post road,
containing 74 acre 6 and 94 perches. Upon the
premifesarea large two Itory stone house occu
pied as a tvern, and a good one story Hone kit
chen, a large frame liable with agocdthrcfliinp
floor, and fope out buildings—also a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
this place Is a moll elegant lltuatipn foragentte
man's feat, commanding a view of the Nefham
iny toits jundlion wiihthe Delawaie, and thence
aci-ofsto the Jersey Ihore. it has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the S»tfcribcr,
MORDECA! LEWIS.
May, 24.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBKIDGE with much pleal
ureand returns her sincere ac
krtowlcdgemcnt for the liberal encouragement
(he h3s received during four years refldenae in
Philadelphia; and allures her friends and the
public, so far from intending t > decline her
school, Ihe has made a liipenor arrangement for
the more convenient ac-LQrrimodjtiou of her
scholars. —Every branch of ufeful arid polite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Gmombridge and mailers excelling in their
refpeiSive proMions-
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June ?tfr, 179.7-
The situation is pprfeflly liealtky ; and made
more agreeable by an cxtenfivc garden and lot
of ground adjoit'«ng the houle.
Jujt Published,
And to be had of fckffrs. Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the ether pricipal liookfellers in the,
city .price one dollar, twmty-five cents,ir boards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
Ey BENJAMIN SMITH CARTON, m.c.
June ic. *4'
R E M OV A L.
Maurice Moynihan,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he
has removed his Store of China, Glals, Queens
Ware, and Dry Goods, from No. 81 North Se
cond, to No. 71 North Seventh Srreet, north east
comer of Cherry Alley, where he solicits the fa
vor of his former cuflomers.
N. 13. Crates put up cace at the ihorteft
"notice.
November z. dt£
|l. .. ■. i.
Real Estate for Sale, ./
PLANTATION, in a healthy and good si-
L X. tuatlon on Chester Creek, in Middletou
Township, Delaware County, containing lI9J
acres, upwards of 50 acres of which are wood
land, well timbered ; the remainder plough land
and watered meadow—of the latter, uiany more
j acres can be made at a small expence. There art
! on said pr?mifes, a good orchard of bell grafted
iruit, a house, with a spring near the door, aframe
barn with {tabling under, and a log jenemsnt oa
one part of said place. Any per foil inclining
to purthafe, may view the premises by applying
to Wm. Pennbll, on said farm, and know the
£rms by applying to Jonathan Peknell, io the
to rough of Cheiler.
B november 11. 3t eod
Philadelphia, Oft. 13.
THE fubferibers inform their friends and cuflo
mers in town and country,that their ftoresare now
open in the city, and others arc dai'y opening, and
that from the present appearance ©f the prevailing
disorder have reason to hope, their friends may
shortly come to the city with perfect faf< ty. By
several late arrivals, number* have received frefl*
supplies of GOODS.
Robert Smith CS* Co. P. IV. Gallaudet & Co.
John Davis iff Co. Sitgreaves & Frev*h%
A'ciM & Smith, George Dobfon, '+
IViltberger and Smithy Thomas Ryer/onf
Alex Bit/land and Co. T. R. Hardenbtrg.
Jacob Sperry and Co. John Smith and Co' N
Owen £3* Jona. Jones, Thomas Orr,
Keppele C? Zantzinger, William Barker iy Co.
si dam Zantz'.nger> Thotnas sir mat ly Son.
John Fries, J. Miller 9 jun. and Co.
Benjamin iff J. Jebnfon.
P<ft. 14
POYNTELL's T
Pjper Hangings Manufactory,
No. 70, Chefnut-llreet,
'' IVbt-re be has for Sale,
AVERY extensive stock, cf every colour, and
of the mo(t approved patterns, suitable for
every part of a house, with great variety ui bor
ders to suit.
—-ALSO
A handsome afibrtment of the most faftionable
Silver Grounds London and Pari* Papers, and 1
vej-y best p'&in Green and plain tiW,
With PawiclP-pers and a rich variety of Borden.
November 1. eo6t
Will be Landed,
Fwm oa board the ship Aftive, Capt. Blah,from
Hambutgb,
20 baW» white Ruflii clean Hemp
a cases Clover Seed
For Sale by
Thomas Herman Leuffer,
North Fifth street, No. 14.
June 26. $
Imported inthefhip Manchester,
Benjamin Swiv/kll, Matter,
From Bourdeaux, and for sale by the fubferiber,
No. 11 Walnut Street.
Boordeaijx Brandy
Irish market claret in cases Entitled ta
Modoc wine, in do. Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do.
Thomas Murgatreyd.
"WHO HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter casts
Rota do. , do.
Pimento in bagt
4000 bulhfls Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stf-
Peale's Museum.
THIS valuable repository of the works of Njw
ture, so well calculated to delight the mind
and enlarge the undrrflanding, is opened daily, as
ufuhl. It ilands in an airy and healthy fituarion,
and free from the epidemic that at present affli&s
the city; it may, therefore, be frequented with
the greatcft fafcty.
As an Ait» <fcment, the study of Nature Is the
moft'rational and plealing : as a Science, the most
fublinie and infiru<flive. It elevates the mind and
expands the h*art. They
44 Whom Natureworks can sharrn, idttb Ged bhifeif
" Mold co/ivetje
Many icter.-fling additions have lately been
made to. this Muleum : and the feathered tribe,
containing a variety of' the most rare and beautifwl
fubje&s, is now very advautageoufly arranged,
r Waxen Figures, of Vlen large as life (lome
calls from nature) are here dressed in their proper
habits, and placed in attitudes chara&erietic of their
refpe&ive nations. Here may,be fcea the North-
American Savage, and the : .av£ge of South-Ameri
ca—a laboring Chinese, and the Chinefc Gentle
man—the sooty African, and the Kan:tf»ludale
with some Natives of the South Sea Ifiands. The
immense variety and interesting diversity which
this Mufeura offers to the view, may befeuriUit
cannot be described with full efTtf cSI.
.£/* Price only l-4th cf a dollar.
Seyt. aB. law
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 319, High-Street.
GEORGE DA VI S,
BEING busied for some time past in prepara*
tions for removing into his present houfe,has
been under thcneceflity of pollponinguntil this day
informing the gentlemen oftheßar generally thro'
the United States, that his lpring importation of
law booh* h now arranged and ready for (ale, on
terms that he trutts will entitle him to the like pre
frtence he has experienced for leveral years ptft.
Catalogues, combining the moll varied coJlec
tionev.r imported this country, are printed
and will he.delivered on application*
June a.7. jaw
Boiton Glass Manufactory.
citizens of the United States are hereby
informed v that the manufa*Slure of Window
G'afs is now commeueedftt the Glafslioufe in Bcf»
ton.
It is rcedlcfp to any thing of the excellent
quality of the Boston Ghfs, as it is so well known
throughout the United States to be in every re/pcA
greatly superior to anv ever imported from Europe,
It will be cut to any fizc commonly used ; and
may bo constantly had hy applying to Charles F.
Kupfer, at the Glass House.
Orders from the distant States io be addressed to
Mr. Samuel Goiie, Court-street, Boston.
Boston, Sept 30, 1797 O 4 —2aw6w
M'JJrs. Timothy and Mafon y Charleston Mejfrs.
Hodoc and Boylan, Halifax, N. C. Mejfrs. Willett
and o'Connor, Norfolk ; Mr. Ellis Price, Alexandria ;
Mcffrs. T;:»it and fir civ/:, Ball'viwc ; Mr. Hopihu,
Ne if -Tori: ; and j\£rj)'rs. Hudson & C cod-urn, Harf
ford; Mr. 4scy/nour> Swannab ; arc reqjcjlcd to inffri
the once a zveek ( 'ixkih. Tbe aunt-t. to he for*
war c.\d tb< lid/tor.