of the & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Ni'M3SR 1478'.]
„jr"Nv. Fo r Sale or Charter, h
The Siiocr.tr
Fair American, £
Virginia toQt—tarth'n a'xjut 7oc barrels flour— t ]
two ysatT9 olJ—an4 can befsiit to Tea immediate y. J
7 boniiis y Jojhua Fifier, t '
No. 5» Do:k-ftr<ct. n
Tv*tay 19 ■ rw 0
For Sale 0/ Charter, c
the ship b
warren, d
j ■ Benjamin Church, Mafler. F
j ■ V|T ; 'IC r : OF about 183. tOf-s burthen. Ell- t,
.V.gaTjfflat • quire of O
7'effe ts 3 Robert Wain- v
May 16 S c
— c
John Tarris, matter.
A GREAT part of her cargo is engaged, and
(he will fail-in ten days. For freight or pal- e
Imc apply to'capt. Tarris, at Willings & Frauds t
wharf; or to GURNETS. SMitH. c
May 25 $ r
For London,
y Tuc (hip
WILLIAM PENN, I
'firsts 'fosiAH, Mjftcr. (
WILL fail with ?-!l convenient fpted. For j
freight or pafiage apply to
JeJfe tsf Robert Wain.
May 19 § ' j.
For Freight- or Charter, |
To any part of Europe-,
]|§88!!- Alexander Magnus, .
Capt. Carl O. Ehsman, a
A BOUT 3<o'tbni burthen, in this port ; and t
also the Danish Ship FREDERICK JULIUS f
KAUS, of 450 tons, QOVVlying/m Hampton Roads.
Apply to JOHN VAUGHAN. I
May IA. tuthffit I
For Sale, • v
The cargo of the brig Enterprise, Captain 1
Langdon from Boiirdcaux, now landing at t
. Morton's -wharf, '
CONSITISC ®F
514 Hhds. of Claret 2
it; cases o£ditto -a r
JOO c-.fes of Oil %
UO pipes London proof .1 BRANDY . | £
10 pipes of Holland ptpof y J w
Apply to (
Wharton ?5f Lewis, j
No. IK, South Front St. 1
j—t Said Brig, 1
WILL take a FREIGHT for <
theWeft-Jndiesor Enrope,fails t
frJl faft, burthen about fifteen hun- 5
dred barrels, is in complete or- ,
flcr, ar.d will be raady to receive a cargo ma j ]
few days ,
Apply as above.
May u L_ '
PennfylvaniaPopulation Company. ,
XT OTICE is hereby givtn to the Share Hold-
Pn that a further aOeffsnem of nine dol- :
l AR s is levied on each share, payable as follows,
viz.
Six Dollars immidiarely, and
Three Dullars on the lftof Jaly next.
Which they are requested to pay to the Treasu
rer of the Cotnpany, at the Company's Office,
fJo. North Fourth-street, agreeably to the
times above mentioned ; and they are further
informed, that 6n their neglefling to pay the
fatne as above directed, the fevtral forfeitures
will be exafled.
By order of the Board,
SOL. MARACHE, Trelfurer.
May 17.
PHll A DE LP HI A,
SATURDAY EVENING, JUNE 3.
A CHARGE,
delivered to the Grzmd Jury of the United
States, for the Diftrift of Virginia, in the
Circuit Court of tfie United States, held at
Richmond, May z2d, i 797» by >
y/IMES IREDELL,
one of the aflbciate Judges of the Supreme
Court of the United States.
/ PvVjJktd at the riqurfl of the Grand-Jury.)
[Concluded from Thnr ftlay s Gazette,]
Confederations like these are calculated to
jmprefb upon the mind that salutary caution
with which all public measures ought to be
difcuiTed. If it be a point of duty or jtlf
tice we need enquire no farther : Policy is
.out of the question. The duty must be
performed. Juitice must be fatished, at all
rifques. Men would be forever unjust, and
morality would be a name, if exceptions
were once admitted upon any principlewhat
ever, to a ftridt obfervar.ee of it. If a fub
jeft of policy is in question, nothing affords
greater room for real differences of opinion.
The wisest mtn, with the belt motives, have
been always divided on such questions, and
always will be—because nothing is more fal
lible tlun human judgment when it extends
its views into a futurity, for the greatest
part, so impenetrably hid from the fight of
man. All political measures must be groun
ded on such views, and consequently must
partake of the imperfection of the grounds
'on which they are adopted. Diffidence,—
therefore, as to any point of policy, is be
coming the ablest men, and they are gene
rally tTi.' best disposed to entertain it. Some
mode of decision however must take place.
Can we desire abetter than that it (hoi/Id be
such a decision as the people themselves
PHILADELPHIA: SATURDAY EVENING, JUNE 3, 1797.
have deliberately thought heft adapted to p
the cafe i It is indeed, as well as all other b
political fubjefts, a natural and proper ob- n
jest of their review. For their own fake, ii
that review ought, to be conduced with a
temper and moderation, left they (hould b
themselves fuffer by a precipitate and erro- o
neous judgment. Before they condemn any c
one measure, where some measure was net
ceflary, they ought to be very sure that a v
better could be adopted. None can be a- il
dopted without some inconveniences. Few d
perhaps, without some advantages. It is t
1 the part of wisdom to weigh one against the d
other, and decide in favor of that measure t
where the advantages are greatest, the in- a
conveniences feweft. other mode of f
considering great questions of public policy ii
is idle and inlignificant. If after all, any f
individual disapproves of the voice of his v
country, what does duty and common mo- e
defty require of him ? To be perfeftly con- o
fident he is right in his opinion, and those n
entrusted to decide are wrong ? Who is c
the man entitled to so arrogant an estimation 11
c-f his own abilities ? Is he rashly to deter- a
miae, that the measure has been adopted v
from some dishonest motive ? What right f
has any one man to cliarge another with dif- v
honesty without proof ? Let him prove & r
punish if he can. If he can do neither, but
will indulge in atrocious calumny, he must i
stand in the view of his fellow citizens as a 1
slanderer, and incur the suspicion, that his y
readiness to fufpeft others of dishonorable a
intentions has probably arisen from some- j
thing in the texture of his own mind which r
led him to ascribe worthless motives as tse f
most natural inducement of aft ion. The c
part, surely, for every man who loves his {
country, but who disapproves of any public c
authoritative decision, is to submit to it f
with diffidence and refpeft, considering the i
many chances there are that his own opinion r
may be really wrong, though he cannot c
perceive it to be few—that whether it be or a
not he does not live in a despotic govern- i
ment where any one man's opinion, not e- r
ven his own, is to decide for all others ; and i
that the very basis of all Republican Gov- a
ernments in particular is, the submission of a f
minority to the majority where a majority i
are constitutionally authorised to decide.— c
For a man to call himfelf a Republican, r
without entertaining this sentiment, is folly, t
To be one, without afting upon it isiimpos t
fible. v
Since, therefore, the plainest diftates of t
duty, and the principles of republicanism it- t
felf, which, in their due application, enno- e
ble the human njind, though nothing can
more disgrace it than the abuse of them, re
quire of us all to obey the laws of our coun
try, it is incumbent_on us to take care that
an obligation so important be not rendered
merely nominal, but that every individual
I (hall perfoimhis (hare of the common trust,
or answer for his negleft of it. Many in- 1
stances of negleft or indifference towards it, |
which may have great effects on the happi- j
nel"s of his country, are of a nature not i
punishable by human laws, and the punish- I
ment of them therefore, must be left to the <
conscience of the individual, and the re
proach which a violation of the rules of mo- <
rality, though unaccompanied by any hu- I
man fanftion, seldom fails to draw upon it. 1
There are, however, others of so serious a '
nature, and fcr direftly tending either to
destroy or injure the society at large,, that
laws are provided by it for their puni(hment,
and without such laws, and a due execu
tion of them, no society could subsist, for an "
idea that all men will support voluntarily
any government howeverexcellent, or chear
fully obey any laws however wife, is ridicu
lous. But as it is of great moment to es
tablish some laws containing penal fanftions,
so it is also of the highest importance that
the execution of these (hould be s provided
for in such a manner as to secure as much
as possible the conviftion only of the guilty,
leaving innocent nothing to fear. The mode
of prosecution so long adopted in our coun
[ try, probably contains thrs security in its
: utmost extent. Accusation of one injury—
t trial by another—the trial being altogether
public—witnesses adduced face to face—the
prisoner under no restraint but 'from mere
: confinement—challenges to a considerable
number, in all capital cases, to set aside ju
) rors even for momentary dislike. The jury
not being a permanent, but an occasional
body, liable to be affefted either as mem
-5 ber6 of the community, or as individuals who
1 may be fubjeft to a similar prosecution, by
? their own precedents. All these circum
" stances probably provide as great a security
9 for innocence as is compatible with avoiding
e a total impunity for guilt. With us
happily this is no theoretic speculation.
None of us can remember a tirte when these
s privileges were not in a great degree familiar
•" to us. So familiar" indeed, that knowing
'* scarcely any thing of opprefiive prosecutions
s but from the history of other countries, we
l " are too apt to undervalue this inestimable
e bleffmg in our own.
To you, gentlemen, are committed pro
'* fecutions for offences against the United
' s States. The objeft is the preservation of a
union, without which undoubtedly we
(hould not now be enjoying the rights of an
independent people, aud without the sup
port of which it is in vain to think we can
' 8 continue to enjoy them. This counfry has
great energies for defence, and by support-
E " ing each other might defy the world. But
e " if we disunite, if we fuffer differences of
le opinion to Corrode into enmity, jealousy to
c * rankle into distrust, weak men to delude by
>e their folly, abandoned men to disturb the
es order of society by their crimes, we must ex-
By John Fenno, N° il9 Cbefnut Street.
pest nothing but a fate airuinoasis itwould '■
be difgraceful, that of'inviting some foreign i
nation to foment and take advantage of our 1
internal firft making us the dupe 1
andthen the prey of ah ambition we excited 1
by our divisions, and to which those divifi- i
ons, if continued, must inevitably give fuc- '
cefi. So critical and peculiar is our fitua- <
tion, that nothing can save us from this as
well as every other external danger, but con- '
ilrtnt vigilance to guard against even the most |
distant approaches of it, andbcShg at all 1 '
tifnes ready to provide adequate rtieans ps 1
defence. Our government is so formed, — '
that that vigilance can always be exerted, <
and those means, when necessary, be drawn
forth. To rely upon these is not only our 1
indispensable duty, but the only chance of 1
securing that union of spirit and exertion, I
without which in a moment of danger no 1
efforts can be of any avail. For twenty- '
one years that union has preserved us thro* 1
multiplied dangers, and more than once res- 1
cued us from impending ruin. I trust it will 1
still display itfelf with its" wonted efficacy,
and that no tlireats, no artifices, no idle de- 1
votion to names without meaning, <y to pro- 1
sessions without sincerity, will be capable of ;
weakening by any impression on a sensible 1
people a cement essential to their existence. '
I deliver this general address, not know- '
ing of any particular offences likely to come 1
"before you. The sentiments have flowed '
warmly from my heart, and I flatter myfelf
are not uncongenial to your own. The
present fituatiou of our country is such as
requires the exertion of all good men to 1
support and save it. I enter into no parti- '
culars, as the Legislature of the United 1
States are now assembled, and for whose de- ,
cifion every worthy citizen must wait with
solicitude and refpeft. Tn the mean time it
is of the utmost confequcnce that every
man should sacredly obey the laws of the '
ccuntry aftually in being. They cannot be :
altered, nor the observance of them in any
instance dispensed with, without the autho- 1
rity of the: Congress of the United States, '
in any exigence however great, in any situ- 1
ation however alarming. There is no occa- 1
fion to doubt but that the whole proceed
ings of that most refpeftable body, will be 1
condufted with a degree of temper and firm
nefs, suited to the important and trying si
tuation which called them together, and :
that the great objeft of all their deliberations ;
will be, if possible, to preserve the peace, at
the fame time that they maintain inviolably
the honOr, the iritereff, and the independ
ence of their country.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE or REPRESENTATIVES,
Wednesday, May 24.
(Mr. Livingston's Speech ctnduded)
But it is said that Mr. Pinckney probably
had power to negociate upon all their com
plaints ;he thought he had net; he had
powers of this remarkable charafter—" to
remove complaints by Jfiewing they were ground
less !"—rh this the language of inveltigaiion
or of Hardy and faftiditous pertinacity ?—is
it the language of conciliatory power ? But
what does Mr. Pinckney himfelf fay on this
fubjeft:—l am thoroughly convinced that
«' the sentiments of America and its govern
•• ment, for they are one, are mifundeiftood,
•' and that I am not permitted even to at
" tempt to explain them, or, in the terms of
" raiy letters of credence, endeavour to efflice
" unfavorable imprejfwns, to lantfh suspicion s,
«' aud to rrjlore that cordiality which was at
" once the evidence and pledge of a friendly
" union.—Devoted as I am to the liberty,
" prosperity, and independence of my coun
«' try, the freedom, happiness, and perfeft
" establishment of the French republic have
" always been dear to me, and Jo have been
" instrumental in cementing the goad under
" ftandilig, which from the commencement
« ef their alliance has fublifted between the
" two nations, would have been the height
"of my ambition. 1 must fervently piay
" that there may be a fptedy and candid i rives
" ligation of those points in which you differ
" from ad, that affeSlion may banish distrust,
« and that the alliance of the two republics
" may be perpetual." Had Mr. Pinckney
been vetted with any powers which would
enable him to enter upon a candid invejiiga
tion of the points of difference, would he have
thus expressed a with inltead of performing
what he so much desired and would have been
1 his direst duty ; no, his letters were those of
• an ordinary minister, a mere focceffor to the
power of his predeeeffor and 110 more ; and
• therefore another assertion that had been made
; of their refufal to treat was not a faft.
; Another ground, the depredations on our
- commerce; this must be confeffed to be a great
; and just cause of offence ; but it is a cause
■ that cannot itfelf, without applying to nego
r ciation, juftify a war ; in this place he felt it
3 incumbent on him to notice a fingu'arity that
; the sense of dignity and love of justice should
. have so much occupied the mind of the Presi
dent in regard to the French depredations,
- as to shut out all reflection, to suppress all
1 indignation which in the natural order of
a reasoning might have been expefted to be ex
e cited by the depredations of other nations ;
ii Franc* alone appears capable of crimes—to
1- her offerees only are we awakened to
n j of dignity and roused to indignation ■{ over
s I others a Lethean mist is drawn, and an ini
.- tation of the sense and feeling are renderly
t avoided—whence does this emphatic silence
f arise—surely it does not proceed from any
o kindness to us at the hands of Britain —it
y cannot be concealed that Britain kas commit
le ted enormous depredations on our commerce,
[. not perhaps t« the feme extent in ralue as
thofr of Fraiit-e, but surely when the nation
is called to confidcr its Ciuation and to pro
vide forits security, the depredations of Bri
tain were wufrlhy of tie nice ret>irds of na
tional dignity and exreurive pToteftion ; there
is one species of sttrociiy prariifed by that
nation, which France h:s never bean so much
as aceufed of—the impieiTment of mirTeamen
—our citizens have been forcibly ta
ken on board Britilh (hi;is of w*r, and com
pelted to light in a cause which they abhor
red and against a nation to whom they bore j
the bed- grounded affe<3iort j nay, more they t
have been compelled to afiilt in dtpredations \
on their own coustry j another violence which
France has never pretended to offer, is the
declaration of unalienable all»gianee, the seiz
ure of vefiels belonging to petf«ns who have
become citizens of these states since 1783,
and cotififcating them as good prize ; France
has not done either of those a£ts of violence
Upon us, and yet we have heard of no rcnon
ftrance, we are not even told of the indignity
nor alarmed at the humiliation.
He would not impeach gentlemen's mo
tives for their conduft in that House then
any more than on former occasions ; hut at
a time not long finee, attempts were made
to drive members from their right of opinion,
by the terrors of impending war ; while we
exercised an undoubted right to rejedl a trea
ty acknowledged to be bad, and which none
of us even now perhaps entirely approve.—
A pprchenfions were excited and panthoms
raised up to appal from solemn an \ pru
dent deliberation—every terrific image was
employed to display the horrors of war—the
ocean was ieprefe«ted to us as foaming with
the pressure of a thaufand prows ready to dis
gorge upon out shores all the furies and pas
sions of war—the earth was made to groan
with the tramplling of the hosts »f cavalry,
fpreadtng desolation and blood far and wide—
our woods were defctibed as in one immense
immense blaze with the fcalping-knires reek
ed in the blood of our fimpie hufbandmen—
the heavens were depifted as filled with pro
digies and portentious omens, warning us of
our impending danger—aad hell itfelf was
described as already yawning ready to receive
and punilh us for our prodigality and rash
ness, in rouling up the refentraent* 6f an in
dignant nation ! Was it not lingular that
all these chimeras (hould ft foou vanish ?
and now we should be told by the fame per
sons who conjured up these delafive threat
ofngs to shake our opinions, that because we
seek for peace and- negociation we are betray
ing our country and laying at the feet of a
foreign nation : but if it was right and pru
dent at that time to avoid the remote" chances
of those horrors so dismaying, at the immense
faciificeswe made ; is it not much more so
now ? He would beg gentlemen to contrast
the consequences ef< the two chances of w«r
—and to consider that the adoption of the
address, as it stands without the amendment,
most obvionfly leads to war.
He had already fufficiently prov»d that the
alledged refufal to treat on the part of France
was unfounded ; there was yet one other
cause of irritation of which we complained ;
it was the alledged interference of France
between our people and the constituted au
thorities ; what evidence have we of it ; he
would examine the foundation of this allega
tion ; in Mr. Pinckney's letter he
" thus who regard us as being of some eon
" sequence, stem to have taken up an idea,
" that our government a<Ss upon principles
" opposed to the real sentiments of a large
*' majority of our people, they are will
" ing to temporize until the event of the
" election of the President is known, think
'• ing that if one public charafter is chosen,
" he will be attached to the intereftscf Great
" Britain, and that if another chara&er is
" eleited, he will be devoted to the interests
" of France," —and he there proceeds to
they think more humbly of us than
we deserve, they think " that we are regai J
" less of our national chara&er, honer, ar.d
" inierefts, and subjoins these remarkable
" words—" To eredicate this ill conceived
" and unfounded opinion, will be a work of
" time and labor, so greatly have they been
" prejudiced by misrepresentations." So the
opinions entertained by the people of Fianfce,
and these acknowledged by our minister,
actually exist upon the basis of misrepresenta
tion ; do they form a just ground of war ; the
speech of Barras is confiderd as itifuhing, but
(hall gentlemen fay that speech is a just ground
of war ? he confeffed the incivility and the
unfounded nature of the assertions contained
in that speech, but shall we go to war as some
wicked nations have done to controul and
overturn opinion; »re we fuie wu could re
move prejudice or convince the French na
tion or an individual of that nation of its er
ror, by a war ?—a: d what thould we profit
by the effort?— That speech, infuking as it
is, concludes with assurances of good will to
the people of America ; it is rather vemarka :
ble that the representatives of th«" American
people should entertain rcfentmentsbecanfe a
foreign nation has rxpreffed an affedtion for
their condiments !—The American people
and the government are onj, fir, and it is
impossible to divide them ; the American
people have demonstrated to the world their
attachment to the government by an unani
mous obedience to many laws which they have
not approved ; —as well the Batavian
republic declare war againll us for the afper
fionscaft upon it by Mr. Qmncy Adams, our
minister rendent near that republic ; in his
letter th* 4th of November, 1796 to the lew
cretary «n state, he fays—" The genei.il
disposition, even of the patristic party, in this
■ country, lavurs cordially aud lincerely the
, neutrality of the United States"—after tta
; ting bis vpinioc why, he aJds—" Bat at t!i*
fame time the patriotic p-irty can hav' no a•
moxved w.U, diffeient from that which retiy
give fatisfa&ion to the government of France.
'Tbty fee! a dfjxndjnce fa abfoluU and irremova
ble upon their good v*ilt, thu they facrijtce
e'utry other inclination, andJiiencc every other
interefl, when the pleafurc of the French go
vernment \» Jignified to them, in such a man
ner as makes clediion necrffary."—When a
miuifter of ours writes and c-uf, Executive
publilhes such a letter and such infinuationa
as these, it (hould seem a mod exttaordinary
example of iticonfiftency in us to take offence
at the opinions of an agent of the repuhlc for
a similar licentiaufaefs ; csn we wonder when
our miniiler speaks thus comemptuoufly of a
nat'Oh, that othrt-s (hould make use of a
similar freedom with us.
But admitting for a moment that an appeal
had been atfhially made to the people of the U
nited States, and even that an attempt had
been made to obtain influence with the people
contradillmguinied from the government,
wo.uld the government have any thing to fear
from luch attempts —art the people f» little ac
quainted with their own interests and means of
happiness—or have tha government so much to
apprehend from their oieafvrcs, that they could
have to fear an iffje c£ such efforts ; No L ev
ery appeal which-you make to the people the
more you strengthen tl.e hands of the govern
ment . It is in pei fed urifon with the pravfliqe
of all nations to repossess the people 4-ith wfcorn
we are about to negotiate in our favour ; it has
been our own cor.riuft repeatedly, and it ought
to be our condufl now again, we ought by the
propriety and temper of language, and by the
raoft sincere demonstrations of our regard for
our engagements and neutrality to remove the
prejudices which the French people have been
injufioufty led to entertain concerning us ;
our present Prefideut when in the character of
mimtferin Holland found the happy advan
tage which resulted from prepoffeKng that na
tion in our favour ; it was by obtaining the
good opinion of the people thro' the medium
of letters written by him and published with'
his consent, that our revolution derived fiich es
sential support and oar negociations proved so
fuccefsfui; and who will attempt to rob him
of the well merited praise due to his patristic
efforts on that important occasion. It has been
our uniform praitices to make use of appeals
to the people of other nations, and that distin
guished from and in opposition to their several
governments, we appealed to the people of
England, and to the people of Ireland during
our revolution, and we went f» far as to tell
them, of the injustice and oppression of their
own government, and to hope for their ftip
port ; he had lately read as a reason for our
forbearance that the people would take a deci
ded part against hostile measures : he did not
think this reason was founded on any fa&s or
on any basis of declared afld assured evidence,
but in whatever light it might be viewed, k
could not beconfidered as a reasonable ground
for pursuing hostility or provoking it by hostile
language ; however, serious some of the mat
ters in difference between the two republicr
and many of them were obviously trifling, he
thonght the houfeihouid pause before they adopt
expreflions encouraging irritation and provo
king open hostility we should weigh the im
portant queliion whether—if even "all that is
charged agaiuft France is true and unprovoked
on our part, that there i» ftili a poflibility that
we may be compelled to concession, and to re
tra<sl our charges ; in ftifpcnding the balances
of war u e {hould not calculate upon a positive
and inevitable prependeiacy in our favor;
but in the addreft we are tald to adopt Jlron'g
language ; —if we adopt the language of the re
port we shall follow that rash counsel—and the
issue no man could forefee ; —he would there
fore prefer the amendment wjiich difi rrayed our
nleafures ofthat falhion of words only suited to
war ; —hut the amendment was objected to and
upon very lingular and indeed upon contradic
tory grounds, let us examine those objeflions.
One gentleman said it was too humiliating ard
another that it was incorrcll—one opposed it
because it fa d too /ttf/r another because it said
too much —and again one it was ton
mild and another beciufc it was tot Jli ong ; but
one of those gentlemen after expending a vol
ume of breath upon the violent confequencep of
the amendment, at length Gondefcends to qual
ify its vehemence with <4ll if— it is an ufieful
particL-, and he would fay fay with Shakefpear,
" Your if is a great peace maker."
But the great obje&ioij. to this amendment it
that we interfere with the executive declaration ;
and by implication—That we propose three
things, an apology to France, dittate to the
Executive, arid rely 011 France.
To thele he would reply, that no apology is
proposed, and even if tnere were that such a
step would be preferable to a war: to the se
cond he would compsre the strong cafe of the
king of Great Britain, who although an heredi
tary monarch, and pofliffed of the legal righl
to declare war, that it is never done without
previous notification and without a thorough
difcuflion and the delivery of advice from tile
representatives houl'e, when deemed proper ;
justly our conftitutior. does not preclude the re
presentatives of the American people from de
claring their Sentiments on a question involving
their dearest iuterefts ; he did not think i'ueh
arguments could be entertained in that house he
beiievsd the Preflderit hitftfelf desired it, that
he waited for our opinion, and that if we echo
ed his fpr<ch we ft» >uld not afford him that in
formation which he fought; on the third point
a reliance upon France, he woulft not encoun
ter it because it was an airy nothing having no
foundation in the amendment.
Upon the whole, if we reply as is desired
by the report of the committee, we put an end
to ncgociation, because it precludes all discus
sion by infilling on the maintenance of all past
errors; we are therein positively declared to be
incapable «f mistake, ii it not then defirahle to
remove an ofcflacle fatal to free nrgoeijtict.,
which decides by anticipation difcuflion on the
complaints of France, andaffumes the monopo
ly of wisdom and perfeflion the rights of de
manding redress to onrfclvei, is it not indif
penfibly required by. prudence and good sense
that we (hould extricate whatever negociator we
may fend from a dilemma so clumsy aad for
bidding.
One gentlerr.au has difcanted upon the mild
ftvla-of o*r address of lad fsffion, arid he fees,
or thinks he iees, for it is (econ.l fight, iu it the
true cause of the difinifiioa of our minifler
from Francv, and he considers it as roughed in
terms even n:ort humiliating than tho<e of Mr.
J'pjj Utth f Ltrd Qrttrvi'tk, he wi/hed not
[Volume XI.t© '«jfive the painful, err.fmhrtntc cf lis- '
diluting klicr, but he could not refill the im
putation on the address of lift lelfion, Wecatrieii
there w« any humiliation i* ifj the odiumnuil
fill cqrajlv on the Senate, who hid expteffed
idus exactly correspondentbut aliho' he could
not iprte with fhe_gentlrm?n in the humiliating
companion, of the xihfrtl'i with tht. letter allu
ikd to, lie. ibnuld tt:U go £> faraj to acknowl
edge lliat de thought u>e language eftliead
drvfl.i leffion tended to produce the ef
■freti tlie.gentlemin lud. affirmed ; but from a
very d Jferetit tanle—it was .tiic Irrita ing lan
guage of both'that produced it : a,nd it Was on
Jl«irafcOUrfr above others that he was now"
roaipeiU Jto piefer-ttie nihendmeKt to the re
poit, lucmife tie litter wsu ciifitated in the facie
iirjtattQ; ff hit. ' ' ■
A gentleman yefttjrdsy had liked M'herc we
Wcrete 10.111 f.r cur pro/petty—was it in the,
ruined farmer, and merchant.. the fall of pro
duce ahd:iVi£»ati(»n of tride,.' The fair infer
ence f rem tfiit queftioifi was toat our condition
now' wasds bad ias that trf a flste of w.ir—it
means (hit, or it means notliirijrVj—- He would
iherti te a(k tfiit genjienian ihelhtr a war
would rail'e the price of
we (hculd live aa peaceably at heme as w • now
do Wi'if a war protect our Blips, enrich'our
merchants, or htcreafe our trade ? a vvir
produce any ot)< effect "that ioaWVr.alile us to
cenefit Uy tji<frh«i%e ( Every flep toward irri
tation is aftep towards -war, a war of the
ranft ruinops mature,—wh«fe conßquences » «ce
fii various as to be incalculable ; with *<Mhit
eflcrt's hou c-{r feeble i\i themselves, hi \yould
oppofeit—he hid Umfqrnily opp. fed the imcaf
. uies which forefaw anu had at last led
•tiftihis ur.lvn fuitaVe trifit —bur he y»'t' Velied on
the virtue and magnanimity his country would
terminate favorable to our liberty our
;.nd cur natural alliances.
Thursday) June j.
The House agahirefolveditf'.lf into a com
mittee of the whole, Mr. Deut ip the chair,
oil the reported an&ver tP. the Prefideftt's
optech ; -and the chairman having read the
remaining clauses, and no further amend
ment being suggested, a motion was made
for the committee to rife and report the ad
dress with the amendments* which was ac
cordingly done.
The house being resumed, theamendments
were read at the Clerk's table, and after-
Wards the Speaker proceeded to read them,
and to take the sense of the House upon
each.
The firft and second were agreed to with
out opposition 5 but on the third "being read,
viz. the introduction of the following words
into she address, " any feniiments tending to
derogatefrom that confidence ; such sentiments
wherever entertained, serve to evince an imper
fect knowledge of the real opinion of ovr con
jliteentt." •
Mr. Sitcmaves called for the Yeas and
Mays which were taken as follow
YEA S.
Messrs. Baird, Baldwin, Blount, Brent,
Brvan, Cabell, Claiboni, Clay, Clopton,-
Coit, Davis, Dawfon, Dent, Elmendorffj
Evans, Fowler, N. Freeman, Gallatin,
Giles, Gillefpie, Gregg, Hanna, Harrifon,"
Havens, Holmes, Jones,Livingllon, Locke,'
Lyon, Macon, M'Dowell, New, Nicholas,
Parker, Potter, Skinner, S. Smith, W." (
Smith, (Pinckney District,) R. Sprigg,
Stanford, Sumpter, Swanwick, A. Trigg,
J. Trigg, Van Certlandt, Varnum, Venable,
P., WiUiains—4B.
NATS.
Messrs. Allen, Baer, Bayard, Bradbury,
Brookes, Chapman, Champlin, Cochran,
©raik, Dana, Davenport, Dennis, Ege,
A. FoftS, D. Foster, J. Freeman, Glenn,
Goodrich, Gordon, Grilwold, Grove, Hart
ley, Hindman, Hofmer, Imlay, Kittera,
S- Lyman, Machir, Matthews, Morgan,
Otis, Reed, Rutlcdge, Schureman, Sewall,
Shepherd, Sinnickfon, Sitgreaves, Jeremiah
Smith, N. Smith, W. Smith, (Charleston,)
Thatcher, Thomas, Thompson, Van A
len, J, Williams—46.
The fourth amendment, which was of
a triftiag nature, was agreed to ; but on
the amendment introduced by Mr. Day?
ton, being read, Mr. Williams proposed to
add the wordjujllce in one part of it ; but,
Mr. W. Smith said - he Ihould propose.
an amendment, which he fujjpofed would
fupcrccd-' the cfie moved by by Mr. Willi
ams. He wifued, instead of directing the
President to any particular meafiire, to make
the expression general, which would remove
nod of the objections to the amendment—
He wilhed to strike out all that followed the
word "'inftitutcd, and to insert nor can -we
'tooflrangly express our f.nctre desire that a mu
tual spirit of juflict and accommodation may
produce a conciliation compatible with the rights
duties astdhonour of our nation
Mr. NiCHOLAsfaidthis amendment was ei
ther a substitute, or the fame as the origin
al motion, which had been decided yester
day. The Speaker having read the motion
declared it to be out of order.
Mr. SitgreavJs said, if the motion just
made was out of order, he (hould make one
which he believed would be in order. It was
to strike out all the words in the amendment
of the committee of the whole from " conci
liation," to the word " exist," and insert
«< jujli:e and" before conciliation.
Mr. Giles said thst this proportion
wcr.t to deftrcy tht amendment altogether.
If they were to fti&e out that part of it
■which went to the placing of France on the
fame footing as other nations, it would be
inferred that they rcfufed to place her in that
situation, and would place her in a state of
outlaw. He wilhed, if gentlemen meant
this, they would declare it.
Mr. Harter thought the alarm of the
gentleman last up perfettly groundlcfs.—
Gentlemen had constantly declared thncir rea
sons for oppofmg the words proposed to be
struck out, was an unvrillingnefs to intffere
with the Executive Authority. They were
not difpofcd to withhold from France what
other geutletnen wilhed to give "her; but
they did net wilh to give" it" her in this way.
If the present motion yrcvailetl, the infer
ence could not be that it was not the wish of
the house topreferve peace ; the Republic of
France would very well underflarid it»
Mr. CotT - ftad'the warquh of the gen
tleman from Virginia had surprized him;'
Mr. C- denied that France could draw any
unfavorable inference firm ar, to
i t'ae prefect piopoiitiin : far laid he, if the
| bird's infeitej on our Journals,
would the gentleman fey it would be reject
ing the Lj.d's PrSyer to expunge it. He
refufed to vote foV the amendment of the
Committee of the whole, because he con
ceived it to be neither Englifb, nor common
Mr. ViNable laid there was no occasion
for warmth. He could suppose no other
view in gentlemen bringingforward the mo
tion, except that they thought the House
would vote fpr-it, without underjlatiding the
drift of it.
Mr. Sis greaves di-l not know that the
understanding of the House would be en
lightened by the explanation which had
been giveu to the motives of the friends of
this motion. He ,fi.lt pcrfedUy indifferent
as to the motives which might be attributed
to him by certain pcrfons. He meant this
proportion .to produce that conciliation
which appeared to be the wifli of everyone.
■All were agreed that some concessions should
be made to France, but there, was a differ
ence of opinion about the propriety of an
interference with the Executive. He tho't
if his amendment took j>lace it would pro
duce the effeft desired ; because, t if any in
equality existed in treaties, it ".would
be removed by this general expression as well
as by a particular one. This was his inten
tion. He did not know how members would
vote-on this occasion ! but he trusted there
were those who wilhed France to have justice
done her, who were also desirous of not in
terfering with the .business of the Executive.
It was to meet the wishes of such gentlemen
that lie introducedthis amendment. If this
fentirr.ent was not adopted, he (ho*ld vote
against the answer to the speech of the Presi
dent which fiiouldcontain the fentiroent intro
duced by" the amendment of the committee
of the whole.
Mr. M'Dowell said, that after having
difcufled this nearly a fortnight,
and they had come to a vote upon it, an at
tempt was now made to set aside that vote
in an indireft way, instead of meeting it in
an open manner. He (hould have been bet
! ter pleased with gentlemen if they had em
ployed a part of the time which oc
cupied in talking about .thepowers of the Ex
ecutive in enlightening him with refpe&tothe
rights cf that house. Tltey had been told they
ought not to doubt the wisdom of the Exe
cutive ; he would do what was right, but
he believed the President waited for, and ex
pe£led the opinion of tbat house. <
Mr. Nicholas said, if lie understood the
amendment of the gentlemen from Pennsyl
vania, the constitutional principle which had
been so much talked of, would be as much
infringed, if this passed, a? if it flood in its
present form. Hp fyw no difference as to
. the Executive, than this, that by an ambi
guous, general expression, their meaning
might not be understood-
Mr. Dana said he,wjs opposed to the
amendment ; for it might be that it might
bf necessary tp make concessions to France
which justice did not require,,but which the
interest of our country might. Mr. D. said
they were possessed of two descriptions of
rights, viz. rights of Sovereignty, and rights
"which were obtained by virtue of treaty.—
.They proposed to fay to the President, in
this address, " we will never surrender our
rights as a nation but he did not know
that it would be for the good of the coun
try, that they should maintain all that they
possessed by treaty, and therefore he did not
wish to insist upon it. And he considered
this address as pledging themselves to pre
serve all our other rights, which he thought
it proper at this time to do, especially as
they had been called upon by the President
for the purpose. The objeft of this address
was, therefore, to allure the President how
far he might rely upon them ; but, if an
amendment like that which was now propo
sed to be displaced, was not agreed to, the
Executive mighj, suppose the House pledg
ed to do more than they intended to do.—
He thought the House had a constitutional
right thus to speak, because they had the
right to declare war, which gave them this
right.
Mr. Potter said he voted against the a
ment in the committee of the whole, not
because he did not wi(h to put France upon
the fame footing with other nations ; but
because he not wish to give up the ground
of recovering redress for the spoliations com
mitted upon our commerce. • The fame rea
son would induce him to vote for striking
out the words now proposed to be struck
out. He thought the® had been much un
necefljry debate on this fubjeft, about
French*par.ty. and Engl'fh party. For his
part, he (hould like such an address bed -as
(hould mortify both the mod.
Mr. W. Smith repeated his reasons for
oppofmg the amendment in committee of
the whole,?nd was of opinion that the thing
was not clearly understood by its friends.
The committee of the whole having, howe
ver, declared, that France should be placed
upon the fame ground with other nations, he
saw no ocCalion for carrying the matter any
farther, by inferring it in the address to be
presented Jo the President. He "thought
the matter might very well reft here, and
introduce the words " mutual spirit and jus
tice" into the address. If theymuft, how
ever, suggest to the executive, he did not
think th<y ought to confine themselves to
making concelhons to France. Indeed it
was contradictory to speak of mutual con
ciliation, and propose nothing to be done
by France. If gentlemen insisted on this
amendment as puffed he (hould
think it his duty to propose that France
(hould be called upon to do juftice',' by in
ferring, I' and a disposition on the part of
France to redress the injuria committed against
:ht United Statec."
Mr. S. Smith charged the gentleman
just set down with repeating the fame ob
• £crvatiops over and over again. Mr. S. de
nied that the privilege of coming into Our
ports with their; prizes was any longer fer
.viceahle to the French, ficce they were not
permitted to fell th«m. Under thefc cir
cumffances, hs laid, the French <rould nol
bring their prizes into our ports. Did
Great Britain, he alked, keep her treaty in
refpeft ?No ; (he did not. It was true
(he did not bring her prizes into our sea
ports ; but (he brought them into our riv
ers and bays, and then sent them to Halifax.
But, becaufethe French had come upon our
coast with some veils'of war, it had been
accounted a very extraordinary thing-r-tho*
the Biitilh (hips of war are eonftantly on
our coast. Indeed, he-said,< they had just
taken the brig Liberty, ■from Philadelphia,
and a fthooncr from Baltimore which he
saw with pleasure set fail) laden with fornc
families, chiefly old women 'aad children,
who were returning Lome to Cape Frailcdis,
which were sent into Halifax. The vessels
of the Britilh keep pofleffion of one of the
mouths of our rivers, and yet we are not
surprised atit, because we are used to it j but
because one or two vessels are taken by
French privateers, we are greatly surprized.
He was far from juftifying the conduit of
the French ; but he was not for making
wai" upon them, on account of what tl»ey
had done, because he believed the French
government would disavow many of the in
juries which had been committed against us.
He vindicated neither nation j both had in
jured our commerce, and entrenched upon
our rights. The Britilh, said he, oblige
our. vessels passing in or out of the Chefapeak,
to ilovfe their colours ; yet thi3 nation lately
made a • treaty with us ! This was not an
agreeable thing to Americans, but they
were obliged to submit to it. He mention
ed thfffe things to (hew that France was not
Angular la her aggreflions towards thiscoun
"7*
Mr. Baldwin repeated his objections to
the report which he made yelterday, in order
to (hew the propriety of disagreeing to strike
out the words in queilion.
Mr. Otis did not think it necessary to
go into a comparative fltw of the outrages
committed against the commerce of this
country by the British and French. He be
lieved the house was tired of such repeti
tions : The gentleman from Maryland had
told them that the British had teken a car
go of old •women. Tl\e French army and
conventions had been introduced amongst
them by turns, and now the gentleman had
brought forward the old <women ; whatever
effe& the former might have upon their de»
bates, he knew of none this cargo could
produce.-—The question, he said, was now
reduced to a narrow compass, viz. to a pro
position to insert general words, in the place
of particular ones. Both were intended to
have the fame effe&, and the object of the
present amendment was to produce concilia
tion. It had been insinuated that gentle
men who voted for the amendment of yes
terday, could not'vote for this, but he tho't
they might with propriety do it, and by
thus acting, escape the danger of encroach
ing on the duty of the executive. It had
been relied upon, that because the legisla
ture had power to declafe war, ergo, this
house has a right to decide Upon what terms
it will be willing to declare war. He did
not think the constitution ever intended such
a dialogue to be held with the executive ;
for the hoyfe of representatives and senate
might disagree, and therefore it was a thing
not, to be anticipated. Though he was
charged with being of the war party, yet he
did not know that he ihoohl be willing to go
to war, even if the present negotiation were
to fail. Indeed,-he thought, the particular
proposition more threatening than any other.
But it had been said, that if the present mo
tion paired, France would be in a state of
outlaw. If such consequences could b.e se
riously charged upon' the passing of a mo
tion of this kind, what situation, he alked,
were we in ? It seemed as if the cup of
humiliation mult be filled to the brim.
Mr. Venable denied that the proposi
tion now moved were to the fame effeit as
the' one intended to be (truck out j if it
were so, indeed, he would aflc why 4gentle
men were so anxious to have it passed. What
did gentlemen mean by conciliation ? He be
lieved they meant this—Come over to our
fide. The gentleman jolt fat down had the
other day said, let gentlemen descend from
the pride of opinion, and come and rally
round us. This was a peculiar kind of mo
dcjly which that gentleman seemed to poffefc,
and he wi(hed him to keep it.
Mr. Dennis said, admitting that the
words as they (tand are not unconstitutional,
ne could not fee why gentlemen (hould be so
lenirciousof them. It fceitied as if they were
diftruftful of the Executive. were told
by the public prints that the President had
appointed Negociatorn, men of charafter,
who, it could not be doubted, would do their
duty, and that they were adtuated by a di(-
pofiuon to h.eal the differences between .the
French republic and this country. He be
lijved there wa9.a majority in that Houf? who
vi(hed to depend u.pon the Executive. He
ould only fsi one reason for the eenduft of
gentlemeu on this occasion, and that was,
that they were afraid the Executive would
do right, and acquire too much reputation.
They want it to appear to the world, that
it was they who delivered their country from
the danger with which it was threatened.
Much, he observed, had been said about the
rights of that House; he did not mean to
go into the f«bje£t j but he would"aft,
whether, if the Executive should urrneceffa
rily draw the country into war, would that
House, when war was raging amongll us,
refute to appropriate money for carrying it
on ? They certainly would not—all would
unite t» repeilii g the danger.,
' Mr. Giles hoped that by this time, gen
tlemen had got rid of thtir conftitiltional scru
ples, as this proportion involved in it an in.
terference with the Executive in an equal de
cree with that it was meant to fupercede. It
would aHb have an operation upon the next
claufeof the aJdrefs, which asserted that the
conduit of government has been jffft attd'im
partial to foreign .nations, which went'as well
to France with refped to he.r treaties, as to
other governrasntal afts. This was the dif
ferent betwixt the tw« pr >fofuion». It
deeJ, ift it were only a fuhftiiute f..r thi
words ('.ruck out, there would be au objection
on the threlWd.' 'The objeft was, were
they wilfing to make some forth?
fake of pt ice ? He would rather give up the
' fpoliatiorsthaugo to war. HcwoqM rather
pay for them. But truftfdj if our nego ;
ciator-propofed to do ji\jtice to France witb.
reffxrct to h.'-r treaties, rajs facrifice
not be neceffart. The gentleman,from Ma
ryland charged .gru'.lcmen witli .jwiftiing. to
deprive the PicfiJei i of the rupulation of ac
-said, if tfye'y liad feny (hare.of the. fepTitalton,
they would also ha je a Uijire of the -rcfponli--
bility for any conteflLns wMch i: might be
found Beccffary to maki J , would at
tach to him. A curious idea iud heen ltar-t
---ed by the gentleman from. JJouthvCar-ciliija,
He thought, having carried'the q'lcftion in
to a committee of the whole, tljjt the mjt.ter.
had gone far enough. So", that gentlemen
having yelterday agreed to what, they thought
might to-day Sgiee'to what lliey be
lieved wrong. He cpuld not conceive that
this kind o f argument could operate upon the
House.
Mr. Gallatin had no objection to' the
word jujiict betag introduced into the amend
ment, but not as a substitute for what was
meant to be (truck our. He looked upon
The amendment as of two parts, the firit to
the word 3 relative toputting France
upon a footing equal with other nations ; the
second to introduce the fenttment, that » mu
tual spirit of juitice will produce accommo
dation. He" was again it the lint part, and
in favor of the other. The question to strike
out was the main queltiou reversed. He
widled the yeas and nays to be taken upon
it.
Mr. Sitgreaves could not fuffer mifre
presentations topafs unnoticed, it had been
said that this ameudment'Wasconnefled with
Other parts of the address, and that by agree
ing to it, the House pledged themselves to
support the exilting treaty between this coun
try and France. This he Ihewed was not so.
J-Je also referred to what had been said by
Mr. Dana on the ftihjedl of rights, frnm
whom he disagreed. He infilled that this
amendment had nothing to do with refpeit
to approbating any palt me-ifnres of govern
ment ; all it was intended to do was, to con
ciliate the different opinions iu the House on
this fubjeft..
Mr. Gordon said, it seemed to be insinu
ated that no gentleman'could be in favor of
this amendment, except such as were
te putting France on the fame footing witju
othet nations ; but he would fay, that tho'
he wished France to be so placed, and tho'
he felt as much gratitude for the afßftance
which France had afforded this country in
the time of her need as any other gentleman,
yet he was in favor of the motion to strike..
out, because he would avoid all appearance"
of an interference with the Executive ; as he
knew how easily opinion Aided into advice,
advice into precedent, and precedent into
mifcliievous effefts; He differed in opinion
from the gentleman from Connecticut on the
fubjeft of rights, and th« conftrudtion he put
upon it.
Mr. Nicholas did not wilh the present
question to depend upoh nice distinctions.
He wilhed gentlemen to recollect that it
was not the ebje£t of the amendment report
ed, to male war, but to prevent war. That
House, he iflfifted, had a right to fay it will
not declare war, except such and such things
are done. They had the power of prevent
ing war, without confuting the senate. They
could fay they would have peace.
The queliion for striking out was taken
by yeas and nays as follow :
YEAS.
Messrs. Allen, Baer, Bayard, Bradbury,
Brookes, Chapman, Chamolin,. Cochran,
Coit,Craik,-Daven:pprt, Dennis, Ege, Evans.
A. Folter,-D: Fortcr, | [. Fregmau,-Gkmi.
Good»nrh,'*Gtfr2on*, Crifaold* Grove, Har
per,- Hartley, Hirjdrnan, Hofroer;- Ifhlay,
"Sr. Lyman, Matthews,
fiorgan, Otis, Potter, Reed, Rutledge;.Sew.
aH, Shepartf, Sinuickfoii, t Sitgreaves, Jer.
Smith, TJv'Smith, W. Smith, (Ch.) Thatch
er, Thompson, Van ALen, VVadf
worth, J> Williams',— 49. -
' NAYS.
Messrs. Baldwin, Baird, Blount, Brent,-
Bryan, 'Cahell, Claiborn, Clay, -Ctopton,"
Dana, Davis, Dawfon, Dent, Elmendorff,
Findley, Fowler, N. Freeman, Galhrtin,
Giles, Gillefpie,' Gregg,- Hanna, Harril'on,'
Havens, .Holmes, Jones, Livingfton, Locke,.
Lyon, Macon, 'M'Cltnachan, M'Dowel,
Milledge, New, Nichotas, Parker, Schure
man, S. Smith, W. Smith,, (•'■P.*
diitriCt) R. Sprigg, Standford, Sugipter,
Swanw ick, A. Trigg, J. Trigg, Van Coit
huidt, Vatnum, Venable, R. Williams.—^o.
Mr. Kittera wilhed to offer an amend
ment. It appeared to him that the expref
lior. of " mutual spirit of conciliation,*" was
improper, as the passage-os The address now
(tood, without any thing being stipulated to
Le dune on the part of France. He, there
fore, proposed to add the following word?,*
viz. " to compensate for any injury done to
our neutral -rights, and on the part of"
Mr. Harpfr thought this proposition
made bad, nuorfc. They had been contend
ing for a long time against interfering With
tile Executive, and now tbey were about to
extend that interference. For hrmfelf, ihe
fame motive which led h.'m to oppose the-for
mer motion, would lead 141 m to oppose this,
as he nerir could vote for a proposition of this
•fort. *
-Mr. Kittera hoped the yeas and r.ays
would Ve taken upon the .question. He wa*
against giving advice to the Prefidentas much
as any one; but if they were to ;ive it, he
would make it as confident as poflible, and at
the fame time that attention was paid to
eoncefitonß to France, he was not willing to
forget our own citrzers. ' ,
Mr. G1 lis said tbis' proposition would
frrve to pcirplex the ht>li»ef«< infttad of diffi
gating difficulties. We were to drtnand from
France con>penfati«n for fpoliationr, or what I
we will go 10 war, for that mull be th? con
feqvence. *-••
Mo Oallatim ivji in 'hopes this projcofi
lion w.mi.J not have been brought before ilic *
Houfo-; for, if thry voted in fivor of thi»
rfrfwlution, wait! it not fci putting them
felv-.j in • luuarion of faying, if you Jo not
allow compenlt'.i »vfo/ these injurirt, wewill
seek. tcdreis in another way ; and, if they
voted-ajjainrt the rifalution, it would appear
33 if ther intended to abandon the claim.—*
Being forced,"howiv'er, to vote in one way or
•Kc-Ojher, fie mutt vote a«ainft it. He w?J
in. nuking certain conc#flion», be
cause he conceived it to be for the inteieft of
this country ta do fi>. He (hoiild vote agamft
-tfje prypofitian, becjufe if the French refufed
'to epnvpfy -.with tbc'condi'ion, war mn!l be
the confeqienCfc. 'He -wilhtd the . qiieftion •
.could■ bjc Avoided, because lie saw no benefit
'that could atife from a deci'ion UpQit ir.
Mr," Bay xkd Was surprised, that after it
ihad bien agr-eedthat >'t (houldte recommecd
ed to.tbe'PrefidKit to make certain concef
ftons to France, that gentlemen fhonld be
opposed to any provision Ii»" fjvi'if of our own
citizens. If the French, Tajd he, cnraplain
of inequality with refpeS to treaties, how
much more reason have our citizens to com
plaia of the spoliations cammitted uppn their
eomnieice > He thought tTiis amendment
calculated to make a bad thin
Mr. Venable was apprehensive that a
decision upon this question would .be a real
injury,to the claimants ; because if any thing
was done which would prevent an accomo
dation, these claims would (land on a worse
footing than at present—he must give his
negative to it. There were two hazards to
be run ; if it were negatived, it would ap
pear as if compensation was not expe&ed,
and if carried, and the French refafed com*
pllnnce, war-would be the consequence.
Mr. Nicholas wifhedgentlemen to con
sider what a serious barrier they were put
ting in the way of the peace of the country
—a clog,, which if perlifted in must lead to
war. It was pofiible, he said, they might
-have carried their zeal too far, but what was
it to effe£t ? The peace of the country ;
whilst the zeal of their opponents led to
war. He felt this question of so important
a nature, and, ill his opinion so improper to
be decided, that he should move the previ
ous queftibn itpon it.
This motion being fupportftl liy five
membejs-(According to -the rides of the
House) the question how became " .'hill the
main queftitm no iff."tie put •?"
Mr;.HARS-ER said, that if no othefgood
could be effected by this motion, it had pro
duced declarations in favour of the Execu
tive from all.-fides of the House. He left
• it, however,- to the ingenuity -of gentlemen
who voted in favour of fh'e former pro'poli
tion, to shew, why they voted ajjainft this.
He noticed what had fallen from a gentle
tleman fij®m -.yirgtrta Mrith-refpfft to.sup
porting the Executive ; he Believed" the
best way of supporting the Executive "was
.to leave .him to himfelf.
Mr.-Giles said, when gentlemen were
themselves turning round, they'were apt to
believe, all the .world • was doing so. "He
! thought there would indeed be inconliften-
c y} for any member to be in- favour of Ijoth
propositions. He was m favour of peace,
not because valuable to a foreign country,
but because valuable to American citizens, •
and he thought the. mode that he and ,his
friends had advocated was the only one to se
cure it, He believed the business of spoli
ations ftj6uld be left to be fettled by the
Prefldent in the feed way he'could do it.
Mr. Allen thought gentlemen seemed
too much disposed to by this country at the
feet of France. If the address were .exa
mined, would be found that We only che
rilh a hope that France would compensate
our wrongs. Surely, he said, this cannot
give offence. » ■
Mr. Gordon jjvas in "favor of peace,,snd
still in favor 'of what gentlemen had called
a war iiktiqn x and againft.ynhat lie'called a
peace motion. i ,
Mr. L ivinoston was agaitaft the main
question being put, because afraid,
if 'it-were 'put,Jt' wojjJd.be loft.. 'He ft-irl"
no the - ber
no elbg Upon the "negotiation, because "it
rmiftbejn'adfc a part of .is, \ But the lofing
the amendment, would have a bad effe£t ;
and-he believed it would be loft, because,
if" gentlemen afted cojififtently who voted
again# the fonp.er amendment, tHey must
vote against this jilfo.
Mr. G ooi)R ICK -said, that as they h;«fl af-'
fumed/the. right, of- adviiiqg the Prefldent,
he wiltied'atleftft as much "refpefil tobe paid
to the claims of our fellow-citizens as to
those of the French Republic.
Mr. faw? the: difficulty in
which'gentlemet) were placed, which war, .
1 either to' abandon the claims of their fellow
citizens, or their'own views, and.he had no
doubt 'in faying that an endeavor to get rid
of the question, was an- endeayor to abarw
don those claims. As it was not an ultima- *''
turn, it could not be called a. warpropofitiov*
Mr. J. Smith said the argument of the
gentleman from New York was a Angular
one ; because if the previous question was .
carried,'it ujouid amount to -a. negative.
Mr. #lrent defended the argument vi
the gentleman from New York.
Mr. Swanwick fpokeat fomelength as
to theJineJJi which had been liled on this oe
cafion ; a 6 it appeared, he said, that it was
the Svi(h.of" gentlemen so carry this propo
rtion for thi fake only cf defeating loth,—
when the vote car.ie to be taken on both to
gether. If both proportions could be car
ried, he should be in favor of both ; but be
could not consent to vote for this, in order
to give gentlemen an opportunity of defeat
ing the other.
Mr. Venable again exprefTedhisembur.-
rafiment.
Mr, W'. Smith said, as she hour of ad
■jourhment was arrived, the debate did
not appear to be exhausted, he moved to ad
journ. Adjourned.
I"i - 1
In the house of yefttrday, .''.
the answer to the fpeeehof the Prefldent of .
the United States was again under confiderva:ioa, and. tfee quciioa left undecidei cn y
Thurfdqy was ag iin resumed, the sol- t
lowing araeadavcit, being under caafidera- h
tion, "to cornpenfaie far'any injury- Jon: to t
Our aeulral rights, and on the part of-?* £h<? f
previous queflio i had been called upon it; e
the difcuflion. of which was continued to! a b
oonfiderable hngth (the particulars,for iucmt n
of room, are poflponed till Mon/iciy.) At si
length the cjueftiaa, " Shall the niam quef- I
tion no-.v. be put," was taken by yeas and t
nays as follow \' li
YEAS. 8
Meflw. Allen, Bradbury, i
Chapman, ChampHn, Cochran, d
Craik, Dana,DaVtnportjDeuuis,Ege,Evans, v
A Fofter,D.F»fter, J.Freeman,Glenn,Goord
rkh, Gordop, Grifwold, Grove, Harper, h
Hartlyy, Havens, Hindman, Hofmer,lmky, p
Kittera, S. Lyniaa, Machir, Matthews, e
Morgan, Otis, Potter, Reed, Rutledge, e
Schureman, Sewall, Shepard, Sinnickfon, ii
oTtgre?.ves,Jer. Smith, N. Smith, W. Smith,
(Ch.) Thatcher, Thompiof., Thomas, Van r
Alen, Wadfwoith, J. Williams.—s2. t
NAYS. v
Mefixs. r ildwin, Bard, Blount, Brent, r
Bryan, Cabell, Clairborn, Clay,' Clopton, f
Coit, Davis, Dawfon, Dent, Elmendorff, |
Findley, Fowler, N. Freeman, Gallatin, h
Giles, Gillefpie, Gregg, Hanna, Harrifon, 1
Holmes, Jones, Livingfton, Locke, Lyon,
Macon, M'Clenachan, M'Dowel, Milledge, 1
Newj Nicholas, Parker, Skinner, S. omith,
W. Smith, (Piackney District) R. Sprigg,
Sandford, Sumpter, Swanwick, A. Tr'gg,
J. Trigg, Van Oortlandt,Varnum, Venabie, t
R,. Williams.—43. ,
The previous question having been loft, i
the main queftjpn returned ; which having 1
been read, Mr. Havens observed, that one ■
part of the amendment was hypothetical, ■'
and moved that instead of " injuries done to
cur neutral rights," it should read, u injuries
which may have been committed upon our neu
tral rights." This amendment was agreed ]
to without a diviiion ; and the main quef- 1
tion being about to be put, Mr. Gallatin
observed, that a majority having determined
the queflaon should betaken, he now confi- ,
dered it as his business to chufe between two
evils. He had considered this amendment ,
as fa.yiog, that except the French would 1
compensate the spoliations they had commit
ted upon, our commerce, no accommodation
could take place, and of coutfe war must
ensue ; but gentlemen who supported it,
denied that it had any such conftruftion, he
should, therefore, take in the sense they ;
gave it, and vote for it, though he had ra- 1
ther no vote had been taken upon the occa. 1
fion. The votes were taken by yea 3 and ;
Cayi as follow :
YEAS.
Meflrs. Allen, Baer, Bayard, Bradbury,
Brent, Brookes, Cochran, Chapfnan, Champ
h'n, Clairborn, Clay, Clopton, Craik, Dana,
Davenport, Dawfon, Dennis, Ege, Elmen
dorff, Evans, Findley, A. Foster, D. Foster,
J. Freeman, N. Freeman, Gallatin, Gillef
pie, Glen, Goodrich, Gordon, Grifwold,
Grove, Hanna, Harrifon, Hartley, Havens,
Hindman, Holmes, Hofmer, Imlay, Jones,
Kittera, Livingfton, Locke, Lyman, Ma
chir, Matthews, Milledge, Morgan, New.O
tis, Potter Reed, Rutledge, Schureman,
Sewall, 'Shepard, Sinnickfon, Sitgreaves,
Skinner, J. Smith, N. Smith, S. Smith, W.
Smith, (Ch.)W.Smith",(P.) Sprigg,Stand
ford, Swanwick, Thatcher, Thompson,
Thomas, A. Trigg, J. Trigg, Van Alen,
Van Cortlandt, Varnum, Wadfworth, J.
Williams.—7B.
- NAYS.
Messrs. Baldwin, Baird, Blount, Bryan,
Cabell, Coit, Davis, Dent, Fowler, Giles,
Gregg, Harper, Lyon, Macon, M'Clena
chan, M'Dowell, Nicholas, Parker, Sump
ter, Venabie, R. Williams.—2l.
The question was then taken upon Mr.
Dayton's amendment as amended, when the
yeas and nays were as follow :
TEAS.
Messrs,. Baldwin, Baird, Blount, Brent,
Bryan, Cabell, Chaniplin, Clairborn, Clay,
Ciop tea, Dana, Davis, Dawfon, Elmendorff,
Findley, N. Freeman, Gallatin, Giles, Gil
lefpje, Gregg, Hanna, Harrifon, Havens,
Holmes, Jones, Kittera, Livingfton, Locke, ;
Lyon, Machir, Macon, M'Clenachan, M'-
Dowd, Milledge, Morgan, New, Nicholas,
Otis, Parker, Potter, Reed, Rutledge,
Schureman, Skinner, S. Smith, W. Smith,
( P.) Spring, Standford, Sumpter, Swanwick,
Thomas, A. Trigg, J. Trigg, Van Cort
land, Varnum, Venabie, J. Williams, R.
Williams.—sß.
NAYS.
MefTrs. Allen, Baer, Bayard, Bradbury,
Brookes, Chapman, Cochran, Coit, Craik,
Davenport, Dennis, Dent, Ege, Evans, A.
Foster, D. Foster, Fowler, J. Freeman,
Glenn, Goodrich, Gordon,Grifwold, Grove,
Harper, Hartley, Hindman, Hofmer, Imlay,
Lyman, Matthews, Sewall, Shepard, Sin
nick r on r Sitgreaves, J. Smith, Nl Smith,
W. Smith, (C.) Thatcher, Thompson, Van
Alea, Wadfworth.— 41.
The queftiOh being about to be put upon
the address as amended, Mr. Livingston
said, having had occasion to .express his
Houbts about the propriety of the condutk
of the executive towards foreign nations,
aijd not believing it had been " just and im
pirtial," and not from the fear of offending
aty.foreign nation (as had been insinuated)
he was not willing to for an address
containing words so exceptionable.
Mr. Lvon moved to strike out the words
'* foreign nations."
Mr. LivmctTON said he had other ob
j.;client. • ,
Mr. Gallatin wished to strike out the
whole paragraph from the word " Believ
ing." His great objefljon to this para
pTiph, he said, was nor to the clause which
said that the conduct of government had
been"juftandimpartial to foreign nations;"
for, although he could not fay the govern
ment had, in every inilance, been just and
impartial to foreign nations, yet, generally
fpezking, he believed it had been so. Tho'
he id not approve of the conduit of the
executive with rsTpeft to the British U"eaty,
yoth4 was ixat to attribute bad-jno- <
lives so them on th"rt.account; but the part
he had objected to, was that m which, they
they pledged thcmfelves that tfte laws were
faftly executed ; f> far as it related to the
executive, he doubted not this wa ihe Csfe, .«
but with refptft to the subordinate depart- 1
ments of the executive, and the judiciary, /
he could not give an .opinion of this fort ) 1
but his chief obje&ion was to the lad fen- i
tence, in which they said " they did -not '
heutate to declare, that they .would gifc 1
{five their moll cordial support to principles so J
deliberately and uprightly eftablilhed." He
did not know what principles, what support '
was meant.
Mr. W. Smith said the word principles '
had reference to the laws which they.had £
pafled. He did not think the paragraph 1
exceptionable ; One nearly limihr was insert- <
ed in the address of last fyffion, and he tho't <
it at this time peculiarly proper.
Mr. Oris thought there was something c
more artful and insidious in this attempt i
than in any which had been made in the i
bufinefs, as it went to call a censure, ;
not only on the executive., but all the de- [
partiiients of government. r
Mr. Allen believed there wag American ;
blood enough to approve of the clause, and t
American accent enough to pronounce- it. j c
The queflion on this amendment was ta-' j
ken bv yeas and nays as Callow. '
YEAS.
Baldwin, Bird, Blount, Brtnt, Bry
an, Cabell, Claiborn, C'ay, Clopton. Daw
fou, E'mendoi ff, Findley. Fowler, N. Free
iiub, Gallatin, Giles, Gillefpie, Gregg, Han
na, tlarrifon, Havens, Holmes, Jones, Liv- {
ingflon, I.ocke, Lyon, Macon, M'Clenachan,
M'Dowell, Milledge, New, Nicholas, Paiker,
Skinner, S. Smith, Wi Smith, t P. J Spring,
.Sran.U'ord. Surapter, Swas vlck, J. Trigg, Van
Cortlandt, Varnum, Venabie, R, Williams— 1
45. :
NAYS.
Meflrs. Allen, Bier, Bayard, Bradbury*, I
Brookes, Chapmaij, Champhn, Cochran, Coit, i
Craik, |Dara, Davenport, Davis, Dennis, I
Dent, £ge, Evans, A. Fofler, D. Fofler, J. 1
Freeman, Glenn, Goodrich, Gordon, Grif-* <
wold, Grove, Harper, Hartley, Hindman,
Hofmer, Imlay, Kittera, Lyman, Machir, <
Morgan, Otis, Poiter, Reed, Rutledge, Schn- i
reman,. Sewall, Shepard, Sinnickfon, Sit- I
greaves, J.Smith, N. Smith, W. Smith, (C.j '
Thatcher, Thomas, Thorupfan, A. Trigg, •
Van Alen, iVadfworth, J. Williams— 53.
The question was then taken on the address i
as amended, by Yeas and Nays as follow: i
YEAS
Messrs. Allen, Baer, Baldwin, Bard, Bayard.
Bradbury, Biookes, Chapman, Chaniplin, i
Cochran, Coit, Craik, Dana, Davenport, Den
nis, Dent, Ege, Evans, A. Foster, D. Foster,
J. Freeman, N- Freeman, Gallatin, Glenn, 1
Goodrich, Gordon, Grifwold, Grove, Hanna, :
Harper, Harrifon, Hartley, Hindman, Holmes,
Hofmtr, Imlay, Kittera, Lyman, Machir,
Mi I lege, Morgan, Nicholas, Olis, Potter,
Rutledge, Schureraan, Sewall, Shepard, 1
Skinner, Sinnickfon, J. Smith, N. Smith, S.
Smith, W.Smith, (Cn.) Thatcher, Thomp
son, Thomas, A. Trigg, Van Alen, VVadf
worth, Williams—62.
NAYS.
MefTrs. Blount, Brent, Bryatt, Cabell, Clai
born, Clay, Clopton, Davii, Dawfon, Elmen
dorff, Findley, Fowler. Giles, Gillefpie, Gregg,
Havens Jonea, Livingfton, Lacke, Lyon, Ma
con, M'Clenachan, M'Dowell, New, Parker,
Sitgreaves, W. Smith, (!'.) Sprigg, Stand
fr d, Stlmpter, Swan wick, J. Trigg, Van
Cortlandt, Vannum, Venablc, R. Williams —
j6.
MefTrs. Venabie, Kittera and Freeman were
appointed a committee to wait upon the Presi
dent, to know when and wheie he wojjld re
ceive the address.
Xijc&mttz.
PHILADELPHIA,
SATURDAY EVENING, JUNE 3, *797.
This day, «t 12 o'clock, the House of
Representatives waited on the President of
the United State* at hit own house, when
the Speaker prefeated the Address in aitfwer
to his Speech at the opening of the fel&on.
A Bill to prevent ihe Citizens of the
United States privateering against nations
in amity with or against Citizens of. the
United States, hat been brought forward
in the Senate.
The following melancholy cataflrophe took
place at Bordenton, on Friday the 26 th ult.
Mr. and Mrs. Wythe, lately from England, to
gether with Miss Martha Reeves and Mr. John
Forder, both residents ip Bordenton, formed a lit
t!« prrty and crofled the Delaware with a view of
fjpeodirg the afternoon in the pleafuras of friend- f
imp. Evening had cdme en bt fore they attempted'
to return. Their batteau was small and leaky,
( and, while in the midH of the river, their appre
hanfious were awakened.
They came, however, fafe'y 'till within about
tan yards of the <hor«, when the battcau striking
against a large boat that lay in the river, and which
the darkness cf the evening had prevented them
1 from pereCivihg, overturned. Mrs. Wythe funk,
notwithstanding all the efforts of her| hufbtnd—
, The two young petfons (hared her fate. Mr.
, Wytha with difficulty reached the (bore.
Saturday last wa6 launched at Charleftown
' (Mass.) a Ihip of 42® toi*. She is pierced
fur 24 £llll6, and wa< designed for the India
' trade. Her name is the Emprcfs of China.
-f
---' A letter from Havanna dated May le fays,
the present Governor, the Earl of Santa
; .Clara, has notified the French Vice Canful,
' Bondcneace, that he is determined to prelerve
' the intercourse of neutral nations with thai
port frte and uninterrupted, and that French
' cru'fers are not to moletl neutral veffcU bound
to or frop it.
From the Knoxtiluc Cazitte.
e
May I.
On Friday last, purfuantto his sentence, Robert
1 Parker wu oiaeuteJ, for th« crime of burglary.
Laft Saturday arrived in toWn, three sons of the.
' late Duke of Orlcamt and. yrflerday set out on
- their jonrney to the Weftwird, by Vellrco, Fort-
J • Grainger, NaAriile, *c. At the age of fourteen
) year., tha eldest of those gentlemen commanded
' i one of the wings of army at thefam
-1 ' ous battla of Jmmappe, and the two your.geft
C ' were imprisoned 43 tronths at MarfeiUes, by the
', French £ovr:;«r.ent.
Cdpy of a l#lter from The HontraMe Wilciam
Blount, to 'Brigadier-General White, da'ed
Be tvep Crock Ifo-n works, Sullivan County, I
(Termfoe), April 17, 1797.
Sir, * ■' <
TIiAT Congrnrfdhud authorized the redemption
.of ths Acufcccto Teamen (tfaves or captives) to the
pey of ta'ten upon the high seas upwards
of three thoofand mllr* from home, in frUrch of
foreign Ifexunej an<A wealth, at a hiijh price, ha*
fmcc been made Known to the public in grcne
rv.l; hut it remained to the lull hcur of the laJlftf
lioa to pass an id authorize thltreafuty depart
ment to reimburfeto certain o 1 thole fcamen tl>e
price paid for their redemption by themselves or
friends.
Your filler, Mrs. Willfon, and her children, aad
many other perfens employed in agriculture, have
taken by Iruiiafcs 3nd carried into captivity
from their houses and firms, of whom be fide 5
Mr» Willfon and»Jicr children, feme have been le
dcemei ot a high price from (Ileli captors; I mean
higi» i.t ih4 "euimarion of who paid the price
of their.redemption, though very trifling conevar
ed to the price p*i<l by the United States to the
Dey, for the .American feaiuen.. It cauhot lie r»e
tefiary to offer any real'ona to that the agri
cultural ir.tercft, our of vvhi» h commerce ha» gnnvn,
is entitled to an equal degree at lcafl of the sup
port and protection of the federal goveenmeiit*
Theobje&of thus premifmg, Is to teach you to
hope .that upon application to Congress, by peti
tion, supported with proper vouchers, you will be
renaid the sum by you paid for the recovery of
your filter and children. x\nd to.the end that ail
the citizens of Tcnneffee under Cmilar circumftaii
{ ccs with ycurfelf, may receive from uie th«
J lame degree of information, 1 request you to pub
liih this letter in the Kuoxville Gazette.
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, June 2.
iixtrails from London papers, by
the Packet Clrterct, frain Falmouth.]
PLYMOUTH, April 5.
At the conclusion of the sea-sight off Cape St.
Vincent's, on the 14th of February theSpanilh
admiral, with no small air of triumph, obser
ved, that although he had the misfortune to
lose four of his {hips, two of which were firft
rate, yet was a matter of no trifling consola
tion to him, tor.eflefl, of the Eng
lifti (hips must have been funic, at there ware
only fifteen remaining.
The San Joseph Spanish nmn of war is one
of the molt wonderful (hips that ever has been
conftruiJled, htr bceadth of beam exceeding
that of ihe Victory's three feel ; nevertheless
(he worked under her jury masts as quick and
as handily as a frigate. In point of failing, (he
was confidefed as the CKACK (hip in the Span
ilh navy. All the prizes made oa this memora
ble day, are remarkably fine (hips; and have
' lately undergone thorough repairs. Upon the
whole, so valuable and exlraordinary a capture
is not to be met with in our naval annals.
In the late adlion off Cape St. Vincent's, the
Spanilh fleet had numberlrfs frigates, wlulfl,
on. our fide, we had so few, that the Bon Ci
toyen, a (loop of iS guns, was left with the
charge of Le Salvador del Mundo.
LONDON, April 10.
Mr. Slater, the messenger, was dispatched
on Wednesday evening with his letters to Sir
Charles WhitwOrtb, K. B. his Majesty's Minis
ter at the court ©£ Peteriburg ; frora thence he
will proceed to Covfiantinople.
Rcnenual as tkt Negotiation for Ptact.
Mr. Pollen rose, in conformity to notice, to
lubmit a proposition on the.fubjeft of negocia
. tion.' In-deing this, he disclaimed the idea of
, beiiig jufluatied by party-motives. He was im
. pelled by a- conviflion of the ueceflity of termi
, nating the w;ar*. or convincing the world, that
the prosecution of it_was owing to the unjust
1 demands of the enemy. "He then toolc a view
of the calamities produced by it, expatiated on
the critical Situation of this country, and read
. extradtsirnin the Redadleur of the 24th Dec.
. aflerting that-the war was dcfenfive on the part
. of France, and that they were desirous of-peace.
These Jie knew were the fentimests of the
Direftory. From which it was obvious that
- the negociation then pending was bioken off
by the insincerity of his Majesty's ministers.
In support of this assertion, he read a variety of
extracts from thecorrefpondence between Lord
Malmlbury arid M. Li Croix 4 and concluded
by moving-an address tojhis Majesty, represent
ing that it appeared, on mature condderation,
jr frora the result »f the late negotiation, that his
, Majesty's gracious and benign intentions had
been mifconeeived by the government of
" France, or unexplained to the French nation ;
r the house therefore prayed that his Majesty
would be pleased to adopt such measures at he
mayjuHge most effectual to remove those mif
e conceptions and reprcl'entaiioris relative to the
t sincerity of his Majesty's Ministers.
Major Elford laid, he rcfe to give the address
e his raoit decided negative, from a convi<slion
that it would throw obfticles in the way of
mftead of accelerating a fair and honourable
peaee. . „
k Mr. Pitt said, at the present conjuncture,
the motion could not be produ&ive of any prac
-- tical benefit to the country, and flight prove
n injurious to fre(h negociations. Thehon.gen
t- tleman's lamentations on the calamities of war
>f would always prevail, unless war could be
1- wholly exefuded ; bi>t on every evil the house
d. ought :o decide on the comparative evi l , with
f> out fuffering their judgment to be biassed by
-* circumflances unavoidable in a contest founded
on jultice, neceffityand felf defence.--That in
finceruy in the late negociation was imputable
8 to miniiilrs, he denied. The failure he aver
red was solely to be ascribed to the extravagant
[™ demands of the enemy. The unauthenticated
papers on whkh fomuch stress had been laid,
contained a grol's of fadli and
fallacious arguments.
Withrefpeft to the address itfelf, it was cal
ctilated to encourage the enemy and embarrass
rn frelh chances of general pacification. ~ The
house had seen enough to be convinced that
ii ministers are impressed with the most earned
desire for accelerating that desirable objefl.
The motion was therefore fnperfluous in one
s view, and dangerous m another. When nun
' ifters had experienced so much disappointment,
ta end the enemy made such exorbitaab demands,
"» they had no reafoh to be very sanguine in their
" c expectations from the present address. If any
at faccefs can be attained, it mnft be by a direct
:h negociation inconcert with onf allies. But he
id begged to impress upon the house that there
w#re «ven limits to the wilh for peace. That
object was only desirable where there was ade
quate security against additional infulta, and on
this- principle the country ought to aft. If
therefore meafurrt of tins nature art now de«
' any thing that might fruftrate them
r wJidatigerous it thr present crisis.
Our views ought to be directed to disappoint
| le the policy of tfcr enemy, in difaoiting cur al
on lies. I have, said Mr. Pitt, nodiUieultyin lta
rt- ting that hii Majesty'» Mimftert are at this
tn moment jbout to embrace an opportunity for
ed negotiation. In corrfiquence of the determina
n. tion expressed by the Emperor, not to enter
eft into any negociation sos peace except in concert
he with Great Britain, steps liavj been takcu for
thtreacwal of* joint ntgocation, aod his ma
jefty ius determined to >nd a conMfSriii per
son to Vienna, to conceit measures with tiie
Emperor for a joint nejrociatipn. Under these
circumflances he hoped the h»n. gent'emin
would not prtft his motion. • ■
Col. Porter contended that Miaifters-were
not actuated by' a fiacere desire to make'
peJce.
Mr. Adth'ngton combated the topfes ad
vanced by Mr. Pollen, and entered into a
vindication of the Minifler'sconduft through .
the« whole of the war, of which he gave a
history of the origin and progress, and sug
gested the propriety of poffponing this mo
tion until the event of the negociation allu- |
dtd to was known. The hftn, gentleman I
then entered on a flattering description of '
tliii resources of the country. We are said j
he, in pdfieflion of abundant wealth. If we |
aft will* spirit we (hall find ourselves strong ; j
if we aft with liberality, we (hall . find our- !
selves rich. However' he might wish for
oeconomy, it was a narrow, contrasted, and
(hallow policy, to aft at the present con
junfture with an unbecoming parlimony.—
Our interests were identified withour honor.
Our situation ought to arouse our exertion
for the establishment of a permanent and fo
bd peace. These difculfions were calculated
to damp the spirits, to unnerve the exertions,
and to fruftrate'the objeft we profefled to
acuomplifh. For the attainment of this ob
jeft it was, that Ministers had prosecuted
the war. Under this conduft the, Britifli
Navy had attained the iiigheft pinnacle of :
glory, and crippled and almost annihilated 1
the navy of our enemy. It was likewise no '
small advantage that we had preserved the 1
national honour unsullied, our liberties un
impaired, and saved our invaluable cpnftit'u- :
tion. He concluded by exprefling his dif-
the motion, and moving the .
order of the day. i
Mr. Fox said, it was impoflible for him
under the prefiure of calamitiesat tjie present ' ]
conjunfture to give a fijent vote. The house '
was again'called on to continue their confi
dence in thofemen, whose counsels had been ,
so injurious to the country, and. whose 1 |
negociations had been so linfuccefsful. In ! ]
order to evade a proposition for the house to ;
interfere with the Executive government, ,
we were now told that a confidential person
is on the eve of setting out for Vienna.
Let us examine the circumflances attend- |
ing his embassy. When the Austrian arms (
are unfuccefsful, we oppose negociation ; ;
when the enemy experiences disasters, Mi- |
nillers fay, " What! negociate when we |
are in the career of victory ! No, we (hall
diftatc a peace."—When Lord Malmefbury
went upon his embassy, it was during the
French viftories, the time of all others the
lead likely ro obtain good terms. Much had
been laid of the Minister's sincerity on that
occasion ; for his own part he was ready to ,
believe him sincere, because it was the pre
cise time that peaee was leaf likely to be ob
tained, and our ambassador remain at Paris
till the Minister had negociated his loan.— ,
We were now at the lowest ebb of credit, |
loan is wanted, the Auftrians are defeated, ,
and the negociation is renewed !
Do not embarrass our negociation fay the ,
adherents of the minister. He would alk ,
the house, whether a minister was likely to
negociate the worse because the house was
previously consulted ? On three or four
former Qccafiont the Minister had deprecated
the interference of the house, on the ground
that it would retard rather than accelerate
the negociation—The house abstained, and
no negociation took place. In his opinion,
the previous concurrence of the house would
give dignity and weight to their overtures,
and be more likely to bring them to a hap
py termination-
He now called the attention of the house
to the relative state of this country and our
ally. We were calledupon not to vote sums
to enable the Emperor to march to Paris,
but for the purpose of causing a diversion to
prevent the enemy from marching to Lon
don. When peace was negotiated, he ho
ped it would be conjointly ; but if the ques
tion was. whether the war was to be pro
secuted, or we were to have a separate peace
he felt no hesitation in faying he preferred
the latter-
He next touched upon the facrifices that
had been made, and contended, that the ob
jefts attained, bore no comparison to the
losses. On the other hand, France had
gained Spain, -Holland Italy, &c. and the
ascendency Ihe had over Prufiia produced a
great preponderancy in their favour ; —but
France had acquired an ally which was more
•formidable against England than the combin
ed efforts of Europe. The ally He meant,
was the National Debt of Great Britain ;
an ally who would not desert them even in
time of peace.
After a few remarks on the nature of the
peace, which, he said, ought to be on the
principles of equality, and just compensa
tions ; but, above all, a reconcihatlou of the
resentments of their refpeftive people in or
der .to a permanent peace, to convince both
countries that their refpeftive governments
are not dangerous to each other, and that
they are equally capable of maintaining
the relations of amity and peace. He con
cluded by giving his molt hearty support of
the motion.
Mr. Pitt replied at great lengthto Mr.
Fox.
Several members delivered their sentiments,
after' which a division took pl*ce on the
amendment,
Ayes 291
Noes 85
• Majority against the motion, 206
Oti the motion of Mr. Pitt, the House ad
jotirnedto Thursday feu'night,
MILAN, March 15.
An unexpefted and important change has
taken place in. the Venetian territory; three
of the principal towns of the Republic,—
Verona, Brescia, and Bergamo, the former
of which contains-60,000, the second forty
eight thousand, and the lalt 13,000 inhabi
tants, together with the town of Crema, —
have thrown themselves on the protection of
the FreaAr aid" fc¥cft«d tb U? annexed t&
(he new Rqxublic at Lifcmbardy-.
I The city ofVicejiai, eootaining 30,000
! fouls, has atfo an inclination to adopt
| the fotfce meafcrr.
! The Papal Towns of RaveUnd, Gubb'-o,
bim}- {Re Duchy of Gubbro, are likewise Jc -
firwts of being united to the CiiTpadane Re
public ; and their. Central Afiembfy has abc 1 -
li fiied the torture.
BERGAMO, March 13*
This day ah event, which {till appears to
us" as a dream, has trfken place ; the firft. fa
milies of this city have placed. themselves
under the prote&ion of the French. All
the Venetian authorities arc suspended, and
all the troops have difarrhed and difbasdon
ed. A municipality has been ide&ed, which
has already admiviiftered the 03th. to about
8000 persons. The late Governor left the
city to-day about, noon, but before he went
he publiflicd.the following. •
PROCLAMATION r
" Live the Republic of Bergatrio I
" I engage mvftlf to the People of Ber
gamo, that I will do my utmost to. procure
liberty for those perfoivs who are r>ow confi
ned at Venice for.favouring the Frer.ch Re
public, and their restoration to their fami
lies.
(Signed) « ALEX OTTOLINI."
Every place fvvarms with French cockades,
it is expefted that a similar revolution will
take place at Verona. Brescia, and Crerr.a ;
yet conlidering the magnitude of the event,
the greateli tranquility and order prtvails.
# New.York, June 2.
The bri| Benjamin and Nancy, eapTairt
Penrce, ef and from Bdfton,- for Dublin,was
at Waterford' on the 30'.h March ; she
on the 23ft of that month, boatded bv a
French vefTel of war, which, iftfe'r examining
berpapel-i, perm tied her 10 proceed.
Londonderry, Feb. 27, 1797.
We the {undernamed pe'iCotu, paflengerl
on.board (he fliip Mars, captain Cufcaden,
from New-York to this port, take this pub
lic tfiethdri of returning thanks and ' wairaeft
acknowledgments- for his very kind and hu
mar.e conduft to us. And,"
Vfc, the crew of the (hip H'«rcutc«, of
Leith, fr»m Janlsica t* London, deem it
highly incumbent upon uita express our njtfft
grateful fenfeof his aQivityia taking us up
at sea, in themoft extreme danger, and afhi*
humanity and' attention exereifed towards us
till our arrival here.
James Steel,-D. Gallagher, Gam
bell H. Bliick, Wbi. Cufcadiß, W.
Gallagher, F. M. Mentmen, B.
Boyle, James Love, James Gutty
James Colter.
Signed in behalf of outfcWe* And the reft
of the pafle tigers.
Estradl <xf a letter from captjin Cjifcj'fen,
> dated Londonderry, Feb. it, ■
" In lat. J4, long. 16, .we fell in
with a (hip called the Hercules, from Jamaica
bound to London, in di'ftrefs, without malls,
rudder, or tiller, and had been in tbat (late
for 6 weeks. The (hip making water very
fall, the captain and 17 men came on board
of us, but the sea tunning high, could get
nothing out of her. "tier cargo wa< rum,
sugar and coffee."
Arrived at Charleston, May 20, in 70
days from Rotterdam,' the brig Adra, Pren
tifs. On tbe sth May, in lat. 32,' long. 60,
spoke schooner Alligator, Turner, of and
from New-York, bound to St. Domingo,
eight days our, and all well.
Arrived at Charleston, May 22, the (hip
Matilda, Tombs, 7 days from N?w Yoik. '
Calladarees, or ludia Gipghanis.
ON Monday next the sth June, at * o'clock,
at Footman & A's auflion itore, will bt
fold by public vendue, one hundred pieces of'
fiae Ca!lada-eesor India Ginghams.
FOOTMAN &-Co. '
J'ine3, 179 y. ■ • * t> ■
Notice..
ALL perfbns indebted to the Efla'e of Sarah
Ma r shall.deceased, are requrfted to make
immediate payment, and th.ife that have detfiania
againfb faiJ £ \..ic, arp defircd to bring in their ac
counts properly atteflcd for futlemtnt, to either o£
thefubferibem. Ch*istom£r Marshail, Jr.
Caspar W. Haines,
Ahaham M. Garrio»es,
Admtniftrators to the Estate of Sarah Marshall,
deeeafed, • Jline 3 aaw3w
Larson's Circus,
South Fiftk-Street.
The Public are refpcAfully informed that
The Performances at the CIRCU\J
THIS EVENING, June 3, •
Will begin by a Gtand Parade of Equeftriitt
Pe< formers of both sexes.
AND
A grand display of Horsemanship,
By Mcffrs. /.mjlfy, Herman, C. Vandeve de,
Nichobi Corrc, M'iionald, the Clown, and'Lsil
fon. .
Still Vaultings
By the EqueOrian performer,,, in which they will
execute ftveral difficalt exercises which have ne
ver been attempted hut by themselves.
Mr. Sully, in the charadler of Clown, wilL
perferm a variety Of Comic Feats.
Lail&on will perform feveraicurious
tonilhmg exerrifes, which he.wijl no(
enumerate, in order to furpri2; the fprfhtor; hit
aim being lo uicafe i\al] be'nejieAejl,
'to render thex(Qrihy"lhe alt'ehtTon'ot thea-
of this new arU . - u .i."' ' -
• The Death of Bucephalus: ;
A. Pantgmilne on HnrCVaeir. -
Bucephalus will Ipap- ojeif-a Stable <v«y.
great h«ight aitd also tMo ugh a large hog (Head,
"with hi* rider on lsi» tiack.'
Miss Vanice will perform several
felts « ki<,h hat never been attempted but bt her
felf, 4 .... '
The evening'# entertainment will conclude by a
new pantomime (never performed here)
called 1 -
Harlequin Mariner 5
Or, THE DISTRESSED TAR.
With new scenery, drcorations, Jte.
Colombiire, Mn. Rowfon, from the Theatre Ray.
al Covent Garden, being her firft appearance in
America.
OuTuctiay will be presented, ferthefiril time,
PlhKKii D£ PROVENCE, a grand hrftorical
pantsmiine, with tourmaents, battles, n.w dec*-
ratiazt and aUitaxy evekuions.Houfticld Furniture.
NOW felling by private tale, No. I 7 Dock
ftreet— consisting o chairs, table*, Jot.kmg-
bureaus, hand and fire irons, bedftcadf,
feather-bed s, carpets, bedding, window curtains,
feed and table linen, kitchen furniture, &c. , J he
whole in good order, afid has only teen a few
months in use. , ,
The sale to continue daily 'till the whole i fold.
T»ne §
For Sale,
Thai tvelltnozvn place, called Vaklegritt's
F F R R Y, ,
ON Nefhaminy cr«k, 18 miles from r'nila
ladeiphia, on the Nev.* \ ork post road,
coritainiiig 74 acres ami 94 perches, Upon the
premises are a large two ftei y ftono houle occu- p
pied as a tavern, and a good one story (lone kit
chen, a large frame ftible with a good thi ellving
floor, and some out buildings—also a well ot
good water, and an excellent ice Houie. On G
this place is a most elegant (ituation fora gentle
man s feat, commanding a view of the Nelham
iny toils junilicm wiih the Delaware, and thence
across to the Jersey (hore. It has the privilege
of one' half the toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the Subfsi iber,
MOUDECAI LEWIS.
Yay 24 ■ uwtf -
NOTICE. ti
_ ti
THE fubferiber having sent by the {hip Nancy, c]
C&pt. Perry, the following certificates of the "
United States bank (lock, to wit :
No. a6,oC'j, to a6,0i4» inclufi.ve, for three
shares each—and the said vefiel having: been cap
tured on heT intended voyage to England, which L
will mod probaMy occasion Lhe less of the said
certificates, gives this public notice.
That he shall apply at the proper offices for a re
newal of them, and that means have been taken p
to prevent any improper tranj-ter.
Henry Philips,
No. 11a, South Front-street.
' June I. sar.-6w
NOW LANDING,
From on board of the (hip GEORGE BAR
CLAY, Capt. Charlis M'Alestir, from H
Calcutta, the following GOODS, viz. y
Colfas Punjum Cloths "
Hummums Gurrahs a
Guzeenahs India Calicoes '
Emerties Cotton Checks n
Mamoodiss Mulmuls P
Sahans Red and Blue Eernagou a
hkfs 0
Tickeries Patna do.
Jollls Santipofe , do.
Carridarrfes Plain, llriped and flower
ed fine mullins %
Maragunges Ginghams
Baftas, various forts Tafleties Q
Sattln Romals Bandanno red hks.
ALSO, (;
3CO Casks Sugar
40 Boxes do. r
l6j Bags do. a
70.0G0 lb. weight heavy black Pepper c
40,000 lb. weight Ginger
10 Tons Hemp in Bales
9 Pipes Eafl-Ihdia Spirits
Fer sale by PIIILIPS, CRAMOND & Co. j
May 4'. dtf
A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRST & ad proof,
Gin, of 4th proof, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds
Old Hock, in cases of 40 dozen each
Glass Tumblers, in pints and half-pints |
Window Glass, in boxes, of different f:a;es •
Hazlenuts, in foeki
Whiting
w&d
& Spanilh Brown 3
For Sale bv
PETBR BLIGHT.
Jtnuary 4
£rfkine's View of the War. (
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No. 40 Sou:h Second street,
[Price 31 Cents]
A View of the Causes and Consequen
ces of theprefent War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskine.
_May i; §
The Subscriber,
Determined to retire from business, invites all
who have any note, bill, band or acceptance
of his, now due, to call for payment ; and those
■who wish to anticipate may receive the money
at a reasonable discount.
JAMES SWAN.
May iz. diw.
Dorcheftcr. ntarßofloa, 16th May 1797.
JOHN CRAIG
HAS jufl imported from Rotterdam, via St.
Th<J mas, and for sale on [eafonable terms
by thepackage,
Platillas Royal
Haerlem and German linens
Rouens
J Post and ProPatrji Paper
Wafers
Quills
Oziers for Hoops, in Bundles
jCoflee Bags
He has also for Sate,
Best Red Clover Seed
Old Madeira Wine, fit for immediate use
Teneriffe Wine of firft and second Quality
Coffee in Bags and Hogtheads
Jamaica Spirits
ConneQicut Turpentine Soap
Window Glass
Two Trunks of best Patent, Silk and Cottan
Hoficry
April 18. 4*w
'Jonathan Harvey,
No.* 106 SOUTH FRONT-STREET,
HAS FOR SALE,
A generalaflortment of Dry Goods
—Amongst which are—
A few boxes Irish Linens.
May 22 > wfim
To be fold or let,
And immediate ptjfejfvm given,
A genteel two story Brick House ;
SITUATE on the upper end of Broad-street, in
the city of Burlington, with four roonis and
an entry on each floor, good cellars under the
whole, a pump in the yard, a garden and court
yard, containing nearly half ail acre under good
fence, with a stable adjoining the yard. The
whole property is in good order.
F«r terms apply te the fubferiber in Burlington,
who will give a crt-di* fer a considerable part of
the purchale money if nooJ l'ecuriiy is given.
William Coxe, jun.
May J 7. aivtf
The fubfcribcrs, have for sale, the
following Goods, viz : *
OLD Madeira Wine, in prpes. '
Port do. in pipes, hog(hcad» & qr. calks. E
Malaga do. in liogfHeads and qr. calks. ui
Sherry do. in quarter calks. of
Claret do. of excellent quality, in bottles. »[
RulfiaDuclf. m
Do. Diiperand Huckaback.
Coarse Toweling.
Ifing Glass, full fort.
Kuliia while Soap,-cot in fmi'.lbars.
Mould Candle?, in boxes of 6oib weight-
London Porter, in bottles.
100 barrets of good beef. v
A wrought-"ion Book Cafe.
PHILIPS, CRAMOND & Co.
Philadelphia, 2d June, 1797. <1- i
This Day is Published, *
BY MelT* Dobfoo, Carey, Campbell, Kice, and the t)
athet Booksellers,
rice One Dollar and twcniy-fivecffnu.
Elegant y primed on IVovr paper, and Hot■
prejfed.
By John Thrropfon, p
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF c;
The Constitutions
Of the several States with other, and with
that of the United States*: exhibiting in Tables, ft
the prominent features of eaehfiDouftitution, and
cialHug together their most important provisions, ai
urtder the several heads of administration j witk ft
Notes and Observations.
By WILLIAM SMITH, ii
Of South-Carolina,
LL. D, and member of the Congress of *he £
United States.
Dedicated to tha People of the United States.
N. B. A few Copies printed on an inferior pa
per, at 3-4thsof a dollar.
February 6__ mwf
To beTSold at Public Vendue,
At the Merchants' Coffee house, in Philadelphia, -l
on the 15th day of June, at 8 o'clock in the J
evening, if not before disposed of at private
sale,
40,931 1-2 acres of land, on the 1
waters of Wheeling and Fithing creeks, in Wa(h
ington county, Pennsylvania. The foil is remark
ably fertile ; and besides a large body of meadow,
there are considerable improvements on the pre
mifes. These lands were patented in 1787- On
payment of part of thepurchafe money, a reafon
abl« credit will be given for the residue. Enquire
of the printer.
May 15.
Sts
Poft-Office, 23d May, 1797.
THE Mail for Baltimore will be closed at this of
fice every morning (Sundays excepted) at half past 7
o'clock.
The Mail for Boston will be closed every day
(Sundays excepted) at 12 o'clock noon ; and i
The Mail for Frederica, Milford, Clowes, Dagfbo
rough, Delaware, Homtown, Accomack Comt-Houfe
and Northampton Court-House, Virginia, will be ;
closed every Monday morning at half pad 7 o'clock.
May 23. *i2t
Just Arrived,
In the fehooner Dove, Captain Paul, from St
Thomas, and lor sale by the fubferiber.
Muscovado Sugar in hhds' tierces and barrels.
St. Crtix Rum in hhds.
And Laguira hides.
ALSO ON HAND,
Imperial, Hyson, and Sherry and Malaga
Hyson Skin Teas. ' Wines.
Yellow Nankeens. Holland Gin in pipes.
Cant oft Clath. Do. Cheese.
Lutestrings. Do. Glass ware.
Silk Hankerchiefs. China Ware.
Sewing Silk. Window Blinds.
Cotton in bales. Rheubarb.
Peruvian Bark. Quiqkfilver, &c.
JOSEPH SIMS.
May 2id. diijt.
A FEW BOXES OF
Bologna Sausages,
Of a superior quality, to be Sold at No.
199, South Front-Street.
April 20, e °tf
~ Received, by the Indoitan,
From Madras,
A SMALL invoice confifling of the following
Coast Goods, viz.
Blue Cloths
Long Cloths, 14 punjums
Do. do. firie
Madrafs Handkerchiefs, and
Book Mullins
WILLING FRANCIS*
March 17. i*w
COLD /IND SILVER
- Bullion.
THE highest-price in ready money will be gi
ven for gold or silver bullion, old gold or
filve'r, or gold dust, at No. *9, North Seventh
flreet.^
April 20 aaw6w
To be Sold,
A three Jlory brick House, with fuitabic back
buildings ;
SITUATfe in Vine-street, No. 88, completely
finilhed, and free of ground-rent: It has a
neat back yard, in which is a ciftcrn, and new
pump for rain water—commodious cellars are un
derneath the whole, in which is a dry well bricked
up, that will hold ice. This property is well cal
culated for a boarding house. For particulars ap
ply at the premises.
Immediate poffeflion will be given, or so as to
suit a purchaser.
May 15. sawtf
Valuable Books.
A new importation, from London, ufl received
in and now opening and felling by J. ORMROD, No.
41, Chefnut-ftreet.
March 29. co.^p
Musical Injlrument \Manufaclory,
No. 167, Arch-Street.
Is TTARPBT.,harpfichord,grand, portable grand,
Jtl fid:-board, pier table and square piano forte
niakir from London, returns thanks to his friends
and the public, for their liberal encouragement,
and hopes that by his afliduity and attention to ev
— ery branch of his business, to merit a continuance
of their favors. Piano fortes made on the new«t
and most approved plans, with pedals, patent, i
fwcll, and French harp flop, which heflatteici
; himfclf will te found on trial by unprejudiced
in judges, to be equal if not superior to any import
nd ed, and twenty per cent cheaper. Any inflru
he m<.nt purchased of him, If not approvedef in
irt twelve months, he will exchange.
®d
he N.B. All kinds of Musical inftrumentt made,
tuned, aaid repa'res with the grtateft accuracy,
' n - dispatch, and on the most reasonable, terms, fur
ready money only.
Second band Piano Fortes taken in etchange.
May tei uijm.
Spanilli Language.
WAN TED, a person well qualified to trans
late Spanilh papers and documents into the j
Er.glil language. Such a one who cm produce
unexceptionable recommendations, anci is desirous
of iirmediate employment, will plettfc to make
application in writing at ©fiiw of the
miflioners for carrying into effttfl the twenty-firft
article of the treaty ot fricHdfh'p, limits and navi- c
gat ion, between his Catholic majesty and the Uni
red States of America,- — during oiTice hours, or o
at the office of PETER LOHRA, See y. 6
Philadelphia, Ju»c S« 2 3P
■ ■' - b
Southwark Printing-Office, l '
No. 294, South Scc-md-flreet. (
IF -encouraged, Timothy MoUntford, will pub j (
lifti from this office, a 'ne\Vfp»per, ent'tled, I'be £
Scutbzvark Gazette, mnd Philadelphia Reg/Jier; ti»e U
tility ol which, 110 one can doubt of xvho considers v
the diftancc between this and other offices. j
He will fend papers on the morning of every -
Thursday a»d Saturday, to such places as his fubr
fcribers shall diredl.
The price of this Gazette will be Four Dollars
per year, payable as follows : One dollar when
called for—one dollar at the expiration fix
months—and one dollar at the end of every fubfe- J
quent term of three months.
Literary oiTays wiil be gladly received and in- 1
ferted gratis—Advertisements at the usual rates.
Apply to William Ro3iNSt>N,jun. Esquire, <
at his house ia front of the office, who will receive <
fttbfcriptiom. *
Subscriptions will also be received by the follow
ing pentlemen, viz f MelT. Voung, Mills fcJ* Son, \
Thomas Xjobfon, John Ormroi, William JV Wood- I
txard, and Samuel Ricbardet, Merchants Coffee-
House.
May 3F°-
Richard Bay ley & Co.
Late John Whitesides & Co.
No. 136 Market-Jlreet,
HAVE received per the ships William Penn and
Star from London, a large andfafhionable as
sortment of the following articles : viz.
Chintzes, and printed Cottons, of the newest
patterns
Furnitnre Dimities and Chintzes
Ginghams, ,;lain and figured,
Muslins, printed and embroider'd
Do. tambour'd, plain, check and ftrip'd
Do, tamboared, of a very superior quality
Fine Book, Jaconet and Decca Handkerchiefs
Dimities and muflinets
D3tnafc table-linen, in setts and in the piece
Diaper ditto in Cloths and in ditto
Holland and Rufiia Sheetings
Loop'd Hollands and Irish Linens
Long Lawas and Cambrics
Sattins and Silks, plain and figured
Ribbons and Gloves
Crapes and Gauzes
Straw, Chip, and Paper Hats and Bonnets, new
shapes
Fancy trimmings, Sic.
With a variety of articles in the Linen-Drapery
and Haberdalkery line.
May 21 § lot
To be Sold,
A targe and convenient
Three Story Brick House;
SITU a TE at the north-east corner of Arch and
Foarth-ftreets. It contains eighteen rooms—
and is in every refpe& well finifhed. For particu
lars enquire of
M. Keppele,
No. 138, Chefnut-ftreet.
May 31. $
For Sale,
ON board the Clip MoLir, John Frost, matter
from Liverpool, laying at Walnut-street wharf
6000 bufliels of fine (loved Salt,
And QUtEN'S WARE, well assorted,
By PHILIP NICKLIN fcf Co.
WHO HAVE IN STORE, ALSS FOR SALE,
100 Boxes WhiteHavanna Sugars
Imperial and ? j 1 E A s
Hyson )
lytnbs Quicksilver
achefts Bandanno Handkerchiefs
A few chelts Manchester (soods well allcrted
in corduroys, thicksets, ginghams, mufiiuets,
dimities, to. i Trunks black sewing fiik,
180 Crates queens ware, well assorted,
10 Tons sheet lead,
Nails assorted, flat and lharp points,
London particular and > Madeira Wine in
India market 5 pipes and hhds.
30 pipes, 10 hhds. Tenerifie Wine,
10 pipes choice Port ditto,
31 calks yellow paint,
7 boxes 11 bundles writing slates,
I box ink-stands & note prefles,
Sail canvas aflbrted No. 1 a 8.
May 4. dtf
TO BE SOLD,
A valuable three dory Brick House ;
SITUATE in Lodge alley, next to the bank o*
Pennsylvania, the lot on which it stands, to
gether with the vacant lot adjoining, which ex
tends to Goforth-ftreet. The house is about 50
feet in front en Lodge-alley, and about 43 feet
in depth, the adjoining lot is about 96 feet
front on Lodge alley, and 41 fret on Goforth
ftreet, being a street which kails from Chelnut
ftreet and Carter's alley into Dcck-llreet at the
horse market. The house consists of ten lodg-
I ing rooms, with fix fire places, tXVo dining
rooms, one of them ferty feet in length, the
. other ahfut thirty-four feet, each containing
two fire places, two parlours and a large kit
, chen, with extenlive cellars under, and garrets
over the whole, a privilege of a vacant lot
of ground to the eastward between this house
and the bank, a pump of excellent water in the
yard, a handsome piazza floating the vacant
lot, and a frame liable and dwelling house on
Goforth-ftreet. The prernifes now rent for
£.318 per annum. To be fold clear of all in
cumbrances.
For terms apply to John Clement Stocker.
April 10 3*wtf
Philadelphia and Lancaster Turn
1, pike Company.
e -
s A meeting of the Stockholders of the Phila
•• delphia and Lancaster Turnpike Company, will
" be held at the Company's Office, on Monday,
\ 10 o'clock, the nthjune next.
WILLIAM GOVETT. Sec'ry.
' May 11. fr
5 1 ■ ■
* Do&or Perkins '
I TNFORMS the citizens of Philadelphia, that he
n 1 has taken lodging* for a few days at the sign of
the Indian Queen, south Fourth-street. He will
be happy te wait on those who wilh t» l'atisfy
them&lves of the efficacy of his
y\ Patent Metallic Points ;
jr ' And will operate gratis for the relief of the poor
I at his lodgings, where he hu- (or sale the inflru
menu, with the necclary icftruAions for uGrtg
them.
May ig.
THE FOLLOWING VALUABLE ,
Tracts of Land, p
IN the fount? of Glynn and Hate of Georg.a, g(
will be lold by public hie, at eight o'clo,k th
on the evening of Tuesday ttyp : 7'h diy of Jun- m
next, at (be Mcrcliacu Coffee Hiuic jn th.s ci
ty, un!ef>> prerioudy difpofcd of by private lair.
ift. ycoc acres on St. Simons Sou»td at
cpnflnence ortuederica and Turtle rivers, a<U
joining the commons [, i the town 3rno-wi- It,
originally granted to John ilowcli, and vtilk.u
6 nr ilts of the Atlantic orean.
ad. 25 ,oco acres oil the hc.iJ waters of a
branch of the great Sattilla, originally granted
to Ferdinand O'Neal.
3d. 50,00 c sores cn the waters of the !itt»e
,Satilla river, and of BufFaloe and Alexanders w
Creeks ; the great Satilla road paffrs through
these lands, which were originally; granted to l {}
Ferdinand O'Neal. _ |tl
4th. 50,300 acres on the Satilla river, tl
which are also interfered by a branch of the
little Satiila, and were originally granted te
Thomas Spalding. _
It appears by authentic certificates from
Thomas Davis, furveyar, and from Major
Hopkins now refilling in Philadelphia, that the
body of these lands are n-ot thirty miles from
the ocean, and principally within tide wiu*r ; r
that the Alatamaha is navigable for boats and a
rafts two hundred miles above, and tor large '
vessels within ten miles of them'; that they are
chiefly firft rate pine lands, producing timber
equal in quality to any in the state of Georgia, 1
poflefi&ng the fame advantages of navigation.
The abovementionid certificates, together wi{h j j:
the patents, drafts, andather papers refpefling j (
the title, which is complete and unincumbered, £
are in the pofleflion of the fubfci ibers and may a
be feea by applying to Benjamin R. Morgan, at (
No. 5, South 4th Street. The terms of pay- c
mcnt will be one third cash, the remaining two
thirds in good negotiable endors'd notes, paya- (
hie in three and fix months after the sale ; a ,
conveyance to be made to each purchaser on the j
payment of that moiety of the notes received
from him which becomes firft due.
THOMAS FITZSIMONS, i
JEREMIAH PARKER,
BENJAMIN R. MORGAN. 1
Philadelphia, May 31, 1797. eodtf.
The Commiflioners
FOR carrying inte effect the TWENTYrFIRST
Article of the Treaty of Friendlhip, Limits,
and Navigation, between His Catholic Majesty
and the United States of America, hereby give in
fermation to all Persons therein concerned, —That,
in order to terminate all differences, on account of
the lasses sustained by the Citizens of the United
States, in consequence of their Vtffels and Car
goes having been taken by the Subjefts of His Cath
olic Majesty, during the late War between Spain
and France, that they are ready to receive.(at their
Office, between the hours of ten and one o'clock,
daily) all complaints and applications, authorized
by tjie said Aiticle, during Eighteen Months,
Iron the day of the date hereof, and that they have
power to examine all such persons as »ome before
them, on oath or affirmation, touching the com
plaints in qVeftion, and also to receive in evidence,
all written teftimooy, authenticated in such man
ner as they shall think proper to req i re or admit.
By Order of the CommiJJioners,
PETER LOHRA,
Secretary.
C mmijjloners Office, ho. 109, Mulberry
reel, Philadelphia, May 1 -jtb, 1797.
ao—&4W
Millinery Room,
No. 136 Marlet-Jlreel.
MISS CURYRTAL A
TAKES an early opportunity of acquaintii™
her Friends that Ihe has, received by the
William Penn, a variety of NEW MITL
LINERY, &Ci which lhe hopes to be able to
lhew them in a few days.
May 18 s3ot
Lane after, Harrijburgh, Carlijte,
Sbtppcnjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
THE public are requested to take notice, that
the partnerfliip which has for some time sub
sisted between Mathias Slough of Lancaster, and
William Geer, is now dissolved; bpt, Hot as M.
Slough infiniiates to the public without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the iub
je& from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 29th
December last, a recital of which is Rot now deem
ed necessary. Any gentleman who wifiics to be
more ciretimftantially informed of the merits of
this bufmefs, by applying to W. Geer may have
the perusal ef M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfectly juftifiable in attaching him
felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippeni
urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
public were pleased to confer on tl>e firft effort in
• this bufmefs, William Geer, in conjun&ion with
| Meflrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
toprofecuto and carry it on, with every care, at
tention anddifpatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
' lie can poflibly exert.
I The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, and every appurtenance to
render, the passage fefe and commodious, inform
those wno wife to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
• and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg,
; Carlisle and Shippenfburg. The fare as hitherto
eftabjifr.ed.
> For the further accommodation of the public,
a Stage will fUrt every Wednesday from the houfc
; of Samuel Elder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
? tyiry in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
t and return from thence and arrive at Harrifburg
, every Saturday, i<* that paflengers destined for
Lancafleror Philadelphia, may proceed cxi Mon-
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster. Jan. 27, 1797-
N. B. This Line ef Stages Harts' from the
house of William Ferrer, in Lancaster, on every
Tnefday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
" ceeding to the westward; and from the house of
Mr. Samuel Elder ic Harrifburg every Wednes
day morning, cn the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns
from thence en every Thursday : performing the
fame routine daily as in its tour from Philadel
> phia. n'wf
A Compting Hotiie to let.
HPHE Compting Hqufe formerly occupied by
JL Mr. John E. Caldwell v on Rofs* wharf, wiil
" be vacant on lft June —and for hire to any person
P who may apply tor fame. For terms enquire of
jl the printer hereof,
y May 31.
To Let,
yfndpoJf(Jfi° n given in /«•» zveeit,
'I A good 3 flory Brick Iloufe,
g With back buildings— N». 43, Spruce ftriet.
Apply at No. Sp-scc-lireet,
May »6 §6t
St. Andrew's Society,
AT a quarterly minting of the St. Andrew's
Society, held at the Cclden Swan, I aft evening,
the following gentlemen were unanimoully chitsd
m nibers thereof:
Lord Henry Stewart,
The Jlor.nruble Thomas M'Donald,
Mr. H'illiam Alexander,
Copt. Duncan Rose,
JU'%. Jdma Thar bur,
Mr. James 'Stmrl, juy.
Mr. H'iffiam Gardner,
Mir. Samuel GimpbeH, of jV. Y.
The treifur.'r, Mr. ihieldi, pref • ed to the
meeting the fiatctnent of the funds of the ftfeicry ;
whereupon, it was
Refoived, that he be requeued to continue h»
r strenuous exertions to tolled in the arrears due to
the yoor fund, anW make report ot his success
there.u at the ne*t quarterly meeting.
Richard Lake, Secretary.
Juie I. ' SP
Venerea.l Complaints,
PUNCTUALLY attended to in every ft age of
that disease, without the use of mercury or
reftrainL of diet, in any cast recent and f.mpie, on
application at ;No. IXJ, Chefnut-f •eet, opposite
the UuiteJ States hank, or at No. 170, South Wa
ter-street, between Spruce and Pine-ftaeetj, where
he has opened an office for the better accommoda
tion of his patients.
But in Lues Venerea confirmed, Doflor Morgan
pledges himfelf, that no system of cure (hpwtver
! lpecious) can be cffeflual without mercury, and
! that all rtie known rules of piadtice for thele two
centuries past, and united eiparien.ee affirms, that
any substitute for it is but nugatory, and any mode
of pradlice to the contrary mull be futile and de
ception.
Nevetthelefs, he undertakes, however compli
cated the cafe, to effetft a cure without inconve
nience or injury to the patient's eonftiution, and
in time nat generally experienced or expected.
N B. Regular attendance at the office in Water
ftreet, from the hour of nine o'clock in the morn
ing until one, and from three o'clock in the even
ing until seven ; but any oher time at his dwelling
house, in Chefßut-ftreet.
May 16. dtf
For Sale,
By Samuel Breck, jun, at his Compting-houfe.N#,
89, South Tbird-ftreet,
A quantity of the hefi
Boston me:s Beef in whole aad half barrels.
fit for fliip's use
Do. Pork do.
A quantity of Shfrry Wine
A few Pipes Oil Proof Brandy, ju!l landed
from Bordeaux
Chocolate in Boxes
Rice, Cotton, CaftileSoap, and
Four or five Bales large Orange Peels, &c.
May 27. eofit
Pennsylvania Population Com
pany.
NOTICE is hereby given to the Sharehold
ers, that a further afieffment of fifteen
dollars is levied on eacfi (hare, payable in the
following inflalments—ra.
One quarter immediately.
One quarter on the Ift of June.
One qnarter on the iff September.
One quarter on the jft Dec. next.
Which they are requeffed to pay totheTrea
furer of the Company at the Company's Office,
No. 53 north Fourth ftreel, agreeably to the
times above mentioned; and they are further
informed that en their nrgleiling to pay the
fame as above diiefled, ihe several forfeitures
diredled by the Constitution, willl be exaflcd
Jt By order of the Board,
|f 'SOL. MARM'iE,
Treafiircr.
_ May r; jina
' Printed Calicoes.
John Miller, j un . & Co.
No. 8 Chefnut-Street,
Have for Sale
1 FIFTY TRUNKS neatly aiforted, very low 00
short credit.
March 6. §.
] Maurice Moynihan,
i No, 81, North SecondJlreet t
A few doors above Arch-street,
; TNFORMS his friends and the public, that hefois
X for wholcfalc or retail, on the lowest terms, a
1 genejal assortment of Queen's Ware, gilt and cut
- tumblers, plain and flowered quart, pint, half
e gill and half gill do. exaffc ipeafures, decanters and
f wine glafles ; gallon, half gallon, quart and pint
e bowls, and chi' a in (cts and separate ; pecket
e bottles : Schuyikill and Jersey country quart and
half gaUon bottles; it ry Goods, &c. &c.
N. si. Crates put up with care at the fliorteft po
e tice.
May 11. " dtf
Ezekiel Hall
h HAS [removed his Compting Room to Jonet'*
d Wharf, where he has for sale
;; 24 hogftieads Cod Fish.
A Jlore to let,
0 May aQ. 6p
n —: = -
t Rofs & Simfon,
'' Have for Sale,
a Quantity of prime
0 St. Domingo Cotton,
Superior Old Lifbou Wine in Pipes
Excellent Tndia Market
jv 'l'eneriffe Wine,
In Madeira Cailts
p A few Quarter Chefb best
r Fresh Hyfdh and )
Hyson Skin 5 1 LAi>
Muscovado Sugars m-Hogfheads,
Coffee 111 Tierces
March 7. jjtf ,
t £ 1
1 Just Received,
)f From Batavia (via Providence)
f- 170 Sacks of Ja\a Coffee of £rft quilitf
100 half sacks do. do.
is a few BoxcFof Spices, confining of
ie Nvtmegs, Clovciaau
1- For iale by
IViLLINC-S& FRANCIS, ,
Pcm:«ftrect.
M»y 3® dtf
ifi Loll—A Gold Bracelet,
,n Marked S. H. with a double Chain. Any
ot peij'on who may h»ve found it, and -evill return
it at No. 47, Penn-flreet, will be handfomsly
__ rewarded.
May 17. dtf
— — —
Dutch Gunpowder.
A quantity of the best Dutch Gunpswdcr for
sale by Samuel Brcck, juif. Na. S9, south Third
flrcet.
Maya?. eo6t