cf rijc AW Philadelphia Dally Advertiser.,
NVMBES 1552.J
SALES BY AUCTION.
_ j
Stated' Sales
For D R r GOODS.
f Fotsenoon —Edward Fox, No.
~ , 5 south Fronf-flreet, '
an j^f, ernoon —FoMmjn & Co. No. 65 1
C_ South Front-llrect.
( '* Forenoon—John Connelly, Old Cit» !■
_ ... J AuUioii, Nm 7.? luut'h Front-street. '
Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
C_ 183 High-llreet.
w j ti f Afternoon—Peter Beljfon, No. 74
WedMfda?\ f( , uth Third . Urcet .
eri. rt S Forenoon—Edward Fox.
r J" a -' I Afternoon—folin Connelly-.
p I Forenoon —YViHnia Shinnon.
" "y Afternoon—Jjhn Connelly. 1
Saturday Afternoon —Peter Renfon.
For Freight or Charter,
THE good brig
A S U' K E Y, ,
Isaac Vredenburg-, Master ;
~ NOW lyin<; at Clifford's whan, and in compUat
®rder to restive a cargo. For terms please to ap
ply the Captain an board, of ]
John Slyrin,
No. 81, Arch-street.
WHO HAS FOR SALE, ]
2000 wt.of double refined Saltpetre !
' 600 Wt. of F F Oun Powder
300 barrels of Herrings " . '
50 buthels of Timothy Seed ' ' <
150 cafe* of Claret, firlt quality
And aqnantity of Sherry Wine. I
pt. >9- dtf t
HAVANNA SUGARS. ,
FOR SALF, 1
1400 boxes and calks prime white Havan
na SUGARS,
On board tr'e (hip Hamburgh Packet, Silas ■
Sv«ain, Matter, now lyirtg at Maraus Hook, i
For terms, apply to Capt. Swain, on board, to 1
C.ipt. Samufl Smith, in Front, near Wal- i
nut ftrect, or to
Philip Nicllin, & Co. 1
r£""2~V Who offer the said Ship
Hambtlrgh Packet
For SALE ° r CHARTER.
She is ;)io tdn* register, coppered to the bends,
fails remarkably fait, and «an be ready to re
ceive a cargo in a few days.
Sept xi. daw
Antigua Rum,
J.UST arrived at Wilmington, Delaware
State, and no# landing from on board the
Brig A.-live. William Williams, Matter,
One hundred hhds. 3d & 4th proof,
An J for Sale by
Jehu Hollingfworth tsf Go.
Wilmington, Sept. »i. dtf
N. B. The above Brig,
and the brig GAYOSO, are
also for Sale or Charter, and
now readyV receive a cargo
on board, at Wilmington. Apply as above.
For Savannah,
The faft failing (hip,
SWIFT PACKET,
Patrick Gribbin, Mafler,
Now lying opposite th: mouth
of Frankford Creek, has handforneaccoimnodi
tious for paficngers, and will fail on or about
the ift •£ o<s\obcr.
Focfreight or palTage apply to the matter on
board, or of the fubferibers at Frankford, 5 l-J
miles from Philadelphia.
Nalbro & J. Frazier.
Frankford, sSept. 18. dtillO-
For HAMBURGH,
1 —- MfHE Copper Bottomed Ship
jhrfLt* 1 FAVOR IT E, John
Thompson, Miller, now at
Bright's* wharf, and will be rea-
rfy to take in on Monday next,
**— -■ -***»-•- - p Jrt 0 f j,er cargo being engaged
and reidy to go on board. The (hip is so well
known, that it is needlels to describe her. She
is now in compleat order. For Freight or Pas
sage, please to applv at Mr Jeremiah Warder's
Compting House. No. u, North Third street,
to the Matter on bord.
August io.
For SALE,
On board the said Ship, Swedilh Iron, afforte 1
Hollow and Window Glass, Demvjokns, Wrap
ping Paper far Sugar Refiners, Rugs of J & 2
Quality. Please to apply as above.
wf&m4W
' FOILS ALE,
RRETAGNES in cases
German Checksin do.
Camhiick ' .
Plattillas
Oznabrigs
Gold and silver Watches
Window Glass lb by 8
plafs Tumblers in cases
Linseed Orlincafks, &c. &e.
I George Pennock,
103, High-Stmt.
Ju'y 5. 3^_
An elegant House in Arch Street.
TO be let and entered on immediately a large
and elepant hotife at the Corner of Arch and
Ninth Street. There are two drawing moms
a fid on* dining room —the largest is 31 feet by
lb —and two are so conne£led by folding doors
as to ma.ke but one. Also, five bed rooms, be
sides 5 in the garret, well finiihed for fervanti.
There are ttables and a coach house, with evry
for a family. Enquire at No. 19,
in North Seventh ftrcit, or at No. 118, Arch
Street.
Aug. i.;. aaw3ty.
Chocolate and-Muflard
Manufaflured as usual,
Ginger and tfpper ground
Shelled or Pearl Bariey
Philadelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder
London Porter
Taunton and Burton Ale
Red Port and other Wines, eithe hntt'.ed,
or hy the pipe, qnarter-caflc or gallon—suitable
for exportation or home consumption
For Sale by
yohn Haworih.
No. 98 south Front llre.tr
PHILADELPHIA: WEDNESDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 4, I?<j7.
Public notice is hereby" given,
To the Frsemen of the City and County of
fhiladelphia, and the County of T)darvctrt, .
4.V1 a General EUiAion will be field on "
Tuesday the xoth day of Oiflob'r next 1
the eleflion to be opened between ihe hours of
10 o'clock in the forenoon, arid 1 o'ctftck in rf- |
terno«n —when the freemen of city of i'hi- J
ladelphia. ire.to meet at thj State-house, iu tfce
said city, to elefl J 1
Si* rcprefentatives for ihe said city in the gen- '
eral afiimbly.
Twenty perlbus for members T>f common
. council.
Four persons sot members of the felrtf coun
cil, ift the room of Francis Gurney, Godfrey
Haga, i-!enry Pratt, and Read, whole
tirfie expires. a
The freemen of the coutjty ps Philadelphia t
-s eldft ' h
Six representatives for the said county ingge t
nsral aflembly. e
The freemen of the city and county of Phila
delphia to eledl
Twopei sons for fherifF.
One person for county commissioner.
The freemen of the city and county of Phi- I
ladelphia, and the county of Delaware, to elet\
One fena'.or for the (late.
The freemen of the county of Block ley and
Kingfelßng.yire to hold their f luelipn at the 1
Staxe-houlam the city of I hilade.'phia.
The freemen of the Northern Liberties, are
to hold their etfftion at the Town-house, in Se- j
cofid lirett continued, above Coats's ftrt-et. j 1
The frecrueu of the t«>wnlh;<»of Gerra'jnrowr, I t
Roxborough and lirillol, are to lidld their elec
tion at the Utiion school-house, in Qermantown.
The freemen of the tawnfliip.of Oxford, F!y
bery, t®«'er Dublin and Morelaiut, are to hold
ther eledlion in the house late John Barnfley's in
UuHeltown, in |he town&ip of Lowsjr Dublin. (
And the freemen of the dihiiit of South
ward and the townlhiji of Moyaraenfing and (
Paffyanek, are lo hold tneir election at the com- 1
miffioner's hall, iu the dillridl of Southwark a- ;
forefaid. '
The co'nftablesof each ward, diflriift, &c are
to hold their eleilions in the different oittriifla,
ta choose their infpeflors and afleffori for the
ensuing y«ar, and give their attendance at the
time and refpeftive places
JOHN BAKER, Sheriff. |
Sept. 29. 'ltk
The Norfolk 'Vlail iiTAGE.
npHIS Stage starts from the GEORGE Tavern, '
L the corner of Secoad and Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, every Turf/ay, Tburfday, and Satur- 1
Jay, at 3 o'clock, ia the ir orning ; arrives at Do
ver the firft day, at Snowhill the second day, at
Northampton Court House the third day, and on
the morning of the fourth day the paffengcrs find
a fafe and comfortable packet to convey thom to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton ferry,
every Tuesday, Thursday and' Saturday, and the
Stage starts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
Monday, Wodnefday and Friday ;|puts up at Snow
Hill the at Dover the ad night, and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day.
l'hediftance on this routr, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is Jo miles less than on any stage route
between those placet
Too much cannot be said in favor of the rQpd,
which is most excellent inde®d. The proprietors
wdlingly engage to return the whole fare to ally
passenger, who', after having performed this route,
will fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the fame
distance, so good a road in America.
Anguit 11. dtm.eotf.
This Day Published,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of
% Second and Chefnut ftrccts,
Price 3-8/Z»/ of a Delhir t
Observations on certain Documents
Contained i* No. V and'Vl of j
u The History of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In which the cu arcs of speculation ngainft
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secretary of the T»f asury» i» FULL\
REFUTED.
rr rlt T$ N Br himself.
This publication presents a covcife statement
of the base means pravSlifed by tl»e Jacobins of the
United States to asperse the chqradlers of rhof#
persons who are conlidered as hoftik to their difor-
fchemes. It also contains the cor
respondence between Mr. Hamilton and-Mtflr*.
Monroe, Muhlenbcrgh and Venab'e, on the lub
jedt of the documents alorefaid, and a series of let
ters from James Reynolds and his wile to Mr. Ha
milton, proving beyond the poiliMTity of adenbf,
that the connexion between him and Reynolds,
was the result of a daring eonfpiraay on the part
. of the latter and his aflociates to extort money.
A discount of one third from th« retail price
will be made in favor ot wholtfale purc'iafers, for
cash. Orders to be addreflcd to Mr Yo»nc.
Auvud
No. 188.
DiJlrlß of to wit :
( \R E 11 REMEMBERED, that on the
(L. 9. j twerty sixth day rrf July, in the twen
ty second year of the independence of the United
States of America, John Fenno, of the said d:f
tri&,hath depofitcd in thisoflice the title of a book,
the right whereof he claims as proprietor, in the
words followipg, to wit :
" Observations on certain! documents contained
" in No. V. and VI. of 4< The History of the Unit
? " ed States for the year 1796," in which the charge
1 " of speculation, against Alexarfder Hamilton, late
s il Secretary of the Treasury, ia fully refuted—
{ " Written jjp^himfelf '* *
s In conformity to'he ail of the Congref* of the
. Ucited States entituled, "An a»fl for the encour
agement of learning, by securing the copies of
y maps, charts and books to the authors an<f propri
etors of such copies, durii\g th« times therein men
-1 tioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk of the Dtjlrifi of Pcnnfylvania.
- July 17. W4\v
TO BE SOLD VEi< CHEAP !
A Light W A GGON almost new, with a frame—
and a pair of harncft (E/iglilh collars) has never
been used—price oq Dell*.
r A Horse r6 hands high, seven years i\M—and a
new chair, with a tailing top and harnefs —3 10 -
Enquire N<j. 331, Markct-llreet
August 2 4. d I w
c Excellent Bourdeaux Brandy
Ditto d tti Claret in cases
Tuft received, and for Sale by
Rvndle £s' Leech.
Au\ it. a awtf
By John Fenno, N O, 119 Chefnut Street
CUSTOM-DOUSE,
Philadelphia, Sept. aid, i 7n .
THE Merchanu'who at this time lUeter hav- Su
ing their vefTflt and Merchandize eiiterrd and M
cleared at Chefi-tr.or Marrca Hock, —are here- si
by notified, That in eprnplunce with tlitir de- '«
fire, and upun a full ennvjet on that the nitafure t0 _
wiH be mutually b'wvefifSl to them ar.d lojthe a,:
United Stati-s. Tht- e; of the cuftoir.s has J'
tnade arranpeftents to eilaf>li ,rl i frf .me time
bisuehes of the euf;««i-houfe ■ "*«»:e place,
whey:.every accommodation in his pi«n*r will
he given to the merchants. diw
c : TO BE SOLD,"" 7 " t
And immediate poffejfmi given,
A Convenient well finithcl Brick ! enemfnt, 01
with a cook house and other out houfe - ., ftta
atcd iua plca'am part of th« borough of WdftOg
ton, in |the St.ite of Delaware, lot of ponid
has forty fe* j\o*>t on W«ft-nreet. and extends u
through the fcjuare to Paftur -street, on which
a liable and carriage hor.fc.
ALLEN M'LANE.
Aug. to. r
f Lately Publiftied, b ;
Tn oue vol. 8 vo. Cprici* one dollar in boards) fold t(
l>v WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of Second and u
Chefnut greets, c(
A Colleftion ef Papers on the fubteft of j r
Bi'ilious Fevers/ prevalent in the United ai
States for a few years past.
Compiled hy NOAH IVFBSTF.R, jun. 11
Coo'aining letters from Doctors Seawap, Smith,
Bi' l, Taylor, Ran'.fay, Monfon-, Reynolds, Mitch
e'l.on contagion, See. Sic. '
1 • <t l(
—■—— ■ i i i a 1
City Conanijfioaers Office, ' f J
August 29, 1797.
.IN pursuance of an Ordinance of ihe Se>d and. i
ComtUiK Councils, palfo3 the lid day <if May last.
PropnfaU in writing will he rejeiv-*! hv.the City j (
ComnnfConers for 00 * nionth from «he xO of Sep-
temhrr nest, for letting to i(tnt 00 ieafts for one c
year to commence the firft day of J»r*irj next, the t |
followir j public property of the city—
The wha>f an J landing on Vine Street, a
Also oa SalTafra«, c
Mulberry, 0
A-nd High Streets, u
Chefnut and Walnut Streets, Braw
th« Scale and Filh Houses, Spruce, Pine and Cedar
Streets.
The cellar under the City-Hall.
The Tavern at the middle ferry on Schuylkill,
with the lots contiguous thereto, (except so much
thereof as (hall be occupied by any buildings ere&-
ed for theufeofthe Collector of the Tolls, or be
neceflary for the toll-gates.)
, tAng. 3 3tawjm.
LOST,
ON the Paffyunk Road, between the Blue Ball
and the city, a Fowling Piece, with a brass <
barrel and silver fight; on the plate of the butt are 1
th« letters " Jamaica, 99"— and on the barrel ?
near the lock '• London" and the Tower stamp. 1
Whoever will return the 1 aid piece to Join Benaard, (
at the sign of the Blue Ball on the Paffyunk Road, 1
or the office of this Gazette, lhall receive a reward
of Four French Crowns, 1
Kept. la. *3t <
DUTY ON CARRIAGES. '
Notice is hereby Given,
r T"'HAT agreeably so an aft of Conjjrtfs «' t'ae
1 United States of America, pafled at Phila
delphia, tfce 38th day of May, *79 6 5 laying du
ti.s on Carriages for the conveyance of persons,
which lhall be hept by or for any person,' for his
or her own use, or to let out to hire, or for the
conveyance of paffengcrs, the fevCral duties and
rates following, to wit :
For and upon every Coach, IJ dols.
unou every CI ariot, II doll,
upon every Poll Chariot, 12 dols.
upon every Post Chaise, ti dols.
upon every Phaeton, with or without top,
9 dols.
upon every Coachee, 9 <ft>l*.
upon other Carriage*, having pannelwork
above, with blinds, glasses Or curtains,
9 dols.
upon fisur wheeled Carriages, having fra
med pods and top» with (leel
dols.
upon four wheeled Carriages, with wood-
i«on fprirrytor jacks, 3 dols.
ttpon Curricles with tops, 3 dois.
upon Chfiifes with tops, 3 >lols. ,
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols.
upon othvr two wheel topcarriages, 3 dels,
upon two wheel carriages, with steel or
iron (pringx, 3 dols.
For and upon all other two wheel
upon every four wheeled cirriage, having
, framed posts and Vips, and veiling up
on wooden spars, 2 Jo!s
■ The Colleftors of the Revenue for the firft Sur
vey of tht Diftfift of Pennsylvania, will attend
: daily, until the jcth day of September n-xt, lor
the puipofe of receiving the duties 011 Carriages, at
Gcrmantown ; at the house of Daniel St. Clair,Efq.
in the County of Montgomery; and at the houle
of James Chapman, Esq. in the County of Bucks;
of which all persons {foffclfed of such Carriages arc
deiired to take notice.
: Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dif
! tilled spirituous liquors, that licences will begrant
" ed to them ; one licence for carrying on the bufi
• nefsof retailing of Wines, in a less quantity, or
c in less quantities than thirty gallons—and one li
cence for carrying on the business of retailing Spi
rituous liquors in less calamities than 10 gallons, at
" the fame time apd at the fame places, by the offic
' crs legally sutharifed t» grant such licences,
e WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpevlor of tlie Revenue of the firft Tui
vey of the Ditlrift of Pennfylvarria.
* Office ol Ir.fpeiftion at ■> Im
; Gf-mantow, nth Sept. 1797- 3 *
. i M PORTED
- in th« (hip America, James Ewing, mailer, from |
Hamburgh,
Brown Hollands
White Piatillas
Ticklenbnrgs
~ Coatfc LiDetiß
Tapes ■ r
- Looking G.la(Tes "> ; n
r Glass I timMfrs .j
FOR SALE BY
a - George Pennock.
t Ajjgdf} r4. .iaW
. 7fct laying Duties on Stamped Vellum,
'Parchment and Paper.
A FF.W copies ahovoa may be had v
th* Oili<e of th? Gaze: e of the United States, No
no, Chcfnut-flreet. J u 'y 19*
An UMBRELLA
Vv"Arnlcen (supposed to have been ftolert) on
Sundny eveivng Uft, from the house occupied by
Mr. Slunt, No 9, Strawberry-ftreetlt is agrern Tj"
si k. of the middle fizc, with a red mo- X
rocco top and hooded ivory hcai.—Conceiving it Wl
to have been taken Hy fonie pilfering knave, vvhq, ti<
a»?uU y arcd S' pscuniaty motives, may endeavor to Rg
vend the f i rn», vhy pcrfen or persons to whom the Ra
i?.i I I T ;»,.l»r«411 <nay be offered, are desired to it; Ba
ar.d it 2* hoped, wSJI .apprehend and* convifl the He
thiol to jufiice. The pecuiiai iry of t£c Umbrella Di;
will, cvirtentljr, the poflTeiTor to detection j En
therelbre, whoever appreheads the faffie and deliv- Co
trs.it at Mr. Blunt's, from whence it was tah en, -r
or at Mr. Febuo's otnee, fiiiill be handsomely re- Fn
warded. O<SI. J. —<' vt AI
LOST,""" u!;
"ON the Frankford road, a Can cl's hair ?n.iw(, Wi
Any person who"will return it to the
have * rca r onable reward. ,
i'o be Sold,
And immediate poffeflion given,
THAT, elegant feat, c:*lled BLOOMSHC V.Y,thc
reli lence of the late Joiin tox, Efq with a- q 0
bout 50 acrtsof Land, situate on the Deiawa'e, ex
tending from the mouthof Afianpickcrefk, tuTren- gQ
ton ferry. The mansion house it a handfeme wel! U p
ccnftruifted brick building, 50 t y 40 feet, contni'i
ing fntir room>on each floor, with excelleat cellars, j- U£
and a two fiory brick kitchen. Amorp the oia ua
buildings are a ilone coach house and stables, fnf- |j c
iicieut tn contain fix cirriagea and ten horf- s, and p a ,
a Hone cow hrui'r, upwards of 100 feet jn lergth.
j There is also a t'onc f.rin house with com cnb»,
I -v-trgon house, &c. &c. The whole of tie jTerai
fes proposed to be fold with this feat, from their fitu
a'ion and iuiprovervnts, are such as to be worthy
the attention of any gentleiran wiftiing to retire
from the city. There are »iso abcut *5 acres ad
joining the above, which will be d : vidcd so as to
accommodate the purchasers. Alio, 100 acres ad
joining the tf>wn lrj» on the eafl fide of the flrcet
leading from Trenton to Lamberton, which wilt
be fold together or in lots, as may best fait the pur
chaser, and 130 acres of woodland, two r»ite* from 3,
the above land, which will also be divided if re
quired. The ot'payment will be made easy, -j
---and an indisputable title j;iven. For fnrttpr parti
culars enquire of Mrs. Cox, No. 144, South Fourth
fireet, Philadelphia, John Stevens, Efq Hoboc
ken, Mathias Barton, Esq. of Lancaster, or the
fubferiber at Trenton. ta
MASKELL EWING. ir
Trenton, Sept. a 5, 1797. w
Sept. 30. dtf. be
Sundry Lots - c "
IN the following Squares in the City of Walhing* eh
ton will be exposed to Public Sal*, by the sub- cb
fcribcrs, on the second Monday in Oflober next, at
at the Little Hotel, in the said City, to com- le
mencc at 10 o'clock -
Square No. 32, 41, 43. 44, 47> 48,49, 5°.55> fa
66, 69, to, 73,74,7J> 7 6 > 77. 7 s . 79> lOI > fc
iox, 105,118,119,140,141, 61,56, 84,104, 87, la
88, 89, I*4, i»4, 185, l* 0 ' 6l > 80,103, ej
square east of square fouth of square 104,
square north of square 81, square east of square 88,
square north of square I »8. _ '
These Lots are advantageously situated in the
neighborhood of the Pre ft dent's Square, and deem- J"
ed equal in value to any in the city, and will be r
peremptorily fold; clear and valid titles will ba c>
made to the pui,chafer, on receipt of the purchase
money. Terms ef sale, arc, good notes, negotia- 1
blc at the Bauk of Columbia, one fourth part in
ore month, one other fourth in three months, otie
other fourth in five months, and the remaining one
fourth in fevcu-monthi. 1
WILLIAM DF.AXINS, j-n.
URIAH FOHkEST.
Sept. si.
_ ; n
Bank of North America, '
September Bth, 1797* t
OV Monday m'xt the Notice, lor all Notes or n
Bills payable at this Bank,which fall dueonthat f
and the eni'uihg 6 days, will be I'erved on the P:'.v. ,
ers : 'nd the like Notices 011 cveiy Monday, till t
the further orders of the Director*.—'Persons v. ifh- f
ing to depoflt N»tes or Bill* for Colleiliun, which (
arc to fall Ate within the week, must tl emfdves
' undtitake to give not'te to the Payers. dif
At the Federal Blast Furnace, \
In Carver—for Slitting, Platting, and Rali.ng r
Mills. i
i( \ SEYMOUR'S Patent Rollers.
TlibLi superiority cdnjjlj in being free from 1
boles and honey-combed plates, <wbicb are com- <
■ mo'dy found in rollers cast in fund, or clay t
• moulds. Theft patent rollers are cajl in iren t
moulds, -prcjW'Jly healed, and will be found to <
be more dttife, foltd and durable than any rcllei s
: heretofore used. Another important art-vantage <
" they, have over others, is, that the necks require 1
no turning, but are irtimedailely ft for use, and '
j from their accuracy, run with less frill ion. and '
' require irfs water to make them perform their
: work. They may be had hy application to the
r Patentee in 'Plymouth, of Gen. Nathaniel Gcou-
J win, or of Meffrj. Thatcher and Hay ward.
Bcjlon, Aug. 31. r 9
y Sept. L 19. —§tt.
Mr. L AI L S ON,
WITH an intention to render service, and unde
ceive those Performers, who durieghis absence Mr.
1 Jaymor.d has thought proper to engage, thinks it
would be wrong in him not to inform those that
r are engaged, that it is withou his approbation, and
that he will not be in any way answerable for r
Taymond's engagements.
; . PHILIPPE LAILSON.
. Alexandria, Sipt. 15. 1797- 6t - .
the subscribers,
ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GREEN LEAF,
l-lEUEBY give notice, that they have diljiofed
of the property afligncd to them for the securing
* the payment of the note , acceptances, _»nd en
" doifements given by Edward Fox, for the use
of the ftiid James Greenleaf; and the holders of
n such notes, acceptances, and endorfetnerts, are
hereby notifyed tlia' the fubferibers will feJtle
with them for the amount of their refpetSlive
- claims, both principal and intrkest, at
any time beforc'the actli day of October next;
after which dav, the holder" not applying, will
be exi luded, agreeably to the terms of alTign
ment.
Application* to be made at fonth eifl corner
of Dock and Second tliwts (the Dock-llieet.
fide), hetween the hoars of eleven and one o'
*u*k every dry, Sundays excepted'.
! v Henry Pratt,
7ho. IV. Francis,
'John Miller, j .'n,
'John Afhl'y,
Jaiob L'alfr,
Philade'pl ia» 18, 1797. (!
Thomas Herman Leuffer,
North Fifth street, corner of' North alley, No. 34,
HAS FOR SALE,
T EXCELLENT red Bourdeaux Wine in cases and
-i boxes, fix years old
Whirr Oipve*"Wine in c;.fe« t
Tirktentmrgs
Russia Suil Cloth^
Rave 115 Duck
ii ■ ■Linen
HefTirirs . , % - , '
Diaper anil Table CJlotli
Empty bags
Cotftßion Liermaß Cfoth
n affortmentof black cotoured Ribboat
Fine German Laces
About twelve-tons P.uffia clean Hemp
Clover Sect*
Italian Soap, in small boxes, for family ps«
Window Glass 19. —law
THIS I>AY WAS PUBLISHED,
And for Me hy 7 HQM/1S at the
Srorie Hrmfe* No. 41, south Second ftreet^
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR,THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED.
Confining of£ variety of Miscellaneous Pieces for
thcinftru<fli<sTi and amufementcf YOUNG PER
SONS—SixVolumeshandfomely printedand boujd
up in two volumes, price Two Dol'ar*.
The variety and excellence of these pieces are
such, that the book needs only to be known t*> be
univetfaity efieemed one of the most valuable pub
lications th t can be put into the hand* of young
persons.
Delightful task to rear the tender thought,
'l'o teach the }*oun£ id.a haw tu Ihoot,
I'o pour tie frefli inflrudlion o'er the rni/id,
To breathe th* enlivening fpitit,a{jd to fix
The generous purpoi'e in the glowing bre^ft."
Thomsom.
Anguft 24. Riwf4w
THIS D vY IS PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS J)OD:WX y at the Stone Houfa,
No. 41, south Second street,
Letters and Conversations,
Between several Yoang Lcdiet, on improving and in
teresting fubje&s.
Translated from the Dutch of Madame de Camion
with alterations and improvements,
Printed onfine paper, and neatly bound-,
Price one dMar.
AMIDST the tide of modrrn Renrsnces, painting
tales ®f extraordinary diflrefs, ot of defperats of
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," and
which it would be for the honor of young ladies to
be ignorant of, this little book comes forwatd to so
licit notice, wh<;re. in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds of real life, tht proper, becaufx
elegant and natural dignity and importance of tht Female
cbaraHer is exhibited in an interefling point of view,
and prefentt examples of real and attainable excel*
lence.
The publisher was fomuch pleafodwith the per»
sal, that he was persuaded he should do a pleasing
fcrviceto the community by fending it into circu
lation. August 24 —mw^w
To Majlers and Pilots bringing up Vejfelt
from Foreign Ports to this City.
TTTHereas sundry infringements have lately been
VV made on the laws of this slate for the pre
venting pestilential or infeSious diseases, either
from ignorance or inattention thereto, it is tho't
expedient at this time to publish th< following ex
tracts from the laws of aid April, 1794, ?tll
Bth fe&ions.
HEALTH-OFFICE.
June 6th, 1794.
Extract of an ad for fecttrir.g the city and port
of Philadelphia from the introiuSion of pefli
l-ntial and contagious diseases.
, - Sfct. 7. And he it further ena<fted, that retry
mailer or captain of any Clip or vefTcl coming from
fca (veflels ailually employed n the coaftmg trade
excepted) andhcund to any port or place within
the jnrifdnftion of Prnnfylvania.fhat) eaufe hisfnip
or veiTel to be tfßhght to anchor,or otherwise flay
ed it) tbe dream of the river Delaware, oppefit# to
the Health-Office on Statt-Ifland aforefaid, and
there to remain lintil he shall have duly obtained a
certificate or bill of heath from the RefidentPhy
lician. Andil, pre vieufly to obtaining such certi
ficate or bill of health, any nfafler or captain (ball
fvfier hisfhip or vefTel to approach nearer than the
' said Health Office to (he ciiy of Pkiladeiphia, or
(hall land, caufo orfuffer to be landed, or brought
on (hore, at any pluce cr port within this Corr.-
mfcnwealth, or at any other port or ylsce, with the
i'lteHt of beirg conveyed into this Commonwealth,
any person or persons, crjxy goods, wares or .mer
chandize, or, if after receiving such bill of health
o. certificate, he (hall negl il or refufe to deliver
the faiu* the Health-Officer, such matter or cap
tain f.iall forfeit a«:(l p y, for each and every such
> offence, the far.i of five hunbrfd dollars.
Apd the captain cr mailer df every ship or ves
sel fball fend a fafe aad boat to bring
, the f.hyCcian on bourd|pr<k fnall in like manner
1 convey him back to the n'STth-Office, after he has
I coucluded his oflicial examination ; And while he
nial-.ing such examination, or in <afe any fubfe
<juert examiii"t ; on by the Heal h Officer cr Con
iuiting Pi yfician, agreeaUy to the d recSions of
thi ■xd, the iKalltr or captain shall expose or caule
to beexfofed to the fearih of the Relident Phyfi
cisn.or of the Health Officer and Consulting Physi
cian (as the cafe may be) each and every part of the
ship or vessel, and fha.l present to his view each
and every perfjon cr perfors on board thereof, and
and lhall aifo true and fatiafaflory answers mifc
" t > all luch queflions as the Resident Phylician, fee.
•lit the time of examination shall ask relative to the
j health of any pcrtor place fr«m which the ship or
L veil'cl failed, or has since touched at—the number
of perfoiH 011 board when the fliip or vefftl entered
on her voyage —the number of pcrfons that have
Gnce been landed or taken on board, and whun
- and whererefpeiSively—what persons on board—
s they have been during the voyage, or shall, at
the time of (t> mination, be infc&ed with any pet
tilenhal or contagious dileafe—and what isthe pre-
L sent state and condition of the persons on board
with rcTptA to their health or diseases. And if
any miUer cr captain shall refufe to expose ns afore
e aid, to the search of any of the officers aforefaid,
}l n if he l\)a.l\.conceal any fici perjiw, or in any other mw
e ,er deceive lue proper opcets aforefaid in bis anhvttt,
' e nch captain or mailer, for every such offence, shall
e forfeit and pay the sum of lrim übkohb soiv
lt L/V.KS.
i SecT.S. And if STJ verfon or persons whatfo-
II ever (the Rcli-.icnt V'hyfician, A.c. excepted) shall
1- go on bpfrd any vcirel, befere the ma: a thereof
has received a certificate cf hssl-.h intn. manner
t r direitet 1 , every person so offending, shall pay th*
Ct urp of o*l UONDRED DtII.LARS
if 1
!T abfolutely necefTaiy that the foregoing
frtUons fliouid be punctually eon>plied with, the
fu'ofiribcr, in compliance his duty, rouSi cx
'aCl 1. Vigorous 0! f.-rC'aiice of the fame, or else be
under Yi* nccrfiitV of puttirjg the laws in force.
'■/fit. AI.I.VN, Health r Jf-'' r °f %
Put of IWadiphtc.
Ju'? t-i.
[Volume XII.J* ■**•»'>»;t j-i'wt •■-■« 'HWl^iup*
%ijt-<^ttte,
P H I LA D E LP HIA ,
. WEDNESDAY EVENING, Octobh» 4 .
■ .-^■»^,.... wfc , --■ r iT-wrribi—im wi i
At a mett?riEC of a numt-erof the citizens
•■ ; Philadelphia, held at the' Union School
!i --il'- in G>rmanto\vn, on Saturday, the
jot'i day of September, 1797 :
It was agreed unanimoufiy, to recom
mend the following gentlemen as suitable
ch;'rafters to the offices which precede
their fefpeftjve names :
1, hmber of~itJ>e_ Snate of the slate of Penn
sylvania, for tht dijlrift cvmpafed of the
c'Ujf and county of Philadelphia and county
t>f Delawa.c :
Benjamin R. Morgan,
ji Umbers of the House of Representatives for the
City ps Pbilndehhia.
■ George Latimer Robert YValn
Jacob Hiltziieimer Lawyence Seckel
Joseph Ball Francis Gurney.
Members of the Select Conned of the City of
Ph 'dadelphia :
Godfrey Haga Henry Pratt
James Read Francis Gurney.
Members of the Cetnmon Council cf the City ■
of Philadelphia :
Matthias Saddler Michael Keppele
James Todd Walter Franklin
Thoma» P<>rkcr, Thomas All'bone
Ottorge Pennock Ja,mes S. Cox
Edward Pennington, Henry Drinker, Jun.
Iter.ry Wharton, Cufpar W. Morris
Jcfepjji Hopkinfon Thomas P Cope
Tiif;m;s Greeves . Levi Hollingfworth
Conrad Gnhard Lawrence Herbcit
Gideon H. Weils George Fox.
Publiflied by order ps the Meeting,
HENRY PRATT, Chairman.
JOHN HALLO WELL, See'ry;
7HE TTRANNT OF DEMOCRATS
llss become proverbial evfery where : but
it is in At.xrica that it has dared to break
forth with peculiar virulence and malignity.
Not content with persecuting pAtriolifm,
virtue, aod every species of orthodoxy, in
every shape, it is here that it has, witji the
mod aba.iduncd malevolence, organized it
f»'lf into a regular corps for purposes of
persecution ; and it is here that whoever at
any time can muder up hardihood enough
to walk uprightly, .mud previously fortify
h<mfdf againfi all the moftdefperate assaults
from batteries manned by the united force
of the whole horde of ruffian-looking de
mocrats.
In this course they have but too long,
and it mtid be confeffed, but too fuccefs
fully perfevcred. The time is come when
an united effort of all friends to rational
liberty to cry ft this formidable hydra, is
loudly caft-d for by every tie which allies
the mind of man to poffeflions, without
which life is of no eflimation.
In pursuit of this abominable and mod
abandoned career, every principle of honor
and every tie that ever has been held sacred,
have been facrificed and set at nought.
Distinguished merit, the mod didinguifhed
and mod difintereiled services, indead of
being a proteftion, have served as fignal
marks for tile dircftion of their attacks—
and in the general chafe, good qualities
taqmfelves have been alike hunted down ,
with their possessors.
But, when a brother has chanced to be
glanced at, in repelling with the weapons
of felf-defence, their malignant and affaflin
like assaults, the whole nest of vipers is
indantly set in motion, and " profccute
liim, break him up, cut him in pieces," is
the general cry. Tyranny, thjr name is
Jacobinism.
1
Francis I. of France, became the scan
dal of Chridendom, for concluding an alli
ance with Sojyman, the Magnificent, Em
peror of the Tarks. But the butchering
fans-cilllotes who have murdered his de
fendants, can fraternize with the bearded
disciples of Mahomet, without fuffering the
flighted imputation. For, in faft, such is
the reverie of things, the shame and dis
grace now lies wholly on the fide of the
Turk. The Turks are in truth pretty ex
pert murderers ; but their skill is seldom
exercised out of the finall fuch as
lopping off the grand vizier's head on the
loss of a battle, and fo-forth. They have
hitherto fuffered mui lcr—But if the ruth
less Gaul is once let in atr.ongft them, they
will be faught higher lejfons even than that
of Ifmailow.
From the NEIV-YORK GAZETTE.
CONCLUSION
" Of the Hi/lory of the conspiracy of Louis
Ph 1 l 1 p pe-Jos e phd'Orlean s, fir named
Egalite, page 229 of vol. Third
Tranflatedfor this Gazette.
"If there is* a fpeftacle worthy of being
profoundly meditated, it is that Nvhich em
pires offer at the moment of their fall,—
These great bodies have not,, any more than
individuals the privileges of immortality.—
All here below is fubjeft to change—to dis
solution—to death ; the Deity »!one is un
changeable.- One nation is born, grows
Up, raises itfelf to a/ great height," then falls
and perishes : this is,the circle, traced by
the finger of the Almighty to societies of
men. Among the multitude of nations who
have by turns covered this globe, there are
foitie, whose names even are swallowed up
by time,
" But it is impofllble to the legislator to
preserve his inductions from the ravages of
time, it out of the power of the maders
of the world, to give to the great family
whose prefervatiqn is confided to them, a
high degree of fortune, to give it even the
duration of the world. There are ( in efFeft
remedies for all difeafiJ of the body-politic ;
it is a regimen which, in cnertrfmg its
drength, in nu'.rrifhiiig'its health, prolongs
its life, and in finding it out, coafills foltly
the art of governing. ,
'• To out th'.i regimen, we mud a
bovtr all examine study her leffous,
enrich ourfclvcSTiy the Apevience.of pad a
ges, draw wisdom from the,errors of gene
rations-which have passed away, and in con
templating those horrid causes which break
the foeial ties, learn to preserve the people
from the convulsions of anarchy. It is in this
refpeft that hidory, according to the -ex
pression of Cicero, if the light of truth and
the rule oflife.
" We are going to read the causes which
have dedroyed a monarchy, which fourteen
ages had fixed on a basis that was thought
immoveable. This phenomenou happened
in a ftort space of time, from a train of e
vents the mod intereding, and which have
succeeded each other with such rabidity that
the eye cannot without, difficulty follow
them Shall the p:3ure of these events be loft
to pnjlerity f Is the hidory of the: late di
faders of France only a vague tS'efiry of
government which every one may cenfiire or
approve ? Are the truths which it presents,
only abftraft political maxims, which the
statesman is forced to ahandon because they
have for foundation the Jiumari puflions,
which vary eternally ? No, it is a generati
on calling around herfelf all generations,
and by a sincere avowal of her errors and
her crime .5, points out to them the path they
. ought to take,not to lose thcrnfelves in the a -
byfs of anarchy. To make this voice heard,
I have 110 need- of giving up myfelf to my
senses—to abound in reaTonhigs. Prin
ciples discover themselves easily when fafts
speak, and 011 the which I have writ
ten, all red on fadls. The aftors who have
appeared on the Theatre, have pulled off
their rr.afks ; we can read the mod secret
thoughts of their fouls ; we can follow with
, the eye all the windings of their hearts.—
On this Theatre man appears not as he is
painted by writers of by poets and
by philosophers, but as he fliews himfelf na
ked and undi'fguifed, where his weakness is
deprived of the double support of laws, hu
man and divine. What mpre proper to re
cal to his mind what he owes to his fellow
creatures, to his fellow-citizens, to the maf
tet of the nniverfs, than the fiiameful i
mage of this nakedness ? What course of
morality is more edimable than a faithful re
cital, where all the illusions on the true in
tereds of societies, of their chiefs, of their
members, are dissipated, where we may fee
every species of pafiian afloat, aft without
cortdraint—overturn thedronged barriers—
break down objefts in appearance insur
mountable.
" You, who read this hidoi-y, in whatever
age heaven has given, or may give you birth,
forget not that he who wrote it, was a wit
ness of the events therein recited ; he was
the contemporary of those men, who, some
through wickedness, others through impru
dence, engendered or precipitated those e
vents ; he lived with some of the workmen
of the dissolution of the fined empire of Eu
rope ; he read their confcienccs as easily as
he did hii own; he knows all the empoisoned
sources from whence flowed so many scour
ges. It was on the wrecß of this unhappy
country, in the midd of carnage, of blood
and of deadjsodies, in the noise of the groans
cf innocence, and of the hideous roarings of
executioners, that he sketched these pages.
He is ignorant of the epoch when he may
be permitted to publish them, terror dill
chills our fouls, and the name only of this
liberty of the press, which a lying philoso
pher so long complained againd, only to ap
propriate it to himfelf, frightens anew those
whom it is very necessary to enlighten. The
time when this book wis written, is a fuf
ficieat proof of its authenticity."
, " If the author of this work has escaped
so many dangers, if he has outlived so many
victims, the price of so miraculous a preserva
tion, shall not be a cowardly abandonment
of principles, the return of which in France
can alone indemnify her for her innumerable
losses. He proteds theD, thit in devoting
himfelf to write the hidory of the crimes of
Orleans and his accomplices, he had no other
view, no other ambition,than to convince men
of every age and of every country, that we
ought (as isjudly said by a great politician)
to regard as infamous and detestable those who
diflroy religion, who overturn kingdoms and
republics, who male war again/l virtue againfh
letters, and againjl all those ufeful ads, which
reflet} honor on the human race. These are the
true enemies of mankind ; these are the innova -
tsrs againjl whom, all polijhed societies Jhould
league, and leep themselves incejfantly on their
guard. Without this frmnefs, without this vigi
lance, there is no tranquility for Epipires, there
is na-fecurity for private property
REMARKS.
rinofe Lift lines in italic;, ho'.v true ! how ad
inirabSe ! l ew justly applicable to our Wmcsn
innovator*, " e\clufive patriots" aad Jacobins !
Yes. my countrymen, we fhouM take an instruc
tive lesion from unhappy Princ:, where an hand
ful Ot u.tcofnmpnty violent friends to liberty—a fell'
toohes i*ifleet's cUaibing, have ilelujred one of the
i.nefl countries in Europe wjtfc MooJ, rapine, and
ci-fil d fcord, and appropriating to thtmfelves the
property of those they murdered, have left the
great body of the poor, igncrant people of France,
not even the means of gaining a fubfiltence by la
bf-i—nor the confutations which dafpair and mile
ry draw from tho hopes of hippinefs hereafter—
the inPitotions cf industry and religion having been
burled with almost yvery oth:r vei'tige of civiliza
tion, in the tomb dug for them by the apostles of
anarchy and infidelity. Whoever
reads onr Jacobin prints, will find them difcover
injt the g'eitell uncafm- f«, a- pe.irin.g to he under
llrorg f:; rr, least the truths should be told, which
havc'akea place in France du"irg the revolution.
I'll t. nvy phi'.anll/rapifis, appear they trust,
will, and ought ! Ves.thofj horrid ti'urhsare daily
kr.o*n—they will f.rv ■ as a btacon to the
"pivfsnt mid fulr.re generations to avoio thatghaftly
fiend revolution, under the Specious lorni of innn
vati'cn, whi h, when- the niif.ry produced by it in
Frame, becomes wellJinown, nations will ihuu as
afcil ene.xy to human happi"rfs, .Cre net the di
aHoli .il views of Cur ali?rchiftVglaririg. in vvilh
iiig ta prevent the publicity of the horrors, which
have been committed in France by t'.tir tiutlieifir
it )ctty —tluir " rxetirfivtpKlriiti™—their Jacor-ins ?
Yr\i viu'iueus patriotic Au eric-ti".?
be i- nera't rf their wicked icbcn.ci in wishing to
cloatt.e (hrir Furd-hke idol .Anarch), inthe-1 vc y
,a|!)laei tc gfrb ef benevolence, in order to invite
all the r.aticns nl the earii- to fthbiace her : ! : ut 1
hep.e tl::.t Fiance will cct timie to tell us, 1 s the
i!oes every day by new pul-fcc-.tions, that the em
braces of suaithy an Death—that her tench «
VforiJef. j w ;g, (g give my fellow citizens a pro
+ kl'horrf-'iiL' of tvrjtah) menhir." a'taclifd so uh -
""a-jTurv innovations in iHe efla'nliflicd 'jrdir of
things; fenfiblc that we have much more to fear
from anarchy than defpotif'm, I (hall uniformly op
jwle that {■ ,<■ whose. infuliou* approaches arul d«-
ceifffcl appearance maltc him more fa:;;l!y <lang;er
°u«. Our Jacobin papers lijsiw; me for puhliffiing
Ix t tv.6l s from French publications on the Uevolu ■
lution, hut, " mindl»f« of their grin, I will IV. er
on, convinced, that all-ru'inp; delliny will either
chsnye rajre to awe, or bhift their powers to
'he deeped root."—The friflids and abettors of
fr<(Jucr.t revolutions may ranfuck French writrrs
(of whom 1 am strongly inclined to think there are
none «r we ihou'd cert iuly have heard of tham)
in favor of the revolution and the monOers by
whom it Ras l ecn' conduced : for my part,- as in
general 1 am an enemy to revolutions, cfpeci il'y in
this country, 1 (hall continue to drrfs out CITI
ZEN ANARCHY, TWIN BROTHER. OF CI
TIZEV Rr-VOLU na:J, IN every bloody,
frightful and Diversified garb ap-
FOtnFD ME BY lig.MODF.RN WARD
ro:;e of ctaKce, hopes of defe^r
-INU MV PKUtOWiCII-nZENS FROVI THE
FR or -RATHER INFORMAL
tiUG OF FHI-; FOE TO HUMAN-NATURE I
Late Foreign Intelligence.
VIENNA, July 26.
On the 24-th instant, about nine in the
morning, the marquis de Gallo arrived here,
and immediately after repaired to Engendorf
where he had a long conference with the
emperor. On his return to this city, he
went to the minyter of ftato, baron Thugut,
with whom he had another long conference.
It was remarkedthat neither the marquisnor
the perfone. about the Court had very plea
sant countenanced. The negociations for
pesce in Italy meet with great difficulties in
their further progress. \
The Freneh requite that Mantua (hall be
united with the Cifilpine republic, though
it was iftipulated in the preliminaries, that
the city (hould be restored to Austria. On
the part of the French, it is said, on the
other hand, that the emperor having given
his confent'to the establishment of a new Re
publia in Italy, its very existence depended
on having Mantua for a frontier fortref*;
the Emper&r, therefore, mult tacitly accede
to the crffion of Mantua, for which he re
ceives a fufficicnt indemnification inlftria and
Dalmatia,
As thele and many other difficulties have
arisen and the House of Austria cannot be
expt&ed eaiily to abandon its great interests
in we are not without our fears that
hostilities may again recommence.
His Imperial majesty intends going about
the end of the mouth to Stein, where he
will review the army of the Hungarian le-
V- -
As there is no danger of hostilities on the
Bohemian frontiers, the emperor has or
dered that the fourteen battalions of rcferve
in that kingdom (hall march immediately for
the army in Italy.
General Mack, who has been sent with
strong reinforcements to the Italian Army,
is already arrived at Gortz,
On the 15th inft. thefirft Dalmatian (hip,,
of 8 gups, failed from Zara, under the
Austrian flag.
MILAN, Jvly 18.
Since the Cisalpine republic has been pro
claimed, the Government at Florence has
taken every precaution against the partizans
of revolutionary principles. The Grand
Duke has raised a body of i2,0r0 men, who
will be sent to the frontfers of the neighbour
hood democratized Provinces; and if is said
that theTufcan towns on the fide ofMode
na and Bologna will be more strongly for
tified.
At Genoa the Doge has renouneed his
former title, and is now only called citizen
president of the Provisional Government.—
The public is no longer styled the republic
of Genoa, but the Ligitrian Republic; Lig
uria being the ancient name of the country.
The archbishop likewise has already intro
duced the appellation of Ugurian'republic
into the liturgy.
July 22.»
Buonaparte is still here, and it is fuppo
f«d will not go to Udine, as we had a report
*hat the peace was finally concluded there
on the 14th by general Clarke: but the truth
of this is greatly doubted. (And with rea
son, as the Vienna gazette of the 26th of
July makes no mention afit—Note of Ham
burgh Editor.) v
The province of Romagna was on the
12th united to the Cisalpine republic, on
the motion of citizen Belmonti of Rimigi.
Another conspiracy lias been discovered
at Roine, which was to have been carried
into execution in the night between the Bth
apd the 9th instant. Two of the conspira
tors were promised indemnity on condition
of making discoveries. Many persons have
in consequence been arretted.
The discontents of Naples incresf-. It is
said that the French envoy, Canclaux, will
soon leave that city. His firft Secretary of
Legation, Trouve, is not cordially received
at Court. He is known to have been form
erly editor of the Moniteur.
ITAL T, July 22.
The King of Naples hat ejhiblijhed maga
zines cn the frontiers of the Papal territory
for an army of 50,000 men.
The brother of General Buonaparte is soon
expecicd as French Envoy at Rome. The health
of the pope mends daily.
It is believed that a part of the French Ital
ian army will soon march for France. General
Majfena, it is said, will in a short time go to
Paris. A great part of the troops at Milan
have left that city. The frontier towns of
Piedmont, Tortona, Cuneo and Alexandria,
have been placed by the French on a war ejlab
lilhment.—Mantua and Palma Nuava, which
lie on the other fide of the Cisalpine republic, I
have lihevafe been more fortified. At
Brescia, all the artillery has been carried away j
but the Auflrians have not yet entered the town. \
The bank of Venice now pay again as before.
FRANKFORT, July 29.
It is reported here, that the tneps of the
French Savin end Mtufe army on the oiktr
Ifide of the Rhine, have received orders, in con
i fqcinte of thip efent circnmHances of France,
j to break up in five days, and form a camp be
! hind the Mettfe : according to others, they will
immediately march for the interior of France t
! d pr.rty of the army of the Rhine Vjill tale thi,
pnfition of these troops.
SJVITZERL -ND, July 29.
' The passage of the French troops through
the Vllais has been unanimously refufed to gen
eral Buonaparte hy the Swiss, 'on the ground
that it might five the oceafion tofimilar demands
in future which mujl be detrimental to the con
federacy. Zurich has addressed a juflifi:at«, y
, memorial to the dirctlory on this fiibjeQ.
PAR,*S, August: 12.
Some of our prophets have been mistaken.
The Fete of the icth of August was very !
gay and splendid, and the greatest order
prevailed throughout. The races were ad
mirably managed, and the concourse of peo- i
pie drawn together at the Champ de Mars
was immense.
We have already announced the arrival of
citizen Vifcounti of Milan, as miqfiler ple
nipotentiary from the Cisalpine republic to
that of trance.' In confequente, citizen ■
Sopranzi, who, on the entry of the French !
army into Italy, was sent by the people of :
Lombardy to treat with the Dire&ory rela
tive to their being formed into a republic, is
preparing to quit France. He has been j
named in his own country, member of the I
council of elders.
An address of the invalids to the army of \
Italy appears in the Journal dis Hommes j
Libres. It begins thus :
" We too comrades, have been struck 1
with the truth of the piclure which you have
1 drawn of the present situation of the repub
i ' !C * - . /
" What! (have we cried) so many great
and generous facrifices ! What ! five years
of the most glorious viftories, of the molt j
rapid success, and the most honourable tri- j
umphs, have still left them some hopes of!
giving us a master. Friends !it is but I
too true, and we shudder at it : the govern- '
meht has been vilified. Even within the |
walls of the legislative bedy, the emigrant, '
unpunished rekindles the of civil war, '
and supported by the impostor and rebel- [
lious priest, (hakes around him the torch of
fanaticifm. The defenders of the country,
the old patriots, and founders of the repub- !
lie, are driven from their homes, proscribed,
degraded and maflacred. The generous
friend of his country, who took up arms
for the defence of property, now infirm rind
mutilated, pines in the most frightful indi
gence without the means of existence, with
out pay, and crushed by the insolent luxury
of the unpunished stock-jobber. The pur
chaser of national lands is looked upon as ari
usurper, the sacred principles of liberty and
equality-called robbery ; the philosopher,
and whoever is not a catholic, marked out 1
as impious and an atheist ; the name of citi
zen even become an affront ; in short, from
the North to the South of France every
thing presents a distressing fpe&acle of a de
solated Country."
It concludes thus—" Our brave brethren
of the north, Italy, the Rhine, Sambre and
Meufe, rely upon us. Comrades ! we have
still strength and blood enough, and more
courage than is necessary, to humble thde
cowardly supporters of tyranny. Should
they dare to take up arms in order to exe
cute their plans Norfhall it be
said that 600,c00 soldiers, the conquerors
of all Europe, joined to their friends and
relations, and forming the purest mass of
the French people, have expressed an ineff
e&ual vow to live free or to die."
(Signed by more than 3000 invalids.)
The following letter has been sent to the
editor of the Sentinelle, from Leborgne,
deputy for St. Domingo to the legisla
tive body.
" Bayonne, Aug. 5.
" To escape from the Englifli, and get
out of the prison, are two pleaftires I have
iften experienced ; but now I feel them in
a more lively manner, as I am drawing near
my family nnrd friends. In short, four of
us have arrived this day from St. Domingo,
being the deputies of that colony to the le
gislative body. Vergniaud, coufin-german,'
to the great and good Vergniaud, is of the
number. His zeal and moderation tvill re
mind you of the virtues of his illustrious re
lation. We have left St. Domingo in a
happy situation, and nevertheless capable of
improvement. I can give you no details on
that fubpsft, but must defer them to my ar
rival at Paris.—The courier is setting out."
THE FRENCH REPUBLIC.
EX CUTIVF. DIRECTORY.
Celebration of the Tenth of August.
The following is the speech of Carrot,
President of the Directory :
" Frenchmen,
"On this day, five years ago, the thun
der fell upon the throne. Its splendor was
extinguished, its foundations /battered tmd
annihilated. But a fingL' lustrum has elaps
ed fmce this great epoch ; yet, such has
been'the rapid succession of events, that al
ready we are feparfttcd from it by ages.
M During this short interval, what mem
orable events have crowded after each other !
what triumphs ! what tragic scenes ! what
combinations of sublimity, and of wenknefs !
how many prejudices overthrown ! what
great talents have, been cut off ! what efforts
combined to destroy infant liberty ! how
many billows broken against the national
will ! how many base arts employed to ex
tinguish the republic ! how many vipers
cru flied in her giant arms !
"Woe be to those who fhoul3 conceive
the idea of re-establishing the thrrtne ! What
absurdity to believe tbat those who crushed
it to afhtps, will labour for its re-eftablifii
ment—that the founders of the republic,
forgetting their glory, and plunging them-,
(elves into the mire, will become the vile in
struments of a liberticidal faction, which
will eonfign them to the collefled rage of
i those vvb.o w;lh. to Jear them ju pieces!
" Where if the man among you, Hi -ten#,
Wiio, it not actively co-operated iti ijie over
throw of monarchy, has not decidedly pro
claimed within his own circle the imprescrip
tible rights of the people ? Where is the
man who can submit-to bargain with kings •
who, having vanquished them in the merid
ian of their power, will humble . llimfelf be
fore them when they arj conquered ?
" No > Frenchmen ! you will not forget
what it has colt you to be free—you will
not rifle the fame catastrophes, or confcquen
ces still more dreadful, again s tohe-fla.ves.
" Ah ! should the abvfs irito which the
madmen who consider the return of royalty
as an bbje6t offport, endeavour to plunge
you. Have they reflefted tipon the punish
ment which is prepared a* their reward ?
Do they know how much blood would b?
required to quench the thirst of the barbar
ous matters whom they recal—what harraff
ing forfeitures would be necessary to fatisfy
their avarice—what degree of oppr fßon
would be Sufficient to render them secure
from the dread of a uew effort of the peo
ple—what cares would appear to them-ade
quatc to extinguifn the last sparks of that
philosophy to which they ascribe the firft
impulse of the French to liberty ?
" They would persuade you, that it is ea
sy to substitute the hereditary government
to the conltitutional system ; and they never
speak either of the deadly war which the
just refiftanceof the desperate republicans
would produce in/a thousand quarters, or of
the difficulty of re-cftabhihiftg that inequali
ty of conditions and those feudal inftitutrons
which constitute the bails of monarchy, or
the difficulty of wresting the national prop
erty from the hands of thole who have ac
quired it under the fan&ion of the laws, or
of the fangiiinary conteil which would arise
between the competitors. Who. does not
fee that a whole age would hardly finifh
the single dispute between the Dynaftien
contending for the crown ? Who. does not
fee that a king could be delivered from his
disquietudes when he hid /hed the last drop
of the blood of Frenchmen ? Should you
have filled any employment in the repubKc,
you would be proscribed. Had you flown
to th< 'rentiers to defend it, you would bf
piof-ji V. Did y OU pofTefs any talent,you
wouf ibe proscribed. Should you have pur
chafcd a national estate, you would be pro*
Ccribed—you and your children. iYeg!
you would allperiih, except thole immersed
in absolute ignorance, who would be referr
ed.to cultivate the foil of their lord, under
the iron rod.'
" To obtain your pardon from the new
tyrant, in vain would you produce the proof
of some base service* secretly performed in
favour of the monarchy, and of your tresrh
ery towards the republic : you would die
with greater ignominy. Yourfperfonal ene
mies would soon difcovf crimes to lay to
your charge—others would be eager to de
nounce you in order to save themselves
Such, at every time, and in every country
has been the cruel policy of exiled kings,
who, by means of baseness and hypocrisy,
havefucceeded, themselves or their descend->
ants, in recovering the throne. Can you
hope that you would experience them less
revengeful or more humane ?
" Yes! we swear liy the sacred deposit
which the constitution has for a limited time
entrulted to our care, every attempt to
overthrow the republic shall be in vain ;«nd
those who endeavour to accompli(h' this
purpdfe of iniquity, shall meet that death
which they prepared for the republicansi
The chief magistrates of the republic may
differ in opinion as to some of the means
by whicji its liability is to be promoted*
but they will ever be found united in its
defence.
" They will do more, and will exert
themselves daily to love it better. They
know that war is the weapon of despots ;
that ljve and confidence alone are the in
fhuments of. popular governments.
" Agitation will cease, when men cease
to disquiet themselves by the apprehenfioitg
of royalty—others by the menaces and
threats of anarchy. Peace will be realized
when the enemies of the republic shall be
convinced, that they will find no point of
support among us—when each of us shall
be thoroughly fatisfied that the happiness
of the people consists in the extinction of
all parties—that they are desirous to eflab
lifh tranquillity—that they are tired of be
ing the dupes of the pafiions, and the vain
promises of the faftion;, by whom they
have been alternately misled. The people
compare their situation to what it was twen
ty months ago ; they feel h,ow much it is
improved ; they feel that it will be still far
ther meliorated, when the ideas, which
have been almofl entirely absorbed, which,
to fay no worse, are unreasonable, are at
length exclusively applied to the means of
internal prosperity and political economy.
From this they conclude that the constitu
tion, Wiiich difpenfcs such benefits, is good,
and become wife by their own fuflcrin<rv
they respect the government which they
have chosen : they defpifc, "they hate those
who would lead them to tear their vitals
with their own hands.
" Cease then, Frenchmen, to pursue
Chimeras. Let this day, the
«.)f that day on which the republic was
founded, diflipate vain alarms ! Feel, a«
yon behold its splendor, that you ara under
the fame banners—that you defend a com
mon enufe—tliat none of vou have auv
mercy to expert from those whole tyranny
you have overthrown. Do not resign youi
felves to difeprd, when you only to
enjoy the fruits of your labours and the
greatness of your defliny.'?
This speech was heard with the molt pro
found attention, and followed with utmcr
fal shouts of Vive la Repa'ulique.
causa r, of pive hvxdred.
23 Thermidor, Aug. 10.
At two o'clock the president adurefied
the council as follows:
" The cannon of the tenth of Anguty
will t;found through futare ;tg;s. It crush1 A to sftics an undent throne, and tiii'fec- '
Lie contlitution 011 vvlvfeh it was bn" It
opened new destinies to France : *it ,wns the
prelude to that long train of memorable
events, which seemed to have compre(fed
whole ages within the circle of n few years. !
" Overlooking the history of the p;i(li
ons, the prejudices, and the intriguec which '
are no more, ft b an objeft worthy of your
attention, upon the amiivfcrfary of this ce
Jcbrated epoch, to cultivate relk&ions with-,
out bitterness, to derive from it ufe
ful to' every Frenchman. Escaped, as it
were, by a miracle, from the revolutionary
aTitatfon, it, is time when those who hear
me ought for ever to renounce prejudices,
to extinguish amniofities, to facrifice, with
out regret, upon the altar of their co'intry,
the oppositions of their minds, and the re
'ferttmcnttf of their hearts. You who, up
on thctoth of August, wilhed for the
eftablilhment of a republic, your desires
ought to be fatisfied. The republic ex ids'
here, surrounded with the laurels of vi£lo-
Vy, and purified from the horrors of anar
«')y-
----" Friends of justice and of'order, you
who deipand a vigorous and prote&ing gov
er.iment# yanr vvifhes (liall be accompli(hed.
This governmerrt exirts ; it will every day be
more truly consolidated, adorned with the
payed colours of liberty. Impruderit men,
who dared in the frantie hopes of ideal im
provements, to aim a sacrilegious blow at
the only fafeguard of the public tranquility,
the anniversary of the Tenth of August is
more eloquent than I can be. It is that
day which calls aloud to you. Dread a fe
eovid of September,' a thirty firft of May,
and the execrable reign of another
pierre. It is to this point that the factions
tend ; it is at this price, that, under dif
ferent names, and under opposite balfcrs,
the triumphant party would give us a iVew
revolution. Ah ! never, never— it never
had any other source than the imaginati
ons and the writings of our
the infernal project which could not be con
ceived, which could not be promoted, which
could not be executed within these walls. !
hut by the utmoll frenzy of guilt. In order !
to calm chimerical alarms with regard to the
purity of yourconduft and tif your intenti-J
ons, it will be fufficient, I imagine, to dif- |
play your attitude and your system, in op- '
position to the united attack of the ibufe
andjhe intrigues of whic!) you are the ob
jefts. Continue, Representatives of the
People, to cover yourselves with the triple
fliield of justice, of moderation, and of firm
nefs. Guilt is awake ; it exerts every ef
fort ; it thirds for battle and for bloodshed.
" Hidory will fay, The National Repre
frotatives did not seek a fratricidal victory.
After the long tempests it had encountered,
it sighed for internal peace ; its efforts were
fuccefsful. Perfidiouflymifreprefenting your
opinions and your designs, guilt endeavours
to miflcad the defenders of their country,
and to turn the arms of liberty againd Liber
ty herfelf. History will fay, the true sen
timents of the army were known to the na
tional reprefenUtion : French republicans
could not forget their duty as foldicrs, and
their intered as citizens 5 they were enlight
ened by wife laws, and the hopes of guilt
were confounded.
" The external enemies of France smile
at the fpeftacle of our divisions, and pc;r
ha«". with dexterity add fuel to the flames
of discord.
" Let it be our dudy that hidory may re
cord of us what (he recorded of ancient
Rome : let foreign governments learn and
know, that the divisions among us cease
when the honour and the rights of our.coun
try are concerned. It is thus, representa
tives of tht people, that you will give an an
swer to the calumnies of malevolence ; that
you will secure the intemaltranqilility which ,
the wishes and the wants of the people e- <
qually demand ; that yon will at lad attain
that general peace to which you are aecu- j
fed of being hodile, when it has never cea-j
fed to be the nbjedt of your vows and the
end of your eSeitions. These ideas led me,
in concluding, to the fubjeft of this address.
Upon the tenth of Augud, 1792, a throne,
which had subsided fourteen centuries fell
to the ground. Happy France, in the an
niversary of thi* memorable epoch displayed
fmcere conciliation for the intered of our
country, and (hewed to Europe the differ
ent authorities of the republic governing in
concert by judice and by confidence !"
The printing of this speech was called for
frotf every part, and was decreed to the
number of fix copies for each member.
LONDON, Augud 16.
Government received yederday a dispatch
from Paris, announcing the fatt we laid be
fore our readers, of a treaty of peace having
been concluded between the French repub
lic the court of Lisbon ; and early this
morning, Mr. Brooks, the messenger, arrived
with dispatches from lord Malmtfbury, rc
fpedting the fame event, and the effeft it has
had on the date of the negociations at Liflev
No communication is allowed between the
vessel that brought over Mr. Brooks and tlie
people on (hore.
It is impofiible to convey any adequate
idea of the'effrct produced upon the public
mind by. the intelligence of this treaty hav
ing been concluded without the interference
of our cabinet, and in opposition to its views
tion truly humiliating. The funds, of course,
experienced a considerable fall : the three
per cents left off yederday at 50-$, and
opened this morning at and £. _
ft is vain to fppk of the ingratitude of
this lad of our allies, as we have spoken of
the ingratitude of all who have previously
Ueferted us. Self-prefervation is the fird
law of nations as well as of individuals, and
this aft of the court of Portugal is a proof
that England is 110 longer capable of giving
prote&ion to her friends. It is a bitter cup
—but we mud drink it. We h -ve courted
the rod, and we mud submit to the chadife
ment. .
The extrafts winch v.e-haw given trym
' tlv? French papers, arc of Confidecablc im.- I
P'.irtance. They open a feene of contention,
the result of which it is impossible to antic-i- j
pate. The diredtory has at length giyen its j
anfvrer to the mefTage of the councils ; in |
! which, though it explains with candour the
i fjfpicions circumdances of the event of the
1 march of the troops, it addreiTes the affem
| l>!y in language so figtiificaiit and unequivo
cal on their late proceedings, that it>(lead of
t!it compromise which was expected from
| the prudence, if not from the p itriotifm of
the two lides, it is a provocation to hostility .
on at issue between them. The
debate in the council of live hundred (hews
the imprefilon the answer made on the legis
lature.
What the result of this conflict will be,
we again fay it is not easy to conje&ure.
The direftory, invedetf with all the execu
tive power of the immense territory of the
republic—with all her armies cordially at
tached to its sway,—with all the attra£tive
charms of an incessant career of aggrandize- 1
ment, in which a single week is never fuffer
ed to pass without adding some new king- '
dom to the empire, either by conqued or
treaty, or breaking off from the league of '
their enemies some important power—with 1
th« recommendation csf having procured
abundance, and restored luxury to Paris—
with all the force of the country obedient ' '
t6 its command, rnd the multitude indiffer- '
ent to its nfts—and opposed to a legislature
broken into factions in which the very vir- 1
tiles of the good have been furprifcd into an '
alliance with the paflions of the wicked, cer- '
tainly (lands fair for triumph in the contest ; 1
but on the other fide it is to be considered 1
that opinion, transitory in all climates, is pe
culiarly so in France ; and how long the
people and armies (hall continue firm agairid '
thf battery of the press, the {kill, intrigue, j
and force of which were never exerted with
more variety, nor more cunning of attack in '
any age than now in the republic, it is im
possible to fay. At no period of the revo
lution ha 3 the cri.fi* been more interesting, '
nor presented more curiofit) to the accurate
obferver. It (hall be our talk to watch the
progress with the mod vigilant care, and to
(late the occurrences with the mod rigid im- .
partiality.
The (locks yeflerday felt ti depreflion of '
1$ per cent. The quantity of exchequer
bills thrown into the market by the Gold- '
fmids, Antrobus, &c. '.ogcther with the
very unfavorable appearance of the negoci
ation, are said to have bfeen the causes of this i
fall.
Should Lord Malraefbury return unfuc
cefsful from his present million, parliament
will be convened almpjl immediately, for the
purpose of voting twenty-five'millions
ling more, for the continuance of the war. 1
This accounts for the new power of con-
Tening parliament at so short a notice. For- 1
merly the public money was modedly drawn 1
for by ministers at a few days grace ; now
it is done more fweepingly by .bills at fight.
The Hamburgh mail due on Wednefiiay last. ar
rjvrd this morning By the extrafls we have giv
en from the foreign journals brought by this con ;
veyance, it will be seen that the fubjeSs of his Si
cilian ir.ajefty begin to manTeft some revolutionary
fymtoms. 'Ticking has given orders for «ftaMifh
inga very ronfMeraMe military force on the fron
tiers of the Pope's territory.
The French it appears, i» determin
ed not to give up Mantua to the emperor. To
this determination hit Imperial majesty is not in
clined to yield. Thus a definitive treaty of pence
. between these two, powers is but likely soon to
fake place. / <
Buonaparte's brother goes to Rome, as envoy
from the French repuMic.
The bank of Venice has jot the da it of that of
England, and now piys its notes in eafh
The Faris journals which we received yellerday
by whi 111 our cintfmpnrarics were wholly
unable to convey any intelligence of ronfequcce k
to rheir readers, were certainly th" most important |
papers that have lately been received from France. |
It is not poflible to express the effect t'-at the news
of a peace between the republic aji J Portugal had !
on the public mind. The inability and miferjble j
politics of our pilminiflration, and the very criti
cal Ctuition in which all the continental powers, is
now, we believe, become evident to some of thole
men who have hitherto thought proper to support
the prelent ministers.
Mr. Krookes, the rrcTenger, arrived this morn
r.g at the secretary of date's office, with difprlch
es from Lord Malm.'fbury at I.isle.
We have no reason to believe that there is any
profpeS of a Ipeedy peace. On tlie contrary, we
Ihould not be surprized at hiring of a renewal of 1
hoitiljtie«.
The I)u'ch, it seems, inlift on a restitution of
their colonies ; and the French government is de
tcrmine4 to support their republican ally.
What the terms of the peace between France
and Portugal are, we do not yet know Our rea
ders will fee, by the official nefTa re ot theDireilo
ry, given in yeftcrday's paper, that the conditions
are not yet announcrd. V\ c cannot however hope
that they ar'c favorah|e to cur intcMds We kn»w
that some time ago the confWences were bioken
off, becanfe the renditions demanded by the French
were inordinate, the PortugU'femimller,howe
ver, rftcr eonfulting his court, returned to Pr.iis ;
and though the present circumdances of thing!
may have made the dire&ory abate from some ot
of their pretentions, we fear that the furrendei ot
the Bazils or of Cayenne, may be fuhflantiv* arti
cles of the treaty, or perhaps they may have direc
ted a more immediate blow against the commerce
and revenue cf England, and (hut the ports of Por
tugal itfelf against our trade.
Aftrr taking the kingdom of Portugal und a r our
special prrt'<stion—after fending thither an army,
and ene of our mod: justly celebrated generals,
while its coast win guarded by cur most favorite
admiral—after refufmg paflport* for a commission
to treat o r a separate peace, and making it a fine
qua non of negotiation that we (hould ftipu a'e for
the feeble and opprrffed as it was the falh
ion to call our ally—het faithful m.ijefty sent a nun
ifter to Paris there to humble herfe'l before the
triumphant directory, and ac:ept of the conditions
that they might be graciously pleased to yield her !
To what a point of humiliation has our cabinet
broughf u« ?
The Paris papers which arrived ytjlerday
certain the fs!! owing article :
"Frrflj letters from Cadiz and Madrid
confirm the intelligence of the JLngljh having
been forced to raise the hhchade of Cadiz ; that
they had cut 'their calks, and been obliged to. re
treat in great <hfordcr ; and that the Spantjh
fquadrcn, confjling of twenty fad of the line,
h.idgot out and put forth in pursuit of them. It
it added, that ccnjidcnce had revived at Cadiz ;
and it was hoped, that before 15 days Ihould
expire, fad lie credit would revive, and commerce
begin again with aflivify."
i»y this day's Ma':].
NEW-YORK, Odober 3 .
[Translation.]
the: armed force of France.
" The armed force of the republic is in
flituted to defend tjic a gain ft enemies
from without, and to in fare within the main
tenance of order, and the execution of the
laws ; i3 entirely fubmifTive and obedient,
has 110 will of it 3 own, and cannot deliberate.
The armed force is diftinguifbed into p na
tional fedeptary guard (or a guard confined
to certain limits) and into a national guard
in a&ivity.j
The National Sedentary Guard—is com
posed of all the citizens and fpnsof citizens
in a bear arnls t Its
arfd discipline' is the fame throughout the
republic, and are determined by law. The I .
diftiniflion of grades and subordination,
take place only relatively to the service, <
and during its existence.
The National Guard, in Adtivify—is
compofcd of the naval and land forces,
maintained at the espjnfe of the republic,
even in time of peace, and is formed by j ,
voluntary enrollments, or in anyj other man- !
ner .the law shall deterrinine : they have a: ]
particular organization end discipline.
No pare of the national sedentary guard, .
nor of the national guard in a£tivity, can i (
aft in the service of the interior c f the re- , '
public, but on the requisition in writing of
the civil authority, according to the forms
prcfcribed by 1 tw. N
The executive dirc£tory cannot order or
fuffer to pass or remain, any body of troops I ,
within the diftancc of 12-meafured leagues j ■
from the commune, where the lejjjflature j
holds its sessions, urilefs by the formal re- ,
quilition or permission of tha legiftative
body.
It appears by the news published, that
the negotiations at Lisle had been suspended ,
for twelve days, but resumed with vigor,
and peace expected to refuk.
Though it is a well afeertained fa£t, that ,
this city is at present more hdalthy than it
has been known tp be for ten years back—
a faft afeertained by information from the
best sources—yet it appears that tongue
; of rumour andmifreprefentatiouhas been bu- J
fy, in propagating a tale that the Yellow
Fever exists among us; That we have teror
ifts—perfons of weak nerves—of easy credu
lity—who believe every filly report and ex
aggerate in relating it—is true —and from
such thoughtless alarmists we must exped
stories of this fort—but any person who will
be at the trouble of enquiring, will be unde
ceived on this interesting fubjeft—and cou
vinced of the falfity of all the filly rnmours of
the day.—Our intercourse with infefted pla
ces by water is well regulated—and if in
stances of perfon6, arriving from such places
and taken sick here do occur—they are ex
tremely rare, and infedtion is never commu
nicated—a decided proof that New-York is
radically healthy; and from the extreme vi
gilance exhibited by those more immediately
concerned in our protection, we eherifh a
hope, that we shall continue to be exempted
the calamity which *»ow prevails in several
sea ports.
A schooner was seized at Boston on Wed
nesday last by a Cuftom-Hotife officers, for
a breach \>f the laws of the Revenue. She
had on board 50 casks Sugar, entered in her
Manifcft as Rice—(he is from N. Carolina.
ALBANY, September 29.
On Tuesday last, his Excellency Gov.
Jay, and family arrived in this city—His
Excellency has taken his residence at the
house of Mr. J. Caldwell, situate in Statc
ftreet.
The Commissioners appointed to hold a
Treaty with the Indian Tribes of the 6 Na
tions, as mentioned in a late paper, to wit,
Gen. Shepard, ofMuflachufcts, Col. Wadf
worth, of Connecticut, and Mr. Bayard, of
New-York,having ipet the Indians in coun
cil, at the Big-Tree, on the Genefee-river,
aiid effected the objedt of their comiriffion,
which we -learn was the extingnifhment of
the Indian title to a large traft of country
' within theMaffachnfetts preemption—retur
ned through this city, the present week,
on the way to their refpediive homes.
Particulars we liave not obtained. It is
said, the consideration for which the Indians
liava relinquished their title tothe above tradt
is 1 go, 000 dollars; and that it is stipulated
this money (hall be placed under the direc
tion of the President to the United States,
and the interest annually paid to the said
Tribes.
Report fays, the Fever is making its ap
pearance at New York; and that Dr. Rush
has fell a vidtim to it at Philadelphia-—We
mod sincerely hope the report is without
foundation.
BOSTON, September 29.
FEDERAL REPRESENTATIVES.
The whole nnmbet of votesin New-Hamp
(hire for a Member of Congress, vice Mr.
Smith, resigned, were 6322.
Peleg Sprague, Efq, had 2 739*
Woodbury Languon, Esq. 1423.
Edward S. Livermore, Esq. 1349-
3161, being neceflary to make a choice,
it will be observed there has been none. Mr.
Sprague wanted but 422 votes of obtaining
his election ; and it is probable, afiifted by
the votes of the friends of Mr Livermore,
he will ultimately be the feprefentative.
BALTIMORE, Odober 1.
BO .iRD of HF.4I.TH
Burials. —Inthcweftpartofßui'imore,
herotiofore called the town, for the last 48
hours, ending this morning at sunrise.
4 Adults 2 Children
In the east part, called FeH's-Point, &c. in
cluding the Potter's Field.
2 Adults I Chili
(Signed)
Joseph Tq\vnsend, Clerk.
%\)t 6a3ctte»
PHILADELPHIA,
WFDNESDAY EVFNING, October 4
Total of burials for 24 hours t ending ysfler
day at noon. !
Chriil Church o I
Src ml Prsfbyt*rian 1 o
Third Prefbytcrinli I o ' \
Fr. Mary's Church 1 o
Friends I o
Swedes 1 I
Potfer's Pi !d I 2
City Hospital* 9 o
Kc.'ifington 2 3
f
Jt 1 7 7
w Five of these from the city I
number of* burials on the 3d of Oc
tober, 1793, W2S Seventy eight. ]
Died, this morning, Dr. Annan, prac- '
| tifing physician. 1
To the Frcfrien, Electors of the city of
Philadelphia.
Gentlemen,
Though fully sensible of the honor con- j
ferred on me by twice chufing me a mehnber
of the common.council, yet as, if re-eiedted,
my profemonal engagements would not per
mit a proper attention to the -duties of that
station, I request that I may not be voted
for at the ensuing eledtion. I am, with
great refpedt, your fellow-citizen,
WALTER FRANKLIN.
Odtober 2, 1797.
A fire broke out last night in one of the 1
rooms of a house in Court, Wal
nut street. The general alacrity in hasten
ing to the fire, prevented it, after cofffidera- j
ble exertions, from spreading further than
the room where it originated.
To alleviate the anxiety of those absent
citizens, who may be apprehensive from the
deserted state of the city, that there fnigbt j
be a want of assistance in cafe of fire, we take y
pleafureiu mentioning that an ample num- ]
ber of citizens attended on this occafioti, and
that there was no want of buckets.
Cj- The lufinefs of the C USTOM-HO USE, '
•will from this day be transacted at Cbbst,ek
for fame time.
Sept. 30.
PRICES OF STOCKS,
Philadelphia, Bth Sept. 1797-
6 per Cer\t. 16/8
j per C«nt. 10/4
Deferred 6 per Cent. 1.1/4
BANK Ulfited States, 18 per ct. advance.
—— Pennsylvania, SI de.
North America, 46 do.
lufurance Co. N. A. shares 45 to 50 do.
Pennfylvania, par
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
On London, at 30 days pir .
4t 60 days 65
—. at 90 days 11
Amsterdam, per guilder 40
J
From the (N. T.) Argus.
Yesterday the Chevalier d'Yrujo returned
to this city from his tour to the eastern Hates.
We are happy to learn that the Chevalier
was received with the utmost refpedt, and
treated with the utmost politeness and hos
pitality by all ranks of people, at Boston, at
Portsmouth, and at every town he visited.
[Thus far the ArgusJ '
1 REMARKS.
What monster to the honor afld interests
of his country wrote the above ? Had the
tale of the cordial reception by the people
of Boston and Portsmouth been true, would
it not haVe been better to conceal than to
proclaim their anti-patriotic infamy? To
give a cordial reception to a man who has
insulted (>ur government, freely eftablithed ,
by ourselves to support our honor and main
tain our interests !—To look with a friendly
eye on the man who, in my opinion, wiflies
to separate the people from their govern
ment—witha view (in conjunction with our
now mutual beloved allies) of swallowing up
both government and people !—To receive
with open arms the representative ol a na- .
tion, who, only three years ago, when it
did not insult, plunder nor threaten us with
nevaftation, our " exclusive patriots," thro'
their patriotic organs, Bache, Greenleaf
and Co. (hewed a furious, tiger-like wish to
destroy with the out-stretched arm of demo
cratic vengeance ! O Greenleaf! how
much longer will you continue to brave pub
lic indignation by daily insulting the most
lacred patriotic feelings of your felloe
creatures? I will not fay, fellow-citizens—
you have no country except France—you
have atrociously calumniated the charadters
of our patriotic eastern brethren in faying
that the ambaflador of a nation who with
pleasure watches our natioual ruin, was well v
received, among them—That he was receiv
ed,. I will not deny—but by whom, I need
not inform those who have been wit- j
nefTes of the worthies who, with bended j
knee, welcomed the arrival of Genet, Mon- j
roe, See. and other " patriots." We all I
know, and in tim« of neceflity the foes of
United States will feel, that our enlightened, j
virtuous, and patriotic eastern brethren will j
form an impenetrable phalanx —an impsne- j
trable bulwark to the enemies of the honor
and independence of our country.
, awful crifts which awaits us, let all Jacobins, j
. Anarchills, Gallic Americans amor.g us \
; stand clear—Remember, you have juftified j
r the use of the guillotine towards the internal
, enemies of a foreign country—but I hope j
we-will be content to fend off the least in- j
corrigible of you to your foreign allies when
our country is invaded by them—the
Safety will tell us (ns circumfta'nces mIR
? f i ii'e) what to do with the more hardened
3 and furious. [iV. T. Gaz.
MEDICINE S
OF every kind. n«ftff..ry for the sick a'fo. Sa
£o, Parley, and OktmeU for diet drink, will he
delivered gratis, «!oriEp the preftnt contagion, to
I t.h-fe v.-ho are suable to pay for it, it Hovtik's
1 Laboratory, No. U4. Second Street.
: CiTY HOSPITAL REPORT,
'" m 3d to Odtober, in the morning
iAdmhtl'd, finiie lad report.,
NiidJiatl Toy, Green v.-o*jtl lane.
Jane Conley, Eighth, between Spruce and
South "street.
Andrew Burchal]* Carpenter street.
Difchar'ged lintd lift report s
Sufantjah Kirk, admitted iSth ult,
R.oilna Appledon, 20th
Molly Roberts, j jth
Silly Fiftier, 2lft
Robert M'Cauley, i^th
William Abbott, 18th
Died llnce last report:
when admitted longfick pre*
vioustoadnumorU
lft inlt. c days.
Sll tani)ah Rielly (child)
30th ult. 1 day.
Nealdillafpie, 27th 1 days.
Remaining last report
Admitted since'
» 5^
Difeharged C>
Died 2 9
Remains in HospitaL | Cojalefcent i 8j
Four* of 'tt'hom are dangerous.
In erred fincekft report.
From city arid fulfurbs <S
Hospital 5
Total g
Stephek Giiiarb.
(Signed) Caleb LoU'Nes.
John Connelly.
Published by order of the Board, . .
Wm. MONTGOMERY,
Chairman pro tern.
The Citizens of Philadelphia and
the Suburb^,
RESIDING in or near Germantowr,
are eanieilly requested to meet at the Ger
man School House, in the school house
lane, on Saturday next, at three o'clock n
the afternoon, to take into crfidenuio.i the
prefeftt fuffering state of the PooVof the
City and Suburbs, arid adopt such meafuies
as humanity may point out.
Germanto-wn, OS. 3.
Boston Glass Manufactory.
THE citizens of the United States are hereby
informed,, that the manufa&ure of Window
G ass is now commenced at the Giafs House in Bos
ton.
It is needless to fay rjiy thing of the excellent
quality of the Boston Glass, as it is so w 11 known
throughout the United States to be in every r fpeit
greatly superior to any ever imported from Europe,
It will be cut to any size commonly used ; and
may be constantly had by applying to Charles F.
Kupfer, at the Glass House.
' Orders from the distant Statej to be addreffedto
Mr, Samuel Gore, Court-street, Boston.
' Boston, Sept 30, 1797 - O 4—zaw6w
Mejfrs. Tiitotby and Ma/on, Charlejlon ; Alejfrs.
Hodge and Boylarf, JJalifax, N. C Mejfrs. IVillett
and o'&nner, NorfiH j Mr. Ellis Price, Alexandria ;
'hjfrs. Yunit and Bro-wn, Baltimore ; Jldr. Hopkins,
New-Tori ; and Mejfrs. Hud/on \S? Goodwin, Hart
ford ; are requeued to insert the above. 7'be accounts to
be forivarded to the Editor.
MEDICINE S. ~
THE Poor who may find it inconvenient, from
diflance:, to make uf«"of Mr. Hontei's truly me
ritorious offer, will he supplied with medicines—
fago, barley, oatmeal, &e. by applying at ths
fubferiber's store, No. 36, Market-,lreet.
ROBERT S. STAFFORD.
The Health-Office
13 removed to the Cjty-Hall, and iskeptopefl
/ligHt and day, where persons having bufin''fs in a/
apply. W'M. ALLF. N, Health-Officer.
Sept. 4. , d'f
N U 1' I C L
THE Offices of the Depsrtment of War arc so*
th£ prtfent removed near to the Falls of the Scuy l
kill, 011 the Ridge Road.
September 4. dtf
■ THE MAYOR'S OFFICE ~
15 KEPT, FOR THS PSRSEHt, AT THE
qry hall.
Sept. 8.
Public Notice iThereby given, ~
THAT the Commiflioners for the Oiilriil
Southwarfc have rcmwtd their hall to the houfa
fjrm rjy occupied by Samuel Goif.'in Christian at
the corner of Fit'th street. o<ft. z.
PkALE's lVi USEUM.
Thirs valuable repository of the works of Na
ture, so well calculated to delight the mind
and enlarge the understanding, is opened daily, as
usual. It Hands in »n airy and healthy situation,
an 1 free from tke epidemic that at present affliils
tUe city ; it may, therefore, be frequented with
the greatest fafety.
As an Amufem?nt\ the study of Nature ia the
moll rational and pleating : as a Science, the mod
sublime and inflruilive. It elevates the mind and
expands the heart. They
" lVb'jm Nature's u.rks can charm, -with God uimfelf
" Hold contierft" _
Many interring additions have lately been
made to .this Mufcum : a.id . the feathered tribe,
containing a variety of the mofi rare and beautiful
fubjeils, is now very alvantageoufly arranged.
Waxen Figures, of Men Urge as life (some of them
calls from nature.) are here dressed ir. their prpper
habits, and pl.-.*;d : .n attitudes charatfteriitie cf their
refpefliv« nations. Here may be feea the North-
Amer:;ftn Savage,and the Savage of South-Ameri
t ca—a laboring Chinese, and the Chincfe Gentle
man—the sooty African, and the Kamtfthad^le—
v<rith some Natives of the South Sea Islands. Thp
immense variety and intereftihg diversity which
this Museum offers to the view, may be seen but
cannot be d' k.ibed with full effecl.
K'f Priceflnly I-4thof a dollar. (
Seyt. S'B. law
At a Meeting of the Board of
Property, June 6, 1797,
| Present John Hall, Sec'ry.
Francis Johnfton, R. G. >■ oflandoffice
Dan. Brosdhead, ,S. G, )
i Nicholas BettirYgtr,
j Versus >
1 Samuel Cunningham.)
Tn this cafe the proof of service of notice be-,
ing isordered that notice be grv.
en in one of the PhiUdelphia and York newfpa-
pert vveekly, for ac leall eigfit weeks to the
heirs or aflfsenees of Samuel Cunningham de
ceased, to amend (he hoard 011 the firft Monday
in November next, to shew caule why a patent
ffiotiW not ifliie to Nicholas Hettinger for th*
find in qneflion. N
c (A true Copy.)
JOHN HALL,
s . Score ary of titc Land Office-
Aug. rj. *l4»£vt.Imported in the ship Man Chester,
Bknjamin Shewell, Mailer,
From Boi..nJeaux, and for sale 'oy the l'ubfcriber,
Ko. n Walnut St r-et.
Bonrdeaiix Brandy ~j
Irish ma'rkct.claiet in cases ( Entitled to
Medoc wi;ie, in do. f Drawback.
6aut«rne, do-. do. J
- Thomas Murgatreyd.
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter cnfks
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
4000 bushels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stf.
To be fold at Public Vendue,
Tothe liigheft bidder, at the hemic of Mr.
William tvans, the tign of the Indian
Queen, in the city of Baltimore, 011 the 15 th
(lay of* iflober next, at 11 o'clock, A. M
About ftven thousand acres.of land,
the property of William Bell, of I'hilatWlphw,
lying between Reifter's-town and
commonly called Little Winchcfter, (the turn
pike road rims through a eonfitfarable part of
these lands) the craft begina'about 1% miles
from Baltimore, within a f«w hundred yards
of said Rfi!ter'?-town, and extendi to the dif
tatice of about twenty-three milts from Balti
more, and 11 to on the main fa!i»» of f»;apfico
river, frpm three to four miles thereon. Will 1
T>e fold in tra<3s of iHie hundred and fifty to
three hundred acre. There is a large propor
tion of meadow w6od land on each trail,
fftitle-riF thiDih highly improved, with excellent
Wildings and fine gr.fs.
, ALSO
A tra& of seven huiidred acres of
land, called Clover Farms, wirhilt live milts of
BaiUmfhurg, elleemed very gocd for Grass.
Richard Ponfonby. of BladenfbUtgh, will ffiew )
this l»nd to any person inclined to purchase.
also, '
A trad of land ef about three hun
dred and thirty awes, within about two milos
and a half of thq President's house in the Fede
ral City. It i«niirly all wood land, and a fine
high profpefl, from which may be fcen the
city of Washington, Bladentburgh, Alejtarttlria
and a part of Geofge-town, and many miles
down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard Por.fon
by, of BladenlWg, will also (hew this land.
A liberal credit w ill he given for the grcateft
part of the purchase money. Ihe terms will
be made jpiown on the day ef sale.
May 8 ' . w.^m
Just Received,
From Batavia(vUProvidence)
a few Boxes of Spices, consisting of ,
Nutmegs, Cloves and Mace
For sale by
IVILLINGS& FRANCIS,
Penn street.
nay 30 dtf ,
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 319, High-Street.
G £ O K G E DAVIS,
BEING busied for some time pest
t.ons for removing into his profent house, has
been undei thenecellityof poftponinguntil this day
informing thegentlemen of the Bar generally thro'
the Uaittd States, that his spring importation of
law bouka is now arranged and ready for iale, 011
terms that he trutts wiil entitle him to the like pre
freeuce he has experienced for Several years pad.
Catalogues, combining the mod varied collee
tion ever imported ir<to this country, are printed
and will be delivered on application.
June 17. tad 6w
City CommiJJioners' Office,
* June 42, 1797.
IN pursuance of an ordinance from the feleifl
and common councils, parted the aid day of
May last, appointing the city ctmimiffior.eri,
and prescribing their duties, fe&iongth,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
That the city is divided into five diilrifls,
each to be under the fuperintendance of one of
the city cominiffioners, » hois to be individually
relponfible for the clcanlinefs of the fame, and
are as follow- • f
Driflrift No. I. From the south fide of Ce
dar-street, to the north fide (if Spruce-flreet, un
derdid fuperititciidence of Nathan Boys.
2. From the north fide of Spruce-ftVeef, to
the north fide of W«lnut-ftreet, under the super
intendence cf Hugh Roberts.
3. From the nprth fide of Walnut to the south
fide of High-ftrcct, under the fuperintemlence of
Joseph Claypoole.
4. From the north fide of High-street, to the
north ficb' of Mulberry street, under the fuper
iptsndencecf William Moulder.
5. From the north fideof Mulherry-ftrefct to
the north fide of Vine-llreet, tinder the super
intendence of Nicholas Hicks.
The cleaningof High-flreet to he in common.
• £5" A ftatesj meeting of the city commilTion
«rs is held >( the Old Court House, in High
flreet, every Tucfday evening at s o'clock
Tulv T4. eotm
■ m
Stands for Dray men,
In purfuanct of an Ordinance from theSelefl and
Common Cour.cih, bearing (late the ltd day of
yfpril, 1797. providing for the appointment of
City CommiJJioners, (Sc. Seel, the 15th.
r nHE following places are fixed upon, by the
JL fair! City Commrffioners for Stands for
Draymen and their Horfet.
In Vine-street, eastward of Front-street, on
both fides.
Saflafras, High,Chefnut and Walnut fttreets,
eastward of Froht-ftreet, on the no.-th fide only.
Mulberry-flrcet, fauth fide from Front to
Third-llreet.
, Front-ftreat, east fide froin Vine-street to
Elriith's alley.
Front-street, from opposite to Black Horse al
ley to Hamilton's stores, east fide.
Watcr-ftreet, weft fide from the north end of
Stamper's or Moon-'s ftorcs to Pi*-, ,'lreet.
Penn-ftreet from Pine to Ce Jar-street, weft
fide.
Drawbridge, north fide, east of Front-street.
Spruce, Fine and &>uth streets, east of Frost
street, south hde.
Dock'-ftreet, between Walnut-ftrect and the
Bag stone crossings, east fide-, opposite George
Orklev's.
Second-street, between SatTafras and Vine
#ic ts, 4 weft fide.
Fifth-flreet, east fide from Chefnut to Mul
berry flree's.
SafTafrr. -street, from Third to Fourth-street,
ilft fide-
No drav or horse to stand within ten feet of
FOR HACKNEr COACHES.
Pine-ltreet, north fide from Fourth to Fifth
streets.
Fifth-ftr«ct, between, Chefnut and Walnut
flreets, weft. _
Branch-street, north fide, between Third and
Fourth ltreet^»
July 14. . mw&rnn
A Literary Treat.
publl/hed, handfomcly printed on writing
paper y price I dollar,
A irew edition oi' that popular and entertaining
work, entitled
T"HE FORTSTEAS, an' American Tale ; /being
a to the hiO.ory of jblin Cull, the Clo
t-hier—ln aftriesof letters to a friend, with the ad
dition of fuo letters, aljuding to rcccni%,Htical
traufacflions in America.
extrv'l from t!ie Clavis
fliews the principal charavflers that are introduced:
John Bui!, the Kingdom of
Hii Mother, theChurchof England
liisWii'e, the
Peg, the Church'cf Scotland
His Brother Patrick, lrelun'd \
Lewis,the Kingdom ot France
H.i» Mid'eib, the Old Constitution
Lord Strut, the of Spain
Kichobs Frog, the Dutch RepuMic
The Franks, the French Republic
The Foresters, the United States of America
Robert Lumber, New-Hampshire
John Codline, Maflachufetts *
4 Humphrey Plowfliare, Conne«sttcut
Roger Carrier, Rhode Island .j^
Peter Bull "Frog", New-York
Julius Cseiar, New-Jersey
William Broadbrim, Pennsylvania
CaQimar, Delaware
Walter Pipewood, Virginia
His Gratidfon, George Washington
Peter Pi;ch, Karth Carolina >
Charles ladigo, Carolina
Geot'ge Trusty, Georgia
EtKun Greenwood, Vermont
Huivtcr Longknifc, Kentucky
Black Cattle, Negro Slave*
Rats, Speculators
Mother Carey's Chickens, Jacobins
This popular an? entertaining fatirieal histo
ry of is attributed to the Rev. Dr. 811-
kmap. It has a great lhare of. originality and a
i bounds with genuine humour. It is continued
down to the present time, and chira<sterifi6 those
lav political tranfa&ions, which have caused so
much uoeafinefqfin Amorica.
Sold .by H. and P. RICE., Bookseller, No. 16,
South Second Street, and No. jo, Marke' ftjeet.
Junea6. §
LAW BOOKS,
Latcft London and Dublin Editions.
H. & P. RICE, Bookfdlers,
No. li, South Second, and No. 50, Market street,
HAVE just received by the lrte arrivals from
London and Dublin, their spring importa
tion, confiftingef a variety of the lat«ft and mo ft
approved I.aw Books, which, added to those alrea
dy 011 hand, forms the most extensive colle«Slion et
er offeredfor falein this country. They thei«fors
beg leave to notitx, that from the nature of their
conne&ionsin Dublin, they are enabled to fe'llrlfh
editions (as they have hitherto at the very
jowell prices. The following are among the latelt
publications.
V'- y, jun'ra Reports ih Chancery, 1
Pcake's Cases at Nisi Prius ; Ridgeway's Reports
in the time of Lord Hardwick* ; Floyer's Probers
Pfadice in the Ecclcfiaftical Courts ; Barton's
Trcatifc on a Suit in Equity ; Tidd's Pradtice of
the e&urt of King's Bench Aflious, %
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations; Cruise
on Uses ; modern Reports,. II vols. London'edi
tion. f
H. and P. Ric* expeft ta receive by the firft ar
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
Durnford and East's Reports, the id part of Gil
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, anda number of
new publications.
June lb.
The History of Pennsylvania,
By ROBERT PROUD,
IS now in the press, and will be published,
wkh all convenient expedition, by ZtCHA
riah Poulson, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue
to be received, ami at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed proposals, until the
work is ready for the fubferibert.
July 18. ' - lawtf
Printed Calicoes.
JOHNMILLER, Jun. & Co.
No. 8 Chefnut-Street,
Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS Beatly allotted, very low on
short credit.
March 6. §
Richard and James Potter
HAVE removed their Counting House to No.
45, South Fifth-ftrtet.
r.uguft 1. w&f6t
Lancaster, Harrijburgb Carlisle,
Shippenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
THE public are requcfted to take notice, that
the partnerfliip which has for fomctima sub
sisted betweM Mathias Slotigh of Lancaster, and
William Geer, is now dissolved : bat, not as M.
Slough infiddatesto the public without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fuh
)e& from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 29th
December last. a recital of which is not now deem
ed neceflary. Any gentleman who wilhes to be
more circumstantially informed of the merits of
tl i» business, by applying to W. Geer may have
the perusal «f M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfectly jnftifiabie in attaching him
felf to any other person in the, prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
public were pleased to confer on the firft effort in
this business, vrilliam Geer, in .conjunction with
Melfrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
to prosecute and carry it op, with every care, at
tention and dispatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic Can polfibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance tw
render the pafftge fafe and commodious, inform
thofa won wilb to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they cat] take their feats at
George Weed's, the sign of the White Hc.rfc,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifourg,
Carlidf and Shippenfburg. The fare as hitherto
efta'bliihcd.
For the further accommodation oi tF.e puhljc,
a Stage will ft.irt every from the houfc
of Samuel F.Wer, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
and return (rom thence aiul arrive at Hairiiburg
every Sarurday, so that paflengera deftiucil for
Lancaster or Philadelphia, may procend o« MOll
- WILLIA-M GEER.
Lancaster, Jan. 27,'1797*
N. B. This »f Stages ftarta from tihs
house of William Ferric, in Lancatter, on every
Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
ceeding to ihe westward; and from the hou-fe of
Mr. Samuel Eldrr in Harnffcurg every Wedfief
day morning, on ihe fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns
from thence on every Thursday : performing the
fame routine daily as,in its tour ircm Philadel
phia. _ mwf
To BE SOLD, ;
And pajfejjion given immediately,
A I.ARGIi two story brick Houfe,hanufomely
fituatcd in Princeton. There are four rooms
and a la v.; entry on each floor, and five rooms in
' the gatm, a range of back builditigs 51 feet in
length, and a piazza of 57 f-=t. There is a pump
in the yjrd, an excellent kitchen garden, at the
farther end of which are a carrjage house and two
ftaMes„ one of which is new, '44 feet long, with
flalls'in the two (tables for horses. The heal
thiriefs and plcafantnefs ot its situation, and tho
numher of genteel and agreeable families in and
near the town, render it a desirable rcrrecat for a
gentleman from the city. The commodioufntfs of
the house, its cential position, ahd the largensfs of
the laMes,niake itlevcry way suitable for a tavern, for
which ir has always been confiderd as a capital
fta.id. Inquire on Hi - premifea. cf ,
ISAAC SNOWDEN.
* Ang. a<ji-dtwia.wtf
N..0 r I C E;
TF Tarpv whofome years fmcekept
School at.tlieNine fridges, HQue n's County, Eas
tern Shore, Maryland, be living, he is hereby re
minded to call on, or write to, the Rev. Anibrofe
near Warwick, Cecil County, Eastern
Shore, Maryland, from whom he will receive in
tereffing information.
Augujl 4. mw&f4w
City of VVa^iington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A mgniScent lwelling-houfe ao,ooodollars,
& caih 30,000, are 50,00 a
1 ditto 15,000 & call aj.ooe 40,0p«i
1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,300 30,000
1 ditto xo,ooo ft ca'fti 1?,000 ao,ooo
1 ditto 5,000 Ac calli 50000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & saih 5,000 10,600
1 cast prize of to,ooo
i do. s,oooeach,ire • 10,000
10 dc. 1,000 - - 10,00 c
as do. 500 - - 10,000
00 30. too - - 10,000
aoo d». <jo - - 10,000
do. ' 15 - - 10,000
1,000 do. 10 - .ao,ooo
15,00® do- J ' 10 - >59,000
16,739 Prizes.
3J,16: nianki'.!.
50,000 Ticketi, it Eight Dollars, 460,oo»
N. 3. Tofjvour those who may take? quan
tity of Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars wdl be
the L ■ • t drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the la«t
but 9Nf.
And approvednotes, securing payment in either
money or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received foi any number not lefsthan 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elsgant specimen of
the private buildings to be ertded in the City of
Wafhingtan—Two beautiful defigps are already
leleded for the entire Ironts on two of the public
fquarcs; from these drawing*it isprOpcfed toerefl
twq Centre and f ourcor«er buildings,as fooß as pos
sible after thitHottcry is fold, and to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner deferibed-in the scheme lor the Hotel
Lottery, A nett deduction of five per cent, will
be made to defray the necessary expenses of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a pajt of
the fund intended for the National Umverlity, to
be ereded within the city of Walhington.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the
Prizes, ire held by the President and two DireiSl
ori of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount of the lottery.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
# § # Tieketsmay be had at the Bank of Colam
bia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter
Gilman, Boston ; of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
•nd of Richard Wellsj Cooper's Ferry.
mwf
From the Otfego Herald. /
CAUtION.
WHEREAS 3 combination of men irf this
coonty have undertaken to enrich th«m
felvcs,by fabricating titles to fundr/ valuable tra£s
rff land, the property of gentlemen living in New
York, Philadelphia, London and Paris, for which
trads of knd large sums of money have been paid
to those fraudulent men, by innocent purihafers •
It is therefore just th it public information (hould
be given, to the end, that the injurei) may feck re
dress while the men have property, and are to be
found. Those who have been discovered are Tru
man Harrifon, Joseph Witcomb, said now to re.
fide in the county of Saratoga ; Thomas Kelly and
several other.' who go under fi&itious names. It is
supposed that the lauds offered fcr sale on those fa
bricated titles, are at lead worth fifty thousand
dollars. Such as we have aflual knowledge of are
as follows •• Lou No. II and 12, Otfcgo patent,
thousand acres each, the aclual property of William
Dellwyn, bow of London ; lots No. 58 and 64.
fame patent, thousand acres each, the property of
Mr. Chaumont, now of Paris, and aines Avenll
and others, ot this State. There is some grounds
to suppose that the lands of Richard Well* and
Charles Wharton, of Philadelphia, are under their
management.^—The. Printers will do well to give
this a place in •iheir papers, as well totaution the
public against pnrchafing those in* is, as also to de
prive those men in future from hfipnftljg on indivP
duafa, which their education and addrcts have en
abled them to do Iwretofore. Witcomb has been
a (hopkeeper of foinenore in this country.
The following affidavits will fct in a clear point
of view the wickkdnel's of those men, which wh<n
the public have percfed, will induce them to ex
culc the interference of "Wm. COOPER.
Otfego, July 18th, 17 J7.
1 Thomas Kelly, of the County of Otfego, hav
ing been led into an error, by John Witccmb and
•Truman Hirrifon, of the farfie County, to sign a
deid to them, for iot No 58, Otfcgo patent, which
was the property of William f. Franklin now Mr.
Chamont's and others; ind further the said Joseph
and Truman did nerfuade me (»do this against my
inclination, which was made out tin the xoth day
of November, j1;93, or set back two yeirs fosas
to bring it to that time ; and further the name of
Pardon Starkstothat deed v/as a fictitious name,
there buing no such perlon there. To this t make
voluntary oath. THOMAS ItELLY.
19th July, 1797-
On the 19th July, 1797, came personally before
me, Thomas Kelly, the fnbfcnber to the above af
fidavit, and made folcmn oath that it contains noth
ing tut tii. truth.
ELlilU PHINNEY, Jufaccof the Peace.
On the iSthJuiy, 1797, came before me Jacob
ICibby, a person !>y me well known and worthy of
good credit, who oa his folcmn oath did fay, that
two of the pji tics ahovementioned did make ap
plioation to him this deponent, some time in the
winter of 1796, to make them a deed for two thou
fahd acres of land in the Otego patent, and pro
mised this deponent a snare of the profits, on the
sale of lands, fcr his so doing ; and that they
made application several tinleS'for the fame e,
which fervicss this deponent as often refufed, de-
them thu he had no right to lands, and
coulddo no such thing ; which daring attempt on
t!i:s daponent's integrity he had related anong his
friends several ti7r.es, previous to making this affi
davit, JACOB KIBEEY.
Sworn before me,
F.LIHU FHINNE'i, Jufticeofthe Peace.
I Aug. 3. • .UW4W.
Will be Landed,
Frcm on boj*d the fjiip A&ive, Capt. Elair ,froro
Hamburgh,
IS baiss white Riiliia clean Hemp
t casks Clover Seed
For Sale by '
Thomas Herman Lcicfftr p
North Fifth fwvet, No. 34.
Twne tG. ' f
W iUiam JMackb 11 rn,
LOTTERY AND BROKER'S OFFICF'
No. 64 south Second •• rect.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery. No. 11, wLicfc
commenced drawing the 29th 1 May, FOR
SALE. The prire of tickets will rife in propor
tion as the drnwinjr advances, particularly on ac
count of the five firft drawn tickets, prizes of
four thousand dollars each, on the laO; day ot
drawing.
Check Books kept for examination andxegifter
ing, in the Canal, No. 2, City of Wafliington, No.
2, and Paterfon Lotteries.
Also, tickets for sale in the Schuylkill "bridge and
Perk omen Bridge lotteries, which will begin
drawing in the course of the fummcr. 1
The Imfinefs of a Broker in aft kinds of Stock,
Bills, Notes, Lands, &c- &c. tranfa<sled with tHe
uf.noft a;tetition.
June 2 tu&f
Erfkinc's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMi'BELL & Co.
No 4a South Second street,
[Price 31 Cents]
A View of the Causes and Confequeft
ces of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskine.
May 15 §
STATE TRIALS.
Sold b W. Young, Bookseller, No. s*, South Se
- cond-flrcct,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
CtONtaining the impeachment, trial, and accpiit-
I as of Francis Hopkinfon, Judge of the Court of
Admiralty, and John Nicholfon, Comptroller Gen
eral—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, 3
dollars.
W. Young has for sale, a general aflortmentof
Books. Also, Stationary, retail and by the pack
cge, well allorteJ, and entitled to the drawback if
exported. July 7 —•
rHESUBSCRIBER having been appointed by
the Envoy Extraordinary and Miniiier Pleni
potentiary of his Britannic Majesty, General a gent
larsflUUng Briufh creditors, and such particular a
gents as they may specially authorize, in pro/etuting
their claims before the c«mniiflioners for carrying in
to effeft the Gxth article ot the Treaty of Amity, Com
merce and Navigation between his Britbnnich.ajeJiy ami
the United States of America, hereby gives notice that
he has opened his office at his house the south call
corner of Chefnut and fifth ftreett, Philadelphia,
where he is ready to receive all claims or inQru£lions
for claims with the voucheis aud documents thereof,
lor the purpose of bringing forwafd the fame agree
ably so the rules and orders which the board may
think proper to prescribe.
Ar>d as it will be for the interest of all concerned,
that the fever*! claims be lo dated, and fuppoit
<d, as to prevent the delay which would arise from
; the neceiTity of obtaining further information, or ad
ditional materials,from perio»a rcfiding at a dillance,
the general agent thinks it his duty to add, (lor the
direction chiefly of those, who, not having employ
ed particular agents, may leave the prosecution of
their claims to his charge and management) that all
such c)ain>s ought in particularto set forth—
ift. The pioper description and fuoation of the
creditor or claimant, end original debtor ( rffpeft
lvely.
ad. The date and nature of the original contrast or
debt.
3d. When, in what manner, and to what extent,
the creditor or claimant w«s prevented or impeded,
by the proviGon, operation or deleft of law, the
drcifion»and of courts, or restraint of exe
cution, from recovering payment ot the debt in
queftiorK
4th The loss and damage incurred or fuflained,
in coniequence of such impediments, whether the
lame may have arisen from the ijtfolvtoey* change of
(ituation, or death of the debtor, the loss of legal
remedy from lapie of time, or othei causes impairing
the value and fetunty of the debt, which would not
havefo operated if such impediments had notexiiied.
And 51b The paitieular grounds and reasons on
which the claimant maintains, in the terms of the
treaty,, that 44 by the ordinary course of judicial pro
ings, the creditor cannot now obtain and aftually
have and receive full and adequate cosnpenlation" lor
the lodes *hd damages so fullaiued.
The general agent thinks it his duty further to sug
gest that the several claims ought to be accompanied
and supported by the affidavits of the claimants duly
sworn and regularly attested, both as to the extftence
of the debts claimed, and such other circum fiances
as may be within their own knowledge respectively.
And wherever the claimants in dating the nature of
their evidence (which must in every instance be the
best of which the ca<e is capable) have occasion to
refer to the tefliraony of witrietTcs, it will be propci
to apprise the gene/al agent of the names and placed
of rciidence of such witnefTeiand the fa£l»to be elta
blilhcd by their icftimony.
Wm. Moore Smith.
PhiW-lohia, June Bih, 17Q7. d
For Sale,
That well knownplace, called VAt/Dsaaifr's
' F F R HY, v
ON Nelhaminy creek, 18 miles from Phi
ladelphia, on the New York port road,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
'premiCts are a large limy stone hnttfe occu
pied as a tvern, and a good one story stone kit
chen, a large frame liable with a gar.d threChing
floor, and I'omc out buildings—also a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
thie place is a most elegant fituaticn fora gentle
man's feat, commanding a view of the N'efham
iry to its jundlion wiih the Delaware, and t'neuce
across to the Jersey thore. It hasthe privilege
of one hilf the toll received from the bridge.
For to the SnWcribcr,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
Mav 2-4. 3tawtf.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBUTDGC with much pleaf
ureand refpeft, returns her fmcere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
(he has received during four years residence in
Philadelphia ; \nd allures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, she ha« made afuperio.-anangem«nt tor,
the more convenient accommodation of'her
fchoiars. —Every branch of ul'eful and polite
edncati.il is particularly attended to liy ( Mrs.
Groombridge and matins excelling in their
refpcilivc prtjfrffimii.
Corner of' Spruce a«d Eleventh Streets.
June ?rh, r797. fimfet
>The fituatiftii is healtlay ; and made
more agreeable by an exteafhre garden and lot
of ground adjoining the houle.
Jujl Published,
And to be had cf Me'ffirs. DoVfcn, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and tfio other pricipal Bcokfeilers in t*\e
city,price dollar, ivvintyrf ve cents,iti hoards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, m. o. -
June i&.
Ro/s tS 3 Siwjcn,
HAVE FOR SALE
C Ho^'fheads,
Excellent Coffee in < Tierces, and'
C Parrels.
A fmal! parcel of nice cocoa m hairs
fciv ) uiubeun', Jamaica spirits, fourth proof
Superior Te-.eriffee wine, old and in Madeira pipes .
An invoice of jewellery and hosiery to be fold by
th;' package
A fi*w4iamptrs of befk cheefe,
Tuly 27. ' " dt'f.
The Subscriber has for Sale,
A large aflortment India Muslins,
ccarfe and fine
India Caliches
Sooty Ronialls /
B uc .Cloths and Checlcs
BaneUnna Handkerchiefs-
Blucrcd and Gilli Handkerchiefs
An invoice of Irifli Linens and Sheetings, well
afTorted
A box ©f I'iapers
Silk Umbrellas .
Two boxes of fine Spicfet, cotaieing Nutme«§.
Mace and Cloves
Black Pepper of firft quality
East India Gingbr
Java Sugar
A quantify of Madeira Wine
Ditto of Gin
Roll Brimllone
Mordecai Lewis.
n. lawim '
Higgins' Specific
TOR TBI
PREVENTION AND CURE OF THE
YELLOW FEf'EJt.'
EVFR (ince this disease made such ravages in this
1 city and New-York, the author has turned his
attention to its causes and cure.—The relult of his
enquiries has convinced him that the rcafon why so
few persons recover from its attacks, are {rem it*
not being well understood, and the confcquent
wrong-method taken to cure it. He is persuaded
that the exceflivc bleedigr.s and mercurial reatment
of the Faculty is highly injurious, and that the on
ly rational mode of treatment is by theufe of proper
acids. Convinced of this he offers his Specific as a
rertain remedy, if used according to the directions.
To be had in l»ittlcs, at one dollar each, of the
inventor Geo. Biggint, Cherry street, two doors a
bove Ninth street, (late manager of Jackson and
Co's Medicine Warehouse, JLoflrion) ; by y. Le-
Hanc, No. 2'6 ; W. Griffith, No. 177,7". Pearce, No.
11, South Third street, T. Stiff, No. 55, New street,
near Vine street, andy. Gales, No. 36, Race street.
Aug. 15. » tutbs 3t
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, and
CONSUMPTIONS.
Just received, by Wm. Griffiths, No. 177, South
Sacond'llreet, a frefh fupplyof
Genuine Balsam nf Honey,
A Medicine invented by the late Sir John HiU
(who knowledge as aßotanift procuredJtin»
the appellation of the Linnaeus of Britain) and is
•onfidered in England as a certain curefor the above
complaints; it is also of Angular efficacy in the
Hooping Cough,
It may also be had retail of W. A. Stokes, Moi
61, South Second street, and T. Stiff, 55,New
ftrnet, in bottles at 75 cents each.
Wm. Grifeitjis having observed the happy ef
fect of the medicine, (several cases of cures hav
ing come within his own knowledge) and the great
demand for it has induced him to order a large
fupp'y, a part of which he has just received,
AuguJ! law.jW _
30 Dollars Reward.
RAN away on Satu»day last, two indented Ser
vants, Gifford Dally, a mulatto boy, 'ibouf 17
years of age, a ilim light "built aetive fellow, can
read and write,five feet seven or eight iivches high,
has a heavy countenance ; had on a fuftiaa coatee
and trowfers, a high crowned hat, fine (hoes &c.
Allan Hellons, a black man, about 14 years of
age, five foet seven or eight Inches high, a thicMPfet
Ijclu nfy built f*ll»w, particularly about the breechj
' had on a sailor's blue jackst lined with fwanlkifc,
dark firiped vest, fuftian trowfsrs, high crowned
hat, coarse shoes, &c.; each of the;|i had several
Ihirtaand several other (loathes with them. Thir
ty Dollars will be paid for the runaways, or r 5 dol
lars for each, and reafonahle charges, os delivering
#hcmat No. 54, North I'hird-ftrect.
The black fellow is abont a year from Lewis
Town, in the County of Suffcx, state of Dela
ware, and has taken the boy with him.
July 31. mtu&fiw
~Tol~e or RENTED, '
A LARGE 3 Story Brick House, on the
South fide of Filbert street, between
Eighth and Ninth, lately occupied as the Sur
veyor General's Office.
1 he Building is 36 feet front and 35 feet defp,
the lot 1 ic feet deep, with the privilege of S nine
feet wide Alley extending the whole length of
the lot, to a thirty feet wide Court for Carriages
to turn in. The House is not flattered, and
may be turned either into on£, oi* two dwelling
Hotifes. It is suitable for a Urge Manufactory,
or would make a good Tavern. Immediate
poflefiion * ill be given.
Apply to No. in, Chefnut-Streef.
Aug. 2t. cocbjt.
Musical lnjhwnent Mahufaflory,
No. 167, Jlrch-Slreet.
HARPER, harpsichord, grand, portable grafd*
fidvboard, pier table and fquarc piafco for e
nraktr from London, returns thanks to his friends
and the public, for the»r liberal encouragement,
and hepes that by his afllouity and atfcehtit n to ffv
ery branch of his business, te merit a continuance
of their favors. Piano fertes niade on th« newest
and most approved plans, wicj> pedals, pat6n?,
swell, and French harp flop, Which hefl-.tteia
himfelf will pe found on 1 rial by unprejudiced
judges, to be if not to any import
ed, an J twenty per ccrt cheaper. Any inilru
rrunt, purchased yf him, if not approved of io
twelve months, he will exchsnp-e.
N. B. All kiflds of Mwlic..! rnftrumenti rvsade,
uneeL and repa'rerl with the greatest accuracy,
d.'fpatch, and on the molt reaforaWe term-, U.r
ready Tnoney oniy.
Second Piano Forte* taken in
May ic . .
Forty Dollars Reward,
RAN away from the fuhlonii. ♦of fee
onddavof thtJ inil. Jiily, a Mulatto Man,
naijied Will liowztr, abo'it torty years<jf age,
five feet levtn or eight inches high, rather
chunky made ; had ..:i when he went away, a
draTi colored cloth coat, flriped purple trowfers
and jat jeet. It is probable he will change his
cloatlies, as he took a numh«r with him. The
said fellow formerly belojjgtd to Mi*. CJjarlei
Blake of this place; and it is expedled he hag
made towards Jones's l*n the Delaware
State. —Any perfi-n apprehending the (aid fel
low, atjd fecuriug him f(»that ] can get him a
gain, lhall .receive'the above reward if taken
nut of the county, and Twenty Dollars if in
the coun'y, asd all reafor.able charges if bro't
hoA)e*
JESSE REED,
Qusen Ana's County, M. ryland.
July 3. wit