'
#a?ettc of the Jsbt&too, & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1377.3 ' * MONDAY EVENING, FEJiRtJA RT 6, 1797. [VOLUME XI.
■ " ' 'I' * * 1 ■ ■ ■■" » 1 "jr...... . . .. . »
50 Dollsirs Reward.
LOST, last evening, .between eight and nine "'clock,
as the fuWjcriber was going to his hoafe at the Falls 01
Schuylkill, from the ho use of his father-in-law, Vtr
Fr-ne-.s Stewart, in Sugar-alley, between Sixth and Se
veEth-ftreers, al-«ve Market-street
t A black POCKET-BOOK,
Containing 119° Dollars, in Bank-Notes
From ' t« 100 Dollars each,
Or.e of which wu of the Branch-Bank of New-.\ «rk,
and fereral papers, Inch as receipt* and orders —I'he
rood the subscriber feak, was the Falls road, crossing at
'the Upper Ferry.
Who-ver finds the above Pocket-Book, and returns it
to the subscriber at the Falls, or t» his father-in-law,
nir Stewart, living ia Sugar Alley) shall be entitled to
>:»: above reward, paid by
JAMES HAFFY
Feb. 3. _______ -
Insurance Company of th« State of
Pcnnfylvania.
VTOTICE is hereby given, that the dfre&ors have de<
1\ elared a dividend of thirtt ooilars per (hart , en
he bufmefs of the last fix months: which will be paid to
he stockholders or their legal representatives, after the
10th inftast.
SAM. W. FISHPR, Sec'T.
Philadelphia, Feb. ad, X 797. duoth.
FOR SALE,
&&&£ 1 HE SHIP M AV.Y,
SAMUEL PARKER, Master,
hundred tons burthen. Apply to
jOSKPH ANTHONY, & Co.
It" -tLe MAUXLI 9 notiolijn ifew days, file will tak
freight for Hamburg. Apply as
Prober 31. d
For Sale, or Charter,
jg!3bl The Ship DIANA,
&M&U Sajhuei. Pile, Matter,'
'WiX&ftxl Riirthen 105 47*95 tens regilter, built in
Philadelphia in the year 179 a, of live oak
aiulredcedar, and was sheathed 13 months ago, fte
has just had a compleat out-fit, and nwy be fret to sea
«t a very trifling expence. I
For terms apply to
Philip Nicklin & Co.
Who have for sale on tsar J fsid vejftl,
%*] cfllks of fine yeHow paist.
9 boxes and 12 bundles of writing flites.
1 box ink ftaads and note preffst.
14 baits of fail canvaft.
And on hand,
Imperial "J
Hyfen, and, f TEAS.
Souchcng )
40,000 pieces Nankeen* of the firft quality.
19 tubs Quicksilver.
t chests Bandanno handkerthiefs.
A few chests Manchester goartsweil aflorted in Car
durovs, thicksets, Ginghams, Muflinet*, Dimities, &c.
3 Daxat-Wats iesl-ij, RU. ,'—.
180 crates Queens ware well afibrted.
jo tons flieet lead.
Nails assorted, flat and (harp points.
London Particular, } Madeira Wine in pipes
London Market, > and
New-York Market, J
49 pipes and 10 hoglheads TeneriSfe wine.
8 tierces Snake Root,
«s 3 o lags Mahogany.
Nov 7. tth&ftf
-fOR SAIE,
iffiljSgfr. The fchocncr Orion,
* I SHfi is between eighteen months and two
years old ; her frame is of the belt of W.
Oak; fie is a faithful-built veflcl—blridfomely finifhed i^ff
a,,d well found in every particular : u ready to receive a
cargo and ci» be put to Sea without any expence on. her Hull,
fails,'or rigfitog. She stows 600 barrels, has a h««dfome
cabin and fttt'age, and a half deck which will (low feventy
five or barrels. She is a fact tailing vessel—has bee*
ncwiv'can k«d, grared and painted, and put rn cnaroug'n good
repair in every refpeft ; her inventory may be feeu by apply
ing to the captaio k" board said foh«e«er, laying at Mr. John
Wilcocks's whirs, between Chefnat and Walnut Street, where
she at any time miy be thoroughly examined by those who
■wilh to purchase.
Thaterms of sale may be known by applving to Samuel
Smith, Ihip broker, Ne. 86, South Front Street.
Feb. 4. _._-L - dtf.
PRFNTERS
Who haveinferted Advertifenaents at the request of the
Editor of this Paper, are desired to forward their acconsrts
Jannary 30 §6t
Washington Canal Lottery,
1.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorifad
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
two hundred, and fifty dollar«, for the purpose of catting
a Canal through, the City of Washington, froxi th Po
Comae to theEaftern Branch Haruoar.
The following it the SCHEME of No. f.
Viz -I Prize of ao.ooo dollars, io,coo
1 ditto 10,000 lo.coo
' . 7 lad drawn")
Tickets, each J j> ogo Jiiooo
6-ditto 1,000 * 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,oo« ,
10 drtto 100 *,aoo
5J & Mo So ' *,7S°
ST so ditto II 69,008
To be raffed for the Canal, 16,15®
5850 Prizes, 175^300
11650 Blanks, not two tAa'prize.
Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
£5" The Cemmiflioners have taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid a& for the pun&ual payment of I
the prizes. r
Ihe drawing of tins Lottery will commence, without C
delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timt ',% 3
notice will be given. ' a
Such prizes tis are not demamJedin fix months after th '
drawing is finiihed, shall be considered as relinquifted for
■the benefit »f the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed J NOTLEY YOUNG, ° \
DANIEL CARROLL, a/D f
LEWIS DEBLOIS, .
GEORGE WALKER, r
W m. M. DUNCANSON, c
. THOMAS LAW, o
JAMES BARRY.
Cit of Wafhinjflon, Feb. 11. 5
/» order to comply tuili contra fit, I will fill, for
approved bonds-, on 3 equal annual payments,
A Square of LO v fS,
At tie upper end of Frederickfburg, beginning op
posite to the lawer comer of Daflor Wellfurd's, on
Caroline-street, and running up 10 the crsfs ftrert
leading to ferry, and from thence' Uack>o
Sophia-street. This fijuare I hav»"htiij~®iricK>-ij>
J7 an lialf feet front, and hack, 12 an Caro
line-street, and ta 011 Soi/hia-fireet. Nirte «f those
oh Caroline-street I have leafed an annual ground
' rent of 2 and 10 pounds, t» the amount of 74 pounds,
and the vacant lots a purchifer could enhance the va'ue
| of by building small hotifes, which will as readily
procure tenants as poy or goards will Martins in the
spring, and yiel-a a greater profit in proportion to
| their cost than large buildings. Thofr who incline
to purchase may kn»w/the terms by applying to
HENRY FITZHUGH. t
Beli-Air, Dee. 8, 1796. 7thJ d4w
• Red Clover Seed.
! Frelh red Clover Seed of the best quality, it bags of
5 hufhels each
Madeira wine in pipes, fit for immediate use
Teneriffe wine in pipus, hoglheads and quarter calks
; Ditto do. of firft quvriity, for the ufc of private
families
Coffee in hogflieads
Jamaica fpirit^
Conneflieut soap in small boxes
V\ indow glass and Spaniih fegars, and
Two tr inks of befl patent, plain and ribbed silk and
cotton holier*, for sale by
JOHN CRAIG.
Fehnin'-v r wff&mtf
Frejh Garden, L-ra/'s and Flower-seeds,
Rwti, &c.
TETdayTaßdaigTrbm theTvp i captain g<4itir|r, - .
from London,
And FOR S \LE by
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE,
Corner of Walnut and Sccond-ftreets,
A mofl capital and sxtenfive effort men t of
GARDEN, GRASS and FLOWER-SEEDS,
. ROOTS, &c. ate.
Among which are,
Five kinds .AfparagushThrer kiads Cresses
Four Berecole Twelre Onion
Beanr Thirteeo Radifli
Six Beetsi Fifteen Turnip
'Eleven Brocoli Fifteen Peas
Twenty-fix Cabbage Six Savoy
Sic Carr«t Four Parsnip
Three Cauliflower Melon
Five Celery, Twenty-one Lettiice
Ten Oucumberi
Commoft and lemon Thyme
Curled leaf and sprigged Parsley
Pot Marygold Pot Marjoru«i
Balm Thyme Mangel Wurtzel
Leek Kail Shallots
Rape Seei Rye Grass Saint Foin Lucern«
Red and white Clover Timothy, &c. &c.
With a curious collection of the mofl esteemed
FLOWER-SEEDS anrf ROOFS,
- □ the moil extensive ever imported into thw citv
-Ihe ■■ -11 - ■ 1 | i„ _
are warranted freft and good.
Printed catalogues may be had by applying as above.
Dec. I** §
T Women's Cloaks. r
GEORGE DOBSON,
No. 15, South Third-street,
Has just reeeived, per Eagle, Capt. Fofdick, Tial.op
- don, an assortment of
Scarlet
Drab / Cloaks trimmed witfe fur and
Purple and [ ermine.
Pearl J
> December r«:
F NOTICE "
1 LANDS of the United States, in the
1 North-Weftern'Territory, heretofore advertised
* in the several public pipers, will commence this even
ing, at the City Tavei* to be continued from day
' to day, 'till the tenth of February next if not sooner
' fold. \
i. 4 j
; Treasury Department,
September *8, 1796.
' M hereby given, that proposals will he ro. :
I<l ceived at the office of the Secretary of the Treasury
until the expiration of the firft day of March next en
- futng, for thefupply of all rations which maylw required
for the use of the United States, from the firft day of
; June, 1797, to the thirty-firll day of May, 1108, both
5 days incluflve, at the placcs and within the diftriils here
after mentioned, viz. At Ofwego; sit Niagara; at
Pjefque lfle; at Sandufty Lake, and on SaHduflcy 1
River; at Detroit ;-at Mjchilimackinac; at Fort-Frank
lin; at Pittsburgh; at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hamilton
at Fort St. Clair* at Fort-Jefferfon; at Grenville; at
, Pic<jue i'own and Loramies Store; at Fort Adams'; at
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance ; at any place bslow Fort
Defiance on the Mi*nn River to Lake Erie; at Fort 1
Citsuben ; at Fort Maflac ; at any place from Fort Maffac
to the south boundary of the United States on the river
Mifiifippi; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiatanon. x
If supplies shall be required lor any posts or places not t
mentiened in this notice, all such supplies fliall be fur
nifhed at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
posts before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed on *
between th« United States and the Contractor.
The rations to lie f«pp[ied are to consist of the fol
lowing articles, viz. '
One pound two ounces of bread or flour. a
One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounces »f a
pork or baeon. b
Half 1 gill of rum, brandy or whilkey.
One quart and half a pint of falt.~\ *
Two quarts of Vinegar, (
Two pounds of Soap, r P er hun <>red rations -
One pound of Csadles, J
The rations are to be furniihed in inch quantities, as that
there fliall at all times during the said term, be fufliaieiu »
for the ennfumptitw of the troops Jit Michilimackinac, Dt- ,
troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, for the term of fix month* in 1
advance, and at e?ch of the other posts, for the term of f
at leafl. three moßthsin advance, in good a»d wholesome C
proar:fions,ifthefamK fljall be required. It is to be un a f,
derllo id, that the Comrajler is to be at the expence and b
rifle ol iffuifgthe fuppliis to the troops at each post, and
that ali lofTt s f«ftained by the depredations of as enemy, or v
by means of the troo;A of the United States, shall be paid d
for as the pricc of the articl.-s captured or destroyed, on n
the depositions of two or more persons of creditable cha- 1
ra&ers, and the certificate of a commiflioncd officcr a r - r
certaining the of the loss, arid the amount
of the aiticles for whieh compensation shall be claimed
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Seeretary of the Treafurv.
* ■ - '
*■ . . PROPOSALS,
For carrying the Mails of the United
States,
n On the foi 'Xvmg Pujl Roads, -will if received until
■t d*J *f March next inclujive ■
0 I. Frovn Charlefluß, S. C. by Jackfonboro' and Coofa
s MsUcjj twic® a week Receive the vlail
at Charlafton cv£ry Tuelday and Friday hy 6, P. M. E
e deliver.* at Savannah the next Friday and Monday, by 8
d A. M. Returning, retire the Mail at Savannah er« y
}j Saturday, by $, K. M. and by 6, A. M. and
e deli\er it at Charleftoiy the next Tuesday and Friday
by noon.
e „ Pro f°f' l, f ,r ">'•* r.uU <witl he received by the p./t-rnzlier at
bavatwab. • . J
1. F rom Coofahatchy to Beaufort once a week—
Receive the mail at Ctwfahatchy every- Thitrfday by 6,
r. m. deliver it at Beaufort by noen on Friday, &*-
\' turnhg, reave Beaufort every Friday by 3, p. >i. and arrive
at Coofahatchy on Saturday by 8, a. m.
, Pr*p«fals for carrying the mad op this route Will be re
ceived rty the pott-rnafrer at Beaufort..
if i. The Post-master Genera' niayal'er the times
lor the r.rriv tl *r»d departure of the mails at any time da
ring the continuance of tfce. contracts, he previously ftipu
latin* an adequate compenration for any extra expence
that may be ocoafionedthefcby.
e Note 2. For every hours delay (unavoidable accidents
excepted) in arriving the times prescribed by con
trast, the comtra&or (hall forfeit one dollkT, and if the
delay continue until the departure of any depending mail
an additional forfeiture of five dollars shall be incurred.
Note Should any perlon makin proposals riefire an
alteration of the times of arrival and departure above fpe
oifit-d, he mufl state the alteration desired and the price
be Tvill carry the mail for with and without such alte
ration-
. contra^s are te be in operation on the
nrit cay of April next and to continue until'"the 30th of
September in the- year 1800.
JOSEPH HABER&HAM,
Ptfi Master General.
General Post Office, >
Philadelphia, Jan. 13,1797.3
W » 6 ' d6w.
M*s. G RA TTA N
' RefpeAfully. Informs her* friends, and the public in
general, that on Tuesday the icth day of January,
/he proposes opening, at No. 39, North Sixth
* street,
, A Linen and Muslin Warehouse.
) Book Maflins, from 6/3 to io/ii per yard
s Jaconet ditto, from g/g to g/8 per yard
f Striped ditto, from 7/10 to 10/10 per yard
- Fine Codies
1 1 ambour'd Book Muslins, from 13/9 to 21/ per yard
e India Muslin, from 11/3 to 15/ per yatd (
Sheeting Muslin
Jaconet muslin Handkerchiefs, from 4/3 to bf per hdkf.
Book muslin Handkerchiefs fiam 5/3 to iofb per hdkf.
Muflii: coior'd and border'd Handkerchief
Dacca Handkerchiefs
Tambsur'ri Cravats from 10/8 to 11/ll
Pocket Handkerchiefs
Cambric, from 11/3' to 16/3 per yard
Table Cloths
HucltahuckTowellfng ,
Vomz-St Cotton Hose, from 6*j te 13/ per pair
* Dimity from t/"ro to 6/S1
fA'ea'i Sip* Hose -
1 ambour'd moflirt Handkerchiefs from 11/ij 'to 13/1
lri(h linens for Gentletr en's Shirts, fr«m to 9/*/
And a variety of other articles.
N. B. Orders received for all Ttijids of ready made
Linen, Gentlemen's Shirts, ruffled or plain, Gravats,
Pcckc. Handkerchiefs, <ke. &c.
Houfliold Linen, ftc. See.
A plain fnirt, made and trmrk'd, 3 I-J dollars,
A full ruffled ditto, 4 dollars.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, $ dollars.
A full ruffled . itto 6 (jollars
A plain shirt, made and marked, 5 1-2 dollars.
A ft.ll ruffled ditto 7 dollars.
A plain {hirt, Kiade and marjt'd, 6 dollars.
A full ruffled ditto 7 j-2.
e A plain (hirt, madean4 mark'd, 6 }-i dollars.
1 A rery fine ruffled ditto 8 dollars.
Linen included.
r January 13.' { ,
Cheap French China.
THE fn-bferibers finding it impeflible to fiipply their
(lore with any morf China from France, the prices
being too immoderate in the manufa<flarie», givf no
tice that they will fell at priu»c cost tfee remaining
fleck on hnnd, coalifting as
Deflert Setts,
Tea-Table Setts
] Separate Cups aud Saucers'
p Grouped and Figures
, Alabaster Vales
Looking Olafles, m gilt frinnes,
Befidcj India Japan'd Toilet Desks, Chairs, Tables
nad QHadrill« Boxe<. PASQUIER & Co.
No. 91, South Second-street.
; December sth. tt
The Elephant,
Now exhibited, was boßght for Ten Thou/and
Dollars. 1
He is 3 years old, 6 feet high, growing to 18 fset.
He eats 150 weight a-day, and drinks a barrel of
water ; he has drank some days forty bottles of porter,
drawing thecerks with his trunk.
He is p»rfe<£tly inoSenfive; travels loose. ,it the
rate of five miles am hour, and is the greatest curiosity
ever Wrought to this Oenvyaeat.
He is to be seen 'till the ijth of Jan«ary, in
Market-street between Third and Fourth-flreets, at
a quarter of a dollar, that ever/ one may fee him—
after which time th« former priee of half a dollar will
b* refuraed.
He will leave Philadelphia as feon as the weather
will psrmit.
December 31 d
Brokers Olfice, and
COMMISSION STORE.
Na. 63 South Third ftr«et,oppofitethe national new Bank*
SAMUEL M FRAUNCKS and JOHN VAN REED*
have entered into co-partner(hip, under the firm of
FRaUNCES & VAN REED, in the business of
Conveyancers and Commission merchants. They buy and
fell on commission every species of flock, notes of hand,
bills of exchange, hotifes and lands, &c.
Monet procured en deposits, Ac. &c. all kinds c'
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatnefeand
dispatch; accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the
mod correit manner. Constant attendance will be given.
They solicit a (hare of the public favor ; they are deter
mined to endeavour to deserve it.
N. g. Th« Btmoft i'ecrecy ebferved.
SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES,
JOHN VAN R££D-
Philad. august 17, 1796. m&wtf
— — ■ ■ »
FOR SALE AT IVU,LTAM PRIESTMAN'S
i No. 15. south Fifth-ftreet,
Between Market and Ciiefrm* Streets,
A Quantity ©f plain Gold Watches ; Gold ejiginti'd &
' ornamented with pearls ; "Silver and metal ditto, by
the firft makfer* in London a»d Paris ; a TimoPiecs
by Arnold ; plain go}d by Mudge £3* Button; feveimi
[ diamond and diaißOftji pea-] locker-, ear-rings,
1 «scc ; it. qf iWorcS thr-r v y ; diwbU-harrcl'd gun*,
in caf«, by Man ton ; quantity of plated table, tea, and
ni ;ht plated eanH.leftick*, branches, «Scc 46 Volrtmes of
Law-Books, in ©*e lot, reports, f«lis>, scarce and
.valuable !>«otks; book* of Prints ; —amongst which are
Martyr, oh Statue da Rs/fi, C aimer's DiA ; on«airc x
dc Bibla, Johnson's Poets, 75 vols- Addifon,
4 vols. BiograpLia Britawnica, ©pere de Machiavelli,
Ruins of Baibec, Blair's Chronology, Pliuii Hiftqrica Na
turalis, Mofitfaucon's Antiquities, State Trialsj Evelyn's
Silva, Po/tlewayte's Rittrattii dvomini illuf
tri Ttfcaai, Oueyres de Bayle, Caracci.
January 31 $
A CARD.
If Manfteur G H. Si file,
Who left Bordeaux the loth June laftj andrarrived
at Boilrt* r.Uout the middle of Anguft, in the (chooser
Jane, is ia Philadelphia, he is requested to call en
Joleph Anthony & Co. No. 5, Chefnut-ftreet. wh»
will give him fom? information of importance*
> December 14, 1796. 4
1 iVew Theatre.
Br Particular Desire,
ON MONDAY EVENING, February 6,
Will be presented, the Historical Play of
Columbus;
Or, A \VO"LD DISCOVERED.
WITH NEW SCENERY. MACHINERY, DRESSES
AND DECORATIONS.
ThemuGc composed by Mr. Reinagle.
The proceflions and Pageant by Mr. Byrne,
In this Play, the manners and ca(lotas of Mexico and
Peru fharaiterize the firft discovered nations of America,
Such deviation from Historical truth was deemed necessary
for dr; matic effed, and has enabled the author to intro.
duce the pathetic Tale of GORA and ALONZO, from
Marmontel's Incts.
The PROLOGUE will be spoken by Mr.
SrANJSH JPARTY.
Columbia, . Mr. Cooper
Alonzo, Mr. Moreton
Harry Herbert, Mr. tVipigil
Dodler Dolores, Mr. Harovpod
Bribon, ' Mr. Francis
Roidan, Mr. Fox
t Valverd®', Mr. Darley
Mufcefo, Mr. B/ifell 1
Captain, Mr. McDonald
lit Spaniard, Mr. jun.
ad Spaniard, Mr. Morgan
INDIANS.
Orozimbo, Mr. Wtsrren
S'»lafco, Mr. L'Eflrange
Catalpo, Mr. H'arrell
Cuto, Mr. J WarrflL
Cora, Mrs. Merry
Nelti, Mm. Francis
PrWft*ffi*o£_tJxeSam f rs " f' E ? ra "X*
\Mrt. Mechthr, «cc,
Indian Wnmen.—Mrs Hjrvev, Mr, D»Qor, Miss Mil
bourne, MifsOldficld Miss L'Eftrange, Miss Bates, Mis»
Andetfon, and M' - lleSr>phie
Iri rtt 1.
A PROCESSION OF INDIANS and the firft
Landing of Cotßtoßus
In aft 3.
REPP\£SENTATI6N 6F A STORM AND EARTHQUAKE ;
With a Grand Ehupt ion lioib a Volcano.'
J ' In ;■& 4.
A MitCH of Sacrifice, and Procession to the Execution
of Cora.
The *hole toconclude with A GRAND PAGEANT.
The scene of the Volcano dffigned by j. RidinfdV
Esq. R. A. principal Scene Painter to Cerent-Garden
Tnentre.
The rift of the Sctnery designed by Mr. Milbonrne,
and the whole executed by him and under his direc
tion.
Machinist, Mr. LenthalL
Tke drries designed by Mr. Gibbon».
To which will be added,
A FARCE, called
Barpaby Brittle ;
Or, A WIFE AT HER WIT'S END.
(As often performed at CovcHt Garde*, with general
applaafe.J
Barnaby Brittle, Sates
CUdpo'le, Mr. Blif-it
Jeremy, Mr. Francis
Sir Peter Pride, Mr. Morgan
Lovemsre, Mr. Fox
Jeff"-y. . Mr. H'arrell, jun.
M;s. Brittle, Mrs. Francis
Lady Pride, Mrs. Metcbtler
Datoarii, Mrs. Hmr-vey
Bo*, One Dollar twenty-five cents. Pit Seven Eighth#
of a Dollar, and GkHery, half aTlollar.
0- Tickets te be had at H. & P. Rice's Book-fiore.
No. 50 High-Ibest, and *t the Offiae adjoining the
Theatre.
Ladies Gentlemen sre requested to fend their
servants to keep places a quart* before 5 «'cl»ck, and
to order them, as soon as the company are feared, to
withdraw, as tney cannot on any account be permit
ted to remain.
The Doors of the Theatre will open at 5, and tie
Curtain rife precisely at 6 •'cloek.
Places for the Boxes to t>t taken at the Office in the
front ef the theatre, from 10 till 2 o'clock, and from
10 till 4 on the days of performance.
riFAT RESPVBLICA !
Pennsylvania Population Company.
NOTICE is hereby g;iveH, to such Share-holders u
as hara not paid their alfelTments on theirlhares to
pay the fame immediately to the Secretary of the Compa
ny, at the Company's Office, No. <3 »crth Fcurth street,
Philadelphia. 1 hey are further informed, that in default
of paying the fame within thirty day"! from the 4th of Fe
bruary, iaftant, the several forfeitures will b« ftri&ly ex
aAed, in conformity to the aiit article of affociatian.
By order of the Board,
SOL. MARACHE, Secretary*
*• •— *10
( inis Day Publiftied,
4ND FOR SALE BT THE r.DITOR,
Pricc three eights o a Dcllar.
THE letter of the Sscrttary of State, to Mr. Pinclt
aey. Minister Plenipotentiary «f the Uaited States, t«
th, French RepublW. JsVmary 4. h'Philadelphia, February 6.
By this day's Mails.
' M
NEW-YORK, February 4.
By the British Packet Carteret, arrived here from
Falmouth, we .have received our regular files of
papers to the 25th November:—Papers have
been also receit*d to the ift of December, from
which we (hall, in addition to our extra&s this
day, give further details on Monday.
RATISBON, October 18.
■Abdrfss presented to the Emperor by the Diet »f
Retijbon.
The Diet rejoice wii'n every good German, in
feeing so great a part of the Empire delivered from
the enehiy, by the rapid and multiplied vidtories
of the Aultrian armies ; and of themselves
freed frem that imminent danger with which the
appeoach of the French threatened the place of
their fitting, They hasten in their Srft meeting
after the vacation, to teftify decidedly the lively
interelt which they take in, the happy events and
enterprises executed with such brilliant success un
der the (kilrul direction of liis Royal Kighnefs the
Archd ; Charles, a Prince already rendered iiluf
trious by his heroic valour and his enlarged views,
as well as by theemisent fcrvices which hehasper
farmed to the German Natioa.
Perfectly convinced of the important advantages
which h»A'erefulted from the operations of the Auf
triah armies—operations which alone formed the
conftitntional prefervatien of the German Empire,
the Diet feel it their duty to address their molt
grateful acknowledgments to his Imperial Majesty
as their geserous and magnanimous defender, for
the exteaordinary efforts that he has made for the ,
general good, and humbly recommend the Empire
to his gracious protection.
"While the Diet make this fineere declaration &f 1
their warmtft gratitude, theyjoin to it their most ,
earned wishes, that Prsvidcnce may bestow on the 1
undertakings which the auguli chief of the Empire i
stall hereafter form, all that aid snd those bencdic- .
turns which his beneficent and indefatigable cares i
merit which are due to his paternal endeavors, for 1
the prefcrvation of the Empire in general, as well I
as for the obtaining a just and permanent peace. 1
FRANCE. .
PARIS, November 16. t
Nete frem Lord Mdmfjbury in Reply t » the Letter t
fr,m the Miniver of Foreign Jffairt, dated the I
2sd Brumaire, Nev. 13. ,
The undersigned will not fail to transmit to iris 1
Court the Note which he has just received from the 1
Minister for Foreign Affairs. He also declares, f
thot he stall be in the situation of expediting Cou. i
Tiers to his court every time that the official com- t
munications which fl.all be made to him (hall require }
lpecial inftru&ions.
n . „ MALMESBURt t
rafts, Ast>. 14, 1796.
M. Ellis, who has been added to Lord Mahaes. \
burysembafly set out yesterday for London— ]
It is said be is soon to return to Paris, with frefc a
inftrua,ens from h„ CM*. Thr nSSM&f'
wiii ci jcmrie, be at a (timftTll bis return. . There i
has not Wen, as far as appears, an y note presented ,
on etliier fide, except what have been made public, t
' the of the Plenipotentiary, to the de- a
mand made by 'Charles Delacroix, to know if he
fend a " ew courier to his cabinet upon every ,
scmmumcauen. We are assured thaUord Malrne,' 1
bury has answered he should do it, when the im- ,
portance of the cifficulties to aniwer appeared to
to demand it. That Charles Delacroix oß ght 1
not t» befiirpnzed at it, since he himfelf always f
takes the orders of the Dire-dory, and never gives
en anfwei without conferring *ith them
Wefend to the Houfeof Austria the advances .
which England has made to us, {, i s now fmain
that the Conner, who departed frem the army of ,
Italy to Vienna, was charged with proposals to the <
Emperor so.-a separate peace, and particularly to (
demand a paflport for a negociator. This passport' r
appears to have been granted—for a minitter Pleni- f
potentiary has been named to go to Vienna He
is an Iriftsman, by the nime of Clark, little known Y
as a general, and never employed in any diploma. r
tic chaiafltr, but who has been along time con- (
verfant m the affairs of -he committee of p„b>ie '
fafety. _ Car. there net be found among Frenchmen ,
a man capable of (hewing the republic that we are
pot obliged to entrust so irnporte.it a mission to a f
foreigner and an Irifhroan.
November 17.
A revolution has taken place in 1 the port of Brest- t
Tice-admtral Villaret Jayeufe is fupei ceded, and is y
succeeded by Morad uegall, who p,eceded him
What can have occasioned such a change ? For the ,
reft, the expedition preparing at Brest is not given ,
the f tra^ P ° rU With ,r °°P S ' tM fail r
the line, and several frigates, are ordered to be ready
to fail. We do n.t know the defti n3t ior .f the .
aimament, nor can we conceive the purport ot it -
—Ps
a vlv iS in L refpfa 0f moae y r
a very diftroffed state.; the different bureaus have v
been (hut for this month, and there is neither me- I
ney n.r ma«dats for the officer, who are obliged to J
stay at Brest, and yet have not wherewith t<» live .
Ihe order for the pay mcnt of their fa , aneg
the .amt footing a.the laid forces, namely, a quarter ,
ih .pccic, is net executed for want of mfcner. i
Some officess who were starving, 'and bad fold-all V
£T the irten- c
dant of the police to felicit of „h a , had \
ov.n so long due to them ; they <fef lr ed, if b
were not paid they wight have the mfufal given to •,
tkcm in writing- The officers accordingly very in- a
nocenily $ r ntd their petition, an d all who Wd it
were immeoutely put in a ftatp oU,r^.—fi er / et r.
No official news has been published f, r f oms t ; m \
mi--w. „
Vice admiral Martin ha, quitted the command of i t
t»e lou.oii fquadroa, and is succeeded by citizen ii
Baucq, a general officer oi diilinguifhed ability i s
■ November 19.
A Utter from Cooflantiuople of the -24th of
September, announces, that the Porte is decided
to fend an ambaflader, who is to make s permanent
stay at Paris- Ali Effeudi is appointed to hold that
miflion.
On the Bth instant, Don Juan de Laigasa, com
mander in chief of the Spanilh fleet, entered the
3 road of Toulon with fifteen ftiips of th: line and
f eight frigates, which, including the fobr Spanish
c (hips and three frigates which arrived there before,
q makes the whole Spaaifh force in that harbour
g amount to nineteen ship* of the line and eleven
frigates.
The administration of Ferrara lias suppressed the
inquisition, otherwise called the holy office.
f An official letter from Cayenne, dated Prarial
20, confirms the death of Collet d'Herbois in that
1 iDand. He left all his efiefls to Billaud Varennes,
1 j who lived in a small town eight leagues from Cay
i enne, chiefly occupied in rearing parrot*,
j A ietter from Mantua of the" ijjth ult. corobo
: rates she intelligence, that Mantua is reduced to the I
; last extremity.
From Strasbourg we learn, under the isth inft.
that the amy near the Khel remains quite iuaSive.
The advanced guards, whiah face each other, had
not for ft veral days pad (ired a single shot; this re
vives the hopes of a speedy armistice.
LONDON, N ol, emher i®.
The dispatches receivad by government, from
lard Malmelbury on Wednesday last, although they
are not of fnch a nature as to present to us the
cheering profpeft of an immediate peace, arc tie
verthelefs calculated te keep the object within the
limits of our view, and to preserve te all -parties the
means of attaining the great end, provideS their
profeflions are dictated by finrerity, and their de
liberations governed by wisdom and prudence.
Xhe note of his lordflsip to the executive direc
tory, on rrkreiving his frefh inftruftions, end the
anfvver to it, (q correal tranflatioii of which ap
peared in eur last, p. 479,) are entitled to theut
moit attention. It will appear obvious, a
perufai of them both, thac the delay whieh has
hitherto occured in the blifinefs ef the negociation
is to be afcriljed, not to any reluctance on the part
British cabinet to meet the question in a
rair and candid manner, or to their want of refpeil
to the new order of things in Fiance, but to the
formal spirit of the direiSory, who, at the fame
time that thry display an evident difpofitiou to pro :
tract the negoeiation, and manifell an obvious inat
tention to the urgent desire of the BritiHi plenipo
tentiary to enter immediately upon the fubjeft of
his mifTion, demand to have pointed out to them
the objecft of reciprocal compenfatien whieh his
iordfl»ip has to propose. This proceeding amounts
jo nothing left than a refufal on their part to af
ford any explanation whatever as to their views and
incentiens, although they call tipon hit' lordlhip,
before they confant to treat with him, to express
tiimfelf fully upon every point.
The manner in which lord Malmefbury's note
treats the insinuations contained in the answer of
the dire&ory to his fir ft memorial is worthy the
honor and chara&er of the, British government.
His majesty thinks it beneath his dignity li hllow
any reply whatever r« .—1 < f*,r»?
lions, contenting himfell with making the'wife and
impressive obfervatiori, »'• that is neither by re
proaches, as difguftißg as they are- without founda
tion, nor by reciprocal insults, that a sincere wifl» to
accomp ilh thegrand work of peace can beevineed."
The negociation, we understand, is again fuf 1
pended until the arrival of further inftruitions to
lord Malme&ury ; and it is probable that the ilTae
of this important will depend, in a great
measure, upon the nature of the next dispatches
from our cabinet, which are expe&ed to be imme- '
diately forwarded to his lordftiip. '•
ExtraA of a letter from Bremen, Nov. u. '
" The affair of the 24th ult. has proved equally
glorious to the imperial Charles as the aflions of
the 19th, 20, and 21ft. The archdnke.Attacked
the enemy in their formidable entrenched position
on the heights of Schlingen. The noble army of
Conde were the firft Engaged on, that they acted
nobly there can be no doubt : the battle continued
nine successive hours. Th# archduke was every
wheve ; his presence gave new vigor to the heroes
he commands. The French, in fine, after vario.s
proofs of obflinate ferpeity, were forced from their
strong hold, and fell Uaek in difcHer, .luring -the
mglii,. towards Caltenherberg, near which place
they teok/a position
The 2 cth, the archduke attempted to bring
the enemy to battle, but the republicans retreated
before the conqueror with the utm.ft precipitation.
Ihe foreh of Marck on the banks of the Rhine
then became their resource. That diy his royal
highneis had his head quarters at Mappach.
I he 36th e\ery preparation was made to drive
the enemy out the wood. Terrified, they made
the best of their way to the TfU-de-Pont near Hu
ningen, which thejr again abandoned. \
i."a A sl e ° n '"" ,er:,ble is taking place in
the Auftnan army.; some afcendijg, s ome
descending the Rnine. General Hotze's division
has re-eroffed the uver at Banfieim ■ the bridge ef
boats m the erfvirons of Philipihotirg has been car
ried away, when it was Itarr.t that gen. BaUrnon
vil.e Was marching part of. his army toward, the
Upper Rhine; effed*, the environ, of Kaiser!
flauteni, Worms, Spines, and Germerlheim. Were
on the 1 ft itift. mrefted by the French.
" The fort of Kehl is now the grand ebieft of
the archduke', attention ; it is worthy of hi, Ta
our, and no doubt is eatertau.cd of its
)in his hanLs ; the is begun. Th *
enemy « entrenched camp .is equal in flrength to
lhat trom whence they were driven >efor* Me«tz
by general Clairfait, last campaign. G e». War-'
" In a partial affair OB the 27th, the' French
upenor m number, forced the Aullrians, andLf'
feffed themselves of Bi„gen, which is wi-hi„ fit
league, of Mem* ; Ober and Nieaer Ingelheim of
course, are in their hands. In that ST th,
imperial out pofis extend !rom Alzey, by Spreid
" No news from Mantua, except that three
f gates of ilia fortrefs are free } from which it may
i be inferred, that the French have been
t latily worsted. The 2 (ft nit. general Wormfer
t was at Goitta : it is said that the Austrian, were
that day at Verona. "~
ExtriiSl of a letter from the Cove of Cert, No*. 12.
" This moment advice has been received, that the
Cerbenn, Capt. Drew, is now off the harbor with j
prizes, viz. a French privateer of 12 guns, a large
Jamaica ship of 60© tons burthen, and- a large ship from
the Cape of Good Hope, both bound to London, taken
by the French and retaken by the Cerherui—file chafed
another brig privateer into Sit John Warren's squadron
—which we learn was taken by them and sent into
Falmouth.
" Admiral Kiagfmill's eruizers being constantly at
sea, meet the fifceefs they are so justly entitled to. No |
farther particulars are yet known ; the Cerberu. failed
frem thence the 2fth tit. in company with the squa
dron undtr comtnand of captain Falkner of the Di
ara." -
November 19.
Extract of a letter from Exeter, Xov. 13.
" A general meeting of the merchants and mi-
I nufafturers of Ecceter was held here o« the loth
j inft. and the state of trade having keen taken into
sonfideration, it was unanimoufiy That from
the beginning of the war the trade of this city has
labored under great and unprecedented fliladvantages
and thai lately, by the shutting of almolt every port
in Eiirepe, te whieh the manufaiSares of this co«n-,
try were exported, there appear reason to apprehend
the molt ferisus eoHtequ.ncci, the laboring poor in
th»& parts being generally dep/ived ef employment
by'the total stagnation oJ' commerce.
" The following memorial to the privy ceuneil
was also drawn up and agreed to, and ordered to be
transmitted to all the manufacturing towns of Eng.
land :
" To the lords of his raajefty's most honorable
Privy Council.
" The memorial as the merchant, and manufa&u
rer» of Exeter and its vicinity, assembled at a ge
neral meeting of their chamber ef commerce,
for taking into consideration the fUte of their
traae.
*• The measure, of reiitff which your letdfhips
were pleased to suggest in reply te our memorial of
the 25th of July last, having been all defeated hy
iubfequent events, and the date of our trade be
coming every day more critical, we preAimeto so
licit your lerdfliip, attention to ov.r inercafed dis
tress.
" In the north of Italy our property is conlif
cated-; to the louth we have no longer access ; re
cent eecurre»ce9 have rendered the navigation of
the mediterranean so perilous, that we cannot be
covered by any premium of insurance which our
trade will bear. The vessels dispatched from this
port for the fair of Salerno, by the July convoy,
to the amount as toe,oool. appear by the last ad
vices to be still at Gibraller, waiting for further co.i
voy. The Queen of Naples, another of our ves
sels worth above 40,000]. is now under aa embargo
it Genoa.
" To Spain and Portugal we look with extreme
anxiety. The ports of the former country (a chief
market of our manufactures) are not only hot a
gaiaft us, at a moment when our wareheufea and
veffd, are filled with goods preparing for the win
ter caniuraption ; but reports of-an a&ual fequef
tr<tt inn-fffp; .. . yr tt*n 'fo~
dif hirgc bills of exchange, meaftres which, if car
ried into effeift, mull be attended with fatal confe
qiienct-3. In rhefe ports also, many of oar vessels
are embargoed with caigoes to a very great amount.
" In Germany, the operations of waT ' render
credit precarious and property insecure. The mar
kets of Flanders and Holland are no longer open.
With the other parts of Europe ami of the globe
we have little intercourse.
" To this confifcation of our property, detenti
on of our funds, and annihilation of our trade, is
added an extraordinary embarrassment arising from
a failure of the usual facilities df credit.
" Your lerdfhips need not be informed that the
trade of this port consists in the exportation ef
woollen goods, raanufn&ured in this city and
t throughout the county of Devon ; a suspension
refore, ef our export®, especially under the cir.
nltances, we have enumerated, puts an entire
fxop to the industry of these parts ; and the dif
tresses of our labourers, already ' very great, mnft
loon become extreme.
Under the pressure of these evils we conceive '
we are difchargmg a duty in presenting this memo- ,
rial, that your lardfliip, way be nwart of our fit«-
ation.
(Signed) -Edmund Grange*, Chairman."
Exeter, Nov. 10, 1796 "
Accounts from Lilian by the last mail fay, that
the council of war,has issued several decrees order- '
ing thefilling up ef each regiment of artillery and
marines to race men. Every regiment of infan
try is likewise augmenting to 983 men, and the'ea
valry to 903. A new legion 0 £ light troops isal
io raising ; and the auxiliary thirds are in future to
be .ooked upon as regiments of militia for t,heir
respective province,, and their captains to rank-as
colonel. Don Rodriga Condriko, late Plenipoten
is appointed Miniftef ef Murine.
Ihe rrench general Garniit has written to Bu- ,
onapare, infa, m i nff him that the Barbets, or Pied
montefe robbers are totally defeated and dispersed :
that Freron, their chief, is killed .; and that no day
them WU the (hootin g o{ Wo or twelve ef
. Count Naffaa Cerroy, a friend of Vander Noot,
is arretted 5 he was a member of the estates of Bra
ant, a. President of the war department in the
r'jT" 1f 179 ; He i 5 said to have 'corref- I
ponded w.th fevciaUther persons, in various parts
Z* tn " Low coantne,, to effect a counter-revohTti- '
Ver'p m ha¥C b " n a PP at Ant-
The hereditary Prince of Wirtemberg, the in
tended consort of 01,r Princess Royal, was at Vi- 1
SSBSL?^«-s,
f u Hf ' nrfs of wh, 'ch hisfcrene high-
M2B the oeg ° iator wilh imperial cabinet
w«u accHpY thre<: follr weeks at least.
Admiral Sir James Wallace, governor and naval
? f Newfoundland is returned '
m that Nation, where he lrft all fafe en the he
he vcrv cold lhe weath^ , a ,
Y cold ' V d P«'tso«!eJ a tigofou. feaful It
' ! now =PP"r» repnrts had very
C ? Hi-ry 1 * d *" e ? reHch f< ! u » dr °n ««•
Yesterday a council of the cabinet minister. wa»
held at Lord Grenville's office, at which feme fur
1 f.r Lord Malmefrury were ma de
out Mr. Hunter, fen. ia the bearer of them to
his l.rdfc.p : he fe out on hi, j.urney this morn
ing.
Extract if a letter f rora Plymouth, Nov. 16.
" Arrived this morning t fc c ft j Friendfliip,
X' I*™' w,tl l* car S»»f wheat fiom the Cap.
ef »jood Hf»pe, from whe.ee she brought passen
gers and dispatches. She was captured on the 25th
«lt. by la Voit.re, Freßch privateer, of J4 ?U ns
and ioex men, aftpr an action of 49 minutes, in
which lieut. Fitzgerald, of the 95th regiment,'wa»
unfortunately killed by a mulket ball, which passed
through his head 5 and retaken on the 4th inft. by
the Cerberus frigate, captain Drew, belonging t.
admiral Kingfmill't fquadroq.
" The Friend&ip left the Cape on the ?d of Au.
gust. The dispatches were thr.wa overboard du.
ring the a&i.n, aid funk.
" Capt. Blask reports, that another Cape (hip
with wheat and rice, had beat off the privateer
which captured the Friendfliip.
" Arrived a small French cutter privateer cal
led le Hirandelle; of four gtm, pr ; 2e to the ' Cer
bems frigate, which fh.'p was left in ehace of ano
ther privateer when the above left her.
« This morning a very hard jaleof winU came
oh at south weft, and continued with great violence
untd noon. The Vengeur French privateer, (late
tfie King C-eorge packet,) prize to the Santa Mar.
garetta frigate, whieh here yesterday f rom
Cork, parted her cables in Cat-water, and vvasdri
ven on shore In Deadman's bay, where her mails
were cut away, and great part of her ft» r es taken
out. The weather became m.re moderate this as
ternoon, and (he is got .ff with.ut having reeeived
«ny material damage in her hull.
" A large 1 leaded bug is a!fo an (bore in Fire
ftone bay, and a fifhing smack under Teat's Hill
" The Santa Magaretta and Crane in the Sound
r.cie out the gale very well. '
" Arrived the Florette C.mmerci.m, ander
American colors, laden with btandy and wine
from Bourdeaus, fupp.fed to he bound to Ham!
br..' Soon after she arrived, three .f her cr.w
quitted her, and gave information to':kc.lieutenant
of the Santa Margaretta commanding the Bucna
parte French privateer, prize to that ftiip.fhat her
oargo was-wholly French property:; on which he
boarded, and took pofleffion ®f her as a;priie.
" The remains of the Amphion are hauled t»
'the Yard, below the Hiberaia of nogunj, build
ing, where she is to be broke up."
Extra®: ef a letter from Portsmouth, Nov. 17.
" This afternoon arrived the fqaadr.n under the
command or Rear Admiral Sir Roger Qjrtis, with
a French merchant brig, prize tothe said squad.
ron.
" Last night, in a heavy gale .f wind the Cor
vette prize to the Melampus, was driven en fliore
011 the Spit, and had her rudder beat off. She
this morning was got off, and it come i«o the har
bour. —
" itns day the "RioeSuek catter brought int.
Portsmouth, and lodged in the custom-house,. aboat
2eo caflcs of fpi its, which were taken last night
in a cutter off rhe Isle of Wight "
Extract of a letter from Weymouth, Nov 17.
■cir"r^ h ' S - da7 ° rn,ed Port,Bnd from the
Weft .ndies, his Majesty's frigate Beaulieu, Cap.
tain Skinner, bearing the lag of .Rear Admiral
Sir H. C. Christian K. B. The Beaulien failed
from Martinique the 3d of Oft. at which time the
iflatids were in a tranquil state, and the following
flups and vessels or war at anchor in Fort Royal
Bay: '
Oueen 5 Y' cc Ad. Sir ff. Parker
f iOapt. M.DoWon
Prinee of Wales at $ J* ear H - Harvsy
7 I Capt. J- H rvev
Vengeance 74 T. M. Ru*"l
Valiant 74 — jr. lEarvey
Thunderer . - 7 4. —J. Bo wen
Carnatie i 4 Jenkins
Expedition cutter Lieut. R. Lilburne ,
" Rear Ad. Bligh in the Brunfwick arrived at Fort
Royal on the 21A of September, and failed again en
the i£th with tht trade for St. Domingo.
" AdmirakChnftian Uwded here, and set off imme
diately for London."
Extraji: of a letter from Yarmonth, Nov. ji.
" Information ktving been received en Tiefday
that t French privateer had given ehace to two Lei
den traders belonging to this port, and fired at one,
but that ,a collier in company giving her a gun, flie
thought proper to (beer off; hismajefty's hired armed
eutter, captain Menry Pafcall, immediately proceeded
in q«eft of lier, and yesterday we had the pleafare to
fee her brought into these roads. She proves to be the
Bold Beggar of Dunkirk (half on her stern the Pally
of Weymouth), arid carries two carriage guns, a.
nnefkets, beides cutlafles, and si men."
His majesty's fliip Trnfty of 50 guns, captain OP
born, now at Sheernefs, is under orders to fail for the
Cape of Good Hope, with lord Macartney and his
suite. His lordship has completed ever)- neceflary ar
rangement for his departure.
Thursday the powder-mills at Hounflow were again
blown up. There were two explolions, the firft took
place about 12 o'cloek, and the second direrflly after
wards in consequence of one ef the corning houses
having taken 4re. The ihocks were severely felt within
a mile or two round the neighborhood, and lix unfor
tunate men loft their lives.
November iz.
On Saturday evening Mr. Ellis, who aceompanied
Lord Malmelbury to Paris as his confidential fHeiid,
arrived in town with dispatches from his lordftip. He
came from Boelogne in the Union Packet, by which
are alTai received the Paris gazettes tu ihe jtt init. lil
cluhve. \
These papers contain the sequel of lord Malmcfcury's
correfpendence with tbe minister for foreign affairs.
Mr. Ellis i§ come to Loridon for further inftruAiens,
and yesterday went t. Mr. Pitt's at Helwood, where
he pafled the day. He will return immediately t# Pa
ris. - ,
OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE.
NeteaddrelTed by Lord Ma!mtjburj\o the ■aiaiftei"f»r
the department ®f foreign affairs. /
" The undersigned does not hesitate a moment t.
answer the two qt sSians which you are charged te
i3ropofe te him on the part of the Executive Directory.
" The memorial pVefentcd this morning by the u«-
derfigned propofss, in express terms on the part of hm
raajefty the king of GrSat-Britain, to eompenfate bypro»ortienatc rtftifutiene, the arrangements which
A France will have to agree t© »n order to fatufy the jaft
claims of tie allies of the king, and to preserve the po
litical balinee of Europe.
« Before this priatiple i« formally approve* ot, or
another proposed on the part of the Executive Direc
tory, which raiy equally ferveasa basis ot the nego
ciation for,a general peace, the nnderGgned cannot be
authorized to paint out the objetfls of reciprocal reftitu-
As to the proof of the pacific dispositions which
hi! majeftv the emperor and kingteftified towards the
French government at the opening of the caayjaigii,
tie «*deriigned contents himfelf to repeat the follow
ing paffagt from the r.ote of Baron Degelmann, of the
4th of lad June —
' The warlike operations ftali by no means prevent
« his Imperial majesty from being constantly liifpoferf
« to coneur, according to any form ot negociation
« which may be adopted by the belligerent powers, in
" < the L':fcnffioo of such means as may be property put
• a period to the further effufion of human blood.'
" This note was presented after the arraiftice hati
heeri broken off.
" MALMESBUKT.
" Pari«, lath 1796."
Answer of the minister of the department of foreign
affairs to the preceding noft>.
" The snderfigned is charged by tfce Executive Di
rectory to declare to you, iff answer to your second note
of -yesterday, that he has nothing to add to the answer
wlncly has bee»/ddrefled to you. He is further charg
ed to ask of. vou, whether, on every official communi
cation between yon ami him, it will be necessary for
you to difqatch a courier for the|purpofe of receiving
lpccial inttruitions.
'• CH. LACROIX."
Letter addrefled to the minister for the department of
foreign affairs by Lord Malmejbnry, envoy of the
x British cabinet.
" The minister plenipotentiary of his Britannic
majesty rcquefts the minister for the department of
foreign affairs to inform him, whether he ought to
consider the official note which he reeeived from him
lafr sight as the answer to that which Lord Malmef
bury delivered yesterday morning by order of his
court, to the minister of the department of foreign
affairs. He Hefires this explanation, tint he may not
retard the departure ot his *ourter'To no purpole
(Signed) " MALMESSVRT.
" Paris, 13th November, 1796."
Answer of the minister for the department of so
* reign affairs, to the preceding letter from Lord
Malmejbury
" The underfigncd minister for the department of
foreign affairs declares to Lord Malmejbury plenipo
tentiary of his Britannic maje/ly, that he is to con
fider the official note presented to him yesterday, as
the answer to that which Lord Malmejbury deliver
ed to him en the fame day.
« CH. LACROIX.
" The 23d Brumaire, 5 ye-r (17th Nov.")
Second letter from Lord Malmejbury to the minister
for the department of foreign affairs.
11 Lord Malmefbury has just received the answer of the
minister for the department ot foreign affairs, wherein he
declares that the official note tranfmu cd to bins' yesterday is
to be considered as the answer to that which Lord Malmefbu
ry delivered to him on the tnoming of the fame day.
_ii Lord Malmefbury will this day transmit it to his coil ru
"• Paris, 13th Nov. <706,™
On the above correfpoWence, Perlet's journal makes the
following oblervations—
1 " There ftiil, at may be Ten, the fame refufal on the
part of our mintftry to answer the firft queftirm of the En
gbfh plenipotentiary, '' Is the priaciplr of coinpealation to
be adopted, or rej. ited ? and, in ctle of rejeclioa, what is
to be fubltituted tor it ?
' ' We conceit roncffiv<: *>£ f f
■ policy. It icema to m, however, that, until a
fotmal explanation has been given upon-this gene
ral piinciple, there cannot exilt a right to demand
«f Lord Malraefbury an exact delignaiion of the ob
jcils of reciprocal compeufation. We are furry to
agree, on this jtibjetft, with the English note bat
'this agreement is nut a motive for coacealing ttuth. j
Do not the plained good sense and the molt natu
'ral realWiiing point out, in fait, this condnft ?
Why do not the Directory m.ike'known the mo
tive which induced theui to deviate from it since
it is certain they have fame Motives i After
having exclaimed so much against the antient eti
quette, and what is called the diplomatic routine,
-fl v i 11 we, fo{ an affair of form and useless refetve,
ride, at every moment the breaking off the negocia
tion, and the extinction of' the hope of peace?
What a fire thing, in a negeciatian of this fort, is
the conceited trifling of a man, who, because he
is juitly reproached with having uttered iiyfenfe,
appears refolvcd to fpe3lt uo more ! How'can tt(e
Dirc&ory avoid feeing, ihat insensibly, and in spite
©f them, we are tending to that point at which no
thing will re-nain for him but to order the depart
ure of the Erglifh ajrent from Frrfnce ; and that,
if the Court of London, as is very poiiible, isinlm
cere, it can-desire nothing more ardently than thus
to place on its own fide all the appearances of paci
fic intentions, in order to conciliate the opinion of
Europe, to make the war popular, and u> raise
the public fpfntin England ? How can they be
ignorant t hat j by such haifh nnd infignificant an
swer* as they permit to be given in their name b\
their Minister they put all the advantage of tiie ne
gociation on the lide of Lord fctiry : and
that, notwithllanding the low flatteries of the Re-
Ja(fteur,_tbe public l»egin to believe, that, although
England may not be very eager to conclude a
peace, the Direftary are more evidently careless
aboat it, notwithstanding the fad lituation of our
finances, and the distress of our marine. Why do
they not fay, that the skill of Lord Malmefbury,
and the ignorance of our,nr£jociator, may equally
concur to obtain credit for this dangerous opinion ?
" It is with regret we are obiged to pufelifli these
relcdlions, the difcloftsre of which is, perhaps,
without some inconvenience. But all pufillani
mons confideratioas ■ ought to vanifli before iUt
grand interest of the country ; and fi»ce the Direc
toryp -rlill in giving their confidenee to a Miniftjer
Univ rlally decried, since they are laarcely furrrnin
V>y any other than revolutionary brawlers, who flat
ter them in order to govern in their name, who de
ceive them, and who remove with the greatest care,
thole who long experience, important ftvices,
tilenti, and wife and reasonable patriotism might
<>e so ufefel to thenp, and spare them many faults
•md regrets, it is necessary to convey to them
through the Journals the formidable cry of tha
public opinion and the truth which their flat terers
*0 industriously conceal from them, at the risk of
bringing on their ruin, if to them should one day
be imputed the continuance of the war, and all its
.leeeSary miferies."—Journel de Ptrlcl.
the corrfifpwidcnce it will be fcen that
•ur Miaifters hare a&etf with the utmost firranefs
and candor, only, requiring that the enemy (houl i
agree to some fettled print fple of negociation, while
the Directory have constantly equivocated, and ob
stinately forborne either to accede to the pn H Qjpl c
fuggelted ky oitr Court, or to propose any princi
ple of their own, as a fubft'tute.
Lord Malmefbury's mission may now be con
lidertd as drawing to a speedy termination. It ap
pears, by the officii notes winch have " passed be
tween his Lordthip and M. de Lacroix, {irbfeqnent
ly to t!)ofe publilhed in our last, that the Execu
tive DireiSory persist in their determination neither
to recognizethe jail principle of negoeiation pro
posed by his Majefly, nor to offer any other in its
stead, which may serve as a basis on which to nego
tiate a general peace; that is, they refufe to an
fwer this reasonable and necefftiry queftinn at "the
" English Plenipotentiary, " Is the principle of re
" procal cosnpenfitions to be adopted as a basis, or
" rrjefted ? and in cafe of rejeflion, what is to be
" fubftitu,tet« for it ?" After such a refufal, we can
no longer hope for Peace from the present negoeia
tion. The Dire&ory, by their couduft oh this
occasion, have shewn that their temper it as intrac
table as their profeflions are inlincere ; and the
world raufl be convinced from what has passed,
that the Solicitude ps the British Qovernment for
the restoration ps peace has been pushed to a degree
th'at borders on humiliation. The people of France
will not fail to fee the anxiety of Great Britain to
teiminate the effufion of human, blood, and to dif
cever the fangntnary and remoifelefs spirit of their
owa rulers.
Lord has fully answered theqoeftion
of M. de Lacroix, refpefling the dispositions man-
I felled by the Emperor at the commencement of the
present campaign.
Thr State Paper delivered by Baron
the Emprfci's Minister at Basil, to M. Barthele
mi, the French Plenipotentiary there, on the 4th
of June lsfl, appears from the above official corres
pondence, entirely to have escaped the 1 ecolltdtion
of Executive DireAory. This we believe ri>
he the %(S, and the advantage which the tlelivery
of that paper at Basil, and the manner in which it
has been lately introduced hafe given to the British
negotiator, (independent of the sincerity, candour
and spirit ot the British Ministry) seems to Jiiave
irritated and inflamed the minds of the Dire&ory
in a very great degree. The publicity now given
to the delivery ot that paper on the part of the
Emperor, has made a very llrong imprefG«n
upon the minds of the people of France, and their
eager desire for peace, almost upon any terms, is
now mingled with diflruft aad difaffeftion towards
their own Ministers, as being, fiom authentic proofs
the only perfun6 who impede the speedy restoration
of that blessing-
That the disposition of $he people of Fiance for
peace is ardefot and sincere, every thing tends te
prove, and they by no means poflefs that inveterate
hostility to the English which the ephemeral ruler*
df succeeding faftioni have, for their own purposes,
been eager to represent. The Frendi people, worn
out by foreign war and Homeilic despotism, sigh for
the return of peace, of which thry.fpeak a 6 the
rs,-'tuift HiSs; fr.-n,
the peifonal,views of the present rslersin France,
the exilting negociation fail in producing peace, we
shall not be surprised to fee the return of lord
Malmelhtny the immediate source of a foimidabh
infuireiftion, not only in Paris, but in many of the
adjoining departments.
November 23.
Admiralty Office, November it.
FROM THE LONDON GAZETTE.-
Copy of a letter from Captain Bowen, of his
Majesty's ship the Terpftchore, to Evan Ne
pean, Esq. dated at Gibraltar the of Oc
tober, 1796.
Judging it to be proper that my lords com
miflioners of the admiralty should be acquainted
as loon as possible with the capture of a Spaniih
frigate by his Majesty's ship under my command,
I herewith.inclose you a copy of my letter to the
commander in chief, giving an account of the
action ; and 1 request >ou will be pleased to lay
the fame before their lordships.
of a letter from Capt. Bowen, of his ma
jesty's ship Terpsichore, t» admiral Sir John !
Jarvis, K. B. commander in chief of his majes
ty's ships and veflels in the Mediterranean, da
ted at Gibraltar the 23d of October, 1796.
On the morning of the 13th inft, at day-light,
we discovered a frigate to windward, standing
towards us: about eight I could perceive her
making every preparation for battle, and was
then apparently in tkafe of us. Our situation al
together was iuch as to prevent my being over
deiirous of engaging her. Out of our fmali com
plement of men, we had 30 at the hospital, and
we had more than that number still op board in
our sick convalescent lifts, all of whom were dan
geroully ill or extremely weak. We were scarcely
out of fight of the spot where we knew the Spa
nish fleet to have been cruifmg only two days be
fore ; and, in fa<3, we had flood-on to look for
them, with a view of ascertaining their move
ments. A frtiall Spanifli which we con
jeftured to be a fort of tender, was palling us,
fleering towars so that I could hardly
flatter myfelf with being able to bring the frigate
: off in the event of a victory, or of even escaping
myfelf, if disabled. t)n the other hand, it evi
dently appeared that nothing byt a flight and su
perior failing could enabte me to avoid an ftftion;
and to do tiiat- from a frigate apparently not so
much superior to us, except in point of bulk,
would have been committing the character of one
of his Majesty's ships more than I could bring
myfelf to resolve on. I therefore continued stand
ing without any alteration of course.
Having, wish infinite fatisfaftion and comfort
to myfelf„ commanded the Terpsichore's crew for
two ygars and a half, through a pretty confidera
bie vatiety of services, 1 welj knew the veteran
fluff which I had still left in health to depend up
on for upholding the character of Britifh 1 seamen,
and I felt my mind at e.tfe.as to the termination
of any action with the frigate in fight only.
At half past nine she came within hail, and
hauled her wind on our'weather beam ; and as I
conceived she only Waited to place herfelf to ad
vantage, and to point her guns with ex«ttous,
. and being myfelf unwilling to lose tie portion
We were then rn. I ordered one gun to be fired,
as a trier of her intention. It was lb inflantane
oully returned, and followed up by her whdle
broadside, that I am confident they mtftt havfe
done it at the fight of our ftalh. The adtion of
courle"V ent on, and we soon discovered that her
people woul'd not, or could not, refill our fire.
At the end of about an hour and forty minutes,
| during « hich time we had twice wore, and em
j ployed about twenty of the last minutes in chafe,
! lhe surrendered. At this period lhe appeared
mod entirely disabled, and we bad drawn up
close alongside, with every gun well charged and
well pointed. It was nevertheless,- with consi
derable difficulty that I prevailed on the Spanilh '
Commander to decline the receiving of such a
broadside by submitting ; aijd from every thing
which I have since learned, the perfonaJ courage,
tonduft, and zeal of that officer, whose name is
Don 1 hamas Ayald, was such during the action,
notwithstanding the eventof it, asrefle&s on him
the greatft honour, and irrefillibly imj-reiTes on
my mind the highell admiration of his character.
After (from the effefls of our fire} all his booms
had tumbled down, and rende ed his waite guns
unserviceable, all the {landing rigging of his low
er mails Ihot away, and I believe nearly every ,
running rope cut thraugh, and a great numbfr i
of his'people kilted and wounded, he llill
vered (though tie could rally but few ofhis men)
he defended his (hip, altnoft lajiger tiiart defence
was jultifiable. Had there been the fnialleft mo
tion in the sea every mail must inevitably have
gone by the board.
Our loss (which will appear by the inclosed
lift) has been less than cauld have been expected;
but our mails, fails, and rigging were found to
be pretty niuch cut up.
Ihe fpinted exertions of every officer, mail
and boy, belonging to the {hip 1 command, as
well in the adtion as in the securing two disabled
{hips, and bringing'them instantly off from a cri
tical fixation by taking the prwe in tow, and by
their incessant labour ever lince, will, 1 trust,
wlien their small number is considered, place
them in a light superior to any praise which I
could bestow. I am even unwilling to speak of
the particular conduct of any of the officers, but
the talents dilplayed by the .First Lieutenant
(Devonlhirej who was but just out of our lick
lift, during the action, added* to his uncommon
fatigue in taking care of the prize, and the very
able manner in whicn he conducted and prepared
to defend her, entitles him to this diftinftion, and
proves him highly deserving of the recommen
dation you gave him, with his appointment in
the Well-Indies. And although I nad rather any
other person (hould observe the conduct of a
brother ot mine in action, and speak of it after
wards, yet I feel it my dutv, as Captain of the
Ihip, to (late, that I thought Mr. Bowen's (the.
Second Leiutenant) conduct was particularly
animating to the {hip's company, and ufeful,
from the number of guns which he saw
well pointed in the course of the action ; added
to which, from the absence of the firft lieutenant
on board the prize, the labouring oar of this lfcip
has fallen on him ; and, in my mind, the talk we
liaTe lwkvl the actiou has been infinitely more
arduous than that of the action it'felf.
I he name of the prize is the Mahonefa, carry
ing on the main deck 26 Spanilh tvvelves, (weigh
ing eighteen ounres more than our's) eight
uiih l:xes on the quarter-deck, and a number of
brass cohoi V ns, fwivelj, &c.; had on board 275
men, besides fix pilots, qualified for the Mediter
ranean as high as Leghorn, and to be put on
board admiral Langara's fleet, which lhe had been'
tent from Carthagena to lop i f»r. She was built
in 1789 at Mahon, is of very large -dimensions,
mealuring 1 ri3 tons and a half Spanilh, was be
fore the action in complete good condition, and
is considered by the Spanilh officers the fafteft
lailor, and one of the bell conllructed, and, what
th€y attach considerable importance to, the hand
somest frigate in their navy.
Both the frigates have this moment anchored
infafety. lam, fcc. R. BOWEN.
An account of the killed and wounded in the ac
tion between his Majesty's {hip Terpsichore,
and the Spanilh frigate Mahonefa, on the 13th
of Oft, 1796. •
Terpsichore mounts 32 twelve and fix poun
ders ; complement of men 21c.
Killed.—None.
Wounded.—Mr. Pilchard Hobbs (aftlng Boat
swain) {lightly in-the foot; John Roberts (-Quar
ter Master) loft his left thigh, and two seamen.
Mahonefa, by the best accounts 1 have been !
able to collect, had about 30 killed or died of i
their wounds the day of the action, and about the ,
fame number wounded, leveral of whom are since
dead.
College-Hall.
Readings and Recitations,
M»ral, Critical, and Entertaining.
On TUESDAY, February, jth,
■At 7 o'clock, willVe delivered
The EFFECTS of AMBITION ahd OUILT,
Exemplified In .the character of
Satan,
As displayed by Milt«n,
With Recitation! of the most ftrikinf of his. speeches
1 and soliloquies, and moraland critical observations an the
charat&er and the author. ,
Ob Thurfday^
The above fu' jest continued, and exemplified ia the
Fall of Man
Tickets to be had of Mr. Poulfon, jim. at the Library ;
at mr. M'Elwee's lookiiig-glrfs-ftore, fio. 70, S. Fourih
llreet; a«d at Mr. Carey's, BookXeiler, Market-llreet—
Half a dollar each.
Will he pnli'Jhed, an Wedntfday next,
BY Melf Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the other
Bookfe.lers, price One Dollar an<i twenty-five cents, elegant
ly printed on woye paper, and hot-preifed, by John Thomp
foii,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
Tie CONSTITUTIONS •/ the federal States-, »
With eaeh other, and with that of the United States:
exhibiting in Tallies, the promineat features of caeh Con
stitution, aad clafiing together their most important pro
yifions, under tiie several head* of adminiftratioa ; with
Notes and Qbfervations. By William Smith, bf Soath-
Carolina, L L. D and member of the Congress of the
Uaited States. Dedicated to the Peopla of the United
States.
N. B. A few Copies printed on an inferior paper, at
J-4th»«f a dollar. February 6 mwf
Philadelphia, f *
MONDAY EVENING.- FiBRUARY 6, 1797- -
A late Charlellon paper states Rice to be dull at II i
'(■ I if.
t N E. \V THEATRE.
0 rWAt's excflfunt tragedy, Venice PrcCerv'd, was on
Friday evening prefentedto a fafhionable (and we are for
ty we cannot ;dd crowded) au.fience; aad a mor> cxcil
lent treat thin ihis aigUt's pcrtorn' ince, was pe'h-ips ne
ver before (ffrred to the lovers of t'rama.- The tears
Which f» abundantly filed, aiTiirJ the mod unequivo
cal proof of the intrinsic merit of this admirable drama, i
and of the juftiee done it hy tit performers.
We anderfland that the lir fideflt of the United itates
'wiUhonor the 'I'heatte with hisprefence this evening.
The moijrnfulnefs of th&dtradful csttallrophe which lately
overwhelmed the family of Mr. BKO'.vN,>he printer of the
Philadelphia Gazertr, was heightened by the death of Mr.
Brown himfelf, expired oh Saturday morning.
This Ihockingexiioftion ol a whole familv, fumilhes mat
tenfor ferrous reflection to the mo alift. and which.the giddy
and diflip ted ought to improve to their reformation We
trust it will aifo operate as a cautionary lefTon in relpeft to
that refilUefs element which has occasioned this direful cala
mity. The rerasias of Mr Brown were iaterred near those
ot his familv, in St Paui's grave-yard.
Dr. Magaw, yafterday afternoon, delivered, in St, Paui's
Churcti, a most affefliug difenurfe, to a very crowded audi
ence, in reference to this mod diftrefliag event, from J<>*,
ch. 3 v. 7.
" Lo, let that night he solitary ; let no joyful voice come
therein.
Extract of a Letter from New York, February 3.
" The Packet is arrived which (ailed the 7th of D cem
ber : as yet, no other news has tranlpired but that Ncmacia
tions lor Peace hadceafed,"'
Extract of a letter from Robert Fox Esq. Consul of the Uni
ted States, daied Falmouth {tugland/Nov. iS. 1796.
» A vcffel arrived to-dav from l.ifbont and the miller re
ports that at Madrid, the populace would not permit Lord
Bute to depirt ; andih« tlia Spanifii and French Mmillers
at Madrid had been ml'ulted. I have no other autnoi iiv than
the master of ihe Ship ; who fays further, that the house of
the Spanilh Minider was burnt ; but I can hardly think its
true."
GAZETTE of Titr. UNITED STATES
MARINE LIST.
FRO,M LLOYD'S LIST, fr#m Nov. i to 25.
• _ Sailed from GiavefenJ.
10, Friends, Calvert, Vitgirii*
16, Dexter, Boftoa
17, General Piuckney, White, Charlefttsn
20, Fame, Jones, Philadelphia
23, Bolton Packet, Tenant, CharleHon
Arrived at Giavcfend
Rebecca, Newel, frem Virginia
Chatles, Blount,
Rilfen, Shore,
Mary, Titcombe, ,j 0i
Belvidere, VVeekl, New Yferk
Ganges, Miller,
North Caroliaa, Edgire, Jo.
Rebecca, Thompson, ,j 0-
PAtto, Lawrence, ,j 0 _
Hope, L»ng, Charlelien
Fcderali(l r Pratt, g 0
Hamilton, Farrell, 1 ,f Maryland,
Potomac Chief, j" - Rotterdam
At Cov.es.
Manchefler, Shewell, Philadelphi»
At Portsmouth.
Aurora, Sater, Philadelphia
Factor, Kemp, New-York
' At Falmouth.
Eltza, Besom, Virginia
Hopewell, Clark,
At Dover.
Mary, Earle, 7 bound to Ham (
A£iive, niatr, j burg i Philadelphia
Peggy. Gorvsr, Maryland
. . At Cork.
Lavinia, Brewn, New-York
Mo nt pen ere, Dunce,
lSliia, Hamblin, ( j o '_
' At Bstterda rn. >
Bowen, Dtxon Virginia
.Lexington, M'Kenzie,
Catharine, Ferrady, Philadelphia
«-• At' Cadiz.
Andromache, Kmgfton, Philadelphia
Alexander, Bayne, Vitgitiia
Antosella, Hendrickfon. New York
Hercules, Breger, do
V V ■ J T u At N »P ,el -
Five Friends, Jacobi, Boston
At Gibraltar.
Commerce, CosEs, New-York.
~ ,w At Belfaft.
John and Mary, , Virginia
N At Hambiirgh.
Juftinr, Lewis, New-York
' _ . , At .Lilboß.
Mary, P*oival, Boston
Ihe bng Deborah of Hartford, in America it
loft at Sea- '
lhe Diana, (American) lngraham, from Li
verpool to Georgia, is taken by a cutter privateer
and sent for France. "So faT Lloyd's lift.
The ftiip Hfinnibal, Cloufer, of this port, from
Amsterdam te Lifcoa, was loft on the 291]! Sept
last, near Calais on the French coast ; eaptaia and
ertw saved.
The snow Polly, H flyman, is arrived at Cape
Nichola Mole, 1814 days from this p®rt.
: DVNtIMG
TAUGMTBY
MRS. B r R N,
Of the New Theatre,' To L.dus
THINKING it a great advantage for them''to have a
Fa «° U Tul,r '» that,art, pledges herfelf t» their par
eats and friend, to take all poffiblc care in their infti ufiion.
Inaddu»n to the Dances taujht in Philadelphia, » eiUM
to teach the Minuet, Minuet de la Cour, Allemmd, Ga
vot, Quadrilles, itrathfpeys, and all Scotch Dances : and
above rll to pay partienlar attention to that very necessary
part Pot.u Addrtfs. For particalars enquire of Mr,. Byrn,
No- 70 north Eighth-street. Fckmry6 mwftf
LANDING,
A T Wakut-ftreet wharf, from on board the lhip Pee-
JTY gv, captain Elliott, from Boardeaux,
VIN DE or White Claret, in Hhds aad Qs.
Calks NC: "
RED CLARET, in Hhds
Bitto in cases of 14 and 30 bottles each
Gr«?n and Souchong TEAS, in quarter chests
For f :le by
Rundle b* Leech,
_ , . Nn. 9 Walnat.ftreet.
F * bru "r 6 mwfcfLuncojler, Harrijburgh, Carlijle, Sbif
penjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
The public are r.equefttfi to take notice, that the part
ncrfhip whick has for some subsisted between Mathi- ,
Sl«ugh of Lancaster, and William Geer, is now diifoi
—- ved ; Wt, not as M. Slough insinuates to the public
without jnft cause ; as Will more fully appear by a letter
on the fubje<sfc from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the
29th December last. a recital of which U abt now deemed
ncceffary. Any gentleman who wishes to be more cir
cumstantially informed of the merits of this business, by
applymg to W. Geer may have the perafal ef M. Slough's
letter, aB j the* can be at full liberty whe
ther or not W. Geer is notperfeAly juftifiabie in attach
ing himfelf'to any other person in the profec*tion of the
Stage conveyance from. Philadelphia to ghippenfWurg,
or any other place.
, Now from tbe liberal aad generous support the public
were pleased to confer on the firft effort in "this business,
William Gefer, in conjunction with MeflTrs. Keily, Weed
and Witmer, is determined to prosecute and carry it On,
with every care, attention ana dispatch that a zeal t® c
blige the, public can possibly exert.
The above compniy, who are aftiply provided with
carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to render the
paflagefafe and commodious, inform those who wish to
patronize and encourage the undertaking, that they can
take their feats at George Weed's, the sign of the White
Horse, Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed t® Lancaster, Harrifburg, Gariifle
and Shipppnfbirg. The fare as hitherto eftabliflied.
For the further accommodation of the public, a Stage
will flart every Wednesday from the house of Samuel
Elder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Smnbury in Northumber
land county, every Thursday, and retarn from theoce and
arrive at |Harrifburg every Saturday, so that paflfengers
destined for Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed on
Mondays,
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster, Jan. 27, 1797. t
N. B. This Line of Stages ftarta from the house of
William Ferree, in Lancaster, on every Tuesday and Sa
turday morning at 6 o'clock, proceeding to the westward;
and from the h«nfe of Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrrfburg
every Wednesday morning-, on the fifme evening arrives
at Patrick Cochran's in Shippenfbirg, and returns from
thence on every Tharfday : performing the fame routine
daily as in its tour •ftom Philadelphia.
Feb. 2. eotf-
SWAN N'S
Riding School, Horse Academy isf Infirmary,
Adjoining the Puhlic Squire, Market Sticct.
T. SWANN
RETURNS his fiucere thanks tothofe gentlemen by whom
he has been employed, during his residence in this City, and
flattershimfelf that the success of his efforts, in the numerous,
obstinate and dangerous diseases in Horses, in which he has
been consulted, together with his moderate charges, will fe?
ure their future favors and recommendation.
He now begs leave to inform them and the public at large
that his spacious and commodious premises, ere&ed for the
purposes above de-scribe"d are ©pea for the reception of pupils
of either sex, who wifhto beinftrudted in the Art of Riding*,
and the right method of governing their horses, so as to ride
them w.ith ease, elegance, and lafety—their horses will be
carefully and expeditioufiy broHe, for every purpose, and
made obedient tot he will of the riders ; the natural powers
which are shut up in them, will be unfolded by art, calling
foxth uniformity of motion, and giving to that noble animal
all tho(c beauties of a&ion which providence has so bounti
fully bellowed on them. \
Also, at his hospital, every diforrler to which horde is
liable will be treated according to the rules of art, confirmed
by l®ng and repeated experience.
The utility of the above inftitutioa has never
ed, that it has long been wanted in this city, every gentleman's
stud will manifell, and T. Swann as thefirll eftablifher of
the veterenary art,' solicits a*id relies upon the fuppoit of that
public (which he is ever anxious in serving) to enable him to
bring it to perfection. The idea of a fubfeription for vhat
purpose has beeu hinted by several gentleman, wha wish to
promote the inilitution—the amount of each fublcription to
be retarded by services in any of thfe departments, he profefles,
aprecable to the rate of charges stated in his hand bill. Such
flibfcriptiori is now open, and the signatures ps many refpe&-
able gentlemen already obtained. He therefore informs his
friends ana luch Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has not
the honor of being known, that he lhal! in a few days take
the liberty of waiting upon them atid (clicking their support
and prot?£Hon.
N B. Horses are properly prepared for thole Ladies&nd
Gendemenwho wish to be inftrutted.
Nov. 5; tth&f.
James M'Alpin, Taylor,
No. 3, South FourthJlrcety
grateful acknowledgments to his
Friends the Public for their liberal encouragement,
and begs leave to solicit a continuance of their favors.
He has on hand an extensive assortment of the
Mod Fajhionable GOODS,
And of the best quality, suitable for the season.
At this shop Gentlemen can be furniihed withtke best
materials, and have them made up in the neatest and most j
Faftiionable manner, and an the /hortcft notice. He will
thankfully receive any orders, and paj"« prompt and '
punctual attention; to them. (
November 10. wi
Bank of Pennfylvanra, !
January 4,1797. j
At a meeting of the Directors tb ; s day, a dividend of
lixteen dollars on each (hare was declared f«r the last j
6 months, which will be paid to the Stockholders as- |
ter the 14th inft. ,
JONATHAN SMITH, Cashier.
• Jan. 3. dtf. t
Samuel RicharDet \
RESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen t
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CiTY I
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEE HOUSE in the c
city of Philadelphia: , f'
The Subftription R«om will be furnifhed with all the
daily papers published in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos- f
ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principal eorr- a
mercial citi«s of Europe —Tbey will be rsgularly filed c
and none permitted to be taken awuy on any account. »
Tea, CoSee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
of French Liquors; together with the uftrel refrefbments, : >
■will at all times be procured at the bar. o
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with "
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the most
approved Malt Liquors fronsLondon and otlicr breweries.
The Larder will be supplied with the prime and earKeft
productions of the Season.
Large and small Parties, or fingleGentlemen, may be
accommodated with Bre&kfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hours most convenient to tbemfelves—a cold Collation is ''
tegalarly kspt for convenient', the Bill of Fare to be had
at tho bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifted, and _
the utmoil attention paid to cfeaolinefs, and every other
rrnuifite. ,
gy Samuei. RrcHARDiT will be happy to receive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
Jarge; and with gratitude for their favours, tie pledges -
himl'elf that nothing on his part thall be wanting to. pre
fer vc that patronage wtth which he hasbeen so diftinguilh- 8
iugly i'lonored. -■
Philadelphia, Apcillj. mwf
A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRS F & 2d proof,
Gin, of 4th proftf, in pipes
Jftrnaiea Spirits, 4th praof, in Hhds
Old Hock, in cases of 40 dozen each
Glass Tumblers, in pints and half-pint*
Window Glass, in boxes, of different sizes
r Hazlenuts, in sacks
. Whiting
1 a >
White Lead t
r Ic Spanish Brown y
s Far Sale by PETER BLIGHT.
Jin»aryj4 < $
i Second Ball.
' New Cstilioas, Scotch Reels, Cantre Dances and a
new Quadrille.
! "ft * ESS- FRANCIS & BYRNE beg leave to inform
l' JVI their scholars, friends and the public in general,
that their fecorid tiall for this fr'afon wilt be on fuefday
the 7th of February, at O'filiers's Affembly-Room,—
and in addition to their new Cr.tilions aaSjßeek, will
1 be introduced art entire new QUADRILLE, compof
-1 ed by Mr. Byrnt.
1 Mcif. Fraacis ar.d Byrne propsfe to give gratuitous at
-1 tendance at thejr Schoal-Roum, for the inilruflion of
; those ladies and gentlemen in their new dances, who mean
tb honar tke ball-room with their presence
■ for this purpGfe after their school haurs, on Taefdays and
Thirfdays.
Tickets to be had ef Mess. Francis and Byrne, No. 70
I north Eighth-street ar at O'Ellers's Hotel. Ladies are
rcqnefted tasapply tp their female friends, feholars o£ Mess.
F. & K. ar «s above, at their residence.
i N. B. The lev dances will not infringe upan the usual
1 roatine ef she evening.
Thadaysaf teaching, for their yaiing pipils, are Thurs
days and Saturdays, from three o'clock in the afternoon,
'till fix—and on Tuesdays and Thursdays, from fax 'till
- nine, far thafe of a more advanced age.
%* Private Tuition as usual.
January 28 , saw
For Sale
By private contract, a very valutHe EJlate, known by
the name ef
C HaTHAM,
MOST delightfully situated on the north bank of Rap
pahanock river, opposite the town as Frederickfbufg, in
the state of Tirginia, coaGfting of eleven or Bfteen hun
dred acres, is may best fait the putchafer. There is on
this eilatc, a large and well built brick koufe, containng
nine commodious rooms, exclusive of a spacious hall or en
try, 22 feet square, two pair of flairs, suitable and conven
ient pa.Tages, and excellent dry cellars. It is placed on a
fine healthy emintnee, commanding beattiful views in
every direction over the towns of Frederickfburgh and
Falmouth, aad an extensive cultivated country. —The
gronnds adjoining the houfc are neatly laid out in pleas
ure ind kitchen gardens inttrfperfed with a variety of
scarce trees, a choice collection of flowers and flowering
flii'ubs, and enriched by various forts of the following
fruits, viz apples, pears, walnats, chclcuts, eherries, peach
es, plumbs, ne&arines, apricots, grapes, figs, ralberries,
gooseberries, ftrawbcrries,and currants; the whale admi
rably varied by turfed slopes which have been formed by
great labour and expence. Bordering upon these im
provements, are l'everal lots, in a high state of cultivation,
and well set with red claver and orchard grass, from
which three heavy crops of hay are taken-every year. Ad
jacent thereta are two large and flouri&ing orchards; one
ef wall chosen peach trees, the other of apple and pear,
tree?, feleAedfrom the belt nurseries in the state. Pro
perly detached from the aaaafioa house are extensive
roemy oSces of every denomination, viz a Kitchen and
Larder, house-keeper's room aad Laundry, withn eellwr
underneath for a variety of pnrpofes, a ftore-1 oufe and
smoke houfc all of brick, a dairy and spring house ef stone.
Stables for thirty harfes, and coach houses for four car
riages. Also a large and well planned farm yard, u ith
harn and granary, a cow heufe, with separate stalls for
thirty-fix grown cattle; apartments for fattening veals,
mutten-. aad lambs; extensive shads for sheep, and other
arrangements for stock of every defcriptkm, with a large
and convenimtreceptable for provender, froan which they
can be furiilhed without being exposed to the inclemency
of the weather. An overseer's house, blacksmith's shop,
ind quarters fuflrcient to accommodate in the bejt man
ner more than fifty labourers!
The arable lands are f® advantageaufly divided as to af
ford an epportunity of making a large quantity as Indian
corn annually, witheut bringing the field into similar cul
ture oftner than once in four years; cenfequently the
lands may be improved by kecplig up the inclofures during
.the intermediate years, or may be beneficially falle wed for
wheat aad other graia at the option of the proprietor.
Om the prcmifes there is also a merchant mill with one
pair of best French burr stones, and oae pair of Colegne;
furniflied with modern machinery, and now leafed for the
unexpired term oi four years, at rjol per annum, and all
grain for the use of the farm, hopper free, which is near
ly iool. more. The mill and miller's hojife are built of
free ftoae, within a very faaall distance of navigation, near
to Which are two or more valuable liflieries, and a well ,
accustomed ferry over the Rappahannock so the town of
Frederickfburg. The land con tains inexhaul'tibli quarries
of free f tane near to the river, is plentifully supplied with
remarkable Sne \vater and possesses a due proportion of
meadow, which by having the command of water may
be aonfiderably increased. The roads are good, and the
neighbourhood geuteel and foeiable. In fadt, exclusive of f
an improveable and well conditioned farm, the value and 1
emolument inseparably connected witn a mill, ferries, i
fifceries and quarries eligibly fltuated ; the profits arising C
from an ice-house interior to none ia the state, and a gar
den of four acres so abundantly ftoeked with vegetables J
of all forts as f.erbe fully equal to the demand in market, ~
there might be detailed many other advantages, apper ;
taiaing to the fertility of these lands, which the subscriber
ceaceives it uaaeceffa'ry to meation, being fully convinced
that when examined, it will be found to be a complete, a
pleafaat aad healthy refideace, peffefing beauties and' ;
, conveniences fuflficient to attract the attention of say per- a
son delireus of becomiag a purchaser.
The motive which induces the subscriber ta offer for
Tale an eftatefo Angularly beautiful and advantageous, is j
a desire to become an inhabitant of Alexandria, where he f
caa with more ease attend to his interefta in the
hoarhood of that city.
The purchaser may V accommodated with a few slaves
in families, either for plantation or doraeftiq use. A part
of the purchafc money will be repaired and tne balance
made easy, the debt being properly fccured.
, WILLIAM FITZHUGH. r
■€hataam, (Virg.) Bee. 19, 1796. nth —iaw'jm.
S A L T P ETlii; *
A large quantity of Dout>le-Refinei Salt Pcu-e for b
lale at No. 25, S«uth Third-street. t
November 5. x t
CAREY S? 1
RESPECTFULLY inform the Public, that in-dom- e
plianee with the wifties of their friends, thev a
have determined to publifb the firft number as C
The DAILY ADVERTISER, - I
On 1 uefday next, the 7th of February inft.
Subscriptions arid advertifeiacats are received at No f
83, North Secand-Kreet, and Ke. 3 out! , Fronl- t;
iircet.
February 4, 1797.
■ L
For Sale,
By George Defchamps, No. 91,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels
and half barrels
Ditto Herring and Mackarel.
Smoaked Herring in barrels and kegs
Ditto Salmon, by the dozen or fingte one
Dry Codfifii, from one t*o fifty keotal6
Fine and coarse Salt _ _
Nova-Scotia and iFrench Plaster of Paris, in the stone
and ground, for manure and stucco-work
December I V tf
Elegafnt Braffels & Turkey Carpeting,
•For falc by George Dobfon, No. aj,South Third-street.
a i)eeeuiber 15. dtf
' CAMIL L A,
1 Or A Picture of Youth.
By the authoress of Evelina and Cecilia, to be csrft
prifed in five volumes, at half a dollar ejeh, payable
" on delivery—Printed at New-York, by Mr. John
•Bull.
;. CONDITIONS.
I. Handsome, Heat type, perfectly new, is em
ployed.
j 11. A volume, stitched ia blbe paper, is intended
to be publilhed every 2 weeks, till the five are com
j pleted; the firft and second are came to hand, and the
. third is hourly expeiled. Subscriptions are received,
and B6oks may be had of J. OKMROD> No. 41,
Chefnut-ftreev
Mrs. D'Arblay (late Miss Burney) the celebrated
■ authoress of this inimitable work, needs no eulogy
> to add to the laurels Ihe has already acquired in the
I literary world. The ltrength of imagination and ele
ganee of style, displayed in Evelina and Cecilia, will-
Efficiently recommend to every reader of taste and
judgment, the perusal of Camilla.
It may not be improper to add, tlrat the Queen of
England, after having perused this interelling publi
cation, prefeikted Mrs. D'Arblay with a thousand
pounds flerling, as a teftimany of bar approbation-os
the work.
Jaauorv 2; eotf
Houses and Lots for falc,
BY the Subscriber, in the town of West-Chester, Ches
ter county, 25 miles from Philadelphia, on the great
state-road, leading Westward' Viz. No. I. A twd-ftory
Stone House, the cornsrof High and Gay streets, 4© feet
from by 34 feet deep, including a very convenient iloro
houfe : the House contains ten well finiflied raoms, a kit
chen and entry : the Lot is 144 feet front on Gay-street,
—equal to any stand in West-Chester. N».i. A two-sto
ry stone house adjoining, 47 feet front, containing eleven
well-finilhed rooms, both being ceiled in the garrets, house
and lot fame depth as the other, a kitchen, &c.—aellars
under both borises, with good stables on the lots. These
Houses ire almost new, done by good workmen, in a
masterly manner. No. 3. a Let 42 feet front. No. 4,
34 feet. No- 5, 44 feet. No. 6, 119 feet, all of them
ten reds deep. On two of the above are erected three log
and frame houses, two stories high, cellars under the
whole, and a small flable to each-
The aba ve Lots are situated near the Court-Houfe. The
fclole will be exposed to PUBLIC SALE, on the 21ft and
2id days of February next, at two o'clock, when the con
ditions will be made known Poffeflion may be had the
firft of April next. TheTitleisindifputable.
JOHN KINNARD.
January 28 ,
■ —• —fiy Atirhurliy. -
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64,
Stuth Second-Jtreet. '
SCHEME of I LOTTERY,
For raifmg Sixty Thousand Dollars, agreeably to an Aft of '
the Legislature ol Pennfyivaaia, pal Ted during the lalt '
-session, for building a Stone Bridge over the River 1
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, ia the County of 1
Berks. Dollars, i
» Prize of 20.00 a Dollars . 20,000 t
1 do. of ic,ooo,do. . . 10,000
3 do - of s'°°° - - . 15,000
4 do. of 2,00® do. - . 8,000 e
20 do. of 1,000 do. - . 20,000
39 do- of s°° do - - - 19,500 1
80 do. of 200 do. - - . j6,000 e
soo do. of 100 do. . 2 0,000 a
300 do. of 50 do. - 1<)00 o ii
1 do. of db. to be paid the poflcf- > p
for f the firft drawn do. J 6 00 j,
5 do. of 3,e«0 do. to be paid poflefTofs > f
of the five lad drawn nos v I 5» 0OG) ~
$,4»o do. o 15 do* ; . 141,000 b
,o *®s4 Prizes 306,ce0 _
19,946 Blanks
11
30,000 Ticket* at Ten Dollars 300,0©© b
All Prizes (hall be paid fifteen days after the drawing is t<
hnilhed, upon the demand of a poffeflor of a fortunate o
iiclcet, fubjeft to a deduction of twenty per cent. The
Drawing will commence as foontas the Tickets are disposed
of, or perhaps sooner. of which public notice will be given.
k Philip Miller, Peter Kcrjhner, William Wit man, t 'i
yofeph Hiejlet, James Diemer, l)utidas>
James May, John Otto, John'Keim, Daniel Creej, p
Sebajlian Miller, Commissioners.
Reading, May the 9th, 1795. g
Tickets ia the Canal Lattery, No. 2,,'t0 be had at the p
above offieft, where the earliest integration of the draw, rr
ing of the Walhingtoh No. 2, and PattCrfon Lottery's, fl
are received, and cieck books for examination and regif H
tering are kept'. 0
Tickets in the above Lottery te be bad at Mr, Sheri- t l
dan s Racc-ftreet, John Hay, North-Third-ftrect and f,
Henry Swoyer's, German Town.
2awtf
Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64, South Second stkest.
T ! ™' S ln Cana l Lottery, No. a, for sale—a ai
t-W late I<>r esaraination — and P riz « paid ia r ,
Check Books kept for examination ami registering, for r
the City of Waftmgton, No. 2, iad Pattelon Lotteries, v
° C !* \ re now drawing—information where \
ticw' " e A° ', and P rizea for undrawn v
Pn f r ,in rap Cte of iU ths P rizes iD >"e New- £
examination lottery, for
an ] u , ( r U i b l C H iber i the a PP licat,or ' public A
Certified n'u W r * , ™ P urchase or iell Bank Stock,
&c or n Kcha "S e or Notes, Houses, Lands, _
&c. or to obtaid money on de P osit of property. -
sale *at tlmi n Sc ' H "y !kiU Bridge Lottery f«-
the Sprint? e3ch ' whieh wiU be d '° wn early in F
ph i ,11 l* T Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, January 26. 17y;.
This Day is Published,
Br 810 RE A' and MA DAN,
And to be Sold at their Printing-Office, in Dock,-
S n't! N y s**7' N °- Market-street ;
=> Thomas Bradford, No. 8, South Front-street ia i
George Douglafs, No. 2 , South Third-street,
(Price, neatly bound* two dollars J
AN ENQUIRY
Concerning Political Jvsticz,
And its Influence on Morals and Happiaefs,
c By, William Gobwin.
THE reputation of this work is already well efta
. blilhed in Europe—lt is hardly necefTary for an Ame
rican editor to fay more than barely to mention, that
'' th c Enqniry concerning Political Justice has' ever
t- since its publication been a favorite performance with
the friends of republican government. The llile is
- pure, nervous, and classical ; the ideas are ftrongl*
marked by an original vein of thinking ; and, amoa'gft
a multitude of other jtift and ftrikiug passages, the
author's delineation of the peculiar infelicities iufepa
" rable from the condition of a King, may be pointed
e out as a moll masterly specimen of philosophical dif
u quifition. The latest London edition of this work
fells in this city at four dollars and an half.
January 24 djtawzw
i Clocks and Watches.
Leslie and price,
"No. 79, Market-street, Philadelphia,
' HAVE IMPORTED, by the late arrivals fnxa
' London, a large aflortment of tVARRANT E B
WA l CHE S, consisting of horizontal, eapp'd a*d
. jewel'fl Gold Watches, with fecoads, of fupariar
* workmanfliip and elegance ; also eapp'd and jewel'd '
and plain Gold Watshes ; eapp'd & jewell'd, eapp'd,
' seconds, day ef the mouth, and plain Silver Watches ;
i eight day & chamber Clocks.; elegant Freneh Clocks'
j with marble frames ; eight day and thirty ho«r, brass
works, -ice* ,
. Decembers, '1796. dim
A Manufa&ory FOR SALE.
1 A valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufaflory, fituMse
ij» aconvcnijsLjiart ol the.fitv : the work, almost new,
on an entirely origioal conttiudtion, and builiofthe heft
materials, and may be set to -work immediately. Perfoni
■ who with to purchase, ate requested to apply a t tyo 37,
South Second Street. September 13. t t f tt
Gazette.
Proposals by WILLIAM COBBETT, oppofiteChrift
Church, Philadelphia, for.publifhing a news-paper,
to be entitled
Porcupine's Gazette, & 'Daily Advertiser.
Methinks 1 hear the reader exclaim ; What! have
we not Gazettes enough already i" Yes, and far to*
many : but those that we have, are, in general, con
duAedin such a manner that their great 'number, in-
Head of rendering mine jUnneceflary, ii the only cause
that calls for its eftablifliment.
I he gazettes in this country have done it mare real in
jury than all its open enemies ever did or can do. They
mislead the people at home 'and misrepresent them a
broad. It was these vehicles of sedition and discord
that encouraged the counties in the Weft to rebel ; it
was they that gave rife to the depredations of Britain,
by exciting the people to such a<fts of violence againit
that nation, as left no roem to doubt that we were ( de* i
termiiaed on war ; and it was they, when an accom
modation had been happily effected, that'ftirred up art
opposition to it such as has seldom been witnefled, and
which was overcome by mere chance. These gazettes
" 11 Y' lllaL ' '"ilUpieiemiliig Hie iJll'p®fttiuirs-oT-rin:
people, encouraged the French to proceed from one
degree of insolence to another, "''till at last their Minis
ter bi ares the President in his ehair, aatd a bullying
commander conies and tells us that his only 'business is
to leize our vessels, in violation of a treaty, in virtue
ot which alone he claims a right to enter our ports : and
it is these gazettes that nowhaYe'the impudence to de»
fenu what their falfehood and malice have produced.
_ I shall be told that the "peopW are to blame; that
tney are not obliged to read these abominabfc publica
tions. But they do read them ; and thousands who
read them, read nothing else. To suppress them is Im
pofiible; they will vomit forth'fhcir poison ; it is a pri
vilege of their natures, that no law ®an abridge; and
therefore the only mode left is, to countered its effeflj.
This must be done, too, in theirownferay. Books,
or periodical publications in the form of books, •*" J
be of some service, blit are by no means i match for
their flying folios. A. falfebood that remains uneontra
t-nSed for a month, begins to bfc looked upon as a truth,
and when the detection at last makes its appearance, it
is often as nfelefs as that of the do<sVor who finds his
patient expired. The only method of Cppqfltion, then,
is to meet them on their own grouiid ; to set foot to
foot ; dispute every i&eh and every hair's breadth;
fight them at their own weapons, a»d return them two
blows fbr one-
A gazette of this stamp is whall Tiive long wilhed to
fee, but I have willed and expected it hi vain. Indig
nation at the fnpinenefs of others has at last got the
better of all diffidence in my owntapacity, andhasdc
termined me to eneounterthe talk. People have heard
one fide long enough 5 they fliall bow hear the other.
CONDITIONS. '
x. Porcupine's Gazette fliall be of the usual size,
and the fubfeription Eight Dollars a year, to be paid at .
the expiration ef eash half year.
2. Advertisements will be inserted at half the ofual
price, which will always be required in ready money.
3- The Censor, containing those pieces from the
gazette that may appear worth preserving in a more
portable form, with such amplifications and amend
ments as time may give rif? to, fliall be published
monthly, and each fubferiber Ihall be entitled to a eopy»
delivered with his paper at the end of the month,
4. If a fuffkient number of fubferibers be obtained
the firft number of the Gazette fliall appear on, or be
fore the sth of March.
N. B. A fubfeription book is bow open at my shop,
opposite Christ-church, whither gentleman in the coun
try, who wifli to fubferibe, are requelled to fend their
names.
Subscriptions are taken at Boston by Mr. James White,
beokfeller ; at Salem, by Mr. Debeny, post-master ;
at New-Haven by Mn Beers, bookseller ; at Newbu
ry.port, byMr.fi. Blnnt, bookseller; at We-v-York,
by Mr. S. Campbell, bookseller ; at Baltimore, by Mr.
G. Hill, bookseller; at Chester-town, Maryland, by
Mr. James Arthur, poft-mafler; at Eaftcn, do. by
Mr. Gveenbury Neal; at Frederick-town, do. by
Meflrs. Isaac and John Mcrttz; at Richmond, Virg.
by Meflrs. Pritchard and Bavidfon; at Norfolk, by
Meflrs. Rainbow and Hannah; and at Charleston, by
Mr. Young, bookseller.
Jan. i%. ooiot.
■ ■ ■■■ 1' IMI ■IH..LULI——— "■— ■ '
PRINTED BY JOHN FEN NOj
—No. 119-—
C H E 5 N U T-S T R E E T.
' fPritc Eight Dolfam per Anoum.)
.' \ ' -• *V {