of the & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Nvmiiea 1467-]
For London,
iTlftiJwryj TM P eu ip
tfjl'gl WILLIAM PENN,
~JAMM 'Josiah, Majler.
WILL fail with all convenient spied. For
lreight or passage apply to
JeJJe & Robert Wain.
of Goods in the ship William
re;.n, arc requdied to fencf their permits on board
*s Toon as possible.
May 19 §
— _rw— — Tr '
For Charter,
'Silk /Erial,
John T.txxif, Majler,
NOW lying- »t Albertfon's wharf, South
wark-*-burtben 3300 barrels, in compleat
order to take irt a targo.
For terms apply to
"* Gurncy & Smith.
May 15 $
Unit:J Stain, }
Pennsylvania DiJlrifl,y' J
Notice is hereby given,
TH iT iB pursuance ol a writ to m« dire&ed
from the honorable Richard Pf.ters, Esq.
Judge of the DiftriS Court of the United States
in and for the Pennsylvania Diftrifl, will be e»
posed to sale at the merchants' coffee-hcufe in this
city, on the 17th day.of this infunt, May, at l J
o'clock at noon,
The Schooner or Vejfel called
THE BETSEY,
With all and singular her tac-
Ttel, uppai el and furniture (whereof a»inventory
may be seen at my office) the fame l een
libelled againfc and condemned in th« said DiftriA
Court, forth* payment of mariner'e wages, &e.
William Nichols, Marshal.
marshal's office,") ~
17th May, 1797. I
1 - - ' 1 ' - ' r,
For Madeira,
Edward,
fames H ickkam, Majler.
WILL fail in about Eight days, having
three-fourths of her cargo engaged. For
freight or passage, apply to the captain on
board, at Stamper's wharf, or the Pubfcriber.
John Donnaldfon.
May 11. sß'
N B. The Edward is intended to return di
rest to this port, and will take in freight at
Madeira.
- For. sale,
J JSKaK** 11" f'lft filing Schooner
r:~?£*r%3r_ White-oak frame— hnilt in the
state of Virginia in the year 1796 —j7 feet 3
inches keel, 17 feet 10 inches beam, 8 feet 3
inches hold—burthen 90 tons—is said to carry
6eo barrels-'completely fitted and ready to re
cti vea cargo : For further particulars enquire of
Rofs and Sirafon, No. 111, South Front-ftretf.
April 3 $
For St. Croix,
7"" fail in eight days, '
THE BRIG
Twins,
Matthew Keeler, Master,
For passage apply to
James lard,
on Walnut-ftieet wharf-
May 6. f
. L.—
j —For Baltimore,
The Ship
J Harriot,
J ' thomas Mooßi, Commander;
A fiue faft failing ship. and « s to fail the
lift in ft. Freight will be taken vtry lovr, if im
mediately applied for, to the captain on board at
Willcox's wharf, or to
Peter Kuhti.
N. B. The confignfes of goods on board the a
bove ship from HamUirg, will please to be expe
ditious in delivering their permits, as file is now
cufcharging.
May 17. d4t
TO BE SOLD,
And pofleflion given immediately,
A Lot of Land - r
SITUATED in Mount-Holly, in t'ne'eounty
of Builington, in New-Jersey, lately occa
j>ied by Francis Bullus, Esquire, upon which ara
an excellent brick house, two ftorie3 Hi-h, with
four convenient rooms on each floor, also a good
ftible, carriage house and other buildings. Ihe
£tuation ii valuable forbufinefs of any kind, and
at least equal to any other in the town.
The terms of payment will be nrade eafv to
the purchaser. Apply to William Uofiell, L.q.
u ire, John Perrv, or Richard Coxe, merchants,
in Mount-Holly, or to the Suhfcriber, in the city
of Burlington.
JOSEPH
Burlington, sjthApril May 5
TO BE SOLD,
The time of a My NEGRO BOT,
Thirteen years of age, and has about fourteen
years to fcrve. Enquire at thcoffic® of thi* ga
zette.
April 27* - ?
Jufl Imported',
TN the (hip Woodrop Sims, Capt. Hodgfon,
1 from Canton, and for sale by the Subfcrib
f, at Mrs. Kinfey's, corner of Second and
Pine-street,
Ilvlorf
Hyson Tikin all Irefh anil cf
Young Hyson and f excellent quality.
Gunpowder ) '
Alio, ,
A few Nankeens.
C.HAJGWT.
April 17 dlf
PHILADELPHIA: MONDAY EVENING, MAT 22, 1797.
SALES BY AUCTION.
Slated Sales
Far Dli T GOODS.
( Forenoon—Edward Fox, No. j6,
u , j south Front-street,
A'fternobn—Footmau & Co. No. 6j
(_ South Front-street.
Forenoon—John Connelly, Old City
r , Auflion, No. 73 south l'ront-ftreet.
ternoon —William Shaunon, No.
(_ 183 High-street.
„ r , C Afternoon —Peter rtcofon, No. 74
ednefday | Third-flrcet.
r , ( Forenoon—Edward Fox.
J' V ( Afternoon—John Connelly.
„ . . \ Forenoon —William Shannon.
5 Afternoon —John Conjieliy.
Saturday Af ,ernoon —Peter Bei-.fon.
Valuable Lands, Mills,
See. in Georgia.
On Saturdvy, the first day cf July
next, at 7 o]clixk in the evening, at the Cof
fee-houfe in Philadelphia, will, be fold by
auAion, for a liberal credit, the followiag
estates — , (
In the State oT Georgia.
No- f.
ACBUTAIN TRACT OF I.AND, com
taining t00,697 i-J acres, fitnate in the
county of Montgomery, formerly the county of
Walhington', on the east fide of Ohoory river,
and the waters of the Altamaha, and about oiie
mile above the mouth of Pendleton's creek, and
in the neighbourhood of Mill creek. The im
provements on this trail of land, \onfifling df
the moftcomplete Orift and Saw Mii lS in the
southern country, having-coft at least 20,000
dollars within these two years. The timber is
of the fined quality, and the quantity is not to
be exbaufted.
1.
A tr4<sl of very valuable land in Franklin
county, lying on the waters of Oconee, con
taining about 75,000 acres.
3- .
A trail adjoining Or near to No. 2, contain
ing about 25,000 acres.
4.
Two millions and five hundred thousand aeres 1
of land, being an vndivided part of all that
trail of valuable country, including islands, si
tuated on the Mobile Bay, Albahama, Tom
Bigby, and Miffifippi Rivers, which was grant
ed by the State of Georgia to James Gunn, and
others, by the name of " The Georgia Compa
ny", in fee.
J-
Thirty (hares in the Tenr.eflee Company,
each (hare being about 10,000 acres, or one four
hundredth and twentieth part of the said Teil
neflee Company's purchase, being so much of
the trail of country, granted by the State of
Georgia to Matthias Maher and 'Zachariah Cox,
in fee.
This piece of property may, in the op
tion of the purchaser, or his afligns, be offered
to Zachariah Cox, forthefum of 175,000 dol
lars, in two years from the 21ft March i i 96,
who is obliged by his special bondt to take the
fame, if offered to him, at that time, and pay
for the fame, within fix months after the expir
ation of the said two year*. This bond is fold
wit!) tne land.
By order of
Henry Pratt, ~
I Mgneesof
Jacob Baker,
ILaivard Fox, Auctioneer.
May 15 rnwftS
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
At the Merchants' Coffee house, in Philadelphia,
on the 15th day of June, at 8 o'clock ill the
evening, ii not before disposed of at private
sale,
40,931 1-2 acres of land, on the
waters of Wheeling and Filhing creeks, in Walh
ington county, Pennsylvania. The foil is .remark
ably fertile ; andbefides a large body of meadow,
there are conflderable improvements on the pre
mifes. These land/ were patented in 1787. On
payment of part of the purchase money, a riafon
&bl<a credit will be given for the relidue. Enquire
of the printer.
May 15. ___.
To be fold at private sale,
A TWO (lory dwelling house and lot of ground
in the city of Burlington, date of New-Jcr
fey, in a healthy and pleasant situation. The
house is of brick, containing four good sized rooms,
with a convenient kitclien and cellar, she lot,
on which is a stable, &c. contains about an acre of
land of the bid quality, with a front fufiicient to
admit two ot three large honfes, independent of
that part at present occupied by the house.
For fuither particulars enquire of Joseph M'll
vaine, Esq. in Burlington, or Joseph Reed, No.
214, High-street, Philadelphia.
May 12- coow__
Notice.
AGREEABLY to charter, is hereby given
to the membeis of " The Corporation
for the rf.ief of poor and diftrefled Prelbyterian
Miniflers, and of the poor and diftredtd widows
and children of Prelbyterian Ministers," that
a meering of said corporation will be holden
in the fecoiidPrefovterian church in the city of
Philadelphia, on the 13d inflant, at 4 o'clock,
P M. for the dispatch ot ail such bulinefs as
mav then be brought before the Board.
ASHBEI, GREEN,
Sec'ry of the Corporatiou.
May I. $
Rofs & Simfoh,
Have fur Sate,
A QUANTITY OF PRIME
St. Domingo Cotton,
Superior Old Lilbon Wine in Pipes
Excellent India Market
Teneriffe Wine,
In Madeira Cafi;s
A few Quarter Chefla best
Fresh Hyson and ) TEAS
Hyson Skin j
Muscovado Sugars in Hogfbeads, and
1 Codec in Tierces
March 7. II
By John Fenno, N° ii 9 Cbefnut Sfreet
Millinery Room,
No. 136 Market Jlreet.
MISS CHJtrSTAL
TAKES an early opportunity of acquainting
her Friends that lhe has received by the
William Penn, a variety of NEW MIiL
LINERY, See. which (he hopes to be able to
(hew them in a few days. .
May 18 * s3ot
A Quantity of Brandy,
Gin, of 4th proof, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhdi
Old' Hock, in cases of 40 dozen c ach
Glass Tumblers, in pints and haif-pints
Window Glass, in boxes, of different lizes
Hazlenuts, infacks
Whiring
Copiieras ( . ...
White Lead ( m hhd '
& ?panifli JJrown J '
For Sale by
PETER BLIGHT.
January 4 }.
J : _________________
Now Landing,
At Pratt's wharf,
FROM 01) board the (hip Thomas Chiikley,
Capt. Rafer, from Uooraeaux,
CLARET in ca(ks
Ditto in cases
White Wine Vinegar
Ked Skins in boxes
• For Sale by
RiindJe W 3 Leech.
May 1; j[_
Important Public Document.
rnrs day is published.
And for Sale
At the 'Ofeceof the Editor ofthe Gazette of the
United States,
No 119 Chefnut-Street,
[price one bollar and fjftt cents]
a few Copies of the
Receipts and Expenditures
OF THE UNITED STATES,
For the Year 1795,
Being the Latest Period to which an account
can be made up.
February»2. §.
Erfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No. 40 Soulh Second flreet,
[PHce 31 Cents] ;
A View of the Causes and Confequen- [
ces of the present War with France. ,
By the Honorable Thomaj
May 1 s f
to be Sold,
A three flory brick House, with suitable back
buildings ;
SITUATE in Vine-flreet, No. 88, completely
finifhed, and Tree of gronnd-rent: it has a
neat back yard, in which is a cillcrn. and new
pump lor rain water—commodious cellws are un
derneath the whole, in which is a dry well bricked
up, that will hold ice. This property is well cal
culated for a boarding house. For particulars ap
ply at the premises.
Immediate polTcffiat will be given, ®r so 3$ to
suit a purchaser.
may 15. 3awtf
TO BE SOLD,
A valuable three flory Brick Hsufe ;
SITUATE in Lodge alley, next to the bank of
Pennsylvania, the lot on which it Hands, to
gether with ttie vacant lot adjoining, which ex
tends to Goforth-ftreer. The house is about 50
feet in front on Lodgf alley, and abotit 42 feet
in depth, the adjoining lot is about 96 feet
front on Lodge alley, and 41 feet on Gofocth
ftreet, being a street which leads from Chefnut
ftreet and Carter's alley into Dock-llrert at the
ltorfe market. The houle conlifts of ten lodg
ing rooms, with fix fire places, two dininj
rooms, one of them forty feet in length, the
other abbut thirty-four feet, each containing
two (ire places, two parlours and a large kit
chen, with exrenlive cellars under, and garrets
over the whole, a privilege of a vacant lot
of ground to the eaitward between this house
and the bank, a pump of excellent water in the
yard, a handsome piazza fronting the vacant
lot, and a frame (lable and dwelling house on
Goforth-ftreet. The premises now rent for
£.318 per annum. To be fold clear of a'l in
cumbrances.
For terms apply to John Clement Stocker.
April 10 3awtf
To be rented,
And*Ptff'JfioH given immediately,
A large, commodious Stone
Dwelling-House,
ST aBLF. , Coach-H«ul'e and Garden, fituatc at
the lower end of Germantown, about five
and a half milts from the City.
Apply to
JOSEPH SHOEMAKER,
No. 130 North Second-Jlreet.
May 18 4
To be fold cheap,
To close an adventure,
7 Balcf Baftas
2 ditto Coffis
Apply at th# Store of
Mordecai Lewis.
May if, eoaw
Philadelphia and Lancaster i urn
pike Company.
■A meeting of the Stockholders of the Phila
delphia and Lancaster Turnpike Company, will
be he'.d at the Company's Office, o;i Monday,
! 10 o'clock, the lathjune next.
WILLIAM GOVETT, Sec'ry.
May It. * r
Landing,
From the Jchoaner Swallow, Doane, thajtcr,
from Gonuivfs, at Clifford's wharf,
340 Bags COFFEE,
Fo.r Sale by
John Clark.
No- 55 north Water-flrcef.
May 18 J $
Pennsylvania Population Com
pany.
NOTICE is given to the Sharehold
ers, that a further aiTcflinent ol fifteen
dollnrs is levied on each (hare, payable in the
following inflalfflents—viz.
One quarter irfirtiediately.
One quarter on the ifl of June.
One quarter ou the jft September.
One quarter on the ill Dec. next.
Which'they asS requested to pay to the Trea
surer of the Company at the CompartyV Office,
Nd. 53 north Fourth flreet, agreeably to the
times above mentiSmed ; and they are further
informed that on their neglcdling to pay the
fame as above direiled, the several forfeitures
by the Ccnftiiution, willl be exacled
By order of the Board,
SOL. MARACHE,
Treasurer.
May 1 j §im
Just received,
And for sale by Ifzac. Harvey, .3 un. No. 5, South
Water- (treet,
A parcel of prime Rice ; also,
Trinidad 2nd Cayenne Cotton
Coffee in Barrels and Bag*
Spauifh Hides and Beef.
4th mo. C 5, 1797.
Maurice Moynihan,
No. Br, North See on d Jlreet,
A few doors above Arch-street,
INFORMS his friends and the public,that he has
for vjhoiefale or retail, on the lbweft ternis, a
affortment of Queen's Ware, gilt and cut
tumblers, plain and flowered quart, pint, half pint
gill and half gill do. exa<st measures, decanters and
wine glasses ; gallon, half gallon, quart and pint
bowlfl, and china in flit's and separate ; pocket
bottles : Schayikill and Jersey country qfcart and
half gallon bottles; Dry Goods, &c. See.
N. B. Crates put up with care at the ihorteil no
tice.
May 11. dtf
The Commiflioners
FOR carrying inte cSeA the TWENTY-FIRST
Article of the Treaty of Friendlhip, Limits,
and Navigation, between His Catholic Majeily
and the United States of America, hereby give in
formation to all Perfonj therein ooncc-rned, —That,
in order to terminate all differences, 011 account of
the leffes sustained by the Citizens of the United
States, in consequence of their Vessels and Car
goes hSving b»tn taken by the Subje&s of His Cath
olic Majesty, during the late War between Spain
and France, that they are ready to receive (at their
Ofiice, between the hours of ten and one o'clock,
daily) all complaints and applications, authorized
by the said Article, during Eighteen Months
itojn the day of the date hereof, and that they have
power to examine all such persons as tome bel'pre
them, onoath or affirmation, touching the com
plaints in question, and also to receive in evidence,
all written teftimoj'y, authenticated in such man
ner as they (hall think proper to require or admit.
By Order of the Commif/toners,
P£TER LOI-IRA,
Secretary.
Commifjioners Office, AO. 109, Mulberry
flreet, Philadelphia, Mcy l~th, 1*97.
tO —$4W
For Sate,
ON board the ship Moi.lt, John Frofit, mailer
from Liverpool, laying at Walnut-flrc** wharf
6000 bushels of line ftoved Salt,
And W.4RF., well affined,
By PHILIP NICKLIN y Co.
WHO HAVE IN STORE, ALSO FOR. SALE,
100 Boxes WhiteHavanna Sugars
Imperial and | x £ A s
Hyson i
17 tabs Qjuckfilver
2chefts liandanno Handkerchiefs
A few cbeita Maflchefter Goods well a/Torted
in corduroys, thicksets, ginghams, ro'iyinctSj
dimities, Sec. 1 Trunks black Owing fiik,
180 Crates queen 9 ware, well assorted,
10 Tons (heet lead,
Nails afibrted, Hat and (harp points,
London'particular and ) Madeira Wine in
India market j pipe s and hhds.
30 pipes, 10 hhds. TeneriCe Wine,
10 pipes choice Port ditto,
31 calks yellow paint,
7 boxes ii bundles writing dates,
1 box ink-Hands & note presses,
Sail canvas assorted N«. x a 8.
May 4. dtf
Gold and Silver Watches,
OF an excellent quality, and neat famicnable
Gold Chains, Satis a:id K-ys, Eight Day
Clocks and Time Pieces, filhionablc Steel and Gilt
Chains, &c. &c. for Sale by
JOHN J. PARRY,
Clock and Watchmaker, No. 3?. S. td street.
Clocks and Watches of all kinds carefully
repaired.
May 19. turf. & fa. jw
At O'Ellers's Hotel.
Readings and Recitatigns,
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining ;
FOR ONE WEEK ONLY.
On Monday evtHing,May 2id, at eight o'clock,
■V,'ILI BE DELIVERID.
Part 1.
Effayon Taile and Oratory
Part 11.
Othello'i address to the Senate Shakespeare
I Brutus's speech on the death of Cse.'ar do.
Anthony's Funeral r. do.
Part 111.
Satan's address to the Sun Mi'ton
Ode on St. Cecelia's Day Pope
Ode on the Pa(Tion» Collins
Tickett (half a dollar each) to he hid of Mr.
, Poulfon, at the Library, and c.i the Bai«-of
lO'iiHer's Hotel.
'1 he nights of the Readings w"'«l be on Mon
day, Wtdnefday and Friday.
JOHN CRAIG
TT AS just imparted from Rotterdam, via St.
i JL Tho mas, auJ for sale on reasonable tsriiil
by thepackage,
Platillas Royal
Haerlem and German, linens
Rouens
Post and Pro Patria Paper
Wafers
Quills
Oziers for Hoops, in Bundles
Co See Bags
He has tSfo for Sale,
Befl Red Clover Seed
Old Marierr* WHie, fit for immediate use
Teneriffe Wine of firft and feeoird Quality
Coffee in Bags and Hogflieids
Jamaica Spirits
Conrre&icvit Turpentine Soap
Window Glass
Two Trunks of fceft Patent, Silk and Cotton
• lofiery
April iS. 4»w
NOW LANDING,
From on board of the (hip GiIORGE BAR
CLAY, Capt. Charhs M'Alest**, from
Calcutta, the following GOODS, via.
Cofl'as Punjum Cloths
Hummums Gurrahs
Guieenahs India Calicoes
Emertici Cotton Checks
M*moOdi.s Mulmuls
Sahans Red and Blue EeraagCu
hkfs
Tickcrics P3tsa do.
Jolla's SantipoA do.
Carridarries Plain, (Iriped and fl#wtr
ed fine 'muQira
Maragungss Giugh^ms
Bafras, various forts Taffeties
Sa'ttm Romals Bandanno red hts.
A h S O,
3CO Cafcs Sugar
40 Boxes do.
165 Bags do.
70,000 lb. weight heavy black Pepper
40,000 lb. weight Ginger
20 Tons Hemp in Bales
9 Pipes East-India Spirits
For sale by PHILIPS, CRAMOND fcfCo.
May 4. 4tf
Received by the Indoftan,
From Madras,
A SMALL invoice confilting of the following
Coast Goods, viz.
Blue Cloths
Long Cloths, 14 punjums
Do. do. firie
Madrafs Handkerchiefs, and
Book Muslins
WILLING b 1 FRANCIS.
March 27. 3aw.
Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co.
No. 8 Chefnut-Street,
Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly assorted, very low on
ffiort credit.
M rch 6. $
Laws of the U. S.
SIVIFT's EDITION.
J ttjl Piiklijhed,
Price 6 dollars, 3 vol. nmo.
Sold by W. Young, Mills and Son, H. arid
P. Rice, M. Carey, R. Campbell and Co.
Laws of the United States,
From the commencement of the Fedet al Govern
ment to the end oj the lafl SeJJion of Con
%refs, <which terminated Much 3, 1797.
r T , HIS edition, published under an order of
X Congress of the United States, has many
peculiar advantages. In the former one, each
volume had a separate indtx, whieh rendered
the reference in all cases, difficuh and trouble
some, and in many almeft impoflible. The in
dexes were, moreover, very injudiciously com
piled. On the contrtiry, in the pfefent edition,
there is one copious, luminous indei, com
piled by Zephaniah Swift, Esq. referring to
all the volumes, and ccmprifing in itfelf a com
plete digest of all the laws of the United States.
May 3. w&s7t
Caution.,
THE PuVlic are heretly forewarned against
trulhng the step-daughter of the Subicrib
er, and hfr mother, his second wife. Repeated
mifcondinfl compels him to forbid any person to
give thein -credit on his account, as he will pay
no debts of their contracting after this date.
LUNO BROWN.
Philadelphia, May 16, 1797 18—^th3t
Venereal Complaints,
TjUNCTUAI.LY attended to in every stage of
A that disease, without the ufc of mercury or
restraint of diet, in any cafe recent and simple, on
application at No. 113, Chefnut-firect, opposite
the United States bank, or at No. 170, South Wa
ter-flrpet, between Spruce and Pine-ftaects, where,
he ha. opened an office for the better accommoda
tion of his patients.
But in Lues Venerea confirmed, Do&or Morgan
pltdgcs himfelf, th:'.t no system of cure (hpwevir
fpccious) can be effectual without mercury, ahd
that all the known rules cf pra&ice for thele tw'o
centuries pall, and united experience affirms, that
any fubftitu'.e for it is but nugatory, and zny moae
of pra&ice to the contrary mull be.futile and de
ceptions.
Neveithelefs, he undertakes, however compli
cated the cafe, to eflfeel a cure without inconve
nience or injury to the patient's corifti-ution, anid
ißtime not generally experienced «r expeiled.
N B. Regular attendance at the office in Water
ftrtvt, front the hour ol nine o'clock in the morn
ing until one, and from three o'clock i* the even
ing until seven; but o- her time at his dwelling
house, in Chefnut ftrett.
May 16. dtf
This Day is Published,
Price 15 Cents,
By JOHN OItMRO D,
NO. 41 CUESKOT-STREIT,
A Discourse,
Delivered on the lid of February, 1*97,
At the FUNERAL of
The Rev. 6ILBHRT TENNHNT SNOWDEN,
Pallor of the Prefjyteriaji Church of Cranberry,
iu the State of New-Jerfev,
By the Rrv. SAMUfiL STANHOPE SMITH
D.D. Frefi.icnt of the College of Newjerfey
March 11 #
£VOLVMK XIIS J E!< EST IMG COR k ESI'O KUENCE,
relative to ti:» AH : AIR3 or
FK ANCE andtiie UNITED STATES.
TJf foltwzving correfpondenee, mmprifing the
nvijl important of the ducuments contained in
the Prefdent's mrffage to Ccngrejs cf I Cj'.h
''January lafl, if perused with candor and
attention, mufl fatisfy every independent A
mrtc.in cf theJincere, allive and unceaftng
ejfurts of our government to maintain invio
late the rights of France. reft thing from the
duties of neutrality, the laiv of nations and
c.\ij!ing treaties, andmofl completely vindicates
our nation from ihe uyu/l 1 i'proac:;et and
complaints of th: French -Directory and its
agents.
" A g.'vernmspt which required only a know
" of the truth to jullify its menfurcs, could
" not l>ut be anxious to have this fully and Irankly
" difpluycd."
tRESIOEN T'S MESSAGE, JAN'. 19, '9?.
Mr. Haxiison > s Letter concluded.
Mr. Harrifon, Di/lricl Attorney of Xeiu-Tork,
to Mr. Pickering, Secretary cf Stale.
New-Tori, \lth December, 1796.
With refpeft to ths second prosecution,
which Mr. Adet fays, " is principally in quef
(ionthe fads are these. During the course
of the examinations in the firft cause against
the privateer, it appesred that a quantity of
arms and ammunition had aftually been ex
ported in her from the United States at a
time when such exportation was prohibited,
and though I had been led to suppose from
fame of the testimony, that th«fe had formed
a part of the privatser's equipment, yet as
this was contetted, 1 thought it-my duty to
file another libel or information, stating the
exportation as a breach of .the prohibitory
law. Mr. Adet is plezfed to fay, that •« this
information Was made upon the Ample decla
ration of Mr. Giles, marshal of the court,
who as informer was to have his part of the
confifcation." In the firft part of thisafler
tion, Mr. Adet is certainly mistaken. Th»
information was foanded upon the evidence
appearing in the other causes, not upon any
declaration made by Mr. Giles; and as Mr.
Giles was not the informer, but merely the
seizing officer, I do not know that he would
liav« been entitled to any (hare of the prop
etty if confifcated.
After the filing of the second information,
it is remarkable th it capt, Berard (who could
bed have contradifted the allegations con
tained in it, if thfy were not true) does not
appear to claim upon oath, as in the other
causes 5 but rtiia ■ tartc is devolved upon .the
French Consul, who could only speak from
information.
In the progress of the cause, however,
the exportation of cannon is denied ; the
muskets attempted at one time to be made
fowling pieces, and at another the property
of pafiengers ; and the powder, with f me
ball which accompanied it, is alledged to have
been part of the equipment of a French fri
gate, and to have heen afterwards replaced ;
but without explaining wh«nce or in what
manner the supply to the frigate was obtain
ed.
Under these circumstances, the judge of
the tliltriit pronounced fer.tence of condim
nation againil tie privateer, founding his de
cree upon the exportation of the inufquets,
but without giving any direst opinion ar to
the powder, which in my judgmant formed
the most iiiiportar.t and fetious question in the
cause ; because, it foreign veflels of war
might supply the (hips or colonics of their
nation with ammunition, from their equip
ments, and again replace the fame, probably
by purchases within the United States, ev
ery prudent and nece(Fary precaution to pte
ferve among ub tlie means of defence, might
at the pleasure of foreigners de rendered
■abortive.
The sentence of the Diftrift Court in this
cause having been pronounced, an appeal as
ilated by Mr. Adet, was interposed by the
French Consul at New Yoik, and about this
period a sale of the privateer took place by
tonfent. If the faities intercfted suppose
that this vessel would fell for no more than a
" tenth part of the cod of her armament,"
it was optional with them to have re.'used
their confeßt. I knop mo law of Congress
such as Mr. Adetjjjkides to, requiring veflels
to be given uprup'on security, under the cir
cumstances dated. No such law was prodti
ced bv the Consul or his attornies, and it
would have been. palpably improper, that a
privateer condemned by the sentence of a
Court of jnftice," {hould by any aft of an offi
cer of the Executive Government go into
the handi of one of the belligerent parties
completely equipped to cruise against its,ene
mies. Such an aft would probably have been
ctfhfidered as a deviation from ftrift neu
trality and might have been productive of
serious coofequences.
In the month of April .last the appeal in
the cafe of the privateer came on to Re heard
before Judge Chafe, in the Circuit Court of
the Diftrift of New York. Whatever
might hate been the expectations of the
consul or his attornies, they did not choose
to reft their cause upon the evidence taken in
the Diftrift Court; but upon the fir(t day
of the hearing produced nc w witnefles. Af
tet these had been heard the argument was
commenced for the appellant ■ and answered
on th« part «f the respondents ; but as the'
judge plainly intimated his opinion for con
firming the former fenter«e, unless further
evidence could be produced to a particular
point, the appellant's coi:ful applied for and
obtained a delay of two days, and in that in
terval, by some fortunate eafualty met with a
\vitne£s,who had only be»n a few months a:
rlew Yoik, and was able to remove every
difficulty.
Ip confequeiiet of this new evidence, julge
Chaie thought proper to revcife the fei.tt.nce
cf the Diftrift Cuutt. condemning the pri
vateer but" ht net only certified that
tbet« was probable taufe for the piufecutton,
but as the inroeenct of the party had not
been maoiftfted in the early stages of the
cause, he iircfted all the fees of the off.ceis
<<f the«ourt to be paid by the claimant.
As this decree of the Circuit C-urt had
beefl Obtained uuder exttaordinary circum
fiances, and as the quediou rcfj>c£tlnjf the
powder fttll appeared to me of the uimoS
importance, I thought it my dutjr to enter
an appeal to the Supreme Court, and to pre
pare a (late of the cafe, that the superior of
ficers of (jovernment judge whether It
(hould be proftcHtcd or abandoned.
If any further information as to this caufc
(hould be deemed neceltary, 1 mull refer to
the (late of the cafe abovementianed, and
which was tianfmitted by me to the Secretary
of the Treasury. I fiave only further to ob
fefve that I am ignorant how the officers of
the Didrift Court were " interefletTiti the
condemnation of the privateer or her prize."
1 believe that that the fees of the Clerk arid
Marshal were the fame, whether they were
acquitted or condemned : arid I am certain
that as to myfelf, the charges against the
United States did not at all depend upon
that circumstance. 1 hope indeed, that I
(hall at all times be incapable of commenting
or carrying on a prosecution merely with a
vi<w to my own private emolument. lam
ready at any time, to meet enquiry upon this
fubjeft, and I am fatisfied that any person
who in -this free and enlightened country,
could fa far be blinded by mercenary mo
tives as to profticute his office for the gratifi
cation of them, would be soon temoved from
it with ignominy, if he fhotild even cfcape
aqy other punishment.
1 have only to add,
that with the highell refpeft,
1 have the honor to be,
Sir,
Your mod ftbedient servant,
RICHARD HARRISON.
[TRANSLATION].
Philadelphia, 29'h Floreal, 4th Year of the
French Republic one and indivisible (18th
May 2796, O. S.)
The Minijlcr of the French Republic
near the United States, To Mr.
Pickering Secretary of State of the
United State/.
Sir,
I HAVE just been informed indireßly,*
that the House of Reprefentstives hR6 palfed
a Bill for preventing the sale of the prizes
which (hall be brought in by the (hips of war
of the Belligerent powers. If this law did
not appear to me to dedroy tlie efltfts of
our commercial ereaty ; if it did not appear
to me opposite to the duties of an impartial
neutrality, I (hould remain silent ; but th»
interefi of my nation and \he positive orders I
have received on the fubjeft from my govern
ment, oblige me at present to transmit some
observations which seem to me calculated to
merit your attention.
By the 17, and 22, At tides of their com
mercial treaty, the United States and Franc*
agree in an explicit manner, that in cafe one
ot the two powers (hould be at war, its ene
mies (hould be excluded from the ports of the
other, when they (hall have made prizes on
its citizens. When they mutually guaran
tied a free admission of their (hips of war, of
their privateers and of their refpeftive prizes
into these ports,it is clear that they implicit
ly aflured to each other the right of there
felling these prizes. In faft, France having
no continental podeffions in America to
wards the latitude to which English veflels
must go on their return to England, it was
to her of extreme importance to have friendly
ports into which her veflels might conduft
their prizes and fell them, without exposing
them anew to the rid: of the Sea; which
would be the cafe if they were obliged to fend
them to France or to her colonies. It was
also interefling to the Americans engaged in
a war with an European power, to have ports
into which they might conduft and freely
fell their prizes made upon the coall of Eu
rope, without being forced to cross the At
lantic.
These considerations leave no doubt that
by the 17th and 22d Articles of the treaty
concluded between the United States and
France, each nation had implicitly secured
to h'erfelf the right of felling in the ports of
the other the prizes which her snips of war
or privateers (hould have made. This right
which the two nations (hould enjoy has been
acknowledged by our enemies, by the courts,
and by the government of the United States.
Whenever our enemies have a;tacked a
prize made by a pirvateer, it has been only
under the pretext that the privateer had been
armed in the United States, and that (he
had therefore derogated from both the laws
of neutrality and the Presidents proclama
tion.
The American courts have never con
demned French prizes but upon the faft of
having armed in the Uniterl States; and
when the contrary has been fully proved, the
privateer had the right of felling the piizes
without any obstacle. Yet in virtue of what
aft could (he fell her prize ? Of the i2d
article of our commercial treaty. This
article has already afforded a vail field for
difcuilion upon the implied right it appears
to grant to one of the two nations to arm in
the of the other. The American go
vcrrment conceived that this condruftion
could not be given to the 220 article ; it ex
plained itfelf formally in this refpeft ; but
did not objeft to the right of felling prizes ;
it has even expressly acknowledged it, since
it has conltantly permitted the French (hips
of war and privateers to enjoy it.
* This Bill had pafled the House with little
opposition, and by a great majority, being sup
ported by members of all parlies, as founded in
principles ot true national policy./
The patriots in the Senate, unable there to
defeat it inicrted a trifling amendment, which
sent it back nectflarily to the lleprefentativei,
where;.to the alionilhmcntof those, not in the
ftcret, which this letter now explains, Mr. Gal
latin, who had been its advocate, moved to
poflponc it to the next fef&on, for the most friv
olous reafori, (in which France was cautiously
omitted :} The friends of the Bill, some of
whom were absent, not thinking it poflible so
sudden a change could have occarred, were off
their guard, and a majority, properly mtijud,
pdfloticd, and thus defti uyed the bill.
This letter now unfolds the mystery.
Tlit enemies of Fiaace could not accuse
yo jof violating the rules of neutrality by
leaving to her the free exercise of .this right,
a 1! it resulted from the Cafus federis, aud the
obligations prefctibed by a treaty do not lead
a neutral nation from the line of neutrality
whenever (he acquits herfelf of them. There
fore, Sir, the English cannot for that; icsfon
bring i'u their prir.es here. The Secretary
of State afTured me in his letter of 6th July
1795, '* iat ''" 3 Ilipulation of our treaty
fliould be faithfully observed in this tefpedt
by the American government. Since not
withllandiiig the similar right afTuretl to the
king of Great Britain by bis treaty withvhe
United States, it is stipulated tbat it fliould
not derogate from foimcr treaties entered
into by the United States. It is clear there
fore from this, fhat during the whole course
of the present war, we should, i» virtue of
our treaties, enjoy alone she priviledge of
bringing in and felling our prizes here. But
if at present a law existed, prohibiting, in
general terms, the sale of prizes, it would
bear upon France alone ; and at the fame
time, that it deprived her of an advantage
granted by her treaty, it would tend to af
feft the balance of neutrality.
la faft, Sir, French (hips of war and pri
vateers having alone the right of bringing in
and felling their piizes here, it would be the
interest of England, in cafe (he could not
procure the fame advantage, to deprive
France of it: for to take an advantage from
our enemy is a real benefit to us, even tho
we could not enjoy it. Betides, would not
England by tbat means have new chances in
her favor ? If ou- prizes could nolonger"be
fold in your ports th»y must be conducted to
the colonies or to France ; and, would not
the English then have greater opportunities
for intercepting them ? It is evident there
fore that the law procured for preventing the
fa!; of prizes is entirely in favor of the En
glifh,and to our difadvantagc. But if it be
the duty of a neutral nation neither to grant
no» refufe more to one of the belligerent
powers than to another, when there d» not
exist particular ftipulatiop.s provided for by
treaties previous to the war, it follows that
the law in quettion being in favor of Great
Biitain cannot be conformable to the rules
of neutrality.
I venture to hope that you will feel as 1 do
the jullnefsof my obfervatians ; and that the
povernment of the United States, will take
thenecejfary meafurei\' for preventing the ef
fe&s of a law contrary to the treaties and to
the duties of a neutral nation.
Accept, Sir, the aflurance of mv refpeft.
P. A. ADET.
f See the foregoing note.
- 1 11 ■ 1
0" A meeting of the Merchants
is rcquefted at the Coffee House, at 12 o'cldck,
on Wednesday, the 14th inlt. on business parti
cularly interesting to owners of ships.
May 2*.
Just Arrived,
In the schooner Dove, Captain Paul, from St
Thomas, and for sale by the fubferiber.
Muscovado Sugar in hhds- tierces and barrels.
St! Croix Rum in hhds.
And Laguira hides.
ALSO ON HAND,
Imperial, Hyson, and Sherry and Malaga
Hyson Skin Teas. Wines.
Yellow Nankeens. Holland Gin in pipes.
Canton Cloth. Do. Cheese.
Lutestrings. Do. Glafs s ware.
Silk Hankerchiefs. China Ware.
Sewing Silk. Window Blinds.
Cotton in hales. Rheubarb.
Peruvian Bark. Quiekfilver, &c.
JOSEPH SIMS.
May aad. dl4t.
A few hhds. N. JE. Rumi
Of a SUPERIOR QUALITY,
HYSON -)
YOUNG HYSON >T E AS f ia quarter chefls,
And IMPERIAL J
FOR SALE BY
A. Marple & Israel W. Morris,
No. 60 t)ock-ftreet.
May mw&f9t
"Jonathan Harvey,
No. 106 SOUTH FRONT-STREET,
HAS FOR SALE,
A general assortment of Dry Goods
—Amongst which are—
A few boxes Irish Linens.
May 22 > wfim
Lailson's Circus,
South' Fifth-Street.
TO-MORROW EVENING, the 13d inilant,
A Variety of Equestrian Exercises.
After which will be presented a favorite interlude
never performed here, called
THE F'USILIER;
Or, The Clown Outwitted.
Written by Dibdin. To conclude with a new Pan
tomime, called
HARLEQUIN'S WHIM;
Or, The Doftor Outwitted.
Box, one dollar. Pit, half a dollar. -
The doors will be opened at half past five
o'clock, and' the performances begin precifsly
at seven.
N. B. No person can be admitted in the centre
of the Circus, which is exclufivcly appropriated to
the Equcftrian Exercises.
No perion can be admitted without a ticket,
which will serve for the day only.
Days of performance, Thurfday,
and Saturday.
Divertimenti ;
Or, Familiar LcJTotis for the
PIANO F<JRTE.
To which is prefixed,
A Grcund for the Improvement of young Fr.icli
tioners:
COMPOSED by R. Taylor, rnuflc proftffor,
Philadelphia, publifhtd this day. price two
dollars, printed for the author, No. 96, North
Sixth-ftrcet, and fold at Carr's tcufical ripfcfitorie*
Philadelphia and New-Yoik, and Ormrod, No.
41, Chclnut-ftreet ; where may he had by the
fame author, a var ety of feriou;, comic and paf
aoral songs, rondo for forte piapo, leflon for two
performe/s on o«t iaflrumrr.t, &c. &c, See.
May I*,
L O N O O N.
FORTUNE-TELLER
On Friday last flie woman who has'long
advertised her (kill by the nameof Mrs. Wil
liams, was brought before Mr. Narei, at the
Shadwell Policc-Office, for the purpose of
having in her turn, Iferfortune told.
A young lady, who had visited her, having
had fufficient penetration, notwithflanding
V>er previous weakiiefs, to discover that she
was imposed upon, was advised by her friends
to apply to the above Magistrate, who, by
virtue of an aft made for punidiing rogues,
vagabonds, soothsayers, fturdy-beggats, See.
granted his warrant, and the itnpoftor was
fo»n after brought before him : she was-f/f
----gantly drejfed, aud was accompanied by a per
son who fnid his name was Redhead, arid
that the lady Was his wife.
The magilliate, indulged her with a chair
in which, she fat down, and instantly fell into
violent hvjieric Jits, from which fns fuon, by
virtue of her art, tecovered herfelf, and Mr.
N. proceeded to his duty. He hea-d the
evidence against the pnfoner, and was about
to commit her for further examination, but
she fell again into fits at the thoughts of be
ing sent to goal, and, on her recovery, prayed
she might be indulged by sleeping' on lier own
bed, and that the matter might be again
heard next day. To this the magiftratc con
sented, on condition that one of the Police Offi
cersJl'tp in theJame room. This was agre«d
upon, and they returned to Store-ltreet.
The next morning the parties came ag?in
before the magittrate. Mrs. Williams was
attended by her Counsel and Attorney ! The
cause was again clearly made out, but Mrs.
Williams waß discharged on her promise nevet
again to afTume the business of a Fortune
teller, and on her engaging to advertise in
all the papers, that (lie had declined business 1
Calculations of the quantum of human misery
occajioned ly the <war.
Died by ficknefsand the sword 2,000,000 ! !
Each of these unhappy person s
had, upon a moderate calcula- «
tion, four persons relative to
him, and either dependent on
him for fnpport, or deriving
comfort or confutation from
him.
The number of human beings
rendered miserable by the death
of these two millions will a -
mount to 8,000,000 ! !
Of the two millions we may fair
ly suppose. that one in four
had a wife and child ; there
will thcrefote have been left
orphans 500,ceo 1 I
and widows 500,000 I 1
Nor is this all: upon tbofe who have nei
ther loft relative nor friend by the war, the
load of misery imposed will not be found to
small. We will confine our remarks to En
gland alone, requefling our readers to recol
lect, that all other countris engaged in the
war have fufTered, at least an equal propor
tion. We have added by the wat too milli
ons to our debt, and five millions a year to
our taxes. The necessaries of life are at
least increased one third ; for example, a poor
man, with his wile and fi/e children, who
earns fifteen shillings a week, can now pur
chase about as much as he eould for 10s be
fore the war. Thus he is forced to maintain
seven persons at one (hilling and five pence
per week) We purposely leave out of our
calculation the manner in which our liberties
.have fuffered and been curtailed during the
war, though we are not uimindful that every
particular that is taken from our liberties is
is so much taken from the dignity as well as
the happiness of men, [Cam. paper.~\
VIENNA, March 11.
Our Court will now, it is said, 110 lon
ger receive any English subsidies. The re
port has given occasion to many conje&ures ;
but at present it requires further confirma
tion.
Field Marshal Wurmfer is arrived here. .
It appears to be confirmed, that the Ve
netians will make a common cause with the
Auft-ians ; on which account the Venetian
Envoy Grimani, has frequent conferences
with our minister Baron Thugut.
The Arch Duke will (till retain the chief
command of the army on the Rhine ; and
all dispatches from it, will in consequence be
sent dire&ly to him.
Besides the army of the Arch Duke,—
which in the whole, will be reinforced to
120,000 men, a corps,of refervc, of 25,000
men,will be formed in Carinthia and Carni
ola, which, should neccflitv require, will
march at the fir ft orders from the Arcb Duke.
ARMY OF ITALY,
Head Quarters, Mantua, 16 Ventofe, (March 6.)
The Gen. in Chief of the Etat Major.
Bulletin of the army.
The Gen. of division, Guien, retook on
the 14th Ventof; (4th March) the position
of Trevifo. Gen. Walther, commanding the
advanced guard, came up with the enemy in
front of Lovidina, defeated them, and pur
sued them to the intrenchments on the Piava,
18 men were killed, and 30 made prisoners,
adjutant general DufTaux, and the chief of
biigade, Barthelemy, were {lightly wounded.
0.1 the sth Ventofe, Gen. Murat got pofi
feflion of the enemy's entrenchments of Foy,
took 25 prifosers, and killed 20. He after
wards fell upon a corps of Tyrolean chafleuts,
and killed about 50 men.
Gen. Beillard, commanding the right of
the division of Gen. Joubert, has been at
tacked at Badola ; but he defeated the enemy
completely, killed 30, and wounded a much
gieater number.
Adjutant gen. Kelleiman, crofled the Pi
ava at Saint Mamma. He engaged an ene
my's post of hufTars, and put them to.flight,
having killed two men, and woundethone.
On tht 2d,in conformityto the ordeis &jin
ftruftions ofthe commander in chief, gen. Jou
bert, marched to attackthernemy the moment
they attempted to establish themfel.ves on the
left bank of the Lav is, gen. Beillard attack
ed the cr.csiy'* corps of Monte-de-Sevaro—
m 3t
He took frpm the enemy one standard and
forty oxen.
Gen. Murat attacked the advan:ed poff of
the enemy, and made 100 piifoners, the
brave carabineers of the iith demi-brigade
particularly dilliiiguiflied themselves.
(Signed) ALEX. BERTHIER.
LONDON, April 3.
The P.!(hop of Rochellcr jullly remarks,
that Parlfament ought not to have been term
ed the. People's Parliament. While the fub
(lance of the Conllitution has been gradually
impaired, and the fpiiit has been withdrawn
from the lifelcfs forms, the technical language
which (tiles the Parliament his Mnjefty'sPar
liarnent, speaks a melancholy truth, that the
different branches of the Conllitution are in
reality swallowed up in one, and that Parlia
ment is nothing mora than a minilteiial engine
to perform the ungracious talk of laying bur
dens upon the people.
It used to be said in Holland of a man
who failed in bufineft, that •' he had not kept
tiue accounts." If bankruptcy be uaturally
connefled with falfe or partial accounts, we
can fca»cely be surprised at the present (late
of public credit, since it has been the uni
form system of ministers to squander without
attention to r our resources, and the pra&ice
of Parliament to vote supplies without con
trouling the public expend.it nre.
The phil«fopher's (tone, so much fought
by crazed Ch'ymffts for several centuries, was
thought to possess the power of converting
every thing into gold. It has never been
found that this notable difcoveiy has been
made, but Mr. Pitt may boast that he hag
made very great progress in the.art of tranf
rtmtation, as he has very dextroufly convert
ed almost all the gold of thiscountrv into pa
per.
The profpeft of an expedition to the coafl:
of Spanish America, gives much fatisfac
tion to a number of army and navy Contrac
tors, who in calculating their profits, set no
value on the shedding of human blood.—-
They think only of yellow coin,, not of the
yellow fever.
Louis XVIII, it appears, exercises his
prerogative in difmifling his feivants. When
a German Prince ordered Voltaire to depart
his dsminions within three days, "Howkind
he is," said the wit, " to give me three days
to do that, which may be done in three
hours !"
■ Louis the XlVth inferibed upon his great
guns the motto, " Ratio ultima regnm."—
This species of argumentation has generally
been a favourite with crowned heads, hut, to
the shame of the Old School, they seem of
late to have been baffled at their own weapons
by the disputants of the New Philosophy.
Should the Emperor Paul join the nejir
partition confederacy against Germany,he will
afford a melancholy, illuflration of a faft
which ought to be particularly impressive oti
the people of this country, that it is not a
change of men, but of meajures which bene
fits a Ration.
Marshal Wurmfer has been appointed
Commandant Generatof the kingdom of ..Hun
gary.
HOUSE OF COMMONS, March 30.
Mr. Pollen said, he vviChed mod sincerely
not to embarrass minillers, but to gain the
co operation of his majefly's fubjefts*, to call
on them to renew a negociation for peace, or
to proceed with spirit and energy in the war,
if war lliould be unavoidable. He therefore
gave notice, that on Friday next he fho«M
have the honor to make a motion to. adiJrefs
his to renew a negociation for peace,
or for declaring explicitly the reason for con
tinuing the war.
LONDON, March ?7 .
At the late meeting of the Livery of London at
Guildhall, alderman Combe having received their
thanks for hisferviccs, made the following fpeeck :
Mr. Alderman Combe then advanced, and
heartily thanked his coriflituents for the ho
norable notice they had taken of him. The
condutt which they so kindly applauded, was
no more than he had promised at the time
that he solicited their tavor. It was always
his opiuion, that public situations were only
dcfirable, in order to give greater support to
private principles, as they publicly unfolded
the private man. On this opinion, and on
these principles he had hitherto a£ted, and
could sincerely allure them he would always
aft.
He congratulated them on the circumilan
cesof being now aflerrAled, notwithstand
ing the opposition n*.tde to it by their Chief
MagHlrate, whose coaduft on the occaGon'it
was not easy to explain, nor to divest of the
charge of partiality and influence. His lord
ship's own explanation was by no means fatis
faftorv. It was plain, that it was not prin
ciple which induced him to consult the Cumt
of Common Council onthe present occalion ;
as he did not think it neneflfary to do soon a
former occasion exadtly similar. He advised
his fellow citizens to be firm in the mainte
nance of the fame principles and spirit they
had roanifclled on ibis. An attempt, however,
to prevent the people of this country from as
sembling to consult oh the redress of their
grievances, and a parallel attempt to enforce
the fame prohibition upon them had .fortu
nately failed. They mud be warned by the
experience they have had. In proportion as
they loft their vigour, they felt more ftioilg
the hand of'calamitj ; in proportion as they
loft their independence, the more severely did
they feel the iron hand of oppr«ffion. He
concluded with thanks and that
whenever they weie pleased to inllru£l him, he
should be always ready to obey their com
mands.
Buonaparte,*the Prufiian envoy, the mar
quis de Lucchcfiui, and prince Augnftu
d'Ahrenberg, are said to have had a confer
ence near Bologna.
A Treaty t>f Commerce between Ruflia
and Pruflia is leady to be figncd, and an alli
ance will, it is said, be concluded between
the new emperor and Saxony.
So general and so strong is. the public in
dignation, at tWfe refufalofhis majelty to re
ceive the petition of the livery todifmifs thepresent minifleri, who have involved the
country in its present calamities, and it is
with mMch fathlad\:on wc hear of any cit
cumftanee, likely to alleviate the indignation}
because, as friends of me conftituiion, we
with his majesty to be beloved and refpefled.
It is now fjid, by perfor.s about the court,
that the kin;; only refufed to receive the peti
tion on the throne, as that was an honor to
which the convnoii foun.il wag alonf enti
tied, .aud that he will readily receive the peti
tion of the livery at the levee, ■ As friends
to his majesty we hope this is true. VV< wish
his majilty would gra*t the prayer of the
petition ; but for his own fake we hope he
will receive it with refpeft.
LONDON, Mar*h 30.
The Earl of Suffolk, who on Monday lad,
made a motion in the house of Lords for tjte
difmiflal of Mr. Pitt, yelterday, afteda part
that will diflinguifh his name in the page of
history, as a meritorious man. He attended
the Levee at St. James's claimed his heredi
tar) right of advising the crowo, and had a
private audience of his majelly, before the
council commenced for near twenty minutes.
The noble earl with the patriotis loyalty
and zeal that in days of yore charafteiifed
the Howards,laid before his rmjefty a faithful
pi&ure of the dillreifts of his people ; the
alarming .'late of public credit ; the injury
banishing specie mull do to the trade and ;
commerce and coufequently to the rcvenne of :
the country ; the discontent of the people at '
the incrcafed burthens and diminilhed means
of fuppori ing them, and at the abridgement
of their liberties, and the plan in meditation,
of governing by •* a vigor baynnd the law," j
—by military force ; the precarious (late of i
Ireland ; the peceflity of peace, and theim- |
probability that the present miniller can
conclude one. The general (late ofthe nation
was very ably described by his, lordship, and
he concluded by declaring, that the tran
quility and welfare <sf the country, the se
curity ofthe British throne, the fafety of his
majedy's family, required an inflant change
of men and measures. His lordfljip said the
only motive for his conduft was his affe&ion
for hit king and country ; he was attached
to no patty, and he had no other agvantage
to expefl from a change, than that which
would be common to every man of property,
namely—the security of that property and
the peace of the nation.
With fatisfaflion we add, that the king
listened with a willing ear to lord Suffolk's
admonitions. He owned he was sensible of
the situation of affairs ; that " something
rnuft be done j" and after thanking his
lordship for bis advice, and exprefling how
well fatisfied he was of the purity of his in
tentions, the conference ceased.
The Eail of Oxford also attended the
Levee yeflerday.
Yesterday a small open boat only about 15
feet long arrived at. Dover, navigated by
three English prisoners who made their escape
from France without a single fail, and having
only three oars. By this conveyance we
have received a tonfir,-nation of an embargo
having been laid in the French ports ; and
we understand it is for two months.
We have been so fortunate as to get by
the fame conveyance the Paris Journals up
to the 24th infh from which we hawe made
some interefiing extra&s.
PARIS, 3 Germinal, March 23.
The mod vigorous preparations are making
by Moreau,for opening the campaign on the
Rhine.
The Primary Assemblies opened yafterday,
in Paris, under the mod favorable auspices.
No agitation has been manifedad io them,
and the citizens, flock to them in great num
bers.—Very little of Jacobinism appears
among them, and their choice seems to be
direfted to the bed perfons.—Perlet.
MILAN, March [s.
General Buonaqarte is expe&ed here be
fore he goes to the Grand French Army,
which General MafTena now commands, pro
visionally, of which the principal force is in
the vicinity of Cifmore.
The Division of General Chabot, which
formed the blockade of Mantua, is already
arrived on the banks of the Piave.
The greatest part of the reinforcements
from the banks of the Rhint and the interi
or of France, amounting to 23,000 have al
ready atiived at the French army, which is
row in a condition to carry into execution its
plans against Tyrol and Friuli. Gen. Vau
bois, with a half brigade, only remains in the
conquered provinces of ths Ecclesiastical
date. Letters from Verona, (late, that it is
the intention of the French to attempt the
eonqueft of Lower Cannthia, and the Bishop
rick of Brixen, in order to cut off the Audian
troops in the Tyrol from those in Friuli.
Another French column, which will be sup
ported by a floatille on the Adriatic sea, Will
at the fame time advance against Friuli and
Triefle.
March 31.
Previous to the failing of the Walfingham
packet from Lisbon, a Briiifh officer arrived
therefrom Porto Ferrajo, in the isle of Elba,
He Rated that an account had been received
there ofthe island of Corsica being in a (late
ef infurteftton against the French govern
ment. At Corle, and several other places,
the British flag was flying, and invitations
had been made for us to take pwfftflion of the
island. The guillotine was adlively employed,
and amonglt those who had become its vic
tims was Angelo, one of the representatives
who had gone to France to solicit a force to
expe! |h« English from the island.
.The situation of the Spanish sailors on
board the prizes taken by lord Jervis, was
dreadful in the extreme, from the want of
every article in the medicine anJ chirurgical
chitls. A British officer represents his hav
ing fien one of those man whose arm had
been taken off, with no other bandage than a
biscuit t>ag. They have received every affifl
ance from our furgeom since they have be
come prisoners.
A tt>V JiUXPS OF
Bo|ogna Sausages,
Of a superior quality, lo be Sold it No.
199, South Front-Street.
' April 90, tots
PHILADELPHIA,
MONDAY >VEN\N"G, MAY
Failure of the Porto Rico Expe
dition.
KxtraA of a letter from Croix, Hated May 7.
" An expedition of magnitude was formed
againit Porto Kico, alvout a fortnight ago, hy tlu
british admiral and general from Martinique.—
1 hey carried' with tV-m fevni-al ihips of the line,
some frigates, and a great many iranfportj and small
veflels. After having efFeited a landing at Caa
grcjos,_ erecled batteries within gnn-i!iot cf the
bridge, and bomb-irded theoutworln in the neigh
borhood of St. ChriJlophers so efFe&ually as to
deni-li(h the formidable batteries. They suddenly
rctinquiihed tl;c enterprise, aiv' embarked last
Sunday morning, after leaving-behiud their artil- j
lery, ammunition, proviiions, baggage, See. &c. I
T his retreat was fuddun and unexpected, and has
disappointed many.
T he failure of tht3 expedition cannot be ex
plained fatisfadlorily, but I believe it was occa
fi:>ntd by defective intelligence refpeiling the
strength of the fertifications and a want of
troops, as they took with then) scarcely 3000
men. The English
wounded, and as many more by desertion. The
Spaniards had 500 men killed in the different
engagements. This buflnefs has been badly
conduced on the part of the Englilh.
St. Croix, May 7, '97.
The President by nominating John Quincy
Adams, Esq. to be minider t<» Berlin, has
merely exprefled an opinion that hi« services
will be more ufeful there, than at Lisbon
The transfer of (ituation will iiidisputably be
attended with perlonal inconvenience to Mr.
Adams, and will be attended with no in
creale of emolument—how gross is the
fijggeliion in Bache's paper, which attributes
this aft to personal confuierations !
At the late Eleftion of Members of the
American Philosophical Society, held at Phi
ladelphia, the following persons were duly
chosen ; viz.
John Heckewi!der,of Bethlehem, Pennsyl
vania.
John Stewart, of Green-briar County,
Virginia.
Samuel Blair, d d. of Philadelphia.
Thomas Pi.-.ckney, of South Carolina, late
Minider Plenipotentiary from the United
States, to Great Britain.
We hear, that a eertain J. Lamberton, a
noted Democratic Member of the State Le
gislature, v»as tried for, and convidledof for
gery, by a druck jury, at the Court held at
Carlisle the week before lad.
In the Senate, on Wednesday lad, as is u
sual, a committee was appointed to draft an
answer to the President's speech to both hou -
fes. The committee confided of Me(T. Tra
cey, Sedgwick and Livermore. They re
ported an answer on Friday, which under,
went some discussion ; was recommitted, and
two members (Meflrs. Henry and Taze
added to the committee. The Senate
met on Saturday to receive thefecond report
which was made a little before two o'clock ;
and after being read, was, on motion of the
chairman, ordered tolie on the table till Mon
diy.
Arrived, schooner President, Robert Lil
libridge, mader, 20 days from L'anfe a Veau,
with whom came paffcngers Captains W. M -
Betts and Btirrowes Aborn, of New-York,
by which anival the following information
has been received : that two days previous
to the failing of capt. Lillibtidge, a fchr.
from Baltimore, , Street, supercar
go, bound to Petit puave, was captured by
a French barge, & brought into Petit Trou ;
that on the 27th ult. Mole H'ad beating
N- E. distant 8 leagues, spoke the fch'.oner
Farnham, from Philadelphia, bound to Petit
Guave—(he had the preceding evening bren
boarded by his Britannick Majdly's. cutter
the Penelope, and ordered to the Mole ; the
Penelope conduced her under the guns wf ihe
fort, and dood off; but having left onlvone
of her nten on board, the captain of the,
Farnham took the advantage of the night,
resumed his command and proceeded on his
voyage. . At 5, P. M. Capcain Lillibiidge
was boarded'by the captain of the Penelope,
who treated him with civility, and after ex
amining his-papers, permitted him to proceed
en his passage, having informed him that an
English frigate- had, the week before, given
chace to the Hermione French frigate, and
that ihe had been rui* alhore near Jean _Ra
bel and blown up. At 6, P. M. fame day,
capt. L. was Sled upon, brought to and
boarded by anofficerfromthe letterof marqut
(loop Mermaid, W. Thornbuiy com
mander, from Jamaica, bound to Halifax ;
after the usual examination of papers, &c
was again permitted to proceed. The day
following, being dill in company with the
Mermaid, received a second (hot from her,
, and was ordered to drop under her dern, and
follow her ; upon capt. L. representing to
capt. Thornton that he was deditute of wood
and that he wiflied to anchor under the lee
of Heßeauga, to get a supply, he was per
mitted to haul up under the land'for that
purpose, and the President and Mermaid were
both brought to anchor at Meridian. Capt.
Thornton detained capt. L. till the next day
when he sent his boat with a number of arm
ed men, took poffeilion of the President, and
Ivith drawn cutlafics drove capt. L. and his
paflengeis and crew into the boat, took them
on board the Mermaid, and confined part of
the crew in irons ; he then manned.the Pre
sident with two white men and five negroes,
and ordered her to follow him to Bermuda,
for legal adjudication, atid that merely be
caule Ihe was from a French port. Captain
L. was returned back to own veflcl, previ
ous to her failing, to aflill in carrying her in,
and captain Abotn and Betts were also per
mitted, a few days after to go on board.—
On the paflage captain T. repeatedly fired
upon capt. L. and when the sea was run
ning very high, frequently laid the Mermaid
close along fide the President, and also a
thwart bows, which very much endangered
the fafety of both vessels. The day of their
arrival in the latitude of Bermuda, Captain
T. bore away in chace of an America* brig,
when capt, L. and his pafTer.gers retook the
Prcfident, and altered her deftl'i gtion. Cap
tain L. unwilling to believe the ridiculous
and brutal conduct of capt. T. could have
been diflated by his government, concludes
liim to be either a madman or a fool. One
of the crew fiom the letter of raatque ilia:
captured the Prcfidwif, and wan-put on board
is by birth »n Ameiican, from Ea!l Hsd
!am, Connedlicut, and cairiis with him a
ccrtifi ate of the famij, from ' lie collcdlor of
Cnaiiedon, Isaac Holmes, dated 29th Oflo
ber, 1796, his name is Nathan Dickinfor,
and had the impudence to declare that he
would swear capt % L. diddeUzie to him, that
all his cargu was French property —The
prize mailer, Samuel Welsh of Barbadoes
declared the fame. It it almost unnectffary
to add, that all the fchooneri cargo belongs
to three Americans.
Capt. L. alfa inform?, that the Republi
cans were advancing in force again!!; the Bri
tish pods in the Bite of Leogar.e ; that Ge
neral Rigatid had marched to attack Jeremie,
aRd its dependencies, with 8000 men ; that
General Tonflaint, with an army of ?0,000
men, had inverted Port-au-Piinca, had carri
ed some ef the out pods and killed and ta
ken 1000 of the enemy ; and that General
Buveau, who had lately met a feme repulse,
was Hill carrying on his operations againfl
the block-house between Poit-su Piince and
I-ieogaue, with a very refpedfable foree.
Capt. L. likewise adds, that the French
barges continue to capture every American
vessel that falls in their way, and whether
their destination be to or from English or.
French ports, is quite immaterial, as these
plundering vagabonds invariably swear the
former. The very few who may arrive fife
in their ports find even there the fame
plundering system pursued by the ad
mini!trators, who from them what
ever their own pcrfonal convenience or the
exigence of the republic may require, pro
miiing at the fame time, immediate payment
—but those promises arc, in general, disre
garded, nor has any payment been obtained!
but by the moll painful facrificeof property,
by giving most exorbitant fees to induce them
to make good their engagements.
R. LILLIBRIDGE.
From the log book of the Warren.
April 9, lat. 48, 17, long 1 . 16, spoke the
brig Lavinia, of iNewburypoit, from Charles
ton to Falmouth, out 32 days, all well.—
May 10 lat. 37, 37, long. 59, fpske the ship
New-Jersey, capt* Clay, out four days from
hence to Canton, all well. Id the Warren
came 9 paffengeis.
From the log book of the brig Friend/hip, De
vine, arrived here the 19th injl. from Bour
deaux.
Majf 7, in lat. 36, 30, long. 65, spoke
the fcrig -Enterprize, Langdog, of Ports
mouth, put 45 days from Bourdeaux to Gua
daloupe, all well.
The (hip Keniington, Kerr, of this port
rom India, was at Hamburgh the 25th of
Marchi had discharged her cargo, and was
(hortly to proceed to England,
PRICES OF STOCKS.
P HILAVKLVHIA, MAT 2 2.
% per Cent. 16/10
Deferred 6 per Cent. 12/9 a 13/
S{ pet Cent.
per Cant.
3perC«nt. I<y3 a 6
BANK SHARES.
Bank United States, 18 a 20 per cent, advance.
Pennsylvania, 25
North America, 47 £ 53-
IXSURANCjE COMPANY SHARES.
I. C. of N. A. 3S »37 4 P er cent, advance.
Pcnnfylvania, at par.
Extract of a letter from Salem (Mass) May
16th, 1797.
" I have the fatisfadlion to inform you that
I this day received letters from Mr. Bayard and
Mr. Cabot, who forward me two awards, one
of X.460 flerling with interest from the 14th
August 179.;, as compensation for the loss and
amages sustained by the capture of the schoo
ner Polly, John Shillaber, mailer, who you
remember wis taken and carried into Bermuda,
and there tried and cleared. The other for
£.600, with interest from ' 24th May, 1794,
as eompenfation for the loss and damages sus
tained by the capture of the schooner Polly,
Nathaniel Knight, rnafter, who was carried
into Jamaica, and there tried and cleared.
Capt. John Barr has also an award for the
capture of his schooner Neptune, of £.440
lleriing, which was taken at the time captain
Shillaber was at Bermuda and cleared.
111 order that you may have a full under
anding of the adjudment of these cases, I
nclole you a copy of one of the awards.
This day capt. John Bickford, in Mr. Gray's
•Vip, arrived from Calcutta, and capt. Orne's
liark, John Ropes, arrived on Sunday last."
By this clay's iVlail.
NEW YORK, May 20.
NEW-YORK, May 20.
Th« follawing is a copy of an award of the
commiflioners on American claims in London,
in a single cafe of a vessel belonging to New-
Haven.
Communicated for the Minerva.
Jan. 14. We award four thouflind, fix hun
dred and fifty-eight dollars, American curren
cy, with interest thereon, at five percent, from
the firft of January, 1794, in compensation of
the loss and damage fultained by the capture.
Wm. SCOT',
John Nicoll.
London, Feb. 12.
To
Gentlemen,
I have the pleafiire to fend yoji the above co
py of an award in your favor, by the gentle
men, to whom, by an arrangement between the
government of the United States and Great
Britain, cases of cods and damages have #ceii
referred for a m»re early settlement, than could
be had by way of appeal. By the earliest con
veyance after the sum awarded you, has been
paid, and the amount of cods to be deduiled
trom it has been afctftained, you (hall hear
from mc, and be authorised to draw for the
balance.
Your obedient servant,
Samuel Bayard.
ExtraA nf a letter from a gentleman ar St.
Pierre, (Martiniqut) to his correspondents in
this city, dated April 23.
" The last armupeot that ltft here is new at
* St. Cliriftophers, but the general ;nd admiral
mfafures are kept lb close, thjt it is impofiibie
for any perl" n to tell their |deftinatio» ; tbrer
clays af.er the armament failed,'a lived a .othe.
fqr.adrc.n-from England, aiih 4100 rne.i o
board, whicb come very opportune y, as the ill
and was pretty well drained of men. Our
cruizers t.re very vigilant in these ftas, as French
! privateer* are fending into the Jiff-rent ifl.mds
almoit every day ; there are thr-e Aiuecicans
here now that were 'aken hy t|ie Frem.li and re
taken by the English, which are cleared by pay
ing an eighth salvage.
BOSTON, May tf.
Capt. Blsurt, arrived here yeflerday from St.
Ul>es, fabout 15 miles from Li(bon,J informs,
that admiral Jarvis's fleet -were thtn lying ar
Liibun, repairing, and imprcfling men ; and that
it was the report at St. Üb<», that the Santiflima
Trinid id o£. 130 guns, funk after the a<3ion of
14th Feb. going into Cadiz. It is the London
accounts of iVarch, 31 (by no means so late
as capt. Blount) which mention the arrival cf
thisimmenfe floating fortreli . » Algtziras.
By capt. Hinkley, from Hamburgh, arrived
yesterday, our accounts a-.id letters are to April
'6.—Wc have nosonfinnationof the reinvitation
of Mr Pinckney to France ; nor was theafp<*sl
of affairs more sombre than usual. Mercantile
confidence was not impaired ; nor a quarril
between the United Stales and France contem
plated.
Our Liverpool accounts by yeflcrdav's arriv
al were on!y to April 3 —no more recent than by
capt. Davis.
A Hamburgh price-current of March 28th
dates, the premium of insurance from thence
to a port in the United States, at from 5 to 6
per cent.
Captain Williams ef Conne&icrvt, whom
we lately mentioned as commanding a French
privateer out of Guadaloupe, very narrowly
escaped the twigging, which such privateers
men deserve. His vessel has been taken ; and
he made his escape it) the boat.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
Pout of Philadelphia.
ARRIVED.
Brig Packet, Strong, Charleston 8
Sloop Sally, Watts, Havannah 16
Schr. Ramble, White, N. Carolina 3
' • Betsy, Dougall, Ditto 10
Polly, Wefcot, Ditto 10
Baltimore, May 19.
Yederday arrived, snow Hannah, capt. Ea
fton, ao days from St. Bartholomews.
Left there—ship Cecilia, Andrews, of Rof
ton, schooner Stephenfon, of Wilmington, Del.
schooner Little Tom, Dennis, of Portsmouth
Virg.
April 29, was boarded by a French privateer,
the captain of which overhauled his papers,
detaining him half an hour, treated him po
litely and dismissed him. The privateer had
' captured the brig William, of Wifcaffet, —
from Demar.tra, bound home, and sent her for
St. Martins. The brig Polly, of Portland,
(Mass.) wa» lying at St. Bartholomews, (he
had been captured in January lad, by a French
privateer, on her passage from some part of En
gland to Norfolk, and sent in there ; the go
vernor of that island had seized on her as neu
tral property, brought into a neutral port. —
Captain Eaßon brought with him the letter
bag, with some other articles, and two elegant
stud horses, which were on board of the above
ship.
Captain E. saw four British frigates, about 4
leagues inside the Capes, who fired eight (hot
at bim.bnt were not near enough to reach him.
Yederday arrived the snip Hampton, Capt.
Stafford, in 50 days from Hamburg.—April 7,
lat. 48, a, long. 7, o, well, was chafed fix
hours by an armed (loop. April 10, lat. 45,
j 29, was chafed five hours by an armed (hip,
took her to Ik French ; April Z4, lat. 41, 57,
long. 40, o, spoke the Clip IncWtan, Indiaimn,
from Port-au-Prince, danding to the ealtward,
full of troops - ten fail of vessels were in com
pany with the Indoftan. April 26, lit. 38, 38,
'® n S- S7> °> spoke a (hip from Norfolk bound
to Bremen.—April 30, ipoke the brig Beifey,
captain Norton, 25 days from North-Carolina,
bound to Hamburgh.
Left at Hamburgh (hip , Dafhiel, Balti
more, to fail in two wteks - the (hip , cap
tain Moore, failed two weeks before captain
Stafford.
Also arrived, ship Aurora, Brantz, 15 days
fr»m Cape-Nichoh-Mole.—The brig Dolphin,
of Savannah, and schooner Thetis, of tJa'.ti
mere, were taken out of the c»nvoy by armed
boats on the 20th of April ; the brig was ran
on (bore on the Platform and plundered;—
schooner Hope, Kean, arrived at the Mole the
28th April.
Norfolk, May 13.
Extradl of a letter from Jean Rabel, to mer
cantile gentlemen in this tows, dated
April 24.
" 1 v/ifh you would have the following
few lin«9 published in the nevrfp;-* ers through
out the United States,forewarning all mallets
and mates not to sign any paper or writing
whatever if they are captured by French pri
vateers, as by so doing they very often (igr.
their own condemnation.
On tliurfday arrived here the brig Norfolk,
t 1 days from the Havanna ; informs, that
the Governor of the Havanna has tfftied an
order to allow no more Atneiican vefftls to
enter that harbour coming from an enemy' 9
port. An Ameiican (loop from Jamaica ar
rived off the Moro Castle with a caigo of
slaves, on the 22d of April; they would not
allow her to enter the harbour nor anchor on
the outside : the capt. being In want of wa
ter and provisions, requelled permifllon to go
on shore in his boat and acquaint the mer
chant to whom he was addressed (Mr. Fra.
zcr) with his situation ; this was alio refufed,
and the next day the (loop was captured üb
der the guns of Moro Castle by a Ftench
privateer, carried into the Havanna, and the
Capt. robbed of 2000 dollais, his books and
quadrant.
THIS DAY PUBLISHED
THE second edition of the Auiora in
1794- —The variations to suit the circum
ftancci of the present day are trifling indeed
N. B. The viewj of the proprietors art the
fame.
The Subscriber,
Determined to retire from bufinefi, invites all
who have any no:e, bill, bond or acceptance
of his, now due, to call for payment ; and those
who wish to anticipate may receive the money
at a reasonable difeoui"*
JAMBS SWAN.
May 22. <i2W.
DorJieft.-r, ocarßoftoa, 16th May 1797.
No American prizes, hare as ye', been
"ondrcnued «t the Havanna ; bin they arc
l"fTered to lay there and sre ftiipped of their
ai, J maten'jls.
Two French privateers werecruifing w/'th
io two' or three leagues of the Moro, and
one under the guns of that Caltle, wi:h the
avowed determination to capture all Ameri
•an, vessels that had been to Eritifh ports lince
they left America,
The fr.ow BolWn, >apt. Daugherty, failed
tor Philadelphia in i inpany with capt. Rey*
.uilds—parted with her ofT Florida on the
4'h inft.
Capt. Manning, formerly matter oT the
fhip«Unio4i, of Norfolk, V.is entered as fee
ond lieutenant on board a French privateer.
Capt. Reynolds was embargoed for 14 days
before his departure.
New York, Mat io.
ARRIVED. DATS.
Ship Cygnet, , Hamburgh 50
Brig Jihza, Tewnfend, Salem 4
Boston, Mat 17.
ABRirED.
Ships Minerva, Hinkley, Hamburgh ; Mi
rier va, Eidridge, Bristol ; Miierva, Turner,
London ; Charles, Blouat, St. Übes ; brigs In
dbftry, Bagley Liverpool ; Juno, Atkins, Rot
terdam ; William, Bradford, Havannah ; fchr.
Friendship, Mart.
Capt Keefe, of the fhx p Fortitude, from Mar
tinique, has entered a protcft before Mr. Jufties
Barrett, that on the 12th iutr. he tell in with a
iifhing boat in the bay, which he hailed and re
queued rite feipper to exchange a fifli for feme
pork ; wlr.i-ti he confcnted to. Previous to hail
ing, capt. K. told the man at helm to keep up
near the boat, hut to be careful not to run her
down; the peopl: ih the boat feeing the fliip
come near them,called to put the helm up,which
the man at helm mistook tor capt. IC's ordei t,
and complying therewith unhappily ran the boat
down. Every effort was used to lave the men
—the (hip was hove too, and the boat hoifled
out immediately, and rowed to windward,
where the men were supposed to be, hut two of
them were unfortunately loft, and only one far
ed. The names of the two unhappy men 1011,
were James Atkins and fames Jones, belonging
to Cape Ann. C»pt. Keeft feels the highest e
motions of regret at the unhappy event ; and
sincerely condoles with the families which have
met the unfortunate <y!araity.
£ Anelucidation of the report refpecling rec
booters at hand," infertei in our lafiJ\
Arrived at Kennebusk May 7, schooner Co
lumbus, B. Mason, niafter, 26 dayj from St. Vin
cents —left there no American veflcls—failed in
company with (loop Claiiffa, Berkley, of Wea
thersfield, (Con.) parted with her in lat. 20.
In lit. 29, long. 30, sapt. M. was boarded by a
French privateer, who detained him fix hours,
and " fraternized" him out of aboHt Go gallon*
of rum, one bbl. sugar, one bag coffee, 2 fire
locks, and a number ot velTels tools and papers.
The privateerfmen said they would haue carried
him in, if they had found property enough on
board worth their attention. They brought fire
from the privateer, ordered the boy to kindle it
in the caboose said they were a going to burn
the vessel, and ordered the crew to put their
things on board the boat, and convey them to
the privateer. One of the privateerfmen then
carried a fire brand to mart head, another took
one into the cabin, while a third conveyed one
into the steerage ; but, on capt. M's declaring
that he had no money, and rcfuiing to quit his
veffsi, they defined and permitted liim to pro
ceed. " Our ilties the French area -very polite
nation J"
On Sunday arrived at Salem, capt. Rope*
in a barque from Calcutta. Onbei passage,
in the W. India latitudes, was brought to
by a French privateer, and eoramanded on
board with his papers—When 4 men from
thejßepublican veffd were sent to the barque.
Capt. Ropes difcovetincr that the privateer
had fcui few men on board ( having been weak
ened by manning other prizes) and they in-'
tended to eapture his vessel, he hailed her,
and commanded the mate and crew to confine
the privateerfmen who were on board, and
use a few carriage guns they had |un board,
to keep the privateer off. After a few inef
fe&ual attempsn to 1 educe the American, the
I'renchman at length came to terms—agree
ing to put capt. R. in poffeflion of his vessel
if lie would ii.sure the return of the 4 priva
teerfmen. This was. readily canfented to,
and capt. R. got on board, and purfacd the
remainder of his paffaee in fafety
Richard Bayley Qs? Co.
Late John Whitesides & Co.
No. 136 MarketJireet %
HAVE received per the (hips William Pcnn and
Star from London, a large andfaflnonablc aT
fortment of the following articles : viz.
Chintzes, and printed Cottons, of the newest
patterns
Furniture Dimities and Chistzes
Ginghams, plain and figured,
Muilins, printed and embroider'd
Do. tamtour'd, plai*, check and ftrip'd
Do tamboured, of a very superior quality
Fine Book, Jaconet z\id Dccca Handkerchiefs
Dimities and muflinets
Damalk table-linen, ia setts and in the piece
Diaper ditto in Cloths and in ditto
Holland and RufCa Sheetings
Loop'd Hollands and Irifli Linens
Long Lawns and Cambrics
Sattins and Silks, plain and figured
Ribbons and Gloves
Crapes and Gauzes
Straw, Chip, and Paper Hats and Bonnets, new
Shapes A
Fancy trimmings, &c.
With a variety of articles in the Linen-Drapery
and Haberdashery line.
May 22 §i©t
This Day is published,
By THOMAS DOBSOW,
At the Stone House, No. 41 south Second-ftrcet,
Price 37 i-i cents,
1 wo LeHures on Combujl'ton,
QUpolemei tatyto a courfeof Le&urci ooCHE-
O MISTRY ; containing an Examination of Dr.
Prieftlcy's Confident ions on the Do&rine of Phlo
giston, and the accotnpnfitioß of Water,
Ky JOHN MACLEAN,
Profcffor of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy
in the College of New-Jersey.
May_2j mwfip
Advertiiement.
To be fold ut private sale,
A LIKELY strong bay HORSE, $ year*
old, fit for tliefaddle. Also, a likely full
blooded MAKE, 4 years old, ruijs wtll, aHd.is
now fit for the path—They are lately from Vir
ginia, and may be seen at the ftafc'.cs of Jarcss
M'Cawley, No. 45 in Cherry alley. Any per
son dcfirousto buy either or both, mufl apply
to the owner, at Mr. Valley's corner cf Cherry -
alley and Fourth-f.reet.
May 2». 3tJust arrived, I'ch
In the brigs Tivint and Fame, collater;
A quintity of Havann* and St. Crcix Fex an
Sugars, That
of the firft quality. author.
—ON
iclce JAMAICA SPIRITS & St.CroixßJM | edjron,
7 am n €S '
On, Walnut-street Whart. g 4t i o ns
Miy dlCt - tion tc
Canal Lottery,
No. 11.
Scheme" of a Lottery, _!li!
iirthoriied by an aft, entitled, « an aft to
enable the President and Managers ot the
chuvlkiU and Snfquehaor.ih navigation, to
aife, by way of Lottery, tke lum of Four draw .
-I't'idred Tboufand Dollars, for the purpole ty . n „
,f complying the works, in their ads of eithe.
ncorporation mentioned. p ilars
1 Pri2e of twenty thonfatid dollars, 10,00®
j of ten thousand dollars, 10,000
, of four thousand dollars each, to
be paid to the nofTeflors of the five
numbers firft out of the wheel on the
lift day's drawing, at which time there
Cull not bv«fs than 500 numbers un
drawn, ' 2 °' eo ° Hi
t 0 of two thousand dollars each, 20,000
-- ~f one thousand dollars each, ao.ooo T
43 of five hundred dollars each, 21,500
100 of two hundred dollars each, 20,000
joo of one hundred dollarseich, 10,000
5-0 or fifty dollars each, 1 r.ooo
of five dollars each, 147,500 p,
i ' ' gioa
-.-,.000 Tickets at teß dollars each. 300,000 FIR
' - ■ m» ri
SiiTdoilars for each ticket will only be de- Scttl
jnanded at the time of file
All prizes (hall be paid ten days after the B
drawing is finifhed, "I>«" the , de v , ma " o a '
poirtfTor of a fortunate ticket, fubjtft .0 a de
duflion of fifteen per cent. prii
Such prizes as are not demanded within 12 wb<
mouths after the drawing is finifhed, of which terf
public notice will be given, shall be confideredas tjm
relintiuifhed for the use of the Canal and appli-d
accoruingly.'
At a Meeting of the President and Mana-
pcrs of the Schuylkill and Sufquehanna
Can'al Navigation—and the l'refident and
Managers of the Delaware and bchuylkill .
Canal, _ , _ . f
Refclved, That Jofcph Ball, John Stejnmetz,
StandiCi Forde, Francis Weft, James M'Crea,
John Miller, juv,. and William Montgomery,
be a committee to arrange and direst the ™ o^
of d'.ftofing of the tickets ! which cotnmittee
lhall deposit this money in bank, to be carrie m(
to the credit of an account to be opened foi ti)l
the Lottery. url
ne
We the CommifTioners appointed by the Go- all
verno'r to superintend the drawing ot the Lot
tery, inform the public, that the ticket, are
n.->w rolling up, and that the drawing will po
sitively commence on Mondaythe 29.5 i ®t May
Frederick Kubl,
yames AJh, * ui
George Budd. ci
Philad. April 17, 1797- 2aw 1,
Tickets at fix dollars each to be had of the K
managers, or at the canal office, near the bank fl
of the United States. 11
a
Lancaster, Harri/burgb, Carlisle, j 1
S.oippenfbur? and Sunbury r
STAGES. f
THE public are requeued to take notice, that a
the partnerihip which has for Come time sub
sisted bctwemi Mathias Slough of I.ancafter, and f
William Geer, is now difTolved; but, not as M. 1
Slough insinuates to the public without just cause ; 1
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fti.i
jed from M. Slough la W. Geer, dated the 29th ■
Djcember last. a recital of which is Hot now deem
ed necessary. Any gentleman who wishes to be
jnnre circumstantially informed of the merits ol
this business, by applying to W. Geer may have
the p rufal «f M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfedly juftifiahie in attaching him
felf to any ether person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
Now from the liberal and generous support the
public wore pleased to confer on the firft effort in
this business, William Geer, in conjunflion with
MelTrs. Reily, Weed and Wirmer, is determined
to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention and dispatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can poflibly exert. ,
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
render the paflage fafe and commodious, inform
thofa who with to patronizf and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George Weed's, the fipn o£ the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, en every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrilburg,
Carlisle and Shipperfburg. The fare as hitherto
c&abiifhed.
For the further accommodation ol the public,
a Stage will start every Wednesday from the house
cf Samuel Elder, ip arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thurlday,
and return from thevce and arrive at Hatrifburg
eveiy Saturday, so that passengers destined for
Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed on Mon-
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster, Jan. 27, 1797-
N. D. This Line ef Stages starts from the
houfc of William Ferr«e, in Lancaster, on every
Tucfday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro- 1
ceeding to the westward; and from the house of
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrilburg every Wednes
day morning, 011 the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns
from thence on every Thursday : performing the
fame routine daily as in its tour from Philadel
phia. " wf
GOLD AND SILVER
Bullion.
THE highest price in ready money will be ji
ve* for gold or silver bullion, old gold or
direr, or gold dull, at No. 59, North Scvtnth-
Ap'ril 20
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal
Company,
May lj, I 797.
THE STOCKHOLDERS
WHO are in arrtarsfor any funis due on their
reff eiftive fkares, are re<;ueftcd to pay the
WILUAM GOVETT, Trcafurcr.
m4w
THE holders of Robert Mgriii and Jpl.-ifci- J)
chcllen's notes and acceptances, deposited as n( j f u
collateral fccuritiesfor the engagements oi Edward
Fex and lamesGrecnleaf, are requeftid to
TAKK NOTICE
That tlic fubferibers, zt '.lie request and by the
authority of the holders of near nine tenths o! the
I amount of the paper above have recejv- A
! cd from George Simpfon, Efq an aihgnment of the
! trust under winch the fa">d notes and acceptances
arc secured, together with all the deed* and obli
nations thereunto attached —therefore any.app ic - --pVJ
no:, tcr sale of any part of said r™P«ty.s to be I t
made to TKOKfAS W- FRANCIS,
henry pratt, fcnndr
JOHN M'LLEP, jun. h
I°HN' AsHf V, t'ma
March 2. "
Notice. A Jf g ]
April 3d. i? 9- 3re
Manaerrs of the Canal Lottery, ±o. att(
X 11, an -ot nee to the public, that t e an( j t j
drawing will positively commence on the twen- ft(
' tv-ninth of May next. Tickets to he had of ihe s ,
: either of the managers, and at the Canal Office. RQB
Wm. MOORE SMITH, Secy. JOH
April 3 mtb> U9 ' hM Jtl
5 _ * '
A New Work.
glifh
PROPOSALS trar.l
For printing and publilhing, by febferiptioe, The
0 History of Pennfylvama,
0 T-N North- A merica, from the original j"®' 1 """" the I
° | 1 fetiU ment of that province, under the attel
° „ 0 r a,id governor, W,im am P.»«, •» 1681, till
» E
s£SSSESt n
HARE. To which is added, ]
A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SAID PRO
he na * VINCE.
le " And of the general Hate, in which it flout lined,
principally between thfe years 1760 and 1 770.. The
IX whole including a varletv of things, uiclul and 10
ch terefting 10 be known, refpefling lhaicountry in early j
as time, See. With in app.ndix.
,Ed Written principally betweentheyears i 7 /6and 1780, tor
By Robert Proud.
•« Pulchrum efl benefacere reipMica, etiam kvciicere
havd ablut ivm eft, vtl pace vtl bello darum jiert licet. _
ina J sal. Catalin.
,nd
iill " Stdcum pleriquearbitrentur res Icllicat majorei cjft >pc
quamurbanas, minutndtcli hacopuiw."
:t7 ' (Entered according to law.)
c-i,
T " WILLIAM PENN, the great legislator of Ae
. Quakers, (in Pennfylv. ma) had the success of aeon- t
queror. in establishing and defending h'-s colony, a- lyi
ie mong savage tribes, withou'. ever drawing the sword ; co
for the go odnefsot the mod benevolent rulers, tn trel- pi]
tin* his fubiefls as his own children ; and the tender- t h
nets of an universal lather, who opened his arms to f n
Go- all mankind without diftinftionot feft or party. In Q f
0 t- his Republic it was not his religious creed, but per- [a
"' are (anal merit that entitled every member of society to
the proteftion and emolument.of the State - .
P°y Efiy on Toleration,'by Arthur O'Lciry.
CONDITIONS.
I. This work will be primed to two octavo vol
urnes, neatly bound and lettered, both in Iheep and Jo
calf, for the choice of the fubferibers; on paper (imi- bi
y lar tnthat of Reconditions, aspMJhti m theSubjcnp
" of William Penn, handsomely en- i'
' the graved, will be prefixed to the 6rft, and a map or l a
jank sketch of Pennlylvania, and the parts adjacent, to the £}
second volume. , ~ H
lII* The price to fubferibers will be four dollars t j
and ah half in (heep, and five dollars in calfone
isle dollar to be paid at the time of fubfetibmg, two del
' lats on the delivery of the fir ft volume, and the re- i
mainder on the delivery of the second. . ■
IV. When one thoufat.d copies ate fublcribed a
for, the work will be taut to preis and finifhed with r
1 that ,|i convenient expedition. j
: sub- Subscriptions will be received by Zachaiiah Poul
, and son, jun Printer, No. 80, ChcOiut-ftreet, and at the
is M. Philadelphia Library in Ftfth-llrcet ;by lfaac Col
aufe ; lins Printer, and Jafeph James, Merchant, New- 1
: ftib- York; by John P..Plcafantsand George W. Field, 1
29th Merchants. Baltimore; and by other pcrfons both
Icem- in town and country. ]
tobe February 18. '» &f I
its of
:a t a be To be fold or let,
>t W. _/l n J immediate pejfejjion given,
h 'the A genteel two story Brick House ;
DPenf- C! IT'UATE on the uoper end of Broad-flreet, in
O the city of Eurlington, with four rooms and
rt the an entry on each floor, good cellars under the
ort in whole, a pomp in the yard, a garden and court
w ; t h yard, containing nearly half an acre under good
mined ,enl;e > with 8 ,Üble adjoining the yard. The
at- whole property is in good order.
For terms apply to the lubfcriber in Burlington,
who will give a credi* for a confide rable part of
mi j.j the purchase money if good security is given.
ince to William Coxe, jun.
inform May 17. aawtf
je the
Hor", William Hay don,
londay Drawing Majlcr, from London ;
'thf' "\T7"H £KE he st udied years under one
er 0 VV of the mofl eminent maflers in that fci
blic ence. He attends young ladies and gentlemen
ehoufe » their refpedlivc houses. His terms are fix
t Sun- dollars per month for attendance three times
ur.'day, per week; likewise all kind of ornamental
rifburg painting, fruit, flowers, &c. taught on the above
ted for terms.
1 Mon- A line direfled to W. Haydon, No. 26, Pear
street, will be immediately attended to.
JR. W. 11. flatters himfelf his terms will be par
ticularly advantagtous, where there arefeveral
om the pupils in the fame family ; as he makes no al
-1 every teration in his terms if there arc two or three
k, pro- to teach in one family,
uufc of May 9.
Vednef- ■■
s at Pa- This Day is Published,
rcturas fiY Mtff . Dobfon> Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the
,n R the other Booklellers,
hiladel- rice One Dollar and twenty-five cents.
Elegant'y printed on Wove paper, and Hot
prrjfid,
By John Thoropfcn,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
**£ The Constitutions
evtnth- 0f t,ic Several States with eafh other, and with
' that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
f the prominent features of each Conltitution, and
clafling together 1 their most impartant provisions,
Mil under the several heads of adminiftntion; with
Notes andObfcrvations.
D y WILLIAM SMITH,
797» Of South-Carolina,
L L. D. and member of the Coogrcfs of the
on their United Jv.tes.
> pay the Dedicated to the People ol the United States.
N. B. A few Copies ncpted oa an inferior pa
furjr. per, at*;,-4ths of a dollar.
BI4W February 6 r "- TV f
Imported in the Jhip Pigou, ] l b
And for sale by John Morton, No. u6,
Front-street, tta,
Hyson ) H'n
Hyson s ' c '" (-TEAS m ak,i
Young Hyson C and , th ,
Imperial J andho
April 20. rott eIV br
of the:
For Sale, and m
TWO LOTS OF GROUND in KenDng- swell,
ton, on the 104 th fide oF Hanover-street, hisifel
cintair.ing thirty-fix feet in breidth and one judges
hundred and sixty-seven and a. hall feet m ed, ai
depth to a twenty feel; al'.« For hirther 1,1 twc , y
formation enquire at No. 37, Arch-ftree .
March 18. — — cou
All persons who have any demands tuned
A gain(l thc estate of J6hn Einlay, deceased, diipai
are requelled to exhibit their accounts proper- ready
Lvatteftcd on or before the leth of May next
: and those who are indebted to said estate are re- e<
quelled to make immediate payment to either ot
f iiie Suhfcribers.
' ROBERT HENDERSON, > SMiiniflrators
JOHN M'CARA, 5 A
April 26. -
_ ——— ~ 7" Spru
Tranilauons. ' m;
MEMORIALS, advertisements, epistolary,
and Jothcr writings in French and En
glilh, undertaken by Samuel Chandler, A. . ,
translator of Le Monitetir, L'Oblcrvateur, Les
Quatre Fils Aymons, L'Heroine Aniericain, \\
and many other French authors. of C
' S. C. has been in the habit of compi.mg tor b , e (
• the molt approved publications, & occafionaliv t^e
i'l'j attending where the hurry of bufmels may re- carg
quire his immediate attendance. ]i en(
Encouraged and assisted by gentlemcP ot and
abilities, he propefes pubhfcing by ' for
li- tion, a work in French and Englilh, by the in j,
he 0 f The American S/ieaator. Ibe prolpedt- •;
• s > us may be seen at his lodgings, No. 67, A rcb- y a
street. . ami
April 87. 1 I
Benjamin iff Jacob John fan,
No. 147 Market street, Philadelphia, th; ,
.1 n AVE iuft received by the Conncfticut and other
- _
ment ot well cholcn j
rly Dry Goods, ao<
80, For the ensuing ?eafon, for sale on the lowed terms ba !
lor caih or ihe common credit. '
A laree -collection of Books at their usually «io- ml
rer
derate puces. t , si .
: Z e 4 th mown, 2 5 1h, .797, tw&f 4 wli
To be fold at Public Vendue,
# To the tiigheft bidder, at the house of Mr. tf
William Evans, the iign of the Indian (oi
'* CK'een, in the city of Baltimore, on the 15th t | )(
day of Oflober next, at 11 o'clock, A. M.
About seven thousand acres of land,
the property of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
a" lv'ns between Reifter's-town and Westminster, -
id"; commonly called Little Winchester, the turn
rca- pike road runa through a considerable parttot
d«- these lands) the traa begins about 17 miles
' sto from Baltimore, within a few hundred yards
,n of said Reifter's-town, and extends to the dil-
F cr " tance 0 f about twenty-three miks from Balti
ylo more, and lies on the main falls of Patapfico _
river, from three to four miles thereon. Will
be fold in trails of one hundred and htty to
three hundred acre. There is a large propor
. ticnof meadow and wood land on each trait,
an d fume of them highly improved, with excellent
fimi- buildings aud fine gri fs.
ALSO,
, en- A tratt of seven hundred acres of
por land, called Clover Farms, within five miles of
othe Bladenfhurg, esteemed very good for Grass.
Richard Ponfonby.of Bladenlburgh, willfeew
>llars , • j an( j t() an , perfop inclined to purchase.
-°" e ALSQ,
e re". A traft of land ©f about three hun
dred and thirty acres, within about two miles
ribed and a hjif 0 , t iie President's house in the Fede- t
with r al City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fine
p , high profpefl, from which may be fcen the ,
, h ' citv of VVafhingtcn, Bladenfcurgh, Alexandria
"col- and a part of George-town, and many miles ,
New- down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard Por.fon- ?
Field, by, of Bladenlburg, will alfa shew this land,
both ' A liberal credit will be given for the greatest
part of the purchase money. .he terms will t
be made known on the day of sale. t
May 8 w 3 m 1
Georgetown Bridge Company, j
Extraift of an ad pasted by the Legislature of (
jfe ; the state of Maryland on the 19th December,
:et, in 1791, entitled, "An a& for eref.ing a bridge
s and over Potowmac river.
:r the <• And be it enacted, that the said direflors or ,
court any two ®f them fliall and may require any sum .
good or s ums 0 f money in equal proportion from each
The and every proprietor, as may from time to time
be necefiary for carrying on the building of said
ng ton > bridge; and after giving three months public
* rt of notice, it fliall and may be lawful for the dire -
*■ ors to sue for and recover in the name of the
r l' company such unpaid requisition, with all costs
tf and charges incidental thereto, and legal interest
thereon from the time the fame ihould have
been paid: And the negletl or refufal to pay any
such requisition after public notice flrall have
been given at least for three months in all the
er one newfpapersheiein before enumerated, shall have
at f c ;_ the effect to forfeit all preceding payments made
•lemen on the lhare or ihares so negleifled or relufed to
ire fix be paid ta the use and benefit of the company."
times '' he above extracl is publifhfd for tbe infor
mental ination of such of the ftockbolders as have not
above complisd with the requisitions heretofore made
—they are as follow : On the ift November,
; p car 1795, l© dollars, on the 10th way, 1796, 40
dollars; an the 10th July, 1796, 40dollars ; on
le par- the ift September, 1396, 40 dollars, and on the
several ift November, 1796, 60 dollars. Caution is
„ 0 a l- now given that after theexpiiatlon of the time
r three limited for the continuance ef this advertise
ment (three months) the law will be carried
into rigid and complete effetft against all delin-
quents.
By order of the Directors,
nd the IVALTER SMITH, Trtafurer. j
Georgetown, May 1, 1797. iaw3m
i Hot- Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64, South Seeond-flreet.
T-ICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 2, for sale
This Lottery will positively commence
drawing tU: 19th day of May next —Checkbooks
id wth f or regiftcrlng and examination in this, the City
Tables, of vVafturigton, No - 4 > a,ld I>aterfon Lotteries,
ion, and now j riW . ingi ar e kept—also information where
jvifions, •|-j.j tet ,i n Valhington, N.>. 1. and Patttrfon may
1; witfa be had—Tickets in th« Schuylkill Bridge Lottery
!cr sale at ten dollars each, and as soon as issued,
1 [ icketsin all the «her Lotteries authorized by the
Legislature of this state will be for sale.
of the The luhfcriber solicits the application of the pub
lic aitfl his friends who with to fell bank stock, cer-
States. tificates bills of exchange or notes, houses, land,
rior pa- &c. or to oluio money on depvut of property.
WILLIAU BLACKBURN,
tr.wf April 8. 9®W
M'ttfical Inji utncnt Manufactory > i
No. 167, Arch-Street. 1
HARPER., harpsichord, grand, portable grand, •
fid >board, pier table and fquars pa. o forte tale >
jnakir from London, returns thanks to his irictids weft c
and' the public, for their liberal encouragement, i.t
and hopes that by hisaifii'.uity and attention to ev
ery branch of his tuDuefs, tomerit a continuance A Ut;
of their favors. Piano ftrtes made on th* newdft Enqu
andmoft approved /.as, with p.dals, patent,
fwcll, and French harp stop, which he flattei*
hiaifelf will ue found on trial by unprejudiced
iudecs.M be equal if not superior to any import
ed, and twenty per cent cheaper. Any
mant purchased -f him, if sot approvedcf m
twelve months, he will exchange. A I
of th
N.B. All kinds of Musical mO.rumeDts made,
tuned, and repaired with the greatcft accuracy, M
dil'patch, and on the mod reafanable, terms, tuf
ready money only.
Second hand Piano Fortes taken in exchange. In
May a*. Iu & 1
For Sale, Pris
A pair of Good Black Carriage Horfcs, J.
Which may beften by application at No. 114,
Spruee Street, between Second and Third.
May 11. ,
, Rid
700 Dollars Reward.
5 -itthEHEAS a certain Christopher F.Parr.ell,
y yv failed from Bolton, on or about the 27L 1
of OdoberUft, in the sloop Union, with a vahia- whc
r ble cargo, bound to Baltimore, but went ofi to thU
f the Weft-Indies where he fold the veilel and e ff o
' cargo. On or about the firft inft .he was appre- «fe
hended (as a fiifpicions chara&er) inthntown, geit
lf and examined b-fore several magistrates but futu
for the want of lufficient proof to detea him
e in his villany he was discharged. r;d
l " Thefaftis, the said Parncll is a villain, and ihc
is attempting to delraud sundry persons to the
amount of 20,000 dollars. ot f
_ He left this town about the 10th mtt. he ca s t
rode in a chair (painted green) drawn by a grey full
mare, and went oft the Newbem road, but on ma
this fide Trenton, took the road of Fayetteyille, po<
" and most probably is passing through the back
part of the state into the waftern countries.
He had wheu he left this town, upwards ot
iooo dollars in gold, and about 7000 dollars in hoi
ns banknotes.. a"
Parnallis a small man, about 30 years ot age,
o- much pock-marked, and has long black hair, qr„
remarkable small eyes, and has a down look eve
when spoken to. . ,
_ Whoever will secure the said Parnell, and
the money he has with him, and give informa
. tion to Benj.Williams of Baltimore, John Hogg, '
[r ' Esq. at HilUborough, to Mr. A. Jacelin, ot this lo
ln town, or to the fubferiber, who is in pursuit ot f ct
L '!» ''jtßNEV'c'ltAFT. £
Wilmington, (N. C.) April 16, 179 } P e
ia,
- ati
:F ' ~ th
l' { City of VYafhmgton. *
ies '
J SCHEME +
ki- Of the Lottery, No. 11,
' co For the Improvement 0} the Federal City.
fill
to A magnificent dwe'.ling-houfe »0,000 dollars,
T & cash 30,000, are 5».® 0 i
c ' j ditto 15,000 & cash 15,00® 40,00©
ent 1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
I ditto io,ooo & cash 10,000 jo,oeo
1 ditto 5,000 & calh 5,000 10,000
of i ditto 5,000 & caQi 5,000 10,000
. n c 1 cash prize of 10,000 c
',r £ a do. 5,000 each, are • 10,000
iew 10 do. J.ooo - - 10,000
,e do. 500 - - io> eot>
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
in 100 do. 50 - " I°."°°
1 "' 400 do. 15 * - J0 ' 000 -
"" x.coo do. 10 * l0 ' oon
■f e - 15,000 do. 10 • >s®, 600
fine
16,739 Priz«-
33,161 Blanks,
lues —• 1
on " 50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dellari, 40Q."°»
lte( * N.B. Tofsvour thofewho may take a ejuMi
wi" tity of Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
m but on* : ...
And approved notes, securing payment in either
Iy, monsy or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, wui
r be received foi any number not less than 30 ticfc
e ot
■ ets.
,' This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen o!
S c t j, e private buildings to be ert-ited in the City of
Waihington—Two beautiful designs ate already
rs or teletSled for the entire fronts 011 two of the public
s um squares; from these drawings it ispropofcdtoercA
each two centreand 'our corner buildings asfoonaspof
time fible after this lottery is Told, and to convey them,
: said w hcn complete, to the fortunate adventurers. 111
üblic the mannerdefcribed in the scheme for the Hotel
reifl- Lottery. A nett deduilion of five per cent, will
the be made to defray theneceffary expenfes.of print
cofts ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part ot
:ereft the fund 'intended for the National Univerlity, to
have be creeled within the city of- V aihington.
j anv The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the
have Prizes, are held by the President and two Dirrcl
-1 the orß 01 the Bank of Columbia > an<l are v4,ue<l at
1,, v» mere than half the amount ot the lottery.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
p i f § Tickets may be had at the Bank ot Colarti
>> hia ;of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter
f" Gilman, BoAob ;of John Hopktas, Richmond ;
" I and of Richard Wslls, Cooper's Ferry,
e not mw f
made
nber,
40 , ror bale,
s; on the Office of the Gazette of the United
>n the States, No. 119, Chelnut-llreet,
on 18 The laji Report of the late Secretary
' I 'y C of the Treasury; being ab. ief history of the
'■ j state of financial i-oncerns of the United States.
DdL The Proceedings of the Executive
of the United States refpe&ing the we/tern tn
gr. cumftances no where elle to be found. 50
[i cents.
The Letter of Mr. Pickering to
q our rainifter in France. 37 1-2 cents.
' An Account of the Receipts and
Expenditures of the United States for the year
or sale 1795.
mcnce A few copies of the volume for 1794 may
: books had to complete setts. _
: city D'lvernois' account of the Revo
'whcTe lut'.otyn Geneva, u i-i cents,
in may April 3.
.ottery
bythc Mr. Pickering's Letter to Gen.
, Pinckney.
lc pub- J
k, cer-
I, land, A few copies of the above mtcrefiing paper,
rty. ' may be had at the office of the gazette of the V
RAT. j nited States.
saw ""yU 5
, tea N
A FEW thefts of Imperial. Hyson Skin and
Souchong Teas of a fupenor quality for
sale a: the flore of the fublcriber, the north
west corner of ilarket and Third-streets.
Patent Shot.
ALSO,
A l,r»c CELLAR to be let at a very lo\» rent.
Enquire as above of RICHARD WISTAR.
April 29. ftu&thim
For Sale,
At this Office,
No. 119 Chefnutjlr-eet,
A few copies of a late Report of a Committee «
of the Senate, on thefubjeft of the
GEQ&GIA LANDS.
March 13 -
Wanted to hire,
In the city of Philadelphia or neighborhood,
A Malt-house and Brewery.
For fu.-ther particulars please apply; to th«
Printer hereof. '
May 5.
SWAN N'S
Riding Scbeol, Worfc Academy ly Infirmary,
Adjoining the Peblic Square, Market Street.
t. SWANN
' RETURNShis sincere thanks tothofe gentlemen by
" whom he has been employed. during bisiefider.ee in
3 this City, and llauers himfelf that the success of hit
i efforts, in the numerous, obflinate and dangcioas dif
- cases in Horses, in which he has been contulted, to
,, g ether with his moderate charges, will fecurc their
t future favors and recommendation.
n He now begs leave to inform them and the public
at large that his [pacious'and commodious peemifes,
, ere&ed for the purposes above deferibed are open for
tr,c reception of pupils of either lex, who with to be
e inftru£ted in the Ait of Riding, and the right method
of governing their horses, so as to ride them with
cafe elegance, a»d fafety—their horses will be carc
)• fully and expeditioufly broke, for every purpose.and
m made obedient to he will ot the riders ; the natural
e powers which are shut upin them, will be unfolded
k by art, calling forth unilormity ot motion, and giving
to that noble animal all those beauties of aftion which
r providence has so bountilully bellowed on them.
Alfo,at his hospital, every diforderto which the
111 horse is liable will be treated according to the rules of
art, confirmed by long and repeated experience,
e, The utility of the above inllitu'ion has never been
X, qhellioned, that it has long been wanted in this city,
>k gentleman's stud willmanifeft, and 1 . Sw a hn
as the ftrlleflablilber of tlieveterenary art, solicits and
1( j relies upon the support of tha- public (which he is
- ever anxious in fetving) to enable him to bring it to
perfe£lion. The idea of a (übfeription for •» at pur.
?' pofehas beeu hinted by levc-tal gentleman, who wilb
lls to promote the inftltution —the amount of each fub
of fcripiion to be rcturned"by lervices in any of the dc
partmentslhe profeffes, agreeable to the rate of charges
tiated in his hand bill. SuchHibfcription is now o
pen, and the figr.atures of many reipeflable gentlemen
already obtained. He therefore iojorms hi* fiiends
- and such Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has not
the honor of being known, that he Oiall in a few
days tahetbe liberty of waiting upo* them and solici
ting their support and protection.
N. B. Horses are properly prepared for those La
diesaud Gtntlemenwho with to be inftrufled..
Nov. 5. "h*f
f' Chocolate and Mustard
irs) Manufaftured as usual,
,o ' Ginger and Pepper ground
DOO Shelled or Pearl Barley
300 Bhiladeiphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cydtr
060 London Porter
000 Taunton and Burton Ale
000 Red Port and other Wines, eithc
ono or by the pipe, quarter-calk c* gallon—Taxable
000 I for exportation or home confuiuption
000 For Sale by
coo John Haworth.
,000 N0.98 south Ffent street.
000 May j8 {t '4 w
,000 ■ "
,000 NOTICE.
,000 JF JOSEPH WESSELS, formerly of London.
1 who came paffenger'in the fliip Fa£lor, to
Philadelphia, in the year 1794, a PP'y at
No. 197 Market-ftrcet, he will hear of lome
—— thing to his advantage. Any information re
,ooo fpeding him will be thankrully rccci V ed.
May 11 *
CLARET
OF THE
ith s. r Vintage of 1792,
tick- * n ca^es o): 14 anc ' 30 kottlea eac^»
FOR SALs BY
eno{ ' RUNDLE y LEECH,
ty of March 29 mwftf
cady -—' ' '
übli " An excellent Stand for Business,
fpo f . With Stuck fuitablc thereto.
hem, npHE fubferibers, aflignets of Joieph Meif
■6, ill L son, offer for Tale all the (lock of goods on
-lotel i hand, lately belonging, to faii MeifTon, conftft
, will ing of a great variety of liquors, groceries, &c.
irint- Any person wilhing to engage in bnilneis as a
irt of grocer, will hive an opportunity of purchaftog
)"i to tile whole of the retail flore on reasonable terms,
and can immediately get poflsffion of it, at the
[ the corner of Strawberry alley and Chelnut-llreet,
ire<S- w hich has been longknown as an excellent stand
at for that line of business. If not fold in ten
days, the whole of that, with a large qnatitity
of wines, St. Croix and New-England rem*
>lism- &c w im )e put up to public auction.
e ' tr For terms applv to
Dnd! ' David Walker,
wf Win. Buckley, or
Samuel Keith.
May 10 ®
nited _— <
far TO'BE RENTED,
f / And may be entered upon ai any time,
' e wellimprQvcd water worls
. JL on Brandywine, three miles from the town
j of Wilmington, in the state of Delaware j.
'n in- consisting ok
1 A large, convenient Slitting Mill,
In complete order, having fcreral pair of roll»
T tn and cutters of every iize.
3 A large, Stone Merchant MHI,
„„ ] Having three pair Viurr ftonss, boulting works,
corn kiln and every other necelTary apparatus.
?, " r A Saw Mill,
iv be 1 I" the best order, and a pair of timber wheels.
A Smith's Shop and Tools.
eVO- To accommodate these works there is 3 large
commodious stone dwelling house, kitchen and
waft) houie and a number of dwelling houfea
for workmen, with gardens adjoining ; two large
ftone Rabies, two stone coal houses, and a coop
er's (hop, with meadow and paflure grounds.
If thr tenant chufes he may have the oppor
tunity to purchase an excellent te-m of five hor
ses, waggon, coal carriages ami bed, with a
paper, lock of coal in the coal houses f.jffinest to mi
rhe U- three hundred tons of iron.—Apply to
RUMFORD & ABIJAII DAWES,
§ No. 7, S6Uth Water-ftrret.