of m sßnttCtS and Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1593.J
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales ,
For dnr gOO as. ,
r Foaenoon —Edward Fox, No. |
, j south Front-street, ,
Afternoon —Footman & Co. Mo. 65 1
V. South Front-ftieet. ]
Fort noon—John Connelly, Old City
» f , J Auflion, No. 73 fount Front-street. I
*vtj ay< ternoon —William Shannon, No. '
(. 183 High-street.
f Afternoon —Peter denfon, No. 74 ,
lVedjiefday ] fomh Third-ftrcet.
C Forenoon—Edward Fox.
J hu '-'**"* { Afternoon—John Connelly.
„ ~ 7 Forenoon —William^haniion.
I n day Afternoon—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon —.Peter Beni'on.
For CHARTErT"
On nioderate terms, to any port in Europe, ]
\ THE SWEDISH SNOW
Gll ft ;i fAdol p hz, \
Captain Rampe. i 1
Carries about 2COO barrels ot flour. For terms I
appiy 10 %
Peter Blight.
"Who intrnds Landing a quantity Jamaica Hum
and Sue ah, received Uy lhip A mitV , capt. Cook,
from Jaifiaica.
Oft 12. dim 1
For Freight or Charter,
THE GOOD BRIG |
S U K E Y, 1
.. Isaac Vredenburg, Matter ; (
lying at Clifford's whir', and ir. .ompleat ,
erdcr to receive a cargo. For terms pieafe to an- '
ply the Captain en board, or .
, John Slyrin,
No. 81, Arch-street.
WHO HAS FOR SALE, (
2000 wt. of double refined Saltpetre ,
600 wt. of F F Gun Powder i
300 barrels of Herrings
jo bulhels of Timothy Seed
150 cafe* of Claret, firft quality
And a quantity of Sherry Wine.
pt. a - dtf
HAVANNA SUGARS.
FOR SALR,
1400 boxes and calks prime white Hawn
na SUGARS,
On board the fcip Hamburgh Packet, Silas
Swain, Matter, now lying at Marcus Hook.
For terms, apply to Capt. Swain, on board, to
Capt- Samuel Smith, is Front, near Wal
nut street, or to
Philip Niekl'tn, & Co.
». Who offer the said Ship
Hamburgh Packet
SALE or CHARTER.
She U 310 tons regilter, coopered to the bends,
fails remarkably fall, and can be ready to re
ceive a cargo in a few daya.
Seftt-fct. daw
Antigua Rum,
JUST arrived at Wilmington, Delaware
State, and now landing trom on aboard the
Brig A.-live, William William*, Matter,
One hundred hhds. 3d & 4th^roof,
And for Sale by
Jehu Hull'thgfworth & Co.
Wilmington, Sept. 31. dtf
N. B. The above Brig,
the brig GAYOSO, are
wSw '4 also for Sa|e or Charter, and
now ready to raceive a cargo
on board, at Wilmington. Apply as above.
~ For HAMBURCh, ~
.- r-r-iHE Copper Bottomed Ship
1 I'AVORITE, John
Thompson, Miller, now at'
X'T'rffi'Wright's wharf, and will b« rea
-dy to take in on Monday uext,
part of her cargobeing engaged
xnd rei+y to go on board. Ihe (hip »lo well
known, that it is nesdlefs to dtlfcribe her. She
is now in compleat order. For Freight or Pas
sage, plea l f< to apply at Mr Jeremiah Warder's
Compting House, No. 11, North 1 laird II reet,
or to the Matter on bord.
August jo.
For SALE,
On board the said Ship, Svsedifh Iron, afTorted
Hollow and Window Glass, DemyjohiSs, Wrap
ping Paper for Sugar Refiners. Rugs of I & J
Quality. Please to apply!* above.
wf&m4w
~ forTsale,
Br FT AGNES in cases
German Checksin dp.
Cambrick
Plattillas
Oznahriys
Gold and silver Watches
Window Glass 10 by 8
Glass Tumblers in cases
Linseed Qil in calks, &c. &c.
George Pennock,
104, High-Street.
July .<■ 3"*
An elegant House in Arch Street.
TP be let and entered on immediately a large
and elegant house at the Corner of Arch and
Ninth Street. There are two drawing rooms
and one diniagroom—the largest is 31 feet by
96 —and two are so connected by folding doors
astomake but one. Also, five bed rooms, be
sides j- in the garret, well finifhed for servants.
There are stables and a coach house, with evry
convenience for a family. Enquire at No. 29,
in North Seventh street, or at No;"si8, Arch
Streat.
Aug- 15- aaw3w.
Chocolate and Mustard
Manufaflured as uflial,
Ginger and Pepper ground
Shelled or Pearl Barley
Bhiladelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder
London Porter
Taunton and Button Ale
Red Port and other Wines, eithe bottled,
er by the pipe, quarter-cask Or gallon—suitable
for exportation or home tonfumption—
For Sale by
John Haworth.
No. 98 south Front flrevt,]
PHILADELPHIA: TUESDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 17, 1797
To be Sold at Public Vendue, <
\( If not before difpoftd of at private sale)
/|N Friday, the full of Dec-mber next, at si*
W o'clock, in the evening, at the Merchants'Cot
fee House, in Philadelphia, Forty Thouiai'd Nine
Hundred and Thirty Ni«>e acre* of
now or hte in the Ct»un f y of Wdfhington, and Com
monwealth of - n the waters df
Frefii and Wh«ii»g Creeka and fen Mile Run.—
These Landt arc ferti e and weil timbered, and were
pitenteed early i*t except 3700 acres or therea
bouts, which were patented in 179 - , One iourth j
of the purchase money to be paid at the time of sale, c
for the residue a credit of one, two and three months, y
will be given, on interest and good security. ,
Oftober 6. 3awtS
To be Sold .jit Public Vendue,* \
(If not before disposed of at private sale) '
ON Friday, the ftrlt day of December, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Coffee
House, in Philadelphia, Twenty Six Thoufaud Set
vort Hundred and Eighty acres of LAND, 111 the
State t)f New.York, between the northern bounds
of Pennsylvania and the Su'quehanna, now, or late,
in the townftiips of Hamdcu and Warren, and coun
ty of Montgomery One fourth of the purchase
money is to be paid at the time of sale ; for the ic- 5
fidue a credit of one, two, and three months will be {
given, on intereß and good security. ]
Oftoae6 t
— THESUBSCRIBERS, •
ASSIGNEES OT JAMES GRESSLEAF,
"HEREBY give notice, that they have disposed ,
of the property assigned to them for the fecuriDg
the payment of the note-', acceptances, md en- ]
dorfetnents given }>y Edward Fox, for the use
ofthef.iid James Greenleaf; and theJioMers of
such notes, acceptances, and endorsements, are
hereby notifyed that the fchferibers. will fwtle
with them for the amount of their refp«<flive .
claims, both principal and iNTtattT, at
any time hrfore tfce *cth djy of next ■
after which dav. the bolder» not applying, will
be excluded, agreeably to the ttrmj of align
ment.
Applications to be made at south-east corner •
of Dock and Sccoitd streets (the Dock-ttreet
fide), between th« honrs of eleven and onto'
flock every day, Sundays excepted.
Henry Pratt,
Tio. W. Frtnc'u,
John Milter, Jun.
John AJbley,
% Jacob Baker.
Philadelphia, A»gt>ft 18, I???. d_
Window Glass,
0f Superior Quality, «nd ckesper tban any othe* in
1 he Sity—
OF VARIOUS SIZES,
From 8 by 6 to 19 by ■4,
By tft single Box or Quantity, maybe had at the
(lore of the Subscribers, corner of Arch and Fro»«-
ttre-t. jjfc
James C. h? Samuel W. Fijber.
Philadelphia, Juneq,
Red Port Wine.
Jutt arrived,tlie brig Iria, capt. Rhodes, from
Operto,
Red Port Wine in pipes,hhds. and quarter cafcs
£0 ewt. C«rk, fnr.Mc by
/ Philips, Cramond, & Co.
July *1- *
Will be Landed,
From onboslrd the lhip Artive, Capt.Blair,from
Pamhuigh,
so bales white Ruflia clean Hemp
a calks Clover Seed
For Sale by
Themes Herman Leuffer,
North rtfth flrtet, Nc. 34."
June i*. f
Young Hylon Vea.
40 chetts of a superior quality—Also,
100 do. of Hyson,
Imported in the Woodrop Sims, and for sale
the fubferiber, corner of Second and Pine
street.
C. Haight.
Jnnr 11. eotf
Cedar Shingles.
THE fubferiber has a quantity of 3 feet Cedar
Shingles of a superior quality, for sale at 13
dollars per thousand.
William Hallovoell, .
No. 193 North Third-Jlreet.
July 17. eoiit
Imported in the Jhip Pigou y
And for sale by John Morton, No. t T6, South |
Front-street,
Hyson
Hyson Skin ( TEAg
Young Hyson (
Imperial )
April 20. ,
Imported in the latest arrivals from
Amsterdam and Hamburg, 'and for sale by
B. J. Bohlen,
A large assortment of fine French Cambrics,
Platillas Kuflia indDutch sailcloth
Brittannias Writing, pott, and' print-
Rouanes ing paper
Brown Holland Dutch calf flcins
Checks and ftripss Prime madder
Ticklenburgs Shell'd Barley
Oznahurgs Looking glalTes
1 White Iheetings Hollow glafe ware
r Diaper Slates
i Brown rolls Coffee nvtlls
Umbrellas Brass kettles
. Hair ribbons Scythes and straw knivts
' Black and white laces Toys assorted in boxes
, Belt Holland Gin in pipes
1 London partioular Madeira Wine '
July 14. mftthtf
Excellent Bourdeaux Brandy
Ditto ditto Claret in cases
Just received, and for Sale "by
Rundle & Leech.
An?. 21. lawtf
r Mrs. G RATTAN
INFORMS her friends,and the public in general,
that her house, No. 192, Market-street, will con
tinue open during the fieknefs. -
c Board and Lodging in a l'eparate room, ten
dollars, in'a double room, lioht dollars.
For the convenience of those gentlemen who
have not thoir families in town, Mrs. Chattan
will receivej;entlenicn to dine at half a dollar
a day. Argnjt 29.—6t
By John Fenno, N°* il9 Chefnut Street,
Choice St. Croix Sugar and Rum
Coffee
Madeira and Teneriffe Wine r
For Sa ! c by °
James Turd y
No. —, South n
OA. f). diw f
CUSTOM-HOUS£; f
Philadelphia, Sept. ltd, 1797- [
THE Merchants who atAhis time prefer hsv- "j
ing their yeHel* and Merchandize entered and I
cleared at Chester or Marcus Hoclc, —are here- I
by notified, That in compliance with their de- -
fire, and upon a full conviiftion that the measure
will fie mutually beneficial to them and to the '
United States. i"he colleilor of the cuftomshas J
made arrangements to efiahlifh for some time
branches of the custom-house at those places,
where every accommodation in his power will „
be given to the merchants. dlw
~TO BE SOLD, ~ '
And immediate puffeffion given,
A Convenient well finifhed Brick Tenement, '
with a cook house andoftier nut houfes,fiti- 1
atcd in a pleasant part of the borough of
ton, in the State of Delaware—The lot of ground '
has forty fret front on We!l-#reet, and extends '
through the fquarc to .Pafture-llTeet, on which is '
creeled a liable and carriage honfe.
ALLEN M'LANE. j
Wilmington, Aug: ?o.
Lately Publiftied,
In <tnc vol. 8 vo. (price one dollar in boards) fold
by WILLIAM YOUNO, corner of Second and
Cliefnut streets,
A Colledlion*of Papers on the fubjeel of '
Billious Fevers, prevalent in the United
'States for a few years past. _
Compiled hy NOAH WFBSfER, fun. 1
Co.itaiuing leiter.from ,SSiitb,
Buel, Taylor, Ramfty, Monfon, 'Rt-ynolds, Mitch
ell,on contagioa, &c &c.
Sent. it. Ct
■ ' ' 1 '" " -t I
City Commijjioners Office,
August 39, 1797.
IN purfuanci of an Ordinance of the Select and j
Common Councils, passed the aid day of May last.
Propefals in writing will be received hy the City
Commiflioners for one month from the ifl of Sep
tember next, for letting to rent on leafee for one
year to commenet the firft day of January next, the
Following public property of the city—
Th« wharf and landing on Vine Street,
Also on Saffafras,
Mulberry,
And High Streets,
Chefnut and Walnut Streets, Braw Bridge, witk
th« Scale and Fi(h Houfts, Spruce, Pine and Cedar
Streets.
The cellar under the City-Hall.
The Tavsrn at the middle ferry on Schuylkill,
with the lots contiguous thereto, (except so much
thereof asfhall be occupied by any buildings erect
ed for the use of the ColleAorof the Tolls, or be
lieceflary for the toll-gates.)
Ang. 3 4 Jtawim.
LOST,
ON the PalTynnk Road, between the Blue Ball
and the a Fowling Piece, with a brass
barrel and filvtr fight ; on the plate of thrbutt are
the letters " Jamaica, 99" —and on the barrel
near the lock " London" andtheTower lamp.
Whoever will return the aid piece to John BennarJ,
atthefign of the Blue Ball on the Paflyunk Road,
or the office 6f thisGaaette, {ball receiva a reward
of Four French Crowns,
Sept. 11. *3«
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT agreeably to an a<3 of Cosgrefs of the
United States of America, palfed at Phila
delphia, the 18th day of May, 1796 i laying du
ties on Carriage", for the conveyance of perfonp,
whi&h flialj be kept by or for any person, for his
or her Own use, or t" let out to hire, or for the
conveyance of palfergers, the several dutie* and
rates following, to wit:
For and upon every Coach, IJ dols.
upon every Chariot, 12 dols.
apon every Pofl Chariot, Ij dols.
upon every Poll Chaise, n dol-.
upon every PUaetoa.with ar without top,
9 dols.
upon every Coachee, 9 dols.
upon other Carriages, having pannelwork
above, with blinds, glafles or eurtains,
9 dole.
upon feur wheeled Csrriages, ha.ing fra
med polls and topi with steel springs, 6
dols.
■pon four wheeled Carriages, with wood
eiyir iron fprinjs or jacks, 3 dols.
upon Curricles with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chaises with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols.
upou other two wheel topcarriages, 3 dols_
upon two wheel carriages, with steel or
iron springs, 3 dols.
For and upon all other two wheel carriages, 1 dols.
upon every four wheeled carriage, htving
framed polls and iops, and relling up
on wooden spars, 1 dols.
The Collectors of the Revenue for tho firft Sur
vey of the OiftriS of Pennsylvania, will attend
daily, until the 30th day of September n<!xt, lor
the purpose of receiving the duties on Carriages, at
Germantown ; at the house of Daniel St. Clair,Kfq.
| in the Connty of Montgomery ; and at the house
of James Chapman, Esq. in the County of Bucks ;
of which all perfonspoffeffed of such Carriages are
desired to take notice.
Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dif
tillfd fpirituoos liquors, that licences will be grant,
ed to them ; one licence for carrying on tho busi
ness of retailing of Wines, in a ltfs quantity, or
in less quantities than thirty gallons—and one li
cence for carrying on the s>ufmcfj of retailing Spi
; rituous liquors in less quantities than 30 gallons, at
the fame time and at the fame places, by the offic
ers legally authorised to grant such licences.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
InfpeSor of the Re venire of the firll fui
vey of tHe Diftri&of Pennsylvania.
Office ol Infpeiftion at
Germantow, lath Sept. 1797- S
imported ;.>•
In th« lhip America, James Ewing, mallet, froitt
' Hamburgh,
Brown Hollands
JV'lutc Platillas
Ticklenburgs
Coarfc Linens
t Tapes
Looking Glafles } j n
5 Glass Tundilcrs J
TO* SAtI «*
, George Pennock.
A*guK (4, 3 aw
11
Philadelphia, OS. 13.
FHE fubferiber? inform their Crif-ncSj and cu!io- >
mer» in town :it»d cour.try, that their (lores arc now
opAi in the city, and othurs are oai'y oper.'ifg, and
that from the present appearaoce ai the prjvailing
disorder have rruion ti> i»»po, their fri-jr.ds nv,y
ihortly come -o the city- with perff.S sis ty. By j
fevcral late arrivals, numbers have rectived frefc _
supplies of GOODS. n
Robert Smith Co. P. TV. GaUauiei C®. g
John Davii & Co. Sitgreapes & French, j j
Neill Smith, Gtorge Dobfon, q
tViltierger and Smith, Thomas liyerfon, , %
Alex Bitjland and Co. T. R. Hardcnbcrg, C
yafob Spfry a. id Co. John Smith und Co- A
Owen Sj 1 Jona. Jenes, Thomas Orr, (■'
I tppele (if Zantziygdr, J Villi am Baritr iff Co.
Jidifbi 7,antx,:r,ge>, Thomas Arntat & Son. ft
John Frifs\ J- Miller, jtm. ar.d Co. It
oa. n- V
Boston Glass Manufactory.
citizens of United States are heteby
informed, that the mapufa&uro of Window
Glass is now commenced at the Gill's House in Buf
fcon.
It i» nea\lefs to fay any thing of excellent G
quality of Bofton Glass, as it is so well known ti
thi'ouohoat tnc United States to be in every refpe& S
greatly superior to uriy ever imported from Kuropc. u
k will be Cut to any size commonly
may be constantly had by applying to Charles F. ft
Kupper, at the Glass House. u
Orders from the dijjant States to be to li
Mr. Samuel Gore, COurt-street, Boston. p
Boston, Sept 30, 1797 O 4 —laws\y
Mfejjrv. Tinby and Mafort, Charlejtor? ; AJtJfrs.
t/odgi and Bnvlajt, Halifax, M. C. Alejfrt. iVillett
and O'Connor, rlorftli ; Jtfr. Ellis Pries, Alexandria
yitjfrs. Yll nit and Brown, Baltuxor« ; J\'lr. Hopkins,
Wcw-YorX ; a/id JWcffa. Httdfin tU* Good-win, Nart~
ford; Mr. Sey/xour, Sdvan/iui ; art reqiiejled to insert
the about onec a "wtck 6 uteris, the act, junto to b* for
-varied to the Ediiur.
MR. L AILS ON,
WITH an intention to render service, and unde
ceive those Performers, who duriKghis abfeuce Mr. j
Jaymond has thought proper to engage, thinks it
would be wrong itrhim not to inform those that
are engaged, that itiswithou his approbation,and
that he will not be in any way answerable for Mr.
Taymend's engagements.
PHILIPPE LAILSON.
Alexandria, Sept. IJ, 1 797* 6t. t
At a Meeting of the Board of "
Property, June 6, 1797, I
Prefcnt John Hall, Sea'ry. ' 1
Francis Johntton, R. G. > oflandoffice c
Dan. Brodhead, S. 0.) *
Nicholas Bettinger, <
Versus y '
Samuel Cunningham, j I
In this cafe the proof of service of notice be
ing inefficient, Itisordered that notice begiv- J
cn in one of the Philadelphia and York newfpa- J
peri weekly, for at lealt eight weeks to the J;
heirs or assignees of Samuel Cunningham de- ;
ceased, to atttend the board on the firft Monday
in November next, o Ihew cause why a patent ,
feould net ifliie to . Nicholas Bettinger for the
land in question. ,
(A tru: Copy.) 1
JOHN HALL, ■ ,
Secre;ary of the Land Office. ,
Aug. 15. *iawßw. ||
From Marseilles.
THE CARGO
Of the Swedish barque Quftavus Adolphus, from
Marseilles, cor,lilting of the following articles,
iidifcharglng at Mr. Latimer's wharf, and for
sale by the fubferiber*
BRANDY, well flavored, of a, 3 & 4th proof
Claret, in hogQteids
Ditto, in cases
Fromigniac Wine, in cases of 30 bottles
Olive Oil; of a superior quality, m balketi of 6/
and li bottles
Capers
Olives
Aimcnds
Dry Veriligreafe
Writing Paper
Umbrellas (Silk-J of 28, 30 and 31 incites
Taffetics
Long and Ihort white Kid Gloves for Women
Silk Stockiogs
Handkerchiefs, in imitation of Madtafi
Artificial Flowers and Garlands
Ostrich Feathers ,
Ribbons
Perftunery
Scented Hair-Powder and Pomatum
Manna in forts
Cream Tartar.
BENJAMIN MORGAN &
KOBERT ANDREWS.
September 27. eotf
At the Federal Blast Furnace,
In Carver —for Slitting, Platting, and Rolling
%1 I LIS.
SEYMOUR'S Patent Rollers.
THEIII superiority conjijls in being free from
boles and honey-combed. places, mhich are com
monly found in rollers cajl in sand, or clay
I moulds. Thrft patent rollers are cajl in iron
. moulds, prcvtoujly heated, and will be found to
; be mare dense, solid and durable than any rollers
heretofore used. Another important advantage
they ■ have over others, is, that the necks require
; no turning, but are immedaitely fit for use, and
; from their accuracy, run with less friSiun, and
require less water to make them perform their
work. 1 hey may be hat by application to the
Patentee in Plymouth, of Gen. Nathaniel Good
win, or of \MeJfrs.Tbatcher and Hayward■
Boston, Aug. 31. Sept. 19 §f~t.
This Day is Publifked,
BY MfcfT. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Ric % and the
other Book fellers, r
Price <®ne Dollar and twenty,five cents,
Elegant y printed on IVove paper, and Hot
preffed,
By John Thoropfon,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
1 The Constitutions
Of tho several States with each other, and with
that of the United States! exhibiting in Tallies,
tt the promin»nt features of eaeh Constitution, and
clafling together their rnoft important provision*,
under the several heads cf adniiniftration ; with
Holes andObfervations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
1 Of SutAh Carolirfa,
L L. D and member of the Cosigrcfs of the
United States.
Dedicated t&f tho People o! the United States.
N. B A few Copies prin'.'idoa an inferior pa
per, at 3'4thsof a doltir.
februarj6 !tv ' t
IVOLVJUB xy.
Thomas Herman Leuffer, .
Nt>rth Vifth ftrect, corner of North alley, No. 34,
HAS FOR SALE,
XCI-.^I.ENTrod liourdeaux Wine in cases and
li boxes, fix yeavs old
White Graves Wine in c.i»
Ticfelen'nurgs
P.uffia Sail Cloth*
Ravens Duck
B»jT Linui '
HefTiant ,
Diaper and Table Cleth
Empty I; | <
Ceamoß German Cloth
• J - n assortment of black coloured Ribbw^
Fine German Laces \
About twelve tons Russia clean Hemp
fclover Seed
Itsliaa S<iap, in fmsllbotee, for family uf#
Window Glass Au? sg*»w
"THIS DAY WAS POrtIJSHSI),'
And for file by 7HQ MAS UOBSUN, at the
Stone House, No. 41, south Second flreet,
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR.,THE JUVHNILE BUDGET OPENED-
Consisting .ofa variety of Mifacllaueous Pieces sots
the mfcruilion and «aiufement of YOUNG PER
SO N S—Six Volumes handfom tly printed and bound
up iQ two Volumes, price Two Dollars.
The variety and excellence of thefo pieces are
fuchythat the book need# only to be known fobs
uuiverfally esteemed one of the most valuable pub
lications th t can be put into the l|andi of young
persons.
" Delightful talk to rear the tender
To teach thFyouug idra how to Ihoot,
To pour the frefh liiftruflion o'er the mind,
To breatheth' enlivening fpirit,and to tix
The generous pnrpofe in tbeghjwmg brqaft.'*
TnoMsow.
August 24. mwf4vr
TMISO aY IS PUBLISHED,
By THO MAR DOBBON, at the Stone House,
No. 41, south Second flreet,
Letters and CoftverfatioiiG,
Between fevcral Toung Lcifiee, on improving and in
teretting filbje&s.
Trar.lhted from the Dutch of Madame, A Camhtn
with alterations and improvements,
Printed anJin t paper, aod neatly hound,
Price one dollar.
AM IDST the tide as modern Romances, patnKrg
tales «f extraordinary distress, or of dafperata or
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," and
which it would be far the honor of young ladies to
be ignorant of, this little book caruas forward to so
licit notice, where in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds of real life, the proper, bseaufx
elegant and natural dignity and importance of the Female
character is exhibited in an interefling point of view,
and presents examples of real and attainable excel
lence.
The publiftier was fomuch pleafedwith the
sal, that he was pcrfuaded he should do a plea£n£
service to the community by fending it in o circu
lation. August i4—mw4W_
To MaJUts Md Pilot* bringing »J> Pijfijr
from Fertign Ports to this Git).
VTTHexesu sundry ieftingemtnts have lately been
VV made on the law sos this Hate for the pro*
venting pe&ilential or infe&ions diseases, either
from ignorance or inattention thereto, it is tho't
expedient at this time to jiohiifli the following ex
tracU from the laws of aid April, 1794, ;ch and
Bth factions.
HEALTHIoFFrCE.
June 6th, ryf4:
Extra& of an all for feettring the city and port
of Philadelphia from the mtroduSion of pefii
lential and contagious di[tofts.
Sect. 7. And be it further enjfled, that every
matter or captain of any ship ot vessel ooming from
fca (velTels aSuxlly employed in the crtaftuig trade
racepted) and btrand to any port or plaec withm
the jurifditftionof Pennfylvania.ffia 1 cause his illijs
or vaiiel to be brought to anchor,or othertvife flay
ed in the stream of the river Delaware, oppefit# to
the Health-Olllce on State-Maud aforefaid, and
there Co remain until he ffiall have duly obtained a
certificate or bill of heal h from the Refldcnt Phy
sician. And il, previeufly taobtaining fuoh certi
ficate or kill of health, any matter or captain ihall
fuffcrhUfhip or vessel to approach nearer than the
said Health-Office to the city of Philadelphia, or
(hall land, cause or fuffer to be landed, or brought
on (hore, at any place or port Within this Cora
mim wealth, or at any other port or place, with the
intent of being conveyed into this Commonwealth,
any person or persons, or any goods, wares or mer
chandize, or, if after receivings such bill of health
or certificate, he shall neglcdl or rcfufe to deliver
the fame to the Health-Qfllcer, such matter or cap -
tain (hall forfeit hi p -y, for each and every such
offence, thFfuraof rrve hundred dollars.
And the captain or matter of every (hip or ves
sel Ihall fend a fafe and commodious boat to bring
the physician on bbard, and shall in like manner
convey him back to the Health-Office, after he ha*
concluded his official examination ; And while be
it making such examination, or in rase any fubfty
quJnt examination by the Heal.h Officer or Con
futing Physician, agreeably to the directions of
this aift, the matter or captain (hall expolc ar caula
to beexpofed to thefearch of the Reiident Phyfi
cia/l.or of the Health Officer and Consult ng Phyfi
' cian (as the cafe tfiay be) eash and every part of ths
< (hip or / vessel, and (hail present to hi., view etch
» and every person or perfor.« on board thereof, and
t and (hall also true and fatisiaitory answers malse
? to all such queftiorls as the Rcfident Physician, &c.
. at the time of examination (hall aflc relative to th«
I health of any port or place frem which the (hip of
I vessel failed, or has flnce touched at—jhe numbe*
■of persons on board when the (hip or vessel entered
. on her voyage—the nusiber ot persons that have
flnce been landed or taken on board, and whe*
and where refpe<3ively—-what persons on board—
s they have been during the voyage, or (hall, at
the time of examination, be infected with any pefr
tilentialor contagious disease—-and what is the pre
-1 [etft date and condition of the persons op board
c with relpedt to their health or diseases. And it
any matter or captain (hall refufe to expose as afore
aid, to the search of any of the officers aforefaid,
n if he lhall sonseal'any sick person, or in any other maa
j/r deceive the proper officers aforefnid in lis anliveri y
uch captain or matter, for every such offence, shall „
forfeit :».id pay the sum of fjvk iiukdred Dol
lars.
Sect. 8. And if asy person or persons whatfo
h ever (the Resident Phyficisn, &c. excepted) (hall
s, rr o on board aiiy vessel, befere the matter thereof
d has received a certificate of haalth in the manner
s > direiSed, every person so offending, lhall pay the
hum of ONX HBNDHED DOLLARS
IT beiiig'abfolutely necessary that the foregoing
feclions Cnould be puntSually corn-plied witi,, tht
:e fltfjftriher, in compliance with his duty, mutt ex
a& ti rigorous otftrvar.ee jtf the fame, or else b«
under vhe aecciTuy of putting the laws in fores.
Wx. ALLEN, Health Officer 0f tia
Put of Philadttphia, *
J»Hy 14,■ PHILADELPHIA,
5 TVF.SOAT F.rXNLVG, OGrogSR 17.
■
Health Office, Oft. 9, 1757.
" That th<; cSnfulting and v'-
£ting phyficiatis be infomed, that the Board
Live i.t in contemplation to publtlli on Mon
ti iy next, and on every Monday following,
during the prsfent calamity, a state ofthe
health ot the City and Liberties, including
the public Hdfpital: they therefore request
I the coufulting and visiting physicians to fur
i ilifn us particular a return aspolfible of the
patients under their care, who art alFcdted
| with the prevailing fever."
r iillfalth Office, Oft. 16, 1797. '*■
The Board ot Infpedtors having for the
information of their (by the
foregoing resolution of the 9th inft.) called
0:1 the physicians connciSted with the Hqalth
Officer fqr a state of the Hospital, .md a ge
neral ilateof the sick under their care. The
following is the result.
Do&ors Dufiield and Stevens, consult
ing physicians, state", that there are now in
the Hospital Fifty-four patients, thirty-two
of whom are affected with the prevailing fe
ver, and Twenty-two are convalescents
Poftors Church, Coxc and Lei'b, visit
ing physicians, state, that since the 9th
6 inft. they have been called to Ninety-one
patients, 1 wenty-five of whom have been
ier:t to the hospital, four have died, twenty
eight arc convalescents, the remainder'(till
id ; most of those patients were in the low
er part of the city and Southwark—five on
ly in thi* Northern Liberties.
The Infpettors of the Health-office at
an -early period of the prevailing fever, re
commended to the indisposed, an immediate
application for medical a:d, the Infpeftors
\ lament that this recommendation has not
been generally attended to—the sick and
those who have the care of them, ftiould
epnfi.ler that even one day's delay may be at
tended with lerioud cohftquences- From
thls cause the mortality has probably been
much incrtafed in the city and liberties, but
most certainly in the hospital, where many
have been admitted in the lift ftajre oP the
difcafe.
Published by order of the Board,
WM. MONTGOMERY,
Chairman pro t*m.
The Phifadelphia, Atfwn, and 7 ucltrton
MAIL STAGE.
rHE proprietors leg lta-or to irform tie public, that
t/j/y e rfhiblrfbed a Stage between Philadelphia,
Atftcn, Hampton, SpeelweU, and Martha Fur'
nace, IVadhng 'pi'oer flitting mill and the town of Turf*
erton, in TSeir-Jerfey, to.go orr.t a week, and are provi*
ded with I !>erfir, a cow fori able carriage, and a tare
ful driver, for tbf conveyance nf the mail, passengers, and
goods. The Stage nil? fart every Tburfday, at 10
0 c ock, A. M. from Aft . Daniel Cooler's Ferry, and
lodge that night at foel Bodine's, as Longacoming ; and
on orf at 6 o x clock, P. M.. arrive at Ctlek E
Vanj'k, inheefer, in Tucker ton * dijiant from the city S4
miles, (from tie Atlantic 6, and from the F.af Groufmg
'Plains 7 miles/ nvbere are goei accommodation t for tra
veller s % end where ate commodious and fafe passage boats I
pravin'ed /•» ennvey fa/fingers to Capt. William War
rington's bcufe, on Tucker s IJland, adjoinining the At
-lat tic, where are aeconmo4at\prts y and a convenient
place to bathe ; the fportfqian ti'bo ivijhet to regale. himfelf
tsith few liny andjijhinfi, may at this place be highly grs
tifLi' there being at aim of every fcafin of the year foxol
andffo it abundance.—The Stage an its return, farts
from the aforefiii C Evans's in Tucker ton, every Tuef
£day. at 6 ('civci, A. As brexkfajls at John Bodine's, at
Wading R ver Bridge, lodge that night at Longacoming,
and at l o'clock, P. JU. on Wfdnefday, arrive at the
aforesaid Cooper's Ferrym It is presumed that no route of
an equal difance 'will be less expenftve Or ftrnijh the tra
veller ivitb a greiiter variety of amusement y as be in ill
not only have a pleasant fail to tie atlant.c from Tucker• ,
ton, but have the euriojfty of feeing on the rosd thither a ,
number of capital- furnaces and forges, and one flitting ,
mill, in complete order, and at work ; gentlemen, too, rvhf j
are owners, or faSlors, of any of the aforefjid iron works, j
are solicited to encourage and support this sage (by wh V> 4
they can he so well accorrnno>la'ed) the continuance f tvbicb
will much depend on their aid. The rates of passengers 3
and baggage are as flloivs : For a passenger from the j
afore fa id Dar iel Cooper's Ferry to Tuckerton, including (
14 lb of hdggage. Two Dollars ; for way passengers
Per mile. Four Cents—lso lb. of baggage rtjual to a pas
fenoer. Poßage of letters, newspapers, tSV. will be
agreeably to law.
N. B. The mail crosses from the Old Ferry. ( -
THO MAS WARDLE W Co. I
Tuclerton, Sept. 18. larvtf (
The Norfolk Mail STAGE.
THIS Stage ftam from the GEORGE Tavern, r
at the corner of Second and Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, cv- ry Tuesday, Thursday, and Satur- f
day, at 3 o'clock, in the n orning ; arrives at
vqr the firft day, at Snowhill the second day, at (:
Northampton Court House the third day, and on i
the morning of the fourth day the passengers find c
a fafe and eomfortable packet to convey th«m to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves for Northampton feiry,
every ThurHay and Saturday, and the F
Stage starts from this ferry so/ Philadelphia, every j
Wcdnefday and-Friday j'putsup at Sncyvv j
Hill the firft ni£tot, at Dover the ad night, and ar-> r
rive« In Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day. ' F
Thediftance on this rsute, between Philadelphia >
and Norfolk, i« Jo milei less than on any stage route t
between those placet
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road, f
which is most excellent indeed. The proprietors
willingly engage to return the whole fans to any e
paflengtr, who, after having performed thi» route, \
•will fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the fame 1
distance, so good a road in America. {
Anguft ti. dini.eotf.
Th« Medical Ledtures i
In the Univrrfity of Penniylvania, are '
poned until tile la!t in November e
next. t
rc Oiflober 14. aay>-4w c
The Health-Office e
IS removed to th« City-Hall, and is Ijgpt open t
night and day, where persons having basin fs may
apply. W.M. ALLEN, Health-Officer. Q
Sept. 4. dtf ,
No rIC £7 p
THE Offices of the Department of War are for
the«p£cifcnt removed near to the falis of the Scuyl- 1
kill, on the Ridge Road.
September 4. dtf >' r:
- .
Public Notice is hereby give-;, ' "
THAT the Cotumiflioners for the Djftriit of ,
Southwark h'-ivs removed their hall to the house
formerly occupied by Samutl Gofl", in ChriiW-.tn at 'g
the corner of Fittb ttrees. Oil. 2. e)
Xijc ©ajette.
PHIL AD EL PHIJ,
, TUI'.SDAY EVENING, October 17.
Aurora in on the nep*o
ci'ation at Lisle between, France and Great
?' Britain pbferves, " Happy will it be for
le our country if it breaks ofF, for then France
S will the mote readily accommodate matters
with us"—As much as to fay, that right and
r " j»Ji" have nothing to do in the adjustment
,of the finTerenfes between the two coun
•d tries, so far as refpedsthe conduft of France.
4fhii is an avo\val which wa6 hardly to be
expedted on the jiart of the faaion, who
l? haVe always advocated the eaufc of that na
tion in oppofitioa to the intereftt of the
;cl United States.
:h _
c " Portrait of a Democratic-Republican Sena
,e tor—by a mtujltr
The Aurora speaking of the late eleftion
of a senator fays «' it is a circumstance alcr jft
ln unprecedented"—and '• that the republican
0 candidate Israel Israel is one of those
e- democrats nmft obnoxious to the fadtion ;
vice-president of the deqjocratic focietv, an
t- enemy to the prominent features of the'fede
ral government, in a word, according to the
'e indufti ions calumnies of his adversaries a
n dilorganizer, a bloody jacobin, a fomenter
the western infurredtion, every thing in
II politics th tis vile and violent." So much
for negative qualifications— now for pofi
-- .live—.He is, continues the Aurora, " a
plain man, of natural good sense, poflefTcd
t of none of those brilliant attradtions which
:- | a polished education gives. But he was the
e champion ehofen foi the occafioa by the de
s mocrats.; that was enough, he met their
t support, and has been carried into the legif
d lature against the utmost exertions of their
d adversaries in favor of B. R. Morgan ; a
young man who has been constantly inpub
-1 lie life, the foul of the party in the senate ;
1 a person of hqndforfie acquirements, and as
t a man equally refpeftable with Ifravllfrael."
Surely, as the hxifbandman said of the tares
s among his wheat, so may the democrats fay
of the writer of the above, an enemy hath
Jane this.
" Did you not moralize this fad fpeSaele K*
Oh ! no : we were busied in better fp?culation«,
and did not find time to reflefl that the awful visi
tation which ft ill lingers over our demoted heads,
was not ordained without by that being
without whose notice not a -sparrow falls to the
ground.
In the old world, the Almighty hath ehofen to
visit with revolution and murder, a land long pr«-
■ eminently 'dillinguifhed as a " gay feat of mirth
and ease," luxury ind rev.lry, and riot, debauch
ery, and eoiruption. and every species of abomina
tion. And this modern crowd •( Sodoms and
r Gomorjahs now fjnarti under his avenging hand
daily ripenirg by accumulating ignorance and athe.
, ism, and new infulti continually heaped to the af
toni 1 cd fit ies, for that lad tremendous crash which
shall hurl into ncn-emity the filthy mass of far s
ealottifm. "Do we not moralize this fad fpedta
ele ?" Oh ! no ; for, drunk with the new wine of
modern philosophy, we are daily inporting from
this land of blasphemy, the feeds of death and
patriots, «f the new growth, who know not vir
tue nor honerty, are exalted to the high pod of 1
honor, in (lead «f that of forty cubits whereon di
ed an ancient enemy of the Jews.
And is tty» the course whereby we seek to fliun
the chaAifemcnt of an avenging God ? Shall we
behold the hand of the Lord, avenging himfelf '
upon iniquity in a foreign land, and must we seek
to fhiin ourfbareof ehaflifement, by aping thofo ,
crimes and importing those blaiphemies which in
duced there the (hadening rod ? " ]
If the Almighty, in pmiilhment for our iniqoi ]
tits, "and the apathy wherewith we have looked on I
the flrugglc. of the faithful, hath ehofen, by visit ,
mg us with peflilrnte, fire or famine, to exempt
us from those othir more terrible fesurges, revolu
tion, atheism and jacobinism, comparatively for - '
tunate will have bien our lot. But if, while we (
fmart.uader the lash of pedileoce and fire, we give 1
loose to wild and demoniac debaucheries, surely a |
double eurfe will be our lot.
Let us, then, moralize this fad fpe&aele; and by
a right train of"reflexion, and an aSive and ufe
ful improvement, turn our energies to the meant
ot warding off the desolating Ihock.
TIMON. J
2
The faftipn which has so long disgraced ,
our country by its publications in the jaco- p
bin gazettes, continues itslaold and abandon- c
ed attacks on our independence and felf r
government. In the Aurora,of th* 14th t
inft. we find a frclh inltance of perfidious .
counsel. Encouraged by the success of for-' a
mer propositions and hints to the French c
govern ment, by which the United States f
have fuffered so severely, a new idea is thrown s
out by these internal traytors in the follow- {
ing terms, the impudence of which is exceed- ;
ed only by its folly. 1
From the Aurora. c
" But little reliance, we think, is to be
placed on the generality of the French in ad
justing the terms of accommodation. We v
have given them a leflon of thejiolly of {-
national gratitude, genero/ity, is'c. they will ;
profit by it. But we may expedt justice n
from them. In their terms of adjustment E
they will throw the burden on those who
gave them the blow. The federalilts of a
the ,east may look to their tonnage and fifh- v
eries. Perhaps the French Weft-Indies t
will be thrown open for the importation of t
Virginia and other wheat in French or I
southern bottoms; so of rice, and of tobac
co for the supply of their continental pofTef- p
lions. Such a regulation would be less dif- t
liked to the south and much more so to the ,
east, than the 70 ton article in the British r
treaty. Other regulations equally benefi- v ,
cial to the southern and injurious to the
eaftem states may be adopted by them„and t;
this they can do by, or without treaty. n
They can also lay such a duty on the fifh b
of the Ealtern Itates as to oblige them to f (
keep much of it at home which is new im- a
ported. \
Our federal and yankee president, and fe
deral and yankee chief justice ; all ourfede- b
ral yarikees, and yankee federalilts, would v ,
think this very ill, not to be treated by the ft
French as if they were friends. But will /
they go to war, because the French chufe to /,
grant an exdufive advantage to their foyth- 0
era brethren ? They will cot be so ungtne- b
- I rous, or unjust. Yet, tlx? iSduftrious, New-
England men need not fufer by fifth an. ar
rangement. He can move with his capital
I to Virginia, enrich himfclf, ani that state by
his industry, convert it to federal
I come a democratic republican himielf.
I Perhaps We (hall however- hear as much
I noise, (hould the French make this diferim-
I inatiort between eaftc-rn and southern states,
or I as took place when they made a diftinftipn
ce I between the people and the executive ; tho'
™ I that lucky and just diftinflion saved us from
1 I tbe horrors of war. But what then ? The
nt I French can surely grant favours to whom
n " they please, aad none have a right to take.
e - oiTeijpt in not (haring in them, provided
3e I they receive no injury. A division of the
10 Union would then once more be broached
a " by the federali/Is of the east. Butrfhey may
le quiet their heartburnings by persuading
I their friends, the Britim7 to open to them
I their ports in the Weft-Indies on the fame
I terms that tbe French may chufe to grant
to the foutherri states. This they can rea
dily do, as the British are not at all attached
' I to an increase of their navigation."
fe From the (New-Tori) Commercial Gazetit.
> j The following extrafts from a French
n I in answer to Paftoifet, will (hew
=" j what opinions are entertained >n France, re
le I United States. In answer to
a j the objeftions darted against a rupture with
■ r France, the writer fays » The United
" j States have no marine force—fcarcely can
I their revenue cutters, armed with a mulket,
check the clandestine trade—Congress, two
j I years ago, directed thirteen frigates to be
° I Jjuilt, and not one is launched. Their bed
marine officer, commodore Gillon,
e dead two years—their other sea and land
~ I officers have an honorable sentiment -of at
.r tadnunt eternal to France. Mod of the mas
" I ter» of their vtfTels are intrepid, but not well
I (lulled ; bold, but addidled to drong liquor.
a I The revolted colonies formerly could uot»
' have maintained their independence, but by
! the land and sea officers furni(hed them by
» the French' government, and by the purchaf#'
of veflels and ammunition in 4775 in France
5 —by France declaring war against England
r in 1778—by the support of her fleets, the
J transport of her armies, thejunftion of Sp«n
and Holland, to the holy coalition against
against the British Leopard. Tn (hort, they
are indebted much for their independence, to
'• j the unpardonable fault of Burgoyne and
Cornwallis, or of their indrudlioni, which
r required them to advance their armies in
• land, indead of menacing and scouring the
I eoadt.
' No sooner wa» their independfence ac
-1 I knowledged, than their regular troops were
■ di(banded—their forts levelled and dedroyed
' I ~—The forts on the fca board were rebuilt
I ,n '794> they confid only of simple re-
I doubts of light ejirth, very easily dedroyed,
I and whose cannon can serve no purpose but
to fire evening and morning guns, falutcs,
I and to celebrate the (houts of liberty.
I In the year 1794 (amidake for' 93) the
I yellow fever ravaged in Philadelphia; in 1795
I fijes dedroyed the one half of the marine
I cities. The coWinet of St James maintains 1
j constantly in America, a horde of incendi- ]
j aries, as it keeps in pay ,in France, cut- '
I throats, chasseurs, emigrant and turbulent I
prieds. Every tide wafts from Europe a
convoy of emigrants, dedined to the western i
I parts of America, who are extended already t
Ito the Mifliffippi. In this mature of peo- c
pie, of whom one in twenty is rich, the red 1
I poor, there can be no public spirit—no nat
I tional character. The French republic has >
lon her fide the most numerous part of the t
I United States, the cultivators, who are a/1 I
I adorers of liberty. While England counts r
Io» her fide, the nursery of peerage, cotnpo- v
I fed of rich planters, of avariwous merchants ; r
I the slate holders and pardoned refugees— j
I that is, the Canaille by excellence. The re- t
I fult of the eleftion for president has demon- c
I drated this troth. p
I The Executive Directory, if they know f
I how to use their means, and choose proper
I agents, <will have, when they please, the pre- c
ponderance which is ajftgned to the French R<- r
I public in the United States and every tvhere t-
I elft. The nereffities of our Colonies do not t
I require that France (hould make an appeal n
Ito the Anglo-Americans for supplies of r
1 provisions, since tbe profits of that trade will a
I always encourage the A me ricans to carry it o
I 011 is eveiv desirable that our colonies v
1 (hould not depend solely on the cultivators f
and stamen of the Atlantic, and that other e
I Countries (hould concur to put an end ti» s tbe a
I inextinguishable thirst for gain among the c
I Americans, to our own detriment and that si
of the Spaniards, our allies. c
The fear of a war with the United States, u
however ill-founded, is not, in a political o
view, altogether useless, as it may bring fl
back to France the French capitals placed tl
in their banks, and compel our cosmopolite si
merchants to arrange themselves under the w
gl6rious banners of their country. a
The terror of fueh an appreheufion will
appear absurd, when it is considered that t<
we are from 12 to 1500 leagues distant, and b
that on a furface of 146,440 square leagues, tl
there - " were, in 1794, uC 31929,326 inha- w
bitants. f 4
_ A war with the United States would not it
give to England one more seaman, since h
there arc now in her fleets from 12 to r<
j 5,000 sailors, either impre(Ted from Aroe- a
rican veflels, or engaged, it is presumed, d
with the connivance of the United States, fj
Phe United States haveno funds for main- is
taining a war, and in cafe France (hould tl
make war, not sn the people, *who love France, di
but on the government which has been guilty of bi
so much ingratitude to her, the government tl
could not fuceeed in levying an army or equip- tl
ping a fleet, or in levying duties to pay them, pi
If the Federal government (hould be so
blind as to declare war against us, we know ti
well why the armed tyranny of England was o<
forced to withdraw into its own illand from tl
America—it advanced into the American coun- qi
try. We (hould not take the example for ]y
our model—and we may be assured that the 01
boasting of the Fedsral Government would fii
- £oft it dear ! Its relations with Eilrop
■- would cease, and if it (hould negociat
il treaties, it would be with tribes of Indiar
y only."
:- The writer then goes on to vindicaie tli
dire dory for ordering the seizure of Ami
h rican veflels, and declares, that even if the
carry no contraband goods, the taking c
s, then? is a measure of jud retaliation for th
n evils done to France by our government.
5' He then proceeds to date that this fever
m treatment of the United States would brin
le them to propose a new treaty, which fhoul
ti be conformed to the natural interests of th
e parties. " The man felefted for this nc
d gotiafion, fays the writer, is no proud to
ie I ry, no advocate of peerage or royalty, lifc,
d bis -excellency Johu Jay—no political ma
y nequin—no American Malmefbury.
g " Madison loves his country more tha
n France—and the French republic more tha
ie all other countries. Liberty proclaims hir
it throughout America, as the defender 0
i- her rights in the of Representatives
d He knows that tyranny would convert tha
house into a house of commons—the fenati
into a house of peers—and a quadrenpia
»• president into an ele&ive, perhaps a heredi
h tary monarchy—rich men into a noblefle—
iv the middle classes into opprefibrs and bp
pre (Ted—the militia into feudal guards—
o and the mass of people into a vile herd o
h beads and (laves.
d "v It is perhaps to wieft from the peopl
n their mod zealous defender, that the An
:, glo-Americaff government has given hin
0 Tan appointment abroad. To get rid of hi
e j steady opposition, the government has dif
[t ' embarrafTed itfelf by pretending A confei
n on him a high mark of confidence.
d J " The absence of Madison from con
- grefs, and his access to the diredtory, wil
- double the strength of the friends of th<
11 two republics. The connexion of '7B, al
. most difiblved, will be drawn closer thar
to ever—and the American people, escaped
r from the tyranny of their oppreflors, by
the energy of the di'reftory,' and from a
i' dependance on England, will give them
: selves up entirely to their inclination to the
1 French republic, and to the generous fenti
: ment of their independence.
1 " But, poor Paftoret, I leave you in the
t hands of the minider Adet. He has much
r more to fay to you than I have."
) Such are the opinions hi Fiance refpeft-
I ingAmeriea—fuch a mixture of ignorance
and truth, abfurditics and jacobinical mis
representations, never was before put on
paper. The piece, however, (hows by
what kind of arguments the French would
persuade themselves to make war on us,
and what calculation., they make on the
strength of the United States. Confufion
seize the monsters who thus em
broil us in jtfar, whether they are' the men
of blood in France or their coadjutors in
this country.--""
Mom the Salem (Mas.) Gazettbl
/ OF THE YELLOW FEVfcR.'
■ THIS difcafe, unknown :0 Europeans
before the difeovery of America, was sup
posed to be peculiar to the Wtft-Indics, and
part of the continent, and though
fatal experience (howed that it might exist
in temperate climates, yet it was generally
if not always supposed to be imported from
those countries where the heat olid other
circumstances concurred in
Its late ravages in Philadelphia and other
towns situated very confiderablyt6 the north
ward, threw some suspicion* on the authen
ticity of this dodtrine, and it has not only
been doubted whether the-Weft-India aK
mates only were produdKve of the fever, but
whether it wis really infeftious or not. —
These suspicions in£reafed so much, and ap
peared to be so well founded, that phylicians
took different (ides of the quedion, some
contendiug that the fever was always im
ported ; others that it might arise any where
from local circtimdances.
The quedion concerning the importation
of the yellow fever is important, but much
more so is .that .concerning its infeflious na
ture. If it cannot prevail lput by importa
tion, and is infe&itius, it becomes absolutely
neeeflWy to fubjeft fea-farfng pertple to the
rigorous duty of quarantine, unpacking and
airing the goods, &c. neither, after all, can
others be fafe but by avoiding all connexion
with the vefel or those connected with it,
for a conliderable time. This must undoubt
edly be considered as a very great hardship,
and be a proportionable discouragement to
commerce ; but, on the other hand, If the
fever be not infeftious, and though introdu
ced into any place, cannot be propagated
unless in a certain (late of the atmosphere,
or when the air is infefted with pestilential
fluids, then all this precaution is uftYefs ; I
tlfere is neither occasion for quarantine nor
for separating the sick from the healthy,
which cannot be dons without a degree of
apparent cruelty..
Though these questions ought to be de
termined by physicians, yet as this hath not
been done, and both parties have publiftied
their opinions, it becomes juftinable in those
who are not physicians to judge for them
selves in this as in other matters by th'e com
mon rules of reason and sense which God
has given them. In this inquiry, we mud j
remember, that though the human race have '
a natural propensity to seek for the cause of ,
diseases in something occult and invisible, and |
far beyond the reach of our senses, yet this j
is a not diftate of reason, but a remiumt of ;
tW formef" superstition, which taugfit that '
diseases were occalioned by demons, and to
be curetl by clftrms and conjurations. If <
the matter is fairly considered, we (hall find, ;
that the modern dodlrine of mephitic airs, :
pestilential and putrid effluvia, &c. is very '■
apt to degenerateinto the former fuperfti- \
tion. It leads lis to believe that diseases are
oceafioned by something absolutely beyond
the feach of our iftvedigation, and confe- j
quently are to be cured by something equal- •
ly invisible and unaccountable. But when '
one invisible is Opposed to another, it figni- J
fies very little, whether such invifiblei arc $
ope animated or not, and on inlet is opc-.t J fol
iate ( the most dangerous quick&y. InftnncA of
lans this are not wanting even iu the present cafe
! of the yellow fever. We have seen a preventa
the tive of the fevef advertised in the newspapers
me- and strongly recommended by the advertifer|
hey ' but_ upon .what principle npbody knows.
> of T tlIS is precisely a conjuration, with this
the difference, that we are sure the words of
the conjuror can do neither good nor harm,
rcrc but we are sot sure whether the preventa
•ing tive may not do more harm than good. In
iuld another paper we find the old doftrine of
the Animalcule revived, and that the yellow
ne- fever is occasioned by myritds of these float
to- , ing in the air. Here, instead of the great
ike j demons of former ages, we have legions of
raa- small ones, only that thf latter, {ike the Ge
| nii and Fairies of the Orientals,,are mortal,
han The doftrine, however, leads the Writer we
ban speak of, to assign to his cures the most ex
lim traordinary recommendation perhaps ever
of given, viz. that they are dtllru&ive to animal
ires. life. In like manner the doftrine of conta
hat gion, ptitrefaftion, effluvia of any kind, or
ate in short any thing beyond the reach of our
Tial senses, leads to an unknown empirical kiud
:di- of remedies, which mult be disgusting to a
patient ; and it is absolutely neceflary that
bp- the patient have confidence in his phpfician,
s— or he will never obey him.
of Thus much fur the pra&ice of quacks;,
. we mull now coiifider that of the regular
pie physicians who have adopted in the disease
we speak of, methods not only different, but
lim a! most entirely opposite. As the writer of
his this paper is no physician, he pretends not
iif- to determine any thing coneerningthemodes
fer of cure. He lays it down !fs a maxim, that
no physician hath any interest in killing or
on- injuring bis patient ; neither does he believe
vill that any physician would perfifl in a mode
the of praftiee which experience fiicwed to be
al- pernicious. The design of this paper is to
lan shew that patients having once called a phv.
<ed fician, ought to perfifl in the irjethod of
by cure tfrofcribed by him, ami not upon any
i a account to deviate from it. This indeed im
m- plies that ihe fame disease rtiay be cured by
he very -different, and even opposite means ;
ti- and that it really may be so, appears from
the following facts :
he i. The English physician, Thomas
ch Sydenham; celebrated no less for his vera
city and candour, than for his giedical Ikill,
ft- praftifed at London during the,.time of the
ce plague Hij66y-and 1666.' He ,fi r ft cured
iif- it by taking Jarge quantities of blood, aud
on a (litres us that by following thrs method he
by had remai kable fuceefs. Al last this rae
ild chod of hltod-letting, for whfit reason hg
is, could oot discover, became so difagreegble
he to his patients, that he found himfelf obli
on ged to give up the praftice entirely, and
m- have reconrfe to other remedies. He (j£Xt
en had recourse to sweating exciting tht
in iweat by hot and ftimulating*rnedicines.-
Nothing could be more opposite in appear
ance, than these two modes of cure, and
yet tney both fuceeeded. The plague was
cured .by sweating, as well as purging.
2. With ivlpeci to the yellow fever itfelf,
ns we have undoubted testimony of its t>eing
p- cured by methods seemingly the most op
id poGte and unaccountable. JQr. Hillary, ia
;h a treat ife on the diseases of Barbadoes, men
ill tions the cafe of a furgeop't mate, who by ?
ly intemperance and lying abroad all night had
m got the yellow fever in a very severe manner,
er but was cured by qierely drinki.;g a large
n. quantify of warm water, till the enormous
er quantity of bile which irritated his stomach
H- was thrown off, and afterwards taking a few
n- doses of laudanum.. It is a well known
ly (lory of a diflipated gentleman in Jamaica,
i- that being deemed past hopes of recowry in
Jt a yellow fever, he invited his bacchanalian
- companion, to have one more liberal potati
p- on with him for the last time. Only one o
is beyed the summons. The sick man found
ic hiwfelf invigorated by the liquor he fwallow
i- ed, drank all the night, and was thus cured
re of his fever. L.afily, it ha» been mention
ed in the newf-paperi, that a person near
in Charleston, infefttd with the yellow fever,
h and past hopes of recovery, was cured by
a- rolling among tar, which inveloped his
a- whole body to a considerable thickijefsi and
[y could cot be got off afterwards without dif
e ficulty.
d Thus it seems to be established as a faft
n that the mcft pestilential diseases may be cu«
n red by opposite methods ; and if we know
that the plague may be cured by blood-let
:- ting and by fweatitjg, that the yellow fever
>, may be cured by exjiaufting and excellively
0 debilitating Operation of vomiting, as well
e as by the most violent ftimulants,why (hould
i- it be incredible, that it may be cured by
d Dr. Rush's method »f blood-letting and
■, other evacuations ? TIT? cafe of the tarred
il patient may indeed be said to favqr the dot
trine of Invifihles, aud the effluvia will in
r ftantly be thought of; but by a proper con
federation of the nature of the. disease, it is
f hoped that it may be accounted for upon
much more obvious principles.
In the yellow fever, the mere colour of
t the flcin ought not to be an objeft of terror,
d as it takes place in other diseases, and the
e catife is well known to be a dilfufion of the
i- bile through the bo'dy. The causes by
- which such a difi'ufion may, he made are
1 known to< be thjte at lcaft, and perhaps
I : there may be more. One is an obflrutlion
c; in the pafTages of the bile from the gall.
f bladder to the inteftine;> .which isfhe cafe
J in jaundice.—Another is by an excHTive and
s irregular motion of the body, as in sea sick
s ness; for this, when Jong continued and- vi
t 1 olent, makes the patient quite yellow.—
j The third is in cafe of violent heat and long
f i. continued acceleration of the blood through
, ; the liver, accompanied with a generdlo-dax
, ' ation of the body, which I suppose thciin- •
i j mediate cause of tin yel'ow fever, when
- ; combined with that disease which American
' pfo'ficians call fynochut. In «tht cafei of' v
I jaiwdice and sea-sickness the of rht
- j bile is evident, but in hot weather aifySivi
- crease of the secretion or diffufion of this
i | fluid is apparent. By-attention, how
- ever, it may be discovered. In the begin
ning of jauudice, before the flua is tinged,
ft .'Jtiis urine always apptars of a deep yellow
coloiir; in the f?a sickness it is the fame, and
ar.d even after it is over, on every occasion
of a fqyall, when the agitation of the ves
sel becomes greater than ufiial, die fame
yellowness returns. In very hot weather,
especially if violent exercifeis used; a fiinl-
ISr yellowness will beobferved, which shows
,t'nat mere heat and iricreafed motion of the
blood is capable of producing a partial dif
fufion of the bile, which would in all pro
bability become visible on did it
not get off by the urine. If, in such a (late
any person happens to be infeSled with a vi
olent fever, k is not improbable that he
might become yellow; though perhaps to
form the disease, a certain disposition of the
liver is nrcefTary, owing not to Anhnaiculx,
or imaginary ifflivia, but to ;he more e
vident eaufes of heat, relaxation, and increas
ed motion of the blood.
Thus, the diffufion- of the bile being a
symptom in itfelf accidental and not to be
dreided, but in conjunction with the fever,
it follows that whatever remedies have been
found to cure the fynochus may like wife be
fuccefsfully employed in the cure of they el
low fever; always regarding the accidental
cifeumftances which arise from the moderate
q*aantity of bile secreted, which, when
thrown in a large quantity rftto the stomach
is known to produce extreme ficknsfs, and
therefore mufl inere'fe and in a manner dou
ble the fiver with which the person is in
fe&ed, aftd make it more dangerous than it
otberwife would be; and mull likewise re
quire a difference of treatment.
If then the highest degree of fever, called
the plague, hss been cured by blood letting,
why should not the fame remedy cure an in
ferior degree of fever, though attended with
a diffufion of pile throughout the body ?
Here is neither quackery nor conjuration ;
for we may easily fee why it can do so. In
all pestilential diseases, fomcof the humours
of the ix'Hy, nr perhaps the whole mass of
blocd, is mfefted. By taking away a.large
tjiiantitity, the infeftign of course is dimio
ifhed ; the blood is soon recruited, and the
quantity newly made being prepared from
Uninfected materials, the general mass is of
a better quality than before. A second
bleeding diminifhe* the N infe&ion Hill more,
and to on. Thus may any person be con
vinced that when a phyfioian orders him to
be blooded in the yellow fever, hr proceeds
on rational principles, and hemay fafely trult
himfelf in his hands. As to the quantity of
blood to betaken away ; it mull be deter
wined by circumstances of which the phyfi- ;
„ cian only c?n judge, and the patient'or 'his :
attendants, ought by no means to interfere. 1
To this may be added, that when once a
physician has been allowed to begin with
any mode of effre, the fame ought to be
persevered in, as running from one thing to
another in such cases mull certainly be at
tended with extreme dang«r Dr. Syden
ham gives a remarkable instance of the bad
effects of this, in a young man infe&ed with
the ylague. He had proscribed his usual
remedy of blood-letting, and the patient had
submitted to it several times, with manifift
advantage. The doftor had infilled that it
fhdWia be repeated once more, and h« would '
be out of danger ; but his friends obstinate- 1
t ly refufed ; the doftor allured them his pa
tient would die ; theydifregarded his words, '
and the young man died as had been fore- <
told. In a late paper we fee i( remarked, <
that though some have recovered who have !
lofhblood in the yellow fever, we ought to 1
have been told how many have died under *
this practice. Agreed! but even this is not : r
fufficient. We ought also to be told how j
~ many nave disobeyed their physicians ; how f
many have deceived them ; how many have 1
teized them with injudicious remondranees,
and prevented them from afting according 1
to the best of their judgment. \y«re all h
these things laid open to pubh'c view, it in r
not improbable that we»fliould find numbers d
of patients, or rather of their friends and
relations, mose justly chargeable with their
, deaths than the physicians they emjdfljxjL *
By this day's Mail. J
*
NEW-YORK, O&ober 16. * j
Yederday arrived here, his Britannic Ma- ol
jelly's Packet, Swallow, Capt. Taylor, in ti
58 days from Falmouth. Her accounts are m
no later than the 9th of Auguft—confe- er
quently no news. The report o"f her hav- aj
ing been captured by the Freneb is not oj
Jrue. of
Ira Allen writes from England, that he ci
had received the letters from our govern- pa
ment to lay before Lord Grenville, request- re
ing it is supposed, the releafc of the Olive fti
Branch and her cargo of arms, tents, field ce
pieces and camp equipage. Ncvv, he f«js, sic
the people of Verniont will be supplied with ab
arms. ' lai
We rejoice that our brave fellow-citizens ha
of Vermont are likely to be supplied—but be
as the fighting men in that Hate can not much ou
exceed the number of 20,000, and it is to be Ui
presumed that mod of them have excellent or
guns already, as they are huntert, where fir;
wjll Ira Allen find purchasers for 20,000 to
muskets, with bayonets and cartridge box— is ;
es i Who in Vermont will buy brass field am
pieces, tents and camp kettles ? ex]
When) Mr. Allen, wrote his letter frftm wh
England, he could not have known of nie in :
conviiflion and execution of M'Lcan in CV otl
nada—much less could he hav6 known that in
it was proved on his trial, that the infur- pre
gents deflined to take Quebec by storm, mo
if*re to be supplied with arms from Ver- of
ment. But if our Vermont brethren should he;
n*t want Allen's arms and C3mp equipage, par
poflfibly he may find a market for them in er,
olher Rates. The loiv price and long credit po\
by the French government will enable by
bimto fell them cheap, and the speculation to 1
may yet prove a profitable one. tioi
pie
Communication. vile
A correspondent is for*y to fee the fatal pov
influence which the publication of fev'eral mei
ellow letters, said to be received From France, is
, and likely to have upon the just indignation the
lafion pqeple of the United States had felt from
vef- the depredations on our commerce by a ban
fame dttti of the French oation, afting under an 1
ther, infamous decree of the dire&ory of the 2d i
fiim- refpefting the newly-invented form ;
hows of a thing called a role d'equipage. Those 1
f the perfous who handed said letters for publics- 1
1 dif- tion, have been instrumental in doing tnore 1
pro injury to the United States than they are 1
lid it aware of; what their views were, it is im- 1
Hate possible to tell—certain it is, that their 1
a vi- publicity is injurious to the honor and inte- 1
it he reds of our cpuntry. The only way for us ;
ps to to get reparation for the incalculable sums 1
>f the of which we have been robbed by French (
leu/x, privateers, is to be unanimous among our- 1
ire e- selves in expressing in a dignified manner, <
:reaf- the high, sense we to a man entertain of the 1
" n j"ries and wrongs we have fuffered \
ing a from an UN-authorised decree of the v
to be French direaory, independent of, and coir- | (
ever, trary to the concurrence and opinion of the
been legislative body. With extreme pain do I
fe be f«e attempts induflrioufiy making, by inte
:y el- reded and avaricious men, to injure their
ental country from felfifh motives, whose efforts, r
erate in conjutiftion with those of that class of I
tfhen men among us, whoaffea to think that the I
nach French government, or even any part of it, c
and can do no wrong, tend to weaken the exer- n
dou- tiong x)f our real patriots for the wrongs d
in- and they daily receive from France. I
an it I find, from a pemfal of all the Jacobin I .
e re- prints throughout the continent, that a cer- |
tain been gladly laid hold of, and ' r<
ailed has been republifhed with so much avidity, C
ing, as to make it more evident that «ur Gallic- a,
n in- Americans eagprly seize on every pretext, Ic
with to j-rtd/Fy the depredations and robberies in
dy ? exercised towards this country by the aban- h,
on ; doned part of the French nation. Our ft
In veflels have, till lately, been fully and pro- 'it
ours p'rly documented, in the opinion of all ti
'% of the world ; the French "nation itfelf has," ft.
>rge for f"vetal la'ft pad, entered our vef
nin- fels, and cleared them out of all the ports, A
the merely on prefeiiting them with a lift of the St
rom crew, or, in other words, a role d'equipage.
s of This form of a role d'equipage has - been
ond necessary,, and thought fufficient for all our
ore, veflels the whole of this war, ahd goes fur
:on- ther than what is alluded to in the twenty
-1 to fifth article of our treaty with France, which 1 c:
;f ds does not even mention the necefiity of a lift hi
mil of the crew, but only of the captain, vef-
Y of fel, carge, &c. It alludes to a form of a
ter- | certificate, which ought not, by said arti- P
yfi. j cle twenty-five, to contain the names of the
his ' crew; so that the form of the certificate, (I
ere. [ w 'th refpeft to the. crew, is at variance with
e a the article on which it is founded. Ought !
rith Ilot the body of the treaty to be held more ' ti(
'be sacred, and be more to than any b)
rto extraneous matter annexed thereto ?——— It of
at- certainly ought, and I am sure will, by a
en- every honest and patriotic man. Is a mere ha
bad r »/ e d'equipage to have more force and vali- 01
r ith dity than the numberless papers with which
ual a vefTel is furnifhed from higher authorities ?
'lad have hada role d'equipage all this
feft which ev«n tSjjH'rench, till lately, thought tei
tit was in form ; now, the direftory have tak- in
uld en into their heads to rob us, merely be- va
ite- cause they cannot find any more plunder in fai
pa- I'ranee,-or in Italy; and the only pretext ed
ds, they offer is, a mere difference in the fcfftai wj
ire- of a simple lift of the crew, which, by their PI
decree of the 2d of March, has a meaning (u
IV e and forin very opposite to the intentibn of ms
to the 25th article of the treaty of 1778, on th<
ler ; which it was founded. f hope my country- ag
lot ; men will not degrade themselves by juftify- co
"w ; ln R robbery against the property of their mi
3w fellow citizens, and will carefully and fcru- an
ive puloufly avoid advocating a principle which, gii
es, hy the next arrival from Europe, may, and cit
ng I think will, be established by the legislative
all body of France, to be a mere flimfy, pitiful by
is pretext of the diredtory, for plunder and or
•rs depredation. of
"d da
fir hen a nation is iofulted and injured by nit
a foreign power, it is a duty incumbent on wil
m the patriotic printer of. a public paper, to bla
pUblish every fentimejit that may tend to er
promote unanimity among the people at Bri
, large, in execrating the coriduft oi the pow- Gr
er with whom our government may have any Jol
difputc. Howeverinherent itis in the nature Cit
a- of republican governments to generate sac- Jof
in tions, dill, it is possible for them to avoid rily
re making partisans of foreign powers, or lift- con
e- ening to the plausibly fatal tales of their but
v- agents among 11s. Whatever diversity of the
>t opinion may prevail refpedling the principles fliip
of our conflitution, the beneficial or prejudi- Caj
ic cial effefts of certain laws, or the talents or Gr;
1- patriotism of the be cjiofcn for our Mr,
I- representatives ;we cannot too carefully and Ed\
re studiously avoid fuffering our minds to rt- Cha
d ceive any bias from the anti-patriotic con- two
s, fideration of its being agreeable or disagree- of t
h aole to the wishes or intereds ofany particu- Cap
lar foreign power, when the welfare and blac
is happiness of our own country is intended to Sch
it be promoted by any measure adopted by the
h our government. But unfortunately for the and
e United States, whenever a^law ispropofed, at N
t or a candidate held up for public office, the num
e firft question aflced is, whether he is friendly and
0 to France or Great Britain, not whether he froir
- is a man who loves his country, who is able the
d and willing to/promote hur interests at the ter (
expense of his own, or any *foreign power take
1 whatever. The fatal effe£ts of this partiality char
e in favor of one nation to the exclusion of all, V
1- others, has unhappily taken too deep root Chai
t in the United States, and will continue to„j»fhip
- prove a source of evils pregnant with the this
, mod: alarming consequences. The history 'of th
- of pad ages abounds with examples of the ther
1 hc'rid eftefts of the blind attachment of one of a
1 part of the fame nation to one foreign pow- capt.
1 er, and another part to another "foreign ufc o
f power. The iriterpofition of foreigners is, Mori
: by such divisions invited, and they never fail at St
1 to avail themselves, by intrigue and corrup
tion of the passions and prejudices of a peo- 1
pie who are a prey to those diffentions. The II
vile machinations of the agijnts of European been j
powers paralize the energy of our gov err- releaj
ment, whose strength depends on the unani- on «/
V
I
e» is arid support of the p?op!e—thiy fo
-1 the ment discord—prevent the operation of mea
rrom fures evidently calculated to promote the
ban- public good—and finally keep us from rising
'r an t0 that independence, powernnd'profperity
■ t0 w hich we are entitled from onr resources
orm and situation. I sincerely hope the prihters
hose throughout the United States, will religi
lica- oufiy and feriotifiy consider the iimportant
nore rank they hold in society as the of
are public inftruftion, an! thtt they will refufe
im- the admission of sentiments into their papers
heir whose aim is to advjftie the interests and
nte- reputation of any foreign- nation wljjtcver,
t us at the expence of the honor «Ind happiness of
ums their own. Every American should exe-
crate that printer who fnake3 his paper the
aur- vehicle for promoting the wicktd intrigues :
ner, of foreign ngentt i; ly, we
the ! have men among ds bfthatbfack stamp, who
.-red when necefilty requires, shall be charged
the with their guilt, proofs of which exist, and
:on- fliall, at a proper time, be brought forward,
the
I ALBAN7, October 9.
nte- A paper was lately read before the Royal,
heir Society of London, proving from nice and accu- J
irts, rate experiments that diamonds (■which- are
s of known (0 be entirely consumable by sirs) oh com
_the bufiion are completely resolved in's unmixed
it, carbonic gas ; or, in ether luordi, that dia
<er- monds are nothing more tr left than pure con
tigs denfed charcoal,
ice. . ..
bin CONCORD, (N. H.) Sept. 26.
cer- M'uhael Sutton, of Canterbury, -who -was '
ind committed to Exeter jail for flouting a horse o/' .
ity, Capt. Curry's, and there cat his own throat J
lie- about a fortnight ago in a dfp.-rate manner, inas
•xt, last weeh brought to Mr. James Stevens's,'.
ries inW.'is iown, where he died on Friday last : 1
an- having received no nourijhment Into hisJlonmch ,
)ur for 14 days. He had never fpoken,{thtpipe ]
ro- being entirely cut ojf)but communicated ly wri
all ting He appeared tq be greatly diflrejfed for •
as,' f,rue time before his death.
'ei- Died, on Sunday eveni'ij, at the house of
r ts, Mr. J'/illiam Pdrtrirfge, in this town, Cuth
tjie bert Hutch'mfon, a neitive of England, aged 51.
feu BALTIMORE, Oflpber 13.
>ur BOARD of H/tLTH.
ur- BURIALS
iy- Ih the weft part of Baltimore, heretofore ,
ich called the town—for the last twenty-four
lift hours—ending morning at fun-rife :
ef- 3 Adults, O Children.
r a Burials in the east part, called Feil's
■ti- Point, Bcc. including the Potter's Field :
he 3 Adults, • 1 Child.
te, (Signed) '.Joseph Townfend, tlerk.
!th Odtober 13.
ht j We are happy to fay that the corpora
ire ' tion of the city of Anaapplis, convinced
ny by the daily report of our health committee
■lt of the little danger to be apprehended from
by a regular communication with this port, c
:re have repealed their bye-law, published in y
li- our paper of the 9th instant.
ch -
s? * SAVANNAH, September 29.
ir,- On Tuesday the 18th fnft. was eommit
ht ted by the City Council, to the Federal jail
k- in this city, Robert of the pri
.e- vateer brig Campbell, capt. Wilson of Naf
in fan, (N. P.) mounting 18 guns, andown
xr ed by Richard Coppinger of that place he
was put on board the schooner Nancy of
;ir Philadelphia, commanded by capt. Burnet,
ig (which was retaken captain and his
of mate, as mentioned before, and brought by
mi them in here) as prize master. The charge
y- against him is that lie bad no copy of a
y- commiflion, which all privateers legally corn
er mifiioned, give—that he lately commanded
1- an American veflel fron Alexandria in Vir
h, ginia, to the Weft-Indies, and that be is a
id citizen of the United States.
re On Monday the 25th inft. were arrested
ill by a warrant from John Glen, Esq. May
d or of this City, Joseph Moffay, of the state
of Maryland, and William Cowell, of the
state of North Carolina, Citizens of ibe U
y nited States, (who were picked 'up at r ea
m with three other whites, ai>d thirty-five
o blacks, by Capt. Callaghan, of the Schoon
-0 er Exuma) and having: been oij board the
it British armed Ship, General:' of
r- Grenada, they were brought before Doctor
y John Love, one of the Aldermen of this
c City, f.rr examination, when,it appearing
> Joseph Moffay, Ifad lliipped himfelf volunta- ..
d rily on board the said armed Ship, he was
:- committed to the Federal Jail for his trial; 8 -
r but it appearing that William Cowell, 011
f the oath of twrs of the crew of said armed
s fliip, was pitfked up at sea in a boat with
■ Capt. Ewing, latf Master of the Schooner € ' s
r Grace, of Washington, North Carolifta, ar "
r Mr.» Armour the owner, an apprentice boy,
1 Edward Potter, of North-Carolina, and P Ol
- Chaijes Langley, a boy "of Boston, with
- two blacks. That Capt. Michael Morrifon,
- of the said armed ship, had permitted the
- Captain, owner, apprentice, and the two V
1 blacks to go on board of an American
i Schooner, but had detained by compulsion# j
r the said William Cowell, Edward Pottifr
: and Charles Langley, on board; and that fert
, at Nassau, <.4i his arrival there, be placep a mei
■ number of blacks to guard the said Cowell rer
and Langley, to prevent them gfcttingaway is v
i from his Ship, (for Potter hstdjumped into cefl
the boat of the Quebec Frigate at Sea, as. eati
ter exchanging a ihot firft with Jver mif- pa^
take at night)—be whs in conftquencc dif- tor
charged by Alderman Love. » ivat
We hear that oath isalfo made, that said afe
Charles Langley, of Boston, periflicd in the to 1
,j»fhip when (he foundered at feb, a,id also, that oth'
this was the ship that took capt. Conklin, fror
of the brig Two Siuers, of Niw-York, put fed
the mate in irons, and plujidsred the veflel the
of a spy glass and other articles, and that tipr
capt. had the spy glass after, in /rot
use on board his ship. We learn that capt. fecr
Morrifon, and Mr. Morris, super-cargo are. pre)
at St. Augustine. of o
at e
QUEBEC, sept. 28. in 'a
His Excellency the Go vert: or in Chief hct fery
been pleafcd to cause a warrant to issue, for the roed
releafc of Daniel George, underfentenc; of dealt f'evi
on condition of his leaving the Freziice- that
1
£ Xf;c (3a?.e»?.
hf PHILADELPHIA,
ces TUESDAY EVENING, Octobfr j 7 .
crs '
gi- Interments since our lajl report.
int Grown Persons. Chiidr-n.
0 £ First Pre(bytma/i o ' O
, Sec n«l Prefbyt~rian ' o j
Th.ir-! Prefhyterian i o
ers Chriil Church o o
lid St Paul's o o
er, St - Peer's o 0
, 0 f St. Mary's Church 4 o
Uriivcifjlnh I 0
{e ". , Friencis o o
he Free Quakers' O O
les ' German I.utlieran o g j
ws German CalvaniiU O o
ho Method I (Is a q
Nw.ides j q
ca Potter's Field o 0
nd City Hospital 6 o
rd. _ __
'4 1
„/ CITY HOSPITAL REPORT,
:u- j From 16th to I,7th Odl. in the oStrning.
Ire Admitted, since last report,
m- Robert Bayne, Half moon, Chefnut-ftreet.
Ed Discharged, since last report.
■a-' Su f all Graham, admitted 17th ult.
n . William Shields, 2 Sth
i°hn Coakly, 29th
John Pennington, 28th
Andrew Burchall, 3d inft.
as • William Gamble, yth
John Davis, ,3th
at Died since last Report.
as I how long flrprevi
's, ' j ous to admittance.
_ ! Catharine Cooky, 46 hoars, unknown.
c h \ Daniel Rofs, 47 do. 1 day.
f" 'T> ■ ■
•/'. j Remaining last report 54
■ 9r Admitted fine* 1 j
Discharged y
I. Died 2 g
Remain in Hospital. j 46
Four of whom are dangeroua.
In erred since last report.
■ e , From city and fufcurbs 4. '
lr Hospital 2
Total 6
'a Stephen Girard. j
(Signed) ' Caleb Lownes.
John Connelly. j
Published by order of the Bq?i i,
Wm. MONTGOMERY,
i- _ Chairman pro tem.
J ——
e The commiflioners for alleviating the dif- .
n tresses of the citizens have, since last publi- (
:, cation, received the following donations,
n Tlz- _ Dels. tts. |
From certain inhabitants of
Cheltenham 61 «c 1
H. LeufFer » 2? 1
. Ca(h
il Robert Coleman (Laneafter
county) 100
Inhabitants of Trenton (per
James Ewing) »^ 0
e Adam Lechler, fuperintendant, and several ,
f labourers o*the roads under him, viz.
Adam Lechler 1
s Ar«hibald Curry X '
r Samuel Shaw ' ' j
: Hugh Roy 050
, James Carr oj o
Philip Ankerman 1
j James Reilly o "
Caspar Shefmeyer o co
, Chrif?Dpher Diel 050
Hilary Baker (Mayor) 20
| Thomas Snowden's wife 10
George Nelson 60 n
Inhabitants of Haddonfield, and v
citizens of Philadelphia now 1 1«
there, (per Thos. Redmari) 409 55
From said Redman, a balance of J C
money fubferibed in 1793,
and not then received, 20 21 C
Inhabitants of Wilmington and
Brandywine, received in a let- C
ler from Joseph Warner and .
John White, - 411 38 c >
From John Haworth, 4 loads of potatoes. ~
Certain inhabitants of Roxborough town-
ship (per Peter Robefon) 3 barrels of flour,
3 quantity of potatoes, turnips and • cab- »»
bages. 1
Inhabitants of Cheltenham, 40 bulhels Sc
of potatoes, Cwt. of ry?flour, 2 bush
els of Indian meal, and 96 lbs. of bacon Pa
and beef.
Jonathan Meredith, a waggon load of er ,
potatoes and turnips.
For Edward Garrigues, Sec'ry
BENJAMIN KITE.
Oct. 17th, 1797.
be:
Jr ' * j e j"
./or the of States. h ;
MR. FENNO,
In one of your late papers it has been as
serted with confidence, that Dr- Rufli used ,'h)
mercury only as a purgative in theyellow fe- tht
verof 1793. To shew that this aflertion 6>e
is wholly without foundation, it is onlynn- w! ,
ceflary to refer to that gentlemsn's publi
cation on the fever of the above year. In t bfc
page 288, " I had observed (fays the doc- wli
torJHhat all fjich of tay patients as were sal- P u:
ivated,by the mercurial purges recovered 111
a few days. This early fnggefted at\ idea k ; R
to me that the calomel might b'e applied to C:
oth?r purposes than the discharging of bile Pre
from the bowels. I ascribed its salutary ef- ' sro
fcfts when it salivated in the firft «f
the difordtr, to the excitement of inflamma
tion and effnfion in the throat diverting them
/roro more vital parts of the body. In the Bri
second ftsge of the disorder I was lei to* Sch
prescribe it as a stimulant, and with a vfew ?,
of obtaining this operation from it, I aimed
at exciting a salivation as speedily as p&flible
in 'allcafes." The docontinues to ob
fcrve that ,he wa; led to the use of this rc- A
medy (mercury) in the cure of the yellow "
fever, f%m his own observation, and from 4-a!
that of ctbe'rs. . c
5?. Ir. the month of Qftober 1789, he etir<;d
a gentleman of i bilious fever by falivatin
h«n, and he had found another precedent
«or a salivation in a fever, in Dr. Haller's
short account of the works of Du. Cramer.
He nweover adds that the propriety of tl e
- praftict received support, from the accomr. s
_ which Dr. Clarke h:id Ijtely given of the
• i illqeefsful use of mercury in the dysentery.
Ir, 1 n a^ertec * ,n your paper that
I -Ur. Kulh did not bleed in the yellow feviS
-of 1793, till after iK? 10th of September.
one > "ho lias read the doftor's pub
'cat,"n on the disease, must be
that this aJTertion is equally ungrounded. He
lied in the disease as early ag the 6th of Au.
gust. See page B._Thus, Mr. Fenno, it
clearly appears, that Dr. Rufli, in the yel
■ t low fever of 1793' not only gave mercury as
a purge, but to produce a salivation ; and
that he bled in that fever on the iixth of
Augtift, instead of about the loth of Sept.
The credit of introducing in our city these
remedies in the cure of the present disease ft
due to him alone. Attempts have been
tpade -to refer their introduction to other
gentlemen of the faculty ; bus these at
t. tempts will prove abortive ; for they have
iprung from a spirit of falfehood Snd calum
ny. And to fay that »his gentleman intro
duced blood-letting and calomel in the cure
oi the yellow fever at Philadelphia, is only
noticing a ftnall portion of his tnedic3l fer-'
vices. By his industry and ingenuity he has
n> ffrly a total revolution in medicine.
His principles appear to be founded on
truth ; and not only embrace new views of
•_ yellow fever, but of diteafes in general.
J In spite df envy and malice, in spite of Eu
ropean books, and universities, these princi
ples are daily gaining groynd.i They.have
been adopted by many eminent physicians in
~ t! ? e United States, by some ih th,-' Weil-In-
| dies, and by some in Europe. And when
| it is coqfidered that-they have condufted
"to 9 more fuccefsful pra&ice, and that they
' have spread with rapidity in different parts
or the world, may we not venture to ep
tertaia the opinion, an opinion not improb
(s a,ble, or extravagant, that their adoption
*yill be finally universal ?
The following extra#, from Dr. Chif
holm's work on the malignant pestilential fe
+ ver which lately prevailed in the Weft-Indies,
will throw light on Dr. Rulh's character as
a physician and a man, and confirm the be
lief, that he is entitled to the credit of in
| troducing mercury in this city in the cure
jof the yellow fever. " Since my arrival in
I England, I have had peculiar fatisfaftion m
, finding that a treatment nearly similar to the
, above * had beeii adopted with great success
in the malignant pestilential fever, which so •
p lately prevailed at Philadelphia during the
autumn of 1793. Dr. Rush's medical tal
ents and merit are too well known and too
' generally acknowledged to require the fee
• ble efforts of my jjen to extol them. If a
_ nv thing, however, could add to the excel
' ' enc e of thit gentlemanls chara&er, it must
be his benevolent exertion, and unwearied
perfererance during the existence of this
dreadful calamity, in relieving his kelplefs
and affljdled feflow-cjtizens, and in pnrfuing
the mercurial mode of treatment, with the
weight of prejudice and malignity in oppofu -
tion to him.v Such fortitude is rarely met
with in the medical profeflion ; and when
j it is, it must secure our admiration and res-
P ? &. Chifhblm on the malignant pefti
leatial fever, &c. page 275.
;■ I A PHVSICIAN.
treated the malignant fever
l in the Ivefi 7 lv Trj l , ....
> At a meeting of the Select and Common
, Councils, this day, the following officers
w re elected :
Hilary Baker, Mayor—unani
mo'jfly.
I I rAncis Prefident of the Se
; left Council. \
Kearney Wharton, President of the
J Common Council.
William H. Tod, Clerk of the Seleft
Council.
Edward J. Coale, Clerk of Common
Council.
Joseph Fry, Meflenger of the two Coun
cils.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
New-York, Oa o beri6.
ARRIVED. DAYS.
British Picket Swallow, I'aylor, Falmouth
via Halifax \ 5
Schr. Lwtle George, Pell, North Carolina
Mary Ami, Everett, < Annapolis Ro/sl 8
Packet George, Brown, Newport, i
His Britannic Mijefty'n frigate Thifiae, anchored
off Governor'* llUnd cn Saturday evening, from a
cruise.
Norfolk, oa. 9.
The fchr. Charles, 13 days fiom the Havanna,
went up to Baltimore 00 Saturday. By her we
!? Vn that Santhonai failed for France a fortnight
befVe, convoyed hy the ,'uno Spagith frigate, who
left ncr oil* the Bahama banks and returned to tt c
Hjvknnsh.
Op Saturday arriv»d the fchr. Eagle, capt. Bil
tardj in , 6 days from Cape Njchola Mole. By
thiyveflel We learn that commodore Barney, with
the French frigates Medusa and 1: fa get t , m :;'e
the '<•"-! ft Caicos on the Ijth Sept. On thf'irpaf
fdge thither thtyhad captured a Brijr fromflrjflol.
when clpymg two large ftips in the ofang they
cast loolVthe hrij-for the of chafing th.-m:
tVrtng was fljortiy after r'efsken and-cJirried into
si* where on admiral Parker, -
with S fail of the line a d 2 frigates, immediately
pu: to sea in'puriuit of them
|We further learn by this arrival, that the fchr.
Tvlfcria, capt. Kattcn. the fchr. Intrepid, capt \Vi'- *
kinfon, hoth from Ndrfolk, jpd a fchr. from N.
Carolina (came unknown) ha.T been taken by the'
French ruw loats I>ut alt.-rwariJs, retaken and
brought lino the Mole. The captain- and crews
ofthe above velfels were all cutandbeat in a dread
ful maimer.
Baltimore, 03. 13.
ARJUVSB.
Brig Three Sioer«, St Croix
Schr. Treaty, Sir.ithwick, C N. Mole
? Eagle. Dalton, Cape Franccis
Lang, Pott-au-Prinre
Wanted, to Hire,
Al.arge and convenient HOUSE, in or near
the centre of the city—for which a gcrereu.
foot will be given; to be taken for a year, or or.
for a longer Jter.it. hi quite of the Piintrr
- «c ;t iImported intherhipMAiicHj'.s rkßj
Benjamin Shewell, Mailer, r? n
From Bouritcaux, and for sale by the fubferibqr, J ' j
No. 11 Walnut St eet.
Bon-deaux Brandy
Irifli market claret in cases { Entitled to --pj
Medoc wine, ill do, f Drawback.
Sautcmej'do. " do. J 'h'f
Thomas Murgatreyd.
WHO HAS SALE. Th«i
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter calks fhei
Rota do. do. Jo
Pimeirto in bags
'4OOO bushels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stf.
To be fold at Public Vendue,
To the tiighcft bidder, at the hoDfe of Mi".
William Evans, the sign ot the Indian
Queen, in the city of Baltimore, 011 the 15th ,
day of Oflober next, at it o'clock, A. M
About seven thousand acres of land,
the property of William Beit, of Philadelphia,
lying between Reifter f »-town and Wttlminfter,
commonly called Little Wincbefter, (the turn
pike read rupsi through a eonlidarable part of
thtfe lands) the traft begins about 17 miles
from Baltimore, within a saw hnndred yards
of said Keiller's-town, and extend* to the dif- ,
tanCe of a'rtut twenty-three milts from Balti- |
more, and lie* o() the main falls of Patapfico ,
river, from three to four mil«s thereon. Will
be fold in tradls of one hundred and fifty to
three hundred acre. There is a large propor
tion of meadow and v*ood land on each trafl,
lome of them highly impT.oveu, with excellent
buildings and fine gr.'fs.
ALSO
A tracl of seven hundred acres of 4
land, called Clover Farms, within five miles of ry 1
Blader.Siurg, esteemed very* good for Grass. icn»
Richard Ponforiby, of.BUdenfbnrgh, will Ihew , bo*i
this land to any person inclined to purchase. 1 'low
* also, | late
A trad of land of about three hun- mu g '
dred and thirty aares, within about two qiiles ( g ou
aVi«l a half o' the President's hou/e in the Fede- j
ral City. It i> nearly all wood land, and a fine I .
high profpefl, fron; which may be fee* the 1
ci}y of Bladentburgh, Alexandria
and a pait of George-town, and mmy miles
down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard ronfoir
by, of Bladenfburg, will alfa shew this land. jjo.
A liberal credit will be givtn for the graateft tj
part ©f tbe purchase money. Ihe terms will Jj
be made known on the day ef sale. tior
May 8 w .* m S PP
- ——t
just Received, " e^
From Batavia con
a few Spices, confuting of , edil
Nutmegs, Cloves and Mace 'l°*
For fali by P" 1
IVILLINGS& FRJXCI&, 1
Penn-ftreet. *
May 30 1
Davis*z Law Book Storc y
No. 319, High-Street. pai
GE O 11 G E DAVIS,
BEIJJG busied for some time c ast in prepara
tiotis for remoying into hi»pr«fent house, has
been undei thcneceliityof poftponingußtil this day
informing the gentlemen of the Bar generally thro
the United States, that his spring importation of
law books is now ar/anged and ready for lale, oa
terms that he trnfts will entitlehim to the like pre- _
frtrecce he has experienced for laveral years pall.
Catalogues, combining the most varied eollee
tion ever imported ieto this coQnwy, are.print«l
and will be delivered on appkicatiou.
June *7. aaw 6w
City Coinmtjfioneri Office, Pl
June 12, 1797.
FI pursuance qf an ordinanre from the fcled*
and common ctwncils, pafled the »id day of
Mav lad, appointing the city crfnimiffiontrs, _
and urefcribine their duties, fc&ion 9th,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, ,
That the city is divided into five diftrifU, J
*aeh to be under tha fuperintendance of one of
the city commissioners, whole so be individually
relponftblc for the cleinlinef. of the fama, and tl
are as follow- a
DfiftriiJl No,. \. From the south fide of Ce- m
dar-ftreet, to tha north fide of Spruee-ftreet, «ct
rthe superintendence of Nathan Boys. •
3. From the north fide of Spruce-street, to
the north fide of Walnut-ftreet.uDder the fuper
intefidence of Hugh Roberts. 4
3. From the north fide of Walnut to tha south
fide of Righ-ftreet, under the superintendence ot -
Joseph Cbypoole. » ■
'•V 4. From the nortb fide of Higk-ftreet, to the
north fide of Mulberry flreet, nnder the fiiper
intendeoce of Moulder.
! From the north fide of Mulberrv-ftreet to
the north fide of Vine-street, under the super- r
intendeoce of Nicholas Hicks.
The cleWiingof High-street to be in common. »
A-y A stated meeting of the city commission- J
ers' is held at the Old Court House, in High- -
fireet, every fuefday evening at j o'clock.
July 14. eolm j
Stands for Draymen, &c. \
purjuaiim of an Ordinance from tbe Seleft and ,
Common Coune It, bearing date tbe lid day of ,
Jtrril) 1-797, providing for the appointment of ,
City Comtnijf.orieri, tS'c. Sett, the 15th. 1
THE following places are fixed upon by the
said City Comftiiffiooers for Standa for
Briymen and their Horses.
In Vine-flreet, eastward of Front-flre«t, on
both fides. ..... «
SafTafras, High, Chtfnut and Walnut-fttreets,
eaflward o» Front-Ilreet.on the no.-th fide only.
Mulberry-street, south fide front Front to
Third-street.
Front-lire®, east fide from to
Elfrith's alley- , ,
Front-street, from oppolite to Black Harle al
ley to Hamilton's stores, east fide.
Water-street, weff fide from the north end of
Stumper's or Moore's stores to Pine-street.
Penn-ltreet from Pine to Ce-lar-ftreet, weft
Drawbridge, north fide, east of Front-street.
spruce, Pine and South streets, east of troat
ilreet, south fide.
Dock-street, between Walnut-street and the
flag stone croffiugs, east fide, oppolite George
Second-street, between Saflifras and Vine
streets, weft fide-
Fifth-ftreet, east fide from Chefnut to Mul-
Safiafras-ftreet, from Third to Tourth-ftreet,
No dray or horse to stand within ten feet of
2 "stTnDS FOR HACKNEr COACHES.
north fide from Fourth to Filth
Fifth-direct, between Chefnut and Walnut
ftr ßranch-ft l reet, north'fide, between Third and
Fourth streets.
July i+.
A Literary Treat. Qr
'tuft pullifheJ, handsomely printed on writing ;
paper, firk?} dollar, or n
A new edition of that popular and entertaining ones
work, sntitled from
FORESTERS, an American Tale ; being upw;
a fequcl to the hillory of John Bull, the Clo- Jjnni
thier—ln afeiiesof letters to a friend, with the ad- -£-|
dition of twp lettets, alluding to recent political
tranftflioqs in America. t jj en
Th«i following eitraift from the Ciavis Allagonca, ma( j
shews the principaljcharaAcrs that are introduced: .
John Bull, the Kidgdom of tn^taW
Hii Mother, the Church of hngiotid
His Wife, the Parliament " orl
HisSiP.er Peg, theXhurch of Scotland U ; t "
His Brother Patrick, Ireland wlt ' l
Lewis, the Kingdom of France ,
HißMiftrefs, the Old Conilitution ou
His >«v Wife, the National Rcprefentation Se
Lord Strut, the Kingdom of Spain .\r
■f Nicholas Frog, the Dutch Republic uu
' The Franks, the French Republic
The Fareftcrs, the United States of America
Robert Lumber, New-Hamplhire
John Codline, MaffaihufetU . -
Humphrey Plow (hare, Conne&ieut
Roger Carrier, Rhode Ifl&nd e .
Peter Bull frog, New-York J l '"
Julias Cafar, Ncw-Jerfey _ St
William Broadbrim, Pennfylvaffia
Cadimar, Delaware
Walter PipewootJ, Virginia
His Orandfon, George Walhingtca j^]
Peter Pitch, Berth Carolina
Charles Indigo, South Carolina "
George Trudy, Georgia the £
Ethan Greenwood, Vermont e( j
Hunter Longknife, Kentucky g.
Black Cattle, Negro Slaves C( .; v ;
Rats, Speculators t0
' Mother Carey's Chiekens, J&cohina
This popular and entertaining fatiricalhifto- s j.
ry of Atn«; ica is attributed to the Rev. Dr. Be l- t j, e ,
knap. It hasa great lhare of originality and a- IuQV
hounds with genuine humour. It is continued
i down to the present time, and chara&erifes those . a
! late political tranfa&ions which have caused so g (
! much uDoafinefs in America.
i Sold by H. and P. RICE, BookfeHer, No. 16, 1 L
South Second Strret, and No. 50, Marks' ftaaet. A
; June *6. 5 and
. ■ beer
LAW BOOKS, J
Latcft London and Dublin Editions.
H. isf P. RICE, Book/tilers, A
No. I*, South Second, and No. 50, Market street,
HAVE just received by the lite arrivals from
London and Dublin, their fpriar importa
tion, consisting of a variety of the latult and most
approved Law Books, which, added to those alrea- Qil
dy on hand, forms the moftertenfive eollefiionev
er offered for fa!e in this country. They theiefore 0
beg leave to notity, that from the nature of their cn
conne&icnsin Dublin, they are enabled to felllrifh
. editions (as they hare hitherto at the very
*loweft prices. The following are among the latell nu)
publications.
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chaneery, * volfc
Peake's Cases -at Nisi Prius ; R'ldgeway's Reports
in the time of Lord Hardwioka ; Floyer's ProAers Wi
Pra&ice in the Eecleflaftical Courts; Barton's W;
Treatise on a Suit in Equity; Tidd's Pra&ice as ft r <
the Court of King's .Bench in Personal Aftions, » t y_
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise wa
on Ufea j modern Reports, I» vols. London edi- s ou
tion. a'
H. and P. Rica «pe<3 ta receive by the firft ar- Qn
J rival from Navr-York the 6th vol. complete of
Durnford and Eift's Reports, the »d part of Oil- m)
j. bert'sl.aw of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
new publications. [■ ir
' J "" et6 - pri
The History of Pennsylvania, _
, Jsy ROBERT PROUD,
IS now in the prefi, and will be published,
with all convenient expedition, by Zicha- /
- riah PouLSoNf jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreat, Z
Philadelphia, where fubfcri prions will continue au
to be received, audat the Philadelphia Library, th
according to the printed proposals, until tha 1«>
r work ia ready for the fubferibera.
1, J u 'y lß - » awtf p.
The fartnerihip, fl.
UNDER the firm of FREEMAN Company,
it dissolved by mutual confeat. All persons 1 ni
'* having any demands againtl the said House are de- I nl
y fired to render the lame to T. B. Freeman ; and J
d those indebted to the House are desired to make pay- I l *
meat to him—By whom bafinefs will in future be j "
f- carried on, at his Store, No. 39,S«uth Front-fireet. «
Augtf 7 «od4W 11
0 Richard and James Potter
f HAVE removed their Counting House to N«. I
45, South Fifth-ftr««t.
:h August %. w&f6t I
Lane after, Harrifiurgb Carlijle,
r Sbippenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
;r . rpHE public tre reqtiefted to take notice, that I <
I. the partnerlhip which has far some tima sub- 1
filled betwean Mathias Slough of Lancaster, and |
William Geer, is now dissolved: bat, not as M. I
j," Slough infinaatesto the public without just cause ; I
as will more fully appear by a letter an the sub- |
je& from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 19th
Deiember last. a recital of which is aot now deem- I
cd necessary. Any gentleman who wishes to be I
more circumstantially infarmed of the merits of I
nd this business, by applying to W. Geer may have j
°f the perusal as M. Slough's letter, and then can be j
°f at full liberty to determine whether or not W. J
Geer is not perfe&ly juftifiable in attaching him- I
the felf to any other person in the profession of the I
for Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf-I
urg, or any other place,
on Now from tbe liberal and generous fapport the I
public wefe pleased to confer oa the fir ft effort in j
cts, this business, William Seer, in conjunction with
ily. MefTrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
to toprofecnte and carry it on, with every care, at- I
tention anddifpatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
to lie can possibly exert. |
The above company, who are amply provided I
~1 with carriages, borfes, and every appurtenance to |
render the pafTage fafe and romniodious, inform
. f those wnt) wifb to patroriite and enoourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
„ G«orge Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
* ett Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg,
Carlisle and Shippenfburg. The fare as hitherto
roat established. ..
For the further accommodation ol thp public,
the agt e w i)l start every Wednesday from the house
or g e of Samuel Elder, m Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland tounty, every Thurlday,
Vine an d return from thoce and arrive at Harrifburg
every Saturday, so tbat paflengcrs destined lor
tful- Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed oa Mon
reet, diy% ' WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster, Jan. 17, 1797-
:t of N. B- Line of Stages starts from thi
house of William Ferrac, in Lancaster, on every
S. Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 o'cloik, pro-
Fifth ceeding to the westward; and from the h..uf- of
Mr Samuel Elder in Harrifburg every Wednef
ilnut day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns
1 and from thence on every Thursday : performinj the
fame routina daily as in tour from i-hilaccl
mwf
m P h,a *
Advertisement.
On the 20th of November next in Alexandria Andtc
(being court day), will be expoied for sale one
or more covering Jacks, and several young
ones of different a,;e9 "id 6®es ; all descended UvJ'
from Royal Gift (an imported Jack from
upwards of t 5 hands high) out of imported "Th
Jinnies from Malta, full 14 hands high.
The terms of sale (or it not lold, of letting Inwl
thein for one or more feifons to cower) will y
then bemad# kr.o*/n: the payments may be Lj£( .
made easy to the purehafer, hond i'ecurity
being giveft for the amount, \yith interelt.
At the fame time and place, sundry Thj
Horfts and Mares will be offered for sale. The 0 f ;
latter having been to the Jacks, ire probably unite
with foal. pgrfor
JAMES ANDEUSON, Man;ger.
gap izi
ount-Vernon, 2cth refper
September, S ''' >■ raw4w Monr
lufurance Cohipan) of the State [ c e f u f!
of Pennsylvania.
'"r'HE office Will'be kept until further Notice at '
I the School House in Gemantown. The oj - t j )!
Company still retain the room in Chefnut, above
Seventh street, where a person will attend to re-
ciive and give answers to applications, »very day eASU
from 10 until I o'clock.
Sept. 13. dstiawtf ,
'Thomas Armat and Son,
OF PHILADELPHIA,
INFORM their customers aad the public, they 5 .
have removed a part of their merchandize ta
Wilmijigton : Also, th*y htve tlkeir (lore open in fee
the city. jU either place their friends can be sup- b, " is
plied, and their Aders carefully attended to •
By the Cumberland, from Hull, they have re- tlle '
ceived a handsome affertment of atticles, suitable
to the approaching fcafon ; and expert to add to it
by other fall (hips. , M
Should the sickness prevail in the central part of (< "
the city, that branch of their business will be re»
moved to Gernianlown. u w
J5" The communication by post is open and r»-
gular as usual. .. .
8 Sept. »8. thrf
TO BE SOTDTERT CHEAP /
A Light WAGGON almost new, with a frame — et#rs
and a pair of har.cfs (Englifli collars) has never tione
been used—price 90 Dolls.
A HorCe 16 hands high, seven years «ld— and a ,
new chair, with a falling top and harnefs—32o. Ju
Enquire No. 331, Market-street
Auguft24. dlw n
Fcr sale or to~be let on ground
rent, L
A valuable Lot of Ortund ; c#rn
SITUATE on the north-esft corner of WaU ;e|]
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State* moy
Ifoufe square. This lot is fifty-one, feet front ,
en Walnut flreet, and one hundred and thirteen nef§
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at
present two small two flory brick hcufes, and a
number of small.tenements thereon. T«
Alf», fir Salt, by 1
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, he. fitnate on
Water-llieet, between Mulberry apd SilTifras
streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east- '"l™
ward nine:y-fi»e feet, then widening to the £
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses SAI
avt the convenience of a public alley adjoining j tioi
1 on the north fide, and are a very desirable fitua- eou
tion for a merchant, four fatfor.or others who foui
r may have occasion for storage of goods. This d»»
property will be. fpld ou very reasonable twms |
for.ca(h. , For further information apply to the
printer. 0 I ' j
July jr. p„
TO BE SO L D, dra
, And pojfejfian given immediately, 1
T A LAROE r-vo story brick Houfe.handfonsely 1 Bil
, J\ situated 1- i-rinceton. There are four rooms utn
r aad a large ent-ry on each floor, And five rooms in I J
the garret, a range of back buildings 51 feet in 1
a length, and apiariaof Jj7 feet There is a pump
in the yard, an excelKut kitchen garden, at the
farther end of which are a carriage house aad two
- 1 Sables, one of which is new, 44 feet long, with 1
I flails in the two stables for 1? horses. The heat 1
thiaefs and pleasantness U its situation, and th«
I number ©f genteel and agreeable families in and .
. 1 near the town, reader it a desirable retreeat for a I
j gentleman from the city. The commodioufnefs of ,
the house, its central polition, and the largeness of
" the (tables,make itjevery way suitable fora tavern,for
t j which it has »lway» been confiderd as a capital 1 _
1 (land. Inquire on the pretnifes, of ..I
ISAAC BNOWDEN.
Prineeton, Anf. *S• 29 —diwiwtf I S<
City of VValhington. I
f, SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11, h
I For the Improvement of the Federal 6ity.
I A magnificent dwelling-house ao,ooc dollars, j
lai I h. cash 30,000, are 50,000 I e
ib- I 1 ditto rj.ooo & tiA 2j,00# 40,oo» a
nd I I ditto lj,ooo «e ctlh IJ.ooo 30,000
M. I 1 ditto 10,000 & c*fh to,obo 20,000 _
fe ; I 1 ditto |,ooo & ta(h 5,000 10,000
ib- 1 , ditto 5,0cr0 & aa(h j,ooo 10,1)00
)'h I I cafe prize of H ro.ooo |
m_ I j do. 5,000 each,are • 10,000
I xo do. i,OllO - - jo,ool. 1
I 2c do. 500 - * ".000 ]
V e I 00 do. 100 - • 10,000 1
£ c 200 do. jo - - 10 000 '
■ 400 dO. 25 ' * I0 ' 0 . 00
.1 1,000 do. 20 - 20,000
.„ f ! 15,000 do. 10 • '5®.000
the I 1'»739 Prizes,
in I Blanks. i i
fith I „ ~~
ned J 50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,00 c
at- I "■* ■ ——~
,ub- N. B. Tofivour thofc who may take a quan-
I tity of Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
ided I the »ast drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the iast
e to I but one: .
orm I And approvednotes, feeu»ing payment in either
the I money or prizes, in ten days atter drawing, »i
! at I be received foi a»y number not lefsthan 30 tick
:.rfe, 1 ets. .
lday This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen ®r
Hire, I the private buildings to be eredled in the City ol
icrto I Wafhingtgn*— I Two beautiful defigps are already
leleded for the entire fronts cn two of the public
blic, squares; from these dtawiugMtispropofed toerefl
louse 1 two centrcand 'our corner buildings as foonas pof-
Sun- fible after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
[day, when complete, to the fortunate adventursrs, m
burg the manner def.ribed in the scheme for the Hold
1 for Lottery. A nett deduction of five per cent, will
don- be made to defray the necessary expenses of print
ing, &c. -.-d the surplus wiUbe made a part cl
the fund intemied for the National University, to
1 be eieiled within the city of V'albington.
, thj The real fecurit.esgiven for the payment of the
! vers Brixes, by the President and two Direil
rro- I or 9 of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
f. 0 f I more than half the amount ol the lottery,
d °/ SAMUEL ULODGKT.
t Pa- .5, Tiekets may be had at the Bank ol Colxm
■turn, tOf James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Feter
2- the I Gilman, Softon ; of John H«pkin«, Richmond ;
ladel- rand of RiAard Wills, Cooper s Ferry.
This Day PablHhed,
And to be fold-by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of
Second and Chefnut ftreet9, v
Price $-%tbs of dt Dollar, Exccllf
Observations on certain Documents
Contained i* No. V and VI nf
" The History of the United States for g U p er j,
the year 1796," An inn
In which the c:i acr. or speculation agaihft til
ALEXANDER HAMILTON, A few
Late SitcuKTAiY of the TutASURT, is FULLY Jul)
REFUTED. q
WRITTEN BT BIUS tI r.
This publication presents a concile llatement A
of the base mcan»pra&ifed by the Jacobins of the
United States to afpetfe the characters of those Indi
persons who are eonfidtred'as hoftih: to their difor- 8001
ganizing fcliemes. It also contains the cor- Bui
refpendenu; between Mr. Hamilton and MciTrs. Ban
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venab'e, on the sub- Blm
jeift of the document* atorefaid, and a scries of let- An
ter» from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr Ha
milton, proving beyond the poflibility of a doubt, A b
that the connection between him and Reynolds, Silk
was the rei'ult of a daring eonlpiraey on the part T\y
[ of the latter and hi) alfociates. to extort money.
EA discount of one third from the retail price Bla
e made in favor ot wholefaic purchasers, for Ea{
casu. Orders to be addressed to Mr. 3f oswo. Jav
AwtuJl 25. A <
" No. 188. £
Dtflriß of Pennsylvania, to wit :
. .HE IT REMEMBERED, that on the Au
L ' 5 13 twenty lixth day of July, m the twen-
ty second year of the independence of the United
StaUsof America, Joan Finho, of the said dif*
triil,|jith deposited in this office the title of a book,
the right whereof he claims as proprietor, in the
words following, to wit :
14 Observations on certain documents contained TT'V
" in No. V. and VI. of " The History ol the Unit- JL
" ed States for the year 1796," in which the charge a tten
" of speculation, against Alexander Hamilton, late j e pqu
" Secretary of the Treasury, is fully refuted— ■ few 1
" Written by himfelf" I not 1
In conformity to the a3: of the Congress of the ; wr ot
Ucited States, entituled, "An a<S for the encour- ; t hat
agement of learning, by feenring the copies of | 0 f ,h
maps, charts and books to thr authors aod lyra
eturs of such copies, during 'h* time# thsrein m<isi- acids
tioaed." corta
SAMUEL CALDWELL, T<
CM if lit DiflrM of Pmnf-jlvania. liivei
" July 17- w boys
The Inhabitants of the Diftrift
of Southwark,
ARE informed tliat a Coichee is provided, to b» A
kept at the Conttabks' office, the north east
corner of Front and Almond streets, where the QQ
friends of those sick persons who desire to be re
moved to the City Hospital, are requeued to make
application—Also, a Hcarfe will b/t kept in readi- Just
nef» for the removal of the dead. ,
JONATHAN PENROSE.
1 M. B. The Poor, who wife to remove to the ,
Tents on Schuylkill, may be furnifiied with orders
by applying as above. Aug. 2 9
, William Blackburn, ™
> LOTTERY Attn BROKER'S OFFIG.3 Ho
No. 64 south Secoad-ftreet. 1
- TtCIiBTS in the Canal Lottery, No. 11, which 61,
t X com nunc drawing the 29th May, FOR ftrs
1 SALE. The price of tickets will rife ia propor-
» ! tioa as the drawing advance*, particularly 011 ae- fe<3
■ I count of the five firft drawn tickets, prices of ing
3 four thousand dollars sscji, on the last day ol dec
s | drawing. ..
,i Check Books kept for examination and regi*er- .
e ing, in the Canal, No. 2, City of WafcingtoD, No.
», and Paterfon Lotteries.
Also, tickets for sale is the Schayikillbridge and
- Pcrkomou Bridge lotteries, which will bogin
drawing in the course of the femmer. X>
Thenufineftfof a Broker in all kinds of S*o*k, y gl
y Bills, Notes, Lands, &c- ite. tranfafled with the rel
is utmost attention. ha>
0 Janes - »■>'
" Erfkine's View of the War.
Ie , clu
o JUST PUBLISHED, ha
* By ROBERT CAMPBBLL & Co. da
I .No 40 South Second flrsct,
[Price , 1 Cent.]' fl "
'1 A View of the Causes and Conf&quen-
ess of the prtfentWar with Franee. th
of By the Honorable Thomaj Erskine.
MaVli L I
STATE TRIALS.
Sold b W. Yootro, Bookseller, No. j*. Sontb Se
- I cond-flreet,
The Pennsylvania State Trials, j
I the impeachment, trial, and acquit- j
1 Xal of FrancisHopkinfon, Judge oftbe Court of v
Admir^ty, and John Nicholfon, Complroiler Gen-
I cral—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, 3
I dollar*. . f
y■ VT. Youwo has for sale, a general afUirtment ol {
irs, Books. Also, Stationary, tetnil and by the p«ck- (
000 j well allorted,»nd entitled to' the *(i awback 11
000 I axpartcd. 1 j
000 For Sale,
000 That well known place, called PjHDseßiFT's F
,000 FERRY,
coo /~\N Nelhaminy creek, 18 miles froiji Fhila- _
,000 vJ ladelphia, on the New York post road,
1000 containing 74 aces and 94perchee. Upon the
,000 pretnifits are a large two lleiy stone houie occu
,ooo pied as atvern, and a good one (lory ltone kit
-000 chen, a large frime ft\ble with a good thrcthinfl
: 0 00 floor, and lomc out buildings—also a well ot
doo good water, and an excellent ice lloufe. On
'ooo this place is a most elegant situation fora gentle
' man's feat, commanding a visw of the Nelham
iny to its junflion wiih the Ddajraae, 4nd thence
acroi's to the Jersey Oiofe. ft has the privilege
1 of one half the toll received from the bridge.
Fort#rm,aP a t ORDECA"rL b EW I S.
iuan- Vav ?Uwtf
"be J COLUMIiIA HOUSE
tAST Boarding School for young Ladies,
lither -m /rRS. GROOMBRIDGE with ranch pleas
, will IVX ureand rci'pefl, returns her lincere ac
tick- knowledgement for the liberal eivcourageineat
(he has received during four years refvdenee m
'en Philadelphia; and allures her <nenda arulthe
ity of p U blic, so far from intending to decline her
rcad y lchool, (he has made a luperior arrangement tof
,übl L c the more convenient accommodation o >• i j
' ered frholars —Every branch of ufeful and polite
educati.n is particularly attended to by Mrs.
thcm ' Gwjombridge and masters excelling »n their
ultfl refpefliveprofeffions.
Rfi Cor " er o! " ruce and ilcvcnt 3
J Tbe'n«u»ti«'i. perfeflly heal.ky ; andn,i<le
ty t o more agreeable by an exter.flve garden and lot
of ground adjoining the honte.
!f Ju.l Pub lifted,
Bed at And to be h.td of Messrs. DoWon Campbell,Rice
Gary, and the other pricip-il Bookfcllers in tV.
city .price one dolla'r, twinty-f.vccents,.n boards,
oi«m. New Views of the Origin ot the
Fet ," V Tribes and Nations of America.
10 : By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTbN, m. d.
n*f Jan c 10 • .
Rofi & Simfon x
UAVS PO2 SAL*—
f Hog(heads,
Excellent Coffee in < Tierces, and
C. Parrels.
A (mall parrel of nice cacoa in ba+&
* few puncheons faftiajca fplrits, fotfrth proof
Superior TenerifTec \vinq, old and in Madeira pipec
An invoice of jewellery and hosiery to be fold by
the package
A few hampers of befl checfe.
July 17.
The Sttbfcriber has for Sale,
A large aflortment ef India Muslins,
coarse and fine
India Calicoes
Sooty Roman#
B'ue Cloths and Checks
Bandnnua Handkerchiefs
Blue red and Gilli Handkerchiefs
An -Invoice of Irish. Linens aad Shectiags, welt
assorted
A box of Diapers
Silk Umbrellas
Two boxes of fine Spices, cotaining Nuurwgs,
Mace and Cloves
Black Pepper of fit ft quality
East India Ginger
Java Sugar
A quantity of* Madeira Wind
Ditto of Gin
Roll BrimHoae
Mordecai Lewis.
Auvyfl 11. i*»lm
Higgins' Specific
ro* TUB
PREVENTION AND CURE, OF THE
Xt.LI.QW FEVER.
EVER since this disease made fi.ch ravage* in thi«
i city and New-York, the author has turned hi*
attention to its causes a»d cure —The result of his
j enquiries has convinced him that the rcafoD why so
| few persons recover from its attacks, are seem it*
j not being well underflood, and the eonfequent
! wrong method taken to cure it- He is perfunded
' that theexcelCve bleedigrs and mercuric] rentjneat
| of the Faculty is highly injurious, and that the on
ly rational mode of treatment is by the use of proper
acids. Convinced of this he offers his *£pcrih' as a
certain remedf, if ttfed according to the directions.
To be had in bottles, at one dollar each, of the
inventor Geo. Hlgp", Cherry street, two doors a
bove Ninth street, (late manager of Jackson and
Go's Medicine Warehouse, London); by y.Lc
iliuti,No. 16 ; If. Griffith, No. 17 7, T. Parte, N».
»l, South Third street. T. Slif, No. 55, New ilreet,
near Vine street, and J. Gales t No. 36, Race fireet.
| Aug. aj. tilths jt
: COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, au«
J CONSUMPTIONS.
Just reteivej, by Wm. Grithths,No. I:7, South
Saeoud-ftreet, > frefli fopply of
Genuine Bal/am of Honey,
e A Medicine invented by the late Sir John Hill
* j\. (who knowledge as a Botanist procured him
- the appellation of the Liansus of Britain) and i»
eonfidertd in England as a urtai« cure tor the abov'e
complaints; it is also of fingslar efficacy m the
? Hooping Cough,
It may alfebe had reull of W. A. sto*es,No«
h 61, Bouth Second-ftrqpt., and T< Snir, '5, New
[l street, in bottles at 75 cents each,
r- Wm. Griffiths having observed the happy e£-
fcift of the medicine, (several cases of cures ha-F
---»l icg come within hie own knowledge) and the great
>i demand if or it has induced him to order a large
supply, a part »t which he has jaft reeeived.
r- Au/vjt 3. l»"3"
30 Dollars Reward.
is nAN away on Saturday l*ft. two indented 9er
v«nts, S.Derd Dally, a mulatto toy, alxwe 1 y
k, years of age, a Aim light built adive fellow, cart
ie read and write,five feet seven or eight inches high,
Kan a heavy countenance ; had on a fuftian coatee
__ and trowfers, a high crowned hat, fine (hoes &c.
Alhui Hellona, a black mm, about 14 years of
age, five feet seven or eight inches high,* thick set
cluvff built fallow, particularly about the breech 5
ha*on a sailor's blue jaekit lined with fwaoltin,
dark striped vtft, fuftian trowfers, high crowned
hat, eoarfe fhttes, Sec. •, each of them had several
shirts and several other cloathes with thero. Thir
ty Dollars will be paid for the runaways, or 15 dol- _
lira for each, and rcafonable charges, ob delivering
e. them at No. 54, North ThirJ-ftreet.
Th» black fellow is about a year from Lewis
Town, in the County of Sussex, ft3te of -l>tla
ware, and hat taken the boy with him.
July 31. mtufrfgw
a.- To be SOLD or RENTED,
A LARGE 3 Story Brick House, on the
South fide of Filbert street, between
»■«- Eighth and Ninth, lately occupied a« the S«r
tof veyor General's Office.
;e0 " The Building it 36 feet front and 35 feet deep,
*• 3 the lot fto feet deep, with the privilege of a nine
, feet wide Alley extending the whole length of
,t ' ,t the lot, to a thirty feet wide Court for Carries
*h 'f I ® li * n ' n * The Houfc is not plastered, and
1 may be turned either into one, or two dwellisp
Houfes. It isfuitable for a large Manufactory,
jor would make 2 good Tavern. Immediate
'f's I poiTeffiOH will be given,
Apply to Wo. HI, Cliefn\it-Sfree>.
ilia- Awg.ai. , ■
Mu/ual Injlrument Manufactory
ecu! No. 167, ylrch Street.
kit- T TARPER,harpfichord,grand, portable gfan'S
hirw 11 fid»-board, pier table and fquu e piano (or*
il of I m »ki r from London, returns thanks to his frienda
0n and the public, for the>t liberal encouragement
V I and hopes that by his sflic'uity and arunticn to ev
ery branch of his butnefs, to n.trit a
um " of their favors. Piano fortes made on th« new eft
I and mot approvc4 plans, with pedaW, patent,
ge swell, and French harp stop, which he flatten
5 e - I himfelf will oe found on uir.l by unprejudiceii
judges, to be equal if not fuporiorto any import
'• led, and rwenty per cent cheaper. Any iriilru
tf- j mi?nt purchased of him, ii not approved of in
I twelve months, he will exchange.
I N. E. Ajl kinds of Musical mftruments
ieS - uned, and repaired with the greauft accuracy,
jleaf- I dispatch, and on the nioft reaionab-le ternit, l*.r
e ac- I ready tponcy only.
meet Second hind Piano taken in exchange,
ice in I May ic. l^ctnl '
jfcrl forty Dollars Reward.
Nt sot y> an away from the Cubfcriber 011 the fee!
f her 4.X. ottddlyof tl>is inlt- July, a Mulatto Mm,
polite Tiametl Will'Bowzer, about forty years of a ge,
Mrs. j five feet seven or cig'ut inches high, ratller
their I chunky made j had on when he went auaj > a
drab colored Clpth coat, llriped purple trowitra
ets. and jacket. It is probable he will change his
ifff cloathes, as he took a number with him. TJur
mVle 1 j'jul felfow formerly belonged to Mr. Charles
nd Bi 3 ice of this place ; and it is expected he has
made Uwards Jones's Neck, in the Delaware
I g tatc Any perl't n apprehending ihe »id > tcl-
Icw and securing him f" that I can get hiro
l.Riee, {hall receive the above leward tak-m
out of the county, and Twenty Dollars if in
boards, 1 (he cpun ,y ( a «d all reasonable charges il bro t
: the JESSE REID.
i n * Queen Anas» Cou»tj-, Maryhuid'
'• 6t July 3- yKit '