of tue States, and JPhiladelph ia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1490 j
For Sale,
The fine and remarkably fall
Virginia Philadelphia
Burthen about 100 tons. For terms apply to
Rofs Ss 5 Simfon.
June 11. dtf
• For St. Thomas,
THE SHIP
]&®j: Ann and fVfary,
Captain Buns ;
WILL (ail in ten days. For
freight or parage apply to
F, COPPINGER.
Nt. 221, South Front Jlreet.
June 9. diot
jCZr or Sale,
A c tjVE,
0 n jcth infU-at the Coffe
e at 7 o'clock, P. M, as Ihe came from sea :
flw it known to be a f*ft sailer. Any particular in
formation may be had t>n application to Capt. Bing
ham on boaid laid brig, at Mcir Jtrfle and Robert
Wain's Wharf, to John Piankinhoro, or Ttvjmas
Siewait. Inventory ro be seen and terms of pay
ment to be made known at the time of sale.
June 8. tf
For London,
THE SHIP
gjygg WILLIAM PENN, b
Jamks Josiah, Mafier. , n
WILL fail with all convenient speed. For
freight orpafTage apply to
JejJe y Robert Wain.
May 19 §
For Sale,
The cargo of the brig Enterprize, Captain
langdon from Bourdeaux, now landing at
( • Morton's %>harf,
CONSITING or
524 hhds. of Claret 1 2 j
ai; cases of ditto I -a
wo Ciifes of Sweet Oil h " c
1.0 pipes London proof ) erANDY. | S ,
10 pipes of Holland proof 3 J w t
Apply to 1
Wharton S3 9 Lewis, j
No. 115, South Front St. / (
Said Brig, <
WILL tike a freight f ? r '
the Weft-Indies or Europe, fails ,
fall, burthen about fifteen hun- '
SSilo&SaSfetfSdred barrels, is in complete or- ■
dtr, and will be ready to receive a carg& in a
ftw days
Apply as abovt. t
May 24
For Sale or Charter,
■■ THE SHIP
jiißW w'a rre n,
A Benjamin Church, Mafier.
O? about 280 to*s burthen. En
-4 - quire of
jeffe £if Robert Waln-
May 16 5
JohnTarris, mafier.
A GREAT part of her cargo is engaged, and
Ihe will fail in ten days. For freight orpal
fage apply to capt. Tarris, at
wharf, or to GUkNET & SMITH.
May 25 $
V* for Freight or (Charter,
i "^ r jg. F am e,
i FRANCIS KNOX, Master:
A flrong, excellent velfcl, has been jult (heathed and
ready to receive a cargo She will carry 2 000 bar
rels, has good accommodations so paflengers.
Apply to
Capt. Knox, or to
Kearny Wharton.
Jane 6. 6p
~ HAY.
A Quantity of excellent Old and New Hay to
be had at Peel Hall Farm on the Wiffahickon
Road, about 2 miles from the City.
Also, A QUANTITY OF BUILDING STONE.
June 8 s6t
FASHION AND CHEAPNESS.
INTELLIGENCE TO THE LADIES.
TCSV received from London, two' trunks of ele
gant BRUNSWICK KID Ladies' Shoes, of the
molt (alhionable cauein» and ihape now worn in
thftcity, and will be fold ctf immediately in (mail
efuantities, at fitftccft, forcafh, at Mrs. ENEFER's,
No. 105 Walnut street, between Third an/i Fourth
tlrec:s.
Tht above was purchased of Mr. Fox, in
Piccadilly, who manufactures for most of the nobi
lity, and will be warranted good.
June 13 H3t
John Miller, jun. & Co
Have received per the India, AJhmead, from
Calcutta,
A veil assorted / 'mail Invoice tf
Gurrahs
Baftas
CofTaes
Calicoes
Bengal Stripes
Laid in remarkably low, which t>ey will fell for
calh or short credit ou very advantageous terms.
June 5. d2wfri4th
George Dobfon,
No. 25 South Third-Street,
HAS imported per fbips William Pcnn, Starr,
;«.d Diana, from London,
C-4 Super London Chitits, elegant patterns,
Ginghams, Mufllnetts and Dimity's.
Vafllojable Waiftcoating, newest . litems.
Ribbands well assorted, in small trunks.
4-4 5-4 and 6-4 India and Briti(h iJjok-nauf
lins.
Fancy Cloaihs and Cafiamiers.'
Th« whole to be disposed of cheap for Calh
ct approved Notes of a (horr date.
June »4> '97•
PHILADELPHIA; SATURDAY EVENING, JUNE 17, 1797.
A Quantity of Brandy,
Fli'ST & xd proof, „
Gin, of 4«h proof, in p : p?s A
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds ,j d
Old Hock, in. cases of 40 dozen each it
Glass TumMerf, in pints and hilf-pinrs l<
Window Glafii, in boxes, of different lizes si
Hizlenuts, in ftrks
Whiting
w°hTu,d \ '»"«•
Sc Spaniflj Brown J
For Sale by
PETER BLIGHT. c
January 4 * * <S. tl
Rofs & Simfon,
' C
Have for Sale,
A QUANTITY OF PRIM£
St. Domingo Cotton, ,
Superior Old Lilbcrti Wine in Pipes '
Excellent India Matket
Teneriffe Wine, o
In Madeira Calks
A few Quarter Chefls best
Fresh Hylon and ) . „
Hyson Skin 5 rEA!>
Muscovado Sugars m Hogsheads, and
Coffee in Tierces
March 7. j|rf
Houfhold Furniture.
\TOW felling by private lale, No. 17 Dock-
JL\ street confiftingol chairs, tables, looking
glafiea, bureaus hand and fire irons, bedfecads,
leather-bed 6, carpets, bedding, window curtains,
bed and table linen, kitchen furniture, &c. The J
whole in good order, and has only been a few
months in use.
The sale to continue daily 'till the whole is fold.
June z §
St. Übes Salt. =
3000 bushels St. Übes SALT, for sale by '
Philips, Cramond, £sf Co.
June 12. jt
C. E. Whitlock, I
DENTIST,
RESPECTFULLY informs the Ladies and Geo. 41
tlemen of Philadelphia and its vicinity, that he
continues to perform all operations on the Teeth ; sup- 1
plies the deficiencies of nature with artificial or real
teeth, in all the various modes of fixing—Cleans,
files, regulates, e'xtra&s, and fills decayed teeth with
gold or lead, &c. &c. He waits upoo Ladies and
Gentlemen at their houses, and will Be happy to re- j
ceive their commands by note, at Mrs. Finch's, No.
6& north Eighth street, or at his house. next to the
Black Horse Tavern, on the Frankford road.
Dollars.
Scaling and cleaning 5
Artificial teeth, with enamel, per tooth, 5
Do. in gold focketsor screws 7 i
Natural icethwith ligatures 7
Do. on gold or ivory lockets, or gold screws 10
Filing and cutfing away decay—each decay 1 '
Filling with gold 2
Do. with lead i
Eotraftingfto the families who employ him
as dentist) 1
Do. where not employed *
Tooth powder of his own preparing 1
lirufties, best London manufa&ure 25 cent?.
Regulating, &c. according to the operation.
*»* C- Whitlock will fell the time of a Negro
Man ;—he is Honest and fobcr, and has about 5 yeers
and a half to serve. Enquire as above.
June 15
Printed Calicoes.
JOHNMILLER, Jun. & Co.
No. 8 Chefnut-Street,
Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly assorted, very low on
(hort credit. v ■
March 6. §
PennfylvaniaPopulation Company.
NOTICE is hereby given to the Share Hold
ers, that a further affefftnent of nine dol
lars is levied on each (hare, payable as follows,
viz.
Six Dollars immediately, and
Three Dollars on the ift of July next.
Which they are requested to pay to the Treasu
rer of the Company, at the Company's Office,
No. 53, North Fourth-llreet, agreeably to the
times above mentioned ; and they are further
informed, that on their negle£li«g to pa the
fame as above dlre&ed, the fevera 1 forfeitures
will be exacted.
By order of the Board,
SOL. MAKACHE, Treifurer.
May 17. djot
Grattan and Comp.
D Efpetflfully inform their friends, that they have
1\ imported from London per the Ihip Star, a
large assortment of
PERFUMERY,
Which is no w opened fgr sale at their House, N..
191 Market-llreet.
Also, a new affoi tuient of ready-made gentle
i men's linen, Hurts from 2 dollars each to 8 dollars,
[ &c. See. See.
Ladies and gentlemen are accommodated with
| board and lodging at ten Dollars each.
Tftole Gentlemen who have their ovyn private
1 lodgings, may be accommodated with dinner only,
by the week or month.
June 5 (>t
To be fold,
The time of aftaut hearty young NEGRO MAN,
1 who has upwards of four years to serve. Enquire
at No. 15, Dock-street.
June 13. dtw
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quility, ind cheaper than »ny other in
the City—
r ,OF VARIOUS SIZES,
From 8 by 6 to 19 by 14,
By the single Box or Quantity, may be had at the
S'ore of the Subscribers, corner ot Arch and Front
it reet.
James C. & Samuel W. Fijher.
Philadelphia, June 9, 1797.
For sale,
A tair of very htmdfome
Bay Horses,
Near fixtcen hands high, well broke, and »er
'* fcfily gentle. Enquire at Mr. Kelson's (tables,
Church-alley.
Also, far Sale,
A Chariot and plated Harness.
June 13. diop
By John Fenno, N°- 119 Chefnut Street.
NOTICE.
THE co-p^rtnerfhipof WilliamYoune, John MiiU, I
and John Mi !s, jun. Bookiellcrs and Stationers, un- C
der the firm of W. Young, Mills and Son, is this j
day diiTolved by mutual consent. si. 1] person* indebted d
to the copartnerfliip arc requeued to make payment n
to William Younjf, and those having demands arede
fired to produce their accounts for settlement.
William Toung,
John Mills,
John Mills, jun. „
Philadelohia, June 6th, 179,7.
w. youNg 0
Contiaues the bookselling and ftationa»y business at
the usual place, wholefqle and retail, where he has a
now a very large aflbrtment of
Writing and Printing Papers and Booh,
Of which catalogues with the prices affixed are de- _
livered gratis*
■ Wanted, (
A person well qualified in the book felling and (Ta
tionary buflnefs. Applications will be received till
the firft July next, at No. 52, south Second-street,
corner of Chefnut-ftrect. <
June 6. d7P -
Just Received,
From Batavia (via Providence)
X7O Sacks of Java Coffee of firft quility
200 half sacks do. do.
a few Boxes of Spices, coafifting of
Nutmegs, Cloves and Mace
For sale by ,
KILLINGS & FRANCIS,
Pcnitoftrcet.
way 30 dtf
For Sale, a new threeJlory Brick
House.
AT the Mercl ants Coffee House, on Friday j
next,, the 16th inft. at half past 8 o'clock .
in the evening, will be fold by Public Vendue,
a genteel three (lory brick House ;it is plfafant- .
ly .situated on the South fide of Arch Street, the
fourth house above Fourth street. ,
It may be vrt wed any time before the sale.
Twms are, one fourth in approved notes of '
60 days, and therefidue if required may remain
seven years, on security and ifttereft annually.
Sold clear of all incumbrances, and immedi- (
ate pofleffion may be given.
Further particulars will be tnade known at 1
the time of sale, dy
Richard. Footman & Co.
Auctioneers. 1
June it. dst' ]
Pennsylvania Population Com- !
pany.
NOTICE is hereby given to the Sharehold
ers, that a further aiTeffment of fifteen '
dollars is levied on each (hare, payable in the <
following inflalments—viz. 3
One quarter immediately. 1
One quarter on the id of June.
One quarter ou the ift September. 1
One quarter 011 the ift Dec. next. 1
Which they are requested to pay to the Trea
surer of the Company at the Company's Office,
No. 53 north Fourth street, agreeably to the
times above mentioned ; and they are further
informed that on tKeir ragfltdlisg to ~p4y the -
fame as above direfled, the several forfeitures
dire<Sled by the Conllitution, willl be exaded.
By order of the Board,
SOL. MARACHE,
Treasurer.
May i t §im
To be Sold,
A large and convenient
Three Story Brick House; .
SITU ATE atfhc north-east corner of Arch and
Fourth-street?. It contains eighteen rooms—
and is in every refpeft well finifhed. For particu
lars enquire of
M. Kcppele,
No. 138, Chefnut-ftreet.
May 31. $
.Erfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No 40 South Second street,
[Price 31 Cents]
A View of the Causes and Confeqiten
ces of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Ekskine.
May 15 §
JOHN CRAIG
HAS just imported from Rotterdam, via St.
Thomas, and far sale on reasonable terns
by the package
Platillas Royal
Haerlem and German linens
Rouens
Post and Pro Patria Paper
Wafers
Quills
' Oziers for Hoops, in Bundles
Coffee Bags
He has also for Sale,
Best Red Clover Seed
' Old Madeira Wine, fit for immediate use
Teneriffe Wine of firft and second Quality
Coffee in Bags and Hogflieads
Jamaica Spirits
Connedlicut Turpentine Soap
, Window Glass
: Two Trunks of best Patent, Silk and Cotton
Hosiery
April 18. 4"w
WALKER W KENNEDY,
No. 73, South Front Street,
Have for Sale,
Virginia Tobacco, of the Richmond Inspec
tion
e 3jo bbls. Vi. ginia'Flour and Middlings
500 bulhels Wheat
■j calks Ginfang.
ALSO,
Three cases Rouens Linens, entitled to the
drawback
aro pieces Bandannoes, and
ioocadies Indij Sewing Silk.
June 15. thswjt
To Let,
THE BUILDING now occupied by the Bank
op thi Unitid Statss. For terms en
quire ©f Edward Oarrigues, No 39, Chcrry-ftrect
N. B. Also a Urge, convenient Cellar in a good
situation : Apply as above.
June 15 cot s
The sale of 40931 1-2 acres of
Land on the waters of VV healing and Filhing
Creelts, in Washington county, advertised for J
15th irrfV. is postponed to a iuture day, of which a
due notice will be given, if a prfvate sale does a
not take place. x 3 l f
June 12. i
Poft-OfTice, 23d May, 1797-
THE Mail for Baltimore will be ciofed at this of-
sice every morning (Sundays excepted) at half part 7 c
o'clock. a
The Mail fcr Boston will be ciofed every day (
(Sundaysexcepted)a' o'clock noon ; and c
The Mail for Frederica, MilfoTd, Glowcs,
rough, Delaware, Horntowu, Accomack Court-House
and Northampton Court-Houi'e, Virginia, will be
doled every Monday morning at half pad 7 o'clock. |
May 23 *iat
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED, „
(Neatly bound and lettered, price 2 dols. 25 cts.}
By G. DECOMBAZ,
BOOKSELLER, i? STATIONER,
No, 48, North Third Street,
Ihe Adventures of Telemacbus.
French and Engliila, 2 vols. uino.
AMONG the books which daily fall ißto the
hands of the yeuth of both l'txes, none
have a higher claim to their attentionthan Tele
machus. The most interefling lefltms are here
conveyed in the vehicle of an mterefting Poem. ]
replete with the linell touches of tlie true pa- j
thctic, and embellfhed with all tbe graces of a c
beautiful ftyie. The fatal effeils of indulging S
the paflions are exemplified in the most linking 1
manner; and the happiness atteiding inno- F
cence and virtue painted in the liveiielt colours, t
Whatever can incite to virtue or deter from
vice ; whatever can enlighten the understand- 1
ing, charm the imagination, and improve the
heart, is to be found in this interesting work. jj
THE NAVAL~GAZETTEER; c
Being a complete Geographical Dictionary, v
containing a full and accurate account, alpha- j
betically arranged, of all the countries and ill- ,
ands in the known world ; Ihowing their lati- f
ude, foundings, and stations for anchorage ;
M?ith a particular description of the feveralßavs,
Capes, Channels, Coves, Creeks, Currents, ■'
Gulfs, Harbours, Havens, Lakes, Oceans, Ra- '
ces, Rivers, Roads, Rocks, Sands, Shoals, '
Sounds, Straits, Tides, Variation of the Com- "
pass &c.. Together with a particular relation '
of the fliape and appearance at sea, of the fev«-
ral Headlands, Isthmuses, Peninsulas, Points, |
Promontories, and whatever is of ufp or impor- (
tance to the Master, Pilot, Commander, or (
Seaman of any Ihip or vcflel, in navigating the (
watery element. ,
Also. Comprehending ,
Ample Direflions for tailing into or out of the <
different Ports, Strait», and Harbours of the c
four quarters of the world ; and for avoiding •
dangers on the various and extended coasts ; in <
whieh more than twelvethoufand diftinfl names •
of places, are treated of and explained. With •
a correfk set of Charts, a vols. Bvo. price 6 dols. «
By the Rev, JOHN MALHAM,
This has been pronounced the most use- '
ful and the cheapelt book publilhed in America. '
June 0- d'f-
COLUMBIA HOUSE 1
Boarding School for young Ladies. '
MRS. GI\OOM3RIDGE with much pleas- \
ure and refpeifl, returns her fmcere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
(he has received during four years residence ia
Philadelphia; and allures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, she has made a superior arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars. —Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended to by' Mrs.
Groombridge and masters excelling in their
refpeilive profi'flions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797- {imllf
The fitiiatiun is perfe&ly healthy ; and made
more agreeable by an exteiilive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the house.
For Sale,
ON board the (hip Mollv, John Frost, mafier
from Liverpool, laying at Walnut-street wharf
6000 bushels of tine ftoved Salt,
And QUiiEN'S WARE, well assorted,
By PtilLIP NICKLIN & Co.
WHO HAVE IN STORE, ALSO FOR SALE,
100 Boxes WhiteHavanna Sugars
Imperial and > T
Hyson )
17 tubs Quick silver
a cherts Bandanno Handkerchiefs
A few chests Manchester Goods well aftorted
in corduroys, thicksets, ginghams, muflinets,
dimities, &c. 2 Trunks black sewing silk,
180 Crates queens ware, well assorted,
10 Tons lead,
Nails assorted, fiat and (harp points,
London particular and > Madeira Wine in
India market ) pipes and hhds.
30 pipes, 10 hhds. Teneriffe Wine,
10 pipes choice Port ditto,
31 calks yellow paint,
7 boxes 12 bundles writing dates,
1 box ink-stands Se note presses,
Sail canvas assorted No. 1 a 8.
May 4. dtf
Millinery Room,
i No. 136 Mariet-Jlreet.
MISS CHRTSTAL
TAKES an early opportunity of acquainting
her Friends that (lie has received by the
William PenN, a variety ps NEW MfL
LINERY, &c. which (he hopes to be able to
• (hew them in a few days.
May 18 • f.iot
A FEW BOXES OF
Bologna Saufapes,
e OF A SUPERIOR QUALITY,
To be fold at No. 199 South Front-Street.
Aprilto, eotf
THE MEMBERS OF
The Philadelphia Chemical So
ciety,
K ARE earnestly r r quefted to attend at their Chemi
cal Laboratory, on Saturday next, June 17th, at 4
t clock in the afternoon, on hufmefaot importance*
j! By Order of the Society 9
THOMAS HORSFIELD, Sec'y.
June 15.
The Commiflioners
FOR carrying into effea the TWENTY-FIRST
Article of the Treaty ef Fr:end(hip, Limits,
and Navigation, between His Catholic Majesty
and the United Stater of America, hereby give in
formation to all Persons therein concerned That,
in order to terminate a',l diflerericei, on account of
the leffes fudaiiled by the Citizens of the United
States, in tonfequence of their VefleU and Car
goes having b-en taken by the SuhjevSsof His Cath
olic MajeOy, during the late War between Spain
and France, that they are ready to receive (at their
Office, between the hour> of ten and one o'clock,
daily) all complaints and applications, authorize!
by the said Article, during Eighteen Months,
from the day of the date hereof, and that they have
power to examine all such persons as torn - before
them, 011 oath or affirmation, touching the com
plaints in qUestion, and also to receive In evidence,
all written testimony, authenticated in fnch man
ner as they {hall think proper to require or admit.
By Order of the Comm'ljjrmers,
PETER LOHRA.
Secretary.
C mmtflionrrs Office, Aa. 109, Mulb:rry
rtet, Philadelphia, May < -lb, 1*97.
ao—{4W
The Commiflioners
Ip OR. carrying into effect the fi*th article of tlie
treaty of amity,commerce a*dnavigation4eon
ciuded between his Britannic majesty and tke Urited
•States of Amtfiea, «n the 19th day of November,
1794, having this day conltituted tlteir Board,
pursuant and agreeably to the said treaty, do here
by give notice, that they arcxeidy to proceed to
business accordingly; andthey desire that all claims
under the said article (which so far asthe fame de
scribes the cases thereby provided for, is hereunto
annexed) may be lodged with their Secretary, with*
out delay.
They further desire that all such claims may not
only state in what manner the several cases come
within the deferiptiou of the said article, but also
fpecial'y set forth .he nature of the evidence by
which the claimants refpeitively undertake tefuh*
ftantiate the fame.
Exjra<sfc from thfe said article,
" Whereas it is alledged by divers Britifti mer
" chant?, and others his majesty's fubje&s, thaC
" debts to a confidt rablu amount, which were bona
" fide contraded, before the peace, still remain
" owing to them by citizens or iahabitants of the
44 United States ; and that by the operation of va
w rious lawful impediments, since the peace, not
44 only the full recovery of the said debts has been
44 delayed, but also the val*ie and security thereof
" have been in several instances impaired and leff
-44 ened, so that by the ordinary course of judicial
44 proceedings, the British creditors cannot now
44 obtain and a&ually have and receive full and
il adequate compenfution for the losses and darua-
M ges which tney have thereby fufcained: It is a
-44 greed that in all such cases where full compenfa
u tion for such losses and damages cannot for what
-44 ever reason be a&ually obtained, had and recei
" ved by the said creditors in the ordinapy 'course
44 of justice, the United States will make full and
" complete compensation for the fame to the said
<c creditors : but it is diftin&ly understood, that
this provision is to extend to such losses only as
t( have been occasioned by the lawful impediments
u aforefaid, and is not to extend to losses occafion
-44 ed by such infolventy of the debtors or other
" caufcs, as would equally have operated to pro
u duce such loss, if the said impediments had not
44 existed ; nor to furh losses or damages us have
•• been occasioned by the manifeft delay, or neglii
'• j,encc, or wilful omiflion of the claimant.*'
jßy order of the Board,
GRIFFITH EVANS,
Secretary,
Philadelphia, Commissioners* Office,
No. 3 fouthSixth-ftrcet, May 29,
1797. J 6—§xm
r HE SUBSCRIBER having been appointed by
the Envoy Extraordinary and Miniller Pleni
potentiary of his Britannic Majesty, General Agave
{or aflifting British creditors, and such particular'a
gents as they may specially authorize, in prosecuting
their claims before the c«mmiflioners for carrying in
to effefl tine sixth article ot the Treaty of Amity. Com
merce and Navigation between his Britannic Majcjly and
the United States of America, hereby gives nonce that
he has opened his office at his koufc the south east
corner of Chefnut and fiftU streets, Philadelphia,
where he is ready to receive all claims or inttru&ioni
for claims with the vouchers aud document® thereof,
lor the purpose of bringing forward the fame agree
ably so the rules and orders which the board may
think proper to prescribe.
And as it will be for the interest of al! concerned,
that the several claims be so stated, and support
ed, as to prevent the delay which would arile from
the neceflityof obtaining further information, or ad*
ditional materials,from persons residing at a distance,
the general agent thinks it his duty to add, (for the
dire&ion chiefly of thofr, who, not having employ
ed particular agents, may leave the prosecution of
their claims to his charge and management) that all
such claims ought in particular to set forth—
»ft. The proper defcripiiou and fitnation of the
creditor or claimant, end original debtor, refpe£U
ively.
sd. The date or nature of the original contrail or
debt.
3d. When, in what manner, and to what extent,
the creditor or claimant w*s prevented or impeded,
by the provision, operation or defeat of law, the
decisions and practice of courts, or restraint of exe
cution, from recovering payment of the debt i.i
question.
4th. The loss and damage incurred or sustained,
in tonfequence of such impediments, whether rhe
fame may have trifen from the infolveney, change of
fuuation, or dei h of the debtor, the iofs ot legal
remedy from lapse of time, or othercaufes impsirieg
the value and hcurityof the debt, which would not
have (0 operated if such imped jments had not existed.
And sth Tiie particular grounds and reafens on
which the claimant maintains, in the terms of the
treaty, that 41 bythe ordinary course of judicial pro
r ings, the creditor cannot now obtain and a&ually
e have and receive full and adequate compensation" lor
the losses and ages so fuftdiued.
3 The generaixgent thinks it his duty further to f*£-
geft that the frvoial claims ought 10 be accompanied
and fupportcd by the sfftdavits of the claimant* duly
sworn and rcguiariy atiefted, both as to the existence
of the debts cliimed, and such other circumstances
as may ba within their own knowledge relpettively.
\n& wherever the claimants in the nature of
their evidence (which must in every tdftaqce be the
best ot which the cafe is capable) have occasion to
lefer to the testimony of witnesses, it will be proper
to a^pri£e the general agent of the names and places
of residence of such witnesses and the fa&sto be eiia
blifhcd by tbeir testimony*
Wm. Moore Smith.
| Philadelphia, June B.h, <797. dim
• «
New-England Rum,
In Hogflieada *cd Barreli, forfaletv
EZEKIEL HALL.
p June 7. 4t-
[Volume XI.C O N 0 K .£ s S. of
HOUSE or fcEPREsEtfTATIVE3, " r "
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 14.' fell
r Concluded from T 'rarfd'ty j if t
Mr. Dayton (the Speaker) denied that p «i
the debtor States were deprived of any as- pe<
iftance from the sum already agreed to be bll
appropriated generally. If the gentleman
hoi read the firft clause of the bill he had , t(<
differed his -warmth to overcome his memary, , j| (
as he there mull fee this wrt.i not the cafe.— ' (h.
With refpeft to obtaining a ctffion of the ' tU
three islands upon which the fortification* J<3
at New 7"ork were ertfted, he would not bc
agree tb appropriate twenty cents for that ™
pnrpofe i nor did he believe the State of fl]
New Tort would ever cede them. Mr. D. (,t
said, it was yesterday observed that an odi- ft;
ous diftin&ioa was made' with refpeft to th
New fork, because not provided for; and
now provision was made for her, gentlemen c(
still talked of odious diftin&ions. He did
not know what gentlemen would be fatisfied p
with. " Ik
Mr. D. said, living near New 2"ork, as tn
he did, hehad frequent opportunities of con- et.
verftng with the people of that city on this lL
fabjeft, and so far from a proposition of this e
kind being considered as an insult .to that
State, he believed it would be highly grati- N
fying to them. Nay, the Representatives at
of that State had assured him last fef&on, in v
converfalion, that if an offer like the pre
sent came frorfi Cor.grefs ft would be well
received. Every oc? of them said this, but
they did not wiih taenifelves to propqfe it, r £
because it might be fuppafed they pledged
the State to accept the offer, when they had a i
Uo authority to do so. He had not heard
an individnal fay it would not be well re- d
ceived, and he could fee no ground for the '*
present opposition. a
Mr. Swan Wick. thought the amendment a
good one. He believed the state of Pennsylva
nia would be glad to difehafge their debt tothe b
United State* in this way. f
Williams doubted r.ot the assertion of j
the gentleman from New-Jersey might be just (
aj to the citizens of New-Yorjc, but they wer« j.
r.ot so with refpefl to other parts of that Rate, t
and the representatives in the legislature cfme f
chiefly from the weft and north of New-York
er. Harpi* did not think it material.to .in- ' c
quire into the dispositions of the people of the (
citv or country of New-York, on this occasion- (
The quellion was whether it was expedient to .
make the present proposition—He thought it j
was ; for it it were acceded to on the part of (
New-York, great good would be done—if not, .
no harm could be the consequence. (
Mr. BReoKrs thought he knew the minds of (
his cor.fytuents better than the gentleman from (
New Jersey. He hatMieen in the legislature of (
New York for three years past, which he belie- (
Ved was the heft polfible situation for learning
the political opinions of the (lite. He bel*eved
a propefitten of this kind would not be well re
ewved he called it an invidious
from their-lifter dates ; It was- to fay to them,
If you do nit fay your debt (<whtch ivc fay is
jufl, but •iv/jtebyou Ji/pute) youfhtll not be pro
titled. -'
Mr. Dayton again charged the memory of
the gentleman from New Yoik with not being
faithful, and juftified his former assertion.
Whtu the blink came to be filled tip he f.id he
meant to pi opofe it to be filled with the sum of
1,200,c0c, the debt affutred for the state of
New York ; but, if he believed a proposition
of this kind"would beeonfivlered as an insult to
that state or people, he would be the lalt to sup
port it.
Mr. Havens believed with the gentleman
from New-Jtrfey, that the proposition would not
be considered as an insult, but lie wn doubtful
whether it would be accepted, because there was
a prevailing opinion in thit state that the fettle
went betwixt the Rates'and the United States
bad not been fair, as it related to them, and
that therefore the western representation would
oppose such an appropriation.
Mr. Elmendorf was against the araend
* ment. The principle upon ■« hicli the hotife had
proceeded was, general proteilion arising from a
ienfe of danger, ai.d that therefore those plac
es which were weakest and most expoied had a
primary claim upon their notice, without rel
peA to cefiion or any other secondary objtdl ;
but, instead of this, the question fecmed to be a
contest between different parts o! the Union and
the State of New York. He did not himfelf
think there was any occasion for extraordinary
measures ; but, as it had been other wife conclu
ded, he thought New York was entitled tft e
qual attention with others, and ouglit npt to be
pointed at m the way proposed. For, said he,
if the ref#lution paflesit w ill not insure the bu
siness being done, because the legislature of
New York might not agree to it. He there
fore thought that the mealurf was an excommu
nication of that Sute from the general protec
tion prppofed.
Mr. Sitgrfavss w'.lhed to offer a substitute
to the fedlion under; consideration ; which he
li»d reafoa to believe would prove generally ac
ceptable. It was to the following effea—" And
be it further enacled, that the Prcfident of the
United States be authorised tocaufe to be creel
ed at the Narrcws, such fortifications as he may
deem necessary for the proteflion of the port
and harbor of New York, provided that thc-ex-
Jttnce thereof do not exceed dt liars.
And be it further eua3ed, that the sum of
aoo,eoo dollars expended in tne present fortifi
cations in that pert, be pissed to the credit of
the balance found due from the state* of New-
YOrk to the United States, and that so much as
fliall remain of the said balance shall be appro
priated 'for- the pnrpofe of foiiilying the Nar
rows as aforefaid."
Mr. Havins did not approve of this amend
neti:. .Theafiumtd debt of New-York would
by no means fortify the Nairo\?s. After tak
ing off »00,000 dollars for the frefent forfifica
tions, there would only remain ene million,
and he believed, it would req lire three mill
ions.
Mr. Ha*?*R thought this preposition much
more hostile to the state of Ne* Yerk than th«
one It fiiperceded ; a< the principle of the other
was gcoeial, and this particular. He did not
believe that th* Nirrows would be Vrtified ei
ther by the State of New-York or the United
States, at present. He thought a mVlion of
dollars might be hid out to much better pur
pose in the purcliafe ps (hips of Var ; lor, if
they weir to go into t fyfttin of general fvtifi
eativn of the eoaft, one hundred millioiu of
dpllars would at least be fceceff-ry.
Mr. Allen supported the amendment.
Mr. £ayard uas oppofcd to the amend
ment, because in favor of the bill, for he believ
ed if the amendment was adopted, the kill
would be loft. The amendment wit pretend
ed to be directed t» one point, but was insidi
ously pointed to another. He thbrtght it impro
per, when one fo'jje<fl was tinder delate, to in-
tn#uce another totally different. lie did not I cef
come 'prepared to-day to decide on the I'i.bjeft I cor
of the dtbtor states. A queltisn of this unpor- ;j3
tauce ought net to be interwoven with any otli- ,
er. He adverted to what had taken place lafl
felhoti on the fohject of these debts, and said 01,1
if the fenat« had declined an agreement to a pro- pr<
pafition so mild as that was, it could not he eX- wi'
pefted to concur in this, and, of eourle, the th:
bill would be loft. F lO
Mr. Nicholas said, if this amendment p.iff
ed, the PrtCdent would authorised iinmedi
■ ttcly to csmmence fortifications at the Narrows. m<
; He if they gave this authority, they
! Oifluld do"it underft.Yhdingly. If the prnpofi- th
' tloti frid any thing, it said, "Go on and make 6 ;
I ypnr tortificstions, and the sum cxpen ed shall
be put to your credit." But, he said, whatever
more was spent than the amount of tke debt,
the United States would have to pay. He
fliould have voted for the former proposition, P e
because he thought it would have served the
state of New York, but he could not vote for bi
this.
Mr. SitOrfaves acknowledged that if the nt
' confiruftion put upon his proportion was a jull
one, he fliould hinUelf abandon it ; but he did
not think the provision was obligttory upon the
Prefidtnt, provided the funds (hould fail. If
he (hould deem it necessary to ereift thefortifica- fti
tions in qutftion, he was authorised, not requir- th
ed, to do so. He believed there ua«. always t J,
such a connexion betwixt tht authorization and
expence, as that when the fund failed, the ex
pence ceased. He fappofed, therefore, that the
President would firft enquire whether theftate of ! n
New York was willing thus to pay their bal- it
ance, and if not, he would not proceed with the tc
works. . . d'
The gentleman from Delaware had said i: u
was his (Mr. S's) intention to defeat the j
bill. He had voted in favor of fortifications; .
he had voted in favor of the higheftlum propo
sed to be appropriated sot that pnrpofe. _ a
[Mr- Bayard said he had only said that the t<
amendment would produce that etfetf.] ri
Mr S. replied, ha had not only said it was his
, design, but that it was an insidious design. He v
wilhed the coast to be effe<!lually fortified, did he
not kntw that our funds would not at present j
admit ol it ? The proposition had'two objeifls 11
in view, and he thought it would be a dcfirable e
thir.g to'accomplilh them. Indeed he did not, t
before to day, hear any obje<slion to this mea- ii
furc. Mr. S. referred to what colonel Stevens f
had said ' n favor of this mealure in the courle
1 of lalt feflion, and concluded with obrerving he
' had ntr particular fondnefs for the proposition,
' but had introduced it for the purpose of accom- c
' modation. .
, Mr. Van Aits opposed the amendment at j
• confylera'ble length-. He said it was either ne- j
: ceffary to put thepcrtsand harbors cf the Unit- I .
' ed States in a llateOf defence, or it was not ; (
1 if it was not, he did not w'ifti if to be done ; but
- if it was, he insisted iipolS'its being theduty of
! the geweral government to protest YciV, '
' as well as other ports. ' But' to. ptir/ije the.con- ;
j. dufl proposed, was to fay, ,We haye fortified j
other ports, you may fortify y.Qijrfelv'es tou ]
I owe us money, do thebufinefs,.and put [Mo ac-
count." If this were doße, he' -believed they j •
(hould have no more fortificat ions than-they had |
| at present; for it seemed to be determined, New J
York must pay the debt said to be due (and he '
did net think they would be:incliucd to do it) !
II pr have no fecuritv.
!' Mr. HAv£ns again fppke against the amend- j
' ment. 1
The queftipn on the firft part cf Mr. Sit- j
- greaves's prpppfition'was taken, and negatived, j
there being only lo vptes for it' -the last fell i
® of COUl'fc. I
'• Mr. HarfKß then moved again the propofi
® tion ps Vr. Allenj as amended by Mr. Havens,
on the lirftpartof it, which was carried, there
11 being 56 votes in favor of it. The question was
0 then taken on the latter part of it, and was car
' ried, there being S3 votes for it.
The eemmittee rose, and the house were about
11 to take up the amendments, when
' Mr. Pa*ker wished to report a bill forcom
-1 pleting the frigates United States, Constitution,
is and Constellation.
e " Mr. Nicholas alfp repprted a bill directing
the apppintment ps agents in relation to the ith
!j article of the Britilh treatyi -
' Both these bills were-t ji«e read, and commit
ted to committees of tire whole ; the former
j for Monday, the latter fpr to mprrpw.
On motion ps Mr. Otis, the house went in
-1 to a committee of the whole on the bill for fuf
c" pending in part the operation of-an ail passed
? last femon for raising a certain sum ot money by
additional duties. The dpmmitte«;- rOfc without
' makingany other than a verbal amendment j
but a (hort t'ebate took place irrthe.houfe, and,
pn motion of Mr. Harper, the bill was rejetfed
48 to 4a.
r y The propriety of paffihjj*this bill (intended
u " to operate in of certain Massachusetts mer
-5' chants, was supported by Messrs. Otis, Brookes,
be Chainplin and S. Smith, on the ground of its
le ' unequal operation,, as it appears that the cargoes
of their vessels, of from being sev
eral months. longer 011 their voyage, will be
e " charged with the new duty, whilst those of all
lU * the other ports, fr»m making (horter voyages,
;c * would not be charged with it. It was opposed
by Messrs. Harper, Parker and Coit, on the
'' e ground that it would be wrong to set a law aside
Iromi complaint ps this kind, as it would o
lc" pen the dppr to petitipns without end, whenev
" er in future the least inequality pt a tax was ex-
perienced.
ay THURSDAY, JUNfIS.
irt The House proceeded to consider the a
:x* mendments agreed to in the committee of
"r the uh(ic, in the bill refpefting Fortifica
jfi. tions.
pf The firft amendment, which was to fill
w- the blank to be applied to fortifications ge
nerally with 75,000 dollars, was agreed to
ro ' 48 to 38.
ir " The. next amendment was the one intro
duced by Mr. Dayton for preventing any
jld money being applied to fortifications, the
ik- jurisdiction of which had not been ceded to
ra- the United States.
> n > Mr. Brookes recapitulated his objec
tions to this proposition.
h Mr. Gallatin said he had voted for this
,; 1# amendfrient, because he conceived it to be
h tr founded 011 just principles; and as he (hould
-ipt now vote against it, it was necessary to give
ei- his reasons for doing so. He believed the
principle just, and proper to be used when
ever the United States (hould go into a ge
-11 neral plan of fortifications ; but, as this was
'ilj. only meant for a temporary provision against
of danger, he believed it could not be abided
by; because the danger might be greatest,
and the afliftance wanted most, at a pjace
which was not ceded. Be fides, he believed
Pj"l there was not a single port in the United
States had ceded exclusive jurifdiftion of
of their territory, according to the conftitu
-11- tion, and therefore this provision would go
in- to preclude the whole from relief; as every
ceflion which Jiad been made; p nvidcd Far a -
concurrent jurilili&ion of tlie it&c. So far ref<
as it related to PenflfyWwra,'ft«-Would not in <
"be entitled to any support, Iwcaiife (he not up<
only reserved a concurrent jurifdiffcion, but t-.ie
provided that if the cefiion was not accepted doi
within one year, it would be void, and more wo
than one year had no elapsed, and the cef- an<
lion was not accepted. ' S el
The que ft ion wa* put, end tile amend
ment negatived, there being only 30 for it- th;
The next amendment was that limTting th«
the interest of the money to be borrowed at Sii
6 per cent.
Mr. W. Smith hoped they (hould not
agree to this, but that they (hould agree to an
expunge what related to a loan. Other ex- th
penfes would be incurred, and he thought it Y<
would be better to include the whole in one foi
bill. ' ' - cri
Mr. Gallatik believed there would be' th
no ocCasion for a fpecific bill for a loan, a3
he believed the President had already fuffici-.
ent power to borrow money, if it could be 1°
got (alluding to the 5 millions 6 per cent all
stock agreed to last feflion). He thought
the present revenue would be fufficient, and tie
that it was only neceflary to give a pawer of
borrowing on anticipation. **
Mr. SwaNwick was in favor of continu- tJ
ing the amendment, because the striking of
it out, wonld appear as if they meant not di
to limit the interest; to 6 percent. He con- 21
demned the praftice of borrowing oney 31
upon all occasions. Whilst they were me
ditating schemes of. defence, he thought a
they ought also to fix upon some mode of railing
additional funds. He apprehended no good tl
to the United State 3 from this fyftcm of bor- "J
rowing. > c
Mr. Harper denied that the present re- P
venue could be relied upon to meet the ex
; penfes contemplated by this bill, especially *
. if they took into consideration an authorised
\ expence of 100,000 dollars, respecting the a
, trade with the Indians. He therefore tho't
- it neceflary to provide for them by a loan ; n
5 for taxes could not be laid and collected in
; time- to answer the exigency. In order to ■«
: reimburse the loan, it would be neceflary of ?
I course to provide taxes.
Mn Swanwick was sorry to hear the F
t gentleman last up advocating permanent • 1
- loans—[Mr. Harper said he did not mean 1 r
" > permanent loans, but such as might be re- j c
' deemable in a few years.] Mi*. S. said, e
f this would nevertheless be an increase of *
} stock, and of course of debt. An irredeem- *
- able debt would indeed be*a very extraordi- 1
d nary thing for this country. He understood I
u his colleague to mean that whatever sum was I
" borrowed, (hould be in anticipation of the
revenue to be raised, which would answer 1
r I t"he idea of the gentleman from South-Cara- c
e lina himfelf. By the method proposed of J
) ; felling stock to pay borrowed money, whilst
! it appeared we were only paying 6 per cent.
'* | we were in faft paying 9or 10, because the ,
j stock was fold greatly below par. He hoped
j" I therefore they (hould provide by taxes for all 1
[' ] the money they expended.
Mr. W. Smith accused the gentleman
i- last up with wandering from the fubjeft.—
s > j The question was whether it was necefTary
5 " to fay any thing about a loan in this bill. .
re Tlfere were two kinds of loan, one in anti
cipation of existing revenue, another where
there was no revenue to meet the expense.
ut The present bill contemplated the former.
It was neceflary to give tW President pow- j
er to borrow, because if there was no surplus
"» of revenue, the expense could not be met.
"He did not objeft to the amendment because
it limitted the interest of money, but'becaufe
if the interest was agreed to, the appropria
it- tion clause could not afterwards bi struck
er out. Before they fofe, he trusted prcvifion
would be made for the payment of whatever
"f might be borrowed, in four or five years.
He had no expeftation of money being bor
jy rowed in any other way than in anticipation
ut of the revenue.
t ; Mr. N. Smith objefted to the interest
d, of the money to be borrowed being limitted
€t ' to 6 per cent, as he believed it crould not be
borrowed at that rate, and it would be a
*. r . mere farce to limit intereft at a price be
es, low that at which it could be got. If money
its was absolutely neceflary, it must be got up
>es on the best terms upon which it could be
:v " had. The President might certainly be
b . c . trusted in tf-bufinefs of this fort, since no
a one could believe he would pay more in
rej tereft than there was a necessity for paying.
:hc Mr. GallatiS was not for confiding
ide wholly to the- President as to the Interest to
°* be paid for money. It was usual, he said,
:v " to limit the interest of all money to be bor
rowed. Mr. G. reminded the gentleman
from S. Carolina, of a saving in the last mi
litary appropriation of 150,000 dollars less
a- than the sum estimated, and contrary to tiat
of gentleman's wifiies, which would corifidera
ca- bly iucreafe the surplus of revenue.
Mr. N. Smith mentioned the loan of a"
fill million of dollars for the Algerine buiinefs,
tc- which was authorised to be borrowed, with
to out limitation of interest.
Mr. Co it was in favor of dispensing with
ro- the borrowing clause.
iny Mr. Hartley spoke in favor of thelimi
:he tation. He beh'eved money might be got
to at 6 per cent. He (hould be unwilling to
pay more, as it would increase the interest of
ec- money generally.
Mr. Brookes said the question was not
his whether more than fix per cent ftiolJld be
be paid for the interest of money, but whether
uld the borrowing clause (hould be inserted at
ive all.
the Mr. Otis was of the fame opinion. He
en- thought it would be best to have a diftinft
ge- bilLfor all the money wanted,
vas The question upon agreeing to the amend-'
!nft ment limiting" the interest of money, was
led negatived, there being 44 for it, and 50
eft, against it.
ace The next amendment was the clauie ap
fed propriating 40,000 dollars for the fortifica
ted tions of S. Carolina and Georgia,
of Mr. Gallatin hoped this would be dif
tu- agreed to, since the amendment limiting the
go general expenditure to such places as had
:ry ceded their jurifdidbon, had been negatived.
Mr. W. Smith moved that tlie hou(e \ '
refoiW itfilf into a committee of the' whole, 1 , . r
in order to take the sense of the committee Re £
upon striking out the 7;, 000 dollars for <
the purpose of adding this sum 01 40,000 faq,
-dollars to it, since fie fuppoled thia clause hie,
would be negatived, because S. Carolina*
and Georgia would now be included in the
general appropriation.
Several members having exprefled a wi(h IVi .
that this motion might be withdrawn until Qlt
the other amendments were gone thro' Mr. mai
Smith withdrew it.
The provision was then negatived. '' *
The amendment proposed by Mr. Allen J*
and amended by Mr. Havens, empowering ' .
the president to authorize the State of New par
York to ef-pend a certain sum upon their f ivc
fortificatious, which (hould be put to the Su
credit of the balance ,due from that State to '
the Un\.'d State?, then occurred. ™ -
M*. Srookes opposed the
Mr. Cochran prefpofed to add the fol
lowing words, in orr»jr to cover the expence 0 f
already incurred iu. the fortifications at New ha<
York, viz. " or which may have been expen
ded by any State for the purpose aforcfaid. "
Mr. Galtatin had no objection to the ™
two millions which New York owed the .j-j
United States being expended upon their ln
fortifications; but this amendment went to
discharge the State of New York from the fee
200,000 dollars already expended, wether lc.
any more was expended, or not.
This amendment was negatived, without
a divilion.
Mr. Harper proposed to add, after gr
the State of New York, "under the dtreSion
of the President of the United States," as afe- gj
curity for the money being properly em- >n
, ployed. _ _ _ '■
After alittleconverfation, this motion was
■ was carried without a division.
[ The question was then on tl)e amendment
■ as amended,
Mr. Macon was for rejefting the amen-
. ment. ' . . C
J Mr. M'Dowel was of the fame opinion.
> He objected to the amendment on two rf
f grounds, he thought it wrong to call upon u
the Debtor State in this indirect way for the f
> payment of their balances, and he thought
[ it also Wrong to throw away so much mo-
, i ney on fortifications, which he said could be r
.|of no use, for though they might prevent an £
' enemy from landing at the particular point
f where they were fixed, they could not pre- t j
vent them from landing at some neighbour- n
ing spot, and being landed they would take .
j pofleflion of the fort, and turn the guns a-
s gainst ourselves. a
e Mr. Brookes opposed the pafling of
r the aniendment', and thpught.the only way j.
„ of fettling the business of the debts, would v
f be Ey a conference with the state of New
\ York. c
Mr; FimDley insisted upon it th.it the balan- ,
" ces were fetrled, . and cquU not now be quef
j tiontd: - ,
" Mr. Baldwin gave his vote, in the commit- J
11 tee of the whoie, in favor "of "this, because he {
h»d been informed it would be acceptable to the J
n state of New-York.' If he. thought fitch 4 pro- [
_ position would be difagrecable to them, he
would not have supported it. He believed,
7 when passion l'ubfirfed", this settlement between ]
f' the States and the United States, would be ac- 1
i- k'nowledged to be a perfe£tly*.fair tranfaijlion 1
re With refpefl to the latter part of the imcid- 1
e. ment, requiring the jurildiition to be ceded, he
r _ Ihould be oppoled to it. lie did not wiih to in-
S fift upon an £xclufivi right. He was willing
" (the states should go on with thyr governments
is in their own way,'' without 'interference, in y 1
farther thin was neceflary to keep peace.amoi)jjft i
fe them and with foreign nations. ' i
fe • Mr. Vaknum said it would take upward; of"
a- twenty 'millions of dollars to extend this plan of .
•Jj. fortifications throughout the Cniied States, and •
there was no doubt when it was done in one
place, others wouid spply for the-bke attention.
er He was therefore opposed to, it.
-s - Mr. "Bayard did not why,they fliou'd
>r- tfifcrimifiate"betwixt, one place and another ;
an they ltruck out the clause refpefUrg South Ca
rolina and Georgia on this ground, and he trus
ted tjiey fiiould disagree to this. He objefled to
" , it also, becatife it teemed to admit the Hate ba-
lances', as jufily due. Mr. B. then went at con
"e fiderable length into the manner of the fettle
a ment of the commissioners, denied that the
>e- debts were justly due, and lioped there would
ey be a re-f»tticment. Gentlemen favd they voied
p. for this to oblige the debtor Hates. It was an
y odd way of obliging them, by voting for a mea
, e sure which would dtftroy the existence of fame
of the states.
no Mr. Harter observed that the gentleman's
in- arguments would have been exaitly in point,
ig. had the fubjeft of the balances been under con
njr fideration.
Mr. Otis said he yesterday voted for the a
., mendinem ; he was led fo from the idea
1G ' that he Was conferring a favor on the state of
>r " New York? but having since with
an the reprefentatives.from that state, he had been
ni- aftonilhed to find, they .were generally against it.
ess He (hould therefore decline doing them a favor
lat in fpiteof themselves. He was abouyo follow
[_ a Mr. Bayard in his observations ; but the Spea
ker said he had impropeily fuffered that gentle
man to proceed, and couid not admit a farther
' a deviation from o-der.
Mr. S. Smith spoke in favor of the amend
th- ment, and hoped the gentiemau last up would
not throw away his vote 5 for though some
; t h states might not choose to accept, of the offer oth
ers would.
Mr. M'Dowell again spoke against themo
ni" tion. ,
'Ot the gentleman from
to Maltachufelts n»t to take the ground of oppo
;of Ction he had taken, since the amendment ref
pe(fting jurifdiition had been negaiived, he was
lot in favor of this cltufe. He d'd no: think an a
» greement to this propofitiou was a recognition
e of the debt, nor did he think any state's agree
r ing to it, would commit others. He _wifhed
at thufe states who thought themselves unjustly
thaigtdwiih these balances might have this op-
He poitunliy of getting cltar of thein.
n Mr. Van Al*n opposed this amendment,
and concluded with faying, it was justice in the
, United States to fortify the port of New York,
n ' and it was equally justice in that state to pay
vas her debt. He wished her to be called upon, but
5° not in this way ; it was treating her 111 a man
ner which (he did not deserve.
ap- The sense of the house was then taken upon
ca- the firft part of the proportion by yeas and nays
as follow :
YEAS
Mcflis. Allen, Baldwin, Balrd, BradburJ',
t '"* Brent, Cabell, Champlin, CUpton, Cochran,
lad Coil, Dana, Davenport, Ege, Elmeadorf, E
ed. vans, Tiadley, Oalljtm, Oi'.e*, Goodrich, Giif-
w> Id, Ha.p-r, Harrifo", Hartley, tijveni,
Holmu. Httfmeii foiws, Rfteraf Lycrjiu. Mil*
ledge,morgan, Ni.:hokt,Parker, Porter,
RteJ.Scftureman, Sliep'iird,Sinitiefcfon, (.Smith, •
N Smith,S.Smith, Sprigg, SwanWiek, Thomp
foa, A. Trigg, J. Trigg,-Van Cortland*, Vena
ble, Wadiwurth - jo.
NAYS.
MetTrs. Baer, Biyard, Blount, Brooks, Bry
an, Uulluck, CUirborne, Clay, Craik, Oivir,
Oawl'on, Deams, Dent, A. Foflpr, D. Fofttr,
Fouler, J. Free:riin, N, Freemm, Gultipie,
Oleim, Gordon, Gregg, Grove, Hanna; Hind
man, Locke, Lyen, Machir, Macon, Matthews,
M'Clerachan, M'Dougall.Otis, Kutledge.Sew
all, Skinner, W. Smith, (C.) • ?raith,_ (P. )
Standf«rd, |»umpter, Thomas, VanAlen, Var- \
cum, R. -Williams—4*«
The quefliou was now taken upon tht latjer
part of the intendment, providing that exclu
sive jurifdi&ion be placed in the United
Stares.
Several |«cpofitio3» were nfferfd for the a
mendmcnt of this clause. It was prope'ej by
Mr. Kitteri, that where Va«d was cuecl Tyy a
ftateto' the United States, or purehafedlw the
United States of an individual,'by t(i- etuietit
of theftate, a concurrent juriraiftion & ntl 1 i>« .
had. _ '"' *
This motion wasnee'tived 43. to '.°- s -
Mr. ELM tNDOK F tfien propose!
ment, omitting the words-"-by ednfent fef the
state," which was carried, thye being 48 for it.
The amendrfient, as amended, was then pat
and carried, there being 5? for it •' • \
Mr. W. Smith then moved to strike out the
second feflion of the bill, in order to leave the
loan to a future law.
Mr. Gallatin \j ilhedtlie gejuleman to con
fine hirufelf to the loan, and not: to the appro
priation. *
Mr. Smith consented, and the motion was a
greed to
Mr. W. Smith then moved that the house a
gain resolve itfelf into a committee of the whole,
iri order to add the 40,000 dollars proposed to
be appropriated for South Carolina and Geor
gia, to the 75,000 for the general appropriation.
He shewed at length the j»if) ice of this meafi^e.
Mr. Rutledge seconded the motion,and
said he trailed the vote of the House would
, r be confident with that of the committee.—
The gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr.
Gallatin)* had moved, in the committee of
the whole House, for a reduction or the fun
' recommended by the feleft c.ommittee, le
\ cajife Carolina and Georgia were to be ex
cluded from a participation of the general
' appropriation, they not haying ceded to the.
United State? the jurifdittion of the territo
" ry where fortifications had been and were to
' be erected, and because special provision was
1 to be made for fortifying those states. But
" the House having determined not to discrimi
nate between the states which had ceded-the
" jurifdi&ion of their territory and those which
had not,, and the clause in the bill which
, appropriated 40,000 dollars for fortifying
J Carolina and. Georgia being expunged, he
l hoped the gentleman from Pennsylvania
would not be so uncandid as to oppose the
' ,int'Oduftion of the sum which had been re
commended by the committee. The reafoif
[- he had afligned for reducing it being that a
special provifioil would be made for fortifj
. Ing '.he southern .states, and the clause- which ,
e provided for {heir; defence being ekilroyed,
e Mr. R. hoped the gentleman would not lie
so inconsistent as to limit the appropriation
j e to 75,000 dollars, but would now vote -&r
n ' 115,000, and thus, by adding the sum vot<d
in the committee for fortifying the southern
1 states to the general appropriation, accord
1- with the -vote of the committee of the while
* House. ". .
l " Mr. R. exprefled his surprise, that after .
.j' the lengthy debate which took, place in the
y committee, in which he had detailed the de
ft fenpelefs state of Carolina and G«jrgia,. ttjro
gentlemen Ihould now'alk if 75,1500 dollars
3 f" wquld not be a fufficient sum for all the pur-
pofes of defence and fortifications. He. re
quested they would call to memory, the ob
servations which had beefi made yesterday
by a gentleman from Maryland (general'."
!d Smith) whose miliary * talents were ..well
; known. by .every member in the House, arid
a " to whose military services this country was
greatly indebted. He had ftated.xhafc
n . ing our harbours. What the gentleman
e . from North-Carolina had observed
hc ing fortifications was true as it related" tfo io
ld ternal defence —but for the. defence of the
coast he knows they \yere of iijfinitc-fervice.
He (general M'Dow'ell) had been too ac
ng lively.engaged in cur revolutionary war not
to know that fortifications had answered
i's many valuable purposes. He knows that
it, the southern states were preserved for several
years by a fortrefs in Carolina—he knows
that fir Peter Parker with a large fleet, and
fir*H, Clinton with a formidable army, were,
Q f in 1776, baffled at fort Moultrie, in their
t h attempt to pass it, and compelled, after hav
en ing attacked it most vigoroufiy for twelve
it. hours, to abandon their project of con*
or quering the southern states. True it is that
>w fort Moultrie was afterwards taken, and the
whole state overrun by the enemy—but the
lrr conquest was made by an irrefiftable force,
after a very long and gallant defence,
id- Mr. R. thought 30 or 40,000 dollars, ex
'ld pended judiciously, would put Charleston in
a complete state of defence. He admitted
that veflels might pass a fort without re
-10. ceiving rr.ucfi injury—but contended, that
whenever 'twas ppfiible to have a crofs-frc
mi on them, few commanders would be so
3o- venturous as to carry Ihips into fnch a peril
,oU3 situation. He described the harbour of
l ' a6 Charleston as being very capable of complete
defence by fortifications. He said the fe
fe. cretary at war contemplated fortifying aa
lc j island opposite to fort Johnson, and when
Illy that shall be done, veflek attempting to pass
op- it will encounter a ctpfs fire. Mr. R. dwelt
much on the nccefliiy of fortifying the coast
of the southern states—described it as being
very extensive, and having near it much
ia y wealth, and that of a very perishable nature.
hut In all events, he said, even in th-.t of our
an- being certain a general peace will immediate
ly take place, fortifications would be neccf
?°n fary in'the south. Let whatever ordfr of
a y*- things obtain ia Europe—the revolution had
, been so complete in the Weft-Indies—everv
|r j >) thing which was venerable and refpe&able
r3r> had been so entirely subverted—anarchy ar.d
E- | disorder were so prevalent and extensive there
iiif- f«r years to Cflme wc mull erpeft tahave our commerces in that fn vsiu-J by '
buccaniers and our coa-t infefted by pirates. 11
He concluded with thmki.ig th; houfj |j
for the attention with which it hit honored f t
his obfervatioiis—He deemed it quite unne
cessary to add to them *3 it would be doipg rt
great injustice to the consistency and can-
dour which diltinguiihed ths»proceedings of
the House—to fupp >fe itAvonW on this day „
give a vote in dirett contradiftion to tljat o
of yefterdiy. He was p .rfuaded they would k
not, and that a large majority would rife in "
favor of appropriating 115,000.d011ar3.
Mr. Giles had no doubt of the fitua
ation of Charlcfton being as represented ; 1'
but thought the 75,000 dollars, and the n
20,000 in hand, would be equal to all that
would be wanted before Congress met again.
Mr. Gallatin was of the fame opinion.
He did not think that one half of the 115,
000 flollars would be spent, as only 140,
000 had been expended from 1794 to 1797. f
He tho't no more ihould be appropriated
than was abfillutcly necessary: for if they
took into consideration the situation of Eu
rope at present, there was every reason to y
expe& a general peace would take place. d
He thought the probability so great as al- £
moil to do away all apprehenlion? of danger
to this country. But, because they were tl
met together, Gentlemen seemed disposed to »
dofomething. He was willing that some- d
thing fiiould be done. He was therefore in
favour of those measures which could do the t
lealt harm* He ihould vote for the bijl in a
its present shape; but he (Wild be against
raifmg the additional troops proposed, as
they would cost 400,000 dollars a year,
which would be guarding against an imagin
ary' danger, by introdudbon a real evil.
He fliould be again ft recommittingthisbillbe- 1
cause if they vent farther they (hould enter
upon that plan which had been produced
by a sense of danger which he did not think
row exilted. " That danger had lessened be
twixt the time of calling Congress and their c
meeting, but which had lessened J
unce. i
Mr. Allen thought it was insanity to 1
assert there was 110 danger to be apprehended
from our present situation as to foreign na- 1
tions. The diffatisfa&ion expressed by the j
Spa nidi Government, he called a scandalous '
njiferable pretext. He considered this na
tion as on the eve of war; spoke of the 1
"French furt onnding us on all fides, nay, 1
he said something about declaring war if the
polls which they held were not given up.
He hoped they ihould take vigorous mea
sures of defence, and r.ot feperate until they
laid a direct tax. Whatever the benevolent
mind of the gentleman last up might think
of me Frervch nation, he could look upon
them as nothinglefs than foes. (The Speak
er reminded the gentlemen of the question.) ■
He concluded with great warmth in charges
of ambition against the French nation.
Mr." Milledge and Mr. Shepard each
spoke in favour of going ifttp a committee
of the "whole.
The queftiou for re-committing was carri
ed 46 to 43. The house accordingly went
into a Committee of the whole, and agreed
to mak'e thefum 115,000, infteadof7s,ooo,
there being 47 votes for it, and 42 against it.
The question was then taken on the paf
finff of the bill by yeas and nays as follow :
- -YEAS.
Messrs. Allen, Baer, Baldwin, Bayard,
Bradbury, Brookes, Burgess, Champlin,
Coqhran, CrSik, Dana, Davenport, Den
nis, Dent, Ege, Evans, A. Foster, J.
Freeman, Glenn. Goodrich, Gordon, Har
per, Hartley, Hindman, Holmes, Hof
jner, Imlty, Kittera, S. Lyman, Machir,
Matthews, Milledge, Morgan, Otis, Par-
Rutledge, Schureman, Sewall, Sh'ip
ard, Sitgreaves, N. Smith, S- Smith, W.
Smith, (Ch.) W. Smith, (P.) Thomas,
"Van Alen,, Wadlworth, J. Williams—4B.
N A Y S.
Messrs. Bai.d, . Blount, Brent, Bryan,
Bullock, Cabell, Claiborne, Clay, Clopton,
Coit, Davis, Dawfon, Elmendorf, Fowler,
N. Freeman, Gallatin, Giles, Gillefpie,.
Gregg, Grifwold, Harrifon, Havens, Jones,
Lyon, Macon, M'Clenaghan, M'Dowell,
New, Nicholas,. Potter, Read, Skinner,
Sprigg, Stanford, Sumpter, Swan wick, A.
Trigg, J. Trigg, Van Cpr.tlandt, Varnum,
R. Williams.'— 41.
The bill was ordered to be. engrossed for a
third reading "to-morrow—Adjourned.
PAPERS
Which accompanied the Pre/ident's Mejfage of
the 12th injl. on Spani/h affairs. »
*• [<Of/T/.VC£D.]
[No. XI-1
From llis Excellency Manuel Gayofo de Lemos,
to Andrew Ellicott, Esquire,
Kate hex,, March
My Dear Sir,
I have just now receivedyour communication of
•his day, by which lam fotry to find the construc
tion you put on the ftpring of the ammunitions
that came from the Walnut Hills in this fort; I
have no other place to put them in, for it weuld
ba imprudent to leave them arpofed in an ut.fVcurc
place at a time when the Indians might take ad
vantage of u«, if they found that in the present
circumitances we ivied without the ncceflary pre
cautions. At the time you fv me con.iuiting am
munitions to the fort, you will likewise fee as many
go ou: of it for the Arkenfas, to reinforce that
po/r, which will now b: expafea to the inccirfions
of the Ofage Indians, who in the laftfitafonpil aged
Hie white inhabitants of that country.
1 lam entirely unacquainted with any ill treat
ment the ei;isens of the United tates faoula have
received at the "Wilifat Hill* ; if you mean the ex
.•l utinuof the orders of the General in Chief <;f
this province to den'olilh that post, it was in con
(eanence of our treaty with the "Indians that they
n«ht have i:<> juit r.-afon to complain of our con
duct, Iqtfiner 1 have been i formed of th:ir un
fetl'ed dif?ofition, 1 have fen; counter orders to
lufrend evety thing that might injure the actual
hate of thnfe fortifications, and in such circuui
ilaness r.ialt Botßicve any thing elle ui:ul the «rri
.. v.il of tlue American noope that are daiiy expected.
ut avoidab'e detention that has been experi
enced in tv;'ir.nir£ the line, yon know realises,
■*ut they Aisllfoon be removed, as Licet .-rant Col.
Cvuiliemard is lar on his way u.p, and at his a' r val
tl'i- m-pdrtaut IjlT: shall bei^ur..
idoaiTure you that there is toßtninjtKa»efli pte
v»rt the religirits of thetrc.'ty thctigh
I might ohCeTve, ti nt the caciaift of lomc persons
flu( jrri- to ass.-'i ar.imrre- iare fir the
vt>?cs »> i; -'- u;) fiij attjLt'.n.
I rcq'U'fi thpt you wi'l he so kind as to take f'.ttfi
mcolurcs as to iurprefs untimely cxpreflions that [,
can only t.ml t» diflurb the tranquility of the pub
lic, of uhich lam solely aiif»v<ra'.)U for the pre- a
sent * L
An I was finifhinf this., Mr. Gillefpie brought to t
me your note inquj*iug if the works at the Bluffs j
had been or removed to the o'her fide ef ~
the river. j
Mil at I hava Already said concerning our tr:a - y
with ihe Indians 1 fupp;fe has guided the general p
of this province to tak: that Hep. I realty do not p
know whether they are deflroyed ornot. I give you J,
my word that I did not know what wis to be done
there and it is only by Earon Baflrop that I l 'ain .
that that poll would soon be evacuated; but a» *
this Ua thing that only regards the General of the a
Province, I cannot account for it, nor can I fay. t
more on the fobjeit, as all the orders proceed from
him, the post being entirely out o my jurifdielion
My dear Sir, your most humble obedient ftrv
ant and friend, manucl gavojii db lemos.
The "Honorable Andrew Ellicott.
[No. 12 ]
Front Andrew Ellicott, Ffq. to his excellency Ma
nuel Gayofo de l.emos ■
„ Natchez, March 14, 179 7.
My Beat Sir,
IT is with pleasure I acknowledge there eipt of
yuur Excellency's very fatisfaclory letter of yefter- t
day. You may reft assured that I have, and (hall ~
continue to difconntenanee every measure, ar.dtbe
propagation of any opinion which may have at %- ®
dency to diflurb the good order and harmony of 1
this fottlement I (hall dole this letter with request- 1;
ing that the Commandant ®f the Walnut Hills be a
diredted to treat the citizens-os tha United States c
with politeness when thty flop at that post, it a
contrary conduit may be attended with oifa;jreea
ble confeqiiences on a river which both nations have c
ail eqnal right to navigate. 1
I am, witfi fentimerts of real eftetm, t
Your sincere ;nd affcflionate friend, r
A NDaEW ELLIeOTT
His Excell.ncy Manuel Gayofo de Lemos.
(Copy.) 1
[No: 13,] C
cram Hij Excellency ATatiuel GayeJo it Levttts, to An-
drew Ellicttt, H/y- ,
(Copy.)
Natchez, March 25.
My Dear Sir, 1
BY every report you are acquainted, with the ' j
confirmation of every th-ng 1 have told you con- j
ctrning our business ; you know that Lieutenant
Col. Guillemard will be here very soon, and that
immediately wi? (Vall projeed to the ropning ot the 1
line. But as nothing but friendly *rangements 1
arc to guide our conduit, it is ueceffary to avoid e- j
very (badow of compulsion. Sy tlie contents of j .
my letter to Captain Pop«, you will fee my rea
sons ; therefore, I request that you wi l ! join a cou
ple of lines to avoid any more writing.
lam surrounded by many people who have bufi- 1
ness, this being court day, though I have tried to ■
disembarrass myfelf, but cannot wait upon you- ,
1 am, with the highest eftcem andrefpeil, j
My dear Sr,
Vour most humble servant and friend,
MANUEL CAVOSO Dt LIMOS. 1
The Honorable Andrew Ellicott, Esquire. 1
From Andreiu Ellicott, EJq to Lieut, Pope. .
Natchez, March 25, 1797.
DEAR SIR,
THIS will be handed you by Major '
Minor, a friend of mine, an officer in the ;
service of his Catholic Majesty ; your polite
attention to him will be considered as a par- t
ticular favor conferred upon me. By order
of Governor Gayofo, his letter to - you of
this day has been shown to me, his request.
for you, and the troops under your' com
mand, to remain for an indefinite time above
this place, appears to me a very extraordi
nary one; fufficient time has already been
given by the United States for the evacua
ation of all the posts on the East fide of the
Mifiifippi, above the 31ft degre; cf north
latitude ; and from the troops of Uis Catho
lic Majeft carrying up and remounting the
cannon at this p|aee, I cannot pretend to
fay that an evacuation is really intended in
any reafonabl* time. From this.. circum
ft2r.ee I should conclude that the sooner you
yon are here the better. However, as I
have no. controul over the destination qf the
troops of the. United States except my own
escort, I (hall take for granted that yonr ■
inftru&ions are fufficiently, pointed to dire£t
your conduft. Please to accept of niy sin
cere wilkes for the fafe and speedy arrival'
of yourfelf and troops at thi3 .place ; aad
am, Dear Sir,
Yoar.friend and humble-Servant;,.
ANDREW ELLICOTT.'
Lieutenant-Pope. " -■■■■■
(N ? . 15.)
Don Manuel Gayofo de Lemos-, Brigadier in
the Royal armies, Governor Military and
Civil of Natchez and its dependencies, <3c.
&c. tffc. .
WHEREAS the political situation of
this Country, offers a large field to busy and
malignant minds to disturb the tranquility of
" its ihhabitants, it is therefore my duty, and
the continuation of that vigilance which I
have conftantlv exerted not only to promote
the happiness of every individual of this go-
likewife to support their in
terest and secure, their tranquility, that L
step forth to warn the public against being
led by their innocent credulity against any
measure that may be produftive of'ill con
sequences, and fruftaate all the advantages
they have a right to expe£t : And by the
present I assure to them if they continue as
they have always done, with iftrift attach
ment to the Welfare of his Catholic Majes
ty's Government, from which will depend
the following favorable events. —viz.—His
ty has offered to support the rights of the in
habitants to the real property, and until that
is ascertained, I am bound to keep poffeflion
of this country, as likewise until we are
sure the Indians will be pacific.
Contrary to the general expe&ation the
fame indulgence that until now presetted
the inhabitants in distress will be continued
' during his Majefty'sfovereignty ijithis coun
try ; and this being the season in which the
planters are employedin preparing for an en
-1 suing crop, none shall be disturbed from
- that important pbje& on account of their de
- pending debts. The mifconftruftion of what
L is the enjoyment of the liberty of conscience
is hereby positively explained to be, that
l' no individual of this Government shall be
il molested on account of religious principles,
and that they ftrjl not be hindered in their
private meetings, but no other public v 9 -
thip will be allowed but that generally etta
„ blifhed in all his majesty's dominions, which
n. is tb? Catholic religion.
These important objects, that until now t
have not been published, though refolved> I <
acquaint the public with, apprchenfive of !
the dangCENius insinuations of several persons t c
that'have rlade it their business to dazzle the , v
public with falfe notions to serve their own ■ v
pufpofe in the speculation of lands that are f
lawfully held by all the inhabitants of this t
government, therefore I firmly rely that no r
person will deviate from the principles of ad- r
hffion to our Government untilj the nego
ciations that arc now on foot between his t
Majesty and the United States of America, ]
are concluded, and thereby the real proper- 1
ty of the inhabitants secured. r
Given under my Hand and the Seal s
of my Arms, and countersigned by t
the Secretary of this Government, (
by H. M at the Government, '<
House, Nat.chez.. 1
MANUEL GAYOSO DE LEMOS. j
•JH. VIDAL. (
29th March, 1797. '
(No. 16.)
WHEREAS the alarming cjrcumftances j
that prevailed for a while in this Govern
ment, obliged me to circulate proclamati
ons, wherein I warned the people of their
immediate danger. Now, that these trou
bles have subsided, I cannot but publish my t
approbation, and applaud that upright sense s
of duty that the inhabitants have (hewn to t
the laws of our gracious Sovereign, by fe- 1
condlDg his representative, the right they {
have fojuftly acquired of being considered a
the most loyal fubje&s of his Majesty. In J
my last publication I mentioned that until 1
the real property Ihould be secured to the f
inhabitants, this country should be consider- 1
ed in the same-situation as before, as like- (
wife while the pacific disposition of the In- t
dians was not ascertained. I find it my du- <
ty to explain that a negociation is now car
rying on to secure the right of the said real 1
property. As that right cannot be fecu- ]
red but by an additional article to the late <
treaty,and untilthat article is officially com- <
municated to me, I am bound to keep pol-' 1
fefiion of the country, and continue the fame t
indulgence and the fam# anxious protection 1
as until now. The negociations with the (
| Indians will produce the fame effedls, as it <
is impossible for his Majesty to leave unpro- 1
te&ed so many of his faithful fubjefts, and 1
expose other settlements to the revengeful ]
difpofitiou of discontented Indians ; these 1
important objefts are o£ the greatest moment i
to every person in this government; their in- -1
tereft and allegiance to his Majesty binds t
them to keep steady in their principles of '•
loyalty, until by the definitive arrangements i
of both nations a change takes place. Be- <
ing informed that some persons are ajprehen- i
fi\te that violent measures will be taken a- ]
gainst those that seemed pleased >vith the 1
profpefts of becoming citizens of the United 1
. States, I declare that such a notion is un
founded, as likewise the suspicion, that in- 1
daviduals would be prevented from moving i
to any part they please, either within his (
Majesty's dominions or elsewhere, as it is 1
-notorious that no fuph obstacle was ever'of- J
fered to any body, it beiag contrary to one
of the greatest prerogatives that are enjoyed 1
\ff his Majesty's fubje&s.
DON MANUEL GAYOSO DE LEMOS. 1
March 29th, 1797, 1
(No. 17.)
From Andrew ElUcott, Esq. to his Excellency ]
Manuel Gayofo de Lemos.
Natchez j March 31ft, .'97.
MY DEAR SIR, . 1
I WAS last evening addrefTed by a num
ber of refpeftable inhabitants of the Diftrift j ;
of Natchez. . They are very much alarmed
for their situation, in consequence of having ;
exprefied their pieafure, fmce my arrival at
this place, in speedily becoming.citizens of
the- United States'. Your proclamation of
the~zßth inft. they conceive renders that e
vent doubtful. They' have therefor? from
confederations.'of personal fafety, and to a
void -the insults \yhich many of them have
esperitneed ' from one or more officers of
a small grade in this (3iilri£t, have called u
pon me to use my influence with your Ex.-
qellency to. grant them, and all others who
incline to leave J this country, the privilege of
difpofingof their properties and passports to
enable them to reach the frontiers of such
dates as they may be inclined to remove to.
I have'now ft?ted the fubftartce of their ap
plication, and aflure your Excellency, from
the refpedlability of the applicants, it is a
fubjeft in which I feel myfelf intcrefted,
and to which I requed your at
tention.
Ever fincel arrived in this diftridt, I have
uniformly recommended to the inhabitants
a'quiet submission to the Government now in
force ; at the fame time they have been in
the most explicit manner assured, that the
period would not be far distant when theju
rifdiftion of the United States, would be
extended to them. But they are not Satis
fied ; they have their suspicions ; and it is
your Excellency alone that can quiet them.
Let the cannon and military (lores be again
taken out of the fort; withdraw your ob
jeftions tothe arrivalof the American troops,
; and their apprehensions will subside. Ido
■ not pretend to fay that their apprehensions
: are well founded ;it is poflible they are not.
1 but your objedtion to my escort's being fta
: tioned with me, your hauling back and re
mounting the cannon at' this place, your
: dispatching Major Minor to delay the arri
l val of the troops of the United Statesat this
1 post, added to your Excellency's proclama
tion, however well meant, have had a con
: trary effeft, by encreafing their fears.
I have enclosed two paragraphs of the ]
1 address which was handed to me last E
- .vening. I am icc. &c.
t ANDREW ELLICOTT.
e (No. 18.)
t (copy.)
e MANY whose ideasofallegiancehad been
1, preponderant from the treaty until the time
ir of your arrival at this place, thought them
- selves at full liberty to announce their senti
ments ir. any way that might not afffft the
h operations of peace and good order in soci
ety. But the result is a melancholy contrast
to the conftni£Hon. Sons have been
dy torn away from the hofcm ofagricultural
life, and conveyed to prison with every in
dignant epithet that malevolence could in
vent. Scouts are eroding the country In
various dire&ions, breathing threats of venn
geance sgainft those Y/lio had unguardedly
thrown aside the mask of duplicity ; and a '
number are waiting with solicitude the mo
ment of their fate.
There are many in this country to whose
exertions America is much indebted for her
political existence. We call upon you in J
the name of such ; we call upoff you in the ,
name of every friend to that emblem of peace V
and science which has been recently display- c
ed to us : to stand forth with a coif dfnee, 0
suitable to the dignky of your commiflion, £
and demand of the Governor, paflports with f
leave for all such as would dispose of their f
property and avail themselves of a change of i
situation b'f withdrawing to the United i •
States. | 5
[No. XIX.] jt
From his Excellency Manuel Gayofo de Le- h
mos, to Andrew Ellicott. Esq. ' '■
Natchez, March 31ft, 1797. j 3
MY DEAR SIR, £
I 1 iAVE just now received your favor 0
of this day, in which yoir informed of the j
application dT several respectable inhabi- 0
tants of this Government to you, request- '
ing your interpolation to facilitate to them a '
privilege that they never ceased enjoying, t
and in which confills the great liberty of a a
Spaniard. There is not one single in fiance a
in our government of having made oppofi
fition to a person's felling his property, and [
leaving the criuntry, whenever they called t
for a passport ; and as our fyflem is not al- a
tered, I (hall not refufe the sam? privilege to I
any person that may apply for it.
I am sorry to find, that those persons !
who have addrefled you, have imposed upon (
your credulity and goodness, in making nie ,
of remonstrances proper to make sensation ■ ]
on the feelings of a good "citizen of the 1 '
United States—but there is not a word of 1 ®
truth in what they have advanced. I hr.ve t
not taken notice of the farisfaftion that r
some persons have exprefied on the profpedt t
( of becoming citizens of the United States ; 1
nor has any body been apprehended for it— j
nor have I iflued any order for such a pur- ,
pose, but against Mr. Green, fen. who had (
made his escape, conscious of the criminal- <
ity of his conduct, which is notorious ; and '
iudeed in all the extent of this government, j
there is'but one single individual confined,
and that is for a criminal proceeding. There
is not a single patrol out in search of any
one, nor just in this moment do I find occa
sion for it; but if I should, I would em- ,
ploy every means in my power to suppress
disorder, and to keep the peace of the coun
try, as I have always done.
I doubt not of the afiurances you please
to give me of the good advice you have uni
formly given to the people—it being con- :
formable to the character of a gentleman,
whose objeft is another than that of inter
fering in the matters of government.
My Proclamation I found absolutely ne
cefiary to calm the minds of the people—
: stating to them the true situation of the po
litical arrangements between his Majesty
and the United States, which does not dis
solve the treaty, but requires an eflential ex
planation, not only with regard to the
points alluded to in my Proclamation,
but likewise as I am authorized to
declartf to you, that the General of this
Province finds himfelf under the necessity
to consult his Majesty concerning the man
ner in which the posts are to be evacuated ;
as it appears by General Wayne's commu
nication to him, that he expsfts that the
posts will be delivered with the buildings
standing as they are ; and by the treaty, We
conceive that the posts are to bedemolifhed
before we leave them ; arid as such interpre
tation of the true meaning of the treaty ei
ther one way or the other [it] might pro
duce unneceljary ministerial contcfts, my
General has given me positive orders to ful
pend the evacuation of the posts until the
matter (hall be amicably fettled between the
two Courts. In the mean while, if the
troops of the United States that are daily
expe&ed, arrive, they (hall be received at
Nogales in the most friendly and hospitable
manner, as is due to a nation with whom we
are at perfett peace, and with whom we wish
to keep the most perfeit harmony.
I flatter myfelf you will do me thejuftice
so acknowledge the propriety of my conduft
in obeying the superior orders of my Gene
ral, who is aftuated by the principles of the
ftri&eft honor in supporting the iatereft of
his Majesty intruded to him.
The uniform good harmony that we have
reciprocally promised to each other will sub
sist ; and it will not be only our duty but
our glory to bani(h every (hadow of misun
derstanding, which is wrongly interpreted
by the public, without any more foundation
than aflifted those that tried to persuade
you of wrongs that they never fuffered.
I am, with sentiments of the most sincere
esteem, and true friendfhip, &c.
Manuel Gayoso de Lemos.
[To be continued.]
Xl)e <Gsasette*
PHIL A D E L PHIA,
SATURDAY EVENING, June 17.
BUSH-HILL.
Last evening the Gardens at this delight
. ful retreat were opened. A brilliant Com
pany attended—The Entertainment gave
universal fatjsfacb'on. The Mtffic, Vocal
and Instrumental went off with great eclat
and applause. >4
The Gardens will be open for the second
e time this evening.
FRENCH ELECTION'S*
• The celebrated M. M/iumontei. is elc3ed for
c one of the Councils, amcrglt the new third.
M. Le (a-dcv<intj Corn; te (If Sigkk is said 10 be
'he r.ew DireScr.
POSTSCRIPT
To Admiral Nelson's Order, i punliJie<l Gi
aSctt# oh ThurfJay.
" P. S. Rear-Admiral Nelson rcqtfefts the A
merican OomAil will have the goodncfs to diieit hit
letter to the Daniel Consul, and mate i: public f»r
iht information of'all dther Cbnfuls,
Copy of "tLfc Letter a-idtefM to Rear-Ado.tral Nc!-
ion.
Cadi, lj:h April 1797.
R:V » • . . . - j
THE American Consul reltding in this h?s
(hewn u* the olßcial note winch you have adilreHd-i
to him, wherein foil mention that this is to he cor. -
ftdered as a blockaded port, And that no veflfel wJJ
he fullered to pass in or out, without your or the
chief commander's leave We cannot But eiprcfs
our surprize at» this uucxpe&ed intelligence, the
more 10 asfaid rncafure is contrary to the existing
treaties of amity and commerce between our rc
fpe&ive fovereigus and nations, and the king of
Great Britain and the British nation, appearing as
it does by your said official note that an absolute
powe? is inverted is the chief commander &ftd in
you. We deem it a duty highly incumbent upon
us befor<* we communicate the needful informa
tion to our rcfpedUve superior*, to rcqueft you will
be pleated to infoim us in answer, whether veffeh
belonging to Americans, Danes, Swedes, Venetians
and Genoese, £,me now ready to put to sea, and
others partly loaded, bound for neutral ports, and
furniihed with certificate# fpecif/ing the property
on board to be fonafJt neutral, will be fu fiend to
proceed on their voyages, without running the rifle
of being detained; and we beg leave to observe
that we conceive an explicit and categorical answer
on this important head, due to the permanent;
iriendfhip profefTed by our rations, and
the confiant dv fire rhey Tacw to continue in amity
and good underftandirg with his Britannic MaJcHy
and the Britilll nation. -
It cafe you should not jii'lge proper to grant laid
request, vye have to beg your precise information
thereon, that we may jo i-tiy dlfpacch an «»*prej[sto
the Court of l.ondoii, in ordif to solicit the just
accompliihment of this application.
COPY-
Ville dc Paris, off Cadiz, 19th 'April, *V7'
Gentlemen,
ALTHOUGH I do by.EO means admit the rca~
in your letter of I jth inft. addrefied to Rear
Amiral Nelson, that the blockade of an enemyV
port, is unusual, much !efs unprecedented ; having
ir. two instances carried a firaiiar measure into exe- >
cution during- the lafl year, in the Mediterranean,
via. Toulon and Leghorn—l have great f&tisfac
ti»n in relieving the minds of the merchants of
neutral powers resident at Cadiz, by giving you
the most unequivocal afTuranccs, that the (hips and
of neutral nations, loaded with bonafdc pro
perty of neutral merchants, carrying clear and au
thentic documents in proof thereof, will (-open
presenting them to the commanding officer of the
fquadren of his Britannic Majefty'slhips under my
command) be permitted to proceed from Cadiz to
their refpedlivo detonations, after such examination
as the said officer shall in his discretion judge nectf
fary to make.
(Signed) JERVIS.
Neutral Consuls. resident at Cadiz.
yr r* 11 mwi.rin rTriiur'WW 1 " 1 y "Pi
Fort of Philadelphia.
ARRIVED. DATS.
Schr. Maria, Hudgens, • Virginia 4
kiting Polly, Jon;», N : Carolina 4
Lovely Lass, Gibbon, Charleston 6
Industry, DefTyke, Richmond 8
Sloop Polly, Simonds, Norfolk 4
CLEARED.
Show Boston, Dougherty, C. N. Mole
Brig Vigilantia, Rieter, Leghorn
Fly, Brice, . Rotterdam
Tryphena, Griffiilg, Bourdeaux
Patty, Coffin, Boston
Schr. Helena Plumftead, Van Duym.LanceaVeiu
John, Wafs, Boston
Sencerity, Monteith, Jaqtiemel
Little Will, Eaglefon, Port ju L'rince
Jupiter, Burbank, , Nawjork
Mary, Ward, Norfolk
Betsey, Barnet, do. *
S'opp Nancy, Denyks, do.
Driver, Brent, Leogane
Betsey, Elkrhs, Alexandria
A brig and a fckooner are below/names un
known.
TheMhip. John, Whitwell, ©f tb.is port, has
arrived at Amsterdam.
Bush Hill.
THE Public arc .refpeftfully informed, that the
Gardens will open
ON FRIDAY EVENING, June *6,
and Saturday, the 17th, with a
CONCERT
Of Vocal y Injlrumcntal Mujic y
Alter the manner of the Public Gardens , London,
Paris, Vauxhall, See. &c.
VOCAL PEiCFORMTItS;
Mcfrs. Darley, Sen. Dailey, Jun. Bates, and
Mi r s Bro^dhurft
INSTUMINTAt.
M flfrs. Hopeficld, Wolfe, Hoinmann, Brooke,.
Schetky, Petit, Oziiab'utn, Morel, Dc ClarY, See.
Organitt, Mr B. Carr.
Admittance, Half a Dollar.
The Gardens to be opened at Six o'clock, and
the Concert to begin precifelyat Seven.
%* Tickets £o be had and Boxes to be taken at
Mr Carr's muGc store, Market-Greet.
M B. Tickets ot General Admiflioii for the fea
fen, to be had for Twelve Dollars each, at the Bar
of the Bufti-Hill Tavdrn.
Lailson's Circus,
The Public are rcfpeflfully informed that
The Performanres at the NEW CIRCUS,
THIS EVENING, June 17th,
Will begin by a Grand Parade of Equestrian
Performers of both sexes, and
A grand display of Horsemanship,
Bv Xeffrs. Langley, Herman, C. Vandeveidc,
Nicholas Corre, Sully, (the Clown) arid Lailfon.
Mr. Sully, in the cnara&er •of Clown, wilt
perform a variety of Com e Feats.
Mr. Lang ley will leap over several bars and
bles of a very great height* in a Angle lour round the
*Circu».
THE TAYLOR AND HIS HORSE,
A comic scene on Ho.fcback, by Mr. M'Do:ia!iJ.
Mr. Merman will with hit head 00 the saddle
and h.s feet in the air.
Mr. Lallson will perform many rurioua and
diflicul: exercilef m hich he will not undertake to
enumente: amont" others
Tht Grand Leap roer the Riblon,
Standing and upon his knees.
The Four Travelling Brothers,
A ramie Scene on Hotfeb;ck, in one a£W
. The avenir.g's entertainment will conclude by a
new Pantomime, called
i Pantalon Duped,
Or, the Forced Marriage.
In which Mrs. JDevan will perform in the cha
fa'ler of the Goddefe Calypso.
On Tuesday, for the benefit of MifsVANiCi,
after the I queftrian Excrcifes, the firlt repre
sentation «f Harlequin fanrtu-jman Drnti/l, or
r Tkt Manager in Troub'u•
£s* The Doois will be opened »t si* o'clock, tnd
e the p riorma-tcc 1 begin prtciTely hilf Irvtß,
Ji thr gniri.lKijvicll. ,Proposals ««
l?or carrying M A I L S of the a t <
United State's on the foiU wing
Pojl Roads, will be received «.,
at the General Pojl-Ojjice, in
Philadelphia, until the s\Jl
day of July next, induftvL J
MA IKE. an
I Frcta Brewer's or Scoodie by Maciiias, Chan* ' 1
flier's rivet and Columbia, to Naria^uagusoace
I.eave Brewer's every a' i PM, and L<
»W've it Narraguagus the next Tuelday by 6 r *
kerning, lc,ve Narragtlagus every Vedncf
day at 6 a m, and arrive at Brewer's the sex: Sa- , v~
tnrday by 10 * M> , „ ... ...
1. .From Na'raguagus by GouldPjorough, Sulli- ,
van Trenton, BBu mil, Cufline, Pet obfcot.Bv clef-;
ton.' Frankfort, Proipetl and Belfaft to Duck- at
Trap once a week. '■
Leave NatraguagOs every Wednesday by ft a ev
M. a:.d arrive at Dilck Trap tlte next Saturday by ,
ic A M. Rtlurning. Leave Duck Trap every :-0- IC
turd-iy by 1 P m and arnve at Ncrravuagus the ;
btxt Tuesday by 6 p m, |
3. From Duck Trap by Camden, Thomalton, ,
Warren. Watdoborough, Newcastle, Wifcaffet,'
faath, Brtin!Vvick, Freeport and North Yai#iout3l J
to Portland once a week. 1 J1
Leave Duck Trap every Saturday by 2 p m, and '
arrive at Portland the ner.t Tuesday by 6 p M. Rc- . al
turning. Leave Portland every W edrefday by 6 ]
a M.aud arrive at Duck Trap the next Saturday by j
4. From Portland by Biddeford, Welles and . a
Ycrk, to l"ortfm«uth. 1 ,
April TS to oatier 15. Leave Portland every b
Me::day, Wednesday and Friday by 6 a m, and ar- , A
rive at Portfmeuth the feme days by 6 * m. Return- I
Leave Portlniouth every Monday, We.lnef- , a
day and Friday at 9p m, and arrive.at P. rtland on
the next day by 6. r M. i "
Oatitr 1 s to April 15. Leave Portland every ,
' Monday and Thursday at 6 a m, and arrive at I
Pertfmouth on Tuesday and Friday by 10 a m . Re-1
turnin". Leave every Tuesday and »
Friday at 1? m, and arrive at Portland every J
Weduefday and Saturday at 5 p M.
r Vrorn Portland by North-Yarmoruth, Free- ,; c
pert Brilnfwick, Bath, Wifcaffet, Dresden, Pittf- a
ton and Hallowell Hook to Hallowull court house,. 1
ciiceawcek. • I
Leave Portland every Friday at 8 A. M,ana ar
live at Hallowell court-house the not Saturday by I <
! p M. Returning, Leave Hallowell court-house *
every Wednesday by SA M, and arrive at Port- 1
land on Thursday by 6 PM. \
6. brcm WiCcaflet by Drefderi, Prttaon, Hallo- •
well Hook, Hallowdl court-house, Winthrop,
Monmouth, Green, New-Gloucester and Gray to
Pcitland once a week.
Leave Portland every Monday by 6 A M, and '
arrive at Wifcafiet on Wednesday noon. Return- '
Ig. Leave. Wifcafiet on Wednesday at 3P M, and ;
arrive at P v oi eland on Friday by 6P M.
7. brom Hallowell Hoek by VafTalborongh, i
Fort Halifax, Winllow, Fairfield and Canaan to
Nerrid"ewbk onie a week.
Leave Hallowell Hook every Wednesday at II 1
AM, ard arrive at Norridgewock 011 Thurlday I
by 6 I'M Returning. Leave Norridgewock on
Mohday at a P M, and arrive at Hallowell Hook
on Tuesday by 6 P M
-- From Hallowell Hook to Farmingtoa on San- ;
i'y river orce in two weeks.
Leave Hallowell Hook every other Wednesday
by 8 A M, and arrive at farmington by 6 P M.
Returning. Leave Farmington every other Thurs
day at B°A M, and arrive at Hallowell Hook by 6
PM.
9. From Portland by Falmouth, Gorham, Bux
ton, Standilh, Limerick, Parfonfield, Khaplcigh
and Lebanon toJßerwick, once in two weeks.
Leave Portland every other Monday at 8 A M,
and arrive at Berwick on Wednesday by noon.
Leave Berwick every other Wednesday at 2 P
M, and arrive at Portland on Friday by 6 P M.
10. From Standifii by Flinftown, Frybirg aca
demy,Conway and Tamworth to Sandwich in New
Haraplhire or.ce in two weeks.
Leave Standifii every other Tunfday ky 8 A M,
and arrive atSandwich on Wednesday by 6 PM. Re
turning. Leave Sandwich every other Thursday at
8 AM, and arrive at Standifii on Friday by 6
P M.
11. From Wells by WaterboiV, Sanford, Dough
ty's Falls, Berwick and Dover, to Portsmouth once
. a week.
Leave Wells every Tu'fdayaby 6 AM, and ar
rive at Ponfmouthon Wednesday by ic AM. Re
turning. Leave Portsmouth every Wednesday by
iPM, and arrive at Wells next Thursday by 6
PM.
XEIV-HAMFSHIRE.
tt. From Portfmeuth by Dover, Rocbefter and
Moultonborough to Plymouth, returningby New-
Hanlptcti, Meredith, Gi!m;nt«wn, Nottingham
and Durham to Portsmouth once in two weeks.
Leave Portsmouth every other Wednesday by 8
AM, and arrive at Plymouth the next Friday by 6
PM. - Returning. Receive the mail at Plymouth
every other Saturday by 8 A M, and return to
Fortfmouth the next Tuesday by 4 P M.
Kote. " The pt ft is to go and return on this route
alternately." .
,y from Portsmouth by Exeter, Clielter, Lon
donderry, Amlierft, Peterborough and Marlbo
rough to Keene, once a week.
Leave Portsmouth every Thursday by 8 A' M,
arrive at Exeter by one P M, at Ch«fter by 6 P M,
asd at Keene on Saturday by 4 P M Returning.
Leave Keene every Monday by 8 A M, ajrive at
Chester on Tuesday by 4 P M, at Exeter on Wed
uefday by 9 A M, and at POl tfmouth by 4 P M.
14. From Concord by Plymouth to Haverhill,
enceaweck.
Leave Concord every Monday by 6 A M, arrive
at Plymouth on Tuelday by 3 PM, and at Haver
hill on Wednesday by 4 P M. Returning. Leave
Haverhill every Thursday by 8 A M, arrive at
Plymouth en Friday by 9 A M, and at Concord cn
Saturday by 4 P M.
15. From Exeter to Hampton Falls, three times
a week from April IJ to Oaober 15, and twice a
week from 05ober 15 to April lj.
Leave Hampton falls in one hour after the arriv
al alter the arrival of the mad from B»fton, and
deliver it at Exeter in two houri, remain at Exet«r
two hours and return to Hampton Falls in fix
hours liom the time of leaving it.
MASSACHUSETTS.
16. From Newburyport, Haverhill, Kingflon,
Exeter, New Market and Durham to Dover once
Leave Newburyport every Monday ty 10 A M,
»rrive at Dover on Wednesday by noon. Return
ing. Leave Dover on Wedrefdav by 3 P M, and
arrive at Newbuiyyv* on Friday liy 3 P M.
17. From Salem to Gltrucel'er nnce a week.
Leave Cloueeficr every Wednesday by 7 A M,
end arrive at Salem by 11 AM. Returning. Leave
Salem every Wednesday by 1 P M, and arrive at
Gloucester by 6 P M.
Note. Should this mail be carried in a ltage it is
to be carried a» oft«n as the Cage; runs, the hours
delired to be Gated in the proposals.
«R. From Salem to Marblchead tbrer times a
week. Leave EaUm every Koocay, Wednesday,
and Friday immediately after the arrival of the
mail from Boston, and deliver it at Marblchead in
enr hcur and a half, kave Marblchead in one
born- and a half nnd return to Salem in two hour,.
19. From Boston by Auilovcr, Haverhill and
Chester id ConeorJ ik Kj\v e once a No
week. at S
Leave Conc6rd every Monday by 6A M, arii Ve j
at Cheller by 2 P M, and arriva at Bollon on Nc
Tuesday bf "4 t* M. Rittming. '.cave Bbßbn every 1
Friday by 9 A M,arrive at Cheller on Saturday by *' - l
ti AM, and arrive at Concord on Saturday by 6 '' el
I'M. £;
10. From Boston by Concord, Lancaster, L<o- j 0 v
m'.nftcr and Albhurnham to Marlborough, Keene
anJ Walpole in New rtampf*iro.
Leave BoHon every Wedmidty and Saturday by i I
6 A M, and arrive at Leonuuller by 7 P M.
Leave Leoinialler every Thursday by 6 A M, wr
arrive atKsen; by 9 PM, <Sc at Walpol onFrlday by
nAM Returning. Leave Walpole every Satur- ™
day or Sunday by 5 A U, arrive at Keene by.9 ,
AM, and at Leolhinit r m the evening. Leave f|
Leomir. N r every Monday and Thurfd; y by 6
a m and arrive at Boitqn by 6 P m.
11. From Bofion by Quincey, Hingham, Hano- lt
ver, Plymouth, Sandwicn, Bnrnftable, \ armouth, L;
Dennis, Harwich and Chatham to Truro once a !11
week.
. ! Leave Boston every Thursday by 3 Pm, arrive bi
. at Sandwich on Friday by 6p m, and at 1 ruro the
. next Sunday by 6 am. Returning. I.eave Truro ar
* every Monday by 8 am, arrive at Sandwich on L
. ' Tuelday by 7r M, and at Bolton qn Thursday by u
,1 IO A U. ,
%%• From Sandwich by Falmouth and Holmes
j Hole to Edgartown once a week
; Leave Sandwich every Saturday by IP r and
' arrive at Edgarton on Monday by lr a m. Return-
I ing. Leave tdgartrtr »n Monday by 2 r m, and n|
! arrive atSandwich on Tuesday by r.t on. t !
I - 23. From Boston by Sharon, Mansfield, Norton
. and Taunton to Newport once a week.
■ j Leave Boston every Monday by 6 am, and ar
. rive at Newport by 6rm, on Tuesday. Returning N
i Leave Newport every Wednesday by 8 * M, and
j arrive at Boston on Ihurfday by 6 pm, y
i 24. From Boston by Chatlefton, Medford, Wo- d
r bum, billerica, Chelmsford and Tyngboroegh to 7
. j Amherft once a week. '
.1 Leave Boston every Thursday by 10 am, an*
arrive at Amherft the next Saturday noon. Rc- p
,! turning. L&ave Amherft every Monday noon, and u
I arrive at Boston on Weduefday by 3 p m.
I 25. From Boston by Randolph, Bridgewater, '
, ! Raynham and Taunton to New Bedford.
. j Front May ito November i. Leave Boston every
j Mondays wednesday and Friday at 10 p m arrive at
j Taunton the next day by 11 am, and at New Bed- t
ford by 8 P m. Returning. Leave New Bedford
. every Sunday, Tuesday andThu fday by to r m,
arrive at Taunton the next day by 11 A m, and at
Bejfton by 8 p m
' I From November Ito May 1. Leave Boston eve c
. ry wednesday and Friday at 9 a m, arrive at Taun
y ton by 8t m, and at New Bedford on Thursday & '
e Saturday by X p m. Returning. Leave New *
Bedford every Monday and wednesday by 9 a m.
arrive at Taunton 8 pm, and at Boston on .
Tuesday and Thursday by 7 * m.
, 26. From New Bedford to Nantucket, twice a ;
0 week frenr November Ito May I. Leave New -
Bedford every Friday and Monday by 6 a m, ar- ,
j rive at Nantucket in the evening. Leave Nantuc--
i- ket every Saturday and Tuesday by w a m, and ;
d arrive at New Bedford in the evening.
From May Ito November I. Leave New Bed- :
ford every Monday, wednesday and Friday by 10 ]
J am, and arrive at Nantucket in the evening. Re- >
turning. Leave Nantucket every Tue day,Thurf
„ day and Saturday at 8 a m, and arrive at New Bed
v ford in the evenings winds and tide permitting. '
,n 27. From Taunton by Dighton and Semerfetto
k warren once a week.
I.eave Taunton every wednesday by 5 a m, and
1- arrive at warren by 10 a m. Leave warren by I
p m, and arrive at Taunton by 6 p m.
v 28. From Boston byDeelham, Providence, Plain
1. field, Norwich, New London, Saybrook, Killing
s. worth, Guilford and New Haven to New York
6 u'lree times a week.
From May I to November l. Leave Boston eve
*" ry Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday by ic A m,
;h arrive at Providence by 6p m, anrive at Norwich
OH wedDofday, Friday and Monday by noon, at
New London by 3 p m, arrive at New Haven on
Thursday, Saturday and Tuesday by noon, at Stan-
P ford by 9p m, and at New York on Friday, Mon
day and wednesday by noon. Returning Leave
a " New York every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday
w by 10 am, arrive at New Haven on wednesday,
> briday and Monday by i p m, at Norwich en
-I hrrfday, Saturday and Tuesday by noon, at Pro
vidence by 8 r m, and at Boston on Friday, Mon
day and wednesday by I r m.
November Ito May I. Leave Boston every
h. TueUay, Thursday and Saturday by 9 a M, ar
cj rive at providence the next days by 9 a m,' at New
London every Thursday, Saturday and Tuef
ir_ day by noon, at New Haven on Friday, Monday
j " and wednesday by 3pm, at Stratford by 2 r m,
and arrive at New York on Monday, wednesday
\ and Friday by 11 a Ml. Returning. Leave New
York every Saturday, Tuesday and Thursday by 11
am, arrive at Stratlord the next days by 8 p m, at
New HaveH on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday
by 9 a m, at New London on wednesday, Friday
nd and Monday by 3 p w » providence, Thursday,
w- Saturday and Tuesday by 4pm, at Boston on Fri
iffl day, Monday and wednesday by 3 PM.
29. From Boston by Dedhafti, Mendon, pomfret
' ? and Tolland to Hartford «nce a week.
'(j Leave Boston every Thursday by 7a m, arijve
. at Hartford the next Saturday by 6p m. Return
to ing. Leave Hartferd every Monday by 8 A M,
and arrive at Bolton on wednesday by 5 p m.
itc
30. From New Bedford to Newport once a
in- week.
10- Leave New Bedford every Thursday by 6a m,
and arrive at Newport by 4r m. Leave Newport
VI, every Friday by 8A u, and arrive at New Bedfori
M, byjPM.
"£• 31. From Worcsfter by Rutland, Pcterfham and
at Nort l,field to Brattleborough once a week.
■ J - Leave worcester every Tuesday by 1 p m. ar.d
arrive at Brattleborough on wednesday by 6 p m.
Returning. I,eave Brattleborough every Thurs
day by 6 a m, and arrive at worcester on Eriday
noon.
er " 32. From Breokficld by Belchertown, North
ivc amp ton, wor thing ton, rittsfield and New Lebanon
at to Albany
cn Leave Brookfield every Tuesday and Friday by
9am, arrive at Northampton by ( p m. Leave
nes Northampton every wednesday ar-dSaturday at 5
= a am, arrive at pittsfield by I P M, and at Albany
on Thurlday and Monday by 7 p Returniug.
•iv- Leave Albany every wednesday and Saturday at 5
md AM> arrive at pitt»fiel3 by jr m, at Northamp
;tßr ton on Thursday and Monday by 7 p m, and ar
fix r j ve at Brookfield on Friday and Tuesday by 4
'" 3. From Springfield by We!l field and Stock
bridge to Kinderhook once a week.
May I to November 1. Leave Springfield eve
on ' ry Tuelday by 3 pM, arrive at Kinderhook on
Dce Thursday by 6 P M. Returning. Leave Kinder
w hook evi'ry Friday by 9 a m, arrive at Stock
' bridge iy 3 r Leave Stockbridge on Monday
bv 6 a m', and arrive at Springfield by 7 p m .
' November I to May I. Leave SprirgfieW every
wednesday at 6 a m, and arrive at Kinderhook on
W I hurfday by 2p m. Returning. Leave Kinder
' hook on Thursday by 4 r m, arrive at Stockbridge
on Friday noon- Leave Stockbridge every Tuef T
' day at 6A M, and arrive at Springfield by 7r m.
34. From Suffield by Weft Sp ingfield, Northamp
' " ton, Greenfield, Bratlieboroufrh, Weflminfter, Wat
;Ur? pole, Charleftown and Windfoi to Htnover twice a
week.
s a Leave Suffichl every Tuesday and Friday at am,
riiveat Norlhainptonby t r M,at Walpoleon Wed
'he nf frijy jn d Saluraav by jpm, at Wind'or on Mon
-lin day arul Thonday by rm, and at Harover by 7 r
one M Returning. Leave Hanovr every Tuesday and
urs. Friday by 6 a M.airive at WirnKor by 1 p M,at Wal
and pole en \Ved;.t!day aod Saturday by 7p k, and at
Jtforthamot on oh Thursday and Mofoda) by tisori, and ab
ai Suffield by 7 f m. t l '
From Hanover by O'ford and Haver.itll, t*J
N; whury once a week. , ' n
Leave Hanover every Wednesday by 6 a m, arrive
it Haverhill by 4 tit, >nd at Newbury by 5r M. 9r
Retaining. Leave Newbu»y every Tliurfdiy ttv 6 A R
m, arrive at HuVerhill by 8a m, and at Hanover by at
6 r m.
■■ ar
V RMONT.
36. Fronrv Windsor, by Royalfton, Randolph, WiJ r.
1 liamfton and Moutpelier to Burlington bace in t^o
I weeks.
Leave Windsor every other Thuifday by O A m,
and arrive at Burlingtoothe next Saturday by 6•' • 0
Returning. Leave Burlington evcrv other Monday
by 6 a m, and arrive at Wmdfoi on Wednesday by 6
r M 1
37. From Windsor to Ru ct a wctk.
Leave Rutland every Monday bv 7 * m, and arrive
at Windsor on Tuesday by 6 rm. Returning.
Leave Windsor every Wednesday bv 6 a m, and ar
live at Rutland on Thursday by 6 r m. (
3s. From Burlington by Vergcnncs and Middle-
bury to Rutland once a week.
Leave Burlington every Tl urfday by £ a m, and
arrive at Rutland on Saturday by 6 pm. Returning. a
Leave Rutland eve ry IVtonday by 8 a m. and arrive at
Burlington on Wednesday noon.
39. From Rutland by M-inehefter, Bennington,
Lanfingburg and Troy to Albany. .
Leave Rutland everv Monday at 8 a M,and arrive
at Albany the next Wednefdav by 6p m. Return
ing. Leave Albany every Thursday by 8 am, and
arrive ?t Bennington by 7p m» Leave Bennington ll
on Friday by 8 a m, aud arrive at Rutland on Satur
day by 7 p m-
RIWDE-ISLAND. s
40. From Providence by Brilfcol and Warren to
Newport.
Leave Providence every Monday, Wednesday and a
Friday by 7a m, and arrive at Newport the fame j
days bv 5p m. Returning. Leave Newport every r
Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday by 8 am, and ar
rive at Providence by 4 p m.
41. From Providence by East Greenwich, New
poit, South Kingston, Westerly and Stonington Point
to New London once a week.
Leave Piovidence e very Tuesday by 8 a w, and
arrive at Newport by 6 pm, leave Newport every
Wednesday by 6 a m, and arrive at New London on
Thursday by noon. Returning. Leave, New Lon- 1
don ou Thursday by 3 p m, and arrive at Newport on
Friday by 6 pm, leave Newport on Monday by 7 a 1
, m, and arrive at Providence by 5p m.
: CONNECTICUT.
42. From Hartford by Windham to Norwich
once a week.
Leave Hartford every Tuesday by 6 a M,and ar
rive at Norwich by 7p m Returning. Leave Nor
\ wich every Monday by 6a m, and arrive at Hartford
by 7 P M.
43 From Hartford by Middletown, Modus Land
-1 ing and Colchester to New-London, once a week.
Leave Hartfcrd every Tuesday at 1 p m, and arrive
1 at New London on Wednesday by 7p m. Return
' ing. Leave Ncvv London every Thursday by n a
" m, and arrive at Hartford on Friday py 7 pm.
44. From Hartford by New Hartioid, Canaan,
* Sheffield and Hillfdale to Hudson onee a week
Leave Hartford eveiy Monday at 2 p m, and arrive
- at Hudson on Wednesday by 11 am. Returning.
3 Leave Hudson every Wednesday at ar m, and anive
- at Hartford on Friday by 11 am.
45. From Hartford by Litchfield, New Milford,
. Newtown, Danbury and Ridgefield to New York
once a week.
0 Leave Hartford every Monday by 10 am, arrive at
Litchfv Id by 7 p m, at New Milford on*Tuefday by
r ha m, and at New York on Thursday by 8 am.
Returnrng. Leave New Yoik every Thuifday by 4
1 pm, arrive at New Milford on Saturday noon, at
Litchfield by 7 p m, and at Hartford on Monday by
l ~ 8 am.
I" . 46. From New-Haven by Derby, Southbury,
Woodbury, Bethlem, Litchfield and to Ca
naan, once a week.
Leave Canaan every Monday noon, arrive at Litch
field by 7 p m, and at New Haven on Wednesday by
10 am. Leave New Haven every Wednesday by %
p m, arrive at Litchfield on Thursday noon, and at
xt Canaan by 7 PM.
n 47. From New York by White Plains, Bedford,
Fredericktown, Dover, Shar< n, Sheffield, Great
l " Barrington, Stockbridge, Pittsfield and Williamfton
re to Bennington
ty Leave New York every Monday, Wednesday and
y, Friday at 5A M, the next Wednesday, Friday and
m Monday at 6 PM. Returning. Leave Bennington
0- every Thursday, Saturday and Tuesday by 5 AM,
1- and arrive at New Vork the next Saturday, Tuesday
and Thursday by 6 P M.
If the stages run but once a week on this route the
r y mail isto leave New York every Monday at 5A M,
r " arrive at Bennington on Wednesday by 6P M. Leave
w Bennington on i hurfday by 5A M, and arrive at
New York on Saturday by 6 P M.
*y 48. From New York by Yonkers,Pcekfkill, Fifh
m, kill, Poughkeepfie, Rhir.ebeek, Redhook, Clermont,
ly Hudson, Claverac and Kinderhook to Albany three
w times a week.
[I Leave New York every Monday, Wednesday and
at Friday by 2P M, arrive at Tarrytown by 8 PM.
a y Leave Tarrytown every Tuesday, Thursday and Sa
ay turday at 5A M, arrive at Poughkeepfie by 7 PM.
Leave Poughkeepfie Wednesday, Friday and Sunday
by 5A M, arrive at Kinderhook by 7P M, Leave
l ~ Kinderhook every Thursday, Saturday and Monday,
at 5 A-M, and arrive at Albany by 8A M. Return
et ing. Leave Albany Thursday, Saturday and Mon
day by 3 P M, atrive at Kinderhook by 7 P M.
ve Leave Kinderhook Friday, Sunday and Tuesday, at
n- sam, arrive at Poughkeepfie by 7 p m. Leave
VI, Poughkeepfie Saturday, Monday and Wednesday, at
5 AM, arrive at Jarrytown by 7p m. Leave Tarry
town every Snnday, Tuesday and Thursday, at 5 a
a m, arrive at New Vork at 11 am.
49. From Albany by Troy end Lanfingburgh, to
m, Salem, once a week.
>rt Leave Albanvi very Tuesday at 8a m, arrive, at
Til Lanfirigbnrgh by 10 am, and at Salem by 4p m. Re
turning. Leave Salein every Monday, by 8 am, and
r airive at Albany by 5p m.
a 50. From Salem by Granville, Fairhaven, Ver
, gennes, Bason-Harbour, Williboro*, Peru and Platts
burgh, to Champlain-town, once in two weeks,
M * Leave Salem every other Wednelday by S am, and
r *" arrive at Plattfburgh the next Sunday by 5 PM. Re
ay tuming. Leave Plattlburgb evvy other Monday at 8
a m, and arrive at Salem the next Friday by 4 p m.
h- From Lanfingbuigh by Waterlord, StillwaLer,
on Fort Edward, Whitehall landing and Fairhaven, to
Rutland, in Vermout.
by Leave Lanfingburgh every Thursday by noon, and
ve arrive at Rutland the next Saturday by 6 p m. Re
-5 turning. Leave Rutland every Monday by noon,
py and arrive at Lanfingburgh on l hurlday by 10 am.
52. From Albany by Schencttady, Tripes Hill,
Cenajohanyj German Flatu, O d Fort Schuyler an 1
_ Whitfstown to Rome. T/u times dejired tobejlatcd in
the propojals.
il ~ From Schencftady by Balltown Springs and
Glenfb idge to Sandy Hill once a week.
Leave Schene&ady every Tuesday by 6 a m. and
k" arrive at Sandy Hill by 4p m. Leave Sandy Hill on
Wednesday by 6 am, aud ariive at Schene£lady by
rc " 4 PM.
en 54 From.Tripelbill to Johnfton once a week,
jr- Leave Tripeftiill in one hour the mail arrives
k- from Albany on Tuesday, arrive at Johnfton in two
ay houis, tiay at Johnfton two hour*, and return to
Tripefhillin two hours.
ry From Conajoharry by Cherry Valley to Coo
on perttowH twice a week.
er- Leave Conajoharry every Wedrftfday and Saturday
at 6 AV, and arrive at CooperlUwn by 2 r m
c f. Leave Coopeiflown every Tuesday and Friday by so
a m . and arrive at Conajoharry by 6 r m .
56. From Cooperftown by Butternuts and Oxford
to Union once in two week#.
a Leave Union every other Monday by 10 a m, and
C a arrive atCoopcrttown on Wednesday by 5 PM. Re
turning. Leave Cooperftown every otherThurfday
j l ' by 6 a M,and arrive atUni< nOn Saturday by 3 PM.
C "I 57* rom Old Foit Schuyler by Cinunnatus to
n " Oxtotd Academy once in two weeks.
j j Leave Old Fort Schuyler every other Thursday by
? ] • 6a m, and arnvoat Oxfard on Frfday noon. Re
[ turning. Leave Oxford evtry ocber Friday by 2r m,
afad arrive »t Old Fort Schuyler on Satu.d.y by 7
' From Rome by to Rotte.dara once
in two weeks. * , .
Leave Rome every other thurfdry by 10 a M,an 1
arrive at Rotterdam by 6p m. Returning Leave
I Rotterdam every other Friday by 9 a M,and arrive \j
at Rome by 6.P M. _. . M
sg. From Rome hv Ontida, OnonJamui, Scipio W)
arijl Geneva to Kanandaigua onee a week.
Leave Rome every Thurlday by 10
rive at Kanandaigua the »ext Monday by 6AM
L<*ave Kanandaigua evei y M ndav by 10 AM, and (j,
arrive at Romethe next Thursday by 8 A M. a t
60. From Kanandaigua by
onte in two weeks, C«
Leave Kanandiisjeta every other Monday bjf 10 A
M, and ariive at Niagara the next Wednelday by 7 ir
M. Returning. Leave Niagaia every other Friday L ,
by 6A M, and arrive a: Kanandaigua the next Mo*.- ar
day by 6 A M.
61. From Rhinebcck by Kingston, Snawan '.uiiK,
Wardfbridge, Goihcn, Hamburg, Newtown John
foiilburg and Hope, to Ealton, once a week. y
Leave East on every Thurlday by 3P M» ai*d anive L
at Rhinebecktheacxt Sunday by 5P M. Returnißg. ai
Leave Rhinebeck every Monday by 8 A M, and arrive
at Eaftim en Thursday by 10 A M. w
62. From New York by Hvkenlack, Pararnus,
New Antrim and Chelter to Gofhen once a week.
Leave New York every F«iday at 7 AM, and ar- gj
rive at Golhcn on Saturday by 6 P M. Returning.
Leave Golhcn every Tuesday at 6 A M, andaiirve at
New Yorkt>n Wednelday bv 6 P M.
From Filhkillby Ne-vburg and New Windsor 9
to Gofhcn once a week. n
Leave Fifhkill every Wednesday by 7 AM, and c ,
arrive at Golhen by 5 P M. 1 eave Gnftien every c
Tuesday at 7 A M, and ariive at Filbkill by 5 P M.
64. From New Ye.rk by Jamaica, Huntington, a
Smithtown, Brook haven, Suffolk, Southamptou &
Biidgehampton to Sagharbour once a week.
Leave New York every Thursday at 10 AM, and t
arrive at Sagharbour t| v next Saturday by 6 P M.
Leave Sagharbour every Monday at 8A M, and ar- _
rive at New York'on Wednesday by 5P M,
NEW-JERS±Y.
65. From Woodbridge to Amboy three times a
week.
Leave Woodbridge every Monday, Wednesday ft |
Friday at 8 A M, and airive at Amboy by 9 A M.
Leave Amboy at noon and arrive at Woodbridge by
1 P M.
66 From Trenton by Allentown, Monmouth *
court-houlr, Shrcwfbury, Middletown Point, Spotf
wood, New Brunfwick, Somerset, New Germanton, 1
Pittftonand Flemington to Trenton once a week.
Leave Trentou every Tuelday by 10 A M, and re- <
turn to Trenton the next Tuesday by 6 A M. 1
67. From Philadelphia by I aunton and Atlion to ]
Tuckerton once in two weeks. 1
Leave Philadelphia every other Wednesday by 3
P M, arrive at Tuckerton on Thurlday by 6 P M.
i Leave Tuckerton every other Tuesday by 6A M, and j
arrive at Philadelphia on Wednesday by 9 A M.
68. From Philadelphia by Woodbury,
rough, Woodttown and Salem to Bridgetown once a '
: week, 1
Leave Philadelphia every Wednesday afternoon by
3 o'clock, and arrive,at Bridgetown on Friday by 2
PM. Leave Bridgetown on Saturday at 8A M,
, arrive at Philadelphia 011 Wednesday at 9A M.
69* From Philadelphia by Jenkintown, Plumfteid
? and Pipers by Bethlehem to Eafton once a week.
Leave Philadelphia every Wednesday by 10 A M,
: and arrive at Eafton on Thursday by 2P M. Return
ing. Leave Eafton every Monday at 9A M, and ar
, rite at Philadelphia on Tuesday by 3P M.
70. From Plumftead by Pipers and Alexandria to
Pittfton oncea week.
t Leave Plumftead every Thuifday by 5 AM, ariive
- at Pittftan by 11 A M. Leave Pittfton by t P M,
. and arrive at Plumftead by 7P M.
j 71. From Eafton to Wilkefbarre once a week,
t ' Leave Eafton every Thursday by 3 P AI, and arrive
/ at Wilkefbarre on Saturday noon. Returning. Leave
Wiikefbarrre every Tuesday noon, and arrive at Ea
, fton every Thursday by noon.
7a. From Philadelphia by Norriftown, Trap,
Pottfgrove, Reading, Lebanon and Harrilburg to
- Carlisle.
yr O&ober 15 to April 15. Leave Philadelphia every
I Tuesday and Thursday at funlet, arrive at Reading
t every Thursday and Saturday at 4P M. Leave Read
ing every Fnday at 8 A M, arrive at Carlisle every
, Sunday by 11 AM. Returning Leave Carlisle eve
it ry Sunday by 2P M, arrive at Reading on Tuesday
n by 4 P M, leave Reading every Wednesday aud
Monday by 8 A M, and arrive at Philadelphia on
i Thursday and Tuesday by 4P M.
d April 15, to October 15. Leave Philadelphia eve
n ry Wednesday and Friday at 8A M, arrive at Read-'
ing on Thurlday and Saturday by 11 AM. Leave
y Reading every Thursday noon, and anive at Carlisle
the next Saturday by 11 A M. Returning. Leave
e Carlisle every Monday noon, arrive at Reading on
Tuesday bv 7P M. Lea\e Reading every Wtdnel
e day and Monday at 8 AM, and arrive at Pniladel-
II phidoo Thursday and Tuesday byg AM.
* 73. From Reading by Hamburg. Sunbury and
Northumberland to Louilkirg once a week.
Leave Reading every Eriday at 6 A M, and arrive
:e at Louifburg on Monday by 10 A M. Rciurning.
Leave Louifburg every Tuesday noon, and ariive at
d Reading 6n Thursday by 4P M.
74. From Harrifbutg by Petersburg, Mi.Merftown,
l " Tnompfontown, Mifllintowu, Louiftown, Hunting-
don, Alexandria, Furnace, Belle Fount, Milel
'V burg, Aaroofburg, Mifflinburg, Louifburg, Northum
,e bei'land, Sunbury aud Halifax to Harrilburg once in
two weeks.
Leave Hairifburg every Saturday by 6 A M, wait
l" ing at each poll office which ihall be established on
the route, two hours, and return again to Harrifburg
the next Monday by 8 A M,
e 75, From Somerset by Connellfville to Union once
at a week.
Leave Somerset every Thursday SA. M.arrive
A at Union by 4P. M. Leave Union ever; Friday bv
8 A. M and arrive at Somerset by 7 P. M.
0 76. From Pittfburg by Cannonlburg,
Weft Liberty and Wheeling, to the mouth ot Fifh
at ing Creek, one© a week.
c " Leave Pittfburg every Friday by noon, and arrive
at Vifning Creek on Sunday by 9A M. Returning.
Leave Fifliing Creek ev. ry Wednesday by 4 P M,
r " arrive at Pi tfburgthe nex: Friday by 10 A M.
s " 77. From Prcfton by Washington to Cincinnati
once a week.
' Leave Preston every Friday as noon, arrive atWafti
e" ington by 8P M, and at Cincinnati thenexi Monday
® noon. Returning. Leave Cine innaii every Tuesday
at 6 A N?, and arrive at Washington on Wednesday
r ' by 5P M. Leave Washington at 9 PM, and arrive
to at I'reftop on Friday by AM.
From Petersburg bv City Point to Bermuda Hund
red, three times a week.
c *' Leave Peterlburg every Monday, Wednesday and
n » Friday by 6a M, and arrive at Bermuda Hundred
by 10 AM. Leave Bermuda Hundred by 11 AM,
add arrive at Percilbqrg by 3 P M, on the fame days.
KtmuChY.
l( j 78. From Washington by Springfield, Bourbon,
Lexington, Frankfort and Hanodfburg tO Danville
1( j oncga week,
3n Leave Washington every Saturday by 8// M, and
3 arrive at Danville the next Monday by 5P M. Re
turning. Leave Danville every Tuesday by 8 AM,
aud anive,at Lexington on Wednelday noon, ar.d at
cs Waftiinqt. non Thursday by 6P M.
vo 79' * rom Danville to Leu fv.lle by Beardftown
to onee in weeks.
Leave Danville ev<ry other Tuesday bv noon, ar-
Qm rive at Louisville the next Thursday by 3P M.
Returning Leave Louisville every nhtr Friday by
6 A M, ar.d arrive at Danv il!e on Sa.urday by 6 P M
M 80 From Danville by Stamford and Cumberland
>0 Gap to Moffat's store in once a week.
Leat'e Danville every Monday at 2 P M. and arrive
at Moffat's store the next Ttmrfd.y by 6 P M. Leave
Moffat's store every Fnday by 6 A M, and arrive at
Danville on Monday by to A M t .
ay TENNESSEE.
81. From KooxviHe by South Weft Poiot and
to ort Blount and Craig Fort to Nashville once in two
weeks.
Leav<? Knoxville every other Tuesday by 8 A M»
c " and prrivo at Nalhville the next Monday by 9A M.
M > Returning. Leave Nashville eve y other Monday by
3 P M, iu4 arrive at Kooxville the next Satiud<<y by
8 P M.
MARYLAND *AND VIRGINIA.
8« From Baltimore by F.llieot's Lower Mills,
Court fl> use, C baric (burg,
Middleburgami Wancntoa toCulpeper, c. h. once a
week
Leave Brliimote every Monday noon, arrive at
1 eefrurgon Tu-fday evening, and at Culpepcr Couit
House the next Thu; r day noon. Returning. Leave
Cuh-eoer Court House every Fiidaynoon and ajiive
at Baltimore the next Monday by q A M.
83. From Allen's Frefla by Ludlow's ferry to Port
Conway in Virgina once in two weeks, ,
Leave Allen's Fielh every other Monday by 6 A\f,
and arrive at Port Conway by bP M. Returning,
Leave Port C nwiv every other Tuesday by 8 AM,
ynd at rive at Allen's Fre»b by 7 P M.
84. From Morganto wn by Petty John to to Clarlf
bury once in two *fr«eks.
Leave Morgans wn cverv Qther Monday by 5 A
M, and aniveat Ciirkfburg by 5 PM. Reiuroing.
Leave Clurkfburg every other Tuesday by 8 A M t and
arrive at Morgantown by 8 P M.
85. From Todds to King and Queen, c. h. once a
week.
Leave Todds every Thursday by q A M, arrive at
King and Queen by 11 A M Le*ve Kin* and Queen
at 1 PM, *ud airive at Todds by 6 P M.
86. From Halifax by Danville to Cafwell court
house once in two weeks.
Leave Halifax court-house every other Tuesday by
1 P M, arrive ar Cafwell court-house the next Wed
nesday by 6P M. Returning. Leave Cafwell C
every other Thursday bv 6 A M, and arrive at Halifax
court-house on Friday by noon.
87. From Peterfburgh by SufTet court house
and Southampton court house to South Quay, once
in two weeks.
Leave Peterfburj* every other Wednesday by 6
A M and arrive at South Qpay on Thursday by 6
PM' Returning. Leave ?outh Quay every ether
Monday by 6 A M and arrive at Pctcrfburg on
Tuesday by 3 P M.
NORTH CAROLINA, &c
88. From Newbernto Beaufort and Swanfbofo
once in two weeks, the mail to go alternately.
Lsave Newbern evwy other" Thursday by 6 A
M, remain at each of the offices two hours, and
return to Ntwbern the next
89. From Wilmington by Georgetown to Char
leston, once a week.
Leave Wilmington every Monday by 6 A M
and arriv« at Charleston the nett Thursday by a to,
AM. Leave CharJefton every Thursday by 3 P
M and arrive at Wilmington the next Sunday by
5 P M.
90. From Norfolk by KempfviHe, Great Bridge
and North Weft River Bridge to Jonelboro', once
in two Meeks
Leave Norfolk every other Wednesday at 9 A
M and arrive at Jonelboro' on Thursday by 7 P M.
Returning. Leave Jon fboro' every other Monday,
by 10 A M and arrive at Norfolk cn Tuesday by 6
P M.
91. From North Weft River Bridge by New Le
banon to Elizabeth city, once in two weeks.
Leave North WeA River Bridge every othe r -
Friday by 6 A M add arrive at Elizabeth city by
6 PM. Leave Elizabeth city ev_ry other Satur
day by 6 A M, and arrive at N. W. river bridge
by 6 r M.
9a. From Salem, N. C. by Bethania, Flower •
Gap Grayfoncourt-houfc and Aullinville toWythe
court-house once in two we<ks.
L eave Salem every other gaturday by 6 A M,
1 and arrive at Wythe c. h. the next Mori, by 6p M.
Leave Wythe cotirt house every other Tuesday by
9 A. M, and arrive at Salem the next Thursday by
6 PM.
93. From Murfrcefboro* by South Quay to Suffolk
once a week;
From Murfrcefboro' every Wednesday by 6 M»
| arrive at Suffolk 6P M. Returning. Leave Su
ffolk every Tuesday bj' 6 AM, and arrive at Murfrecl
boro* b; 1 6 PM.
94. From to Pittfburg once in two
' weeks.
r Leave every other Wednesday by 6 A
M, aud arrive at Piltiburg on Thursday at 10/4 My
Leave Pittfburg o:her Thursday by 2 P M, andar-
rive at Fayetteville on Friday by 6 P M.
GEORGIA AND SOU TH-CARQLINA.
95. From by Robinson at the White
. Ponds GilleLs Mills to Coefahatcl y, or.Ce a
. week.
; Leave Augusta every Tuesday by 8 A M and ar
> rive at Caofalwchy on Wednesday by fP M. Re
turning. Leave Coofahatchy every Sunday at 6 A
JVI and arrive at Augusta on Monday by 5 P M.
96. From Georgetown to Rocky Landing in,
i ! Georgia, once in two weeks.
Leave Georgetown every other Monday at 6 A
? M, and arrive at Rocky Landing at 5P M. Re
turning. Leave Rocky I,andmg every other Tuef»
1 day by*6 A M and arrive at G<.orgetewn by 6 i?M.
- NEW JERSEY.
67. From Newcown y Hackctftt wn, Morriftown
a and Chatham to Newaik, and from Newa k back by
Chatham, Morriftown, Booncron, Rockaway ar.d
Sparta to Newtown, once a week,
n Leave Nowto\vn every Thursday by g A M and ar-
rive at Newark 01 Friday by io AM. Leave New—
atkevery Friday bv - P M, and arrive at Newtown
e on Srturday by 6 PM.
e Note I. The Pojl Majlcr Generalp:ny alter the limes
Y of arrival and departure at any tisfieduriug tbe continuant e
of the contrtifts, bj previoufy Jlipulating an adequate corn*
* fen fat, on fur any extra expense that may be occaftoned theft-
P Note 2. Half an hour foall be 'allotted for opening
and cloftng tise i/tailat a!I offices tvocre no particular time
is spec ifed.
ti
Note 3. For every hour's delay (urraxoidabfc arcidevtr
excepted) in arriiing after the tines prefer ibed in any can
y trail, the Contraflor J/iall JorJeit one dollar, and if the dc
y lay continue until the departure of any depending Mail,
y whereby the Mails dejiined for futh depending Mail, Ife
e a trip u* additional Jorjatune of Jive dollars shall i>c
incurred•
i-
in the Mails ; and if any person mating "profofals dejires
I to carry newspapers than tbofe conveyed in the mail„
for bis o-wh emolument, be mujl fiate in bis propefah for
lubat sum be will catVy it ti tto that emolument and jor
•what sum ivithsnt that tmolument.
n,
ie Note 5. Sbonld any ferfun tnaling proposals deftre 1 cn
alteration of tbe times if arrival and departure above fp*~
id cifed, bernuft Qate in bis proptfals the a(teti tinn sfc^t t d y
e- an i tbe difference tbey toil I via ice in the terms of Lij c*n
trad.
at
Note 6. Persons making prop'fuls are Jef.red to
■tbeir prices by tbe year. 7 bnje nbo cunt rati ivill rerei-v
r _ their pay quarterly, in tbe me tis of January, April,
1. k J v h un<^
•y
.1 Note 7 Tie eor.tr a (is are to ie in operation cn tie frR
id day of Vftcbt r next, and continue for four years, until
tbe frfl of October 1801 —excipting contracts for tJ**
vr routes No. 8, 9/ 10, 31, 36, 50, 51, 57, 60, 74,
vc 76. 77. So, 81, 83, 84- 87. 90, 91, 91, 96
at which Alt to corM/iUiJor tuut -jean until lb yi ij Qilvb-r y
*799"
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Foji-Mafter General.
,j ( General Poft-Offict, 1 biUMpl'a. >
vl'. M.-,y 179 J. 1 ji
by Jus». lawtjjr