#afette of UntttfJ States, Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Nvmbe* 1359.] MONDAY EVENING, JANUARTI6, >797. ■ XI.
Mas, G R A T T'A N
RefpeiSlfully informs her friends, and the public in
general, that on Tuesday the ioth day of January,
she propofei opening, at No. 39, North Sixth- jy
street, a fir
Linen and Muslin. Warehouse. c,
Sc
Book Muslins, from 6/3 to 12/11 per yard
Jaconet ditto, from 8/8 to 9/8 per yard at
Striped ditto, from 7/10 to io/io per yard jj,
Fine 6o f faes m
Tambour'd Book Muslins, from 13/ i) to 2\f per yard
India Muslin, from 11/3 to Isf per yard -j-
Sheeting Muslin
Jaconet muslin Handkerchiefs, from 4/3 to 6/ per hdkf.
jiook muslin Handkerchief* ftom j/3 to 10/6 per hdkf. 7.
Muslin color'd and border'd Handkerchiefs
Dacca Handkerchiefs ' ,
Tambour'd Cravats from \of% to l/H f '
Pocket Handkerchiefs
Cambric, from 11/3 to 16/3 per yard ul
Table Cloths '
Huckaback Towelling _ .
Women's Cotton Hose, from to 13f per pair
Dimity from J/10 to 6/11 ' c
Men's Silk Hose
Tambour'd muslin Handkerchiefs from 11/ ii to ij/i
Irilh linens for Gentlemen's Shirts, from.j/S to 9/7 _
And a variety* of other articles.
N. B. Orders received for all kinds of ready made
Linen, Gentlemen's Shirts, ruffled or plain, Cravats,
Pocket Handkerchiefs, &c. &c.
Houthold Linen, &c. &c.
' V
A plain fliirt, made and mark'd, 3 l-a dollars. |.
A full ruffled ditto, 4 dollars. Q '
A plain Ihirt, made and mark'd, 5 dollars.
A full ruffled 1 itto 6 dollars.
A plain fhipt, made and marked, 5 1-1 dollars.
A fill ruffled ditto 7 dollars.
A plain (hirt, made and mark'd, 6 dollars.
' A full ruffled ditto 7 l-».
A plain ft in, made and mark'd, 6 i-i dollars.
A very fine ruffled ditto 8 dollars.
January 13. {
For Sale,
Two Convenient BRICK HOUSES,
Three stories high, <16 feet front, and 40 ftet 4-ep
each, and adjoining; situated on the ealt tide of Front,
between Race and Vine-streets ; Nos. 161 and 163.
They will be fold on very reafonablo terms, either
separately or together. Apply to
r JOHN MILLER, jun. & CO.
Jannary »3 1 diw
F 0 R SALE,
fajl-fail'mg Jthooter ORION;
Seventy tonsburthen ; fifteen months
nIH ; her frame is of the befl of white
oak : ihe is a laittllul built veflel, handsomely finilhed off
1 and well found ia every particular ; is ready to receive a
tar jo oi» board, and can be put to sea without any ex
pence on her hull, fails or rigging : foe Sows Sx hundred
barrels; has a handsome cabin and lteerage, and a half
deck which will Sow from feventy-five to eigh.y barrels;
has been newly caulked, graved and painted. For terms
apf i y to BENJAMIN RHODES,
At No. 170, corner of Market and Fi(th-flreets,
.Or to the Captain on board said schooner at Messrs.
Willis and Ya'rdiley'a wharf, adjoining Chefnut-ftreet
wharf; where there is for sale ;
Excellent pickled Salmon in barrels,
the be! of American Mel's Beef, and some very excelknt
Bolton manufactured Chocolate,
December 46 4
CjfeL For Sligo and Killibegs,
American Ship Nanct,
Cuthbert Riggs, master.
fail with, all convenient speed. For
freight or paflage apply to
William Bell;
Who has for sale,
4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well »florted
3 Bales Irilh Flannels, and i boxes Linens
a.? Pipes Brandy
Madeira Wine ; Indigo . Russia Matti,
Also,
A few barrels Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
OATMEAL, &c.
November 11, 1796, , mwftf
FOR SALE,
1 HE SHIP MARY,
SAMtJEL PARKER, Maste*,
wo hundred tons burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MARY is not fold in a few days, (he will take
•■eight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
Oflober 31. d
I ———————
For Sale, or Charter,
The Ship DIANA, '
Samuel Pile, Mailer,'
Burthen 20J 47-95 tßns rf S ifter ' built
Philadelphia in the year 1792, of hvej oak
andredcedar, and was sheathed t 3 months ago, Ihe
has just had a coinpleat outfit,, and may be sent to sea
at a very trifling expence.
For terms apply to •
Philip Nicklin Co.
trho have fir sale on board said uejel,
jycaiks oi fine yellow.pai?ft. _
0 boxes'and 11 bundles of writing llates.
1 box ink flands and note prefles.
14 bales of fail canvass.
And on hand,
Imperial ~) . _
Hyson, and, TEAS.
Souchong J
40,000 pieces Nankeens of the sis ft qaalrty.
19 tubs Quicksilver.
1 chests Bandanno handkerchiefs. ,
A few chests Manchester goodswell aflorted in Cor-
Juroys, thicksets, Ginghams, Muflinets, Dimities,&c.
3 boxes black sewing fiik.
180 crates Queens ware well aflbrtea.
10 tons sheet lead.
Nails assorted, flat and ihatp points.
London Particular, Madeira Wine in pipes
London Market, r an( j hoglhcads.
New-York Market, j
40 pipes and to higfheads Tenenfli wme.
8 tierres Snake Root.
330 lags Mahogany ( ~«f
Nov 7. Mf:XiU
BALL.
New ColiHions, Scotch Reels, and' Contrc Dances.
Meltrs. Francis and By-n beg leave to inform their
scholars, friends, and the public in general, that their
firft Ball for this season will be on Tuesday, the 24, at Si
O'Ellers's afTembly-room ; at which a variety of new
Cotillions, Contre D\nees, and th v e molt celebrated
Scotch Reels, will be introduced. W
Meflrs. Francis and Byrn propose to give gratuitous
attendance at their school room, for the mftrudlion of
those Ladies and Gent'.emen in their new dances, who S
mean to hon»r the ball room with their prefen'se,—at
tendance for this purpose after their school hoars, on 1
Tuetdays, and Thursdays. v J
Tickets to be had of Messrs. Frances and Byrn No. •
70, North Eight street, or at O'Ellers's Hotel. La
dies are requested to apply to their female friends,
scholars of Messrs. F. &B.or a3 above, at their rafi- ;
dence.
N. B. The new daacet will not infringe upon the j
usual routine of the evening. • ]
The days of teaching for their young pupils are Thurf
days and Saturdays, from three o'clock in the afternoon
till fix—and on Tiieidays Sc Thursdays, from fix till nine, —
for those of a more advanced age.
*„* Private tuition as usual.
January 11, 1797.
. Philadelphia and Lancaster Turnpike b . ei
Company,
!•» January 6, 1797*
At a meeting of she President and Managers, a di
vidend of five dollars per (hare, was declared for the
last half year, which will be paid to the Stockholders,
or their representatives any time after the sift of this,
month.
TENCH FRANCIS, Treasurer.
Jan. 6. xaw4w. na
Women's Cloaks.
GEORGE DOB SON,
No. 25, South Third-street,
Has just received, per Eagle, Capt. Fefdick, via I .on- ' ;l
don, an ; tf irrment of
Scarlet "N '''
Drab / Cloaks trimmed with lur and D
Purple and ( ermine. E
Ptarl J Si
r § D
— — 1 ~z 7 t
Parcicuiar Tentriire Wine, a
A
50 d)uarter-caflcs Particular Teneriffe WINE,
Of a superior quality, c -
For Sale by al
A. Mar pie iff Israel W. Morris, ft
No. 6®, Dock-street. o
January 12 tts6
Boarding and Lodging
May be had at No. 62, Penn-ftre£t, in a creditable J
. family
January 9
: od* NOTICE.
' .1
THE Sales of LANDS of the United States, in the
North-Wellern Territory, heretofore advertised
in the ieveral public pipers, will commence ihis even
ing, City Tavera to be continued from day
to day, 'till the tenth of February next, if not sooner
[ fold.
January 4 §
SALT P E T R E.
A larce quantity of Double-Refined Salt Pctre for
sale at No. 25, South Tbird-ftreet.
November r.
THE SUBSCRIBER
r WISHES to ascertain, whether a certain EDWARD
NEVILL, by trade a Stone-Cutter, or Brick Layer,
who quitted Ireland in 1783, or 1784, and came inte
this Country, ('tis supposed to Philadelphia) about
four years finee, be living or dead. A» this intelli- .
gence is of thehigheft importance, it will be thankful
ly received, by GEO. DAVIS,
No. 313, High-street
December 31. w&f nu
For Sale,
By George Defchamps, No. 91,
NORTH SIXTff-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels
I and half barrels \
Ditto Herring and Mackarel.
Smoaked Herring in barrels and kegs
■ 0 Ditto Salmon, by the dozen or single one
Dry Codlifh, from one to fifty kentals
:e Fine and ooarfe Salt
Nova-Scv>tia and French Plaster of Paris, in the stone
and ground, for manure and stucco-work
December i.
Imported from London C 3" Liverpool,
EARTHEN WARE, in crates end hoglheavlijj well
assorted *
• Wine Bottles in hampers
Window Glass of all fi7es
le Two cases of stationary
, a One chest of yellow Jesuits Bark
Two cases of Roll Arnotta
A fniall consignment of Rose Blankets, Flannels,
Baizee, Broad-cloths, Coatings, Plains, &c.
Paints of various colors.
Basket fait in hoglheads. .
Also on hand,
Madeira wine, very el4> in pipes, hegfheads and
quarter calks ,
Holland gin in pipes, firft quality
Anchors of different (izes
A few trunks of ladies French (hoes assorted
Silk nankeen, &c.
Likewise an assortment of Dutch goods, confifling of
ticklenbergs,bed-ticks, flripies, checks.
Morhix linen, platillas, ravens duck, Britanrtias, &c»
And for sale by the package only by
Thomas & fohn Ketland.
Walnut-street Wharf.
Nov. 15. eotf
* FOR SALE,
About 1,600 acres of Land,
es WELL situated, laying on and between Marih
and Beech Creeks, Mifflin county 1 , Pennsylvania, in
four faparatt Patents. For terms of sale apply to
Win, Blackburn,
No. 64, South Second-ltrset
tf October 31. mwftf
Wm. Holdernesse, No. 76,
HI CH-STRBET, M
Has received by the late arrival*, to|
A Well Stle3ed Assortment of
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and,
Haberdashery Goods,
Which he will fell, wholelale and retail, on the very
lowest terms ;
Amongst ivhitb are /
Some elegant 4-4 and 7-8 Chintzes and Cottons, new *
patterns
Ditto Furniture ditto
Ditto Din>ity
Tamboured, Boak* and JatOnet Muslins
Ditto in Gold and Silver ..'
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine
Mantuas of the firft quality
Silk and Cotton Hosiery
tjmbrellas of tlic firft quality, assorted
lrifti Linens, very fine, and Table Linens
Marseilles and Cotton Coidterpanes
Rose Blankets aflorted—&c. &c. * a
OAober 26. d *j q
Cheap French China. wl
THE subscribers finding it impossible to supply their
store with any more China from France, the prices
being too immoderate in the manufactories, give no
tice that they will fell at prime cost the remaining
ttock on hand, confiding of
Dessert Setts,
Setts P<
Separate Cups and Saucer* C
Groupos and Figures le
Alabaster Vaf«« S<
Looking Glasses, in gilt frames, 2;
Bcfulcs India Japan'd Toilet Desks, Chairs, Tables lii
nad Quadrille Boxe;. PASQUIEK & Ce. oi
No. 91, South Second-street. r<
December ?th. tli ai
A Printing-Office for Sale; pi
Situate in the city of Burlington, on the river De- fp
laware, about 20 miles from Philadelphia. tl
Confiding of t<
French Cannon, Roman and Italic
Double Pica, ditto ditto
English, ditto t ditto
Small Pica, ditto ditto
Do. on Piea body, ditto ditto I
Two-line Letters —Flowers
A good Mansgany Pref.— Stone
Also, Chafes, Gallies, Composing-sticks, Ricks,
Furniture, &c. complete. .
The situation is eligible for business, and the office,
calculated to execute any kind of work. The terms „
are reafanable. Apply'<o H. Hammerer, jr. Crown
ftreef, near Race-street, at No. 43, Race-street, or ,
of Mr. John Neale, Eurlingtoji. si
January ic tl
Just Landing, £
At South Jlrcet wharf, from «n board the (hip Stdg'
ley, Captain Hodge, from St. Peterjburg,
The following Goods:
Russia Sail Duck, full quality.
DaJ. - Sheeting do.
D*. Diaper.
Do. Huckaback.
Do, Crafii. '
Do. Mou'd Candles, 4, 5 and 6, to tlx iVof the
EngUQi size.
Do. White Candle Tallow. f
Do* White Socp in small boxes. t
Do. Cordage of fine yarn. ]
Ravens Duck. j
lfinglaCs, lft and and fort.
r Horse Kair uncufkd. •
Russia Bar Iron.
Do. Hoop Iron. 1
Do. Naii Rods*
. 10 Tons Oakum and Junk.
St. Peterfbufg Clean Hemp:
» For Sale
5 S Philips, Cramond, & Co.
_ O&ohar ii. S
Washington Lottery.
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be purchased or
exchanged for prizes, at the Office, No. 147, Chefeiut
freet, w T here > a correct Numerical Boek is kept for public
infpeifion. Also Canal Lottery Tickets for sale er ex
changed for prizes diawn in the Washington Lottery, of
which the 54th and 55th days returns are received.
£f" The Bufjinefs ot a Broker carried on as nfual.
%* A SHARE in the NEW THEATRE to be fold
on reasonable terms.
January 12. ttstf
Office of the Injurance Company of North-America,
January gth, 1797.
The Dividend declared by the DireiSors, for the last
fixmonths, is two dollars, for each ihare of stock in
le this cempaay, which will be paid to the Stockholders
or their attornies duly authorised, at any time after
the 19th inft. By order of the B»ard,
~ tawti 9 th EBENEZER HAZARD, Sec'ry.
Fresh Garden, Grass and Flower-Seeds,
Roots, iffc.
This day landing from the Ihip Eagle, captain Fofdick,
from London,
And FCXR SALE by «
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE,
Comer of Walnut and Second-flreets,
A mojl capital and txtelt/ive AJfortmmt of
GARDEN, GRASS and FLOWER-SEEDS,
ROOTS, &c. &c.
Among which are,
>d Five kinds Asparagus Threi kinds Cfafles
Four Bcrecole Twelve Onion
Twenty-five Bcaus Thirteen Radish
Six Beets Fifteen Turnip
Efctveii Brocoli Fifteea Peas
Twenty-fix Cabbage Six Savoy
3 f Six Carratj Four Parsnip
Three Cauliflower Twenty-three Melon
, Cl Five Celery Twenty-one Letnaee
Ten Cucumber
Common and lemon Thyme
Curled leaf aqd sprigged Parsley
Pot Marygold Pot Marjorum
_ Ijalm Thyme Mangel Wurtiel
Leek Rail Shallots
Rape Seeil Rye Orals Saint Fom Lucerne
Red and white Glover Timothy, &c. <tc.
•rt, With a curious collect iol) of tf le mot e^ecmed
in . FLOWER-SEEDS and ROOTS,
to Being the moil extensive ever imported into this city.
The above are from a capital Seedsman iu London, and
are, wir. anted frefh and good.
Prin ed catalogue* m. y be had by applying as above.
Dsc. ij. '
WANTED,
A MECHANIC, to erefl Spinning and Weaving
Machines by water, such as are used at pay manufac
tory —Apply to James davenport, .
No. 401, North Front-street«
N. B. None need apply but a complete mechanic,
and a man of {lability.
Globe Mill, December 29, 1796. §
FOR SALE
At Whitcfides' Tea Ware-House,
No. 99, North Second Street.
Imperial C Hyson Skin.
Hyson, > Frelh Teas. < Sou cVong,
Young Hyson, j CBohea
Dec. 9. ' gta^ai.
A C A'R D.
If Monsieur G. H. S&HLt,
Who leA Bordeaux the soth June last, and arrive*'
at Boston i.bout the middle of Aageft, in the schooner
Jane, is in Philadelphia) he is requested to call on
Jofrph Anthony 8c Co. No. s> Chefnut-ftreet, who
will give him Tone information of importance.
1 December 24, tjf6. < f
In order to empty with centralis, I lu'ili fell, f»*
approved bonds, on 3 equal annual payments,
A Square of LOTS,
At the upper end of Frederickfburg, beginning op»
polite to theiower corner of DoAor Wellford's, op
Caroline-Areet, and running up 10 the cross street
leading to Fitzhugh't ferry, and from thesice back to
3ophia-ftreet. This fqware I have laid off iato 14 lots,
27 and an half feet front, and 121 back, 12 on Caj-q*
line-street, and 12 on Sophia-street. Nine of those
on Caroline-street I have leafed on an annual ground -
rent of 8 and (0 pounds', to the amount of 74 pounds,
and the vacant lots a purchaser could enhance the value
of by building small houses, which will as readily
procure tenants as pota or goards will Martins in the
spring, and yiel-ts a greater profit in proportion to
thtir cost than large buildings. Those who incline
to purchase may know the terms by applying to
HENRY FITZHUGH.
Beli-Air, Dec. 8, 1796. 7thJ.d4W
For Sale,
By J. WARDER, PARKER &? Ci.
An Invoice of Cordage,
Confiding of different Gzes, from 12 inch cables down
to rope ol 2 Inches,.Of different lengths t Imported in
the ihip Swift, from Hull, and entitled to drawback.
Sept. 27 , ' dtf
Notice to Creditors.
, The Assignees of Bernard Dougherty late of Bed*
ford County, will make a dividend of the effecfW in
their.hands, immediately after the firft day of Febrvn*
ry next to such Creditors as may furmih their account*
btfore that time.
Thomaj Smith
Thomas Fitzfimons ( . *
Isaac Hazlehurft C ;
Miers Fisher J
Philadelphia, Jan. 9, 1796. diw__
Philadelphia, Jati. 4th, 1797.
All persons indebted to the Estate q(
Joseph Paschall, deceased,
ARE requested to pay their rtfpeflive debts without
further delay, stherwiie their accounts will be put into
the hasds of aB Attorney to recover—And all those who
have any demands againil said Eilate are de&red to bring
in tlieit accounts for fettlemcnt, to
SAMUEL CO ATES, ")
CHRISTR. MARSHALL, jun V El'rs.
CH ARLES MARSHALL. > eox
Public Notice,
IS HEREBY GIVEN, that I have applied to the
judges of the Supreme Court of this state, to supply ths
defeA in my Title to a lot of ground, situate on the Weft
• fide of Fourth-street, containing in breadth 20 feet, and
in length. j6 feet, bounded Northward and Westward, by
ground of the fubferiber, Southward by ground of Edwaril
Shippen, and Eastward by Fourth-ftfeet, occasioned by
r the loss of a deed from Timothy Harrington, John Lewi*
and James Walton, by their attorney Robort Mollyneux.
iC —All perfoas conocrned, are required to appear before
two of the justices of the feid court, at the house of
>f Thomas M'Kean, esq. the Chief J jftice of'the state, on
the 30th inft. at 10 o clock in the forenoon, to make theil*
answer to the bill of the fubferiber, filed in the office of
Id Edward Burd, esq. Prothonotary of the said ceurt.
/ WILLIAM SHIPPEN, jun.
Philadelphia, January 6th, 1797- dtjoth
•» * Bank of Pennfylvanifl,
ft ■' January 4, 1797.
m At a meeting of the Directors th ; s day, t dividend of
rs sixteen dollars on each fliare wa» declared for the last
" T 6 months, which will be paid to the Stockholder* af
ter the 14th inft.
y- JONATHAN SMITH, Cathier.
r, J» n - 3- dtf - _
A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRST & 2d proof,
Gin, of 4th proof, in pipe*
Jamaiaa Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhd*
Old Hock, in cases of 40 dozen each
GUfs Tumblers, in pints and half-pint*
Window Glaft, in boxes, of different fiae*
Hazlenuts, in sack*
Whiting
er T a ' , C in hhd.
eg White Lead C
>n Sc Spanilh Brown }
ft* For Sale by Ba-IGHTs.
'P January 4 § ,
as ' " 1
>r ' The Elephant,
Now exhibited, wa* bought for Teti Thoufaftll
™ Dollars.
He is 3 years old, 6 feet high, growing to 18 feet.
He e*ts 150 weight a-day, and drinks a barrel of
water ; he has drank some days forty bottles of
drawing the oorks with his trunk.
He is perfc&ly inoffenfive; travel* loose, at the
rate of five miles an hour, and is the greatest curioiity
ever brought to this Contiaent.
He is to be seen 'till the 15th of January, ill
Market-street between Third and Fourth-streets, at
a quarter of a dollar, that every one n»ay fee him—
after which time the former price of half,a dollar wilt
nd be resumed.
He will leave Philadelphia as soon as the weathv
will permit.
December <*New Theatre, q
The French Company's Night. Ass
— Th
THIS EVENING, MONDAY, January 16, c
W4II be prefixed, by the French Company, .
A COMIC OPERA, called
JLA MEL OMAN lE.
After which a COMEDY, in 3 aits, called p t(
, -The Married Man. tiv<
To which will b« added a celebrated OPERA, in a yoi
ails, called fuF
Les Deux Petites Savoyardes. »U
As exprefied in the bills of Saturday.
■fy Box, One Dollar twenty-five cents. Pit one Dollar, m<
And Gallery, half a dollar. thi
— — tu
ADVERTISEMENT. ««
As a Bill is now depending before the Legislature «f P r
Pennsylvania relative to unfatisfied warrants, 1 meet- tts
ing of the holders of such cliims is requested to be cr
held at Mr.Dunwoody-'s on 'IJuefday evening the 17th ,1,
inft. at fyt o'clock, iu order that a memorial on the
occafien may be prepared and laid before the House.
January 16 • _ y j;
PROPOSALS, m
For carrying the Mails of the United j»
St ATJLS, jj
On the following'P ojl Roads, will he rectived until c(
thcjirjl day of March next inclujtve : t j.
'I. From Charleston, S. C. by Jackfonboro' and Coofa
hatchy, to .Savannah, twice a week. Receive the,MaU
*t Charleston every Tyelday and Friday by 6, P. M. and n(
deliver it at Savannah the neict Friday and Monday, by 8 w
A.M. HeturninjTy the . Mail at Savannah every
Saturday, by 6, P.M. andWednefday by 6, A. M. and
deliver it at the next Tuesday and Friday
bynot>n. >
Prtptfals for this route -will be received by the pofl-majlw *t
Savannah. c l
t. FromCoofahatchy to Beaufort once a week— £
R«ceivc the mail at Coofahatchy every T,hurfday by 6,
y. m. and deliver it at Beaufort by noon on Friday. Re-
turnings leave Beaufort every Friday by 3, V. M.and arrive
at Coofahatchy on Saturday by 8, a. m. °
Proposals for carrying the mail on this route will be re- k
etived by the post-master at SJeaufort. ti
Note I. The Post-master General may alter the times a
for the arrival and departure of the mails at any time da-
ring the continuance of the contracts, he previously ftipu- .
latiag an adequate compensation for any extra expence 11
that may be occafioncd thereby. H
Note a# For every hoars delay (unavoidable accidents
excepted) in arriving after the times prescribed by con-
traA,,the contractor (hall forfeit one if the
delay continue until the departure of any depending mail
an additional forfeiture of five dollar® (hall be incurred. u
Note 3. Should any person malcin; an
alteration of the times of arrival and departure above fpe- f
cified, he mul state the alteration desired a«d the price
ke will carry the mail for with and without such alte-
ration.
Note 4. The contrails are t© be in operation on the 3
firft day of April-next and to continue until the 30th of I
Stptemberin the year 1800. 1
JOSEPH HABERSHAM, a
Poji Mcjltr General.
General Post Office, >
Philadelphia, Jan. 13,1796.3 1
Jan. 16. d6w. a
College-Hall. 1
Readings and Recitations, <
Mtral, Critical, and Entertaining.
Mr.'F E~N NELL i
Refpeafully informs the Public, that
On TUESDAY EVENING, Jan. ij, at 7 o'clock, J
Will be delivered, ]
.(FIX ST PART)
PREFATORY OBSERVATIONS,
On ELO<y>ENCE,
"Including fele&ions from Dr. Blair.
(second part)
... CRITICAL OBSERVATIONS ON MILTON.
Difcription of. the fall of the Rebel Angels-, Milttn. |
Satan's Speech, ' ° -
Belzebub'j Speech,
Satan's Reply, dO, <
(third PART.)
Ode on St. Cecilia's Day, p "P e -
Ode on the Pafiions,. • Collins.
0- On THURSDAY,
( FIR.ST PART)
Selections from the Vicar of Wakefield, Gold/with *
(secoshpart) 1
Edwin and Emma, Mate.
L'avinia, , Tkomfon.
(thirb Part)
The Hermit, Thorn/on.
'£TOn SATURDAY,
On the Means of Improvement in Eloquence, with
feledlions from the moll .pieces of oratory.
Tickets t»be had of Mr. Poulfon, jun. at the Library ;
ai mr. M'Elwce's looking-gkfs-ilore, No. 70, S. Fotirth
ftreet; and at Mr. Carey's, Bookfelkr, Market-Greet—
Half a dollar each. ; .
'Ml<S. GRATTAN
Refpeafully informs the Ladies and Gentlemen of the
City, that the second
LADIES' CONCERT .
\Viil be on TUESDAY NEXT, the 17th of Januvy
at Mr. Oeliers's Hotel,
'Act I.
Grand Sinfonio, Haydn.
Hdly Lord, Mrs. Grattan, Handel.
<*oneerto Violin, Mr.. Gillinjham
Trio and Chorus, Siege of Belgrade,, Stface.
Act IP. -
Concerto in Bb. Mrs."Grattan, Duffek.
Ah non fai, Mrs. Grattan, Saiti.-
Quartett, Pleyel.
Grand Chorum Pirate, Storage
*4_* The Concert to bepin at h-alf part fix ;; and at
lialf past eight, the music w ill attend for the Ball.
Mrs. Giattan begs'leave' to inforßi the Ladies and.!
Gentlemen, that the fubfeription-beok is at her bouse '
No 39> North Sixth-firect, for the rect]stion of those
who wish tohdnor htr with their commands.—
A fubfeription for eight nights 16 dollars, including a
Gentleman and Lady's ticket, both tiansferrable—
Hal£>fubfcriptions 8 dollars, including one ticket.'—
Single ticket 1 dollars.
Mrs. GratJan takes the liberty of refuelling the
fubferibers to fend for their rickets any day ifter
Thursday, the 15th of December, at Ne. 39, North
Sixth-ftre«t.
. gySinglt tickets to be had the day of the Concert
oply, at the Bar of >lr. Oellers's Haiti. \ ' (
To the Senate and House of Reprefeiitativ«s °! dre
the commduwealtU ol Peutifylvanu, in" Gantral
Affcmbly met. - <1
The memorial of the president and rrtanajersof the <(
Schuylkill and Sufquehanaah canal navigation, „
and the Delaware and Schuylkill canal— „
Refpettfully (heweth, y
That, in a memorial dated January 25, 1796, „
presented to the Senate and Honfe of Reprcfenta
tives of this commonwealth, at their last session,
your memarialifts iecapilulatir.s the 'fobftance ol
fußdry former memcn iala, and acknowledging v wi' th
all gratitude and refpeft, the encouragement and
support which they have derived from the aid and ?
protection of former legislatures, in the manage
ment and profecutian ef the work committAl to .
their.duefilion, endeavorcil " the magni-
tude and importance of the fyftepi of land >nd wa
ter communica;ioi% projaAed and sow in rapid
progress, under the auspices of the Hate, through jj.
its various part 6 j tendirg to the incalculable in
crease of our agricultural and commercial interells,
the -population of our extensive tetritory, and the m
general prolperity of our citizens ; ftrenglhening
the hands of their peaec and union, promoting cf
• viliEition, arts, fcitnccs, order and good govern
mant, by the means of improved roads and the in- j £
land navigation of our great rivers, (the Delaware,
the Sufquehannah, the Allegheny, the Mononga-
, hela, the Ohio and their neinlerous navigable bran- g
ches) interfedling and spreading thcnafelves pve't
the whole> country ; so that scarcely a farm can be t
fettled, or village built within the state, which may
' net be greatly accommodated thereby, and from [(
which our variety of produce, and our manufac
fures or their raw materials, may not be carried in
a few hours, or almost in the space of a day to
some of our great rivers, or their navigable bran-
1 ches, when duly improved and with the ((
cpiial navigation, lea iiHg to and the
Delaware and Sufquehannah tide waters.
' That the navigation from Philadelphia to that -
I new and important tiading Itaiioil at Prcfqu'*ifle
on Lake Erie (whereof the canal between Schuyl
■ kill and Sufquehanna is the main link on which y
the foccefs of the whole depends) opens a water p
' communication of about tivc hundred and fifty (1
| miles, within our own (tate territory, and thrpugh
, its mod central and fertile parts en the Sufquehan- I
sah and other western waters, to a town and fort
s of our own on the said lake, and from thence by
' the other great lakes and waters, to the chief
C [ trading places of theWcllet n Territory ar.d the
[. utmost bounds o'f the yi.ited Slates,.
n That the advantages of this navigation »<e of f
- such vail profpeA, that «ur filler state of New- r
e York wiih a noble fpirii of enterprize although by
a route of fix hundred and eighty miles (that is j
t about one hundred and thirty miles more than from | t
if Philadelphia to the fame place, as has been calcu- [ <
lated in a farmer communication to the legislature) |
appear to have it in contemplation to rival us in \ t
these advantages, or at leall to (bare them-with us, t
if not to engrwfs them wholly to themselves; far
at present the garrison and lcttlemSnt at PrtCq'u' J
isle are obliged to derive much of their /upplies ,
by this eireuitous route. The incorporated canal
companies of that state, animated by the l«b«ral
aid of their former legiflitures (continued fw>m
year tq year, arid oot relaxing in the present Ex
piring year) have now nearly completed the navi
gation mentioned in our last memorial, as well as
other branches cotinefled wilh it, then in contem
C * plation, and ailiduoully prosecuted during the last
funnier and autumn.
In our last memorial the exertions of other Dfter
dates (especially Maryland ar.d Virginia, refpedl-'
ing the Potomac and James river navigation,
winch, it is said, will be in full operation by the
next year) jnd the great encouragement and aid
n. given by their legislatures, were mentioned, by
o. your memorialists ; knowing the liberal fenti
"• mentsof the citizens of those dates, and that
°' did not consider us, as " lamenting their progress,
but according to our former declara'.ion, admiring
,' s their public spirit and noble exertions to improve
the natural advantages of their country and defy
ing to imitate and emulate them ; looking upon e
very encouragement given by any of the litter ftatcs
hfor drawing the trade of the lakes, the Ohio, apd
Miflifippi waters to any of our sea ports is a benefit
tactile whole Union, and, that as a tedimony cf
this, we had cheerfully and from time to time,
n consented that our engineer fliould give his advice
and afliftance to them, as often as it could be done
without any material inconvenicact to ourselves."
y. Yonr memorialists forbear to trespass an the time
of the legislature, by reciting many other material
y ; points, dated in our for Tier memorials, as worthy
:h- of confideratiori ; and particnlaily our last memo
— lial above referred to ; trusting that so far as they
have,not been acted upon, they will be committed
and come under conlideiation with this memorial.
On the particular fubjeit of an intercourse with
the Lakes and Western waters, by means of inland
navigation, and the benefits to be derived from the
fame (the objects for which our canal were inttitu
iry ted) together with the spirited exertions of a filter
state to (hare if not carry the prize j your mcmori- !
ali-ds are happy to find that the sentiments expref-
In. fed in tkeir lad memorial, are fauttioncd, and the
lei. way opened for their ready reception by the address
of the executive magillrate of this state to the le
ce" giflafu're, at the commeuteraent of the present fef
jj. fion.
l( -'. Speaking of the relations of agriculture and
fe l. commerce, with that spirit of . difccrument, and
irt comprehensive regard to the bed interest of the
lat state, which Lave always maiked his legiflativecjm
munications ; he fays—" In order ta promote
anij << t | )o f e cffcntial interests, permit me cameftly to
" recommend a liberal perfevcrancc in the policy ol
I " extending ar.d facilitating the communication be
,g a ; " tween the different parts of the (late, by every
e— " praflicable mode of roads, bridges, and canals
— " Indeed the spirited example whieh yout prede
'• cofTors gave, haj-exciied, in one of OUI fider
Hie <1 Jt an emulation so active, as to de
" mand fpme extraordinary exertions on our part,
" rntrcly for prefcrving that portion of the bene
cert " fits arilinf from an intercourse with the likes and
" WtUcrn waters to which our local position and
"other natural advantage, havirjaft'y entitled us.
And he adds, in anoint'' part ut his ipeech or ad- bul
dreis, the following consolatory and animated con- win
fide'afion—" 'That having reviewed the general U- tro
" tiistionof the public affairs, a«d cursorily poin-
" ted uut the principal that, may be
made—l proceed, gentlemen with the higlielt
" fatisfaftion to inform y>u, that the date of our
| U. fir.a-c«9 will dflure to all your undertakings, an
" abtmdant and constant fuppiy of wealth to po
which, asamougthe number of those constituents,
may your memorialists be permitted tq subjoin a rt
petition of a sentiment in the concluding claufc or ma
their lalt memorial, consonant, they are persuaded, ,
to your own feelings and those of our fellow citi
zen. in. general, Namely, that the finances of the
ttate being in firch a flourilhing condition, and like- att
|y to continue in a ftatc of growing prosperity, 4*l «
that next to the lives and liberties of the peojrfe. rcl
the management of their public finances and pro- thi
perty is the greatest trufl which can he consigned to , to ,
their legislative cotinfelior, and servants; there can its
be no part of those finances applied to more honor-
able and advantageous purposes than to the improve- f 0(
mert't of the eountiy, the dissemination of knowi it
ledge, arid the encouragement of arts and manu-
fa&ures, agriculture and commerce ; efen if some
present loss were to be fuftaired in the return of in th ,
tereft on the capital to expended. For that the H.
highest pofiible mtereft on a bonded capital, would
be a poor equivalent for fuffcring the improvements a j,
•f a great and fertile country to languifhand decay tr
till legislative aid, like Venetian succours might th
come too late aud after the battle was 1011. But
when it il further demonttrable {even in point of in- ru
tereft) that by an aftiv and timely application of th
that capital tri such improvement!, and the
confrquent increase of population and the wealth of n(
oui citizens, a revenue will be crqated of manifold
more value to the date than the most ufuriou3 in a
tereft, a word more need not be added !
[To l>e concluded iff our next.] it
Philadelphia, January 16.
An allying friend bat favored us ■with a Haifa* fu- „
per of Dec. 27 ; from -which the faltivMp article g
ii copied. d
I HALIFAX. December 17.
. Froth the LONDON GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY,
Head-Quarters of his r®yal-highneu the
Archduke Chailes of Autiria.
Schiingen, -O&oker 2s, 176,
f My loid K
I HAVE the honor_to inform your lordlhip, that his roy
al highoefs the Archduke yeforday attacked gen. Moreau's
army* iq the formidable position ot Schliugen, with to much
f fuccels 1 hat the encmv quitted itjlaft night, and is now ih full
- retreat towarda thet6te-de-pont near Huninguen. v
Notwithstanding the vi&ory obtained by the Archduke on I
the 19th, find the coftfequent operations of the aoth aad ft lit,
s j grntfal Moreau, contiary to what wasexpedied, determ ncd
1 I to make another effort to mamtam himfelf on the right bank.
- j of the Rhine, or at least to defer, as long as poflible, thepaf- %
\ ! sage of that river. For this purpose he took up a position
' i near ."chlijigcn* the uncommon strength of which alone could
I 1 have enabled him to adopt such a refolutiou without expoling
, his army to deikruttion. 1
r noiition which general Moreau had chosen, is so u"u- c
, coir.raoAiy strong, thai Twill attempt to defer ike it to y*Ur ;
loidlhip, in hope of conveying feme feint idea of thf difficul
s ty of the operations-which have been performed- j
II The "flat country, which, exterfding frotn the M\yn »o
1 wit hi? two German miles of Bade, fepaiatcs the mountains j
1 of Franconia and Suabia from the Rhine, becomei', to the .
a iouthward of Maihsim. almoit a regular oblong, about an
BifgUfh mile and a halt in breadth—at the feuth-eaft aagleof
[. which is ihe village of Schiingen. This plain is bounded on
the south by a rivulet, which, rifmg at the front ot the ;,igh <
li mountains called the Hoiiei? Blaueu, near the village of Sufcn ]
1 Kirchen, ruhs to Ober Eckenheim, and thence in a wefteru
Lt direftipn, through Niede* Eckcnhcim, Lieland Schiingen, to
Steinftadt, where it falls the Rhine. At Schiingen, the
hills on the right of the rivulet (which are steep, aud covered
?r with vine>ards) furn suddenly to the northward, and run in
t-' that direction towards Mulhcim, from the eastern
l of the plain; butthofeen thtf left bak of the rivulet, whicn
aic very high and commanding, continue quite to the Rhine,
T&here 'hey terminate abruptly Not far from the fonrce of
d the abovementioned rivulet, there rises another, which, tak-'
►y ing an opposite, that is, a ( y u h r calterly direction,
{. through Sitzenki!chert, and, at the village ot Candern, falls
into the rivulet of that name, —wnich, running South and S
)' Weft, through a very deep, and, for a considerable diitar.ee,
s > almost impafla'ble rayine, dilchargcs itfelf into ihe Rhine, fix
g or seven English miles above Steinftadr. A third rivulet, rif
/c ing about an Englilh mile to the weKward of Candern, runs
in a nearly parallel dire&ion to the latter, through Fenerbacli,
r " Riediingen, and Badcnmulhc, and tails into the Rhine a lii
e- tie below the rftoutji of Candern.
cs Between the heads of the akoverrtentioned ravine, is a
J( j chain of high rugged hills, covered with extensive and very
thick woods.
In this alroqft inacctflible situation, was placed the right
of wing of the enepiy's army. The corps whichj:overed the ex
e tremity of it, occupied Lautern, aud the fur
' round nig heights, whence the line proceeded along the hills
ZC above Ober and Nieder Eckcnoeim, Liel, Schiingen and
nc Steinftadt, all which places were flrongly occupied ; and the
left flank of the I ne came quite to the Rhine, which run>
nc close under, the height ot Memftadt. Advanced before the
. , center ot his army, the enemy had a very (trongcoips of in.
fantry on the heights, and in the vineyards between Schiingen
1)* and Fcldberg.
io- About en English mil#? in rear of of tfie position,
that is, to the southward oi Liel, is the village ot Tamer.-
kirch; between it and Liel, is the higheit hill of the whole
position ;& from l'amenkirchen the ground lal 4 towards the
al. ravine in BieJlinger* ishtuaud. i»o that, in cafe of the
itb right wing being dtiven from the extremely ihoaggrotind on
wtiich it was polled, it had, by tailing back to the heights
nQ of Tamenkirchen. another go«>d position, .rather en jtototce,
indeed, to that of the left wing, betwecuf but tFTeJ
U- fal'.entpart io to ured by the high and alinoltiniuackablc h>ll
between Tamenkirchen and Liel.
' n attempt tooblige Moreau to quit his position, by marcl*-
ri " ing a very llrong colurun through th« mountains oh the lett
cf- slink ps the centre, and through the Wielemhal, so as to
he threaten his communication-with hrs tete-de pont at Hu.iin
ess S uen ' wou been too tedious an opcratiuu in tii* pre
, a lent situation of affairs, ar»d attended with the utmofl diffi
'c" culty, how that the rains have rendered it so bad. ihe Arch
tf duke th refore dctei mined to attack the rigiit wing of the c
ncmy's army, and, if pcflible, fiorn the hi lis above Candtro,
Fenerbach, Suaenkirchen, and pber and Nieder Eckenheim;
1 after gaining pofTelfion of which ground, his ruyal-highn«U,
in< J if the enemy perfevtred ih, maintaining his position, could,
the the next day, have proceeded to theatutk cf the heights.be
,m hind the ravine as Bicdlingen. The attempt wa* arduous;
but every thfhg was to be expe&ed from the exertions of rhc
0 army; for tha gallant examples invariably fhswn the troops,
to in the most trying fixations, by-the Brother Of the Empaior,
-©J and the great ability with which he has Commanded ihem,
be- ave * n^P' l^e army \yith a degree of confidcncc in
and enthusiastic attachment to h>s royal which is
cr T carried to enthusiasm
als The attack was performed in the following manner. The
army w*s divided into four principal columns ; the firft, or
1 right column, confided of the Prince dcConde's corps, tom
r manned by liis fereni highnefa, its advanced guard being led
scry the duke d'Enghien ; the feconi co.umn con Gifted of nine
lit, battalions and twenty-kx Commanded by the prince
nc of Furftenburg; the thiid column, of eleven ba Ulio/uaod a
, brigade of cavalry, under general La Tour; and the fourth
Column consisted of the whole advanced guard of the army,
ind under major-general Naueiidorf*
The two fiift co'ur. s >»rw«:e SfeiuvS :o expiry "he
foas to urevent tu. detailing cnrfider.bly,l»pm-hl» leu,*,, t|
but not to attempt any teal ~n the nrt.« Pquuo;: ot t;,^
wing, the ground from ScfaUngen lo the Rhine bet t,o
ltronc to admit ot ir. ,
The third and fourth columns wCTcto ro*Ketnercil»tta<.k»
on the enemy', right wing, and to endeavor to get round I,is
fl Tht prince ot Condi's column aflcmbled at Neuburg, and
advanced to SLeinttadt, which village they ait eked and car
ri.d, and maintained with great firmnefs during the whole »
day. though entirely commanded by the left of the enemy'*
P °l hc prince of Furflenburg's column affembl dMulheim,
and advanced towards Schlingen. ; It took pofletfton ot ihe
heights oppofitc the enemy'* position fcehind Schlingen, and
maintained them under a levere cannonade.
General La Tour's column marche t from Vegehtim thro
Feldburz. The rigtr wing of it attacked the enemy in the
vineyards between Fcldburg ayd Schlirwen, whilst the left
drew them out of Felkenhetm, then t'ne ravine, and
attacked the woody hills behind it. The nature of the ground
was such, that both thefc attacks«i« with the most obttmate
refinance; the right, however, at length succeeded in forcing
the enemy to quit the vinevard, and reure b hind Lie!, and
the left, atter driving them oui of a great part of the wooa,
took position with its right flank t. Nieder ickenhetm, and
its left extending tow ards teueibach.
General Nauendort's column had preceded general La- J|
Tour's as far as Feldberg, whence it too,, to the left along the f
foot of the mountain on which tlands the cattle of Burglcin. j
It then divided into fcveral columns : one ot thefc attacked
the village of Siicnkirchen, and, after carrying it, defend
ed by the ravine I have described, towards Candern. Ano
ther column, ot much more coufiderable foiec, to the left of
the former, was commanded by general Naueudorf himfclf.
He attacked the ftroßg height situated between the ravine of
Sitrenkirchen and that of Cindern, and having gpir.ed pelfcr.
(ion of them, after much oppofuion, he arrived immediately
above the town of Candern. A third column of light-infm
trytnd hufiars, commanded by major-ge»eial Meerfeld, drove
ths enemy from tiieitiong woody heights to the right ot Sit
zenkirchcn, and got poffeffionof all the hijh ground between
Candern and Fenerbach, which forms a part of the chain a.,4
runs between the heads of the ravines, and is connected with
the high hill between lame.iltirchen and Liel. *v these means
general Meerfeld was enabled to eftablilb a communication
near Fenerbach, with general La Tour's left—The enemy
now drjven also from the village of Canuero. 1%
Genera! Nautndolf's covps had been in march all night,
and, owing tothe extreme badness of the roads in the moun
tains. (rendered almost impalftble) had «ot been able to
commence its real attack 'till two o'clock ; so that it was late
in the afternoon before itfuccccded as far as I have raeotion
, ed. An extremely-thick, mist, tollowed by a violent Ikorin,
which lalteU 'till dark, put an cud totheaaion.
The enemy, finding that,the-operat'ons ot the day com
pletely prepared the way for an atuok Upoifcthe heights of
- Tumeakirchen, (which was to take place this morning)! did
I not choose to await it, but retreated in the ■tghc. His rear
guard quitted the heighu behind SchliHJSfl about four o'clock.
) ttiis morning, aud he appears to'be retiring towards the tei»»
dc-poat at Humngaen. I have the honor to be, &c.
r R. CR.AUFOKU. S
By this day's Mail.
' NEW-YORK, January tj,
I Wc learn tlitt the lofi of Mr. Boudiuet of New
wark,'altho' hiieftaili were raoftly fived, amounts t*
i lo,ooc dollars.
The house of Hugh Davit of Rihway, ( has been
' burnt, and a girl of i» years of age.
1 By the ship Alexander Hamilton, from Liverpool,
; Mire h?.vie received papurs to the 19th Xov. from which
] wt give the most material intelligent.
t II appears that a fleet ®f 15 fail. of the line, badly
manned and equipped, was at Bieft, ready to fail—
destination unknown ; and it is said 80,©00 men were
r colle&ed, whetherfor Ireland or Portugal is uncertain.
Sir Ralph Atnbercr«'mbie, in tke Arethufa, failed for
the Well-Indies, Nov. 15.
9 It was reported in London that Sir Gilbert Elliots
5 t* a prisoner in Corlica. •
c ' The Prince of VYuttemberg, the intended fpeufe of
the Princess Royal, has in England.
„ The whole of Morcau's army has iroffqd the Rhine,
h exoept a division in Kcbl and its environs, ihe whole
r. loss of that army in Germany is stated at «o,oco men.
" ITALY, Oaobcr 26.
e The new corps of the army, which ha? afTcm
u bled near Gorz in the Frioul, is com.pofed<>f 25,000
y men, great part of wnidh are Cioats. 1 hiscerpi,
■n commanded by general Quofdaaovich, was to havc
'' marched on the 16th, to Verong and Mantua. It
is certain that the advanced gniaro had,move.4 «n
es the 14th, under the ol -general Liptay.
' 5 General Davidovich, vtfio commands a much
' larger ccpj, to vfhtch the Tyrolean volunteers flock
L x in crouds, i> to advance towards Trent and Ro
f- teredo. It hat been already reported, that tHi®
r " corps had commenced its march, and d»iven the
French from their pofrions noar the. former ; but
official reperts of a later date do rtot make any. men
a tion of this event, and we therefore do not attach
r >' any belief to this story.
x! TRANCKFORT, Oaobe t 2B,
ir - We learn from Tyrol, uuder date of tfct «9tJi r
that general baroii Alviiizy has taken the coff>9<anii
be chief of the troops under generals Quofdaitovich
ins and Davidovich, who have received £uch eonfidera
bie reinforcements as will enable them to a& on the
ollenfive. We cxpeft to )iear every day that these
troops have effected a junttion by the reeaptnre of
>n, Trent and Baflanu. . >
:r—
TRIESTE, oaober 21.
;he The following is aceiretft translation of the note
011 by which M. Galeppi, plenipotentiary mini Her of
Fius VI. announced to the Fieuch comtniffionera
tFTe, Gairao and Salicetti, the determination of bis holi-
V'l ness not to accept the conditjans ot peace ofTcrcd,
Ar lather di&ated.by the French directory.
I ct i " The undersigned plenipotentiary minister of
to his holi*c£> the pope Pius VI. has the honor to
in infoim Meflrs. Gariau and Sahcelii, cummilfariet
of the executive dire£t»ry with the Frencli aintiti
of Italy And the Alps, that having laid before
:c- holineli the Cxty-four articles proposed by tlieil'
m, excellences, under the condition that they mull all
s ' either be rcjedttd or accepted to their full extent,
aid, Hl3 holiness, after having examined -4heni, and
be- taken tiie advice of the holy college, declares, That
neither religion not faith do any ways allow
,p S him to accept t;.em.
1 or, " It is with the concern his holiness has
cm t found r that beftdes the articles already proposed at
Paris, tending to oblige him to difapprovc, iCvoke,
and annul all the bulls, rescripts, briefs, and apof-
Fhe tolic mandates,.iffued under the Authority the
1 holy fee, with respect to the asia irs of 'France, since
i d t ' )e )* car ; there were several o.thers, which,
line beitig equally prejudicial to the Ctthalic religiau
inee and the rights of die chutch, are co.ifetjuently in
a°h )■ without entering into any discussion
my, concerning thole whi h are del{ru£livc both to hit
iovrn 'j;nty auc iuthiiuons ; peiniciou* to the hip*'ptnefsand tranqajlityof hii fufeje&s, and evidently
contrary to tl\e rights of other nations and powers,
U.w'ardsWhom the holy fee would not even be able
to maintain itfelf nedtral. Hi. holiness hopes,
tbeiefore, that the executive directory, from its
dwn sense of rectitude, at well at in conGderation
of the mediation of hit majesty the king of Spain,
will do juftiee to the powerful motives which have
determined hit holiness to give his refufal which he
is obliged to enforce at the hazard of his life.
" Given in Florence, the 15th Sept, 1796.
( Si S ned ) " GALEPPI,
" Minister plenipotentiary to his holiness
the pope Pius Vl.''
BANKS OF THE MAYN, Oft. jt.
Official report transmitted by hit royal highness
the archduke Charles, to Earonde Hugel, the Im
perial commiffitntr at Fribourg, October 21.
«' General Moreau, who had retreated with his
whole army to the environs of Fribourg, was on
the point of crofflng the Elz, as it was supposed
with a view of proceeding towatds Kclll, to deliver
that Fortreft which was blockaded by the Auftri-
Uos. A» soon as I received Information of this
movement, I set out from Offenbourg ; but did
sot succeed until the 17th in uniting my corps
d'arms ta that of general Latour : I then fixed
my encampment in front of Herbolifheim. The
enemy had peffeffed themfelvcs of the important
heigh is situated on the right bank of the Elz, and
occupied the villages situated in the space between.
In consequence of General Latour's troops labor
ing under exceflfive fatigue, having made frveral
marches in very bad roads, 1 was forced to allow
them to repose themselves till the lfcth. The .ene
my, however, attacked on that day, and notwith
standing they had in the firft inftsnce forae success,
they were in the event forced to resume the ground
they had quitted.
, " On the 19th I attacked, at evfcry point, and
i* fpitc of the advantage of the heights the enemy
possessed, the bad and a continual rain con
stantly opposing frefe obstacles to our march, the
enemy were driven from the Heights, and forced
to cross from the other fide of the Elz, General
Wartenfleben, who conducted the attack at the
Lead of the column, was da"geroufly wounded.
" The fuecefs of this aft ion was due to the In
fantry, the cavalry ne!t being able to aft. Much
difficulty was found in bringing up to the Hei glits
a few guns.
" The enemy loft 1800 men in killed & wound
ed, about 1200 prisoners, and a gun. One of their
generals of diviCons, Beaupais, was killed.
" On the 10th 1 crossed tHe Elz, and formed a
junction with general Nauendorf's corps, which
had penetrated to the other fide of Vald-Kirch.
But as the "left wing of General Latour's corps
could not be brought up in time, it being necessary
to conftruft abridge in fight of the enemy, 1 was
obliged to content myfelf with dislodging the re
publicans from several villages on the other fide of
the Elz. and taking up.a pofifion with my army
on the left bank of that river.
" This marnirtg every disposition was made for
a new attack, but the enemy had retreated during
the night. I instantly set out in purtuit of-them,
and cam* up with their rear guard ,at this place
(Fribourg). The flight of the enemy is so prcei
pnate, that, according to reports 1 hare this in
flant received, a part of their army has proceeded
in the utmoll disorder towards Brifack and Hun
ingen."
PARIS, November l<.
Extract of a letter from the commandant at Tou
lon, to the minister of the marine and thxeolo
wes.
" Citizen'minifter,
" I give you an account that fliere are arrived in
our harbor the day before yesterday, a Leghorn
Ihip, having 0* board 146 French prisoners t*om
Corsica, from whente they let out on the 23d of
last month. They relate, that at tlieir departure
from Baftia, the Corficans were generally in a state
of infurreftion against the English, and that they
had got poffeflion of the vice roy and the principal,
chiefs; that the English had been enabled to retire
on koard two of their {hips which were at Baftia,
where they embarked all the emigrants, and those
tvho were in appreheufion of the arrival of the
French ; that the viceroy was, by capitulation, to
remain as a hostage, with the CorficaMS, until the
arrival of General Genlili, whom they had sent for
from Leghorn.
«• Two other Leghorn {hips arrived last night,
having on hoard 200 other prisoners, who confirm
the«bove account.
(Signed) Vice-Adrtiiral THEVENARD."
ARMY OF THE SAMBRE AND MEUS<£.
The coanmander in chief of the army of the SaHibre
and Meufe, to the executive directory.
* Head-quarters at Coblentz, Brumaire 7th,
(Qftober 28th) 51b year.
. Citizens directors,
I have tfte honor to give you an account of the
complete fucdefa of the general attack which I or
dered to be made the day before yesterday, the sth
(Oft. 261I1) by the wiii£ on the whole line,
from Creutznarh, as far as Kaiferflatstern. ~-The
troops of the republic have perfonfied prodigies of
valet, and the general* have continued to give
prooftof theirhravery. The main body of the ar
my, directed by the general of division Ligntville,-
whose coolness, talents, and intrepidity proved fa
fuccefsful in the campaign of 179-2 at Montmcdi,
put itfelf in motion at day-break, and fought till
night, lhat it to fay, till it was raafter of the pofi
tions,which the enemy defended with obftinaey.
Geneial Poncet, vhom I had sent to cover the
Communications of Saar Libre and Bilfch, marcned
from St. Weddel to Kaiferflautern, of which he
took pcfleffioo, after dislodging the enemy. & c ~
neral Hardi penetrated through the partes of f alo
kenftei* and Kivcheim Poland, where he took posi
tion ; general Lo'nges forced those of Furfeld and*
Dieffenthal; where he established himfelf. Gene
ral Daui'iez, commanding, the centre, eroded the
Nahe at Lebbenheim, noiwithftanding ihe fire of
eight pieces of artillery, and made himfelf an o
penioj with the bayonet, after having taken ilnee
villages from the enemy, he favored fhi-rapi ! marcli
ot the adjutant-gfueral Gauloy, who Lizcd 15in.
gen, ai)d (he formidable m,)« itain ot Sr. Ro.-(i.
General Klein, commanding the reserve »f the'ea
valry, multiplied Ins movement in such a manner
as to fugport all those attaAs • and the r.-ferve,
united with the centre, coufifting allo« et herof'6ooo
men, forced the enemy, upwards of It.ooo men
Wrong, to retreat. The enemy were oblige.! t«
abandon their four camps. Their loss can Hot be
correaly alcertained, but it mull be very considera
ble. They have left'five chiefs killed on the field
of battle, and we took from thrm too' prifoncrg
and on.e piece of cannon. Citizen Dubois, who
commands the light artillery, Amounted several
of theirs," by the brilknefs of his fire.,-
Arfjntant.general Debilly, chief of the ftaff of
the fame corps, gave proofs of his talents and his
capacity.
, " BOURNONVILLE /
Extrail from the official journal of the army be
sieging Mantua, from the Ift to the ioth Vcn
demaire (Sept. 20th to OS. ;oth.)
Bth Vi-ndemaire (Sept.-zB.)
This day thedivifion forming the blockade of
Mantua matched to Seragiio, to forct the enemy
to enter the fortrefs, and to complete the blockade.
T his expedition was molt fuccefsfully executed, and
the enemy made but a feeble refinance.
October 3.
An Austrian carps, of 120 men and 30 horses,
hemmed in at Montccberugule by a corps of na
tional guards from Rttggio, furreiidered prisoners
of war.
OSober 4..
j One Rey, second lieutenant in the sth half bri
gade, havmg- dared tofti yjan Auftuian officer, pri
soner at Governolo.Miis carnrades, shucked at so
difgraceful a conduit, denounced him to the cam
mander in chief, who-provifiiinally suspended him.
OSober 6.
Four thousand Auftrians marched out by the
gate Del Socorro, to procure forage and wood ;
fix hundred difetnbarked iu the rear of our por
tions ; they at firft repulfedour out-pofis, but were
afterwards compelled to retreat, and re-enter the
place wi(n prAipitation, Two hofttle detachments,
one of 120 and the other of 25 men, surrendered
prisoners.
OiSober 8.
a violent explosion was heard in Man.
tua ; by the reports received i>: the it ap
pears that a gunpowder magazine has blown up:
the (hock so ftronj*, as to have thrown ttpeu several
windows in the caltle of Borgo oi te, at the dil
tance of seven miles from Mantua.
Qflober 9.
This day, at Moon, the enemy appeared between
Prada and St. Antoine ; they were repulfe'd, after
a flight discharge of mufquetry.
LONDON, November 17.
NOTE,
Delivered to the miuifter for the department of
foreign affairs, by lord Malmefbury, envoy of the
British cabinet.
" The underfjgned has not failed to Irar.fmit
to his court the answer of the executive diiectoty
to the propositions wtiich he wascha-ged to m .k.,,
and which intended to serve a# overtures to a
negocia'iou of peace.
" Witji relpeift to the injurious and ofFenfivr
lnfinuations contained in that answer, and which
are only fit to throw new i 1 the way of
that reconciliation which the French gorermtient
profeffes to desire, the kin,r has thought it fat be
naath his dignity to allorv any whatever to be
returned on his part. The progress and lefait of
the negnciation wtU no doubt evince the principles
on which it (hall have'&ecn conduced pn eithflUide,
and it is neither by reproaches, as as they
are without foundation, nor by reciptoca! inftilts,
that a sincere intention is shewn to further the
work of peace. v •
" The undersigned proceeds therefore to the
firft object of difcuflion set forth in the answer
■of the executive directory, viz. that cf & fe
parate negociation, to which it has, without the
least foundation, fuppoied that the underfilled was
authorised to aciede. His credentials and powers,
drawn up in the usual form,' faily autho.ife him so
nigociate and conclude a peace, but they prescribe
neither tbe form and nature, nor the terms of the
future treaty. On tl-efe points he mirft, pursuant
to the custom long ettabliflied acknowledged,
conform himfelf to the inftiu&ions received from
his couit, and he has consequently not failed to in
form the minister for the department of faieign
affairs, in thetr very firft conference, that the king,
tus mailer, had etfprefsly enjoined him rot tu lilten
to any proposal tending to separate the interests of
his majesty from those of his allies.
" A' negociation which eifibraces the interests
and pretentions of all the powers *>ho make a com
mon cause with the king in this present ytrar, is
therefore the only one which can take place. I'a
the courfeof such a negociarion, the inteivention,
or at leafi the participation of these powers, will,"-
no doubt, become-abfaltrrely necessary, and hi*
majesty hopes to find at all times the fame disposition
to tfVat on a jiilt and equitable basis, of which bis
majesty .the emperor and king gave the French go
vernment so llriking a proof at the very moment of
the opening of this campaign.
" But to wait for a formar and definitire au
thority on the part of the king's* allies, before
Grey Britain and France should begin toWifcufa,
even provisionally, the principles of the negociation,
would raufe, it appears, a very useless delay. A
,> eHrfe widely difhrent has been ptlrfued by the
two powers on all forrtier occasions of the fßrtrie na
tuie y and his majtlly is- of opinion,- that the belt.
pledge which at this moment they can give so all
Europe,-of their mutual defit-e to pot a period as
foor. as pof&ble to the calamities of war, would he
to fettle withau. delay a baftk of combined negocia
tion, and to invite their allies to participate in it,
in thebeft manner calculated to accelerate a general
peace. .
" It was with this viej* that the undersigned
had it in command to propose, at sHe very com
mencement of this negociation, a fiinciplc, vrhich,
'its T!>j <jrnera£ity and t roaj faith could aloft;
to 11) n. viz. t»> irulem ufy Francei by pro
-0O r tiufiatc rc.ftitiUi&nsTor such arrangemen 9 3g fl>c*
will cb ifen*Mo in order to fafrttfy thcjtiil claims of
the allies of the ktojr, to prefertfe the political
balance of Europe. I'he Executive Dire&ory haS
not explained iffelf in a precile rtiauner either on the
approbation of this principle, nor in the alterations
an<» modifications whicri it mayJefire; nor has it
proposed any uther principle tending to the fame
erfd. Ihe U'iderfigned, is therefore; ordered 10
refutiie this fiJbjeit, and to demand oil this head an
open declaration, in order to diorten the delay,
which must otherwise result from the difficulties
raised by the Dire£iory with refpedl to the form of
his power*. He is authorized to add td'this de
mand the express deciaratioh, that whilst his ma
jesty (hall n®<juai;it his augult allies with all his fuc
cefEve Heps relative to the object of this present ne
gociation, and fulfil towards those fovere'igns in the
most efficacious manner every duty of a good and i
faithful ally, he will at the fame time neglect' no
thing on hi* parr, both to difpofs them to concur'
in this negeciation, by all such means as are Bloll'
fitted to accelerate it# progress and ensure its suc
cess, and to preserve them in dispositions favorable
to his wifli for the return of a general peace, oil ju®,
permanent audi honorable conditions*
(Signed)
" MALMESBU&.Y." ,
Paris, Nov. 12, 1796.
To the above note the French miailter for fo
reign affairs, Delacroix, returned the following an.
fwer-^-
Anfwcr of the for the department of fo
rcgn affairs to the note of lord Maltnrfbury.
" The uaderfjgned is charged by the Executive
Direilory to call on you to point out as speedily as
possible, & ncminatively the fubjefts of reciprocal
compenfatiens which you have to fropofe.
" He is decidedly charged to ask of you what
are the dispositions to treat 011 a Juit and equitable
bafig of which his majelty the emperor and tic
king furriiftied so conspicuous a at the com
mencement of the present campaign ? The Execut
ive Directory is ignorant of them. It was the
emperor and king by whom the artniftice was
broken. ,
(Signed) "CH. DELACROIX."
Paris, 2id Crumaire.
Philadelphia, * ;
MONDAY EVENING, JANUARY- 16, 1797.
*** We regret that the prefeof foreign >ews corn
pels us still further to poiipooe a variety of ingenious
originil communications.
Mr. Williams and Mr. Van Alen are
members of the Houle of Reprefeniativcs of the U.
States, fiom New-York, by their refpeflive diftri&s,
by great majcirites.
Bxtrafl of a letter from Charleston, S. C. dated 19th
December, to a getitfeman ift this city.
" Major P:»ck M ey, Uie fr»m tho United
States to tVe Court of G. Britain, arrived ycfterday.
" The Appiafi bufmtfs, er pvojeeleil reforjn in the
ftatt; representation, failed ia the House of Reprefen
tatiyes by ten votes."
£*tra<3 of a Tetter from a merchant in Baltimore, dated
12th January, 1797.
" In answer to your enquiry relasive to insurance, I
have to iaform you, that in'conlequence of the unfa
vorable afpea of trade, the offices have for the present
decliaed bufiue'fs."
By the ship Alexander Hamilton, arrived at N»w-'
Ysrk, We have received Liverpool papers to the 19th
Nov.
' London papers have been received to 17th of Nov.
inoluf.ve—which contain information 61 the arrival of
Richery's Squadron at Rochfort on v the 3d No»em-
Let—that the French had taken pofleffion of Baf
tia and St. Ftorenza in Corflca, and made upwards
of 900 of the English prisoners. A Sortie was made
from Mamuaon 16 Ofl.—which was unfuccefsful 250
being taken prisoners by the French.—Six Carriages
with Pictures from Ifaly arrived at Faris Nov. 12.
without being the least 'damaged ofi the road.
Buonaparte in a letter dated Verona Oft. 29 in
forms the Directory, that Warmfer is reduced to the
utmoll extremity in Mantua, rliat 'he is in wai>t of
wine and forage, that the.garrison is for/ed to feed on
horses, and that there are ijooo sick.
The Spanish fleet cruizing, before Tpulori consists of
16 fail of the line, S of which are three deckers ; 3 of
So guns and the reft 74's, besides 13 frigates a corvette
and a brig.
Serious apprehensions ape2T to be entertained in
England of infurreAions in Ireland.
- The Columbus,- Vaneck, for Philadelphia, is ad
-1 vertifed in a Liverpool paper of November 19, to fail
by tbe last of November, and the (hip Hannah, Weft,
for Bolloh, on the 15th.
New-York, January 14.
Ship Ganje*, Miller, from this port, and.Federalist, •
Pratt, and H"j>e, Long, fronn Charlelton, paiTed bv
Gravefend Bth November.
Froip the Log-book of the Ship Alexander Hamilton,
Capt. from Liverpool.
The ship Kelanna of New York, John Pollard, Mas
ter, from Surinam, bouiid to the Island of Guernsey
and London, was captured by the ihip Diana, Capt.
Pine*, of Liverpool, a Guinaman, mouoting za guns,
inlatt. 41, 16, N. and long. 38. W. the master and
•five of the cretf were taken on board the Diana, and
a Prizc-mafter and crew put on board the Rofanna and
ordered for Falmouth". (
The (liip Alexander Hamilton, of and from Phila- -
delphia, failed from Liverpool Nov 19th.
'1 he Hamburgh Packel from Philadelphia has arriv
ed at Liverpool.
The Hope of Frederickfburgh, Capt. Callahan, which '
had been copper'd -at Liverpool was to fail from '
thence Nov. 13d, for Madeira and the Cape of Good '
Hope. ,
The Ihip Prefidenr, Capt, Boyihgton, for New-York, :
was fxpefltd ti> fail from Liverpool about the lalt of
Novembtf. f
From the Aurora.
Commodore barnet.
A great outcry has been'raifed by the British party a
gainst Commodore Harney, and manv lies are circula
ted to attempt injuring hlrnjin the eyes of Araericans.—
Let his cause be examined. Capt* Barney pursuing a
/lawful trade, as an American citizen, loft almeft his
s!l by the robberies ef the'TVitifh. Not finding retire si
for the injuri s he had I'uffered, or reftuution of hid
property, thro* the governmenUof.his country, he lie
terriiined iipoti depending oil hit individual exertions for
indemnification.—He left America, threw up his alle
giance to the country, ?*hich was unwilling dj* -j liable
ble to afF>rd Hiiri Corresponding proteiliori, and became
a citizen oUFrince. In the service of that Republic he
has repaid hi* lotfes atid retaliated lipon his
That he had a right to leave this country- and become
a citizen of France, no one who does not contend for
the Britilk rna;,im of perpetudl allegianc# and agaiilit
the principle ellablilhed by our Judicial Tribunals can
deny; and no one who had,irretriveably loft his all,
' and all hopes of obtaining raftitntir»' thrb' the govern
| °f his country, cad blame him for taking that
Capt. Barney having become a citizen of France;
and being in the fervicc of that Republic, it is his du
ty to obey their orders, arid if,' from the pusillanimity
or bad taith of our Executive, those orders ire likely to
bear heavily upon our commerce, let our merchant*
; the government/and the government aflumi
a line of canduft more Coufonant to our duties as a
neutral nation (for neutral nations bave duties as well
as rights) and repair the breach which their crooked
policy Has made between the fitter Republics.
Befidcs thi vague abuse poiired forth, bytfct BritllW
| faction against Commodore Barney, he has been fpe
eifieally aceufed of lioifting the American Sag rever.
fed, and of treating Amefican Captains at Cape Fran
cois' with unwarrantable severity.
The fails on which theft charges are grounded, we
are well informed, are these. The colors and sig
nals on board the Mcdufa had by some means got wet
op damp, and were ordered to be hoisted jwomif
cuouflytodry. In doing this the American-Sag wa»
unintentionally rever fed, but aa soon a Capt. Baraey
was informed of it the error rectified.
1 he ftcorid charge is founded on this eifcufnftSnce.
Commodore Barney while at the Cape wai commas*-
der of the port; information was received, that seve
ral English prisoners who had effei9ed their
' werefecreted on board neutral vessels. A search wa»
made and several were found concealed on board an A
-1 merican the captain of which, Commodore Bar
ney, in obedience to his duty, was obliged to confine
, in prison for afe*' days.
As to the orders of which he is the bearer, to carry
into port all American vessels bound to or from Britifli
ports, our complaints on account of them, should be
directly agaiaft tlie French government, and if Com
modore Barney executes them without any circum
fiance of aggravation, he does but his duty as a French.
( citizen and of&ctr. We believe, that on his pafTage
here he did_riat put them in force, and the notice our
Merchants now receive, that such are hts orders, ought
rather to be a caufeof th'inkfulnefs than otherwise, as
they are now on their guard, and need not adventure
their property by fending it to Englilh ports.
...'' " .1 .
A Pointer found;
person having loft a small POINTER PtJP
PY about a fortnight since, may have him again by
' proving property and paying charges. Apply to th«
Printer.
JanUary to , 3
WM. HAT DON,
Drawing-Master, from London*
Where he has studied several yeafs under one ot
; the ntott eminent masters in that science, aitenla
young Ladies and Gentleiien at their refpeflivehemO.
His tertesarr 6 dollars per month for attendance three
| times per week. Likewise alt kinds'of ornamental'
i Painting, Flowers, Fruit, Sc. taught ou the abovfc
terms. A firte directed to W. H. left with the Jditot
of this Gazette, will be immediately attended to.
> January 13'. eoa#
■ —•« ■ \ i- 1
Wanted on hire,
A Cook, male or female—alfo a man servant to ail
tend in a privati family and perform the duties be
longing to the dining room. None need apply who
do not underiHnd and have riot been acctf domed to thef
refpeftive fervicesand who are not well recoiflmendei
for honesty and goid behavior.
Apply at No. 182, Mulberry-street, or to the
January t. . tawaw
Noticc.
THE Advertife'r is a person regularly bred, and has'
carried on in an cxten(ive manner for these 30 vear*
past, the various branches of Goldsmiths' and Jew
ellery, plated and hard-ware Cutlery, and Ironmonge
ry bufiricfa, and has general knowledge of the Dry
Good and many other buGneffes. He has a particular
taste for building, has built txtenfively for himfelf,'
has conduced buildings for others, aad is of opinion'
that' his iervices to any gentleman that be im"
went of a person tocoriduCtany of the a fore fa id . busi
nesses, would not onlj be ufeful but an acqnifition, as
he will engage on liberal terms, either as a salesman
or to fell on commifiion as an agent, a<£l as a partner ot
take the care of a manufaaoVy, or superintend build
ing, &c. He is a married man, and having no family
but lus wife who would aft as a falefwomah or houle
keeper. No obje&ion to any part of the Southern
states, or tq take a voyige to Europe ae a fupereargo.
Aline direifted to J. C. to the care of the printer,
wilibe punctually attended to.
N. B. He is well acquainted with 310 ft df the Eng
li(h, Irish, and Scotch manufactories, as he catried on
business for ten years in London, but On account of
unavoidable misfortunes in his country, lie is now for
ced to leek for a' living for hitrtfelf and wife in thk
■ way, and he flatters himfelf that he wiH give entire
fstisfaftiO'n to bits employer. And as he is well Known
in this city, and to the moll refpe<sVable characters oA
the continent, doubts not but his character, morality'
and indefatigable industry, will bear the ftn&eft en
quiry ** •.
I>ec. 18. lawtf
FOR SALE,
A very Valuable Eftatd,
CALLED T IV IT T E NUA M, situate in tho
towrdhip of Upper Derby, andoodntyof Delawar*,
7 1-2 miles from PhiiadclpHia, and hats a mile from the
new Wejtcrn roid -containing a 3O sores of oxceUent land,
45 of which are good watered meadow, 90 of prime wood
land, and the reft arable of tSe Srft quality. There are
tfn rfie. jreniifcs a good twe Ilory brick koufe, witk 4 roaai#
oh a floor, and cellars under tkewkole, witk a pnmp-w JT
of excellent water in front; a large frame barn, ftabl«t<
and other convenient buildings; a fmoke-hoiife and ftoae,
spring-house j two good apple orchards, and o»e Of peaeh
»%. The fields are all in clover, eicept those immediately
under,tillage, and are so laid oat as to kave the advantage
of. water in each of them, whick renders it peculiarly-coa-'
venient for grazing.
The Gtuation it pleafcnt Mid healthy, and from the high
eultivation of the land, the"ood neighbourhood, ar.d tbi,
-vicinity to the city., it i 6 very fuitabie for a geotlemaa'f 1,
country feat. v
"the foregoieg it part of the estate of Jacob Hartmaav 1 .
and offered for sale by
Mordecai Lewis, .
O&r ji. law .Surviving Exccwwr'.Elegant Bruffcls k Turkey Carpeting,
For sale by George Dobfon, No. 45,SouthThird-ftreet.
December IJ. dtf
Clocks and Watches.
LESLIE and PRICE,
A T o. .79, Market-street, Philadelphia,
HAVE IMPORTED, by the late arrivals from
London, a latge aflortment »f WARRANTED
WATCHES, eenfiftiiig of horizontal, capp'd and
Gold Watches, with fecosds, of ftiperior
workmanship and elegance ; alfe capp'd and jewel'd
and plain Gold Watches ; capp'd & jewtll'd. capp'd,
seconds, day of tXf month, and plain Silver Watches ;
eight day & chamber Clocks; elegant French Clocks
with marble frames ; eight day and thirty hour, brass
works, See.
Deeembef aa, t 62m
Paterion Lottery. ,
FOR raising fix thousand fix hundred and fixty-fcven
dollars and fifty cents, by a deduction of fifteen per
cent from the prizes, and not two blank* to a priza. viz
I Pr«e of 5000 dollars is dollars 5000
I 1000 TOOO
i 500 s©o
3 too • iocs
10 100 2000
99 jo 4950
100 jooo
1060 1® 10,000
5 Last drawn numbers of woo dollars each, 5000
433 a Prizes. <4,450
4CIB Blanks.
6350 Tickets at Sev«n Dollars each, 44,450
By order of the Directors of the Bo®iety for establish
ing Ufcful Manufactures, the fuperkitendauts of the Pat
erfon Lottery have requested the Managers to offer the
foregoing Scheme to the public, and have directed them
to refund the money to those persons who have pur chafed
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
n this Lottery.
The-iottery has actually commenced drawing, and will
continue until finifhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
may be seep at the office ol William Blackburn, No. 64
south Second street, who will give information where tick
ets may be procured.
Dated this 17th day of June, 1796.
J. N- GUMMING,
JACOB R. HARDENBERG, 5- Managers.
JONATHAN RHEA, >
STATE OF THE WHEEL.
1 Prize of 5000 - * - 5000
1 1000 - - - 1000
I ■ 500 ... 500
5 400 . - - 1000
jo ico - - - aOOO
90 50 4500
165 i S ... . 41%s
The five last drawn tickets, 1000 each, . 5000
Being all the valuable prizes, besides a full propor
tion of the 10 dollars.
As the Lottery is considerably more than one third
drawn, the value of the undrawn tickets i« great
ly increased, and it it worth the notice of those
who hold tickets in thd old scheme, that they can ex
ehangeroieir tickets for thole in the above, if they ap
ly soon, and at a moderate advancc cdnfidering the
now real value of an undrawn ticket.
The tickets being nearly all fold, the drawing in
future will.be oftener, and the Lottery soon finifhed.
November 12. mws
City of Washington.
SCHEME of the LOTERY, No. 11,
FOR -THE IMPROVEMENT 0 t THE ,
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent \ ao,ooo dollars, & )
dwelling-house, 3 caih 30,000, are 5 ■ sD,oo< ®
1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 40,000
I ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 16,000 & cash 10,000 ao,soo
I ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
I ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
I cash prize of io,ood
a do. 5,000 each, are « 10, coo
10 do. l,eoo - - 10,000
ao do. 500 - - ie,ooo
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
»oo do. 50 - 10,000
400 do. 15 - 10,000
1,000 ckr. to - 10,000
15,000 do. 10 « 150,00b
*6,739 Prizes.
jj.,a6i Blanks.
I 50,060 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. Tofavour those who may take a quantity of
Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars willbethe last drawn
ticket, and the 30,000tha last but one :
And approved notes, securing payitient in either mon«y
or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be received for
any number not less than 30 tickets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of the pri
vate buildings to be ereited in the Oity of Wafhingtonr--
Two beautiful designs are already feledted for the entire,
fronts on. two of the public fquaresj from these prawings
it ispropofed toeredt two centreand four corner buildings,
as soon as poflible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery.
A nett deduiStion of five par cent, will be made to defray
the necessary expenses of printing, &c«<und the surplus
will be made a part of the fund intended for the National
University, to be erected within the city of Washington.
The Drawing Will commence as soon as the tickets are
old off.—The money prizes will be payable in thirty days
after it is finifhed ; and any prizes for which fortunate
immbers ate not produced within twelve months after the
drawing is closed, are to be con&dered as given towards
the fund for the University ; it being determined to fettle
the whole bufinefis in a year from the e-,ding of the draw
ing, and to take up the bonds given as security.
The real securities given for the payment of the Prizes,
are held by the President and two Directors of the Bank
«f Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
mount of the lottery.
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of
the late Commissioners affifled in the management of the
Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake this afduous task
second time on behalf «f the public ; a fufficient num
:r of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
riends to a NatSjnal University and the other federal ob
je<sts may continue to favor the design.
By accounts received from the different parts of the
Contineut as well as from Europe, where the tickets
have been sent for sale, the public are alfured that the
drawing will speedily commenee, and that the tare and
caution unavoidably necessary to injure a fafe disposal of
the tickets, has rendered the iliort suspension indispensable.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
»§, Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; of
James Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter Gilman, Boston :
•f John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells
©coper's Ferry. ,«
DANCING SCHOOL.
I
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL will open hlsfchool on Mon
day the 31ft inft. at ten o'clock in the morning, at his
Elegant hezu Ball Rooms,
In Fourth, between Chcfnut and Walnut Streets.
Hours of tuition for young ladies, from 10 to 1 o'clock
on Mondays, Wednesday, and Friday mornings; and for
young gentlemen from '6 tp 9 o'clock ©n the evenings o
die fame days.
in addition to a number of new cotlllioas, he means to
introduce a variety of Scotch Reels.
Note. The fir ft pra&ifing ball to be on Tuesday e
vening, the firft of November, and to be continued every
Tuesday, during the season.
For terms,' See, enquire at his house, Ne.134, Market
ftreet. %
' «hf
Bank of North-America,
January 1, 1797-
At a meeting of the Directors this day, a Dividend ot
Six per Cent, was declared for the lall hull' year, which
will be paid to the Stockholders or their representatives,
at any time after the ioth instant.
By order of the Board.
dtx6th JOHN NIXON, President.
CAUTION. ,
\ WHEREAS very Urge and heavy dehts are justly
due and owioe from mefirs. Blair M'Clenachan arid
Patrick Metre, of the city of Philadelphia,- merchants,
trading under the firm of Blair M'Clenachan and P.
Moore, ,and from Blair M'Clenachan in. his separate
capacity ; to which, by the laws of the land, all the
joint a. well as separate property of the said Gentle
men, is, ind ought to be, liable. And whereas
it i« clearly and fatisfa&orily ascertained, that mr.
Blair M'Clenachan, of the said firm, has conveyed
away to mr. "John H. Uvjlon, his fon-i* law, to his
daughter, raifs M'Clenachan, and to his foil, George
M'Clenachan, several large and valuable real estates,
as well *• eonfidcrable personal property, in the city
and county of Philadelphia, in the county of Lancas
ter, in the county of New-Castle on Delaware, and
elsewhere, with a view, as it is apprehended, to de
feat the Creditors in the recovery of their jull debts, —
This s, therefore, to forewarn all persons whomso
ever, agaiaft the purchafe'from the said grantees, or
either «f them, of any portion of the said real or per
sonal property, as the moll vigorous measures will
withaut delay be taken to render the fame liable to
the just demands of the Creditors.
By order of the Creditors.
Thomas Fitzjimons,
Philip Nicklin, I
Isaac t'harton, / Committee.
tViiliam M'Murtrie, 1
I S<*!>uelW. Fiflter, -J
Philadelphia, DeEeraber 17th, 1796. 10th.}
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE eaation introduced into the public prints,
warning all perfonr, againlt pur' hafwjj from the
grantees of Blair M'Clenachan, any portion of the
large, real and perianal estates he conveyed away to
his fon-io law and to his ehildren was the result of
a deliberation had up©» the fubjed\ by a general and
numerous meeting of the creditors as well of Blair
M'Clenachan and P. Moore as of Blair M'Clena
chan individually. It was no more than an execu
tion of that trust confided in the subscribers by
those creditors: a step which it would have been a
breach of duty and honor in them to have omitted.
The very fiateraent of the fa£i therefore mull dis
pel the imputation that it was either " precipitate
or visdiftive." It originated in a defiie to feoure
the property of the debtor as a fund for the pay
ment of his just debts. It was fan&ioned by the
advice ofco»neil as a measure ncccjfary to the fafety
of the creditors. If the advertisement hat been
injurious to Mr. M'Clenachan he owes that injury
to his own unjiiltiliable conduct, not to the iub
fciibers who have merely puUiftisd the truth in
terms as mild as the fafit would admit, and who
mean to investigate in a high court of justice the
validity of those purchases of which Mr. M'Cle
nachan so confidently fpcaks.
The subscribers therefore are bound by a sense
of duty to the areditors in general to repeat their
camion against purohafing of those grantees or
eitfier of them, and to extend the terms of it to a
porchafe from any other persons (if such there bej
whom Mr. M'Clenachan may have made similar
conveyances.
(Signed) T. FITZSIMONS,
P. NICKLIN,
ISAAC WHARTON,
WILLIAM M'MURTRIE,
SAMUEL W. FISHER.
Philad. Dec. ai, 1796.
Those printers who have been requested to
publish the firft Caution, are deGred t publifti this
also.
Washington Canal Lottery,
NO. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorised
the underwritten, to rajfe twenty-fix thousand
two hundred, and fifty dollar., for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Washington, fro:«i th Po
tomacto theEaftern Branch Haruour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Vie -I Prize of act,ooo dollars, so,oqo
I ditto 10,000 10,000
7 lad drawn 7 ,
Tickets, each )
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,000
10 ditto 100 »,000
55 ditto jo »,750
5750 ditto l» 69,008
To be raised for the Canal, 16,45©
58JO Prizes, 175,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prise.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,090
The Commiflioners hav» taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid aft for the puniluil payment ol
the prizes.
The drawing sf this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon as thf Tickets are fold, of which timely'
notice will he given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after the
drawing is finifhed, shall be considered as relinquifbed for
the benefit «f the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed J NOTLET YOUNG,
DANJEL CARROLL, o/D
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
' GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
Cit of Wafhkijton, Feb. 11. $'
For Sale,
By the Subfcribers—ln PENN-STREET,
65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
•Imported by the Eagle.
WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
Nov. 30 w&f
Le Breton,
SURGEON-DENTIST-,
Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Dentist to the
King a:jd Royal Family of France, member of tlie
College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris,
Keeps a complete affortm-nt of every thing neeefary
to be uftd for^the
Preservation of the Mouth and Teeth.
Patent Minoral Teeth, and Human & Ivory Teeth ;
Dentrifice is powder; Opiate ; excellent Elixir for
sweetening the mouth and preserving the teeth —he
also furnilhes Brushes and foft Spinges.
*x* tje lives in Chefisut-ftrecJ, No. 135, abeve
Fourth-flreet.
November 26. tts
Twenty Guineas Reward.
RAN AW AY from the fubferiber €>n the 43 d O&obor,
a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSES ; ax years
old; about 5 feet 8 inches high ; had on a misted grften
coat, with'a green velvet cape and oval yellow buttons;
a striped vest ; a pair of dark spotted pantaloons, and
whole boots much wcrn. It is prqbable he may change
.his name and dress. He has been accuflomed to driving
a carriage, and waiting - . The above reward will be
paid for fccuring him so that the fubferiber may get him
again, and if brought home ail reasonable charges paid by
Robins Chamberlains.
Maryland, Nov. 10. 14
Horses taken in,
For the Winter Season,
And fed on clover hay at the Subscribers place, 12
ttiifcs on the Bristol Road, where good stabling 13 pro
vided, and great care will bs taken of them
William Bell.
Nov. 23. mwfawmthtf.
Samuel Richardet
13 ESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in the
city of Philadelyhia: '
The Subscription Room will be furnilhed with all the
daily papers publiQted in New-York, Bos
ton, Baltimore, togother with thole of the principal com
mercial citica of Europe—They will be r«gularly filed
and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jelliesj Ice Creams, and a variety
of French Liquors; together with the usual refreflrmems,
will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodatcd with
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the mod
approved Malt Liquors froir.London and other breweries.
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and earliest
productions of the Scafon.
Large and Parties, ov (ingle Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hours most convtnieik to themselves—a cold Collation is
regularly kept for conveniency, the Billof Fare to be had
at thft bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnilhed, and
tbe utmost attention paid to deanlitiefs, and every other
requisite.
£jp S\muel Richardet will be happy to receive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfeK that nothing on his part fhali be wanting to pre
fervc that patronage with which he has been so diflinguiih
ingiy honored.
- Philadelphia, April 19. mwf
A Manufactory FOR SALE.
A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufactory, foliate
in a convenient part of the city ; the works aloioft new,
on an entirely original conftcu&ion, and built of the best
materials, and may be set to work immediately. Persons
whowifhto purchase, are requefied to apply at No 273,
South Second Street. > September 13. t t f tf
SWAN N'S
Riding Schooltiorfc Academy & Infirmary 9
* Adjoining the Public Square. Market Sueet.
T. SWANN
RETURNS hil sincere thanks to those gentlemen by whom
he has been employed, during his refidencc in this |Cky, and
flattershimfelf that the success of his effoils, ju the numerous,
ob(\inaie and dangerous dtfealcs iu Horses, in which he
been consulted, with his moderate charges, will fe
ure their future favors and recommendation.
He now begs leave to inlorm them and the public at large
that hisfpacious and commodious preiniles, ere&ed for
purposes above deferibed are opca for the reception of pupils
of either lex, who wifhto be inflated in the Art of Riding*
and the right method of governing their hoffes, so as to ride
taem with ease, eicgance, and horse* will be
carefully and expeditioully broke, for every purpose, and
made obedient tot he will of the riders ; the natural powers
which arc shut up in them, will be unfolded by art, calling
forth uniformity of motion, and giving to that noble animal
all those beauties of action which providence has to bounti
fully bellowed on them.
Also, at hishofpital, every disorder to which -the horse is
liable will be treated according to the rule* of art, confirmed
by l®ng and repeated experience.
The utility of the above inlfitution has never been qneftion<
ed, that it has long been wanted in this city, gentlejman's
stud willmanifoft, and T. Swann as the still eftahUfher of
the vet#renary art, folicits'a»d relies upon tbe fuppoit of that
public (which he is ever anxious in serving), to enable him to
biingit to perfe&ion. The idea of a fubtenptiou for bhat
purpose Ut>\> beeu hinted by several gentlenuo, who wifti to
promote the institution—the amount of eacn fubfcriptioD to
be returned by ferviees in any of the depdrtmeuts.he profefifes,
agreeable to the rate of charges (fated in his hand bill. Such
Ajbfcription is now open, and the Signatures of many refpeft
able gentlemen already He therdore injorms his
friends and such Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has not
the honor of being known, that he shall in a fevV days take'
thelibertyof waiting upon them and folicking their fuppou
and protfftion.
N B. Hprfes are properly prepared for those Ladies and
Gentlemen who wish to be inftru&cd*
Nov,. 5. tth&f.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED, '
A new method of keeping Bill Books,
Adapted for the ease and convenience of merchants
in general ; but particularly for those who ; arc ex
tensively concerned in trade: exhibiting at one
view, all the bills which a merchant may have to
receive or p»y> in the course of the whole yea?,
for each month feparatively.. And thereby pre
venting the trouble and inconvenience attendant on
the mode now in use, of f*le&ing the bills due in
sach month from the prormilcuous entries of several
raonthi.
To which is prefixed,
A t able shewing the number of days from any day
aiiy rconth, to the fame day in any other month.
Philadelphia, printed for and fold by R. CAMP
BILL & Co.
Jatiuary a. tawtf
Treasury Department,
September 28, 1796.
VTOTIOE is hereby given, that prqpofals will be rc~
XN ceived at the office of the Secretary of the Tr«aftay
until the expiration o1 the firfl day Of March next en
siling, for the supply of all rations which may he required
for the use of the United States, from the firft day of
June, 1797, to the thirty-firil day of May, 1798, both
days inclusive, at the pkaes and within the diftri&s hcte
after mentioned, via. At Ofwegp; at Niagara ; at
Pjefqu* lfle; at Sandulky Lake, and on SandufVy
River ; at t)etroit; at Michilimackinac; at Forf-Frank
lin; at Pittsburgh; at Cincinnati; at Fort-rianaikon ;
at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-Jefferfon; at Grenville; at
Picqae Town and Loramies Store; at Fort Adams; at
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance; at any place below Fort
Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Eric; at Fort
Steuben ; at FortMaffac ; at any place from Fort Mafltc
to the south boundary oi the United States on the river
Miffifippi; at Fort Krvox ; at Ouiatanou.
If supplies Ihall be required for any posts or places not
mentioned M this notice, all such fnpplies &all be fur
nifhed at prices proportioned to thoie to be paid at the
polls before recked, or as may be hereafter agreed cm
between the United States and the Contra&or.
The rations to he fspplied are to consist qJI the fol
lowing articlet, viz.
One pourvsl two ounc«« of bread #r flour. -
One pound two ouiicae of beef, or fourteen ounces of
pork or bacon.
Half a gill of rum, brandy or whilkey.
One quart and half a pint of
Two quarts ©f Vinegar, ( , . .
Two pound, of Soap, ( P er hundrc,i rat *""
One pound of Candles, J
The rations are to be furni&od in fsch quantities, as that
Stierc ftiall at all times during the said term, be fullioient
for the cinfv.mprion of the troops at Michilimackinac, Do
troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, fer the term of fix month* in
advance, and at each of the other posts, for the term of
at kail three months in advance, in good an d wholefoir.e
piovifions, if the fame Hull be required. It is tq be unj
defllood, that the Contrafiot is to beat rheexj»ence and
rife of iffuirg the fupp!i»\i to the troops at each post, and
that all losses fullained by the depredations of an enemy, or
by means of the troops of the United States, (hail be paid
far at the price of the articles captured or destroyed, oa
the depositions of two or more perfonsof creditable chi--
ra&ers, and the certificate of a eommillioncd officer, as
certaining the ©irctimflancas of the loft, and the amount
of the ai ticks for which aompenfanon {hall be claimed
OLIVER. WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
; " ■ -r ■ ■' >
By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lattery.
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64.
South Setond-Jlreet.,
SCHEME of 7 LOTTERY,
For railing Sixty Thousand Dollars, agre< ably to an Aft Of
the Legislature of Pennfylvaaia, palled d&iing the lail
felfion, for building a Stone Bridge over the River
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, in the County of
Berk". Dollars.
1 I'riie of ao.ooo Dollars - »o,oco
» do. of tc,ooo do. . . 10,000
3 do. of 5,000 do. ... 15,000
4 do. of a.ooo do. . . 8,000
ao do. of 1,000 do. J . - »o,oofc
30 do. of 500 do. . . 19,508
80 do, of aoo do. . . . 16,00®
too do. of 100 do. - . „ ao,oo»
300 do. of Jo do. . 15,00®
1 do. •of 400 do. to be paid the po-Tef- )
for of the firft drawn no. J
5 do, of '|,«oo do. to be paid polfcffors /
of the five lali drawn nos 5 1 '' 1 0
i 9,400 do. o 15 do. : . 14 1,000
10,054 Prixes 300,000
10*046 Planks .
30,000 Tickets at Ten Dollars 300,0c®
AH Prizes fball be paid fifteen days after the drawing is
finilhed, upon the demand of a pofleflor of a fortunate
picket, fubtfft to a dedu&ion of twenty per cent. The
Drawing will commence as Toon as the Tickets are disposed
01, or perhaps foonet. of which public notice will be given,
Philip Miller, Peter Kerjlner, William lVitman }
1 Joseph Hiejler, James Diemer, Thomas Dundas,
! James Maj, John Otto, John Kcim, Daniel Craejf,
Selajlian Miller, Commissioners.
Reading, May 1796. 1
Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. a, to be had at the
above office, where the earlfeft inlormation of the draw
ing of the Walhington No. a, and Patterfon Lottery's,
are received, and checkbooks for examination and rcgif.
teringarc kept.
O Sober 7- t aawtf
Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE.
No. 63 South Third ftr.et, opposite the nationalnew Banlt»
SAMUEL M.FR.AUNCES and JOHN VAN REED;
have entered into co-partnership, under the firm cf
FR MINCES & VAN REED, in the business of Broker-,
Ceuveyancers and Commrflion merchants. They buy and
fell on commiflion every fpeehs of (lock, notes of hand,
bills of exchange, houses and lands, &c.
ViMoNir procured on deposits, &c. &c. fall kinds cf
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatnefsand
dispatch; accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the
mrolt correfl manner. Constant attendance will be given.
They solicit a (hare ps the public favor ; they ire deter
mined to endeavour to deserve it.
N. B. Tht utmofl secrecy observed.
.SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES,
JOHN VAN REED.
Philad. August 27, 1796. m&wtf
Lottery a'nd Broker's Office^
No. 64, South Second street*
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 2, for sale a
Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
►he late lottery.
Check Books kept for examination and r -jittering-, for
the City of Walhington, No. 2, and Pattcfon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information whore
tickets are to he had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School' Lottery, for
examination.
The subscriber solicits the application of the public
and his friends, who wilt to purchase or fell Bank Stoek,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses,
&c. or to obtain money on deposit of property.
".* Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
sale at Tea Doilnrs each, which will lie drawn early ia
the Spring.
Wm, Blackburn.
Philadelphia, 18, 1796. m tJ,
PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO
—No. 119 —
c hesmxjt-strfet.
(Price fcljkt BolW. per Ajiruoi.l