m Utitteu States,
'Dumber. 1511.]
For New-York,
Little Sally,
James Taylor, Mnjhr,
YJNG at "C licfnut-ftrret. "wharf, \yill l'ailin ,a
few days, and take freight very low. Apply
on board, or to
Joseph Jnthotiy Ss? Co.,
J"'y »*• " djt
For Amsterdam.
>fHE SHIP
Four Friends,
Joseph Glenn, Mailer ;
WILL fail with all convenient
ter part of her cargo being ready. For
freight or.pafTage apply to the captain on board, or
JeJfe & Rob. Wain.
J"iyir. dtf
For Savannah,
J"** ol . The Ship
SWIFT PACKET >
atr ' c k Gribben, Matter,
~^T lyingat Wilcocks' wharf,
ant j w iQ positively fail on
Saturday, 15th inft. She is handsomely accommo
dated for pafiengers, and fails well. Por freight
«r pafTage apply to the master on board, or
N. y. Frcrzier,
No. 95, South Front-ftrect.
WHO~HAVE FOR SALE,
Prime Rice in whole and hdlf
tierces.
I"ly 8. stijth
For Hamburgh,
chaTl or te,
C. F. Danenbcrger, Master.
ILL be ready to receive the cargo in a few
days, and is a faft failing (launch, good ves
sel, wellfeuud—For freight or passage, apply to
George Pennock,
No. 103, Marlet-jlrcct.
. J"iy 7- w_
LANDING,
At Walnut-street wharf, from on boid (hip Man
chcßer, Benj. Shewell, master, from Bourdoaux,
Bourdeaux Brandy-
Old Claret in hhds.
Medoc Wine in cases
Sauterne do. do.
For Sale by
Thomas Murgatroytf,
No. 11, Walnut flreet.
Shid Ship for Freight or Charter,
£ 1 Burthen 180 tons, Philadelphia
built of live Oak and Cedar, will
be ready to fail in a few days.
A Pply as above.
July j. mwf
For Sale,
The fine and remarkably fall
Virginia and Philadelphia
Burthen abouf 100 to'js. For terms apply to
RoJ's iff Sim/on.
Jure 11. , dtf
F6r Sale,
The cargo of the brig Enterprize, Captain
Langdon from Bourdeaux, no<w landing at
' Morton's wharf,
CONSITING OF
524 hhds. of Claret 12^
ai; cases of ditto ' «
100 c.ifes of Sweet Oil
no pipes London proof 7 , <a4NDy . I j S
10 pipes of Holland proof 3 J W no
Apply to
Wharton isf Lewis,
No. 115, South Front St.
Said Brig,
WILL take a FREIGHT for
1 $Y the Weft-Indies or Europe, fails
burthen about fifteen hun
*^*-sS!Sffe®3dred barrels, is in complete or
der, and will be ready to receive a cargo in a
few days
Apply as above.
May 14
The Subscriber
GIVES notice to all to whom he may be indebt
ed, that he intends to embark for Europe in a few
da.ys; and that he will not pay any demands which
/ball not be prefenttd to him prior to his departure.
Wm. SMITH, of South-Carolina.
No. 104, Spruce-flreet.
Philadelphia, Ilth July. t4
The Shareholders
Of the Pennsylvania Population Company,
ARE requested to meet at the Cqmpany's Of
fice, No 53, North Fourth Street, on Saturday
lhe 15th inft. at u 6'clock..
By order of the Board,
SOLOMON MARACHE, Sec'ry.
July 1." si6t.
Bank of North America.
. July 1,1797. _
At a meeting of the Direilbrs this day, a di
vidend of Six Per Cbnt. was declared for the
last half year, whiohw ill bg paid to the Stock
holders or their reprcfejltatives, at any time af
ter the 10th inft-
July i. daw.
George Dobfon,
Not 35 Scpih Third-Street,
HAS imported per ships William Penn, Star,
and Diana, from London,
J:-4 Super London Chintz, elegant patterns,
Ginghams, Muflinetts and Dimities.
I'afhionable Waiftcoating, newest patterns.
Ribbands well assorted, in small trunks.
4-4 5*4 and 6- 4 India and British Book-mus
lins-
Fancy Cloaths and Caflixers.
Th« whole to be disposed of cheap for Cash
or approved Nates of .a Jhort date.
•June 14,'97. d.tf.
PHILADELPHIA: THURSDAY EVENING, JULT 13, t 797 .
LANDING,
AT South-ftrset Wharf, from on board schoon
er Expedition, captain Harding Williams,
from St. Thomas, a Cargo of
.Coffee, Sugar, and Rum.
For Sale hy
( . F. Cop pinker,
No. 22 1, South Front-Jlrcet.
July 10. §iot
Wants Employment,
IN a store, a Man who can be well recommend
ed, writes a good hand, and understands ac
eompts. -Apply at No. 50, North Fifth Street, and
Cferry-allcy. Any reputable place will suit.
July 10. *3t
A Wet Nurse Wanted.
A Healthy Woman with a good breast of
tnilk, may hear of a place by applying at
' the Printing Office of this paper.
July 10. *jt
' » ■'
Health-Office, Philadelphia, Jth June, 1797.
r | 1 1 IE Board Health offer to rent outtlje NHW
JL CITY HOSPITAL, ufunlly called The tVip
ivan.
It maybe occupied as a Tavern, for which there
art; excellent accommodations. 'J he person taking
it mud be cApable and willing to ai!t in the capaci
ty of a Steward; in cafe a contageous disease in
the eity, fti.mld at aily time render it necefTary to
make use of the preoiffcj as a Ho%ital. It cannot
therefore be let for any limited time—and the red
painted frame building is to be reserved. Profofah
in writing will be received at this office, dating
what rent -will be allowed under the Weeding cir-'
cumftances. None need apply without being able
to produce the best recommendations.
JOHN MILLER, J*,.
Chairman of the B»ard of Health.
July 8.
POST-OFFICE.
Philadelphia, 6th July, '97.
THE mail for New Caflle, Cantwcll's ktidgt,
Duck Creek cross toads, Dover, Frederica, Mil
ford, George Town (in the ylace of Clowes) and
Dugfborough, in Delaware ; Trap and Snow
hill, in Maryland ; Horn Town, Accomack C.
H. and Northampton C. H- in Virginia ; n*,ill
he clo/edevery Monday, Wednefday,and, Friday,
at fun fit.' lßt
THE FOLLOWING VALUABLE
Traits of Land,
IN the county of Glynn and state of Georgia,
will be fold by public sale, at eight o'clock
on the evening of Tuesday the 17th day ol June
next, at the Merchants CofTee-Houfe in this ci
ty, unless previously disposed of by private sale.
1 ft. 7000 acres on St. Simons Sound at the
confluence of Frederica and Turtle rivers, ad
joining the commons of the town ofßrunfwick,
originally {ranted to John Howell, and withia
6 nr ilea of the Atlantic ocean.
jd. 45,000 acres on the head waters of a
branch of the great Sattilla, originally gmnted
to Ferdinand O'Neal.
3d. so,oooacres 011 the waters of the fittle
Satilla river, arid of Buffaloe and Alexanders
Creeks ; the great Satilla road paHes through
these loads, which were originally granted to
Ferdinlnd O'Neal.
4th. 30,000 on the great Satilla river,
which are also interfered by a branch of the
little Satilla, and were originally grated ten
Thomas Spalding.
It appears by authentic certificates from
Thomas Davis, furyeyor, and from Major
Hopkins now residing in Ptiiladelpl.it, that the
body of these lands are not thirty miles from
the ocean, ar.d principally within tide water;
that the Alatamaha is navigable for boats and
rafts two hundrad miles above, and for large
veflels within ten miles of them ; that they are
chiefly firft rite pine lands, producing timber
equal in quality to any in the state of Georgia,
poflefling the fame advantages of navigation.
The abovementioned certificates, together with
the patents, drafts, andother papers refpe<sliug
the title, which is complete and unincumbered,
are in the pofleffioo of the fubferibers and may
be seen by applying to Benjamin R. Morgan, at
No. 41 Mulberry Street. The terms of pay
ment will be one third calh, the rtmaihing two
thirds in good negotiable endors'd notes, paya
ble in three and fix months after the sale ; a
conveyance to be made to each purchaser 011 the
payment of that moiety of the notes received
from him which becomes firft due.
THOMAS FITZSIMONS, •
JEREMIAH PARKER,
BENJAMIN R. MORGAN.
Philadelphia, May ji, 1797. eodtf.
C. E. Whitlock,
DENTIST,
RESPECTFULLY informs the Ladies and Gen
tlemen of Philadelphia and its vicinity, that he
continues toperfoTm all operations on the Teeth ;fup
plies the deficiencies of nature with artificial or real
teeth, in all the various modes of fixing —Cleans,
files, regulates, extra&s, and fills decayed teeth with
gold or lead, &c. &c. He waits upon Ladies and
Gentlemen at their houfei, and will be happy to re
ceive their commands by note, at Mrs. Flnch'6, No.
68 north Eighth street, or at his house. next to the
"Black Horse Tavern, on the Frankford road.
Dollars.
Scaling and cleaning
Artificialteeth, with enamel, per tooth, 5
Do. in gold sockets Or screws 7
Natural feethwith ligatures 7
Do. on gold pr ivory locket*, or gold screws 10
Filing and cutfing t away decay—each decay 1
Filling with gold 2
Do. with lead 1
Eotra&ingfto the families who employ him'
as deniift) 1
Do. where not employed »
Tooth powder of his own preparing 1
Brulhes, bed London manufacture 25 cents.
Regulating, See. accord ing to the operation.
* # * C. WriitLdtn will fell the time of a Negro
Man ; —he is honest and fobef, and has about 5 years
and a half to serve. Enquire as above.
June 15 >
1 • ' ■ ■ ■
Received by the Indoftan,
From Madras,
A |SMALL invoice confiftinj; ox*the following
XX Coail Goods, viz.
Blue Cloths
Long Cloths, 14 punjums
Do. do. firie
Madras* Handitrchiffs, aad
Book Muslins
WILLING y FRANCIS.
March 27. 3aw
By John Fenno,
New Hat and Hosiery Store.
Jnfl
In thejhifn William Penn anil Star, from London, and
not'.- ogfixUfgby.
WILLIAM M'DOUG ALL,
AT his new Hat and Hosiery Story, No.' 134,
Market street
An elegant afibrcment 6i silk, cotton and thread
Stockings
Silk, cotrouanii thread Gloves
Pantaloons, &c. &c. '
Lifeewife, a handfonit afl'ortmenfrof men's, wo
mqn's, and children's falhionable Hats, luitablcfor
the Season.
A considerable quantity of lo\y and middle priced
Hat s assorted in cases, intended for country stares
Ma >- n-_ u w
The Commiffionier§
carrying into effe& the Cxth article of the
-L treitj of amity, commerce and navigation, con
cluded between hisßritannic majesty and the United
States of America, en the 19th day of November,
1794» having this day constituted their Board,
pursuant and agreeably to the said treaty, do here
by give notice, that they are ready to proceed to
business accordingly; and they desire that all claim*
under the said article (which so far asthe fame de
scribes the cases thereby provided for, is hereunto
annexed) may be lodged with their Secretary with
out delay.
1 hey iurther- defirethat all such claims may npt
only Itate in what maiiLcr the fcyerai cases come
within the description of the said ?rtide, but also
specially fct forth v.he nature of the evidence by
which the claimants refpe&ivcly undertake t®fub
ftantiate the fame.
Extra# from the said article,
" Whereas it is by divers Britilh raer
u chants, and others his majefty'a fubje&s, that !
" debts to a confide rable amount, which were bona
" qontra&ed, before the peace, still remain
" owing to them by citizen* or inhabitants, of the
United State* ; and that by the operatidp of va
" rious lawful impediments, since the peace, not
44 oi\ly the full rdebvery of the said debts has been
" delayed, but also the value and security thereof
" Have been in several inftanccs impaired and less
" ened, so that by the ordinary course of judicial
" proceedings, the Britilh creditor* cannot now
44 obtain and actually have and receive full and
44 ade<jua*e compensation for the lofles and dam;i
---" ges which tney have thereby fufiained; It is a
-4k greed that in all such cases where full compenfo- ]
" tion for such lofles and damages cannot for what- |
44 ever reason be a&ujlly obtained, had and recej- ,
44 ved by the said creditors in the ©rdinapy courfo ,
44 of justice, the United States will make full and
44 complete compensation for the fame to the said (
44 creditors : but it is diftin&ly understood, that
44 this provision is to extend to such lofles only as J
44 h?ve been occasioned by the lawful impediments j
44 aforefaid, aud is not to extend to lofles occasion- j
44 ed by such insolvency of the debtors or other <
" causes, as would equally have operated to pro- ,
" duce such loss, if the said impediments had not ,
44 existed ; nor to such lofles or damages as have j
•• been occasioned by the manifeft delay, or negli- (
'• fcciicc, or wilful omiflion of the claimant.*'
By order of the Board,
GRIFFITH EVANS,
Secretary.
Philadelphia, Commiflioners* Office,
No. 3 south Sixth-street,' May 29, (
'797- J 6--§fm ,
r HE SUBSCRIBER having I fen appointed by
f the Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Pleni
potentiary of his Britannic Majesty, General Agent
loraflifting British creditors, and such particular a
gents as they may specially authorize, in protecuUQg
their claims before the c«ramiflioifer« for carrying in- <
ro effed the fixlh article of the Treaty of Amity, Co«-
merce and Navigation between his Britannic Afajefly and
the United States of America, hereby £tves nocice that J
he has opened his office at his house the south eafl -
corner of Chefnut and fifth streets, Philadelphia, (
where he is ready to receive all claims or in&iuftions
for claims with the vouchers aud documents thereof,
lor the purpoie of bringing forward the fame agree*,
ably so the rules aud orders which the boatd may
think proper to prescribe.
Ana as it will be for the intercft of all concerned,
that the several claims be so Hated, and fupport
cd, as to prevent the delay which would arise from
the ncceflity of obtaining further information, or ad
ditional materials,from persons residing at a distance, r
the general agent thinks it his duty to add, (for the
direction chiefly of those, who, not having employ
ed particular agents, miy leave the prosecution of 1
their claims to his charge and management) that all c
such claims ought in particular to fei forth— t
tft. The proper defeription and fitnation of ihe 1
creditor or claimant, end original debtor, refpeft
ively.
sd. The date andnature of the original contract or
debt.
3d. When, in what manner, and to what exteot,
the creditor or claimant was prevented or impeded,
by the provision, operation or defett of law, the
decisions and praflice of courts, or reftraintof exc- \
cation, from recovering payment of the debt in
question*
4th The loss and damage incurred or fufiained,
in consequence of such impediments, whether the
fame may have arisen from the infolveney, change of
fituatien, or death of the debtor, the loss of legal
remedy from lapse of time, or other causes impairing
the value and security of the debt, which would not
have so operated if such impediments had notexiAcd.
And sth. The particular grounds and reasons on
which the claimant maintains, in the terms of the.
treaty, that " by the ordinary course of judicial pnv
ings, the creditor cannot now obtain and aftuaWy
have and receive full and adequate compensation" fbr
the lofles and damages fofuftaiued.
The general agent thinks it his duty further to fug
gefl that the several claims ought to be accompanied
and supported by the affidavits of the claimants duly
(worn and regularly attested, both as to the exiflence
of the debts claimed, and such other circumstances
as may be within their own knowledge relpc&ively.
And wherever the claimants in Rating the nature of
their evidence (which mult in every instance be the
best of which the cafe is capable) have occasion
refer to the teftftnony of witnefles, it will be proper
to apprise the general agent of the names and places
of refidrnce of such witneflea and the fa£l«to be efta- r
blifhed by their teflimony. k
Wm. Moore Smith. b
Philadelphia, June Bih, 1797. dim
For Sale, n
That <we!lluotun place, calUd F'ji/nsGKlft's
t F R K Y,
ON Nefh'aminy creek, 18 miles from Phi!a- _
ladelphia, on the New York post road,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
prejnifes are a large two itery stone-house occu
pied as a tvern, and a good one story ilone kit
chen, a large frame ftabie with agood threihir.g
floor, and l'ome out buildings—also a well of
gopd water, and an excellent ice ,H9ufe. On
this place is a most elegant situation fora geri'le
inan's feat, commanding a view of tfie Nelharo
iny to jundlion wiih the Delaware, and thence
acro.fs t;o the Jersey (hore. It has the privilege
6f one half the toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the Snfrferiber,
MORDECAI LP.WI3.
S'ay 24- jtawtf.
and PPhiladelphia Daily Advertiser.
, N°-
119 Cbejnut Street.
Philadelphia and Lancajler Turn
d pike Company.
July iQtb. 1797.
AT a meeting of the President and M :nagcrs,a
t.ividena of seven and a half dollars per share
> wa s declared for the last half year, which will be
retained by the Prefideat and Managers £or the
1 purpoics of paying the debts of the a
greeable to arefclution of the Stockholders the 12th
June iait.
TENCH FRANCIS, Treasurer.
. Ext raft from the Minutes of tic Stockholders.
June nth, 1797.
■Aj/iW,
1 hat the fubfeription opened for one hundred
additional (hares of Stock, conformable to a rcfolu
tion of the nth January, 1796, be now cloferl,
and that the stock »f ihe Company consist of
twelve hundred instead of thirteen hundred ffcares.
Wm. GOVETT, Secretary.
J u 'y io- m&wiw I
Rofs & Simfon,
Have for Sale,
A tJUANtITT OF PRIMF.
St. Domingo Corton,
Suptrjor Old Lisbon Wine in Pipes
Excellent India Market
Teneriffe Wine,
In Madeira Calks
A few Quarter Chefis best
Frefli Hylon and )i , 0
Hyson Skin j
Mufi ovado Sugars in Hoglheads, and
Coffee in Tierces
March J• || tf
tVathaniel Lewis & Son,
Have for sale at their Jlore, No. 70, adjoining
George Latimer & Sen, Pinejlreet Wharf,
, A Quantity of
Madeira Wines
In ,pipe» and half pipes
ad<ira Walnuttankl Citron, lately imported
in the schooner Sincerity, Capt. Copia
Also,
>5 Puncheons, fecoird and third proof, IVeCl
lndia R*m, and a few Pipes of Brandy
They have constantly on hand and 'for sale,
French Burr and Country Mill Stones of various
fires, and a general aflortment of Btultiug, Clotbt of
the best quality, both American and Foreign ma
nufaifhire. The former having proved, from se
veral years exptriencr of a number of millers in
different parts of the United States at lead equal,
and in many iaftances superior to the European
Cloths, we hope the manufacturer, Robert Daw
fan, will meet with liberal encouragement in this
important and ufeful undertaking. He has obtain
ed a patent and exclufivc right of making and
vending Boulting Clotbr 011 his improved plan for a
number as years, and they are fold only by him
felf in Lancaster, state of Pennsylvania, and by
the fubferibers in Philadelphia.
June 14 d
LANDING
From on board schooner Daphne, captain
G. W. Morse, from Htfpaniola,
6i,qoa wt. Sugar,
53,000 Coffee
FOR SALE BY
F. COPPINGER,
No. 22J, South Front-ftrcet,
Who has also on hand,
Claret in hhds. and cases
Rice
A quantity of Bristol Bottles
A cafe of Cambrics
Cloth f and Cafiimeres.
July 5. d6t.
A Literary Treat.
Jufl pullijhed, hanafomely printed on writing
paper, price l dollar,
A new edition of that popular and entertaining 1
work, entitled 1
THE FORESTERS, an American Tale ; being 1
a sequel to the hiflory of John Bull, the Clo- '
thier—ln a ftries of letters to a friend, with the ad
dition of two letters, alluding to recent political 1
tranla&ioiu in America. . 1
Th« following extraft from the Glavis Allegoriea, 1
ihews the principal characters that are introduced:
John Bull, the Kingdom of £nglaqd
: H>® Mother, theClurchof England
His Wife, the Parliament
His Sifter Peg, the Church of Scotland '
His Brother Patrick, Ireland
Lewis, the Kingdom of France '
His Mistress, the Old Conllitution '
His n«w Wife, the National Representation"] 1
Lord Strut, the.lCingdom of Spain
Nicholas Frog, the Dutch Republic '
The Franks, the French Republic !
The Foresters, the United States of America I
Robert Lumber, New-Hamplhire
John Codline, '
Humphrey Plow (hare, Connecticut <■
Roger Carrier, Rhode Island 1
Peter Bull Ffegi New-York '
Julius Csefar, New-Jersey <
William Broadbrim, Pennsylvania t
Caflimar, Delawate
Walter Pipewood, Virginia f
His Grandson, George Washington c
Peter Pitch, North Carolina a a
Charles Indigo, South Carolina
George Trusty, Georgia
Ethan Greenwood, Vermont
Hunter Longknife, Kentucky
Black Cattle, Negro Slaves-
Rats, Speculators
Mother Carey's.Chickens, Jacobins k
jfjP This popular and entertaining satirical histo
ry of America is attributed to the Rev. Dr. Bil
knap, It has a great Ihvire of originality and a
bonrtds with genuine humour. It is continued
down to. the present time, and charajlerifes thole
late political traofaftiors which have caused so
much untafinefs in America.
Sold by H. and P. RICE, BookfsKer, No. 16,
South Second Street, and No. 50, Marke' ftjeet.
June 26. . §
FOR SALE,
By Simon Walker,
No. 122, South , Fourth-Street, ]
GOLD and sliver Watches J
Shot, common and patent B
Tin Plates, Sheet Iron ii
Bar and lheet Lead 1
Copper sheets and bottoms 1
Taunton Ale t
Ravens Duck f
Hats in cases
Wool Cards t
Claret Wine ar.-{ Porter Bottles in bunpors. 3
July I. cgrjw
July t
-J NOTICE.
THE holders of certificates of a loan to the ex
iled citizens of the States of Seuth Carolina and
a Cieorgia, under an a<3 of Congjefs 13d Ju'.y, 178),
c are informed, that by lodging the fame witr*
e George Sinjpfon, Caihier of the Bank of the Unit
e e<3 fttates, they will be enabled to receive payment
*' principal &.nd interest, as fooii as the certificates
h can be forwarded to Clurlefton for link-meat, and
orders rrccivedfor their difcharjre.
July 13. 6t
'• FOR SAL.£~"
BRF.TAGNES in cases
German Checks in do.
1 Cambrick
Plattillas
> Oznabrigs
Gold and silver Watches
Window Glass io by 8
Glass Tumblers in cases
Linseed Oil in calks, &c.&c.
George Pen nock,
103, High-Stretf.
J u! 7 5- 3aw
To be Soldj
A large and convenient'
Three Story Brick House;
SITU S TE at the north-eal't corner of Arch and
Fotirt)Wtreets._ It contains eighteen rooms—
and is in every rdpedt well finiihed. For particu
lars enquire of
M. Ktjppele, »
No. 138,
.May 31. '
Millinery Room,
Na. 136 Mnrlict-Jlnet.
MISS CHB.YSTAL
r AKES 'f" e a rl y opportunity of acquainting
X her Priands that flie has received by the
William J&enk, 1 variety of NEW MJL-
LiNERY, &c, which she hopes to be 'able to
lh< w them in a few days.
M *y 18 foot
Town Lots.
A TOWN named BEULA, one mile fquarc,
being laid out on the Blacklick Creek, Som
erset County, Pennsylvania, Lots therein of jS feet
by 125 feet are now felling at tfn dollars each ;
their lituation in the town to be determined by
ballot before the firft of August, and deeds for the
fame will be deliverd by the fubieriber before the
firft of O&ober next.
MORGAN J. RHEES.
No. 177j South Sccond-ftreet, Philadelphia.
The purcJiaferg cf lots in Beula have the following
profpe&s of appreciating their property :
1. It is remote from any other town, and sur
rounded by great bodies of excellent land, capable
of producing every kind of grain and vegetables,
and is without doubt one ef thebeft grazing coun
tries is the United States.
1. In point of health the fituatipn is not exceed
ed by any on the continent;
3. Belides numerous springs and runs, of the fia
eft quality, there is a cre«k for water works (on
which mills are now building) running through the
town,
4 The public road from Philadelphia to Pittf
hurgh will go through it, whick "being more level
and nearer than any other rout, rauft become uni
versally travelled : aided by the navigation of Ju
niata and Conemaugh, goods may be conveyed at
lead a or 3 dollars per cwt. cheaper from the for
mer to the latter place, than by the old road thro 1
Bedford.
5. Ec irg in the centre of a ffourifhing settle
ment, and taking in the shortest portage between
theeaftern and western waters, it is likely to bc
<omea derofit for (lores, a manufa&uringtown,
and a feat of justice. Beside* the old feltlcTs, up
wards oi o;i« hundred emigrants have fettled in the
vicinity of Beula, since last Oilober, and many
more have engaged to join them this summer.
•6. A Land-Qffice for supplying asUal settlers
with farms to a confideraWe amou:.t, and in vari
ous situations, will be immediately opened in the
town. The proprietors of land in the circumja
cent country ar& Elicited to fend their drafts and
terms ©f sale, or leafing, to Thomas Jones, Sur
veyor, in Beula, who will give security for any
trust Ft pofcd in him : with such co-operating aid,
the progrefsof the settlement wi«l be the n\oi e ra
pidly advanced arid extended to distant townships.
A public library for the benefit of the settlers,
will be cftablifhed in the town, towards laying the
foundation of which, upwards of one thousand
volumes are already purchased and principally feat
forward.
8. Two hundred acres of land adjoining the
town, bolides lots and fubferiptions, will be applied '*
to support a minister and preceptor, capable of
teaching the ufeful and liberal arts.
9. After defraying ncceffary expences, the mo
ney arifmg from the present be laid out in
public buildings—A place ps worship, school
house and library room, are the firft objects.
If>. i very profeflional ni3n and mechanic, on
condition ol building a house with a stone or brick
chimney, and residing in it, before the firft of No
vember next, will bp entitled to four lots gratis,
free forever from ground rent- Five and ten acre
out lots may likewise be obtained on
terms.
%* The two central llreets in Beula are ioo
feet wide, and the others 80 feet. Refcrved fquarts
end other accommodations must add to the health
and beauty of the place.
July 6. t ' _ 5t
Now Landing,
/It Pratt's <u/barf,
FROM on board the (hip Thomas Chslklty,
■Cipt. Rafer, from Kourdeaux,
CLARET in calks
Ditto in cases
White Wine Vinegar
Red Skins in boxes
For Sale by
Rundle & Leech.
May 1 s §
Davis's Law Book Store,
No, 319, High-Street.
GEORGE DAVIS,
BEING busied for fomt time past in prepara
tions for removing into his prs r ent house, has
been under thenecelTityof poftponinguntil this day
informing the gentlemen of the Ear generally thrp'
ihe United States, that his spring importation of
law books is now arranged and reaily for iale, on
terms tha,t he trusts will entitle him to the like pre
frsence he has experienced for leveral years pad.
Catalogues, combining the mod varied collec
tion ever imported r«o this country, are printed
and will be d.lr/srcd on application.
tanc . Jaw 6'.v
[Volume XIIFrom ths Virginia Gazette.
To Samuel J. Cabell—in Congress.
Silt, r
I trove often heard of people's being Con
demned without judge or jury—but I am.
lure you cannot fey U>is has been your cafe.
Your letters have been seen, read and fairly
v judged of bv all America ; and even your
best friends, and meanest relations have con
demned them. A court and jury you fay
have parted sentence upon theft). You, may
therefore, fairly be said to have been tried
by your peers. After all this, coramon
prudence ought tor ha\>e dictated to you to
have committed yourfelf no further : But
like one who has fuffered all the disgrace of
condemnation, a reprieve has been of no o
ther service to you, than to prepare you the
better for the prafectition of your favorite
pfaftice. We must, therefore, try you a
gain fpr this new offence of later borrowing.
I will not, however, make the charge of
bom-wing this last rag of knowledge from
the letter manufactory of Philadelphia, the
only charge against you, but will try the
thing on iii real merits as if it was actually
your own.
The charge then now turns upan a def
cantation on the duty of courts and juries,
and their rights to intermeddle with the free
dom and independence of your thoughts
Without a t(uibble, we may fairly try this
kit production, before any court and jury,
without intermeddling much, with the free
dom and indzpendehce of your thoughts, if the
gener.ii conjecture be true, of that independ
ence -confiding chiefly in the right of substi
tuting the thoughts atjd fentiment# of others
for your own. But,as you are the firft man
in /America who has had thehonorof object
ing to the trial by eburt and jury, I will
leave freedom and independence of your
borrowing ttie thoughts 'of others, which is
but a mere perfonil riling, to the true en
joyment, of these independent confederations,
and examine into your objections to 'the
court and jtiry mentioned in your address,
which indeed are of Tome confequerice to the
real liberties of this country.
Unfortunately for fonse of those who bow
down with the moil constant and loud pro
fcflions of love and admiration, to .the god
dess of liberty, they view the lovely medal
on but one fide only. They are friends to
the " liberty and independence of thought"
only while that liberty and independence of
thought consists in adopting the thoughts
of otlv.rs, and turning them particularly to
their use, this appears to be wholly the a
mount of your idea of the liberty and inde
penderice of thought—which you appear to
have borrowed, with many other excellent
things, from that favorite Republic, which
is now rambling all over the world with its
destructive armies, and compelling all the na
tions it can to be free —but upon its otvn
terms.
One of the terms upon which they have
compelled some nations to be free, is, that
they subscribe to governments similar to
their own. One of the excellent traits of
their government, I believe at the time when
they set Holland free, and it is pretty much
thepra£tice Hill, was the happy knack which
the demccrsts had of dispensing with the
little ceremonies and formalities of courts
and juries in the trial ofthe ari/locrais. Those
tribunals, might, perhaps have exercised 1
some liberty andindependence of thought,"
as well as the democrats, and thereby have
stopped the effufron of so much innocent—
filch horrid sluices of infant and female
blood.
You fir, it is well Jcnown, have laboured
as far as your feeble efforts could effeft it,
to prevail on the people of this country to
. make no resistance—or rather, to join those
"bloody monsters in cafe they should invade
your country ; and you have now fubferibed ,
your,name to another inflammatory address,
calculated to render the institution of courts
and juries unpopular, if it is calculated to |
do any thing, in order to make way for
those noble consequences which flowed '
from the want of them in France, whose (
principles you so much adore, and have thus
attempted to introduce here. ;
The Judges of the Federal Court you ar- (
raign for becoming abandofpolitical preach- -
tjrs (as you are pleased to call them) and go- j
ing about with unwarrantable sermons to
support the governmentofthe United States. '
This appears to be the substance of the
charge against them. Admitting it in its
fulleft latitude then, to what.does the charge
Theinfinuation goes to fhewthat
they have nothing to do with politics. In {
the name of common sense, what is theju- j
diciary, who are the judges of this country ? t
Are they not a branch of the American go
vernment, bound to fuppert that govern- J
ment, at well as evefy other branch of it, v
toth by the nature of their relationship with ■
the government and their oath ? What is
the government they are thus bound to sup
port, what the laws of that government,
which your adopted address seems to admit
is their duty to expound to do justice bet-
•ween individuals, if they are not a part of
the political-arrangements of this country ? j
HoW then arc the judges poflibly to avoid
political difcuflions, and giving their poli- r
tical opinions between the government and
individuals, and yet do their duty ?—Sup- Q
pose the government, or rather a part ofthe f
government, wa6 to attempt to abridge you ;
in any of your rights—For inflance, to im- ,
pref3 you as a seaman, or pretend to enlist
yon as a soldier, to fight against the French,
would you not then think that the judiciary li
Ihoulil interfere ? And what would that interfe- v
rence be,- but one of the greatest political si
cueftions that could arise between an indivi- -
dual and a state ? Why not then, when the k
injury is attempted to be reversed from the I
individual to the state,' fuffer the judge to y
interpose a little political advice ? a
You (or rather the person who writes for o
you) seems to admit, that if you had done rr
any thing criminal, die judge was, right.— d
That is admitting, I suppose, that- a judge, fc
though he be a federal judge, has a right to tl
give it in charge to a jnry, is tacit--duty, to
present ail Monies, such as tiViibi, murder,
and all other capital o3lucc:;-—-but, tTyit
everything that falls Wo w tljs dainty of
any other punishment, but u bare prefent
-11 ment of a jury, is not cognizable in that
,U ' way. You (hould haye remembered, in the
j-' fr.ft place, .that yon were not the proper
judge of the degree of yoilrov.'n guilt. And
11 in the fecand place, it is a fa£t, Well knijwn
n " to ev'ery one who has ever been a juryman
} in any part of America, that there are cer
'a'll offences which cannot be punished in
a any other way, but by the censure of." na
ln ked prefentini nt." Adin tting it to be
it a J'^S e to enter into a
j- history of the rife and progress of juries,
which certainly cannot be told over too of
ten to the real lovcrsfif iioerty, and to enter
into an explanation of their dutr in tliepre
e | fentment of actual offences against the laws,
which are certainly a political grievance, I
•j. fee not how your letters, which had, been
' condemned as a political petty-larceny by
11 every hangman in the (late, were poflibly to
e escape.
c But, fir, admitting every thing that is
7 fald in that paper against the .judge to be
right, though in fad he had said nothing
about you, your letters,or any one else, in
'' his charge, how is what is there said of the
jury, to be reconciled to that love which you
pretend to have for the " freedom and in
s dependence of thought."
' The jury by whom that presentment was
| made, was compofcd of the free and inde
, pendent citizens of Virginia, who were as
much entitled4o think and aft for themselves
as any other citizens of Amirica—the mem
bers of Congrtfs themselves even not except
ed, UnlefsSt can be proved, then, that the
| jury was packed ( which you dare not aflert)
they are no more chargeable with having
a&ed wrong, for having exercised their
" freedom and independence of thougTit,"
than you youtfelf were entitled to prefer
' your oiun " freedom and independence (&
' j thought," to the borrowing of the genius
' o.f a Madifon'in the composition of the let
they presented. And whoever is acquaint!,
ed with the jury, and will look over the
pan,nel, as you have invited them, will as
clearly fee, that. there was no more of the
influence of an Iredell in the prefentiycnt,
there was the genius of a Madifou in
the letters. Here then- you and the jury
(land upon exaftly even ground with refpeft
to the " freedom and independence of
thought," which is the mighty and impor
tant burthen of this last political ditty.
But how do you stand in this last attempt,
with refpeft to the a&ual means of securing
the liberties and independence of your coun
try ?—Juries, although I believe we are in
debted to that wretched place, Great-Bri
tain, for their institution (and this is bne of
the reasons, perhaps, why you ha* the ex->
ercife of their power so- much) have ever
been considered the great palladium of A
merican, as well as Bntifh liberty. Which
do you really think would be best, then, for
the people to join you in yonr " INDIG
NATION" to awe those ufeful institutions
from the exercise of their " freedom and in
dependence of thought," or fuft'er them to
go on without reproach, as they think ne
cessary and right, to expose the follies of a
few little letter-writing politicians in Coin
grefs ?
It might indeed be a valuable thing to ,
those gentlemen no other means
of supporting their popularity, to establish
the doftrine of their conduit's being held
sacred and above inquiry, while in Congress.
But after an attempt to deft roy that which
ought always to be attached to c6urts and
juries, to make way for that kind of facred
nefs in the representative branch of the go
vernment, whit would the people have to
expect ? Could they be surprised to fee that
bran eh attempt to eredt itfelf into any thing,
which the fame love of popularity, that sug
gested the firft attempt might invite them 1
to in a more promising degree ? It is to the '
preservation of the independence of the ju- 1
diciary, I had always thought, that we were '
to look for the salvation of liberty. While !
you arc Handing as a ccntincl, then, over the 1
" freedom and independence of the valuable 1
thoughts" of MefTrs. Claiborne, Clopton, (
New, and yourfelf, I {hall stand a3 an hum- I
bleadvocate for the RIGHTS of JURIES, 1
and a constant' expofer of the many follies f
and improprieties which such writers are en- j
deavoring to impose on the people in their'
own favor.
For after all that has been said about the '
court and jury's " overawing the freedom of
thought," can there poflibly be a more a- 1
larming attempt, than for the members of e
the legislature to call up the terror of the 1
people, to overawe the courts and juries in }
their favor ? Really, lir, this last attempt, |
which cannot be repeated too often, dr (hewn J
in too many different shapes, if possible, ex- j
Ceeds the firft, in which you endeavored to
prevail on the people to join the French x
againjl themfel-ms. But, fortunately, both 1
attempts are equally absurd ; and the execu- J
tfon nothing more than a ridicule of the de
sign. Whenever I look into one of your J
letters as a mere matter of curiosity, as I 1
seldom do for any thing else, I feel an al- J
molt irrefiftable inclination to laugh. But
when I turn my refledliona from, that fourc<£ v
of merriment, to the diftrift you reprefent < 1 1
feel an involuntary,propenfity to weep. For r
if it be true, that there is a delign to increase '
the powers of the union, whether it be by 1
* I have Complied with your request in i
looking over the names of the grand jury, t
who you iiftinuate were all foreigners but a y
few—l know them all, I think ; except two t
—-Thef- may be foreigners for ought -1 y
know—The reft are native Americans, apd ,t
I will •venture-to fay as valuable citizens aa t
yourfelf, though not members of Congress ; J
and if you will be at the trouMc of looking t
over their names again, yourfelf, I think you t
may expedt to hear frrtfn fotne of them in.a $
different way, than through, the,new/papers, ft
for your dark and falfe iafipuatioiis against e ;
them. rj
0 the atjjheraf.. or usmseralU exet tlofis of jts
', members, what (alas *) must.be the chance
it cf for its dai« /hareAn the diftri
>F bution of those powers ?—Fur Heaven fake
thai, if ycit have nj delicacy-and tendcr
it ness for yourfelf, have -some small cotripaf
e fion for the poor unfortunate diftritt you
r roprefent, at least; and write no- more for
d the press.
n The people fend you to Congress, as I
n have once tJd you before, lir, to do'their
•- business ; and not to employ all your time
n in writing letters. - They wish to hear from
i- you, as other diftri&s do from their re^re
e fentatives, in the exercise of your duty,
a through the debates,' and 'not through the
channel of those bad!y-lctter compofcd-com
- mon-place-party fayiugs, which they get in
t all the newspapers, at ieaft a week, before
'- they do throiigh those ponderous bales from
i, your letter copartnery. 'lt would answer
1 tlit valuable, end of flawing them what was
n really the " free and independent thoughts"
y of their own rggrefentative-—and wr i*)d fur
o nilli the means of a more fair- and juit ap
preciation of those real thoughts which I
s promise you lhall never be neglefted,'by your
e friend and real conftjtucnt,
r , TIMOTHY TICKLE.
P. S. I will not be so wanting in candor
however, as to conceal from you, that, not
withstanding your many errors and party
violence, there are two or three in this part
of the world who thinly with you ; nor will
I be so ungenerous as to keep from you the
" free and independent opinions" of one of
those friends, which you,are entitled to, in
5 aid of some others which have already been
published in your favor. It is a letter pic
ked up in the road, supposed to have been
" dropped by the port on its way to you. ,1
have dire&ed the printer to publilh it in all
; its valuable originality of " freedom of:
thought," falfe grammar and bad spelling ;
as it would be wrong, you know, to inter
. fere with your friends liberty and right to
' disgrace themselves, I have only subjoined
a few notes ps my own by way of expla
nation. The very firft line of the letter
fitewi ■'the relationlhip which your corre
spondent claims.
to cousin fammyraia//by the poll boy. ,
dear cousin,
i take up my pen to inform yofi that
your last £ifle has come to hand, you dont
think how the rifticats thatyou tokt so much
about grind at the prefentcment of the gu
ree against you. but for my part it made
me right mad. thr court and some of the
guree you no ar men of laming, and I hate
your men of laming, and they dont like
us you may depend upon it cousin caball.—
but i like you for that refon. for a repre
fentive ot to be a reprefentive you no. he
ot to represent what he is intended to rep
resent. and how wood a man of laming be
a good representation of a magouetee of
your * colleges, what beter cood be expefted
then'from a Court where there was a gudge
upon the bench and a gudge in the guree
room, every body m*tft no that they wood
be Ihore to go rong and contrary law. i dont
like that fame fiddral court at tall, you no.
it was them that made your good old f—in
—law pay a large old britifli det which ru
ined him. and them' dets you no ot not to
be paid, what didyou and we poor mifliflee
men site so d—d hard for last war if our best
friends and deereft relafhons are to be ruin
ned at last to pay these old brittlfh mar
chunts acconts. i oone myfelf aod.i never j
will pa it as long as i can get. such good fel- '
lows as you and some of your fupporttrs to 1
stand by me and cry down the fiddral cauft |
and gurees. in (hort i think all Qtir courts |
and gurees have too much power, they ot |
not to be fuffered to think as thay plafe.— c
cant you get a law paced in congress that if j
thay think and aft contrary to law that all <
thay doo (hall go for nothing, i think with
the ajfjijlanct of my cousin jtles ond some of '
the reft of Our.frencli funftionarrties f you |
might have it done, and then you might •
right and fay what you please you no. and s
the gurac wuld have no right to think about <
it. "but ant it strange that you congress 3
jnen will let one of the gudges from ireland '
come over here and aft as a gwdge and a
preacher too both at once, i suppose if t
this fame ireland gudge or gudge ireland v
gudges of the law all the weke and then \
preaches about religion of as you 1
lade he mutt be pade for both, and i realy r
think as one of your friends noes who has | V
ritten in the papers about it and fays he has |
been treeted very hofpitally in vurginnee. v
that our good bacun and collards that hu a
eats so much off when he rides here_ so fur
upon one off his long towers gust to present 1
your litters which he fays is to do so much v
good in this country against his is pay anus j
for his emty irish guts, this was a good hit g
In your friend dont you think it was to tell j,
him how he was treeted in your country
where he had treeted you so il. and therefore n
that he did not dtfirve any better than to be
told off it. igad i think he was up with ''
him for his presentment. wont he now upon
the hole, that is to fay. by the by. as i j,
herde some of your common fox fay. who ti
fay a word and then give you another of the '
fame fort to explatle it you no. it is true h
what you have said in your last fine pise. ye- 1
delefit. to wit. that 110 moral truth can be
more true tha that palitikal truth that is
true, or something like that, tantemount ?
there four every thing that you have fade t
must be twice true, etcetteree andfo fourth. "
i forgot to tell you that j; alias morn's and
tempore the taylor are determined to be* "
your enemies at the next leftion. and i raly "
beleve from what i have heard thay will do - (
you a grate deal off herro. i advise you t |
.therefore when you right again only right c
to your friends, and tel urn to clear away n
your litters off ove thare hobs and jams after! w
thay have red um for seer some more of 1 P
these larned mfn may come in and after- j
wards git on tlxe gurees. but above all.— ;
Hick to your sentry box s« you have promif- j 0
ed. and continue to hallow and jEake'all the 'ft
racket yqji can and aud as you fav y«u w;'-* tt
■. 'i,
s against thc#;aVerainent cousin caialland you
e (hall everjiave the vate and interest of your
i- fmcers irienu and near relation.
e _ fimonfimple.
notty binny. give my kind love and farvis
I - to couiin jiles. unkle clabum. brother'clap
u ton. daddy new. curnul all ray
r friends and £ood Fellows*, granny diner
who danced with you so much at the la ft
I le&ion and got you so many votes thank 9
r you for your lad kind and loving piM iio
e more at present. but all is well and hop';
n this will find you in fame citeation. f. f.
* Simon here means cwiftttuents I fup
e 'pose. But lijs own word will do full as
well, ' . '
~ f I suppose Simon means by this a word
e which I obfefve Mr. Giles hasjnft received
from the French mint, which coins a great
r many delightful words a3 well as principles
s for this country'-s coxcombs, apes and pe
> dants.
J He takes alias and m ires for Ellas Mor
ris, some conftitueiit of his cousin's, t fup
[ pose. And no wonder -that poor Sinion
r (hould be run into such an error by his cou
sin's learning, when we are told that one of
his ablest advocates on being asked
meaning of 0 tempord ! 0 mores ! after pauf
r ing a little and considering that much was
said in that letter of speculators, bankrupts,
• &c. and reflecting at tin; fame time on the
J lownefs of iertain notes, that it was an ad
' vice to be temperate in Morris's note--. In
; (hort it is impoflible to number the various
tranflatiofis land uses that have been made of ■
these celebrated words, or to mfeafure the
1 demand that theft letters have been in, and
still are. The Duke of Cumberland's love
letters never were in' higher demand, nor i
more deservedly. I
[Notty binny, as. Simon fays—l have j
taken the liberty' of aiarking some of Si
' mons words to be printed in italics. Indeed
some of his fritfuds names, as he has spelt (
them, defprve to be written in ■ letters of
gold.] T. T.
From the Farmer's Weekly Mvfeum.
" When mill the new moan be gone that <we may
fell and the Sabbath that W( may fit
forth wheat."
IN th.e diffip&ted cit.ies of London and' Edin
burgh, the abufc of Sunday has been a common
theme of reproach among those weekly guardi
ans of the public virtue, the periodical elTaylfts.
Jehnfon, ahd Hawkfworth heard the turbulence
ot a riot and the roar of intoxication, from the
saloons and taverns of the capital ; but their
confidence in the innocence, or the piety of the
villager?, precludtd even the faint inquiry, whe
ther holy days were profaned by rufticS. Mor
aiifts might repair to the hamlet on * eek days,
and remark vice and folly ; but on the Sabbath,.
the young and the old, the careless and the re
gular, would be found no where, but in a
church,.
Though th# catholic spirit of the age of rea
fotjindulges tlie latitudinarian with an immunity
from Sabbath formalities, still it might be ima
gined there could be found, both in town and
country, men, who if they did not kneel at the '
altar, would lit decently and seriously at the
fire fide. Libertines might be averse to hear a j
sermon, or n Ake a response, yet not wish a Sun
day away, that they might let forth wheat, the !
bottle, or card table.
This, however,experience prove? a vain imo- !
gination. 'l'hefeventh day is observed by mul- 1
titudes, oeither as a season of worship nor reft. '
The country and the city are alike negligent, i
Orf Sunday, the hufbemjman often examines ]
hiicropt, the merchant computet his interest, the ]
rake urges his ft (red, and the attorneey draws his •
declaration. i
This impatience of a day* sacred to quiet and J
piety®, is an odd trait in the chara&er of those, I
who are saluted with the title of rational Man I
is such «n indolent, wo arc rot surprised that he <
dec lines tlv* excrcifes of Sunday, but that he \
loaths its reft. Of many loungers whom I
know, I have computed, with mathematical
precision, th e yawns on every Sunday and M«n- 1
day, through the year- I .find that the aggre- '
gate lassitude ef the former to the latter is as. '
two (o one. ' t
The watch is fretfully consulted and its own
er queruloufiy atks, why tarry its wheels, -why -
does the dial point so tardily indicate the, twi
light hour ?
* Although th? custom of going to church is '
ancient, honorable, arid from fecial andpoliti- '
cat, as well as moral and religioui reafinns, laud- I
able ; yet, as my liberal scheme never excludes v
from the pale of charity, him, who prefers re- f
tired to cilenLatious devotions, lam desirous of
convincing the loiterer a; home on the Sabbath,
that there is no real'o» for aholilhing, or abbre- 1
viating that tranquil day. It it belter to go up, [
with thelfraelites, to the temple ; but still a do- 1
mcftic Sunday may be ufeful and pious, if cor- '
re.lly improved; and if we do not ahfurdly, c
wist it away. The apodle prescribes " milk for ]
babes." The moralist good naturtdly al- c
lows some fqueamilh ones thejjidulgeace of at
vitiated rievational'tafte, and suggests a pleasant
and practicable regimen.
It must, hpwever,-be preremptorily required, <■
that no immoral querist aflc when the Sabbath t
will be gone that he may fell core, set forth
wheat; or attend-to any low and fetular cares. n
If he flay from church, let him not grie»e the o
Sunday. If he will not ting with the Organ, let ■
him not play on the violin.
That Sunday may dcleiftably pass, it is not ''
necefiary that coeks should fight, bowls be quaf- '
fed, or bargains ba made. The seventh day is si
like a hermit, who not only utters the erilon, d
and nupr-.bers beads, hut loves the "itudiaus ,
nook," and the lonely fecne- Nothing iniLitat
ing, therefore, .with order and peace should be
tolerated. The jovial cry may be raised, and
" qairps and cranks" uttered at ®he " tune to ri
laugh," but {he grave and composed style-suits f'
the sobriety of the Sabbath. p
Leit the gayer department of my readers c;
(hou)dthink 1 envelope the christian day itj tu- tl
neral wegds-and tragic pall, I will strive to con
vince, ta jny eonclulion, that Pleasure and Pie- .
ty, like tee Hrtmia and HflcKa of the p<Jet, may
" ling one song, both in one key " P
Th» msri, who has toiled,, or idled fix days, tl
may, on the morning ef a seventh, choose a re- tl
tired walk, avoiding the hijjh way, and offence a
to the Weaker brother. I will fo puritan- •
icalor uttfilhibnable, as to hiiu that the villa of ,
this walk (hould be a fane, or a chapel. The '
contemplation of the fu|t>lii?ie and beautiful of °
nature, vivified "by theregent of the world," f
will naturally excite, in a good mind, the pro- ci
per emotion. Of extafy <r of rant theie is no
need. The homage of the heart is betttr than
the nafa!'twang of a whol? conventicle.
The forenoon may bi.rievoted to popular the
ology arid to sermons. My airj pupils need not
fiatt nor turn pale. Ido not place them in the e
tutelage ef the dczing Gill, or t*e myflii al -o
u Tubmen. ,1 do not pUce them amnng * Vcin- ■ ]
|r tier divines or on i ISaybr'ook platfoi m. f»*ivi- J
leged with the company of Atterbury, hiftuf**
YVatfon and J,„urn)c< Sterne, they nfa/confifr
. cr th'emfeivet pot only in a learned and ingen
ls ious, but a polite circle. I ft,ail not he tailed a
> four pr* Ibyter, by tbofe whom ! advise, if I f e .
i f? 1 " r Sunday ac«i«intance, gentlemen
;i as well aschriflians.
ft /.. dinner w)£h feme liberal clergymen, tha'
: 3 " a dinner of herbs," uill prove a better refec
tion thsn j pofatibh feaft.
' , Tiicaftemooo will jJafs without mu<h tedium, !
»'l if emph.yrcl among a will ordered family, and
rational friends, At intervals, fcri-sus poetry ;
wilt yield ahigh delight. The gospel sonnets ef
>- Prftine are not recommended, but the moral
s ■ •Yuhng, and the etithiifiailiiGray. ,
At the close of such a dty, the otiferverof it
(1 will not repine that Neligfuo' and the Laws re-
fufe.ppce a week,to perrurr the sowing of wheat,
oir the lale of corn. He will rejoice in this ta
bernacle of reft, and though delighting, at pro
rs _ per periods, in buGnef? and the ?.gi:atior.s of
- life, will nit forf'ketht water? of that Sabbath
of Siloam which flow fofty.
the lay preachkr.
n NORFOLK, jHly 6.
ViceConfulfhip of Virgin*,
f Norfolk, J due 30th, 1797.
The Vice-Conlul of theFrenA Republic, to'
* the Mayor of Norfolk
s Sir,
~ I received the honour of your letter of
g the 29th inftj I embrace the opportunity
. that now presents itfelf to devdope my opin
-1 wn, and to teftify my gratitude to you and
s the court, for the ready attention you have
f- afforded to the objeft of my reclamation:
e may it be permitted me to assure you that
1 n <3 one desires more than friyfelf to fee a uni
. J on exist.between thi French and the iuhabi
r j tants of this" town. On the firft aggreflion
(of.whi ? h Commodore Barney narrowly es
caped being the viaim) a fever? order'was
. ifiued on board the frigates to prevent any
[ fe'tmen from leaving the ships, except thole
Vvho were necessary for the service, although
F our laws permit in port 'the tenth part of
the crews to be daily on shore—thus they
wtfre punilhed for havingbeen iiirulted—this
was a facrifice they voluntarily made to the
- public tranquility, although ' they knew
' that there is not a code on earth that inflifts
on the innocent, punilhmeritsl incurred, by
the culpable. I need not recall to your
remembrance the discreetness and moderation
that have distinguished the French erews du
ring their stay i;i this port. Your predeces
sor has done justice to them in his letter to
the commander.' If, notwithstanding so
much prudence and precaution, they have
been exposed to new aggressions, arguments
will not then invalidate fa&s. I have efta
blilhed my. demands on a chain (series)
of insults that the French have experienced.
Is it true, that the officers and sailors in the
service of the Republic have been insulted
andoneaffaulted >ls it true,that they havenot
hitherto received any other fatisfaftion than
assurances that these excesses should not be
renewed by the individuals who committed
them ? When these excesses are repeating
in an arlarming manner, and that the a'g
greffors experience only the flight inconve
nience of furnifhing a fecurlty,. (alVays rea
dy to be found, for their future conduft,)
in agreeing with the magistrates, that their
laws of police are obflacles'to their zeal; it
remains, at the fame time certain, that as
•long as the guilty are. not punished, justice
has not been executed; that is,, that no pun
lfhment has been infli&ed, and, opt that
justice was not granted, as your translator
(from whom the true meaning of my expres
sions escaped ) understood It. To do justice
on an individual, lignifies in our language,
to punish him.
I should not liavs entered into this gram
mdrical explanation if I was not jealous (delir
ous) not to leave any doubt with the court
of the motives that animate me (I am ani
mated by.)
With refpeft to the tlifpute arisen between
an American and a French officer, permit me
to oßferve, thßt it is not here an individnal
dispute that does not'require theimerpofi
tlon of-the magistrates. A cdmlat in the
high ways* an alfembly (a cv«wd)of people, in
which a French officer was assailed by his
firft adversary, and many other f>er/ons, and in
danger of his life, are not events that can be
remedied by an addition to the laws of polite
ness, but that can be prevented by reiiiforce
ing the laws of individual ferurity. Mr.
Saundei's conduft is aggravated by another
ciime ; Has he not broke open the doors ef a
Frenchman's hoUse (Mr. Blondel) t in pursuit
of his antagotiift.' t
I have made my and I again
request you to have "regard to it. Farther,
Sir, my duty with the magistrates is to be
the defender of oppressed Frenchmen.
I deelare to you, that no one feels with
more watmth than I do, the smallest insults
offered to any Frenchman whatever ; and it
is because I desire with so much ardour to prc
ferve the harmony that ought to exitt bet ween
the two natifins, that I repelled with more
firmnefs the attacks of individuals, whose toi»
declared hatred endeavours to rend afuniier tl,-o,
ties that I would wish to fee drawn c'lofer be
tween France and tl:e United States.
If the warmth of my denunciations againfl
repeated aggreflions can prevent a (ingle one
for the future, or ftifle a tingle fubjeft of com
plaint between a Frenchman and an Ameri
can, I shall belme that I rander equalfervice
to your country-and mj* own.
I repose at present on the venjreauce of {he
laws and on the equity of the judges, for te
paration of the attck committed by several ot
the inhabitants united, in open day, and in
the street, on a Frenel-officer in uniform,
and without arms, and whatever may be the
judgment obtained L fhail efteera myfelf too
happy, if it is the last of thrking I shall have
occasion to folicit^
Receive, Sir, and please to prefetil to the
court, the afftirance of my rttbrft.
(Signed) DUHAIL.
Sir,
I have the honor, to iiiform you, that
every attention has been paid to the contents
of your letter of yesterday—we consider theJ
fly *T «
of I ' IIS borough. Wdl knoW th ? Pr«.
Ps% ihzt Mon °f eVery ,
,» i en V'i' S ° If> — Wf tiie imore readily j
• acknowledge that the conduft of the crews i
belonging to the Medusa and Infurafnt has i
fTTS' r ee! '/ ro?e -' « we Si!!" J
d ful of the facnfice which necessity and a re- S
Y f g a J dto the public peace has imposed upon c
,' to your quefiions, '• Is it ' r
t • true that the officers and failow in the fer- t
" I of »he repubUc, have been Ir infulted 'and n
' I eSrl the a ?S"%»experi- u
"ft fflk- I » e - h , l ,nc 9"venience of furn- !tl
- , jfhing a fecunty (always ready to be found) }c;
! for their future conduct." We have only ■p,
to obferye, that whenever complaints are
made to the magistracy,. by an injured par
i fa fer as our laws extend, was
never denied. We presume it to be perfeft
for future good cor.dust involves a pecunia
, ry obligation, and that a violation of recoe
mzance, produces a recovery of the penalty, nu
f w f I l ft,onthe contemplation, Vc
that such is our jurisprudence ! Ading au (
under a government of laws, and not of men, J As
the will o f»the magillrate cannot be fubfti- 4 (
tilted for the established law of the land, wo
being known to us, we ask
entertain nodoubt of your according with us the
in the fentiment-that arbitrary summary ten,
proceedings, and consequent punishment
form no part of the police of a free govern- Ext
merit. We lament that ads oT individual in- p
discretion, should be wrought up to mani- "
ei ations ot national hatred : this conclusion we
ca.mot, we think, be just, when it is con- wor
tempiated, that in every attenipt to preserve Ftei
the public repose, we haVe fought for >he fron
aggrelfors among our own o'tizens Only. to b
So fir as relates to the outrage commit- by f
ted on the house of Mr. Blondel, we have rend
further to observe.that the laws are open to be ft
him, and a redress cart only be obtained by men
a recurrence thereto. cond
Moil assuredly will the this has 1
| borough, unite with you in every endeavor auth,
1 to eniure the peace and harmony between "
the citizens of the two republics, and it will Com
. a-.ord them> the highest gratification if such polit
r mutual endeavors prove fuccefsful in pre- litual
i venting future uneasiness. oppo
In behalf of the court of aldermen, timer
I am, with refpeft, 1 obfer
v n , thatt
i our molt obedient servant, prope
m-c u. G^o : LOYALL, Mayor. of th
Norfolk borough, July 1, i 79 7. rent
, Citizen Duhail, consul of the to evi
- French republic, Norfolk. found
difpof
XJe (£asette* thc „^
PHILADELPHIA, should
Thursday eventng, j u i y i 3. v «t <
~~— »■! _ which
The following is the conclusion of a letter Shoul.
t . h s. Secretary of Stite from the Span- our a <
. Mi lister—published this morning in a more 1
Pamphlet from the Office of the Aurora oeceiTa
The whole letter /hall appear to-morrow.
" After having followed you step by
P through the various points of your
Report to the President, I /haft make a short T J
compendium of such as a rife from this let- condem,
ttr , from whjch it results. Ship
'' °" 2 of February, I gave S rna - d «
; » y° u ft'fficient particulars refpefting the in- £hip 1
tended expedrtion, to have attracted the at- Bri „ !
tention of this government. ' 0 j
2. That although to this verbal commu- Sailed
1 , nication, I added another in writihg on the ,h - Briti
2d of March, the President had not the Na " cyP :
least knowledge of it on the 9 th of the fame in J t /J
month, and that without doubt you must
have had very powerful motives to prevent
you from communicating it to him. Sch'r Pe
3. That it does not appear by the docu
mcnts presented by. the Secretary of War, The 1
that Government had given orders to the P r ,? videE
military commanders to cause the territory vt a*?
"ts ndi "' ° !tht Un " cdSt "" ,ob "
4- That you made to the Englilh Mini- Jenks, fa
a communication, which in my opinion P an y w '<
you ought not, and that e»en if you thought lhat ai P 1
it neceflary, you delayed doing it for two
months that is, f rom the 27th of February
to the 28th of April, although it refpefted
a most urgent and important objeft.
5- That the Baron de Corondelet could
very well have received my letters, without
. its necessarily following that his had come
to hand.
trir' r^"^a t the B ar on did notreprefent Mr. I>in a
Ellicott's not writing to hira officially as a t0 the Ca P
• complaint, but as zn observation, and that in
fadt he never has done it in those terms. FOl
7- 1 hat the proofs you alledge to excul- A few b
1 PattMr. Ellicott, refpefting his intentions J ul y >3-
ot ***">g the Fort of Natchez by surprize, Perfon , s
I are purely negative. n*r, are del
8. That it isnot merely pretences, but ve- MuflCt
ry powerful reasons, which have impeded
» the evacnation of the Polb, and the ran- W4 RPE
ning of the Boundary Line.
9- That the insinuations with which you and thep^J
aie willing to persuade the American Peo- hopes tl
pie that our arming is direded against them, "1 l,riiric ' l
are unjust as well as unfounded, as by Mr of _ theirf "
Blount's letter it is clearly, demonstrated to
be a precaution for the mere purpose of de- himfdf wii
fen Ce. • judges, to b
IP. That you evidently contradi'ft your
». when on one hand you are pleased to twelve mon
attribute to us the movements of the lndi- N. B. A 1
ans, and in the very next paragraph you tUßf d, and
shew it might proceed from American citi- dll > al:ch ' an
zens, as it actually does according to Mr.
Blount's letter; and that he afted with the
knowledge and intelligence of the very fame
British Miniiter, in whose private, notes,
without Jignaturc, and perhaps not of his hand timt
? ar * u
11. That although in all your official es ' and lsa
W communicat.'ous, you have always manifefted j unc
I'and'"f cf notht* ™ en ' c * n V°*?wWit kfteW ,
...»its' 7,*^
Vs d«fiv. !i- r, U V- C1 -<lr. Blount's letter clear
i '"""" th " 1 ~ **9, fc >i« it. I
ty'fS, dulV™ Almi'd? rf '
isns- fe*; d d,- m ™ c " * rf »-us ss •
8 '. j "tuatiOn, their wants and resources m„>» "•
art S&Sirxfr^^r*^® 1
'• Is it ' mhl oPin T-' " Icu!ated t0 promote so defi- b
Is it rahle an objeft to us all. For my part a! I
1 ted iS S ; 1 sna " Ie3VS nothi "S undone, to ce- !
! experi wlkr r""A and - h u rmony with a natl 'on w
» expen- ■ which I refpeft ; neither (hall I ever fuffer i w
fJ™; | th f e "f the king, my master, in apy F
| ;S;r« ,o be »■» ■£* F „
n " e 1 p 3' God t0 preserve you many years. an
red par- Your most obedient humble servant, ca
'cm. CARLOS MARTINEZ DE YRUin P C
perfeft- Philadelphia, Julyn, du
lecunty /y ' '
lecuma- COMMUNICATION. tio
recog- There can be no doubt that if the Reve- tin
penalty, nue Cutter only had accompanied the the
aA'""' a „a!if r 3 l lea Sues the k ft 'eafon, ma
Aftwg and had since been qn look-out for the Th
r kfl"' n to ret r Uni W ' tfx her to P ort > the price of dov
i J' 4 ° f War ' com P'«tly manned, &c. I 1
•land, would have been saved. A correspondent' P»>"
M, we aflcg whether the Ganges, &c. for which fu "
11 1 us the pirate below is now waiting, is also in- to 1
nmary tended to be prefent<;d to thefp plunderers > ind <
nment ' the
overn- Ex trail of a letter from a gentleman of res- ™g
ual in- pe<S ability dated Savannah, July i ' O7 .
mam- "\V e have nothing new here, but what A
n we have_ from your quarter, unless it be der,c
s con- worth informihg you that , forty or fifty j take
eferve Ftenchmen in uniform arrived here by wat-r 1 ' ea se
>r,he from Charleston, whose dettination is said
y. to be Augustine, from whence it is inferred A
limit- by some, that the Spaniards will lliortly fur- and
have render it to the French. There ar«> said to S °"t
•en to be some among us endeavoring to procure ] e
by men to go to the fame place ; but their ward
conduft, tho' it has excited some suspicions,
this has not, from any thing which Ihave heard E *tr
eavor authorized a belief of such intention. fir
we " _ " °P' e a Ppear to be here as they are in tr )
twill Congress, and elsewhere, divided about the
such politics of the day. But tho' my retired
pre- ltuation prevents me from having the best " I
opportunities of judging of the public fen- magit
rrZ > ytt r J may determine from the .on by
obfemtions I havemjd* I should conclude nond,
that the number of those who from an im- quart,
proper part,ahty would oppose the interests than ,
r. of this country ,s few : Under this a PP a- bed, c
rent impression, and I suppose from a view to the
to evince an attachment to that interest, I run fr
found on my arrival in town a very prevalent at Ca'
__ lfpofition to pay particular attention to town '
the wfu.ng anniversary of our independence, bridge
The appointment of additional envoys to Ge
Zr ff a I j" d j cious measure, and tembe:
should it effeft the desired objeft, it will pre- are ftri
3- *?. t .° U 1 r 1 bein g.evolved in that calamity petitic
_ which^all [well d,fp o fed men *uft deprecate, stretch
tte r Should the French still determine to reieft also to
a„* ° Ur a . dvance? - 't 7'U tend to unite u, the in coni
„ a more in any measures that it may be found a lotte
ira . Deceflary to adopt." Q pate m
)w - feafoh,
by G/iZETTE MARINE LIST tothec
sur Pr)nr cf Philadelphia P rletor i
„ s," ri
in- anc )'> BiHfnga, of this port, ation, ■
»• »(«aRSS? t «"»;•
Dispatch, M'lntyre,' rio Ze " S ln
l " rh f S ßM^ r r M,y co "voy of e ,
he Bntlfh frigate Andromache, Mansfield The
Nan 'y put into Gibraltar. ' Coast t
ae in g B trUJ M ' nCrVa * Bray " P ° rt at Ccuta ' wait and 76
id xj r ,. v ~ . informs.
Nt A RR TvIr RK ' J y ' 2- That
Sch'rPCy, Freeman,
Doal, Ant ; between
r, Pr lh * American ftip Pa ty, A-nt into New- try » a t I
le Jfrov'dence th ' P»vate ve(T c l of war, Camp- 'ng the 1
T virl aJ • | opP ' nger ' h " been tried b r the brought
ie t V '". Admir4lt V and released. Thlcap- time. ]
tors have entered their appeal. u
• r l he r^| !t jf ConfederaCy of ,h: ' port. capt. T 3
'* n!n J rc "£ Cai " on the llth / an - in com- r.*V
n pany with the RufTell, of Newport, and left the lnfar
t that■fcip twa days after, o ff the Great Ladr.nes e P- Th
0 fbntph Ca Pt' J cr -ks was bound to Ham- eral Crai
v ' a hnug-e
1 ' 11 - cause of
■T Or 80/ ion, or officer
1 Schooner advance;
1 $ A t L Y, 7 t |' enc:
: Asa Scudder, Master, f.
VTOW lyinp nt Cheftiut-llreft wharf; will fail
, i-N in a lew days. For freight or palTagk, apply
L to the Captain on board, or to
Jo/eph Anthony, Co. Capt. ]
For Sale on board said Sceooner, at Mar bl<
A few barrels of Hat MACKAREL Lisbon
'it Hinckley
r hav ! n S f "'S ht -on boart the said fchoo- are inform
def'fd to call immediately for the fame.
Mujtcal lnftrument Manufactory, Englifhm
Hifo. 167, Arch-Street. frigate hac
si^ P l ER ' l ? ar P ficko 1 r f • S portable graud; mouth, hay
lid -board, pier table and Iquare piano lorte
mafcr fron. Londsm,,returns thanks to his Iriendi " an j g p
and the puM'c, for thfl.r liberal encouragement, f ? L "'
and hopes that by h„ assiduity and attention to ev- hel g ht , th
er j branch of his bufiiu-fs, to merit a continuance commence'
zLj'a 0 "' made on the nsneft was COniei
and moil approved with, pedals; pateat, patched t<
rCfC J lUrp stop • Wl " ch h =« a «e,s
himfcif Will ue found on trial by unprejudiced IT ,',
judge*, to be ejual ifnnto t fuperiorto any import- the
ed, and twenty per cesit cheaper. Any inflru was it kno'
murnt purcha'xd „f him, if not approved of in N. B C
twelve months, hf will exchange. - "
All kinds of Jiffufical instruments made US °
tuned, and repan e,-with the greate.ft accuracy £ a P ers > thl
dilpatch, and on the molt reasonable term, ilr Aeetat Poi
ready W oney«,ly. ■ ' Previous
Second hand P.ano Rorte, taken in exchange. there were
-f or bale, alarm - ,•
T HE: timtrof a Mulatto Mai, who has about <, II S f l
yj."' to s erve . enderftands the uare as florf ? e ¥ rall y b(
es,and is a gOodwaitejr, " ded, from :
, Jre l(j Inquire of the Printer. appear in pi
iiw ue in cog.
lent knew •, '-^rgsyrgr
oundkliofi ! j> r 7 7 "
tterciwr. i>y this day's Mail.
the right. —>
NEW-YORK, July
"agreeable between one and two o'clock yefterdiv
ribute to m "™ng, Dr. Romayne of this city, was I
rxh unite ? c , n b y order of the Executive of die U I
ich their "'ted States, and with his papers concluded 1
:s, invite * ■ ™"»delphia, in cudody of the Marflial |
profound c un(l erK:and some letters from Mr Rlonnt
rof your were f moi, S his papers. j
s not, in 11 ' s well known that Dr. Romayne has
efo defi- eeR latei y "i England and France. I
part, al- j j
e, to ce- ! " yfe are assured that capt. Nathan Halev I (
a nation : „ °, Was r^' d to b e taken in the (liip Hare' j'
'er fuffer ™ as the liian.viho condufted her into I '
~; n any prance, ft seems rapt. Haley went to J
n unjust 2""J fe^ the fliip failed, and L
returned. Pne ship was taken by 'a boat !r
years. and on trial it was neceiTai yto identify |
•vant, eaptor, when capt. Haley himfelf ap- I"
vrujo. P ea !" ed a! . ,d P ro ved himfelf the man, by pro- | SI
, j ducing his commiflion. 3 P I q
- ?
! 'i 0 ™ 1 unifoi7n of a marine officer, and is fit-
Reve- tmg out a privateer A representation of I V
Mouirt the circumstance* of this capture has been [°
leafon, made to the proper authorities in France.
For the J h 'S "Itelligence is from refpedable and un- "
irice of doubted authority.
d ' , &C -' naf J, ther ! earn that French are very by
ondent particular in taking American velTels, unless f
which Junked with papers exaftly. in conformity Z
ilfo m- to their regfilat.ons-and no hopes of any ad'
CrS ■ Rvl % °" r mercha nts, until we break we
,f the Brit.fh Treaty. Preparations are mak- 1
of res- m S to invade Portugal. [Minerva 1 I sri !
»*97-! . v al
what j An account is received in a New Provi- !m
it be , d «ce paper of June 2d, that the Britiih had i
' 7 ' leafed nll f St " Domi "? 0 ' and re- me,
water ; calec * of American vefTels I a
s said ■ » r nd
lerrod An attempt has been made to break open hZ
y fur . and rob the vaults of the Branch Ban/in Fre
aidto SomhCwohna which did not Hcceed. Bn.
jcure 'e Djreaors have offered 500 dollars re- to i
their ward for fecunng the offender. " T, ln|
ri°ns, j j(r
leard Ext^ a of « letter from a gentleman of the f ro^
firft refpeftability in-the Western coun
re in try, to his friend in Albany.
the «< Geneva, iotb June, 1707.
tired « Dear Sir, 797 I 1
best " Our business of the rftad goes on like in g,
fen- magic. I am aided beyond my expeftati- m °rr
the .on by the inhabitants of the county of O- b X a<
lude nondago. By my last report from that P'ed
1m- quarter, I (hall have the afliftance of not less P ro ff
rests than 4,000 days work, voluntarily fubferi- all th
P.Pa- oed, on the two roads from the Cayuga lake valua
,iew to the deep springs ; and as a ftag | ;g t<> frty ,
t, I run from Whitgftown over the new bridjre Miss
lent at Cayuga, and from thence through the loft v
to town of Seneca at the fall ) where a good ' The i
nee. bndgeisnearlycompleated) and from thence the 01
-oys to Geneva, and Canadarqua, by firft Sep- preset
and ember next ; the inhabitants on each road °f thi
prew areftnving for the preference, and this com- breez
my petition w, 1 draw from them the ufmoft of our
ate. itretch of their exertions. We have much » an
left alio t 9 hope from the liberality of the state to fay
the m confeqnenceof the !aw of last feffion'for Oh
3 lottery ; however, S s we cannot antici- John
pate much aid from this resource the prefcnt I I'g'htn
eafon, and as it will be of great importance the
o t e community at large, particularly pro- wonfp
pnetors of land m the western to ' ftandii
have a good road communication from the the lie
»« county of Ontario to th f Mohawk rive, 1.
ha- and as httle aid can be obtained from tliei
Mattering inhabitants in the Oneida Referv-1 „
ation, we flatter ourselves that we fhali re- °
ceive substantial support- from Patriotic citi- 20
zens in the lower part of the state." 2
he r S A ho °r ne c Rajah ' 134 days from the Weft
• S S 7 at^ V John Carnes, master,
it and 76 days from the Cape of Good Hope Tune
inrorms. " ' ~
That on the 14th of April, i 79 7, /here
i j as a fllar P dispute in the britilh armv p
u between the Irish artillery and Englilh infanl
"• nl'.h ! f'<"? f , G God° od H °P'.
mg the landing of the French in Ireland over I
ie brought on an aftion which lasted foire -
>- time. It began in the barracks where they an y tw «
would admit of no officers for thirty fix ° r sumsf ums
• hours The artillery had fix men wounded; be "n
ft en C ' n T a ( thr " k, '" ed a " 1 elevcn wound: | bridge
?S er,'l r 6 r! ft ° f the seCOnd da y Gen- notice,'it
. entered the barracks, armed with tors to fii
a hnuger and pistols, and demanded :he coi npany
- cause of the disturbance, and if any soldier \ nd char !
or officer had any thing to fay to him, to u hereon . i
advance;which ceufed a silence on their part
-the next two corporals, anda ferjeant bet giy
of the artillery were Ihot, and so ended the
I 0t- ttt the efTeil
r OAT 0n the
SAEEM: July 7. * be paid t<
Capt. Bray, in the brig Mercury, arrived ""''T °J
L fbon —She left there June 4 ._ By Capt. 1795, « -
Hinckley, a passenger in the above brig-, we dollars; a
are informed, that two days before he failed tlie lft
. he was told by Mr. Dorman, a reputable ,ft N ? vei
Engl,lh merchant in JLilbon, that an Englilh
frigate had that moment arrived from Ports- liT' r , t [°
mouth,havmg llipped her cables, & brought into rigid;
intelligence that the mutiny on board the quents.
grand Englilh fleet had arisen to such a By
height, that an engagement had a&ually w
commenced between several Ihips, and it
was conjeAured, that this frigate was dif-
patched to give intelligence to the grand- Wi
, tC P ° in, J?" 18 ' — T he passage of LOTTE,
the Englilh frigate,is not mentioned, nor !
was it known by Capt. Hinckley. ""PICKEI
B. Capt. Hinckley had read, previ- 1 con-.m
ous to this intelligence,in tlje Englilh news- SAJjE ' Tl
rrevious to the arrival of this frigate drawin?.
there were three mails duejat Lifton from' Check
England—which haft excited confidence i ? t i te(
alarm. x > and P*te
reported at Lilbon, ant}
generally believed, that Mr. Pitt had abfeon- drawing in 1
ded, from Eugland— or rather he dared not 1 i,e Lu ' iß
appear in public, and was obliged to contin- Note>
ue in cor. utmoli attenl
r fune 1
"I !adc^fSr Jcrvrs ? i! ' COntinued tie block
-111. j»le of Cadiz -and expefted every day to
receive orders to attack and take the city—
j wlncn ltwasfaidhevvoulcfeftea n s "ii,
yesterday ' ff' 1™ a » dlfmantkd, and' could
city, was jJ 3 fe . eWe reh/tancc. Several Englilh men
,f dle U " j fromYhe rCaCh ° f the caMO »
;ondufted p e & pamlh batteries.
Marflial. Li Pt * H " that 5 American vef
bi °- Vi ' go - tvv ° ° f wh;ch
layne has I
I w «- OSTO N, July 8.
I r '*„■ continue in anxious expectation
n Haley, ° f ,ntell from Europe later than before'
'P Ha f e, J mr^ n nt' t ; atec '* I" Ireland, as late as May
her into I the lat . eft fr ° m that kingdom— the voice
i? a '° h uder p,tch and pre "
'led, and I •, , ! P j the government tho'
boat > ! fun,-,,- (7 grated appears determined to I
itify the j ' u PP reis "try effort of the people— and nu
"elf a P" andTtL • Pr ° feCUtions ' P u niihments f
5?. I. ef ° rm ' cml ar ' d religious, is the
1 the na " { ho'je '' AfT Je^~ C/n ' on the watchword and
ad is fit- - Aljociations multiply, and affiliate I
ation off r
every thing bears the strong- marks'of j
. b«n ai£. 1 ConjcSurt'is iVHri .
F ™«- «S?a " J r"'
and un- £2 ln the Clvil concerns of Ireland. |
ihe reports said to have been received
ire very Z arn y al at Marblehead from Portu- *
, unless Md p3rt ""radiilory. } 0
ormity j founded on h"" ° f ' j® rep ° r£ '* I
of any admiral Col li 'FW °" board I
< <>"£ Hx+s t: _
e mak-1 , natl * e known the paflaee of th* p.ja I
iter \ h "" r T
w r««ar3£rfiss;Ss?;•
"■ s? "t ""¥• «*- «-s:
W,th a " E'glift ftip of 6 guns, and 16 I
onen K l "' COnVU >' cd 2 7 fail of American veffe's
nk "Wh Nicl ' o,a M ° le - Several
j „ rench "niiliei came in those vcffels Th* I
„c« ; "»»«• -f"»». 100 £T, t ™; -
Tune 00 3d of
J e. Capt. George C ark, late oftlm brie I
f e us Barh.has. arrived at New Yoik I J
oun- J J am a.u;a,,in the Eleven Sons.
FREDERICKSBURG, July 7 J
17. FIRE! FIRE!* 7
" y ' of all °thers the most F
' e ln S' "lied the ears of our citizens yesterday
ftati- niorning about 10 o'clock. It commenced,
°. by accident, m the kitchen on the lot IT
that P'edby Mr Thomas Cochran, and in its
V aH°th ?f r 7 ed f,x dwelling-houses, with
,f cn . all theout-houfes annexed thereto : the most
lake val " ab ' e ° f the houses were two the prop- 1
?, t0 I l r " Za chariah Lucas (occupied by
,dg e Mife M. Hume, and Mr. J. Gunnell) whose A V
the Joss we think may be estimated at 2 0001.- A '
rood house in which he lived, and those on C "
ence the opposite fide of the street, were happily ®
3ep - P r e .f rve by the providential circumstance
•oad °t the prevalence of a light south-west
om breeze, without which the utmost exertions
noft ot our citizens would have been of little avail 1
uch »n arresting their progress. We are happy S I
late fa Y one got hurt. I
' fo . r T oh Sunday last the dwelling house of Mr. fends
L 1 ! & G ° rc ' f Culpeper, w|s struck with ftet i,
Cent 1 "gntning and consumed, together with most « df
nee ot the furniture. His daughter, a young 81-001
)ro - , won*, of about 2 o years of a ge, who wa
to M»g m the door, was knocked down by ?!!?
thehghtmng, and expired in a short time. 5, g ri
! vWWWin *^ M i"'""" ■■■■■ mi u rooms
.Z\ VViII be Landed, t other ,
re - rom on board the lhip A<f}ive, Capt. EL*iß,from cZf
namhureh,
Iti- 40 bales white Ruflh clean Hemp j"
a calks Clover Seed ot S ro
For Sale by aa<!
eft Thomas Herman Leuffer, iX'L
| Tune 16. North Fifth ftre«t, Gofort
;re eor getown Bridge Company. Tori
n- Ex ,hrft.°/, aa lj s' the Legiilature of
the <iate of Maryland on the 29th December T nnr,
■n- 1791. entitled, »An ail for erecting a bridge'
rid over Potowmac river. 0 i
He W 4ndU it enaSfd, that the said direflors or
?y any two »f them (hall and may require auy sum
ix or sum, of money in equal proportion from each _
1; he n (7 pr ° prietcr ' as m;, y• from time to time i HE
>j be necessary for carrying on the building of said , £ , tht
' ! d f ; . a " d „ afte r P ivi! '« three months public hi
1- notice, it fliall and may be lawful for the direiV '"T
h tors to sue for and r.cover in the nams of the "
le company such unpaid requitition, with all costs Val
;r and charges incidental thereto, and legal intereit n T
0 K e ° n . J ,rom 'he time the fame fnould have '
been paid: And the negleft or refufal to pay am- l nr
It r^ u 'fit.or, after public notice shall have Si, bu'fi,
1 b een given at lead for three mouths in all the the pcrul
» "hTefift'ro fn f' R , b^ ore en " merlted 'stall have at ffu lib
on the (harr or (h * P rccecljn K payments made I Gccr is m
be illdZVf ? 4r^\ 0 nC l^ ector to I frlf to aD 1
s he , a " d beneht of the 'company." Stage cer
mation of such ol the stockholders as have not «rg, or a.
complied with the requisitions heretofore made Now fr
i7o f esr / r< i a M folk,w: u on the Ift No vember, public we
' j m ar ®' nn 'he loth May, 1706 ,<0 this bufim
; thi IS i a " th f / oth j "> 1 4° hilars •on R
' ,n m '•' < ' pte L m ' 1? 9 6 . 40 dollars, and on the t0 P rofecu
fvovember, 1796, fio'dollars.' Caution is tcntion an
now given that after the expiration of the time iic can P oil
limited for the continuance of this advertise- T , bc abc
ment (three months) the law will be carried *22
ggei* con, P „„,„ M
By order of 1 he Direaors undertakin
IVALTER SMITH, Treasurer. £aX S
Georgetown, Ma M , X 79 7. iaw 3m and FHday
\H T* 11 • , . ~ "" ——— Carlifie an(
WiJham BJackburn x e V lif \ cd '
LOTTERT and BROKER'S OFFICE •Stagewii
Tipi/it r- 0 ' 64 fcut b Stc °nd firfeet. of Samuel
ln j be Lottery, No. 11, which fcu T NOl
day B COn 'f! en# cI ra «'ine the 19th May, FOR return
. i.E. rhe price of Fickctswill rife in propor- e,et 'y Satu
fj, i WIn K advances, particularly on ac- Lancaaeroi
/ C „ drawn t' c kets, prizes of days.
Rawing" each ' ° n the lall da y 01
Check Books kept for examination and register- N*
Zs - N.. w'
Pefk s omen k Br^ r «>«%e and tot
j • 4t *S e^ io ttcries, which will beein Mr. Samuel
I SXef. 7 p , thC summer - da V rao ">'» l
Pi'l- ? > 3 r '. n a " kinds of Stock, trick Coch
ucmiift nKentieo' 0 ' UM&fl(d wilh tht <h«"«
V COLUMBIA HOUSE
the city— fiovdiftg-Schcjjol for youn? Ladies
:heSpaniih .ift£3*l
mid make '«>»** M sincere ac
nglifh men hj r^
he cannon fI&StSiZ
of which j* r re r nve " fei ' £ 's3r: f:
Atolars. Eyery brand, of ufef.,l °V fc r
. I eaucatmn .s J>arhcyi i vly.„Tt„,i c j t< v L P Ml " e
.Gronmbridge a hd m«A«r? eicelli£ Z &
| relpcfilitept-oJVfTons. a l '"-"
petition .Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Street,
an before I J" ne Sth, j 797. , crs
eas May I I ''f fituatiun is perfectly healijiv • j.'"' ' 1
■the vriife T 6 Weh y an « fcen'«dS
and nre- fe" nd «4i<ffnj ng rh> hop*. 1 ind lot
lent tho' I "'ft krtglijh Crown Window Glass
lined to I A „■ J '
r I 10 by 8
ie conle- J ir ]y 9
s, is the j by (o
and I *4 by so ' 21 2 bqxss.
affiliate, j '6 by 12
aarks of I Likewise frefli Rice' 4 hi h rr,
divided J mefsiieef, in half barrels. & P Bran( *y> tell
reform- j Sai ' Cloth, No. ito 8 '
I Sherry Wine.
rw "SP* D " tth
ortu- I Thirty Boxes Chocolate.
!^I p °r Sale by,
■Xard I N f**l Zreck, Jutii
d filers J funr lr S 9, Sortth Tbird-fireet.
oidmi j Quantity of Branciv
diz, fhc j FIKST Sc 2dproof, * '
tter en j Gin, of 4 tfi proof, in pip-,
igence. I Jamaica Spirit,, 4 th proof, Hhd,
me ar g* H £ rk " « «fes o- 40 dozen each
ondon, j $« s ! umNew, in piftrs and half p , nt ,
S " d ' 6 Hazleh,* f' b °" tS ' difierer,' i^ e j
w£; f 't
>evml Coppcca, /
• The I White Lead r »n s»hd«
ill, was I & 'panilh Brown J
• 3d of I For S%Je by
Yorlf, hnw Y 4 p £T3R BLIGHT.
I J rinted Calicoes.
7 - "iiV E v R ' Jun - &Co
no. 8 Cbcfnut-Stree-t,
need, J March 6•
n"ts Erflclnc s V iew of the War.
with I ■ ■■
moll n DH 7 " ' PU BtISHED,
prop- 7 BER J CAMfBELL &Co
dby I 4 ro ; Second street,
>L— j A VlC ™ °f th eCaufes and Confequen
on ce l ofthep re fent War with France
>piiy I jfe , I h . eHonorable Thomas Er sk , Ne .
ance I §
weft j >v r, r
a OBE SOLD,
avail nI Tn V AXp bl4 r hr ," ft ° ry Brick Hous e i
m s
™'J J f... en Lougeaiiey,
noft I m dfpth, the adjoining lot is about ofi s ec t
ung If on Lod-e alley, and 42 feet on GoforS!
was cirtf'" t l! ,Vh '- Ch ' C^ S from Chrfnut-
Ibv " " S«lley into Dock-ilrcst ait>-
y I horse market. The hm.fe eonfift, of
_ rooms - with fix fire places, two dS
■S looms, one of rhem 'forty feet in length tl
Sf, *• <**■*« '•«" «i SS
two hreplacM, t a-nd a hr»e H°
om chen, witn exter.five cellars under, .-.r.d K arrets
over the who e, a privilege of a v a , f nt £ t
of grotindto the eaftwaro between this iWe
an ! the bank, a pump of excellent water in the
yard, a lfendfoipe piazza fronting the vacant
p'V an J * rime H able and dwelling house on
>°forrfi-ftreet. The premises now rent for
- s&zr*- ■*>"*****'*%
l-'°r terms apply t0 John
- AJr '--° 3awtf
ge Lanca/te r> Harrijburgh Car lift e
b o.ppenjburg and Sunbur}
STAGES.
3e public are to take notice that
i(i art l k P artncrft 'p which has fsr some time' fub
ic M#thUs , s !rs h ° f LanX "n4
I- ~ '"T 1 ? eet ' " dissolved . b-«, not » s M
Slough mfinuatesto the public without iuft cL&.
U ,>a W f'L m M C i, Ully K ! ' ?tar Won
ft g '? W " Geer - the 39 th
e ™ „ ft ' V"" ° f w!lich ' 9 Bot no « deers
ed nectary. Any gentleman who wishes to be
e STtaS| inf>rmed of merits o£
e and f tht ay can a be
e at full liberty to detc»m,ne, whether cr -ot W
' frlTtoln 0 ' r '? juftifiaWe in "tachibg him-'
o frlfto any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance (rem Philadelphia to SKippenf!
t ur £' or other place.
B Now from theliberal and jjenerou, f uppo rt the
> public were pleased to confer on the firil effort in
> |*'s bufinef', «illiam Geer, in conjunction with
, Mem-s. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
. to prosecute and carry it on, with every care' «.
tcntion anddiipatch that a zeal to ibliVe the aub
he can possibly exert. U " a stne pub-
The above company, who are amply P r av idcd
wnh carnages horfrs, and every appurtenance to
th"f r thE p if Ke " nd
thofr wnawift to patronize and encourage th™
undertaking., that they can take their l'eats nt
George Weed s, the sign of the White Ki,rfs
btr " et ' Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, t8 proceed to Lancaster, Hartiibur/
eft b'liflied d Shli>penfl>ur S' T^e fa " at hitherto
For the further accomm»dation ot the nubile
a Stage Will start from
ot Samuel Elder, m Marrifburg, arrivi at Sun!
bury in Northumberland county, every Thurfdav
and return irom teeo'ce and arrive at HarrifburJ
cwety Saturdoy, l 0 tliat palmers destined foi
days"" ° r phllajel i >ll ' a ' mi Y proceed oil Mor.-
WILLIAM GEER,
Larcaller, Jan. 17, 1797.
h B 'Jf!" Jj " c 6f ?«»» f-arts from the
house »f William Perroc, ,n Lancalfer. on every
1 udday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, Vro
ceeduig to the weftwnfd; and from the houfj 0 f
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrrfburg every Wedcef
day morning, oa the fame evening arrives at Pa.
trick Cochran's in Shippen(burg ; and returns
frem thence on every Tharfday : performing the
lame eontinc daity as in i; s tour from Philadel
p m wfProposals |w^i
For carrying MA IL Sos the
United States on the following Tue:
Pojl Roads, will be received "Ji
at the General Pofl-Qjjice, in ' J
Philadelphia, until the %\JI mrrt
„,C r , • 7 r
day uj July nesit) inclujtvs. l
arri^
MAINE. da y
1. Iroin Biker's or Scoodi**- by Machias, Chan- er y
dltr's river and ttoiumbia, to Narraguagus once a by S
V. c.k. ' L .^
Leave Brewer's every Saturday at 2 P M, and 0 A
arrive at Narraguagus the next l'uefday at 6p. 2
M—Returning, leave Narraguagus every Wednef- ver >
day at Sa m, and arrive at Erewcr's thtnext Sa- I Jtri
tutday by 10 A M. wc '
2. From Narraguagusby Gouldfborough, Suili- '
van,'frcnton, Blueliill, Culline, Penobfcot, Bucks- at S
ton. Frankfort, Prospect and to I'ytk- nex
Traji once a week. ' v -'
L'.ave NarraguaiUS every Wednesday fcy 6 a Tu.
m, and arrive at Duck Trap the next Saturday by If
10 am. Returning. Leave Duett Trap every Sa- 2
turday by 1r u and arrive at Nirraguagus the Ho
next Tuesday by 4 pm, 1
3. From Duck Trap by Camden, Tl omafton, arri
Warren, Waldoborough, Newcastle, Wil'calfet, i"g
Bath, Brunfwick, Fre; port and North Yarmout, arri
to Portland oncea week.
Leave DuekTrap every Saturday by 2 pm, and and
arrive at Portland the next Tuesday by 6p m. Jit- f
turning. Leave Portland every Wednesday by 6 r'nrt
a M,'an<l arriv at Duck Trap the next Saturday by i-es
10 a M. ,'| arr '
1 From Portbhd by Biddeford, Wellea and . 2
York, to l'ortfm»uth. ' iur
April i<: to Oflolcr 15. Leave Portland every Am
M .nday, Wednesday ai/d Friday by 6a m, and ar- I
rive i. Portsmouth the fame days by 6p m. Return- arr
i.eave rmtfmouth every Monday, Wedtief- tun
day and Friday at 9r m , and arrive at Portland on arr:
the fiext day by 6p m. { t
OHober is to Jpril 15. Leave Portland every Ra
Monday ar.d Thursday at 6 a m, and arrive at, j
Portsmouth 011 Tuesday and Friday by 10 am. Rc- m 8
turning. Leave Portsmouth every Tuesday and ; Tj
Friday at 1 pm, and arrive at Portland every f or
Wednesday and Saturday at 5 f m ! evc
5. From Portland by North-Yarmouth,. Free- arr
port, Brunfwick, Bath, Wifcaffet, Dresden, Pittf
ton and Hillowell Hook to Hallowcll court house, j
once a week. ry
Leave Portland every Friday at 8 A. M,and ar- ] t(ir
t'vc at Kallowell court-house the next Saturday by t(
7 PM. Returning. Leave Hallowfll ccurt-houte Bc
every Wednesday by 5 A M, and arrive at Port- art
land on TliurfdAy by 6 P M. Tu
6. FromWifcaffet by Dresden, Pittfton, Hallo-
W-ll Hook, Hallowell court-house, Winthrop,
Mop.moi.th. Green, New-Gloucester and Gray to ™
Portland once a-week .
Leave Portland every Monday by 6 A M, and
arrive st Wifeaflet on Wednrfday noon. .Return- e
ing. Leave Wifcaffet on Wednesday at <| P M,and n
arrive'at Portland on Friday by 6 P M.
7. From Hallowell Hook by VafTalboroogh, 101
Fort Halifai, Winflow, Fairfield and Canaan te
Norridgewok once a Week- * ,
Leave Hallowell Hook every Wednesday at 11
AM, and arrive at Noriidgewock on Thurlday 01
by 6P M. Returning. Leave Norndgewock on
Monday at 2P M, and arrive fit Hallowell Hook w;
-oh I'iKiciay by 6 P M.
8- I rom Hallow ell Hook to Farmington on S*n- an
dy river oi ce in (wo weekv r 1
Leave Hallowell Hook every other Wednesday
by 8 AM, and arrive at Furmir.pton by 6 P M. fie
■Returning. I.eave Farmington every other Thurf- v><
day at 8A M, and at Hallowell Hook by 6 tit
PM.
9. From Portland by Falmouth, Gorham, Bux
ton. Staridiih', Limerick, Parfonfield, Shapleigh r /
and Lebanon to Berwick, once in two weeks. ar
LeaV' Portland every other Monday at 8A M, os
and arrive at Berwick on Wednsfday by roqn.
Leave Berwick every other Wednesday at 2 P J'
M, andarrive at Portland on Friday by 6 P.M. f°
10. From Standilh by Flinftown, Fryburgaea
dem^,Conway and Tamworth to Sandwich in New j*.
once in two wcekr.
Leave Standilh every other Tuesday ky 8 AM, f '
and arriveat Sandwich on Wednesday by 6PM. Re- ;
turning. Leave Sandwich every other Thursday at
8 AM, and arrive at Standilh on Friday by 6 da
PM.
11. From Wells by Waterboro', Sanford, Dough- Ti
ty's Falls, Berwick andDover,to Portsmouth once r i
a week. L
Leave Wells every Tu fday by 6 AM, and ar- da
rive at JPertfmou thert Wednesday by 10 A M. Re- ar
turning. Leave Sortfmouth every Wednesday by ar
aP M, and at Wells next Thursday by i ar
P M. Y
——— A
NEW-HAMPSHIRE. N
12. From Portsmouth by Dover, Rocheftcr and
Mou'.toflboroUgh to Plymouth, returning by New- Sj
Hampton, Meredith, Gilmintown, Nottingham j.
and Durham, to ?°ortimouth once in two weeks.
Leave Portftnouth cv .ry other Wednesday by 8
AM, and arriveat Plymouth the next Friday by 6 ai
PM. Returning.. Receive the m;iil at Plymouth
evey other Saturday by 8 A M, and return to ft
Porrtfmouth the next Tuesday by 4 P M. ' n
Nate. " The poll is to go and return on this route ar
alternately."
13- From Portsmouth by Exeter, Chester, Lon- w
donderry, Amherft-, Peterborough and Marlbo
rough to Keene, once a week. at
Leave portsmouth every Thursday by 8 A M, e ,
arrive at Exeter by one P M, at Chtfter by 6 P M,
a&.d at Keene on Saturday by 4 P M Returning.
Leave JCeene every Monday by 8 A M, ajrive at
Chester on Tuesday by 4 P M, at Exeter on Wed
nesday by 9 AM, and at Portsmouth by 4 P M.
14. From Concord by Plj msuth to Haverhill,
once a wee^.
Leave Concord every Monday by 6A M, arrive a '
at Plymouth on Tuesday by 3 PM, and at Haver- n(
hill on Wednesday by 4 PM. Returning. Leave
Haverhill every Thursday by 8 A M, arrive at aI
Plymouth on Friday by 9A M, and at Concord on tc
Saturday by 4 P M.
15. From Exeter to Hampton Falls, three times '
a week from April >5 to October 15, and twice a 1
week from Oitober 15 to April ij. *
Leave Hampton falls in one hour after the arriv
ai after the arrival of the mail from Boston, and
deliver it at Exeter in two hours, remain at Exetsr *
two hours and return to Hampton Falls in fix
hourtfrom t'n«time of leaving it. f
MASSACHUSETTS.
16. From Newburyport, Haverhill, Kings.on,
Exeter, New Market »nd; Durham to Dover once r .
a week. J
Leave Newburyport every Monday by 10 A M, h
arrive at Dover on Wednesday by noon. Return-
in<r. Leave Dover on Wednesday by 3 P M, and
arriveat Newburyport on Friday by 3 P M.
17. From Salem to Gloucester once a week. u
Leave Gloucester every Wednesday by 7 A M, T
and arrivii at Sa.lem by uA M. Returning. Leave h
Sajem every Wednesday by 1P M, and arrive at a
Gloucester bj' 6 P M.. d
Nate. Should this mail be carried in a stage it Is
to be. carried a 4 ofteil as the stage runs, the hours '<
delired to be lUted in the propofais. P
18. From Salem to Marblehead three times a
week. Leave' Satan every Monday, Wednesday, ,
and Friday immediately after the arrival of the n
Biait from Bolton. and deliver it at Marblehead in rf
one hour'and an half, leave Marblehead in one m
hour and a half and return to Salem in two hours. F
19 From Boston, by Andover, Haverhill and pi
CWW to Concord in sew once a !
week. _ a
Leave Concord every Monday by 6 A M,arrive
at- Chester by 1P M, and Arrive at liufton on I
Tuesday by 4 P M. Returning. Leave Boston ev
ery Friday by 9A M, arrive at Chester on Saturday *
by 11 A M, and arrive at Concord on Saturday by
6 PM. j
20. From Boston by Concord, Lancaster, Leo
mircfter and Alhburnhani to Marlborough, Keene
and Walpole in New Hampfhirc.
I.eave /-eominftcr every Thursday by 6A M, .
arrive at Keenefcy 9P M, and it Walpole on Fri- '
day by 10 AM- Returning. Liiva Walpole ev 1
ery Saturday or Sunday by 5 A VI, arrive a Keene
by 9A M, and at Zeominfter ifc the evening, j
Leave /.cuminiter every Monday and Thursday by |
6 A M, and arrive at Bolton by 6 P M. ]
21. From Boston 6y Qaincy, Hingham, Hano
ver, Plymouth, Sandwich, Bailable, Yarmouth,
Dennis, Harwich and Chatham to Truroontea s
week. '
I.cave Boston every Thursday by 3p m, arrive 1
at Sandwich »u Friday by 6p M,and atTruro the
next Sunday by 6a m. Returning. Z-eavelruro 1
every Monday by 8 am, arrive at Sandwich on
Tu.l'daj by 7P m, and at B jfton on Thursday by 1
10 A M.
22. From Sandwich by Falmouth and Holmes
Ho'e to Edgarton once a weeek.
Leave Sandwich every Saturday by 1 r m, and
arrive at Edgarton on Monday by 11 am. Return
ing Leave Edgarton on Monday by 2 r m, and
arrive at Sandwch on Tuesday by noon
aj. From Boston by Sharon, Mansfield, Norton
and Taunton to Newport oncea week.
Leave Boston eVery Monday by 6 am, and ar
rive -at Newport ky 6 p M, on Tuesday. Returning
Leave Newport every Wednesday by 8 a m, and
arrive at Boston on I hurfday by 6 pm.
1 , 14. From Softon by .Charleston, Medford, Wo
; burn, Billerica, Chelmsford and Tyngboroegh to
Amberft once a week.
Leave Boston every Thursday by 10 am, an»
arrive at Amhtrft the next Saturday noon. Re
turning. Leave Amherft every Monday noon, and
arrive at Boston on We<Jnefday by 3 p M ■
i »5. Prom Boston by Randolph, Bridgewater,
Raynham and Taunton to New Bedford.
L From May Ito November 1. Leave Boston every
Monday, wednesday and Friday at 10 r m, arrive at
TauAton the next day by 11 a M.and at New Bed-,
j ford by 8 p m. Returning. Leave New Bedford
ever 1 ) Sunday, Tuesday and Thursday by 10 r m,
j arrive at Taunton the next day by 11 A M, and at
Boston by 8 r m.
From November Ito May 1. Leave Boston eve ■
ry wednesday and Friday at 9 A m, arrive at Taun
ton by 8 p m, and at New J-'dford on Thursday &
Satnr lay by 8 r m.* Returning. Leave New
Bedford every Monday and wednesday by 9 a m.
arrive at Taunton by 8 p m, and at Boston on
Tuesday and a hurfday by 7 p m.
26. Frbm New Bedford to Nantucket, twice-a
week from Novembtr 1 to May I. Leavj: New
Bedford every Friday and Monday by 6 a m, ar
rive at Nantucket in the evening. Leave Nantuc
ket every Saturday atjd Tutfday by 10 a m, and j
! arrive at New Bedford in the eveniug.
From May Ito November r. Leave New Bed- j
ford every Monday, wednesday and Friday by 10
' a m, and arrive at Nantucket in the evening. Re
turning. Leave Nah-uckct every Tue day, Thurs
day and Saturday at 8 a 19, and arrive at New bed
ford in the evening, winds and tide permitting.
27. From Taunton ky Dighton and Semerfetio
warren oncea week.
Leave Taunton every wednesday by j a m, and
■ arrive at warren by 10 A M. Leave warren by I
p m, and arrive at Taunton by 6 p m.
28. Frotn Boston byDedhahi,Providence,Plain
field, Norwich, New London, Saybrook, Killing
■ worth, Guilford New Havrfn to New* York
1 turee times a week.
From way t to November I. Leave Boston ev?-
, ry Tflefday, Thursday afid Saturday by to a m,
arrive at Providence by 6 r M, arrive at Norwich
on wednesday, Friday and Monday by noon, at
New London by 3 p m, arrive at New Haven on
1 Thursday, Saturday and Tuesday by noon, at Stan
ford by 9 p m, and ?t New York on Friday, Mon
dayand wednesday by noon. Returning. Leave
r New York every Tuesday, Thursday and SattiVday
by 10 a m, nrr've at New Haven on wednesday,
Friday and Monday by "a p m, at Norwich on
.Thursday, Saturday and Tuesday by n»on, at Pro
t videnceby 8p m, and at Boston on Friday, Mon
j day and wednesday by Ip m.
November Ito May I. Leave Boston every
- Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday by 9 a M, ar
: rive at providence the next days by 9am, at New
London every Thursday, Saturday and Tuef
- ' day by noon, at New Haven on Friday, Monday
- and wednesday by 3rm, at Stratford by I r m,
f and arrive at New York on Monday, wednesday
S and Friday by II am. Returning. Leave New
York every Saturday, Tuesday and Thursday by It
a m, arrive at Stratford the next day» by 8 p m, at
New Haven on Tuesday,' Thursday and Saturday
•by 9 a m, at New London on wednesday, Friday
and Monday by 3 ? m, at providence, Thursday,
Saturday and Tuesday by 4 p- m, at Boston on Fri
-1 day, Monday and wednesday by 3r m.
8 29. From Boston by Dedham, Mendon, pomfi'et
5 and Tolland to Hartford once a week.
I, Leave Boston every Thursday by 7a m, strive
0 at Hartford the next Saturday by 6 pm. Return
ing. Leave Hartford every Monday by 8 A M,
e and arrive at Boston on wednesday by J rm.
30. From New Bedford to Newport once a
• week.
Leave New Bedford every Tliurfday by 6 a mj
and arrive at Newportby 4r m. Leave Newport
' every Friday by 8 am, and arrive at New BedforJ
1 by 5 PM. 1 j
31. From Worcofter by Rutland, Peterlham and
1 Northfield to Brattleborough once a week.
Leave worctfter every Tuesday by I r m. and
arrive at Brattleborough on wednesday by 6 t m.
' Returning. Leave Brattleborough every Thurs
day by 6 A M, and arrive at worcester on Friday
noon.
32. From Breokfield by Belchertown, North
j ampton, worthington.pittsfield and New Lebanon
n to Albany
Leave Brookficld every Tuesday and Friday by
9 AM, arrive at Northampton by 6p m. Leave
'* Northampton every wednesday at 5
a am, arrive at pittsfield by I P M, and at Albany
on Thursday and Monday by 7 r m. Returlliug
j Leave Albany every wednesday and Saturday at 5
a Mgarrive at pittsfield by 5 r m, at Northamp
lr ton on Thursday and Monday by 7 p m, and ar-
X rive at Brookficld on Friday and Tuesday by 4
PM. ' 4 *
33. From Springfield by Weftfield ind Stock
bridge to KinderhOok onco a week.
'■ May Ito November I. Leave Springfield eve
;e ry Tuesday by 3 pM, arrive at Kinderheok en
Thursday.by 6PM. Returning. Leave Kinder
'> hook every Friday by 9 a m, arrive a/ stock
bridge by 3p m. Leavt Stockbridge on Monday
d . by 6 nm, and arrive at Springfield by 7 »m,
November I to May I. Leave Springfield every
wednesday at 6 a m, and arrive atKinderhook on
I, Thursday by 1p m. Returning. Leave Kinder
■a hook on Tburfday by 4r m, arrive at Stockbridge
it on Friday noon Leave Stockbridge every Tues
day at 6 a m, and arrive at Springfield by 7 pm.
Is 34. From Suffield by Weft Spiinglield.Northamp.
■ s (00, Greenfield, Brattleborough, Weftminftfcr, Wal
pol'-, Charleftown and Windfoi to Hauover twice a
week,.
a Lcjvc Suffield every Tuesday and Fridav at am,
'• riiveat Noitfcamptonby j r m,at Walpoleon V. Ed-
e * nefday and Saiurday by ip M, at Windier on Mon
n day and 'i bur day by a rm, and at Hanover by 7 r
0 M Returning. Leave IVuiover, every Tuesday and
>. Fiiday by 6 a m.arrive at Wir.dfot by 1 PM.atWal
d poJc cn Wednesday and Saturday by 7p m, and a.
NorrtiatiVpton on f.tonday and ThtxrTday by noon,and a
ai SulHeld by 7 P M. 5
35 From Hanover by Oxfoid and Haverhill to
Newbury one a week. i
Leave Hanover every wednesday by 6 a M, arrive
at Haverhill by 4P M, and at Newbury by 5P M. a
Returning. Leave Newbury every Thursday by 6 A ]
M, arrive at Haverhill by 8A M, and at Haverhill by a
6PM
V('RMk NT:
36' From Windsor Royalfton, Randolph, Will - 1
iamfton and Montpeiier to Burlington once in two
weeks. ;
Leave Windsor every other bv 6 AM,
and arrive at Burlington the next Saturday by 6P M. <
Returning. Leave Burlington every other Thursday
by 6A M, and arrive at Windsor on Wednesday o
P M.
37. From Windsor to Riitland once a week. '
Leave Rutland every MoAday by 7A M and arrive '
at Wiudfor on Thursday by 6P M. Returning.
Leave Windsor every Wednesday by 6 A M, and ar.
rive at Rutland 00 Thursday hy 6 p m.
38. From Burflington by Vergennes and Middle
bury to R.utlai»d onae a week.
Leave Burliogtoli every Thursday by 8 a m, and
arrive at Rutland on Saturday by 6h m. Returning. '
Leave Rutland every Monday by 8 a m. and arrive at
Burlington on Wednesday noon.
39. From Rutland by Mnnchefter, Bennington,
Lanfingburg and Troy to Albany.
Leave Rutland every Monday at 8 a m, and arrive
at Albany the next Wednesday by 6p m* Return
ing. Leave Albany every Thursday by 8a m, and
ariive at Bennington by 7 pm* Leave Bennington
on Friday by 8 a m, and arrive at Rutland on Satur
day by 7 'p m
rhode-isLand.
40. From Providence by Briflol and ./arrcn to
Newport;
Leave Providence every Monday, Wednesday
Friday by 7 a m, and arrive at Newport the fanje
days bv 5 PM. Returning. Leave Newport every
Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday by 8 am, and ar
rive at Providence by 4 p m.
41. From Providence by East Greenwich, New
port, South Kingston, Westerly and Stonington Point
to New jLondon once a week.
Leave Providence r very Tuesday by 8 a w, and
arrive at Newpprt by 6 pm, leave Newport every
Wednesday by 6 am, and arrive at New London on
Thursday by noon. Returning. Leave New Lon
don on Thursday by 3 p m, and arrive ar Newport on
Friday by 6 p m, leave Newport on Monday by 7 a
m, and ariive at Providence by 5 p m.
CONNECTICUT.
42. From Hartfotd by Windham to Norwich
onrr a week.
Leave Hartford every Tuesday by 6 a m, and ar
rive at Norwich by 7 rm. Returning. Leave Nor
wich every Monday by 6 a m, and arrive at HartfoTd
by 7 p m.
43. From Hartford by Middletown, Modus Land
ing and, Colcheller to New-London, oncea week.
Leave Hartford every Tuesday at t p m, and arrive
at New London on Wednesday by n ? m. .Return
ing. Leave New London every Thursday by 11 a
; m, and arrive at Hartford on Eriday by 7 t m.
I 44. From Hartford by Ntfw Hartford, Canaan,
Sheffield and Hillfdale to Hudson once a week
i Leave Hartford cveiy Monday at ap m, and arrive
at Hudion on Wednesday bv 11 am. Returning.
1 Leave HOtdfon every Wednesday at a r m, and ariive
at Hartford on Friday by 11 am.
45. From Hartfoid by Litchfield, New \ljlford.
Newtown, Danbury and Ridgefiejd to New York
once a week.
Leave HartfortJ every Monday by 10 a m, arrive as
Litchfifld by 7 p m, at New Milford on,Tuefday by
it am, and at New York on Thursday bv 8 a ty.
j Retumrng. LeaW New York every Thursday by 4
' p m, arrive at New Milford on Saturday noon, at
Litchfield by 7 p m, and at Hartford on Monday by
8 a M.
46. Froin New-Haven by Derby, Southbury,
Woodbury', Bethlem, Litchfield ind Gofhen, to Ca
naan, once a week.
Leave Canaan Monday noon, arrive at Litch
-1 field by 7p m, and at New Htven on Wednesday by
10 Kjt. Leave New Haven every Wednesday by 2
r m,' arrive at Litchfield on' Thursday noon, and at
Canaan by 7 p m.
47 From New York by White Plains, Bedford,
Fredericktown, Dover, Shar n, Sheffield, Great
Birrington, Stockbridge, Pittsfield and Williamfton
to Bennington
Leave New York every Monday, Wednesday and
\ Friday at, 5A M, the next Wednesday, Friday and
Monday at 6 PM. Returning. Leave Bennington
[ every Thursday, Saturday and Tuefday'by 5 AM,
and arrive at New York the next Saturday, Tuesday
and Thursday by 6 P M.
r If the stage* run but once a week on this
■ mail is to leave New York every Monday at 5 AM,
arrive at Bennington on Wednesday by 6 P M. Leave
Bennington on Thursday by 5 A M, and arrive at
r New Yorjc on Saturday by 6P M.
48. From New York by Yonkers,Peekfkill, Fish
' kill, Poughkeepfie, Rhinebeck, Clermont,
r Hudson, Claverac and Kinderhobk to Albany three
. times a week.
' Leave New York every Monday Wednefdav and
Friday by a P M, arrive at Tarrytown by 8 PM.
r Leave Tarrytown every Tuesday, Thursday and Sa
' turday at 5 AM, arrive at Poughkeepfie by 7 PM.
* Leave Poughkeepfie Wednesday, Friday and Sunday
* by 5A M, arrive at lOnderhook by 7 P M. Leave
Kinderhook every Thursday, Saturday and Monday,
t N at 5A M, and arrive at Albany by 8A M. Return
ing. Leave Albany Thurlday, Saturday and Mon
: day by 3 P M, arrive at Kinderhook by 7 P M.
Leave Kinderhook Friday, Sunday and Tuesday, at
5 am, arrive at Poughkeepfie by 7 V m. Leave
* Poughkeepfie Saturday, Monday and Wednesday, at
5 a m, arrive at Tarrv/own by 7 p m. Tarry
-1 town every Snnsav, Tuesday and Thursday, at 5 a
m, arrive at New Vork at u a m.
, 49. From Albany by Troy end Lanfiijgburgh, to
t Salem, once a week.
[ Leave Albany every Tuesday at 8 a arrive at
Lanfingbnrgh by 10 a m, and at Salem by 4 p m, Re
* turning. Leave Salem every Monday,, by 8 am, and
at rive at Albany by 5 p m.
50, From Salem by Granville, Fairhaven, Ver
-1 gennes, Bason-Harbour, WiHfboro', Peru and Pitts
burgh, to Champlain-town, once in tWo weeks,
Leave Salem every other Wednefdav by 5 a m, and
f arrivdat Plattfbargh the next Sunday by 5p m. Re
turning. Leave PJattfburgk every other Monday at 8
. am, and arrive at Salem the next Friday by 4p m.
Fort Edward, Whitehall landing and Fairhaven, to
Rutland, in Vermout.
[ Leave Lanfingburgh every Thursday by noon, and
L arrive at Rutland the next Saturday by 6 p m. Re
turning. Leave Rutland every Monday by noon,
' and arrive at Lanfingburgh on thursday by 10 AM.
52. From Albany by Schcneftady, Tripes Hill,
5 Conajohariy, German Flatts, Old Fort Schuvlfr aiM
" Whitestowh to Rome. The tines dejirei to tejlateiiu
- the profofatf.
4 53. From Scheneftady by Balltown Spring! and
Glenfbridge to Sandy Hill once a week.
Leave Scheneftady every Tuesday by 6 A m. and
arrive at Sandy Hill t>y 4!• M. Leave Sandy Hill on
Wednesday by 6 am, and arrive at Scheneftady by
4 PM,
n 54. From Tripelhill/o Johqfton once a week.
Leave TripefhiU in one hour after the mail arrives
" from Albany on Tuefd.y, arrive at Johnllon in two
Y houts, flay at Johnfton two hours, and return to
Tripeflii'.l in two hours,
y 55 . From Cfinajoharry by Cherry Valley to Coo
n pcrftown twice a week.
Leave Conajoharry every Wednesday and Saturday
e at 6 a m, and arrive at Cooperftown by,2 fM.
. Leave Cooperftown every Tuesday and Friday by 10
A M, and arrive at Conajoharry by 6 r m.
56. From Cooperftown by Butternutjand Oxford
to Union once in two weeks,
a Leave Union every other Monday by 10 am, and
arrive at Cooperftown on Wednesday by 5 PM. Re
turning. £eave Coopeiflown every other Thursday
by 6 a m, and arrive at Union on Saturday by 3 r m.
y,. From Old Fort Schuyler by Ctncinhatiu to
r Oxtpid Academy once in two weeks.
i Leave Old Fort Schuyler every Uher Thursday by
. 6 am, and arrive at Oxford on Fnday noon. Re.
turning. Lsave Oxford every other Fnday by 2 e
and arrive at (3ld tort Schuv'er on 7P. 3
M. ' ; ' b
58. From Rome by to JtoUcrdam once
in two weeks.
Z.eave Rome every other Thursday bj> 10 AM, and
arrive at Rotterdam by 6 PM. Returning. Leave
Rotterdam every other Friday by g A M, and arrive
at Rome by 6 P M. ,
59; From Rome by Oaeida, Onondaigua, Scipio
and Geneva to Kafiandaigua once a week
/.pave Rome every Thursday by 10 AM, and ar- £
rive at Kanandaigua every Monday by 10 A M,. C
Leave Kanandaigua every Monday by 10 A M, and 1
arrive at Rome the next Thursday by 8 A M. a:
60. From Kanandaigua l>y Hartford to Niagara
once in two,weeks. P
Leave Kanandaigua every other other Monday by 10
AM, and arrive at Niagara the next Wqdnefday by 7 w
PM. Returning. Leave Niagara every otherFFr- t ,
da)> by 6 A M, and arrive at Kanandaigua the next
Monday by 6 A M.
61. From Rhinebeck by Kingston, Shawangunk,
Wardlbridge, Goshen, Hamburg, Newtown, John
fonfburg and Hope, to Eafton, once a week. _
LeaveJuQon every Thursday by-jp PM, and arrive .
at Rhinebeck thenext Sunday by 5? M. Returning. 1
Leave Rhinebeck eyery.Monday by 8A M, and.arrive A
ar Eafton en Thursday by JO A M.
6a. From New York by Ha< kenfack, Paramus, G
New jVntrim and- Chester to Golbea once a week.
Leave New York every Friday at 7 AM, and ar- a
rive at Go(hen on Saturday by 6P M. Returning. (
Leave Gofhen.every Tuesday at 6 A M, and arrive at
New York on Wednesday by 6 PM. I
63. From Fifhkillby Newburgand New Wind for
to Gofhen once a week. <
Leave. every Wednesday by 7 AM, arid 1
arrive at Gofhen by 5 P M, leave Gofhen every (
Tuesday at 7A M, and arrive at Fifhkiil by 5P M. <
64. From New York by Jamaica, Huntington,
Smithtown, Brookhaven, Suffolk, Southampton Sc ;
Br idgehampton to Sagharbour once a week. i
Leave New fork every Jhurfday at 10 A M, and
arrive at Sagharbour the next Saturday by 6 P M.
Leave Sagharbour every Monday at 8 A M, and ar
rive at New York on Wednesday by. 5 P'M.
NEW-JERSEY.
65. From Woodbridge to Am boy three times a
week;
I rave Wood bridge every Monday, Wednesday &
Friday at 8 A M, and arrive at Amboy bv 9 A
Leave Amboy as Aoon and arrive at Wooabridge by
1 P M.
66 From Trenton by AllentOwn, Monmouth
court-hopfe, Shrewsbury, Middjetown Point, Spotf
wood, New Brunfwick,Somerfet, New Germanton,
Pittfton and Flemington to Trenton once a week.
Leave Trentou every Tuesday by 10 A M, and re
tain to Trenton the next Tuesday by 6 A M.
67. From Philadelphia by Taunton and Acfton to
Tucker ton ooce i n two weeks.
Leave. Philadelphia every other Wednesday by 3
P M, arrive at Tuckerron on Tharfday by 6 P M.
Leave Tyckcrton every other Tuesday by 6 A M, and
arrive at Philadelphia on Wednesday hy 9 A M.
68. From Philadelphia.by Woodbury, Swedcfbo
rough, Woodftown and Salem to Bridgetown once a
week.
Leave Philadelphia Wednefday afternoon by
3 o'clock, and arrive at Bridgetown on Friday by a
PM. Leave Bridgetownou Saturday itß AM, and
arrive at Philadelphia on Wednesday at 9 A M.
69- From Philadelphia by jenkintoWn, Plumftead
and Pipers by Bethlehem to Eafton once a wqek.
Leave Philadelphia every Wednesday bv lo A M,
and arrive at Eafton on Thursday by 2P M. Return
ing. Leave Eafton every Monday at 9 A M, and ar
rive at Philadelphia on Tuesday by 3 P M.
70. From Plumftead by Pipers and Alexandria to
Pittfton oncea week.
Leave Plumftead every Thursday by 5 A M, arrive
at Pittftou by 11 A M. Lea*: Pittfton by 1 P M,
and arrive at Plumftead by 7 P M.
71. From Eafton to Wilkefbarre once a week.
Leave Eafton every Thursday by 3 P M, and arrive
at Wilkefbarre on Saturday noon. Returning. Leave
Wiikefbarrre every Tuesday noon, and artive at Ea
, fton every Thursday by noon.
72. From Philadelphia by Norriftown, Trap,
Pottfgrove, Reading, Lebanon and Hacrifburg to
Carlisle.' /
O&ober 1510 April 15. Leave Philadelphia every
Tuefdav and Thursday at sunset, arrive at Reading
every Thursday and Saturday at 4 PM N Leave Read
ing every Friday a* 8 AM, arrive at Carlisle every
, Sunday by 11 AM. Returning Leave Carlisle eve
c ry Sunday by 2P M, arrive at Reading on Tuesday
1 by 4 P M, !eave Reading every Wednesday aud
Monday by 8 A M. and arrive at Philadelphia on
[ Thursday and Tuesday by 4P M.
I April 15, to Q&obcr 15. Leave Philadelphia eve
-1 ry Wednesday and Friday at 8A M, arrive as Read
, ing on Thursday and Saturday by |i, AM. Leave
r Reading every Thursday noon, and*riive,at Carlisle
thenext Saturday by it A M. Returning. Leave
; Carlisle every Monday noon, arrive at Reading on
, Tuesday by 7P M. Leave Reading every Wednef
: day and Monday at 8A M, add arrive at Philadel
t phiaon Thursday and Tuesday by 9A M
73. From Reading by Hamburg* Sunbury and
Northumberland to Louifburgonce a week.
, Leave Reading every Eriday at 6 A M, and arrive
at Louifburg on Monday by to A M. Returning.
Leave Louifburg every Tuesday noon, and arrive at
1 Reading on Thursday bv 4P M.
74. From Harrifburg by Peter (burg, Mi.'lerftown,
- Thompioniown, Mifflin town, Louiftown, Hunting- i
. don, Alexandria, Centre Furnace, Belle Fount, Milel- ,
j burg, Aaronlburg, Mifflinburg, Louifburg, Nor* hum -
e berland, Sunbury and Halifax to, Harrifburg once in 1
, two weeks.
Leave Hairifburg every Saturday by 6 A M, wait
ing at each pod-office which lhall be eftablithed on
the route, two houra, and return again to Harrifburg
t the'next Monday by 8A M.
e 75, from Somerset by Cannellfville once
t a week.
Leave Somerlet every Thursday b} 5 A, M. arrive
1 at Union by 4P. M. Leave Union every Friday bv
8 A.M. and arrive at Somerset by 7 p. M.
3 76. From Pittfburg by Cannonfburg, Wafhragton,
Weft Liberty and Wheeling, to the mouth ot Ftfh-.
t injr Crrek, once a werk.
Leav« Pittfburg every Friday by noon, and arrive j
i at Fifbing Creek on Sunday by 9A M. Returning.
Fifhing Creek every Wednesday bv 4PM,!
- and arrive at Pirtlburgthe Friday by 10 AM.
77. From Preston by Washington to Cincinnati-i
a week,
1 Leave Preston every Friday at noon, arrive atWafh
- ington by 8 P M,# and at Cincinnati thenext Monday
1 noon. Returning. Leave Cincinnati every Tuesday
at 6 /JM, and arrive at Wafbington on Wednesday
, by 5P M. Leave Wafliington at 9P M, and arrive
j at I'refton oi\ Friday by w\ AM.
From Pcterfbjrg by City Point to Bermuda Hund
l red, three times a week.
Leave Pct«.-rfburg every Monday,' WedneCdav and
, Jriday by 6 A M, and arrive at Bermuda Hundred
by AM. Leave Bermuda Hundred by 11 AMi
, add arrive'at Petcifburg by 3 P on the fa me days,
i
78. From Wafliington by Springfield, 1 Bourbon,
I Lexington, Frankfort and Harrodiburg to Danville
once a week,
Leave Washington every Saturday by 8 A M, and
arrive at Danville the .next Monday bv 5P M. Re
y taming. Leave Danville every Tuesday by 8 AM,
and airive at Lexington on Wednesday ooon, afid at
Wafhingt h on Thursday by 6 P M.
s 79: From DanvilU to Leu fviiie by "Beardllown
3 onec in two weeks.
5 Leave Danville every other Tusfday Ijy rioon, ar
rive at Louisville the next Thursday by 3 P
* Returning. Leave Louifvilie> every. otWer Friday by
6 A M, and arrive at Danyille on Satuvday by 6 P M.
y 80. From Danville by Stan.rfofd -and Cumberland
Gap to Moffat's store in once a week.
D Leave Danvilleevery Monday at 2P M, and.arrive
at Mdfftft's store the next Thuri'day by 6 P M. Leave
Moffat's store every Friday by 6 A M, and arrive at
Danville on Monday by 10 A NL
TENNESSEET.
y
81. FiOm Knoxville by South Weft Point and
j Fort Blount and Craig Fort to N<iihville once in two
weeks*
y Leave Knoxville every, other Tuesday lay 8A M,
•- and arriveatl rtafWille the next Monday by 9 AMI.
y Returning, Leave"'PfaihviHeevery o:her MonJay by
3 P M, and arrive at Knoxvlile the nezt Saturday
by 8 P M. i ,
'■
Maryland Ahd Virginiar
82- From Baltimore by Ellkott's Lower Mills,
Montgomery court-house, Ckai*lefburg, Zeefburg,
Middleburg and Warrencon to Culpeper court
house, once a week.
Leave Baltimore every Monday noon, arrive at
Leefburg on Tuesday everting, and at Culpeper
Court Houle the next Thursday noon. Returning.
Zeave Culpeper court-hocfe every Friday noon, and
arrive at 3akimore.the next Monday by 9 A M.
83- From Allen's Fresh by .Ludlow's Ferry to
Port Conway in Virginia.
Zeave AllenV Frern every otner.Monday by 6 a
m, arnd arrive*at Port Conway by 6 PM. Re
turning. leave Port Conway every otner Tues
day by 8 a w, and arrive at Allen's Freth by 7 P M.
84. From Morgantown by Petty John to Clark
fbury in ttoo weeks.
Leave Morgantown every other. Monday by 5 a
M, and arrive at Clarksburg by 5 P M. Return
ing. Lcave Clarksburg every other Tuesday by 8
a M, and arrive at Morgantown by 8 P M.
85. From Todd's to King and. Queen Court H-"
once a week.
Xeave Todd's every ThurfHay by 9 a M, arrive
Queen by II a M. Lc ave King afid 1
Queen at 1 P M, and arrive at Todd's by 6 P M.
86. From Halifax by' Danville to Cafwell court
house once in two weeks.
Leave Halifax court-house every other Tuesday by
2 P M, arrive at Cafwell court-house the next Wed-'
nefday b)6 PM. Returning. Leave Cafwell C.H.
everyotber Thurfdav by 6 A M, and arrive at Halifax
court house on Friday by noon.
87. From Peterfburgh by Suffer count house
and Southampton court house to So«£h Quay, once
in two weeks.
Leave Petersburg every other Wednesday by 6
A M and arrive at South Quay on Thursday by 6
PM* Returning. Leave South Quay every other
Monday by 6 A M and arrive at Petersburg c\n
Tuesday by 3 PM.
NORTH-CAROLINA« Qc
88. From Newbernto Beaufort and Swanfboro/
once in two weeks, the mailt® go alternately.
Lvave New Kern ev«ry other Thursday by 6 A
M» remain at each of the offices two hours, and
return to Newbern the next.
89. From Wilmington by Georgetown to Char
leston, once a week.
Leave Wilmington every Monday by 6AM
and arriv® at Charleston the next Thursday by 10
AM. Leave Charleston every Thursday by 3 P
M and arrive at Wilmington the next Sunday by
5 P M.
90. From Norfolk by Kempfville, Great Bridge
and North Weft River Bridge to Jonefboro', once
in two weeks.
Leave Norfolk every other Wednesday at 9 A
M and arrive at Jonefboro' on Thursday by 7 P M
Returning. Leave Jonefboro* every other Monday
by 10 A M and arrive at Norfolk on Tuefday'by 6
P M.
91. From North Weft River Bridge by New Le
banon to Elizabeth city, once in two weeks.
LeaVe North Weft River Bridge every other
Friday by 6AM add arrive at Elizabeth city by
6 PM. Leave Elizabeth city other Satur
day by 6 A M, and arrive at N. W. river bridge
by 6 p M.
9X. Frojn Salem, N. C. by Bethania, Flower«
Gap Grayfoncourt-houfe and Auftinville toWyths
court-house once in two weeks.
Leave Salem every other Saturday by 6 A M,
and arrive at Wythe c. h. the next MOll. by 6 p M.
Leave Wythe court-house every other Tuesday by
9 A M, and arrive at Salem the next Thursday by
6 PM.
93. From MurfLcefboro' by Sputh Quay toSuffolk.
once a week.
> From Murfreriboro* every Wednesday M,
» arrive at Suffolk by 6P M. Returning. Leave Suf
folk every Tuesday bys A M, and arrive at Murfretf
boro' b)6PM.
; 94. From Fayetteville to Pittfburg once in two
weeks.
Leave Fayetteville every other Wednesday by 6 A
M, aud arrive at Pittfburg on Thursday at 10 A M;
' Leave Pittfburg every other Thursday by 2P M, and ar
i rive at Fayetteville on Friday by 6P M.
GEORGIA AND SOUTH-CAROLINA.
95. From Augusta by Robinson at the White
r Ponds and Gillets mills td Coofahatchy, oi;ce. a
1 week.
: Leave Augusta every Tuesday by 8 A M and iir
-1 rive at Caofahatchy on Wednesday by 7P M. Re
turning. Leave Coofahatcjiy every Sunday at 6 A
M and arrive at Augusta on Monday by 5 P M .
j 96. Frena Georgetown to Rocky Landing in
Georgia, oDce in two weeks.
e Leave Georgetown every other Mouday at 6 A
M, and arrive-at Rocky Landing at 5P M. Re
t turning. Leave Rocky Landing every other Tues
day by 6 A M and arrive at Georgetown by 6 PM.
" NEW JERSEY.
67. From Newtown by Hacketftown, Morriftown
1 and Chatham to Newark, and from Newa. k back by
Chatham, Morriftown, Booneton, Rockaway and
Sparta to Newtown, once a week.
1 Leave Newtown eveiy Thursday by 5 A Mand an
? rive at Wewark on Friday by 10 AM. Leave New*-
ark every Friday by 2 P M, and arrive at Newtown
c oii.Srturday by 6P M.
, Note I. "The Pof Master General may alter the times
of arr 'tvaland departure at any time during the continuance
% of the contracts, he previoufiy fipulating an adequate com
. penfation for any extra expe/tfe that may he occasioned there-,
by.
Note 1. Half an hour fball be allowed for opening
» hitd cloftngtbe Mail at all offices where no particular time
. is fpccifud.
Note 3. For every hour's delay (unavoidable accidents
y excelled) in arriving after the times prescribed in an y con
y tract, the Contractor JhallJorJeit one dollar, and if the de~
y fay continue until the departure of any depending Mail,
e whereby the Mails dcJHned for such depending Mail, lose
a trip, an additional forfeiture of Jive dolors fhatl be
incurred• ,
d Note 4 Neivfyapers as iveltae Letters are to he sent
d in the Mails ; arid if any person making proposals dejtres
i to carry neivfpapers other than tbcrfe conveyed in the mail %
for his own emolument, (ie mufl fate in h:s -proposals for
ivhat sum be will carry it with that erqolumettt and for
what sum ivithont .that taioluvunt,
c Note Sr Shonld any person making proposals desire at}
alteration of the times of arrival and departure above fpo*
cifed, he mufl Gate in his proposals the alterations dthred,
[ an I thejUjfereflfe they wilt make in the terms of his csn
it txaS ' ■
n Note 6. Person s making proposals are defied to fate
their prices by the ye.ir. ibofe who coitrafi u ill reeeive
their pay quarterly. in tb,- months of January, JlpriL
[ V
Note The centrals art to he &■ operation on the fvft
day (f Oflober next, and continue for four years, until
, c the fr,l of Ocitber lßoi—excepting contra&s for thd
e rMes N». 8, 9* 10, 31, 36, 56, 51, J7, Cb, 74,
« 76, 77, 80, Bi, 83, 84. 87, 90, 91, 92, 90
•which are to tzift years vutit tb tji cf
1799.
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
o Pojl-Majler General.
l t General Poft-Qffice, Philadelphia, ?
l! May J7th, 1797- J
y June 1. aawtjji