tf *«States,*» Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
KVMBER 1648.]
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For B R r GOODS.
C Forenoon—Etlvusfd Fox, No. s6,
Mend«,J J mHh Froat-nrrat,
} Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 65
C South Front-ftrett.
f Forenoo!?-—John Connelly, Oi4 City
TliefJayJ . No, 73 fqut'h t'rOnt-ftreet.
Afteruoon—William Shannon, No.
v_ 183 High-street.
IVednefiM { Afternoon—l'ctcr 3enfnn, No. 74
J I Ciuth Third-flrcet. '
Tburfday J For e»oon—Edward Fox.
£ Afternoon—John Connelly.
Friday I Forenoon—William Shannon.
5 Afternoon—John Connelly.
Sttrtrda, Afternoon—Pefer Benfon.
Marshals Sales,
United States, 1 „
Pennsylvania Diftrirt. j
T3Y virtue pfa Writ of venditioni rxponas, issued
of tbrs Cireuit Court ,of the UDited St.ifes,
in and for the Pennsylvania Diltrrd of the Middle'
Circuit, an 1 to (me dialed will be fold at pu lie
Lie at fhi Marshals Office in Race Street No 117
OH Saturday the 30th day of December inft.' at ii
a ! ' ! " or >. digant engraved Copper plates
ol ilukefpeare, one plate of Harmony, Bartolezzi,
one plate of pr udence, do. one plate ot meekncfi.do
<)UC p.ateofbcautv, do. and'one plate ,ef fiarvclt- '
Dome do— Siizeil atii tt(k«n id execution as the j
property of liiiflram Bampfylde Freeman, and I
John Nich'o'fon, Merchant', trading nnier the firm '
«S Freeina.n am* Company, j
And to be fold by
William Nichols, Mar/bal.
- _
December i 3th 1797. j dtf
Myrjkat's Sales.
United States, 1 ..
I'eyr.lylvania Diftcift, j i
virtue of wriis of venditioni exponas, issued
J ou[ f'f the dulrift rgurt of the United Slates, and
*2 ror , wi " bc fsld at P ublic Sa,e « the nter
chart sCoffee.Hou'e, in Second street, on Wednelday
tiei!7th day-os-December inft. at € o'clock in the
cv< runfr, all ih* piece or pitcfl of meido*' cround
iiti4at<', lying arwj being iiuhe townlhioof Paffyuncjc,
and c unity ofPnilidelphia, on the road leading to j
State Iflanri Feriy, containing about fifty-four acres J
three reichcs, whereon arc ereftfd a two ifory
prick Mcffuege, put houses and a barn ; alio one o- *
ther traft 01 piece ol meadow ground, (iiuate in t!;e
jaid town (hip and county, and nearly on the opposite "
tide ofthe faij) roa4'o the laid ferry .containing fix. eena-
CJ e »Atl)reequai;t j ers: alCoameiTuagcortenenn.i.taodlot V
or piece of ground fiiuate 011 the north fide of High
street, between s th and 6th streets, in the city of Phi-
I adalphia, contiinieg in fronton High street, thirty
three feet, and in length or depth two hundred feet,
hounded e»ft by property of Hannah Pembeaon,
north by South alley, wefl by property of William
Bell, and south by High street atorefaid.
■ Sfiaed ,aj»l taken in execution as the property of
iignry -Seckel, and to he fold by
William Nichols, Marjhal.
Marftial's Office, ■)
Der.niber I?, 1?97.J
December r.; / j t f
Ttr be Sold at Public Vendue, *
(Jf "Ot bffare disposed of at private sale) j
f jM Morniaythf firft davos jantiary ne\t, at fix W
V-/ o'clock Ui;lie evening, at ,he Merchants'Cof- *
fee Houft, in Philadelphia, Tweotv-Six ThouUnrl hu
Sffven Hu'dred and Eighty acres of L AND, in the Sir
State of New-York, between the northern bounds
Ct Pennsylvania and the Su'quehanna, now, or late
in the townjhios of Hamden and Warren, and coun
ty cf Montgomery. One fourth of the purchale*
money to be paid at the time of sale j for the residue
■crrdit-ofone,-two and thrc« months, will be given,
on in'-ereft and good leiurity.
D'c. t.
Jo be bold at Public Vendue,
( Ij not before disposed tf at private sale)
ON Monday the hrft day of January next, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchant Coffe J
iloufe, in Pniladelphia, F.»rty Thousand Nine Hun- V\
dred anrl Thirty-Nine acres of LAND in Green $2
county, Commonweahh of Pennfylvanii,on tha Wa-
teis of Fish and Wheeling Crrck, and teu Mile Run. ™
tTbefc lands are fertile, well timbered abound in
coal; they were isold ten years igo for 5* per acre,
patented cajy in 1 787, except 3,700, which were pa
tented in 179} \ l^c grea'eft part of them were Cur
ve v<'d in 1783. Rn
This traft is between the Ohio and Monongahela, i
"very conve-.Mc nt to vatet carriage—alviut 19 miles from
the town of Walhington, and from 14 to 16 from the
villages ofGreenflD'.irgh and Wheeling. One fourth
of the pure ha fe money is to bc paid at the time of
fife: for «he rehdue a credit of one, two, and thrct
months will be given, on interest and good security. .
Dec. 1. fc'awtj
W A N T Ell ©
f\ LABOR PARCIL O*
Scantling and other Lumber,
Suitable for House Building ; I
Allba quantity of Stone &Bricks, boa
I am re.iJy to enter into contraifts for the a
hove articles—a reasonable time be allowed "
for preparing thtm ; and cafli shall bepaid either
ib advince, or nprn their delivery, aslmay he a
freed on.— to theSubfcriber, Hpui'e-Car
penter, Lombard-ftrcer, No 2.
John Crean. v
PefemH»r to. rtftf.
STOLEN H
Out of the fubferiber's office a large blue Sail
clotheloal,halt worn. Theinfidcof the Collar Pall
is faced partly with scarlet velvet and partly
with scarlet cloth, and it has a silver hook
and chain a, a fattening. A fultable reward r ,
will be paid for rcftoring it.
WILLIAM MEREDITH
No. hi South 3d Street. Hav
Dec. t6. diw
L> v virtue of an order of the Orpt i-'s Csurt,
X) will be (xpofed to Sale, on the ?6th current,
at 9 o'clock, a. u. at the premises, afmallframe ( >-
Houfi; and Lot. fituate.J on the corner of Spruce B:
and Eighth llreets, fulyeif to an annual ground
rent of fifteen pound*, late the property of An- aT!
thoay Lebcck. deceased. fSj
MA HO -VRBI Lr.Bj'.CK, Adminijlralrix.
December tft. »H
TO LET, "
A Front Room, suitable for an may'
Office or Counting hottl'e, with a large Cellar.
Any pcrfon wha may renttha above, may (if re- >
quired) he accommodated with 'Joard and l.odp
ing in the fame honfa. Enqu're at no. ISo, South >* V V
Front, nc:r Vuie street. Jv'j
neccsa'xr IJ. nw
PHILADELPHIA WEDNESDAY EVENING.""DECEMBER ~z». m?
For Savannah, in Georgia,
tThe Ship A Jl A, B,
Thomas Donohue, MaMer,
Ready lo fail—Can accommodate a few
pflVnger*.
jrinam and Curraeoa,
S?. George Washington,
N°. Jovn Df.verlox
For Freight, 0£ Piffage, apply to
'* Stephen Kingston,
No. 46 Walnut, or 33 Dock-street,
Who has a few Bexrt of
Bloom and Muscatel Raisins, and
Gin in Pipes.
December 18. *2t
For Savannah,
j (To fail on or before.Su'iday, the 14th inft. unlciV
prevented by the ioe)
f ue j j J""* le a, '' n s
it.es, j Swift Packet,
'Vic Patrick Gribben, Mafier.
17° "fy jy^* - IT AS
a-12 JIJL tions for paflengers.
For Freight or paflage, apply to
N. iff J. Fr fl zier,
,do no. 95, foutb Front street.
utb- Who havefor Sale, received, by the said flip,
the : New RICE, in whole and half tierces.
in d ! December ;6 diw
rnt i On THURSDAY next, the 10th inft.
1 At the Ton.ting CofTec-HanJc in Neiu-Y'orlt,
7/ Will be Sold without reserve, the
Ship SWIFT,
'f I>'V > Burthen two hundred and nire
~~ tr tons, a remarkable faft filler,
■** built, and well found.
Inventory to be fetn on board, at the Old Slip, 1
&r at no. 178, Pearl-street, New-York,
ed December 16 «d.,t I ,
"r. For
II The ship
ja FARMER, .
cs WU.L fail in a few days, the
-*^-*=~-'- J S=£-^>greajtc r j art of her cargo being
0 ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coffee, or pas- J
,e sage, apply to the master on board, at Walnut.
te street wharf, or to ,
JOHN SAVAGE. f
Dt Who fl Landing, out of the (aid Ship, from Hour- j
h deaux, and For Sale, C
,y Claret in hhds. a
t, White Wine in quarter casks
1, Claret in cases, of a superior quality
n Fantiniac, G
9auterne, f Wines in cases
>f Lunille! S
Prunes in boxca
novemScr 14. (, G
IV
For Londonderry,
THE BRIGANTINE „
s u K K r >
William Whitten, Master. O
a ftronggood vefldl, about two th
] hundred toiw, to fail with all convenient fpecd, a M
2 great part of her cargo engaged—'now lying at
s Willing and Francis's wharf. For freight or pas- £
*faffe, apply to the captain, «r
- k JOHN SKYRIN,
Landenb&rgcr*s zvharf.
Who wants to Charter.
A Vessel of about three hundred tons.
nav 18. § *
J_ IV
For Sale or Charter,
The Snow
&MgL GOOD HOPE,
Will carry about 1100 barrels, and
ready to take in a cargo. For terms
Us' rr.iMb apply to
Pragers & Co.
No. 151, .South Second-street. —r
Who have forfale—prime St. Croix Sugar and
Rnm, Madeira, Lilhon, and Tcncriffe wine.
November 7. dtf.
:
For Liverpool,
The copper bottomed Ship
Hamburg Packet, ,
Captain Silas Swain. » "
A ar K c proportion of her
cargo being ready to go on r T
board, is expetflcd to fail on or about Sunday, the
3d of December. OT
For Freight or PafTage, apply to the Captain on wai
board, at Walnut-street Wharf, or to
PHILIP NICKLIN £s* Co.
novembar 42. § Ma
For Savannah, in Georgia, ~~
THE SHIP
Sally Butler, 7j
Captain Ch is holm,
A vessel. With excellent
""accommodations for paffenijorv—
Sails on the roth of December. Fbr Freight or
Pafflge, apply to ROSS tS* SIMSON.
Who have to difftfe of %
A fma'l invoice of GLAUBER. SALTS
INDIGO, and a parrel of HOLLY WOOD.
November 18. §
Rundle & Leech, J
Have jufl received, and have for Sale, at no 9,
Walnut street, n
Liverpool and St. Übes SALT C ;
Do. heft houfo CO *
Queens' WARE in cases, afforded VA
Bourdeaux BRANDY of an excellent quality „
Do. CLARET in caf,-,, do. S "' c
THFY "AV A 1..0 ?f.
« F " r SALE or CHARTER, om
I'MIS P E T G S "G Y,
Burthen 295 terns, in excellent con J ition, and J'. 011 .
may be sent to fei with little cxpence or delay. rJ Cs .'
LIKEWISE,
THE BRIG fcllin
WILL IA M, < }' fco
Burthen aci.tons, J^ n<l
nwember 16. t 1
By John Fenno, N- u 9 Cbefnut Sirtef: V=t ''
' For CharJefton,
i•— . THF. SHIP
a few . f&kg: VE N US,
fa^c ' very
O low terms, and fail »> e fir:t
opening.——Apply , 0 the mr.(l,r vl| bq,r,j> or *r.
Jot. Anthony b'~Co.
Detember ,8 ' j
frefli Kaifins.
. A Sm jf' c 4?» arrived, and now landing
e , J. lat Chefnut rtrect w4i?rf, f-cm fiie floowYa
rico. capt. Hafaell, confrilmg of
ind J*»- A few Jars of excellent G:a[ier,. and Tacks
of loft (helled Almonds Apply cb the Mailer
on board, or to
"Jos. Anthony & Co.
— y § n
u\ck . Philip NICKLII7IFGo7^
HArp. fOii SALE,
At their Stow? on Walrut street Wharf,.
HavannahSugars, whiteandbrown
r. 15 hhds. Jamaica ' r| o .
)da- 3000 pieces of broad Nankeens
Imperial Tea, in quarters4nd eight?ijof chefls
QliickfHver in tubs
Madeira Wine in pipe* and hoglheads
Trueriffc Winein pipe'
' Old led Port Wme inhapQieads 1
'/>> Sail Car vaf,, assorted, No. Ito 8
V 8 M ;inc heftcr Goods, confuting of Dimities,
vluninet.,Oing!iam.,'Thickfttts, Corduroys, &r.
t. io ° watcs qaeens' Ware, .flirted
, JNiuJs, alforted
> Bla k quart Bottlet
Yellow Oere in tais
A quantity of S!Ste«, flare Ink Stands, fee.
ne- 100 quarter cafe Gun Powder
:er) Ttn' hat, uljo for SAI.R or CHARTER,
Thejhip MOLLT, burthen 340 tons, a
ip, good vcflVl, and completely fitted.
j The brig AMAZON, burthen »3C^ibar-
1 niay be ready for feain a fcw days.
The whole of the above veflels to be fecn at I
Walnut street Wbarf. 5 nov. tc.
FOR SALE,
bt tbi subscribers, No. 21, Peon-Ilreet,
Jhe Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
W John Green, commander, from Bengal,
Conjijling of
t r ; Baftas, of various qualities & prices -
Coflaes Punjum Cloths
Sanahs Guzz.y do.
Humhums Char con n« Dorea
r " Cine Cloth Tanjiis j
chintz and Calicscs Mulmuls
Mamoodys . Checks 4
Maharagonges Patna Hhl.fi.
Ginghams. Mulmul do. 4
Guzzenas Bandannoss jj
Gurrahs Siflerfoy j.
Piniafcocs Choppa Romaic
Salgatchy» Sopty do.
Gillie Romals Perliansofvariouscolours
Mock Pulicatt jj
•jco tons SUGAR G
90,000 lb. PEPPER. C
Wtilings & Francis. si
The Puce Goods C
Of the Ganges are now open and exposed to file' t
0 that commodious {lore tile north wel cotnet of B
a Market and Fourth street. ' *m. to. N
t FOR HALE— by the 3ot>«»,tw', )
An elegant affortinent of Madrafs c
HANDKERCHIEFS, by the balr. £
WILLINGS bt FRANCIS, N
nov, at. § Penn-ftreet. A
FOR SALEI ' c
BT THE SUBSCRIBERS, A
. Madeira Wine, firtt quality, in -
pipes
Madeira Wine, New-York quality, in pipe 9
Lisbon WINE, ia pipe.
of the latell importation, in boxes
Spaniib Wool, in Bales, fttitable for Hattrrs. cu
Willings & Francis, *j
Penn-ftreet, No. if.
N ° y - r - w&stf ol
1 Landing this day, SS
From on board tht fchoonpr Two Friends, Dan' n f
V Crgvyley, Matter, I Ev
S "" | Jamaica RUM, g
FOR SALE BY t0
George Latimer & Son.
uivemht-r q. §
James Sff Richard Smith,
TAKE the Ilber'y of informing their friends t j lc
and the public, that they have ramcved their t j, e
store to No. 54, So*tb Front Jlrret, next d*or to Ed- ]
ward Fox's Auilion Room, wheTe they have at cO ,
this tim'e for Oile, a large and general aflbrtoient of ver
European iff Eqfl India Goods, ted
Many of which are just imported in the Clothier,; ' nt '
William PeDft, See. See. cnu
Oil. a 7. (I Sal
NOW LANDING, ~~ . '
At South-street Wharf, the
7be Cargo of the Ship Concord, eaC
Captain Thoropfon, from B-itavis.
About 300 tons firll qualify Java Coffee (the ?
whole havinjt been fele<fte<l) |
80 tons Java Sugar, in caniftefs and hags J
10 legorcs of old Arrack
Nutmegs, Mace and Cloves
FOR SALE BT
PETER BLIGHT. \
Who also offers For Sale, j
Jufl landed frpm ihip Amity, from Janwica. i
• 20s Ivhds Jamaica Sugar, and
170 do. do. Rupi.
novembtr 2;. ' • dAw E
Canal Lottery--—No. 11. J
WILL commence drawing Monday, thez6th A
inft. Ticltets for Sale in r!>i- I.ott«ry, at u
Smcn Dollar,, at W.y. BLACKBO]RN' f I.ytterj Wai
and Brokers Office, No. 64, Smith Second-lireet 'hwi
Tickets in the Schuyikill Bridge Lottery, r.t Ten ni
DaUttrs, where clieck books arc kept |f> r regiiler. /
isig and examining in these, the City of WifljSng
tqn, No. 11. and Paterfon Lotteries, and icforijia
tion where tickets may be had in moll of the Lotte- lan
ries suthorifed by law in any of the States of the ct *'P
Union. Ch»l
N. B. The bufinef, of aßaoKca, in buying and
felling all kinds of Public Stock OTd Securities, Q..
discounting Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of n ,
Lands, Sec. Sec. will he duly attended to ' b
,by Wm. BLACKBURN. ' N
K/Vtmlcr IS. 5 sice e
NO TI C E.
To tetters of J.IMES GREENLEAPs
and ED WARD ]-X/X's Engagements
TN lOflfequenccof many haviflp btVtl prevent-
W t ' . fr, " n late urcun.lU.ias fro®
>Gri their Certificates, agreeable to former
L . j »**<"■• The Trufteesnow inform thwn, th«-
are ready bo i.Tue th« fame to th«j£r wh:i may ap
ply within sixty days, at No. $ Chtfnut Sir, ct,
i£ j l *" those who do not, wjl| be confulercd as re»
thrir claim on the Aggregate Fund
provided for their payment,
ding \ HENRY PRATT,
'Ya- THOMAS W. FRANCIS,
* nd JOHN MILLER, JUN. .
•«*» V JOHN ASHLEY, ,
JACOB BAKER. j
December xj. j 6ct
: t ~~ NOTICE. "
- THE Creditors of the Estate of Walter
Stewart dficeafed, are requested to meet on
Monday Best ;lt 6 o'clock in the evening
3t ?' le Tavern—The business upon
which they are to deliberate being of great
importance'they are requested not to fail to
give their attendance.
D «- 1 5- qt
WANTS A PLACE,
A« coachman, a black Man, who ran produce
the keft/recomoiendatisas. Enquire of the prin
ter~ Dec., i&—dit
Tc] L A JN D I N »T,
Frpm on board the (hip Cleopatra, Samuel Newell,
60 tons of the best clean RuiTia -
t , „ Hemp
6(5 rafts of'bottlra BKOWN STOUT. '
For Sale by the fuMirihers, Wo at, Psnn-ftreet. <
a Willing; Francis.
_ d *
just arrived,
at From Port-au-Prince, and; fpr Sale by the fubferi. '
bers, No. ai, Penn-ftreet,
6*2 hoglhcads,"\ c
* jSSSI >Prime Coffee »
646 bagj J A
Willing* Iff Francis.
OA. »?.
S " FOR SALE, bt L
Joseph Anthony y Co.
No. J, Chefnut Street,
A cargo of choice Bourdeaux Brandy, ill and id ■
proof, just landed '
»5« bales of Bourbon cotton of a superior quality
9 do. Surat, do do _
A quantity of heavy black pepper ih bale» „
Bourbon Indigo of the firft quality 1 «,
High proof Jamaicaipirits
Old London particular Madeira wine ?In pipes & N
~ do. market do ( qr. caflci.
New England rum in hoglhead9
Genuine Holland Gin in pipes . g-
Claret in cases gl
Spetmsceti candles and ftrain'd oil c
Prime Boston bepf s j
Choice Halifax Salmon in barrels and half barrels j,
t Do. Herring in do do
f Bed Boston MacJtarcl in barrels of the fall fare. gj
New-England tow l : u«n
A few tons of Ruflia cordage
Hoiffia ftather bed.
* and Timothy feed in :JiVs -
Long whale bone
No x, », and 3, Boflon fail duck '
A few chests fir 11 quality Hyson tea _
Carolina rice in whole and half tierces and
An invoice of Dutch hollow glulj wan e.
November 8. diw. t ? 1
— " ■■— 1 1 ... 1- all
New-Theatre,
December 11, 1797.
r T~ I HE Maucjils particularly rcqucfi. the coa
* JL currence of the public in the abolition of a
cuftoai, which has hitherto obtained, of giving a
way or disposing of RETURN CHECKS at ihe ap l
. Theatre. £
They are aware that gentlemen are unconscious
of any wrong done to tne interest qf the inllitu
(ion by thispraflicc, from a general, though naif-
taken idea that Checks arc the reprcfentatives of a
right to so many feats in tlhe Theatre, during an
Evening's Entertainm&if, and transfer «ileat will;
when in fa<ft, they were never intended as more
than tottm by which the Door-keepers are enabled
to afcertaia with the h alt trouble to tjje fiarliu, thit ]
tity tbemfdms have been before in the Theatre?, or
paid for their admiflion. !
Independent of the injury the Managers sustain, 1
such a pra<slice encourages a croud of idle boys and
other difordej-ly persons to surround the dporj of
the Theatre, to the corruption of their morals and (
the great annoyance of tbe Audience. ~
It has also be«n theCaiirce of two evih of no in- J C
confulcrable magnitude; one is, that fomctitncs
ver-y impropur c«tnp,iny is by".these means admit- _
ted ; and the other, that to Checks pafling (
into difhonejl hands, they have be>n frequenaly ?T
counterfeited to a large amount for the purnofessf .
Sale.
This ftatenicnt will, it isrefpe<9fully hoped, in- lu ''
ducc the Public to discourage such a traffic : and
the exertions of the Managers will, if tbus afiidedi
easily prove adequate to its entire abolition. con
WIGNELL REINAGLE. ™
Dfcember 13 lw
James p. iff Samuel W. Filler,
AT THEIR STORE, ~
No. 13, corner of Arch and Front flreets,
UAFE FOR SALE,
Cotton atid worsted Hosiery in trunks, afTorted ?'
A few bales red, white, and yellow Flannels
Ditto fu;ty romall Handkerchiefs 11
Ditto Pullicat fil|t ditto
Ditto Pondicherry and Madrafs ditto
Ditto Gurrahs
Bengal black Tafietics
4COO pieces Nankeens, and
| Few chdls best HyfonTeo
boj.s best London Window Glifs,
8 by 6, to 19 by t4 —and J5 hhds. Glass
Ware, assorted, which they will difpefe of cheaper
than any in the city. nc
novrmber «8. lawtf
Alphabetical Lift of Duties, A r
Payableby law on all GOOOI, Wares, and Mer- w ; t ;.
'chandize, imported i:ito the United Stat»s—latell vol)[
edition, tone fold by JOHN ORVIROD, no. 41, in.
Ch«fnnt-fireet. Dec 16 d
: TO BE SOLl>, in'gt
Or Exchanged for Property in the Country, We!
That three story Brick House,
No. 157, north Third ftipet. Apply auhc of
fice ef th* Ci.T-T. nor. 29- w&s<jw 11
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal,
'' A > ai} j n ; rncd of < bc Stockholm*ct
' t.u * . and Schuylkill Opal, it to ! a
■ent-' f . dd H . ' t,e \ r ° il;c - evwJov (io,h ot
rose *'? W at 6 °' ,:,ock ' M precifdy,
is cu mattsrs
:h <T rriv!. ,£la,m ? to cer » in fro
' R ' f fr" more,V r c Tl«i-g the
ret, r '" g r\ aki us the Lcgiflfturd
»ad the Corporation of thi City. f» r introducing
l,nd WM. MOORE SMITH, feVy.
—Pre cm I)'r r 4 . _ &Iyti
insurance Company **"
° F PENNSYLVANIA.
I '° r ' are htreby notified, that an
" f or thirteen DrreSoie to feiye for
ooe year, will be held at the company's flflice, 011
the .%kth day of January next, at 11
J* SAM. W. FISHER, Stftv.
on December 14 d P g t ,, r
A l-'ifty Dollar Bank Note,
Of tlielVir'k of the United States, was loft on'Sa
" tur , { m ' htuveen the Bank, of the United States
to and the Horf; market-Is in honed person has
found it and will leave it vv fh the Printer hereof;
they ihali he hanolfomeiy rewarded.
X)cenlb "" eod_3t
k . e Bank of North America.
M ~ Stoc "holden are her«Hy notified, thar art
_ * lc f ,tm for twelve Direftor?, for the ensuing year,
will beheld at,the Kank 011 Monday, the Bth of
Jamuryr.ext, at ten o'clock.
• RICHARD WELLS, Coffer.
[ a December n. dtXth[
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal.
THE Stockholders hereby notified, that the
tt. e.e«sUon lor President and Managers, for the ensu
ing year, will be held at the company's office, on
thefirft Monday in January next, at Too'clock,a. m, *
WM. MOORE SMITH, Sec'ry.
December ir. mwinltittr^J
i. ScThuyJkill and buiquehanna Canal.
I HE Stockholders are hereby notified, that th«
clecftion for President and Managers for the enfu
'Hs ? ear ' w '" k® at t ' le company's office, on
the firft Monday in January next, at 10 o'clock,
A - M - Dec.tr. mwAfaiftmt'
JUST RECEIVED,
_ (via New-York) *
AND NOW OPENING, BY,
George Dobson,
No. sj, f«uth Third llreet,
An extensive and general afibrtment of
c HABERDASHERY, viz.
Bed London mUf Pins Galloons and Berrets
Common do. do. Worded Binding,, affor-
Makcnzie sfupsr.patent ted colours
white chapel Needles Imperial, diaper, and
1 Nuns Thread.bo. 6to Thread Tapes
40, regularly aflortud White Edgings
Lisle do.no. 130 to 500, Bla.kcnd coloured Chi
regularly affbrted nefe Ribbands
Coloured do. Sattin and figured do.
Black fewmg Silks Black Velvet, 1-4 to 12d
Coloured do. and Twist Velvet & pelon Sattins
Silk and cotton Wires French Cambrick
DO. do. Ribbands Scotch do. \
Sh.rt Moulds and Wires Plain gilt and plated
Black brulh Fealhirs Buttons
And 1 compleat assortment of Geods. fuitabU
to the pr'fent and approaching season, at reduced
P r ' cc »- Dec. 6, a,f
ths partnership of
Richard £sf James Potter,
TS this day diflolved, by mutual content. All
k persons indebted to the raid firm, arc r, rutfted
to jay the fame to either of the fuVfcribers; and
all persons having any demuid# agrinft them, ara
requeued to fend their accounts sot settlement.
Richard Potut,
„ . James Potter.
December 9, ?
i'he Bubl'criber intends to make
application for Phe .enewalof a Certificate of a Share
m the Bank of the United States, flandin 8 in the name
h!* k 0 ° 4 ' July 1.,. 797. 'he fame
having -been -loft. JOHN GRAHAM.
Kichmond, Dec. !•
"kuss er SIMSON,
have for sale,
A few bales Baftas, Coflas, and
a of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica, }
St. Vincents, C RUM.
and Bengal j
300 cases RICS, : rd
A parcel of ship building RED CED \R.
Oa. 17. " ■ ' 4-
Chocolate and Mustard.
of a superior q.tialitj? manufaflured,
GINGER and 'Pepper, ground ; shelled or
pearl Bjrley ; Philadelphia Porter, Beer,
Ale end Cydtr ; Taunton and Burton Ale ;
Porter ; red. Port and Lifcon Wine,
luitahle for exportation or home conftimptior..
1 he highest pi ice given for Mustard-Seed.
Also forfaje, A quantity cf Bocking and
common Baizes, a variety of colors; a bale of
Fuitians, Shawls, &c, for'faleby
JOHN HA WORTH,
Ne. 98, fontli Front-ftrcef.
" c "'- *7. m.&th.LiJ.
Imported (via New York) on the 1
ftip Hero, from Madras and Calcutta, and for
* W e hjthe fubferihtr, at No. 61, Chefnut flreer,
hetween Second and Third Streets, the follow
ing articles . ,
Maha.agonies Charconna Dorens
Chintz and Calicoes Dacca ■wonted ruuilin#
G:Jlis Romaic Bandannoes
Niilas & PenHafoes Chafla Uomals
Biue qloth Fiair ribbon
jVTull MuiirhanTcerchiefß Palemporcs
P«itna do. Bauaxes Opium
LelTer Cardinitim Seeds.
Samuel Wilcox.
novemher n tutl.s 4 w
fOR SALE, •
A Team of five excellent Horfe3,
witli a Waggon and Gears. The Horses are ail
young, strong, true to the drai.ght, and cjpabie
of hauling a: great a weight as moV in f he coun
try. The Waggon and Gears are strong, nnrl
m good order. App! v to ROBERT GREEK.
Weft Town, Ghefier, county,, or*;o
Thomas Fifner,
No. 14;, S. Secrr.y Street, Philadelph's
11 mo. 2, eofljw.
VOLVMIi Xll.y -vs 11 ';tkv • 1
(SSaseste*
PHILADELPHIA\ - ■
Wednesday EVENING, DncEtfn*'/?'■>.■%
From tie Columbian Ccntir.e.
Mr. Ruffe!!,
If none better are offered, please to pub
lish the following aiifVvtrs to PILATE'a
enquiries after " truth."
PAUL.
TO PILATE.
QUKlibn i. " Why is it that Dc'tfli fqmi
ti&es become Christians ?"
Aufwer. Because some Dei/is enlightened
and influenced by the divine spirit, perceive
and embrace thc^-uth.
Q. 2. " Why do the latter (i. e. Chrif
tiaqsj never change fides i"
A. Because theydo not choose to change
a good religion for none at all, or that which
yields them tortifort and hope, for that which
deprives them of both.
tiec'i'.-*' vr.jtariati} ?"
A. All trinitarians are unitarians—i. e.
Thev believe! there is but one God. Uni
fifru'tt, therefore, is not a proper term of
diftindtion. But tn ; adapt the answer to
your mftning—THe-reafcri why fomc trini
ta'ri ir.s (or those who believe the dextrine of
Chri/i's divinity) become unitarians ; —viz.
deny awl rejedt the doctrine of Chri/l's £-
' vinity, i>:ay be, either because such trinita
rians have never been fettled and established
in this branch of icriptural faith, and are,
therefore, proper fubjedts to be borne about
b'y every wind cf dodtrine ; or, because
t iicv have profidly disdained to believe what
they could not comprehend and explain ;
or'becaufe, like a great part of the world,
they prefer error to truth, or for the fame
reaforir that our Lord assigns for men's loving
tlarLntfs' rather than Ugh;.
Q. 4. " Why do these rarely become
those P'
viz. Why do unitarians rarely become trini
tarians P
A. Because men who have imbibed so
dangerous and inveterate an error as unitari
anifm, or the rejection of Chrifl't
are seldom cured of it.
PAUL.
Extract from the speech of Charles Pinck
ney, Governor of the State of South-Ca
rolinn, to tbel.egiflatureofthat ftateatthe
opening of their session on the 23d ult.
On the fubjeft of our intercourse with
foreign powers, it is my duty to acquaint
you, that on the President of the United
States being informed, the French republic
hadrefufed to receive out minister, and that
their a;»ents and cruisers continued to seize
the vessels of our citizens, he cotifidered it
as his duty to call a fpecia! meeting of con
gress—that they did convene, and after hav
ing agreed in opiniory with the president,
that another attempt fliould be instituted to
fettle our differences, by negociation,
had passed some adh : among the most
important of which, are the aftß for
prohibiting far a limited time the exporta
tion of arms and arjimunit/cn^—for prevent
ing the citizens the United Stales from pri
vateering against nations in amity with us—
providing for the further defence cf the
ports and harbours of the United States—
authorifing a detachment of the militia of
the United States—for registering and en
rolling, (hips and veffeh—for making certain
appropriations for additional expenditures,
and laying duties on (lamp vellum, parch
ment and paper.
On the laws for authorising the president
to call out a certain proportion of the mili
tia, I have a&ed as far as reded with mc,
by issuing the necessary orders to the adju
tant general, fdr apportioning their quotas
on the refpeftive brigades, and ordering
them to hold themselves itl readiness to
marclSi at a moment's warning, and he has
issued orders to the brigadiers for their re
turns to enable him to do so. Most of
these a£s have keen passed by Congress
with a view to place us in a state of prepa
ration, fliould the republic of France still
continue unfriendly, or refufe to assent to
an Amicable adjustment of our differences.
I trust, however, that from the arrival of
our envoys, and the manner in which our
government have again attempted to adjust
our differences, the moderation and justice
of both nations will prevail—that they will
repair recent injuries and recolleft former
mutual fufferings and services—that they
will remember, it is always the true interest
of republics to aid and protedl each other,
and that the present negociation may termi
nate in producing as harmonious a connec
tion, as has hitherto existed between the
two countries. Convinced as lam from the
most deliberate reflection, that considering
our original conneflion, and the nature and
principles , as to commercial views ofboth go
vernments, •white tve can do it with honor,
it is our interest to be upon tke most friend
ly terms with France, it has been with as
much concern I have viewed our
differences, as it is now with pleasure I find
myfelf enabled to communicate to you the
appointment, during your recess, of three
gentlemen of known character and talents,
to repair to Paris, invefttd with proper pow
ers to terminate them. As I have already
observed, the solemn manner in which this
embassy was formed, is a proof how highly
our government value the friendfliip, and
how important they conceive the intercourse
with France to be—and as there can be no
doubt of our envoys being vested with am
ple powers, I have been led to expedt the
most favorable consequences Should our
differences with France be amicably fettled,
those with Spain, her ally, will of course be
more easily accommodated.
It was my wish, and I had some ground
to cxpeiSt, it would have been in my power,
at the opening of fhjs session, to have con
gratulated you oa the termination of differ
ences among ail the belligereDt powers ; and
.thct to the unexampled horrors and diftrciT
es, produced by. a contett, extending thro'
afynoll every part of the civiii/.ed world, a
period was to succeed, when liberty, with
the gcujnl arii of peace and coinm<rf«t might
«ft:iblim-lic!* mild .dominion —.when From the
w.fe and proper uie of these advantages, you
j may have b-.en enabled torccoHeft, without
; regret, that the sacred ilame you fir it kin
■ died had-fuccefafully extended through the
faireft parts of the earth, and that wc had
repaid the benefits derived front thcoid world
in their discovery and fettlemcnt of the new
by an example, and by light and infti uftion
upon qqeltioris of all others the most inter
eiting to them. It is with the deepest con
cern, therefore, I am to announei to you,
that the negociatiotis for peace between the
powers at war have ended without fuceefs j
and that it is yet uncertain what will be the
future fituacion of Europe, and of the na
tions with whom we are most .connected.
ImpoflibLe as it must be for us, at this time,
and at this distance, to form an accurate o
pinion of the events which have ptoduced
these late and important cl.'jges—lament
ing 83 we must do, the continuance of the
war, and its attendant calamities, let us
still hope they may soon fee their true' inter
est in the establishment of a general peace,
and that the mcafures produced by our ex
ample, maybe followed by the fame mode
ration which accompanied our revolution—
that they may really prove a bleffmg to the
people who have imitated us—that when
the heat, which must ever accompany the
deftrudtion of ancient despotisms, and the
eredtion of republics, is subsided, the change
(hall operate so beneficially, as amply to re
pay the ravages of the contest, and that the
time is nfct distant, when such proper and
liberal fyllnms, in the intercourse of nations
(hall be generally established, as will be the
means of preventing wars, and ensuring to
the world the blefiinga of peace, and an un
disturbed and general commerce.
COMMERCE.
An exaft lift of the (hips of different Nati
ons that have passed the Sound in the
Yoars 1790 and 1796.
The navigation of the Sound has been
» considered as an objeft of so much import
ance in a political light, that the following
account of the Trade of two years, at a
considerable distance from each other, must
necessarily be received with interest and at
tention.
Ships that passed through the Sound.
In 1790 In 1796
American, 44 169
Bremen ers, 177 177
Courlanders, 2 2 . 10
Danifti, 1559 2157
Dantziekers, 248 249
Dutch, 2009 1
Englilh, 3718 4445
Flemings, 6 I
French, 132 o
Hamburghera, 194 40
Lubeckers, 89 70
O denburghers, 24 110
Papenhurghers,*" o 232
Portuguese, 30 14
Pruflian, 598 1773
Roftookers, 339 193
Ruffian, 6 7
Swedish, 420 2 5°5
Spanish, 32 25
Venetian, 6 o
Total, 9734 >2113
The foregoing lift must give rife to im
portant reflections and remarkable compan
ions. The annual revenues arising from
the toll levied upon vessels palling through
the Sound, has been generally estimated at
between J and 600,c0c rix dollars :fo that
the Royal Treasury must have received near
ly 150,000 rix dollars in the year
1796 than in the year 1790. It does not
belong to this place to enter into the caufe3
of so extraordinary an encreafe in the navi
gation of the Sound, which for the most
part, depends upon political circumstances,
upon enctcafing speculations, and the spirit
of commerce. It is fufficient to remark,
that this navigation has encreafed about a
fourth in the interval of the time between
the years 1790 and 1797. Thefubje£ts of
one cotmtry (Denmark) must observe with
the fentiment# of patriotism and gratitude
hew much their trade has been promoted
by the wife measures of their government,
and what sources ofprofperity have been o
penedto them. The encreafe of Prussia and
Sweden has been aluioft incredible, the
trade of the former being encreafed to near
ly a triple,fand the latter almost in a quintu
ple proportion.
Great Britain, whose navigation has en
creafed with the present war, is also a consi
derable gainer by the encreafe of her trade
to the East Sea. But the French Revoluti
on, and the war which fuccceded it, har«
produced themoftmelancholyconfequence* to
the tradeofFranceandHolland,andha*e been
no less deftrudtive to their Baltic trade than
to their commerce inother partsof the world.
j France, whose merchantmen formerly passed
1 the Sound in considerable numbers, cannot
s reckon a finglc (hip in the year 1796 ; and
. Holland, that country so famous for its
, wealth, the commercial rival of Great-Brit
ain, and which before the Revolution had
j drawn to itfelf a considerable part of the
5 trade of the East Sea, saw that important
r branch of its commerce reduced in the last
1 year to a single (hip. The trade of the U
; nired States to the East Country appears to
> have received a considerable iucreafe ; but
. Hamburgh, whose trade according to thff
: most general received opinion, has risen to
r an aftonifbing height in the courf* of the
* It may be necessary for the information
of many readers, who £may be unacquaint
-1 ad with thi3 appellation, to state, that in
, the Danifii (hipping lifts, all vessels clearing
. out from' any ®f the commercial places from
the Wefer to the Ems are diftinguiflied by
I ! the abort <V'fcription.
pr<foot war, has experienced a considerable ra
diminution: of its trsde to tlw i>tH)nd. 1 hat pi
of Bremen has atfo ditninilhed ; Lubec on- ce
ly has maintained its former proportion, b;
though with some considerable decroafe. " le
-err 2 ' it
jC. 0 N G R e s s - ni
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, t'c
TUESDAV DECEMBER, 1 0l
The Speaker informed the ffinife that he I as
had received a letter from the diredtor of the a«
mint, inclosing a report, in purfuanee to the te
order of the house pafled yesterday. This t'c
reportftates, that it is not deemed prudent at
to.take i.ity the mint mote bullion than can pi
be worjced\in one mafa, when it comes from le
any oFtlie batiks of the city, from whence E
it can be had ia a very (hort tioiewhen want
ed ; that deg,of)ts qre now wm'ting till such m
as are in hand are finifhed ; that it is ex- ri
pedted the banks of this city and of New- 01
York will'make deposits for about 300,000 er
dollars, in French crowns, bt.it that these oi
deposits are kept back until prior ones are 01
paid off; that when there is fufficient bill- ol
lion in the mint to keep one press striking, lii
this will be done at the rate of from 18 to t«
20,000 dollars weekly. Th? gold coin en
creafes in amount according to its addition- tl
al value. It is stated that the gold bullion c<
deposited in the mint, since the 29th No- ti
vember, 1796 (<he time at which the lalt b
report was made) to the ißt.h instant, was 'I
5997 oz. rj dwts. 9 gr. value 106,626 dol- y<
lars and 95 cents. Th« quantity,of silver re
bullion deposited, during the fame period, y
has been 42,15 1 oz. 8 gr. value 48,635 dol- tj
lars 76 cents 5 mills. The quantity of fil- al
ver coin iflued fiuce the last report is stated tl
tohavebeen 12,546 dollars, 3918 half-dol- ft
lars", 252 quarter-dollars, 25,261 difmes, ei
44,527 hqlC difmes—amounting in the f:
wholif tp 19,320 dollars cents. That tl
«!ere nearly ready for delivery in the h
mint 34,d60 dollars in silver coins. It is ti
also stated that the quantity of gold coin ri
ifftied, during the fame period, has been ri
eagles,' 6406 half-eagles, 1756 qr. b
eagies; equal to the value of 128,190 dol- p
lars. n
Mr. T. Claiborne moved the usual order b
for printing this report. . t
Mr. Nicholas had no obje£tion to the re
port beinrr printed ; that it might be taken I
into consideration when the fiibjedt of the t
mint (hould come before the house ; but t
hoped it would be fuffered to lie on the ta- f
ble until the bill, with which some gentle- c
men had fuppofedit to be connected, (hould t
be pa(Ted, in order that it might be referred
to whilst on the table by those who wi(hed r
it, as he trusted they (hould not delay the a
consideration of the bill relative to foreign c
coin until this report (hould be printed.
Mr. Thatcher could not fee the use of <
printing the report, after the fubjedt to t
which it alluded was disposed of. This I
would be like executing a man and then I
trying him. The printing of these papers,
he supposed, could not .delay the business 1
more than 24 hours, or 48 at most. He '
thought, therefore, it would be much bet- ]
ter that they (hould be printed, than that 1
the clerk fnould be frequently called upon 1
to read them, or that the members (hould 1
coljefl in clubs, as on a former
occasion we suppose, on the Qua
ker*'petition) to read them, in different
parts of the house.
The motion for printing was pw.t and car
ried.
Mr. Harrifon presented a memorial from
D.M. Randolph, mar(hallofthediftri£t of Vir
ginia, complaining of the ruinous state of ]
the prisons in that quarter ; dating the ut
ter impoflibility of confining any person, un
der proccfs of the courts of the United
States, for debt, who wiihed to be at liber
ty, and that on account of this defeat seve
ral persons had made their escape from him,
and he was fu«d by their creditors for their
debts. He prays relief in the premises, re
ferred to a feleit committee of five.
Mr. Baird presented a petition from Si
mon Cogler, a soldier in late war, pray
ing for compensation for nie services ; and
Mr. Sewall one from G. Pomeroy, Rat
ing that he had not only loft his house and
furniture, but several certificates of public
debt, for which he prays reeompenfe.
Both these petitions were referred to the
committee of claims.
Mr. Harper, from the committee appoint
ed to prepare and report a bill prescribing
the mode of taking evidence in cafei of con
tested ele£tions, and to compel the attend
ance of witnesses, reported a bill according
ly, which was twice read, and committed for
Monday.
Mr. D. Foster, from the committee of
claims, made an unfavourable report on the
petition of John Black, which was concur
red in by the house.
i Mr. Harper called for the order of the
day on the report of the committee of ways
and means, on the petition of William Tom
linfen and others, citizens of the state of
Virginia, which being agreed to, the house
resolved itfelf into a committee of the whole
accordingly.
The petition states, that in consequence
of the conftniftion put by the Treasury De
partment on the aits for laying duties on
spirits distilled within the United States and
on (tills, persons desirous of obtaining licen
ces for diltiliing, pursuant to the aft of the
3d of March, 1797, on that fubjeft, are
required to make their eleftion, as to the
length of time to which the licence (hall ex
tend and the time of its commencement in
the month of June, the time fixed by law
for making entry of stills. From hence they
alledge that great inconveniences reftilt to
the dilliller ; itiafmuch as it impossible to
forefee, so early as June, what quantity of
fruit or grain, the year will afford, and,
fequently, for the owners of stills to judge j
when, or for what length of time, they
ought to take out their licences.
This conftruftion, the committee fyid,
has heen adopted by the Treasury Depart
raent, and they coaceive that it lia3 been
property adopted" ;tkit though they con- t!| .
ceive the conilruftion put on the aft, i"97»
by the Treasury De|?&rtnient, to be (triftly . (v ,
legal, they are nevertheless, of opinion, that p r
for the reafbti set forth by the petitioners, m
it mult, in its effeft, prove highly ineonve- la
nient and detrimental both to individuals and
the public. And they have the fatisfaftion
to find, that the Secretary of the Treasury, j
with whom they thought proper to confer p,
on the fubjeft, agrees with them in opinion eft
as to the expediency of altering the law so
as to' permit owners of stills, having duly en- ft
tered them, to make their election both as b<
so the time, and the extent of their lieences th
at whatever period may suit them belt.
purftiance of these ideas, the committee beg of
leave to present, for tha consideration of the
House, the following resolution : B
" Refolded, That it is expedient so to a- tli
mend the several afts refpeftingdutieson fpi- cc
rit« distilled within the United States, and hi
on stills, as to permit owners of stills, duly as
entered, to make their election, at any time p
of the year, both as to the time of taking h
out licences purfnant to the said aits, or any rr
of them, and as to the period to which such c<
licences (hall extend—and that the commit- f«
tee have leavetobring in a billaccordingly." ti
Mr. Gallatin proposed an amendment to c
the report. Besides the duty paid'on licen- si
ces taken out for a (horter time than a year,
there was a duty of 54 cents per gallon paid o
by those who choose to enter by the year, a
This duty wasnb other than a licence by the
year, though not so called. The proposed b
resolution would not reach licences by the
year, tho' he thought it ought, as person! f
taking outalicence for a year, were as much t
at a loss to know in the month of June, whe
ther their crops would enable them to distil r
for so long a time as to make it their inter- f
eft to do so, as. those who took licences out t
for a shorter period. The consequence was, r
that, in the part of the country from whence
he came, scarcely any person ventured to t
take opt n licence for the year, but rua the 1
rilk of taking out a licence for a (horter pe
riod. This-was inconvenient, as it proba- )
bly left their stills for several months unem- i
ployed, and had an effeft to injure the reve
nue. He hoped therefore, the report would 1
be extended to yearly licences, as well as to ]
those for a (horter period.
Mr. Harper seconded this amendment.—
He said it would have been introduced into ,
the report if the committee had thought j
themselves at liberty to do so ; but as the ]
petition referred to them did not complain
of this part of the aft, they did not think
themselves authorized to touch it.
The motion was agreed to, the committee
rose, the hoS'e agreed to the amendment,
and a bill was directed to be brought in ac
cordingly.
Mr. Coit called for the order of the day
on the report of the committee of claims, on
the petition of Anna Welfli; which motion
being agreed to, the house resolved itfelf in
to a committee of the vvhfteon the fubjeft.
The petitioner asks for as allowance of the
seven years half-ply, promised to the widows
and orphans 0? certain officers killed in the ser
vice of the United States, durfng the late war.
It appears that Mrs. Wellh's hulband was a cap
tain of marines —that he served cn the expedi
tion to Pennbfcot, ai.d wjs there (lain ; but the
resolution of Csrigrefi, promising seven years
half-pay to the officers who fell in service, did
not extend to the widows of officers of the na
vy. The petitioner, as executrix of the I aft will
»nd testament of her brother, George Hurlbut,
deceased, further asks for an allowance of the
conamuta. ion, and land warrants, to which flic
apprehends she i« entitled, on the principle that
her brother continued in service till the end of
the war. That gentleman was a captain in
Sheldon's regiment of light-dragoons : he was
wounded by the enemy, in the performance sf
his duty, at Tarry town, in thefummer of 1781,
and langui(hed of his wounds until the Bth of
May, 1783, when he died.—By the afl of Con
grels of the aiftof Oflober, 17X0, half-pay for
life was promised to the officers of the army,
who should continue in the service to the end of
tbeiuar. This was afterwards, on the aid of
March, 1789, commuted for five years full pay.
If captain Hurlbut i : ved to the end of the war,
he was entitled to commutation, and in his right
■ the petitioner, as executrix of his will, anil le
. gatee, would be entitled, otherwise not. The
[ question then arising is, when did the waread ? ■
or in other words, was there an end of the war
. before thu Bth of May, 178J, the day of captain
Hurlbut's death ? On the solution of the quef
: tlop, relts the claim of the petitioner for com
mutation ; it being plared on the ground of con
: f?afl only. The provrfional articles of peace
between the United States awd Great-Britain,
were ligned November 301 1781, and the treaty
between France and Great-Britain, on which
' the efficacy <.f thrife articles was conditioned, np
' on the acth of January 1783. The firft infoT
■ mation Congress appear to have had of them,
- was on the 24th of March 1783, when the ar
r tned velTcls, cruising muter commiflions from
the United States, were refilled. Oh the nth
p April 1783, 5 reflation of hostilities was ordered
by proclamation of Congress. On the 2;, dof
" April, Congress, by their resolution of that
" date, declared thsir opinion, that " the time of'
tie men engaged to serve during the zvitr, dies
e nst expire until the ratification ef the definitive
s treaty of peace." By the atfls of May i 6, June
it, Jvuguft 9, antl September 26, 178.1, Con
s grefs direfted parts of the army tobe fnrloughed,
and by their proclamation on the 18th OiSlober
e in the fame year, tiiey discharged abfolutety, as
s ter the 3d November, thtn enftung, fnch part
of the federal armies as hid been furloughed by
i the several aits aforriaid. On the 25th No
. vtmbrr, New-York was evacuated hy the Brit
n ifh troops. The definitive treaty of peace was,
1 in faift, (igned on the 3d September, 1783, but
not received by Congress till about the middle
" of January 1784. In the. i itlements made for
e pay, Sic. by the commillioners 0} Congress, with
e the officers and men engaged to ftrve during
e the war, and furloughed as afai efaid, the 3d day
. of November, the d.iy when the troops were
difi harped by proclamation, has hten regarded
as the end of the war, and they have been let"
v tied with, and paid to that day accordingly.
Y 'fhecptnniinee. ft,ite, that had they found no
0 resolution of Cungrefs, which seemed to have
0 determined the question when the war ended,
if they might have been induced to lix on a peri
_ od, antecedent to the death of captain Hutlbn:,
e * and consequently have been of opinion, that the
L petitit ner was entitled to relief; but as Congrpft
Y It em to have fixed 011 a later leiiod, by their
refolutim of the 13d of Ap: il, and by continu
!, inr in fei vice, the troops engaged to fcrve during
.- the u .r, .iiid paying the officers and men till the
,?d ofNpvemher 1783, as .ijjjey we--, IftVieti!
that time, to be called into lervice, am! in cafel
of difuhebtence, would havS b«en fubjidled to
the penalties of the rules and articles of war ;
and as the Ho«fc of Rcprefentatives, under the
preisnt government, rejefled a petition for com
mutation, • onrnkxl on principles, exjflly simi
lar *itl) th« prefmt, bytheaclmifiiffrjitor to the
eftateof Major Torrey, who died in Sepsemher,
'783, the committee conceive they are not at
liberty to contradiA authority and precedent,
so rcl'peilable— therefore report, that the
prayer of the petition of the laid Anna Welfli,
cfbght n''t to he erantect.
Mr. D. Foster said the cafe was so fully
stated in the report,that he helieveditwould
be unnecefiary to fay auv thing more than
that Mrs. Welsh had obtained the T'ind war.
rant to whick she was entitled from the war
office.
This report was oppofedby MeiTrs. Coit,
Brookes and Dayton, Who infilled upon
the widow being entitled to her claim of
commutation on account of the services of
her brother, as the war must be considered
as terminated, when the preliminaries of
peace were signed, which was previous to
his death, and if cootraty decisions had been
made, it was time they were reversed. In
confirmation of wlhat was asserted of the de
serts of captain Hurlbut, a letter and cer
tificate of General Wafliiugton effete produ
ced, which spoke of him in the highelt pot
fible terms.
The report was supported, on the ground
of precedent, by Messrs. D. Foster, Macon,
and Nicholas.
It was finally negatived, there being on
ly 21 votes for it.
Mr. Coit then moved attfolution to the
following effeft wlkich, after a few observa
tions was agreed to.
" Resolved, that provision ought to be
made by law for allowing to the legal repre
sentatives of George Hurlbut, a captain in
the service of the United States, the com
mutation to which he i 6 entitled." >
The committee rose, andthe hortfe agreed
to the refolntioo, and ordered a' bill to be
brought in accordingly.
Mr. T. Blount prcfented a petition from
sundry inhabitants of North Carolina pray
ing that a post road may be edablifhed from
Washington to Woodftown. Referred to
the, committee already appointed on this
fubje£l.
Mr. Livingfton pvefented the petition of
William Dixon and Pierre Anpoix, mer
chants of New-York ; the former praying
for the reimbursement of duties which he
had been obliged to pay on a velTel, consid
ered as foreign, for want of a proper rtgif
ter ; the latter to be allowed a debenture on
a quantity of goods exported, the drawback
on which had been withheld, on account of,
some informality in bis entry. Both were
referred to the committee of commerce»and
manufaflures.
On motion of Mr. Pinckney, the bouse
went into a committee of the whole, on the
bill for the relief of North and Vefey of
Charleflon ; when Mr. Coit moving to a -
mend the bill, by leaving the allowance to
be-made to be afcertaiaed by the proper offi
-1 cer», inllead of faying what it (hould be;
Mr. Swanwick called for the reading of the
petition, as he belifved there was annexed
to it a certificate from the colledtor of the
port of the quantity of sugar consumed ;
1 but the clerk not being able readily to find
! the petition, a motion was made for the com-
I mittee to rife and report progrtfs, which J>e
ing agreed to, the committee had leave to
' fit again. Adjourned.
t PENNSTL VAN IA L EGISLATURE.
f
1 House of Representatives.
s
December 18.
f A petition from a number of the c itizecs of
Montgomery county, si a ting certain uteonvemen
ce> irom the present airaogement of ion dif
triAs, and praying two new election diftriclsmay
\ he laid out, was prcfented, read and referred to
c the members from Montgomery county.
A petition signed by a committee of the direc
tors of the hank of Pc.nnfylvania, praying t-hat the
' cnihier and his fiicceffor in office, may be appoint.
1 ed a n»tary public for the special business of the
* hank, was prefen ted, read and referred to a com
e mittce.
: A petition from Benjamin Chamber*, praying
r that if Chamberiburgh thould be incorporated his
n property may not be included in the a6l of incor
f- was prefentcd, read and referred to
1- members from Franklin county.
1 Several Other petitions were presented and read,
e The committee on the petition from Berks
, county, praying an alteration in the Kith ele.'tion
y diftriif, made report in favor of the petitioners.
)i The bouse proceeded to the fui ther confidcratinn
of the report of the committee on the governor's
address.
, That on the election laws was referred to a com
mittee confiding of Messrs. Wain, Leib, Carpen
n ter, Whitehill, Wei's, Ireley. and Palmelr.
That on the organization of the militia was re
, ferred to Messrs. Gurney, Worrell', Lewis,Rhea,
n and Marlhall. \
That ori the expediency of a toll on theConr
'' wcg" canal, was referred to Messrs. Kirk, Hopkins,
W. Soyder, and Heoderfon.
J That on the insolvent laws was referred to, a
ve committee already appointed.
le That on the territorial controversy in Luzerne,
was refcrrsd to Messrs. Forreft, Hemphill, Kelly,
Weaver, S. Marclay. Hendricks, and Wallace:
r That 011 the ruMic buildings in Ninth street.was
f- referredto a committee already appointed,
t I'Haton marriage and tavern licences wasreferr
)y ed to MeiTrs. Bull. Pow.-r, Grofcup. Finleyt a.i.t
0- Kraus. A djeuruetL
it- December 19.
s, Petitions from a number of the citizens of Atonf-
M l goinery' *countv, pruning a mw cieilion diftriiit
[ e may be allowed tbfnr, was prefented,'read and re
or f'' r 'cd.
,| 1 The committee on the petition of John Gihfon
. praying p rrr. i;Ti011 to erect a dam actoU lie river
_ VoughiageDny reported in tavo of the petitioner.
The hoate rcfolved itfelf into a committee of
r< j the whole on thu aufwer to the governor's addreis,
L Mr. Ball in the chair—the answer asrsportedhy
"" [ht committee, was agreed upon without amend
inept.
10 I he ari wer was t iken up for a feeond reading
ve intl ehouf;, and wa»adopteO with the following
r -|' addition whifh was mpved by Dr. Leib.
1- h 'j'o eftabKlkour political mftirntions upon a
'*» republican foundation, ws heartily agree
~e with you, was the great chje<S of osrrevolutior
'fs ary contrif, arid **e also trust. that poOerity will
ir never the day, when, by infioi
u- ©us machination!, or by open force, so glorion= :c
;g fcufillatiqp fha'l be updermincd tr overthrown."
he " Atijourne^.Foreign lnteiligence 4
From the Hibert.'uin Cronicle, dated Corky
0 Sober 12.
___
DUBLIN, October g.
In consequence of a determination not to
proceed on the long dcSred filvcr coinage,
two-millions of gold seven (hilling pieces are
preparing at the Tower Mint for the better
accommodation of the public.
The Government provilion contracts hav
ing been all renewed, the slaughtering sea
son is opened here, at a rate without com
parfe; cows of four hundred weight bring
ing the enormous price of 34 (hillings in
the hundred, &nd all other denominations in
proportion!! 1
On Tuesday 23,000 cannon balls, of 18
pounders, were sent to the fortified posts of
the southern situations of this kingdom, with
a number of bomb-shells, The cannon had
been previously sent, besides a large quanti
ty of the bed gun-powder.
Tuesday Mr. Robinson, of Capel-ftreet,
cutler, and an apprentice of his named Col
lier, were apprehended and lodged in con
finement, on a charge of attending illegal
meetings, and administering treasonable
.oaths.
More families have left this country with
in the laA three months than have bean re
membered within the fame periods. The
packets to Holyhead, Parkgate and Liver
pool, have never had so many passengers.
The state of the ccuntfcy had induced many
timid per fori 5 to prefer tfie filter kingdom.
The lob ot such characters would not iu it
felf be a matter of much moment; but as e-
thing which tends to diminish the em
ploy of the working community is a matter
cf f crious cortcern, and as the consumption
of ma iufaft«re« is likely to be affe&ed in a
considerable degree, it is much to be regret
ted.
DIED.— Lad week, in Kent-ftrect
London, a man of the name of Eiterwood,
who maintained himfelf for upwards qf for
ty years by begging. On clearing his a
partment of filth and old rags, property to
the amount of 4751. in gold, silver, and
halfpence, was discovered, sewed up in old
cloaths, and in several crevices in the- miser
able apartment, and which was claimed by
a relation in the neighbourhood, as heir at
law, who never countenanced him in his
life time: but, much to hisdifappointment
the thrifty mendicant had made a Will in
favour of a favorite woman who attended
him all his illness.
Oftober 10. i'i
Lad week, Lord Henry Fitzgerald pre
sented to our gracious Sovereign at St.
James's, the Petition of his fuffering fub
jedis in the county of Kildare.
There were upwards of Six Thousand
lignatures of refpe&ableLandholders to the
county of Kildare petition. n
An express had been dispatched to Car
rickfergus, as we ancipitated, containing
an order for respiting execution for Mr Orr
until Tuesday next.—Prrfs.
The case-os thisrunfortunate gentleman is
peculiarly distressing. It is attended with
eircumftances which, in the minds of all f
candid persons, mud be allowed to havf '
great weight. No motive (h'ould ever in
duce us to interfere with Courts and Juries ; :
but when repentant Jurors come forward to
impeach and invalidate their own decifion—
and when the fate of a man, generally
known and warmly esteemed in his own
country, depends upon such decision, it is
the duty of the press to throw every possi
ble light on the affair.—lbid.
It appears that four of the jurors have vo
luntarily come forward, and made solemn
affidavits to this effeft, after mature delibe
ration : That when they had retired to their
room to deliberate upon the evidence given
against Mr. Orr, liqnor was introduced, and
instead of weighing and comparing eircum
ftances, they proceeded to drink, and to
such a degree, that there was a general in
toxication. In this (late, one of the jurors
used threats to intimidate the reft. He
charged them with harbouring difioyal prin
ciples, and should they refufe to join him in
bringing in a verdict, finding Mr. On guil
ty, he denounced vengeance against them.
Under the intimidation thus produced in the
room, the jury were led {o a (Tent to such
verdift. But the spur Jurors above menti
oned, swear, that even the menaces made a
gainst their persons and dwellings would not
have seduced 'them to so criminal an r.£t,
were it not for the liquor which they had
taken ; and from having been imposed on
by a representation that Mr. Orr's life was
in no danger, as their recommendation to
»ercy, accompanying their verdict, would
infallibly procure him the clemency of Gov
ernment. They further swear, that in their
minds the cafe was doubtful, which they
stated even in the verdidt itfelf.—lbid.
This is the substance of an affidavit duly
made in open court by four of Mr. Orr's ju
rors. It requires no comment. But if fur
ther matter were wanting to induce the lord
Lieutenant, who is bound to administer jus
tice in mercy, to stay the arm of the execu
tioner, it offers in the confefllon of Whitly,
thp principal evidence against him on the
prosecution. This man has deposed on oath
before a inagillrate, that he felt great com
pun&ion of conscience, not only for this
crime which he had committed against Mr.
Orr, but for other crimes—and that what,
he had alledged against Mr. Orr was falfe.
Rt.SVffS. FOR MR. OR R.
II If pafl T<wo o'clock.
We flop th: prrfs to fay, an express is this
moment arrived, bringing a refplte for three
days (viz. to the 1 oth injf.) for Mr. Orr,
in Carriftfergus gaol. IVr have good authori
ty for faying, that intimaiuin is to be giien to
the prisoner, that this respite is granted fur
the purjtofe of allowing the Lord Lieutenant,
to have tin rpj qrtiinity oj feeing Baron Telver
ton, toho fat es judge on Orr's trial, but that
I. e ti:ttj) not cerjid ritat a certainty cf an ul
t in alt pardon.
J _ 5.0.5 GUINEAS VLEIVARD. j
j Whereas informations have been give;! On
P'.th, before.Jifper Lucas, esq. one of his
Majesty's jufticts of the peace for the city
and county of the city of Cork, against Sir
Henry Browne Hayes, and
who. with force and arms felonioufly (topped
a carriage belonging to Cooper Penrofe, esq.
of Woodhill, between the hours of one and
two o'clock, on the morning of Saturday
the 22d of July inft. ordered the ladies out
of the carriage, cut the traces thereof, and
felonioufly forced Miss Mary Pike, daugh
ter of the late Samuel Pike, esq. of the city
df Cork, Banker, fjpmj two other ladies
that were with her, and put her into another
carriage and drove off with her to the house
of the said Sir H. Browne Hayes, at Ver
non Mount, in the South Liberties of Cork
and there detained her fev.-ral hours, with
an intent to force her to marry the said Sir
Henry Browne Hays.
Now, I Richard Pike, uncle to the said
Mary Pike, and Exeentor to her Father,
do hereby offer a reward of Five Hundred
Guineas to any person or persons, that (hall
lodge the said Sir Henry Browne Hayes,
within fix calendar months, in any of his
Majesty's goals in this kingdom, so that he
may be brought to condign punishment for
this so atrocious and henious offence ; and
I do hereby offer the sum of one hundred
gunieas for each and everv of his accomplic
es that (hall" be apprehended and lodged in
like manner, so as they may be brought to
condign punishment for the fame. And in
cafe any of the said accomplices of the said
Sir Henry B. Hayes, shall turn approver,
so as the said Sir Henry B. Hayes, and the
other accomplices in said felony (hall be con
vidted thereof, application (hall be made to
Government forliis Majesty's pardon to such
approver, who (hall be entitled to the re
wards aforefaid, to be piid at Pike's Bank,
Cork.
The said Sir Henry Browne Hayes was
lately a lieutenant in his majesty's regiment
os-militia, commanded by lord Doneraile, is
straight made, rather frefh coloured, a little
pock marked, and brown hair, with re
markable vrhifkers, about five feet seven
inches high, and about forty years old.
N- B. It is not intended that the
person who arrests and lodges in Gaol, the
said Sir Henry Browne Hayes, (hall be o
bliged to prosecute him in order to obtain
the Reward.
RICHARD PIKE.
26th July, 1797.
[The Lord Lieutenant of Ireland has offer
ed a reward of Two Hundred Pounds for
apprehending Hayes.J
%i)t<sa3ctte.
PHILADELPHIA,
WEDNESDAY EVENING, DECEMBER *o.
* The Eaftcrli Mail had not arrived
when this Paper went to Press.
The following intelligence reeeived from our
obliging Correspondent at Ne<u> Tori, was
circulated iu a Hand-bill lajl rivning.
Extract of a letter from New-York, dated
December 18.
The brig Dublin Packet, capt. Green,
this morning arrived in 56 days from Liver
pool, and brings papers to the 14th of Oc
tober, from which we extract the following
official news of the Defeat of the DHtch
Fleet :
" Off the Coajl of Holland, Ofl. T 2th
to the Leeward of the Texel.
" At nine o'clock in the morning got
fight of tne fleet, and at half past 12, Ad
miral Duncan passed through the line of the
Dutch fleet, and the action commenced
which was very The Admirals (hip
was dismasted and struck, as did several o
thers, one of which took fire.
" The Dutch fleet consists of three (hips
of 76 guns, 8 of 64 to (58, four (hips of 54
to 58 guns, one do. of 48.
" The British fleet consists of 8 (hips of
74 guns, 8 of 64, 2 of of 38, 1 of
32 and 1 of 24.
" Nine of the Dutch fleet (heavy {hips)
were taken, 2 of which were flag (hips.'*
The above l's the principal article. In
consequence of the above there had been
much rejoicing and illuminations in London
and principal townb in England.
A letter from New- Tori fays that letters
are received by a refpetlable merchant of New-
Tori, from St. Thomases, of the 23 d ult.Jla
ting that " the French have got orders to cap
ture alt American vessels they can find, without
diflinSion."
MARRIED, — On Saturday evening la ft,
by the Rev. Mr. Abercrombie, SA Ml''El
BAR.Tf.LSON to Miss AmF.LIA AsHMEAD,
daughter of Mr. Jacob Ajhmead of this city.
From A Paris Prper
The day beforeyejlerday, there was a public
dijtribiition of premiums at the ci-devant col
lege of Louis Ic Grand, and eflabli/hment in
flituted by the Legijlative Body, for the educa
tion of the children of patriots ruined by the
Revolution, Citizen Champagne. Director qf
iht College, made a Jpeechfuit(ible to the occa-
Jicn, which was answered by Francois, Neu
fc'nateau, Mhufler of the Interior. , Premi
ums were dijlributedfor Mathematics, Natural
Hi/lory, Latin and French Tranjlations,
Drawing. isfc. The fpeßators appeared a
flonijhcd at the furpri/ing pr?grefs made by the
ytungJludents, and Ihoived marls of the ten
dereji fcnfibility on hearing the names of the sons !
of several illuflrious vit^ii»is of Roberjpierr's
tyranny. —Tears gujhedfrom the minister's
ryes, when he crowned the son of the unfortu
nate and couragetus Phill'tpeaux, his intimate
ner to the pnfejfors, and such rf the Jludents,
as had dijlingurfhed themfeh-e;, at which he
appeared like a tender far!!» r fur rounded by his
friends and his children,
GAZETTE MARINE LI ST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
_
ARRIVED
Schooner Patriot, Hum met Cunaives
Capt. Hammet failed in comrupaay with tin
brig Currier, Wilson of and fur this port, Left
at Gonaives the schooner Maria, Tate, cf this j
fort, to fail in 6 days.
Capt. Ltlar, from Amflerdam, fpole, the
-ftth Nov. lat. 3S, long. 68. the jhip Pat
ty, Hopkins, out 3 days front New-York to
Brifiol. Dec. 4, lat. 36. £O. long 66, I
fpo'k; the /hip Aiknomac, out 5 days from
' Georgetown to Rotterdam, all well.
7he Jhip Roba an ! JSstfey, Co
lumbia, L'elar, and brig dmiUnatus, Baylcy.
are at the fart. " '
The Jhip Liberty, Bray, fur Londonderry,
left Marcus Hoot yeflerday.
Baltimore, Dec, 18. v
Arrived on Friday, schooner Lark capt.
Boyd, 25 days from srqnin. Captain B,yd,
left at rquin schooners Zephyr and . merica,
of Baltimore.
Arrived on Saturday
flip Lydia. captain Todd, 14 days from
Chartejlon 0
A captain of this.port, in 26 days from
Arquin informs that a proclamation had be(tt
rtceived at that place, prohibiting th( condem ■
ration of neutra'property. not contraband,bound
to a Briti/h ijland, but the frrivateers were or
dered to bring them into French ports, where
they would be obliged to fell their cargoes at the
market prices •- Property found going or com
ming from ports originally French, but now in
pojfj/ion of the Briti/h, will as usual, be cap
tured and condemned. The above mentioned
captain was overhauled by the Ratler, Jloop of
war, his letters examined, and after they were
returned to him he miffed a letter from Mr.
1 atec, directed to Jamts M' Ucnjy, Esq.
which was'fuppofedto contain tic above men
t.onedproclamation.
Captain Culhmap of the brig Sally, of this
port, from Jacmel, wat left clear of the Keys,
bound home. He is expected up this day, and
by him it is probable that the intelligence will be
iOnJtrmed.
LONDON, Sep. 22.
On Friday lad a new Synagogue was
consecrated in Denmark-court, by the Rev-
Isaac Levy. The following isa short dletch
of the ceremony. The Books of the
Law were brought from the Vestry room
imo the Synagogue, the bearers pafling un
der a canopy supported by four men j on
their entrance the Reader said, " Blefled be
they who come in the name of the Lord.'—
They were then put into the Ark, and car
ried seven times round the Altar, Psalms be
ing at the fame time sung by the Reader,
the 81ft, 26th, 74th, 122 d, 132 d, and
1 ooth. The Books of the Law were again
deposited in the Ark, when the Reader
sung a Poem, the fame as that sung at the
Dedication of the House of David. At tfre
conclusion of this, three of the Books were
taken out of the Ark, one of which was
given to the principal Reader, who ascend.
Ed the Altar, supported by a Reader on each
fide, with books in their arms, singing a
Hymu in compliment te the~Royal Family,
tg the tune of " G»d Tave the King," ac
companied by a band of mV.ltc. The three
books being again put into the Ark, the
Reader sung a Psalm, and the whole eonclud
ed with the grand chorus of Hallelujah. The
music, which is exceedingly fine, is the com
position of the Rev. Isaac Levy, and not of
Handel, as has been stated in some of the
papers; The donations received on the oc
casion, which are to he applied towards de
fraying the expences of jhe Synagogue,were
liberal, amounting to near jeol.
Places of Worlbipin London and Weftininftfcr.
1 St. Paul's Cathedral
1 WeftTiinfter Alilioy
114. Pari<h Churches
130 Chapel:.
146 Of the Established Religion.
Sa Chapels for Non-eonformifts and Prelby
terian9 of different denominations
56 Independents, of different denominations
23 Anabiprifts
31 Qjakers '
6 Nonjurors, or perfohs who hold allegiance
'o the S'uart family
4 Muggletoniitns
4 Roman Catholics
to? Meeting-Houses of Scotch and English
DifTenters.
8 French Protestants
2 German Lutherians
(> Dutch
3 Swedilh
4 Danish
4 Helvetic
6 Roman Catholics
4 Ruffian J ,
6 Jewilh
49 Placet of Worihip for Foreigners.
75T?,coj pounds sterling are ennuilly expend
ed in Chariiy in the City, by Segal assessments
and voluntary contributions.
164 Public Charitable Inilitutions and Build
«»([»• „ . :
750j000 sterling per annum, given by the
Public Companies of London.
March, '*1797.
French Em'grants in England.
Clergy supported by the Bi>it'ifa go*'
vi-rrpnent, 50C0
Laymen,, with women and children, 1950
Clergy living on their own proptjty
aad indutlry, 500
Lay People, do. 3000
In the Island of Jerfcy, 700
12,15 °
AFFAIRS OF IT ALT.
The following abftra<& of the speech made
by fean Debrie, in vindication of the con
duct of the French'go«rqtoorit wth refpeft
tp Venice and Genoa, it} the council o£ five
hundred on the 12th hilt. is taken from the
Republican Francais .
" One of the conspirators, whose perfidy
you have puiiithsl (Dunjurd), (Ktei-ed, in
this tribune, a proposition tending to en »;:i
---d.r trouble ar-.d difq'iiet in our armies, when,
on the f'ibjoft of the innTdcres commuted on
the French lick at Verona, and, fever.il oth
er eities of Italy, he iufirmited that the di
re&ory or g-'pfcral in chief hatl gnne beyond
their powers in takiilg exemplary vengeance
of the VenAian government. Such con
duft, said he, is contrary to the law of m
tions, and cnlc.nlated to dilhinifh the digni
ty of the French people. He concluded
1 with obtaining the appointment of a Tpccial
committee to make a report 011 this fubjedt
" The 528 th article of the conflitution
dates, that " in the cafe ur hoftifities -im
pending or already commenced; pr
preparation? of war, against the French"re
public, the executive directory ought- to
employ, in defence of the state, the means
placed at its difpoful to fee tire the public
tranquility, provided that due .information
be communicated to- the legislative body."
" But it is fufficient to read the manifefto
of general Buonaparte, to be convinced that
the dire&ory was juftifiable in its conduit
towards* Venice.
" The partizans of despotism employed
'hemfelves in calumniating the French, in
treating them as jacobins, terrorists and regi
cides ; they irritated the people against the
French government ; and the Venetians 1
were in confluence, seen to affaffi.iate our
generous soldiers, to poignard them public
ly, and heard to ring, a second time, the
Sicilian vespers for the dtßruftion of our ar
mies. They united Cowardice to. ferocity,
and availed themfelvss, in their attack, of
the moment when it was reported that the
French fled before the Archduke.
" Buonsrparte soon after repelled th;.- ag- :
grefiion, and triumphed. His enemies be
came fupplaints; a negociation was entered
on, and surely the right of war permits to
itljpofe laws on the vanquished. With re
gard to Genoa, the multiplied a£ts which
have embroiled it in war with us, have been
already publiihed. Genoa, oftener than
once, displayed its favour for England ; and
one of our frigates was a (Faulted by the Ge
noese in their very ports.
" But, besides, does it become us to re»
proach nations with (hakingoff theirchains?
On this principle wefhould accufetheFrench
for having annihilated the throne on the 10th
of Augult. Did not the numerous victo
ries which have signalized the war of liber
ty, hold forth grand examples to more than
one people ? And wa3 not the admiration
excited by the exploits of French republi
cans, capableof rotifing more than one neigh
boring qation to imitate us ?
" The chief ruin of Venice was its despo
tic aristocracy, its crooked policy, its secret
ambition, and punic faith. It is not, there
fore, the conduft alone of Venice withref
peft to us, but also the radical vice of its
Oligarchic government,which operated the
deftruAiori of that State. Nor are there,
probably, any but the molt itifamoufly per
fidious, who would consider the French go
vernment as criminal -in having repelled vio
lence by force, and in having puni/hed Laf
fafilns.
' t ' The excesses of demagogues have been
every where repressed in Italy by the French
government: every where the liberty of
worship has been refpedted ; but were the
dire&ory to negleft the means of securing
to the republic the fruits of her vidtories ?
" Let us always aft in fiicli a manner that
other governments may dread to go to war
with us, and wilh to preserve peace.
" I return thanks, in the name ou the
peace which the defender! of liberty have
conquered for us—l return thanks t» the
French government,for having made so good
a life of its triumphs. A conqueror form
erly human facrifices among the
Gauls : our generals and soldiers have imi
tated this excellent example, by deflroying
the mondcr feudality in the countries which
they might have governed by the
right of conquest. I move that the com
mittee appointed on the sth of Meflidor on
the motion of Dumolard, be immediately
difiblved.
The motion was agreed to unanimoufiy,
and the speech of Jean Debrie was ordered
to be printed.
WASHINGTON LOTTERY, No. 11.
List of Prizes and Blanks.
day's Drawing—Oil. 7.
No. Dols. foo. Dols. No. Dots. No. Dels.
213 x 11103 *5636 36785
23.1 x 350 x 750 37263
338 x 568 777 678
757 tiij: x 26577 x 680
1047 13831 27444 25 707 20
174 x 838 586 38554
566 • 857 x 9*7 x 3937 t x
765 977 x 88640 40163
845 14454 726 x 6ro
2024 15315 x 853 x 7;6
110 x 898 x 29C00 776
91.9 16049 921 41078
3020 x -417 30602 096
942 71 6 4*4 *.54
422 x .946 25 473 42196
449 x 1.8312 579 * 43947 x
&74 472 602 959
688 478 685 965 x
725 960 100 31376 ?t 448*5®
879 191-67 x 779 45672
43*9 454 x SO7 4659?
500 558 25 897 x 766 x i
.5089 872 984 Bc9
riß 2189(1 32330 x 472.63
239 x 22109 450 x 323
966 x 167 x 580 590
$055 433 33096 784
I 393 486 425 990 20
| 575 X 789 437 4301.<
7561 23C03 468 x 656
734 325 689 x foo
I 830 360 702 632
1 909 64* 34*80 7-33 x
959 *4.529 497 49377 *
I 8362 651 x 35'6i x 725 23
■ 9579 25297 356 x 884 x
lono 342 381 x
330 572 36069 x
A Bank Note Found. ,
The o\Tner moy bca-- v.'h»rc it m-y be received,
by applying St this office, Mid pa; ing fo> the ad
ve tilement.
ja. *1
' - - - V ■
THIS EVENING,
DECEMBER 20,
Will lie prcfinted. a COMEDY, oi'lcd i!i
GO UN TRY G I RL,
To which will ! c iidrid a fyrcc iri two ac.il
caJlrd the
IRISHMAN IN LONDON,
In whic'i Mr. Hardinge will make his firfl appear-"
cn tjiis ftagc. .
On Friday, the favorite Comedy of Evety ci 1
Ut 1,1, hau /—ill which jVlr.<. and Miss 'Harming.;
will mate their firtt appj-rance—with Three
after jVtjrriarr;<
Oo,SaturT'he &'iountaitusrt y with Entertain
ment's.
Box, on- Defter * Pit, three quarters of a Dol
lar ; atft! Gallery, half a Dollar.
• ; ' '•' do/rs or the 1 lu'ativ will open at Eve,
end the curtain rife,preflifcdy at (it o'clock. *
lor the Hoxe a to he taken at the Office irt
front of the Theatre, from io tiil 3 o'clock,
and from io till 4 on tjir.days of performance.
Tickets to he had at H. and Rice's borfk-Core,
No. so Market-street, an:! at tJ;e Office adjoining
the Thcare. . T r iyAT RJ'SPUBIJCA !
, Wanted to Charter,
v"V A Eritiih veflW, fifteen hundred
to two thousand five hundrtd bar
burthen.
JplfeLX Apply to
Peter liligl't, «
WHO HAS F R SALT.
Choice Red Fort Wine 111 pipes and hrgdieads,
and old London Particular Madeira, fit lor inline-
"life, in pipes
Decern' rr m § IW
; T ; Ol TSA L E,at~
Wm, Young's Book Stire,
No. c?.. Second street, the oojrier of Chefnut ftrect,
"3) EPORT of the Co'-iniittgft of the House of
I V iief refentativesol tf:r: United Stitfs,-.vincir.t
edtojire- i-e and rcp-irt :.•» rtiJet of tiupjsicbm.'n*
again? rfILLI \M BLOUNT, a San.-.; r <£ the
Uni e v ! Staaa, imp.-ached of l.i , ; 'n crinns and mif
demcari rs.'rndpin pnrfuanceo a infolution o
the Houfi/of Repr.'fentatives, authorising t'ie fa- I
Committee to fit during therecefi ol'Contrrcfv, ar..i
inftruiling them « to enquire, and,, l.y all lawful"
" mean?, todifcovor the \v'ko!c nature an
" of the offence whereof the (aid Willi n 1 . 1 :
" stands impea^he. 1 , and who are t!» ").* rti' > -.n i
" affoc'iates therein "
Printed by order of the Hovfe »f fteprsfefi- ti- ■> .
Decim'jcr 10.
Mrs. GR A YY A
RESPECTFULLY inform* the Ladies and G
tlemer of the city, that her firfl CGINCEk !
of Vocal Music will be on Th'urfday next, the sift
of December, init. at Mr. Richardet's.
ACT 1.
Quartette, 1 Pleyel
Str.g—Angels ever bright, Handel
Glee—Mefirs. Carr, Datley, jun. and Hill,
The Mariners
Sosg—Mr. Carr
Duett—Mrs. Grattan and Mr. Carr, PaiTeillo
Song—Mr, Darley, jun,
Scotch Glee—Mrs. Grattan, Messrs, Carr, Darley;
Hill.
ACT. 11.
Concerto Piano Forte, (by a young lady) Viotii
Song—Mrs. Grattan, Sacchini
Glee—Meffb, Carr, Darley and Hill, Jackfen
Duett—Mrs. and Mr. Carr, Time
[has r.ot thin'd
Song—Mr. Darky, jun.
Quartette —Mrs. Grattan, Melfrs. Carr, Darley
and Hill.'
Six dollars fach fuhferiber for one ticket of ad
mittance during the season.
No fubferibers ticket transferable, but any fuh
fcriber on paying his liibfcription, will have a right
to demand tickets for the unmarried part of his fa
mily, which ticket will admit them every night
during the season, but arenot transferable.
The Concert to begin at half paS fix and the mu';
He to attend fbr the Ball at eight, th: expense ol'
which Mrs. engages to discharge. '
Non-tuhfcribers ticket—l dollars.
Sjib'criptiont received and ticket* delivered by
Mr*. Grattan'sclerk, at No. I9i, High-llrcet,
Non-ftibferibers tie'retsto be had the day of the
Concert at the Bar at Mr. Richardet's.
jf/" Mrs: Grattan finding that the plan ff her
Concert is mifconceir'd, refpeitfully informs the
public that it is the fame as the City .\ffembly
December if dtaif:
CLERKSHIP.
A YOUNG MAN, who co'.fM Viring iiuiifpu
table is detirousto be cm
ed in the cipacity of copying Clerk, at a public
office—He would engage on moderate terms.
For further particulars enquire at the offi ct of th
Gazette. § Dec
Pcnnfylvania Population Com
pany.
THE Shareholders are hereby notified, that an
F.Wlioil of Officers for the ensuing year, will be
held at the Cw'tipany'soffice, n0.53, north Fourth
flreet, on Wednelday, the 10th day of January
next, at ii o'clock.
3y order o the Board,
SOL. MARACHE, Set'ry.
December 16 » eodtiothj
Philadelphiaand LancafterT urn
pike Company.
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, that the
annual EleiSion for Officers for the ensuing
veir.wi'U be held at the Company's Olfice in Phila
delphia, on thefecond Monday in January next, at
100'cl.ck, a. m. Wm. GOVETT, Sec'ry.
Decern! cr 7. - ats m&wt7J
Insurance Company of North
America.
A Meeting of the Stockholders is to he held. a.
grecably to adjournment, at the Company's office,
on Monday in January next, at II o'clock,
a. m. EBEN. HAZARD, Sec'ry.
December 14. th&mtiftj
Infurancq Company of North
America.
THE Stockholders arc hereby informed, that a
flatcd meeting of the Company will be held at
their cHScc on th; ninth day of January next (be
ing the second Tuefvlay in the month) for the Elec
tion of twenty-five Qire&ors for the ensuing year.
BEEN. HAZARD, Scc'ry.
December 14. th&tnt9thj
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
No. no Walnut-street,
INFORMS those who wish to to the only
means of becoming perfetfl; in the French Lan
guage, that he has jull opened his Libp vry, cc::-
fitting of upwards of lzso volumes, theljeft raL«<
culated to aJFord eirtier ufcl'ul or j'!e. -
Pure. The conditions, tosretWr wirh a catalo'Mi''
of the Library, may be seen it evry boc-'-fclitr's
m town.
n. b. Ail from and the 1'; : nrh,
English and SpatiifK l;n%guagci» exseuten with ic
curat)' and eoim t;r-v. 1.5.FOR SALE, 1
By the Su3SCRim.R, at hii btov-', Ko. y;, Sou:'.» |
Water-flreet,
A general affartm2ot cf China
Ware
Black and coloured Saftios
Do. do. LnteOrmgs
Do. d«. Handkerchiefs
Do. (jo* fewirgj>i!ks
la.prrial and Hyson Tca«
and Ihort Nax.keens
Quick in tubs
Holland Gin, in pipes
Afibr-td G'afs Ware, in Cases
W Kite p.n,! brown Havar.na Swgar?, in boxes
MoJ-.flc", in. hogOicad*
M. Croit Rum end in do.
.London particular Madeira Wine
Sherry and MaUga Wines, in quart'r cases
Red, yellow &nJ pale Barks, in chcfts
Logwood, &e. scc.
*c» 7.—tu&f<\v JOSEPH sm&.
For Sale, by the Package,
For cjiJh, or good notes at sixty or ninety days,
viz. .
Book and Jaconet Muslins plain")
itripes, and Checks j , ~ . , ■
, ' , , . ! Aflorttd in
t.o. do. 1 ambourea j> ,
ilo- Ladies handkerchiefs, & j ' lac a °"" s '
gc :.:lemeii's neck do. J
jjiconet chintz trmflin for home and the \Vefl
India market; Plilbcote and linen handkerchiefs,
tor do. <!o printed do. do. common purple and v
chintz (bawls. \
The above goods entitled to drawback on ex
jfiirtation. Alio a few scotch catnbricks anc( an
of ir.uflin by the piece.
ihe whole-os the above being a configoment
fro'n the in»nufa<9a r ers in Britain.
To be fetn at William Blackburn's
Office, No. 64, South Second Street.
Nov. C. uwtf.
Imported in the (hip Man Chester,
Benjamin Shewell, Master,
From Bourdeaux, and for sale by the fubl'criber,
No. 11 Walnut Street.
Bonjjleaux Brandy "J
Irish market claret in cases / Entitled to ,
Medoc wine, in do. l" Drawback. |
Snutprne, do. " do. J
Thomas Murgatreyd. | :
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quartor calks
Rota do. • do.
Pimento in bags
4000 buftiels Liverpool fait. '
Aug. 24. tutSestf- !
*—Z 1
Landing, !
From on board the (hip Edward, at Walnut
flrset Wharf, ,
London particular Madeira Wine,
of a lupcrior quality, For Sale by the fubfetiber.
Robert Andrews.
nevember j. eotf I
Samuel 8c Miers Fiflier, '
ARE NOW OPENINO,
At thfir Warehouse, No. 27, Dock Street, a frefh '
affortmcnt of Woolen and other goods, ftiitablc to 0
the ft.ifon, received by the late arrivalt from Enr
lun'd. 0
Thei have at fa far Sale, 1
Lifboh '
Sherry £ln pipes, hhJs. Jid quarter casks. S
Port Wines, J
Afiorted queen's ware ip crates, &c.
loth ma-23d. diwjtatvjw.
TOOALIg; c
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. 55-, (he corner of Chefnut and Front flreets,
A large quantity of Clocks and j
Watches, Also, a general aflortment of Tools,
Biles and Materials, cosfifling of Clock Move
ments, eight day and thirty hour brass pinions ' ,
and fergc work ; Bells, clock and watch Dials, j
Springs, Hands, GlalTei, Punice Stone, Emery,
Hott»n Stone, Cat Out; bench, (land and tail
Vices; Turns, Pliers Chains, Seals, Keys, &c. Ice. P
* # * Apprentices Wanted.
novembcr f&tutf j.
Yellow Fever and Pestilential e<
Diseases.
re
;rH[S DAY IS PUBLISHED, in one vol. oflavo. '
By William Young, Bookseller,
No. 52, Second ilrect, the corner of Chefnut flreet, m
(PrUe, in boards, 87 I * Cents) of
Neatly printed on fine American wove medium
Paper,
A VIEW T
Of the Science of Life ;
On the principles established in tha elements V.
of Medicine, of the late celebrated co
JOHN BRO WN, M. D. Pr
With an attempt to correal some important er-' pii
rors ef that work, and cases in chief- ch
ly feledfted from the records of their practice, at flo
the General Hofpjtal at Calcutta, go
Br William Tat&s & Chas. M\cleak.
To which is subjoined, a Treatise on the a&ion. ; n ,
of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica- Jc
tioa f'orthe cure of dileifes of indire<ft debility Q f
Andadiflertation on the sources of Epidemicand.
Peftilentialdif#afes; in whichisattemptedtoprove
by a numei ous induilion of faiSls, that they ne
ver aril'c from contagion, but are always produ-
oed by certain states, or certain viciSituilee of F<
the atmofpliere, by Charles Maclean, of
CaicutM.
Nov. tt. Jizt
School Books and Stationary, u
W. Y 61j NG, °»
j e(
No. si, Second-tlreet,' cornsr of Chefnut-flrect,
HAS now ready for falc, a very large alfort
msnt of Engtfjb, Frt-nth y Latin and Greet
SCHOOL Alfa, such elementary books
on Science, as are generally read in the academies
and colleges throughout the United States. W
LATELY NJUHSUED, \\
Sheridan's Diiftionary, the sixth edition, in one. f^ r
-large vol. 8 vo price 3 dols. Tv
Ditto, large 12 mo price 1 dol. 75 «fs. vv;
Ditto, common, price I dol. 50 cts. j- ()1
All forts of drawing, packing, printing, and | ,
writing ftptr ; Eookbinder's Boards, Pafleboards,
(hcathiiig and blotting Papers; printed Blanks,
blank Books, Wax, WJ'fers, and other articles, ef 1( j
the best quality, used in t!-ie counting heufe, or nl
public office.
Cati'.ogucsof a miscellaneous colleflion of * r; '
BOC7ICS, with the price of each affiled, to be had P ri
by inquiring as above. OA. 24. — saw few
A person well acquainted with
the theory and prailiceof book- keeping, who Insfeecn
manyyearscngagedinbufinerstorhimfelf andothem, j !
would be glad to be employev!,' cipher as an agent A
or fa&or; or in porting books ; dating unsettled R '
accounts ;or ir. executing any other kind of writ- Ph
latC, in Frenchorßafcli.a, to'
"yV note addr»fTed to J. A. and left at this office, acc
will be punctually attenu;d to. w<s
november 30. 3awtf J
I N O T I C E.
| AI Xj persons concerned are Hpi cby n'-tii-i'. j,
£A. that t«ve i'lVfcriber intends 'o apply for a re-
nev.al. o!" the under men tiosied certific;:' es of
Stock in rhe I3a-.k of the United Ststss —He for
warded them under cover of ? letter addressed to
fohn Anflcy,o{-London, by the fa p liacchu*, c. pt.
Gcorg-e. which left this-port in June lall for Lon
don. Out that fiiip having; bten captured or. her
railage an;', France, the ahovc: letter and m
ciofures have failed in their declination.
Three vW
Nos. 26325, 2632-6, 26327, each for
four (hares, dated January 1 ft, 1797, and
ifTued in the name of Henry Grace, of Tot
tenham Higlicrofs, Great Britain.
ZACCHEUS COLLINS.
Philadelphia, november &. 2aw6w
notuHL "
THK Stockholders oftlie Bank of the United
State*, are informed thai acc«rcling to the
flatiKe of Incorporation a general Eleilion fur
s twenty five Direilors will be held at the Bank
of,the United States in die.Citjrof Philadelphia,
on Monday the firfl day of January next at ten
o'clock in (he forenoon.
And pursuant to the Eleventh feilion of the
j Bye Laws the Stockholders ps the said Bank
j arc hereby notified to afiemble in general Mect
ing at the fame place o*l Tuesday the fefeond
5i day of January next at five o'clock in the E
j-* veninjr.
| By order of the Board of direiflors,
G. SIMPSON, Cathier.
n Second fundamental Article.
Not more than three fourths of tne Direflori
t in ofiice, exclusive of the President, shall be e
; legible for th« next fucreeding year, but the
s 1 I)irei£lor who fball be President at the time of an
! Ele<slion may always be re-elccjed.
1 Philad.-lphia, nov.jß. 1797. ft#
English Grammar,
• t The feeond edition, ivith improvement *,
ADA f TED to the different classes of learners;
with an appendix, containing rules and ob
fcrvatiosifor alliftingthe more advanced (ludents
to write with perfpicuiiy and accuracy,
By LINDLEY MURRAY.
" This is 1 publication of much merit, and fully
I answers th« profeflions in the Title. The appen
dix contains some of the best rules for writing e
legantly, and with propriety, that we recolleS to'
have seen.' 1
Monthly Review, July 1796.
«' This Grammar is, on many accounts entitled
t» commendatory nstice, its materials have been
carefully and judiciously felcded ; its arjangemeut
- is diftinii and well adapted to the purpofc of in
flrucftion and its expression is fimplc, perspicuous
and accurate, &Ci"
,See the character at large in the Analytical
Review, July 1796
English Exercises,
Adapted to the Grammar lately publilhed by
I.indley Murray, confiding of exemplification of
the parts of speech; inftancesof sals* orthography,
! violations of the rules of fyn:ax, defects in punc
tuation, and violations of the rules refpe<flins[
t perspicuity and accuracy, designed f»r the benefit
| of private learners, as well as for theufe ef fckooli.
"We have been much p leafed with the petuGal
of theft Exercises. They occupy with difiinguiQi
cd excellence a moll important place in the fcicncc.
of the English language; and as fact, we can
warmly recommend tf.em to tti* Teachers of
Schools, as well os to all those defirouk
attaining and psrecifion in their native
tongue."
Monthly Review, Jnly
The above Books are for sale at jo'sxru & Jaucs
Crukshanks book dors, No. 87, Market rtrect.
December I. jtawiw.
coliJmbTa house
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. G»iOOMBH11)G£ wkh much pleas
ure and refptdl, returns her sincere *c
j krtowledgement for the liberal encouragement
j she has received during four years refidenae in
Philadelphia ; and allures Jier friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, she has made a superior arrangemant for
'the more convenient accommodation of htr
scholars.—Every branch of ufefnl and polite
education is particularly attended to by Mra.
Groombridge and mafteri excelling in their
refpeflive profeflions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, i 797. Jimfrf
The lituat'»n is perfeiffly healthy ; and made
more agreeable by an extenftve garden and lot
of ground adjoining the hmtfe.
For Sale,
That wellinorunplace,, called Vandegxiti's
f r r r v,
ON Nefhaminy creek, 18 miles from P|iil*-
ladelphia, oti the. New Yotk poll road,
containing 74 acres and 94 perclres. Upon the
premifei are a large two ltory stone hcufe occu
pied as a tvern, and a good one story stone kit
chen, a large frame stable with a good threshing
, floor, and some out buildings—also a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
this place is a modeUgant-fitujtion foragentle
man s feat, commanding a view of the Nefham
iny to its jumflion wiih the Delaware, and thence
acrofsto the Jerfev shore. It has the privilege
of one half ihe toll received from the liridge.
For terms apply to the SahTcribcr,
MORDECAI LEWIS,
For sale or to be let on
rent,
Aipaloable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-eiftcorner of Wal
nut and Fifth ftrects, fronting the State-
House square. This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walnut flreet, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth" flreet ; (here are at
prtfent two ftnall two llory brick houses, aYid a
number of small tenements thereon.
Also, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses !
With convenient flores, wharf, &c. situate on 1
Waier-flreet, between Mulberry and Saflafras I
streets, containing in front on Water flreet sis- j
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth eafl- '
ward ninery-five feet, then widening to the '
south thirteen feft fix inches. TJlefe hdufes '
ave the convenience of a public alley adjoining x
on the north fide, and are a very defirabie fitna- 1
Hon for a merchant, flour fa<Hor,or others who
may have occasion for ftoragc of goods. This 1
property will be fold on #ery reasonable terms c
for cafli . For further information apply to the -
priritfir.
July .It- mScwtf '
The History of Pennfvlvania, '
By ROBERT PROUD, a
IS now in the press, and will be publiftied,
with all convenient expedition, by Zicha
f-r A H Poulson, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet, '
Philadelphia, where fubfcrfplions will continue
to be received, nnd at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed propcfals, until the
work is ready for the fubferibeu. 1,
July 18. aawtf
~ Uriah Smith,
No. aa ) nf) rtii Third -street—has run sa l.
f A neat am? general aflbrtmrm oi'
' Broad Cloths,K.erfeymcres,Napt
••in i Dr'.b Coatings. also,
A variety of Gcntlernens' fafhionahle fancy Waifl
r coating, fifk Hollery, &c.
Pec cm her 5. ♦ *eodrw
~~ NOW LANDING^
From onboard the fiiip Firmer, lying at Harper's
r Wharf,
1 Claret in hhds.
pitto in cases
Siiuerne Winsjn do.
ror Sale,.apply to. . • 1
"John IVhiieJidc & Co.
No. t;,B, f arJcet-llreiA.
Alfoy lm hand,
» Bordeaux £ randy in pipes
JWpe oJd Antigua Rliai
AfeW cases of Claret, of-a superior cpjality*
L
; 71? he Sol J f
The time of a Negro Boy,
About fifteen years of age, has seven years yet
to fcrve ; he is an excellent house servant, aetive
and hcat'hy. Enquire of the Printer.
December 2. dlw
i To Gentlemen who intend finding
the Winter in the City!
ROOMS to LET,
WITH or without Boar^l —at No. 114, corner
of Sixth and Race Streets. The situation
agreeable—and viciuity has been fre&'from the late
contagion. Oel. ij.—dtf
_______ _
By JOHN MILLER, jjun. & Co,.
No. 8, Chflnut-ftreet,
Otie hundred and eighty bales
BENGAL GOODS,
Amongfc which"are,
Gurrahs M.tiu'jodies
Ba-'tas , Sannas
Gutzenahs 'Tan da ColTaes
Guzzirs , Emerib
Rlu« Cloth* Calicoes
Pa!ampobts v Romail Handkeichiefs
Amongit them are a proportion of the
, manufactures £f B»tna.
December I. §
DA.WCIN6 SCHOOL. "
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL prefuits his
moll refpe.Ctful compliments to his form
er emplcyersjind the citizens in general, aid re
turns his molt grateful thanks, for the very
bountiful encouragemeut he has experienced for
tnele twenty-five years past, takes this opportu
nity of informing them, that his &hool is now
open, at his
Elegant Ball Room,
in South Fourth-Street,"between Chefnut and
Waltut-ftreets. To begin at 10 in the morning
for young ladies, and i in the evening for young
gfHilemen. 1
His firft Practicing Ball will be to-morrow
evening, Saturday, the 9th inft.
Dec. 8. 23wtf.
• All Persons
Having any demands aga ; n/l the Eflate of the
U*« Captain Qoorge Irwin, are requeued to
hfing in tjjfir accounts piope.rly ittefted, on or
before the firft day of January next tnfuing
aiid'fhoft wtSrii* ir.rfebred to fatd eftau are so
licited to 'tnake immediate payment to
SaRAH IRWIN, Administratrix.
nwv.i 9 1797. |$
Geenteel Boarding & Lodging.
Al'njiily niay be with a Draw
ing Room, two Bcjd Chambers, and fuitabde
accommodation tor ferfrants—at no. 53, north
Fourth street. \ Dec. s—*tti5 —*tti
Samuel Pleafants Ssf Sons,
N,o. 74, South Sccondflreet,
HAVE received a supply of SeafonableGOODS,
which they arc now opening for tale, 011
reafonabl« terms. Oit.aj.— 4W
Muftcal Injlrument Mamtfaßory,
167, Arch-street.
TO THE LOVERS OF HARMONY*
HARPER,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he has
now ready for sale, a few of his sew invented,
and much admired fide board ,Piano Fortes, with
Pedals.patent swell, fonopahant and French harp
stop, which for fcnfibility of touch, brilliancy of
tone, simplicity and durability of conftru&ion, the
superiority of which,he flatters himfelf, a finglc tri
al will convince the unprejudiced judge—As fliey
are manufactured under his immediate infpeihon,
of the very beA fcafoned materials, he eau fell 011
reasonable terms for Cask. Itiftrurtunts repaired,
tuned, & c.
N. B. .Second hand Piano Fortes taken in ex
change for new.
Hrvcmltr 18. lawamo.
Wants a place,
AS a WetNurfir, a young w»man, who can
beweUr*ccnjrr.ended. Inquire in Eleventh
street, ne:r Race-street. Nov. 27.
'eodiw.
This Day PubliOied,
And to be fold by WII.I,IAM YOUNG, sornerof
Second and Chefnut streets,
Price 3-Bthi of a Dollar,
Observations oft certain Documents
Contamod in No. V and VI of
" The History of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In which the charge of speculation against
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late SiicaaTAiiv of the Treasury, is FULLY
REFUTED.
IF KITTEN BT UIMSELt.
This publication presents a ccncife statement
of the base means pra&ifcd by th« Jacobins of the
United States to afperfc the charaflers of ihofa,
psrfonswho are contidtredas holtile to their difor
gariziug schemes. It also contains tlic -cor
respondence between Mr. Hamilton and Messrs.
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venable, on »he fub
jeit sf thedotuatentsaforefaid,and a series of let
ters from James l&iynolds aiidhis wife to Mr. Ha
milton, provihg beyond the poffibiiity of a doubt,
that the conneclion between him and Reynolds,
was the refuir irf a daring eonfpiracy on the part
of the letter and his affeciates to extort money.
£s* A difcoiwt of one third from the retail price
will be mad<) in favor ol wholefaic purchafity, for
casii. Ordersib beaddrtffed to Mr Youmc.
25.
"FOR SALS, ~
Several fonts of Types—half worn.
Including Long Frimer, aljotit 403 weight, in
good condition, and would answer the purpose of
a country printer as well as new.
Knquire cf the Printer- nov. 30.
Act laying Duties on Stamped Vellum
Parchment and Paperi
A L 7 EW eopief of the above ait may he had aj
he Office of the Gazette of the United States, No
19, CheThut-flreet. July 19^
I , .New Afkmbly Room,
! Fourth flrett, between Chefnut and Walnut
streets.
Mr, FRsINCFSy
OF THE NEW-THEATRE,
RESre JTFULLY informs his scholars and the
public in general, thai his Academy for Danc
ing will commence, for the feafoy, on Thursday,
December n, at the *hnvs
ELEGANT ROOM ;
\ When he hopes to recciyc iht continuance of fheir
accustomed patronage, vhich it will be his unre
mitting endeavor to deserve.
The days of teaching for his young pupil* are
Thurfiafs and Saturdays, from 3 o'clocki'n the
attenioon til' 6, and from 6 till for thofl; of
wiore advanced age.
As an accomir.oilation to those living this vi
cinage, Mr Francis intends to inftruft afmall
p?rty of children on VVednefday and Friday alter
noons, at his house.
Diftin& from tlie Pr?ilifing Balls, Jjlr. Fa ancis
will have lour private feledl iiublcriptiotj Ball^.
Private teaching, either at the Academy,'or* his
houie. «
Mr. firfl; Pra<slifing BuU will be on
Tuesday, 19th Dec. at the New Aifembly Rvom.
Ladies 3nd Gentlemen's tickets to be had» by
applying tp Mr. F. as ulual.
For further particulars, enquire of Mr. F. No.
, 70, north Eighth street. Dec. 11— mwftf
Imported in the brig Eliza,
Capt. HA s TIE, _/rom Bourdeaux ;
Claret in Cases of a very superior quality,
White Sautcrne Wine in Cases,
Olive Oil in balkets of 1 a bottles each,
White and coloured Kid Gloves,
do. dp. Silk do. • ,
A few pipes of Bourdeaux Brandy,
For Salt by
JAMES t ATIMER, jun.
7[, South Wharves.
Who has also for Salt,
A few qr. Caflcs Old Sherry Wine.
Dec. diw
For Sale by the Subscriber,
10 bales CoiTas
40 do. Baftas
It do. Mamopdy
17 do. Chimn
7 do. TooUery
1 da. Gorahi
45 do. Meragungecs
3 do. Check Stripes
I do. Guzzic
I box Diapers
7 do. Umbrellas
iS pipes fined particular Maieira Wine, of
the vintage I7yj.
MORDECAI LEWIS.
December 5* 3aw4w 1
Thomas Randall,
PRESENTS his refpeih to his Friends, and the
Pub}ic in general, informs them that he has opened
an Office, at his house, No. 83, Spruce street, for
the purpose of tranfaiting business in the line of
Conimimoo and Agency, collecting rents and out
(landing claims in uny part of the United States.—
He flatters himfelf, that from his long residence in
this country and a general knowledge of it, h's fer
clces will be found worthy the notice of those who
may please to confide to him the management of
any of their concerns.
N- B. Security given where required.
Ilth mo 24 jtawtf
City of YVafhington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, £To. 11,
For thu Improvement of the Fe/iffal City.
A magnificeatdwrlling-houfe 20,00 c dollars,
& cafii 30,000, ire 50,000
1 ditto 15,000 & caflt 15,000 +O,OOO
1 dAtp 15,000 Sc ca(h 15,000 30,000
1 ditto io,o«o & calh :0,000 10,000
I ditto 5,000 h ci(h 5,000 :o,aoo
1 ditto 5,000 & ciQ) 5,000 10,000
1 calh prize of in,ooo
i do. s,oooeach,are « 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - io,oq.c
10 do. 500 - - : 0,(100
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
too do. 50 - - 10,1100
400 do. »j to,noo
1,000 do. jo - ' 10,000
15,00® do. • 10 i^»,ooo
'S.7J9 Priies.
33,»Jl Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, it Eight Dollar., 400,00e
N. B. To fsvpur those whs may take a quan
tity of Tickets,th2 prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the l a3t drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the i.ast
but onk :
And approvfdnotes, securing payment iceither
mon.y or prizes, ip ten days alter drawing, will
be received sot any number not left than 30 tick,
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of
the priirate buildings {» be erefled in the Gity of
Wathington—Two beautiful designs arc already
(elected for the eptire fronts on two of the publh:
squares; from those drawirg;it ispropofed toerecl
twocentreamd r ourcerne'r baildiogs as soon aspof
fible after this lottery is fold, and to convey di«nv,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner described in the fchemc for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduction of Cvje per cent, will
be made to defray the neceflary expenses of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will.be made a part cf
the fund intended for the National Uoiveruty, to
be erected within the city of Washington.
The real fecurittesgiven for the payment of the
Prizes, are held by the PreSdent and two Direct
ors o£ the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount of the lottery.
S/IMUBL BLODCFT.
,§, Tieketsmay be had at the Bank of Colism
hia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter
Oilman, Boston ; of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
<and of Uichard W«T|s t Forry. nwf
Peale's Museum.
THI3 valuable repofienry of the.works of Na
ture, so calculated to delight the mind
and enh.rgc the understanding, is opened daily, as
usual. It in an airy and healthy fituauon,
and free from the epijeh mic that at. prcfent ufEids
tUc city ; it may, therefore ; be frequented vuith
the greatest fafety.
As an Awufcment, the Hu«dy of Nature is the
mod rational .u>d pleating : as a Scitnte, the moll
sublime and inflrutfive. It elevates the mind aud
expands'the heart. They
" Whtm Nature* t ivorit can ivith Go J himfclj
" lIoIA cc;i.v*rfc."
Many interfiling additions have'htely been
made to this Muieum : a- d the ieatheved tribe,
containing a variety of the most rare and beautiful
:s now very . advantageously arranged.
Waxen Figures, of Men l«*rge a* life (fomeofthem
calls from nature) are fcerc dressed ia their proper
habitf,aud placed in attitudeschara&eri&ic of thtir
refpcAive nations. Here may be seen the North-
American Savage, and the Savage of South-Ameri
ca—* labopingv Cliinefe, and the Chincfe Gentle
man—the sooty African, and the Kamtfchadak--
with f->tne Nacives of the South Sea lflands. The
immense variety and ittttrefting diversity vliich
this Mufcum offers to the view, may be fe?« hut
oannot be defcribcd with full eft<i&.
•£jT Price only l-4th of a do!lir.-
Seyt. *S.
A farm for fuie,
IN Ferfh Amboy in the {late of New-Jerfcy,
of four hundred at-res, including a proper
proportion of meadow, of arable and wood
land, ami fait inarfh ; There is on the premitefc,
a good apple orchard, and a variety of other
fruit trees, it u well watered with fprirgs and
brooks, it is bounded on two fides with navi
gable waters and has a good mill site, its situa
tion is healthy and pleasant, commanding a
view of the navigation of Perth Ambey and its
environs, and convenient to 1 the fined fi(h and
oysters in their proper season, it abounds with
natural manure from which, with the advanta
ges of the fait marsh by applying the hay there
irom to the keeping of Hock, may at a finall
expense, be enriched to a great degree and ren
dered one of tfce firlt grazing farms in the state ,
it is well calculated for a farmer' or a gen.tie
man's feat, having several eligibJe sites for
building.' This farm will be fold together or
divided, as may fait a purchaser, at private
sale, or if riot fold, will be ftt up at public
tion on Tuesday the niueteenth day of Decem
ber next, at the hou.fe of Robert Rattoone, inn»
keeper in Perth Ambay, at eleven o'clock in
the forenoon. Anyperfon inclining topurchafe
may view the premises by application to Jihrt
or Mutth'int Hal/led at Perth Amboy, from
whom or from the Hon. Jonathan I)nyton, Esq.
speaker of the house of reprefentaiives of the
United States now in Philadelphia, from Mat
thias lVilliamfon,yii\. efq. or Mr. Samuel Smith
at Elizabeth-Town further information may be
obtained,—and who are pofTeffed of maps of
the fame. '
Perth Amboy, Nov. 16, 179;.
5 —godtißD
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, propaGng to contract hi» busi
ness, offers this Estate |for sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one and three Air Furnaces,
« complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grit
Mill, with two pair of stones ; also a good Forge, all
in pcrieft repair, as aie all the Water Works conned
ed with these various branches. Hie Air Furnace#,
were lately built <or the purpofc of calling Cannon
for this State.—There are abou* two thousand acres
of Land, one half of which isuudei wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the beH Hay and
Pallurc. The, Cannon lately manufactured thtre,
fully prove* i'ne excellency of the met«l, whicti i«
superior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for not one of fixty-nii.e guns
lately made, although some of the 84 were bored
into 31 pounders. have faiWd on proving. The fix
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
j marufafture, arid a place 6f at ms lying in the' (late
of Conne6licut, and only 30 miles from several land'
ing* on the Hudson's river, and having every advan
tage that cau relplt fr©m a plenty of water ifTuipg
from a large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
uleful purposes. The purchaser can be accommodat
ed with all the ftoek and utensils, and have poflefijoyi
on Qf. before the firfl of June next, and preparation
maybe made in the mean time for going into Blast ira
: mediately thereafter, for every pan will be delivered
| in good order, with some coal, Orfc, #c. &e. For
! terms, apply to Mr. ']o eph Anthony, in Philadel
phia ; David Brooka, Esq. one of the Reprefentativcs
in Cor.grefs for this State \ Mr, Djvid Watciman, on
thepremifest or to the proprietor in New-York.
WILLIAM N£ILSON T .
1 • Qfrwtf
Houie and Lots, injierdentown.
r ru BE SOLO, a handiome two Horf Houfi.
L with the Lot t>fl which it i» ere&ed, faulted
•about the middle of th/c besytiful and healthy
Vdlage of Bordentowp. The h«ufe is forty two
feet front, and in neat order. The lot contains
one sere; and is one hundred feet on t>e main
an '. extends with the fame J.rcadth tu-bask
f fict, Also, a large Lot, contjwQiUg Dearly four
acres, feparaud from the former by back iUeet.
One third only of the purckale money will be re»
quired upon executing a deed, and lor the re
minder, such credit will he given as the purchftfe
cr may chuff!. Thj« property wili be fold free •-
all incumbrances, and an indisputable title gWenf
For farther tnquire either of I>r.
William Btirnes, r t fidioff in Cordentown, near,
the prei»:fes, who will (hew <he fame, or of
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, 11®. 144, Market-flreet. (
December a. 3awtf
Llcal liftate for Sale,
\ PLANTATION, in a healthy and good si-
L_a tuation on Chester Creek, in' Middlctqn
TowrJjip, Delaware County, concaifiiog
acres, upwards of 50 acres of which are wood
land, well tiii)b,red ; the reoiainder plough land
and watered meadow— of the latter, many more
acres can be made at a small expence. There are
on foid premises, a good orchard of heft grafted
fruit,a ronfe, with a spring near the door, a frame
barn with (tabling under, and a log tenemart all
one part of fa\d place—Any prrfon inclining
to pucchafe, may view the premises by applying
to. Wm. Pennbll, on said farm, and know the
terms by applying to Jonathan Pennbll, in the
borough of Chester.
November *l. 3t ead
To be fold,
An ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain
ing 6 acres and 40 perches, a neat two
ftoryi>rick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, &c. situate on the Irifi tra<ft lane, in the
of Moyamenfing, .about one mile from
rhe eify of Philadelphia. Ftirthfcr particulars will
he made known upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon this place, for tafie and
clcgapcc, unrivalled.
Decfnibcr r. dtf
All L J erions who are indebted to
th<s estate of William He7?uam, fen. o* Phrla
dc'.phia, dfcceafed v are ro niaUc speedy
payiuent; and t,hi>fe v >vho have any demand* a.r
faid estate, will pleafc.- bo present thtln, pro
perly attcfleu, t© the fubferibers.
WiH 'iam Hey (ham,
Robert Heyjham. > Executors.
Francis ]3owes Sayre, J
n'owmhr 6. -2aw4w
LAW BOOKS,
Latell London and Dublin Ediuom.
H. iif P. RICE, Bookjlllers,
No. 16, South Second, and No. 50, Market (trees,
HAVE ju)l received by the lite arriva's irom
Lontloo and Dublin, their iprii.g inuiort.i
tion, cbr.flftißgc't a variety of ths lauftaS.il moit
approved l aw Bx>ok«, which,addedtothofe ilrea
dy on hatrd, forcijthe mollcxtenfive colltiftion ev
er offered for fa ein thi? country. They theiefore
be;; leave to notice, that t»om the nature of their
conncdfitrs'" DuWiii, tin y are enabled to felllrifh
• editions (as they have hitherto done) ht the very
fowett prices. The following ere among the latett
publications.
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, » Vila,
■ Peake's _Cafe< at Nisi Prius ; Ridge-ray's Htrpom
in the time of Lord H.:-dwicVe ; Eloyer's Procters
pradlice in the i cclefuftical Courts; IJirton'.
Trcatife or. a Suit in Tid4's Priiftice of
tl\e Court of Bench in Perl'ottal Aflions, %
parti complete ; Ward'* Law of J^atioOi; CruiA
on Ufcs ; modern Reports, it vols. London edi
tion.*
H. and P. Rict cxpetl t-3 receive by the firfi ar
rival from New-Yark the 6th vol. complete of
Durnford and East's Reports, the ad pact of Gil
bert's Law of L9ft, and a ntimber of
new publications.
June *6.