. /
#a?ette of m tEHtteU Jlt&t£o 9 & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
WEDNESDAT EVENING, FEBRUART 15, 1797. [VoluMM XI.
Number 138 5. J , ;
—■ 1 _ . „ «r.m A Pri nn'nil I I\A ft S. Cv R A T ~T A 11
For Freight or Charter,
qheis a good vefTel, fails fart, farrie* c i!
■» a bout 500 barrels, and will take in
Frtii'ht to proceed C.aftwife, or for the Weft Indies. dr
For terms apply to imanu'il Seaward, nwfter, on t0
board, at Arch-street wharf, or t.
ISAAC HARVET, Jun, a r
N«. i South Water-Greet.
February 14 lw
T®R SALE, ON BOA R • SAID VESSEL, \v
A few coils Cordage,
CANDLES, and j*
SHOES.
For Sligo and Kiliibegs, p
wftmjSLt The American Ship Nancy, a(
MSgS®! Cuthbert Riggs, matter. hi
Will fail with all convenient speed. For rt
freight or paffiigo apply to al
William Bell; tl
Who has for sale, r,
4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well aflbrted
3 Bales Irilh Flannels, and a boxes Lmen» e
as Pipes Brandy -«».'• ! ;
Madeira Wine ; Indigo. Russia Matts. h
Also, f<
A few barrels Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK, ii
OATMEAL, «cc.
November it, 17961 1 _
, ~~ CUSTOM-HOUSE, February 13. 1797-
Sales at
AT the Custom Hoofe, on Monday next, the 10th in- I
ftaHt, at t» o'clock, for payment of duties, having C
remained in the It ores beyoad the time limited by law, the 1
1 ijK *
tub »f Brass Kettles
TH 1 Stven boxes difFere»t specimens of Minerals f
S t One box Playing Cards
iv
p S One ditto Paper {
I & 1 Two boxes Pamphlets 1
A 2
W B Three caflcs Wine (
A box Mill Saws
1 M Six poekets Cetton
I C M One box Pamphlets a
I§T I a 3 Three boxes Book? t
t Xf M I & 1 Two boxes ditto I
T D 202 One bale Girth Wabb
0»e box Pamphlets |
TW One cafe Womtn's Silk Shoes
One clicit containing Cloth J
One bundle Bags
M §R No. 4 One trunk Worded Tassels
One bundle supplejack Canes c
One box Candles I
One ditto Sqap t
O Two small boxes Linens
The Goods may be viewed at any time in the morning
t of the day •£ sale. (Signed) SHARP DEL AN 2 ,
February 14 {W Collector.
The Elephant,
New exhibited, was bought for Ten Thoafand
Dollars. T" ;
He is 3 years old, 6 feet high, growing to 18 feet,
lie! eats 150 weight a-day, and drinks a barrel of
water ; he has drank some days forty bottles of porter,
drawing the corks with his trunk.
He is perfectly inoffenlive; travels loose, at the
rate of five miles an hour, and is the greatest curiosity
ever brought to this Continent.
He is to be seen 'till the 15th of January, in I
Market-street between Third and Fourth-streets, at
a quarter of a dollar, that every one may fee him—
after which time the former price of half a dollar will
be resumed.
He will leave Philadelphia as soon as the weather
Will permit.
December 31 d
... — —. 1 " , —r—T
Red Clover Seed.
Fresh red Clover Seed of the bell quality, in bags of
5 bifftiels cach
Madeira wine in pipes, fit for immediate use
Teneriffe wine in pipes, hogsheads and quarter calks c
Ditto do. of firit quality, fpr the ute of private J
families j
Coffee in hogsheads
Jamaica spirits
Conneflicut soap in small boxes
Window gtafe and
Two trunks of best patent, plain and ribbed silk and
cotton hosiery, for sale by
JOHN CRAIG,
February j. wff&mtf j
, FOR SALE, BT
Philip Nicklin & Co. <
IMPEXiAi and} TEAS
Hyion j
If Tubs Quickfilyer
4 Chests Bandanno Handkerchiefs
A few thefts Manchester Goods, well assorted ia Cor
duroyj, Thickets, Ginghams, Muflinets, Dimities, &c. ]
3 Trunks black Sewing Sjlk
180 Crates Queen's Waic, well assorted
IO Tohs Sheet Lead
Nails assorted flat and sharp point?
London Partialar") Madeira wine in pipes and hogs-
India Market j heads
40 Pipe* asd JO Hogsheads Tsneriffe
10 Hogffoads choice Port Wine
7 Tierces Snake-Root
»6 Casks yellow Paist
9 Boxes and it Bundles writing Slates
I Box Ink Stands and Note Presses
14 Bales Sail Canvass assorted, No. I to 8
February 11. raw&ftf
A convenient stable
Situ at f. pin Laurel Court— 3 Stalls therein to be rent
ed, with the privilege of using the Hay-Loft.
Eight years ef the time of service ef a NEGRO MAN
for sale. He is accustomed to house work, and capable of
taking care of H°tfes. Enquire of the Printer.
February II ftthtf
RICE.
ISo Tierces Rice for Sale by
Samuel Breck, Jun.
No. 89 South Third Street
LIKEWISE,
15 or 9.• Pockets COTTON, and
A Quamity I. H. SHERRY WINE,
50 Cdfes SWEET OIL, &c. &c.
Jcbinaiy (i t^ilh6t
Samuel Richardet .
Respectfully informs the Gentlemen i
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CI 1 Y
TAVERN andMEkCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in the
■ city of Philadelphia. n,v
---1 The Subfcriptioti Room will be furmfhed with all the
daily papers publilbed in Philadelphia, N=w-York 80l-
I ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com
mercial cities of Europe,—They will be regularly filed
and none permitted to be taken away on any account
Tea, Coffee,Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a vari«*y
of French Liquors; together with the usual refreihments,
will at all times be procured at the bar. . .
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated Wlt " '
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the moll
approvedMalt'Liquors from London aijd other breweries.
The Larder will be supplied with the prime and earliest
productions of the Season.
Large and small Parties, or ftngle Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with Breakfafts, dinners, or Suppers, at
hours most conv nient to themfelves —a cold Collation is
t regularly kept for conveniency, the Billof Fare to be had
at tha bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furmlhed, and
the utmost attention paid to cleanliness, and every other
requisite. '
Samuel Richardet will behappyto receive, ana
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfelf that nothing on his part shall be wanting to pre
fcrvethat patronage with which he has been so diftinguifh
ingly honored.
Philadelphia, April 19 mwf
CAMILLA,
Or APifture of Youth.
By the authored of Evelina and Cecilia, to be com
, prised in five volumesj at half a dollar each, payable
on delWery—Printed ,at New-York, by Mr. John
le Bull.
CONDITIONS.
I. Handsome, neat type, perfcdll> new»J_i* em
ployed . . .
11. A volume, Hitched in blue paper, is intended
to be published every 2 weeks, till the five are com
pleted; the"firft and second are come to hand, and the
third is hourly expelled. Subscriptions are received,
and Books may be had of J. OKMROD, Iso. 41,
Chefnut-ftreet-
Mrs. D'Arblay (late Miss Btirney) the celebrated
authoress of this inimitable work, needs eulogy
to add to the laurels she has already acquires in the
literary world. The ltrength of imagination and ele
gance of style, displayed in Evelina and CeciLi, will
fufficiently recommend to every reader of taste and
judgment, the peiufal of Camilla.
It may not be improper to add, that the Queen of
England, after having perused this interfiling publi
cation, presented Mrs. D'Arblay v-ith a thouLnd
pounds flerling, as a teflimqny ot her approbation oi
the work.
January 25 mw f
,g For Sale,
— By the Siibfcribers —In PENN-STREF.T,
65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
id . Imported by the Eagle.
YViLLUNGS & FRANCIS.
Nov. 30
as " For Sale,
f ' At the Office of the Editor of the Gazette of the
le United States,
A FEW COPIF.S or •
" An accoiant of the Receipts and
in Expenditures of the United States, for the year 179
— ivir. Pickering's Letter.
II This Day Published,
sr AND FOR S/ILE Br THE EDITOR,
Pricc three eights of a Dollar.
THE Letter of the Secretary of State, to Mr. Pinck
_ ney, Minister Plenipotentiary of" the United States, to
the French Republic. February 9. 6t
of ALL PERSONS
INDEBTED to the Estate of the late DaVid Ken neb r
Lfquire, cither by note, bill, bond, book account, or
s otherwise, are requeued to make immediate payment to
te the fubferibers, without deliy, and all pcrfons having any
just demands agairift said Estate, are delirtd so exhibit the
fame for ( ad])»llment.
ANN KENNEDY 7 Adm'x.
FRANCIS JOHNSTON j Adm'r.
Philadelphia, February w ßw
id Wants a Place,
AS WAITER in a gentleman's Houle, a young man
who has lived for a confi lerable time ia some mi the
_ tirft lioufcs in tke city, and whose character is sure ; or
would engage with a tingle gentleman t» attend on him.
Directions left at the New York and Baltimore ftage
office, No. is, f»uth4th, near Market fUeet, for R. H.
will be attended to. Fekruary ij *8 jt
Notice
To the American Sailors returned from Algiers.
YOU are requested to call at my house, on Thursday,
the 16th instant, at ten o'clock, to receive the mo.
ney 1 collefled f»r you. ST. MARY,
331 Market-ftrect.
February 14 tt
f Peter Borger,
j s No. 12 9 Mulberry Street,
HAS imported by the brig Tryal, captain Robert Knox,
and the Good Friends, captain Smith, from Hamburg,
7000 Empty French bottles,
20® do. demijohns,
24.6 do. filled with beans and lentils,
100 Hand Engines,
100 Ps. Platillas,
2op While Rolls'—»•
ALIO—
~ Several boxes with decanters and mmblers, half pint, pint
and quarts —o*e invoice of Nuremberg toys —containing
it _ fnuffrboxes, looking-glasses, &c.
100,000 Quilb of different qualities,
, r 150 Boxes Window Glass,
ON HAND
°- 10 Q r » Gaflcs Sherry Wine,
a do. Brandy,
200 Cases belt Holland Gin,
— 200 Boxes Red Wine, eontaining ia bottles each,
One bale of' Flannels assorted, and
30 Ps. Cloth, ,
Freth Prunes in and barrels.
February 7. tu & fr
A Wet i^urfe.
WANTS A PLACE,
A YOUNG Woman, with a good bread of milk. She
i~T- can be well recommended Enquire at Mr. Mor
row's, Gun-Smith, opposite the State-House, C'iiefnut
t f;««. February 13.
A Principal Book-Keeper
IS wanted in one of the Public Offices. Enquiraof the
Printer. February to §6t
50 Dollars Reward,
LOST, last evening, between eight and nine o'clock,
as the fubferiber was going to his houfc at th« Falls of
Schuylkill, from tho of his father-in-law, Mr.
iFiancis Stewart, in Sugar-alley, between Sixth and Se
venth-ftrects, aiove Market-street,
A black POCKET-BOOK,
. Containing 1190 .Dollars, 'in Bank-Notes
From c to 100 Dollars each,
One of which was of the Branch-Bunk of New-York,
* and it-ver.il papers, such as receipts and orders.— l"he
road the fubferiber fook, was the Falls road, crofling at
s the Upper Ferry.
c Whoever finds the above Pocket-Book, and returns it
s to the fubferiber at the Kails, or to his fatker-in-law,
I mr Stewart, living in Sugar Alley, shall be entitled to
the above reward, paid by
a JAMES HAFFY
r Feb. 3. §•
t A Quantity of Brandy,
« FIRST & 2d proof,
Gin, of 4th proof, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds
Old Hock* in cases of 40 dozen each
Glass Tumblers, in pints and half-pint*
Window Glass, in boxes, of different lues
Hazlenuts, in faeks
Whiting
Copperas ( ■, ~
e White Leid f 111 llM '
" & Spanish Brawn j
For Sale by PETER BLIGHT.
January 4 $
Clocks and WatcHes7
J LESLIE and PRICE,
e No. 79, Market-street, Philadelphia,
, HAVE IMPORTER by the late arrivals from
London, 4 Urge aflortment ff WARRANTED
' WATCHES, confiding of horizontal, capp'd and
jewel'd Gold Watches, with leeotds, of i'upcrior
j workmanship and elegance ; also capp'd and jewel'd
and plain Gold Watches ; capp'd & jcwell'd, capp'd,
seconds, day of the month, and plain Silver Watches ;
eight day chamber Clocks; elegjnt French Clocks
II vyith marble frames ; pight day and thirty hour, brats
j works, &c.
December ai, 1706. d?m
f_ 1' ive Dollars Reward.
j T OST, afiout ten days since, a small SPANISH DOG,
i; ' 1 j white, dappled with yellow—(harp ears, small head,
long hair, inclining to curl j occasionally limps on one
hind lpg ; aafwers to *he name' of Damon. Whoever
will bring him to No 104, corner of Spruce and 3d
streets, shall receive the above reward,
February 9 tf&t3t
JUST ARRIVED,
By the Danish fcip Friendship, captain Matzen, from
Oporto,
Red Port Wine,
hi Pipes, Hogflieads an * Quarter-Calks,
c 150 Boxes of Lemons,
For Sale by
3 Philips, Cramond & Co.
~ February 9 §
Frejb Garden, Grass and Flower-Seeds,
Roots, &c. &c.
This day landing from the ship Eagle, captain Fofdick,
from Londc&,
And FOR SALE by
* GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE,
Corner of Walnut and Stcond-flreets,
A mnji capital and spten/ive AJjortment of
GARDEN, GRASS and FI.OWER-SEEDS
* ROOTS, &c. See.
7 Among which are,
, . Five kind# .Asparagus Threz kinds Creffo
Four Berecole Twelve , Onioi
Twenty-five Beans Radift
Six _ Beets! Fift#eir" Turnip
Kleven Brocoli Pea:
Twenty-fix S'ul Savo]
Six Carrst Four Parfnii
Three Cauliflower. Twenty-three Meloi
Five Celery! Twenty-one Lcttuc<
in Ten Cucumber
Common and lemon Thyme
or Curled Ic-af apd sprigged Parflejf,
Pot Marygold Pot Marjorum
e- Balm Thyme Mangel Wurtzel
Leek Kail Shallots
Rape Seed Rye Grass Saint Foin Luccrtie
Red and white Clover Timothy, &c. &c.
With a curious collection of the rnoft esteemed
FLOWER-SEEDS and ROOTS,
Y» Being the moll extensive ever imported into this city,
°* The above are from a capital Seedsman in London, an
are warranted frefti and good.
Printed catalogues may be had by applying as above.
i 1 Dec. 17 §
A PARCEL 'OF VERY FINK
IX> St. Croix Sugars and Rum,
•g', JAMAICA SPIRITS, and
LAGUI£A HIDES,
For Sale by
Feb. j.—fiw JAMES YARD.
Twenty Guineas Reward.
RANAWAY from/the fubferiber on the 13d Oftoba
int a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSES ; n yeai
ng old ; about 5 feet 8 inches hifch ; had on a mked gree
coat, with a green velvet cape and oval yellow buttons
a striped vest.; a pair of dark spotted. pantaloons, an
whole boots mHch worn. It is probable he may chang
his name and dress.' He has been accustomed te drivin
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will I
paid for securing him so that the fubferiber may get lln
again, and if brought home all reasonable charges paid t
Robins Chamberlaine.
Eafton, Maryland, Nov. 10. 14 §imaawtf
< — _l
NOTICE.
THE Sales of LANDS of the United States, in tl
North-Wtftern Territory, heretofore advertift
in the several public papers, will commence this eve
ihe ing, at the City Tavern to be continued from d;
ar- to day, 'till the tenth of MARCH next, if not fooii
ut- fold.
3' January 4 §
:l'
Mss. G RAT TA N
Refpeflfully informs her friends, and the public in
general, that on Toefday the tc.fhday of January,
she proposes opening, at No. 39, North Sixths
street,
A Linen and Muslin Warehouse.
Muslins, frona 673 to 12/il per yard v
Jaconet dittff, from 8/8 per yard
Striped ditto, from y/10 to 10/10 yard
Fine CofTaes
Tambour'd Bo6k Muslins, from 13/9 to 21/ per yird
India Muslin, from IJ/3 to 15/ per yard
Sheeting Muslin i
Jaconet muslin Handkerchiefs, from 4/3 td 6/ per hdkf.
Book muslin Handkerchiefs from 5/3 to iq/"6 per hdkf.
Muslin color'd ;ind border'd Handkerchjefg
Dacca Handkerchiefs
Tambour'd Cravats from lc/"8 to lift I
Pocket Handkerchiefs
Cambric, from 11/3 to i()fs per yard
» Table Cloths r
1 Huckabuck Towelling
Women's from to 13/ per pair
Diraity from 5/ro to 6/11
Men*s Silk Hose
Tambour'd muslin Handkerchiefs from iifn to 1
frilh linens for Gentlen-en's Shirts, from to
And a variety of other articles.
N. B. Orders received for all kinds of ready made
Linen, Gentlemen's Shirts, ruffled or plain, Cravats,
Pocket Handkerchiefs, See. See.
Houlhold Linen, See Bcc.
A plain shirt, made iytyJ mark'd, 3 1-2 dollars.
A full ruffled ditto, 4 doHars.
A plain shirt, made ard mark'd, 5 dollars.
A full ruffled itto 6 dollafs
A plain shirt, made and marked, 5 1-2 dollar!.
A full ruffled ditto 7 dollars.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 6 dollars.
A full ruflU-d ditto 712.
A plain flairt, made and mark'd, 6 1-2 dollars.
A very fine ruffled ditto 8, dollars.
Linen included.
January 13. £
Pennsylvania Population Company.
1 "VTOTICE is hereby given, to filch Share-holders a 8
X\ a*s hava not paid their assessments on theirfhares—to
i pay the fame immediately to the Secretary of the Compa.
r ny, at the Office, No. 53 north Kourth-ftreet,
1 Philadelphia, l'hey are further informed, that in default
~ .of paying the fame within thirty days from the 4th of le
; bruary, inllant, the several forfeitures will be flridly cx>
i ailed, m conformity to the 2ifl article of association.
" 6 By order of the Board,
SOL. MARACHE, Secretary
Feb 4— 533
Mahogany and Logwood.
' 1 A Cargo for Sale on board of the ship Sally, captain
I>. Gelfton, just arrived from Honduras.
e Apply to
r PHILIPS, CRAMOND & Co.
d February 9 §
Bank of Pennsylvania,
January 4, 1797.
n At a meeting of the Dire&ors th's a dividend of
nxteen dollars on each lh"»re was declarer! for tht last
6 months, which will tee paid to the Stockholders at*
er the 14th inft.
JONATHAN SMITH, Cashier.
Jan, 3. dtf.
DANCING
TAUGHT BV
MRS. B r R N,
Of the New Theatre, To Ladies only.
THINKING it a great adyantage for them to have a
Female Tutor in that art, pledges herfelf to their pai>,-
' ents and friends to take all pofllblc care in'their
In addition to the Dances taught iu PfcfJadelpiKa, mean 3
to teach the Min\iet, Minuet de la Cour, .Mlemand, Ga*
vot, Quadrilles, Strathspeys, and all Scotch Dances ; and
above all to pay particnlar that very neceflary
part Polite Address. For parti«^r' s enquire of Mrs Bvrn,
No* 70 north Februry (f nnvftf
-
PURSUA^I^to a Resolve of the Board of Trustees of
Academy, in Somerset County, and
e« State of Maryland,
ui NO riC£ IS HEREBY GIVEN,
fh That the office of Principal Teacher in the said school fit
ip vacant.
as A OENTLEMAN qualified to teach the higher Greek and
3 y £\. Latin Claflics, Ceogtaphy, and the Mathematics, witfr
ip such. other branches o£ literature as are in such
schools, would meet with liberal eneouragement, and, it is
ce believed, would obtain a very eligible settlement. For th®
present, the Trustees would be willing to contract with a per»
son capable of taking change of a Grammar S hool.
As this Iriftitution is provided with buildings fufficient to
accommodate the principal and his family, and from seventy
to eighty boys[; a library, an excellent philpfophical and ma
thematical apparatus, globes, maps, &c; has refpe£lable
funds, and islituated in a plentiful and agreeable part of the
country ; nothing seems wanting to make it rank among the
mod ufeful seminaries in this part of the Union, but a suitable
character to preside in it.
Proposals may be addrefTed to the fubferiber, in Princefft-
Anne, in the neighborhood of the Academy, or to Do£U>r
n( j Martin L Haynie, No. 83, north Thitd-ftrcet, Phila
delphia, or to the Printer hereof.
EZEKIEL HAYNIE.
January 20. Feb 7 tu&fßw
— ~ This Day is Published,
BY Dobfor., Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the other
Booksellers. price One Dollar and twentyjfive cents, cleganU
• ly printed on wove paper, and hot-prdfed, by John Thouvp
fon,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The CONSTITUTIONS of the several States,
With eaeh other, and with that of the United States;
exhibiting in Tables, the prominent features of eaehCon
ftitution, and classing together their most impertant pro
er vilions, under the several heads of administration ; with
lr3 ' Notes and Observations. By William Smjth, of South
,en Carolina, LL. I) and member of the Congrcfs of the
13 . United States. Dedicated to tho People of the United
nd States>
N. B. A few Copies printed on an inferior paper, at
Pg 3-4ths of a dollar. February 6 mwf
be For Sale,
by By George Defchamps, No. 91, ,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
r Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels
— and half barrels
Ditto Herring and Mackarel.
the Smoaked Hsrring in barrels and kegs
fed Ditto Salmon, by the dozen or Angle one
en- Dry Cedfifh, from one to fifty kentals
3ay Fine and cearfe Salt
uer Nova-Scotia and French Plaiter of Paris, in theftone
and ground, for maaure and flueco-work
December j «hß»f>W|| . ~/ • __y'
New Theatre.
On fTEDAFSDJr EVENING, Felrvsrv tj,
Will be prcfenied (for the sixth time) an Hiftorical'Play,call
ed
Columbus ;
Or, A World Discovered.
To which will be added, a Farce, called
The Ghost.
'Sir Jeffery Content, Mr. Warren'
Captain ConfUnt, Mr. "Darley, j«n.
C! iichj Mr. Morris
'irully, Mr. Francis
Roger, Mr. Bares
Belinda, Mra. Harvey k v
Dorothy, Mrs. Francis
Box, One Dollar twen«p-five cents. Pit Seven Eighths
of a Dollar, end Gallery, half a dollar.
0" Tickets to be had at H. & P. Rice's Sook-flore
No. 50 Higk-ftreet, and at the Office adjoining the
Theatre.
Ladies and Gentlemen are requ-efted to fend their
fcrsrants to keep places a quarter before $ o'clock, and
to order them, as soon as. the company are feaffcd, to
-withdraw, as they gaunot on any accpunt be permit
ted to remain.
The Doors of the Theatre will open at 5, and the
Eurrain rife precisely at 6 o'clock.
Places for the Boxes to Be taken at the Office in the
frdnt of the theatre, from 10 till o'clock, and from
10 till 4 on the days of performance.
riFJT RESPUBLICA r
College-Hall.
Readings and Recitations,
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining.
On THURSDAY E VENING,
February 16th, at 7 o'clock,
Will be recited
FIRST PART.
AnthcJny's Funeral Oratioa, Shakespeare.
Cato'i Soliloquy on the Immortality of the Soul, Addifon.
Ode on St. Ccecilia's Dav, Pope.
second part.
The Story of Lavinia, Thomson.
Edwin and Emma, Mallet.
Maria, firft and second part, Sterne.
Ode to Madness, Penrofe.
' THIRD PART.'
Ode on the Paflions, ColIin».
Alexander's Feast, Dryden.
OnSATURD \Y, February 18,
Will continued,
Sele&ions from the tragedy of
hamlet*
'With a Critical Invcftigation of the Chara&br of Hattilet,
and Qbfervations on Shakespeare.
Tickets to be had of Mr. Poulfon, ju*. at the Library ;
atmr. M'Elwee's looking-glass-store, No. 70, S. Fourth
ftreet; and at Mr. Carey's, Bookseller, Market-street—
Half a dollar each.
Will be fold,
/ '
On Wednesday, the 22d day of February y inflant,
At the Merchants' Coffee-Houfe,
At 12 o'clock, nbon,
A Lot, or Piece of Ground,
Containing 11 acres and 100 perches, situate near the
Blue Ball Tavern, on the Paffyunk road, four miles
from the city of Philadelphia. This . Lot commands a
of die rivers Delaware and Schuylkill, is nearly inclof*
ed with a good cedar poll and rail fence, and has a never
failing spring of frelh water rising in it—One acre of '
which is good bottom meadow—adjoining lands of Willi
am Bingham, ilfq v Jacob Sink, and others. The terms L
of fait, one fifth part in ten days after the day of sale,
when immediate possession will be g;ven, the residue in
payments agreeable to the purchaser, on paying legal in
terest therefor, and giving security for the fame, if re
quired. An iudifputable title will be given, upon mak
ing the firft paymtnt as aforefaid. »
A Draft of said Lot may be seen at the Merchants'
Coffee-Houfe, and at the officc of Alexander Power, No.
145 Ohefnut-ftreet, where further information may be
"d. Philadelphia, February 14 §tlj
- JVill be Sold, by Public Vendue,
P n the gt/j ef March next,
IX, £■„* NTAT IO N,
N Ridley townftiip, Delaware county, state of Penn
fylvanii, eleven mtlyfrom Philadelphia, and one from
the great road leading thencf «a Cheftcr ; tontai ning one
hundred and twenty-three acres, tfc e «ty-three of whick
are woodland, and eighteen meadow. On the premises
there are, a dwelling-house, barn, and ether o*t-houfes,
repair ; a gpad spring of water close to
and a fine stream of water runs through the premises; by
which pait of the meadow Is watered, &c.
also, • v ,
On the fame day, the (lock on tkc said farm ; confin
ing of horses, cows, Iheep, hogs, &c. A cart, plough,
harrow, and other farming utensils; also a large copper
fti 1, with the household and kitchen furniture, amon«-
rrhich are beds and bedding, an eight day clock, and mat
tiy other articles too tediouslto mention.
The sale tob«gin at ten o'clock in the forenoon, where
the conditions will be made known, and attendance given
on the premises, by CURTIS LEWIS.
Ridley, February 13 i 4 -ttlift« 9 -
FOR SALE,
At Whitefides' Tea Ware-House,
No. 99, North Second Street. '
!fP er,al } C Hyson' Skin.
Hyson, C Frefll Tcas . ) sbuchon
Young Hyson, } (.Bohea
Pec - 9- 3taw 3 m.
Washington Lottery. j
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be purchased or 1
exchanged for prizes, at the Office, No. ,47, Chefaut-
I.rect, where a corre& Numerical Book is kept for public <
infp-Jicii. Also Canal Lottery Tickets for sale or ex- ]
changed for prizes diawa in the Washington Lottery, of ,
1 a days returns arc revived.
The Bufincfs of a Broker carried on as usual.
. 3 a, \* ar >' l ±_ ttstf
To the Benevolent.
T HE Subscriber having rented that well known tav (
J. trnhoufe on Silver Springs, Cumberland county, t
on the great road leading from Philadelphia to Fort Pitt. 1
which he had completely furniflied for the accommodation a
of travellers, but which unfortunately, by accident c*u E ht
fire about Il o clock in the morning, the 3d of Novem- c
ber last, and m the space ef one hour was totally confum- j
ed with €U the furniture, wearing apparel, (lores of li
quoi, Jce. to a very large amount, atten.'.ed with the me- 1
lanchnly loss of a daughter about twelve years of aee '
who on y fumved a few houii after the fire ; hi, wife If! £
so disabled; and others of his family much hurt • he is *
" 0W " d "«d to an unhappy and de.Htutc fitua ion—he L
therefore beg, leavt to fohcit some reliePfrom a gen.rous c
pubhe. The following gentlemen are pleased to undertake a
the trouble to receive fubfeription, for hi. benefit: viz.
Samuel Richardet Merchants- Coffee-Houfe ; James e
Thompson, Indian Queen ; George Irwin, Croft Keys, in
Fourth-street, and John Dunwoody, Spread Earlc, Hicrh- b
iV.'. , David* briggsT a
I-h.ladelph.a, February 14 ttli&ft.vi 3 a
Tiic oUicr Printer* are reqwfUd to public the above, v
(sasette-/»-Slnite'oS>tatcs,
AND.
' Philadelphia Daily Advertijer.
PHILADELPHIA, Fsbruary IJ.
COMMUNIbjiTIONS.
Some convulsive dying Ornggles were to be ex
pefted fromthe jacobins ageinft the " last not lead"
measure of' Waihington. The correS apd able vin-
the government, agaiult French claims
and charges, has produced a neccffity of fubtaifuge
amongthofe who hate plain fads. Now it is affer
, ted that the old court were Bot fincrre in their offi
cial publications—and that though we
ledge their dijtrterejledneft, we oujjht and rauft firlf
; adtait that they were not to be truficd —the citizen
can perhaps tell us -when they arefmcere ? Are they
[ fmcere when t-Jiey talk of fraternity—or does
, matrimonial language of " drawing the bonds of
. the two republics closer" mean a diplomatic jtietti
nefs of fxpreflion ? Is a minister sincere wh«n, as
Genet did, he tells us that France does not wish us
to go to war—that (he loves us too well to wish any ,
thing more than our peace and prosperity—or does
he mean the reverse ? Was the ci-devant
cere cither in his threats, too certainly have 1
been amply realized upon oar defenfelefs trade in '
that very scene to which they invited it—or in his !
carejfes of the people—or in his marvellously modest ,
demand of gratitude, the difinterelted boast of hi
ving given to us our in his manly
discontent at the A.lmanac precedence ? Some years
hence, a future citizen may aflert that this lan
guage was, at the time it was nfed, intended not to
rouse the people into civil, war, nor to lead us into '
a war with England, but that it wa» intended to im
pose upon the whole world.
Mr. Secretary Pickering is accused by the jaco- '
bin Writers wttfi having taken two months, to com- '
plete a production, which was destined to widen thc 1
basis of American Independence. The French par- '
ty will excuse ub in this country, if the natural 1
phlegm of an American mind retard the progress
of decision—when documents of higl rreaning and 1
authority ate to be resorted to and compared ,5 where t
faSs, those provoking ftambiing blocks to the vifi- '
onary, are to be difplay'd, and indudlions to be 1
drawn from th«m, these intuitive gentlemen will |
forgive a minilter of our republic if he use dili- 1
gence in research, and slowness of judgment, upon v
points, which when once fixed, are twt to be reeed- ,
ed from—we are neither Pope-raakers, nor French- '
m <n—we deny both infallibity and iafpiration,and
never do a great a£t by acclamation. Had the fe- 1
cretary fcllowed M. Adet's method, materials and F
Jiile, it is to be presumed the piece would have been I
never written, but printed ojf, as fact as invention '
furnifhed the paflages ; and with as much prompt
ness as a certain novel writer is said to have exerted. 1
This notable author was alfa a Printer, and it is c
said, by Gibbon, used to print as fact as he compo- 1
Jedj without hafing any copy before him ; rapid all
from his own head — this might do for a work of *
jillion—On the whole, truth is so valuable, that it '
will be found more'lafting, thoughJlowly developed
and acknowledged, than those falfefhoods which v
haste engenders, and lefle&ion destroys. 1
COMMUNICATION. ]
In arbitrary governments, where the gift of almost i
every office, whether considerable or unimportant, is v
in the erown, disappointments, which rpuft necelTarily •
be frequent, die away in whispers or expire in, silence. '
Fear is the principle that produces order and lubmrf- V
fion. Were permission given by such governments to c
«vtry man inclined to appeal to the public, and dif- »
posed to emit hit spleen, there would soon be a com
plete revolution. A despotic government must necef
tarilv engender abuses more enormous ani numerous
than one where the conduct of public officers may be
fcrutiniaed freely. Hence their policy of reftrainine
the liberty of the press. This valuable centinel of
freedom is doubtless one of the firmed barriers against
tyranny; and if permitted for a ffiort time in countries
\yherr prevails, would speedily operate a .
changefavorabU to the general mtertfls ; bnt like moll
■privileges it lsfubjefl r-» abiife. a
In a limited monarchy, iUse England, the rage .of
a disappointed candidate, or an' ambitious or needy so- I
licitor for office is vented through T!,,- Dar t
ty gazettes! and often becomes l'» ,rkfome to the mi- ,
n y, that something tangible is held out, and the
patriot bccomes filcnt. c
In the United States this is not the cafe. A Prefi- 0
dent, though participating with the Senate in the a
power of appointing to offices, cSnnot gratify everv 3
claimant who thinks himftlf entitled to notice Dif si
appointment impel, him to the fide of opp'ofijion. p
There, without enquiring into the motives of prefer- I
ence, he abuses and misrepresents without jullice 8 r ,1
mC f rCy '.i, T "/ the con sequences influence him n
-for the press is free, as ,t ftiould be in every free "
country. No pecuniary donations can be offered- P
No offices are vacant: he therefore goes on «.«»■
and declaiming till the exceli of his rage exhausts his c
tfgued f ' tß d ° Wn ' not fatisfied ' but f- <'
A President of the United States must expert to en- r
counter all this. It is a concomitant lrfe-wb'e fmm
htspoft. The molt i mmicu!ate and
rafler in the Umon has experienced it, and his f uc
celTors cannot hope to escape. fTV. Y. Daily Gaz.'j
NORWICH, (Connefiicut) February n. 't
WE believe that no douffma'ins with th (l
,HC ba ™ burnt " n Saturday evei'n? "
the aßth ult. (mentioned in our hft pap Cr ) wls bv £' I
sign set on fire, by fame d,visg villain or vi"a : n< 1, f
<1
clock, another attempt was In 6 "
house adjoining the back P art cf "weffis ll P
Huntingdon's Itore, in thi. city : a number o fi V a " d P
were immediately alarmed, and the fire Zt *
got to a great height, was soon e.vinguiC F V '" g «c
person is confident that this lire was hut Jf a ,
before kindled bv some hnM ."n a w m,lllJ tes 81
coai of'fire
a carnage where the fire was kindled ! Y ° f
lietween the hours of 2 anH n'/j i
evening last, the inhabuams of thisluv -^' 7 ,c
larired. by the cry of Fir» wete again a- .
belonging to Samuel Tracy, h° in
SS
»u. ik,... t „„ w „;
"» horse and federal tons of hay. It is very evident that
this bu.lding also was let on fire by ilefign.
«' On Monday morning last, about 7 o clock, a Irnokc
wk per eived to iflue from the barn a few rods welt of
the meeting-houfc in this city, belonging to Mr. Aza
riah Lafhrop. Search was immediately made, and it j
was found to originate from some fire upon the top of
a hay mow, which, if it had not been immediately ex
tinomlhed, would in a few minutes more, have been
beyond the power of all those prffent to save it. Two
chips were found on or near the hay, which convinced
the aftonilhed citizens, that a coal of fire was brought
, in them with ail intention to destroy that as well as oth
er buildings.
It appears almost an impossibility that four luch dar
s ing attempts, within so short a space of time, fliould
t be made to fire this city, three of which were made
early in the evening, and one after the rising of the
fun in the morning, and yet the perpetrators (hould «f
---cape undiscovered, and not even any person (hould be
fufpefled, with a degree of certainty, so as to have
thein arretted ; all appear* to be a mystery ; no person
' can conjecture what their design is, but nnmbrrs of ob
' jecftions will immediately rife to oppose it. Alarm and
1 fear occupy the attention of all clafTcs of the inhabit
: ants, expelling every moment to fee the city enwrap
ped in flames We are happy in mentioning that up
wards of twenty of our citizens voluntarily tarn out
and patrol the city every nrght. We hope soon to be
able to inform, that the hardened wretch.who has dar
ed to commit so great a crime, is fafely lodged in tke
hand's of justice.
Another alarm. —Wednesday, February 3th, 3 o'
clock, P. M. The cry of Fire has at this mon.ent a
larrried the inhabitants of this city. Our paper is
printing, and we can only mention that a barn belong
ing to Mr. Lynde Latlirop, is entirely confumcd ; the
fire it is said was kindled by some daring villain.
From late Englijh Papers.
November 23.
Mifj Harrifon, filter to ths late Commodore, and {
sister-in-law to Admiral Macbride, lately eloped j
with a recruiting officer of a French emigrant corps,' •
to whome (he gives 2,500!. per ann. She saw j
her gallant with other soldiers at the isle of Wight,
and liking his person, sent her servant to him re
queuing an interview, in which fuccceded
in strengthening the fit ft imprelfion, that (he return- |
ed to town, and on Sunday last with due form,
gave him her hand
The great importance of thediftilleries in the ar- (
tide of fatted hogs may be judged of in some dc- j
gree by the number turned out of the distilleries in j
Surry only, which arc estimated at 11,79© a y eir » j
value at 46,2 151. besides the great number fed in
the starch yards. It is said that all the distilleries
in the kingdom, when in full work, lend to market j
weekly 30,000 hogs ; during the last year they
were at a total Hand, and the price of bacon has
been enotmous.
From a correfl calculation it appears, that when
the new military levies are raised agreeably to the
plan now before Parliament, the officers alone of our
present forces will exceed in number the whole ftan
din;? army during the reign of Charles 11 1 j
Two vefiels are preparing in the river to convoy f
to Botany Bay the felons in the different goals, un
der sentence of tranfportation—ln the next cargo e
their go no fewer than five Attornies ! 1
Ihe following remarkable inferiptian is copied
from a tombftoue in the £rro«»d over pgaiivft
Spring Path, in the Island of Jamaica. e
" Here lieth tne body of Lewis Galdy, Esq. a
who,died the 22dofSept. >739, aged 80 years
He was born at Montpelliec, in France, which, f
place he left for his religion, and fettled in this
Island; whete in the great earthquake in the year r
1692, he was fwa'ilowed up, and by the great pro
yidence of God, by a second Ihock was thrown out
into the sea, where he continued swimming till he j,
vras taken up by a boat, end miraculously preferv- c
ed He afterwards lived in great reputation, and r
was universally lamented."
CONTINUATION OF ~ o
Latest Foreign Intelligence.
By an Arrival at New-York. 1
STOCKHOLM, November ro. c
bmce our young king has taken into his hands a
the reins of government, the politics of our court ®
appear to have nndergone a total change. o
H(T C marr ' '£f. 'be ''ing with a princess of n
Russia, we are assured ~ completely broken off, and a
that, liftemng only ,o his incKriatien, he is ,bo« to I b
espouse the princess of Meclenhurg Strelit*. The 1»
empress o£ Russia has left nothing untried to break
offth.s match. A penficm to the German princ.fr
as queen dowager of Sweden- 5 00,0c0 roubles ai f<
a parlion to the Ruffian princrft, a«d an annual fob- '1
My of los.ooo roubles, were i. have been Z b
En of h' gUa ; dmn :: P 01 ,he kin S> and the sub- «
** C 'n Um l anCe s have followed by a'<
republic 0 h j"o C ° Urt and tbe French "
epublu. The baron de Stael and his lady, it e
Paris "* ' mmed,atcl y 18 ta ke their departure for P
a
It a B o R r USS f LS ' Nov . I
eve ot beino- 3 gX /" d °P era,ion '• now on the »
eve of beng executed. The diviliou of general
the pilofth nn R V° ,8,0 °? mcn ' has
to Andernach, to rein force* V
In th#» rv» • centre ©f ilie army.
Rhine at 'he '' '° pass thc if
the north whi I ? Ne«wied, and the arsny of P
as W„ y of hay ratlons . bread, and u
«° be sent to Mulheim '^ prc P a " n g at Cologne,
arrived by poll at Col ogn J Bournonv.lle has S
TO,. PARIS, November 34.. u,
'<> to 'he Tile'de'Fran^' rC^ are determined S
b«n, the famecomi J " the t,
iuftruftions to P ° fltivC
tl.eabolit.on of fIX eXfCUU ° n of law of W.
n., . November 26.
. fhc 1... ma . j«™«, ,]
it revoking all nfl.er decrees, by whieh so np B(rg l
been pei mined to refidc in Pa.is. Those who *2
« • to obtain leave for continuing their residence ar
I deliver in petitions, setting forth the place of th '°
t ; birth, their condition and profeffion, the place d
,f their last domicile abroad, the different houses '
- 1 which they have liv a d at Paris, and their mjtiv l!
n ; for having obtained 'heir last leave of residence
J I Yesterday a worn n hawking about a tra« e J
J ! "titled, the treatment of Louis XVI. was t J'
- ' '"to in the Jardin Egalitc, the ci-dev a „t
ralais Royal.
■ eft " da y mining the ci-devant marquis d.
1 Cufy, formerly French ambassador in Eavaria, wa ,
■ guillotined, as was the marquis de Meynard
Vendean officer of rank, accused befidesof cmiVrs
tion. * •
November 28.
The grand jury of the department of IH e and
Vilame, on the 27 Brumaire, placed in a ftati of
acculation Jean"Moreau, who fired a pistol- at Ee
neral Hoche ; Charles Teysflere, who abetted that
crime ; Adelaide Marie Lecointre de Grave, an d
the widow Porin, who concealed the arms of Terf
flere. ' '
A. traveller of fidelity, and on whose patriotism
we can rely, hasjuft returned from a journey int.
the country between the Meuse and the Rhine, the
eleaorate ot Treves and the Palatiuate. He fp'eaks
highly of the date of the public mind in these
countries. He assures us that the retreat of
• army is there regarded as a misfortune, but not a, »„
alarming .anger for these frontiers; that the pec
pie look anxiously forward to peace, and expcS
that an armftice will fpcedly take place. He adds
that it is the general Wish of the army, Ihould the
war continue, to have Pichegru at their head:
that the fold.ers have the greatest confidence in I
his talents, and arc perfaaded that were he to re- .
join them, discipline and victory would retarn with
him.
November 29.
The executive iffueu ■ decree on the
23d of November, the objetfs of which is to en- -
force the existing orders for preventing any kind
of communication between England and Franee.
All that the Spmilh fleet has yet done, istoraife
the bloekade at foulon. A letter from that port
states, that orders are come for the equipment of*
squadron as five fall of the line and two frigates,
supposed for Conftantinopkr
The Spanish fleet, in the harbor as Toulon,
consists of twenty-two ships of the line and ten
frigates. »
General Hoche still prosecutes with the fame ar
dour, the equipment which it is believed is destined
to operate a descent upon England.
COUNCIL of FIVE HUNDRED.
November 24.
Rouyer, in the nams of the committee, made a
report concerning the paflage of recruits raised in
Italy for the Spanish service fever the French ter
ritory.
It was decreed that a toll should be paid by all '
carriages palling along the highway.
PARIS, November 29.
The meflenger sent to London by Lord Mafm
e(bury U returnedpaWlßenegociations are refam
ed. 1 bey have at last made a step forward j for
after childishly refufing to explain himfelf on the
principle of compensation, set forth by Lord Malm
efbuiy, oar learned Minister afiumes in the molt
positive mannei, enlightened, no doubt, by a fort*
night study, and also a little by the leftbns of the
writer, who proved to him that there was no im
propriety in acknowledging this principle, «nd that
it was indeed pledging ourselves to very little ; be
cause we reset ved still the full power of (hewing our v
selves as difficult as we pleased tefpe&ing the na
ture and the extent of the exchanges and propor
tionate compensations. At least the firll difficulty
.of formality has been done away, which is certainly
something, as the official' diplomatic notes will
shew. ■ -
If our Plenipotentiary, instead of his last infignifi
cant answer, had returned that which he uow gives,
and formerly admitted, as he now does, the principle
of compensation, he would have accelerated theiflue
of the negociation by a fortnight, and would have
not appeared to be a man who quibbles and recedes,
and pretends to have already said what in fact he
had not said. We might go 011 and a/Jc of Him >
little less diynefs and asperity of language ; but hi*
diplomatic education eannot be perfedl all at once.
By Lard Mamefcury's answer, which we do not
suppose he will fend to hit Cabinet by a Courier, ai
ths question addressed by the DireAory must have
been forefeen, we shall fee, whether he will also
make use of mare franknefs in his overtures ; whe
ther he will relinquish his perplexing and dilating
course, with men who despise and cannot patiently
bear the delay of formalities.
That of the two governments which, without
losing itfelf in the labyrinth of formalilies, shall an.
! nounce with prpeifion and moderation, the principal
conditions upon which it wishes to ntgociate, will
prove the sincerity afits pacific intentions, concili
ate the general opinion, and make it a terrible weap
on against its enemy. It wovld be worthy of the
Directory tt> set this great tnd fine example of loy
alty and good faith. ' «
LONDON, Dec. 1,
1 he following arrangements were yeflerday final
ly fettled.
The Earl of Weftmoreland to be Lord Privy Seal,
111 the room &f the Earl of Chatham, appointed
Prefidcnt of the Counejl.
The Earl of ChefterSeld to be Master of the
Horse to his Majesty, vice Lord Wcftmorelatid.
Lord Auckland to be one of the Poftmaftsts-Ge
neral, in the room of Lord Chefterfield.
Ine Duke of Roxburgh to be Groom of the
Stole to his Majesty, in the ream of the Marquis of
Bath, deceased.
Lord Macclesfield to be a Lord of the bed cham
ber, vice the Duke of Roxburgh ; and Lord Cbarlts
Somerset i&jo succeed Lord Macclesfield as comp
troller of the King's Houfhold-
Earl Howe is to have the Blue Ribbon as the
Marquis of Bath.
The Minister still prefeveres in his plan of a volur*
t* r y.fnbfcriptioß, and having obtained the pronnte
of eight millions fron public bodies, he i» eagertry what further may be drawn by tkefpmt of ex
ample, from the frank loyalty of the country.
Amonc the nigheft sums at the commencement
of the fubfeription we remarked the following :
The Bank of England £. 1,000,000
Bank Directors and Officers 400,000
Smi'h. Payne and Smith 1,000,®00
Boyd, Benfield and Co. 1,000,000
Meffas. Thelldffon and Co. 1,000,000
B. and A. Goldfmid 50,*00
Rebarw, Curtis and Qo. 50,000
Prefcot, Grote and Ca. • 50,00©
A. L. Mouatta 50,000
E. P. Salamona 40,000
John Cator, Esq. 30 / ®00
Mod of the Banking houses each 50,0»0
Towards the payment of the interrft on the pref
ent loan, the following are said to make a part :
An additional duty on Teas and on Spirits, For
eign and British. ~ /
On Livery Servants and Coaches.
A tax on Salesmen, on all placcs of Public En
tertainment—and
An additional duty on Cards and Dice.
.(COPY.)
•« Downing Street, Dec. 1. ,
" MY LORD,
" I take the liberty of transmitting to your
lordship a copy of the letter which I have thought
it my duty to write to the Governor and Deputy
Governor of the bank, and of the memorandum,
therein referred to, which it is their intention to lay
before a couit of proprietors this day. I have the
fatisfaftion of thinking, that the plan therein fug
gelled, is likely to receive the greatest countenance
from many great mercantile bodies and refpeftable
houses in the metropolis.
" The repeated proofs which the citjzens of Lon
don have given of their zeal and public spirit, leave
me no doubt, that if it appears likely to promore
the interests of the country at this important crisis,
it will receive theircheatful support in their indivi
a! capacity, »« well mt that «f the corporate body
i. and of the different public companies.
" It is unnecessary for me to state the effe£l
which such an example would produce throughout
the kingdom ; with this view, I would requcft
your lord(Uip, if you fee no impropriety in the
meafare, to take as speedily as poflible such (leps as
you may think moll advifeable for bringing the
fubjrfil under the consideration cf the com
mon council, and of the different public companies,
and for ascertaining to what exten' they may be
inclined to contribute to the success of the plan, in
the event of its teceiving the approbation of par
liament.
" I have the honor, Sic.
" W. PITT."
To the right how. the Lord
Mayor of London.
Decetiber 8.
* Our letters from Cowes, by yefterday'i poll co*-
' tain tha following intelligence:
' " A mod important embarkation of foreign
troops has just taken place here, dellined, it is be
lievea, for Portugal ; it eonfills of the following
different corps ; Lowentteis's Fuzileers, ditto Ran- j
jers, Huil'ars de Rohan, detachment of the regi
»jent Royal Etrangers, and York Rangers, with
onecompleat regiment of Baron Hompefch's, and
a few companies "f Montalembert's Infantry, a
mounting in all to 5000 effective men, well disci
plined and in good health. Pieviuus to their be
ing (hipped on'board the Coromandel, Weymouth,
and other transports, properly fitted up to receive
them for the voyage, they underwent the official it*
fpeftion of Sir Jerome Fitzpatrick, who thought
necessary to rejedt 30 only, oat of so great a num
ber, as unfit for service.
December 9.
Friday fe'nnight the town of Sunderland was
alarmed by an affiay which broke out between the
Westminster militia and the Lowland Fencibles,
bo'h quartered there, ft in the death
of a tame goat belonging to the Fencibles, which
wa6 wantonly killed by one of the militia-men.—
To appease the manea of their long-bearded play
fellow, which had followed the regiment out ot
Scotland, and was an universal favourite, the Fen
cibles assembled under arms, and sent a defiance to
their opponents, which was accepted : the parties
wetc drawn up in battle array in the barrack-ground
and the molt bloody confluences were every mo
mcct expe&ed, when the firm and Orenuous exerti
ons of his royal highness Prince William of Glou
celler, fortunately restored peace. The perpetra
tor of the oujrage is to be tried by a court martial.
Advice* were yesterday received at' the admiralty
from admiral Sir John Jervis, commander in chief
of the Biitifh fleet in the Mediterranean.—Their
contents are said to relate chiefly to the evacuation
of Corsica, which has been entirely completed, and
to the circumtiances of the Spanish Beet, having ar
rived in the port of Toulon ; both which events
bave already been announced in the Morning He
rald.
BOUSE ,f COMMONS.
December 2.
BUDGET.
Mr. Pitt gave notice, he. would defer what he
iatended to offer 011 the ways and mean* to Wed
nesday next.
Mr. Fox, confldering that the fuhjeft of Fi
nance would lead into much discussion, was defirnus
that estimates of the navy debt up to the end of No
vember, should be laid before the house. The pre
sent accounts were made up only t» the end of
Oftobcr.
Mr. Pitt said it was his with, that those as well
as all other accounts, (hould be made up to the la
tcft date poflible.
SUPPLY.
The Secretary at War having moved the estimates
cf the army—
Mr. Grey wished to know when the extraordi
naries would be brought forward ?
Mr. Pitt and Mr. Windham explained, that it
was usual to make them up to the 21ft of Febru
try, before which it could not be done without de
ranging the cuftoqnary business of the office.
Mr. Grey then expressed his disapprobation of a
Chancellor of the Exchequer proposing way* and
means for the ensuing, before he could make up
(he account! »f the current year.
Mr. M. A. Taylor wilTied to know whether
under the Secretary at War, there was such a new
i officer as Infpe&or Geneial of Emigrant corps ?
i And what was the expence of that appointment ?
, Mr. Windham replied that tha service alluded
i to was important as well as new—that it was per
i formed by a person who held another office, and
i that he was not prepared to fay what was the a
, mount of the salaries.
i General Tsrleton combated some ,of the state
, ment* in the eftinaates, after which he went into
i some general topics refpe&ing the new arrange
ments about to be made in the island of St. Domin
, go. He undeiftopd, he ftid, that a corps of IO
tr 12 thousand men was to be sent to Portugal,
and if wc had such a number to spare, it was a great
hardlhip to harrafs every gentleman who kept a
horse with such inconveniences as were felt from the
cavalry tax. He apprehended that it would be
very difficult for any officer with fach troops as
could row be spared him, to gain any reputation
in the defence of Portugal, and was afraid that they
would fare just as well as Holland and our allies in ;
the Mediteranean.
Mr. Serjeant moved the sum of one million nine
• thousand pounds for the service of the Ordnance.
Mr. Fox asked whether in that sum was inclu
ded the expence of arms for the additional cavalry.
, A rumour, he said, had gone abroad hitherto un
contradicted, that, either from an alte'ation in the
fituatiori of the country or the impratfticability of
carrying it into execution, that a& aft was soon to
! be repealed, 01, atlcart would not be acted upon.
Mr. Pitt replied, that aims for the additional
cavalry were included in the present estimate. As
to the rum >ur mentioned by the Right Hon. Gen
■ tleman, it was the firft time it had come to his
■ ears He had indeed heard, that some difficulties
, had arisen in the detail of the provisions, which may
render an explanatory aft proper in the course of
■ the session j—but he apprehended, there was no
thing that could obftruft the exeeution of a mea
sure, which he considered as necelf.iry at this mo.
ment, for the welfare and security of the country,
as he did when he firft moved for it.
Mr. M. i\. Taylor cxpieflcd bis joy at finding
that there would be another opportunity of d'fcuf
. sing thisaft, the provisions of whiVh he pronoun
ced to be absolutely impracticable. The gentle
, men whoattended the meetings upon it,, interpret
ed it variously ; and he would defy the minister
1 himfelf, or any man that fat near, him, or any man
in the kingdom to canftrue it.
Mr. Pitt ironically admitted, tliat if that lion,
gentleman profefled himfelf unequal to the con
ftruftion of the aft, it would be highly prefump
tuou's to him, or ony other prrfow, to arrogate the
capacity to-do so. Still, however, he hoped that
he might be excused if even after this difcouragc
. ment he (bould venture to attempt it.
Gen. Tarleton ol jeftcd lo the sum of 12,0001*
1 for fortifications at Dover and the .places adjacent.
There was no part of the kingdom (o well defended
by nature from an invasion of the en.my, as the
coast of Kent ; but if it were otherwise, every mi
litary man mulTTee that Dovet Caltle was little
i calculated 'o relist the attack of an enemy, and if
I they landed elsewhere, it could make little defence
when they should aflail it in reverse.
Mr. Serjeant explained, that th strengthening
of Dover became more nccelTary now, when the
French, by the poffiffion ef Holland, had so ex
tended a line of coast. The enemy mult firft be
come mailers of the castle before they csnld enter
the harbour, and additional fortificarfons, which
. in fact ceft no more than 1 20001. were recommended
by the noble lord at the head of the Ordnance de
partment, with all the military alMance he reqiii
-1 red, and the general who commanded in that dif
trift, recommended ft ill farther fortifications.
, Gen. Tarleton thought even 12,0001. too m*ch
1 for the proteftionof a few fidiing boats.
1 Capt. Berkely reminded hftn that Dover was a
- great depot for naval and military (tores.
f Bourdeaux Brandy, in Pipes,
OLD Claret, in caflA "
Ditto in cases, of an excellent quality
5 Lisbon Wine in pipes
, F urth proof Holland Gin
New-England Rum in hogfheadsand tierces
Raisins in kegs
Bcft Boston Beef and Pork
Halifax Salmon in barrels
Russia Sail Duck
Ravens Duck
A lew Feather Beds
j One ii 1-2 inch-'Cable ) c , r
p One 9 do do. \ 1,0 fathom * soM 8 cacl *
Speimac*ti Candles
r Mould and dipt Tallow ditto
) A few barrels Tanners Oil, and
I A/mail invoice of India Goods,
For Sale by
t JOSEPH ANTHONY & Co.
AljjO,
Just received from Marlcillei v , a final 1 invoice of Silks, Silk
Stockings, an afTortmeut of Periumery, and ja few cases of
the best Olive Oil.
February 15
For Hamburgh,
John Thompfun, Majlir,
, JUST coppered, and in complete order, and is how loading.
A conhderable part of her cargo is engaged, has g-*od aecom
' moda ions tor passengers, and intended to fail in the course
pi this month. —F® r freight or palfage, apply to the Master
on board, at Bright'* wkarf, or to
: JEREMIAH WARDER,
No* it north Third street.
I February 15 „ y mw&faw
For Amsterdam,
\ 1
The faft-failjng cedar and Jive oak
{hip Amiable,
C. Ttllinghajl, Mtjler,
JUST graved and in compleat order, and is now ta
king in, and intended to fail in all this month, a great
part of her cargo being ready to go on board, has good
accommodations for palTengers For freight or paflage
apply to th« mailer, en board, at Bright's wharf,
or to
JEREMIAH WARDER,
No. 12 South Third street.
FeWary ij , x nv%w
Ph r LA DEL P H'TA,
WEDNESDAY EVENING. FEBRUARY 15, 1797
STOCKS.
Six perCtnt. - - .... x^/4
Three per Cent. ------ - 9/4*6
4± per Cent.
per Cent. ------ ...
Deferred Sir per Cent. ....
BANK United States, ... II Al2 per ct
—« Pjnnfylvania, - - - 13 do.
— North \merica, - - - - 40 do.
[nfurance Camp. N. A. (hares, - 25 per ct.
Pennfylv. par.
COURSF. OF EXCHANGE.
On London,, at 30 days, 6i i-»
7 at 6® days, , 60
■at 90 days, 57 i-j *
Araftei*dam, 60 days, per guilder. 49
93 days, 4l
E.-ratum.
In the piece signed " Charondas", in yesterday's
Gazette, firft line, for read Legislature.
The Columbian Centincl of the Bth inft. fays,
" we are informed that Gen. Rochambeau is ap
pointed by the Directory of France to the chief mi
litary and civil core maud in the island of St. Do.
mingo, in the room of Sonthonax & his effbciat'es."
* ■ -
CAZET7E MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA,
CLEARED.
Ship John, Whitwell, Amsterdam
Brig Maria, Strong, CharUfton
Ihe brig Fox, Capt. Flowers, in- seven days from
Charleston, is arrived at New-York. Captain Earle,
of thefhip Golden Age, who came pjffengrr in the
Fox, informs, that himfelf, captains Kiiby, |Charnock
and Drylwugh, were detained 14 days on board of I
the French priviteer that captured tneir vessels, and
then taken to Caje Francois, which place he left on
the 15th of January. The brig Diamond failed for this
port the day before capt. Earle failed, and captains Ba
ker and Da Costa, of this port were nearly ready to
fail. The British flretthat had been cruising off the
cape a eonfiderable time had left their station, and all 1
was quiet in the neighbourhood of the Cape. Captain
Earle, further informs, that embargo?* were frequent 1
and American veflcls brought in daily by their cruizers j
which are very Captain Eirle was well j
treated on board the privateer. A number of vessels i
had retently p»t into Charleston by stress of weather. I
The brig Rover belonging to Baltimore is taken by j
the Fien:h on her pafiage from Malaga to Baltimore, '
and sent into Malaga'.
We are informed that the ship James, of Balti
more, lately sent into Guadaloupe, was captured
under at imprefTion that she wascarrying flour un
der eentraft to Mattinique, and that Mr. Bucha
nan, the supercargo., was thrown into gaol, under
the idea that he was a Scotch g-entleman of that
name; but, on its being afeertained that he was a
native American, and the property in tiuth belong
ing to native Ameiicans, there was an order given
to restore both (hip and cat go, and a perraifilon
Sjiven to fell and purchase a re:urn cargo.
The (hip Catha. ine, captain Farraday, belonging
to this port* is arrived at St. Thomas's, from Rot
terdam, in 47 1 lays passage.
NF.W-YOP.K, February 14. —Arrived,
Days.
Ship President, Loring, Liverpool 54
President, Predan, Wimin»jton 8
Barqae Eliza, Atkins, Boston 9
Brig Gracie, Oiftiing, Poit-au-Prince 34.
Lydia, Alufon, Alexandria 7
Schr. Ltiey, , Florida 11
Juno,.Clark, New Port 4
Sloop James, Atwoo-J, N.Carolina 6
Brig Martha, Bland;* belonging to Virginia,
from Leith, bound to this port, w»s put back to
Leith iu distress, after being oat 15 days in the N.
Seas, with the loss of her marts.
The brig Polly, Perez Cheefeborongh, master, be
longing to E. Hindman and S. Hulburt, of New-Lon
don, is wrecked on a reef of Block-Island. The cap
tain and second mate were saved with difficulty—Mr.
Fullerfoa, a paffei.ger, J. Gould, a mariner, and a
black man, loft their lives.
By this day's Mails.
NEW-YORK,. February 14.
Attempts have bee* made to set fire to New-Lon
ckm, and a bam of Gurdon Hewitt burnt.—Since our
lift account, the barn of Lynde Lathorp, of Norwich,
has been buriit.
The ciicumftance refpe&ing the capture of the
seven English (hips, by the French, and being car
ried into Gatiudaloupe, was confirmed by a letter
received at Kingston, Jamaica, the 17th ult. from
Curracoa. Two of them are from Ireland, two
from Scotland, one from London, oue from Liver
pool, and one from Bristol—The feme letter men
tions that the force at Curracoa consists of two
Dutch frigates, who have the Orange colours fly
ing ; the Peufee, and another French frigate, all
which are in a miserable (late.
The arrival of the ship President, Captain Lo
ring, from Liverpool, yesterday, though foe brings
accounts several days later than we have received,
does not furnifh us with any thing of material con
sequence. The following'concife extra&s are from
the latest papers—we shall devote a larger propor
tion of out to morrow's Gazette to the insertion of
such other materials as may be found worthy of
publicity.
LONDON, December 10.
The Marquis of Bute arrived in town on Wed
nesday evening from the Continent, and yesterday
he had an interview with the secretary of state for
the foreiga department.
Accounts have been received in town from the
Mediterranean, by the Audacious of 74 guns, capt.
Gould, which state that the Spaßiftt fleet having
put to sea, had met with a violent gale of wind, in
which La Trimdade had run down a large frigate, -
and that the fleet had been difperfed—five fail had
put into Minorca, and three into Carthagena, dis
masted, and the reft of the fleet remained tinac
counted for.
December ij.
Mr. Ellis, we underftacd, fct off this morning en
liis return to Pans ; he carries with him it is faM.
the inftru&ions 10 lord Maltr.elbury refpefting 'lie
terras of cotrpesOt'ion to be proposed to the rxe
'c«ti»e direftf ry ; these inllrufliong were finally fet
tled at a cabinet cuun.il, held sn Saturday.
Admiral Vandeptit has taken two Spanish flilpi
from the Hav mnah, richly laden. Oixof them ar»
rived off Portfmeuthon Fiiday evening.
We rejoice to hear that a requtlitidn has been
made te the lord mayor for a common hall, to con
iider tlyp fubjeft of advancing money to the em
peror, during the fitting of parliament, without its
cenfent.
An express was on Saturday afternoon received
at the admiralty office, Rating that his majesty's
(hip La Reunion, of 36 guns, in her passage from
Sheerncfs to Yarmouth, had Ittuck on a sand bank
in the Main, and was tetallj loft ; we have however
the pleafore to add, that captain Baynton, and all
the crew except three, are saved. »
x This vcffcl was reckoned one of the fwifteft fail
ing (hips in his majesty's navy ; (he was taken from
the French the 20th of October 1793, by
Crefent frigate, commanded by captain Saumarez,
having, after a smart engagement, (buck, en the
Circe, of 28 guns, appearing in fight.
The Reunion was intended, by government, to
proceed to Cuxhaven, to take under her convoy,
the Cynthia (loop, en board of which the prince
of Wirtemberg and suite are to embark for Etjg
land.
December 13.
The Olive Branch, an American veflel, which
was taken and carried into Portsmouth, a few day»
ago, by the Audacious man of wsr, en examina
tion appears to have 37 thoufatid Hand of arms,
inftcad of 20 thnufand as Sift stated, and above 25
pieces of artillery, moldy brass, among which latter
are some of the park artillery lojl duke of
York before Dunkirk.
* December 15.
This day we received the French Journals te the
I.2th inflant: The following arc the leading par
ticulars :—
Louvet, in his paper of the I ith, fays, A let
ter from Milan announces, that the flag of distress
is flying on the ramparts of Mantua. He adds,
that news which appears to be more certain, is that
Kleber, with 30,000 men, has'parted the Rhine at
Oppenbeim, to anßoy the operations of the arch
duke against Kehl.
Letters fiem Strafcurg announce, that the bridge
of Kehl has been d«ftroyed, which makes it more
likely that the place will fall into the hands of the
Auftrians. -
A letter from Neuwied dates that the Archduke
has refufed axt armistice requested by Moreau
ThcEnglflh have quitted the Isle of Elba, but
have left a convoy there. It is said they are about
te return thither in considerable force.
The Brett fleet still remains in the road, it hai
2 2 thousand troops on board.
Nothing further has transpired refpc&ing the ne
gociatiens for p.ace. In the interim th* Diredio
ry fend couriers to Vienna, the Emperor to Petcif
burgh, and Lord Malmefbtiry to London.
PLYMOUTH, Dec. 7
Arrrited La Suffifante (loop of war, Capt. N.
Tomlinfon, from a cruize ; alfothe American bvig
Harriet Johnson, Capt. Strong, from Bilboa, bound
to Hamburgh, laden with branny and rum ; and
h« flaop Capt Marks, from Lisbon,
bound to London, laden with fruit, both detained
by La Suffifante.
Remain in the Sound, ttie Cerberus and Huflar
frigates.
PORTSMOUTH, Dec. I.
The Audacious, of 74 guns, Capt. Gould, whick
arrived yesterday afternoon, has brought into thi*
port the American (hip Olive Branch, Capt. Wm.
Bryan, laden with 20,c00 stand of arms, and seve
ral field pieces, which came from Oftend, and was
supposed te be either destined te accompany the ex
pedition reported to be fitting at Bred, or for the
mal contents in Ireland. She was taken off U(hant
by the Audacious, having been feveß daya from
Oftend.
Arrived this evening, the Earl of Chatham cut.
ter, from Guernsey. She brings no material intel
ligence.
DUBLIN, December 6.
By a gentleman just arrived from Belfaft, we are
happy to learn, that the inhabitants of that wealthy
town are in a state of the most perfect tranquillity;
that the pursuits of commerce and manufailure were
at no former period more sedulously followed, and that
every thing carries the air of peace and industry.
The whole of the county of Antrim we are pleased
to find enjoys the fame uninterrupted tranquillity ; not
a parilh in it has been disturbed, even for a day; of
course not one has been proclaimed.
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 313, HIGH-STREET.
GEORGE DAVIS announces to his profeflional friends,
and the Gentlemen of the Law, generally, through th*
Union, that his late importation of BOOKS is now arrang
ed, and ready for Sale, from a (ingle volume t® an entire li
brary, without any advance upon his former exceeding low
prices, which forfeveral years past have in so dilhnguifhed a
manner recommended them'to notice.
Printed Catalogues combining the ra®ft extensive collec
tion 6f the latest Eoglifh and Iri(h Editions ever imported
into this country, are published, and will be delivered giaut
on application.
Orders addrcfled to G. D. in writing from, say di&anc*
(hall be pun&ually attended to*
A number of 1 RUNKS for Sale.
ALSO, TO BE LET,
A convenient LOFT, near Market Street Wharf.
OT.S. tu*f 3 »
A MANUFACTORY for Sale.
A valuable SOAP and CANDLE Mmnufafiory, fitutse
m a convenient part of the city j the works almotl new,
on an entirely original conftruftioii, and built otihe best
materiaU, and may be set to work immediately. Pcffous
who wi(h to purchase, are requested to apply at No *73,
South Second Street. Septesnbor 13. t t f tf
Partnership dilfolved.
THIS is to notify tha Public, and all perfom concerned
that the Partnerfliip of BLACK Is" WELLS, deal
ers in Oxy Goods, was diffohred the firft of January last.
.... , , , . XQJIMJtT MLACK.
Philadelphia, Isfcraarjr 14, 1797" sjwLancajter, Harr\(burgh, Carlisle, Ship
penjburg and Sunbury J
STAGES.
The public are requcfted to take notice, that the part- C
nerfhip which has fer some fobfifted between Mathi
as Slough of Lancaster, and William Geer, is now dilTol
ved : but, not as M. Slough infmuates to the public J)
without just cause ;as will more fully appear by at letter a
on the fubjed; from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the d
49th December last. a recital of which is not now deemed j.
necessary. Any gentleman who wilhe6 to be more cir s
cumflantially informed of the merits of this business, by j
applymg so W. Geer may have the perusal of M. Slough'* b
letur, and then can be at full liberty to determine whe
ther or not W. Geer isnotperfe&ly juftifiabie in attach- <
iug himfelf to any other perfori in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippeniburg,
or any other place. t
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the public t
were pleased to confer on the firft effort in this bufinef*, £
"William Geer, in conjunction with MefTrs. Reily, Weed
and Witmer, is determined to prosecute and carry it on, c
with every care, attention and dispatch that a zeal to o
blige the public can pofiibly exert. f
The above company, who are amply provided with ,
carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to render the j
pafTage fafe and commodious, inform those who wish to t
patronize and encourage the undertaking, that they can
take their feats at George Weed's, the sign of the White {
Horse, Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday t
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg, Carlisle ,
and Shippeniburg. The fare as hitherto eftablifted.
For the further accommodation of the public, a Stage
will start every Wednesday from the house of Samutl
in Harrifburg, arrive at Sunbury in Northumber- (
land county, every Thursday, and return from thence and ]
arrive at jHarrifburg every Saturday, so that passengers ,
destined for Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed 011
Mondays.
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster, Jan. 27, 1797*
N. B. This Line of Stages starts from the house of
William Ferree, in Lancaster, on every Tuesday and Sa
turday morning at 6 o'clock, proceeding to the westward;
and from the house of Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg
every Wednesday morning, on the fame evening arrives
at Patrick Cochran's in Shippeniburg, and returns from
thence on every Thursday : performing] the fame routine
daily as in its tour from Philadelphia. mwf
SWAN N'S "
Riding School, Horse Academy Infirmary,
Adjoining the Public Square. Market Street.
T. SWANN
RETURNS hi* sincere thanks tothofe gentlemen by whom
lie has been employed, during his residence in this City, and
flatters himfelf that the success of his efforts, io the numerous,
obstinate and dangerous diseases in Horses, in which he has
been consulted, together with his njoderate charges, will fe
ure their future favors and recommendation.
He now begs leave to inform them and the public at large
that his spacious and commodious premises, ere&ed for the
purposes above deferibed are open for the reception of pupils
©f either sex, who wish to beinftrutted in the Art of Riding,
and the right method of governing their horses, so as to ride
them with ease, elegance, and fafety—their horses will be
carefully and expeditioufly broke, for ev?ry purpose, and
made obedient to: he will of the riders ; the natural powers
■which are ftiut up in them, will be unfolded by art, calling
forth uniformity of motion, and giving to that noble animal
ell those beauties of a&ion which providence has so bounti
fully bellowed on them.
Also, at his hospital, every disorder to which the horse is
liable will be treated according to the rules of art, confirmed
by long and repeated experience.
The utility of institution has never been qneftion.
Ed, that it has long been wanted in this city, every gentleman's
flud willmanifefl, and T. Swann as the fitft eflahlifher of
the veterenary art, solicits and relies upon the fuppoit of that
public (which he is ever anxious in serving) to enable him to
bring it to perfe&ion. The idea of a fubfeription for that
purpose has beeu hinted by several gentleman, who wish to
promote the institution—the amount of each fubfeription to
be returned by in any of theYlepartments'.heprofefles,
agreeable to the rate of charges stated in his hand bill. Such
flibfcription is now open, and the fignaturesof many refpeft
able gentlemen already obtained. He therefore injorms his
friends and such Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has not
the honor of being known, that he Ihall in a few days take
thelibertyof waiting upon them and folicking their support
and prote&ion.
N. B. Horses are properly prepared for those Ladies and
Gentlemenwho wish *o be inftru&ed.
Nov» 5. tth&f<
Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE.
No. 63 South Third fWeet,oppofite the national new BankJ
Samuel m frounces andjoHN van reed"
have entered into co-partnership, under the firm of
FRAUNCES & VAN REED, in the business of Brokers,
Conveyancers and Commiflion merchants. They buy and
fell on commiflion every species of flock, notes of hand,
bills of exchange, houses and lands, &c.
Monet procured on deposits, &c. &c. -all kinds of
' writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatnefsand
dispatch; accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the
mod corre<Sl manner. Constant attendance will be given.
They solicit a share of the public favor ; they are deter
mined to endeavour to deserve it.
N. B. The utmost secrecy observed.
SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES,
JOHN VAN REED.
Philad. AUgnft 27, 1796. m&wtf
James M'Alpin,
No. 3, South Fourlh-Jlreel,
RETURNS hs grateful acknowledgments to his
Friends and the Public for their liberal encouragement,
and begs leave to folifit a continuance of their favors.
He has on hand an extensive afTortment of the
Mod Fajhionable GOODS,
And of the quality, suitable for the season.
At this fliep Gentlemen can be furniihed withf,J»e b«fl
materials, and have them made up in the neatest and mod
Falhionable manner, and sn the lhortcft notice. He will
thankfully receive any orders, and pay a prompt and
pun&ual attention., to them.
November 10. ws
This Day is Publiflied,
By BIOREN & MADAN, at their Printing Office,
No. 77, Dock-street, and fold by the principal
Booksellers in this City.
The American Annual Register;
Or historical Me/aoirs of the United States, for the
Year 1796.
No. 167.
DiJlriS of Ptnnfylvania, to <wit :
Be it remembered, that on the 19th day of January
in the Twenty-firft year of the Independence of., the
United States of America, Bioren & Madan of the said
diftriift have deposited in this Office the title of a Book
the Right whereof they «laim as proprietors in the
words following ta wit.:
«• The American Annual Register, or Historical
««Merpoirs of the United States, tor the year 1796.
In conformity to the aft of the Congress of the
United States entituled " All aift for the encourage
ment of learning byi securing the copies of Maps,
Charts and Books, to the authors and proprietors of
fueh copies during the time therei. mentioned."
Samuel Cslbwui,
Clerk Pennsylvania DiftriA.
, Juuwty 2f. iaw4
PROPOSALS,
For carrying the Mails of the United
States, '
On the following Pojl Roads, -will be rturned until
tbe firjl day of March next inclusive ; a
•I. From Ch irlefluii, S. C. by Jackfonboro' and Coofa- ((
iiatchy, to Savannah, twice a week. Recciv? the Mail
at Charlsfton every Tuclday aad Friday by 6, P. M. and
deliver it at Savannah the next Friday and Monday, by &
A. M. Returning, receive the Mail at Savannah eve'y
Saturday, by 6, P.M. and Wednefdiy by 6, A. M. and
deliveV it at Charleston the next I'uefday and Friday
bynaon.
fmpofili for this route ■will be received «y the pojt-majier at
: Savannah.
2. FromCoofahatchy to Beaufort once a week—
Receive the mail at Coofahatchy every Thursday by 6,
r. M. and deliver it at Beaufort by noon on Friday.
i turning, leave Beaufort every Friday by 3, P. M. and arrive
at Coo ahatchy on Saturday by 8, a. *.
Proposals for carrying the mail on this route will be r«-
ceived by the post-master at Beaulort.
Note I. The Polt-mafter General may alter the times
for th 4 arrival and departure of the mails at any time du- (
ring the continuance of the contrails, he previously ftipu-
lating an adequate csmpenfation for any extna expence
that may be oeadioned thereby. _ c
Note 2. For every hours delay (unavoidable accidents f
excepted) in arriving after the times prescribed by con
trail, the contractor lhall forfeit one dollar, and if the
delay continue until the departure of any depending mail {
an additional forfeiture of five dollars lhall be incurred.
Note 3. Should any person making proposals desire an
alteration of the times of arrival and departure above fpe
cified, he mull Hate the alteration desired and the price
he will carry the mail for with and without such alte
ration.
Note 4. The contrails are t» bc in operation on the
firft day of April next and to continue until the 30th of
September in the year 1800.
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Ptijl Majier General.
.General Port Office, >,
Philadelphia, Jan. 13,1797. J
v-m. i&. tawfiw. ;
]
Particular TeneriiFe Wine.
50 Qusrter-Calks Particular Teneriffe WINE,
Of a superior Quality,
For sale by A. MA&PLE Iff IS. IV. MORRIS,
No. 60 Dock-flrect.
February 8
By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64,
South Second-flreet.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
For raising Sixty Thousand Dollars, agreeably to an A£l of
the Legislature of Pennfylva<aia, palled during the last
feflion, for building a Stone Bridge over the River
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, i» the County of
Berks. Dollar*.
1 Prixe of 20,00? Dollars - 20,00©
1 do. of to.ooo do. i • lOjPoo
3 do. of sjOoo do. • • 15,000
4 do. of 2,000 do. - • 8,000
20 do. of 1,000 do. - 20,000
39 do. of 500 do. - - 19,500
80 do. of 200 do. • 16,000
200 do. of 100 do. - 20,00 c
300 do. of 50 do. - - i|,«oo
x do< of 500 do. to be paid the poflfef- ) 0
for f the firft drawn no. ) ®
5 doi of 3,«oo do. to be paid poflefTors )
of the fire last drawn nos \
9,400 do. o 15 do. 1 - 141,000
10,05 j. Prizes 300,000
19,946 Blanks 1
30,000 Tickets at Ten Dollars 300,000
All Prizes (Hall be paid fifteen day* after the drawing is
fiuifhed, upon the demand of a polTeflor of a fortunate
picket, fubjeft to a dedu£tion of twenty per cent. The
Drawing will commence as foorfws the Tickits are difpoft-d
of, or perhaps sooner. of which public notice will be given.
Philip Miller > Peter Kcrjhner, William lV'ttman t
Jof.ph H'tefter, Jam?! Diemer, Thomas DunJas,
James May> John Otto, John Ke'tm, Daniel Craejf>
Seba/lian Miller 9 Commissioners.
Reading, May the 9th, 179S
Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. 2, to be had at the
above office, where the earliest information of the draw
• ing of the Washington No. 2, and Patterfon Lottery's,
1 are received, and check books for examination and regif
tering are kept.
1 Tickets in the above Lottery te bo had at Mr, Sheri
dan's Race-street, John Hay, North Third-street and
Henry Swayer's, German Town.
January 26 sawtf
Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64, South Second street.
TCKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. z, for fele—a
Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
the late lottery.
Check Books kept for examination and rendering, for
the City of Washington, No. a, and Patfefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information where
tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawo
tickets. A complete Jift of all the prizes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
' examination.
The fubCqriber solicits the application of the public
and his friends, who with to purchase or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bjlls of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
&c- orto obtain money on deposit of property.
%* Also Tickets in the Scfmylkill Bridge Lottery for
t sale at Ten Dollars each, whieh will be drawn early in
1 the Spring.
1 ' Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, January 46, 1797. mth
Houses and Lots for sale,
j Y the Subscriber, in the town of West-Chester, Chef-
J3 ter county, 15 miles from Philadelphia, on the great
leading Westward' Viz. No. 1. A'two-flory
Stone House, the corusr of High and Gay streets, 40 feet
- front by 34 feet deep, including a very convenient florc
houfe : the House contains ten w«ll-finifhed rooms, a kit
chen and entry : the Lot is 144 feet front on Gav-ftreet
—equal to any stand in Weft-Cheller. No. a. A two-fto- 1
ry stone house adjoining, 27 feet from, containing eleven
e Wcll-finifhed rooms, both being ceiled in the glcrets, house
j and lot fame depth »s the other, a kitchen, Itc. hilars
under both houses, with good stables on the kits. These
Houses are almost new, done by good workmen, in a
masterly manner. No. 3. a Lot 42 feet front. No 4
34 feet. No- 5, 44 feet. No. 6, n 9 feet, all of them
ten rods deep. On two of the above are erefied three log
and frame houses two stories high, cellars under the
e whole, and a finali liable to each*
The above Lots are situated near the Court-Hoafe The
, wh ole will be exposed to PUBLIC SALE, on the lift and
it lid days of February n«t, at two o'clock, when the con
ditions will be made known Possession may be had the
firft of April ceic. The Title is indifputakle.
JOHN lONNARD.
, J aßU «y»B Iw w 3w
Washington Canal Lottery,
N°. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authored
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
two hundred, and fifty, dollars, for the purpose °f "tting
r Canal through the City of W.lhington, fro* th Po
tomac to theEaftern Branch Harbour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz -l Prize of *0,000 dollars, 10,000
I ditto 10,000 lo >°° o
7 lad drawn 7 35,000
Tickets, each J
6 ditto x,ooo /• °>° 00
10 ditto 400 4,00e
10 ditto too 2,000
r 5 ditto 50 i
5750 ditto 12 , J
To be raised for th. Canal, 16,15® }
' 1
5550 Prizes, 175,000 t
11650 Blanks, not two to a priie.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - iys,ooo 1
xhe Commiflioners have taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid aft for the pun&ual payment of
the prizes. ,
The drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as foor. °as tW> Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after the
drawing is finilhed, (ball be considered as relinquished for
the benefit ®f the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Jbg** ) NOT LEY YOUNG,
' DANIEL CARROLL, «/D.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
CUT of Walhiogtrn, Feb. 11. 5
FOR SALE,
About 1,600 acres of Land,
WELL situated, laying on and between Marft)
and Beech Creeks, Mifflin county, Pennsylvania, in
four separate Patents. For terms ot sale apply to
Wm. Blackburn,
No. 64, South Spcond-ftrfcet
January 26. mwftf
Porcupine's Gazette.
Proposals by WILLIAM COBBETT, opposite Christ
Church, Philadtlphia, for publilhing a news-paper,
to be entitled x
Porcupine's Gazette, hf Daily Advertiser.
Methsnks 1 hear the reader exclaim ; " What! have
we not Gazettes enough already ?" Yes, and far t®o
many : but those that we have, are, in general, con
duced in such a manner that their great number, in
stead of tendering mine unneceflary, is the only cause
that calls for its eftablilhment.
The gazettes in this country have done it more real in
jury than all its of>en enemies ever did or can do. They
mislead the people at home and misrepresent them a
broad. It was these vehicles of sedition and discord
that encouraged the counties in the Weft to rebel ; it
was th6y that gave rife to the depredations of Britain,
by exciting the people to such aits-os violence against
that nation, as left no room to doubt that we were,de
termined on war ; anil it was they, when an accom
modation had been happily efledied, that stirred up an
opposition to it such as has seldom been witnefled, and
which was overcome by mere chance. These gazettes
it was, that, by misrepresenting the dispositions of the
people, encouraged the French to proceed from one
degree of insolence to another, 'till atJafLtheir JJdinif
ter, braves the President in his chair, a»d a bullying
commander comes and tells us that his only business is
to fe'w.e our vessels, in violation of a treaty, in virtue
ot which alone he claims a right to enter our ports : and
it is thei'e gazettes that now have the impudence to pe
fend what (heir falfehood and malice have produced
I shall be told that the people are to blame ; that
they are not obliged to read these abominable publica
tions. But they do read them; and thousands who
read them, read nothing else. ,To suppress them is im
poffilole ; they will vomit forth their poison ; it is a pri
vilege of their natures, that no law can abridge ; and
therefore the only mode left is* to counteract its effefls.
This must be done, too, in their own way. Books,
or periodical publications in the form of books, may
be of some service, but are by no means a match for
their flying folios. A falfebood that remain? uncontra
dicted for a month, begins to be looked upon as a truth,
and when the dete&ion at last makes its appearance, it
is often as ufflefs as that of the dodlor who finds his
' patient expired. The only method of opposition, then,
is to meet them on their own ground ; to set feot to
foot ; dispute every inch and every hair's breadth ;
fight them at their own weapons, and return them two
blows for one -
A gazette of this stamp is what I hive long wilbed to
fee, but I have wilhed and uxpeiSled it in vain. Indig
nation at the fupinenefs of others has at last got the
, better of all diffidence in my own capacity, and has dc
! termined me to eneounter the t*k. People have heard
one Tide long enough ; they (hall now hear the other.
CONDITIONS.
I. Porcupine's Gazette fcall be of the usual fixe,
and the subscription Eight Dollars a year, to be paid at
i the expiration ef eash half year.
a. Advertisements will be mferted at half the usual
price, which will always be required in ready money.
3* The Censor, containing those pieces from the
gazette that may appear worth preserving in a more
' portable form, with such amplifications and amend
' ments as time may give rife to, shalL be published
month.y, and each fublcriber ihall be entitled to a copy,
, delivered with his paper as the end of the month,
4- If a fufficient number of ftjbfcribers be obtained
the firft number ef the Gazette shall appear on, or be
fore the sth of March.
A ' u ' ) '* :ri P non hook is now open at my shop,
opposite Christ-church, whither gentlemen in the coun
try, who wifti to fubferibe, are requeftedto fend their
names.
Sublcriptions are taken at Boston by Mr. James White,
< bookfclier-; *t Salem, by Mr. Debeny, peft-nufter ;
' at New-Haven by Mr. Beers, baokfeller ; at Newbu
ry.port, by Mr. £. Blunt, bookseller; at Ne.v-York,
- J u r ;, S> Cam P bell > bookseller ;at Baltimore, by Mr.
O. Hill, bookseller; at Chester-town, Maryland, by
- \ ~ mes Arthur, poft-mafterj at Eafton, do. by
" r V Gr^ nbur >' > at Frederick-town, do. by
e Meflrs. Ifaic and John Merrtz ; at Richmond, Virg.
5 w rr Pntchard and Bavidfon ; at Norfelk, by
e m v 1Ul " bow ali <l Hannah; and at Charleston, by
a Mr. Young, bookseller. •
I. Ja "' 2% - mwfiot.
* .THE SUBSCRIBER
e Sumw f lfeemin » whether a certain EDWARD
XM UViLL, by trade a Stone-Cutter, or Brick-Layer,
e who quitted Ireland in 1783, or 17,84, *od came into
d this Country, ( tis supposed to Philadelphia) about
our y. ex " C , nc , e > bc or dead. As this jntelli
lC gence is of the higbcft importance, it will be thankful
ly received, by GEO. DAVIS,
n , No- 313, High-street
December ju ,m
landing,
AT Walnat-ftreet wharf, frem on board the ship P e ».
gy, captain Elliott, from Bourdeaux,^
VIN DE GRAVE, or White Claret, iu Hhds and Or.
Calks
RED CLARET, in Hhds
Ditto in cases of 24 and 30 bottles each
Gr«en and Souchong TEAS, in quarter chests
For sale by
Rundle & Leech,
Nn. 9 Walnut.street.
Februa»y 6 mwf'tf
No. 170.
Dijlrii7 of Pennsylvania, to wit.
BE it remembered, that on the 24th day of January
in the twenty-fii it year of the independence of the United
States of. America, John Thompson of the said diftriA,
hath deposited in this office the title of a Book, the right
whereof he claims as proprietor, in the words following
to wit—
" A Comparative View of the Constitutions of the
several States with each other, and with that of the
United States, exhibiting in tables the prominent features
of each Constitution, and cUffing together their most
important provisions under the several heads of adminis
tration : with notes and observations. By William Sjnith
ps South-Carolina, 11. b. and member of the Congress
of the United States."
In conformity to the ail of the Congress of the United
States, intituled "An A6l for the encouragement of
learning by securing the copies of maps, charts and books,
to the authors and proprietors of such eopies during th»
tim«s therein mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk of the Diftridl of Pennfylvanin
Fel». I. Jaw 3
For Sale
By private contraS, a "very valuable EJlate, known by
the name of
CHATHAM,
MOST delightfully situated on the north bank of Rap
pahanock river, opposite the town of Frederickfburg, In
the slate »of Virginia, confiding of eleven or fifteen hun
dred acres, as may best suit the puichafer. There is on
this eft ate, a large and well built brick house, containng
nine commodious rooms, exclufiveof a spacious hall or en
try,. 21 feet square, two pair of Aairs, Hiitabie and conven
ient passages, and excellent dry cellars. It is placed on a
fine healthy eminence, commanding beautiful views in
every direction over the towns of Frederickfburgh and
Falmouth, and an extensive cultivated country.—The
grounds adjoining the house are neatly laid out in pleas
ure «nd kitchen gardens interspersed with a variety ojF
scarce trees, a choice collection of flowers aHd flowering
Ihrubs, and enriched by various forts of the following
fruits, viz' apples, pears, walnuts, chofnuts, eherries,peach
es, plumbs, ne&arines, apricots, grapes, figs, rafberrie#*
goofeberries,ftrawberries,and currants; the whole admi
rably varied by turfed slopes which have been formed by
great labour and expence. Bordering upan these im
provements, are several lots, in a highftate of cultivation,
and well fat with red clover and orchard grass, from
which three heavy crops of hay are taken every year. Ad
jacent thereto are two large and flourilhing orchards; one
©f well chosen peach trees, the other of apple and pear*
trees, fele&edfrom the best nurseries in the state. Pro
perly detached from the mansion house are extenfire
roomy offices of every denomination, viz. a Kitchen and
Larder, house-keeper's room and Laundry, with a cellar
underneath for a variety of purposes, a flore-boufe and
lmoke house all of brick, a dairy and spring house of Itoae. > '
Stables for thirty horses, and coach houses for fqur car
riages. Alfoalarge and well planned farm yard, uith
barn and granary, a cow house, with separate |stalls for
th irty-fix grown cattle; apartments for fattening veals.
muttons larok»-fr-pxtenii.vg Ihdde. «h4 other
arrangements for stock of every description, with a large
and convenient receptable for provender, from which they
can be furnifhed without being exposed to the inclemency
of the weather. An overseer's house, blacksmith's Ihop,
and quarters fufficient to accommodate in the best man
ner more than fifty labourers. '
The arable lands are f«») advantageously divided as ta af
ford an opportunity of making a large quantity of Indian
corn annually, without bringing the field into similar cul
ture oftner than once in four years; consequently the
lands may be improved by keeping up the inclofures during
the intermediate years, or may be ben«ficially fallowed for
wheat and other grain at the option of the proprietor.
On the premises there isalfo a merchant mill with on#
pair of best French burr stones, and one pair of Cologne;
furnifhed with modern machinery, and now leafed for the
unexpired term ot four years, at 1501 per annum, and all <
grain for thfe use of the farm, hopper free, which is near-' ~
ly iool. more. The mill and miller's house are built of
free stone, within a very small distance of navigation, near
to which are two or more valuable Ufhcrles, and a well
atcuftomed ferry over the Rappahannock to the town of
Frederickfburg. The land contains inexhaustible quarries
of free ftene near to the river, is plentifully supplied with
remarkable fine water atiid poflfeffes a due proportion of
meadow, which by having the command of water may
be considerably increased. The roads are good, and the
neighbourhood genteel andfociable. Infadl, exclufiveof .
an improveable and well conditioned farm, the value and
emolument inseparably conne<fled witn a mill, ferries,
fifheries and quarries eligibly situated ; the profits anting
from ?in ice-house inferior to none in the state, and a gar
den of four acres so abundantly stocked with vegetable*
ofalifort£ as to'lje £ully equal to the demand in market,
there might be detailed many other advantages, apper
taining to the fertility of these lands, which the fubferiber
conceives it unnecessary to mention, being fully convinced
that when examined, it will be found to b6 a complete,
pleasant and healthy residence, pofieffiiij beauties and
conveniences fufficient to attra& the attention of any per
son desirous of becoming a purchaser.
The motive which induces the fubferiber to offer for
sale an estate so Angularly beautiful and advantageous, is
a defjre to become an inhabitant of Alexandria, where he
can with more ease attend to his interests in the neigh
bourhood of that city.
The purchaser may he accommodated with a few fiaves
in families, feither for plantation or doraeftic use. A part
of the purchafc money will be required and the balance
made easy, the debt being properly secured.
WILLIAM FITZHUGH.
Chatham, (Virg..) Dec. 19, 1796. nth—aawxm.
Le Breton,
surgeon-dentist,
Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Denjift to the
King and Royal Family of France, member of the
College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris,
Keeps a complete aflbrtment of every thing neceffirj
to be used forthe
• Preservation of the Mouth and Teeth.
Patent Mineral Teeth, and Human &. Ivory Teeth.
Dentrifice in powder; Opiate; excellent Elixir for
sweetening the mouth and preserving th« teeth —he
also furnifhes Bruthes and foft Sponges.
* He liyes in Chefout-flreet, No. 135, abnve
> Fourth-flreet.
t November 26. tts
3
t ■ ■ I■' ' 11 11 11 . i .
i PRINTED BY JOHN FENMO,
—No. 119 —
C H E S N VI T-S T R E C T.
(Pricc Eight Dollars |)U Annum,}