fZttZ oj the 6*Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
By John Fenno, N°' i i 9 Cbefnut Street.
Numb£J! 1482.]
" NOTICE.
* THE ro pnrtncrftjip of John Mills,
and John Mi'!?) jun. Bookiellervand Stationers, un
der the firm of W. Young, Mills and Son, is ihis
d»v diltolved by mutual confirm. Allptrfons indebted
to the copartnerfiiip are requeftcd to make payment
to William Young, and those having demands are de-
Mred to produce their accounts for fcttlement^
William Toung,"
'John Mills,
John Mills, jun.
Philadelphia, Jure-6th, 1797.
W. YOUNG
Continue* the bookselling and ftationa*y business at
ibc.uf'ual place, wholesale and retail, where he ha#
now a very large adortment of
Writing and Printing Papers and Books,
Of which Catalogues with the prices affixed are de
livered gratis-
Wanted,
A person well qualified in the book felling and fta
tion?ry buflnefc. Application* will be received till
the firft July next, at No. south Second-street,
corner of Chefnut-ftrecU
June 6.
Now Landing,
jit Pratt'J <wbarf,
FROM on board the ship Themis Chilkley,
Capl. Rafer, from Bourdeaux,
CLARET in calks
Ditto in cases
White Wine Vinegar
Red Skim in boxes v
For Sale by
Rundle & Leech.
Mis 15 §
City of Washington.
SCHEME
Of the-Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificent d welling-boufe 10,000 dollars,
& calh 30,000, are 50,®0»
1 ditto ij.ooo & cafii 15,00 s 40,00#
1 ditto 15,000 & caih 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & cash 10,000 10,900
1 ditto 5,000 & eafh 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cafli 5,e00 10,000
1 cash prize of 10,000
t do. 5,000 each, are • 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - io,ooc
ja do. 500 - - ie,ooo
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
300 do. 5° " " 10,000
400 do. »5 * 10,000
1,000 do. 4® * 10,000
15,00 a do. 10 • >50,000
1<i739 Prizes.
3.3,161 Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 4*0,000
N. B. To favour those who may take a quan
tity of Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the la st drawn ticket, and the 30,000 tha last
hut one *.. • ...
And approved notes, securing payment in cither
mon«y or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received for any number not less than 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of
the private buildings to be eretSted in the City of
Washington—Two beautiful designs are already
ieleded for the entire fronts on two of the public
squares; from these drawing, it ispropofed to creel
two centre and f our comer buildings,as soon aspof.
fi'ole after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the mannerdefcribed in the fchcme for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduction of five per cent, will
be made to defray the necessary expenses of print
ing, Sec. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National University, to
be erefted within the city of Washington.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the
Piizes, ire held by the President and two Dire<£t
ors of tiie Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount of the lottery.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
.§, Tickets may be had at the Bank of Colum
bia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter
Gilman, Boston ; of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
and of Richard Wslls, Cooper's Ferry. *»
mwf
A few hhds. N. JS. Rum,
Of a SUPERIOR QUALITY,
HYSON ~)
YOUNG HYSON [TEAS, ib quarter chefls,
And IMPERIAL 3
FOR SALE BY
A. Marple & Ifracl W. Morris,
No. 60 Dock-street.
May 11 mw&fjt
Notice.
ALL persons indebted to the Estate of Sarah
Marshall, deceased, arerequefted to make
immediate payment, and those that have demands
against l'aii estate, are desired to bring in their ac
eosnts properly attested for fettlemr.it, to either of
thefubfcribcrs. Christofher Marshall, Jr.
Caspar W. Haines,
Abraham M. Garrigbes,
Administrators to the Estate of Sarah Marshall,
deceased. June 3 2aw3w
PennfylvaniaPopulation Company.
NOTICE is hereby given to the Share Hold
ers, that a further afleffiuent ofmn E dol
lars is levied on each (hare, payable as follows,
viz.
Six Dollars immediately, and
Three Dollars 011 the lftof July next.
Which they are requested to pay to the Treafu
ter of the Company, at the Company's Office,
No. 53, North Fourth-flreet, lgreeably to the
times above mentioned j ■ and they are further
informed, that 011 their negleAiag to pa the
fime as above directed, the feverat forfeitures
will be exa&ed. . .
By order of the Board,
SOL. MAKACHE, Treifurer.
May 17. d3ot
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal
Company,
1797.
THE STOCKHOLDERS
WHO are in arrears for any sums due on their .
rcfpe&ive lkarcs, are requested top*) the
fame.
WILLIAM GOVETT, Trcafurtr.
io BI4W
PHILADELPHIA
For Sale or Chaffer,
THE SHIP
P r? 3S£ WARR EN,
Benjtmin Church, AJaJler.
OF about 280 tORs burthen. En
quire of
Jeffe & Robert Waln-
May j6 §
- For Freight or Charter,
WS±t Brig Fame,
n FRANCIS KNOX, Mailer:
A strong, excellent veffcJ, has been just (heathed and
ready to receive a cargo. She will carry 2,000 bar
rels, has good accommodations so paflengera.
Apply to
Capt. Knox, or to
Kearny Wharton.
June 6. 6p
JohaTarris, matter.
A GREAT part of her cargo is engaged, and
file will fail in ten days. For freight or pal
fage apply to capt. Tarris, at Willing* & Francis'
wharf, or to GURNET & SMITH.
May 15 §
CStet For London,
MMM* WILLIAM PENNy
James 'Josiah, Majler.
WILL fail with all convenient fpced. For
freight or passage apply to
JeJJe & Robert Wain.
May 19 §
For Freight or Charter,
To any part of Europe,
The Swedijh Ship
Alexander Magnus,
Capt. Carl Cr. Ehsman,
A BOUT 150 tons burthen, in this port ; and
JLX also thebanifh Ship FREDERICK JULIUS
KAUS, of 450 tons, now lyine in Hampton Roads.
Apply to JOHN VAUGHAN.
■May 26. tuthf6t
For Sale,
The cargo of the brig Enterprise, Captain
Langdon from Bourdeaux, now landing at
Morton's -wharf,
CONSITING OF
514 hhds. of Claret 2 .
217 cases of ditto -a
100 cases ofSueetOil ]>-£ -°
no pipes London proof J | g
iq pipes ot Hplland prjDor 3 J W -a
Apply to
Wharton & Lewis,
No. 115, South Front St.
Said Brig,
WILL take a FREIGHT for
tf' e Weft-Indies or Europe, fails
I3U- fall, burthen about fifteen hun-
barrels, is in complete or
der, and will be ready to receive a cargo in a
few days. 1
Apply as above..
May 24 §
Millinery Room,
No. 136 Market-Jlreet.
MISS GHRXSTAL
TAKES an early opportunity ef acquainting
her Friends that (he has received by the
William Penn, a variety of NEW MfL
LINERY, &e. which (he hopes to be able to
ftiew them in a few days.
May 18 s3ot
The Commissioners
FOR carrying inteeffeA the TWENTY-FIRST
Article of the Treaty of Friendship, Limits,
and Navigation, between His Catholic Majesty
and the United States of America, hereby give in
formation to all Persons therein concerned, —That,
in order to terminate a'l differences, on account of
the losses sustained by the Citizens of the United
States, in consequence of their Vessels and Car
goes having been taken by the Subje&aof His Cath
; olic Majesty, during the late War between Spain
and France, that they are ready to receive (at their
Office, between the hours of ten and one o'clock,
daily) all complaints and applications, authorized
by the said Article, during Eighteen Months
Irom the day of the'datc hereof, and that they have
power to examine all such persons as tome before
them, on oath or affirmation, touching the com
plaints in question, and also to receive in evidence,
all written teOimony, authenticated in such man
ner as they shall thi»k proper to require or admit.
By Order of the Commifjioners,
PETER LOHRA,
. • Secretary.
C mmiffioners Office, AO. 109, Mulberry
reel, Philadelphia, May 17th, 1797.
20—§ 4 w
To be Sold,
4 large and convenient
Three Story Brick House;
SITU >TE at the nortfo-eaft corner of Arch and
Fourth-streets. It contains eighteen room* —
and is in every re£pe& well finifhtd. For particu
lars enquire of
M. Kcppele,
No. 138, Chefnut-ftreet.
May 31, J
For Sale,
By Samuel Erect, jun, at his Compting-houfe, N»,
89, SouthThird-ftreet,
A quantity of the bejl
BoCon mess Bets in whole aid half barrels.
fit forf fliip's use
Do. Pork do.
A quanlityof Sherry Wice
A few Pipes Oil Proof Brandy, jnft landed
from Bordeaux
Chocoktcin tox-.s •
Rice, Cotton, and
Eour or five Bales large Onnjje Poll, Ac.
May s 7. co6t
THURSDAY EVENING, JVb'E 3, 1797.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS., GROOM BRIDGE with much pleaf
ureafld refpeifl, returns her fmcere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
(he ha» received during four years residence in
Philadelphia; and a ffu res her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, (he has made a superior arrangemont for
the more eonvenjent accommodation of her
scholars.—Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groombridge and matters excelling in their
refpeflive profeffions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797. fimftf
The situation is perfeflly healthy ; and made
more agreeable by an cxtenfive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the house.
HoUfhold Furniture.
NOW felling by private iale, No. 17 Dock
ftreet—confiftiiigei chairs, tables, looking
glalTes, bureaus, hand and fire irons, bedftcads,
feather-beds carpets, bedding, window curtains,
bed and table linen, kitchen furniture, &c. The
whole in good order, and has only been a few
months in use.
The sale to continue daily 'till the whole is fold.
June a §
A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRST & 2d proof,
Gin, of 4th prpof, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds
Old Hock, in cases of 40 dozen each
Glass Tumblers, in pints and half-pints
Window Glass, in boxes, of different lizes
Ilazlenuts, in forks
Whiting
Copperas ( . ~ ,
White Lead ( ,n hlldß
& Spanifl) Brown J
For Sale by
PETE-R BLIGHT.
Tknnary 4 ■
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
At the Merchants' Coffee henfe, in Philadelphia,
on the 15th day of June, at 8 o'clock in the
evening, if not before disposed of at private
falc,
40,931 1-2 acres of land, on the
waters of Wheeling and Fifliing creeks, in Wash
ington county, Pennsylvania. The foil is remark
ably fewjle; and besides a large body of meadow,
there are considerable improvements on the pre
mifes. These lands were patented in 1787. On
payment of part of thepurchafe money, a reason.
abl« credit will be given for the residue. Enquir
of the printer. e
May 1S- §tS
Poft-Office, 23d May, 1797.
THE Mail for Baltimore will be closed at this of.
sice every morning (Sundays excepted at half pad 7
o'clock.
The Mail for Boston will be elofed every day
(Sundays excepted) at 12 o'clock noon ; and
The Mail for Frederica, Milford, Clowes, Dagffco
rough, Delaware, Horntown, Accomack Couit-Houfe
and Northampton Court-Houie, Virginia, will be
closed every Monday morning at half pail 7 o'clock.
May 23. * l2t
Pennsylvania Population Com
pany.
NOTICE is hereby given to the Sharehold
ers, that a further assessment of fifteen
dollars is levied on each (hare, payable, in the
following instalments—viz,
One quarter immediately.
One quarter on the lit of Jtine.
One quarter ou the ill September.
One quarter on the ift Dec. next.
Which they are requested to pay to the Trea
surer of the Company at the Company's Office,
No. 53 north Fourth street, agreeably to the
times above mentioned ; and they are further
informed that en their negledling to pay the,
fame as above direfied, the several forfeitures
dire&ed by the Constitution, willl be exacted."
By order of the Board,
SOL. MARACHE,
Treasurer,
May 15 J'lm
St. Andrew's Society. 1
AT a quarterly meeting of the St. Andrew's ,
Society, held at the Golden Swan* last evening,
the following gentleuien were unanimously elefted
members thereof:
Lord Henry Stewarl, -J
7he Honorable Thomas M'Donald, <
Mr. William Alexander,
Capt. Duncan Rose, \
Mr. "James Thorbur, 1
Mr. James Stuart, jun.
Mr. William Gardner,
Mr. Samuel Campbell, of N. T. t
The treasurer, Mr. Shields, presented to the j
meeting the flatement of the fuHds of the focicty ;
whereupon, it was
Resolved, that he be requested to continue his ?
strenuous exertions to tolled in the arrears due to J
the poor fund, and to make report of his success
thereiu at the next quarterly meeting.
Richard Lake, Secretary. (
June I. 3p t
Rofs & Simfon, r
Have,for Sale, v
A QUANTITY OF PRIM£ C
St. Domingo Cotton, e
Superior Old Lisbon Wine in Pipes £
Excellent India Market
Teneriffe Wine, t 'i
In Madeira Calks a
A few Quarter Chefti best b
Fresh Hyson and ) _ r , „ *
Hyson Skin 5 1 „
Muscovado Sugars m Hogsheads, and tl
Coffee in Tierces b
March 7. || tf ci
Just Received,
From Batavia (via Providence)
170 Gacksof Java Coffee of firft quality
400 half sacks do, do. P
a few Boxw of Spices, confiiling of
Nutmegs, Cloves and Mace
For fak by
IVILLINCSI3 FRANCIS, ft
Pcnrwftrert. 2
nay 30 dtf
Grattan and Comp,
. o Hfpeflfully inform their friends, that they have
f. imported from London per the lhip btar, a
iartje affortmeiat of
it" PERFUMERY,
n Which ispow opened for fule at their House, N».
It 191 Marker-'',. et.
, r Also, a new alfortiuent of ready-made gentle
men's linen, shirts from 1 dollars aach to 8 dollars,
r &c. &c. Sc. -
Ladies and gentlemen are accommodated with
board and lodging at ten Dollars each.
T.iofe Gentlemen who have their own private
ir lodgings, may be accommodated with dinner only,
by the week or month.
June J
i e Eifkine's View of the War.
>t —.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBIiRT -CAMt'BFLL & Co.
No 40 South Second street,
[Price 31 CentsJ
j, A View of the Causes and Consequen
ces of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskink.
May 15 , £
'• The fubferibers, have for sale, the
following Goods, viz :
OLD Madeira Wine, in pipes.
Port do. in pipes, hogftieads & qr. casks.
Malaga do. in hogsheads and qr. calks.
Sherry do. in quarter casks.
Claret ilo. of excellent quality,, in bottles.
Rufiia Ducjt.
Do. Diaper and Huckaback.
Coarse Toweling.
Ifing Glass, firft fort.
Russia white Soap, cut in fmallbars.
Mould Candles, in boxes of 6olb weight.
London Porter, in bottles.
100 barrets of good beef.
A wrought-iron Book Cafe.
PHILIPS, CRAMOND & Co.
Philadelphia, ad June, 1797. ; d.
Just Arrived,
In the schooner Dove, Captain Paul, from St
e ' Thomas, and for sale by the fubferiber.
e Muscovado Sugar in hhds* tierces and barrels.
St. Croix Rum in hhds.
And Laguira hides.
ALSO ON HAND,
■ Imperial, Hyson, and Sherry and Malaga
Hyson Skin Teas. Wines.
■ Yellow Nankeens. Holland Gin in pipes.
Canton Clith. Do. Cheese,
1 Lutestrings. Do. Glass ware.
■ Silk Hankerchiefs. China Ware.
. Sewing Silk. Window Blinds.
Cotton in bales. Rheubarb.
. Peruvian Bark. Quicksilver, &c.
JOSEPH SIMS.
May aid. d)4t.
For Sale,
ON board the ship Molly, John Frost, master
from Liverpool, laying at Walnut-flreet wharf 1
6000 bulhels of fine ftoved Salt,
And QUEEN'S WARE, well affmed,
By PHILIP NICKLIN fcf Co.
WHO HAVE IN STORB, ALSO FOR SALE,
100 Boxes WhlteHavaona Sugars
Imperial and )
Hyfpn $ T $
17 tubs Quicksilver
achefts Bandanno Handkerchiefs
A few chests Manchefler Goods well alTorted
in corduroys, thicksets, ginghams, muiliuets,
dimities, &c. a Trunks black sewing {ilk,
180 Crates queens ware, well assorted,
10 Tons sheet lead,
Nails assorted, flat and sharp points,
London particular and ) Madeira Wine in ,
India market ) pipes and hhds.
' 30 pipes, 10 hhds. Teneriffe Wine,
to pipes choice Port ditto, 1
3 j casks yellow paint, i
7 boxes 12 bundles writing slates,
1 box ink-stands & note prefies, i
Sail canvas assorted No. 1 a 8. i
May 4. dtf '
THE FOLLOWING VALUABLE '
Tradts of Land,
IN the couHtv of Glynn and state of Georgia,
will be fold by public sale, at eight o'clock
on the evening of Tuesday the 17th day of June
next, at the Merchants Coffee-Houfe in this ci
ty, unless previously disposed nf by private sale.
ift. 7000 acres on St. Simo&s Sound at the
confluenceof Frederica and Turtle rivers, ad- f!
joining the commons ps the town ofßrunfwick,
originally granted to John Howell, and withia -
6 iriles of the Atlantic orean.
ad. a 5,000 acres on the head waters of a
branch of the great Sattilla, originally granted
to Ferdinand O'Neal. V
3d. 50,000 acres on the waters of the little
Satilla river, and of Buffaloe End Alexanders
Creeks ; the great Satilla road passes through
these lands, which were originally granted to It
Ferdinand O'Neal.
| 4th. j O,OOO acres on the great Satilla river, -
which are also interfered by a branch oi| the
little Satilla, and were originally granted t«
Thomas Spalding.
It appears by authentic certificates from C
Thomas Davis, surveyor, and from Major k -
Hopkins now residing in Philadelphia, that the
body of these lands are not thirty miles from tc
the ocean, and principally within tide water;
that the Alatamaha is navigable for boats and '. n
rafts two hundred miles obove, and for large fr
vessels within .ten miles of them ; that they are
chiefly firft rate pine lands, producing timber
equal in quality to any in the state of Georgia, j"
pofl'effing the fame advantages of navigation. * n
The abovementiuned certificates, together with ro
the patents, drafts, and other papers refpeiling ot
the title, which is complete and unincumbered,
are in the poffelfion of Uie fubferibers and may C ' l
be seen by applying to Benjamin R. Morgjn, at ov
No.j, South 4th Street. The terms ct pay
ment will be one third cash, the remaining two an
thirds in good negotiable eodon'd notes, pava- >' a
ble ih three and fix months after the file J a
conveyance to be made Jo each purchaser on the ®
payment of that moiety of the notes received
from him which becomes firft due. cu
THOMAS FITiSTMONi,
JEREMIAH PARKER,
BENJAMIN R. MORGAN.
Philadelphia, May 31, 1797. eodtf
Dutch Gunpowder.
A quantity of the best Dutch Gunpowder for be
ftle by Sanftir! Erce*-., jun. N». foath Third- w
street th
f,.ays7. Nit
I The Subscriber*
ve I Determined to rct.re from bafinefi, invites ill
, a I who have any note, bill, bond or acceptance
lot hi,, n 0 «- due, to call for payment ; and tb4e
I who wish to anticrpate may receive the money
.V at a teafonable difcoutit.
JAMES SWAN,
le- I May 21. daw.
", I Dorcheft. r . ncarßofloa, 16th May fygj.
Ith Richard Bayley & Co.
j te Late John Whitesides & Co.
' I No. 136 Market-Jlrtcty
I TJTAVE received per the £hips William Penn an/i
j tar f*" 011 * 1-ondoß, a large and falhionaile af
| fortmeut of x the following articles : viz.
I Chintzes, and printed Cottons, of the newejfc
patterns
I furniture Dimities and Chijstzes
j Ginghams, plain and figured,
Muffins, printed and embroider'd
I Do. tamhour'd, plain, check and ftrip'd
j Oo tamboured, of a very superior quality
f. Fine Bqok, Jaconet and Decca Handkerchiefs
I Dimities and muflinets
Daniafk table-linen* in setts and in the piece
- I Diaper ditto in Cloths and in ditto
g I Holland and Ruflia Sheetings
J Loop'd Hollands and Irish Linens
j Long Lawns and Cambrics
Sartins and Silks, plain and figured
s# Ribbons and Gloves
Crapes and Gauze's
j Straw, Chip, and Paper Hats and Bonnets, new
lhapes
j Fancy trimmings, &c.
j With a variety of jtfticles in thc.Lincn-Drapery
and Haberdaihery line.
May 12 §i ot
NOW LAND IN G,
From on board of the (hip GEORGE BAR
CLAY, Capt. Charles M'Alester, seem
Calcutta, the following GOODS, viz.
Colfas i'unjum Cloths
Hummums Gurrahs
Guzecnahs India Calicoes
Emertics Cotton Checks
I Mamoodits Mulmuls
Sahans Kcu and Blue Fernsgcu
hkfs
Tickeries Patna do.
Jollas S antipole do.
Cjrridarrics Plain, striped and flower
ed fine muslins
a Maragunges Ginghams
Baftas, various forts Taffeties
. I Sattin Romals Bandanno red hk^
also,
300 Calks Sugar
40 Boxes do.
16s Bags do.
70,000 lb. weight heavy black Pepper
40,000 lb. weight Ginger
JO Tons Hemp in Bales
9 Pipes East-India Spirits
- For sale by PHILIPS, CRAMOND to" Co.
May 4. dtf
r I
f
, Venereal Complaints,
I PUNCTUALLY attended to in every stage of
I that disease, without the use of mercury or
I restraint of diet, in any cafe recent and simple. on
application at ,No. IJ 3 , Chefnut-ftreet, opposite
I the United States bank, or at No. 170, South Wa
ter.flraet, between Spruce and Pine-ftaeets, where
he happened an office for the better accommoda,-
I t»on of his patients.
I 1 Ut i " Lues , r Venerea confirmed, Morgan
pledges himfelf, that nofyftem of cure (Wever
' ec ' ous ) can be effectual without mercury, and
1 that all the known rules of pratSHce for theie two
I centuries past, and united experience affirms, that
any fubftitHU for it i# but nugatory, and any mode
of practice to the contrary mull be futile and de-
I ceptious.
I Neveithelefs, he undertakes, however compli-
I catej the cafe, to effed a cure without inconve
ni.Hce or injury to the patient's constitution, and
in time not generally experienced or expelled.
N B. Regular attendance at the office in Water
[ jlreet, from the hour of nine o'clock in the morn
ing until one, and from three o'clock in the even
ing until seven; but any o'hertimeat his dwelling
house, in Chefnut-ftreet. 0
Ma y l - dtf
Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co.
T\'o. 8 Chcfnut-Street,
Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS »eatly assorted, very low on
Ihort credit.
March 6. g
JLzekiel Hall
" A r S "moved his Compting Room to Tones'!
Wharf, where he has for sale
24 hogsheads Cod Fish.
A Jtore to let,
In Water-street, between Market and Arch-streets
Mj >y *9- 6? '
TO BE SOLD,
A valuable three story Brick House ;
SITUATE in Lodge alley, uext to the bank o"
Pennlylvania, the lot on which it itan.Js,
gether with the vacant lot adjoining, which ex
tends to Goforth-ftrcer. The houieis about to
feet in front en Lodge alley, and about 4 4 feet
in depth, the adjoining lot is about 96 feet '
front on Lodge alley, and 41 feet on Goforth.
ltreet, being a street which leads from Chefnut
ftreet and Carter's alley into Dock-flrett at the
horse market. The house con Wis of ten lodg
ing rooms, with fix fire places, two dining
rooms, one of them forty feet ill length, the
other a.iout thirty-four feet, each containing
two fire plains, two parlours and a laige kit
chen, with eMenfive cellars under, and gttritt
over the whole, a privilege rf a vacant lot
of ground to the eastward between this houle
and the bank, 1 pump of excellent water in the
yard, a liandfome piazza fronting the vacant
lot, and a frsme flr.blr and dwelling house on
Gclorth-ftreet. The prcmiles now rent for
per annum. To be lold clear of al! in
cumbrances.
For tyrms apply to John Chmtni Stock,r.
Apnlto
A Compting. House to let.
THE Compiirg Horife formerly oenmiej hi
kt. John F. Caldwell, Y . j ; l
beyaeiint on tfrJ-jne-.rd sot hire to af;y p.rf on
who may apply/or laa«. Fa.- irrmi c::cu>t o r
the printer hcrccf. ' 4
/
[VOLVXB XI.v ~ ■■ - |
. onl
" ' the
PHILADELPHIA, ■ tht
7HVSSDAr EPf.NIXG, JUNE 8, \nJ.
*." I'l ' ' 1 tie
■tor tbe Gazette of the United States. \ did
t.'.r-Tcnno, att
m<
The apologifU for the unprovoVtd a?grcf be
lians of tht I'rtnch government, both in au\ t el
cut of Congrtfs, Tuve'rcpellcd the chugs of m(
krencbinfiuence in this coumry, by loudly cal- an
ling for proofi. Jf th* cxiltence of the farts _
was tohe tilted by tht kind of evidence r. quired '
ir. otircoaits of law, it might be difficult to sub- o 1
ftaatiate th<; chargt ; but ?• the worhl has not
yet bteonic so incredulous 19 to rcjciS prelump- mi
tive evidence however ftrongj I trult it wn! be tr j
tafy to lhcw, tnat these rao:!elt apotogille, have t£
for o?ce reckoned without their holt. w
To tfftrt my purpose, it is effent\al'in the fir 11 '
place, tbat the numeroui ad\s of injulticeon the
part of Frane* towards .this country, should be te
faithfully and impartially brought into view— :n
they ire as follow. to
She has endeavored hy appealing to our pal- f 0
Sons to obtain our afliltance in pronioting litr
plans of aggramlifement —she lias armed our
v itizens againlt nations .with whom we were at
peace —she has ere<fte_d tribunals within aur ter
ritory to decide on caufcj only cogi.iffble by
our courts —she hasVepeatedly violated oor neu
trality-she has refufed to pay for supplies fur- £
nifhed by our merchants in pursuance oi solemn
contrails made with her agents—she has con
verted her Weft-India islands into ifylums for
pirates, more to be dreaded thin the Barbary q
rovers —she has endangered the very exiftenc* j
of the fouihem states, by arming the slaves in
those islands against their mailers—she has let
loose tjiofe slaves now become robbers, on cur v <
heipleft commerce—she has attempted to influ- f,
ence our eleflions andfeparate the people from uj
their government—she has by her miniflers in-
fjlted and calumniated the constituted author.-
ties of the United States-she hi» permitted the »
Ihips or vcfleU belonging to certain charaAers tt
N»1io prefer her interest to the iatereft of their oi
own country, to pafi unmolested—whilst the t(
property of persons of a contrary description has a j
been captured and condemned without the for- a)
malitv «f a trill—she has impiil'onod our. sea- ,
men, and fubje£ked them to the pains of death
for afls over which they could hive no ceniroul
—she has left no means untried short of force, a
to induce other nations to accede to her fyflem o
ef diflreffing us—she hit evinced her hostile dif- it
•ofltion to this country by reporting to un- t ]
founded and ridiculous complaints—and that
the measure of her ityuftice might be full to ,
the brim, she has difmifTed our wortliy minis
ter with every poflible mark of indigniiy, and
declared that she will receive none until the Uni- c
' ted States have redrefTed their grievanees ! r.
Kr.idrr ! it you are no British Debtor ; if y
you enjoy no pen/ion under the French govern
ment; —if your vefTels fail without certiorates j,
f'i vour fubtniflion to French mandates ;r-ifyou
arc not interefle'd in the immoral contrails for
supplying their islands with provisions an ! re- °
ceiving the stolen property of your injured fel-. h
low citizens in payment if you are .no fugi- c
tive from juftid# *"if you are neither bankrupt p
in fame or id fortune;—if you have never f
cheated your creditors by fraudulent conveyan-
ces j —if you have never willingly overdrawn .
your bankers or correspondents ; —if you have
never embezzled the public mouies ; —but, if 11
on the contrary, ypw are just acd an American
by birth andln feutimeot, telime, if the can- li
li'ufl ef those peifons who are daily palliating, c
liiT juflifjing the long catalogue of insults as r
before reiited, does not produce full eonviihon £
in yourmind; that they afl under FRENCH .
You will fay perhaps that you J'
art Unacquainted with such hecaufe I
you flo not afTociate with the enemies of your t
ecuntry, and that your avocations prevent you 1
from attending to the debates in Congress—is (
so, permit me to call your attention to the sol- ,
lowing extract from a lengthy and turgid libel (
'«n the judiciary of the United States pub'iifhed
tn Mr. Bache's paper of the jth instant, and
signed SAM. I. in which, speaking (
of the French nation he fays—" 1 look <witb a "1
friendly eye on their faults,, but 1 admire their <
beroift/i and military prcvsefs—fiiU if that na- •
tion or any other on earth fball invade the inde- -
pendence und freedom of my country, I shall
view the utte/npt as an independent American
Reader 1 mark well tht candor and patriotism
«f this tmftjlsnt and patriotic American, the un
juHifia'ole and wicked condndl of the French
towards our nation is !>y him foftered down to
mere faults— which faults he regards with a
friendly eye they are direift attacks up»n
our dearefl rights. But left you might under a
wrong inpreflion, be led to suppose, that there
is but one man in the United States, who regards
the wrongs done t» his country with indiffer
ence or nther fatisfa&ion— I recommend to
yourperufal, the fpeethes of those members of
Congress, who in order to facrifice at the shrine
of the Directory, the claims of their plundered
fellow citizens to compensation, attempted to
jet rid of Mr. Kittera's proposition by means
of the previous question.
JUSTICE. '
COMMUNICATION.
)>tr. Fenno,
I confuler myfelf bound in jnftice to Mr.
Smith of South Carolina tocontradift
the falfe ftat.ement, in Bache's paper of ycf
terday, of hi 3 observations concerning the
of Foreign Miniftcrs in Congress.
prefent through the whole of the de
mote and can therefore attest the following to
bf & true account of the matter :
Mr. Dayton, the Speaker, had cenfu
redMr. Harper, (Mr. Smith's colleague)
for making certain observations refpe&ing
Foreign nations in the prejcnce of their Repre
sentatives. Mr. Smith in answer animad
verted on Mr. Dayton for exprefiions which
tended to reftrik the privileges of the mem
bers -He.did not juftify or condemn any thing
his colleague had said, " but wished merely
to vindicate the rights of the house, which
}ie thought attacked by Mr. -Dayton's cen
sure. Mr. Smith faidthat no member Ought
to fed himfelf restrained from express ng his
opinions freely and difclofingfuch sentiments
as he thought pertinent to the debate, on
account t>f the presence of any foreign minis
ter, that while the member was in order,
and so allowed to be by the Chair, the pre
sence of a-foreign minister ought to hav; no
influence -whaUver on him, and that a con
trury idea would be repugnant to the pro
t«£li«n afforded the members by the con'ii
tut-on, v.-hich declared «• that they should
not be <ju<ftio.ncd in an* other pl-.c: for ;.cy
fpcieh or debate io the house." Mr. Smith ( La-.
I avtr did cot employ eoarfe language : lin
ascribed tp him by Bach:'t correspondent; he enc
only said, in polite terms, that, " While cos
the membars were solemnly deliberating on ' her
the great affairs of the nation they should fan
confidcr themfclws as entjiJy among them- to
selves,' and rfot as addressing their obferva • tie
tiojl3 to the bystanders, that the house lot
did -not.ftivite the audience nor foreign mi- he
nifters to hear their debates, and th:' if they wt
attended and heard unpleasant things, the m;
members .were surely not tq blame ;he should an
be sorry for his part that any foreign minis- afl
tera (hould be in that disagreeable predica- ( wt
ment,but it nevertheless ought not to check ty
any member frcvrtS freely delivering those bi
sentiments, which, in his opinion the good m
of his country required." b<
As I was, along with many others near if
me, much pleased with tli»fe manly and pa- pi
triotic sentiments, so proper to be inculca- w
ted at this critical period, and could not fefc w
without disgust, the impertinent reflections pi
of some meddling Foreigner ( the evidentwwrit)
terof the piece in question) I have pleaiurc in
in paying my tribute of gratitude and juflice fa
to an independent member whose exertions w
for the good of his country were sure to be I*
rewarded with the execrations of its Ene- bi
mies. A Fx.it:tin to TuvtH. e(
O]
CONGRESS. «
tc
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. v<
_ Oi
Thußsdjt, May 24. k
le
Conclusion of Air. Gallatin's Speech on a{
the Amendment proposed by Mr. Nicholas. t(
Gentlemen in this discussion have taken a g
very wide scope indeed, and the gentleman t(
from South Carolina in particular, who' is a]
usually very cool, had indulged himfelf in ti
a poetical flight ; he had indeed forgot him- ft
felf and launched into aflertions for which tl
therewas not the lead; foundation—fpeaking
of the conduct of the several French minis- vt
ters, he had described Genet as making an «
appeal to the people, Fauchet as fomenting t<
an infurre&ion, and Adet as insulting the a;
secretary ; the particular point he meant to «
notice was the fomenting an insurrection : b
he was willing to allow that his constituents tl
on that occasion had not behaved well ; but si
it must be in the recolleftion of many gen- a
tlemen in that house, that the common cry a
and charge againft-them at the time was, w
that they were going to join the British, i;
and even the letter of Fauchet himfelf de- ti
. clares it to be the cafe ; it is true he would a
r.ot place much reliance 011 that man -
: who could write on a fubje& pne day and n
■ sign a certificate to the contrary another ; p
1 but he believed he was right in faying it was li
; a poetical flight just made to round a peri- b
od, he had found poetical occupations for t
.. his firft and last personage, and it was ne- d
• ceffary to find some business for this middle h
• person : indeed this was rendered certain, ii
" for he had never heard of but one other au- v
" thority for the flight, for it was never be- ii
! foreafierted but by one Phocion and Wil- a
f liam Wjlcocks. a
1 The gentleman has with the spirit of a j
■ legislator almost as sublime as his poetical j
» chara&er, told us that he should prefer car- *
5 rying the question with only a majority of \
} one or a casting vote, than .not at all ; a ma- s
j jority of what, of the representatives of the
e people ; thus then it appears that this gen- t
r tleman who i* at turns recommending una- t
a nimity, and the union of the people, is in- 1
f different about an equal division ; content j t
• with the unanimity of the government —so i
! the Senate and Executive agree with a majo- 1
rity carried -only by one, the gentleman 1
g cares not-if the remaining half of the rep-. 1
a refentatives, and their constituents differ up-.; 1
r on the question to be dicided—w<* fee then j '
who it is that reaily wishes to divide the go
~ vernmer.t from the people.
~ But he hoped that such adverse opinions
would not prevail in that house, they were
™ baleful to the very happiness of the country
h and the due credit of the government, he
:o hoped that a great majority would be found
a unanimous in refilling the ralhnefs that
ln would drive us to a war ; he hoped that
a there would not be found one man, unless
J,' IT WAS THOSE WHO WERE EAGER AFTER
power or monev, who anticipated in the
to deflations of war, the realization of rich
of es by plunder, either as agents, contractors,
:>e or one or other of'thofe train of wretches,
E< * that hover like vultures in rear of battles—
to then none but such as these would be found
eager to involve us in calamities which were
too grievous to be yet forgotten among us,
and too terrible to be encountered but in the
last extremity.
Whatever may be our determination, he
fr. said rafli or weak men should not divert us
I£l from our sober purposes, in the pursuit of
;f- measures calculated for accommodation and
he peace :—We could not be. too speedy in our
fs. decisions ; the events on the other fide of the
[e- Atlantic, are so rapid, as not to be within
to our reach or control, we do not know the e
vents which have already taken place ; he
[u- would not rely on the generosity of any na
e) tion, in particular circumstances ; and there
ng is 110 knowing the extent to which success
re- might lead men, under a mistaken impreflion
id- of injury ; we ought to lo£e no time ; the
ch haughtinefb of France has overwhelmed
m- nearly all Europe on land.—What she may
ng do next we know not ; whether she is jult
ely orunjuft, we should at least not lose time in
ich negotiation—and we ought the more readily
en- to do this, because there i 6 no man in Ame
rht rica, of what party he may be, who will
Lis not resist, if resistance is required ; there -
nts fore while the conflict is doubtful, we should
on determine our affairs, and as the amend
rtif. ment appears to furnifh the only grounds
ler, upon which negotiation is at all likely tp be
ire- attended with the necessary effedl of feenring
no peace and independence, that ought to be
on- preferred.
iro- The amendment had been opposed on va
i&i- rious other grounds, and among the molt
tild curious was that of the gentlemap from S.
'.oy Carolina ( W. Smith)—he fays, either we
i , Lave or we have not granted a favor to Eug- He
: lind ip the provilion article ; and his infer- gei
; ' ences are, if wc have net, France cannot at
: j complain ; but if we have, finfce (he has £y his
1 her decree of tile 2d r larch tad taken the
1 fame advantages to herfeif, (he has no right vai
- to ooir,plain; thus, according to that gen- lie
• tlemati's logic, we have done France the as
e kindest favors, whether we meant it or not ; th
- he would just obfervc, and the committee
y would not forget it, that this fort of argu- m
e ment did not belong to the fuppoiters of the dc
d amendment, —we fay France lias no right to
f- a flume those immunities, we do not allow it; tl<
i- we fay of the 2(1 article' of our trea- to
k' ty with France (he cannot insist on it ; 01
fe ; but fuppefing we (hould agree in the gentle
d man's style, and fay either we are resolved to t'
be attached to Great-Britain or we are not, 01
ar if we were such arguments might be very tl
a- properly used to cement that union, but if (h
a- we are not, in the name of common sens hi
efc why objeft to the amendment. We who oi
11s propose the amendment fay the British trea- W
ri- ty exilts, it is the law of the land, and we
rc insist upon keeping it ; we confefs we have h:
ce said it was a bad one, and so we fay (till, but rt
ns we will not therefore go beyond it with you 1 n
be France, we (hall agree to make you equal, ; w
1e- but no more. The gentleman appeared to jo
coincide in one particular, that was in their tl
opinion of the British treaty ; they felt so ti
sensibly aliv>_ to it that they dreaded even to o
touch it, and yet they infilled that it was uni- e
S. verfally popular, and that Its popularity en- tl
creased in proportion as it became more 11
known ;he would leave gentlemen unmo- a
lefted in the solacing indulgence of that idea I
ort as long as they could persuade themselves in- v
to. such a phantasy ; but he would just fsg
a geft to gentlemen, that there did not appear t
an to him a likelihoed of its gaining a consider- t:
is abla (hare of popularity on the western fron
in tier when the memorial of the Spani(h mini- t
ti- Iter (hall have found its way into that part of n
ch the United States. 1
ig It has been several times asserted, that all r
if- we can fay or do on the afTr irs with Franee t
an will be now perfectly useless, for (lie is de- t
ig termined to go to war with us at all events, 1
he and various reasons are assigned for this, a- y
to mong others that (lie is resolved to make us 1
- break the British treaty, and to overturn c
its the British. trade ; —gentlemen might have t
ut fufficient authority for these reasonings q
n- and they might not ; —indeed he would not f ;
ry argue it with thert on this occasion j he c
is, would suppose it possible that France would t
fh, facrifice her interests with us to injure that
le- trade which is the vital support of Britain, c
ild and commence a war with us on that account u
an —but if such is really the .opinion of gentle- t
nd men, ought it not to"" be the firft and most t
r ; pressing motive with us to adopt measures (
'as likely to extricate us from such difficulties j 1
ri- but do gentlemen believe the faft ? Do
for -they, who give the Preiident even more ere- j ■
le- dit than he asks on so many occasions, doubt | «
lie him on this—or have they better means of , (
in, information on this fubjeft—if they nave, t
tu- why has he not been made acquainted with '<
3e- it ? But he still thinks we may negociate, t
r il- and consequently eiitertains no immediate i
apprehension of a war ; this sentiment is ex- j 1
" a pressed in his speech, and it even makes a j 1
cal part of the report, and consequently those | '
ar- who support that part of the answer, cannot j i
of with propriety oppose the fame thing in the j '
na- amendment.
:he It is also charged against the amendment , 1
en- that it Concedes every thing and a Herts no- ' 1
na- thing ; now the impression which the amend- i
in- ' ment made on him was, that if any thing, it j
ent j took higher ground ; we all agree as to an
-so ; insult being given in the dismissal of our mi
ijo- : nifter, and in the amendment, while we leave
nan : open the ground for negociation proposed
ep-1 by the President, we declare that a repeti
up-.j tion of insult will put an end to every friend
hen I ly relation—and after all, this firm language •
go- is said to be degrading.
Mr. W. Smith begged leave to offer a j
ons (hort reply, he had been accused of indulg- j
rere ing a poetical flight, but the gentleman who |
itry accused him appeared himfelf in that parti, i
he cular to have been indulging a poetic li- j
und cense j he had talked of concession as if j
that France had not spoliated ; v> T e are not about
that to conclude a treaty of concession, but to i
ess enter 011 negotiation for a treaty of ftipula- ,
ter tions for equivalents ; if we are to ufurpthe .
the treatymaking power in this house, he hoped '
ich- would not forget to do something for A
:ors, merica— as to the poetical flight, he appeal
hes, ed to the recclleftion of gentlemen who-had
:s— read Fauchet's letter wherein he pathetical- .
>und ly deplores the failure of the Weltern'infur- ,
vere reftion by a too early explosion. The gen- ,
us, tleman fays he is not disposed to make any
ithe concession, but is it not evident that force s
exists ; does this not invitelloftility, if we
, he fay we must concede : do we not admit by ;
t us this what France seeks, and if (lie' obtains S
t of one article of the Briti(h treaty by threats, 1
and may we ndt expeft to hear her demand all j
1 our the other articles by fmiilar means—and !
f the the repeal of the law of 1794, and all her
ithin other insulting demands. The gentleman
tie e- had made another extraordinary discovery, j
; he that the Preiident seeks our advice, he deni- J
y na- ed it ; he gives us a narrative of the state of
here the Union, and he tells us he means to pur- ,
:cels sue negotiation, he calls you to defend your (
ffion country against external attacks, and to be ;
the prepared to repel them ; but here we work
Imed whole days in discussing business that does '
may not belong to us ; and perhaps in this great
juit revolutionary change cf constitution while
ne in we are thus employed the Senate may be
adily doing our duty and debating the means of
V.me- defence.
• will -j
here- Conclusion of the Debate on Mr, Km era's
lould Amendment
lend- Friday,-June 2.
mnds [Mr. Harper was not surprised that the
to be gentleman last up (hould have so far -wander
nring ed from the fubjeft; nobody who knew him
to be would be surprised. From what he had said,
he (liould have thought the motion before
n va- the house had been a call upon the secretary
most of state for papers. The rcafon why the
>m S. papers the gentleman mentioned were not be
:r we fore them was, they had not been allied for.
Ke looked vvitWanM-spt upon whattV- !i
gentle man had said about thJ practice ot j
country courts ; he thought it indicative ot .1
his want of sense va&Tiod mimers. t
Mr. IvUtiedge wiflied to ma't: an Odfer- t
vation, which though not ftriftly la older, h
lie triifted he (houldbe permitted to make, t
as it was in reference to what had (alien from
the gentleman last up.
The Sptakt.r said he could not be pw- y
mitted to pivceed with remarks, not in or-, a
der. - ' f
Mr. W. Smith supposed that -as the gen- ji
tleman Irom Maryland-had bfeen permitted e
to make his observations, a reply to them .a
ought to be allowed. ■ *" S
The Speaker said the remark of th: gen- J
tleman from S. Carolina was equally out of r
order. (He read the rule. ) The gentle- 1
tleman having set out with faying what he t
(hould offer Would not be in order, it was 'I
his duty to flop him. He (hould ash leave t
of the house for hrm to proceed. Leave
was a(ked and given.
Mr. "Rutledge observed, the gentleman r
had frequently called for documents with 1
refpeft to spoliations. The gentleman could 1
I not have Yead the documents on the table, 1
! without feeing major Mountflorence's papers !
jon that subject, which not only confirmed (
the taking of vessels, but also the refufc.ta- 1
tion of an* old law requiring the proteft'.on
of seamen to be countersigned by tfye offic- 1
erSjof government. —He (hould vote against 1
the previous question ; but he was for leflcn
ing the evil a» much as he could, which was t
a common course taken in passing of bills. 1
If the amendment was adopted, he (hould '
vote for the whole.
Mr. S. Smith answered that he had no- j
ticed the documents which had been men- '
tioned, when he was up the other day.
Mr. Craik thought there was no neceffi- 1
ty for farther proof of the spoliations com- '
mitted upon our commerce by the French
than they had before them. He thought it
right that the stipulation in favor of our ci- 1
tizens (hould be added, and that the attempt ]
to get rid of it by the previous question was
unfair, as a refufal to consider the subject
would amount to a juftification of the spo
liations, and to a denial to the right of our
citizeni to fatisfa£lion. He denied that
there was any danger of a war in conse
quence of the French refuflng to make the
fatisfaftiori here mentioned ; nor -could he
corfceive gentlemen need to be alarmed for
the loss of the amendment proposed.
Mv. Nicholas said, it was his wi(h to
offer France the concession already agreed
upon, for the fake of peace, and at the fame
time to convince them that they had nothing
to expeft from any party in this country
(which it appears they had been led to..be
lieve) in support of any unjultifiable -claim.
The amendment which had Seen agreed to,
. ! he thought well calculated to produce this
as it declared what these Frenchmen'
7 , (as they had been stigmatized) were willing
to do ; but now gentlemen came forward
and wi(hed to tack another proposition to.
this, viz. that compensation (hall be made
. for spoliations committed upon our citizens.
. . It was not doubted that this was a proper
1 i fubjeft of negotiation ; but when they saw
; j the zeal which was (hewn by the executive
: ; in favor of our own claims, they did not
; i suppose these would be forgotten ; but they
i did think it possible frotn the complexion of
t ; the speech of the President, and the report
. | ed answer to it, that it was possible the con
. cessions which they had introduced might
t ' not be attended to. They wiflied, there
-1 fore, as they believed the. peace of the coun
. try depended upon it, to express their wilh
e es on that subject ; but if the fubjeft of fpo
i liations was introduced in the way proposed,
. it would be to fay, "we will have fatisfac
_ tion for spoliations, or we will not treat 5"
e i for said he, it is either a fine qua non, or it is
j not ; if it were, he apprehended war would
a j be the consequence ; if it were not, it could
•_ : not be ps any use, but would destroy the
0 claims of the merchants. He denied that
i. ! gentlemen averse to this proposition were a
j verse to obtaining redress for the merchants ;
;f ■ their objeft was peace, and they did "not
lt ' wi(h to clog the negotiation with any thing
0 j which might prevent a continuance of bleff
j. - ings to our country.—Mr. N. defended him
ie felf and those who voted with him from the
j i charge of btmg friends of France. He be-
L _ : lieved they could challenge gentlemen on
j. the other fide to. (hew that they had more
d reason to be attached to this country than
1_ , they, he thought their 'fortunes were as fa
r_ Lie and their domeflic comforts as great as were
thofe of other gentlemen,
y ! . Mr. N. was proceeding on this fubjeft,
e but was called to order.]
re, ■ rThepart included iv bracket> Jhcvld have followed
, y 1 ately after the ohfervatumi of hir. Smith, nj Uirylir.d,'
t in ycjlcrduy's paper ]
s j Mr. Dana said he was perfeftly fatisfi
j ed with the vote whicK" he had given on the
1( j ; proposition for placing France on the fame
cr footing with other nations ; he notwith
ln ! Handing acknowledged the obligation he
j was under to those gentlemen who seemed
j to express solicitude at the dilemma in which
0 f they supposed those who voted for that
r _ question were now placed, However the
ur ' solicitude of gentlemen on this account was
be ' misapplied as to himfelf, as he did not wi(h
r k 'to evade a vote upon the main question. He
, es j (hould therefore vote against the previous
rt ' question.
ile j It had been said that if the proposition
be now proposed to be introduced was carried,
of it would be either pledging the house to go
'to war, or amount to a relinquilhment of the
claims of our merchants. If he thought
t's it would pledge them to go to war, if net
acceded to, he (hould be against it. The
question having been brought up, if 110 de
he cifion had upon it, it might be fuppof
er- edthat the house did not consider that any
im injury bad been done to o» neutral rights,
id, t In cafe we were disposed to go to war, —if
ire I this hope was not complied with, wc (licnild
iry ! go on to state, wcihould proceed to aft ac
he j cordingly against France. To suppose the
be- [ expressing of the hope in the way proposed
or. ■ would be cifenfive to Fratrc?, was pevf-.ftly
htiniiiiitiiif*. France, said lie, hai violat- d
our neutral rights, and lie hoped flte would
at lead pay our merchants tli»" amount of
their lolfcs ; and he woutd have exprefFed
this hope, if the former amendment had not
been agreed to ; it was faying no more than
that he hoped the Flench vrould be Lore/}.
Mr., W.. SmiYH thought it his -duty, a#
representing a largr commerdal'tetty,- to cx
;>rcf? his featimrnts on thfs ocgalfett. He
denied ttyat the conftru<P.ioii "Oflfc upon- the
prepokd amendment by rvfivGiMwie was a
just one ; it meant no more', be to
exprcfs'.a 4»opc that the French *.v<m:!d have
a difpofitiqh to "itiafcc the injuries done to
our neutral rights a filbjeiS of Htgociation.
They had often been told of the juflice and
magnanimity of the French tiatioft (hebe
lieved by thjij;.gentleman) ; and truited
they would not be so unjufi, so atrVcious, as,
•because we exgrefsa hope that they will da
this, to .make, war upon us.
Mr. Gallatis interrupted Mr. S. to
fay that he had never made use Of'ilich senti
ments ; he had never, spoke afThi French
making war upon us. fie r.Sver' said the
exprefling a hope would be an ultimatum.
He made two proportions of the question
(which he explained as before.)- He never
said any thing either about the'jufticc or
magnanimity of the French nation.
Mr. W. Smith said he would not inter
rupt the gentleman, because he expected
he would confirm what he had aflerted.
Mr. -S. said he was firft endeavoring
to (hew how far it would operate with
refpeft to France ; because, Jf that natiou
was so great and jtot as file was teported to
be, thei\t would brtio danger of war on her
part ; and he was going to (hew how far
war was likely to take place on our part.—
In order to support his argument, the gen
tleman must (hew that we pledged ourselves '
to go to war. There was no such thing,
and he denied that any such idea existed.
No .gentleman objected to negociate; nay,
it was known that a nomination had taken'
plaee abdve Hairs of negociators.
They were now, Mr. S. said, doing the
bufmefs of the other departments of govern
ment ; but, as it had been' so determined, /'
they must confiderthemfelvesas in their situ
ation. He therefore supposed that House
as forming a council to the Prcfident. He
supposed that the President might be in the
chair, and they .were -advising him how to
a£t. He alked their opinion'. In the full
place, said he, we anfsver, you must con
cede to France the article refpedting free
(hips, '&c. Other gentlemen fay, that is
not all, you must fpeakof spoliations. They
fit .down, and begin to draw the articles of
inftrudtion for the' negociator,. They firft
mention the concefficm withrefpect to the
Britilh treaty ; but "fay other gentlemen, you
mull add a hope that payment will be made
for spoliations ; but they answer, no ; you
must not aftc France for this, that would be
an ultimatum.—This, said Mr. S. would be
our fituationV' He denied however that such
a proportion was any-more than exprefling
a hope that the spoliations would become a
feature in the negociation.
Gentlemen alked why triumph id their
dilemma. There was no doubt, they were
in one ; they confeffed it. And why ? Be
cause they did not v. i.'h to make this claim.
Why did not they wife it ? It was difficult
to fay ; but they might conjecture, and he
believed it was, that to agree to fuchapro
• position, would be to fay that there had been
injuries done to this country by France.—
■ Do they wifti te hold up an idea that France
■ is jullified in their ipqjiaticr.s ? Do they
• think the conduft of . our Executive
■ has been such as to provoke them ? He
i hoped not ; though the conduit of some
■ gentlemen feemc-d to imply it. It would be
easy to (hew that this was not the cafe ; and
! he had to doubt that when our commifiion
' ers.came to make a candid explanation of
' that conduft to the French'government, there
■ would be a disposition on the part of France
t to make reparation.
But the gentleman from Maryland, said
; there was not many regular captures ; that
t tbe veflels taken were mostly going to rebel
> porie ; if so, they would be the easier com
- penfated.
Gentlemen allowed that the firft part of
: the proposition was what it ought to be ; but
-it -was improper to-fay any thing about fpo
• liations. By this it appeared as if that house
e intented to entrap the Executive.—Gentle
-1 men fay if you demand compensation for
• spoliations, it will involve a war ; yet they
e expeft the Executive to, make a demand on
this head. Did not this hold out an idea
> that the House was for peace, and the Ex
ecutive for war ? He believed, though this
was not expressly said, it had all along been
'■< insinuated. We will usurp the right of
making a peace-proposition ; but we will
" throw the obloquy of the war proposition
c upon the Executive. We will hold out the
e olive branch ; but the Executive (hall bran
r di(h the sword !
e Mr. S. referred to themeafures of fequef-
tration and a prohibition of commercial in
k tercourfe which, were propof«Lwhen Britilh
1 fpoliatione were complained of ; but now 4
e . he said, they were not to express a hope for
ls redress.
h With refpeft so. the fear of >var, Mr. S,
e afl;ed if, France were to fend an ag*:it ta
18 make a rtquifition upen then!, if the fame
arguments as were now u'fed would not ap
n ply ! Suppose, for iiiftarice, they fliould
1, want five millions cT dollare, and if ndt paid
;o within a certain tipt-' war would be made
le upon us. It might be said, why (hall we go
it to war about this ? One campaign would
;t cost more than all this. Would not such
le language as this, encourage them to make
e- a requisition upon us ?If they discovered our
f- utter want of spirit to Tcfcfit wrongs, they
:y might carry on a mockery of a negociation,
s. and in the mean time,let loose their cruifero
■if upon our commerce. In countries where
Id the French have armies, said Mr. S. they
c- can do all this and more. They fay you
be must raise us so many millions of money, and
ed such a quantity of fr.pplies by such a day ;
ly yciir.ruU do'tfcii-, or ;,;kc the cenfequence.If we wers ia th.*:r situation ZvrJjicK tlian!i j
God we are not at present whatever Wc may '
la) v*e cojld not hclp'complying.
Mr. M'Dowhli. spoke ih : favour of the \
preyiou3 cjueltion, aad was replied to by Mr. j
Oti>.
Mr, B*knt decbcfd Lis int«ition "of vo-
in favour of the previous quittibn, tho'
he h?d expreifed hit intention yesterday of
vutfng differently.; but, truce hearing the
acgnpientsof the gentleman from PennfyU <
rania,. and having himfelf seriously consider
ed tqe fabjjeft, lie was determined to vote
cgakft. now putting the main queftioa.
Mr. KITTEt.I faidheliadlctpt his feat with :
difficulty when he heard gentlemen speak of
this as an offenfiv* proposition to France ;
he thought to cberfi a doubt that they would
do justice, would be more likely to insult
thai nation. Many prefefuens he said had
been made with refpeft to wishing the peace
of the country to be preferred.* Immedi
ately reprefentmg people who enjoyed peace
übovp every thing else, it would bt/ difficult
t«KP?ke them believe he was not as sincere
in his profeffions for peace as any man—
He Ueheved his proposition did not tend to
war but to peace. He thought the main
question ought now to be put, as the pro
position, carried without the amendment,
would carry a Itrongttnplication that this go
vernment was about to abandon the claims ef
her citizens. r
Mr. R. Williams should make no apo
logy for troublingthe house as was common,
as he conceived he had a rig'jt to expr'efs his
thoughts on this and every other question
presented to him. It was said that if the ]
present motion was not adopted, it would be
abandoning the rights of our fellow citizens,
this argument he supposed was used to
frighten members into a vote which they did i
"not v/ifii to give. He considered the nation <
as bound to protest its citizens in the legal ]
exercise of their business on the Ocean ; but i
if any other nation injured them, they were j
to look to their own government rr>r redress i
and not to the foreign nation. It was true, ■
the government had a right to look for fa
ti.tfadion for the wrongs. He did not there- i
fore consider this vote as in any degree inju-. ]
ring hi; fellow citizens. They did not at
present know the amount of the spoliations.
It v7ould be an after consideration, if they i
fnould not be paid, whether we will pay ,
them ourselves or go to war. Mr. W. took i
not 'ee of several argnments which had been i
used against putting the previous question ; i
he particularly observed upon the ftngular'tty \
of what fell from Mr. Otis, that he believ- ;
ed the principle wrong, and that such en- ,
croachments upon the Executive would lead i
him to fortify himfelf by corruption or force ; ;
yet he would vote for it.
Mr. Potter hoped the previous questi
on would not prevail. He trusted the Re
presentatives of the American people were
not prepared to give up the claims of their
fellow citizens without even alking for a fa
tisfaftion of them.
The previous queftjon was put in this form
" {hall the main question now be put."—
Nays—-J i—Ayes—^4B.
Wednesday, June 7.
Mr. Otii presented a petition fropi sundry mer
chants of Boftoa and Charltftown trading to Chi
na and Incia, praying for a fufpenfton tor a limit
ed time of certain duties imposed la(t fciion upon
tea and white cotton goods, intended to take pJace
from the firft of July aext, on the ground that it
was the intention of ihe Lcgiflaturc to exempt
frcra the duty the cargoes of all vefTels then on
tlicir voyages, \llsdging that their vessels required
a loiigei time to make their voyages thin vessels
from ionic. other ports of the Union-. Preferred to
a Select Committee of three.meaibcri.
Mr. W. Smith ;n«ved that the House go into a
Committee of the whole on the Bill for prohibit
ing for a limited time, the exportation of arm.
and ammunition ; which it accordingly did, and
after receiving sundry verbal amendments, fugged- I
edbyivlr. Bayard, the committee role and the
house agreed to them. The kill was ordered to
be re-engrofled.
Theh<>ufe then refoJved itfelf into a Committee
ef the whoie on the State of the Union ; when
the third resolution, relating to the purchaJe of
ditional armed vessels, having been cead,
Mr. Sewall fabmitted it to the gentleman who
brought forward thafe resolutions, whether it
would net be bitter to poftporie a determination
upon the third and fourth resolutions, until the
fifth was difpoicd ©f; feeeaufe if it were agreed to,
it might have'an effeA upon the vote of gentle
men upon the ether two, 2« they might be of o
pinion that if the merchant* vessels were armed,
there would be no necemty for a convoy.
Mr. W. Smith had np obje&ion to postpone
the coniideration of the third aMd fourth resoluti
ons for the present, in order to take up the fifth.
Mr. Nicholas supposed this could not be done
except the gentleman chose to withdraw the third
and lourth resolutions.
Mr. W. Smith said it might be done by gene
val coiifent.
Mr. Giles could not confentto depart frorrt the
plan of difcuflion laid down by the g»ntlenian
S-Carolina. his part he ftiould voti a
gaiull the whoie of the resolutions, and trusted a
maturity of the committee would do io : and he
did itot wifo the decision to be delayed He wifh
td the ccuutry at large to know the sense oi the
committee ijpon them as soon aspoiEble.
Mr. Ofis could not fee how it was materrfl to
gentlemen who intended to vote against the Whole
ift what order refolutions were difeuffed; to
thrfc'whd were not decided it might be matirial
jt&Was of opinuTn with hi* colleague that it would
Uc b<ft to tafce them up in the way he proposed, |
au-i he ihougfct it would be unclndid to objeA to
the poftponcment. The Senate had already passed
a law on the 3d and 4th, and thofc might as. well
ie coirfideied in fheir bill.,
Mr. W Smith said he (houlJ adopt a mode,
which wculd net retire the confent«f gentlemen.
He withdicw.for the preknt, the third and fourth
refolut»»n«. *
The sth which was in the following words,
huving "been 1 ad
R.jol'MtL, That provision be made by law, for re-
the arming of che merchart vessels of the
United States-
Mr.JSwANW.cK enquired with what view these
were to be provided ; againll whom th<y
were :obk employed, and in what cases they weie
go defeud !heft\fcives. The rn'ormation which he
might receive on these enquiries, he Uli, would
have considerable weight in iniiueoceing his vote.
Mr. Harps* /aid the detail wouid be brovght
forward in the bill j the principle waV now only
to be determ.ncG. He h-d not thought of ait the
modifications which might ie given to it; the ugh
he had thought of many ; but it would be belt diP
ruffed in tiuf general form. 1 hrgrntteihan if he
'.htlgbt yrorer, might introduce into the refold
tion» ir.ypri ;;inle irb;;h he might with, to Laye
inferred:'. t»
Mr. Williams fau!. it was well known tliat a {
number of cm merchantmen were arming in differ- j
ept ports■<s» he nniezt, a id it waj./thtrefjre, 11c
ccSforf co-'regui ttct!iisbuli'i£f3 to prevent ihifdiief
done.—»Gentlemen might differ in their o- 1
pin o'i wUh rcfpeil so the tnlr'.ne law or laws of 1
nations on thisiubjeA ; but all w*mM vi since j
vsffels >ere arming, that tiwy Ihould be put under 1
fnme retlraint. Whenhevorcd £jt ma.ining the
he did it writh a view oi luv.ng them em
ployed fertile defence of our coults, and not as n !
convoy. Our situation laid was truly critical, j
#ind he was undetermined how far it wouLd be pro- |
per toyfii the mcfchzp.- vessels of the Umtei ,
States'; but to prevent mifehiet, he wi&cd the re- j
solution be agreed to, referviug to lt»u".felf
the right of voting ultimately for or 'ag.iinft ic. *
It might afterwards undergo luch ni<j®ifu»tioi!s as <
should be found ncctffary. > ;
Mr. Livingston said the gentleman from 1
Pennsylvania liad very properly enquired i
what was the scope of the present refolutiQn, 1
and he expected some answer would have <
been given. The gentleman frcm S. Caro- ]
lina had said, they mult vote for the princi- 1
pie, and the detail would come of course. 1
So that without knowing its object, wheth
er it was defenfive or offenfive, they were i
called upon to agree to the principle. This 1
deficiency had been supplied in some degree, 1
by the gentleman from New York. He 1
fays the merchants have undertaken to arm ]
their veflels. He wiflied to know whence 1
he derived his information i The only in- '
formation before them was the President's I
speech, where he fays he has forbidden ■
such armament, except in the East India i
trade. He therefore supposed the fa£t not 1
founded. What, he aiked, was intended
to be done with these armed vessels ? He 1
said they mull argue hypothetically. He
supposed they were intended to protect our 1
trade. He did not believe they were meant '
to operate offtnlively. But he would a(k, 1
if this were the cafe, if it would not lead '
diredtly to war ; since individuals would be '
left to determine the law of nations, and of '
course the peace of the countiy would be '
placed at their disposal, and all precautions, '
on the part of government, tvould be in 1
vain,fince individuals,who might have an op- ]
pofite interest to that of government, ■
might be continually committing atts of '
holtility.
Who, said Mr. L. are our merchants ? 1
Were they all men in whom implicit confi- 1
dence could be placed T~Were they all Amt- 1
ricans ? He believed the generality of them 1
might be welldifpofed towards the intereits j 1
of this country : but if there were one man j 1
of a contrary spirit, the peace of the coun- j (
try would be at his disposal; for what would j 1
avail all the inftru&ious which were gives, if '
one foreigner had the power to commit a£ts 1
of hostility on a power with whom we are '
at peace ; and if government were to difa- ;
vow violations of this fort, yet a repetition 1
of them would certainly involve the country
in a war. And when it was considered what
a number of Englijb and French we had a- :
mongft us, who would wish to fee this coun- 1
try take part in the present war, it would
not be extraordinary, if they should seize
such an opportunity of provoking hostilities
with one or the other, power. For his own
part, be looked upon the meafurfe in so seri
ous a light, that he should not hesitate to
fay, he should prefer a Declaration of IVar,
to such a step, because it would be a derelic
tion of principle, thus to commit into the
hands of they knew not whom, that most
sacred trust, the preservation of the peace
of the country ; whereas, if war were to be
declared, we.should put onrfelves into a state
of defence accordingly. A measure of this
kind taken under the rnalk of peace, would
be plunging a dagger into the vitals of the
country, from which it would be a long
time in recovering. Mr. L. concluded, by
remarking upon the extraordinary manner
in which this business was condufted, and at
tributed the withdrawing of the 3d and 4th
resolutions to a persuasion that they would
have been negatived, if persisted in.
Mr. S. Smith acknowledged that the
present was a very delicate fubjett; but had
not the President forbidden the arming of
merchant vefTels, he should have been of o
pinion that the merchants vessels of a neutral
power had always a right to arm for their
own defence. But he believed it was neces
sary that something should be done. Mer
chants would arm their vessels from the right
given to them by the law of nations, and, if
not restrained, might go on to do a£ts which
could not be juflified. Though he believed
merchants poffefTed the right of arming their
velTels ; yet, rather than do any thing which
would involve the country in war, he believ
ed they would desist from the pra£tice, and
bear the lofTes which they might, for the
want of arms, fuffer. , He moved to flrike
out the word regulating," and to insert
in the place of it " reflricting in certain ca
ses."
Mr. Swan wiCK believed it would be very
difficult to devise any plan by which to reg
ulate a power of this kind, since private in
terest was set to work to evade the law.
There had always been great difficidty to
pfeventprivateersfrom being fitted out in-our
ports, and it was known that many of the
vessels employed against our trade in the W.
Indie 3, notwithstanding the precaution, had
I been fitted out in our ports, and whenever
pcrmiflion was given to merchants to arm
, their vessels, that pcrmiflion would be a cover
• for a variety of abuses. Besides, the arm
' ing of vefTels, Mr. S. said, would be atten
ed with an expense which no regular trade
could support. If it were not for this, na
• tiou&at w? . might carry on trade, as well as
neutral nations. He looked upon the advan
tages which the \Jnited States had derived
, from their trade to be owing to their having
• carried it on without the necessity of arming j
• this provision, therefore, could have no oth
' er effect, than to involve us in war. What,
Jie asked, had been the conduit of other neu-
I tral nations .' He did not believe Denmark,
: Sweden, or Venice had carried guns on
> board their merchant veflels, though they
had had very considerable commerce. He
believed that the only proper protection for
. the trade of a nation wa* the armed fottf 'of
the government, which would always be un-
ier tide regulations. Fct tliefe reafor.s, lft :
hould be o)»pofcd to the present measure.
Mr. Gallatin said, it feemcd as if the
notion of the gentleman from Carolina
■vr.s. fufc-ptibl; cf any fhaps, since the 3-
nendmenf now incorporated into :t, seemed
;■> hvft a different view, from the original;
At p-fent, he would state hi* c'tjeCiionn to '
:h-! principle of the refohtfioa itfelf. The
firft enquiry was, whether the law of n=i- 1
:ions permitted the merchant veiTck of a neu- 1
:ral nation to arm. If they had not a right 1
to permit it, whether they are not bound 1
:o prohibit it. He had examined the law
>f nations on this subjeCt, and,found no such 1
mthority, nor did the practice of modern 1
:imes juflify the praCtice. He took a view 1
>f the different stages of society to shew,
:hat whenever regular governments were
:ftablifli<d, the public defence wa. always 1
placed in them, and it was their duty to pro- j :
:e£t individuals, since they did not give them 1
leave to proteCt themselves.
Mr. G. said he knew of no exception, but •
:n cases of letters of marque and reprisal, and '
ie did not know a single instance within the
aft century, where these had been granted, '
Dut war had been the consequence, so re- 1
pugnant were they to the present state of 1
ociety.—lt was true nations might be ih 1
uth a state, to find it necessary to grant '
uch a power ; as when a nation with which
:t has to do is unable to support the common '
-elations of intercourse. Two inftancesof 1
-his kind presented themselves, viz.—the 1
East-India trade, and the Mediterranean !
-rade. In carrying on our trade with the 1
East-Indies, our vessels were met by those 1
sf a number of uncivilized powers, wpon ;
■vhom no restraint could be had, so that no '
emedy was left to us, but immediate re- i
iftance. - Nearly of the fame nature was the '
ituation of the Barbary powers in the Me- 1
iiterranean ; and although we enter into a 1
:reaty with them, we have not a perfeCt re- '
iance upon their obfervihg their engage- j '
nents, our merchants vessels are, therefore, 1
) emitted to trade to those parts armed- '
tie knew it might be said, that at present, 1
he Weft-Indies were in a similar situation. '
tie believed in some respeCts they were; and '
his could be the only plea for adopting a
neafure like the present. If it were to be J
inderftood that there was to be an end of '
;he negociating with France, or that the '
privilege of arming would not be abandoned, '
t might be proper to authorise the arming l
>f merchants vessels ; but he believed, if it '
vere considered that such a permission would '
je almost certain to involve us in a war, it
would appear to be much more wife to await '
:he event of the negociation with France by :
1 measure of this kind, but he was-afraid of '
involving our country iu a war. '
Mr. G. observed, that when he said it
svasour jiuty to prohibit the fitting out of 1
irmed merchant vessels, he thought we ow- 1
:d it to our own security to do so ; and as
the President had told them that he had !
prohibited the fitting out of any such vessels
until the will of Congress was known upon
the subjeCt, he saw no danger that could
arise from vessels still remaining unarmed.
And if-there were any merchants vessels ar
ming, he believed it would be best for go
vernment to remain silent on the subjeCt ; for
then, if merchants proceeded to aCts of hos
tility, government might disclaim the aft,
and they alone would have to answer for
them. Mr. G. concluded by faying, that
this being a new subjeCt, he (houid be glad
to hear what, could be said in flftor of it, or
of any historical faCt which could throw light
upon it.
Mr. Coit complained of the proposition,
when .firft introduced, and now amended,
being very indefinite. He thought the pro
vision fliould be made, but he wished the ob
je£t to be defined: He could not fay that
he could-fo modify the resolution, that he
could himfelf vote for it ; he had not made
up his mind npon the subjeCt as to what ca
ses restriCtions should be'made ; but, in or
der to take the sense of the committee, he
would move an amendment, in order to
bring the subjeCt before them. It was to
strike out " c#rtain cases," and to insert at
the end of the resolution " bound to the Eajl
Indies and to the Mediterranean."
.Mr. Harper proposed to amend the a
mendmen, by adding the word " Weft,"
after " East," so as to read " East and Weft
Indies."
Mr. W. SjniTH did not think it material
whether Weft-Indies was inserted, or the a
mendment was rejeCted altogether. It was
his wish that the committee should firft have
decided upon the abstraCt principle. Pre
suming it to be the existing law of this coun
try that merchants have a right to arm their
vessels, he wished to know whether it was
their wish to interfere in regulating and re
striCting that right. He believed the modi
fication of the business might very well have
been done in the bill. He would have risen
before to have given his reason for this, had
he not been prevented from doing so by gen
tlemen who had complained that he had not
done it. He was in favor of the amend
ment to the,amendment ; but, if it was not
carried, he would be againlt the amendment.
It would be in vain to take into confedera
tion the East India and Mediterranean trade,
when spoliations were principally committed
in the Weft Indies, when, indeed, the ob
jeCWof the present meeting of Congress, was
principally to take into consideration the
protection of the Weft India and European
trade : he presumed, therefore, if they meant
to do any thing effectual, they ffy>uld take
into Weft India trade.—r-
Gentlemen were very ready, he said, to ob
jeCt to every plan brought forward, but they
themselves proposed nothing. All they (}id
was to hold out alarms of war, though eve
ry one expressed a desire for peace.
The gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr.
Swanwiek) had objeCted to the arming of
merchant vessels, because of the expence.—
He believed the merchants of the United
States in general thought differently, tho'
there might.be some merchants in this city
who would be averse to the measure. As
to the expence, he believed, the expence of
fitting out the vessels, would Le mcfe tKati ■
Caved in the insurance. But there was z fur- 1
ther confederation—bj T 'his means the vcf
fels and fe?,men would be prcferved to the
United States ; wherias, "if -it wereput. a,4
dopted, we not only 'lo£e out - reflets- anil !
men, but they go to fcreng'.hen I
of a nation which may us» them a<rau»it us. J
A.nd unless France knows that this Govern- I
ment will afford proteftico to its vest's, ws :
anight expect that the weald lake aSfctt> >
rage of our rcmiffuefs, by spinning out the" ]
negociation, and plundering our property,..
. Something had been said about the con
2uCt of other neutral nations. He believ
ed they had armed their merchantmen, —
though he did not pledge himfe-lf to prove
it; but if this were not the cafe, they had
fleets to convoy their trade. We, on the
:ontrary, had no fleet, nor did gentlemen
!eem disposed that we should have any,—
mce they have exprelfed faeir willies that
the frigates now building were burnt. He
iflced what was to become of the commerce
jf this country, if we refufed to proteCt it ?
If we were to resort to an embargo, what
.you'd be the consequences ? You would
lot, said he, fuffer your vessels to lay up for
:ver. After a time, they would be sent
jut again. In cafe of an embargo, what,
ie asked, would become of our seamen ?
rhey would vender about the country, dif
:ontented, and peri thing for want. What
would become of our produce ? It would
■ot upon our wharves.
The gentleman from Pennfylva.iia (Mr.
Gallatin) had not said neutral nations had
lot a right to arm their merchant's ycffels,
md he had no doubt, if he could have done
the would. Was it, then, right for us to
It still and fee the property of our mer
:hant» spoliated, Was it not our duty to
sroteCt our commerce, our merchants, our
-evenue ? If we were to fuffer these to be
aid waste, when th«tt state of things arriv
:d which he believed was not for distant, in
vhat a situation should we bt;.! Nay, he
jelieved that the conduct of gentlemen on i
:hat floor would have the effeCt to increase 1
he demands of France upon us, by con- j
rafting her means and our weakness.
The gentleman from Pennsylvania had
uftified our right to arm merchant; vessels
:o the East Indies and the Mediterranean,
)ut had introduced some nice distinCtions to
hew that,the fame reason did not exist for,
trming our Weft India vessels ;.but lie could
ec no reason for it in one cafe, which did
lot also exist in the other. j
But he was furprifedt'nat the gentleman
hould have treated so cavalierly our good I
illy the Dey of Algiers, who had behaved
o very politely and generously to us. • He
:hought much more respeCt was due to the
Dey than to Viftor Hugues, though that
jentleman did not seem to speak of him with
equal respeCt, The Dey of Algiers had
lent 40,000 dollars to our agent for the
purpose of making a treaty with Tunis.—
Victor Hugues, on the contrary, took all
he could get from us.
Unless some means of protecting our
vessels was determined upon, our coasting
trade would be loft, since the Picaroons had
been off the Capes of the Delaware. And
if they were to know, that Congress had
adjourned, without doing any thing for our
protection against them, our coast would
fwarni with them.
But gentlemen were afraid, if our vessels
went to the Weft Indies armed, war would
be the consequence. ■ He did not think so.
He believed France conlidered all that part
of the country as outlawed, and that it had
little connexion with the Government of
the country, Indeed, he knew it as a faft,
that the French Minister had allured our
Government, before he left Philadelphia,
that the spoliations committed in the Weft ■
Indies were unauthorized ; and, therefore,
if no means of defence were taken against j
them, we could have 110 ground upon which
to expeCt redress from France.
But gentlemen said, why take these mea
sures at present, since they may be looked
upon as hostile, while our negociation is
pending ? He believed, that after the pre
sent dispute should be adjusted with France,
ic would be necessary to arm our vessels tra
ding to the Weft Indies, as he believed, for
some years to come, these buccaneers of va
rious colours, would continue to infeft those
seas. And if this were the Cafe, why ought
they not to go into arming our vessels at
present, when they were met fo'r the purpose
of taking effectual measures for the defence
of our country.
Mr. S. Smith conceived that Congress
were called together to adopt such meafurcc
as were best calculated to preserve the peace
of the country, by means of negociation,
and to fix upon fush means of defence as
would not be injurious to the
was his-opinion that the Prefideut was not
authorised by law to prevent the vessels of
merchants being armed ; but the merchants
of the United States would readily submit
to any loss rather 1 than go to war. He knew
that this was the opinion of the Philadel
phia merchants; he had seen many of them.
Nor had he met with one native American
who wished to go into this arming plan ;
it would infringe our neutrality,
and throw us into a war. When he came
here, his mind was scarcely made up on the
subjeCt ; he did not like t* give up his right
to defend his property ; but he had found
this to be the general opinion, and therefore
he brought forward the amendment, which
had been well amended by the gentleman
from Connefticut. The gentleman from
South Carolina had since added Wejl Indies,
and this brought them to issue ; jor it was
•war, ox not -war. ■
("We are obliged, for want of room, to
defer the conclusion of this day's proceed
ings, 'till to-morrow. No vote was taken
on the question] - - ■
Ha Y .
A Qn amity of ercfllent Old and New Hay to
be nad at Peel Hall Farm en the WiCahickon
Road, anout 2 milei from thCity.
*lfn, A QUANTITY OF BUILDING STONE.
June 8 s*t
I Pout of PuiiAD&LfßiAi
AX RIV ID. OASL
Sh'.p Motint VcfntJn, Menibetij Portorico 15-
JirigFly, Hub bar 1, Jetdhiic Sc Mole 14
IMIy, Wroth, Port au Prince l 4
•Commerce, Key I do. 14
Mary,
Kx>oti ii'fs, , . Acquin
ne; C.n lmtri Kavannah, 17
Fffcr. Aifopc, Rice, Mole 17
The FIJ !':ft the Mole uti jcr Convby of all! 8 gun
• f|f by the mailers of the
I C ' l ' t |t Lh \ y c ® c^s 10 convoy thana through the Keys.
foi tS»isfK>rf ; among them were the
GMriof* of Plenty, Churrlide; Sally, Dawfon;
'
ihc Muuilt \ arrived yeftef.lay,confirmo
tfce aiccourltof -lie luddenr trctit of &e Britilhar
j a uncut from Porto Rico, with the lofsof their
heavy artillery, temtf, &c <Bc.
Arrived a: pßlttteore, ihip AbigiU,P€tti»,i4 days
from Havaijinb,
A gentleman who carfi® pafTengef in the Abigail
contrudf&s the information* contained in the letter
•roni Kavannah. t!ie governor evinces no
iMpoficiontofee neutral vcfieUin'that portrefped
cci, and men ions frvsral that katfe been captured
urtder the of the M°r©> and carried back, ai
ter leaving chat port; and in fiances the the Ann
of Nantucket a ship of About 350 tori* from Hon
duras Bay, which had been explored by a SpanifU
lrigate and earned into the Havannah, but was
delivered up to* the captain—for this vcfcl several
French Privateer J we: oil the look-crut, and in
tended taking as soon as (he lelt the port. The
Abigail was hoarded by one of Cbem., lhe captain
of Which said he took her for the Atfn, and wished
to know the time of he? failing, ashc was Waiting
"for her.
Lailson's Circus,
j, South Fifth-Street
The Ptib'lic are re'ucotlully inforiiied that
The Ps 1 at the NEW CIRCUS.
THIS EVENING, June 8,
Will begin by a Giat.d Parade of Equeflrian
Pei formers of both sexes.
A grand display of Horfeaianfhip,
By Meffr*. Lang Icy, Herir?n, C. V*ndrve!cc,
Nicholas Corie, Suily, (the Clown and Lailfor..
Mr. §ully, in the c'iara&er of Clown, will
perform a variety of Comic Feats.
Mr. Lai i.son will perform several cr ious and ef
tonifhing exereifes, which he will not undertake to
enumerate, in order to furprii • the fpeftator; he
aim being to plcafe : —and nothing (hall be neglc&eti
to render thetxcrcifes worthy ihe attention of the
mateuriof this-new-art'
Ihe PcdejlaZ>
By the beautiful Princefs—(which has never b'ecn ex -
ecuted in America)
After which will be printed (for the fecoird time)
t)ie favorite French comic opefa, called
Le Tableau Parlant;
Or, The. Speaking P;Surc.
With elegjntnrw fcerery, executed by Mr. Perouany.
The ewning.Si jrnteruinment will conclude by j
second ruprefciitation of the pantomime, called
Harlequin; Mariner;
Or, THE DISTRESSED TAR.
With alterations, additions, lisw scenery, decora
tions, &c.
WANTED,
ABOUT 2cotons of freight, for afly port
in Spain, or the Mediterranean in a neu
tral bottom. Enquire of JAMES YARD
June 7. ;t
r HE SUBSCRIBER hiving been appointed by
the Envoy Extraordinary and Minitter Pleiu*
poteotiary of hi* Britannic Majesty, General Agent
ioraflifting British creditors, and such particular a
gents as they may tpecially authorise, in profecutiof
their claims bviore the c«mminioner« for carrying in
to effeft tke sixth article of the Treaty cf Amity, Cm
mcrce and Navigation between his Britannic Majtjty :
the United States if America, hereby gives notice that
he has opened his office at his houfc the south ea<fc
corner of Chefnut and fifth Greets, Philadelphia,
where he to receive all claims or inrtruftions
for claims with the vouchers and documents thereof,
for the purpose of bringing forward the fame agree
ably so the rules and orders which the boaia may
tnink proper to prescribe.
And as it will be ior the infereft of all concerned,
that the several claims may be so stated, and fupport
cd, as to prevent the delay which would arifc from
tiic neceflity of obtaining furtiicr information, or ad
ditional materials,fiom persons residing at a di'tance,
the general ag*nt thiiikt it his duty to add, (for the
ducttiori chiefly, of t'nofe, who, not-having employ
ed pariicular agents, rftay leave thq prosecution of
their claims to hii charge and managcnca') that all
| such claims ou«jht in particular to fee forth—
lft. The pioper defCrip-.ion and fit nation of the
! creditor or claimant, end original debtor, refpett
! ively.
id. The date or nature of the original contract or
1 debt.
j 3d. When, in what manner, and to what extent,
the creditor 01 claimant w,s prevented or impeded,
I by ihe provilioH, operation or defeat of law, the
decisions and pradtice of courts, or restraint of exr
cutioa. from recovering payment e*f the debt ia
question.
4'h The loss and damage incufred or sustained,
in confcquence ot fuel impediments, wheihcr the
fame may have arilen from the infolveiiey, change of
fituafion, or death of the debtor, the loss of legal
remedy from lapse of time, or ethercaufes impairiag
the value and fccurityof the debt, which would not
have-so operated if such impediments had notexiftei.
And,s'h The pajticular grounds an d reasons on
which the claimant maintains, in the terms of the
treaty, that ' by the ordinary course of judicial proceed
" ings the creditor cannot now obtain and aQually have
" and receive Jul' aud cdzquste c.mpc*Jatio%" fur the
lofTes and damages so Inflamed.
The general agen> ihinks it his duty further to ftig
geft ihst the f vera! claims ought lo be accompanied,
and (upported by the affidavits of the claimants duly
sworn and regularly atteiied, both as to the exUlence
of the debts claimed, and such other cHcumfhncts
as may be within their own knowledge rftlpe&ively.
And wherever the claimants in Hating the. naiurc o£
their evidence (which inuft in every inftfence be the
best ot which tne cafe is capable) have o< cafion to
• to the (eftimoriy of witcelTes, it will be proper
to appiifeibc fAt ral agertt or the nsmes and places
of refidencc ot iuch witnefTesand thefa&sto be elia
blifhed by their teflimony,
Wm. Moore Smith.
Philadelphia, June 8 h, 1797. dim
This Day is Published, >*
Aud fold by H. & /. Ka mm erf. p., jvn. No.
24, North Third-Jlreet, also, by Mr. Hen
jtr Sweitz£R, No. Bj, Race-ftrert,
(Price tuit a Dollar ne.lly bound)
The Man of real Sensibility j
Or, Tm HISTORY Of SIR G.
L ' Founded on Fail.
•(pi* Tlie elegant Edition of the Elements of 'Moral
ity, in tw<» v iiil illo lrar'd with twenty copj er-
may aKo be bad as anave, prurej full bound
1 anti gilc, two dollars and ftftf ednts
i H <k I. K iunra. have on hand a-quanty of No. l
and 2 Witting Pa'per.
! Juuc 8. <WJP
- >.■ For Sale,
; A G T TV %
the 10th Inft. at tjie Coffee-
House, at 7 (.'elrei, P. M, as she cime Iron) sea;
(hr ii Vnown tobca fall sailer. Arty particular in
foVma.ion ihay be had on application to Capt. B ng»
3 ham on boaid said b*ig, at Mcff. Jefle and Robert
1 \Valn*» Wht. f, to Jonn Piankinhom, or Thomas
Siewait. Inventoiy to be seen and terms of pajr
mentto he known at ths time of sale.
June 8. , * tfThe Commiflioners
I?OR carrying into cffcA the £xth article of the
treaty of amity,cemmcjit a«d navigation, con
cluded between his Britannic majtfty and the U'- itca.
Sfcitcs <;f America, en th£ i«jthday of November,
1?94> having this day copftituted tVe.r Board, —
pursuant and agreeahiy (© the said treaty, do here
by give notice, that they arc ready to proceed to
business accordingly; atfd they desire that all claims
lender the said article (which so far asthe fame de
' Icril.es the cafe# thereby provided for, is hereunto
annexed) may be lodged with their Sec retary with
out delay. ♦
Theviurthcr defitethat all such claims may not
only state in what manner the fevers! cafe* come
within the dcfcription of thc.faid article, but .alio
especially fct forth .he feature of the evidence >y
which claimants refpe&ivcly undertake tolub
ftantiatc the fame.
from the said article,
u Whereas it is alledgcd by divers Britifll mer
.4l chants, and others his majeftj *s fubjeds, that
" debts to a'confid.Table amount, which were bona
" fide contra&ed, befcre the peace, still remain
lt owing to them by Citizens or inhabitants of the
44 United States; and that by the operation of va
•• rioos lawful impediments, since the pence, not
M only the full recovery of the said debts has been
" delayed, but alio the value and security thereof
" have been in fevtrU instances impaired and lefT
" en#d, so that by the ordinary course of judicial
M proceedings, the Eritifh creditors cannot now
" obtain and actually have and receive full and
" adequate compensation for the lofft s and dama
" ges which tuey hive thereby fuf ained: It is a
*• greed that in all such cases where full compenfa
" tiou for such losses and damages cannot for what
u ever rcufon be a&uilly obtained, had and recei
" ved by the said creditors in the ordinary course
" of justice, the United States will make fall and
" complete compensation for the fame to the said
" creditors : but it is diftin&ly underf r ood, that
" this provision is to extend to such losses only as
" have beenoccafioned by the lawful impediments
" aforefaid, arid is not to extend to losses occafion
u ed by such insolvency of the debtors or other
" causes, as would equally have operated to pro
-44 duce such loss, if the said impediments had not
44 existed ; nor to such losses or damages as have
44 been occasioned by the manileft delay, ornegli
-44 gencc, or wilful omission of the claimant."
By order of the Board,
GRIFFITH EVANS,
Secretary.
Philadelphia, Commissioners* Office,
No. 3 south Sixth-street, May 29,
1797. J 6—frxm
William Haydon,
Drawing Majler, from London ;
WHERE he studied several years under one
of the moil eminent masters in that sci
ence. He attends young ladies and gentlemen
at their refpeiiiv-e houses. His terms are fix
dollars per month for attendance three times
per week; likewise all kind of ornamental
painting, fruit, flowers, &c. taught on the above
terms?
A line direfled to W. Haydon, No. 26, Pear
flrect, will b« immediately attended to.
W. H. flatters himfelf his terms will be par
ticularly advantageous, where there arefeveral
pupils in the fame family ; as he makes no al
teration in h:s terms if there'are two or three
to teach in one family.
May 9.
Musical Injlrument Manufactory,
No. 167, Arch-Street.
HARPER, harpsichord, grand, portable grand,
fid'-board, pier table and square piano forte
'SJk.r from London, returns thanks to his friends
and the public, for their liberal, encouragement,
and hopes that by his afliduity and at'ention to ev
e. y branch of his bufmefs, to merit a continuance
of their favors. Piano fsrtes made on the newest
and mod approved plans, with pedals, patent,
(well, and French harp stop, which he flatteis
himfelf will ue fount! on trial by unprejudiced
judges, to be equal if not superior to any import
ed, and twenty per cent cheaper. Any inftru
munt purchased of him, if aot approved of in
twelve months, he will exchange.
N. B. All kinds of Muficil inflruments made,
tuned, and repaired with the greatest accuracy,
dispatch, and on the mo£l reasonable, terms, tut
ready money only.
Second hind Piano Fortes taken in exchange.
May if. uSctm.
NOTICE.
THE fubferiber having sent by the ship Nancy,
Capt. Perry, the following certificates of the
United States bark flock, to wit :
No. 26,005, to 26,014, inclusive, for three
shares each—and the said vefTel having been cap
tured on her intended voyage to England, which
will most probably occasion the loss of the said
certificates, gives this public notice,
That he shall apply at the proper offices for a re
newal of them, and that means have been taken
to prevent any improper transfer.
Henry Philips, ,
No. 11 a, South Front-street.
June X. 3aw6w
Laws of the U. S.
SIVIFT's EDITION.
JuJl Publijhed,
Price 6 dollars, 3 vol. nmo.
Sold by W. Young, Mills and Son, H, and
P. Rice, M. Carey, K. Campbell and Co.
Laws of the United States,
Frcm the commencement of the Fcdetal Govern
ment to the end oj the toft Sejfton of Con
gress, which terminated Mirch 3, 1797.
r i~'HlS edition, published under an order of
A Congress of the United States, has many 0
peculiar advintagei. In the former one, each
volume had a separate index, whieh rendered
the reference in aH cases, difficult and trouble
some, and in many almost impoflible. The in
dexes were, iroreevcr, very injudiciously com
piled. On the contrary, in the present edition,
there is one copious, luminous index, com
piled by Zephanijh Swift, Ef<j. referring to *
all the volumes, and compriiing in itfelf a com- k
plete rfigeft of all the laws of the United States ''
a
= f
Philadelphia and Lancaster Turn- f
pike Company. [
A meeting of the Stockholders of the Phili- t
ilelphia and Lancafler Turnpike Company, will 1
be held at the Company's OSee, on Monday, i.
10 o'clock, the 1 ithJune next. c
WILLIAM GOVETT. Sec'ry.
May 11. fr 4Vr .
Mr. Pickering's Letter to Gen.
Pinckney.
A few copies of the above int»r«!s:ng paper,
may be had at the office of the Gazette of the U
nitedStatet.
M'r*3 $
An elegant Hoiife in Arch-street.
C
TO be let and entered or, immediately, a large and
j elegant House at the corner of Arch and k'uah-Hrcet
There.are two drawing roofns aod one dining room
' —die largest is 31 feet by s6 —and iwo are (o cen
neftcd by folding doors as to make but one. Also,
fiv? bed rooms, b:fide five in the garrer, well Yinifiw
0 ed ior fcrvants. There arefk bes and a coach house,
* with eve*y convenience for a family. Kr.qwiteat No.
- 29? in Nxmh fttrcr, 01 at No. aiß, Arch
-0 Hi tel.
Also to be rented for the summer fcafon, a small
neat houfc and gat den about 3 j-2 miles fiom the
,t ciivs with ilablci and.coacii houfc, Ettquiie as above*
c June 6. 2aw3W
y LancaHcf, Harrijburgh, Carlijle,
Smppenjbitrg and Sunbury
S T AGES.
- ' I T IiE public are requested to (ike notice, that
t X the partnership which has for sometime fub
a fiHcd betwea : MatJiias Slcugh of Lancaster, and
n William Geer, is now difiblvcd; but, not as M.
e Slough infinuatesto the public without just cause ;
- as wiH more fully appear by a letter on the fub
t je<sk from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 29th
n December lad. a recital of which is not now deem
s ed necelTary. Any gentleman who wishes to be
more circumflantially informed of the merits of
,1 this business, by applying to W. Geer may have
the perusal ®f M. Slough's letter, and then can be
4 at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
- Geer is not perfe&ly juftifiable in attaching bim
- felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
- Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
- urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
e public were pleased to confer on the firil effort in
1 this business, VTilliam Geer, in conjun&ion with
I MefTrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
t toprofecute and carry it on, with every care, at
s tention and dispatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
s lie can poflibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
r with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
- render the passage fafe and commodious, inform
t thof« wno wish to patronize and encourage the
e undertaking, that they can take their feats at
- George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg,
Carlisle and Shippenfburg. The fare as hitherto
eftabliftied.
For the further accommodation of the public,
a Stage will start every Wednesday from the house
of Samuel Elder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
- bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
and return from thc«ce and arrive at Harrifburg
every Saturday, so that passengers destined 'for
Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed on Mon
! S ' 4 WILLIAM GEER.
k Lancaster, Jan. 27, 1797.
N. B. This Line ©f Stages ftarta from the
| house of William Ferrae, in Lancaster, on every
I Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
ceeding to the westward; and from the house of
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg every Wednes
day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns
from thence on every Thursday : performing the
fame routine daily as in its tour from Philadel
phia. mwf
To be Sold,
The time of a Negro Man,
WHO has about fix years and an half to
serve. He is honoft and sober, a toler
able waiter, and understands driving a carriage.
For terras apply at No. 113, Souih Third
Street.
May 25. eod6t-
For Sale,
That well known place, called Vandegmtt's
f r r r v,
ON Nefhaminy creek, 18 miles from Phi
ladelphia, on the New York post road,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
pfemifes are a large two ftery stone house occu
pied as a t vern, and a good one story stone kit
chen, a large frame stable with a good threshing
floor, and lbme out buildings—also a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
this place is a most elegant situation for a gentle
man s feat, commanding a view of the Nefham
iny to its junction wiih the Delaware, and thence
across to the Jersey shore. It has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
For terms applv to the Subferiber,
MORDKCAI LEWIS.
May 34- jtawtf.
To be lold or let,
And immediate pojfejjion given,
A genteel two story Brick House ;
SITUATE on the upper end ©f Broad-street, in
the city of Burlington, with four rooms and
an entry on each floor, good cellars under the
whole, a pump in the yard, a garden and court
yard, containing nearly half an acre under good v
fence, with a stable adjoining the yard. The
whole property is in good order.
For terms apply to the fubferiber in Burlington,
who will give a credit for a considerable part o£
the purchase money if good security is given.
William Coxe, jun.
May 17. lawtf
Received by the Indoftan,
From Madras,
A SMALL invoice consisting of the following
Coast Goods, viz.
Blue Cloths
Long Cloths, 14 punjums
Do. do. firie
Madrafs Handkerchiefs, and
Book Muslins r
WILLING y FRANCIS-
March iy. j aw
For Sale,
At this Office,
No. 1! 9 Chefmit-flreet,
A few Copies of a late Report of a Committee
of the Senate, en the fubje& of the ■
GEORGIA LANBS.
March 13 § \
TO BE SOLD, '
And pofTefiion given immediately,
A Lot of Land j
SITUATED in Mount-Holly, iB the county
of Burlington, in New-Jersey, lately occu
pied by Francis Bullus, Esquire, upon which ara (
an excellent brick house, two Aeries hit;h, with !
four convenient rooms on each floor, also a good !
stable, carriage house and other buildings. "The
fltuation is valuable for business of any kind, and '
at least equal to &r.v other in the tows.
Ihe terms of payment will be made easy to j
the purchaser. Apply to William Roffell, Esq.
uire, Joh* Pe-rv, or Richard Coxe, merchants,
in Mount-Holly, or to the Subscriber, in the city 1
of Burlington.
JOSEPH
Burlington, 7th April May 5
To be fold cheap, _
To close an adventure,
7 Bales Baftas
1 ditto Coffas
Apply at the Store of
Mordecai Lewis.
May 16 co2w
May 16
Jufl: piiblifhed,
By J. Ormiod, No. 41, Chcfnut.flrect, and to be
had of the other Bookfr.liers also.
An Address to the Graduates in
Medicine :
Delivered at a Medical Commencement in tbw Uni
ut*rftty of held May 12th, 1797. By
1 John Andrews, D. D. Vice-Provotl.
June 6. CO3? j
■ Advertisement.
1 '
PURSUANT ta an Order from the Orphans' Court j
ivillbc fold at PUBLIC SALE, at Cranberry, mi
the 14th day of func next % all tbpt valuable
1 REAL ESTATE, late belonging to tbs Rev. Gilbert
7. Snoroden % deceased, lying in and mar Cranberry, in
tie county of Middle fix, toicnjhip of South Brunpwicl,
Hate of Ntnu Jersey, upon the lower fiage road leading
- from Phil Delphi ato Ntiv 1"orl. A ve/y el'uant frame
' house in a beautiful and healthy fttuation, painted uohite,
1 xoilb Venetian ivindoiu flutters, thirty feet front and
• tbir!y-eigbt feet tivo rooms ivitb a handsome hall or
\ entry on the frfl floor, three rooms on the fccond floor and
' ~4hvo ivell-finijhed garrets. In the rear of the house is an
1 etcce'lent t woflory building confiding of a dining-room J. r
Iwork people, pantries and a large kitchen, unth
- every convenience, and over these are three chambers for
f servants. To the right is an additional building confijling
• of g chamber beloiu and a library above—und.r the irbcle
■ are very fne cellars paved ivitb brick. The house is en
• tirely nriv and fnijbed ivitb tafle. Every room is hung
" with bells that lead both to the kitchen and the fetvunts'
- apartments : there is a pump in the yard; and a flone
- and brick pavement round the whole house, which is enclos
ed with a handsome railing, with three gates in front.
- The farm Conjtjh of otie hundred and sixty seven acres,
1 with oproportion of woodland and meadow, under excel•
1 lent fence ; a garden with pale fence ; a large barn, fta
-1 bles, carriage-houfe i cowboufes, &c. all nrw y and built
- in the vejl manner : with a young orchard of ICO grafted
trees. Nearly adjoining said farm is a lot of Woodland
of tbehefl quality, containing 37 acres. Alf» a trail of
land ttithin seven miles of Cranberry, containing one bun
> dred and fifty acres, three-fourths meadow and the red ex
-1 cellent timber. This will be fold in lots or together, as
will befl suit the purcbafers.
■ The payments, one thirdcajb—one third in one year —
» and the remaining third, one year- following, with inter eft
' on the two lafl payments, and approved feeurity.
» For further particulars enquire of Nathaniel Hunt,
> Efqfor Dr. Ralph Lott, Cranberry ; of Isaac Snozvden,
at Princeton ; or of Isaac Snow den, fun. No.jl 41 South
» Second freet, Philadelphia.
M.ly 25 §6miuftS
• New Hat and Hosiery Store.
JnJl Imported,
In theJhips William Penn and Star, from London, and
now opining by
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL,
AT his new Hat and Hosiery Store, No. 134,
Market street
An elegant assortment ot silk, cotton and thread
Stockings
Silk, cotton and thread Gloves
Pantaloons, &c. &c.
Likewise, a handsome assortment of men's, wo
men's, and children's falhionable Hats, fuitablc for
the Season.
A confiderablequantity of low and middle priced
Hats assorted in cases, intended for country {lores
May 23. taw
To be fold at Public Vendue,
To the bigheft bidder, at the house of Mr.
"William Evans, the sign of the Indian
Queen, in the city of Baltimore, on the 35th
day ®f Oflober next, at 11 o'clock, A. M.
About seven thousand acres of land,
the property of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
lying between Reifter's-town and Weftminller,
commonly called Little Winchester, (the turn
pike road runs through a confidarable partjof
tliefe lands) the trafl begins about 17 miles
from Baltimore, within a few hundred yards
of said Reifter's-town, and extends to the dis
tance of about twenty-three miles from Balti
more, and lis on the main falls of Patapfico
river, from three to four miles thereon. Will
be fold in trails of one hundred and fifty to
three hundred acre. There is a large propor
tion of meadow and wood land on each tradl,
some of them highly improved, with excellent
buildings and fine grj.fs.
ALSO,
A tra& of seven hundred acres of
land, called Clover Farms, within five miles of
Bladenfhurg, esteemed / very good for Grass.
Richard Ponfonby, of Bladenlburgh, will shew
this land to any person inclined to purchase.
also, 1
A traft of land ©f about three hun- '
dred and thirty acres, within about two miles I
and a half of th* PreMent's house in the Fede- ,
ral City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fine ,
high profpefl, from which may be fcen the
city of Washington, Bladenfeurgh, Alexandria
and a part of George-town, ants many miles
down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard Ponfon
by, of Bladenfburg, will also shew this land.. ,
A liberal credit will be given for the greatest t
part of the purchase money. The terms will I
be made known on the day of sale. '
May 8 W3m
A FEW BOXES OF !
Bologna Sausages,
Of a superior quality, to be Sold at No. 1
199, South Front-Street.
April 20, eotf
TO BE RENTED, !
And may be entered upon at any time,
THATforcibleand wellimprovedwater works |
on Brandywine, three miles from the town ]
of Wilmington, in the state of Delaware;
CONSISTING OF ]
A large, convenient Slitting Mill, '
In complete order, having several pair of rolls
and cutters of every lize.
A large, Stone Merchant Mill,
Having three pair burr stones, boulting works,
corn kiln and every other neceflary apparatus. '
A Saw Mill,
In the best order, and a pair of timber wheels. '
A Smith's Shop and Tools.
To'accommodate these works there is a laage -
commodious flone dwelling house, kitchen and
walh house and a number of dwelling honfes
for workmen, with gardens adjoining j two large
stone stables, two stone coal houses, and a coop- '
er's lhop, with meadow and pasture grounds.
If the tenant chufes he may have the oppor
tunity ta purchase as excellent te-m of five hor- (
fes, waggon, coal carriages and bed, with a 1
flock of coal in the coal houses fufficient to ma- I
nufaflure three hundred tons of iron.—Apply to £
RUMFORD ABIJAH DAWES,
No. j, South Water-street. I
Caution.
THE PuWic are hereby forewarned against
truftmg the step-daughter of the Sublcrib
er, and her mother, his fccond wife. Repeated
mifcondudl compels him to forbid any person to
give them credit on liis account, as he will pay
no debts of their contracting after this date.
LUNO BROWN.
Philadelphia, May 16, 1797 18—^1,3^
Maurice Moynihan,
No. 81, Nirth SecondJlrett,
A few doors above Arch-ftreer,
INFORMS his friend* anil the public, that he has
for vvholefaJe or retail, on the lowed ti;rms, a
geneyl assortment of Queen's Ware, gilt and cut
tumblers, plain aridflnvcrevi cpart,pnt,ha:f pint"
and half gill do. c.xa<si r.itaiures, decanters and
wine glaffcs ; gallon, half gallon, quart and pint
bowls, and chi a rn (ets N and separate ; p©cket
bottles . Schuyikil) and Jersey country quart and
half gallon bottles; Dry Goods, Sec. &c.
N. 3. Crates put up with cars at the {horrefi no
-1 ,Ice - , ,
May 11
Imported in the Jhip Pigou,
And for l'ale by John Morton, No. I) 6, South
Front-street,
Hyson }
Hyson Skin CxL iS
Young Hyson C '
Imperial j *
, April 20. eotf
Chocolate and Mustard
Manufactured as usual,
Ginger and Fepper ground
Shewed or Pearl Barley _
Philadelphia Porter, tieer, Ale and Cyder
London Porter
Taunton and Barton Ale
Red Port and other Wines, eithe bottled,
' or by the pipe, quarter-ca(k or gallon —fuiuble
for exportation or home confuntiption—
For Sale by
' John Haworth.
No. 98 south Front street.
i May 18 tU4W
\ William Blackburn,
' LOTTERT and BROKER'S OFFICE
No. 6/, south Secondflreet.
, ' I 'ICKETS in th£ Canal Lottery, No. 11, which
X commenced drawing the. .9th May, FOR
SALE. The price of tickets will rife in propor
} tion as the drawing advances, particularly on ac
count of the five firft drawn tickets, prizes of
four thousand dollars each, on the lail day of
( drawing.
' Check Books kept for examination and register
ing, in the Canal, No. 2, City of Walhington, No.
a, and Paterfon Lotteries.
Also, tickets for sale in the Schuylkill bridge and
Perkiomcn Bridge lotteries, whieh will begin
drawing in the course of the summer. *
The bufmefs of a Broker in all kinds of Stock,
' Bills, Notes, Lands, &c- &c. tranfa&ed with the
utmoU attention.
Junes tu&f
A New Work.
PROPOSALS
For printing and publiihing, by fubfeription, The
History of Pennsylvania,
1 N North-America, from the origin»linftitution and
Jl fettlcnieet of that province, under the firft propri
etor and governor, William P«nn, in 1681, 'till
after the year 1744; with
AN INTRODUCTION,
Refpe&ing the Life of vv, PENN,
Prior to riiegrant of that Province, and the reli
gious Society of the people called Quakers; with the
FIRST RISE of the NEIGHBORING COLONIES,
mere particularly of WEST-NEW-JERSEY, and the
Settlement of the DUTCH and SWEDES on DELA
WARE.
To whieh is added,
A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SAID PRO
VINCE.
And of the general state, in which it flourilhed,
principally between the years 1760 and 1770; The
whole including a variety of things, ufetul and in
terelhng to be known, refptfting that country in early
time, &c. With an appendix.
Written principally between the years 1776,' and 1780,
By Robert Pkovd.
" Pulthrum ejl benejacere reipMca, ettam benedicere
hand tibjutdum ejl, vet pace vcl tello datum fieri hut."
sal. Catalin.
" Sid cum pltriqut trbitrtntur res bellicai majores e/e
qvam 11 rbanas, minuendacß hcecopimo."
Cic. Off.
(Entered according to law.)
" WILLIAM PENN, the great legifiator of the
Quakers, (in Pennsylvania) had the fuccel's of aeon*
queror, in eftablilhing and defending Ills colony, a
mong savage tribes, without ever drawing thefword ;
the goodness of the moll benevolent rulers, in trea
ting hisfubjeds as his own children ; and the tendcr
nels of arj universal father, who opened his arms to
all mankind without diftmflionot feftor party. In
his Republic it was not his religious creed, but per
sonal merit, that entitled every member of society to
the prote&ioa and emolument of the State*"
RJfay on Toleration, by Arthur O'Leary.
CONDITIONS.
I. This work will be printed in two o£lavo vol
umes, neatly bound and lettered, both in sheep and
calf, (or the choice of the fubferibers; on paper (imi
lartsthatof the conditions, as publilkcd in the Sub/crit
tion papers.
11. The head of William Penn, handsomely en
graved, will be prefixed to the firft, and a map or
Iketch of Pennsylvania, and the parts adjacent, to the
second volume.
Ill* The price to fubferibers will be four dollars
and an half in sheep, and five dollars in calfone
dollar to be paid at the time of fubferibing, two dol
lais on the delivery of the firft, volume, and the re
mainder on the delivery of thefecond.
IV. When one thousand copies are fubferibed
for, the work will be nut to press and finifbed with
all conven : cnt expedition.
Subscriptions will be received by Zachariah Poul
fon, jun Printer, No. 80, Chefiut-ftreet, and at the .
Philadelphia Library in Fifth-ftreet ; by Ilaac Col
lins Printer, and Joseph James, Merchant, New-
York; by John P. Pleafantsand George W. Field,
Merchants. Baltimore; and by othei perlons both
in town and country.
February 18. tu&f
GOLD AND SILVER
Bullion.
THE highest price in ready money will be "ri
ven for gold cr silver bullion, old gold or '
silver, or gold dust, at No. 19, North Seventh
flreet.
April 10 iaw6w
■ — ; e
This Dayis publilhed,
By THOMAS DO B SON,
At the Stone House, No. 41 fouthSecoud-ftrcct,
Price 37 1-2 cents,
Iwo Leßures on Combujiion.
Q Upplementaryto a course of Leflures on CHE- 1
O MISTRY ; containing nnExaniinatiou of Dr. 1
Priestley's ConSderatiotisvn the Doftrinc of Phlo- <
gifton, and the accompcfitioD of Water, -
By JOHN MACLEAN, '
Prof.ffor of Mathematits and Natr.ral' Philosophy a
in the College of New-Jersey. , S
May 3 a 1
. a
To Let,
And pojfdjffion given in tw9 ivtch,
A good 3 story Brick House, t
With back buildings—No. 43, Spruce-flrjet. a
Apply at No. toj Spruce-Creet. 4
May :6 t&t
JOHN CRAIG
HAS jufl imported from Rotterdam, via St.
Tho-mas, and for file on reafjnable terms
by thepacka^e,
• Platillas Roya!
r- H=ierlem and German linens
« Roucfii
Pc:ft and Pre Patria Paper
! yrjkt,
t Qii'" 5
Ozi."rs for Hoops, in Bundles
[Coffee Bags
He has nlfo far Sale,
Befl Red Clover Seed
Old Madeira Wine, fit fox immcrfiate use
Tenerifle Wine of firft and fceondQuality
Coffee in Bags and HogQiead*
Jamaica Spirits
Connedlicut Turpentine Soap
Window Glass
Two Trunks of best Patent, Silk and Cottea
Hosiery
April 18. 4a w
Georgetown Bridge Company.
Extra,£l of an a£l passed by the Legislature
the slate of Maryland on the 19th December,
1791, entitled, " An ail for erefling a bridge
over Potowmac river.
'• Jfnd be it enaSed, that the said diredlors or
any t<vo as them (hall and may require any sum
or sums ps money in equal proportion from each
and every proprietor, as may from time to time
be necessary for carrying on the building of said
bridge; and after giving three months public
notice, it lhallanJ may be lawful for the direct
ors K> sue for an<l rscover in the name of the
company such unpaid requisition, with all costs
and charges incidental thereto, and legal interest
thereon from the time the fame should have
7 been paid: And the negletfl or refufal to pay any
such requisition after public notice shall have
been given at least for three months in all the
newfpapers herein before enumerated, foal) have
| the effeil to forfeit all preceding payments made
on the ihare or shares so negletfed or refufed to
£ be paid to the use and benefit of the company."
j The above extract is publifoed for the infor
mation of such of the stockholders as have not
. complied with the requisitions heretofore made
1. —they are as follow: On the ift November,
1795, ao dollars, on the 10th May, 1796, 40
1 dollars; an the 20th July, 1796, 40 dollars; on
j the ill September, 1796, 40 dollars, and on the
ift Nsvember, 1796, 60 dollars. Caution i 9
, now given that after the expiration of the time
e limited for the continuance of (his advertise
ment (three months) the law will be carried
into rigid and complete effefl against all delin
quents.
By order of the Directors,
WALTER SMITH, Treasurer.
Georgetown, May I, 1797. jaw3tn
Gold and Silver Watches,
OF an excellent quality, and neat fafhionablj
Gold Chains, Seals and Keys, Eight Day
- Clocks and Time Pieces, falhionable Steel and Gilt
I Chains, &c. &c. for Sale by
JOHN J. PARRY,
Clock and Watchmaker, No. 38. S. ad flreet.
gr* Clocks and Watches of all kinds carefully
repaired.
May 19. tuef. Sc. fa. 3W
This Day is Published,
BY MefT. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the
othei Book fellers,
rice One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
Elegant'y printed on Wove paper, and Hot
prejfed,
By John Thofflpfon,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of the several States with e<ysh other, and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tablea,
the prominent features of eaeh Constitution, and
clalfing together their most impertant provision*,
under the several heads of administration j with
Notes and Observations. \
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Carolina,
L L. D. and member of the Congress of the
Unite&States.
Dedicated to the People of th« United States.
N. B. A few Copies printed on an inferior pa
per, at 3-4ths of a dollar.
February 6 mwf
for Sale,
At the Office of the Gazette of the United
States, No. 119, Chefnut-ftreet,
The lajl Report oj the late Secretary
of the Treasury; being a brief history of the
state of financial concerns of the United States.
The Proceedings of the Executive
of the United States refpedling the western in
furreclion : Containing many fa.-ls and cir.
cumftances no where else to be found. co
cents.
Ihe Letter of Mr. Pickering to
ourminifterin Frapce. 37 1-4 cents.
An Account of the Receipts and
Expenditufes of the United States for the year
'795-
A tew copies of the volume for 1794 may be
had to complete setts.
D'lvernois' account of the Revo
lution in Geneva. 12 i-a cents.
April 3. £
Important Public Document.
'THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
And for Sale
At the Office of the Editor ofthe Gazette of the
United States,
No. 119 Chefnut-Street,
[mcs ON* »OL£AK AND riFTT -CENTS}
A FEW COPIES OF THE
Receipts and Expenditures
OP THE UNITED STATES,
For the Year 1795, —
Being the J.atist Period to which an account
can be made up.
febrvaryn.
Spanijfh Language.
WANTED, a person Trell qualified so trans
late Spandh into the
Englitfh language. Sueh a one who can produce
unexceptionable recommendations, and is iiefirou»
•of immediate employment, will plcafe to make
implication in writing at tfe nffice of the Com
miflioners for carrying into effed the twenty-firit
article of the treaty of frieiidlhip, limits and navi
gation, between his Catholic majesty and the Uni
ted States of America, — during office hours, ©r
at the office of PETER LOHRA, Sec y.
Philadelphia, June I. 1 3p
Valuable Books.
A new importation, from London, ull received
and new opening anjfellingby J.ORMROD,No.
41. Chefnut-ftreet.
March 39. #o3p