t' - • * .1
of the Unit Philadelphia Daily Advertiser,
WEDNESDAT EVENING, FEBRUART 8, 1797. v XI,
NeMBBA 137 9. J _ * _ —— —»
i -S -I
Frejh Garden, Grass and Flower-Seeds,
Roots, &c. &c.
This day lending from the ftiip Eagle, captain Fofdick, A
from Londo*, H-
And FOR SALE by Lone
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE,
Corner of Walnut and Sccond-ftreew, J worl ,
A mojl capital and and ,
GARDEN, GRASS and FLOWER-SEEDS, ffCQr
ROOTS, &c. Sic. eighi
Among which arc, with
five kinds Afparagbsj Three kkrds Cresses wor i
Pour « Berecolel Twelve ° n '°" D
Twenty-five - Beans; Thirteen R^-; h
sijc Beets! Fifteen Turnip
Eleven Brocoli; Fifteea P«» gj
Twenty-fix Cabbage Six v r„Z
Six Carrot. Four «» f ?
Three Cauliflower! Twenty-three Melon
Five Celery; Twenty-one Lettuce
Ten Cucumber!
Common and lemon Thyme
Curled leaf and sprigged Parsley
Pot Marygold Pot Marjorum
Balm Thyme Mangel Wurttel
Leek Kail Shallots Bi
Ripe Seed Rye Qrafs Saint Foin Lucerne pox
Red and white Clover Timothy, &c. &c. foutfc
With a curious collection of the mod esteemed Fr
FLOWER-SEEDS and ROOTS,
Being the moll extensive ever imported int» this city.
The above are from a eapital Seedsman in Landan, and
are warranted frelh and good.
Printed catalogues may be had by applying as above. M
Qec. I" ? don
Elegant Jiruiiels & iurkey Carpeting,
For falc by George Dobfon, No. 15, South Third-street.
December 15.
- — E
Ijii A Qjjjmtity of Brandy
FIRST & id proof,
* Gin, of 4th proof, in pipes j
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhdi . f
Old Hock, in cases of 40 dozen each
Glass Tumblers, in pints and half-pints
Window Glass, in boxes, of different lijes
Hazlenuts, in sacks j
Whiting } plo ,
C®PP e 7« C jnhhd. I'
White Lead C to \
Ml Spanish Brown J n i pr
P For Sale by PETER BLIGHT. gjj
January 4 , * , and
SALTPETRE. ch«
A large quantity of Double-Refined Salt Petrc for fl
fate at No. 25, South Third-street. ?ut
November c. 9 2
Insurance Company of the State of
Pennfylyania. Cuff
«.-j oTICE is hereby given, that the directors have de- j U( I
J\ clared a dividend of thirtydoi.lari ptr (hare, on ]
he bufmers of the last fix months : which will be paid to £ 0
he ftocliholders or their legal reprrfentatives, after the cat
10th iiflant. , poi
SAM. W. FISHFR, %tc 7. g*
Philadelphia, Feb. »d, 1797- dtiqth.
Bank of Pennfylvanm,
January 4, 1797- I
At a meeting of the Directors tfc's day, a dividend of I "*
sixteen dollars on each (hare was declared for the lan V
6 months, which will be paid to $he Stockholders as- 1 tw
ter the 14th inft. * '
[ONATHAN SMITH, Caftiitr. w
Jan- 3- jtf '—
SWAN N'S
Riding School, Academy ISj Infirmary, 1
Adjoining the Pflblic Square, Market Street.
T. SWANN
RETURNS his fin cere thanks tothofe .gentlemen by whom 1
lie employed, during his residence in this Ctty, and 1
flattershimfelf that the success of his efforts, in the numerom, |
obstinate and dangerous difcafes in Horses, in which he has j
been confuUed, together with his moderate charges, will ie- j
ure £cir fui ore favors and recommendation. I
He now begs leave to inform them and the public ar large J
that his spacious and commodious premises, eie£ted for the 1
purpofos above de-fciibed are open for-the reception of pup* • |
of cither sex, whw wifhto beinftruftcd in the Art of Ridtnft, j q,
and the right method-os go»«xiaag their horses, Co as to ride J t j
them vfith eile, elegance, and lafety—their horses wiU be
carefully ano expeditioufly broke, for every purpose, and,
made obedient to. he will of the riders ; the natural powers
•which *re (but up in them, will be unfolded by art, calling |
forth uniformity of motion, and giving to that noble animal J
all thofc beauties of action which providence has so bounti- 1
fully bellowed on them.
AlCo, at his hospital, every disorder to which the horse is |
liable vnll be treated according to the rules of art, confirmed j
by long and repeated experience.
The utility of the above inUitution has never been qneftion- I
ed, that it has long been wanted in this city, ever\f gentleman's j
stud wi)l manifeft, and T. Swann as thefiilt eftablifher of J
the vetercnary art, ialicits and relies upon the fuppoibof that |
public (which he is ever anxious in serving) to enable him to J
btingit to perfettion. Thr idea of a iubfeription tor that |
purpose has beeu hinted by several gentleman, who with to J
promote the institution—the amount of each fubferiptioo to |
be returned by services in any of the departments, he profefTes, I
agreeable to'the rate of charges (lated in his hand bill. Such 1 i
iubfeription is now' Open, and the figri3tures of many rerpeut- J >
able gtgatiemen alieady obrained. He therefore injorms fajs j ,
friends ami fut h Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has not j j
the hoaor of being known, that he shall in a few days take j
the liberty of waiting upon them and folicicing their support I j
®Pd prmention. I
N. &. Horses are properly prepared for those j
Oentlemenwho wifhto be inftrufted.
Nov. "h&r
<£r NOTICE. j
THE Sales of LANDS >of the United States, in the |
ISorth-Weftern Territory, heretofore adyertifed i
in the several public papers, will commence this even- j
ing, Mtfhe City Tavern -to be continued from day J
to day, 'till* the tenth of February next, if not sooner
fold.
January 4 $ I
L A N D I N G y
AT Walnnt-ftreet wharf, from on board the Ihip Peg- j
gy, captain Elliott, from Bourdeaux,
VI (s T DE GRAVE, or White Claret, in Hhds and Qr* J
Cafksi j
RIJQ CLARET, in Hhds
Ditto in cases of 24 and 30bottles each
•Green and Souchong TEAS, in quarter chcfts
For sale by
Rundle & Leech,
jJJn. 5 Walnut-street.
• M>rua»y6 mwftf I
Clocks and' Watches".
LESLIE ANi) PRICE, N»v
No, 79, Market-street, Philadelphia, j
HAVE IMPORTED, by tbe late arrivals from „
London, a large alTovtmcnt »f WARRANTED WJ(cr
WA I~CH ES, eanGftiug of horizontal, cappM and ( j ra , Jvir
jewd'd Gold Watches, with fecoadf, of superior
workmanlhip and elegance ; also capp'd and jewcl'd ra{| ot
and plain Gold Watches ; capp'd Scjewell'd, capp'd, eyrr j.
seconds, day of the month, and plain Silver Watche ;
eight day ac£fc*wU*i' Clocs.s; elegant frcaci Clock*
with marble frames; eight day and thirty ho»r, bract a quJ ,.
1 works, ice. v
| Decembet %%, d * tn be refi
! A PARCU OF VERY FIXE He
! St. Croix Sugars and Rum, *!>«
JAMAICA SPIRITS,'and FQ
1 LAGUIRA HIDES,
; For Sale by
Feb. y.-Jiw JAMES YARD.
TO"'BE SOLD, ~ A.'
The Time of a smart, aflive,' young thefi
Negro Wench, >7 Ar
BETWEEN 11 aild 14 yeais of age, andjuft had the small diamo
pox. For terms, apply at Mr. WILLI AM BAXTER*, 1 * ' C ' r
south Front-stre e t, No. 31 2, below Alonond-ftreet. in cal<
Febmary , M_
Women's Cloaks. va J^ at
j GEORGE DOBSON, Mar t)
No. »5, South Third-itreet, de Bil
Has just received, per Eagle, Capt. Fofdick, via Lon- 4 yol
dpn, an assortment of Ruins
Scarlet turali^
> Prab (Qloak' trimmed with tur and 3Hva,
t. Purple,and T ermine. triTu
Pearl J Jan
December 15. 5 | p
— — CAMILLA,-
Or A Piifture of Youth.
By the authoress of Evelina and Cecilia, to be com- p a y t V
prised in five volumes, at half a dollar each, payable n y, ai
on delivery —Printed at New-York, by Mr. Jolm Philac
Bull. of P a
CONBITIONS. bruar
I. Handsome, neat type, perfedllj new, is em- ailed,
ployed. . .
11. A voluijie, ft itched in blue paper, is intended
to be publiihed every 2 weeks, till the five are com- _f e
pleted; the firft and second ajc come to hand, and the
third is hourly expeflefl. Si.bfcriptions are received,
— and Books may be had of J. OKMROD, No. 41,
Chefnut-ftreet- Dif)l „
>r Mrs. D'Arblay (late Miss Burney) the celebrated
»uthorefs of this inimitahie work, needs eulogy
to add to the laurels flic has acquirer' in the
if literary world. The ftrepgth of imagination and ele
gance of style, displayed in Evel'na >nd Cecilia, w:il
iufficiently iccommend to every reader of taste and
e " judgment, the perusal of Camilla.
'* It may not be improper to add, hat the Queen of
t0 England, after having perul'ed this interelting pnbU
-16 cation, presented Mrs. D'Arblay with a thouLnd
pounds sterling, »•; i. testimony of her approlfttion of L<
The work.
Jannorv 15
— 1 1 - ' ~ x r d
Washington Canal Loucry, ««•
n°. 1.
of] TTrHEREAS the State of M iryiir.d has authcrife< Co
all VV the underwritten, to raise twenty-fw thollland
as- two hundred, a*d fifty dollar*, for the purpose of cutting o
4 Canal through the City of Wafliington, fro,.i th f" a nd
J tomacto theEaftern Branch Haruour. raac
The following is the SCHEME <jf No. I. til''
Vij -J Prize of 10,000 dollars, V
1 1 ditto 10,000 jo,ooo to ]
7 laft drawn 1 ' 3 »
Tickets, each \ J the
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
, IO ditto 4,000 t
to ditto 100 2,000
om 1 55 ditto SO »,7JO
and I J750 ditto I* 69,008
lus ! To be rjifed for th» Car.al, 16,250 An
1 ie-j 5850 Prizsa, »7_5p00 _•]
11650 Elanki, not two to a prize. (
irge
the] 17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
ipils I The Cemnr.jffioners have taken the Securiue* rc
i'HS I quired by the aforefaid aft for tkc punitual payment ol
j the prizes.
' The drawing as this Lottery will commence, without
and I delay, as soon as thf Tickets are fold, of which timely
n"' I notice will he given.
I I Such priees as are not demanded in fix months ofter th* bji!
lm .° drawing is finifhed, shall be ccnfidered as relinqulihed for ric
J ° I the benefit «f the Canal, and appropriated accordingly. the
re is (Signed) NO'IXEY YOUNG, fin,
l' d ! DANIEL CARROLL,o/D. the
LEWIS DEBLOIS, pu
tion- GEOKGE WALKER, rot
lan'i j Wm. M. DUNCANSON, a 1
1 of THOMAS LAW, au
fthat JAMES BARRY. ral
] City of WalhiDgvon, Feb. 5 on
—: —THE suijackiiiiiK fel
WISHES to ascertain, whether a certain EDWARD
Such NEVILL, by trade a Stone-Cutter, or Brick-Layer, —
p««t- j who quitted Ireland 1783, ° r 1784, an( l came into
' this Country, ('tis fuppefed to Philadelphia) about
s not four years since, be fiving or dead. As this iritelli- 5 1
oke "encs is of the highest importance, it will be thankful- M
'P° rt f y received, by GEO. DAVIS, T
No. 3x3, High-street D
j Deoemberji. w& f t;n
for Sale, j a
lAt the Office of the Editor of the Gazelle of the c ,
I United States,
11 1 rTt FEW 4oP|Pt OT - 'P
1 j "An account oTnrtre Receipts and
dTy Expenditures of the United States, f«r the year 1795/'
loner January 18, T797- _
For Sale,
— By George Defchamps, No. 91,
' NORTH SIXTH-STREET y F]
Peg " Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels »,
i Qr- and half barrels
Ditto Herring and Mackarel.
I Smoaked Herring in barrels and kegs
I Ditto Salmon, by the dozin or fingleotie
I Dry Codfiih, from one to fifty keritals n
I Fine and coarse Salt _ 1
I Nova-Seotia and French Plaster of Paris, 111 the stone ti
eet. I and ground, foj- WAnure and ftucco-wo<k p
vftf I December I tthfrf
The Elephant,
Now exhibited, wo* bought for Ten 'i'Vtoufand * e 'P
Dollars. se(5 e (
He is 3 years old, 6 feet high, growing to 18 feet. '
He eats 150 weight a-day, and drinks 1 barrel of r '
water ;he has drank fame days forty bottkes of porter, A
drawing the corks with bis trunk. B»ok
He is perfectly iuoffeßfive; travels loose, at the Jacor
rat* of five nailes an hour, and Uthe grcateft curiosity trip
eyer brnught to this Onntif ent. Fine
It- . to >e seen 'nU I.sth of janairy, in Tajnl
Mirket-ftreet between Tiiird and Tom th-ftreet-T—af la«lia
a quirtenof a dollar, that every one may fee him— Sheet
after which time the former price of half a dollar will Jacol
be rdiimed. Book
He will leave Philadelphia as soon as the weather Mull
will permit. ,
December 11 d I a ™
t — , —,—rr Pock
FOR SALE AT WILLIAM t'RIEST,VAN'S Caml
No. 15 south Fifth-ftreet,
Between Market and Chefnut Streets, Won
\ Quantity of Plain Gold Watches-; Gold enamsl'd &
[\. ofr.amented with pearls; Silver and metal ditto, by j y^en^
tbe firfl makers in Lcndnn and Paris; a Time-Piece >p am
by Arnold; plajjs gold by Mudge tS" Dutton; several
[ diamond and diamond ft" pea-1 lockets rings, ear-rings,
1 &c; about to >. of Scotch thread; dojuhle-barrel'dguns,
in cafe, by Manton ; quantity of plated table, tea, »nd j
nii;ht plated eandleftieks, branches, &c. 46 volumes of p oc j^
Law-Books, in one lot, maftly reports, folia, fc»ce and j_j
valuable books; books of Prints ;—amongft which are A
Martyn on Shells, Statue da Rolfi, Calmet's Di<ft : onuairc
de Bible, Johnfou's Poets, 75 vol;. Balkerville'i AddifoH,
■ 4 vols. .Biographia Britannics, Opcre dc Machiavelli, A
Ruin- of Balbec, Blair's Chronology, Plinii Hiliorica Na-
furalis, Montfaijcon's Antiquities, State Trials; Evelyn's
Silva, Poftlewayte'i Diilian iry, Rittrattii duomini illuf-
tri Tufcani, Ouevres de Siyle, Caracci.
January 31 J A
Pennsylvania Population Compariy. A
XTO; !« ® m hereby rfrvj-.«i, to f<>«h as j
as hav» not plrithUerr alieUmentToo tbtirfhares—-to —"
" pay the fame immediately to the Secretary of the Compa-
J ny, at the Company's OfQee, No. 53 north fo^ilh-ilreet,
I Philadelphia. They are furthar informed* that in default
of paying the fac?e withiu thirty days from the 4th 1 f Fe
bruary, inflant, the fever:.! forfeiturei will be ltriolly ci- q 3^.
- afied, in conformity to thj ilft article of ajTociation. ~
By order of the Board, carg
i '' SOL. MARACHE, Secretaryr f d il s
Feb 1. 4 — §3° oabi
e Hibernian Society.
' — .
' Such of th« Members ol this society as are entitled to ing
Diplomas, are rcquetted to apply for them to Wi
j Mr. Hugh Holmes, Prfident;
.. Mr. David M'Cannick, Treasurer;
e Mr. Robert H. Dtinker, CaunfelUr; Sm
;- Mr. Jojepb Brown i .'
II Mr. Edward Hex ;
d Or to MATHEW CAREY, Sec.
Philad. Tin, it, 1797. tay6t *j
t 50 Dollars Reward, tg
ld — ~ , ~
)f LOST, last betv/cn eight and nine o clock,
as the fubferiber was g<'ing to his houle at the Fall* of
troai th;' houlc of his tather-in-law, !\iix frc
— SteNvart. in Sugar between Sixth and Se* ■
veiith-ftrcets, arove M'»rketrftreet, J
A black POCKET-BOOK,
« Containing, 1190 Dollars, in Bank-Notes
'd- From to it: 0 Dollars .ach,
One of vyhich was .0! the of NcW-York,
0 and several papers, rc<jei ts and orders. — lne n<
road the ful briber fopk, was the Falls road ? crofling at
the Upper Ferry. V(
Whoever fi'n<ls the ah/we Pocket-Book, returns it w
to the fubferiber at the Falls, or to his fatker*in-law, oi
u.r. Stewart, living in Sugar Alley, Jhail be entitled to 2
the above reward, paid by n
JAMES HAFFY
Feh. §• _ I
I'his Day is Publiihed, t
Br 810 REN and MA DAN, jj
And to be Sold at their Printing-Office, in Dock- s
street ; by M.Carey, No. 118, Market-street ; 8
Thorn as Bradford, No. 8, South Froiit-llreet, and
George Douglafs, No. 2, South Thivd-iireet, ,
C Price, neatly bound., two dollars) s
ANEN I R Y
tol Concerning Political Justics,
t And its Influence on Morals and Happijiefs, ,
By William Gonwm. j
THE reputation of this work is already well cfta- j
th* bjlifhed in Europe—lt is hardly necessary for an Ame- I
for rican editor to fay more than-barely to mention, that 1
ly. the Enquiry concerning Politieal Justice has ever !
since >ts publication been a favorite performance with i
r D. the friends of republican government. The stile is
pure, nervous, and claflical; the ideas are strongly 1
marked by an original vein of thinking ; and, amongst !
, a multitude of other just and Urging pafiages, the ]
author's delineation »f the peculiar infelicities infepa- :
rable from the condition ol a King, raay be pointed '
out as a n}oft masterly specimen of philosophical disquisition.
-—quifition. The latest London edition of this work
fells in this city at four dollars and an half.
RD January 24 d^taw2w
f n e t ' o ' Red Clover Seed,
Dout Fresh red Clever Seed of the bell quality, in bags of
elli- 5 bulhels each
tful- Madeira wine in pipts, fit for immediale use
Teneriffe wine in pipes, hoglheads and quarter calks
et ' Ditto do. of firlt quality, fpr the u.fe of private
m families
Coffee in hoglheads
Jamaica spirits
" le Conne<Slicut soap in small boxes
Window glass and Spanilh fegars, and
Two trunks of best patent, plain and ribbed SUt and
ind cotton hofierv, fpr sale by
95 ." ' JOHN CRAIG.
February j. wff&mtf
James M'Alpin, Taylor,
No. 3, South Fourth-flreet,
' RETURNS his grateful acknowledgments to his
Friends and the Public for their liberal encouragement,
reiS and begs leave to solicit a continuance of their favors.
He has on hand an extensive assortment of the
Mod Fajhionable GOODS,
And of the best quality, fuitahle for the season.
At this ihop Gentlemen can be l urniihed with the bed
materials, and have them made up in the neatest and mod
Fashionable manner, and on the (hortcft notice. He wijl
stone thankfully receive any orders, and pay a prompt and
pupfhial attention, to them.
iscS November 10. w»
■ - - _ ' 11 ■I I ——■» t
Mas. G RATTAN
Refpeilfully .forms her friends, and tic public '»
genera!, that on Tueltlay the loth d-v w, January,
(he propofcs opening, at No. 39, North Sixths
ftrpet,
A Linen and Muslin Warehouse.
B»ok Muslins, from 6/j to ii/ii per yard
Jaconet ditto, from ZJQwyjt per yard ,
Striped <£itt<s7 from 7/10 to 10/16 per yard
Fine Coffaes ** ,
£ajHhour'd Booh Muslins, from 13/9 to P^ r
; India Mufiin, from lift to 13/ pel yard
Sheeting Muslin
I Jaconet timflin Handkerchiefs, fr«m 4/3 to 6/ per hdkf.
Book muslin Handkerchiefs fiom 5/3 to xo/6 per M*f;
. Muslin color'd and border'd- Handkerchiefs
Dacca Handkerchief*
Tamb«ur*d Cravati from 10/*B to Ilfll
- Pocket Handkerchiefs
Cambric, from 11/3 to 16/j per yard
Table Cloths
Huckabuck To welling
Women's Cotton Hose, from 6/lj to Ij/perpatr
Dimity from 5/10 to (fu
Men's Silk Hole
| Tambour* d muslin Handkerchiefs from 11/ it to 13fi
Irilh lhegi for Genfleirfcn's Shirts, from !{fs to { jj 7
■ And a variety of other articles.
.' N. 8. Orders received for all kinds of ready made
r Linen, Gentlemen's Shirts, ruffled or plain, Crav|tij
Pocket Handkenshiefj, &C. &c.
Houfliold Linen, Sec. See.
I A plain fliirt, made ar.d mark'd, 3 1-1 dollars,
A full ruffled ditto, 4 dolLrs.
' A plain shirt, made apd mark'd, 5 dollars.
' A full ruffled ditto 6 dollars.
A plain ftiirt, made anil marked, 5 1-1 dollars.
3 A full ruffled djtto 7 dollars.
A plain fnirt, made and mark'd, 6 dollars.
A fall ruffled ditto 711.
A plain ihirt, made and mark'd, 6 l-t dollars.
A very fine ruffled ditto _8 dollars.
I4iren JuileiaO. t
s January 13. _ '."'jl
FOR SALE,
c ' ORION,
SHE is between eighteen months and tw»
►" m years old ; her frame is of the belt of YY •
Oak ; (lie is a faithful-built vessel—handsomely finifked OK
a:,d well found iu every particular : is ready !io reccive a
cargoandctifi.be put to Sea v ithout any expense on her Hull,
fails, or rigging. She (tows 6jo battels, has a haadforac
cabin and ltierage, and a hall deck which will (low frventy
five or eighty barrels. She is a lad tailing velfel — his been
newlycau ked, gia»ed ana fainted, and pulin thorough n°°4
repair in every refpeft ; her inventory may be fern by apply
to ing to the captain 011 board fiii 1 fchooncr, laying at Mr. Joh»
Wilcocks's wharf, between Chefnut and Walnut Street, where
ftjc U any time may be thoroughly examined by tl)ofe wb^
wilh to purchase.
The terms of sale may be knowt) by applying to SamueJ
Smith, lUip broker, No. 86, South From Street. \
Feb. 4. dl >'
ZZZ FOR SALE,
j 7 H£ S HIP MARY,
~~~ SAMUEL PARKER, Masth,
: hundred tons burthen. Apply tjj
cki JOSEPH ANTHONY, St Co,.
of If the MARY is not fold ia a few days, ibe will tafc
in. freight for Hamburg. Apply a« above.
3e* 31. ( '-
Lancajter, Harrijburghy Carlijle } Shift
1 , penjlitrg and Sunbury
u ' s S T A G E S.
irk, The public are requested to take notice, that the parte
L'he nerlhip which has for some time, fu'ufiftcd bctweoit Mathir
Jat a< Sl«ughof Lancalter, and William Geer, is now dilT»lr
" ved i hut, not as M. Slough iiilinuates to the public
s it without jull cause ;as will more fully appear by a letter
aw, on the fuhjeft from M. Slough t» W. Geer, dated th*
1 to 29th December last. a recital ol wjiich is not now deemed
neccffary. Any geutjeman who wishes to be tnor' cir
cumstantially 11, Termed of the merits of this bufmefs, by
r applying to W. Geer may have the perufd ef M. Slouch's
lettsr, and then can be at full liberty to determine whe
ther or not \y, Geer is not perfectly jufrifiabie in attach*
iiig himfelf to any other pert'on in the prosecution of the
3C ] C _ Stage coßvityance from Philadelphia to Stiippeiifburg,
t . or any other place.
' j Now from tbe liberal and generousfupport the public
a were pleased to confer on the firft effort in this business,
William Geer, in conjun&ion with Messrs. Reily, Weed
and Wi'.mer, is determined to prosecute and carry it on,
with every eare, attention and dispatch that a zeal to Or
blige the public can possibly t
The above company, who are amply proviaed with
8 ' carriages, horses, and eyery appurtenance to render the
paffege fafe and commodious, inform those who wish t»
efta- patronize and the undertaking, that they can
Line- take their feats at George Weed's, the sign of the White
that Ht.rfe, Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
ever and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Carlillc
with and Shippenfljurg. The fare as hitherto eftablnhed.
e is For the further accommodation ol the public, a Stage
nglr will start every Wednesday from the house of Samuel
melt Elder, in Harrifburg, arriveat Sunbury in Northuinber
t'h c tand county, every Thurlday, and return from thence and
_ arrive at .Ilarrilburg every Saturday, so that paffeuger*
.1 destined for Lancaller or Philadelphia, may proceed am
I i;r Mondays.
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster, Jan. Z7, 1797.
W , 2W N. B. This Line«f Stages ftartj from th« house of
—: — William Ferree, in Lancaster, on every Tuesday and Sa
turday morning at 6 o'clock, proceeding to the westward;
gs of and from the house of Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg
every Wednesday morning, on the fame evening arrive*
at' Patrick Cochran's in Shippecftmrg.and returns fr»m
thence on every Thursday : per loaning the fame routine
• daily as in' ttstour from Philadelphia.
' Feb. 1. «"»"•
A GAR D.
If Mfnficyr G. H. Souls,
Who left Bordeaux the aeth June lalt, and arrived
an( j at Boiion ibout the middle of Abguft, in the schooner
Jane, is in Philadelphia, he is requested to call on
G Joseph Anthony & Co. No. j, Chefnut-ilreet, who
: " will give him some information of importance-
■ — December 24, 1796.' $
The Lyceum, for five Debate,
p his In Mr. Poor's School-Room, CherryJlrfst, bctwicy
ment, Third and Fourth Streets, jVorth.
ors. Adjourned %>ueJlion.
; On Wednesday eveniug, the Bfh February, will be
continued the debate on the following qvefiion—
" Ought a Kefrefejttative in a Retiublicmn Governr
e k«ft ment to aft on important meejvre< from the result of his
d mod c<wn judgment, or from tbe <will of his Confiituents le
ts wijl gaily exprefpd ?"
it and The chair will bt taken at 7 o'clock.
Admittance for ladies and gentlemen, i-Sth of »
rs dollar.CONGRESS or the UNITED STATES.
HOUSE OF REPRSS E'HTATtVE-S.
Monday, January 16.
Mr. Dwight Foster, from the committee of I
C '.ims, made reports on the petiiions of Frederick
and Andten Dunftan, which w-ete against
1 the petitioners. Tfre (irfl was concurred In by the
honfc ; the lad was ordered to lie on the table.
.Mr, New moved that the petition of James Gar
net, !• gatee and administrator of James Mercer,
should be referred to the committee on the laud-of
lic.e bulinefs. Agreed,
Mr. Ames moved a refoiution to the following
rtirCl, viz. " That the committee of commeice
Hpd manufaftutes be direfied to enquire whether it
v. ould r.ot be expedient for the better fecuiitv of i
nsvigation, to place, a number of Buoys within and
'..car the harbour of Bollon, and report b) bill or
ot her wife." Agreed to.
Mr. Havens prefenteu a petition from the c»llec
tor of cufloms and revenue for Sag-Harbour (I.ong-
Island) praying for an increase of salary.
Mr. Mierborne presented also a petition from Je
remiah Libby, Poftmaftci of Portsmouth (N. H.)
'o the fartie effcA ; both of which wererefeired to
the committee of commerce and cianufa&ures.
/ Mr. Milledge presented a petition from -William
Matthews, clerk to the corr.miiTary of The state of
Georgia, for compensation. Referred to the com
mittee of claims.
Mr. W. Smith, from the committee of ways and
means, made a report on the fubjeA of appropriati
ons, which was twice read and committed to a com
mittee of the whole.
Mr. Harper laid a refoiution on the table, direc- ■
ting the secretary of the treasury to lay at stated
periods certain statements of duties and drawbacks, !
before the lioufe. *
Mr. W. Smith said the attorney-general had ;
been directed to makea report tocongrefsin March '
' 795« relative to a claita-ofLthe n f Crurpiii '
to certain lands, which had never been made to that '
houle, but to the Senate only. He'fa'd the land .
in question was of gieat extent and value, and [
some measure ought to betaken on the fubieift. He j
therefore proposed that a meffaga ihould be sent to 1
the attorney-general for a copy ef that report. A
greed. ,
Mr. Malbone.faid he found it inconvenient to at- «
tend both the committee of commerce and m«nu- e
fattures and the committee of claims, and desired i
to be excused from attending upon the committee f
of claims. He was excyip), and his colleague Mr. ti
Potter was appointed. f
In eommittee of the whole, R,'r. Dent in the chair, e
on the report of the committee of ways and means, \
on the fubie& of a land tax.
Mr. Henderfon. Mr. Chairman, lam very sensible
that our present revenue system is not fufficientlv pro- ?
dutpVe, toanfwer the exigsncies of government, and
that it isneceflary, during the present session, to adopt ''
forme measures to improve it. This,, I believe, will be si
admitted by all, and the only question is, as to the ti
mode by which it lhall be ac&mplilhed. a
iwo modes of obtaining an increase of revenue, are _
contemplated. Ihe one, by extending the present fy- ,
ft*m of muireA taxation, as far as prudence will ad
ir.R—The other, by having recourse to direst taxation. t
llfon taking a comparative view of the two differ- «
ent modes, the advantages that appear to my mind, u
to arise ont of, and flow from tne firft, have so much
the preponde'rance, that 1 cannot give my aflent to the
adoption of the other,- until the improvement of the 1
IvAem of individual taxation has bcentairly tried, and
ihall prove infufficient to meet the necessary expendi- a
tures of government. * .' 'v * tl
Sir, I will take the liberty to enumerate » few of the «1
advantages lhat the present system poflefies, which can- h
not be attached to the new one. This fyftiin harbeen 1
organized, for a eonfiderable length of time, and the
citizens have got accuftcmed to, «ud are generally well
fittst.ad with it. It can be extended without any
•change in the- system, or perhaps the appointment of
one new officer. It will occasion the least possible ex-
•pcnce in thecolleaion. It is the molt easy aad agree- »
able mode of raising revenue from our citizens, in the tl
•power of government to adopt. They pay the tax a
vbiuntarilv and imperceptibly; they have an option,
to coniumc much, er little ; and in proportion to their r
eonfumption, will bc their contribution to the revfnue.
Sir, the revenue arising from this -fyliem, has been l '
8 state progreflion ever since the system was Ic
got into operation, and.l trust may be jireferved ia w
that state. It has, I believe, answered l '
sanguine expectation of its promoters, and I have £
very little doubt on my miud, but that i» would have ff:
met all the common exigencies of govermtient, if
there had not, of late, atifen some very extraordina- 31
ry aad heavy greatly augmented ci
our public debt. b
Sir, with regard to the system of direst taxation, cl
almost every member who has advocated themea- el
sure, acknowledges that it will be attended with ?
coufiderable and I belfeva the opi- 11
nion to be well founded. Great innovations upon G
fyllems of taxation, are generally embariaffing. It r(
isto tu unexplored giound. The drawing of reve- u
cue, by coercion, trom our citizens, appear&to me "
one of ttit mo ft delicate and difficult fuljeas <jo- r '
vernment can engage in. Besides the danger*of u
ehcreafing the excitement of public mind, and 0
of alienating the affections of o*:r citizens from die ei
present government, 1 think that the difficulty of "
levying a land tax upon principles of equal juftics u
{a priiieiple that ought always to be kept {n view.) tc
W ..I be almost infuper bk. Thtsjfentiment was so ll
fully and ably difcufled by the metnber from South- f<
Carolina, who was-lafc up 00 the fubje&,jthat there §
is little room for any fur"her remarks upon it. 1 a '
will proceed t.i observe, thatthisXyftem wilLrequire 111
jii. entire new organization, which cannot he c-med ll
imoioperation short of a very heavy expenfc, and w
tijt earlielt probable time that it will afford aid to r 3
our revenue will be coflfi-krafcly icmote. With w
t» the expenses of the fyilem, the feereiary w
of the treasury appears to have been, sensible that ul
the cidleition of taxes in this way would lie very —
expeuiive, as will appear by a ftatwnent m his re
port upon the system In that report, he appor
t'one the sum of .1,484,000 dollars to the fcveral
h%; deduCls for abatements, er
k. leousaffeffments, an<j diaries of colh aion, fifteen
;er cent, amon ;i ng to 222,600 toliars, ieaviug
ti,e utt j.ru.ecd. ot the ta* tlaiku, au tt
■ expfnfe .Vißiy (lie <-xp*nfes of colled,f
under the picfent a view which I wi '
attempt to exhibit, as contained in the last ilate
ment of tife secretary of the tteafiiry, (hew ing the
amount of duties upon imports, tonnage, &c. »he
net proceed* ate stated at 7,959,4x39 : 7°
f lars, and'the expenses of collection are Hated *<
! 260,359: 'SI dollars, making between three anil
U an halt and four per centum. The difference will
be as ! j to 3 3 4, or at mod to 4
C Sir, with regard to the txpenfes of collection, I
would nft, if any member would want a moment s
time to which is the preferable system ?
I apprehend net.
Sir, the gentleman from Pennfylvaoia, who wis
r firftupoa this lubjeiA, regretted exceedingly that a fy
' -stem of direst taxation hid not been adopted long lince
c by government. For myj»art, I differ very much in
* .opinion from that-gentleman on this point, and-J can
f fay, that instead ot' regretting, I rejoice rtiit fucb a
1 system has not yet been adopted, aad have full confi
r dence that the measures of government will not be pa
ralysed, as that gentleman seems to ihiflk, if ' l fcoeld
be further postponed. That gentleman is eegaged in
the commercial line, I am in the agriealturli line,
which, perhaps, may account for our great difference
in opinion upon this point. Hawever confonmt it
may be to the feelings and interests of the commercial
| part of our-citizens, to have the revenue raised in this
, way, sure I am, that the gentleman, with all the force
of eloquence and reasoning that he is poffelTed of, w ill
never be able t» convince the great body of the yeo
, manry of this country, that it will b« snore for their\
interests to colleift the revenue at th« expence of 15
per cent, than at the expence of 3 or 4 per cent.
Sir, it Appears that the geutleman from Pennsylva
nia has it in contemplation, tothiow the whole bur
then of government upon tbe farmer. If I rccolle£l
right, his words were these—" The wealth of the
country rnuft have bccome so eonfiderable, from the
high price which eveiy agriculturalproduilioo had long
been at, as to enable them very well to fuppprt the ex
pences of government."—With regard ta which, I
would obfewve that under the present system/ in my •-
piaion, the farmer generally bears an equitable pro
portion ef the expences of government, 't here may
be'fome few sxteptions, as it is impeffible that any re
venue Jyilenn can, be ettablilbed that W'H operate equal
ly in proportion to wealth upon every citiaen aad it
would he SljElyrajpolitiato ray tire whole burthen of
•the revenue upon anyone particular class or descrip
tion of citizens, but the surest policy, is to I«t both a
gricuhural aad commercial bear their parts as they
now do.
The gentleman farther •bferved, " that if peace
was made between tbe nations a: war, he had po
doubt, but there would be a defalcation of she rev
enue," He offered no reason to support hi« opin
ion, and as lam of different opinion, I will, in a
-few words offer the reasons why 1 think our reven
ue, instead of meeting with any ccnfiderable Chock
from that event, (so ardently to be wished for by
every humane mind, by every true American)
will be improved. Commerce depends chiefly up
on wealth and population. If peace fnould take
place, our wealth and population will pregrt fs very
tact. I think we n_ay reasonably calculate upon a
larger ratio of wealth and population emigrating
from all parts of Europe to America.' In propor
tion to the increase thereof will be the demand for,
and eonfumption of imported articles. Our com
merce will not only be continued with the old, but
be extended to uew markets, which will of course,
tncreafe the quantity of impoftj asd tonna|c, and
in proportion at they are increased, will cur reven
ues be augmented.
The gentleman observed that, with refpeft to
excise, he need not fay how unprodu&ive it had
been. Ihe article of fnuff, instead of producing
any thing, bad brought the revenue in debt j and
that the cxcife en another article;' hatjlalkd forth v
the military to enforce ft. Sir, if the gentletpan
had attended to the report of the Secretary of the
Treasury, speaking on the fubje<3 of internal rev
enue, he would not have made so unqualified an
expression as to the produtft of the txcifc. The
Secretary of the TreafuTy informs, that tbe pro.
dust of the internal revenues for the prefest year
will be eonfiderable more than the year past, for
the year past they were stated at between 300,000
| and 40®,000 dollars. With regard to the article
of fnuft, it is obvious to every one that this arefe
from, the advantage that was taken of the law, but
the lav being suspended, there cao he ip further
loss ; and I think that when it (hall ie amended,
we may count upaa a-net prodnft hereafter ,f ro ra
that article. With regard to the article that the
gentleman allsdes to, that the ex C lfe upon had
en'led forth the military to info,roe it, I would only
remark, that it is now become certainly productive
and generally fatisfa&ory, a*d as to the unhtppy
circumftanee ot the .military being- called forth \I
believe that it was not-owing to any inherent pr'm
cip.e of the law, but much more to extraneous cauf.
es, which I (hall cot attempt to explain The
gentleman- went on toobferve tlut*the aujmenta
ti.nof duties would not prove an augmentation of
our revenue, * 1 believcthat lo bc ; ncor .
£3c } tlllnk . ,f th « gentleman had attended
to the final operations of our government, he would
not have advanced tt,-Sir, our du-ies have been
repeatedly raised, and daily experience convinces
us that our revenue has uniformly been in a st a t e
°f progfeffton Sir, the gentleman endeavoured to
enforce his arguments by referring to the tecom
menilatioßsof the Prcfident of the United States
upon the fubjed For my part I wouldtefS
Ih/pA ■" 10 tHe recommen d»tion, „t
the President, as 1 f.ncerely believe that they ire
founded in wtfdom and putriotifm. But until the
gentleman can change ih t phraleology of theP.efi
oent s recommendations upon the occiGon, h; tan
not «ake the argument apply. The Prefidtti '
With, conveyed the idea of a land tax being „ cce (T a .
wi'ih'h" C9n,C<ld WC arc 88 """* complying
«uh h.s recommendation by raising the revenue
wanted tn the one made, as we would be in the
A/» Continued.].
ivir. Pickering's Letter.
This Day Published,
AND MR SALE Br THE EDITOR
■™c. , - Pri " thrcc «'S ht « of a Doilar.
r"" 3fc ' cUr y of State, to Mr p; Pci
,' p r Pl = u, P"ttdtiary of the United States to
I the rraiit Republic. Feh,u, ry 4 . 6 \
I PRtLAD
" WEDNESDAY EVENINO, fEBRUARV 8, 1797.
e Yesterday arrive! here the brig Susanna, Fitzpa
1 trick from Bourdeaux, which place he left Dec. I.
t By this arrival we l<arn that the brig Liberty, cap
[l Ridge, in which Mr PincJwrcy, our ram.lier
I) plenipotentiary to the republic of Trance, went
' paffemter, had fafcfy arrived there ten day. before
f he .failed, and that Mr. Pirtckney had proceeded im
s mediately to Paris, but no information had been re
l ceived in refpeA to his reception there. It was,
however, the opinion of our consul, Mr. Fe»wici;,
5 and others, -at Eourdeaux, that Mr. Pinckney would
. be received by the directory.
; • Caot Fitzpatrick brought Paris papers to the
i 2.3d Nov. "which are not so late a» our Paris ac
-1 counts by Ae Britifc packet, which are to the 23d.
Of the number of unfortunate citizen* who hare
foffered a grieveus captivity in Algiers, sixty have
returned to their country and friends ia the ship ar
rived at Marcus Hook.
Yesterday a number of carriage* were dispatch
ed by order of government to convey them 10 the
city.
Arrived ft Marcus Hook, the ship Two Sifters,
Henry, from Port au-Prinee, and (hip Sally, Gei
fton, from Honduras..
The Hope, Benbridge, is arrived at Bourdeaux,
\ from Philadelphia. ,
ADDRESS
Of the Cure and Inhabitants of Detroit, -together
with the Officers, Civil and Military of the
County of Wayne, in the Territory of the U
nited States, north weft of tlie River ©hio.
To his Excellency ANTHONY WAYNE, Efy.
Major General, and Cjmrnander in Chief
of the Army of the United. States.
SIR,
Your arrival at this Post, produced amongst -us
» general'fatisfaflion—having learnt your ftuldeo
departure for Philadelphia, we would think our
selves deficient in «iir duty, were we not to offer
you our sense of gratitude for all the favors, we have
received from you—we feel the honor you have
conferred upon us, in permitting our county to be
called by your name.; and we embrace this opportu
nity to afiure yotir Excellency that you have iiiXpi
red 11s with those grateful sentiments which dutiful
children entertain for the beftof fathers—you have
been an eye witntfs ot our xcal and attachment to
the Government of the United States ; of our joy
in becoming united to ci izeni,frec and grnerous\ we.
have not Jolt a moment in putting in operation both
civil and military authorities, and adopting and o
beying the lawseftablilhed by government. We
hope Sir, that you will be pleased to inform the
Prefidenr of the United States of our situation, that
you will be our advocate, to intersft him, in our
favor. May you be bleflcd with a lucky passage a
cross the Lake ; enjoy a perfett health and receive
froift Government, the reward you are so justly en
titled to for your great services, your fuceeffes,
and your toils; and may the Almighty grant us the
favor of feeing you here agai-. to compleat the
happiriefs of ua all, is the fincete.with of
Tour Excellency's m»(l obedient,
and very humble fervanu.
s Signed by the Cure aad others.
Detroit, Nov. 14, 1797.
To the Cure and Inhabitants of Detroit, and ths
Officers, Crvil and Military of the County of
Wayne.
Gentle msk,
I haxe received with much pleafor* your polite
iddrefs of this date, which not only demands my
grateful acknowledgements for the flattering tefti
inoiucs it comains-of youi esteem ; but affords me
an opportunity to remark with what pleasure 1
have observed the general fatisfaaion, which has
appeared to prevail among the citipena of Detroit,
and its neighborhood, upon the tflablifhment of the
government of the United States ; and the alacrity
and laudable dtfirs they havc.evinced, to.pro»iate
the due execution theresf j a condii® so wife,
whilst it merits the warm regard of their fellow-ci
trzens of the Uaien, must ensure to themselves all
ihe advantages which will flow fr«m and be the na
tural effect ot the adminiftratioa of govt! law*, uh
dci so happy a government.
I will with much pleafare communicate to the
rrehdent, the warns fenrsmentj of zeal and attach
ment, which yon haveexpreffed towards the govern
ment or the United States.; and I cannot permit
myieli 10 depart from hence, without assuring you,
that 1 (hall always takes peculiar interest in whate
ver is ay contribute to promote the happiness and
profparity of this county, to which my naote has
the honor to be attached. •
I have the lie Nor to be Gentlemen,
With much efteeK,
Your molt ehedient,
And very huaible Servent,
„ j . ANT*. WAYNE.
Head Quarters, 1
Detroit, 14H1 Nov. 1796. j
Three foil heufes will f ure | y have suggested to the
Jd ll^, rs ' , w! ' at was v.-a*ti»g at the theatre. They
WW? b " n tau sht to know, by many thin ones
—ot what there was too mwfk.
tJi i, S !f ,d , tth at.t i*? 7 another novelty in (lore, hut
» c the Dublic lf l they Wlll try how far ,hc P Jt ' e "cc
edlv fiifd-hemfV co " nte£i on, they may UMexped
menMHll u" 3t th " poim ' at wWh r4nt
pafl indulgence ° U ' '° 1 b ? < he of its
SNUB.
CO jbUV h " rd mUCh ° f f P ie '
a iS'ex raft r ns V aUOnB - Allowing is J
mittee of fr- m the . ra P J . rt the French com- |
I | "We have agents-ill ejrery part of F.uro>p?__ w
(have ageotf even in America, from w - | r **
she plots of the from ihe colonics a^d
i the envoys from '!>e European courts." <« Tj."
j is as it were an echo in Europe, and this echo r *
peats to the committee every .political fyflem a J n—"
ed in Europe." P"
These confcfii®n» are very candid. The f A
are perfc&ly in the charaAer of the nation. p er *
haps no nation ob earth take the fame pains and
equally fuccefsful, in worming out the secrets of
other people. The following anecdotes are told
in private circles.
When the negoction of 1783 was pend.W ,h-
Bntifh minister, Mr. Oswald, 1 0 * hi, papcrfco,,.
tainißg hu inftruaions. They were taken out of ,
hrt bureau, the locked. Mr. Ofwaid told Mr lay
his papers were gone, and asked him how he ,
trivea tofecure his papers. Mr. Jay replycd, he
Pt tllem IXI a pocket within his coat, usder hU
arm, and when he went to bed, he laid them un.
.er him. But fays Mr. Jay, ye u need t ive y OUr .
leit no uneabnefs about the papers; the French
wimfter has them doubtless and is taking copies
—ana when he has done this, the papers will b"
returned to their place. Accordingly, a ft er two
or three days, the papers were replaced in the bu
reau, and the bureau locked aCufual.
V\ hat led Mr. Jay to his conclusion, was, a
knowledge of similar tricks before. During the
war, and while Mr. Jay was in Spain, a certain pa.
per r/as sent by him to thefecretary for foreign as.
fairs in America. The paper arrived fafe. Mot long
after, it was miffing for several days, k then refiored
fafely to ltj piacc. A few months after, and the fir/t
that Mr. Jay beared of it, the French minister in-
Spain showed him a copy of it. A clerk in the
office of foieigu affairs had been bribed, it was
supposed, to obtain the paper for the French minis.
ter in Philadelphia, who copied it, sent back the
original, and a copy to France ; from whence is
was sent to the French minister in Spain.
, A 7. J'. Min.
New Theatre.
-~ — <
ON WEDNESDAY-EVENING, February S,
Will be presented, (for ch« fourth time) an Hiftoricil
Flay, called
' Columbus;
Or, A WORLD DISCOVERED.
WITH NEW SCENERY, MACHINERY, DRESSES
AND DECOJSATiONS.
Tne raufic composed by Mt Reinagle.
Tlie proceiEons and Pageant b,y Mr. Byrne.
In this Play the manners and customs of Mexico and
Peru characterize the tirft discovered njtions of America.
Such deviation from Historical truth was deemed nece:L: •
for drsmatic offed, and has enabled the author to imn*
duce the pathetic Tale of CORA ,awj> ALONZO, irora
Marmontel's Incas.
The PROLOGUE.wiII be Ipoken by Mr. Wiciuii.)
SPANISH PARTY.
Columbus, Mr. Cooper
Alonze, .Mr. Moretcn
Harry Herbert, Mr. Wignell
Dodtor Dolores, Mr. Banvoad
Bribon, Mr. Francis
lioldan, Mr. Fox
Valverdo, Mr. Hurley
Motcofo, Mitt —
- " Mr. M"JJon*ld
ill Spaniard, , Mr. Darlcy y \^
3d Spaniard, Mr. Morgan
INDIANS. \ i
Orozimbo, Mr. Warren
Solatco, ( Mr. VEJlranre
Catalpo, Mr. Warrell
Cuto, Mr. f.WarrM
Cora, Mrs. Merry
kelti, Mr«. Francis
Pricftefles of the Sun, \ JJ™. range
, , < Mrs. Mcchtlcr, Int.
Indian Women,—Mrs Harvey, Mrs. poflor, Mifi Mil
.bouf« AliUOJdfield. Mis. L Eltrange, Mis, Halo, Mil*
Anderfon.apd M'clle Sophie.
In a& t.
A PROCESSION OF JNDJAN*, and the firft ' *
Landing of Columbus.
« ~ Q. . .
AT lON OF A ST OHM AND £ARTHOVAKI?•
VVKha Grand Eklftion fiom a Vowa.vJ.
In aft
A March of Saciuhci, and-Proceffion to the E*ecutio»
of Cora.
The whole to conclude with A GRAND PAGEANT
Ihe fee tie of the Volcano dsfigned by J. Richards,
Elq. a. A. principal Scent Painter to Covtnt-Gardcn
i heatre.
The reft of the-S« W r--ch.Cg n ed by Mr. Milbourne.
and the whole executed by him and under his direc
tion.
Machinist, Mr. LentbalL
The dresses dpfigned by Mr. Gibbons.
To which wil! be added,
A FARCE, called
Love a-la-Mode;
Or, THE HUMOURS OF THE TURF.
[Written by Charles Macklin, Ef« ]
Sir Calaghau O'Bralighau Mr. Warren *
Sir Archy M'Sarcafm Mr. Bates -
Squire Groom Mr . Harivood
Beau Mordec*. Mr . p ra , uij \
bir I hcodore Goodchild Mr. Warrell *
Servant , Mr. Mitchell
Charlotte Mrs. Hartvy
P^' lc are rcfpe<9ful]y informed, that the new
comedy of "I lie Way to get married is in preparation.
and wi" be speedily brought forward ; after wh.ch Co- 9
iumbus will neccflariiy fee laid aside.
Box OneDolbr twen V -fl ¥c cents. Pit Seven Eighth.
a Dollar and Gallery, halt a dollar.
te !l " at Hook-liore.
Thea s tr l ' " th ' ° ffice the
ladies aiid Gentlemen arc requested to fcrd their
Jervants to Kceppbies a quarter before 5 o'clock, and
as as cofnpany are feattd, to
with'traw, is they cannot on any account be permit,
ted to remain. r
Ihe Doors of the Theatre will open at 5. a*d the
Curtain rife precisely at 6 o'clock.
Places for the Boxes to ue taken at the Office in the
front of the theatre, from 10 tUI a o'clock, and from
10 till 4 on the days of performance. '
; *VIP~AT RpSPUBf jr,/l'
AL 1. f RSO N S
TNDEETED to the Eflatc of the late David Kilwnidt,
X Esquire, either by note, bill, bond, book account, or
it f u 'l. Jre to make immediate t»
the iubfenbers, without delay, and allpcrfon.havi„ ?a n r
just demands aga.nft said hltate, are d,fired >• exhibit ihe
lame for adjuftrucnt.
ANN ICENNEDY > Adm'x.
pv , .... c FRANCIS JOHNSTON j Mmr.
Philadelphia, Fsbruary 8Philadelphia, February 8.
This day agreeable to the Constitution, both I
Ho:ifes of Congress met in Convention in the Re
presentatives Chamber, f# r the purpose of count- j
ing the votei of the Electors for the several Hates
for Prefideat of the United States, when it appeared
that there were for JOHN ADAMS, Vice Prefi- i
dent of the United State 9, and PrefiJent qf* the
Senate, seventy one votes, and for THOMAS I
JEFFERSON, sixty-eight votes.
Whereupon the. Vice President, pursuant ts joint
vote 6f both Hotifes, pafled the present fefiion,
declared, JOHN ADAMS, Preside.it of the
United States; and THOMAS JEFFERSON,
Vice Prefident—for four yeart commencing the
fourth of March next. .
*«* 1" the paragraph, immediately, preceding
the from Gov; Adams's fpeach in yefter- i
day'c paper, for Corporals, read " Consuls". '
STOCKS. '
Six per <
Three per Cent. ...... . '
Ah per Cent. - - . :
Si per Cent. ..... ... t
Deferred Six per Cent. .... ufy a
SANK United States, ... itperct 1
• Psnnfylvania, - . j, ,j 0
— North \merica, .... - 4 o do f
Infurame Comp. N. A. fliares, - a , per et . t
—— Pennfylv par
On Monday last the fpllowing gentlemen were h
elected by the Stockholders ofthe Bank of Pennfyl- •"
jama, Direflors, on their part ofi that institution
for the current year—
Samuel Howell, Jolyi C. Stocker, Robert Ral- si
flon, Joseph P. Moths, Philip Nicklin, William r<
Montgqmery, James Vanuxem, Godfrey Haga,
George Plumlied, William Sanfom, Matthew
Lawler, Thomas Norton, Thom*s L Moore, P J
George Per.nock, J»hn Brown, Jehu Hqllingf- I 1
worrtr Edward Pennington, Jacob Baker, James *
■> Strawb.idge.
The following were elected by the Legislature on tu
the part of the State. gr
Samuel M. Fox, Kearny Wharton, William 2C
Mil'er, Charles Biddle, Jacob Morgan, George a 1
Bickham-
Yesterday at a meeting of the Stockholders, {J*
Samuel Mickle Fox, Esq. was unanimously chosen afe (
President. jy,
A gentleman who came passenger in the Packet, rei
fays that the substance of the following account P 0!
was published in the English papers, viz.
On Lord Malmefbury's approach to Paris, the W '
PoifTardes and populace of that city iffiitd fortJi to " h '
meet him ; and. at a considerable distance from the ma
city, took the horses from his carriage, and drag, in i
ged him in triumph to Patis. ° of
This is a corroboration of the opinion that the hil!
• Sovereignpetple of Fianee eagerly pant for peace. f. iie
Netu Market Hall, Feb. 6, 1797. '" a
At a dated meeting of the Hope Fire Company
of Philadelphia,
presented by publication to the Infurancel Company
cf North America, and ftich other citizeus as have ,
generonfly made donations to company, by
which they have been enabled to procurc a com. """
pleat new: Fire Engine.
And that the thanks of the meeting be also pre-
fented to the of the First Piefbyteri
an Church of this City, for their grant of the use
®f a lot on Pine Street, for the purpose of ctefiing 1"
an Engine House thereon. ! dvo
Extrafl from the minutes, '! ''
A. MUSGRAVE, Sectary.
.. t Frem the Daily Advfktisl'R.
1 The gay ujfem^iy 1 ! smyefl room raitc
, but the upper Jlory to the tomb™
( Men imp so fajl, ere life's mid Jlmge -we tread,
IT ' f° m ' "y fr'endt a'.ive ai dead."
i is- due to the public curiosity, so strongly excited by
the late awful events in Mr Andrew Brown's family, to
£ivea narrative of such of them as can be collected.
Mr. Brown, his wife, and George hi* fori, were at the
Circus on 1 Hrfday evening, the a6th ult A sudden in
dir^6tH>n of Mr.. Brown, obliged them to retire before
the perlormancej were terminated. On their return home ! T
it an<! children went to bed bef»re tcn o'clock. 'w_ , 1
. r ? W T rtmalned ' n the front office writing 'til! near
eleven o clock. He had a cuitom of keeping large quan' ! !° E '
SA™ A c r 3Ck rart ° f the ! * thifeir'cum- I» ™
cau ion ar 'i! J r " m What he con « ivcd prudent 'pre- . T
f.. .": l y bak 'y owing the deftrudlion of his family : the .
" '% he ! , 'he log which he raked up, was, by 1 I u s
Bteans of the afhc behind, kept so far forward a, to eaule }
It, when it broke m the middle, to fall on the floor where } the '
ic tre caug.it some of the loose papers, which in general C"
laj too carelcfsly scattered there.
(oonllZ Vil nu,y ', " " V kcI y (hat the fire commenced «
■ ret,rc ' bcd !™d that it fprcad slowly for werc
want ol air to nonrifh it. werc
Mr. Brov. n rofc about 5 o'clock, and quicbly found die ' " Cr ' 1
P riloui i)W«ion of his family and fortune. His firll step !to '/<
«vas to call loudly t" Mrs. Brown, and the reft of the fa- way
Tb r 'ma r" d !a ' ;e cart of themselves. Then, with ; fion,
the .-'ffiftarce of a white a;,. 1 black fcrvant, and an appren- but 1
tier, he (.ffayefl to eitmguifh the flames, by quantities of ;- f ■
water hrou;;nt from a neighboring pump. In this ineffec- '
tual attempt they fponi about eiglit or ten minutes; but the cxecl
frefh au- tnat ruflied through the street door, and thence have
into that of the office, added such fury to the 'till then dor- thino
mant flames, that they forced a pjfTage throngh the o.Tice
■window and through the deling, ciofe by the bed-cham- r i
let door ihence they seized the stair cast, between the " '
ih id (lory, whence a solid column of fire and out d
smoke lfuied upwards, atid into the adjacent rooms. ite al
In the interim, Mrs. Brown, on the firft alarm, started I molt
, f ' f ld > "ndrefled as (he was, ran down stairs. Her !r, f„
Mary, had likewise come down. Alarm- ! f PV
ing as were appearances at this time, the danger did not ! thc L
seem.by any mean, so imminent as it really was. It wa« 1 advic <
judged, as the fare was then confined to one room, that It
A V' me t0 tV " y and r«f on a few should
tier T n,ot,ve had weight with the fond mo- ! f ur fu
j Two or n hcr children were flill above flairs, and in j
danger ot periimg : two highly laudable inducenTe,ts, !
therej.re, female dehcacy, and parental a/Tcflier, com- I
t0 im P c i Mrs. Brown to ascend tfeofe flair, which she Th
was never to dtfeend with life. | r
Ai: this occurred between the firft discovery of the' "m*
A n ' l " :ngnt o{ "» forcing a palTage up 1 5
wands. Mrs, Brown had dressed herfelf and Bet fey,
and with that child was at the room door of the SlCll,a
third ltoryj v hen the irresistible torrent of devour- to , ' lt;
Wg flames and smothering smoke ruflied torward, d.fcn^
a m "" inlUnt hurried her into eternity. and f,
*
J
PP r - p --j pppe's J ,ntiiuonj) in agfe <.fan 'nteftir.c lufurrtift&n
• an 1,0,1 t,r f° r "ial atttick of the French. But
ie the holintfs, d<;fiioui_nf counteracting the prrjjfts
ndow, . conspirators, havi ig rtqtieftec his ma
. He J e ". v » ,n 1 Inter written wiih hia own hand, to
.'ay bv march 10,000 troops into the papal territory im
w, to mediately, the king of Naples has fignified <4 the
-oi- pope in his answer, which reached ihis place the
lhirt h e f°re yesterday, that complying with hii re
que l, he had ordered the regiments of the queen
: His ant) Pu g' ia . with two battalions of volunteers, to
)f the | f l ®®' 1 to 'J** by Tronto ; and the royal
broke Italian regiment, two regiments of national volun
mger- teers, two battalions of chasseurs, the regiment' of :
j. horse Rofliglionc, and two battalions of can- i
rl£; ni> " C< '" t0 P'Oveed thi-her by Ricti. All these '
ita«ch'v| tro "P* •''re ahcady , n raociow, and ijie road of Ce- I
tehfy 1 P ,an ° 'fcl'kewife 4)j eparing with'fhe utiHolf speed I
tar the paflage of a column of militia.
s en-
I, lie VENICE, O(Sober 26. [
J „igh 'Re Algiers ha » dctlareu .var against oui r
/here .r, . a
;areft j . * 5 ' :£:cbr *ted Paeha of Scutari, who has ex
,-ered j l,<rd '° nuic " notice for fifteen years part, has been I
ie he defeated and killed in an aflion againfl the Monte- I
snrn-, negrines.
P;rts FLORENCE, No*. 5.
louse" : D rhe t' ng ° f . Nap ' Cß said to, ' ave !"Cormc<i the f
Wm Pope, I hat lie will not tatify the Treaty cenclnded a
into I b *". twfen W5 1 M France, befote the/direaory (hall il
j evince a difpobtion t» conclude likewise an equita
f the ble peace with his helii.fcf,, by the king's mediati- ft
rifh- on It „ reported, that the Fiench republic ha, it
. resolved in consequence to recommence the negoci- ei
low on, wlth J k ' P«P« «pon more moderate terms, in
>eat, havc taken poffefljon of the Cc
, dto illand of Capraja, by their commissioner Sanaui
nette. & q
1 her PARIS, 1 Frimaire, Nov. 21. C
, a P' p ne g°Cu£ions with Portugal appear to be fuf- t ]
,he m 1! 1 •,f' aCU^ i ° n of Cjfr '" has r P"*d gr«»t joy at
jell | AWiciljes. The merchants of that place flatter them
elves, that the Engl,i> pofltifing nf> port in the medi- tu
l" here their fleets can take fljelter, qr whi- re
non ther they can carry their prizes, will repafs the (freights th
eat eipetia iy at this stormy wihter season, and allow the ftc
lat 'ench merchants to resume fume ailivitv, in the Le
vant trade. A nutii er of vefTels are already arrived J
„si. 111 tlut port from Genoa. The peace concluded with ,
de- the kingof Naples willalfo again open a dircfl trade
j ng with Sicily, which, dnring the war, haj ceen'carried wl
hi s on through the Oenoefe. These commercial advan- vci
ur tages will be atteoded with a political advantage, still ra'
de- m °T e 'mportant, namely, that r-ommercc and indnftry no
will give employment to "a great namber of idlers, „
led "O) _™r want of opportunities to employ themfelvcs .•
the in a uieful way, give tjlemfelves up to reyolutionizinp
hat jpcculations. /he torrent, which has so long- over
ltSj fl. wed its banks, will at length resume its wonted r «f
an, <-*oi>ne, ( — eX j
ce , Die news of an armistice having been concluded be- coi
„ re tween Cienei-al Moreau and the Archduke Charles, i« t h f
jri, premature. K
>nt , ' hey now talk of coUe<Sling the relics of the Bata-
Jn vi..,1 navy Jor a new expedition ; but it will be diffi
cult to finj sailors toman the fliips. On the exchange ts
. at Amilerdam t'hey are very untafy about t'ue fit tuition
of u e colony of Surinam.
A letter states, that cn the 6th inft. I
about 50 velfeU hom Lcgho.n, and the coalts to
of Italy, entered that harbor. Ten paflengers, men 0 f
and women, were taken before the central board, te •
have their papers verified, As they had no passports, '
I'- weie emigi ants. They will be
te 'o the criminal tribunal of.Aix.
LiiUrs troni Venciome, dated 27th Brumaire, an- naa
rt noi"uce to us two import, nt ji »gments of the high on
C 6 T!,' C> t,,e fil !i ' f has admitted 13 the
clia.lenges of the granJ jurifcout of 24, made by,the (
" accuiea: by rbelecond it has rejected a requeftof Ba- pi
It bccut, wishing the evidence of foiir prisoners to be fj 0
" ru in America, Conlfantinople and Algiers.
re Ihe court adjourned till the 29th, for the pwrpofe of and
p r ei'enting to the accused a general lift of the high jur the
she tribunal of c .flation has received *a charge a- 0 f (
gjinii Frcron, relative to a crime which he committed t
while he was pro-consul in the south. Freron is rora- .
> prehoided in the law of the 3d Brumaire, because his ®
mother is an emigrant, and he is godlon of Staniflags,
king of Poland, and duke of Lorrain. fifln
T he famous Antonelle .was arretted the day before
yeiterday, at 7 o'clock in the evening. His defliny is C
j molf capricieus one. He was iinpriforted in 1792 by car)l
La Fayettein the citadel of Sedan ;iu 1794 by Robe- \
ipierre in the Luxembourg ;in 1795 by the Thermi- ,
donans in the prifen of the Rue des Orties: iu 1706 , r
c] at Vendome by the CijnAitutionalilis."—Where will he on
|. be Jii 1797 / van ,
\ BRUSSELS, Nov. 7. " Maj
Oeneral Werneck, who has the command ef the yet
t corps of troops polled between the Sicg and the T
« Lahn, has fallen back with a pan of his forces be- tain
t bind that rivet, a»d bis head quarters are atSu- by t
ally at Limbourg. B
All the magazines of provision* and ammunition with
I'd >nging to the enemy are befween the Lahn and Orat
[ the Main, £veiy where multitudes of pioneers j St
_ work night and day, conftru£iing formidable bat the 9
1 teries and enttencliments. The Imperialilts have, SI
"otwi'hltanding, Hill two small camps on this fide fori
the Lahn. takei
. The corps commanded by Gen. Kray, reckoned Tl
, a bout 30,600 ft rung, >9 polled from Wallendan
and BendorfF t® Eili h. Almoll every night this the p
corps of the army is under arms. ~ ====
1 he Imperialills are eonltrudting numerous bat
teries along the left bank'as far as Leyderfdroff.— #
Ihe fortrefs of Ehrenbreitftein is provisioned for
more than Tix months.
We are nffured that the plan of the Archduke
Charles, is immediately to take the fort of Kehl, The!
and after having entirely cleared the left bank ef
the Upper, immediately to del'cend the Lower
Rhine with a corps of 25 or 30,000 good troops,
and not to go into winter quarters till he fhal! have
taiten Duffeldorff. These plans are very fine, but
the array of the Sambreand MeXife is there to op
pose some obdacles to it. I g n <
Ihe inhabitants of Neuwied have obtained leave cm phfi
from the imperial general to obtain provifious when l :ci
1 hey want them, from places occupied by the 1m- I ftr—,'.'
perialifls. Ttiofe inhabitants, far whom tfee ma-"'Half a
filtrates will answer, may go wheraver their affairs 7i
may eall them. The Republican Generals have
lOideuted on their part to this arrangement. s
F \ ii IS, 1 j.
We learn by a letter faam Genoa, dated the 22d '
01 tbst tbii Reputlit has at length deter- FeUr
#
nn'ne.J to conclmle 1 tr«sty with tlu* F.ench Dirff,
But tory, by which it hopes to ward of the mpfl immiV
(jjfts nert dangeis that threaten it at the piefent rpjj
5 ma menf
d, to The Republic confenti to pav four millions an'l
y tm- a half lives Toi|rnois to France, half of which is to
o- the be inflantly paid infperie, and the reft at an ap,
: the pojnted time. The French Government engages,
s re- on its part, to renaunce all claims on tu
|ueen forget what ha« pafTcd during the present war, and
s, to ""t to trouble the G l * n °efewiih auy future demands,
royal If we are to credit foine of <>nt public prints,
jlun the fleet at Brest, composed of 17 fliips of the lira
it' of and 14 frigates, hon th» point of failing, Admi
can- ral Villarei and Gen. Hoche are alone entrulled
these with the secret of the expedition. It is alfs said,
Ce- that the pott has been blocked up for some days
peed past by an Et'gHfh fq,„d r o n ps j 2 fliips. Letter*
from Bred, however, give a very different account,
They ftatc, that the expedition is not only delayed,
but that ic is entirely laidafide. General Hoche is
our returned to Reuses, to expedite the trial of thafe
accused of attempting to a:Taflinate him.
1 ex- We hear ftbm Vienna, that the mariiage of the
3ff n Archduke Charles with the Princess Royal of
"te- France is abfolu'ely fixed on.
I he Fiench offi er sent to Vienna as a courser #
from the Direa<iry, set cut for
the - arisl ths 2 ift of 06tober. It is generally believed
ded at Vienna , that a general Congrefg for Peace will
hill immediately t.'ke place.
iita- Letters received at Rati{b#n the 2sth of October
an- from Vienna, agree in Hating, that the further raif
has ing «f recruits in the Auftriaa provinces has bee«
3ci- entirely fufper.ded by the Emperor's order. This
rns. intelligence has again revived the hopes of the friendf
the to peace. ,•
! u '" "1 he Tribunal de la Seine yesterday acquitted
Citizeß Thoin, provisional goaler of the Abbaye
fuf h"' 0 / 1 lnd Pa l tc ' accufcd as having been privy (9
the eficape of Drouet.
at LONDON, November 14.
:m- e ate °f Italy is of a most itjterefting n».
di- tute « at) d exhibiis political myftcries which cannot
hi- remain/ long undisclosed. AH the accounts frum
hts that country agree in dating, that wbilft one mini
e det of the king of Naples was negotiating a trea
•ed ° f c , 3 . cc Wlt . h tl,e f'«ch repurlic at Paris, anoi
ith ! r" j!" ina j eft y'« ministers negociated a treaty
tde 0 1 ' defenfive alliance with the Pope, <
ied whole domn.ions the republican generals had recei
in. ved orders to attack. If the king of Naples should
ill ratify the treaty with France, he must of course re
-1 y nounce that which he has coacluded with the Pope,
" be '"S con J trar y to neutrality flipulated in the
ng :" rm f r !nd m " ™ r f*- We should not winder,
:r- p "»", convinced of the danger to which 1
ed republican invasion of the ecclesiastical Hate would
expose hit own dominions, and which might be
>e- nornc tnuol* more pernicious to his kingdom than
the prosecution of the war, should rsfufe to ratify
the treaty signed at Paris, unless the con-
H- dd,a froa » on the EccJeliaftiea)
BAL I [MORE, February 4.
li' , 9-' Pt ' Buchillla "oft h .s port, bound.
Its to the Weft Indies, was captured the beginning
» ! " ,d
'c _ NASSAU, (N. P.) December 13.
Ihe bngantine Frieiidflnp, Arnott, from Exu.
n. ma torjLondon, was cast away the 22 d of last mosth
;h on a ledge of rocks, ofT the south-cast end of Elea.
3 tncra -part of the cargo is saved
»- p, Q " last m °" ,h ' the Sooner Molly,
)£ Plomwright cf 1 appafcannock, was aw V eo
5< Henranga. Iwo of wreckers fell in with ber.
#f and have saved the crew, and cosliderable part of
j r the cargo, confining of flour,
a most '"son.We supply
of 600 brfrels of flour, in a vessel from Savannah.
From the vessel wrecked.on H.neaga, above ,oo
• s barrels are saved,
i, two parcels form a quantity equal to the
eanfumption of this place for nearly two month,.
m J r, .. December 16.
is On Wedncfday, his majesty's ship Prevovante
y captain Wemyfs, Tailed on a cruise. '
; Yesterday the armed fchoonei May Flower, ten
s der to his majefty'g {hip Porcupine, arrived here
e from a cruise, with a Spamfh brig bound from Ha.
vanna to Campeachy, and a Spanish sloop. The
May Flower alio captured a polacre, which is not
c yet gome in,
: This morning hi, majefly's /loop Swallow, cap.
* ,ttU e ned f :° m a Cru>ife ' a «o ra panje4
by the following Spanish veffelsr r
Barque St. Domingo, frem Cadiz for Havanna,
, with a valuable cargo, cut out the jnflant, from
Orange harbor in Cuba. '
1 Guai ;* oupe » a guarda cofla, taken
the 7th lnltant at sea.
Sloop Santiflima Tri«ida<? from Port a Principe
jj l \' e Sw ° ll ° w > "ICo, on the 9 tb, took a schooner
, .^ a Dok "" es . which w 3 s giveji on the 1 ith to
;f.e prisoners, to carry thetn to Cuba.
College-Li ail.
» Readings <ancj Rbcitations
Morot, Critical, and Entertaining. '
On THURSDAY, February, 9th,
Tl will be delivered
TheEffca,i of PRIDE, AMBITION & REVENGE,
Exemplified In the chara«sler of
Satan,
AND THE FALL OF MAN
Aad contrafl edjwjth the effe&s of
DIVINE LOVE,
In the Redemption of Man
As difplaved by Milton, '
* «•
:S;rK;
Particular Teneriite Wine.
50 Quarter-Calks Particular Tenerlffe \U.vp
■a r1 v ° f 3 fu P erior
Bor sale by A . MARFLEV IS, IV. hoRRI Sy
February 8 N °'. 60 ■ D °^: ilrc "'
1 wtfcmutTreasury Department,
September
XTOTICE is hereby given, that pro|>oial* will he re- s~
JLN ceived at the office of the Secretary of th« Troaiury
until the expiration of the firil day of March next en
suing, for thefupply of ail ration* which may herecjuirca
for the ufc of the Umted States, from the iirlt day ot
June, 1797, 10 the thirty-firfi day of May, 1798, both'
days inclusive, at the places and xyithin the diftricU here
after mentioned, viz. Jit Ofwego; zt Niagara ; at
Pjefque lfle; at Sandufky Lake, 2nd on irandufcy
Riv»»r; at Detroit; at Michilimaclunac; at Fort-Frank-
lin, it Pittsburgh ;at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hamilton;
at Fort St. Clair ; at Fort-Jsffcrfon; at Grenville; at
Picque Town and Loraniics Store; at Fort Adams; at
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance ; at any place b4ow Fort
Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Eric; at Fort
Steuben ; at Fort Mafiac ; at awy place from Fort Maflac
to the south boundary of the United States on the river
' MilTifippi; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiatanon. j.j-
If fuyplies (hall be required ior any post* or Jlfcccs not
mentioned in this notice, all such supplies (hud be mr-
niflied at prices proportioned to thoie to be paid at the
posts before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed or. ,
between the United-States and the Contra&or.
The rations to be fupnlied arc to consist of the iOl
lowmg articles, viz. .
One pound two ounces, of bread 4r flour.
One pound two oftnees of bed", or fourteen ounces ot
pork or bacon. _ j
Half a gill of rum, brandy rr whifloey.
One quart and half a pint of fait. K I
Two quarts of Vinegar, ( ' hundred rations
Two pounds of Soap, ( c
One pound of Candles, J
The radons are to be furniftjed in fach quantities, as that
there ftiall at all times during the bt fulfioient exl
fcr the consumption of the troops at Michilimackinac, De- tii
troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, ier the term of iix month- in vii
advance, and at each of tpc other polls, for the term ot N<
at least three months in advance, in good and wholesome Ca
provifio:is,if thefame stall be required. It is to be unJJ Ui
der flood, that the Contra&or is to be at ihe exfence and sts
rifle of ifluirgfhe supplies to the troops at each poll, and
that aU lolTes sustained by the depredations of an enemy, or 3-
"by means of the troop* of the United States, shall be paid
for at the price of the art id • captured or destroyed, on
the depositions of two or n*orc persons of creditable cha
racters, and the certificate of a coramiflioncd officer,,as
certaining the circumltances of the iofs, and the amount at)
of tbi ai ticles for which compensation shall be claimed
OLIVER WOLCOTT^
Secretary of the Treasury.
lawtMf
Porcupine's Gazette.
Proposals by WILLIAM COBBETT, opposite Christ
CHurch, Philadelphia, for publishing a news-paper,
to be entitled
Porcupine's Gazette, <sf Daily Advertiser.
Methinks 1 hear the reader exclaim ; " Whaj ! ha*e
vit not Gazettes enough already !" Yes, and far too F c
n-.any : but those that we have, are, in general, con
duced in such a manner that their great number, in
fteadof rendering mine unneeeffary, is the only cause
that ctlls for its establishment.
The gazettes in this country have done it more realm
jury than all its open enemies ever did or can do. They
mislead the people at home and misrepresent them a
broad. It was these vehicles of sedition and discord
that encouraged the counties in the Welt to rebel ; it
was they that gave rife to the depredations of Britain,
by exerting the people to such atfts of violence against
that nation, as left no room to doubt that we were de
termined on war ; and it was they, when an accom
modation had been happily effeiSled, that flirred up an
eppofition to it such as has seldom been witnessed, and
■which was overcome by mere chance. These gazettes
it was, that, by mifrcprefenting the dispositions of the
people, encouraged the French to proceed from one
degree of insolence to another, till at last their Minis
ter braves th« Prefideot in his chair, and a bullying
commander comes and tells us that his only business is
to seize our vessels, in violation of a treaty,, in virtue
of which alone he claims a right! to enter our parts : and ™
it \i these gazettes that now have the impudence to de-
fend what their falfehood and malice have produced. of
I (ball be told that the people are -to blame ; that
they are not obliged to read these abominable publica
tions. But they jo read them j and thousands who J
read them, read nothing else. To fupprjfs them is im- J
pofliWe j they will vomit forth thejr poiion ; it is a pri- S<
vilege of their natures, that no law can abridge ; and
therefore the only mode left is, to counteraA its effects.
This must be dose, too, in theirown way. Books, at
or periodical publications 'in the form of books, may
be of some service, but are by no means a match for j"
their flying folios. \ falfeboori that remains uncontra- *■
difted for a month, begins to be looked upon as a truth,
and when the dete&ion at last makes its appearance, it
is often as useless as that of the doctor who finds his
patient expired. The only method of pppofition, then,
ie to meet them on their own ground ; to set foot to
foot ; dispute every, inch and every hair's breadth;
fight them at their own weaponsj and return them two
blows for one' , r-
A gazette of this (lamp is what I have long wilhed to
fee, but I have wished and «xpe<3ed it in vain. Indig-
nation at the fupinenefs of others has at last got th?
better of all diffuUnce in my own capacity, and has dc-
termined me to encounter the talk. People have heard b(
■one fide long enough ; tliffy (hall now hear the other. r j
CONDITIONS.
x. Porcupme's'Giyette (hf.ll be of the efual size, p
and the fubicription Eight Dollars a year, to be paid at e ,
the expiration cf eac-h half ye^r.
i. Advertisements will be infected at half the nfual ai
price, which will be required in ready money, c
3. The Censor, containing those pieces from the &
gazette that may appear worth preserving in a more
portable form, with such amplifications and amend- ft
mcnts as time may give rife to, (hall be publiihed tl
month'y, and each fubferiber (hall be entitled to a copy,
delivered with his paper at the end of the month*
4. If a fufiicient number of fubferiber* be obtained .
the firft number of the Gazette (hall appejr on, or be
fore the sth of March.
N. B. A fnhfeription took is now open at my fhopj l
opposite Christ-church, whitfher gentleintnin the coun- J
trv, who with to i'ubferibe, arc r-equeftedto fend their (1
names. s
SubscriptionS are taken at Boston by Mr. James White, f
beokfeHer ; at Salem, by Mr. Debeny, post-master ; ■ h
at New-Haven by Mri Beers, bookieller ; at Newbu- c
ry-port. by Mr. £. Blunt, bookseller ; at Nev/-York, -
by Mr. S. Campbell, bookseller ; at Baltimore, by Mr. r
G. Hill, bookseller; at Chester-town, Maryland, by' v
Mr. James Arthur, post-master; at Eafton, do. by *
Mr. Greenburv Nea-1; at Frederrk-town, do. by '
Messrs. Isaac and John Mentz ; at Richmond, Vi-rg.
by Messrs. Pritchard and Sividfon : at Norfolk, by '
Messrs. Rainbow and Hannah j and at Charlellon, by •
Mr. Young, bookseller. .
Jan. 2%. emo». ,
A Maniitadtory FOR SALE.
A valuable SOAP aod CANf)LE Manufactory, fnuate J
in t cußvenirm part of thir ciiv ; the works almott ww,
on an entirely oii?in»l conttiiiflion, and huiltof the Left '
jni-tcn»»«, and miy b- fit to work immediately. Persons
-who with to purchase, are requeued to apply lt No 173,
SoutJ'. Second Street. September 13. t 1 f tf
For Sale,
By the Subscribers —In PENN-S'T REET, , x
6c Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine, old
1 Imported by die Eagle. v
WILLINGS & FRANCIS. ajj
, r w&f , w
Nov. 30 _____ —— his
~~ Brokers Office, and a ;
COMMISSION STORE. ag ;
Ma 6% South Third ftr»et,oppofite the national newßankJ
C A\RiEX- M FROUNCES and JOHN VAN REEH.
O have Entered into cc-partnerpiip, under the firm ol _
CRaONCES & VAN REED, in the tuifineis ol Brokers,
Conveyancers and Commission merchants. They buy and
fell on commission every species ol flock, notes of hand,
bills of exchange, houses an<J lands, &c. . •• ' .in
Monet procured on deposits, &c. &c- all kinds c sta
writin <s in the conveyancing line, done with neatnefsand hal
difttatch ; accounts adjusted, and bocks fettled, m tiu.
moil correA manner. Coßflant attendance willbe given. to
They solicit a lhare of the public (avor ; they are deter ■
mined to endeavour to deserve it. fev
N. B. The utmost secrecy observed. Ur
SAMUEL M. rP AUNCES, 0 f
JOHN VAN REED. im
Phil'd. Aiisrufl f, jyof>. mfcwtf tra
' Will be publifbed, on W&dwfdJJ next, of
BY Melf- Dobfor., Carey, Campbell, Rice, and ihe other oi
Booksellers, price One Dollar and twenty-five cents, elegant
ly printed on wove paper, and hot-prelfed, by John 1 nomp- St:
son 1 lea
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF to
The CONSTITUTIONS of th: Slates, tir
With each other, and with that of the United States:
exhibiting in Tables, the prominent features of eaehCon
■ ftitution, and claffiug tog'ther their mbft important pro-
visions, under the leveral heads of adimniltration s with
Notes and Observations. By William Smith, of South-
Carolina, LL. D and member of the Congress of the
; United States. Dedicated to the People of the United
States. # H
N. B. A few Copies printed on an inferior paper, at ,
3-4thsof a dollar. February 6 mwf cn
| ; FOR^aIET
• About i,600 acres of Land,
WELL lUuatcd, laying on and between Marfli al
and Beech Creeks, Mifflin county, Pensfylvai-U, in p;
four fiparate Patacts. For terms of sale apply to II
Wm. Blackburn,
No. 64, South Sfcond-iirtet
January 26. mwlrf J
By Authority. t
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64, d
Swth SecondJlreei. t<
SCHEME of a LOTTERY, *
» For railing Sixty Thousand Dollars, agrtfably to an Aft of
the Leg.flaiure of Penafylvaaia, paiT&i daring the last
feflion, for building a Stone Bridge over the River 0
» Schuylkill) at the Borough of Readings in the County of v
Berks. DolUrs.
1 Prixe of 20,000 Dollars - «0,000 t]
1 do. of ie,ooo do. - - 10,000 a
3 do. of 5»ooo do. - - - 15,000
4 do. of 2,00© do. - - 8,000 p
I 80 do. of ,000 do. - 20,000
t 39 do. of 500 do. - - *9»50® a
, 80 do. of 200 do. ... 16,090 h
t 100 do. of 100 do. - 20.00© r
300 do. of 50 do. - i 5 a
1 do, of s©o do to be paid the poflef- ) QQ
for f the firft drawn no. £ t ]
. c do. of 3»<Soo do. to be paid pofTeffors) _ _
1 5 of the five last drawn no«{ •f'" 0 * 1
5 9,400 do. o 15 do. : - 141,000 e
t0,05 4 Prizes 300,000 !'
19,946 Blanks
r. . .
s 30,000 Tickets at Ten DoHsts 300,000 11
e All Prizes fliali be paid fifteen days after the drawing is
j fiuilhed, upon the of a pofleflor of a fortunate
licket, fubjaft to a deduction of twenty per cent. The
Drawing will commence as foonws the Tickets are difpoKd 1
of, or of which puUlic notice will be givep. J
1 Philip Miller, Peter Kerjhner, William Witman, &
3 Hiefler, James Diemer, Thomas Dundas, c
. James May, John Otto, John Keim, Daniel Craeff, '
- SebaJTwn Miller, Commissioners.
1 Reading, JjJay the 9th, 1795.
Tickets in the Canal L.ttery, No. », to be had at the
t above office, the earli«ft inlormation of the draw- c
v ing of the Walhington No. 1, and Patterfon Lottery's, '
r are received, and oheck books for examination and regif
tering are kept.
Tickets 111 the above Lottery ta ba had at Mr, Sheri- j
J dan's Race-street, John Hay, North Third-ftrect and
Henry Sw;yer's, German Town.
* _J?"" ary 26 lawtf
Lottery and Broker s Office,
j No. 64, South Second stxsst. h
— «
3' | 'ICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. s, Cor iaW—a 0
X Check Book for e*anoination—and prizes paid in i
the late lottery. f
Check Eooks kept for examination and rigifterinsj, for h
j the City of Walhington, No. a, and Pattefou Lotteries, c
both of which are now drawing—informatioa where a
tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn C
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New- n
' Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public .School Lottery, for b
■ l examination. r
The fubferiber solicits the application of the public t
>1 and his friends, who wife to purchase or fell Bank Stock, t
r- Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands, i
e &c. or to obtain money on deposit of property. *
c *. * AMb 1 ickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for r;
1- sale at 1 en.Dollvrs each, which will be drawn early in "i
d the Sj>rin». ' c
h Wm. Blackburn. J
d Philadelphia, January 16, 1797. mt h
and Lots for sale,
Pi, T> Y the Sufcfcriber, in the tswn of Wefe-Chefter Chef
•* , tCr miles from Philadelphia, on the ereat
lr state-road leading VVeftward- Viz. No. x. A two-llory
Stone Houie the cornur of High and Gayftrect,. 40 feet
C ' h3l r '• ncloding a ver y c orivenient ilorc
; ■ house : the House contains ten wtll-finiflied r«oms a kit- -
u- chen and entry : the Lot is U4 feet front on Oay.ftnU,
k, —equal to any stand in Weft-Cliefter. No. 2. A two-fij
T ' ldioU>i °£* " f«t front, containing eleven
>r Jn ,n fi l ; cd T'T' be,R 2 cci!ed in the garrets, house '
yy and lot fame depth as the other, a kitchen, &c._odhrs :
DV *" r both houses, with good ftahlei on the lots. Thc'e I
g- alm ° ft den£ ty e °° d Workme °.
jy " . f "' y nGr ' N r °-3- A Lot 4X feet front. No. 4,
by , 34 No " 44 feet. No. fr, 119 feet, all of them
toi rods deep. On two of the above are eroded three log
who e ra TnH f H a W v, ftori " h '° h ' cella » «<>der th!
wnole, and a small liable to each*
'i he above Lots are situated near the Court-Hcufe. The
b ? PUBUC S ALE ' the llft ar ' d
w, da y s February next, at two o'clock, when the con-
Cft fi'r 't'nf A k '! OW " '>e had the
n| nr,t of April next. Ihe Title is iniifputahle.
3. January t* JOHN KINNARD.
Twenty Guineas Reward.
RAN AW AY from the fubferiber on the 23d OAobor, By
a ££k MVLATTO BOY, named MOS?fe ; at year,
old about \ feet 8 inches high ; had on a m«ed green
f*l wirh a green velvet cape and oval yel ow buttons;
a striped velt; a pair of dark spotted pantaloons and ,
St much worn. It is prohab ehe may change h
his name and dreft. He ha, been accullomed tft dr v.ng she
a ca-ruec and *-aiting. The above reward will be dre
n,S fnr foJairintf him i'o that the fubferiber may get him this
again, and if brought home al! reasonable charges paid by nin
Robins Chamberlcune. try,
Eafton, Maryland, Nov. .4 Tmaawtf
' No. 17c.
Diftriß of Pennfylvama, to wit. Fal
BF. it remembered, that on the 24th day of January g ro
in. the twenty-fil ft year of the independence of tne United ure
State- of America, John 'VhoMpljn oi the laid diftritft, fca]
hath deposited in this office the title of a Book, the right ih r ,
whereof he claims an proprietor, in the word, following f ru
to Wit - **™
" A Comparative View ef the Confutations of the g OC
several States with each other, and with that of the rat
United States, exhibiting in tables the promiment features grt
of each Constitution, and classing together their molt pr(
important provisions under the several heads of admimf- an(
nation : with notes and obfervauon.. By Will'-" 1 Smith w h
of South-Carolina, 11. b. and member of theCongrels j ac
of the United States." ' ot
In conformity to the a<ft of the Congreft of the Unted tre
■ States, intituled "An A (ft fo> the encoi.rat-nnent ot p ;,
learning by securing the copies of maps, cniru and books, roi
to the authors and proprietor, of fueh eopies during tha La
times therein mentioned." V"
SAMUEL CALPWELL, fm
Clerk of the Diftrift of PennfyWania s t;
• Feb. I. I;>w^
1 b »
TAU GU T 3 T
; mrs. b r p. n, m
Of the New Theatre, To Ladies only.
THINKING it a great advantage for them to have a a
Female Tutor in that art, pledges herfelf to their par- ca
- ents and friends to tako ail poffiblc care in thr : mftrudlion. 0
In addition to the Dances taught in Philadelphia, rneana '
to teach the Minuet, Minuet dc la Cour, Allemand, Ga- nc
vot, Quadrilles, Strathipeys, and all 3-cotch Dances
I ' above all to pay particniar attention to that very neceflary J
si part Polite Addreft. For particulars enquire of Mrs. Bvrn,
0 No* 70 northEighth-ftrcet. Fcbrury 6 rawfti
Samuel Richardet ~
T) ESPECTFULLY [informs ihe Gentlemen
i\ Merchants, that he has thi Aiy opened the CI 1 Y _ 3
TAVERN and MERCHANTS GOFI'EE HOUSE in the f u
city of Philadelphia; „ ut
The Subscription Room wHI be fumflhed with all the g,
~, daily papers publilhedin Philadelphia, New-York, Bos- jy
ton, Baltimore, together with thole of com- fr
mercial citi«s of Europe—They will be regularly filed t0
and none permitted to be taken away on any account. Ac
'' Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a va,riety F]
. of French Liquors; together with the usual refrefhments, of
*r will at all times be procured at the bar. re
] Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with m
,o the choiccft of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the Kioft b(
,o approved Malt Liquors froraLondon and other breweries. n(
,o * The Larder will befupplied with the prime and tarlieft ar
io productions of the Seafori. , 8r
,o Large and small Parties, or single Gentlemen, may be
>o accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hours mod convenient to themselves—a cold Collation is
>° regularly kspt for conveniency, the Billof Fare to be had Q ,
,0 at tha bar.
0 The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifhed, and u
the utmost Attention paid to cfcanlinefs, and every other c£
i® requilite. . ~r tl
0- S«uiL Richardet wjll behappy to receive,.and j
° execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at c(
~ laru-e; and with gratrfude for their favours, he pledges
10 himfelf that nothing on his part fhali be wanting K> pre
- lerve that patronage with whieti he has been so distinguish-
ingly honored. 3
j 5 Philadelphia. April iq. mwf £J
Dr. Perkins ""
d T"nforms the Citizens of Philadelphia, that he has taken in
II • A lodgings far a few days, at the Indian yueen, in 4th oJ
», street. He will be happy to wait on any persons in this m
r, city, between tlie hours-os 9 asd I, who wi/h t» latisfy
■j- themlelvesol the efficacy of hii
PATENT METALLIC POINTS,
And wiil operate gratis for the relief of the po»r : the
inftrumsnts, and the light of nfing them, aie £er sale at
K his lodgings.
' Subjoined, are Extraifts frem a Pamphlet, containing ma-
I' ny remarkable cases, attested by characters of the high
ell refpeitability.
Sxtrafis from Letters to the Author of the Metallic Difccvery. q
Piekvont tnwAkUs, Elq. Diftriil Attorney for the state
of Cciuietflicut.
New-Naven,,Oisl»ber 7, 1796.
Dear Sir,
I fhouldjhave written you last week, had I then been
able to ascertain certain facsU, the rumour of which I had lf!
heard. A Mrs. Beers, a «ear neighbour to me, the wife U
of Ebenßeers, and daugliterof captain SamuelTluggins,
-a of this town, had been, for fourteen weeks, exceedingly tl
in diftrefied with the Rhenmatilin, to such a degree that for xy
fourteen weeks previous t© the 29th of last month, Ihe
or had ijet been able to wait, across the room even with crut- '<
:s, ches, lave only once, when Ihe made out with the aftift
re auce of crutches to hobble part of the way acrois her room. JJ
'n On the 19th ol September last, ihe procured a fat of your n
v. metallic substances, and iu less than an hour after she had £
or begun to uft them, in the manner directed by you, Ihe f,
role from her chair, and walked about ber house, and on
.ic the next day she went abroad to her neighbours, having
k, thrown aside her ci utches. I have this day paid her a vilh
Is, in company with her lather, and Timothy Jones, Esq.
who lives in the street where she rcHdes and directly op
er r>ofit« to her residence, and with Capt. Abel Burrett, who f
in "is her next neighbor, and lives within eight yards of her
door. 1 requeued her to relate her cafe over in their
presence, which the did, and tbefe gentlemen all with o»e
voice, fupponed, Iroxi their own knowledge, her flory.
_ It 16 it'.uty which yoa ewe yuurfelf and the world to pro- v
oiulgc tins event.
1 am, very refpeflfully, ■*
Your obedient f»rvant,
PIER PONT EDWARD*. J
:at N. B. She/ays her fever has left her, her appetite has 1
r y returned, and she is in a fair way to be reftorcd to perlect 1
;ut health. (
> f " February 7. ir weotf f
All Persons having Demands
Against the Estate of the late Thomas Fvi .klin, 1
lfe tcc "' cc l> are delired to bring in their accounts for c
irs * naent '» anc t those indebted to make immediate 1
S fc payment, to ISRAEL PLEASANTS, ") „ <
a WALTER FRANKLIN, or [ Execu "
4, SAMUEL R. FRANKLIN, > tor '- j
:m January 14th, 1796. eozw ,
he Washington Lottery.
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may bepurfchafed or
he exchanged for prizes, a: the Office, No. 147, Che/nut
nd .reet, \vhere a Numerical Book is kept for public
in- mfpeilion. Also Canal Lottery Tickets for sale or ex
;he ehang.d for pri.es diawa in the Washington Lottery, of
a days returns ar» received.
' Bu'.mefs »f a Eroker carried on as usual.
January it. t£slf
t ■<
For Salk
By private font: cB, a very, valuable EJlate, known by
the name *f
CHaTHA M,
MOST delightfully situated on the:: orth bank oi Rjp
pahanock river, opposite thfc town of Froderickftiurg, La
the Hate of Virginia, confiluug of elev-n or fifteen hun
dred acres, as may best fait the purchaser. There is on
this estate, a large and well built brick house, containng
nine commodious rooui*, exelufive ol a spacious hall or en
try, 22 feet Cquarc, two pair of stairs, suitable andconven.
icnt pilTagts, aud excellent dry cellars. It is placed on a
fine heelthy eminence, commanding beautiful views in
every direction over the towns «f Fredcrickfbi rgh and
Falmouth, and an extensiVe cultivated country.—The
grounds adjoining the house are neatly laid out in pleas
ure snd kitchen gardens interspersed with a variety of
fearce tr cs, a choice colleftiojj of Sowers aHd flowering
Ihrubs, and enriched by various forts of the following
fruits, viz apples, pears, walnuts, chefnuts, eherries.peach
•c, plumbs, nectarines, apricot., grapes, figs, lafberries,
goofeberries.ftrawberrjes,and currants; the whale admi
rably varied by turfed Hopes which have bean formed by
great labour and expence. Bordering up«n thele im
provements, are several lots, in a higk {late of cultivation,
and well set with red clover and orchard grass, from
Which three heavy crops of hay are taken every year. Ad
jacent thereto are two large and flourifhing orchards; one
of well chosen peach trees, the other of apple and pear.
trees, fele&edfrom the best nur-feries in the state. Pro
perly detached from the mansion house are extenfiva
roomy offices of every denomination, viz. a Kitchen and
Larder, house-keeper's room and Laundry, with a cellar
underneath for a variety-os purposes; a ftore-toufe aad
invoke house allof brick, a dairy and spring houf« of ftdne.
Stables for thirty horses, and coach houses for four car
riages. Alio a large and well planned farm yard, v ith
barn and granary, a cow house, with separate jftalls for
thirty-fix groyvn cattle; apartments for fattening veals,
muttons and lambs ; extensive Iheds for fhecp, and other
arrangements for stock of i vory description, with a large
j and convenient receivable for provender, from which they
can be furnifhed withoiit being expQfed to the inclemency
of the weather. An overfeer'a house, blacklmith's stop,
j and quarters fufficient to accommodate in the best man
ner more than fifty labourers.
The arable lands are f« advantageously divided asts as
, ford an opportunity of leaking a large quantity of ludian
corn annually, withouc bringing the field into (iniiiar cul
ture oitner than once in four years; consequently the
lands may be improved by keeping up the inclofure* during <
the intermediate years, or may bp beneficially fallowed for
wheat and other grain ?t the option of the proprietor.
' On the prcmifes there is alio ja merchant mill with one
pair of best French burr ltor.es, and one pair of Cologne;
* furnifhed with modern machinery, and now leafed for the
unexpired term ol four years, at I jol per annum, and all
p grain for the use of the farm, hoppcrfree, which is near
" lyiool. more. Flu mill and miller'shoufe are built of
" free stone, within a very small distance of navigation,near
- to which are two or more valuable lilhcries, and a weij
accustomed ferry over the Rappahannock to the town of
I Fredericklbutg. i'he land con tains inexhaui'tible quarries
'■ of free stone near to the river, is plentifully supplied with
remarkable fine water and poflfeffes a due proportion of
J meadow, which by having the command of water may
be csnfiderably iacreafed- The roads are good, and the
neighbourhood genteel *ndfociable. InfaS, exclofiveof
an improveable and well condit'qncd farm, the value and
emolument inseparably conne&cd witn a mill, ferries,
e fifberies and quarries eligibly fltuated ; the profits ai ifiug
t from an ice-house inferior to no»e in the state, and a gar
den ofifour acres so abundantly stocked with vegetable! 1
of all forts asto.be fully equal to the demand in market,
there might be detailed many other advantages, apper
taining to the fertility of thtfe lands, which the fiibfcriber
r conceives it unnecessary to mention, being fully convinced
A that when examined, it will be found to lie a coalpirte.
pleafawt and nealtiiy"' tcfldencc7jioTu®:Tg "beauties and
' conveniences fufficient to attrail the attention of any per
s son defirousof becomingapuichafer
The motive which induces the fubferiber to offer for
sale an sftatefo singularly beautiful and advantageous, n
a desire to become au inhabitant of Alexandria, where he
can with more cafe attend to his interests lu the neigh
bourhood of that city.
The purchaser may be accommadatcd with 3 few flavet
r> in families, either for plantation or domestic use. A part
h of the purchafc money will be required and the balanc*
s made easy, the debt being properly secured.
Y WILLIAM FIT Z HUGH.
Chatham, (Virg.) Dec. 19, 1796. ntjj—Jaw2m.
' This Day is Published,
By BIOREN & MADAN, at their Printing Office., -
No. 7?, Dock-street, and fold by the principal
Bookleliers in this City.
The American Annual Regjfter ;
Or historical Memoirs of the United States, for the
Year 1796.
No. 167.
Dijfrifi of PtrmJyfoßnuty to *wit :
n Be it remembered, that on jthe 19th day of January
d in the Twenty-firft yeair of the Independence of the
e United State* of America, Bioren& Madan of The fa»i
?, diftrift have deposed in this Office the title of a Book
y the Right wbtreof thky claim as f roprietors in the
r xyords following t« wit;
e "The American Annual Kegifter, or Historical
> ** Memoirs of the United States, for the year 1796.
l-n conformity to the aft of the Congress of the
»• United States entituled "An a£t for the cncourage
r ment of learning by; securing the copies of
Charts and Books, to the authors ajid proprietors of
c such copies during the time therein mentioned.
II SAMUEL Caldwell,
Clerk Pennsylvania D'.ftriA.
January 25. ' :aw4
0 PURSUANT to a Resolve of the Board of Truflces o
r Washington Academy, in Somcrfct County, and
ir &.ate of Maryland,
ic NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
f. That the office of Principal Tc- cker in the said school |il
vacant.
AGENTLEMANquaIified to teach the higher Greek and
Latin Claflics, Geography, and the Mathematics, with
such other branches df literature as ar« usually taught in Aicb
schools, would meet with liberal encowagemeru, lt "
believed, would obtain a very eligible fettlemeat. Fof the
prefcßt, the Trustees would fee willing to contract with a per
lon capable of takingcharge of a Grammar £ihooJ.
As this Institution is provided v.-ith build
accommodate the principal and his farnilv, ana fretn
;? to eighty a library, an excellent philofophfcal T1,? "
themaiical apparntus, glohe?, xmaps, &c; has refpeftahle
n, funds, and is iituatcd in a plentiful and agreeable part of the
or country; nothing teems wanting to make it rank, among tne
t e moil ufefui feminities ia this part of the Union, hut a suitable
cbaraiier to piefide ih it. f
U- Proposals may be addressed to the fubferib'r, »r* Prinw s
>• Anne, in the neighborhood of the Academy. or D»«or
.Martin L Hatnib, No B.j, north Third-street, FhiW
deiphi?, or to the Printer hereof. _
— £Z£KiEL HAYMII-
Januaiy 20. Feb. 7. ta^lSw
or -
*; PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO
01 -No. 119-
C H E S N-U T-S TREFT.
[Prise Eight OoNom ptr Annum.