of tije MllttEtJ JfPtHftS,, and Philadelphia ,Daily Advertiser.
Number i q 8 i. j
SAI.ES by auction.
Stated Sales
For DRY GOOD S.
r Forenoon—Edward Fox, No. 56,
k, , 5 fbuth Front-flreet,
on aj-y Afternoon —Footman & Co. No. 65
C South Front-ftrect. ).
(' Forenoon—John Conntjtly, 01d City
r , ) Auilion, No. 73 foutli Front-street.
ue J' a } S Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
V. 183 High-street.
f Atternoon —Peter iJenfon, No. 74
WedMday \ fomh Xhird^rcet .
<r/, /v (Forenoon—Edward Fox.
'"J a y | Afternoon—John Connelly.
„ ■ , / Forenoon—Will-am Shannon.
ra y ) Afternoon— John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
( For Freight or Charter,
TUE GOOD BRIO
S U K E Y,
Isaac Vredcnburg, Master ;
NOW lying at Clifford's in compUat
to receive a cargo.. For terms please to ap
ply the Captain en board, or
- - John Slyrirt,
No. 81, Arch-flreet*
IVMO HAS tOR SALE,
2000 \vt. of double refined Saltpetre
600 wt. of F F Gun Powder
300 barrels of Herrings
50 bufiieli of Timothy Seed
150 cafe'of Claret, firft quality
And a quantity of Slurry Wine.'
pt. 29. • dtf
HAVANNA SUGARS.
FOR SALE,
1400 boxes and calks prime white Havau
na SUGARS,
On board the ship Hamburgh Packet, Silas
Swain, Master, now lying it Marcus Hook.
For terms, apply to Capt. Swain, on board, to
Capt. Samufl Smith, in Front, uear,Wal
liut street, or to 1
Philip Nicllirt, & Co.
Who offer the said Ship
Hamburgh Packet
For SALE or CHARTER.
She is 3ZO tons regifler, coppered to the bends,
fails remarkably faft, and san be ready to re
ceive a cargo in a few days.
Sept ai. diw
v Antigua Rum,
JUST arrived at Wilmington, Delaware
State, and now landing from on board the
Brig A .'Vive, William Williams, Mafler,
One hundred hhds. 3d & 4th proof,
And for Sale by
Jehu Hollingfworth W Co.
Wilmington, Sept. 21. dtf
N. B. The above Brig,
a "d the brig GAYOSO, are
also for Sale or Charter, and
_E-3jyV now ready to receive a cargo
on board, at Wilmington. Apply as ahove.
For Savannah,
The faft failing ship,
SWIFT PACKET,
Patrick Gribbin, Master,
Now lying opposite th;.mouth
of Frankford Creek, has handsome accommoda
tions for passengers, and will fail on or about
the Ift *f Oflober.
For freight or pjfTtge apply to the mailer on
board, or of the fublcnbers at Frankford, 5 12
miles from Philadelphia.
Nalbro & J. Frazier.
Prankford, Sept. 18. dtiftO.
For HAMBURGH,
' i 'HE Copper Bottomed Ship
JL FAVORITE, John
Thompson, Master, now at
Bright's wharf, and will be rea
2-. dy to take in on Monday next,
part of her cargobeing engaged
and reidy to go on board. The fliip is so well
known, that it is needless to describe her. She
is now in compleat order. For Freight or Pas
sage, pltafe to apply at Mr. Jeremiah Warder's
Compting House, No. 12, North Third street,
or to the-Mafter on bord.
August 50.
For SALE,
On board the said Ship, Swedilh Iron, aflortetl
Hollowand Window Glass, Demvjohns, Wrap
ping Paper for Sugar Refiners, Rugs of 1 & a
Quality. Please to apply as above.
wficm/,w
~~~ FOR SALE,.
BRETAGNES ir. cases
German Checksin do.
Cambrick
Plattillas
Oznabrigs , *
Gold and silver Watches
Window Glass loby $
Glass Tumblers in cases
Linseed Oil in c&fks, &c. &c.
, George Pennock,
103, High-Street.
July 5- jaw
An elegant House in Arch Street.
TO be let and entered on immediately a large
and elegant house at the Corner of Arch and
Ninth Street. There are two drawing rooms
and one dining room—the largieft is 3I feet by
26 —and two are so connected by folding doors
•s to make but one. Also, fivs bed rooms, be
sides 5 in the garret, well finilhed for fervauti.
There are ftahles and a coa'ch house, with evry
convenience for a family. Enquire at No. 29,
in North Seventh street, or at No. 218, Arch
Street.
Aug. Is. aa»3ly.
Chocolate and Mustard
MamifafUtred as ufiial,
Ginger and Pepper ground
Shelled or Peail Barley
Bhiiadelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder
London Porter
Taunton and Burton Ale
Red Port and other Wines, eithe bottled,
or by the pipe, quarter-calk or gallon-r-fuitable
for exportation or home consumption
For Sale by
"John Hawcrth.
No. 9$ io'Jlh Fio/it ftre t'
PHILADELPHIA: TUESDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 3, 1797
Public notice is hereby given,
To tlx Freemen of the City and County of
Philadelphia, and the County of Delaware,
f-pHAT a General Ek'iillon will be held on
JL Tuefclay the 10th day of Oiflobei next ,
the eleilion to he opened between the hours of
Jo o'c ock in the forenoon, and I o'clock in af
ternoon —v?h 'u the freemen of the cliy of Phi
ladelphia are to meet at the State«houfe, in the
said city, to eleil
Six representatives for the said city in the gen
eral afftmbly.
Twenty perl'oui for members of common
council.
Four persons for members of the felefl coun
cil, in the room of Francis Gurncy, Godfrey'
Haga, Henry Pratt, and Read, whose
time expires.
The freemen of the county of Philadelphia
to eleil
Six representatives for the said county in ge
neral afiembly.
The freemen of the tity and county of Phila
de!"hia po elefl
Two persons for iheriff.
One person for c'eunty commissioner.
The freem*n of the city and county of Phi
ladelphia, and the county of Dela*var«, to eledt
One l'enator for the state.
The freemen of the county of Bio A ley and
Kingfefling, are to hold their election at the
State-houle in the city of Philadelphia.
The freemen of the Northern Liberties, are
to hold their eledlion at the Town-house, in Se
cond street continued, above Coats's street.
The freemen of the townfhipof Germintown,
Roxborough and Briltol, are tw hold their elec
tion at the Union l'chool-houfe, in Germantown.
The freemen of the township of Oxford, fiy
bery, Lower Dublin and Morctand, are to hi id
ther eleflion in thehoul'e late John BamQey's in
Bufleltown, in the towllfl)ip of Lower Dublin.
And the freemen of the diftriit of South
wark, and the township of Moyamenfing and
Pafiyunck, arc to hold tneir eleflion at thecom
miftioner's hall, in the diftritf of Somhwark *-
forefaid.
The conftabtes of each ward, diftri<3, &c are
to hold their ele&ions in the different riiltriifls,
to choose their infpedlors and afTeflbrs for the
eufuing ysar, and give their attendance at the
time and refpe&ive places
JOHN BAKER, Sheriff".
Sept. 29. . dtE
'ihe Norfolk Mail STAGE. •
THIS Stage starts from the GEORGE Tavern,
at the corner of Second and Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, every Tuc/Jay, ThurfJay, and Satut
day, at 3 o'clock, io the nrorning ; arrives at Do
ver the firft day, at Snowhill the second day, at
Northampton Court House the third day, and on
the morning of the fourth day the paflengcrs find
a fafe and comfortable packet to convey thorn to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton fetry,
every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday, and the
Stage starts from this frtry for Philadelphia, every
MonJay, Wcdnefday and Friday ;]put» up at Snow
Hill the firft night, at Dover the id night, and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day.
Thediftance on this route, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is So miles less than on any stage route
bet\vecn those placev
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road,
which is inoft excellent indeed. The proprietors 1
willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
palfcngiT, who, after having performed this route,
will fay that he ever travelled in a Itage for the fame
distance, so good a road in America.
August 11. * dim.eotf.
This Day Published,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of
Second and Chcfuut streets,
Price 3-Blit of a Dollar,
Observations on certain Documents
Contained i* No. V and VI of
" The History of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In which the charge of speculation againlt
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secretary of the Treasury, is FULLY
REFUTED.
tr RIT TS N Br HIMSELF.
This publication presents a concise Ilatement
of the base means pra&ifed by the Jacobins of the
United States to asperse the characters of those
persons who are confidercd as hostile to their disor
ganizing schemes. It also contains the tor
rcfpondence between Mr. Hafnilton and Mcflri.
Monroe, Muhlenbnrgh and Vcriabie, on the 'fub
je<sfc of the documents a scries of let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha
milton, proving beyond the poflibility of a doubt,
that the connexion between him and Reynolds,
was the result of a faring confpiraay on the p-rt
of the latter and his aflociates to extort money.
A di/count of one third from the retail price
will be made in favor of wholefaic purchasers, for
cash. Orders to be addrcfled to Mr. Young.
Augufl 25.
No. 188. ~
DiJlriß of Pennsylvania, to ivit :
(l s) R E 11 MfcutMBBRED, that on the
JD twertty sixth day of July, in the twen
ty second year of the independence of the United
States of America, Jouw Fenno, of the said dif
trid.hath depofittdin this office the title of.ahook,
the right whereof, he claims as proprietor, in the
words following, to wit :
" Observations on certain documents contained
" in No. V. and VI. of " The History of the Unit
" ed States for theyear 1796," in which the charge
" of speculation, againll Alexander Hamilton, late
" Secretary of the Treasury, is fully refuted—
" Written by himfelf "
In conformity to he aA of theCongrcfs of the
Ucited States, entituled, " An ait for the encour
agement of learning, by securing the copies of
maps, charts and books to the authors - anrf propri
etors of such copies, during th. times therein men
tioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk 9/ the Diflrift of Pennsylvania.
July if. W4W
TO BE SOLD VERI CHJLAP f
A Light Wrt GGON almost new, with a frame—
and a pair of harness (Eiiglilh collars) has never
been used—price 90 Dolls.
A Horse 16 hands high, seven years old—and a
new chair, with a Jailing top and harnefs — 320.
Enquire No. 331, Markct-flrcet
August 24. c!iw
Excellent Bourdeaux Brandy
Ditto ditto Claret in cases
Just received, and for Sale by
Rundle & Leech.
A*j 1. n lajvtf
By John Fenno, N a 119 Cbefnut Street
CUSTOM-HOUSE,
Philadelphia, Sept. 2jd, 1797.
THE Me' chants who at this time prefer hav
ing their v<jfT:|j and Merchandize entered and
cleared at Clieftcr or Marcus Hook, —»re here
by notified, 'l hat in compliance with thtir de
lire, and upon a full convivft on thrt the measure
will be mutually beneficial to thefti and td the
United States. The colleislor of tie customs has
made arrangements to efta'>li(h f r some time
branches of the cujlom-hrrufe at those places,
w here every accommodation in his power will
be given to the merchants. dsw
~ TO BE SOLD,~
And immediate pojjejfion given,
A Convenient well finiihed Brick I enement,
with a cook house and other out houfesj situ
ated in a pleasant part of the borough of Wilming
ton, in the State of Delaware—The lot of ground
Ws forty feet front on We(l-:lreet, aud extends
through the square to Padure-ftreet, on which is
ereiled a liable and carriage bonfe.
ALLEN M'LANE.
Wilmington, Aug. 10.
Lately Published,
In orte vol. 8 vo (price one dollar in fold
by Vl ILLIAM YOUNG, corner of Second and
Chefnut ftreetß,
A Colleton of Papers on the fubjeft of
Billious Fevers, prevalent in the United
States fgr a few years past.
Compiled by NOAH WEBSTER* jun.
Containing letters from Dw&ors Seaman, Smith,
Buel, Taylor, Ramsay, Monfon, Reynolds, Mitch
ell, on contagion, &c. &c.
t r, * r t
City CommiJJioners Office,
August 29, 1797.
IN purfuanee of an Ordihance of the Select and
Common Councils, palled the lid day of May last.
Propo/al* in writing will he received hy the City
Comnnfiioners for one month from the ift of Sep
tember next, for letting to rent on leases for one
year to commence the firft day of January next, the
following public property of the city—
The wharf and landing on Vine Street,
Also on faflafras,
Mulberry,
And High Streets,
Chefnut and Walnut Streets, Braw Bridge, with
the Scale and Filh Houses, Spruce, Pine and Cedar
Streets.
The cellar under the City-Hall.
The Tavern at the middle ferry on Schuylkill,
with the lott contiguous thereto, (except so much
thereof as (hall be occupied by any buildings eredl
ed for the use of the Collector of the Tolls, or be
necefiary for the toll-gates.)
Ang. 3 Jtawlm.
LOS T,
ON the Paffyunk Road, between the Blue Ball
and the city, & Fowling Piece, with a brass
barrel and silver fight ; on the plate of the butt are
the letters " Jamaica, 99" —and on the barrel
near the lock '• London" and the Tower flamp.
Whoever will return the (aid piece to John Bennard,
atthefign of the Blue Ball on the Paffyunk Road,
or the office of this Gazette, shall receive a reward
of Four French Crowns,
Sept. 1 a. *3t
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT agreeably to an ail of Congrcfs ef the
United States of America, passed at Phila
delphia, the aßth day of May, 1796 ; laying du
tias on Carriage, for the conveyance of persons,
which (hall be kept by or for any person, for his
or her own use, or to let out to hire, or for the
conveyance of paffcngcrs, the several duties and
rates following, to wit:
For and upon every Coach, 15 dols.
upon every Chariot, II dols.
upon every Post Chariot, 11 dols.
upon every Post Chaise, 11 dol*.
upon every Phaeton, with or without top,
9 dols.
upon every Coacher, 9 dols.
upon other Carriages, having pannelwork
above, with blinds, glalfes di curtains,
9 dols.
■upon f»ur wheeled Carriages, having fra
med polls and topi with uccl springs, 6
dols.
upon four wheeled Carriages, with wood-
iron springs or jacks, 3 dols.
upon Curricles with t«p«, 3 dols.
upon Chaises with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols.
upon other two wheel topcarriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carriages, with steel or
iron springs, 3 dols.
For and upon all other two wheel carriages, a dols.
upon every four wheeled cirriage, having
framed pods and tops, and reding up
on wooden spars, 2 dols.
The Colleilors of the Revenue for the firft Sur
vey of the Diftrifl of Pennsylvania, will attend
daily, until the 3Cth day of September n-xt, lor
the puipofe of receiving the duties on Carriages, at
Germantown ; at the house of Daniel St. Clair,E(q.
in the County of Montgomery; and at the house
of James Chapman, Esq. in the County.of Bucks ;
of which all perfons,poireffed of such Carriages are
defircd to take notice.
Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dis
tilled spirituous liquor", that licences will be grant
ed to them ; one licence for carrying on the busi
ness of retailing of Wines, in a iefs quantity, or
in less quantities th»n thirty gallons—and one li
cence for carrying on the business of retailing Spi
rituous liquors in less quantities than 10 gallons, at
the fame time and at the fame places, by the offic
ers legally autliorifed t« grant such licences.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpeitor of tbe Revenue of the firft fui
vey of tttcDiftriAof Pennsylvania.
Office ot Infpecftion at ") j
Germantow, 12th Sept. 1797- J
IMPORTED
In tho fliip America, James Ewinj, snafter, from
Hamburgh,
BrQwn Hollands
White Piatillas
Ticklenhnrgs
Coarse Linens
Tapes.
Looking'GlaiTcs 7 r
Giafs -Tumblers $ mca os "
FOR SALE BY
George Pcnnock.
Atiguß 14. 3aw
Acl laying Duties on Stamped Vellum,
Parchment and Paper.
A FFW copies of the above ail may be hud at
the Office of tho Gazet«e of tho Usited States, No
119, Chefnut-ftreet. July 19.
TO DE S^D,
And immediate pofleflion given,
THAT elegant feat, called BLOOiviS-BURY ,the
rcfidence of the l ite John Cox, £fq with a-,
boat \o acres of Land, fituite' on the Delaware, ex
tending from the mouth of A flan pick creek, to Tren
ton ferry. The mansion house it a kandfome well
conftruifled brick building, 50 : y 40 feet, contain
ing four room* on each floor, with excellent cellars,
and a two story brick kitchen. Among; the out
buildings arc a flone coach houfc and flables, fuf
ficient t-s» contain fix carriages no ten horses, and
a flone cow house, upwards of 100 feet in length.
There is also a flone farr* house with corn cibs,
w- rgon house, &c. &c. The whole of theprcrm
fes proposed to be fold with this feat, from their fitu
arion and improvements, are such as to be worthy
the attention of any gentleman wishing to retire
from the city. There are also about 2j acres ad
joining the above, wl«ch will be d : vided so as to
uccomßiodate the purchasers. Also, XOO acres ad
joining the town lots ontheeaft fide of' the llrefet
leading from Trenton to Lamberton, which will
be fold together or in lots, as may bell suit the pur
chaser, and 230 acres of woodland, two miles from
the above land, which will also be divided if re
quired. The term**of payment will be made easy,
and an indisputable title given. For further parti
culars enquire of Mrs. Cox, No. 144, South Fourth
(Ireet, Philadelphia, John Stevens, Efq Hoboc
ken, Mathias Barton, Esq. of Lancafler, cr the
fubferiber at Trenton.
MASICELL EWING.
Trenton,. Sept. 25, 1797.
Sept. 50. dtf.
Sundry Lots
IN the following Squares in the City of Washing
ton wfil.be rtpofe'd to Public Sale, by the fub
fcribcrs, on thefecond Monday in Ofiober nexr,
at the Little Hotel,"in the fuid Ci'y, to com
mence at 10 o'clock
Square No- 32, 41. 43. 44. 47. 48. 49. s°, JJ.
66, 67,68, 69, 70, 73,74.7 J. 76, 77. 78. 79.101.
roj 105,118,119,130,141,61,56,84,104, 87,
88, 89, isj, 114, 145, no, 61, 166, 80, 103,
square east of square 87,fquSte f«uth of square 104,
square north of I'quareßt, square east of l'quare 88,
square north of square 128.
These Lots arc advantageously situated in the
neighborhood of thoFrefident's Square, and deem
ed equal in value to any in the city, and will be
peremptorily fold; clear and valid titles will b«
made to the pur chafer, oh receipt of the purchase
money. Terms of sale, are,.good note*, negotia
ble at the Bank of Colutnbia, one fourth part in
one month, one other fourth in three months, one
other fourth in five months, and the remaining one
fourth in seven months.
WILLIAM DEAKINS,jun.
URIAH FORKEST.
Sept. 11. dts 1
At the Federal Blast Furnace,
In Carver —for Slitting, Platting, and Rolling
Mills.
SEYMOURS Patent Rollers.
THEIR superiority confijls in being free from
holes and honey-combed places, which are com
monly found in rollers cast in sand, or day
moulds. Theft patent rollers are cafl in iron
moulds, previoxjly heated, andwill be found to
be more dense, Jolid and durable than any rollers
heretofore u/ed. Another important advantage
they' have over others, is, that the necks require
no turning, but are immedaitely Jit for use, and
from their accuracy, run with less friction, and
require less water to make them perform their
work. 7bey may be had by application to the
Patentee in Plymouth, of Cen. Nathaniel Good
win, or of .M/Jfrs. Thatcher and Hay ward.
Bojlcu, Aug. 31.
Sept. 19, §6l.
Mr. ITATLS ON, ~
WITII an intention to render service, and unde
ceive those Performers, who durißghis absence Mr.
Jaymond Ims thought proper to engage, thinks it
would be wrong in him nut to inform those that ;
are engaged, that itis withou his approbation,and
that he will not be in any way for r
Jaymond's engagements.
PHILIPPE LAILSQN.
Alex anuria, Sept. 15,
THESUBSCRIBEIiS,
ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GttEENLEAP,
HEREBY give notice, (hat they have difpoftd
of the property assigned to them for the fecurifi j
the payment of tha note', acceptances, and en
dowments given by Edward Fox, for the use
ofthefeid James Greenltaf; and the r h"ldere of
such notes, acceptances, and endorfemerits. are
hereby notifyed thai the subscriber» will fettle
with them for the amount of iheir refpe<Slive
claims, both prinCipal and interest, at
any time before the 2cth day of October r.cxt ;
after which day, the holders not applying, will
be excluded, agreeably to the terms of align
ment.
Applications to be made at south-east corner
ps Dock aud Second streets (the Dock lfrcet
between the hours of eleven and one o'
tlock every day, Sunday!' excepted.
Henry P ratty
• Tho. IV. Francis,
John Miller, Jun.
John AJhley,
Jacob Baler.
Philadelphia, Angu-fl 18, 1797; d_
Juflf published,
And to be fold at the Bcokftores of H. Isf P.
Rice, No. 50, Market-street 1 J. Ormrod,
No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet, and W. Young,
corner of Chefnut and Second-flreets,
An accurate System of Surveying-;
IN WHICH I^CONTAINVD,
1. Decimal fra&ions, in a plain, concise,
and cai'y manner.
2. The extraflion *>f the square root.
3. Phin trigonometry, rectangular and ob
lique.
4. An exacS method to cast up tbe contents
of lands.
5. Field f\irveying.
The wholebeing performed without the use
of scale and compalTes, o<i a table of logarithms.
In which is given some account of the .variation
of the needle, and the causes of its attrition.
By SAMUEL MOORE.
Aucrufl i. ;2\v:iw
Window GLASS,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper thau any other in
the Gitv —
OF FAMOUS STZHS,
From Bbv 6t>jqby i 4.
ftv fmgle Box or Quantity, may be h*d at the
store ot the .Subscribers. coiner o< Arch atid Front
ier ecs.
J a fries C. Samuel h . Fijher.
%'v! ciclpl)i>- June 9, »»»?. V 1
r ! homas Herman Leuffef.
North lifth ftrect, comer of North alley. No
HAS FOR SALE,
I EXCELLENT red Uourdeaux Wine in cases and
-J boxes, fix years old
White G cav-os Wine in caflss
rjrhlenburg#
Rufha Sail Cloths
Ravens Duck
Bag-Linen
Hessians
Diaper and Table Clotk
Empty bags
Common German Cloth
An aflortmentof black coloured Ribbon#
Fine German JLaces .
About twelve tons Ruifia clean Hemp
Clover Seed
Italian Soap, in small boxes, sot family use , V
Window Glass Aug 29. —law
1 HIS DAY WAS PUBLISHED, ~
And for Uc by 7HSMJS DOBSON, at the
Stone House, No. 41, fouih Second firect*
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED.
Consisting of a variety of Mis'.' ihneous Pieces for
the inftruii ion and amusement of YOUNG PER
SONS—Six Volumes handsomely printed and bound
up va two vofUmcs, price Two Dollars.
The variety and excellence of thefa piece* are
such, that the hook needs on«ly to be.knotvh to be
universally efleemed one of the mod valuable pub
lications th t can be put into the hands of young
ptrfons. ■#
" Delightful task to roar the t?Jder thought,
To tcacji the young id?a how to Ihcot,
To pour the frefh ir:ltrn&ion o'er the mind,
To breathe rh* enlivening* f;urit,and to fix
The generous purpose in the glowing bread,"
Thomson.
August 24. mwf4w
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
Ey THOMAS DOBSON, at the Stone House,
No. 41, south Second street.
Letters and Conversations,
Between ftveral Young Ladies, on improving and in
tereding fubje&s.
Tranflatcd from the Dutch of Madcme de Camlet*
with alterations and improvements,
Printed on fine paper, and neatly bound,
Price one dollar.
AMIDST the tide of modern painting
tales ®f extraordinary distress, or of desperate or
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul/* and
which it would be for the honor of young ladies to
be ignorant of, this little book comes forward to so
licit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds of reallliftg t the proper y beeaufe
elegant and natural dignity and importance of the Female
cbarafter is exhibited in an interesting point of view,
and presents examples of real and attainable excel
lence.
The publiftier was fomuch pleafedwith the peri*
sal) that he was persuaded he ihould do a pleating;
ferviceto the community by fending it in o circu
lation. August 24 —mw4w
"To Masters and Pilots bringing'up Vejfek
from Foreign Ports to this City.
X YTHereas sundry infringements have lately been
VV made on the laws of this state for the pre
venting pestilential or infe&ious diseases, either
from ignorance or inattentioa thereto, it is tho't
expedient at this time to publifll the following ex
tracts from the laws of aad April, 1794, 7th and
Bth fe&ions;
HEALTH-OFFICE.
June 6th, 1794.
Extract of an aft for fecurtng the city and port
of Philadelphia from the introduction of pe/li*
lential and contagious diseases.
Sect. 7. And be it further ena&ed, that every
wafler or captain of any ship or vefTel coming from
lea (veflels ailqally employed in the coasting. trade
excepted) 2nd bound to any port or place within
the jiirifdi&ion of Pennfylvania,fhaU cause his (hip
or vessel to be brought to anchor, or otherwise flayw
ed in the dream of the river Delaware, to
the Heatfh-Offifce on State-Island aforefaid, and
t-here to remain until he shall have duly obtained a
certificate or bill of heal h from the Refidcnt Phy
sician. And il, previcufly to obtaining such certi
ficate or bill of health, any matter or captain (hall
fuffer hi# vefTel to approach nearer than ti»e
said Health-Office to th\city of Philadelphia, or
shall land, cause or fufFcr tb be landed, or brought
on shore, at any or port within this- Cora
n*>nwealth, or at any other port or place, with the
inte&t of being conveyed .into thjs Commonwealth,
any pcr.fon oitperfons, cr any goods, wares or mer
chandize, or, if after receiving ( fuch bill of health
o. certificate; he shall ncglr-<fc or refufe to deliver
the fam* to the Health-Officer, such maflter or cap
tain shall forfeit atia p y, for each and every such
offence, the sum of five hundred dollars.
And the cattail or mailer of every ship or ves
sel shall fend a file and commodious boat to Tiring
the phyficiin on board, and shall in like manner
convey him back to the Health-Office, after he has
concluded his official examination ; And while he
is making such examination, or in rase any
quent examination by the Health Officer or C<jn
falting Phyllcian,' agreeably to the d re&ions of
thi> thojna&r or captain shall expole or caule
to be cxpofed to thefearclj of the Resident Phyfi
cian,or of the Health Officer and Consulting Physi
cian (as the cafe may be) each and every part of the
ihip or vefTel, and shall prcfent to Ais view each
and every person cr p«rfor;s on board thereof, and
and shall also true and f'atisfa&ory answers make
to all such questions as the Resident Physician, &c..
at4'he time of examination shall ask relative to the
health of any pert or place from which the ship or
vessel failed, or has finqe touehed at— number
of persons on board wh'cn the ship or vessel entered
on her voyage—the number of persons that have
fincc been landed or taken on beard, and when
and whererefpe&ively—what persons on board—
s they hatfe been during the voyage, or shall, at
the time of examination, be infeded with any pes
tilential or contagious disease—and what is the pre
sent slate and condition of the persons on board
with refpe»£l to their health or diseases. And if
any matter or captain shall refufe to expose as aforc
aid, to the search of any of the officers aforefaid,
n if he shall conceal any ftck perjon, or in any other man*
icr deceive tie proper officers aforefaid in his anfivers t
* uch captain or mader,for every fttch offence, shall
forfeit and pay the sum of five hundred bol*
' LARS.
Sect. 8. And if say person or persons whatfo
i ver (the Resident Physician, Sic. excepted) fliall
jro on beard any vefVel, before the mailer thereof
has received a cert ideate of health in the manner
dkeflad, every person so offending, shall pay th*
um of ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS
IT b'cipj; ah so lately necessary that the foregoing
i'edions should be corneli«J wit--, the
iubferiber, m compliance with his duty, must ex
ad a rtgefous obfervanee of the fame, or eMc be
under th« necelTity of putting the laws in force.
Wm. ALLI' N, Health Officer of the
l\%ri >4'
July J4.
f VCLCMF. Xl]PHILADELPHIA,
TUESDAY EVENING, Octobfr 3. 1
Mr. Peter Helm having St an early peri
od of tht; prevailing fever, offered his fer
v»oe to fuperinterid the care of the sick at
the Qity Hospital, and the board of health
having the itrongeft impression of the bene
volent views of Mr. Helm, accepted his
fcrvice until such time as the boaid could
fbfrfn some permanent arrangement for con
ducing of the hospital. This being done,
so as to enable the board to with
the services of Mr. Helm,
Ref< ived, That the "chairman enclose
this refutation to Mr. Helm, with the
•/armed thanks of the board for the ser
vices be has rendered to his fellow-citizens.
Piibliflled by order of the Board,
Wm; MONTGOMERY,
Chairman, pro tern.
Health-Office, City Hall,")
•Sept. 29, 1797. j
Philadelphia, Sept. 29, 1797.
Mr. Peter Helm.
Sir,
1 have the hondr to inclose you a-refolu
tion of the board, unanimously adopted.
Be assured it h»s been a source of negret
that your services could not with propriety
have been dispensed with before, they hav
ing a due sense of the facrifices you mud
have made to yourfelf and family. The
■committee some time since appointed to
visit daily the hospital, will perform the
difficult task heretofore laid on you.
1 With due refpe£t believe me, Sir,
Your obedient humble servant,
WILLIAM MONTGOMERY.
Chairman, pro tem.
No. IV.'
C ommunication from the Commiflioners to
to the Governor.
Sir,
In our lad we dated the amount of our
expenditures up to the 23d ultimo : the
balance then left in our hands was about
4000 dollars. 'From the above date to the
30th inclusive, we have expended, by em
ploying number of men on the roads at
50 ceti™ per day, Dolls. Cts.
M 9» 3 2 i
982 indigent persons relieved
with 900 70
Paid for bread 36 75
Ditto for provisions for persons
in the encampment 152 58
Ditto to clerks and messengers 32 29
We (bould be wanting in our duty with
refpedt to our fuffering fellow citizens, 3nd
regard to the fafety and security of the city
and prooerty at large, if we did not at thik
time give warning of the imminent danger
of dopping suddenly the fuppb'es handed out
through us the vad number of people of va
rious difcriptions, that are deprived of every
means of subsidence at'this time of general
"cilamity; and asjt takes above 2500 dollars
to provide for them weekly, under the grea
test economy, and the sum granted by the
Legislature being nearly expended, we trud
we (hall be excused when we inform you,
that however desirous we may feel to with
draw from thelabouredduties of ourappoint
mcnt, we have come to a conclusion, to
render our services while means are provided
to give relief, or that relief required, and our
condu£t approved of by our fellow citizens;
not doubting but that the wealthy and ben
evolent will exert themselves in behalf ofthofe
wh«fe si tuations require their immediate inter
position. We are greatly encouraged to ex
pe£t this from the generous donations alrea
dy received from the following friends to
fuffering humanity, viz.
Mordecai Lewis iod o
Thomas M'Euen 100 O
William Buckley 40 o
John Nixon 20 o
Thomas Hale • 20 o
Robert Bridges' 20 O
Joseph Crukihank 50 o
Jonathan Dawes 10 O
Cash " 10'
Doftor Luff (Wilmington) 8 o
' Cash 5 o
Samuel Blodget 2CO o
William Bell, who has a wife")
and four children, one of the (
labourers on the road, gave for f 5
the widow and fatherlefs. J
ROBERT WHARTON, Chairman,
State-House, o<£t6ber 2, i^7*
To Thomas Miffiin, Esq.
Governor of the Commonwealth of Penfylva
nia
The Commiflioners requed all those >vho
have any demands againd them, may pre
sent them immediately to Thomas Saverv,
No. 20, or George Krebs, No. 17, North
Fifth flteet, as they are desirous of fettling
their accounts as speedily as possible.
October 2.
UPWARDS of 600 men are daily
employed by the commiJJionCrs on the road, mnfl
whom have wives and children ; and more
than 900 persons chiefly women, have each a
sum of money given them, which js asfrrttdl at
the commijfioners think can, with the vtmofl fru
gality, support them : some "of theft women
have hujbands, who are aged, fid or otherwise
difablcd from working, many of them are wi
dows, and mojl of them have children ;fo that,
at the lowrfl calculation, at lenfl three t-hou
fand persons receive support from the sum
granted by the legislature, which will be all
expended in two or three days.—And it is ear
nflly defred our opuhnt fellow-citizens, whe
ther they remain in town or have removed into
the country, and all ethers who have a heart
to feel fcr pffli&icn, may deeply consider the
great diftrei's and even danger which will at
t nd so large a minder of people being suddenly
deprived of the necrfj'aries of tfe.
i.cthMo.il ' PI/JLO.
At 9 meeting of a number of the citizens !
of Philadelphia,'held at the Upiotr School
House in Germantown, ob Saturday, the u
30th day of September, 1797 :
It was agreed unanimouily, to recom
mend the following gentlemen as suitable 1
characters to fill the offices which precede [
their refpedh'vi names : I
Member of the Senate of the Jiatc of Penn- t
fylvania, for the di/lricl composed of the j
city and county of Philadelphia and county ;
of Delaware ]
Benjamin R. Morgan. <
Members of the House of Representatives for tie ;
City a e Philadelphia.
Gearge Latimer Robert Wain ,
Jacob Hiltzheiroer Lawrence Seckel
Joseph Ball Francis Gurney. ;
Members of the Select Council of the City of .
Philadelphia ;
Godfrey Haga Henry Pratt
James Read ; Francis Gurney.
Members of the Common Council of the City •
of Philadelphia ' (
Matthias Saddler Michael Keppele
James Todd Walter Franklin
Thomas Parker, Thomas Allibone
George Pennock James S. Cbx
Edward Pennington, Henry Drinker, Jun.
Henry Wharton, Caspar W. Morris
Joseph Hopkinfon Thomas P- Cope
Thomas Greeves Levi Hollingfworth
Conrad Gerhard X.awrence Herbert
Gideon H. Walls George Fox.
, Published hy order of the Meeting.
HENRY PRATT, Chairman.
JOHN HALLOWELL, Sec'ry^
It is a remarkable thing, butonethat.has
hitherto efcapcd remarks, that our anti-go
vernment men, who made
ant uproar about the detention of the Wef
ternPofts by the BritilhGarrifons,have to this
moment been silent and pafliveas lambs, about
the detention ofthepoftsontheMiffiflippi by
the Spaniards, in dirrß violation of treaty, for
15 or 16 months after the time stipulated.
This is to be accounted for by the belief of
all " patriots," that the Spaniards are under
the French and must do as they are bid; for
it is the firft article in all the democratic
creeds that " republicans can do no
wrong."
When Poland was cut up into three slices
for the three adjoining MSnarcbs, the mod
hideous outcry was raised by all lovers of
freedom—and justly—But when the French •
Republic begins to eut and carve for herfelf j
or her good despotic allies, it is all right e
nough with our " patriots." France may
overturn and take possession of half the dat?S
of Europe, and not excite one' democratic
murmur.
Jud so' with the privateering business.
When a British {hip of war took a vessel
or impressed a man near our harbours, our
patriots were all fire and vengeance. But
one French privateer puts in Marblehead—
another into the Delaware to look for Amer
ican vessels that are about failing, which
they take and confifcate, without ceremony
and all this make* no budle among our cof
fee house " patriots."
What a puppy-like temper isit that makes
a difference between robbers. " Iffachar is a
drong ass, bowing under two burthens!"
but our democrats are worse, for they wince
only at one fide of. the load, while they
meanly crouch to the other, and kiss the
hands that lay it on the (houlders.
[ Minerva.
From tie COLUMBIAN CiNTINEL.
The house that " Jack built," iu a political
view ; or Monroe'/ requefl for the reason
of his recal complied wtlh.
The House.—This is the house the
French direftory built.
L'argent.—This is the malt that lay in
the house the dire&ory built.
Monroe.—This is the rat, that eat the
malt, that lay in the house the
built. t
Pickering.—'This is the cat, that kill'd
the rat, that eat the malt, that lay iu the
house the dire&ory built.
Honestus.—This ig the dog that
barked at the cat, that killed the rat, that
eat the malt, that lay in the house the di
rectory built.
Johnny, the f Wild Ir'fhman." —This
is the bull, withfi crumpled horn, that
roared with the dog, that barked at the
cat, that killed the rat, that eat the malt,
that lay in the house the directory built.
Liberty 4 la mode Francois.—This
is the maiden all forlorn, that coaxed the
bull with a crumpled horn,, that roared
with the dog, that barked at the. cat, that
killed the rat, that eat the malt, that lay
in the hbufe the dirc&ory built.
Equality.—This is the man, all tattered
and torn, that kissed the maiden all forlorn,
that coaxed the bull with a crumpled horn,
that roared with the dog, that barked at
the cat, that killed the rat, that eat the
malt, that lay in the house the dire&ory
built.
The Rowley Divine.—This is the
Priejl, all (haven and (horn, that married
the man all tattered and torn, that kissed
the maiden all forlorn, that coaxed the bull
with a crumpled horn, that roared with the
dog, that barked at the cat, that killed the
1 rat, that cat the malt, that lay in the house
the dire (Story built.
Blount;—This is the Patriot, covered
with Scorn, that paid the parson all /haven
and /hotn, for marrying the man all tattered
and torn, that kissed the maiden all forlorn,
■ that coaxed the bull with a crumpled horn,
that roared with the dog, that barked at
, the cat, that killed the-rat, that eat the
malt, that lay in the house the, diredtory
1 built.
! Conscience. —This is the cock, that
crowed in the morn, that waked the patriot
. covered with scorn, that paid the parson all
1 (haven and (horn, for mar,rying the msn all
■ tattered and torn, that kissed the maidWi
: all forlorn, that coaxed the bull with a
. crumphd horn, that roared with the dog,
; that barked at the cat, that killed the rat,
that cat the malt, tbp.i lay in the house the
dirtS'cry baili.
From the New-York Galette, &c. j i
Mejfrs. M'Lean & Lang,
GtiW LE MEN,
Amor Patri/e ! Love of country ! 1
facred feelingS'diHnot those words in- 1
spire ? How transporting the pleasure of '
being thought a true friend to our country— 1
to be willing on evefy- occasion to facrifiee '
private interest' to the public good—to die J
in her defence when necessity demandsl
holy principles—may ye be ever cherilhed,
cultivated and venerated by Americans ! Of '
all the paflions which inhabit the human I
bread, tione is more strong —more univer- '
sal—than attachment to our country ; it
poflefies the inhabitant of mod desert 1
and comfortlefs sties in as forcible a manner 1
as the citizen of a polished well regulated 1
society,, v.here laws and manners tend to '
secure and sweeten human .felicity. If the 1
inhabitants of the frozen . region of Nova •
Zembla, if the Rations of the burning sands '
of Africa, where physical and moral causes t
combine to depress and weigh down terref- h
tial bliss, idolize the spot that gave them !
birth, how much more drongly ought the ;
holy fire of patriotism to burn in t'nebofoms
of the people of the United States, where
mild and equal added to every improve
ment and refinement of civilized' life,, con
fpirc to feeiire and promote universal happi- '
ness. How ought our indignant fouls to
unite in one blaze of national vengeance at
the attempts of any foreign foe to interrupt
so beautiful an order of things ? By un?on
we (hall repel, by division we have invited in
jury and insult ; let us then Americans, my
dear fellow-citizens, at this very intereding
crisis, (when our fate as to peace or war
seems to hang by 3 thread) cad far from us !
all internal, diflfention—let not an ambitious
and plundering nation be invited to our
(hores by division among ourselves—by the '
fiend-like hope they may be led to indulge,
of finding affidan ce Jrom some of you in the j
degradation afcd rmn of your country. O ;
horrid thought ! O patricidal idea !—to
think that the citizens of free America,
should, by their anti-patriotic conduct, have
given any foreign nation whatever, the small
est ground to harbor the satanic hope, that
they would find citizens of the United
States diabolical enough to join them in the
devastation—the dedruftion of their coun
try. The present is an awfiri crifn ! big
with the fate of every thing dear to our
I country—of our religious and civil institu
tions—os our morals and our property, and
even of our lives. Let us not imitate those
degraded voluptuous fiaves of Italy—let us
call forth that unyielding spirit-—that holy,
firm, and patriotic zeal, which animated us
in our last druggie for independence—let us
Jet a mark upon our mo/l danger out enemies—'
our internal vipers, who, even at this moment
applaud and juftify the unheard-of injuries
and intuits we have received from France :
Are such men to be fuffered to remain a
mong us in time of danger ? No, my fellow
citizens, we are too wife for that, and I
hope too human* to apply their favorite in
strument the GUILLOTINE as a cure for
their want of patriotism. The present 1
fay, it a serious and gloomy moment, the
dreadful clouds ofdemocratic-diieftory-fury
hang over our devoted heads ; for our fate,
in common with that of England and Aus
tria evidently depends on the success of the
legislatiVe body against the executive of
France; but, {hould the direftory unhappily
prevail over the councils, woe betide human
ity, for the druggie will be dreadful between
that hydra of carnage, anarchy and guilt—
" the fire-headed monster," and the remaining
forces of- religion, morality, manners and
laws,throughout the civilized world. Thank
God, that our doom seems, in this refpeft
so closely linked to that of England—thank
God, that (he has five hundred rtiips of war,
and praised be our good luck at this parti
cular time, in being so much ia debt to Eng
land ; whether she makes peace with the
all-devouring, all-plundering Republic, or
not, she, it is to be hoped, will take care that
we flftll not be rendered unable to pay what
is due her by the people of the United States.
Let what will be the policy of Europe with
refpeft to us, it it necefTary we /hould be
united, independent and firm, by which we
may avert aartger ; whereas n contrary con
duft will make us cafily fall a prey to the
merciless fangs of foreign enemies. I feel
a patriotic pride rn knowing that the depre
dations and injuries done us by France,
have left but one sentiment among the bulk
of my countrymen, who, (with afeivtxcep
tions) are prepared and determined to repel
further aggrefiion to the last drop of their
blood. We have ftifl in our bosom some
patricidal vipers ! We all well know the
men !-» In the hour of danger, let them
be off! oi»TREMBLE ! ! !
PATkIOTICUS.
I N D I J.
To the Editor of the Caicutta Gazetti.
sir, ,
Your paper was formerly the channel of va
rious translations from the Persian and
other Afiatick languages. I enclose one_
from a Persian author, whose works are
held in the highest esteem, both for their
[ elegance, and praftical rules of conduit,
i It is not literally translated ; but contains
1 the fubftjnee in an Englilh drtfs, which
( I «onceive to be best calculated for an
, English reader. If approved, I may
t hereafter fend you various other paVts of
: his writings, which embrace a great vari
r " ety of interesting fubjefts.
PERSICUS.
t Calcutta, Sept. r, 1795.
1 ON THE IMPORTANCE OP QUALIFICATION
1 FOR PUBLIC OFFICES.
1 Fnm tb» PERSIAN of ABOOL-FUZZUT.
1 POWER is a sacred trust committed in
, to the hands of the cjiofen few, for the pro
, tcftion and happiness of the many. Be
; careful, ye cleft, so to discharge the trust
committed to yoa, that vier. called upon
to render an account of it, you may not be
found-deficient.
Among other prerogatives of power one,
not the least in importance, is the appoint
ment to public offices. This, as it is ex
posed to much temptation, requires enlight
ened understanding, pure principle, and firm
resolution, to avoid abufesip the application
of it. To the eye of reflection, however,
the nature and coni'equercce of this branch of
human government are evident, ijor will a
drift adherence to the proper use of it be
difficult when a just impression has been re
ceived of the serious evils that spring from
its misapplication. Good rulers and wife
legfftators may enaft the bed laws, but if
regard be not paid to the feleftion of proper
men for the execution of them, they avail
nothing to the community, and often times
become the cloak of victf; the source of
greater evils than these were intended to
prevent. Above all, the due qualification
of judicial officers, the civil judge, and the
criminal defaand3 the mod par
ticular attentimi. If in any department of
the public service a regard to charafter, ta
lents, and habfts, be
necefTary, it is most eflentially requiiite in
the adminidration of justice. In this the
ruler is truly the vicegerent of God upon
earth ; and if he negleft the sacred duties
of his station, by delegating through frierid
fhip, favor, or felf-intereft, a portion of his
authority to men incapable of direfting it to
its proper end, {hall he not be answerable
to his heavenly judge for all the consequen
ces proceeding from his wilful breach <of
trust ? Rcfleft on this ye rulers of the earth !
and in the diftribtition of your patronage
tremble at the thought of being parties in
the misdeeds of unworthy officers of you*-
appointment. You are yourselves the foun
tains of judice through your refpeftive king- j
doms, and if the dreams which flow from
[ you be pure, fertilized and beautiful, will
j be your territories ; happy and grateful your
| people ; but if the current be polluted at its
fource> what hope is there that in its course
it will become purified ? It mud every
where impart its pedilential dregs, and uni
versal corruption is the natutal consequence.
To speak more plainly, judicial funftions
cannot be exercised without wisdom pro
portionate to the sphere of duty ; virtue to
resist every temptation to partiality ; and
zeal and aftivity to overcome indolence and
dimulate exertion. The magistrate who
unites these qualifications is a father to the
people under his care, and reflefts the highed
honor on the prince who appointed him.
But any considerable defeft in their effenYal
requisites, entails injury, loss, and perhaps
ruin on thousands : whether ignorance, vice,
or lethargy, fill the awful feat of jtidice, the
consequences to the fuffering multitude are
nearly the fame. The usurped rod of pow
er becomes the scourge of the human race,
and the unhappy viftims, who perhaps fee
not the arm that holds it, are either driven
by despair to the dandard of rebellion ; or,
in the hope of more benignant dominion,
transfer their property and their labour tb a
foreign land.
These art a fiw of the evils of disqualifi
cation in judicial, and other public officers.
I have elsewhere dated more particularly
the qualifications required in the leveral offi
cers of the royal household, the army, and
the civil government. What I have now
fuccinftly added, will, I trud, fuffice to
(hew the importance, the indifpeafable obli
gation of attention to the personal charafter
of every one intruded with a public funfti
on ; and especially with the adminidration
of judice. Truly has it been said that " as
lenity to the criminal is cruelty to the com
munity infeded by him ; so kindness or hu
manity in the appointment of an unworthy
public officer, is unkind and inhuman to the
millions who may fuffer from his defefts."
An UMBRELLA
WAS, taken (supposed to have beeil ftolefi) on
Sunday evening last, from the house occupied by
Mr, B!unt, Mo. 9, Strawburj-dreet:—lt is a gresn
fi'k Uglbrella, of tbi middle size, with a ted mo
rocco top and hooked ivory head.—Ccoeeiving it
to have been taken by some pilfering knave, wbo,
afluated by pecuniary motives, endeavor to
vend tlie fame, any person or persons to whom the
said Umbre 111 may be offered, are defir;d to ft op it;
and it is hoped, will apprehend and convift she
thiel to justice. The peculiarity of the Umbrella
will, evidently, fubjexft the poflcflor to deteftiorf ;
therefore, whoever apprehends the fame and deliv
ers it at Mr. Blunt's, from whence it was taken,
or at Mr. Fenno's office, fjiall be handsomely re
warded. OA. 3. —djt
LOS T,
ON the Frankford toad, a Gamel*9 hair Shawl.
Ary person who will return it to the Printer, (hall
have a reafpn"iMe reward. fy. 3. —dflt
From Marseilles.
THE CARGO
Of the Swedifli barque Ctifhvus Adolphus, from
Marseilles, coiififtir.g of the following articles,
is difchargintj at Mr, Latimer's wharf, and for
sale by the fubfenbers
BUANDY, well flavored, of a, 3 & 4th proof
Claret, in hogsheads 1
Ditto, in cases
Fronligmu' Wine, in cases ef 30 bottles
Olive Oil, of a superior quality, in lafkets of 6
and iz bottles
Cantrs
Olives
- Almonds
Dry Verdigreife
Writing Paper
Umbrellas (Silk) of 28, 3c and 31 inches
Tafleties
Long and fliort -white Kid Gloves for Women
Silk Stockirgs
Handkerchiefs, in imitation of Madxafo
Artificial Flowers and Garlands
Ostrich Feathers
Kibhor.s
Perfumery
Scented Ha : r-Powder and Pomatum
A/, 3nna in forts
Cream Tartar.
BENJAVIN MORGAN &
lIODERT ANDRIiWS-
Septemher 27. et>tf
Red Port Wine.
Just arrived, hy the brig Iris,- cupt Rhodes, frcm
Oporto,
Red Port Wine in pipes,hhejs. and cjuarter calks
cwt. Cork, for lale by
Philips, Cramond, & Co.
?V " 111 • '--"JU-fJ*."" im». <******£»
iiy this day's iVia i.
NEW-YORK, October 2.
LONDON NEWSto the 16thof Auguft>
is received by tl\e Portland, Capt. Hus
sey, from Bciftol, which file left the 17th.
Though our paper 3 are eight days later than
any heretofore received, they do not'con
tain much that is important—The pri
mary articles, however, are detailed in
the succeeding column's.
Foseign Intelligence.
CERNOWITTZ, July 6.
The rebels of Poland have chosen Bußow
inc as the theatre of their operations The
day before yelterday the'y entered that pro-,
vince in two divisions. Twenty five men
were taken, and a dragoon dangerously
wounded, by one of those parties.
The Poles are all on horseback, armed
with pistols and pike 3, ornamented with
small red flags. A corpora! who was re,
cruiting in the diftriftof Ehrhadh, was kil
led by the rebels.
LONDON, August 11.
Yesterday a Court of Direftors was held
at the East-India House, when the resigna
tion of Marquis Cornwallis, as Governor
General, was accepted. Adjourned till
Wednefday'neXt.
PARTIAL MUTINY.
A letter from Lisbon, dated the 12th of
July, (tates, that altho' the-reftof the squa
dron remained perfeaiy loyal, and under
the moll complete discipline, a mutiny had
begun to (hew itfelf on board the St. George
of 98 guns, commanded by capt. Peard,
but, by the spirited exertions of the officers
had been discovered and entirely fupprefled
before' it was carried ihto execution. The
trial of the ringleaders occupied the whole
'of B riday and Saturday, the 7th and Bth,
when, after a most impartial hearing, 4 of
them were condemned, and executed the
next fnorning. The followihg judicious or
der vtas given out by the admiral on Satur
day night :
GENERAL ORDER.
" Every ship in the fleet is to fend two
boats withan officerin each, and two marines
or soldiers properly armed in each boat, on
board his Majesty's ship the St. George, at
half pad seven to-morrow morning, to attend
a punilhment. The sentence is to be carri
ed into execution by the crew of the St.
George alone ; and no other (hips, as fs u
sual on similar occafiom, are to afiift in this
painful service, in order to mark the high
sense the Commander in Chief entertains of
the loyalty, fubordination of
the reft of the fleet, which he will not fail to
make known to the Lords Commiflioners of
the Admiralty, and request of their Lord
ships to lay it before the King. This me
morandum is to be read to the (hip's com
pany."
August 12.
ARMY OF ITALY.
Head-Quarters, at Milan,
August 1, 1797.
The Commander in Chief to the Executive Di
rectory. , ® ,
" Citizens Directors,
" After fifteen days fuccefsful navigation,
the fleet which failed from Venice, compo
sed of Teveral (hips of the line and some fri
gates, under the command of capt. Bourde,
having on board some troops, commanded
by Gen. Gentily, has anchored ill Corfu
road'. Four Venetian men «f war, which
were there, have joined the fqtiadron.
" On the 28th of June our troops were
disembarked, and took pofieflion of the forts
of Corfu, where they found 600 pieces of
cannon, the greater part of which were
brass. A great crowd stood on the fliors
to welcome our troops, with all that exulta
tion of joy and enthusiasm which ever a
nimates a people when they recover their'
liberty.
" At the head of this aflembly of people
was the Papa, or chief of the religion of the
country, and far advanced in years. He
approached gen. Gentily, ind said to him,
" Frenchman, you wiH find in this isle a
people ignorant of the Sciences and of the
Arts which diftingui(h nations J do not
however despise it op that account ; it may
one day become what it has been ; learn
from this book to refpedt it." The Gene
ral with much curiosity opened the bt/ok
which the Papa presented him, and was not
a little aftoniflied to find that it was the O
dyssey of Homer.
" The isles of Zante, Cephalonia, and St.
Maure, have the fame desires, and express
the fame wi(hes and the fame fentimenfs for
liberty. The tree oflibcrty is planted in e
very village ; Municipalities govern every
commune ; and these' people hope, under
the patronage of a great nation, to recover
those fci'ences, arts and commerce, which
they had loft under the tyranny of the Oli
garchs. >
" The isle of Corcyra; wss, according
to Homer, the country of the Princess
fica. Citizen A who deservedly en
joys a great refutation for his knowledge of
the Belle Lettres, informs me, that he is a
bout to embark, in order to plant the tri
coloured flag on the ruins of the palace of
DlyfTes. ,
" The chief of the Maniotes, the true
defendants of the Spartans, and who occu
py the peuinfuh 011 which the Cape Malpan
is situated, has sent some of the chiefs of the
country to me to express his strong desire
to fee some French (hips in his port, and to be
ufeful to the greit people.
(Signed)
" BUONAPARTE.'-
At a late hour hist night were received bv
express, the Paris journals of the 7th and
Bth in 8. andßrufiels papers to the 7th inft.
The molt material articles in. the French
papers- rclat'e to the renew:;! of tjie r.egocia-tion/ at Lisle. A letter from llyjt place, da
ted I.he 4-th -and iuferted in L'Eclair of the
Bth, fays—" The conferences, lately fuf-
for 12 days, have been renewed this
day, and some hopes yet remain for them. ;
It appears certain, hojvever, that the peace 1
still not take place until a proper undemand
ing between the councils and the direftory
shall r. e restored."
Upjn the fame topic of the Republican
Francois, a refpeftable journal, deemed half
official, fays—" As to peace, all that is
known on the fnbjeft is, that the negocia
tions, which have been suspended- iit Lisle
and Montebello, have been resumed,
through the exertions of the new minister
(M. Tfallyrand Perigord) are now aftually
in a g.iod train."
The Bred fqtiadron appears to be in a 1
vTet J;hed state, as the pay of the officers and
sailors is still greatly in arrear, and continual
complaints are made of the bad quality of
the provisions with which the fhrps are sup- '
pliefi.
The Hamburgh mail, which arrived this
morning, brings nothing of importance, ex
cept wig the repetition of the general opin
ion, that in consequence of the firmnefs and ,
address of the emperor and his allies, a
ptace, in vvhich England would be included, !
might be Shortly txpefted.
We are concerned to state the loss of the .
Artais frigate of 38 guns, Capt. Sir E. Na
gle, belonging to Sir E. Peilew's squadron, 1
on the coast of France. She was wrecked
at high water on a rock near the Isle de Rhe,
as She was looking into Rochelle. The
whole of the crew were providentially saved
by the reft of the squadron.
On the 29th of July, the Galatea and
Doris frigates carried into Cork, a French
privateer and two large Portuguese (hips
from thf Brazils taken by the privateer, said
to be worth i 20,0001. One of the ships
got on shore in Cork rivtr, and most of the
sugar will be loft ; (he had 900 bags
«f cotton, 450 chests and 300 barrels of fu-j
gar, with an immense quantity of hides on
board. It is reported a third Brazilman/is
come in. The privateer threw all her gi/ns
overboard in the chafe.
The present general eleftion in Ireland, it
is thought, will not cause a change of 20
rtprefentatives iiWthe house of commons, a
circumstance unexampled on any fqrmer sim
ilar occasion. AS THIS IS THE FIRST
TIME THAT THE PAPISTS HAVE
EXERCISED THE ELECTIVE
FRANCHISE IN THAT KINGDOM
SINCE THE REIGN OF QUEEN
ANNE, this clearly proves (they being so
numerous in Ireland) how highly pleased
w-rt with all the proceedings of the last
parliament.
The poor King of Sardinia's whole terri
torie»are in a terrible state of anarchy. In
many places the inhabitants are in insurrec
tion agamft the government, and stile them
selves sovereign people. Buonaparte affefts
to condemn their conduft, and threatens to
inarch agamft them.
On the 24th ult. the Diet had a meeting
at Ratifbon, in which the greater part of the
deputies delivered their opinion, that the
political and geographical integrity of the
empire ought to be infilled upon in the nego
ciation for peace.
• August 15.
We have received by express, the Paris
journal of the nth and 12th inft.
The following m*(Tage, which -appears in
the Redafteur will (hew that Portugal has
concluded PEACE with the French Re
public. The terms perhaps are not, fucb as
this country could have wished ; but let
them be what they will, they must be favor
able to our withes for peace ; for now our
negociations can make no prttext for delay
on account of the intefefts of our good and
faithful allies ! -
Mcjfage to the Council of Five Hundred.
" Citizens Representatives,
« The executive direftory has just de
creed and figncd a treaty of peace, conclud
ed ytfterday the 23d of the present month,
August 10, with Portugal, negociated in
the name of the French Republic, by citi
zen Charles Delacroix,,minifter plenipoten
tiary, invested with powers to this effeft by
a decree dated 30th MefTidor last, and in the
name of her faithful majesty the queen of
Portugal, by M. d'Aranjo, invested with
full powers, signed at the Palace Quelun,
June 10, 1797• The direftory has trans
mitted to you this treaty, in <executibn of
the 23d article of the constitution, and in
vites you to take it into your consideration,
" Annexed are copies of the refpeftives
powers of the plenipotentiary.'
(Signed)
CARNOT, President.
Secretary.
A meflage from the direftory, dated the
9th of August, in answer to erne which they
hod received from the council of five hun
dred, requesting information relative to the
march of the troops in the interior, was
sent, it appears, to that council on the fol
lowing day. This meflage, written in a tone
of confidence, and conscious reft'tude—
ftates, that the coalefed powers had lately
manifefted (apparently in consequence of
the manner in which the council of fi v e
hundred had condufted itfelf towards the
direftory,) as much Urdincfs in their pro
ceedings relative to the negociations, as they
at firft discovered readiness to enter iuto
them.
Nothing official has been published re
fpefting the negociations at Lisle : we are
told in Perlet's Journal, that they conti
nue with increased aftivity.
General Hoche, in a letter addreflcd to
the direftory, afFefts to juftify to that body
tiie orders given him for the march of the
troop 3 towards Paris. This he does by pre
tending that they were destined for an ex
pedition against Ireland.
La Fayette and his companions are not
yet at liberty. . It is said in the French pa
pers that the direftovy have inliftcd on the
performance of the emperor's promise to f.-t
them at liberty, atid have declared that they
(ha!! corrfider this a<3 of a pledge of
the sincerity of his pacific intensions.
The Genoese republic has changed its
narrte. It is now called the republic of Li
guria, 3nd this latter title the archbishop has
adopted in his liturgy. •
In fpeakingof the late conflift between
the direftory and the councils, which ap
pears in a great "measure to have subsided,
Dupont de Nemours fays: " The direftory,
or even the Vnajority b&it, never had the in
tention to produce so violent a commotion as
that which has taken place. Those who
d'refted the movement thought they could
themfelves, and meant only to di&ate
to others. They had taken and wished to
spread a panic. They are themselves, at
length, frightened-at the abyss to the brink
of which they have brought themselves and
us. The legislative body, on its part, wishes
only for peace, and the preservation of the
constitution : it is disposed to forget the :
; contempt it had experienced, and the injuries j
| it has been expired to, for the purpose of
insuring tranquility and thfcfafety of the re
public. It is possible, therefore, that we
may get out of this very Angular crisis, and
r be in a more formidable state to the enemy .
than we have been before ;.more attached r
j to that constitution which we have prelerved
inviolate, but whieh will also have preferred
, us by the judicious counterpoise of its com
ponent powers. The dawn of a peaceable
day appears to break forth at the end of this
tempestuous night."—L'Eclair.
This is the opinion of Dopont, who is
now president of the council os-Elders, and
who has therefore an opportunity of being ;
well informed on the fubjeft of the confer- ;
ences that have lately taken plaee between
the leaders of the two parties.
All the letters from the department of
north are filled with accounts of marches
and counter-marches of the troops intended
to aft in the interior. A considerable difla
tisfaftion prevails among these detachments,
and soldiers are engaged in continual disputes
—ftune taking part with, and others oppo
sing the views of the direftory. These quar
rels have already produced several encount
ers, in which many lives have been loft.
The accounts received frou France give
some reason to expeft, that the majority of
the Executive direftory have repented the
temerity of their past conduft, and are will
ing to favor the adoption of conciliatory
measures. Still, however, it remains to be
known, by whom the unconftitutior.al order
for the troops to march to Paris was given,
and byl what authority—for it is scarcely sup
posed that Hoche would take such a weight
ot responsibility upon himfelf. General
Hoche presumed to aft in contradiftion to
the positive orders which he had received
from the minister of war. The constitution,
it is certain, has been violated 011 a point of
the utmost importance j and if the legisla
ture wi(h to prevent similar violations in fu
ture, they mud enter into a full investigation
of the business, and hold up the culprits to
public indignation, if not to public jtunifh
ment.
Paris still enjoys a state of tranquility :
and the council of five hundred is engaged
in adopting every possible measure to ensure
its own fafety and the public peace. In the
fitting of Bth instant, it agreed to the pro
jeft for organising the guard appointed by
the constitution for its proteftion, and which
I*9 to be entirely exempt ftom the influence
of the direftory.
The fame fitting it was decreed, on the
motion of general Jourdan, that the direfto
ry should not have the power of placing any
commune in a state of siege, unless authorised
to do so by law of the legislative bodies.
His Britannic majesty, as eleftor of Han
over, has appointed baron Rheden, privy
counsellor of war, and direftorial minister
[ in the circle of Lowor Saxony, to be his
minister plenipotentiary at the congress for
the eonclufion of peace between Germany
and France.' /
This morning arrived a mail from the Lee
ward islands, brought to Falmouth by the
Portland packet, captain Leonard, in five
weeks and four day*
Two Hamburgh Mails remain due.
Mr. Grattan has addr-cfled a second letter
to his late Conftituetits, the Citizensof Dub
lin; it breathes the fame spirit as his former
letter, and concludes with assuring his fel
low citizens that they lhall always be sure of
his services, mental,and personal, in the com
mon cause in which they are engaged*
The precise distance from London to.
Lisle, by the rout which the Meflengers to
and from Lord Malmcfbury at that place,
of pacific negociation, conftantlv travel, is
about 151 miles, viz from London to Do
ver 7c, Dover to Calais 21, Calais tQ Liflt ,
58 ; Total 151. ■
BRISTOL, Aug. 17.
: Friday arrived in this city from London,
f Mr. Spillard, the celebrated Pedestrian Tra
veller, fo frequently mentioned in the Eu-
E ropean apd American publications,
s 1 ..... -
NEW-YORK. Oiloher 2.
g ,From the AP.(j US.
After the long dearth of Foreip 1 news, which
we left on the Bth of August at an eventful period,
' . the puh ic anxieties arc relieved for the mbment by
f the arrival of the (hip Portland cat HulTey, on
e Saturday evening, from Ani!>crd?.m, and Briitolin
e England, which lad pert file left on the 18th of
August (in ballall) bringing Bristol paperspf the
17th, and London papers of the 16th of that month.
Y From the r e papers we have given as mary extradts
n this day as poffihle, under our foreign head, and
shall continue them to narrow. \
The great outlines of the accounts are,
That the profpefls of fuccefiful negotiations for
PEACH had renewed in some measure, liotwith
'* (landing they had appeared in thr back ground for
feviral days, owing to a total f ffcvjimfur II days.
0 which recommenced on the nihof Auguft—dur
y ing which interval it is said the negotiators visited
their rcfpedlivc courts.
That Portugal has made a peace with France !
*" which peace (though the ,T-eliminaries do not ap
> pear) cannot be advantageous to great Britain.
fhat tranquility continued to r;ijm at Varwmau
)t gn the intrigues of the royalifb.
That th»re seemed to he a will) in the direftory
1 and council cf five hundred to close th- late family
e quarrel, by njiietiny each other on middle ground
-t —they had traced the march of the troops to gen.
y r Hoche': oriers, who said he Had marched them it
ft" Lvljn.l r by which mean* '.' ie .liieSory j
■ were chared" ol\the charge an-1 a reconci|i;tion
too!: place
Thai 3 per cent Consols were ;i J-,} at the last
dates.
None of our papers mention, that Lord Malrjef
hury had been to I.oo'lon, we therefore it
an e-ror. This breaking off ot the negotiations
would seem the lame as we heard by the 1; ft arri
val, as the renewal,is said to be on the 4th j
The accounts given thi\dsy are * rincipally from
the Briflol Journal of Auauft 17.
The Couriers of At.g. 9, sn d ro, con*aia
lengrhy report on the French finances, ar.d other
importal t matters which we (hall notice. It \yas
said that Gen. Hochc had refigctd in a pet, but
that his relignation was not accepted of.
The,« Stars" of .A ug 9 and 11 will also afford us
an interedingfclrition for t:> morrow, fhc King '
of fru.Tia has rvacnate<r Nuremberg.
Gen Sinicne had arrived at Porifmouth from St.;
Domingo. ... J
Sir C lurl<« Grey, K. &. «' spxpil+tefi Govern r
of the island of Guernsey, and aripur.f nancrs. '■
When the Portland left the Texcf, on the 35th ;
July, the Troops, cftimated at 40,C0r, were 011 '
board the Dutch Fleet in good order and ful-oidon
ation, in fight of the Britift fleet.
Frm tic DAILY ADyERTISER.
La Fayette and his companions are not yet at
liberty. It is said in the French papers, that the
of France have infilled en the peiform
ance of the emperdr's promile,
The Gonocfe republic has charged its name, it
is now cajled the Republic ot Lijuri^.
A le Kr fro i I.ifti of the 4th Aug. and insert
ed in L'Eclair, of the Sth fays, that the conferenc
es lately lufpended for I» day;, been renew
ed this day, ami some hopefiyet remain from them.
It appears certain h'.wever, that the peace will
not take place un il a pioper understanding be
tween the councils and the direiloryftall bi res
tored.
The Artois frigate of 38 gunt, capt Sir E. Na
gle, belonging to Sir E. Pcllew's squadron, was
lately loft on the coast of France ; 011 a rock near
the II!.' jf Rhe, as (he was looking into Rochelle.
His Britannic Maj«fty, as EleSor of Hanover,
has appointed Baron Phcien, privy cobnfeit®r at
war and directorial .ninitter in the circle of- Lower
azoa r , to be hismiriifter plenipotentiary at the
congress for the conclusion of peate bet a een Ger
many and France. r
%lje 0a sette.
PHILADELPHIA•,
TUESDAY EVENING, October 3.
. m . , ■_ . ■ - 1— ■■ ■ 1—
Total of Burials for 24 hours ending Sun
day at noon.
Grown Perlons. Childrm.
St. Mary's I o
Chriil Church I o
Friends' I o
German Reformed I a
Baptists I O
Potter's FHd o 1
City Hofpitai* IJ o
KenCngton o 1
Total 18 4
* Seven from the city antl fulrnrli.
Total of burials for 24 hours, ending yejler
day at noon.
St. Peter's o , t
First Prelbyterian I O
Second Vrefbyterian 3- I
Third Prelhytcrian 1 o
Associate Church a O
St. Mary's Church I e
Friends I O
German Lutherean 1 o
German Reformed X e
City Hofpiul* -3- -o
KenGngton o t
14 3
* One of theft from the effy •
DIED at New-CalUe, on Saturday last. His Ex- _
celUncy Gu.nkiko HtDsokD, Esq. Governor of the
State et' Delaware. '
AUTHENTIC.
We arc enabled contradidt, from au
thority the information published in our Fri
day's paper, of the 29th Stptember ult. con
tained in an extraft of a,lettei-, said to have
been received by the commanding ofiieer of
Fort Fayette, which dates, " That it ap
pears, iht inhabitants of Natches are in open
rebellion, and have dfplayed French colours."
"This information is wholly unfounded. The
inhabitants of Natches are at this moment
drongly attached (a very few excepted) to
the United States, the government and
laws thereof:—fof thid faft, they have re
cently gi-. en a striking proof—by fuffering
themselves to be restrained, at the intercejfiop
of Mr. Ellicot onh r froiij. an attempt to .0-
blige the' Spaaiarda, by force of arms, to e
vacuate tlie Natches,-and leave ihem vnckr
(he jurifdiSion of the' Ut>iitd Stales. They
are now waiting in *a date of tht* mod dis
agreeable suspense and anxiety for the due
fulfillment of the treaty." ,
Remarks and further information by the E
ditor.
The dory of this rebellion at the Natches,
| appears to have originated in information
; received by Qen. Wilkinfon, that about
,os Ga!lo-Americans near Kafcalkias or Ca
hokia had bound themselves bjc-an oath, to
observe certain rules and articles of a treason
able nature. That a candidate for this or
der was firft obliged to swear to secrecy, and
an obfervunce of these rules before being
made acqaainted with them or admitteo in
to the society—That one or two of them
had declared they were French and not Ame
rican citizens, and had got.a notion which
thiy weri circulating, that a French army
was on its route and would be there about
the 20th of Juney It was further faid—
that this confpiration had raised the flandard
of the French Republic, and called themselves
themselves the company of the fans culottes.
The Editor does not dute thisfrom autho
rity, but he pledges himfelf for the truth of
the fadts.
This confpiration oftcltofrle in the North
Wedern Territory, will efince to the pub
lic, the intention of the many visits made to |
that part of the United States by Frenrh
and Spanish cmijfaries—fome under color of
collecting natural curio/ities for Air. Adet—
others of makingphilofophical observations for
j the centralfchoot of same —arid a few of frad
-1 ing tuith the Indians.
I What will our ext'ir/i™ patriots,ourQhron
! icles, Arguss, Time-pieces, and Auroras
fay to this second iveflcrn (Zplrjion—this new
confirmation of the fydem of French rulers
fully exhibited by Genet'-; isdruftions and
: conduit, and ftrictlv persevered in bv his
: ;7 M- . '
fuceefibrs in office. Ar,d what ought we to *
tliink of certain legijlators, who furni(hed
some of these emifiaries. who produced this
last petty MsrreSi'jn with lettersof introduction, '
calculated, to obtain for them, from the peo
ple of our ivejlcrn country implicit confidence i
and the mod friendly reception for the
propaganda feed they have sown, the crop of i
which, as it would feemby the Pittfburg
accounty"will require a part of the army to
cut doirn.
ASiAULT on the LIBERTY of tfc,
7 PRESS. X :
/ i
( From the PHir.J)r>Er.rniA Gazzttk.
" Mr. Brown, i
" Having brought actions againd John- !
Fenno, junior, and William Cobbett, for ;
their publications against me in their pa- i
pers, I request you not to insert any thing i
in your paper which may be offered, in an- i
fwer to those publications, or in defence of <
my chara£ter. " BENJ. RUSH." 1
[Whatever imputation the Dr. may have i
fought to repel by instituting his prosecu
tion, I know not. But he will come ofF .
with the consolation of having fixed on 1
himfelt the very heavy one of commencing, (
in the land of liberty, a persecution of the :
prrfs, alike unfounded, unprincipled and I
unprecedented- j
The Dr. requests his friend Brown not 1
to publish any defence of his character—Thus i
implying that ne it to have been
attacked.—So far as relates to myfelf, this i
I think may be fafely denied. His do&rineS i
have been attacked with ridiuulc through i
me, because they have been held dangerous
if not fetal to society. But with regard
to his charadter, the cafe is now changed ;
and this daring and outrageous attempt to
crush a fellow-citizen for presuming to dif
fer" from him in Opinion* will, I prelume,
not only exonerate me in future from that
delicacy, in th;s refpeft, which, in what
ever has palled, has been mod fludioudy
observed ; but place it in a new point of
light to many of tboft even, who Jiave been
accudomed to look up to him as an Oracle,
both in politics and medicine.
The plain fad ij, that the Dr. still re- '
tains that fame principle of ambition and
that fame thirst for popularity, which has
ever didinguifhed him through life. His
great aim seems to have been to retire from
the praftice of medicine, with the fame of
an Efculapius, and to carry to his grave the
credit ot some wonderful discovery, which
(hall rank {iim with Harvey, or Chifelden, v
or Hunter, or Boyldon : But finding as he
advanced in life, that he had all along
grasped at what could never become other
than a shadow to him, which as he clutched
at it, vanifiied, and left on his mind no other
trace than, that of forgetfulnefs of what he
was in pursuit of, —luckily for him along
comes the French revolution, rendering 1
Blood the moll popular topic of conversati
on. Whether the firft rudiments of the
subsequent sublime discovery were drawn
from his correspondence with Condorcet,
BriiTot, and other fellow-philanthropifts and
philosophers, is of little moment. Certain
it is that about the very time these philan
thropic correspondents underwent the sans
culotte venefedtion, an opportunity offered
for him to break forth upon the aitonifhed
world, witli his discovery how to prolong a i
man'a illness for a good number of weeks,
or to carry him off, by drawing all the
blood out of his body. Immediately his
name was extolled as the father of medi- j
cine, the great philanthropist, the friend to j
mankind, by the afliduity of his frier.ds, :
and certain extraordinary means, which no -
man knows better how to avail himfelf of. j
Instantly empiricism took poflefllcm of the j
throne of medicine ; and the Dodtor and I
his apprentices drove about the city in their i
chariots, (heading blood in torrents where
ver they vfriit—till four youths under his
own tutelage, fell victims to that very dif
ordtr which his vast invention had reduced
is much under the power of medicine as
any (light cold." This naturally daggered
people; and men now.began to assume to
themselves the liberty of dying in their own
way, Or at any rate rather of the disease
than of the Dodtor. As the Dodtor, how
ever, failed Hot in a very main chance, the
opposition at this time did not so greatly
injure him : and the zeal of his friends con
soled him under the mortification of having
his ipfe dixit disputed. In vain did any one
represent that the honors claimed by the
Dodtor to a physician of Spain,
who had by the pradtice of them, procured
himfelf a transmission to posterity in a cele
brated romance. It was for a long time
dangerous to dispute the efficacy of the no
ble science of bleeding.
A more considerable opposition has since
arisen to the fyfteni of extravagant bleeding
—and men's eyes have finally been so open
ed, that no other man of the lead eminence
in the pradtice of medicine, is found hardy
enough to avow his co-incidence with this
great empiric. For the part I have borne
in the traufaclions which have brought on
the " prafecution," or rather persecution,
I might owe an apology to the public, con
sidering iny almu.t total unacquamtance
with medicine, but that I have been rather
the medium thaiv-the Originator : But let
any man, whatever his ignorance of medi
cine, who podefles fnfficient uriderdanding
to draw an inference froirt fed nnd praftic#,
enquire, Who loses seven patients out of
eight ? Who pompously announces or causes
to be annoucced the recovery of almofl
every individual cafe of bleeding ? The
answer is so plaiti, that he that runs may
read. Who are those men that lose sewed
patients ? The answer is, those that bleed
■ fp«ringly. Who is that physician who has
• loft one patient only out of seventy, and
that one, through disobedience of advice !
Let it be anfwercd, a. man that bleeds spar
; ingly.
Are these not fadts of public notoriety ?
s Are not murmurs, ag?ind unnatural cyurles
1 in the practice of rtiediclne, loud in ourea-.s
s —is it riot publicly and' openly said, th?,t
numbers have tlui3 untimely been hurried
into their graves— And Stall zrn'.man in a
land where! freedom of opinion and of
expressing that opiuiou is fantlioned by tha
laws, be only bullied out of the plain
conviftions of his understanding, Bui be
vexatio-ifly persecuted, for ridiculing th«
excess of what is granted to be, in its proper •
measure, valuable ? ■ .
The fa£t is, and I have before glanced
at it, that a grand fcherae of the Doctor's
ambition met a.rough blow in 1793, and in
1797 a repetition, which threatens in pro
grefsto caftthefchemeandits author into the
[lhadfr of obfeurity. This has been effected
through the medium of the Pref? —and the
press, therefore, is the firft obje& whereon
his vengeance is to be wreaked. Confciou*
as I am, of the pnreft views, and molt up
right intentions, I fliall await with entire
corhpofure the issue of a trial, which I have
no .doubt will complete the downfall of
quackery and empiricism ; and will at lea ft
be valuable in one point of view, as it will
serve to (hew on what ground (lands the
Liberty of, the Press ; —whether it is in
America an empty name or a valuable rea
lity—whether that to which this., .country
owes every poffeflion of which it can boast,
aye ! even its liberty and independence, {hall
be trampled under foot by groundlcfs pro
tections ; and all those barriers creeled by
the spirit of freedom, as entrenchments
round poverty and obfeurity, ag*inft the
pride of wealth and the iafolence of power,
ars to be rudily thrlift down, and a liberti
cide medical tribunal established on the
ruins of reason and the wrecks of common
'
COMMUNICATION.
Tt is ?. fa ft of a nature highly interefttng
and fingiiirr, that the chief of our blooci-let
ters is highly democratic, and that his fedh
ries bleed in a direst ratio to their political
concurrence with him. Does not this cu
rious circumstance afford room for a theory
ry quite as ingenious as that of the harmtny
of aliment, and many others of a like nature ?
and may we not fee in this dreadful propen
sity an onjen of what the reign «jf Jacobin
ism would produce ?
CITY tiUM-'iIA.L KEPORT,
From the 2d to 3d Oftober, in the morning.
Admitted, since last report,
Joseph Muehie, (Frenchman) unknown.
Mary Cavenaugh—Second near Catharine
street.
Sarah M'Coombe—lß6, South Water ft t.
, Patty Lyon—2s, Walnut street.
John F. Richard, 12, Stamper's alley.
Discharged since last report:
Margaret M'Clafkey, admitted 7th nit. .
Sarah Lo»g, 14th
Esther Launfon, 21ft
Maria Fisher, 28th
Died since last report:
1 - when admitted I pre
| vioustoadmiihon.
Jas. Montgomery sth ult. consumptive
James Moore, 29th 2 days.
Clarissa Graham, 30th I day.
Margaret Gueron 21ft' I day.
Remaining last report 58
Admitted fmce
63
Discharged 4
' Died '4 8
RemainsinHofpital. |g n k | 55
Five of whom are dangerous.
In erred since last report.
From city andiuburbs 5
Hospital 4
Total g
x Stephen Girard.
(Signed) Calkb Lownes.
JoHM CoNSELLY.
Publiihed by order of the Board,
Wm. MONTGOMERY, ;
Chairman pro tem.
Deaths in Baltimore on the 29th Sept. 5.
gazrttTTTJTine list.
Pout cf Philadelphia.
sßtirFu. Days
Ship Columbus, Vanick, Havanna 3a
Brig Eagle, Shields, Bourdeaux 58
Two Sifters, Paul. Curracoa
Schr, Nancy, Inman, . Georgetown
Industry, M'Kain, Klr.gfton
At New CaJlJe.
Ship Clothier, Gardner, Liverpool
Arrived at' the Fort.
Ship Commerce, Simmons, St. Bartholo
mews.
Brig Governor Brook, Baxter, Petit Guave
Sunday arrived in this port the snip Good
Friends, capt. Smith, in 49 days from Ain
fterdam, having left the Texel the' Ift of
August, at which time the Dutch fleet-were
lying at anchor at the mouth of the river.
Capt. Smith brought letters for the Secre
tary of State from Gen. Pinckney. Came
out'in c6mpany with the fliip Brothers, cap
tain Henderfon, for Philadelphia.
Sunday arrived" at Marcus Hook, the (hip
Clothier, capt. Gardrffr, and the fliip'Sey
mour, capt. , both from Liverpool, in
60 days.' Mr Samuel Emlen, a brother
ot Mr. George Dobfon, Mr. Harrifon, part
ner of Dr. Betton, and several cthers came
paifengersin these vefTels.
• Entered at tfie Cujlom Ifcufe r Ch jler.
Brig Thsrefina, London, from St. Thoma9
Two Sifters, Paul, Curracoa
New-York, Oftcber 2'.
ARRIVED. Days
Ship Portland, Huffey, Eriftol 40
Packet Aurora, Cahoone, Bristol 3
Brig Maay, for this port, fail
ed in company with cape iin Huffey.
Capt. Halley spoke nothing on his pas
sage, except a French pr'vateer from Bour
deaux, the Cafrnagnol of 20 guns, who
treated him politely and difmifled him. The
Carmagnole had taken a number of jiriz-.*,
among which were the Britift fa gar /hip
Commerce, from Jamaica ; sn Fn liftv trig
ft ith lumber, from Quebec ; and a Porta
gnefe cottar, (hip from The Brazil: to Liibon.Imported ift the (hip Manchester*
Beßjamln Siiewell, Mailer,
From Bourdeaux, and for sale 'oy the t'ubferiber,
Ko. ji Walnut Street.
Bonrdeaux Brandy
Irish market claret in cases Entitled to
Medoc wine, in do. Drawback.
Sauterfie, dp. do.
Thomas Murgatroyd.
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter ca(ks
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bigs
40CO bulhels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tHt&Stf.
To be foid at Public Vendue,.
To the bidder, at the house of Mr.
William Evans, the sign of the Indian
Queen, in the city of Baltimore, on the 2jth
day of Oiflober ne*t, at n o'clock, A. M
About seven thoufaud acres of land,
the property of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
Ijm;; between Keifter'«-town and Wellminfter,
com:«ort!y called Little (the turn
pike road rims through a conliderable part of
these lands) ttie traft begins about 17' miles
from Baltimore, within a f«*v hundred yards
of said IfcilWrVtown, and extends to the dlf
tance of about twenty-three miles from Balti
more, and lies on the main falls of Patapfico
river, from three to four miles thereon. Will,
be foirl in trails of one hundred and fifty to
three hundred acre. There.is a large propor
tion o,f meadoa-and wood land 011 cai.h trait,
I'orrie of them highly improved, with excellent
buildings and fine gr. fs.
N ALSO
A tract of seven hundred acres of
land, called Clover Farms, within five miles of
Bladenlhurg, ef.eemed vety good for Grass. ,
Richard Ponfonby,of Bladenlburgh, will (hew
this land to any person inclined to purchase.
ALSO,
A traft of land of about three hun
dred and thirty awes, within about two mile
and a half ok the President's house in the Fede
ral City. It i 3 nearly all wood land, and a fine 1
high prolpedl, from which may be fcen the
city of Walhington, Bladenlburgh, Alexandria
and a part of George-town, and many miles
down the Potomac river.' Mr. Richard Ponfon
by, of Bladenfburg, \fcill also flaew this land.
A liberal Aedit viill be given for the gieateft
part of the purchase money. ; foe terms will
be made known on the day ef sale.
. May 8
'
Just Received,
Biotri Batavfa (via Providence)
jA few Box«sof Spices, confilling of .•
Nutmegs, Cloves abd siace
For sale bv
WILLfNC-S r d FRAKCISi
Pcnn ftrcet. , .
May 30 dtf
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 319, High-Street.
GEORGE DAVIS,
T3EING biified for fomc time past in prepara-
D tionj for removing into h s proletit house, has
been under thcnocefiity of poftponinguntil this day
infcrmircgthogcutl.rneii Ot tließar gcrferally tkro'
the United States, that his spring importation of
law books is now arf-irlgcd and ready for lale, on
terms that he trusts will entitle him to the like pre
sence he has experienced sos several years past.
Catalogues, combining the mod varied collec
tjon ever imported ioto iliis country, are printed
and will be delivered 011 application.
June 37. , aaw 6w
City Comm 'tjjioncrs' Office,
June 11, 1797.
IN pu'rfuance of an ordinance, from the feleit
and common councils, pafied the nd day of
May lafl, appointing the city commiffionera,
and preferring their duties, feclicfn 9th,
NOTICii IS HEREBY GIVEN,
That the city is divided into five dittrifl!,
each to be under tbe fuperintendance of one of
the city commissioners, whoistobe individually
relponfible for the cleanliness of the fame\ and
are as follow.
Driftridt No> I. From the Couth fide of Ce
dar-flreet,to the north fide of Spruce-ftjeet, un
de rtbe fuptrintendence of Nathan Boys.
2. From the north fide of Spruce-ilreet, to
the north fide of Walnut-street, under the super
intendence of Hugh Roberts.
3. From the north fide to the south
; fide of H'igh-fireet, under the superintendence of
Joseph Claypoole.
' 4. From the north fide of High-street, to the
north fid' of Mnjbe r rj street, under the fuper
intendewreof William Moulder.
j. From the north fide of Mulberry-street to
the north fide of Vine-street, tinder the super
intendence of Nicholas Hicks-
Thecleaningof Hlghsfireet to be in common.
£5" A ftatccl meeting of tht city commission
ers is held at tbe Old Court House, in High
ftreet, every Ttrefday evening.at 5 o'clock
July 14. eoim
Stands for Draymen, Itfc.
In purjutnet of an Ordinance from the Sehfl and
Common Councils,bearing date the lid day of
April, 1797, providing for the appointment of
City Commissioners, <3c. Heft, the 15th.
THE following places are fixed upon by thf
said City Commissioners for Stands for
Draymen and their Horfea. )
In Vine-fireet, eastward of Front-street, on
both fides.
Saflafras, lligh,Chefnut and Walnut-fttreets,
eastward of Front-street, on the no.-th fide only.
Mulberry-flreet, south fide from Frpnt to
Thiid-flreet.
Front-ftrcat, east fide from Vine-street to
Eluith's alley-
Front-street, from opposite to Black Horse al
ley to Hamilton's stores, east fide.
Waler-ftreet, weft fide from the north end of
Stomper's or Moore's ftorts to Pine-llreet.
Penn-ftreet from Pine to Ce-Jar-ftreet, weft
fide.
Drawbridge, north fide, east of Front-street.
Spruce, Pine and South street?, eall of Frost
ftreet r south l'de.
Dock-street, between Walnut-street and the
flig stone crofiings, east fide, oppufite George
Orklev's.
Second-ftrcet, between Sailifras and Vine
streets, waft fide.
Fifth-flreet, east fide from Chefnut to Mul
berry (treets.
Safiafias-ftreet, from Third to Fourth-street,
east fide.
No drav or horse to Hand -within ten feet of
an v pump.
STANDS FOR HACKNET COACHES.
Pifie-ftreet, north fide from Fourth to Fifth
between Chefnut and Wainut
streets, weft.
Branch-street, north fide, between 1 hird and
fourth streets.
July 14. row&fim
A Literary Tr-s-at.
jf ujl publ'ijhed\ handsomely printed on ivritlr\g
paper, price l chilar,
\ new edition of that popular and entertaining
\Vorli, entitled
FORESTERS, an American Tate; being
a sequel to the hiflory of Johmßull, the Clo
thier—ln aferiesof letters to a friend, with the ad
dition of two letters, alluding tp recent political
i rarifa&ioas in America.
The following /'xtradl from the Clavh Allegories,
shews the principal characters that are introduced:
John Bull, the Kingdom of England
His .Mother; the Church of England
His Wife, the Parliament
His Sifter Peg, the Church of Scotland
His Brother Patrick, Ireland
Lewis, the Kingdom of France
His Miftrefe, the Old Conflitution
His n«\v Wife, the National keprefentation
Lord Strut, the Kingdom os-Spain
Nicholas Frag, the Dutch Republic
The Franks, the Freoch Republic
The Foresters, the United States of America
Robert Lumber, New-Hampfliire
John Codline, Maffachuletts
Humphrey Plowshare, dbntie&icnt
Roger Carrier, Rhode Island
Peter Bull Frog, New-York
Julius Casfar, New-jersey
William Broadbrim, Pennsylvania
Caflimar, Delaware
Walter Pipewood, Virginia
His Grandson, George Washington
Peter Pitch, Nvrth Carolina
Charles Indigo, oouth Carolina ,
George Truily, Georgia
Ethan Greenwood, Vermont
Hunter Longknife, Kentucky
Black Cattle, Slave*
Rats, Speculators
Mother Carey's Chickens, Jacobins
popular ami entertaining satirical hiflo
ry of Amarica is attributed to the Rev. Dr. Bel
knap. It has a great (hare of originality and a
boHnds with genuine humour. It is continued
down to the present time, and chwa&erifes those
late political tnnfa&ions which have caused so
much uneasiness in America.
Sold by H. and P. RICE, Bookseller, No. 16,
South Second Street, and No. 50, Marke* (beet.
June a 6. §
LAW BOOKS,
Latest London and Dublin Editions.
11. if P. RICE, Booksellers, ■
No. 16, South Second, and No. 50, Market street,
HAVE just received by the late arrivals from
London and Dublin, their spring importa
tion, confiding of a variety of the latest and most
approved 1 aw Books, which, added to those alrea
dy on hand, forms the most eitenfive colleflion ev
er offered for fa!e in this country. Thfcy thei eforc
beg leave to notia?, that from the nature of their
conne&iensin Dublin, they are enabled to felllrifh
(editions (as they have hitherto at the very
lowest prices. The following are among the latell
publications.
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, 1 xJ.i.
Peake's Cases at Nisi Prius ; Ridgeway's Reports
in the time of Lord Hardwickl; Floyer's Probers
Pradice in thfe Ecclefiaftlcal Courts; Barton's
Trcatifc on a Suit in Equity; Tidd's Praitice of
the gourt of King's Bench in Personal Actions, o
part* complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
on Uses ; modern Reports, 11 vols. London edi
tion.
H. and P. Rici cxpeS t# receive by the firft ar
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
Durnford and East's Reports, the ad part of Gil
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
new publications.
Jtlne 26.
The Hiflory of Pennfyivania,
By ROBERT PROUD,
IS now in the press, and will be publilhed,
with all convenient expedition, by ZiCHA
riah Poulson, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed propcfals, until the
work is ready for the fubferibers.
July 18. tawtf
Printed Calicoes.
JOHNMILLER, Jun. & Co.
No. 8 Cbefnut-Street,
Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly afilorted, very low on
(hort credit.
March 6. §
Richard and yantes Potter
HAVE removed their Counting House to No.
45, South Fifth-ftrcet.
rfuguft i. w&f6t
Lancaster, Harrijburgh Carlijle,
Sotppenjburg and Sttnbury
STAGES.
THE public are requeued to take notice, that
the partnerlhip which has for sometime sub
sisted betweoa Mathias Slough of Lancaster, and
William Geer, is now diHolved •. but, not as M.
Slough inftnuatesto the public without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fab
led from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 29th
December lad. a recital of which is not now deem
ed necessary. Any gentleman who wishes to be
more circumstantially informed of the merits of
this business, by applying to W. Geer may have
the perusal of M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Gccf is not perfedly juftifiahie in attaching him
felf to any'other person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
public were pleased to confer on the firft effort in
this business, VTilliam Qeer, in conjun&ion with
Meflrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention and dispatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can podibly exert. , '
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
render the passage fafe and commodious, inform
thole wnu wifti to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George Weed's, "the sign of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on ever/ Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster,
Carlisle and Shipjfcenfburg. The fare as hitherto
cftabliihed.
For the further accommodation of the public,
a Stage will .start every Werinefday from the house'
of Samuel Elder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
and return from thcoce and arrive at Harrifburg
every Saturday, so that pafl'engers destined for
Lancaflcror Philadelphia, inay proceed ou Mon-
WILLIAM GEER.
Lan caller. Jan. 17, 1797.
N. B. This Line of Stages Harts from thi?
house of William Ferroe, in Lancaster, on every
Tuefda'y and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
ceeding to the westward; and from the house of
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg every Wednes
day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns
from thence 011 every Thursday : performing the
fame routine «farly as in its tour from Philadel
phia. mwf
TO BE S O Li),
And p'ljfcjfton giver, immediately,
? A I'AHOh cwo story brick Houfe,handfomely
L fituatcdin Princeton. There are four rooms
g utitVa large entry on each floor, and five rooms in
Uie vrrct, a range of back buildings 51 feet in
g length, and a piazza of 57 feet. There is a pump
in tile yard, an excellent kitchen garden, at the
- farther end of which sre a carriage house and two
d ftab'les, one of which is new, 44 feet long, with
I flails in the two ftables'for 17 horses. The heal
1, thinefs and pleafantnefc ot its fituaiion, and the
1: number of genteel and agreeable families in and
near the town, reader it a defirahle rttreeat for a
gentleman from the city. The commodioufnefs of
the house, its centtal position, and the largen«if3 of
the tables,make itjevcry wayfuitablcforatavcrn.for
which it has always been confiJerd as a capital
ftaad. Inquire 011 the premises, of
ISAAC SNOWDEN.
IVincEtoo, Ang. 25. 9.9 —drwzawrf
N O T I C E. 7
IF Thvdit C'Hara, who some years fincekept
a School at the Nine Bridges, Queen's County, Eas
tern Shore, Maryland, he living, -he is hereby re
minded to call on, or write to, the Rev. AmVrofe
Marshal, near Warwick, Cecil County, Eastern
ShorCj Mary-land, from whom he will receive iit-
information.
Auttufi 4. - mw&f4w
City of Wulhington.
SCHEME
Of the Lattery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificent dwell ing-house 20,000 dollars,
& calh 30,000, ire ' 50,000
1 ditto 15,000 St east 15,000 , 40,000
I ditto 15,600 cafl) 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 Sz cafti 10,000 10,000
t ditto 5,000 &i cash 5,000 10,00 c
1 ditto 5,000 Sc east 5,000 io.oco
1 cash prize of po,ooo
® do. 5,000 each,are • 10,000
lo.do. 1,000 - - 10,00 c
ao do. 500 - - 10,000
> 00 dv. 100 - • 10,000
»oo do. 50 - - 10,000
400 do. x - - 10,000
1,000 do. ao - ao,ooo
15,00® do. to , J5«,ooo ;
J5»7.?9 Prize».
33,161 rilank«.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,00s
N. B. Tofavour thofewho. may take a quan
tity of Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
■but oni : ,
And approved notes, securing payment in either
mon«y or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received foi anynumbor not left than 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen ef
| chc private buildings to be ereited in the City of
Waftington—Two beautiful defigtis are already
, (eledted for the entire fronts on two of the.public
fquarrfs; from these drawiagf it i'propofed toerefl
two centre and r onrc*mer buildingSjas foonaspof
fible after this lottery isfold, and to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurtrs, in
the manner deferibed in the scheme for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduftion of 6ve per cent, will
(■ be made to defray theneceffary expenfesof prim
ing, jtc. and the fiirplus will be made a part of
C the fund inrcniied for the National University, to
be erefled within the city of Walhington.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the
Prizes, ire held by the Prcfidect and two Direct
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and ace valued at
more than half the amount of the lattery.
SAMUEL DLODGET.
' .5, Tickets may be had at the Bank ot Colum
bia ; of Jaracd Weft & (Jo. Baltimore; of Feter
' Oilman, Boston ; of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
* and of Richard Walls, Cooper's Ferry.
' 1 mwf
From f/te Oifego Herald.
CAUTION.
WHEREAS a combination of men in tbis
county havO undertaken to enrich th«m
fdves.by fabricating titles to fundr/ valuable trafll
of land, the property of gentlemen living in New
York, Philadelphia, London and Varis, for which
trafts of Islfd large funis of money have been paid
I to those fraudulent men, by innocent purthafers •
It is therefore jull that public information should
be given, to the end, that the injured may feikro
- dress while the nsen have property, and arc to Tie
found. Those who have been difcovrred are Tru
man Harrifon, Joseph Wittomb, said now to re
side in the county of Saratoga ; Thomas Kelly and
several others who go under fictitious names. It is
_ supposed that the lands offered fcr sale on those fa
bricated titles, are at lealt worth fifty thousand
' dollars. Such as we haveadtual knowledge of are
as follows : Lots No. XI and u, Otfego patent,
thousand acres each, the aflual property of William
Dfillwyn, how of London ; lots No. 58 and 64,
fame patent, thousand acres each, the property of
" Mr. Chaumont, now of Paris, and James Averill
and others, ot tbis State. There is some grounds
d to suppose that the lands of Richard Welis and
'• Charles'Wharton, of Philadelphia, are under their
i management. —The Printers will do well to give
" thi> a place in their papers, as well to caution l!ie
II public against purchasing tliofe lands, i\3alfotode
" prive those men in future from impofiQg on indivi
e dual's, which their education and addrels have en
's abled them to do here-ofore, Witcomb has been
e a fiiopkeeper of some note in this country.
e The following affidavits will set in a clear point
* of viewthc wicktdnefs of those men,which when
- the public have perufcd, will jndu«e them to ex
e cufe the interference of Wm. COOPER.
Otfego, July 18th, T 7y7.
I l honi3s Kelly, of the County of Otfego, hav
e ing been led into an error, by John Wit- cmb and
n Truman Harrifon, of the fame Cour.ty, to sign a
h deed to them, for lot No. 58, Otfego patent, which
d was the properry of William T. Franklinmow Mr.
Chamont's and others; ind further the said Joseph
and Truman did peifuade me to do this againlt my
inclination, which was made out on the icth day
d of November, 1793, or set back two years so as
o to bring it to that time ; and further the name of
n Pardon Starkstothnt deed was a fictitious name-,
e there being no such perton there. To this I make
* voluntary oath. THOMAS KELLY.
191 th July, 1797.
y On the 19th July, 1797, came personally before
;• me, Thomas Kelly, the subscriber to the above af
-0 fidavit, aud made folcnin oath that it contains noth
ing but the truth.
ELI'HD PHINNEY, Jufticc of the Peace,
e' On the *Bth July, 1797, came before me Jacob
- Kibby, a person by me well known and worthy of
good credit, who on his fol?mn oath did that
% two of the parties ahovementioned did malic ap
r plication to Kim this .deponent, some time inthe
- winter of 1796, to make them a deed for two thou
sand acres of land in the Otego patent, and pro
mised this deponent a (hare of the profits, on the
sale of said lands, for his so doing ; and th t they
s made appKcaticn/cveral times for the fame purpo e,
f which fervlces this deponent as often, refilled, de
- daring to them that he had no fight to lands, and
f could do no such thing ; which daring attempt on
- this daponent's integrity he had related among his
- frisnds several times, previous to making this affi
s davit. JACOB K.IBBEY.
: Sworn before mc,
ELIHU FHINNEY, Justice of tu* Peace.
Aug. 3. J3W4W.
Will be Lauded,
Fi*fcm on board the ship A&ive, Cap*.Blair,£rom,
Hamburgh,
ao bales-white R ultra clean Hemp
a calks Clover Seed
For Sale by
Thomas Herman Leuffer,
North Fifth llreet, No. 34.
Tune 26. £
William Blackburn,
LOTTERT and BROKER'S OFFJC <
No. 64 south Second Greet.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 11, which
commenced drawing the 29th. May, FOR
SALE. The price of tickets will rife in propor
• tion as the drawing advances, particularly on ac
count of the five firft drawn tickets, prizes of
four thousand dollars each, on the laft'day of
drawing.
Check Books kept for examination and regifler
ing, in the Canal, No. 2, City of Washington, No.
2, and Paterfon Lotteries.
Also, tickets forfale in the Schuylkill bridge and
Perk-.omeu Bridge lotteries, which will begin
drawing in the course of the Cummer.
The bufmefs of a Broker in all kinds of Stock,
Bills, Notes, Lands, &c- &c. t ran faded with the
utmost a:tcntion.
June 2 tu&f
Erfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No 40 South Stcond flreet,
£Price 31 Cents]
A Viciv of the Causes and Consequen
ces of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskine.
May 15 J
STATE TRIALS,
Sold b W. Young, Bookseller, No. s*, South Se
cond-flrect,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
CONtaining the impeachment, trial,and acctuit
al Judge of the Court of
A drmiralty, and John Nicholion, Comptroller Gen
eral—ln one large S vo. vol. Price, in boards, 3
dollars.
W. Young has for sale, a general aflortment of
Rooks. Also, Stationary, retail and by the pack
ege, well aflorted,and entitled to the drawback if
axpMted. July 7 —*
r HE SUBSCRIBER having been appointed by
the Envoy Exto-aordinary and Minister Pleni
potentiary of his Britannic Majesty, General Agent
IcJr aftifting Britifti creditors, and inch particular a
gents as they may fpcpially authorize, in profeouting
their claiius before the cammiflioners for carrying in
to effcCt the sixth article ot the Treaty of Amity, Com
merce and Navigation bdecccn his Britannic KajeJiy and
the United States of America, hereby gives notice that
he has opened His office at his house the south east
corner of Chefaut and fifth Greets, Philadelphia,
where he is ready to receive all claims or inftrudlions
for claims with the voucheis aud documents thereof,
for the purpose of bringing forward the fame agree
ably so the rules and orders which the board may
think proper to prescribe.
And a 1 it will be for the uitereft of all concerned,
that the several claims be so dated, and support
ed, as to prevent the delay which would arise from
j the neceflity of obtaining further information, or ad
; ditional material!,from periods residing at a distance,
the general agent thinks it his duty to add, (for. the
direction chiefly of ihofc, who, not having employ
ed particular agents, may leave the prosecution of
their claims to his charge and management) that all
such cairns ought in particular to set forth—
-1 ft. The proper description and fitnation of the
ctaditor or claimant, end original debtor, refped
ivelv.
sd. The date andnature of the origioal contract or
debt.
3d. When, in what manner, and to what extent,
the creditor or claimant wss prevented or impeded,
by the provision, operation or defett of law, the
deciiionsand praAice of courrs, or leftraintof exe
cution, from recovering payment of th£ d«bt in
queftior)*
4th. The loss and damage incurred or fyftained,
in confequer.ee of such impediments, whether the
fame may have arisen from the infolveney, change of
situation, or death of the debtor, the loss of legal
remedy from lapse of time, or othercaufes impairing
the value and security of the debt, which would not
have so operated if such impedimenta had notcxided.
And sth. The particular grounds and rcafons on
which t,he claimant maintains, in the terms of the
treaty, that " by the ordinary course ot judicial pro
ings, the creditor cannot now obtain and a&ually
have and receive full and adequate com pen fa tion" lor
the losses and damages so fultaiucd.
The general agent thinks it his duty further to fug
ged that the several claims to be accompanied
and iupported by the affidavits of the claimants duly
I'worn and regularly attested, both as to the exigence
of the debts claimed, and such other circumfhnces
as m*y be within their own knowledge refpefttVely,
And wherever the claimants in dating the nature ot
their evidence (whithmuflin every instance be the
best of which the cafe is capable) have occafiori to
refer to the teliimony of witneftes, it will'be proper
to a'pprife the general agent of the names and places
of residence of such witnellesand the fadlsto be elta
blifhcd by their teliimony.
Wm. Moore Smith.
Philadelphia, June Bth, 1797. d
I'or Sale,
That «vell known place, called Vandkqrift's
F P R R Y,
ON Nelhaminy creek, 18 miles from Phili
ladelphia, on the New York post road,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
pretniles are a large two ltory stone house occu L
pied as a tvern, and a good one ltory itone kit
chen, a large frame liable Vvith a good threfliing
floor, and some out buildings—also a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. "On
this place is a moll elegant situation fora gentle
man's sept, commanding a view of! the Nefliam
iny toits junction wiih the Delawa»e, and thence
acrofs'to the Jerfcy shore. It has the privilege
of one half the toll received frort, the bridge.
For terms apply to the Snhfcriber,
MORCLCAI LEWIS.
yav n- atawtf.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GKOOMBRIDGE with much pleas
ure and rtfpeit, returns her lincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
Ihe has received during four years refulenee in
Philadelphia* and allures her friend? aiul the
public, so far from intending to decline her
i'chool, fne has made a fupenor arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars.—Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended, to by Mr?.
Gi oombridge and matters excelling in their
refpe&ive profrffions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June 51b, 1797. Jimfcf
The situation is pcrfeCTly bealtky ; and made
more agreeable by an extenfrve garden and lot
of grr.uijd adjoining, the lioufe.
Fujifuji Pubtifhcd,
And to be bad o( Messrs. Dofcfen, Campbell,Rice,
Gary, aivd the other pricipal Eookfellcr. in the
city.prict.one dollar, rwißty-f.ve cents,in aoarils,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of AmerLca.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, m. d.
Jvne so. * '6t
Rofs Simfon,
—have for. sale— »
r Hogsheads,
Excellent Coffee in< Tierces, and
d. Earrels.
A small parcel of nice cocoa in baps
1 few puncheons Jamaica spirits, fourth 'proof *
Superior Teneriflec wine, old ari-i in Madeira pipes
An invoice of jewellery and hosiery to be fold by
th-package
A few hampers of bcflEnJifh cheese.
T"'y. JTj _ ,i t s.
The Subscriber has for Sale,
A large ai]brtmerft »f India Mulling,
coarl'e and fine
India Calicoes
Sooty Roraalls
B'ue Cloths and Checks*
Bandanna Hlndkerchiefs
Blue red and Gilli Handkerchiefs
An irivoice of Irifli Linens and sheetings, well
aflorted
A box of Diapers
Silk Umbrellas
two boxes ef fine Spices, cotaining Nutmeg*,
Mace and Cloves
Black Pepper of firft quality
East India Ginger
Java Sugar
A quantity of Madeira Wine
Ditto of Gin
Roll Brimilone
Mordecai Lewis.
j 2. law tin
Biggins' Specific
FOR THB
PREVENTION AND CURE OF THB
YELLOW FEVER.
EVER since this difcafe made fijc!) ravages in this'
i city and New-York, the author lias turned his
ttention to its caufei and cure.—The result of his
enquiries has convinced him that ?he reason why so
few persons recover from its attacks, are (rum its
not being well underllood, and the confcquent
wrong method taken to cure it. He is persuaded
that theexceffive bleedigr.s and mercurial reatment
of the Faculty is highly injurious, and that the on- t
ly rational mode of treatment is by theufe of proper
acids. Convinced of this he offers his Specific as a
certain remedy, if ufei according to the dirtilions.
To be had in bottlqe, at one dollar each, of the
inventor Geo. Higgins, Cherry flreet, two doors a
bove Ninth street, (iate manager of Jackson and
Co's Medicine Warehouse, London); by J. Le—
Hate, No. 2'6; tV. Griffith, Ho. 177, T. Pearcc, No.,
21, South Third street, T. Stiffs No. 55, New street,,
near Vine street, andy. Gales, No. 36, Race street.
Aug. 25. tuths jt
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, and
CONSUMPTIONS.
Jufl received, by Wm, Griffiths, No. 177, South
Second-street, a frefh fupply"of
Genuine Balsam of Honey,
A Medicine invented by the late Sir John Hil?l
(who knowledge as aßotanift procured liinn
the appellation of. the Linnsus of Britain) and i l
•onftdered in England a? a certain cure for the abovet
complaints ; it is also of Angular efficacy in thtly
Hooping Cough,
It may also be had retail of W. A. Stokes, N<r.,
61, South Second-street, and T. Stiff, 55, New-i
ftrtet, in bottles at 75 cents each.
Wm. Griffiths having observed the happy e£>
fefl of the medicine, (fcveral cases of cures hav
ing come within his own knowledge) and the great ,
demand for it has induced him to order a large
supply, a part of which he has just received.
u JI 3- law^w
30 Dollars Reward.
RAN away on Satu*day last, two indented Ser
vants, Gifford Daily, a mulatto b<jy, about i 7
years of age, a slim light built aelive ftfllow, can
read and write,five feet seven or eight inches high,
has a heavy countenance; had on a ful'tian eoatcc
and trowfers, a high crowned hat, fine shoes &c. *
Allan Hellons, a black man, about 24 years of
age, five feet seven or eight inches high, a thick set
clu nfy built fellow, particularly about the breech;
had on a faiior's blue jacket lined with jwanlkin,
dark striped vest, fuftian trowfers, high crowned
hat, coarse (hoes, &c.; each of them had ievcral
Aiirtsand several other cloithes with them. Thii
ty Dollars will be paid for the runaways, or 15 dol
lars for each, and reasonable charges, oh delivering
them at No. 54, North Third-itreet.
v The black fellow is about a year from Lewi*
Town, in the County of SufTcx, state of Dela
ware, and ha§ taken the boy with him.
July 3 1 - mtu&f^w
To be SOLD or RENTED,
ALAIROE 3 Story Brick House, on the
South fide of Filbert street, between
Eighth and Ninth, lately occupied as the Sur
veyor General's Office. t
The Building is 36 ft?et front and 35 feet <Je«p,
the lot 1 10 feet deep, with the privilege of a nine
feet wide Alley extending the whole length of
the lot, to a thirty feet wide Court for Carriages
to turn in. The.House is-not flattered, and
may be turned either into one, or two dwelling
Houses. It fuitahle for a large Manufadlory,
or would make a good Tavern.' Immediate
pofieffion will he given.
Apply to No. in, Chefnut-Street.
Aug. 11. corf 41 .
Muftcal Injlrument Manufactory,
No, 167, drch'Street,
HARPER, harpsichord, grand, portable gra*/d,
fid>fcoard, pier table and square piano lor»e
malar from London, returns thanks to his friends
and the pyblic, Tor their liberal encouragement.,
and hopes that by his afiicluity and atventien to ev
ery branch of his bv.Qn'efs, to merit a continuance
of their f«vors. Piano fortes made on the newest
and most approved plans, with pedals, paten f r
swell, and French harp stop, which hefly.tteis
himfelf wi!l we found on trisl by unprejudiced
judg?s,to be equal if not superior to any import
ed, and twenty per cent cheaper. Any inilm
m nt purchased of him, if not approved of in
twelve months, he will exchange.
N. B. All kinds of Muficai mflruments !r.r.de,
uncd, and repairer with the greattft accuracy,.
d>fpat-h, and on the'moll reafonab-le ternu, tjf
ready money oniy.
Second
May qr. ' & 2 m.
Forty Dollars; Reward.
RAN away from the fubleribcr 011 the fee
ondd.iyof this imi. July, a Mulatto Man,
named Will Bowzer, about forty years of age,
five feet seven or eight inches high, rather
chunky made ; had on when he went a,« ay, a
drab colored cloth coat, flriped purple trowfers
and jacket, it is probable h« will change hi*
claathea, ss he took a number with him. The
fat.l fallow formfrly betengeti to Mr- Charles
Blake of this place; and it is expedletl i.e has
madts tuwards Jones's Neck, in the Delaware
State.—Any perfen apprehending the feiri fel
low, and fee 11 ring him so that] can get him a
gain, lhall receive the above rewari if taken
Out of the county, and Twenty Dollars if in
the county, and all recfoirable charges if bro't
home.
JESSE REED,
Ana's County, Maryland.
July 3-