of the sEtttfCU & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1465.]
For Charter,
|g|i /EIUAL,
rlrsSSy? John Tjrk\s, Majler,
NOW lying at Albertfon's wharf, South
vn-k —burthen 3300 barrel*, in compleat
order to take in a-cargo.
tor terms apply to
Gurney & Smith.
May 15 $ j
United States, «•
fennfyhania Di/!rifl,
Notice is hereby given. s
»~pH AT in purfaanee ol a writ to m« direfled
.L from the honoraMe Richard Peters, Esq.
judge of the Diftria Court of the Cnited States
in and for the Prnnfylvania DiftriA. will be ex- '
posed to sale at the merchants' coffee-houfe in this
city, on the 17th day of this instant, way, at 11 r
o'clock at nocn, _ .
c^>o ° ncT " r '$ ca '""
TH' E BETSEY,
With all and flnuular her tac
kel, apparel and furniture (whereof an inventory
may be seen at my office) the fame haying 'seen
libelled against and condemned intha said Difriwl
Court, fur th ■ payment of mariner's wages, &c.
William Nichols, Marjhal. \
MARSfIAL'jOJFICt,'} eOI7M 1
17th May, X 797. 5 ,
-- , . .
For iviadeira,
K D W A R D,
fumes itichhar.i, Majler.
WILL fail in about Eight days, having
three-fourths of her cargo engaged. For
freight or pafTage, apply to the captain on
board, at Stamper's wharf, or the Subfcnber.
John Donnaldfon.
May 11.
N B. The Edward is intended to return di
re<st to this port, and will take in freight at
Madeira.
For sale,
Ijggffir—■ The fajl failing Schooner
White-oak frame—built in the
nltc of Virginia in the year *79^ —37 feet 3
inches keel, 17 feet 10 inches beam, 8 feet 3
inches hold—burthen 90 tons—is said to carry
600 barrels—completely fitted and ready to re
ceives cargo : For further particulars enquire of
Rofs and Simfon, No. 111, South Fj-ont-ftj-eet.
April 3 < ■
For St. Croix,
To Jjffi i'n eight days,
THE BRIG
* a T\vins,
Matthkw Ke'sliß, Matter,
f.r
on wharf.
May 6. y $
j—, For Baltimore,
• 7he Ship
lW*Wk- Harriot,
■) thoMas moor*, Commander;
A fine faf: lailing (h'P*. and » t*pe<*« dto fl '' , the
Hit infe. Frt ight will be uken very low if im
mediately applied for, to the captain on board at
Willcox's wharf, «r to
Peter Kubn.
N. B. The consignees of good* on board the a
fcovc (hip from Hamburg, will please to be expe
dition in delivering their permits, as.(he is now
discharging. ,
May 17-
Rofs 6c Minion,
Have for Sale,
a quantity of PRIM*
St. Domingo Cotton,
Superior Old Lllbon Wine in Pipes
Excellent India Market
TenerifFe Wine,
In Madeira Calks
A few Quartet Chests bell
Fresh Hyton and ) TEAS
Hyson Skin 5 ,
Muscovado Sugars in Hoglheads, and
Col Tee in Tierces
March 7. ll^_
TO BE SOLD,
And pofTeifion given immediately,
A Lot of Land ;
SITUATED in Mount-Holly, in the county
of Burlington, in New-Jersey, lately occu
pied by Francis Bullus, Efquirc, upon which ara
an excellent brick house, two (lories hiyh, with
four convenient rooms on each floor, atfo a good
(table, carriage house and other buildings. Ihe
Gtuation is valuib'r for nufmeis of any kind, and
at least equal to ar.y other in tbc town.
The terms cf payment will be made easy to
the purchaser. Apply to William Roflell, Esq.
litre, John Perry, or Richard Coxe, merchants,
in or to the Subfcnber, in the city
of Burlington.
v JOSEPH M'ILVAINF.
Burlington, 17th April May 5
TO BE SOLD,
7be time of a Ulely NEGRO BOT,
Thirte. n years of age, and has about fourteen
years to f:rvfc. Enquire at the office of this ga
aette.
April 17. 5
fufl Imported,
IN the (hip Woodr&rt Kims, Capt. Hodpfon,
from Canton, and for sale lav the Subfcnb
er, at Mrs. Kinfey'a, corner of Second and
Pine-street,
Hvfon ")
Hyson Skin (Teas all frelti and o'
Young Hvfon acd ( excellent quality.
Gunpowder J
Alio,
A few Nankeens.
C.HAIGHT.
April 17 dti
PHILADELPHIA: FRIDAY EVENING, MAr 19, 1797.
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DR T GOODS.
_ ~ ? Forenoon—William Shannon. I
rl 5 Afternoon —John Connelly. f
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
f Forenoon —Edward Fox, No. j6,
„ , \ south Fropt-ftreet,
on Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 6j
South Front-flreet.
(' Forenoon—John ConneHy, Old City
rr r j j Auilion, No. 73 south Front-street.
luejdciy< tcrnoon —William Shannon, No.
183 High flreet.
, r , ( Aiternoon —Peter 3enfon, No. 74
WedHcfday | fou|h Third . ftrcetl
a-L n S Forenoon—Edward Fox.
J "J J Afternoon —John ConHelly.
Brig Oayosa
On Saturday, the 10th inft.
t^e ?rC ' >:l . ntS
At 7 o'clock in the evtning,
SHR will be in good order, having been just
hove down, and may take in a cargo im
mediately, andbe sent to sea at little or no ex
pense. Inventory to be fetn, and terms made
known at the time of sale.
Philad. May 18. $tS
Valuable Lands, Mills,
6cc. in Georgia.
On Saturday, the first day of July
next, at 7 o,clock in the evening, at th; Cof
fee houie in Philadelphia, will be fold by ;
audlion, for a liberal credit, the following
estates
In the State of Geo&gia.
No I.
A CERTAIN 7K/<CT OF LAND, com
taining 100,697 1-2 acres, fitnate in the
county of Montgomery, formerly the county of
Walhington, on the east fide of Ohoory river,
and the .waiters of the Altamaha, and about one (
mile above the mouth of Pendleton's creek, and
in the neighbourhood of Mill creek. The im
provements on this trail of land, confining of
the moll complete Grifi and Saw Mills in the
southern rountry, having cost at least 20,000
dollars withm these two years. The timber is
of the finelt quality, and the quagcity is not to
be exhausted.
2.
f A trail of very valuable land in Fraiklin
. lying orn the waters of Oconee, con
fining about 75,000 acres.
' ' _ 3-
S t#aS adjoining or near to No. a, contain
irg about 25,000 acres.
4-
Two millions and five hundred thousand aeres
of land, beirg an vndivided part of all that
tradl oi valaable country, iscluding lflands, si
tuated on the Mobile Bay, Albahama, Tom
Bigby, arid Miflifippi Rivers, which was grant
• ed by the State of Georgia to James Gunn, and
others, by the name of " The Georgia Compa
ny", in fee.
Thirty (bares in the Ttnr.efiee Company,
each (hare being about 10,000 acres, or one four
hundredth and twentieth part of the said Tcn
neffee Company's purchase, being so much of
the trail of country, granted by the State of
Georgia to Matthias Maher arid Zachsriah Cox,
iu fee.
• Qj" This piece of property may, in the op
tion of the purchaser, or his assigns, be offered
, to Zachariah Cox, forthe sum of i7s,ooodol
lars, in two years fro.n the 11ft March i*<) 6,
who is obliged by his fprcial bond, to take the
. fame, if offered to him, at that time, and pay
forthe fame, within fix months after the expir
ation of the said two years. 1 his bond is fold
with tne land.
By order of
henry Pratt,
7*. If. Francis, / Jfr r
cr 1 %rn ■ I Affig"'*' °f
Jacob Baker,
Edward Fox, Auctioneer.
May 15 . mwftS
1 To be Sold at Public Vendue,
At the Merchants* Coffee house, in Philadelphia,
on the 15th day of. June, at 8 o'clock in the
evening, it not bciore diffofod oi at -private
sale,
40,931 1-2 acres of land, on the
waters of Wheeling and Fiihing creeks, in Wash
y ington county, Pennsylvania. The foil is remark
-- ably fertile ; and*-efidcs a Urge l.ody of nieadow,
■3 there are considerable improvements on the pre
h mifes. These lands were patented in 1787. On
(1 payment of part of the purchase money, a reafoo
lf abN credit will be given for the reiidue. Enquire
d of the printer.
May IJ- |
0 To be fold at private lale,
I' a TWO dory dwelling houfc and lot of ground
®> /\ in the city of Burlinjton, (late of New-J.r-!
y fey, in a healthy and pleasant lituation. Th«
house is of brick, containing four goo.l sized rooms,
with a convenient kitcheH and cellar. The lot,
on which is a liable, &c. contains about an acr: of
_ land of the bell quality, with a fr«nt fufiicier.t to
admit two 01 th-« large houses, independent of
that part at prtfent occupied by the house.
For further particular-et-quire of Joseph M'll
n vaine, Esq. in Burlington, or Joseph Reed, No.
1 214, High-street, Philadelphia
May I i. cotw
Notice.
AGREEABLY to charter, is hereby given
to the members of " The Corporstion
J- forthe relief of poor and diftrefled Preibyterian
d Ministers, and of the poor andtMlrefltd widows
and chilJrtn of Prefcyterian Ministers," that
a meeting of said corporation will be holden
»f in the ftcoßdrrefjyterian church in the.city of
Phi adelphia, on ihc 23d iijdant, at 4 o'clock,
P M. for the dispatch ot ail l'uch buCnet as
L-nav then bs brought before the Board.
V ASHBFL GREEN,
Sec'ry of the. Corporation.
M»y 1. $
By John Fenno, N° 119 Chefnut Street
Millinery Room,
No. 136 Market-flreet. •
MISS CHXTSTAL
TAKES an early opportunity of acquainting
her Friends that (he has received by the
William Penn, a variety of NEW MIL
LINERY, &c. which (he hopes to be able to
(h -w them in a few days.
May 18 s3ot
A Quantity of Brandy, 1
FIRST & ad proof,
Gin, of 4th proof, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds
Old Hock, in cafe 6 of 40 dozen each <
Glass Tumblers, in pints and half-pints 1
Window Glass, in boxes, of different lues
Hazlenutß, in sacks
Whiting "J
Copperas ( in hhd ,
WhireLead C
& Spanifb Brown J j
For Sale by
PETER BLIGHT. J
January 4 j
Now Landing,
At Pratt's <wharf,
FROM on board the (hip Thomas ChtlkJey,
Capt. Rafer, from Bourdeaux,
CLARET in calks
Ditto in cases
White Wine Vinegar
Red Skins in boxes
For Sale by '
Rundle Ss° Leech.
M -y is § _ .
Important Public Document.
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
And for Sale (
At the Office of the Ed.tor oi the Gazette of the :
United States, (
No. ng Chefiiut-S;reet,
SKI »OLLAR AND Il»TV CIHTs]
' A FEW COP IBS OF THE
Receipts and Expenditures
OF THE UNITED STATES, 1
Fpr the Year 1795*
Being the I.atest Period to which an account t
can be made up. f
February ia. §. t
t
Erfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL St Co.
1 No 40 South Second street,
[Price 31 Cents]
A View of the Causes and Confequen- -
ces of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskine.
May ij § i
To be Sold,
A three Jlory brick House, -with suitable back
buildings ; '
SITUATE in Vine-ftrcet, No. 88, completely
fioifhed, and free or ground-rent: It has a
neat back yard, in which is a cistern, and new
pump for rain water—commodious cellars are un
derneath the whole, in which is a dry well bricked
up, that will hold ice. This property is well cal
culated for a boarding house. For particulars ap
ply at thepremifes.
Immediate pofleffion will bt giv*n, or so as to
suit a purchaser.
May ij. jawtf
TO BE SOLD,
A valuable three story Brick House ;
SITUATE in Lodge alley, next to the bank of
Pennsylvania, the lot on which it (lands, to
gether with the vacant lot adjoining, which ex
tends to Goforth-flreet. The house is about 50
feet in front on Lodge alley, and about 41 f««'
in depth, the adjoining lot is about 96 feet
front on Lodge alley, and 41 f. et on Goforth
(lreet, being a street which leads from Chefnut
ftreet and Carter's alley into Dock-ltreet at the
horle market. The house consists of ten lodg
ing rooms, with fix fire places, two dining
rooms, on« of them forty feet in length, the
other about thirty-four feet, each containing
two fire places, two parlours and a large kit
chen, with extenlive cellars under, and garrets
over the whole, a privilege of a vacant lot
of ground to the eastward between this house
and the bank, a pump of excellent water in the
yard, a handforoc piazza fronting the vacant
lot, and a frame liable and dwelling house on
Goforth-ftrect. The premises now rent for
£.318 per annum. To be fold clear of all in
cumbrances.
For terms apply to John Clement Stacker.
April 10 3 awt^
To be rented,
And*PoJfJJion given immediately,
A large, commodious Stone
Dwelling-Bouse,
STABLE, Coach-H«ul'e and Garden, fituttc at
the lower end of Germantown, about five
; and a half miles from the City.
Apply to
JOSEPH SHOEMAKER,
f No. 110 North SeconJ-Jlreet.
> May 18 4
To be fold cheap,
T0 close an adventure,
7 BaWs Baftas
% ditto Cofias
Apply at the Store of
Mordecai Lewis.
I M:y 16
I .
t Philadelphia and Lancaster 1 urn
> pike Company.
• A wetting of the Stockholders of the Phila
* I'.elphia and Lancaster Turnpike Company, will
be he! I at t)ie Company's Office, o;i Monday,
10 o'clock, the uthjune next.
WILLIAM GOVETT. Sec'ry.
May la. &■»«"•
Landing,
From the fchosner Swal/oti), Dome, majler,
from Gonaives, at Cliffnr/i's tuharf,
340 Bags COFFEE,
24 Bales COTTON.
For Sale by
John Clark.
No- 55 north Water-street.
May 18 §
Pennsylvania Population Com
pany.
NOTICE is hereby given to the Sharehold
ers, that a further afleflment ot fifteen
dollars is levied on each (hare, payable in the
following instalments —viz.
One quarter immediately.
One quarter on the ift of June.
One quarter on the ift September.
One quarter on the ift Dec. next.
Which they are requested to pay to the T-ea
furer of the Company at the Company's Office,
No. 53 north Fourth street, agreeably to tlii
times above mentioned j and they are further
informed that on their negledlisj; to pay the
fame as above direfled, the several forfeitures
directed by the Conllitution, willl be exadled
By order of the Board,
SOI. MARACHE,
Trcafurcr.
May 15 sim
A FEW BOXES OB
Bologna Sausages,
Of a superior quality, to be Sold at No.
199, Sjutb Front.Street.
April to, cots
William Haydon,
Drawing Majler, from London ;
WHERE he studied several years under one
of the most emine»t masters in that sci
ence. He attends young ladies and gentlemen
at their refpeiflive houses. His terms ara fix
dollars per month for attendance three times
per week ; like wife all kind of ornamental
painting, fruit, flowers, &c. taught on the above
terms.
A line direifted to W. Haydon, No. 26, Pear
street, will be immediately attended to.
W. H. flatters himfelf his terms will be par
ticularly advantageous, where there are several
pupils in the fame family ; as he makes no al
teration in his terms if there are two or three
to teach in one family.
May 9.
For Sale,
The time of an indented Negro Man Servant,
Who has nine years to serve ; can be wdl recom
mended for honelty and sobriety. Enquire at No.
117, Chefnut-ftreet.
May 15. d4t
For Sale,
A pair of Good Black Carriage Horses,
Which njay be seen by application at No. 124,
Spruee Street, between Second and Third.
May la. §.
Just received,
And (or sale by Isaac Harvey, jun. No. 5, South
Water-Mreet,
A parcel of prime Rice; also,
Trinidad and Cayenne Cotton
Coffee in Barrels and Bags
Spanish Hides and Beef.
4th mo. «$, 1797* W
Maurice Moynihan,
No. Si, North SecondJlreet,
A few doors above Arcs.-street,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he has
for vvholcfale or retail, on the lowed terms, a
genera! afTortment ef Queer's Ware, gilt ami cut
tumblers, plain aiid flowered'quart, pint, half pint
ijill and half gill do. fxacc meaiures, decanters and
wint glaifcs ; gal on, half gallon, quart and pint
bowls, and chi a in lets and separate ; pocket
bottles: Schuylkill and Jerley Country quart and
half g*llon bottles; Dry Grods, &c. &c
N. B. Crates pfitup with cars at the (horteft no
tice.
May IT dtf
This Day is Publilhed,
BY Me(T* Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the
other Booksellers,
rice One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
Elegantly printed on IVwe paper, and Hot
prijfed,
By John Thompson,
A COMPARATIVE VI£WOF
The Constitutions
Of the several States with ench other, and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of eaeh Constitution, and
claflitig together their most impertant provisions,
under the several heads «f admiiiiftration ; with
Notes and Observations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Carolina,
L L. D. and member of the Congrcfc of the
United States.
Dedicated to the l'cople of the United States.
N. B. A few Copies pyjitcd on an inferior pa
per, at ,;-4ths of a dollar.
February 6 mwf
For Sale,
ON board the (hip Molly, John Frost, mailer
lrom Liverpool, laying at Walnut-drcet wharf
6000 bushels of fine ftoved Salt,
And QUcEN'S well affined,
By PHILIP NICKLIN lit Co.
WHO HAVK IN STORK, ALSO FOR. SALE,
100 Boxes WhiteHavanui Sugars
Imperial »nd ) T ;
Hyson i
17 tubs Q."ictt(ilvcr
a chests Bandanno Handktrchiefs
A few cbeils Manchelle.- Goods well alTorted
in corduroys, tbickfrts, ginghams, nmflinets,
dimities, 9cc. > Trunks black sewing fiHt,
180 Crates queens ware, well aflbrted,
10 Tons iheet lead,
Nails aiTorted, Hat and (hjrp points,
London particular aud } Madeira Wine in
India market 5 P'P" ami hhds.
30 pipes, 10 hhds. Tensrifl'e Wiae,
to pipes chcice Port d.tlo,
1 31 ca(ks yellow paint,
, 7 Imxes 11 bundles writing (Utel,
I box ink-stands & note prelie»,
Fail canvas iiTortcd Nc. 1 i J.
dtf
JOHN CRAIG
HAS just imported from Rotterdam, via St.
Tho mas, and tor fal< on reasonable terms
by thepacfcagc,
Platillas Royal
Hacrlem and German linens
Roueris
l _ Pod and Pro Patrii Paper
Wafers
Quills
Oziera for Hsops, in Bundles
Coffee Bags
He has also for Sail,
Best Red Clover Seed
Old Madeira Wine, fit for immediate use
Ter.erifle Wine of firft and second Quality
Coffee in Bags and liogfliead*
Jamaica Spirits
Connecticut Turpentine Sdap
Window Glass
Two Trunks of best Patent, Silk and CotUn
Holiery
April i 8. 4.nw
NOW LANDING,
From on board of the (hip GEORGE' BAR
CLAY, Capt. Charlcs M'Alestek, from
Calcutta, the following GOODS, viz.
Coffas PunjUm Cloths
Hummums Gurrahs
Guzeenahs lottia Calicoes
Emertics Cotton Checks
Mamoodics Mulmuls
Sahans Red and Blue Eernigcu
hkfs
Tickeries Patna do.
. Jollas Santlpore do.
Carridarries Plain, flriped and flower
ed fine muflius
Maragunges Ginghams
Baftas, various forts Taffcties
Sattm Romals Bandanno red hks.
ALSO,
3QO Calks Sugar
40 Boxes do.
16s B-gs do.
70,000 lb. weight hraVy black Pepper
40,000 lb. weight Ginger
zo I'ons Hemp in Bales
9 Pipes Ealt-lndia b}vit-its
For sale by PHILIPS, CRAMOND W Co.
May 4. dtf
Received by the Indoftan,
From Madras,
A SMALL invoice cnnlifling of the following
Coast Goods, viz.
Blue Cloths
Long Cloths, 14 punjums
Do. do. si ie
Madrafs Handkerchiefs, and
Book Muilins
WILLING W FRANCIS.
March 17. 3aw.
Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co.
No. 8 Chefnut Street,
Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly assorted, very low on
fliort credit.
March 6. §
Laws of the U. h.
SWIFT's EDITION.
JuJl Publijhed,
Price 6 dollars, 3 vol nmo.
Sold by W. Young, Mills and Son, H. and
P. Rice, M. Carey, U. Campbell and Co.
Laws of the United States,
From commencement of the Federal Govern
ment to the end. oj the lafl ScJ/ion of Con-
J>re/sy which terminated Mirch 3, 1797.
THIS edition, publilhed under ar. order of
Congress of the United States, has many
peculiar advantages. In the former one, each
volume had a separate index, which rendered
the reference :n all cases, difficul* ar.d troubie
fonie, and in many almost impoflible The in
dexes were, moreover, very injudiciously com
piled On the contrary, in the present cd'tion,
j there is one copious, luminous index, com
piled by Xephaniah Swiss, lifq. referring to
all the volumes, and comprising in itfelf a com
plete digest of all the laws of the United States.
May 3. w&»7t
Caution.'
THE Public are hereby forewarned against
trusting the ftep-djughter of the Subscrib
er, and her mother, his fecor.d wife. Repeated
miftonducl compels him to forbid any person to
give them credit on his account, as he will pay
no debts as their contraifling after this date.
LUNO BUOWN.
Philadelphia, May 16, 1797 18—«fili3t
i
Venereal Complaints,
PUNCTUALLY attended to in every flage of
that difeafr, without the use of mercury or
reftrainr of diet, in any cafe recentand simple. on
application at No. 113, Chefnut-llrect, eppofite
the United States bank, or at No. i;o. South '.Va
ter-ftrect, between Spruce and Pine-flaeeti, where
he ha> opened an office for the better accommoda
tion of his patients.
Cut in Lues Venerea confirmed, Doilor Morgan
pledges himfelf, that no fyltem of cure (however
specious) can be efFc&ual without mercury, and
that all the known rules of pra&ice for thele two
centuries past, and imked experience affirms, th»t
any fubftitu'.e for it is but nugatory, and any mode'
of practice to the contrary mol be futile and de
ception.
Nevetthelefs, he undertakes, however compli
cated the cafe, to effefl a cure without inconve
nience or injury to the patient's conlli ution, and
in time not generally experienced or cxpeild.
N B. Regular attendance at the office in Watcr
fireet, from the hour df nine o'clock in the morn
ing until one, and from three o'clock ia the even
ing until seven; hut any o her time at hi. dwelling
house, in Chefuut ftrett.
, May 16. dtf
1 Thit Day it Pul/i/led,
Price 45 Cents,
By JOHN ORMROD, •
no. 41 cattxoT-sTstrtT,
A Discourse,
Delivered on the iid erf Febru'ry, 1*97,
At tL rjxr.a.iL of
The Rev. GILBERT TENNENT SNOWDEN,
Pallor of the Pwfbytr rian Church of Cranberry,
in the Si»te of Ncw.J.rfiv,
By the Rev. SAAtQEI. STANHOPE SMITH
D.D. Prcfl J er.t ps the Coll'ge of Nrwjerfey
Msrch II
[Volume XI.Xlje *
PHiIAV l. L P HIA 1
FRIDAY KVtNWG, MAY t 9
T<« Thomas Jeff-*son, Esquire, Vice
Prelident of the United States and Presi
dent of the Senate.
' Sir,
YOt- R arrival at the feat of government
immediately after the publication of a letter
said to written by ymi to your friend Maz
'n Italy, affords you a fair opportunity
ofdotng away any b?d imprefli.m refpefting
your charafter, which the falfeiy afcilhing trt
you improper fentimmts may hitherto have
qccaiio*ed. For the honor of the American
Dame. 1 would wish the letter to be a Forgery,
alth > 1 mult confefs, that your silence upon
the fubjeft, and the conduft of that pa>ty
with which you appear, at present, to aft,
leaves hut little probability of its not having
proceeded from your pen. If it is not your
produftion, an explicit disavowal of it ap
pears incumbent on you, for several reafous.
1. Because it implies a eontrsdiftion of
those fentimrntv, refpefting our excellent con
st 1 1ution, which you have formerly held, be
tore a disappointed ambition threw you
into the. hands of a desperate faftion, by
w.:ofe means you expefted, no doubt, to have
filled the firft office of our government.
2. Because it is a direst libel on therha
rafter of those men, whom the choice of a
free people called to the exercise of the ex
ecutive and judiciary powers of our govern
ment;— And,
3- Because its publication in a country,
from whose government and citizens we havt
met with every kind of injury and insult, has
a tendency to encourage a continuance qf
such conduft in our allies, from a pei ("nation,
that our internal situation would admit of its
exercise wiah impunity.
\ou dated truly when you reprefen'ed all
our proprietors of land as friendly to republi
can principles, and if you had gone further
and declared all our native citizens as faithful
to they had formed, and dif
f>ofed to defend their lights as an independent
uation, from the insidious attacks of foreign
foes, vou would have run no risque of a con.
tradiftion. It is to be sure unfortunate for
the ancient dominion of Virginia, that the
R,ames of the late secretary Randolph, Giles,
i.ladifon, Monroe & yourfelf are found in its
lolls of citizens; but whi'fl she pofleefls the
idoveri IVajh'mgton ; and the memory of his
great achievements and illulirious charafter
is cherished hy Americans, those names, like
fpeeks upon the fnn's diflc, wili be but tran
siently observed, and detraft but inconsider
ably ftom her Indie. But it probably suited
youi puipofe better to fay, " Our political
" si uation is prodigiously changed since you
" left us. Inffead of that noble love of li
" betty, and that republican government,
which carried us triumphantly through
the dangers of the war, an anglo-monarchi
" co-aristocratic party has ariftn. Their
avowed objeft is to impose on us the fub
llance, as they have already given us the
" form, of the British government. Never
thelcfs the principal body of our citizens
remain faithful to republican principles.
" All oui proprietor of lands are friendly
" to those principles, as also the mass of men
" of talents. We have against 11s (republi
-41 ca is) the executive power, the judiciary
" power (two of the three branches of our
" government) all the offi.-ers of government,
" all who are lacking offites, all timid men,
•' who piefer the calm of despotism to the
" tempeltuous sea of liberty, the British mer
" chants, and the Ameticans who trade on
«' British capitals, the ■ speculators, persons
iuterelled in the banks aiu'l public funds
«« (etfablifhments invented with views of cor
" ruption and to aflimilate lis to the British
" model in all its corrupt parts.)"
Supposing for an iuftant, what I can by no
means admit, that such is the present situa
tion of our country, is i», fir, the part of a
friend to his country—is it the part of a citi
zen, who had been frequently intruded with
the management bf public concerns, thus to
expefe the failings of his brethren—the wreak
and vulnerable part of his native land, to a
prattling foreigner, whose felf-confequence
and pride, abdrafted from any other motive,
might induce him to make an improper use
of this, at lead, veiy impru lent confidence ?
We have not forgotten the fin* theme, which
the precious confejjions of your countryman
Randolph fuinilhed to a former F'ench mini
ster, and ws can readily conceive, that your
letter, under the improving hand of an in
triguing Italian, may prove the source of ac
cumulating evils to the United Stjtei Have
we boi repeatedly shewn our attachment c«
the cause of liberty and to France ? Did
we not exert every muscle—drain every nerve,
to aflid her in eflabliftiing her right to make
Iter own form of government untrammelled by
the will of other nations?— And that too,
when those who now basely fawn by her fide,
and ignominioufly lick the dud from her sett,
were foremofl in their opposition to th» re
generation of 1 numerous people. Did we
not, for ajong time, patiently bear with the
cringing insolence of Genet—t!»e impertinent
fuggedions of Fauchet—and the dark and
insidious manoeuvres of Adet, without fhew
mg any intemperance of conduft at their be
haviour, 01 ceasing our good offices ts their
nation, or their compatriots ? True it it, fir,
that the feeble attempts of a rising republic,
■withont a navy or large dandingarmv, could
be of little service in battle, to either of the
contending parties—of this, in the commence
ment of her ltruggle, France seemed fully
sensible, and was aware of the advantage to
be derived from our remaining neutral. And
is it for this, we are charged by you with in
gratitude and injudice, and are those men,
whom you once thought Solcmont in council,
and Samp/ent in comlat, for this to be brand
ed by you, with the name of /Ipoflatct f
But I am perhaps intruding upon your
time, ai.d taking up some moments which
might be more profitably employed in atten
tion to poblic affairs ; I (lull therefore close
itSis lettcf, a irlfl, that if the writing
I afciibefl to yon is fpnrioaa it may bedif»wn
esl. In doiit j- this, yeu will render a justice
due to rorirfclfi and «;*e many of your fel
lor/ citizens, bnt no one more than
A NATIVE AMERICAN.
CONGRESS.
t „ i,,
HOUSE or REPRESENTATIVES,
IVtJnefdtty, Alay 18.
Mr. Coit moved that a Standing Commit
tee of rrvif.il and upfittifhed business be ap
pointed.
Mr. Hartley hoped such a fommittee
would not be appointed, as, if all the unfirtifh
ed business of lad feifion were to be reported
and afted upon, the fclTion would be pru
trafted to a length which he truded was not
the with of the members ef that house.
Mr. Coit observed, that the appointment
of such a committee did not infer that the
house would go into the confidcration of all
the unfir ifhed business which might be re
ported j but there might be some fuhjefts
which would require attention, particularly
any laws which might be about to expire.
Mr. Thatcher was opposed to the appoint
mei't of this committee ; he was agailt at
tending to any private business ; he wished
only to attend to the important fubjeft for
which they had been called together. As to
any laws being about to expire, he did not
believe there were any, as all fcich were at
tended to lad fifli >n.
Mr. Giles thought there was no neceflity
for this committee. He thought the question,
however, of some importance, as the decision
upon it would (hew whether rhe house in
tended to attend to ordinary bnfinefs, or
merely to that which would arise from the
.Speech of the Piefident For his part, he
wished to gc: away as soon as poflible, and,
therefore, to confine their business to that
fubjeft upon which they were called t» de
liberate ; and though the Speech contained
a variety of import .nt objefts, he hoped they
fh iuld soon be able to get through (hem.
He hoped, therefore, no bufir.efs would be
taken up until that was disposed of.
Mr. Sitgreaves said, the opposition to the
appointment of this committee was totally
without objeft. It should be recollefted, he
said, that the appointment of this committee
was a part of the (landing rules of tN* House;
unless it vere appointed, therefore, there
would be a contravention of a rule [Mr.. S.
read the rule}. For his own part, he was
net prepared to fay, with the gentleman
from Maffachufe ts (Mr. Thatcher) that
there wete no laws which Wv<uld expire be
fore the ntxt feflion of Congress It was
true, that these had been attended to lad
feflion ; but it was also true, that laws which
were passed for a limited time, were said to
be for so long, "and until the end of the next
feflion of Congress and this feflion, being
an extraordinary one, might put a period
to some of such laws. But, suppose this
were not the cafe, what mifchief, he asked,
could the appointment of this committee
effeft ? He could fee none. It would, by
reporti. the unfinifhed business, and any
expiring laws (if such there were) take the
trouble of enquiry from the house ; and,
when the business was reported, any part of
it might be taken up, or not, as the house
should determine. It might, therefore, be
of some advantage, but could be of no disad
vantage to appoir.t this committee.
Mr. Coit said, his principal objeft in the'
motion he had made, was to attend to ex
piring laws. The gentleman from Maffachu
i'etts was mistaken, when he averted no law
would expire before the next meeting of
Congress. One he resollefted ; there might
be others. It was a law palled May 6, 1796,
relative to Revenue Cutters, which was to
remain in force for onejyear.and from thence
to the end ofthe next feflion of Congress;
of course tt would expire, if no provision
was made to prevent it, with this feflion.
Mr. Thatcher withdrew his objections to
the motion.
Mr. Giles did not know that the appoint
ment of this committee would protraft the
feflion ; but if gentlemen attended to lh»
duties of this committe, they would find,
that if the house were to attend to all the
fubjefts upon which they were to report, it
would of neceflity occupy a eonliderable
length of time. [He read what these were.}
If, indeed, it were underdood, that thiscom
mittee was only to extend to expiring laws,
he should have no objection to its being ap
pointed ; but, should a general repott be
made, and the house aft upon it, the feflion
would be extended to a period beyond what
any member contemplated.
Mr. Hartley hoped the committee would
not be appointed, ss he said there wete from
goto TOO private cases on the lift of unfinifh
j ed business, to consider which would make
a long fefTton. If it were intended merely
to enquire what laws were expiring, he would
agree to it ; buTnot otfierwife. The rules
which wete before them, he said, we.ee in
tended only for their Ordinary annual feflions,
and not to govern an extraordinary meeting
; like the present. If this comirittee were ap
pointed, they might proceed to the appoin
! ment of a committee of claims. He hoped
they should not decide any thing, before they
had disposed of the President's speech.
Mr. Nicholas hoped this business would
be fettled fa as to meet the wishes of the
House. He hoped a committee would be
appointed and afterwards discharged from
all other parts of their duty except what re
lated to expiring laws.
The queition being put it was carried,
there being 5J votes in favor of it ; and a
committee of three wete appointed ac
cordingly.
Mr. Nicholas then moved that the eommittee
be discharged from" examining and reporting
from the journal of last si fiion, all such matters
as vrere then depending and undetermined, and
alio from revifiug the liws for the eflablifhraeut
of offices, and from reporting from time to time
such provifious and expense attending them, as
naiy appear to have tieoome nectfiary."
Mr. Gilei fecended the motion. The only
obje&ion which he had to this procedure wa9
that it was rather aukward firft to appoint a
Somm'ttec, and then to it froiVi great
part of its duties ; but having appointed tke
committee, he hoped this course would be tak
en, as gentlemen would recoiled! bow easy it
was to glide from one step of business to anoth
er, which was not at full intended, when so
much lay before them.
Mr. Craik wis not prepared to fay that- it
would be improper to ait upon atiy of the un
finilhed business of last session. He felt a< strong
a difpolition to make the present feffioii a ihort
one as other gentlemen ; but to enable them to
dojthc bufmefs properly, he thought the best way
would be to fuller this committee to take the
whole cf it before them, as it wds not in the
power of individual members to go over the
journal of last session, and l'av wh t was necei
farytobe gone into. Upon a view of the fub
jedt, there might be measures which it would
be elFential to have a<sled upon ; and, after the
report was made, the Houle would not be obli
ged to take up any things which it did not think
necefTary, and therefore no inconvenience could
result from it.
Mr. Swanwick said, whatever might be the
decision of the House upon this queltion, there
was one cafe which he thought in some degree
connedled wi,h the fubjcdl of the President's
Speech, which he wished to be considered. It
>*asthe cafe of North & Vefey of Charleston,
merchants, who prayed for the refunding of
certain duties. There were circumstances in
this"cafe, he believed, which were infringements
of exilting treaties.
Mr. Giles said, if they gave way to business
of this liort they might expedt to fit all the sum
mer, as every member had business entrufled to
him which he thought of the tirft importance.
He hoped they should attend only to the bulintfs
upon whtch they were called.
Mr.Swanwick hoped, if the present motion
were agreed to, an exception would be made in
f»vor of the cafe he had mentioned.
The Speaker said the exception would not be
in order.
Then, —Mr. Swanwick added, — He Ihould
vote against the motion. As he looked on this
bulinel's as of the fir ft importance, and ihat
whillt we were attending to our own rights, we
ought, in some degree, to refpefl those of other
nations.
Mr. Macon said, it was of little consequence
how the matter was determined, since, if the
motion <was carried, it would be in the power of
any two members to bring forward any lubjedt
they plea fed. He thought it would be best to
determine to do no private business at ail.
Mr. Hartley oblerved that if any private cafe
were taken up, none deserved attention) more
than tint of Mn. Carmichael.
Mr. Nicnolas knew that it was in the power of
any two membeis t® bring forward any private
business, and, if they could perluade the house to
doit, to have it decided: but be concluded, if this
vote pa fig , all such attempts would be in Tain.
The question wa> put and carried without a di
vision. *
Mr. Swanwick then wished the House to resolve
itlelf into a committee of the whole en the (late of
the Union, in order to take up the President's
speech.
Mr. Giles obferyed that this would be prema
ture, since the President had promised tlie»i cer
tain papers which were not received, and they had
yet to determine upon an a- fwer to his speech.
Mr. Williams said, perhaps the business would
be best expedited hy an adjournment, since it would
allow the gentlemen on the committee appointed
tor the purpose, time to pr pare an anlwer to the
Speech, and report it the earlier.
He made a motion ts that effedt, which was
carr '« d - [/?. D. A.~]
INT ERESTING COR RESPONDE NCE,
RELATIVE TO THE AFFAIRS Of
FR ANCE AND THE UNITED STATES.
The following correspondence, eomprifing the
mojl important of the documents contained in
the President's message to Congress of 19th
January laj!, if pcrufed -with candor and
attention, mujl fatisfy every independent A
merican of thefincere, aßive and unceasing
effurts of our government to maintain invio
Tate the rights of France, refilling from the
duties of neutrality, the law of nations and
exifling treaties, andtnofl completely vindicates
our nation from the unjufl reproaches and
, complaints of the French Directory and its
agents.
" A government which required only a know
" 'edge of the truth to juftify its measures, could
" not but be anxious to have this fully and frankly
" displayed." •
president's MESSAGE, JAN. 19, '97.
Letter from Mr. Fauchet to Mr. Randolph.
(Continued from tVednefday's Gazette.)
I hare gone over in detail the different
point* Hated in our correspondence ; let us
return to that part of your letter which con
siders the neutrality of the United States.
I conceived, fir,, that the refpedt and cir
cumfpedtion with which I had touched on
this qfleftion, would have spared me tha bit
ter rcfledtions which your letter appears to
contain on that matter. However great may
be my desire to enter into details for my own
defence, yet I (hall wave them, from the
fame motives which didated my firft letter.
But, \ fir, if these fentiraents had net been
with me so weighty, I could at lead take off
the veil which you seem willing, to leave over
the measures of the English, and refute the
application of the principle upon which you
ground the silence of the government of the
United States on thefubjedtof these measures.
I might make it doubtful whether jhe arbi
trary proclamations of the English govern
ment and generals were but the ordinary eh-
JruQions -with which neutral commerce is aj
faihd in all wars. I might in like manner
hesitate to admit that the federal government
had not fufficient grounds to demand their
revocation. But that would lead against my
inclination into an examination of the cases
in which a neutral power Ihould a&ually ac
knowledge the legality of an interruption of
its cotr.milrce, such as those of a place lloci
aded and contraband. I fbould also be obli
ged to examine whether the principles with
which the English government endeavor to '
support itfelf are consecrated by the law of 1
nations, or whether they are not rather efta- 1
| bltfhed 10 serve on the present occasion ; '
whether in changing the language the cabi
net of London has changed its measures j—
whether the fucceflive orders of the Bth June '
and 6th November 1793, and of the Bth '
January 1794, are not variations of the fame
fyilem, to which the depredations Hill exer- 1
cifed on your commerce, are the sequel; '
whether in a word it is true that the Unite') '
States are fuffcring with all neutral nations
under the fame insults, cr particularly fieri- 1
(iced to eiclufite vexation*. In enumerating t
t | these things, I only remind you of what has
1 ; already come to your knowledge, and trace
| fails against which I know yoil are not less
indignant than-France against whsm rhey are
, specially diredted. The history of your neu
trality would perhaps prove my assertion, that
t it has been a prey to the arbitrary condudt of
- Cjreat Britain, and would have served as a
> jullification as what I might ami (hould re
' present on the fubjedt.
r In fad) from the evidently precaiious Gtua
. tion of the neutrality of America, and from
: the vexations to which she is fubjedted, could
: 1 not (how that tins neutrality i 9 in a violent
• litua 1 ion to which the United States cannot
j consent ; from this violent fit nation would I
not have reason to infer the neefflity of an
energetic and vigorous reatfion and of a f<»-
Icmn reparation, which b) giving to America
I what her honor requires would have mini
frfled towards the French republic, the in
clination and intentions of your government ?
I would have remaiked th.it their reparations
had been announced at a certain period, but
that if public report were believed they ap
peared as far off as ever. From this contra
dilution between the promises and the perfoim
ance of them, this consequence fecms toarife,
that the United States had not yet ellablifhed
their neutrality upon as a rcfpedtable a foot
ing as France desired and had inftrufied me
to demand : I was going to conclude that
your government had not done in this refpedt
every thing in its power, arid feared lelt this
backwardness Ihould arise from a lukewarm
nefs towards its antient ally, who has not
ceased, on the contrary, to tcility to it how
much she desired to fee the bands which con
nedt the two- csuntries brought closer to
gether. This idea fuggefls to me a refleflion
that the frtendlhip profeffed by the United
States towards our republic of which they
haveon several occasions repeated assurances,
does not peimit them to alter their situation
towards our mod mortal enemies, to our djf
advantageand amidlt hortilities, theorigiivof
which u .doubtedly take date from the
pendence of America
These remarks which I have iong revolved
iD my mind, led me, Sir, accidentally to
speak to you of the treaty in my letter of the
2d of May ; but feeling all the circumfpec
tion which the silence observed on that adt
prescribed, I only presented doubts to you,
and did not even imagine that the manner in
which I wrote to you would have given rife
to acontroverfy between us. Besides, Sir,
j »t would luperfluous for me at present to com
mence such a fubjeft with you. I there
fore close by appealing, specially to the at
tention of the federal government upon
points which truly interest the i-'reneh re
public, to wit—the energetic and liberal exe
cution of her treaties with the United States,
and the support of their neutrality upon a re l
peSable footing towards and againfl all. J
conceive it my du'y to point out a thing as
infinitely defirsble ; which is that nothing
definitively be concluded as to the treaty sub
mitted for ratification of the Senate,until my
successor who is mtimently expedled fhaP
have communicated to you the inftruftions
which without doubt he has received upor
that important fubjedl. I conjure you Sir,
to submit this reflection immediately to the
President.
I have but one word more to fay, Sir, on
therlofe of your letter, in whiJi you recti:
to contrails between the present and the past
I cannot believe that the Piefident had me
in view when you inlinuate on his part thai
endeavours are (till making to injure the bar
mony exifling between the two nations. 1
do not think that any one has ever givefi
greater evidence than myfelf of a sincere dc
I fire of cultivating it. Still less can 1 admit
notwithllanding some of your expressions.
that your objedt was toinfpire me with fea>
as to the the manner in which I have conduc
ted. You know well, Sir, that a public
man who from any personal cpnfideration
wlia'foever (hould compound with his duty
would be unworthy the confidence of his
country.
Accept, Sir, rfly esteem,
JH. FAUCHET.
Mr. Randolph, Secretary of State, to Mr.
Fauchet,* Mini Her Plenipotentiary of the
French Republic.
Department of State, June 1 y.b, 1795.
Sir,
I HAVE not been able to aeknowledge
sooner your letter of the Bth, inflant, which.
I had the honour of receivingon the fame
day.
If the plan, pursued in mine of the 29th
ultimo, be more extensive, than the one pro
posed in yours of the 2d, you will afcribt
thr enlargement of it to my solicitude to
remove every diflatisfadtion, felt by the
miniller of our ally. A part, however, of
that plan being to colled) with fidelity thr
fadts, applicable ta your various charges, an J
to comment upon them with candor, I dial:
not relinquilh it, in now replying to the old
or new matter of your last letter. But I
mufl be pardoned, if 2 pass over without
much flrefs, any general declarations, which -
are not fufceptiblt of a precise argument.
For how fliall t defend our government
againlt undetailed ipfinuatious, like these :
" That pofitivc engagements, which give
" France a right to certain privileges, have
" beeo neglected or executed with indiff;r
---" ence : that other rights, common to all,
" have become doubtful, for you by too
" much fubmiflion to the adla of other
" powers : that you could cite a great
" number of examples : that it will be easy,
" more at leisure to have a colledtion made
"of them in tbe different consulates: that
" almost all the prizes have been fubjedted
" to artifices : and that one of the most dif
" agreeable parts of your functions has been
" to reply to the just complaints of your in
" jured fellow citizens," &c.
Being unable to add any other vindica
tion in regard to the Favourite ; and not
being informed of the veflel going to Cua
dalonpe, and said to have been arrested at
* It jppceri that »fier this letter h«d been drafted,
and while it wastranferibipg, Mr Arict was received
as Ihe miniller plenipotmtiaiy of the I*'i encb republic,
to whom in cenlcquencc it was (cot,
is Norfolk, on suspicion of infringing our lieu,
re t-rality 5 nor yet, how it supports the com
fa plaint, relative to the Favourite, I leave the
e fubjeft here. But Ift the veflel destined to
1- Gu daloupe, be in any predicament whaifo
it ever, the countermanding of the orders given
>f by the Governor of Virginia to the militia
a officert of Norfolk, to refufe comfort to
Britilh veflels, using our waters as a ftatioa;
cannot Ue tortured into any connexion with
i- her. FOl the aft of the President nfver au.
n thoriied the Stale Executives to issue f«ch
■1 an order :No other Executive misunderstood
it it : The Executive of Virginia revoked it i
it week before the'rcvoeatioii was heard ofby
I the Federal Executive, and you may deter
n mine from my coirefpondence with Mr.
1. Haifimond, on this fubjeft, what the Prefi
a dent finally contemplated.
Upon this point a few word* will be f < ffi
- cietjt.. Of the re-aftron towards Gtea' Bri
? tair) and of the reparation towar soii-feJTes,
s the United States arc the only legitimate
t. judges. They will adapt the one and the
. <iiher to their estimate of their own power,
and intoreft. Being the defenders of their
own honour and welfare, they will n„t be
t lulpefted of voluntarily abandoning cither *
] nid if they do uoJ mount to the pitch, which
- the French republic would prefer, their good
; will and intentions towards it ought nor to
t be doubted. What you call, fir, luke warmth
t to our ancient ally, is an upright neutrality,
s The new arrangements against which yo«
• have exprefTed ynurfclf, are a part of the
great fubjeft, which is now at the disposal
r of the Senate.
There are some miscellaneous matters,
which remain to be touched briefly.
1 We agree to submit the conltruftion of
'7 th article of this treaty ro explanations
between the two governments. But in the
mean trme I mull own, ihat I do npt feel
the importance of Mr. Hammond's acknow
ler'gement to your reaforiing He had ron
tended, th&t under our treaty with France,
we could not expel the prizes made by the'
. 1 "uifers. 1 had infifte.l upon our
'ight to drive them off, and by way of ar
gument reminded him of a conltr lift ion
which we had adopted refpefti„g the efuiferj
themfelvcs, and wh'kh by his literal expofi.
non wsuld be defea'ed. You do not fcrm
to be aware of thr dilemma, to which this
m )de of reafonlog. exp.ifes you If Mr.
Hammond be correct, ihen are your com!
plaints again# the admiflion of p ,-j zeß .
our anxiety to prevent it, wholly unfounded :
and our harbours may swarm with tjt'em. If
he be incoreft the conc.ffioa amounls to
nothing. Between us It surely i, avai |
whether a British minister reasons well or ill •
though I do not »eo«lleit. that he has repeat'
C<l this branch of his pofjiion, fiircc he has
been apprised of its tc ,ncy. Wheresoever
truth lies, it is our dury ir, follow ; and I
ell our conft-uftion upon this frs. k princi
ple : That notwithlKnding \\^J e ttir of the
treaty j its fpi it, ir s context, and the rule 6
.if interpretation will uphold the regulations
t our government.
• In-a procedure; '|ke this, it will not be
e.iiy to find a leaning «r fubfervi'ccy to G.
Biitain. ft »s a leaning and ftfbf. rvienty to
the charafter of our nation. Your letter
itrorgly demohftrates the propriety of my
cmark, that a neutral nation, while it* de
fends itfelft against charges from one of the
.varring powers, may fecra to palliate the mis.
lo.ngs of another. I3ur we fmely ought to
nave been exempt from this reflection ; as
you are particularly desired not to infer f,om
my juflificatioo of the executive that the-va
-1 dity of the proclamation of blockade is af
feuted to : as you admit " Thar we are in.
" dignant at the injuries which Great Bri
'• tain has done us ana as we have employ
ed no argument which is not derived from
national law.* Until you fliall permit your!
ielf to be more fpecilL- in your accusations,
we cannot surrender the confeioufnefs of our
political purity.
It is with real regret, that I read in your
last .ester an idea, that we have not done
justice to your proclamation, to your difplea
iure at the crew of the Concorde, and to
your general conduft towards our govern-
How much more is. that regret in
. jreafed, when any of my exprctOous can be
kwnught into an attempt to inspire. you with
lear, or to deter you by personal confidera
•lons from the discharge of \oor duty. A
efpeft to ourselves, would forbid such an at
empt ; a refpeft for you, wobld foibid it ;
having no poffi' le objeft, dillinft from the
interest of the Ut ited States, we are incapa*
lie of it ; being confident in our power to
ullrate ony incroachmenls, we can never in
j to plant in your bread so unworthy a
notive. As you again disclaim an approba
'io« Mr. Genet's exccfles; so am 1 not
scrupulous to confefs that 1 fljould not have
■ ecurred to them, had I not inferred from
/our letter on inclination to bring them up
•vilh some fliare of countenance to them.—
But this being as you inform . me, the mo
ment of our official feparstion, 1 am compel,
led by candor tp intimate to you, what, under
other tireumftanccs, would have beer, ftatrd
o you and minutely. The
citizen*- of the Unitpd States have a right,
.and will exereife the right, freely to investi
gate the meafurei of government. A for.
eign minister has a right to remonlliate with
the Executive to whom he is accredited, up.
on any of those meafiues afFefting hit roun
try. But it will ever be denied'as a right
of a foreign minister, that he should endea
vour, by an addreft to the people, oral or
written, to foreftall a depending tteafure, ur
to dtfeat one, which has been decided. " This
remark i 3 made now; becatrfe it cannot be
erroneously wrested into a defence or out
work of the treaty with Great Britain
and bccawfe tt is an afTertion of the fove
reignt/ot the United States, confident with
what is past, and we tiuft not likely to be
contradifted hereafter.
I cannot conclude thig letter without of
fering to you my Cticere wishes for your hep
pinefs, a personal afTurance of the great
est refpeft and efierm, with which I have the
honour to be, fir, your mod obedfent servant,
EDM. RANDOLPH.PHILADELPHIA,
FRIDAY EfEHItfG, MAY 19, 1797.
PRICES OF STOCKS.
PHILADCLTMA, MAX 18.
6 per Cent. 16/10
Deferred 6 per Cent. 16/"6 i l.t/
jJ pet Cent.
4; per Cent.
i per Csr.t. toft a 4
BANK SHAKES.
Bank United States, 19 i 20 per cent, advance.
I'ennfylvania, 13 j24
North America, 45
INSURANCE COMPANY SHARES.
I. C. of N. A 13 dolls. 15 cents per lhare
Pennsylvania, at par.
The fallowing are the pafiVogcrs in th» Williim
Pcnn, from London.—MelTrs. George *'orrifon,
Michael SanderfoH. Richard Ford, Michael Cailinun,
William Cripp, I hoinas Maftert, it England j John
Lylc, William Pearfol, Daniel M-Corie, William
-Camming, William Morris, Sylvanus B >urne, con
sul of the United Slates at Amtlcrdam, and 18 ftcer
age pairrngeis.
r The fivp William Pennon her passage was chaced
3 homrs av the Indefatigable, Sir Edward Pellew,
before he could come up with her.
Died, at Bollon, Mailer Asa Lapham,
son of Mrs. Dorcas Lapham, iEt. 4. He
was bitten by a dog the 7th of February
last, not then thought to be mad—the wound
to appearance soon lmalcd. But the fymp
tomsof the hydrophobia commenced on Sa
turday last, and increased to a hortid degree
to the time of his death.
Died, in London, Mis. Pope, formerly
Mlfs Younge—a celebrated artrefs.
NEW-YOKK, May 16.
The demand on the Hanfe T»wns to (but
British veflels from t eir ports, confirms what
wefuggefted some weeks ag«, that the French
find it neceflary to cut off all diretfl and eify
communicatien between Great Britain and the '
Emperor, which is now by the way of the Elbe. ;
At this particular junilure, that step is fuppol- !
ed to be extremely neceflary towards embarraf- •
ing the operations of the limperor, in the ap- j
proaehing campaign. Whether the French ;
will really fend f.n army to effefl their objeils, is s
not certain ; butfarfrom improbable.
The conduit of Fra ice towards Denmark <
and the Hanfe Towns, defeats all the reasonings
of our Jacobins, who afcribt her treatment of
us to the treaty with Great Brita n. Hamburgh
has made no late treaty with Great Britain—
France has made no complaints on that fuhjeift.
Yet France treats Hamburgh as ill as the Unit
ed States. Such pretences as these are all non- !
fcnfe—mere hypocrisy to cover the plan of def- :
troving a rival and eltablilhing a controling in
fluence over the whole world—principles that
ought to be, and will be refilled by all the nor
thern powers of Europe, and by the United
States.
" The Gazetteer of America," a new and
interesting u ork, by Rev. Dr. Morse, is in the
prefsand will be publifbed the beginning of June. \
We have seen and examined a large portion of j
.this work in mmufcript, and can aflure the .
public that it will be a most valuable volume. ]
Indeed it will be the firft publication of the kind
that deserves the name of an American Gaxet- j
teer. The volume will contain 600 pages, and |
contain a complete description, not only of the j
towns, cities, &c. in the United States, but in j
South America and the Weft Indies.
The following are the conditions of publica- |
tion. ...
1. The work will contain, as neai ,y as can be
estimated, about 600 pages large oftavo, fine
print, on a new and »ea f type.
2. The work will be printed on three differ
ent forts of paper, to accommodate the tastes
of fubfenbers. Copies printed 011 paper of the
firft quality, will be delivered to fubferibers, ele
gantly bound in calf, at three dollars eaeh. Co
pii s of the iucond quality, will he neatly bound
in calf plain, and delivered to fubfciibers at two
dollars and Jifty cents. Copies of third qua
lity, neatly hound in sheep, at twdmollars It
will be optional with the fubferibers. when the
work (hall be completed, to take their books of
the firft, feccnd or third quality, at the above
prices. The prices will be enhanced to non-Jub-
J'c fibers.
3. The Work will be illustrated with fix
MAPS, handsomely engraved, viz. Of the
Northern States*—of the Southern States —of
North America —of South America —of the
Wejl Ind.es—and of the ne<ui difco-verti I/lands
in the Pacific Ocean, of which a particular de
scription is given in the work.
4. Those who will fubferibe, or procure fub
feribers, for ten copies, and pay for the fame,
fhill be entitled to one, gratis.
A new and valuable work has lately been pub
lifted in Philadelphia.—This is a comparative
view of the eonftitutiqns of the fever al slates ;
exhibiting in columns, the principal features of
each, and the points in which they agree and
difagree— : by Wm. Smith of South Carolina,
member of Congress. This view of the confti
tutioas is an excellent for constant use.
It is very eoncife, and the points of nnion and
contrast in the constitutions are placed before
the reader in a clear and intelligible view.
The work has another excellence, not com
mon in American publications —whieh is the
finenels of the paper and the elegance of the
printing.
Edwin/ind Angelina, by Dr. Elihu H. Smith
of this city, is aim a p'rodudtion of m ich mer
it —It was printed by Meflrs. Swords of this ci
ty, on a fine wove paper, and affords another
specimen of excellent typography, that does
honor to this country. f Minerva }
C A N A L.S.
We learn with much fatisfaflion, that bet
ween 3 and 400 hinds are already employed
in profecutinjr the Wellern Canals—and that
considerable progress has already been made
in the present season.
Mr. Wefton, the Engineer, is now on his
way toSkeenfboro' toinfpeiS and superintend
for a fhoit time, the works of the Northern
Canal, which have commenced in that quat
tir, with a spirit that promises important im
provements in a northern inland lock naviga
tion. 4
A packet boat of 25 tons, is cftablifhed
on Lake Ontatio, to ply during the summer
season, between Ofwego and Niagara.
HARTFORD, May IJ-
ExtraS ef a letter from a Member of Congress
in a neighbouringJiate, to his friendin hart
ford, dated 18 th April l,ijl.
■ •• The call for the meeting of CongreHi on
ihe 15th of next month, is not more unex
pefted and inconvenient to roe, than it ii
unplcafaot and alarming. What will be the
issue of the convulsed Hate of Europe, the
ftiStle tlie dirk iufidioui p ilicy of
the French' government, and the cursed ma
cUinatians of the evil, ambitious, and disor
ganizing fart inn among 113, on our happy f j
eover and country, God o ly knows. g
I feci fonwtimes full of refentmrnt, hut it is tl
mod against the incendiaries and faftious d
who are lurking about among us ; men who ci
breath an air too pure for their vilecontami
nating principles, and who live under a go- J
vernmcnt too inild for habits f, base, vicious
and corrupt. An interruption and eventu- C(
ally an annihilation ol our recent happiness fr
and prosperity is an event grea'ly to be de- ri
precated, should it even be efft&ed by the
hand of an enemy.— But when this evil is
accelerated, and in part accomplished by citi
zens of eur own country—uy members of
our own family—will it be too much to ex
claim, " Is there not some cbjfen cuife— aI
some hidden thunder, in the (tores of heaven, hi
red with uncommon wrath 'o blast the man ki
who oweshis gieatnefs to'' and who dares J c
attempt " his country's ruin." War is
indeed a calamity at all times—and by all
nations sedulously to be avoided—lt is em- tc
phatically so with refpeft to us—every con- r j
(ideration invites us on the one hand to seek fa
peace and pursue it, while on the other it hi
proclaimsagainft war. It will require all the 111
wifdqm, fiimnefa and moderation of the new
Congrefsj to (leer our political bark with j
fafety through the thieatning ftotm. May ai
the good spirit of our country animate all
their councils, and djeft all their deliberation
to mejfureb which will ifTue in the public
good."
By this day's Mail. "
ir
NEW YORK, May tB. F
Sir John Wentworth, Lieut Governor. r(
of Nova Scotia, its dependencies, Sic. has "
issued a Proclamation dated the 23d of March ti
authorifinj; the importation of the following M
articles into that province, viz. scantling, n
plank, staves, heading boards, or squared It
timber of any fort, bread, biscuit, flour, w
pease, beans, wheat, rice, barley or gram
of any fort, by British fubje&s and in British j.J
built (hips, owned by his majesty's fuhjeiSs, 1 ,
and navigated according to law, from the ; f,
31ft March to the 31ft July, of which all , a
persons whatever are'hereby required to take ; o
notice.
WILMINGTON, May 18. | a
On Monday last pasTed Newcastle, his j
Britannic msjelly's ship Lion, zz gu> s, r
captain Morgan, after convoying 27 Ameri a
! can veffVls from Hifpaniola, 15 days paflage. ; tl
As (he pasTed Newcastle (he was saluted by a S
small battery, which wa6 politely returned 1
by the Lion with ij e»ns.
PITTSBURGH, May 13. 'j
Or» F'iday the yth instant, a violent tor- n
nado came down the Monongahela river with tl
irrefiftable fury, above the mouth of Dunlap's 'J
creek. It laid f>are the bottom of the river,
and mixed the flood with the clouds. At that
| place it took its direftion to the right bank,
! and swept Brownsville. Several houses were , '
: blown down, and the roofs from others car- J a
1 ried off to a great distance. Some individuals t
! were wounded. The blast lasted about four 1
j minutes. Planks lying on the ground wete
1 lifted, and carried like the leaves of trees in j £
j the air. Some cattle were killed. It is not '
yet known to what distance the hurricane 1
continued, or what further damage was *
done.
I II | , (
Foreign Intelligence, t
l
LONDON, March 25.
The fallowing is a copy of the petition agreed t
to by the common hall on. Thui fday : 1
1 "To the King's Excellent MajeJ}y, 1
" The huir ble address and petition of the lord <
mayor, aldermen, and livery of London, in <
common hall aflembled, on Thursday thei3d !
of March, 1797.
" May it p'eafe your majesty,
" We, your majesty's most taithfnl and loyal
fubjefls, the lord mayor, aldermen, and livery
cf the city of London, in common hall aflemb
led, approach the throne with deep affliction, '
I and with the most awful appiehenfions trom 1
your majesty's mimfters per6fting in measures
which an accumulation of unprecedented cala- ,
mities has manifeftly proved unwise and def
tru&ive, immediately tending to pervert, and
j even to destroy, the acknowledged principles of
: our juflly boafled eonflitution.
| "We lament that, by the evil instigation of
1 your majesty's advisers, these nations have been
plunged into a war unparaleled in misery and
deftrudlion, which has nearly ruined our com
me ce, irnpoverithed our manufacturers, depop
ulated our country, sapped the public credit,
?nd widely extended the most flagitious corrup
tion.
I "We most deeply deplore that your majef
| ty'S ministers, abandoning the principles they
I once profeffed, have endeavored to prevent the
t remonstrances of yonr people, attacking the
I' very vitals of our constitution, and depriving
your fubjeits of liberties which their antcftors
with so much energy " claimed, demanded, and
infilled on as their undoubted right and inheri
tance," and which it is our duty to tranfmlt to
our posterity pure and inviolate, and for the de •
fence and prefervatiort of which, your majesty's
royal house was chosen, and placed upon the
throne of tnefe realm.*.
" We therefore moll humbly betiech yaur
majesty to dismiss forever from your majesty's
' presence ar.d councils, those adviters, both pub
lic and secret, of the measures we lament, not
r doubting that, by a change of councils, such
measures may be adopted as will speedily pro
. cure the iweftimable blessings cf peace, and pro
j duce such a system of economy as (bill rellore
the public credit and the happiness of your peo
-1 pie.—But should your majesty any longer con
■ fide in such advisers, we are f rmly convinced
- ; that they will completely undermine that bafts
. j ef national prosperity and happiness, the recip
rocal confidence of a sovereign and a free peo
j pie, and inevitably destroy the boasted privileg
es, the internal peace, and the numerous bleff
r ings, that Britons have heretofore enjoyed."
The SheiifFs of London attended yeltcrday at
St. James's, and waited for above two hours to
' j have an interview with the king, to know when
- the address and petition for turningout his min
isters, as carried in the common hall, should be
, brought up ; when the duke of Portland deliv
ered a verbal meiTage that his majesty had al
ways received addrefles from the sity of Lon
-8 don in their corporate body, and not by repre
c fentitivcs ; upon which the gentlemen retired
e without gojig into the prel'ecce chamber !! I
« I
VIENNA, March 8. 1
On the 6th inft. field marlhal lieutenant Mack 1
set out from this city for tbearmy on theßhia'?, j
where he will take the direction in the name of
the archdjike Charles. Whether the duke of
Saxe-Tefchcn will have the chief command of
tht army, will not be determined till the arch
duke Joseph , th« palatine of Hungary, (hall re
cover from his iilncfc.
The nioft vigorous preparations are making
for the recruiting the Italian army, which WiU
be augmented to 120,000 men.
The prince of Waldeek, who is to take the
command of the Portuguese troops, receives
from Portugal the yearly salary of so.ooo flo
rinsi, with the prumifeof 4 coiUCderable pertfion.
The French have again attempted to pass the
Pia>e, u?ar Lovadino, but have b#e» re pulled
bv the Auflriaas, \vith the lofa of iaoo men. ,
*
BOLOGNA, Feb. 18.
It is aiTerted here that the Pope, by a secret
article in his peace with the Fren:h, has ceded '
hi, rights ol fuvereignty to Benevento, in the '
kingdom of Naples, in favor of his Sicilian ma- <
je.'iy.
It has been hitherto supposed, that the cess
ions of territory made by the Pope would be in
favor of the Cifpadan republic ; but, contrary
to expe<HaMon, we find that he has yielded his
rights to Bologna, Ferrara, and Romagua, in'
favor of the French republic : we therefore now
belong to France ; and the independence of our
new republic is as yet doubtful.
The territory which the Pope, in his late
treaty, has c.ced to she French, viz. Bologna,
Ferrarr, Romagna, and for the present Ancona,
amount to more than a fourth part of his itates.
FRONTIERS OP ITALY, March t.
Two powerful armies are now colleifling on
the frontiers of Italy. Both the French and
Auftrians have brought the choicest of their
troops from the armies on the Rhine to Italy.
The Auftri ins have already or< accord
ing to others, 70,000 fighting men 011 the river
Piava, and about ao,ooo in the Tyrol, without
reckoning the riflemen, or the reinforcements
which areon their way from the Austrian states
to Friuli, and from the Empire to Tyrol. To
this formidable army, report, though a repirt
which requires confirmation, adds 70,000 Ve
netian troops, as it is said that Venice has at
length determined to take an ailivepart in the
war, and join the Auftrians.
The French have likewise greatly augmented
their force on the frontiers of Italy. The troops
I from the armies the of Rhine and the Meufeare
arrived : a body of 18000 men is ported in re
; serve fromCharnberi, 111 Savoy, to the Mifanefe j
and two divisions are on their way to the place
of adlion.
The archdske Charles has again returned to the
army in Italy, and Gen. Buonaparte has joined
; the French main army from Bologna.
I A ftrious aflion again took place in the Ty- .
j rol, on the 24th of February. The French
attacked the AuftriaHs near Teutfchmetz, in
three different points, in the hope of carrying
Salurn,and entrenching themselves there, before
the Austrian troops from the Rhine (hould ar
rive. They were, however, repulsed with cou
fiderable loss. The Auftrians purlued them to
Monte Corona, drove them from the entrench
ments they had thrown up there, and made
themselves masters of that important post.
Trent is dill in the pofTeffion of the French.
MENTZ, March 11.
Generals Kray and Meyer will likewifego to
the army in Italy.
The French armies of the Sambreand Meufe
I and the Rhine and Moselle, begin to be in mo
tion. Frenrh troops are defiling on all fides to
Kayferflautern,Spires, Bingen, Kxeutznach, &c
The left wing of the army of the Rhine has
j taken post in the vicinity of Kirckheim Polan
; den, communicating with the army of the Sam
, bre and Meufe. This left wing, which iscom
; manded by Gen. St. Cyr, has been reinforced
with two divitions.
i The centre is polled near Landau, Germer
(heim, &c. and commanded hy general Duhcm-
The right wing, of which general Dufour has
the command, extcnus from Lautefburgh to
Huninguen.
General Defaix commands the whe'e army of
the .thine and Moselle, but under Genera! Mo
reau, who diredls in chief all the operations
both of this army and of that of the Sainbre
and Meufe) which is under the command of gen
eral Hocht. On the 7th, ten French generals
held a military conference at Alzev.
LONDON, March 24.
Yellerday a Court of Propi ietors was held
at the Bank ; and 3 ( 2 per cent, was de
clared the half yearly dividend. The gov
ernor informed the court> they bad not failed
to make representations to minifteig of the
injurious operation 0:1 rheir concerns, the in
cessant advances necessarily had ; every effoft
to impress this truth had beep used. He
was happy, however, to (late to the General
Court, that a loan was now iit a train of ne
gociation, and that miniltfcrs had expressly
declared their intention that seven million of
their advances should be paid out of this
loan. Another part, that which had been
made on the security of the land and malt,
was.daily coming in.
\
HOUSE OF COMMONS.
March 18.
The house in a committee, ordered a biii
to be brought in to renew parts of the corn
afl, allowing the importation of wheat and
| prohibiting its exports.
The house in a,committee on the Bank
, Indemnification bill, passed the clause for ex
. cepting the prohibition of issuing cadi for
s supply of the army and navy. Mr. Pitt then
: moved that the blank in the limitation clause
be Idled with the date of the 24th of June.
Mr. Fox moved an amendment, that the ill
of May be inserted inftcad of the 24th of
t June. On this the house divided ; Ayes 88,
1 Noes 2 18.
Mr. Lublock, the banker, thought no in
• convenience was likely to result to the bank,
e let the operation of the bill ccafe when it
might.- Abundance of ca(b, he. was convin
.l ced, would flow into it whenever the
s bufineft of it should be restored to its
- former principle. He himfelf went to the
- bank no linger ago than yesterday, and of
fered 10,000 guineisto Mr. Abraham New
land, on condition that the fame iuni should
( be returned to him whenever he might call
„ for it ; but his offer was rejcdled. He knew
n persons who would advance 50,000 guineas
- upon th<; fame plan ; three millions would
c enable the bank, to go on | and he had no
doubt that, upon similar conditions, that sum
would be produced in 24. hours, " and a
damned deal more too." [A loud laugh.J
j" PARI?, March 18.
The Italian Gazettes give ui the artules
die Treaty of Peace concluded between
the P.jpe and the French Republic, of which
the following is an authentic copy :
..Art". I. There shall be peace, friendthip,
and g»od undsrflanding between the French
Republic and Pope Pins the sixth.
It. The P.jpe revokes all adhesion, jiffifl
snce and conceffi in, open or secret, given by
him to the' Coali ion aimed again ft the Re
public of France ; and to every treaty nf al
liance offenfive and defenfive, with whatever
power it may be. He engages himfelf not
to furnifh either for.the present or any future
Wilr, to sny power armeJ sgainfl the Fiencli
Republic, any succours in men, Ibips, arms,
warlike (lores, provifionsor money, linger any
title or denomination whatever.
111. His holiness shall difbsnd, withiri five
days after the ratification of the present trea
ty, the troops of the new formation, retaining
only the regiment exifling before the treaty
of armistice finned at Bologna.
IV. The (hips of war or cerfairs of the
powers aimed against the French Republic,
(hall not enter, on at lealt (hall not make any
llay during the present war, in the ports or
roads of the EcclcGallical States. (
V. The French Republic shall continue '
to enjoy, as before the war, all the rights and (
prerogatives which France had at Rome, and j
shall be treated in evety refpeft as the most
refpe£lable powers, and particularly so as to
what- relates to it's Ambassador or Minifler,
its Consuls or Viee-Confnls.
VI. The Pope (hall renounce absolutely j ]
and entirely, all the rights which lie may 1
pretend to have in the cities and territories of 1
Avignon, the Comtat Venaiffiu, and its de
pendencies; and (hall transfer, g've up, and
abandon the laid rights to the French Re
public. i
VII. The Pope in like manner renounces
forever, and gives up and tiansfers to the '
French Republic, all his right to the terTito- (
ries known by the title cf the Legation of
Bologna, Ferrara, ants Romagna ; and no at- s
tack (hall be made on the Catholic Religion'
is those Legations.
VIII. The citadel and villages forming
the territory of the city of Ancona, shall re
main in the hands of the Republic till a
peace with the Continent (ball be concludsd.
IX. The Pope engages for himfelf
his (ucceffors, not to transfer to any one the
'titles of figniories attached to the territory
hereby ceded to the French Republic.
X. His Holiness engages to pay and de
liver at Foligno, to the treasurer of the
French army, before the sth March. 1797,
the sum of 15,000,000 of French Livres
Tournois, of which 10,000, q00 shall be in
specie.and 5,000,000 in diamonds, and other
valuable effe&s ; besides the sum of 1,600,00e
remaining due aecording to the 9th article
of the Armistice signed at Bologna on the
sth Meflider, in the year of the Repub
lic, and ratified by his Holiness on the 17th
of June.
XI. In order to fettle finally what (hall
remain to be paid, in order to the complete
execution of the armistice signed at Bologna,
his Holiness (hall provide the army with 800
cavalry horses accoutred, and 800 draught
horses, bulls and buffaloes, and other, objeds
produced from the territory of the Charch.
XII. Besides the sum mentioned in the
preceding articles, the Pape (hall pay to the
French Republic, in specie, diamonds, and
other valuables, the sum of 15,000,000 of
French livres tournois, of which 10,000,0c0
livres (hall be paid in thecourfe of March,
aod five in the couife of Apiil next.
XIII. The Bth article of the Treaty of
Armillice signed at Bologna, concerning the
manuscripts and objedfs of art, shall be car
ried into complete execution ;>s speedily as
poflible.
XIV. The French army (hall eracua'e
Umbria, Perugia, and Camerino, as foot) as
the 10th article of the present treaty (hall
be executed and accnrppliihed.
XV. The French army dial] evacuate the
Province of Macarata, excepting Acona ar.d
Fano, and-their teriitories, as soon as the
five millions of the sum mentioned in
12th article of the present treaty shall have
been paid and delivered.
XVI. The French (hall evacuate the ter
ritory of the ci'.y of Fano, and the Duchy
of Urbino, as soon as the second five milli
ons of the sum mentioned in the 12 article
of the present treaty (hall have been delivered
and the 3d, loth, llthand 13th, (hall hfve
been executed. The la ft five millions, mak
ing the whole of the sum stipulated to be
paid by the I 2th article, (hall be paid at far
theft in the course of April next.
XVII. The French Republic cede to the
Pope all its right to the different religious
foundations in the city of Rome, and at Lo
retto ; and the Pope cedes entirely to the
French Republic all the allodia] property be
longing to the Holy See,in the three provin
ces of Bologna, Ferrara, and Rentagna, and
particularly the eflate of MefoU and its de
pendencies ; the Pope, reserving to himfel
however, in cafe they (ball be fold, a third of
the sums arising from such sale, which (hall
be remitted as part of his contribution.
XVIII. His Holiness (hall disavow, by
his minister at Paris, the affafiination of the
Secretary of Legation, BalTevillc ; and, in
the course of the year, the sum of three
hundred thousand livres, (ball be paid to, and
divided ajnongft those who have fuffetd by
, this event. *
XIX.
persons in confinement on acccnnt of their
political opinions. 1
; XX. The Commander in Chief (hall per
• rait all the .prifoncrs of wa> from the troops
of bis Holinrf:, to ''re/yrn h'-me as soon as
he (ball havofeicircd }W- ratifications of this
! treaty. v " ... •><»;
XXI. a>ce>n<rorh?i;)l treaty (hi-ll be
concluded
1 'he Pope, the commerce of the Republic
shall be rc-eftabli(bed and treated by the
States of his Holiness cu the fame footing
as the nnt;on troll favoured in l's coicmer'ce'
XXII. Conformably to ibe 6th article of
the treaty concluded at the Hague in April,
. in the 3d year, the peace concluded by the
i prefer.'! trecty between t!-e French Republic
and li!» Holiness is <!ccla:ed to extend to
the Nar;:vi»n Republic.
XXIII. Tlxspoft of Fiarwe(hill be re e
ftabhflfed at Roane, in the fame as it exift
e<t " before. %
. XXIV. The School of Arts, inftitnted
at Rome for' ail the french, (hall be re e
ftatlifhrd, and (hall continue to be conduc
ed as before the war. The Palace belong-,
injr to the Republic, wiere the. school is
held, fh.all be restored without walle.
XXV. All the Articles, Claufei and Con
dilions, of the present treaty fllall be, with
out exception, obligatory forever, as well on
his Holiness as on his fuccefTors.
XXVI. The present treaty (hall be ratifi
ed with the fhortcft poflible delay.
Made and signed at the Headquarter*
of Toletitino, by the said Plenipo
tentiaries, 19th February 1797-
(Signed) BUONAPARTE,
CAC.AULT.
GAZET7E MARINE LIST.''
Poxt of Philadelphia.
arrived.
Ship Diana, Pearfol, Alexandria, 6
Star, Woodman, London, 45
Schooner President, Lillibridge, L'Aa
cevrau,
Th£ Star left the Downs April 4.
•■The Sloop President, on her paflafre home
was taken by a British Letter of Marqur,
who put fix men and a" prize master on board.
The Capt. and two m»n beinp left on board
rose on them and retook the vefTel.
A brig- below is said to fee from Bordeaux.
There is an arrival at New York in 30
days from England.
The Ihio Ceres, Cant. neij»min Wickes, jun. of
this city, is arrived at Norfolk from London.
The Harriet, Storv, from Virginia, trnved at Fal
mouth March 15th, bound to Rotterdam.
Tlie Merparet Bn}>ee, arrived at Daitmouth from
Charlrfton. with damage
The Marv, Titcomb, from Hull sot Philadelphia,
afnoreon the Aberdeen.—crpw fjvpd
The brig Mentor, Forrrfter, of. Philadelphia, is
fafe arrived at Belfaftfmm North Carolina.
• From Lloyd's Lift, March 31.
AltltlFßD'
America, Ewing, Philadelphia, at Dover.
John & Elizabeth, do. do.
Sufannab, Butler, do. Gravefend.
Chatles, Trafton, do. Cork.
New-York, may 16.
ARRIVE D. OATS.
Schr. Chryfeis, Campbell, Halifax 14
Vnlpus, Prjtt, Jacquemel 16
Dove, Greenotlghlv, Port de Paix 16
Sloop Viftory, Lee, Boston 15
Louisa, Daniel, St. Bartholomews 14
CLEARED.
Ship Portland, Hufley, Amsterdam
Racket, Rapes, Cadiz
President, Adamfon, Bristol
Brig Lucy, Gore, Jamaica
Mary, Snell, St. Thoma»
Sehr. President, Hughes, Gonaives
Slosp Nancy, Biers, Bofloti
Halifax, ylpril 27.
Saturday failed on a cruize his Majcfty'a
fliip Thifbe, Capt. Hardy.
Lailson's Circus,
South Fifth-Street
The Performances at the NEW CIRCUS
On Saturday Evening, May zoth,
Will begin by a Gtarid Parade of Equeflri.iti
Performers of both sexes.
After which, will be presented (forthefirft
time) a beautiful French Comic Opera, called,
Les Deux Petits Savoyards,
OR,
THE LITTLE CHIMNEY SWEEP.
CC?" Particulars in the Bills of the Day.
Mujical lnjirument Manufactory,
No. 167, Arch Street.
HARPER, harpsichord, grand, portable grand,
board, pier table and lquarc pia? o lore ma
lt* r frono London, returns thank his friend*
aijid the public, for their liberal . A juragement,
and hopes tkat by hisaftirfuity and at'enrk n to ev
ery branch of his bufmefs, toirerit a continuance
of tKeir favors. Piano fortes made on tht ncweft
and most approved plan?, with prdah, patent,
swell, and French harp flop, which heflatteis
hircfelf will ue found on trial by unprejudiced
judges, to be equal if not superior to any import
ed, and twenty percent cheaper. Any inltru
m«nt purchased of him, if not approved of in
twelve months, he will exchange.
N. B. All kinds of Musical instruments made,
turned, and repaired with the greatefl accuracy,
dispatch, and on the moll reasonable, terms, for
ready money only.
Second h.tntl Piano Forte# taken in exchange.
May ae. wi & fsm
At O'Ellers's Hotel.
Readings and Recitatigns,
iloret, Critical, anil Entertaining ;
FOR ONE WEEK 0 Nl. T.
On Monday evening, May j»d, at eight o'clock,
WILL BE DIUVERtD.
Patt 1.
Effayon Taste and Oratory
Patt 11.
Othello's address to the Senate Shakcfpeare
Brutus's fpeeth on the death of Csefar c!o.
Anthony's Funeral Oration do.
Part 111.
Satan's to the Sun Miltrn
Ode on St. Cecelia's Day Pope
Ode on the Pafiions Collins
Tickets (half a dollar each) tobe had of Mr.
Poulfon, at the Library, and at the Bar of
O'l-.llcr's Hotel.
'I he nights of the Headings will be cn Mon
day, Wednesday and Friday. ,
Gold and Silver Watches,
OF an excellent quality, and neat JaHiicnablx
Gold Chains, Seils and Keys, Eijht Day
Clocks and Time Pieces, fafhicoablc Steel and Cilt
Chains, &c. S- i for Sale by
* JOHN J. PARRY,
Clock and Watchmaker, No. iS. S. ad flr<rt.
i P" Clocks and Watches of all kinds ian fully
r apjirod.
May 19. tuef. & fa % 3w
For London,
TH E * HI p
WILLIAM FENN,
Jxmes 'totlAH, Majlcr.
WILL fail with all convenient fpted. For
ircight or pillage apply to
JeJe & Robert Wain.
The owners of Goods in the (hip
' Tenn, are rcqucHed to fenU their pcrmijs ou board
as Won a pciliLi#.
May 19 jJust arrived,
In li.' lu igi Tzvinj anil Fame,
A quantity of Havanna and St. Croix
Sugars,
Of the firll quality.
—OS II AO,—
Cho':Ce JAMAICA SPIHITS & St.Croi* ROM
"James Yard,
On Walnut-ftrctt Wharf.
'lay 3
Canal Lottery,
No. 11.
Scheme of a Lottery,
Authorized by an aft, entitled, "3n3&to
enable the Prefideni anil Man?seil of the
Schuylkill and Sufquchannah to
mile, by way of Lottery, the sum of Four
Hundred Thousand Dollars, for the purpose
of completing the works, in their afts of
incorporation mentioned."
Dollars
1 Prize of twenty thousand dollars, 20,000
1 of ten thuufand dollars, icr,coo
j of four thousand dollars each, to
be paid to the pofieffors of the five
numbers firft out of the wheel on the
last day's drawing, at which time there
fiiall not be less than 500 numbers un
drawn, jo, oo*
10 of two thousand dollars each, 20,000
20 nf oae thousand dollars each, 20,000
43 of five hundred dollars each, 21,500
100 of two hundred dollars each, 20,000
100 of one hundred dollars eich, 10,000
120 of fifty dollars each, 11,000
29500 of five dollars each, 147,500
30,000 Tickets at ten dollars each. 300,000
Six dollars for each ticket will only be de
manded at the time of Isle
All prizes (hall be paid ten days after the
drawing is finifhed, upon the demand of the
pofleflbr of a fortunate ticket, filbjefl to a de
duflion of fifteen per cent.
Such prizes as are not demanded within 12
months after the drawing is finifhed, of which
p iblic notice will be given, fliall be considered as
felinquifhed for ths use of the Canal and applied
accordingly.
At a Meeting of the President and Mana
gers of the Schuylkill and Sufqtiehanna
Canal Navigation—and the Prcfi'Jent and
Managers of the Delaware and Schuylkill
Canal,
Resolved, That Joseph Ball, JohnSteinmetz,
Standilh Forde, Francis Weft, James M'Crea,
John Miller, ju*. and William Montgomery,
be a committee to arrangeand direfl the mode
of difpofin? of the tie'eet; 1 which committee
Giali deposit this money in bank, to be carried
to the credit of an account to be opened for
the Lottery.
We the Commifn»ner« appointed by the Go
vernor to superintend the drawing of the Lot
tery, inform the public, that the tickets are
now rolling itp, and that the drawing will po
sitively coilimer.ee on Mondaythe 29th of May
next.
Frederick Kukl,
James AJh,
George Bud J.
Philad. April 17, 1797. 2aw
Tickets at fix dollars each to be had of tfce
managers, 01 at the canal office, near the bank
of the United States.
Lancafier, Harrijburgb, Carltjle,
Sotppenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
THE public are requested to take notice, that
the partnership which has far f'ome time fub
fifled between Mathias Slough of Lancaster, and
William Geer, is now dissolved: but, not as M.
£lou?h infinuatesto the public without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on thefu 1 -
jeS from M. Slough t* W. Geer, dated the 29th
December la!t a recital of which is not now deem
ed necefTary. Any gentleman who wishes to be
more circumftafitially informed of the merits of
this business, by applying to W. Geer may have
the P' pjU! »f M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at fuli liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not pcrfedly jaftifiabie in attaching him
felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
Now from the liberal and generous support the
public wjre pleafcd to confer on the firft effort in
this business, Vfilliam Geer, in conjunflion with
MefTrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tcntion and tfifpatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can poffihly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horfts, and every appurtenance to
render the padage fefe and commodious, inform
thofs who wish to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George Weed's, 'he sign ef the White Ht.rfe,
Mjikct Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancafier, HarriJburg
Carhflr and Shipprrrfburg The fare as hitherto
eflablifhed.
For the further accommodation of the public,
a Stage will Ilart every Wcdnefday from the house
of Samuel Klder, ih Harriiburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
and return from the»ce and arrive at Harrilburp
every Saturday, so that passengers destined for
Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed on Mon
days,
WILLIAM GEER.
Larcafler. Jan. 27, 1797.
N. 3. Tii> Line ef S'agss ftarta from tht
house of William Ferr»c, in Lancafier, on every
Tuesday and Saturday morning at ft o'clock, pro
ceeding to the westward; and from the house of
Mr. Samttel Elder in Harr.fburg every Wcdnef
day lVjrning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippcnfburg, and returns
frem thence on every Thursday : performing the
l'sme routine daily as iu its tour from Philadel
h>n - mwf
GOLD AND SILPlii
bullion.
TIIE highest price in ready money will be gi
ven for gold or filvrr bullion, old gold "or
silver, or gold dust, at No. 29, North Seventh-
Ureet.
. April 20 2«w6w
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal
Company,
Mai 1,1, 1797.
THE STOCKHOLDERS
WHO are in arr a sfor a .y fumsducon their
refpeiSive ftarcs, are reqccflcd to pay the
fame. '
WILLIAM COYErr, Treasurer.
10 «njw
To be rented,
A Range of STORKS ort Morion's v. harf. Pof
il fcflion may be had immediately
Enquire of
KEAkST WHARTOX,
10) South Water-street.
May l \
Building Materials
THE fubferiber has on hand, and offers for
file at a reduced price rot cash, or barter
for lumber, wet or dry goods, 78 trimmed win
dow frames, and sashes, each frame <
14 lights for 10 by 8 glass; both sashes may
he hung by weights. Tliefe frames are all made
of good materials, and will suit for town or
country bttildings.
If nought by carpenters for their employers,
their us .al profits will be allowed.
Plgafe apply at No. 18. north Severth-ftreet.
Conrad Bart ling.
N B. A second hand riding chair and har
nek for sale.
May 16 «3t
J\ otice.
April 3</. 1797.
THE Managers of the Canal Lottery, No-
If, an nounre to the public, that the
drawing will positively commence 011 the twen
ty-ninth of May ntxt. Tickets to be had of
either of the manages, and at the Canal Office.
Wm. MOORE SMITH, Sec'y.
April 3 mth, tl9thM
A New Work.
PROPOSALS
For printing and publtfhing, by '"ubfeription, The
History of Pennsylvania,
IN North-America from tHe original inftitut ion and
felt lenient of ih-it province. nnder the fiift propri
etor and governor, Willi m Penn, in 1681, 'till
■ after the year 1745; with
N IN RO DUCT lON
Refpefbng the Life of v* PENN,
Prior to the grant of that Province, and the reli
gion* Society of the o r ople called Q'wkrrs; with-the
FIRST RISE of the NEIGHBORINGCOI.ONIES,
particulaily of WES KNEW JK RSEY, and the
1 Settlement of the DUTCH and SWEDES on DEL A.
1 WARE.
To which it added,
A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SAID PRO
VINCE
And of the general (late, in which it flourHhed,
1 prine pallv between the vears 1760 and 1770. The
| whole including a variety of things, ufeful and in
| terefting to be known. rrfpc&ing that country inearly
time, &c. Wibi an appendix.
Written principally between the years 1776 and 1780,
» By Rcbrrt Proud.
J u Pulchrum ejl benefacere rtipublica etiam benedicere
haud abjuidum ?Jl t tel pace vel bclio clurum fieri hut**
sal. Cataiin.
11 Seilcum plerique arbitrentur rti b silicas majores ejfe
juam ur bunas, mmuenda eft hasc opinio."
Cic. Off.
(Entered according to law,)
41 WILLIAM PENN, the great legifiator of the
Quakers, (in Pennfylv nia)had the fuccefc of aeon
queror, in eilablifhing and deirnding its colony, a
mong favagt tribes, wuhou r ever drawing the sword ;
the goodnels of the most benevolent rulers, in trea
ting hisfubjefts as his own children ; and the tender
ncls of an universal father, who aptned his arms to
al? mankind without diltinftion o4 fe& or purtv. In
his Republic it was not his religious creed, but per
sona 1 merit that entitled every member of focicty to
the protection and emolument of the State "
EJJay on Toleration, by Arthur Q'Leary.
CONDITIONS
I. This work will be primed in two oftavo vol
ume.*, neatly bound and Ic tered. both in sheep and
calf, for the choice of the fubfcribeis; on paper simi
lar to that of the condUioos, as published in the Sub!crip,
tion papers.
11. The head of William Penn, handsomely en
graved. will be prefixed to the firft, and a map or
fkeich of Pennsylvania, and the parts adjacent, to the
feeond volume
111* T he price to fubferibers will be four dollars
and an half in sheep, ar»d five dollars in calf; —one
dollar to be paid at the time of fubfciibing. two dol
laison the delivery ot the fnft volume, and the re
mainder on the delivery of the second.
IV. When one thousand copies aie fubferibed
for, the work will be out to press and finifbed with
all conven ent expedition
Subscriptions will be received by Zachaiiah Poul
fon, jun Printer, No. 80, Chefuut-ftreet, and at the
Pniladelphia L'brary in Fifth-ftreet ; by Isaac Col
lins Printer, and J' feph James. Merchant, New-
York; by J hn P. Pleafantsaad G orgc W. Field,
Morchants. Baltimore; and by other persons both
in town and country.
February 18. tu&f
To be fold or let,
And immediate p e J[ e JJi f >n given,
A genteel two story Brick House ;
OITUATE on the u~per end of Broad-ltreet, in
O the city of Burlington, with four rooms and
an entry on each floor, good cellars under the
whole, a pump in the yard, a garden and court
yard, containing nearly half an acre under good
■ecce, with a liable adjoining the yard The
whole property is ip good order.
For terms apply to the fubfenber in Burlington,
who will give a credi' for a considerable part of
the pur chafe mcney if o od security is given.
William Coxe, jun. \
May 17. aawtf
notice.
THE Subscribers have strong retfons to be
lieve that the following evidences of (hares
in the Bank ot the United States have been 101 l
on their way from England— and give this pub
lie notice, that application will be made at the
proper offices for a renewal of the fame, viz.
No. 2077 iflued in lieu of No. 9705 to 9790
5 lhares
No. 1159 do. 16137, 16141 5 (hares.
10 (hares sent by the Polly, Capt. Clements,
to NoifoJk '
No. 1687 iflued in lieu of No. 6718 t» 6732
5 (hares
No. 1137 do. 566 to 570 5 (hares
No. 1711 do. 6266 to 6270 5 (hares
No 2740 do. 7668 to 7672 5 (hires
20 (hares sent by the (hip Friends, Capt. Cal
ver, to Norfolk. ;
! ihe whole iflued on the ift 1794, to
i John Barker Church and accompanied with
powers of transfer to the Subscribers.
In the months of C. dlfbtr and November
lad they to us by Findlay Ban
naiyne and Co. us London. Both of the (hips
it appears fiom the pub ie prints have been
carriad into the Weft-Indies by the French
and condemned, from which it is apprehended -
the pipjrs are dcitroyed. Steps have been taken
to prevent the improper transfer of the abeve '
Cures. t
Gabriel Wood & Co.
March 31.
Imported in the Jhip Pigou,
And for sale by John Morton, No. li6,South
Front-street,
Hyson
Hyson Skin C TEAS
Young llyion C
Imperial )
April 20. rots
For Sale,
rwo LOTS OF GROUND in Kensing
ton, on the south fide of Hanover-ftrect,
containing thirty-fix feit in breadth and one
hundred and sixty-seven and a half feet in
depth to a twenty feet alley Fcr further in
formation enquire at No. 37, Arch-street.
March 18. codtf
All persons who have any demands
Againfl the eflate of John Finlay, deceased,
ire requested to exhibit their accounts proper
ly attelted on or before the 20th of May next —
and those who are indebted to said eflate are re
quested to make immediate payment 10 either of
the Subscribers.
ROBERT HENDERSON, 7 . .. ,
JOHN M'CARA, 5 jUmimftraton
April 26. _
Translations.
MEMORIALS, advertifemeuts, epistolary,
and other writings in Fiench and En
glish, undertaken by Samuel Chandler, A. M.
■ translator of Le Moniteur, L'Obfcrvateur, Les
Quatre Fils Aymons, L'Heroine Araericain,
and many other French authors.
S. C. has been in the habit of compiling for
the mod approved publications, & occafionallv
attending where the hurry of bufineis may re
quire his immediate attendance.
Encouraged and aflifted by gentlemen of
abilities, he proposes publishing by fubferip
tion, a work in French and English, by the
title of The American Spectator. The profpefl
us may be seen at his lodgings, No. 67, Areb
-1 street.
| ■ t
Benjamin Jacob John/on,
No. 147 Market Street, Philadelphia,
VE just received bv the Conm &icut and other
late arrivals from Liverpool, a general aflprt
t roent ot well chosen
Dry Goods,
For the ensuing Season, for sale on the lowed terms
lor cash or the common credit
A large collision of Books at their usually mo
derate prices.
, 4th month, 85th, 1797, tw&f4
j To be fold at Public Vendue,
To the highest bidder, at the house of Mr.
, William Evans, the sign of the Indian
Queen, in the city of Baltimore, on the 25th
day of October next, at 11 o'clock, A. M.
: About seven thousand acres of land,
the property of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
lying between Reifter's-town and Westminster,
commonly called Little Winchester, (the turn
'■ pike road runs through a . onfidorable part of
these lands) the begina about 17 miles
from Baltimore, within a few hundred yards
of said Reiller's-town, and extends to the dis
tance of about twenty-three miles from Balti
more, and lie? on the main falls of Patapfico
river, from three to four miles thereon. Will
be fold in traifls of one hundred and fifty to
three hundred acre. There is a large propor
tion of meadow and wood land on each tradt,
some of them highly improved, with excellent
buildings and fine gnfs.
ALSO,
A trad of seven hundred acres of
land, called Clover Farms, within five miles of
Bladenfhurg, eiteemed very good fcr Grass.
Richard Ponfonby.of Bladenfburgh, will stew
this land to any person inclined to purchase.
also,
A traft of land of about three hun
dred ind thirty acres, within about two miles
ai.d a half o the President's house in the Fede
ral City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fine
high profpedl, fron which may be fcen the
city of Washington, Bladenfburgh, Alexandria
and' a part of George-town, and many miles
down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard Por.fon
by, of Bladenfhurg, will alf» /hew this land.
A liberal credit will be given for the greatcft
part of the purchase money. ,he terms will
be made known on the day of sale.
May 8 \v3nl
Georgetown Bridge Company.
Extrait of an adl pa (Fed by the of
the slate of Maryland on the 29th December,
1791, entitled, An adl'for ereifting a bridge
over Potowmac river.
'■ And be it ennSed, that the said direflors or
any two as them shall and may require any sum
or sums of money in equal proportion from each
and every proprietor, as may from time to time
be necessary for carrying on the building of said
bridge; and after giving three months public
notice, it shall and may be lawful for the direfl
ors to sue for and recover in the name of the
company such unpaid requisition, with all colts
and charges incidental thereto, and legal interest
thereon from the time the fame ftould have
been paid : And the negleft or refufal to pay any
such requisition after public notice ihall have
been given at least for three months in all the
newspapers heiein before enumerated, shall have
the effedt to forfeit all preceding payments made
on the fliare or shares io negledled or reiufed to
be paid ta the use ar.d benefit of tlie company."
I he above extracl is publilhed for the infor
mation of 'uch of the floekholders as have not
compliod with the requisitions heretofore made
—they ate as follow :On the ift November,
1795, 20 dollar-, on the toth May, 1796, 40
dollars ; an the loth July, 1796, 40 dollars ; on
the ift September, 1796, 40 dollars, and on the
ill November, 1796, 60 dollars Caution is
now given that after theexpi ation of the time
limited for the continuance of this advertise
ment (three months) the law will be carried
intorigidand complete effeft against all delin
quents.
By order of (he Direflors,
WALTER SMITH, Treafnrer.
Georgetown, way r, 1797. tawjm
Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64, South Second-street.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No.», for sale
—This Lottery will pofitivcly commence
drawing the 29th day of May next—Check books
! r rtg fteringand examination in.this, the City
of Washington, No. 2, and Paterfon Lotteries,
ow drawing, are kept—also information where
I icketsin Walhington, No. 2. and Farterfon may
be had—Tickets 1:1 th« Schuylkill Bridge Lottery
or sale at ten dollar* each, and as soon as iffucd
I'icketsin all the r. . r Lotterils authorized by the
of this .iate will l.c for sale.
The lubfcriber folic its the appli ation of the pub
lic and his friends who wish to fell bant flock, cer
tificates, bills of exchange or notes, houses, land,
See. or to obtairv money on deposit of property
triLLIASI BLACK BUR!-}.
April S. jaw
Divertimenti;
Or, Familiar Lessons for the
PIANO FORTE.
To which is prefixed,
A Ground for the Improvement of young Prafli
tioners: •
COMPOSE!") by R. Taylor, muSc profeffbr,
Philadelphia, published this day. price two
dollars, printed for the author, No. 96, North
Sixth-street, and fold at Carr's musical repositories
Philadelphia and New Yoik, ami Ormrod, No.
41, Chefnut-flreet ; where may he had by the
fame author, a var cty of serious, comic and paf
acral songs, rondo lor forte piano, leflcn for two
performers on oac inflrumtnt, &c. &c. fitc.
May 16. w3t
Tt. L holders of Robert Morris and John Ni
cholfau's notes and acceptances, dcpcfited as
collateral securities for the engagements of Edward
Fox and JamesGnenleaf, are requeftcd to
TAKE NOTICE
That the fubferibers, it the requefl and by the
authority of the holders of near nine tenths o the
amount of the paper above alluded to, have receiv
ed from George Simpfon, Efq an affignnunt of the
trull under which the said notes and acc< stances
are secured, together with ail the deeds and obli
gations thereunto attached—therffore any applica
tion tor sale of any part of fa.d propertyis to be
made to THOMAS W- FRANCIS,
HENRY PRATT,
JOHN MILLER, jun.
JOHN ASHLEY,
JACOB BAKER.
March 1.. m&th f
300 Dollars Kevvard.
WHEREAS a certain Chrillopher F.Pamell,
failed from Bolton, on or about the 27th
of Oflober lift, in the sloop Union, with a valua
ble cargo, hound to Baltimore, but went off to
the Weft-Indies where he fold the vessel and
cargo. On or about the firft inll. he was appre
hended (as a fufpiciouscharatfler) in this town,
and examined before ftveral magistrates, but
for the want of fufficient proof to detedl him
in his villany he was discharged.
The fadl is, the fiid Parnell is a villain, and
is attempting to defraud sundry persons to the
amount of 10,000 dollars.
He left this town about the Joth inft. he
rode in a chair (painted green) drawn by a grey
mart, and went on the Newbfrn road, but on
this fide Trenton, took the road of Fayetteville,
and mod probably ii palling through the back
part of the (late into the weftcrn countries.
He had when he left this town, upwards of
2000 dollars in gold, and about jooo dollars in
bank notes.
Parnallis a small man, about 30 years of age,
much pock-marked, and has long black hair,
remarkable Imall eyes, and has a down look
when spoken to.
Whoever will secure the said Parnell, and
the money he has with him, and give informa
tion to Benj .Williams of Baltimore, John Hogg,
Ffq. at Hillfborough, to Mr. A. Jocelin, of this
town, or to the fubferiber, who is in pursuit of
the villain, ihall receive the above reward.
ABNEK CRAFT.
Wilmington, (N. C.) April 26, 179 J
—_— . ;-i tii
City of Washington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificent dwelling-house 20,000 dollars,
& calh 30,000, are io <*"
I ditto 15,000 & call 25,000 40,000
I ditto 15,000 je cash 15,000 30,000
1 ditto to,ooo & calh 10,000 ao,o»o
I ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
I dittQ 5,000 & c«fk 5,000 to,ooo
I cash prize of 10,000
» do. 5,000 each, ire « to, 000
to do. i,ouo • • 10,000
10 do. 500 • . 10,000
00 do. zoo - . io,ono
200 do. 50 - • io,o«e
400 do. . 10,000
XtOOO do. . 20,000
15,000 do. to - 150,000
'6>739 Prizes.
33,261 Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. To favour those who may take a quan
tity of Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the l' st drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but one :
And approved note 3, securing payment in either
money or prizes, in ten days alter drawing will
be received foi any number not less than 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of
the private buildings to be ereiled in the City of
Washington—Two beautiful designs are already
(elefked for the entire fronts on two of the public
squares; from thefc drawing' it ispropefed toerecl
two centre and 'our c orner buildings as fooo as pos
sible after this lottery is fold, ant! to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner described in the fchemc for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduction of five per cent, will
be made to defray the necessary expenses of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National University, to
be erefied within the city of Walhingtou.
The real securities given for the payment of the
Prizes, are held by the President and two Direfl
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount ot the lattery.
SAMUEL HLODGET.
»§„ Tickets may be had at the Bank of Colum
bia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter
Gilman, Boflon : of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
and of Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry.
mwf
ror bale,
At the Office ot the Gazette of the United
States, No. 119, Chefnut-flreet,
The la/i Report oj the late Secretary
of the Treifury; b«ng a brief hiflory of the
slate of financial concerns of the United States.
The Proceedings of the Executive
of the United states refpedling the weflern in
furreflion : Containing many fa>-b and cir
cumflances no where else to be found. 50
cents.
The Letter of Mr. Pickering to
our minister in France. 37 1-2 cents.
An Account of the Receipts and
Expenditures of the United States for the year
179.;-
A few copies of the volume for 1794 may be
had to complete setts.
D'lvernois' account of the Revo
lution in Geneva. ia i-» cents.
April 3. £
Mr. Pickering's Letter to Gen.
Pinckney.
A few espies of the above istireftirg paper,
may be had at Che oScs of the Gazette cf the U- 1
cited States.
Mayi; 5
TEAS.
A FEW chests of Imperial, Hyson Skin and
Souchong Teas of a superior quality for
fa!e it the store of the fuhferiber, the north
west corner of Market and Third-streets.
Patent Shot.
ALSO,
A large CELLAR to i c let at a very low rent.
Enquire as above of RICHARD WISTAR.
April 29. ftu&thira
For Sale,
> At this Office,
No. 119 Chefnutjlrett,
A few copies of a late Report of a Committee
of the Senate, on the fubjeil of the
1 GEORGIA LANBS.
March 13 £
Wanted to hire,
In the city of Philadelphia or neighborhood,
A Malt-house and Brewery.
For fC.ther particulars please apply, to the
' Printer hereof.
May 5. £ lwr
SWAN N'S
Riding School, Accdemy & Infirmary t
* Adjoining the Public .Square, Market Street.
T. SWANN
RETURNS hi» sincere thankt to those gentlemen by
whom he ha« been employed, during hiirefidtnce in
this City, end flatten himfelfthat the fucceft of hit
efforts, in the numerous, obflinatc and dangerous diC—
eafes in Horfr s, io which he hat been cnnfulted, to
getherwith hi* moderate charges, will (ecure their
future favori and recommendation.
He now beg« leave to inform them and the public
at large that his spacious and cdmmodious pfrmifci,
erefled for the purpofet above de.scribed are open for
the reception of pupils of ertner sex, who wish to be
inflrufcted in the Art of Riding, and the right method
of governing their horses, so as to ride them with
eale elegance, and fafety—their horses will be care
fully and rxpeditioully broke, for every pur soft, and
made obedient to he will ot the riders ; the natural
powers whicn are (hul up in them, will be unfolded
by art, ca ling forth uniturmitv of motion, and giving
to that noble animal all those beauties of aflion which
r rovidence has so bountifully bellowed on tt em.
Also.at his hospital. every diloraerto which the
horse is liable will be treated according to !hi rules of
art, confirmed by lengand repeated experience.
The utility of the above inllitution has uever btta
qneftioned, that tr has long been waatrd in* this citv,
every gentleman's stud willmanifed, and T. Swtjt's
as the firft eftablifher of the veterenary art, foiicits and
relies upon the fuppottof thar public (which he i*
ever anxious in serving) to enable him to biingit to
per faction. The idea of a fabfeription for that pur
pose hat beeu hinted by several gentleman, who wish
:to promote the inftitutioo-tbe amount ot each fr.tr
fcripion to be returned by Services in any of tbe tie,
: partmenta he profefles, agreeable to the rate of charges
in his hand bill. Suchfublcription is now o
! pen, and the signatures of many refpegable gentlemet»
'blamed. He therefore injurms bis frienda
and fu< h Ladies and gentlemen to whnn) be has not
'he honor of being known, that he (hall in a few
days takethe liberty of waiting upon them and fblici
ting 'heir support and prot- ft ion.
N. B. Hoiles sre properly prepared for those JLa
'dtei«ad Gemlemeiiwho wish to be rriilf
Nov 5. tthdrf.
Chocolate and Mustard
Manufa<s\ured 29 usual,
Ginger and tepper pround
Shelled or Pearl Barlev
Bhiladelphia Porter, feeer, Ale and Cyder
London Porter
Taunt»n and Burton Ale
Red Port and other Wines, cithe bottled,
or by the otpe, quarter cask or gallon—suitable
for exportation or home consumption—
• tor Sate by
John Haworth.
No. 9S louth Front street.
May |8 th4w
NOTICE.
IF JOSEPH WESSELS, formerly of Londatf,
who came paflenger in the ship Faflor, ra
Philadelphia, in the year 1794, will apply at
No. 197 Market street, he will lwrar of fome
thinp to his advantage. Any information re
fpefling hirn will b: thankfully received.
May 1 a #
CLA R E T
OF THE
Vintage of 1792,
In cases of 24 and 30 bottles each,
for SALP B/
RUNDLE GC LEECH.
March 19 mwftf
An excellent Stand for Business,
With Stat juitablc thereto.
THE fubferibert, affigiuts of Jofrph Meif.
son, offer for sale all the stock of goods ori
hand, lately belonging to said Meirion, consist
ing of a great variety of liquors, groceries, &c.
Any person wishing to engagt in business as a
grocer, will have an opportunity of purchasing
the whole of the retail store on reasonable terms,
and can immediately get poflsttion of it, at the
corner of Strawberry alley and Chefnut-ftreet,
which has been longknown as an excellent stand
for that line of business. If not fold in ten
days, the whole of that, with a large quantity
of wines, St. Croii and New-England rum,
&c.&c. will be put up to public audion.
For terms apply to
David Walker,
Wm. Buckley, or
Samuel Keith.
May 10 £
| TO BE RENTED,
And may be entered upon at any time,
THATforcibleand wel! improved water works
on Brandywine, three miles fiom the town
of Wilmington, in the state of Delaware j
Consisting of
A large, convenient Slitting Mill,
In complete order, having fcvcral pair of rclU
and cutters of every iize.
A large, Stone Merchant Mill,
Having three pair burr stones, boulting works,
corn kiln and every other neceflary apparatus.
A Saw Mill,
In the best order, and a pair of timber wteels.
A Smith's Shop and Tools.
To'accommodate these works there it a large
commodious stone dwelling house, kitchen and
•wash house and a number of dwelling houlea
for workmen, with gardens adjoining ; two large
stone (tablet, two stone coal houses, and a coop
er's ihop, with meadow and pasture grounds.
If the tenant chafes he may have the oppor
tunity te purchafc ao excellent te.m of five hor
ses, waggt B, coal carriages and bed, with a
stock of coal in tbe coal houses f'jffirient to mi
nufafture three hundred tons of iron.—Apply to
RUMFORD DAWES,
No. 7, South \Va:et-ftreet.