cf tin tJltfS, and Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
1563. J
SALES BV AUCTION.
Stated Sales
JV nRT GOODS.
r Forenoon-Edward *Fok, No. 56,
Mend 71 ■ Front-street,
) Afternoon—Foo«i.tatt & Co. ito. 65
( South Front-street.
( Forenoon—John Connelly* Old City
Au<3ion, No. 73 fout'h Front-flreet.
J '~ " Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
C 183 ftigh-ftreet.
"■*•#» S A SK k T^ nf "' N °'"
Fridtv ? Forenoon—Lillians Shannon.
' Afternoon—John Conneliy.
Saturday Afternonn—Peter Benfon.
"'For HAMBURGH]
r "I~'HE Copper Bottomed Shin
i-Af. I F A V-.O KIT E, John
Thompson, Matter, now at
•A Bright's wharf", and will be rea-
V to take in on Monday nest,
part nf her cargo being engaged
and to go on board. The (hip is so well
known, that it irneedlefs to describe her. She
is now in compleat order. For Freight or Pas
sage, please to apply at Mr. Jeremiah Warder's
Compting House, No. la, North .Third street,
or to the Matter on bo| d.
August 30.
For SALE,
On board the said Ship, Sweclilh Iron, alTorte 3
Hollowand Window Olafs, Demvjufcns, Wrap
ping Paper for Sugar Refiners, Rugs of t 4.1
Quality. Please to apply as above.
wfA.m4w
White Havanna Sugnr.
1461 boxes > of very fuperiorqualiiy now difcharg
-71 hhds. ( ing from the Clip Hamburgh Racket,
Walr.ut Stress vharf—and for sale by
Philip Nicklin Qo.
N. B.
THE SHIP
Hamburg Packet,
,^' LAS Swain, Matter,
For Sale, or Charter.
Aug. a 4. eotf
COMMISSIONERS' SALES,
r T , HE Commissioners of the counties ofLy-;
X' coming and Northumberland, have given
notite that they intend to proceed to the sale of
land*, for the arrearage of taxes, on the 7th of
September next.
gT The different printers in tbjs city will
render an eflential service to a great number of
individuals by publi(hing this notice. »
Aug. 18.
, ~~TorTsale,
BRETAONES In cases
German Checksin do.
Camjirick
Pint trills
Oznabrigs
■ Cold and silver Watches
Window (Jlafs 10 by 8
Glass Tumblers in cases
Liirfced Oil in calks, icc. See.
George Pettnock,
103, High-SireU.
Jnly 5. •_ 3' lw
N O T I C E.
IF Thedy O'Hara, who foine years fincekept
School at the Nine Bridges, Queen's County, Eas
tern Shore, Maryland, be living, he is hereby re
minded to call on, or write to, the Rev. Anibrofe
Marlhal, near Warwick, Ceeil Co"unty, Eaftefn
Shore, Maryland, from whom he will receive iu
tej-efting information.
Augujf 4. mw&f4«r
thFsubsgribers,
ASSICNEES OF JAMES GREEN LEAF,
HEREBY give notice, that they have disposed
of the property assigned to thenri for fecuring
the payment of the note r , acceptances, ?nd en
dotfenients given by Edward Fox, for the use
of iheftid James Greenleaf; and the holders of
such notes, acceptances, and endorsements,, are
hereby notifyed that the fubferibers will fettle
with them for the amount of their rcfpeilive
claims, both principal and intereit, at
any time before the actli day of Oflober next;
after which day, the holders not applying, will
be excluded, agreeably to the terms of aflign
ment.
Applications to be made at foiith-eaft corner
of Dock and Second streets (tffe Dock-street
fide), between the hoars of tleven and one o'
(lock eveiy day. Sundays excepted.
Henry Pratt,
Tho. fV. Francit,
'John Miller, Jun.
John AJlley,
Jacob Baker.
Philadelphia, August 18, 1797. d
The Inhabitants of the Diftridl
of Southwark,
ARE informed that a Coachee is provided, to be
kept at the Constables' office, the north ea(l
corner of Front and Almond streets, where* the
friends of those sick persons who desire to be re
moved to the-City Hospital, are requested to make
application—Also, a Hearse will l>« kept in readi
ngs for the removal of the dead.
JONATHAN PENROSE-
N. B.—The Poor, who wi(h to remove to the
Tents on Schuylkill, may be furnifhed with orders
by applying as above. Auy. 1<)
Imported in the latelt arrivals from
Amsterdam and Hamburg, |and for sale by
B. y J. Bohlen,
A large ajfsrtnunt of fine French Cambrics,
Platillas Kudia and Dutch faijcloth
Brittannias Writing, pott, and print-
Rouanes infr paper
Brown Holland Dutch calf fkine
■Checks and stripes Prime madder
Ticfclfnbur'gs Shell'd Barley
OEiiab\irgs Looking glafles
White sheetings Hollow glaft ware
Diaper Slates %
Brown rolls Coffee mills
Umbrellas Brass kettles
Hair ribbons Scythes and draw knives
Black and whitelaces Toys assorted in boxes
Best Holland Gin in pipes
Lqndon partictilar Madeira Wine
July 34. jri&'htf
PH IL AD E L PHI A
This Day Published,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNQ, corner of
Second and Chefnut streets,
Price of a Dollar,
Observations on certain Documents
, Contair.cdi'i No. V ami VI of
".The History of the United Statss for
i the year 1796,"
In which the chaboe or speculation against
' ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
• Late Secretarv cf the Treasor, i« FULLY
REFUTED.
IT RITT X,v 11 r UIMS El T.
1 This publication presents a ccncife (latement
of the base means pratflifed by the Jacobins of the
United State; to asperse the characters of those
purfons who are confideted as hofhle to their difor- ;
gapizing schemes. It also contains the cor- |
refpondence between Mr. Hamilton and Messrs. (
Monroe, Muhknburgh and Venable, qn the sub- (
je<S of the documeuts aforefaid, and a series of let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha
> milton, proving beyond the poflibility of a doubt,
> that the connection between him and Reynolds,
t was the, result of a oaring conspiracy on the part
- ; of the latter a»d hi< associates to extort money.
, ; '■ A discount of one third from the retail price '
1 will be made in favor ol wholesale purchasers, for
1 cash. Orders to be addressed to Mr Yo»ng.
. Augufi 15.
i Th.e Norfolk Mail STAGE. i
' • _____
' ' 'HU Stage starts from the GF.ORGE Tavern,
J. at {he corner of Second and Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, every Tut/Jay, TturfJaj, and Satur
-1 day, at 3 o'clock, in the nrorning ; arrive* at Uo
. ver the firl't day, at Snowhill the second day, at r
Northampton Court Houle the third dsy, and on |
the morning of the fourth day the paffengcrs find
a fafc and qiynfortable jacket to collvcy tham to
Norfolk. 1
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton feiry,
every Tuefd>y, Thursday and Saturday, and the
• Stage starts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
1 Monday, Wednesday and Friday ;jputs up at Snow
Hill thefirft night, at Dover the ad night, and ar
rives iu Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day. ■*
Thediftance on this route, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, it So miles left than 011 any stage route
between those places 1
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road,
which is most excellent indeed. TKe proprietors
willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
passenger, who, after having performed this route, 1
will fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the fame 1
diftnnce, so good a road in America. 1
August 11. dim.eotf.
Philadelphia, isth July, 1797.
NOTICE is hereby given, that separate pro
pofaU with sealed covers will be receivod
' at my office until the eleventh day of September
next, to furnith by contrail the following ar- 1
tides for the nle of the Army of the United
States in the year 1798-
First Contrail for I
8 Sergeants coats "J
a Mulicians, do. ] i
10 Sergeants vests S Dragoons. 1
116 Privates eoati I 1
116 Privates vests J
64 Sergeants coati ' '
3a Mulicians, do.
96 Sergeants tests
191 Woolen nveralla ArtitlcrifU
' . 191 Linen overalls &
936 Privates coats Engineers.
936 do. vests
1872 Woolen overalls
187 a' Linen do.
144 Sergeants coats
7» Mulicians, do.
116 Sergeants vests
43a Linen overalls
43a Woolen do. - Infantry*
1893 Privates coats
189 a do. vests
3784 Woolen overalls
3784 Linen do. J
lit Centra#, for iaBB Sergeants (hirte
11816 Privates do.
Ix6oo Socks
ad Contrail, for a7a pair leatherbreeches
3d Contract, for iti pair boots
4660 pairfhoes, No. I
Bcoo patT do. No. a
4th Contrail, for 103 a Artillerists and Engi
neers hat-s
aioß Infantry do.
136 Dragoon caps
The whole to be delivered at the city of Philt-
I delphia, viz.
One fourth on or before the 15th Fe- I
bruary next. \
One f»urthan or before the 15th day of A
. p'ril next.
> The remaining half on or before the 15 th day
of Jane next. '
The articles are to be agreeable to flich pit
terns as ihall be direfled by the Secretary for the
Department of War.
Payments to be made as soon as the artiele
(hall be delivered, and palled infpeilion.
TENCH FRANCIS, Purvey/*
eotlithSep.
Young Hyson Tea.
4® cherts of a superior quality—Also,
100 do.of Hyson,
Imported in the Woodrop Sims, and for sale by
the fubferibers, corner of Second and Pine
[ street.
C. Haight.
June Hi , eotf
1 Imported in the Jhip Pigou,
And for sale by John Morton, No. 116, South
Front-street,
Hyson
Hylon Skin ( TEAS •
Young Hyson (
Imperial j •
April 28. eotf
Chocolat'e and~Muftard
t Manufactured as usual,
Ginger Pepper ground
Shelled 01* Pearl Bark-y
Bhlladelphia Porter, Seer, Ale and Cyder
London Porter
Taunton and Buifon Ale tf
Red Port and other Wines, eithe bottled,
or by the pipe, quarter-calk or gallon'—suitable
for exportation) or home cnnfuipption—
For Sale by
John Hawirth.
N». 98 south Front llfiat
By John Fekko x N 3 - 119 Chefnut Street.
Hrggins' Specific
FOR MS'
PREVENTION AND I URK OF THE
T£J.i.our&rzx.
j fine-this dd'e.rf.'tiii-v »»4:h in t'ii»
: a i city an.-t New-i ork,-the«'uth.ir has turnaji f-.is
attention to itscaules ar j fury.— 1 rhe reiul. of his
enquiries has Coi vineed hini that the rtafdn why so.
few persons recover from Its attack.., ari? from its
not being well underdood, and the conftquefct
wror,g methoil taken to cure it. Hi! is
that thcexceflire bleedjgns and nVerciirisl rcatment
of the Faculty Is highly ihjurions, and that the on
ly ration?imode of treatment isby the use of proper
acids, Coivinced ot this he offers his Specificns a
certain remedy, if used accotding to the dire&ions.
To be had in bottles, at one dollar each, of the
inventor Cm. Higgins, Cherry street, two doom a
bove Ninth street, (hte manager of Jackson and
Co's Medicine Warehouse, London); by J.it
tlanc, No. 116 ; IV. Griffith, No. 177, T, ftarn, No.
ai, South I bird street, 'T. Stijj\
near Vine street, and J. Gaits, No. 36, Race Arcet.
Aug. z;. tuths jt
R' A N - A W A Y,
ON the ift. inji. from the Subscriber, an
apprentice lad, named Kendal AJerrili,
abon: twenty years of age, by trade a Tailor,
and had about fix months to serve. Any per
iou who will apprehend (aid run away, so that
he may be leturned to the Sulifcritcr, will
receive a handsome reward and itafomble
charges.
EDWARD GRAHAM.
Sept. 7. co„ *3t.
City Comniijjiouers Office,
August 29, 1797.
IN ptirfuance of an Ordinance of the Select and
i Common Councils, palled «K 14<J day of May lalt.
Proj ofals in writing willl.e reeeivcJ by the City
Comnnffioners for one month from tie ift of Sep
tember next, for letting to rent on lol'es for one
year to commence the Srll
following public property of the city—
The whaif and landing on .Vine Street,
Also on Saffafras,
Mulberry,
And High Streets,
Chefnut and Walnu^ Streets, Drav Bridge, with
the Scale and Filh Hooles, Spruce, Pine and Cedar
Streets.
The cellar under the City-Hall.
The Tavern at the middle fcrry on Schuylkill,
with the lots contiguous thereto, (exctpt so much
thereof as (hall be occupied by any buidings erefl
ed for the use of the Collefior of the Tolls, or be
necessary for the toll-gates.)
Ang. 3 3tawim.
T O BE SOLD,
And pojfejjion givtn immediately,
ALARGK two ttory trick H oofe.handfomely
situated in Princeton. There are four rooms
aud a large entry on each floor, and five rooms in
the garret, range of back buildings 51 feet in
length, and apiaxiaof 57 feet. There is a pump
in the yard, an excelleut kitchen garden, at the
farther end of which are a carriage house and two
stables, one of which is new, 44 feet long, with
ft alls in the two stables for JJ-linrf** Th*» K«al
thin&ft mid pleafantneis ot its (ituatidn, and the
number of genteel and agreeable families in and
near the town, reader it a desirable retrceat for a
gentleman from the city. Thecommodieufnefs of
the house, its central position, and the largeness of
the stables, make it every suitable for n tavern, for
which it has always been considered as a capital
(land. Inquire on the premises, of
ISAAC SNOWDEN, jon.
Princeton, Ang. 29 —dlwaawpf
80 Dollars Reward.
LAST night the shop of the fubferiber was«p
ened, and several articles taken off, viz. a
common black lt ather pocket book, containing two
twenty dollar notet of the last emifiion of thcPcnn
fylvania Bank and a number of loose papers —
one pinchback watch with a carved cafe, and fix
ftlver opes—one of these a French watch, original- |
ly made to tell the day of the month, but this part
of the works had been taken out—the figures on the
dial plate were left—Another was made by Lovc
lsncU London, the number 3113 ; a third was mark
ed on the dial plate as well as the intide Amber,
New-York. No further particular* are recollect
ed. Whoever discovers the thief, or xhicves, (o
that they may be prosecuted to convi&ien and th«
property recovered, shall have the above reward.
Forty dollars will be f .id for the aloue,
or in proportion for any p«rto'*t.
THOMAS LIMDSAY.
N. B. all watchmakers are requested to flop
he above watches if offered lor lale.
Frankford, August 19.
Aup. ax. et>Bl.
IMPO R r E b
Im tho fliip America, James Ewinj, maftar, from
Hamburgh,
; Brown Hollands
white Platillas
Coarfc Linens
Tapes
Looking Glades "> . .
Glass Tumblers j '
roe. sall ar
George Pennock.
August 14. jaw
An elegant House in Arch Street.
TO be Jet and entered on immediately a large
and elogint house at the Corner of Arch and
Ninth Street. There are two drawing rooms,
and one dining room—the largest is 31 feet by
16 —and two are so cor Ailed by folding doors
as to make but one. Ado, Sve bed rooms, be
des j in the garret, well Ibriftied for servants.
There are stables and a coach house, with evry
convenience for a family. Enquire at No. 39,
in North Seventh street, or at No. ajß, Arch
Street;
Aug. 15. 1.1W3W.
PETER BORGER,
INFORMS his frieqds and the public in general
that he has removed from No. 119, corner of
Arch and Fourth, to No. 105 North Front, be
tween Areh and Race streets.
July g«. aaw4w
Ro/s & Sim/on,
—-HAVE FOR SALE—
s Hogsheads,
Exc«llent Coffee in ). Tierces, and
C. Barrels.
A small parcel of nice cocoa in bags
A few puncheons Jamaica spirits, fourth proof
Superior Teneriffee wine, ©ld and in Madeira pipes
An invoice of jewellery ufad hofifry t« be {pld by
the package
A few hampejrs best Engliih chiofe.
July dtf.
TUESDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER it, 1797.
N O T I e E.
ALT. fhofp-who have any claims ' against the
cftatc of J<>hv Cole, Untbrolla Maker, late
u§cf«fed, will within a month ffbftfc the date
Hereof, to Mrs. Coic, at the south faft corner of
Green and Second ftrectsu, for their arrangement.
N. B. If .til «Aemaiids are not sent in before the
expiration, of the ahovementiened time, they will
not be allowed, as his property will be difpofedof.
Sept. , . *,n
Imported in thefhip Manchester,
Benjamin S-hewell, Master,
From Boimlcaux, and fur sale by the fubferiber,
, No. ii Walnut Street.
Bonrdeaux Brandy "1
Iri(h.market claret in cases ( Entitled to
Medoc wine, in do. I~ Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgairsyd.
V/H'O HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter casks
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
4000 bulhels Liverpool fait.
A PERSON. OF INGENUITY, lataly arrived
frruw Europe, wifaes to find here a place in
the quality of a'Dire&or of a Glafs-houfc, Chryf
tal of all kinds, having particular means for the
conflrudlion of the kilns, pots, &e. and poflefling
likewise the used in the Glals houses of
Ei gland and France, having werked a leng while
in tn«ft of them. Every exertion will be made to
render the manufactory deferyingof publieappro
br.tion—He, who wiflies to speak to Jiina, will hnd
him at No. 175 Front-ftieet.
A HUTU ft 14,
Fur Vale or let oh ground
*' rent,
A -ualunblt Lot GrouiiJ ;
SITUATE on the north-eift corner of Wal
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State-
House square. This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at
present two small two story brick houses, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Also, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, 4tc. situate on
Water-street, between Mulberry ami Saflafras
streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east
ward ninely-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. Thef'e houses
ave the convenience of a public alley adjoining
on the north fide, and are a very desirable situa
tion for a merchant, flour factor,or others who
m'ay have occasion for storage of goods. This
property will be fold on very reasonable terms
for cash. For further information apply to the
printer.
July 3t. m&wtf
Thi Stubfiziher has for Salty .
A large assortment of India Muilins,
coarse and fine
India Calicoes
Sooty Roinalls
B'ue Cloths and Checks
Bandanna Handkerchiefs
Blue red and Gilli Handkerchiefs
An invoice of Irilh Linens and Sheetings, well
aflbrted
A box of Diapers
Silk Umbrellas
Two boxes ef fine Spice*, cotaining Nutmegs,
Mace and Cloves
Black fepper of firft quality
East India Ginger
Java Sugar _ *
A quantity of Madeira Win*
Ditto of Gin
Roll Briaiftore -
Mordecai Lewis.
Au%ufl IX. jawim
Cedar Shingles.
fubferiber has a quantity of 3 feat Cedar
Shingles of a superior quality, for sale tit 13
dollars per thoufcnd.
William Hnllewell,
A T o. 193 North Third-Jlreet.
July if. * «<Slot
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, an*
CONSUMPTIONS.
Just received, by Wm. Griffiths,Nb. 177, South
Second-ftrect, a irclh supply of
Genuine Bal/am of Honey,
A Medicine invented by the late Sir John Hill
(who knowledge as a Botanist procured liim
the appellation ef the Linnxus of Britain) end is
aonfldered in England as a certain eurc for the above
complaints ; it is also of finglihr efficaoy in th*
Hooping Cough,
It may also be had retail of W. A. Stokes, No.
61, South Second-ftieet, and T. Stiff, jj, Ncw
ftreet, in bottles at 75 cents each.
Wm. Guiffithi. having oblervedthc happy e£-
feft of the medicine, (several cases of cures hav
ing come within his own knowledge) and the great
demand for it has induced him to #rder a large
supply, apart of which he has just received.
August 3. . lawjw^
At a Meeting of the Board of
Property, June 6, 1797»
Present John Hall, See'ry.
Francis Johnfton, R. G. > of land office
Dan. Brodhead, S. G■)
Nicholas Bettinger,
•versus >
Samuel Cunningham.)
is this cafe the proof of service of notice be
ing inefficient, It is ordered that notice be giv
en in one of the Philadelphia and York newspa
pers weekly, for at least eight weeks to the
heirs or aflignees of Sawiiiel Cunningham de
ceased, to .atttend the board on thefirlt Monday
in November next, to fhewcaufe why a patent
fliould not iffne to Nicholas Bettingei for the
land in queltion.
IA trse Copy.) >
JOHN HALL,
Secretary of the Land Office.
Aug. if. ' * rawßw.
—, —" - -
Excellent Bourdeaux Brandy
Bitto diKT Claret in cases
Just received, and for Sale by
Rundlc Es* Leeth.
Au7. it. _ 'aawtf
' •
i somas Herman Leupfer,
North Fifth ftraet, corner of North alley, No. 34.
HAS FOR ULI,
EXCELLENT red Boucieaux Wine in cs£usan4
i boxes, fix. years old ,
White Gravei Wine in ca£k«
ricklfobiipgs -
Russia Sail Cloths
Ravens Duck
Bag Liaen
Hefliaps
Diaper and Table Cloth
Empty bags
Cerawioa German Cloth ,
afTortment of black coloured RibboM
Fine German Laces
About twelve tons Russia clean Hemp
Clover Seed
Italian Soap, in small boxes, for family ufu
Window Glass Aug; it) —•2iw
THIS DAY WAS PUBLISHED,
And for (ale by THOMAS DOB SON, at the
Stone Houfc, No. 41, south Second Greet,
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED.
Confiliing of a variety of Mifeellaneoiw Pieces for
theinftrudion and ainufementof YBUNG PER
SONS—Six Volumes handsomely printedand bound
up in two volumes, price Two Dollars.
The variety and excellence of thefc pieces are
such, that the book needs only to be kiiown to b«
universally esteemed one of the most valuable pub
lications th t can be put into the hand# of young ,
persons: ,
" Delightful taflc to rear the tender thought,
To teach the young fdea how to (hoot,
To pour the frelh inllrutflion o'er the'mind, *
To breathe th* enlivening fpirit,und to fix
The generous purpose in theglewing breast."
Thomson.
August zj. mwf4w
" rHIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS DOBSON, at the Houf#,
No. 41, south Second street,
Letters and Conversations,
Between several Young Ladies y on improving and
terefting fubje&s.
TraHflated from the Dutch of Madstne de
with alterations and improvements,
Printed onJine paper, and neatly bund,
Price §ne dollar.
AMIDST the tide of modern Romances, painting
tales ©f extraordinary distress, or of desperate c<r
artful villainy, which 14 harrow up the foul," and
which it wouki be for the honor of young ladfes to
be ignorant of, this little book conies forward to f<>
licit notice, where, in & variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds of real Iffi, the proper, bgeaufi
elegit and natural dignity and importance of the Female
ebarkfler is exhibited in an intcrefting point of view,
andprefeiits examples of real and attainable excel
knee.
The publisher was fomuch pleaded with the pert*
sal, that he was persuaded he (hould do a pleafin j
service to the community by fending it in o circu
lation. August 24 —mwiw
To Master s and Pilots bringing up Vejfsk
from Foreign Ports to this ( City.
WKctcavAhi di y infringements have lately bee*
made on the laws of this {late for the pro*
venting petyilential or infe&ious difeafes,#ithc*
from ignorance or inattention thereto, it is tho't
expedient at this time to publifti the following ex*
tracts from the laws of aad April, 1794, 7th audi
Bth fedions;
HEALTH-OFFICE.
June 6th, ty94.
ExtraS »f an aft for securing the city and port
of Philadelphia from the intrudutiion of pest i
lential and contagious difcafes.
Sect. 7.'And be it further enaAed, that svery
matter or captain of any (hip or veflel eomir.g from
fca (Ytifvli actually employed 11 the loading; trade
excepted) and bound to any port or place wirhin
the jurifdiftion of Pennfylvjnia.fha 1 cause hie (tip
'or veflel to be brought toanchdr,or otherwise ftay
*d in the ftream'of the river Delaware,"tfppefita ts
the Health-Office 011 State-Island aforefaid, and
there to remain until he flrall have duly obtained a
certificate or bill of fceahh from the Resident Phy
sician. And il, previfiufly to obtaining such certi
ficate or bill of hialth, any master or captain (hall
fuft'ef hisfhip or veffelto approach neartrthan the
said Health-Office to the city of Philadelphia, or
shall land, cause erfuffer to b« landed, or brought
on (bore, at any place or port within this Com
monwealth, or at any oth«r port or place, with the
intent of being conveyed into this Commonwealth,
any person or perfoiu, or any goods, wares or mer
chandise, or, if after receiving such till of health
enertificats, he (hall r.egk at or refufe to deliver
the fam* to the Health-Oificer, such master ot cap
tain fliall forfeit and p'y, for each and every fucl»
offence, thefumof rr/E humdrzd dollars.
And the captain or master of every (hip or ves
sel (hall fend a.fafe and commodious boat to- bring
the |>hy!ician or. board, and (hall in like manner
con v. j him back to the Health-Office, after he ha«
concluded his official examination ; And while he
is miking such examination, or in cafe any fubfc
quefit examination by the Heal h Officer or Con
sulting Physician, agreeably to the diredlians of
thi» aSt, the mailer or captain (Hall expole or caule
to be exposed to the search of the Relident Physi
cian.or of the Health Officer and Confuting Phyfi
ciaft (as the cafe may be) each and every part of the
ship or vefTel, and fhail present to his view eacb
and every person or persons on board thereof, and
and shall also true and fatisfa-Sory answers make
to all Inch questions *9 the Resident Physician, &c.
at the time of examination fliall alk relative to the
health of any port or place from which the (hip or
veflel failed, or has since touched at—the number
.of persons on board when the (hip or veflel entered
on her voyage—the number of persons that have,
flnce been landed or taken 011 board, aod whc»
and whererefpeitively—what persons on board—■
f they have been during the voyage, or (hall, at
the time of examination, be infe&ed with any pes
tilential or contagious disease—and what is tjie pre
sent (late and condition of the persons on board
with rcfpcdl to their health or diseases. AnS if
any mailer or captain fliall refufe to expose as afore
aid, to the search oi any of the officers aforefaid.
A if he (hall ismCal any ftci perfon t or in any ether man
ner deceive- the proper effieers aforefaid in his anfaverr,
uch captain or master, for every such offence, shall
forfeit and pay the sum of five evndub dol
-IA«S.
Sect. 8. And if any person or persons whatso
ever (the Resident Physician, &e, excepted) (hall
go on board any veflel, before the mailer thereof
has received a certificate of health in the manner
directed, every person so offending, fliall pay the
Bm of ONE HVND&ED DOLLARS.
IT being absolutely necessary that the foregoing
fe&ionif fiiould be pundually complied with, the'
fubferiber, m compliance with his duty, must cx
a rigoroes observance of the lame, or else be
uud«r the neceflity of puttiag the laws in force.
Wm. ALLEN, Health Officer ef tht
I'ai tft Philadelphia.
July 14. <3 w
XIIThe ruling passions.
A POEM,
" WHILE tlitls JJf ehequer'd life our motley lay,
Hiis fkeuh'a a various, thodgrh a crude surrey,
Say, (hall Columbia's Tons the theme prolong ?
Their " RuliMcJ Passion*' claims cur nobhft song.
Theifs is the pride, bec|Ueath'd by gldfious fires,
To guard their fares, and prote& their first
To rear a rate enlightened, braVe and free,
Heir? of the foil and tenants of the lea ;
vVhofe breads the Union ftiield—-its lawsrevcrcj
As (iountry focred, afid as freedom dear.
Long as our hardy yeomanry command
the rich fK-ftmple of their native land j
While mid the labors of the ripening plain.
They form the phalanx, atld the Cetitfer train ;
While, in our martial school, a-e chieftenroU'd,
As Lincoln prudent, and as Putnam IWd,
Wh ; !e, Catilin* expeli'd,our senate priic
Hearts, ju(l as Russeli's—heads, as BowbwiN's,
Wif ;
Willie guides our realm a patriot SAeE.who firft,
"Whert power's Qohatio o'er our nation burst,
Unaw'd.likc Pliny,faw the flame aspire,
And cities fink in cataracts of fire ;
Undaunted hrard the ro king of the spheres,
While all Vrslvius thundered in his ears i
fcjo longet dread Coh)mbia's gallant hoall.
The fit rce invader, lowering on their coast ;
Nor wile, of traitors, nrtr corruptions power ;
Kor Blount's confrvracy,norßANt>OLPH's"j&!«- "
Of in Oorgon'.s hall, from Anarch's tub,
What rhetoric grae'd the oreie« ot the Club !
Eu• an injur'd wilVr grown.
Taught dear eipericn e, by the wrongs they've
known,
Thisitmi uhol I—Whichmu b fine fpoutiri<r
tix-ctujivc Patriots ire con ctu/ive Ktt\v s."
duty on carriages/
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT agreeably to an aft of Congrfs of the
United States of America, parted at Phila
delphia, tfee 28th day of May,
ties on t'arriage , for the convey ince of persons,
which shall be kept by oi" for any person, fior his
or her own use, or to let cut to hire, or for the
conveyance of paifergers, the fever?l duties ami
*ates following, to wit
toi and upon every Coach, IJ dolt.
upon every CI ariot, I» dots. 1
upon every Poll Chariot, II dels.
, upon every Pofl Chaise, 11 dols.
upon every Phaeton, with or without (op,
9 dols.
*pon every Coachee, 9 dols.
upon other Carriage®, having pannel Work
above, with blinds, glafTes or curtains,
9 dols.
upon fnur wheeled Carriages, havjtig fra-
med pods and topi with steel springs, 6
dols.
■pen (jour wheeled Carriages with wosd
en,nriron fpririfsor jacks, 3 dols.
tipoft Curricles with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chaises with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols.
»pon other two wheel topcarriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carriages, with Heel or
iron fpringa, 3 dols.
For and upon all other two wheel carriages, l
upon tvery four wheeled carriage, hiving
framed pods and tops, and resting up
on wooden fpart, 1 dols.
The Collector of the Revenue for the firft Stir
vey of the DiUridt: of Pennsylvania, will attend
daily, until the 3fthday of September n'lt, for
the purpose of receiving the duties 011 Carriages, at
Germantown ; at the house of Daniel St. Clair,Eft),
in the County of Montgomery; and at thehoufe
of James Chapman, Esq. in the County of Bucks ;
of which all person* pofltfTed ol such Carriages are
dcfirco to take notice.
Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dis
tilled spirituous liquor«, fhat licences will be grant
ed to them ; one licence for carrying on the busi
ness of retailing of Wines, in a less quantity, or
in less quantities than thirty gajlons—and one li
cence for carrying on the business of retailing Spi
rituous liquors in Ufs quantities than ao gallons, at
the fame time and at the fame places, by the offic
ers legally authorised to grant such licetices.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpe<3or of the Revenee of the firft fut
vey of the Diftriit of Pennsylvania.
Office of Infpedion at 7
Cermantow. nth Sept. 17>7. J
Bank of North America,
September Sth, 1797.
Monday n'lt the No iee« for al l Nntes or
Bills payable at thisß^nk,which fall dueonthat
and the enfuiMg 6 will be served on the Pay
ers: And the like Notices on evety Monday, till
the further ordersof the Oiredort.—Perfons wish
Ingto deposit Nates or Bills for Collection, which
are to fall due within the week, must themselves
undertake to five notice *n the Payi r« dtf
TO BE SOLD VERT CHEAP !
A Light W AGGGN almost new, with a frame—
and a pair of harmefs (English collars) has never
been used—price 90 Dolls.
A Horse j6 hands high, seven years old—and a
■ew chair, with a fallirg top and harness— 310.
Enquire No. 3JI, Markct-flreet.
August 14. rfiw
Red Port Wine.
Just arrived, by the brig Iris, eapt P.hodes, from
Oporto,
Red Port Wine in pipes,hhds. and quarter safes
to ewt. Cork, for sale by
Philips, Cramond, & Co.
J«'r "■ . ■$
" TO BJE SOLD,
And immediate bojfejfwn given,
A Convenient well finilhed Brick Tenement,
with a cook house and other out houses, situ- '
ated in a pleasant part of the borough of Wilming
ton, in the Sc»te of Delaware—The lot of ground
has forty feet front on West-street, and extend>
through the square to Pasture-street, on which is
crsileJ a (lable and carriage honfe.
ALLEN M'LANE.
Wilmington, Aug. 10.
Injur ance Company of North America.
THE Stockholders in this company are here-'
by informed, t>\at, pursuant to the fifth t'
elaufe of their Charter, and at the request of a
*' Number of Stockholders, who, together, are
proprietors of Six Thousand Shares, and up
wares," a general meeting of the Stockholders
will be helfi at the Company's Office, on Mon
day the ajth day of September next, at 11
o'clock, A. M, for the purpose of filling up a
vacancy in their Direction ; and taking into
tonfideration such Regulations or Bye La'» s as
may be presented in conformity with ijie Char
ter of Incorporation.
EBEN. HAZARD, SeSry.
July 20. w&ftSis
The Partnerlln'p,
UNDER the firm of FREEMAN IS 1 Company,
is dissolved hy mutual corfent.' All geffons
having any demands against thefaid House are de
sired to render the fame to T. B. Freeihsn ; and
those indebted to ihe House are deSred to makfj ay
xnent to him —By whom business will in future be
tarried on,at his Store, No. jp,South Front-ftitcs
Auafi 1' ,
%\)e<o2(settc.
TUESDAY EVENING, Sfptemijfr i».
From tht ttF.IV-rORK GAZETTE, Ufc.
There feetns to eiift a degrading opinion among
foihe of our American patriots .-—that •ve
ry man in this country hiuft be attached either
to France of England. The real partizans of Bri
tish ascendancy, and the American fans culottes,
both entertain this ridiculous sentiment, at leal)
in appearahte, and make it the engine for accom
plilhing their refpeSlive views. The real fait
however, is, that there are THREE parties in the
United States—one h mdly devoted to Great Bri
tain—anotherroFfarice—each very cordially-detefts
the other) and vifbes them to the devil. But,
there is a third class, c jnfiOing of principled Ame
ricans ; who contended for our glorious indep ,n
( <Jence ; factificed their health, ease and property in
i's defence ; and who, reje<9ing with conteaipt the
idea of partial attachments fa any nation, crtlu
lively, bellow all their regard upon that dear coun
tryi for ths def.nce of whi-h they so no ly fought
and fuffcred. Thfee are our true patriots, upon
whom dependance can be placed in the trying h»ur
of danger—and not the vagaVonds who fly frorti
perfection for villainies in their native land, and
here enter as hirelings, into the service of those
who 'iaringly advocate the robbery and oppression
exercised hy Great Britain and France upon our
d«fencelefi trade.
A filly paragraph in Grsenleaf's paper, it writ
ten wholly under the impreflion that the people of
this country are all either partisans of the Britilh
or French. The ■ author mull he some foreigner
■ recently imported, who knows nothing of the dis
position of our genuine citizens, and who for the
fake of dabbjinj among the dirty calumnatorsof
American merit throws out a firing of political ab
furditiesta exhibit hiina ive ignorance of the coun
try which has admitted him. Th« paragraph is so
donfiru"d as to induce a belief that the writer is a
Irienii to America- but the cloven foot is obvious
from the partiality he shews to one fct of our ene
mies, while he i itterly declaims agtinft the other.
Of all such—os theabufersof our ejcellent pub
lie officers, and defamcrs of tried merit, we fhouM
beware—and never admit what they aflcrt, until
it is proved to a demonftration—for, a fellow who
will profiittlte himfelf for money to advocate any
cause without regard to principle, is a bad member
of fociey—ai.d like all Liars, he (hould be fuf
re*2ed if even by ehancf he DF.VIATES into
TRUTH.
The following. <tve Lrtieve, is tit paragraph to llb'ub
the above tvritcr bsu refertnte.
The ABI'SF. wMch is continually poured forth
from certain prefiVi in the United States against the
French people noil mvact every candid obfsrver
that a fa&ion exists in this country ini ical to our
confiitution and to the eenuine rights of the peo
ple. We fometimcs fee lengthy paragraphs of ca
lumny, extract of. letters from London charging
the French with setting fire o our ci'iesand towns,
answers from the Spanili miniiVer to the French
overnment >n the defeat of the Spanish fleet,
and a number of kther publications, which, too c
vidcntly, bear the marks of fallhoad and decep
tion. When recourse is had to such vile means to
Irjarr the filler republic, we mud naturally sup
pose. that the authors are inimical to the princi
ples of iberty and are artfully endeavoring to wi
den the breach between the citizens of the two
countries. I.et the republicans ps the United States
be attentive to the proceedings of a Britiffi party
among u», who arc driving, by every fubterfuge
which resentment canVKSate, to sap tW founda
tion of our liberties, and once more bring us under
the dominion of our former tyrants.
MEstas. m'lkan & LAHC.
Jleady reader ofyourpaperthis morning got hold
of the urora ofThurfday lajl, -wherein heJinds
the following paragraph, -which, with the re
marks subjoined, I would thank you to publijh.
' j! *r4l ftDEHALUT.
The Gazettes of the faction are indefati
gable in their endeavors to render the French
and the French revolution odioiu here. For
this purpose they have plundered the whole
Billingfgatc vocabulary for epithets to lavish
oil them, and have ransacked every rancor
oui monarchical account of the revolution
for distorted instances of barbarity commit
ted during the revolutionary fever. These
they are every day retailing as true pi&ures
of the scenes exhibited on the theatre of
France during that period. The friends of
humanity and republicanism weep over the
few 'excefles of which some .individuals in
France, taking advantage of the troubled
moments of a revolutioh, have been guilty ;
but these friends of order feaft on them in
the Irue spirit of canibalifm, a spirit so con
genial with their favoritefyftem—Monarchy.
REMARKS.
On the above paragraph a correspondent
remarks that the Aurora, that wretched
fink of scurrility, personality and defama
tion, after some little repose from its dirty
labors, has resumed its wonted style. The
friends of decency, order and virtue will
however, not be deterred from exposing the
villainies of our domestic Jacobins, or repro
bating the piratical measures of foreign ene
mies, whether British or French. The Au
rora, and some other gafceites of a similar
completion, have incessantly trumpeted the
fouleft charges against the friends of Ame
rica labored with a zeal truly merce
•nary to palliate the enormities of rascals
who are censured even in France—Why is
this done ? It is an evident proof that we
have a faftion among us, which detefl every
thing virtuous and good, and love whatev
er is politically or morally bad !—Such a
faction defervr discountenance, and it is a
truth very pleasing to the friends of order,
that it is now rapidly declining in credit—
In refpeftability it has always been deficient.
■The true spirit of patriotism is exhibited by
an attachment to our countiy, and enmity
to her foes of whatever nation they may be—
but he who attaches himfelf to one foreign
nation exclusively, and not only reprobates
every other,'but his own too, when the fa
vorite foreign power thinks proper to in
jure her, is a detestable character, and me
rits banishment—Such is Bache, and some
others that could be named—Men who to
elevate the nation they worlhip, would not
scruple to facrifice the interests, and pros
trate the' political independence of the li
nked States at its feet. In France, the at
trocities of the jacobin faftion are freely and
openly exposed, and its abettors held up to
public execration for having deluged the
country in blood. The colonial agents are
re-called for having eflablifhed the reign of
terror, and milder charafters sent to replace
them. Notwithftandiag these evidences of
j a change f or tiie better in France, our ja
cobins are (till favorable to the ancient ex
ploded system bf terror, arid cannot with
out the keenest Feelings fee ill the Ame
rican gazettes a republication of what is dai
ly printed in France and read with avidity a
gainst the murderous fattellitesof Robespierre.
The Valuable writer who has exposed the
crimes of the Sanguinary Robefperian fac
tion, ha 3 ira-.uortalized his name—and the
translator wha gives the American reader
an opportunity of becoming acquainted
with the fafts, and whose personal know
ledge of many incidents which occurred in
France, enables him to speak positively,
deserves the thanks of America, as well
for his auxiliary labours in making the
tranflatiohs, as for the ; judicious remarks
with which he accompanies them. Baclic
talks like a fool when he fays the favorite
System of the American seder lifts is mo
narchy—-They contended against a monarch
seven years, and after liberating their coun
try, eflablifhed a free government op the
purest republican principles. This is the
system they adore, and to this system they
cling. They are sure that our present form
of government is the bed ever devised by
the understanding, or conceived by the wit
of man. It is the result of matnre delibe
ration and great intelle&ual labour, research
and comparison. Every intelligent Ameri
can is confident it is infinitely preferable to
either the British or French, and every
patriot American will support it against the
hireling efforts of foreign intermrdlers aim
ing to subvert it, and assimilate it to their
own, in order to get us the more completely
under their influence. For this base pur
pofc have such rascals been put in pay as
the writer of the history of the United
States, and the most unprincipled fellows
inftigatedtofet up presses, which, disclaim
ing the truly estimable character of imparti
ality, have been exclujively devoted to the
filth of a faftion. From such Sources have
proceeded the calumnious publications a
gainst Wafrington, Adams, Hamilton, and
the whole catalogue of our revolutionary
worthies—men to whom we are deeply in
debted, andto whom this country will feel
its obligations while freedom exists among
us, or one man attached to the genuine
principles of repuolicanifm can be found,
either in tK or any other country on earth. '■
From the ORIENTAL TR UMPET.
Mr. Rand,
" A true patriot" on Wednesday last hav
ing announced, by found of Trumpet, his
fafe return from an European expedition ;
permit an inhabitant of Portland, in behalf
of his fellow citizens, to congratulate him
upon his happy arrival, and to express a
most feeling concern at the " furpr'tzing and
Jhocting" revolution in political Sentiments,
which he observes to have taken place in
this country. As the refpeflability and
importance of a nation, depend in a high
degree upon the wealth and abilities of its
citizens, no Sacrifice can be esteemed too
great, to indcc.gentlemen of this descripti
on, to honour our country with their resi
dence. To promote this desirable objeft, a
Priejlley was affectionately received among
us ; who is induftrinus in propagating reli
gious infidelity ; and a Gallatin was admit
ted into the bosom of our national legifla
jure, eagw on every occasion, to excite in
the breasts of our fellow-citizens a Spirit of
discontent and inSurreftion. In order to
continue th's jujl and salutary policy, dnd to
induce a felf-created patriot to enrol himfelf
among those exotie worthies, I would sug
gest to my fellow-citizens, the propriety of
renouncing their correft, independent, and
well-founded political sentiments and opini
ons ; by which means America will have the
honor at lead to boafl of " A True Patri
ot." But, fellow citizens, before you thus
make an offering upon the altar of infamy,'
to " A True Patriot," or to France or to
any other nation, of all' that is praile-wor
thy and excellent, I earnestly entreat you
to consider the equivalent for this invaluable
facrifice.
The above was intended as an introdufti
on to the anatomy of " A True Patriot
But the Subjeft, upon infpeftion, not ap
pearing ripe for dilTeftion, having for some
time dieted upon soup maigrt and frogs, I
Shall delay the operation, until by a residence
in our country, it shall acquire a body and
reSpeftability.
AN AMERICAN.
INDIA.
From the Madias Coviier.
Mr. Editor,
The enclosed account of the people who
live on the mountains that form the boun
dary of the Circars, having been commu
nicated to me by a friend, you will oblige
me by inserting it in your weekly paper,
in hopes of inducing gentlemen farther to
investigate So interesting a Subjeft, as there
cannot be a doubt that Similar public ad
vantages may be made to reSult from an
attention to such people here, as have nriSen
from the philanthropy of Cleveland iu Ben
gal.
I am, Sir,
Your very obedient servant,
JAS. ANDERSON.
Fort St. George, 1
May \<)th, 1795- J
THE range of mountains inland of the
five northern Circars, is inhabited by a class
of men who differ from the natives in the
circumjacent low country, in their appear
ance, religion, manners, and language.
This class of men, generally denominated
Conds, or hill people, is branched out into
fix tribes, named the Condowar, Lowrawar,
Condulwar, Contulwar, Pudmawar, and
Budcondawar. All their Six tribes, or fa
miliea, are to be found on the hills inland of
Vizagapatnam and Poody, but only the
two firit on the Barampore hills. They
all have nearly the fame language and cuS
toms, and live Solely on the Summit and
Sides of the mountains, from which they
come down to the villages below, on the
: Shandy, or weekly market days, bringing j
Small grain, dye-ftufft, and other articles,
which they exchange for eoarfe cloth, cut
lery, &c.
The Conds are Squat and ttiitScular,. their
colour is dark, their features very harfti, and
their language guttural. They go entirely
naked excepting a bit of cloth about their
loins. Their women Sometimes cover their
breasts as well as their loins, and a Single
piece of eoarfe cloth fuffices for both pur
poSes.
I They are unacquainted with the uSe of
■ letters, and no Bramins frecjuent or dwell
i with them. They are extremely fuper-fliti
ouß, and have among them priests and priest
esses, who are a fort of conjurors. They
call the former Punnoo and the latter Dean
nee. They perform none of the ablutions
fp common to the other oriental casts. In
point of manners they are almofl. as rude
and wild as elk and bear, their fellow inha
bitants of the hills.
Every village clefts a head man, who ad
justs all matter of dispute among his consti
tuents, wha are in a perfeft equality.
They acknowledge .Scarcely any obedience
to the Zemindars of the low country, who
think it their interest to cajole the head men
to visit them, on which otcafions they give
them trifling preSents and abundance S
pariah arrack, of which liquor, and of
buffalo flefh, the Conds are escefiively fond.
They are in general a simple, and very
inoffenfive race, but have ideas ofboth pro
perty and independence. They will not al
low the trees growing on their hills to be
cut down without their Sanction, both
which and theiraffilance to drag and roll
the felled wood, are readily purchafcd by a
very small sum.
When prevailed on by insurgent zemin
dars to take a part in their quarrels, tht*jjare
a fnifchievous enemy, as they Sally from
the hills during the night, into the plains be
low, fire the villages, and destroy jr carry
off the grain and cattle. All pursuits of
tnem among the hills is fruitleSs, as they as
cend the heights with amazing speed from
their perfeft knowledge of the declivitiesand
ascents, and can without rifle to themfelve*
either elude or assail their pursuers. Every
Cond is arfnecfr with a hooked knife,
with with he cuts down bamboos and trees,
or behAds the unhappy captive. They use
flings, and bows and arrows, and where the
situation is Savoutable, they have large
stones ready placed to roll down on their as
sailants.
TheSe notices were afforded by a Jungum
(a religious mendicant,) of Barampore. His
information was taken down in Persian by a
moonfhee, from whose manuscript the above
is translated.
POLITICAL REFLECTIONS.
The governor and the governed, whatever
be the form of government proposed, are
men partaking of the interests and passions of
men. Let us then take the feelings of pri
vate, interest, and the passions of men into
our estimate of what government is best for
them ; and let us too consider those interests
and passions as cxiftent under the aftual cir
cumstances of the times.
The question then is, not what govern
ment is best for men in a state of great pu
rity of manners, Simplicity of knowledge,
general competency to all, without riches
to any, and contentment in private life,
keeping down generally the ambitioaof pub
lic life.
We must take men as they are, we must
not take them as the poets describe Shepherds
of Arcadia, and those of the golden age.
We must take men who follow trade and
commerce, beeaufe trade and commerce
bring money ; and, who Seek money, be
cauSe money gratifies their lusts and appe
tites.
We must take men who Seek power, be
eaufe power not only may reach wealth by
(horter strides, but moreover gratify vanity
and other passions extraneous to those merely
sensual. I
We must take men, who, in all claffcs of
life, reach as high towards the enjoyments
which power or wealth may give, as their
means will afford : and who, if too low' to
reach at all, in their envy and discontent
give proof of what they seek, and what
they would do if they could. In short, we
must take men for the most part, and in their
general community, who abuse, or are rea
dy to abuse both power and wealth.
The love of power and of wealth are of so
quick growth, and are so fatal to any insti
tution of government which is not framed
under consideration of their influence that no
democracy, or republic leaning to a demo
cracy, ever lasted an entire century. It be
came an aristocracy, or it submitted to the
usurpation of an individual; and in its latter
years of duration as a republic was convulsed
and diftrafted by these jarring influences,
and at all times was a scene of disquiet in it
falf, and of unhappinefs. to mankind.
Generally a democratic people on their
ou»fet of republican establishment have been
ruinous to the quiet and happiness of all
people near them ; and afterwards have left
as great unhappinefs from commotions a
mong them/elves, as heretofore they brought
on others by their wars and disposition to
contest. Priftina mala poftquam foris"deer
ant, doini qucerere, is by Livy applied to
Rome. •*"
The tendency of tl»e passions and interests
of men in such governments ever takes its
direftion to the attainment or support of
the executive department. It is the struggle
for executive power on which the -whole turns.
It is a question truly of great concern
whether executive authority in government
canbefoplacedand guarded as to be without,
and beyond the reach of those passions and
influences which tend to eorrupt the pec-ple
and destroy the state, and yet be within the
reach of controul and restrained from all ex
ertion to the prejudice of the liberties and
rights of the people.
The operation of struggles for the exe
cutive power in Smaller commonwealths, and
republics in general, is equally deftruftive to
\ domejl'tc happinejs, and to political injlitutitjn.
| Let usTuppofe a competition of iifcen&mt
. characters. There ever have been, for the
j most part, and always will be, able and "en
j terprifing men flruggling together for as.
ccndemy. These buly and ambitidua men
are seldom so virtuous as to be nice about
the means, so that they attain their ends,
Human ingenuity will soon be exercised hnd
well practised in all the adls to gain or to
cheat the people, to reduce, to corrupt, or
to deceive J whilst the animosity of contend
ing parties, permits not either to fee that
in the end the people are merely cavilling
for who shall eftablirti despotism in the per
son of their own chuling ; of perhaps two
or three parties find it necefiary to join their
forces ; and the result * the worst of all
governments an hateful aristocracy.
During these struggles no end bf good
government is answered. There is'no"peace,
there is no private happiness, no security of
per/on, no security a! property ; there is little
too of lilerty as applied to the individual sta
tion. The majority in a democratic assem
bly.ever have tyrannized over the minority ;
the general pi&ure of a democracy is of a
party conquering, and of a party subdued ;
of a party oppressing, and a party fuffering ;
an alternate abuse of power, and vicissitude
of murders, exi e and conjfcations.
Thus all democratic republics havefallen and
■willfall, and be of (hoi t duration, from the
impracticability of so ordaining the execu
tive power, as not to be the oljeiJ of undue
praftices, and not to be the means of undue
influence ; the one tending to corrupt, and
the other to overturn the political institution.
In such a republic, constant struggles and
animosities, and a constant mfecUrity of
property and unfafety of person, chafe all
djmejlic happiness to a distance ; and what
eompenfation have the republican people for
this loss ?
I have /hewn the mifchiefs which the
ftiuggles for executive power occasion in a
republican government, and remarked the
successive fa ft ions and disturbances, destroy
ing all domestic security of individuals, and
■ all peace and happiness in the community.'
I have {hewn that these ftruggle3 in the
end go to destroy the republic itfelf, and con
firm one man, or one set of then, in "power and
| tyranny.
[ The following Relation of the Majfatre of
the Inhabitants of an American town by a
body of French troops, and their Indian
auxiliaries, is extraßed from " the hijlory
of the Five Indian Nations" by Cadwalla
der Col den.
1 he Count De Frontenac being defiraiis
to raffe the drooping spirits of the French
in Cmada, by keeping them in aftion, and
engaging the most daring of them, in enter
prizes that might give courage to the reft,
had sent out three parties against the Eng
lish colonies, in hopes thereby to lesson the
confidence which the Five Nations had in
the English assistance, now that England
had declared war against France. The par- *
ty sent to New-York was commanded by
Monfr. Dc Herville, and was ordered to at
tempt the surprising of Scheneftady, the
nearest village to the Mohawks : It consisted
of 150 French Bufh-lopers or Indian trad-rs,
and of as many Indians, the most of them
French converts from the Mohawks, com
monly called the Praying Indians, fettled at~
a place near Montreal, [called Cahnuaga.
They were well acquainted with all that
part of the country round Scheneftady ;
and came in fight of the place the Bth of
February 1689-90.
The people of Schene£tady were at that
time in the greatest security, notwithstand
ing that they had information from the In
dians, of a party of French, and French In
dians being upon their march that way.
They did not think it prafticable, in ihat
season of the year, while it was extremely
cold, and the whole country covered with
fuow. Indeed Europeans will hardly thrnk
it pofiible, that men could make such a
march through the wildernefsin the severest
frofts, without any covering from the hea
vens, or any provision, except what they
carried on their backs.
Tho* the people of Schenefkady were in
formed in the evening before the place was
surprised, that several fculking Ihdians were
seen near the place, they concluded, that
they could be only some of the neighboring
IndianS ; and as they had no officer of anv
esteem among them,, not a single man could
be persuaded to wat«h in such severe weather,
though, as the French owned afterwards, if
they had found the least guard or watch,
they would not hpve attempted the place,
but have surrendered themselves p.rifoners :
They were so exceedingly distressed with
the length of their march, and with cold
and hunger, but finding the place in fatal
security, they marched into the heart of the
village, without ■ being discovered by any
one person ; then they raised their war shout,
entered the hordes, murdered every perfort
they met, men, women and children, naked
and in cold blood ; and at the fame time
set fire to the houses. A very few efeaped,
by running out naked into the woods in this
terrible weather : And several hid themselves
till the firft fury of tltc attack was over;
but these were soon driven from their lurk
ing places by the fire, and were all made
prisoners.
The French marched back, without reap
ing any visible advantage from barbaroti*
enterprise, betides the murdering fixty-threc
innocent perfans in cold blood, and carrying
twenty-feveri of them away prisoners.
WALPOLE, ( N. H.) September 4.
To triumph over thefallen Jacobins wquU
appear inhuman. To express a hope that
they have fallen " like Lucifer, never to
rife again," though it might evince a love
of order, a love of peace, is, we presume,
at present fcarccly neccflary. Perplexed,;«
these demo-patriots now are, with the me.
mory of M'Lean, the treafou of Bloupt, and
the difgraee of Monroe, their ardpr to brood
mifchief must be not a littk damped.w »w»w -J-—*., r* • <Y-v~
.By this day's Ma'l. ' j
NEW-YORIC, September 11. j
~ . C
Pojeript so the Daily Gazette. v
Yesterday morning arrived here his Bri
tannic Mnjefty's Packet Harlequin, com-
inanded by captain Gray—She failed from
Falmouth on the 25 th of July, but we have
been able to obtain papers no later than the ,
17th ; under which date we find the follow-
ing articles, the only ones of aay import, f
\Ve are told there are papers to the 22d—if j.
so, we probably (hall have it in our power to
give their details to-morrow.
LONDON, July 17. 2
NEGOCIATION AT LISLE. t
Until some more precise and definitive an
swer (hall Jsave arrived from Lisle, and we are ' t
award that it is not easy to speculate upon ; y
the event of negpciations ; but, as we have
taken peculiar pains to inform ourfelyes up- ;
on this fubjeft, and as we have means of ac
quiring intelligence-upon it, it may be per- t
mitted to us to inake /some remarks upon c
those circutn/cances which have hitherto oc
curred in the negociation. j
It reported at Lisle, and we have re
ceived this report from authority which we ; j
cannot doubt, that the restitution of the f
{hips taken at Toulon, or an equivalent for
them, is considered by the French as a. fine
qua w,n of the treaty.
Wc are not accurately informed as to the
condition in which these (hips were taken, j.
tut we recollect that on certain terms they
■were to be delivered up. to the French na- f
tion at the peace. Now we cannot think j
that, whether the stipulation goes to the ]
restitution of these (hips upon peace being j
made with the direftory, or with any other j
supposed government in France, it can be an (
obstacle to the restoration of these (hips, if j
such be considered as a material point by the ,
French goveri/ment, and if, in confcqucnce |
of acceding to it, we can get any thing that j
is ©f importance to ourselves. The (hips .
taken ct Toulqp are, in fail, of scarcely
any value to us.
The temper of the French commissioners
was very different from that of Monf. Dela- ,
croix ,upoa lord Malmefbury's firft embassy,
and instead of reserve and coldness, and a l
disposition to break off the negociation, they ,
(hewed the mofl decided inclination to «n- v ,
tertain and discuss every proposition which
could be offered on the part of Great-Britain.
Such is the substance of private informa- ,
tion which we have obtained from Lisle. ]
We do not hesitate to fay, that we think, as
far as we can judge from the conferences
lord Malmefbury has held with the French
commissioners, and the general disposition
of the people of France, that the prof eft
is FAVORABLE TO THE ATTAIN
MENT OF PEACE.
The extraordinary preparations for war
the part of the king of Pruflia, of which
we have received intelligence by the Brussels
papers, now appear to have been undertaken
with a view to hostilities with the court of
Vienna The important state paper, may
be considered as the prelude to the com
mencement of a war between Pruflia and
Austria.
king of Prussia's having opposed the
decree of the Aulic council against his usur
pation in Franconia, is confirmed by the mail,
which contains his proclamation on the fub
jeft. Every thing feemt to threaten a rup
ture between the two courts of Berlin and
Vienna.
The equipage of the archduke Charles 1
is arrived at Schwetzingen.
Prague is putting in a compleat state of
defence.
The troubles at Turin go on increasing,-
and 10,000 French troops have marched for
that capital.
A strong fleet has failed from Venice with
a large body of French and Venetian sailors
on board, "for the Venetian Islands in the
Levant.
Last evening arrived here the (hip Apol
lo, Loring, and the brig Hannah, the for
mer-in 61, and the latter in 50 days from
Hull; and the (hip Commercian, Parker,
in 42 days from St. Kitts. By way of N.
London, the (hip Augusta from Londonder
rp, with 180 passengers.
The (hip Edinburgh Packet Farquhar,
arrived at Leith 0.1 the 22d of June.
A London paper of the 19th July, "by
the brig from Hull, mentions the arrival or
difpatchei from the emperor—A cabinet
council was immediately called—and it was
conjeßured that they breathed a spirit of re
newal of hostilities.
Another paragraph mentions a Courier
from Lord Malmefbury, who it was said
brought dispatches of such a nature as to do
away the belief that a speedy termination of
war would take place, on account of the
exhorbitants demands of the French—These
however, are only editorial conje&uves.
From the Argvi.
The Roebuck, from Hamburgh, and the
Merchant, from London, arrived at this
port on Saturday, after long passages.
Our accounts, from both these ports, are
jater tjhan they bring.
Yesterday the British packet Harlequin,
Capt. Gray, arrived at this port from Fal
mouth and Halifax, with the july Mail.
The Harlequin failed- from Falmouth on
the 25th July, and brings London accounts
to the 23d, one day later than those via
Boston and Newport this day given verbally.
We bfft-e not been so fortunate as to get
papers by this vessel ; but it would seem,
that her accounts are of no great impor
tance. The negiciatkns for peace were go
ipg slowly on, bilt nothing transpired. Hope,
meet*fid hope, that {heet anchor of the foul,
was ft ill entertained, that the result of the
rWocintions * would be t LAcii* : but, the
IVrcr.ch commissioners, in tur.i, fen! couriers
at every proposition !
A London paper, however, publishes, as
leaking out, that Malmefbury had agreed o
to give up all his conquests from France, ti
including the Toulon (hips—that the French (
commiffionsr demanded all the Spanish con- g
qutfts fhou'id also be given up, but this was
wavefl, as to become a future fubjeft "of
negociation—that (he King of Pruflia having
fiezed upon Nuremburg, an imperial city, the
emperors of Russia and Germany had de
clared war against him ! ! !
Of all TOUGH STORIES circulated E
yesterday (and which will, doubtless, be ti
sent on post haste to Philadelphia, by some e<
busy letter writer) the following are worthy p
notingfi
That neyv wars had broken out between m
Austria and France—That Paul I, Enspe- w
rorofall the Ruffias, had marched 180,000 g
troops to the assistance of Austria—that the
negociation for peacs had broken off—that
the Spanish Court had offered Lord' St. ft
Vincent, alias Admiral Jervis, 20 millions 31
of dollars to be off, &c. &c. After which m
in came a hog to be shaved. ,
We (hall give Extrafts to-morrow, nor
tire our readers with the milliard of rumours
on this arrival. t\
The Coffec-Houfe report, of capt. N
Barney, falls to the ground. fii
Also arrived yesterday, the brig Hannah, ri
Robins, and (hip Apollo, Loring, both hi
from Hull. 1 P * d;
Captain Robins, on the 4th day of Au- m
gust, was boarded by the French privateer 01
Heureux, of Bourdeaux who overhauled his tli
papers and difraiffed him. This privateer
had captured a (hip from Africa for Liver
pool <jn the 26th July (whose crew they put
on board of an American brig bound to A m " m
fterdam, name unknown) and the brig f<
Plumper, Capt. Reid on the 2d Aliguft, v<
bound from Jamaica to London. Capt. m
Reid and a black man were put on board el
the Hannah. Sept. 2, lat. 38, long. 60, a
spoke (hip Hunter, of Wafliington, for Li- vv
verpool, 10 days out, and saw a fleet of a- tl
bout 40 fail of vessels, supposed the last Ja- vi
maica fleet. Sept. 8, lat. 39, 29, spoke tl
a fchr. from Nantucket fortheCape de Verd w
Islands, out 3- days. d
Capt. Reid, ofthe brig Plumper, who w
arrived in the Hannah, informs U6, that he jc
was one of the fleet that failed frono C'pe u
Antonio June 13, convoyed by the Mer- w
maid frigate (Commodore Newman) the tl
Canada, 74, and Resource frigate. Loft tl
the convoy in a fog, in lat. 42, 53, long. 1
jo, 25, and on the 2d Aug. lat. 5 1 - 4> "
long. 23, 28, was taken by said privateer, o
Capt. Reid, 3 day's before he was taken, in tl
lat. 47, 35, long. 36,. 96, spoke (hip Ran- r
ger, understood from Pifcatawa, for Liver
pool, 38 days out.
There were several thousands of troops at
Hnll; for what purpose no one knew, unless
tokeep the people inawe,whoknewnothing
of public measures, and dared not open
their mouths on political fubjefts
A few days before the Hannah failed, a
gentleman arrived from Dublin, who infor
med, that notwithstanding the immense bo
diet of troops in Ire'and, the spirit of infur- c
reftion was not in the least checked, and I
that the greatest distress was visible in every «
countenance.
DIED.
On Friday morning, after a long and pain- I
ful illness, in the thirty second year of her
age, Mrs. Frances HARisos-.eldeft daugh- ;
ter of George Duncan Ludlow, Esq. Chief \
Jufti'ce of the Province of New Brunfwick, ;
and wife to Richard Harifon, Attorney of
the United Spates for the New-York Dif
trift—Efteemed, admired, and beloved,
whilst living, for the most engaging manners,
amiable disposition, and exemplary conduft:
her los« is regretted by a circle of acquain
tances, numerous and refpeftable ; —but by
her Friends and Family (to whom (he was
endeared by the practice of every Virtue, and
the exertion of every tender Affeftion) it is
truly deplored. I
BALTIMORE, September 9.
INFORMATION to OLD PEOPLE,
How they may preserve the eye-fight, or re
cover it after it has failed.
This is to bie done while you wa(h, by
dipping your face in the water, opening
your eyes, and keeping them open under
water as long as you can hold your b'reath.
Do this three or four times fucceflively eve
ry morning. t
It will be expefted, no doubt, that I
should give an account how I came by tlv's ;
knowledge ;it was in this manner :—I !
knew, early in life, that wafliing with cold j
water was good against the tooth-ach, and :
I have long used that romedy with fucceft.
Some years ago I went out a long journey
towards the North, and among other incon
veniences, I fuffered the want of cold wa
ter to wa(h with according to my enftom ;
this brought on a violent tooth-ach ; 011 my
return I loft several teeth. I applied close
ly my former remedy, which at length took
away the tooth-ach * but was irot efficacious
enough to remove a pain in my gums, at
the roots of my upper teeth, and I expefted
to lose them all. A little better than a year
ago, a poor old man (whom I had long
1 known) begged of me a spot of land to cul
tivate : I gave it him within a quarter of
a mile of my house. Soon after, I difco£-
ered (by the thermpineter) that his spring
was cooler than mine, and I determined to
. wafli there. He fitted up a rough table at
his spring for my use, with a large pewter
bason, which he placed on it every mornings
i I go early to wa(h, and after wafliing I dip
1 my face under water and open my eyes,
keeping them so as long as I can hold my
t breath, three or four times fucceflively.
, If I recolleft well, it is auout a year
. lince I began to do this, and I am relieved,
. not only of the pain in the gums as I expeft
ed, but I have also recovered my fight,
, which I did not expeft. lam not far (hort
e of 70 years old, and I have used fpeftacles
e about five and twenty years,, but I have late
i ly layed'them aside, having now (thank
God) nooccafion for them.
As this may be ufeful to all pei sons at
one time or other, I wish it may be known Fr
to them, and deGre that benevolent printers
(feeing the utility of it) will be jjieafed to Jo!
give it a place airiong their publications. Ge
JAMES CALDER. El
Baltimore county, Sept. 7-
From the Telegraph. Ht
A CARD Ch
A Baltimorean presents his refpedlsto the Jol
Editors of the Federal Gazette, and informs Jol
them they are mistaken, or not well inform,-
ed, when they inform the public in their pa- W
per of yefterday,that the CopftclJition i s the
•firft frigate ever built at this port. Gentle- Da
men, it is well known, that during the war Pe
with England, the frigate Virginia, of 36 W
guus, was built at Fell's Point. S. B. L:
Died, early yesterday morning, after a Sai
short illness, the rev. Mr. John Floyd, about- Al
30 years of age, assistant priest to the Ro
man Catholic congregation in this city. Re
Ac
CHARLESTON August 29.
There has a&ually been a skirmish be
tween the American troops stationed at the
Natchez, and the Spaniards ; the Spaniards
fired firft, and it was returned by the Ame
ricans ; fevtral lives were loft : our infor
mation is, that the rupture was accommo-
dated, and that the present profpe&s are
more pacific. The Indians had been Urged In!
on likewise by the Spaniards, and one of
their chiefs had requested Spanish aid.
Mejfrs. Timothy & Mason,
It is with great pleasure that I withdraw
my name as candidate for a feat in cosgrefs
for Charleston dillridfc, wishing that the
votes for major Pinckney may be onani
mous, which, in my opinion, hia merit
claims from us. In doing this, it is from Pu
a thorough knowledge that my country
will receive more benefit from h;s services
than from mine ; and having no intirefted
views-os my own from the hrft, but purely To
the good of my country at heart ; it is
with pleasure I withdraw my name as candi
date for this diftrift. As to 'my good
wishes to my country, I trust that the ma
jor's heart and mine in that point beat in
uiiifon. I cannot do less than pay a tribute
which is j uttly due him ; he may reft allured
that I with pleasure give him my sincere
thanks for his past ffrvices to his country.
The facrifice he has made of his private
interest for the public good, claims on all
occafiofis our warmest gratitude ; as also for
the present, when, his private business must
receite an injury, though for our advantage.
I am, Gentlemen,
With due refpeft,
Yours with esteem,
ROBERT SIMONS.
State of South-Carolina.
By his Excellency Charles Pinckniy, governor
and commander in chief, in and ever the state f n
afnrcfaid.
A PROCLAMATION.
WHEP EAS 1 have been officially informed that
certain Notes of the Bank of the United States have
been counterfeited and are circulated in this state, rr
to the great lofs of many of iti inhabi- il
tarns—and the office of Discount and Deposit of the r j
said Bank in this city, having offered a reward of
On« Thtnifand Dollars for the discovery and con
vi&ion of thi offenders : 1 have therefore thought
fit to : flue thismv proclamation, hereby offering a S
FUU. and UNCONDITIONAL PARDON to
any of the accomplices concerned in the Counter- E
feiting or issuing of such notes, upon w.hofe infor
mation the principals or others may be convielcd
and brought to puniCiment. n
Given under my hand and ths seal of the state, h
in th« city of Charlcfton, this 14th day of
July, in'lie year <>f our Lord, 1796, and
in the I2d year ps the Independence of the
United States of America.
CH \RLES (L.M. S.) PINCKNEY. t
By the Governtr, 1
St*phe* .Ravi wsl, Scc'ry of ftste. v
%\)t ©ajcttc. ;
PHILADELPHIA, [
TUESDAY EVENING, September ii. t
ExtraS of a letter frotn Neku-'k ork, to'.lhe Edi- ,
tor, dated Sept. 11. l
" T have London advices to July 19th in ! 1
the On that day, the cabinet coun- 1 1
cil had determined not to accede to the French i
terms as peace, on account of their unreasonable t
demands. 1
" New and violent debates in the French i
Council of 500, on account of the popular 1
societies, which threaten tumult."
P. S. The Faftor is coming up from
I London with probably later advices.—She
' left London from 20th to 25th July, but ;
we are not certain as to which day— Her
passage is not known.
Extract of another letter, Sep' 11.
" The Kemp, arrived at the I
Hook last evjSig. Her passage said to be
33 da y s " J
MR. rEN NO,
i Accusations of inhumanity ought not i
lightly to be given into—much less inserted t
I in a newspaper, until the supposed fa&s on 1
r which they are grounded, are well fubflan- 1
f tiated.
; T i e writer of the paragraph in this I
f morning's Aurora, who cpmplains that no 1
- one amongst the crowd surrounding the 1
r unfortunate man who dropped down-dead 1
j in Arch-street, had the humanity to call in :
t medical afliftance, was mifinformed. Two
r physicians attended the unfortunate person :
f, fufficiently early to have aided him, if his
p condition had admitted of I am
, happy to have it in my power to wipe off
y this unmerited reproach. Yours, T.
r REMOVALS.
I, The Supervisor of th.e Revenue for the
:- Diftrift of Pennsylvania, has removed his
:, Office to German Town.
•t The " Office of Infpeaion" is removed
■s from No. 117, in Race Street, to German j
Town.
k The Marshal of the Pennfylvani.i Dlftrift 4
has removed his Office to German To*n.
CITY HOSPITAL REPORT, .
From the I i-tli to 12th Sept. in thetnorning. SI
Admitted, line* lait report,
Joseph Wood, corner of Love lane Frontflt.
George Corbett, Filbert, near Tenth street.
Elizabeth Adams, corner of Lombard and Si
Second Street.
Peter Smith, 107, Second below Queen ftt. Sc
Henry Snyder, 52 Swanfon street. SI
Christian Schutz, servant to John Sontag..
John D.'injify, United States Frigate. C
John Limlone, 116 Sonth street.
Eloped since last Report. i to
Wm. Morgan, admitted Bth inft. of
Died since last report.
Daniel Rourke, admitted 10th rnft. to
Peter Smith, 12 hours after admission. th
William Silby. admitted 10th inft.
Leonard Brown, 10th fr<
William Robertfon-, Bth
Sarah Black, C:
Abner Cartwright, fai
Remaining last Report , 5 2 q u
Admitted lince, 8 Pi
da
60
Discharged None
Eloped, 1
Ditd 7 rlv
Remain in Hospital, | ConvaUfcentyj j to
Interred in City Hospital burying ground
since last report : j by
From the city and suburbs 9 ! ca
From the city hospital 7 on
Total 16 ed
Five' of the sick are dangerous.
Stephen Girard,
(Signed) 'Caleb Lqwnes, H
John Connelly. he
Published by order of the Board,
JOHN MILLER, Jun. ha
Chaiimjm.
d«
Totals of burials for 48 hours, tiding Mon- in
day at noett.
Christ Church I Adult. la
St. Peter's 1 61
First Presbyterian 2 I Child. l a
Second Presbyterian I 1 a
Third Presbyterian I o 01
St. Mary's Church 40 p:
Trinity Church 10 ti
Free Quakers o 1 h
German Lutherans 10 ai
German Calvinifts 10 w
Baptists to d
Methodists 1 o
Jews 10 I
Potter's Field 13 t
City Hospital* 27 o a
Kenfiogtonf 43 p
Total 48 9 y
* T<wenty of these were from the city. c
-J- Five from Ctmplown—Two from Ken- ]
fington. ' f
A marine has beean buried from the ]
United States. Lieutenant M'Crf.a of she
mantles, and Mr. Lockwood, Master, are
ill with the sever—also, a number of ma
rines, and several of the labourers employed
upon her.
Died, in Walnut near Front-street, Mr.
Smith er.. Engraver.
Died, in Vermont, Thomas Chitten
den, EsQj. late Governor of the state.
Mr. Peter Scraveudike, whose death was
mentioned in yeftcrday's paper, is in good
health a few miles from the city.
burglary.
A robbery has been committed, some
time in the past week, upon the Wufe of
Mr. 'Jonathan Meredith, in Chefnut, bet
ween Third and Fourth Streets. By the
help of a ladder, the villains were enabled to
make their way into the second story, from
the yard back of the house : They appear,
from various circumstances, to have gone to
work with thjfc utmost deliberation, in rifling
the whole house, breaking locks and bolts
from the ift story to the 3d.
The above audacious atterhpt ought to
warn our too careless fellow-citizens not to
1 \ leave'houfes 111 such a situation as to tempt
- l the,enterprize of the lawless : for tho' the
h \ above house was secured as far as it had
t ever been, or could be deemed necessary, yet
numbers of houses may be found in <^rcum-
I stances rather inviting the attempt of the
r unprincipled robber.
d FIRE!
e Between two and three o'clock yesterday
t afternoon, the roof of the criminal prison
r was discovered to be on fire, but by the
timely and friendly afliftancc of the citizens,
as well as the prisoners, the fire was extin
e guifhed in a few minutes. It is supposed
e the fire communicated from the cook's house
chimney to the roof,; the damage is but
trifling. The fubferiber takes this oppor
tunity of tendering his fellow citizens thanks
t for their kind and friendly afliftancc in ex
i tinguifhing the fire above-mentioned, as wtll
II as their seasonable and friendly aid to pre
i- vent the prisoners from escaping ; at the
i fame time I cannot but do justice to my poor
s fellow creatures, who are confined under
omy care, fay, but their conduct on a
e larming occasion deserves to be gratefully re
-1 membered,as not one of them thqfliewedleaft
n : fignof anattcmpttoefcapc,but onthecontrary
o rendered me every sffiftance in their power
nt to extinguish the flames.
is PETER SMYTH, Jailor.
n —raßsE«
f GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
Pour ef Philadelphia.
Ie ARRiyF.D.
is Ship Harry, Ehrenftrom, Havanna
Brig Prince Frederick, GuifoHe, Ditto
:d Harriot, Topham, Curracoa
in j Fly, Rufitl, I.ifboUj last Madeira
Sch'r Orion, Prior, Aux Cayes
£t Sioop Sally, Bnfher, ,Gonaives
Polly, Knight,■ St. Jago de Cuba
At the Fort.
Ship Edward, Wickham, Madeira
Baltimore, September 9.
ARRIVED.
Ship Harriot & Eliza, Miles, Hull
Juftina, Lewis, Opoftd
Schr. Dolly ; Liverman, North Carolina
Sloop Greyhound, Gipfon, do.
Schooner Hope, Kean, 22 days from
Cape Nichola Mole.
Left there, fchrs. Elizabeth ancfTreaty,
to fail shortly for Baltimore ; Jerfeveratice,
of do. condemned.
Ship Juftina, Lewis, 53 days from Opor
to. Spolte the Dolly on her from
the Weft Indies to New-York.
Ship Harrriot & Eliza, Miles, 60 days
frori Hull.
Brig Adventure, Thornton, 25 days from
Cape Francois. The brig Chance, was to
fail in 2 days for this port.
Sloop Jane, Brown, 23 days from Jac
quemel. The brigs Caroline Wjlmans and
Philip, were to fail for BaltimoA; in ten
days.
Charleston, Augnft 26.
Capt. Tucker or the brig Harmony, ar
rived on Thursday, from Amsterdam, spoke
June 16, lat. 42, 20, ship Orlando, Laugh
ton, from New-York to Genoa, 30 days
out.
Long. 20, capt. Tucker, W33 boarded
by a French privateer who robbed him of a
cafe of Gin and the only two fowjs he had
on boartl.
The Hoop Laura on her paflage was board
ed by a French and plundered.
Augim 28.
Saturday arrived the (hip Pallas, S'caol,
Hamburgh, 80 dciys ; fchr, Betsey, M'I1«
henny, Wilmington.
Yesterday arrived the sloop Salem, Gra
ham, Norfolk, 10 dsys.
The fliip Hope, Stevens, from Bour
deaux, in distress, was coming up last even
ing.
Capt. Lowrey, who arrrived on FridaJ"
last from St. Crr.ix, informs, that on tha
6th inft. being then under the lee of the is
land of St. Thomas's, he was brought to by
a small French privateer, commanded by
one Leve an Irishman, belonging to some
part of Porto-Rico, who took air his poul
try, stores, vessel's papers, letters, &c. from
him, carried him amongst a parcel of rocks,
and after detaining him two days, during
which he gave him very disagreeable usage,
difmifled him.
Seven American velfels were fentinto the
Havannah in one day, by a French priva-,
teer, two of which belonged to Savannah,
and the number of Americans sent in there
prior to them, makes the total 30 fail.
The brig mentioned in our gazette of
yesterday, to have pasTed the bar on Sun
day, for Savannah, was the- Prudence, capt.
Dunn, 12 days from Philadelphia, and 5
from the Delaware capes.
Five Hundred Dollars Reward.
A ROTBERT!
THE fubferiber's dwel.ing hoiale, in Chefnut
ftreet, was broken open fbme time since Fri
day last, and plundered of property, the value o£
wh eh cannot as yet be ascertained. The robber?
gained admifiion by breaking ©pen a window fluit
ter in the fecepd story of the back part of the houfe v
and afterwards forced almost every lock therein. -
The above reward will be paid for the restoration
» of such property as they may have taken, or pro
portionally for any part thereof, and a profecutioa
of the person ©r p»rf®Rs cencerncd to convi&ion.
JONATHAN MEREDITH.
Sept 11. ' tf
. L O S T,
f the Paffyunk Road, between the Blue Rail
V-/ and the city, a Fowling Piece, with a brass
" bai rel and silver fif,ht; on the plate of the butt are
- the letters "Jamaica, 99" —and on the barrel
) n ear the lock " London" iind the Tower (lamp. 1
I Whoever will return the aid piece to Jtbit Bennard,
at the sign of the li'ue Ball on the PafTyunk Road,
' or the office of thi6 Gazette, ffiall receive a reward
3 of Four French Crowns,
? Tept. 11. *3t
s The Health-Office
} 18 removd to the City-Hall, and iskeptopeg
mglitand day, where persons having bufim fs may
D apply. Wm. ALLEN, Health-Officer,
t .sept. 4. dtf
e n or 1 e l.
J THE Office* of the Department of War are for
' the pr. sent remov»d near tp die Falls of the Scuylr
- kill, on the Ridje Rcaji.
e Septe»bor 4. dtf
Post Office, September sth, 1797.
(fj" The Post Office will fee removed t<*-
morrow at 3 o'clock, P. M. to Mr. Dun
y lap's Coach house, 12th ftreet,between Mar
n kit and Chefput street, where merchants and
e others will please to fend for their letters, a*
1, the letter carriers during the continuance of
1- the present prevailing iicknefs will not he
d sent out.
t Window Glass,
■- Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than any other in
5 the City—
OF KJRIOUS SIZES,
From 8 by 6 to 19 by 14,
By the single Box or Quantity, may be"had at the
S'ore of the Subfc;ibers, corner of Aieh ai)d Front
e ; Hreet.
ir James C. If Samuel W. Fijher.
r Philadelphia, J ne 9, 1737. »iwrowftf
> Just published,
ft And to be fold at the licokftores of H. W P.
y Kice, No. 50, Market-street IJ. Ortnrod,
>r No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet, and W? Ysung,
yorner of Chefnut and Second-streets,
An accurate System of Surveying}
IN WHICH IS CONTAINED,
I. Decimal fractions, in a plain, concise,
and easy manner.
a. Theextraflion ef the square root.
3. Plain trigonometry, refiangular and ob»
lique.
4. An exaft method to cast up the content!
ia ef lands.
t0 5. Field surveying.
I'lie whole being »«rfo rned without
° a ef scale and campsites, on a table of Ingarithn s.
ra fn which is given some account of the viriati it
e3 of the needle, aqd the causes of its attradlioii,
'ei By SAMUEL MOORK. "
ba / uguft 1. «wswFh'll DDLLJRS REIVJRIX
V) AN avray from, the subscriber, an indented
I'V Servant Oid, named Navct A ndf.ubon, a
• i.o\jt twenty years of age, fcort, thick let person,
With ftiort'black hair ; had on when lhe went away,
a darit calico gown, an old black silk cloak', and a
H-<ck fur hat. Whoever will ftcure said girl, and
give information thereof to the fublcriber, No. 1,
Gresnle-f alley,- or to the office of this Gaiette,
(hall receive the above reward.
All pei Jons are forbid harboring said girl, as
they will be dealt with as the law dire&s
MARY,"ANDERSON,
N. B. Said Girl is from Ireland, and has been if
this country Wit a lho« tithe ; lhe was ft rit to th®
xvcrk-hatife for, mifconduil, where (he was taken
6ok and rciiior. i] to the city-hospital, from which
place (>* mailt her escape.
Ayrnfi ,IQ. eon
To be fold at Public Vendue,
To the hijjheft bidder, at the house of Mr.
William Evans, the fieri of the Indian
Queen, in rhrcity of Baltimore, on the 15th
day of O<slober next, at 11 o'clock, A. M
About seven thousand acres of land,
the property of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
ly>Dg Ik tween Reifier's-town and Westminster,
commonly called Little- Winchester, (the turn
pike road'runs through a conliderable part of
thcl'e lands) the trait begiti3 about 17 miles
from Baltimore, within a few hundred yards
of said Keiller's-town, and extends to the dis
tance of abwut twenty three miles from Balti
morey and lies on the main" falls of Patapfico
river, from three to four miles thereon. Will
Le fold in traits or one hundred and fifty to
three hundred acre. There is a large propor
tion of meadow and wood land on each traiff,
some ofthein highly improved, with excellent
Suildings and fine grifs. <
AISO.
A trail; of seven hundred acres of
I aid, called driver Farms, withm live miles of
Bladenlhurg, efteemedtvery good for Grass.
yßichard Ponfonby,Of Ilfadenfburgh, will (hew
this land to any person inclined to purcha'fe.
also, v
A tract of land ©f about three hun
dred and th rty acres, within about two miles
and a half o the President's house in the Fcdff- 1
ral City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fine
profpefl, fron. which may be fcen the
city of W aldington, Bladenlburgh, Alexandria
and a part of George-town, and manv miles
down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard ronfou
by, of Bladenfburg, will also (hew this land.
A liberjl credit will be given for the greattft
part Of the purchase money. I'he terms, will
be made known on the day »f sale.
Mav 8 w
Just Received,
From Batavia (Via Providence)
a few lioxasof Spices, confining 0/
Nutmegs, Cloves and Mate
I or (ale by
WILLING* FRANCIS,
Penn. street.
sray 3® I dif
Davis's Law Book Store,
Wo. 3IQ, High-Street. •
GEORGE DAVIS,
BEING buffed for fom< time past in prepara
tions for removing into his prol'ent house, ha*
been under thcneceflity of poOpouing until this Jay
informing the gentlemen of the Bar generally thro'
the United Statei, that his spring importation of
law books is now arranged and ready for (ale, on
terms that l?e trulls will crttitlehim to the like pre
ffceeuce he has experienced for several years past.
Catalogues, combining the moftr varied collec
tion ever imported iato this country, are printed
'and will he delivered on application.
June a 7. aaw 6w
City Commijjiontrs' Office,
K June 11, 1797.
IN pttrfuance of an ordinance from tbq lelefl
andcommon councils, palled the aid day of
May lad, appointing the city cammilTioiiors,
and prescribing their duties, fe&ion 9th,
NOTICIi IS HEREBY GIVEN,
That the city is divided into five dillrifts,
each to be under the fuperintendance of one of
the city commiflicners, \> he is to be individually
reiponfihle for the cleaulirefs of the fame, and
are as follow.
DriftritSl No. I. From the south fide of Ce
dar-street, to the north fide of Spruce-flreet, üb
derthe fbperifitendenee of Nathan Boys.
1. From the north fide of Spruce-ttreef, to
the north fide of Walnut-street, under the super
intendence of Hugh Roberts.
* 3. From the north fide of Walnut to the south
fide of High-street, under the superintendence of
Joseph Claypoole.
4. From the north fide of High-street, to the
north fid.- of Miilbe'ry street, under the fuper
inttndrnceof William Moulder.
5. From the north fide of Mulberry street to
' the north fide t>f Vine-street, under the super
intendence of Nicholas Hicks.
The cleaningof High-street to be in common.
£5" A stated meeting of the city commilfion
ers is held at the Old Court House, in High
flreet, every Tuesday evening at 5 o'clock
July r 4- i eoim
Stands for Draymen, &c\
In pursuance of an Ordinance from theSeleft and
Common Counc Is,bearing date the nd day of
April, 1797, providing for the appointment of
City CommiJJioners, ''3 c. Seff. the fstb. •
'"I 'HE following places are fixed upon by'the
X said City Commissioners sot* Stands for
Draymen and their Horses., x
In Virle-ftreet, eastward of Front-flreet, on
both fides.
Safiafras,'High, Chefnut and Walnut-fttreets,
eastward of Front-street, on the no.-th fide only.
Mulherry-ftreet, south fide frem Front to
Third-street.
Front-ftrest, east fide from Vine-street to
ElrVith's alley.
Front-flreet, from opposite to Black Horse al
ley to Hamilton's flores, east fide.
Water-street, weft fide from the north end of
Stamper's or Moj|f's stores to Pine-street.
Penn-ltreet from Pine to Cedar-street, weft
fide.
Drawbridge, north fide, east of Front-flreet.
Spruce, Pine and South streets, call of Frost
street, south f'de.
Dock-ilreet, between Wajnut-ftreet and the j
Bag stone croffiugs, east fide, opposite George
Orkley's.
Second-street, between Saflifras and Vine .
ftrerts, weft fide. -
Fif'th-ftreet, east fide from Chefnut to Mul- 1
berry streets. (
Safiafras-itreet. from Tnird to Fourth-flreet,
east (itle.
No dray or horse to stand within ten feet of
any pump. I
srs/xns for hackney coaches.
Pine-street, north fide Fourth to Fifth c
streets. j
Fifth-ftrfet, between Chefnut and Walnut d
firests, weft. t
Branch-ftrect, north fidc, between Third and si
Fourth llrcets. f<
July 14. mwfcfim p
j A Literary Treat.
- 7 u fi puhlijhtd, bandforAily printed on writing
'» pnptr, price l dollar,
A new edition of that popular and entertaining
u z v/ork, untitled
''HE FORES'rERS, an American Tale ;
1, i a fequcl to the hirtory of John Bull, the Clo
f, thier—ln aferiesjf letters to a friond, with the ad
dition of two letters, alluding to recent political
s tranfailiont in America.
Thi follo wing extrail from the
lhews the principal chara<3er» that irs|itrodu;ed:
a John Bull, the Kingdom of.,ring!an™
a His Mother, the fcl urch 1 of England
n His Wife, the Parliament
h His Sifter Peg, the' Church of Seotland
Hii Brother Patritk. Ireland
• I.ewis, the Kingdom us France 1
~ His Miftrefi, the Old C^tiftitution
Hi» new Wife, the National \tcprefentation
l.ord Strut, the Kingdom of Spain
11 Nicholas Frog, the Dutch Republic
si \ The Franks, the French Republic
[ The Foresters, the United States of Amsrita
Robert Lumber, New-Himplhire
t John Codliue, Maffachuf;tts
Humphrey Plowfhaie, Conneiticut
' Roger Carrier, Rhode Island
Peter Bull Frog, New-York
3 Julius Csefar, New-Jersey
William Broadbrim, Pennsylvania
Caflima*.', Dela-wave
Walter Pipewood, Virginia
His Grandson, George Wafhinjjten
Peter Pitch, North Carolina
Charles Indigo, soutk Carolina
' 1 George Trully, Georgia
Greenwood, Vermont ,
, Hunter Longknife, Kentucky
t Black Cattle, Negro Slaves
Rats, Speculators r
Mother Carry's Chickens, Jacobins
p I his popular and entertaining satirical hiflo
ry of Amarica is attributed to the Rev. Dr Bel
kna». It hasa great (hare of originality and a
boMnds with genuine humour. It is continued
down to the present time, and charaAefifes thole
late political tranfadions whicji have caused so
much ureafmefs in America.
Sold by H. and P. RICE, Bookseller, No. 16,
, South Second Street, and No. 50, Marke* ftjeet.,
_ 1 June 16. \ §
~LAW BOOKS,
1 Latcft London and Dublin Editions.
; H. &P. RICE, Booksellers,
No. 16, South Second, and No. jo, Market street,
jLT AVE juil, received by the lite arrivals from
j i. Lone'.on and Dublin, theii ipring importa
tion, confiding of a variety of the latest and mod
approved 1 aw Books, which, added to those alrea
dy on hand, forms the moftextenfive colledtion ev
er offered for sale in this country. They thei efore
beg leave to n6ti<x, that from the nature of their
eonne&icnsin Duolin, they are enabled to felllrilh
editions (as they have hitherto done) at the
lowest prices. The following are among the lat*ft
publications.
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, 2
Peakt's Cases at Nisi Prius ; Ridgeway's Reports'
in the time of Lord Hardwick« ; b'loyer's ProAers
Practice in the Ecclesiastical Courts; Barton's
Treatise on a Suit in Equity; Tidd's Practice of
the Court of King's Bench in Personal A<Stipns, 1
part-, complete ; V/ard'6 Law of Nations ; Crujfd
on Uses ; modern Reports, ix vols. London edi
tion.
H. and P. Rici cxpeA to receive by the firft ar
rival lrom the 6th vol. complete of
Durnford and F.aft's Reports, the ad part of Gil
bert's 1-aw ot Evidence by Loft, mdauumbcr of
new publications.
June 20,
$ he fiiftory ot Jfennfylvania,
By ROBERT PROUD,
IS now in the prefi, and will be publiihed,
with all eonvenicnt expedition, by Zi-cha
riah Poulson, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where l'ubfcriptions will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed probata, until the
work 11 ready for the fubfcriberi.
July '3. lawtf
Printed Calicoes.
JOHNMILLER, Jun. & Co.
No. 8 Chcfnttt-Street,
Have for Sale
FTFTY TRUNKS neatly afiertcd, very low on
(hprt trCdil.
March 6. §
Richard and James Potter
HAVE removed their Counting House to No.
45, South Fifth-ftreet.
• uguft 1. , w&f6t
1'
Lancaftcr, Harrijburgh Carlijle,
Sntppenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
THE public requcfted to take notice, that
the partnerlhip which has fur some time sub
sisted between Mathias Slough of Lancaster, and
William Geer, is now dissolved . but, not as M.
Slough infi6uafe»to the public without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fuh
jecft frefm M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 19th
December last. a recital of which is not now deem
ed necelfary. Any gentleman who wishes to be
more circumstantially informed of the merits of
this business, by apply,ng to W. Geer may have
The pcrufal »f M. Slough's letter, and thin can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfedly juftifiabie in attaching him
felf to any other person in'the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
Now from tb« liberal and generous support the
public were pleased to confer on the firft effort in
this business, Vf.illiam Geer, in conjun&ion with
Melfrs. R.-ilv, Weed and Witmer, is determined
toprofecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention anddifpateh that a seal to obligeche oub
lic can possibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
render the paflage fafe and commodious, inform
those wno wi(b to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take , l "eir l'cats at
George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster; Hr,rri(burg,
Oarlifie and Shippenfburg. The fare as hitherto
j established.
I For the further accommedation ot tfte public,
I a Stage wiil ftirt ttvery Wednesday from the house
of, Samuel Elder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thurlday,
and return from thence and arrive at Harrifburg
every Saturday, so that passengers deftmed for
Lanciftei or Philadelphia, may proceed oa Mon
days.
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster, Jan. 17, 1797.
N. B. Thi< Line at Stages starts from tfie
house of William Ferrjk:, in Lancaftcr, on every
Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
ceeding to the weftwal-d; and lrom the house of
Mr. Samuel jSlder in Harrifburg every Wednes
day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenlburg, and returns I
lr«m thence on every Thurfdoy : performing the t
fame routine daily as in its 4our from Philadel
phia. mwf
City of Wafhingcon.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
' or the Improvement tf Federal City.
A. magnificent dwelling-houfc aojotfcdollars,
■ Sc cafli 30,000, are 50,000
1 ditto 15,000 & ca& 15,00© 40,00©
1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
1 ditto xo,ooe & cash 10,000 ao,ooo
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,00© 10,000
1 ditto 51000 8c cash 5,000 10,600
1 ta/h prize ot *O,OOO
1 do. 5,000 eacji, are • 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - io^ooo
-1© do. 500 - - 10,000
00 00. 100 - - 10,000
vio do. * - 10,000
460 do. i? - - 10,000
-tOOO GO. 20 « 10>000
do. 10 - 150,000
*6,739 Prists.
Blanln. '
5c,000 Tickets, at Eight BK>I! art, 400,000
N. 13. Totavour thofewho may takes quan
tity 0/ Tickets,the priat; of 40,000 be
the hit drawn ti.ket, and the 30,000 the last
but ONI;
And approved notes, feeuring payment 111 either
monsy or prizes, ;n ten days alter drawirfc, will
be received foi any number not lets than .to tick
ets.
1 his Lottery will afford an elegant fpfcimen ef
theprivate buildings to be erected in the City of
Wathington—Two beautiful deCgns are already
(ele&ed for the entire fronts on two of the public
squares; from theft drawings it isprcpofed to ere A
two centre and 'our corner buildings ai soon aspof
fible after this lottery isfold, and to convey tliem,
whm complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner drfcribed in the scheme for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduction of five per cent, will
be made to defray the necessary expenses of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intumkd for the Natisna! University, to
be eicGledwithin the city of V>*a(hingtoii.
The realfecuritiesgiven for the payment of the
Priaes, are held by the Prefhlent and two Dire<st
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount ot thelattcry.
SAMUEL BLOJOGST.
«§ # Tickets may he had at the Bank of Colum
bia ; of Janes Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter
Oilman, Bolon ; of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
and of Rickard Wells, Cooper's Ferry.
mwf
From the Otfego Herald.
CAUTION.
WHF.REAS a combination of men in thi<
county have undertaken to enrich th.m
felves,by fabricating titles to sundry valuable tradi
of land, the property of gentlemen living in New
Yoik, Philadelphia, London ana Paris, for which
trails of Und large sums of money have been paid
to thf.fe fraudulent men, by innocent puriiafers ■
It is therefore just that public information fhotild
begivai, to the end, that the injured may ftckre
dreft while the men have property, and are to be
found, fhofe who have been discovered are Tru
nin Harrifon, Joseph Witcomb, said now to re
side in the county of Saratoga ; Thomas Kelly and
fevcral others who go under fi&itious names. It is
supposed that the lands offered fcr faler.n those fa
bricated titles, are at least worth fifty thousand
dollars. Suchtas we have aflual knowledge of are
as follows : Lots No. 11 and la, Otfegu patent,
thousand acres each, the ailual property of William
Dellwjn, now of London ; lots No. 58 ami 64,
si.me petcne, thonfand acres each, the property of
Mr. Chamuont, now of Paris, and ;amcs ATeriU 1
and others, ot tlai> State. There is some grounds
to suppose that the lands of Richard Wells and
Charles Whaj-ton, of Philadelphia, are under their
management—The Printers will do well to give j
this a place in their papers, as well to caution tlv:
public against purchasing those lands, as also to de
prive those men in future from imposing on iftdivi- 1
du.ifs, which their education and address have en- i
abled them to do heretofore. Witcomb has becu
a shopkeeper of some note in this country.
The following affidavits will set in a clear point
of view the wickedness of those men,which wh.n
the public have perused, will indute them to ex
cufc the interference of Wm. COOPER.
Otfego, July 28th, 17j7.
I Thomas Kelly, of the County of Otfego, hiv
ing been led into an error, by John Witcomb and
-1 ruman Harrifon, of the fame County, to sign a
deed to them, for lot N0..58, Otfego patent, which
was the property of William T Franklin now Mr.
Chamont's and others; and further the said Joseph
Truman did perfuademc to do,this against my
inclination, which was made out on the iith day
of November, 1793, or set back two years so is
to bring it to that time ; and further the.name ol
Pardon Starks to that deed was a fc&itious nam--,
there being no such perlon there. To I make
voluntary oath- THOMAS K.&LLY.
19th July, 1797.
Oiitjjc ythjuiy, 179 7, came personally before
me, Thomas Kelly, the hibfcriber to the above af
fidavit, arid made 101 coin oath that it Gontains noth
ing but th. truth.
ELIHU PHINNEY, Juftiee ®f the Peace.
On the i3th July, 1797* oamc before me Ja€ot>
Kibby, ?. person by me well krown and worthy of
good credit, who on hi* fotemn oath did fay, that
two of the parties abovementioned did mak<' ap
piiaition to him this depoiffnt, some time in the
winter of 1796, to make them a deed for two thou
sand acres of land in the Otego patent, and pro
mised this deponent a fliare of the profits, on the
sale of said lands, for his so doing ; and tint they
made application fevcral times for the fame purpo>,
which fervicas this deponent as often refufed, de- |
claring to them that hetliad no right to lands, and
could do no such thing ; which daring attempt on
this deponent's integrity he had related among his
iriends fevcral timet, previous this affi- ,
davit. ( 7 J.HJIKIBBEY.
Sworn before me,
EI.IHU PHINNEY, Juftiee of the Peace.
Aug. 3. ia\v4w.
Thirty Dollars Reward.
ELOPED from the service of the fubferiber,
on the 19th inltant, a neuro man by the
name of DICK, about twenty five years of age,
and five feet nine orten inches high ; by trade
a carpenter, and is a very Kvely brisk work
man. His countenance is very good—i'hen
spoken to, he converses with ease and confi
dence, and is pretty sagacious. I purchal'ed ■
the said fellow of Mr.Dubney Elinor, in whtuic
name he has been advertifcd in the Kichmontt
newspapers. During his last runaway nip (last.
fumnxrj he was employed a confiderahle iengtk
of time, by some person rear Dumfries, from
which circumftanee, I conjedure, he has taken
another nothern route I forewarn) all persons
from giving him employment, of any kind
whatever, and maftersof veflels juid others, from
carrying him out of this state. The above re
ward will he given if he is taken within forty (
miles of this city; and an additional sum, in -
proportion to the di(iance he may be brought,
or the trouble andexpence the apprehendcr mry i
he at, in bringing him to this place.
AUG; DAVIS.
N.B. Mis apparel was of the usual negro kind, ]
buthe had more cloaths tjianis cuflomary for
them to polTel'i.
AD.
Riehmshd, June 11, i"9/«
I Will be Landcil,
Frena oa hoard the ship Atftive, Capt.BtAia.frolh
Hunibuigh,
40 bales white Ruflia clean Hcwp
2 casks Clover Seed
For Sale by
Thomas Herman Lcuffcr»
> / North Fifth ftrcet, No. •34.
William Blacftjurn,
1 LGTTERr and BROKER'S OFFICZ
5 No. 64 south Second llreet.
) JCKETS in the CanalLotterT, No. 11, whkh
J cojnmenced drawing the 29th May, FOR
SALE. The price of tickets will rife in propor
, tion as the drrwing advantes, on ac
j 'wv. 1;t of the five flrit drawn tickets, prised of
, four thousand dollars each, on the last day ot
| drawing.
) Chpck Books kept for examination snd regifler
ing, in the Cuusl, I, City of Wafhingtoii, No."
' 2, and Paterfon Lotteriss.
Also, thkefs forfait in £hc Schuylkill bridge and
Perk onsen Bridge lotteries, which will begin
drawing iu the cirurfe of the fsmmcr.
The bufitiefs of a firokcr in all kinds of 'Swck,
> Bills, Notes, Landa, &c- &t. tianfa&ed with the
• utmofl attention.
■ J uoe 2 i tu!tf
; Erfkine's View of the Vv'ai".
JUST PUBLISHED,
j By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
' 1 No 40 Sou.h Second street,
[Price 31 Cents]
f A Vina of the Causes and Confequen
f ces of theprefert War with France.
' By the Honorable Thomas Erskini.
* May is §
; STATE TRIALS.
1 Sold by W. Young, Bookseller, No. sa, South Se
-1 9 eond-ftreet,
1 The Pennsylvania State Trials,
" the impeachment,trial, and acquit-
VJ al of Francis Hopkinfon, Judge 0/ the Court of
Admiralty, and John Nrcholfon* Comptroller Gen
ual—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, 3
dollars.
W.Young has for sale, a general affortipentof
Books. Also, Stationary, retail and by the pack
ege, well afiorted, and tnlitled to the drawback if
axporfced. July 7—*
j SUBSCRIBER, having been appointed by
jL 'be Envoy Extraordinary and Mihilier Pleni
potentiary of his Britannic Majesty, General '
j foe afiifling Britiih creditors, and lueh particular a
j gents as they may specially authorire, in profeeutinj
I their claims before the c®m miiTi oners for carry irg in
to effeft the sixth article ot the Treaty of Amity, Cew
mtrce and Navigation htwem hi\ Britannic Mayfly and
the United States of America, hereby gives notice that
i he has opened his offi eat his house the louth call
corner of Chefnut and fifth Greets, Philadelphia,
where he is reedy to receive all elairas or inflruftiuos
for claims with the vouchers aud documents thereof,
for the purpole of bringing forward the fame agree
ably so the rules and orders which the board may
think proper to prcfcribe.
And as it will be tor the i>.tercft of all concerned,
that the several claims be so ftatcd, and support.
Ed, as to prevent the delay which would arile irom
the neceffityof obtaining further Information, or ad
ditional materials,from pei lo« s reading at a distance,
1 the general agent thinks it his duty to add, (for the
direction chiefly of ihofe, who, not having employ
ed particular agenfs, may leave the profeeution of
their claims to his charge and management) that all
such claimstought in particular to set forth—
lft. The proper description and fitnatioa of the
creditor or claimeftt, and original debtor, refpaft
ivcly.
ad. The dnte andnjture of the 01 iaimil contraA or
debt.
3d. When, in what irtanner, and to what extent,
the creditor or claimant wis pi evented or impeded,
by the provision, operation or defeat of law, the
decisions and pra£iice of courts, or leftiaintof exe
cution, fjroui recovering payment ot the debt in
qucl\ion«
4th The loss and damage incurred or fuflained,
in confequercc of such impediments, whether die
fame may have arisen from the infolveuey, change of
fituaiicn, ordeaihof the debtor, the loss of iegaf
remedy from laofe of time, or othcrcaufes impairing
the value and Jecurity of the debt, which would nr-t
have so operated if such impediment# had notcxifled.
Apd sth The particular ground: a«d reason? on
which the claimant maintains, in the tfcrms of the
treaty, that li by the ordinary course of judicial pro
ings, the creditor cannot now obtain and afiually
have and receive full and adequate compcofatioti H for
the lofles and damages (o fuitaiued.
The general agent thinks it his duty further to sug
gest that the fevcrai claims ought to be accompanied
and supported by the affidavits of the claimants du'y
sworn and regularly attested, both as to the exigence
of the dcbts'elaimed, and such other circumftanccs
as may be within their own knowledge reff e&ively.
And wherever the claimants in Hating aaturc of
their evidence (which mull in every inf.jnce be the
best-os wh:ch the caie is capable) have occalion to
refer to the leflimony of witnesses, it will bt prefer
10 apprifethe general agent of the names and places
of refideoce of such witneffesand thcfafihlo be efla
blifhed by their tcftimony. > *
Wm. Moore Smith.
Philadelphia, June Bth, 1707* d-
For B<ile,
That well known place, tailed Vands&rii t's
FFRny,
ON Nefhamißy creek, 18 miles from Phi
ladelphia, on the New York polt road,
c Vitasning 74 acres and 94' perches. Upon the
prinnifet are a large tw.o ftery flone houle occu
pied at a tvern, and a good one story stone kit
chen, a large frame stable with a good threfliing
door, and l'ome out buildings—also a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
this place is a most elegant Jituation fora gentle
man's feat, commanding a view of the Nefham
iny to its jun&ior. wiih the Delaware, and thence '
'acrofa to the Jerfey'Btore. It has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the br:dg,e.
For terms apply to the Snbi-riber,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
Vav 24. atawtf.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBRIDGE with much pleas
ure and refpsfl, returns her fuicere ac
knowledgement for the liberal
(lie has received during four years residence in
Philadelphia ; and sffures her friends aiuf the
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, (h; has made a fjipcrior arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
fcholar9.—Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groom'bridge and mailers excelling in their
rcfpedlive profr-flions. (
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797. Jimfrf [
The situation is perfeflly healthy ; andmade j
more agreeable by an exter.fiye garden and lot
qf ground adieining the house.
fujl Publi/hed,
And to be had of Dobfon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal Booksellers in the *
city,price one dollar, twmty-feve cents,in boards^
New Views of the Origin of the {
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BfNJAMJN SMITH BARTON, if. d.
June a®. *6t
No. 183.
n • lii/iriS tf Pennfyhianiiiy t» sy// ;
L. S. R E ' T ' that otf the
'ifteenth day of June, in tile twenty
firlt year ol- the .Independence of the United
States of An,erica, Jam*x Woodhousp, <rf
the fa'rd dilftitty hathdepofited in this office the
title e*' a book, the right whereof he claims as
author, in the. word* following, to wit
< i s "V oung' Chemilt'i Pocket Companion,
" being 3 IJeferiptirn of a Purtable Labaratory,
" containing a Philosophical apparat.ll6, and a
" g*** "uraher of Chemical Agents, by which
> '■«aiw person may perform ah endless variety of
>■ " *Hii>f(Ttg anil inftrnilingf Experiments, de(ign
" ed for the life of ladies and gentlemen, and
'•intended to promote the cultivation of the
" Science of Chemistry in the United States of
' " America. By Jam f s Woodhou sb, M. D.
" Profeffi't- of Chetr.iflry, in the University of
" Penmylvania, President of the Chemical So
" ciety of Philadelphia, &c.
I "At present every tiling that is not denomi
j " nated Cliemiftrv, is b\ft a small ptft of a fyf
" tern of natural knowledge.
Pric/lly on Air"
In conformity to the aaoftheCongvefs of the
United States, intituled,' 4 An a<fl for the encour
agement of Learning, by feeuringthe copies of
maps, charts, and books to the authors and pro
prietors of h:eh copies, during t!(e times there
in mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL, Clerk of the
DiftritJl of Pennfylvimia.
d 3 t— w6 tf
Ho, 188.
D/JlriS of Pennfylvaaia, to iu'tt :
(l. ..) W " REMjiMBKRED, that on the
" . r . twenty sixth day of July, i« the Cwer
ty lecond year of the independence of the United
fetatc.of America, John Fenno, of thi fai.i dil
trsei.hatli depofitrd in this office the title of a book,
the right whereof he claims as proprietor, in the
word? following, to wit :
" O; fcrvations on certain documents tontainej
f « in Nc. V.and VI. of "The HifWy of thcUnit
- " e *j5 tat " for the y iT 1 796," in which the charge
( " of*Tpf culation, against Alexander Hamilton, late''
" Secretary of the Treafory, is fully refuted—
C " writt v by himfelf"
In conformity to-he aft of the Congress -of the
f I Utited States, entituled, •' An aS for the encour
r agemeut of learning, by securing the copies of
i nirtps, charts and hooks to the authors ant? propri
j etort of furh copies, during the time. thereto men
f : tioned."
t ") SAMUEL CALDWELL,
- I Clerk of the i'ajirici oj Pennj^ln.'ttma.
f ■ J»'rv- " w 4 w |
_ ! Public Notice is hereby
' I 'HA Tat June term, 1797, a petition was
t -i- presented to the Court of Common Flejs,
I held at Y®rk Town, in the Sttte of Penrtfylva
• tiia, at the inflance of Jame< Short, pravine
: the Ceurt to supply a loft deed nsade by a cer
| 1 tain Andrew Hitkepluber, to Hugh Morrifon,
I James Morrifon, and John Sample, executors
, to Ilans Morrifon, deceased, for fix hundred
, acr «« of Land, fituale in MeijalleH.
. townlhip, in the eounty of York AjJ per
-1 fons-who have any objections to make tn the'ob
■ jeift of the hidpefitiom are desired to attend at
» the Court i loule, in the town of York; on the
j,th day of September next, othtrwile the loft
I deed will be supplied. ,
JOHN EDIE, Clerk,
7"'y 18- cots?
30 Dollars Reward.
RAN away on Saturdny Ifift, two indCTtc'V?-
vanti.Cifford Dally, a mulwto hoy.tth't ,17
years of age, a Aim li K ht built *ftivefelk>v., can
read and write,fife feet ftrcn or eight iuehtk high,
has a heavy countenance; had on a fuftian coatee
and trowfers, a high crowned hat, fine &c.
Allan Hellons, a black man, about 14 years of
age, five feet leven or eight inches high, a thick fer.
clunify built f«ll«w, particularly'about«he Jireeclr;
had on a faiior's blue jacktt lined with fwanikiu,
dark l'tiipcd vest, fuftian trowfers, high crowned
hat, eoarfc shoes, *ce.; each of them had several
feirts and several other cloathes with them. Thir
ty Do.'ars will be paid for the runaways, or 1 f dol
lar* for each, and reasonable charges, or delivering
them at Mo. 54, Novth Third-street.
she black ITT!Ow j s about a year from Lewis
Town, in the County of. Sussex, state of Dela
ware, and has taken the boy with him.
July 31. mtu&ftw
To be' SOLD or RENTED,
A LARGE 3 Story Brick Hotife, on the .
South fide ef Filbert itreet, between
Eighth and Ninth, lately occupied as the Sur
veyor General's Office.
The Building is 36 feet front and 35 feet deep,
the lot 110 feet deep, with the privilege of a nine
feet wide Alley extending the whole length of
the lot,to a thirty feet wide Court for Carriages
to turn in. The Koufe is not plastered, at d
may be turned either into one, or t<vo dwelling
Houses. It is suitable for a large Manufaiftory,
or would make a good Tavern. Immediate
poflcffioii will be given.
Apply to No. 111, Chefnut-Street.
cod 4 t..
Mujkal In/irumnt Manufactory,
ho. 167, Arch Strtct.
HARPER, harpsichord, grand, portable grand,
fid aboard, pier table and square piano forte
mak.r from London, returns thanks to his friends
and the public, for their liberal encouragement,
and hopes that by hisaflidjiitv and attention to ev
ery branch of his fcufineftf, toir crit a continuance
,of their favors. Piano fertes made on the newest
and most approved plans, with prdals, patent,
swell, and French harp flop, whrch he fli.tteis
himfclf will ue found cn trial by unprejudiced
judges, to be equal if not fuperiorto any import
ed, and twenty per cent chi iper. Any inftru
mi nt purcha'ed of him, it aot approved of i«
twelve months, he will exchange.
N. B. All kinds of A-fufictil inftrutnrnts ma<cle,
uned, and repaired with the grenteft accuracy,
dispatch, and on the most reaionable ternif, lor
ready motaey only.
Second hand Piano Fortes taken in exchange,
Ma y»c- &4.T..
I'orty Dollars Reward.
RAN away fr.irti the fnbfcriber, 011 the fre
ond day of this imi . July, a Mulatto Man,
named Will Bewzer, about forty years of nge,
five feet seven or eight inches' high, rather
chunky .made ; had on when he went away, a
drab colored cloth coat, llriped purple trawftrt
and jacket. It is probable he will change hia
cloathes, as he-took a number with hjtOi The
saul fellow formerly belonged to Mr. Chariei
Blake of this place ; and it is exp'edletl hchasi
made towards Jones'k Neck, in the Delaware'
State.—Any perl/ n apprehending the f«id fel
low, and fccfiring him so that I can get him a-,
gain, (hall receive the above reward if takea
rfct of the county, and Twenty Dollars if in
the county, and all reasonable charges if bro't
lujme- , ,
' JESSE REED,
Queen Ana's County, Marvland,
J ul X 3- " w 4 t