t of t%s and Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
•• J-'US£R :5; 4 j
For Boflott,
The Schecxer
mm s A L L
'■ ASA Scudder, Master,
NOW lying at Chcfnut-ilrc t wha'f; will fail
in a few day.. For freight or pillage, apcly
to the Captain on or to
Joseph Anthony, Es? Co.
Far Sol* on board said Sccoomr,
A few barrels of flat MACJ£AR£JL.
Tulv IJ, fjl
Perfors having freight on hoaH the said schoo
ner. are desired to call immediately for the fame.
1 • • ■ , 1 ■ • ■ ■
For Amsterdam.
THE SH "
' Four Friends,
fail with ail convenientfpecd.thegrea-
V ter part of her being ready. . Fof
si eight or paflage apply to the captain on hoard,or
JeJfe fc? Rob. Wain.
■ dtf
For Hamburgh,
cHATLO'TTE,
3 C. F. Damnberger, Majler.
be ready to receive the cafgo in a f*w
* V days, and is afaft failing flauuch,good vet* '
feJ, wellfound—For freight or paflage, apply to
George Pcnnock,
No. 103, Market-Jlreel.
J"fy 7- 3aw3w
LANDI N G,
At WaJout-ftreet wharf, from on lioid (hip Man
chefier, Bcrj Shewed, ni^fter,from Boardeaux,
Bourdsaux Brandy
Old Claret in hhds. jgyjjflKj
Medoc Wine in cases
Sauterne do. do.
For Sale by
Thotnas Murgatroycf,
No\ 11, V/alaitl-ftrcti.
Said Ship far Freight or Charter,
i""2~w Burthen 180 tons, Philadelphia
jfedOvO. bui't of live Oak and Cedar, will
be ready to fail in a few day;.
Apply as above.
_ Jnlyj- mwf
For Sale,
"^ e fi" e remarkably faft
■> Virginia and Philadelphia
Burthen aDout 100 tons. Fo- terms apply to
Rofs & Sim/on.
June ii. dtf
For Sale,
The cargo of the brig Enlerfrize, Captain
Langdon from Bourdeaux, now landing at
Morton's wharf,
COnsitinc OF
5x4 hhds. of Claret "] 2 j
117 cases of ditto j -p o
- too cfes of Sweet Oil <* * "»
IJO pipes London proof > BRANDy- I | j
10 pipes of Holland proof ) j W <0
Apply to
Whartcn & Lewis,
No. iij» South Front St.
J-—» Said Brig,
WILT, take a FREIGHT for
the Well-Indies or Europe, fails
faft, burthen about fifteen hun-
barrels, is in complete or.
dtr, and will be ready to receive a cargo in a
few days
Apply as above.
May 14 f §
Lajl .Exhibition
TN the great Dancing Room of Mr. M'Dougall,
J. South y#uTth-(lreet, between Chefnut and Wal
nut flreet, at 8 o'clock in ths everting.
The -Automaton! which have excited the admi
ration of the connoisseurs, wi 1 absolutely leave foT
ever their aftonithinff -exerciles, on Friday the 2id
of moa'h. After the experiments of natural
philosophy, the artificial lady will exhibit several
tire works without powder or fmcll.
Entrance half a dollar—Children half price.
July it. jpytat
Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLER, Jan. & Co.
No. 8 Chefnut-Street, \
Have for Sale
FJFTY TRUNKS neatly assorted, very low on
fhorteredit. . ,
March 6. < §
Imported in the Jhip Pigou,
And far file.by John Morton, No. 116, South
frontftreet,
Hyfiin
HyfonSkin ( TEAS
Young Hylon ( •
. Imperial J
April .20. eotf
Bejl Englijh Crown Window Gla/s.
A well assorted Invoiceofthe heft Engliih Crown
Window Glass, of the following sizes:
10 by 8 T
II- by 9
14 by !o 312 BOXES.
16 hy I»
19 by 14
Xikewifc frefe Rice, high proof Brandy, best
jnef3Be«f. in half barrels.
Sail Cloth, JIo. I. to 8.
Sherry Wine.
A few hundred weight of excellent Dutch Piltol
Rifle Gun Powder—and,
Thirty Boxes Chocolate.
For Sale hy,
Samuef Br eel, Jiin.
No. 89, South Thirdjlrtst.
at. » coipt.
"""a The Shareholders
Of th Pennfyhania Population Company,
ARP requested to meet at the Company's Of-
No S3' North Fourth Street, on Saturday
the 15th in!*- at n o'clock
-3y order of the Board,
SOLOMON MAR ACHE, Sec'ry. .
July 1, :M6t.
PHILADELPHIA • MONDAY JULY 17, , 797
Federal-Street Theatre.
NOTICE is hei-ehy given, tliet the Truflees
of the Ballon Theatre» will receive Propo
faU si rm any pirlun, or company, for the (e«fe
of the 1 heatre :n Federal-ftivet, for a tarm not
exceeding fi, e vears
Also, to b; Li, The Dwelling Koufe part
of the lam; building, vml the ce lar under the
fame. For terms of inquire oF
THOMAS BARTLETT, Pro's tli.
Bottoo, July 5. 5i 4 j
caution.
VJ7H£KEAS Richard Lake has been at-
V V tempting to fell a certain mefiiiage or ten
ement and lot of ground, Gruated on thefouth
fide of V;ne-fttreet, in the city of Philadelphia,
containing iir breadth, on Vine-street. fix'een
feet, and in depth, fouthwarcl, seventy fire feet,
hf.undcd on the north lide by Vihe-llieet, 011
tlieeaft by ground late of Samuel Rbtides and
Sarah b-s wife, on the fnuth hv ground late of
John Pemberton, and on the -j. efi.by another lot
then about to be granted to Joseph Hulings—
-1 his is therefore to caution all perfuns againfl
. purchafmg the above deforited property, the
fame having heeu mortgaged fyy the said Kich
ard Lake to Williim Spade.
SARAH SPADE.
July 14. eojw
THE Members of the Society of the Sons®!'St.
Gcohce. cftabhflied at VhilaJelphia, for the
Advice and Alliftance ol Englilhmen in DiArefs, are
requested to attend a Quarterly Mcefieg o th? fajd j
Society, at the City J avern, on Monuay the !A"h,
of July, at 7 o'clock in the Evening.
GJURGE DAVIS.
N.B. Several Members to be ballcted for.
July 14. mta4
LANDING,
A T 3i-mtfi"flrf«t Wharf, r rom cm board fchoon
. , eaprain Harding Williams,
from St.Ti.omas, a Cargo t-f
GofFee, and Rum.
For Sale hy
F. Coppinger,
No. 221, South Frant-Jlreet.
July 10. S iet
Wants Employment,
IN a flora, a Man who can be well recommend
ed, writes a good hiivl and underJlands acr
compts. Apply at No. <O, North Fifth Street, and
Cherry-alley. Any reputable place will suit. J
J»ly 10. *3t J
A Wet Ntirfe Wanted.
A Healthy Woman with a good bread of
milk, may hear of a plice by applying at
the Printing Office of this paper.
July ic. *Jt
Health-Office, Philadelphia, 71b June, 1797.
r "| HE Btardvf Health offer to r-nt out the NEW
I CJI" v HOSH rA L, afually called The H'i s -
V>am.
It maybe occupied as 1 Tavern, for jvhichthere
are excellent accommodations. The person taking
it mutt b< capable and willing to aft in the capaci
ty of a Steward; in cafe a contageous djfeafe in
the city, should at any time render it iicceffary.to
make ufc of the premises asaHofpital. It cannot
therefore bj let for any limited time—and the red
• oainted frame btiildlng is to be reserved. Prtpofall
in writing will" be received at thi» office, stating
what rent will he allowed under the foregoing cjr
cumflanccs None need apply without being ai-le
to produce the best recomn^end^tions.
JOHN MILLER, Jun.
Chairman of the Bward of Health.
July 3 V
POJST-OfFJCEI
Philadelphia, 6th Jyly, '97.
THE mailfor New Cajlle, Cai.tiuell's bridge.
Duck Creek cross toad), Dover, Frederic a, Mil
ford, George Toivi fin tbe . lace of Clowes) and
m Delaware ; Trap and Sriorjv-
I'ill, in Maryland ; Horn Town, Accomack C
H. and Ntrtbampion C. H in Virginia ; %*iti
be clofei every Monday, rVtiaefiay,ani Friday,
at fun fet■ I St
Georgetown Bridge Company.
Extract of an a£l pasTed by the Legislature of
the state of Maryland on the 19th December,
1791, entitled, " An ai£l for ere<£ling.a bridge
over Potowmac river.
'• And be it emitted, that the said direilors or
any two as them shall and may require any sum
or i'ums of money in equal proportion from earh
and every proprietor, as may from time to time
be neceflary for carrying on the building of said
bridge ; and after giving three months, public
notice, it (hall and may be lawful for the direc
tors to sue for and recover in the namo of the
company such unpaid requisition, with all cofls
and charges incidental thereto, and legal interefl
thereon from the time the fame should have
heeu paid : And the negl-A onrefufal to pay any
such rcquifition after public notice shall have
been given a( least for three mouths in all the
newfpapersheiein before enumented, shall have
the efFeil to forfeit all preceding payments made
on the flrare or shares so neglefied or reful'ed to
be paid t«> the use and benefit of the company."
mation of fbehef the flockboldeis as have not
complied with the requisitions heretofore made
—they aie as follow : On the rfl November,
1795» *.? dollar?, on the loth May, 1796, 40
dollars; an the aothjuly, 1796, 40dollars ; on
the ill September, 1596, 40 dollars, and on the
ifl November, 1796, 60 dollars. Caution it
now given that after the expiration of the time
limited for the continuance of this advertile
ment (three months) the law will he carried
into rigid and complete effedl againfl all delin
quents.
By order of the Ditjedlors,
WALTER SMITH, Treasurer.
Oeergetown, May i', 1797. iaw^m
Young Hyson Tea.
40 chests of a superior quality—Alio,
100 do.of Hyson,
Imported in the tfoodrop Sims, and for sale by
the fuiifcribcrs, corner of Second and Pine
flrect.
C. Ha'tghf.
June jr. ~ eotf
hy John Fen no, N a up Chefnut Street.
25D Barrels
' ConvtSicnt Htrriagt) aadifo iarrets cf Bief,
I or Sale on board thj £Jiooo«r l'radenct, Crjol
ed Siiet Witef— or l>y
■ EZEKfEL HALL.
' J'JTCs's Wtet
-Wr U- - Y-
C-urioas & Liegant Keprdentations
Of A GEtEAT VARIETY c/ EiSOS,
In wjijcii, their eial i-lum.igi. is preletvtd,and
which si* fold 3» cheap a> common sricr», by"
JOHN ORMRQXJ, .
No .;i, Chefnut Street.
T"'y 15- jt.
Will iam Blackburn,
LOTTf.RT Attn BROKER'S OFFICE
_ No. 64 Second flreet.
j ICKETS in the Canal Lottefy, No If, which
A ccmmspe-d. drawing the 29th May, FOR
SALE. The price cf tickets will rife in propor
tion aj the driv.ing advances, particularly on ac
count of the five firft drawn tickets prizes of
four thousand dollar* each, on the latl day ol
drawing.
Check Books kept for examination and regifler
ing, in the Canal, No. a, tJity of Waldington, No.
a, and Patcrfor. Lotteries,
Alio, tickets for sale in the Schuylkill bridge aud
Perk omen Br.dge lotteiks, which will begin
draiviue in the course of the summer.
The bufiacfs of a Broker in ail kin-Is of Stock,
Bills, Notes, Lands, 3fc-&c. tranl'acfted with the
utrr.olj i;tcntien.
| tu&f
J he Commiffioncrs
IT 0R carrying into esseS the sixth article of the
X treaty ol amity, commerce and navigation, con
cluded between hisßritannic raijsfty and thf United
States ■ 'f America, en the /9th day of November,
1794, having this day constituted their Board,
pursuant aa-j agreeably to the said treaty, do here
by giv; notice, that they arc ready to proceed to
bufiuefc defer* that all claims
Under the said article (which so fat asths fane de
ftri, c • the cases thereby pr- vidcj for, is hereunto
annexed) may be lodged with their Secretary with
out delay.
They further dclirethat all such claims may not
only state in what manner the several cases come
within the defciiption of the laid artide, but aifo
specially set for'h Jie nature of the evidence by
which the claimants refpc&ivcly undertake tefub
ftantiate the fame
Extra A from the (aid article,
" Whereas it is aUcdged by divers Britilh mer
" chants, and ethers his majcft> *« fuhjeds, that
" dehta to a rabla amount, which were bona
1 " fide contraded, before the peace, ftiil remain
! M owing to them by ciriaens or inhabitant* of the
M United States ; and that by the operation of va
" rious lawful impedixents, since the peace, not
4< only the fuil recovery of the said debts h*s been
delayed, but alfotlle value and security thereof
4t have been in several in|t«r.ce» iaipaired and leff
u ened, lb that by the ordinary couife of judicial
" proceedings, the British creditors cannot now
M obtain and actually have and receiye full and
u adequate compensation for loiTc»and dama
,c ges which tnfcy hive,thcreby fuf ained: It is a
u greed that in all such cafea where full compenfa
" t ion lor such lollcs and damages cannot for what
-44 everreafonbe a&tt lly obtained, recei
ved by the said creditors in the ordinary courfo
4 ' of jwfnce, the United States will xxnke £qJJ an 4
4< complete compensation for the fame to the
44 creditor*; btit it is diftinAly understood, that
4 ' this provifiou is to extend to such loflVs only as
" have by the lawful impediments
" aforcfaid, and is not to extend to ioflos occafion
-41 ed fey such infelvcncy of the debtors or other
causes, as would equally have operated to pro
" duce such loss, if the said impediments had not
" cxifted ; nor to furh lofTes or damages rs have
heen occasioned by the manileft delay, ornegii
i,iucc, or wilXul omiilion of the claimant."
By order of ibs Board,
GRIFFITH EVAN3,
1 Sccretgry.
Philadelphia, Commissioners' OfEcr,
No. 3 south Sixth-street, May *9,
1 79 / - J 6—^im
IHt SUiiSCRIBER having been appointed by
the Envoy Extraordinai y and Minitter Pleni
potentiary of hi* Britannic Majesty, General a gent
for afiilting Hriiifli creditors, and ikch particular a
gents a* they may Ipecially auihoriec, in prosecuting
their claims before the for carrying in
-10 effeft the sixth article ot the Trtcty of Antiy, Com
mcrcc and Navigation between kis Britannic KajeJiy and
the United Stat:s gf America, notice that
he has opened his office at his koufe the south cast
corner of Chefnut and fifth ftr<e4s, Philadelphia,
where he is ready }o receive all claims or iitftxU&ions
for claims with the vouchers aud documents thereof,
lor the purpose of bringing fbrwa«d the fame agree
ablv so the rules and orders which the boaid may
think proper to prescribe.
And as it will be for the interefl of all concerned,
that the several claims be so ftatcd, and fupporu
id, as to prevent the delay which would ariic from
the necefliiyof obtaining further information, or ad
ditional materials,from persons rcfiding at a diftsnce,
tbe general agent thinks it his duty to add, (for the
direction chiefly of thofr, who, not having employ
ed particular agents, may leave the prosecution of
their claims t0 his charge and management] that all
such claims ought in particular to set torth—
ill. The proper defci'ip-.ion and fitoaiion of the
creditor .or claimant, end original debtor, icfpeit
| ively.
ad. The date and nature of the original contra# or
debt.
3d. When, in what manner, and to what extent,
the creditor or claimant w s pi evented or impeded,
by the provifiou, operation or dtNe£t of law, the i
deeifions and practice of courts, or »rftraint of exe
cution, fiom iccovtring payment vi ti.e debt in j
qutftion. .
4th The loss and damage incurred or fuflained,
in confequer.c® of such iinnedi merits, whether (he
Came may have arisen from the infolveiiev, change of
fi'uatioc, or death of the debtor, the 01 lega* ,
remedy from iapie of time, or other caafes impairi jg .
the value and security of the debt* which v.ou'rl |ior
have so operated if such impedimenta had not exifled. j
And 51b The particular grotands and reasons on
which theclaimaitf maintainsi in terms of the c
treaty, that 44 by the ordinary omrfe vj judicial pro- '
ings, the creditor cannot now obtain 'and aftually <
have and receive full and adequate compensation" for 1
the lofTes and damages lofuftaiued.
The general age in ihinki it his duty further to fug- j
gefl that the f veial claims oughr ro be accompanied
and fuppor.ted by the of tht claimants duly
sworn and regularly anefted, both a# to the exiHertfe _
of the debts claimed, and such other circurmlances
as may be within, their knowledge rdpe&ively
And wherever the claimants in.Hating rhr nature of
their evidence, (which mull in every inAahce be the
best of which the cafe is capable) have occafiori to
icfer to theteUimony of witncTc&, it will proper
to apprise the general agent of the n«>Qes and places
of residence of luch witneffesand ihj "bo etta
blifhtd by the'ir te jit ninny.
Wm. Mcore Smith.
Philadelphia, June Bth, liirn
City Commijfionet s Office,
' TV ..<• r JU " e 2i ' '797.
j > pu: .tance 01 an.ordinance from the ieisft
A ana cotnmun councils, pafilrl :hc J2d day of
Way faff, apjx.intxg the c;ty corurnilfibncis,
'• 0 prefdihiug ihtir duties, &A'ton 9th,
KOnCii JS KEKE6Y GIViiN,
, l hat the city is divided into five dilfrWs,
each to be undir ihe fujierintciidance of one of
- he city romniUfK-aers, who is lobe individually
rtlponfihle for the clcaalinefs of thj f.'-mc, ar.il
are as so iov/.
wir itr<rt, to ti.e oouh Udc ol i-jinjea-jfreet,Un
der the of Naiban Bay»-
I. Prom the ncrth fide of fcpiuce-ilree:, to
the north fide of VValnut-tt.-ce:, under the super
• lhtendence «f Uogh Kohirtr.
3- I rnm the north fide of W11)1 ut tatliefouth
, * °f Hiah-ftreet, un-icr ihe fupermieni/enee of
Joseph Ciaypoole.
4- From tiie north fitie of Higli-fircet, to the
north fide of Mulberry street, under ihc fu'p-rr
mttndence of Williaaj Moulder;
5> I'rom the north ii-'.e of ivlnt*rry street to
the north !i«le of Vine-jfrcer, under (he fup'er
intendence of Nicholas Hicks
' cleaning of High-ftrect to he in conwraon.
C? A ilatcd meeting of the city cominnTion
cti is held at tbe OJd Court House, in High
ftreet, every Tuefdajr evening at 5 o'clock.
J"ly '4- coim
Stands Jor Draymen, &C.
In pursuance afun Ordinance from tbeSeltS and
Common Council, bearing date tbe ttd day of
April, 1797, providing fir Qe oppohitnjf.it of
City Com »nfjianerj, c. ieel. tbe 15 ib.
i'HE followuig places are {xed ujxin liv the
said City Commissioners for Stands for
Draymen and their HorfeS.
In Vine-Hwt, ealtward of ?ront-ftreet, on
both firfesi
SalTafras. High, Chefnut and Walnut-ftlrects,
eaflwar4 of rront-ftreet, oil thf no. th fidp only.
Mulberry-street, fonth £de treia Front to
Third-ftretf.
Iront-flrcct, eafl fide from Vine-flreet to
Elr'tilh'f alley.
Front-ftreer, from opposite to Black Horle al
ley to Hamilton's {lores, east fide.
Waler-ftreet, weft fide from the north end of
Stamper's or Moorr's stores to Pine-street.
Penn-ftreet from Pine to Ce'Jar-ftreet, weft
fide.
Drau.hr-.dgr, north fide, ead of Front-street.
Spruce, Pine and South flreets, e»ft of Frost
street, fonth fide.
Dock-flreet, between Walnut-street and th*
flag stone crossings, east fide, opposite George
Orkley's.
Second-street, between SafTafras and Vine
ftrerts, weft fide.
Fifth-ftreet, east fide from Chefnut to Mul
berry flreets.
SafTafrai-ftreet, from Third to Fourth-street,
east fide.
No dray or horse to stand within ten sees of
any pomp.
STANDS FOR HACKNEY COACHES.
Pine-street, north fide from Fourth to Fifth
streets.
Fifth-ftreet, between Chefnut and Walnut
streets, weft.
Branch street, north fide, between Third and
Fourth streets.
July J4. mw&fim
thiladelphia and Luncajier Turn
pike Company.
July 1 ab, 1797.
A T a meeting of the President and Managers,a
FX dividend of seven and a half dellars.per share
was declared for the lr.ft half year, which -frill be
retained by the Prdidem and Managers £®r che
f arpoles of paying the debts of the Company, a
jreeahle to arefolutionof the Stockholders the 12th
jun: iaft.
TENCH FRANCIS, Treasurer.
£xtraci frym tbe Minutes of Ibe Stockholders.
June 12th, 1797-
Refi)lvnf,
That the opened for one htoJred
additional mares of flock, conformable to a relolu
tion of the nth January, 1796, be now
ano that the stock #f the Company consist of
twelve hundred instead of thirteen hundred fl:ares.
Wm. GOVETT, Secretary.
July IC> m&wlw m<fetu3w
lo be iold at Public Veiidae,
To the highest bidder, at the houfc of Mr.
William Evans, the (ign of the Indian
Queen, in the city ?f Baltimore, on the 15th
day of Oitober next, at 11 o'clock, A. M
About fsven thouland acres of land,
the property of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
lying between ReidcrVtown and Weftminllcr,
commonly called Little Winchefler, (the turn
pike road runs tluough a considerable part of
these lands) she tra-fl begins gbout 17 miles
from Baltimore, wi'.hin a few hundred yards
of said Reiller'a-tpwn, and extendi to the tfifr
tance of about twenty-three milts from Balti
more, and liw on the main falls df Patapfico
river, from three to soar miles thereon. Will
be fold in trafta of one hundred and fifty to
three hundred acre. There is a large propor
tion of meadow and wood land on each traA,
some of them highly improved, with excellent
buildings and fine grds.
AISO,
A tras of seven hundred acres of
land, called Clover Farms, within five miles of
Bladenfhurg, esteemed very good for Graft.
Richard Ponfonby, of Bladenfburgh, will shew
this land to any person inclined to purchase.
also;
A tra& of land of about three hun- '
dred a*d thirty afres, within about two milek
and a half of the President's house in the Fede
ral City. It is nearly all Wood land, and a fine
high profpeif, from which may be fcea the
city of Wafliingtcn, Bladenfburgh, Alexandria
and a of George-town, ar-i many miles
down the Potomac river. Mr. Richifd Ponfon
by, of Bladenfourg, will a'.fo iheu- this land.
, A liberal credit will be given for the greatest
part of the purchase money. Jhe terms will 5
be made known <;n the day of sale.
May is W3m
Just Received,
From Batav!a(viaProv:iience)
170 Sacks of Java Coffee of firft quality
100 half fatfks do. do.
a fiw Boxssof Sfiiccs. ccnfifting of
Nutmegs, Cloves and iiace
For fa Is by
HILLINGS if FRANCIS,
. Pep.-r.fi.--vt.
way 3f its
1 o Mojlsf; and Fi.'rts bringing up Ve£<fc
from Farcer. Ports to 'this City.
t CTTHerr.as fundi y itrtiiogeme-nt-tiiave laely teen
p v V mad« on the law;, of t&is it ate for the pre
, v -«ting )J*ililei?ckil or infeflious diiieafes, either
Irom ignorance or inattcnii( H thereto, it is tho't
at tliistinicto yu'o'.iU} the following cXb
from the laws of %2d April, 1794,, ?th and
p Bda ic£lion«.
i KEALTH-oFpicE.
June 6th, 1794.
Extrap of an cftfir.ficuring the ttiy and part
cf Pbtifllclpb'ui from the introduction of frfti
hnunl xnei cq d.ig&uj dif'ofes.
Sect. 7. be it lurth.-r cirtStsl, thiU Kfff
matter or captain of any (hip cr veflcl earning fron,.
sea (veflcis uaily employed .n tiic coaftmg tru(c
excepted) and bound to ftriy port or place wittjitj
the jurifchdion of Pennl'yivama.fha'l cause hisfhip
or veffdl to be brought to anchor, or otherwise fl ? yi
ed in the stream of the river Delaware, oppofiti- to'
ihe Health-Office on 3tat<-I2«ttd aforcfaiu, ami
there to remain until hi fh..ii lave duly obtained a
certificate or bill of heal h/rom tile Rtfideru Phy
ficiiu. Atid il, previously to ti!>faii:inij fu,:ii certi
ficate or biU'cf health, any mafteT or captilin foall
fufiejt his ihip or vaffel to approach nearer than the
laid Hea'th-Ojiice to >he city of Philadelphia, o,
lhail bad, cause erfufftr ta be lar.lod, or brogue
on shore, at ajiy place or port within this Com
monwea :th, or atjiny other port or place, with the
intent oi being couveytd iuto this Commonwealth,
any ptrion or persons, cr any goods, \Vares or mer
chandize, or, ut after rreeivirg such bill of heulij.
0. certificate, he negt.a'or rcfafo to deliver
the lame eti the Hcalth-Ortic.r, such ma'aeror cap
tain Stall forte.t and pay, for each rtfidevery lac-'
offence, the fuui of i:vi. hUndileo dollars.
And che capta;ti or matter of every. fh:p or ves
sel shall fend a £a?e and commodious boat to
the phyfic;ar» on board, and shall in like marrter
convey him back to theHsalth-Office, after he has'
concluded his oflicial examination ; ACdvyhiJe he
if making such examination, or in rase anj/tfbfj
nuent examination by the Heal h Officer -or Coo
iuWeg Phyficiatr, agreeably to the Arciuutit of
thi- -i-i, .the, matter or c4ptai.ll fhaliexpo.'a t>r fsihe
to be eipofed to tlufeirth of rhs Rrfideut Vhyft
ciin.or of,the Health Officer and Confnittng Hhyfi
ciaa (as the cafe may be) > ach end every part of the
fliip or vessel, and fliid present to -his view each
and every person cr perfocs on board thereof, and
rfad (hall aifo trhe and fatisfa&ory answers make
ti> all tuch qucftioca as the Resident Phylician, Ike.
artlie time cf examination lhall dk relative to the
health of any potior place fr»m which the Clip or
vefiel failed, or has finse touched at—:hc number
of persons od board when the Ihip or vessel entered
on her voyage—the number ol persons that have
since been landed or taken on board, and when
and where refpedlively—what pcrfoEjon board
f they have begn during the voyage, or {hall, at
the time of examination, be infeded with any pes
tilential or contagious diftale—and what is the pre
feat state and condition of the persons on board
with refpefl to their health or diseases. And if
any matter or captain (hall refufe to expose as afore
aid, to the iearch of any of the officers aforcfaid,
r if he shall uncial any fui ptrjon, or in any other mar.•
"cr deceive tit proper fficn aftrefaid in bis anhveri,
such captain or maftei.for every luch offence, shall
forfeit and pay the sum of iive hundred dol
lars.
SicT. 8. And if any person or perfens whatso
ever (the Resident Physician, &c. excepted) shall
go on board nay vessel, before the matter thereof
has received a certificate of hiiith in the manner
dired»vJ, every uArfon so off.ndiog, shall pay the
Um «f ONE IIUNUiIED dollars,
IT being abfclutety necessary that the foregoing
fe<9ionj should be punctually complied with, the
fuufcriber, in compliance with his duty, mull ex
aa a rigorous obrervance of the fame, or else be
under the necessity of puttiag the laws in force.
Wm. ALLEN, Health OJpcir ef the
Pert of Philadelphia.
_JulyJ4. c( 3w .
N O T 1 C~E.
THE holder- of certificates of a loan to the ex
iled (Citizens of, the States of South Carolina and
Georgia, under an ail of Congtefs 13d July, lygr,
I.re informed, that by lodging the fame with
George Simpfon, Cafhierol the Bank of the Unit
ed States, they will be caabledto receive payment
cf principal and mtcreft, as soon as the certificates
can be forwarded to Clurlefion for fettlement,and
orders received for tlioir dlfcharge.
]"'»• . 6t
To he Syid,
jd large and convenient
• Three Story Brick House;
SIl O - l ii at the north-east corner of Arch and
I onrth-itrcef-. It contains eighteen rooms—
and is in every refped well finifhed. For particu
lars enquire of
M. Keppele,
No. 13S, Chefnut-ftreet.
May ? f. £
FOil SALE,
BRET AGNES in cases
German Checks in do-
Cambrick
Piattiijas
Gold and silver Watches
Window Glass ig by 8
Glass Tumblers in cases
Linseed Oil in calks, &c. &c.
George Petinock,
103, High-Street.
J ul T 5- ' 3aw
Now Landing,
Jlt Pratt's tajharf
FROM on hoard the (hip Thomas Ch»lkley,
Capt. Kafer, from Bourdeaux,
C>AR£T in eafits
Ditto in cases
White Wine Virvegar
Ked Ss»ns in boxes
For Kale by
Ritndle Zff Leech.
May T,- 5
Will be Landed,
From onboard the ihip Active, Capt.Bi.viß,frqm
Hamhuigh,
TO bales '.vh'te Ruifia clean Hemp
a caiks Clover Seed
For Sale by
Thomas Herman Leuffer,
. NoitliFif.h flrcet, No. 34.
Tune j6. N
' r . (jo r 1 oN.
A fev/ fca'cs juft'arrived, for fate by
JOHN CLARK,
No. 55 North Watsr Street.
June 10. «>tf.
[Volume a I!,L AIL SON'S CIRCUSi
On 7 UESDAT next, july 18th.
FOR THE BKNEFIT OF
MR. COLLET,
LEADER OF THE BAND,
''IT/HO -relpoit fully allures the Ladies and Geft
tiemen of Phi ade! hia and it environs,
that his ultimate wilh, since his refidencc in this ci
ty, was ever to merit their,countenance and pro*
te&iofr, the continuance of which,on all occaficns,
rvijl he remembered with grateful sensibility.
The Equestrian Exhibition
Will open the performance of the evening, by the
introdu&ion t>f GRAND PARADE oi Eques
trian P>erformers of both sexes.
Masterly feats of Horsemanship,
&y Mr. Laiifon and his pupils, with the whimsical
feats of Mr Sully, in the character of clown.
Still Vaulting,
By MciTrs. Sully and Laiifon, wherein Mr. Laiifon
will perform ftveral furprifmg feat* as exhibited
at the French military school on the weod< n
horse ; such as>jumping over llie horse .as he
ftandj lengthways \
Mr. l-ailfon will introduce b'"s f«*vorite horse on the
PEDESTAL, in a pifturefque attitude, his
horse ilanding od three legs.
By define, willbe performed, the aftonifhirrg Lap
thiough the HOGSHEAD, by a horse and'his
rider on his back : with other Equftrian Feats
not particularized in the bills.
For that night only,
A COMBAT ON HORSEBACK,
With Broad-Swords and Pistols, before
presented ia America) by Meflrs. Collet and
Laiifon, in which Mr. Laiifon will introduce
the much admired manoeuvre of the
H O U L A N.
Lofty Tumbling,
By Mefltrs. Sully Reano, and M'Donald ; particu
larly Mr. Sully, in the a«slion ot turning in the
air eight feet high, will expand an Umbrella,
v The whole to concutfe (Ving the fe«cnd r presen
tation here) with the favorite and much admir
ed Hiilorical and Heroical Pantomime of
M I R Z A y L I ND O R;
Or, 7he Firjl Adventurers in America.
Interspersed with feiions and comic dances, a»
performed with unbounded ipplaufe at the
Grand Opera in Pyis. The Icenes, dresses
and decorations incident to the Pantomime
entirely new.
In the firft ail of the Pantomime Mr. Collet
will p'ay « beoutiful Concerto on the violin,
composed by the celebrated Violti.
Governor of Martinique, Mr. Pouble
An Englilh Officer, Mr. Jaymond
Officer and corporal of the guard By Amateurs
Maitre d'Hotel, Mr. Vieillard
trench Officers, Meflirs. Sully, Langley, Vande
velde, Laiifon, itc.
Lindor, colonel of French reg.) Mr. Douviljiers
Sailors and Savages by the reft of the company.
Six Negro Mtjfit ians, MefTrs. Sully, fen. Mar-
Savoye, Reano, Sec.
Elene, (the Governor's wife) Miss Tefleire
' Zoi, (Miria's servant) Mrs. Rowfcn
Mirza, Mrs. Douvilliers
A regiment of infantry. By Araatenr. of this city
Hired troops, By ditto.
Tickets t*i be had at the usual place, and of
Mr. Collet, at his Coffcc-houifc, at the cornef of the
Circus.
City of VVafhington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificent dwelling-house ao,ooo dollars,
k calh 30,000, are 5o,»oo
T ditto ij,ooo & c»ft 45,00e 40,00*
1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 Sl cafli 10,000 ao,ooo
1 ditto 5,000 & calh 5,000 10,00 c
1 ditto 5,000 k calh 5,000 10,000
t calh prize of 10,000
ado. 5,000 each,are • 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - jo, 00c
ao do. 500 - - io,®oc
00 do. 100 • • 10,000
too do. 50 10,000
400 do. *s ■" ' " io,oo»
1,000 do. ao y ao,ooo
15,00® do. to • 150,000
*6,739 Prizes.
33,a6l Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollari, 400,00n
N. B. Tofavour those who may take a quan
tity of Tickets,the prite of 40,000 dollars will be
the la st drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but one :
And approved notes, securing payment lb either
raon«y or prizes, in ten days atter drawing, will
be received for any number not less than 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen as
the private buildings to be ere3ed in th» City of
Wafliington—Two beautiful designs are already
icle&cd.for the entire fronts on two of thepubli'
squares; from these drawings it ispropofed to erefl
two centre and r our corner buildings as soon aspof
fible after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, ir;
the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduction of five per cent, will
be made to defray the necessary eipenfes of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National University, to
be erected within the eity of Wafliington.
The real securities given for the payment of the
Prizes, are held by the President and two DiretS
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount of the lottery.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
Tickets may be had at the Bank of Colsm
bh ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter
Gilman, Boston ; of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
and of Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry.
mwf
TO BE SOLD,
A valuable three story Brick House ;
SITUATE in Lodge aHey, next to the bank ef
Pennsylvania, the lot on which it stands, to
gether with the vacant lot adjoining, which ex
tends to Gciforth-ftreet. The house is about 50
feet in front en Lodge alley, and about 42 feet
in depth, the adjoining lot is about 96 feet
front on Lodge alley, and 4a feet on Goforth
ftreet, being a street which leads from Chefnut
ftreet and Carter's aHry into Doek-flrect al the
horse market. The house consists of ten lodg
ing rooms, with fix fire places, two dining
rooms, one of them forty feet in length, the
other about thirty-four feet, each containing
two fire places, two parlours and 3 large kit
chen, with extenlive cellars under, and garrets
over the whole, a privilege of a vacant lot
of ground to the eastward between this heufe
and the bank, a pump of excellent water in the
yard, a handsome piazza fronting the vacant
lot, and a frame liable and dwelling house on
Goforth-ftreet. The premises now rent for
£.318 per annum. To be fdU (fe/i of-.aifin
cunihrances.
1 For ;errns apply to John Clement StotAer.
April ao . 3*wt£
ikwWAiSi
NEW-YORK, J.% 13. r
We understand that a per fort came patten- a
gcr lately from Nantz, who is conceraed in t
most of the privateers fitted out from that
port. He is supposed to have come for in- t
formation refpefting American vessels about f
to fail, and is to return in a few days.— a
Merchants and others ought to attend to \
this. r
J ul Y H* I
Yesterday an elegant entertainment was
given to James Monroe, late minister pleni- 1
potentiary of the United States, near the re- 1
public of France, on his return to his coun- c
try, after a tedious and unthankful embassy, r
in which his abilities and influence were ex- (
erted to preserve a friendly and good nn- c
derftanding between the two republics.— \
This feftival was attended by a numerous
and refjje&able company of genuine repub
licans—General Horatio Gates in the
chair.
After dinner the following toasts were
drank, interspersed with various patriotic
and other songs :
TOASTS.
1. The People—May they know-their c
political omnipotent, but have occasion to
use it only in the reward of faithful services.
2. The United States and their Pr<ffi
dent. 1
3. The Vice-President of the United '
States. 3 cheers.
4. Public favor—May it unite with con
scious reflitude in weaving a garland for the '
man whose services have been treated with '
ingratitude., 6 cheers. '
5. Public Censure: Armed with the !
Spear of Ithuriel —may it discover the De- 1
mons of Tyranny wherever they lurk, and
pursue them with its whip of scorpions to
their native Hell.
6. Public Opinion—May it blast those
who flirink from its investigation.
7. Public Spirit—May it guide our Ex
ecutive, animate our councils, inspire the
fouls of our people, and only ascend to
heaven when no one is left on earth to la
ment its loss.
8. Public Gratitude—May its voice nev
er be drowned by the din bf national dis
cord.
9. The Republics of France, Batavia and
Lombardy.
10. May free governments become too
numerous to be toasted, and the present ge
neration leave the world without room sos a
new republic.
11. C'a Ira ! on the Irish Harp. 6
cheers.
12. The punishment of Tantalus to the
enemies of freedom—May they be surround
ed by its blessings, but never be able to taste
them. 3 cheers.
13. The American Flag—May the mo
dern law of nations once more make it re
fpe&able.
14. A speedy arrival to Kofciulko—May
the air of freedom cure the wounds he has
received in her defence. 3 cheers.
15. May the anniversary of to-morrow be
celebrated by all the Kings and Gaolers of
£urope.
16. May our country never be duped in
the cabinet by those who could not conquer
her in the field. 9 cheers.
VOLUNTEERS.
By General Gates.
Charles James Fox, and the patriots of-
England.
By James Monroe.
Perpetual union between the republics
of America and France. 3 cheers.
By Aaron Burr.
Suecefs to the efforts of republicanism
throughout the world.
By Edward Livingfton, after Gen. Gates
had retired.
The conqueror of Burgoyne, the repub
licanism of whose latter days (heds a lustre
over his former exploits.
By Mr. Martin, after he had retired.
James Monroe ; the virtuous citizen who,
to keep the peace of his country, delays to
dojuftice to himfelf. 9 cheers.
By Ebenezer Stevens, after he had retired.
Aaron Burr ; may those be supported in
ascending whose heads do not turn when
they are aloft.
By citizen, after he had retired.
Edward Livingfton ; the diftinguiftied
advocate of the rights of the people.
Ditto.
The members of Congress of '76.
By a citizen.
A speedy detection of the licensed spies
of Great-Britain.
Ditto.
May all traitors be detested and impar
tially punished.
St. JOHN'S, (Antigua) May 1.
The ship William, Captain Atkinfon,
from Lancaster and Cork, bound to this Is
land, has been taken and carried into Point
a Petre. She failed from Cork on the 14th
last, and on the 17th, 7. N. and long. 59,
30, W. in company with the (hip Betsey,
capt. Fleek, from Glasgow, fell in with 4
French privateer schooner of 10 guns, full
of men, mostly American, and commanded
by one Williams an American ; the priva
tefcr immediately attacked the Betsey, which
after some resistance struck, and was sent off
for Guadaloupe, after which an engagement
commenced between the William and the
privateer, and eontinuedfor five hours, when
the latter 1 was obliged to flieer off.
Next morning at day light, the William
fell in with another French privateer Hoop
called the Fox, of 8 guns and 95 men, this
island bearing W. S. W. distant 5 leagues
and engaged for two hours, when falling
calm, the privateer got under the William's
larboard quarter, and boarded her, in con
sequence of which, the Supercargo, and 3
men *pre killed, and one wounded, when
thsjvircre obliged to "strike—She arrived at
Point a. Petre the 22d inft.
So \erf near were the William and the
privateer to this island at the time the firm
er struck, that capt. Atkinfon attempted
to throw himfelf overboard as*! swim on
shore, but prevented by the engrtiy— 1
The William mounted 14 four pounders ]
and 30 men. Capt. Atkinfon arrived yd"-, 1
terday in the Walfingman. | <
* Williams we are informed, brought 1
this schooner from Baltimore, some time , 1
since* under French colours, and procured
a canyniffion at Guadaloupe. He aftswitn
with the utmost cruelty to the unfortunate
men whom the chance of war puts in his
power.-
A gentleman from the Weft Indies, who
lately had the misfortune to be taken by the
French, aflures us, that he is personally ac,
quainted with Williams, whose christian
name is Isaac, a native of Norwich, state of
Connefticut ; and that he has treated some
of his countrymen that fell into his hands
with the grcateft barbarity.
%t)t oaj
PHILADELPHIA,
MONDAY EVENING, July. 17.
*,* An interview is requested with the author
of the piece fign<;4 A Native AmtritOn."
MR. rENNO,
I request you would publish from the Au
rora a paragraph which appeared on Satur
day with the remarks following it.
From the Aurora.
In the war Speech of the President, he
fays, that it mufl not be permittedto be doubt
ed that the people and the government are one
and thefame. How contemptibly must that
man think of the American people who en
tertains such a sentiment ? The administra
tion are either the paifGns, or the tools of a
British faftion.
ERIWARKS.
The best principles of patriotism diftated
the sentiment which has cavil
ling. The nefarious faftion have labored
for years to persuade the people and rulers
of France that the enlightened citizen* of
the United States were difaffefted to the
administration of their own government. —
They told them so in the firft term of the
Prefideucyot the flluftrious Washington.
At the end of that term, thepeople UNA
NIMOUSLY re-elefted him, and though
this faftion know, that had Washington per
mitted, the people would have AG "IN
UN INIMOUSLTre-eleftedhim, yet they
continue their abuse, their falfehoods and
their lies. The people have elefted as the
SuccefTor of Washington, a man, who, fol
lowing the diftates of his own superior
judgment, and the almost universally expres
sed with of the people, has declared that he
shall pursue the system of his predeeefT r."
" How contemptibly must that man think
of the American people" who " doubts that
the government and the people are the fame ! "
This faftion does not doubt it—they know
it is a faft, they know that that the people
feel and realise the important truth. The
faftion despair of flirring up the people to'
destroy the work of their own hands, their
constitution, and with that, themselves.
They are therefore employing every artifice
to influence foreign powers to invade this
country. They write and publish and fend
their lies to France, that the people hate
what the faftion hate, the constitution and
the administration, and are tired of and dis
gusted with, the freedom, peace, and pros
perity they have so long enjoyed ! The fac
tion has no hope but from a foreign power.
Bachc fays " the administration are either
the patrons or the tools of a British faftion"
what jargon ! either the head or the tail. He
has repeatedly called the administration the
Faction itself. But who are the men
that compofethe administration ? They are
men who bore aftive and confpicuaus par.s
in that revolution which terminated in the
separation of this country from Great Bri
tain. This calumniator, then a child, was
imbibing those principles in France, which
are now exhibited in traducing the best men
'in America.
1o tht Editor of the Gazette of the United
States.
SIR,
The Chevalier d'Yrujo is much cen
sured in the Gazette of the United States of
Saturday last, by a writer who signs himfelf
Amti icanns, fer having publifhcd his letter to
the Secretary of State. If the crime is in
publishing, has not the government com
mitted this crime before him ? Have we
not seen published in all the newspapers,
with every mark of official authenticity, that
the conduft of the Spaniards demonstrates :
, " That they do, not mean to fulfill for an in
definite period the flipulations of the treaty
and also, " That there is jmuch reason to
believe, Mr. Ellicott's suspicions well found
ed, that an undue influence has been exercised
■ over the Indians, by the officers of his Catholic
: Majejly, to prepare them for a rupture with
the United States," &c. &c.
, Would the Chevalier d'Yrujo have fulfill
, ed the duties of his station, if he had fuffer
l ed these official and public attacks upon the
I good faith of his nation to have palled un-
I \ noticed ? Was it not'incumbent on him to
-! elucidate fafts and destroy conjeftures equal
-1 j ly injurious and unfounded,
f Americanus appears to have very extraor
t dinary ideas of equity and justice. On the
: one hand he does not censure the govern
-1 meni for making their attack public, thro'
the medium of the press; and on the other,
1 he is greatly scandalized, that the attack
j should be repelled with the fame weapon.
5 He goes further, by denying to those fo
-3 reign agents who come across the seas to
r promote the interest of the powers they re
-5 present, the right to defend themselves when
- attacked, in a manner not refufed to any in
| dividual in the United States. A man with
» such principles, if he be an American, must;
t be an Anglo-American.
The plain state of the cafe is this. The
: Chevalier d'Yrujo, and the Sovereign, whg/e
■ interests he is sent to promote, have been
1 publicly and severely stigmatized: Why
1 should he be denied the use of the press to
repel an attack through the medium of the r
press ? The faft is, Sir, that those who c
for certain ends are in the habit of acting in t
darkness, dread the light that may be thrown i
upon their machinations by the torch of :
truth. '
It is true, that in countries where the i
press ia not as f.ee as it is here, and where
the people have no fh'are in the government i
it is not usual to give publicity to diploma
tic correfporidencies ; yet there are instances,
even with the monarchies of Europe, in
which considerable publicity has been given
in these matters. In the cafe of Armfeldt,
copies of the correspondence between Na
ples and Sweden were profufely distributed
to powers belonging to the diplomatic corps '
in both countries ; and it was finally printed 1
in the freer countries and published to the
world.
But we are not to look to Europe to jus- <
tify the propriety of publicity, in all go
vernmental concerns, in this country. Here
the government is the'creature of the peo
ple, of course public opinion has prodigious
weight; and if any branch of the public
functionaries attempt to make, by means of
the press, an impfeffion upon the public
mind, injurious to the charafte r and interests
of a friendly foreign nation, it is not only
the right, but it must be the duty of the
representative of that nation to repel the at
tempt in the only way it can be met, —also
thro' the medium of the press.
This is what the Chevalier d'Yrujo has
done. The conduct of the government of
Spain has been attacked -officially and by
printing, and he has -defended the govern
ment of Spain officially and by printing. I f
in doing this he' has misrepresented fails,
and has not supported them by fufficient do
cuments, let it be (hewn ; or if his deduc
tions from them are falfe, let their fallacy
be exposed ; but in this free country let it
notbe faidj that the press (hall be a weapon
of attack only, and not of defence ; aone
but an Ar.glo-American could maintain such
adoftrinc. VERUS.
By this day's Mail.
NEW YORK, July 15.
More Harmless Duelling.
Notwithstanding the recess of Congress
this amufeihent continues im fafhion, if we
may believe the following information from
Hartford, which dates,
That a few days since, a challenge was
sent by Mr. Collins, of the' Old American
Company, to Mr. Cro(by of the fame com
pany; all was in readiness for procedingto
execution, when the magistrates interposed,
and took the combatants into custody.
The challenger is said to have been tried,
and sentenced to a fine of 3000 dollars, and
one year's imprisonment.
BALTIMORE, July 12.
Extra ft of a letter from Holland, April 23,
1797.
" But there appears to prevail at present
. a design still more pernicious, as it strikes
: direftly at our national union. From the
i I present conduft of the direftory, it cannot
[ \ be questioned, that they are determined up
; ! on a war with the government of the United
1 States. There are also numerous proofs in
■ in the prosecution of this war ; they are pre
■ paring to derive support from a part of the
. American people. The policy upon which
they proceed, appears to be this; that the
- Atlantic, or at least the eaftem Rates, can
' not be governed by the influence -of France,
; ; and therefore, that a southern republic must
; . be formed, in alliance with France, to ferye
1 as a balance against the others ; but iti order
: to foim this republic, France liirift makr
j war against the present government of the
: United States, in the progress of which she
• can fend an army to fopport and assist her
s allies of the new republic, and hereby they
1 will effeft two purposes at once; that of"
1 weakening by division a rising powfcr which
they behold with suspicion and jealousy ; and'
that of disencumbering themselves from a
I considerable portion of the army, the return
of which into France they already dread.
They wish to form a republic in America,
. they are now forming a republic in Italy,
F to provide for the fubiillence of their troops,
r or at least to be themselves rid ps them-—and
> thus you will observe that tlvey step tofcvards
1 war with America, regularly as they step
. towards peace with the house of Austria ;
; they are constantly in expeftation of this
peace, and it will probably be made in the
: course of this ipring or the following sum
mer.
" In one of my letters I wrote that they
' had no idea of fending an army to America,
) and I formed my opinion from the state of
. their marine, and the impoffilnlity they were
! under of restoring it for a long time. But
- various circumlfances now lead me to a dif
) ferent and with refpeft to the ma
rine, they are preparing to turn their exer
. tion towards it, as may be ccllefted clearly
. from the pamphlet of Theremin, which I sent
; you a few days ago."
[ FREDERICK-TOWN, (M.) July 5.
. Extra 3 of a letter from a gentleman at Phila
delphia, dated June 27, 1797*
" No doubt remains of peace havingtaken
; 'place between France and Austria, and I
. hope a peace between France and England
' will immediately follow, for we (hall never
, get right until the event happens.
" The Britlfh nation is in a situation that
will produce important events if a speedy
peace should not take place. The mutiny
in their fleet must be very alarming, and I
have no expeftation that discipline
reftcred during, the war. Their finances are
far from being in a good way; and I, for
i some time, have entertained no doubt of
t their enormious debt, sooner or later, bear
ing them down. The continuance of the
; war would certainly haflen that event. In
• deed a}l Europe mtift continue in an unfet
-1 tied condition for some time after peace is
, agreed on, and we shall certainly derive ad
) vantageous from it, in point of wealth, if we
manage cur affairs with wisdom and pru
dence enough to induce foreigners to fend
their property here: however I am no advocate
for foreigners being admitted to become citi- i
zeris on the easy terms they have heretofore
been indulged in. We' have already expe
rienced great inconveniences from fuffering
people of all natipnsbecoming citizensbefore
they have resided long enough in the coun
try to give them a warm affe£tion for its
permanent intereits.
From " The Rights of Man'"'.
AQUERE!
Whether Mr. Jefferfon did fay, since lie
has taken his present position that " it was
" the intention of Mr. Adams (the Prefi
" dent) and his party, oh the call of Con
" grefs, to declare war against France if
" there had been arefpe&able majority"—
or, whether he had indubitable authority for
it, if he did fay so, is not fatisfaftorily as
certained,—Report fays, two gentlemen of
refpeftability in George-Town, lately aver
red that Major F -told them he had
received a letter from Mr. jefferfon since he
went to Philadelphia, containing the above
sentiments.
Report also fays, however, that a third
gentleman, equally refpeftable, declared,
when he heard it mentioned in company,
that the letter was (hewn, by Mr. F ,
in confidence, and that the above sentence was
not in it; but that it was an improper let
ter.
As the solution of this question may be
gratifying to the citizens at large, at the pre
sent interesting erifis, the investigation is
humbly submitted to Peter Porcupine, Mr.
Bache, and other Critics.
It is supposed that the names of the with
in mentioned gentlemen might readily be had
if necessary. CITIZEN.
Frederick, (Anniversary of Independence) '97.
NOW LANDING,
At HAMILTON'S WHARF,
AMD rOK SALE Bl' v
Edward BfoNxrtr,
No* 149 South Front-flrect,
The Cargfb of rht Snow Liberty, direct from Bour
dealix, viz.
76 pipes of hig;h proof ,• well flavored Brandy
300 cases ol superior Red Wine, fit for the Eafl
India market.
He has 011 hand,
A few calks ol Porter in bottles, Sper
maceti Candles in boxes, and a £ew package* of
Calcutta Goo-^.
For Sale, Freight, or Charter,
THE AID SNOW
John Wallace, Commander ;
t> ■■»... Hu'thtn between between 13 atld
1400 bbls. in complete order. Apply as above.
July IT. ■, f.3t
For Sale,
The noted faft failing Schooner
William £sf Sarah,
BUR i Hi*Nupwards of seven
hundred barrels, just ar-ived
from Jamaica, and Jying at Chefnut-ftseet whasf.
This vessel w ©n4y nine monthsoM, is well equip
ped in all refpe&s, is burthenfome and well con
lirudled for a Weft India trader. A pply to
Joseph Anthony &■ Co.
Who have for Sale, now landing f rest en hoard
said Schooner,
High proof well flavored Jamaica Spirits, Sugwj
of th fiift quality,a few bags Coffee und Pimento.
fn , 1 diw
ItltidtlpiHU. istb jaly, J J') 7.
NQTICE-is hereby given, that separate pro
pofils with IV2led covers, w ill be reecived
at my office until the eleventh day of September
next, to furnilh by contrail the following ar
ticles fpr the use of rhe Army of the United
States: in the year 1798-
First ContraiA for
8 Sergeants coats 1
2 -lufi ian3, do. |
10 Sergeants veils £ Di lgoons.
126 Pirv-tes coatfc nw '|
126 Privates vests
64 Sergeants coats
32 Mnfinans, do. , -
96 Serjeants vests '
19* WOl ten overalls ArtiHerifts
192 Linew overall* &
936 Privates coats Engineers.
936 do. veils
187* Woolen ov«ral!s
1872 Linen do.
144 Sergeants coats
' 72 Musicians, do.
2>6 Sergeants vests
432 Linen overalls
432 Woolen do. Infantry.
>893 privates coats
1892 do. vests
3784 Woolen overalls
3784 Linen do.
ift Contrail, for 1288 Sergeaßts fliirtl
11816 Privates do.
12600 (Socks
2<d Contrail, for 272 pair leather brctclifcs
■ 3d Contrail, fur 272 pair boots
4600 pair (hoes, No. I
Bcco pair do. No. a
4th Contrail, for 1031 ArtiHerifts and Engi
neers hats
1108 Infantry do.
136 Dragoon caps
■ The whole to be delivered at the city of Phila
delphia, viz.
One fourth on or before the 15th day of Fe
bruary Bext.
One fourth on or before the 15th day of A
prll hext.
The remaining half on 0£ before the 15 th day
of June next.
1 The articles are to be agreeable to such pat
terns as lhall be dife£le<i£y the Secretary for the
| Department of War.
Payments to be inade as soon as the articles
fhal.l be delivered, and pa (Ted infpeilion.
TENCH FRANCIS, Purveyor.
■ eotntliStj). t
Philadelphia Alms-H'iufe,
11 th July , 1797.
THE Managers of this Inftitutio.i, anxious to
" promote the necessary accommodations and relief
of the Tick and afHi<fted Poor therein, wish to ap
point five refpe&aMe, w«ll recommended women,
1 luitaffiy qualified to a& as Nurses, in the Teveral
. wards or apartments, where i'uehnhay be neceflary.
For which purpoCe, oiFers or propofak, accom
panied with J'uitable recommendations in writing,
v. ill be reci ived here on or before Satui day, sth.
Augud enfuirig.
5 By or 'er of tHe board of' Managers.
JOHN' CUMMINGS, Steward.
July r y ' *jtAs
ik "■ »"• ' ' v 'sale oj Madeira J'Vtne.
"* 0 3t lo "'' lock on Thurfdav
VV morning, the 10th instant, at No. 108
South Water-ltreet, for approved endorsed notJS
at 60 and 9 c days,
40 PIPES OF LONDON PARTICULAR
Madeira Wine,
Old and fit for immediate use.
JOHN CONNELLY, Auctioneer.
J"iy '7
Wanted in a Private Family,
ASready ftviddle aged Woman, ia the capacity
of an Houfekeiper, and to render other rca
fooable services. Sobriety, integrity, and mildness
, of temper, are inilifpcnfable recommendations,
without which none need apply.
Alfoy for Sale 9
Eleven years of the time of an indented servant
Girl, who is good tempered, i'mart, a&iveandufe
* pply at this office.
J lt] y *7- f 3 t
20 hbds. of New England Rum,
FOR SALE BY
Samuel Br»ck,jun.
No- S9, South Third-frreet.
July «4. «o6t
New Hat and Hosiery Store.
Jn/l Importrd,
lit thefiipi William Penn and Star, from London, and
now opening by
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL, |
AT his new Hat and Kofiery Store, No. 134, '
Market street
- An elegant assortment of Clk, cotton anJ thread
Stockings
Silk, cotton and thread Gloves
Pantaloons, Scc/kc.
Likewise, ahandfome afTortment of men's, wo
men's, and children'sf&fhionable Hats, fuitablc for
the Season.
A co'.ilHeraMe quantity of low and middle priced
Hats alforted in cases, intended for country flares.
• M*y lj. taw
A New Work.
PROPOSALS"
For printing and publishing, by fubfcriptioa, The
History of Pennsylvania,
IN North-America, from the original inftitutioa and.
fettlrment of that province, under the Hr(t propri
etor and governor Wuiiau Pus, in 1681, 'till
after the year 1745; with
A. N IN IRODUCTION
Refpefiing the Life,of w.PENN,
Prior to rtieg'ant of that Province, and the reli
gion* S'iciety of the people called Quakers; with Kite
FIRST RISE of the NEIGHBORINGCOLONIES,
mure particularly of WEST-NEW JERSEY, and the
Settlement of the DUTCH and SWEDES or. DELA
WARE.
To which itadded,
• A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SAID PRO
VINCE.
And of the general (late, in which it 'flourifhed,
prine ; pally between the years 1766 and 1770. Tlie
whole including a variety of things, ufeful and in- (
terefting to be known, refptfling that country inearly "
time, &c. With an appendix. r
Written principally between the yeart 1 776 and >7BO, '
By Robskt Pkovd. .
" Pu/c/irum eft benejacercrtipMica, ttiam brnedicrre
hmd aijutdumji, vel pace vet betlo durum fiei i licet.'' J
>aj. Caialin, i
"Sedcum pltrijue arbitrentur res beUicai major e t eft r
pian urbanas, mintindacli hoc opinio."
Cic. Off.
( according to law.) ®
„ " WI.LIAM PENN, the great legislator of the F
Qu.lk.crl, (in Prnnfylv nia) had the suCcess of a con- v
queror, in efabfifhing and defending his colony, a. .
mong favagc tribes, without ever drawing thefword ;
the goodnela of the most benevolent ruteri, in trea- a
Ittij hfifubjefl jas hli ownchildrcn ; and the tender- t]
nefsof an universal father, who opened his arms to c
all mankind without diftmSion oiled or party. In ,
his Republic it was not his religious creed, but per
sonal merit, that entitled every member of focicty to C'
the proteflio» and emolument of the State-" O
EJajon 'Tdtrtti'fn, by Arthur O'Letry. <1
CONDITIONS.
I. This work will be printed in two ofiavo vol- P
umes, neatly bound and letteied, both in sheep and "■
calf, for the choice of the fubferihets; op paper fimi- ir
lartothatof the conditions, as publi[kcd in tkeSubtctib
• tion papers. ai
11. The head of William Penn, handsomely en- l* l
graved, will be prefixed to the firft, and a map or
fletch of Pennsylvania, and the parts adjacent, to the
Jecnnd volume.
Ill* 1 he price to fttbfcribers will be four dollars
•nd an half in Iheejs, and five dollars in calfone
dollar to be paid at the time of fubfetibing, two dol
lars on the dehvery of the fiift volume, and the re
mainder on the delivery of thfc second. S]
IV. When one thousand copies ate ftibferibed Si
for, the work will be dui to press and finifhed with R
all conven ent expedition.
. Subfcripttons wrll be received by Zschaiiih Poul
fon, jun Printer, Nb. 80, Cheluut-ffreet, and at the
Philadelphia Library in Fifth-ftreet by Isaac Col- N
lin* Printsr, and Jifeph James, Merchant, New. 0
»°rk; by J ihn P. Pleafantsand Giorge W. Field,
Merchants. Baltimore; and by other pcrlons both
,n towa and country*
Fcbrua.y >B. . tu&f
_• 1 _L . . _ T
Bank of North America. si
July I, 1^97.
At a meeting: ofthe Diretflors this day, a di
' »idend of Six Per Cent, was declared for the
lalt half year, which will b« paid to the Stock
holders or their representatives, at any time af
ter the loth inft.
July '• d*w. Sh
Valuable Public Document. Br
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
And for Sale
At the Office of the Editor ofthe Gazette of the
. . United States,
No ii 9 Chelnut-Street,
[PIICI ONE HOLLAR AND TITTY CINTs]
A FEW COPIES OF THE gel
Heceipts and Expenditures Sd
OP THE UNITED STATES,
For the Year 1795, —
Being the Latest Period to which an account
oan be made up. p .
February t*. $. '
*'° r Sale, the
At the Ofliee of the Gazette of the United ,
States, No- ny, Chefnut-flreet, „
Tbf laji Report of the late Secretary
of the Treasury; being"* brief history of the f • ;
state of financial woncerns of the United States. , i
TRe Proceedings of the Executive ; ' or ~
gf the United States refpetfling the weflcrn in- j r .
fnrretlion : Containing many faiils and cir
cumstances no where else to tie found. 50
cents. 1 belo
lhe Letter of Mr. Pickering to C
cur minister in France. 371-1 cents. anle
An Account of the Receipts and P° rt '
Expenditures of the United States for the year ,
I?? 'j- ; br ? u
A fev copies of the volnme for may be only,
had to complete setts. leavii
X)'lvernois'account of the Revo- the j
lution in Geneva. i-» cents. J difmi
irfday
'•J°s PHILADELPHIA,
MONDAY EVENING, Jvir 17. '
Ths following extraof a letter from Cap e
Francois, demon ft rates the falfity of the
cr. information pretended to be received from
the fame place by General Smith, that
Santhonax and Co. had left off - their
» piracy.
pr.city AUTHENTIC.
Idncfs E xtra fl "f a letter from an American gentleman,
ttions, dated Cape Francois, June, '97.
" The Commiflion still continue to con
demn our vcfiels, captured going to or co
rvant ming from Britift ports ; and indeed some-
j tin\es going to French ports, as in the cafe
! ofMr - Anthony Butler's vessel of Philadel
n, French port with a recommendatory letter
from Mr. Letomb the Consul General. She
was nevertheless condemned."
6t Monday the 10th tnjl. between the hours
__ of 12 and I o'clock at night, a Jlorc, the pro
perty of Mr. Edmund Brewer, at Cheefman's
Landing, Timber Creek, Netv-Jerfey, <was
, and Jl ruc & with Lightening, which entirely consum
ed the fame, together with all-his property, i
i j boots, notes, bonds, &c. Thus this gentle- !
134, f an ' s entire properly, the fruit of unwearied 1
indujlry, and the labour of a series of years, -
tread was fy a J) ro^e which no human effort could i
avert, in one moment utterly deflroyed. [ t
wo We h ave received by th« Liberty, from Bour- t
c for deaux,a feriesofpapers printed there under the curi- J
out title of " Journal des Jeurneaux," to May 10. j
riced So "! e eurioni ("peculation-, are.costs itifd in tnrm on 1 .
ores, the internal affairs of the country ; such of'thefe '
taw as arc inurefting. shall be occasionally deiailtd 1
—— In the paper of May 10, the following picture v
of France is given, fn an efrail from a potm by' 7
M. Lebrun, entitled " Lr< J'ai VU i" ' c
_, J'ai VU mille et oiille injufticck; . k
e Jai vu peu de vertus j'ai vu beauceup de vices::
13 VU eauc ® u P d'affrcux et ppu
' A nos foupirs j'ai vu le ciel etre inflexible;
3nd Le» mortels endurcts meconnoitre les dieux ; c,
'■till difcorde mftrnalc armer le bras terrible', *"
Et des ufilrpateurs, et des ambitieux.
' • • • •.'!!!!.'!.'.'.'.'
reli. J'ai vu la pudeur exilfe,
'••e Le merite fans protecleur,
'ES, I.a plus faintc foi violee,
| l ' le Et 1« bon droit fans defenfeur. c
L A. * »
Extraft of a letter from St. John's, New
tO- foundland, dated the 22d of May. to a c
person in Norfolk.
" I had ihe misfortune to let dne of my q
in! out-houfes, last fall, to two soldiers, who (it
■rly appears) had been in the habit of Healing p
gunpowder, from the magazine at Fort- c
B°. Townfend. On the 13 of February last,
about ten o'clock at night, as they were p
drying some part of it that had been wet; c
it catched fire and made a most dreadful ex- d'
'/« plosion, which entirely demoliflied the buil- c'
ding they occupied, and carried away one r> C
of the chimnies of my dwelfinghoufe, and s '
the part of the other; it also tore away the C
>"• whole of my back porch, and tore to pieces
d *T the beds, See. in one of my rooms up stairs, R
ea. and broke all my windows. But the fate of
er- the unfortunate tenants with whom tfie ac- a
j° ci'dent happened it still more melancholy,— na
, r . three women and two children were entirely r)
to consumed, one of the men was found dead
on the spot where the house itood, the other 311
1 still survives, a most wretched, miserable and t( "
al . pitiable objea. Thanks forever to the Al- R]
nd mighty Disposer of Events, whose merciful £
i'- intervention only could have saved us at that
lp ~ awful moment—my family all escaped un- g -
n- hurt. ' cot
or , '*[
he GAZETTE MARINE LIST. Se.
n" Pom of Philadelphia. '
1- - - 1
e- . arrived. days, riet
Ship Huldy, Warner, New York 4
:d Snow Liberty, Wallace, Bourdeaux 57
lh Brig Experiment, Dolby, Cape Ni
l. _ chola Mole 17
ie Aftive, Cook, Cape Nicho Mole 17 p
I- Nymph, Webb, do. do. Q-
J' Schr. William and Sarah, Widdifield, ' w ;.
h Jamaica, and do. 17 1 c
John, Wafs, Boston 9 th?
Amy, Mann, Cape Francois 13
Ann, Hall, returned in distress taki
Sloop Nancy, Denyke, Richmond 13 Mo
Three Sifters, Smith, N. \ ork 6 boa
Fanny, Bridger, Dunn, do. 6 i(h f
Sloop Rambler, Sturges, do. 6 p o li
Briton, Bowler, Rhode Jfland 9 no f
CLEARED.
Ship Sooth Carolina, Garman, Charleston J
Swift, Packet..Gribbin, Savannah 36,
Brig Grace, Wells, Amsterdam ton',
Isabella and Ann, Keen, St. Thomas's out
Sally, Hampton, St. Bartholomew's f en g
Elizabeth, Fullerton, St. Croix the"
James, Frith, New-York 35,
Maria, Henderfon, Charleston mo r<
New-York Packet, Strong, do. mor(
Schr. Little Fanny, Cox, St. Croix pa sTe
Schr. Harmony, Coffin, Boston U j,
Tryal, Hand, Alexandria the 1
Dolphin, Tice, do. boun
Jupiter, Burbank, New-York
Polly and Sally, Smith, Rinhmond A
Two French privateers, are cruising off verpr
the Capes of Delaware, one to the north
ward, the other to the So uthward. Ca
The Experiment, Dolby, parted com- our !a
pany with the brig Adure, Cook, of and Fra'pl
for this port from the Mole, on Monday j llne
last—the brig Nymph, Webb, also for this Potte
port, left the convoy the convoy the second Bri >
day'after failing from the Mole. Peter,
A ship, 4 brigs, and two fehooners are Brijj
be l° w - 29—1
Capt. Mann left at Cape Francois the a,;d w
fame vessels belonging to this port as re- 16, in
ported by capt. Parsons on the sth inft. and boirdt
the schooner Harriot, , of this port, ofwli:
brought in as a prize under French colonrs John
only, on the 26rh ult. Four hours after j and 3
leaving the Cape the Amy was boarded by | N. lor
the James, BritiA frigate, examined and' Frencl
dismissed, 4 men of war in company. July Capt
—7» spoke the Hup Cogfgi'ove, i out 72
days from Bourdeaux, for Charleston.
The supercargo of the brig Adtive, Cook,
from the. Mole, informs, that a Court of
Admiralty is cftablifhed there, for the trial
17, ' of prizes, md' that the following veflels from
the United States vvere on trial the 26th
n Cap 0 ult. at Port-au-Prince.
of the Schr. Felicity, Cowperthwait, of Phila
d from dclphia
1, that Farnham, Hutchins, do.
«their Brig Nancy, Stanton, do.
Greenfield. Stevenson, New-York
Schr. Telegraph; GouM, Baltimore
tleman, Alice, Rider, Boston
97> Elizabeth, Lang
.0 con- Sally, Coufale
or co- Sloop James, Palmer, New-York
some- Huldah, Mills', Norfolk
ie cafe At the Mole,
liladel- Brig Two Sifters, Sbaw, Philadelphia
i to a Betsy, Smith, \ do.
■ letter Betsey, Art, do.
1. She Schr. patuxent, Harrifon, Charleston
Nancy, Hands ••
Treaty, Burns, Boston
e hours Perseverance, Burns
he pro- Betsy, Burr, R, If] a nd
[man's Elizabeth, Frazier, Baltimore
, was Pilot Boat, Hopkins,
onfum- Polly, Hands,
operty, Sloqp Pattern, Young, Baltimore
gentle- ! Capt. Cook informs, that the sloop Sal
learied ly, Bushel, of this port, was cut out of the
years, Platform, on the 30th ult. by the British
' could armed fchponer Marie Antonietta, and that
! the Sally parted from the fleet in a squall j
.f ' the'fame night. On Monday last, spoke
Bour-; the Harmony, Nichols, out 24
ie cur.- hours from hence to Aux-Caye9.
! . Th ;' schooner Hope, Parsons, master,
r these failed from the Cape Francois June 21 ft, j
1 191 > an d left - there the following veflel, J
?]4ture ' viz.
f , m b X Brig Delaware Dumphey, Philadelphia
Schr. Delight, Butler, .. - do
res: _ Amy Mann, - do I
ib j eta j Brig Chance, Turner, Baltimore '
; - Fanny, Atkinfon, do j 1
Schr. Miraculous Pitcher, Butler do I ]
Nymph, M'Reim'an do
Shepherdess, Gicfe [do J;
' . Beaufort, LiddJe do n
Betsey, Boyd d 6 j c
!:am Lovell, Hill Frederickfburg I r
Sloop '1 Ann, Taylor do la
\Tp__ , ' rmoiiy, Chafe Amfbury l v
to a Sjilly B. Balford Waftiington, N.C. I i
Thetis Cameran Charleston, (prize, p
f m condemned and fold) y
0 ./ Schr. Venus, Perkins Charlfton a
,i-L Liberty, Barns do ii
7 ort- Bng Abl '? a "> ' New York ii
last Schr. Delight, Rhodes Khode I(land Ifi
were • Nanc y» ' do n
vet • Adventure, Thornton do c
| ex! Schr. Lucy, Harvey Boston tl
buil- Bng Fannc y» Smlth Salem t<
one Bc !' r - Greenwood do S
and Bng Geor^ia Pnckct > Reynolds Pkila. a
t j |( , Schr. Nancy, Johnson Baltimore ir
cces Pe ggy» Cooper - Norfolk w
a ; rs June 19th, afchooner from Boston, capt. I aj
tcof Ro & crstal f: a ] >Y.z frigate in fight of the al
, HC _ harbour, and.CiiW to the Mole—also a brig in
" name unkno.vrn. I tl
r ' e i v T' ne snow Thetis, captain Camtran, of fe
le-iil Charleston, from ; Maderia,prize, condemned ti;
ther and purchased by John Freace of Charles- bt
and * • Inc
Al- The schooner Betsey, Burr, of and from (i
ifiii Rhode to . Leogane, was taken by a an
i nt French privateer, and reUiken by the En-1 in
un . captain at prefettt in Cape'Fran- ra
cois, with. a pafiport to go and look for his hii
vcffeL . - ;c- v■ ~ f u
The fclioonerFranklin, captain Cble,irom ft;
Stnnagal tp.Havannjib, carr.'cd.iftto Monte [ to:
- ; Chrifti, and condemned.; ' i.frc
The (hip Riling Sua, of Charleston, car- of
YS " ried into Port de I'aix and condemned. j th;
4 The barque Neptune, ©'Conner, from ho
57 -'w York to Jamaica, carried into Port de Ico
1 and condemned. «■ I thi
1 7 " e day captain Ptrfons failed from Cape vei
1 7 F- is was boarded by the British frigate wi
C' c captain James BifTett, treated me am
J w."h ijoliiftnefs, arid difmifted me. . an<
l 1 1 fame day a.small fehooner, called the
9 th? Elizabeth, captain£olyman Frazier, for res
1 3 Baltimore, was boarded by the above frigate, the
taken in tow, and carried to Cape-Nicola wil
1 3 Mole, with Commodore Barney's son on not
6 board. June 23, was boarded by two Brit- ofi
' ifti frigates, examined and discharged with ten
' politeneis. Weft India produce very high, .wh
9 no sale for American produce. inf<
The J'noyj Liberty, capt., Wallace, yot
on June 10, 1797, in lat. 40, 59, N. long- thii
a 3?> - spoke the brig Nancy of Bos- dif<
™ ton, capt. Philips from Cadiz, for Boston, virt
s ; s out 28 days. Capt. Wall Bart who,was pas- attc
s fenger on board the said brig,came pn board me,
"* the br 'g Liberty. July ill, in lat, 38, and
rk 35, N. long. 67, u, W. spoke a Balti- the
more ship from Liverpool, bound for Bal- tern
more, out 38 days, having a number of nati
'X paflengers pn bpard. July 4th, in lat. cha
39> 45> b y account long. 67,. 1.5, spoke aVo'i
13 the brig Sally, Dawfon, cf Philadelphia, aCit:
bpund fpr Hamburgh, . .■ nevi
k New-York, July 15. bett
<1 Arrived, Sliip. Minerva, Holbrpek, Li- ing
ff verpool, 69 days. , .... . on a
L.ipt.. r.int. arrived, since nity
- our last. Sailed in company with the fchr. ever
tl Franklin, Cox, for Phil "?e}phia, Left there, tanc
V June 11, (hip I'nion, Benfttv, buig Sally, neve
s Potter, and fc/ig Peace, cf Providence; acqt
1 lnduttry, % Und'that
Peter, SjtearrnaE, of tfofton,to fail.fooii.— nads
* Fame, I'ildeji y'bf Boston,. arrived M»y oft]
29 —fchr. Star, I, ir tie, of db. ariiyed June 10,
: and was to fail in »Vdiys foi June
■ 16, in lat. 15, jo, N. long jfj 40, W Was j
I boirded by a French t'iie captain
. of which informed, that he had captured Capt
■ ! John Somes, fiom DemerSra bound to C. Ann •
"1 and 3 other Prizes. June 18, in lat. ig ; n,o.
IN. long 59.40, W. was boarded by aaother.' fV
French Privateer—on board of which was " 3
Capt John Wright, who was captured June
t72 13, in a fctooner ef.and fora Haltfai., bound
for A'ntigua—withiwo or three Americans,
jok, but not being allowed any communication,
t of could not learn who they were or wheie
trial from.
Rom ' 1
, 6th , " 1 ' "'>•
From the VIRG INIA GAZETTE, &c
Col, SAMUEL J. CABELL.
phia J
K SIR, . ,
HAVING seen your furitius letter of the
ork ■3 1 May, addrcfled to .your fellow riti
lore Z^n ®' w ' l ' c ' l y 6 " express so. much refmt
fton mem anc ' •■dignaticj} against the presentment
of the federal grand jury ; and having hid
th? honor (whatever you
ork being one °f that body myfeJf,T was premp-
Folk tcci an inclination, whish 1 could not easily
wfifl, of taking some little notice of that ex.
ihia traord;nar y epift'e ; though 1 was well perfuv
ded at the fame time, that treating it with a
contemptuous silence would-have Lee it the
lon - I
fy and pitiful a produftion to iis merited 1
ton ob!ivion - . . :
I by no means intend to enter into a po- ,
and litical difcuflipn with you, relative to the (
ore propriety or legality of the presentment ,
which you complain of with so much„ acri
mony ; butjuft simply 'to observe, that it is ;
ore owing to such worthies as you are, and to c
!al- those turbulent and inflammatory profile- a
the tions, which you, and thole of your politi- r
ifh [ cal complexion, aretheauthorsbf,anyofthat j
bat the people of the United States are opposed j t
lall |to their government, and that in the event l c
ike of a rupture between the two republics, a a
24 j considerable part of our country men would t
declare in their favor ; and also to observe, t
er, ! that it is from their viewing us as thus ppli
ft, j tically circuriiftanced, that they have dared tl
el, jto ir.fult us in a manner that stands unri- 0
yalled in the aimals of the proudest and "
lia haughtiest monarchies. £
You ought, I humbly conceive, Sir, as a ®!
iover of your country, and as a member of „
re the general legislature, to whom your confti- u
j tuents have'entru fted a portion of their hap'- o
I pinefs, to. have employed every means, (cf- ■»'
I pecially as we have but two marry reasons to &
j apprehend entering into a wai) in uniting ie
I your fellow citizens together'in the defence
1 of their common country, tfifeir lives, their 1 P
liberty, and all that can be dear to them as
•g I men. But instead of promoting so neceflary ! ?
and salutary an end, and one so much to be '
y| wished for by eviery -worthy and virtuous '
I American, you have been indtiftrioufly em- j m
■, ployed in taking every step that appeared to 1 , ca
) you as most likely to counteraft it, both by ' u
n attempting to render the government odious j- Jt
I in the eyes of the people, and by endeavour- j 0
k ing to alienate theit Confidence and affedtion I 111
d from that great and good man, who admi- j
niftered it, and also by reprtfenting his fuc- ! r°
I ceilor as inimical to the interest and cause of V:
n the French nation; and consequently hostile
n to the general principle of republicanism. ,
Surely such conduct tends not only to create
. a foreign influence among us, but likewise tp .
e I invite the French to make war upon us, eit
v with every afTiirance of meeting with the
. approbation and good wilbes of a Consider- ca
e able proportion of pur countrymen. View
r I i'ug yon then in this'light, and as guilty of .
those charges, is there any man,in his sober
f senses, who has difce'rntnent rjnough to dif-
1 tinguilh between the incendiaryand th« firm, to '
- I but peaceful lover of bis country, who dues ru '
not abhor you as a traitor ?'"Yoar patriotism alr
1 (if it is not an aßufe of terrrrs to call it „
1 j and your writings-border on {he wild aitrl
■ incoherent ravings of a madman—and you
■ rather resemble the fury Aleflo, fcatteriiig arK
> j his feeds of jeal'oufy, inftirreftiori, and con
| rufion, over this happy land, tjian the able
1 j statesman, or the wife and beneficent legifla
j tor. It was for those reasons, Sir. and not f
l -from the-delire oflefitning the independence l ' C i
of private-opinion, a3 you afFed to believe, vu
that I determined befort I set out from ' °
home, to' have you presented if I possibly ra
I could : and U fottnd that every member of U . °'
the grand jury, with, whom T had any con-?' p pr. r
verfatioh t)n the fnbjeft exaftly coincided ' l!
with me in fentiraent, that you were a fit !, e
j and proper objeftto come und.crtbe cogniz- '''
ance as a fedtral granil jury ; consequently, 1
the inference, that the presentment was the
result of the charge, which was delivered by n " r
the judges, is entirely founded iq error. F W S
will tell you more Mr. Cabell—there was ari
not one dHTentient opinion among the whole a .
ofthe jury; and that it wSsowjiig to the r
tenderness of one of the only two foreigners
.who served on it, the word unanimous was not V J " c
inserted in the presentment. I will also tell 1
you another thing. Sir, that you muil not
think of imposing npon the goo 4 sense and
difcernmentofAmericansbythetinfelglareof ,°*J
virtue and patriotism with which you in vain , lc .
attempt to blind them. The veil, believe '
me, is too thinly spread to conceal you ; r
and such conduit as you pursue, serves but
the more to expose yoti to obloquy and con
i tempt. You accuse usof dreading the French
nation ; but I am of opinion, were : this
charge founded in truth; "we 'should jhave
avoided your'cenhire : 1 that to have
aCied confifLently fears,' wt fljould
never have prefented\yb'u loving fhem or, by
better than -your own e^ifntry-,'' and folr be- fpfe?
ing so abjeft and readyj up
all'©ciafions; ttr fiidriiicfe' iRe dignity of ,
America tO' ap!peafe 1 Yoiir va- ij
nity ahd •pre ; fumpttafi i ;Kt6l«f)^rCabell, have
ever . indubed ■fpk t<s ipipor r M'-j
tance, and to boitft of perfM-ming wratiyou
never atchieved ; for'all those who wefelbefi.
acquainted with you in the army, kr|ow>
that to the' empiy vaporirigs "of ga'fco- j, "v
na'de, you by no means tinitcdt the .JLi I
of the hero. 108 tp
I am,
Sir, Jul
■■ ■' Vou'if obedient fervent, , t
CA : tOHILL MENNIS. - t V
: For Sale,':
TKB.time ojf a Negrcf Boyj ivho n
has about iixtecn ye.-.ts ts fcrve. ,
Applv to the Prtntfr.
• June 30. >n
bound Thefollowing article copied f rom an ?,%
Ptp"-. contains fomeparticulars of R O S'
22
ever J**" an American pater,
• : ROBESPIERRE.
«*• T , h ! jVobm cl,ib > and committee of.pulf.
.&C ; c . [ and : regulated e«ry
a '" d governed them s for.
L. as_ !<*,,> an any man, or number of men, ofc,
tamed too much power, they were cut down
:>f the W f 0 We, lie ripe corn' before . the
. r ; tl fickle of the reaper. Camille de MoulTne,
f< nt- aacieat college companion and frifend D {
ment r 'pierre,-: disappeared in his turn, the
chad "maas others had done, at the command
it )of tyrant. -Even Danton, the terrible
amp- , alit " n ' tilt !n ° a audacious of all thof
■afily T, r , ri '»«d France, funk likewifc under
t ex- l " e djfpleafure of Robespierre. and the edge
rfua- ° f 'he guillotine. Cam,He de Mtwdins had
ith a bee ' r mv,ted h Y tyrant t;o sup with him,
i the s he very night that he was arretted and
Him- ® ot! conduced to. that ■ p'rjfcpi from which
•lied departed but to mount the fatal
ICdfFold.
# this time Robespierre never
P°- ennched himfelf, but perfiiled an living no:
lent °e'J y ' * g ' bUt a ditt y fil % m ai) -
!>'•" • ' ' IC t ? rant ( for re afoHs of his own) wifh
ito ', ng to r a rT S l ' h indepen
luc ? r V b ° Ve #' had take » «P hi«
I ' ab «de in tnehoufe of a houfeofa poor ioi
' 1 where he lodged in a room which,from
" , lts . trtnation, and the moveables which it con
! tamed, would have been too dnar at half a
ent crown a week. Robefperre became, from
■. a almost his firft arnva! there, the oracle a-id
. tutelary deity.of his family, of whichall
*.?■' the members were totally devoted to him
Pli- - The father, ©npleiz, and the son, became
red the agents ctf Robespierre, the groups
lir,. ot the lower order Of tfie people ; while the
Ifld ra( ' t! ">er and conlfantly into the
gallery of the convention and to the jacobin
s a c ! ■ ' r f" i J fto3 PP!»ud with eivthufiafna the spee
ches of their admired master, And though
n; nonf ot , ~l£ ftmi'y. which, by way of derision,
~ u ' as ca 'ed the royal family,' had any fort
ap- of talents, yet, as is usual, their enthuWm
cf. and obedience was equal to their ftupidJty, and
to fceon'led with aftiduity and efled the mad
■ schemes of Robespierre.
ice . If is b >" no means aftonifliing that Robrf.
eir pierre continued to live in this Hate of ap
as parent poverty, even when all the treasures
los France were at his disposal. He had, by
be so continuing to live, a sure mode of de
•us ro ) affiilants and {Meads who a
m_ matted money, and lived in fine palaces, be
to cause he could reproach them with their
by lnxur y ; a reproach which, as it could neither
us !? c denied, nor retorted upon himfelf, gave
|r _ solidity to every other accusation which he
on | m! S ht brin £ a g ai "ft them. Add to this, that
: while all,the wealth of France was at his
c . command* it was of importance to have a
of few millons set apart, which could only, if
discovered, serve as a handle for his enemies.
n> Robespierre seems, from the time that he
te b f came m aster of France, to have made up
to *V S m ' nd ' as indeed all tyrants ihould do,
, g eitller t0 remain at the head of affairs, or
ie perish ; because to flefcend was imprafti
cable. He therefore, took none ofthofe
S r_ methods of securing to hinifeif friends or
3 f fortune which occupied the attention of fu
er bordmate men. His whole Views were con
■{. centra ted in reigning as mailer; and, there
,, fore he afted continually upon the plan of
-s ruling, or falling a facrifice at once to his
ambition.
x When Robofpierre had got rid of Briflfot,
Petion, Condoreet, and the other friends who
u had overt urned the throne of Louis the XV L
• and exalted him, he began immediately to
» organize the fyltem of'terror. He put to
death the Qneen ot France, made Sanguina y
t . decrees, and covered all France with com
t miffdties, who had the power of life and
e death, and at whose disposal all property ws«,
, without reserve. Mara', that fanguina y
fcoundrel, who had traineJ up the people of
France more savage than they naturally
j- would have hfc 'me even uuder the conven
tion, became, foimidablejto Robefp r-e ; t -nd
j i is r.eit to certain that he fell a facrifice to
the jealousy of his former friend.—Marat w s
d!,and had many fymptons of being attaikc I
{jy flow poison,, when he was ftahbed by
| Charlotte Cotde. It is firmly believed by
; njany, atid everi he himfelf thought, that he
w.-s polfem-d T»y Robefperre. And there
; are many rcafons for tjimlii g, that the poir
! arl of 'he fanatic who ass fltaated him was
; directed t'V the tyrant himfelf.
One thing ia perfeftly evident thro'the
whole of the life ps Robespierre,' which is,
that he never was turned, either through
pity or friendfhip from any aft, which his
ow.n fafety or his ambition dictated : an'd
- for the proof of this, the manner in which
he sent his friends and aiTociates to the guil
lotine isfufficier.t.
Chocolate and Mustard
Manufa'ftured as usual,
Ginger and Pepper ground
Shelled or Peas 1 Barley
BMladelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder
|.ondnp Porter
Tauston and.Krrtpn Ale
Red Par t and other Winei, elthe bottled,
or hv the pipe, quarter-cask or gallon—fuitahlc
fpfesportation or hbir>e confumprion—
. 4. T.for dale by
/ • Joha Hawortb.
ift»th Front ftrcet
'■F or Nc w- Y'<)rk,
' the brio
4wm>:' *4^
rJ ame *- Ta s l °r>
WlaJi; 'will fail hi
JLj few days, fr. low. Ami/'
;c!a board, or,ro * ,
jv/spb Anthony & Go.
..hh w- _ • J . 0
, X n ihc frc*n- St, Crcfx,'
Prime Sugar and Rum
, 40,000 yyt:. of CpfiVe
. A-<J'daXitity of chofce Madeira Wiqe,
"fames Tctrdy
South Walnut ilrcet V.Tiarf
June V- d-tTown Lots.
A TOWN panted BEtJLA* nhe thile '
b- rig Uki out on the blacklick Creek, Soia
frfet County, Pcnniylvuma, I o:s therein of $8
by i?.< hft are now feil/r»gat ten dollars each ;
thr-r hruarlon in the town to be determined by
ballot beroiv the 6rft ci A uplift, and cfr.eds for the
be d?liver«d by the fullcrilier before the
i'ri'c of October nr\t.
MORGAN J. fcHEES.
No. 177, ,ScuthSecond-ltrect;Philadelphia.
1 he pui-chafers cf loti in have the following
pr.ifpeiSls of appreciating their property :
I. It is remote trom any other town, and sur
rounded by great bodijs of excellent land, capable
of producing evt/y kind of grain and vegetable!,
and is without doubt one ef the heft grazing coun
tries in the United Slates.
In pou.t of health the CtUation is not exceed
ed by any on the continent.
3 Bcfidcs eumerom spring* stid runs, of the fin
eft quality, there 13 a creek for wa-tr works (on
which mills are now building) running through the
town,
4 The public road f;cm Philadelphia to Pittf
os#gh will ga through it, which bein more level
irici hearer than any ether rout must become uni
■wfally travelled,: aided by the navigation of Ju
ri«f» and'Conemoujh, goods may be c nveyed at
least 3 cr 3 dollars p:r cwt. cheaper from die lor
MW to the latter place, th:n by the old road thro'
Skdfari.
5. Ee>n» in the centre of a £aurifhing fettle
r-CPt, and taking, hi die fhortcfl portage between
♦he eaitern and wefiern wa'ers, it it likely to b»
c.ta'.c a de oflt for {lores. a manu a<Si\iring town,
and a feat of jauice. BeSdes the old up
v irci- of o <t hundred emigrants have fettled in the
vicvKity of iocuU, firice last October, and many
mora have engaged to join them this summer.
6. A X,and-OjCce for supplying a<2ual settlers
with forms to.a confidence ami u t, and 13 vari
ous CtUitions, wit! be immediately opened in the
tawn. The propri'tors of land iu the circumja
cent countty ar* solicited 1 o fend their drafts and
t rmi of ule, or leafing, to Thomas Jones, Sur
veyor, in Beula, who will give fccurity for any
troll reposed -n hiro : with such cf aid,
the proeref- of the lett!em<. Nt wi I be the mo; t ra
pidly advanced and extended to distant townlhipx.
7. A public; library for she benefit of the settlers
will be established iu the town, towards laying the
foundation ot which, upwards of or.p thcufard
volumes are already purchafi d and principally feut
forward.
8. Two hundred acres of land adjoining the
town, besides lots and liibfcriptions,will be applied
to fuppcrt a mipifter and 1 receptor, capable of
teaching tl.eufeful and liberal aits.
9. A iter defraying nec.ffary exj-encet, the mo-
Siey ariiing from the present falcs will be laid out in
cublic buildings —A place of woriip, school
firufe and library rc< m, are the £rftobje&i.
ir. Every profyffioual mm ard mechanic, on
Condition ol building a house with a ftcne or brick
chimney, and redding in it, before the firft of No
• vember next, will be entitled to fair lot 6 gratis,
free for - vcr frofn greund rent. Five and ten acre
out lots may likewise be obtained on reasonable
tei m«.
*«* The two central ftretts in B«u!i are 100
f»:t wide, and the others 80 feet. Refervedfquares
end othejr accommodations must add to the health
ir.i tie place.
jt
cTabriel decombaz7~~
BOOKSELLER & STATIONER, •
J leant to infirm tbs pub'ic thflt be has r(*
mo-u-i bis iibnp to P n. 3;, South Tbir-iJinet.
AND HAS JUST PUBLISHED,
(Neatly bcundand lettered, price 2 dols. 15 cts.)
Ihe Adventures of Telemachus.
French and Engiilh, 1 vols. umo.
AMONG the books which daily fall into the
hands ot the youth of both sexes, none
kave a higher claim to their attention than Te'e
rnachm. The mtft intereftifig leff.ns are here
conveyed in the vehicle of an interelling Poem,
replete with the f.neft touchts of the true pa
thetic, and erabclifhfd with ail the graces of a
beautiful fiyle. The fatal cfTc<fU of indulging
pafliens are exemplified m thp most firiking
manner| and the happiness atte ding inno
cence and virtue p-.intedin the fivelieft c l ur«.
Whatc-er ran incite to virtue or deter from
vice; whatever can enlighten the umlerffand
ing, charm the imagination, and imp ove the
heart, is to be found in this intc efling work.
THE NAVAL'GAZETTEER;
Being a complete Geographical 'DiAionary,
containing a full and accurate account, alpha
betically arranged, of all the countries and isl
ands in the known world ; Ihbwing their latit
ude, foundings, and flations for anchorage -,
with a particular description of the several Bays,
Capes, Channels, Coves, Creeks, Currents,
Gulfs, Harbours, Havens, Lakes, Oceans, Ra
ces, Rivers, Roads, Rocks, Sands, Shoals,
Sounds, Straits, Tides, Variation of the Com
psfs &c. Together with a particular relation
o.f the scape and appearance at sea, of the seve
ral Headlands, Ifihmufes, Peninsulas, Points,
Fromontories, and whatever is of use or impor
tance to the Mailer, Pilot, Comraandp, or.
Seaman of any Ibip or veflel, in navigating the
watery element.
AJfa Comtrehtnding [
Ample Diredlions for failing into oroutofthe
d'fferent Ports, Strait?, and Harbours of the
four quarters of the world; and for avoiding
dangers on the variou« and extended coafis ] in
whieh more than twelvethoufanddiftinft names
of places, are treated of and explained. With
acorreft set of Cherts, a vols. Bvo. price 6 dels.
By the Kev. JOHN MALHAM,
0" This has been pronounced the most ufe
fuland the cheap»-ft bo' kpnbiiihed m A.m=rica.
T'ine IT. dtf
Mttjiciitbyituitient JvLdhufalloty\
b'o. 167, Arch-Street.
HARPER, harpsichord,grand, portable grand,
fid :.hoard, pier table and square piano forte
caak. r from London, returns thanks to his friends
and the public, for their liberal encouragement,
and hopes that by his afEdolty and attention to ev
ery branch of his business, to trerit a continuance
of their favors. Piano fertes made on the newest
and molt approved plans, with p-dais, patent,
swell, and French harp fiop, which he Battels
himCclf will *ue found cn trial by unprejudiced
judges, to be equal if not superior to any import
ed, and twenty per cent cheaper. Any inftru
mant purehafed of bim, if sot approved of in
twelve worths, he will exchange.
N. B. All kinds of Musical iniiruments made,
uaed, and repairet with the greatest accuracy,
dispatch, and ca the tpoft reasonable terms, i,.r
ready money only.
Second band Piano Fortes taken in exchange.
May »e. &jm.
STATE 'TRIALS.
S«ld by W. Young, bookfeiler, No. 53, South Se
cand-ftreot,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
Containing the impeachment,itnaJ, and acquit
, a! of Francis Hoplinfon, Judge of the Court of
Admiralty, and John Xicholion, Comptroller Gen
oa!—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, 3
dt liars.
W. You.vg has for sale, a general affortnient of
Bcoks. Also, Stationary, retail and by the pack
age, well afforte3, and entitled to the drawback if
• :rpcrted. Tnly 7—*34 1
LAW BOOKS,
Latest London and Dublin Editions.
H. iff P. RICE, Booksellers,
No. i 6, Siuth Second, and No. 50, Ma»f:et street,
iTAVE jail received hy the lite arrivals from
s L l.ondon and Dublin, their fprir.g importa
tion, confining of a varlaty of the ia(es and niofl
approved 1 iwßooki. v.h'ic'n added to thoi'e alrea
dy On hand, forms the most extetifivs colldiSiio.i ev
er offflrod for sale in thi- country. They the. cfore
beg lea ,T e to notice, that from th 2 nature of their
con.neiS.icnsiß Dublin, they ate enabled to felllrifli
> edit'o is (a 6 they have hitherto dor e) it the very
lowefl prices The following are among the late If
publication!.
Vefey, jun'rs Repor*: in Chancery, I
Peake'6 Cases at Nisi I'riut ; Ridgeway's R< • art»
in the time of Lord Hsrdwicke; l'leytjr's Procters
PraiSlre in the Pcclefjaftieal Courts; Barton's
Treatise en a Suit in Equity ; fidd's Praftice of
the Court ef King's Bench in Perfooal Aflions, 3
pjrts. complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; C'ruife
on tj'fei,; modern Reports, I i vols. London edi
tion.
H. and P. R<ci expect ta lecaive by the firfl ar
rival from New-Yerk rhe 6th vol. complete of
Ournforil and Kafl's Reports, the ad part of Gil
bert's I.aw of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
new publications.
Jtaie 16.
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 319, High-Street.
GEORGE DAVIS,
BEING bnfied f»r some time past in prepara
tions for removing into his preient house, hss
ht'en undei thendteflityof pollponinguntil this day
informing the gentlemen of the Bar generally thro'
the I'iaiied States, that his spring importation of
law books is now arranged and ready for sale, on
terms that he trusts will entitle him to the like pre
ference he has experienced for teveral years pail.
Catalogues, combining the,moft varied collec
tion ever imported lt.to I hit, country, are printed
and \» ill be delivered 011 application.
June 27. jaw 6w
A Literr-ry Treat.
JvJl pullijhed, handjameij printed on writing
paper, price 1 dollar,
A new edition of that popular and entertaining
work, entitled
rHE FORF6TERS, an American Tale ; being
a fiqurl to the history of John Bull, tl)e Clo
thier—ln afcriesof letters to a friend, with thlad
dition of tv o letters, alluding to recent political
tranfa>ftions ih America.
Th« following extratf from the Clavis Allegories,
fhe-.vs the principal charailers that are introduced:
John Bull, the Kingdom of England
Hi> Mother, theClurchof England
His Wife, the Parliament
His Sifter Peg, the Church of Scotland
His Brother Patijck. Ireland
Lewie, the K'ngdom of France
His Mistress, the Old Constitution
His ntw Wife, the National Reprefeotation
Lord Strut, the Kingdom of Spain
Nicholas Frog, the Dutch Republic
The "ranks, the French Republic
The Foresters, the United Mates of America
Robert Lumber, Ncw-Hampfiiire
John Codline, Ms&achufctls
Humphrey Plowshare, ConneiSicttt
Roger Carrier, Rhode llland
Peter Bull Frog, New-York
Julius Caslar, New-Jersey
William Broadbrim, Pennsylvania
Caffima*, Delaware
Walter Hipewood, Virginia
His Grandson. Geo«;e Walhington
Peter Pitch, North Ctuoliua "
Charles Indigo, Soutk Carolina
George Trufly, Georgia
I.than Greenwood, Vermont
Hu ter Longknife Kentucky
Black Cattle, Negro Slaves
Rats, "peculators
Mother Carey's Chickens. JacoVins
£s* I hi popul r and entertaining fatirica!hifto
ry of j~ m»ncais afrihutcd to the Rev. Dr Bfi.-
knap It l iasa great fh re of originality and a
bounds wi.h ge'iuine humour. It is contirued
down to'he prefer,t time, anf chsradlerifes those
late poli-ical tr.mfa<3icnj which have caused so
| much ureaGnelsin America.
Sold by H. and H BLU E, Bookseller, No. 16,
South Second Street, and No. 50, Marke' fbeetl
fune 16. 5
yujl Published,
And to be hid of Messrs. Dobfon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal Booksellers in the
city,price one dollar, twinty-fivr cents,in boards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMIIH BARTON, m. d.
June 10. ' «6t
Erfkine's View of the War.
yiTST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No 40 South Second street,
[Price 31 Cents}
A View of the Causes and Confetjuen
ces of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskine.
Dispute between the United States
and France.
This day ispublifhed, I y Thomas Bradford, No.
8, South Front street, price 1/4,
OBSERVATIONS on the dispute between the
United States and France, addrtffed by Ro
sert Goobloe Harper, of South Carolina, to his
c onstituents. June a 6 —§9t
COLUMBIA HOUSE ~
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GRQOMBRIDGJB with much pleas
ure and rcfpe«sl, returns her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
she li3s received during four years residence ia
Philadelphia; and allures her friends and the
public, f« far from intending V> decline her
school, she has made a superior arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars.—Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groombridge and masters excelling in their
refpeiliveprofeffions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
J"n£ s'th, 1797. sim(tf
The situation is perfeilly healthy ; and made
more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the hniile.
George Dobfon,
No. 25 Scuth Third Street, *
HAS imported per lbips William Penn, Star,
and Diana, from London,
5-4 Super London Chintz, elegant patterns,
Ginghams, Muflinetts and Dimities.
Fafhioiiafyle Waificoating, newest patterns.
P.fbbands well assorted, in (mail trunks.
4-4 5-4 ami 6-4 India and Britilh Book-mus
lins.
I »ncy Cloatlis and Cafiimers.
1 hs whole to be disposed of cheap for Cash
or rpprcved Notes of a fliort date.
June 14,'97. d.tf.
4 5-; cog pieces of Naiikc£rt£
2 5 3 boies brown Hiuannah Sugar*
Imporii! Hyson Tojrt
I / tubs Quick Silver
Sail Canvas, No. t a 3
A I aiuirtmeiit of Nails, sluij ]* and flat points
London I'anisuUr.sndO -«« . ■ «>'•
thdia Market j Madera Wine,
Ter.rifTe Wine in'bhds. aid pipis
Bott'ed ISfcdon Potter in tiircts
Fine Yullow 1 <!rr in calks
VVritinj'glatwJ* bundles
A box of Ir.'iStanliand Note Preffss
Manclicllcr Coo Js ia clieftj
3 trunks blade IVwlngSuk
6 tons of Sheet Lead
Be«l Liverpool Cocil, artd ■ ;
A qu lUtity of Wine Buttlfl
For Sale by
Pmp Nirklin, isf Co.
J'."" - 14. " "" SKawtf
WiNpow Glass,
Of Superior Quality, anrf <;hcapei i!uo any oiher in
ih<City—
OF FAMOUS SIZFS, ■
Fiohi Sbv 6 to 19 l>y i 4,
By the finale Boxj'dr Quantity, may Vffhad at the
5 ore oi ifc» Subfciifcerj, corner ot Arek anif Front
flreet. .?
fames C. & Samuel W. Fijher.
Philadelphia, J 'neq, 17.07. t,, wm wftf
Samuel & Mlcrs Hlheiv
No. 27, Dcck-flreet,
Have juji received per Abigail, Babcoel,from
Belfast,
IRISH Cambricks, in botes of 40 pieces
and 80 patches, each sorted up "to 9/
sterling per yard.
They Lave also rectified
7-8 & 4*4 Iriffl Liners well aiTorted
Dowlas and Sheetings,
which will be fold for ready money, cr short
credit, on moderate terms; together with
a general aflbrtment of Spring Goods as
ufual—J Jo,
■ \ Hunter's Pipes in boxes
An aiTortmefii of Queens' Ware in crates
An afTortment of Glifs Ware in casks and
crates
T. Crowley, tyillington, Steel
, Cargo & London particular Wines
l LifEon Wine of*excellent quality
Superior Sherry Wines
; Patent Sheathing paper.
A few faall bales fine Cloths neatly affbrtr
ed, ar.d two bales assorted Flannels, tt> be
fold per package.
Juae 9. 3 taw 6w
Nathaniel Lewis & Son,
Have fur sale at their flore, No. 70, adjoining
George Latimer £s* Son, Pine-Jlreel Wharf,
A Quantity of
Madeira Wines
in pipe; and half pipes
adeira Walnutsand Citron, lately imported
in the schooner Sincerity, Capt. Copia
4!fi,
*5 Puncheons, fecondar.d th : rd proof, Weft-
India Rum, and a few fripes of Braady
Tfcey have coijftaD'.ly on hand and. for faje,
French Burr and Country Miil Stonet of various
£zfi, and a general aflcrtment of BctUu/c Cloth of
■ the bell quality, both Amcr-can qnd Foreign raa
nufjilure. The former having proved, from fe
verul years nperiußce of a number cf milUr? in
different parts of the United States at lead equal,
and in many imlancej superior to fbe European
Cloths, Wc hope the maaufj&urcr, Robert Daw -
son, will meet with liberal encpuragemcnt in this
important and ufeful undertaking. He has obtain
ed a patent and exclusive right of making and
vending Bcultm? Clot!*: on his improved plan for a
number of years, and they are fold only by him
felf in Lancafler, state of Penafylvania, and by
the fabfcrSbera in Philadelphia.
June 14 d
Rofs & Sinifun,
Have for Sale,
A QUANTITY OF PRIME
St. Dontiingo Cotton,
Superior Old Lijbon Wine ifi
Excellent IndU Market
Teneriffe Wine,
In Madeira Calks
A few Qiiarttr Chtfls btj't
Fresh Hyson and } „
Hyson Skin 5 lEAS
Muscovado Sugars in Hogfteada, and
Cofiite in Tierces
March 7, » ||tf
From on board fchponer Daphne, captaiq
G. W. Morse, from Htfpaniola,
61,000 vrt. 8-jgar,
53,000 Coffee
FOR SALE B?
F. COPPINGER,
No. 421, South Front-ft'reet,
Who has also on hand,
Claret in hhds. and cases
Rice
A quantity of'Briftol Bottles
A cafe of Cambrics
Cloths and Caffiroeres.
July 5. dot.
Por Sale,
That well known p'ace, called VANDf.Gßirt's
f HIV,
ON Nelhsminy creek, 18 miles from Phi
ladelphia, on thv* ISevv York poll road,
containing 74 acres_and 94 perches. Upon the
premises are a large two story fione hou'.'e occu
pied asatvern, and a good one flory Hone kit
chen, a largeframe liable with a good threshing
floor, and lomc out buildings—also- a well of
good wafer, ajid an excellent ice House. On
this place is a molt elegant fituotion lora gentle
man s feat, commanding a v ew of the Kefham
iny to its juniilion wiili the Delaware, ar.d thence
acfo.it to the Jerfty short. It has the privilege
of one half ihe toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the StiWcriber,
MORDECA! LEWIS. 1
J'ay 04. jtavitf. '
ELFG ANT new FURNITURE
NOW Selling off Cheap, Cor.fifting of
Side-boards, comaiods, front, and sash
corner card tables, circular and square do.
circular and square bureaus, deiks and chairs
of the very newest fafhion, bed/leads, and
two very complete secretaries, and book-cas
es. The above articles may be had on ad
vantageous terjr»s, as the owner is about de
clining the business. Persons wishing to
purchase are desired to apply immediately,
in. Second a few doors above Walnut Street,
direttly opposite the city tavern.
June 27.
70k SALE,
I hefollowing Valuable Property.
VACANT Let, situated on the cast fide of
L J. Third-ftr?et, between fhippen and Plumb
flrtets, twenty one feet front by one hundred feet
deep.
A frame Tenement fsfteen febt by nineteen feet,
on the north fide of Shippen flrett betwetn Third
and Fourth-flreets ; the Iqt is orte hundred feet
deep, it is paved before the dcor.fcd great im
provements are making in -the ftreel—-the above is
dea&of ground rent and evjtry other incumbrance"
—the house lets for thirty seven pounds ten fhil
l'r.g« per aiiuunp.
Afriais Teu.'auat clew, by fixtetfi feet,on the
well fide of Fifth-Hrect, between Shippett Liid
PUi:nb- lrectl ; the lot is ninety fix feet deep, clear
of every incumbrance except a ground iciu of o ie
hundred and ten fnillings per annum ; the haufe
lets for thirty pounds per annum.
ALSO,
A pair of dark brown Carriage Horses, one of
which is an excellent Saddle Hcsfe
For further particulars inquire of
Samuel R. Franklin,
No. 100, Lombard-itreet, corner of Fourth fit.
N. B. The a'xiva property will be fold for part
cafl> and part dry goods.
June 30. 3aw4w
FOR SALE,
By Simon vValker,
No. Z22, South Fourth-Street,
GOLD and.filvcr Watchts
Shot, commcn and patent
Tin Platfs, Sheet,lrcn
Bar and sheet L ad
Copper fliects arid bottoms
Taunton Ale
Ravens Duck
Ha's in cases
Wool Cards
Claret Wine and Por,ter Bottles in hfnipe^.
July r. eo w
—
Advertisement.
PURSUANT ta an Order from the Orphans* Court,
■w'dl abJoluiAy He fold* at PUBLIC SALE, at
Cranberry, on IVeJnefday, toe Isd day of Augufi next, at
II oUotk, A M, all ibai valuable REAL EST A T£,
late belonging io the Rev. Gilbert 7. Snowde
lyi/t-r ut and near Cranberry, h the county sf Middltfex y
toxvnjbip of South Brunfcvici, Rate of N*xu
on the l-jiDir Jiaoe road leafing from Foiladcltbla to Ntiv
York. A very eleoant fram<.fkvfe in a beautiful and
healthy fit nation, bcir.ted ivh'tit, rvith Venetian "window J
Jbuitcn % thirty feat frout and tbitty tight feet deefro/j
' roopts.zujt'j a btjndjowe boll or. entry in the Jlrfi Jlior y
three rooms on the second foor and txvo i/iel'.-fnijbedgar~ I
rets. In the rear of the bpufe is an excellrnt tiuo-fory |
. building 37 feet by If, confiding of a dining-room f-.r
I iuork people, fpaeious pantries and a Urge kitchen, ivitb
every convenience, and over these are three 'ehambers for ]
servants. W the right 15 an additional balding l 3 f'ct
frqnt by Ity set deep, conftjliitg of a chamber belyio and a
library above—-under the ivbole are very fine cellars paved
rvith brick and conveniently partitioned. The house is en
tirely nen} t built in a modern flyle, and completely and e
legpnt'y fniJhcJ. Eveiy roo,u U hung with bells thai
lead Loth to tke kitchen and tbp fervajits apartments : tlure
is a pump of go*d "water in (he yard; find a flone and
brick pavement round the whole house, xvL'uh is encktfc
ed with a hardjome railing, with three gates in front.
The sam conjtjis of one hundred and ftxty fev*n acres,
tvilJj a proporf itn of woodland and mejdcxv, under extel
knt f:nce ; a garden withpalf fen*; a large barn, fia-
I'les, carriage-hoife, cow-houses, 13c. all nciv, andiuiU
in the lefl nanner . iv\ih twp Orchards, one of 66 full
grown trees, the fther Li ytsuvg end thriving t coftpin* of
200 btfi grafted ffuit trees.
Nearly afyinin* fa id farm is a let of WocdUnd,
of theLejl quality, foataining 37 acres. As* a trap <f
land within seven miles of Cranberry, and I ef the Qrojf
Jtoad't, containing one hdndrtdana ffty acres, tlrecfourtis
meadru) and ihe reft excellent tflkotr.
This Traß will he fold in lots on Thursday, ibe 34 th
day of Augujl foifowing, as II p\M, A M, on the
premises if the weather permits, if not the btufe of
At*. Wither ill, Cross Roads.
For farther particulars e'-fjuire of Nathaniel Hunt,efq.
Cranberry, of Mr. faac SnowdertAun. No. South
Second Street, Philadelphia, or of JVlr' Charles Snotudsn
Ttntine Coffee-Houfe, New ftri, or rf tUfuifcfibert.
ISAAC SNOWDJSJV,P.-uctfo* *> ~ . 4
JACO£ IVSR£X, Cranberry j
N. B. Ph; sal: of the above property jtvas aavertized
Jar the I sib inf. butthe A Jinijfrfttors were not-able to
-et the two separate Trails bid out iHU> Lots, and other
7.natters arranged, on acs<t*ni of tk* indifpofttkn tf an* of
them, it was toercforf adjourned to the dqys obpvt mention
ed. §6tmwftf June 19*
THE FOLLOWING VALUABLE
Trads of Land,
IN the couaty of Glynn and state of Georgia;
will be fold by public sale, at tight o'clock
on the «v»ning of Tuesday the 17th day of June
next, at rh«f Merchants Coffee House in this ci
ty, unlef? previoiifly difpofedof by private sale.
ift. 7eoo acres on St. Simons sound at the
confluence of Frederics and 'Turtle rivers, ad
joining *he commons of the town of i'ruriifw ick,
originally granted to John Howell, arid within
6 11 iles of the Atlantic orean.
ad. 2j,cco acres oil the head waters of a
branch of the great Saltilla, originally grouted
to Ferdinand <3'Neal.
3d. 50,000 acres cn the waters of the little
Satilla liver, and of Buffaloe and Alexanders
Creeks ; the great Satilla road pafles'through
thel'e- lands, which were originally granted to
Ferdinand O'.N'eal.
4th. 50,000 acres on the great Satilla river,
which are also interleaved by a Ijfaßch of the
little Satilla, and were originally grated tan
Thomas Spalding.
It appears By authentic certificates from
Thomas Davis, purveyor, and from Major
Hopkins now rcfidmg in Philadelphia, that the
body of tbefe lands are not thirty miles from
the ocean, and principally within tide water ;
that the Alatamaha is navigable for boats and
rafts two huudred miles above, and for large
vtilels within ten of them ; that they are
chiefly firfl rate pine lands, producing timber
equal m quality to any in the frate of Georgia,
poffeCing the fame advantages of navigation.
The abbvementioned certificates, together with
the patents', drafts, a^dother papers
the title, which is complete and unincumbered, j
are in the po3jrffion of the fub'feribys and may 1
be seen by applying to Benjamin ft. Morgan, at
No. 41 Mulberry Street. The'terms of pay
ment wiil be one third cash, t> e remajitmg two
thirds in good negotiable endi is*d notes, paya
ble in three and fix months aiiter the sale; a
coOTteyanceto.be made tS eash..purtiiaf'i-rQO the
payment ss( that inioiety of the uutCfctqudved
from him which becomes firfl d-te.
THOMAS
JEREMIAH PARKER,
BENJAMIN R. MORGAN.
Philadelphia, May 31, x 79 7. eodtf.
Millinery Room,
Nq. Is 6 Marlct-Jlreet.
MISS GHWSTAL.
TAKES ap early opportunity of acquainting
her Friends that the has received by , the
WillJaM Penk, a varitly if NEW MIL
LINERY, &c. which (he hopes-to be able to
(hew them in * few da* V..
Mav 18 '
CARD.
Oil A'ANUS HOt'RNE, Consul Gecffa! o£
O the United States to the Bjtaviafff?LtpiibUc,
begs leave hereby to make known to ftte tViendi
and others, ihat he has lately eftabli&ed a Cam
m:Hion Houie at A mftcrdam, w.dar tbe firm of
LANGE and BOUKNE, by whentv£!l orders
for tl.c file and puhrbafeof merchandize and of
the vmi ious public (locks of the United-States,
For the negotiation of Soars, &c,- will be attend
ed to with promptitude and fidelity, and oil the
m«ft iv.£lc:iicb.e Leim..
f.ty r 4.. 3 t
bifurancc Company of North A
merica.
r "T , Hfi Dividend for the iafl half year, declared
A by tU« Directors this day, is one dollar on
each (hare bf tfee Stock of this Company; which
will he paid to rha Stockholders, cr tfteir represen
tatives d .-.ly aathcriicd to receive it, at any time af
c.l* the 20th in 11,
EEEN HAZARD, Stc'ty.
Tu'y th
1' orty Dollars iiew,arci.
O AN away from the fubfrriber on tl;e feft-
K onddayof this inft. July, a Mulatto Man*
j named Will Bowzer, about forty years c? 2ge,
, five feet seven or eight inches high, rather
chunky made ; had on when he went away, a
drab colored cloth coat, striped purple tri-wfers
anj jacket, it is probabJr he will change hi*
cloatiies, as he took a number with him. The
fail fellow formerly belonged to Mr. Charies
B1 kc of thi9 place; and it is expe<3ed he hat
made towards "Joiie s '» Neck, in the Delaware
Slate—Any perl, n apprehending :he said fel
low, and securing him so that! can get him a
gain, (hall receive the above reward if taken
®iit oi" the county, and Twenty Dollars if in
; the coun'y, and all reasonable charges if bro't
j home, ,
JES&E reed,
Queen Ann's County, Maryland-
J n| y 3- wjt
l'hirty Dollars Reward.
ELOPF.D from the service of the fubferiher,
on the 19th inltant, a negfo man by the
name of DICK, about twenty fire sare of age*
and Cve feet nine or ten inches high ; by trade
a carpenter, and is a very lively brisk 'work
man. His countenance is very good—When
fpokep to, he converses with ease and .confi
dence, and is pretty figacious. I purchafcd
I t*e said fellow »f Mr.DubnSy M! io>-, in whose
| name he has been advertised in t e Richmond
1 newspapers. Dnring hi« lafl runaway trip (V#ft
: furnmer J he was ewployecfa cortfi lerahle length
of time, by feme peHon near Dumfri s, from
which eircumftance, I conjeflure, he has taken
another nothern route 1 forewarm all [ erf■»)»
from giving him employment, of any U A
| whatever, and raafterspf veJftkand oflrtrt, from
carrying him put of this state. The ahave re
ward wiJJ be given if he is ukea within forty
nj'ifcs of the* and an '
p oportion to the distance he may be brought,
or the trouble and expence the apprehendel-'nuy
be at, in bringing him to this place. "
AUG; DAVIS.
N. B. His apparel was of the ufy»l sejro kind,
but be hjiJ more cloaths {JUfIeW 4jjflooijry {pr
them to poflefs.
AD.
Richmond, Jpne n, 1-9;. ■
C. E. Whitlock,
DENTIST,
TJ ESPECTfULLY informs the Ladies and Ger
rv tlemcnof Philadelphia and its vicitiity, that he
continues to perform ail operations on tbeTreth ; fun
plies the deficiencies of nature with ar'ififial or real
teeth, in air the various modes of fixing—Clean?,
files, regulates, extrsQs, and fills decayed teeth with
gold or lead, &c. Slc. tie w«iti upoo ladies wd.
Gentlemen at ("heir and wi4l be happy to re
ceive their commands b/'notei at Mn. pi kch'i, NO
- north Eighth ft rem, or at his fioufe. next to the
Black HorfeTavtra, on the Fr'aukford road.
r 1 , . Dolbrj^,
Seal ng and cleaning r
A'lifieial teeth, v/itH ertamel, per tooth,
Ho. in g jid focketi or {crews / »
testh with ligatures j
Do. on gold or ivory locken, or ga Id screws to
Filingand tu fing.swaysiecsy— each decay , 1
Filling, wiih gold 2
Do. withlead , ;;
CetreAing(to the families who employ bun
a< dentist) . g
Do. *rtere not employed p '
Tooth powder of his own preparing ' \a
BfufHes, bift Loudon maautaAMe cents.
Regulating/ Jtc. accordWiiothe operation. ■' 1
c I lyA t T Lock will fell the time of a Ife«6
Matt i» honest fobrr, and hai abovit 5 mtii'
and a. halt to serve. Enquire ii above.' 1
June '5 ytthtf
' ' " 1 1 ' 11 : ■■') ■>"' .'
JLancafter> Harri/burg# Qarhjf ? -
-
' . STAGES. .
THE public are requested t9 take notice, that
the gartaerftip wluch f>'»»«.tia)je j»b
betweaa ol Lancafur,
William Geer, ;s now diflolv<d. but, not as M-
Slougli wHiiUatestp the public withoot just catffe ;
as will wore -iutlj' appear by a li tter on thc'fnh
tea; from M. alougfc to W.; Ge.cr, dated the apth
December lalt. a recital of which is not dpw dc/a
ed neceßary. Auy gentleman who wife« to be
more circumllantially inftrmcd, of tht roerifs (,f
this business, by applying to W. may ha.\ie
»f M. Slough'» letter, and then can be
at full Cbcrty to detemvitte whWher cr jjot W.
is not perfcdly jalifiahJe .in attaehirg Kn.i
felf to any other perfojj.(he proAtjiticn cf the
Stage conveyance (rosi Philadelphia tofihispeKf
vrgi or any other fiace.
Now from the libiraf and generous support the
public Were plcafed to confer on the sirs: effort fn
this \9 ilHam in eoninniflion witlt
Messrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer', is
toprofecute and carfy it oc.with every iart, at
tention and dispatch that a zeal to' oblige the pulj
liccan.poflibJj' exsrt.
The above company, who are amply provided
witi> iar>:-;;jSj,l»orf?«, apd cte?y t<k
render the jjiaagp 6f« and ihfortai
thof« wno wi& to patronise ami mtettr.ige 'the.
under:a!;i:.g, that they i:r.; taltp tIV-'ir feats at
Geoige W«d's, the Can el'tW White
Market Street, PWladeipJiin, op every Monday
and ttidav, so pro«e«d to j.artcafter, Harrilburfc,'
CarliCe and fihippsclliurg. The fare at' hitherto
eft biilhid. . ••. - «
For tha'forthcr of Hie
a Stage will start every Weduel'day from tin hojd»!
oi Samuel i-. U?w. in jSarrrfbuiNT. mttt> ' d ■
Vury in Northu-abcrl.-iud county, CK£ry I hurtiay,
and return from tj.cnct Bnu srriVt *t Harrjfturj|
evety Satiirdey,, fa that, paffiengefs defined for
{.ancaftcr.cr BU'a*telphia, on t&qa*
dars. f < ' " ' v '
J WILLI AW GEEK.
Lancaster, Jan. 4.7, 1797'. '
N. B. rkib- Llac et Stages {larn from tht
house of William Bcrrec, in Lancafltr, on every
Tuesday and Saturday moraing ai; 6-o'clock, pro
ceeding to the westward; and Ironi houfe of
Mr. Sanxucl i£ld;r in Haxriiburg ever.y Wejlnef.
day morning, or» die fanie.evemng arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's iu Shipoenftlurg, and retuins
from thence en every Thurfaay : performing che
la me sowine dailv as_ in its toarir«in PhiladfeJ*
phia. taws