of ti»c and hiladelphia Daily Advertiser.
KC>mbaß I 555.J
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DRY GO 03 S.
f Forenoon—Edward Fox, No. j6,
/ outh Front-flrect,
- ) Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 6$
(_ South Front-street.
f Forenoon—John Connelly, Old City
futfJavJ Auflion, No. 73 foutii Front-street.
J ■ J Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
(_ 183 High-street.
md»tfdaj J A ') er " oo "r^l er aenfoH > No - 74
• I south Third-ftrcet.
Thursday \ F»renoon-.£dward Fox.
( Afternoon—John Connelly.
Fridat \ Forenoon—William Shannon.
* S Afternoon—John Connelly.
SiitHrdrrf Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
United States, 1 -
Pennsylvania Diftrift. J
IN pursuance of a writ tome direited from the
honorable Richard Peters, Esq. fudge of the
DiftiiA Court of the United States in and for the
Pennsylvania DiSria, will be expOsed to Public
Sale, at the Merchants'Coffee-houfe, in the city of
Philadelphia, on Mono at, the eleventh day of
September next, at 11 o'clock at noon,
The Brigantine, called the
MARIA,
With all and lingular the tackle, ap
*st~. ' ,y/ parel and furniture as they now are ;
the said Brigantine having been condemned to pay
Mariners waq-es, &c.
Wm. NICHOLS, Marfhti.
fylarflial's Office, ?
August 10, 1797. i
N. B. The Inventory may be seen at my Offi e«
White Havanna Stigar.
1461 boxts > of rcry superior quality now difcharg
-75 hhd ; - j ing from the Ihip Harrtburgh Packet,
at Waliitit Street wharf—and forfale by
Philip Nick/in Iff Co.
N. B.
I THE SHIP
Hamburg Packet,
Silas Swain, Matter,
Skl3cs££ For Sale, or Charter.
Aug. 74. cot s
"COMMISSIONERS' SALES,
THE Commiffir>ner» of the counties of Ly
coming and Northumberland, have given
notice that they intend to proceed to the sale of
lands, for the arrearage of taxes, on the 7th of
September next.
1 £5" The different printers in this city will
render an effcntial service to a great number of
isdividuals'by publifbing this notice.
Aug. 18- - __________
FOR SALE,
BRETAONES In cases
German Checks in do.
Cambrick *
Plattillas
Oznabrias
p. Gold and silver Watches
Window Glass 10 by S
Glass Tumbltrsin cases
Linseed Oil in cnlks, ice. See.
George Pennoek,
103, High-Strett.
Jalr S- jaw
NOTICE.
IF Thidy O'Hara, whofome years fincekept
School at the Nine Bridges, Queen's County, Eas
tern Shore, Maryland, be living, he is hereby re
minded to call on, or write to, the Rev. Ambrose
Mar Qui, near Warwick, C cil County, Eastern
Shore, Maryland, from whom he will receive iu
twefting information.
Augap 4. mw&f-iw
THE SUBSCRIBERS,
ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GREEN LEAF,
HEREBY give notice, that they have disposed
of the property afligned to them for the fecuiing
the payment of the note l , acceptances, and en
doifonents given by. Edward Fox, for the use
of thu said James Greenleaf; holders of
such notes, acceptances, and endorsements, are
hereby notifyed that the fubferibers will fsttle
with them for the amount of their refpedlive
claims, both principal and interest, at
any time before the acth day of OiSlober next;
aftnr which dav, the holders not applying, will
be ■rxcluded, agreeably to the farms of align
ment
Applications to be made at foutk-eaft corner
•f Dock and Second streets {the Dock-street
fide), between the hours of eleven and one o*
elo«k every day, Sundays excepted.
1 , Henry Pratt,
Tho. IV. Francis,
> , John Miller, Jun.
John Afhley,
Jacob Baker.
Philadelphia, Augwft 18, 1797. d
At a Meeting of the Board of
Property, June 6, 1797>
Prefint John Hall, See'ry.
Francis Johnfton, R. G. > of land office
Dan. Brodhead, S. G-)
Nicholas Bettinger,
•versus ?-
Samuel Cunningham. )
In this cafe the proof of service of notice be
ing inefficient, It is ordered that notice be giv
en in one of the Philadelphia and York newfpa
sers weekly, for at least eight weeks to the
heirs or assignees of Samuel Cunningham de
cetfed, to atttend the board 011 the firft Monday
in November next, to shew cause why a patent
ftould net issue to Nicholas Bettinger for the
Jaad in question.
(A true Copy.)
JOHN HALL,
Secretary of the Land Office.
Aug- *S- *iawßw.
The Inhabitants of the Diftrift
of Southwark,
A RE informed that a Coachee is provided, to he
JLJ. kept at the Constables' office, the north east
e9r acr of Front and Almond streets, where the
friecids of those Cck persons who desire to be re
moved to the City Hospital, arc requested to make
application—Also, a Hearse will be kept in readi
ncfiifor the rernoval'of the dead.
JONATHAN fSNROSS.
Jl. B.— The Poor, who wish to remove to the
Tet:t» on Schoylkill, may be fwgniflicd with ordett
Vy (applying as above, Aug. 19
PHILADELPHIA:
To be SOLD or RENTED,
A LARGE 3 Story Brick House, on the
South fide of Filbert street, between
Eighth and Ninth, lately occupied as the Sur
veyor General's Office.
The Building is 36 feet front and 3; feet deep,
the lot 1 ro feet deep, withthe privilege of a nine
feet wide Alley extending the whole length of
. the lot, to a thirty feet wide Court for Carriages
to turn in. The House is not flattered, and
may be turne'd either intrt one, 1 or two dwelling
Hoi,fes. It isfuitable for a large Manufafiory,
or would make a good Tavern. Immediate
pofieffion will be given. «
Apply to No. 111, Chefnut-Street.
Ang. 11. cod4t.
TO BE SOLD VERT CHEAT!
A Light W A GGGN almoll new, with a frame—
and a pair of harness (Englilh collars) has never
Been used—price 90 Dolls.
A Horse 16 hands high, seven years »ld— and a
new chair, with a falling top and harness— 320.
Enquire No. 331, Market-street.
August 24. dlw
This Day Published,
| And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of
Second and Chefnut streets,
Price 3-Btbi of a Dollar,
Observations on certain Documents
Contained i* No. V and VI of
" The Hi (lory of the United States for
the year 1796,",
In which the charge or srtcu'.ATiox a^ainft
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secrztary of the Triasur, is FULLY
REFUTED.
irMiTTstr gr aiustir.
This publication presents a concise statement
of the base means pra&ifed by tilt Jacobins of the
United States to asperse the characters of (host
psrfons who are considered as hostile to their Jifor
ga-iiing schemes. It also contains the cor
respondence between Mr. Hamilton and Messrs.
Monroe, MuhlenHurgh and Vtnable, on the fub
jeiS of the documents alorefaid, and a series of let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha
milton, proving beyond the possibility of a doubt,
that the connection between him and Reynolds,
was the rifult of a daring conspiracy on the part
of the latter aad his alTociatcs to extort money.
£5" A discount of one third from the retail price
will be made in favor of wholesale purchafcrs, for
cash. Orders to he addreflod ta Mr Yovno.
1 he Norfolk Mail STAGE.
THIS Stage starts from the GEORGE Tavern,
at the corner of Second and Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, rvtry Tutfday, Tturflay, and Satur
day, at 3 o'clock, id the irorning ; arrives at Do
ver the firft day, at Snowhill the second day, at
Northampton Court House the third day, and on
the morning of the fourth day the paflengcrs fL'.d
a fafe and comfortable packet to convey th«m to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton feiry,
every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday, and the
Stage starts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
Monday, Wednesday and Friday ;|putsup at Snow
Hill the firft night, at Dover the id night, and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day '
Thediftanee on this route, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is to miles less than on any stage route
between those places,
TOO much cannot be (aid in favor of the road,
which is most excellent indeed. The proprietors
willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
paffengtr, who, after having performed this route,
will fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the fume
distance, so good a road in America.
August 11. dim.eolf.
Imported in the latefl arrivals from
Amflerdam and Hamburg, and forfale by
B. J. Bohlen,
A Urge njfartmcnt of fine French Cambria,
Platilias Russia and Dutch fail cloth
Bnttannias Writing, port, and print-
Rouanes ing paper
Brown Holland Dutch calf skin«
Checks and Oripes Prime madder
Ticklenburgs Shell'd Barley
Oznaburgs Looking glalTcs
White sheetings Hollow glafii wart
Diaper Slates
Brown rolls Coffee mills
Umbrellas Brass kettles
Hair ribbons Scythes and draw knives
Black and white laces Toys assorted in boxes
Bed Holland Gin in pipes
London particular Madeira Wine
July 14. m&thtf
I M~PORTED
In the (hip America, James Ewinj, mailer, from
Hamburgh,
Brown Hollands
White Platilias
Ticklenburgs
Coarfc Linens
Tapes
Looking Glaffe. ? in
Glals Tumblers J
FOR SALE BY
George Pennoek.
Augu/I 14. 3aw
Young Hyson Tea.
4s chests of a superior quality—Also,
100 do. of Hyson,
Imported in the Woodrop Sim], and for sale by
the I'nbfcriberi, corner of Second and Pine
street.
C. Haight.
June it. • eotf
Imported in the Jhip Pigou,
And for sale by John Morton, No. 116, South
Front-street,
Hyson
Hyson Skin f TEAS
Young Hyson (
Imperial J
April 20. eotf
Chocolate and Mustard
Manufactured as usual,
Ginger and Pepper ground
Shelled or Pearl Barley
Bhiladelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder
London Porter
Taunton and Burton Ale
Red Port and other Wines, eithe bottled,
ar by the pipe, quarter-cask or gallon—suitable
for exportation or home confumptiofr—
For Sale by
John Haworth.
No. 98 south Front street
By John Fenno, N»- il9
MRS. G RAT TAN
, INFORMS her friends,and the public in general,
i that her house. No. 19®, Market-street, will con
, tinue open during the fieknefs.
Board and Lodging ui a separate room, ten
bollars, in a double room, right dollars.
| For the convenience of those gentlemen who
have not amilies in town, Mrs. Shattan
will receive gentlemen to dioe at halt a hollar
a . Aufrnfl 7 <).' —
TO BE SOLD, ~
And pojfcjjion given immediately,
ALARGK cv o (lory brick Hoofe,handfomely
situated in Princeton There are four rooms
and a large entry on each floor, and'five rooms in
the garret, a range »f back buildings 51 feet in
length, aDd a piazza of 57 feet. There is a pump
in the yard, an excellent kitchen garden, at th®
farther end of which are a carriage house and two
(lables, one of which is new, 44 feet long, with
flails in the two (tables for 37 horses. The heal
thiness and pleafantnef. of its situation, aad the
number of genteel and agreeable families in and
near the town, render it a desirable fetreeat for a
gentleman from the city. Ihe commodioufnefs ef
the house, its central position, and the largeaefs of
the stables, make it every suitable for a tavern, for
which it has always keen considered as a capital
(taad. Inquire on rh« premises, of
ISAAC SNOWDEN, jun.
Prine-ton, Ang; tj _ ij—dtwiawlf
Coughs, colds, asthmas,Tnd
CONSUMPTIONS.
Jufl received, by Wm. G*irFiTHs,Na.i?7 % South
Second.street, e frefli supply of '
Genuine Bal/am of Honey,
AMedicir.e invente J by the late sir Johtl Hill
(who knowledge as aßotanift procured liim
the appellation at the Linnsus of Britain) and is
•onfidered in England as a certain curt for the above
complaints j it it also of lingular efficacy in the
Hooping Cough, " ■
It may also be had retail of W. A. Stokrs.No.
fil, South Second street, and T. Snrt, jj t New«
street, in bottles at 75 cents each.
Wm. GRirriTHs having observed the happy ef
fect of the medicine, (several cases of cures hav
ing come witkin his own knowledge) and the great
demand for it has induced him to order a large
f u PP'7> a part of which he has just reteived.
Auguji 3. law3w
A Cook wanted.
1
A WOMAN wbo understands the bulncfs and
can bring good recommendations, may ind employ
and receive generous wages by applying at No. 67,
north Seventh-street.
Wanted to purchase,
A pair of (lout, well broke Horses, young and
found. Enquire at Mr. (Sellers* Hotel, Chefnut
ftreet. •<
Application must be made immediately.
Auguji ta •$/
InfuranceCmpanyof Noorth America'
THE Stockholders in this company are here
by informed, that, pursuant- to the fifth
claufcof their Charter, and at tKe requcft of a
" Number of Stockholders, who, together, are
proprietors of Six Thousand Shares, and up
wares," a general meeting of the Stockholders
will be held at the Company's Office, on Mon
day the 15th day of September next, at 11
o'clock, A. m. for the purpose of filling up a
vacancy in their Direction ; and taking into
confideratlon such Regulations or Bye Laws as
may beprefented in conformity with the Char
ter of Incorporation.
EBEN. HAZARD, S<c>y.
July 29. wttftSa.s
The Partnership,
UNDER the firm of FREEMAN 53" Company,
is difiolved by mutual confest. All persons
having any demands against the said House are de- •
fired to render the fame to T. B. Freeman ; and
those indebted to the House are desired to make pay
ment to him—By whom business will in future be
carried on,at his Store, No. 39, South Front-street.
PETER BORGER,
INFORMS his friends and fhr publie in general
that he has removed from No. 119, corner of
Arch and Fourth, to No. 105 North Front, be
tween Arch and Race ft reefs.
July %'■ aaw4w
Rofs Sim/on,
—£AVI FOR SALS—
T Hoglheads,
Excellent Coffee in < Tierces, and
C. Barrels.
A (mall parcel of nice cocoa in bags
* few puncheons Jamaica spirits, fourth proof
Superior Tereriffee wine, eld and in Madeira pipes
An invoice of jewellery and hosiery * be fold by
the package * .
A few hampers best EnglHh cheefis.
July 17. dtf.
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than any other in
the City—
OF FARIOUS SIZES,
From Bby 6 to 19 b^.l4,
By the Tingle Box or Quantity, may be had at the
Store of the Subfcribcri, corner of Aich and Froat
flreel.
James C. Iff Samuel IV. Fijher.
Philadelphia, June 9, 1797.
This Day is Published,
BY MefT. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Kice> and the
othci Bookfeiltrs,
Price One Dollar and twenty-five cents, *
Elegant 'y printed on Wove *nd Hob
prejfed,
By John Thcmpfon,
A COMPARATIVE VIEVTOF
The Constitutions
Of the several Stales with each other, and with
that of the United States; exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of eaeh Constitution, and
dafting together their most impsrtant provisoes,
under the several heads of adminiftratitui ; with
Notes and Observations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Carolina, ,
L L. D. and member of the Congress of |he (
United States.
Dedicated to tha People of the United States.
N. B, A few Copies printed en an inferior pa
per, at 3-4thsof a dollar.
Fchruary 6 *wf
SATURDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 2, 1797.
Imported inthefIiipMANCHESTER,
. Benjamin Shewell, Master,
From Bourdeaux, and for sale by the fublcriber,
1 No. ii Walnut Street.
Bonrdeaux Brandy "J
, Irish market claret in cases ( Entitled to
Medoc wine, in do. I" Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatreyd.
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter calks
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
4000 bulhels Liverpool fait;
Aug. 24. tut&stf.
A PERSON OF INGENUITY, lately arrived
from Europe, wilhes to find here a place in
the quality of a Diredor of a Glass-house, Chryf
tal of all kinds, having particular means for the
conftruflion of the kilns, pots, 4cc. and polfeffing
likewise the articles used in the Olals houses of
England and France, having worked a long while
in most of them. Every exertion will be made to
render the manufactory deserving of public appro
bation— He, who wishes to speak to him, will find
him at No. 175 Front-ftieet.
August 14. « 4t
Far sale or to be let on ground
rent,
Ayahaih Lot of Ground {
O ITU ATE on the north-eift corner of Wal-
nut and Fifth streeta f fronting the State-
House square. This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walnut street, and one hundred thirteen
feet and an half on Pifth street ; there are at
present two small two story brick houses, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
All 0, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient Itores, wharf, &c. situate on
Water-street, between Mulberry and Saffafras
streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east-
Avard ninety-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
ave the convenience of a public alley adjoining
on the north fide, and are a very desirable fiftua
tion for a merchant, flour fa£lor,or others who
may have occasion for storage of goods. This
property will be fold on very reasonable terms
for ca(h. For further information apply to the
printer.
July Hi- m&wtf
The Subscriber has for Sale,
A large aflortment of India Muflini,
coarse and fine
India Calicoes
Sooty Romalls
B'ue Cloths and Checks
P Bandanna Handkerchiefs
Blue rod and Oilli Handkerchiefs
An invoice of Iri(k Linens and Sheetings, well
alTorted \
A box of Diapers
Silk Umbrellas
Two boxes of fine Spices, eotaining Nutmegs,
Mace and Cloves
Black Pepper of firft quality
Kaft India Ginger
Java Sugar
A quantity of Madeira Wine
Ditto «f Gin »
Roll Brtmllone
Mordecai Lewis.
Augnf i». 3awim
Cedar Shingles.
r | , HE fubferiber has a quantity of 3 feet Cedar
_L Shingles of a .superior quality, for sale at 13
dollars pgr thousand.
William Hallo-well,
No. 133 North Third-flroet.
July »7- eoiat
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT agreeably to an ait of Congress ef the
United States of America, passed at Phila
delphia, the 18th day of May, 1796 ; laying du
ties 011 Carriages, for the conveyance of perfofls,
which (ball be kept by or for any person, for his
or her own use, or to let out to hire, or for the
conveyance of pa(Teng*rs, the several duties and
rates following, to wit :
For and upon every Coach, 15 dols.
upon every Cfariqt, X 2 dols.
upon every Post Chariot, 12 dols.
upon every Post Chaise, la dols.
upon every Phaeton, with or without top,
9 dols.
upon every Coachee, 9 dols. ,
■pon oth*r Carriages, having panhel work t
above, with blinds, glafles or curtains, ,
9 dols. (
upon four wheeled Carriages, having fra- ,
med polls and tops With Heel fprin&s, 6 ,
dols.
■pon four wheeled Carriages, with wood
eiy>r iron fpring# or jacks, 3 dols. .
upon Curricles with tops, 3 dols. a ,
upon Chaises with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols.
upon other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols. ,
upon two wheel carriages, with lteel or ,
iron springs,"'3 dols. ,
For and upon all other two wheel carriages, a dols. |
upon every four wheeled carriage, having .
framed pods and tops, and reding up- |
on wooden spars, 2 dols. ,
The Collectors of the Revenue for the firft Sur- ,
vey of the Diftridt of Pennsylvania, will attend
daily, until the 30th day of September next, for ,
the purpose of receiving the duties 011 Carriages, at .
No, nl, in Race or Saffafras-ftreet, in the City of s
Philadelphia-; at the house of Daniel St. Clair,Efq. ,
in the County of Montgomery ; and at the house
of James Chapman, Esq. in the County of Bucks ;
of which all persons poffelfed of such Carriages are f
dclircd to take notice. ,
Notice is also giyen,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dif- e
tilled spirituous liquors, that licences will be grant- ?
ed to them ; one licence for carrying on tho busi
ness of retailing of Wines, in a loXs quantity, or c
in less quantities than thirty gallons—and one li- 1
cence for carrying on the business of retailing Spi
rituous liquors in less quantities than so gallons, at
the fame time and at the fame places, by the ofic- f
ers legally au&orifed to grant such licences. f
WILLIAM NICHOLS, a
tiifpeitor of the Revenue of the firft fur. >1
vey of the Diftriit of Peunfylvania.
Offiee of Infpe&ion at Im
Philadelphia, jd Augull, 1797. i
, Thomas Herman Leufker,
North Fifth street, corner of North a I fey, No. 54,
, HA» FOR SALE,
red Bour<leaux Wine in cases an 4
boxes, fix years old
White Graves Wine in calks
Ticklenburgs v
Ruflia Sail Cloths
Ratals Duck
Bag Linen
He Awns
I>iaper and Table Cfodk
Empty hag-s *
C«m«non German Cloth
.An aflortmentof black coloured Ribbon*
Fine German Laces
About twelve tons Rufiia clean Hemp
Clover .Seed
Italian Soap, in small boxes, for family life
Window Glass ujj 220
1 HIS I>AY WAS PUBLISHED, *
And for sale by 7HOMJS DOBSON, at the
Stone House. No. 41, south Second street,
E T - r ENINGS at HOME ;
OR, THE JUVENILE OPENED.
Confiding of a variety of Miscellaneous Pieces "For
the inftruflion and amusement of YOUNG PER
SONS—SixVolumesfcandfetnely printedand bound
np in two volumes, price Two Dollars.
The variety and excellence of these pieces are
fu la, that the book needs oriy to be known to be
universally efleemed one of the tjiift valuable pub
lications th t can be put into the hands of young
persons.
" Delightful talk to rear the tender thought,
To teach the young idea how to (hoot,
To pour tlx treih iniirudlion o'er the mind,
To breathe th' enlivtninj spirit, and to fix
The generous pmpofe in the glowing bread."
T HOMSON.
August *4. Hlwf4W
"■ TffISDAY IS PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS DOBSON, at the Stone House,
No. 41, south Second street,
Letters and Conversations,
Between several Young Ladies, on improving and in—
teresting fubjefts.
Traaflated from the Dutch of Madame ,U Camban,
with alterations and improvements,
Printed onfne paper, and neatly hound,
Price one dollar.
AMIDST the tide of modern Romance!, painting
tales of extraordinary distress, or of desperate cr
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," and
which it would be for the honor of young ladies to
be ignormnl of, this little book comts forward to so
licit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the hounds of real lift, the proper, bfcaul:
elegant and natural dignity and importance of the Female
tbarUler is exhibited in an interesting pouf of view,
andprefcati examples of real and attainable excel
lence.
The publisher was fa much pleased with the peru
sal, that he was persuaded he (heuld do a pleating
service to the community by fending it into circu-
Auguft 24 —mw4w
T* Majlers and Pilots bringing up VeJJeU
from Foreign Portt to this City.
TT 7" Here as sundry infringements have lately beo«
VV made on the laws of this state for the pr»
venting pestilential or infedtioua diseases, either
from ignorance or inattention thereto, it is tho'e
expedient at this time to piiblifh the following es»
tracts from the lawa of *id April, 1794, 7th awl
Bth fe&ions:
HEALTHUOFFrCE.
June 6 th, 1794.
ExtraS ef an all for fecurivg the city and por%
of Philadelphia from the introduSian of fefti
lential and contagious diseases.
Sect. 7. And be it further enacted, that every
maftcr or captain of any ihip or vessel coming from
fea(vefiels actually employed ; n the loading trade
excepted) and bound to any port or place within
the jurifdnftionof Pennfylvania,fha!l cause hisfhip
or vessel to be brought to anchor,or otherwise flay- £
e J in the (Iream of the river Delaware, oppefitu to
the Health-Office on State-Island aforefaid, and
there to remain until he ftiall have duly obtained a
certificate or bill of heal Ji from the ReCdent Phy
sician., Andil, previ.ufly toobtaining<uch certi
ficate or bill of health, any master or captain (hall
fuffer his ship or vessel to approach nearer than the
laid Health-Office to the city of Philadelphia, or
(hall land, cause orfuffer to be landed, or brought
on fliore, at any place or port within this Coro
mcnwealth, or at any other port or place, with the
intent ol being conveyed into this Commonwealth,
any person or perfens, or any goods, wares or mer
chandize, or, if after receiving such fcillqf liealtjk
o. certificate, he (hall neglect or refufe to deliver
the sam- to the Health-Oflicer, such master ot cap
tain (hall forfeit an(l pr.y, for each and every fucii
offence, the fumof riVE hundred dollars.
And the captain or master of every ihip or ves
sel shall fend 3 fafe and commodious boat to bring
the physician on board, and shall in like manner
convey liim back to the Health-Office, after he has
concluded his official examination ; And while he
is making such examination, or in cafe any subse
quent examination by the Health Officer or Con
, felting Physician, agreeably to the d.redlions of
this aA, the master or captain (hall expole or cause
to beexpofed to thefearch of the Resident Phyfi
cian,or of the Health Officer and Consulting Physi
cian (as the cafe may be) each and every part ef the
ship or vessel, and fhail present to his view eacl)
and every person or perfens on board thereof, and
and shall also true and .fatisfaSory answers make
to all such questions as the Resident Physician, &c.
at the time of examination shall ask relative to the
health of any port or place fr.m which the ship oa
vessel failed, or has lince touched at—the number]
of persons on board when the ship or vessel entered
on her voyage—the number of persons that have
fhice been landed or taken on board, and whea
and whererefpeiSively—what perfens on board—
s they have been during the voyage, or (hall, at
the time of examination, be infe&ed witji any pes
tilential or contagious disease—and what it the pre
fect state and condition of the perfects on board
with refpciS to their health or diseases. And if
any master er captain (hall refufe to expose as afor*»
aid, to the search of any of the officers
n if he'ih&W strteea/any jift person, or in any other mon
ger deceive the proper officers aforefaid in hie answers
uth captain or master, for every such offence, (hal
forfeit and pay the sum of five hundred dol
lars.
Sect. 8. And if asy person or perfens whatso
ever (the Resident Physician, Sic. excepted) lhall
go on board any vessel, before the maftcr thereof
has received a certificate of health in the manner
direiftad, tvery person fe offending, (hall pay the
um of OKI HUNDRED DOLLARS.
IT being abfelutely necessary that the foregoing
feAioni (hould be punctually complied with, the
febferiber, in compliance with his duty, mull ex
act a rigorous observance of the fame, or else be ~
under the ncceffity of putting the laws in force.
Vi'm. ALLEN, Health CJfcefr of the
' Port of £keMetpbia.
July 14. *3*
[VoiVME XII.PHILADELPHIA,
\ . .
Saturday ZPimm, September 2.
CITY HALL, September 1, 1797.
THE Infpe&ors of the Health-Office,
tsn the recommendation of the College of
Physicians, and other gentlemen of the fa
culty, and ?fter-iconCultation with lgveral of
thfii* fc-llow citizens, on mature deliberation
adopted sundry refolutiofls founded on the
laws for regulating the Health-Office, which
in their opinion would be molt likely to pre
vent the spreading of infe&ios-; those reso
lutions were fubmitt;cd to th~ Governor, and
at the enrneft solicitations of the Infpe&ors,
were fan&ioned by his Proclamation of 23d
August, 1797. The Infye&ors flatter
themselves, that as far as those resolutions
have been aftedon, the mod salutary effefts
have folkiwed ; and had they been carried
into earlier.operatioo, greater benefits would
have resulted.
To impress this belief on their fellow-ci
tizens, and as far as poffihle to draw forth
their co-operation, the infpe&ors deem it
only necessary to state the manner in vnich
thofe'refolutions have been afted on.
No sick person has been removed unless
the attending physician declared to the
health officer that their particular situation
made it necessary-—no force has been used
or ever was contemplated.
When persons with infeclinus fevers have
been situated in confined places, every per
son belonging to the house, as well as those
adjoining, except the necessary attendants,
have been prelfingly advised to remove—
yellow flags have been placed at the doors
to present unnecessary intercourse—and in
the neighbourhood of Penn street, were the
infeftion appeared most malignant, a fence
has been eretled to stop the communication
with that part of the city. The city hos
pital with several out buildings have bee»
kept in complete ordf r for the reception of
the sick, and a number of tents pitched for
.the accommodation of families, whose con
nexion with the sick made it necessary for
them to remove.
Dost. Cox—Notth Second street.
Dost. Pleafants—No. 133, South Se
cond street,
Dofl. Church—No. 1, Little South W
ater street.
DoA. Dobel—No. 180, S. Second ftr.
Dost. Leib— Northern Li
berties, were appointed to seek out and ad-
Jninifter relief to such persons as required
ailiftance.
After this view of the fubjeA the infpeft
ors trust that all sick or indisposed persons,
»s,well as those employed inthe.care of them,
will fee the propriety of an early applica
tion to their family physicians, do&or Duf
field, confuling physician for 'the pert of
Philadelphia, or to the before mention
ed physicians appafnted by the board,
that the necessary relief may be admin
istered—and the infpe&ors again request,
that the physicians generally will re
port such cases as may come within their
knowledge, that the statements of the pro
gress of the disorder may be publiihed ttf
their fellow citizens.
Approved by the board,
JOHN MILLER, Jun. Chairman.
While the foregoing address was under
eonfideration, being explanatory of the for
mer resolutions of the board, the fallowing
new members requefled and had leave to
withdraw.
STEPHEN GIRARD,
JOHN CONNELLT.
CALEB LOWNES,
JAMES SIVAINE.
For HAMBURGH,
mq ' I 'HE Copper Bottomed Ship
■*" FA TO RITE, John
\\ Thompson, Mister, now at
Bright's wharf, and will be rea
to take in on Monday next,
*" part of her cargobeing engaged
and reidy to go ojj board. The ship is lo well
known, that it is needless to describe her. She
is now in eompleat order. For Freight or Pas
sage, please to apply at Mr Jeremiah Warder's
Compting Houfr, No. -42, North Third street,
ortothe Master on bord.
August jo.
For SALE,
On board the said Ship, Swedilh Iron, aflorted
Hollow and Window Glass, Oeinvjohns, Wrap
ping Paper for Sugar Refiners, Rugs gjf 1 & 2
Quality. Please to apply as above.
wf&m4w
Excellent Bourdeaux Brandy
Ditto ditto Claret in cases
Just received, and for Sale by
„ Rundle & Leech.
Aug. 21. 2awtf
City CommiJJioners Office,
August 29, 1797.
IN pursuance of an Ordinance of the Select and
Common Councils, passed the 22d day of May laiV
Proposals in writing will be received hy the City
Commifßoners for one month from the ift of Sep
tember next, for letting to rent on leases for one
year to commence the firft da; of January (leit, the
following public property of the city—
Th£ wharf and landing on Vine Street,
Also on Saffafras,
Mulberry,
And High Streets,
Chefnut and Walnut Streets, Draw Bridge, with
the Scale and Filh Houses, Spruce, Pine and Cedar
Streets.
The cellar under the City-Hall.
The Tavern at the middle ferry on Schuylkill,
with the lots contiguous thereto, (except so much
thereof as lhall be occupied by any buildings erect
ed for the use ofthe Colleger of the Tolls, or be
necessary for the toll-gates.)
Ang. 3 3tawim.
TO BE SOLD,
And immediate pnffejfton given,
AConvenitnt well finifhed Brick Tenement,
with a cook house and other out houses, situ
ated in a pleasant part of the borough of Wilming
ton, in the Stste of Delaware—The lot of ground
>i! forty feet front on West-street. and extends
the square to Pafturc-ftreet, on which is
ereAed a (fable and carriage honfe.
- ALLEN M'LANE.'
ArJy-jg.
PHILADELPHIA,.
SATURDAY EVENING, September 7.
Lijl of all the Burials in the felteral Grave-
Tards of the City and Liberties of Phila
delphia, as taken from the books kept by
Clergymen, Sextons, &c.
From Thursday noon till Friday noon.
I
Norte of Burial Croutid. cj
Christ Church o o
St. Peter's o o
St Paul's * o o
First Prelbyterian o o
Second Prelbyterian o o
Third Prcfbyterian i o
Scotch Prelbyterian o ©
Associate Chureh c o
St. Mary's Chapel I I
Trinity Church c o
Friends o o
Free Quakers o I
Swedes o I
German Lutheran , x o
German Calvinifts o o
Moravians o o
Baptists © 0
Methodists I e
' Univerfalifti „ • .0 o
Jews ; o o
Potter's Field o 1
City Hospital 3 I
Kensington 3 1
Coates's * e 0
Total for the last 24 hours, 10 6
EntraEl tf a latter from an American gentleman in Pa
rity to bis friend in city, dated May 25.
" rhe departure of M——e is not less a fubjecfl
fubjefi of rejoicing to the very few Americans
here who are still attached to the genuine princi
pies of their government, than itjis a striking exam
ple of the discernment of our illuflrious PreGtJent.
Candor obliges us to avow the unequivocal unifor
mity of Kir. M 's political conduft since his
arrival in this country—ip no inftaoce has he devi
ated from the path, that the jacobinicaj fa&ion must
have pointed out, not ceased tovilify whenever a
popular occasion offered, not only our constitution,
as being formed on unequal principles, but the im
mortal Walhington and Adams, as meriting the
fate 'of Cqcfar and Louis. It i» however a source
of real consolation, that if his diplomatical abili
ties have b en found incompetent to support the
refpedability of his couutry in this republic ; they
have not been crowned with that compleat success
he has unccaCngly aimed at. There is fca-cely a
man in the councils of 250 or 500, whose, talents
and patr ; »tifm have avoided the Orleans'knd jaco
bin fadion.but depUres the unhappy difftfntions of
the two republics, and will assuredly (land forward
at the firft convenient opportunity, to unite our
countries by the mod indiffoluMe ties of amity.
It is.lprefunie.unneeefTaryto enlarge on Mr. M—'s
political life here, as his recal fulficiently evinces
that he is held in America in' that point of view
he ha« so jullly and uniformly merited. While I
am fpeuking of public men, the duty I owe to my
country renders It impoflib'e for me to pass over ill
silence the conduit of Mr. S h, the United j
States Consul in (his city ; his avowed principles
are perfectly cong\ nial with those of Mr. M e ;
he has been the faithful organ and interpreter of
the fentimenti of his protestor, illuft rated by all
the virulence' cf expreflions, which his lmallktiow
ledge of the French language enabled him to effeit.
The force of his mind is unequal to the taflc of sup
porting a good eaufc, or of aiding a bad one ; and
wearether'fore more indebted to his inability than
his intentions ; the former is so flagrant, that e
ren his warmed advocates are compelled into the
confefliom To supply in some meafurc this insep
arable defeft, he has a secretary, or as is termed
here, a chancellor, a Frenchman by birth, not less
unequivocal in his opinions, or less vigilant in dif
um that has neceflanly palled every part of our
governmental operations; it it in this way that our
leaders have been cenfurcd here, and even vilified
—our citizens represented on the eve of a revolu
tion. and ready to embrace the disciple of a Robes
pierre, or any pnuffary of dtfpotifra,"
One Darius Moffett, has lately set up a Rights
of-lfoan paper at Paris,Bourben County, Kentucky.
His motto, (Libirtaiit Natali Solum) he thus
renders :— Liberty and our free-ism Rights! The
sublime principle of patriitifm is a thing who'ly a
bove the narrow comprehensions of so ignorant a
herd as the Btsbes of this country.
To the Printers of Newspapers in Pennsyl
vania.
Gentlemen,
The fubjeft of the following observations
being of general importance, I request yon
will publish them in your several papers,
and oblige
A NATIVE AMERICAN.
THERE are few political duties more
important, but ljk other important duties
there are few to, than the du
ty of ele&iou. If representation be in
tended to express the will of the citizens,
surely none but eifizens ought to be fuffered
to meddle with eleiSions. For if others
than citizens interfere in eleflions, eledlions
are no longer pure, representation is 110
longer an expreflion of the will of the peo
ple, but a corrupt and heterogeneous source
of adulterated opinions.
The inhabitants of this (late may be dis
tributed into several claffcs. First, Natives
qualified to vote at ele&ions. Second, Na
tives not qualified to vote; and, Third,
Emigrants into this state. This lad class
may be subdivided into other classes : ill,
emigrants citizens of some other of the
United States, and therefore of this state,
and resident here long enough to be quali
fied to vote. 2d, Emigrants citizens of
other states, and therefore of this state, but
not resident here long enough to be qualifi
ed to vote. 3d, Emigrants from foreign
countries, who have become citizens of
this state, and qualified to vote. 4th, E
migrants from foreign countries, who hare
not become citizens of this state, and are
not qualified to vote.
With refpett to emigrants from other
dates, there is such a general analogy be
tween the governments of the several states,
that there is less danger to be apprehended
from their opinions on our representation.
But when we refleft on the vast number of
emigrants from foreign countries, spread
every where through the United States,
and the prodigious discordancy between
the of their governments and
ours, *e mult view with Tome apprchenfion
the effect of' their interference in our elec
tions, till they have been lo.ng enough a
mong us, in some measure to forget their
own prejudices, and adopt ours. In all
governments, but especially in a democratic
government, opinion is the support of the
goVernment, and unless the opinion of the
eleftori harmonize with the principles of
our government, the voice of our represen
tation will be at war with the principles of
our constitution, and our government will
gradually or suddenly be subverted—A fear
ful refle&ion ! wherywe survey the motley
variety of our inhabitants, and the careless
conduA of our ele&ion officers. We have
among lis French, Germans, English,
Scotch, Irish, See. some who fled from op
pression, some from poverty, and some from
the gallows ; some who have been bred up
in ignorance, some in villainy, some in the
bigotry of fuperflition, some in the delusi
ons of infidelity, some in the chains of des
potism, and some in the confufions of anar
chy. Of the French, some admire the old
tyranny, some the licentiousness, anarchy,
and irifurreftion of the revolution. Of the
English, some are for a seven years parlia
ment, some for a parliament of. one year,
some for a republic, some for a limited mo
narchy, and fqtne for the divine right of
kings. Two rebellions within 30 years in
Scotland, mark the Strong passions and preju
dices .in the minds of the Scotch. Of the
Irish it tnuft be ovfrned, that the permanent
examples of riot and mifchief, which they
fee before them at home, render them too
often dangerous inhabitants of other coun
tries ; and in many instances they carry
that hatred, which they bear to their own
government, into every other government
under which they live. With what an in
undation of corruption mull such a mass
of discordant opinions, principles, manners
and habits threaten to iverwhelm America,
if they are fuffered a!« at once, and before
they can' be gradually correfted by ours,
to interfere in our eleftions, affeft our re
presentation, ai}d operate in ojir laws ? How
carefully ought our constitution and our
laws to guard against a sudden or great in
trodu&ion of such foreign and heterogene
ous materials into the adminiflration of our
government. And how carefully ought
our eleftion officers (especially in the pre
sent convulsed state of Europe, when the
minds of all emigrants from that country
must be greatly inflamed) to watch over
the execution of the election laws, with all
the tenderness of conscience and fan&ity of
an oath. For this vigilance and diligence
they are answerable both to God and to
the state. To the state from the obligati
ons of a public duty, every deviation from
which ij an indiftable offence : To God,
because they have solemnly called on his
name, to witness the manner in which they
execute this office. If judges of courts of
justice, even in small mattss», adhere with
conscience and exa&nefs to established rules;
much more ought the judges of the great
court of the citizens, at elections, adhere
to the fundamental rules of our government
in the mofl important part of Its adminiflra
tion ; in that part of it the 'administration
of which affesi the whole. For the fatis
fa6hbn of such as may not have enquired
into the rules which our constitution and
laws have laid down for ascertaining, who
are entitled to vote at eur elettions, I shall,
in another paper, give a short, but I hope
a just, view of the existing laws' on this
fubjett ; adhering to the distribution of the
inhabitants, which I have already stated,
into natives of this state, and emigrants
into it.
A NATIVE AMERICAN.
From the Virginia Gazette, &c.
No. V.
A DEVILOPEMENT OF THE CAUSES OF THE
DISTURBANCES BETWEEN THE. AMERI
CAN AND FRENCH REPUBLICS.
Addrejfed to the Citizens of America.
MY FELLOW-CITIZENS,
I SHALL make no apology tiow for
conlideriug Mr. Jefferfon the head of what
is called the French party in America 1 Nor
will it be deemed a reflection by himfelf, I
presume, to be thought the head of a party
which he himfelf, it would appear, esteems
the most honorable in all "its body. Yet,
however honorable>it may be, to be consider
ed the head of a republican party, as in
truth it is, I cannot agree with that distin
guished charadfcer, enlightened as he may be,
in some of the things he would attach, as
necessary, to those principles.
That his excellency, the vice-prcfident,
is a sincere and devoted friend to republican
ism, I never doubted. But that he ever
was some things, which the letter now to be
examined into fliews him to be, I never could
have fufpe&ed. With refpeft to our ideas
of republicanism, which is of itfelf but an
indefinite thing, we indeed differ, and
yet both be honest. But the impropriety of
being the head of a French party in Ameri
ca, when that nation are doing all the in
jury in their power to us, having never struck
ft) enlightened and virtuous a patriot) is to
me indeed astonishing. Well might Mr.
Jefferfon fay then, that " our political situa
tion is prodigiously changed, &c."—from
" that noble love of liberty and republican
form of government, which carried us tri
umphantly through the dangers of the war,
&c." That noble love of liberty which
carried us triumphantly through the dan
gers of the war, was attended with an
attachment to our own country in preference
to all others ; and not a disposition to invite
our enemies, by declaring to them our di
visions and feelings in their favor, to make
aggressions, and perhaps' invasions on us :
Nor would there have been a man in Ameri
ca, I am persuaded, less apt in the late re
volution, to have held out a doftrine like this
to Great-Britain, than Mr. Jefferfon himfelf.
How it can be patriotism in the one cafe,
and uot in the ether, even admitting that
an attachment to Great-Britain in preference
to our conntry had taken jplace, I cannot
conceive. But let lis examine the change,
from our fermer dispositions towards Greats-
Britain, which is fvppofed to have taken
place on the principles laid down in the letter
itfelf, without regard to the leaning which
has aSually taken place towards France.
" Instead of that noble love of liberty,
and that republican government, which car
ried us triumphantly throngh the dangers of
the war," fays Mr. Jefferfon, " an anglo
uonarchico-ariftocratic party has arisen.
Their avowed objedl is on us the
substance, as they have already given us the
forln of the British government.
How far we have deviated from that no
ble love of liberty by the standard here laid
down, viz. a departure from a republican
form of government, (if not wholly depcnd r
ant on the different ideas which different
persons entertain of that indefinite term)
would require an elaborate difculfion, upon
the abftraft principles of government, which
neither the bounds of the present enquiry
permit, nor the nature of the accusation
renders necessary. The other part of the
charge, which is rather more definite and
reducible to some ihore certain rule, includes
every thing necessary to be enquired into on
this head. If an anglo-monarchico-arifto
cratic party has in reality arisen, then indeed
have we deviated from that noble love of li
berty, and that republican government,
which carried us triumphantly through the
dangers of the war. But the existence of
monarchy and aristocracy in the hopes and
wishes of one party, or »he imaginations of
another, is no proof of the adtual existence
of either among us. It is easy to afefcrtain
the real existence of these, if any such exist
ence there is.
The government of America is a system
now well understood. It is in that, and not
in the hopes and wishes of one party, or the
fears or imaginations oftmother, that we are
to look for she real existence of these quali
ties, either in form or fubflance. If by the
form, are mean; those ads which, it is said,
assimilate us to the British model, and the
fubjlance, an endeavor to reduce tliat form to
a hereditary right of afting, then i$ it easily
demonstrated, that no such form or sub
stance either, has yet existed, or been at
tempted, as it relates to monarchy. The
afts of pur government, which have general
ly been been said to assimilate that govern
ment to the British model, such, for instance,
as the banking system, excise laws, &c.
were the adls of the representatives of the
people, who have escaped the censure past
in that letter, of being in the design to in
troduce monarchy and aristocracy among us.
One of the highest (powers of the president,
is, his negative oifthe a£ts of the representa
tives of the people. Consequently, if the
form of the British government has been
given us in those afts, it has arisen, as 'I fuf
pe£t it ever will, from the democratic and
not the monarchic exertions'of our fellow
citizens. And with refpeft to the fubftari
tiating that form, whatever may have b<>n
the wish, nothing of the fort has yet been
attempted certainly.
The eligibility of the fame person to the
office of president, successively for life, is
the only pofijble channel in our government,
as it now ftanas, through which an approach
to hereditary monarchy can ever be made.
The late president, who has been accused
of being at the head of all fhis design, it ;s
to be remembered, came into office -with
more circumstances in his favor, than ever
can be expedied to accompany any other
man. Considered as the very fatherof those
liberties which ou,r present government was
meant to protest, he was twice eledltd by
the unanimous voice of the people of Ameri
ca ; EHid at the approach of the third elec
tion, the hedy of the people, who never stir
but upon proper occasions, and when stirred,
move in an irresistible torrent whichever way
they incline, gave such powerful proofs of
their inclinations to re-elect him, with the
fame unanimous consent, that not a candi
date would have ventuied forward as an
eledtor against him, who valued his reputa
tion with the people.. Yet, this president,
who has been accused of all this monarchical
design, in spite of all those strong appear
ances in his favor, to the great astonishment
and confufion of his accusers, retired to lead
a private life under that tyranny which he
had thus Uid the foundation of in his public
capacity.
No other man, it is almost certain, will
ever be elected, with the fame unanimous
consent ; or ever twice eletted, perhaps, in
his whole life. How then the fubjlance of
the British government, in its monarchical,
feature, is to be brought upon us, as long
as the present temper and government of A
merica prevail, is difficult to b« seen : and
with refpeft to its aristocratic likeness, I fee
no way in which that is to be fubflantiated,
except by a change of government, which is
alone the wish, of those who have pointed
those evils out.
An aristocracy, as I have always under
stood it, consists in a diftindt order of citi
zens elevated above the common mass, by
separate and exclusive privileges, honors or
titles. For the most part, these extraordi
nary privileges and diftinftions h*ve arisen
from, and been granted in consequence of
some noble atchievement ; and have become
hereditary from the vvillingnefs that man
kind have to perpetuate the memory of
great deeds, by continuing the credit and
admiration of them down through a train of
fuoceffors, without being able to continue
the qualities from whence those noble deeds
arose : Whence members of those fami
lies have acquired the appellation of nobility,
with a continuance of all those privileges
and advantages granted to their ancestors,
with a variety of titles, emblematical of
those great adtions. In America no sepa
rate and exclusive benefits or privileges
have yet been granted or attempted to be
granted ; and the present constitution of
the United States expressly provides £ Art.
I. Sec. IX. J that " no title of nobility shall
jbe granted by the United States." All cf
j sices and places of authority under that con
! ftitution, are expressly by elefticn, and on
ly during pond beW>ur, to.K-. j:- ' • ,{ of
in mod cases, by those who bestow t;; ti:.
Hereditary ftfccefiion to any place of hon
or, profit) or trust, is totally unknown to
the present government of America. Where
then the form of the British government, in
its arijlocraiic feature, has been' introduced
into this country, or how a design to im
pose upon us its fubjlance can ever be execut
ed, except by that deftruftion of our present
government which its enemies alone desire,
I am unable to find out. Whenever the
form or fubjlapce thher, of that government
is given to us, it mud be by the introdu&ion
of another constitution ; it will not be the
conditution that now exists, if it has in it
those qualities.
The introduction of the banking fydem
and excise laws, which are a part of the ad 7
minidration of our government, can have no
immediate relation with, or tendency to
monarchy and arillocracy, which would be
a material part of its principles, that I can
perceive. As well might we conclude, if a
tyrannical monarchy (hould pass one or two
laws in favor of the people, that it was one
of the mod democratic republics upon the
earth. Great Britain, it mud be remember
ed, as well as its banking fydem and its ex- 1
cife laws, has its magna charta its trial by ju
ry and its habeas corpus aft. Why not fay
then, that because that government has those
things, we (hould expunge from our Ameri
can fydem, all conjlitutional boundaries and a
greements between the people and their ru
lers, the trial by jury, and the writ of habtat
corpus ; otherwise, that these things too,
afjimilate U3 to the British model, and there
by render us monarchical and 'arijlocraiic ?
Either that, or an acknowledgment that the
British government is a perfeft democracy
and republic, mud be the conclusion from
this mode of arguing which has been adopted
againd the American government.
Admitting then, as I do, that it was the
adminidration of our government, and not
our conditution, that Mr. Jefferfon meant
by that form which this Anglo-Monarchico-
Ariflociatic party had given us, and were en
deavoring tofubjlantiate, yet I mud contend,
that he has fairly and positively said in the
preceding part of the fame sentence, that
our government is not a republican one ;
and therefore, does itadonifh me exceeding
ly, that Mr. Jefferfon (hould twice now
have entered so highly into the adminidra
tion of that government, of which he tho't
so badly., . Without making any comments
however on this circumdance, which would
but too naturally produce a disagreeable
retort for the many unpleasant things that
are said in that letter of the friends to the
government, I (hall conclude this paper,
with jud contrading the part of the sentence
alluded to, with a part of the fame gentle
man's inauguration speech as Vice-President
to the Senate, and leave every reader ta
comment for himfelf.
i he words in the sentence alluded to are
these—" lnjlead of that noble love of liber
ty, and that republican government, &c"—
Those of the speech are as follow : " I
might here proceed, and with the greated
truth, to declare, my zealous attachment to
the conjlitution of the United States, that I
consider the union of these dates as-the firft
of bleflings, and as the firjl of duties, the
preservation of that conditution which se
cures it."
This lad certainly (hews, at lead, that
", our political situation," had not so "pro
digioujly changed" from " that republican go
vernment which carried us triumphantly
through the dangers of the war," even on
the 6th of March, 1797» which was long af
ter his excellency's friend had left us, and
a considerable time after the writing of the
letter even, we may presume ; or, that Mr.
Jefferfon had then become an admirer of a
monarchical and arijlocratic government ! !
AMERICANUS.
Riehmond, Augud 20, 1797.
ERRATA FOR AMERICiNUS.
No. I. sth parag. instead of "in capturingthe
property of neutral nations"—r»ad, in taking the
property of their enemy in ihe (hi s of neatr;!
nations —and in the fame parag. instead ef " il
legality of captors," resel illegality of captures ;
and immediately after, instead of " the law of
nationsto which," read thelaw of nations which,
&c —No- 11. sth narag. instead of '• were recbrr
mended as read, were as
("eats. 9th pi ag. instead of, " and with so much
propriety," read, and with as much propriety—
and in fix lines after, between the words fram
and scene, add, of.
FREDERIC-TOWN, Augud 23.
Died, on the i2thirid. on his plantati
on in York county, Pennsylvania, AN
DREW SHRIVER, an old, refpedtabU
and independent farmer—be was near 85
years of age—left a widow of 87 —lived in
a, date of matrimony 66 vears—6s of which
passed on the farm on which he expired-
He lived to fee his offspring multiplied to a
freat number— 9 children, £2 grand chil
ren, aud 55 great grand children .in all
one hundred u*idfixteert persons.
A few days ago, a person by the name
of Robinson, living near the Sulphur Spring,
Berkely county, Virginia, put an end to
his exidence, by hanging himfelf. Thi«,
it is said, complcats the half doxen who have
taken their own lives in thi3 dadardly man
ner, in Berkely country within 12 monthi.
ELIZABETH-TOWN, Augud 30.
Melancholy Accident.
On Thursday lad, Mr. Stephen Le Fe
vj;e, refidiug betweaen this place and Rail
way, having by miftike eaten at dinner a
Toad Stool (agarius clypcatus of botanids),
with some common Mujhrooms fagarius
campcjlris) was fcized in the evening with
indisposition, and died tht next morning.
Having heard more than once of acf
dents of this nature, we think the follow
ing receipt to try the quality ofMufhroops
will not be unacceptable—Take an Onion,
Srip off the outer (kin, and boil it with your
Muihrooms : If the onion becomes black
of blue, there are certainly dangerous onfi
amongst them ; if it remains white, th<r
arc goodsBy this clay's M;nl.
NEW-YORK, September t.
MESSRS. M'ciEAN & LANG,
By giving the folio-wing a plate in your
impartial Gazette, yni will oblige
Jt SVBSCKIBF.R.
In your Gazette of Tiu'fday last, you are
pleafod to censure the conduit of Captain
Nathan Haley, of the (hip Hare -< bus, as I
conceive, upon a principle not fufficiently
warranted, from a fair co'nftrudtion of his
> own letter to Mr. [faac Clafon, dated Di
eppe, the 30th of April, 1797, you will
therefore excuse me f r attempting to cor
reft your miltake, and shewing that he is
not criminal in the eyes of thousands in A
merica. But so far am I from juftifying
Haley, that I do not hcUtatc to pronounce
him a confummiite villain ; yet I cannot a
gree with you, thst his malignant hostility
wa| chiefly directed agarsft the United
1 States. I cannot draw such an inference
from his letter ; and from the bold, auda
cious manntr in which he avows his degrad
ed principles, he is the more entitled to cre
dit. He tells Mr. Clafon, that lait Janua
ry, when he parted with him in London,
for France, it was hi» determination to pro
cure a French Commiflion, in Ijopes of get
ting revenge of his infernal enemies, (the
British, of course) and th*t when he return
ed with the Co'irmiffion, irwas his intention
to cut some vessel out of the Downs, but
getting the command of the Hare from Mr.
Clafon, his purpose was suited, knowing
that the principal part of her cargo belong
ed to his detested enemies, the Englilh, and
all ensured in London. This you construe,
that "he meint to go on board some vessel
for the express prtrpofe of depredating on
American property."—But the true |
confirmation is, that the whole being insured |
in London, he e*pedted that the Under-' ,
writers there, would be the foleJofers, and
so far his revenge would be gratified j he
fays,his " intentionwastohavethecargocon
demned, but had no idea of the ship sharing
the fame fate."
You again infer from his own declaration,
that " under the pretence of fattening on i
the property of what he calls his " detefled r
enemies," his objeft mufl be, and it is infer- t
rable from his declaration,to seize wherever t
he meets it, the propefty of Americans."— (
This conclusion cannot be drawn from any
declaration of his, for he expressly tells Mr.
Clafon, that were he to fuffer shipwreck, £
him, or no other Republican, should fuffer r
( on his account.
Thus it is pretty avident, that Mr. Ha- t
ley's malignity is pointed against Great- t
Britjin, and not America. It is true, like
all other Jacobins, he Is no doubt an enemy
to the government, and a pretended friend c
to the people ; but what profpeft he can a
have of overturning the government, by t
plundering its citizens, is not so reconcile- a
able.—He, like thousands of others in A
merica, is di ft rafted with a spirit of revenge a
against the British nation : —to accdtnplifh r
its deftrudtion, all principles of justice and ?
moranty are set at defiance. In the wild in-
coherent state which such a difpofi- ~
tion produces, even felf-intereft and reputa- a
tion are insensibly facrificed. Jacobins are
the enemies of all established government and
order in society, where they cannot ascend f,
to paramount authority ; and as it is im- v
possible for them all to be raised to such a
flatious, hence arises out of their jarring j
competitious for power, those mod detefta- •
ble of all tyrants, ANARCHY and CON
FUSION. But Jacobins arc not aftuatcd
wbolly by malice ; their malignity is strong- n .
ly tempered with ambition—gratify that and c
insure their power, they will make tolerable t(
mild despots ; but where malice alone gots
full poffeflion of the heart, it admits of no j e
palliative, nothing will fatisfy short of the j
total deftrudtion of whatever i$ the objedt 1 j r
of it. t j
I could almost venture to pledge myfelf 1 j
for the Jacobins, that they will be very de- t j
licate for Haley's charadter : but I would a ]
not risque a ctnt upon tht prudence of ano- w
ther class of enemies to Great Britain, who, j 1;
like Haley himfelf, are solely infligated by al
the spirit of revenge.—This class, in point f u
of number, are, perhaps, nearly equal to re
the Jacobins ; and, though they can all ca
vil against Jacobinism, and make great pro- V[
sessions of supporting the government, a- ol
gainst the attacks of the democrats, they tQ
have always joined them, and mfiny of them f„
even exceeded the generality of the demo
crats, in their imprecations against Britain. m
Let these men be cautious how they speak t f,
of Capt. Haley ; his condudt is a delinea- 0 f
tion of their principles ; he has enly done
away what many of them would have cc
done,and (till would do,we,re it in their pow- ; n
er. This aft of his, may serve them as a w
looking-glass ; from its refleftion they may j
fairly fee and examine the principles of their w
own hearts. OBSERVATOR.
STONINGTON, August 28.
" In the severe storm, on Friday night
the 18th inft. the house of Mr. Samuel Isil- or
lings, of Stonington, was struck with light- b)
ning; it firft entered the funnell of the chim- lo;
ney,—whence taking a diredtion to the ga- pc
ble end of the house, it shattered the roof
very much, —went down the end of the
house, stove a window to pieces, split the L
frame, and continued its course through in
ts the kitchen, fplittlng a large post by the •
door.—Other branches the lightning, L
proceeded down three smokes of the chim- ch
ney, split a large log into four pieces, toge
ther with the hearth stones, turning them Bt
over; split into several pieces One of the H
sleepers of the lower floor, on which Mr.
Billings and his wife had laid down; burst gr
the floor boards off, breaking them in two,
by the bed fide, within one foot of the heads gl
of Mr. and Mrs. Billings,—and even split th
the bedstead, that it fell, with no other in- A
jury to the two pcrfors than she deprivation
of their senses for about fifteen minutes."
. Same night a barn of Mr. Garden Gif- ha
* fords, of.Norwich, was Tet bn SreTytlte
lightning, \v!?ich~tog(ftTrcr with its valuable
j -concents, yiz. 12 tons of Hay, loofhockn
Jof Grain, a quantity of Flax, &c. were
entirely consumed.
Lnft week a Mohegan Indian, fail or, na
j' med Joshua Afhbo, in a fit of intoxication
attempting to step from a vessel in Tilly and
Miller's dock, to the wharf, fell into the wa
ter and was drowned.
i)
BOSTON, Augufl 29.
) Commotions continue to agitate France.
, s Riots were frequent. Two happened at
l" Bourdeaux about the 25th of July. The j
objeft to prevent the refufcitatibn of the '
system of terror, wh'ch was apprehended
The (lory of hoflilities between France and
Auflria, was founded on flight and acci
-3 dental skirmishing—the effect of trifling cir
-1 cumflances unauthorized by any general of
ficer and which was forgot almost as soon
as known. The Preliminaries of peace bet
wean the two countries it is well known are
signed. The definitives will be fettled by a
Congress. A degree of tardiness seem to
mark the gffembling of the Congress, but
Buonaparte fays, " Negociations continue,"
which mull figni'fy, that the work of the
' Congress is arranging and Amplifying, of
course, we presume, when that body meets,
" it will soon conclude the bufiriefs.
The French privateer, mentioned in Fri
| day's Mercury, has failed from Marble
head. We understand she is hovering round
' our in the Bay, and boarded se
veral vessels, which have recently arrived.
Messrs, Printers,
Notwithflanding what been said rela
j tive to the privateer lately at Mar
blehead, of her " innocent intentions" in
coming on this coast, it is ifaa that a rium
%r of American vessels have been captured
by the fame privateers and sent to the H»-
vannah, where they were fold without any
condemnation taking place whatever.
F A R N C E. '
COUNCIL OF FIVE HUNDRED.
July f.
, Barbe Marbois made a report upon the
resolution relative to fending new agents of
the directory to St. Domingo. He proved
that it was impossible to save this important
colony without a very adtive government,
but he did not diffimilate that its fate de
pended entirely upon the choice which the
diredtory should make. If they are good
men it may again flourifh : It is loft forever
if they are bad. ) He employed himfelf af
terwards i* tracing to them in some degree
the rout they will have to pursue to succeed
in lhis delicate million. They should seek,
said he, rather the general interest • han lo
cal prejudices ; te ally mildness to firmnefs ;
and convince irten, now habituated to a fa
tal independence, that the bonds of society
are mild, that the government is (till <
paternal ; to gain the hearts of the Spani- <
ards who are Frenchmen in name only ; tQ 1
encourage our allies of the United States, <
against the arbitrary cruising to which their 1
property has been incessantly the tidlim ; ]
" against a system of cruising, which, being <
authorized by no law, is a real piracy." <
July 7- <
A member, in the name of the commif- <
fion of the colonies, prefeuted a resolution ;
which authorizes the diredtory tb fend four <
agents to Cayenne and the Windward f
Ifiands. '
Boiffy.—T have reason to be astonished
that the commiflion should present you a
measure of this kind, without giving the
motives. I request, before Ay thing is
enadted," that a message should be addressed
to the diredtory, to ask of them a (late of
the adtual fituationof Guadaloupc arid Cay- -
1 enne.
Bourdon —I am nofroppofed to the fend- I
I ' n Jj 'he message, but I however infiit upon
j the difcufiion of the fubjedt. " Victor
Hughes is recalled he has encouraged
the cultivation of the colonies, but
also established in them the reign of TS-or,
which cannot be maintained. All property
has been struck by the hand of real feiz\ire,/
and it is now important to put an end to'
such an order of things.—l vote for thd c
resolution.
Dumolard.—Before we determine in fa- a
vor of the adoption of ffie measure, we:
ought to know whether it is neceffary, l and-, c
to ask this question of the diredtory.—l
{upport the opinion of Boiffy.
Vaublanc.—Whatever may be thecom
tflunications to be made by the diredtory,
they will not in the least change the necessity
of fending new agents to the colonies, p
The colonies not being placed under the t
constitutional reign before peace, we mufl
insure to them a provisional government,
which cannot be entrufled to any but agents.
I vote for the resolution. The resolution
was adopted.
Report of the Minijler of Marine.
June 26.
Three Swedish vessels, one Danish, and
one American, are carried into Carthagena,
by l'Epervier, capt. Viaud. They were
loaded with grain and brandy for enemy's
ports. B 1
July 1.
The American brig Maria, bound to
Lisbon, fS sent into Nantz.
July 5. E
• Ah American brig from Norfolk, for
Lisbon, is taken by La Munche, of Ro
chelle.
The American vessel, Mercury, from
Bremen, with tobacco, is taken by the ar
Hydra, of Nantz.
The American brig Hero, laden with
grain, is taken by the Intrepidity. P C
Many neutral vessels, taken by the En- f e ,
glifh, have been cut out of Gibraltar by w
the Droits de l'Homme, and carried to
Algeziras. pe
July 12. 'Jj
The American felfel the Sight Hoftey,
has been made to enter the river of Nantz. ; ai
P" : Tte P.n'.vn, American veflel, Rss been
de con.-i'i/fltd to 1 Orient.
kr, The American brig Mr.ria has .&*» made
:re so enter Minder..
The Williams, Campbell, American, has
la- been conducted to Calais,
on
id HAGUE, June 30.
■ r a- Preparations for an expedition against
England are still continued with the great
est activity at the Texel.
The 1 ft letters feom Dantzic state, that
:e. the king of Prussia has prohibited the im
at povtation into his states of dll forts of fo
he reign tobacco—This news has caused the
he highest alarm arfong the tobacco merchants
- and manufadtureas at Amlterdam.
nd 1
-I- 1 BALTIMORE, August 30.
ir " j AUTHENTIC. \
f Baltimore, Augufi2B, 1797.
3n j By the. Commissioners of Health.
:t- / IN consequence of a report spread by the
re I Philadelphia papers and ethers, that the yellow
a fever had madt its appearance on Fell's Point,
to the physicians of the town and Point, agreeably}
ut to the invitation given, generally attended a
meeting of the board, held at the Exchange yef
he terday morning, for thepurpofe of a full tnvef
>f ligation of said report, who invidua/ly gave in
:s, formation, that not a Angle instance of the '
\ EI.LOW FEVER, or other contagions j
disease, had made its appearance amohgft
i- any of their patients, artM that the inhabitants
e- generally enjoyed a better fjatc of health than
id was cujomary for them at thit season of the
e- year.
A woman lately from Philadelphia, on a
visit to this d/y, had occafionedfome uneasiness,
a- but is low on the recovery.
r- Jn order to remove all doubt refpefling that
in particular part of the city, concerning which the
i- rumor was raised, the board requefled three at
:d tending physicians, residing in the wefiern part
j- of the city, to visit the eaflern part, called Fell's
y Point, to enquire into the Jlate of the fid, which
service they cheerfully performed, and communi
cated the following report:
To the Commissioners of Health.
Gentlemen,
Agreeably to your requejl, we yejlcrday af
ternoon visited a number of Jfcl at Fell's Point,
e and are happy in assuring you, that we difeover
if ed nothing like a malignant, contagious, or
d yellow fever—the patients we saw all laborid
t under the common bilious remittent, and iwil/m
~ generally recover with common attention. We
- therefore can very confidently fay, that wt do
e not think that there is at present any cause of
d alarm.
r LTDE GOODWIN,
DANIEL MOORES,
c JNO. B. DAVIDGE.
i Pablifhed by order of the board,
, 1 Jos. Toifnsind, Clerdr;'
Baltimore, Aug. 29.
NORFOLK, Atfguft 26. •
Yesterday arrived the schooner Betsey,
1 captain Clark, 3 1' days from Martinique,
. and 25 days from Tortola: failed under con
l voy of the Bellona of 74, the Chatham of
> 44 R uns i and several lighter armed veflels.
r Under the lee of Guadaloupe several French
; privateer* got amongst the fleet, and captur
r ed one brig. On Wednesday last, near the
Capes, spoke a sloop that had part of the
crew of the Winnifred of Richmond, taken
- on her homeward passage from Antigua;
1 also the cixw of the brig Peace of Provi -
dence, taken on her homeward passage from
1 Surinam. The sloop was bound to, N«w
York.
1 i" ■ i»
; %\)t®a3ctte.
i PHILADELPHIA,
f SATURDAY EVENING, September 1
DIED —Mr. John West, Lumber- '
■ Merchant, in Vine-flreet. \ ;
city Hospital reporx
2d September in the morning. \
Admitted, fine# last report, \
Israel Canfield, from Win. Norris's, No. '
' 4, Mead Alley. \
j John Toy, Spruce corner Water ftreel.
Robert McGowan, from Henry Martiiffs
comer South and Penn flreets. \ c -
Mr?i. Margaret McCleoa, Mead Alley\ '
above Norus's.
Mrs. Riley, Relief alley, between
< Second and Front street. ;,
Mr. Foster, Mr. Frazier's, Front, three
.doors from Lombard.
Mrs. Parkes, Front, corner of Hoover's
*lley.
DISCHARGED. >'
Robert Fee, admitted 26th ult. e
John Bayman, 20th 1
DEAD—NONE. <5
Remaining last report l6 >w (
Admitted' 7 t
t
23 n
Discharged 2 <3
a
Remains in Hospital, 21 °
/Convalescents 5 fl
Sick 16 tl
22, four of whom are dan- 1
gerous. h
Stephen Gerard, *
(Signed.) Caleb- Lownes,
John Connelly.
Extra<S of a letter from a rcfpetf»ble ihercatile
house in Providence, Rhode-iflaml, te a gen- e<
tlemsn i* th« city, dated i;th qlt.
" Thi» town h2s unhappily been vilited by so
that mod alarming disorder, the Yellow Fever; g
and eleven persons have fallen vidlirns in the
eourfeof the last eight days,—but as no new 81
fnbje<fts are taken down, and three or four, who c
were quite unwell, are recovering ; there is F
pood reason to Halter onrfelves that we have V
seen the word of it. This contagious disorder, te
wasbroughthereby a vefTel from Nichola Mele."
Mr. Fenno, i= it nor aftonilhing, after such re- ar
peated proof? of its importation, to find some of jj.
the Faculty remains ft> (liibborn, a« still to contend
that, the disorder is generated in this country,
thereby making those upon the look-out, less vigi- f°
lant in their duty. lie
:n | Within the lad three days the Followlnj
accidents hare happened :—A boy,' abcu
de ten years old, fell from a tree, and brok
his arm ; and a mail fell from tfhe yard-am
as of a schooner, and hurt his head very badly
They weir both carried to the
■ hospital, and are in a fair way of doing well
Also, at the said hospital, t. fcaffold gav<
ifl way, :n the long entry-os the'new building
t- direftly over the arched door, up flairs, b;
which means four labourers, two of then
at white and two black, fell about 25 feet, t£
n- the lower floor, with their hods of brick anc
0- a quantity of mortar—by this accident oni
le of the white men had his thigh and jaw
ts bone bnpke, and received several wounds
he lived about 8 hours, during which time
j he never spoke—lie has left a wife and one
child : the other white man and the twc
i flacks were bad'.y bruised, but no bones
| broke. This fad misfortune ought to be an
\lnftnJcKve leflon t,o carpenters and masons tc
be lee.that their fcaffblding is made secure.
w 7
/, .BRITISH HOUSE OF COMMONS,
!yi July 12.
it The house in a Committlje of supply.
f. Mr. Pitt moved, that the sum of 38,4541.
f- H®* he granted to defray the sum which
1- the commissioners for fettling the American
le claims have awarded; and for.defraying the
is ; expence of that comrriiffion.
ft Sir W. Pulteny wished to know whether
any sums had awarded to Britilh claimants?
n Mr. Pitt replied, that matters were now
, e in a train of negociatlon, but nothing as yet
was definitively fettled.
a insolvint debtors.
, The report of the insolvent Debtors' bill
was brought up and read.
■I Mr. Serjeant Adair called to the racol
•e the House, that-right persons who
■. were 0 aicers had been long confined in
■I York £ a °l f°r non-payment of tithes, at the
s suit of the Rev. Gecirge Markham, reftor
b of Charlton, in the Weft-Riding 01 York
. (hire. -.3 hefe unfortunate persons must lie in
gaol for an indefinite terntf, because they
could not conform to the provisions of the
bill. He therefore proposed a qlaufc to ex
-1 tend r,e!ief Jo them. Theclaufe was adop
, ted, and niade part of the bill.
r g/zettf. marine list.
Pojit 'of Philadelphia.
1 The ship North America, Capt. Coffin,
f 47 days from Londonderry, is arrived at
New-Castle, with 350 all well.
They will be landed at Wilmington.
Aug 27, at 6, P. M. spoke the ship
Assistance, 50 gun ship, in company with
the Andromedp, long. 72, with the brig
Faithful, of Philadelphia, which they had
captured a few hours before. The Assist
ance pressed 27 paflengers.
Capt. Potter of the f»ow Sarah arrived at
Wilmiffgton, Delaware, from Windsor,
N. S. informs, that on the 26th ult. spoke
a sloop from New-Providence, bound to
Rhode Island, the mafler of which told
capt. Potter, that an American Eaft-India
man. which had been captured about eight
weeks ago by the French, and afterwards re
taken by the British, was lying in New-Pro
vidence when the sloop failed.
(The above is supposed to be the Asia.)
The brig Phoenix, Sellers, of this port,
on her passage from. Port-au-Pfince home,
is loft on Cape Hatteras—cargo saved.
The brig Sally, .Brown,* ot Norfolk, from
Jeremie to this port haS put into the Chefa
peak, after being chafad by an armed fchr.
off Chincoteague.
The snow Bbfton,Dougherty,from hence
to Cape Nichola Mole, is taken and sent
into Jean Rabel—vefTel and cargo con
demned.
The brig Peggy, of this port, wa3 cast
away on the 25th ult. on the Caicos—capt.
and crew
The fchr. Eutaw, Brewfter, from Cape
Francois, has gone up to Burlington, to fi
nifh her quarantine.
The Ship Asia is certainly re-captured,
and carried into New-Providence.
Wilmington (Del.) Aug. 3 1.
Yejlcrday arrived at this port the Jhip Boyne,
of New-York, captain Ferret, 12 weeks from
Amjlerdam, 'with 94 pajfengers.
%
New-York, September !.
arrived. Days
ScVr Argus, Allyn, ' Hmonnab
Weymouth, Guthrie, Philadelphia
Sloop Maria, King, do.
On Sunday, July 2, Scilly Island bear
ing North, distant 6 leagues, Capt. Hodg
es was boarded by a French brig,* mounting
16 guns and 60 men, called La Bone Or
der, Capt. Tobateorftoh, belonging to
•Cherbourg, who detained me one hour,
treated me very politely, and permitted me
to proceed on my voyage'; but informed
me that if I had not took the precaution I
did, to get all the property swore to, before
a Notary, and signed by Mr. Rufus King,
our Minister in London, that he aftually
should have taken me into France, or if
they had been signed by Mr. Johnson, for
that they had every reason to fufpeft that
he Jiad covered English property out of
London.
New-London, Augufi 30.
Arrived, sloop Profperia, Asa Williams
from St. Pierre. The following is extract- <
ed from his log-book.
August 12, inlat. 29, long. 67, ff)oke 1
brig Florida, of Philadelphia, bound to '
St. Domingo. At. 6, P. M. saw a brig ,
and fchr. bearing down for us ; at 10, the
fchr. brought us to, and proved to be a
French privateer, on board of which capt.
Williams was ordered with his papers ; af
ter which 4 Frenchmen were sent on board
his vefTel, who said she from Martinique,
and declared her a good prize. But as they
had taken so many prizes, they were unable
to man another and take care of their pri- 6
foners : They therefore ilifmilTed capt. Wil.
Hams on condition of his t iking their prifon-.
ag) en on board. They have taken" the /hip
~t J America, SMcrofs, of Philadelphia, from
ke jut. ChnLopher's Jbi Commerce, Rev
-m | Hold's of do. bound to Weft Indies ; and
j. fchr Nancy, P. Harding, from Norfolk,
i» for the Mole. They took from us a calk of
11. rum, add gave us in return two barrels of
ve bread. While (he had us in tow, fawa fchr.
g, beanng down upon us. The privateer stood
by tor her, and on coming within (hot, was fa
:m lutea with a few guns from the schooner,
to »/hich made her put about and make all the
tail (ne could. Theprifoners put onboard
ne capt, W. were 22.
V " i „ T A^ n ' vcd , fhi P Charlotte, Fitch of this port.
_ j W as bound from Baltimore to Amilerdam,
ae | with freight. Put in here on account of
ne t the mate and some of the hands being sick,
; '° I i un / ble to duty; 12 days out
es Back of Long-lUand, spoke a privateer brig
>n ! ot 16 guns- Oh the 24th, spoke ftlip Ju
to no, 76 days, from Amsterdam, for,New
'York, 26th, off Montock, spoke a brig
from Halifax, for New York.
3, | Aug 29, Sailed, ship Charlotte, Fitch,
or Amlterdam, with parfFengfrs.
!; bi.oomsbury! **
n iJV' Sold PU BLIC SALE,
ie O ■ a the , ci B ht f day Of .-^ptember
j W iaft. between the hours of twelve and five
I 0 clock in the afternoon, at of VVnr.
M V 'r :H r C£pe r' "1 />l rtnton > in <he 'State : of
nnov ' , y ' r ele S Jat frit tailed ULOOMS
w BUKY, the feat of the late John Cox, Esq.
, t decesled, with the appurtenance* j cinraihim;
j 400 Land, with a Juitable proportion
,ct arable, meadow, ami wood land. fh« prin
-11 ~ pal l'»vle is within a half a mile of
I renton, and on the rivtr Delaware. TlieiTtu
; anon and irtiprovement oi ; this estate such as
1- to be worthy .he attention i>f any gentleman
0 Wiibing to retire from tht city.— The tern*
„ wil be mad£ easy, as a great part «f the por
e chale money may remain in the hands of the
r purchaici tur a liberal term of credit, on eiv
| ing latisfadlory security Attendance will be
■- j given on behalf c f the ftM.-ers, who can
n make an mditputable title for the premises.
Y EJihtr Cox,
e John Stevetis,
Matthias Barton.
»- 2. dt?th
Notice.
SAMUEL RICHARDET,
TJEGS leave to inform the Mei,cjuiu« and his
JLI friends, that he will (hut up the City iav
ern and Exchange on Thursday next, during
1, the prevailing d forder ; the great body of mer
t chants having left frequenting the fameforfome
days. *
Aug. so. , djt
p THE SALE OF NOTES,
rn „ . VCrii !f d fur L thc fir * f f September is po fl.
1 poned until further notice • *
John Connelly, Auctioneer.
Aug. 3 0. Jt
\ FIVE DOLLARS REWARDT
e
j nAN away from the fubferiber, ah indented
, AV. Servant Girl, named Nahcy nderson, a
bout twenty years of age, short, thick set porfon,
- with short black hair ; had on when ibe wnt away,
t a dark calico gown, an old black silk 'cloak, and a'
. black fur hat. WKoever will ftcure said girl, and
give information thereof to the fublcriberr No. 1
Greenleaf alley, or, to the office of this Gazette)
ihall receive the above reward.
) All prrfocs are forbid harboring said girl, as
, they will be dealt with as the law diredls
MARY ANDERSON,
N. B. Said Girl 1 from Ireland, and has been ia
1 this country but a short time ; she was 1 nt to tin
wcrk-huufe for mifconduift, whsre the wa» taken
Cck and removed to the city-hofpiul, from which
. plaee ffee made her escape.
Jujrufl 30. * cn , t
, J-bUadllpbia, lStbJuly, 1797.
"\T Of ICE is hereby given, that separate pro
poials witii'fealed covers w ill be received
at my office untihhe Uever.t-h day'of September
next, to furnifli by contrail t-he following ar
ticles for the use. of the Army of the United
States in the-year 1798.
• First Contrail for
8 Sergeants coats "J
i MuHi ians, do. |
10 Sergeants veils j> Dragooni.'-
I»6 Privates coats j
116 Privates veils J
Sergeants coats
3Z do.
96 Sergeants vests 1
191 Woolen overalls Artilleriftt
191 Linen overalls , &
936 Privates eoats Engineers.
936 do. vests
1871 Woolen overalls
1871 Linen do.
144 Seigeants coats 1
71 Mufieians, do.
216 Sergeants vests
43» Linen overalls
432 Woolen do. Infantry.
1893 Privates coats
1892 do. vests ~
3784 Woolen overalls
3784 Linen do.
lit ContraiS, for 1288 Sergeants shirts
11816 Privates do.
12600 Socks
id Contrail, for 27a pair leather Breeches
3d Contrail, for 172 pair boots
4600 pair (hoes, No. r
8000 pair do. No. 3
4th Cqntradl, for 1032 Artillerists and Engi
neers hats
2108 Infantry do.
X 36 Dragoon caps
The whole to be delivered at the city of Phila
delphia, viz. J
One fourth on or before the 13th day of Fe
bruary next.
One fourth on or before the 15th day of A
pril ne»t. ' %
The remaining half en or before the jjthday
of June next. '
The articles are to be agreeable to such p*.
[ terns as (ball be dii eiled by the Secreury for the
DepartnTent of War.
Payments to be made as soon as the article
«!hall be delivered, and parted infpeilioo.
1 SNCH FRANCIS, Purveyor.
eott ithSep.
Red Port Wine.
Just arrived, by the brig Iris, capt Rhodes, from
Oporto,
Bed Port U"ine in pipes, hhds.and quarter cases
6c cwt. Cork, for sale by
Philips, Cranaondj'&'Ct).
July at. rJust publiflied,
And to be Told at the Bcokftores Of 11. (Sf P. y>tj
Rice, No. 50, Mlrket-Rreet 1 J. Ormrod,
No. 41, Chtfnut-ftreet, and W. Young, \ ,
i-orner of Chefnut and Seeond-ftieeti,
An accurate System of Surveying; "T
IN WHICH IS CONTAINED, .
I. Decimal factions, in a plain, concise, , e
, , ditu
anHca. y manner* trar
at The extraflion ef the fouare root.
3. Plain trigonometry, re Angular and ob-
lique. t
4. An exaft method to cast up the contents
ef lands. ,
j. Field surveying.
The whole being performed without the use
of scale and compares, on a table of logarithms. 1
In which is given some account of the variation
of the needle, and the causes of its attradlion.
By SAMUEL MOORE.
Anenft t. ""'l*
.Georgetown Bridge Company.
ExtraA of an a<£l pafFed by the Legislature of
the rtlte of Maryland on the 49th December,
1791, entitled, " Ah ail for eredting a bridge
over Potowmac river.
And be it enabled, that the said direflors or
iny two »f them foall and may require any sum
or sums of money in equal proportion ftom each
antl every proprietor, as may from time to time
be neceflary for carrying on the building of said
bridge ; and after giving three months public
notice, it fliall and may be lawful for the direc
tors to sue for and recover In the name of the
company such unpaid requisition, with all costs
*nd thai ges incidental thereto, and legal interell
thereon from the time the fame (bould have
bec-n paid : And the negleft or refuf.il to pay any
such requisition after public notice ihall have
been given at least for three months in all the '
newfpapersheiein before enumerated, (hall have r y
the efTeA ts forfeit all preceding payments made ;
on the share or Ibares so negleAed or refufed to ] bo
be paid to the ufc and benefit of the company." I dc
illation of such of the ftocEbolders as have not lai
complied with the requisitions heretofore made ' m
—they are as follow: On the ift November,,
j795, 10 dollar!, on the loth May,
dollars j an the 40th July, 1796, 40 dollars ; on |
the ift September, 1796, 40 dollars, and on the ,
ill November, 1796, 60 dollars. Caution is
now given that after the expiration of the time
limited for the continuance of this advertise
ment (three ihonths) the law will be carried
into rigid and complete effeA against all delin- N
queiits.
By order of theD'^eAors,
WALTER SMITH, Trtafunr. ''
fjeoryetowny May 1, 179f. rawjra j,
Just Received, b'
From Batavia( via Providence)
* few Boxesof Spices, consisting of
■Nutmegs, Cloves and («ace
For tale by ''
WILLINGS &FR ANCIS,
Ptnn.flreet.
nay jo its
Davis's Law Book Store, '
No. 319, High-Street. j
GEORGE DAVIS,
BF.fNG busied for some time past in prepara- 1
tions for removing into his prfffent house, has
been under thcnecelTity of poftponinguntil this day '
informing the gentlemen ot the Bar generally thro'
the United States, that -his spring importation of
law books is now arranged and ready for lale, an
terms that he trusts will entitle him to the like pre
freence he has experienced for leveral years past.
Catalogues, combining the mod varied collee
tion ever imported irttp this country, are printed
and will be delivered on application.
Jnne 37. 6w
City CommiJJioners' Office,
June n, 1797. 1
IN pursuance of an ordinance from the feleft
. and common councils, palled the aid day of
May last, appointing the city coirnniflionert,
and prescribing their dutiea, fcAion 9th,
>OTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
That the city is divided into five diftriAs,
each to be under the fuperintendance of one of
the city commissioners, whoistobe individually
rclporifible for the eleanlinffs of the fame, and
are as follcw.
DriftriA No. 1. Prom the south fide of Ce
dar-street, to the north fide of Spruce-street, un
der the superintendence of Nathan Boys.
t. From the north fide of Spruce-street, to
the north fide of Walnut-flrcet, under the super
intendence of Hugh Roberts.
3. From the north fide of Walnut to thefouth
fide of High-flreet, under the fuperintendenee of
Jolt>h Claypoole.
4. From the north fide of High-street, to the
north fidir of Mulberry street, under the fuper
intendenee of William Moulder.
5. From the north fide of Mulberry street to
the north fide of Vine-street, under the fuper
intendenee of Nicholas Hicks.
The cleaningof High-street to be in common.
0" A stated meeting of the city commission
ers is held at the Old Court House, in High
ftreet, every Tuesday evening at 5 o'clock.
July 14. eoim
Stands for Draymen, Iffc.
■ln pjrjuante of an Ordinance from theSeUfl and
Common Councils,bearing date tbe lid day of
April, 1797, providing for tbe appointment of
City Commissioners, £sr. Sect, tbe 15th.
'""pHE following places are fixed upon by the
J. said City Commissioners f«r Stands for
Draymen and their Horses.
In Vine-street, eastward of Front-ftrect, on
both fides. t
Safiafras, High, Chefnut and Walnut-fttreets,
eastward ot Front-street, on the no. th fide only.
Mulberry-street, fauth fide fr»m Front to
Third-street.
Front-ltreet, east fide from VineHtreet to
Elrrith's alley. ,
Front-street, from opposite to Black liorle al
ley to Hamilton's stores, east fide.
Water-street, weft fide from the north end of
Stomper's or Moore's stores to Pine-street. -
Penn-ftreet from Pine to Ce Jar-street, weft
Drawbridge, north fide, east of Front-street.
Spruce, Pine and South streets, eall of Front
street, south lide. _
Dock-llreel, .between Walnut-street and the
flag itone croffiugs, east fide, opposite George
oSecond-ftre-jt, o Second-ftre-jt, between SalTifrat, and Vine
llreets, weft fide.
Fifth-ftreet, east fide from Chefnut to Mul
berry streets. _ , _
SafTafras-ftreet, from Third to Fourth-street,
* a No dray or horse to stand within ten feet of
""STANDS FOR HACKNET COACHES.
north fide from Fourth to Fifth
Fifth-ftreet, between Chefinut and Walnut
n.ftli betwwn Third and
A Literary Treat.
jfujl fublijhtd, handfomtly printed On wiring
paper, price I dollar,
A new edition of that popular and entertaining
work, entitled
THE FORESTERS, an American Tale ; being Ft
a sequel to the history of John Bull, the Clo- A
thier—ln a series of letters to a friend, with the ad- k c
dition of fn o letters, alluding to recent political
tranfaAions in America.
The following extraA from the Clavi* Allegorica,
shews the principal charaAers that are introduced:
John Bull, the kingdom of England
His Mother, the Church of England
His Wife, the Parliament
His Sifter Peg, the Church of Scotland
His Brother Patrick, Ireland
Lewis, the Kingdom of France
His Mist.-ess, the Old Conllitution
His Hew Wife, the National Rcprefentation
Lord Strut, the Kingdom of Spain
Nicholas Frog, the Dutch Republic '»
The Franks, the French Republic 'S>
The Foresters, the United States of America
Robert Lumber, New-Hampshire *6>
John Codline, Maflachufetts 33>
Humphrey Plowlhare, Connecticut
Roger Carrier, Rhode Island 5o»
Peter Bull Frog, New-York
Julius Cxfar, New-Jersey 1
William Broadbrim, P«nnfylvania titj
Caffimar, Delaware the
Walter Pipewood, Virginia but
His Grandl'on, GeoTgeWaftiingto« j
Peter Pitch, North Carolina mo
Charles Indigo, South Carolina be
George Trulty, Georgia ets
Ethan Greenwood, Vermont
Hunter Longknife, Kentucky the
Black Cattle, Negro Slaves Ws
Rats, Speculators fell
Mother Carey's Chickens, Jacobins fqu
This popular and entertaining fatirieal hifto- tw
ry of America is attributed to the Rev. Dr- Bii-- fib
j KNAF. It hasa great flure of originality and a
-1 bounds with genuine 1 humour. It is continued the
down to the present time, and charaAerifes those L c
late political tranfaAions which have caused so be
much uneasiness in America. * inj
Sold by H. and P. RICE, Bookseller, T». t6, t hi
iouth Second Street, and No. jo, Marke' ftjeet. be
Junea6. 5
LAW BOOKS,
Latest London and Dublifi Editions.
H. & P. RICE, Book/filers,
. No. IS, South Second, and No. 50, Market street, bi
HAVE just received by the hte arrivals irom G
London and Dublin, their fprfng imj>orta- at
tien, conllfting of a variety of the latest and moil
approved Law Books, which, added to those alrea
dy on hand, forms the mod extensive colle&ion ev
er offered for sale in this country. They theiefore
beg leave to notitx, that from the nature of their Jfl
connexions in Dublin, they are enabled to fell IrisH • *
editions (as they have hitherto done) at the very f«
lowed prices. The following are among the litcft o
publications.
Vefey, jun'rs Reports Ih Chancery, » ti
Peakc's Cases at Nisi Prius; Ridgeway's Reports t
in the time of Lord Hardwicka ; Floyer's ProAers I
PraAice in the EccfefiaftiCal Couru ; Barton s fe
Treatise 011 a 9uit in Equity; Tidd's PraAice of d
the Court of King's Bench in Personal AAions, 1 f
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise r
on Use» ; modern Report*, u vols. London edi- f
tion.
" H. and P. Rice expeA t» receive by the firft ar- f
rival from Ncw,York the 6th vol. complete of t
,> Durnford and East's Reports, the id part of Gil- <
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of ;
n nitv publications. 1
. June 16.
The History of Pennsylvania,
: d By ROBERT £KOUD,
Ig now in the jyefi, and will be publilhed,
with all convenient expedition,- by Zicha- 1
riah PoutsnN, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed proptfals, until the
3 f work is ready for the fubtcribers.
. July ig. "wtf
Printed Calicoes.
'• s
of JOHNHILLER, Jun. & Co.
ly No. 2 Cbefnut-Street,
id Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly allorted, very low on
e- (hort credltr
n- March 6. $
to Richard and James Potter
:r- HAVE removed th«ir Counting House to No.
45, South Fifth-ftrcct.
th August 2. w&f6t
of -/ 11 : ———— —-
Lancaster, Harrijburgb Carli/le y
J" Shippenjburg and Sunbury
t0 STAGES.
:r- '""yHE public are requcfted to take notice, that
JL the partnerlhip which has far some time fub
>n. fitted between Mathias Slough of Lancaster, and
m- William Geer, is now diilolved: bat, not as M.
■h- Slough infinuatesto the public without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fub
jeA from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 29th
December last. a recital of which is not now deem
ed necessary. Auy gentleman whs wilhes to be
, more circumstantially informed of the merits of
" f this business, by applying to W. ©eer, may have
the perusal of M. Slough'* letter, and then can be
°f at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfeAly jaftifiable in attaching him
fclf to any other person in the profeeution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place,
on Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
public were pleased to confer on the firft effort in
ets, this business, William Oeer, in conjunAion with
»ly. Meflrs. Reily, Weed and Wi'mer, is determined
to to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention anddifpatch that a aeal to oblige the pub
to lie can poflibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
; a l_ with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
render the paflage fafe and commodious, inform
j a { those wno wifo to patronire and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take'their feats at
George Weed's, the sign of, the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrilburg,
Carlisle and Shippenlburg. The fare as hitherto
' OHt eftabliihed.
For the further accommodation of the public,
a Stage will start every Wednel'day from the house
)r ß e of Samuel Elder, in Harrilburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
Hnc anc l re t urn from thcuce and arrive at Harrifburg
every Saturday, so that passengers destined for
lull Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed cw Mon
eet, dayS " WILLIAM GEER.
I.ancafter. Jan. 27, 1797-
; of N. B. This Line ef Stages ftarta from th«
house of William Ferrae, in Lancaster, on every
>• Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 p'cloik, pro
ifth coeding to the westward; and from the houfc of
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harriiburg every Wednrf
inut day m or n in g> on anae evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns
and from thence on every Thursday : performing the
fame routius daily as in its lour frcsa Philadel
□ phia. mv.'f
City of Wafliington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
Far the Improvement of the federal City.
A magnificeatdwclling-houfe 20,000 dollars,
& caih 30,000, are 50,000
I ditto
1 ditto 15,000 8c cafti 15»°°° 30,000
I ditto 10,000 & ca<b 10,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cafti 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cash
1 ca(h prize of ie,ooo I
1 do. 5»ooo each, are • ■*
xo do. 1,000 - - 10,00 c
ao do. 500 * " 10,000
00 do. too - - 10,000
110 do. 'SO - * 10,000
400 do. - • 10,000 (
i,OOO do. ao - ao,ooo •
15,003 do. «» - 158,000
16,739 Prizes. Pe
33,i6i Blank*. dri
5o»ooo Tickets, at Eight •ollars, 400,000 Bil
■ utt
N. B. Tofavour thofewho may take a quan
tity of Tiekets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be "1
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but oni :
And approved notes, securing payment in either
mon«y or prises, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received for any number not lefsthan 30 tick
ets. . t A
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of
the private buildings to be eredted in the City of 1
Walhington—Two beautiful deligps are already
(eleAed for the entire fronts on two of thepublie
squares; from these drawingsit ispropofed toered
two centre and f our corner buildings >as soon as pos
sible after this lottery is fold, and to'convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in Se
the manner deferibed in the fchemc for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduction of five per cent, will
be made to defray the necessary expenses of print- y
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National UniTerfity, to
be ere«j.ed within the city of Wafhingtcn. u
The real fecuritieagiren for the payment of the <j (
Priaes, are held by the President and two DireA
ers of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at g,
more than half the amount of the lottery. .
SAMUEL BLODOIiT. „
Tickets naey be had at the Bank of Col«m
---bia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Feter
Gilman, Boston ; of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
and of Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry.
te
Frtm the Ot/ego Herald. 1 f'
CAUTION. ; f
TTHHREAS a combination of men in this m
■»W county have undertaken to enrich them- t/
selves.by fabricating titles to sundry valuable traAa h
of land, the property of gentlemen living in New | c
York, Philadelphia, London and Paris, for which ' *
. traflsof Is rid Urge sums of money have been paid f<
1 to those fraudulent men, by innocent purchasers • •'
s It is therefore just thit public information thoiild a
s be given, to the end, that the injured may seek re- 11
I dress while the naen have property, and are to be
l found. Those who have been difcovered'are Tru- f
e man Harrifon, Joseph Witcomb, said now to re- t
- fide in the county of Saratoga ; Thomas Kelly and {
several others who go under fiAitious names. It is ,
- supposed that the lands offered for sale on those fa- [ ,
f bricated titles, are at least worth fifty thousand j {
- dollars. Such as we have aflual knowledge of are t
if as follows : Lots No. II and u, Otfegs patent, f
thousand acres each, the aAual property of William
Dellwyn, now of London ; lots No. j8 and 64, 1
- fame patent, thousand acres each, the property of i
Mr. Chaumont, now of Faris, and lames Avenll
and others, ot this State. There is some grounds <
1, to suppose that the lands of Richard Wells and
Charles Wharton, of Philadelphia, are under their
t management. —The Printers will do well to give
this a place in their papers, as well to caution the |
, public against purchasing those lands, as also to dc-
prive those men in future from imposing on indivi
duafs, which their education and addrcls have en
abled them to do heretofore. Witcomb has been
a fliopkeeper of some note in this country.
The following affidavits will set in a clear point
of view the wickednefsof those men, whichlwhen
the public have perused, will induer them to ex
cufc the interference of > Wm. COOPER.
Otfege, July 28th, 1797.
I Thomas Kelly, of the County of Otfego.hav
on ing been led into an error, by John Witcomb and
Truman Harrifon, of the fame County, to sign a
deed to them, for lot No. 58, Otfego patent, whieh
—* was the property of William T. Franklin now Mr.
Chamont's and others ; and further the laid Joseph
and Truman did persuade me to do this against my
° inclination, which was made out on the icth day
of November, 1793, or set back two years so as
to bring it to that time ; and further the Dame of
Pardon Starkstothat deed was a fiAitious name,
> there being no fach perlon there. To this I make
voluntary oath. THOMAS KELLY.
19th July, 1797-
On the 19th July, 1797. came personally before
me, Thomas Kelly, the subscriber to the above af
hat fidavit, and made solemn oath tb®t it contains noth
>b- ing but the truth.
ind ELIHU PHINNEY, Justice of the Peace.
M. On the ißtK>ly, ift 7. osme before me Jacob
fe ; Kibby, a person by me well kuown and worthy of
lb— good credit, who on his* solemn oath t!id fay, that
?th two of the parties abovementioned did make ap
m- plication to him this deponent, some June in the
be winter of 1796, to make them a deed for two thou
of sand acres of land in the Otego patent, and pro
:tve mifed this deponent a share ol the profits, on the
be sale of said lands, for his so doing ; and that they
W. made application several times for the fame purpoie,
im- which services this deponent as often refufed, de
the claring to them that he had no right to lands, and
:nf- coulddo no such thing ; which daring attempt on
this deponent's integrity he had related anong hia
the friends several times, previous to making this affi
in- davit. JACOB KIBBEY.
rith Sworn before mc,
ned ELIHU PHINNEY, Justice of the Peace,
at- Aug. 3- 'aw4w.
üb " Thirty Dollars Reward.
ded T? LOPED frofti the service of the subscriber,
sto -Hi on the 19th instant, a negro man by the
>rm name of DICK, nbout twenty-five years of age,
the and ftve feet nine or ten inches high; by trade
at a carpenter, and is a very lively briflt work
rfe, man. His eountcnance is very good—When
day spoken to, he converses with eale and coufi
jrS> dence, and is pretty sagacious. I purchased
crto the said fellow of Mr.Dubney Minor, in whose
name iie has been advertised in the Richmond
newspapers. During his lall runaway trip (last
:ufc s um mer) he wa» employed a considerable length
', un * of time, by some person near Dumfries, from
which circumftancc, I conje&ure, he has taken
7* another nothevn route. I forewarm all perfoDs
I or from giving bin> employment, ot any kind
whatever, and maftersof vtflcls and others, from
carYying him out of this slate. The above re
ward m ill be given if he is taken within forty
~ miles of this city ; and an additional sum, in
, L r v proportion to the distance he may be brought,
, ro . or the trouble and expence the apprehender may
0 r beat, iu bringing him to this place.
nef ; AUG; DAVIS.
Pa- N. B. His apparel was of the usual negro kind,
irns but he had more cloaths than is customary for
the them to pofiefs.
del- A.D.
f Rithisend, June H> 1797'
——Will be Landed,
Fioia or board the fuip AAive, Capt. Blair,from
Hamburgh,
ao baljs white Ruflia clean Hemp L.
1 calks Clover Seed si <
For Sale by
' y ' Thomas Herman Leujfer, th(
North Fifth ftr_*et, No. 34. tit]
000 , I £
,oo® Tuns "■ 1_
,000 William Blackburn,
:::: LOTTERY AND BROKER'S OFFICE "<
000 No. 64 south Second flreet. " j
!ooe npiCKETS in the Canal Lcterr, No. IT, which " j
coo commenced drawing the 29th May, FOR " ,
' po( . SALE. The price of tickets will rife in propof- "1
oon tion as the drawing advances, particularly on ac- « j
000 c#unt tJ" ® ve drawn pickets, prizes of « ;
' four thousand dollars each, on the last day ot «
,000 ,
drawing. "
,o°o Check Books kept for examination and register- «
,00 ° ing, in the Canal, No. 2, City of Wafliington, No.
,o°° J( and Paterfon Lotteries.
Also, tickets for sale in the Schuylkill bridge and <(
Perkiomen Bridge lotteries, which will begin ((
drawing im the course of the fpnamer.
The business of a Broker in all kinds of Stock,
,000 Bills, Notes, Land*, &c- &c. tranfaAed with the
utmoft attention. '
nan- June 2 to&f a g
n Erfkine's View of the War. ™
JUST PUBLISHED, in
ither By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
"ill No. 40 South Second street,
tick- [Price 31 Cents J
cn of A View of the Causes and Confequen- ~
ty of ces of the present War with France.
■cady By the Honorable Thomas Ehkink.
übl » May is § (1
ere« :——
h p em, STATE TRIALS. £
r», in' Sold by W. Yoono, Bookfeiler, No. J», South Se- tr
Hotel coad-ftreet, _ th
.will The Pennsylvania State Trials, w
print- rf~ioNtaining the impeachment, trial, and acquit- „
art of a [ 0 f FrancisHopkinfon, Judge of the Court of M
Ti t 0 Admiralty, and John Nicholfon, Comptroller Gen- (1
eral —In one large 8 to. vol. Price, in boards, j u
f dollars. <i
ireA- Young has for sale, a general assortment of
icd at B oo t 9. Also, Stationary, retail and by the pack
ege, well sflorted.and entitled to the drawback if
axported. , J n 'T 7 —*
cdem- e
FC J" pHESUBSCRIBER having been appointed by t i
' X the Envoy Extraordinary and Hinifter Pleni
potentiary of his Britannic Majefly, Geeeral Agent
,w ' f m ■(tilting Brililh creditors, and such particular »-
gents as they m«y specially authoriie, in prolccuting _
their claims before the csmmiffioners for carrying in
to eArA the sixth article ot the Tint? of Amity, C«a
---1 this mercc NtvifttUU bctuun hti Mritaurit VajeJlj and
them- the United SUtei if America, hereby gives nonce that
traAa he has opened his office at his hoefe the south east h
1 New corner of Chefnnt and fifth ftreett, Philadelphia, r
which I where he isreedy to receive ill claims or inftrudions t
npa'id for claims with the vouchers aud documents thereof, t
afers • t°r the purpoie of bringiog forward the fame agree- .
(horrid ably so the rules and orders which the board may J
...r. think proper to prescribe.
, 1 And as it wilt be foe the intercfl of all eoacerned,
~ that the several elaims be so Haled, end support. t
c ru " «d, as to prevent the delay which would orife from I
10 re " the necefliiyof obtaining further information, or ad- j
Ily and materials,from perlons redding at a distance, t
• '' '• the general agent thinks it hit duty to add, (fer the
ofc fa- direction chiefly of those, who, not having employ- J
oufarnl c< j particular agents, may leave the prolecution of
:of are their claims to his charge and management) that all
patent, such claims ought in particularto set forth—
William ift. The proper description and fitnation of the
md 64, creditor 01 claimant, end original debtor, refped
crty of ively. .
\vert 11 «d. The date andnatureof the«igital tontraftor .
rounds debt.
•lis and 3d. When, in wWt manner, and to what extent,
rr their the creditor or claimant wis prevented or impeded,
by the provifioo, operation or deftft of law, the 1
S^ e dccifioDs and praftice of courts, or restraint ot exe- ]
lon J cution, from recovering payment of the debt in
s . to . de - question. , „ . ,
inaivi- xhe lots and damage incurred or fuuattied,
ire en- j n confluence of such impediments, whether the
as been f Jlne Ba y have arisen from the infolveney, change of
(tuation, or death of the debtor, the lass of legal
it point remedy from laple of tim-, or othercaufetimpairing
h taken the value and tecurity of the debt, which would not
nto ex- have so operated if such impediments had notexilled.
3 ER. And jth. The particular grounds aod reasons on
which the claimant.maintains, in the terms of the
ro haT- treaty, that "by the ordinary course of judicial pro
'mb and ings, the ereditsr cannot now obtain and aftually
3 Qen a h "* in(l r * cclve fu " and adc q ustt compenfattoa" tor
, JL-h the loQes and dsmeges so fullaiued.
The general agent thinks it his duty further to fug
i°r T K get that the several claims Ought to be accompanied
1 Jolepn an( j f up po rte< | by the affidavits of the claimants duly
,*nft my s worn regularly atieftcd, both ai to the axiflencc
cth ckj Q f debts claimed, and such other cirCumftancct
irs so as „ mJ y bt within their own knowledge refpeAivcly.
lame of /v n d wherever the claimants in Bating the nature ot
is name, their evidence (which mull in every instance be the
1 I make best of which the cafe is eapable) have occaGon to
LLY. relVr flhthe tellimony of witueffes, it will b« proper
to general agent of the names aod plsofs
y before of tt fidenee of such witnelTei and the f»6i«to be efta
bove as- blilhed by their tellimony.
ns noth- Wm. Moore Smith.
Philadelphia, ]une B>h. i7qT. d
Peace. * r 01
ie Jacob For Sale,
orthy of That well known place, called Vandegritt's
ayi that Flttr,
lake ap- Nelhamiay creek, 18 miles from Pbila
le in the ladelphii, on the New York post road,
wothou- conta | n j n g 24 acres and 94perches. Upon the
n " pr °' premises are a large two ftery ftpne house occu
! °. n .L le pied asatvern, and a good one story stone kit
curoo'c' c ' len > 1 ' ar ß e f rime * g threlhing
floor, and I'orac out buildings—also a weir of
inJs and g° o< j fr > an excellent ice House. On
cmp't on 'his place is a most elegant situation fora gentle
uong his man's feat, commanding a view of the Nelham
this affi- iny to its jundlion wiih the Delaware, and thence
iBEY. across to the Jersey Ihore. It has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
:e. For terms apply to the Stih^riber,
IW4W. * MORDECAI LEWIS.
TA Mav 24. jtawtf.
btte, COLUMBIA HOUSE
nby the Boarding School for young Ladies,
sos age, -- GROOMBRIDGE with much pleaf
by trade ure and refpefl, returns her ftneere ac
k work- knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
When (he has received during four years reQdence in
d confi- Philadelphia ; and allures her friends and the
urchafed pu blic, so far from intending to decline her
in whose s c h o ol, (he has made a superior arrangement for
ichmond jhe more convenient accommodation of her
trip (last s c holars branch of ufcful and polite
ile length education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
rs, from Groombridge and mafltrs excelling in their
!>as taken reipedtive piofeffiona.
1 pcrfons Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets,
ny kind j, lne Jth; ~9 7. JimXrf
ers, from Th? fituatien is perfeftly healthy ; and made
ibove re- mor e agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
iiin forty 0 f g rnun( j adjoining the house.
sum, in —— _ . '
brought, y i lft übltjhed.,
lder may And to be had of Mcffrs. Dobfon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal Bookfcllers in, t'le
AVIS. city,price one dollar, twuity-five cents,in hoards,
jro kind, Views of the Origin of the
maiyfor Tribes and Nations of America.
A.D. Ey BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, m. d.
June 2«.
No. 183.
Dt/lriS of Pennsylvania, to wit ;
L. s. R E IT REMEMBERED, that on the |
D fifteenth day of June, in the twenty
firil year of the Independence of the United
States of America, Janus WoeDHouas, of
the said diftridl, hath deposited in this office the
title of a book, the right whereof he claims aj
author, in the wordi following, to wit:—
" The Young Chemist's Pocket Companion,
" being a Dcfcription of a Portable Labaratory,
" containing a Philosophical apparatus, and a
" great number of Chemical Agents, by which '
" any person may perform an endless variety of
f amuiingand inftrutfling Experiments,defign
"ed for the use of ladies and gentlemen, and *
" intended to promote the cultivation of the
" Science of Chemistry in ths United States of
" America. By James VVoodhousb, M. D.
" ProfefTor of Chemistry, in the University of
•! Pennsylvania, President of the Chemical So-
M ciety of Philadelphia, &c.
" At prefect ever)' thing that is not denomi
" nated Cbemiftry, is but a small part of a fyf.
" tem of natural knowledge.
Priestly on Air.
In conformity to the ail of the Cougrefs of the (
UnitedState3, intituled, " An ait for the encour
agement of Learning, by fecuringthe copies of
map*, charts, and books to the authors and pro
prietors of such copies, during the times there
in mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL, Clerk of the
Diftrifl of Pennsylvania.
July 18. djt—wstf
No. 188.
DiJlriS of Pennsylvania, to <wit :
. . T>B IT REMEMBERED, that on the
' ' X> twenty Cjth day of July, in the twen
ty second year of the independence of the United
States of America, John Fenno, of the said dif
tri&,hath deposited in this office the title ofabock,
the right whereof he claims as proprietor, in the
word's following, to wit :
" Obfervatiom on certaia documents contained >
" in No. V. and VI. of " The History of the Unit
" ed States for the year 1796," in which th« charge
" of speculation, against Alexander Hamilton, late
" Secretary of the Treasury, is fully refuted—
" Written by himfelf "
In conformity to the aA of the Congress of the
I Utitcd States, entituled, " An aft for the encour
agement of learning, by feeuring the topies of
maps, charts and books to the authors anrf propri
etors of such copies, during tha times therein meg.
tioned."
SAMUEL CALDYTELL,
Cltrk of tbt Diflriß of Pennfyfrarta.
July tj. W4W
Public Notice is hereby given,
'T'HAT at June term, 1797, a petition was
X presented to the Court of CoMmori Pleas,
held at York Town, in the State of Pennsylva
nia, at the inflaßce ef James Short, praying
the Court to supply a loft deed made by 1 ttr-
I tain Andrew Hickenluber, to Hugh Morrifon, 1
James Morrifon, and John Sample, executors
to Hans Morrifon, deceased, for fix hundred (
— acres of Land) fitoate in Menallen '
township, in the county of York .'—All per
-1 sons who have any objections to make to thitab
- jedl of the said petitiot are desired to attend at
> the Court Heufe, in the town of York, on the
: jth day of September next, otherwise the loft
' deed will be supplied.
JOHN EDIE, Clerk.
July 18. ' e*tSs
30 Dollars Reward.
jn AN away on itoturday last, two indented Sei&
, 1 IV vants, OiffordUally, a mulatto boy, abSut 17
, years of 'age, a Him light built aftivefellow, can
: read and write,five feet seven or eight inches high,
- I hat a heavy countenance ; had on a fuftian coatee
1 I and trowfers, a high crowned hat, fine fhoe6 &c.
I Allan Hellons, a black man, about 14 years of
> I age, five feet seven or eight inches high, a thick set
c 1 clumsy built fellow, particularly about the breech;
* j had*on a sailor's blue jackst lined with swanskin,
' I dark striped vest, fuftian trowfers, high crowned
R I hat, coarse shoes, &c.; each of them had several
1 shirts and several other cloathes with them. Thir-
1 ty Dollars will be paid for the runaways, or 15 dot
„ I lars for each, and reasonable charges, oa delivering
I them at No. 54, North Third-street.
y I The black fellow is about a year from Lew 1 #
„ I Town, in the County of Suflex, state of DeU-
I ware, and has taken the boy with him.
f. I July )t. mtu&fjw
M CAUTION.
c 1 "f TTHEREAS Richard Laki'has been at>
;s I V V tempting to fell a certain mefluage or tcn
y. I ement ard lot of,ground, situated on thefouth
I fide of Vine-fttreet, in the «ity of Philadelphia
le I containing in breadth, on Vine-street. fixteea
10 1 feet, and in depth, southward, feve;-ty five feet,
" 1 bounded on the north fide by- Vine-street, on
" the east by ground late of Samuel Rhodes and
I Sarah his wife, on the south by ground late ®f
I John Pemberton,and on the weft by another lot
I then about to be granted to Joseph Hulings—
_ I This is therefore to caution all persons against
I purchasing the above described property, the
, I fame having been mortgaged by the said Ri(>h<
S sard Lake to William Spade.
\ SARAH SPADE.
I July »4 eoaw
tie Mujical Injirument Manufaftorfy,
u " I No. 167, Arch-Strict.
I T T ARPER, harpsichord, grand, portable grand,
1 IT. fid:-board, pier table and fquate piano forte
I maker from London, returns thanks, to his friends
I and the public,' for their liberal encouragement,
le- I and hopes that by his assiduity and at<rnticn to ev
il- I ery branch of his tufinefs, to merit a cominuancx
ce jof their favors. Pir.no ir.ru s made ori tils newest
ge I and most approved plans, with pedals, patent,
I swell, and French harp flop, which hefl-tteis
I himfelf will ue found on trial by unprejudiced
I judges, to be equal if not fuperiorto any imports
I ed, and twenty per cent cheaper. Any inflru
- I msnt purchased of him, if »ot approved of ia
I twelve months, he will exchange.
S. 1 N. B. AUkindsof Musical mfimments
I uned, and repairec with the greatest accuracy,
lc . I dispatch, and on the most reasonable terms, l t ,r
t I ready money only.
•' I Second hind Piano Fcrtes taken in exchange,
l'" I May »c. Sum.
ier Forty Dollars Reward.
° r I away from the fubferiber on the fecj
lcr I Iv onddayof this iuft. July, a Mulatto Man,
l,e I named Will Bowzer, about forty years of age,
r f- 1 five feet seven or eight inches high, rather
e ' r I chunky made ; had on when he went away, a
I drab colored cloth coat, striped purple trowfers
I and jacket. It is probable he will change his
j cloathes, as he took a number with him. The
;(^e I said feRoV formerly belonged to Mr- Charles
' ot j Blake of this place; and it is expedled heha«
I made towards Jones's Neck, in the Delawara
State. —Any perlon apprehending the stud ftl-
I low, and feenring liim so that I can get him a
ce ' j gain, fhail receive the above reward if taken
, I aut of the county, and Twenty Dollars if in
J the county, and all reasonable charges if bro't
j home*
JESSE REED,
I Queen Ann's County, Maryland.
July 3. wit
July 3.