of the & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1367."]
1 his Day is Published,
Br 810 REN AND MA DA N,
And to be Sold at their Printing-Office, in Dock
ftrett ( by M. Carey, No. 118, Market-street ;
Thomas Bradford, No. 8, South Front-ilreet, and
George Douglafj, No. z, South Third ilreet,
(Price, neatly hound, tiv» dollars),
AN ENQUIRY
Concerning Political Justice,
And its Influence on viorals and Happiness,
By William Godwin.
THE reputation of this work is already well efta
blMied ifi Europe—lt is hardly neceflary for an Am»-
rican editor to fay mure than barely to mention, that
the Enquiry concerning Political Juftiee has ever
iiuoe its publ cation been a favorite performance with
ti c fr/iv,us or republican government. The stile is
pure, nervous, and classical; the ideas are strongly
marked by an original vein of thinking ; and, amongst
a multitude of other just and linking paflagei, the
author's delineation of the peculiar infelicities insepa
rable from the condition of a King, may be pointed
out as a most masterly specimen of philosophical dtf"
tjuifition. The latest London edition of this work
fells in this city at four dullars and an half.
January 24
This Day is Published,
Porcupine'S
POLITICAL CENSOR,
For December, 1796.
CONTAINING
Remarks on the Debates in Congref6, particularly
on the timidily discovered by the House of Represen
tatives in their language towards the insolent French.
A Letter ta the infamous Tom Paine,
In answer to his brutal attack on the character and
conduit of General Wafliington.
January 34.
Mas. G RAT TAN
Refpetflfully informs her friends, and the public in
general, that on Tuesday the ioth day of January,
lhe proposes opening, at No. 39, North Sixth
ftreet,
A Linen and Muslin Warehouse.
Book Muslins, from 6/3 to lif 11 per yard
Jaconet ditto, from 8/8 to 9/8 ptsc yard
Striped ditto, from 7/10 to 10/10 per yard
Fine Coffees
Tambour'd Book Muslins, from 13/9 to 2Jf per yard
India Muslin, from 11/3 to 15/ per yard
Sheeting Muslin
Jaconet muslin Handkerchiefs, from 4/3 to 6/ per hdkf.
Book muslin Handkerchiefs from 5/3 to 10/6 per hdkf.
Mufli-i color'd and border'd Handkerchief#
Dacca Handkerchiefs
Tambour'd Csavats from iq/"8 to lifll
Pocket Handkerchiefs
Cambric, from 11/3 to 16/3 per yard
Table Cloths
Huckabuck To welling
Women's Cotton Hole, frorft 6/% to 13/* per pair
Dimity from $fio to 6/ii
Men's Silk Hose
Tambour'd muslin Handkerchiefs from 11/ ii to 1 %si
Irish linens for Gentlerren's Shirts, from 5/5 to 9/7
And a variety of other articles.
N. B. Orders received for all kinds of ready made
Linen, Gentlemen's Shirts, ruffled or plain, Cravats,
Pocket Handkerchiefs, &c. &c.
Houfhold Linen, &c. &c.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 3 1-1 dollars.
A full ruffled ditto, 4 dollars.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 5 dollars,
A full ruffled itto 6 dollars-
A plain ftiirt, made and marked* J 1-1 dollars.
A full ruffled ditto 7 dollars.
A plain ihirt, made and mark'd, 6 dollars.
A full ruffled ditto 7 i-a.
A plaia ihirt, made and mark'd, 6 i-i dollars.
A very fine ruffled ditto 8 dollars.
Linen included.
January 13.
Particular Teneriffe Wine.
50 Quarter-calks Particular Teneriffe WINE,
( Of a (uperior quality,
For Sale by
ji. Mar pie iff lfrael W. Morris,
No. 60, Dock-street.
tts6
January a
Clocks and Watches.
LESLIE AND PRICE,
JVe. 79, Market street, Phuadelphm,
HAVE IMPORTED, by the late arrivals from
London, » large aflortment «lf WARRANTED
WAi CH E 6', confining of horizontal, capp'd and
jewel'd Gold Watches, with fe'-onds, of superior
workmanship and elegance j a!fo capp'd and jewel'd
and plain Gold Watches j capp'd Scjewell'd, capp'd,
/econds, day of the month, and plain Silver Watches ;
eight day & chamber Clocks; elegant French Clocks
with marble frames ; eight day and thirty ho»r, brass
works, 4cc.
Decembet 22, 1796.
For Sale,
By George Defchamps, No. 91,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Prirne Salmon, in barrels
and half barrels
Ditto Herring and Mackarel.
Smoaked Herring in barrels and kegs
Ditto Salmon, by the dozen or single one
Dry Codfifti, from one to fifty keritaU
Fine and coarse Salt
Nova-Scotia and French Plaster of Paris, in the stone
and ground, for manure and ftueco-work
December 1 {tf
A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRST & id proof.
Gin, of 4th proof, in jiipej
Jamaica Spirits, 4tU proof, in Hhdj
Old Hock, in cases of 40 dozen each
Glass Tomblerf, in pints Mil half-pints
Window Glass, in boxes, of difierent sizes
Hazleniits, in faek»
Whiting
W°k"™.d £ "»<"
tc Spanifti Brown J
For Sale by > ~
January 4
d3taw2w
ALSO,
dim
PETER BLIGHT.
l *
WEDNESDAT EVENING, JANUARY 25, 1797.
NOTICE.
Persons having Goods en board the Ship Persever
ance, James Williamfon, mailer, bound fr»m Ham
burg to this Port, and lately pat into New-York,
where the Veflel is discharging, will please apply to
THOMAS and jOHN KETLAND.
Philadelphia, Jan. ai, tf
A Pocket-Book.
LEFT, yesterday morning, at, or LOST coming
from the lower ferry inn to Philadelphia, a Red Mo
rocco Pocket-Boqk, one ten dollar bank
note, fundrv papers, leiteri, instruments, and two
prom sTory drawn by C. Jackson & Co. dated
ift Novembrr, 1796, at ixo days, for' <oj dollars
each, and indorsed by the person in whose favor they
are drawn. Any one who will deliver the book with
the papers, letters and notes, to the printer hereof,
(hall have the money for their trouble, without ar.y
questions' asked.
N. B. The papers can be of no use to any one but
the owner, the means of negotiating them being flop
ped.
January i
The Stockholders of the Pennsylvania
Population Company
Are requeued to meet at the Company's Office, No.
53, North Fourth-ftrect, on Wednesday, the ill of
February next, at 12 o'clock, for the purpose of taking
into confederation the proceedings »f the Company, and
of making further afTelTments on the shares, m order
to defray the expencet of the Company agreeable to
the 20th, Article of the Constitution.
By arder of the Board.
SOLOMON MARACHE, Secretary.
January, 13d, 1797. dtFeb.i.
Women's Cloaks.
GEORGE DOBSON,
No. 25, South Third-ftrest,
Has just received, per Eagle, Capt. Fofdick, via Lon
don, an aiTortment of
Scarlet
Drab ( Cloalrt trimmed with lur and
Purple and f ermine.
Pearl J
December 15. §
Cheap French China.
THE fubferibsrs finding it impossible to supply their
store with any more China from France, the prices
being too immoderate in the manufa/Uwies, give no
tice that tUey will fell at prime colt the remaining
Hack on hand, comiiftiog of
DelTert Setts,
Tea-Table Setts
Separate Cups and Saucers
Groupes and Figures
Alabaster Vales v
Looking Glasses, in gilt frames,
Besides India Japan'd Toilet Defies, Chairs, Tables
nad QBadrilk Boxe,. PASQUIEK ic Co.
Ne. 91, South fjecond'ftreet.
December <th
NOTICE.
r "T" I HE Sales of LANDS of the United States, iji the
JL North-Western Territory, heretofore advertised
in the fcveral public pipers, will commence this even
ing, at the City Tavern to be continued from/ day
to day, 'till the tenth of February next, if not sooner
fold.
January 4
Public Notice,
IS HEREBY GJVEN, that 1 have applied to the
judges of the Supreme Court of this slate, to supply the
defeA in my Title to a lot of ground, situate on the Weft,
fide of Fourth-flreet, containing in breadth 10 feet, and
in length 56 feet, bounded Northward and Westward, by
ground of the fubferiber, Southward by ground of Edward
Shippen, and Eastward by Fourth-flreet, occasioned by
the loss of a deed from Timothy Harrington, John Lewis
and James Walton, by their attorney Robert Mollyneux
—All perfom* concerned, are required to appear before
two of the justices of the said court, at the house of
Thomas M'Keao, esq. the Chief Jaftice of the slate, on
the 30th inft. at 10 o'clock in the foreroon, to make their
answer to the bill of the fubferiber, filed in the office of
Edward Burd, cfq. Prothonotary of the said court.
WILLIAM SHIPPEN, jun
Philadelphia, January 6th, 1797. dt3oth
Washington Lottery.
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be purchased or
exchanged for prizes, at the Office, No. 147, Chefnut
ftreet, where a corre& Numerical Book is kept for public
infpe&ion. Also Canal Lottery Tickets for sale or ex
changed for prizes diawa in the Washington Lottery, of
which the 54th and 55th days returns are received.
The Bufincfs of a Broker carried on as usual,
January ia.
SALT PETRE.
A large quantity of Double-Refined Salt Petre for
sale at No. 25, South Third-street.
November [.
Loft or Mislaid,
At the Bank of the United States, Joseph Higbee's
Note, dated 19th December Ufl, tor twelve hundred
dollars, payable at 60 days to Nathaniel Lewis & Son.
Whoever may find the fame wilt please return it to said
Bank, or to the fubferibers, who will allow a reward.
Bayment being barred, it cannot be of use to any
other psrfon. NATHANIEL LEWIS & SON.
January 5. J. 21, 3t
For Sale,
Two Convenient BRICK HOUSES,
Three stories high, 16 feet front, and 40 feet deep
each, and adjoining ; situated on the east fide of Front,
between Race and Vine-ftreett j No«. 161 and 163.
They will be fold ob very reafonjble terms, either
separately or together. Apply to
JOHN MILLER, jun. & CO.
daw
January 13
A C A R D.
If Monsieur G. H> Sohim,
Who left Bordeaux the aoth June last, and arrived
at Bolton :.bout the middle of Aaguft, in the schooner
Jane, is in Philadelphia, he is requeflcd to call on
Joseph Anthony & Co. No. 5, Chefnut-ftreet, who
will give him some i«focnuujoD of importance.
December 34, 1796- §
Wm. Holdernesse, No. 76,
HIGH-STREET,
Has received by the late arrivals,
A IVell Selected Assortment of
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
Haberdashery Goods,
Which he will fell, wholesale and retail, on the very
lowest terms ;
Amongjl ivhicb are
Some elegant 4-4 and 7-8 Chintzes and Cottons, new
patterns
Ditto Furniture ditto
Ditto Dim-ity
Tamboured, Book, and Jaconet Mwflins
Ditto in Gold and Silver
Dittp Neckcloths, very fine
Mantuaa of the firft quality %
Silk and Cotton Hosiery
Umbrella* of the firft quality, aflorted
Irish Linen#, very fine, and Table Linens
Marfei'Hes and Cotton Counterpanes
Rose Blankets aflbrted—&c. &c.
o<stob«r 26. d
By the Subfcribers—ln PENN-STREET,
65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
Nor. 30
FOR SALE,
7 HE SHIP MART,
SAMUEL PARKER, Master,
• j -~55455£&62Tw0 hundred tons burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, k Co.
If the MARY is not fold in a few days, she will tak
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
Oilober 31. d
For .bligo and Killibegs,
The American Ship Nj.wcr,
Cnthbert Riggs, matter.
fail with all convenient speed. For
freight or pailage apply to
William Bell;
Who has for sale,
4 Trunks printed Cottons, well aflorted
3 Bales Irnh FlanneL, and % boxes Linens
»j Pipes Brandy
Madeira Wine ; ludigo. RufEa Mutts,
A few barrel* Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
OATMEAL, &c
November i», 1796,
For Sale, or Charter,
Js|rl The Ship DIANA,
Samuel Pii.:-, Matter, 1
Burthen io.s 47-95 :«n register, built ill
Philadelphia in the year 1792, of live oak
and red cedar, and was (heathed 13 months ago, ftie
has jufthad a eompleat out-fit, aiyl be sent to sea
at a very trifling expence.
For terms apply to
Philip Nick/in £5° Co.
IFbo have for fait on beard said vrjfil,
*7 calk» of fine yellow paiwt.
9 boxes and 12 bundles of writing flares
1 box ink stands and note prefleti
14 bales of fail ranvafj.'
Imperial
Hyson, and, > TEAS.
Souch®r.g j
40,000 pieces Nankcerw of the firft quality.
19 tubs Quicksilver.
t chests Bandanna handkerchiefs.
A few cheits Manchester good»well aflorted in Cor
duroys, thicksets, Ginghams, Muflinets, Dimities, &c.
3 boxes black sewing silk,
IKO crates Queens ware well aflorted.
10 t»ns sheet lead.
NaiU afi'tied, flit ind fiaarp points.
Londo* Particular, ,
London Market, [ Madeira Wine in p,p M
New-York Market, ) and ho g fcjads -
40 pipes and lofaoglheads Tenerififcwine.
8 tierces Snake Roat.
130 legs Mahogany.
Nov 7.
For carrying the Mails of the United
States,
On the following Pojl Roads, will be reciived until
thefirjl day of March next inchi/ive
I. From Charleftun, S. C. by Jackfonboro* and Coofa
hatchy, to Savannah, twice a week. Receive the Mail
at every Tueiday aad Friday Ivy 6, P. M. and
deliver it at Savannah the next Friday and Monday, by 8
A. M. Returning, receive the Mail ait Savannah evei
Saturday, by 6, P.M. and by 6, A. M. and
deliver it at Charleston the next Tuesday and Friday
by noon.
ttstf
Proposals for this route ivill be received by the foji-majier at
Savannah.
2. FromCoofahatchy to Beaufort once a week—
Receive the mail at Coofahatchy every Thursday Vy 6,
p. m. and deliver it at Beaufort by noon on Friday. Re
turning, leave Beaufort eyery Friday by 3, t. m. and arrive
at Coofahatchy on Saturday by 8, a. m.
Proposals for carrying, the mail on this route will be re
ceived by the post-master at Beaufort.
Note I. The Post-master General may alter the times
for the arrival and departure of the mails at any time du
ring the continuance of the contra&s, he previously iUpji
lating an adequate compensation for any extra expence
that may be occafiened tjiereby.
Note a. For every hours delay (unavoidable accidents
excepted) in arriving after the times prescribed by oon
tradt, the contra&pr lhall forfeit one dollar, and if the
delay continue until the departure of any depending mad
an additional forfeiture of five dollars (hall be incurred.
Note 3. Should any person making proposals desire an
alteration of the times of arrival and departure above fpe
cjfied, he must slate the alteration desired aad the price
he will carry the mail for with and without such alte
ration.
Note 4. The «antra&s are t« be in operation on the
firft day of April next and to continue until the joth of
September in the yearjSoo.
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Pafi Maftfir Gthfiral. .
(Seneral Post Office, >
Philadelphia, Jan. 13, >70. J
W. I*.
Sale,
For
Imported by the Eagle.
WILLI NGS & FRANCIS.
w&f
Also,
And on hand,
PROPOSALS,
The Managers refpe&fully inform the public, that
on account of the extensive preparations for the His»
torical Play of COLUMRUS, or A WORLD DIS
COVERED, there wil he no performance the New
Theatre until Monday the 30th inft, when a^ ove
piece will be produced, with new Scenery, Machine*
ry, Drefles and Decorations.
Janwary 24
Frejh Garden, 'Grass and Flower-Seeds,
Roots, &c.' is'c.
This day landing from the ship Eagle, captain Fofdici,
from London,
And FOR SALE by
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE,
Corner of Walnut and Second-streets,
A most capital and sxlenftvt yjjbrtment of
GARDEN, GRASS and FEOWER-SEEDS,
ROOTS, Spc. ?ce.
Among which are,
AfparagushThrec
Jfrerecole| Twelve
BeaHsj Thirte**
Beets Fifteen
Brocolii Fifteen
Cabbage 1 Six
Carrot Four
Cauliflower,' Twentyvthree
Celery i Twenty-one
CueumberJ •
Common and lemon Thyme
Curled leaf and sprigged Parsley
Pot Marygold Pot Marjerum
Balm Thyme Mangel Wurtgel /
Leek Kail Shallots
Rape Seed Rye Grass Saint Foin Lucer*#
Red and white Clover Timothy, &c. £cc.
With a curious collection of the most esteemed
FLOWER-SEEDS and ROOTS,
Seing the most e*tenfive ever imported into thit city.
The above are from a capital Seedsman in Louden, and
are warranted frefti and good.
Printed catalogues may be had by applying as above.
Dec. 17 5
kinds
Fivs
Four
Twenty-five
Six
Ekvea
Twenty-fix
Six
Three
Five
Ten
At Whitefides' Tea Ware-House,
No. 99, Nartb Second Street.
C Hyson Skin.
> Frelh Teas. < Souchong,
J (_ Bohe»
Imperial
Hyson,
Young Hyson,
Dcc. 9.
In order to comply <with \coutraftt, I wilt fill, f er
approved bonds, on 3 equal annual payments,
A {•> r T r\ Till
A Square of LOTS,
At the upper end of Frederick (burg, beginning op
polite to the lower corner of Do£lor Wellfcrd's, on
Caroline-street, and running up to the croft llrert
leading to Fitzhugh's ferry, and from thence back to
Sophia-street. Thi» square I have laid off into 24 lets,
27 and an half feet front, and 122 back, <2 on Caro
line-street, and 12 011 Sophia-street. Nine of those
m Caroline-street I have leafed 011 an annual ground
rent of 8 and !o pounds, to the amount of 74 pounds,
and the lots a purchafet could enhance the value
of by building small houses, which will as readily
procure tenants as pots or goards will Martins in the
lp r ' n gi and yiel-o a greater profit in proportion to
their coll than large buildings. Thof? who incline
to purchase may know tfce terms by applying to
mwftf
Beli-Air, Dec. 8, 1796.
THE SUBSCRIBER
WISHES to afccrtain, whether a certain EDWARD
NEVILL, by trade a Stone-Cutter, or Brick Layer,
who quitted Ireland in 1783, or 1784, and came iat*
this Country, ('tis fuppoftd to Philadelphia) about
tour years since, be Bving or dead. A« this intelli
gence is of thebigheft importance, it will be thankful
ly received, by GEO. DAVIS,
No. 313, High-street
w & f itrt
December jl
Bank of Pennsylvania,
' January 4, 1797.
At a meeting of the Dire<ftors th>s day, a dividend of
fixtcen dollars on each si; ire was declared for the last
6 months, which will be paid to the Stockholders af
ter the 14th inft.
JONATHAN SMITH, Cafoier.
dtf.
J' n - 3-
tth&ftf
Such of th« Members ol this society as are entitled t»
Diplomas, are requetted to apply for them to
Mr. Hugh Holmes, Vice Prtjident;
Mr. David M'Carmick, Treasurer ;
Mr. Robert H. Drinker, Counsel/or {
Mr. 'Jojcph Brawn {
Mr. Edward Fotc ;
Or to MATHEW CAREY, Sec.
Philad. Jan. SI, 1797. ,taw6t
Le Breton,
SURGEON-DENT/ST,
Pupil »f the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Dentist to the
King and Royal Family of France, member of the
College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris,
Keeps a complete aflortment of every thing neceOary
Preservation of the Mouth and Teeth;
Patent Mirioral Teeth, and Human & Ivory Teeth >
Dentrifice in powder ; Opiate ; excellent Elixir for
sweetening the mouth and preserving tbs teeth—lie
also furnishes BruOiei and foft Sponges.
He live* in Chefnut-ftreet, No. 135, above
Fourth-flreet.
November »6.
The Elephant,
Now exhibited, was bought for Ten Thousand
Dollars.
He is 3 years old, 6 feet high, growing t« 18 feet.
He eats 15P weight a-day, and drinks a barrel of
water j he has drank some days forty bottles of porter,
drawing the corks with Ins truck.
He is perfectly inofienfive j travels loose, it the
rate of five miles an hour, and is the greatest curiosity
ever brought to this Con I «ent.
He is to be seen 'till the 15th of January, in
Market-street between Third and Fourth-streets, 'St
a quarter of .a dollar, that every one may fee him—
after which time the former price of half a dollar.will
be refupied.
Ha will leave Philadelphia as soon as the weather
will permit.
December 31 d
d6w.
[Volume XI.
New-Theatre.
kii»d«
FOR SALE,
HENRY FJTZHUGH,
Hibernian Society,
to be used for*he
Creflef
Onion
Radish
T arnip
Pea«
Savoy
Parsnip
Melon
3taw;m
d/jwDOCUMENTS
Which accompanied the niefifoge of the President of
the United States to bojh Houses of Congress,
January 19, 1797.
l.etter to Mr. Piucknry, Mittifter Plenipotentiary as
the United States to the French Republic.
Continued.
In his letter of the 3d of June 1796. which yau
will find among the papers refpefHng the Caffius,
Mr. Adet mentioned the affair of the Favorite at
New-York j and intimated an idea that the Execu
tive might, in lijte manner, cause the prosecution
againfl le Caffius to ceale. But the proceedings
in the cafe of the Favorite were wholly ; n the haods
■of the executive officers, who were under the Pre
fulent's immediate controul, and to whbra, on evi
dence fatisfadory to the Executive, orders were
given todifcontinue the process. In this affair of
the Favorite, we are fortunate in finding one ease
ill which Mr. Adet (contrary to his affertian in
his note of November 15th) acknowledges that
justice was done by our government. You will
obterre in Mr. Faachet's letter of the 23d of Sep
tember 179,4., a very formidable complaint in this
affair of th* Favorite ; That it was pretended that
a privateer, fitted for a cruise, had deposited aims
on board her, and that this pretext was used for
vifitinjj and pillaging her: Tha* (he was a ship t>f
war of the Republic, then serving as a (lor« ship
until flic could b~ repaired : 1 hat the sovereignty
of France was violated, and her flag insulted. Yet
by the letter ot John Eamb, efquiie, collcrsor ef
the port of New-York, of the 22 d of November
*794, you will fee that at the time the /"eizure was
made of the fufpefte'd articles on board the Favor
ite, " flie h ivir.g been totally dismantled, her crew
«• sent on other (hips of war, and her fails,
" and other materials, fold »t public auc
tion, fi>e Wris coi liciered as a hulk\ otherwise the
" event would not have taken place." The col
lator further declares that the charge of pulling
down the national flag and hoitling mother in its
place, wa-s groundless.
• Thcfe are all the cases expressly mentioned by
Mr. Adet, in which French privateers and their
prizes have been brought under the coghizanre of
our courts of just ice ; and all, therefore, to win h
an aufwer can be ditefted: Had he qited the other
cases, which he fays would fill a volume, we have
no doubt that there would be found in thtm, as in
those which have been mentioned, abundant reason
to juftify the government and the tribunals.
Mr. Adet s complaints are not confined to im
putations of iujuitice experienced, by French pri.
vateers and their prizes, from our courts ; ,
Ift ' He protests again ft the violation of the
171b article ofthetteaty, in contempt of which
" the America,, tribunals have taken cognizance
« of the validity of prize, made by French ships
" of war or privateers, under pretext of original
" * t r mament or augmentation of armament in the
" United States; or of capture within their line
" ° f i"rifdi£Ho n .*>- But his predeceflor, Mr.
Fauchet, after faying tf,at oar admiralty courts
interfered :« prize causes on the ground of « seizure
|| tvifhm thejurifdifiional line ofthe United States,
or of armament or augroentdtirn of armament as
" thecapturing veffdsi" their pert,.," immediately
adds «■ On this fubjeft, fir, yon request me to fpe
" Clf y t0 y» u » c ice ii mft an e, in which a prize was
" arretted, which did not come under that denomi
" "«*»<". an d yhti take the tiouble toeftablifh that
" they have a right to interfere in every cafe that
|| can be brought under thcfe heads. In the firft
|| place fir, I never have, atleaft to m J recoil,Sion,
tontejlea the nght ofy:, U r courts, or ofthe govern
' went, to interfere in matters of the nature of those
y<"> mention but 1 complain of the facility with
" which prizes have been thrown into those two
" clafles, which do not belong to them." He
then fays that he cauld cite a great numbar
of anj»rs te which he alludes-: but contents
himielt with mentioning only two. The firft
is the cafe of lalbot, of which I have already
given some details, and which, with the docu.
ffieHts referred to, will (hew this to have' been
an unfortunate instance to Support his com
ynint. The other is that of the prizes of the Citi- |
*e» of Marseilles, alio already mentioned, and
which will not juftify a comprint ; for although the
final dectfien was in favor of the privateer, yet the
sentence of the diftrift court was not reversed in the
•ireuit court but upon the introduction of new tef
imeny : and thefupreme court allowed nj damages,
because the teftiiaony was so ambiguous as to juftify
the appeal.
But quitting tie contradiflory declarations of
the Frcocli mimfters £ and referring you tc tlip let
ter dated Augufl fl6, J793, from the Secretary
of State to oui Minister at Paris (which hat been
pufclifhed) for the reafoaing of our government, on
"this fubjeift, and the demonftrati'on of their right
and duty as a neutral power, to prohibit any ef the
belligerent powers arming their vefiejs in our ports,
eorfequeutly to re ft ore to their proper owners pri
w taken and brought in by ' veffils so unlawfully
»rmed,~ or when taken within our line of jurifdicti
c», I will only add here—That the principles of
the rolrs on this fubjeft firft adopted by the Presi
dent on the most mature deliberation received after
•ward* the fan£ti6n of Congress, by their aft of the
sth of June 1794, and of the Judges in all their'
judicial proceedings, in the prize causes in queflion.
If then the 17th article of die French treaty has
been violated, the Executive, the Legislature and
the Jodgea of the Federal Courts have all delibe
rately concurred in the violation. This no Ame
rican citizen will be inclined to believe, and we
wight suppose that the confederation of luck cols,,
,currence in one opinion would-any where produce]
a pause, and some diffidence in pronouncing it er
roneous. Neither the rules adopted by the Prefi.
dent nor the aft of congrcfs have made a new law
refpefling fucb prizes : tlicy have only directed the
nodtt ef proceeding try fv \l VU r neutral duties agree
ably tc tie unitierjal lav/ of nations. The judges
bav< applied this law j but not without doe atten
tion to the obligations of our treaties, which they
regardasfupierae laws oft he land.
* Letter, June 8, 1795.
St*te papers, p. 75.
-1. Mr. Adet "protests agatnd the riolatioß of
" the 17th article of the treaty, i;' contempt of
" which English vessels, -which had made prize or>
4 « Frenchmen, have been admitted into the ports o!
" the United States." The conftrn£lion >.f this
part of the 17th article for which Mr. Adet, after
'his predecessor Mr. Fauchct, contends, it this—
That if a national (hip of war of the enemies of
France has at any lime, and in any part of the globe,
made prize of a French veflel, such (hip of war is
to be allowed no (belter or refuse in our ports, utt
lefs file is driven in through Hrefs of weather ; and
then (he is to be made to depart as foen at polfi
ble. On the contrary, the conllrudtion adopted by
the F-xecutive of the United States, and exprefled
in the rules before mentioned, which had been trans
mitted to the colle&ors in August 1793, was thi ■ —
That privateers only of the enemies of France were
absolutely excluded from our ports, except as be
fore, when compcljcd to enter through llrsrfs of
weather; putfuant to the 22d article of the trca
ty ; while the national (hips of war of any other
nation were entitled to an asylum in our potts, ex
ceptirig those which (hould have made prize of the
people or property of France, coming in with their
prizes.
On the 9th of September 1793, the Secretary
of State thus expressed to the Bririlh miwifter the
determination of the Executive.* u The public [kips
" of -war of both nations [French and Enijlilh]
" enjoys perfect equality i«, our ports—ill, inca
" fesof urgent nescfikv—2d, in cases of cotnfort
" »nd convenience—<3c 3d, in the time theychoofe
'• to continue, and though the admission of prizes
" and privateers of Frauce 11 exclafive, yet it is the
" efttift of treaty/' Jcc.
In fuppojt of onr conftruftion of the treaty, it
has been oUferved, that " fthe firft part of the
" 17th article relates to French ships of war and
" privateers entering our ports with their prir.es :
" the 3d, coniralls the situation ot the enemies of
" France by forbidding such as (hall have made
prize of the French ; intimating from this con
" ne£lio« o* the two elaufes, that those forbidden,
" are <h»fe which bring their prizes with them."
To thcfe obfervatians I- will add—That if the lite
ral ivnftru&ian contended for by the French mi
r.iflers were admitted, then although the public ships
of war which had made prize of French people or
would be excludeo from oar ports, yet
the prizes of such public (hips might be received,
and they might be fold too ; far the prohibition in
the 22d aiticle of the treaty applies only ta priva
teers and their prizes ; while the government of the
United States judged that the 17th article was in
tended to exclude the prizes made en the French
by public (hips as war as well at those made bypri
vateers ; and gave directions accordingly to have
thera excluded. Further, if it had been intended
to exclude from our ports th * public /hips of war of
the enemies of France, coming "without any prize,
then they would doubtless have been comprehended
in one provision with the privateers in the 22i ar
ticle : for privateers are thereby excluded, whether
they came with 01 without prizes. But public (hips
of war are not comprehended, or at all referred to
in the 2id article ; whence the conclusion is fair,
that it was no! intended to forbid them coming
alone { and consequently that the exclusion provi
ded in the 17th article applies ta them only when
they would come into our pons -with their prizes ;
this last claufc of the fame article being in its form
opposed to the firft clause which admits the entrance
of French (hips <with their prizes. Betides, if a
public ship of war of the enemies of France comes
into our ports without any prize, how is it to be
known whether (he has or has not made prize of
the people or properly of the French ? Who is to
create a tribunal to inweftigate and pronounce on
the fa& ? Bui if (he comes with a prize the cafe
presents no difficulty ; (he brings with her the Evi
dence which goes to the exclusion of her and h»r
prize.
I mud now advert to some others of Mr. Adet's
charges against the government of the United
Slates.
I ift. "It [the government of the Ulfited State*]
j " put in question whether it Ihould execute the
j " treaties, or receive the agents of the rebel and
" proscribed princes." And is there any thing in
this uujuftifiable or extraordinary ? Was it easy for
a nation distant as ours, to obtain promptly such
accurate informal ion as would enable it duly to e
ft i mate the varying condition of Fiance? In 1791
the eonflitution formed by the conllituent afltmbly
was accepted by Louis the 16th ; it was notified
to the United States in March 1792. Congress
tltfirod the Prcfident to communicate to the king
of the French their congratulation on theOccafioq.
In 1792 the kinjf was suspended. In Sep
temhr'r royalty was aboliih-'d; and in January '93,
Loais the 16th tried and condemned by the con
vention, fuffererf death. Was it easy to keep paca
with the rapid futvtiiion of such revolutionary e
veats ? And wa« it unlawful for our government
ur.drr such cirrumftances even to deliberate ? I do
■ ret that information of the death of the king
: was received from oar miVifter at Paiis until May
ift, 1793. The news howevet had previously ar
rived in such manner as to attrad the attention of
government; for in April the President had deter
mined to receive a minister from the F+encti repab.
lie. And it is remarkable that this was before he
knew that a minister had arrived in tbe United
States. This promptitude in deciding a leading
question dees not,bear any strong marks of hesita
tion. And was there 110 merit in this Tcady de
termination to acknowledge the French republic ?''
! Had it been before acknowledged by any power
/Ten the glnbe ? How long did France Fxfttate to
the republic of the United States?
j A year and a half. And under what circuradances
j was the acknowledgment finally made ? Aftfr the:
capture of a whole British army appeared to have
. eftablilhed our independence. But of this more
j hereafter.—ln matters of importance (and what
i could de more important than the decifiun ofa neu.
| tral and allied nation on queliions perhaps involving
j war or peace ?) is it the part of wisdom to rqe#
jail deliberation even on paints whisk do net #bvi-
* Sta'e papers, p. 77.
f Secretary of State to Mr. F»ud»«t, jejpt. 7,1794,
otafly pvefent diSk ul'tes? Will not prudence d'e
tatr 10 ! im who is to decidc great national quef
tionsTather to deliberate long than rifle the coafe
quence of hasty decilions ?
2,1. " It made ail in£dious proclamation of neu-
.tiality."
I have already remaiked that this proclamation
received the pointed approbation of Corigrefs; and
I might truly add of thegre.it body of the citi
zens of the United Slates. And what was the
general objedt of this proclamation? To picferve
us in a (late of peace. And have not the miniftcrs
of France declared that goveinment did not
desire us to enter into the war ? And how was
peace to be prVferved ? By an impartial Neutrality.
And was it not then the duty of the chief magi
strate to proclaim this to -our civzerss, and to in
form them what a&9 would be deemed departures
from their neutral duties ? This was done by the
prochtraation. It declared it to be the du'y, inter
est an 1 disposition of the United States to adopt
and ptirfue a co; du<st friendly and impartial to
ward the belligerent powers: It warned the citi
zens to avoid all acts yvhich might contravene that
disposition : it declared that whafoever of the ci
tizens (hould render himfelf liable to or
forfeiture under the law of nations, by comnfftisg
or abetting hostilities igainft any of those powers,
or by carrying to any of them Articles deemed con
traband of war, would not receive the protection
of the United States against such punifcment and
forfeiture: and that the Pivfident had given,in
ftrnftiotn to the proper officers to prosecute all per
sons who Ihould violate the'aw of nations wttb re
fpecVto the powers at war or any of them. To
what in all thi« can the epithet inftdious be applied ?
On the contrary, is not the whole tranfadion
Damped with candor and good faith ?
3d. " By its chicaneries, it abandoned French
" privateers to its couris of jtiftice." Abandoned
them to its courts of jujlice ! Sir, yon know many
ef the judges personally, and nil of them by repu
tation, and that their characters need no vindication
from fuoh an infinuationi They are judges with
whole adminifttation of juftiee our citizens are fa
tisfied i and we believe they may challenge the
world to furnilh a proof that they have n«t admi
nistered juftiee with equal impartiality to foreign
ers. I will only add here one remark, that the
correspondences with the French remitters formerly
published joined to those now furmfbed you with
the other documents accompanying them, will (how
how htudly they can complain of the proceedings
in our courts, and at the fame time with how lit
tle juftiee.
4th- " It eluded the amicable mediation of the
" republic, for breaking the chains of its citizens
" at Algiers." We did not entertain any doubt
of the friendly disposition »f the French republic to
aid us in tfail bufinefj. Bui what was teally dune
we have never known. You will find herewith Mr.
Fnuchet's letter of June 4th, 1794, aad the answer
of the fecretiiy of lUte, on tbe6ih, to which Mr.
Adct refers. The infoi mation en the fubjefi, which
Mr. Fauchet expe&cd " in a little time from En
rope," probably never arrived : at least it was never
communicated to our government. There is surely
in the secretary's answer, no evidence that our go
vernment were unwilling to .accept the mediation ef
the republic. On the contrary, we have relied upon
it to aid our tiegoiiaiiuns with the Barbary powers.
Accordingly, when colonel Humphreys went from
hence in 1795, clothed with powers for negotiaring
peace with those dates, he was particularly in
iiru&ed to solicit the mediation of the French
republic ; and for that purpose only, he went from
Lifban to Paris, where, through our minider, the
committee of Public Safery mniiifcftcd their dif
position to contribute to the success of his miffiou.
But colonel Humphreys was at the fame time au
thorised to depute Jofcpfe Dor.aldfon, cfquite, (who
had been appointed confiif of the United States
for Tunis and Tripoli, and who went wi;h colonel
Humphreys from America) to negotiate iramedi
atcly a Ueaty with Algiers : for in a country where
a negotiation depended on so many contingencies,
it was of the laH imparlance to be ready to feii;
the favorable moment to e(Fc4\ a peace whenever it
(heuld offer* Such a moment prefeutcd on Mr.
Dosaldfon's arrival at Algiers. He had not been
there forty-eight hours before the treaty, was con
cluded. It is also a fa& that it was effected with
out the aid of the French consul at that place.
However, with respect to Mr. Donaldfon's nego
tiation, we are well infortned that «■ His net eon
" ferring with the consul of France was not his
" fault; and if he had done it, that it would have
" injured his cause. Neither the republic nor her
" consul enjoying any credit with the dey." But
we are at the fame time informed that the caule of
this was transitory, and ought not to hinder us from
endeavoring to engage hei* interest sos other places
and in t%at place for future occasions. Agreeably
ta this idea, the agent ps the United States ap
plied to the French consul, Herculais, at Algiers,
the last Spring, to recommend a fuitablc person to
negotiate a treaty with Tunis. The person recom
mended was employed, and we have been informed,
had in part succeeded, and was expected to com
plete a treaty ofpeace. This information was com.
municated to our minider at Paris, in a letter dated
30th of August last, from the French miniftet for
toreign affairs, accompanied by an excradt cf a let
ter from the consul Herculais.
In all these Hanfaftions, far from difcovertng a
trace of evidence ts support Mr. Adet's charge,
the revcrfe is manifefily proved.
sth. " Net wit hftaiiding treaty fy'ptilationi, it
" allowed ta be arretted vefrcls of the Hate."
While we admit the fail that French vefTtls have
been arretted, we dehy that the arreils have in
fringed any treaty ttipulationa- The details in this
letter and the documents referred to appear to US'
entirely to .exculpate the government. And if
neither the executive nor our tribunals could in aay
wife take cognizance ef captures which the French
privateers called frizes then they might take our
own veffejs in our rivers and harbors and our citi.
Zens be without redress. But: " *it is an ciTential
" attribute of the junWiftion of every country to
* Letter fr»m the Secretary of State to Mr. Morris,
Aviguft 16) »7Ji, Sute Papers, page
" priicrv tvac ■. 'o pmtifh afls in h-rach of if,
** and ta ftHufe p.upnty idketi by iorcc vvitliiij
" its limits. Were the drmcd vtffcls of any na'.
" tion to cut away one of our o*n from ihe
" wharves »f Philadelphia, and tociiufe to call it
" a piize, would this exclude us from the right of
" reditffing the wrong ? Were it the vcffel of ano
" iher nation, are we n#t equally hound to protect
" it, while within our limits? Were it fiized m
" any other waters or on the shores of the United
" States, the right of tedrc-fling is Hill the fame;
" and humble indeed would be jui condition were
" we obliged to depend for that on the will of a
" foreign cotiful, ar on negotiation with diploma
tic agents."
The fame reasoning will apply to captures made
by illegal privatceis; that is, by fiieh as wereann
ed and equipped 1b the pons of the United Stales j
for it being by the law of nations the tight of our
government, ai:d at a neutral p,>wer, iis duty tu
prevent such armaments, it mull also be its right
and duty .by all means in its piower, to teftrain the
i arts of such arincoaent» done in violation of ug
rights and in defiance of its authority. And'fuch
wetethe armaments made by French people in the
ports of the United States. And the mod effec
tual means o defeating their unlawful pradticet
was the feiznig of their prizes whe.: trought with
in our jmifdi&mn. it is very puffible, iuiieed,
that in feme cales the initaced subjects or public
agents of n.-.:ions whose jSrcperty was taken bv
French p ivateeis might commence vexatious pru
fseuticjns: but this it tip more than happens fre
quently our own citizens, and in every na
tion in the w^rld; and the only rcftraints on the
vindictive of men, in fu h cases, which
the policy of free governments has, imposed, are
the damages which the courts compel the mtlieiou*
prosecutor to pay to the injured par.y. If, as Mr.
Adet affeits, damages have in Uv® cases only been
granted by the cjurts to French privatierS, even
when the deciiions have been in their favor, it has
arisen from their own c#nduft ; or the om'ffion of
their counsel; or from accidental circumllances,'
which, ir. the opinian of the courts, furnifhed rea.
fonable preemptions agnintt them of having vio
lated, the laws, either by illegally arming in our
ports or making the captures within our juiifdic
tien. If, on the other hand, tfa. y have, in tha
event of con rary decisions, been always condemn,
ed te pay damages we may ven'ure to fay, it was
because they were always in the wrsng. For no
one will 6nd fufficient ground to impeach the idif>
cernmeat or integrity of our courts
6th. " It fuffered England, by insulting its
" neutrality to interrupt its commerce with
Francc."
That our commerce has been interrupted by the
armed vessels of England, and sometimes with cir
cuailtancesof insult, wt certainly ihall r,ot attempt
to deny: the universal rsfentracHt and indignation
excited by those injuries, were admiffians of the
{*& : but that the government has coinived at the
practice (for that Mr. Adet mull have intended to
infitituleby the ward " faffcied") all its ads mot
forcibly contradict. It was because of those ag"-
greffions that preparations far war were commenced;
and to demand fatiifaftion for them was the leading
objedt of Mr. Jay's miflioa to London. Satisfaftioa
was demanded ; and the arrangements agreed on
for rendering it, are low in execution at London.
But if by " fuffered" Mr. Adet means that we
did not arm, that is, make war on England, to
obtain the indemnification, when humanity, reason
and the law of nations prefciibe the mode of pre
viaus peaceable demand—to thei'e very principle*
we may appeal for our juftification ; if it is ne.
crfiary to go further, we fay, That, as an inde
pendent nation, we mult be left to determine in
what manner we can mo ft beneficially obviate an
evil, and when it is most preper !or us to repel an
injury. To deny us this right of judgment, is 1®
deny our independence. We have .not been mfeßfi
ble either to our honor or our iotcreft. If we
have manifefted much leng-fuffenng, we have not
been fmgwlar. Neutral nations very commonly en
dure many temporary evils ; because these appeal
light when compared with the calamities of war}
and ihey lock forward, as we have done, to a period
when returning juflice may redress their wrongs.
Tins period, we trust, will arrive in regard to thof«
we are now fuffcring from the French republic. If
a nation not bound to us by treaty, and betwee*
whom and ourselves adtual circumttances am! many
recollcftions tended to excite peculiar paffiofii, en.
gaged to tender us justice, shall wis expedt less of
an avowed friend ?
We may hci* properly enquire, what could have
been the of the parties on this point
when the treaty of 1778 was nude betweea France
arid the United States ? She knew that notwith
ttanding the extent of our count! y and its rapid
increase in population, many years must tlapfe be.
foie we could form a powerful navy to proltrdi our
commerce. She knew the conduit of maritimd
powers in all their wars : particularly she was ac*
qsainted with the maxims and measures of Eng»
land, towards the commerce of r.eutral nations, in
all her wars with France. And if knowing ilitfe
things, France then expefled that in all subsequent
wars we fhouid compel the maritime powers in ge
neral and Great Britain in particular to admit cur
commerce to peifeft freedom, then inltead of
a treaty of commcrct containing regulations f </■ r,
conducting it, when France fliould be at war, flic
would have demanded from ue a flipulation, that
in ereiy future war ia which we ftiould be engaged
nith any oth«r maritime power; we also fliould etr.
gage in if as her associate. But this is a condition
which France w*as too just to demand, and to
which the United State* would never have agreed,
[Tip be Continued
Philadelphia and Lancaftei*
Company,
5 . January & 1797.
. * of the President and, Managers, a di»
vidend of five dollars per (hare, was <lecl»rfd for the
law half year, which will be paid tQ the -Stepkholder6>
or their representatives any t>me after the »tft «f th»
mouth.
TENCH FRAftCJS, Treasurer,
Jan. 6.
* ■»Philadelphia,
WEDNESDAY EVENING, J \NUARY 15, 1797.
Extra<ft from-the Fren.h Gazette of^ew-York,
23d January.
The brig Liberty, arrived in 19 \ys from Port-de-
Paix & jean Kabel, has brought the important news
that the Cowimifiieners of the French Government
at St. Domingo have published a proclamation out
lawing General Rigaud ; depriving Lcfranc, and fomc
other* in office in the Southern part of the island, of
their places, and enjoining the whites in that quarter
to go to St. Domingo or to the United States.
COMMUNICA TIONS.
It cannot be doubled but that if all could be
known a»J published refpe&ing the influence »f Mr.
Genet over a certain morning paper not an hun
dred miles from Franklin Court that it would be
extremely irritating \\ ten the " CoifcJJions,"
fir ft 'came out from Fauchet many were much irri
tated, and when the InfutreSinn wag opposed, thou
famlt ljvere irritated. When a plot is blown up this
i« the cafe invariably. Guy Faux and his friends
were extremely irritated when Guy was detefled ;
the Guys always were irritable—dete& them ex
pose them—blow them up, and iney have all the
sensibility of offended honor.—Mr. Bache is irrita
ted because Hercules is fearing the lall neck of the
Hydra.
Mr. Femno,
The Aurora of yesterday morning fat was to
have been expe&ed) ccnfures loudly the govern
ment for communicating to the people, the letter
written by command of the President <• Mr. Pinck
ney, in answer to the charges brought again ft it
by Mr. Adet. This letter to Mr, Pinckney, Mr.
Bache tells us ought to have remained a secret for
the piefent.
It is not thus that the Aurora spoke
Adet published his Philippic against our govern
ment, in which he aceufed, in the mod arrogant &
cffcnfive stile, with duplicity, ingratitude, and hor
rible perjidy to Fra»ce. Then it right to pub
lift) this iofolent piece in a papet the most abandon
ed to French machinations in the United States, e-
Ten before it could be read by the Prefid?nt. Nou
it it turong that the people should be made acquaint
ed *ith the c«ndu& of the Executive, and the sal
fity of the charges so arrogantly brought again!
it ! Is it a maxim with the French party rha
TRUTH only (hsuld be concealed from th
people?
Who caused the letter to Mr. Mr. Pinckney to
be puhlitoed ? Congreft, (not t.c Prefident—jand
it is (aid by an unanimous vote.
On thii 1 ebferve—l ft. That it was the duty of
the President to enabl* Mr. Pinekney to answer
all the charges brought againtl out government by
the French, and tolhow to hint, that by its uni
form, friendly and neutral coadopt it had not expo
fed itfelf ro any of the opprobrium* so liberally
Aft upon it by Frcnch minifttri ; and was intitled
and had a tight toexpeft and demand the benefits
•f its commercial treaty with France.
jd. Thar it was further the duty of the Execu
tive to communicate to Congrefsfot their informs
tion, at so important a crisis, this full and clear ex
polition of the conduit it hsd uniformly held tow
ards France, and what it had a right to expect from
France.
3d. That if Congress ha»e thought it proper
to communicate to the people that which the pie
iident deemed it his duty to communicate to them,
it it to be presumed hat Congress iliouuht that the
information and th« femiments contained in the Se
.eretaty of State's excellent letter were of a nature
which they could not withhold from the public
without a breach of duty to the nation—and with
t«at abandoning them ta the influence of nnilchiev.
-ous errors re-fpe&ing the charges brought agaiaft
the whole government—of dangerous dclufions on
thl point of gratitude, and of infinitely subtle but
.daring intrigues.
One of the people of the Unit*.
The follopiag Memorial and Plan is circula
ting ; and is published for information, that those who
-wish to .encourage an undertaking so necessary and lau
dable may be acquainted with the fubje<S before the
Memorial is presented for signature.
To the Honourable the Senate and House of Repre
sentatives of tha Commonwealth of Pennsylvania
in General Aficmbly met.
The MEMORIAL of the Subscribers,
Refp<«3fully Sheweth, •
That they are desirous, from motives both of pub
lic and private mterell, to promote the eftablilhment of
a Company for creating a permanent Eridge over the
river Schuylkill, at or near the City of Philadelphia.
• They therefore pray the Legislature, that they will
ike pkafed to permit them to bring jn a Bill, for mcor-
pcrfons as will alTociatefor that purpose,
.lßiq a . Body corporate, on the plan hereunto annexed.
(And your Memorialifh will ever pary, 6c.
Philadelphia, January 15th, 1797.
PLAN for the eftablilhment of a Company, to be in
corporated by the l.egiflature of Pennsylvania (if
such incorporation (hall to that Legislature litem
proper) by the name and title of " The Company
for erefling a Bridge over the river Schuylkill, at
' ■ or near the City of Philadelphia."
t. Five commiflioners to be appointed bytfc# Legis
lature to open a Subscription for 15 000 (hares of 10
dollars each. Ten per cent of the sum fubferibed t« be
jjaid at the time of lubferibing, and ten per cent in
three months. The remainder to be paid at such times,
and in such proportion# as the Directors of the Compa
ny flail think pioper. Any person failing to mike
future payments, to forfait, for the use of the Corpo
ration, all payments previously made ; and it lhall be
lawful for any body politic, co-partnerfliip, or person,
Jto fub&ribe for as many Ihares as they, he or ftie fliall
think fit, not exceeding in any one day, But
thousand shares fliall be reserved for the ptirpofes here
in <after mentioned { and to enable the Corporation
■therewith to purchase, if the fame can be accomplilh
ed by this means, a fcite or pias« deemed eligible for
•*he ere&ion of of a bridge :
s. The Fund to be applied by the company, under
the fuperintendance of such person or persons as they
fliall think proper, to the ereftien and maintenance of
a permanent Bridge within years syet the rircr-
Schuylkill, at or near the City of Philadelphia, at a
0 -ice i- nvenunt for the ornniunica: ion of the city
'■•'ith lhe weftern,parts o' the country. A general des
cription of the Bridge to be m.-'.itioned in the Ait
.iut the company, or thof? inverted by them with the
d region of their affairs, ,n ly leviate from such <3ef
< ■ iplion, in any details thbv thein mors conven
ient Oi proper; prefervinj the fubfbntial parts of the
p ! a» defended.
3. Ihe Company to be allowed a toll not exceeding
the rates taken at the prefe: t Corporation Bridge, for
any paflTcßger6, carriages ot commodities. But no
more than three fourths of furl rates lhall be taken for
the paflage of the produce of the country, merfhan
dife and manure. But. when the said tolls lhall ex
ceed per cent, nett annual profit, the one half of
the excess shall eonipofe a fund for the redemption of
the Bridge, so as to render it free, five that there (hall
always be afmill toll or other revenue for keeping it
in repair. This moiety of the excess shall be laid out
in Bridge Stock, or other prodtiilive Funds ; and the
dividends thereof fhal! be also added to this fund, and
inverted in like manner. The other half (ball become
part of the dividend for the benefit of the Company.
4. The Company to be allowed to hold. the'faid
Bridge for twenty-five years : But if, by the operation
ofthefund heretofore and hereafter proposed, there
shall be a fuffirient ium to free the Bridge at a period
less than the said twenty-five years, then it fliall be re
deemed and become free, on the Stockholders being
paid the appraised value thereof as herein after men
tioned. If the said fiftid lhall not be adequate to the
purpose lafl mentioned, the Legillature may, at the
expiration of the said twenty-five years declare it a free
Bridge {providing at the fame time the means of keep,
ing it in repair) and the Company shall be obliged to
take the sum of money therefor, as shall he allowed on
a fair appraifemcnt, by indifferent persons. The like
appraitement lhall take place, wken the finking fund is
is adequate to the redemption of the bridge, and the
eftablilhment of a revenue, if a toll ke not thought
more eligible for keeping the bridge in repair.
$• 'The CommifTioners before mentioned (hall call
a meeting of the stockholders, immediately on the fiib
fcription being filled; (except the reserved shares)
and that meeting lhall appoint five oftheir number, to
examine and report the most eligible places for build
ing the b idge ; and to feat with any bodies politie
or corporate, or individuals for the purchife of their
refpedliye rights, or any of them, to the place or pla
ces deemed eligible. And when the said place or pla
ces, and the terms on which it or they can be purciiaf
cd, are so reported, the said stockholders, or a majority
of them, (hall fix 011 the terms and place. Ot- the
said stockholders or a majority of them, miy then
agree, to leave the determination, bath 011 place and
terms, to the DirevStors, to bcchofen as harein after
mentioned
6. The be allowed to ehoofe twelve
Direflors annually, and make By Laws for the govern
ment of the affairs of the company
7. Semi annual dividends to be made.
8 If the Legtfbture (hall be pleased, at the time
of palling; this a<3, or within twelve mouths thereafter,
to rant a furri of money towards erecting the bridge,
such sum lhall he laid out in (hares ; and the lum so
g anted, together w-th the dividends thereon anfing
from time to lime, which (hall also be inrefted in bridge
stock, or other produ&ive fund, j (hall be adt'ed to the
finking fund herein before propofcd for freeing the
bridge.
NORFOLK, January 14.
The (hip Dolphin, Capt. A ilfon, arrive*} here yef
terdsy in 40 days from Boston, (poke Dec. 30, brig
Dolphin, Capt. Merry, from Bonavifta, out 55 days,
bound from Norfolk, and bore away for the We(t-
Indies Jan 9, spoke the brig Sclitilkill, from Ports'
Rico, bound for Phi adelhpia, out if who also
bore away for the Well-Indies.
BALTIMORE, January 11.
At a meeting in the usual manner us rhe OLD
FIELDERS, on Tuefti;>y eveni g, the 3d inii
the anriivirfary of the battle of Piinceton, wm by
Old Fielder Giorgf Washington, in 1777,
William JefTop in the chair, ( Henry Stevenfor. be
ing indifpofrd) the following toajfts were drank by
friendly brethren.
t. Old friewdthip—Hog, hnmmany, n»u(h, milk
andcyder—-may the head of tli Oid Fielders en
joy in retirement the above comforts, to which he
las been accnftom>«i frem childhood.
2. George Walhingtan, phnter and farmer-
May his memory be Hear to Old Fielders, and re
vered by other nations—may we never have cause
to regret his resignation
3. Old Fielder John Adams (with the addition
of salmon and Uihfteri) who formed the alliance
between the Columbian aud Batavian republics.
4. Old Fielder Thomas Jtfferfon —the framerof
the declaration of independenee—a'man railed on
bog, h"mm<:ny, mufti, milk and cyder.
5. Thomas Puukney, the framer of our Spa
rifh treaty—"-may we never want fucli a patriot and
citizen, who will bleed in the service of his coun
try.
6. Aaron Barr,—Miy America, never breed a mai
who is capable of trembling on the plains of Abraham ;
the friend and aid of the gallant Montgomery.
7. The Fair Daughters of Columbia—may they
never reward with their smiles those unwilling to en
counter every danger and difficulty in itsfervice.
. 8. The memory of Anthony Wayne.
Volunteers Genuine Republicanism—May foreign
influence never d« grade, impair, or destroy it in con
federated America.
John Eger Howard, Daniel Morgan, and William
Washington, —May they never be Cowpened.
By this- day's Mail.
BOSTON, January iy.
rhe recent thaws, aided by the exertions of sea.
faring men, &e. have completely broken up the ice
in the harbour. Much is still floating about, but
vessels can come into and depart from the harbour
with cenflderable fafety.
Important, though Me/ancit/y Ntwt, frtm Cast-
Francuij, December 11
On Saturday la It arrived in town via New-Yetk,
from C. Francois, Capt. Atwood, late of thefchr.
Jane, of this place. He went to the Cape, an a
common trading voyage, on hi* arrival there, a
guard of soldiers was immediately placed on beard
his vefl'el, and soon after lighters sent along lide,
and the whole of his cargo forcibly taken out, not
even excepting hi# own and the poor feamen'a ad
ventures—the moll ruffian fury marking the plun
dirers during the whole operation. On crquiiinn
the reasons fur such condud of the officers of the
government, he was told that they were au-horifed
by (He French Dircftory } that they were diftrefled,
larving, and .would help tfiemlfelves as they could 5
that orders were iffurd for the capture of all Ame
r> in vefT.ls, bnuiH to Bri'ifh ports ; afid, that they
(h'juld soon be at open war with America. Pet it i -
ons to the admmift ration were treated with the
m II illiberal contimp' and indifference. Twelve
wther American veflels were there which had been
treated in the fame way.
Among the veflels that had fuffered under these
unexampled atrocities, was a brig —, Hilman,
of Purtland ; brig Abigail, S. ot, of New-York ;
and brig , Reynolds, of Savannah.
"1 he people of colour, were averse to those mea
sures, and appeared much attached to the Ameri
cans; the persecution originated in the eommilfioa
ers, among whom is uumbered the notorious Sow-
THON AX.
The A meri'.an Consul had written to the Secre
tary of State an thr fubjeft, enclosing the order*
which had beta pablilht-d, and placarded.
An embargo had continued there during; the
whole of capt.'Atwoed'a stay—a temporary fsfpen
fian alone enabled him to leave the Cape, io a vef
lei employed by the admiuiftratioa.
Capt. Atweod has entered his protest against the
treatment he receivad.
NEW-YORK, January 24.
A letter from Niagara, of the 191b ult. now in
our hands, fays, " Thelalt detachment of the Fe
deral troops aftrr being drove to Kingston, the bay
of Quinty, and other placet, being out 17 days,
got into the mouth of Geneflee river, about Sfty
miles from this, when two officers and about 58
men came through thabufh, and arrived here the
10th inft. The vessel, a small sloop, being her firil
voyage, arrived here the 17th inll. with several whe
had ijien froft hitler, and others with the small-pox
which thejr had caught at the Bay of Quinty."
Arrived at this pert.
Ship Criterion, of Philadelphia,
Brig Eliza, Stephens,
Shr. Laik, Read,
Beifey, Herron,
Sloop Romeo, Decker,
Captain Decker spoke the Schooner Eagle, of
Newburyport, Benjamin Pearfe, mailer, 70 days
from Porto Rico.
The brig Nancy, of this port, John May, mas
ter, from the Mole to St. Marks, was taken by the
French, carried inttt Cape Francois and condem
ned.
The brig Free mason of this port, eapt. John
Wier, (since dead) from Jeremic for a imiket, is
taken and carried in as above and detained for trial.
Brig Biutus,of New-York, B . Aborri, matter,
taken <vs above, a i »d detained f®r trial.
Upwards erf 60 fail of American veHels are also
earned imo different parts of St. Domingo.
College-Hall.
Readings and Recitations,
Moral, Critical > and Entertaining.
Mr. FENNELL
Refjxiitfully informs the Public, that
Ob THURSDAY EVENING, Jam 16, u 7 o'clock,
Will be delivered,
(KIR»T FART)
On Modesty,
On Clicerfulncft,
On Sincerity,
(SECOND PART)
Celadon and Amelia,'
Ju»ioand i'hraia,
Lemons of Wifdoin,
(thirb fait.)
On Taste, * ' Aktnfide
Pleafurcs arising from a cultivated imaginatioß, ditt
The pain arising from virtuous erajtioiu attend
ed with jjltafures,
gf On FRIDAY, Janiary tj,
Vv iit be delivered,
(VIRIT TART)
On Honor,
On Goo ] Humour,
On the Knowledge of the World,
(second andthird parts)
THE CAVE OF NATURE;
Or a Pidlure of the Virtues, Vices, Palilalia and At
tributes of the Human Mind.
£? On SATURDAY, January aB,
The Progreft and Efftfls of Revenge and Jealousy,
traced and exemplified in the character! of Zanga
and Othello, with «ecitation« of the most Rriking
paflage# in each.
Tickots to be had of Mr. Potilfon, jua. at the Library ;
atmr M'Elwee's looking-gkfs-ftore, No. 70, S. Fourth
ftreet ; and at Mr. Carey's, Booklellcr, Market-street—
Half a dollar each.
This Day is Published,
By BIOREN & MADAN, at their Printing Office,
No. n, Dock-street, and fold by the prinsipal
Bookielieri in this "City.
The American Annual Regiftcf ■
Or hiflorica! Memoirs of the United States, for the
Year 1796.'
No. 167.
DiftriH of Ptnnfyl<vama, to wit :
Be it remembered, that on the 19th day of January
in the Twenty-firfl year of the Independence of the
Unit«d States of America, Biron & Madan of the said
•iiltricfl have deposited in this Office the title of a Book
tht Right whereof they claim as Proprietors in the
words fallowing to w:t:
" The American Annual Register, or Historical
" Memoirs of the United States,,for the year 1796.
In conformity to tbt aft of ihe Congress of the
United States entituled " An act for the encourage
ment of learning by securing the eopies of Maps,
Charts and Books, to ths authors and pi oprietor* of
such copies during the time therein mentioned."
Samuel Caldwell,
Clerk Pennsylvania Diftrift.
- ia»'4
January if.
.All Perlons having Demands
Ajainft "the Estate of the late Thomas Franklin)
decealed, are desired to bring in their account* tor
settlement; and those indebted to make immediate
payment, to ISRAEL PLEASANTS, ") „
WALTER FRANKLIN, or £ Exctu -
SAMUEL R. FRANKLIN, > tw, «
January 14th, 17)$.
AjPrinting-Ojfice for Sale.
Consisting of
One fount of Arevier;
()ne riifto Long-Primer;
One ditto ;
One d tto Double-Pisa ; •
One ditto French Canan j <
One ditto Four-line Pica ;
An aflortment of Flowers ;
Frames, Cases, Gilleys ; ,
Imposing-Stone, Chafes, 40. See.
All in good order.—Also
An EXCELLENT PRIVTING-PRESS,
Apply at No. 68, North Second-street.
Januiry *i
•CAMILLA,
Or A Pi Sure of Youth.
By tie authored of Evelina and Cecilia, to be corn
prifed in five volumes, at half a dollar each, payabits
on delivery—Printed at New-York, by Mr. JoKa
Ball. 7
CONDITIONS.
I. Handforae, seat type, perfectly new, i* era*
ployed.
11. A volume, Hitched ia blue paper, is intended
to be published every 1 weeks, till the five are com
pleted ; the firft and second are came to hand, and tlic
third is hourly expected. Subfcriptioas are received,
and Books nay be had of J. QKMRQD, No. 41,
Chefnut-ftreef
Mrs. D'Arblay (late Miss Burney) the celebrated
authoress of this inimitable work, needs no eulogy
to add to the laurels the has already acquire/ ia the
literary world. The ilrength of imagination and ele.
gance of style, displayed in Eveliua and Cecilia, will
fufficiently recommend to every reader of taile and
judgment, the perusal of Camilla.
It may not be improper to add, that the Queen of
England, after having perused this interesting publi
cation, presented Mrs. D'Arblay with a thoul..ud
pounds sterling, at a teftimeny at' her approbation of
the work.
Januory eotf
Elegant Bruflels & Turkey Carpeting,
For sale by George Oobfon, No. 15, South Third-ftrcct,
December 15. dtf
Bank of the United States,
December lUh, 1796.
WHEREAS the following described CertiGcater
of Public Debt, credited in the books of the Treasury,
and of Stock of the Bank of the United States, were,
loft with the brig Peggy, John Hyer, mafler, outer
p.tflage to London—Therefore notice ia hereby given,
that application will be made for others of the fame
delcription agreeably to the rules established at the
Treasury and Bank of the United States refpe&ively,
CERTIFICATES OF PUBLIC DEBT.
! Date&No. In whote favor iiTued. Qulii.Cis.
Mir. 4,1796.
( Walter Boyd, softeooo each def.allii.
2171 to > d iuo £ a do.
i "7 s * ,
*177 duto > 54*» 91 do.
Feb. 16.
14036 Fermin de Taftet, 1 jjoa 6perct. domf
Mar. 4.
14 76 Francois Gd« Tourncs, 1 4001 do.
M"77 d ' tto > Bjj 47 do.
35*8 9'eg« Dittmer, 1 674 44 do.afTu.-
3399 ditto 1 1169 13 do.
Feb. 16.
14034 ditto 1 349946 0 do. dom.
Mar. 4.
14078 Jofcpb Lucas j 3000 do.
3427 ditto 1 100® do.ifiu.
Feb, 16.
•4°35 P"es it Heygale, I #631 j8 do.dow.
3517 ditto 1 1367 t* do.afTu.
«6iß ditto t Juoo . t perct. d*.
Mar. 4 *
10834 St (T. C. Pourrat, vtMve ) ...
ioSjJ ( le CouUeulii ) * SP°° do.dom.
10836 ditto » $591 to da.
10 j ditto 9 f ooo each do. affii.
>642, ditto a tcoS t| da.
Feb 6.
9173 Elizabeth Rjitt, a 14*09 def. do«.
ai6o tdwaid Steers, a 3655 6j do. affii.
9 »74 ditto 1 70 .dom*.
Mar. 4
93°3 Han nth Shelly a tjfis 23 do. do.
i.B»j. Thorny , 5 0. 0
2ib; Rf*. C. K. Whatley, 1 ,#OO dct. a£e.
a 168 ditto 1 1600 do. d«.
CERTIFICATES OF BANK. STOCK,
Detejjdc No. In whole favor issue ( j i
Jin. 1.178®.
*96?® l ° j J ose P h Atkuafon, jof 1 flu*.
>946 Tholtils Andfos, 3 (hare*.
411 a ditto " a (ha es.
387'
45
5°4S
7123 William Barnard, 7 1 uaare.
>9»J9
to
1926*
Alexander Blair, » i flutes.
9 6 * & |ditw • 10 (hare*
2 95 l
aßj 4 duto 1 4 (hares*
»3565 * | R< "' ®' vid Bo J ue » • » (hare. ;
609 Martin de Havilland 1 f Dure*
1666 ditto , 4 (hares. '
19*1 j ® amue ' E'beridge, * 9
2967 ditto * * Ihares.
95 to 100 Joshua Crigby, jun, & Ojares. j
I Mrs. Sarah Harrris, * a Ihare.
14024 ) •
"* ! H s,'£s4JSr!'
s 4'3 ) di tlO • 3 flwres.
*4'* /
ditto > & (hares.
$4 Nathaniel LeCocq, a 5 (hares,
3j<c2aai Wm Peter Le Cocq, • 4 (hares. i
*439 Joseph Locas, 1 § (hates.
Thomas Mullet, • a (bare.
«3«3« | *
to | Tbomai Raikcs, 4 6 flutes.
,3293 ditto . I li (hares.
ml & j wll, » m R»ik«. -• 4
*9» f ditto ' » 7 tharea.
J9» ditto 1 3 fb^ea.
4067 Rev.Cha, Richaria, 1 * (hares.
ditto • 1 (hart,
<714 CbariaaStKTt, a 1 (hare.
*9{o ditto ' I jo (hires.
3084 ditto is Ibares.
] J'metSteers, t leach.
(30 George Wltfoa, I S (hatei.
uw&ir O. SIMPSON, Ca&iv> 1
Days
Amsterdam
Guadaloupe
St. Croix 26
Halifax 10
Charleflon 10
Spectator
ditto
Tillotjon
Grainger
Artnjiroug
ditta
Guardian
Rambler
ditto
•coawSamuel Richardet
12 ESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
v Merchants, that he has this day Opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEE HOUSE in the a
city cf Philadelphia. si
The Subscription Room vrill be furniflied v/ith all the
daily papers publHhrfd in Philadelphia, Nsw-York, Bol
ton, Baltimore, together with thole of the principal com "
mercial citi«9 of Europe—They will be regularly filed
and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
of Liquors; together with the usual refrefhments,
will as <rll times be procured at the bar.
G may (SleperA on being accommodated with
the ciiciceft of Wine% Spirituous Liquors, and the mod
approved Malt Liquor* from London and orhcr breweries. )
The Larder will befupplied the prime and eariieft
produ<sHons of the Seaion. * *
Large and small Far ties, ov Tingle Gentlemen, may be J
accommodated v/ith Breakfafts, Dinners, cr Suppers, at t
hours mod conv nient to thcmfelvep—a cold Collation ;s <
regularly kept for convemeccy, the Bill of Fare to be had
at the bar.
Th<* Lodging Rooms will bs completely furniftifd, and
the utmost attention paid to cleanlineis, and every other
requisite. 1
S4MUitL Richardet will behappy to receive, and «
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
hlmfelf that nothing on his part shall be wanting to pre
serve that patronage with which he has been so diftinguiih
in£ly honored.
Philadelphia, April 19. - mwf
Twenty Guineas Reward.
RAN AW AY from the fubferiber on the 23d Q&obar,
a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSES ; 21 years
old ; about 5 feet 8 inches high ; had oil a mixed green
coat, With a green velvet cape ind eval yellow buttons;
a striped veil; a paii of dark spotted pantaloons, and
whole boots much worn. It is probable he may change
his name and dress. He/has been accustomed to driving
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will be
paid for fccuring him so that the fubferifeer may get h :nl
again, and if brought home all reasonable charges paid by
liobins Cbamberlaine.
Eafton, Nov. 10. 14 $Jm2awtf
Horses taken in,
For the Winter Sea/on,
And fed on clover hay at the Subscribers place, u
niles on the Bristol Road, where good (tabling is pro
vided, and great care will b« taken of them
William Bell.
Nov. 23. mwf2wmth\f.
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 313, HIGH-STREET.
GEORGE DAVIS announces to his profeffior.al friends, |
and tha Gentlemen of the Law, generally, through the
Union, that his'ate importation of BOOKS is now arrang
ed, and ready for Sale, from a fmele volnme to an entire li
brary, without any advance upon his former exceeding low
prices, whi«h forfeveral years pan have in so dittinguilhed a
manner recommended them to notice.
Printed Catalogues •combining the mod exteafive collec
tion cf the latest EugUJh and Irilh Editions ever imported
into this country, aie pablilhed, and will be delivered giatis
an application. v
Orders addrffled to G. D. in writing from any distance
(hall be pun&ually attended to.
A number of TRUNKS for Sale.
ALSO, TO BE LET,
A convenient LOFT, near Market Street Wharf.
ov.a. tu&fgm
City cf Waftiington.
SCHEME of the LOTERY, No. 11,
FOR THE, IMPROVEMENT 0 t THE
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent ) 20,000 dollars, & > 000
dwelling-houfo, i caih 30,000, are 5 '
1 ditto ij.ooo & cafe 25,000 ' 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 & ca(h 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & calh 10,000 20,000
1 ditto 5,000 & caih 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & caih 5,000 10,000
1 eafh prize of 10,000
ado. 5,000 each, are • 10,000
■10 do. 1,000 " " 10,000
do. 500 • - 10,000
00 dor 109 - • 10,000
%oo do. 5° * " 10,000
400 do. *5 • " 10,000
1,000 do. 20 m ao,ooo
15,000 do. 10 • J5©,«00
16,739 Prizes.
33,261 Blanks.
' 50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity of
■Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be lib last drawn
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one :
And approved notes, securing payment in either mousy
er prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be received for
any number not tefs than 30 tickets.
This Lottery "win affoAl an elegant specimen of the pri
vate buildings to be erected in the City of Walhington—
Two beautiful designs are already (eleded for the entire
fronts on two of the public squares ; from theft prawings
it is promoted to erect two centre and four corner buildings,
as soon as poffline after this lottery is fold, and to «nvey
them, when compleee, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner described in the scheme for the Motel Lottery.
A nett dedu&ion of five per cent, will be made to defray
the necessary expenses of printing, the furplu6
will be made a part of tlje fundintended for the National
Univertity, to be eiecltd city of. Walhington.
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
old off.— t he money prizes will be payable in thirty days
fafter it is iiniflied ; and any pr zei for which fortunate
numbers ate not produced within twelve months after th«
drawing is doled, are to be considered as given towards
the fund for the Univerlity ; it being determined to fettle
the whole bulinefs in a year from the ending of the draw
ing, and to take up the bonds given as security.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the Prizes,
are held by the Prefidcnf and two Directors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
mount of the lottery. (
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of
the late CommilHoners affilted in the management of the
Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake this arduous talk
second time on behaif .of the public ; a fuiticient num
~r of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that she
iends to a National University and the other federal ob
jects may continue to favor the design.
By accounts received the diftcrent parts of the
Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets
have lieen font so» sale, the public are assured that the
drawing will speedily commence, and that the care and
caution unavoidably necessary io insure a fafe oifpolal of
the tickets, has rendered the ihort fulpenfion indi(pcnlabl«.
SAMUEL BtODGMT.
e Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; of
' Tames Weft &. Co. Baltimore ; of Peter Gilman, Boston ;
ol John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells
Cooper's terry. «•
FOR SALE,
About 1,600 acres of Land, 1
fituatcd, laying on and between Mar(h
and Beech Creeks, S*lifHin county, Pennsylvania, in
four faparatc Patents. For terms ot sale apply to
Wm. Blackburn, }
No. 64, South S<*co«d-ilr6et *
Oilobcr 31. mwftf c
WM. HAT DON, 1
Drawing-Master, from London, '
Where he has fludied several years under one of j
the raoft eminent maflers in that science, attends
young Ladies and Gentlemen at tkeir refpeflivehomes.
His terras jre 6 dollars per month for attendance three
times per week. Likewise all kinds of ornamental
Painting, Flowers, Fruit, &c. taught on the above
terms. A line dire&ed to W. H. left with the Editor
of'this Gazette, will be immediately attended 4 to.
Januaryi}. coivr •
A Manufactory FOR SALE.
A valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufa&ory, situate
in a convenient part of the city ; the works almost new,
on an entirely original coaftru&ion, and built of the best
materials, and may be set to work immediately. Persons
whowilhto purchase, are requeued to apply at Nor 273,
South Second Street. September 13. t t f tf
Canal Lottery, No. 11.
Scheme of a Lottery, authorized by an ailentitled
" An aft to enable the President and Managers of the
Schuylkill and Sufquchannah navigation, to raite, by
way of Lottery, the fiiin of Four Hundred Thousand
Dollars, for the purpose of completing the works, in
their acts of incorporation mentioned."
Dollars
I Prize of twenty thousand dollars, *0,000
I of ten thousand dollars, to,ooo
5 of four thouf.nd dollars each, to
be paid to the poifeffors of the five
numbers firft out of the wheel on the lj.lt
day's drawing, at which time there (ball
not be less than 500 numbers undrawn, 29,000
io of two thousand dollars each, 20,c00
20 of one thousand dollars each, 20,000
43 of live hundred dollars each, 11,$00
100 of two hundred dollars each, 20,000
100 of one hundred dollars each, 10,000
210 of fifty dollars each, n,oo»
29,500 of five dollars each, 147,500
30,0*0 Tickets at ten dollars each. 300,000
Six dollars for each ticket will only be demanded at
the time of sale
All prizes (hall be paid ten days after the drawing ic
finithed, upon the demand of the possessor of a fortunate
ticket, fubjeel to a deduction of fifteen per cent,
j Such prizes as are not demanded within ji months
after the jjrawing is finifhed, of which public notice
will be given, (hall be conlidcrcd as rtlinquilhed (or
the use of the Canal and applied accordingly.
At a meeting of the Prelident and Managers of the
Schuylkill and Sufquehanna Canal Navigation—and
the President aad Managers of the Delaware and
Schuylkill Canal,
Resolved, That Joseph Ball, John Steinmctz, Stan
dilh Forde, Francis Weft, James M'Crea, John Mil
ler, junr. and William Montgomery be a committee
to arrange and direfl the mode of dil'pofing of the
tickets; which committee (hall deposit th* money in
Bank, to be carried to the credit of an account to be o
pened for the Lottery.
At a meeting of the Canal Board, held January 16,'97,
Refoived, That the committee for coudu&ing' the
Lottery be direded to commence the (drawing on the
firfl day of ivlarch next.
£xtra& from the minutes,
Wm. M. Smith, Secretary.
Joseph Ball,
John Sleinrnelz,
Sftandijit Forde,
\ Francis IVeJI, ]> Masagcrt.
James M'Crea,
Johu Miller, jun.
iVilliam Montgomery, _
Jan. 2®. thSc f.tf
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
A new method of keeping Bill Books,
Adapted for tbe ease and convenience fff merchants
in general ; but particularly for those who are ex
tensively concerned in trade; exhibiting at one j
view, all the bills which a merchant may have to
receive or pay, in the course of the whole year, !
for each month feparativeljr. And thereby pre- j
venting the tronble and inconvenience attendant on .
the mode now in use, of fele&ing the bills due in j
each month from the promiscuous entries of fevcral
. months. To which is prefixed,
able (hewing the number of days from any day
any month, to the fame day in any other month.
Philadelphia, printed for and fold by R. CAMP
BELL & Co.
January 2 tawtf
W aftiington Canal Lottery,
NO. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorised
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
[ two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Walhington, froxi th Po
tomac to the Eastern Branch Haruour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Vii"l Prize of 10,000 dollars, ao,ooo
I ditto 10,000 10,000
; r2S} »»>
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
. 10 ditto 400 4,000
20 ditto' 100 2,000
SS ditto JO 2,750
. , 5 7jo ditto 12 69,008
To be raised for the Canal, 26,259
5850 Prizes, 175,000
n6jo Blanks, not two to a prize.
f I7JOO Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
. The Commissioners have taken the Securities re
. quired by the aforefaid a& for the punctual payment ot
the prizes.
e The drawing ef this Lottery will commence, without
_ delay, as loon as thf Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
e Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after the
5 drawing is finiflied, (hall be considered as relinquiihod for
<• the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
i ( Signed) NOTLEY YOUNG,
f DANIEL CARROLL, of D
~ LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
,f Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
; THOMAS LAW,
> JAMES BARRY.
Cst of Wafliicgton, Feb. 11. • • $
Foa Sale !
By ptin.itc contrail,uvcry vahablc EJlatc, known by
the name ff
CHATH A M, -
MOST delightfully §tnated on the north bank of Rap- f
pahanock river, opposite the town of Frederickfburg, in 1
fht; Hate of Virginia, confiding of eleven or fifteen hun- ]
dred acres, as may bell iuit the purchaser. There is on <■
this eflate, a large and well built brick house, contain ng a
nine commodious rooms, cxcluiivc of a spacious hall or en- I
try, 21 feet square.two pair of (lairs, suitable artdconven- 1
ient pillages, and excellent dry cellars. It is placcd on a 1
fine hsFlthy eminence, commanding beautiful views in a
every direilion over the to.vnsof Fredcrickfburgh and 1
Falmouth, and an extensive country.—The 1
ground# adjoining the house are neatly laid out in pleal- ]
urc end kitchen,gardens interspersed with a variety of 1
f»»rcetrees, achoice collection of flowers and flowering t
fhruks, a»d enriched by various forts of the following J
fruits, viz apples, pears, walnuts, cbefnuts, eherries,peach
es, plumbs, ne&arinos, apricots, grapes, figs, rafberries, i
gooseberries, strawberries, and currants; the whole admi- i
rably varied by turfed slopes which have been formed by ]
great labour and expence. Bordering up»n these im- I
provements, are feverid lots, in a high date of cultivation,
and well set with red clover and orchard grass, from 1
■which three heavy crops <Jf h.iy are taken every year. Ad
jacent thereto are two large and flouriltiing orchards; one
of well chosen peach trees, the other of apple and pear. |
trees, felerfled from the bell nurseries in the state. Pro
perly detached frora the mansion house are extensive
roomy offices of every denomination, Viz a Kitchen and
Larder, houfe-keepec's room and Laundry, with a cellar
underneath for a variety of purposes, a ftore-l oul'e and
smoke house all of brick, a dairy and lpring house of ltone.
Stables for thirty horses, and coach houses for four 1 car- i
riages. Alfe a large and well planned farm yard, v ith 1
barn and granary, a cow house, with separate stalls, for i
thirty-fix grown cattle; apartments for fattening veals,
muttons and lambs ; extensive Iheds for sheep, and other i
arrangements for stock of every description, with a large ]
and convenient receptable for provender, from which they i
can be furnilhed without being exposed to the inclemency
of the weather. An overseer's house, blacksmith's (hop, i
and quarters fufficient to accommodate in the haft man
ner more than fifty labourers.
The arable lands are f® advantageously divided as to as- I
ford an opportunity of making a large quantity of Indian
corn annually, without bringing the field into similar cul- •
ture oitner than once in four consequently the <
lauds may be improved by keeping up the inclofures during
the intermediate years, or may be bensficially fallowed for
wheat and other grain at the option of the prop: ietor.
Oii the premises there is also a merchant mill with one
pair of best French burr stones, and one pair of Cologne;
furnilhed with modern machinery, and now leafed for the
unexpired term oi four years, at 1501 per annum, and all
grain far the use of the farm, hopper free., which is near
ly iool. more. The mill and miller's hoafe are built of
free stone, within a very small distance of navigation,near
to which are two or mare valuable lifheries, and a well
accustomed ferry over the Rappahannock to the town of
Frederickfburg. I'he lend eontains inexhaustible quarries
of free ftane near to the river, is plentifully supplied with
remarkable fin.: water and poffeffos a due proportion of
meadow, which by having the command of water may
be eonfiderably increased. The roads are good, and the
neighbourhood genteel and sociable. In fail, exclusive of
an improveable and wellcondifoncd farm, the value and
emolument inseparably ccnnetfled witn a mill, ferries,
fith cries and quarries eligibly fltuated ; the profits ariung
from an ice-house inferior to none in the state, and a gar
den of four acres so abundantly stocked with vegetables
of Jail forts as to :be fully equal to the demand in market,
th-re might be detailed many other advantages, apper;
taining to the fertility of these lands, which the fubferiber
conceives it unhecefTary to mention, being fully convinced
that when examined, it will be found to be a complete,
plea/ant and healthy refidonce, poffettng beauties and
conveniences fuflicieat to attrafl the attention of any pcr
fon desirous of becoming a purchaser.
The motive which induces the fubferiber to offer for
sale an estate so Angularly beautiful and advantageous, is
a desire to become au inhabitant of Alexandria, where he
can with more eafs attend to his interests in the neigh
bourhood of that city
The purchaser may be accommodated with a few slaves
in families, either for plantation or domcftic use. A part
of the purchafc money will be required and the balance
made caly, the debt being properly secured.
WILLIAM FITZHUGH.
Chatham, (Virg.) Dec. 19, 1796. nth— lawim.
TO BE SOLD,
A PLANTATION, in the town of Woodbury, coun
ty of Gloucester, and (lateof New-Jersey, contain
ing about one hundred and fifty acres; a suitable propor-
I tion of which is woodland and improved 'rtieadow. A
I great part of the arable land is in a high state of cultiva
tion, and very natural to the production of Red Clover.
' On said plantation there is a genteel two-ilory brick house,
with four rooms on a floor, and a good dry cellar under
I the whole ; together with a barn, corn-cribs aid carriage
! house. I'he garden is large, and contains a good collec
! tion of the bell kinds of grafted and inoculated fruit trees ;
| the orchard consists of about three hundred grafted apple
trees. Any person inclined to purchase said premil'es, may
b5 informed of the terms by applying to
ANDREW HUNTER,
July 29 F
SWAN N'S
Riding School, Horse Academy Infirmary,
Adjoining the Public Square, Market Street.
T. SWANN
RETURNS his sincere thanks tothofe gentlemen by whom
he has been empldved, during his refidencc in this City, and
flattershimfelf that the fuccels ot his efforts, in the numerous,
abflinate and dangerous diseases in Horses, in which he has
been consulted, together with his moderate charges, will le
ure their futurefavors and recommendation.
He now begs leave to inform them and the public at large
that his spacious and commodious premifps, erefled for the
parpofes above described are open for the reception of pupils
of either sex, who with to beiuftrtttted in the Art of Riding*
and the light method ol governing their horses, so as to ride
them with ease, elegance, and faiety—their horses will be
,carefully and cxpeditioufly broke, for every purpose, and
made obedient tot he will of the riders ; the natural powers
which are Ihut up in them, will be unfolded by art, calling
forth uniformity of motion, and giving to that noble animal
all those beauties of attion which providence has so bounti
fully bellowed on them.
Also, at his hospital, every difortler to which the horse is
liable will be treated according to the ruUs of art, confirmed
by long and repealed experience.
The utility of the above inllkution has never been qneftion
ed, that it has long been wanted in this city, every gentleman's
f ltud will manifell, and T. SwANN.as the fir II ellablifher of
theveterenary art, solicits a«d relies upon the fuppoit of that
t public (which he u ever anxious in fcrving) to enable him to
; bring it to perfetfton. The idea of a fuhlcr.iption for tfoat
purpose lias beeu hinted by £ev«ral gentleman, who wilh to
t promote tbe inftitutton —the amount of each fubfeription to
r be returned by fcrvices in any of the departments, he prolelTes,
agreeable to the rate of charges slated in his hand bill. Such
fubfeription is now open, and the signatures of many re!pe£l
able gentlemen .already obrainejd. He therefore injorms his
friends and futh Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has not
the honor of being known, that he lhal! in a few days take
the liberty of waiting upon them and foliciiing their support
and protection.
N. B. Horses are properly prepared for those Ladiet and
Gentlemenwho with to be intruded.
Nov. 9. "k&f,
Treasury Department,
1 September 28, 1796.
NOTICE isjhereby given," that prcpofals will be re
ceived at the office of the Secretary of the Tr oafury
until the expiration of the firft day of March next en
f4ing, for thefupply of all rations which may he re quired
fpr the use of the United State®, from the firft; day of
June, 1797, to the thirty-firft day of May, 1798, both
days inclusive, at theplaees and within the diftriefcs here
after mentioned, viz. At Ofwego; at Nia'gafa ; at
Pjefque lfee; at Sandufky Lake, and on Sandufky
River ; at Detroit; at Michilimackinac; at Fort-Frank
lin i at Pittsburgh; at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hamilton ;
at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-J«fferfon ; at Grenville; at
, Picque Town and Loramies Store ; at Fort Adams ; at
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance ; at any place below Fort
Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Eric; at Fort
Steuben ; at FortMaffac ; at awy place from Fort MaiTac
to the south boundary ot the United States oa the river
; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiatanon.
If supplies lhall be required lor any posts or places not
mentioned in this notice, all fucfi supplies ,fnall be fur
niihed at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
I pods before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed oa
between the United States and the Contractor.
The rations to be supplied arc to confifl of the fol
io T/ing articles, viz. A
One pound two oulices of bread #r flour.
One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounces of
pork or bacon.
Half a gill of rum, brandy or whiskey.
One quart and half a pint of £alt."\
Two quarts ©f Vinegar, ( u j
rr. n , r o /" P er hundred ration*
1 wo pounds ol Soap, ( r
One pound of Candles, J
The rations are to be furnifhed in fnch quantities, as that
there at all times during the said term, be fuilicient
for the coufumption of the troops at Michilimackinac, De
troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, for the term of fix month* in
advance, and at each of the other posts, for the term of
at lead three months in advance, in good an d wholesome
provifions,if the fame shall be required. If is to be unj
derltood, that the Contra&or is to be at the exjwcnce and
rifle of iffuirg the supplies to the troops at each pod, and
that all loiTes fuftuined by the depredations of an enemy, or
by means of the troops of the United States, shall be paid
for at the price of the articles captured or destroyed, oil
the depofitioFis of two or raiore pcrfons of creditable cha
racters, and the certificate of a commifliwcd officer, as
certaining the eircumftances of the loss, and the amount
of the ai tides for which eompenfation IhalJ be claimed
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64,
South Second-Jlrut.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
For failing Sixty Thousand Dollars, agreeably to an Aft of
the Legislature of Pennfvlvaaia, pafled during the lall
ieflion, for building a Stone Bridge over the River
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, in the County of
Berks. Dollars,
1 Prize of 20,00© Dollars - ao,ooo
1 do. of io,ooo do. - - 10,000
3 do. of 5,000 do. - 15,000
4 do, of a,OOO do. - - 8,000
*0 do. of ljdco do. - 20,000
39 do. of 500 do. - . 19,500
80 do. of aOO do. - - 10,000
soo do. of . 100 do. - ac.ooo
300 do. of 50 do. - 15,000
1 do, of 500 do. to.be paid the pofTef- )
for* f the firll drawn no.)
5 do. of 3j*©o do. to be paid poflfefTors )
of the five lad drawn nos £
9,400 do. o 15 do. : - 141,000
10,054 Pfizes 300,000
icyo46 Blanks
30,000 Ticketa at Ten Dollars 300,000
All Prises shall be paid fifteen days after the drawing is
finifhed, upon the demand of a pofleflor of a fortunate
jicket, fubjeft to a deduction of twenty per cent. Ihe
Drawing will commence as oonas the Tickets are disposed
of, or perhaps (boner, of which public notice will be given.
Philip Miller, Peter Ker/bner, William Wttman>
Joseph Hiejler, James Diemer, Thomas Dundas %
James May> John Otto, John Keim, Daniel
Sebajlian Miller, Commissioners.
Reading, May the 9th, 1796-
Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. a, to be had at the
above oflice, where the earlieil inlormation of the draw
ing of the Washington No. a, and Patterfoxi
are received, and check books for examination and regif
teringare kept.
O&ober 7. aawtf
Brokers Office, and <j. J
COMMISSION STORE-
Np. 63 South Third flreet,oppofite the national new Bank^
SAMUEL M FRAUNCES and JOHN VAN REED,
have entered into co-partnership, under the firm of
FROUNCES & VAN REED, in the business of Brokers,
Conveyancers and Commiflion merchants. They buy and
fell on commiflion every species of llock, notes of hand,
bills of exchange, houses and lands, &c.
£~Money procured on deposits, &c. &c. all kinds cf
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatnefsand
dispatch; accounts adjufled, and books fettled, in the
ftioii corre& manner, fconflant attendance will be given.
1 They solicit a share of the public favor ; they are deter
mined to endeavour to deserve it.
N. B. The utmofl secrecy observed.
SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES,
JOHN VAN REED.
: Phflad. AHguft 27, 1796. m&wtf
• Lottery and Broker's Office,
• No, 64, South Second street.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. a, for sale
Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
r the Vate lottery.
\ Check Books kept for examination and rcgiftering, for
. the City of Washington, No. a, and Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information where
i tickets are to-be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
t tickets, A complete kfl of all the prices in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
- examination.
? The fubferiber solicits the application of the public
• and his friends, who wifti to purchase or fell Bank Stock,
1 Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
5 &c. or to obtain money on deposit of property.
C Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
3 sale at Ten Dollars each, which will be drawn early in
( the Spring.
n Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, August 18, 1796. mth
s
>t —- - *1 wr - - 111
t PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO
d —No. 119 —
CHESHII T-STR E E T.
[Prise Eight Dollars p«r Ajmnnj.}