of tf,e ™ Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1602.]
SALES L>Y AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DRY GOOD S.
( Forenoon^ —Edward Fox, No. ss,
. Monday' &uth I'ront-ftreet,
J Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 65
C South Front-street.
r f" Forenoon—John Connelly, Old City
Vtmfdaii< AuJlioji, JJ». 73 foutfo Fron*Arett.
J Afternoon—WiUb® Shwuion, N>,
C 183 High-street.
Wednefdaj \ Af i eft °°"~ Pe l er No. 74
J \ lcruth Third-ftrcet.
Thurfdai i Fo 'eoooa—Edward Fox.
my I Afternoon—John Connelly. ' I
Friday \ Forenoon—William Shannon.
5 Afrernoon—John Cornell/.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benfon."
For SAVANNAH^
THE FAST SAILING SAIP
s wifc Packet,
N Patrick Gnbbin, Mafler, J
32^'NOW lying at Smith's wharf, !
above Pace-llreet. !s haudfome-I
1y for passengers, and will fail on
Saturday, sSthinii. trr freight or pafTage, apply
to rhe JVlafter en hoard, No. South Frynt- l
fireet, or of the fubferifcers, at Franhford. ' I
A r . C5 3 y. Frazier.
;o - <!«Bth j
For LONDON, " f
" THE SWEXJISH SMOW " |
Adolphz,
Expired to fail in all the relent month—A
ftw tons of Goods are wanted 011 Freight, and
v. -U I'?? tak<v on moderate terms, if speedy appli
cation is snade. Apply to
Seter Blight,
Back of his new buildings, Dock-street.
Oft. 19 * . -<$ ■
For Freight or Charter,
The Dani/h Brig
Abel Catherina,
Burthen about 160 tons. \
1 HIS vessel is now ready to receive on beard a \
cargo, and may be dispatched to any port in Eu
rope or the Meditsfrranean in eight days.
* A ?tb t° tJ* Captain on board, or to thefubferi- 1
ber- JAiaES YARD. \ '
1 9. diet
For Freight or Charter, i
Afpjhk THE GOOD BRI6
S U K S Y, ;
Isaac Vredenburg, Master ; 5
NOW lying at Clifford's whart, and in compleat 1
drder to recetoe a cargo. For terms please to ap- c
ply the Captain an board, or
John Sijrin,
No. 81, Arch-street.
WHO HAS sOS SALE, , <
2000 wt.of double refined Saltpetre
600 wt. cf F F Gua Powder
300 barrels of Herrings
bufheU of Timothy Seed (\
150 cafe* of Claret, firft quality ft
jAnd a 'quantity of Sherry Wine.
Sept. 29. ritf
Antigua Rum,
JUST arrived at Wilmington, Delaware
State, and now landing from on hoard tha
Bri|» A.*live, William William:, Milter,
One hundred hhds. 3d & 4th proof,
And for Sale by
jthu HoHingfworth G" Co.
■ Wilmington, Sept. 21. fltf
•WjKag-fcT" N. B. The above Brig,
the Irig GAYOSO, are
vfr f° r Sale or Charter, and ft
now ready to receive a cargo
on board, it Wilmington. Apply as above.
An elegant Hoitfe, in Arch Street.
TO he let and entered on immediately a large
and elegant houl'e at the Corner of Arch and
Ninth Street. There are two drawing rooms _
and one dining room—the Lirgefl is 31 feet by
a5 —and two are so comi&iled by folding doors •
is to make but one. Also, fife bed rooms, be- 2
fides 5 in the garret, well fijiiflied for fervanti. g
Ticfe »re flftbles and a coach hobfe, with evry r{
BOBvenience for a family. Enquire at No, 29, m
In North Seventh Areet, or at Wo. jiß, Arch t j,
Street.
A>ig. ij. aawjy.
Chocolate and JVluftard ,
Manufaflured as uflial,
•G(fi«er and Pepper ground
Shelled or Pearl Barley 'J 1
Bhiladalphia Porter, Becr, A!e and Cyder
Londort Porter
Taunton and Button Ale 0(
Ked Port ain> other Wines, eitbe bottled,
«r by the pipe, (juarter-caffc or gallon—fuilable w
fcr exportation or home confumptiou—
For Sale by
yobn Haworth.
No. 9S sooth Front fireet? A
THE SUBSCRIBERS,
OF JiIMES GRIENLtArj
HEREBY give notice, that they havedifpofed »
a(the p*operty assigned to then) for the securing •"
the payment of the nbte=, acceptances, and en
jdarfaments given by Edward Fox, for'theufe
jof the fa'nl James Greenleaf; and the holders of ar
such notes, acceptances, and endorsements, are
hereby notifyed that the fubferibers will fettle
toitli them for the amount of their refpeclive
tlaims, both principal and interest, at
»ny time before the 10th d»y of Qtflober next;
after which day, the holders not applying, will
he agreeably to the terms of dilign-
Bvent. •
ApplicMtonj. maik at south-east cprner
of Doqk 4iwf Second" streets (the Dock«Areet
fide), hetween the feours of eleven lad one o'
•lock every tky, Sundays excepted.
Henry Pratt,
v '7' ho. W. Francis, In
John Miller, Jun. '
i John AJhley, * '
■ . Jatoh Baker.
Philadelphia, August *B, 1797. d
" TKNERIFFJi WINE. 1
1 LANDING at Walnut-Ilreet wharf, TENE- (
BIPFE WiNE, of excellent qujlity, in pipes and Bui
half pipe:-, for iiile hy 'JAMUS YARD. ell,
O.St. >o. eoßt £
PHILADELPHIA: FRIDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 27,1797
Choice St. Croix Sugar and Rum
Coffee
Madeira and Teneriffe Wine
For Sa c by
. James Yard,
No. —, South fuurtli-lireej;.
6, —? a,<; <tnv
From Marseilles,
itr THE CARGO
et. Of the9w»d.ioi iJartjus GiuTavus Adolphuj,frotii
T -, f Marseilles, confining of the following articles,
is discharging at Mr. Latimer's wharf, and for
74 sale by the fuMcrihers
BRANDY, well flavored, of s & 4th proof
CUret, in hoglheads
Dmo, in cases
Frontigniac Wine, in cases sf 30 hoitles
Olive Oil, of a superior quality, iu balketsofi
and 1 a bottles
Capers
Olives
Almonds
Dry Verdigreafe
j Writing Paper
; Umbreilas (Silk) of 18, 30 and 32 inehee
rf . I TafTeties
e ' {■ Long and Ihort white Kid Gloves for Women
Silk Stockings
Handkerchiefs, in imitation of Madias«
Artificial Flowers and Garkiuds
Ostrich Feathers
Ribbons
_ Perfumery
Scented IJair-Powder and Pomatum
'Manna in forts ' '
Cr«aaj Tartar.
. BENFAMIN MORGAN Sc.
ROBERT; ANDRE WS.
September 27. eotf
d The Norfolk Mail STAGE.
" nPHI6 Stage fcaru from the GEORGE Tavern,
JL at the corner ol Xeco«d and Areb Streets, in
Philadelphia, every TutfduyyTburfJay, and Satur
. day, at 3 o'clock, io the irorning ; arrives at Do- I
ver the firft day, at Snowhill the second day, at '
Northampton Court House the third day, and on I
the morning of the fourth day the paffengora find "
a fafe and comfortable packet to convey them to
. Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton ferry,
every Tuefdiy, Thurflay and Saturday, anithe
( Stage starts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every a
Monday, VVednelday and Friday ; puts up at Snew '
Hill the firft night, at Dover the ad night, and ar-
rives in Philadelphia iu the evening of the third '
1 day. . e
Thediftance on this route,between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is So miles lei's than on any stage route I
between thofs places.
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road,
which is most excellent indeed. The proprietors
willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
paflenger, who, after having performed this route/
will fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the fame
distance, so good a road in America. C
August ft, dim.eotf. •'
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper thaa any other io
the City—
OF SIZES,
From 8 by 6 to 19 Wy 14,
•By the.single Rpx or Q«arMi'.y, m«y be had at the .
store of the Subfcrtbers, corner of Arch and Front- v
ttroct. bl
James C. & Samuel W. Fijher.
Pliil Mrlphia,
• Ung St wmwftf / w
Cea'ar Shingles. e!
THE fubferiber has a quantity of 3 feet Cedar ni
Sliingles cf-« superior quality, for sale at 13
dollars p«r thousand.
William Ha Howell, /
No. 193 NoPth Third-Jlreet.
July »7- eout (|
Imported in the Jhip Pigeu,
And for lale by John Morton, No. ni, South at
Front-street, 01
Hyson of
Flyfon Skin (rnxn
Tonng Hyson ' -
Imperial J
April 20. eotf
NOTICE.
ALL indebted to th? ellate of Jomn j
Striker, late of Tinnecum Townfllip,
Buck's County, are requeflod to pay off their t - t
rel'ppflive debts j and riiofe havirg any de
mands against said eilate, are delired to bring in ur
their accounts, to co
JOSEPH CIIAMBERLAIX, lit ) E.xou- rAI
MALLET PREP ALT, 5 tors. Fo
Sept. 28. «J lawaw
*" Mas. GRAT TA N~
INFORMS her the public in general,
that her house, No. 192, A/larkst-ftreet, wiil con
tinue open during the fieknefs.
Board and Lodging in a Teparate room, TfcN
dollars, in 4 double room, right dollars.
For the convenience those gentlenwn who
have not thair amilies in town, Mrt. Grattau
will reccire gentlemen to dine at haot a dollar
a day. v Augvfl 29. —6t
Jult publidled,
And to be fold at the Bcokftores of H. £s' P.
Rice, No. ?o, Market-street | J. Ormrod,
No. 41, Chefnut-llreet, and W. Young,
corner of Chefnut and S6cotld-11 Feets,
An accurate System of Surveying;
IN WHICH IS CONTAINED, p ()|
I. Decimal frs&ions., in a plain,
and easy manner.
». The extraction of the square root.
3. Pfain'trigonometry, rectangular and ob
lique. TC)
4. An exaiS method to cast up the contents dai
of lands. the
5. Field surveying. Ge
The whole heing performed without the use in 1
of fcale-and compafles, on a table of logarithms, of
In which is given Tome account of the variation of
of the needle, and the causes of its attrition, def
By SAMUEL MOORE. ||
Auouft I*. MWIW r
Lately Pubiifhed, till-
In nne vol. 8 vo. (price one dollar in boards) fold et '
by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner ef Second and
Chefnut streets, ' n '
A Collection of Papers on .the fubje£t of c f R
Billious Fevers, prevalent in the United the
States for a few years palt. crs
Compiled by NO Alt IVEBSTER, jun.
Containing leiurs from Doflors Seaman, Smith,
Buel, Taylor, Ramsay, Monfon, Reynolcb, Mitch
ell, on contagion, &c. &c.
Sept. Ij. jt Get
By John Fen no, N O, 119 Chefnut Street.
lm Samuel & Mic.-s i'llhtr,
asr yovr ope»"<'•»
A t their Warchoufc, No.' 57, Dock Street, a fre(h
aftortment of Woyien and otbir gco.is, fmtable to
Oie leafbn, ficcivej by the.late arrivjl: Uoai Ua-~-
• Wild. 0
Tlkft banc ttlfo for Sal.-,
I-ifiMn --j f
I'eneriffe (
, m Sherry, and (" ■ P'P« s >"hds, apd garter caftr
eB, Port vVines, J
for AfVirted q>j- Cil 's xare in crates, &c.
. lol.i rjo' gjtl. dlw^tawjw.
LET—At a moderate Rent,
The principal part of aHOUSE,
WH HIN a Cwrt dillanee of the C'>ffec-houfe,
. Tt/hiA has beeaoccupied far the laU four month., '
confining of a good dining room and parlour, two
bed rooms and a drefiing room, two garrets, kitch
en, wood vault and cellar, all in excellent order,
fit for the immediate reception of a fnuH family.
None need apply butthofe who are refpegiable and
regular. Intjuire at the office of tins Gaeette.
OA - »4- dtf
, n Red Port Wine.
Just arrived, by the brig Iri,, capt, .Rhodes, from
* » Oporto, z
Reel Porx Vv r ine in pipes,hhds.and quarter cajks
6c cwt. Cork, for sale I>y
Philips, Cra?nond, & Co.
July 2i. * $
C USTOM-HOUS£,
Philadelphia, Srpt. zsd, J797.
THE Me'chams who at this time prefer hav
ing their .vdFd/ and Merchandize entered »ti<l
cleared at Cheftcr or Marcua Hook,' —are here
by natrfied, That in compliance with their ile
ltre, and "laon convift.'oq that measure
>, be mutailK* beneficial to them inil to the
a United Ststw. The eullecloi of the cuftams has
- made arrangements to efiaiiiih for feme time
- btanches of the cuflom-houfe at thole plices,
t where every accommodation in his power will
a he given to the merchants. dtw
TO BE SOLD^
And immediate poffejfion given,"
, A Convenient Well finilhed Brick Tenement,
with a cook house and other eut houses.situ
, atcd in a pleasant part of the borough of Wilming
, ton, in the State of Delaware—The lot of ground
has forty feet front on Weft-flreet, and extends
j through the square to Pasture-street, on which is 1
erected a liable aDd carriage honfe.
ALLEN M'LANE.
: Wilmington, Aug. 30.
City Commijfioners Offiee, 1
! August 29, 1797.
IN pursuance ofan Ordinance of the Seled and !
, Common Councils, passed the lid day of May last.
Proposals ip writ ing will be received hy the City
Commifiioners for one month from the itt of Sep
tembcr next, for letting to rent on leafea for oce
year to commeneethe firft day of January next, thfc
following public property of tilt tity— '
The wharf and landing on Vine Street, . '
Also 011 SafTafras, 1 J
Mulberry,
And High Streets, J
Clicfnut and Walnut Streets, Draw Bridge, with '
tlw Scale and Filh Houifes, Spruct, Pine and Cedar
Streets. i
The cellar under the City-Hall.
The Tavern at the middle ferry on Schuylkill, 1
with the lots contiguous thereto, (except so much
thereof as shall be occupied by any buildings ercit.
Ed for the use of the Colle&or of the Tolls, or be ,
necessary for the toll-gates.) '
An it- 3 jtawim.
LOS T, " 5
OK the Paffyunk Road, between the Bloc Batt 11
and the city, a Fowling Pii'ce, vrilh a brass c
ha; rel and silver fight ; on ths plate of the butt are p
the letters " Jamaica, Q_ 99" —aud on the barrel
near the lock '• London" and the T«wtr (lamp. Cl
Whoever will return the'aid pieceto Jnkn Bennard,
at the sign of the B'ue Ball oti the PalTyuhk Road, a
or the office of this Gagette, shall receive a reward .
of Four French Crowns, 1
Sept. ij. *3t
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT agreeably to an ail of Congrcfi of the It
United States ef America, passed at Phila
delphia, the itfli day cf May,-1796; laying du
ti»s on Carriage!, for the conveyance of persons,
which lhall be kept by or for auy person, fir his rt
or her own use, or to let out to hire, or for the
conveyance of paffcrgers, the fcveral dutio# and
following, to wit :
For and upon every Coach, J j do!?.
upon every Clariot, II dols.
upon every Pod Chariot, 11 dols.'
upon every Poll Chaise, II dols. ■
upon every Phaeton,with »r without top, ni
9 dols. f r
upon every Coachee, 9 dols. re
upon other Carriage*, having pannel work ,JJ
above, with blinds, glades or curtains, Pi
9 dols. iv
upon f»ur wheeled Carriages, having fra
med polls and tops with steel firings, 6 -
dols.
upon four wheeled Carriages, with wood-
iron springs or jacks, 3 dols.
upon Curricles with tups, 3 dols.
upon Chaises with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols.
upon other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carriages, with ileel or
iron
For and upon all qther two wheel carriages, 1 dols.
upon every four wheeled cirriage, having
framed pods and-.ops, and refling up-
on wooden spars, 1 dols.
The Collectors of the Revenue for the firft Sar-
vcy of the DillriA of Pennsylvania, will attend
daily, until the 30th day of September a'xt, for „
the purpose of receiving the duties on Carriages, at
Germantowu; at thehoufe of Daniel St. Clair,Efq.
in the County of Montgomery ; and at thehoufe
of James Chapman, Esq. iu the County of»Bucks ; L
of which all persons polfeffed of such Carrkges are
desired to take notice. B
Notice is also given, J
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dif- ]
tilled spirituous liquors, thatlicenees will be grant-
ed to them ; on-; licence' for carrying on tire busi
ness of or! Wines, in a less quantity, or
in less quantities than thirty gallons—and one li
cence for carrying on the blifinefs of retailing Spi- ® Ol
rituous liquors in less quantities than 10 gallons, at 01
the feme time and at thc-fame places, by the offic-
crs legally autho<;ifed to praut such licences. j],
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpeiior of the Rtvent;e of the firil fut
vey of the lliftriCl of Peticfylvairia.
Office of Infpeftioa at ■> , he
Garmar.tqw, nth Sept. I"87- i l 9
j- Philadelphia, OS. 13.
' THE subscribers inform their friends and cuilo
mfrs iu town and country;that their (lores ar.-. now
efh open in t;u- ci'y. and others are-iafiy opening, and
to that from :k« pf.-fent appearance of the prevailing
disorder" have feiiion to hope, their friends may
ihorily come to tJk; city with perfect faf. ty. liy
several lat.c arrivals, 11 [irube(. have received frcih
supplies us GOODS.
ki . Rciirt Smith & Co. P *" Gallaudet & Co.
Jobn £)av;s Co. '. wi fs is French,
h'&h O .Sitjitfj, George Dobfon,
Wiltberger and Smith, Thomas Kyerfan,
■ — and Co. T. R. Hardettberg.
Jacob ipcrry and Co. John Smith and Co
-7 Ozvt'H iy jona. Jones, 'Thomas Orr,
■ J Kcppele eg" Zentx.Ntg.-r, William Barker iz> Co.
1/ ■ddaxiiiaitfnger, Thomas /lrmat tf Son.
vo ' Y*b* ''J 2 XtffltHi jun. m-cl Co.
:h- Q<9 - ' i
i y r : P bale's Museum.
bJ TTHrS valuable repository of the works of Na-
L ture, To well calculated to deHght the mind
and-enlarge the undfrfiaiiding, is opened daily, as
ufttal. It ftandsin an airy and healtlty fituarion,
and free from the epidemic that at prefect afHifls
the city ; it may, therefore, be frequented with
the greatest fafety.
As an Amufiment, the Rudy of Nature is the
Cf mo ft rational tuid plraring : as a Science, the mod
sublime and inflrutSlive. It elevates the mind and
atpande the Tbey
IVbtm Nature 1 \'jor£j eon ebarm, ni'ttb God bitx/ilf
" Hold converse
Many interring additions have lately been
made to this Mufium : and the feathered tribe,
•- containing a variety ef the mull rare atid fcnrjtiful
il ftibjeSs, is now very udvantayeoufly arranged.
Waxen Figures, of Men large as life (fains oftliem
cads from nature) are here drejied i-« their pn jier
e - habits, and placed in atcitudes ehar;»<aeri&k of tiieir
c refpe-aive nations. Here may be fae» the North
, American Savage, and 'he Savage 6T9outh-Ameri
e ca—a laboring Chinese. and the Chinese Gentle
| man—the sooty African, and the Kamtfchadalc—
j with some Natives of the South Sea (Hands. The
immense variety and intcreftipg diversity whiah
_ this Museum offers to the view may be i'een but
•ennot be deXctibed with full eff^vSt.
Price only I-4th of a dollar.
, Seyt. 18 • raw
; Boston Glass Manufactory.
I ' 1 I HE citizens »f the United States are hereby
9 J iafornaed, that the manufacture of Window
, pl&fs is new commenced it the Glass Houfc in Bos
ton.
It is needless to fay any thing of the excellent ,
quality of the Boston Glals, wit isfo well known
throughout the United States toh<; in every refpeft
greatly superior to any ever imparted from Europe, j
It will be cut to any size commonly used ; and
I may be constantly had by applying to Cbarles F. ,
Kuppek, at the Glass House.
Orders from the distant States to be aidreffed to
Mr. Samuel Gore, Court-street, Boston.
Boston, Sept. 30,1797. O4 —aawSw
JVleJjri. Timothy and Mason, Cbarltplon I Jdjffrs. t
Hodge and "Boy lan, Halifax, N. C. Mrjrs. IVillett ,
and O'Conntr, Ntrfalk ; Mr. £llis Price, Alexandria ;
Mejfre. Tundt and jtrown, Baltimore ; Air. Hopkins,
New-Turk ; and ASeffrt. Hud/on t2* Goodwin, Hart- I
ford; Mr. Seymour, Sa<tonnub ; are requeued to insert
the above omce a iveek 6 -lueeis. The auounte to be for- •
warded to tbe Editor.
At a Meeting of the Board of j
Property, June 6, 1797, >
' Prefont John liall, Sea'ry. }
Fi incis Johnfton, It. G. >oflandofike (
Dan. Bividhead, S. G. J t
Nirhtrlas BetttngCT, J -
frrfus >
Samuel Cunningham. J
111 this rife the proof of service of notice be- j
ing infufficiont, It is ordered that notice begiv j:
en in one of the Philideinliia ?nd Vork ar.wfjia. [
pcrs weakly, for at ieafj eight weeks to the j,
heirs or affigntes of Jsipuel Cunnmrham de- g
cealed, to atttend the board oil the Ai'ft Monday
in November next, to shew t-aule wh.y a-patent
i fljonld not jfluo t« Nicholas Ufttinger for the
land in question.
( A true Copy.)
JOIIN lIALL,
Secretary of the Land Office. c<
Aug. 1;. * iawji w. Js
At the Federal Blast Furnace, Z
In Curvet—-for Slitting, Platting, and Railing th
Mii.tL.ti , ja
SEYMOUR'S Patent Rollers.
THEIR, fuperioritj conjijls in being free from _
holes and honey-combed places, utihich are com- K
mo"l]i found in rollers arfl in find, or clqy
moultis. Thrfe patent rollers are raft in iron
moulds, prcuwufly heated, and <wUl be found to
be more dense, so/id end durable than any rollers
heretofore used. Another important advantage
they j have over otlxrs:, is, that the Meets require
no turning, but are immedaitely fit for life, and A
from their accuracy, run with left friilion, and
require iefs water to make therti perform their
'Jjork. They may be had by application to the
Patentee in Plymouth, of Gen. Nathaniel' Goo- C|
•win, qr of \Meffrs. Thatcher and fiaytuard. . I,'
Brflon, Aug. 3t. Sept. 19. §6t. sc
This Day is Pfrbliflied, ur
BY \!e(T. Dobfan, Campbell, Afcc, and the f u ,
other Bookfellcrs, ur]
Price One Dollor and twent>vfiVc ecnts. jj c
Elegant y ptinled on Wovf .pa^er % and Hot- p e
frtjed,
By John T-hnunpfon,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of ths fdveral States with each other, and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the promirusit features of each Constitution, and
clafling together their most impertant prpvifions.
under the f'veral heads of admialitration ; with !
Notes andObfervations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of SoUth-Caroline, Be
L L. D, artcf member of. the Congress ef the
United Spates. Tr
Bedicated to th» People of th« United States.
N. S. A few Copies printed on ap inferior pa- i
ptr, at j-4lhsof a i Jlar. '
Febrwas 7 6 mwf
Public Notice is hereby given, r j
THAT the Commifiioners for the Diftriit of
Soutlvwark have removed their hall to the house j; L
formerly occupied by Samuel Guff, Chriftijn at in cc(
the corner of Fifth llreet. Osft. a.
Act laying Duties on Stamped Vellum <**
Parchment and Paper.
A FEVV copies of the above ail m; y be had at
he OiKcc of thoOazpfasf the Uuiti'd .States, No f a |
19, Chel'uut-ftr.vtv Jiljr 19. ( er
io- School Books and Stationary.
Z W. YOUNG,
H ?°- V*' Stconi-flrcet} cnrnir of Chefnut-rtreet,
' n,)W r. aiy for faie, a very large aflbrt-
French, Latin and Greek
ih o<,rtOuL BOOKS, Alji, such elementary books
on Science, as are geacraliy read in the acadenms
'o, aud colleges throughout (ha United States.
- •' i-ATELy rußLisnED,
Sheridan's Dictionary, the flxth edition, in one
large vol. 8 vo price 3 dais.
Ditto,
Ditto, common, price 1 dol. $0 cts.
All farts of drawing, packing, ntinting, and
writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards', Paftei.-oards,
n. , , a^ n, S .a*" 1 batting Papers; printed Blanks,
•0. uC lsoo '"'> War, Wafers, and other articles, of
the heit quality, used in the counting hotafe, or
i public office.
CataJbgues cf a miscellaneous colledUon of
BOOKS, with tkc price of each affixed, to be had
a- by. inquiring as.above. OA. 24 (W v6w
.7 U J Pul-'fied, and now Silling,
», % benjamin da vies,
Is At his Book-Storf, No 68, Hfeb-Street,
h The AMERICAN REPOSITORY
AND ,
If ANNUAL it EG ISTERfor theUNITLD STATES
, FOR THE year I7gß :
Containing complete aud corre& JiiU of the Execu
, £ ive, I eyTffativd and Judiciary
/ DEPARTMENTS of GOVERNMENT,
And a variety of ufcfui table?, neccffary to be
known in ever)' State of the Union.
> EwjcU'rfiftid ivit'o txvo bandfomc Engravings,
One of is dcpiilive of a mclanchb.y fecne
that occurred during the American war.
1 .Oil. 18. *,
r ——— r
\ Walker 8c Kennedy,
No. H, svmh Front Street,
haVe FOft sale,
roo Hogfljeadis of prime Georgia Tobacco,
ALSO,
1 5° Pipes of Bonrdcaux Brandy,
1 ia Pipes of old Port Wine-
Odt 17. tf
Thomas Herman Leuffer,
North Fifth ftrect, corner of North dliey, No. 34,
HAS FOR SALE,
EXCELLENT red Hourdsaux Wine in cases and
boxes, fix years old
White Gravos Wine in calks
Ticklenburgs
Ruflia Sail Cloths
Ravens Duck
Bag Linen
Hessians
Diaper and Table CUth
Empty bags
Csramoa German Cloth ,
An aflortmeijt of black coloured Riibons
Fine German Laces
About twelve tans Ruflia clean Hemp
Clover Seed
Italian Soap, in small boxes, for family us«
Window Glass Aug, 29. —law
Imported in the latefl: arrivals fronj
Amsterdam and Hamburg, and forfale by
B. & J. Bohlen,
l ar gt ajortment of fne French Cambria,
V latillas Ruflia and Dutch fail cloth
Bnttannias Writing, post, and print-
Rouanes ing paper
Brown Holland Dutch calf ikins
Checks and flripes Prime madder
Ticklenburgs ShelPd Barley
Oznahurgs Looking gla«fl*es
Whitelheeting3 Hollowglafs ware
Diaper Slates
Brown rolls Coffee rrwlls
Umbrellas Brass kettles
«:tir ribbons Scythes and straw knives
Black and white laces Toys aflforted in boxes
Best Holland Gin n pipes
London particular Madeira Wine '
«4- m&thtf
MR. L A IL S ON,
WITH an intention to render service, and unde
ceive those Performers, who duripghis abfenee Mr.
Jaymond has thought proper to engage, thinks h
wruld be wrong in hiin not to inform thofc that
arc engaged, that it is withou'his approbation, and
that he will not be in any w4y answerable for Mr.
Jaymond'* engagements.
PHILIPPE LAJLSON.
Alexandria, Sept. 15, 1797. 6t.
Excellent Bourdeaux Brandy
Ditto ditto Claret in cases
Just received, and for Sale by
Rurtdlt & Leeoh.
Aug. It. 2awtf
THIS DAY WAS PUBLISHED, *"
And for faie by 7ROttdS BOBSOW, at the
Stone Houle, No, 41, foitth Second flreet,
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED.
CenGfiing of a variety of Mifeellaneous Pieces for
the inftru<s.ion and amusement of YOUN6 PER.
SONS—SixVolurpeshandfomely printedand bound
Up in two volumes, price Two Dollars.
The variety and excellence ps thfffc pieces as
such, that the book needs only to be knevn to b»
univeffally efleemed one of the most valuable pub
lications th t can be put into the hantJs of young
ptrfsns.
" Delightful talk to rear the tender thought,
To teach the young idea how to {hoot,
To pour tha fre£h ioftrudion o'er the mind,
To breathe th' enlivening fpirit,and to fix
The generous purpose in theglowihg breast."
Thomsok.
August 34. mv.'f4W
THIS D AY IS PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS QQBSON, at the Stone Uouftf,
No. 41, south Second street.
Letters and Conversations,
Betweenfeveral Lrdiniir.praTing and w
tcrefting l'ubjeits.
Translated from tbe Dutch of Madam it CumUjt
with alterations and improvements,
Priuted •«Jint paper, andnmt/y b*und,
Prue one dvllar.
AMIDST the tide of modern Romances, painiliijg
tales ef extraordinary distress, dr of defper'at# w
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," aul
whicli it Would be for the honor of young ladies
be ignorant of, this little book comes forward to [<f
licit notice, where, in a variety of iacidents, cot ex
ceeding the bounds of real lift, the proper, b-caufj
elegant and natural dignity and importance of the Femii/
character is exhibited in an ire-roiling foinr of view,
and prrfents examples of real and attainable cxoel
leace.
The publifter was so much pleased with the pen
fal, that !w was pcrfuaded he fbould do a pleasing
ferviau t» ibi cemtaurity by ftsadißj it ki o cir-eur
[Vol vjme XII<£ JANly* ZXL'XBf.-JXir.MBJ'mCKMSKB
PHILAD2 LP HIA ,
I 7'UTDAY EVENING, Octobtr 27.
j ¥<i> tl.>e Fr. elslders and others, inhabitants nf
! ilt>eir!p!)ta ; the refpetlful addref of the
' pil fcrilers.
Fellow-Citizens,
WHILST our city was almost depopu
lated by the absence of the greater part of
\ ! ie citizens in consequence of the late pre
vailing epidemic, a number of those ' of our
fellow-citizens, who were absent, as well as
those present, considering that the nightly
watch edablifhed for the proteftion of the
city, was, from its local situation, inadequ te
to the necessary care and protection of the
city, inasmuch as the aid afforded -by the
t inhabitants when at their usual places of re
sidence was wanting to their support,
in cafe or emergency : And an
idea having been suggested of the neceff.ty
of a patrolirig party, as well for the sup
port of order among the lower class of the
citizens (who from their Amotions were
most numerous) as to guard the property of
I" those who were absent, from the evil and
unlawful intentions and designs of those who
j might be ill disposed.
The fubferibers, .under these impressions,
j voluntarily enrolled thenifelves under the
authority and direction of the mayor of the
! city, and, in a subordinate manner patroled
! through efpecially those
t parts most vacant and uninhabited, from
| ten at night until five o'clock in the mfarn
ing : Atid we humbly trull, that our eir
. deavonrs have not been altogether ineffeft
' ual, either in the support of order, or in
the proteftion of the property of our fel
low-citizens. And as we voluntarily en
tered onrfelves for the performance of these
qtitics, we (hall continue therein, as long as
. the inayftr of the city (hall think that, our
arp necessary } nor we look
foir or expeft.any compensation for the trou
ble and fatigue we have undergone, were
our circumstances such as to eriable us to
support our families during filch ah interval
of fatigue ar.4<diftrefs ; for knowing as we
do how much the citirens in general have
> fu/fered by Uie late.calamity, we (hall rely
wholly on the justice and generosity of our
f:llow-citizens, and remain with the utmost
refpeft,
Signed for and in behalf of the catroles by
. HENRY DEFOREST, capt.
Philadelphia, Oft. 26, 1797.
Gentlemen,
With ptaafifre T acknowledge, that, in
my opinion, your fervicesiavc greatly tend
ed to protest the property of our fellow-ci
tizens from accidents by fire aad against the
depredations of ill disposed persons—And
in the name of our fellow-citizens I return
you :ry thanks for your exertions, at the
fame time it is my opinion that after the
28th inft. the night watch of the city will
be competent fbr its proteftion.
HILARY BAKER, Mayor.
Philadelphia, 26th Oft. 1797.
Mr. Henry Deforeft and company
patrole of the city.
For the Gazette of the United States.
MR. FENNO,
WHILE I profefs myfelf one of the
Warmest admirers of the political pamphlets
of Mr. Cobbett, I cannot but express my
concern some of the sentiments of this
editor, in the late numbers of his Gazette—
Sentiments, which, with whatever view de
clared, seem calculated to degrade the Ameri
can charafter, and to cast an odium upon
the principles of our revolution. I (hall on
ly inftancc his comment upon the aneftdote
of Mr. Gibbon and Dr. Franklin, in his
Gazette of the 18th instant. Now, what
ever antipathy he may have to the cfcarafter
of the doftor, (which, upon the score of
generosity and political integrity, far be it
from me to undertake to defend,) he cannot
b»t be aware, that hisSsdifcriminate obfer
vation will equally apply to a Wa(hington,
an Adams, a Jay, and an Hamilton—Cha
rafters, which if I midake not, he has more
than once profeffed to hold in high estima
tion. What then (hall we fay of the con
duft'of Mr. Cobbett ? Is it confident, libe
ral, or wife ? He is an Englishman, nor
does he with to conceal his attachment to
the land that give him birth, its government
and laws ; nor will any generous American
blame him for this partiality. But why in
troduce comparisons, which can have 110
other tendency tlian to revive animosities
which all good men desire to bury in oblivi
on, and to widen a breach, which, in the
present didrafted state of the world, I pre
sume, the real friends of both countries wish
to fee closed ?
If he thinks the inter«ft of his country re
quires nothing less than the deftruftion of
the republican system, he has certainly too
much delicacy and understanding, to at
tempt writing down, under our noses. If
loyalty, in his opinion, can never be mispla
ced, he need not, however, take the trouble
of telling us so. If monarohy be his favorite
form of government, let it exist, fay I,
where it is already eftablilhed, and where
the state of society may perhaps render it eli
gible : But, in God's name ! let 11s quietly
enjoy,' and make the most of the institutions 1
we have framed for ourselves.
While Mr. Cobbett dirtfts his artillery
against jacobinic hypocrisy, and its detella- 1
ble cant, he is engaged in a cause which 1
every honest arid enlightened man must ap- j 1
prove : And I (hall be sincerely pleased, if i
I find that his ra(h and indiscriminate cen- i
{ures (he must excitfe me for calling them ]
so) are to be ascribed to petulance of tem- 1
per, or an indiscreet zeal for the honor of I
his country, and not to a deliberate plan of 1
discrediting the principles and confluences j
of our revolution 'here/whatever may be its
effefls in other parts of the world. ?or even I
upon the fuppofstion of its being an evil, i
ive are to look for its authors, to the other
fide of the water : Ancl let him remember,
that its principles were advocated by Mr.
Burke, the tnan, for whom he juflly ex
preifes fuc'n entbufiaftic admiration.
A Country Subscriber.
Continuation .of L*atefl European Neius 9
received by the William Penn.
LONDON, Augull 26.
Yesterday morning we received the Pan's
papers of the I2d and 22d inft. They are
I principally filled with the report of Thi
. badeau to the Council of Five Hundred,
and that of TYon<jon du Coudray to the
, Council of Elders, on the message of the
; Direftory with refpeft to the march of the
, troops towards Paris, and the revolutionary
. addresses of the army of Italy. The com
missions appointed by both councils for the
invtftigation of this message coincide in re-
J proaching the direftory with imprudence
r and impropriety of conduft, with having
made use of a harflinefs and severity of laii
. g'-tage which circutpftances did not juftify,
j and with having advanced ftatemtnts totally
P unsupported by fads. They consider the
j addresses of the army as abounding in ab
} ridiculous pretensions, and
criminal projefts, expressed in the peculiar
language of the faftious party, which, bri
| bed by foreign powers? has succeeded in
' seducing the troops to turn their arms a
j gain ft the republic.
The reporters of both councils declare
| their aftorii(hment and indignation that the
Direftory has not taken any measures, or
published any proclamation, for the purpose
of censuring these addresses, and preventing
' the dangers with which the nation is threat
ened from the daring enterprize Of a vifto
rious army, which assumes to itfelf the un
conditional power of deliberating. They
' further (late, that the objeftions made by
the Direftory to the proceedings of the le
giilatire body, with refpeft to the pretend
ed proteftion (hewn in them to the priests
' and emigrants, can only be eonfidered as a
means calculated to renew the system of
| proscription en majfe.
As the direftory had indiredlly reproach
ed the legislative body with having thrown
feme obdacles in the progrefi of peace, the
reports of both commillions observe, that
the councils have, for eighteen months pad,
uniformly called, in the moil prefiing man
ner, for the restoration of peace, and that
the events which have lately happened in lt
aly, particularly certain declarations of war
made by the executive power, without the
participation of the legislature, have impe
ded the negociation, and still retard the ter
mination of hostilities.
The commission of the council of Five
Hundred, however declares its readiness to
cad a veil over the orders, in obedience to
which the tioops direfted their march to
wards Paris, as well as to excuse General
Richepaufe, and Le Sage, the commissary,
for having issued the orders, on the ground
of their moral ch&rafters, and of having
merely been the peilive instruments of supe
rior powers. The report of this commission
concludes with presenting the projeft of a
decree, which enafts, that any deliberation
or common wilh expressed by the armed
force, except in cases deteVmined by law,
(hall be a crijne against the constitution, and
that the fending of any addrefies from one
body of troops to another, or to the civil
authorities, (hall be eonfidered as an aft of
sedition.
While the legislative body was engaged
in these eonfiderations, the direftory sent a
new me(Tage to. the council of five hundred,
relative to theexhauded (late of the finances,
and they earnestly desire that fufficient
funds may be provided to meet the pressure
of the public exigencies.
Gen. Gentili, who now commands in
Corsica, is the fame who surrendered Baftia,
and the remainder, of that island to Lord
Hood, in 1794.
The Hon. Mrs. Grattan, sister to Lord
Viscount Falkland, has opened a Milliner's
(hop in Philadelphia.. About three months
ago (he gave a concert, at which almost ev
ery person of consequence appeared.
A suggestion is given in some of the last
Paris papers, that Buonaparte, immediate
ly on the demise of the pope, means him'
felf to assume the Tiara, awl to take the
Holy feat, under the a (Turned title of Pius
VII. This would be a means of restoring
its primitive lujlre to the Church Militant.
Several men, as well as women, have
lately thought it prudent to retire from Pa
ris, in order ti avoid the feenes it is soon
likely to exhibit. Amongst the latter are
Madame Carnot and Madame Tallien.
Privateering was never at such a height
as at present at Rochelle. A letter from
that place fays, almost every tradesman,
even milliners, are concerned in some out
fit or other. As an inftancc of the money
made in that way a draper and a hatter
lately took 1800 livres in one day from pri
vateers' crews.
The sovereign people of Holland having
rejefted the projeft of the constitution fram
ed by their representatives, the " Quotidi
enne" observes 011 this head, that this acci
dent might have been avoided if the Batavi
an legislators, in imitation of the French,
had caused the constitution to be accepted
by the army, previous to its being presented
for acceptance to the people.
Duel.—Tuesday last a duel was fought
neir Leith, between Gecyge Anderfon, eft],
late of Virginia, and Mr. Robert Barker,
the great porter brewer. Mr. Barker fired
firft, and wounded his antagoaift desperately
in the face, the ball carrying off the greater
part of Mr. Anderfon's nose. Mr. A. not
withstanding the pain he must have felt, re
turned the fire, and wounded Mr. B. in the
leg. The seconds then interfered, and the
parties were prevailed upon to (hake hands.
This unfortunate affair originated the day
before, and was occasioned by Mr. B. mak
ing use of sarcastic remarks on the rcgula
' ions of the Lelth affably roosfco, which
Mr. A drew up some years; ago ; one of
which is, that " no person ilmll enter the
TOcjtns with dirty feet."
A Ministerialist, who has been a: the ex
t penfe of a pamphlet against Paivti's system,
| draws the Coucltifion, that if adont
j cd " We might fee lord Thurlow ascending
j a fcaffold with a bricklayer's hod ; the
J Chancellor of the Exchequer following a
. drove of hogs ; and the Bishop of Rochester
' crying Hot Mntton Pies."
| The literature of French politics-appears
j to have gone into new hands. The lillflick
ers are now the principal publishers, and a
writer answers his antagonist by covering his
works with his own. The public are literal
ly a tip toe to acquire knowledge.
The ruling Jlrong in Death.—The
late Mr> Ironmore, when dying, borrowed
a guinea for hi 3 physician's fee, though he
had 55 guinsaa in and iool. in notes
in a waistcoat pocket when he died, and
which he obstinately refufed to pull off,
during the fortnight he kept his bed.
The Miroir states to have received from a
most refpe&able quarter the following par
ticulars" relative to the fubjedt of peace :
The imperial envoy demanded of the di
rectory a categorical answer, and declared,
by order of his majesty, that he would find
himfelf obliged to recommence hostilities, if
Mantua was not restored to the house of
Austria. This decfaration being deliberated
upon, Barras declared, that he would have
Mantua, that he should never cede Mantua.
The question was put, and the majority de
clared, that orders should be given to re
commence hostilities ; but Carnot delivered
an impressive speech, In which he dwelt
with great emphasis, on the incalculable evils
and disastrous confequenoes, which could
aot but result from this determination. He
declared, that the protest of his colleague,
as well as his own, should be inserted in the
minutes, and that he would immediately
proceed to the legi(l3tive body, inform it
of what had palled, and make at length
known to the uation those members of the
direftory who wished for peace.
1 his firm and intrepid conduft intimida
ted Barras and Rewbel; the resolution was
repealed, and the treaty of peace was signed.
PARIS, August 11.
There is a letter in circulation from Buona
parte, in which h« artfully praises the armies on
the Rhine, with the view, no doubt, of winning'
them to the interests of hirafelf and the dire&ory.
ThcCcnfcnr aflures us that the Sancy, a dia
mond which Louis XVI. used to wear in his hat
om days of great ceremony, after having pafled
through profane hands, has at last fallen in
to the hands of Louis XVIII. by the probity of a
Hamburg broker, who preferred refloring it to its
tru» owner —tent,in,lit.
Letters from the Hague mention, that she Texel
fle«t, very far from (lirriogout, is going to bedif
armtd. Apart of the troops have already been
difemharked.
Commeree is again beginning to raise her head
in the different departments. The fciirs of Gui
bray, St. Queftin, Liile, and Valenciennes, have
been advertised in the newfpapcru, and are to be
held as usual.
Pari, has been remarkablyquict to day, nor hive
the bills polled on the walls been so numerous or so
virulent as yesterday and the day before. The most
remarkable (and indeed the only ones) that I have
been able Jo difcem, were the procit verbal of the
10th of August by the army of the Sambre and
Meufe, and a placard, entitled Ptint f impojti di
reflet, " no direct taxes," being a sequel to one
publiihed two or three day# ago on the fame fuH
je&, adviling the people to be upon their guard
against the ettabliihment of any new tax upon fait,
tobacco, &c. as being the sure fore-runners of all
the evils which brought on the revolution.
Several ariftocratical papers seem to have been
acquainted beforehand, with the fnbftance of Thi
baudeau's report, as they have already retraced
their afpcrfi#nsagainft gen. Angereau.by publifh
iug the fubjeift of a conversation between that ge
neral and general Murioaia at the war minister's,
wherein Angereau declared his abhorrence at any
idea of butchering his fellow-citizens, the Parift ■
ans. *
A royalist writer in Paris fays, that all the pro
prietors of Sienv and pubi c entertainments com
p uin, that the Tuiiijb AmbaJfaJtr went to the Vim
rtflory'tjheiu firft.
PARIS, Aug. aj.
The placards begin to appear. This morn
ing three new ones were polled up with the
greatefl profufion. The firft entitled Card aux
Boutiques ; " Take care of your Ihops," allures
us that the Jacobins, Anarchilts, &c.are to plun
der the {hups »f Paris, and advifei the Ihop
keepers to be 011 their guard. The aim of the
second is to prove that the armies <wiiJ not match
agattflt their fellow-citizens and friend., the peo
ple of Paris that though they (honld, their ef
forts would be ineffectual. T,he thiid, entitled
Le Demicrate Ctrjtilbtionnel,i> the firft number
of a paper» to be continued, and pleads in favor
of maintjitiingthe constitution, which he aflures
the royalifis have formed the plan to deftioy.
The troops in the departments begin to ihew
the fame fptrit with the armies. A body of
troops quartered in the canton ef Sap, Depart
ment of the Orne, were going td draw up an
address in the fame sense with those presented
by the army of Italy, when they were dissuaded
from taking fueh a step by citizen Veillet, na
tional agent, who made them » speech on the oc*
cafion. and quelled their alarms.
The law for the organization of the national
guard has at length been pi.bliflied. It had been
fe'aled twenty-four hours ago, and that it had
not been sooner promulgated is the fault of the'
ministers.
The majority of the committee, frem which
Thihaudeau made his report, hid drawn up a
resolution, purporting that Paris, being within
the conflitutional circle, formed no part of the
territory comprised in the 1 ythMilitaryDivilion,
and consequently that the General Staff could
not relide there. But Thibaudeau, seconded by
Simeon and Emery, flrongly dppofed this, and
refufed to make his report, which was on that
account delayed a day ; Vaublanc, Jiowever, be
ing of his opinion, the resolution was dropped.
Malo, General of Brigade, who had been dis
missed from the command of the 11ft regiment
of the sift regiment of Dragoons, repaired to
the palace of the D : re<flory, where he gave vent
tothcVnoftferiouscharges agaiuftoneof themem
bers ot the DiretJlory, and to the most feditiots
threats against the majority of them. As this
is an offence enumerated in the Penal Code, he
will be brought to trial for it.
Official Journal.
General Kellerm.in has been calhiered by the
effeifl of a Decree of the Direilory, which sup
presses the ftaff of the army of the Alps. This
army is to be united with that of Buonaparte.—
This is said by the Jmi (Its Loi to hav: been
done thiough a motive of economy.
the cefiutijn of hostilities, between
th£Republicand Austria, ourtrnnpsdiftinguifb
ed themselves in a petty war againO the fmupr
!ers who arc employed to introdnce the Englith
merchanrlife. A letter from Antwerp fiates,
tl'a: fifty fix waggons, laden with cloth, muilin,
velvet, fiigir, tea and coffee, have been taken
nt-ar Tnurnboiit. The remainder of the con
vey, which confided in the whole of aoo wag
gons, retreated with precipitation to the Dutch
territory.
An aeroflatic experiment yeflerday attracted
the falhionable world, and ncarlv.all the world,
to the Gardeu de Riton. A Jaeohin phyficiaß,
named Garwiiii, to have raifetl himfelf by
a balloon, to rhe height of 400 toifts (2400 feet)
and afterwards 10 let himfelf (town by the aid
of a parachute. 'l'lie wags said that the Phyli
cian could not mount, the baromct-r of rhe ja
cubins being too low, and their gaz not ahle to
rail'c them to 'he height of " the mountain."
she event juftilieri the plealactry—ihe balloon
failed to rife, aw.d M. Gai nevin jumpc-d eafilv
from his boat, without the aid of 1 piraehute.
The mob afterwards deltroyed the
the doilor was arretted for the amciint of the
entrance money, (150,000 livres) which, after
the real expenses are dedurfled, is to be applied
to the relief of the poor.
. The Journal des Hommes Librts a(Ture« us,
that the famous Puifaye is certainly in Brittany,
and has lately been seen near Rennes in his d'efs
of a general ; that all theChouan and Vendean
officers have received orders to hold tliemfeives
in readiness, and that they themselves fay, that
they are soon to join their refpe<slive corps.
COUNCIL OF FIFE HUNDRED.
Sitting of August 23.
A citizen employed in the office of the
minister of jutlice, Merlin, complained of
his having been turned out of his employ
ment bccaufe he wote a black collar: Mer
lin told him that his dress wa3 that of a Ca
tholic Chouan. The council pafled to the
I order of the day.
Boifl'y D'Anglas rose on a motion of or
der. He declaimed against thofemercenary
writers whose sheets preached up the over
throw of the eonftitution. He said, they
resembled those animals whose existence is a
reproach to nature. Pamphlets are, how
ever, nothing in comparison with Placards,
which deserved the attention of the coun
cils, as they arc in the nature of a procla
mation, and tend to make a mob where the
citizens afftmble. No one but the constitu
ted authorities has the right to issue a Pro
clamation. According to a formal law, the
title of journals is all that is fuffered to be
crifd, and a Placard produces the fame effeft
as the contents of a journal proclaimed by a
news-carrier. The liberty of the pres3 per
mits Placards, but no dangerous ones ; I
therefore demand, that the Placards before
they are potted up fliould be submitted in
manuscript to the eonftituted authority.
Coupe demanded the order'of the day, be
cause therealready exilfed a committee char
ged to investigate this affair.
Dumolard supported the proportion of
Boifl'y, distinguishing acommonwriting from
a Placard ; the former of these relates only
to private persons ; the latter is a real pro
clamation. It addrefTes itfelf to men in an
aflembly, and is, in some fort, an orator in
a tribune. I require this proposition of Boif
fy to be referred to a committee charged to
inquire into the errors of the press.
Lebardy demanded the «rder on all tlie
propoCtions ; he cited the article of the
conflitution which requires that no one
should be prevented from publishing hit o
pinion. " This principle said he, "is the
fafe-guard of liberty."
• After a short difcuflion, the Council
ordered it to be sent to a committee, com
petent to inquire into the proportions of
Boiffy.
Gilbert Defmoliers, in the name of a com
mittee of finance, caused a projeft to be a- '
dopted, fixing the personal contribution for
the department of the Seiueto bi at 7,70 c,- 1
456 livres.
jourdan (General) in atnotion »f order,
denounced to the council, a letter, which
the commandant of the guard of the legifla
| tive body, Ramel, had caused to be printed.
The letter was as follows:
"I owe it to my place—l owe it to the
1 brave grenadiers whom I have the honour
to commaud, to explain to you my fenti
mentu, and their principles. Intrigue is on
every fide to make u» party-o*en, when we
have all sworn to defend, and to. die for the
conflitution of the 3d y»ar, and this is the
only barrier routed which we shall constant
ly rally. It is with grief that I fay it, citi
zens infpe&ors, and that I repose my solici
tude in your bosoms : the uneafinefc of some
deputies—the applications which they make
to grenadiers—the fears which they mani
feft refpc&ing their intentions, ean only pro
duce the word effed, arid lead to conse
quences which it is impossible to calculate.
Immoveabls as the laws which they defend,
the grenadiers and thsir chiifs wfll never
depart from their duty : the sentiments
which animate them ought to be a sure
warrant to you, that they will never sepa
rate their cause from that of true republi
cans."
Jourdan maintained, that this phrase fig
nified an apprehension that there were-men
in existence who wanted the conflitution o
verthrown. He demanded that it be sent
to the committee of infpe&ors, to examine
into the motives which gave rife to it.
Dumolard, in making an eulogium on the
intention of Jourdan, did' not interpret the
phrase in the fame manner, .he gave it a more
simple interpretation, and he acknowledged,
that to a certain degree RaWel 'was wrong,
but he must r,6t be accused without proof.
The council ordered the discourse of
Jourdan to be printed, and to be sent to a
committee of infpeftors.
A Wet Nurse wanted.
A Healthy Woman, with a young fcreaft of
milk, who can he well recommended, may
hear of a place by inquiring of .-the Printer.
_G£t. 23, ■ iff
Wanted, to Hire,
A I argc and convenient HOUSE, in or near
the tcntrQof the city-—far which a gewerous
rent will be given; to be taken far a year, of on
Icafij for a longer term. Inquire cf th« Printer.
OA. 17. ' cctf .
From the Desk of Beri Hesdin.
Hear ; for I will fpeai of excllmt things.
The man must be a fimpling, indeed,
who will not listen.
Is it not Wisdom, who crieth—and Un
derstanding that putteth forth her voice ?
Btri Hefdin tells you—(lie is this very mo
ment on the top of high places ; calling a
loud to the crazy politician, stupid state's
- man, weeping speculator, broken merchant,
ragged fpendthrift, and groaning debauchee
turn in hither; and I will pour oil and
wine into your wounds ; give you riches
more durable than time, and maidens wh«fe
pleasures increafc with pofleffion."
What a generous foul! And will ye not
turn in, ye wayfaring fools ; but still pu(h
on, heels over head, in pursuit of lands m
• the moon, and the fhad»w of phantoms?
Do glittering bubbles still deceive him that
travelleth at noon-day ? And are the great
men of the earth still disputing about non
entities and quiddities—while the rich feaft
j of so fair a maiden is past by and neglefted ?
| . Come in then, ye, who lack understand
ing ; whose brains are like a reed shaken "by
the wind, and your repast shall be as the
manna of heaven, which will ennoble hu
man nature, and reflore man to the likeness
of the Deity ; —your drink will be wine
drawn from the fountain of perfeftion, and
prefled from grapes plucked in the garden
of paradise ; which will so purify the foul
and elevate the heart, so meliorate the pas
sions and operate on the bodily eye, that the '
vale of life will appear a beautiful paflage
to the temple of God.
By the spirit of Insanity !—they have
all pafled by on the other fide, a. if some
infernal fiend was seeking to devour them •
except a few poor wretches without a ihirt
to their backs ; and a miserable gray-headed
Jew, who is limping to the grave with a
large pack of fms and spoilt wares on his
back.—By heavens ! the worfd is mad.
" Hand me my almanac, John ; for I am
positive the fun is vertical, or the tail of
some eurfed comet has turned men's
brains
While John is hunting for the Almanac,
we -will just inform those poor ftmtlefs
wretches, that Wisdom hath killed her
beads ; (lie hath mingled her wint; she
hath furnifhed her table, and made all
things ready to receive you. But before
you set down to this rich repast, it will be
well for you to copfider the following in#
ftruftions. Read them, observe them, and
praaife them—for these are her excellent
things.
Haft thou but two-pence in this world
carefully tie up one penny in the rag of
prudence, and make the other go as far as
you can. So /halt thou prosper in the
days of scarcity and ill-health. But if thou
lpendeft thy two-pence; what canst thou
do pa the morrow, should no man fay unto
thee—" get thee into ray vine-yard or
should that frightful rifitant, Disease, knock
at thy door; —remember, be that gathereth
m furomer is a wife son. Yet let not thy
gettings be increased by the distress of thy
neighbour ; for if thou do ft—may the
curses of eternal poverty crown thee with
madness.
Have thy garments waxed old, and do
the chill winds drive through thy fluttered
tenement ? Calculate how much is in thy
purse, aiid how much thou oweft. Pay
thy debts, then lay by something for to
morrow—and if thou haft wherewithal re
maining, fend for thy tailor and joiner*;
open to them thy wants, and let th-m',
with chalk and board, \um up the qiian
tum fufficit; make them give thee their
conditions on paper, and then—but not till
then, let the found of the hammer and
sheers be heard within thy walls. Let thy
careless neighbour call thee a close, stingy
fellow ; and the fpendthrift damn thee for
a miser let it be thy concern to hoe thy
corn and potatoes ; to gather in thy gain
at harvest, and thy fruits in the leafou there
of. Then wilt thou have wherewithal to
nourish thine own household, and feed the
wayfaring beggar. Thy fcoffers will be 1
glad, ere long, to eat the offals of thy ta
ble, andgathsr up what crumbs fall beneath
the feet of iailuft/y ; for idienefs wfli ma&e-'
pride crouch like a» J ass with heavy bur
then.
Art thou a lone man ? and thinkeft thou
that two are fetter than one?. Then let
thine eyes be attrafted by her, who throw
eth the (huttle ; who feeketh wool and flax
and worketh, willingly with her hands. For
she will be better unto thee than checks on
the bank ; or ships laden from the East.
Perhaps thou art fond of high life ; tak
eft pleasure in dress and equipage ; delighteft
in the rattling of china and decanters ; haft
an ear for deuce, ace, and the thrum of a
Lddle ? Then get thee jnto the highways
of the city ; contrail large debts with deal
ers in trinkets ; negleft the payment of thy
tailor's, butcher's, fervanl's and all other
bills—except gambling. Spend thy days
in drowsiness and idienefs ; thy evenings in
laughter, parade and nonsense—until Mon
sieur Catchpole leads thee gently by the
hand, to the damp cell of a prilon ; where
thou mayeft groan in the gall 0 f bondage,
and (lied two tears for every penny thou halt
faolifhly spent. Learn humility from four
bread and llale water ; industry from the
spiders that weave the canopy of thy draw ;
compaflion from the cool breeze, which
will at times steal between the iron gratings
of thy window ; and a love of order and
reftitude from thine own fu'fferings.
BERI HESDIN.
NO TICK. ~ •
THE Offices of of War are for
the prcfent removed near to th« Falls of the Scuyl
kill, on the Ridge Road.
vSpp»ejnber 4.
The Health-Office
IS removed to the City-Hall, and is kept open
night and day, where persons having btifintfs may
apply. W«t. ALLEN, Health-Officer.
Sept. 4..i>v this clay's AT ail.
LONDON, Augnft i 2.
Extfuticn of threr Mutineers of the Saturn.
Plymouth-Dock, Aug. 21. This morn
'ng at fix o'clock a gun was fired from the
f!:ig (hip, the Cambridge, in Hamaoze, and
t'le Saturn in the Sound, and the yellow
fl;l|Jihoift«d on board each of them ; two
boats from every ship in the Sound and har
bour, with a lieutenant of the navy, and
guard of marines, assembled along fide of
the Prudent about seven, when the follow
ing unhappy men were sent from her into
the adnnnii s launch, -viz. Geo, Perrv and
John Farrell, feamcn, and Thomas Kenyon
marine, and conveyed on board the Saturn,
where they remained in fervent prayer till
about 20 minutes before twelve o'clock,
•when the fatal' gun fired, and they w(tc
launched into eternity : they behaved with
great penitence and composure, and begged
to shake hands with capt. Doughs, which
he complied with in the most feeling manner.
The (hip's company of the Saturn were ve
ry much affefted at the awful ceremony ;
the bodies after having hung the usual time,
were taken down and conveyed in coffins to
the naval burying ground for interment
James Dixon, feamcn, and John Evans, cor
poral of marines, fentenccd to be hung in ;
chains, were not executed at the time, as it
is reported the sentence remains for the opin- j
ion of the twelve judges, whether the mar- |
tial law extends as far 33 hanging them in
chains. |
STATE PAPER.
The disputes between Austria and Pruflia t
upon the fubjeft of the seizure of the ci- c
ty of Nuremburgh not being yet finifhed, a
it may be gmtifying to know the opin- si
ion of his Britannic majesty, in his quali- t
ty of co-estate of the empire, upon the t
cause of this dispute. jj
Letter of his m.yefly the king of Grcat-Bri- n
tain, to his majtjly the Emperor.
" The letter which your majesty has
been pleased to write me,of the 7thSeptem
ber last year, relative to the occupation of ir
the Imperial city of Nuremburgh, the de- t.
pendencies of the fiilhopric of Eichftadt, u
and of the equestrian order in Franconia, I pi
consider as a precious monument of the fen- I.
timents ofjuftice and paternal solicitude, by
which your majesty has evinced hew much
you have at heart the preservation of the
ionftitution of the empire, and the exaft ob
servation of its capitulation 6f eleftion, a ni
circumstance that must contribute to your de
highest honor. I received this letter with a no
sentiment of refpedt equal to the grtrtifudc fta
whioh the gracious confidence of which your lat
majesty thus gave me a proof had inspired ; an
accordingly I felt myfelf called upon to be- de
flow my most serious attention upon the th
objeft there mentioned, and to weigh it tit
with the most lively interest. arc
"Your majesty is perfeftly acquainted the
with the sentiments which I entertain with of
regard to the support of the system of the thi
empire, and the confederation due to its int
laws, as well as the invariable difpofitioas anc
by which lam ltd constantly to contribute oui
to that objeft every exertion in my power.
I could not overlook the importance and ex- A.
tensive consequences of the eTent in quefti- div
on, and I caunot but applaud the dignified Bu
wisdom of the measures which your majesty Ab
has adopted. Your majesty has exprcfled a the
desire to know my opinion and my thoughts Th
upon this fubjedt, and requtfted my inter- pre
pWition with the king of Pruflia. lam reg
persuaded in faft, that the electors of the acc
Empire, now with his Prnflhn majesty, in len!
the present purfue the course ove
that is most proper, since full of confidence tert
in the sentiments and mode of thinking of 3 o !
this Prince, they- have good reason to con- arm
elude that his said majesty will leave justice . vrea
its free course, and will prefer to every thing ' offu
th,e maintenance of the lawful possessors in cf c
the enjoyments of their rights. lam con- i the
vinced therefore, that I comply with your I dive
Imperial Majesty's intentions in fending to reafi
his majesty the king of Pruflia the letter, a hap
copy of which Ido not hesitate to annex.—- 'lonp
Nothing can be mote agreeable to me than thei
to have it in my power to demonstrate upon repe
enery occasion to your imperial majesty the
etitire and sincere confidence which I repose C
in you, and thus to teftify the high regard io,
with which I constantly am, &c. hen«
(Signed) " George Rex." whi<
St. James's, Feb. 7, 1797. RY,
[The letter from his Britannie Majesty adju
to the King of Pruflia will be given to-mor- Rep
row.] lette
August 24.
By the Hamburgh mail, arrived this mor
ning, bringing accounts from Vienna, down Y
to tfie sth, it appears, that the rumors of pany
the Cgning of the definitive treaty of peace, of C
are, entirely void of foundution. The mar- INC
quis de Gallo's fecrttary had been sent to cers
Udino ; but the marquis himfelf was still at es, f
Vienna. er di
An article from Mentz.pf the nth,fays, excel
the Anftrian army was never upon a more T
refpeftable footing ; many regiments are a- Com
bove their complement, and several of the towa
battalions are arrived from the hereditary ef- ordei
tates. Ten thousand of the new levies in O
Hungiiry are also expefted, and the redoubts failui
lately conftrofted about Ulm, may be look- friga
ed upon as so many citadels. atter
The Paris papers which arrived yefter- the 1
day, contain no information on the fubjedt I this
of the negotiations at Lifle< and with re- pose
fpeft to those of Udino, nothing certain ap- ed b
pears to have yet transpired ; some of the week
papers assert, that the report of the con- T1
clufion of a definitive treaty of peace be- dicat
tween the emperor and the French direftory we li
i» premature ; while others fay, that the Sund
direftory have received intelligence of that off a
important event having taken place. of th'
The report refpedting the ctffion of Man- ed in
tna to the emjieror, is contradifted. The handl
vigorous military preparations now making, adjl'fl
both hy France and Austria, diminith the —Ol
hopes which were generally entertained of prosj
an approaching
various accounts' from Italy, that the pro
grefa of the negotiation on both fides is
intimately connected with the present tranf
aftions in tne interior of France.
urn. . The terms of the treaty concluded wjth
norn- Portugal have been ratified by the iegifiative
" ,e conncils. The committees appointed to
- aid examine this treaty are dated to have had
Pan interview with Talleyrand Perigord, the
two mmifter for foreign affairs, before they made
: their ''''Port, in the course of which they
m "l exprefTed their-furprife to him" at the peace
e oi with Portugal having preceded that with
now- Great Britain. The minister is said to have
in o answered, that it was in pursuance of the
an system adopted by the direftory to detach
"yon England from the other eoalefced powers-
Til tHat notwit ' l ft an ding the difficulties
r t'" which he had to surmount, he dTd not
doubt of being able to treat definitively
*««• with that power.
tvit.i We are still in the dark as to the articles
of this treaty with Portugal. Though it
was confirmed by the councils, it was in
ner - close assembly.
ve Letters received yesterday by a capital
n y ! house in the city, state, that a great part
me ' °/ the - Spa ni ill army, which occupied the
s 0 lines of St. Roche, and the encampment
at Algeziras, had marched for Cadiz, to
.or- protest that city and the arsenal from the
[ ln aflaults of the Englilh fleet.
:t Th e fame letters state, that the English
3111 7 .5* taken a new and advantageous po
>ar- fition at the offing of the harbour of Cadiz.
1 111 A packet from the admiralty has been
sent over lately, by a fl;(g of truci?, to the"
present administration for the affairs of the ,
United Provinces of Holland, announcing, ,
that if the Dutch privateers, who are in- /
deed little better than piratical marauders, c
ed, are not immediately recalled, the Dutch ,
fifhing boats, and other veflels concerned m c
1 the lefler channels of traflick between the
he two countries, will be immediately prohi- j
. b ! ted all the -ports of the British domi- /,
r '- nions.
t
118 NEW-YORK, Odtober 26. -
m- A company of artillery, under the corti- ')
of mand of lieutenant Marfchalck, failed yef
e- terday morning, for N. Brunfwick, on their '1
It, route to Pittfbargh, from whence it is ex-
I pedled they will descend the Ohio to Fort
n- MafTac. ■ 'j
BOSTON, Odtober 20. I
1 _ MIIITAHY EXHIBITION. 1 so
b- _lt is with pleasure we embrace opportu- I ° J
a nities of engaging the attention of our rea-I.
jr ders to the military spirit and aftivity, which I
a now, in a flattering manner, pervades our |
1c state. We wifli to preserve the fire of emu-1 Ca '
ir lation, which is lighted in many breasts ; I J'
; and afford those just tributes of praise to the J
"- dtferving, which, shall convince *them that I
le their merit is discerned, and the public gra-1
it tit\ide excited. Pacific as we are, soldiers I
are neceflary to us, in -the present state of J
d the world ; when alternately the ambition I
h of kings, and the repacity of demagogues, I
e threaten our Israel. Soldiers,. who, from J
s interest and principle, are resolved to obey I
s and protedl th« cotiftituted authorities of I
e our country.
At Lynn, on the nth inft. at 9 o'clock
- A. M. the fifth regiment, of ift brigade, 2d I -=
division, paraded, under the command of col. I
1 Burnham, and was reviewed by maj. gen. bee
r Abbot, accompanied by other officers of
i the divffion, and gentlemen of refpedtability. Fr(
s Ihe exercises were executed with veteran I '
- precision. The evolutions performed in a I
i regular and exaft manner. The arms and •
■ accoutrements were complete, and in excel- I j
1 lent order. After the forenoon duty was j
Frc
: over, the officers partook of an elegant en-1 '
: tertainment prepared for the occasion. At I Frc
: 3 o'clock, afternoon, the drum beat again to I
arms and a frefh variety of military manoen- I
: vres, which eftablifhcd the charafter of the I Fro
1 officers for military genius aud knowledge I
,ef discipline, were exhibited. About dark I I
| the soldiers were difmifled from the parade, I 5° i
diverted themselves of their military habit,! W.
reaflumed the civic garb, and retired to their I Lai
happy mansions ; which God fend they may I S.
'l°ng enjoy without th« necessity of using I Can
their mn(l<ets, or wielding their swords to [ 5 >
repel envious aflailants. I Jofi!
I Mar
Capt. Trott, from Liverpool, in long. I l 5 >
10, fell in with (hip Union, 25 days from I
hence bound for Amsterdam, on board of I C
which was the Hob. ELBRIDGE GER- J<
RY, one of the envoys extraordinary fori H
adjusting our differences with the French I Froi
Republic, from whom captain T. received I O
lftters for his family and friends. I C
7 - J<
MILITARY. v I R
Yesterday the Independent Cadet Com-1 Ci
pany paraded to commemorate the capture Fi
of Cornwallis's army by the brave WASH-1 F enr
ING'PON, in conjunftion with the offi- I Fi
cers of the King of France.—The exercif- ty> 1
es, firings and evolutions, were such as ev
er diftinguilhed this refpeftable corps—truly on « 1
excellent.
The ferviccs of the Qnincy Independent
Company have been patriotically tendered Tl
towards completing the 80000 Minute Men fobui
ordered by Congress. at no
On the 26th ult. when we announced the
failure of the fecoad effort to launch the A
frigate Conftitntioß. we stated, that further denoi
attempt to launch her was deferred to about ty be
the 19th of Oftober. The correftnefs of W
this information, we have reason to sup- celebi
pose will be soon verified. It is not doubt- gintii
ed but the frigate will be launched this fubje<
week. their
The following circumstance, strongly in- a wot
dicative of the delicacy of the age in which learnt
we live, took place in the Green Park on celeb
Sunday last. A sudden pufl of wind blew porta
off a lady's bonnet, but the fair one, aware I c i ne 1
of the impropriety of appearing bear head- Tl
ed in public, immediately removed the ofco]
handkerchief which covered her neck, and I
adjusted it to her head by way of turban, j W
—Old himfelf much pleased at the I Rcpr
proapedl. v (E»g- Paper.) los th
s - h 7. MELANCHOVY OCCIDENTS..
: pro- On the 7th irtjl. Capt. If trig who had prcvi-
L-s is ouflyfailed from Welflectfor Pin.obf
Irani- I a! Billings {Jptc Point, to tale on board lallafl
Unfortunately in his eargernefs, io complete the
w »th I business he overloaded the Mofcs boat, with
lative I which they were transporting the baliajl to the
d to I "Jcffel, and after getting a jhort cltjlanre from
had I the shore, fhefilled and funk, by which acci
, the I dent Cap!. King, Messrs Brown, Ward,
nade I Smith, and Son,,and a person belonging to Pen
thcy I obfcot were drowned. A woman pafftnper,
leaee I who■ was\wi'n;fs to the d'flreffitig fight was a
with I lone on board the vessel til./ the next dny_, when
have I the long cerdinuan.ce of lip veffil, exciting notice,
the I a boat came to her, and the Female was taken on '
tach Ifhore.
ltien I MILITARY EXF.RCt&E.
not I. . A M ' ! »<"-y correfpoiidcnt hat g&cftifs the fub
velv I ncw and «sm,:<jQrci, flecSflary i uur d
' I of command for the following corps, and outward
I [quads : viz
cles I Ktiflia, Sweden, & Denmark, " F.qfe arms* '
h it I Emperor of G?rmanv, " Hafcoch firelock.'"
sin I Kin g of Prussia. ' " Inwards face."
France, " Level well."
ital " r-«<* at the Frtctl."
I Venice, Genoa, &c. " Form four deep"
the BaUvis ' " "
'j Great-Britiin & Ireland, \" 0n \ he ri xht,form
cnl I, , > close column."
to I Ireland, «' Secure arms."
the I F,eet at 'he Nore, "As you wire."
I Loyaiifls, " Steady."
lifh I SirF - B - f ' & Mr.Surt, " Sbutpans."
' I Delegate*, « %uick march."
P°-I Democrats, " Halt, &c. &c."
I -=z^—
: f n PITTSBURG, OStoher 22.
, j It is reported, with a -view to injure my j
e I '"t'reft, that I refufed to make a publication in 1
'.£> I t^e itt fi ur Z Gazette for Mr. Lucas previous
,n " Ito our late eleHtiw. I think proper to fla,te the
r ®> j only conrerfaticn I had with Mr. Lucas on I
c h I the fuljel7, which I believe will convince every
,n I cand;d person that the charge is groundless. (
On Monday week preceeding theeleSion, Mr.
[' I Lucas called and informed me, that he wished
n '- Ito male a publication in Saturday's paper /
j r( Pj' the paper was greatly taken up
I with n fang Utter from Mr. Pie,leering, Secre- S
I t"ry cf State, to the Spanish minifler, and that S
Jhe mufl make his piece Jhort —I mentioned a half
column or theralouts for it. Mr. Lucas then I
x I I'/ 1 faying he would bring it on IVednefday 2
rt I corning at 10 e'clack, and Iprtmifed to give j P
I it a place.—From that time until IVednefday j F
I lafl, which is two weeks after, the time that he \fp
'I was to bring his piece, I never seen him, and I P
I how I could refufe his publication, lam at a Ith
I loss to know. I m ,
That, as an Elector of Allegheny county, IJ ati
I °PP b f'd Mr. Lucas's re-election to the assembly, I Jpt
lr I lrue —'hat I will oppose him, whenever any \fot
i candidate offers that I think better qnalifitd, is
I e l nal h "rtain—and although it is my earnejl I
' I " Ml fb, and has always been my fludy, to conduit I
t m J paper with impartiality, yet I glory in exer- \phi
cl f ,n g> independently, any right as an American
I citizen, that lam entitled to.
r JOHN SCULL.
oSober 20, 1797. I Shi
' Scl
PHIL A DEL PHIA,
. j FRIDAY EVENING, Octobfr i 7.
. I Th« following further donations have I (
, I been received by the Cotnmiflioners, viz. I cha
f I Dolls. I and
, From Jame» McHenry, Se-1 C
1 crttary at J 5° I c «i
[ I Jacob Beninghove 10 I [?. M
| I Robert Haydock (additional) 12 I
Benjamin Price 20
; From certain inhabitants of Ab-1 upo
ington, from Tho. Barnes, jr. J 11 7° has
I From certain inhabitants of the"} I 'oft;
I Borough cf Lancaster, by i 720 04 1
I Paul ZaHt2inger J I
I From a number of citizens now in Lancaf- j p re ",
ter, viz. • tht ,
1 hilip Wager 50 dollars ; Samuel Hayes man
I 50 ; Aaron Levy 50 ; Michael Keppelc 50 ; him
J VV. Barton 50 ; Hyman Marks 20 ; Geo. wfr '
I Lauman 20 ; Henry Miller 2C ; Benjamin |
IS. Barton 10 ; Aaron Joseph 5 ; John I a ""'
I Carrell 14 j.S. Gottfhalken 9 ; Isaac Roufh
J5 ; Elizabeth Helm 20 ; Mrs. Rhea 10 ; ed.
I Joliah H. Anthony 20 ; James Furze 5 ; I pot;
I Mark Kaennel jf ; ca(h 3, iocents r j do. I w ' ne
I 15 ; Chriltopher 'Marshall (additional) 20; J ™? n
Joseph Hutchins ic ; John Singer 20.
Cafli (by col. James Read) 20 '
I Jonathan B. Smith 30 I t hou
Tfrael Pleafaots 25 I givei
I From Manham townfllip, Lancaster co. I The
Owen Jones 20 j an d'
Caleb Carmalt 20 I cec '' n
Jonathan Carmalt 20 I
Richard Rundle ico I
Crook Stevenson 20 I day/
From Caspar Wiftar, fenr. by George j Franl
Pennock, 40 bushels of potatoes. her.
From Manham township, Lancaster coun-
ty, 12 barrels flour. I hpnni
By the hands of Joseph Bringhurft, jun.
one bundle of ne\y cloathes for women. I WII
Edward Garrigubs, Sec'ry. A
The number of burials in the city and vann;
suburbs for the 24 hours ending yesterday follo\
at noon, was 7 adults and 3 children. 'lof wl
I T1
A treatise on fevers, (particularly that j left i
denominated the Yellow Fever) has recent- ! Baroi
ly been publiflied in India. j si ce j]
We hear that it is a joint effort cf two J ceive<
celebrated physicians at Calcutta, who, be- ' nah,
ginning to write, by accident, on the fame j execu
fubjeft, at the fame time, agreed to unite the t
their efforts, —and thus conjointly produced j puvpc
a-work which report states to be a most j comr
learned and valuable performance. The to del
celebrated M,Lean, author of several im- tifical
portant rlifcoveries in ehemiftry and medi- That
cine i 3 one of the authors. efo's
The Ganges has brought out a number (hip.i
of copies. rived
. letter
William Edmond, Escii is cli,ofen pital
Representative in Congrfifs by th; Freemen 0 f hi
of the State of Corine&icut. leave
CITY HOSPITAL. ♦
irJvi- From zfith to 27th 061. in the morning.
sipped Discharged since laii; Report.
Mlafl Unity Dougherty admitted 29th ultimo.
•te the Alexander Murray ,or!i rl,.
with Henry Lc-flie sth 5 th inft!'
to the Died fincolaft Report.
J ror ? when admitted. how Im "'S ' 1! P rev '"
ticci- ous to admittance.
ard, Jnmcs Wood, 2cth in ft. 3 days.
Pen- Remaining last Report 2 -
nger, ' Admitted linCe, NONE.
as a- Discharged, 3
when Died, I
Remain inHofpital, jConvakfcent.!3 1
c" on r ' I Sick 10 J 3
One of whom is dangerous.
Interred in City Hospital bui'ying ground
since lait report :
Tub- From the city and suburbs, 2
wlrd From th « cit ? hospital, I
Total 7
» J
ELECTION.
j„ PROG* ESS AND TSIUiIIPH OF FEDEI(ALISM.
Richard Smith, is chosen Sena
tor for the counties of Bedford, Hunting
rorm on al] d Somerset.
Mr. Smith's eledtion completes the num
ber (fix) annually chosen, to serve for four
years. Five of this number are, moll un
questionably, Federalists.
POST OFFICE.
Philadelphia, 03, 27, 1797.
C - Letters for the Britifli Packet,
my for Falmouth, will be received at this
'■o'"s ° ffice until Tuefcla y> the 31ft inft. at
the 120 clock, noon. B. The inland t
on postage to New-York must be paid.
GAZETTE MARINE LI ST '
Ir. ,
bed PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
V P arrived. days.
re- Ship William Penn, Jofiah, . London 63
'at Sch. Triton, Hammond, Wilmington, (Del,J
j/f From the Log book of the William Penn. '
<n I Augufl 27, fpeke thefhip John, , cut
ay 12 7 days from Amjcrdam to PilaJelphia, "
ve Portland dif.ant 5 leagues. 30th put into
ay Falmouth; Sept. 2d. left that port—fame day A
he \fpoke the ship Cleopatra, Newel of and fir
,d Philadelphia, from London; parted company
a the sth; Oa. 17, spoke theflip Liberty, Ra
vage, out 12 weeks from Havre toPh'iladelphia,
I andfupplied her with provisions water; 22 d.
U \ spoke thefhip Mary, from the Cape de Verds,
1y I for Providence, R. I. >
is From Lloyd's Evening Pofl, Augujl 18. r _
ft ' Gravefend, Aug. 27.
9 Pafih the Star, Vanneman, from Philajel- fto
I phia, and Merchant, Bates, from Boflon. w;
n I thi
New Tori, Oltober 26.
ARRIVED. DAYS
I Ship Henry, Bunker, CapeNichola Mole 15
j Schr* Two Brothers, Livingfton, St. Croix 20
I BOSTON, OCT. 20.
ARRIVALS,
j Schooner Godfrey, Loveland, Halifax, 6 days T"
I Brothers, Marvin, do. do.
Brig Rangei, Ormerais, egal, 39 do
I Ship . >clight, Willfou, Liverpool* 61 do
Packet, Trott, do. 54 do. _.
I Capt. Wilf.m,foon after leaving St. George's
channel, was fallen in with by a French pirate
and plundered of all hi« cabin flores
Capt.Cormera's, failed iq days after the fchr. J\
Commerce, of this place. Off George's bank,
fau- a difniailen (hip (landing to the W.—Capt!
Richcame passenger in Cant. C, who went to
I Senegal, to procure indemnification for the cap
ture and cor.demnntion of a brig he had sent
I upon the coast of Africa ; and wear» informed ,
I has obtatned very liberal corhpenfation fgr his " n ,
I loss, from the French privateer owner. p, n '
J From Capt. Willi's Log licok. • ten
Augufl 18, 1797. In lat. 55,35, N. long. 14, & c
W. thefhip Delight, Wilson, was hoarded !>y a Jo
Fretjcii privateer of 18 gum and 110 men, 20 of ef~
I them raine nir board armed. Th» officer de- ■* 0
I mandeil fliip's papers They were examined by
I him and the crew. Then the Capt and pipers
I were taken an board ?nd examined by the Caot !
los the privateer, who said the papers were yery "\T
I fair, and delivered them back in a very polite \'\
manner. In the Captain's alifaiie, the hatches agre
I were opened, also trunks and lockers,and feareh- cons;
led. When they iwiderilood that they had not
I got a they began drinking and plundering
I wine, porter, fp!rir«, fowls, ducks, pigs, and
I many other cabin flores and carried aboard.
I When the Capt. returned he found the cabin o-
I full of the crew attempting to turn a lady pas- —~
I fengerand her daughter, out of their beds, (al-
I though the papers were returned,and permiflion
I given to proceed) who were obliged to comply. 'p
I The officer examined and found some valuables, -vr
I and (hewed them to the men,, but by his inter-
I ceding tbey fuffered him to return them. ,Then le
I thty quitted the (hip, and in a very difagreeabfe j
situation, being plundered of a great part of the j ers w
flores for the vo,yag'e. Th y informed tV.at two ;-p
day 4 before they spoke Capt. Hammond, ship ; ' OC
Franklin,but could not learn what they did with ! '"P I
her. Sept. ad, fppkc (hip Sally, of Wifoxffet, |
Joseph Holbrook, out 18 days from Liverpool, | rece P
bpnnd for City Poiut, (hip leaky. on
' A 1;
WILMINGTON, (N, C.J October 12. f
A gentleman who arrived intown on Sun- (
day last from. New-Providence, .via the Ha - (
vannah, has favored the Printer with the <
followiag information—on the authenticity 1
of which he places the greatest confidence.
That on the 20th of August, the day he \
left Penfaeola, he saw an officjal letter from 'J
Baron de Carondclet to a gentleman in of
fice there, acquainting him of his having re- f
ceived by the last courier.from the Havan- '
nah, orders'from his court, to put into full -
execution, the treaty between Spain andv . L
the United States of America ; for which
purpose he had forwarded dispatches to the year 3
commandnnts of the forts on the Mifiifippi, Mifflt
to deliver up the poita ;:tid evacuate the for
tifications with all convenient difpateh .• vemb<
That by tlie fame courier, governor Gay
efo's appointment to the Governor-general
ship in the Floridas and Louisiana, had ar- Ip,
rived ; and previous tp his closing that Ip
letter, governor Gayofo had reached the ca- i K
pital and was about to enter on the duties |!
of his olfice. ■ Baron de Carondflet was to t
leave New Orleans on the 16th of §eptem- T 0
Iftr on W
. ,! f " b »
I ''*' " Su "<lay"}aft arrived here, Mr. Wii'i.
I.ul! Packet, belonging to this port, which
„ ■ f? und^ d at fe. on the S:h Jit. b.tvveen
ance F?' * Fe s . m ' d Charleston. She was from
Ealmouth in England hound home ; on the
j 7 a •' u 2 , dcg > ce? froin tlle laild V"""
7 ,V eak> ,n » fcak of wind from N. E. and
u ne.u Jay went to pieces : two of the
4 confiiV* f 'ninaedJateJy ; the remainder,
. jog,of the c»ptain, firft mate, a fail
i23 : w r h a - n K f l° rtU ' Sncfli kd> S ot on a '"after, on
J wh.ch the captain lived but three day 3; the
ound 7r , S cut off by a (hark and expi-
DUnd f ° onaf,tr ; The two fiirvjvjnjr men, th«
2tl r? Mr " Svvanfo "' rei!la '"tJ in
2 this dreadful (Ituat.on five days, withont a
n} t ling to eat cr drink, when thev wefe
■—[picked up by a veto from Jamaica bound
-London, whrch a few days after met with
a Owp from London bound to Cl.arlefton,
111 procured a passage.
ing- ' 1 University of Pennfy!v t inia.
Um " JS? diar M nt f ChOO,S °^Univ 7 '-fiV will be
lr %th\n\T r ' the 6tb Nov "^- r ; of
un- Take no,t C °" Ce ™ cd ' « "V*<* -
By order of the Faculty.
WM. ROGERS. Secretf-y.
For London;
:et, THB SBIP
his J A N,
at ?* a!l,el M'Phcrfon, Master.
nrl blcnrtoM speed—a conlidera
nd blc P„rt of her cargo Uing already ea^o-cd.
' or tertns of "eight or Paflage, apply to
• fto/s Iff Sim/on.
■T «
ross simson; ~~
HAlft FOR SALE, *
A revr bales Baftas, Codas, and
vs. a Bengal COTTON
63 Bengal S OCA it, i„ bag, and boxe ,
\) Jamaica, ~s
St. Vincents, f RUM.
and Bengal \
/ ,
a y "—* <— y
<"> Now Landing,
ay At Sims| Wharf, from on board the (hip Commerce,
or captain Chamberlain, from Port au Prince
v 35 hogsheads of SUGAR '
a " do- MOLASSES
a, 4 tierces d o _
1. F °R SALE, FT
*' Philips, Cramond, £ff Co.
James & Richar^Smitl^
7 AK J the liberty of informing their friends
A- and the public, that they have removed tHeir
Jto No. 54, South FrontJlreet', next d«or to Ed
ward 10X 8 AuSion Room, where th<fy have'at
this time for fale.alarge and general assortment o'f
Europe an isf Eaji India Goods,
S Many of which are just imported in the Clothier
r William Penn, See. &c.
0 _ _ __ «_
Samuel Pleafants & Sons,
HNo. 74, South Stcondftrect,
AVE received a supply of Seasonable GOODS
( rcafonible'te.-ms 7 "° W
; Clocks and WatchesT^
s ° f eTer T description, opening for Sale, bv
EPHRAIM CLARK,
'f' bis Neto Shop, Corner of
■ MARKET and FRQN7 STREETS.
' ALSO—
An extendve and general assortment of
1 Tools, Files, and Materials.
CONSISTING OF
; Clock Movements and Clock Dials, e.ght day
; and thirty hours cast brass, forg.'d w..,i and Pin
' !?, n '' B ?' ls , and Hands ' Cat Gut, screw ; ,nd draw
i Ma t 1 urkey Stones, Pumice, limary and Rot
ten Stone, Spring, and Gkffe-, Chain, k=ys, Seals,
<xc &c. Spring and Handing Clocks.
- ° a - 17 ■ «t(_
To Gentlemen who intend /pending
the Winter in the City.
x
W ROOMS to LET,
lm or without Board—at No. n 4) corre'r
, of Sixth and Race Streets. The situation
agreeable—and vicinity has te.-n free from the late
Contagion. 05. z 7 .—dtf
St. Croix Sugar Iff Rum
For Sale by
JOHN NIXON W Co.
° & • ,(i - daw.
POST OFFICE
Philadelphia, OBober 26, 1707.
T. HE Poft-Ollice will be removed t»
No. 34, South Front Street; on Saturday
the 28th inft. at half pail 12 o'clock,, p. m.
- and on Monday, the 30th, the letter carri
j ers will begin to deliver as usual.
Footman b 5 Co's Auftion Room.
r T"'HE public ar.e refpe.^tfully informed, that the
J- (lore of the fubferibers is now open for the
reception of Goods, and the Sales will commence
on Monday next, thejotfi inft. when will be fold,
A large assortment ot Dry Goods.
AMONG WHICH ARE,
SupetSne and common Cloths
Cadimeres, Flanne's, Blankets
Coatings and Baizes
Cotton and worsted Hosiery
Chintzes and Calicoes
Chintz and purple Shawls
Book and jaconet Muslins
White and brown Lii ens,
Tickings, Checks and Stripes. /
ALSO
A quantity of Ladie-.' Moroccov'hoe*.
FOOTM .iN ts* Co. Auctioneers.
d
Philadelphia, 03.
ALL person, desirous to contrndi to farniih Ra
tions and Quarter Master's Stores, during the
year 1798, for the troops in Philadelphia, Fort
Mifflin, on Mud Island, Carlisle ana Reading, or
any of them, are desired to deliver their propofaly,
ur;der a sealed cover, oh or bflore the jcth No-'
vcmber next to
Tench Francis, Pu^or.
The Rations to conftft of
I pound Flour or Pread
1 pound Beef, or 3 4 of a poupi of Pork
{ ciil Rum, Brandy or Wh.fiiey
1 ib. Candles
1 lb. f
2 quarts Vinegar '( 0 every hundred rations
.T quart Sah ,) iWclßttNImported inthfjlfhip I Ma>jchss'i2r s j
Benjamih Shewsll, Mailer, i j ;i n
Frotn Bo«r.'«»u*,.a»d for tale by the fubfcriberj
N'ri. it Walnut M
Roaffeiux Brandy 1
Iriih market claret in cases f Entitled tl> -yy
Medpc u iirc, iu uo- I Drawback. t
Santerne, do. do. J 'lv
Thomas Murgatreyd.
\Vho has for sale. Thw'f
Sk-rry Wilis in pipes iv.id quarter cr.fcj flit"
' Ilct, do. " do. J«1
Pimento in bags j
4cpo buffrsls Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&atf. . :
To be fold-at Public Vendue,
To the higiutt bidder, at the of Mr.
William Evans, the irfcn ok the Indian
Qveert, in the city of Baltimore, on t*he 2.5 lit
dry of O<slober next, at II o'clock, A. I*l
About fdv-.'n tlioufand acres of land,
fbc property us William Bell, of Philadelphia, ,
h-'n between UeifterVtown and Westminster,
cotnminfy. called Little Windic3er, (the turn
pike road runs through a configurable part ot
the!": lands) '.he faft 4^egir>3 about 17 miles
tVoin '.lsHSrnovc, within a fsw hundred yafds
o? laid Ucilter's-tou'ii, and extends to the dif
taiice of About -twenty-three miles -from Balti
more, and lies on tne main tails of PaUnfico
' river, from thred to four miles thereon. Will
he fold in trails of one hundred and fifty :o
three hundred acre. There :s a large propor
tion of nieadmv and wood land on each tiact,
fom- of them ,highly improved, with excellent
buildings and fine gr.fs.
aiso ,
A trace of seven hundred acres of
land, called Clover Farms, within five miies of ry t
IJladentourt', ef.eemftd very poc-d for Grass, kna
Richard Ponfonby.of Bladeruburgh, will (hew bo*i
this land, to any person inclined to piircnafc. ® ow
also, latc
A tr.aft of land of about three hun-, B1 ° < ;
dred and thirty awes, within about two <pi' es ; Soul
ar(d a lialf o' the President's house in the l ede-| j,
ral City. It is nearly all wood lapd, tind a fine .
I,'gh projpefl, fron. which may be fernthe j
ifty of W?*jilington, Bladenlburgb, Altaaratu
ar.d' a part of George-town, and many muej
down the Potomac river. Mr. Kiefcard Por.lon
by, of Bladen (burg, willalfo shew this land. No .
A liberal credit will be given for the greatest -£-j
part of thf puri hsfe money, jhe tertni will i J
he ttiade kiiowu on the day O) sale. ti«n
May 8 w 3™. »PP
just Received,
f'i om Batavia (via Providence) con
a few koirsof Spices, confiftiug of , ,edii
Nutmegs, Clivcs and Mace lo«
I''cr sale 1 y P u ;
It'ILLINGSd FRANCIS, >
l'enri street. Pes
.» dtf in 1
p rr
Davis''s L>ow Book Store, the
No. 3J 9, High-Strat. pai
GEORGE DAV IS,
BEING busied for fonv time past in prcpara- 1 .
t.ons for removing into his prsfent house, has
been undei theriecelCtyof poftpoflingnntil this day
idforinmg ttifc geutlemeh of the Bar generally thro
the United States, that his spring importation of
law bocks is now arranged and ready for tale, 011
terms that he trulU will entitle him to the lite pre- _
freencc he has experienced for Jeveral jeers past.
Catalogues, combining the mbft wr.ed colke
tit>n ever imported into this country, are printed
and Will be delivered 011 application.
June ij. 1 «»*
hCity CommiJJioners Office,
June it, 1797- j°
IN pursuance of an ordinance from the fe!t<3
and common ettuhcile, pafled the nd day of 1
Mav lall, appointing the city c«Tiimflioners,
and orefcribil g their duties, feaion 9th,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, T
That the city is divided into five diiiriAs,
each to be uiidcr tbe fupcrint?ndance of one of h .
the citv compiiflioners, u hois to be individually si ,
relppnfiHle for the cleanlinels of the fame, and tl
are as follow. it
Driftrifl No. t. From the fwth fide of Ce- „
dar-flreet, to the north fide ofSpruce-ftreet, im
" rthe fuperjatendence of Nathan Boys,
i. From the north fide of Spruce-ftrect, to
the north Me ef Walnut-fired, under tbe super
intendence of Hugh Uoberts. 4
v From Ui« north fide of Wjlnut to thefouth
fide of H'gli-ftreet, under the fuperiutendence ot -
Joseph Claypoyle. ,
4 From the north fide of HigU-fireet, to the
north fid,- of Mulberry iireet, under the fuper
intendenceof William Moulder.
From thp north fide of MulUerry-ftreet to
the north fide of Vine-flreet, under the super
intendence of Nicholas Hicks*
The cleaningof High-street to be in com«on.
<-y A fiated meeting of the city commiflion
«rs is heUt at the Old Court House, in High- -
street, every Tuesday evening at 5 o'clock
_ fnlv ( i- * t " m - 1
'Standi for Draymen, &V. ;
In purfuante of up Ordinance from the SelfH and ,
Common Counc Is,hearing date the ltd day of
Jbril, 1797- providing for tbe appointment oj
City Co nmj/fioner.i, <3c. Heel, the 'sth.
r I"'HE following places are fixed upon by the
jL faiJ City Commissioners for Stands for
Draymen and their Horfet.
In Vine-flreet, eallwsrd of Front-iireet, on
bC Sairatras, High,Chefmit and Walnut-fttreets,
eastward ot Front-flrect, on the no.'th fide only.
'Mulberry-street, south fide from Front to
1 Front-ftreat, east fids from Vine-street to
Front-street, from opposite to Black Horse al
ley to Hamilton's store*, east fide.
Water-flreet, weft fide from the north end of
Stamper's or Moorr's stores to Pine-street.
Penn-ftreet from Pine to Cedar-ftieet, weft
Drawbridge, north fide, east of Front-street.
Spruce, Pine ? nd South fireets, east of Front
ftreelt south l'clc. _ , ,
Dock-street, between \\ alnut-ftrcet am. the
flag stone crossings, east fide, opposite George
' °'sccond4|lfceet, between SalTifras and Vine
streets. weft Tide.
Fifth-ftreet, east fide from Cnefnut to Mu*-
from Third to Fourth-street,
No'dray or horse to fland within ten feet of
™l¥sDS KMI HACKNEY COACHES
Piue-Uiett, north lids from Fourth to Fifth
flf between Clufnut and Walnut
ftr ßrancrftr'eet, north fide, between Third and
fourth ftretts. Bjw&fxm
July 14-
A Literary Treat. Pr
JuJl pull'Jhcil, hamtfomsly prhiteeton writing
paper, price I chllcr, ( a-
A new edition of ttiat popular <t .l entertamin
work, entitle J.
-r-'HE FORESTERS, 411 AniericaftTale ; being
iL a sequel to the hiiiory of John Oull, me Clo'
thicr —In afeiiesof letters 10 a frier. I, with t. ead- T un
liition of t«o letter ■, alluding toreccilt political ___
tranfadliotis in America.
Tibt'foUnwiii;; extract froir-. the Chvis AlW'^orica,
(hevvs the principal characters thatare uccd.
John BvilJ, the King Join of r.nglapj
Hi>'Mother, the Cturch of England I
His Wife, the Varliamei.t Irn;
His Sifter Peg, the Church of Scotland t }, e (
His Brother Patrick. Ireland ltrcet
Lewis, the K'ngdom of France
HisMiftrefs, the Old Constitution
His new Wife, the Nation.ii Representation |ur
Lord Strut, the Kingdom of Spain inlt
Micholas Erng, tli: Dutch RepuMic
The Franks, the French Republic
The F&reflcrs, the United States of Amerii r.'
Robert Lumber, New-Hampthiie
,/ John Codline, Mafiachufetts Comp
Humphrey Plowshare, Connecticut Seven
. Roger Carrier, Rhode Illand ' cc j v ,
Peter Bull Frog, N#'.v-York frqm
Julius Cffifar, New-Jersey Sen
Wd'iam Broadbrim, Pennsylvania
Cafiimar, Delaware
Walter Pipewood, Virginia
His Grandson, George Vv'afhingtsn TNF
Peter Pitch, Nwrth Carolina A ha
Charles Indigo, Soutk Carolina Wilic
George Truity, Georgia the ci
Ethan Greenwood, Vermont plied,
Hunter Longknife, Kentucky By
Black Cattle, Negro Slaves ceive.
Rats, Speculators to th<
Msther Carey's Chickens, Jacobins by ot
0" This pojiulJr and entertaining satirical hifto- Sh.
ry of Ammioa is' attributed to the Rev. Dr- Bel- the ci
KNAP. It hasagr«at shire of originality and a- move
bounds with genuine humour. It is continued
down to the preiant time, and uiofe gular
late political tranfackions whiek hav« caused so Sc;
much uaeafmefs in America. "TO
j Sold by H. and P. RICE, Bookseller, No. 16, x
South Second Stieet, aiid Uo. 50, ft*et. A
June »6. § l nd '
J been
LAW BOOKS, nc f v
Latest London and Dublin Editions.
11. P. RICE, Bookfeller s, _a
No. lb. Scruth Seeond, and No. 50, Market street,
1 V X AVE just received by the arrivals from
I iTI London and DubKn, tkeir fprißg importa
tion, confcftingef a variety of the lauft and most
approved 1 .aw Books, whkVi. added to those alrea- CI
dy on hand, forms the mpilcxLenfiv« cOlleAionev
cr offered for fa!c in thk coubtry. Thejy thei ifore Hoi
beg ldaveto notice, that from the nature of on )
cpnnetdicnsin DiH>lin, they arc enabled to felllrifli feet
~edition# (as th«y have Tiitkcrto at the very preJ
'loVfreft prices. The following art among the latest nun
publications.
Vefey, jttn'rs Reports in Chancery, 2 v..s.
Peake's Cases at Nisi Prius ; Ridgeway*®
in the time ps Lufd Hardwicka ; Floyer's Probers
Pra<Sice ia the £cc4e(iaftical Courts ; Bartou s J
Trcitife on a Stiit in Equity ; Tiiu* FraKice of are
the Court of King's Bench in Personal A<stions, ?, ty
part2 complete ; Ward's Latr rfatkms ; Cruise wai
on Us« ; Aodarn Reports, I* vols. London cdi- sou
tion.
H. and P. Rict «p«<ft f receive by the Urft ar- on
rival frorh
\ Durnford and EalVs Reports, the impart of Gil
bert's Law of Evidence by Lofl, ani a number ot p rc
uew publications. f«r
June 26. pri
The History of Pennsylvania, —;
: d By KOBERT VROUD,
IS now in the prefi, and will be publiibed,
with all convenient expedition, by ZiCMA- t
- riah Pouljiu, jun. Ko. 80, Chefnut-Hreet,
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue
to be received, ami at the Philadelphia Library, J
according to tbe printed propcfals) until the in
work is ready for the fubferibers.
»,! J u, y _'ii " wtf ft a
The Partnerfliip,
UNDER the firm of FREEMAN W Company,
is difTolved by mutual consent. All person} n<
having any demands sgainft thefaid House arc de
'T fired to render the fame to T. B. Freeman ; and'
thofe indebted to the House are desired to make pay- (h
ment to him—By whom business will in future be w
:e " airried on,at his Store, No. j9,South Front-street.
«i- Augvfi 7- - ' eod4w
to Richard and. James Potter
:r- HAVF. removed their Counting House to Ne.
45, South Fifth-ftrcet.
ith a nguft e. vitkMt
Lancaster, Harrijburgh Cariijh,
;lie Shippenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
tr- '~» _, HE public are requested to take notice, that {
JL the partnership which tws f«r some «m« fub
on filUd betweoa Mathias Slough of Lanoafter, and
William Geer, is now diffoived: hut, not as M.
Slough infinuatesto the public without just cause ;
s * as will more fully appear by a letter 011 the fub
j,<a from M. Slough <° w - c "-- r . dated the 19th
December last. a recital of which is not now deem
ed necefTary. Auy gentleman who wilhes to be
more circuaiftantially infsrmed of the merits of
and this business, by applying to W. Geer may have
rof ch . peru s a l ,f M. Slough's letter, and then can be
*°f at full liberty to determine whetlier or not W.
Geer is not perfedly juftifiabie in atuching him
tbe f e lf to any other peifon in the prosecution of the
for Stage conveyance fror* Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or afty other place.
,on Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
public were pleased to confer on the firft effort in
•ets, this business, VTilliam Geer, in conjunction wit.i
inly. Messrs. Reily, Weed arid Witmer, is determined
it to " prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention and dispatch that a zeal to oblige the puo
t t0 liccanpoffibly exert.
The above, contpany, who are amply provided
f, ,1 with carriages, horse*, and every appurtenance to
render the padage fafe and eommddious, inform
, f those wno wifb to patronize and encourage the
undertaking," that they can take their feats at
„ George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
W Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg,
et - Carlisle and Shippenfburg. The fare as hitherto
.'roßt eftabiiflred. ...
For the further accomm«dat:on ot the public,
! th ' will start every Wednesday from the house
e° r ge of Samuel Jilder, ia Harrifburg, arrive «t Sun
bur- in Northumberland county, every Thurlthy,
Vine ani j' return from thccce and arrive at Harrifburg
evevy Saturday, so that passengers deftmed for
Mul- Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed on Mon-
Ireet, WILLIAM GEER.
" Larcafter, Jan. 37, 1797- f
et of N B This Line ef Stages Darts trom the
house of William Ferree, in Laneafttr, on every
S.V. Tuesday and Saturda^ morning at 6 o'clock, pro-
Fifth ceeding to the westward; and Irom the house ot
«r. Samuel Eldci in Harrifburg every Wednef
alnut day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
rrick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns
d and from thence on every Tharfday : per!...mmg. the
fame routine daily as in its wur lrcm i.nJadel
, . J»Wt
im P* ll3,
Will be Landed, f
From onboard the ftip &i»e, Capt.UiAie.ffSm And to
Ha^'.ntgll
- baU? whitc.P-J'-fl' x cl«auKciup
2 cafics Clorer Seed ■
For Sale by
Herman Letter, « The
Mcrtli Iftf'Ji ...• [ -t, No. 4■
Tune .16, In wh
Young iiyion Sea. hit /[
40 cherts of a superior quality— -Mib,
100 do.of Hvi'in, „
Imported in the R'xdrop Sims, and for lale of tne
the fubferiber, corner of Second and Pine unitec
ilreet. - P eflon
C. Hafaht.
relpon
Jun-*jt. 1 eot ' M^nrt
Iniuratice Company of the State
of Pennsylvania. miiton
'"pHE Office will be kept until farther notice at that t!
L the School House in Germantown. lbc a \ '
Company still retain the room in Chefnut, above 0
I Seventh ft feet, where a person will attend to re
ccive and give answers to applications, «very day W1 1
frpm 10 until I o'clock. cas.i.
Sept. n. _±:
Thomas Arraat and Son,
OF PHILADELPHIA,
INFORM their cuftcmers asd the public, they
have removed a part of their nrerchindize to
Wilicington : Also, ihey h .ve their llore open in ty feci
the city.° At X ifber place their friends can be sup- States
plied, and their orders cartfully attended to trifl,
By the Cumberland, from Mull, they have re- the ri
ceived a handsome afiVrtment of articles, suitable words
to the approaching feafoji; and cjpeJl to add to it " C
by other tall (hips. " * n ■
Should the sickness prevail in the central part of " ed
the city, that branch of their bufintfs will be re- " of I
tuoved to Germastown. " Sec
JV The communication by post is open and * Wi
gular as nfual. '
Scjit. 18. tbtf Ueite
TO BE SOLD VERT CHEAT!
A Light W A CGON almost hew, with a frame— etors
and a pair of harness (Knglife collars) has never t' lone(
been used—price 90 Dolls.
A Horse I(» hands high, seven years old—and a
new chair, with a falling top and harness 310. ,>
Enquire No. 331, Market-dreet _A
Auguftl-j. dlw I h<
, For i'ale or to be let on ground
rent,
. Lot of Ground ; i- ~
SITUATE on the north-eift corner of TVal- c» r n
nut and Fifth Hreets, fronting the State- f"« n
: Heufe fqjare. This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walunt street, and one hundred and thirteen PP'
1 feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at
' present two i'mall two story brick houles, and a N
' number of small tenements thereon. en
Also, for Sale, j
; Two three iftory Brick Houses
, With conveuient-ftores, wharf, &c. situate on
s Water-!lreet, between Mulberry and I*""" 9 LO
f flreets, containing in front on Water ltreet wt
•, tv-four feet, and continuing that breadth call- rj
e ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the JL
- south thirteen feet fix inches. These houlea SAJ
ave the conveniance ot a public alley adjoining t ; ot
- on the nortb fide, am} are a very delirable fitua- con
'f tion for a merchant, flour faflor.or others who s ou
• maj'hiVeoccalion for storage of goods. This <j ra
'f property will be fold on very reafonaHe tarrns C
for ca(h. For further information apply to the ing
- P; 'ruTy' 3 i, m&wtf i
T~D O L D,
1 And pojfefiion given immediately,
, ' \ LARGE two story brick House,- tondfomely g;j
fituatedin Princeton. There are four rooms vtr
' and a large entry on each floor, and five roon's in j
'' the garret, a range of back building* .fl feet in
length, and a piazza of 57 feet. Thcreisapump J
in the yard, an excellcut kitchen garden, at the
farther end of which are a carriage house and two
_ Sables, one of which is new, 44 feet long, with
stalls in the two ttables for 17 hories. Ihe heal
tliiscfs and pleasantness ot its situation. and th«
I number of genteel and agreeable families in and
near the town, reader it a desirable retreeat for a A
le :, gentleman from the city. Thecommodioufnefs of j
I the house, its central position, and the largenfis of
l~ the (tables,make it every way fuitableforatavern,for
j which it has always been confiderd as a capita
| (land. Inquire on the premises, of
ISAAC SNOWDEN.
Princeton, Ang. IJ. *9— diwiwrt Si
J Gity ot Wailiington.
k, I SCHEME,
' Of the Lottery, No. 11, ]
I For the Improvement of the Fedetnl City.
Amaguificentdpellkig-houre 10,000 dollars, I
hat St. cilh 30,000, are J«.ooo c
ub- 1 ditto 15,000 St taft iJ»oa» 4<),00i« _
and 1 t dttto ijjooo fc cash 15,000 30,000
M. I | ditto I9»ooQ flc to,ooo io»ooo
ifc; ] , ditto t ,ooo fccadi 5,000 10,000
tub- , ditto V.OOO & caih 5,000 «0,000
■9th 1 ci (h priie of ro.ooo ,
em " I 1 do. 5,000 each,ire • io,doo
sbe J i» *>. 1.000 - - '
' of ITD do. 5™ - -
,a r 00 do. 100 - • -
SOBtfe. 50 - ". <>oo
Z:\ 400 do. 15 • • io ' oo °
,h e J Ijooo do. Jo - 10)000
, c „r! i Jy ooodo. .0 - 'i«.ooo
the I 16,739 Prices.
t in j 33,161 Blanhi.
witil I 1 11
nued 50,000 Tickets, at Eight &ofUr»,
, at- 1 ■ ~
pub- N. D. To favour those who may take a quan
j tity ot Tickets,the prizu of 40,000 dollars will be
rided J the l ast drawn licket, and the 30,0 c« the last
ce to j bi>t oni : . .. .
form And approrednntcs, fecuniog payment in either
: the 1 monsy or prists, in ten days alter it
ts at j be rcciired for any number not Vets than 30 CicU
torfe, I ets. , . r
mdpy This Lottery will afford a» elegant specimen ol
burg, the private buildings to beertSed in the City ol
herto Wathington—Two beautiful defies are already j
(ekaedVor the entire (rants on two of thepubltt 1
üblic, squares e fron thefa drawisgsit ispropofed toerera
house two cerureand c our corner buildings as foou as pol-
Sun- ffhle after ttlis lottery is fold, and to convey them,
rlday, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
ftiurg the manner described in the scheme for tne Mote
d for Lottery. A nett deduction of five per cent, w.ll
Mon- be made to defray the eeeefTary eipenfes of print
in", &c. and the furpius will be may: a part ol
R. the fund intended for the National University, to
be creeled within the city of "W»(hington.
n thc The real fecurit.esgiven for the paymatit of the
every Briies, are held by the President and two D.red
pro- ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
£i —•"^SSfSSSSfe.
at Pa- ,§, Tiekets may be had ut the Bank ot Cohm
cturns N.a ; of james Weft & Co Baltimore ; of Jretc
ir- the pitaau, Eofton •• of John Hapkms, ,vichraond .
ladel- «Cnd cf Packard Cooper » Ferry.
r m wx
ovi)
Tuis my Publifiled,
And to be fold by WILI.IAM YOUNG, «omer of
Second C&»Fnut streets,
Price Z-Ms of a Dollar, , ExJ»l\tl
Observations on certain Documents A(m „ t!
Contained i& No. V and VI of A |- CV / r
" The History of the United States for
the year 179^» >> An invi
In which the charge of speculation a gain ft th
ALEXANDER HAMILTON, A few
Late Secretary of the Trkasury, is FULL\ T u ty
REFUTED- - f
written nr. ni m self.
This publication present* a ccncifc IVatement A
cf the base means pra&iTed by the Jacobins of the
United States to zfperfe the chfcraAcrs of thole Tndi
peffons who arc cor.fid(frf as lioftita to *nt*ir d<for» Soot
gauizing fchcofjes. •It also cQnCflins the cor- E tff
between Mr. Hamilton and Messrs. Ban
Monroe, MuLLenburgft and Venab!c» oh the sub- ■ BUh
jest of thedocuments alorcfaici, and £ itpifcs c-£ let- An
ters from. James Reynold" and his wile to Mr. Ha
milton, proving beyond the poißbility of a doubt, Ab
that the between him and Reynolds, Silk
was the rduLt of a daring eonfpiraay on the part Tw
of the latter and his aflbciates to extort money.
A discount of aac third frojn the retail price EUi
will be made in favor ok whplcfale purchasers, for Eufl
cash. Orders to bcadUrtiTed to-iVlr. YoefNG. , Jav:
Awrufl 2s. Ac
~' No. 188. ~ Roi
DiJlriS of Pennfyhania, to wit :
OE i f REMEMBERED, that on the .
( l.' s.) twenty flxth day'of July, in the twen-
ty second year of the independeuc<s of the United
States of .America, Joan Fcnno, of the said dii
tri&,hath deposited in this office the title of a bock,
the right whereof he claims as proprietor, in the ]
word* following, to wit :
« Observations on certain documents contained t T^V
« in No. V. s»tid VI. of "The History of the Unit- X\j «
" cd States for the year 1796," in which ths charge attent
" of speculation, against Alexander Hamilton, late C nqui
(t Secretary of the Treasury, is fully refutfcd— f cw j
* Written by himfeif " not \
In conformity to the a& of thcGorgrcfs of the %vr on
United States, entituled, "An ait for theencour- t hat 1
agement of learning, by ft curing the copies of 0 f
maps, charts and books to the autkor* and propri- ]y ra ,
etorsef such copies, during li® time 6 thereia mea- acids
tioned." certa
SAMUEL CALbWELL, T<
Clerk ./ tbi DifriS of invet
Jifly it?. hove
the Inhabitants of the Di(tri£t
11 lane,
ef Soothwafk,
ARE informed that a Coachue is provided, to be A
/j. kept at die Coiiftablch' office, die north east
■ csrner of Fron* and Almond ftrects, where the qq
. friends of those sick pcrfans who'defire to be re
t moved *o the City Hofsital, arc requeftcd to make
1 application—Also, a Hearse wiUiakcpt in read!- J«it
, ness for the removal of the dead.
JONATHAN PENROSE.
1 N.B, The Poor, who wife to remove to the .
Tents on Schuylkill, may be furni&ed with orders
by applying as above. t j^
William Blackburn, ™
'? LOTTERY and BROKER'S 9FFIC& Ho.
No. 64 south Seeond-Rreet. '
'* npiCKJSTS in the Canal Lottery, No. 11, which 61,
18 i comnnnced drawing the -ajth May, FOR. ftre
■s SALE. The price of tickets will rife in propor
-8 tion lis the ({rawing advances, particularly on ae- fei
l- count of the Ave firft drawn tickets, prize. <H im
"> four thousand dollars each, on the taft o»y ot dci
is drawing .„ luf
is Check Books kept for examination and regilter-
,c ing, in the Canal, Mo. a, City of Waihington, No.
2, and Paterfon Lottaiies.
Also, tickets forfalc in the SchuylktUbridge and .
- Perklomtn 1 Bridge lotteries, which will begin -p
drawing in the course «f the farunU'r.
The buiinefs of a Broker in all kinds of SSoc.;,
ly Bills,. Notes, Lands, See- &c. tranfa'Aed wrtth the rc£
ns utmost attention. ha
in June, an,
np Erfkine's View of the War.
he '■ ■ cU
JUST PUBLISHED, ha
, By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co. dn
® No 46 South Second ftteet, ha
fPricc 51 Cents]'
r a A Vic-w of the Causes and Confequen- jj
°f ces of the present War ivith France, tt
' f „ ' By the Honorable Thomas Erskine.
itH May 1J ? w
STATE TRIALS,
f Sold b W.Yoong, Bookseller, No. s»,Soutii Be
— cond-Ureet,
The Pennsylvania State Trials, J
CONtaining the impeachment, trial, and acqvtit- j
al cfyraneisHopkinfon, Jodgeof the Court ol v
' admiralty, and John Nicholfofl, Comptfro.ler CJcn
era!— In one large % vo. vol. Price, in boards, J f
ty. W. Young has for sale, a general alTurtment |)F |
lars, Books. • Also, Stationary, retail and by the paek- (
,000 egc, well aflortedT and entitled to (he *
nxpwrted. . {itly T— .
,000 For Sale, <
',OOO That well known place, called VandSOriii s 1
*OOO ' *•* Y '
'[>oo /~\N N-efeaminy creak, i 3 nnles from PbiU- _
'coo v-' ladelphia, 011 the New York polt road,
'c containing 74 «cres and 94 perclfes. Upon the
loon premises are a Urge two llory ftene houie occu
>ooo pied asatvern, and a gpod one story Itone kit
i'ooo chen, a large liable with d gcod threfhinp
>,ooc floor, and iome out buildin v~ a , wc '
, 000 good water, and an excellent ice House. On
,'OOO this place is a most-elegant fltuaion fora gentle
man's feat, commanding a vitw ot the Nelnarn
iny to its junftion wiih the Dtlawa<iK> and thence
ac'ofs to the jeriey feorc. h has.the privilege
of on e half the toll received from the bridge.
n noo For terms apply to the S;iMcriber,
o,oo ° mo&decai lewis.
auan- Vay -
In be cISLITM6IA HOUSE
LAST Boarding School for young Ladies,
iither -« it US. GItOOMBRIDGE *ithm«ch pleal
wiH jyl ureand refpea, returns her sincere ac
rid- knowledirement for the liberal
(he has received during four years refiden»e ib
nenol Philadelphia; and altures her trreuds ami the
r*l of. public, Vo far from intending to decline her
'ready s chool) (he has made a fupcrior tor
piiblir [ | ie morc convenient r.cconwnn-datiei! ot her
uere f scholars. —Every branch of and polite
as , pof ' educationi»particularly, attended to by Mrs
them - Gwoombi idge and magi's excelling m their
MTPr s r : "'* aM *t&
J The Cw'ation'is perfe/lW healtky ; and made
f" t0 more agreeable by an extenlivfi garden and lot
' of ground adjoining'he home.
° f 7ufi PubUfbsd,
lZ u And to be h,d of Meffr, Dobfon, Camphell
, Cary, and the other pricipal BcokfcUecs in the
r. city.price one dolla-Mvv.nty-fivecenU.iaboards,
2ol*m- New Views of the Origin of the
f Pete* Xribes and Nations of America.
n ' By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, m. d.
mwi June so.
R«fs & Sitnfo.it
HAV£ FOU SALE
C Hogflicads, *
Excellent CofFec in yTierces, and «
C Barrels.
A fm2ll parcel of nice cocoa in bags
* few puv'chcors Jamaica spirits, fourth proof
Superior TenerifTee wine, old ami in Madeira pipc9
An invoice of jewellery and hofi :ry to be fold by
the pscl.agc
A few hampers o{ heft cheefe.
July 11. _
~~~The Subscriber has for sal& %
A large assortment of India
coarse and fine
Tndia Calicof3
Sooty Romalls. ,
B'ae Cloths ind Checks
Bandanna Handkerchiefs
Blue red *nd Oilli Handkerchiefs
An invoice of Irish Linens and Sheetings, well
assorted
A box of biapers
Kills Umbrellas
Two boxes ef fine Spices, couioiag NBtmejs>
Mac® a»J Cloves
Black Pepper of firft quality
East India Ginger
Java Sugar
A quantity of Madeira Wine
Ditto of Gin
Roll Brimstone
Mordecai Lewis.
AtlVii/I 12. ffiwltw
Higgins' Specific
, FOR." TBI
PREVENTION AND CURE OF THE
YELLOW FEVER.
| T? VER since this disease mads such ravages ia tbit
city the author has turned his
attention to itscaufes *sd cure.—The relult of hit
enquiries has convinced him that tH'e reason why so
few persons recover from its attacks, axe frem its
not b«ng well understood, and the confeqnent
: wrong method taken to cure it. He is persuaded
■ ; that the excessive hleedigrs and mercuric! reatmeat
' of the Faculty i« highly injurious, and that the on
•J ly rational mode of treatment i* by the use of £ro^>er
■ acids. Convinced of this he offers his- SftMt** *.,
certain remedy, if used according to the dtfeAions.
To he had in bottles, at one dollar each, of the
inventor Get. Higgins, Cherry street, two doors a"*
hove Ninth street, (late managor of Jactfcn and
Co's Medicine Warchoufe, London); by J-Lc
■ hUnt,No. z'6 ;W. GriJftb.No. I7f, r. /W«,Ns.
at, South Tljird street, T. Stiff, No. 5.5, New street,.
near Vine ftrcut, and J. Quits, No. Race Greet.
Aug. 15. taths 3t
e COUGHS, COLDEST ASTHMAS, and
; CONSUMPTIONS.
. Tuft received* by Wm. Griffiths,N«. i?7,S*iuih
aecond-ftreet, a frefh supply of
Genuine Balsam of Honey,
10 A Medicine invented try the late Sir John Hill
r3 J\_ (who knowledge as a Botanist procuredhin«
j- the appellation of the Linnxus of Britain) and it
tonfidered in England as a certain pre for the above
complaints; it is also of Angular efficacy in the,
£ Hooping Cough,
It may mlfabehad retail of W. A. Stokes, No.
ch 61, South Second-ftrept, and T. Srirr, 55, New
iK. street, in bottles at 75 cent* each.
>r- Wm. Griffiths having observed the happy ef
le- fe£t of the medicine, (fevaral cases of cures liav
of ing come within his own knowledge) and the great
oi demand ,for ft hat induced him to order a large
supply, a part of which he hat just received,
er- Au,„Jl 3.
30 Dbllars Reward.
nd .
P° T) AN away on Saturday 1 aft, two indented Ser-
XV vanW.Siiferi Oally, a mulatto boy. about 17
C-M years of aye, a slim light built aft:?e fcllo*, ipji
the read and write,five feet leven or eight inches high,
has a heavy countenance ; had on a inltian coatee
[ and trowfers, a high crowned hat, fine shoes See.
*""" Allan Hellons, a black man, afceut 14 years of
age, five feet feren or eight ir.cfaes.high, a thick set
elumfy built fallow, particularly about the breech;
had on a laiior's blue jaekft lined w'ith fwanflciii,
dark frriped vel't, fuftian trowfers, high ci;owßCti
hat, coarse shoe«, &c.; each of fhem ha,d fever'J
(hilts and several other cioathtt with them. 1 hir
ty Dollars will be paid for the runaways; or 15 AtA- ,
kn for each, and reasonable charges, o» delivering
Ctf. tbemat No. J4. North Third-street.
The black fellow is about.a yiar from Lewis
Town, in the County of SuiT.cs, state of Dela-
ware, andhastaken tlw boy withhito.
July 31. mtuW^w
8«. To or RENTED,
AL\RGE 3 Story Brick House, en the
Souih fide of Filbert lfreet, between
Eighth and Ninth, lately occupied as the Sur
rt Of I VC y or General's Office. f
S<al " j The Building is 36 feet front and 35 feet deep,
<j6 ' 4 i fh* lot Ito feet deep, with the privilege of 1 niac
r feet wifle Alley extcndi»g the whole length ef
:n V the lot, to a thirty feet wide Court for Carriagei
tki to n,rn The H ° ljie is not P Jnd
C ' I may be turiwtl either into one, m two dwelSfl^
Hoifes. It is/uitable for 3 large M<inuf4alor)S,
or would make a good Tavern. Imsiedtate
rf7 '< peffeffion will he given.
Apply to Wo. 111, Chefnut-Strset.
'kila-1 Aug. it. ced+t.
ro ?v' 1 Mujical Injlrument MmufaftaT
"ecu- A'o. 167, Arch-Street.
•kit- T T ARPER, harpsichord, grand, pijrtablt grand,
Ihinc fidi-board, pier table and square piano «r-c
ell of makir from London, returns thanks to his frieiwh
' On and the public, for theff liberal cncouragemest,
nfl . and hopes that "by his affidoity and attienticn to cv
-1 ery branch of his bafinefs, to merit a continuance
;" am " ( f their favors. Piano fcrtes made on ths newi*ft
Ce and mod approved plans, with pedals, paten*
' ge 1 fwcll, and French harp flop, which he flatten
£*• I himfelf will ue found on uial by unprejudiced
judges, to be equal if not superior to any iihpcrt-
S- 1 C (l,"e.«d twenty .peT cent cheaper. Any ir.fir«
Vtf- [ nient purchased of him, if not approvedof h%
| twelve months, he will exchange.
I N.B. All kindscf M«fic,l inflrumentt made,
ies - I uned, and repaired wltll the s :eaieft accuracy,
pleai- | dispatch, apd on the reasonable terms, It.?
re ac-1 ready money only.
ennM&t | Second hand Piano Fortes taken in exchange.
n«e in I May v-. *
'k- 1 her I Forty Dollars Reward.
rnrfor -rj AN a\v;y from the■fubt'eyiber on the fee ',
:: her K. onctdayof tHis inft. July, P Mulatto Man,
polite j named V.'iil Dow/.er, about f«ty years of age,
r Mra. j five reet fevtn or inches liign, ratiier
11 their 1 chunky made ; had on when h® went away, a
drab colored cloth coat, ttriped purple trowlers
eets. and jacket. It is probable he wdl change h.s,
t>Ptf J cloathes, as he took a number with him. ih*
d made 1 laid fellow formerly belonged to Mr. Char Irs
and lot I Blake of this place ; and it is expeciec, lie las
made t»wafdi Jones's Neck, in the Delaware
t State. —Any perH n apprehending the laiu tel-
I low, and lecurir.g liifn so that I can get lnm a
11,Rice. I a ; n ft,all receive the above reward it taken
iin the J 0 f t {, e county, and Twenty Dollars it m
boards, I flle count y, and all rearoiiablocharges if bro t
t thcJbM.e, JESSE REED,
<C Quscs Ana's Mart 1 -'" 11 -
M.D.I "**• w V
*6t July 3- y