#a?ette of Unites
V&T3KR 1569 J
SALES 15V AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DRY GOOD S.
r Foucnoon —Edward Fox, No.
/ J fputh Kronf-llreet,
' 0,1 aj> ) Afternoon—Fofttmafl & Co. No. 6j
(_ Seuth Front-street.
( Forenoon—John Connelly, Old Citv
<j- rj 3 Audi ion, No. 73 scut.i Front-llreet.
v • J Afternoor*—William Shannon, No.
C is 3 High-street.
We&efday \ A ' tfrnß " fon - N °- 74
' J I south 1 hird-ftrcet.
Tburfday f Fox.
I Afternoon—John CenHellv.
■ .... } Forenoon—William Shannon.
' } Afternoon—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
For Savannah,
The faft failing' (hip,
■ SWIFT PACKET »
%'M^^t PATR,CK Grtebin, Matter,
Now lying opposite ths faotrh
x>t Creek, has ham'lome accommoda
tions for paflcngers, and will fail on or about
the jft of Oflbber.
l or freight or p.ifT ge apply to the mailer on
board, or of the fublrribcrs at Fraakforri, 5 1 j
miles from Philadelphia.
Nalhro &f y. Frazier.
r rankfovd, Sept. 18. dtiftO-
Fur HAMBURGH,
r j "HE Qopper Bottomed Ship
1 v i - VLO !< ' T E
-1 HOMHSON, Mailer, now at
Bright's wharf, and will be rea
; ' dy to take in on Monday next,
part of her cargo being engaged
and ready to go on board. The (hip "is so well
known, ttfat it is needless to describe her. She
is now in order. For Ffeight or Paf
f-g<'i pltafe to apply at Mr. Jeremiah Warder's
Company: Houle, No. 12, North Third street,
or to the Mailer on bord.
August jo.
For SALE,
On board the laid Ship, Swedilh Iron,a(Torted
and Window Olafs, Demyjohns, Wrap
ping Paper for Sugar Refineri, Rugs of I & 2
Quality. Please to apply as above, r
_____ wf&m+w
White Havarma Sugar.
1461 boxes') of very superior quality now difcharg*
7s bhds. J nig from the fliip Hamburgh Packet,
at Walnut Strest wharf—and for sale by
Philip Nicklin iff Co.
N. B>
THE SHIP
Hamburg Packet,
Silas Swain, Mafler,
Sale, or Charter.
Aug. 74. eotf
T a - " B d, * '
And peffejjion givm immediately,
A LARGE twoftory brick Honfe,bandfomdy
fituatcd in Princeton, There are four rooms
and a large entry on e&ch floor, and five rooms in
the garret, a range of back buildings 51 feet in
lca£t|i, and a piazza of 57 feet* There is a pump
in the yard, an excclleut kitchen garden, at the
farther end of which are a carriage houfeand two
{tables, one of which its new, 44 feet long, with
Calls in the two stables for 27 horfefc. The h£al r <
thinefs and plealantnefs ot its situation, and the
number of genteel and agreeable families in and
near the town, render it a desirable for a
gentleman from the city. The commodioyfnefs of
the house, its central position, and the largeness of
the ftablcs, make it|evcry way suitable for a tavern,for
which it has always been confiderd as a capital
(land. Inquire on the premises, of
ISAAC SNOWDEN.
Princeton, Anpr- 2j. 29 —diwiawtf
~ NOTICE. ~
IF Thed.t O'Hara, whofome years fincekept
School at the Nine Bridges, Queen's County, Eas
tern Shore, Maryland, be living, he i 9 hereby re
minded to call on, or write to, the Rev. Ambrose
Marflial, near Warwick, Cecil County, Eastern
Shore, MaryJand, from whom he will receive in
ter efting information.
' Augrjl 4. mwSfcf4w
THESUBSC RIBE R S,
ASSIGNEES OF JAMES QREENtEAF,
HEREBY give notice, that they havedifpofed
of the property afTigned to them for the feeuring
the payment of the notes, acceptances, and en
titlements given by Edward Fox, for the use
of the said James Greenleaf; and the holders of
fueh notes, acceptances, and endorsements,'are
hereby notifyed that the fubferibers will fettle
with them for the amount of their refpeiilive
claims, both principal and interest, at
any time before the 2cth day of Odlober next;
after which riav, the holders not,applying, will
be excluded, agreeably to the terms of align
ment.
Applications to be made at south-east corner
of Dock and Second streets (the Dock-street
fide), between the hours of eleven and one o'
elock every day, Sundays excepted.
Henry Prats,
Tho. fV. Fraud/,
John Miller, Jun.
John AJh ley,
Jaiab Baker. 1
Philadelphia, Augoft 18, 1797. d
The Inhabitants of the Diftridt
of Southwark,
RE informed that a Coaches is provided, to be
JL J- kept at the Constables' office, the north east
c.rner of and Almond streets, where the
friends of ihofe sick persons who deflre to be re
moved to the City Hospital, are requested to make
application—Alio, a Hearse will be kept in readi
nels for the remerval of the dead.
JONATHAN PENROSE.
N. B.—The Foor, who with to remove to the
Tents on Schuylkill, may be furnifced with orders
by applvinir as alinve. Aim 29
COMMISSIONERS' SALES, ,
'"I-'HF. Commiflioners of the counties of Ly-
X coming and Northumberland, have given (
notice that they intend to proceed to the sale of
lands, for the arrearage of taxes, 011 the 7th of t.
September next. I
£jT The different printers in this rity will
render an elTential service to a great number of (i
individuals by publifiiing this'rictice.
Aug. 18. -
PHILADELPHIA: TUESDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 19,1797
wanted
si Us on Amderdain, at a fiynt not. cxceedinef Cx
ty dsys, and witii approved Indarfers, to the amount
jf two hundred thouifand guilders—for which iafti
will !>e paid at the rate of thirty eight cents a guil
-1 der—Applications to be to George Sirupfrtn,
Eftj. Cafliier «f the Bank of the Unijied^tates.
Sept. 41. ' dtf
NOTICE
Is hereby given to the inhabitants Qf the Diftri(sl
of Southwark, that <a nieetiug will be held at the
Commifiioner's room, On Friday evening the 15th
inft. at 7 ocfock, to take into conficleiation, and a-
T dopt measures for the protection ofthe property of
our fellow-citizens from daring robbers.
JON. PENROSE.
Sept. 14.
Young Hyson Tea.
40 cherts ot a superior quality—Alio,
100 do. of Hyson,
Imported in the IVoodrof Sims, and for sale by
the i'ubferibers, corner of Second and Pine
, street.
C. liaigbt.
| June 11. _ eotf
Imported in the Jhip. Pigou,
t And for sale by John Morton, No. x si, South
Front-street,
1 Hyson
'■ Hyson Skin (.ctkac
Young Hyson C
Imperial J
April 20. eotf
This Day Published,
, And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of
Second and Chefmlt Greets,
I*i Ice }-olvs of a Dollar,
Observations on certain Documents
Contained in No. V and VI of
" The History of the United Stat«g for
the year 1796,"
In which th'* charge or speculation againll
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secretary of the Treasur, is FULLY
REFUTED,
m/rttjr «r himself.
This publication presents a concise statement
of the base means prailifed by the Jacobins of the
United States to asperse the characters of thof«
purlons who are cor.fidered as hollite to their difor
gai izing schemes. It also contains the cor
respondence between Mr. Hamilton and Messrs.
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venable, on the fub
jedl of the documents alorefaid, and a series of let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha
milton, proving beyond the polfibility of a doubt,
that the connexion between him and Reynolds,
was the result of a daring confpiraey on the part
of the latter and his atfociatcs to extort money.
A discount of one third from the
will be made in favor ot wholefaie purchaf rs, for
casu. Orders to be addrelfed ts Mr. Yobno.
Avau/l 25.
The Norfolk Mail STAGE.
THIS Stage ft am from the GEORGE Tavern,
at the corner of Second and Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, every Turf lay, fburfday, and Satur
day, at 3 o'clock, in the trorning ; arrives at Do
ver the firft day, at Snowhill the feeond day, at
Northampton Court House the thirS day, and on
the morning of the fourth day the paflengcrs find
a fafc and comfortable packet to convey thorn to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton ferry,
every Tuefdiy, Thurflay and Saturday, and the
Stage {tart* from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
( Mon.ay, Wcdnefday and Friday ;jput« up at Snow
Hdl the firft night, at Dover the id night, and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day.
The distance on this rout:, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is So miles less than on any stage route
between those places.
Too much cannot in favor of the road,
wlii:H is nioft excellent indeed. The proprietors
willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
pafi'enger, who, aftethaving performed this route,
will,fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the fame
diftancc, so good a road in America.
August 11. dim. eolf.
Philadelphia, lstb July, 1797.
NCTI'ICE is hereby given, that fcparate pro
pofals with sealed coders will be received
at my office until the eleventh day of September
next, to furnifh by contrail the fallowing ar
ticles for the use of the Army of the United
States in the year 1798.
First Contrail for
8 Sergeants cdats ")
2 Mulicians, do.
10 Sergeants veils Dragoons.
Ix 6 Privates coats 1
126 Privates veils
64 Sergeant's coats
32 Musicians, do. ' '
<)i Sergeants veils
192 Woolen overalls Artillcrifts
192 Linen overalls &
936 Privates coats Engineers.
936 do. Veils
1872 Woolen ovwalls
1872 Linen do.
i44,Sergeantscoats
, 74 Mulicians, do.
216 Sergeants veils
432 Linen overalls
432 Woolen do. Infantry.
1893 Privates coats
1892 , do. \iefts 5
3784 Woolen overalls ]
3784 Linen do. 1
ift Contra<Sl, for 1288 Sergeaists (hirts s
11816 Private do. t
12600 Socks (
2d Contrail, for 272 pair leatherbreeches
3d Contrail, sos 272 pair boots c
4600 pair shoes, No. 1 j,
Btoo pair do. No. 2 £
4th Contrafl, for 1032 Artilfcrilis and Engi
neers hats
2108 Infantry do.
136 Dragoon caps -1
The whole to be delivered at the city of Phila
delphia, viz. 4
One fourth on or before the 15th day of Fe
bruary next. 1
One f«urth on or before the 15th day of A-
pril next.
The remaining half on orbifore the 15th day g
of June next.
The articles are to be agreeable to such pat
terns as lhall be directed by the Secretary for the
Department of War.
Payments to be made as soon as the article S 1
(hall be delivered, 2nd parted infection.
TENCH FRANCJS, Purneyov.
eotntliSep.
Fenno, N* 119 Chefnut Street
Lately Publilhed,
t- !n one vol. Bvo (price one dollar in bcardsHSl'
by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of fee nd and
h Chefnut streets,
A- Culleftion of Papers on the fuhitft of
Biilious Fevers, prevalent in the UrJttd
States for a few years part.
Compiled by NUAH IVI'BSTRR, jun.
Containing letters from Doctors Siamun, Staith,
I Buel, Taylor, Ramsay, Mocfon, Reynolds, Mitch
c ell,on Contagion, &c. &c.
b Sept. I-. „
1 ■ ■ ...!»■
f City GommiJJioners Ojfiee,
Augu!l 29, 1797.
IN pursuance of an Ordinance of the Select and
Common C'Oundh, paiTed ths 2ld clay df May la!}. 1
PropofaU in writing will be received hy the City
Connmiffioners for one month from the ift of Sip.
tember next, for letting to rent on leafed far o»e
to contmeneethe firft day of January next, the
following public property of the city:—
: Thewhaifaod landing on Viue Street,
Also on s»(Tafras,
Mulberry,
And High Street?,
Cbefuut and Walnut Streets, Draw bridge, with
til* Scale and Fish Houses, Spruce, Piue and Cedar
, Streets. /
The cellar uuder the City-H*ll.
The 1 avtrn nt the middle ferry on Schuylkill,
with the lots contiguous thereto, (except so much
thereof as Plait be occupied by any buildings LTC't
etl fr.r the life of the Colledlor 0/ the Tolls, or be
necessary for the toll-gates,)
Jtawim.
r I. O S T, "
ON' the Paftyunk P.oad, between the Elue Ball
afs'd the city, a Fowling Pifct* v.'!tii a
I .ITrel and (liver light; on the plj:e';l she blift «fe
the Utters "Jamaica. 99" —as, r ciithe barrel
near tl\e lock '• London" and the Tower ftanp.
Whoever will return the aid piece to Jubm JhimarJ,
atthefign of tl>e Blue Bali on toe Paflyunk Road,
or the office of this Gazette, lhall receive a reward
of Four French Crowns,
.°«pt. 1 a. *, 3 t
DUTYI)N CARRIAGES. 1-
% -
Notice is hereby Given,
r PHAT agreeably to an aSt of Congress ef the
JL United States of America, palled at Phila
delphia, the »Bth day of May, 1796 ; laying du
ti«s on Carriages, for the conveyance of persons,
which (hall be kept by or for any person, for his
or her own use, or to let out to hire, or for the
conveyance of paHepgers, the fevertl duties and
rates following, to wit :
For and uporiVvery Csach, is dolt.
upon every Chariot, 1» dol&.
npon every Post Chariot, 11 dels,
upon, every Post Chaise, It dols.
upon every Phaeton,with or without top,
9 dols.
upon every Ooachee, 9 dols.
upon other Carriages, having pannelwork
above, with blinds, glasses or curtains,
9 dolt.
upon four wheeled Carriages, having fra
med polls and tops with (leel springs, 6
dolt. . .
upon four wheeled Carriages, with wood
en, or iron springs or jacks, 3 dolt,
upon Curricles wiji t«ps, g dolt,
upon Chaifet \?itVtopfc, 3 dolt,
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols,
upen other two wheel topcarriage»,3dols.
upon two wheel carriages, with lleel or
iron fpringt, 3 dols.
For and upon all other twcLwheel carriages, t dais,
upon every four wheeled carriage, havipg
framed posts and tops, and resting up
on wooden spars, 1 dols.
The Collectors of the Revenue for the firft Sur
vey of the Diftri<st of Pennsylvania, will attend
daily, until the 30th day of September nexf, for
the putpofe of receiving the duties on Carriages, at
Germantown ; at the house of Daniel St. Clair,Eiq.
in the County of Montgomery ; arM at the house
of James Chapman, Esq. in the County of Bucks ;
of which all pdrfons po£fc3ed of such Carriages are !
desired to take notice.
Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers ih Wines, and foreign dlf.
tilled fpiritunus liquort, that licences will be grant
ed to them ; one licence (of carrying on the busi
ness of retailing of Wines, in a less quantity, or
in less quantities than thirty gallons—and one li
cence for carrying on the business of retailing Spi- (
rituous liquors in less quantities than io gallons, at |
the fame time and at the fame pljees, by the offic
ers legally authorised t* grata furh licences.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpe&or of the Revenue of the firft fui
vey of tSe Diftriit of Pennfylvauia.
Office of Infpe&ion at ~f ,
Germantow, nth Sept. x 7J>7- j
IMPORTED J
Im the iliip America, James Ewing, viaiier, from
Hamburgh, j
Brown Hollands
White Piatillaa (
Ticklenhnrgs t
Coarse Linens
Tapes
Looking GialTes 7 r
GJaft Tumbler. \ M ~ f * 1
FOR SALE BY 1
George Pennock.
Aiigu/l 14. jaw
jin elegant House in Arch Street.
TO be let and entered on immediately a large
and elerant house at the Corner of Arch and
Ninth Street. There are two drawing rooms
and one dihiag room—the largest is 31 feet hy
26 —and two are so conneiSed by folding doors
as to mate but one. Also, five bed rooms, be
sides 5 in the garret, well finilhed for servants.
There are stables and a coach house, wilh evry
convenience for a family. Enquire .it No. 29,
iif North Seventh street, or at No. 218, Arch
Street;
T ' ■ rtw3vr.
PETER BORGER,
INFORMS his friends and the public in general
that he has removed from No. '2O, corner of
Arch and Fourth, to No. 105 Nortn Front, be
tween Arch and Race streets.-
July s*. yw4w n
Window Glass,
©f Superior Quality, and cheaper than any other in
the Citv —
OF VARIOUS SIZES, r
From Bby 6toJ9 by 14,
By the/ingle Box or Quanti'.y* may be had at the
Store of the Subscribers, corner of Arch and Froat
ftreet.
Javics C. tjf Samuel W. Ft/her.
Philadelphia r -J ne9, 1797.
ia Daily Advertiser.
I insurance Company of the State
' d of Pennsylvania.
I 'HE Office will be kept until further notice at
the School House in Germantown. The
Company ftiil retain the room in Chefnut, above
•Seventh ftrret, where a pcrfon will attend to re
ceive and give answers to applications, every day
1 from jo until.! o'clock,
i* T 3- d3t2awtf
Bank of North America,
September 8//;, 1797.
OV Monday next the Notices for all Notes or N
Bills payable atthisßank.which fall dueont.hat
and. the enfuiHg 6 days, will be served on the P<iy-
ers: And the like Notices on every Monday, till
the further orders-os the Directors.—Perfous wifb-
ing to deposit Nates or Bills for Collection, which
are to fall due within the week, r.iuft themf«!ves
undertake to notice to the Payer*. dtf
TO BE SOLD,
And immediate poffejfion given,
A Convenient well finilhed Brick Tenement,
with a cook house and other out hou/es,fitu
ated in a pleasant part of the borough of WiJming
t* ton, in the State of Delaware—The lot of ground
r has forty feet front on Weft-flreet; and extends
through the square to Pafturoftreet, on which is
eredied a ft able and carriage honfe.
ALLEN M'LANE.
1 T^m ' n^ ton » -Aug. 30.
t Red Port Wine.
Just arrived, by the brig Iris, capt. Rhuci/i, from
Oporte,
Fed Port Wine in pipes, hhds, and quarter calct
, 6e cwt. Cork, for sale by
s Philips, Gramond, & Co.
Ju'y at. 5
The Partnerlhip,
UNDER the firm of FREEMAN & Company,
is diJTolvtd by mutual co'nfcnt. All persons
having any demands, against tke said House are de
sired to render the fame to T. B. Freeman ; and
those indebted to the House are defircd to make pay
ment to him—By whom business will in future be
carried on,r.t his Store, No. 39, South Front-flreet.
Auguji 7- eod4w
N P T I C E.
ALL those who have any claims against the
eftate'of John Cole, Umbrella Maker, lata
deceased, will apply within a month from the dafe
hereof, to Mrs. Cole, at the south east corner of
Green and Second streets, for their arrangement.
N. B. if all demands are not Tent in before the
expiration of the abovementioned time, they will
not be allowed, as his property will be disposed of.
Sept. 9. ■ *3t
Imported i'ntheIhipMANCHESTER,
Benjamin Shewbll, Mailer,
From Bourdeaux, and for sale by the fubferiber, ,
No. 11. Walnut Street.
Bonrdeaux Brandy
Irilh market claret in cases ( Entitled to
Medocwine, in do. f Drawback.
Sauterne, do. » do. J
Thomas Murgatreyd.
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter casks
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
4000 bushels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. . tut&stf.
A PERSON OF INGENUITY, lately arrived
from Europe, wifhefrto find here a place in
the quality of a Dire&or of a Glass-house, Chryf
tal of all kinds, having particular nvrans tor the J
conftrmflion of the kilns, pots, &c. and poflefiing i
likewise the articles used in the Glais houses of c
England and France, having worked a long while t
in m#ft of them, fcvery exertion will be made to c
render the manufatflory deserving of public appro- <
bation—He, who wifli«s to speak to him, will find t
| him at No. 275 Front-llicut. t
- Aueuft 24. *4t £
For sale or to be let on ground- f
rent,
yf valuable Lot qf Ground !
SITUATE on the north-eiftcorner of VV'al- c
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State- r
House square. This lot is fit'ty-one feet front ;
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen a
feet and an half on Fifth street ,• there are at c
present two final! two story brick houles, and a c
number of small tenement; thereon. t
Al/o, for Sale, t
Two three story Brick Houses c
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. lituare on f
Wattr-ftreet, between Mulberry and Safiafras (
streets, containing in front on Water street f.f- £
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east- c
ward nirie:y-ftve feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. Thd'e houses ( |
ave the convenience of a public alley adjoining j f,
on the north fide, and are a very delirable fitua- t
tion for a merchant, flour fasor,or others who t
miy haveoccafiori for storage of goods. This c
property will be fold on very reafocable terms* c
for cash. For further information apply to the 11
printer. s a
July 3i. m&wtf a
The Subscriber has for Sale, a
A large aflbrtment of India Muslins,
coarse and fine 0
India Calicoes 0
Sooty Romalls si
B'ue Cloths and Checks a
Bandanna Handkerchiefs £
Blue red and Gilli Handkerchiefs t ]
An invoice of Irilh Linens and Sheetings, well t j
assorted [ t
A box of Diapers „
Silk Umbrellas a ,
Two boxes ef fine Spices, cotaining Nutmegs, a
Mace and Cloves n
Black Pepper of firft quality
East India Ginger ,
Java Sugar f (
A quantity of Madeira Wine t
Ditto of Gin
Roll Brimstone c .
Mordecai Lewis. %
Augufi 11. 3«wim I'
■ ———,— . ■ .■— - d
Cedar Shingles.
r I "'HE fubferiber has a quantity of 3 feet Cedar
X Shingles cf a superior quality, for at 13
dollars p.r thousand. a
William Hallo-welly
- No. 193 Nsrtk Third-Jlrett.
' July 17. aoiac
2 i homas Herman Lrukfer,
North fifth liraet, corner of North alley, No. 34,
HAS TOR SALS,
1 p 1 XCfiLLENT rod Ho'.lrileaux Wise 111 czfesaixl
e boxes, si* years old
e \\ hite Graves Wille in caflgs
f icklenbtirgs
1 Ruflia Sail Cloths
Ravens Duck
Bag Linen
' Heflhns
Diaper and Table Cloth \
Empty bags
\ Caramon German Clo-h
t An assortment of black Coloured Ribbons
. Fine German Laces
About twelve tons Ruffiiclesn Hemp
. Clover Seed
1 ' ta J <a _D Soap, in small boxen, for family ufa
s W jnao-w Glass p ii--
TSIS DAY WAS
And for file by THOMAS DOBSON, at the
Stone House, No. 41, foutli Second Aregt,
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED
ConiUiing of a vanety ©1 Miscellaneous Pkcts.Yor
the inftrta&jon and aniufemeat of YOUNG PER
SON 3—Six Volumes fcandlomely printedsßd bounci
up in two volumes, price Two Dollars.
Ibe variety and excellence c.f thcfc piece? ftre
such, that the bgok needs only to be kno\frn to be
universally efteenied one o: the moil: valuable pub
lications th t can be put int« the hands of younc
pvrfons. *
Delightful task to sear the tender thought,
i o teach the young-id va how toihoot,
ro pour tfcs freth o'er the mind,
To breathe th* enlivening spirit.and to fii
Thegencteus pur'pofa in the breast."
Thomson.
THISD a Y IS PUBLISHED, '
By THOMAS DOBSON t at the Stone Houli,
No. 41, south Second {lrcet,
Letters and Conversations,
Between several Tuung Ladiee, on improving and in*
, terefting fubje&s.
Translated from the Dutch of Madane de Camitn
with alterations and improvements,
Printed tnfine paper, an J neatly found,
Price one dollar.
AMIDST the tide of modern Romances, painting
tales ef extraerdinary diftrel's, or of desperate or
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul,'' and
whic'a it would be for the honor of young ladies So
be ignorant of, this little book comes forward to so
licit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds of real life, the proper, becauft
elegant and natural dignity and importance of the female
tbaraSer.h exhibited in an interesting point of view,
and presents examples of real and attainable excel
lence.
The publiffier waj fomuch pleafedwith the pert*
sal, that he was persuaded he Ihould do a pleasing
ferviceto the community by fending it inio circu
lation. August 24 —mw4w
To Maflers and Pilots bringing up Vejfcls
from Foreign Ports to this City.
TT7"Hereasfundry infringements have lately been
VV made on the laws of this state for the pro.
venting pestilential or infefUous diseases, either
from ignorance or inattention thereto, it is tho't
expedient at this time to publish the following ex
tracts from the laws of aid April, >794, 7th a»J
Bth fe<9ions.
HEALTH-OFFICE.
June 6th, 1794.
ExtraS of an all for securing the city and pari
of Philadelphia from tkr introdußion of pefii
bential and contagions diseases.
Sect. 7. And be it further enafled, that every
matter or captain of any ship or veflel coming from
lea (vessels a&ually employed ;n the toaftmg trade
eitepted) and bound to any port or place within
the jurifdi&ion of Pennfylrania.fljaUcaufe his (hip
or veflel to be brought to anchor,or otherwise flay
ed in the stream of the river Delaware, oppefit# to
the Health-Office on State-Ifisnd aforefsid, and
there to remain until he shall have duly obtained a
certificate or bill of hcal h,from the Resident Phy
ficiari. And it, previeutly to obtaining such certi
ficate or bill of health, any mailer or captain shall
fuller hislhip or veflel to approach neartr than the
said Health-Office to the city of Philadelphia, or
Hull land, cause or fuffer to be landed, Or brought
on ffiore, at any place or port within this Com
monwealth, or at any other port or place, with the
intent of being conveyed into this Commonwealth,
any p. rfon or persons, or any goods, wires or mer
chandize, or, if after receiving such bill of health
o. certificate, iy shall neglect or refufe to deliver
the lam- to th'. Health-Officer, such mailer of cap
tain shall forfeit ana p-y, for each and every such
offence, the fnm of rive uundred dollars.
And the captain or master of every ship or ves
sel shall fend, a fafe and commodious boat to bring
the physician on board, and shall in like manner
convey him bade to the Hsalth-Office, after he has
concluded hi* official examination ; And trhiie he
i« making such examination, or in cafe any fuble
quent examination by the Health Officer or Con
sulting Physician, agreeably tq the diredians of
thi- a<a, the mailer or captain shall expole or canio
to be (fxpofed to th« Aeareh of the Resident Physi
cian, or of the Health Officer and Consulting P|j S
ciau (as the cafe may be) each and every part olihe
Ihip or veflel, and (hall present to his view each
and every person or persons on board thereof, and
and fllall also true and l'atisfa&ory anlwers make
to all such questions as the Resident Physician, &c.
at the time of examination shall ask relative to the
health of any port or place fr»m which the ffiip or
veflel failed, or has since touched at—-the number
of persons on board when the (hip or vefiel entered
on her voyage—the number of persons that have
since been landed or taken on board, and when
and whererefpe&ively—what perfoas on board
f they liafe been during tfte voyage, or shall, at
the time of examination, be infeited with any pes
tilential or contagious disease—and what is the pro
fent state and condition of the persons on board
with rcfpc<sl to their health or diseases. And if
any mafler or captain fhalf refufe to expose as afore
aid, to the fcarch of any of the officers aforcf aid.
n if he shall conteat any ftclt psrfon,«r in any ftber tnsn*
jfr deceive the.proper officers aforefaid in tit an fivers,
uch captain or mafter,for every such offence, fhajl
forfeit and pay the sum of five hund»ej> dol
lars. s
Sect. 8. And if assy ucrfon or persons \vhati'«-
cver (the Resident Physician, 6cc. excepted) ffiatt •
go on board any vessel, before the mafler thereof
lias received a certificate of health in the manner
dire&ed, every person so offending, shall pay tV
um of ONK HHNDRKO DOLLARS.
IT being aHolutely necessary that the. foregoing
fe&ions lhnuld be punduajty complied with, th*
fobferiber, m ,compliancs with hi 6 duty, must es
ail a rigorous observance of the fame, or else be
untier tlifi neccflity of putting the laws in force.
«. ALLk'ty, Health Officer of tfre
Poti $f tlUad^/jia.
J*'r 14- Jjw
[VOLUME XII,P H I L A H E LJP H X 'A ,
TOSSDAYEVENING-,
*Tranflated far ihe G AitTTt of the United
StATES.
FRENCH REPUBLIC.
lEGisLATIVE BODY.-
coVNZiL of five hundred.
motion or oKDEk Bf Emm. PAsrokhr,
On the present state of our political and com
mercial relatiouswith the United States
of North America.
Sitting of tbs lli A'lr/Ji.lcr, <tb yeiir, ycth *Junt, T J<)"J•
Representatives as the People,
The Conftitntion has ordained, that war
cannot be declared but upon the formal and
neceflary proposal of the Executive Diredto
ry ; but it has also ordained that the Legis
lative Body has the sole supreme decision of
this queftibn. The constitution has ordain
ed, that in cafe of hostilities impending or
commenced, of menaces or preparations of
war, tgainft the French Republic, the Ex
ecutive liireftory shall be bound to employ,
forfthe defence of the state, the,means pla
ced at its disposal; but it has at\ the fame
ordained, that the Dire&cry (hall without
delay give information thereof to the Legis
lative Bcdy.
Yet, there is a people to whom treaties
unite us; and we do not know what is our
political fituatlon with refpeft to them.-;
On the one hand, the Executive Directory
pafles dtcrees which are real aggreflions—
declarations of war ; on the other, we fay
(0 ourliclv#*,-war-does not exist ; for the Le
gislative Body has not decteed it ; we ave
not in the predicament of hostilities impend
ing or commenced ; for the Legislative Bo
dy has not been informed of it.- Can there
fore the Executive Directory, at its plea
sure, add to or violate treaties and laws ?
If the general principles laid down upon this
fubjedt by the Constitution require develope
ment, does it not belong to the Legislative
Body to -demand it .' Ought it not to be re
membered that treaties are to nations what
laws are to . the citizens ? The expression
Punic faith, an expreflion invented perhaps
by the jealousy of the Romans, yet tarriifhes,
after twenty centuries, the country of Hail- :
nibal. ' j
A treaty concluded on the 6th of Febru- ,
ary 1778, unites, by the double tie of Bom
meree and friend/hip, France and the Uni
ted States of North America. This treaty •
embraces fdfce articles, which I am obliged
to cite ; because they have become the
prctextfordivers decrees equally contrary to
the constitution and to the laws.
ARTICLE 11..
The most Christian king and the United j
States, engage mutually not to grant any
particular favour to other nations, in refpeft
of commerce jnd navigation, which (hall
not immediately become common to the |
other party, who (hall enjoy the fame favor '
freely, if the conceflion was freely made,
or on allowing the fame compensation, if
the conceflion was conditional.
ARTICLE XV,
And that more effectual care may be tak
en for, the security of the fubjefts and in
habitants of both parties, that they fuffer
no injury by the men of war or privateers
of the other party, all the commanders of
the fliips of his most Christian majesty and
of the said United States, and all their
fubje&s and inhabitants, shall be forbid
doing any injury or damage to the other
fide ; and if they aft to the contrary they
shall he puniflied, and (hall moreover be
bound to make fatisfaftion for all matter 6f
damage, and the interest thereof, by repa
ration, under the pain and obligation of
their person and goods.
ARTICLE XVI.
All fliips and merchandizes of what na
ture soever, which (hall be rescued out of
the hands of any pirates or robbers on the
high seas, (hall be brought into fomC port
of either (late, and (hall be delivered to the
of the officers of that port, in or T
der to be restored entire to the true pro
prietor, as soon as due and fui\ient proof
(hall be made concerning the property
thereof. '
ARTICLE XVII.
It (hall be lawful for the fliips of war of
either party, and privateers, freely to carry
whithersoever they please, the (hips and
goods taken from their enemies, without
being obliged to pay any duty to,, the offi
cers of the admiralty or any other judges ;
iior shall such prizes be arretted or seized
when they come, to and enter the ports of
either party ; nor (hall the searchers or
other officers of those places, search the
fame, or make examination concerning the
lawfulnefs of such prizes ; but they may
hoist fail at any time and depart, and carry
their prizes to the places expreflied in their
commissions, which the commanders of such '
ships of war (hall be obliged to (hew : on
the contrary, no (helter or refuge (hall be 1
given in their ports to such as (hall have '
made prize of the ftibje&s, people or pro
perty of either of the parties ; but if fueh
(hall come in, being forced by stress of
weather, or the danger of the sea, all pro
per means (hall be vigorously used, that '
thty go out and retire from thence as soon
as possible.
A RTICLE NXXIII. 1
It (hall be lawful for all and Angular the <
fubje&s of the most Christian ju'ng, and the j
citizens, people and inhabitants of the said ;
United States, to fail with their (hips with
all manner of liberty and security, no dif
tin&ion being made who arc the proprietors
of the merchandizes, laden thereon, from ;
any port to the places of tho,fe who now j
are or hereafter shall be at enmity with the
most Christian king, or the United States.
It shall likewise be lawful for the fubjefts
and inhAitants aforefaid, to fail with the
Ihips and merchandizes aforementioned, and
to trade with the fame liberty and security
from the places, ports and havens «f those
who are enemies of party,
withoift any oppflfitioii o"r disturbance what
soever, not only direftly from the places of
the enemy aforementioned to neutral places,
but a'lfo from flue place belonging -tt> ait
enemy, to another place bclo:igjr)g to an
enemy, whether they be under the jurisdic
tion of the fame prince, or under fevcral.
And it is hereby stipulated, that free (hips
shall also give a freedom to goods, and that
every thing (hall be deemed to be free and'
exempt which shall be found on board the
(hips belonging to the fubje&s of either of
the confederates, although the whole lad
ing or any.part thereof (hould appertain to
the enemies of either, contraband goods
being always excepted. It is also agreed
in like manner, that the fame liberty be
extended, to persons who are on board a free
(hip, with this effeft, that although they
be enemies to both or either party, they
are Mot to be taken out of that free (hip,
unless they are soldiers and in adlual service
of the enemy.
ARTICLE XXV.
To the end that all manucr of diflentlons
'. and quarrels may be avoided and prevented,
on and the other, it is agreed, that
j in cafe either of the parties hereto (hould
be engaged in war, the (hips and veflels be
j longing to the fubje£ts or people of the
' other ally, must be furnilhed with sea let
ters or passports, expressing the name, pro
•perty and bulk of the fhjp, as also the name
and place of habitation of the matter or
i commander of the said (hip, that if may
I appear thereby that the (hip really and truly
belongs to the fubjefts of one of the par
ties, which paflport (hall be made out and
granted according to the form annexed to
j this treaty; they (hall likewise be recalled
every year, that is, if the (hip happens to
. return home within the space of a year.
: It is likewise agreed, that fuclx fliips being
| laden are to be provided not only with
pafTports as mentioned, but also with
cytificates containing the several particulars
of the cargo, the place whence the (hip
failed, and whither (he ii bound, that so
it may be known whether aoy forbidden or
contraband goods be on board the fame ;
which certificates (hall be made out by the
officers of the place whence the (hip set fail,
in the accustomed form ; and if any one
(hall think it fit or advisable to express in
: the said certificates, the person to whom
j the goods on board belong,' he may freely
, do so.
ARTICLE XXVII.
If "the (hips of the faiff-fubje&s, people
• or inhabitants of either of the parties (hall
be met with, either failing along the coasts
or on the high seas, by any (hip of war of
. the other, or by any privateers, the said
(hips of war or privateers, for the avoiding
of any disorder, (hall remain out of cannon
(hot, and may fend their boats aboard the
merchant (hip which they /hall so meet with,
and may enter her to the number of two or
three men only, to whom the master or I
commander of such (hip or vefTel (hall exhi
| bit his pa(Tport concerning the property of
the (hip, made out according to the form
inserted in this present treaty, and th<- (hip,
when (he (hall have (hewed such paflport,
(hall be free and at liberty to pursue her
voyage, so as It. (hall not be lawful to molest
or search her in any manner, or to give her
chafe, or force her to quit her intended
course.
Let me now present the decree palled by
the Executive Directory, the 12th Ventofe,
sth year, (2d March 1797.)
"Article I. The commifiionersof the ex-'
ecutive dire&ory, to the civil tribunals of the
departments, shall take care, that in disputes
concerning the validity of maritime captures,
no judgment (hall be rendered upon the 7th
article of the law of the 13th Nivofe, 3d
year, without firft consulting the minister of
justice, conformably with the 3d article of
the law of the Bth Floreal, xth year, rela
tive to treaties, in virtue of which, neutrals
may claim an exemption, in confequenec of
the firft of those laws, from the execution of
that of the 9th of May, 1793.
" Art. 11. The minister of juftiec (hall,
in consequence, examine whether the treaties
referred to,yet subsist, or whether they have
been modified finee their conclusion. The
minister of foreign affairs shall furnifh him for
this purpose, with all the information he
may (land in need of, and the former (hall
refer the matter to the executive direftory,
in the manner preferibed by the law of the
Bth Floreal, 4th year.
" Art. 111. The executive dire&ory re
minds all Fresch citizens, that the treaty
made on the 6th February, 1778, between
France and the United States of America,
has been, according to the terms of its se
cond article, modified of full right by that
concluded at London, on the 19th Novem
ber, 1794., between the United States of
America and England.
" Consequently,
" 1 ft. Agreeably to the 17 th article of the
treaty of London of the 19th of November,
1794, tranferibed below (1) all merchan.
dize to the enemy, or not fuffici
ently appearing to be neutral, laden under,
the American flag, (hall be confifcated ; but
the veflel on board of which it (hall be found,
(hall be released and restored to the owner.
The commifTaries of the executive dircftory
(1) ARTICLE XVII.
It is agreed, that in all cases where vessels
(hall be captured or detained on just suspici
on of having on board enemy's property, or
of carrying to the enemy any of the articles
which are contraband of War j the said veflel
(hall be brought to the tieareft or most con
venient port ; and if any property of an ene
my (heuld be found on board such veflel,
that part only which belongs to the enemy
(hould be made prize, aud the veflel. shall be
at liberty to proceed with the remainder
without any impediment. And it is agreed,
that all proper measures (hall be taken to
prevent delay, 111 deciding the cases of (hips
or cargoes so brought in for adjudication ;
and in the payntent or recovery of any in
demnification, adjudged or agreed to be paid
tp the mafter# or owners of such (hips.
are enjoined to accelerate judgment on liti
gations which may itrife cither concerning
the validity of the capture of cargoes or coij,
cerning the freights and detentioas, by all
the means in their power.
" 2d. Agreeably to the 18th article of
the treaty of London, of the 19th Novem
ber, 1794, tranferibed below (2) to the
articles de<Jared contraband by the 24th ar
ticle of the treaty of the 6th February,
17781 the following are added :
Timber for ship building,
Tar, *pitch and rosin,
.Copper in sheets, '
Sails, hemp and cordage,
And every thfngferving direCtly *or indircß
lyfor the armament or equipment of vefTels, un-
Wrought iron and fir planks excepted. These
various articles (hall be confifcated as often
as they fh&Il be destined, or as it shall be at
tempted to calxy them to the enemy.
" 3 1 '- Agreeably to the 21ft article, of
the treaty of London of the 19th Novem
ber, 1794* tranferibed below (3) every in
dividual known to be American, bearing a
commifliorj given by the enemies of France,
as also every sailor of that nation, making
part' of the Tew of the (hips or veflels of the
enemy, (hall be, on that account alone, de
clared a pirate and treated as such, without
being permitted, in any cafe, to alledge that
he was forced to it by violence, menaces, or
otherwise.
" Art. 4th. Conformably to the law of
the 14th February, 1793» the provisions of
the regulations of the 21ft October, 1744,
and of the 26th July, 1778, concerning the
manner of proving the property of neutral
(hips or goods, shall be executed according
to their form and tenor.:
" Consequently, every American veflel,
not having onTjoard a r6l« d'equipage in due
form as prefepbed by the model annexed
to the treaty of the 6th February, 1778,
the execution of which is ordered by the
25th and 27th articles of the fame treaty,
(hall be good prize*."
Let us in jhe place attend to the firft
article. The Directory refers to the 3d
article of the law of the Bth Floreal, 4th
year ; but in referring to it, it adds to its 1
provisions. The law of the Bth Floreal
gives a power : the decree of the 12th ven
tofe imposes an obligation. It declares,
" the commifTaries (hall take care, that no !
judgment jbe rendered, without the minister
of justice being firft consulted." /Whereas
the law only declares, in the 2d and 3d ar
ticles, that " matters of. prize, in which
neutrals have any interest, shall be commu
nicated to the commiflary of the executive
direftory, within 24 hours from the filing
* These words are not contained in the
British treaty.
(2) ARTICLE XVIIL
In order to regulate what is in future to
be esteemed contraband of war, it is agreed,
that under the said .denomination (hall be
comprifcd all arms and implements- serving
for the purposes of war, by land or sea, such
as cannon, mu(kets, mortars, petards, bombs,
grenades, carcases, faucifles, carriages for
cannon, mu(ket rests, bandoliers, gun-pow
der, match, faltpewe, bait, pikes, swords,
head-pieces, cuiraflei, halberts, lances, jave
lins, horfe-fnrniture, liolfters, belts, and
generally all other implements of war; as
also timber for (hip-building, tar or rozin,
copper jn fhcets, fails, hemp, and cordage,
and generally whatever may serve direCtfy to
the equipment of veifels, unwrought iron
and fir planks only excepted ; and all the a
bove articles are hereby declared to be just
obje&s of confiscation, whenever they are
attempted' to be carried to an enemy. 1
And whereas the difficulty of agreeing on 1
the precise cases, in which alone provisions j
and other articles not generally contraband
may be regarded as such, renders it expedi
ent to provide against the inconveniences and j
misunderstandings which might thence arise:
It is further agreed, that whenever any such ,
articles so becoming contraband, according !
to the existing laws of nations, shall for that
reafou be seized, the fame shall not be con
fifcated, but the owners thereof shall be
fpeedfly and completely indemnified ; and
the captors, or in their default, the go
vernment under whose authority they aft,
(hall pay to the mhtters or owners of such
veflels, the full value of all fuclt articles,
with a reasonable mercantile profit thereon,
together with the freight, and also the de
murrage incident to such detention.
And whereas it frequently happens that
veflels fail for a port or place belonging to an
enemy, without knowing that the fame is
either besieged, blockaded or inverted ; it is
agreed, that every vefliel so circutnftanced,
may be turned away from such port or place,
but (he (hall not be detained, and her cargo,
if not contraband, be confifcated, unless af
ter notice (he shall again attempt to enter ;
but (he (hall be permitted to go to any other
port or place (he may think proper : Nor
(hall any vefliel or goods of either party, that
may have entered into such port or place,
before the fame was besieged, blockaded, or
invested by the other, and be found therein
after the reduction or surrender of such place,
be liable to confifaation, but (hall b'e restored
to the owners or proprietors thereof.
(3) ARTICLE XXI.
It is likewise agreed, that the subjeCts
and citizens of the two nations,' (hall not do
any aCts of hoSiUty or violence against each
other, nor eceept commiflions or instruCtions
so to art from any foreign prince or state,
enemies to the other party; nor shall the
enemies of one of parties be permitted
to invite or endeavor to enlist in thiir milita
ry service, any of the subjeCts or citizens of
tjie other party ; and the laws against all
iuch offences and aggressions shall be punctu
ally executed. And if any subject or citi
zen of the said parties respeCtively, (hall ac
cept any foreign commission, or letters of
marque, for arming any vessel to aCt as a pri
vateer against the other party, and be taken
by the other party, it is hereby declared to
be lawful f<w the said party, to treat and
punilh the said subjeCt or citizen, having
such comnaiffion or letters of marque, as a
pirat*. '
of the papers in the regiftiy of the tribunal."
" If the commifTary deems it nectjfary, he
(hall immediately referittothe minifterof jus
tice, who, after -having confuked the direc
tory, shall within a decade, answer the letter
of the commifTary."
The law expressly determined to avoid the
absolute obligation of a reference in all cas
es ; it determined it in order thar it might
not multiply the expenses and delays al
ways too heavy, always too long for those
who come to ask for j.iftiee. The decree of
the 12th Ventofe, on the contrary, imposes
it as an indifpenfible necessity. The decree
then is in contradiction to the law: it. is
therefore in itfelf a real legislative act : it
is then an iifurpation of a power which
the will of the people has riot delegated
to the directory ; and is therefore uncoHfti
tutional.
The minister of justice is to be consulted
in relation to treaties in virtue of which neu
trals clam an exemption, by the law of the
13th Nivofe, 3d year, fro,m the execution of
that df the 9th May 1793.
Let us firft turn our attention to these
two laws.
That of the 13th Nivofe, Aug. 7, fays :
" The national convention enjoins all the
agents of the republic, all the commander!
of the armed force, the officers civil and mi
litary, to cause toberefpeCtedand observed all
the provisions of the treaties which unite
France to the neutral powers of the old con
tinent and to the United States of America.
No infraction of those treaties (hall be made.
All provisions which are contrary to them,
are annulled."
The following is the law of the 9th May
1793-.
Article I. " The French vrfTels of war '
and privateers (hall stop and bring into the
| ports of the republic, neutral Veafels which
| may be foijnd laden in whole or in part, ei
ther with provifionsbelonging to neutral pow
ers and bound to enemy ports, or with mer
chandize belonging to enemies.
" Art. 2. Merchandize belonging to e
nemieS is declared good prize, and confiscat
ed for the benefit of the captors. Provi
| lions belonging to neutrals (hall be paid for
at their value in the place for which they
deftined.
" Art. 3. In all cases, neutral vefTels
(hall be released as soon as the unlading of;
the provisions detained, or the merchandize j
seized, (hall be effefted. The freight for
them (hall be paid at the price stipulated by
the (hippers. A just indemnity (hall be
granted in proportion to their detention, by 1
the tribunals who have cognizance of the
validity of prizes."
The law ofthe9thMay 1793, was repealed
onthe 2 jdofMay following, on thereportand 1
request of the committee of public fafety, ;
so far as concerned the United States. Five
days afterwards, on the 28th of the fame
month, the national Convention, on the mo
tion of one of its members, abrogated the
repeal, decreed that merchandize detained
Tiouid CL'.itinue proviflpnally sequestrated,
and that the united committees of public
fafety and of marine (hould make a defini
tive report to them irf three dsys.
This report was only made on the Ift of
July following ; but it confirmed the ex
ceptfbn pronounced by the decree of tbt
23d of May, in favor of the United States.
Of what consequence is it, said the reporter,
that your privateers have cruized unfuccefs
fully ? If we (lipulate for the interdt of
privateers, doubtless we (hall take no par-1
ticular notice of a faithful ally ; but when
we (lipulate for treaties, for the public faith,
we (hould not put into the balance with
these interests the produce of a few captures
of provisions.
The law of the ift July 1793, is thus ex
prefled :
" The national convention, wishing to
maintain the union eftablilhed between the
French republic and the United States of
America, decrees, that the veflels of the U
nited States are not comprehended in the
provisions of the decree of the 9th May j
conformably to the.l6th article of the trea
ty concluded onthe 6th Feb. 1778*"
On the 27th of the fame month, the fol
lowing decree was made :
" The national convention, after having
heard the report of its committee of marine,
upon the petition of the owners and crew of :
the privateer the Sans Culotte tie Honflevr, \
praying that the decree of May last
may be maintained, decrees, that it main
tains the provisions of the decree of the 9th
of lad May, relative to neutral veflels laden
with provifious or merchandize belonging to !
enemy powers ; that it (hall have its full
and complete execution ; and that confer j
quently all other provisions which may be ;
to the contrary are and shall be repealed;" I
Let us recapitulate th fe different laws,
let us combine them together ; let us fee
what is their result, what is consequently, in
relation to the Americans, the state of the
French legislation upon the subjeCt of prizes.
The law of the 9th May 1793, is the old
est : how shall it be reconciled with the 23d
article 6f the treaty of 1778 ?
The 23d artiele permits the French and
the inhabitants of the United States freely
and fafcly to frequent the ports belonging
to« poWer in enmity with the two contract
ing parties or one of-them ; it not only
permits a direCt commerce from an enemy
pott to a neutral port, but even from one
enemy port to another; it adjudges'free
and guarantees all merchandize found on ;
board of vefTels of one >»f the two contraCt- j
ing parties, and this, when the cargo belongs !
in whole or in part" to enemies of one of
the two ; contraband alone excepted.
What in the mean time fays the law of
the 9th May 1793 authorizes French
(hips of war and privateers to stop and
bring into our ports neutral vefleU laden
with provisions for an enemy pojt, or with
merchandize belonging" to an enemy, and
declares this merchandize to be confifcated
for the benefit of the captore.
The United States of America were not
nairted in the law > nevertheless, as its pro- ■
visions are general, it was impoflible sot to j
comprehend them in It. The cfecree of the
23d May and ill July 1793; pronounces m
their favor an exception at ogee just and
conformable wish the treaty of the 6th Feb.
1778. It is pretended, that the decree of
the 27th of the fame month repeals it. 1
am far from thinking so ; no expression ma
nifefts it ; and in faft is it to be prefumcd,
that without the smallest diflcuffion (the
newspapers of that period do not even men
tion that the decree was proposed and pair
ed) a law was repealed, which been
made some \Yeeks before) made after, a pub
lic opposition, after a frefh consideration
twice adopted?"always at the request of the
committee of public fafety, and enafted ex
pressly to-prevent the Americans being com
prehended in the law of the 9th of May '93.
Howsoever it might be, the doubt, if
there exitteu a legitimate doubt, could not
lad longer than the 2d month of the 2d
year. For a law of the 27th Brumaire fays :
" Art. 2. The treaties which bind France
to the United States of America (hall be
faithfully executed."
" Art 5. The committee of public fafe
ty is charged to take measures for drawing
closer thi* bands of alliance and friendfhip
which unite the French republic to the U
nited States of America."
Behold ! what the national convention
declared, what it desired, even at the period
when perjuries and crimes'predominated ! It
exprefled the fame fentfment after the down
fall of decemviral tyranny. The 7th arti
cle of the decree of the 13th Nivofe, 3d year,
effeftually renews the injunction upon the ci-«
vil and military officers to cause to be ref
pefted and observed all the provisions of the
; treaties between France and the United
States. Have thele two laws been since re-*
pealed? they have not. Supposing then
that the decree of the gth of May 1793 had
recovered its force with respect to North
America, it loft ft again. And how ihen
is it pofllble to iriragine that the executive
directory should found themselves upon it ?
How imagine that the minister of jnftice
Could prevent the execution of a law in
force, and direst the execution of one re
pealed ?
The 2d article of the decree of the 12th
Ventofe charges the minister ofjuftice to ex
amine whether treaties, which came in ques
tion, yet subsist, or whether they have been
modified since their conclusion.
Wc are in the firft place aftanifhtd, Avhen
treaties between two powers are in qi:ertion,\
that the direftory should address itfelf to
the minister justice. The examination,
the maintenance, the execution of "treaties,
belong, by the nature of things, te the min
ister of foreign affairs ; and the law of the
| 10th Vendemaire, 4th year, contains au ex
press provision for that purpose. I never
theless conceive, that the question being con
sidered in relation to prizes, a fubjeft of ju
dicial cognizance, the direftory should ap
ply to the minister ofjuftice. But at least
it should not charge' him exclusively and
without limitation with the examination,
whether treaties yet subsist they
have been modified.
A treaty, moreover, is not the aft and
the property of one nation only ; it belongs
to the two nations who have fubferibed it ;
the confer* of both is neceiTary to destroy
it. If one of them thinks the other has
violated it, it may complain of .it: it may,
it ought to declare to the other, that it re
gards such or such an aft as an infringement
of the mutual agreement, a commencement
of hostilities ; but until then, until the mo
ment when the rupture is announced by a
refufal to explain, or an unjust explanation
of the party complained against, the trea--
ty remains a common' and reciprocal lav
for the two states ; it must be obeyed or/war
declared.
I know what will be answered. The
treaty, it will be said, was firft violated bj
the Americans : should we then be more
faithful than themselves ?
I know not whether this reproach, tak
' ing it to be true, obviates the remarks I have
made ; and as I little know to what extent
such an excuse is proper. If I should ad
mit, in the mean time, the validity of. the'
excuse and the precise application of the
reproach, the truth of the infraftion with
which the United States of America is char
ged, would still remain to be proved.
The' 3d article of the decree of the 12th
ventofe declares the treaty of 17 78to be mo
dified of full right by that of 1794. The
treaty of 1778 fays, article 2d: "France
and America engage not, to grant any par
ticular favor to other nations, in refpeft of
commerce and navigation, which shall not
immediately become common to the other,
party." What then is the modification pro
duced in this article by the treaty of the
19th November, 1794 ?
It is, fays the decree, in the 17th article
which direfts the confifcation of all enemy
merchandize, or such as does not fufficiently
appear to be neutral, laden under the Ame
rican flag.
There never was a maritime war which
did not induce difcuflions on the fubjeft of
prize, between the contending aud the neu
tral powers. The principles of different
nations have not always been uniform in
this refpeft : yet there is one of them which
is more generul, and which the law of na
tions does not disavow : it is, to take ene
my's property 011 board of neutral veflels,
and to rellore neutral property- fo)ind
on board enemy 'rcte. » Such was
always the fyitem of England. The United
States, who, until then, had no treaty of
commerce with her, severely felt the evil of
their veflels being flopped and even detained,
when in she end they must be restored. I
suppose that this consideration diftated the
17th article of the treaty of 1794 : but how
then does it modify the 2d article of the
treaty of the 6thFeb. 1778 ? Where then is
the particular favour it grantstotheEnglifh ?
The decree of the 12th ventofe afterwards
adds to the Catalogue of contraband.articles
mentioned in the 24th article of the treaty
made in 1778 between -France and NorUi
America, Lv. ..t '" 4 •
Twlxr for fiiip bulldftog, (
. Tar, pitch* ami rosin, |
Cov»pc in fl\eets,
Saris, hemp. Mid cordage, , /
And every thing, which may serve direft
!y or *inAirtßly to the armament and equip-' .
meut of veflels, unwrought iron and fir
planks excepted.
Here also the treaty of 17 94 fe j.ves as the
pretest to the e>xcutive direftory. But
may it not be obfervfd, that these articles
were always and generally refpefted as 0b
... 'iefts of contraband in time of war, when a
fpecidl trenty, like ours with America, has
not pronounced.a clear and formal, excepti
on ? The British government has not, at a
nv tim? admitted » similar exception. The
18th artick; of the treaty of 1794 has then
innovated nothing in refpeft to these ; and
therefore occasions no modification. Eng
land acquires no new favour ; (he remains
in the situation in which till then she never
ceased to be ; and it may be asked how far
the executive direftory has a right, without
the intervention of vhe body, to
place among the articles of contraband, mer
chandize which an existing treaty has not
placed there.
The decree of the 12 th ventofe, still tra
> cing the modifications which it supposes to
exist, fays further :
'• Every individual known to be an Ame
rican, carrying a commiflion given by the
enemies of Franc#, also every sailor of that
nation making part of the crews of enemy
veffcls, (hall be, on this account alone, de
clared a pirate and treated as such, without
being fuffered, in any cafe, to alkdge, that,
he was forced to it by violence, menaces *>r
_ ©therwife."
The decree founds these provisions upon
the 21 ft article of the treaty between Ame
rica and England j but this article it similar
to the aift Article of the treaty ps 1778 j
and, in the one ai well 33 the other, it is
merely stipulated, that tU« fubjeft or citi
zen ofoneofthetwocontrafting parties, w'uo
fhcllaccept any commifiion or letter of marque
from a foreign power, to arm a vessel with
intent to aft as a privateer against one of
the contracting parties, (hall be considered
and treated as a pirate.
Neither of these two treaties extends the
profeciition and penalty to other mariners
of the refpeftive nations.
I will not allow myfelf any other reflexi
on upon this, than th?t such a provision is
, barbarous.
The 4th article of the decree of the 12th
ventofe direfts the execution of the regula
tions of tl\e 21ft of Oftober, 1794, and
26th July, 1778, with refpeft to Ameri
can vessel*. It conCequentlv declares them
to be good, prize, if they have not on board
... a role d'equipage in due form, such as is
prescribed by the model annexed to the
treaty of the 6th of February, 1778, the
execution of which is direfted by the 25th
✓and 27th articles of the fame treaty.
Without examining whether the particu
lar regulations of France can fubjeft our al
lies at home or on the open seas to observe
the fbrznalit ies which they have not stipula
ted for by treaties made with them ? With
out examing whether the-7th article of the
law of the 13th nivofe does not annul the
provisions of these regulations, where they
are contrary to the treaty of 1778,1 observe
that the article is grounded upon an error.
No model of a r6le d'equipage is annexed to
the treaty of 1778 ; tfee 25th and 27th ar
ticles do not even speak of it : the word
is not even once contained in a single sentence
of this long treaty. Never fiace its conclu- :
fion was it demanded from the Americans ;
every one knows their sailors are not classed-
What end then (foes a role d'equipage an
swer to them ? Before his departure, the j
csptain merely presents and leaves a lift of
the company he has, and upon this lift a
passport is dtlivered to him. See its form at
the end of the treaty } it supposes, it requires
nothing more.
1 have run over the decree in all its de
tails : let us now endeavour to colleft the
general motives for it.
The treaty of the 9th November, 1794,
is evidently the motive of the conduft of the
direftory. In the fupremc magistrates of a
people I like this civic aoimofity, this, anxi
ous and jealous zeal for the interests of the
country: I even believe, that the American
government has merited some just reproach
es for treating with its firft enemy without
communicating' the matter to its oldest
friend. In the mean time let us also recol
left ; that France had then no-longer a ma
rine which could protest the commerce of
the United States ; that the English were
the maftm of every sea ; that anarchy de
voured-our unhappy country ; and that at
the epoch of the treaty, the Americans re
mained ignorant that the 9th thermidur had
finally driven guilt from its throne.
Shall I add to these considerations a pic
ture of the conduft of the French agent in
the United States ? Hardly arrived in South
Carolina, where he landed, he endeavoured
to fowthe feeds of infurreAion and discord,
,to .make enrollments, to arm privateers:
he went further; he gave those, whom he
had thus armed ; he gave them, of his sole
and full power, on the terytory of an inde
pendent and free republic ; he gave them,
commissions to seize the veflels of nations
••• with whom the Americans were at peace,
to whom they were even allied.
' .Another minister plenipotentiary arrived
t at Philadelphia in the month of June, 1795.
He complained, that the treaty .of 1794
puts it out of the power of the United
States to form conveniently a new commer
cial alliance with the French republic. The
American government answered by commu
nicating the treaty itfelf: and observe that
,at that time it was not yet ratified ; it could
not therefore be said to exist. Observe also,
that these were not the only circumftariees
which produced trie idea of this compaft
between Great Britain and the United
States : those who have attentively follow
ed the courfc and progress of political
[*' The words in italics .%/ not contained
in tbttreaty cf 1794.]
events, know that for several years its exist
ence was forefeen dreaded. France
and the United States had even expressly
declared, in the preamble of the treaty of
amity and commerce Concluded on the 6th
of February, 1778, that they mutually re
served the liberty of letting other nations,
at their pleasure, participate in the fame
advantages.
I repeat it ; I am far from approving of
the treaty of 1794 ; more courage and at
tachment perhaps became these brave Ame
ricans. But after all, us again view
them still 3ffoeiated with a people without a
marine, whocould neverthelefsably defend its
alliesbyland.bfltnot uponthefeas; Scefpecial
ly upon those diftnnt seas where the British
veflels maintained an undisputed, undivided
rule ; with a people without a government,
delivered up to all the furies of anarchy and
guilt : but finally, if the United States have
violated the duties of decency and refpeft,
they have violated no engagement, they
heve usurped jio right ; they have only
availed themfelvgs of the universal right of
nations, to form contrasts when and how
they please. Are we then the sovereigns
of the world ? Are our allies then only our
fubjefts, that they cannot make contrasts
at their pleasure ? And truly, it is not a
little lingular to hear the French govern
ment alltdge the treaty of the 19th Nov.
1794, t0 bean aft of hostility, whilst they
themfclves order all Americen veflels to be I
captured, without having declared war. j
yho docs not know, that since the com-'
; mencement of the sth year, a great num
;.ber of them have been confifcated .1 And
almost all, the faft is remarkable, belonged
! to men known for their attachment to the
I French. They have been taken with t))c
< double violation of an alliance and of liof
pitality : they have been taken in our very
port?. But lately, an American captaifi
was ioiprifoned at Bred, is not this to
■nwit thf reproach we so often 08ft.
the Engli(h, of forgetting upon the seas
all good faith, all juflice ? Even lawful re
prisals could only authorize us to seize Bri
ti(h property in American veflels ; but we
take the veflel itfelf; and we even take the
American property it contains ! Neverthe
less, as was well observed a few years ago
by the present vice-president of the United
States, Mr. Jefferfon,.whofc sentiments to
wards France are known, according to the
law. of nations it cannot be doubted, that
the property of a friend found on board the
vessel of an enemy is free, and that at the
fame time the property of an enemy found
on board the veflel of a friend is lawful
prize.
America had to fear at firft, to have
for enemies England, Holland, Spain, all
then at war with France. In the midst of
this universal struggle, would it then be
criminal to preserve towards all an ufeful
neutrality ? Is it not known, that in such
a political situation, the neutral powers be
come the maritime carriers fcr the powers
at war ; for the latter (land in need of their
own (hips and sailors for warfare.
In another point of view, two courses pre
sented themfrlven to France ; to receive suc
cours from America, and to make ufeof her
against England j or to permit an alliance to
be formed between England and America.
It is at firft view inconceivable, why the for
mer (hould not obtain the preference, why
we (hould lose the fucc#urs of an ally, why
we (hould not give to our enemy one enemy
more ; the fceblenefs however of the mari
time succours which America might furnifli
i us, rendered delusive, in the particular cafe,
. the advantage which, in a general point of
view, so agreeably presented itfelf. The
' other course, on the contrary, of placing
j America between the two combatants, to
| make of her, by her alliance with each of
the two, a neutral power with refpeft to the
other, would offer to us in the.United States
(as an allied power, considered in relation to
us,— as a neutral power, considered in rela
tion to England who is contending with us)
great facilities in navigation and commence.
I am far from attaching to these reflefti
ons the importance of a demonstrated truth j ,
I only present them as doubts : I merely
wi(h that they may contribute, to bring the
two countries-back to those principles of
moderation and friendfhip, whieh will in
crease their mutual strength : I wi(h that,
by injurious bravados, unworthy of itfelf,
the government may no more.alienate a peo
ple whom we ought to cherift both for the
good they-have done us and for t-he services
we h* v e rendered them. We .complain of
the Americans ; but has not Washington, in
his last address to congress, solemnly con.
tradifted those imputations so v3giie, so un
certain ? We complain but wlist would
have been our conduft and our language, if
we had seen, a 6 in America, a foreign mi
nister plenipotentiary begin to levy troops
and fit out privateers without the permiflSon
of the government ? We complain ; but are
not the United States the firft pe»{sW\vho
acknowledged our liberty ? Was it®o*?rodi
them we feceived, in times of difficulty,
(whatever ingratitude and bad faith may fay
of them) those nourishing grains of jwhich we
were in absolute want, and for which I "do
not know whether they are yet paid ? Did
not the legislature of Carolina very lately di
rest to be paid- to us a sum which remained
due to us, immediately and by preference,
although this legislature was partly compo
sed of the owners of (hips and goods which
ivcnf just confifcated in the American seas
by French veflels ?
Behold also what was their conduft at
the moment when they learned, that the'
French government, deceived by its agents
in the colonies, fuffered itfelf to be drawn
into prejudices still more unjust. A new
ambtiffador was suddenly difpatehed to the
direftors of the republic. But to whom
was this honorable mifSan confided ? Cir
cumtlnnces required more imperio-ufly than
eveV, a firm and decided friend of peace ?nd
of France. America pofleffeda man, who,
being a courageous defender of the liberty
of his country, happy iuhaving contributed
,tp its birth and confolidatiou, always pre
served for the people, whoft fuscous pro
tested the acquiiition, an unalterable fenti
aient of gratitude and affection ; a man,
whom we can but little f lfpefit of predilec
tion or favor for Great Britain, inasmuch
as during the W3r of"American indepen
dence, liis property in Carolina, where he
lived, was evtr the firfl delivered .up to de
vaflation and the flames. Returned to his
fields, as soon as peace* w f concluded with
the former oppressors of In's he
lived afar swim all public cmplbyments ; and '
it whs there that he was fought for to be
engaged as the mediator between two peo
ple whom he' loved, and the peace-maker
of America. -Complaints plight be made :
these are the explanations he cam?, to ofler ;
he carr.e to enlighten the French government
concerning the conduct ofits agents, and their
calumnious imputations call upon the Unit
ed States ; he came to calci the animgfities,
the noise of which menaced the repose /if
the two worlds. He arrived ; -aod imnedir
ately hewasorderedtoquitFrance.lt wis not
Mr. Pinckney who was .rejected, btr. the
government of which he was the muifttr
and the organ (I ).
And whilst the envoy of the United States,
met with this humiliating reception, what was
the conduit of the agents of the Direftoiy at
St. Dora ngo towards them ? We may roikon
among the benefits done uj hy the Airier tans,
the liofpitalitv and relief afforded to our fugtrve
coli nifts. This honorable testimony of attach
ment and fenfibiiity is . not foreign from the fe
ci motives of hatred which the present gorern
, ors of our colonies bear to them- Head in the
official journal of the Directory (ijPrairial,
stii June) an extra<st of a letter ./ritten o» the
Vemofe of this year, to the minister of ma
rine by the F'enth ctvnmiffaries to the Leen-ard
Ivlands. They ann .unce, that having found no
rcfource itifiasnce, and knowing tfce unfriend
Ik difpofitioii ps the Americans, in order that
they might not miserably pirifh, they had fitted
slut cruizers ; that already privateers were
upon the , Teas ; and thar for three month* the
admiutrtration had lubfifted, an I individuals
hjd enriched themfclves fra\r> ti.e p»odflce of
pri?t». They .ificrt, that it b«*jr.e' their devo
tion and pitriotifin not to rhetn'.'jlves on
lcrount ol'.all the pjli!l<n eon si derations
which were opposed to (licm. They also de
clare that ever rh» decree of tlfe 14th Meffi
di- (?) was unknown to them forfive months
after this, peti. d. But, ftty they, the revolting
conduft of the Arnsrk-ans, and an indirt(3
knowledge ef the intentions of oar govern
ment, made it adutyfnr us to order reprifaU,
even before the receipt of the official notifica
tion. They felicitate themfclyes, that the vef
fell of that nation arc taken, and declare
that th'cy have learnt by divers perfomTrom the
continent that the American" were perfidious,
corrupt, the friends of Ehgbnd,and that in con
feqnence, their vcfiels no longer tntered the
French ports, unless cond lifted thither by force.
One thinks he dreams when he reads this letter ;
he thinks himfelt transported into a fsvage coun
try, where men not yet acknowledging th« empire
of morals and ef laws, commit crimes without
shame and without remorse.and applaudythemfelves
for robbery,as Paulas Enpiti*s or Cato'wouldhave
applauded themselves for an eminent service per
formed for their country. Privateers armed against
a friendly nation ! Reprifik, when it is eurftlves
who -make the attack ! Ileprifals against a nation
which hap never taken one of our veffeli! Riches
acquired by the cor.fifcation of the ve'fTcls of a na
tion whi.h treaties unite totis, from whom no
declaration of war has fiiparatcd n« I .You suppose
they poflVfa wdfienily tyy-frfim • bfrt Xti\* me then
in what they confilt ; where, wben, how have they
manifefted them ? Cite me theu a faft, a proof of
tleir rrmfcng cofdvd. Alas X I have already bid
it, that which you call unfriendly dispositions, a (
revolting conduit, is to have grantee! a generous
asylum to the unhappy rolonifts whom guilt forced
to implore it. Tie agents,- who, without author
ity, having according to their own cnnfeDion only
an ini'irrß InnuUdgc of » prefunicd imer.tioiu cause
the vefTelsof allies to be captured ; who commence
a ruptureupon the pretence chat they fcir it ; who,
even many months before they knetv of the dccrie
of the 14th MclS4<>r» infetfed the fe»« with priva
teers 1 Tlii' agents wijo denominat* refpeil for
treaties puftllanimtui
'perfjievi towards whom they violate' the public
faith ; who decide, as it ptfTcff-.il of sovereign
power, whether an altiiftee fel ffobfifts ; whether
oe not it is reseflary toiler, into a state of w-,r ;
whilst the direflory itCflf-poft-fTes not the light,
without the will of thq
aginti fay amounts to thi*—' having nothing
wherewith tt> buy, f t:<ltr ; I make amends for the
•property i w*rt, hy the pir«ywhich enriithes irje j
,1 finally defame..tipfc,whom I bSve jlujidered."
This is rah-cfj ju niyl, calumny.
ShsJJ 1 aid to this Ivtjer.ofthe comintffaries ' at
' St. l)o ningo, a letter, very ftranje,' written in
the name of the tnlnill*r to th " conlul
gensrsl cf the Unitml states. ■ 1« i* asa tMb "jour
nal of he ■ with it 1
(17 Floreal. 6 MayTjrtie'csinful general c«ra
plair.ed of the coiimcandns pfonoui ccdby certain .
tribur.als agalnS tht: letter -of trca'i,», notwith
ftaneiingprtfsf that tht vdSl truly belohged .to a
citizen of >Ke Unstfd Stftjp, »nd had no contra
band goo.'s on board njjjiilb r, afjer a lengthy
dileuffiiß, but entirely grounded upon the l'ytlem
Of th'-s dscretf r,f tl e litffe Vcntofc, the viciouf
nefs and linceriflituttonsHty'of which I have de
monstrated; die minister concedes with an ej
preflion so aftiwiifhing that about it, even
after ! have traofciibed jt_:let your goTcrcment
break the Inconceivable treaty it conciuiicd on the,
19th Nov. 1794 with our mod implacable ene
'l) Read aifo the following <Jrc-re, made
about two months ago, on the lift Germinal,
'jtb year. y
« The Executive Direflory decrees, that the
p.ifipoms issued by the dipjomitic niiniltert and
envoy's qf the United States of Aiaerisa,'or
copfir.mrd by ibern, (hall not be permitted or
allowed by any out'nority."
Is not tiiis a formal violation of the treaty of
1778, w-hirh wquir.s that the Americans be
treated as th» molt fa-vtwtii nuions it not '
a real holijiity f . ' '
(a ) The following is the decree, whieh was
only pvih.ifhed 00 t)« jd
" It shall lie »'6ti#enj without (jeb_y, to air
the neutral and allied powers,^Ut 1 the flag, or,
the French
to neutral vefle'ls, tfte &t*e -cottduit, which
they fuller the Englilb \o jiirf'ie" towards them,
whether it be in point examina
tion, or fiiptßfe." , ;
J.< »!s decide- crftformable w-ffii thielaws of
■ the 23d of May and Tft July IM, 27th Bru
maire, ad year, anjilljth Nivofe;-jrl year ?
Without in any ether refpeft its
jnftice or injulficf, I aft whether the Executive
Direfioi V could !t withcut the jnterVen- :
tion of -the Legislature ? 1
Some days after its publication, 9th Frimaire,,
{hi? Direftury mide flill another decree, which
follows, and to which tfiefameTemarks appljrt
" 'l'be freight arid demurrage arising from
th'e fioppilig nf neutrals, ir> , (.i)rci H.ny/ v itli
the.decrec-s / tbe 14th and aSrh 'Mefiidoi;, shall
be charged upon the captors in rift.- tb»
•4 cargo » .taken j.swl "P sn tlw i-.emajndcr ofthe
■ cargo whei® cnly a Jiart 0- it is
.
njies ; then the French republic will cease tcr apply
to ltfeif the pfoviSons of thiitreaty which favor
Feg'and te its prejudice, and we ihall not [be them,
t warrant you, cited licfrif - any tribunal to sup
port anyunjuftpretenlions."
Have T read it right ? Unjuji prttrnjnni ! h it
ooflible, that they have been thus characterized by
the very mi>ifter who is th.-ir ag-int and defender ?
•Ah ! lay afidc yourjirtftn/iont. your m-naces, your
difdjins. Do not occauon by your lnconfiderate
proceedings the very you feat. Can Eng
land defii'c liny better than enmity between
France and }Tor t;?i A nerica. ? We thick ts avenge
of the Eugliih.—we f.-rve them. Tn -x
---afpernte the United States ; is it not to carry
back to GreaV Britain ? To mln the American com
merce ; is it not to encreafe the British commerce ?
Peace, peace is what the inturcft and Wants of alt
prcfcr.be. Let in.'utiry every where reanimate it
felf : let every i'ca be free. Smitten with conSa- .
graticn and ravage, with a long ttexility, let our I
colonies rife to public order, to agriculture, j
to prosperity. fcet our confidence>n the Uhited j
States be renewed, that it may renew their confi
dence in us. Let the two worlds, witr.:;lies of our i
fuccel's, also w'jr ess the facrifice of our refentmenjs, |
even though legitimate. Riprefentatives of the i
people, Dir9i*ors of the Republic, Frcnchnfen, all J 1
you who have beer, great in victory, be still greater '
in moderation and g-s-.rroCty. Let us dare, as we
are all-conquirors, and merely becaufa we ate con
querors, let us tlsre strongly to express a desire for
universal peace, so/ peace even with that ancient ;
rival, wbofe envoys are now about recommer.cing j
the negotiations which have been ctxf long fufpeud
ed. Lrt peace.be also restored to the interior of j
our troubled country. Has not the empire-os sac- I
tiotts, of hatred, of, veugeanfe, of crimes besn
long enough protraSed. 1 do not knew liberry
With fire bran<(» and poniards By means ef con- 1
vulfiens, you will <!eftroy the lenfe of it. Yes,
there is ro generous heart which dors not prefer 1
the agitations of liberty to the forced inaction of a
stupid slavery; but if these agitations every day
become storms-; if these Ilorms become violent 1
temrefls ; if these tempefis fkake, overtuin. root
up fucceflively sverj social institution, ali the as- i
fcftions of nature, all the rights of man, all the
duties of a people,—hr.ppinefs will always fly far
from us, and death will be tht sole hope of virtue.
1 move,
lft.l hut the decrees of the 14th Meilidor, 4th
year, 9 Frimaire, it Vcntofe, and 11 Germinal,
5 year, be sent to the committee charged to re
port on the conduct to he oM".-rv:.d by the legjfla
rure, when the direflory pasTes decreet tMitxary te
the eonOitution andth* laws :
zd That this committee-be dlrsdled to report,
in two decades at molt:
3d. That a meffagc he sent 'J the direciory to re
.qviefl thetn ta inform us of the prrfent fta'e of our
political an l{commercial relations wi'hthe United
Spates of North America, and of the executions of
the different laws passed tbetn.
4th. That a committee of five members be ap
pointed to bring in a law to organize the princi
; pies eflablifhed in the Ilth title of the conllitutiou
al aS, article 316 and the following.
—www
%\>e®ajette.
. PHILADELPHIA, '*
TUESDAY EVENING, September T 9 .
CITY HOSPITAL REPORT,
From the 18th to 19th Sept. in the morning.
i Admitted, sinCe last report,
ana Myers, Palms alley, South Front ft.
m. Abbott, 21, Penn street
[John Fletcher, Plumb street.
Arnold Craigh, Spruce between 6th 8c 7th
streets.
Patrick Dougherty, Queen street.
Letty Smith, 77 South Front street.
SuCan Kirk, George's corner Plumb street.
Benjamin Johnson, Ferry house, Market
street wharf.
Daniel M'Carter, Catharine street.
Susan Brown, Mr. Bum's, Water street, near
Drawbridge.
Difcnarged since last Report.
Wm. Cooper, admitted 15th inft.
John Dempfey, I*l
James Clark, 10
George Corbett, 11
Elizabeth M'Cabe, 8
Pat. Gallr.gher, 9 *
Died, since last report,
John Daly, admitted 16th.
Elizabeth Schylt, admitted 14th
Mory Maglone, ' 13
Benjamin Johnson, 3 hours after admifllon.
Error in report of 16th to 17th, inltead
of James Field, 'in report, of deaths, read
William Fleming.
Remaining last Report 47
Admitted since, 10
56
Discharged 6
Died 4 10
Remain inHofpital, | f 7
Five of whom are dangerous.
Interred ink City -Hospital burying ground
since last report :
From the city andfuburbs 4
From the city hospital 4
Total 8
Stephen Gi*ard,
(Signed) Caleb Lownes,
John Con<ieli.,y.
Published by order of the Board,
JOHN MILLER, Jun.
* Chairman.
v, ——— *
Tolals of iiuriah for'tfi hours, ending Mon
day at noon.
Grown Persons. Children.
St. Pe'er's I O
Seccnd Pxefbyterian I o
St. Mary's I . o
"Trinity t' °
Swedes t t
German Lutheran I t
German Reformea t , 0
Baptists 1 o
Potter's Fisld c a
City Hospital* T4 o
Kensington 3 o
Total 16 S
* from 'lie {ity, t _
DlED.—Vcfterday at noon, fylrf. Eli
zabeth C*.vald, late col.
Elfazet Ofvrald. This lady has fallen a fa
crifice, to the prevailing disease. She took
the infection in fulfilling the tender duties of
a mother, and nurse, to her unfortunate son.
By. the death of this amiable lady, society is
deprived of a valuable member, and her chil
dren of a tender and effeilionate mother.
DrtD, —yefterday< morning, Mr. John
Victor Journel, of the honfe of Taraf
c6ijand' J9tirnel, m«tt;liantß of this City.
v ■ • i ■+■ . « <
Col. Charles Pettit fias 'recently been*
thrown from a chair near Mouat Pleasant
the feat of Jonathan Efq. and
dangerotifly hurt. .
One day last week, a gerttleman deicend
ing a deaiivity in a Gig, without any breech--
band for the-horfc, (winch is the cafe with
moll p{ the gigs and kittereens) the carri->
age was propelled'againftthe horse, which
gxving him a start, he ran awaybroke the
carriage to pieces and wounded the gentle
man severely.
A Turnpike is about to eftabliihed
between Albany and Schenectady, and a
fubfeription has been opened fijr railing
fund*. The dillance is about 16 rtiiles.
Several of the New York EditorsJfcm
puzzled to account for the contradictory
nature of the Intelligence received from the
-Spani.'h frontiers. The fact is, that sundry
letters of the'jth of June originality pirbli/h
---ed in Claypoolc's Daily Advertiicr contai:»
details of certain tranfadions at the Natcher
of the progress and result of which we pu'J
lilhed an authentic account down to a math
latci date near a month ago. See Gazette of
the United States, Aug. 25.
An Alexandria paper of the 14th contain#
the following paragraph.
At a late hour last evening, we received
a communication from a gentleman whoi
left the Natchez in the middle of Jsly; at
which time there was no prospeCt of a spee
dy settlement of the differences with the
Spaniards, things remainiug in the famt
state as at the date of our last authentic ac
counts from that quarter. This communi
cation is lengthy and interesting—it will be
given in our next.
* # " Nicms" in our next.
GAZETTE MARIN $ LIST.
Port of Phiiapblpvja.
< * CLEARED,
IBrig Prince Fr.:U f,ddar t \Sf. Thomas
Sihr. fta Fletver, A nijtn iV'indfat
Stoo6 Salty, ' >/
I }th. Ari.* Fty, Mt-jftU, li/ira
Sloop Pu'ly Knight. *J ! '
l\lh, Stcop
I stb, Scb. JFrictrJbip, Oil in, 8.. r'irfrtoil
Sully, Rubtntfwt, Currituck
Sleep Sa'ly. Albright. AUxartelria
18/£ ( Mrig T)e T autcire, Dunp'jy, Cape Ernvcnir
Sc4- jtttJ ntwj, ( -.'l'', yew T-art
Sloep-JDelpbin, Deify, Richmond
A brijr and schooner, each with a figure
head and yellow fides, arrived at the fort
this morning, Names and place whence not
yet ascertained,
The schooner Flying Fish, Capt. Msx- '
well, from Jamaica, now at the fort, was
brought to, a few days ftnee, by a gur
from the French privateer now at anchor of*
the Brandy wine. Capt. Maxwell h'iled
from Hampton Roads, but this not fat'sfy
ipg the Frenchman, he sent his boat, well
manned, to overhaul the fchoonet's papers.
Ik the mean time Capt. Maxwell fuf . ed
himfelf to drift astern t>f the privateer, and,
jirft as the boat was dropping alongside, he
hoisted fail and made off. The privateer
weighed anchor shortly after, but did not
tliink proper to pursue.
New Tori, Septemltr 18.
■ARRIVED, DAYS#
B|ig Two Sifters, , Norfolk
Schooner Ellice, Galloway, Richmond 8
Slpop Betsey, Elkins Baltimore
;Brig Triton is returned astir being out 7
d^yo—Captain being dead.
Norfolk, Sept. IT.
On Saturday last arrived the Fiota, Capt.
Wm. Colley, in fix weeks frofn Liverpool—■
The (hip Flora, captain W- Colley fail
ed from Liverpool the ?Bth July, in com
pany* with the following vtJTeh :
< f Ship Neutral'ty, Dawfon.
For Norfolk, < Brig Eliza, M'Conijel.
L Eliza Wrght, J a (per.
f Ships Alex. Hamilton-!
For Baltimore < Favwi, & Becket, Cun
(_ ningham.
For Philadelphia, the Ship Pigou, Sinclair.
Left there.
Ship Industry, Vickei"y, for Norfolk, to
fail on the 10th or 12th August.
Ship Planter, Driver, for City Point, to
fail the ift of August.
Ship Alknomac, Lemond, for George*
Town, to fail the fame time.
Ships Clothier, Gardner; and Seymour
Willis; to fail for Philadelphia in a few
days.
Spoke.
On the 21 ft August, in lat. 44, 20; long.
48, 30, the brig General Wayne, capt.
Wells, 11 days from Bolton for Naples.
Baltimore, September 16.
ARRIVED.
Ship James, M'Carthy, Rotterdam
Montezuma, Chafe, London
Brig Mercury, Miller, Hull
Contential Gronwald, Halifax
Betsey, Whitemalhl Bolton
Sloop Polly, Gladding, Norfolk
Mary, L'Hommedieu, New-York
Green, New-Port
Swift, Ballace, Currituck
Schr. Hellcn, Tuycrofs, Bath
William Love'l, Hill, Charleftom
Diamond, Attwood, Stonington
Arrived on Thursday last—brig Mercu
ry, Miller, 45 days, from Hulk—
Sch'r. Mary, of Alexandria, Evelette,
23 days from Kingtlon.
Ship Jair.es, jo days from Roteerdam.
Arrived yesterday—Brig Colombia, Rol
lins, 84 days from Galway, with 144 pa f
fengers, all in good health. July nth,
spoke ship Ritfon, for Norfolk to London,
lat. 45, 28, long. 28. 30th, spoke fliip
Elizabeth, of New-York, from Savannah
I to Liverpool, out 11 day*, lat. 38, long,
j66 t . .
Mr. L AIL? ON,
WITH nri insertion to render service, and unde
ceive those Performers, who during his abfrnce Mr,
has thcuuht proper to eog a £ e > thinks ic
would be wrong in him not to inform those that
are engaged, th?t it Is wirhoir his approhafion, aud
that he will not he in any way anfwetabl- for Mr.
Jaymond*B engagements.
PHILIPPE LAILSQN.
'r'-a xrl'E dollarsreivard.
RAN away from the subscriber, an indented
Servant Girl, namad Nancy "Anderson, a
i?out twenty of age, short, thick set person,
Xv.th fbert black hair shad on when <he wcnsAway,
a dark calico gown, £>fi old black"silk cloak, and a
\ l»ck fuf hat. Whoever will fteure said girl, and
pve-information thereof to tkc fubfetiber, No. 3,
Greeivleuf alley, or to the'oflice of this Gazette,
iha'i r- ccivc the abuv- reward.
All njrions are forbid harboring said girl, as
they will,be dealt wi*h as the law dire&s
MARY ANDERSON,
N. B. Snid Girl is from Ireland, and.has been i»
this country but a short time ; flie was le nt to the
wafrk-houfc for mifcondu&, where he was taken
f;ck and rcsv.oved to the ci-ty-fiofpit&l, from which
place Hie made her escape.
■ con
io be fold at Public Vendue,
To the hi|;heft bi'lder, at the ho life of Mr.
William Evans, the sign of the Indian
Queen, In the city of Baltimore, on the 25th
d:iy of OiSloher next; at 11 o'clock, A. M
A boil 1 seven thuufand acres of land,
property of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
lying between Reifler's-town arid \Veftminfter,
coAipnonly called Little Winchester, (the turn
pike road runs through a conlidara'ote part of
theft land; ) the tratTl .begins about 17 miles 1
from Baltimore, within a few hundred yards ;
cf f_i:l Uaifter's-tpwn, and extends to the dif- ,
tance of Jbout twenty-three miles from Balfi- '
more, arvd lies on t*he main falls of Patapfico |
river, fro in three to four miles thereon. Will :
he fold Jn tracts of one hundred and fifty to
three hundred acre. There is a large propor
tion of ineadow am*! wood laud on each tra&,
foitie of them highly improved, with excellent
buildings and fine gr«\fs.
At so
A of seven hundred acres of
l md, called Clover Farms, within five miles of
Dladexiftiurg, esteemed very good for Grass. 1
Richard Ponfonhy.of Blidenlburgh, will (hew
this land to any person inclined to purchase.
also,
A tract of land ®f about three hun
dred and thirty acres, within about two miles
and a half o the President's house in tin; Fede
ral City. ,It is nearly all wood land, and a fine ;
high profpeil, from which may be fcen the
city of Waihingtou, Bladenlburgh, Alexandria
and a part of George-town, and many miles
down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard Ponfon- I
by, of Bladenfburg, will also If.cw this land. j
A liberal credit w ill be given for the greats II |
part of the purchase money, ihe terms will
be made known on the day ef sale.
May 8 warn
A Just Received,
From Batavia (via Providence)
a few Boxes of Spices, consisting of
Nutmegs, Cloves ana wace
For sale by
mLUNC-S &* FRANCIS, ,
Penn- street.
May 30 d(f
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 319, High-Sireet.
GEORGE DAVIS,
BEING buiied for some time past in prepara
tions for removing into his profent house, has
been und<jrthenecellityof poftpi'ninguntil this day
infortniig the gentlemen ofthe Bar generally thro'
the y«itod States, that his spring importation of
law bocks is now arranged and ready for tale, on
termsthuf he trails will entitle him to the like pre
freeucc he has experienced for leveral years pail.
Catalogues, combining the most varied collec
tion ever imported i<ito this country, are printed
and will be delivered on application-
June »7. law 6w
jL 1
City Commijfioners' Office,
Jwe 11, 1797.
IN purfuan'ce of an ordinance from the feleift
and common eouncils, palled theaid day of
May lall, appointing the city cotiimiOioncrs,
and prefcrihing tht ir duties, feiftion 9th,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
is divided into five diftrifls,
each to be under the fuperintendance of one of
the city commifficners, whoisto be individually
relpa'ifihle for the cleanlinef. of the fame, and
are .'^follow.
DriftrLil No. t. From the south fide of Ce
dar-ftrret, to the north fide of Spruce-street, un
derthe fuperistendence of Nathan Boys.
a. From the north fulr of Spruce-street, to
the north fide of Walnut-Tlrea, under the fuper
intendrnce of Hugh Roberts.
3. From the north fide of Walnut to the south
fide {f High-street, under the superintendence ot
Joseph Claypoole.
4. From the north fide of High-street, to the
north fid* of Mulberry street, under the super
intendence of William Moulder. ,
5. From the north fide of Mulberry street to
the north fide of Vine-flreet, under the super
intendence of Nicholas Hicks.
The cleaningof High-street to be in common.
A ftatcd meeting of tht city comraifiion
ers is held at the Old Court House,, in High
ftreet, every Tuesday evening at 5 o'clock
July n. eoim
Stands for Draymen, &V.
In furjuanct of an Ordinance from tbeSelefl and
Common Councils, tearing date the ila pay of
April, 1797, providing for the appointment of
City Commifjioners, Ijc. Heel, the tstb.
r 3 I HE following places are fixed upon by the
X said City Commifiioners for Stands for
Driymen and their Horses.
In Vine-street, eastward of Front-street, on
both fides.
SaiTafcas, High, Chefnut and Walnut-fttreets,
eastward ol Frorit-ftreet, 011 the no.-th fide only.
Mulberry-ftrcet, south fide from Front to
Third-street.
Front-ftrcat, east fide from Vine-street to
Elfrith's alley.
Front-street, from opposite to Black Horse al
ley to Hamilton's stores,' east fide.
Water-street, weft fide from the north end of
Stumper's or Moore's stores to Pine-street.
Penn-ftreet from Pine to Ce-Jar-ftreet, weft
fide.
Drawbridge, north fide, east of Front-street.
Spruce, Pine and South llreets, eaftofFroat
Hreet, south l'de.
Dock-street, between Walnut-street and the
flag Hone croflings, east fide, opposite George
Orklev's.
Seeond-ftreet, between Saflafras and Vine
streets, weft fide.
Fifth-ftreet, east fide from Chefnut to Mul
berry streets.
Saflafras-ftreet, from Third to Fourth-ftrcet,
«aftfide-
No drav or horse to stand within ten feet of
'"sfJWOS FOR HACKNEY COACHES.
Pine-street, north fide fi'om Fourth to Fifth
flreels. ,
Fifth-ftreet, Between Chefnut and Walnut
streets, well.
Branch-street, north fide, between Third and
Fourth streets.
July 14.' ww&fim
A Literary Treat.
JuJl pulll/heel, kandfemely printed an writing
paper, price I dollar,
A new edition of that poptilai; and eiltertaining .
work, entitled
FORESTERS, an American Tale ;
1 a fequcl to the biilory of John Bull, the Clo
thier—>ln a Tories of letters to a friend, witli the ad
dition of two letters, alluding to recent political
tfvinfai£\ions in America.
The following extrad) from the Clavis
fliews the principal tnatarc intr.iiduced:
John Bull, tjrt Kingdom of England
His Mother, the Church of EngUcd
His Wife, the Parliament
His Sifter Peg, the Church of Scotland
His Brother Pat* ick, Ireland
Lewis, the K/ngdom of France
His Mistress, the Old Con ft itu tion
Hit new Wife, the National
Lord Strut, the Kingdom of Spain
Nicholas Frog, the Dutch Republic
The Franks, the French Republic
The Forttfters, the United States of Ameri< a
Robert Lumber, New-Hampfliire
J«?'in Codline, Massachusetts r
Humphrey Plow (hare, Connedicut
Roger Carrier, Rhode Island
Peter Bull Frog, New-York
Julius Casfar, New-Jerfty
Wil)iam Broadbrim, Pennsylvania
Caffimar, Delaware i
Walter Pij>ewood, Virginia
His Grandfan, George Wafkington
Peter Pitch, North Carolina
Charles ludigo, south Carolina
George Tnjfty, Georgia
Ethan Greenwood, Vermont
Hunter Longknife, Kentucky ,
Black Cattle, Negro Slave*
Rats, Speculators / j
Mother Carey's Chickens, Jacobins I
& T his popular and entertaining satirical hifto- j 1
ry of Amorica is attributed to the Rev. Dr Bsl- ,
knap. It hasagrsat Chare of originality and a
botinds with genuine humour. It is continued 1
down to the present time, and chara£lerifcs those
late political tranfa&ions which have caused so
much uneasiness in America. x
Sold by H. and P. RICE, Bookseller, No. 16,
louth S«cond Street, and No. JO, Marke' (laeet.
June 36. §
LAW BOOKS,
Latest London and Dublin Editions.
H. & P. RICE, Booksellers,
No. 16, South Seconi, and No. 50, Market street,
HAVE just received by the Wte arrivals (rom
London and Dublin, their, spring importa
tion, confiding as a variety of the latest and most
approved 1 aw Books, which, added to those alrea
dy on hand, forms the most extensive collection ev
er offered for sale in this country. They theiefore
beg leave to notiije, that from the nature of their
conne&icnsin Dublin, they are enabled to felllrifh
editions (as they have hitherto at the very
lowed prices. The following are among the latest
publications.
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, 1 v_l«.
Peake's Cases at Nisi Prius ; Ridgeway's Reports
in the time of Lord Hardwicka ; Floyer's Prefers
Pradlice in the Ecctefiaftical Courts; Barton's
Tr<atif« on a Suit in Equity; Tidd'S PraiSice of
the Court of King's Bench in Personal A&ions, 1
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
on Ules ; modern Reports, 11 vols. London edi
tion.
H. and P. Ric» etpefl t# receive by the firft ar
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
Durnford and EaftV Reports, the xd part of Gil
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
new publications.
June 16.
The History of Pennsylvania,
By KOBERT PROUD,
Ig now in the press, and will be publilhed,
with all convenient expedition, by Zicha
riah Poulson, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-llreet,
Pliiladelphia, where fubferiptions will continue
to be received* and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to tbe printed propcfals, until the
work is ready for the fubferibera.
July tB. aawtf
Printed Calicoes.
JOHNMILLEI, Jun. & Co.
No. 8 Cbefnut-Street,
Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly alEorted, very low on.
(hort credit.
March 6. §
Richard and James Potter
HAVE removed their Counting House to No.
45, South Fifth-ftrcet. \ 1
r.uguft 1. w&f6t
I . ■ . . t ■
Lanca/ler, Harrifburgb Carlijle,
Shippenfburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
THE public are reqtiefted to take notice, that
the partnership which has fer some time fub
firted between Mathias Slough of LancaHcr, and
William Geer, is now diUblred ; but, not as M.
Slough infinuafesto the public without just cause ;
as will more fully apppar by a letter on the fub
jejfl from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 29th
December last. a recital of which is not now deem
ed neceflary. Any gentleman who wifties to be
more circumftintially informed of the merits of
this business, by applying to W. Geer may have
the perufai «f M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfectly juftifiabie in attaching him
felf to any other person in the profeeution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
public were pleased to confer on the firft effort in
this bufmefs, Vf'illiam Geer, in conjundion with
Messrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is'determined
to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention anddifpatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can poflibly exert.
The abote company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horses, and cv«ry appurtenance to
render the paftage fafe and commodious, inform
thof« wnu wilb to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg,
Carlisle and Shippenfburg. The fare as hitherto
eftabliihed. ■
For the further accommodation ot the public,
a Stage will start every Wednesday from the house
of Samuel Elder, ir Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
and return from theuce and arrive at Hairifburg
every • Saturday, so that paflcngers destined for
Lascafteror Philadelphia, may proceed Mon-
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster, Jan. 27, 1797.
N. This Line of Stages ftartd from the
house of William\Ferrac, in Lancafllcr, on every
Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
ceeding to the weft ward; And from the house of
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg every Wednes
day morning, on tlie fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns
from thence on every Thursday: performing the |
fame routine daily at in tour from Philadel- j
phia. mwf j
City of VVadiington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For: t'le Improvement f, f '^l'eJerul City.
A rar.gnificerstdwelling-houfe 10,000 dollars,
ta Jh jOjooOy are 000
1 ditto 15,000 & 15,00 a 40,u0e
1 ditto 15,000 & calh 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & cafli »0,000
1 ditto 5,»oo St cath 5,000 jo.'ooo
1 ditto j,OOO 3c cart; s,oui) io,aoo
I caHi prize of ro,ooo
* 5,000 each, are 10,000
%<to. ' l,oo» - ' » ' • 10,000
In do. 500 - - 10,000
00 ik>. joo ■ - • 1 - ro,ooa
> 10 do. c,t - - 10,000
4-.0 do. - 10,000
1,000 do. 10, - 30,000
15,00.- 46. *0 - rj 9,000
PHjfes.
33,361 Blinks.
?o,oco Tickets, Dt>llari, 400,000
N. B. Tofivour thofewho may take a quan
tity o; Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the list drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but on 1 :
Aiil approved notes, feeuring payment in either
mor.ay or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be reieived for any number 11 #t lefsthan 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of
thepnvaitc buildings to be ertiled in the City of
Walhington—Two beautiful deligos are already
leleded for the entire fronts on two of the public
squares; from thefedrawings.itispropofed toereft
twoc-ntreand f oi»rcorner buildings as l"6on aspof
fible after this lottery is fold, and to convey thent,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the nunner described in the scheme for the Hotel
Lottety. A nett of five per cent, will
be made to defray she neceifary expenses of print
ing, Sic. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National Univerftty, to
be ertcled within the city of Walhington.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the paym«nt of the
Prizes, are h,'ul tiy the President and two Diredl
ortor the B»nk of CoUiwbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount of thelwttery.
sjmueL BLODG£T.
.5, Tieketsmay be had at tbc Bank of Colsr.i-1
bia j of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of, Peter
Gilman, Boston ; of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
and of Richard Well', Cooper's Ferry.
mwf
From the Otfrgo Herald.
CAUTION.
WHEREAS a combination of men in tM.
county have undertaken to enrich th«m
felve»,by fabricating titles to fundr/ valuable tra&«
of land, the piopertyof gentlemen living in New
York, Philadelphia, London and Paris, for which
tracts of lend large funis of money have been paid
to thofc fraudulent men, by innocent purthafers •
It is therefore just that public information should
be given, to the end, that the injured may foekre
drefs while the men have property, and are to be
found. Those who have been discovered are Tru
man Harrifon, Joseph Witcomb, said now to re
side in the county of Saratoga ; Thomas Kelly and
several others who go under fictitious names. It is
supposed that the binds offered fcr sale on those fa
bricated titles, are at least worth fifty thousand'
doliars. Such as we have a<stual knowledge of are
as follows : Lots No. II and 12, Otfego patent,
thousand acres each, the a<9ua! property of William
Pellwyn, now of London ; lots No. 58 and 64,
fame patent, thousand acres each, the property of
Mr. C'haumont, now of Paris, and James Averill
and other., ol this Stmte. There is some grounds
to fuppofc that the lands of Richard Wclis and
Charles Wharton, of Philadelphia, are under their
management.—The Printers will do well to give
this a place in their papers, as well to caution the
public against purchasing thofc lands, as also to de
prive those men in future from imposing on indivi
duafs, which their education and address have en
abled them to do heretofore. Witcomb has been
a Ihopkceper of some note in this eountry.
The following affidavits will fit in a clear point
of view the wick.dnefs of those men,which when
the public have prrufed, will induee them to ex
cufc the interference of Wm. COOPER.
Otfego, July 28th, 1757.
I Thomas Kelly, of the County of Otfego, hav
ing been led into an error, by John Witcomb and
Truman Harrifon, of the fame County, to sign a
deed to them, for lot No. 58, Otfego patent, svhich
was the property of William I ■ Franklin now, Mr.
Chamont's and others ; and further the said Joseph
and Truman did pcrfuade me to do this against my
inclination, which was made out on the icth day
of November, 1793, or set back two years so as
to bring it to that time ; and further the name of
Pardon Starks to that deed was a fictitious name,
there being no inch perlon there. To this I make
voluntary oath. i , THOMAS KELLY.
19th July, T 797.
On the 19th July, *797» rtme perfona'.ly before
me, Thonnas Kelly, the fiflfcriber to the above af
fidavit, and made folcran OfUi f hut it contains noth
ing but the- truth.
ELftttl PHIKNEY, Justice of the Peace.
On the 18th July, 1797, came before me Jacob
Kibby, a person by ttie well ki:own and worthy of
good credit, who on his fnlemn oath did fay, that
two of the parties abovementioned did make ap
plication to .him this deponent, funic time in the
winter of 1796, to make them a deed for two thou
sand acrts of land in the Otego patent, and pro
mised this deponent a share of the profits, on the
sale of said lands, for his so doing ; andth it they
made application several times for the fame purpo e,
which fsrviegs this deponent as often reftifed, de
claring to them that he had no right to lands, and
coulddo no such thing ; which daring attempt 011
this deponent's integrity he had related among his
friends several times, previous to making this affi
davit. JACOB KIBBEY.
Sworn before mc, ' . '
ELIHb PHINNEY, Justice of the Peace.
Aug. 3. iaw4w.
Thirty Dollars Reward.
ELOPED from the service artke fubferiber,
on the 19th inflant, a negro man by the
of DICK, about years of age,
and five feet nine or ten inches high ; hy trade
a carpenter, and is a very lively brisk woik
man. His countenance 13 very good —-When
spoken to, he converses with ease and confi
dence, and is pretty frgacious. I purchased
the said fellow of Mr.Dubney Minor, in whose
name he Iras been advertised in the Richmond
newspapers. During hie Thll runaway trip (last
fummerj he was employed a considerable length
of time, by fouie person near Dumfriis, from
which circumdance, Iccnjedture, he h;> ;aken
another riotheni route. I forewarm all perfous
from giving liim employment, of any kind
whatever, and maftersof veflelsand others, from
carrying him out of this state. The above re
ward will be given if he is taken within forty
miles of this city; and an additional l'um, in
proportion to the diltance he may be brought,
or the troublf and expence the apprehender may
be at, in bringing him to this place.
AUG; DAVIS.
N. B. His apparel Was of the usual negro kind,
biithe had more cloaths than is cuflomary for
them to po/Tefs.
AD.
Richmond, June 11, 1797*
\Vill he Landed,
! Ffom onboard the ihip A&ive, Capt.Blair,from
Hanv'urgh,
20 baks white Rtiflia clean Hemp
a cafkb Clover Sera
For Sale by
Thomas Herman Laffir,
North Fifth (Ireet, No. 34.
Tune i,
William Blackburn,
LOTTERY ah» BROKER'S OFFICE
No. 64 fenth Second l>rect.
TICKETS in the Canal I.otter 7; No. 11, which
commenced drawing the 29th May, I f OR
SALE. The price of tickets will rife in propor
tion as the driwiqg advances, particularly on ac
count ©f the five firft drawn tickets, prize* of
four thousand dollatcs each, on the last day of
dfawing.
Check Books kept for examination
ii:g, in the Canal, No. City of Washington, No.
4, and Paterfon Lotteries.
Alfo r tickets for sale in the Schuylkill bridge and
Perk:omen Bridge lotteries, which will begin
drawing in the course of the summer.
The business of a Broker in all kinds of Stock,
Bills, Notes, Lands, &c- &c. tranfa&ed witty the
ufmoft attention.
June 2 tu^f
Erfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co. /-
No 40 South Second street,
[Price 31 Cents]
A View of the Canfes and Consequen
ces of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Ersicine.
May is y §
STATE TRIALS.
Sold by W. Young, Bookseller, No. 51, South Se
cond-flfeet,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
CONtaining the impeachment, trial, and actjuife
al of Francis Hopkinfon, Judge of the Court of
Admiralty, and John Nichollon, Comptroller Gen
eral—ln one large *8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, 3
dollars.
W. Young has for Tale, a general aflbrtmentof
Books. Also, Stationary, retail and by the pack
age, well allotted, and entitled to the drawback if
axparted. July 7 —*
r HE SUBSCRIBER having been appointed by
the Envoy Lxtraordinat v and Minilier Pleni
potentiary ol his Britannic Majefly, General Agent
ioraftifting Briiifb creditors, and such particular a
gents a* they may specially authorise, in profecutiag
their claims before the commiflionersfor carrying in
to effctt the sixth article of the Treaty of Amity, Com
merce and Navigation between his Britannic MajeJly and
the United States of America, hereby gives notice that
he has opened his office at his house the south east
corner of Chefmit and fifth Greets, Philadelphia,
where he is ready to receive all claims or infiru&ions
for claims with the vouchers and documents thereof,
for the purpose oi bringing forward th£ fame agree
ably so the rules and orders which the board may
think proper to prescribe.
And aa it will be for the interest of all concerned,
that the several claims be so dated, and support
ed, as to prevent the delay which would arile frOra
the necelfityof obtaining further information, or ad
ditional materials,from periods residing at a diltance,
the general agent thinks it his duty to add, (for the
direction chiefly of those, who, not having employ
ed particular agents, may leave the prosecution of
their claims to his charge and Management) that all
such claims ought in particular to set forth—
lft. The proper defcripiion and fitnation cf the
creditor or claimant, end original debtor, refpeft
ivcly.
ad. The date andnature of the original contrail or
debt. j
3d. When, in what manner, and to what extent,
the creditor or claimant wis prevented or impeded,
by the provision, operation or deleft of law, the
clecilionsand pra&ice of courts, or reflraint of exe
cution, from recovering payment of the debt in
question*
4th The loss and damage incurred or sustained,
in confcquence of such impediments, whether the
fame may havN arisen from the infolveney, change of
situation, or death of the debtor, the loss 6( legal
remedy from lapse of time? or othercaufes impairing
the value and (ecurity of the debt, which would not
have so operated if such impediments had notexiiled.
Andsih. The particular grounds and reasons on
which the claimant maintains, in the terms of the
treaty, that M by the ordinary course of judicial pro
ings, the creditor cannot now obtain and a£lual'.y
have and receive full and adequate co«npcofation M lor
the loifes and dsroages lo fufiaiued.
The general agent thinks it his duty further to fug
gefl that the several claims ought to be accompanied
and supported by the affidavits of the claimants duly
sworn and regularly attested, both as to the exigence
of the Hebts claimed, and such other circumstances
as may be within their own knowledge refpe&ively.
And v wherever the claimants in Gating Ibe nature of
their evidence (-which must in every instance be the
bed of which the cafe is capable) have occafioa to
refer to the testimony of witnesses, it will be proper
to apprifothe general agent of the names and places
of residence of such witneflesand the fa&»to be efta
bliihed by their teflimooy.
Wm. Moore Smith.
Philadelphia, June Bfh, 1797.. d.
For Sale,
That ivell known place, called If andkorift's
FIHY,
ON Nefhaminy creek, 18 miles fronft Phila
ladeiphia, on the New York post road,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
premifesarea large two story ftsne house occu
pied asatvern, and agoodoneftory stone kit
chen, a large frame stable with a good threshing
floor, and some out buildings—also a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
this place is a moll elegant situation fora gentle
man's feat, commanding a view of the Nefham
iriy t6 its junction wfih the Delaware, and thence
across to the Jersey fliore. It has the privilege
of one half the toll-received from the bridge.
f terms apply to the Sufofcriber,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
54. i;awtf.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
BoardipgSchool for young Ladies.
MltS. GROOMBRIDGE with much pleaf
ureand refpeft, returns her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
file has received during four years refrdence is
Philadelphia ; and azures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
il-hool, she has made a superior arrangement for
the mor; convenient accommodation of her
fCholars. : —Every -branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groombridge and matters excelling in their
refpeiJlive profeflions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797. tfimftf
The fituatian is perfectly healthy ; and made
more agreeable by an cxtenfive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the house.
Jufl Published,
And to be hid of MtlTrs. Dofofon, Campbell,Rice,
Gary, and the other pricipal Bookseller* in the
city,price one dollar, fwinty-five cents, ip boards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, it. d.
June 2Q. \6t
No. 183.
Dtfiriil of Pennfyluama, to iltii :
l. s. "R E IT HEMIiMBEH£D, that on the
_J fifteenth day oT June, in the t-wentv
»ril year of the Independence of the United
States of A mer'ca, J,\Mts Woodhousf, of
•the laid diftria, hath deposited in thij office the
title of a book, the right wherepf he claims as
author, in the words following, to wit :
" The Young Chemist's Pocket Companion,
" being a Del'cripticn of a Portable Labaratory,
" containing a Pnitofophical apparatus, and a
" great number of Chemical Agents, by which
" any pcrfor. may perform an endless variety of
" arr.ufingind inftrufling Experiments, design
" id for the uie of ladies ants gentlemen, and
" intended to promote the cultivation of the
" Science of Chemistry in the United States of
" America. By [AMES WocfiHOOsß, M. E>.
" of Chemistry, in the Univerfitv of
" Pennfytvania. President of the Chemical So
" ciety of Philadelphia, &c.
" At present every th;ng that is not denomi
" nated Chemistry, is but a Imall part of a fyf
" tem of natural knowledge.
Prirfil* on Jir "
In conformity to the afl of the Congress of the
United States, intituled, " An ail for the encour
agement of Learning, by fit-curing the copies of
maps, charts, and books to the authors and pro
prietors of furh copies, during the times there
in mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL, Clerk of the
Diftrid) of Pennsylvania.
J"'v 18- «jjjt—ws tf
No. I 88.
Diflr'lß of Pennfyluama, to <wit :
(L. s.) R E ,t REMEMBERED, that on the
-D twenty sixth day of July, ia the twen
ty second year of the independence of the United
States of America, John FenNo, of the said dif
tr.'<f,hath deposited in this office the title ofabouk,
the right whereof h . claims as proprietor, in the
words following, t-o wit :
" Ohfervations on certai* documents contained
" in No. V. and VI. of " The Hittory of the Unit
" ed States for the year 1796," in v. Jiich tha charge
" of speculation, againil Alexander Hamilton, tate
" Secretary of the Treasury, is fully, refuted
" Written byhjmf«if "
In conformity to ?he a& of the Congrcfs of the
Ucited Statei, entituled, "An aft for the encour
agement of learning, by feeuring the copies of
maps, chartsand books to the authors anc? propri
etors of such copies, during tha timet therein men
tioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk of the Ll jlriil oj Pennfilvania,
July -7• " w.+w
Public Notice is hereby given,
at June term, 1797, a petition waa
presented to the Court of Common Fleasj
held at York Town, in the State of Pennsylva
nia, at the instance ef James Short, praying
the Court to supply a loft deed made by a cer
tain Andrew Hlckenluber, to Hugh Morrifon,
James Morrifon, and John Sample, executors
to Hans Morrifon, deceased, for fix hundred
——— aeres of Land, Ctuate in Menallen
townlhip, in the county of York .• —All per
sons who have any objections to make to th* eb
jetil of the ftid petition are desired to attir.d
the Court Heufe, in the town of York, on the
sth day of September next, otherwise the loft
deed will be supplied.
JOHN EDIE, Clerk.
July**- . eetSs
30 Dollars Reward.
RAN away on Saturday last, two indented Ser
vants, Gifford Dally, a mulat to boy, about 17
years of age, a fiim light bunt active fallow, cart
r<ad and write,five feet seven or eight inches high,
has a heavy countenance ; had on a fuftian coatee
and trowfers, a high crooned hat, fine flioes &c.
Allan Hellons, a black man, about, 24 years of
age, five feet seven or eight inches high, a thick set
clutnly built fellew, particularly about the breech;
had on a sailor's blue jacket lined with swanskin,
dark striped vest, fuftian trowfers, high crowned
hat, coarse {hoes, &c.; each of them had several
Ihirts and several other cloathes with them. Thir
ty Dollars wiil be paid for the runaways, or 15 dol
lars for each, and reasonable charges, oh delivering
them at No. 54, North Third-street.
The black fellow is about a year from I-ewi*
Town, in the County of Sussex, state of Dela
ware, and has taken the boy with him.
J"'y \ ■ mtn&f.^w
To be SOLD or RENTED,
A LARGE 3 Story Brick House, on the
South firfe .of Filbert street, between
Eighth and Ninth, lately occupied as the Sur
veyor General's Office.
The Building is 36 feet front and 35 feet de«p,
the lot lie feet deep, with the privilege of a nine
feet wide Alley extending the whole length-os
the lot, to a thirty feet wide Court for Carriages
to turn in. The Houft is not plastered, and
may be turned either into one, or two dwelling
Houses. It is suitable for a large Ma»ufai£lory,
or would make a good Tavern. Immediai*
possession will be given.
Apply to No. hi, Chefnut-Street.
Ang.*i. cod4t.
Muftcal lnjirument Manufaflory,
A'o. 167, Arch-Street.
HARPER, harpsichord, grand, portable graad,
fidvboard, pier table and fquarc piano Vorfe
male, r frora Lorfdon, returns th asks to his friends
and the public, for their liberal encouragement,
and hopes that by his assiduity and atrcntit n to ev
ery branch of his bufmefs, to merit a continuance
of their fa vors. Piano fertcs made on th(? newest
and moll approved plans, with pedal;, patent,
fwelli and French harp flop, v.hfch heflattei*
himfcif will i»e found on trial by unprejudiced
judges, to be equal if Dot superior to any import
ed, and twenty per cent cheaper. Any ir.tfru
rqsnt purchased of himj if isot approved of ia
twelve months, he will exchange.
N. B. All kinds of Mxf instruments made,
uned, and repoiircc, wilh the gfeatoft accuracy ,
dil'patch, and on the molt real'onabie term-, 1,1
readymoney only.
Second h«nd l'l.fno Fortes taken in, exchange,.
May ic. (kirn.
i Forty Dollars Retvard.'
RAN away fnim the- i'ubfi rib. r 1111 the fee
ond day of this inll. July, a Mulatto Man,
named Will Bowzer, about forty years of age,
five feet seven or eight inches high, rather
chunky made j had cn when he went avvav, a
drab colored cloth coat, striped purple, trowfers
and jaqket. It is pi übable he will change /lis
cloathes, as he took a number with him. The
fai,l fellow formerly belonged to Mr.' Charles
Blake of this place; and it is expeiled fehas
made towards Jones's Neck, in the Deb wars
State Apprehending the inid fd- •
low, and , fecming him so that I can get him a.
gain, shall receive the above rewan: if tnk 11
ott of the county, and Twenty Dollars if in
the county, and all roafonable charges if bro't
home.
JESSE REED,
Queen Ana's County, Maryland.
July 3.