of the IHtUIfOH §ytUttS? & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Kcmber 1362.3 . THURSDAY EVENING, JANUARY 19, 1797. ' [VOLUME XI.
L O S T,
On the Road between this city and Baltimore,
A black leather POCKET-BOOK,
Containing sundry papers valuable only to the owner,
alio between three and four hundred dollars. VV noever
has found the fame, and will leave it at theofEke of
the editor No 119 Chefnut street, with the coatents,
particularly the papers, Dull be handsomely rewarded,
■and no queftionsafked.
January 17.
For Sale,
Two Convenient BRICK HOUSES,
Three stories high, 16 feet front, and 43 feet deep
each, and adjoining; (ituated on the east fide of l'ront,
lietvveen Race and Vine-streets ; Nos. 161 and 163.
1 hey will be fold on very reasonable terms, either
ieparately or together. Apply to
JOHN MILLER, jun. & CO.
January 13 d»w
. A CARD.
If Monjieur G. H. SoyriE,
Vfho left Bordeaux the joth June last, and arrived
at Boftoa tbout the middle of Aaguft, in the schooner
Jane, is in Philadelphia, he is requested to call on
Jofrph Anthony & Co. No. 5, Chefnut-flreet. who
will give him feme information of importance.
December 14, 1796. $
WANTED,
A MECHANIC, to eredl Spinning and Weaving
Machines by water, such as art used at my manufac
tory —Apply to JAMES DAVENPOK r,
No. 401, North Front-street.
N. B. None need apply but a complete mechanic,
and a man of {lability.
Globe Milt, r-eeemker 29 1796. §
Cheap French China.
THE fubferibers finding it impoffibie to iupply their
ftere with any more China from France, the prices
being too immoderate in the rnanufa&eries, give no
tice that they will fell A prime Colt the remaining
iteck on hand, consisting of
Delfert Setts,
Tea-Table Setts
Separate Cup 6 and Saucers
OrotJpes and Figures
' Alabaster Vases
Looking GlafTes, in gilt frames,
Befidts India Japan'd Toilet Delks, Chairs, Tables
nad Quadrille 80xe... PASQUIEK & Co.
No; 91, South Seoond-ftreet.
December sth.
FOR SALE,
The fact-failing schooner ORION;
Seventy tons burthen ; fifteen months
■ 1 i cr frame is of the bed ©f white
oak : she i-> .1 iaithful built vessel, handsomely finished off
and well found in every particular ; is ready to receive a
«argo on board, an<J can be put to sea without any ex
pence on her hull, fails or rigging : Ihe ftowsfix hundred
barrels; lias a handsome cabin and steerage, and a half
deck which will flow from feventy-five to eigjuy barrels ;
has been newly caulked, graved and painted. For terms
apply to BENJAMIN RHODES,
At N6 $ o, corner of Market PiJth-ftrects,
Or to the on board said schooner at Mcffrs.
Willis and Yardfley's wharf, adjoining Chefnut-ftreet
Wharl\ where there is for sale
Excellent pickled Salmon in barrels,
the best of American Mess Beef, and some very excellent
Boston manufactured Chocolate.
December z6 $
For Sligo and Killibegs,
j The American Ship Nancy,
Cuthbert Riggs, mailer.
VVill fail with all convenient speed. For
freight or pafiage apply to
William Bell;
Who has for sale,
4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well alTorted
3 Balis liifh Flannels, and j boxes Linens
sj Pipes Brandy
Madeira Wine ; Indigo. Russia Matts,
Also,
A few barrels Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
1 QATMEAL, &c.
November u, 1796, mwftf
FOK sale,
''C 7 HE SHIP MART,
SAMUEL PARKER, Master,
wo hundred tons burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MARY is not fold in a few days, ihe will take
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
O(Sober 31. d
For Sale, or Charter,
SFliLrj, The Ship DIANA,
%rj Samuel Pile, Mailer,'
Burthen 205 47,-95 «en» regifler, built in
Philadelphia in the year 1794, of live oak
and red cetlar, and was Iheathed 13 months ago, (he
has jufthad a compleat out-fit, and may be lent to sea
fct a very trifling expence.
For terms apply to __
Philip Nicklifi iff Co.
trhc have for file on bvard said vs/fel,
47 calks of fine yellow paint.
9 boxes and 14 bundles of writing flatej.
1 bo* ink (lands and note prefles.
14 bales of fail eanvafj.
And on hand,
Imperial }
Hyson, and, £ TEAS.
Souchong J
40,000 pieces Nankeens of the ftrft quality,
19 tubs Quicksilver.
t chests BandanßO handkerchiefs.
A few chjfls Manchester goodswell alTorted in Cor
duroys; thicksets, Ginghams, Muflintts, Dimities, &c.
3 boxes black sewing silk.
j&o crates Queens ware well aflorted.
10 tors sheet lead.
Nails aflorted, flat and (harp points.
London Particular,- Madeira Wine in pipes
Lotion Market, f an( j hogsheads.
New-York Market, J
40 pipes and 10 hoglkeads Tenerifie wine.
8 tierces Smkc Root,
450 log- Mahogaitf.
Nov 7.
For Sale,
By J. WARDER, PARKER ■ Co.
An Invoice of Cordage,
Confiding of different sizes, from 12 inch cables down
to rope of 2 inches, Of different lengths: Imported in
the ship Swift, from Hull, aad eotitled to drawback.
Sept. 27. dtf
FOR SALE,
About 1,600 acres of Land,
WELL situated, laying on and between Mar(h
and Beech Creeks, Mifflin county, Pennsylvania, in
four separate Patents. For terms ot sale apply to
Wm. Blackburn,
No. 64, SsUth
Oflober 31. mwftf
NOTICE.
THE Sales of LANDS of the United States, in the
Norrh-Weftern Territory, heretofore adyertifed
in the several public papers, will commence tkis even
ing, at the City Tavern to be continued from day
to day, 'till the tenth of February next, if not sooner
fold.
January 4 §
Washington Lottery.
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be purchased or
exchanged for prizes, at the Office, No. 147, Chrfhut
ftreet, where a corredt Numerical Book is kept for pubii-:
infpe&ion. Also Canal Lottery Tickets for sale ©r ex
changed for prizes diawn in the Washington Lottery, of
which the 54th and /sth days returns are received
0T T*.j Business of a Broker carried on as ulual.
A SHARE in the NEW THEATRE to be fold
on reasonable terms.
January 12. ttstf
Women's Cloaks.
•'
GEORGE DOBSON,
No. 25, South Third-street,
Has just reeeived, per Eagle, Capt. Fofdick, via Lon
don, atn assortment of
Scarlet "\
Drab (■ Cloaks trimmed with fur and
Purple and ( ermine.
Ptarl J
December 15. •§
Public Notice,
IS HEREBY &IVEN, that I have applied to the
judges of the Supreme Court of this slate, to supply the
defe& in my Title to a lot/of ground, situate on the Weft
fide of Fourth-flreet, containing in breadth 20 feet, and
in length 56 feet, bounded Northward and Westward, by
ground of the fubferiber, Southward by ground of Edward
Shippen, and Eastward by Fourth-ilreet, occafloncd by
the loss of a-deed from Timothy Harrington, John Lewis
and James Walton, by their attorney Robert Mollyneux.
—All perfo»6 concernsd, are required to appear before
two of the justices of the said court, at the house of
Thomas M'Kean, esq. the Chief JalMce of the, ft ate, on
the 30th inft. at 10 o'clock in the forenoon, to make their
answer to the bill of the fubferiber, filed in the office ©f
Edward Burd, esq. Prothonotary of the lu'id court.
WILLIAM SHIPPEN, jun.
Philadelphia, January 6tli, 1797. dt3oth
The Elephant,
Now exhibited, was bought for Ten Tkoufaod
Dollar..
He is 3 years old, 6 feet high, growing to li feet.
He eats 150 weight 4-day, and drinks a barrel of
water ; he has drank some days forty bottles of perter,
drawing the corks with hn trunk.
He is perfectly irioffenfive; travels loose, at the
rate of five miles an hf>ur, and is the grcateft curiosity
ever hrought to this Contitent.
He is to be seen 'till the 15th of January, in
Markel-llreet between Thiid and Fourtfy-ftrcets, at
a quarter of a dollar, that every one may fee him—
after which tiioe the former piice of half a dollar will
be relumed.
He will leave Philadelphia as soon as the weather
will permit.
December 31 d
Paterlon Lottery.
FOR raifmg fix thousand fix hundred and sixty-seven
dollars and fifty cents, by a dedu<£lion of fifteen per
cent from the priz'es, and not two blanks to a priza. viz
I Prize of 5000 dollars is dollars 5000
I 1000 1000
t JOO JOO
5 100 ioco
10 100 , 1000
99 SO 49J°
»oo 2.5 5 003
iooo la ao.ooo
5 Last drawn numbers of rooo dollars each, jooo
1332 Prizes. 44,450
4018 Blanks.
6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44,45°
By order of the Directors of the Society for ellablilh
mg Ufeful Manufactures, the fupermt-endants of the Patj
eribn Lottery havs requested the Managers to offer the
foregoing Suheme 'to the public, and have dire&ed them
to refund the money to those perlons who have purchased
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
n this Lottery.
The lottery has a&ually commenced drawing, and will
continue until finilhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
may be seen at the office of Blackburn, No. 64
south Second street, who will give information where tick
ets may b« procured.
Dated this 17th day of Tune, 1796.
y. N- GUMMING, ~)
JACOB R. HARDENS ERG, Managers.
JONATHAN RHEA, )
STATE OF THE WHEEL.
1 Prize of 5000 ... jooo
I iooo ... 1000
X 500 ... 500
5 aoo i Iboo
10 ico - - • - 2000
90 50 4500
165 15 ' --- 412,5
The five last driwn tickets, iooo each, jooo
Being all the valuable prizes, besides a full propar
tion of the 10 dollars.
As the Lottery is considerably more than one Wiird
drawn, the value of the undrawn tickets is great
'ly increased, and it is worth the notice of those
who hold tickets m the old scheme, that they can ex
change t>heir tfckcts for thole in the above, if they ap
ly fooa, ani at a moderate advance considering the
now real value of an undrawn ticket.
The tickets be*ng nearly all fold, the drawing in
future wilhbe oftener, and the Lottery soon finilhed.
November 12. mwt
Particular TenerifFe Wine.
JO Quirter-caflcs Particular Teneriffe WINE,
Of a superior quality,
For Sale by
A. Mar pie iff Israel W. Morris,
No. 60, Dock-street.
January la % tts6
Elegant Bruflels & Turkey Carpeting,
For sale by George Dobfon, No. 1 j,South Third-street.
December ij. . Htf
Boarding and Lodging
May be had at No. 62, Penn-ftreet, in a creditablc
family
January 9
SALT P E T R E.
A large quantity of Double-Refined Salt Petre for
sale at No. aj, South ThirtWhreet.
November j.
Imported from Loudon iff Liverpool,
EARTHEN WARE, in crates and hog(he*ds, well
aflorted
Wine Bottles in hampers
Window Glass of all sizes
Two cales of stationary
One cheftof yellow Jesuits Bark
Two cases of Roll Arnotta
A small consignment of Rose Blanketi, Flannels,
Baizes, Broad-cloths, Coatings, Plains
Paints of various colors.
Baiket f|lt in hoglheads.
Also on hand,
Madeira wine, very old, in pipes, hoglheads and
quarter calks
Holland gin in pipes, firft quality
Anchors of different flzes
A few trunks of ladies French shoes alTorted
Silk nankeen, &c.
Likewise an afloi'tment of Dutch goods, consisting of
Ofnaberfs, ticklenbergs, bed-ticks, stripes, checks.
Morlaix linen, platillai, ravens duck, Britannias, &c.
And fur faje by tie package only by
Thomas Iff John Kef land.
Walnut-Qreet Wharf.
Nov. Vj. eotf
Philadelphia and Lancaster 'I'urnpike
Company,
January 6, 1797.
At a meeting of the President and Managers, a di
vidend of five dollars per fliare, was declared for the
last half year, which will be paid to the Stockholders,
or tkeir reprefcntative. any time after the aift »[ this
month.
TENCH FRANCIS, Treasurer.
Jan. 6. raw4w.
Frejh Garden, Grass and Flower-Seeds,
Roots, iffc. iffc.
This day laadirg from the ship Eagle, captain Fofdick,
from London,
And FOR SALE by
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE,
Comer cf Walnut and Second-streets,
A mojl capital and txtenfivc AJfortment of
GARDEN, GRASS and FLOWER-SEEDS,
ROOTS, &c. See.
Among which are,
Five kind® A fp»r a gusj Three kiad» CretTea
Four Berecokj Twelve Onion
Twenty-five Beans! Thirteen Radish
Six Beets! Fifteen Turnip
Kltve* Brocolij Fiftceia Peas
Twenty-fix Cabbage) Six Savoy
Six Carrot. Four Parsnip
Three Cauliuower' Twenty-three Melon
Fivcl' Celery' Twenty-one Lettuce
len Cucumber;
Common and lemon Thyfae
Curled leaf and ffrigged Parsley
Pot Marygold Pot Marjorum
Balm Thyme Mangel Wurtasel
Leek Kail Shallots
Rape Seei Rye Grafg Saint Foin Lucerne
Red and white Clover Timothy, &c. &c.
With a curious collccitLon of the most esteemed
FLOWER-SEEDS a»d ROOTS,
Being the most exteufive ever imported into this city. ,
The above are from a capital Seedfnwn in Londen, and
are warranted fteih and good.
Printed catalogues may be had by applying as above.
Dec. 17* + u §
In ordfr to comply with contract, I <will feU y for
approved bonds, on 3 equal annual payments f
A Square of LOTS,
' At the upper end of Fredericklburg, beginning op
posite to the'lower corner of Dodlor Wellford's, on
Caroline-flreet, and running up to the erofs street
leading to Fitzhugh's ferry, and from thence back to
Sophia-street. This square I have laid off" into 14 lets,
27 and an half feet froat, and us back, u on Caro
line-street, and u 011 Sophia-street. Nine of those
oh Carolint-ftrett I have leafed on an annual ground
rent ps 8 and 10 pounds, to the amount of 74 pounds,
and the vacant lots apuri-hafer could enhance the value
of by building small houses, which will as readily
pro««re teiants as pots or goards will Martins in the
i'priag, and yiel-o a greater profit in propoili.in to
their cost tkan large buildings. Those who incline
to purchase may know the terms by applying to
HENRY FITZHUGH.
Bell-Air, Dec. 8, 1796. 7thJ.d4W
THE SUBSCRIBER
WISHES to afeerlain, whether a certain EDWARD
NEVILL, by trade a Stone-Cutter, or Brick-Layer,,
who quitted Ireland ii 1783, Or 1754, and came into
this Country, ('tis funpafed to Philadelphia) about
four years tince, be living or dead. As this
genee'is of thehighefl importance, it will be thankful
ly received, by GEO. DAVIS,
No. 313, High-street
December 31. w&f im
Bank of Pennfylvani-a,
January 4, 1,797.
At a meeting of the Directors th : s day, a dividend of
sixteen dollars qn each Ihafs was declared for the last
6 months, which will fee paid to the Stockholders af
ter the 14th inft.
JONATHAN SMITH, Cashier.
J*n. 3. dtf.
Mrs. G RA T TA N
RefpeiSfully informs her friends, and the public in
general, that on Tuesday the lcthday of January,
Ihe proposes opening, at No. 39, North Sixtli
ftreet,
A Linen and Muslin Warehouse.
Book Muslins, from 6/3 to la/it per yard
Jaconet ditto, from 8/8 to 5/8 per yard
Striped ditto, from 7/10 to 10/10 per yard
Fine GofTaes
Tambour'd Book Muslins, from 137*9 to aI /*P er Y ar(^
India Muslin, from 11to 15/ per yard
Sheeting Muslin
Jaconet muslin Handkerchiefs, from 4/3 to 6/per hdkf.
Book muslin Handkerchiefs from 5/3 to iq/"6 p«r hdkf.
Muslin color'd and border'd Handkerchiefs
Dacca Handkerchiefs
TambeurM Cravats from iq/TS to u/il
Pocket Handkerchiefs
Cambric, from 11/3 to 16/3 per yard
Table Cloths]
Huckabuck T ©welling
Women's Cotton Hose, from 6y% to 13/"per paif
Dimity from sfio to 6fii
Men's Silk Hose
Tamboured muslin Handkerchiefs from ii/ii to 17,/ i
Irifli linens for Gentleirtn's Shirty from s/S to 2/7
And a variety of other articles.
N. B. Orders received for all kinds of ready made
Linen, Gentlemen's Shfrts, ruffled or plain, Cravats,
Pocket Handkerchiefs, See. &c.
Houlhold Linen, &c. &c.
A plain shirt, mack and mark'd, 3 1-2 dollars.
A full ruffled ditto, 4 dollars.
A plain fliirt, made ard mark'd, 5 dollars.
A full ruffled citto 6 dollars.
A plain fliirt ? made and marked, 5 1-3 dollars,
A full ruffled ditto J dollars.
A plain fliirt, made and mark'd, 6 dollars.
A full ruffled ditto 7 1-2.
A plain fliirt, made and mark'd, 6 i-a dollars.
A very fine ruffled ditto 8 dollars.
Linen included.
January 13. " $
A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRST & id proof,
Gin, of 4th proof, in pipes
Jamaiod Spirits,,4th proof, in Hhds
Old' Hock, in citise of 40 dozen each
Glass Tumbler», in pints and lwlf-pints
Window Glass, in boxes, of different sues
Ilazlenuts, in sacks
Whiting ♦
Copperas ( . ~ ,
White Lead C ln l hds
k Spaniib Brown J
For Sale by PETER BLIGHT.
January 4 . £
For Sale,
By George Defchamps, No. 91,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrel?
and half barrels
Ditto Herring and Mackarei.
Smonked Herring in barrels and kegs
Ditto Salmon, by the dozen or single one
Dry CcdfJfh, fiom one to fifty kentals
Fine and coarse Salt
Nova-Scotia and French Plaster of Paris, in the stone
and ground, for'manure and fiusco-work
December I. / Jtf
Wm. Holdernesse, No. 76,
HIGH-STREET,
Has received by the late arrivals,
A Well Selecled Assortment of
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
Haberdalhery Goods,
Which he will fell, wholesale and retail, on the very
lowest terms ;
Among ft <ivblch are
Some elegant 4-4 and 7-8 Chintzes and Cottons, new
patterns
Ditto Furniture ditto
Ditto Dimity
Tamboured, Book, and Jac«nct Mtaflins
Ditto in Gold and Silver %
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine
Mantuas of the firft quality
Silk and Cotton Hosiery
Umbrellas: of the firft quality, assorted
Irish Linens, very fine, and Table Linens
Marfei'lles a*id Cotton Counterpanes
Rose Blankets afforted-—&c. &c.
Odobfr 26. d
Clocks and Watches.
LESLIE AND PRICE,
No. 79, Market- street, Philadelphia,
HAVE IMPORTED, by the late arrivals from
London, i large assortment »f WARRANTED
IV,A •/ CHE S, esnlifting of horizontal, capp'd and
■jewel'd Gold Watches, with fecocds, of fnperior
workmanlhip and elegance ; also capp'd and jewel'd
and plain Gold Watches ; capp'd &jew£ll'd, capp'dk
seconds, day of the mouth, and plain Silver Watche6 ;
eight day & chamber Clocks; elegant French Clocks
with marble frames ; eight day and thirty ho«r, brass
works, &c.
Decembet 21, 1796* d2m
_ WM. HAT DON,
t)rawing-Mafter, from London,
Where he has fludied several years under one of
the mot eminent matters in that science, attends
young Ladies and Gentlemen at their refpeflive homes.
His terms are 6 dollars per month far attendance three
times per week. Likewise all kinds of srnamental
Painting, Flowers, Fruit, &c. taught 011 the above
terms. A line directed to W. H. left with the Editor
of ttys Gazette, will be immediately atteniiedjto.
J anuaryl3. ' eoaw
James M'Alpin, Taylor,
No. 3, South Fourlhjlrtct,
RETURNS his grateful acknowledgments to his
Friends and the Public for their liberal encouragement,
and begs leave to solicit a continuance of their favors.
He hais os> hand an extensive assortment of the
Mod Fajhimabte GOODS,
And of the belt quality, suitable for the season.
At this {hop Gentlemen can be furniftied withthe heft
materials, and have them made up in the neatest and most
Falhionable manner, and on the shortest notice. He wiH
thankfully receive any orders, and pay a prompt and
pnnftual to them.
November 10. wsNew Theatre.
On FRIDAY EVENING, January 10, '
Will be presented,
A Celebrated PLAY, in three a<£ls, interspersed with
songs, called
The Mountaineers.
Written by G. Colmati, jun.
OSavian, Mr. Moretan
Virolet, Mr. Fox
Kilmallock, Mr. Wa<~rcn
Roque, Mr. Wignill
Muleteers, | t 'P" rl g' P arltJ ' jr '
5 Mitcbefl, Mxcdonuld.
Lope Tocho, Mr. Francts
Pereqoillo, Master Warrell
Goatherds, I Meflrs: War,ell, Bliffett,
5 Dcdlor and Morgan.
Females, \ Mrs " H "rvey, mrs. Bailor,
. ) mifis Oldjield, &c.
Bulcaziu Muley (ill time) Mr. Cooper
Ganem, Mr. Warrell, jun.
.Lacha, Mr. Darlev t jun.
S a< 3i, Mr. Hariuosd
M«ors, Meflrs. Mitchell, 4cc
Zorayda, Mrs. Warrell
Floranthc, Mr*. Francis
Agues, Mrs. Oldmixon
The xd a<s* will conclude witn A SPANISH FAN
DANGO, coropefed by Mr. Francis.
The principal parts by Mr. J. Warrell, Sig. Doctor,
and Miss Melbourne.
To which will be added
A Celebrated FARCE, in one a&, (never performed
here) called
Seeing is Believing.
Sir Credule, Mr. Francis
Captain Nightshade, Mr. FJIt
Sceptic, Mr. Warren
Simon, Mr. Harivood
Porter, Mr. Darley, jun.
Miss Di, Mrs. Haritej
Kitty, Mrs. Francis
g? Box, One Dollar tweniy-five cents. Pit one D.llar,
And Gallery, half a dollar.
£5* Tickets to be had at H. & P. Rice's dook-ftore
No. jo High-ft*«et, and at the Office adjoining the
Theatre.
The Doors of the Theatre will open at y, and the
Curtain rife precisely at 6 o'clo«k.
Places for the Boxes to uc taken at the Office in the
front of the theatre, from lo till 2 o'clock, and from
19 till 4 on the days of performance.
Ladies and Gentlemen are requested to fend their
servants to keep places a quartw before 5 o'clock, and
te order them, as'feon as the company are featid, to
withdraw, as they cannot un any account be permit
ted to remain.
riVAT R'ES PUBLIC A !■
College-Hall.
Readings' and Recitations,
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining.
Mr. FENNELL
Refpeflfully informs the Public, that
THIS EVENING, Thursday, Jan. 19, at 7 o'clock,
Will be delivered,
( FIRST PART)
' The Prison Scene in the Vicar of Wakel'eld, Goldsmith
The equal dealings of Pr.vidence denaonftrated, do.
(secokd part)
Edwin and Emma, Mallet.
Lavinia, Thorn/en.
(third Part)
The Hermit, farnell.
0- On SATURDAY,
(first part)
On the Means of Improvement in Oratury, includ- 1
ing feleflioßs from Dr. Elair.
(second part)
Satrn's Address to the Sun, Milton. ,
Anthony's Speech on the Body of Julius
Caesar, Shakespeare.
Anthony's Funeral Oration, Shakejpearc. '
(third part.) 1
Hamlet's Soliloquy on Death, Shakespeare. I
Cato's Soliloquy on the Immortality of t
the Soul, ' Addifcn. j
Ode on the Paflions, Collins. f
0- On MONDAY, January »jd, 1
Seleilions from liiftory. 1
Edwin and Angelina. " I
Gray's Elegy ; and I
Part of the Deferi&l Village. f
pickets to be had of Mr. Poulfon, jun. at the Library ;
stmr. M'Elwec's lgoking-gbrfs-ilore, No. 70, S. Fourth
fireet j and at Mr. Carey's, Bookfellcr, Market-street '
Half a dollar each. '
T—■ ; * V
A Pointer found. f
0
V
Any person having Joft a small POINTER PUP- «
PY about a fortnight since, may have him again by f
proving property and paying charges. • Apply to the n
Print.r.
January 10 ,
- tl
A Watch Loft. J
ti
toft on Monday last, a Silver Watch, makers' names, h
" Hauxhurft and Donlt Njw-York, 809," on the face, tl
hour hand in a fmali circle ; the mil,ate hand revol- C J
ving in a larger. Whoever has found and will return
the lame, to James 1 dG-r, corner of Second and'Ca- 1
tharine Streets, fiall receive Ten Dpllars reward. If
offered for sale, it is requested it may be Hopped. l '
January, 18- *- t q
—— _____ j!
TO BE SOLD,
A PLANTATION, in the town of Woodbury, soun-
tyof Glouceiter, and ilateof New-Jet fey, contain- Itl
ing about one hundred and fifty acres ; a suitable propor- 1 w
tion of which is woodland and improved meadow. A n .
great part of the arable land is in a high ilate of cultiva- I
tion, and very natural to the prodnfiion of Red Clover f"
On said plantation there is a genteel two-story brick house,
with four rooms on a floor, and a good dry c< li»r under
the whole ; together with a barn, corn-cribs and carriage- til
hfflufe. l'he garden is large, and contains a good collec B ]
tion of the bel kinds of grafted and iaoculated fruit traes ; -i
the orchardeonfiftsof about three hundred grafted apple
trees. Any person iitclincd to purchase said premiies, may
be informed of the terms by applying to fu
ANDREW HUNTER. fu
J»)y*9 * T
—tic esgaPßß—
Fer the GA?£TTt or ths Unites States.
The citizens of Philadelphia have, at the ex- 1
penfe ef their friends, in different parts of the
ith United States, been alarmed. The dillrudlion of
property, by fire, has {truck us with awful lurprife.
It has grounded the idea, that some wretched in
cendiary would attempt the burning of this city.
It has routed the inhabitants, who, at the expense
of their reft, and rifle of their health, have watched
the property of rtieir neighbours during the long
nights, and the severity ef cold which has marked
this winter.
jr. I have long waited to fre some one of the peofftc
step ferward, and propose a plan tothe public, which
would secure property with less burthen than the
tt prefect general patrol.
It is prefumcd, the city police have it in their
or, power to tender the city mare secure, by ordering
daors to be fixed on all private alleys, by dirctting
them to be shut by a certain hour of the night, and
by levying a fine from all who aegleft or disobey.
The private alleys being tout, the patrofby the
c aid of the moon, or of the lamps, can view nearly
- one half square, or open alley. Add to this the
aid of horfas, whose feet fliould be muffled 10 pre
vent noise, hut in such manner, as not to /impede
vj. their speed. Under these circumstances, a tew
men, judiciously arranged through a city, would
>r, perform the whole bufinefi of the present numerous
train. In cafe of fire, these horfmen would inflantly
spread the alarm ; they could to the best advantage
ai range thelin > to supply water, or remove goods.
:d They would, at all times, be an excellent che:k so
the watchmen, and with ease take up or dispel the
night walkers.
This city or grand patrole (hould be veiled, by
the corporation, with certain powers, to enable
them to preserve order in the night. They would
form a fort of night magidracy. They should,
nevcrthelcfs, be accountable to the city police ; a
report by the mailer or captain of the corps, foi
the preceding night, should be by him filed ia the
mayor s office by 19 o'clock next day.
r » This grand patrol shall confill of the must refpea.
e able matters of families; they should have certain
le privileges and honors annexed to their office. Jt
will be proper that they have a certain badge or
le iymbol of their commission, by which they will be
able to detcdl and have impofters puoifhed. it is
e not supposed they will receive any pay, but it is 1
reasonable that the public stall defray their unavoid- :
j r able expenses ' I
4 The regulatiohs of this grand patrol, if not laid
0 down by the city police, should be approved by the I
t- mayor.
Their number mi/ be increased or diminiflied, as 1
prudenee rtiall direst ; but they (hould not, be abo- 1
Hllied, as the magistracy ef the city is not more im- '
portant than the
PATROL OF THE JIOHT.
1 ■■■ — I
CONGRESS OF the UNITED STATES. (
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. <
— t
1 Tutfi'ay, January 3, concluded, (
Thereport ofthe cominiltee of Ways and Means '
h on the fubjedl of the balances due from indivi- c
dual States to the United States being under c»o- t
ndcratioD.
• The gentleman before him (Mr. Williams) said t hc 1
House would not give them time to make the ne- c
cefTary enquiries. Mr. Thatcher aflted whatenquiiies 1
were neccffary ? The gentleman seemed ta mifun- c
derfland the resolution. It was merely to givg no- £
'ice to the (late, to pay the debt, and did not pre !•
■ elude any reason which they might have te give "
why it should" not be paid. He hoped, therefore, a
no paflponement would take plactt, but that the re- v
solution would be agreed ta.
Mr. Murray said, the gentleman from Mafocbu- P
fctts (Mr* I hatshcr) had misunderstood him, if P
he thought he had aflerted that certain ttate* would "
be thrown out of the union if the resolution was en "
tered into. He thought hi had accompanied what
hi had said with such exprcffior.s as that he could "
not have been mistaken. His meaning was, that b
if the (late of Delaware, for instance, was obliged °!
to pay the debt due from her, added to her present
burthens, it would have the effcift to bear her down
so much as to deprive her of her political confe- ol
quence in the union. He disclaimed the other a '
idea. tl
Mi. Craik rose to make a potion, if in order, ar
to postpone the farther eonfitkiaiion of this ques
tion till next ftfiion. He wiflietl «hi«, beeaul'e it cc
would give time fer cool deliberation. He was fu
surprised to hear gentlemen deny that the carrying f°
of this measure into effe& was not likely to produce
warmth io the country. He thought the conduct Dt
of gentlemen in that House proved the contrary; th
for be thought they could net exped tl.at the peo- nc
pie whom they represented wonld be more cool ob nc
the fubjcA than they were. The cenfidcratien of
this warmth, he said, operated ia his mu.d against
taking up the business at all. Gentlemen said they ln
did not mean to take any coercivc meafurcs, but only bc
to make the demand; but did they not know that
whertfhe demand had been made, they mud enforce S'
the payment, or shew they bad nut th. power of
doing so ? so
Mr. c. thought the date of Delaware, though it
had scarcely been mentioned, would be more par- wl
tievi arly affe&ed by a payment of the balances in wl
qiiellior. than any other.. The state of New-York,
he said, was fully able to pay ; but the fame could bu
not be said of Delaware. Indeed when, he saw *ei
New-York unwilli-g and Delaware unable to pay th:
I these balances, as a repr.efentative of Maryland who lio
| was a fmali debtor, he could not consent to the vir
. payment of that debt, whe« thef'e seemed te be no pa
probability ef enforcing payment from other wh
Uates. th(
He hoped, therefore, the House weuld agree fhc
that this wa* not the proper time ta make the ap- fin<
plication ia queflion, and vote for a poflponcment me
till next session. wa
Mr. lfaac Smith said, if he understood the mea- " s
sure, it was to inform the dates, that there was [ eis
such a sum of meney stood charged against them, or
Theic was no thicat iu the resolution; and if they I the
— bad any obje&io:. t« mike to the demand, they
would then make tliem. He had no objection to
the notice being expmffed in as mild terms as pofli
«. | We. The oppoliiioii te> the refolutiou was as warm,
;ht he said, as it it carried an execution along with it.
of He thought this warmth be withheld, at
f e . least, for the prefer*.
in- Mr. Livingfton said there seemed to be a mistake
ty. as to the language of the resolution. If it went
nfe no further than a notice, it would not be objc&iun
led a ble ; but it was accompanied wirh a lequelt. Lr
, B g payment. Mr. L. went again into arguments to
:ed thew the necessity of a postponement, in order to
an investigation of* the bufiuefs.
jf| e A member enquired what was the quefiion.
ieh Ibe speaker said the question was for a poftpone
he went for three weeks. The gentleman from Ma,
rylaad had moved to pcftpone till next session,
eir whish was not in order ; a day certain mutt be
i,g mentioned, and even that would not be in order,
ng except fecondfd, which was not the cafe with the
nd gentleman's former motion.
Mr. Craik then moved and the motion was fe
he ceuded, to postpone the quettion until the firlt
rly Monday in December next.
he Mr. Gallatin said, there seemed to be three dif
re. ferent grounds upon which a postponement tvit ur
de Red, The firft was, on an insinuation that some
:w fort ef agreement had taken place, when the sums
i!d doe to the creditor ftajes were funded, that the ba
ius lances due from the debtor fates were to be reliu
tly quiftied. So far fn>m this taking place, Mr. G.
ge said, a motion te this efFefit had been made and Be
ds. gatived at that time, by the yeas and nays being ta
an ken upon it, jg to 28. He was hurt, therefore,
he lo bear of this infinuatinn. The next ground for
a poftpenement was toundedon a suspicion that the
by fettleinent made by the commissioners was not just.
)) e He said he was net going to express ai « opinion
ild whether the fettlemeut was a just one or not 5 »he
d, thcr the rules adopted by the cdmroiffioncrs were
a good er not ; whether the mode of Hating the ac
o, counts had been the best. It was delirable that a
lie private ihculd take place, and though it
fell hard on some, it was not the Ids defirablc ; but
J. supposing, however, that any of the debtor ftatcs,
in or any state, had a right to object to the settle
ment, to the jurisdiction of the commissioners, aad
er "f congress, and were not to be bound except by
be the judges of the supreme court, thi* proper time
i s te have wade these objections was when the bill for
i s funding the balances of the creditor Hates pafied,
J. for that was the time of carrying the settlement in
to execution.
id Why, therefore, said Mr. G. there should he a
le poftponemcnt of three weeks to enable the New-
York members to fend to their fate, he did not
al know. They had had time enough ; and he
□- thought the bufmefs would have been better danc
n . three years ago than now.
The arguments adduced by the gentleman from
Maryland (Mr. Murray) seemed to have weight ;
_ that to carry the measure into effed might create
confufion j and that we had not power over the
Hates to enforce payment. As to the danger of
cotifufion, there was as much on the one fide as
the other ; becjufe those Itatcs which were to re
ceive benefit from the payment by the debtor dates
13 would have as much cause te complain if these
i- debts were not paid, as tbofe debtors being obliged
j- to pay what they owe, could have.
The only ground, then, was the want of power
ie to coerce the dates, and this, he owned, appear
.. Ed te be ltrong. Yet this ground was rather againlt
, 3 the resolution itfelf. It was better, he said, ta
<l ult the whole bulinefs at once, than to paftpene ;
thaa to leave the subject to irritate the minds of the
people ta no purpose. If it were pottponed till
e next fei&on, the pcopl« would be operated upoa by
a fear " f haviu K th e money to pay ; and the fates
, who owed it, would also remain diflatisfied.
Mr. G. thought, therefore, it wuuld be belt te
_ put thequeftioi), and to fee whether they had the
f power in doubt or not. Rather than adopt any
, resolution to peftpene, he would cancel the busi
ness altogether.
, He would lay a word as to coercion. He did
, not fee any pewer they had over the fates, except
[ b y attaching any of their prepi'rty. He few no
j other way in which they could lay hands o» a fate.
. Nor was this owing to the weakness of our govern!
i mcnt ( a 8 " been insinuated.) This settlement
of accounts was a remnant of the old government,
. and had nothing to do with the present ; for now,' \
their power was to be exercised over individuals'
and not over fates. 1
' As to the resolution itfelf, if they went into a '
. commit{ee ef the whole, he mijrht perhaps make '
furne observations upon it. He had been at a loss '
to know why this fubjed had not been entered ]
; into before, ana why it should .be brought forward
now. With refpeA to the notification, he believ- 2
the fates had already been notified. As it w «ld 1
not be in order however to g» info the fubjeft <. c . '
nerally, he had eonfiued himfclf to tbe queitioß "ef '
pndponemeiit. "
Thequeftion for postponing to the firft Monday [
in December, was then taken and negatived, there 1
being only 37 votes for jt. / (
For three week* was Wxtppurt r and negatived ;
51 to 29. ' 1
I On motion o. Mr. Cooper, the quellion was put |
for one week, and negatived by the fame members [
Thequeftion for going ioto a committee of the 11
whple on the fubjeft, was theu put and carried, b
when S
Mr.-Van Allen said he wished to fimplify tad "
bufinefsas much as pollible. He believed it was a
very important te convince the state of New-York t<
that the settlement had been made upon fair and &
honorable principles; because if they were eon- n
vinced of this, they would Jiave no objections to ®
pay the debt; but, knowing the general fcutiments C<
which prevailed in, that state of the unfairnefs of
the tranfafiion, he was desirous that some step rr.
(hould be taken which would serve to adjust the bu- V
finefs. He thought he held in his hand an amend
ment which was calculated to have that effect. It
was as follows—Toi»fert after the word " indeed"
" and that the proceedings bf the said commission
ers shall be open fer the infpeftien of such agent fn
or agents as the said debtor states, or either of th
them, (ball appoint to iiifpcft the fame." ct
t) | 'Mr. H.ip t beKeved :h.r (lie 'Iftnzn who
to brought tortfard this would have ber.i
si the last to have dotie so, li lie had fcen all the mlf
n, chiefs which wodd be cwufequent upon carry»
it. injf it inte effect. It wsuld be to undo all
at that bad been dons with the greatest la.
and with the greatest difficulty, for three
te yea'rs ; and what he asked would be the conte
nt quence ! Were they to te-fettle the business and
n- consume two or three more year 9in the affair, tlieic
or would be no security that New-York, or'fome o
to ther Hate, would not be diffatislied. so that there
to would be no end of such a business. He was of
the number of those who wilhed to have parte | hy
this fettlcment at p'efent altogether ; but the ma
e- jority had said, we will have a decilion. Lart them
a, make one. If be was called upon to vote upon
n, tjie refolutisn, he believed he fliould voie against
ae it ; -but, at all events, he fhouid dcprecate more
r, than any other peffibic course, the ripping up of
ie tUii> long dlfpute.
Mr. Williams spoke at fo'tiC length in favor of
e- his colleague's motion, and Mr. W. Smith laid a
ft few words agaiult it, when it was put and Rsga
tived, there bein# only 10 for it.
f- Mr. Macon then said that the United States had
r- been the cause of entreating the debts oftheftatea
ie by assuming the state debts, some of which were
is nost half, others not a quarter of the sum assumed.
j. Mr. Locke alio spoke a few words on the hard
j. (hip of the cafe of "North Carolina, who had made
I. three times greater exertions in the war thais fume
of her neighboring dates, who were made credi*
t tars, and yet they were brought in debtors.
?l The committee rose and the house adjourned.
e Wednesday, January 4.
, Mr. Dana from Connecticut, a new member, (in
" place of Mr. Tracy now in the Senate) ycfterday took
" the usual oath and his feat in the House.
Mr. Malbone presented a petition from John Rohin
e foil of Newport, merchant, praying for the rem.ilion of
a penalty incurred on account of due form not being
a obterved in the rtgiftering of the ship William of
Charlcftsn. Referred to the committee of commerce
and manufactures.
1 Mr. Swanwick prefanUd a petition from the lnfpec
> tors of theCuftoms at the pcit yf Piiifadilphia, piay
- ing for an increase of salary.
J Mr. S. Smith presented one to the fame purpose from
Baltimore , both ot which were referred to the cora.
e mittce of commerce and manufactures.
r Mr. Swanwick preferred a petition from Philip
Audibert, late a clerk 111 the public office oi govern
> ment, but who now from hi« age is past service, be
■ ing 65, praying, in cosfideration of pait ufefulnefs, for
relief, that he may not fink, from a state of ease *jiil
1 content, to that of poverty and distress. Referred to
. the fame committee.
t Mr. Swanwick also presented two petitions, out from
William Patten, the otherfrom David Miller, formar
* ly grocers in this city, praying for a remifiion of pen
c alties incurred in having fold winean<l spirits by retail
without licence. The former ftatadthat he had de
-1 clined business in August (aft, • ml'had only reserved
. the remainder of a hogfbead of fpirtt for tne ulf of
. workmen employed in a building, "and that if any part
of it had been fold it was without his k uwledge ; the
latter slated, that he had only refc/ve.i a calk of dam
aged wine for the purpose of mak'ng vinegar, and
8 that Bene of it had been fold,, except cn great ioiicita.
- tion, one quart by his wife to a man.
B Mr- S. moved that thele petitions iho' !<1 be referred
. to the eommittse of commerce and manufactures. Ob.
I were made ta a reference 01 » em at *!■(, a«[aa
improper subjeCt for legillative intei tercttce. If the
petitioners, it was fa d, had offended again!) the lauu
they ought to pay the penalty and that if th«# h»uK
■ were to employ themselves in such they
t might fit the whole year round, about wor/e than nc
> thing. Mr. Swanwick observed, on the other hind,
, that he understood the cases of ti.eie petitioneis
. were hard ones, having had some conversation with
j the distriCt Attorney on the fubjea, at lealt,
the petition ought to have a reference, since, if ths
committee of commerce and manufactures (or a lelcif
> committee, if such a reference lhould be thought more
proper) saw no reason to make an exception against the
law, in favour of these peiit;uncrs, and he believed it
. would not be said they weie Very apt to do so. theip
report would be very summary, anc consume but little
of the time of the house.
A reference Was denied by a great majority.
Mr. Harrifon presented a petition of Lucy Clerk
praying for payment of money due to her late iulband*
a director of artillery in the late war. This petit,on
having been decided upon last feflion, some ckieftioas
were made to the referring of it again, but, on tlw
ground of new cvldencc they were over rule®, and it
was referred to the committee otcUims.
Mr Blount moved that the petition of Richard
Blackley, with a s report thereon which had not been
aiiled upon.be referred to the committee of claims.
r - Dwight Fofier, from the committee of claims,
made reports en the petitiens of George Marker and
wite, iamuel VVilkiafon, and Gilbert Dench, which
were againfl the petitioners. Their wer» twice read.,
the two former concurred in by the House, und the last
ordered to be comnutttd to a committee of the whole,
anu made the order of thi< day.
Mr. Livingftoii fiij, as t ) lcjr luj J ate iy Oi nwn m „ c i,
anxiety about the ideal property of the United States,
he thought it was ncecfTary to ftiew some refpeft to
its real property ; for this purpose he movjd a rclclu
tion to the following efiedt:
" Hefolvcd that a committee be appointed te enquire
into the title of the United States to lands lying weft
a, between the 41ft and Aid d.grees of
North latitude, lately claimed aud fold by th« itatc of
Connecticut. Ordered to lie on the table
On the Speaker's informing the House that the bufi
neis.which had priority in the orders of the dav, was
f,,K- rC <w k oi i the c ° n,:ni ; te « of wa y« ">d means on the
übjeU of balances due from individual iUtcs to the
United Starts, Mr. Nicholasihrought forward a refn
lutmn which proposed the of the propertv veitrd
by the state of New-York in ,he funds P rfs?Urt|rf
Mates, for payment of the balance due from that state
in the fettlcment otthe eommiffioners, to the United
states, i his motion occafioncd conliderable debate,
and was negatived 41 to 35.~-.The house then went in
to a committee of the whole on the fubjeel, when a
amilar motion was introduced in the form of lu araCnd
ment by Mr Sitgrcaves, and negat,veu 4, to 30. The
original resolution was at length put and carried by a
conquerable majority, there being 5 ! j,« t e, i n it, fa.
vour. The committee ther. rose, and on motion for
the house to take up the i.ufir.efs, a motion for adjourn,
menc was made and carried.
When the house was about to form itfelf into a
committee oPthe whole, on the fubjeft of the
balances due from individual ltatcs to the United
States, *
Mr. Nicholas rose and said, though the propo-
Ik ion he had made the other day was at that time
thought improper, he was more'and more convin.
ced of its piopiietjr. He thsught the courfc pro.tpafed to be takes by the rep»rt which had been
-M ie wa, not the Left ; he thought they were
va'urtmg oppnfitioi,, and giving the Hate of New-
Yt.rk an ..pportunity of embodying its opposition,
io -,st > make it dangerous to attempt, if it (hoald
lis rafter be thought necessary, to enforce the pay
mijnt of the balance in question. He believed the
J .ited States had it in their power at present to do
themselves justice ; but were the United States to
Jay their hands on the funds of the state of New-
York as a feennty for ,heir debt, there would be
nMhrng left to operate upon the minds of the peo
pie of that state, but the justice of the measure,
as they would no longer fofter any idea of evading
the debt. He could fee no obje&ion to this pro
ceedmg".
If there was danger of a serious conflict with
that state, in order to recover this debt, he for one
would chtife to reiiiiqm'Ch it altogether ; but if they
were to pay themselves by laying bold of 'heir
stock, he believed that state would acquiefee in the
Hic.iftire, and there would 110 more be heard of it
*hich might not be the cafe if they made a de'
matid, and weie to wait for objections or a refufal
ot payment. From the zeal which had been iliewn
by the gentlemen from New-York on this occasion,
he aflcef if it w©nld be extraordinary if that state
(hould put it out of their power to do themselves
justice ; and whether wnsn the opposition to the
demand (hould be drawn into a focus, it would not
be encreafed in iis force He thought there could
be no doubt of it.
There was one objeftiontoa proceeding of this
ki»d that might have some weight. It might be
fuid, for inftanee, that the state from whence he
came, or others, might refufe to pay, after they
had distrained upon the funds of New-York fur
their debt. It might be so. He believed that one
of the debtor (fates could never pay. This was
no reason why they (hould no: receive the debt from
New-York. They might nevertheiefs allow so
much from the amount as fhouJd be equal to the
deficiency in the payments of the otiier states.
He thought to adopt this plan would be to avoid
any disagreeable cooflift which might otherwise
take pbee, and be a means sf prefervinjr harmony i
between that state and the United States. He !
therefore prapofed a refolutien to the following ef
fect—which he wi(hed to be committed to the lame
committee of the whole to was referred the
report of the committee ef ways and means on this
fubjeift.
Resolved, That the balances due from certain
lUtes in the settlement of accounts between indivi
dual state* and the United Sta-es, shall be dischar
ged out of the funds whi«h such ftatrs may hold in
the public debt of the United States, and that th'e ]
feeretary of the t tea fury hare directions accordinor
ly-
[To he
■» «
CONTINUATION OF \
Late Foreign Intelligence.
We have already published the German and En- h
ghfh accounts of the actions of the 19th and 24th
OSober : the following are the French details !
of the fame a&ion— I
From the London Courier. Nov. 8.
? OFFICIAL DETAILS.
ARMY of the RHINE and MOSELLE.
Extract of a letter from the General in Chief, Moreau I s
to tl)e Executive Diredory.
Upon the 27th of this manth the right wing
was attacked in the pasTes if'Enfer, St. Pie. re, and
St, Msrgen. Ihe advanced guard was oblige !to
fall back, but the main body prtferved its pofiti6n.
The pass was guarded, and the enemy wera unable rl
to blnck it up.
" gave orders again to attack the enemy next V
day. Ihe centre of the army was to support this
attack by a detachment which followed tits route
of the pass of Simonsvvald. 'p
" U PO» the 28th, Prince Charles, who had coo
centrated his whole aimy in the neighbourhood of
Elfach and Effingen, att«c-ked the adv.mced guard
£f the centre and that of the left. The latter were M
to fall batk upon tbe army, but that of the centre
was vnder the neceflity of making head in its. po
sition, in order to pretcit the return of its detach-'
»nent in the Simonfwakl.
" That of the left was to fall back behind the
Elft upon the firft; attack of Reutuengen, which
it occupied by the bridges of AnwafTen and The
ningew ; but the brave general Beaupeuis, who had
the command of this movement, w.,s killed at the
beginning of this so that the detachment
continued to fight in tne bad position which tt oc-
cupied till new orders could be giver, and all their
bravery was requisite to prevent them from being £ u
driven in by a superiority of force, and numerous 'r
artillery.
" After this engagement, in which, fortunately, 1
wi. did not lose a single piece hf artillery, the army
preftrved its position behind the Elft ; the right me
at the entrance oftke defile tef Waldlkirk, the left us
At Riges ; but as the Molelle at Theningen was ** f
commanded by the heights of Mundingen, I took c
position five hundred toifes behiad, defending th# t
mouth of the passage in front by Hai genzingen, '
tbe right by the mountains. The loss of the enemy "''l
is about five hundred killed and one hundred and l°. c
and fifty made prifonert. The attack of tlie right c *
wing succeeded, and its advanced guard resumed f u n
ijs pnfition at St. Pierre. _ Ny ,
Upon the 29th the enemy attacked Nimburg. • "
•They displayed in artillery, infantry, and cavalry,
■ coiifiderable forces. The heads of their columns
were ready to seize the passes at all the other points,
had they succeeded in forging this one ; but their
efforts were useless, and their attacks, which they
continued to repeat with frefh troops from tea
o clock in the morning till late at night, were repel- "
•led with the greatefl; courage. The light artillery ''
especially performed prodigies of valor. The e
nemy likewise attempted an attack upon the left
©f the ccntr« of the army, but vigorously repulsed J,
by the 1 bt-h Jemi-brigade, they tonfined themselves two
«o this toiaL rir .
* " 13m f' r '"S ta^rt} s Ycfterday
lew " eray , fglW ' ed u » their artillery ; but the
lon "; rtt C ~ nded by Generals Ahbatucci and
J completely krpt them check _
»«'«> Upon the 24:h, 25th and 26th, the advanced
.£ sssr* *° g ''" d •" *- *- T~
5 " Health and refpeft.
(Signed) MO RE A U."
Ibe Extraa of a Utter addreffid to the Executive Direßo
.re Ik h Chie f °f the a "»y "f
' lih " ca " d Mofclle, tinted OMohcr to.
"»g " Citizens Directors,
>ro- «■ On the [ft of this month the army took the
following portion ;—the left „ n the Rhine, the
Mth right it Kaudern. the centre at Schiihngen. I re
one mained there on the second, and it was my inten
hey tmn, ,fthe enemy had not pursued me with their
T h - C 'T 7, '®, have mai " [a '»cd myfelf there.-
it rj e , " med P»niculsrly direfled a gainst
■t, Kaudern and Hiel : and their objed was, in o
de pen.ng Ludlingen, to arrive before me at Amin
' d,n j re *' and cut °ff my retreat te Huninguen. I
o„ "!pI a r V ; 5° rOU .' attac . k the famc da X the post
t' u , l" de "' but their having time to cut down
ves ;Ji sa uack. PteVe " ted 3ny £ °° d rcfu ' tlHg fr °»
w , J 7 h j t "°°Pf of F en - Ferrino, who were ordered
«t Kaudern and Hicl performed prodigiesof
valor, and resisted the lepeated attacks of the enemy
from daybreak till night. I gave orders for their
hw being supported by a post of the general's d.vision,
be again ft whom the attack was less vigorous. Geo.
ey /he Rh" "P* 301 ted t ' le att ' c k from Schillingen to
r or •« Notwithftanaing the fatigue of the troups, oc
",e caf,oned by the very bad weather, they repulied the
'as enemy in every attack, without at all regarding
>m the,r numbers ; and if the situation of the army had
io permitted to remain upon the right bank of the
he Khinel we flatter ourfelve. we (hould liavc gained
a 7 r er 7 bril J ian ' victory. We have taken about ,00
-V pnfoners from the enemy, five of whom are of
-llf hcers.
7L " e6th the arm X to °k a position at At
ie I flugen. On the jtb it passed the Rhine at Hunin
■ - j geii ; and although the army of the enemy was en
nc camped only a icag.ie distant frsm us, they dared
tie not molest or interrupt us in our. passage, which
"8 was effp&ed ,n the gieateft order, and covered by 1
. generals Abbatucci and'Laboiffiere. 1
" Health and lefpcd. I
'i- (Signed) .. MORE A U." :
r- ______ j
111 _ _ ® ' RASBUHG, O&ober 24.
l> Eltr adl or a letter to the niinifter tor foreign affairs, *
r. tt concerning the English envoy. 1
Yon are going to ennfer with a man whom I well
knew at 1 ete. (burgh, Jnd who 19, and always haa
been, one of the moftw»rm and dangerous enemies
_ ot France. It is neceffiry that you (hould know him
well. I inform you that no person has morcAnow
e ge o men and things; that 110 one knows better
how to conceal a feeret, and to guess or draw out the
secrets of others."
1- i," 'r' 16 !' mam ? er of letter coniains reflexions on !
hn Lordfliips charafler, which we declit.e ißferti.ag. 1
Phi lad rl p kia,
THURSDAY^ EVENING, 7 4NUARY J 9 , 1797. ,
&■ * stated meeting of the Ph.lofnphical Society ,|
will be held at their hall at 6 o'clock this eveainc.-
u New members to be eleflcd. "
__ r
' „ TheS *" a t« eleflcd Samuel Mickle Fnx, V(
j Kearney Wharton, and Wm. Miller, jun. Direflors «
I °f< h *B»" k o( Pennsylvania, by an unanimous Vote, q
' , Henry Latimer, Esq. is re elefttd Senator.fj
: the United States, by the legislature of the ftateot" j t l
Delaware,, for fix years, commencing the third of ti
March next. . r
i
NEiv-jERSEr Election.
Total amolint of the votes of ten counties, in the
state of New-Jersey, for members of the House B
of Representatives, to serve in the fifth Congress
of the United States—viz g (
MtGeurs Dayton . . 5793 15
St-'hurrman * . 3937
Sijinickfon - 3 6 0 8 S[
Thompfou . 3 g 54 S l
l m ' a 7 „ " * 3545 Bi
* 3483 Bi
E. Eimer - , 953 Sc
■L-mn - - 1970
BloomfielJ- . , 759 gc
N. B. This return includes the votes of all the A
count,e. in New-Jeiley, except the counties of
csutlcx and Bergen, and one townihip of thecoumy
of Burlington, which have not yet come to hand ;
but from the bell accounts it appears that the votei
of these counties'-will only incrcafe the majorities of Se
the five highest candidates.
— Br
A printed copy of the following authentic Doau
ment (m the French lasguage,) was yesterday sent to Si)
us by a correipondent. £ Am. D. Adv.]
" Extra<fl _ f r«i® tbe register of the deliberations of the
rst «° vernmtnt ti
" The commiflion resolve that the captains of French
(hips at war and privateers, are authorized to seize and
to conduct into the ports of the colony, American vrf
fels dcftined for or failing from i nglilh ports
»I he vefTels already taken, or those which may in 1
future be taken, ihall remain in the ports of the colo
ny, uafil it ihall be otherwise ordained.
' "j} e 7th s of 1 . Frimairi, ( 27 th of November,) i„
fible e ' C Uepubl,c > °" £ indivi.
« Signed in the regifler of the Proces Verbeaux. Th
Le Blanc, President. <
" Son'honax, 1 _ Bri
"Kaimond, j CommifTioners.
" Pafcall, Secretary," p r ;
" A true copy, according to the feeretary general 1
of the commiflion. " PASCALL " g j
Extract of a letter from an American residing at the 1
Havannah, dated the I4 th of December, 1796.
I he Revenge Freueli privateer has sent in here
day " Don Juan Pro.-'opio de Baffcourt Conte Sauta Cla
the n, is arrived in quality of governor of this IJland he
and , governor. ot Barcelona ; his policy is
rounded on tfee best principles, and it is expelled here
cetl friendly to the Americans."
7CO following letter was yesterday received via- New
-1 York.
Havannah, Dec 24, 1796.
Mejfrs Sptrry C 3* Campbell,
' Sus,
I am sorry to inform you of our being captured by a
So- jf nc *' P riTat «r of ro guns, off Heneaga on the 14th
the r cannot at pre.'ent inform voh what will be our
ate, as lam detained on board-as a phfoner, and not
luitered to go on (hore. Captain Earl was taken on j
Uoard the privateer, and I suppose sent to the Cape—l
the pray God you had Insurance made, as I wrote by three
the different opportunities from Jamaica.
re- rhe reason given for taking us is, that we were
en- 0 "" d frotn 1 P° rt > and fhewc-d u. their com
million, wherein they had orders te take all Americans
bound to or from British ports.
The fame privateer has f.-nt into this port a brig
loaded with rice, bound to Jamaica, which was
° yesterday condemned, vefTel and cargo—l am real
ly afraid it will be our fate. The fame privateer
.captured the next day aftei taking us, rhe brig
belonging o George Peter, and the fchoo- i
wn ner Betsey, belonging to Dutilh and Wachfmuth !
—where they have sent them I do not know. I
j l. ia^ C f 13 '* 3 deal of trouble, owing to the
e fa.fe information, t« the captain of the privateer,
by one of captain Earls'boys, that there was lif
y teen thousand dollars iR ca(h on board, which oc
casioned a complete feareh for money I had bor
| n > rowed of the mate 100 dollars, which they took
from me, and left me without it fix pence. They
0 ?.!fo took from the mate 70 dollars. Captain E'»
boy is gone home; his n<ime is , a son of the
> c ' man you bought the ftavesof. The cargo consists
of 36 tierces and 300 bags of coffee, about 90,000
'£ weight, 200 bags of ginger, and some old iron it
® copper for yo»r account, 70 bags of ginger on
, " cou "t of Jacob Sperry and Co. [ w„nld have
■' lent you copies of the invoices, but they have ta-
J ° ken ell my papers me ; however I hope to fee
copies of them in ar'few days (when I igct releas
ed.) x hey haveplundeted me of every thing that
l " is eatable.
JOHNM. IR.WIN.
•d ~~
, emaiKAL.
' . A Gentleman who had lately read a pamphlet en
y titled " 1 homas Paine to George Washington," was •
reprobating the writer, in presence of a young Lady,
for the reflexions cast on the illuftrioas charailer.—
Si!c replied, " 'When the Age of Reason appeared,
Sir, you were not offended with the freedom with
winch Paine tieauji JtsUs but you are so
good a man bear the least reflexion on
George Walhingtin." taper.'}
—- ' c '
IS
By this day's Mail.
1 _ NORFOLK, January 9. |
This day arrives! the brig Eliza, Captain Lot
n Lure, .8y days horn Liverpool. Oil the 29th Dec. J
in lat. 36, long. 68, fjioke the brig Lucy, Froll, 1
f'day's out from Norfolk, bound to Caiiiz, all well.
1 Yesterday arrived here thefebooner Polly, Capt. 3
N. Kirly, in ti dayi from the Havanna. Through '
the •oolfleiufs or the captain and we are /
enal led -olay before our readers the following par. y
ticuiars ! * r b
! Sat War was proclaimed at the Havanna on °
the ijfh of N-vrmher ; an embargo took place o>
the loth, which was not taken off till the 24th of
December. A proclamation was ifiued by the Go-
vernor of the nlavanna on the 19th of December, .1
j ordeiinr all Bi' ifTi ftibjefts, not naturalized, to
quit the ifi. id of Cuba in 8 days ; and those who j"
were naturalized, b< vjitue of the aft of tolerati. I
on, rt»re to be urciilhed with passports to retire to
the cities of Bijacal or Santiago, there to remain v
till an opportunity effered to (hip them off the
iiland. Ec
The following vessels failed from the Havanna, in "
company with the lvhoouer Polly, the zßth of *"
December:
Brig Courtney, Livingfton, from Jamaica to Nor
folk, (put into the Havanna in
Schooner Ariel, Weeks, for Philadelphia.
Brig Neptune, Douglas, from Jamaica to Wil
miHgton, (pat in there i'n diftrefg.)
Snow Flora, Corey, for Charleston.
Sloop Nancy, Huntington, for ditto.
Brig Iwo Brothers, of Wilmington, for ditto. V*
Brig Sally, NeweN, of Murfreeftoro', for ditto. a °i
Schooner Baibara, Siinon White, of and for Bal
timore. 1 na
Schooner , Season, for Boston.
And a Rhode-lHand sloop, from Curracoa to Nor 7
folk, failed from the Havanna in company.
Left at the Havanna,.
Sloop Mercury, Pikes, from Kingston, bound to ?*•
Phil delphia.
Schooner Harriet, J. Foster, of and bound to 5
CharleUon, taking in a cargo. m w
Biig Harriet, Macaulay, from Baltimore, j»ft ar-
rived.
Snow Nelly, De Shields, just arrived from Balti
more ; not permitted to land her cargo.
Captured and plundered Americans t 0 f
Ihe (hip Golden Age, owned by Mr. Moulton, of w ],
Philadelphia( (w o was in her) was captured on he
her paflage fr»m t® Philadelphia, by a he
French privateer, and sent into the Havanna. r
The fhijj 1 homas, Martin, of Charlerton, was
boarded by a privateer without a commission,
plundered of a great number of articles, and car- „ a ,
ried to St. lago; (he aftei wards came to the {■„.
rlajranna.
Captured British vessels at the Havanna:
The Bermuda privateer Hawk, taken by a Spanith mel
,77 ' W n^er,on » St. Kitt's, to i" !
Belfaft. s.
Brig , Woolford, from Moutferrat to p.
Liverpool (Nova Scotia.)
Ship — , from Jamaica to Liver
pool (England.) , ,
' 'wh;
BALTIMORE, January 17. cr ' r
« rot.
By Mr. Maloy, who went out supercargo of the Chi
Ann and Maria, of this port, we leara that the a. gra
Cia- Hove vcffVl was taken on her homeward bound pas.
.* from Jamaica, in September last, by a French
here P rI * ati;t:, "> an <i oan ieil into St. Jago, in theifland of
Cuba, where fthe capt. of the privateer having
ew- ° r >bed two of the hands to swear (he was Britiih
property) (he and her cargo were both condemned,
S. without even the semblance of a trial ; that her
cargo was inltantly landed, parts knocked into her,
and that (he was immediately sent on a cruise at a
4 th Fl e , nch P rivateer - lc has been so long since Mr.
our Maloy left St. Jago (upwards of 70 days) that he
not f an R»»e no confirmation or contradiiSlion of the
on intelligence refpe&ing the captuie of our vessels
—I the Spaniards— but he fays, that a number of A.
,r «e mericans have been sent into St. by Frenck
'ere Pr iT * tecr »* all " f vhom met the fame fate as
»m- "tmfelf, and that a French nod is Spanifli law, in
ans that part of theifland.
r, £ ALBANY, January 9.
»as By a letter lately received from Mr. Talbot, *.
ral- gent for the United States, for the purpose ef cf
eer ; feAing* the rcleafement of American seamen in the
rig . Weft-Imdies, to his friend in this Rate } we learn,
00- I that he had vifiied Barbadoes and and
nh J had a conference with four British admirals, viz.
I Hyde Parker, Henry Harvey, H. Carberry Chris.
the tian, and Charles Moriee Pole, Esquires, and cor
er, refpondence with the two formfer; the reftalt of
iif. which terminated more favorably than wa* at firft
®c« c *pc&ed. Admiral Harvey, commanding all the
»r ftnps of war stationed among the windward iflandt,
ok had given the most poStive assurances, that be
icy would cause an enquiry to he made, on board all the
i'» (hipsof war, es they returned into port, and that
he all Americans found on board (hould be dischargers,
ifts and that he would give petitive orders againtl all
00 farther impreflments of American seamen, and to
it pay due rcfpeA to the protefUon* with which they
on may be furnifhed. Mr. .Talbot farther iaforme,
ive that these orders wete potting in exeeution, and
ta- that more than sixty had been discharged. He
et likewise mentions the great mortality of the Bri
if. tift forces both by sea and land, in diver* parti of
iat the Weft Indies ; and that orders had arrived to
flop all Spanish property ; but not to proceed to
condemnation until farther orders. He rxprefTe*
entire confidence in the future conduct of the Bri
tish government towards America, and that no far
n- ther injuries will be committed on our trade or ia>
« habitants.
y.
< j ; NEW-YORK, January 17. ■
ih our P a P cr of yesterday, the reader will ob
fo f f rvea note at the foot of the article of eftiiuate*
m and duties, of this kind: « More than half the
whole revenue of the United States, arifiag from
impolt and tonnajfe, is paid by the state* of New-
York and Fennfylvania."
Wt *i(h our readers to understand that that
note did *9/ originate with the editors of the Mi»
nerva. It was copied from another paper, and"
could have proceeded only from inattention in the
5 publishers. We IhouM not now have -Noticed the
I* alley ion, had not similar ideas fallen from a mem.
' ber of Congress in a late debate on the balance* f
and did not inch aflertions frequently occur in the
'• commercial states by way of boasting.
1 The truth is, more than half the revenue is ctJ.
e hSed in tlie ports of Philadelphia and New-York :
hut the duties are paid by all the (tatej in the Uni
on. Philadelphia imports, not only'for her near
" neighbors# but for all the foathcrn states. New.
" York imports largely for the southern states, and
wholly for her adjacent neighbors. Mere dry good*
are carried from New-York up Conne&icut river,
' than up the Hudson. The consumers on that ri»
* ver, including Conne&icut, Hampshire county,
* in Maflachufetts, and part of Vermont and New-
Hampshire, amount to almost 4.00,000 fouls, a po
' pulation equal to that of the whole state of New
| York, and the richest people and the most liberal
: consumers of luxuries, that are in America. Not
to mention a large portion of New-Jersey, which
are dependent on New-York merchants for supplies.
It is very deniable that the citizens of the Ame
rican republic (hould lay aside ths little narrow
views of local advantages, aud think themfelve*
members of one great community. Of what con
ference is it whether the duties on goods are paid
on this fide or the other, of a* imaginary line ? lo
an inhabitant of New York or Albany, happier or
letter, he lives in a date where cuftoma ai«
colle&ed, than the citizens of Newark or Burling,
ton, who are separated from the colle&ing port bf
a large rivet ? Americana ought to be ashamed of
naming such diltinAions. Minerva.]
COMMUNICATIONS.
Some members of a certain body, have
tically hinted, that the Frcnch directory, ought to
make war upon the United States. They have aat,
said indeed, that they wiil openly join France*
(hould it come to a qdarrcl; but it is yet to be fees
whether thiy do not mcaa to prostrate their «oua>
try before the French direAory, by withalding
from it the meana neccflary far an honorable nego
tiation.
You have seen • cock upon a dung-hill ia fearck
of food ; with what industry th fcratche* it, witk
what earnellnefi he esamioei every layer of filth a»
he turns it over ; and how beflrutsaad crow* when
he finds a grain of half rotten corn to devour juSt
so your democrat* search the duag-hill of philofo*
pby for diforganiting fentimcats, and ftrat and orow
on finding oae, through their whole chain of new*,
papci* —as if they had just received precious trea*
iure from Mexico.
Piatt, a|writcr ia the cmfe of holy infurtec.
tion, would persuade the people, that their govera.
ment ha* aAed anjuftly towards France—and that
justice reqaire* they (hould take a part with Fraaec
against their own goverameot s—and in this patri- '
otic attempt he call* ia the aid of aa extract from
j Godwin'* Political Justice, —" I have a paramoant
I engagement to the cause of justice and the bt Be
fit of the hum&a race. If the >ation vndenak a
'what is unjust, fidelity in that Undertaking is a
erimc." This morfcl has btea copied iato the Au
rora, aad no doubt will make it* way good to the
Chronicle, the Argus, aad the Baltimore Tcle
- fWants a place, as Wet Nurse,
A woman with a good bre ft of milk, who can be
well'recommended, for further particulars enquire of
the Printer. Jan. 17.
Bank of the United S'ates,
December 261b, 1796.
WHEREAS the following described Certificates
of Fublic Debt, credited in the books of the Ireafuty,
and of Stock of the Bank of the United States, were
loft with the brig Peggy, John Hyer, mailer, on her
paflage to London —Therefore notice is hereby given,
that cation will be made for others of the fame
deleription agreeably to the rules established at the
Treasury and-Baitk of the United States refpeilivcly.
CERTIFICATES OF PUBLIC DEBT.
Date&No. In whose favor lffued. Dolls. Cts.
Mar, 4,1796.
8169 &■? Walter Boyd, aof ioooo cach def. alTu.
2170 i
ditto 6 do.
i, 77 ditto I 5421 93 do.
Feb. 16. *
14036 Fermin de Taftet, I 3900 6perct. dom.
Mar. 4.
14076 Francois G.dc Tourncs, t 400.1 do;
14077 ditto J 1 555 47 do.
35128 Diego Dittmer, 1 674 44 do.affu.
3539 ditto 1 1169 15 do.
Feb. 16.
14034 ditto 1 3499 46 do. dom.
Mar. 4.
14078 Jofcph Lucas 1 3000 do.
3527 ditto 1 1000 do.affu.
Feb, 16.
14035 Pares Sc Heygafce, 1 2632 58 do. dom.
3517 ditto 1 1367 4<i do. affu.
2618 ditto 1 3000 3 per ct, do.
Mar. 4
10834 &(F. C. Pourrat, veuv6 ) , , ,
aogii ( leCoulteulx, ) 4 eaeh do.dom.
10836 ditto * 5591 10 do.
2636 to ) ltt g 5000 each do. affu.
2641 } Q
2642 ditto 1- 2096 23 do.
Feb. »6.
9273 Elizabeth Rutt, 1 14*00 def. dom.
ai6o Edward Steers, i 363567 do. alTa.
£*74 ditto i 440 70 do. dom.
Mar. 4'
9303 Hannah Shelly 1 *562 23 do. do.
gf) Slt B e nj . Thompfoa, 3 s oeo
*167 Rev. G. K. WJiatley, 1 2000 del. affu.
Sl6B ditto > i6uo do. do.
CERTIFICATES OF BANK STOCK.
Dates & No. Ia wh.fe lavor iffucj,
Jtn. 1. 1796.
1960910 ). (c . \tkinfon, sos t (hare.
J9613 ) „
1046 Thomas Andros, 3 shares.
4 T?2 ditto 2 lha es.
387]
S°4s |
J123 V William Barnard, 7 1 '
>9»59 I
to I
19261 J
o Blair, a £ fharei.
»*3 8 )
9°4&iditto 2 »o (hares
®9 5 K
s8 5 j ditto > 4 (hares.
13227 & )r«. David Bogue, * 1 (hare.
135 6 5 J
609 Martin de Havilland 1 5 (hares.
1666 ditto 1 4 shares.
*959 &) Samuel Etheridge, * 3 »"'«•
2067 ditto * * ar "-
95 to 100 Jofoua Grigby, jun. " 5 fha»e«.
14023 &)| M rs .Sarah Harms, 2 l share.
14024 )
,'"3.fiCLri' •»*->
®4j3<fc) ditto * 3 (hares.
aci,! ditto ' 5
54 Nathaniel Lc Cocq, 1 5 (hares,
£5&223t Wm PcterLeCocq, 3 5 (hares.
*639 Joseph Lucas, . 1 5 Iharcs.
*353* ) Thomas Mullet, * I (hare.
1353*
*954 to ) Thomas Raikes, 4 5 shares.
*957 ) .. „
3293 ditto 111 Iharcs.
*0il & \ William Rai'kcs, a 5 (hares.
2®Oo )
2985 ditto 1 7 shares.
392 ditto * 3 fhares
-4067 Rev.Cha, Richards, 1 * shares.
I 02 0 9 &) ditto a i (hart.
10210 )
$714 Charles Steers, * * snare.
ditto I 10 shares.
3084 ditto • 12 shares,
19131 & ) j ames Steers, 2 leach.
1913 a ) J
539 George Watson, 1 5 lhaies.,
iaw6w G. SIMPSON, Cafhter.
PROPOSALS,
For carrying the Mails of the United
States,
On the following Pnfl RoaJs, will he rcuived until
thefirji day of Marc/} next inclujtve :
1. From Charleftun, S. C. fcy Jackfonhoro' and Coofa
hatchy, to Savannah, a week. Receive tfce Vlail
at Charkfton every Tueiday and .Friday by 6, P. M. and
deliver it at Savannah the next Friday and Monday, by 8
A, M. receive the Mail at Savannah evt
Siturday, by 6, P.M. and Wednesday by 6, A. M. and
deliver it at Clmrlefton the next Tuesday and Friday
by noon.
Fropofah for this route I will be reteived by the pojl-majier at
Savannah.
2. From Coofahatchy to Beaufort oncc a week-
Receive the mail a£ Coofahatfhy every Thursday by 6,
p, m. and deliver it at Beaufort by noon on Friday. Re
turning, leave Beaufort every Friday fcy 3, /r. m. and arrive
at Coofahatchy on Saturday by 8, a. m.
Proposals for carrying the mail an this route will be re
ceived by the poit-niaftcr at Beaufort.
Note 1. The Poft-mafler Genera! may alter the times
for the arrival and departure of the mails at any time du
ring the continuance of the contracts, he j flipu
iati»g an adequate compensation for any expence
that may be octafioned thereby.
Note 2. For every hours delay (unavoidable accidents
excepted) in arriving after tSe times prcfcribcd by con
tra<ft, the contractor shall forfeit one dollar, and if the
delay continue until the departure qf any depending mail
an additional forfeiture of five dollar*^fhall be incurred.
Note 3. Should any peri'on making proposals desire an
alteration of the times o£ arrival and departure above fpe
cified, hf must state the alteration desired and the price
he will carry the mail for with and tvitfcout such
ration,
Note 4. The contra&s are to be in operation on the
firft day of April next and to continue untd the 30th of
September in the year 1800.
JOSEBH HABERSHAM,
Poll ivfajler General,
. General Post Offiee, >
Philadelphia, Jan. 13,17^6-3
Jan. 16. d6w.
FOR SALE,
At Whitefides' Tea Ware-Hpufe,
No. 99, North Second Street.
Imperial f Hyson Skin.
Hyson, > Frejh Teas. <Souchong,
Yoting Hyson, j C.l3°hea
Dec. 9. 3tawjm.
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM M'DOUGALJi willop|n hisfchool on Mon
day the 31ft inft. at ten o'clock in the morning, at his
Elegant hew Ball Rooms,
In Fourth, between Chefnut and Walnut Streets.
Hours of tuition for young ladies, from 10 to 1 o'cloak
on Mondays, Wedneftlay, and Fviday mornings; and for
young gentlemen from 6 to 9 o'clock on the evenings o
the faiue days.
In addition to a. number of new cotillions, he means t>o
introduce a variety of Scotch Reels.
Note. The firft pra&ifiug ball to be on Tuesday e
vening, the firft of November, and to be continued every
Tucfday, during the season.
For terms, &c, enquire at his house, N0.134, Market
ftreet.
oa. 17. »hf
CAUTION.
WHEREAS very large and heavy debts are justly
due and owing from mefirs. Blair M'Clenacban and
Patrick Mtore, of the city of Philadelphli, merchants,
trading tinder the firm of Blair M'Glenachan and P.
Moore, and from Blair M'CUnaehan in his separate
capacity ; to which, by the laws of the land, all the
joint as welt as separate property of the said Gentle
men, is, and ought to be, liable. And whereas
it is clearly and fatitfa&orilv af'ctrtained, that mr.
Blair ypClenachan, of the faic! firm, has conveyed
away to mr. John H. Hujlor, his son-in-law, to his
daughter, miss M'Clenacban, and to his son, George
APClenachan, several large and valuable real estates,
as well a» considerable personal property, in the city
and csnnty of Philadelphia, in the county of Lancas
ter, in the county of New-Callle Delaware, ind
elsewhere, with a view, as it is apprehended, to de
feat the Creditors in the recovery of their just debts.—
This is, therefore, to forewarn all persons whomso
ever, against the purchase from the said grantees, or
either of them, of any portion of the said real or per
sonal property, as the molt vigorous measures will
without delay be taken to render the fame liable to
the jtrtt demands of the Creditors.
By order of the Creditors.
Thomas Fitzfimons, "J
Philip Nicklin, /
Isaac Yharton, Committee.
William M'Murtrie, I
Samuel W. t'ijher, -J
Philadelphia, December 17th, 1796. 2Cth.s
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE caution introduced into the public prints,
waruing all pcrfonr against purchaiiog from the
grantees of Blair M'Clenachan, any portion of the
large, real and petfonal estates he conveyed away to
his fon-in law and to hit children wa» the result of
a deliberation had upon the fubjedt by a general and.
numerous meeting of the creditors as well of Blair
M'Clenachin and P. Moore as of Blair M'Clena
chan individually. It was no more than an execu
tion of that trull confided in the fubferiberg by
those creditors : a step which it would have been a
breach of duty and honor in them to have omitterl.
The very ftatecnent of the fadt therefore must dis
pel the imputation that it was" either " precipitate
.or vi«di&ive." It originated in a defne to leoure
the property of the debtor as a fund for the pay
ment of his just debts. It was fan&ioned by the
advice of council as a measure necejfary to the lafety
of the creditors. If the advertisement hat been
injurioßS to Mr. M'Clenachan he owes that injury
to his own Hnjaftifiable conduA, not to the fub
feiibers who have merely puWilhad the truth is
terms as mild as the fa& would admit, and wlio
mean to invefiigate in a high court of justice the
validity of tho(e purchases of which Mr. M'Cle
nachan so confidently speaks.
The fubfcriUers therefore are bound by a sense
of duty to the creditors in general to repeat their
caution againtl purohaling of those grantees or
either of them, and to extend the terms of it to a
purchase from any other persons (if fuck there be)
to whom Mr. M'Clenachan may have made similar
conveyances.
(Signed) T. FITZSIMONS,
P. NICKLIN,
ISAAC WHARTON,
WILLIAM M'MURTRIE,
SAMUEL W.FISHER.
Phtlad. Dec. 21, 1796.
03" Those printers who have been rcquefled to
publish the firft Caution, are defire4 t publifti this
also.
Washington Canal Lottery,
N0 . I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland* has autharifsd
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
two hundred, and fifty dollar*, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Washington, fro** th Po
tomacto theEaflern Branch Haruour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz -'I Prize of ao,ooo dollars, 30,000
I ditto 10,000 10,000
7 last drawn 7
Tickets, each j *' 000 ">°°°
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,000
ao ditto 100 »,000
5.5 ditto 50 2,750
5750 ditto ii 69,008
To be raised for ths Canal, 16yli®
5850 Prizes, 17JP00
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
The CommitTioners hav» taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid ael for the pun&ual payment o:
the prizes.
The drawing ef this Lottery will commence, withom
delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after ths ,
drawing i 6 finifhed, shall be considered as relinquiih.d for
the benefit ef the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signefl) NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, o/D
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
W m . M. DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
Cit of Waihipgton, Feb. 11. j
Far Sale,
By the Subfcribers—ln VENN-STREET,
65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
Izuported by the Eagl^.
WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
Nov, ,30 woe J
Le Breton,
S UR G EON-DENTIST,
Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Dentist to the
King and. Royal Family of France, member of the
College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris,
Keeps a complete aflortment of every thing necefTary
to be used for*he
Preservation of the Mouth and Teeth.
Patent Minoral Teeth, and Human & Ivory Teeth ;
Dentrifke in powder Opiate ; excellent Elixir for
sweetening the mouth and preserving the teeth—he
alio furnishes Brulhes and foft Sp nges.
* m * He lives in Chtfnut-Jlrcet, No. 135, above
Fourtij-ilreet.
November 26. tts
Twenty Guineas Reward.
RAN AW AY froai the fubferiber on the 23 d O&ober,
a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSES; 21 years
old; about 5 feet 8 inches high ; had on a mked green
coat, with a green velvet cjape and oval yellow buttons;
a striped vest ; a pair of dark spotted pantaloons, and
whole boots much worn. It is probable he may change
his name and dress. Vie has been accuftoi?ied to driving
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will be
paid for fccuring him so that the fubferiber may get him
again, and if brought home all reasonable charges paid by
Robins Chamberlahie.
Ballon, Maryland, Nov. 10. 14 ■Sinnawtf
Horses taken in,
For the Winter Season,
And fed on clover hay at the Subscribers place, 12
raile. on the Bristol Road, where good (tabling is pro
vided, ind great care will be taken of them
William Bell.
Nov. 23. mwfiwmthtf.
Samuel Richardet
T) ESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE m the
city of Philadelphia;
The Subscription Room will b$ furnilhed with all the
daily papers published in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos
ton, Baltimore, together/with thole of the pri/icipil com
mercial citiss of Europe—They will be rttgularly filed
and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
of French Liquors; together with the usual refreikments,
will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the nioft,
approved Malt Liquors from London and other breweries.
The Larder will befupplied witja the prime and oarlieft
productions of the Scafon.
Large and fraall Parties, op single Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hours most convenient to fheoifelves —a cold Collation is
regularly kept for conveniency, the Billof Fare to be had
at ths bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furniftipd, and
the utmost atuntien paid to cleaulinefs, and every other
requifitc.
'£? Samuel Richardet will behappy to receive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfekf that nothing on his part fliall be wanting to pre
serve that'patronage with which he has been so diftingutfn
ingly iionored.
Philadelphia, April 19. mwf
A Manufactory FOR SALE.
A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufa&ory, fiiuate
in a convenient part of the city ; the works altnotl new,
on an entirely original con{tru£tion, and built ot the Left
materials, and may be set to work immediately. Persons
whowiflato purchase, arc requcfted to apply at No 273,-
South Second Street.* September 13. ttf /[ j
SWAN N'S
Riding School, Horse Academy isf Infirmary,
Adjoining the Public Square. Market Suect.
T. SWANN
RETURNS his sincere thanks to those gentlemen by whom
he has been employed, during his residence enfjiia JCity, and
flatters hnnfelf that the success ot his eifuits, in the m»merous,
obstinate and dangerous diseases in Horses, in which he has
been consulted, together with his moderate chargcs, will fe
ure their arid recommendation. ,
He now begs leave to inlorm ihem and the public at large
that his Ipacious and co:nmodious prcmiics, ercClcd tor the
purposes above de-scribed are opera for the reception of pupils
of either fox, who wilhto bcinttruttcd in the Art of Hiding
and the right method of governing their horses, so as to ride
them with ease, elegancc, and lafety—their horses will be
carefully and cxptfditioully broke, for everjy purpose, and
made obedient,tot he will of the rideis ; the natural powers
which are shut up in them, will be unfolded by art, calling
forth uniformity ot motion, and giving to that noble animal
aM thole beadties of attion which providence has so bounti
fully be (lowed on them.
Also, it his hospital, every disorder to which the horse is
liable will be treated according to the rules ot art, confirmed
by long and repeated experience.
The utility of the above institution has never been qneftion
ed, that ic has long been wantediii this city, every gentleman's
llud wvll manifeft, ar>d T. Sw ( a»n as the firft eftahlither of
the vetercnary art, solicits aad relies upon the support of that
public (which he is ever anxious in fcTving) to enable him to
bring it to perfe&ion. The idea of a fubicription for ?hat
purpoCe has beeu hinted by several gentlfinnn, who wilVi to
promote the institution—the amount of eacn fubfcripiion to
be returned by services in any of the detriments he orofcflTes,
agreeable to the rate of cherg;*s (latcd in ins hand bill. Such
fubicription is now ooeu, and the signatures of many rerpe£t
'able gentlemen already obraintd. He therefore injorms his
hiends and fui h Ladies and gentlemen to whom lie has not
the henor of being known, that he ftiali iff* a few days take
the liberty of waiting upon them and folicuing their lupport
and proteflion.
N" B. Horses ore properly prepared for those Ladies and
Genilemeiiwho wilh to be inftruded.
Nov. 5. tlh&f.
this day is published,
A new method of keeping Bill Books,
Adapted for the ease and convenience of merchants
irt general ; but particularly for those who are ex
tensively conctfrned in trade: exhibitujg at one
vjew, all the bills which a merchant may have to
receive ur pay» in the course of the whole year,
for each month feparaiively. And thereby pre
venting the trouble and inconvenience attendant on
the mode now in use, of fele&ing the bills due in
each month ff,om the promiscuous entries of fevcral
months.
To which is prefixed,
A table (hewing the numher of days from any dny
any ntonth, to the fame day in any other month.
Philadelphia, printed for and iold by R. CAMP
BELL & Co.
January 2. tawtf
Trcafucy Department,
September IS, I 796,
NrOTICB is hereby given, that prupofal* will be re
ceived at the office of the Secretary of the Treasury
until the expiration o£ the firfl day of March next en
suing, for the {apply of all rations which may he required
for the use of che United States, from the firfl c|ay of
June, 1797, to the thirty-firft day of May, 1798, both
days inclusive, at the places and within the diftriAs here
after mentioned, viz. At Ofwego; at Niagara ; at
lfte; at Sandulky Lake, and 011 Sanduiky
River; at Detroit; at Michilimackinac; at Fort-Frank-
at Pittsburgh ; at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hamilton;
at Jjort St. Clair; at Fort-Jcfferfon; at Grenville; ai
l J icque Town and Loramies Store; at Fort Adams; at
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance ; at any place bslow Fort
Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Eric; at Fort/
Steuben ; at FortMadac ; at any place from iort Maftac
to the south boundary at the United States on the river
Miflifippi ; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiatanon.
If fupplies-ihaU be required ior any posts or peaces not
mentioned in this notice, all such supplies {hail be ftir
nifiied at prices proportioned to those to be paid at thd
posts beiore recited, or as may be -hereafter agreed on
between the United States ami the Contra&or.
The rations to be are to con&t of the fol
lowing articles, viz.
* One poumJ two ounces of bread »r flour. '•
One pound two ounces of beefy or fourteen ounces of
pork or bacon.
Half a gill of rum, brandy or whiflccy.
One quart and half a pint of £alt.~"\
Two quarts of V inetrar, ( , . .
Two pounds of Soap, (P" hUndrcd ratlGl "
One pound of Candles, J
The rations »re to be furnifhod in fach quantities. as that
there shall at all Units during the said term, be fuiTiciect
for the cAnfumption cf the troops at IVlichilimackinac, De
troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, for the term of fi£ month* in
advance, and at each of the other'pofts, for the term of
at lead three months in advance, in good an d wholelome
provisions, if the fame (tall be required. If is to be unj
dej-llond, that the Contra&ot isto he at 'he ex«ence and
rifle of iffuii g tile fopplids to the troops at each poll, and
that all loffe. iuftained by the depredations of an enemy, or
by nnsans of the troops of the Uniied States, (hall be paid
for at the price of the articles c.iptnredor dei'.royed, on
the depositions of two or more persons of creditable cha
raiiers, and the certiS»ate of a corr.miflioncd olSccr, as
certaining [he circumstances of the !ofs, and the amount
jfff ths aitklcs for which oompeufation ihali be claimed
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
By Authority.
Schuylkill Lottery.
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, Nt>. 64,
Siulb SecontlJlrcH.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
For railing Sixty Thousand Dollars, agreffcbly to an Aft of
the Legiflaturc of Pennsylvania, pal Ted dating the la;t
-fefliOn, for building a Stone Bridge over the River
'Schuylkill, at the Borough ot Reading, in tbe County of
Berks. Dollars.
1 Prize of 20 000 Dollar® w 20,000
1 do. of 16,c00 do. • - 10,000
3 do. of 5,000 do, - - 15,000
4 do. of 2,000 do. - - 8,000
20 do. of 1.000 do. - 20,0c0
39 do. of 500 do. - .
80 do. of 200 do. - . - i6,0c0
'200 do. of 100 do. k . ao,oo©
300 fio. ©f 5 o do. - 15,00®
Ido4 of 500 do. to be paid the ?
. for ©f the firft drawn uo+\
5 do. of 3,000 do. to be paid poifcfTors >
of the five lad drawn aos t
9,400 do. o *5 : - 141,000
10,051 Prices goo, 000
10VC46 Blanks —
30,000 Tickets at Ten Dollars 300,000
AH Prizes (hall be piid fifteen days after the drawing is
finiftied, upon the demand of a poifeflor of a fortunate
qicket, fubjett to a deduction of twenty pef cent. The
Drawing will commence as soon as the Tickets are 'difooird
ot, or perhaps sooner. ot which pufc/lic notice will b£ given*
Philip Mtlkr, Peter Kerjloner, William l*ilmcin\
Joseph Hiejler, James Diemer y Thmius Dundas %
jfamer May, John Otto, John Keim, Daniel Graejf,
Sebajlian Miller, Commissioned.
Reading. May the 9th, 1796
Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. a, to be had at the
above office, where the earliest information of the draw
ing of the Washington No. 2, and Pattcrfon Lottery\
are received, and check books for examination and regif.
tering are kept. ,
O&ohcr 7. sawtf
Brokers Office, and jt
COMMISSION STORE.
No. 63 South Third iW«et,oppofite the national new Bank"
OAMUEL M FR OUNCES and JOHN VAN REED"
O have entered into co-partnership,, under the firm of
FR OUNCES & VAN REED, In the business of Brokers,
Conveyancers and Gommrfliori merchants. They buy and
fell on commiflion every ipecies of stock, notes of hand,
bills of exchange, houses and lands, &c.
- Money procured 011 deposits, &c. &c. -all kinds
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatnefsand
dispatch; accounts adjusted, apd books fettled, in the
most corred manner. . Conllant attendanci* will be given.
They solicit a share of the public favor; they are deter
mined to endeavour to deserve it.
N. B. The utmost secrecy observed.
S A MUKIf M. FRAUNCES,
JOHN VAN REED.
Philad. Auguft"a7, 1796. V m&wtf
Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64, South Second street.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 2, for sale a
Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
the late lottery.
Check Books kept for examination and r filtering, for
the City of Wafhingtoa, No. 1, and Pattelon Lotteri«,
both of which are now drawing—information whtire
tickets are to be had, and prfiies tachanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School' Lottery, for
examination.
The lub&riber foHcits the application of the public
: and his friends, who wifb to purchase or fell Bank Stock,
I Certificates. Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houxes, Lands,
l See. or,to abtain money on depoGt of property.
*- * Also 1 ickcts in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery fer
sale at Ten Delhir« each, whioh will be drawn early in
1 the Spring.
Wju. Blackburn,
Philsdelphia, August 18, 1796. mth
. PRINTED BY JOHN FENNOi
—No. 119 —
CHESNUT-STRBHT.
[Prise fight Dollar# p«r Annum,J