cf iije .and Philadelpbia haiiy 'Advertiser.
'VVtiaiLR 1568 j
SALES BY AUCTION.
* ~ v Sta'tdiSales
Far I) R r GOOD S.
C Forenoon —Edward Fox, No. 56»
• JtfW.W ,/ I>o ro^' ftrcct > , ,
1 Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 65
C South Front street.
f Forenoon—John Connelly, .Old City
Auflion, No. 73 foilt'h Frortt-ftreet.
Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
C **3 High-street.
Wiintflaj J A; f rn^2^T r enfon ? No> 74
- r south Ehird-ftrcet.
ThurCdtiv $ Forencon —Edward Fox.
ay V I Afternoon—Jeho Connelly.
Friti-iv ( Forenoon—Wilkirg Shannon.
"'' J Afternoon—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
For HAMBURGH,
' . 'HE Copper Bottomed Ship
v Jh l FA VO RITE, John
Thompson, Miller, now at
C\'\ i Wright's wharf, and will be rea
:'y to take in on Monday next,
part gf her cargoheing engaged
and ready to go 011 board. The ship is lo well
known, that it is needless to describe her. She
ie now in eompltat order. For Freight or Paf
laffe, please to apply at Mr. Jeremiah Warder's
Compting House. No. la, North Third street,
or to the Mailer on bord.
Angiift 10. * 1
■For SALE,
On board the Ship, SwediOi Iron, afiorted
Kollowand Demyjahns, Wrap
ping Paper for Sugar Refiners, Rug* of 1 & 1
Quality. Please to apply aj above.
wf&m4w
White Havanna Sagar.
I4M boxes') of very fuperiorquality now difcharg
-7; hhds. ( ing from the lhip HamVuigh Packet,
at Walnut Stre«t wharf—and for sale by
Philip Nickiin & Co.
N.B.
the sinp
Hamburg Packet,
SitAs Swain, Matter,
®Sfc£»i»fe=32 For Sale, or Charter.
Aug. 14. eotf
TO BE SOLD,
And pojffeJJion given immediately,
ALARGK cwo story brick House, handfomcly
situated in Princeton. There are four roon»
and a large entry on each floor, and five rooms in
the garret, a of- back buildings 51 feet in
length, and a piazza of 57 f«Qt. There ie a pump
in the yard, an excellent kitthen garden, at thu
farther end of which are a carriage houfc and two
{tables, one of which is new, 44 feet long, with
flails in the two (tables for 17 horses. The heal
thiness and pleafantnefi ot its situation. and the
number «f genteel and agreeable families ia and
near the town, render it a desirable retreeat for a
gentleman from the city. The comraodioufncfs of
the house, its central pofuioo, and the largeness of
thfeftables, make it|evcry way fuitableforatavern, for
which it has always been confiderd as a capital
Iliad. Inquire 6n the presaifos, of
ISAAC SNOWDEN.
Princeton, Ang. %{. 19 —dtwaawtf
r COMMISSIONERS' SALES,
r "I 'Ht CommifTioners of ihe counties of Ly
-1 coming and Northumberland, have given
notice that they intend to proceed to the file of
lands, for the arrearage of taxes, on the 7th of
September next.
The different printers in this city will
render an eiTentia! fervace to a gfeat number of
individuals by publifbing this notice.
Aug. 18.
FOR SALE,
BRETACNES In cafe.
German Checks in do.
Camhrick
Plattillas '■
Oznabrips
Gold and lilvcr Watches
Window Glass *o by 8
Glass Tumblers m cases
Linseed Oil in calks, &c. &c.
George Pennttck,
103, Higb-StrM.
July 5- 3 aw
NOTICE.
IF Tbeov O'Hara, who some years fincckept
Schcol at the Nine Bridges, Queen's County, Eas
tern Shore, Maryland, be living, he is hereby re
minded to call on, or write'to, the Rev. Ambrose
Marshal, near Warwick, Cecil County, Eastern
Shore, Maryland, from whivn he will receive in
terefling information.
AugtiJl 4. mw&f4w
THE SUBSCRIBERS, "
ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GREINLEAF,
HEREBY give notice, that they have difpoled
of thepijoperty assigned to them for the securing
the payment of the notes acceptances, and en
dowments given by Edward Fox, for the use
ofthefeid Jaipes Greenleaf; and the holders of
luch nojes, acceptances, and endorsement*, are
hereby notifyed that the fubferiberu will fettle
■with them for the amount of their refpeilive
claims, both principal and interest, at
any time before the asth day of Oiflober next;
after which day, the holders not applying, will
be excluded, agreeably to the terms of aflign
ment.
Applications to be made at south-east corner
of Dock and Second llreets (the Dock-street
fide), between the hours of eleven Ind one o'
elockeYtry day, Sundays excepted.
Henry Pratt,
• 7ho. W. Francis,
John Miller, jfun.
'John AJhley,
Jacob Baler-
Philadelphia, Augiuft 18, 1797. d '
The Inhabitants of the Diftrift
of Southwark, 1
RE informed that a Coachee is provided, to bs
X .i. kept at the Constables' office, the north east
cemer of Pront and Almond streets, w"here the
friends of those lick persons defire to be rs
moved to the City Hospital; are requeued to make
applica-ian —Also, a Heatfe will be kept in rcadi- .
lids Tor the removal of the dead.
JONATHAN PENROSE. (
N. poor, who wi(h to remove to the '
Tents on Schuylkill, may be fumiihed with order.s
ky applying m above. Aug. a 9
PHI LAD F. LP HI A: MONDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 18, 1797.
WANTED
Bills on Amflertfam, at a fiy,ht not fix
ty days, and with apjn oveii Ir.dorfers, to the amount
jf two hundred thousand guilders— for which calh
will be paid at,the rite of thirty eigjit cents a gwil
cr~u"^rP^ cat i°Jis.to be made to George Simpfwl,
» Esq. CaQiier eft he BanU of the United .Stages.
4'- dtf
NOTI C E * .
f Is hereby fifiven to the inhabitants of the
, of Southwark, that a meetiug held at tVie
. Oomttiinioner's room, ©n Friday evening the
inft. at 7 o'clock, to take into confideratiop, ard a-
dope meafuresfor the of the property of
our fellow-citizens from daring cobbers.
JON. PENROSE.
Sept. 14.
Young Hyson Tea.
40 ehetti of a superior quality—Also,
100 do. of Hyson,
Imported in the fVaadrop Sims, and for sale by
1 the (übfcriberj, corner of Second and Pine
1 street.
C. Haigbt.
Jane 21. estf
Imported in the Jhip Pigou,
And for file by John Morton, No. ij6, South
Front-street,
Hyson
Hyson Skin f snv s c
Tenng Hyson £ TEAS
Irnperial \ j
April 20. eotf
This Day Published,
Andt© be fold by WILLIAM YdUNG, corner of
Second and Chefuut ftietts,
Ptice 3-Btbi of a Dollar,
Obfervatiens on certain Documents
Contained i«i No.*V and VI of
" The History »f the United States for
the year 1796,"
In which the ch «idc or speculation againll
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secretary of the Treasur, is FULLY
REFUTED.
tr rlr rb k Br uims s1 r.
This publication pl-efents a ccn<ife statement
of the base means praitifed by tha Jacobins of the
United States to asperse the characters of thof«
persons who are confideredas hostile to their difor
gaoizing schemes. It also contains the cor
respondence between Mr. Hamilton and Meflrs.
Monroe, Muhlenhurgti and Venable, on the fub
jeift of the documents aforefaid, and a fifries of let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha
milton, proving beyond the possibility of a doubt,
that the connexion between him and Reynolds,
was the result of a daring confpiraey on the part
of the latter a»d his alTociates to extort meney.
A difcoust of one third from the retail price
will be made in favor ot wholesale purchasers, for
cash. Orders to be addrelTed ts Mr. Yo>no.
Awruft 15.
The Norfolk Mail STAGE.
THIS Stage starts from the GEORGE Tavern,
at the corner of Second and Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, every 'TufJ lay, tburfday, and Satur
day, at y, o'clock, ia the tr orning ; arrives at Do
ver the firft day, at Snowhill the second day. at
Northampton Court House the third day, and on
the morning of the foHrth day the palfengers 6nd
a fafe and eomfortabk packet to convey thorn to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton fotry,
every Tuefd :y, Thurflay and Saturday, and the
Stage ftart'. from this ferry for Philad«lphia, every
McnVay, Wodnelday and Friday ;',put» up at Snow
Hilt the firft night, at Dover the id night, and ar
rives m Philadelphia in the evaaing of the third
day.
The distance on this rout:, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, it to miles less than on any stage route
between those places.
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road,
which is most excellent indeed. The proprietors
willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
paffengcr, who, after having performed this route,
will fay. that he ever travelled in a stage for the fame
distance, so good a road in America.
• August 11. dim. eotf.
Philadelphia, 15th July, 1797.
NOTICE is hereby given, that separate pro
pol'als with sealed covers M ill be received
at my office until theelevenfh day of September
next, to furnilh by Aintrafl the following ar
ticles for the use of the Army of ,the United 1
States in the year 1798. ,
First Contrail for
8 Sergtants coats
a Mulic-ians, do. |
10 .Sergeants velh j> Dragoons.
I*6 Privates coata I 1
126 Privates vests J
64 S rt S tants coats ,
31 Musicians, do.
96 Sergeants vests '
191 Woolen overalls Artillerifls
»9» Linen overalls &
936 Privates coats Engineers'.
936 do. vests
1871 Woolen overalls
187 a Linen do.
144 Sergeants coats '
»i 6 Sergeants vests
43a Linen overalls
43* Woolen do. Infantry.
t?93 Privates coats
1891 do.» vests :
3784 Woolen overalls ]
3784 Linen do. J * a
rft Contrail, for 1188 Sergeants (hirtj
Xtßi6 Privates do.
4 11600 Socks
ad Contrafl, for, a-a pair breeches '
3d Contrail, for 17a pair boots 1
4600 pair Aioes, No. 1 5
8000 pair do. No. a j
4th ContraiSl, for 103 a Artillerists and Engi
neers hats
aioß Infantry do.
136 Dragoon caps i
The whole t# be delivered at the city of Phil»- j
* delphia, viz. j
One fourth on or befort the ijth day of Fe- t
bruary next.
One fourth on or before the 15 th day of A
pril next.
The remaining half on orbeforc the ijthday (
of June next.
The articles are to be agreeable to fheh pat
terns as (hall be direiled by the Secretary for the
Department of War,
Payments to be made as f«on as the article ®
(hall be delivered, and palfed in(pe<!lion. "
TENCH FRANCIS, Purvey<n>^
eotnth^ep.
by John Fen no, N >a 119 Cbefnut Street.
Late.ly PubiiflieJ,
In one vol. S Mn. f pric*- one dclhr 111 boards) fold
It by '.VILLI AM VOONO, toriK* of Setond iikF
Chefr.ut ftreete,
1 CoUeftion of Papers on the f'ibteftof
BiHiCus Fevers, prevalent the United
States for a few years past.
Compiled by NOAH fFPBSTUR, jun.
Containing letters from Uoflors Seaman, Jitsiith.
I But I, i'aylor, Ramsay, Mmtfon, Reynblds, Mitch-!
e ell, on contagion, &c. &c.
1 Set* It:
f City Commijfiotters Offi.ee,
Aug"uft 29, 1797.
IN pur futince of an Ordinance of the Select aDd
Common Councils, pa/fed the aid day of May last,
Proposals in writing will be received by the City
CommifiionCrs for one month from the rft of Sep
tember next, for letting to rent on leal'qs for ote
year to commence the firit day of January next, the
following public property of the city—
The wha-f and landing on Vine Street,
Al£o on Saftafra?,..
Mulberry,
And High Streets,
Chefuut and Walnut Streets, Draw bridge, with
tha Scale and Filh WoufeS, Spruce, Pine and Cedar
Streets.
, The cellar undtrtb^City-Hall.
The liavern at the middle rferry on Schuylkill,
with the lots contiguous thereto, (except so much
thereof as shall he occupied hy any buildings eredl
ed for the use ofthe Colledlor of the Tolls, or b«
neceflary for ths toll-gates.)
Arl g- 3tawim.
LOS %
ON the PafTjuuh Road, between the Blue Ball,
and the tity, a Fowling Piec«, with a brafj
bairel and silver figjit; nn the plate of thebuttare
th« letters "-Jamaica, 0 99-' and on the barrel
near the lock <• JLondoc ' and thfc Tower (lamp.
Whoever will return the aidpi»«r Bim.a.J,
at thefigiAjf the Blue Ball on the Paflyuuk koad,
or the office of this Gazette, (hall receive a reward
of Four French Crowns,
Sept. ia.
bUTY~ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT ajreeably to an a(9 of Congrcfi of the
United States of America, pafled at Phila
delphia, the 48th day of May, 1796 ; laying du
ties on Carriages, for the conveyance of persons, !
which (hall be kept by or for any person, for his (
or her own use, or to let out to hire, or for the
conveyance of paffecgert, the several duties and
rates following, to wit :
For and upon every Coacb, 15 dols.
upon every Chariot, I a dols.
upon every Post Chariot, 11 dolt,
upon every Poll Chaise, ia dols.
upon every Phaeton, with or without top, 1
9 dols. J
Upon every Ooachee, 9 dols.
upon other Carriage-, having pannel work ;
above, with blinds, glasses or curtains, ■
9 dols. * ]
upon four wheeled Carriages, having fra- ]
med pods and topi with (leel.fpringi, 6
dols.
upon four wheeled Carriages, with wood
eo nr iron springs or jacks, 3 dols. !
»pon Curricles with top*, 3 doll,
upon Chaises with tops, 3 dols,
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols.
upon oth«r two wheel topearriages, 3 dols. '
upon two wheel carriages* with steel or
iron springs, 3 dols.
For and upon all other two wheel carriages, 1 dols.
upon every four wheeled carriage, having
framed pods and -.ops, and relling up- t
on wooden spars, a dols. I
The Colle&orsof the Revenue for the firft Sur- <
vey of the ,Di£lri«£l of Pennsylvania, will attend I
daily, until the 30th day of September n*xt, lor 1
the puipofe of receiving the duties 011 Carriages, at i
Germantown; at the house of Daniel St. Clair,Efq. j
in the County of Montgomery ; and at the houle I
of James Chapman, Klq. in the County of Bucks; ]
of whieh all persons pofftffed of such Carriages are
desired to tal-.e notice.
Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dis
tilled spirituous liquors, that licences will be grant
ed to them ; one licence lor carrying on the bufi- I
ness of retailing of Wines, in alt ft quantity, or I
in lef» quantities than thirty gallons—and one li- ]
eence for carrying on tho bufipefs of retailing Spi- <
rituous liquors in loss quantities than ao gallons, at f
the sam« time and at the fame phces, by the olio- j
ers legally authorised to grant such licences.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpe-Sor of the Revenue of the firft fur
vcy of the DiGrict of Pennsylvania.
Office of Infpe&ion at , 1
Oermantow, lath Sept. 17.9 J. j -
IMPORTED I
2m the ship America, Jame? Ewinj, matter, from
Hamburgh, f
Brown Hollands
"White Piatillau t
Ticklenhnrgs t
Cbai-fc Linens
rr% I
1 apes
Looking Gaffes ">' • r
Glass Tumblers J * '
FOR SALE BV I
George Pennock.
Augufi 14. 3a\v
An elegant House in Arch Street.
TO be let and entered on immediately a large
and elegant house at the Corner of Arch and
Ninth Street. There are two drawing rooms
and one dining room—the largest is 31 sees by
2 6 —and two are so connefled by folding doors
Bto make but one. Also, five bed rooms, be
des s in the garret, well futilhed for servants.
There are flables and a coach house, with evry
convenience for a fairily. Enquire nt No. 49,
m North Seventh street, or at No. a 18, Arch
Street.
Aug. i?. aaw3w.
PETER BORGER,
INFORMS his friends and the public in general
that he has removed from No. 119, corner of
Arch and Fourth, to No. tos North Front, be
tween Arch and Race streets,
I"lv v-
Window Glass,
©f Superior Quality, and cheaper than any other jo
ihe City—
OF rsiRIOUS SIZES, r
From 8 by 6 to 19 Wy 14,
By the (ingle Box or Quantify, may be had at the i
Store of the Subscribers, corner ot Arch and Front
flreet, 1
Ja?nes C. Is?, Samuel W. FiJJjer.
Philadelphia, Jines, 17(7. 'jiwmwftf
'nfurance Company of the State
of
Office WiU be kept pnfil further notice at
A the School Houfc in Gormamown, The
Compatiy still retain the rorm in Vheiuut, a!>ove
Seventh fir peri#* will att.nd to re
ceive and give ansWers to applicatiofia, cvtry Jay
from 10 until 1 o'clock.
Sept.l 3. d3taawtf
Bank of North America,
September %th, 1797*
OV Monday next the Notice* for'all Notes or
Bills at this Bank, I which fajl due'onthat
a:id the enfumjr 6 cuys, will be fccved on the Pay
ers : .And the like Notices on cveiy Monday, till
the further orders of the Dire&ots.—Perfons wish
ing to deposit N®tes or Bills foMDolleiftion, which
are to fall due within the we<*k, mud. themselves
undertake to give notice to the Payers. dtf |
TO BE SOLD,
And immediate pojfejfion given,
A Convenient well finiHied Brick Tenement,
with a cook house other out
atcd in a pleasant part of the borough of Wilming
ton, in the State of Delaware—The lot of ground
h>?s forty ftei front on V/eft-.lreet, and extends
through the square to Pasture-street, on which w
ere&ed a stable and carriage honfe.
ALLEN M'LANE.
Wilmington, Aug. 3d.
Red Port Wine.
Just arrived, by the fcrig Iris, capt Rhodes, from
Oporto,
Red Port Wine in pipes,hhds.and quarter cafics
6t cwt. Cork, for sale by
Philips, Cramond, & Co.
Tulv ar. ' $
The Partnership, <>
the firm of FREE.VaNIS* Company,
is dissolved by mutual consent. All persons
having any demands against the said House are de
-1 fired to render the fame to T. B. Freeman j and
those indebted to the House are desired to make pay
ment to hinv—By whom bufincfn will in future be
oarried on,at'hisStore, No. 39, South Front-ftreeO.
Augufi 7 eod4w
NOTIC E.
ALL those who have any claims against the
estate of John Cole, Umbrella Maker, late
deceased, will apply within amonth from the date
hereof, to Mrs. Cole, at the south east corner of
Green and Second streets, for their arrangement.
N. B. If all demands are not sent in before the
expiration of the abovementiened time, thuy wi'l
not be allowed, as his property will be difpofedof.
Sept. 9. ; ■ > *.lt
Imported inthefhipMANCHESTER,
Benjamin She-well, Mailer,
From Bourdeaux, and for sale by the fubferiber,
No. xi. Walnut Street.
Bonrdeaux Brandy ~l
Irilh market claret in cafe» ( Entitled to
Medocwine, in do. J Drawback.
Sauterne, da. do. J
Thomas Murgatroyd.
WHO HAS FOR. SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter caflca
Rota do. do.
Pimento ia bags
4000 bulhels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stf.
APEUSON OF INGENUITY, lately arrived
from Europe, wishes to find here a place in
the quality of a Director of a Glafs-houfc, Chryf
tal of all Uiuds, having particular means for the
conftruflion of the kilns, pots, &c. and poSeßing
I ike wife the articles used in the Glal« houfts of
England and France, having worked a long while
in mat of tilm;. Every exortion will be made to
render the manufactory defervirgof public
bation—He. who wishes to fpesk to him, will find
him at No. 175 Froqt-ftieet.
August 24. *4t
F<sr sale or to be let on grouhd
rent,
A -valuable Lot »f Greund ;
SITUATE on the north-east corner of Wal
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State-
House square. This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walnut flreet, and one hundred and thirteen
fetft and an half on fifth street ; there are at
prelent two small two flory brick houfc, and a
number of small tenements tbereon.
Alfa, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient floras, wharf, &c. situate on
Water-street, between Mulberry aud Saftafras
ftreetk, containing in/ront on Water street fit
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east
ward iiine:y-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses ,
ave the convenience of a public alley adjoining
on the nerth fide, and are a very desirable fitua- 1
tion for a merchant, flour fa<llor,or others who 1
may have o'ccafion for storage of goods. This 1
property will be fold on very reasonable terms 1
forcalh. For further information apply to the
printer. >
July 31. . m&wtf
The Sub/cribcr has for Sale,
A large afiortment of India Muslins, '
codxfe and fine ,
India Calicoes *\ ,
Sooty ' i
D ue Cloth* and Checks .
feandannd Handkerchiefs
Blue red and Gilli Handkerchiefs
An invoice of Irilh Linens and Sheetings, wflil
aiforted ' j
A box of Diapers
Silk Umbrellas
Two boxes ©f fine Spicei, cotaininj Nutmegs,
Mate and Cloves .
Black Pepper of firft qualitf
liaft India Ginger
Java Sugar
A quantity of Madeira Wine
Ditto of Gin
Roll Brimstone
Mordecai Lewis.
AugtiJl 11. 3awim
Cedar Shingles.
THE fubferiber has a quantity of 5 feet Cedar
Shingles of Afuneriur qurfty, for fait at 13
dollars per thoufana.
Willi am Hallo-well,
Nt. X 93 Nerth Tbird-firest.
Jbly 57. *ol»t
Jtoly 47,
: 1 homas Herman LeWfer,
North fifth ftrect, .corner of North alley, No. 34,
HAS FOR SALE,
' "EXCELLENT red B»urd«aux Wine in cases aniJ
-i-J boxes, fix years old
'White Griv« Wine in caflw ,
- Ticklenbuigs
Russia Sail. C!r-th»
Ravens Duck
Bag Linen
Heftiaos . .
Diaper and. Table Cloth
Empty bags.
Caramon G«rman Cloth
a n affortmentef black coloured Ribbons 1 _
Fme German Laces
About twelve tons Russia clean Hemp
Clover Setd
Italian Soap, in fmalhboxc*, for family ufr
Window Glass Aug. 19 taw
THIS DAY WAS PUHLISH-EDj ~
And for ("ale by THOMAS DOBSON, at the
Stone House, No. 41, south Second street,
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED.
Confiding of a variety of Mifcellatjeaus Pieces Tor
the inftrudion aud amusement of YOUNG PER
SONS—SixVolumeshandfomely prntedand bound
up in two volume*, price Two Dollars.
The variety and excellence df thefa pieces are
fudi, that the book needs only to be known to be
universally esteemed one of the most valuable pub
lications th.t can' be put into the han<f» of young
persons.
" Delightful talk to rear the tender thoughf,
Ts teach the young idns how t.i fhaot.
ro pour tfce frefli inllruAion o'er the mind.
To breatheth' enlivening fpirit,and to fix
Thegeneroas purpbfe in the glowing breast."
Thomson.
n3wf4W
THI!> L> \Y IS Pt; BLISHSB,
By THOMAS OOJE.SOA' >t th( Stone Houfa,
No. 41', south Second ftroet.
Letters and Conversations,
Between several Young Ladies, on improving and in»
terefting fubje&i.
Translated from the Dutch of Madame dt Camion
with alteration; and improvements,
Printed okfine paper, and neatly bound,
» Price one dollar.
AMIDST thetide of modern Romance!,painting
twle« «t extraordinary diilrefs, or of desperate or
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," and
which it would be for the henor of young ladies to
be ignorant of, this little bosk comas forward to so
licit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, net ex
ceeding the bounds of real life, the proper, btcaufe
elegant and natural dignity and importance of the Feptale
cbara&er is exhibited in an interesting point of view,
and presents examples of real and attainable excel
lence.
The publifter was fomuch pleafedwith the pern*
sal, that he was persuaded he ihould do a pleating
service to the community by fending it in o circu-
Auguft 14—OW4W
ToMaftert and Pilots bringing up Veffclc
from Foreign Ports to this City.
\ T7"Hereas sundry infringements have lately been
VV made on the laws of this state for the pro*
venting pe&ilential or infeftious dlfeafes, either
from ignorance or inattention thereto, it is tho't
expedient at this time to publish the following ex
tracts from the laws of aid April, 1794, 7th aad
Bth fe&iooe.
HEALTH-OFFICE.
. June 6th, 17^4:
Ext raft of an stH for fe curing the city and pert
of Philadelphia fram the irttrodußion of p*fl 'c
lential and contagious difeafts.
Sect. 7. And be ic further enaded, that every
matter or captain of any (hip or vessel eerniog from
sea (vessels actually employed n the coafttng trade
excepted) and bound to any port or place within
the jurifdiflion of Pennfylvania,fhall cause his (bipi
or vessel to be brought to anchor, or othfrwife ftay
e I in the dream of the river Delaware, oppefits to
the Health-Office on Stau-Ifland aforelajd, aacl
th< re to remain until he shall have obtained a
certificate er bill q£ h«l'-}i'fr»m the Resident Phy
sician. And ii, pfevisufly to obtaining such Certi
ficate or bill of health, any mailer or captain (hall
ftiffer his (hip or vessel to approach nearer than the
said Health-Office to the city of Philadelphia, 00
lhallland, cause or fuffet to be landed, or brought
on (hore, at any place or port within this Ccm
mtmycalth, or at any other port or place, with the
intent ol being conveyed into this Commonwealth,
any, p-rl'on or persons, or any goods, wares or mer
chandize, or, if after receiving such bill of health,
0.-certificate, he (hall neglcdt or refufe to deliver
the fata* to the Health-Officer, such mailer or-cap
tain (flail forfeit ana p--y, for each and every such
offence, thefumof rive hundrei> dollars.
And the captain or mafler of every flup or ves
sel (hall fend a fafe and commodious boat to bring
the phyGcian 011 board, and shall in like manner
convy him back t» the Heaith-Office, after he ha*
concluded his official examination ; And while he
it miking such examination, or in cafe any fable
qnent examination by the Health Officer or Con
futing Phylictan, agreeably to the directions of
thi» a<s, the mailer or captain (hallexpole or caule
to becxpofed tn thefenrch of the Resident Phyfi
ciar ,of of the Health Officer and Consulting Physi
cian (as the cafe may be) each and every part of the
Ihip or vessel, and shall present to hii view eack
>nd every perfoti cr perfOr.s on board thereof, and
and lhall alfp true and fatisfailory answers malMs
t<y all such qoeftions as the Resident Phvficijn, &c,
at the time of examination shall ask relative to ths
health of any port or place fr«m which the (hip or
vessel failed, or has since touched at—the number
of persons on board when the ship or vessel entered
on her voyage—the number of persons that hat a
Once been landed or taken on hoard, and when,
and whererefpeflively—what perfoits on board—
s they hate been during the voyage, cr (hall, at
the time of examination, be infeded with any pet
tilentiil or contsgious disease—and what is the pre
sent state and condition cf the psrfons on board
with refpe<ft to their health or diseases. And ifj
any master or captain (hall refufe to expose as afore
aid, to the fcarch of any of the officers aforcfaid,
7) if he (hill corneal anyJiciptrfon\*r in any ether man*
[Cr ikccii'c tbe proper officers aforcfaid in lis anfwrru
tich cajwaic or master, for avery such offence, shall
forfeit and pay the sum ol five hundred bo»-
LARS.
Sect. 8. And if »cy rerfon or persons whatf®-
ever (the Resident Physician, &c. excepted) lhali
go on board any vessel, before the matter thereof
has received a certificate of healthln the manner
directed, every person so offending, Hull pay th»
am of om h»nered DoLt^Rt,
IT beiag abfslutely necessary that the foregoing
feiSions (hould be pundually complied witl , th»
fiibfcribcr, m compliance with his duty, mu(j ex
aii a rigorous obfirvance of tho lame, or else be
unigr tlw i)««ffity of putting the law* in fsrea.
VV X. ALJLKN, Health Officer of t'nt
Port of PiiladJpbia.
J»ly.r4. *
[VOLJ'MB XII."Seo ic i nt a.
* THP. Poor v. ho may find fc inconvenient, froih J
ma'tc use of Mr Htfuyen's truly me*'
ritnrioKs oC-i\ w'fi he s;ppU«;t with ItleAiciues —
f.»o, barley, &c. Ivy as>-lyir>B ac the p,
ftobf'.'tMwSr'S ftorc, No. -,i; riTflrkcMltcet.
R.OBEK 1' S. STAFFORD.
The Ileitlth-OffiriT ~
l*-r*re<rwd so the City-H£H, a>ud. S* kept open
r.ifht aAd-day, where person* having bufin f»l«ay .
W.M. ALLE>J,Health-Officer. 7 11
'f ( .r,,j 4 . dtf It
TOTI c k. e
of Vhe DepritWntgf VTar arc
tV.c pr ft > t r :~: ov<?u near to iHri Fal.s of the Scuyl-
U\\l, Ml . r r.n K iv.oc £o*A» -
r a' . _ •
- : I
\NroRMS her frrflida,#nJ the public id general, a {
t' -. 1 u r Honte; N*. Matket-lireet, con
til-Hie o(.<:n during the fieknef*.
Lodging in 5 fepa-ate room, ten C(
-r ' in a double room, eigkt dollars. tt
For tW convenience ol thctfe gentleman who
ha<c nsf (lv-ir kiTmiies in totvn, Mrs. ©rattan >
will rec.-ivc i entlemen to dine at half a pOtUR
« '«y. . *
f; ij': ra nt#Compafts'df^scri.b A mer ica.
r ~j ""filE 'Stoekholdert ill this eompfcfy are here-
X try informed, tint, pursuant to the fifth
tllauCcnf their Charter. and >t the request ol a f<
"
pronator* of Six Thousand SJians, and up
wares," a fTenet-al meeting of '.h? Stockholders
'will lie held at che Company's OlJ.ee, on Mon- .
ti.iy tiifc 25th day ot September next, at 11
o'clock, A. m. fAr the purpose of filling up a
vacancy in their Direction ; and taking into
conilijt rati/»b ftfch fteenlatiors or Bye Lavs as c
luiy be prt'l'ented in conformity witfy the Char- (
t«i of Incorporation. c
'EBEN. HAZARD, Sefry. f
July 10. W&ftSa j j
~ Rofs & Sim fort, ,
HAVE tOK SALE \
r
Eicellent Coffee in < Tierces, and
t. Psrrel«.
A irr -.-11-arcel of nice tccoa in bai'3 '
\ few puncheon- jafr.nica spirits, fourth pract '
?uperi#r Teneriffee wine,*old and in ■
An invoice of jewellery and hosiery t» be fold by
the package
a few liampefs bell EnglMh chetfe.
July 27. j_ 1
Imported iiTthe latcfl arrivals from
Afiilfcrdam and Mamburp, 'and torfale by
B. J. Bohlen,
A large ajforttoent of fine* French Cambrics,
Platjllas KuflEa mid Dutchlailcloth
Brittannias , Wiitirg, post, and priht»
Rotianes ing paper
Brbwn Holland I)n f ch calf (k!n«
ChecksVnd llrij>es Prim? madder
Tickle'ihurgs SbellM 3arley
Cznaburge Looking'g'affes
XVhite Iheetings Hollow glafc wire
reaper Slates
Brown rolls Coffee mills
■ Ijmbrcllas Brass kettles
H vr ribbons Scythes and straw knives
JBlack and white laces Toys afTorted in boxes
Bell Ilollind Gill in pipes
London partifurar Madeira Wine
July 14.
Higgins* Specific
FOR TH»
PREVENTION AND CURE 9F THE
YELLOW f EVER.
17* VER since this difcjfe m:.de such ravages in (his j
-J city and New- v ork; the author has turned his 1
attention to its cause' and cure —The result of his
enquiries has convinced him that the reafor why so
Jew persons recover f om its attack", are {rum its
not being well undet.lood, and the confcquerit
v.rong method taken so cure it. He is.perfuadcd
' that the exceflive bin digns and mercurial reatmer.t
of the Faculty is irjurious, and that the on
ly rationahnode oftreatment ishy ufe of prop :i <
acids. CoTvince '</ this he offers his Specif' as a
certain rsmetiyjif used according to the d're<slions.
To be had in bottle.', at one dollar each, of the
invcntfcr Cjov Cherry street, two doors a
t)6*e Kiwtli ftre'er, (lat» manager of JacUoh and
Co's Medicine V'Wc+TOfiß, London); by J. Le-
Hauc, No. 2' ft W. Griffith, No* 77, T. Purer, No.
ii. SoiS'fh Third street, T. Stiff, No. ftrfct,
near Vir e £lreet> and j• No. 36, Race street.
Aug. 25. tuths
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, and
CONSUMPTIONS.
Jutl received, by Wm. ORirFrrus,N«. I?7,South
.Seeond-ftreet, f. frefli supply of
Genuine Bal/atn of Honey,
A Medicine invented by the late Sir John Hill
jTi. (wko knowledge as a Botandt procured him
the appcliVton ef the Linnieus of Britain) and is
•onfidered in England a,? a certain cure for the above
cpmplaints ) it is aLso of singular cfficaay in th«
Hooping Cough,
It mayalfobe had retail of W. A. StoSHs.No.
61, South Second street, and T. STitr,' jJ. New
ilreet, in bottles at 7 j cents each.
Wm. Griffiths having observed the happy et
fedl of the medicine, (several cases of etires hav-.
jag come within his own knowledge) and the greaft
demand Y for it has induced him to order a
fupp'y, a part of which he has just. received. \
Augufij,. " iawjw
At" a Meeting of the Board o£
■ , Property, Ju;ie/i, 1797,
PrefcrU John Hall, Sce'ry.
Francis Johnfton, It. O. >oflandoffice
* Din. Brodhead, S. G- J
Nicholas Bcttinger,
■vcrfus V
Ssmuel Cunningham.) :
Il»th« rafettie proof of fervjee of notice be
ing i liuficießt, It isordtred that notice be giv
en jn one of the Philadelphia and York newfya
pcrs weekly, for at least eight weelts to the
heirs or aflignees of Samuel Cunningham «le
ccif'.d, to atttend the board on thefii ft iWqnday
' in November next, to (hew caulc why a patent
fhouid not iffne to Nleholas Bettingei for the
land in qiieftion.
( A true Copy,) •
JOHN H4T.T,. .
Secratary of the Land Office.
Aug. 15- * lawgw.
Chocolate and Mustard
Manufa£l'ure4 as ufnill,
and S t-pper ground
Shelled or Peril.Barley
Boiladelphia Porter, Beer, Ale an'd Cyder
f.nn'lon I'orrer a
"tauntin an.l Button Me
Ufcd Port and other Wines,, eithe bottled,
In :he pipe, tlaartfr-.caflt or '(rallor,—fuitillle
for ixportatien «r hotiip toiifimtption —
> For S.i'r l.y
Job. 2 Hjpfiortb.
No. 93 fouih Front ftrt*^
%f)t It
V —ft or
PHILADELPHIA, hou
MONDAY EVENING-, SfPTi MREK 18. '. lav
A letter from theXgtfl of Sep- l" or
teftjber, to a gentleman in tliis rily, m«ntions any
<tliat the yellow fever has again appeared in der
ihat town, and that it is attended with much P at
more malio-nant symptoms than it was when the
it prevailed in the year 1795. an(
Extraft of a letter from a gcrtllernSn in Ral- :ts
tirnore, to hi? friend in this city, dated de
September \ :o>. eni
" The calamity which now afflifb your
city i>i about to be extended to this town.-*. an
I wrttte yon in niy Lit that Ft IPs Point was bli
affeft'ed with the yellow and the wea- t' l
ther which has succeeded cannot have indu- <?<
ced a tjelfef that it is checked. At this «d
moment they are fuffering the evils attached
to that dreadful scourge 01 our cities." t^J
" I S'
Tothe Iksprctprs of the Hkal'th Office na
for the Port of Philadelphia.
fa
GENTLEMEN,
Agreeable to yoiir request we now lay be-
fore you the following brief relation offsets, ,
Hate of the City Hospital.
Since the commencement of this inftitu- t j
' tion, 169 patients have been admitted into j
it. Of this humber, 69 have died, 31 have
! been discharged cured, 8 have eloped, and
1 Si remain in the Hqfpital :of whom 14 are
> convalefcenta. Unfortunately the difeaf«s
- of many of these patients were so far advan-
ced previous to their admission, and the in
formation we r&ceived concerning them so £
- imperfeft, that it was impossible either to c
render them any effedfual medical relief, or t
to form an accurite opinion of the real na- (
ture of their complaints, at the firft attack. L
Several of these had received some medical
affiftan'ce before they came under our care, j
while o{hers were totally jnejlefted during
8 the whole course of their illuefs. Of tiiefe r
1 many died from 2 to 24 hours after their .
admission into the Hospital. In thfc present j
return 17 are of that description. (
J" A great number of the cases which came
under our observation are billious remittent j •
fevers. A few have aflumed the appearance i
of th'e Typhus ISero'idts attended veith fymp- J ,
toms which indicate a cdnfiderable degree of ( .
malignity. One was the natural Small .
Pox, another the Hooping Cough, and in
two the molt firiking fyftiptom was dyfei)-*
tcry. The malignity in many inftauces has
probably been much increased by the unheal
thinefs of the places where the sick hare re
sided, fueh as small crouded houses in nar
row, confined, and badly ventilated alleys,
as well as other circumstances frequcnt
■s ly attending those who dwell in such places.
These circumstances have been rendered still
more unfavorable by the general desertion of
the sick, which has been a confequenee of
- the present alarm.
Not having been yet called oh by the at
tending phyiicians in the city and suburbs,
to-vifit the sick now under their care, we
cannot give a decided opinion respecting the
,; s contagious or pestilential nature of the difeaf
i!s !es in those parts. We can only fay, at pre
-1 s sent, that though the Hospital has been al
!" readyMrened 4 weeks, no ioftanc6 has oc
ltf curredot its being communicated to tl>c nu
c(j merous attendants whose duty obliges them
r.t to be among the sick both day and night,
n- in all Situations and jn all stages of tbe Fe
r j ter. Nor have any ot the grave-diggers, or
' 3 those employed in removing or burying the
he dead, been in the least affefted. We are,
a- extr*mely happy that we have it in our pow
ud ertocommunicatethispleafinginformation, as
it may in some measure, contribute to lefTon
the dread of receiving the coßtagion of the
t.' disease by attending the sick, and prevent
that general desertion which we have nft
doubt has eonfiderably encreafed the mor
id tality.
We are,
Gentlemen,
, Your most obedient servants,
SAMUEL DUFFIELD,
i» EDWARD STEVENS,
Phyjicians to the City Hospital,
Published by order of the Board,
; h ; , Wm. MONTGOMERY,
Chairman, pro tem.\
to, / / V
w " '/Mk. Frnno,
/The following observations were written
IV . a gentleman at the westward, on the oc
-'jf cafion of the Yellow Fever in 1793, andde
'/e signed for publication in the Pittsburgh Ga
zette. As they have never appeared in
_ print, i» may not be improper to give them
a place in the Gazette at this time ; several
hints are thrown out of which an ufeful im
provement may be made%
; cc A"Subsc(iiber.
Tothe Printer of the PittsbOghGazette.
" It appears that from the 1 ft of August,
be- when the contagion firft appeared, to the
iv- x ith Oftober inelufiye, there have died in
7a- Philadelphia ef all ages, sexes and disorders,
lhe 1,247!. Of these 217 died in August, 12 21
|' lc " m Septembef, and 809 iii Oftober to the
„ Hth. The mortality seems to have been
the progressive, though not regularly/ being
much greater on sultry, than on cool days.
On. the lit of August there died 8 ; on the
s}h 1; on the Bth 10 ;on the 30th
which is the highest number in that month,
and on the 31ft, 15 ; in September there
~ died from so to 87 daily; 011 the 4th of
.1 October, 'there died 56 ;on the 9th, 94 ;
on the 10th, 72 ; on the l Ith, 101 ; which
is the highest number that died in any one
day before thflt. It is probable that in this
der ftatemeiat the deaths of the ci:y alone are in
cluded ; forin another statement in the fame
pamphlet, the burials in the C ity and Li-
Ijij bcrtieip thofameptn'odamount L 02737.
The real condition of the city on the 16th
Oftcber is ilnted to 'oe this, that since this
mortality raged, 300 c perfone have died, a
" bout 25'jCOO haveTfft the city 5 and abovt
4
3e,«ooremaw Ijeha-.0.i fhat rnaAets are chn
plentiful, beef, 7U. mutton, sd. veal ft. Ing
butter from ic>d. to if. per lb. that many J>ru
ft ores are jHU open ; not more than half the ]
houses are dt ferted ; and that the Banks cip
have not ceased difcountinga fingh day call
lince the commencement of tae disorder ; ert
for above two mouths they had hardly 1 had tin
any rain, and .not above ttrt ur twelve mo- bet
derately cool days ; but a fall of rain accom- am
panied with cold weather on the night of pel
the 1 ;th Oftobcr, gave flattering profpefts i'ev
and introduced t fie favorable-change. I co
On the firit appearance of,the disorder, tin
its dangerous nature wasnot fufpe£led. The me
deaths were received with the ufuai eo
ence. Had that f«r, which afterwards be- Ti
came so enceffive, been timely awakened ; 10
and a Hufpit-il, which afterwards was ufta- mi
blifhed at Bu.li-Hill, for the reception of ot
the lnTefted, been provided iu the tirll ilage j m
of the disease, and dtjeifive measures adopt- I ex
ed to prevent indifcriminale communication at
between the sick and the healthy, and Hop
the fprtadifig of the malady, its fatal pro- fn
grtfs might probably have been soon termi- ti
nated, and the calamity assuaged. tl
Though terrible, it has not been generally m
fatal. Vast numbers of the sick jfrom four t<
to fcver.ty years old, have recovered perfeft h
health, one, two Qr three persons in a fami- h
' lv have been infected, a#id the remainder, al- h
though tliey have unremittingly attended
the sick, and put them in the coffin, have u
1 escaped the contagion, all the, attendants in a
, the Hospital at Bftih Hillaresn good health; si
many persons infefted it Philadtlphia, have f<
died ih different parts of the neighbouring ii
s states, and'yet, notwithstanding, they were n
well attended in their sickness. There is si
no authenticated inftanae of their communi- fl
' eating it to any who have died, or been very t
0 dangerously infefted. Yetfogreat has been f
1 the apprehension of this dreadful fc«urge, i
that social conneftions have been torn afun- 1
' der, the feelings of humanity foppreffed, and r
precautions praftifed, which even the strong s
' Ipw of felf-prefervation hardly juftified. ;
p The defcrtion gf the Philadelphia market j
threatened to add famine to pestilence, the (
ir alarm spread over the continent; Public 1
11 fafts were proclaimed. Proclamations of 1
quarantine were ilTued by the Governors of 1
IC Maffachufctts. New-York, Maryland and 1
Virginia; Persons and goods coming from 1
" e ! Philadelphia, were excluded from many of
I the neighbouring towns ; and the mife
i rable people, driven by a pestilence at home,
. were refufed reception abroad. Some paf
ln fengers in the New-York Stage, becoming
sick on the road, were turned out, and a-
j bandoned by all, and denied shelter, or nou
rilhment, periihed of hunger and fickntfs.
e " Instances of the like nature Occurred on
r ' the Laricafter road. Even in Philadelphia,
s » there have been many cases, and some of
persons in great affluence, where the infeft
•n ed person has been deserted by his friends,
and resigned to the cart of a single negro.
°* Some have been so entirely destitute as to
want any humane beingto hand them adrink
of water, and have died in an empty house
without any to perform to them the last offi
)8 ' ces of mortality, and remove their bodies to
ve a grave. Parents have deserted their chil
'l>: drcu, children their parents, husbands their
1 wives, and wives their husbands. Perhaps
re " a fourth of the dead have been facrificed to
a '~ the consternation of the living. When the
,c " early terrors were dilpelled, these defertiwns
IU " became rare.
»rn " ,
, t As a traveller, who wandering through a
r e ' barren waste, or the desolation of a tempest,
fees, at the end, a fertile field, a-verdant
j wood, a refrefliing ftreare, and & fair dwell
re ' n g 5 your readers, will turn with pleasure,
w ' from this melancholy jlifture of human na
aJ ture and human misery, to what juftifies the
- n maker of the heart of man, and does honor
jj,, to thtfs organs of divine mercy. While
, n j phy(icianß, magistrates and people were fly-.
no fr° m the devoted city. A generou^
ol band aiTociated to check the progress of thij
disease, by the uniound from the\
' found, to adiniuifter tomfort, aourifliment,
and cure to the sick, leflen the honors of
the bed of death/-remove the bodies of those
who. had none to bury them, aud take to
their bosoms the orphans, whom Providence,
callipg off their parents, consigned to their
cfcre. They formed themselves into various
committees ; and borrowed ®oncy of' the
\ bank North America for the relief of the
\ diftrefles of the afflifted, and the benevolent
objefts of their association, Stephen Girard,
ten I with hi® co-adjutor Peter Helm, undertook
oc the management of an bofpital at Bulh-hill,
( | e _ for the reception of the infefted ; and, like
j a _ a father watching over his children, eon-
J j n ftantly attended the tick, wiped off their
cm sweat, and performed offices of kindness, at
, ra j which nice feelings, in any other circuraftan
|m ces, would have revolted. Mathew Clark
fon, the mayor, Caleb Lownes, who so
highly contributed to the improvements in
the city Jprifon, Israel Israel, Thomas Wif-
TF tar, James Ker, Samuel Benge, James
Sharfwood, Henry de Forest, Thomas Save
ry, and others, whom Providence felefted as
1 . the instruments of its mercy, have retrieved
in the charafter of humanity, acqiiired the gra
er *' titude and bleflings of their fellow-citizens,
221 and if, as the Author of our religion repre
l'ie fents,in the procedure of the last day, it be a
? en criterion of virtue,, thus to vififc the sick,
l "g have, like good and faithful ftrrants, secured
l y s " the approbation of their God. Four of
; these generous men, Andrew Adgate, Jo
"7" ' nathanjtD. Setjeant; Daniel Offley, and Jo
-1 ' feph Ihflieep, failing a facrifice to their bene
icy,i volent o crtinns, have been taken oway to
1 0 receive their reward ; and I trull have left,
W' ia the memory of the living, a legacy to their
nch 1 .
one .f [Fr .m the Marjhal's return, mails 19th
this Auguji, 1791., there were tnthe City of Phi
■ in- Iqtlilphia, 28,522 persons 7 and in the Suburbs
ame 13,998; in all 42,520'; It has letn lowpu-
Li- ted that London contains 800,000, .or
137. i,000,0c0. From one of the weekly bills oj
6th mortality, that Ihtipptn to have, the burials it.
this that -week were 378, <wd in the preceding
1, a- week had ben: 434, wki;h u rather more flat
,'QYt 73 each day.
i
. " Y.• i .■< ■■ ■■
chudren ami frtentlj, Jitbri yaU«j3e and lall- 1 "powe
ing, than all the wealth cf the feliifh and to o\i
prudent man. nine
It is not to be fuppoftd that these prin- fhou!
ciples of benevolence, though most strongly the c
called for, and therefore most strongly ex- inch,
erted, on the scene of d'tlrefs, ihould Vie en- than
tirtly confined to, Philadelphia. At Elici- quae
beth-town, and Springfield in New-Jerky, one :
and at Elk, afyhim,'. have been opened for lty t<
persons from Philadelphia infected with the two
fever. The New-York common council have rant,
contributed 5,000 dollars for the relief of latte
the poor of Philadelphia, under the manage- auiri
ment of the At G'oucefter by p
county in NW-Je-rfey, at Sale in, Darby, to i;
Trenton, Burlington, Laricafter, Germati
; town, KingfefTnig, Providence, Montgo- /
- mery, Wilmington, Pottfgrove, and various/
F other places, liberal fubforiptioris have beaf V
■ made for the fame humane purpofe,and il/is ' fwci
- 1 expefted the fubferiptions may eventuailytoe ; beer
) adequate to the necefilties. • j blee
3 Would it not become the people on this 1 whe
- 'fide of the rilauntains, to throw in their mite j alor
- to assist our futferir.g lir-thren in the day of. lar 1
their calamity. Let thctai&ft heedless but a the
) moment refleft on the vr.vious and complica- j»van
r ted evils which thjs fearful visitation must | pro
it have brought with it, and left" behind it, and j any
i- his reflection will unfold a tale, that will j and
[- harrow up his foul, and freeze his blood. fuel
d Biit thtrc is also another way in which per:
re we may contribute to raise their funk heads, per
!n and, in our measure, assist to lefTen the ef- avi
1; fe&s of that calamity, under whith the un- hie
ie fortunate city must long fuffer. Consider, I a
g in thft disaster how maßy poor mechauicks onl
re must have been deprived of their daily sub- ant
is fiftance, and how many young merchants and Le
i- shopkeepers must have been cast back in of
rf the world. We have it in our power to do P Q;
:n fomethirig for them. As soon a* a coneft- the
e, ion with Philadelphia is unquestionably fafe, nie
n- let onr ihopkeepers prefer Philadelphia ma- hy
id nufaftures and goods, and buy nothing from b°'
ig ahy other place which may be Lad there ; to
and let us encourage our Ihopkeepers to this ver
et generous and charitable duty, by dealing bu
he only with thoftf, who do so. This is the
lie heft kind of charity ; the receiver gains
of without any to the giver. While a /
of connexion with Philadelphia was dangf- /
ad rous, the current of our trade run, or was/
im about to run towards Ealtimore. To thq we
of honor of many 6f our Ihopkeepers J""
fe- chose to decline or delay their usual pur- 1-'
ie, chafes, rather than desert their old friends j)'
as- in the hour of" their distress ; and lam con- 1°
ng fident that those whose circumftafices would th
a- not permit them to exert this generosity, dc
su- will when they find it fafe, turn their custom j*
:fs. into its usual eourfe : for it would be aruel ')
on to add affliftion to the affiifted, and as it ec
lia, were perpetuate their calamity, and make q 1
of its effects lading. '
ft- Our merchants will find it their interest to tl
ds, renew their dealings with Philadelphia. The p
ro. long stagnation of trade requiring a sudden tl
to supply of money to support the credit of the d
Ink merchants there, and the death of many of c '
use them throwing all their goods, and the car- j 1
>ffi- goes configncd to them, into the market or "
to vendue store at once, wjll make goods cheap- a
hil- er there, than in any other place on the d
leir continent. And let every mas among us P
aps in his tranfaftions in Philadelphia, single out j<
:to those for out preference and favor, who in h
the this calamitous time, have discovered that ti
wns they have hearts of men, that they feel for y
the woes of others, and live not to them-! 11
r jj a fclves. And let us all avoid, and have no !'<
dealings with those who meanly shrunk from j F
| an .' the duties of humanity, and wrapping them- | F
selves up in the narrow bounds of their own , ( -
y" welfare, left their afflifted neighbours to y
' kjifery, despair and death. 1
\ CHREMES. <
jnor Nov. 13th, 1793.
hile 1
/ MR. FINNO, r
! The doftrine propagated by some of the 1
tht faculty in '93, jnd it ill insisted on, is preg- ■
t j )e \ nant with mifcliref, and more injurious to the
t prosperity of the city, and alarming to tht 1
, s citizens than " the ytlow fev?r" itfejf.— ]
o j- e This doftrine if Admitted will ruin the city *
,"q more effeftually than the raging of any pef- '
nee tilential fever whatever :—who would wish
tjc ; r ' to live in a city, in which such dreadful
vail ? I prefunie it is not a Jefirable thing.
t L £ If I should be convinced of the truth of this
) ] en '" t doftrine, it would induce me to fell ©ff my
aix! efta'e* even at a loss, seek some healthiir
spot, and bid an everlasting farewell to Phi-
ladelphia.
Knowing, however, as I do, that human
ingenuity can invent and cosfirm whatever
,j lc .- r .it pleases*—invent arguments even to defend 1
at an error ; lam led to believe the doctrine
'^ aH so be falfe and groundless, and has originat
lJr], ed in the bewildered imagination of some"
5 f 0 whimsical man or r.umber of men, who in
ts in • f° me mcafure possess ability to defend, main
ly;" tain and support, by plausible arguments and
physical doctrine, however absurd and fright-
j av |. ful. ' Their arguments, however, have made
ed as no iroprefiion o't my mind to conviiftion, and
• e( j tl hope, never will—l am too well acquainted
with the Subtle insinuations of shrewd and
Rra- r
ztns craft 7 men
. ' Now, Mr. Printer, conceiving as I do,
be a 'njnri.'.is and dangerous tendency of this
'j- j." doftrire, I move and request', that it be com
,lC. i mitted for discussion, to a committee of the
of whole, on ths state of the city. 1 lie fafety
"r° and interest of the citizens depeud on a
,1 r difcufiion of this impoitant fubje<2t. After
ben" ' c hae been fairly and impartially discussed,
every One may judge for himfelf end aft ac
'jef." cord'ingly. If this doctrine is true, let it be
their known > 18 P ot tTUf ' ' et 11 be con(^em , n "
611 ed by public authority, and be done with it..
■1 gth This will ease the minds of the citizens, and
'Phi- restore the cha rafter of the city, which it has
lurls kjft by this pernicious and detestable doc
'iWpu- trine.
or Shall we, whose interest in the city is
lis of great, fufier i?to be riiinsd by the fantafti
iii/s in cal assertion of a few doftors, who conceit
:eiiing themfehis more wife and knowing than
elban they really are ? I hope not. I hope not r
I ftiail endeavour to prevent it with iilmy
- V V
power. i>y «■»/ of c.» K'l'.t*.,;, ji-rrail me 4
to oWcr/e,'that the i>,>vs'of tliisdoc
tiine have | jft the I'tjriiMrtice which they
fhoold study to preftrw—Tuat In future,
the citizen will place nfbie confidence in
fiich, whom they in dtrition c'«ll quacEs,
than in collge-hred quacks. A «»11« ge'-bred
quack is fmne dangerous than a felf-bred
one ; the .former, having acquired fomc abil
ity to write now and then a or
two in a public pa;nr, to d.+c'\\c the igno
rant, and "impose on their credulity ; the
lattc+, not having had an opportunity to ac
quire literary ability, to introduce himfelf
by paragraphs to puhlic notice, endeavours
to introduce himfelf by fucflsfsin nraftice.
\ A CITIZEN.
/ MR.
I What purpafe can any man expeft to attv
! fwer by informing us that 40 men have
; been found, whom it was impracticable to
i bleed to death ? Reverse the card, and
5 what figure does this nuznbeV of names make
' along fide the black lift of victims to fimi
! lar wanton experiments on. human life ? Bnt
j the bleeding gentry know they have an ad-
I.vantage, and have all along fedilloufly im
j proved it—They know it would 1 »t do'for
j any one to come forward and fay, that such
• and such men died bv e&ceffive bleeding :
such a would not be borne—and yet
perhaps the individual who is capable of
perpetrating such atrocities in purfmt of a
favorite system, is little better than he who
bleeds you for your purie on the highway.
I am confklent, nevertheless, that it is the
only effectual way to fileace thofc clamorous
and prating satellites of this grand parvscea.
Let the dilciples of blood publish statements
of the number of their cures and the pro
portion, that we may contiaft them with
those of the other system. What is it to
me that any man is earned through a fever
by having all the blood drawn out of his
body, when I know that three fall victims
to a similar practice for every One that reco
vers ? I pin my faith 011 no man's sleeve ;
but truly fubferibe myfelf
""♦iv _ An Enquirer after Truth.
! / For the Gazette ef the United States.
. / MR. FEHNO,
j In the Agreeable romance of Gil B!dt,
J we have an excellent summary of the rncte-
J ria tnedica of certain bloody disciples of Ga
. len, so rampant in the revival of the lunatic
s system at a more modern period. The sol
. lowing is the account given by Gil Bias of
i the fuccefsful praftiee of his matter Sangra- t
■ 3 do, in hiis own words A" He had the fatil
n faftioa of feeing twenty persons perish dai
;l ly under His treatment, and was so perfuad
[t ed of the excellence of venefuftion and fre
e quent potions of warm water, calling them
his 'tivo Jpectfics for every species of disease,
a that instead of attributing the lose of his
ie patients to his remedies, he believed that
:n the sick never died but for want of having
i e drank enough, and of having loft a fuffici
-5f cut quantity of blood." Gil Bias,
r _ had been his pupil and long praftifed upon
3r his system, observed to his companion with
3. a dolorous tone, as they approached Valla-"
le dolid, that " his conference frcretly re*
proached him at the memefft ; and that it
Jt seemed to hinv as if all the sick whtrm he
in had killed, were about to rife from their
at tombs to tear hisi in pieces." The reply
ur wa# at once natural and apt. " What an 1
n . idea ! really Siguier de Santillane, yciu ar£
10 to ° gwd. Why do you repent of having
m performed your talk ? Look at the oldeit
n- physicians : have they any such remorse ?
yn Oh no ! they always jog on in their course
to with all the tranquillity in the world, lay
irfg to the blame of nature all' disastrous
eveuts, and arrogating tredit from every
thing of fortunate iflue."
\ Le Sage, though he long langtrifhed in
ihe (hade of poverty- and obfeurity, in a
he Aittle cottage on the borders of the Seine,
y. and in the neighbourhood of Paris, where
he he gave birth to that excellent satire which
hi has immortalized his name, was a phyfieian
_ of Ml, experience, and great" reading,
ity »Those who for mcrre than fifty years have
e f. bee./ charmed with his wit, and struck with
[fh admiration at his profound knowledge and
f u l intimate acquaintance' with the ways of
re _ mankind—their arts and schemes—their
,o-. tricks and contrivances—their incaufiften
cies and contradictory vagaries and plian
cy tafms—little forefaw that the absurd and
; lT murderous system he had so fu<*eefsfully ri
'hi- diculed and exploded, would (o soon be
revived, and so foott give rife, to a necessity
jan for the exertion of similar talents a gain ft
ver -similar folly and wickedness.
nic j , Some physicians, while they would avoid
; ne the dangers of this violent and defpenite
, a t_ remedy, set up by some for a panacea,
ime - would wholly exclude it from the prafti.ee
; n of medicine ; and indeed it has been ad
vanctd by I many ingenious physicians, that
and venefeftion in conjunftion with emetics" has
ht- destroyed more than the sword—so just :s
ad e the observation of the great Latin pott :
and Homines, dum villa vitant, in icohtrarij ciir
tecl runt. But without running in eoniraria
an J Humanity loudly calls on the oblh'nate
adherents to the violent system, to advert
Jo now and then to the manim,—medium
thi's ITER VTt TUSIMUS IBIS. - -
— ~FAR-\CELSUS,
tliC
r cty COMMUNICATION. /
n a Net'et 0 Mariners StiUtf bit* tie 2V/ i/Sav-iwub.
r. A l-.rge Buoy is pi-ce 1 r,n the outliflc of the LV.J
f C , in the deepest v, attr, having all the lca-\iajr mir!t»
e » Jli, the Ivacoß and light boufc in oue, hearing W.
»C- - N. dillant 4 miles. Another Bnoy lt« ill the.
tbe fame I'ireSion, btie mile within the Ear, x third
mn - wu« mi!< further up, besting W. by N. from the fe
•• crfiA, and a fourth one mile N.\V. by W. ix>m the
II j' third ; 2fter pafling which there are fafe
an frr. a !arpe.fi«et in tour and five fathoms at low
has water, the li;;ht hcue. [.earing 8. S. W.
ioc- N, l!. I'he Buoys areall placed in the heft wa'cr,
having i chaniTel half a mile to tire northward,
• and«c:ie fourth the i'mithw-ard, in thsj narroweli
y, 1 . 8 jpi-tce-, and nearly the faiwe depth of w*ttr— I !"here
a '. are twenty feet on the bar at lowest.tides.
'^ elt Ali Printers are recju«fte<3 to give this a place-in
than tl,^ r r «,ers as Jotiij, "and at arjr time vhen'ccn
r>ot.. v anient. IV.d bO. - ' 1 01L1 Cp,
1 my (G'orjii) v Iry ~•FOREIGN iNTELUGENCK. }
—— • ; n
VENICE, June 28. ' p
Our municipality hia publiflied a pvocia- I
hntion, itiyitirrg the Greek nation to tKVow ii
vS the of ariaocracy, aiid unite with p
the Venetian*!. A' letter to the patriarch g
of Montcncj;io has Jikewife been o
hy wlvich hf is invited to inftriict the brave c
.Montenegruiß in the principles of Demo- d
i «T-tcy. As Sebenieo, in the Venetian ter
ritdty, the French consul has been murder- C
rd, with hi', wife and children. A great t
iHir.jer of Turks and Montenegrins have c
the inhabitants of Cattaro, in Vene- l
tifln Dalmatia ; so that there is now a body ; i
of 30,000 armed men, -who acknowledge 1
jiaitter thf power of the French nor that
of the Au(iri?.jr„ r
' July 10. i
Le Feron, the commander of the place, f
has issued a:i order from the commander in , c
chief of the French forces, dated the. 3d 1 t
of July, ordering all the soldiers and per- ' ]
fail? employed by the administration who j
are in thip city, and not" to the I
garrison, to join their refpeftive polls in
2.f hours. Tlmfe who have any extraprdi- (
nary renfons for (laying, mull apply for :
p.?rmiffi«n to the commandant of the place. 1
Tiiofe who violate the order will be arrested, '
and punithpd at the discretion of the com- ;
hApderin chief.
Our municipality has imposed on the
city of Venice, and the neighbouring dif
trift of Dogado, a contribution of 2,50 a,
* 000 ducnjts, payable in ten months ; and
those who (hall delay their payments eight
days after that time, (hall pay ten per cent, i"
v more ; nnd this decree is to be executed in
a military manner,
A part of the inhabitants of Spalario
having , teftificd a desire of cdabliftiing a
republican constitution, # they were attacked
by another Marty of the inhabitants, who
; were of a different opinion. The latter put ;
' polonel Matutinovicli and his wife to death, I
for wearing the dress, and pcofefling the \
fenuroents of that abominable feft, the Ja
cobins.
S Letters from Lweca state, that the go
vernment of that little republic is diflolved.
A detachmest of French troops from Le
ghorn took possession of the territory of
Lucca on the 4th instant. Ihe nobility
made their escape, and the tree of liberty
was to have been planted the fame day.-
BASLE, July
• A great revolutionary spirit has (hewn it
felf in this country—Since the Valteline has
seen the Milanese free themselves from the
domination of Austria, a great fermentation
lias reigned in the country. At Sablo,
Tirano, and in other towns, Societies cal
ling themselves popular, and engaged on
polititical queftjons, have formed themselves
I and have openly profeffed th«s principles of
democracy. Their brothers and friends the
Lombards have come to fraternize with their
neighbours ; and />n the 13th June, the
people rose en mnjje and drove away all the
■ civil officers, and declared themfejve* inde
pendent. Proclamations were instantly pub
lifhcd, this measure. The inha
bitants of the Valteline- denounced the vio
lation of their privileges, and the tyranny
exerciftd against themby the Grifons. They
have even proclaimed the Rights of Man,
and art now Occupied in forming a Consti
tution. "•
COLOGNE,June 27.
The works which h*d lately
begun at Duffeldorf, are now entirely laid
aside.
ui&kß RHINE, July 1.
The fortifications which the French had
. erefted at Deux Pouts are now dismantled.
A confidence part of their*cavalry lately
returned to the left bank of the Rhine at
» Andernach.
The Princess of Wirtemberg made her
public entry into Stutgard on the 24th of
June, and received a visit from the Duke of
Deux Ponts.
' FRONTIERS of PIEDMONT.
June 18.
Ten thousand French troops, which were
intended for the Gcnoefe territory, are now
on their march for Turin, where great com
motions happened on the 12th. The King
has retired to Montcallier. After the The
atre at Turin was (hut up, papers were port
ed up with these words, " The lAtlle D't
reßory has (hut up the Theatre, -but the
50,000 are not o£ that opinion."
As the Sardinian troops near Novara, con
fiding of 10,000 men, have received no pay
for some months, the king proposes to fell
some domains to procure money for them.
. At Mondovi, bills have been polled up,
with the words " Liberty or death J"
"BRUSSELS, July 22*
On the firft of this month Prince Wal
dcck passed through our 'city, coming di
rcfit from Vienna ; he went immediately to
» Lide, where he was sent on The part of the
emperor to loid Malmefbury. This Prince,
who was formerly in the Service of the U
nited Provinces, does not appear to be in
verted by the Austrian ministry with any
diplomatic charader. It is said the objeft
of his mission was merely to interest the Bri*
ti(h negotiator in favor of the prince of Or
ange and his family, in order perhaps to en-
V deavour to obtain his re-inftatement to the
Stadtholderftiip, or an indemnification pro
portioned to his loss.
Whatever inta eft.thc emperor may take
in favour of the house of Orange, we are
assured that the English cabinet are still
/' more in Jttieir interest, and that the Stadt
holder, who in was restored by the
able negotiations of Lord Mafmefoury (then
Sir J. Harris) (lands in no need of media
tion for the support of the British mgciator.
ROME, July 5.
The duke Ue Brafchi, nephew of tlie pope,
I *" '• •' * .h • ' r >
V" ■ e - • - ' • I / V *
wlio lias already sent ieverat J ltd
foreign c6untri«s, / fias just sent two rrfili.ori.i a
more in gold aud silver to- Maple;. lie ?.
propofis, to purchase the principality oF i
Francnville. This .circumftaVice has k
increased the lcarcity of money, which fur '
pafies all belief. It draws the hatred of a li
great part of the people againlf the relations f
of the pope, and augments the general dis
content, which is every day mare openly
displayed. v
The three principal Spain, £
Cardinal Loreny.ano, archhilhop of Toledo,
the archbishop of Seville, and tlie archbishop h
of Mufquez, cSgnfeffor to the queen, who,
have Madrid, have received very I
important inilnadtions from thekingofSpain. r
His Majesty, it is said, desires, f
I ft. That a council may be convoked, if f
not a general council of the catholic church, f
at least a provincial., council, in which tiiea- 1
ftires are so to be taken for the reformation
,of the regular and secular convents through- f
out Europe. It is also in contemplation to 1
' preserve throughout Spain only forir relj- i
gious orders, the Dominicans, the Auguf- (
tins, the Cordeliers, and the Carmelites.
2d. That the cardinals of the Roman
catholic church out of Italy, (hall have an
a£live and passive voice, and may afpirc as
well as Italians, to the papal dignity.
3d. That the conclave for the ele&ion of
a pope (hall be held alternately ip the diffe
rent dates, where the lvgman Catjjolic reli
gion is established.
4th. That the penitentiary court (hall be
eftablifhad at Madrid, furnifhed with prope?
powers ; # fo that in future it (hall uot be
necessary to fend to Rome,
j" sth. That the Spanish bilhops shall be au
thorized to confer benefices, and to grant
difpenfationa of marriage, without having
recourse to tbc Holy Father.
* INSPRUCi* July j.
We are generally perfuadcd hefts that
1 Mantua will be restored to the emperor.—».
Some letters even go to the length of Hating
tlint the Au(lrian troops are already in post
session of it. But bow this is to be recon
ciled with the lad accounts from Italy,which
state that the fortifications of Mantua are
repairing with great dispatch, and that new
.magazines are forming there, besides other
circtimftance?, which lead us to suppose
that the French are not inclined to give that
place up to the Auftrians so soon.
RATISBON, July 12.
There is in circulation a printed copy »f
• the deliberations of the college of eledlors,
1 relative to the proceedings and innovations
made \>y the court of Berlin in Francoiya.
1 That copy contains a letter from his serene
, highness the ele&or of Mentz, to his imperi
■ al majesty, and another to the eleftors. In.
1 the latter it is proposed, that a conclufum,
I or decision of the ele&ora! college should be
: ifined. Treve*.and Cologne have agreed to
that proposition—the eleftor palatine is of
r opinion that a letter of representation from
: the supreme chief of the empire (hould be
addrefled to the.king of Pruflia. The eleft
- Saxony and Brunfwick have addrefled
- their representations to his Pruflia a majesty
. dirt<sl.
The eMperor has already, as chief of the
; empire, taken the fide of the oppressed, and
r produced the last mandate from the aulic
, council of the empire against the king of
. Pruflia. In the present state of affairs, the
firft meafnre which the aulic council will
take will be, according to the Geimanic
constitution, to invite some powerful estate
j of the empire to execute the and
i to put the aggrieved states in poffeflion of
what they had so unjustly loft through the
vexation of the Priiflian cabinet'. Every
thing announces that it will be the emperor,
i in his charafter as chief of the hotife of Au
. stria, who will execute the fenteaee. If the
v emperor accepts it (as it is to be presumed
t he will frpm what has pa ft) we shall fee a
new war break out between the two powers
r who naturally detest aacli other,
if July. 16.
f \ Mr. Strave, the Ruffian councilor of state,
presented to the diet his letters of credence,
dated Moscow, April 26. Fie is ftiled Le
gatus Ordinanus to the diet of Ratifbon.
But the ambassadors at the diet, not being
e able to comprehend in what charafter Mr.
,v Strave had been sent, demanded an expla
i- nation from him on the fubjeft. He replied,
g that he was sent as refideut. A deliberation
•- took place on the manner in which they
t- (hould themfelves to the new vefi
ti dent—etiquette, as every body knows, not
e being here an infignificant matter. It was
resolved, after mature deliberation, not to
i- receive the visit of the new resident : ae
y cordingly, when he waited on the different
II ambassadors, not one would receive his visit.
1. This will form a memorable
>, event in the rubric of the etiquette of the
diet. m
July 17.
The imperial court haspublithed a decla
ration stating, that through the means of
the archduke Charles, it has applied to the
0 French general for a suspension of all hostile
' e proceedings throughout the empire, and that
■> general Moreau had given the mod fatisfac
tory affuraoces on that head.
y I.ONDON, Jufy 19.
51 Oh Sunday, for the firfl time, the civil power in
terefled itfelf in breaking up what wa« called Coo
per's Fair-, in theSpa-fielda, in eosfequcnce of the
r " weekly holdings forth o£ a variety of enthufiaftb,
such 4s My {lie, Metltodifti, Quaking Jews, See.
one of the latter description be»Kg csgcr for prfe
>- cuudfa, infilled upon jping into confinement, and
was con-veyed to Ctejkwctl bridewell. Another
spiritual leader, followers frequently decide
e upon ~disputed pnin's with (lick» and huflling their
* e - antagonilU, aLfolutely made an offer to preach
11 down the Age of Reason, if his majedy would
t- grant an exclusive privile,e»o speak to the people,.
e but was obliged, with che reft, to depart from the
, a place of exhibition.
i- Peace, fays a French journalist, is the
r . anxious wifii of all France, and I ike wife of
the Le'gifiature. two bodies, how
ever, like the Apoftks, haveouly the gift
of tongues. .
The Grub Greet Wng T
k?t tk<*ir .•• >cj icn'qe irt t"'cJ 'j ,etters
"i><! ' 1 r.tfer, arc row<e*
ry biify in writing -his Epitayo. I£ Par
kir's'imtr,Giia!iay is to depend upon t'nefe
choice Mbrcrtiiji of Poetry, he runs little
hazard of being " damned to everlasting
fame." -
Augtift y-
Lord Holland, on his recent marriage
with thecl-devant Lady Webster gave up to
Sir Godfrey and their children, the 70001. j
per ami. which his lordih'P obtained with w
his wife. al
Lord Maltriefbury, who lodges at the ~
Hotel Du Paix, pays 300 I.oui'i d'ors pel
month for his apartments and thole for his p
fyite. He keeps gpen table- ar.d lives in t |
great splendor ; the jtverfv of the French ne
gociators. The conferences are held at the
Hotel des Intendants.
The captured Sp'anilh 74 lately airived
from the Welt Indies, is a lenlarkable good
sailer, uncommonly large, and being other- j
wife in perfect order, ii to be immediately '
i coppered. - ,
A very curious and ancient copy of the .
Koran, in tke Cooffo language, and in the
hand writing of Alii, tlie nephew and son in f
law of Mahomet, was lately found by a gen-
fleman at Buflorah ; i#is tiearly 1300 years t
Id. The vizier has, we understand, pur- ,
chafed it at the price of one lack of rapees.
EPITAPH ON PARKER. <
[TRANSLATED FROM THE FRENCH.]
H« re Barker lies, who from his birth A
W as dcom'd the elements to tear :
He fpQ*l the Sea tb* Kaftlj, ' ,
And, dyiug jh ok the Air /
* Mtummmaw ■»"!
PHIL J DELPHI A,
MONDAY EVENING, September iS.
CITY HOSPITAL REPORT,
From the 16th to !7tbS«pt. in the morning.
Admitted, since Jtift report,
John Cowans—No. 12, Mai*ket-(heet
Andrew Prenhou—Siuithwark
Mary Kifney—oppofite convalefctnt house,
Schuylkill
John Kifney (infant) —do.,
John Daly—Neal Maginnis's, corner of sth
and Plumb-ftrcets.
£lopcd,
Samuel Ogle—admitted 13th.
Died, since last report, ~ «
James Field—admitted 14th
Alexanckr Fowler, 24 hours after admission
John Cowans I fth
Andrew Prenhou 12th
Mary Kenfey 5^
John M'Farland 13th
Remaining last Report 5 1
( Admitted since, • 5
' 56 .
Discharged none
Eloped I
I Died 6 7
r *
r. • •tjr■. 1 f ConvalefcenUi2*)
Remain inHolpital, j sick 37 f 49
I Five of whom are dangerous.
Interred in City Hospital burying ground
p since last report :
From the city and fnbiirbs 3
1 From the city hospital 6
' e Total 9
j - Stephen Girard,
f (Signed) Caleb Lownes,
JoH« Connelly.
' Published b* order of the Board,
Wm. MONTGOMERY,
Chairman pro tem.
5 Cirr HOSPITAL REPORT,
1 From 17 th to 18th Sept. in the morning,
s Admitted since last report-.
Polly McCormic, corner CheiTy Alley and
Eighth, street. (
, Susanna Graham, John Sunlighter's, -No.
, 3, Hooffman .Wlev.
- Mary Shaw, James Thompsons, Vernon ftr.
Mary Reynolds, do. do.
r Difchsrgnd.
■. Nancy Berry, admitted iothinft.
,- Robert Schofield, 16
I, Catharine Gilliland, 6
n M. Kelly,. I
y Mary Woodward, 10
i- Died, since last report,
t ElifhaVagur —admitted 15 th
o Remaining last report 49
Admitted life* 4
t v ~
• 53
e DifclArged 5
e Died 1 6
r. • •ttr • 1 fCinvalefoent 8")
Reitiains in Hospital. 2 9J
In-erred since last report,
r , From city and suburbs 4
e H»fpital 1
! Total . 5
Stephen Girar®.
(Signed) Callb Lownis.
John Connelly.
Publifiied by order of the Board,
Wm. MONTGOMERY,
>- Chairman pro tern.
Ie •
"> The sick at the Hospital being in need
;' of shirts, fhifts and other likens, ftich bene
d volent persons as are d'fpofed to fend any,
■r will please to leave them at the City Hall.—
! e Oat ft raw is also much wasted, and will be
£ thankfully received at the Hospital, and
,j paid for if required.
e We/ball give, in to-morrow's Gazette,
a ler.gthy and elaborate Speech by Pastorf.t,
e in the Council of Five Hundred, "on the pre
if sent Jiate of our political and commercial rela
- tiyns -with the United States of North Amcri-
r t cu"—Travflatedfor the Gazette of the Unit
ed States.
Totals of burials for £4 hours, ending S'at'ar- tK
day at honn. * mi
t .tci\\ :i C!,i: W .n. C a
Secr>n<' l'rtfliytifrian I 9
Scotch Pr:(bytfi;iaq a o
German l.vthcraß .1 o ,
Potter's Fi-ild- I o
('i'v Hi)f.'it;u* 8 " o ft'
1 o tli
•• tli
Total 15 o „f
* On" of theft fn the iH$
Died, on mornipg, Mr. SaPiuel
Jonf's, praftioner of phyiic, a young man '
Whole iuduflry and application, by
intelligent and discerning mind, gave fair
promise of the happiest results. ..
■ Ffnno, daughter o£ Mr. Samuel Fesno, of
! this city.
jUuctj sfisnUi* bud jif faurfU 11m,n,
Ktp'J, iu tic eearluji fpri"'r, p
By the dull, icy hand of iK'atb, v;
Altfud.J tie/, and -wither'd, on the'fa.'i-
• The editors of a certain ftrv-ile tool of °
faftion, to the Southward, absurdly called
a Centinel of Liberty, might render some q
service to the community by observing a real
impartiality—instead of cloaking under a
pretended one, their malignant insults to the
mod illustrious citizens of America. The
magic phrase " truly impartial," is nine
times out of ten a coverfor rascality.
PARI OF ST. VINCENT'S PI.F.FT. c
The Britiih fleet em|)!oy£l in the blockade of
of Cirdiz, under tke co.u'nmd of the eatlcf St.
Vincent, coufifts el the loUowinj: ship? t a
( Adm. Farl St. Viilccnt, f
Ville de Paris no ] Capt Sir R CaWer,
C Capt G. Gr<y.
ViSory ICO - <
BritaHiiii, 100 Marlh
f Vice Admiral Sir C. \
Prises Gesrgo < Thompson, Bart. 1
C. Captain Irwin
Baifleur " 98 ■ Hacics <
St.Georjj Pcard
T Rear Arfmir.il Sir Wm.
Blenheim 90 < Parker, Bart.
CCapt.
Namur v 90 Whitfhead
r Rear Admiral Sir H.
Captain 74 < Nrlfon, K. B.
CCapt.W Miller
Orion , 74 Sir J. Sai.marez
Goiiah 74 ir< - H- Knuwls
Audacious 74 P Gould
' Bellerophon 74 £)arby
Alexander 74 A.J.Bell
Zealous 74 S. Holt
! Theseus 74 ."ylnier
Coloflus 74 G - Murray
Culloden 74 T. Torubridge
Egmont 74 J.Sutton
Excellent 74 Colliugwood
Diadem 64 Towry
La Minerve 41 Cockburn
. ' L'Aigle 38 Tyler
' Inconstant 3< FremantU
Romulus 36 G. Hope
Thalia 36 Lord H. Poulet
Caroline - 3* Luke
Emerald 36 V. C. Berkely
Lively 31 Hallowell /
Meleager 3» Ojfle
Southampton 38 Macoamara
> Blanche 3» 1
- 1 Button 3» Morris
5 Did* Presto* '
L'Unite. 34
L'Utile 44 . Lydiard
La Bonne Citoyeane to Retalick
7 , Raven 18 Jasies
- 1 Pcterell 16 v Lord Proby
Speedy 14 T. Elphinltone
9 I
CtlAtirr SsRMON.
! (C 5" The Rev. James Abercrombie,
<will preach a Charity Sermon on Sunday after
-1 noon next, at the Calvinifl Church, Gertrtan
to<vjn,for the relief of the po*r of Philadelphia,
•whose fufferings during the present calamity
rni.fl claim the activefympathy of the benevo ent
and humane.—Germantown, Sept. 18.
ill w
By this day's Mail.
BOSTON, Sept. t.v
FROM MIBOA —By an arrival from thence,
at Beverly, in 36 days, we learn, that it was the
opinion of Mr. Gardoqui, from the best informa
tion hefcould obtain, that tb* present negotiation
between France ind England would end in peace :
l* That the French would pay r.o attention + o com
plaints of tUe United States, until that affair was
id lctt\ed : and that the capture of our vcfTels would
of course continue. .
FED. REPRESENTATirZ —The Hon. Bai
ley Bartlctt, we arc told, is certainly chosen in the
4th middle diftri&. . * '
r » The New-York Time Piece has announced tfce
elfdlion of Wcodbury Efq. a* Federal
Representative, vice Mr. Smith, resigned. In Mit
turn we can announce that he is not chosen, nor like
ly to be, for Messrs. St.LoeLivermorejUndSprague,
both true federalifts, are candidates.
THEATRICAL.
We hear that Mr. HodgWnfon, has writ
ten a musical drama, entitle) the "Launch,"
in celebration of the naval fete ofWednef
day next; —on which evening it will be per-*
formed, concluding with a fpendid reprefen
■9 tation of the frigate CONSTITUTION
4 breasting the curled surge.
The peace is said to contain a great diver
-3 fity of national character, and incidental
Song. The idea is novel—the occafiou hap
-6 py
-7 DISCOVERT.
In lat. 16, 45, N. long, 169, 38, W.
from London, on my passage from the s'and
-4 <rvich IJlands to China, the 2d of Sept. 1796,
1 at midnight, in company with the fchr.
~ Prince William Henry, William Wake, maf
-5 ter, of London, we'both ran a (hor.e on the
North-fide of a reef of Coral rocks aild sand
where we continued until next d; » noon
at which time the weather being very clear"
we saw two small I(land3 of Sand, bearing
W. by N. 4 or 5 miles distant; ajid from
our topgallant-mast-head, we saw the shoal
extending E. S. E. southerly round to W.
d g_ —| )Ut how far we were not able to
s " determine. Keep the lat. 17, N. and this
h /hoal will not be seen.
JOSEPH PIERPONT.
)e it is hope i the printers of America, will give
id he above a place in their papers.
*
SALEM, September 12.
'e, Extratl of a letter from a gentleman in London
T, dated June 30, I 79>, to his friend in this
e- . town. 1
a- " Some time since yfti exprefled a desire
■i- to know what would be the decision of the
\t- boa'rd of commiffidners in cases where the
claimant had received, under the feutence of
trie lords coiTimiffioriors of ap->£a's, the a
mo.vuit ps or valuation made by the'
capt<i-s, hut (till claimed a further con l peu
fation from tire government. I could 'not
then answer decifivel'y, beeaufe the board
had not determined on any cafe thuscircum
ftanped: mice, it has; and I entlofe you
the report, by. which you will fee what was
the dccifion and- the effeft of ft, in the cafe
of the Bacchus. I enclose you a copy
from the "minutes of cases determined, and
the payable tb morrow by die
BritiflV government."
N. B. The Bacchus was captured and
condemned in the Weft Indies, with sugar
and coffee, bonnd to" Baltimore; and the
commiiTioners have allo wed upwards of 40001
IteVling, with intereCt, to the owners, over
and above the »-'utence*of the lords of ap
peals, for charges, and thi difference ofth£
value of the gbods had they artjved at Bal
timore from what they fold for at t.he place
of condemnation^
We are happy trt fee, in the lift of cased
determined, that ample allowance is made to
our townsman Capt. Benj. Weft, for dama
ges, as well as to many other American
citizens.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
Poi>t of Philadelphia.
Arrived, brig Delaware, Runpiey, Caps Fran
cois, (come ui> from the Fort,) '
Arrived at the Fort —NO.NF. fmec oor la(V.
The Biitifh (hip Phoenii, Capt. Fayle,
a letter of fharque, is arrired at Savannah*
from Grenada.
New Tort, September r6.
ARRIVED. DAYS#
Ship Boyne, Floyd, Amflerdara 87
Brig Eliza, Tucker, Philadelphia
Sloop Hannah, Smith, Frederickfburg 6
The Swediffc ship Solertia, eapt. Bad<?iv
dyck, from this port, has fafely arrived at
Hamburgh, in thirty days—Was boarded
at sea 3 French frigates, who sent him a
whole crew of Englishmen on board, which!
he was obliged to maintain, till he put them
■ on shore at Portsmouth.
—. 11 »'■! «—w—— r 1
WALPOLE, (N. H.) September 4.
3 , INCIDENTS ABROAD.
Reports of geueral peace begin to affuma
official importance. The emperor of Ger
many has communicated to the Diet of Ra
tifbon the conclusion of the pacific prelimi
naries between his empire and France, and
gives afTurance of a speedy and general
peace. Lord Malmefbury has been intro
duced to the. French legation at Lisle. The
present politicians contrast this interview
with that between this ambaflador and the
punftilioui De Laeroix, and augur imme
diate and general peace. What will be the
confequencea of peace to the powers o£
Europe and the United States, ia an im
portant query. Let us coajefture a little.
France will soon be a prey to intestine fac
tion and war. Why ? Because her present
government derives its surest support from
/ her military force, which has not ®r,ly con
quered its foreign, but awed its domefti*
enemies; but when thofc are disbanded,
and that hobby of philosophy, with its cap
and bells of liberty, called a constitution,
is left to operate without extraneous aid,
ambitious men will endeavour to overturn
r ft; bad men will cabal; mad men will af
r[ falfinate; philosophers will blow n«w con
ftttutional air bubbles, and weak men wilt
a catch at them as they fuceeflively burst;
L while the mechanic, the merchant, and the
husbandman, the houeft and unambitious,
may again find in the regal diadem the
crown of their glory', security and happiness.
England may perhaps change ?ts minister.
Insanity may occasion a regency ; or death
advance a new king. Her OUTS may be
INS, and her ins may become outs. Her
| L e patriots may yell for liberty ; and "her jaco«
3 bins, cry reform. Even her funds may fail 5
>n but wfiilft London is themart, Enland will
:: be the mistress of nations. No nation can
!1 rival her in the foreign market ; and peace
jj will open the ports of the world to her mer
chants. In war, the United States have
ii- fuffered from the jealousy of those rival na
-e tions. That of the latter has produced un
kindnefs ; that of the former, itifult and
cruel injury. In peace the scene will
IIT change, and Britain, add France, if fhc af
e- fumc-S any pretensions to commerce will
<1 court our cullom with fervour.
NORFOLK, September 9.
'*,] , ,A sloop arrived yesterday from Rhode
' Island and has brought us the melancholy
news of the death of the truly whorthy and
r much i*efpefted Major Willi am Lindsay,
Colleftor of the Customs for the di ft rift;
he departed this life at Newport, on the 3d
instant. As foou as "the account arrived
:r ' here all the (hipping in the harbour hoisted
their colours half mail, as a tribute of res-
P" pest to so worthy a character.
For Savannah,
I The faft failing (hip,
6 > swift.Packet,
r* Gribbin, Maflev,
■ Now lying oppafite the mouth
of.Kfankford Creelt, has handsome accommoda
tiom for pafitngers, and will fail on or about
the ift »f OAoher.
For freight cr pjfl";pe apply to the mailer on
board, or of the fubicribers at Frankford, 5 i-t
miles from Philadelphia.
Naibro iff y. Frazier.
y Frankford. Stpt. 18. dtiftQ.
to Thomas Arraat and Son,
lis OF PHILADELPHIA,
INFORM their customers axd the public, they
hav.e removed a part of their merchandize t j
Wrlsiington : Also, they huve their store open in
IVe the city. At either place their friends can be Cup
plied, and their orders carefully attended to.
* By the Cfimfeerland, from Hull, they have re
ceived a handsome affirtßient of articles, fuitabls
'on to the approaching feafnn ; and expert to add to it
ji s H>y other fall (hips.
Sli«u d the sickness prevai in tha central part of
the city that b. nch of thci business will be rc
re movn to Gcrn'.ai t \vn
he 0- 'f ac comhiui. cat..,11 by p jft is open and re
he gular as usual.
0 f Sept'. iS. thtffV/t DOLLARS & WAkD.
AN away from the fubferiber, an indented
,i\_ Set Vast' Girl, named Nancv a
lont twenty years tjf age, fh.ort, thick set person,
with Hiort blackTiair ; had on when flie went away,
a dark calico golwn, an old black fi!k cloak, and a
Mack fur hat. WfcoeVf? will ftcure (aid girl, and
give ir.lorrnation thereof to tbe fubferiber, No. 2,
■Gteen'ear alley, or to the office of this " Gazette,
/hall receive above reward. '
All p'-rTon's are forbid harboring (aid girl, as
Ihey wiji be dealt with as the law direfls
MARY ANDERSON,
N\ B. Said Girl is from Ireland, and has been ia
this country but a (hort time j ftie wasfent to the
ivork-houfe for mis conduct, w here fr.e was taken
fi'ck and removed to the city-hofpitll, from which
place (he made her escape.
Jurufl 30. CO It
Io be fold at Public Vendue,
To the liigheft bin, tr, at the house of Mr.
William Evans, the sign of the Indian
Qyeen, m the city of Baltimore, oa the 45th
day of O<slobef neit, at tl o'clock, A. M
About seven thousand acres of land,
the property of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
lying between Reifter's-town and Westminster,'
commonly called Little Winchester, (the turn
pike road rutis through a c.onfidsrable part of
these lands) the trail begins aba'ut 17 miles
from Baltimore, within a few htandred yards
of fold Reiller's-towil, and extends to the dis
tance t>f aOeut twenty-three fnile»-from Balti
rtlore, and lies on the main falls of Pataplico
river, from three to fo\jr miles thereon. Will
be fold irf"tra<£ls of one hundred and fifty to
three hundred acre. There is a large propor-.
tionof meadow and wood land on each traiS,
some of tbcro highly improved, with excellent
buildings ind fine gr:fs.
jUO
A trad of feren hundred acres of
land, called Clover Farms, withttt five miles of
Bladenfhurg, esteemed very good for Grass.
Richard Ponfonby, of Bladenfburgh, will (hew
tliis land to any person inclinfcd to purchase.
stso,
A trad of kind of aboUt three hun
dred and thirty acree, within abput two miles
and a half ot the President's house in th« Fede
ral City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fins
I'gV profpcfl, fron. which may be fcen the
city df Washington, Bladenfburgh, Alexandria
snd a part of George-town, and many miles
dqwn the Potomac river. Mr. Richard Ponfon
of Bladenfburg, will also flew this land.
A liberal credit will be given for the greatest
of the purchase money, she terms will
made known on the day »f sale.
May 8 wj«n
Just Received',
From Batavia (via Providence)
a few Boxes of Spices, confuting of
Nutmegs, Cloves and uacc
. For sale by
U3LLINC-S& FRANCIS,
Pcniv street.
»fay JO dlf
JDavis's Law Book Store,
No. 319, High-Street.
GEORGE DAVIS,
BEING bnlied for some time past in prrpara
(ion» for removiag into his present house, has
been under thchecefiity of poftpuning until this day
informing the gentlemen of the Bar generally thro'
the United States, that his spring importation of
law bonks is now arranged and ready for (ale, on
terms that he trusts wilL entitle him to the like pre
frteuce he his experienced for Mveral years past.
Catalogues, combining the moll varied collcc
tion ever imported iito this country, are printed
and will be delivered on application.
June a 7. 2aw 6w
City Commijjioners' Office,
4 June 22, 1797.
IN pursuance of an ordinance from the fetinl 1
and common councils, pafled the 22d day of
May last, appointing the city commissioners,
and prefcrihing their duties, ftflion 9th,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
That the city is divided into five diftrifls,
each to be under the fuperintendance of one of
the city commifiioners, whoisto be individually
relponfible for the cleanliness of the fame, and
are as folloiw.
Driftri<S No. I. From the south fide of Ce
dar-street, to the north fide of Spruce-street, un
derthe superintendence of Nathan Boys.
a- From the north fide of Spruce-street, to
thenorth lide of Walnut-ilreet,under the super
intendence of Hugh Roberts.
3. From the north fide of Walnut to the south
fide of High-flreet, under the superintendence of
Joseph Claypoole.
4. From the north fide of High-street, to the
north fidr of Mulberry street, under the super
intendence of William Moulder/
5. Frorr. tbe north fide of Mulberry-street to
the north fide of Vine-street, under the super
intendence of Nicholas Hicks.
Thecleaningof High-street to be in common.
A flatrd meeting of the city commission
ers is held at the Old Court House, in High*
fireet, every Tuesday evening at 5 o'clock.
July 14. eoim
" Stands for Draymen, &c.
In purjvanct cfan Ordinance from tbeSelcfl and
Common Councils,bearing date tbe lid day of
April, 1797, providing for tbe appointment of
City Commissioners, (jc. Seel, tbe tstb.
THE following places are fixed upon by the
said City Commissioners for Stands fbr
Draymen and their Horses.
In Vine-street, eastward of Front-ftrect, on
both fides.
SaTl'afras, High,Chefnut and Walnut-fttreets,
eaflward of Frout-ftreet, on the no,-tl^fide only.
Mulberry-flreet, south l\de from Front to
Third-street.
Front-ftreat, east fide from to
Elfrith's alley-
Front-ftrect, from opposite to Black Horse al
ley to Hamilton's store*, east fide.
Waler-ftreet, weft fide from the north end of
Stumper's or Moore's (lores to Pine-street.
Penn-ftreet from Pine to Cc'lar-ftreet, weft
<ide.
Drawbridge, north fide, east of Front-flreet,
Spruce, Pine and South flreets, east of Froat
street, foutb hde.
Dock-street, between Walnut-street and the
flag (tone erodings, east fide, opposite George
Orkley's.
Second-ftrect, between Saffifras and -Vine
flreets, weft fide.
Fifth-ftreet, east fide from Chefnut to Mul
berry (treets. '
Safftfras-ftreet, from Third to Fourth-flreet,
tall fide.
No dray or horse to stand Within ten feet of
any pump.
STANDS FOR HAC.KNET COACHES.
Pine-flreelJ, nunb fide from Fourth to Fifth
JJreei.'. v
Fifth-fjfreet, between Chefnut and Walnut
streets, weft.
Branch street, north between Third apd
fourth ftreeU. *
July 14. 'naw&fim
A Literary Tic;;i:.
jujl pulß/bej, handjomtly printed on Writing
paper, price I dollar,
\ new edition of that popular anii entertaining
work, entitled
THE FORESTERS, an American Tale ; being
u fcqucl to the history of John Bull, the Clo
thier—in al'eriesof letters to a friend, with the ad
dition of two letters, alluding to racent political
tranfa&ions in America.
The following extradl from the Clavis AlUt»orica,
(hews the principal charaiters that are introduced:
John Bull, thfc Kingdoni of £ngland
His Mother, the Church of England
His Wife, the Parliament
His Sifter P«g, the Church of Scotland
His Brother Patrick, Ireland
Lewis, the K'ngdom of France •
HisMiftrefs, the Old Q'onflitm joo
His new Wife, the National Representation
Lord Strut, the Kingdom of Spain
Nicholas Frog, the Dutch Republic
The Franks, the French Republic '
The Fijreftera, the United States of Ameriia
Robert Lumber, New-Haoip(hire
John Codline, Massachusetts
f Humphrey Plow(hare, Connecticut
Roger Carrier, Rhode lfland
Peter Bull Frog, New-York
Julins Ca:far, New-Jersey
William Broadbrim, Pennsylvania
Caflimar, Delaware •
Walter Pipewood, Virginia
His Grandson, George Wafhingtoa
Petes Pitch, North Carolina
Charles Indigo, Soutk Carolina
George Truily, Georgia
Ethan Greenwood, Vermont
Hut* ter Longknife, Kentucky
Black Cattle, Negro fcl&ifcs
Rats, Speculator* "*
Mother Carey's Chickens, Jacobins
.JjP This popular and entertaining fatiricaj histo
ry of Amnrica is attributed to the Rev. Dr. B*l
i knap. It hasa great (hire of originality and a
| bounds with genuine humour. It is continued
down to the present time, and chsra&erifes those
late political tranfa&ions which have caused so
much urxafinefs in America.
Sold by H. and P. RICE, Bookseller, No. 16,
South Second Street, and No. jo, Marke' ftjeet.
June 26. §
lAv books,
Latest London and Dublin- Editions.
H. & P. RICE, Bookseller s,
N*. 16, South Second, and No. 50, Market street,
HAVE jull received by the Hte arrivals Irom
London and Dublin, their iprirg importa
tion, confiding of a-variety of the latest and aioft
approved Law Books, which, added to tbofe alrea
dy on hand, forms thfc mollextenfive collaition ev
er offered for f»l« in this country. They thei efore
beg leave to noticy, that from the nature of their
connedicnsin Dunlin, they are enabled to felllriih
editions (as they have hitherto don<*) at the very
lowed prices. The following are among the latest
publications.
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, 2
Peakc's Cases at Nisi Prius ; Ridgeway's Rejorts
in the time of Lord Hardwicka Flayer's Prowlers
Pra&ice in the Ecclefiaitical Courts J Barton's
Tr«atife on a Suit in Equity; Tidd's Pradlice of
the Court ef King's Bench in Personal Actions, »
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
on Ufei ; modern Reports, 11 vols. London edi
tion.
H. and P. Rice cipefi ta receive by the firft ar
rival from New-Y»rk the 6th vol. complete of
Durnford and East's Reports, the 2d part of Gil
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
new publications'.
June 26.
The History of Pennsylvania,
By ROBERT PROUD,
IS now in the press, and will be published,
with all convenient expedition, by Zrcha
ri ah Poulson, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where i'ubferiptiont will continue
to be received, and a* the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed proppfals, until the
work is ready for the fublcribers.
July 18- 2awtf
Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co.
No. S Cbefjiut-Strect,
Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS aeatly aKorted, very low on
(hort credit.
March 6. §
Richard and James Potter
HAVE r.rnoved their Counting House to No.
4s, South Fifth-ftrect.
August 1,. . w&f6t
Laneafter; Harriferurgh Carlijle,
Shtppsnjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
public are requcfted to take notite, that
the partnership which has f#r some time fnb
firted bctwesu MathJas Klough of Laneafter, and
William "Geer, it now diffclved; but, not as M.
Slough infinaatesto the public without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fub
je<a from M. Slaugh to W. Geer, dated the 19th
December last. a recital of which is not now deem
ed necessary. Any gentleman who wishes to be
more circumstantially informed of the merits of
this business, by applying to W. Geer may have
the perusal ef M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or /lot W.
Geer is not perfedly jnftifiable ip attaching him
felf to any other person in the .prosecution of the
Stage con veyanc* from Philadelphia to Shippenf
-1 urg, or any otber place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
public were pleased to confer on the firft effort in
this bufincf6, Vf illiam Geer, in conjunction with
Messrs. Rcily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention anddifpatch that a aeal to oblige the pub
lic can poflibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
render the passage fafe and commodious, inform
those w/10 wiih to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George * eed's, the sign of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed' to Laneafter, Harrifburg,
Carlisle and Shippenlburg. The fare as hitherto
eftabli(hed.
For the further accommodation of the'.public,
a Stage will flirt every Wednesday from the houfu
of Samuel Elder, m Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
and return from thcOce and arrive at Harrifburg
every. JSaturday. io tkat passengers destined for
Laneafter or Philadelphia, may proceed oa Mon
days. . ' /
WILLIAM GEER.
""La»icailtr v Jan. 2*7, 1797.
N. B. This Line ef Stages ftatts from the
house of William Ferroc, in Laneafter, on every
Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
ceeding to the westward; and from the house of
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg. every Wodijcf.
dry morning, on the Tame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns
from thence on every Thursday : performing the
fame routine daily a: in its lour from Philadel
phia. * * jsiVti
City of Waftiirigtdn.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A 'iwgniftcent lweiling-houfe »o,ooodollars,
& ca(h 30,000, arc 50,0011
1 ditto 15,000 & cafti 15,000 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 & 02ft 15,00® 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & calb 10,000 ao,ooo
1 ditto 5,600 & ca!h 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cafe 5,000 10,000
1 cads prize of ro,ono
» do. 5,000 each,are ■ 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - • 10,00 c
10 do. 500 - -» io,obo
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
aOO do. 50 10,000
400 do. 3; - 10,000
1,000 do. 10 * so>ooo
15,000 do. 10 - I5»,ooo
16,739 Prizes.
33,361 Blanks. »
_______ __ ••
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollar*, 4-00,000
N. B. Tofavour those who may take a quan
tity of Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the l* st drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but OKI :
And approved notes, securing payment in either
monsy or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received for any number not less than 30 tick
ets. j. i
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of
the private buildings to be ereiSed in the City of
Washington—Two beautiful defigps are already
(elected for the entire fronts on two of the public
squares; from these drawingsitispropofedtoereel
two centre and r our corner buildings,as foonaspof->
fible after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventursrs, in
tlie manner described in the feheme tor the Hotel
Lottery. A nett of five per cent, wilt
be made to defray theneceffary expenses print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National to
be eiecled within the city of Washington.
The real feeuritiesgiven for the paymaot of the
Frizes, are held by the President and two Direct
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount oi the lottery.
S4M>!EL HLODCET.
.§. Tickets may be had at the Bank ol Colom
bia ; or James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Pfter
Gilman, Boston ; of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
and of Rickard W Cooper's Ferry.
mwf
Frem the Ot/rgo Herald.
CAUTION.
WHEREAS a combination of men in t}»
county haTe undertaken to enrich th«m
felves,by fabricating titles to fundr/ valuable trade
of land, the property of gentlemen living in New
York, Philadelphia, London and Paris, fqr which
traits of lend large funis of money have been paid
to those fraudulent men, by innocervt purthafers •
It is therefore just that public information should
be given, to the end, that the injured may seek re
dress while the men have -property, and are to be
found. Those who have been discovered are Tru
man Hdrrifon, Joseph Witcomb, said now to re
side in the county of Saratoga ; Thomas Kelly and
several other! who go under fiflitious names. It is
supposed that the lauds offered for faleon those fa
bricated titles, are at lead worth fifty thousand
dollars. Such as we have adual knowledge of are
as follows : Lots No. II and It, Btfego patent,
thousand acres each, the a&ual property of William
Dellwyn, now of London ; lots No. 58 and 64,
fame pßtent, thousand acres each, the property of
Mr. Chauriiont, now of Paris, and |ames Averill
and others, ot this State. There is some grounds
to suppose that the lands of Richard Wells and
Charles Wharton, of Philadelphia, are under their
management.The Printers will do well to give
thi»a place in their papers, as well to caution the
public against purchasing those lands, a 6 also to de
prive thoie men in future from imposing on indivi
dual, which their education and address have en
abled them to do heretofore Witcomb has been
a fhopkecper of some note in this country.
The following affidavits will fct in a clear point
9f view tin. wickedncfs of those men, which when
the public have perused, will induee them to ex
cuse the interference of Wm. COOPER.
Otfego, July i3th, 17 J7. ,
I Thomas Kelly, of the County of Offego, hav
ing been led into an error, by John Wiuoinb and
Truman Harrifon, of the fame County, to sign a
deed to them, for lot "o. 58, Otfogo patent, which
was the property of William T Franklin now Mr.
Chamont's and others ; and further the laid Joseph
and Truman did persuade me bo do this against my
inclination, which was made out on the 10th day
of November, 1793, or fef back two years so as
to bring it to that time; and further the name of
Pardon Starks to that deed was a fictitious name,
there being no faeh perlon there. To this I make
voluntary oath. THOMAS KELLY.
19th July, 1797- ' -
On the ipth july, 1797, came personally before
roe, Thomas Kelly, thf l'ubfcriber to the above af
fidavit, and made solemn oath that it contains noth
ing but the truth.
EiJHU I'HINNEY, Jufticc of the Peace.
On the 18th July, >797, nau before me Jacob
Kibby, a person by me Weil known and worthy of
good credit, who on his solemn oath did fay, that
two of tht parties abovementioned did make ap
plication to him this deponent, some time in the
winter of 1796.t0 make them a deed for two thou
sand acres of land in the Otego patent, and pro
mised this deponent a (hare of the profits, on the
sale of said lands, for his so doing ; and that they
made'applicationfcveral times for tj}e£ame pnrpole,
which services this deponent a» often refufed, de
claring to them that he had no right to lands, and
coulddo no such thing ; which daring attempt on
thisd»ponent's integrity he had related a-nong his
friendi several times, previous to making this affi
davit. (' JACOB KIBBEY.
Sworn before me,
ELIHU PHINNEY, Jtiftice of the Peace.
Aug. 3. iaw4w.
Thirty Dollars Reward.
ELOPED from the fetvice of the filbftriber,
on the 19th instant, a negro man by the
native of DICK, about twenty-five years of age,
and five feet nine or ten inches high ; by trade
a carpenter, and is a very lively brisk work
man. His countenance is very good—When
fpokep to, he converses with ease and confi
dence, and is pretty fagacioys. I purchased
the laid fellow of Mr.Dubney Minor, in whose
name he has been 'in the Richmond
newfpaperr. Jouriog,his last runaway,trip (last
fummerl he was employeda confiderablelength
of time, by Taiu; pcrfoM near Dumfries, from
which circumffamte, I conjeflure, he has taken
another nothern, route 1 torewarm all persons
from giving him employment, of any kind
whatever, and maifcersof veflelsand others, from
carrying him out of this state. The above re
ward will be given ii he is taken within forty
miles of this city; 2nd an additional sum, in
proportion to the diiftance he may he brought,
or the trouble and ex pej»£e the apprehender may
be at, 111 bringing hitn to this place.
AUG; DAVIS.
N. B. His apparel w as of the usual negro kind,
but he had more cloal.hs than is cu-flomary for
tiem to poffels.
A.D.
Richsnsnd, June Hi i 797'
, Will be Landed,
Frem onboard the (hip A&ive, Capt.Blair,from
Hamhutgh,
40 bales white Ruflia clean Hemp
a calks CloVcr Seed
For Sale by
Thomas Herman Leuffcr,
North Fifth street, No. 34.
Tune t6. £
William Blackburn,
LOTTERT jnd BROKER' 6 OFFICE
No. 64 south Second street.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 11, which
commenced drawing the 29th May, FOR
j SALE. The price of tickets will rife in propor
tion as the drawing advances, particularly on ac- i
count of the five firfl: drawn tickets, prizes of
four thousand dollars each, on the last day ol
drawing.
Cfceqk Books kept for examination and regifler
ing, in the Canal, No. a, City of Washington, No.
2, and Paterfon Lotteries.
Also, tickets for sale in the Schuylkill bridge and
Perk-omen Bridge lotteries, which will
drawing in the course of the furomer.
The business of a Broker in all kinds of Stock,
Bills, Notes, Lands, &c«- &c. tranfa&ed with the
utmost attention.
June 2 tu&f
Erflune's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No 40 South Second street,
[Price 31 Cents] ,
A View of the Caujes and. Consequen
ces of theprefenl War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskine.
May 15 £
STATE TRIALS.
Sold by W. Younc, Bookseller, No. 51, South Se
cond-tlreer,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
CONtaining the impeachment, trial, and acquit
al of Francis Hopkinfon, Judge of U?e Court of •
Admiralty, and John Nicholfon, Comptroller Gen
eral—ln one large Bv* vol. Price, in boards, 3
dollars. *
W. Youkg has for sale, a general affortmentof
Books. Also, Stationary, retail and by the pack-
Age, well aflorted,and entitled to the drawback if
axpwted. July 7—*
rHESUBSCRIBER having been appointed by
the Envoy Extraordinary and Minider Pleni
potentiary of his Britannic Majesty, GeneraMgent
tarafiifting British creditors, and fxich particular a
ger.ts as they may (pecially authorize, in prosecuting
their claims before the cemmiHibners for carrying in
to effeft the sixth article ot the Treaty of Amity, Com
mcrcc and Navigation betmecn his Britannh Aiajtfty and
the United States of America, liereby gives noijce that
he has opened his office at his honfe the south east
corner of Chefnut and fifth ftrrets, Philadelphia,
where be is ready to recoive all claims or intiru&ions
for claims with the vouchers aud documents thereof,
for the purpose of bringing forward the fame agree
ably so the rules ?.nd orders which the board may
think proper to prescribe.
And ai it will be for the interefi of all concerned,
that the several claims be so dated, and (upport
ed, as to prevent the delay whioh would .ari'e from
the necessity of obtaining further information, or ad
ditional materials,from perio«»s refining at a diltance,
the general agent thinks it his duty to add, (f«£ the
dire&ion chiefly of thpfe, who, not having employ
ed particular agents, may leave the profeeution of
their claims to his charge and management) that all
such claims ought in paiiicularto fct forth—
lft. The proper description and fituatioo of the
•reditor or claimant, end original debtor, refpeft.
ively.
id. The date andnatureof the original contrail or
debt.
3d. When, in what manner, and to what extent,
the creditor or claimantjw«s prevented or impeded,
by the proviiaon, operation or defe& of law, the
decifionsand pra&ice of courts, or restraint of exe
cution, from recovering payment of the debt in
queftioit*
4th The lofsand damage incurred or fuAained,
in consequence of such impediments, whether the
fame may have arisen from the infolvcuey, change of
fitualion, or death of the debtor, the loss of legal
remedy from lapse of time, or othercaufesimpairi «g
the value and fccurityof the debt, which wooid not
havefo operated if such impediments had notexiAed.
And 51 h The particular grounds and reasons 00
which the claimant maintains, in the terms of the
treaty, that " by the ordinary course of judkial pro.
ings, the creditor cannot now obtain aod actually
have and receive full and adequate compensation" for
the losses and damages (o fultaiued.
The general agent thinks it his duty further to fpg»
gefl that the f feral claims ought 10 be accompanied
and supported by the affidavits of the claimants duly
sworn and regularly aticftcd, both as to the cxiftence
of the debts cUimexl, and such other circumftanccs
as may be within their ovti knowledge
; And wherever the claimants in fiatingtbe nature of
their evidenee (which mult in everv inlkance be the
beilot which the cafe b capable) have occasion to
refer to the teiiimouy of witneifes, it will be proper
to apprifcthe geoeral agent of the names and placec
of rcGdence of such witnefTesadid the faftsto be eAa»
blifhed by their tedimony.
Wm. Moore Smith.
Philadelphia, June 8fli« »7Q7' d
For Sale,
That well known place, called fjU/DEaniFT's
nn v,
ON Kefhamiay creak, 18 miles from Phi
ladelphia, on the New York poli road,
containing 74 acres and 94 pe*:hes. Upon the
premifcs are a large two licry stone houie occu
pied as a tvern, and a good one story stone kit
chen, a large frame stable with agoodthrefhing
floor, and i'ome out buildings—also a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
this place is a most elegant situation fora gentie
min's feat, commanding a view of the Nelham
iny to its juniSlion wiih the Delaware, ffhd thence
across to the Jerfcy Jhore. Jt has the privilege
of one half the toll received frpm the bridge.
For terms apply to the StiMfcriber,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
May 44. jtawtf.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GRQQMBRIDGE Withnnch pleas
ure and refpe<fl, rel.irns her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
(he has received during four years refidenee in
Philadelphia ; and allures her friends and the
public, fp far from intending to decline her
school, Jhe has made a superior arrangemtnt for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars. —Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Grootnbridge and maft«rs excelling in their
rcfpedlive profelTions. •
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, j 797. (Jimirf
' The situation is perfeisl!y healthy ; and made
more agreeableby an extensive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the houle. '
fujl Pub lifted,
And to be had of Melfrs. DoUon, Cr.mpbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal Bookfcllers in tV
' city,price one dollar, twinty-nve cents,ir. hoards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America;
By EtNJAMIN SMITH BARTON, m. d.
June 28
No. 18?.
D'ljlrtcl of PmiTyUoaqla, <
l, s, T3® IT R.".MEMHI:."r-D, tliat on the
* fifteenth day of June, in the twenty
firfl year of the Independence of the United
State# of America, JaMis WoODHnusE, of
the said diftrifl, hath depofifed in t!.\ office the
title of a book, the right whereof he claims as
author, in the words following,- to wit :
The Young Oh em t ft' Pocket Companion,
" being a Defcriptibn of a Portable Labaratory,
*• containing a Philosophical apparatus, and a
great number of Chemical Agents, bv which.
" any person may perform an endless variety <4f
" amnfing nhd inftrufling Experiments,
" cd for tHe use of ladies and gentlemen, and
(< intended to promote the cultivation of she
•' Science of Chemistry in thi'Unittd States of
''-Imerica. By Jamvs WoeDHousj?, M- D.
" Profefior of Chetniflry, in the ftniverfity of
" Pennfyl»»n«, Prefidcnt of the Chemical So
" ciety of Philadelphia, &c.
" At present every thing that is not denomi
" njted Chemistry, is but a small pa/t of a fyP
" tem of natwral knowledge.
Priestly tn Air "
In conformity to tile of the Congress of the'
intituled, « A'nafl for the encour
agem#nt of Learning, by securing the copirs of
maps, charts, and books to the author* and pro- '
pnetors of such copies, during the times there
in mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL, Clerk of the
Diftrifl of Pennfvlvatiia.
July 18. djt— wstf
— L-l-J
No. 188. ,
DiflriS of Pennfybvania, to <wk
(l. s.) U K 11 REMKMB£RED, that on the
JD twenty fiith day of July, is the twen
ty second year of the independence of the United
States of America, John Finno, of the said dif
trifl,hath dej,ofited in this office the title of a boek,
the right whereof he claims as propriator, in the
words following, to wit:—
" ObservatiOns on certain decutntnts contained
11 in Wo. V. and VI. of 11 The History of the Uni
t" ed States for the year 1796," in which tka charge
" of speculation, against Alexander Hamßtqn, late
" Secretary of the Treafiiry, is fully refuted—
* Written by himfalf "
In conformity to'he aS of the Cdngrefs as the
Ucited 6tates, entituled, "An *<ft for the lintour
agement of learning, by securing the aoples of
maps, charts and books to the author* ani J ropri
etars ©f liuh copies, during tha tunes therein men*
tioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerlt of the Dijirlfl of PonnfyUvania.
July 17. W4W _
Public Notice is hereby given,
THAT at June term, 1797, a petition waj
pre&nted to the Court of Common Pleas,
held at in the State of Pennsylva
nia, at the tnflance of James Short, praying
the Court to supply a loft deed nude by a cer
tain Andrew Hickenluber, to Jiugh Morrifon,
James Morrifon, and John Sample, executors
to Hans Morrifon, deceased, fur fix hundred
asrts of Land, lltuate in Menallea
townlhip, in the county of York -• —Ail per.
sons who have any objections tn make to the ob
ject of the f»ifl nefitic* are desired to attend at
the Court Houie, in the town of York, on the
ith day of September next, otherwise the loft
deed will be supplied.
JOHN EDI*, Clerk.
July it. eetSj
30 Dollars Reward.
Ran awa" onSatusday last, two indented Ser
vants, Gifford Dally, a mulatto boy,about r7
years of age, a dim light built active fellow, caa
read and write,five feet seven or eight inches high,
has a heavy countenance ; had on a fuftian «oatec
and trowfers, a high crowned bat, fine fhces Sec.
Allan Kellons, a black man. about 24 years of
age, five feet seven or eight inches high, a thick set
clurnfy built fallow, particularly about the breech*
had on a Tailor's blue jacktt lined with fwanfltin, 1
dark striped vest, fuftian trowfers, high crowned
hat, c©&rfe flioes, See.; each of them had several
fliirts and several other cloathes with them. Thir
ty Dollars will be paid for the runaways, or 15 dol
lars for each, and reasonable charges, oa delivering
them at No. 54, North Third-street.
The black fellow is about a from Lewis
Town, in the County of Suflfex, state ©f Dela
ware, and has taken the boy with him.
July 31* rotu&fqw
To be SOLD~or RENTED,
A LARGE 3 Story Brick House, on tfie
South fide of Filbert ftrjet, between
Eighth and Ninth, lately occupied as the Sur
veyor General's Office.
The Building is 36 feet front and 35 feet desp,
the lot 110 feet deep, with the privilege of a nine
feet wide Alley extending the whole length of
the lot, to a thirty feet wide Court for Carriages
to turn iij. The House is nqt Raftered, and
may be turned either into one, or two dwelling
Houses. It is suitable far a large Manufaflory,
or would make a good Tavern. Immediate
pofleffion will be given.
Apply to No. in, Chefmit-Street.
Aug. ii. cod4t.
Musical lnjirument Manufadory,
A'o. 167, Arch-Strct'..
HARPER, harpflchord, grand, portable gra-sd,
fidi-board, pier tab|e and fquarc piano forte
maktr from London, returns thanks to his friends
and the public, for theif liberal encouragement,,
andhepes that by hisaffirfuity and at»enti< n toey
ery branch of his business, ton erit a cortinuance
of their favors. Piano fcrtes made on the newest
and most approved plans, wi;h pedals, patent,
swell, and French harp stop, whrch he flattei»
himfclf will i>e found on trial by unprejudiced
judges, tp be equal if not fuperiorto any
ed, aild" twenty per cent cheaper. Any ipfiru
mont purehafed of him, if not approve4of in
twelve months, he will exchange.
N. B. AU kinds of Musical inflruments niadu,
uned, and repaired with the greatest accuracy,
dispatch, and on the mofl reafor.abie teria-r, th
ready money only.
Second bind Piano Fortes talren in exchange.
May xc. &n.i.
Forty Dollars Reward.
RAN away from thi fubferiber 011 the fee
onddayof this inlt. July, a Mulatto Man*
named Will Bowzer, about iorty years of age,
five feet seven or eight inches high, rather
chunky made ; had on when he went away, a
"drab colored cloth, ceat, striped purple trb« i'ers
and jacket. It is probable he will change fiii
cloathes, as he took a number with him. The
fan! fellow formerly belonged to Mr- Charles
Blake of this place ; and it is expeiled he has
taade towards Jones's Neck, in the Delaware
State.' —Any perfun,apprehending the said fel
low, asd securing hiiA so that I can get him a
gain, ihall receive the above reward if tak. n
dut of the county, and Twenty Dollars if i»
the county,' and ail reasonable charges if br» r t
hone*
JESSE REED,
Qu«» Aan's County, JViarvianf'.
J"'y 3■ '