st t\)t Hillif ttl anc P'hiladelphia Daily Advertiser.
* 1 56°j
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For n R r GOODS.
f Foretinon—Edwavd Fox, No. 56,
1r . j fonth Front-street,
J '' j " a -'\ Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 65
C. South Front-ft.-c- t.
SFoifiiaon —John Coiijji'lv, OM City
Auilion, No. 73 fuuui i ront-ftreet.
■" Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
C 183 High-flreet.
5 Afternoon—Peter detifon, No. 74
' y t south Third-ftrcet.
ctl ri. $ Forenoon—Edward Fox.
r J y Afternoon—John Connelly.
■p -j \ Forenoon—William Shinnon.
'' S Afternoon—John Connelly.
SutHrr'nv Afternoon—Peter Bcnfon.
United States, 7 rr
Pennsylvania Diftrift. J
XH pursuance of a writ to me dire&ed from the |
honorable Richard Peters, Esq. fudge of t.'v
Di.lii.sl Court of the United States in and for the
Puiniyivania will be expuf-d to Public .
S:'.!c, at the Merchants' Coffee-houfe, in the city of
Philadelphia, on Momdav, the eleventh day of
September next, at 12 o'clock at noon,
7he Brigantint, callsd the
km H M ARI A,
With all and firgular the tackle, ap
ifr'ferw par el and furniture as they now are ;:
tlvrfairi brigantine having been condemned to pay
Mariners waffes, See.
Wm. NICHOLS, Marjhal.
MarOiailV Ofßce, ">
Auftuft 29, 1797. )
N B. The Inventory mny he seen at my O ffiee
For HAMBURGH,
ri HU Copper 3ottomivl Slil|»
1 PiVOKI rE, John
Thompson, Miller, now at
• Bright's whar f , and -.Ti: Ibe rea
dy to take in on Monday uext,
' «-»*' '-> c part of hfr cargoheing engaged
apd reidy to go on board. The Ihip is f« well
Known, that it is needless to describe her. She
is now in eoinpleat order. For Freight or Paf
i'lge, please to apply at Mr Jeremiah Warder's
Compting-Hopfe. No. is, North Third street,
or to the Master on bord.
Auiuft 30.
For SALE, J*;
On board the said Ship, Swedish Iron, atTortei
Hollowand Window Otafs, Demvjohns, Wrap
ping P»pcr for Sugar Kefiners, Hugs of I & a
Quality. Please to apply as above.
«i-f&m4W
White Havanna Sugar.
14& I boxes > of very superior quality now
7 ' hhds. S ing from the Ibip Ham'jurgh Packet,
atjWalnut Streit wharf—and forfale by
Philip Nicklin & Co.
N. B.
t -„s_ the snip
Hamburg Packet,
Silas Swain, Master,
For Sale, or Charter.
Aug. a - eot^
SAT.LS,
r *pHfc Commissioners of the counties of Ly
-1 coming and Northumberland, have jiven
notice that they intend to proceed to the sale of
lands, for the arrearage of taxes, on the 7t|i of
September next. •
&• The different printers in this city will
render an elTential service to a great number of
individuals oy publishing this notice.
Aug. 18.
"~FOR SALE,
BRETAGNES in cases
German Chcck&ia do.
Cambrick
Plattillas
Oznabrigs
Gold and silver Watches
Window Glass 10 by 8
Glass Tumblers in cajfes
Liafeed Oil in cafics, &c. &e.
George Pennock,
105, Hivb-StreM.
July 5. .V' w .
N-O TIC E.
IF Theot O'Hara, who fomc years Cncekept
fthocl at the Nine Bridge-, Queen's County, Eaf
tjrn ohore, Maryland, be living, he is hereby re-,
minded to call on, or write to, the Rev. Ambrose
Marflial, near Warwick, Cecil County, Eastern
Shore, Maryland, from whom he will receive in
teresting information.
Aug# 4. mw&fAW
THE SUBSCRIBERS,
ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GREENLEAF,
HEREBY give notice, that they have disposed
of the property afligned to them for the securing
the payment of the note, aceeptances, and en
dotl'enients given by Edward Fox, for the use
of the said James Greenleaf; and the holders of
such notes, acceptances, and andorfements, are
hereby notifyed tha; the fubferibers will fettle
with them for the amount of their refpeilive
claims, both principal and interest, at
any time before the aoth day of Odlober next ;
after which day, the holders nrt applying, will
be excluded, agreeably to the terms of aflign
jment.
Applications to be made at fouth-enfl corner
Dock and Second streets (the Dock-street
fide), between the hours of eleven and one o'
*lock every day, Sundays excepted.
Henry Pratt,
Tbo. IV. Francis,
John Miller, Jun.
, 'John AJhley,
Jacob Baler.
Philadelphia, Aug aft 18, 1797. <'
The Inhabitants of the Diftridk
of Southwark,
RE informed that a Coac'nee i 6 provided, to be
J. j. kept at the Constables' office, the north east
earner of Front and Almond streets, where the
sri utis of those fiek persons who desire to be re
moved to the City t/ofpital, are requeftedto make
a Hearfc will be kept in readi
neis for the removal of the dead.
JONATHAN PENROSE.
he Foor, who wish to remove to the
Tents 011 Schuylkill, may be furnirlied with ordets
by applying ai above. Av*. Z'j
PHILADELPHIA! FRIDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 8, 1797
This Day Published,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG t corner of
Second and Chefnut ffcreets,
Price 3-&tos nf a Deliar,
Obfcrvations on certain Documents
Contained i* No. V and VI of
" The History of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In which the en th;r of speculatiov apaiaU
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Seckstary of the i* FULLY
REFUTED.
WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.
This publication presents a
of the bale means pra&ifed by the Jacobins of the
United States to asperse the cbara&er* of thoft;
persons who arc considered as hostile to felicir difor
ga: izing fchcme?. It also contains the cor
respondence between Mr. Hamilton and MefTrs.
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venabie. on the fub
je& of the documents alorefaid, and a series of let
ters from James Reynolds arid his wife to Mr. Ha
milton, proving beyond the poflibiiity of a doubt,
r that the connection between him and Reynolds,
; was the rrfult of a daring eonfpiracy oa the part
, of the latter a«d his associates to extort nloncy.
A» discount of one third from the retail price
wili be made in favor of who'iefait pur chafers, for
, cash• Orders to be addrefT«d to Mr. Yowng«
Attgujl 35 •
The Norfolk Mail STAGE.
TTIIJ Stage starts from the GEORGE Tavern,
at this corner of Second and Arch Streets, in
. Philadelphia, '.-very *7'uefJay, Yburfday, and Satur
day, at j o'clock, in the irorning ; arrives at Do
ver the fir ft day, at Si.owhill tbe fecorul day, at
Northampto* Cqurt Hoqfe the third day, and on
the morning of the fourth day the pafiengcr* fiud
a fafc and comfortable packet to convtiy thuin to
JJorfol',.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton IVI ry,
every Tucfdty, Thurfjay and Saturday, and the
Siage fturt® from thi» ferry for Philadelphia, every
M/in« »y, Wednelday and Friday ;;puti up at Snow
Hill th- firft night,.at id night.and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the. third
day.
The diftanee on thi» route, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is So miles less than on any stage route
between thole placet.
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road,
which is in oft excellent indeed. The proprietors
w lliugly engage to return the whole fare to any
pa(Teiigi-r, who, after having performed this route,
wiil fay that ht ever travelled in a stage the lame
cliftance, so good a road iu America.
August ii. dim.eotf.
Philadelphia, ISth July, 1797.
NOTICE is hereby given, that separate pre*
pofals withfcaled covers will be rectived
at my office until the glevenfh day of September
next, to furnilh by contrail the following ar
ticles for the ofe of the Army of the Unitei
States ip the year 1798.
Pirft Contra Si for
8 Sergeanti coats
1 Huliciam, do. j
10 Sergeants vest» Dragoan».
126 Pi ivates coats
l»6 Privates vesta
1 £4 Sergeants eoita
31 Mulkiana, do.
9& Sergeants vefls
194 Wocle» overallt ArtiHerilb
19a Linea overalls J> &
936 Privates coats Engineers.
936 di>. veils
187* Woolen ovwallj
1871 Linen do. (
144 Serjeants coats
71 Muficiani, do.
a 16 Sergeants veil.
Linen overalla
43a Woolen do. ■ Infant^.
1893 Privates coata
1891 do. veils
3784 Woolen overalls
3784 Linen do.
iftContraA, for üBB Serg<-»!s ftiytt
11816 Privates 00.
11600 Socks
ad Contrail, for 271 pair leather breeches
jd Contrail, for pair boots
464.0 p*ir (hoes, No. 1
Bcoe pair do. No. a
4th Contrail, for 103 a Artillerists and Engi
neers hats
aioß Infanlry doi
136 Dragoon caps
The whole to be delivered at the city of Phila
delphia, viz.
One fourth** or before the 15th day of Fe
bruary next.
One fourth on ar before the 15th day of A
pril next.
The remaining half on or before the 15th day
•f June next.
The articles are to be agreeable to such ps»-
ferns as shall be direiUd by the Secretary for the
Department of War.
Payments to be made as feon as the aj»t i«lc
1 (hall be delivered, and palted infpeflion.
TSNCH FRANCIS, Purwy*-.
eoti
Young Hyson I ea.
40 chests of a superior quality—Alio,
100 do.pf Hyson,
Imported in the IVoodrop Sims, and for fair by
1 the fubferibers, corner of Second and Pine
■ street.
C. Haight.
J June 11. eot f
Imported in the Jhip Pigou,
And for l'ale by John Morton, No. 116, South
Front-street,
Hyson
Hyson Skin Oij'E \S
Young Hyson (
Imperial J
April 20.
Chocolate and Mustard
Manufactured-as usual,
Ginper and Fepper ground
J Shelled or Pearl Barley
- Bhilade'phia Porter, Beer, AU and Cyder
: London Porter
Taunton and Button Ale
3 Red Port and other Wines, eithe bottled,
* or by the pine, quarter-calk or gallon—fuiub'e
for exportation or home confmnption—
For Sale by
I y°h" Haivorth.
No. !buth Tront flr^c»'
By John N°* 119 Chefnui Street.
Wiggins' Specific
i rot tbi
PREVENTION AND CURE OF IHE
rsLiotv enruK.
y?VF,R fmc'2 thij difealc made ''..'h ravajresiq t'lis
t * city and New-* ork, the auth:;.- hu. t .ri.cj IJs
attention to its cancel, asjd cure. — l'fie re'uit of his
enquiries has convinced him that tuc rwhy so
few peri'onj recover from its attad.-, -arc fr»m its
hot being well uudcriiood, :.nd i : ccj ijueat
wrors; method tiiketi to cur: jt. is [^riuadert
that <he cxccflive *ud Ipcrcuriil rratmeat
of thj Faculty'i* highly injurious, aad that the on
ly Twlionalmode of treatment is by the use of proper
aci.ls. ; Convinced of this ht offers his Sf ici/ic as a
certain rwnedy, if ufeil actordiug to the dircitions.
To be had in bottles, at oue dollar each,' of
inventor Gn. Hijvim, Cherry street, two doors a
bove Ninth street, (late manager of Jackson end
Co'aMedicine YVarehoufe, London); by 'J. /.?-
iiaUc, No. 116 ; IVI Griffith, No. 177, 7". Pc.ircc % No.
ai,South Third street, T. Sfff, No. sj,J!ew (Ircet,
near Vine street, and J. Sales, No. 36, Race fireet.
■r»U»- 4J. tuths jt
RAN-A W A Y, "
ON the lfl. infl. from the Subfc.iber, an
apprentice lad, named Kendal Merrill,
photii twenty yeans of age, by trade a Tailor,
and had about fix months to serve. Any per
son who will apprehend laid run away, l'o that
he may he itturned to the Suhfcriber, will
receive a handi'uine reward and leafonablc
EDVVAKD GRAHAM.
Sept. '7. to. fjt.
City Commijfioners Office,
August 29, 1797.
IN pur fuar.ee of an Ordinance of the SelutSl and
Common Councils, paCed the aid day of May lad
Proposals in writing will be ruceivejliy the City
Ctiraimilioijars for one month fi"t)m the Ift of Sep
tember next, for.l«ttiog t<; rent ou leasts for ntie
year to commence the firil dajr of January next, the
following public property of the c*y—
The wha/i and landing on Vint Street,
Also on SaQafrmi,
Mulberry,
And High Streets,
Chefnut and Walnut Streets, Draw Eridge, witk
tha Scale and Fi(h Houses, Spruce, Pine and Cedar
Streets.
The cellar under the City-Hall.
The Tavern at the middle ferry on Schuylkill,
with the lots contiguous thereto, (except so much
thereof as shall be occupied by any buildings eredl
ed for the use of the Colle&or of the i'olls, or ba
aeccffary for the toll-gates.)
Aug. 3 3tawim.
TO BE SOLD,
And pojfcjjion givtn immediately,
A LARGE two (lory brick H«ufe,handforaely
Gtuated in Princeton. There are four rooms
and a large entry on each floor, and five rooms in
the garret, a range of back buildings 51 feet in
langth, and apiaxzaof 57 feet. There is a'pump
in the yard, an excelleut kitchen garden, at the
farther end of which are a carriage bouse and two
flables, one of which is new, 44 feet long, witk
flails in the two tables fdr 47 hones. The heal
thiness and pleasantness ot its situation, and the
number of genteel and agreeable familievin and
naar the town, render it a deferable retreeat for a
gentleman from the city. The commodioufnefs of
the house, its central position, and the largeßefs of
the flables, make it eve ry fuitablc for a tavern, for
which it has always been considered as a capital
stand. Inquire on the prtmifes. of
ISAAC §NOWDEN, jwn.
Frinattou, Arg. 15 19 —dlwiawtf
80 Dollars Reward.
LAST night the {hop qH the fuhfcr!ber was op
ened, i-.nU several articles taken off, viz. a
common hlack hather pocket book, containing two
twentydollarnoteg cf the last emiilion of
l/lvania Bank, and a number of loose papers—
one pinchback watch with a carved cflfe, and fix
fdyer cries—one of thcfc a French watch, original
ly made to tell the day of the month, hut this part
of the workshad been talicn out—the figures on the
dial ptate were left—Another wes made by Love
-1 nd, London, the numbvr 31 13 ; a hird wa< mark
ed on the dial plate as wcl as the inside Amber,
New-York. No further part-culsri are n colled
•4. Whoever discovers the thief, or thieves, so
that they may be profecutcfi to Convi&ion and tha
property recovered, ihafl have the above reward,
yorty dollars wiL be paid for the alone,
or in proportion for<any of st
THOMAS LINDSAY.
N. B. all watchmakers are req-ufud to flop
he above watches if offeied for laic,
j* Frankford, August 19.
Am'. 11.
" IMP O R r El)
!m tht fliip America, James Ewirg, master, from
Hamburgh,
Bxown Hollands
White PiatiJlaa
Coarfc Linens
1 apes
Looking gaffes "> i(|
Glass 1 umbiers j
FOR SALE BY
George Pennock.
Au«ufi 14. 3 aw
An elegant House in Arch Street.
TO be let and entered on immediately a large
and eiepant house at the Corner of Arch and
Ninth Street. are two drawing rooms
and one dinißg room—the largest is 31 feet by
26 —and two are so conne>sled by folding doors
as to make but one. Also, five bed rooms, be
sides 5 in the garret, well finilhed for fervanu.
There are (tables and a coach house, with evry
convenience for a family. Enquire at No, 29,
in North Seyenth street, or at No. 218, Arch
Street;
Aug. i;.
PETER BURGER,
INFORMS his friends and the public in general
that he has removed from No. 119, corner of
Arch and Fourth, to No. 105 North Front, be
tween Arch and Race ftr^efs.
2-. M"'4'v
Rtfs & Simfon,
a AVE TOR SAI.E
C Hogfiieadji,
Excellent Coffee in Tierces, and
Barrel^.
A (mall parcel of nice cocoa in
A few puncheons Jamaica spirits, fourth proof
Superior 'l'eneriFee wine, old a:ri in Madeira pipes
An invoice of jewellery and hosiery t© be fold by
the package
A few hampt r$ IjtfftlinglHh chctfe.
July 2j.
Imported inthefhipMANCHESTER,
Benjamin Sheweil, Mafter^
From Bourdeaux, and for sale by the fubferiber,
No. ii Walnut St eet.
Bonrdeaux Bir.ndy
Irish. market claret in cases Entitled to
Medoc wine, in do. Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do.
Thomas Murgatreyd.
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
4000 bushels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stf. ,
A PERSON OF INGENUITY, lately arrived
from Europe, vViAes to find here a place in
the quality of a Director of a Olafs-houfe, Chryf
tal of all l»'ind», having particular means for the
ccnltru&ioa of the kilns, pots, &c. and poffefiing
■ likewise the articles used in the Glals houses of
England and France, having worked a long while
in mtft of th«m. Every exertion wiil be made to (
render the,manufactory deiervicg of public appro
bation—He, who wifius to fpdak to Lim, will snd
him at No. 275 IYoUt-ftieet.
Far lale or c 6 be let on ground
rent, •
A-ualuabU Lot 9/ Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-east cerner of Wal
nut and Fifth Sreets, fronting the State
lloufe square. This lot is fifty-one feet front
on WJluut fireet, and one hundred ar.tj thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at
pre/'ent two fnlaH two story brick houses, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Also, for Sale,
Two three llory Brick Houses
With convenient floret, wharf, <3tc. situate on
Water-flreet,(between Mulberry and Saflafras
streets, containing in front 011 Water street fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east
ward nine:y-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen fe«t fix inches. Thele "houses
ave the convenisnce of a public alley adjoining
011 the north fide,'and are a very deGrable situa
tion for a merchant, flour faflor,or others who
may have occasion for storage of goods. This
property will be fold on very reasonable terms
for cash. For further information apply to the
printer.
July ti. m&wtf
The Subscriber has for Sale,
A large aflortment of India Muslins,
coarse and fine
India Calicoes
Sooty Romalls
B'tte Cloth* and Checks
Bandanna Handkerchiefs
Blue red and Oilli Handkerchiefs
An invoice ef Irifli Linens and Sheetings, well
aflortcd ,
A box of Diapers
Silk Umbrellas
Two boxes of fine Spices, cotaining Nutmegs,
Mace and Cloves
Black Pepper of firft quality
East India Ginger
Java Sugar
A quantity of Madeira Wio*
Ditto of Gin
Roll Briinftonc
Mordecai Leivis.
u. J»wim
Cedar Shingles. s
THE fubferiber has a quantity of $ feet Cedar
Shingles cf a superior quality, for sale at 1.5 I
dollars p»r thousand.
William Hallo-well,
No. 193 North Tbird-Jlrtst.
July eoist
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby" Given,
THAT agreeably to an til of Corgrcfs of the
United States of America, pasTed at Phila
delphia, tke aßth day of May, X 7 96 i laying du
ti*» on Carriages, for the conveyance of persons,
which (hall fee kept by or for any perfor.. for his
or her own use, or to let cut to hire, or for the
conveyance of t&e several duties and
rate* following, to wit :
For and upon every Ceach, 15 dols.
upon every Cfpjiot, 12 dells,
upon every Post Chariot, 12 dols.
upon every Poil Cl>aife, 11 doU.
upon every Phaeton, with or without top,
9 doW.
upon every
upou other Carriages, having pannelworl:
above, with blinds, oi curtains,
9 dols.
upon four wheeled Carriages, having fra
med pofU and top* with ileel springs, 6
. dols.
upon four wheeled Carriages,with wood
en v pr iron springs or jacks, 3 dols.
upon Curricles with tops, 3 dois.
1 upon Chaises with
upon Chairs with cops, 3 dols.
1 u 01) other two whefcl top carriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carriages, with ilitel or
iron
For and upon all othcMwo wheel carriages, z dols.
upon every four wheeled carriage, having
framed polls and tops, and relling up
on wooden spars, 2 dols.
The ColletSlors of the Revenue for the firfl Sur
vey of the Dillridt 6f Pennsylvania, will ?ttend
daily, until the 30th day of September nixt, for
the puipofe of receiving the duties on Carriages, at
No, 117, in Race or SalTafras-ftreet, in the City oi
Philadelphia; at the house of Daniel St, Clair,Efq.
in the County of Montgomery; nnd at thehoule
of James Chapman, Esq. in the County of Buck* :
of which all perfonspofieffed of luch Carriage ar f
desired to take notice.
Notice is also giyen,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dif
tilled spirituous liquors, that licences will begrar.t
ed to them ; one licence ior carrying on the busi
ness of detailing of Wines, in a left quantity, or 1
in less quantities than thirty gallon v—and one li
cence for carrying on the bntlnofs ol retailing Spi
rituous liquors in less quantities cha>u -o gallons, at
the fame time and at the fame places, by the offic
ers legally authorifed'U* grant such licence?.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpeilor of tl»e Rt venue of the firft fui
vcy of rheDiftri& of Fennfylvauia.
Olfice of InfpeAion ?t
Philadelphia, 3d r 7 r y
Thomas Herman Leuefer,
Norrh fifth street, coiner of North alky, No. 34,
HAS FOR SALE}
"JT^XCELLENT red fctourdeaux Wine in ca&s#*4
-I—* boxes, fix years old
Whit e Graves Wine in caOtts
Tick leu burgs
RuQa Sail Clcr.hs
Ravens Duck
BagLimm
Heffrans
diaper
linspty
Cononuon German Clorh 1
s n uflfortmentof black coloured Ribbons
Fine German
Aboijt twelve tons Russia ciean Hemp
Clover Seed
Italian Soap, in small boxes, for family ule
Window Glass Aug. 29 -law
THIS DAY WAS PUBLISHED, "
And for sale by THOMAS DOB SON, at the
Stone House, No. 41, foutli Second street.,
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED.
CotifitUng of a variety of Mifceiianeous Pieces Ttlr
'lie inftraflion and amusement of YOUNCJ PER
SONS—SixVolumesfcandfamcly priatedand bound
up iu two volumes, price Two Dollars.
The variety and excellence of these pieces are
such, that the book needs only to he known to be
universally efleemed one of the moll valuable pub
lications th t can be put into the hands ojyrourig
persons.
" Delightful taflc to rear the tender thought,
To teach the young idea how to (hoot,
T» pour tl»« frelh ic(lru<stion o'er the mind,
To breathe th' enlivening fpirit,and to fix
The generous purpose in the glowing l>*ia(l."
.Thomson.
August 24. mwf^vr
~ THIS D -* Y IS PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS DO3SON, at the Stone House,
No. 41, south Second ilreet,
Letters and Conversations,
Between several Young Ladiet, on improving and ia«
tereftihg fubjeAi.
Traoflated from tke Dutch of Madame de CatiUr t
with alterations and improvements,
Printed en Jine pater, and neatly found,
Priee one dollar.
AMIDST the tide of modern Romances, paintingj
tales of extraordinary diftrefs,.or of desperate cr
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," and
which i* would be for the honor of young ladies to
be Ignorant of, this little book comes forward to for
licit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds of real life, the proper,
elegant and natural dignity and importance of the Female.
cbaraSler is exhibited in an interesting point of view f
and presents examples of real and attainable excel-
Wnee.
The publiftier was fomuch pleafedwith the pem»
sal, that he was persuaded he (hould do a pleasing
service to the community by fending it in o circu
lation. August 24—mw4w
To Master s and Pilots bringing tep
from Foreign P»rts to th'u City.
TT7"Herea» fundi y infringements have latnly bee*
VV made on the laws of this Hate for the pra»
venting pestilential or infe&lous diseases, eithoi
from ignorance or inattentioa thereto, it is tho't
expedient at this time to publifb the following ex
tracts from the l*ws of ltd April, 1794, 7th anrf
Bth fe&ions.
HEALTH-OFFICE.
June 6th, 1794;
ExtraS of an ad for Jtcarir.g the city and pert
of Philadelphia frt m tbt introdußion of fejli*
Untial and contagious difcafet.
Sfct. 7. And be it further onaded, that «v#ry
mailer or captain of any (hip or re (Tel coming from
sea (vefl'els aituaily tmployed in the coating trade
excepted) and bound to any port or plate within
the jurii'didtio.n of Pennfylvania,fhaU canfe his Clip
or veflel to be brought to anchor,or othtrwife flay
ed in the stream of the river Delaware, oppofiti to
the Health-Office on State-Iflsnd aforefaid, end
there to remain until he fliall have duly obtained «
certificate or bill of heal h from the Rafident Phy
sician. Andii, previously to obtaining such certi
ficate or bill of health, any niafter or captain shall
fufferhisihip or veflel to approach nearer than the
said Health-Office to the city of Philadelphia, or
(bail land, cause orfuifer to be landed, or brought
on shore, at any place or port within this Cotr.-
mDnweaith, or at any othar port or place, with the
intent of being conveyed into thi Commonwealth,
any pcrfon or peifons, or any goods, wares or mer
chandize, or, if after receiving fnch bill of health
o; certificate, he fnall neglect or refufe to deliver
the fame to the Health-Officer, such mafler or cap
tain (ball forfeit and p:y, for each and every fuci»
offence, thefumof five hundred dollars.
And the captain or mailer of overy Ihip or ve£»
fel shall fend a fafe and commodious boat to br?»g
the physician on board, and shall in like manner
tonv y him back to the Health-Office, after he h?.i
concluded his official examination ; And while lie
is making such examination, or in rase any fubfc
quert exa ninatiou by the Heal h Officer or Coq
lulting Physician, agreeably to the d reitions of
thi ait, the mailer or captain (ballexpole or caulo
to be cxpofed to thefearch of the Resident Phyfi
cian,or otthe Health OfHcer and Confuting Physi
cian (as the cafe may be) each and every part of th«
(hip or veflel, and shall present to his view each
and every person or perfors on board thereof, and
and shall also true and fatisfa&ory answers inako
to all such questions as the Resident Physician, &e.
at the time of examination shall ask relative to the,
health of any potior plaee fr»m which the ship cr.
veflel failed, or has fuice touched at—she number,
of persons on board when the Ihip or veflel entered
on her voyage—the number of persons that havei
fmce been landed or taken on beard, and whe*,
and \yhererefpe&ively—whatperfoas en board—,
f they have been during the voyage, or shall, at.
the time of examination, be infc&ed with any pet
tilential cir contagious diieafe—and what is the pra
fent (late and condition cf the persons on board
with rcfpc.s to their hsalth or diseases. And i(?
any mailer or refufe to expose as afore
aid, to the search of any of the officers aforcfai4.
/, if he shall c&nesalanyJtck ptrfun, o> in any otbsr mam*.
j*r deceive the proper pjjieert pforefaid in bis
uch captain or mafler,for every such offence, iliall
forfeit and pay the iutn of five hundred »a».-
LAiis.
Seci. 8. And if apy pcrfon or persons whatf®-
ever (the Resident Physician, &s. excepted) ihali
jro on board any veffe!, before the mafler thereof
has received a certificate of health in the manner
direited, every person so offenaing, (hall pay the
um cf ONE UUNUSED DOLLARS.
IT beisgabfolutelyneceflarythat the foregoing
feiSions (hould be punctually complied with, the
fubferiber, m compliance with his duty, mull ex
ail a rigorous obfjrvance of the fame, or else be
unjer tin ncceffity of putting the Isws in force.
}Yn. ALLUN, Hsalll Officer of ihe
Fe/ t *f # iy.l&LlpbUi.
Juiy T4-
[Volume XII.%St 0a s'ettc-
PHIL 4 DEL PHI A,
/ifftffort OJtce, 6th Sept. 1797.
Sir,
tn .compliance with orders received by the
this day, you are hereby required to hold in
hradins 3 to trlarch at a mmnent's warning,
the fifth, fisth, seVenth and eighth classes df
the eoni'pntiies composing your regiment, in
order to form the body of 817 men from the
brigade of tbis city; and as soon as possible
inform me of your proceeding, that I may
filake my report to his excellency the com
tr.ander in chief. lam &c.
LEWIS NICOLAS, Infpeftor.
Inform me of the number of notices your
/ regiment will require, and theyfltjll be
hilhed without delay.
C<»l. Gur!jev, or Officers 1
Commanding the jtb regiment. j
The Commiflioners appointed by the
Governor, to carry into efte& the law fcr
alleviating the diftrefa of the Citizens of Phi
ladeiphia, and the niburbs thereof; inform
tlieir fellow-citizens, that they have attend
ed to their appointment, and now invite
them to recommend in writing, signed by
one or shore reputable inhabitant, such of
the indigent as may come to their know
ledge who will be assisted as they may Hand
in need, by applying at the State-House,
froo: 3 to £ o'clock, on the 6th infl. and
every second, fourth and sixth days of the
wok, called Monday, and
1 ridiy, at the fame hours, while necelTary ;
nad ;nofe who want employ, may likewise
apply as above, of to either of the commif
lioners at their dwellings.
Compu/jiontrs. for the city.
Robert Wharton, S. Third-street, No. 135.
George Krebc, N. Fifth-flreet, No. 17.
John James, ditto No. 18.
Israel Ifracl, comer of Chefnut Si Third St.
'Thomas Skviery, N. Fifth-ftreet, No. 20.
Edward Garrigues, Cherry-street, No. 39.
Comni//toners for the Northern Liberties.
Samuel Wjieeler, Vine-street, No. 99.
John Wagner, Noble-street.
George lnglis, New Market-street.
Comrmflioners for Southtvari.
Samuel Church, "corner South & Water St.
William Lennard, South Second-ftrecti
Jlobcrt M'Mullen, Swanfon-flreet.
Philadtlphia, September 5, 1797.
Prom it, COLUMBIAN CEX7INEL.
MR RtHSfLI.,
AS f'lmr f»ss averted by the secretary of slate,
fn his letter to Mr. Pinckney, of January 16th,
1797, are deni d in a publication in the Gnxrttt
Nation*!, or XTonilevr Uiiiverfat, a translation of
Which appeared in the Cctitinelof Aug. 13d, I Tend
you an extra-51. coried verbatim, from an English
impreflion of a work of the late M. Briffot. pub
lifbe.-J in Paris, in the year-1791 ; vvhicli confirms
the trul'j of what the writer in the French paper,
»bovs-meminn«d. is pleafej to call, " an accusation
as falfe as it is wicked.** Jours, Z A. Y. A.
1 " At the time," fay* he. " when the different
powers were establishing the basis of the peace of
1793, M. Vetgennes. a&uated bv private, vi ws,
wanted to persuade the ambafladors f rom the con
grels, 10 confine themfclves to tbeir fifisriu, and re
nouneethe w fiern territory ; that is, an cxtenfiva
and fertile country beyond the Alleghanics. This
tninifter particularly inlifted that the isuhpendem-e of
America Jhould not be one of the fundamental'principles of
the treaty, but merely contingent. To fuccted in this
project, it was ncteflary to gain over iMetlrs. Jay
and Adams. Mr. Jay declared that he would fa
erifice bis life sooner than sign such conditions;
that the Americans fought for their independence,
and that they would not lay down their arms until
it waseompletely obtained ; that the court of Franc*
had acknowledged it, and could not confidently
reeal the avows l . Mr. Jay did not find it diffi
cult to hold Mr. Adams in the fame opinion ; nor
*«euld M. Vergennes everfubdue hit inflexibility."
N.B Th« reader will reeolleS, that Mr. Pick
ering mentions in bis letter to Mr. Pinckney, that
'" for some time Dr. Franltlin and Mr. f<sy, v/ere alone
at Paris." The contcft had begun between Mr.
Jay and M-Vergenfle*, before Mr. Adams reached
Paris; but it ap cars tjiat he and his colleague Mr.
Jay, were ejuslly frm in supporting the interests of
the United States. Sept. I, 1797J
From tie NF.IV-YOSK GAZETTE, We.
The directory appear of kte t« have roused the
just indignation of the council of five hundr»d, ma
ny of the most virtuous members of which have o
penly charged it with the g-reateft dilapidations of
the public monies; with conniving at the glaring
injustice and rapacity of four of the miniflers ap
pointed by them ; with a fliamefnl and criminal
ne in not making provision for the mainten- I
ance and support of the poor, the sick, aad other
objefls of charity entruded to their care and fuper
intendance, who are daily dying for want of means
of fubfnlenee ; with mifa)>p!yiiig the appropria
tions of public money made for the most neccffary,
just and ufeful objeiSs, to improper and useless pur
poses. The dire&ery like all ufurp«rs in aneient
times, and like all the factions who have got upper
mot in France during their revolution, know the
necefli'y of keeping the army on their fide, which
is eaCly done while they hold the purse, but who
will forfake them as soon as a llronger party rises
up and forcibly wrcfts it froci them ; which it in
variably has done towards all the factions who have
at different times got the purse into their hands by
the Jeftruflion of those who had it in pofieffion.
It is an established fait, that before any of the nu
merous factions who have for eight years domina
ted in France, ventured to denounce the faflion it
wilhed to dfftroy.that they previously had the pru
dence arid wisdom to fend agents to the armies, to
secure by gifts and promises their support, which
when attainej, they dared to come boldly forward,
denounce,and condemn to death,thofe who were in
power. So in Rome, under the emperors, great
eare was always taken to secure th: affetSions of the
soldiery. Oae day Domna. the mother of Caracal
la, blamed the ejnperor her son for being so lavilh
towards thefoldiers, as toexliaufl all the money '*- j
mailed and l*ft in the public coffers by his father. |
•' Make yourftlfe afy, mother, (rejoined Caraealla) J
with their swords 1 will nevtr want." These are j
the dying worcs of Septimus Scverus to his son : [
« Take care of the army, never mind the other [
Members of the state."
Do not these few words include al! the revolution
■ try Ktrality ps princes and falfe republicans who
imitate them ? The I'yftcm which bore so long a
time, and fti'J bears on the French republic, owes
its honor t® the fcrvile imi'ators among them, cf
the ancient system of emperors and kings who were
above the laws. CaraeaUa profited by the laftcour
fel« of hi* dying fa 1 her : under his very long
vo part of hi=. Jiibjeits were r garded but his r,I
wiers ; h" reserved al! hi; severity for tho'e ciri\
zens whole enlightened minds he feared, or whofc
riches he coveted.
liad the men in who usurped and fuc»r- '.
etl to thcmftlves by frW • and blooit the ercrcife of
'the powers rf fo*rrnmer.t undrr ti c present con
ftittition, instead of takirj tv.'o thirds of the c>ld
butchering Convention to make the new rpprifeh
tatiun, left the citizens at large the freedom of an
entire new election, Enrupe would two years ego
have been at peace—'France woifl.j have had lef3.
internal wounds to heal, and would Hot have 6e«n
obliged to pay a forced loan of at least a (liird of
whnt each man pofieffed, forcibly demanded with
the bayonet at his breaft,their young men torn from
their friends to be butchered in extending a terri
tory ton large already; nor would thcUnitc' Slates
have fufiered the incalculable loiTes which a liflip!?
nnauthorifed dicree of riie piratical, lawless direc
tory has produced.
By the amazing extension rf the territories of
Fmrrcc at the cxpence of internal happiness and
profnerity, her diabolical ufsjrping rulers havefown
the feeds of civil discord, of despotic
(which is net imp'rdbabU) of a
difmembermentofthe foutbei n ahd nonhern parts
of the empire into'two difiiniS IndepibdJfit fove.
reignties : snd, as we know the ajtibi.ion of the
" Five Headed Monster, 1 ' it is rery probable that
each of them may have «onceived the design ih in
creasing the impofiibitity of governing France by a
republican fyflem, from an overgrown territory
and population,of conl'ofidating the other four heads
into ONE—HIS OWN.
From th: Virginia Gazette, &c.
No. VII.
A DfivELdPEMENT OF THE CAUSES OT THE
DISTURBANCES BETWEEN THE AMERI
CAN AND TRENCH REPUBLICS.
ylddrefjed to the Ciltieu* of America.
MY FELLOW-CITIZENS,
IN the fncc?eding pafTages of the fame
letter, from Mr. Jefferfon to M. Mazzei,
we fee the fame opinion and misrepresentation
of the difference of sentiment between the
people and the government of America re
j peated, in still stronger terras ; and the fame
hint for the French to profit by that djver
fity of sentiment, held out in rsuah higher
colours, of the fame figurative kind for
which its author is so remarkable, than in
the parts just touched .upon.
" I fhonld give you a fever," eonvinues
thi» celebrated letter-writer, " If I flu»uld
name the apostates who have embraced these
hcrffies ; men who were Solomons in council '
and Sampsons in combat, but whose hair
has been cut o/fhy the whore of England."
Here is not only the fame declaration of
the division of our country, but a positive
averment that even those who had formerly
been diftin#uifhedfortheir wisdom andprow
efs in the defence of it, were now rendered
too weak and fufpefted by their attachment
to Great-Britain, to be feared by those who
choose to attack us. Who these Solomons
in council and Sampsons in combat were, is
too obvious to need an explanation. " They I
would wrest from u»," however, it seems, 1
notwithstanding this Sampfonic diminution
of their ftrcngth, " that liberty which we
have obtained by so much labour and peril;
but we shall preserve it. Our mafi of weight
and r/ches is so powerful, that we have no
thing to fear from any attenpt again ft us
by force. It is fyfficient that we guard our
selves, and that we break the lilliputian ties
by which they have bound us, in the firft
slumbers which succeeded our labours.'''
Can it be imagined that these sentiments
ever flowed from the pen of an Ameriean ?
And yet, that they did, I have not the
smallest question now rayfelf ; and doubt not
but that I shall prove it to the fulleft fatie
fadlion of ?very one who will be at the trou
ble of reading these papers before I have
finilhed. It begins already to be admitted;
and the excuse prepared to be offered for
this ftrangS and unaccountable attachment
to France, at the expense of our own coun
try, is, the old'ftyry of the nevetvo-be fa
tisficd deht of gratitude to that nation. In
deed the lad sentence in the letter itfelf pro
nounces its own apology. " It fuffices,"
fays th; letter, " that we arrest the progrefj
of that system of ingratitude and injuflice to
wards France, from which,they would alien
ate us, to bring us under British influence."
It becomes necessary, in order to find
out how far this is a fufacieat apology for
such conduft, to make some short enquiry
into this fubjeft ; which is rendered the more
easy and contra£t«d by what has been alrea
dy said by others, whose arguments I fitall
endeavor to avoid as far as pofiible.
It has been rendered manifeft by public
documents from the French themselves* that
they never thought of rendering us any as
sistance at all, until they had supposed our
| independence was well established by
ourselves ; and in the conclusion of the war
it has been proved by the fame authority,
that the independence of America was not
theirobjeft when they rendered us that aflift
ance ; but that they endeavored, all in their
power, to thwart U9 in that desirable objeft.
And in the secret papers of Louis the XVI,
published by order of the convention after
his death, it appears from the of
that prince's two f counsellors, Turgot &
de Vergennes, that it was the policy of
that court, by rendering us afiiftance, there
by to prolong the war between Great-Britain
and this country, as far as it could, in or- j
der to exhaust and weaken both, with a view '
of reducing the resources of her antient and '
dreadful enemy, Great-Britain, both at home 1
and abroad, as low a3 possible. To this )
history of their motives in assisting us, I will I
add one other piece of testimony, which!
appears to have been overlooked, and which"
will not, it is presumed, be called in ques
tion by any American ; it is the testimony
of Dr. Franklin, one of our ministers cm
ployed in the whole of our negociations at
Paris, on the fnbje£ts of the revolution, our
independence, &c. That well remembered
lerican, in a letter to governor Pownall,J
a member of the British parliament, friendly
to America, declares, that one of the con
ditions required by France, as a confedera
tion for her entering into a treaty of alliance
with America, was, that we fhcnld become
tributary to them ; and, therefore, that all
* See Mr. Pickering's letter to Mr. Piuci
ney in Paris.
•(■ See Mr. Harper's ad<we/s to his conjli.'u
ents, -which I wsuld recommend to the perusal
of all /merit ans.
J See Powriali'sfptech in Brit. Par!. 1777,
in which Fretnilin's letter is cited•
protpecls of negociating -'were at an end ;
and, that. then was the time, it ever, for
Great-Britain.again to' (Vcure the colonies
to herfelf," upon 'terms favorable and honora
ble to both countries!
ThiVwas still the fame fyjtem of Turcot
and "Vergennes,'of reducing and
refourcej of Great-Britain, improved, by an
attempt to draw a cpufiderable part of those
/powers and resources into their own hssds.
But I will not reft the discharge
debt of gratitude entirely oil tho motives which
induced France to enter inte an alliance with
us ; but will admit, that, let the motives
have been what they would, we are indebt
ed for all the real benefits which their aHi fi
ance afforded us ; and that, although France
might have conceived herfelf at the time of
entering into that alliance, that oyr inde
pendence was in a great measure fecuredby
our own exertions ; yet, it is a fait to be
acknowledged,that we were, long that,
reduced to a very critical and almost despe
rate point with refpedt to the real establish.
ment of that independence ; and, finally,
that her affiuanc?>at York-Town in Virgin
ia, aided very much in the completion-os our
revolution. Yet, I cannot agree, that a to
tal surrender of that independence, even if
they have bestoWed it on us, ought to be
made the return for those services. If we
are so much indebted ingratitude, that noth
ing but a surrender of the thing for which
we are thus indebted, can fatisfythe demand,
then is the obligation destroyed by the very
nature of the demand itfelf; there being no
confederation left on the part of America ;
; and it being a principle in all fair dealing,
that there is no real obligation where there
is no consideration. The vast ainount of
the debt being an acknowledgment of the
great value of the thing for which we are
thus indebted, is a fuffitient confeffion of it
elf, of the Vatl injury also, which wpuld be
done us by the payment which is demand
ed ; for, that a total surrender of our inde
, pendence, is the only return that would
fatisfy ow generous allies for the services they
have rendered, the wretched state of slavery
and beggery to which they have reduoed
the Dutch awl Belgians for similar services,
too loudly proclaims. These deluded peo
ple, particularly the Dutch, confiding in
their profefiions of friendfhip and good-will
for their welfare, fuffered, nay, invited them
to take poflefiion of their country, overturn
their government, pull down their dykes,
convert their fhijis to their own warlike
purposes, and destroy the independence of
their trade ; by which one of the most fru
gal and money-making people in Europe (
were reduced to nought ; and all for what ?
To give them an independent government in
return, of French chaofing, under which, they
had to fnbmit to the opprefllons of their ar
mies, and furnifh them with supplies of pro
vision* and actual money, by way of requi-
Jit 'wn, to the amount of at least fifty-five
millons of dollars : While the Belgians were
aftually put under military government, and
plundered of two hundred and fifty millions
of dollars ( under pretence of destroying the
clergy) and made to furnifh their armies
with provisions at the point of the bayonet;
and this too, all under the express -profef
fions of felting them free, and making them
independent and happy. What have we to
expedl from an entire ful»miffion to their de
mands on the score of difchnrging our great
debt of gratitude, who, from their own ac
knowledgments through Turgot and Ver
gennes, were only aflilled with a view of
prolonging the war, to deflroy us and Great-
Britain together : Ana what are we indebt
ed, when the demand for that assistance actu
ally turns out to be that very deffruSio*
which they thus contemplated and dtlired
when the service was afforded.
Where there is an intention of doinggood,
there is no obligation due, even if that in
tention fails in its defrred end 5 but if we
are to be indebted for a favor done, where
there was no intention of doing any, then
certainly should we be released, when that,
which we considered a favor at ftrft, is at
tempted to be turned into an injury in the
end. Thug, although the motives for ren
dering a service have little or nothing to do
with the obligation due for that service, yet
the end to which that service goes, has
something to do with the obligation.'itfelf.
If, for instance, an individual renders me a
service, and just as that service is about to
have it j itiofl valuable effedt, that individual
steps in and claims all its benefits tohimfelf
to my utter ruin—where is the benefit to
me, where the great obligation I am wnder
to him ? To turn this familiar and plain
ftatc of the cafe, from private life, into the
great and important national dispute be
tween France and America, 1 will just make
a short statement of fime of the naoft im
portant points on which this great debt of
gratitude rests ; which I will illustrate with
a few examples as familiar and plain is the
political way.
France, it will be acknowledged, render
ed us eminent service at the siege of York ;
for which, whatever might have been her
motives or opinions refpefting the progress
we had made in the revolution towards our
independence when fhc entered into the al
liance, we are much indebted : but then,
it must be acknowledged too, that there was
another point of our revolution,prior to both
the siege of York and the alliance too, to
which great consideration Should be had, as
produftive, or at lcaft highly efTeutial, in
producing both these great events. Every
body remembers to what a low ebb we were
reduced in December 1776, and January
1777, long before the treaty ofalliance was
formed. The times of our soldiers expir-
every comfort, every neceflary
and every inducement wanting to intice
them to re-inlifl, America had to face at
least twenty thousand prime British troops,
with about two thousand five hundred uu
difciplined, worn out, naked and heartless
men, when that celebrated and never-to-be
forgotten turn was given to the war, t>y the
affairs of Trenton and Princeton,-which arc
to be considered as the two neighboring
Tlxrmopylas of America. Allowing tke
French every possible erf slit fortheir assistance
at York, without regard to their motives for
entering into the alliance, as I have already
done, what let me ask, would those services
have availed us in 1781, had we been-con
quered, at this critical period of the war,
in 1776 ?
' Prior to 'tfee battle of Trenton, which
mayjuftly be ftiled the pivot on which the
fate of the American revolution turned, the
French had fliewn no great decilion in our
favor , and never, till after the capture of
Burgoyne (which, however lowVe might
have been reduced after, until the decisive
blow at York, helped to lay the foundation
of that final success) was her friendfhip at
all aftive : In the firft ot these Memorable
events, which is justly to be considered a
kind of supernatural intervention in our fa
vor, at that awful and alarming crisis, we
can be at no loss id pointing out the great
and principal agent. In the latter, we have'
to form a melancholy chasm in the holy book
of gratitude, when we reflect that an Arnold
was a most important instrument ; for who
has ever thought of gratitude to him for
those services, which he afterwards attempt
ed to turn to such a wretched conclusion ?
And who can think with patience of grati
tude to France, when /he demands all, and
more no than we ever gained by her afjijlance
for the favor ? The moment (he assumed a
claimlikc this,(he abandoned the true ground
on which our gratitude was founded, and left
us more indebted to her, than (he herfelf is
to Dumourier for his passed services. It is
the end, not the beginning of aftions, which
eftablilhes their cbaradter ; and France her
felf, since she has become a republic, has
carried into aftual praS'ue this principle,
much farther than any other nation in'ths
universe.
-The Marquis de la Fayette, it is well
known, was amongst the firft in that coun
try who .put a hand to tire real work of re
volution. He was the firft to propose the
annihilation of titles—the firft aftual step
towards Republican ism and Equality —iu
which he made a<i eminent perfonaLfacrificc
l)imfelf ; for which Tic Tus been rewarded,
not indeed in this unbounded measure of
gratitude by France,-which she would have
America shew her, but with the
the chains (not indeed of the goddess of
Fcnch liberty for being her enemy) but in
those of neighbouring tvrants for being
theirs. And how ! by the accident of War
which takes from one party a servant, whose
detention and final deftruftion is of conse
quence to the success of the other ? No !
But by the hatred which those have for him,
who, considering and knowing him to be
the real foe to tyranny, have seized upon
the opportunity of his being abandoned by
those who pretended to be the Friends to li
berty (even when from that circumstance he
conld be of n«»' service or injury to either) to
tormentJiim with impunity ?—Americans !
here let the lips in silence be forever closed,
and the eye of gratitude Vrhich travels into
Europe in search ofbbje&S, be forever shut,
left it should return bathed in tears from the
loathforne priior,where this great and distin
guished friend ofAmerican liberty lies breath
ing his lalt for want of a single breath, or
heavenly respiration of real liberty, with re
proaches to the heart !
Whatever*caufe the French may have to
abandon him, America has hone, until he
attempts to turn those services which he has
undoubtedly rendered u ?,*o >ur injury; then,
and then only shall he be relieved from our
obligations to him ; <<nd then too ought we
to he released from our obligations to any
individual, or even nation of individuals.—
The I rnch- the mfelves, it is a fidt, have
carrried the praftice of this principle much
further than any bther nation ; for they
have not only withdrawn their gratitude
from those, who, after rendering them ser
vice, have endeavoured to turn that service
against them ; but it is well known, that
they have executed fcveral of their generals
who had rendered them splendid services,
for the want of a continued success even in
their battles. And by what other principle
have those advoccates for this unbounded
gratitude to France themfilves been govern
ed, who have been endeavouring so long to
alienate our affeftions from a certain merito
rious American, if it is not that that they
have conceited that he was about to turn the
influence of those eminent ferviees 'lie has
rendered against his country ? It is that in
fluence which individuals or nations either
obtain by their services that renders them
dangerous to those they have benefitted :
And upon that principle I will admit, that
if general Washington had at the end of the
late war, have written to a fubjeft of a pet
ty Duledom, bordering on, and subservient
to Great Britain, " that our political situa
tion was prodigiously changed ; thatinftead
of that noble love for liberty and republican
ism, an Anglo-monarchico-ari/locratic party
had arisen in short, that the " principal
body of our citizens', all our proprietors of
lands, and the mass of men of talents, were
opposed to our government," and that those
* At the commencement of the revolution in
1789, the heads of the three parties in France
(via. that ljl. friends to the ancient monarchy,
2d friends to a limited monarchy, 3d for a re
publican government J had a meeting at the
house of Mr. fefferfon, then the JJmcrican am
baffador —at which, after ar. able difcufjton of
several hours, the medium, viz. a limited mo
narchy, was decided on, as the degree to which
the revolution was to go, and whith degree all
parties pledged tbemfelves to each other to sup
port. 1 The Marquis was considered the head
of that party ; and who, having accepted the
command of the army, and taken an oath to sup
port the confiitution of a limited monarchy, thus ;
agreed upon at the aforefaid meeting, in which i
he bad aßcd a eonfpicuous part and to which j
the King himfelf had confentcd, was only, afling
iii conformity with those sacred obligations and
agreements, when he was driven off. This '
was the taufe of their complainti—this the true '
hi/lory of their j -11 ice towardi him—a hi/lory
which will not be denied by Mr. J'JJerfon
himftlf. * j
who were in its favour, I. -.<! -:r\i weak,
and ttot to be dreaded ; ah J . t'nt letter tfras
written,- -had been -feat jV.iv.r -'iately by the
person to whom it .was adj;-. arid pub
tiftied in London, far the purpsfq.pf spirit
ing tip the people of that country to make
a frefh attack upon us, I fiuaid consider
that Wafhiflgtofi infinitely more execrable
than the deteftabU- Arnold : for the treason
of that general only went to cbe surrender
of a fmallpart of our army, but the defefti
on contained in such a letter, be cal
culated to'invite to the conquest of all A
merica. AMERICANUS.
FOREIGN INTTE L I-fb E NOE ]
MANHEIM, June 26. '
A council of war was. held at Schweti
injen upon the Austrian genehtls in the af
fair of the fvieuwed. Gen. Kray defended
| himfelf better than Werneck. The result
1 has been sent into Vienna, and the mean
time the archduke Charles has suspended
both these generals, from their funftions.
Gen. Spork takes command of the Austri
an army on the Lower Inline.
ON THE MAINE, July 3.
' The" emperor's edift relative to Nurem
berg has been publi/hed, in which the king
of Prussia, as margrave of Anibach and
' Baireu'th, is ordered without delay to with-
I draw the Prussian troops from Nuremberg,
j and is forbidden to interfere in its govern
| ment. Two months are allowed to com
ply with their injunftions,
J»'y $.•
Day before yesterday the firfl vessel was
here from Strafhurg, and displayed its three
coloured flag upon the Maine.
KONINGSBERG, June 23.
By the treatj of commerce between
England and Russia, it is agreed, that if
the two powers (hould declare war, there
shall be no detention of perform, velfeh or
property ; but at fleall a year fliall be graut
sd-ta-difpofe effe<?U, or remove them.
This treaty is for eight y«ars, and was con
cluded'on the 2111. Feb. and ratified on
the 7th May following.
WESEL, July 6.
The French army of the Sambre and
; Meufe is flill in great force, and its lines
I are from Du field or f on the right bank of
| the Rhine, as far as Nidda. It is in four
i divisions, and includes 50,000 infantry,
and 10, coo cavalry, exclufirely of the ar
tillery.
MENTZ, July 8.
This day, Lemoine with his division of
' French troops, left Wetzlar, and marched
for Siegberg.
It is reported that archduke Charles it
to set out for Vienna.
It is said that the French have broken
up 289 religious houses in Belgium, which
received from 5 to 6000 perfims.
DARMSTAT, July 8.
Ihe Prussian minister Hardenburg has .
gone to Anfpaeh.
It is believed, that the disturbance at
Nuremberg by the Prussians, will not have
any serious confequencet, since the Prussian
major a£led without military inftru&ions.
The imperial officer of the new levies con
tinues at Nuremberg.
VfENNATjuIy 12.
The French gen. Gentili, whojias an
rived at the Venetian island 0* Corfu, has
iflued a proclamation in which he encou
rages the inhabitants to attempt a revolu
tion, and to establish a republic. He urges
them to remember the excellent republics
of Greece, which so many heroes and great
men have applauded. This proclamation
has bad great effeft, and it it thought, that
the whole Turkish government will fink,
and the spirit of revolution will pervad«
the Morea, Macedonia, and the who}*
Archipelago.
July 5. ,
Gen. Mack has returned from the army.
The court has since been deeply engaged
by his communications. The Marquis d»
Gallo, who was lately with Buonaparte at
IJdine, has conftaat communications with
the miijifter of state, Baron Thugut, by
his secretary, who is passing at all hours.
From fried, 5000 Austrian troops have
gone by wattfr into Venetian Dalmatia, for
supplies, with which that country abounds.
6000 French tro6ps also went from Venice.
The whole force of the house of Auttria,
in its own states, exchifive of the Hunga
rian cavalry, which is not in their 'pay, is
reckoned at 438,000 men.
j *,
HAMBURGH, buly 15.
At- Rome, in the printing-office of the
Propaganian Society, a rich variety of let
ters and chara&ers have been found, espe
cially of Greek and Oriental chara&ers.
These are all demanded for the use of the
French republic, and will render its collec- •
tion of types the most numerous and beau
tiful, as w*ll as most rich in its variety, of
any in all Europe.
London, June 17.
Some of the last letters received froat
Lisbon Hate, that all hopes of accommo
dation with the French have vanished for
the present—in confequenee of which the
mofl formidable military preparations ar<
every where making. Since the late arrival
oi the Engliili troops, from Porto Ferrajo
in i ufcany, the whole force is estimated at
40,000 men. The line ot Portuguese
troops accordingly extends from the Tagus,
to the river Guadiana, their right being
fnpported by the fortrefs of Elvas, their
left by that of Montalvao, and their centre
by the redoubts of Portallegra and Caftello.
On >he other hand, the Spanifhfcines ex
tend fiotn the Guadiana to the Tagus,
having Bagdajoy to their right, and Al
cantaro on their left, wfiere tberc- is a p.if.
sage over the by ,a bridge : ihtirr'rStre ;» A.[l AccAfOin,j to
tlie la; sit intelifgjnce 'from Madrid, t!<
varictd guard,frpu> the French forces drill
ed to ail against had «t
Barcelona and Alicant. ;The people in. ge
neral itill continue much imbjttered against
tiie Prince of Peace, as the author of a
war high'y prejudicial to their commercial
itrterpfts ; especially a 3., iince the blockade,
or Cadiz, the price of grain has risen so
high that a famine is dreaded.
jT " ly 5 '
Lord Milrntfjury has carried with him
tv Lisle a very plentiful supply or Louis
kl'Ors. Who Jcn'ov/s. but the novel fight of
111 i 3 alluring coin may have its good effeft
in oiling the fpring3 of the negotiation ?
By the over-land express from India,
■which arrived on Saturday, we have the
latisfaflion to hear that-every thing is quiet
at Bengal. The d"fficulty of procuring
rnonev, which had induced the government
to offer to borrow sums so small as 601. up
on bonds, and which sums had fallen to a
discount of 61. was now, in a great mea
lure, relieved, as all fears of a war with
Tippoo had fubfid<;d, and the bonds had
risen to a fraction of discount.
"■' r T ■■■ 'ymrrr
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, September 7.
From the Aieoiii.
Capt. 8001, of the (loop Charlotte, ar
rived at this port yellerday from Cape Fran
cois, has politely handed us Cape Francois
papers (Bulletin OJiiria/ de St. T)om'n?uc)
to the 16th of Augud inclusive, by which
we learn—
That the* French commillloners, at the
leeward, have put the molafTe«, produced
on the farmed plantations in the colony of
St. Domingo, in requisition £tr public ser
vice ; one quarter which is dqe the farmers,
will be paid them at the rate of five livres
th? velt ; the other three quarters will be
accounted for at the fame price, oeduding
what they owe for cattle, utenlils and rents.
This aft is spoken of as advantageous to ,
both parties.
That, it having been reported the British
were about attacking Monte-Chrifte, it was |
decreed by desire of the Spanish president,
that the French take polfeflion of it and
Lsxavon, garriTon them, and copftitute
them a French colony.
That, the 10th of August was pom
pously celebrated at the Cape.
Capt. 800 l informs that all nations treat
'Americans with equal contempt.
The English pretend to proteH us by
their convoys ; but it seems this is in the
outward pafTage, after their will of us is
satiated ; and even this protection is but a
fnnre, for the convoys generally leave the
velfels on cruising ground of the French
privateers.
The French treat us as bad as they can ;
they want VlO further proof than JiritiJh
prote&ion, let these veflels proceed from
what port they may. Condemned or not
the cargoes are taken for government, and'
bills of 60, 90, or 120 days given in pay
ment.
Capt. 800 l has also favoured us with the
following remarks 011 board the Charlotte :
From the Charlotte's I.og-B»nk.
The (loop Charlotte failed from Cape
Francois on the 20th of August, in com
pany with the brig Iphigenia, Thomson,
of New York, bound for Port-au-paix ;
brig Delaware, , hs>;nd to Phila
delphia, and brig Chance, Turner, for Bal
tirgore.
Left at the Cape, brig Hunter, Parker,
of New York ; fchr. Triton, Hilman, and
——, ditto, besides many oAer American
veflelsi
The brig Courier, of Philadelphia, with
her cargo, worth 32,000 dollars, bound to ,
a French port, is condemned at Gonaives, 1
on account that the owner was a French
emigrant—they not allowing the right of 1
naturalization to emigrants lince the revo- f
lution. ,
The Frenth -continue their depredations 1
on our commerce to a greater degree than
ever. They now fend in oil veflels bound ,
wherever they might be, for examination.
The (loop Charlotte was taken in the har
bour of Monte Ckrifte, and sent down to '
the Cape for trial; and bad it not been for
having some articles on board for an Amer
ican merchant at the Cape, and a number of {
letters for different people, besides many
friends who interceded in her behalf, (he
would certainly have been condemned.
The (hip Hope, Burr ; and fchr. J
Campbell, both of New ork, were at Port- j
au-paix—they were taken 011 'their way \
down from Monte Chrifte to the Cape, by I
a British frigate, their registers indorsed and
they ordered for the Mole. The captains :
broke their orders, and entered Port-au-
Paix.
Hie British (lop our veflels, indorse some f
«f their papers; convoy them as far as the 1
ea(t end of Tortuga, just in the track of I
tlie French privateers, and then leave them; I
by that means- the unfortunate Americans
fall a prey to tbem. Their papers being
indorsed by a British commander, is fafficient -
to condemn them, in a French port, altho' t
aftually boundto the port where theyreoeive
their sentence. j
On the 2d of September at 4 P. M. spoke
the brig Caroline, Ezekiel Robins, master,
from New York, bound to New Providence, I
all well. In lat. 36. 30Ion. 73, 30.
BOSTON, September 3.
Capt WoodbrMge, in a brig from Lisbon, e
has arrived at Marblehead, 45 days passage, ,
he dates, that Admiral Jervis had comminc- 1
cd the bombardment of Cadiz, ar.d the c
Spanish fleet lying in port, that he had [
potted his ships of war in such a situation, !
that they could throw (hells and red hot (hot 1
across the neck, among the fleet, and that
it wasexpefted he would eventuallydeltroy it.
Capt. W. also informs us that the mzr-
3 fce: for American pravjfians was very good)
- Fill), quick at 9 dollars.
t ; Capt. I-vqsi fom Amsterdam 56 dSvs, re
- ports, that the, Du.Vcli fleet ft ill i'tl the
I 1 extH—that they had been ordered to fail
a the 20th June, hut that .th* -orderi vrcri
i conntermanded :—that no mutiny had taken
? place on board the fleet, through theYesmfn
3 j loudly complained of the quality and quan
tity of their provilio». cloathing, &c. ind
that they were much difatislied" whh tfi:ir
1 new mailers. Admiral Duncan continued
< cruizing off the Texel.
f
BALTIMORE, September 5.
" And this Jhould teach us f
, " 7oat there't a Divinity that (hates our ends,
; " Hough-hew them how he will."
This morning, between 9 apd 10 o'clopk,
; the following melancholy plage,
which, it is hoped, will operate as a caution
- hereafter. As some men on board a
1 ner off Bowly's wharf, were firing a fwivdj
which had been loaded several days, it burfl?
mto a numb-r of pieces, one of which (4 '
inches long and 2 broad), (truck a negro
man, called Phil], (who has been "for many
years a measurer on the wharves) took the
upper part of his gullet, under-jaw and part
of his upper-jaw entirely away, and left
him a breathless and ghastly monument of;
the uncertainty of life. Several pieces flew |
against the veflels and ware-houses ; aVid it
was a lingular intervention of Providence,
that no other person, not even the'one who
'fired the gun nor those Handing round, re
ceived the lead injury. There were many
people walking near the place, and necefla
rily a number of narrow escapes.
FREDERICK-TOWN, August 50.
From the RrGHTS of Man.
Captain Toplift, arrived at Boston, in
52 days from Bourdeaux, ftatcs, as faft,
that the French government has iJued or.
ders for Mr. Adet to return again for Ameri
ca, to resume hia functions [That captain
, Toplift reports what he heard, may be true
j —that the Directory of France have chosen
another minister to reside in this country, lV
! probable—but that monsieur Adet is the
man, I John Winter, Printer of this little
paper, do not believe. —The President of
the United States will not receive him.
i Monsieur Adet hat been here once too
often.]
j A writer in the Boston Chronicle, dated
August 16, who signs himfelf' Tully,' ad
drefles a lengthy piece ' To John Adams,
Esq. President of the United States'—After
filling up a column of that paper with senti
ments bordering on abuse, he concludes his
address in the following lines :
E)* " But I will contend, and to my fel
low-citizens,it (hall be my duty hereafter to
demonstrate, th?.t the whole of your influ
ence, your abilities, such as they are,
(mark these four words reader) instead of
bring exerted to extenuate and remove* the
exiiting misfortunes and embarrassments of
our country, have been devoted to measures
whose tendency is to aggravate and increase
them."
Five different newspapers in the United
States havtflopped within the course of a few
weeks. The " dilatory conduct of a uura
ber of their distant customer», in not pay
ing up, punctually, their fnbfcription-mo
ney," the Editors observe, is a reason fuf
ficient to juftify them from proceeding anv
further.
These printers, " whose want of money j
prevented them from from proceeding any ]
further," were all Jacobins.
I forefee the end of many others. These
things are pleasing—as they are (triking j
prognollics of the dowifall of the Jacobin or :
French faftion.
M**. GKATI'AN
INFORMS her friends,and rkc public in general,
tjpt hex s ouse, No. 19*, Markn-ftrect, will con
tinue open during the fieknefs.
Board and Lodging in a separate room, ten
dollars, in a double room, f.ioht dollars.
For the convenience as th. fe gentleman who
have not their amilies in town. Mrs. Orattan
will receive gentlemen to dine at half a dollar '
a day. Atfuft 19. —6t <
Red Port Wine.
Just arrived, by the
Oporto,
Red Port Wine in pipes,lxhds. aud quarter ca4k? <
6c cwt. Cork, for sale by j
Philips, Cramond, & Co. i
J"'y S_ f
Imported in the latest arrivals from
Amsterdam and Hamburg, [and forfale bv
B. ® J. Bohlen,
A large ajfortment of ftne Ffetich Cambrics, j
Platillas KulfiamdDutch lailcluth
B'ittannias Writing, post, and print- '
Kouanes . inir paper 1
Brown Holland Du ch calf lkir>« l
Checks and firipes Prime madder
Ticklenburgs Sheil'd Barley
Ojtnahurgß Looking glalTes t
White sheetings Hnllow glali ware t
Biaper Slates ,
Brown rolls - Coffee mills
Umbrellas Brass kettles 1
Hair ribbons Scythes and straw knives r
Black and whitelaces Tovs aflorted in boxe« c
Bell Holland Gin in pipes a
London particular Madeira Wine
July 24- m&thtf
-
At a Meeting of the Board of f
Property, June 6, 1797, v
Prcfent John Hall, Sec'ry.
Francis Johnfton, U.G. S-oflandoffice '
Dan. Biodhead, S. G-j f
Nicholas Bettinger, ") c
vrjus > I
Samuel CKiinirgharp-)
In this cafe the proof of service of notice be- j
ing infufficientj It isordered that notice be >;iv- '
en in one of the Philadelphia and York newfpa- 1
per» weekly, for at least eight weeks to the (
heirs or anignees of Sranuel Cunningham de- 1
ceajcd, to r.tttefid the board on thefirft Monday e
next, to Ihew caul'e why a patent (
iliould nit i(Tue to Nicholas Bettinger for the
land in queition. x - ,
(A true Copy.)
JOHN HALL, 1
Secretary qf thcJLand Office. * '
15. *iawßw.
A«s 15
Xj}c ©alette."
l PHILADELPHIA,
j j
i ' ClYr HOSPITAL REPORT,!
i From 7th to !Uh oepttmber, liitWr Morning,
1 Admitted, fu;ce last report, 1
■ Wm. Collins, Myers Taylor's, ft,
1 IfaacHofTifian, Wm. Perkins, Penn ftrpe't.
Sufaiina Monks, Win. Stanley's, Taylor,
[ corner Market and Water fttreets. j
Abner Cartwrigltf, Middle's alley, witer
| below 'AlmohJ street.
; Margaret M'CLfivy, capt. Keith's, Pafiyi
■ unk road. '
, Sarah Black, Fuller's alley, between Front
and Second Street.
, Cuff Jordan, Chefnut street,' near Georre
, j ILimfons.
1 Discharged since la ft report.
■ Moses Steward, admitted 6th inft.
I Eloped.
I Daniel Sifco, admitted eth inft. from the
\ Prison.
1 ' Died since last report.
Henry Hamilton, admitted 3d inft.
Mary M'Farland, do, 6th do.
Adam Gaflinger. do. 6th do.
1 Wm. Collins, do. 7th do. »
! Regaining last Report 04.
Admitted, 7
Difchargcd 1
Eloped j .
Died 4 6
Remain in Hbfpftal, (£onvalefcents 6 ]
(_ Sick 29 j 33
Interred in C ty Hospital burying aground
since last report :
From the city and suburbs 5
From the city hospital 4
Tbtal 9
StephenGirard,
(Signed) Caleb Lownes,
JOHNjCoNNELLy.
Buria's for 24 hours endingyejlerday at noon.
Christ Church 1 Child
St. Mary's Church I
Swedes I
Potter's Field 1 Adult
City Hospital* 7
Kensington 1 1
Total 9 4
* Three of tbefe were from the city,
f From Camptown. /
Died, yesterday morning, Mr. Joseph
Read, merchant.
Allen.
Bowen, cabinet-maker; and Mr. Valen
tine Pe kin, both of Spruce-street.
The fpllowing is copied from an Afi'atic
print of the year 1795.
" Ihe abolition of Negro fiavery, which
has taken place in the five New England
State? of New Hamplhire, Marfachufetts,
Rhode Island, Connecticut, and Vermont,
in the Midland States cf New York, New
Jersey, Pennfylva'nia, and Delaware, and in
the Western State of Kentucky, for several
years past, is now extended by aft of Cod
' rrefs to the five Southern States of Virginia,
\jrth Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia,
i and Maryland ; and the emancipation of the
remainder of that unfortunate race of men
is to take place on or before the ift of No
vember, 179 r.
" The Legislature of TheStste of MafTa
chufetts has granted a part of the publie
Lads to the emancipated Negroes of that
State, in proportion to the number of the
refpe&iTe families, where, fays the writer
who communicates the intelligence, the li
beral and philanthropic mind is gratified, by
feeing them ercdV villages, cultivate farms,
and form communities of civilised societies.
Before the person who gives this intelligence
left America, they have established a lodge
of Mafmiry ; and he had the fatisfaftion of
ieeing them, oa a grand day, j»;rade to
church in all the of the order,
where a- sermon was preached on the occasi
on by one of their «wn colour. They have
also endowed public fc'nools, employed
teachers, and ere&ed places of public wor-
Ihip." * t j]Bombay Cour.~\
America has mqneftionably taken the
lead of all nations, in the sublime career of
humanity :—and the fame of her public and
private labors in the glorious pursuit of
ameliorating the condition of the oppressed
Africans, will (tho' the above statement
be somewhat exaggerated) extend to the
1110 ft distant quarter of the civilized world."
The following extraordinary account of
the very great power of diftention in the
Snake may be depended on as a faft. A
Snake of about fifteen feet long wag caught
by the Molungeesin an Aurung, four or five
miles distant from Contai, and having been
disabled by than, was dragged along with
a rope fattened nbont his neck.—The Paunch
appeared "very much swelled, and upoa ex
amining it with a flick, all the parts of sortie
four footed animal were diftin&ly felt, which
was fuppofedto be a wild pig; but on rip
ping up the Snake, it Was fuuhd that he
had contrived to swallow a whale full grown
spotted Deer, aiyl that without breaking
or crushing any of its bones: the Deer mea
sured round the body two feet ten and a
half inches, and as he was by VlO means of
fenfive, must have been recently swallowed.
After the Deer was taken obt of his body
the Snake measured no more, round in the
largest part of his bodythan feventceninches, ;
and his. mouth only to appearance, four in
ches wide: wheiriie was brought in, he dis
covered only faint signs of life, however no
fponer was lie relieved of his load, than her i
revived, ere:Ud his head, and attempted to
make oT with' confiderabie agility.
Calcutta Gat.
Frm the Timepiece.
" Several French privateers are said to be
now on the American coast, arid off the
Hook, cruizing for Britilh property. In
some inftance3, it is said, their conduiS has
verged on the piratical. In this country,
from a philosophical review of things, there
r. is a preddeftion in favor of France ari/3
Frenchmen. It is hoped the republic will,
' • if war-is to continue, check the career ps
t. naval wfolence, asfara3 file is concerned. No
r, government can answer for the »£ts of indi
j viduals ; but by. punifh'ing such as are known
1- to infringe the rights of neutral nations,
( (lie will set an example for future ad-ventur
■- ers, and preserve the respect and good will
of the United States."
ll The above is another cur'infity furnifhed
by Sinbat, the nautical poetaster. But as
e he has here attempted to impose on the pub
lic a belief of What he knew to be unfound-'
ed, it is not like many others ps his fabrica
tions a harmless absurdity. The plunder
ing Frenchmen who infeft pur coast, are as
e well knpwn by him tp be cruizing for Ame
rican property, as they are by me to be an
infernai host of highway robbers ; whose
conduft, instead ps the mild," salving ex
pteffion " verging pn the piratical," which
beepmes pnly the month ps a French hire
ling, merits the appellatipn and the punish
ment ps downright piracy.
4- | Many reflexions occur on the above fpe
-7 • '(cimen of Jacobin infplence ; but further to
comment would be to waste time on rcfiftlefs
1 imbecillity.
FRENCH MURDER.
J In the beirinnirg of the year 1690, a h«dy of
_ French tad In.lia-:s, fcst out by the Count de Fronr
tcnar., and '" il on by Monfienr de Kerville, stir-
J prised the of Scbcjictftady. then-on the fron
titrs of New-York, s r4 all the l;:tial>i
f ta-lts. urlrfs av ry fe-.v that efc.ped naked to the
ood» rhe,ev(*r faithful Mohav, r ks, as foQn as
they received the ne-.vs of this b.irbartnis er-tef
ptize, tVnt'out 2 hundred of theirbrifceft young
men, purs the French, fell upon tbeir
rear, killed great many of t' em, and took feve
rsl prisoners. In the mean time, the old nen, or
, Suchems hailejied to All.a iy, 10 console wjil) the
the EnglHh on this me'ancho'v occasion. Part of
their fpyecb wa< as follows.
Brethren,
" We came frpm pur wigwams with
tears in pur eyes, tp bemoan the bloodshed
at ScheneSady. The French, on this ocea
fion, have not a&ed like brave men, but
like thieres and robbers. What they have
done cannot be galled a viftory, but only a
farther proof that perfidy is in their hearts.
Be npt therefpre difepuraged. We give
you this belt to wipe away your tears.—"
Brethren,
/ " While we buVy your dead, basely mur
dered in cpld blppd at ScheneSctdy, we know
not what may have befallen our own people,
who are gypne in pursuit ps the enemy : the
fame thing that has happened tp ypu may
perhaps have happened to us; and alas!
they may be dead alfp !"
"• Great-and sudden is the mifchief that
has fallen uppn ypu, as if it had fallen from
heaven upon ourselves. Qnr forefathers
taught us to go-with all ffeed, to lament
with our brethren, when any disaster or
I misfortune happens to those who are leagued
in the fame chain with us. Take this till
of vigilance, brethren, from us, that you
' may be more on your guard for the future.
We also give you Eye-water, that you may
I be more ftarp-fighted."
" We are now cpme to the house where
we were wont to renew the covenant-chain;
but, alas ! we find it polluted—polluted
with blood. All the five have heard
of the horrid deed, and we come to wipe a
vvay the blood, and make clean the heufev
So long as a man of us remains, we wilHiot
desist till we have crunk deep of revenge.—
We are of the race of the bear ; and a bear,
you know, never yields while one drop -of
blppd is kfft."
" Take heart, then, brethren. This is
an iffli£lidn which has fallen from heaven,
and we ttiuft bear it in commpn. The fun
has been cloudy, and, with malign afpeft,
has shed this difaTter uppn pur heads ; but
he will again shine fprth with pleasing beams.
—Cpurage, then, left we give heart to a
dastardly enemy: courage,brethren,courage!
coutage!
■
PRICES OF STO CKS,
Philadelphia, Bth Sept. I 797.
6 per Cent. 16/8
: per C«nt. 10/4
Deferred 6 per Cent. 11/4
BANK United State», I* per ct. advancs.
North America, 46 do.
Insurance Ge. N. A {hares 45 to 50
Pennfvlvania, par
COURSK OF hXCHANGK.
On I.ondofi, at 30 d;iys jiar
at 60 days 65
at 90 days 6 i
Amftcrdam, per guilder 40
GAZET7 E Marine' list.
Boston, Auguftji.
Arrived this day, brig Patty, Ivia, Am
sterdam, 56 days. Left there ship John,
M'Neal of Philadelphia, to fail in 3 weeks;
brig Mary, Whitman, of Newburyport,
for Bolton ; fiiip Columbia, Lolar, for Phi
ladelphia. In lat. 49, was boarded by a
French privateer, and after examination
fuffered to proceed without damage ; the
lieutenant of the privateer was an Anaerican,
by the natne of Hammond, and belonged to
Philadelphia. I Engliih Channel pal
fed through a part of the Jamaica fleet, and
was informed they had loft 5 or 6 ps their
velTels, having been taken by French pri
vateers.
September 1.
Arrived this day, .ship Mac, Prebble,
Havannah, 22 days. Left there, captain
; Hammond, ps Bpftpn ; (hip Circumnaviga
tor, Leering, of do. and fiiip John, Jen
nings, ps Philadelphia, with several pther
American veftcls, names forgotten. Spoke
! no veflels but what have arrived.—Markets
dull.
Brig Neptune, Dogget, Jamaica, 39
day., "
Schr. Commerce Goocldiall, Tobago >
tailed from St. 1 Kiu's, with the fleet, the
particulars of which we have already publilh*
ed. Pork, Jo dollars, Beef, 25 dollars.
September 2,
-Arrived this day, (hip Sea Horse, Gird
ler Bourdeaux, 43 d .ys, via Cape Ann.
bailed lome days previous to capt. Stetson,
wno arrived here a few clrys ago.
Sch,. litiiry, Shawi Nev.'-Providenccj
16 days.
Brig Hannph and Mary, Hill, EfTequi.
bo, 31 cj-ys. Left there brigs Polly, Smithy
and at Efieqjiibo, fchr. John~ Lincoln, both
of this port. Was boarded by several Eng
lifti privateers, and treated politely. There
remained at Kemerara near 30 fail of Ame
rican veurls ; anchoring there but one
capt. Hill could only obtain the name of the
above. Proviiioni very scarce ; Beef, front
80 to ico guilders per barrel, and fi(h 14.
dollars per quintal.
September 3.
V Arrived this day, brig May Flowed
Proctor, 50 days from Lisbon. Left there,
capt. Drummond, with spars to fail with
the fleet for England, not having met a good
market for his timber. Spoke, 29th Au
gust the French privateer, lately in Marble
head, who, after examining the papers of
the May Flower andtaking a fcpx-of lemons,
difmiOed her.
Captain Matthews, arrived on Saturday
, om Baltimore, spoke a few days fincc
t.je brig Aurora, Gould, from Nevis, for'
Kennebunk, no dap on LoarcC
tbe crew of the brig Ranger, Hewes, of
x\ewbuiyport, which had been captured by
the Frencji, the crew put on board a
vefiel belonging to Virginia, -captured and
made a cartel 01. Besides this crew,
were onboard ihe cartel, the crews of the
brigSuccefs, Rogers, of New-York, from
St- Kitt's, Hoop Depcndance, of Richmond
Montague, from Antigua ; brig Peace,
Allen, of New-York, from Martinique, all
captured and carried into Porto-Rico, for
condemnation.
Bank of North America,
StpteifiUr.%th, 179.7.
Mondav next tho. No ices for al Not-a-or
Biljs payable at this Bank, whic') fall due f- r
the ejifuiugfi-vn days, will be served on the Pav
ers: And the like Notices on eveiy Mjriidiy, till
•the further orders of the Diredo<»—Pcfons wi «
ing to dep'-fit Nates or Bills for Colleflioo, which
are to /ill Jue within the week, muli ihemfelves
undertake to (rive not'ef to the Payer* dtf
Post Office, September 1797.
C/" The Pod Office will be removed to*
morrow at 3 o'clock, P. M. to Mr. Di n
lap's Coach house, 12th ftreet,between Mar
ket and Chefnut street, where merchants and
others will pltafe to fend for their letters, z*
the letter carriers during the continuance o£
she present prevailing sickness will nbt be
sent out.
The Health-Office ~
18 removed to the City-Hall, and is kept opea
night and day, where persons having bufin -fs may
apply. Wm. ALLEN, Health-Officdr.
Sept. 4. ' d ,f
N uric L.
THF. Offices of the Depsrtrrent of War are for
the pn-fent rcnoTad near to the falls of tua ScuvL
kill, on the Ridg® Rc?.d.
September 4. v <3^
Excellent Bourdeaux Brandy
Ditto ditt 1 Claret in cases
Just received, and for Sale "By
Rundle & Leech.
21 • 2awtf
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, and
CONSUMPTIONS.
Just by Wm, Griffiths, No. l?7,Soutli
, Second-street, s frefh supply of
Genuine Bal/am of .Honey,
\ Medi-ine invented by the late Si? John Hill
~ 1- (wiio knowledge as a Botanist procured him
the appellation of the Linnanjs of Britain) and is
•orfidered in as a certain cure for the abovs
complaints; it i; also of lingular efficaey in th«
HoAping'Coiijrh,
It may also he had retail of W. A. Stoses.No.
61, Sauth Second street;, and T. Stitt, £5, New
ftreet, in bottles at 75 cents each'.
VV.m. ClKirriTHs hiving observed the happy efr
fetSt of the wodicrnc, ffcveral cases of cures hav
ing come within his own knowledge) and tile great
demand for it has induced ■ h<Bi tv order a
iTigp y, a part of which he has jail received. *
3; ta*'jvf
The Partnership,
UNDER tbe firm of FREEMAN 'J Company,
i» diflolycd by mutual confsat. All peifons
raving any demands again & the said House are de
lircd t > render tke si ne to T. 3. Freeman j and '
thofc indeb'ed to the House we deLired to make pav
ment-<o him—By whpm hufinefs will in future bo
carried on,at his Store, No. 39, South Front-ftreefc
Augiijl 7. eod4w
Insurance Companyof iSortb America.
TIS2T' toc^t h o ld'ers in this company are here
in* informed, that, purftiant to the fifth
their Charter, and at the rtniieft of a
•' Number of Stockhohjers, who, together, are
proprietors of Si*- Thousand Shares, and up
ivares," a meeting of (he Stockholder*
will he held at the Company's Office, on Mon
day the 15th slay of September next, at ir
■o'clock, A. M. for the purpose of filling: up 3,
vacancy in their Direction ; and taking into
consideration such Regulations or Bye La-vs as
may bepreftnted in conformity with the Chsr-*-
ter of Incorporation.
EBEN. HAZARD, Sec* n .
July 20. w&ftSsj
Just published,
And to he fold at the Bcokltorei of H. P.
Rice, No. 50, Market-street j J. Ormrod,
No. 41, Chefnut street, and W. Young,
corner of Chefnut and Second-streets,
An accurate Syflem of Surveying}
m WHICH IS CONTAINED,
1. Decimal fractions, in a plain, concise,
and tai'y manner.
2. The extraction of the fquareroot.
3. Plain trigonometry, redlangular and oh*
lique.
4. An exa& method to cist up the contenW
of lands.
5. Field surveying.
The whole being performed without the' us*
of fcaie and eompalfes, on a table of logarithms.
In-which is given some account of the variation
of the needle, and the causes of its attradliotk
By SAMUEL MOORE.
August 1, 1 sawaw•TT/L DOLLARS SEWARD-.
AN nwsy Irom the fubferiber, an indented
j S v rv,uit Girl, named Nancy a
lmnt 'iwer.ty years of age, (hort, thick fetperfon,
ihort black hair ; had on when Ihe went away,
a dirk calico gown, an old black silk cloak, and a
l)l*c'c fur hat. Wkocv r will secure laid girl, and
prve ir.iormation thereof to tbe fubferiber, No. a,
Greer.!e''f alley, or t» the office of this Gazette,
Hull Tsccivt the above reward.
All tv ""lons are fwrbid harbcring fiid girl, as
tlicy will be dealt with as the la* diredls
MARY ANDERSON,
N. C. Said Girl is from Ireland, and has been if
tfus country but a ftiert time ; she wasfent to tha
wcrk-hoiife for mifcondu«sl, where She Was taken
sick and removed to tha city-hospital, from,which
place llse made her escape.
- con ■
i'o be fold at Public Vendue,
To the highest bidder, at the house cf Mr.
Williahn Evans, the lign of the Indian
Qi'een, in the city of Baltimore, on the 25th
of O&ober next, at 11 o'clock, M
About seven thousand acres of land,
the property of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
ljong between Heifter'»-town and Wel.ir.infter,
.commonly called Little Winchester, (the turn
pike road runs through a confidcrable part of
tliefe lands) the trafl begins about 17 miles
from Raltijnore, within a few hfindred yards
of 'aid iieilter's-town, and extendi to the dis
tance of about miles from Balti
more, and l'e- on the main falls of Patapfico
rivtr, from three to four miles thereon. Will 1
be fold in trifls of one hundred and fifty to
three hundred a;re. There is a large propor
tion of meadow and wood land on each trail,
l'oriie of them highly improved, with excellent
buildings and fine grsfa.
At so
A of seven hundred acres of
1 mil, called Clover Farms, within five miles of
Bladenlhurg, eftterried very good for Grass.
Richard Ponfonby.af Blade»lbu»|!i, will ihew j
this land to any person inclined to purchase. I
* ALfQ,
A tracl of land e>f aboift three hun- j
dred and thirty acres, within about two miles
and a half o the President's house in the Pede
ril City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fine
high profpefl, which may be fcen tbe
ciry of \Valhingtcn, Bladenfburgh, Alexandria
and a part of George-town, and many miles
down (he Potomac river. Mr- Richard Por.foti
by, of Bladenlburg, will also shew this land.
A liberal credit u ill be given for t|ie greattft
part of the pprchafe money. .he terms will
be made known on the day of tie.
Ma\> g
Just Keccivcd,
From Bata\ia(vi»ProTi«'enn)
a few Boxrsof Spices, eonfilling of
Nutmegs, Clovtsand Mace
For falc by
KILLINGS & FRANCIS,
Penn. ftrcct.
nay 30 irf
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 319, Iftgh-Strett.
GEORGE DAVIS,
BEING buCed for some time past in prepara
tions for removing intu his profent house, has
been under tfn.ueeel!ity of poftp ning until this dajr
informirgthsgentlcmen ofthe Bar generally thro'
the Ud'tcd States, that his spring importation of
law ij now arranged and ready for lale, on
terms thut lie trulls will tntitlehim to the like pre
sence he has experienced for levcral years part.
Catalogues, combining die moll varied collec
tion ever imported i/ito this couutry, arc printwi
and will be delivered on application.
June 27. 2aw 6w
City Commijffioners' Office,
7ft a*, 1797-
IN pursuance of an ordinance from the felefl
and comnlon councils, pafied the 2td day of
May lafl, appointing the city corrimiffioners,
and prescribing their duties, fe<!lion 9th,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
Tbat the city is divided into five diltriifls,
each to be under iht l'nperintendince of one of
the city comroiffinr.ers, whois to be individually
relponlifle for the cleanliocfs of the fame, and
are as follow.
DriftriA No. I. From the south fide of Ce
dar-ftr«et, to the north Gde of Spruce-llreet, un
derthe superintendence of Nathan Boys.
2. From tbe north fide of Spruce-street, to
the north fide of Walnut-Areet, under thefuper
intendence of Hugh Roberts.
3. From tl>e north fidecf Wslnut totkefouth
fide r.f Higli-llreet, under the superintendence ot
Joseph Claypoole.
4. From the north fide of High-Preet, to the
north fidr of Mulberry street, under the fuper
inteudence cf William Moulder.
5. From the north fide of Mulberry-street to
the north fide of Vine-flreet, under the super
intendence <rf Nicholas Hicks.
The cleaningof High-street to be in common.
A stated meeting of tht city commi[fion
era is hel l at the Old Court House, in High
ftreet, eveiy Tuesday evening at 5 o'< lock.
July 14. toim
Stands for Draymen, £sV.
In p::rfnance of an Ordinance fiom the deleft and
Common Councils,bearing date tbe 22d day of
ylpril, 1797, providing far the appointme.it of
City Co nmiJJioners, £3c. Sell, the ljth.
r T"'HE following places are fixed upon by the
i said City Comiaiffioners for Stands syr
Draymen and their Horses.
In Vine-flreet, eastward of Front-ftred, «n
both fides.
SajTafras, High,Chefnut and Walnut-fttreets,
eallward of Front-flreet, on the no.-th fide only.
Mulberry-street, soUth fide frem Front to
Third-street.
Front-ftrest, east fide from Vine-street to
Elrrith's alley.
Front-street, frem opposite to Black Horse al
ley to Hamilton's store«, east fide.
HValer-ftreet, weft fide from the north end cf
Stamper's or Moore's stores to Pine-flreet.
Penn-ftrect from Pine to Ce-Jar-flveet, weft
fide. '
Drawbridge, north fide, east of Front-street.
Spruce, Pine and South flreets, tall of Frost
street, south
Dock-!!reet, between Walnut-street and the
P.ag stone croflings, east fide, opposite George
Orkliy's.
between Safiafras and Vine
flretts, weft fide.
Fifth-flreet, east fide from Clicfnut to Mul
berry streets.
Safi'afras-ftreet, from Third to Fourth-street,
east fide.
No dray or horse to stand within ten feet of
any pump.
j-TWWJS FOR HACKNEY COACHES.
Pine-street, north fide from Fourth to Fifth
fircct;.
Fifth-ftreet, between Chefr.ut and Walnut
streets, well.
Branch- iireet, north fide, betwacn Third and
Fourth ftr/ets.
July J4. mw&fim
A Literary Tfcat.
JtiJl bulllfhtd, hantjohii'ly printed on ivr'uing
paper, price r dollar,
A Rfiw edition of that popular and eirertoifliiig
work, entitled
r J T HE FORESTER £, an American Tine ; being
i. a sequel to the hi it or yof John Bull, Che Clo
thier—ln mferies of letters to a friend, with the ad
dition of two letters, alluding to recent political
rraufa&ious in America.
The following- extra# from the Clavi>» All<?g6rica,
(hew 9 the principal chara&ers that are introduced:
John Bull, the Kingdom of England
His Mother, the Cftircty of kngland
II is Wife, the Parliament
His Siller Pjg, tbsC hutch of Scotland
Hi* Brother Patrfs?. Ireland
Lewis, the K'ngdom of France
liis Mistress, the Old ConfUtution
His new Wife, the Nati®nal Representation
Lord Strut, the Kingdom of Spain
Nicholas Frog, the Dutch Republic
The Franks, the French Republic
The Foresters, the United States of America
Robert Lumber, >icw-Haaip(fcirc
John Codline* Maflachufetts
Humphrey PloWshare, Conneilicut
Roger Carrier, Rhode I(land
Peter Bull Pro£, New-York^
Julius Cafar, New-Jersey
William Broadbrim, Pewnfylvania
Caflimar, t)e! aware
Walter Pipeweod, Virginia
His Grandson, ©eorge Washington
Peter Pitch, North Carolina
Charles Indigo, Soutk Carolina
George Trusty, Georgia
Ethan Greenwood, Vermont
Hunter Longknile, Kentucky
Black Cattle, Negro Slavas
Rats, Speculators
Mother Carey"!»Chickens, Jacobins
jfj" This popular and entertaining fatiricalhifto
ry cf America is attributed to the Ret. Dr. Bel-
I knap. It hasa great (hare of originality and a
( bownds with genuine humour. It is continued
i down to the present time, and charaAtriit* those
I late political tranfa&ions which have canSed so
I mil eh u*reafinefs in America.
Sold 1»y H. and P. RICE, Bookfelier, No. 16,
| South Second Street, and No. 50, Marke* ftieet.
I Junea6. §
LAW BOOKS"
Latest London and Dublin Editions.
H. & P. RICE, Booksellers,
No. IS, South Second, and No. 50, Market street,
HAVF. jufl received by the late arrivals from
London and Dublin, theii spring importa
tion, contiilingof a variety of the Isttft and most
approved Law Books, which,addtd to thal'e alrea
dy 011 hand, formi the mod eitenfirc colledion ev
er offered for fa!e in this country. v They theiefore
beg leave to notio:, that from the nature of their
conuc<sirnsin Dublin, they are enaMud to felllriih
editions (as they have hitherto done) at the very
lowed pricts. The following are am»ng the lauft
publications.
Vefey, jnn'rs Reports in Chancery, 2 v-lj.
Peake's Cases at Nisi Frius ; Ridgeway's Keyort»
in th« time of Lord Hardwi«k« ; t"l»yer's Pro&ers
Pradite in the Eccleflaftical Courts; Barton's
Treatif* on a Suit in Equity; Tidd's PraiSice of
the Court of King's Bench in Personal A&ions, 2
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
on Uses ; modern Reports, Xt vol-. London edi
tion,
H. and P. Riei eiptsS t» recsive by the firfl ar->
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
Dvmford and East's Repsvts, the 2d part of ttil
bert's I.a* of Evid«n«c by Loft, and* number of
new publications.
June 26.
The History of Pennsylvania,
By ROBERT PROUD,
19 now in the prtfs, and will be published,
wirh all convenient expedition, by Zicha
kiah Poulson, jun. No. So, Chefnut-ltreet,
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed propiifals, until the
: work is ready for the fubferiber*.
July j t. nwtf
Printed Calicoes.
JOHNMiIIER, Jun. & So.
No. S CheCnut-Street,
Have for Bale
FIFTY TRUNKS Really affbrted, very low on
(hort credit.
March 6. §
Richard and James Potter
HAVE removed thtir Counting Houie to No.
45, South Fifth-ftrcet.
August 2. w&f6t
LancaQer, Harrijfairgb Carljle,
Shippenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
public are reqnsfted to take notice, tliat
the partnership which has far some time fub
fliled betweaa Mathias SUugh of Laiisailff, and
William Oeer, is now diflolved : but, not as M.
Slough infiouatesto the public without jufl cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter 011 the fub
jeift from M. Slough to W. Ge?r, dated the 29th
December lall. a recital of which is not now deem
ed ncceiTary. Any gentleman who willies to be
more circumllantially informed of the merits of
- this business, by applying to W. Ceer may have
. the perusal of M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not XV.
Geer is not perfeflly juftifiabie in attaching him
felf to any other pcrfon in the profeeution- of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or place.
Now from tb« liberal and generous support the
public were pleased to confer on the firft effort in
this William Geer, in conjunction with-
Melfrs? Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
toprofecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention and dilpatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can possibly exert.
The above company, who a:e amply provided
with carriages, horses, and evtry appurtenance to
render the pa(fr,ge fcife and commodious, inform
thofs wno wilh to -patronise and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats nt
George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
j Market Street, Philadelphia, on every MonSy
i and Friday, to proceed to Lancsifler, Harrifburg,
i Carliile and Shippeufburg. The fare as hitherto
established.
l'or she further accommodation of the public,
a Stage will start every Wednesday from the house
of Samuel Elder, in Harrifb arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thurlday,
and return from thcoce and arrive at Harrifburg
every Saturday, so tkat passengers deltined for
Lancafteror Philadelphia, may proceed ua Mon-
WILLIAM GEER.
LancaHcr. Jan. 27, 1797.
N. 15. flfis Line of Stages Harts from ths
house of Wiliiam Ferr»c, in Lancallcr, on every
Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clotk, pro
ceeding to the westward; and the house of
-Mr. Samuel Sld;r in Harrifburg every Wednes
day n-.ornrng, 011 the fame evening at Pa
trick Cochran's in- Shippenfburg, and returns
from thence on every Thurlday: performing the j
ifa.-r.e routirn? daily as in .iy Wur Ircm I'hiladel- !
pliia. » m " j
City of VVafliington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Ferftrdl City.
A rnzgnif.cent.ivclling-haufc 20,00' c dollars,
& caih 30,000, are jo,op<>
i ditto 35,000 & ca& 25,000 4u,oo«i>
1 ditto ij,ooo & caih ij.ooo 30,000
1 ditto, ;o,oob & cafb :o>ooo 30,000
1 ilitto 5, 000 & cash 5,000 jo,ooo
1 ditto J, 000 & calk 5,000 io,i>oo
1 ci!h prize of 10,000,
1 do. 5,000 ei«h,ai:p » io t r>uo
10 do. r,ooo - - IC.'.OOC
32) do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. 100 - jo,ooo
l.io do. to - - xo.ooo
400 do. 35 - - io,o )o
1,000 do. 30 - 30,0011
ij,co'o do. 10 * Jj'ujooo
*6,739 Prizes.
Ji»46i fVlaaks.
jQjoao Tickets, z'. Eight ®-ol!>r», 400,060
N. B. Tofavour those who max take acuan
tity of Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the ust driven ticket, and the 30,000 th« last
but one :
And approved notes, feruring payment in either
mocsy or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
he received for any number not lefsthan 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an e'.ejrrat fpeemten of
the private buildings to be ertiied in the City »f
V/a&iington—Two beautiful defies are already
iele&ed for the on two of the public
squares j from these drawing it ispropofed toerefl
two csntreand r our corner 1 Hildiflgs,iu> soon aspof
fible after this lottery it fold, and to renvey thtra,
whm complete, to the fortunate adventursri, in
the manner described in the scheme far the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduction of five per cer.t. will
be made to defray the necessary expenses of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the si-cd intended for the National University. to
be creeled within the city of Vafoingtou.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the
Briies, are held by the Prefiden and two DireA
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more that, half the amount ot the lottery.
SAMVSL BLODGET.
,§, Tickets may be fa*d at the Bank of Coltm
hia ; of Jaraei W eft A Co. Baltimore; of Peter
Oilman, Bodori • of Joho Hppkios, Richmond ;
and of Kiaberd Walls, Cooper's Ferry.
From tie Olftgo fferalJ.
CAUTION.
WHCREA.S a combination of men in tiife
cov.nty hive undertakeu to enrich them- '
ftlves,by ftbrieatisg titles to sundry valuable trails
of land, the property of gentlemen living in New 1
York, Philadelphia, and Paris, for which '
tra<sLs of It nd large sums of money have been paid
to those fraudulent nun, by innocent purchafcrs ■
It is therefore just that public information Ihotild
be given, to the end, that the injured may feekre
drefs while the fnen have property, and are to be
found. Those who hive been diicovered areTru-'
man Harrifon, Joseph Witeomb, fuid now to re-
Cde in the county of Saratoga ; Thomas Kelly and
several otbcri who go under fiiSlitious names. It is
supposed that the lands offered fcr sale on those fa
bricated titles, are at least worth fifty thousand
dollars. Such as we have aflual knowledge of are
as follows : Lots No. JI and 13, Otfego pMent,
thousand acres each, the aftual property of William
now of London ; lots No. 58 and 64.
fame patent, thousand acres each, the property of
Mr. Chanmoat, now of Paris, and James Averill
and others, oi u* State. There is some grounds
to suppose that the lands of Richard Wells and
Charles Whartpn, of Philadelphia, are under their
management.—* The Printers will do well to give
this a place in their papers, as well to camion the
public against purchasing those lands, as also to de
prive these men in future from impoGng on indivi
duafs, which their education and addrels have en
abled them to da heretofore. Witeomb hat been
a (hopkeeper of some note in this country.
The following affi<}avits will fct in a clear point
of view the wickedneft of those men, which when
the public have perilled, will induce them to ex
tnfe the interference us Wm. COOPER.
Otfego, July 28th, 1797.
1 Thomas Kelly, of the County of Otfejo, hav
ing been led into an error, by John Witeomb and
Truman Harrifon, of the fame County, to sign a
deed to them, for iot No. 58, Otfego patent, which
was the properly of William T. Franklin now Mr.
Chauiont's and
and Truman did persuade nu. to do this against my
inclination, whieh was made out on the :cth day
of November, 1793, or fct back two ) cars so as
to bring it to that time ; and further the name of
Pardon Starlns to that deed was a fictitious namo,
there being no such perlon there. To this I make
voluntary oath. THOMAS KELLY.
19th July, 1797.
On the 19th July, 1797, came personally before
me, Thomas Kelly, the fubferiber to the above af
fidavit, and ynade folcmn oath that it contains noth
ing but the truth.
FLIHU kHIWNF.Y, Justice of the Peace.
On the lßthju!y, 1797, oame before me Jacob
Kibby, a perfonby me well known and worthy of
good credit, who on his solemn. osth did fay, that
two of the parties abovementioned did nuke ap
plication to him this deponent, forac time in the
winter of 1796, to make thein a deed for two thoa
fand acres of land in the Otegn patent, and pro
mised this deponent a lhare of the profits, on the
sale of *aid lands, for his so doing; andlh.it they
made'application several times for the fame purpo e,
whieh fervicas this deponent as often refufed, de
claring to them that he had no right to lauds, and
could do no such thing ; which daring attempt on
this deponent's integrity he had related anong his
friends several times, previous to making this affi-.
davit. JA(?OB KIBBEY.
Sworn before me,
ELIHU FHINNEY, Justice of the Peace.
Aug. 3. iaw4W.
Thirty Dollars Reward.
ELOPED from the service of the fpbfcriber,
1 on the 19th inllant, a negro man by the
nameof DICK, ab-jut twenty-five years of age,
and five feet nine or ten inches high; by trade
a carpenter, and is a very lively brisk woik
inan. His countenance is very good—When
spoken to, he converfei with ease and confi
dence, and is pretty fagacicus. I purchaled
the said fellow of Mr.Dubney Minor, in whose
name he has been advertised in the Richmond
newspapers. During his last runaway trip (last
funnier,) he was employed a considerable length
of time, by some person near Duinfrit s, from
which eircumflance, I conjeiflure, he has taken
another nothern royte- 1 forewarm all peiTons
from giving him employment, of any kind
wh. -ever, and maftersof vessels and others, from
carrying him out of this state. The above re
ward will be given if he is taken within forty
miles of this city; and an additional l'um, in
proportion to the dii'tance he may be brought,
or the trouble and cxpence the apprehender may
be at, in bringing him tothispHce.
AUG; DAVIS.
N. B. His lpparc! was of the ui'ual r.egro kind,
but he had more cloaths than is cultomary for
them to possess.
AD.
Richmond, Juni is, 1797«
Will be Landed,
From or bodrd the ship Adtive, Capt. Blair,from
Kan-.burgh,
So bals's white Ruflia efcan Hemp
a calks Clover Seed
For Sale by
Thomas Herman Leuffcr,
North Fifth Arret, No. 3*).
Tune g6. ■ £
.William iMackburn,
LQTTERT AND BROKER'S OFFICE
No. 64 fotith Second llreet.
rICKETS intbe Canal Lottery, No. 11, which
commenced drawing the 29th May, FOU.
SALE. Ihe price of tickets will rife in propor
tion as the dnwing advances, particularly on ac
count of the five firft drawn tickets, prizes of
four thoufaud dollars each, on the last day ol
drawing.
Check. Books kept foV examination and register
ing, in the Canal, No. 2, City of Waihjngton, No.
1, and Patrtfon Lotteries.
Alfo v tickets for sale in the Schuylkill bridge and
Perk'omen Bridge lotteries, which will
drawing in the course of the fammer.
I'he buiinefs of » Broker in all kinds of Stock,
Bills, Ncte», Lands, &c- &c. tranfaAed with the
utmofl attention.
June 2 <ruVf
Erfkine's View of the War.
•JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROUERT CAMVBP.LL & Co.
No 40 South Second ftrect,
[Price 31 Cents}'
A View of iht Causes and Consequen
ces of the present War with France.
By the Henerable Thomas Hiiskinc.
May 15 §
STATE TRIALS.
Sold by W. Younb, Bookfrller,
tond-ftr^ct,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
CONtaining tHe trial, and acqaifc
&l of Francis Hopkiofcn, Judg;« of th« Court ef
Admiralty, and John Nicholfon, Comptrolleir Gen
eral—la one large 3 vo. rol. Price, iu bo«ird«, 3
dollars.
W. Yookc hac for sale, a jrener&l afiortmentdf
Books. Also, Stationary, retail and by the park
egc, well ai!o»ffd, and *utitlcd to the drawl>ack if
ajcpartcd. Jnly 7 —■*
pHEBUBgCRIBER having been appoiotad by
X the Envoy hxtraordinnry aad MinUtcr l'ioui
potentiary of hi* liritannic Majdty, Ganersl Agoot
far uiftft'.ng Briufh creditois, fueh particulai a
gents as th«y may ipecia\ly auijknoriac, ia prosecuting
their cUim» before the c«mmiMioncr*for catryio# im
to efFtft the fixtn article oJ the Treaty of Amity, Com
merce and Navigation betxvun ku Brituuwc kajejly and
the United Siata $f America, hereby stives notice that
he ha* opened his office at hi» house the south cast
corner of Chc(nut and filth ftiects, Phiiudeiphia,
where he is raody to receive all claims or ioUfu£lions
for claims with the vouchers and documents thereof,
for the purppfe oi bringiog forward the fame agree,
ably so the rules and orders whick the board may
think proper to preferibe.
And as it will be for the interest of all eooeeroed,
that the several claims be so Rated, and support
ed, as to prevent the delay which would arise from
the neceflityof obtaining further iulormation, or ad
ditional materials,from pcrlons refuting .at a ditUnce,
the general agent thinks it his duly to add, (for the
direction ehiefly of those, who, not having*ibploy
ed agents, may leave of
their claims to his charge and management) that all
such claims ought io particular to set forth—
aft. The proper defcriptiou and lit nation of the
creditor or claimant, ewi original debtor, relat
ively.
2d. The date andr ar.ure of the original or
debt.
3d. When, in what crranntr, aod to what extent,
the creditor or claimant was prevented or impeded,
by the provision, operation or of law, the
deciliopsand practice of courts, or leftraintof exe
cution, from recovering payment 0/ the debt in
question.
4th. The loss and damage incurred or fuflained,
in confequenae of such impediments, whether the
fame may have arisen from the infolveney, chaoge of
fttuation, or death of the debtor, the lof* of legal
remedy from lapse of time, or •thcrcaufes impairing
the value and security of the debt, which woald not
have so operated if such impediment had notexifled.
The particular grounds and rcafons on
which thechiroaet maintains, in the terms of the !
treaty, that " by the ordinary coorfc of judicial pro
ings, the creditor cannot novyr obLain and a£tual!y
have and receive full and adequate coLnpoafation" tor
the losses and damages so fuhaiued.
The general agent thinks it bis duty further to sug
gest th-t the feverai claims ought to be aaeompenied
and by the affidavits of tke claimants duly
Iwom and regularly atrefWd, both as sco the exiller.ee
of the debts claimed; and fuuh other circumthnees
■ti may be within ineir own knowledge rc'pc&ively.
And wherever the claimants in Uating the nature of v
their evidence (which mult in every intiance be the
beftof which the ease v eapable) have orcafion to
refer to the teftitnoiiy of witnefTes, it will be pvoner
to apprifethe general agent of the nair.es and places
of residence of fueh witnelTes and the be cHa
blilhcd by their testimony.
Wm. Moore Smith.
Philadelphia, June Bth. 1797. d
For Sale,
That well known place, called Vandegrifi's
Fitt Y,
ON Nefhaminy creak, t8 miles from Phih
ladeliiliia, on the New York post road,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
preniifies are a large two liory ftane house occu
pied as atvern, and a good one itorv itone kit
chen, a large frame liable with a good threshing
floor, and sonic out buildings—also a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
t!)it place is a moll elegant situation fora gentle
man's feat, commanding a view of the Nefhara
iny to its junilion wiih the Belawaie, and thence
acroft to the Jerfcy shore. It his the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
• For terms apply to the Saliriber,
MORD£CAI LEWIS.
Vav 24. 3tJwtf.
QOLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOM3RIDGE with much pleaf-i
ureand refpefl, returns her iincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal er.couragemeßt
Ihe has received during four years reliden«e ia
Philadelphia ; and allures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, she has made a fupertor arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of hr
scholars. —Every branch of ul'tful and polite
education is particularly attended to by Mr*.
Groombridge and mailers excelling in their
refpe<3ive profe.Tions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797. Jimfcf
The fttuatieo is healtfey ; and made
more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the hotile.
Jujl Published,
' And to be had of M'.Crs. Dolifon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal Booksellers in the
city .price one dollar, twinty-fivc cents,in hoards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Trib'es and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, M. a.
Juntf £©. . ,
No. i£j.
fo'tftrift of Pcr.njy :vani;i, lo vsit :
t- s. REMEKSBEK'HH, that on the
fifteenth d»v cf June, in the twenty
S:it year of the Independence of the Unitqd
States of America, JaM*S Woodhousp, of
the said diilria, hath tk-pofited in thisofike the
title of a hook, the whereof he claims as
author, in the words.fullowing, to wit :
" The Young Chemid's Pocket Companion,
" facing a Defci'ipti'-n of a Portable Labara'tory,
" containing a Philofopfcieal apparatus, and a
" grer.t number of Chemical Agents, by which
" any person may perform an endless variety of
" amutingand infh.uaijig Experiments, design
" ed for the use of (adies and gentlemen, and
" intended to promote the cultivation of the
" Science of Chemistry in the United States of
" Amerira. ByjAMFs Woqdhousb, M. D.
" ProfeiTor of Chemistry, in the University of
" Ptnnfylvania, Pivfident of the Chemical So
" ciety of Philadelphia, &c.
" At present every thing that is notdenomi
" nated Chemillry, is but a small part of a fyf*
" tem of natural knowledge.
PriefHy.on /ir "
In conformity to the' afl of the Congress of thp
UnttedStatc?s, intituled,," Anaa for the encour
agement of Learning, by fecuringthe copies of
maps, charts, and books to the authors and pro
prietors of fuchcopies, during the times there
in mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL, Clerk of the
DiftrnS of Pennsylvania.
July 18. d 31 —wits
No. 188.
DiJlriß of Pennsylvania, to wit :
(l. t) 11 RKMKMBERBD, that on the
JLj twenty futh day of July, in the twen
ty fetond year of the independence of the United
Statu of America, Johw Fehno, of the said dif
trifl ,Uath deposited in this office the tit ir of a book,
the right whereof he claims.as prdprietor, in the
words following, to wit •.
" Obfervatior.s on certain documents contained
" in No. V. and VI. of "The History of the Uni
t" ed States for the year 1796," in which the charge
" of fpectibition, against Alexander Hamilton, late
" Seerctary ot the Treasury, is fully refuted—
" Written by himfelf."
In «onformity to the a A of the Cor-frefs of the
Ucited States, enrituied. "An ail for the encour
agement of learning, by feeXiring the copies of
maps, charts and books the authors un d propri
etor* of fueb copies, during th» tunes thereis n.cu
tioaed."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
CUrk y' tiu [ D ; Jiri£l of Ptntrfylvanui.
July ?-7- * W4W
Public Notice is hereby given,
nptiAT at June term, 1797, a pet.Lion was
X presented ta the Court of Common pleas,
held at V«rk Town, in the State of Peunfylva
liia, at the »n!lance ef James Short, praying
the Court to supply a loft deed nude by a cer
tain Andrew Iliakenluber, tti Hugh Morrifon,
James Morrifon, and johu Sample, executor*
to Hans Morrifon, deceased, for fix hundred
■ acres of Land, iituate in Menallen
township, in tlie county of
sons who have any objections to snike to theob
jea of the ?iid petition arc daSred to attend at
th« Court Hsufe, in the town of York, on the
: 3th day of September next, otherwise the loft
deed will be fuppli«d.
JOHN EDIS, Clerk.
July tS. e»tSs
30 Dollars Reward.
RAN away on Saturday last,, two indented Ser
vants, Giirord Dally, a mulatto boy, about 17
years of age, a Aim light built aAive fallow, can
read and write,five feet seven or eight inches high,
has a heavy countenance ; had on a fuftiaa eoatce
and trowfers, a high crowned hat, fine flioes &c.
Allan Hellons, a black man, about 14 years of
age, five feet seven or eight inches high,a thick fe<
cluxiff built fellow, particularly about the breech%
had on a sailor's blue jackit lined with fwanlkio,
dart, ftripud vest, fuftian trowfers, high crowned
hat, caarl'e shoes, &c.; each of them had several
fijirts and several other eloathes with them. Thir
| ty Dollars will be paid for the runaways, or 1 ? dol
lars for each, and reasonable charges, oh delivering
them at No. 54, North Third-street.
The black fellow is about a year from Lewi*
Town, in the County of Suffer, i'tate of Dela
ware, and has taken the hoy with him.
July jr. mtn&f^w
1 C A IJ T I O N.
WHEREAS Richard Lakf has been at
tempting to fell a certain mefluageor ten
. ement and lot of ground, situated on the south
1 tide of Yice-fttreet, in the city of 1 jijladclphia
; containing in breadth, on Vir.e-ftieet. fixtcen
' feet, and in depth, southward, fevt' ty five feet,
bounded on the 1101 th fide by Vine-ftfeet, on
the call by ground late of Samuel Rhodes and
Sarah his wife, en the south by ground late ®f
John LVmberton, and 03 the weft by another lot
then about to be granted to Jofepli Hulings—
- This is therefore to caution all perfoiis against
purchafmg the above deferibed property, the
i'anie having been, mortgaged by th: laid Rich
' ard Like to William Spade.
SARAH SPADE.
■ July 14 eo2w
Mujical lnj}> tanent Manufactory,
No. 167, Arch-Street.
HARPER, harpsichord,grand, portable graxd,
fid.i-board, pier table and fouare piatu. lorn;
1 tnalur lroni London, returns thunksto hie friend*
1 and the public, for their liberal
" andhopesthat by his affii'uity and Etrer.tit nto ev
ery bmneh of his ttifincfs, erit a continuance
of their lavors. Piano fcrtes made on tin- neveft
: and cic.ft approved plans, with pedal., patct;t,
fwcll, and French harp flop, which lie fl.ttria
hir.dclf will ue found tn tiiil by i:iipreiudice«i
judges, to be equal if not superior to *.ry import
ed, and twenty per cent cheaper. Any ins m
" aunt pureliai'ed ul htm, if cot approved ef ip
twelve months, he Will exchanj-e.
N. Alllcindsof MuSc-'.i tnftruments niacin,
1 uned, and rejwreu with the greattft accuracy,
dispatch, and on the melt reasonable ternit, iir
. ready dor .t oniy.
| Stcond li.nd Piano Fe-rtei taken in exchange.
May ac . &2m .
r Forty Dollars Reward.
"O AN away from the fubferiber 011 the fee'
1 XX. ond day of this inlt. July, a Mulatto Man,
narutd Will Bowier, about forty years of age,
• live feet seven or eight inches high, rather
r chunky made ; had 011 when he went a»av, a
drab colored cloth coat, striped purple trowlers
and jacket. It is probable he will change his
eloathes, as he took a number with him. The
' fanl felfow formerly belonged to Mr. Charles
' Blake of this place; and it is'expeiSed be ha*
made tov. ards Jones's Nerk, in the DtUwar*
State. —Any person apprehending the («id fel
low, and fecuriiig him fv> that I can get him r-
I gain, (hall receive the above reward if taken
cut of the county, ahd TwetJry Dollars ff in
' the county, alnd all reasonable charges if bro't
- homeu
JESSE REED,
/ Ql'een Ana's County, Maryland.
July 3. ~ v, jt