of the & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1480.J
Advertisement.
PURSUANT to an Order from the Orphans* Court,
wtl be fold at PUBLIC SALE, a# Cranberry, on
'* ' j 14th day of fune next, all that valuable
HEAL ESTATE, Lite belonging to the Rev. Gilbert
T. Snowdtn, dneifed % lying in and near Cranberry, in
tbs cou ity of Middlesex, townfiip of South Brunfwith,
(late of New Jffey, upon t'jc lower flage road leading
fro+ Philadelphia to New York. A very elegant frame
bonfe in a beautiful and healthy ftuation, painted white,
wit'} Venetian window shutters, thirty feet front and
ibirty-eigbt feet dap, tivo rooms with a handsome hall or
cntri on the firjl floor, three rooms on the fccond flour and
two wcll-finifLd garrets. In the rear of the bbufe is an
'*ee lent twofiory building confiding of a diving-room for
ootk people, spacious pantries and a large [kitchen, with
every convenience, and over these are three chambers for
j'rrvants. To the right is an additional building conjijling
-f * chamber be I aw and a library above—under the whole
ere very fine cellars paved with brick. The bouse is en
tirely new and finifbed with tafle. Every room is hung
with belts that lead both to the kitchen and the fervtwts'
apartments : there is a pump in the yard; and a flone
and brick pavement round the whole bouse, which 'is cnclof
ed -with a handsome railing, with three gates in front.
The farm cohjijls of one hundred and f'xty seven acres,
with a proportion of woodland and meadow, under excel
lent fence ; a garden with pale fence ; a targe barn, fla
hies, carriage-house, cowhouses, tSV. all new, and built
In the befl manner : with a young orehard of 200 grafted
trees. Nearly adjoining said farm is a lot of Woodland
of tbe befl quality, containing 37 acres. Alfa a trail of
land within seven miles of Cranberry, containing one bunm
dred and fifty acres, three-fourths meadow and the red ex
cellent ti,nber. 1 bis will be fold in lots or together, as
tsill befl suit tbe pur chafers.
The payments, one third cajh—one third in one year—
and th* remaining thirds one year following, with inter ed
o t the two lafl payments, and approved feeurity.
For further particulars enquire of Nathaniel Hunt,
£fy* or Dr. Ralph Lott, Cranberry ; of Ifizac Snowden,
ct Princeton ; or of Ifuac Snowden, Jun. N0.J41 South
Second flreet, Philadelphia.
May 2$ §6mwflS
To be fold cheap,
To close an adventure,
7 Bales Buftas
% ditto Coflas .
Apply at the Store of
Mordecai Lewis.
May 16 eoiw
City of Washington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A.magnificent dwelling-houfc 20>ooo dollars,
& calh 30,000, are 50,000
1 ditto 15,000 & cafli 15,00 a 40,00 a
1 ditto 15,000 & calh 15,000 30,000
1 ditto lotooo k cafli 10,000 so,ooo
1 ditta 5,000 & eafli 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cafli 5,000 10,000 ,
2 cafli prize of 10,000
3 do. 5,000 each,are • 10,000
10 do. 1,000 . • jo,ooo
»© do. 500 - - 10,000
00 de. foo - - 10,000
soo do. 50 io,ooe
400 do. »5 . 10,000
1,000 do. »» • 10,000
|5,00s do. 10 • >50,000
16,739 Prizes.
Blanks.
jc-.000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. Tofavour those who may take a quan
tity of Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but oni t '
And approved notes, securing payment in either
money or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received foi any number uot less than 30 tick
ets.
This Lattery will afford an elegant specimen of
the private buildings to be ereited in the City of
Wjlhington—Two beautiful designs are already
iele&ed for the entire fronts on two of the public
squares; from these drawings ititpropofedloered
two centreand f our comer buildings, ai loon as pof
ible after this lottery is fold, aacto convey the* ,
when complete, to the fort«nate adventursrs, in
the mannerdefcribe-1 in the fchenic for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett dedu&ion of five per cent, will
be made to defray the necessary eitpenfes of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National University, to
be erected within the city of Washington.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the
Prizes, are held by the President and two Direct
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount of the lattery.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
TieSetsmay be had at the Bank of Colum
bia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter
Gilman, Boston : of Joho Hopkins, Richmond ;
and of Richard W«Us, Cooper's Ferry.
mwf
Notice.
A LL persons iadebttd to the Estate of Sa*ah
ii Marshall, deceased, arerequefted to make
immediate pa) meet, and those that have demands
againll L'U estate, are desired to bring in their ac
coants properly attested forfcttlemcnt, to either of
liefubfcriberk. CuaiiToruzK Marshall, Jr.
Caspar W. Haines,
Abraham M. Garrigois,
Adimriftrators to the Ellate of Sarah Mar (hall,
•eeeafed. June 3 HW3W
PenhfylvaniaPopulation Company.
NOTICE is hereby given to the Share Hold
er*, that a further afleffUient of din e dol
-I**3 it levied on each (hare, payable as follows,
si*.
Six Dollars immediately, and
Three Dollars on the tit of July next.
Which thty are requcfUd to p«y to the Treafu
rtr of the Company, at the Company's Office,
No. 53, North Fourtb-flreet, agreeably to the
flmes above mentioned ; and tney are further
jiformed, that on their negle&mg to pa the
fune as above directed, the several forfeitures
4iil be exafied.
Bv order of the Board,
SOL. MAKACHE, Trerfurer.
May ij, d3ot
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal
Company,
May \Ji, 1797.
THE STOCKHOLDERS
WHO are in arrears for any sums due on their
rtfpe&ive Ikares, are retjueftcd to pay the
fame.
WILLIAM GOVETr, Trtafurer.
IO n'4w
PHILADELPHIA: TUESDAY EVKNING, JUNE 6; 17^7.
For Sale or Charter,
■ THE SHIP
•jgtr WARREN,
J Benjamin Church f Master.
I jO? »bout 280 tohs. burthen. En
• quire of
Jcfe S3 5 Robert Waln-
May 16 §
JohnTarris, master.
A GREAT part of her cargo engaged, and
lhe will fail in ten days. For freight or pas
sage apply to capt. Tarris, at Willings & Francis*
wharf, or to GURNET & SMITH.
May 15 5
or London,
TUt C u in
WILLIAM PENNy
Jamrs 'Josiah, Majler.
LL fail with all convenient fpced. For
V V freight or passage apply to
"JeJJe & Robert Wain.
May . 9 § „
For Freight or Charter,
, ° an r p art E uro p^»
SioeStJh Ship
Alexander Magnus,
Capt. Carl G. Ehsman,
ABOUT 350 tons burthen, in this port ; and
also the Dauiih Ship FREDERICK ftJLIUS
liAUS, of 450 tons,now lying in Haaipton Roads.
Apply to JOHN VAUGHAN.
May 16. tutlif6t
For Sale,
The cargo of the brig Enterprize, Captain
Langdon from Bourdeanx, now landing at
Morton's -wharf,
CONSITING OF
524 hhds. of Claret ") £ .
ill cases of ditto I -a "S
100 cases of Sweet Oil j> -3
110 pipes London proof ) |"5 S
10 pipes of Holland ptcof 5 BRANDV- J w
Apply to
Wharton & Lewis,
No. 115, South Front St.
Said Brig,
WILL take a FREIGHT for
Weft-Indies or Europe, fails
burthen about fifteen Jiun
""c barrels, is in complete or
der, and will be ready to receive a cargo in a
few days
Apply as above.
May 14 f
Millinery Room,
No. 136 Market-flrtet.
, MISS CHRYSTAL
TAKES an early opportunity of acquainting
her Friends that lhe has received by the
William Penn, a variety of NEW MTL
LINEP.Y, &c. whick lhe hopes to be able to
ihew them in a few days.
May 18 s3ot
The Commissioners
FOR carrying int® effeft the TWENTY-FIRST
Article of the Treaty of Friendlhlp, Limits,
and Navigation, between His Catholic Majesty
and the United States of America, hereby give in
formation to all Pcrfons therein sonccrned, — That,
in order to terminate a'l differences, on account of
the leffe* luftained by the CitizenAf the United
States, irv consequence of their Vessels and Car
goes having b-en taken by the Subjects of His Cat)i-,
olic Majcfty, during the late War between Spain
and France, that they are ready to receive (at their
Office, between the hours of ten and one o'clock,
daily) all complaints and applications, authorized
by the said Article, during Eiguteen Months
from the day of the date hereof, and that they have
power to examine all such persons as some before
them, on oath or affirmation, touching the com- ■
plaints in question, and also to receive in evidence,
all written teftimory, authenticated in such man
ner as they lhall think proper to require or admit.
By Order of the Commijfiontrs,
PETER LOHRA,
Secretary.
C mmrffioners Office, Ao. 109, Mulberry•
reet, Philadelphia, May t-jth, 1797.
To be Sold,
A large and eonvinient
Three Story Brick House;
SITUATE at the north-east corner of Arch and
Fourth-ftreeta. It contains eighteen rooms—
and is in every refpeift well finifiied. For particu
lars enquire of
M. Keppele,
No. 138, Chefnut-ftreet.
May 3 1. j
Maurice Moynihan,
No. 81, North Second flreet,
A few doors above Arch-ltreet,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he has
for wholesale or retail, on the lowest terms, a
genesal affortmem of Queen's Ware, gilt and cut
tumblers, plain and flowered quart, pint, half pint,
gill and half gill do. exad mea'ures, decanters and
wine glasses j gallon, half gallon, quart and pint
bowls, *nd chi' a in sets and fepirate ; pocket
bottles: Sehuyikill and Jerfcy country quart and
half gallon bottles; Dry Goods, ice. &c.
N. B. Crates put up with car: at the Ihortefl no
tice.
May n dtf
For Sale,
By Samuel Breck, jun, at his Compting-houfe, N»,
<(9, South Third-ftrcet,
A quantity of the befl
Boston mess Beef in whole aid half barrels.
fit for (hip's use
Do. Pork do.
A quantity of Sherry Wine
A few Pipes Oil Proot Brandy, just landed
from Bordeaux
Chocolate in Boxes
Rice, Cotton, CaftileSoap, and
Four or five Bales large Orauge Peels, See.
May »7. «o6t
By John Fenno, N O, 119 Cbefnut Street.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MKS. GROOMBRIDGE with much pleaf
«reand refpeift, returns her fineefe ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
flit has received during fojr years rejGdmce in
Philadelphia ; and assures her friends i:id the
public, so far from intending to decline her
fchoal, (he has rnlde a fiiperior arrangehient for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars.-—Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groombridge and mailers excelling in their
refpeflive profeflions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.'
June sth, 1797. Jimftf
The situation is perfectly healthy ; and made
more agreeable by a a extensive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the house.
Houfhold Furniture.
NOW felling by private lale, No. 17 Dock
ftreet—confiftingei chairs, tables, looking
glaffes, bureaus, hand and fire irons, bedheads,
feather-beds, carpets, bedding, window curtains,
bed and table ltnen, kitchen furniture, «cc. The
whole in good order, an 4 has only been a few
1 menths in use.
The sale to continue daily 'till the whole is fold.
June 4 §
A Quantity of Brandy, *
FIRST & id proof,
Gin, of 4th proof, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds
Oid Hock, in cases of 40 dozen each
Glass Tumblers, in pints and half-pints
Window Glass, in boxes, of different sizes
Hazlenuts, in fecks v
Whiting
&. >
& Spanilh Brown J
For Sale bv
PETBR BLIGHT.
hniisry 4
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
At the Merchants' Coffee house, in Philadelphia,
on the 15th day of June, at 8 o'clock in the
evening, if not before disposed of at private
falc,
40,931 1-2 acres of land, on the
waters of Wheeling and Filhing-creeks, in Walh
ington county, PennfyWania. The fail is remark
ably fewile ; and ( beCdeß a large body of meadow,
there are considerable improvements on the pre
mifes. These lands were patented in 1787. On
payment of part of thepurchafe money, a r-iafon
able credit will be given for the residue. Enquire
of the printer.
*S- jtS r,
Poft-Office, 23d May, 1797.
THE Mail for Baltimore will be closed at this of
fice every morning (Sundays excepted at half past 7
o'clock.,
The Mail for Boston will be closed every day
(Sundays excepted)at la o'clock noon ; and
The Mail for Frederic*, Miltord, Clowes, Dagfco
rough, Delaware, Horntown, Accomack Court-House
and Northampton Court-House, Virginia, will be
closed every Monday morning at half pall 7 o'clock.
May 23. *i2t
Pennsylvania Population Com
pany.
NOTICE is hereby given to the Sharehold
ers, that a further afleflinent of fifteen ■
dollars is levied on each (hare, payable in the
following inftalroents —viz.
One quarter immediately.
One quarter on the ill of June.
One quarter ou the ill September.
One quarter on the ill Dec. next.
Which they are requested to pay to the Trea
surer of the Company at the Company's Office,
No. 53 north Fourth street, agreeably to the
times above mentioned ; and fhey are further
informed that en their negle<sHng to pay the
fame as above diretfled, the several forfeitures
direijled by the Connitution, willl be exacted.
By order of the Board",
SOL. MARACHE,
Treasurer.
May 15 Jim .
St. Andrew's Society. ;
AT a quarterly meeting of the St. Andrew's ,
Society, held at the Golden Swan, last evening,
the following gentlemen were unanimoufiy ele&ed (
members thereof:
Lord Henry Stewart, \
The Honorable Thomas M'Dinald, ,
Mr. IVilliam Alexander,
Capt. Duncan Rose, I
Mr. James Thorbur, 1
Mr. James Stuart, jun. ,
Mr. William Gardner,
Mr. Samuel Campbell, of N. T. 1
The treasurer, Mr. Shields, presented to the j
meeting the statement of the funds of the society ;
whereupon, it was
Resolved, that he be requeftsd to continue his |
strenuous exertions to eolle& in the arrears due to
the poor fund, and to make report ol his success
th<*eiu at the next quarterly meeting.
Richard Lake, Secretary. l
June I. 3 p |
Rofs & Simfon, J
Have for Sale,
A fjUANTITY OF PRIME <
St. Domingo Cotton,
Superior Old Lilbon Wine in Pipes
Excellent India Market
Teneriffe Wine,
In Madeira Calks
A few Quarter Chelts best
SStaSST" 1 ]
Muscovado Sugars in Hoglheads, and 1
Coffee in Tierces
March 7. |]tf 1
Just Received,
From Batavia (via Providence)
170 Sacks of Java Coffee of firft quality
SCO half sacks do. do.
a few Box*«of Spices, confiding of
Nutmegs, Clovesand Mice
For sale by
H'ILLINCS & FRANCIS,
Ifemwftreet.
n»y ia v dtf
Grattan and Comp y .
. n Efpetflfully inform their friends, that they have
. {.V imported fiom Loadon per the (hip Star, a
large affortmeat of
PERFUMERY,
j Which is now opened for sale at their House, No.
. 191 Maiket-ftreet.
r Alfj, a new affoituient of ready-made gentle
men's linen, fnirts from 1 dollars each to 8 dollars,
r &e. See. Jcc.
Ladies and gentlemen are accommodated with
board and lodging a: ten Dollars each.
Those Gentlemen who have their own private
r lodgings, may be accommodated with dinner only,
by tho week or month
; J""8 5 J_ 6t
: Erfkine's View of the War.
t
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No 40 Sour h Second street,
' , CP"" 31 Cents] .
( A View of the Caufss and Confeqrien
• ces of the present War -with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Ekskine.
May 1 5 ft
The fubferibers, have for sale, the
following Goods, viz:
OLD Madeira Wine, ia pipes.
Port do. inpipes, hoglheads & qr. calks.
Malaga do. in hoglheads and qr. talks.
Sherry do. in quarter calks.
Claret do. of excellent quality, in bottles.
RuffiaDuck.
Do. Diaper and Huckaback.
Coarse Toweling.
Ifing Glass, firft fort.
Russia white Soap, cut in fmaltbars.
Mould Candles, in boxes of 6olb weight.
London Porter, in bottles.
100 barrels of good beef. -
A wrought-iron Book Cafe.
PHILIPS, CRAMOND & Co.
Hiiladelphia, ad June, 1797. d.
Just Arrived,
In the schooner Dove, Captain Paul, from St
Thomas, and for ia|e by the fubferiber.
Muscovado Sugar in hhds- tierces and barrels.
St. Croix Rum in hhds.
AndLaguira hides.
ALSO OH HAND,
Imperial, Hyson, and Sherry and Malaga
Hyson Skin Teas. Wines.
Yellow Nankeens. Holland Gin in pipes.
Canton Cloth. Do. Cheese.
Lutestrings. Do. Glass ware.
Silk Hankerchiefs. China Ware.
Sewing Silk. Window Blinds.
Cotton in bales. Rheubarb.
Peruvian Bark. Quicksilver, &c.
JOSEPH SIMS.
May aid. dut.
For Sale,
ON board the ship Moll*, John Frost, mailer
from Liverpool, laying at Walnut-street wharf
6000 bushels of fine ftoved Salt,
And QUKEN'S WARE, well assorted,
By PHILIP NICKLIN £5- Co.
WHO HATE IN STORE, ALSO FOR SALE,
100 Boxes WhiteHavanna Sugars
Imperial and )
Hyson T e a s
17 tubs Quicksilver
1 chests liandanno Handkerchiefs
A few chests Manchester Goods well assorted
in corduroys, thicksets, ginghams, mufliiiets, j
dimities, &c. 2 Trunks black sewing silk, ,
180 Crates queens ware, well assorted, ,
lo Tons Iheet lead,
Nails assorted, Hat and (harp points, (
London particular and ) Madeira Wine in <
India market J pipes and hhds.
30 pipes, 10 hhds. Teneriffe Wine,. <
10 pipes choice Port ditto, 1
31 calks yellow paint, i
7 boxes ii bundles writing dates,
I box ink-ft«m!s & note presses, '
Sail canvas affurted No. 1 a 8. \
Miy 4. dtf j
THE FOLLOWING VALUABLE
Trads of Land,
IN the county of Glynn and state of Georgia,
will be fold by public sale, at eight o'clock
on the evening of Tuesday the 27th "Bay ot June
next, at the Merchants Crfiee-Hrtufe in this ci
ty, unless previously disposed of by private falc.
ill. 7000 acres on St. Simons Sound at the
confluence of Frederica and Turtle rivers, ad- f
joining the commons of the town ofßrunfwick,
originally granted to John llowell, and within -
6 miles of the Atlantic ocean.
id. 15,000 acres on the head wattrrs of a
branch of the great Sattilla, originally granted
to Ferdinand O'Neal.
3d. 50,000 acres 011 the waters of the little
Satilla river, and of Buffaloe and Alexanders
Creeks ; the great Satilla road passes through
these lands, which were originally granted to
Ferdinand O'Neal.
4th. 50,000 acres on the great Satilla river, "
which are also interfered by a branch of the
little Satilla, and were originally granted to
Thomas Spalding.
It appears by authentic certificates from *■
Thomas Davis, surveyor, and from Major k
Hopkins now residing in Philadelphia, that the 8
body of these lands are not thirty miles from
the ocean, and principally within tide water j .
that the Alatamaha is navigable for boats and "
rafts two hundred miles above, and for large J'
vessels within ten miles of them ; that they are |j
chiefly firft rate pine lands, producing timber {•
equal in quality to any in the state of Georgia,
possessing the fame advantages of navigation. ,r
The aboveraentioned certificates, together with r<
the patents, drafts, andother papers refpefling 0
the title, which is complete and unincumbered, 1 ,
< are in the poffeflion of the fubferibers and*may
be seen by applying to Benjamin R. Morgan, at 0
No. j, South 4th Street. The terms of pay- 0
ment will be one third calh, the remaining two 31
thirds in good negotiable endors'd notes, paya- •'
ble in three and fix months after the sale; a '
conveyance to be mad; to each purchaser on the ~
payment of that moiety of the notes received
from him which becomes firft due. c
THOMAS FITZSIMONS,
JEREMIAH PARKER,
BENJAMIN R. MORGAN.
Philadelphia, May 31, >797. eodtf.
Dutch Gunpowder.
A quantity of the best Dutch Gunpowder for b
sale by Satnutrl Breek, jan. Ne. 89, south Third- v
llrect. t
May tj. ' co6t
The Subscriber,
re Determined to retire from bufmufa, invites all
a who have any note, bill, bond or acceptance
ot h.., now due, to call for payment ; and those
who with to anticipate may receive the money
at a re»fonable dilcuunt.
JAMES SVtfAN
9. Dorcheft' r, ntarßoftoa, 16th May 1791
h Richard BayJey & Co.
* Late John Whitesides fc Co.
No. 136 Marhet-Jircely
HAVE received per the ship« William P«r.c and
Star from London, a large*and faffiionable *f
foriment of the fbUowing articles : viz.
Chintzes, and printed Cottons, of the newed
patterns
Furniture Dimities and Chintzes
Gingham?, plain and figured,
Muslins, printed and cm: roider'd
Do. tambcur'd, plain, check and ftrip'd
Do. tamboured, of a very superior quality
Fine Book, Jaconet and Decca Handkerchiefs
Dimities ami muflimn
Damaik table linen, in fctts and in the fleet
Jjiapev ditto in Cloths and in ditto
Holland and Russia Sheetings
Loop'd Hollands and Irifl) Linens
Long Lawns and Cambrics
Sattins and lilies,' plain and figured
Ribbons and Glovts
Crapes ajid Gauzes
Straw, Chip, atjd Paper Hats and Bonnets, new
ihapes
fancy trimmings, See.
With a variety us articles in the Linen-Drapery
and Haberdaflwry line.
May »» §» et
NO W LANDING,
From on board o£ the (hip GEORGE BAR
CLAY, Capt. Charles M'Ales-t*R, from
Calcutta, the following GOODS, viz.
Codas Punjum Cloths
Hummums Gurrahs
Guzeenahs India Calicoes
Emertics Cotton Checks
Mamoodhs Mulmuls
Sahans Red and Blue Ecrmgcu
hkfs
Tickrries Patna do.
Jollas SantipcSe do.
Carridarrta Plain, striped and flower- ■
cd fine muslins
Maragungss Ginghams
Baftas, various forts Tsifeties
t*.tln Romals Bandanno red hits.
ALSO,
300 Calks Sugar
40 Boxes do.
165 Bags do.
70,000 lb. weight heavy black Pepper
40,000 lb. weight Ginger
30 Tons Hemp in Bales
9 Pipes East-India Spirits
For sale by PHILIPS, CRAMOKD tfCo.
May 4. dtf
Venereal Complaints,
PUNCTUALLY attended to in every stage of
that disease, without the tofe of mercury or
restraint of diet, in any cafe recent and simple. on
application at {No. 113, Chefnut-ftreet, opposite
the United States bank, or at No. 170, South Wa
ter-street, between Spruce and Pine-ftaeets, where
he has opened an office for the better accommoda
tion of his patients.
But in Lues Venerea confirmed, Doflor Morgan
pledges himfelf, that no system of cure (hpwever
specious) can be effe&ual without mercury, and
that all the known rules of pra&ice fpr these two
centuries past, and united experience affirms, that
any fubftitutofor it is but nugatory, and any mode
of praftice to the contrary mud be futile and de
ccptious.
Nevertheless, h« undertakes, however compli
cated the cafe, to effeit a cure without inconve
nience or injury to the patient's conftirution, and
in time not generally experienced or expeSed.
I NB. Regular attendance at the office in Water
| Areet, from the hour of nine o'clock in the morn
ing until one, and from three o'clock in. the even
ing until seven; but any o'her time at his dwelling
house, in Chefnut-ftreet.
May 16. * dtf
Printed Calicoes.
JOHNMILLER, Jun. & Co.
No. 8 Chefritit-Street,
Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS Bcatly assorted, very low on
Ihort credit.
March 6. <j
uzekiel Hall
HAS removed his Compting Room to Tcncs'f
Wharf, where he has for i'ale
24 hog(head& Cod Fish.
A Jlorc to lety
In Water-ftrcet, between Market and Arch-Greets
May *9- 6? ,
TO BE' SOLD,
A valuable three story Brick House ;
SITUATE in Lodge alley, next to the bank o"
Pennsylvania, tlx: lot 011 which it Hands, to
gether with the vacant lot adjoining, which ex
tends to Goforth-ftreet. The houle is about 50
feet in front en Lodge alley, and about 42 fret
in depth, she adjoining lot is about 96 feet
front on Lodge alley, and 41 feet on Gpforth
ftreet, being a street which leads from Chefnut
llreet and Carter's alley into Dock-llreet at the
horse market. The house consists of ten lodg
ing rooms, with fix fire places, two dining
rooms, one of them forty feet in length, the
other about thirty-four feet, each containing
two fire placss, two parlours and a large kit
chen, with extensive cellars under, and garrets
over the whole, a privilege of a vacant lot
of ground to the eastward between this Jioufe
and the bank, a pump of excellent water in the
yard, a handsome piazza fronting the vacant
lot, and a frame liable and dwelling house oi»
Goforth-ftreet. The premises now rent for
jC-3 18 per annum. To be fold clear of all in
cumbrances.
For terms apply to John dement Blocker.
April to 3awtf
A Compting House to let..
THE Compting House formerly occupied by
nr. John F.. Caldwell, on Rofs' wharf, will
be vacant on ift June— and for hire to any person
who tr.ay apply for fame. For terms enquire of
the printer heieef.
May 41. eo6p
[Volume XI.Xijt tewttt.
PHILADELPHIA,
T U ESD AT EVENING, JUNE 6-
BY A CORRESPONDENT.
ON TBI IMTVDENt C ALUM MRS AGAINST
Messrs. HA RP E R and SMITH,
111 theenemy's Newfpjpers
THAT Via toe's eaui'e hath lure succeeded well,
And her friend/ effort! plac'd her foes in Hell;
Needs little penetration quick to tell, .
By their load howl, and dire Cerbcrcan yell.
For the Gazette oflhe UNITED STATES.
PARMER GILES declared! fcwdiya since,
" that Genet had no party in America to sup
" port his measures, and that he was univer
" Tally reprobated, except by a few disorderly
" fie'/bni-" A queflion arises who were the
disorderly persons alluded to, and I think we
may fairly conclude they were the members
who composed the firft "Jacobin Clubs in this
country, of which Mr. Genet w as the founder
ond patron, 'faking for granted that Mr. G's
meaning was as fiippofed, ft would be but fair
to fay who were the members of the societies
in queflion ; but as their meetings were always
held inpri-ente and the names of their patriots
in general concealed frfim the public, we can
only have reference to what is contained in an
e*tra£l from the minutes of the firjl or mother
society, dited 3d July 1793 and publilbed by
their friend Bache.
" Officers of the Democratic Society for the
" city arid county of Philadelphia."
D. KITTENHOUSE, President.
Wm. COATS, ) ... „ , . ,
C. BIDDLE, J Viee-Pref.dentJ.
ALEX. JAMES DALLAS,") **
MICHAEL LEIB, / Committee
DAVID JACKSON, >- of
J. HUTCHINSON, \ Corefpondence.
J. D. SERGEANT. J
ISRAEL ISRAEL, Treasurer.
P. St DUPONCEAU, 1 „ , .
J NO. PORTER, } Secretaries.
It has been said that the worthy representa
tive from the city was admitted to the honors
of the fitting, and that his colleague from the
county succeeded to the presidential chair, feut
resigned it in a pet to citizen Bache, because a
leading member, who, either from the want of
nerve, or from having been disappointed in a
flour contrail, didnotchoofe to go all lengths
on forii'e queftionj which were agitated refpeil
ing the -wefterTl injurredion.
' A CITIZEN.
Philadelphia, June j, 1797.
A letter from the Attorney-General of Ireland,
to George Hardir.ge, Solicitor-General to the
Quctn.
Dublin, Jan. \fstb, 1797.
MY DEAR FHIEND,
Yaur letter, desiring the portraits of those
ytu call the great men of Ireland, was duly
attended to previous to the arrival of the
French fleet, on board which there are sup
posed to have been many experienced arri'ts,
who, without the aid of the sculptor, would
have taken off the headof any great man moil
expediiioufly—however, as we were aware of
their [harp praftices, we had prepared some
capital performers, called yeomen—so 33 to
have insured the engraving of their whole
army in cafe of landing. It is to he lament
ed that not a tingle head wasflruck off- —par-
ticuiarly as the JirJl imprefftons would have
been ineflimable. It would require a matter's
hand to give an adequatepidureof Ireland on
the late memorable occalion. The fubjeft
is wortbyof themoft lively colours ; and I trull
that Irish colours will never fly. We are all
anxious for the Bridport squadron.
Yonr's truly.
Exlra3 of a letter from Gibbon to Lord Shef
field, p. 605, dated 1 Ith September, 'B3.
" The other day the French ambassador
mentioned that the eenprefs of Ruflia (a pre
cious—) had potiponed to ratify the principles
of the armed neutrality by a definitive treaty,
but that the French, obliging creatures ! had
declared that they would neither propose nor
accept an article so d'fagreeable to England?'
Gibben was fecvetary of embassy at Paris.
The above anecdote is a curious faft, and
proves what dupes the Americans would have
been to have gone to war with England, at
the French faSion have long wished, merely
ti compel England to ratify the principles of
the armed neutrality, to pleaft the French.
Communication from Benjamin Shreve and
fame* Laurafon, merchants, Alexandria.
On Dr. PERKINS'S METALLIC INSTRU
MENTS.
I have been a witness to an operation of
.Dr. Perkins's Metallic Points on my son, for
the relief of epileptic «t*. He has been fub
jeft to these fits for about eighteen
On the 23d day of the 4th month, he
was seized with one, with entire loss ef
reason—his hands so clenched together by
spasms, that the efforts of Mr. James Laura
fon, whose afliftance I called in, and my own,
could not open them. In this fttuation we
-applied Dr. Peiltins's metallic instruments,
one on each arm, from the elbow down to
his band, and, to our great surprise, hit hands
fooo became perfeftly lax, and opened with
ease, and by continuing the operation on hi*
head for a few minutes; he came to his rea
son and went to deep, since which he has bad
no more sign* of them.
On all former attacks they have continued
half the night, and from twelve to twenty in
number. Bleeding and other experiments
haie been used, but he was never before re
lieved of them so immediately. lam confi
dent the Points effefted the cure.
Conceiving it the duty of every friend to
human happiness to encourage new and life
ful difcovenes, 1 have Hated the above
BENJAMIN SHREVE.
The subscriber was a witness to the above
operation, and can tcftify to the faft* as. dated.
JAMES LAURA'SON.
Alexandria, 5/i Month, 1
lCti day, 1797. J
AUTHENTIC ai'D INTERESTING.
Extra?, of a letter fro<h HullanJ, February
33. 1797.
General Pinckney and hi* family have ar
rived here—on the other hand, Mr. Monroe
Ins arrived ia Paris, upon his return from his
tour through this couutry. What was the
cause of Mr. Pinckney's being ordered lo
leave fiance is vet u .known. But the con
dust of the French gownunent and iis de
pendents, at the fame time towards Mr. Mon
roe, and bil conduft towards them, give fe
tinus iweafinefs. The views and designs which
these circnmltances seem to indite, are of a
nature so important (o the conttitution, and
even union of our country, that I cann«t but
feel anxinus to discover how far they really
extend ; aad cannot but observe, with con
cern, the apparent of an internal
American party wii'* the prefenr government
of France, to overthrow that of the United
States.
You will doubtlef*, before this reaches you,
be informed of official communications made
to the American miniller, from this govern
ment, in the course of the lad Autumn,
wherein they formally, without disguise or
hesitation, call upon '.he United States, to
viola.e their tieaty with Great-Britain, go to
war with her, and make a common cause with
the French and Batavian republics. Such,
probably is (till the intention of the French
Direftory. But, as at present they totally
despair of affefting their purpose by negoci
ating with our executive government, they
will probably turn all their efforts towards
the House of Reprtfeniatives. The aft of
June 5, 1794, againlt which Adet complains
so indecently, expires with the present fcf
fion of Congress. This is the law of which
Fauchet, in his difpatcb, No. 3, fays, that
Randolph told him, " a bill fiad palled the
House 0/ Representatives, which wounded
liberty." An ind'.fputable proof of it is, the
next cUufeof the dispatch, which represent*
Randolph as adding, (< They have at least
taken away the article, which prevents the
sale of the French prizes in our pons."—
Fauchet, in his plartering certificate, pre
tends, that this passage of his No. 3, refers
to a conversation which he had with Ran
dolph, in Apiil 1794, anrl that it related to
the political diviftans in different parts of the
United States, and a bill which gave the
executive powers, that might be abused and
wound liberty. The impudence with which
this flory is told, when the clasfe about tak
ing away the article relative to the sale of
piizes comes so immediately after, in the
dispatch, is not one of the lead curious par
ticularsin the ftrangepublication of Randolph,
rhi clause about the sale of prizes was (truck
out on the 2d of June, 1794, and Fauchet
certifies that the conversation was the April
before. In faft, from the internal evidence
of Fauchet's dispatch, compared with Adet's
la!l note, it is clearly the 7th feftion of the
aft of June j, 1794, which was so extreme
ly obnoxious to Mr. Randolph, and at the
fame titre is so to the French government.
Under these circumltances, the attempt to
pafj an imposition upon the putlic as to the
objeft of the conversation, is itfelf defcrving
of attention Why was there any desire of
disguise in this particular ? Why but be
cause Mr. Randolph's conference"! with Mr.
Fauchet, uponfubjefts to which the fame7th
fed ion naturally leads the contemplation,
were such as it was judged unfit to disclose.
This 7th feftion i* indeed an important thing,
and I am not a little curious to fee how it
will be treated in the House of Representa
tives when the law is to be continued ; that
is, in the courft of the present session.
What expedition or enterprise there may
be views of carrying on irom the territories
of the United States against the dominions
of another Tovereign, I am not qualified to
fay. France is at this time not only at peace,
but in close aliiaace with Spain. But Beithsr
peace nor alliance are complete or efTeftual
guards against projefts of invafiou or revolu
tion. There is uo doubt but that the Preach,
in their negociation for peace with Spaia, en
deavored long to obtain a ceflion of -Louisiana,
and have since the peace been equally folicit
ou* to receive it in exchange for the part of
St. Domingo, which was ceded to them.—
You will observe both in one of the Paiis pa
per* whic!i I have lately sent, and in the Ley.
den Gazette, an article of news, publifhcd at
Paris, as coming from Madrid, that an in
evitable revolution is upon the point of taking
place in Mexico ; and that the people there
will soon (hake off the yoke of Spain. The
pretence that this dilpofitio\i is fomented by
the English may be true or falfe, the material
objeft of observation is the paragraph itfelf,
and the quarter from whence it comes. You
best will know, whether 1 am merely fanciful
in combining it with Genet's arrival at Ohar
lefton, and his intended expedition at that
period; together with the various other symp
toms that have appeared down to a certain
lettei to colonel Thomas Fulham,* a North
Carolinian, which I find in the American
newspapers of the lafl summer, and to the
return of the fame colonel Fulham to Frarfce,
immediately after the ratification of the trea
ty with Great-Britain. The part of the
President's address to the people, applying
particularly to the inhabitant* of our western
Hates and territory, indicates the evidence of
a plan advanced to a configurable maturity.
An obfeure outline of a vait plan, calculated
exsftly for the French-meridian, suitable at
once to their ambition and thtir jealoufv, dif
eovcrs itfelf in these various incidents. If
th-'f plan really exilts in the extent, which
may be rationally fufpefted, the 7th fe£iion
df the aft of June 5, 1794, is a very import
ant obstacle to.vjew* for conducing expedi
tions against the territories of a foreign pow.
er, with which we are.at peace.
But however, that may be, it is certain
there i» another plan, with the success of
which the other part of this feftion is total
ly incompatible ; and that is, the plan for
suspending totally the commerce between the
United' State* and Great-Britain. This de
sign, which ever since the middle of lafl sum
mer,. there has been fttong and increafmg
reason for fufpeQiug, is now in a manner
• The writer miOshej theaame—it is Fulton.
opinly . notwSiHflauding all il>e am
bigtitjr wf.ich perv. • <» all thjji official pa
[f-13 on the fut-jeft, and which indicates no
thing more than the view of retreating from
the system, in cafe they (hould finjl it im
praflicable, with a prctof.ce that they never
adopted it. .
To carry it into eff.-dt, they have two dif
ferent ratxlfl of proceeding : the one, bv
producing a war bet wee.i us and Great Bri
tain; the other by making a fort of war up
on in themselves, and forcib'y intercepting
all our navigation to and from Briiifli ports ;
at lead as far they can. But this yt!•
fedtion is an impediment equally to both thfcii
proeeffee. It prevents them from carrying
on a privateering trade hy mcar.3 of our own
citizens, whicli would be aliogether incon
filtem with neutrality ; and which, if not
fuppijeflcd, would at once harrafs the com
merce and pro'.tike a Date of hoUilltiea : and
at the fame time, it takei fronrthem the
means of intercepting forcibly the naviga
tion to and from Britilh ports, by dcpiivi.i£
them of the means of keeping a line of ptiva
teets along the whole extent of our own
coad, which (hould be ready to meet every
vefi'el which they (hould choose to (lop, up
on iis entering into or nTuLng from the seve
ral ports. To them this i* an essential ob
ject ; for our navigation with British ports
could not be forcibly interrupted, to a very
material degree, but by arreting the vessels
at the moment of departure or of arrival
This they cannot do in the European seas,
Lccaufe the British naval Superiority keeps
them generally clear, and a privateer or fri
gate seldom has a chance of picking up mere
than a (ingle vessel or two, before it is itfelf
taken. Neither can they do it upon the
American coad, while they are prevented
fiom fitting out their privateers in our own
ports, and while our citizens find their pro
perty protected by the juiildiftion of our own
tribunals. The consequences, therefore, of
an unrenewed expiration of this law, are, in
every point of view, so momentous, that 1
co. fider it as one of the principal purpofe3 for
which they are now undertaking to negoci
arc with the Houfeof Representatives againlt
the Executive of the United States.
At prefertt 1 am told here, that it is not
dofired that we (hould go to war with Eng
land ; that it would not even be for the fil
tered of France that we (hould. [ have con
versed, repeatedly, with the petfons upon
whom the principal executive funftions for
foreign affairs reft, and have urged so them
the obvious and inevitable conlequences to
this conntry, of a war between the United
States arid either France or Great-Britain.
Some of them, I have reason to believe, are
alarmed. The merchants, the renters, have
already perceived the eifefts of the mere p/of
pe£t, which is threatened ; and I know that
they are alarmed. The disposition therefore
here is right. I am even told that the French
Direftory wiil not pursue their fyllem to an
absolute rupture, and a hint has been given
me, that Adet's powers will be renewed to
difcufa the differences which have arisen, or
rather that the suspension of his fun£tions wiil
be removed. But all this may be intended
merely as a cloak to conceal (f-'figns of bof
tility, and prevent a state of preparation to
quarrel against them.
The measure of ordering Mr. Pinckney a
way, is so violent in its nature, that it is abso
lutely necessary to consider the Dire<story as de
termined upon proceeding to every extremity
forthe purpose of carrying their point 3 in A
merica. As it is unquedionable, "that the ruin
of our .commerce and a war with Britain are
invplved in these points, I cannot fuppoie that
the government of the United States will sub
mit ; and I mud therefore recur to an idea
which I have heretofore fuggeftet!—that is, the
importance of a cool, moderate and candid
datcment to the world of the real situation of
our differences with France. The notes of A
det, and mod efpecialiy the speech of Barras to
Mr. Monroe, when he delivered his letters of
recal, flart pretenlions of superiority on the part
of France, and of dependence on that of the
United States, which mud be refitted and refu
ted. Inltead of which, it is painful to fay it,
Mr. Moproe himfelf in his speech gives them
countenance and encouragement, by talking of
generous afiiftarice, which never was given, and
which their own official documents have long
since disproved.
The papers publilhed by the British govern
ment concerning the negociation of Lord
Malmelbury, ferv* in a great measure to (hew
the immediate system of France The d Ablu
tion of the German Empire'is avowed as one of
the objeils. This plan which was checked by
the disasters of their armies on the Rhine, the
lalf autumn, appears by the capture of Mantua,
to be refuraed witn new vigor. Italy feeras to
be secured to them beyond the reach of acci
dent; the fate of the neutral dates in that quar
ter, is asmiferatle as that of those which are
parties in the war. Florence, Venice,and Ge
noa, by turns ate required to supply money and
provisions, no less than if they were in a date of
complete hodility; and no fort
orfubmiffion can remove thedanger that is con
tinually threatened, of revolutionizing the go
vernments, and turning them into new, one
and indivisible republics, allied and tributary
to France.
A very larg« detachment from the Austrian
army on the Rhine has marched into Italy, as
likewise have conficterable parts of the French
armies j another ltruggle U to take place in that
quarter which in all probability will terminate
hke the former. The Austrian forces like those
of all the allied powers thro'this war, are ap
parently a formidable body ; but a body rotten
at the heart. Treachery pervades all their
camps, or a languid indifference palsies every
exertion. Yet it does not appear probable that
the Emperor will yet make peace; because up
on every success the French troops obtain, their
government swells its political system and by
the time when.Audria will be ready to facri
fice the Netherlands, he will be required tu
consent also to the efiablilhment o[ a republic
formed upon his Italian dominions.
The troops which had been embarked for the
expeditioh against Ireland, are coming to join
the armies upon the Rhine, where it is now
fiid the French are to taki again their offenfive
poiition. I hear no more at preftnt of the in
tention to fefid them again to sea. The Direc
tory some days ago rtqueded the Legifiative As
sembly to place tliiriv three millions cf livres at
thedi r pofal of the minider of marine, I fee
they did allow him only twelve millions and an
half; a sum large enough, to squander or throw
away, but not competent'fur much else.
My letters from France intimate great ex
pectations of in »h» Legifla
. live Affrm'oly, and a y.irc tarorai,fe profpra
for peace after new elections, which are to •
becompleated ato-l the icth of next month. I
! have not fur ray nwn'part, tl.e Jcat! i<le;r, that
! tliiy will pto Ine? a")' minrtjl aFerJtion.
They' sue Tt>!l debating the cOfilliiution here.
Tt will probably take them a month or lix Weeks
longer. A r]ut. oif in Frieflantl
has been fuppredfd, by killing and wounding
about a dozen of the riotfrs,
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
THURSDAY, MAY 24. _
Gall atin'r Speech coyTiNum)
But a question has been: indtreftly made
by gentlemen, whether it is proper to offer
to place France on the fame footing wit,h
other nations j this question had indeed been
already so well answered, that there was lit
tle left forhiti) to add ; and it might-be re-,
solved into the queftien, what is the l i of
nations ? Because if there is a precise law
of nations, that belongs to all, and must be
mutual ; this has been difcufled in the rfie
rits of the armed neutrality, which whether
it contained truly or not the fixed law of
nations was accepted as that permanent law
by America in the midst of her Revolution,
when it was above all other seasons the least
her interell so to recognize it, and which,
if there was a doubt, (he would have b.en
juftified in a£ting upon to her own salvation
and benefit ; in like manner the Trapty of
1778 was concluded ; but the gentleman
from S. Carolina (W. Smith) had infilled
and the Secretary of State in his letter to
Mr. Pinckney had endeavoured to argue,—
that it was not meant to b; permanent; —
their arguments had been already so point
edly refuted by a gentleman from N. York
(Mr. Livingfton) that he had to add only
one conclusive faft ; the gentleman had as
serted that the armed neutrality had ceased
to operate upon the termination of the war;
now if it (hould be found that one power
had entered into that coalition and recogni
zed the principles thereof as a permanent
law, the gentleman's conclusions fell at once
to the ground ; the gentleman had argued
that the convention of armed neutrality was
not to be permanent, and the Secretary of
State had supported or rather broached the
fame opinion—what does that document it
felf declare—" These stipulations (hall be
further considered as permanent, and (hall de*
cide in all matters of commerce and naviga
tion ; and in (hort, in every cafe where the
rights of neutral nations are to be deter
mined"—To this article he would only add
this plain faft, which he fonnd recorded in
the history of the armed heutrality, which
had been quoted by gentlemen, that in the
year after the conclusion of the war, Portu
| gal. had formally acceded to that conven
' tion ; its provisions concern (hipping, and
jwe fee a maritime power acceding to it in
j the tranquil moments of peace, and 'agree
; ing to it as the permanent law of nations ;
and it is upon our accefiion to the principle
while we were ourselves at war, and when its
acceptance was in opposition to our interest
but conformable to our love of justice, and
upon our subsequent recognition of it as
well in the cafe of our Treaty with France
a3 with others, that we are now bound to
put France upon an equal footing with those
to whom we have since relinquiihed the
principle. He did not know any treaties of
other nations in which the fame principle
had not been recognized, unless it was in an
iiiftance mentioned of Rufiia having com
bined with England to do it away for the
temporary end of starving France into a sur
render—or as was the fafhionable exprefiion,
of blotting her out of she map of Europe ;
Denmark and Sweden indeed had in some
measure given way to the nectffuv of the
times by declaring that they would abide
by none but generally received laws, arid io
this they no doubt adted with a prudence
that could not be blamed ; and it was right
under a preflure as urgent that the United
States had pursued a corresponding conduit;
and if right in these powers it could not be
laid to be wrong only in the cafe of France,
who being willing to maintain it, cannot
find the other powers ready or able to ren
der the support mutual and general; but it
had been said that America was not bound
by her Treaty with France, not to make
this relinqui(hment to Britain ; as a foreign
nation unquestionably (he had a right to
treat as (he pleased, and no other nation had
a right-to interfere in the afts of her sove
reignty ; but was it right to acknowledge it
in opposition to the law of nations, and to
grant it without an equivalent from the on
ly nation that had before denied that law ;
it (hould have been the fine qua non in our
ncgociation with Britain, not of war, but a
sim qua non of negociation ; it would have
been our interest & our duty not to abandon
the principle, even tho' our strength did not
allow us to support the execution, and we
(hould hav£ 4cft past depredations to have
been amicably compensated, but asserted
ftrefiuoully bur fectirity for the future : —this
is a real effeftiial, and not such a fiftitious
security as we have now obtained ; the mis»
cbiefs of an abandonment of the principle,
is to us of immense magnitude. - •
On the contraband article, the gentleman
from S. Carolina had found Vattcl, who was
every thing in all Other cases, completely
void of authority, although Great Britain (
agrees with Vattel ; but how is France to
be contemned for her maintenance of the
do£tnne against Britain ; the only way to
obviate the difficulty is by placing her on
the fame footing as France In this refpeA,
and specially stipulating that the principle
is not abandoned, but' granted for a period
co-ex iftcnt to each of the powers ; this will
be a leflcr evil, but there is little to be deri
ved from either party, and when two pow
ers are at war, when we are not able to en
ter into e.itenfive hostility, we had better
incur a disadvantage where theie is no dis
honour, than infill upon objects of subordi
nate value, which may be in more auspicious
times retrieved.
It had been kid 1 , we should not ojtr
1 France an ultimatum ; he had not heard one
reitfon to shew the bad consequences of such
a step ; he was for giving an ultimatum,
and for this very phi a reason, because every
thing that could be known on this fubjedt
by either party was already perfectly under
stood, but more particularly because Mr.
Piacknev informs us, the people of France
entertain an opinion that we are divided ;
which though true in some cases, would put
us on ftich ground a3 to shew thlt on the
true national points we Were united to a
man. Those wlw eppofe it on the ground
of conceflion, would do well firit to shew
that what we -ougjit and are certainly wil
ling to allow, can.be.so confidcred.
If this amendment should be rejett»d, cr
•at least tire spirit of itAould not be adopted,
can it be expend thnt'gentlemen who for
merly opposed and disapproved of the mea
sures of adminiftratian, will f&crifice their
:.opinion3, as has been insinuated they should;
can it be expetted that r.fter the clamour
which has been raised with the obvious in
tention to overawe us ; after the Executive
has been put up as a kind of (Held to stand
between us and the truth, and to protest
their arguments and irritating from
animadverfionj that we should not rather be
the more alarmed for ourselves, and more
fixed to such measures as we are convinced
arejuft ; he had always spoken freely, and
he would continue so to do, always preser
ving due refpeft for others.
£To be continued.J
June 5t
The Journals of the Proceedings of Sa
turday having been read.
Mr. Nicholas supposed there was an o
mission, as nd mention was made of the re
solutions whichhadbeenbro't forward by the
gentleman from South Carolina, after the
doors had been clofcd, and which ithadbeen
determined were net of a, nature to require
secrecy.
Mr. W. Smith said the vote which hid
been taken only related to a part of what lie
had brought forward.
Mr. Nicholas said. he understood that
the letter which he had produced was a pri
vate letter, and -therefore it was not neces
sary to notice it.
Mr. Gallatin observed that no diftiti&i
on had been made. If the letter could be
considered as part of the communication, it
was also included in the vote, as it was lim
ply that the communication did not require
secrecy.
Mr. Macon thoughf the refutations ilood
upon the fame, ground as that upon which
a motion is offered to the Houfe,upon which
no decision was made, which was never re
corded until it was takeu up.
Mr. Thatcher- concurred in opinion.
Mr. Nicholas was still of opinion an en
ti'jf ought tp have been made in the Journals
and moved to amend them.
The question was put, and there appear
ed 41 votes in favour of it, and 41 against
it, the Speaker decided it in in the nega
tive.
The Houfethen refolveditfelf into a com
mittee of the the state of the Uni
on, Mr. Dent in the Chair, and the speech
of the President At. the opening of the session
having been read, „
Mr. W. 5j.1,1 T.fi said he wished to layu
pon the table a number of resolutions, which
it appeared, if.it should not be found ad
visable to carry the whole of them into ef
feft, were at least worthy of discussion. He
did not, however,-at present pledge himfelf
to support the whole : they were as follow :
See yejlerday's Gazette.
refolutions having been read from the
chair,
Mr. W. Smith moved the fir ft of tbem,
Mr. Macon wished thcgentleman from
South Carolina to inform the committee whe
ther he meant to repair all the fortifications,
which had heretofore been contemplated.—
Perhaps some might be necessary, but he
thought, considering the present state of our
finances, fsw of them ought to be attended
to. Much of the money already expended
on this fubjett had been thrown away. He
particularly mentioned New-York.
Mr. W. Smitjl thought the gentleman
hanbeenlong enougha member of thathoufe
to know, that when they were about to fet
tle the principle of a thing, that it was not
usual to go into details. If the rcfoluticn
was agreed to, a committee would be ap
pointed, who would report such fortificati
ons as it appeared to them necrfiary to be
attended to, with an estimate of the expenee,
upon which the house would determine ;
or a sum of money might be voted, and
leave it to the President to employ it as ap
peared to him beftbut this was not the
question, but merely whether a farther sum
of money should be voted f» this objett.
Mr. T hatcher thought they were not
ripe for .this Cabjeci, as they did not know
what was the state of the different fortificati
ons. He thought as there were a number
of propofitiots, in some degree con netted,
tjbat it was ilefirable" that they should be
printed > Ijejhg-efore moved that the com
mittee might rife to give time for this to be
Mh GfLEs wiflied the gentldnan would
reverfe'his projbfitions, and let the one' for
.railing money ceWs'e firft. He did not kn6w
whether thfiy were prepared to meet this
expenee. He "did pet mean to oppefe th;
prefcnt motion r he supposed it wo aid pass.
But he thought they were aboit to be too
precipitate* in their measures. At a time
when all Europe seemed to be tired of the
war, and about to make peace, we feeued
to be disposed to rush into it. He id r.ot
believe thatniuch good would be done by
this system. cf fortification. He did not
think the United States were more secure
now, than before they had a fmgle work of
the kind. We have, said he an extenlive sea
coast, and it was not to be expetted that an
eneniy would chufe to come to precisely the
place where a fortification stands. It was
his opinion that the interests of the country
would be fiirved, by letting thi3 matter lie
ov;r till th? next feflion.Ms-. Williams obfcrvcd-th.s.r the ferie
of the committee would be firft taken upon
the propriety of into the measure ; if
there was a majority in favor of it (and he
could not doubt it) the matter would be re
ferred to a felr£k commit tee, who would make
their report upon it.
Mr. «*>._ Smith was in favour of going in
to this
in Enrope, he thought it probable we might
be Artrwn into it.
Mr. Sv/an v/jck should not be opposed to
the pref.nt motion, because he agreed with
the gentleman from Maryland, that whilst
the war continued in Europe there was a
a probability of this country being drawn in
to the vortex. But he there was
some \Vaight also in the obfervatjon of the
gentleman from Virginia, with refpeft to
the wayaand means ; because if, after they
should agree to carry into effect certain mea
ftires, they should disagree about the means
their time would-have been spent to no pur
pose. •
Tha question was put and earned, there
being 62 votes in favour of it.
Mr. W. Smith moved the second Re
fohition.
Mr. Nicholas wished to know whether
the provision already made for completing the
three frigates was not fufficient ?
Mr. \V. Smith said he had no informa
tion on the fubjeft ; he had inserted the
word + nrrb!(ting as well a3 manning, left there
fhou!d"be ahy deficieecy.
Mr. Otis was not prepared, in so rapid
a way, to press resolutions of this import
ance, without having them printed, or time
to deliberate upon them. If he voted for
these resolutions, he should consider himfelf
as pledged to carry them into effect. He
therefore, hoped the committee would rife.
Mr. Macon was opposed to this resoluti
on. He did not believe that seamen could
Y>e got to man the vessels, as nearly four
times the price was paid for seamen's wages
that was paid when the lawforbuilding these
Vessels passed.
Mr. Rutledge was in favor of the com
-1 Vttee's rising.
Mr. Nicholas had no objection to the
committee's rising, if gentlemen wished it ;
iffo, he hoped the resolution agreed to would
be reported. He wished the principle of
the different resolutions, however, to be
fettled in a committee of the whole.
Mr. Craik, Mr. Claiborn, Mr. Var-
HVM, and Mr. Coit were in favor of the
committee's rising.
Mr. Swan wick thought it would be belt
that a committee should be appointed to re
port on the business.
Mt. S. Smith saw no reason for the
<ommittee's riling, because if gentlemen
were not prepared to vote upon this resolu
tion, they might go on to others. Tho'
Jie should vote in favour of this propofition<
he should not hold himfelf bound to vote ul
timately for the bill, if he disliked it.
The motion for the committee to rife was
withdrawn, and afterwards renewed by Mr,
M'Dowell, who also withdrew it, on a
suggestion from Mr. Livingston that the
resolution would be less objectionable to run,
" that a committee be appointed to enquire
into the propriety of &c. and when the com
mittee had the business referred to them,
they could possess themselves of all the ne
eeflary fafts, and report them to the house.
Mr. Gallatin said, if the queflioa wis to
determine the principle of manning the frigates,
the resolution lti»d right as it was ; but if it
were not intended, by adopting this resolution,
to commit any man, bat only to fay, tli.it they
would take the business into conficieration, and
if found urefill and neceflary, and funds were
attainable, rhey wwuld carry it into effect, then
the amendment of the ge-stleman from Wew-
Virk (Mr. Livingfton) would be proper. As
tothe committee's rising, hec ould fee no ground
for it, as these propositions were not new they
had had them before jhem for three weeks in
tbHpsrcb of the I'refident j of coorfe, so far
Xs related to the frigates, gentlemen mull have
formed an opinion, yet lie agreed that it was
desirable t& fee finite documents on the fubjefl,
before a decided affirmative or negative was
gifrfn'. lie Was therefore in favour of ihe A
raendment for a committee to be appointed.
He wifhtd all those fubje£ts which were of a
t'oubt'i;! nature be thus determined. On
the other haflrr r e upon which members
were ready to 1 at 6nce, either by an ac
ceptance or rejeC..uii, might- be vcted upon in
the form in which they were introduced.
Mr. Pamcik. read the motion which was en
tered into lift year, and thought it would be a
good model for the present.
Mr. W. Smith was of a different opinion:
he thought the committee should firii decide
the ahftrait principle. lie thought it would be
wrong to refer to a felcdl committed a business
in which every member was so intimately inter
red, and he doubted not gentlemen were rea
dy to decide upon this abftraft question. With
regard lo espcnfe, he was of/opinian, that if
thofituation of the country required it, that,
should be no obje<ft, If gent lemen though: dif
ferent y, they would of course negative thepro
poCtion. Any information on the fubjefl,
could be got before the business was finifhed.
He thought they fhoyjd firft fay what were itie
necefTary objects of expense, and then provide
the money, which might be done by borrowing
or by taxes. If thert was a necessity for the
rxprnfe, there was no doubt the money would
bo raised. If gentlemen were not prepaied to
difrufs the fubjeet, he had rio objeilion to the
fcmm'ttee.'s Tifing, and, in the Honfe, the
Secretary 15 War, ntight be called upon for in
lofmati<ui.
Mr. N ichouas thought the question was I
not fairly preftnted. It was whether they
fhouid man the frigates. But when rhey were
called upon to determine this ; they ihould
know w hen. they would be ready to receive the
men. The probability was, that the frigates
wouUi i.pt.l>4 ready to receive the irum before
the next fcfiion of Congress.
Mr. Dayton (thefpeaker) was in favour of
the original proposition. He wifhfrd to provide
fcr tnannmg all the frigates which could begot
r<*ady before the next lefiion'of Congref*. He
1 itYed if they adopted this plan, unneeeflary
Oelay woujd he prevented*
Mr. PAKKkR was ready to vote for the pro
portion of the gentleman from S. Carolina. He
helieyed the frigite in Philadelphia, might be
equipped, ripped and manned in three months."
Tbc only reason why he var>ed hi«mot'>n was
that he might include the nrxt propofiticn ;
but bel>efieved it w*uM be be tu* so** them to
Ifcand separate, as be? »?e he votft for t.'ie acMi
♦ion,:! vcffcls, he jhcuhl **i/h t ; > k:io«r h:w the
oitar.s uere fcr wh.it purpose
they u«jre to be afrij. The vefTef at 80,10r., hi
would net be read yTo soon, but 1 -it would
*e in before the next meeting of Con
<Trefs ; that at Baltimore would be in readiness
to menin>four months,
„ Smith said, the f. igite at
Balttfltore, would be iawnchcal the 4th of
Tuiy, and the equipments were in greater for
wardaefs than those for the frigate a£ Philadel
phia.
Mr. Baldwin was agaaift referring this
propefition to a ieiefi com.nittee. It would be
defirahle, in.leed, to know what the coit of
{leing the business would be, but every one knew
how little to be rehed upon were estimates of
this kind. He was ready to vote for manning
of the frigates ; indeed, there wis ho question
upon which he was so ready to fay apt, as upon
this.
The question was about to be put on Mr.
Livingftoni motion, when
Mr. Varnum said he thought the wording
of the resolution improper, as the word corn
pleating would clafti with the a a of last session.
The question was put and negatived, 50 to 34.
Mr. Macon wished the frigates to bo completed,
but not manned, he therefore moved to flrike out the
words u and manning."
The question was put and negatived—there being
only 24 vo.es in favor of it.
Mr. Giles moved to strike out the word 44 com
pletirJg; ' but, after some converfatron, the moiion
was withdrawn, and the original resolution was car
ried
Ihe third proportion next came under considera
tion.
Mr. Nicholas hoped the gentleman who introd'ic- *
cd this motion would tell them for what purpose
these additional vessels were wanted. He supposed
this resolution to be conne<sled with the next, and if
so, he thought they should be considered together.
he asked. were to be the i u6lions given to
the commanders of these veflels ? He thought it a
very embarrafling bufinefs,*ahd one that would cer
tainly lead to war; hay, indeed, the thing seemed to
be a war operation in itfelf.
Mr. W. imith wished the geirtleinan had made his
enquiries before.. 1 hey would have come morepre
perly when the frigates were under confidei ation, as
ihe fameobje£tion would lie against both; as the next
refoNitiori had no more connexion with this than
\*ith that already agreed to The gent leman felmed
to have let go the opportunity of calling upon him ;
as, however, he did not wifti toevade (tho'
he was not willing to fay he would hiinfelf vote <or
the measure) he would .fay, that it appeared to him,
from the present Hate of the commerce < t this coun
try, to bi necefTary to provide convoys for our veflels
These veflels might not, indeed, be employed as a ie
gular convoy, but partly confined to ihe coasts sfnH
harbours. This was a separate question ; or it mighr
be left to the executive to employ them as he
fee proper. He was nor, however, ready to
opinion on the fubjeft. He rose principally to re
mark upon what had fallen from the gentleman last
up, as to employing a convoy being an aft of war
He owned he had not lookrd deeply into the fubjett
at present, but he recolletted in our treaty with Sue-,
den, there was a stipulation, that when both powers
were neutral, they should protett each Other's com
merce.
Mr. Giles thought this a very extraordinary mea
sure. He called the attention of the committee to
the critical fuuation of Europe, and thought, before
they went into any expensive operations, they should
wait the iflue of the negociation, cfpecially as he
supposed it was probable a full feflion might be ne
ceflary. It had been said several of the ports in the
Weft Indies were in a blockaded and rebellious flare.
He did not suppose it was the intention of the com
mittee, by means of a convoy, to p <f& a trade to
those ports; this would be a certaiu means of pro
voking war. He thought they ought to make a paufc
—as it was probable tkat in less than four months
from this time they might again be in feflion, and, in
the mean while, the affairs of Europe might have
taken such a turn as to do away the ne'.eflhy of go
ing into hostile measures.
Mr. Nicholas expe&ed the gentleman'from
South Carolina would have acknowledged that the
two resolutions were connected. Indeed he must
have intended these veflels to be employed in th : s
way, or such a resolution would not have been in
troduced With refpe& to Sweden's treaty for a
reciprocal convoy, there was some ground for it,
a* there was a difference betwixt the northern pow
ers of Europe as to the principle of free ships mak
ing free goods—but where tm-re was no difference
as to principle, no fu h thing could take place.
Mr. Gallatin said the prefect resolution was
certainly i" some degree connected with the n xt.
It was understood that the purchasing of frigates ;
and fioops of war w-s for the purpose of convoy
ing our. trade. Under the prefstnc clrcumftances j
of this cowntry he should be oppt fed to this pro
portion ; not that he denied the right of neutral
powers to afford convoys vo their merchants' ves
sels ; but because under present circumflances it
was impolitic to adopt th<* measure, not only for
the reasons urged by the gentleman from Virginia, :
but on account of our Ctuation with refpedl to 1
Franoe at the present moment. By our treary with ;
France enemy property was to be refpedetf cn board
American vessels, and certain articles used in the !
building of (hips were exempted from the lift of j
contraband the l'refident would of course be o- !
bliged to give orders to have our vessels prote&ed
in this lituation, and who eould not fee that this
would be the source of war ? And if the convoy
were not to be employed to enforce these two pri
vileges, he did not fee what use it could be of. * He
knew that depredations without number had been
committed in the Weft-Indies; but he was led to
believe they wer« done by pirates rather than by
any other vessels. But suppose it were pra&icable
to drrtinguifh betwixt piratical and regular captures,
yet, he must confefs, he would not be for running
the risk of a rupture, by fending out aimed vessels
to contest the point, especially when we have rea
son to believe that these attacks are unauthorized
by the French Government
Mr. G. thought it would he necessary to extend
our na.vy in cafe of war only ; and were this un
happily to be our lituation, vessels might easily be
put-chafed without delay : hut whilst we were at
peace, Jie did not think the advantages which could
be derived from a convoy, would be a fufficient in
ducement to go int«rthe measure. Bef:de3 he was
'induced by another motive to give this propofltion
his negative. He knew the depredations on our
commerce had been great; but he did nWlook up
oh this-lofs as fallen only upon merchants. There
was not an individual who did not bear a part of it.
For inftancc, if a merchant paid 10or 15 percent,
additional upon his cargo, he will put a proportion
ably high price upon his commodities, which mult
eventually be paid by the consumer. Therefore,
fo'far as an argument might be drawn from this
circumstance, it became a question of expediency,
and ha thought it would be granted that the ioi's ta
individuals would be lefi iu this way than if they
had tofupport a navy to protect our trade.
Mr. W.Smith acknowledged there was consi
derable weight in the arguments of the gentleman
from Pennsylvania, though he did not find fuflici'
ent to induce him to change his opinion. The
gentleman from Virginia had endeavoured to (hew
that a? there was no difference oi opinion as to prin*
ciple betwixt Trance and this country, the regula
tions entered into with Sweden did not apply ;
whiift the gentleman from Penrfjrlvania had pro
duced afgumenrs to fcew that we were in that fi
tua'ion. With rcfpe& to the treaty articles in dif
pute, it would be an easy matter, Mr. S. said, for
the PrefiJent to give the commanders of our veflels
proper inftru&ions on that head. And would any
gentleman fay it was not right to defend our vessels
agai 11ft pirate* t Would not the French fay, if they
were applied to for rodrefs, «' You knew these w. re
piratev why did ypu oot defend youj-felves against
them r The which seems f» much to
a'.arcrgentlemen, fhfculd be put out of the ques
tion , said he : if your property is unjustly att-ck
cd, will you defend it ? •
But it was said thj loss did not fall ucna the
1 merchant, Jjwt upifn t'ie eonfunier. Mr 5 aTert
i en its'.'l i:;ibn tile c»antrv ; and so far fr.im the
' of the J 1 .
J the left sustained by captures, it wonld not, in his
opinion, be atmthpart of the'amonnt; forwhat-
I ever the p'.undecers got, tt, -, mi ry loft- Mr. S.
said h- had niadi? a rou»h Calculation of v/hat woald
be the eipenfe of thtee frigates of 16 guns, aiiu 6
sloops of war of 16 ?uns, anJjfmnd it to '.e 916,
00c dollar., including thoequipment and mai.nii g
far or.e year'
Rut, fii! Mr. P. doe« not the farmer
by these fioliations ? Hecrrtsinly does ; for, if
the merchant was obliged to pay an extriva
pinr hifiiranee, he would pive the tefs for the
farmer's produce; bjt, he, the expense
of the frigates, 'will be no loss |oth? country,
53, it they eoft a million of dollars, the jvh.de
| u ill be paid to our arn citizens, every article
■ used in tie building of these veflels being the
■ produce of the United States.
j But gentlemen complain of our impa
-1 tience in the business ; he thought the
! wrongs we had fuffered fufficicnt to rouse our
I refentmetit. It was also said, that theise was
: a probability of peace, and why go on with
: this Sxpence ? But he might as well fay,
I there was no probability of peace. One
supposition would Hand againll the other.
; Indeed, who knew that the Czar of Russia
would not join the coalition againll France.
| A hope of peace, therefore, was not a fuffi
ciently liable ground upon which to calcu
late. We mull, said he, either interdict all
trade, fufifer merchants vefTels to arm, or go
into the measure proposed.
Bu it was said that France had declared
certain Britilh ports in the Weft Indies
blockaded and ;n a state of rebellion, and
therefore, we mull not trade with them, but
he did not know why our vefTels Ihould be
subject t i be taken, and our seamen to be
hung, because they chose to make these de
clarations. Declarations, which he trusted
this country would never acknowledge.
What, said Mr. S. will be the conse
quence of jiegociating without taking any
measure of defence ? It will put it in the
power of France to make requisitions on us
to any amount she she may spin out
the negociation, by throwing difficulties in
the way of it; (lie may take all our vefTels ;
"Jlnd, when (he has drained us of all our
wealth, it wjll be said, we mujl fulmit. —
\Vhere will then be your privateers ? Your
vefTels are taken, and your seamen gone !
The gentleman from Pennsylvania admit
ted the right of neutral powers to convoy
their vefTels : That gentleman put the mat
ter upon the expediency of the thing, which
was the true ground upon which he wished
to have it difcufied.
Mr. Giles said the gentleman from South
Carolina talked of defenfive measures, but
his plans were offenfive. That gentleman
had undertaken to doubt the right of France
to declare her ports, Rebel ports. Was
this defenfive ? Every nation had this right.
It was pot long since Great Britain exerci
sed it againll us. Yet, aided by a convoy,
he wished to push our trade to these ports.
This would not only be hazarding the peace
of the country, but taking the diredi road
to war.
Mr. Baldwin said, in all their determina
tions, with refpe£t to a naval force, however
great' the emergency, it had always been de
termined to build, rather than to purchase
vefTels, and he saw no reason from departing
from this mode, in the present instance.
After some objections from Mr. W. Smith
to the building plan, which he said would
take three or four years to furnifn the prd
pofed vefTels, whereas merchants vefTels
might be immediately purchased, which
would answer the purpoTe of small frigates,
tbe Committee rose, reported the two rcfo
lutions, which the House took up and
agreed to, and Committees were appointed
to report upon tliem by bill or otherwise.
A message was received from the, Senate,
with two bills which had passed that HouTe,
viz. a bill for prohibiting for a limited time,
the exportation of arms and ammunition,
and encouraging the importation thereof;
and a bill to prevent citizens of the United
States from privateering against natipns in
amity with, or against citizens of the Uni
ted States. Both which were twice read,
and committed to Committees of the Whole
to-morrow. Adjourned.
%\)t <2>a3ette*
PHILADELPHIA,
TUESDAY EVENING, JUNE 6, 1797.
The brig Mary, Capt. Ward, arrived at
New York, left the Texel the 29th March,
—there lay 23 fail of French and Dutch
men of war ready for sea ; there was that
day off the Texel 21 fail of English men of
war, cruizing within 3 leagues of the land.
The 4th of April, in the of
Dover, was brot too and boarded by a En
glish frigate, treated with politeness and or
dered to proceed on the voyage, lat. 46, lon.
20, 00.
April 13, was brot too and boarded by
a French ship of 16 guns, after a chafe of
28 hours—took the Captain and two hands
on board, examined the papers, and found
them to be agreeable to an aft of the Con
veneion of France ; treated them with po
liteness, and detained them two hours, and
then ordered them to proceed on their voy
age. The Commanding Officer told Cap.
Ward that he fhoujd take every American
' vessel bound to or from America, whose pa
pers were not arranged agreeable to the aft
of the Convention.
April 11, the fame ship captured the
brig Juno, Capt. Walker, and ship Char
lotte, both failed in company from Charles
ton, the brig was bound to Hamburg, the
ship to Bremen, and fentthem into Breft—
the Captains and crews was on board the
ship, prisoners at large. They told Captain
Ward the reason of their fending the two
veflels into France, was for want of the
great seals of the United States, and of the
Convention of Frauce, being on their certi
ficates of the lift of men belonging to their
vefTels—all vefTels that are not manned with
real fubjefts of the United Bt?.tes, arc fub
jeft to be sent into France and confifcated.
May 11, long. 55, W. ht. 42, 30, N.
spoke the fao.v Dublin of and fpr
New York, from chit'96'
days, loft her main boom.
May 26, spoke brig American ITerO, of
and from N. York, bound to Cadiz, all well;
Apno'utments by authority.
The Frefirt *nt of the U Stifcs, by 2nd with
the advice and coldest of the %nat=, has ap
nbintrd
CHARGE? C. PWCCNI-Y, of S.Carolina,
Fr< \NCJS D\N \. nf Ma.fn.lwiietts,
JOHN MARSHALL, ofUirßmia,
"nvoys Extraordinary- and M'.niTers Plenipo
tentiary to the Kc'puhlic of France.
COMMUNICATION.
The people approve of the government—
a great majority of the Representatives of
the people in Congress, after three weeks op
position on the part of the oppofers of the
adminiflration, have solemnly afTured the
President of the United States, that they
" believe that the conduft of the govern,
ment has been just and impartial towards
foreign nations." In this Hate of thing 3,
the Executive is maligned by thetqpls of a
foreign faction, because men are appointed
on a million to France who are known to be
attached to the government and its admin
ifixation. Maligned—Nay, charged with
the infamous deiign of involving the country
in war, while profeffing to he friends of
peace ! It is impossible that tils machina
tions of this faction fnould deceive the
people. Such detestable insinuations mull
be spurned with horror. We trull the
practice of nurturing an opposition to
our Government by appointing to office
secret or open enemies to the Constitu
tion, will never be adopted. At the prc
fent moment thi'3 is the game the faftion is
playing—Tbe Government, equally with
the People, muftdefire peace ; it is not pos
sible always to command it—every measure ■
will mod afiuredly be adopted that is con
fillent with the honor, rights, duties and in
terell of the country, to ensure the invalua
ble blessing. But to fend persons of equi
vocal characters, or such as from their predi
leftion for France would facrifice the Inde- j
pendence of the United States, will never j
take place.
PRICES OF STOCKS.
PuiLADELTHtA, M,tX 22.
6 per Cent. 16/io
Deferred 6 per Cent. 15/9 a I.}/
S{ pet Cent.
4i per Cent.
3 per Cent. 10/3 a 6
BANK SHARES.
Bank United States, 18 a 20 per cent, advance.
Pennsylvania, 45 a 27 1-2
North America, 47 4 jo
INSURANCE COMPANY SHARES.
I. C. of N. A. 3J *37 4 per cent, advance.
Pennsylvania, at par.
New-Tori, June 5. <■*
ARRIVED. DAYS.
Brig Dublin Packet, Clay, Havre
de-Grace 69
Iphigenia, Thompson, New-Orleans 20
Love, Orchglad, Nantz 6p
Sch'r Mary and Eleanor, Patterfon,
Halifax 20
Americana, Bell, Wilmington, 6
Fair Trader, OJborn, N. Carolina 5
Sloop Brimo, Burr, Charlejlon 8
Captain OJborn, lajl Thursday, in lat. 37,
8, Jailed twice round a brig or Jhip, bottom
upwards, but could not dfcover her name; Jhehad
a hole cut in her bottom large enough Jor the ad
mijfton of a man—her Jlern painted blue.
The D, Forejlcr, from London to New-
Tori, is taken and carried into Morlaix.
Captain Thompson, in lat. 39, was boarded
bp the Thetis, captain Cochran, company with
the Topaz, cn a cruize. Off the Coxcombs,
was boarded by a Spani/h 44, in company with
two others.
The (hip Sally of New BedfordfromHam
burg'to Havre de Grace, about the Grit of
March, was (handed near the hatbor of Of
fend: the captain, wife and child, with the
crew loft: Part of the cargo saved after the
Sale.
"I he Coramiflloners
carrying into effeA the sixth article cf the
treaty of amity, commerce and navigation, con
cluded between his Britannic majesty and the United
states of America, en the (19th day of November,
1794, having this day constituted tkeir Board, —
pursuant and agreeably to the said treaty, do here
by givejnotice, that they arc ready to proceed ta
nufinefs accordingly ; ana they desire that all claims
under the said article (which so far a&the fame dc
fcrihes the cases thereby provided for, is hereunto
annexed) may be lodged wi:h their Secretary with
out delay.
They further desire that all such claims may not
otily state in what manner the fever a I cafe* come
within the description of the said article, but alio
elpecially set forth ..he nature of the evidence by
which tho claimants refpe&ivoly undertake to fub
itantiate the fame.
ExjraA from the said article,
" Whereas it is alledgcd by divers JLiritilh mer
" chants, and otlyrs his majeftv's fubje&s, that
44 debts to a con fid rable amount, which were bona
u fide contracted, before the peace, still remain
44 owing to them by Citizens or iahabitanta of the
a United States; and that by the operation of va
" rious lawful impediments, iince the peace, not
44 only the full recovery of the said debts has been
delayed, but alfothe value and security tnereof
' have been in fevcral inl'tanccs impaired and ieff
-14 enei, so that by the ordinary course of judicial
'* proceedings, the Britilh creditors cannot now
" obtain and actually have and receive full and
44 adequate compensation for the lo£L»and e'ama
** ges which tney have thereby fuf aincd: It is a
-44 greed that in all such cases where full compenfa
•' tion for such lofTes and damages cannot for what
-44 ever reason be aftu; lly obtained, had and recei
" ved by the said creditors in the ordinary course
of justice, the United States will make full and
* 4 complete ccmpenfation for the fame to the said
" creditor*: but it is (Jittindly underfcoi, that
44 this provision is to extend to such lofTes only a.
u have been occaficned by the lawful impediment
44 atorefaid, and is not to extend to lofies cccaiion
-44 ed by such infolvcncy of the* debtors or other
u causes, as would equally have oprrated to pro
u d\ice such loss, if the said impediments had not
11 exiftcd ; nor to furh lcfTcs or damages r» havi
" been occasioned by the mar.iieft delay, ornegli
44 gcncc, or wilful omiflion of the claimint."
by order of the Board,
Griffith evans,-
• _ Secretary.
Philadelphia, Comtnifltoners' Office,
Na. 3 fouthS'jth hue , May 59,
179?. J
j N-.O TICE.
j TH£ par.'h rfiiip o W> llwm Youo£« John Mi Is,
smd I-, bo Mi !i, jun. Itaokielleis and S'ationers,
der tne firm of W, Youiift, Mi 1 !* Son, is ntu
diflblvi'd by mutual eonfent. All persons indebre-t
to rhe copaftnerfhip are requeued to make pj'ynvnt
to Williafn Young, and ihofc liav i'n<jdemands arc de
fircd to picduce their acc -unts for fe.rtlcmeat.
William Toutig,
j'oon Mi!ls,
jckn Mills, jutii
Philadelphia, June 6.h, 17Q7•
W. YOUNG
Contitu-* the bookrelitnjr anJ ftationa*y b'ulir.rof
the ufua! pluie, wholefaio and retail, where fce hac
now a very large aflfortcnent of
U r i \itns and Printing Papers and Boohs,
Of which catalogue* with fix;} price* affixed afe de<
gtatii-
Wanted,
A person well qualified in the bookfeltfnj* and
tionary bitfl.»efs. Application* will be received till
the full July next, at No. £», fou.h Scc&od-ftrect,
corner of Chtfimt-Ttiect.
June 6. d;p
Tuft published,
By J. Ormrod, No. 41, Chefrmt-ftreet, and to be
bad of the other Book.frllers "Jfo,
An Address to the Graduates in
Medicine :
Del'verbd at a Medical Commencement in the Uni
uerfity of Pennsylvania, held May 12th, 1797. By
John Andrews, D. D. Vice-Provost.
June 6. CD3?
j ~~~ For Freight or Charter,
t- . THE
f Brig Fame,
WW's* FR'aScis KNOX, Miller j
A strong, excellent veflVl, has been juflt (heathed ?nd
ready to receive a cargo. She will carry 1 coo bar
rels, ha* good accommodations lo paffcngcri.
App!y to
Capt. Knox, 6r to
Kearny Wharton.
June 6. 60
An elegant House in Arch-ftrcet.
TO be let and entered on immediately, a and
elegant House at the corner of Arch and Ninth-ftrett.
There are two drawing rooms and one dining room
—the largefl is 31 feet by 26 —and two Ire so con
nected by folding doors as to make but one. Alfd,
five bed rooms, beside five in the garret, well finifh
ed for fervan'*. There are stables and a coach house,
wi;h every convenience for a family. Enquire at Np.
29, in North Seventh Arret, or at No. siß, Arch
itect.
Also to be rented for the summer season, a fmali
reat house and garden about 3 1-2 'miles from the
city, with (tables and coach huufc, Enquire aj above.
June 6. aawflw
L ail son's Circus,
South Fifth-Street. - -
The Public are refpe&fully informed that
The Performances at the NEW CIRCUj
THIS EVENING, June 6,
Will begin by a Grand Parade of Equestrian
Performers of both fexts.
AND
A grand display of Horsemanship,
and other different exercise*, by the troop of
Equestrian Performers, Tumblers, Dancers.
After which will be presented, (never perform
ed in America)
Pierre de Provence,
And the BEAUTIFUL MAGUELONE.
An heroical, hiftoricalPantomine, in three adls,
with new drcflts, military evolutions, battles,
&c. and three new scenes painted by M.Pe
rouany. It will be terminated by a grand
tournament, in which fix combats will be
fought with the fibre, the war axe, the l'word
and the dagger.
Box, one dollar. Pit, half a dollar.
The doers will be opened at half past five
o'clock, and the performances begin precisely
at seven.
N. B. No person can be admitted in the centre
of the Circus, which is exclusively to
the Equestrian Exercises.
No pcrl'on can be admitted without i ticktt,
which will serve for the day only.
* Days of performance, Tueftjay, Thurftl.ty,
and Saturday.
Mr. Lailfon wilhes to take a couple of ap
prentices, of a genteel family, franxun to fifteirt
yi.ars nf age, to whom he will teacfi the Equestrian
art, every thing which belongs to his bufiaefc,
Harrijburgh, Carlijle,
S.btppenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
THE public are requeftcd to take notice, that
the partnership which has f®r Tome time sub
sisted between Mathias Slough of Lancaster, and
William Geer, is now «ilf*lved : but, not as M.
Slough infmuatesto the public without juil cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fub
je& from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 19th
December last. a recital of which is not now deem
ed necelTary. Auy gentleman who wilhes to tc
more circumftantia'ily inf.rmed of the merits of
this bufmefs, by allying to W. Geer may have
the perulal ef- M. biovghS letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfe&ly juftifiable in attaching him
'fell to any other perl'cn in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance fromv Philadelphia to Shippefif
nrg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal lind generous support the
public were pleased to confer on the firft in
this business, \tilliam Geer, in conjunflion with
Meflrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determiiied
toprofecute and carry it on, with every cart, at
tention anddifpatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can pofiibly eiert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
render the passage fefe and commodious, inform
thof® wno wilb to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their leats at
George Weed's, the fijrn of the White Horle,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to ptoceed to i.ancaltcr, Harrilburg,
CarliQe and Shippcnlburg. 'l'hc fare as hitherto
eftablilhed.
For the further accommodation of the public,
a Stage will start every Wednesday from the house
of Samuel Elder, in Harrilburg, airjv« at 9ua
oury in Northumberland county, every Thurlday,
and return from thcace and arrive at Harrilburg
rvery Saturday, so thit p:lfengers destined for
Lancaftcror Philadelphia, may proceed on Mon
days.
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaller. Jan. 17, 1797.
N. B. This Line of Stage* flaru 'from tht
~houfe of William Ferroc, in Uaocaftcr, on every
Tucfday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
ceeding to the wefhvard; and from the hoafe of
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrilburg every Wctbef.
day morning, on the fame evening arnvti at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenlburg, and return*
from thence on every Thursday : performing th«
fame routine daily aa in it* tour from Phihdcl
>(»«. bw(Proposals
for carrying MA IL Sos the
. United States o>i the following
Poji Roads, will be revived
at the General Pojl-Off.ce, in
Philadelphia, until the 31\Jl
day of July next, 'inclufxve.
MAIKE.
1. From B~c*vfr'» or S' oodic by JVKicliias, Chan
alert riwr and Columbia, to Nariagu.igu.oHi.e
a w«V..
Leav-' Brewer's every Saturday at 2 F M, and
atrive jt Na(rraglilgli» tj*,e f- r - c Tucfday I'y 6 f
M—JbiKnfy, leave NarraguagW ev ry Wednes
day i£ 6 A U, and ar tvp at Brewer's the next Sa
tnrda* byifliM- a - .
2. From Warrnguagjs by CJouldfDoroup;h, Sulli
van/Trenton, BiuchJl, CulUne, Pcnobf< ot, Euckf
ron,' Frankfort, Pr"tMp«il and Bclfaii to Duck-
Trap-once a weik.
Leave Narraguagus etery Wednesday by 6 a
»». and arrive at Duck Trap tke r.ext Saturday by
10 AB. Returning. Leave Deck Trap every Sa
turday by if h and arrive « Narraguagus the
next Tnefday by 6 r M
3. From Duck Trap by Camden, Thomafton,
Warren, Waldoborough, New cattle, Wifcaffet,
fcuth, Brunfwick, Freeport and North Yarmouth
to Portland once a week.
Lsave Duck Trap every Saturday by » r M, and
arrive ct Portland the next l'ucfday by 6 p M. Re
turning. Leave Portland every Wedr.elday by 6
a M.and arrive atDttck Trap the next. Saturday by
lo A M."
4. From Portland by BidMord, Welles and
York, to portfmouth.
April H to October 15. Leave Portland every
Monday, Wednesday and Friday by 6au, and ar
rive at Portsmouth the lame days by 6 p m. Return
ing. Leave portsmouth every Monday, Wednes
day and Friday at 9 rM, and arrive at Portland on
the next day by 6. p m.
Ochhtr 15 to April IJ. Leave Portland every
Monday KU'i Thurlday at 6 a m, and arrive at
Portsmouth on Tuesday and Friday by 10 a m. Re
turning. Leave Portsmouth every Tuesday and
Friday at 1 pm, and arrive at Portland every
■Wednesday and Saturday at 5 p M
-s..From Portland by North-Yarmouth, Free
pfcrt, Brunfwick, Eath, Wifcaffet,Drtfden, Pittf
ton awd Hallowell Hook to Hallowell court house,
once a wc^k..
Leave Portland every Friday at 3 A. M,and ar
rive at Hallowell court-house the next Saturday by
7 P M. Returning. Leave Hallowell court-house
every Wednesday by 5 A M, and arrive at Pott
land oil Thursday by 6 P M.
6. From Wifcaffu by Dresden; Pittfton, Hallo
well Hoot, Hallowell court-houfc, Winthrop,
Monmouth, Green, New-Gloucester and Gray to
Portland once a week.
Leave Portland every Monday by 6 A M, and
arrive at Wifcaffet on Wednesday noon. Return
ing. Leave. Wifcaffet on Wednesday at 3 P M.and
arrive at Poitland on Friday by 6 PM.
7. From Hallowell Hook by Vaffalborongh,
Fort Halifax, Wicflow, Fairfield and Canaan to
No fridge wok onoe a week.
Leave Hallowell Hook every Wednesday at 11
A M, and arrive at Norridgewcck cn I'hurlday
by 6 P Ivl Returning. Leave Norridgewcck on
Monday at iP M, and arrive at Hallowell Hook
on Tuefdayby 6 P M.
8- From Hallowell Hook to Farmington on San
dy river once in two week«.
Leave Hallowell Hook every other Wednesday
by 8 AM, and arrive at Farmington by 6 P M.
lUtuming. Leave Farmington every other Thurs
day at 8 A M, and arrive at Hallowell Hook by 6
PM.
9. From Portland by Falmouth, Gorham, Bux
ton, Standilh, Limerick, Parfonfield, Shapleigh
slid Ltbanon to Berwick, once in two weeks.
Leave Portland every other Monday at 8 A M,
arid arrive at Berwick on Wednesday by noon.
Leave Berwick every other Wednesday at J P
M, and arrive at Portland on Friday by 6 P M.
10. From Standilh by FliliftOWn, Fryburg aca
demy,Conway and Tamworth to Sandwici in New
Hampshire once in two week-.
Leave Standilh every other Tusfday by 8 A M,
and arrive at Sandwich on Wednesday by 6 PM. Re
turning. Leave Sandwich every other Thursday at
8 A M, and arrive at Standilh 011 Friday by 6
PM.
11. From Wells by Waterboro', Sanford, Dough
ty's Falls, Berwick and Dover, to Portlmouth ciice
a v*eek. ,
Leave Well* every Tu -foay by 6 A M, and ar
rive at Portsmouth on Wednesday by ic A M. Re
turning. Leave Portlhiouth every Wednesday by
aP M, and arrive at Wells aext Thursday by 6
PM.
NEW-HAMPSHIRE.
Xa. From Portsmouth by Dover, Rochester and
Moultonboroilgh to Plymouth, returning by New-
Hampton, Meredith, Gilmtntown, Nottingham
and Durham to Portsmouth one- in two week?.
Leave Portsmouth every other Wednesday by 8
A M, and arrive at Plymouth the next Friday by 6
PM. Ret inning. Receive the mail at Plymouth
every other Saturday by 8 A M, and return to
Portfnioutiv the aext Tuefdayby 4 PM.
Nnte. " The pi ft is to go and return on this route
alternately."
ij* From Portsmouth by Exeter, Chefler, Lon
donderry, Amherll, Peterborough and Marlbo
rough to Keene, once a week.
Leave Portsmouth every Thursday by 8 A M,
arrive at Exeter by one P M, at Cheller by 4 f M,
assd at Keene on Saturday by 4 P M. Returning.
Leave Keene every Monday by 8 A M, ajrive at
Cheller on Tikfday by 4 P M, at Exeter on Wed
nesday by 9 A M, and at Poitfmouth by 4 P M.
14. From Concord by Plymouth to Haverhill,
once a week.
Leave Concord every Menday by 6 A M, arrive
at Plymouth on Tuefdayby 3P M.and at Haver
hill on Wednef4ay by 4 P M • Returning. Leave
Haverhill every Thursday by 8 A M, arrive at
on Friday by 9 A M, and at Concord on
£-.urday by 4 PM.
15. From ixcter to Hampton Falls, three times
a week from April lj to October 15, and twice a
week from Oilobcr 15 to April ij.
Leave Hampton falls in one hour after the arriv
al after the arrival of the mail frem Bolton, and
deliver it at Exeter in two hcuri, remain at Exetar
two hours and return to Hampton Falls in fix
i>o«r»from th« time of leaving it.
MASSACHUSETTS.
■l6. From Newburyport, Kingflon,
Eteter, New Market and Durham to Dover once
a week.
Leave Newburyport every Monday by 10 A M,
arrive at Dover on Wednesday by noon. Return
ing. Leave Dover on Wednesday by 3 P M, and
arrive at Newburyport on Friday by 3 P M.
17. From Salem to Gloucetler once a week.
Leave Oloncefter every Wedcrfday by 7 A M,
and arrive at Salem by 11A M. Returning. Leave
hslcm every Wednesday by 1 P M, and arrive at
Glouceller by 6 P M.
Note. Should this mail he carried in a stage it i>
to be carried a< oftin as the flage runs, the hourt
delired to be Dated in the propofala.
>B. Trom Salem to Marblchcad three times a
week. Leave Salem every Monday, Wednesday,
and Friday immediately after the arrival of the
mail from Boflon, and deliver it at Marblihcad in
one hour and a half, leave Marblchcad in one
hour and a half and return to Salem in two hours.
19 From Boflon by Audover, Haverhill and
Cheller to Concord in New Hampshire once a
week.
Leave Concord cv, ry Menday by 6 A M, arrive
at Chcfler by l V M, and arrive at B .Hon on
Tnrfday by 4 9 "t. Rrtitrning. Ltlvs feofton evety
Friday by 9 A M, arrive at Clv.fi er on Saturday by
11 A M, and arrive at Concord 0:1 Saturday by 6
PM.
10. Ftom Bodon 'oy Concord, Lancader, Leo
minfter \i:d Alhburnham to Marlborough, Keeno
and Walpole in N'W Harr.plhiro.
I.eave 801 l on every Wu.lncfJay and Saturday by
6 A M, and arrive tt Leoaiiatler by 7 P M.
Leave LeominClcr every Thursday by 6 A M,
arriveatKeene by 9 PM,at lA'ilprd: onFrida/by
nA M. Returning. Le iv« Walpole .very Satur
day or Sundtiy by 5 A M, arrive at Keene by 9
AM, and at Leomirftrr in the evening, l.eive
Leominfler every Monday and Thursday by 6
a m and arrive at Boston by 6 P »■
11. From Boiioo hy Quiiiccy, Hinpham, Hano
ver, Plymowtii, Sandwieti, Barnilable, Yarmouth,
Dennis, Harwich and Chatham to Truro once a
week
Leave Boflon every Thursday by 3 P m, arrive
at Sandwich on Friday by 6 r m , and at Truro the
next Sunday by 6a m. Returning. Leave Truro
every Monday by 8 a m, arrive at Sandwich on
Tuei'day by 7 t M, and at Boflon on Thurlday by
10 a Wt.
"22. From Sandwich by Falmouth and Holmes j
Hole to Edgartown once a week
Leave Sandwich every Saturday hy 1 r m, and
arrive at Edgarton on Monday by 11 a m. Retim
ing. Leave Edgarton »n Monday by 2 p m, and
arrive at Sandwich on Tuesday by noon.
13. From Boston by Sharon, Mansfield, Norton
and Taunton to Newport once a week.
Leave Boston every Monday by 6 am, and ar
rive at Newport byb r m,oqTuefday. Returning.
Leave Newport every Wednesday by 8 a m, and
arrive at Boston on Thursday by 6pm.
24. From Boston by Chariefton, Medford, Wo
burn, Blllerica, Chelnssford and Tyngboroegh to
Atnherft once a week.
Leive Boston every Thjirfday by 10 a m, and
arrive at Amherft the next Saturday noon. Re
turning. Leave Amherft every Monday noon, and
arrive at Boston on Wednesday by 3 r m.
sf. From Boston by Raynham, Bridgewater,
Randolph and Taunton to New Bedford.
from May ito Stvember I. Leave Boston every
Monday, wednefdayand Friday atio p m, arrive at
Taunton the next day by 11 a m, and at New Bed
ford by 8 t M. Returning. Leave New Bedford
ever j Sunday, Tucfday and ThuTday by 10 p M,
arrive at Taunton the next day by 11 a m, and at
Boston by 8 p m
From November Ito nay 1. I.eave Boston eve
ry wednesday and Friday at 9 a m, arrive at Taun
ton by 8 p m, and at New Bedford on Thursday &
Saturday by t p'm. Returning. Leave New
Bedford every Monday and wednesday by 9 » m.
arrive at Trunton by 8 ? m, and at Boston on
Tuesday and Thursday.by 7 p m.
26. From New Bedford to Nantucket, twice a
week from November Ito May 1. Leave New
Bedford every Friday and Monday by 6 a m, ar
rive at Nantucket in the evening. Leave Nantuc
ket every Saturday and Tuesday by 10 a m, and
arrive at New Bedford in the evening.
From May Ito November I. Leave New Bed
ford every Monday, wednesday and Friday by 10
a m, and arrive at Nantucket in Phe evening. Re
turning. Leave Nantucket every Tue day, Thurs
day and Saturday at 8 a M.and arrive at New bed
ford in the evening,' winds and tide permitting.
17. From Taunton by Dighton and Stimcrfet to
warren once a week.
I.eave Taunton every wednesday by 5 a m, and
arrive at warren by 10 a m. Leave warren by I
p M, and arrive at Taunton by 6 r m.
28. From Boston byDedham, Providence, Plain
field, Norwich, New London, Saybrook, Killing
worth, Guilford and New Haven to New
tfiree times a week.
From May I to November I. Leave Boston eve
ry Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday by lo a m,
arrive at Providence by 6 p m, arrive at Norwich
on wednesday, Friday and Monday by noon, at
New London by 3 p m, arrive at New Haven on
Thursday, Saturday and Tuesday by noon, at Stan
ford by 9 r m, and at New York on Friday, Mon.
day and wednesday by noon. Returning. Leave
New York every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday
by 10 a m, arrive at New Haven on wednesday,
Friday and Monday by 2 p m, at Norwich on
Thursday, Saturday and Tuesday by noon, at Pro
vidence by 8 p M, and at Boston oa Friday, Mon
day and wednesday by I p m.
November Ito May X. Leave Boston every
Tuefiay, Thursday and Saturday by 9 A M, ar
rive at providence the next days by 9 a m, at New
London every Thursday, Saturday and Tues
day by noon, at New Haven on Friday, Monday
and wednesday by 3 r m, at Stratford by % p m,
and arrive at New York on Monday, wednesday
and Friday by 11 a m. Returning. Leave New
York every Saturday, Tuesday and Thursday by 11
a m, arrive at Stratford the next days by 8 pm, at
New Haven on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday
by 9 a m, at New London on wednesday, Friday
and Monday by 3 p m, at providence, Thursday,
Saturday and Tuesday by 4 p m, at Boston on Fri
day, Monday and wednesday by 3 pm.
29. Frotn Boston by Dedham, Mendon, pomfret
and Tolland to Hartford once a week.
Leave Boston every Thursday by 7 a m , arrive
at Hartford the next Saturday by 6p m. Return
ing. Leave Hartford every Monday by 8 A M,
and arrive atßoftoa on wednesday by j p».
30. From New Bedford to Newport once a
week.
Leave New Bedford every Thursday by 6 a m,
and'arrive at Newport by 4p m. Leave Newport
every Friday by 8 a m, and arrive at New BedforJ
by 5 p m.
• jr. From woacefter by Rutland, rjterfham and
Northfield to Brattlcborough once a week.
Leave worccfter every Tuesday by 1 p m. and
arrive at Brattleborongh on wednesday by 6 p m.
Returning. Leave Brattleborough every Thurs
day by 6 a m, and arrive at worcester on Friday
noon.
32. From Breokfield by Belchertown, North
ampton, worthington.pittsfield and New Lebanon
to Albany
Leave Brookficld every Tuesday and Friday by
jam, arrive at Northampton by 6p m. Leave
Northampton every wednesday and Saturday at 5
a m, arrive at pittsfield by I P M, and at Albany
on "ITiurfday and Monday by 7 r m. Returniug.
Leave Albany every wednesday and Saturday at 5
A m, arrive at pittsfield by 5 r m, at Northamp
ton on Thursday and Monday by 7 p m, and ar
rive at Brookfield on Friday and Tuesday by 4
P M.
33. From Springfield by WeMeld and Stock
bridge to Kinderhook once a week.
May 1 to November 1. Leave Springfield eve
ry Tuefdayby l p M, arrive at Kinderhtok on
Thursday by 6 P M. Returning. Leave Kinder
hook every Friday by 9 a m, arrive at Stock
bridge by 3p m. Leave Stockbridge on Monday
by 6 am, and arrive at Springfield by 7 r m.
November I to nay I. Leave Springfield every
wednesday at 6 a m, and arrive at Kinderhook on
Thursday by 2 rm. Returning. Leave Kinder
hook on T>.urfday by 4 r m, arrive at Stockbridge
on Friday noon. Leave Stockbridge every Tues
day at (t a m , and arrive at Springfield by 7 r m .
34. From Sufficld by WeftSpiiogfield,Noiihamp.
too, Greenfield, Brauleboiough, Weftminller, Wal
pole, 1 *harle(lown and Windfoi lo Haaover twice a
week.
Leave Suffield every Tuesday and Friday at am,
arrive at Northampton by 1 r m, at Walpoieon Wed
nesday and Saturday by $ p m, at Wind for on
day and Thursday by a r m, and at Hafeovcr by 7 r
m. Returning. Leave Hanover every Turfday and
Friday by 6 a m . arrive at Wirrdfor by 1 r m , at Wal
pole on Wedpefday and Saturday by 7 p m, and at
Northampton on Thurlday and Monda) byjioon, and
at Sufßeld by 7 f m.
35. From Hanover by Ot ford and Haverhill, to
Newbury once a week.
Leave Hanover every Wednesday by 6 a m, arrive
at Haveibill by 4 r m, and at Newbury by 5 r m.
Rtf.uining. Leave Ntwbu'y 5:
m, arrive, at Haver hill by $ a m, auciat by
6 pm.
VtRMONT.
36. From Windsor, by Royaiilon, Randolph, Wil
liam ft on and Montpcliei to -Burlington once in two
weeks.
Leave Windsor every other Thursday by 6 a m :
and arrive at Bur!ingtor<the ncxtSaturOay by 6 ? •
Returning. Leave Burlingtoti every *other Monday
by 6 a m, and arrive at Windlo: on Wednclday by 6
i M
37. From Windsor to Ru land o cei week.
Leave Rutland every Monday bv 7 am, and arrive
at Windsor on Tuelday bv 6 ?M. R'turning.
Lrave Windsor every Wednesday bv 6 A M, and ar
rive at Rutland on Thursday by 6 r M.
38. From Burlington by Vergehnea and Middle
bury to Rutland once a week.
Leave Burlington every T' urfdav by 8 a m, and
arrive at Rutland on Saturday by 6P M» Returning.
Leave Rutland every Monday by 8 a m. and artive at
Burlington on Wednesday noon.
39. From Rutland by M«nchefter, Bennington,
Lanfinf»burg and Troy to Albany.
Leave Rutland every Monday at 8 a M,and arrive (
at Albany the next Wednesday by 6p f-fc Return- ]
ing. Leave Albany every Thursday by 8a m, and |
arrive at Bennington by 7p m. Leave Bennington
on Friday by 8 a m, and arrive at Rutland on Satur
day by 7 p m-
R HOD E-ISLAND. \
40. From Providence by Briitol and Warren to
Newport.
Leave Providence every Monday, Wednesday and
Friday by 7 a m, and arrive at Newport the fame
days bv 5p m. Returning. Leave Newport every
Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday by 8 am, and ar
rive at Providence by 4 f m.
41. From Providence by East Greenwich, New- 1
port, South Kingston, Westerly and Stomngton Point
to New London once a week.
Leave Providence every Tuesday by 8 a n, and
arrive at Newport by 6 pm, leave Newport every
Wednesday by 6 a m, and arrive at New London on
Thursday by noon. Returning. Leave New Lon
don on Thursday by 3 p m, and arrive at Newport on
Friday by 6 pm, leave Newport on Monday by 7 A
m, and arrive at Providence by 5 p m.
CONNECTICUT.
42. From, Hartford by Windham to Norwich
once a week.
L ave Hartford every Tuesday by 6 a M,and ar
rive at Norwich by 7p m. Returning. Leave Nor
wich every Monday by 6 A m, and arrive at Hartford
by 7 P m.
43. From Hartford by Middletown, Modus Land
ing and Colchester to New-London, once a week.
Leave Hartford every Tuesday at t p m, and arrive
at New London on Wednesday by 7p m. Return
ing. Leave New London every Thursday by n a
m, and arrive at Hartford on Friday by 7 p m.
44. From Hartford by New Harttoid, Canaan,
Sheffield and Hillfdale to Hudson -onee a week
JLeave Hartford eveiy Monday at 2 p m, and arrive
at Hudson on Wednesday by 11 am. Returning.
Leave Hudson every Wednesday at 2 p m, and arrive
at Hartford on Friday by 11 AM.
45. From Hartfoidby Litchfield, New Milford,
Ntwiown, Danbury and Ridgefield to New York
once a week.
Leave Hartford every Monday by 10 a m, arrive at
Litchfuid by 7 p m, at New Milford on Tuesday by
11 a m, and at New York on Thursday bv 8 a m.
Reiurnrng. Leave New Yoikevery Thuifday by 4
p m, arrive at New Milford on Saturday noon, at
Litchfield by 7 p m, and at Hartford ou Monday by
8 am.
46. From New-Haven by Derby, Southbury,
Woodbury, Bethlem, Litchfield and Goihen, to Ca
naan, once a week.
Leave Canaan every Monday noon, arrive at Litch
field by 7 PM, and at New Haven on Wednesday by
10 am. Leave New Haven every Wednesday by 2
p m, arrive at Litchfield oa Thursday noon, and at
Canaan by 7 p m.
47. From New York by White Plains, Bedford,
Fredericklown, Dover, Shar n, Sheffield, Great
Barrington, Stockbridge, Pittsfieid and Wiiliamfton
to Beunington
Leave New York every Monday, Wednesday and
Friday at 5 A M, the next Wednesday, Friday and
Monday at 6 PM. Returning. Leave Bennington
every 1 hurfday, Saturday and Tuesday by 5 A M,
and arrive at New V ork the next Saturday, Tuesday
and Thursday by 6 P M.
If the stages run but once a week on this route\he
mail is to leave New York every Monday at 5 A M,
arrive at Bennington on Wednesday by 6 P M. Leave
Bennington on Thursday by 5 A M, and arrive at
New York on Saturday by 6 P M.
48. From New York by Yonkers, Peekfkill, Fifli
kill, Poughkeepfie, Rhinebeck, Redhook, Clermont,
Hudson, Claverac and Kinderhook to Albany three
times a week.
Leave New York every Monday Wednesday and
Friday by 2 P M, arrive at Tarrytown by 8 P M.
Leave Tarrytown every Tuesday, Thursday and Sa
turday at 5 A M, arrive at Poughkeepfie by 7 P M.
Leave Poughkeepfie Wednesday, Friday and Sunday
by 5 AM, arrive at Kinderhook by 7P M. Leave
Kinderhook every Thursday, Saturday and Monday,
at 5'A M, and arrivc'at Albany by 8A M. Return
ing. Leave Albany Thursday, Saturday and Mon
day by 3 P M, arrive at Kinderhook by 7 P M.
Leave Kinderhook Friday, Sunday and Tuesday, at
5 AM, arrive at Poughkeepfie by 7 p m. Leave
Poughkeepfie Saturday, Monday and Wednesday, at
5 AM, arrive at Tarrytown by 7 PM. Lzave Tarry
town every Snnday, Tuesday and Thursday, at 5 a
m, arrive at New Vork at 11 a m.
49. From Albany by Troy end Lanfmgburgh, to
Salem, once a week.
Leave Albany every Tuesday at 8 am, arrive at
Lanfingbnrgh by 10 a m, and at Salem by 4 p m. Re
turning. Leave Salem every Monday, by 8a m, and
arrive at Albany by 5 p m (
50. From Salem by Granville, Fairhaven, Ver
gennes, Bason-Harbour, WilJfboro', Peru and Pitts
burgh, to Champlain-town, once in two weeks,
LeavcSalem every other Wednesday by 5 a m, and
arrive at Plattfburgh the next Sunday by 5p m. Re
turning. Leave Plattfburgh every other Monday at 8
a m, and arrive at Salem the next Friday by 4 p m.
51. From Lanfingburgh by Waterford, Stillwater,
Fort Edward, Whitehall landing and Fairhaven, to j
Rutland, in Vermout.
Leave Lanfingburgh every Thursday by noon, and
arrive at Rutland the next Saiurdav by 6 p m. Re
turning. Leave Rutland every Monday by noon,
and arrive at Lanfingburgh on Thursday by »o a m.
52. From Albany by Schenectady, Ti ipes Hill,
Conajoharry> German Flatts, Old Fort Schuyier and
Whitestown to Rome. The times dejired tobejlated in
the prof ofttls. )
53. From Schene£bdy by Billtown Springs and j
Glenfbridge to Sardy Hill once a week.
Leave Scheneftady every Tuesday by 6 a m. and
arrive at Sandy Hill by 4 p m . JLeave Sandy Hill oa
Wednesday by 6 am, and arrive at Schene&ady by
4 PM.
54 From Tripeftiill to Johnfton once a week.
Leave Tripefhill in one hour after ihe mail arrives
from Albany ou Tuesday, arrive at JohnftoA fn two
hours, stay at Johnfton two hours, and return 10
Tripefhillin two hours.
55. From Conajoharry by Cherry Valley to Coo
peritown twice a week.
Leave Conajoharry every Wednesday and Saturd;>
at 6 am, and arrive at Cooperftown by 2 p m.
Leave Cooperftown every Tnrfday and Friday by 10
a m. and arrive at Conajoharry by 6 t m.
56. From Coopeiilown by Butternuts and Oxford
10 Union once in two weeks.
Leave Union every other Monday by 10 a m, ?nd
arrive at Cooperftown on Wednesday by 5 PM. Re
turning. Leave Coope» flown every oliier Thursday
by 6 a M,and arrive at Union on Saturday by 3 p m.
57. From Old Fort Schuyler by Cincinnati 10
Oxloid Academy once in two weeks.
Leave Old Fort Schuyler every other Thursday by
6 am, aud arrive at Oxford on Friday noon. Re
luming. LeaveOx'ord every other Friday by 2 pn,
and arrive at Old Fort ScUuyler on Saturday by 7
p M.
58 From Rome by to Rotterdam once
in two weeks.
Leave Rome every other Thurfdry by ic a M,and
arrive at Rotterdam by 6 pm. Returning. Leave
Rotterdam every other Friday by 9 a m, and arrive
at Rome by 6 P M.
£9, From Rome by Oneida, Onordaigui,Scipfo
and Geneva 10 Kacandaigua ocec a week.
Lt*vt Rome every Thuituay by to A M, and ar
rive at Kanaiiciai&ua the next Monday by 6 AM.
Leave every M mdav by 10 A. M, and
arrive at Rome the net*. Thuffday by 8 4 M.
60. From, FLmaodaigua by Hartfoiu to Niagara
once in two weeks.
Leave every>otf>er Nfonday by io A
M, and arrive at Niagara the next Wednesday bv 7 1*
M. Rettitnldg. Le*t»e Niagara e*t.y other Friday
by 6 A Mi and arrive at Kan<»idaigua the next Mon
day by 6 A M.
6t. From Rhinebeck by SHawan<mnk,
Gofben, Hamburg, Newtown, Hack
etftown and Morriftown to Newaik, to return Irom
Morriftown by Boonetoni Rockaway and Sparta to |
Newtowu once a week.
Leaye Rhinebeck evety Friday by 5 A M,arrive at
Goftien on Sa«urday at 7 A M, at Newtown by 7 P
M, at Hacketftown and M-iuiftown on Sunday, and
at Newark on Monday by 10 AM. Returning.
Leave Newark every Monday by si P .\l, arrive a:
Booneton and Rockaway on Tuefday,at Newtow.i by
7 PM, at Gofhen on Wednesday at £ PM, and at
Rhinebeck on Thursday by g P M.
62. From New Vork by Ha-kcnfack, Paramus,
New Antrim and Chester to Goftien once a week.
Leave New York every Friday at 7 AM, arid ar
rive at Golhcn on Saturday by 6 P M» Returning.
Leave Golheu every Tuesday at 6 A M, and arirve at
New York on Wednesday by 6 P M.
63. From FtlhkiM by Ncwburg and New Windsor
to Gofhen once a week.
Leave Fiftikill every Wednesday by 7 A M, and
arrive at Gofhen by 5 P M, Leave Gofhc-n every
Tuesday at 7 A M, and arrive at Fifhkill by 5 P M.
64. From New Y*rk by jasnaica, Huntington,
Smithtown, Brookhavcn, Suffolk, Southampton 6c
Budgehampton t« Sagharbour once a week.
Leave New Tork every Tharfday at 10 A M, and
arrive at Sagharbour the next Saturday by 6 PM.
Leave Sagharbour every Monday at 8 A M, and ar
rive at New York on Wednesday by 5 P M.
NEIV-JERSt Y.
65. From Wood bridge to Araboy three times a
week.
Leave Wood bridge every Monday, Wednesday 61
Friday at 8 A M, and arriveat Amboy by <J A M. j
Leave Amboy at noon and arrive at Woodbridge by 1
1 PM.
66 From Trenton by AIL-n town, Monmouth \
court-house, Shrewsbury, Middletown Point, Spotf
wood, New Brunfwick, Somerset, N6w Gcrmanton,
Pittfton and Flemington to Trenton once a week.
Leave Trentou every Tuesday by 10 A M, and re
turn to Trentou the next Tuesday by 6 A M.
67. From Philadelphia by launton and Aifian to
Tucker ton once in two weeks.
Leave Philadelphia every other Wednesday by 3
P M, arrive at Tuckerton on Thursday by 6 P M.
Leave Tuakerton every other Tuesday by 6 A M, and
arrive at Philadelphia on Wednesday by 9 A M.
68. From Philadelphia by Woodbury, Swcdefbo
rough, Wood How 11 and Salem to Bridgetown once a
week.
Leave Philadelphia every Wednesday afternoon by
3 o'clock, and arrive at Bridgetown on Friday by a
PM. Leave Bridgetown on Saturday at 8 AM, and
arrive at Philadelphia pn Wednesday at 9 A M.
69* From Philadelphia by jenkintown, Plumftead
and Pipers by Bethlehem to Eaftou once a week.
Leave Philadelphia every Wednesday by 10 A M,
and arrive at Eafton on Thursday by 2P M. Return
ing. Leave Eafton every Monday at 9A M, and ar
rive at Philadelphia 011 Tuesday by 3 P M.
70. From Plumftead by Pipers and Alexandria to
Pittfton once a week.
Leave Plumftead every Thursday by 5 AM, arrive
at Pittfton by 11 A M. Leave Pittfton by 1 P M,
and arrive at Plumftead by 7 P M.
71. From Eafton to Wilkefbarre once a week.
Leave Eafton every Thursday by 3 P M, and arrive
at Wilkefbarre on Saturday noon. Returning. Leave
Wiikefbarrre every Tuesday noon, and arrive at Ea
fton every Thursday by noon.
72. From Philadelphia by Norriftown, Trap,
Pottfgrove, Reading, Lebanon and Harrifburg to
Carlisle.
October 15 to April 13. Leave Philadelphia every
Tuesday and Thursday at sunset, arrive at Reading
every Thursday and Saturday at 4 PM. Leave Read
ing every Friday at 8 AM, arrive at Carlifte every
Sunday by 11 AM. Returning Leave Carlifte eve
ry Sunday by 2 P M, arrive at Reading on Tuesday
by 4 P M, leave Reading every Wednesday aud
Monday by 9 A M, and arrive at Philadelphia on
Thursday and Tuesday by 4 P M.
ry Wednesday and Friday at 8 A M, arrive at Read
ing on Thursday aud Saturday by ii AM. Leave
Reading every Thursday noon, and arrive at Carlisle
the next Saturday by 11 A M. Returning. Leave
Carlisle every Monday noon, arrive at Reading on
Tuesday by 7P M. Leave Reading every Wednes
day and Monday at 8 A M, and arrive at Philadel
phia on Thursday and Tuesday by 9 A M
73. From Reading by Hamburg. Sunbury and
Northumberland to Louifburg once a week.
Leave Reading every Eriday at 6 A M, and arrive
at Louifburg on Monday by 10 A M. Returning.
Leave Louifburg every Tuesday noon, and arrive at
Reading on Thursday by 4 P M.
74. From Harrifburg by Petersburg, Millerftown,
Thompfontown, Mifßmlown, Lou'ftown, Hunting
don, Alexandria, Centre Furnace, Belle Fount, Milel
burg, Aaronfburg, Mifflioburg, Louifburg, Northum
berland, Sunbury and Halifax to Harrifburg once in
two weeks.
Leave Harrifburg every Saturday by 6 AM, wait
ing at each poft-oflice which shall be eftablilhed on
the route, two hours, and return again to Harrifburg
the next Monday by 8 A &L, I
75. From Somerset by Connellfville to Union once
a week.
Leave Pittfburg every Friday noon and arrive at
Wheeling on Saturday by noon. Returning. Leave
Wheeling every Thursday by 9 A M, and arrive at
Pittlburgon Saturday by io A M.
75 Leave Somerset every Thursday by 5 A. M. arrive
at Union 4P. M. Leave Union every Fridav by
8 A. M and arm* at by 7 P. M.
76. From Pittfburg by Cannon fburg, Wajhmgton
and Weft Liberty to Wheeling once a week.
77 From Preilon by Wafliington to Cincinnati
once a week.
Leave Preston every Friday at noon, arriveatWafh
ington by 8 P M, and at Cincinnati the next Monday
noon. Returning. Leave Cincinnati every Tuesday
at 6A M, and arrive at Washington 011 Wednesday
by 5P M. Leave Washington at 9 P M, a;id arrive
at l'refton on Friday bv ti-j A M.
KENTUCKY.
78 From Walbington by Springfield, Bourbon,
Lexington, Frankfort and Harrodfburg to Danvilie
once a week.
Leave Washington every Saturday by 8 A M, and
arrive at Danville the ne*t Monday by 5P M. Re
turning. Leave Danville every Tuesday by 8 AM,
and arrive at Lexington on Wednesday noon, and at
Washington on Thursday by 6 P M.
79. From Danviljc to Lcu fville by Beardftown
onee in two wreks.
Leave Danville evtry other Tuesday bv noon, ar
rive at Lr;uifville the next Thursday by 3 PM.
Returning. Leave Louisville every other Frulav by
6 // M, and arrive at Danville on Saturday by 6 P M
80. From Danville by Stamford and Cumberland
Gap to Moffat's store in Tcnneifre once a week.
Leave Danville every Monday at 2 P M. and arrive
at Moffat's store the next Thursday bv 6 PM. Leave
Moffat's store every Friday bv 6 A M, and arrive at
Danville on Monday by io A M
TENNESSEE.
B*. From Knoxvilie by South Weft Point and
Fori Blount and C«aig Fort co salhville once in two
weeks-
Leave Knoxvilie every other Tuesday by 8 A M,
arid aiitve at Nashville the next Monday by 9 A M.
Re:uminp. Leive Nafnvilie every other Monday by
3 PM, and anive at Knoxvi lie- the next Saturday ttv
8 P M.
MARYLAND AND VIRGINIA.
82. From Baltimore by Eliieot's Lower Mills,
Montgomery Cou r t House, Charlafbprg, Luc fburg,
Middieburgand Wanenton to c. h. once a
week. k
Leave Baltimore every Monday noon, arrive at
Leciburg on Tuesday evening, and at Culpeper Cou t
Houle the next Thursday noon. Returning. Leave
Cujpcpcr Court Hcufe every Friday noou and arrive
at Baltiinoie the next Monday by 9 A M.
83. From Alice's Ffelh by Ludlow's Ferry to Port
Conway in.Virginia one? in two weeks,
Lave Allen's orfcer Monday by 6 A .VI,
and arrive at P-n Conway by 6P M. Re urninj.
Leave Pjrt Cwrfway every other Tuesday by 8 A M»
and arrive at Alien's 7PM.
84. From >va l>y Petty John to to Clarkf
bury once in two week*.
Leave every other Monday by 5 A
M. ana arrive at Cfe»rkfb«»rg bv 5 PM. Reiuraing,
Leave Clarklburg e-ciy otfccr Tuesday by 8 A M, and
arrive ai by £ P M.
Bj. From Todd* to King and Oueen, c" h. one© a
week.
Leave Toddi every Thursday by u A M, ariive at
-King and Queen by it -A M Leave King and Queen
at 1 PM, and arrive at Todd* by 6 P M.
86. From Halifax by Danville to CafweM court
houie once in two weeks.
Leave Halifax couru'ioufe every other Tuesday by
9P M, arrive at Catwell court houfeihe next Wed
nesday by 6P M. Retun.iog. Ltave C*f*eJl C.
every ot.ier *£hurfdi*y by 6 A M, and arrive at Halifax
court-noufc on Friday b-y noon.
87. From Peterfburgh. by SulTea court hcufe
and Southampton court houfc to South Quay, one*
in Iwo weeks.
Leave Petsrfburg other Wednesday t>y 6
A M and arrive at South Quay on by 6
I 3 M* Returning. Leava i™uth every oihef'
Monday by 6 A M and arrive at Pctcribarg on
Tuesday by 3 PM.
NORTH. C ARQLINA, &
88. From Newbern to Beaufort and Swanfboto*
once in two weeks, the mail to go alternately.
Lvave Newbern ev«ry other Thursday by 6 A;
M, remain at each of the of&eei two hours, anct
return to Newbern the next
89. From Wilmington by Georgetown to Char-'
lefton, once a week.
Leave Wilmington every Monday by 6 AM
and arriv* at Charleston the next Thursday by 10
AM. Leave CharieAon every Thursday by 3 P
M and arrive at Wilmington tke next Suncuy by
5 P M.
90 From Norfolk by Kempfville, Great Bridge
and North Weft River Bridge to Jonefboro', once
in two Meeks.
Leave Norfolk every other Wednesday at 9 A
M and arrive at Jonefboro* on Thursday by 7 PM.
Returning. Leave Jomfboro* every other Monday
by io A M and arrive at Norfolk on Tuesday by 6
P M.
91. From North Well River Bridge by New Le
banon to Elizabeth city, once in two weeks.
Leave North Welt River Bridge every other
Friday by 6 A M add arrive at Elizabeth city by
6 PM. Leave Elizabeth city ev_ry other Satur
day by 6 A M, and arrive at N. W. river bridge
by 6 r M.
91. From Salem, N. C. by Betkania, Flower•
Gap Grayfoncourt-houfe and Auftinville toWythe
court-house once in two wc*ks.
L eave Salem every other Saturday by 6 A M,
and arrive at Wythe c. h. the next Mod. by 6 r M.
Leave Wythe court-house every other Tuesday by
9 AM, and arrive at Salem the next Thursday by
6 PM.
93. From Murfreefboro' by South Quay to Suffolk
once a week.
From Murfreefboro' every Wednesday by 6A M*
arrive at Suffolk by 6P M. Returning. Leave Suf
folk every Tuesday by 6 A M, and ari ive at Murfrecl*
boro* b)6PM.
94. From Fayetteville to Pittfourg once io two
weeks.
Leave Fayetteville every other Wednesday by 6 A
M, aud arrive at Pittlburg on Thursday at 10 A M.*
Leave Piufburg eveiy other Thursday by a P M, aud ar
rive at Fayetteville-on Friday by 6 P M.
GEORGIA AND SOU TH-CAROLINA.
95. From 4u 9 uita by Robinson at the White
Ponds and Giliets mills to Coofahatchy, once a
week.
Leave Augusta every Tuesday by 8 A M and ar
rive at Ceofahatchy on Wednesday by 7PM. Re
turning. Leave Coofahatchy every Sunday at 6 A
M and arrive at Angufta on Monday by 5 PM.
96. Front Georgetown to Rocky Landing in
Georgia, once in two weeka.
Leave Georgetown every other Mod day at 6 A
M, and arrive at Rocky Landing at 5 P.M. Re
turning. Leave Rocky Landing every other Tues
day by 6 A M and arrive at Georgetown by 6 PM.
Note I. The Pojl Mafitr General may alter the timet
of arrival and departure at any time duriug the continuance
of the contrails, be previa fly Jlipulating an adequate com
pensation far any extra expense tljat may be occaf tonedthere*
by
Nate 2. Half an Lour Jball be allowed J or opening
and cl'fwg the Mail at all offices where no particular time
is fpeeifed.
Note 3. For ev ry hour s delay (unavoidable accidents
excepted) in arriving after the times prefer ibed in any con
trol, the Contractor jhall JorJcit on: dollar, and if the de
lay continue until the departure of any depending Mail*
whereby the Mails de/lined far such depending Mail, hfe
a trip, an additional Jorfeitunc of five do tars fhaJL be
incurred'
Note 4' Neivfpapers as rue'.lae Let'ers are t» be fert
• ln the Mails ; and f any per fun making prop of jlt deftret
o carry neivfpapers other than tbnfe conveyed in the mail %
for his 6tvn emolument, be tnuft fate in bis propfals fcr
iv bat fumbe will car.*} it ivitb that emolument and fur
Iwhat sum •witbent that tmolument.
Note 5 Shonld any p?rfon making prep f/Is iefire an
alteration of the times of arrival and departure above fpe
cifedy hemufl flmte in bis prop'ofals the alteration* df fired %
an i tie difference they •will make in the terms of b 'n cm
trail.
Note 6. Persons making proposals are deftred <0 slate
their prices by the year. 'lbttf contract will receive
their pay quarterlj. in the rr. f January, April,
July and October.
Note 7 The con/faffs are to be in operation on the fir ft
day of O&obcr next, arid continue for four years, until
tbe fr(l of October jZoi—excepting contrails for the
routes No. 8, 9 1 10, 3f, 36, 50, jl, 5?, 60, 74,
76, 77, 80, 81, 83. 84. 87, 90, 91, 9J, 96
ivhicb are to continueJ or two years until tb vfl of Qttob.r x
1799-
JOSEPH HABERSHAM, ,
Pvji MeiJlcr Central.
General Port-Office, Philadelphia, >
May 37th, 1797. 5
J u:ty r - qawtTtT
JOHN CRAIG
HAS jilft imported from Rotterdam, via St.
Tho mas, and for fa!e on reafonablc terms
by thepackage,
. Platillas Royal
Haerlem anil Gerirtln linens
Ruuens
Poll and ProPatria Paper
Wafers
Quills
Oziers for.Hoops, in Bundles
(Coffee Bags t
' He las also for S'-ale,
Best Red Clover Seed t
**>ld Mariein Wine, fit for immediate nft
TeneriflV Wine of firft and ftcond Qnality
Coffee m Bags and Hogsheads
Jamaica Spiiits
Connexion Turpentine Soap
Window Glass
Two Trunki of best Patent, Silk 4pd Cotton
HoEery
April 18. ■ 4a w
Spanish Language.
WANTED, a person well qualified to f: ■ 115-
late Spanilh papers and documents into the
English language Such a one who can producs
unexceptionable rrcommcndauant, snd is (icfiroui
of immediate employment, will pleafc to make
application in vriting at the ofiiee of the Com
miflioners for carrying into effrft the twenty-firft
article of the treaty ot ffic.idfhip, limits and navi
gation, between his Catholic majesty and the Uni
ted States of America, — during office hours, or
at the office of PETER. LOHRA, Sec'y.
Philadelphia, Juec I. t —3p