ft it of tijt tlllifets and hiladelphia Daily Advertiser.
7/ "° '573 !
SALES BV AUCTION.
Stated Sales •
For n r r g 0,0 ds.
f Fonenonn —Edward Fox, No. 56,
/' »// ■' south Front-flreet,
"°' Aft;, moo 6-—Footman & Co. N®. 65
(_ South Frontftreet.
f Forenr>oii-*John Old City
iT., a ) -Auilion, No. 73 fout'h Pront-ftreet.
- y Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
C_ ißj High-street.
jrednefday J A
Tburfday $ Fox.
- ■> I Afternoon—John Connelly.
1? ;j ( Forenoon—Willyi® Shannon.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
HAVANNA SUGARS. "
; FOR SAL?.,
1 +OO boxes and cgjKS prime white Havan
na SUGARS, .
On board the (hip Hamburgh Packet, Silas
Sv>ain, Mailer, now lying at Marcus Hook.
For terms, apply to Capt. Swain, on board, to
Capt. Samui l Smith, in Front, near Wal
nut street, or to
Philip Nicllin, & Co.
r Who offer the said Ship
Hamburgh Packet
for SALE or CHARTER.
She 13 313 ions regiller, coppered to the bends,
fails remarkably fail, and nan be ready to re
ceive a cargo in a few days.
Sept 21. _ daw
Antigua Rum,
JUST arrived at Wilmington, Delaware
Ftate, and now lauding from on board the
Brig A.live, VTilliatn Williams, Matter,
One hundred hhds. 3d & 4th proof,
And for Sale bv
Jehu Hollingf-Jiorth (if Co.
Wilmington, Sept. ai. dtf
•«£>: N. B. The above Brig,
l§k '£r *>V» and the brig GAYOSO, are
i>. fry alio for Sale or Charter, and
w>.*!> . now ready to receive a cargo
on hoard, at Wilmington. Apply as above.
For Savannah,
j-—i The fall failing (hip,
SWIFT PACKET,
Patrick Grib'bin, Mafler,
Now lying opposite the mouth
of l rankford Creek, his handsome accommoda
tions tor palTengers, and will fail on or about
the ift ei' October.
For freight or pafftge apply to the mafler on
board, or of the fublcribers at Ffankford, 5 t-a
miles from Philadelphia.
Nalbro £9° J. Frazier.
FranVforri, Sept. 18. dtiftO.
For HAMBURGH,
r S 'HE Copper Bottomed Ship
vJteSvl- 1 FA VORITE, John
]KW!5w < H»v Thompson, Mister, now at
.-v/tV "J'V-jr- Bnght's wharf, and will be rei
■s <!y to take in on Monday next,
part of her cargobeiog engaged
and reidy to go on board. Tht (hip i» so well
known, that it is needless to describe her. She
is now in compleat order. For Freight or Paf
fjge, please ta apply at Mr Jeremiah Warder's
Compting House, No. 12, North Third street,
or to the MaAer on bord.
August 30.
For SALE,
On board the said Ship, Swedilh Iron, afTorte I
Hollow and Window Glass, Demvjohns, Wrap
piup Paper fir Sugar Refiners. Rugs of 1 & 2
Quality. Please to apply as above.
* ; wf&m4w
White Havanna Sugar.
1401 boxes") of very fuperiorquality now difcharg*
hhd*. ) ing from the lhij> Hamburgh Packet,
at Walnut Street wharf—and forfale by
Philip Nick/in Iff Co.
N. B.
THE SHIP
Hamburg Packet,
® ILAS Swain, Mafler,
For Sale, or Charter.
Aug. 24. eotf
T 0~ B £ S O I> D,
And pojfejfion given immediately,
A LARGE two story brick Houfe,handfomely
situated in Princeton. There are four rooms
and a large entry on each floor, and five rooms in
the garret, a range of lia*k buildings 51 feet in
length, and a piazza of 57 feet. J here is a pump
in the yard, an excelleut kitchen garden, at the
farther end of which are a carriage house and two
(tables, one of which is new, 44 feet long, with
flails in the two stables for 27 horses. The hcal
thinefs and pleasantness ot its fttuation, and tht
number of genteel and agreeable families in and
near the town, reader it a desirable retreeat for a
gentleman from the city. The comrnodioufnefs of
the house, its cential position, and the largeness of
-the (tables, mate it| every way fuitableforatavern, for
" which it has always been confidcrd as a capital
Hand. Inquire on tne prcmifes, of
ISAAC SNOWDEN.
Princeton, Ang. 15. 29 —diwaawtf
* N <>;T I C E.
IF Thedy O'Hara, whofome years fincekept
School at tht Nine Bridges, Queen's County, Eaf
tcrn Shore, Maryland, be living, he is hereby re
minded to call on, or write to, the R«v. Ambrose
Marshal, near Warwick, Cecil County, Eastern
Shore, Maryland, from whom he will reeeive in
terefring in formal jo n.
Augujl 4. mw&f4w
Imported inthefhipMANCHESTER,
Benjamin Shewell, Master,
From Bouriieaux, and for sale by the fubferiber,
No. ji Walnut St-eet.
Bonrdeaux Bra-ndy "J l
Irish market claret in cases ( Entitled to
Medoc wine, 'in do. J Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatrsyd.
WHO HAS FOR SALE. 1
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter caffcs
Rota do. do. '
Pimento in bags
4000 bushels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24.
PHILADELPHIA: SATURDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 23, i 797
WANTED
Bills on Amfterdatn, at a fight cot exceeding six
ty day?, and with approved Indorfcrs, to'the amount
jf two hundred thousand guilders—for which cafli
will he paid at the rate of thirty eight cent- a gail
* <ler—Applications to be made to George Simpfon,
F.fcj. Caihier ef the Hank of the United States.
Sept. 14. dtf
Young Hyson Tea.
40 chcfts of a superior quality—Alio,
100 do. of Hyson,
Imported in the IVoodrop Sims, and for sale by
the fubferibers, corner of Second and Pine
street.
C. liaight.
June 21. eotf
Imported in the Jhip Pigou,
And for sale by John Morton, No. li 6, South
Front-street.
Hyson
fryfon Skin (™, t
Young Hyson
Imperial J
1 April 20. eotf
. The Norfolk Mail STAGE.
THIS Stage starts from the GEORGE Tavern,
at the corner of Second and Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, rvery TuefJuy, Tburfday, and Satar
day, at 3 o'clock, in the irorning ; arrives at l>o
vcr the firft day, at Snowhill the second day, at
Northampton Court House the third day, and 011
the morning of the fourth day tie palfengers find
a fafe and comfortable packet to cunvay them to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Nwthampton fetry,
every Tuofd y, Thurf lay and Jaturday, and the
Stage starts from this ferity fop Philadelphia, every
Mon.'ay, Wcdnefday and Friday ;Jputsup at Snow
Hdl the firft night, at Dover the zd night, and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day.
Thediftance on this route, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, it So miles less than on ai,y ftagc route
between 'those placet
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road,
which is most excellent inde*d. The proprietors
wdlingly engage to return the wh»le fare to any
paiTengtr, who, after having performed this route,
will fay that he ever travelled in a it age for the fame
distance, so good a road in America.
August 11. dim. eotf.
This Day Published,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of
Second and Chefnut streets,
.Price $-%tbs of a Dollar,
Observations on certain Documents
Contained in No. V and VI of
" The History of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In which the ch '.ro* or sfkculation againlt
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late SccatTAftv of the TucAsua, is FULLY
REFUTED.
WRIT.tEN Br UfMSßir.
This publication presents a concil'e statement
of the bj.e means pra&ifed by the Jacobins of the
United Sratfs io asperse the ehara<ft«r» of tbofs
perfors who are corfiaered as hostile to their difor
garizing schemes. Jt also contains the cor
nfpondencc between' Mr. Hamilton and Messrs.
MonrOe, Muhlenburgh and Venahle, on the fub
je<3 of the documents aforefaid, and a series of let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr Ha
milton, proving beyond the poßibility of a doubt,
that the connexion betwetn him and Reynolds,
was the rcfult 01 a daring confpiraay on the part
of the latter and his affbeiates to extort money.
A difcour.t of one third from the retail price
will be made in favor ot wholesale purchasers, for
cash. Orders to be addressed to Mr Young.
Avrujt aj.
No. 188.
DiJlrilT of Pennsylvania, to <wit :
(l. s. i^ P 11 RK .MJiMBEREI'), that on the
' -1' twenty sixth day of July, in the twen
ty second of the independence of the United
States of America, JOHht Fenno, of the said dif
tricl.liath deposited in thisoffice the title of a hook,
the wh«reof he clai&s as proprietor, in the
words following, to wit ■—
" OHfervations 011 certaia documents contained.
" in No. V. and VI. of 41 The Hiflory of the T.'nit
" ed States for the year 1796" in wliith thn charge
" of speculation, againll Alexander Hamijtoo, late
" Secretary of the Treafnry, is fully refutid—
" Written by hiinfelf "
In conformity to-h# aS os-tic Conjrefs »f tlie
Ucited States, enrituled, " A» sit for the encour
agement of learning, by fecunng the copies of
maps, charts and books to the authors ant? propri
etors of such copies, during th« times therein men
tioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
1 Clerk of the Diflrift *f Petinfylvania.
July 37. W4W
MRS. G RAT lAN
INFORMS her friends,and the public in general,
t iat htrr house, No. 192, Market-ftrcct, will con
tinue open during the fieknefs.
Board and Lodging in a separate room, tun
dollars, in a double room, eioiit dollars.
For the convenience of those gentlemen who
have not thGir amilies in town, Mrs. ©rattan
will receive gentlemen to dine at halt a dollar
a day. 19- —6t
Imported in the latefl arrivals from
Anifterdam and Hamburg, and forfale by
B. Sff J. BOHLEN,
A large assortment of fine French Camhricj,
Platillas RnfliaiiidDutch sailcloth
B- ittannias Writing, post, and pi int-
Kouanes ing paper
Brown Holland Durch calf ikins
ChecVs and (Iripes Psime madder
Ticklenburga Shell'd Barley
Oznaburgs Looking glasses
White (heetitigs Hollow glafe ware
Diaper Slates
Brown rolls Coffee mills
Umbrellas Brass kettles
Hair ribbons Scythes and draw knives
Black and whitelaces Tovs alTorted in boxes
Beil Holland Gin in pipes
London particular Madeira Wine
Jnly »4- m&thtf
Cedar Shingles. (
THE fuhferiber has a quantity of 3 feet Cedar
Shingles rf a superior quality, for sale at 13
dollars p<;r-thoufand. x
William Halhivell, 1
Nq. 193 North 7 hini-Jireet.
July »7- eout
By John Fenno, N°- 119 Chefnut Street
Lately Published,
(n one vol. 8 vo. (price one dollar in boards) fold
t by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of Second and
1 i Chefnut streets,
" I Collection of Papers on the fubjedt of
Billious Fevers, prevalent in the United
States for a few years past.
Compiled by NOAH tVF.BSTER, j U n.
Containing letters from Doctors Scan an, Ssnith,
Bucl, Taylor, Ramsay, Monfon, Reynolds, Mitch
ell,on contagion, &c. &c.
r *"">■ l < tt ■
City ComniiJJioners Office,
August 29, 1797.
IN pur f.iance of an Ordinance of the Seleci and
Common Councils, palled the 2id day of May lad.
Proposals in writing will be received hy the City
Commiflioners for one month from the Ift of Sep
tember next, for letting to rent on leases for o«ie
year to commence the firfl day of January next, the
following public property of the city—
The wha'f and landing on Vine Street,
Also on Saflafra*,
Mulberry,
And High Streets,
Chefnut and Walnut Streets, Uraw "ridge, with
the Scale and Fiili Houses, Spruce, Pine and Cedar
Streets.
The cellar under the City-Hall.
The I'avern at the middle ferry on Schuylkill, !
with the lots contiguous thereto, (except so ranch
thereof as (hall be occupied by jtny buildings ercA
ed for the use of the Collector of the Tolls, or fct
fcrcellkry for the toll-gates.)
Ang 3 3tav»rm.
L O S T,
OV the PafTyunk Road, between the Blue Ball
and the city, a Fowling Piec*, with a hrals
bai rcl and fitver li^ht; on th* plateoor. r thebuirare
the letters "Jamaica, 99" —artd'onfjje barrel
near the lock " London" and the Tower (lamp.
Whoever will return the aid piece to John BLunard,
•tthefign of t/ie Blue Ball on the Paffyunk Road,
orthrofliceo! this Gazette, fltall receive a reward
of Four French Crowns,
F-ept. 11.
DUTY ON CARRIAGEST"
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT agreeably to an a (St of Congress of the
United States of America, parted at Phila
delphia, the zßth day of May, 1796 ; laying du
ties on Carriages, for the conveyance of persons,
which (hall be kept by or for any person, for his
or her own use, or to let out to hire, or for the
conveyance of paflengers, the several duties and
rates following, to wit :
For an 4 upon every Coach, 15 dols.
upon every Chariot, l» dols,
upon every Post Chariot, n dols.
upon every Post Chaise, ia dols.
upon every Phaeton, with or without top,
9 dols.
upon every Coachee, 9 dols.
upon other Carriages, having pannel work
above, with blinds, glalles or curtains,
9 dols.
upon f»ur wheeled Carriages, having fra
med polls and topi with (leel fpriogs, 6
dots.
upon four wheeled Carriages, with wood
en rr iron fprinjs or jacks, 3 dols.
ttpon Curricles with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chaises with tops, 3 dots,
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols.
upon other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carriages, with ft eel or
iron fpriAgs, 3 dols.
Ftr and upon all other two wheel carriages, a dols.
upon every four wheeled carriage, having
framed polls and tops, and rcfting up
on wooden spars, a dols.
The Collectors of the Revenue for the firft Sur
vey of the Diftriit of Pennsylvania, will'attend
daily, until the 30th day of September n*xt, (or
the putpofe of receiving tl.e duties on Carriages, at
Germantowu ; at the house of Daniel St. Clair, Esq.
in the County of Montgomery; and at the house
of James Chaptaan, Esq. in the County of Bucks;
of which all persons poifeffed of such Carriages are
desired to take notice.
Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dis
tilled spirituous liqaer*, that lic<nces will be grant
ed to them ; one licence for carrying on the busi
ness of retailing of Wines, in a kfs quantity, or
in left quantities than thirty gallons—»and one li
cence for carrying on the bullncfs of retailing Spi
rituous liquors in tafs quantltifetf rhaa 20 gallons, at
the fame time and at the fame places, by the offic
ers legally «uchorifed to gram such licences.
WILLIAM NICHOLS, •
Infpetfor of the Revenue of the firft Air
vcy of xlte Diftritfl of Pennfylvaniat
Office oi foipe&ion. at
German tow, iath Sept. X7P7- S
IMPORTED
la the {hip America, James Ewing, niafter, from 1
Hamburgh, <
Brown Holland# j
'White Ptftillas ']
Ticklenbsrgs
Coarse Linens ,
Tapes ;
Looking' Grades "> r
Olaft Tumbler, j in rase! -
FOR SALE BY
George Penmck.
August 14, jaw (
An elegant House in Arch Street. '
TO be let and entered on immediately a large
and elep-ant house at thf Corner of Arch and
Ninth Street. There are two drawing rooms
and one dining room—the largest is 31 feet by
two are so conne<sled by folding doors
as to make but one. Alio, five bed rooms, be
sides 5 in the garret, well finilhed for fcrvants.
There are (tables and a coach house, with evry
convenience for a family. Enquire .it No. 19,
in North Seventh street, or at No. aiß, Arch
Street. '
Aug. ic. aawaw.
PETER BORGtR,
INFORMS his friend?and the public in general -
that he has removed from No. 149, corner of
Arch and Fourth, to No. ICJ North Front, be
tween Arch and Race ftreeti, ;
July a".
Window Glass, x
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than any other in
theCitv — (
OF VARIOUS SIZES,
From 8 by 6 to J9 by 14,
By the finglc Box or Quantity, may be had at the
S'ore of the Subferibers, corner of Arch and Front- \
street.
James C. & Samuel W. Fi/Jjcr. '
Philadelphia, J ueg, 1797.
To be Sold at Vendue,
M /"\NFri<Jav the 19th' instant, prcctfely at three
o'clock in rfic afternoon, at sign of tlie
king of Prufiia, near the market heufe in Ger
sf mantown, a fwofiipry stone dwelling houfe,barn
id ani ' stable and lot of 1 acres 2q 16 perches of
ground, part ol which is an orchard of excellent
fruit trees, situate nearthe middle of German-
town, on the north fa ft fide of the main street
|j_ or road, containing in front on the f-f.d street
or road 149 feet nine inches ; bounded by ground
, of Dr. Betton slid other* and opposite to the
mefluage and lot of Melchior Ming, The above
l_°t > s good c!over meadow, and has a never
failing ftreain of water rtznniug through it.
1( j Also three other lots of ground, each contain
s. W S about two acrefs, situate on the fuuth eatt
y fide of Kittephoufe's .Mill road,commonly called
p. Peter Smith's Lane, in Germantown townftip,
ic at the dill a nee of 170 yards from the south welt
ie fide of the Germintown main street, bounded
by lands of Conrad Carpenter, James Oglebv,
Jacob Keout, and Melchior Ming. Tht above
lsts are high and pleasantly situated, command
ing a plealing prqfpedt of Germantown atidthe
Schuylkill and Wifiahiccon hills, and are well
» adapted for gentlemen's country feats. The
r hid lots are now in clover, and there are on the
fame upwards of 100 grafted fruit trees.
A good and indifpvtable title, clear of all in
cumbranjes, will be given to the purchaser
" twenty days alter the sale, upon th£ payment
of one half of the purch'afe money, and fe uriirg
the other half by mortgage upon the purchased
premises.
PolTcffion of the fir ft described lot and premi
se» may be hnd on the 17th April next, and im-
II mediate ppfieffion may be had of the three last
is mpntior.ed lots.
« Any person, wishing to view the above j;re
•l miles, may fee the fame by applying to Benj.
• Lehman, in Germantown near the Market
'. house. ED iVARD FOX, Auflioneer.
Germantown, aid Sept. 1797. dtS
Sundry Lots
IN the following Squares in the City of Walhing
ton will he exposed to Public Sale, by the sub-
Icribcrs, Monday in October next,
at the Little Motel, in thefaid City, to com
mence at 10 o'clock :
: Squatc No. 31, 41. 43, 44. 47. 4?. 49. j°> SS,
■ 66, 67,68,69, 70, 7j.74.7i. 76, 77. 7*. 79.101.
■ lot, 105,118,119,110,141, 61,56, 84,104, 87,
. 88, 89, i«4, 114, 115, no, 61, 166, 80,103,
s square «aft of square 87jfquarefouth cf square 104,
'■ square north of square 81, square east of square 88,
1 square north of square 128.
These I.ots are advantageously situated in the
neighborhood of the President's Square, and deem
ed equal in value to any in the city, and will be
peremptorily fold ; clear and valid titles will tw
made to the purchaser, oh receipt of the purchase
1 money. Terms of sale, arc, good notes, negotia
ble at the Bank of Columbia, one fourth part in
one month, one other fourth in three months, one
other fourth in five months, and the remaining ojre
■ fourth in feren months.
WILLIAM DEAKINS, jtm.
URIAH FORKEST.
' Sept. »l. dts
At the Federal Blast Furnace,
In Cari'ct—for Slitting, Platting, and Rolling
SEYMOUR'S Rollers.
THEIR Juptriority conji/ls in being freefrom
boles and honey-combed places. ixihich are com
monly found, in rollers cajl in sand, or clay
moulds. Theft patent rollers Ore cajl in iron
moulds, preuiotjly heated, and •will be found to
be more deiyfe, J'olid and durable than any rollers
heretofore used. Another important advantage
they have ever others, is, that the necks require
no turning, but are iiMintdaitely Jit for use, and
from their accuracy, run iuith less friflion, and
require less water to make them perform their
<work. 'I hey may Be had by application to the
Patentee in Plymouth, of Oen. Nathaniel Gosd
•wiri, or of Mejfrs. Thatcher a id Huy wurJ.
Bojlon, Aug. jl.
____ Sept. 19. ■'§bt.
Mr. L Ai L SON,T
WITH an intention to render service, and unde
ceive those Pei formers, who durieg his ahfeoce Mr.
Jaymond has thought proper to engage, thinks it i
would be wrong in him not to inform thole that
are engaged, that it» withou his approbation, and
that he will not be in any Way answerable for 1
Jaymond's engagements.
PHILIPPE LAILSON.
Alexandria, Syt. 15, 1797 6t. !
THE SUBSCRIBERS,
ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GREEN LEAF,
HEKE3Y give notice, that they havedifpofed
of the property afiigned to tbemior the ldcui ing j
the payment of the note-', acceptances, and er.-
doifements given by Edward Fox, for thp use
of thefaid James <sreen(taf; and the holders of
such notes, acceptances, and endorsements, are
hereby notifyed that the fuhferibers will fettle
with them for the amount of their refpe<Sive I
claims, both principal and interest, at !
any time before the aeth day of October next;
after which dav, the holders not applying, will
be excluded, agreeably to the terms of assign
ment.
Applications to be made at south-east corner
of Dock and Second flreets (the Dock-street
fide), between the hours of eleven and one o'
clock evtiy day, Sunday- excepted.
Hent-y Pratt,
Tho. IV. Francis,
John Miller, Jun.
John AJhley,
Jacob Baker.
Philadelphia, August 18, 1797. d
Just published,
And to be fold at the Bcokftores of H. y P,
Rice, No. .50, Market-street i J. Ormrod, ,
No. 41, Chefnut-flreet, and \V. Young, s
corner of Chefnut and Second-streets,
An accurate Syftern of Surveying; 1
IN WHICH IS CONTAINED,
1. Decimal fractions, in a plain, concise.,. (
and ealy manner.
2. The extra,flion of the square root.
3. Plain trigonometry, redlangular and ob- ,
lique. i
4. An exait method to call up the contents ,
of lands.
5. Field surveying. j
The whole being performed without the use i
of scale and compafles, on a ta'ile of logarithms. ;
In which is given some acccunt of the variation i
of the needle, and the causes of its attradlitjn.
By SAMWEL MC)G n R£.
Augufli. aawiw
Thomas Herman L,buffer,
e North Fifth ftHfet, coiner of North alley, No. 34,
e rtis FOR SALE,
Ip XCELLENT red BdurdeaUx Wine in cafe r
-J , boxes,' fix years old
i White Graven Wine in Ci-.fLs
t Tirklcnbufgs
- Russia Sail Cloths
r Ravens Duch
t Bag Linen ,
i Heflians
» Diaper and Table Cloth
; Empty bags
r Common German Cloth
A n affortmont of black coloured Ribbons
. Fine German Laces
. About twelve tops Russia clean Hemp
j Clover Seed
Italian Soap, in small boxs<£ for family uf<s
( Window Glass ; . —2tw
THIS DAY WAs, PUBLISHED, *
And for (ale by 7HOM/JS DOBSON, at
Stone House, No. 41, south Second street,
EVENINGS at HOME;
■ OR, tHE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED.
' Confiding of a of MifceSlaneous Pieces for
theinftru&ion and amusement of YOUNG PER
SONS—-Six Volumes >iandfomcly printed and bound
up ia two volumes, price Two Dollars.
The variety and excellence of theft pieces are
such, that the book need* only to be known to be
uuiverfally esteemed one of the most valuable pub
lications th t can be put into the hands of young
persons.
44 Delightful task to rear the tender thought,
To teach the young idea how to ftioot.
To pour tk< frefh inftrudion o'er the mind,
To breathe th' enlivening fpirit,and to fix
The generous purpose in the glowing breast."
Thomson.
August 24. mwf4w
THIS D -\Y IS PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS &OBSON, at the Stone Houfc,
No. 41, south Second street,
Letters and Conversations,
Between several Young Ladies, on improving and in
terelhng fubje&s.
Translated from the Dutch of Madame de Camion
with alterations and improvements,
Printed on ji.lt paper, and neatly bound,
Price me dollar.
AMIDST the tide of modern Romances, painting
tales of extraordinary distress, or of desperate or
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," a rut
which it would be for the honor of young ladies to
be ignorant of, this little book comes forward to so
licit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds of real life, the proper, beoauf*
elegant and natural dignity and importance of tha Female
character is exhibited in an interefling point of view,
and prefects examples of real and attainable excel
lencc.
The publiflier was fomuch pleafedwlth the per*
sal, that he was persuaded he fliould do a pleafinj
service to the community by fending it in o circu-
.Auguft 14 —mw4w
To Masters and Pilots fringing up Vejfele
from Foreign Ports to this City.
TTTHereasfundry infringements have lately been
V V made on the laws of this state for the pre*
venting pestilential or infe&ious diseases, either
from ignorance or inattention thereto, it ia tho't
expedient at this time to publish the following ex»
tracts from the laws of lad April, 1794, 7th
Bth fedions.
HEALTH-OFFICE.
June 6th, 1794.
ExlraS of an aSfor securing the eity and port
of Philadelphia from the introduflion of pefti.
lential and contagious diseases.
Sect. 7. And be it further enadted, that every
maftcf or captain of any ship or vessel coming from
sea (velTels actually employed n the coasting trade
excepted) and bound to ;my port or place within
the jurildiflion of Pennfylvania.fha'l cause hisfhip
or vessel to be brought to anchor,or othcrwife flay
ed in the llrcam of the fiver Delaware, oppsfite to
the Health-Office on State-Island aforefaid, and
there to remain until he shall have duly obtained a
certificate or bill of heal h from the Resident Piiy
(ician. And it, previeufly to obtaining such certi
ficate or bill of health, any master or captain (hall
Puffer bis Slip or vessel to approach nearer than the
said Health-Office to the city of Philadelphia, cr
; (h.ill land, cause cr£uffer to be landed, or brought
1 011 (llore, at any place or port within this Corn
nopriwealth, or at any other port or place, with the
inteat of being conveyed into this Commonwealth,
any pcrfon or persons, or any goods, wares or mer
chandize, or, if as iir receiving such bill of health
o. certificate, he shall ncgkfi or refufe to deliver
the ,I'anw to the Health-Qlfieer, iuch master o'r c»p
---' tain shall forfeit ma p j, for each and every fuck
the furu of five hundred dollars.
And the captain or mailer of every fh;p or vef
, fel shall fend a fife and commodious boat to bring,
the physician on board, and shall in like manner
; convey him back to the Hsalth-Office, after he hu
concluded hi- official examination ; And vhile he
il malting lech examination, or in rase ar.y fubfe
<[uent examination by the Heakh Officer or Con
jfulting Physician, ajreeatly to the directions of
t hi:- aiS, the mailer or captain fliall expose or caule
to heexpofed to thefearch of the Resident Physi
cian; or of the Health Officef and Confultrng Physi
cian (as the cafe may be) each and every part of the
ihis or vessel, ar.d shall prcfent to his view each
and every person or persons on board thereof, and
and shall also true and fatisfadlory answers make
to all luch questions as the Resident Physician, &c.
it the time of examination shall ask relative to the
ihealthof any port or place fr«»m which the ship or
■ vessel failed, or has since touched at—tJie number
of persons on board when the ship or vessel entered
on her voyage—the number of persons that hive
ftnee been landed or taken on board, and Wlicu
and whererefpeflively—what persons on board—
s they have been during the voyage, or shall, at.
the time of examination, be infedted with any pes
tilential or contagious disease—and what is the pro
fent state and condition of the persons on board
with refpedt to their health or diseases. And it
any matter or captain shall refufe to expose as afore
aid, to the search of any of the officers aforefaid,
n if he shall conceal any feci person, or in any other man
ner deceive the proper officers aforefaid in his
uch captain or master, for every such offence, shall
forfeit and pay the sum of five hundred »oa-
LARS.
Sect. 8. And if any person or persons v.hatfa
ever (the Resident Physician, ice. excepted) shall
go on board any vessel, before the mailer thereof
has received a certificate of health in the manner
direSed, every person so offending, shall pay the
Um Of OMB NSND&ED DOLLARS
IT beisg abfolwely necessary that the foregoing
fe6lion3 should be punctually complied wits, the
fubferiber, in compliance with his duty, must ex
a& a rigorous observance of tha fame, or else ba
under the neceffify of putting the laws in force.
W'm. ALI.rN, Health Officer of the
Port of Philadelphia.
J«ly 14. «ijw
[Foli'me XII.j <V the Gazette of the United States.
" OihirS apart,
" Slunk in a en-tie rctir'J.'*
Oil the day of the Fdtival given to the Prefi
difit tif the United States, by the Citizens of
BolJnn, the Jacobins held in some hole
their civic orgies, and there drink, in many
a flowi' s; Howl, damnation to government,
kind i"j frs ftgainil their country. This gave
ovcifiaii to the following;
BENJAMIN'S FEAST. 1
A parody. j
'Twas St the rfvic fcaft by FACrioi '.vob»
From BtvjiMrtK herfon,!
■Alrd't in awful (late,
The pale-faq'd hero fate, f
A wa'hing-tub his throne.
His brethren all were plac'd armmd,
From girret-loft and cellars under gmund,
P<ck'd up where e'er they could be found.
The iovelv Feliowestty his fide
Sat like a fat RiT.vyiAH, bru'.e,
In full-bpifrn' Jaeeobiic pride-
Happy, happy pair,
NVue lint i'uch men /
■SagacicTU!) BKN,
Ndne but such men deserve thy cafe.
The pious Per E2 fang
To eij'arm thc-jovial crew ;
The vaulted roofs re-echoing rang
Around their fivage pleasure flew.
The song began from France
XVho, niiThtieft pow£t-», at her advance,
Vanquifh'd, as pa'fied by a trance ;
The loyalty and sense they ence copld boalt
W.th all their ancient glory lofl ;
For round them like a snake Ihe curl d
And fafcinated half the European world—
Thf lift'niiig crowd the glorious tale admire,
And far, with lend huzzas the democratic fire.
With ravilh'd cars
B-KjAMrN hears,
A flumes the Gqd,
AfFeifli to nod,
And fcems to (hake the spheres—• funjr»
The praifeof Thomas then.the sweet musician
Of Thomas Paine admir'd by old & young;
Thomas to Columbia cemes,
Sound Faction's trumpets, beat her dr»ms,
Flufh'd with a purple grace
He Ihowi his maudlin face.
Pause,& aimire your chief—he comes.hecomes,
Tom. whom Gallic bands have sung
'Gainst Kings and priefls did Faction's
caul'e maintain,
Tommy's writing are a treafur«.
Drinking 'oo is Tommy's pleasure,
Rich the treifnre,
Sweet the pleasure,
Sweet is brand/ as er pain.
Sooth'd with the found great Be* grew vain.
Spoke pages from the works of Paine ;
Asd thrice he guillotin'd the great, and thrice
he flew the (lain. *
Sage Pif.ez saw the madness rife,
His glowing cheeks and ardent eyes;
And while he heav'n and earth defy*J t
Chang'd his note, and check'd his pride;
Hr chofe'a mournful muse,
a Soft.pity to inf'ife,
He fang poor IliNoOLPit once fograe'd j
Pv ti-o severe a fat^
F-illen, fallen, fallen, fallen,
Fallen from his hirh eflate,
DeredU- i and difplac'd
With riinyncsft locks thejoylefs Jawyer fatf,
Revolving in hisanguiih d foul,
T'k various turn! of fate betow;
His thoughts upon hi? difappointmsnts roll,
Sure cause of all his ftillies, all bis woe.
Perez beheld his alter'd friend,
And wishing all his power to lend,
That every care he might dilmifi,
Chanted the sweets of fqcial bliss
Softly sweet in Lydjan measures,
Sotin he footh'd his foul to pleafurss ;
Politics he fair] were trouble,
Public office huta bubble,
Never ending, flill beginning,
Real happiness deilroying ;
If fortune e'er were worth thy winning,
I think, O ! think it worth enjoying.
Lovely Fellows fits beside thee,
Meat and drink the French provide thee ;
The many rend the skies wi'.h loud applanfe,
And Per»z' eloquence rbtaiu'd the cause ;
Far Be N unable to conceal hit pain,
Gaz'd upon Nat,
So round and f/it,
And figh'd and look'd, Ggli'd and look'd,
Sigh'd and look'd, and figh'd again:
Atlength withfriendfhip'sforce&wineopprefs'd,
He ftrain'd the grunting giint to his bread.
Now Peitez try thy {kill again,
A louder yet. and yet a louder drain,,
Orrige will split you all asunder,
For ):> ! I hear, I hear the federal thunder-
Hark ! hark! the horrid found.
Has raised up Ben's head,
As awak'd from the dead,
A-mJ amai'd he flares around ;
Revenge, revenue, pale Perez cries—
Lo ! the President comes,
O curie on those drums— j°y'k
Groan and betaw my boys, to confound all their
Behold the soldier bands,
With arms in their hinds,
Thtfe, tfiefe ardour foes, therurs'd federal train,
And foes, of Tom Painl,
Our bfother in grain
Give, give the vengeance due,
Curse, curse the tyrant crew,
Who may pillories raise and gallows so high,
To flop our poor Jacobin throats,
And ftifie Faction's most tnelodious notes.
Enrjg'd at ihe found the whole company rose,
And Ben feiz'd a bumper and curs'd faction's
foes ;
N4T damn'd the administration,
And eke the federal nation,
And wifli'dthey hadnumbtrstobacktheir words
with blows.
* Thus once below,
As godlike Milton tells,
Th' arch fiend and brother fierdsin deep debate,
Conven'd to fliow tow'rd heav'n their spite and
hate, »
Blafphem'd the Almighty as the source of ill,
Who criifhM their power, and curb'd will.
To Satan, then, yexaitifis,yield the prize,
Atleaftconfent with him toJhart thfrcroVn ;
For he blafphemcd the God of earth & ikic,
Y*u only curs'd the Prefidem and town
■— ~ 1 " ~ " -
Thomas Armat and Son,
' OF PHILADELPHIA,
INFORM their culVomers asd the public, tliey
have removed a part'' of th«ir mrrchandize to
Wilmington : Alfa, they hiive their ftor. open in
the city. At 'either place their friends can be sup
plied, and their orders carefully attended to
By the Cumtirland, from Hull, they have re
eeived a handsome ?ff»rtment of articles, suitable
to the approaching fcafdn ; and expeA to add to it
by other falUhit'S.
Should the fickm-fs prevail in thw central part of
the city, that branch of their buflnefs will be re
moved to GirmaHtown.
0" The communication by pest is open and re
gular as usual.
* # ,j>t. Xl,
PHILADELPHIA,
SATURDAY EVENING, Serf emm* 13.
From the Vikginia Gazetts, tstc.
/
No. VIM.
A DEVELOPEMENf OF THE CAt/SES OF THE
DISTURBANC'ES BETWEEN THE AMERI
CAN AND FRENCH REPUBLICS.
Addrtj[le4 to the Citizem of America.
my fellow-citizens,
WHEN the letter from Mr. jtfferfon to
Mazzei was written, is not precisely afcer
tainetl, nor 13 it material in the present en
qtiiry to be, known. That it was written
after the idea prevailed of the diffrrance of
sentiment between the people and govern
ment of this country ; and that it is calcu
lated to confirm that idea in Franee, every
sentence of the letter itfelf proves; and there
fore is the impropriety of it -fufficiently as
certained, at whatever period it may have
|ieen written. It is suggested, however, by
some of Mr. Jefferfon's most intimate ac
quaintances and best friends (who' I have
heard admit that he wrote it) that it was
written while he was secretary of state. To
this extreme impropriety of official conduft,
I will now add an article of information j
(which I have jufl received from a quarter
that cannot be doubted) that will confirm,
in a great measure, the important part which
such letters and such conduft have afted in
producing our present situation with France.
Soon after the successor of Mr. JefFerfon
retired from the office of state, and while
the cause of his retirement was the prevail
ing tope of the day, a person, then high in
office in Virginia, and now enjoying one of
the most important appointments undef the
government of the United States, was heard
to fay, "that he" (Mr. Randolph) "never
was in the confidence of," what he was
pleased to stile, "the republican party," to
. which it is well known that person always
profefled to belong, as a proof of which, he
aflerted, that but few of the friends of
France had trusted their letters to that coun
try through the office of ftate,the rejtg
naticn of Mr. JeJferfon, .but had sent them
immediately through the hands of the minis
ter of France —that very minister, too,
who had thns infamoutly andfalfely pretend
ed a criminal intimacy even with that secre
tary, who his party thus profefled themselves
afraid to trust with their secrets against the
government of their country. This faft, my
fellow citizens, (which I conceive an im
portant one in the developement of the cau
ses of our present situation, as it opens a view
not only to the secret, the mysterious, and
very improper conduft of some of our coun
trymen, but throws a light upon the means
which have been employed by thenr, in cpn
junftion with the French, to destroy those
who stood in the way of their secret pro
jt A .«) I flatter myfelf I shall be able to
pifuve to your fulleft fatisfa&ion, if disputed;
and, therefore, shall now draw the conclu
sion, which naturally rcfults from such pre
mises as the letter juit examined into, and
the corroborating testimony of one of the
party, who has thus turned state's evidence
against bis own friends.
It is to be observed, that the confeffion
thus made of the " fear tf the party to
trust their letters through the department of
state," after the faithful, the trusty, and
the devoted friend of France, had left it, was
long before the letter of Mazzei was seen,
or such an accidental disclosure of the con
tents of their letters was expefted to be
made. The confeffion was then a thing tip
on which no precise charge could be fixed,
as it was not known what those letters " they
were afraid t« trust through the department
of state" contained. But having now seen
a letter from the officer of thjt department
himfelf, who thty were witling to truji, and
comparing the contents of that letter, with
the confeffion thus made, what are the con
clusions natural to be drawn ? That there
were letters written indeed, whicji were im
proper to be conveyed through the hands of
our government, and which, therefore, could
not be entrusted to that conveyance, after
thole had departed from office, who were
not only sensible of their impropriety, but
were equally interested with the authors
themselves, in keeping the contents of such
improper letters secret !
The letter just examined into, certainly
warrants that or any other conclusion that
can poflibly be drawn. There is not only
every thing improper in it, that can arise
from the consideration of its being written
by one who was assisting, in an eminet de
gree, in administering which
tha letter itfelf- holds up as infamous ; not
only the cleared proofs to be obtained from
it, of those misrepresentations of the princi
ples of our government, and the sentiments
of the people towards it, which were calcu
lated to bring upon us our misunderstandings
with France ; but the most fatisfaftory con
firmation that th4re were many other letters
of the famg. defeription, or perhaps worse,
written immediately to France, which have
not yet come to light in this country.
My God!— And is this the mighty friend
to the people, who is thus accusing them of be
ing the advocates of principles which they
dare not promote in the appo ntment of their
officer} ?—This the friend to American in
dependence, who is thus fecret'y courting a fo
reign power to controul us ? This the im
mciculate head of repullicanifm in the great and
flouriihing empire of America, and the ene
my to an Anglo-monarchico-ariftocratic in
fluence, who has thus travelled to the court
of the Grand Duie of Tufcany, of all other
places upon earth, to hunt out a proper con
fident to deposit his secret platfs for the pro
motion of those principles of repubKcanifm
with \ This the hero who prefers the tem
pjluous fca of lilerty to the calm of defpetifm,
and tajiisfo boldly of the timid men f Lut where
he supposed it would never be heard of by them)
who is now afraid to fay whether he is au
thor of that pretty littlt epijllt to Mazzei or
not 'f'uls the virtuous aceufer of the officers
of our government, who, while an officer
himfelf, made.,that office with which he was
entrusted, th> acknowledged channel thro'
which information was sent to our enemy,
that was improper to be conveyed through
the fame channel after he had left it ! ! !
At a time when France was endeavoring j
to dillrad-l and divide all Europe ; t a set
one nation up to destroy another ; to stir up
the people of all nations to uppofe their own
governments ; in fliort, when, (he had (hewn
an evident willingness to promote her own
views, at the expence of all the world be
lides, and for that noiale purpose, had em
ployed intriguing emifTaries in every quar
ter of the globe, where any advantage could
be gained in that way—Was it right for a
ny of the departments of those governments,
thus intrigued upon, to be made the imme
diate channel through which those wicked
ai}d deftruftive project were to be promoted
against themselves ?
From the commencement of the French
revolution to the present flage of it, through
every step, and by all parties, these were the
constant and avowed principles upon which
they afted. Even while Hie king lived, and
their pretcnfwns were confined to a limited
monarchy, they had views of diffracting and
disturbing Europe. Neckar in defence of
the king, de Lefiarts, who was minister for
foreign affairs, and their miniller at Vienna
when the war broke Out, all (hew, that the
disposition of the emperor, of Prussia and
Austria, were pacific , and that they were
all forced into the war by the system of
France. And.Briffot, in accusing the king
in the convention of want of fidelity to the
nation, confirms the fame thing.
After the king's death, we have the I
ftrorigeft proofs from the heads of both par
ties, of the continuance avid enlargement of
the fame plan. BrifTot declares in one of
his letters, that for the French to succeed
in their revolution, it was necessary " they
should fetfire to the four corners ofEurope."
Oniillr Dtfmoulins, in answer to BrifTot,
in support of the party of the Robefperians,
though violently opposed to BrifTot in every
thing else, agrees with him in the fame par
ticular. "To disorganize Europe," fays
the Robefperian, " was one of the sublime
vocations of the convention," v Their ac
tions have always eorrefponded with their
profeffions ; and the most arful and infidu
ous means hare ever been employed to en
furethem fuccets in those atrocious projedts.
At the very time ?vhen this was their plan
at home, and preparations were making for
its execution throughout Europe, they car
ried their deception, which was a principal
part of their system, so far, as to assure the
Emperor, that they abhorred the idea of
exciting commotions and diffentions among
nations. And even when they had laid one
of the most abominable schemes, which be
longed to the whole system, to destroy Eng
land, they carried their diffimuUtion so far,
as to folieit the interposition of that nation
to bring about a peace with Prussia and the
Emperor. The scheme was this ; to estab
lish a popular government in Holland, there
by to place their forces under their com
mand, destroy their trade, and, to use the
words of'one of the members* of their own
convention, "to place their a/Jignftts on the
very defksoflheir counting-houses, there to
ruin the bank of England, and bring about
a revolution in the whole money system of
Europe, &c."
To effedt this, and at the fame time to
break the maritime power of that nation,
which fteod sb much in - the way of their
wicked proje&s of " felting Jirr to and disor
ganizing all Europe," it was necessary that
the United States of America, like those of
Batavia, should be engaged in their service.
Accordingly, Genet come here charged
with inftruftions to use every means in his
power to bring about a commercial treaty
with this country, which evidently was in
tended to have that effeft ; who, Agreeably
to deceptions praftifed oa several of the
European nations to complete their plan,
used every artifice in his power, and not en
tirely without success, to kindle here a little
of thcdiforganizingbhze with which they
had " set fire to the four corners of Europe,"
and thereby place us tof> under their controul.
"Genet, although he had aftually distribu
ted French commissions in Charleftou, and
had. endeavoured to engage the people of
southern parts of America in the immediate
service of France, when at Phila
delphia, had the wretched lesion of hypo
crisy and (with which their whole
fyftetn abounded) so well by heart, as to in
duce us to believe that France did not wilh
us to join her in the*war. Nevertheless, it
appears there were those in America who
underftoochhim from the firft, and were apt
scholars, in those compounds lessons of French
politics, so necessary for the completion of
their p'a». That there ever was, and still
is, a part/ in America, who wilhed her to
come into this grand disorganizing scheme
for the aggrandizement of France, while
they assume to themselves the credit of being
her only patriots, there is no fort of doubt.
And that a coalition, so important to France
as the one proposed with America, for the
completion of this grand deftroyingplan, was
to be relinquilhed when (he saw a party for
it in this cour.try, was not to have been ex
pedled. Wljat she had failed in aecomplifh
ing by treaty} through Genet, (he soon per
ceived the means of bringing jbout by a di
vision among eurfelW? ; and to this the au
thority of our own citizens, that we were
already a divided popple, gave decided
weight. It is the last expedient which has
* Sec Chcflard'slpcech, nude and approved of
in the C&ivention, in which this whole scheme is
explained.^
t 1 he letter from the Vice-President to Mazzci
now explains to \is fully what Genet rreast in his
reply to his letter to Governeur Morri-, when he
infilluates thatjthe Secretary had exprefled very iHffer
ent fciitiments in that letter, from what he had al
ways done to him ill private. The letter so Mazzei,
;t is to be remembered, is one of his private
munications ; therefore, agreeable to bis friend Ge
net, we have no riirht to expedt tu ftnd it qonfiltent
with his pvM:c aci*s!
brought their plan so far on in the part of it
which related (;> Holland.
To hriiig about that popular government
in that deluded country, which was\t(> place
their forces under the command of France,
and ruin the bank of England, the means
which were employed arc very striking, and
serve as a ftroiig evidence of the principle by
which theyhaVe been governed in their con
duit towards us. A fter they had driven off
the Stadtholder, and overturned their gov
ernment, under the pretence of giving them
a free one, a convention war, called for the
purpose of farming a constitution, a great
majority i>f which v.'erc in favor of a ' federal
republic. The minority, who were for a
still more loose and pl-odigate system, becaQfe
like all men of that description, extremely
noisy, and formed a fadtion for the purpose
of connterafting the will of the majority
The French, with whqfe schemes of 'disor
ganization the eftabliffiment of a regular and ,
firm government did not very well accord, !
were ready at once to seize upon the diffa-
of those fadtious few, to bring a
bout a system more consonant with that spi
rit of disorder, which was the ground work :
of their plan. Accordingly, two deputies
from the fadtion (Van Vreede and Hoofe)
were dispatched to Paris, to obtajn the in
terference of France. France did interfere,
and the majority were compelled to yield.—i
Had the majority, thus treated, been in a
situation to refill, the conference, there is
no doubt, would have been war.
The coalition of America, which came
next in their maritime system, that was to
Europe in its governments and
banks, when seen through and rejedtcd,
did not, as I have already observed, increase
their affeftions for us ; but on the contrary,
determined them, as in the cafe of Holland,
to force us into the plan. In this they
were encouraged, in tj>.e fame way that thtey
had been theW, by a party which they saw
in America, ready to call in the pretended
principles of their cause to aid in the de
ftruftion of our government ; but the geo
graphical difference of situation between this
country and theUnite<J Provinces with refpeft
to France, rendered a different course of co
ercion necessary from what had bA:n prac
tised there. What they had beep able to
effedt in those neighbouring countries im
mediately by the menaces of their armies,
which had been let in from Belgium by the
affiftanee of the ice, they could only at- •
tempt in America (remote and separate
from them as (he was by the sea) through
the medium of her trade. They accord
ingly attempted, through that vulnerable
part, our interejl, to overturn that system
os-policy which they found (o much in the
way of their abominable and felfifh plan ;
hoping thereby, through the willingness of
a part, which they already saw among us,
to come into any scheme that would destroy
our government, and the dispositions of the
reft to avoid war, to subdue us to-their
schemes. I
Situated as America and France were,
this was the most effedtual—nay, the only
possible means that France could have devis
ed, to make us subservient to her will, and
ensure our afting as her tools in the subju
gation of other powers, when (he had fail
ed in the double plans of enlijlment and nego
tiation laid in thfe million of Genet. France,
it is to he observed, when (lie began her
depredations on our trade, was engaged in
the most troublesome part of the war. The
combined powers all then engaged against
her ; convulsed by her own different parties
within ; her navy low, and her means for
railing it more so ; (lie had little chance to
compel any nation, where (he could not
march her armies by land, to fall into her
schemes, other than by affedting their inte
rest in whatever way (he could.
America, though separated from her by
the sea, which (he was not situated to pass
in ftich numbers as would endanger our in
dependence, while the naval power of
Great Britain remained entire against her,
was, nevertheless, (he saw, extremely vul
nerable in her commercial* relations with
that power. Just emerged from a state of
slavery ; the private fortunes of her citieens
red 'ced by the long ftagoation of the dif
ferent branches of industry ; and incum
bered with a cnnfiderable public debt, in
curred in supporting the war which had set
her free ; all her efforts were naturally bent,
at the time when the French revolution be
gun, to that single objedt of bettering her
condition, by extending her trade ; there
by encouraging her citizens to the acquire
ment of individual wealth, the sure means
of national prosperity, credit and strength.
Great Britain, the mother country, from
whom (he had just emancipated herfelf;
with whom alone, almost, (he had formerly
traded ; whole language was similar ; whose
wants, from a long and habitual intercourse,
had become reciprocal; and above all,
whose enterpriling disposition had given her
a commercial afcenddncy in all the four
quarters of the world ; it was natural (liould
gain her principal intercourse in that way.
It was that intercourse which was to increase
the wealth, the power and the consequence
of any nation (except, herfelf ) but particu
larly of Great Britain, that France dread
ed, and in her feeret ambition.most heartily
envied. Any thing, therefore, which would
disturb and injure «ur trade, which she saw
mull, from a thousand combining circum
stances, be conaefted with, and tend to
the aggrandizertient of that nation, it was
easy to be perceived, would both oppress
the one, and bring the other to co-«perate
with her in the scheme of " banlruptcy,"
which was to produce their final ruin.
To this scheme the conduct of some of
our own citizens, at home, bore a .perfect
correspondence. It was that commercial
connection with Great Britain, it seems,
that blind prejudice against that nation in
opposition to our own irrtereft, which fills
up a considerable part of those mfreprefen
taiions of the fentimeots of
the people of this country, which firft led
France to aft against us. " Britifn mer
chants and those trading an Britifb capitals"
we find, clpfe the catalogue of that t,.n.
temptihle feis}, who, it is represented to
France, ave opposed to all tfcfe " landhoM
ers and all that mighty mass of men of ta
lents," who have loosed themfelres from
their Lilliputian ties in gratitude to her.
And while tliofe rtiifreprefentations were
thus inviting FraAce into a war against tfur
commerce* that war, certainly,°was best '
calculated, of all others, to make tools of
us to that nation. The government of
America, being a popular government, those
who mifreprefatttd the fuitiments of the peo
ple towards that government, to France,
well knew tbemfelves, that to engage Ame
rica in her feryice, it was firft necessary, in
fact, to change the sentiments of the pwple—
and that was to be no way more effedtually
done, than by firft (tabbing their intereftj
and then convincing them that that injury
had been done them by the impoYicy and •
wickedness of their ruled. Tin's co-operati
on with the Frendg'fcheme we have seen
for several years in tjfs country.
Thus, my oilr trade ha*
been destroyed, our HiWrefts injured, and
our government censured, to make us over
turn that government, and place ourselves
in the fraternal, or rather infernal, grip of
France.
AMERICANUS.
Richmond, September 3, 1797".
PROVIDENCE, £>' ptember 16.
At a town-council fpec:ally holden in and
for the town of Providence, on Wcdnef
day the 13th of September, 1797.
State of the FEVER in PROVIDENCE.
Since the report of this council, which
was communicated t» the public on Friday
lall, three persons have deceased.
By order,
George TiUinghaJl, C. Clk.
At a town-council specially Isolden in and
for the town of Providetae, on Friday
the 15th of September, 1797.
Whereas numerous unfounded reports
have been circulated in t}ie country, re
fpefting the mortality of the fever prevail
ing in this town : To prevent the unfavour
able imprefiions which such reports are cal
culated to excite in the minds of our fellow
citizens in the country, this council have
direfted the following lift, containing the
whole number of the deceased, to be pub
lished. They at the fame time allure the
public, that no deaths have taken place since
the date of their last report, and tjjpt Ten
persons only arc now confined with the dis
order. ,
By order,
Ge(fgc TiUinghaJl, C. Clk.
Lift of pcrlolis supposed to have oeceafed of the
Yellow Fever.
Names. Ti«ie of decease.
Robert Fuller A-aguft 18
Mr*. Mitchtl, wife of Thos. Mltchel 18
Mrs. Gofs, wife of Goft 18
W illiatn T illinghafl 20
Mary Arnold, wife of James Arnold 40
Mercy Norrhop
Joseph Arnold, son of [ames 12
Jamn Arnold jj,
Reuben Porter if
Mary Tillinghaft, wife of Jos Tillinghaft 28
Lemuel Pitcher Sept. 1
Henry Tilliughaft, son of Joseph 3
Jirufha Townl'end 3
D liverance Haywood 3
Richard Gofs 1 11
Bmjamra Earle . XI
Jefeph Young 11
- ■- * ■ " -• - -
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
CADIZ, July II."
During three nights we have seen only
bombs fall on the town. Our cbaloupes and
small armed vessels -having advanced, have
prevented the enemy from reaching the
town. We receive affifiance of those vessels
from Seville and Carthagena, and we shall
soon have iqo. The most cautious mea
sures are taken for the fake of fafety.
At Cadiz the magazines below the walls,
which are bomb proof, have been converted
into places of refuge for the inhabitants.—
Death and immediate execution have been
proclaimed against whoever fhali commit
robbery. The town has offered 50,000
piastres, ar.d the merchants 100,000 as a re
ward to those seamen who shall att gallantly.
General Maffaredo has promifrd a thousand
piastres to the crew who shall take or fink a
British chaloupe.
The squadron is preparing to be in readi
aefs to go tQ sea. General Maffaredo has
informed the commanders of vessels, that as
soon as they shall have cleared the bay, he
will make the signal for forming the line,
which if any {hip disobeys, instantly the
commander lhall be arretted, and the second
in command /hall take charge of the (hip ;
if he {hall fail, the third, and so on.
The court has returned an anfwerby the
firft courier from general Maffaredo, and has
authorised him to aft according to circum
stances, with permifSbn to him to take in
Cadi* what money he wants, from the sums
offered by the merchants to the king. We
are assured, that the Spanish failot3 appear
to be much animated, two batteries being
now flnifted "and armed, and tartanes Being
prepared with 36 pouudbrs and furnaces for
red-hot balls. These precautions and means
of defence make us easy refpect;ng the at
tack' of the British.
From a Paris Paper of Augujl 5.
New addreflcs have been j>ubli(hed from
the arm) of Italy, which {hew with' what
dreadful fuccefu the minds of ail troops hate
been tampered with, against the Legislative
Body. It appear? clearly to day in he fol
lowing address froyi the diviiion of* General
Joubert:
" Royalifm raises his audacious head
and multiplies Murders in the Departments.
" Priesthood rafcinates the eyes; heats the
! heads, Sharpens the poniards. The execu
; tion of a plan combined for the re-e!tablifh
; mentoftiie Throne is openly followed jn the
| Legislature. One Liberticide law is fierce
ly passed when another is propbfed : The
Directory, who are entrusted with the "care
of our coriftitution, accepted by our ar
mies, and acknowledged by all Frenchmen,
; are accused without decency. • Charges arered agaiiiA yhe Civ!f;n wko ha 3 reri
dfered the mod ferricsjs, gnd who, a
this moiretit, ia intruded with the greatef
irVrtrefts, in order to crown the labours o
all the armies by a v j.;iorious peace, whici
tftiu'd cotifolidate the republic, and annihi
late all fadtions, and all parties except th
friends of the government.
*' Add to this rapid (ketch, t'he return o
the emigrants cn on which the nJetr
het> of.the Council congratulate themfelve
in their ft eeches ; riie cries of death—th'
dreadful bowlings of the Journalists of Louij
XVIII. and you will have the mournfd
pidtjire of the riling counteS-re volutions.
" What ! comrades, flia.ll we have fhec
much blood for the prosperity tfnd glor]
of our country, and yet fee it/again replun
ged into the disorders of anarchy—into th(
fury of civil wars. Shall the odious Capet.
who for fix years has carried his disgrace
from state to state, condantly driven before
our republican phalanxes,reduce us under the
yoke ? If this idea be disgusting to every
citizen who has hut once in his life been fti
mulatid love of his country, how
much more so mull it be to the old soldiers
of the republic,
" Volunteers of the army of the Interior,
the fame men whom you so often repulsed
on the B:«i)ks of the Rhine —whom you so
completeljjhumbled at Quiberon, are now
at Paris, and in the Departments ; they
form an "army in the presence of our own ;
firm to your obey the voice of
the Diredtory ; be faithful' to your glory #
MAKE A RAMPART OF YOUR BCvIEB
around the Coaditution, which you ha/e
sworn to maintain : and rely'upon
in the full conviction that (he never will fir
fake the republican colours."
In the address from gen. Serrurier's di
vision, the following passage is remarkable :
" Speak, Citizens Dlredtors, speak, and
instantly the mifenante who polluteihe foil
of the republic fhnll cease to ex id. Tojn
iiihilate them, it will doubtless 'be fuffici
ent to detach some of our brave brethren
in the armies of the Rhine and Moselle,
and of the Sambrp and Meufe ; it is ourde
fign to partake with them the honor of pur
ging France of her moll cruel enemies."
LONDON, July 16.
The lad Dublin papers announce, that on
Saturday evening, about seven o'clock, Ro
bert Thorntoii, F.fq. chief clerk of the house
of commons, put an end to his exiftcnce,
with a pistol, at his apartment in North
Earl-street, Dublin. No motive can be
conjectured for this raflj and melancholy ca
tastrophe. Mr. Thornton liai spent the lad
week on a visit with his friend and official
Secretary Cooke, at his
house in park, and usually carats
into town once a day ; he had breakfafted
the morning before with Mr. Secretary Pel
ham. He bad declared his intention of go.
England in a day or two ; and for a
fortnight past complained of a flight illness,
but nevertheless was apparently in good
health and spirits.
About five o'clock on the fatal evening,
he ordered his-horfe to be saddled, which
was accordingly done ; but his two servants,
on account of his state of mind, did not
choose to go into his room, but waited to be
called. A great ipace of time having elap
sed, and no appearance of his stirring, they
became alarmed, and agreed to go up (lairs
together. On opening the door they found
him lying on his face, and the whole floor
covered with blood. He had put the muz
zle of the pistol close to his head, at the
right fide, rather beyond the ear, and a com
plete division of the skull took place by the
explosion. His brains were scattered about.
The fight (hocking. It was not
without difficulty that the mangled head
could be reilored to its proper position, in
order that his person might be indentified
before the coroner's jury. Another pistol
lay- on the floor by his fide, and which he
mt'ft have had in his hand when he perpe
trated the rash deed. No one in the house
heard the pistol fire.
An inquefh was immediately -held—vet
didt Lunacy. He had about his person be
tween eighty and ninety pounds in gold,
and bank and accountable receipts in his
apartments to the amount of sixteen hun
dred pounds, lodgments for which it ap
peared he had made in the course of two
years past. Mr. Sheriff Lindfay, we hear,
took poflWlion of his property in order to its
being legally difp'ofed of.
Mr. Thornton, whose death is reported
in the lafl Irish papers, was a graridfon of
the last duke of Rutland but one, who had
a very large family by a lady with whom he
cohabitbd for several years, and who con
tinued to v live with him to the time of h'ia
death.
PARIS, August 2.
Thete are uow 18 (hips of the line in
Tire ft harbor, ready for fca, with a
quantity of frigates.
The diredtory has come to a resolution,
that the Palais Royal (hall no longer exist
in its present state, but (hall be converted
into different streets.
General Hoche has set out for Rhcims.
We are assured that he will form a camp un
der the walls of that city, and the army he
is to comjnand for a fecrct expedition, is said
to amount to 22,000 men. I?Eclair.
Blood has again been shed at Tours. A
conflidt has taken place, in which the jaco
bins have been defeated, and two of them
killed.
Fifty or sixty bombs have been thrown
into Cadiz, which have forced about 30,00 c
of the inhabitants to fly.
- Red Port Wine.
Just arrived, by the brig Iris, capt Rhode*, from
Oporto, (
Red Port Wine in ?nd Quarter calks
6c cwt. Cork, for Tale by i
Philips, Cramond, & Co. 1
July 2T. § <
hich r\ PHILADELPHIA,
nihi- / SATURDAY EVk NIN'G, Sepiev:be_r 21.
' Philadelphia, Sept. 18, 1797.'
•a ofjl Bjr,
leti•-I nave to acknowledge the receipt of you
■lve 1 f a X or °'~ the 16th, in reply to which th;
—th Boardliave requested me to inform you tha
oui 1 a3 t Dodtor Leib .is provided by the Boart
nfu Wlt h a horse and chair, they cannot con
| crive any serious consequences can pofllbli
(he<A! an so as to endanger the inhabitants o
loryV Germantown, thediftance frqni the city be
lon- } '"g so niort . "and as no cases of a dang-eroui
the Wuw havens yet occurred, they conceive
E T) ™' s appointment fufficient. The repo-ts
race f rom the 16th to this date tire favourable
fore an<IICIS w'th much fatisfadlion that I can
the ' n f°rm you that the present appearance of
rery ate our clt y wears a plealing afpedt.
I have the honor to remain
ww with much refpedt, Sir,
j crs your moll obedient .
humble servant,
; or> Wm. MONTGOMERY,
|f e d Chairman pro tem.
Iso T ,° Excellency Governor Mifflin,
iow / Germantown.
hey, /
J.V . No. 11.
■ o f/^s. lin " nicat ' ons from the commiflionVs to
... / the Governor. \
J SlR '
are com ph'ance with a resolution of ttlis
Board as intimated in our forneer report to
"I r l ' y™) we stated the probability of our
j ditures doubling itfelf, already is that coh
| jedture verified by our having relieved in the
f . ! last week fix hundred and fifty eight persons,
ind c^le ®)' heads of f-imilies, with' five hundred
f o jj I and ninety five dollars and fifty cents, be
pn- Hde« a considerable quantity of bread, and
ici- a ' ,out f ,ve hundred and twenty persons of
rcn various occupations who were thrown out of
U e employ and left destitute of l'ubfiftence for
thenifelves and families, have been paid at
ur „ the rate of seventy five cents per day for
. work done on the roads, See. And here
permit us to remark that the Board of Com
miflioners> taking the state of their funds in
on to consideration, refolvedthat they would
to- a '^ ow '* ut fifty cents P er <l*7 to the work
men to commence on the 18th inft. and that
committees (hould be appointed to wait on
the men to inform them of the neceflity of
k c the measure being adopted, and we have the
„ :l _ fatisfadlion to inform you (and to their cre
dit be it mentioned) it was acquiesced with
|a l by the people, and great harmony and so
, ■ btiety prevail through rhe whole of the
workmen. *
ed Withpleafure we inform you, that Frank
lin Wharton, John Gardner, jun.
_ o _ Clifton, jun. Thomas Anderfon and James
1 3 Olddcn, have generously offered their af
fillance to the Commiflioners to superintend
oc | the teats near Schuylkill ;■ and by their re
turns we have to supply two hundred and
fifteen persons daily with rations, amounting
to thirty-five dollars and fifty-fix cents per
t j day ; and we also acquaint you that health
and good regulation prevail there.
The guardians of the poor having gene
" rally left the city, a great number of those
' _ who depended on them for relief, are be-
; r _ come objedts of our attention : A commit
|)cj tee has been appointed by us to wait on the
or mayor of the city to provide means of relief
y for them ,that our funds may not be applied
• more than can be avoided, to any other cb-,
jedts than the legislature contemplated. !
| ie From the general knowledge of the real'
and universal poverty that prevails amongst
the mechanics and laborers of this city and
suburbs, we are led to conclude that their
j fufferings will continue long after the di
sease may abate, and fHat the.y will thereby
be deprived of the means to meet the ap-.
proaching winter.
By order of the Board,
ROBERT WHARTON,
Chairman.
To Thomas Mifflin, Esq. Govrrnor of the
\ State of Peunfylvania. ,
State House, Philad. 1
/ Sept. j"
The following donations were received from
the under-mentioned persons, for the poor
at the tents; —
William Lippincott, 20 bushels of potatoes
Geoi'ge Latimer, one load of ft raw
j Thomas Cuthbert, • one do.
Peter and Henry Miercken,one barrel sugar
j William Hunter, one load of straw, four
bushels potatoes
e William Johnfton, a quantity of vegetables '
.* George Sterling, one hundred loaves of
* bread
Publilhed by order of the committee.
JAMES OLDDEN.
n The Editor of the Aurora lately had 1
a some remarks on Jervis's attempt on Cadiz, '
which (hew his supreme ignorance of the
1, laws of war. It is idle to inveigh against \
ft pradtifes fandtioned by the usage of ages. *
d Philanthropy reprobates war not merely in '
its details, but altogether ; and in the burn- '
5. ing of a town ev"en of an enemy, the hu- '
1- mane mind is wrung with anguish and pity ,
e at the miseries of the wretched fufferers.
d Every body knows that the commissions of
naval commanders, run—" to take, burn, J
V fink and destroy," and that this is common
to all nations. Whatever policy didtates,
1 it is generally in vain to decry. The inhu
manity of the pradtice is indifputahle ; but
n our indignation (hould revert to t-hc cause of
2 such calamities on the human race—to the
French —the authors of t!)is horrid, mod '
- unprincipled, piratical treacherous war,
that ever blackened of a state
pretending to civilization. As to the
Spaniards, let Jacobins pity them :—their
sterile and cowardly pity is all they deserve.
, Their treachery in fir ft deferring a deferring
ally who has always facrificed he'rfelf to
them, and afterwards turning their arms
againd her, will deservedly fubjedl them to s
1 the ftvfiri'fctiaftlfcment which an indign;
people can' inflidt. But the peculiar c
cumilailces of their cafe is fach, thai
pity them would be to partake of th
cowardice. (hips of the line bloc
Hp thirty-three, i:i their own port, a
st some tlioufar.d miles distance from t
of the former the latter with si
to arsenals and magazines, and aid
» r moreover by tremendous fortificatior
' IE wliofe batteries can opp'ife the five of
a ' thiufend to 'atiy attempt of the Briti
Or / Cl!
lv
V FROM THE AURORA.
of
e_ " Mark the inconsistency of. the Briti
fa£l:on ; at one moment they tell you, th;
' c f^e Republican papers in this country a;
f 8 Supported by French gold ; and the nex
■ e that those papers have flipped and will _/?•„
" f»r want of support. The story of five r.
' publican papers liaving.Jlopped, however, m
'• believe to be invented to introduce the -wi
remarks of the Frederiektown fcribbier ; w
have heard of no fucb Jluppage. The fat
we believe is, that the sentiments of the pec
pie are so completely with the republica
prefles; that they are in no danger o? bein
" broke up ; and on the hand ; that thof
of an opposite tendency are. like wife ftcure
as long as William Pitt has tlie contrtiul o
ver John Bull's purse."
a Prove to a Jacobin, at any time, thi
baseness of his own faction, and you wil
immediately hearof" British fa&ion,"" th<
; gold of Pitt," &c. See, The people, fay
3 the above fcribbier, are with the repubKcai
. pre lies. If he means what he fays, it h
true. But it is neceTTary to translate thii
fl an X ' n '° plain Engliih, Republicinifrr
> meanp any thing or nothing : the wprd ha;
1 filched by the anarchical and
■ is employed by them to oomr thst-Überti
J cide designs : It is conftantjy raadf ofe of,
' to designate that venal fa&ion which is kepi
' alive in this country by French gold. Tc
r alTert then, that the people are disposed tc
- Second this French fa&ion, is a flanden
r which, tho' it comports with the whole tenoi
of the Aurora, is too gross to be borne b)
"; an independent people. The people art
! with the fa&ious prefles !—that is to lay,
| inclined to surrender their independence tc
the devouring republic ! Gross and scandal
• ous libel! Know, caitiff, that the Federal
I' republican prefles are in unison with the peo
ple, their own people, the people of Ameri
ca—And that if they (hun one foreign powei
in disgust, it is not to give themselves up tc
1 deftruftion from another. What is there in
the French nation, forfooth, that we Ihould
rusk into her arms at the hazard, nay cer
tainty, of being (queezed to death ? Are
not her hands still reeking with blood from
the murder of all those Frenchmen who were
1 valuable—all those who were our benefaftors:
But (lie is a sister republic—'-Yes, as opposite
to our own, as truth and falfehood, virtue
and vice, light and darknefs.—ln our land,
no thanks to our Jacobins,wc have hithertc
preferred those valuable inllitutioni of our
forefathers upon which our republic is found
e<l—But there, the holy Standard of the
j Cross has been hurled prostrate in the dud
—Reason has exiled from the land,
and irrationality, like a fhamelefj (trumpet,
assumes her name and eredls the brazen front
in her stead. The fanes of infidelity, the
(brines of atheism, and the altars of idolatry,
are (till heaped with incense by the loose and
giddy throng. The fair farm of Virtue,
ever confined to the breafls of a few, is no
! longer known at all, or peeps otn her feared
head but to be hooted out of 'countenance.
" To what a height will human madtiefs
rife, or where will impious daring fix its
bounds!" While tyranny is inveighed a
gainst with Stentorfan lungs - no l effort is
left untried to reduce mankind tinder the ar
; binary influence of anarchy, the'Tvorft of
all her numbcrlefs forms.
In the name of .liberty and
all liberty and all equality have Leum annihi
lated—and licentioufrtfs, with defolatihg
hand, spreads ruin around. is the
condition of that .Iqtpp'ihffs ,fb'e
Jacobifls wish us to (hare,.
" P«>"l< impious man ! tbjnilU thou yon fun
guine cloud,
Rait dby . thy breath, kits quer:ch J d the orb of
day ?
T he repairs the golden flood,
Hct inarms the nations ivitb rtdoubled ray
GAZETTE jTsIRINE LIST.
New Tori, September 22.
* ARRIVED, DAYS
Ship Nejlor, Rogers, Curracoa 24.
Scbr. A'ltncy, Black, Richmond 8
Sloop Commerce, , St. Croix 11
Capt. Rogers, Sept. 18, spoke a febooner from Penobf
ft, E. Coven, mitfler, bound to NorfM.
Captain Lewis, tf the brig Alfred of ibis port, ar
rived here on H r e.tnefday evening, ttta Philadelphia, from
Port du P taken on tbe jth ult. by a fmr.ll priva
teer xvitb ont gun, full of men, principal black ; tuas
underfleet iig fails within -tbree leagues of Cape Nicbtla
JVlole, IUJS carried into Jean Reabell, bit papers Xrken
from bim and sent .(a. tbe Cape, and he mut-b ulttfed and
insulted; 12 aayt after, bis condemnation of v'jfcl and
cargt arrived. Captain Le-.vitt informs, £is tiot pcfjible
to tell theJbanteful treatment tbe Americans receive from
tbe f rends, ivbtt conjider tbemfclvCs at open ivar luitb
this counbt y ; from Ito 3 vessels per day Mr. trot in and
condemned, many bound to tbeir ports, asid cond.mtted if
their cargoes are of any valut.
Lifl of veJK-lt at Port au'Paix, cotJt' ii.d a :td
Waiting 'trial,
isbip Tito S.jiers,frbm Po-t-a.u Pi -cc, condemned.
Pene'ope, frim Charlcjlon, •waiitng trial.
Coddef of Plet-ty, from Philadelphia, do.
Btig Defiance, frcm Xc.tijTttrk, condemned.
Harmony, do. do,
Na'.hattiel, from Norfolk, do.
Ratstbler, from Philadelphia, trial.
Haniet. font Buitimore, do.
Scbr. Tetman ( from Philadelphia, condemned.
Ragle, wv do do.
Alt'iope, do dp. do.
Ardent, from Baltimore, condemned.
Ehzj ■ from fererttie^-do.
Perfet erwee, from Cbari.ffon, do.
Polly, do. do. do,
Polly, from North Carolina, .//.
Lttcy. from 80/ ion, trial.
, Hazard, ft ant do.
' Re.brefs, from *. . eoniLnmed.
Sloop Polly, from Alcjc.tvdria, do
ant! • - In y«rn Kaittt. •
,!r- j r 'S °fi" n » f ra "n Philadelphia, condefh*t£.
to ' '^ c^o}ner f rcm do. t bound to Gottaives, ivi'b avi
. >ual!s cargo waiting trial, andwwfd, without dJubt, <
condemned.
-k- Captain Black ivas I oar Jed off the Capes of Delatoai
fid l>y n Frenchprivateer, and detained t'jrce hours—they ha
he J"ft tuiena brig injeard bound, and bihnged to Fhi lade
:ee j ' Bojlon, Sept. 19.
I'd Arrived febooner Aurora, B/ightman, Si. Th:ma.
via St. Vincents, 16 'days Left 'at tb bri
' i Sm-tlly of hoflon, for the Htrvannuh. Captai.
3 Bright/nan h;ts jive unfortunate Atflrican cafitdins paj
till ftigt'Sy lid)a harje been taken and plundered of their pro
p«rty, by the French.
Same day, /sip Portland, Scorer, Calcutta, 169 days
Auonll }t, Jf'ohe -brig Kitty, Dillen, from Ralii wore, fin
J1 r iri'jfa, ja dgyt (Alt in lat. 32, ll.ljng. 63.
/ •/>/// £ 6 feii in t'. 'th iif ivrctk if tb
fl] brit /prfaiuii'jn, 'Starr, of New-London, 22 day: oil
Jit when foundered. Captain mate and three of the crew
re i&wit on board a •vrfil for Si. ■'Thomas, / remainder ia
' dipreddtivHs of the French and Spanijh cruizers on
>p our commerce, exceed all precedent fjr extent and irtjufiice
e- LapPqii h' ye r from St -Ub es has fxrniflced Us with aI if
re V prizes, at Algeziras. fitly 23, whi, b
se VJas t° Portugal by Captain Hopes of NeivYork'
If follows :
+i p E tza, Tamer, of Bbjion, from London % vcff.l
and argo Hbel.d; Lr tg Ninky, Broty t, cf do. itejjel and
>- eargo condemned by the French Consul; brig Mary, Bum
-11 hatJ. xf Boflori, cargo condemned, vessel libelled; brig
rr RyJ'cid-, A rnfmdn, <?/' Bofion, vessel and cargo libelled;
>-r,«o- Hack,, t Hall, of New. York, vessel and cargrbn
detuned: fioiv South libelled by the
Consul. J
e FwiUin, iters, from hence arrived ffe at
Dublin; and the Thcmas, Fern aid, at Brifo'.
ft M( *r&vrg, Aagufl I. Asia, Lamb; Jihn
: Folrer; Per ion, Diana, and Union, Blake, for Boflon.
j The Juno, of Port/mouth ; and Catherine, of New
-11 bur\po)t have been carried into Nantes.
e | The Sally, kVadfivorih. from ketrci' for Hcmhurg, is
s carrjed iilfo the If, 0 f JUee.
1 'he Afary t Hum., y from hence for Naples, ts carried
into Nauics.
Norfoll, Sepl. 16.
sir rived.
1 j Si'/i F.lio, nitfort, Martinique.
= j If rig George md Mory. Davity.y, Bel/aJI
1 I Scb. Rrfululion, Barjieby, Nwvafcotia.
•Tpe Jhip Lav ma, captam Lronn, belonging to Phila*
Mfbia, Pit in here u: TburfJay in iijlrcfi, havhgfpnrg
' a leal at fta abtui five -rteeh age, on her fij/f j ;f from
l.iverfjolfor flji aJe'.fbia. Her cargo, etnfijimg prin
) eipally of fait ai d Jry go*],, it u feared, 'is nnfiderably
■) damaged.
\ ]>y this day's Mail.
' NEW YORK, September 22.
J Yesterday arrived here the ftiip Nestor,
_ Captain Rogers, from Curracoa. Just be
j fore he failed, which was on the 26th of
. August, a sloop had arrived there from Le
_ guira with the news of an infurredtion on
r the Spanish Main—and that the lnfurgents
j had taken the fort at Lcguira. Their ob
, jest, it seems, is to obtain a free trade upon
fimilar footing with other ports belonging
_ to Europsan powers. Tfteirplanis extensive,
, has been long in agitation, and is well di
j gefted.
. Captain Rogers has no .doubt of the abote
? intelligence, for he conversed with several
, gentleman on the fukjeft, who Were on the
Main at time of the explosion.
Yesterday arrived in this city from Que
, bee, thehon. Lady Johnson, Lady of
his Lxctilency Sir John JohnfoD, Governor
. General of the Upper Canada, accompanied
, by ' ie r two daughters.
t
( BOSTON, September 19.
t Capt. Timothy Newman, of
ryport, is appointed to the command of
, tht Crcfcent frigate, at Portsmouth, delign
ed for the Dey of Algiers. She is almost
I equippeir.
A gei:tleman from New-Haven informs
11s, that at the anniversary cofhmencement
of Yale college, observed I aft. week, the
degree of Do6tor of Laws .was conferred
on his hon. Jolm Trumbull, Lt. Gov. of
Connefticiit ; and the degree of Doftor
in Divinity, on Billwp Watson, of Lon
don, Ci(hop Jarvis, of Connefticut, and
the Rev. David Ofgood, of Medford.
Thursday, the 12th day of October
next, is fixed for the execution of Stephen
Smith, a black itian, now under sentence
of death.
Died, at Lisbon, on the sth of March
last, to the great regret of all who knew
him, capt. Timothy Rogsrs, aged 31, a
native of Gloucester, Cape Ann, and a
much esteemed, gallant offlcer in the earl
of St. Vincent'* fleet.
Honest, benevolent and brav*, he ingra-.
tiated himfelf wherever he went. By his
merit he had risen to be a master and com
mander in the British navy, and was uni
versally .regarded as an jirnament to the
service. With the bright profpeft of rapid
promotion before him, he was suddenly ar
retted in his career by a violent consumption,
occasioned by an extraordinary exertion in
the line of his duty ; and after a ftort ill
ness resigned his breath to the supreme
Ruler of the universe.
HAY-MARKET THEATRE.
Te -nit rrow evening, Sept. wiil be pr»ntcd
3 comeciy, calldl. SUCH THINGS ARE * or,
'the i'iAri: 'of the World I V. hii'h willb-.' aVl
ced a Muncal Piece in one ac 2, never yet perform
ed, i-aUed
J he ij. AUNCH ; or, 'Huzza for the Crrjt'. ulion.
Written fcyjoKN Hodgkinsok.
The wholtf win conclude with a striking repre
fentatian of Launching the New frigate ConHitu
tion. Boars parting and rtpalßng on the wat r. :
Vitw up the river of' harleftown and the neighbor- '
iiyr country, taken. correJi l.y from Jeffrey and Uuf- 1
fei'a wharf the fccusry pri:.eipa!ly executed by '
Mr. JeffL/fon. 1
Ked Grog, Mr. Ilodgk'infon ! Constant, Mr. '•
Tyler ; Old Ltiinp-ion, Jolnjfon j Old liunker, '
Mr. Mir-to ; Tack with a Hornpipe; '
Mr joTcrfou ; lom Bowli' g, Mr. Lee ; iaan
Fok caSle, Mr. Leptiard ; irifhnvni, Mr. Fawcett ; t
Scotchman, Mr. Mitle' : and Marlian, Mr. Martin. -
Mrs. i-jxington, Mrs. Brett ; and Mary, Mil'-
3iett.
CHARLESTON, Sept. 6. j
An ele&ion was held 011 Monday and i
yesterday, for a member of CofigrdTs for \
Charleston diftiifc>, vice Willinrn Smith, 1
Esq. appointed miniftev p!enipot«fltiary to i
Portugal.
Oii closing the pole tliere. r.pper.red for
Mi'j'Jr Thomas Pinckney, 337 \otes.
» anAoini'tus.—
PHILADELPHIA,
I" SATURDAY Eri-KWG, /.KPTEMBER.
Z r CITY HO ' I{ P I TAL REPORT,
W From tV s f-, d t0 2 3d Kept, in the morning.
Admitted, face last report,
Edward Mager, Market street wharf.
~v xvacbacl Teunet, 4lgi> Frigate, So. Water
\iri It reet.
J Antlion.y Jofi, !• rafis ib's, Shippetl fired",
between 2d and Front street. '
„ Jdhmfon, flup Glasgow, Jones'*
■ or wharf.
4- Charlotte Brown, Burn's, Water street,
near Drawbridge.
;\eily Dnnkln, 87, So. Watei- street,
a M'LaugKltn, corner Shippen aud id
street.
>1 Died, fitrce last report,
' Elizabeth Smith, admitted 20th inft.
r Elizabeth Cotter, 19th
Caty Culinel, 19 hours a%r admiflion.
Barney O'Neal, , 9th inft .
Richard Davis, j- t |,
J James Stutton,
Edward
' Remaining last Report rg
e Admitted since,
' 6"
, ■/ Discharged NONE
Died -j pj
Remain inHofpital, | $ g
, Four of whom are dangerous.
Inferred in City Hospital burying ground
since last report :
From the city and suburbs 10
Frpm the city hospital 7
• Total 17
. _ Stephen G-rArd,
(Signed) Caleb Lownes,
John -CowiiELLY.
PubKfhed by order of the Board,
WM. MONTGOMERY",
Chairman protem. ,
Total of tunals for 24 hours, ending ytjlcr*
day at noon.
, . Grown Perfom. Children.
Firfl Presbyterian 1 o
r Third Presbyterian t t »
German Reformed r , I
Swedes 1 0
1 City Hospital* 9 a
5 Kcnfington 1 t
1 . * Total 1 4 3.
■From the city and suburbs %
> ALEXANDRIA, Sept. I<?.
In the Winchester CentJtel of the IJth irfft. %
the following paragraph : « One tlay hit weak the
, l Jon ' Senator Blount'.i ar Carey ".v:i£ Conveyed
j through this town to Philadelphia, It is t» he ho
-1 ped the Committee ot jC'-ngrefr, before vrhwn ha
; is to appear, will obtain from him some pnekus tu«-
fejpmt."
Then; are several veflels at the fort belrtwthe
t town P««ormiiig quarantine, from Philadelphia".
Providence (Rhode-lfland) Baltimore, an-! Nor
r folk. On beard one of the veffsis from Providence
1 a paflVnger who lad been taken ii, at.Norfolk, died
yertcrday with a'lthe symptoms of the ytfiow fever.
There are people lick on board some of the other
veCfels. Through the btim«:ie.attention ef the lu
perintrndant of. quarantine, we hew that that a
■ veflej is procured to be ffatirihed a coKljdeiablc dis
tance bei»w, for the re; eption of the fuk.
NORFOLK, September 14.
Died, on Monday last, Mr. Ashtqh
Re a, late ot Hampton^
Wednefclay morning, of a very short ill
ness, Mr. Daniel Henery, merchant of
Baltftnore.
Last, night Mr. Lyon, of Alexandria.
This morning, Mr. Nathaniel Eus
tace, inertliant, formerly of Boston.
CHARLESTON, September 2.
Died, on Friday morning, after a short
but painful iUoefs, Mr. Joseph Fonlke, na
tive of Philadelphia, aged 26 years ; he is
much lamented by all his frieuds ac
quaintances.
September 4.
Yesterday arrived the armed feboonev ~
Amiable, Frith, Bermuda, 17 days.
On Thm-fday last, captain Frith fell in
with the privateer schooner Grouper, off the
coast. She fuppofiiig capt. Frith Would
prove too powerful for her, hauled her wind
and flood off.
Rice Birds are a delicacy nearly eqyal to
ihe Ortolan. Permit, me, therefoie, Messrs. •
Printers, to ask the planters why the mar
kets of Cbarlefton are not, at this feafor.,
constantly fuppjied with them p For your
correspondent is petfuaded that they'will
paj' ivcll for powder and (hot. )
September 6.
A letter from New-York, dated the 18th
of August, mention that Mr. Liancourt,
"(formerly the Duke de Liancourt Rocht-
K«ucr.ult) has received permission to return
to France, and that he was about to embark
in a few days. "
C USTO M-HO
I'biluielpbitt, S'pt. aid, 17,97.
THE Merchant* whp at this time prefer hav
ing vefleia and Merchandize eiMired and *
cleared at Ci.eikr or Marcus Hook", —are here
by r.otiSfcdj 1 ha; in coiilpfiance with their V- '
lire, aixl upon a full conviction that the nieafure
will tie n.utuaily benefieial to them and tp'ths
United 1 Stattj. 7"% eollefloi of the' cuftfemihas
made arrangeiiicm* to-efunlifh for some tims
biaayliesj of the ea'.cm-hi.ule at t'nofe pbcer,
v. lu re every his p.-, Wcr wiii
be g:veil o t'he merchants. " diw
—V- '
_ *** A special Meetinj of the
• elect and cemnnin - Councils of the City of
is to be held at the Pennfyfvania
Holpiui c;i Tu't.fdty t)« inft. at 5 o'clock
tne morning y.tt btifwefj ot lmpoi tar.ee, at
wm.-h place it is Iropei the members will at
tend-<-the Hospital being clear of the prevailing
fever. b
FRANCIS GURNEY, Pre Went
of the felrifl eNuncil.
SAMUEL HODoDON, Prefi.
dent »f the
Sept. ii d i£rivE Dollars reward.
\ AN awHv fvoni t!i~ fubferiber, art ixfdeiltcd
• V Servant GKI» rahwd Nanc? Andkksom, a
fcoik twenty cf age, fiiort, t.hiclt ftft psrfon,
black hair ; had on when {he weot away,
n dark cilico,go\vn, an old blade iilk cloak, and a
1 j-.ck fnr hafr. Wkoetcr wit J fciccrc laid girl, and
ive iidnfmatiou thereof to two hib/cribtr, Ko. 2,
Grfrr.k - j\lky, or to tlie oilicc of this
ihail »-.yr ti\e above reward.
All p£rfo*6 are forbicf harboring said gitl, as
they will Ue <ieult wjrh as tl\e law-<lirpd«
- MARY ANDERSON,
N. B. Said Girl k f(om Ireland, and has been i»
this country but a fliort time ; fh*: was it tit to the
\vork-houfe for where ihe was taken
Celt snd removed to the city*-hofpit»i, from l which
place fltcc niade her escape.
Ansruj} 3Q' eo^t .
To be fold at Public Vendue,.
To the highest bidder, at the house of Mr.
William Evans, the sign of the Indian
Qyecn, in the city of Baitjmore, oil the 15th
tl.iv'-of' CJtSober ne*t, as 11 o'clock, A. M
About ltven th.»ufand acres of lanil,
the pjoptrty of V illiam Dell, of Philadelphia,
lying etween town and Wellminl\er,
commoTily called Lit tie Wiivhefter, (the turn
pike road runs through a confidarable part o!
these lands) the tra<st begins about 17 miles
from Maitimore, within a few handled yards
of Lid l'eiller's-iowil, aud extends to the dil
tance of about twenty-three miles from Balti
more, and lie* on the main falls of Patapfieo
river, from three to four miles, thereon. Will
be fold in trails or one hundred and fifty to
three hundred acre. There is a large propor
tion 0/meadow and wood land on each trail,
fonie of them highly improved, with excellent
buildings and fine gr.-fs.
ALSO
A tratt of seven hundred acres of
land, called Clover Farms, with'lft five miles of,
Biavtenfhurg, efleemed very gocd for Grass, j
Richard Ponfonby,of Blidenfburgh, will (hew
this land to any person incliued to purchase.
also, '
A traft of land of about three hun
dred and thirty acres> within about two miles
and a half or th'e'Pi efideittV house in the Fede- j
ral City. It it nearly all wood land, and-a fine :
hich profpeil, fron. which may be fcen the |
city of Washington, Bladenfburgh, Alexandria
and a part of George-town, and many miles
down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard Ponfon
by, of liladenfburg, will also shew this land.
A liberal credit will be given for the greatcft
part of the purchase money. •he terms will
be made known on the day ef sale.
May 8
Just Received,
From Batavia(viaProvidente)
a few Box«sof Spices, coflfifting of
Nutmegs, Clovesand Mace
For sale by
KILLINGS & FRANCIS,
Pcnn. flreet.
May 30 > dtf
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 319, High-it reel.
GEORGE DAVIS,
BEING busied -for fom« time pafr in prepara
tions for removing into his profent house, has
been under thencceilityot poftponinguntil this day
informing the genth-men ofthe Bar generally thro'
the United States, that his spring importation of
law books is now arranged and reaJy tor lale, on
termitbat he trolls willfntitlehim to the like pre
freence he has experienced for fcveril years pad.
Catalogues, combining the mod varied collec
tion evrr imported i/*.to this country, are printed
and will be di livered on application
juuesT; 6w
City Commijfioners'' Office,
June 11, 1797.
IN ptirfuance of an ordinance from the feleft
and common councils, pafled the 2id day of
May last, appointing the city commifiioners,
and preferring their duties, feiilion 9th,
NOTICE IS HEKEBY GIVEN,
That the city 16 divided into five diftriifks,
each to be under tht luperintendance of one of
the citv commifiioners, whoistobe individually
relponfible for the cleanliness of the fame, and
are as follow.
Driflri<fl No. I. From the south fide of Ce
dar-flreet, to the north fide ofSpruce-flreet,un
derthe fuperistendence-of Nathan Boys.
i. From the north fid<! of Spruce-street, to
the north fide of Walnut-street, under the fuper
irttendence of Hugh Roberts.
•5. From the north fide of Walnut to the south
fide of High-flreet, under the superintendence of
Joseph Claypoole.
4. From the ryorth fi<>e of High-flreet, to the
north fide of Mulbe r rv street, under the fupcr
iiitcndenct cf Willia'ni Vloulder^
5. From the north fide of Minnerry-ftreet to
the north iide of Vine-flreet, under the super
intendence of Nicholas Hicks-
The cleaningof High -fireet to be in common.
£5" A Hated meeting of the city commifiion
ers is held at the Old Court House, in Hiijh
fireet, evpry Tuesday evening at 5 o'clock.
July t4. eoim
Stands for Draymen, SsV.
In p'trjuance of an Ordinance from theSeleif and
Common Council,blaring date the lid daj of
ylprit, x 797, providing for the appointment of
City Commiffiontrs, iZc. St 3. the i;lb.
'"•"'HE following places are fixed upon by the
JL said City CommifEoners for, Stands for
Draymen and their Horses.
In Vine-llree(, eaflward of Front-street, on
both fides. s
SalTafras, High, Chefiiut and Walnut-fttreets,
eillward of Front-street, on the no'.-th fide only.
Mulbfcrry-Jlrcet, south fide from Front to
Thii'd-flreet.
Front-ftre«t, east fide from Vine-flreet to
El/Vith's alley.
Frontiftreet, from opposite to Black Horse al
ley to Hamilton's stores, east fide.
Water-street, weft fide from the north end of
Stumper's or Moorf's stores to Pine-street.
Penn-ftreet from Pine to Cc Jar-street, weft
fide
Drawbridge, north fide, east of Front-ftrect.
Spruce,"Pine and South flreets, east of Front
street, south fide.
Dock-street, between Walnut-lfrett and the
flag flone croffiogs, east fide, opposite George
°Second-ftreet, between S.fTifras and Vine
ftrecte, weft fide.
Fifth-ftreit, east fide from Chefnilt to Mul
berrv streets.
S»'ffafraß-tt««t, from Third to Fourth-street,
east tide- „ . , . . > - ,
No dray or horse to stand within ten feet of
"IS, for hackney coaches,
P"me-ftr«et, north fide from Fourth to Fifth
between Chefnut and Walnut
ftr branch.ftreet, north fide, between Third and
Fourth flreets. e
, , ~ mw&tim
July 14-
k Literary Ti l eat.
Jujt puZli/bed, handfomsly printed on writing
paper, price I dollar,
A new edition of that popular rind entertaining
. work, entitled .
FORESTERS, an American Tale ; being
i a lVqucl to the hiftoxy Of John Bull, the Clo
thier—ln aftrieiof letters to a friehd, with thcad
dition of two letters, alluding to recent political
:ranfaisHo%in America.
Th« following extrai£). from the Clavis Allt'gorica,
shews the pripefpal characters that are introduced:
John Bull, the Kingdom of England
His Mother, theCfurchof Eng'und
His Wife, the Parliament
His Sifter P(g, the Church (if
His brother Patrick. Ireland
Lewis, the Kingdom of France
Hjs Miftrefc, the Old C'onftitution
His nsw Wife, the National Representation
Lord Strut, the Kingdom of Spain
Nicholas Frog, the Dutch Republic
The Franks, the French Republic
The FWefters, the United states of Amcri<a
Robert Lumber, New-Hamplhire
John Codline, Massachusetts
Humphrey Plowlhare, Conne&icut
Roger Carrier, Rhode I (land
Peter Bull Frog, New-York
Julius Casfar, New-Jerf«y
William Broadbrim, Pennsylvania
Caflimar, Delaware
Walter Pipewood, Virginia
Hi« Grandson, George WafhingtoH
Peter Pitch, North Carolina
Charles Indigo, Sodtk Carolina
George Trusty, Georgia
Ethaii Greenwood, Vermont
Hunter Longknife, Kentucky
Black Cattle, Negro Slaves
Rats, Speculators
Mother Carey's Chickens. Jacobins
•£y"This popular and entertaining satirical biflo
ry of America is attributed to the Rev. Dr Bel
kn ap. It hasagr«at (hare of originality and a
bonnds with genuine humour. It is continued
down to the present time, and chara<Sterifes those
late political tranfa&ions which havs caused so
much uneasiness in America.
Sold by H. and P.RICE, Bookseller, No. 16,
South Second Street, and No. jo, Markc' ftjeet.
June 16. §
LAW BOOKS,
Latest London and Dublin Editions.
H. 1$ P. RICE, Booksellers,
No. 16, South Second, and No. 50, Market street,
HAVE just received by the' late arrivals from
London and Dublin, theii spring importa
tion, confiding of a variety of the latest and most
approved law Books, which, added to those alrea
dy 011 hand, forms the most extensive colleition ev
er offered for sale in this country. They thei efore
beg leave to notiu 1 , that from the nature of their
connexions in Dublin, they are enabled to felllrilh
editions (as they have hitherto at the very
lowest prices. The following arc among the latest
publications.
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, 1 vol*.
Peake's Cases at Nisi Prius ; Ridgeway's Reports
in the time of Lord Hardwicka ; Floyer's Probers
in the Eccleflaflical Courts; Barton's
Treatifc on a Suit in Equity ; Tidd's Practice of
the Court of King's Bench in Pcrfonal Ailions, 1
parts complete ; Ward's Law »f Nations ; Cruise
on Uses ; modern Reports, 1 % vols. London edi
tion.
H. and P. Rice expefl ta receive by the firft ar
rival from 'New-York the 6th vol. complete of
Durnford ani East's Reports, the 4d part of Gil
bert's Law of Evidence hy Loft, and a number of
new publications.
June 16. !
The History of Pennl'ylvania,
By ROBERT PROUD,
IS now ij the press, and will be published,
with all convenient expedition, by ZtCHA
riah Poulson, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will centinue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed projjol'als, until
work i 9 ready for the fubferibers.
Juiy 18. mwtf ]
Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co.
A r o. 8 Chefnut-Street,
Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly afiorted, very low on
short credit. »
March 6. §
Richard and James Potter
HAVE removed their Counting House to No.
45, South Fifth-ftreet.
Huguft 1. w&f6t
Lancaster, Harrijlrurgh Carli//e,
Shippenjburg and Sun bury
STAGES.
THE public are recfuefted to take that
the partnerlhip which ha 9 far some time sub
sisted between Mathia* Slough of Lancaller, and
William Geer, is now dilTolved ; bat, not as M.
Slough infinuatesto the public without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fub
jed from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 19th
December last. a recital of which is not nfiw deem
ed necessary. Any gentleman who wishes to be
more circumstantially informed of the merits of
this bulinefs, by applying to W. Geer may have
the perusal «f M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfe&ly 'jaftifishie in attaching him
felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
public were pleased to confer on the firft effort in
this business, William Geer, in conjunction with
Messrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention and dispatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can poflibly exert.
The above company, who arc amply provided
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
render the pa(Tage fafe and commodious, inform
those wnu wi/h to patronitc and encourage the
undertaking, that fhey can take their feats at
George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg,
Carlisle and Shff penfburg. The fare as hitherto
established.
For the further accommodation of the public,
a Stage will start every Wednesday from the hcufe
of Samuel F.lder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
and return from thence and arrive at Harrilburg
every Saturday, so that passengers destined for
Lancaftcror Philadelphia, may proceed o.a Mon
days.
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaller. Jan. 27, 1797.
N. B. This Line of Stages starts from ths
house of William Ferruc, in Lancaftcr, on every
Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock; pro
ceeding to the westward; ahd from the house of
Mr. Samuel Kldi-r in Harrifburg every Wednes
day morning, 011 the fame evenirjg arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippwifburg, and returns
from thence on every Thursday : performing the
fame routint daily as in its tear ircm Philadel
phia. mwf
City of W^ifliin^tOn.
s c Ii E M E
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of tbe FerLtral City.
A magJii Scent -twelling-houfe zo,ooo dollars,
& cash 30,000, are 50,00 c
1 ditto J5,0o 0 & cafl» 15,000 40,000
I ditto 15,000 Se ra(h 15,000 30,0011
1 ditto jo,obo & calh 10,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & ca!h 5,000 10,000
: ditto 5,000 & ca(h 5,000 io,<roo
1 call', prize of ro,ooo
» do. 5,000 esch, are « so,ooo
' 10 dn. 1,000 - - io,ooc
10 do. fob - - 10,000
00 do. jnf - - 10,000
a 10 da. ;o. • - 10,000
409 do. »5 - - 10,000
1,003 do. 10 - so,uoo
15,00.=) do. 10 - 158,000
16,739 Frizes.
Blanks.
?c,ooo Tickets, at Eight Dt)llar», 400,000
N. B. Tofivour those who may take a quan
tity oi Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the L<jr drawn licket, and the 30,000 ths last
but ONI
And approved notes, securing payment in either
mon»y or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received for a»y number not less than 30 tick
ets.
Thit Lottery will afford an clGgant specimen of
theprivaite buildings to be ertiled in the City of
Waihington—Two beautiful defines are already
lele&ed for the entire fronts on two of the public
squares; from thel'e drawings it ispropofed to erect
twocentreand r ourcorßerbuildings as soon aspof
fible-after this lottery i»fold, and to tonvey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner d:feribed in the scheme for the Hotel
Lottery; A nett deduction of five per cent, will
be made to defray the necessary expenses of prim
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intenckd forthe National University, to
be erected within the city of Washington.
The reil fetnrrticsgiven for the payment of the
Prises, are held by tbe President and two Direct
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount of the lottery. ~
SAMUEL bLODOET.
Tieketsmay be had at the Bank of Ccl*m
bia ; of James Well & Co. Baltimore; of Feter
Oilman, Boston ; of John Hspkins, Richmond ;
and of Richard W»ll», Cooper's I'erry.
mwf
From tie Otfeyo Herald.
CAUTION.
WHEREAS a combination men ,in this
county have undertaken to enrich th«m
felves,by fabricating titles to fundr/ valuable trails
of land, the property of gentlemen living in New
Yolk, Philadelphia, London and Paris, for which j
trails of knd large futns of money have been paid ;
to tlu.fi- fraudulent men, by innocent purihafers I
It is therefore just that public information lhould
kt given, to the end, that the injured may feekre
drefs while the raen have property, and are to be
found. Those who have been difcovcred are Tru
man Harrifon, Joseph Witcomb, said now to re
side in the county of Saratoga ; Thomas Kelly
several othcrt who go under fictitious names. It is
fuppotcd that the lands offered for faleon those fa
bricated titles, are at least worth fifty thoufjind
dollars. Sufh as we have actual knowledge of are
as follows : Lots No. II and Iz, Otfego patent,
thousand acres each, the adual property of William
Dcllw)Q, now of London ; lots No. 58 and 64,
fame patent, thousand acres each, the property of
Mr. Chaumonf, now of Paris, and James A venll
and others, bl this State. There is*fome grounds
to suppose that the lands of Richard Wells and
Charles Wharton, of Philadelphia, are under their
management.—The Printers will do well to give
this a place in their papers, as well to caution the
public against purchasing those lands, as also to de
prive those men in future from imposing on indlvi
duafs, which their education and address have en
abled them to do heretofore. Witcomb has been
1 a shopkeeper of some note in this country.
The following affidavits will fct in a clear point
of view the wkkfdncfs of those men, which when
tbe public have perused, will induce them to ex
cuse the interference of Wm. COOPER.
Otfego, July »Bth, 17)7.
1 Thomas Kelly, of the Cpunty of Otfego, hav
ing been led into an error, by John Witcomb and
Truman Harrifon, of the fame County, to sign a
deed to them, for lot No. 58, Otfego patent, which
was the property of William ,T Franklin now Mr.
Chamont's and others; and further the laid Joseph
and Trumaa did perfttade me to do this against my
inclination, which was made out on the icth day
of November, 1793, or set back t,wo years so as
to bring it to that time ; and further the name of
s Pardon Starks to that deed was a fictitious name-,
there being;no such perlou there, To this I make
voluntary oath. THOMAS KELLY.
19th July, <797.
On t44 19th July, 179-7, cameperfonally before
me, Thomas Kelly, the fubfenber to the above af
fidavit, and made solemn oath that it contains noth
ing fcnt th-: truth.
ELIHU PHINNKY, Justice of the Peace.
On the lßlh July, 1797, came before me Jacob
Kibby, a person by me well kt:own and worthy of
good credit, who on hi* solemn oath did fay, that
two of the parties abovementioncd did make ap
plication to him this deponent, some time in the
winter of 1796, to make them a deed for two thou
sand acres of land in the Otego patent, and pro
mised this deponent a share of the profits, on tha
sale of said lands, for his so doing and th t they
made application several times for the fame purpo e,
which fervicas this deponent as often refufed, de
claring to them that he had no right to lands, and
coulddo uo such thing ; which daring attempt 011
this deponent's integrity he had related a-nong his
friends several times, previous to making this affi
davit. JACOB KIiJBEY.
Sworn before me,
ELIHU FHINNEY, Justice of the Peace.
Aug. 3. iaw4w.
Thirty Dollars Reward.
ELOPED from the service of the iubferiber,
on the 19th instant, a nrgro man by the
name of DICK, about twenty-five years of age,
and five feet nine or ten inches high ; by trade
a carpenter, and is a, very lively brisk work
■ man. His countenance is very good—When
spoken to, he converses with ease and confi
-1 dence, and is pretty sagacious. I purchased
the said fellow of Mr.Duboey Minor, in whose
name he has been advertised in the Richmond
' newspapers. Duriiig his lafl runaway trip (last
summer) he was employed i considerable length
of time, by some person near Dumfries, from
which oircumdance, -I conjecture, he has taken
another nothern route I forewarm all persons
from giviag him employment, of any kind
v, hatever, and maftersof vefTels and others, from
earrying him out of this state. The above re
ward will be s»ivej lifhe is ta'ken within forty
miles of this city; and an additional sum, in
proportion to the diltance he may be brought,
or the trouble the apprehender may
beat, in bringing him to this place.
AUG; DAVIS.
N. B. His apparel was of the ul'ual negro kind,
but he had more cloatbs than is cu-ilomary for
them topoflefe.
AD.
Richmend, June 11, 179/•
Will he Landed,
rFrofa oa board the ship A&ive, Capt. Blair,from
Hamburgh,
20 bal«s white Ruflia cica.i Hemp
% calks Clover Seed
For Sale by
Thomas Herman Leuff?r,
N ofth Fifth ftccet, No. 34.
Tune t6. f
William Blackburn,
LOTTERr Auf> BROKER'S OFFIGF
No. 64. south Second-flreet.
in the Canal lottery. No 11, which
commenced drawing the 29th May, FOR
SALE. The price of tickets will rife in propor
tion as the driwing advances, particularly on ac
count of the five firlt drawn tickets, prizes, of
four thousand dollars each, on the lait of
drawing.
Check Books kept for examination and register
ing, in the Canal, No. 2, City of W aCilngto'n, No.
2, and I*aterfon Lotteries. *
Ak"o, tickets forfale in'thc Schuylkill bridge and
Perk omen Bridge lotteries; whjch will begin
drawing in the course of the fwmmer.
The business of a Broker in all kinds of Stock,
Bills, Notes, Lands, &c- &c. tranfa&ed with the
utmost attention.
June 2 tu&f
Erfkine's View of *he War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No 40 South Second street,
[Trice 31 Cents]
A Vicuj of the Cau/es and Consequen
ces of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskine.
May 1 j $
~STATE, TRIALS.
Sold by W. Young, Bookseller, No. s*, South Sc
cond-ftreet,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
the impeachment, trial, and acquit-
VJ al of Francis Kopkinfen, Judge of the Court of
Admiralty, and John Nicholfon, Comptroller Gen
eral—ln one large 8 vo. Priee, in boards, 3
dollars. 1
W. Young has for sale, a general afTortmentof
Books. Also, Stationary, retail arid by the pack
ege, well aflorted, and entitled to the drawback if
axpprted. July 7 —*
r HE SUBSCRIBER having been appointed by
the Envoy Extraordinary and Miniller Pleni
potentiary of his Britannic Nlajefty, General Agent
for atftlUng Brilifh creditors, and such particular ar
gent* as they may fpetially authorize, in prosecuting
their claims before the cwmmiflioners for carrying in
to efFett the sixth article ol the Treaty ofAmity, Com
vurct and Navigation between this Britannic Maje/ly and
the United States of America, hereby gives notice that
he has opened h»s office at his house the south east
corner of Chefnut and fifth ftreeti, Philadelphia,
where he is ready to receive all ciaims or inttru&ions
for claims with the vouchers aud documents thereof,
for the purpoie 0i bringing forwatd the fame agree
ably so the rules and outers which the boaid may
think proper to prescribe.
And as it will be for the interest of all coueerned,
that the several claims be so (fated, and support
ed, as to prevent the delay which would ariie from
the necelfity of obtaining further information, of ad
ditional materials,from per(o«s residing at a distance,
the general agent rhinks.it his duty to add, (for tbe
direction chiefly of those, who, not having employ
ed particular agents, may leave the profccution of
their claims to his charge and management] that all
such claims ought in particular to set forth—
iff. The proper description and (itoation df the
oreditor or claimant, vnd original debtor, refpeft
ively.
2d. The date andoature of the original contractor
debt.
3d. When, in what warmer, and to what extent,
the creditor or claimant w<s prevented or impeded,
by the provision, operation or deleft of law, the
dccifionsand practice of courts, or reflraint of exe
cution, from recovfcring payment of the debt in
queftioiK t
4th The loss and damage incurred or sustained,
in consequence of such impediments, whether the
fame may have arisen from tbe infolveuey, change of
situation, or dearh of the debtor, the loss of legal
remedy from laple of t»me, or othe/caufea impairing
the yalue and leeurity of the debt, which would not
have so operated if such impediments had notcxiAed.
And sth. The particular grounds and reasons on
which the claimant maintains, in tbe terms of the
treaty, that " by the ordinary course of judicial pro
ings, the creditor cannot now obtain and a&ually
nave and receive full and adequate compensation* for
the lofifes and damages so fuiiaiued.
The general agent thinks it his duty further to fug
ged that the several claims ought to be accompanied
and supported by the affidavits of the claimants duly
sworn and regularly attefled', both as to ihe txiftence
of the debts claimed, and such other circumfhnces
as may be within their own knowledge refpcttively.
A«id wherever the claimants in (fating the nature of
their evidence (which mull in every inlfance be the
belt of which the cafe r* capable) have occasion to
refer to the testimony of witnesses, it will be proper
to apprifcthe general agent of the names and placet
of rehdence of such witnefles and the faftsto be ciia
bliflied by their testimony.
Win. Moore Smith*
Philadelphia, June Bth, 17Q7. d
For Sale,
That •well known place, called Vandeoritt's
r * r r y,
ON Nefhaminy cretk, 18 miles from PhLla
ladelphia, on the New York port road,
containing 74 acres ahd 94 perches. Upon the
premiks are a large two ftorv Bane house occu
pied as a tVern, and a good one story Hone kit
chen, a large frame ftabie agfrodthrefhing
floor, and lome out buildings—also a well of
good water, and an excellent ict House. On
this place is a molt elegant situation fora gentle
man's feat, commanding a view of the Nelham
iny toits jun&ion wiih the Pelawate, and thence
across to the Jersey fliore. , It has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the SabJiriber,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
Vav 24. atiw.tf.
COLUMBIA v
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBRIDGE with msich pleas
ure and respeCt, returns her lincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
(he has received during four years refidenae in
Philadelphia ; and allures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, she has made a superior arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
Icholars.—Evtry branch of ufefiJ and polite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groombridge and mafturs excelling in their
refpeiSiva prose fiions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
Jur.e sth, 1797. Jimftf
The fituatittn.is healthy ; and made
more agreeable by an exter.fitfc garden and lot
of ground adjoining k' le house.
fujl Piiblifhsd,
And to be had "of Meflrs. DoV lon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal in the
city.price or.e dollar, cwinty-ftve cents,ir boards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, u. d.
June ae. ,
Biggins' Specific
FOR THi
PREVENTION AN.) OURE OF i HE
rBLI.OWJf.yER.
EVF.R fitice this uifeafe Lii.de luch t'li*
i city ani i New-York, the author lias turned his
attention to itscsuff- an J cu'e.—The ceiult of his
enquiries has convinced I ,im that the reaion why fa
few perfuns recover from its attacks, are from its
not being well undcriiciod, and ths'confequent
wrong method taken to cure it. He is persuaded
that theexceifive bleedigcs and mercurial rcatment
of the Faculty is highly injurious, and that the on
ly rational mode cf treatment is by ihi: life of proper
acids. Convinced of this he offers his Sfecijie as a
certain remedy, if used according to the 'dirc^iohs.
To he had in bottles, at one dollar each, of the
inventor Gen. Higg'ws, Cherry (Ireet, two doors
bove Ninth-flreet, (late manager of Jacifon and
Co's Medicine '» arrboufe, London) ; by J. Le
i/ariL , No. 2l 6 ; ft'. Crijjitb, No. 177, T. Pearte, No.
it, South Third fire t, T. j t,New llreel,
n.ar Vine ftreat, and J. (Salts, No. 36, Race (Ireet.
Aug. 25. ttiths jt
COUGHS, COLDS; ASTHMAS, and
CONSUMPTIONS.
Just received, hy Wa. Griffiths,Ns, i 77, South
£ frefh fu;-fyol
Genuine Bal/am, of Honey,
A Medicine invented by the late Sir John Hill
(wlao knowledge as aßotanift procured hirrt
the appellation ®f the Linnasns of Britain) and is
•onfidered in England as a err tain cure for the above
complaints; it is alio of lingular efficacy in the
Hooping Cough,
It may also be had retail of W. A. Stokes, No.
61, South Second-street, and T. Stiff, sj,Ncw
ftreet, in bottles at 75 cents each.
Wm. Griffiths having obferyed the happy e£-
fe& of the medicine, (several cases of cures hav
ing <*ine within bis own knowledge) and the great
demand ; for it has induced him to order a large
supply, a part of which he has jufy received.
Aupvji 3. « iaw3w
Insurance Company'of North America.
THE Stockholders in this company are here
by informed, that, pursuant to the fifth
clause qf their Charter, and st the reqneft of a
" Number of Stockholders, who, together, are
proprietors of Six Thousand Shares, and up
w»res," a general meeting of the Stockholders
will be held at the Company's Office, on Mon
'day the 25th day of September next, at 11
o'clock, A. M. for the purpole of filling up a
vacancy in their Direction ; and Vaking into
ionlideratio-1 luch Regulations or Bye Laws a«
may be presented in conformity with the Char
ter of Incorporation.
EBEN. HAZARD, Stfry.
Ju'y _w&ftS2s
Public Notice is hereby given,
THAT at June term, 17911 a petition was
presented to the Court of Coramon Pleas,
held at York Town, in the State of Ptnnfylva
nia, at the instance of Jaraes Short, praying
the Court to supply a loft deed made by a cer
tain Andrew Hickenluber, to Hugh Morrifon,
James Morrifon, and John Sample, executors
to Hans Morrifon, deceased, for tjx hundred
aerts of Land, situate in Menallen
townlhip, in the county of York •• —All per
ft)us who have any objections to njake to the ob
ject of the hidpetitioo are desired to attend at
the Court Haute, in the town of York, 00
>th day of September next, otkerwife thp lolt
deed will be supplied.
JOHN EDIB, Clerk.
Jt>b 18. e«tS5
30 Dollars Reward.
RAN awa.y on Satusday last, two indented Ser
vants, Gilford Dally, a mulatto boy 17
years of age, a Aim light built active fellow, can
read and'write,five feet seven or eight inches high,
has a heavy countenance; had on afuftian coatee
and trowfers, a high crowned hat, fine (hoes &c.
Allan Hellons, a black man, about 14 years of
age, five feet seven or eight inches high, a thick set
cluiify built fellow, particularly about the breech;
had on a sailor's blue jacket lined with fwanlkin,
dark striped vest, fuftian trowfers, high crowned
hat, caarfe (hoes, &c.; each of them had several
fliirts and several other tloathes with them. Thir
ty Dollars will be paid for the runaways, or 15 dol
lars for each,' and reasonable charges, on delivering
them at No.- 54, North Third-street.
The black fellow is about a year from Lewis
Town, in the County of SufTex, state of Dela
ware, and has taken the boy with him.
July 31. tntvSiSjv
To be SOLD or RENTED, "
A LARGE 3 Story Brick HouTe. on the
South fide of Filbert ftre«t, between
Eighth rnd Ninth, lately occupied as the Sur
veyor General's Office.
The Building is 3*l feet front and 35 feet deep,
the lot 110 feet deep, witlfthe privilege of a nine
feet wide Alley extending the whuje length of
the lot, to a thirty feet wide Court for Carriage*
to turn in. The Huufe is not slaflered, and
may be turned either into one, or two dwelling
Houses. It isfuitable for a large Manuf 3ory,
or would make a good Tavern. Immediate
polleljioii will be given.
Apply to No. 111, Chefnut-Street.
Ahjt. jr. cod<)t.
Musical Injlrument Manufactory,
No. 167, Arch Stred.
HARPER, harpfichord,grand, portable graad,
fid'-board, pier table and square j>innt» for f 6
maktr from London, returns thanks to his frk rds
and the public, for their liberal encouragement,*
and hopes that by his aflTuluity and atrentic n to ev
ery branch of his buHncfs, ton erit a continuance
of their favors. Piano ferus rjiadeon thfr newest
and mod approved plans, with pt dais, patent,
fwcll, and French harp stop, which hetlatteis.
himfelf will ue found on ui?l by unprejudiced
judges, to be equa4 if not superior tc any import-,
ed, an 4 ewenty per cent cheaper. Any in fir a
msnt purchased of him, if not approved of in
twelve months, he will exchange.
N. B. All kinds of Muficui lnftrumeftts
uned, and repaired with the preatell accurac) ,
d.fpatch, and on the mOll rtalonabJe tcrnu,
ready money only.
Second hand Viano'Fo-rte* taken in e-cbangr.
Forty Dollars Reward.
RAN awav fnrm the fubferiber 011 the fee
onddivof this inft. July, a'Mulatto Man,
named Willßowzer, about forty years of ?ge,_
five feet fevtn or eight inches high, ratfter
chunky made ; had on when he went away, a
dra'o colored cloth coat, ftripetjf purple trowfers.
and jacket. It is probable he will change his
cloatlu-s, as he tqoka number with him. 'll.e
fai.l fellow formerly belojigi'd to Mr. Charles
Blake of this place; and it is expelled Re has
made towards Jones's Nerk, in the Delawaie
State —Ar.y person apprehending the ftiil fel
low, and fecuaing him so that I can get him a
gain, (hall receive the above reward if taken
dut of the county, and Twenty Dollars if in
the county, and all reasonable charges if bro't
home.
JESSE REED,
Qnsen Ano's (Jour.ty,Maryland*/
Jul)' 3- " W3t