of the & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Nvmser M77.J
For Sale or Charter,
■ ■ THE SHIP
WARREN,
fi er j an " n Church, Majlcr.
v"* OF about sBo toss burthen. En
qulrc 0( .
Jeffe £3° Robert Waln-
jfi §
For Freight or Charter,
T° an y P art Eorojitf,
Sivedi/b Ship
Alexander Magnus,
Capt. Carl f*. Ehsmah,
ABOUT 150 tons burthen, in this port ; and
also the Daniih Ship FREDERICK JULIUS
KAUS, of 450 tons,now lying in Haaipton Roads.
Apply to JOHN VAUOHAN.
May j6. tuthf6t
JohuTarris, master.
A GREAT part of her cargo is engaged, and
(he will tail in ten days. For freight or pal
fage apply to capt. Tarria, at Willings & Francis'
wharf, or. to CURNSc fyMITH.
May 15 5
For London,
THE SHt?
WILLIAM PENN,
J/IMFS 'fosl.iH, Master.
WILL fail f.'ith all convenient speed. For
freight or paflage apply to
"Jeffe iff Robert Wain.
gf The owners of Goods in tha (hip William
Pemi, arerequefted to fend their permits on board
as 10,011 as poffibl«.
May 19 §
For Sale,
The cargo of the brig EtUtrprizx, Captain
Langdun from Bourdeaux, now landing at
Morton's wharf,
coxsitinc a;
324 hhds. of Claret 1 «
21; cases of ditto I
too cfes of Sweet Oil
Ito pipes London proof ? brandy. I | |
Holland proot ) J
Apply to
Wharton & Lewis,
No. U5, South Front St.
Said Brig,
WILL take a FREIGHT for
the Weft-Indies or Europe, fails
faft, burthen about fifteen hun-
barrels, is in complete or
der, and will be raady to receive a cargo in a
few days "
Apply as above.
May 24 V
Loft—A Gold Bracelet,
Marked S. H. with a double Chain. A»y
perl'on whomav hive found it, and will return
it at No. 47, I'enn-flreet, will be handsomely
rewarded.
May i-j. dtf
The Subscriber,
Determined to retire from bufinef3, invites all
who have anv note, bill, bond or acceptance
of his, now due, to call for payment ; and those
who wish to anticipate may receive the money
at a reasonable discount.
JAMES SWAN.
May ii. dzw.
DorchefLr, ntarßofto/i, i6th May 1797.
PennfylvaniaPopulation Company.
NOTICE is hereby given to the Share Hold
ers, that a further aflefiment of nine DOL
LARS is levied on each lhare, payable as follows,
viz.
Six Dollars immediately, and
Three Dollars on the ilk of July next.
Which they are requested to pay to the Treasu
rer of the Company, at the Company's Office,
jNo. 53, North Fourth-street, agreeably to the
times above mentioned ; and they are further
Infoimed, that on their negleilisg to pay the
fame as above directed, the fev«ral forfeitures
wiil be exacted.
By order of the Board,
SOL. MAKACHE, Treasurer.
May 17. d3ot
To Let,
stud pojejf.on given in two weeks,
A good 3 story Brick House,
With back buildings—No. 43, Spruce-ftrtet.
Apply at No. 109 Spruce-street.
May'a6
JOHN CRAIG
HAS just imported from Rotterdam, via St.
Tho mas, and for sale on reasonable terms
by thepackage,
Platillas Royal
Haerlem and German linens
Rouens
Pott and Pro Patrii Paper
Wafers
■Quills
Oziers for Hoops, in Bundles
jCoCce Bags
He hat also for Sale,
Belt Red Clover Seed
OU Madeiri Wine, fit for immediate ufc
Teneriffe Wine of firft and second Quality
Coffee in Bags and HogGieads
Jamaica Spirits
Connedlicut Turpentine Soap
Window Glass
Two Trunks of best Patent, Silk and Cotten
Hofitry
April 18. 4 aw
or or arter »
Scbosner
Fair American,
Virginia" built—burt'.i"f> about 75c barrels fisnr —
two years old—and car. b»fent to fca immediate^.
7 bomas & JoJhua F'tjher,
No. J, Oock-ftreer.
Mav 10. d<w
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
At the Merchants' Coffee house, in Philadelphia,
on the 15th day of June, at 8 o'clock in the 1
evening, if not before diipofed of at private j
falc,
40,931 1-2 acres of land, on the
waters of Wheeling and Fishing creeks, in Wash
ington county, Pennsylvania. The foil is remark
ably fertile ; andbefides ft large ! ody of meadow,
there are considerable improvements on tli£ pre
mifes. These land® were patented in 1787. On
payment of part of thepurchafe money, a reafon
abla credit will be given for the residue. Enquire
of the printer.
May 15. § t S
The Commiflioners
FOR carrying into effeA the TWENTY-FIRST
Article of the Treaty of Friendlhip, Limits,
and Navigation, between His Catholic Majesty
and the United States of America, hereby give in
formation to all Persons therein concerned, — That,
in order to terminate all differences, on account of
the leffes sustained by the 1 itizens of the United
States, in confcquence of their Vcflels and Car
goes having b"en taken by the Subjc&sof His Cath
olic Majesty, during the 'ate War between Spain
and France, that they are ready to receive (at their
Office, between the hours of ten and one o'clock,
daily) all complaints and applications, authorized
by the said Article, during Eighteen Months,
from the day of the date hereof, and that they have
power to examine all such persons as come before
them, on oath or affirmation, touching the com
plaints in question, and also to receive in evidence,
all written teftimory, authenticated iu such man
ner as they shall think proper to require or admit.
By Order of the Commjjjio tiers,
PETER LOHRA,
Secretary.
C mmrflioners Office,. Ao. 109, Mulberry
reety Philadelphia, May I'jth, 1797.
20—J$4W
Just received,
And for sale by Isaac Harvey, jun. No. 5, South
Water-street,
A parcel of prime Rice; also,
Trinidad and Cayenne Cottoo
Coffee in Barrels and Bags
Spanish Hides and Beef.
4th mo. 25, 1797. d4w
Philadelphia and Lancaster Turn
pike Company.
A meeting of the Stockholders of the Phila
delphia and Lancaster Turnpike Company, will
be held at the Company's Offiee, on Monday,
10 o'clock, the I2thjune next.
WILLIAM GOVETT. Sec'ry.
May IJ. fr 4w.
NOW LANDING,
From on board of the lhip GEORGE BAR
CLAY, Capt. Charles M'Alester, from
Calcutta, the following GOODS, viz.
Coffas Punjum Cloths
Hummums Gurrahs
Guzeenahs India Calicoes
Eniertics Cotton Checks
Mamoodits Mulmuls
Sahans Red and Blue Bernagou
hkfs
Tickeries Patna do.
Jollas do.
Carridarries Plain, striped and flower
ed fine muslins
Maragunges Ginghams
Buftas, various forts TafTeties
Sattln Romals Bandanno red hks.
ALSO,
300 Calks Sugar
40 Boxes do.
165 Bags do.
70,000 lb. weight hfavy black Pepper
40,000 lb. weight Ginger
20 Tons Hemp in Bales
9 Pipes East-India Spirits
For sale by PHILIPS, CRAMOND W Co.
May 4. . dtf
— - . . : ... .1.4 ■. -
For Sale,
ON board the lhip Molly, John Frost, master
from Liverpool, laying at Walnut-street wharf
6000 bushels of fine ftoved Salt,
And QUiiEN'S WARE, well afTorted,
By PHILIP NICKLIN fcf Co.
WHO HAVE IN STORE, ALSO FOR SALE,
100 Boxes WhiteHavanna Sugars
Imperial and i "j" e a s
Hyson )
17 tubs Quicksilver
achefts Bandanno Handkerchiefs
A few chests Manchester Goods well aTorted
in corduroys, thicksets, ginghams, muflinetS,
dimities, &c. 2 Trunks black sewing silk,
180 Crates queens ware, well afiorted,
to Tons ftieet lead,
Nails assorted, flat and (harp points,
London particular and ) Madeira Wine in
India market 5 P'P es a . nd hhds
-30 pipes, 10 hhds. Teneriffe Wine,
jo pipes choice Port ditto,
31 calks yellow paint,
7 boxes 12 bundles writing slates,
I box ink-Hands & note prefies,
Sail canvas aflorted No. 1 a 8.
May 4-
Rofs & Simfon,
Have for Sale,
A «!UANTITY OF PRIME
St. Domingo Cotton,
Superior Old Lisbon Wine in Pipes
Excellent India Market
Teneriffe Wine,
In Madeira Calks
A few Quarter Chests belt
Frelh Hyson and ) .j.j,.
Hyson Skin 5
Mufcovadn Sugars in HogQieads, and
Coflce in Tierces
March 7. II
Erfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL St Co,
No ao South Second £rett,
[Price 3! Cents j
A View cf the Caufcs end Confequen
cts of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskini.
By JofiN Fenno, N°- iip Cbejhul Street.
PHILADELPHIA: FRIDAY EVENING, JUNE 2, 1797.
Richard Bay ley & Co.
Late John Whitesides & Co.
No. 136 Market-Jlreet,
HAVE received per the ships William Penn and
Star from London, a large and f&lhiocaole as
sortment of the following articles : viz.
Chintzes, and printed Cottoii3, of the nevvefl
patterns
Furniture Dimities and Chfotzej
Ginghams, plain and figured,
Muslins, printed and embroider'd
Do. tambqur'd, plain, check and flripM
Do tamboured, of a very ftiperior quality
Fine Book, Jaconet and Decca Handkerchiefs
Dimities and muflincts
Damalk table-linen, in setts and in the piece
Diaper ditto in Clo'hs and in ditto
Holland and Ruilia Sheetings
Loop'd Hollands and Irifti Linens
Long Lawns and Cambrics
r Sattins and Silks, plain and figured
Ribbons and Gloves
Crapes and Gauzes
Straw, Chip, and Paper Hats and Bonnets, new
shapes
Fancy trimmings, &c.
With a variety of articles in the Linen-Drapery
and Haberdafkery line.
May 21 §aot
To be Sold,
large and convenient
Three Story Brick House ;
SITU TE at the north*caft corner of Arch and
Fourth-streets. It contains eighteen rooms—
and is in every refpedl well finifhed. For particu
lars enquire of •
M. ICcppele,
No. t3B, Chefnut-ftreet.
May 1. $
Just Arrived,
In the schooner Dove, Captain Paul, from St
Thomas, and for sale by the fubferiber.
Muscovado Sugar in hhds* tierces and barrels.
St. Croix Rum in hhds.
And Laguira hides.
ALSO ON HAND,
Imperial, Hyson, and Sherry and Malaga
Hyson Skin Teas. Wines.
Yellow Nankeens. Holland Gin in pipes.
Canton Cloth. Do. Cheese.
Lutestrings. Do. Glass ware.
Silk Hankerchiefs. China Ware.
Sewing Silk. Window Blinds.
Cotton in bales. Rheubarb.
Peruvian Bark. Quicksilver, &c,
JOSEPH SIMS.
May 2zd. dut.
Millinery Room,
No. 136 MarCtt-Jlreet.
MISS CHMYS7AL
TAKES an early opportunity of acquainting
her Friends that Ihe has received by the
William Penn, a variety of NEW MIL
LINERY, &e. which flie hopes to be able to
Ih w them in a few days.
May 18 s3ot
Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co.
No. 8 Chef nut- Street,
Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly aflorted, very low on
short credit.
March 6. §
Port-Office, 23d May, 1797.
THE Mail for Baltimore will be closed at this of
fice every morning (Sundays excepted) at half past 7
o'clock.
The Mail for Boston will be clqled every day
(Sundays excepted) at 12 o'clock noon ; and
The Mail for Frederica, Miiford,Clowrs, Dagfbo
rough, Delaware, Horntown, Accomack Cou<t-Houfe
and Northampton Court-Houie, Virginia, v/ill be
<floTed every Monday morning at half pail 7 o'clock.
May 23. *i2t
Pennsylvania Population Com
pany.
NOTICE is hereby given to the Sharehold
ers, that a further alTeflVnent of fifteen
dollars is levied on each (hare, payable in the
following instalments—viz.
One quarter immediately.
One quarter on the ift of June.
One quarter ou the ill September.
One quarter on the ift Dec. next.
Which they are requested topay to the Trea
surer of the Company at the Company's Office,
No. S3 north Fourth street, agreeably to the
times above mentioned ; and they are further
informed that on their negle&isg to pay the
fame as above directed, the several forfeitures
direiled by the Constitution, willl be exa<£le d
By order of the Board,
SOL. MARACHE,
Treasurer.
May 15 Jim
Maurice Moynihan,
No. 81, North Second fired)
A few doora above Arch-ftrect,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he has
for wholesale or retail, on the lowell terms, a
general assortment of Queen's Ware, gilt and cut
tumWers, plain and flowered quart, pint, half pint,
trill and half gill do. exa& measures, decanters and
wine glafles ; gallon, half gallon, quart and pint
bowls, afld chi' a in sets and separate ; pocket
bottles: Schuyikill and Jersey cuunUy quart and
half gallon bottles ; Dry Goods, &c. &c.
N. B. Crates put up with care at the (horteft no
tice-
May 11. dtf
A Jew hhds. N. E. Rum,
Of a SUPERIOR QUALITY,
HYSON •)
YOUNG HYSON £ T E A S, ih quarter chells,
And IMPERIAL )
FOR SALI BY
A. Marple & Israel W. Morris,
No. 60 Dock-street.
May aa mw&fgt
Hall
HAS [removed his Cotr.pting Room te Jones's
Wharf, where he has for sale
24 hogsheads Cod Fish.
A Jlore to let,
In Water-street, betvetn Market Hid Arch-f>re«t»
May 19. 6f
Received by the Indoftan,
From Madras,
A JSMALL invoice confiding of the following
l\ Coast Goods, viz.
Blue Cloths
Long Cloths, 14 punjums
Do. do. firie
Madrafs Handkerchiefs, and
Book Muslins
WILLING W FRANCIS.
March 27. law
Do&or Perkins
INFORMS the citizens of Philadelphia, that he
has taken lodgings for a few days at the sign of
the Indian Queen, south Fourth-street. He will
be happy te wait on those who wish to fatisfy
themselves of the efficacy of his
Patent Metallic Points ;
And will operate gratis for the relief of the poor
at his lodgings, where he has for sale the inllru
ments, with the ntceffary inftruilions fcr uling
them.
May 19. dtf
A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRST &, ad proof, <
Gin, of 4th proof, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds
Old Hock, in cases of 40 dozen each
Glass Tumblers, 111 pints and half-pints
Window Glass, in boxes, of difl'erent (ize?
Hazlenuts, in farks
Whiting
Copperas ( . ~ ,
WhireLead C hbds
& Spaniflj Brown j
For Sule by
PETBR BLIGHT.
January 4 (J.
Venereal Complaints,
PUNCTUALLY attended to in every stage of
that disease, without the use of mercury or
reftrair.t of diet, in any cal'c recent and simple. on
application at No. 113, Chefnut-ftreet, oppoGte
the United States bank, or at No. 170, South Wa
ter-street, between Spruce and Pine-ftaects, where
he ha, opened an office for the better accommoda
tion of his patients.
But in Lues Venerea confirmed, Doflor Morgan
pledges himfelf, that no fytlem of cure (however
specious) can be effc&ual without mercury, and
that all the known rules of pra&ice for thele two
centuries past, and united experience affirms, that
any substitute for it is but nugatory, and any mode
of pra&ic: to the contrary mull be futile and dc
ceptious.
Never thelefs, he undertakes, however compli
cated the cafe, to effect a cure without inconve
nience or injury to the patient's constitution, and
in time not generally experienced or expedted.
N B. Regular attendance at the office in Water
ftreet, from the hour of nine o'clock in the morn
ing until one, and from three o'clock in the even
ing until seven; but any o'.her time at his dwelling
house, in Chefuut-ftreet.
May 16. dtf
This Day is Published,
BY Mess- Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the
other Book fellers,
rice One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
Elegantly printed on IVeve paper, and Hot
preffed,
By John Thompson,
A COMPARATIVE ViaWOF
The Constitutions
Of the several States with other, and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of eaeh Constitution, and
claffingtogether their most important provisions,
under the several heads of adminiftraticn; with
Notes andObfervations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Carolina,
L L. D. aod member of the Congrcfs of the
United States.
Dedicated to the People of the United States.
N. B. A few Copi s printed on an i«ferior pa
per, at 3-4thsuf a dollar. 1
February 6 mwf
Southwark Printing-Office,
No. 294, South Second-Jlreet.
IF encouraged, Timothy Mountford, will pub
lilh from this office, a newfpapcr, entitled, The
Soutbzvark Gazette, and Philadelphia. Regijier; the u
tility oi which, no one can doubt of who considers
the distance between this and other offices.
He will fend paper* on the morning of every
Thursday and Saturday, to such places as his sub
scribers shall direA.
The price of this Gazette will be Four Dollars
per year, payable as follows: One dollar when
called for—one dollar at the expiration of fik
months—and one dollar at the end of every fubfe
qutnt term of three months.
Literary essays wiil be gladly received and in
serted gratis—A<ivertifements at the usual rates.
£5" Apply to William RoaiNsoN,jun.Efquire,,
at hi 3 house in front of die office, who willrtceive
ftibfcriptiom*.
Subscriptions will also be received by the follow
ing gentlemen, viz. MeCT. Young, Mills Son y
Thomas Dobfon, join Qrmrod, illiam IV, IVood
ivard, and Samuel Ruhardet, Merchants* CofTee-
House.
May 39. 3peo.
For Sale,
By Samuel Brecfc, jun, at his Compting-houfe, N»,
89, South Third-It t.:et,
A quantity of the be/l
Boston mess Beef in whole aud half barrels.
fit for Ihip's use
Do. Pork do.
A quantity of Sherry Wine
A few Pipes Oil Proot Brandy, just landed
from Bordeaux
Chocolate in Boxes
Rice, Cotton, Castile Snap, and
Four or five Bales large Orange Peels, fee.
May 17. eo6t
For iale, or to be let, *
A new three Jlory brick bouse.
AT the Merchants' Coiled-ho use, oa Friday
next, the fld of June, at 8 o'clock in the;
evening, will be lold by public vendu •, a genteel
three story house. It is pleasantly situated on the
south fide of Arch-ftre«t, the fault!* houfs above
Fourth-llrcet. It may be viewed any tifiae before
the falc. Terms are one fo:u& in approved no.es
at 60 days, and the remainder in f v«n years on
security and intereH annuallyi If not fold it will
be put up to be let ok a lease of seven years Im
mediate pofllflioii may be givrn. Further parti
cular* will be made known at the time of sale, by
Richard Footman b* Co.
/fydi)*eert.
M«» 19. djt
Jufl Received,
From Batavia (via Providence)
170 Sacks of Java Coffee of /:rft quality
2cc half sack& do. do.
a few Box«sof Spices, confiding of
Nutmegs, Cloves and Mace
Fur sale by
l/ILLINC-SUf FRANCIS,
Penr.«ft reet.
May 30 dtf
Jonathan Harvey,
No. 106 SOUTH FRONT-SIREET,
HAS FOR SAIR,
A general afiortment of Dry Goods
—Amongst which axe—
A few boxes Irish Linens.
May 22 • wfjm
Valuable Books.
Anew importation, from London, uft receive?
and now opening and felling by J. ORMROD, No.
41, Cr»efnut-(lctct.
March 29. eoip
Dutch Gunpowder.
A quantity of the best Dutch Gunp«wd<r for
falc by Samuel Bred:, jun. No. 89, south Third
ftreet.
May 27> eo6t
La?ica'ter, Harrijburgk, Carliflc,
Stiippenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
THE public are requested to take notice, that
the partnerfllip which has fer sometime f»b
fifted between Mathias Slough of Lancaster, and
William Geer, is now dill'olved: but, not as M.
Slough inftnuatesto the public without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fub
je<ft from. M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 19th
December left, a recital of which is not now deem
ed neceffacy. Any gentleman who willies to be
more circumstantially informed of the merits of
this business, by applying to W. Geer may have
the perusal ef M. Slouch's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfeilly juflifiable in attaching hitn
felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
Now from the liberal and generous support the
public were pleased to confer oi) the firft effort in
this business, YTilliam Geer, in conjunction with
Messrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention and iifpatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can poflibly eiert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
render the paflage fafe and commodious, inform
thofa wno will) to patrbnize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George Weed's, the sign ef the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg,
Carlisle and Shippenfburg. The fare as hitherto
established.
For the further accommodation of the public,
a Stage will Hart every Wednesday from the house
of Samuel Elder, m Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
and return from thcace and arrive at Harrifburg
every Saturday, so that paflengers destined for
Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed 00 Mon
days.
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster, Jan. 27, 1797.
N. B. This Line ef Stages darts'from the
house of William Ferrae, in Lancaster, on every
Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
ceeding to the westward; and from the house of
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg every Wednes
day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenfbui'g, and return,
frem thence on every Thursday : performing the
fame routine daily as in its tour from Philadel
phia. mwf
A Compting House to let.
THE Compting House formerly occupied by
Mr. John E. Caldwell, on Rofs' wharf, will
be vacant on Ift June —and for hire to any person
who may apply for fame. For terms enquire of
the printer hercsf.
May .-,i. eofip
GOLD AND SILVER
bullion.
THE highefl price in ready money will be gi
ven for gold or silver bullion, old gold or
silver, or gold dutt, at No. 29, North Sevcnth
fireet.
April ao iaw6w
A FEW BOXES OF~
Bologna Sausages,
Of a superior quality, to be Sold at No.
199, South Fiont-Street.
April io, eotf
Musical InJlrument Manufactory,
No. 167, Arch-Strict.
HARPER, harpsichord, grand, portable grand,
fid'-board, pier table and square pia>.o forte
maker from London, returns thanks to his lriends
and the pu'.ilie, fer their liberal encouragement,
and hopes that by hi» afiiduity and attention to ev
ery branch of bis business, to merit a continuance
of their favork. Piano fortes made on thu newest
and mo ft approved plans, with p. dais, patent,
swell, and French liarp flop, which he flatte: s
hisnfelf will ue found on trial by unprejudiced
judges, to he equal if not superior to any import
ed, and twenty per cent cheaper. Any inftru
nunt purchased of him, if sot approved of in
twelve months, he will exchange.
N. B. AH kinds of Musical inflruments made,
tuned, and repaired with the greatest accuracy,
dispatch, and on the mo ft reasonable, terms, fui
ready money enly.
Second Piano Fortes taken in exchange.
May-.e.
To be Sold,
A three Jlcry brick House, with Juitablc back
building: ;
SITUATE in Vine-street, No. 88, completely
Cnifhed, and free of ground-rent: it has a
neat back yard, in which is a eiftcrn, and new
pump for rain w;i*ct—com modioli* cellars are un
derneath the whole, in which is a dry well bricked
up, that will hold ice. This property is well cal
culated for n hoarding henfe. For particulars ap
ply at thepremifes.
Immediate polfcHioa will be given, or so as to
f iit a pjrchaVr.
May 15. 3»wtf
[[Volume XI.Tilt FCLLOVViNG VALtfASLfc ■
Trads of Land,
111 N the cofl»ty of Glymv and state of Georgia, ]
will lie Md liy public file, at eight o clock j
on the evening of Vurfday the 17th day ot June :
fcexc, at the Merchants C'fTcc-Houfe lis this ci- ]
ty, un'.efs previously difpoled of by private sale. '
ill. 7000 acrts on St. Jirnons Sound at the :
eoutlutnee of Fiederica and Turtle: rivers, id- |
ioinine the eummoAi of the town of Hrunlwick,
"oifgiiully granted to John tla well, aud within
6 n'iies rfltie Atlantic ore in. ,
ad. 15.000 acres on t>ie head waters or a
branch of Ihe great SattiHa, originally granted gr'
to Ferdinand O'Neal.
-id. 50,000 acres on the waters oflie.itue
Satilla river, and of KutTJoe and Alexander. pr>
Creeks i the great Sartlla roj-l piff-S through 7
these lands, which were originally granted to
Ferdinand O'Neal.' . j
4th. to.ooo acres on the .great Sitil.a river, i
which are also interfered by a hrinci 1 of the . ■*
little Satilla, and were granted t. j >
Thomas Spalding. ! Et
It appears by authentic certificates from j ' un
Thomas Davis, furveyar, and from Major > of
Hcpkins now reliding in Philadelphia, re at the a p
body of these lands are not thirty m.les from ni,
the oceaij, and principally within tide water; an
that the Alatamaha is navigable for boats and ga
rtift® two hundred miles above, and for large »e<
vefltls within ten miles of them ; that they are a
- chiefly firft rate pine lands, producing timber
equal in quality to any in the state of Georgia,
f'olfeOing the fame advantages of navigation.
The abovementjon.d certificates, together with
the patents, drafts, andother papers refpeitnig L
the title, which is complete and unincumbered,
are in the pofTeffion of the fubferibers and may
be fee.n by applying to Benjamin R. Morgan, at -
No. 5, South 4th Street. The. terms of pay- S
ment will be onethinl caih, the remaining two *'
third? in good negotiable endors'd notes, paya
ble in three and fix months after the sale ; a
conveyance to be made to each purchaser on the
payment of that moiety of the notes received
from him which becomes firft d"e.
THOMAS FITZSIMONS,
JEREMIAH PARKER, p
BENJAMIN R. MORGAN.
Philadelphia, May 31. 1797- eodtr
■ I
. New Hat and Hosiery Store.
Ju/l Imported,
)n tieJhipi lVillhm Pcnn and Star,from London, and
rotv opening by
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL,
AT his new Hat and Hosiery Store, No. 134, |
Market street 1
An elegant aflortment ol silk, Cotton And thread
Stockings
Silk, cnlton an 4 thread Gloves
Panttiloons, '&c. &c. « .
Like wife, a han-dfome afTortment of men s, wo
tnen's, and children's fathionable Hats, fuitablcfor
A eonfiderable quantity of low and middle priced
Hats assorted in cases, intended for counjrj llores.
May 13. tlvr
A New Work.
PROPOSALS
For printing and publilhing, by fubferiptioa, The
History of Pennsylvania,
IN North-America, from the original inftiiutio"
ftttleroent of ihjt province, under the firft propri.
rtor and governor, William PtNN, in 1681, till
after the year i74«;-with
Y AN INTRODUCTION.
Refpefting the Life of W . PENN,
Prior to the grant of that province, and the reli
gion Society of the people called Quakers; with the
FIRST RISE bf the NEIGHBORING COIONIES,
p,.re particularly ol WEST-NEW-JERSEY, mh! the
Settlement of the DUTCH and SWEDES 0.1 DEL A
WARE. . , .
To which is added,
A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SAID PRO
VINCE.
And of the general state, in which it flourilhed,
principally between the years 1760 and 1770. The
whole including a variety of things, ufetul and in
tereliing to be known, refpefling that country inearly
time, &e. With an appendix.
Written principally between the years o
By Robert Proud.
" Putchrum tjl behtficert rcipublicoc, etiam btneikcre
kaud ablutdum tft, vel pace vel btllo darvmjieri licet."
. tal. Catalin.
11 Sri cum plerique arUtrcntvr res bcllicas majoret effe
o'jum u>bunai. mnuendneD hxcopinio."
' Cic. Off.
< (Entered according to la ui.)
" WH.LIAM PENS, the great legidator of the
Qu«k»rs, (in Pennsylvania) had the success of a con
queror, in establishing and defending h's Colony, a.
inong savage tribes, wtrhout e»er drawing the sword ;
ibe goodnelsof the most benevolent rulers, in trea
ting h'ufubjefts as his own children ; and the tender
ness of an universal father, who •pened his arms to
all mankind without diftinflion of feft or party. In
his Republic it was not his religious creed, but per
fonaj merit, that entitled every member of society to
, ihq proteftioa and emolument of the State"
EJfayon Toleration, by Arthur O'Letry.
CONDITIONS.
I. This Work will be primed in two oftivty" vol
umes, neatly bound and letteied, both in sheep and
calf, for the choice of the fubfenbrrs; on paper simi
lar to that of thtycond'tions, as pMjlud in the Subjirlp
' tion papers.
11. The head of Willi«n Penn, handTomely en
graved, will be prefixed to the firft, and a map or
(Vetch of Pennsylvania, and the parts adjacent, to the
second volume.
11l- The price to fubferibers will lie four dollars
and an half in (heep, and fivt dollari in calf j—one
dollar to be_pa:d at the time of fubfciibing, two dol
laison the delivery of the ftift> volume, and the re
mainder on the delivery «t the second.
IV. When one thousand copies arc fubferibed
for, the work will be mit to press and fiuilhed with
all conven ept expedition.
1 Subscriptions will be received by Zachariah Poul
fon, jua Printer, No. 80, Chef'jut-ftreet, and at the
Philadelphia-Library in Fifth-ftreet ; by Ifaae Col
lins. Piinter, and Joseph Jiinej, Merchant, New-
York; by jDhn P. Pleafams and G'orge W. Field,
Msechaots.-Baltirooie; and by othei persons both
d town and country .
February i&. tu&f
For Sale,
7'hal vjellir.own place, called FjNDSOßirr's
r f r * y,'
ON Neftuminy creek, 18 miles from Phi
ladelphia, on the New York pull road,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
premifrs are a Urge two ltory stone hrufe occu
pied as a tavern, and a good one flory stone kit
chen, a large frame liable with a gnnj thielhing
floor, and I'ome out buildings —also a well of
food water, and an excellent' ice House.. On
This place is a mod elegant situation for a gentle
man s feat, commanding a view of the Nclham
iny to its janilion with the Delaware, and thence
across to the Jerfty shore. It has the privilege
cf one Lalf the toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the Sabbribcr,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
Vay 24. auwtf.
Circus,
South Fiftb-Xtrtet.
- „ i
Te-MoßttOJv ErtxiNG, June 2,
NEW AND INTERESI iNG
Equeltrian Exercises, \
Followed by a new Hn lectin Pantomime, ne- (
ver performed >crt.
£3* Particulars in the bills of the day.
11l rehearfal—PlEßßK DE rROYENCE, a
grand historical pantomime, with tournaments, <
battles and miliary cYolufions. <
£jT Mr L&ilfon withes to take a couple cf ap- (
prentices, of a genteel family, frem ten to fifteen
ycarhvf age, to whom he will teach the Jvqueflrian
art, and every thing which belongs to nit hufineK v
Spanish Language. «i
WAN TED, a pcrfon well qualified to trans- g°
late Spauifh papers ani documents into the Co:
En?li3i language Such sfjone who can proiuce thl
unexceptionable recommendations, and is Jcfirou* j n |
of immediate employment, will pleafc to make
application in writing at th* ofnee of the Com- _
I miflioners for carrying into efft-d the twenty-fir^
i article of the treaty oi friertdfhip, limits and navi- W|
i Ration, between his Catholic majesty and the Uni- \vl
ted States of America, — during office hours, or nQ
at the office ot PETER LOHRA, Sec y. w]
| Philadelphia, June I. 2 3p
William Blackburn, b
LOTTERY and BROKER'S OFFICE ui
No. 64 south Second fireet. m
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 11, which c j
commenced drawing the 29th May, FOR
SALE. The price of tickets will rife in propor
tion as the drawing advances, particularly on ac
count of the five firft drawn tickets, prines of Ui
four thousand dollars each, on the last day ot p]
drawing. C«
Check Ecoks kept for examination and regitter-
ing, in the Canal, No. 1, City of Walhington, Nj>. g
2, and Paterfon Lotteries. .
Also, tickets for sale in the Schuylkill bridge and I<
Perkiomen Bridge lotteries, which will begin e:
drawing in the course of the summer. t
The bufwefs of a Broker in all kinds of Stock,
. Bills, Notes, Lands, &c- &c. tranfaifted wich the
utmost a:tentien.
Tune 2 ,u&f
— V
' The Commiflioners fl
IpOR tarrying into effe<ft the sixth article of the T '
treaty of amity, commerce and navigation, 1
' between hi» Britannic mijefty and the United States t
of America,concludedon the 19th day 0! November, f
* . 1794, having this day constituted their Board, — j
purfuaut and agreeably to the said treaty, do here
by give notice, that they are ready to proceed to '
business accordingly; and they desire that all claims (
under the said article (which so far asthe fame de- 1
r (critics the cases thereby provided for, is hereunto j
annexed) may be lodged with their Secretary with
d out delay. . 1
s - They further Afire that all such claims may not
only state in what manner the several cases come 1
within the description of the said article, but also
cfpccJal'.y set forth .he nature of the evidence by !
which the claimants refpeflivcly undertake t« sub- .
ftantiate the fame. (
Exira<st from the said article,
" Whereas it is alledgcd by divers British mer
" chants, and others his majeft} s fubjedls, that
<■ debts to a confutable amount, which were bona
' •' fide contraaed, before the peace, still remain
d it owing to thjan by citizens or inhabitants of the
it « United States; and that by the operation of va
«' rious lawful impediments, since the peace, not
f only the full recovery of the said debts has been
" delayed, but also the value-and f»turity thereof
1; " have been in feveral|inftances impaired and leff
-I,j " ened, so that by the ordinary course of judicial
S " proceedings, the British creditors cannot now
he « obtain and aftuilly have and receive full and
\. " adequate compenfatio««ior the losses and dama
" ges which tney have thereby fuf ainfd : It is a
" greed that in all such cafe» where full enmpenfa
'• tion for such losses and damages cannot for what
" ever reason be aAuaily obtained, had and recei
d, « Te d by the said creditors in the ordinary ceurfe
he " of justice. the United States will make full and
n " " complete compensation for the fame to the (aid
" creditors : but it is diftin&ly underfrood, that
" this provision is to extend to such losses only as
" have been occasioned by the lawful impediments
■I aforefaid, and is not to extend to losses oceafion
« ed by such insolvency of the debtors Or other
ere " causes, as would equally have operated to pro
" «• duce such loss, if the laid impediments had not
" exiftad ; nor to such losses or damages as have
14 been occasioned by the manifeft delay, ornegli
'fl* " gepc?, or wilful omission of the claimant.
By order tf the Briard,
GRIFFITH EVANS, Sec'y,
Philadelphia, Cemmiffioners' Office,
No. 3 south Sixtk-ftreet, May 29,
he i 79 ?. J 2—2aw3w
m. . '
d a ; The fubferibers, have for sale, the
«- following Goods, viz :
er " Madeira Wine, in pipes.
j'n vJ Port do. inpipes, hogsheads & qr. calks.
el . Malaga do. in hoglheads andqr. calks.
10 Sherry do. in quarter calks.
Claret do. of excellent quality, in bottles.
RufliaDuck.
Do. Diiper and Huckaback.
CoarCe Toweling,
ol- Ifing Glass, firft fort.
Kuffia white Soap, cut in fin all bars.
ni ; Mould Candles, in boxes of 6olb weight.
London Porter, in bottles.
, n _ 100 barrels of good beef.
... A wronght-iron Book Cafe.
£ PHILIPS, CRAMOND & Co.
Philadelphia, id June, 1797. d.
art -—-
oi- Houfhold Furniture.
,e - XTOW felling by private lale, No. 1 7 Dock
ftreet—confiftingot chairs, tables, looking
,fd glasses, bureaus, hand and fire irons, bedftcids,
1 feather-beds, carpets, bedding, window curtains,
bed and table linen, kitchen furniture, &c. The
p whole in good order, and has only been a few
1 manths in use.
w _ The sale to continue daily 'till the whole is fold.
■U* T«ne 2 •
oib
Xijt <sasett t.
r , f PHILADELPHIA,
% FRIDAY EVENING, JUNE a.
id, CONGRESS.
YEtTCRDAY,
" The Answer to the Piefidenl's Speeeh,
" with amendments, went thro* the committee
'/r of the whole—Some verfcal amendments were
3d agreed tohy the House. A motion of amend
le- ment tp Mr. D»yton'» motion, made by
m- Mr. Kittera*, relative to compensation bv
lct France, for injuriei done to our neutral
8 e tights, orcafioned a long debate, in confe
q-jence of the previous quellton being called
Ifor by Mr. Nicholai. The Honfc adjourned
without taking the qiteflicn.
By this day'* Mail. jwL
j a ni:
NEW-YORK, June i. |tl.«
The following is extruded from a letter written , ai ) 4 -
ly en American of the firjl refpeSabdity, al , beei
Paris, on the \JI of March hi/l, to his ! f lt fl
friend in this city. The original was po.ite- j t ., ,
ly handed to us by tlx gentleman to ivhm it j t j, ei
was addrejfedy end is ntrio *."/ ottr pojfejfion. va>
If any other authenticity were requijite for ta |r,
the judicious and well exprrffed feniiments of } lu (
the writer, 'we "would add that we are ac- ]
painted with the parties between whom the
communication has pajfed, dul
" You are well aware, I presume, that ; ro(
the fituatioh of our country with refpedl to j u .
France, has lately become extremely criti- by
cal ; that the proceedings of the executive ,h t
government of the latter have assumed a p ri
complexion of animosity and violence which bui
threaten at least an interruption of the good at
intelligence and harmony that had so long an ,
| subsisted between our refpe&ive nations. R |
I Perhaps an important crisis is not diftar.t,
which it may be painful to anticipate, but att
which when it ripens to a head will require te;
no common boldness to be contemplated r |f,
with composure. The system of terror is
employed against our government with as
little ceremony as it was once employed by a
Britilh ministry against our nation, and is je<f
■unqualified. And if the consequences they r0 i
may expedt ihould not result from it, ,coer
cive measures may soon be expedtcd to sol- j 1
low. What these will produce, time must ga
unfold. In my last letter you were given to a | ;
understand that, our new minister lent re- G f
place Mr Monroe,, at Paris, had not been re- qt
ceived by the executive diredtory ; and that w
Mr. Monroe had received, upon the occa. te
fion of taking his leave, particular marks of
favor which were personal to himfelf, and at
expressly separated him from the injurious 0 |
exprefiions used towards the government he
had been sent to represent. Since then, Mr.
Pinckney has been ordered to quit France.
It can hardly be supposed that the system,
which gave rile to these measures will stop p
Ihort in its operation at this point : We f
. must therefore be prepared to face other in- w
, fults, more indignities, and a greater por- 0
> tion of wrongs than we have yet fuffered 0
■ from the French Republic. They are raif- 1 ;
" ing pretensions to dominion over us which
are utterly incompatible with our indepen- v
s dence ; such as, I trust, no patrioticAAme n
- rican will be content to promote, and which b
J few, I beligve, will fee with indifference, r
' A French yoke, or a British, will never fit
t lightly upon my neck, and I think I am
c not lingular in the delicacy of my feelings,
o lam pot ignorant, however, that there are |
T those my country, ready, willing, and al- , f
ready engaged to become Arnolds and K.an- : ;
dolphs in the French cause, who have en- {
•- lifted under the banner, and expedt to be t
it covered with the (hield of those immaculate i
ia principles which, we have been told, are so (
II peculiar to that republic.
[I You may wilh to know how far the peo- :
3t pie of France coincide with the views of i
n their present government, in their treatment, ;
» f towards the United States ; and whether a
war at this time between the two nations,
* would be odious or popular. I have every
id reason to believe that the French nation de
i- precate lincerely such an extremity ; that it
a- ig the general wilh to maintain a friendly in
a" tercourfe witli us, because they know it to
be reprocally beneficial, and neither feel nor
f e fee any reason for its suspension. But, in
id order to account for the exiltence of such
id opposite dispositions in their present rulers,
at for the little influence the public voiceappears
to possess in the executive councils, it is ne
n. celfary to know that the government in this
er country is every thing, and the people noth
ot The sovereign majesty of the people is just
* ; e fufficient to be held in i'upreme contempt ;
and whether they are for, or against, the
condudl of the diredtory, on any given oc
casion, it is scarcely worth while to enquire.
The directory alone cannot declare war, and
I am almost persuaded that the legislative bo-
dies are far from desiring war with America ;
but the executive may be profoundly hostile
towards us, and diredt violences and provo
cations against our country, which must
_ lead to open resentment, and the legislative
' bodies cannot prevent them. Should such
condudt therefore be pursued, and the accu
mulated injuries of the French directory
compel the government of the United States
to refill by an appeal to arms, the French
nation will be made the blirid.and deluded in
strument of vengeance against their only
real and sincere friends. It is painful to an
American to contemplate this pidture ; for
who among us has not wilhed well to their
cause, so long as it was a contest for freedom
and independence ?
You need not be told that America is not
the only neutral government, wherein French
intrigue is active ; menaces equally bold are
,ck- addrclfed to all the neutral commercial states,
ng- but with as little success in general as with
■. ds ' us. Enmity to their only formidable foe,
■an anxious desire to cut off her commerce
f ew with all her nations, and despair at the dif
trefiing situation of her own affairs, has pro
old. probably been the inducement with the di
> redtory to adopt their present policy, lime
and experience must either convince them of
its temerity, or by fuccSts they will derive
a fandtion for it."
IMPORTANT ADVICES.
By the Carteret Packet, captain lay lor, in
==. 48 days from Falmouth, we have received
our regular London Advice* to the 12th
of April, (that ia, to the evening of the
ch, 11 th inclusive) which furr.ilh u« with the
tee important derails we have given at £reat
ere length in this day's Advcrtifcr.
nd-
by LONDON, April 11.
by Important intelligence, received, by yeiler
ral day's Mail,
fe-
led VIENNA, March 25.
led The information received from Italy is by
no means favorable. The French have at-
tacked 'he Aufliian line* in Vensti:..) Fi.u., de-c
which brought sua blo«(3y conK'ft f in which WJI
a miKibcr of n ,cn were loft on buth tide' 10
The Auflriant were obtiged to leave their aurt
advantageous polit'.on after ihe Frerch hae
been four times repulfcd, but returned wi'h 111
; fie ft troops which compelled the imperial ft 1 mar
to retire behind .he .ivcr Lizooz^,thel-re.-ch on.t
then entering Udine,threa'tened P ilms. NllO- una
va. ahd even Ttieft,-.—Two Auft.iao gene. ry.
rafs are macfe prifoilers, and t>»o fquad.uo of ngl
huffarg nearly cut to pieces. " f
Nothing could equal the courage of the P a f l
Aulliiars in geneial, except tlia< of thr veh- tnl?
duke himfelf, who was expofvdto the mod bat
imminent danger. Two French l.tifWs vve.e cav
in a frw paces of him, who hetng obterved nth
by some of the arehdoke Joseph's hollars, Oe
thev flew to lis relief, and cut down the art)
French huffais, and thus saved the pr.iie'e ; °P e
but the molt unplcafaKt ciieunillance is, that ga<
at present this general can no longer leecive wn
any reinforcements immediately from the tin
Rhine through-the Tyrolian country 1 . _
The circumllancc of the archduke's being ng
attacked on the fame day on which lie in- an<
tended to have attacked the enemy, has given Lr'
rife to a number of fpr dilations.
BOTZEN, March 23. ( ™
It does not appear to jbe the enemy's ob ty
jest to penetrate to lnfpruck, but to take the w.
route from Brixen to Saltzburg ; a plan by
whikh a junction may be formed between their =m
■ Tyrolian army and that which is afting a
■ paii, It the archduke in Fliaul. We are mu-h th
■ alarmed for Tyrol, because, since the arrival tr
• of the French, the imperial troops m that g«
- quarter arc cut off from any communication iy
t with the archduke's grand army in the coun- m
- tey of Gorta. . r
f The whole of the Frensh force is estimated lo
at 100,00 a men—Buonaparte has the flower
s of the French army. .
- d:
MULHEIM, March 28. «
Fear and uneafmefs begin to perplex tie ■ C
, njjnds of the people, in proportion as the j m
P period of opening the campaign approaches. I
e For some time past the nuiuDer of Frenchmen ! "
1- was not very considerable, both here and in ft
> our environs, but yelterday a great number "
d of them arrived again. The VVupper is ft rang
f- ly lined with troops. ! P
h From the diftridts of the Lahn and Sieg, ; o
1- welearo, that the Auftriansare receiving ma- p
> ny reinforcements, and that they have ella- n
h blifhed some magazines betweeu those two «
e. rivers. '
it
m COLOGNE, March 23.
s. On the 24th itiftant a long conference took f'
re place at Neuwied, between general H«cV, , t
tl" , feveial other French generals, and .the Auftri- , r
n " ! an general Krny. The fubjedls of their con
n- ference are to be refuroed in a week's lime at j n
t>e the fame place. _ _ 1
te i There is no daubt but the campaign will
so open soon, and with unprecedented energy.
; The army of the Sambre and Meufe will be
o- augmented to near ico.coo men, 40,000 of (
of whom will be charged to besiege Mentz and
nt, Ehrenbreitftein. Coutier Bas Rhine, April 1.
■a -r
IS, PAPvIS, April 7.
ry ARMY of ITALY,
le- Buonaparte, commander in chief of the army
it of Italy, to the Executive Directory. i
in- Head-quarters at Valvafone,
to Match 17.
ior Since the battle of Rivoli, citizens diredt- i
in tors, the army of Italy occupied the banks ]
:ch of the Piave and Lavis: the emperor's army
rs, commanded by prince Charjes, occupied the
ars other bank of the Piave, had its centre be
ne- hind the Cordevela, and supported its right
his on the Adige, from the fide of Salurne.
th- On the 10th Ventofe, in the morning, the
division of general Maffeaa repaired to Feltre;
uft at his approach the enemy evacuated the line
it ; of Cerdevela, and marched to Bellume.
the General Serruier's division advanced to
oc- Afols, amidfl the mod horiible weather:—
ire. but wind and rain, on the tve of battle, have
md always been an omen of fiiccsfs to the army
bo- of Italy.
ca i On the 12th, at day break, the division
lile crofted the Piave, facing the village of Viier;
vo- notwithstanding the wpidity and depth ol l
tuft"'the water, we only loft a young drummer, j
tive The chief of the squadron Lafalles at the head
uch of a demchment of cavalry, and the adjudant
:cu- general Le Clerc, at the head of the 2 ill
ory light infantry, worded the hodile corps which
ate's wanted to oppose our passage, and idvanced
nch rapidly to St. Salvador ; but the enemy, at
.in- the firft news_of the passage, were afraid of
inly b"tftng- J'urtounded acd evacuated their camp
1 an of Le Campenu..
for General Guieux, at two o'clock in the af
heir ternoon, paded the Piave at Ofpeladetto, and
iom arrfved in the evening at Coneglianor.
Our Cavalry, in the course of that dsy, [
not encountered several times that of the enemy ;
nch had always the advantage, and took 80 huf
are fa is.
ites, On the 13th, general Guieux with hisdi
vith vision, arrived at Sacile, fell on the enemy's
foe, rear-guard, and notwithstanding the darkness
erce of the night, took 100 prisoners from them,
dif- A corps of Hulans, wanjed to capitulate.—
pro- Citizen Stabeek, chief of the squadron, was
: di- killed, and general Dugna, slightly wound
'ime ed.
mof At the fame time general Maffena's divi
rive lion Raving reached Cellurne, porfaed the
enemy, who had retreated to Cadore, hem
med i» their rear guard, to >k 700 prisoners,
among whom were ieo hussars, a colonel, and
1 in general Lufignan having difgraeed himfelf in
ived his cordfldt towards our lick at Brescia, 1
2th gave orders to condudl him to France, with
the out being exchanged.
the On the 16th general Guieux's division set
reat ont from Patdepone, at five o'clock in the
morning, that ofgenerall Serrieur left Pafiano
at four, both diredting their march to Valva
fone.
Jer- Gen. Guieux's division passed bfeyond
Valvafone, and air ived on the banks of the
Tagliamento at eleven o'clock in the morn
ing, The hostile army wa»" entrenched on
Iby the opposite fide of'the river, of which it
' *1- pretended to dispute the paffjig e. My aid-
de-camp i lie'chief'of squadron CroiMr*
went at the Jieaid of tweaty-five guides to
reaonnoitre it as fir as the entrenchments,
and was received with grape fhct.
Gen.Bcrnadotte's divtficn arrived at noon.
I immediately gave orders toGen.Guieuxto
march to the left) in orderto cross the ri\ er,
on the right of the enemy's entrenchments,
under the protection of 12 pieces of artille
ry. Gen. Brenadotte was to cross it ori the
ri 'ht ; bc-th dfvifions formed their batallion
of grenadiers, ranged themselves in order of
battle, having each half a brigade of light- f
Infantry before them, supported by two
battalions of grenadiers and" flanked by the
cavalry, The light infantry manoeuvred as
riflemen ; Gen. Dammertin on the left, and
Gen. Depinafle on the right, made their
artillery advance, and a briilt cannonade was
opened. I gave orders for .every half bri-,
gade to file off to a close column on the
wings of the secOnd, and cf their hril and ,
third battalions. >
Gen. Diiphot, at the head of the 17th
light infantry, threw liimlelf irtto" the river,
and presently gained the opposite bank.—
Gen. Bon supported him with the grenadiers
of Guieux's division. The whole line put
itfelf in motion, each half brigade en echelen
with squadrons of cavalry to fill up the emp
ty spaces from behind. The hoflile cavalry
wanted several times to charge our infantry,
i but without fuccef3 ; the river Was crofted,
• and the er.erfiy was routed in every direction.
. They attempted to afTa.il our right with
, their cavalry, and our left with their infan
| try. I sent Gen. Dugua, and the adjutant
t gen. Kellermann, at the head of
1 ry of reserve, afiifted "by our infantry, com
. manded by the anjutant gen. Mireur, ; we
worried the enemies cavalry, and took pri
j fan er the Gen. commanding them.
r Guieux ordered the village of Cradifca
to be attacked —and notwithllanding the
darkness of the night, he captured it, and
completely routed the enejny ; —Prince
e ' Charles had just time enough left to save
e himfelf.
Gen. Serrurier's division pafied the river,
nin proportion as it arrived,—and ranged it
n felf in battle array to serve as a corps of re
r serve.
In that day we took from the enemy fix
pieces of cannon, one Gen. several superior
r f ' officers, and made from four to five hundred
prisoners. . The quickness of our display &
1. manoeuvre, and the superiority of our artij
-0 lery, alarmed the enemy to such a degree,
[ that they would not make a stand, and pro
fited by.the night to take flight.
The acjjutant-gen. Jiellermann received
k several cuts with the fabre —in charging at
! the head of the cavalry with his usual cou
i- i rage. '
1 lam going to occupy myfelf in reward
it • ingthe officers who dittinguifhed themselves
in the different "aftions.
HI Signed,
BUONAPARTE.
je ———
of General Buonaparte to the Executive Di
,<j reftory.
« Head-quarters at Gradifca, 30th
Ventofe, 10th March.
" Citizens Direftoes,
' " I have given you anaccount of the pal
-,y sage of the Piava, of the battles of Lon
gara —of Sacile, and
,e, "The 18th, the Division of gen. Ber.
nadotte departed at 3 o'clock in the morn-,
ing, marched round Palvanova, and took
ks polition on the torrent of the Torre, where
ny the hussars met him.
he '" The division of Gen. Serrurier, took
:e- position on the right, that of Gen. Guieux
lit on the left. I sent the citizen Lafalle, with
the 24th regiment of cheffeurs, to Udine.
he " The enemy at our approach evacuated
re; Palmanoma, where we found 30,000 rations
ne of bread, &c. It was but 10 days before
that Prince Charles seized that pkee from
to the Venetians ; he wifned to occupy it ;
but he had not had time to establish himfelf
ive there.
■ny " Gen.* Maflena, arrived at St. Daniel—
at Giopo, at Gemona, and pushed his ad
on vanced guards into the defiles.
:r; " The 29th, Gen. Bernadotte, advanced
of and blocked up Gradifca; Gen. Serrurief
ier.j marched opposite St. Piftro, for thejiur
:zd ; pose of crofiing the Ifonzo. The enemy
ant had several pieces of cannon, and iome bat
-111 talions on the other fide, for defending the
ich pafiage.
red '" lordered several manoeuvres to alarm
at the enemy, and the patTage was effected
of without ayy opposition. J cannot forget
mp the trait of courage of Citizen Androffey, ;
chief of brigade of artillery, who, ordered
as- to. try whether the river was fordable, pre
aod cipitated himfelf into the water, and pal
fed and repa(Ted on foot..
Iky,i '
ny ; Passage of L'lfotizo, and the capture of
mf' . Gradifca.
' " Gen. Serrurieurreached Gradifca, by h«
idi march upon the heights which governed
ny's- this town.
ness "To make a diversion, and to preclude
cm, the enemy from the discovery of our man,-
—. oeuvre, Gen. Bernadotte caused the riflemen
was to attack them in .their entrenchmerits ; but
Hid- our soldiers, impelled by their natural ardor,
advanced with their fixed bayonets, to the
livi very walls o.f Gradifca. They were there
the received by a heavy difeharge of musketry,
em- and grape (hot. Gen. Bernadotte, obliged
icrs, to support them, brought forward four pic
and ces of cannon to force the £ates —but they
If in were defended by 1 a fleche well intrenched,
a, 1 " Gen. S.eiyurieur, in the mean time, arriv.
'ith ed upon the heights which commanded
Gradifca, rendering every means of retreat
n set impossible. The enemy, panic struck, fair
the no pofiibility of defence, and despaired of
la no making their escape. Gen. Bernadotte
alva- presented the summons subjoined, when the
enemy capitulated,
•ond " Five thousand prisoners, .the flower of
the Prince Charles's army, ten pieces of can
cm- non, and eight ftsndards, were the fruits of
lon th'is manoeuvre. We at the fame time paf
h it fed L'lfonzo, and took Gradifca.
aid- " The ditifion of Gen. Bernadotte condu&ed itfclf with that gallantry which guc- s*k>
rantees our. future success. Gen. Bema
dotte hirafelf, his aid-tie-camp, and genen!s foji
braved every diflkultf and danger. - X pjrt
cit the rank of Gen. of Brigade foradju-' t hkt
tant gen- Mirieuiv vis,
wbi<
Battle of Capfola. «
" The diviiion of Gen Maffena, carryiny |
the f'irft of L* Cliinfa, encountering the en-
em „ ~vho wiflied to dispute the paifage of
the bridge of Cafafola. The riflemen for
ced the enemy to fall back, and immediately I
after the grenadiers of the 32d and 57th bro
liemi-brigadc, in close columns, forced the a£ti'
bridge, beating the enemy, not with (landing gra,
iheir entrenchments arid cheva.ix rfe friefe, Au
puriuing them to Pontieba, taking 600 pri- fide
foners, all belonging to the regiments lately tirn
brought from the Rhine. All maga- tro<
aine "which the enemy pofieffed on this fide his
became all our pyoptrty. _ by
u fj ie fangers of 'the 10th regiment,— be
with sword in hand, rulhed forward into
the enemy's entrenchments, and have confe- giv
cuently new claims to the esteem of the ar- ma:
iuy. ins
Signed, BUONAPARTE. an
1 afti
Buonaparte to the Executive Directory, att
" Head-quarters, Goritz, 2d Germi- full
nal, 22d March.. Ar
" Citizen Dire&ors,. me
»We entered yetterday into Goretz. of
The enemy'b" army have effedted their re- | tali
treat with fo> much precipitation, that it has j of
left in our hands four holpitals, containing frc
j 5,00 sick, and all the magazines of provi- off
fions and warlike ammunition, of which I arc
will give you an account by. the next cou- du
rier. r rd
11 The riivifion of Gen. Bernadotte went y> i- ; pe
terdat US Gamiza ; his advanced gutsrd and tl e | nl
riar'gitf'd of the enemy have had a ren.olK-.le
at Cirroimi. The 19th regiment of chaffcurs
charged the enefoy with so much impetuosity,
that they made ij hussars prifotiers with their a
hirst*. ' Gen. Mafiena pursued the enemy to at;
U Pontieba. BtJQNARARTE. in
iw
Buonaparte to the Executive Dire&ory.
" Head-quarters, Goritz, 4th Germinal,
" Citizen Diredlors, 24th March. 1
«« You will find subjoined an account of the »
art'cUi we tfave found in Goritz. I will fend
to you, by (He next courier, an account of those '."a
we have found in Trielle. T
14 vy e arc maflers of the celebrated mines of m
d'Ydria ; we have there found substance pre- 0 j
pared fir two millions. We are placing it in
the waggons, and if this operation fuoceeds fc.
without any accident, it will be very ufeful t®
our finances. BUONAPAKTE," F><
Buonaparte to the Executive Diredlory. _ ni
Head-quarters, Goritz, 4'h Germi- Jj.
' nal, March 24. p
« Citizen Direaors.
•1 Gen. Gui«ux, with his division, went on
the second to Cividale at Caporetto ; he ther<; «
encountered the enemy entrenched at Pufero, 1<
attacked them, and took from them two pieces si
of cannon anil 100 prisoners, and pursued them c ,
into the defiles of Caporetto in the Austrian t]
Chinfe, and left the field of battle covered with
Adrians. • r a
Gen. Maflena with his divisions is at I ar- ,
vis I have therefore reason to hop« that the t.
1000 men whom Gen. Guieux has pushed be- /
fore iiim, will fall into the hands of the dm- I
Con of Mafiena. t , j<
" The general of division, Dugna entered f
Trieste last night. BUONAPARIE. j
Gen. Bernadotte to the Austrian Commander
• of Gradifca. f
t( Head-quarters, Gradifca, 29th t
Ventofe, March 19. r
" You have defended yourfclf, Sir, like a
brave m.in, and by year conduit yon have ac- £
quired the cittern of soldiers. But {
Ijtifiinacy would be a crime which I would make
fall on v'ou principally ; and for the purpose
of juftifying myfelf to pofter.ty, I now sum- 1
mon you to surrender ir. ten minutes. It you
refufe 1 will put ycur troops to the iword. j
Spare blood ! The principles el philanthropy ]
which ought to animate a chief, impose on yon
this obligation. The stales are preparedand (
the grenadiers and chafieurs demanded the al
fault with loud cries. ,
Buonaparte, commander in chief of the army-.
ct Italv, to the Executive Directory.
" litad-quarters at Goritz, j Germinal,
(Maren 15,) fifth year.
" Citizen Direilors,
" J gave you an acesunt by my lait courier,
that a column of the army of Prince Charles
was hemmed in between the division of Gen.
Maflena, who was at Tarvis and thatofGen.
Guineux, who on arriving at Caporette, pulh
ed it into the defiles.
Battle of Tarvis. ,
«• Gen. Miffena, being arrived at Tarvis,
was attacked by a division of the enemy, which
left Clagcnferth, and came to.the a.filtance of
the division that was hemmed in. After a con
flia extremely obstinate, he put it to the route,
and took a vatt number of prisoners, among
whom are three generals. The Emperor s 1
rsifieurs, who arrived from the Rhine have Nt
fered molt severely.
ENGAGEMENT OF LA CHINSE.
«' Meanwhile gen. Guieux drove the column
which he had defeated to Pufero, as far as the
Auflrian Chinfe, a post extremely we 1 entren
tKed, but which was carried by afiault alter a
very obstinate engagement, in which general
Don Verdier, and the fourth h»lf bngade, as
well as the 43d. particularly diftinguilhedthem
-1 felvcs. Gen. Kahleshimftlf defended theChmltf
With jeo grenadiers : by the law. of war theft
\OO men ought to wave bee* put to the sword,
but this barbarous right has always been di
elai.nedj and never beenexercifed by the trench
lr ' l, * s The hofiile eolamn, fering the Chir.fe ta
ken, precipitated its march, and feil into the
middle of the division of Gen. MafTena, ww,
after a flight combat, made the whole column
prisoners ; 30 pieces of cannon, 400 wazgons
carrying the baggage of the enemy, 5000 men,
and foui Generals, fell into our hand!. 1
ragerio apprize you ot this event, beeauie un
der the present eircumfiances it- is i»dupeiiTaole
ill at you (honld be informed of every thing
without delay. I reserve it to gi*e you a more
account of all theft events *s ffton as I
Ciafl have received all the reports and as loon
js everv momint lhajl be Jets preciotis;
" Tlk chain of the Alps, which part» Frs.nre
atvd Switzerland from ftaly, separates the Ital
part ofTyml front the German part, the
Venetian Aa: at from tletl rr.iuoo/ of the Ein-
piror, and Cariutbia frcm tie county or G>>r T
azand Gradifca. The div fion rf {J ie -
has crossed the Italian Alps. Our enemies were aUac
at to enthral all their baggage and , ie
part of the armj by the Noric Alp», who were
that moment taken. The tneagement of Tar mct2
vis, was fought above the clouds, on a height witn
w ; hich commanded Germany in fever. 1 parts to Fie'.t
which our line extendeil the snow lay three
feet deed, and the cavalry, charging on the p e( c^. (
ice, fuffered accidents, the result of which were j\ TC '
extiemely fatal to the enemy's cavalry. rr r
(Sipnol) BUONAPAKTE."
LONDON, April 8, to 11. Gor
Privaee accountsreceivedfromViennahave
brought the difagrccable news of a general 2 4 1 '
ailion having taken place between the two m y»
grand armies in the Tyrol, in which the a ' oa
Austrian army was defeated with very con- xen
fiderable loss ; and the Archduke for a fliort *°> c
time taken prisoner, some of the enemy's j P r ''
troops having seized his horse's bridle ; but !
; his Royal Highness was very soon rescued j
by some of his soldiers. He is reported to omt
■ be wounded- '
» The following additional particulars are g lv(
• given also : that Buonaparte apprised of the hed
■ march of a numerous body of troops to re- F r:
inforce the army of Prince Charles, made too
an attack upon his Royal Highness, -which, kill
after an obstinate and desperate ccnflift was °hl
. attended with complete fuecefs. The re- F r ' :
- fult of this unfortunate affair was that the l' ai
Archduke, thus cut off from his reinforce- Au
ments immediately retreated into the circle f<iu
- of Austria, leaving the French general to Ar
-1 take quiet poffeflion of ofthe important polls
s ; of Villecli, inCarinthia, about 60 leagues
rr , f rom Vienna. In the above aftion eleven cor
i- officers belonging to one Austrian regiment Fn
I are said to have been killed ; and the arch- an
1- duke, as before stated, in his endeavours to Tj
retrieve the fate of the day, narrowly efca- th«
f-| ped, in a wounded condition, from falling Sa
e into the hands of the enemy. The heroic |
e behaviour of his Royal Highness upon this Fr
rS occasion, is spoken of in terms of the highest tra
ir admiration. On' the intelligence of this rcj
io reaching Vienna, that city was thrown trc
into the utmost consternation, and, in the 1,11
moment of alarm, many of the inhabitants an
proceeded to pack up their property, for
' the purpose of removing it to a place of
; greater security. ls '
ld Such are the general outlines of the pri- o"
ife vate advices received upon this fubjeft.—
The official dispatches received by govern- c«£
ment on Thurday, it is however neceifary to he
e ; observe, make no mention whatever of any of
\ n general engagement having taken place.— au
They, however make mention, that the im- let
perialifts had been defeated in a partial ac
tion, with the loss of one general and 1800 th
men taken prisoners ; and adds, that there eh
li_ had been several affairs of polls, in which the w
French were generally victorious. The fe<
archduke, it is allowed on all hands, has re- fp
™ treated into Carinthia, but whether in con
ro, sequence of the defeat stated to have been th
:es sustained by him, or for the purpose of con- fit
:m centrating his force for the defence of Auf- L
; an tria, is difficult to mention.
lth In the account lately given of the secret m
ar . articles of the treaty signed at Basle, and ra- so
he tified by a new Convention on the 6th of it
be- August last, at Berlin, between Prussia and ti
vi- France, it was stated that his Prussian Ma- a
jefty had made certain flipulations fbt him- a.
rcd felf, the Stadtholder, and the Prince of d
Hesse. The following was the project. «
,j er of Prussia to have the fertile
I provinces of Munfter, which lies contiguous v
9th to his other possessions in the north of c!
many. . 1
■ a The Stadtholder to have the bilhopncks J>
ac " I ofßamburghand Wartzbourg, which were 1
'^ r I to be formed into an Eleftorate ? U
i'ofe I The Prince of Hesse to have the abbey of b
im- J Fulda ; "
pu J And the Ele£lor of Hanover to have the J.
• I principalities of Oxnaburgh, as a bonus for J
°P>' I his acquiescence in, this partition.
V°" Every information supports the belief, r,
a " f 1 that let the war terminate as it may, the J
a I King of Prussia as well as the French Di- 1
ion, reftory, will be foiled in their plans of fecu- •;
" larifing Germany, and of reducing the Em- I
peror's authority as Chief of the Empire. <
rmy A letter from Frankfort of the 14th inft. «
states that 36,000 peaiants. inhabiting the i
" a ' Speffart, have offered to arm, and to join t
I the Imperial army of the Lower Rhine, in
rier, order to defend their country against another j
irles French invasion. 1
>n. General Hoche has published aproclama- 1
sen " tion, abolilhing all the Freach adminiftra- j
uf k" tions in the Prussian provinces on the left 1
I bank of the Rhine. '
April 11. '
rvis, 1 The dispatch from Colonel. Graham in
hich the London Gazette of Saturday evening, .
eot is so far fatisfadory, as it enables the public _
con " to ascertain the position of the Archduke's
>ute * j Army in Italy, which "has been very errone
'euf °ufly Teprefented. Instead of hi 3 Royal
fuf- Highness having been forced to retreat to
' Clagenfurt, the capital of Carinthia, it ap-
I pears that on the 20th ult. he was only at
I Vippach. in Carniola, about twenty miies
un ? n from Grandiika, and 50 from Triefte—
-5 I This position is much more favorable than
ler"a I that which the Archduke was reported to
have taken, and he can here receive the re
e, as inforcements which are fending to him, with
hem-1 out any interruption from the French,
hinl'e I Jt is admitted in the Gazette, that the
these I Archduke was too weak to meet the French
"iff' in a general battle j and accordingly he has
■encli I ve T prudently retreated.
I Yesterday morning the Hamburgh mail
seta- I became due, on Sunday arrived in town. —
> the We are sorry to ftatethat the account which
wbo, I it brings are unfavorable to the cause of the
luinn I
tgons I ; n t e Jligence from the frontiers of Ita
™e"' ly, dated on the 22 ult. is, that the French
, have, in consequence of the defeat of Gen.
stable Lufinan, become matters of the whole Bank
thing of the Piave, from the Adriatic Seaa, to
more I Cadore.
n ' I An article from Milan mentions the re
loon ceipt of information on the I ith ult. of the
I French having again defeated the Auftrians,
lul- I having passed the Tagliamento, and having
t, thi-1 advanced by Palma Nuovo toward» Goritz
• Em-1 and Trieste.
The advices from Infpruck ar: dated on napartt
> the 22& Tii i French 01 the lothhad, :;:?/«//
c attacked the Av.llriar. army ia the centre, orderh
near - them 1
rattz, and 0.1 the left near Mor.tc-Corona,
t with considerable lof.'> on both fides. Tlie M>
O Field Mr.rftal was compelled to retire to on the
e Neumavk, where, however, it was not ex- for a ;
e pefted he could msmtain h:s position. The the Fr
e Archdake had been obliged to retreat from iions r
UJine, in order to cover the entirons of " '
Gortz an 1 Trie ft. exceeJ '
re A Courier paifed through Bafie on the motion
a l 24th, with advices, according to Barehele- tion la.
0 j my, the French ambafTador at that place of the pr
1C a bat;»' having taken place between Bot- negocu
xen rrid Trieft, in which thn Auftrians had Empe 1
r t io,ooo men killed and wounded, 4000 made portun
> s prisoners, and 30 pieces of cannon, and their and t).
u t usual train of artillery taken. On this sub- immea
>d jet!, however, Barthelemy had received no enna,
to official communication.- ' fu'rfab
The Vienna letters dated on the 25th ult. and U
re g' ve an account of the French having attac- equita
he ked the lines of the Auftrians in Venetian In
• e - Friuli, on which occasion a bloody battle Pitt 1
de took plaee : a great number of men were farth
h, killed 011 both fides, and the Auftrians were ly in
r as obliged to retreat behind the Ifonzc. The rated
re . French then entered Udine, and threatened plairu
he Palma Nuovo, and even Trieft. Two miffio
;e- Auiirian Generals were made prisoners—2 mojl
;le ffjuadrons of HufTars cut to pieces—and the cert •
to Archduke Charles, who difplayedthe great- both t
fts eft hcroifm was nearly made prisoner. event
lcs These accounts however, are not without more
r e n contradictions in the foreign gazettes. The conce
;nt Frankfort Journal of the 29th ult. contains as m
;h- an article from the from the frontiers of the refol
Ito Tyrol, dated on the 2.lft, one day later than but i
ca- the official accounts in the Gazettee of last been
[ng Saturday, which is as follows : used
0 ; c i " According to some accounts, the deba
his 1 French column which attempted to pene- defig
left trate by the Puftcrthal to Brixen, has been its 0'
his: rrpulfcd in several places by the imperial ever
wn i troops. The latter have already regained pero
the I their advanecd posts on the fide of Cadore whi
ints j and Belluna." _ _ "nu
f or | From the frontiers of Suabia, on the 26th fine]
;of ultimo, it appears that a deputation from the did.
senate of Venice had passed through Milan, certt
pri- on their way to Paris, to protest against the the j
late union of the Venetian diftrida of Btef
•rn- cia, Bergama and Verona, with the repub- Fro
yrto lie of Lombardy. The report of the capture
any of Gortm and Trieft by the French, was not
authenticated at the time of the date of the
i m . letters. iff"
ac- Mr. Hammorf, under secretary of ftateio on.
800 the foreign department, 'is the gentleman he i
iere charged with the important mission. He fom,
the will set off iu the eourfe of this day, and pro. ceffi
rhe fecute hii route to Vienna with all pofiible inj
sre- speed. °f '
:0 n- We think it proper particularly to remark, ™
ieen that this important miffionisthe refultof very tng.
:on- flattering proportions from the French to the abo
Luf- Empeqor, to induce him to make a feperate peace, hiy
bid which the latter rejeßed with the magnani- the
cret mous firmnefs and heroic conflancy which have deb
Ira- so peculiarly marked his conduß throughout the the
1 of whole of the present contefl. A joint negocia
and tion, it is now conceived, may be entered upon
Ma- with probable iffeß } and it is for this purpose a >
lirn- asJlated by Mr. Pitt, lafimght in the important Bi
e of debate in the house of commons, that the present tto>
mifjion to Vienna has been appointed.
rtile Private letters from Hanover, of the 26th th
nous ult.fpiak of it fate paper being ordered to be ,th
3er" delivered by the Emperor of Rujfia to the 1-
" King of Prujia, declaring that if the latter j
-icks Jhould either form closer conneßions with the . ta
were French Republic, or conceive any plan tending .g<
to impair the Germanic cotjlitution, by difmem- j t
e y of bering the ecclejictflical Jlates, or in any other jen
manner, the Empetor of Ruffiafhould feel htm
e the felf bound to accede to the coalition, and to ' an
is for Jlrengthen in by an army of 20,000 men. j
Tejlerday afternoon, Mr. Caurvoifeur, the tti
elief, mejfenger, arrived with dif patches from Sir M. | w
, the Eden, at the Court of Vienna ; he landed at , _
1 Di- Harwich in the Prince of Orange Packet, tn
fecu- which the Duke of Wirtemberg and suit em- ,rc
Em- barked from Cruxhaven, and were left at Har- «
re. wich yeflerday morning at Jix o'clock. His e
1 inft. Serene Highness is expeSed in town this even- < w
g the ing. Inthisjhip a million of money, in gold tr
join andfilver, is brought from Hamburgh. 1
e, in From holy under the day of the I §th 9 tt dp- P (
other pears that the Venetians, alarmed at the proba- is
bility of attack from the French, and at a re- , c '
lama- monjlrance made to them by General Buona- a
liftra- parte, on their partiality to the Auftrians, had ci
e left agreed to pay a million of zechins to France, "
tobe treated as a neutral power. Other ac- e:
counts slate the probability of tbetr joining the . t>.
im in Aujlrians. . Q , . ' o
:ning, Private letters from Bremen, of 1 m- «
lublic form us, that the eongrefs ajembled at
uke's heim, to maintain the line of. demarcation, had
Tone- been di/lurbed by a proclamation from Holfletn w
Royal and Lubeck, the slates on the other fide of the o
eat to Elbe, that they will no longer pay any thing to- n
it ap- wards the maintenance of this line. The king
ily at of Prussia immediatelypublifhed acounter-procla- !
miies motion, by which he announced his intention to a
fte.— withdraw all h 'ts troops. It was not, how- «
than ever, fuppofedthat matters would be carried to a
ted to extreLs and the only result that was likely to a
he re. follow, was the diminution of the army of ob- t
with- fervation there. ri 1
Two gentlemen on Friday failed from Do
at the ver in a Prufian hoy to Calais. They said
•rench eighty guineas for their pa/age, and agreed to j
he has pay two guineas per day demurrage, should the , -
vessel be detained at Calais, in consequence oj (
h mail the embargo. Various are the conjeßures as \
wn.— to the cause of their vijit. The unfavourable }
which circumfiances under which it was undertaken, J
of the 'induces an opinion that it is of some importance.
A letter from Milan of the infant, in- I
of Ita- forms, that in the vicinity of Macerata,at Jeyt, <
French and m several other cases, partial mfurreßions i
f Gen. have of late taken place ; and that Jevi has i
* Bank been plundered and nearly deflroyed by the j
:aa, to French military, in consequence of 40 trench i
dragoons having been put to death by the tnbabt- j
■here- tants. General Buonaparte has marched from
'of the Mantua at the head of a xonjiderable
ftrians, attack the Adrian army tn Frmli. The ja- .
having cobins cf the Ciffadan Republic have endea- .
GoritZ 1 voured to excite commotions in the principal ct-
I ties, andefpccitlly at Bchgra. General Buo
-1 *
naparte has ifftred a thundering proclamation a- to D
gahtfi all Murbers of the public Uanquility, marc)
the commandant of Bologna to treat Ac
them with severity. tle 'r
Mr. Pitt in the Britijh Houfeof Commons, fides :
on the ioth of April, in oppnfition to a motion mdem
for a rene-wal of negociat'nns for peace iviih the lei
the French Republic, made the following objec- the V
. . felf u
'.ions .
" That the difpnfitton of miniflers for peace even 1
exceeded any recommendation in the
motion ;. that in corfequence of the communica
tion lately receivedfrom the Court of Vienna of
the proposals made by France for a fparate
negociation, and of the rejeSion of them by the o
Emperor, fieps had been taken to use that op- th
portunity for setting on foot a joint negociation ; en j
and that his majfly's miniflers had determined -whole
immediately io fend a confidential person to Vi- yard,
enna, with such injlrudions as they thought £j»j.
suitable to the present circumflances of Europe, F( r
and to the w'fih of obtaining for it afecure and v, ho \
equitable peace" the pi
In answer to Mr. Fox's observations, Mr.
Pitt repeated—« That be could not fee how
far thepurpofe, which was evidently and equal
ly in the view of all parties, was to be accele
rated by the present motion. He had fully ex- (
plained, what the purpose of Mr. Hammond's j[
I mifpon to Vienna was, '' to adopt the means u nitc
mojl likely to bring about a pacification in con- No
cert with his majefly's ally." The object of fliare:
■ both parties was the fame, and the important
events which had lately taken place rendered it
more necejfary than ever that they Jhould ad tn j |
: concert. This flep was Jefolved upon as soon irtwJ
s as miniflers were informed of the magnanimous to pr
; resolution of the Emperor not to make a peace
1 I but in concert with Great-Britain. This had
t been contradicted, becavfe the fa 3 had not been , L-l
used in argument when the Emperor's loan was
; debated. It was omitted by him, but not un
- deftgnedly. He chose to leave the queflion on p
1 its own ground, after he had slated, in Q a p
il every pojfible view of the circumflances the Em-
J peror was entitled to our aid. The advices
e which hadJince been received were certainly of
an unfortunate tenor ; the real extent of the bu
h finefs was not, however, as yet known. He
e did not a3 upon those advices, though he Jhould
i, certainly combine them with his other views of J
e the proceeding."
From the St. Jamf.s's Chronicle, April 11. Q
e Tuesday—one o'clock. Cloi
(t - Cha
e Yeflerday at noon the gentlemen who had
offered to contrail for the ensuing loan waited _
n on Mr. Pitt, according to appointment, when
n he informed them that Jince he lafl saw them,
[e some circumflances had arisen which made it ne-
). ceffary for him, as the agent of the public, and
le injujlice to themfelves,to pojipone the settlement
of the loan for some days, until he saw what
l y was likely to be the turn of events now pend- ~D
ry ing. He told them that Mr. Hammond was m
be about to set out for Vienna immediately, and that RE
■ e , he should explain himfelf more particularly in <r.
the House of Commons ; to our report of the ibt
ve debate in which we refer our readers, for fur
he ther information on this interefling fubjeß. J™
a . Yeflerday, about half pafi one o'clock, Mr.
on Newland went to the Stock Exchange, and read
o f e a letter which Mr. Pitt had written to the <nt
,nt Bank Directors, acquainting him of his inten
nt tion to pojipone the loan. ; . . Zl
In consequence of this communication, m
\th the funds rose between 2 and 3 per cent; and f tr
he the last loan left off at a discount of only 8 of
th e j 1-4 per cent. _ ""
ter j Mr. Hammond leaves town this day, and J.
the takes with him a secretary and two metTen
ing 1 gers.
, m . j Buonaparte adopted the plan ot commcn- et
her ! cing his operations before the expeftcd re-
: m _ ' inforcements had joined the Imperial army ; ™
t 0 ' and attacked the Auftrians at all points, lle
j with the fame attivity which he dilplaycd in
t he the course of the last campaign, and which t c
HI. i was crowned with such success,
at j The archduke, it is true, has not been de- f n
i„ seated in any general engagement, but his
m . royal highness has, notwithstanding, been
ar . ! completely routed in every direction, at dif-
W s ferent periods ; and the precipitation with «
, en . { which his whole force is now flying before
■old the enemy, leaves little doubt of the entire Ej
I dilcomfiture of the whole of his plans ; ef- at
a p. pecially when it is considered that his retreat St
/ a . is the obvious result of the following melan- _
re . , choly loss, if we are to credid the statements
na _ ' already come to hand :—13,640 men, in
kad eluding nine generals, one colonel and feve
nce, ral officers of inferior rank, made, prisoners
ac- excluijve of those who were taked at the
the battle of Travis ; 30,000 rations of bread,
| 40 pieces of cannon, 400 baggage waggons,
in- \ 8 standards, 50 huflar horses, immense quan- .
'/ief- tities of provisions, warlike stores, maga
hid zines, &c. and the quicksilver mines j of
lei n which it is said two millions are in prepared
■the ore. The posts and towns which the Impe- k
r to- rialifts have been forced to surrender to the R
iing French appear to be very numerous. t
,cla- i The Hamburgh mail Rates, that in the f
, to aftion between Botzen and Trie ft e, the Au- »
ow . ftrians.loft 14,000 men in killed, wounded f
dto and prisoners, together with 30 guns, and f
' y to all their camp equipage. Upon the Rhine, y
ob- the re-commencement of hostilities is daily ;
! expefted to take place. '
Do- j , -
t a id ! BRITISH STOCKS.
rdto j Bank flock 127 ex. div.j per cent. red. (
I the 3-4ths. 3 per ct. cons. 52 5-Bths 52.
f of FRANKFORT, March 25. ,
!as \ A great number of letters, which arrtved
-able yeflerday from Basle, bring advice, that a con
-Iken, ference, which kfled two days, has taker, place
wee. between the archduke Charles, Prince d'Aiem
in- berg, and General's Buonagarte and Clarke,
fevi, on the other. The proposals of peace, made by
lions the French generals to the archduke, are said to
: has have been equitable, and indeed very advanta
■ the geous to Auflria; and they only waited the ret
rench turn of the courier, whom his highness hadt. f
habi- patched to Vienn, topublfh the armjKce, winch
from was to precede the further negociatnns in Italy,
rce to Baron Degelmc.nn is said to haw frequent con
• Ja- ferences with Barthclemy at Bcfle, who hat
ndea- sent several couriers to P arts,
,al ci- The French division of gen. Championet
Buo- is bow gene from the environs of Coblentz
I' 'I
to DuffeldorfF, but the troops refuted t<j
march.
Accounts fiom Venice state, that the
French government has offered to Anftria
the reflorat'on of Mantua and Milan, be
sides a large tra£lof territory in Italy, ;;s art
indemnity for Belgium and the Provinces on
the left bank of the Rhine. That part of
the Venetian State, winch has declared it
felf under the protection of the French, is
even said to be destined for that purpose.
To be iold m let,
sfr.d itnmcdutte pvjfcjJWn given,
A gentetf two story Brick House ;
SI i UaTE on end of Broad-street, in
the city of Burlington, with Tour rooms and
an entry on each fiooL goo'd cellars fender the.
■whole, a pump In the yard, a garden and court
yard, containing nearly half an acre under good
lence, with a (table adjoining the ya*;d. The
whole property is in good order.
Fer terms apply to ihe fubfcrlber in Bvrlington,
who will give a credit for a confider*ble part of
the purchsfe money if cjooil security is given.
William Cexe, jun.
M«y 17. lawtf
NOTICE.
THE fybferiber having sent by the ship Nancy,
Capt. Perry, the following certificates of the
United States bank (lock, to wit :
No. 26,005, to 26014, inclusive, for three
(hares each—and the said vefTel having been cap
tured on her intended voyage to England* wh c?i
will m»ft probably occasion the joss of the laid
certificates, gives this public notice,
That he ftiail apply at the proper offices f®r a re
newal of them, and that mear.s have been- taken
to prevent any improper transfer.
Henry Philips,
No. 11», South Front-flree?.
Tunc r. t 3iw6w
Now Landing,
At Pratt's <wharf,
FROM on board the (hip Thomas Chi'.kleyrf
Capt. Rater, from Bourdeaux,
CLARET in calks
Ditto in cases *
White Wine Vinegar
Red Skins in boxes
For Sale by
Rundle & Leech. ,
" May 1; $
Qold and Silver Watches,
OF an excellent quality, and neat falhionabls
Gold Chains, S«ils and Keys, Eight Day
Clocks and Time Pieces, faihionable Steel and Gill t
Chains, &c. &c. for Sale by
r JOHN J. PARRY,
J Clock and Watchmaker, No. 38. S. id flr< j et.
gj" Clocks and Watches of all kinds carefully
rspaired.
' May 19. toes. &fa. 3W
[ Advertisement.
PURSUANT ta an Oritr from tie Orphans' Court,
•will be /Mat PUBLIC SALE, at Cranberry, on
' Wednesday, tbe 14lb day of June next, all that valuable
I REAL EST a T late belling to the Rev. Gilbtrt
n T. Sno-evden, deceifed, lying in and near Cranberry, it
C the county of MidJlefitx, townfbip of South Srun/kuict,
: Hate of Ne~w Jersey, upon tbe lower Jlage road leading
from Philadelphia to New Tori. A very elegant frame
hojfe in a beautiful and healthy fltuestiem, pair.ted "white,
"• -with Venetian window-flutters, thirty feet front and
d thirty-eight feet deep, two rooms with a handfoste hall or
be entry on the flrft floor, three rooms on tbe second floor and
two well-finijbedgarrets. In the reir cf the house is an
excellent t-.vo-flory building a dining-room f,r
work people, spacious pantries and a large\litfbei, with
11 ' every convenience, and aver tbefe are three chambers for
id servants. To the right is an additional building eonfl/linr
8 of a chamber below and a library above—under the whole
are very fine cellars paved with brick. Tbe house is en
j tircly new and flnifled with tafle. Every room is hung
with bells thai lead both to the kitchen and the fcrvunts'
n * apartments : there is a pump in the yard, and a flene
a d brick pavement round tbe whole house, which is cnclof
n- ei with a bated] ome railing, with three gates in front•
e _ Tht farm con lifts of one hundred and ftxty seven acres*
with a proportion of woodland and meadow, under excel
' ' lent fence ; a garden with pale fence ; a large barn, fia-
s > Mr.-, eeirriagc-houfc, cow-bouses, \S'c. all nersu, and built
in in the best manner : with a young orchard of 100 grafted
:h trees. Nearly adjoining said farm is a lot of IVooMand
of t'lebiP. quality, containing $7 acres. Alfi a truSi of
Imd within seven miles of Cranberry, containing one bum
? dredani fifty acres, three-fourths meadorv mi there!} ex
11S celicit timber. Ibis will be fold in lots or together, as
en ,„/// bej! suit tbe purcbaferi.
[f. The paymer:ts, one third cash—one third in otte year—
[Jj an't e remaining third, one year following, with inter eft
on t'le two hfl payments, and approved futurity.
Ie For further particulars enquire of Nathaniel Hunt,
re Esq. or Dr. Ralph Lott, Cranbeery; of Isaac Snowden,
-f- at Princeton ; or of Isaac Snowden, Jun. No.l+l South
'at Second street, Philadelphia.
May 2J s6mwftS
To be fold cheap,
re- To close an adventure,
:rs 7 Bales Baftaj
he 2 ditto CofTas
[C j Apply at the Store of
IS ' Mordecai Lewis.
in . May 16 eoaw
; a - TO BE SOLD,
°, A va'"jf.ble three story Brick House ;
QITUATE in Lodge alley, next to the bank of
se " O Pennsylvania, the lot on which it ftamls, to
he jrether with tbe vacant lot adjoining, which ex
tends to Goforth-ftreet. The house is about 50
;he feet in front on Lodge alley, and about 41 feet
IU . in depth, the adioining lot is about 96 feet
II front on T.odge alley, and 42 feet on Goforth-
L | street, being a street which leads from Chelnut
ftreet and Carter's alley into Dcck-Oreet at the
" e > ho. J'e market. The house confills of ten lodg
'ily ing rooms, with fix fire plares, two' dining
rooms, one of them forty feet in length, the
either about thirty-four feet, each containing
two fire placts, two parlours and a large kit
,j chen, with extenlive cellars under, and garrets
over the whole, a privilege of a vacant lot
of ground to the eastward between this houi'e
and the bank, a pump of excellent waler in the
ved ynd, a handsome piazza fronting the vacant
■on- lot, and a frame stable and dwelling house on
lace Goforth-ftreet. The prrmifes now rent for
cm- £'3 |B P" annum. To be fold clear of all in
-1 cumbrances.
| A , 9 For terms apply to John Cltment Sfotkrr•
e ,h April so ' 3*wtf
dto
TEAS.
&f. \ FEW thefts of Imperial, Hyson Skin and
fa/, l\. Souchong Teas of a fupetior quality for
, / tale at the ftore.of the fubferiber, the north
"'J' weft corner of .Market and Third-streets.
Patent Shot.
hat ALSO,
A large CELLAR to be let at a very low renv
onet Enuuireas above of RICHARD U ISTAK.
entz April 291 ftu&thimProposals
for carry ing M A IL S of the i
United States on the following ]
Pojl Roads, w/7/ be received
at the General Pojl-Ojjicc, in ,
Philadelphia, ««//'/ the 317? j.
0/* Jfw/y mcx/, inclusive.
MAINE.
1. From Brewer's or Scoodic by Machiaj, Chan
dler ■* rivet aniColumbia, to Nartaguagus once
a week.
teave Brewer's every Saturday at a P M, ana
arrive at Narraguagus the ri«t Tuesday by 6 f
u— le .ve Narragu igus every Wednes
day at 6 am, and ar: ive at brewer's the mex: Sa
turday by 10 A M.
2. ffom Narraguajus by Gouldfborough, Sulli
yan,Trenton,Bluehdl, Cuftine, Penobftot, Buckf
ton, Frankfort, Profpcct and Bellaft to Dusk-
Trap once a week.
Leave Narraguagus every Wcdnefday by 6 a
m. and arrive at Puck Trap x.Vz next Saturday by
io aM. Retrying. Leave Duck Trap every Sa
turday by i p m and arrive at Narraguagus the
next Tuesday by 6 p m.
3. From Duck Trap by Camden, Thomafton,
Warren, Waldoborough, Newcastle, Wifcaffet,
Bath, Brunfwick, Freeport and Worth Yarmouth
to Portland once a week.
Leave Duck Trap every Saturday by » p m, and
arrive at Portland the next Tuesday by 6 p m. Re
turning. Leave Portland every Wednesday by 6
a M.and arrive at Duck Trap the next Saturday by
S ° 4 A from Portland by Biddeford, Welles and
York, to l'ortfmsuth.
April IS I" OSoicr Ij. Leave Portland every
Mo-.day, Wednesday and Friday by 6 a m, and ar
rive at Portsmouth the fame days by 6 p M. Return
t-7 Leave portfmouth'every Monday, Wednes
day and Friday at 9 p m, and arrive at Pertland on
the next day by 6. p m.
■ Oaoier 15 to April IS• Leave Portland every
Monday and Thursday at 6 a m, and arrive at
Portsmouth on Tuesday and Friday, by 10 A m. Re
turning. Leave Portfraouth -every Tuesday and
Friday at 1 pm, and arrive at Portland every
Wcdnefday and Saturday at s r M.
t. From Portland by Nerth-Yarmetith, Free
port, Brunfwick, Bath, Wifcalfet,Drelden, Pittl- -
ton a'*d Hallowell Hook to Hallowell court house,
once a week.
Leave Portland every Friday at 8 A. M, and ar
rive at Hallowell court-house the next Saturday by
7 PM. Returning. Leave Hallowell court-houle
every Wednesday "by s A M, and arrive at Port
land on Thursday by 6 P M.
6. From WifcafTet by Dresden, Pittfton, Hallo
well Hook, Hallowell court-house, Winthrop,
Mor.imuth, Green, New-Gloucester and Gray to
Portland once a week.
Leave Portland every Monday by 6 A M, and
arrive at WifcafTet on Wednesday noon. Return
in-'. Leave Wifcaffet on Wednesday at 3 PM, and
arrive at Portland on Friday by 6 P M.
7. From Hallowell Hook by Vaffalborongh,
Fort Halifax, Winflow, Fairfield and Canaan to
Norridgewok once a week.
Leave Hallowell Hook every Wednesday at 11
A M, and arrive at Norridgewock on Thurlday
by6PM. Returning. Leave Norridgewock on
Monday St 2P M, and arrive at Hallowell Hook
cn Tuafdfy ky P
3- From Hallowell Hook to J'arniington on San
dy river Once in two weflhs.
Leave HailoweU Houk every other Wednesday
by BAM, and arrive at Fumington by 6 P M.
Returning. Leave Farmingtpn every other Thurs
day at 8A M, and arrive at Hallowell H"ok by 6
PM.
9. From Portland by Falmouth, Gotham, Bux
t / S , Standifh, Limerick, I'arfonfield, Sbapjeigh
and Lebanon to Berwick, once in two weeks.
Leave Portland every other Monday at 8 A M,
and arrive at Berwick on Wednesday by noon.
Leave Berwick every other Wednesday at 1 P
M, and arrive at Portland 011 Friday by 6 PM.
10. From Standifh by Flinftown, Fryburg aca
demy,Conway and Tamworth to Sandwich in New
Hamplhire once in two weeks.
Leave Standifh every other Tuesday by 8 AM,
and arrive at Sandwich on Wednesday by 6 PM. Re
turning. Leave Sandwich every other Thursday at
8 A M, and arrive at Standifh on Friday by 6
P M.
It. From Wells by Waterboro', Sanford, Dough
ty's Falls, Berwick and Dover, to Portsmouth Once
a week.
Leave Wells eiiery Tu-fday' by 6 AM, and ar
rive at Portsmouth on Wednesday by ic A M. Re
turning. Leave Portsmouth every Wednesday by
2P U, and arrive at Wells next Thursday by 6
PM.
NF.IV-HAMFSIJIRE.
12. From Portsmouth by Dover, Rtfchefter and
Moultonborough to Plymouth, returningby New-
Hampton, Meradith, Gilmintewn, Nottingham
and Durham to Portsmouth once in two weeks.
Leave Portsmouth every other Wednesday by 8
A M, and arrive at Plymouth the next Friday by 6
PM. Returning. Receive the mail at Plymouth
every other Saturday by 8 A M, and return to
Portsmouth the next Tuesday by 4 P M.
Note. " The poll is to go and return on this route
alternately."
13- From Portsmouth by Exeter, Chester, Lon
donderry, Amherlt, Peterborough and Marlbo
rough to Keene, once a week.
Leave Portsmouth every Thursday by 8 A M,j
arrive at Exeter by one P M, at Chaster by 6 P M,
and at Keene on Saturday by 4 P M. Returning. '
Leave Keeoe every Monday by 8 A M, arrive at
Chester on Tuesday by 4 P M, at Exeter on Wed
nesday by 9 AM, arid at Po. tfmouth by 4 P M.
14. From Concord by Plymouth to Haverhill,
once a week.
Leave Concord every Monday by 6 AM, arrive
at Plymouth on Tuesday by 3 P M.and at Haver
hill on Wednesday by 4 P M. Returning. Leave
Haverhill every Thursday by 8 AM, arrive at
Plymouth on Friday by 9 A M, and at Concord «n
Saturday by 4 P M.
15. From Exeter to Hampton Falls, three times
a week from April 15 to October 15, and twice a
week from Oilobcr 15 to April lj.
Leave Hampton falls in one hour after the arriv
al alter the arrival of the mail from Boston, and
deliver it atExetfcrin two hours, remain at Exeter
two hours and return to Hampton Falls in fix
hours from th«time of leaving it.
MASSACHUSETTS.
16. Ffom Newburyport, Haverhill, Kingflon,
Exeter, New Market and Durham to Dover once
.a week.
Leave Newburyport°e»ery Monday by 10 4. M,
arrive at Dover on Wednesday by noon. Return
ing. Leave Dover on Wednesday by 3 P M, and
arrive at Newburyport on Friday by 3 P
17. From Salem to Gloucester once a wick.
Leave Gloucetler every Wednesday by 7 A M,
and arrive at Salem by 11 AM. Retarding. Leave
Salem every Wednesday by 1 P M, and arrive at
Gloitcefler by 6 P M.
Note. Should this mail be carried ir) a stage it Is
to be carried as often as the stage runs, the hours
desired to be slated in the proposals.
18. From Salem to Marblehcad three times a
week. Leave Salem every Monday, Wednesday,
and Friday immediately after the rrival of the
mail from Boston, and deliver it at Marbleheid in
one hoar and a half, l«ave Marbkhead in one
tour and a half and rtturn to Salem in two hours.
19 From Boston by Andover, Jl.»7erhill and
Che to Concord ih New Hamp&irc once a
week.
Leave Concord every Monday by 6 A M, auivc
at Chcftcr by 2 P M, and arriv. at Boflfon on
Tuesday by 4 PM. Rdnning. Leave Bd?-gD every
Friday by 9 A M,arrive at Che'eron Saturday by
11 A M, and arrive at Concord on Saturday by 6
PM.
20. From Boston by Concord, Lancaster, I.eo
minfter and AlhKurnh irn to Marlborough, Kcene
and Walpole in New Hampshire.
Leave Bollon every Wadnefday and Saturday by
6 AM, and arrive at Leominller by 7 P M.
Leave Leominller evsry Thursday bpr 6 A M,
arrive atKeene by 9 PM, & at Walpole onFriday by
10 A M Returning. Leave W-dlpole jvery Satur
day or Sunday by 5 A M, arrive at Keene by 9
AM, and at Leominller in the evening. Leave
[ Leominller every Monday and Thursday by 6
! a u and arrive at Boston by 6 P m.
I zi. From Bolton by Quinccy, Hingham, Hano
ver, Plymouth, Sandwich, Barnftable, Yarmouth,
Dennis, Harwich and Chatham to Truro once a
week.
Leave Boston every Thursday by 3 P M, arrive
at Sandwich on Friday by 6 t m, and at Truro the
next Sunday by 6 a Returning. Leave lruro
every Monday by 8 a m, arrive at Sandwich on
Tuesday by 7 v M, and at Boston on l hurlxiay by
IO A M.
IT,. From Sandwich by Falmouth and Holmes
Hole to Edgartown once a week
Leave Sandwich every Saturday by 1 r m, and
arrive at Edgarton on Monday by 11 a m. Return
ing. Leave Edgarton »n Monday by 1 ? m, and
arrive at Sandwich on Tuesday by noon.
43. From Boston by Sharon, Mansfield, Norton
and Taunton to Newport once a week.
Leave Boston evtry Monday by 6 a m, and ar
rive at Newport by 6 r m, 011 Tuesday. Returning.
Leave Newport every Wednesday by 8 am, and
arrive at Boston on I hurfday by 6pm.
24. From Boston by Chariefton, Medford.Wo
burn, Billerica, Chelmsford and Tyngboroegh to
amhcrft once a week.
Leave Boston every Thursday by. 10 a m, and
arrive at Amberft the next Saturday noon. Re
turning. Leave Amherft every Monday nocn, and
arrive at Boston on Wednesday by 3 p m
-25. From Boston by Rayuham, Bridgewater,
Randolph and Taunton to New Bedford.
Frcm May Ito N»vem6er 1. Leave Boston every
Monday, wednesday and Friday at 10 p m, arrive at
Taunton the next day by 11 a m, and at New Bed
ford by 3 p m. Returning. Leave New Bedford
ever) Sunday, Tuesday and Thursday by 10 r m,
arrive at Taunton th-_ next day by u a m, and at
Boston by 8 p m
From November Ito way 1. Leave Boston eve
ry wednesday and Friday at 9„a k,arrive at Taun
ton by 8 P m, and at New Bedford on Thursday &
Saturday by 8 p M. Returning. Leave New
Bedford every Monday and wedHefday by 9 a m.
arrive at Trunton by 8 r m, and at Boston on
Tuesday and Thursday by 7 p m.
26. From New Bedford to Nantucket, twice a
week from November Ito May I. Leave New
Bedford every Friday and Monday by 6 a m, ar
rive at Nantucket in the evening. Leave Nantuc
ket every Saturday and Tuesday by 10 a m, and
arrive at New Bedford in the evcniTig.
From May Ito November 1. Leave New Bed
ford every Monday, wednesday and Friday by 10
a m, and arrive at Nantucket in the evening. Re
turning. Leave Nantucket every Tue day, Thurs
day and Saturday at 8 a m, and arrive at New Bed
ford in the evening, winds and tide permitting.
27. From Taunton by Dighton and Semerletto
warren once a week.
I.cave Taunton every wcijnefJay by 5 a m, and
arrive at warren by 10 a m. Leave warren by 1
f m, and arrive at Taunton by 6 r m.
28. From Boston by Dedham, providence, plain
field, Norwich, New London, Saybrook, Killing
worth, Guilford and New Haven to New York
t.'irce times a week.
From May 1 to November I. Leave Boston eve.
ry Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday by 10 a m,
arrive at rrovidejice by 6 r m, arrive at Norwich
OH wednesday, Friday and Monday by noon, at
New London by 3 r m, arrive at New Haven on
Thqrfday, Saturday and Tuesday by noon, at Stan
ford by 9 p m, and at New York on Friday, Mon
, day and wednesday by noon. Returning. Leaye
New York every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday
by 10 a m, arrive at New Haven on wednesday,
Friday and Monday by 2 r m, at Norwich on
Thursday, Saturday and Tuesday by noon, at pro
vidence by 8 pm, and at Boston oa Friday, Mon
day and wednesday by 1 r m.
, November Ito May I. Leave Boston every
Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday by 9 a M, ar
rive at providence the next days ty 9 a m, at New
1 London every Thursday, Saturday and Tues
day by noon, at New Haven on Friday, Monday
and wednesday by 3 p M, at Stratford by S p m,
and arrive at New York on Monday, wednesday
and Friday by II am. Returning. Leave New
York every Saturday, Tuesday and Thursday by 11
a m, arrive at Stratford the next days by 8 p m, at
New Haven on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday
by 9 a m, at New London on wednesday, Friday
and MOnday by 3 r m, at providence, Thursday,
Saturday and Tuesday by 4 p m, at Boston on Fri
day, Monday and wednesday by 3 p m.
29. From Boston by Dedham, Mendon, pomfret
and Tollarid to Hartford ance a week.
Leave Boston every Thursday by 7 a m , arrive
at Hartford the next Saturday by 6p m. Return
ing. Leave Hartford every Monday by 8 A M,
and arrive at Boston on wednesday by 5 p m.
30. From New Bedford to Newport once a
week.
Leave New Bedford every Thursday by 6 a m,
and arrive at Newport by 4p m. Leave Newport
every Friday by 8 am, and arrive at New Bedfori
by 5 p m.
31. From woacjfter by Rutland, r;ter{ham and
Northfield to Brat'.leborough once a week.
Leave worcester every l uefday by I m. ar.d
arrive at Brattleborongh on wednesday by 6 r m.
Returning. Leave Brattleborough every Thurs
day by 6 a m, and arrive at worcester on Friday
noon.
32. From Brsokfield by Belchertown, North
ampton, worthington,pittsiield and New Lebanon
to Albany
Leave Brookficld every Tuesday and Friday by
9a m, arrive at Northampton by fr m. Leave
Northampton every wednesday and Saturday at 5
a m, arrive at pittsfield by I P M, and at Albany
on Thursday and Monday by 7 p m. Returniug.
1 Lta\e Albany every wednesday and Saturday at 5
am, arrive at pittsfield by .5 r m, at Northamp
ton on Thursday and Monday by 7 r m, and ar
rive at Brookficld onFriday and Tuesday by 4
I pM.
33. From Springfield by Wellfield and Stock
bridge to Kinderhook once a week.
May I to November 1. Leave Springfield eve
ry Tuesday by 3 p M, arrive at Kinderheok on
, Thursday by 6P M. Returning. Leave Kinder
: hook every Friday by 9 a m, arrive at Stock
bridge fey 3f m. Leave Stockbridge on Monday
, by 6 /> m, and arrive at Springfield by 7 m,
November I to May I. Leave Springfield every
I wednesday at 6a m, and arrive atKinderiiook on
1 hurfday by 2p m. Returning. Leave Kinder
hook on Thursday by 4 r m, arrive at Stockbridge
, on Friday nocn. Leave Stockbridge every Tuef
: day at 6a m, aHd arrive at Springfi .ld by 7r m.
34. From Sufiirld by Weft Spiinglield, Northamp
ton, Greenfield, Bialtleboioujm, Weftminller, Wal
i pole, Charleftown and Windloi 10 Hanover twice a
, week.
Leave Suffield every Tuefdsy and Friilay at am,
t arrive at Northampton by 1 rM, at Walpoleon Wed
nesday and Saturday by tM, at Windsor on Mon
' day and Thursday by e rm, and at Hanover by 7 r
M Returning. Leave Hanover every Tuesday and
Friday by 6a m, arrive at Windfoi by I P.vi, at Wal
pole on Wednesday and Saturday by 7 r m, and at
NorthnmpiononThurfdayand Wonda) by iu«aii, and
at Sufikla by 7 1 M.
1 35. From Hanover by Orford and Haverhill, to
Kewbuty nncea week.
Leave Hanover every Wednesday by 6 a m, arrive
i- at Haverhill by 4 fit, and at Newbury by 5 p m
Reluming. Leave Newbury every Ti»u;May by 6 a
m, arrive at Haverhill by 8a u, aud ai **anovcr by i
6 r M.
y. RMOKT.
36. From Windlor, by Royalfton, Randolph, Wil
liarnftcn and Montpeliei to Bu«lingion onct in two 1
weeks.
Leave Windsor every other Thuifday by 6 am,
and arrive at Burlingtonthe next Saturday fey 6 p m.
Returning. Leave Burlington every other Monday
by 6 am, aad arrive at Windlor 011 Wednesday by 6
1 M
37. From Windsor to Ru'landorcea week.
Leave Rutland every Monday by 7 a •/. and arrive
at Windsor or. TucCday by. 6 r m. Returning.
Leave Windsor every Wedncfday bv 6 a M, and u\r
rive at Rutland onTnurlday by 6 m.
38. From Burlington by Vcrg/cnnes and Middle
bury to itutland once a week.
Leave Burlington every Tf urfday by 8 am, 2nd
arrive at Rutland on Saturday by 6f m. Returning.
Leave Rutland cvtry Monday by 8 a M.and arrive at
I Burlington on Wednesday noon.
39. From Rutland' by Bennington,
Lanfingburg and Troy to Albany.
Leaye Rutland every Monday at $ a iyt,and arrive
at Albany the next Wednesday by 6p m. Return
ing. Leave Albany every Thursday by 8a m, and
arrive at Bennington by 7 p Leave bennington
on Friday by 8 a m, and arrive at Rutland on Sator
tlay by 7 p m-
RIVDE-tSLAXD.
40. From Providence by Brillol and Warrep to
Newport.
Leave Providence every Monday, Wednesday and
Friday by 7 a m. and anive at Newport the iame
day® bv £p m. Returning. Leave Newport every
Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday by 8 am, and ar
rive at Providence by pm.
41. From Providence by East Greenwich, New
pore, South Kingston, Wellerly and Sconington Point
to New London once a week.
Leave Providence »very Tuesday by 8 a w, and
arrive at Newport by 6 pm, leave Newport every
Wednesday by 6 a m, and arrive at New London on
Thursday by noon. Returning. Leave New Lon
don on Thui fday by 3 r m, and arrive a: Newport on
Friday by 6 r m, leave Newport on Monday by 7 a
m, and arrive at Providence by 5 r m.
CONNECTICUT.
42. From Hartford by Windham to Norwich
once a week.
Leave Hartford every Tuesday by 6 a M,and ar
rive at Norwich by 7p m Returning. Leave Nor
wich every Monday by 6 a m, and arrive at Hartford
by 7 p m.
43. From Hartford by Middlctown, Modus Land
ing and Colchester to New-London, once a week.
Leave Hartford every Tuesday at 1 p m, and arrive
at New London on Wedncfday by 7p m. Return
ing. Leave New London every Thursday by 11 a
m, and arrive at Hartford on Friday by 7 p m.
44. From Hartford by New Hartford, Canaaa,
Sheffield and Hillfdale to Hudson once a week
Leave Hartford eveiy Monday at 2 p m, and arrive
at Hudson on Wedncfday by u am. Returning.
Leave Hudson every Wednesday at 2 p m, and arrive
at Hartford on Friday by 1» am.
45. From Hartfoid by Litchfield, New Milford,
Newtown, Datibury and Ridgefield to New York
once a week.
Leave Hartford every Monday by 10 a m, arrive at
Litchfi Id by 7 p m, at New Milford on Tuesday by
ham, and at New York on Thursday by 8 am.
Returnrng. Leave New York every Thursday by 4
p m, arrive at New Milford on Saturday noon, at
Litchfield by 7 p m, and at Hartford on Monday by
8 a m.
46. From New-Haven by Derby, Southbury,
Woodbury, Bethlem, Litchfield and Gofhen, to Ca
naan, once a week.
Leave Canaan every Monday noon, arrive at Litch
field by 7 p M, and at New Haven on Wednesday by
10 am. Leave New Haven every Wednesday by 2
p m, arrive at Litchfield on Thursday noon, and at
Canaan by 7 p m.
47 From New York by White Plains, Bedford,
Frcdericktown, Dover, Sharon, Sheffield, Great
Barrington, Stockbridge, Pittsfield and Williamfton
to Bennington
Leave New York every Monday, Wednesday and
Friday at 5 A M, the next Wednesday, Friday and
Monday at 6 PM. Returning. Leave Bennington
every Thursday, Saturday and Tuesday by 5 AM,
and arrive at New V ork the next Saturday, Tuesday
and Thursday by 6 P M.
If the stages run but once a week on this routc"the
mail isto leave New York every Monday at 5
arrive at Bennington on Wednesday by 6 P M. Leave
Bennington on Thursday by 5 AM, and arrive at
New York on Saturday by 6 P M.
48. titom fclew York by Yonkers, Peckfkill, Fifti
kill, Poughkeepfie, Rhinebeck, Redhook, Clermont,
Hudson, Claverac and Kinderhook to Albany three
times a week.
Leave New York every Monday Wednesday and
Friday by 2 P M, arrive at Tarrytown by 8 P M.
Leave Tarrytown every Tuesday, Thursday and Sa
turday at 5 A M, arrive at Poughkeepfie by 7 P M.
Leave Poughkeepfie Wednesday, Friday and Sunday
by 5A M, arrive at Kinderhook by 7P M. Leave
Kinderhook every Thursday, Saturday and Monday,
at 5'A M, and arrive at Albany by 8A M. Return
ing. Leave Albany Thursday, Saturday and Mon
day by 3 P M, arrive at Kind-rrhook by 7 P M.
Leave Kinderhook Friday, Sunday and Tuesday, at
sam, arrive at Poughkeepfie by 7 p m> Leave
Poughkeepfie Saturday, Monday and Wednesday, at
sam, arrive at Tarrytown by 7p m. L :ave Tarry
town every Snnday, Tuesday and Thursday, at £ a
m, arrive at New Vork at 11 a m.
49. From Albany by Troy end Lanfingburgh, to
Salem, once a week.
Leave Albany every Tuesday at 8 A m, arrive at
Laniingbnrgh by 10 a m, and at Salem by 4 p m. Re
turning. Leave Salem every Monday, by 8a m, and
arrive at Albany by 5 p m.
50. From Salem by Granville, Fairhaven, Ver
gennes, Bason-Harbour, Wtllfboro', Peru and Pitts
burgh, to Champlain-town, once in two weeks,
Leave Salem every other Wednesday 5 AM, and
arrive at Plattfburgh the next Sunday by 5p m. Re
turning. Leave Plattfburgb every other Monday at 8
a m, and arrive at Salem the next Friday by 4 p m.
51. From Lanfingburgh by I Waterford, Stillwater,
Fort Edward, Whitehall landing and Fairhaven, to
Rutland, in Vermout.
Leave Lanfingburgh every Thursday by noon, and
arrive at Rutland the next Saturday by 6 p m. Re
turning. Leave Rutland every Monday by noon,
and arrive at Lanfingburgh on Thursday 4>y 10 a m.
52. From Albany by Scheueflady, Tripes Hill,
Conajoharry* German Flatts, Od Fort Schuyler an,l
Whitestown to Rome. The times dejircd tobcjlatcd in
the proposals,
53. From Schenettady by Bailtown Springs ar.d
Glenlb idge to Sardy Hill once a week.
Leave Schenectady every T*fc(day by 6 a m. and
arrive at Sandy Hill by 4p m. Leave Sandy Hill on
Wednesday by 6 am, and arrive at Scheneftady by
4 PM.
54 From Tripefhill to Johnfton once a week.
Leave Tripcfhill in one hour after the mail arrives
from Albany 011 Tuesday, arrive at Johnfton in two
hours, (lay at Johnfton two hours, and return to
Tripefbillin two hrfura.
55. From Conajoharry by Cherry Valley to Coo
pcrltown twice a week.
Leave Conajoharry every Wednesday and Saturday
at 6 am, and arrive at Cooperftown by 2 p m.
Leave Cooperftown every Tuesday and Friday by 10
a m, andarrive at Conajoharry by 6 e m.
56. From Cooperftown by Butternuts and Oxford
to Union once in two weeks.
Leave Union every other Monday by 10 a m, and
arrive at Cooperflown on Wedncfday by 5p m. Re
turning. Leave Cooperftown every other Thursday
by 6 a m, and arrive at Union on Saturday by 3 PM.
57. From Old Fort Schuyier by Cincinnati!) to
Oxioid Academy once in two weeks.
Leave Old Fort Schuyler every other Thursday by
6 am, and arrive at Oxford on Friday noon. Re
turning. Leave Oxlord every other Friday by 2 pm,
4nd arrive at Old Fort Schuyler on Satuiday by 7
p M
58. From Rome by to Rotterdam once
in two weeks.
Leave Rome every other Thurfdry by "10 a m, and
arrive at Rotterdam by 6 rm. Returning Leave
Rotterdam every other Friday by 9 a m, and arrive
ai Rome by 6 P M.
<9. From Rome bv Ont:da, Onondaigua, Scipio
and Geneva to Kaoandaigua once a week;
or M
Leave Rome every Thursday by 10 AM, and ar- s
rive at Kanandaigua the ucx t Monday by 6AM ]
Leave Kanandaigua every Monday by 10 A M, and
arrive z\ Rome the next Thurlday by 8 A M.
60. From Kanandaigua by Hartford to Niagara
once in two weeks.
Leave Kanandaitf-ta every other Monday by to A
M, and arrive at Niagara the next Wcdnelday by 7 P
M. Returning. Leave Niagara every other Friday
by 6 A M, and arrive at Kanandaigua the next Moo
day by 6 A M.
61. From Rhinebeck l>y Kingflon,
WardlbiUige, Gofhen, Hamburg, Ncwiomi, Hack
etftown and Moifiltown to Newaik, 10 return from
Morriltown by Booueton, Rockaway ana iparta 10
New town once a week.
Leaye'Rhinebeck eveiv Friday by 5 A M, arrive at
Gofhen on Saturday at 7 A M, at Newtown by 7 P
M, at Hacktiftown and Momliown on Sunday, ana
at Newark on Monday by io AM. Re»urning.
Leave Newark every Monday by 2 P M, anue at
booneton and Rockaway on *l'urfday,at Newtown by
7 PM, at Gofhen un Wedncfday ai 5 PM, and at
Rhinebeck o<» Thuifday by 9 P M.
62. Fiom New YOIH by HackenCack, Pararnus,
New Antrim and Chester to Gofhen once a week.
Leave New York every Friday at 7 AM, and ar
rive at Go(he.n on Saturday by 6 P M. Returning.
Leave Gofhen every Tuelday ai 6 A M, and aiiive at
New Yorkon Wednesday by 6 i'
63. From Filhkiil by Newbuig and New Windlor
to Gofhen once a week.
Leave Fifhkill every Wednesday by 7 AM, and
arrive at Gofnen by 5 PM. 1 eave Gofhen every
Tuesday at 7 A and arrive at Filhkiil by 5P M.
64. From New'Ycrk by Jamaica, Hu«angu>n,
Smkhtown, Brookhavcn, Suffolk, Southampton &
Biidgehampton to Sagharbour once a week.
Leave New fork every Thursday at 10 A M, and
arrive at Sagharbour the next Saturday by 6 P M.
Leave Sagharbour every Monday at 8 AM, and ar
rive at New York on Wednesday by 5 P M.
NLIV-JERSLY.
65. From Woodbridjje to Amboy three times a
week.
Leave Wood bridge every Monday, Wedncfday &
Friday at 8 A M, and arrive at Amboy by 9 A M.
Leave Amboy at noon and arrive at Woodbridge by
1 P M.
66 From Trenton by Allentown, Monmouth
court-house, Shre*fbury, Middlctown Point, Spoil
wood, New Brunfwick,Soraerlei, New Geruiamon,
Pitt lion and Flemingion to Trenton once a week.
Leave Trentou every Tuesday by 10 A M, and re
turn to Trenton the next Tuesday by 6 A M.
67. From Philadelphia by iaunion and Aifion to
Tuckerton once in two weeks.
Leave Philadelphia every other Wednesday by 3
P M, arrive at Tuckerion on Thurlday by 6 P M. \
Leave Tuckerton every other Tuesday by 6 .-t M, and I
arrive at Philadelphia on Wednesday by 9 v M
68. From Philadelphia by Woodbury, Swcdefbo
rough, Woodftown and Salem to Bridgetown once a i
week.
Leave Philadelphia every Wednesday afternoon by
3%' clock, and arrive at Bridgetown on Friday by 2
PM. Leave Bridgetownoll Saturday at 8A M, and
arrive at Philadelphia 011 Wednesday atg A M.
69* From Philadelphia by Jenkiniowij, Piumftead '
and Pipers by Bethlehem to Eafton once a week.
Leave Philadelphia every Wednesday by lo A M,
and arrive at Eaftoi* on Thurlday by 2P M. Return
ing. Leave Eafton every Monday at 9A M, andar
rive at Philadelphia on Tuesday by 3 P M.
70. Frcm Plumftead by Pipers and Alexandria to
Pittfton once a week.
Leave Plumftead every Thursday by 5 AM, arrive
at Pittfton by it A M. Leave Pwtfton by x P M,
and arrive at Plumftead by 7 P M.
71. From Eafton to Wilkefbarre once a week.
Leave Eafton every Thursday by 3 P M, and arrive
at Wiikelbarre on Saturday noon. Returning. Leave
Wiikcfbarrre every Tuesday noon, and arrive at Ea
fton every Thursday by noon.
72. From Philadelphia by Norriftown, Trap,
Pottfgrove, Reading, Lebanon and Harrifburg to
darlifle.
Odtober 15 to April 15. Leave Philadelphia every
Tuesday and Thursday at sunset, arrive at Reading
everyThurlday N and Saturday at 4 PM Leave Read
ing every Friday at 8 AM, arrive at Carlisle every
Sunday by it AM. Returning Leave Carhfl? eve
ry Sunday by 2 P M, arrive at Reading on Tuesday
by 4 P M, leave Reading every Wcdnelday aud
Monday by 8 A M, and arrive at Philadelphia on
Thursday and Tuesday by 4 P M.
April 15, to Oftober 15. Leave Philadelphia eve
ry Wedncfday and Fiiday at 8 A M, arrive at Read
ing on Thurlday and Saturday by 11 AM. Leave
Reading every Thursday noon, and arrive at Carlisle
the next Satuiday by 11 A M. Returning. Leave
Carlisle every Monday noon, arrive at Reading on
Tuesday bv 7P M. Leave Reading every Wednes
day and Monday at 8 AM, and arrive at Philadel
phia on Thursday and Tuefdny by 9 A M
73. From Reading by Hamburg. Sunbury and
Northumberland to Louifburgonce a week.
Leave Reading every Eriday at 6 A M, and arrive
at Louifburg on Monday by 10 A M- Returning-
Leave Louifburg every Tuelday noon ( and arrive at
Reading on Thursday by 4 PM.
, 74. From Harrifburg by Peter (burg, Millerftown,
Thoinpfontown, Mifflinrown, Louiftown, Hunting
don, Alexandria, Centre Furnace, Belie Fount, Milel
burg, Aoronfburg, Miffli burg, Louilburg, Northum
berland, Sunbury aud Halifax to Harriiburg once in
two weeks.
Leave Harrifburg every Saturday by 6 A M, wait
ing at each polt oifice which shall be cftablifhed on
the route, two hours, and return again to Harrifburg'
the next Monday by 8 A M,
1 75, From Soir.erfet by Connellfville to Union once
a week.
Leave Pittfburg every Friday noon and arrive at
Wheeling on Saturday hy noon. Returning. Leave
Wheeling every ihuifday by 9 A M, and arrive at
Pittfburg on Saturday by 10 A M.
75 Leave Somerfetevery Thursday SA. M arrive
at Union 4P. M. Leave Union everji Friday by
8 A. M and arrive atSomerfetbY 7 P. M.
76. From Pittfburg by Cannonfburg, Wafhingto/i
and Weft Liberty to Wheeling once a-week.
77. From Prcfton by Washington to Cincinnati
once a week.
Leave Preston every Friday at noon, arrive atWafh
ington bv 8 PM, and at Cincinnati the next Monday
noon. Returning. Leave Cincinnati every Tuesday
at 6A M, and arrive at Wafhingtoa on Wednesday
by 5 P-M• Leave Washington at 9P M, and arrive
at Preston on Friday by 1^
KENTUCKY.
7-8. From Washington by Spiingfield, Bourbon,
Lexington, Frankfort and Harrodiburg to Danville
once a week,
Leave Washington every Saturday fcy 8 A M, and
arrive at Danville the next Monday by 5 PM. Re
turning. Leave Danville every Tucfdjy by 8 AM,
and arrive at Lexington on Wednesday noon, and at
Wafhingt' n on Thursday by 6 P M.
79. From Dar.vil]« to by Beardftown
onee in two, week*.
Leave Danville every other Tuesday by noon, ar
rive at Louisville the next Thuifday by 3 PM.
1 Returning. Leave Luuifvllle every other Friday by
• 6 AM, and arrive at Danville on Samrday by-6 PM.
80 From Danville by Stamford and Cumberland
Gap to Moffat's store in TennefTee once a week.
Leave Danville every Monday at 2 P M, and arrive
at Moffat's store the next Thursday bv 6 PM. Leave
Moffai's (lore every Friday by 6 A M, and arrive at
Danville on Monday by 10 A M,
TENNESSEE.
81. From Knox* il!e by South Weft Point and
Fort Blount and Craig Fort to Nafhviltc once in two
weeks-
Leave Knoxvilie every other Tuesday by 8 AM,
arid arrive at Nsfhville the next Monday by .9 A M.
Returning. Leave Nashville.every other Monday by
3 P M, and ai rive at Knoxville the next Saturday bv
8 PM.
MARYLAND AND VIRGINIA.
82. From Baltimore by Ellieot's Lower Mills,
' Montgomery Court House, Charlcfburg, Leefburg,
Middleburgand Warientou toCulpeper, c. u. oncea
week.
Leave Baltimore every Monday noon, arrive a:
Leefburg on Tuesday evening, and at Culpcpcr Court
! Iloufe the next Thursday noon. Returning. Leave
! Culpcper Ccurt House every Friday noon and ariive
! at Baltimore the next Monday by 9 A M,
j 83. From Allen's Fresh by Ludlow's Ferry to Port
' j Conway in Virginia once in tv of weeks,
Leave Al!en'i Frclhevery other Moifday by $ AM,
and arrive at P.rt Conway by 6P M. Returning.
Leave Port Conway every other Tuelday by 8 AM,
and arrive at Allen's Freih by 7 P M.
84. From Morjpoto*n by Petty John to to Claikf..
bury once in two weeks.
Leave Morgan town every other Monday by 5 A
M, and arrive at Chrkiburgby 5 P fce'u-oing.
Leave Clarksburg every other Tucfday by 8 A M.and
arrive at by 8 P M
85. From Toddi to King and Queen, c. h. orKe a
week.
Leave Toddi every Thursday by 9 A M, arrive at
King and Que en by 11 AM. Leave King and Queen
rat 1 PM, and -rnve at Toddi by 6 P M.
86. From Halifax by Danville to Cal'wcU couri
houie once in two weeks.
Leave HaliUx couri-hcufe every other Tuesday by
•2 P M, arrive at Cafweli court-hopfe ihe next WeC
nefday by 6P M. Reluming. Leave Cafweli C. H.
every other Thursday bv 6A M, and arrive at Halifax
eourt-houfc on Friday by noon.
87. From Peterfburgh by Suffer court house
and Southampton.court houfc to South Quay, onc«
in two weeks.
Leave ijeterjburg every other Wcdnefday by 6
A M and arrive at South Qgay on Thursday by 6
1* M- Returning. Leave houiJi Quay every other
Monday by 6AM and arrive at Pcterfburg on
Tuesday by 3 P IVT.
KCRTH-UROLINA, &c
88. From Newbern to Beauiort and SwiTfboro'
once in two weeks, the mailt© go alternately.
Leave Newbern every other Thursday by 6 A
M, remain at each of tlie offices two hours, and
return to Newbern the next . ,
89. From Wilmington by Georgetown to Char*
lefton, once a week.
Leave Wilmington every Monday by 6AM
ana-arrive at Charleiton the next 'I hurictay by 10
AM. Leave Charleston every Thursday by 3 P
M and arrive at Wilmington the next Sunday by
5 P M.
90 From Norfolk by Kcmpfville, Great Bridge
and North Weft River Bridge to Jonefbor©*, once
in two Aveeks
Leave Norfolk every other Wcdnefday at 9 A
M and arrive at Jonefboro* on Thursday by 7 PM.
Returning. Leave Jonelboro* every other Monday
by 10 A M and arrive at Norfolk on Tuesday by 6
P M.
91 From North Weft River Bridge by New Le
banon to Elizabeth city, once in two weeks.
Leave North Weil River Bridge every ether
Friday by 6 A M add arrive at Elizabeth city by
6 PM. Leave Elizabeth city ev.ry other Satur
day by 6 A M, and arrive at N. W. river bridge
by 6 p M.
92. From Salem, N. C. by Bethania, Flower-
Gap Grayfoncourt-houfe and
court-house once in two weeks.
Leave Salem every other Saturday by 6 A M,
and arrive at Wythe c. h. the next Mon. p M.
Leave Wythe'court hoefe every other Tuesday by
9 A. M, and arrive at Salem the next Thursday by
6 P M.
93. From Murfrecfboro' by South Quay toSuffolk
once a week.
From Murfreclboro* every Wcdnefday by6j4M t
arrive at Suffolk by 6P M. Returning. Leave Suf
folk every Tuesday by 6 A M, and arrive at Murfice>*
boro* by 6 PM.
94 From Fayetteville to Pittlburg once in two
weeKs.
Leave every other Wcdnefday hy 6 A
M, aud arrive at Piitfburg on Thursday
Leave other fhurfdav by * PM, and ar
rive at Favetteville on Friday by 6 P M.
GEORGIA AND SOU Tk-CAROLJNA.
95. From Vu by Robinson at the White
Ponds and Gillets mills to Coofahatchy, once a
week.
Leave Augufla every Tuesday by 8 A M and ar
rive at Ceofahatchy on Wcdnefday by 7 P M. Re
cui ning. Leave Coofahatchy every Sunday at 6 A
M and arrive at Augufla on Monday by 5 P M.
96. From Gworgeto# n to Rocky Landing in
Georgia, once in two weeks.
Leave Georgetown every other Morday at 6 A
M, and arrive at Rocky Landing at 5P M. Re
turning. Leave Rocky Landing every other Tues
day by 6 A M and arrive at Georgetown by 6 PM,
Note I. The Pojl Mafer General may alter the t'tnes
of arrival and departure at any time duriug the continu inee
of the contrasts, he p revivify fipulating an adequate cam
penfation fer any extra expense that may be occajioned there
by.
Note 2. Half an hour ft Jll be allowed Jar o'jenin <*
and clufmgthe Mail at all ojfucs where no particular time
is spec ifud.
Note 3. For every hour s delay (unavoidable accidents
exceptedJ in arriving after the times preferibed in an y con
trad, the Contractor fhalt JorJeit one dollar, and if i'.ic de
lay continue until the departure of any depending Mail*
whereby the Mails defined for such depending Maili hfc
a tripy an additional jorjcitunc of five doilars shall be
incurred*
Note 4. Neivfpapers as well ae Letters are to he sent
l n the Mails ; and if any person making proposals d fires
o carry newspapers other than tbofe conveyed in the mail 9
for his own emolument, be mufl fate in bis proposals for
1 what sum be will carry it with that emolument and for
what sum witbant that tmolumcnt.
i\ ote 5 Sbontd any person making proposals iefr * art
1 alteration of the times of Arrival and departure above fpe
cifieJ, he mufi flute in bis proposals the alterations defred,
an i the difference they will make in the terms of bii
trafl.
Note 6. Ferfons making proposals are defrei to fats
their prices by the year. '/hofe who contract wi'J reeelve
their pay quarterly, in the months of Aprils
July and Qflober.
Note 7. The contrails are to he in operation on the frtl
day of Oftobcr next, and continue for four years, until
the frit of Oftober jßoi—excepting contrails for the
routes N„. %, 9, 10, 3T, 36, JO, 51, 57, 60, 7 j,
76, 77, 80, 81, 83, 84. 87, 90, 91, 92, 96
■which art to continue Jot two years until tbljl of Qcltber
1799.
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Pojl Majler General.
General Poft-Office, Philadelphia,}
May 27th, 1797. j
June 1. 2awtj3i
St. Andrew's Society.
AT a quarttrly meeting of the St. Andrew's
Society, held at the Golden Sw ao , lad evcnii!<r,
the following gentlemen wer« ulianimoufly elected
members thereof:
I.ord Henry Stewart,
1 be Honorable Thomas M l Doialil t
Mr. William Alexander,
Cast. Duncan Rose,
Mr. James Thorbur,
Mr. James Stuart, jun.
Mr. William Gardner,
Air. Samuel Campbell, of N. T.
The treasurer, Mr. Shield, prefciited to t!.«
meeting the ilatcmer.t ol th; funds of the society |
whereupon, it was
Resolved, that he be requeued to continue hi*
Crenuous eicrtions to collect in the arrears due to
the | cor fund, and to make report o» hit fuccefj
thereiu at the next quarterly meeting.
Richard Lake, Secretary.
June I. ,p
To be disposed of,
The time of a black Woman,
WHO ha* five years and eight mouths to ierre
—She i. lately from the country, is healthy
and flrnng, a food washer and ironer, and cap*,
ble of doing all the work of a large family. The
present proprietor's motive for pariing with her,
is such ;s cannot be deemed an objcdi.on by those
persons who may wish to purchale her. Enquire
t at the offce of the Gazette ef the United S;utc»,
No. 119, Chcinut-ftreu.
June l