of the iamtets & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1466.]
For London,
th * ,h,?
WILLIAM PENN,
JjmeS 'JosIAH, Majler.
WILL fail with all convenient speed. For
freight or paflage applr to
JtJe Robert Wain.
The owners of Goods in the (tip William
Penn, arerequefled to fend their permits on board
asfcon a.i poflible.
> May 19 §
—— ■ - 1 *
Charter,
Jg|g|w /Erial,
y John TARt\s, Majler,
NOW lying it Albertfon's w}iarf, South
wark—burthen 3300 barrels, in compleft
order to take in a cargo.
For terms apply to
Gurncy llf Smith.
May 15 . $
United States, 1 _
Pennsylvania Dijlriil,
Notice is hereby given,
TH AT in pursuance ol a writ to me directed
from the honorable Richard Peters, Esq.
Judge of theTJiftrift Court of the t'nited States
in and for the Pennsylvania Diftrifl. will be ei
pofed to sale at the merchants' coffeerhoufe in this
city, on the 27th day of this instant, May, at 12
o'clock at noon,
The Schooner or Vejfcl called
THE ® ETSEY »
With all and lingular her tac
kel, apparel and furniture (whereof an inventory
n»y be seen at my office) the fame having been
libelled and condemned in the said Dif-riA
Court, for the payment of mariner's wages, &c.
• William Nichols, Marjhal.
marshal's ornc£,7
17th May, 1797. / eol7>l
For Madeira,
Edward,
James Hid ham, Majler.
WILL ftiil in about Eight days, having
three-fourths of her cargo engaged. For
freight or paflage, apply to the captain on
board, at Stamper's wharf, or the Subscriber.
John Donnaldfon.
May it. sßt
N. B. The Edward is intended to return dr
refl to this port, and will take in freight at
Madeira.
For sale,
IE-3CSET**' 7"be si/l failing Schooner
White-oak frame—built in the
state of Virginia in the ye»r 1796 —57 feet 3
inches keel, 17 feet 10 inches beam, 8 feet 3
inches hokl—burthen 90 tons—is faifl to carry
6®o barrels—completely fitted and ready to re
ceivea cargo : For further particulars enquire of
Rpfs and Simfon, No. 121, South Front-street.
April 3 $
For St. Croix,
To fail in eight days,
Twins,
Matthew Keelir, Master,
For paffaee apply to
James Tard,
on Walnut-street wharf.
May 6. §
For Baltimore,
l-i». Harriot,
S adkiS&iF' THOMAS HfOaßi, Commander;
A fine faft failing ship, and is expefted to fail the
2lft inft. Freight will be taken very low, if im
mediately applied for, to the captain on board at
Wilkox's wharf, or to
Peter Kuhn.
N. B. The consignees of good* on board the a?
bove ship from Hambury, will please to be cxper
ditious in delivering their permit!, aa she is now
discharging.
May 17.
TO BE SOLD,
And pofTeflion giv«n immediately,
A Lot of Land;
SITUATED in Mount-Holly, in the ? cousty
of Burlington, in New-Jersey, lately occu
pied by Francis Bhllus, Efi}uire, upon which ar»
an excellent brick house, two stories high, witlj
four convenient rooms op each floor, also a goo<j
liable, carriage house and other buildings. The
iituation is valuablr for business of any kind ? an4
at least equal to ar.y other in the tow».
The terms of payment will be made easy to
thepurchaftr. Apply to William Roffell, Esq.
uire, John Perry, or Richard Coxe, mescbants,
in Mount-Holly, or to the Subscriber, in the city
of Burlington.
JOSEPH M'ILVAINE.
Burlington, 27th April May s—faw5 —faw
TO BE SOLD,
The time of a hlely NEGRO BOT,
Thirte n years of age, and has about fourteen
years to serve. Enquire at the offict of this ga
zette.
April 17. 5
Jttjl Imported
IN the ship Woodrop Sims, Capt. Hodgfon,
from Canton, and for sale by the Subscrib
er, at Mrs. Kinfey's, corner of Second and
sine-street,
Hyson ")
Hyson Sliin (Toss all frefh and of
Young Hyson ar.d C excellent quality.
Gunpowder J
A Il'o,
A few Nankeens.
c.haight.
April 17 dtf
PHILADELPHIA: SATURDAY EVENING, MAT 20, 1797.
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DRY GOODS.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter BenfoH.
f Forenoon—Edward Fox, No. j6,
Mcndn,' south Front-street,
Afternoon—Footman k Co. No. 6j
South Front-street.
C Forenoon—John Connelly, Ofd City
er ri J Auflion, No. 73 south l'ront-ftreet.
1 Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
C 183 High-street.
S A tfh° "
IMj ! fre*.
J i Afternoon—John Con.neUy.
r • j \ Forenoon—William Shannon.
? Afternoon—John Connelly.
Valuable Lands, Mills,
&c. in Georgia.
On Saturdvy, the first day of July
next, at 7 o,clock in the evening, at the Cof
fee-houfe in Philadelphia, will be fold by
au&ion, for a liberal credit, the following
fftates—
In the State of Georgia.
No- r.
A CERTAIN TRACT OF LAND, conj
taining 100,697 1-2 acres, situate in the
county of Montgomery, formerly the county of
Washington, on the call fide of Oboory river,
and the waters of the Altamaha, and about one
mile above the mouth of Pendleton's creek, and
in the neighbourhood of Mill creek. The im
provements on this trait of land, confining of
the most complete Grift and Saw Mills in the
southern country, having cost at least 20,000
dollars within these two years. The timber is
of the fined quality, and the quagdty is not to
be exhaufled.
a.
A trail of very valuable land in Fraiklin
county, lying on the waters of Oconee, con
taining about 7j,000 a«rei.
3-
A trail adjoining or near to No. 1, contain
ing about 25,009 acres.
4.
Two millions and five hundred thoafaad aeres
of land* being an vndivided part of all that
trait of valuable country, including lflaads, si
tuated on the Mobile Bay, Albahama, Tom
Bigby; and Mifiifippi Rivers, which was grant
ed by the State of Georgia to James Gunn, and
others, by the name of " The Georgia Compa
ny", in fee.
5-
Thirty (hares in the TenrefTee Company,
each share being about 10,000 acres, or one four
hundredth and twentieth part of the said Ten
nessee Company's purehafe, being so much of
the trail of country, granted by the State of
Georgia to Matthias Maher and Zachariah Cox,
in fee.
CO" This piece of property may, in the op
tion of the purchaser, or his afligns, be offered
to Zachariah Cox, forthefumof 175,000 dolr
lars, in two years from the 21ft March i-> 96,
who is obliged by his fpeeial bond, to take the
fame, if offered to him, at that time, and pay
for the fame, within fix months after the expir
ation of'the said twe years. This bond is fold
with tne land.
By order of
Henry Pratt,
T. IT. Francis, I J/r j-
John Miller.jun\ f
John Afhley, f Gr"nUaf
'Jacob Baker,
Edward Fox, Auctioneer.
May 15 mwftS
To be Sold at Public "Vendue,
At the Merchants' Coffee honfe, in Philadelphia,
on the 15th day of June, at 8 o'clock in the
evening, ii not before disposed of at private
falc,
40,931 1-2 acres of land, on the
waters of Wheeling and Filhing creeks, in Wash
ington county, Pennsylvania. The foil is .remark
ably fertile ; andfeefidca a large body of meadow,
there are considerable improvements on the pre
mifes. These lands were patented in 1787. On
payment of part of the purehafe money, a reafon
abla credit will be given for the refidne. Enquire
of the printer.
May 15. ' §ts
To be fold at private sale,
A TWO story dwelling house and let of ground
in the city of Burlington, date of New-Jtr
fey, in a healthy and pleasant fituatioii. The
house is of brick,containing four go«d sized room',
with a convenient kitchen and cellar. The Jot,
on which is a liable, &c. contains about an acre of
land of theb:!l quality, with a front fuflicient to
admit two 01 three large houses, independent of
that part at present occupied by the house.
For fmther particulars enquire of Joseph M'H
vaine, Esq. in Burlington,, or Joseph Reed, No.
214, High-street, Philadelphia
May 12. eo2w
Notice.
AGREEABLY to charter, is hereby given
to the members of " The Corporation
for the Relief of poor and diftrefTed Presbyterian
Minlfteri, and of the poor auddiftreficil widows
and children of Presbyterian Miniflers," that
a meeting of said corporation will be holden
in the fecondPrefbyterian church in the city of
Philadelphia, on the 23d inflant, at 4 o'clock,
P M. for the dispatch of all such business as
may then be brought before the Board.
ASHBEL GREEN,
Sec'ry of the Corporatiou.
May 1. $
Rofs & Simfon,
Have for Sate,
A QUANTITY OF PRIME
St. Domingo Cotton,
Superior Old Lisbon Wine in Pipes
Excellent India Market
Teneriffe Wine,
In Madeira Calks
A few Quarter Chests best
Fresh Hyson and ) T£AS
Hyson Skin J
Muscovado Sugars in Hogfbeads, and
Cofice in Tierces
March 7. ||tf
By John Fenno, N O, 119 Cbefnut Street.
Millinery Room,
No. 136 M'lrkrt Jlrert.
MISS C&itrSTAL «
j AKES an early opportunity of acquainting
* her Friends that she has received by the
William Penn, a variety of NEW MIL
LINERY, &c. which she hopes to be able to
fh -w them in a few days.
May 18 f 3 ot
A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRST & ad proof,
Gin, of 4th proof, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds
Old Hock, in cases of 40 dozen each
G)jf« Tumblers, in pints and half-pints
Window Glass, in boxes, if different (izes
Hazlenuts, in fecks
Whiting
Copperas ( . ...
White Lead f "> hhds
& Spaniih Brown J
For Sale by
PETBR BLIGHT.
January 4
Now Landing,
At Pratt's wharf,
FROM on board the ship Thomas Chtlkley,
Capt. Rafer, from Bourdeaux,
CLARET in casks
Ditto in cases
White Wine Vinegar
Red Skina in boxes
For Sale by
Rundle Sff Leech.
May 1 5 i
——r, ■ ■ ■ ■
Important Public Document.
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
And for Sale
At the Office of the Editor ofthe Gazette of the
United States,
No ng Chefiiut-Strect,
l/WCI ONI COLLAR AND «fTT CENT*]
A FEW COPIES OF THE
Receipts and Expenditures
OF THE UNITED STATES,
for the Year 1795,
Being the Latest Period to which an account
caa be made up.
February »i. §.
-
Erfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No 40 Souih Second street,
[Price 31 Cents]
A View of the Causes and Consequen
ces of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Ekskini.
May 1 s f
- 1 1, , ,
To be Sold,
A three Jlory brick House, with suitable back
buildings ;
SITUATE in Vinc-flreet, No. 88, completely
finifhed, and free of ground-rent: It has a
neat back yard, in which is a ciflern, and new
pump fer rain water—commodious cellars are un
derneath the whole, in which is a dry well bricked
up, that will hold ice. This property is well cal
culated for a boarding house. For particulars ap
ply at the preniifes.
Immediate polfcfEod will be given, or so as to
suit a purchaser.
May 15. jawtf
TO BE SOLD,
A valuable three story Brick House ;
SITUATE in Lodge alley, next to the bank of
Pennsylvania, the lot on which i{ (lands, to
gether with the vacant lot adjoining, which ex
tends to Goforth-ftreet. The house is about 50
feet in front on and about 41 feet
in depth, the adjoining lot is about 96 feet
front on Lodge alley, and 42 feet on Goforth
ftreet, being a street which leads oliefnut
flreetand Carter's alley into Dcck-iu at the
horse market. The house consists of ten lodg
ing rooms, with fix fire places, two dining
rooms, one of them forty feet in length, the
other about thirty-four feet, each containing
two fire places, two parlours and a large kit
chen, with extensive cellars under, and garrets
over the whole, a privilege of a vacant lot
of ground to the eastward between this house
and the bank, a pump of excellent water in the
yard, a handsome pial7. fronting the vacant
lot, and a frame liable and dwelling house on
Goforth-ftreet. The premises now rent for
£.318 per annum. To be fold clear of »11 in
cumbrances.
For terms apply to John Clement Sticker.
April »o 3awtf
To be rented,
given immediately,
A large, commodious Stone
Dwelling-House,
STABLE, Coach-Hpufe and Garden, situate at
the lower end of Germantown, about five
and a half milts from the City.
Apply to
JOSEPH SHOEMAKER,
No. iao North SecondJlreet.
May 18 4
To be fold cheap,
To close an adventure,
7 Bales Baftas
a ditto CofTas
Apply at the Store of
Mordecai Lewis.
May 16 eoiw
Philadelphia and Lancaster Turn
pike Company.
A meeting of the Stockholders of she Phita
lelphh and Lancaster Turnpike Company, will
be he[d at the Company's OfSee, on Monday,
10 o'clock, the iathjune next.
WILLIAM OOVETT. Sec'ry.
May 11. f» 4*> •
Landibg,
Front the /leaner Swallow, Dojnt, majler,
from Gonaives, at Cli/lbrd's wharf,
340 Bags COFFEE, _
24 Bales COTTON.
Far Sale by
John Clark.
No is north Wattr-ftreet.
May t8 §
Pennsylvania Population Com
pany.
NOTICE is hereby given to the Sharehold
ers, that a further aflefiment of" fifteen
dollars is levied-on each share, payable in the
fbllowing instalments —vi?.
One quarter immediately.
One quarter on the ift of June.
One quarter on the jfl September.
One quarter on the ift Dec. next.
\Vhich they are requrited topay to the Trea
surer of the Company at the Company's Office,
No. j3 north Fiiurth street, agreeably to the
times above mentioned ; and they are further
informed that on their neg!e£ling to pay the
fame as above directed, the several forfeitures
diretVd bv the Constitution, willl be exadled
By order of the Board,
SOL. MARACHE,
'Xreafurer.
May 1 j Jim
A FEW BOXES OF
Bologna Sausages,
Of a superior quality, to be Sola at No.
199, South Front.Street.
April ao, eotf
William Hay don,
Drawing Majler, from London ;
WHERE he ftudi"*d several years tinder one
of the most emineat matters in that sci
ence. He attends young ladies and gentlemen
at their refpetflive houses. His terras are fix
dollars per month for attendance three times
per week; likewise all kind of ornamental
painting, fruit, flowers, &c. taught on the above
terms.
A line direiled to W. Haydon, No. 26, Pear
street, will be immediately attended to.
W. H. flatters himfelf his terms will be par
ticularly advantageous, where there are several
pupils in the fame family ; as he makes no al
teration in his terms if there are two or three
to teach in one family.
May 9.
For Sale,
7he time of an indented Nagro Man Servant,
Who has nine years to serve ; can be well recom
mended for hoaelly and sobriety. Enquire at Ne.
127, Chefnut-ftreet.
May lj. d4t
For Sale,
jf fair of Good Black Carriage Horses,
Which may be seen by application at No. 124,
Spruee Street, between SecondT and Third.
May |a. §.
Just received,
And for sale by ITaac Harvey, jim. No. 5, South
Wat^-iirect,
A parcel of prime Rice ; also,
Trinidad and Cayenne Cotton
Coffee Mj Barrel® and Bags
Spaniih Hides and Beef/
4th mo. 25, ifg7. d4w
Mauriee Moynjhan,
No. 81, Ninb SecondJlrce(,
A few doors above Arch'-llrcet,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he has
for whulefale or retail, on' the loWelt terms, a
affortment of Queen's )Vafe, gilt and cut
tumblers, plain aiid flowered quart, pint, half pint
gill and half gill do. cxaft measures, decanters and
wine glasses; gallon, Half gallon, quart and pint
bowls, arid chi a in sets separate ; pocket
bottles: Schuyikill and Jersey country quirt and
half gallon bottles ; Ory Goods, &c. &c,
N. B. Crattßpitup with care at the fhortefl no
tice-
May it dtf
This Day is Published ?
BY MefT* Dobfon, tarey, Campbell, Rice, and the
other Book/eller?,
rice One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
Elegantly printed on tVove paper, and Hot
prejfed,
By John Thompson,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of the several States with each other, and with
that of the Unitvd States: exhibiting in Table?,
the prominent features of eaeh Constitution, and
clafßug together thesr most impertant
under the several heads of adrniniftration ; wilh
Notes and Observations.
By WILLI AM SMITH,
Of South-Caroling,
L L. D. arid member of the Congref9 of the
United States.
Dedicated to the People of the United States.
N. B. A few Copies pyjited on an iafcrior pa
per, at 3-4thsof a dollar.
February 6 mwf
For Sate,
ON hoard the ship Mour, John Frofl, mailer
from Liverpool, laying at Walnut-street wharf
6000 bushels of fine ftoved Salt,
And QUEEN'S Wri RE, well afTorted,
By PHJLIP NICKLIN & Co.
WHO HAVE IN STORE, ALSO FOR SALE,
100 Boxes WhiteHavanna Sugars
Hyson' 3 ' E A S
17 tubs Quicksilver
ichells Bandanno Handkerchiefs
A few chests Manchefler Goods well aflortcd
in corduroys, thicksets, ginghams, mufliuets,
dimities, Stc. 1 " runks blit k sewing silk,
180 Crates queens ware, well aflortcd,
10 Tons sheet lead,
Nails aflortcd, flat and {harp points,
London particular and ) Madeira Wine in
India market J pipes ar.d hhds.
30 pipes, 10 hhds. Tentiitfe Wine,
10 pipes choice-Port ditto,
31 calks yellow paint,
7 boxes 12 bundles writing Hates,
1 box ink-flands & note pre lies,
Sail canvas jfi'ortsd No. I i s.
Miy 4. dtf
JOHN CRAIG
HAS juftimported from Rotterdam, via St.
Tho mas, and for sale on reafonabje terms
by tbepaclnge,
Platillas Royal
Haerlem and German .linens
Ruutrn >
Post and ProPatri* Paser
Wafers
Quill.
02icts for Hoops, in Bundle*
Coulee Bags
He bat also for Sale,
Befi: Red Clover Seed
Old Madeira Wine, fit for immediate use
Ter.erifFe Wine of firft and second Quality
Coffee in Bags and Hogtheads
Jamaica Spirits
Connecticut Turpentine Soap
Window Glass
Two Trunks of best Patent, Siik and Cotton
HoGery
April 18. 43W
NOW LANDING,
From on board of the ihip GEORGE BAR
CLAY, Capt* Char lbs M'Alestir, from
Calcutta, the following GOOt)S, vi 2.-
Coffas Punjuro Cloths
Hummntpt Gurrahs
Guzeenahs India Calicoes
Emirtici Cotton Checks
Mamoodii* Mulnmls
Sahans Red and Blue Eerfligou
hkfs
Tickeries "Patra do.
Jollas Santipore do.
Carridarries Plain, striped and flower
ed fine muslins
Maragungss Ginghams
Baftas, various forts Taffeties
Sattln Romals Bandanno red iks.
ALSO,
3co Caflcs Sugar
40 Boxes do.
j65 ijigs do.
70,000 lb. weight heavy black Pepper
40,000 lb. weight Ginger
SO Tons Hemp in Bales
9 Pipes East-India Spirits
Fer sale by PHILIPS, CRAMOND WCo.
May 4. dtf
Received by the Indoftan,
From Madras,
A SMALL invoice confining of the following
Coast Goods, v«.
Blue Cloths
Long Cloths, 14 punjum»
Do. do. firie
Madrafs Handkerchiefs, and
Book Muslins »
WILLING y FRANCIS
Manbij. 3aw.
Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLER, Jan. & Co.
No, 8 Cbefnut-Street,
Have fpr Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS aeatiy afibrted, very low on
credit.
March 6.
Laws of the U. S.
SWIFT'S EDITION.
J lift Publijhed,
Price 6 dollars, 3 vol. 1 jrno.
Sold by W. Young, Mills and Son, H. and
P. Rice, M. Carey, I<. Campbell and Co.
Laws of the United States,
From the commencement of the Feeler aJ Govern
ment to the end of the lajl SeJJian of Con-
Rrefs, <wbicb terminated Mtrch 3, 7.
THlSedition, published under an order of
Congress of the United States, has many
peculiar advantages. In the former one, each
volume had a separate index, whieh rendered
the reference in all cases, difncul' aijd trouble
fopie, and in many almost impofiiblc. The in
dexes wtre, moreover, very injudiciously com
piled On the contrary, in theprefent edition,
there is one copious, luminous index, com
piled by Zephaniah Swift, Esq. referring to
all the volumes, and comprising in itfelf a com
plete digest of all the laws of the United States.
May 3. w&syt
Caution.
THE Public are hereby forevarned against
trusting the flop-daughter of the Subscrib
er, and her mother, Jiis second wife. Repeated
mifcpndufl compels him to fo;Vd any perfoa to
give (hem credit on his account, as he will pay
no debts of their contra<sling after this date.
LUNO BROWN.
Philadelphia, May 16, 1797 i3—^[i,h.3t
Venereal Complaints,
PUNCTUALLY attended to in every stage of
that disease, without the use of mercury or
restraint of diet, in any cafe recent and simple, on
application at No. I*3, Chefnut-frrect, pgpofite
the United States bank, or at No. 170, South Wa
ter-street, between Spruce and Pine-flaeets, where
he ha* opened an office for the better accommoda
tion of his patients.
But in Lues Venerea confirmed, Do&or Morgan
pledges himfelf, that no system of cure (I*>wev«r
i'pecious) can be effc&ual without mercury, apd
that all the known rules of pra&ice for thele two
centuries past, and united experience alnrms, that
any substitute for it i» but nugatory, and mode
of pra&icc to the contrary mull be futile an<l de
ception.
Nevertheless, he undertakes, however Qcn&Ji
catcd the cafe, to effect a cure without inconve
nience or injury to the patient's ctfifti ulion, and
in time net generally experienced or ejrpe&ed.
N B. Regular attendance at the office in Wat<»r
ftreet, from tke hour of nine o'clock in the morn
ing until one, and from three o'docluia the even*
ing until seven; but any o' her time at his dwelling
house, in Chcfnut street.
May 16. dtf
This Day is Published,
Price 25 Cents,
By JOHN ORMROD,
NO. 41 CUE3NUT-STRIIT,
A Discourse,
Delivered on the i;d of February, 1797,
At the FV.XFRAI of
The Re*. GILBERT TENNENT SNOVDRN,
Pastor of the Prelbyterian Church of Cranberry,
in the State of New-Jersey,
By the Rev. SAMUEL STANHOPE SMITH
D.D. President of tha College of New Jerfry
March ti
fVoLVMF. XI.MteßssrniG corrZSPOS'DSS'CS,
RELATIVE TO TBI AFFAIRS Or
FRANCE AND THE UNITED STATES.
7be foHovn -g eomfpondtnct, eamprjfthg tbe
majl i mportant of the dicuments contained in
the Prrjident'i m/ffage to Congrejt of 19 lb
January last, if ftrrufed with candor and
attention, mujl fatisfy every independent A
merican of thefine ere, aSive and unccafing
efforts of our government to maintain invio
Tate the rights of France, refultingfrom the
duties of neutrality, the latu of nationt and
cxijling treaties, anJmoft completely vindicates
our nation from the vnjufl veproachct and
complaints of the French Dlrettory and its
agents.
" A government which required only a know
* ledje of the troth to juftify itimeaftres, colild
" not but he anxious to have this fully and frankly
* difplaycd." ' 1
president's MESSAGE, JAN. 19, '9;.
Mr. Horrifon, Diflria Attorney oj New-Tori,
to Mr. Pieiering, Secretary of State.
New-Tori, nth December,
Sir,
Mr. Adet's long and extraordinary note
of the 15th ultimo, could not fail of exciting
both furpiifg and attention. The variety of
ill founded charge* which it contained against
thjr molt revered and tefpeaable charaSertin
our country, and its general drain of censure
upon the wife and impartial measure* of go
vernment, had a natural tendency to make
the reproaches it contained upon inferior in
dividual* be considered rather as marlci of
honourable diftin&ion, than as infliftive of
dilgrace. Under these imprrfHons, and con
scious that ai far a« I was implicated in his
censures, they were wholly unmerited, I had
balanced with myfelf whether it could be pro
per to add any further statement ta .those
communications refpe&ing the cafe of La
Vengeance, whieh had already been tranf
mittcd to the principal officersof government.
Left, however, any thing Ihould be warning
to a complete vindication of the courts and
officers, as far as 1 was personally concern
ed, and in deference to the contained
in your letter of the 10th inft. I (hall briefly
recapitulate the eircumftances attending the
several suits against the privateer, with the
particular reasons that influenced my condud
as profecator for the public< I trust that
the detail will fully confirm not only the pu
rity of those motives by which 1 was aduated
but also the propriety of the mcafures which
I thoyght it right to pursue.
About the latter end of June, ot begin*
ningofjuly, 179J, the piivateer JL,a Ven
geance irrived with a valuable prize, in the
harbour of New-York, at a time when 1 was
absent from tbe state, upon a tour to tbe east
ward for the recovery of my health. Upon
the ad of July, if I am rightly informed, a
fifit was commenced on the admiralty fide of
tbe ijiftrift court, by the Spanish consul on
behalf of thtoiiginal owner of the prize, u
pon an allegation that the privateer bad been
fitted out in the United States. This cause
was commenced in my absence, by the advice
of colonel Hamilton and Mr. Troup. 1 had
Mo participation in the business, nor any
knowledge of it ;<t-though if I had been ap
plied to, I should not have thought it incom
patible with my station to have been original
ly concerned for the libellant; as the free ex
ercise of profeflion in all cause* where the
' United States are not parties, the
diftrift attornie*. Before my return to New
York, the caU(« had already made some pro
gress ; the libel was filed, the prize arretted,
and a claim, I think, instituted by capt. Be
rard on behalf of one Jacques Rouge, whom
he aliegcd to be the owner of the privateer.
Mr. Adet's insinuation, therefore, that the
prize tuat arrcfled in confejuenee of any cxer
srtionor appearance of mine, i* totally unfound
ed, and to be clafled with the other ground
lef« reproaches by which his note it dilia*
guiflted.
U,»>n my return the Consul of the King
of Spain at New-York* complained to me
in my official capacity, of a violation of law
on the part of the privateer, in consequence
of which a Spanish subject had been injured.
Thi* complaint was entitled to attention, both
from its own nature and the situation of the
complainant. I could be under no improper
bias from any connexion with the prize cause
even >if I "»as capable of being so biafled ;
because, a .hat time, 1 had no concern in
it ; and > erefore Mr. Adet'* observation
that 1 aftti. " without laying aside my of
fice of attorney for the captured', it equally
unfounded with the one above noticed.
Upon making tbe enquiries which 1 sup
posed requisite, 1 found at lead a probability
that the complaint refpefling the privateer
was true. This probability arose from what
I confideredas affording the certainty of ma
terial proof; and therefore, in conformity
with my doty, I commenced a prosecution
grounded upon the statute, prohibiting the <
arming of piivateers in our ports. In the
course of proceeding against the privateer, it
was cianifeft, that the cause of the United 1
States and that against the prize were sub- ;
ftantially the famt, and it was agreed that i
the evidence taken io the one cafe should be 1
vfed irt both. After some time, col. Hamil- ]
ton's numtrou* engagement* rendered it itn- I
prafticafcle for him to attend constantly to (
the examination of witnefTet, and at qneftion* 1
ferofe with .refpeft to the caefe against the 1
prize, wLv.-h did not emtrge in that ot the 1
privateer, 1 waa engaged to aflift at connfrl
in the prize cause, continuing alone at 10 e
very thing that rcfpe&cd the public prosecu
tion. This I may aver to have been carried I
on with the utmost faiineft on the part ofth# 1
United States, and no methodt whatever 1
were employed to delay the dccifion, which, <
however wit necefTarily retarded, in part by 1
the time consumed in examining the .numerous
witnefcj produced on behalf of the claimantt,
and in part, by the calamitous situation of <
New-York at tbat period. Perhaps too, <
there never were caufea in which more con 1
tradi£lory-and irreconcileable evidence was of- I
fcred, and in which the mindt of the auditors <
were more divided at to the real (tale of fall*
The judge of the diftrift tusk a conb'Jctablc I
1 time to examine the evidence and foim his
opinion, and tho' hi* decilion was in favor of
'he claimant!, yet he expressly declaied that
tf.ere wat probable cause for the leizure,
which hat ever been considered at fufficient
to juftify a prosecution on the part of the
I public, and 1 believe that whoever will exa
mine the mast of jarring evidence that was
taken upon this occasion, will accord in
that opinion, tho'he may think that under
all the circumftancet, the fadlt were too
doubtful to warrant a condemnation. To
the judge'* sentence upon this prosecution, I
thoughr it reasonable to submit on the part
of the public, and as one of the courftl in the
prize'raufe I united with my alTociate in re
commending the like fubmiflion in that cause
j alf i. These are all the obf-rvations which I
think it can be pr per to make with refpeft
to the firft cause commenced against the pri
vateer.
(To be continued.J
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
PokT of Philadelphia.
arrived.
' , Ship Warren, Church, Briflol, 48
: Sluop Peggy, Berry Alexandria, 18
r la the Warren came 9 paflenger*.
NEw York, Mat if.
1 _ ARRIVE 0. .DATS.
Ship Commerce. Ham, Havanna 18
. Brig Succeft, Bethburn, do. 19
Biam, Fairchild, Guadaloupe 19
Nancy, Ellifon, Cowes 40
£but brings no news
Schr. Fanny, Norton, Gonaives 16
Sloop Mary, L'Homtnedieu, Philadelphia 5
Tbe (hip Maria, Ferris, maften, from De
marara to this port, taken by a French pri
vateer, had been re-taken by the Matilda
frigate, and carried into Antigua, on the 23d
of April ; her trial for salvage was expedl
ed to comeoll in time for her to fail under
coovoy a? far a* the lat. 0(33,0, with the
European fleet and several Americans.
©apt. Dodfwoath, from Port-au-Prince,
May 12, spoke the brig Pjlly, Rose, from
Baltimore to Port de Paix, out 3 day*,'all
well.
By the brig Diana; captain Fairchild, 19
day* from BafTaterre, Guadaloupe, brings
the following account of veffelsleft there—
viz.
Andrew Simpfon, brig Eliza, N. York,
veflel and cargo condemned.
John Millet, Salem, cargo condemned.
Abel Bunker, brig Lucy, to fail in four
days for New.York. r
Samuel M'Lellan, brig William, to Port
land, from Barbadoes, bound for New-York
taken and sent unknown where.
Schr. Polly, Willis, Alexandria, cleared
to fsil in 6 day*.
Brig Nancy, Nimmo, Alexandria, veflel
and cargo condmned.
Ship ——, Bo ft 00, eapf Billings, wait
ing forjtrial
Brooks, fehr. Milton, New York, veflel
and cargo condemned.
Schr. Polly, capt. James Bonticon, of
Philadelphia, arrived from Martinico after
being in pofleffion ot theEsglilh for f month*,
to {til in 5 day* for St. Thomas.
hamlet fairchild.
Brig Naaey, Ellifon, 40 days trom Cowes,
on tbe 18th April spoke a Philadelphia (hip
from Norfolk bound to Hamburgh, out 24.
day*, lat. 45, 36, long. 25, 00- Maya,
spoke the brig Arethufa, of Providence,
R. I. fiom Savannah to Copenhagen, lat. 4
43, long 49, 30. May to, spoke brig
Hiram, John Hamblin, Mailer, from Bal
timore bound t* Br«meo,out 4 day*, lat. 38,
14, long. (/$, May 13, spoke a sloop from
New London, bound to Surinam, out J day*,
lat. 38, id, long. 55, 50. May 16,fpoke
spoke a brig from New London to Guada
loupe, out t days, lat. 39, 50, long, jq.
By this day's Mail.
NEW YORK, May 19.
[From' Gazette Francaife, printed in th'u city,
May 17.]
" Our reader* should be cautious how they
give credit to every nautical and mercantile
report that is flying about, and not even to
impose too implicit confidence in official ac
count*. The following faflt will prove that
the caution we gave wa* not gnfeafonable
One Captain ha* ktn with hia own eyes the
Englilh fleet cannonading the town and port
of Porto Rico. Another since reports that
it was not Porto Sico they attacked but Gua
doloupe, and that they bad already disem
barked Sqoo men at Grandterre. A third,
Capt. Miner arrived on Sunday last from St.
Croix, allures at that Admiral Hervey and
Gen. Abererombie, with 6 iiip* of the line,
with 6000 troop* and 1500 negroes are arri
ved at Porto Rico, have disembarked, aad
had entrenched within 6 mile* of tbe town
•f St. John'*.
By official account* from Gen. Touflaiut
Louvtrture, and jdoubtltfs authentic, at ibcy
arepuhßfbed al the Capt, there can be no lon
ger any 'gatjiion that thi* brave General has
taken five or fix brigand camp*, faught five
or fix bloody battles, cut to piece* Deflou
rie* arid Mentalembert* legion*, took Mira
btlais, Grand-Boil, Voiettet, besieged Ar
cahayt, and wat marching for St. Mark'tand
Port au Prince. It appear*, however, from
letter* by the Fox, from Port au Prince, re
ceived last Saturday, that all these migbty ac
tion* are reduced to a fimplc evacuation of
Mirbalait only, owing to a panic, or rather
forae trifling plot, which it it probable ha*
been already dcte&ed and punished. It i*
certain there wat not even a mule or an aft
killed at Mirbalait, altho' there were hun
dred* in tbe place, in the full powert of
htalth and vigoar."
By arrival* at thi# from Jeremie
and Aux Caye* ( Hifpar iola) we learn, tbat
Gen. Rigaud, after attacking all the ports
of Jeremie, had met with a repnlfe, and a
loft of 500 men, beside* one of hia Gen
erals, and bimfelf badly wounded. In bit I
attack* on Iroit, it i* said, he wa* at the
head of do left than 9000 Brigands. 1
BOSTON, May tj.
FREEBOOTERS AT HAND.
Gentlemen from Salem and Marblchead r
head inform us, that a coasting schooner put
mio the former place yesterday, which had
been plundered by a fixteen-gun French
privteer btig from Porto-Rico, about eight
leagues from Cape Ann, of a hogfheadof
rum, and other property ; and that the Cap
tain of the privateer threatened very hard to
burn the schooner. Fraternity this with a
ivitnefs.
From MARTINIQUE.
We learn, that the inhabitant* of that
island were under fearful apprehensions of a
visit from Viftor Hugns, the Don Quixotte
ol the Well Indies—(hould the BritilH force
. pass Guadoloupe to attack any of the lewaid
possessions of the French.
Mt. Russell—l read with aftoniltiment
the ttaflaiion of a letter said to have been
written by Mr. Jefferfon,to a person in Eu
rope ; and, after what Mr. Jefferfon has
lately said in bis inauguration speech, I mult
fufpeft it to be a forgery.—Were it not, in
any other country but this, its treasonable
. Sentiments would bring the head of the writer
to the block. An AMERICAN.
On the 16th April, an Englilh fleet of
between 80 and 90 fail, went through Sail
Rock Passage, bound to leeward.
From tht Columbian Centinel.
FRENCH INFLUENCE.
No. 111.
: MR RVSSEL,
That we may be enabled the more justly
to form aa ellitnate of the degree and extent
of the French influence in this country, it
will be proper to pause here a moment and
refled upon the nature of public opinion, how
it is to be colle&ed, aud in what manner if
may be excited, created or directed.
In every civil society the majority unless
roused by some appeal to their paffio.is or
interelt, are quiescent and inactive. In a
republican government like ours, the great
body of the people are perfeftly easy, and re
pose with confidence on the rulers whom they
have freely elefted and whom they know to
be equally interested with themselves in the
promotion of the public welfare and bappi
nefs.
But in every society however happy the
general (late of it may be, there will be per- j
sons of some one of the following descripti
ons: Relllefs, uneasy spirits impatient of ref
tiaint—four, morose malevolent heart*—dis
posed to view the fair objects of nature and
art, the beautiful fyllem of law*, order and
public happiness, with jaundiced eyes—de
pressed, defpeate, profligate abandoned wret
ches, possessed of a gambling spirit, desirous
of change, or vain ambitious mind 9, purse
proud men, but of dull and feeble talents, who
think that their merit* are overlooked, and
who wilh an overturn for the fake of gratify
ing their rage for diftindioH. These varioua
descriptions abound snore or less in different
countries—ln England Mr. Butke compute*
them at one fifth of those who think at all, !
but supposes that unless carefully watched,
they are fufficiently numerous to overthrow
the government. In this country, Ido not
believe that more one tenth of those who
are capable of forming any opinion for them,
fclves are of any of the foregoing descripti
ons, but though fa defpjoable in number*
and chara&ers, yet they are so subtle, a&ive,
persevering, indefatigable and organized, that
we have seen them effeft in a few weeks an
almost total change in the opinions of their
fellow citizens.—Assume the language and
authority of the people, and threaten the ve
ry exillencc of government.—Taught this
truth, partly by theii experience in their own
country and partly by observation of the A
merican chara&er, the emissaries of France
early learned how to acquire an influence, and
had almost discovered how to obtain a domi
nion over the opinion* and conduft of the o
pen and unfufpe&ing Americans—From the
peace of 1783 until the period when the Ja
coLin fa&ion had ercfted a new despotism in
Fiance, upon the ruins of the old, no parti
cular oceafion* exilled to call forth the intri
guing spirit of the French government—.we
do not therefore find any particular exercise
of this their darling propensity.
They contented themselves with filling up
the full quota of diplomatic and con! fular
agents, who were w.ell employed in watch
ing every interesting movement of our go
vernment, and who were ready mailhalled to
commence effective operations as event* or
oceafion* might require. Such an oceafion
unfortunately for'this until now happy
couafy too feon presented itfelf. The hrft
Hep* towards liberty which the French na
tion adopted, having for thcobjeft, (imply a
dimunition of the royal prerogatives, and an
amelioration of the condition of the common
alty and peasantry were received in this coun- ,
try with universal and uufcigned pleasure. ,
Our public paper* teemed with congratula
tion* on the aufpiciou* event.—When there
fore the mild, humane, and philofophi: War
ville, and hi* accomplices, of the Cirondill
fafiion, aimed the sanguinary steel against '
the head of their unfortunate monarch, (to j
whom, if to any of the French nation, we
were under obligation)— When they perceived
that all Enrope flood aghast at the horrid
fpedaele, and that incensed humanity was
urging combined nations to vindicate her
rights, it was to be expefted that they (houid
turn tbeir views to America, as their only
friend. Selefting then one of their most dar.
ling and intriguing spirits, a man who has I
already proved his abilitie* against the dev»- 1
ted head* of the unhappy Genevan*, and re- ]
calling firem this sountry a minister wbo had 1
too much honcfty and too great friendfhip 1
for nt to be trusted, they sent out thi* emif- i
fary to draw ilofcr the bonds of fraterniy, I
which untied the ltu» republics. Every art. !
ful device, every ingenious scheme, every <
plausible, every fafcinating sentiment was to 1
be suggested to cntnrp os. To pleale our .
vanity we were to be told, that the French .
revolution was but 20 emanation of our own.
| That a spark from America had lighted the
I holy Same—to gratify resentments yet warm
r| —to rekindle jealousies hardly txtinguifhed,
; j to rcfufcitate injuries not yet healed, we were
I reminded of British tyrannv—Britifh treache
ry, and Britilh cruelty. But above all, to
the idle andihe desperate, who have
: ever since been the warmed friends of French
' principles, they preached the mild, persuasive
1 and irrefible dudlrint i oWiiserty and equality.
1 Mysterious terms! What wonders you have
wrought ! Equality of properly ! Agrarian
laws ! Liberty to aft as our whims, pufliohs
or inter*!! diflate 1 How fsfcinating to the
dissolute 1 How captivating, ro the lazy and
1 i™pp_veri(hed Sansculotte ! This hopeful fun
of sedition begat by anarchy, (the descrip
tion renders it fuperflnous to call him Genet)
with a dozen choice fpiriis, in the consular
character, to aft as aids, were cantoned out
at proper ditlances, in the different parts of
the union. The happy effedls of their ex
ertions and talents have been widely felt and
lorely tealized, but cannot be justly described,
without devoting to them a separate number.
LEONIDAS.
Csa3 tttt.
PHILADELPHIA,
SATURDAY EVENTNG, MAY «o.
1 ' ■ n ii ■ i i.i.
COMMUNICATION.
THE speech of the President of the United
States has excited the lrvelieft approbation of all
real Americans. It may be justly called a true
■American/fetch. It breathes in every line gen
uine patriatifm. It came from the heart of a
tried patriot, and was addreiled/e the heart of
patriots alone. There was nothiag wavering in
it j no little trick to catch a transitory appro
bation from the discontented, or to soothe the
faflious. It was the explicit language of the
firft magiftrite of the nation, difciofing to his
fellow citizens the honest sentiments of his
■ heart, expreffmg with a proper feeling and sen
sibility, the wrongs done to his injured country,-
and his determination to attempt to obtain re
dress j while at the fame tjme it manifefted.hu
mane anxiety to avert the calamities of war by
temperance and negotiation. In tracing the a
trocious attempt to separate the people from
their government, it glowed with that patriotic
fire, which animated JOHN ADAMS in 17,%
and in 1)54, when another nation wi(h«l to
deprive 11s of our liberties. The old patriot a
gain (hone forth in all his youthful ardor, and
with the fame spirit which had animated him
to refill the efforts of one nation to reduce us
to an odious vassalage, he pledged himfclf to his*
j fellow citizens to refill every other, which
might repeat the daring attempt. When the
national legiilature (hall have reciprocated these
American sentiments, as there can be no doubt
they will, then (hall we fee an end to the expir
ing and contemptible efforts of domestic and
foreign fa&ionstotrample on our independence.
Then {ball we fee an end to the degrading com
plaints of a Monro?, and the inlulting speech
of a Barr as, then (hall we rally as otc fami
ly, united, free, and happy, around our oiun
government, and the enlightened adminiftra.
tion of a long tried patriot, who has devoted
his iifc toferve his country and maintain its
INDEPENDENCE.
PEPP ERPOTI
Bache and his clan toprofecute their fchemrs;.
I Tickled thetafie .vith Flummery and Creams ;
Their nostrums loath'd, and deep contempt their
lot,
Now swear the Dose fliould have been " Pef
p erpot."
For the Gazette of the United States.
MR. rZNNO,
THE following scrap was publilhedin Eng-'
land in 1778 —your readers will make such ap
plication of it to the present times, as may be
thought proper :
POLITICAL QUADRILLE ;
OR, THE NATIONAL CARD-PLAYERS.
America-
I believe I (hall play alone ; no, 1 will call a
king. I cannot lose the game ; I have three
matadorcj in my hand
King of France.
You did well to call me, for I am strong in
every suite ; besides, I know how to fwejje the
earth, and value myfelf upon playing all the
game.
Holland.
I wifli I had not played that double game, I
have not got a trump more, yet I (huffled well.
Oh ! lam a beajl 1 I wi(h I had not been forc
ed to flay ; I (hall Itffe all my fijh.
King of Spaix.
What did you call me for ! I (han't get a
trick, you know how the laji game went with
me.
Ireland.
I exfk leave. Do you give ? I (hall flay a
lone, if you force me.
Scotland.
I itch to play, but I have no king.
King of England.
I never have luck, when the curse of Scotland
is in ray hand } but in the firft deal of this fool
I have made some errors j yet come, the pool's
not gone, let's have a new sack ; I'll try what
tpey will do. Aye, this is something like 1 I
havetjlrongfuitenow,without a knave among
them.
Kir.g of PruJJia.
Am I oldest ? Oh 1 I fafs.
Emfrejs of Rujfta.
I have only a queen in my hand, so I wWpafj
too ; or if nobody chooses to take my cards, I'll
play any gentleman at put, or you, Mynheer, at
Dutch rubber J.
Emperor of Germany.
Someadvife me to play, others to let it alone.
What (hall Ido ? I'll e'en Hand by 'till I fee
time to tut in ; But I will firft play with the
Pope a game at cribbage, and try if I can lurch
him.
The Pope.
Ponto Falls.
To Thomas Jefferson, Esquire, Vice-
President of the United States and Presi
dent of the Senate ps the United States.
Sir,
W ITM that refpeft which is dae to your
high official Rations, a* "the next officer to
the chief magiilrate of the union, and the
president of an important branch of the na
tional legifiature, I exercise the right of a
cititen of the United State* to call on you
fur an explicit avowal or difavowr.l of the sol
lowing letter, which has been publicly Scri
bed to you in all our newfpaperg, and which
contains sentiments and principles too deeply
affefling the intewft, charafter and fifety of.
America, to be pafied by Unnoticed by any
American who values and cheriftic. them
Altho' that letter hat been of
public Hgiiation, I have been too often de
ceived by spurious fabrications of this nature,
to haflily adopt aa opinion on the fubjeft,
and knowing your expefted arrival in this
city, have forborne to make any (IriAures
upon it, until you had had a fair opportunity
of denying it/
The.* re sunt cris is of our affairs will not
brook any.further delay : the time is now
Come, when every citizen must speak his
opinion without disguise; when the public
have a right to know the real opinions of their
high public fttn&innaries. If you entertain
the sentiments ascribed to you in that letter,
it is your duly to avow them, to come for
ward manfully and to support them. If they
have been falfely attributed to your pen, it is
no less incumbent oh yol explicitly to difiu
vow them. 1 ihall for the present withhold
further remarks. Should your silence con
tinue, you will be justly regarded as the author
of that letter, and duty to the American na
tion will compel me to present to the puhlit
view those übfervations which, on thc-pera
fil of it,"have arisen in the mind of
A FELLOW-CITIZEN.
Important Letter.
Tranflatedfor the Minerva.
' From the Paris Moniter, of January 25.
FLORENCE, January 1.
LETTER
From Mr. Jefferfon, late Minister of the U
nited States ,in France, and Secretary to
the Department of Foreign Affairs, to «
citizen of Virginia.
This letter, laterally translated, is address
ed to M.jjMaazei, author of Researches, hrf
tortcal and political, upon the United States
oPAmerica, now refideat in Tufcany.
"" Our political iituation is prodigiously
changed since you.left us. InKead of that
noble love of liberty, and that republican go
vernment, which carried us ihroughthc dan
ger of the war, an Anglo Monarchio, Aris
tocratic party has riferi. Their avowed ob
jeift is to impose on us the fubflance, as they
have already given us the form of'the British
government. • Nevertheless, the principal
body of our citizens remain faithful to re
publican principles. AHoar proprietors of
lands are friendly to those principles,' as also
the men of talents. We have against us,
(republicans) .the Executive Power, the
Judiciary Ptzuer, (two of the three branches
of our government) all the officers >f govern
ment, all <who are feeling offices, all timid men
•who prefer the calm of drfpotifm to the tempes
tuous sea of liberty, the British merchants and
the Americans <wbo trade on British c-ap '.als, the
speculators, per font ioterefled in the bttni and
pnblic fundt [Eftablifhrnems invented with
views of corruption, and to aflimilate us to
the British model in its corrupt parts.}
" I should givi you a fever, if. 1 should
name the apostates who have embraced these
heresies ; men who were Solomons in council,,
and Sampibjns in combat, but whose hair ha*
been cut off by'the whore of England. [ln
the .orijjinaJ, par ' la carin Angletfrre, prob
ably alluding to the woman's cutting off the
hair of Satripfon, and his lof6 of ftrenglk
thereby.] ' ..."
" They would wrest from us, \)ti\ liberty
which we have obtained by. so njuth labour
and peril ;,but we Ihall">pr«fetV«.it. Our
mafsof weight and lichei are''fo-powerful,
that we have, nothing to Tear from' any at
tempt against us.by force. "If _fs fufficient
tliat we guard ourfelvee, and .that, jfte break
the HHiputiah lies by which they .ljiwe bound
us, in the firft slumbers winch luccceded our
labours. It fuflkes that wc arrefl the pro
grofs of that fyfttir. ofingrstittfdi"&>injuftice
towards France, from which"' would
.alienate us, to briiagus undtr.B.lft'iJh influ
ence, &C. ' ' ; ,-••*' ' VV V
[The foregoing, letter wears;all tie exter
nal marks of authenticity. And yet it feenu
hardly poflible an Atniyicaii could be capa
ble of writing foeh a letter. As the'letter is
circulating in Europe, we deem it j'uft, if a
forgery, to give Mr. Jefferfon an ojtoirtunity
to difovow it.J
The Commillioners
FOR carrying inte effe&'the TWENTY-FIRST
Article of the Treaty of Friendftip, Limits,
and Navigation, between His Catholic Majesty
and the United States of America, hereby give in
fafmatiop tp alt Pfrforis therein concerned—That,
ixt'Ordcr to terminate at! differences, on -account of
the lefles fuftainedby tire Citizens of the ,United
States, in confeque'nee of tkeir Veflels and Car
goes having b-en taken ky the Subje'&s of .His Cath
olic Majesty, during the late War between Spain
and France, that they are ready to receive'(at their
Qffi(;e,_between the hours of ten and" one o'clock,
flatly) all complaints and applications, authorized
by the said Article, during Eighteen Months,
trom the day of the date.hereof, and that they have
power to examine all such persons as come before
them, on oath or affirmation, touching the com
plaints in question, and also to receive in evidence,
all written testimony, authenticated in fuclf man
ner as they Ihall think proper to.require or admit.
By Order of the Commifftoners r
PETER LQHRA,
Secretary
Commifioners Office, ho. 109, Mulberry
flrecti Philadelphia, May lyth, 1797.
20—J
Musical Injlrument Manufactory^
No, 167, Arch Street,
TTAR.PER,harpfichord,grand,portable grand,
XX fid>board, pier table and square piano forte
maker from London, returns thanka to hit friends
and the public, for their liberal encouragement,
and hopes that by his afliduity and attention to ev
eiy branch of his kufinefs, to merit a continuance
of their favori. Piano fortrs made on the newcCt
and raoft approved plans, with pr4als, patent,
swell, and French harp ftop> which he flatten
himfclf will iue found on trial by unprejudiced
judges, to be equal if not fuperiot* to any import
ed, and. twenty per cent cheaper. Any iftflni
m *JTt purchafecl of him, ir not approved of in
twelve months, he will exchange..
■ *
N. B. All kinds of Musical made,
tuned, and repaired with the greattft accuracy,
dispatch, and cn the most retfonabU, term's, for
ready money only. .
Second kit< Piano Fortea tak n in evekanj*; ■
Mayie.CONGRESS.
HOUSE of REPKESEN TATIVES,
Friday, May Ig.
Mr. Brent, (rum Virginia, Appeared and took
his oath and feat ; aud Jeremiah Smith, from
New-Hamplhire, did the fame yefterdiy.
The speaker ofefcrved, that there wu a rule
of the House in these wotiU : " No committee
liiall fit during the fitting of the House, without
special leave."—He thought il neceffaryto ob
fcrve, that he had sent to the committee to
whom it was referred to prepare an answer to
the P=efident's fpcech, to learn if they were
ready to report. They relumed for answer,
that provided they had leave to Gt, they (houtd
be able to report the answer in half an hour.
On motion, learc wis gives.
Mr. Coit, from the Committee of Elections,
madea repart from the documents which they
had received, of memberseutitled to theirfeats.
The speaker informed the House that he had
received a communication from the Department
of State, containing sundry Documents referr
ed to by the President in his Speech to both
Honlcs, numbered from Ito 18. He proceeded
to read No. viz
i. A letter from General Pinckney -to the
Secretary of* State, dated Paris, Dec. 10, 17*6,
giving an account of his arrival at Bourdeaux ;
of his jobrVjey from thence to Paris, in which,
from the badriefs of the roads, he broke three j
wheels of his carnage ; of the ill treatment he 1
received from M. Delacroix, &c. He remarks
that it is »ot furprHing that the French Repub
lic have refufed to receive him, since they have
dismissed no less than thirteen Foreign Miniliers;
and fine* they have been led to believe by a late
Emigrant, that the United States was of no
greater confeauence to them than the Republics
of Genoa or Geneva. He also mentions, that
it Itemed to be the opinion in France that much
depended upon the election of the President, as
eoeof the candidates was con Cd-red as a friend
•f England, and the other as devoted to Franc*.
The people of France, he observes, have been
greatly deceived, with refpefl to the United
States, by mifrepreftrnations, being led to be
lieve, that the People and Government have dif
ferent views ; but, adds he, any attempt to di
vide the People from the Government, ought to
be to the People of the United States, the Jignal
far rallying —GenEinckntyfeveral times men
tions Mr. Monroe in this letter with great ref
peft ; and fays that before bis arrival the Di
reilery had been very cool towards him, but
since that time, they had renewed their aivilities
to him.
t Is a report ef Major-General Mountflo
rtnee to General Pinekney, dated Dec. 18,1796,
on the fubjefl of American veiTels brought pri
ses into the ports of France.
3. Extract of a letter from Gen. Pint kney to
the Secretaryjof State, dated Paris, January 16,
1797, in which he mentions the dillreffed situa
tion of American citizens, arriving in the ports
of France, who were immediately thrown into
prison, and could not be released, until an order
was got from the American Minister, counter
feited by the French Minister of Foreign affiirs;
and no Minister being acknowledged there at
present, no relief could be afforded, tie how
ever applied to M Delacroix on their behalf, by
means of faia Secretary Rutledge, and got
them attended to through the Minister of Gen
eral Police Gen. Pinckney gives a further ac
count of conventions which pafled between
})ii Secretary and M. Delacroix, on the fubjeil
of quitting Paris, in which he told hi be mull
do so, or be liable to the operation of the Police
Hws : but refufed to commit his orders to
writing.—-He motions Barraa's answer to Mon
roe's address, as » curious production ; but
fays it was not particularly <alculattd as an an
swer to what was said by Mr. Monroe, as he
had it prepared, and was unacquainted with
what would be said by Mr Monroe.
4. Extrifl of a letter from Gen. Pinckney
to the Secretary of State, dated Amftcrdam,
Feb. 18, informinghim.that having had official
sotice to quit the French Republic, he had gone
. to Amftcrdam.
} Extra# of * letter from Gen. Pinckney to
the Secretary of State, dated Amflerdam, March
j,in which be observes, that before he left Pa
ris, it was rumeored that the Dutch were de
termined to treat American veflels in the fame
manner as the French had done. He now be
lieve* that the French wilhed them to do so,
as he had lately received intelligence that the
Dutch hadohje&ed to do this, a Hedging lhat it
would be a great injury to them, astheyfhould
then lefe their trade with this country, and if so,
they would be deplriredol fur*ifcing that sup
port to theFicneh, which they then gav£ them.
France acquiesced, beeaufe five saw it was for
)ier interell; and having 35,000 troops in Bata
vij, it wis generally known, tHey could do
whit they pleased with that country. The
General adds, with delegation, that there are
American citizens who fit out privateers to
cruize against the trade of ttis country.
6. Extradt of a letter from Major-General
Mountfloreuee to Gen. Pinckney, dated. Paris,
Feb. 14, mentioning the capture of a veflel f rom
Boftoß, and another from Baltimore, by an A
merlcan citizen on board a privateer ; adding
that American citizens, of this elafs are contin
ually wilhing for more rigorous laws against
American commerce.
j Extract of a letter from the fame to the
fame, dated Paris, Feb. *l, giving an account of
two more American veffcls being brought into
L'Orient by the fame man, and of another vef
icl taken by a French privateer.
8. ExtraA of a letter from Geo. Pinckney
to the Secretary of State, dated Amsterdam,
March 8, mentioning the capture of several A
werican veffcls ; he alfofpeiks of the difagree
ablenefs of his fitUition ; and was of opinion
that the new Third of the French Councils
would determine whether this country and
France were to remain at peace, or go to war.
Though the former was desirable, he wiflied the
measures of our government to be Jirm.
9. Speech of Barras, President of the Direc
tory, on Mr. Monroe's reeal.
" to. The Decree of the Executive Direflory
of March,», relative to the l'eizing of Ameri
can veffcls.
ft. Exfrafi of a letter from John
Adams, Elq. Minister Resident of the ti
nned States, to the Batavian republic, to
the Secretary of State, dated at the Hague,
Nov. 4, 1796, giving an account of the dif
pafition of the people of that country to
wards this, which lie Rates to be friendly ;
and thii he attributea to its being their inter,
eft to befo. Thia country, he remarks. it
the only 'quarter from which they receive
regular paymenta. He adds, however, that
I hey have no will in oppoGtion to the French
Government.
11. Eslrad of a letter from the Com
mittee of Foreign Relatione of the Batavian
Republic to the above Minister, dated Sept.
*7,1796, making it appear very desirable
that the United .State* ftiould join them in
their common cause against Great Britain,
reminding him of the many fervieei which
tkey h «fVto sic red to this county.
'3- E*lra£fc of 4 letter from Join Quiujy
Adams itTanCwer to the above, wherein he
fays hi (hall not omit to forward their letter
to his government.
!+• Extradt of a lettel- from John Qjincy
Adams, to the Sccretaty of State, dated
Hague," Feb. 17, 1797, representing" the
French Republic as paying at little attenti
on to other Neutral Powers at to the United
States. He alludes te their conduft towards
Hamburgh, Bremen, Copenhagen, See.
15. Extritft of a letter from Rufut King,
ECq. to the Secretary 6f State, dated Lon
don, March 12, 1797, to tbe fame effeft.
16. A letter from the minister of Spain,
resident in Philadelphia, to the Secretary of
State, dated May 6, 1 complaining of
the injurious operation of the Britilh Treaty
against Spain, in three refpeflt, viz. as it
destroys the do&rine of free ships making
free goods ; as it makes certain articles con
traband of was, which in former, ireatiet
were not considered lo ; and as it givet to
Great Britain a. right to navigate the Milfi
fippi, which that minister infills belonged not
to us "to give, as it belonged wholly to Spain
before it gave the right tethe United States,
by the late treaty,® to navigate that river.—».
He concludes his letter with faying, that
the King of Spain is desirous of harmorfy
between the two countries, and relies upon
the equality of his complaints for fatisfae
tion.
17. A letter from the Secretary of State to
the Spanish minister, in answer to the above ; in
which he acknowledges that the treaty lately
concluded b, tween the two countries, had prov
ed'fatisfa<Sory to the United States, as it put an
end to a dispute wh'ch had exiited for many
years refpeifling the navigation of the Milfilippi,
and also as it afforded fatisfaSion to our mer
cantile citizens for the capture-os our ffiips and
cargoes All these, he allowed, were a<sls of
fubffabtial justice ; but all the ctker ftipulatiotis
were wholly voluntary, and perfetSly reciprocal.-
With refpeft to the three articles of complaint
refpeAing the Britilh treaty, he juftified the Ih
pulations as being just and consistent, and such
as this country had a right to enter into.
18. A letter from general Pin kney to the Se
cretary of State, dated Paris, February j, Hat
ing that the day after the arrival of the news of
the French general Buonaparte's fuceeffes in Ita
ly, he received a letter from M. Delacroix, di
re&ing him to Ipave Paris. Gen. Pinekney con
dudes this letter with observing, that the French
seemed to speak of this country as if it were
indebted to them for Independence, and not to
any exertions of our own. Our treaty with
Great-Britain is execrated : they with us tahave
no connexion with that country ; they wish to
to destroy the trade of Oreat-Britain, and they
look upon us as her best cuftorner.
The whole of these documents having been
read, on motion, they were committed to the
Committee of the Whole on the state of the U
nion, and 500 copies ordered to be printed.
Mr. Venable, from the Committee appointed
to prepare an aqfwer to the Speech of the Presi
dent, reported one (pretty much an echo of the
Speech) which was twice read and.committed to
a committee of the whole.
On the Speaker esquiring for wh»t day it
fliould be mader, Mr. W. Smith mentioned to
morrow—Mr. Nicholas Monday.,
Mr. Giles said the Answer could not be print
ed before to-morrow. As it was, perhaps, the
most important answer which ever was returned
to a speech finee thncommencemeni. *f the pre
sent government, and therefore ougqt to be well
considered, he thought Monday as early as it
ought to be taken up.
Mr. Livingfton said there was another reason
for delay. In the reading of the Answer, it
appeared to him to go to an approbation of alt
the measures of the executive in /elation to fo
reign nations. If so, it was of the utmost
eonftquence that the papers which had just been
read, Ihould also he laid before rhem previous to
its difeuffion, as they < ould not form an opinion
on that fubjedl until they had au opportunity of
perufisg these papers.
The question was carried for Monday.
Mr. New presented the-petition of Robert
Rutherford, complaining of the undue ele&ioii
of gen. Morgan (for the diftrifl which he for
merly represented) and praying for redrefc in
the prcmifes Referred to the Committee of
Eleflions.
Mr- W, Smith moved, that as the eonfidera
tion of the anfwtr to .he P efidtnf'sSpeech was
made the order for Mouday, that when the
House adjourued, it naight adjourn to that elay.
Agreed, a .d Adjourned
jForeign Intelligence,
HAMBURGH, March 23.
Lettert from Peterlburg of the 24th of
Feb. state, thai ilie couufcls of jhe emperor
Paul appear to have taken a decisive op
position to every overture of interference in
the fubfiMing war; in confcquence of the late
deliberations on tins fubjeift, the militia
eftabliftiment is already rediued to the'imita
tion of 1791, by which 5 major genera s, 13
brigadier generals, and 26 colonels arc Itruck
off the establishment. Thit reduction of
the military, does not operate with like effeft
ic the several naval departments, where mea
furet are carrying forward for the effe&ual
revival and support of the great naval neutral
system, which hat been eagerly adopted by
the emperor at the iirftance of hit Pruftiau
majesty.
Advices from Copenhagen of the 21ft
March, state the indisposition of the king,
and that the Pruflian ambassador, baron. Senft,
had left that city, on hit retuin home,
with hit lady and suite.
(JLn the zsth, the fleet, appointed to pro
tefl the trade in the Sound, during the
Summer, fell down to the Baum, where they
dropt anchor, they consist of the St. Thomas,
Lintworm, and Seaworm, of the line, and
several of inferior rates.
Os the 13th March, his Serene highness
the duke of Bruufwick, wat fcized with a
disorder in hitbreaft of which he died in the
"76th yenr of hit age—he had heard of the
fall of Mantua, and other serious newt before
hitdectafe:—his unexpe£ted death has ex
cited grief, and it has been notified in form
to the several courts of Europe. [1 his is
the celebrated duke who commanded the
Prufiian troops that invaded Holland in
1784, and France, in 1794 —with various
fucceltesj
In the proceedings at Rorpc on the 1 tth
February, before tlic surrender of Mantua,
a general council was held, cotifilting oftweji
ty cardinaltand eount Gal!ej>pi,on the <{V e !-
tidnof continuing the war, or executing the
treatv of peace forqvflj piopctfed. On the
liivifio-), there appeared sixteen vateg ;in f.«-
for of prosecuting the war, and but four
against it.
From London Pabtrs to April 3.
VIENNA, March 15.
The Audiian army in Italy has now taken
a concentrated fituatioh on the river Taglia
mento, as the inundation! of the Piava pre
vents taking an advantageous situation 011 the
latter river. <
During the lad three days, public prayers
have been put in all the churches and chapels
of this city and fu!<urbs, for the success of
the imperial arms ; from which we are in
clined to augur a continuance of the war, tho'
our hupes of peace are not entirely vanished.
Prince Nicholas Efterhazy has set out from
this city for. the Italian army ; he carries
with him 12,000 ducats, a part of a fubferip
tion laifed hereto be didributcd by the arch*
duke Charles among the soldiers, according
to their merit!.
Yesterday it was reported, that the arch
duke Charlei had had a fall from his hotfe,
n«ar Udrina, and hurt himfclf in the right
fqot, t.iough not dungeroufly.
Several officers of the Italian army, who
have been guilty 0/ mifcondutS, have been
rigorously punished by the archduke ; but
it is not true that any have been hanged.
Great quantities of heavy artillery have
been fcrit to the Italian army.—2o,6oo men
of the new. raifedHungarian troops will go
to the army on the Rhine ; and a corps »f
refeive of i2,QtS> men will be formed from
'the recruits from Bohemia, Gallicia, &«.
THE MOP.N.tN.O CHRONICLE.
. LONDON, April. I.
We lament to fay, that according to the
reports in the-beft informed political circles,
the accounts which ministers received from
tbe-contineot on Thurfdav, by no means an
nounce the profpeft of peace to any of the
belligerent powers. The league of the Pro
tcftant princes of Germany begins now to
manifefl and intentions. The army
of the king of Pruflia is atSlually in motion,
and his deligns are no longer equivocal. He
threaten! to fall upop Bohemia, while Buona
parte penetrates by the Tyrol, and Hoche
by the Lower Rhmc. This formidable at
tack, in the exhausted Hate of the house of
Austria, threaten! the very exigence of the
emperor, and there is no doubt but he mull
finally yield to their unprincipled demands.
By this league, and mi the event of the
feculat Ration of the-bifltopricks, the emperor
will have the inadequate compensation of
Saltzburg ; the king of Prußia will fcize on
the rich bifhoprick of Munfter, end the elefl
or of Hanover, upon Ofnaburgh. The flad
tholder will have the bifhoprick of Fulda, and
each of the contrading partiei will have the
slice most convenient to hi! present eftatei.
A meeting of the clothier! and woollen
manufa&ureri of Gloucestershire, ii to be
held on Monday next, to petition parliament
for peace. The corporation of Salisbury m.t
00 i uefday, and the manufacturer* and in?
. habitants of Salisbury met yesterday on the
fapir business.
Dupont de Nemours, in the French coun
cil of ancients of the 14th inft. announced,
that he had long entertained an amorouspaf
fiw f'-r Truth, Morality and Jufi'nt; arid
that he was then to consolidate his intimacy
with them by marriare.
April 3.
The Hamburgh mail which arrived on Sa
turday brings dill furrhec.confitmation of the
important fad*, that the emperor of Germa
ny, with a eondancy that doei honor to his
courage, though it will be probably unavail
ing, mutters all his Ifrength to stem the tor
rent just ready to brealc in upon hisiiereditary
doßimi.onsj and to force him to the surrender
of his preponderance in the Germanic body.
He is perfectly aware g{ the tende'ney of the
league which is formetTfor t<K aggrandize '
nient of the house of Erlhdenburgh. In the
February last Ist prefentcd a rescript
to the diet of the empire, in which we find
the rolluwing remarkable passage:
His majesty has repeatedly apprized the
dates of the empire, aftd particularly iheec
Llefiallica! dates, of their danger. ' He has '
endeavoied to convince them, that their event,
tual exittence, as independent dates, .was
threatened; that prbjefis of secularization '
werfe secretly forming, and that it was ap
parently in contemplation to grant an iudecn.-
nity to the ecclesiastical da'es, with a view
to compel the empire of Germany, divided
and incapable of defending itfelf, ro accept
this facrihce at the principal basis of the termi
of peace ; and thii objeft ii attempted to be
accomplished by a-jun&ion'and co-operation
of the power of s r rance with the Pipteitatit.
intered dependent upon Prulfia.*'
The danger is now -brought to its head.
The armicsof France "have no other objeft ;
and he l;asnoally but England. What aid
fnecan give him, is a quedion that a parlia
ment repreferrting the people of this Couritry-
Would speedily decide what decision .a, bar r .
liaajent Answering the defcriptiori of the tin
certand candid bishop of Rocheflef will.give
it is easy to determine. Tile chancellor, of
the exchequer has laid, in his place, that it is
for the inter-eft- of this country that we fhpiald
fend him more money; and accordingly ( m«re
will be sent. r
The emperor Francis's address to' Paul has
rot heen so fortunate. Letters from Vienna
fay that his answer is equivocal, in co'nfe
qucoce of which a favorable interpretation
has been given to it. Our reader! shall judge
for themfclves. The following article is from
Hamburgh. It will appear that out miniders
are more zealous in the cause. They have
not only agreed tojrive the house of Austria
fucconr in thoney dire 6t t but they have.held
out most tempting offer! to RuHia of a large
subsidy tq engage that court to inttrfere.—
The article from Hamburgh is as follows :
HAMBURGH, March 22.
Out accounts are, that the emperor Paul
has given an unfavorable answer «o the court
of London relative to hisfupport of the tri
pic alliance ; and that his proir.ife of an equip
ment of another fieet is couched in very
doubtful terms To the eourt of Vienna
his arifwer haabeen dill mere explicit, urging
that fce found the Ruffiig srmjr in so bid a
I ftitethnt not more than ty oa 20,003 men
could be fparej ajauxtllaries; that h • linan
| cea were remarkably low, and therefore his
advice to the emperor win to think seriously
of peace ; and at the fame lime announcing
1 hat he had written to the king of Pruflia to
induce him to become a meditator bet ween
Austria and France; and that he fhonld de
dermine what pjrt to take, by the answer he
should receive frotji his Prußjin rtpjefly,—
This, i: ii observed, is laying the pride of
Austria at the feet of it» rival with a wit
nefa.
The mail brings no other newi. The ar
mies are generally in motion, and all appear
ances indicate a most obstinate campaign ;
in which, through councils te
which wc are condemned, thii country is to
be deeply involved.
It it only by the declaratiwn of the united
fenfeof the country that we can deliver our
felvcs from this dreadful calamity. London
has given a grand and laudable example. The
common h'alf have solemnly ennfirmrd their
firft resolution ; and w* have seen that the
body of contractor! and jobbers, who thrive
upon the public spoil, have not-dared, as
heretofore, to agitate the question of a coun
ter addr«f» in the common council.
This day the city-os Wedminder, the
residence of the king, the parliament, the
Ctiurts of law, as well as of the nobility and
gentry of England, also meet to conlider of a
petition for the removal of miniftets. We
(hall fei whether the voice of found wifd'om
and independence will not triumph even -in
the chosen abode ®f influence and corruption.
OnWednefdaya meeting of the freehol
ders and taxed houfholderl of Bostons in
Lincolnshire, was held there, John Cart
weight, Esq.. in the chair,—The chairman,
after entering at large into a description of
the fiate of public affairs, and endeavouring
to shew the true f«urce of our calamities ;
proposed a petition to the House of Com
mons, which was seconded by Samuel Bar
nard, Esq. and met with no'oppofitien what
ever.
COMMON HALL.
On Saturday tbe Lord Mayor, Aldermen
and Livery of the City of Lotidon, afiembled
in Common Hall, to consider the report of
his Majesty's answer as to the time of receiv
ing their iddrefs voted on the 23d of last
month.
The Hall being opend with the usual
formalities, the lord mayor informed the
meeting that the report of the Sheriffs would
be read by the Common Sergeant.
Mr. Sylvester (the Common Sergeant)
read the report. It ftatird that the Sheriffs
had attended at St. James's on Friday, the
24th of March, to knowlwben the addrefa,
carried in the Common Hall, which was
held on the 23d, should 6e presented to his
maje'fty ; that the duke of Portland had in
fisrnted the Sheriffs that his onajefty received
addresses from the city of London as a corpo
rate body oa/y, and that he would receive the
address of*the Livery in the common form at
the Levee on the Wedriefday following, or
upon any utber. Levee Hay.-
Mr. Hvmfon adorcfTed the Livery. After
a speech of confidetablc length, in which he
vefy forcibly dated the insults which his
roajefty'ijminifters had,in this inllance, given
to the Citizens of London, He moved—•>
That the Sheriffs of. London have.at
all'times a right to an audience of the King,
arid when deputed b.y 'tfie Lj,very of London,
they are in duty bound to demand it."
Mr. Farmer the motion. He
said he had more refpeft for his msjeny than
to believe that the aofwej given tc. the Iher
iffs was the king's anjwer*. . Precedents had:
been fought for to fupporl the present rtYufel
to receive the. city
said that it was'in'fome degree warranted by
an aft of Parliament passed in the rtign of
Charles 11. but that was surely an »ra too
inauspicious to liberty to permit aay of its
regulations or praftitsi to be ngw held up
as example!.
The quedion being put, tue resolution
was carried in the affirmative, as were .all
those which followed.- "On the shew of hands
orily tw»-appeared against each refolutipn.
One of .the nop contents was Mr. Ketnble,
a tea-broker. ,
Mr. Waddirigton said the resolution- he had
tp propofc would have'come e with peculiar
propriety from the Alderman of the wafd
of Farringdon Without, (Mr. Wtlkp) who
he was forty to observe, was not preferit orf,
that dajs. He thought the fheriSfs had. ,
very impfopetiy in taking an answer from
ilie-dukeof Portland, and returning without
ta agdiepce of the king. Thu duke of Port
land afled, t in this inftauce, only as a fervent,
and it did not become the citizens of Lon
don, m Common Hall afTerriblrd, to receive
the answer of a servant of fcrvants. He
hoped the Lirery of London'would not fuSer
thi rights and liberties of'the'eity to 6e in
fringed. : tie concluded a'very able speech
by moving, t •- •
.-".That the- lord-rtiayor, attended .by the
ihetiff, and-the reprtfentativvs of the city i.>
Parliament, be -aga'in rrqucfted to present to
hii majesty, the ad'dref* voted in the Com
mon Hall of the 23d cf'March, and that no
jnfwer be received through the medium of
a Secretary of Rate.
Mr. Wait-bman seconded the motion
The .following,refolution, moved by Mr.
Haofon and fecot d:d by Mr. Wsfddingtofc,
was next carried - i
That the fheriff of Ldndbn, attended by
the city remembrancer, do wait ou ,his ma
jesty to know when l he will be gracioufty
pleased to receive the fat'd address on the
thror.e.
'On the m»tion of Mr. Farmer it vra» re
solved :
Tjiat ihe fherifis V inftrufted, if nerejftiry,
to infotm his majelly, that the lor.d mayor,
aldermen, and livery of London, cannot de
liver tbeir address in any other manner than
to the king on hU throne.
After this tefolutiori wii passed, Mr. She
rifF Langfiorr erme forwerd and infotmed the
livery, that they might depend upon the (her
iffs of London doing their duty agrieable to
thcif inllrufliops.
Mr. Wrfithman flatcd that the proceedings
relative to the calling of the last Commuli
Hall hid not been entered upon the journal.
He therefore .meved,
. " 1 hat the answer of the lord maycr to
the rrquifitioi).«f t.he liv.ery for holding «h<
lail Common Hall,. together with tbtfirtc*
monflraucc.be entered upon the journal of
their proceedings."
Mr. Waithman faid,-that however he
might, have tJi&pproved of the; condtift of
the chief magistrate with.regard torhe calling
of the last Common Hall, Hia hsrdlhip on the
present occasion had. a&rd in such a raander
as cquld not fail to procure him jhe spproba
tionof the lifjry. Imprcffcd with this fer
ttment he feiovod,
, .That the thanks of .this meeting be giv
en to the lord mayor sot hie impartial conduit
this day."
Carried unapitnouily,
On the motior. of Mr. Farrier, the refo
lntions were ordered ta be correftly copied,
ligned by the town elerk, and publilhed in
all the morning and evening papers.
PORTSMOUTH, Marclr3o.
This day arrived lord Bridport, with the
whole of his fleet.
Xftc ©alette.
PHILADELPHIA,
SATURDAY SfENING, MAY »«, 1797.
Exlrt/R of (f lifter from a gentleman in Lon
don, to a merchant in Philadelphia, dated
Marcbl 5, 1797.
" Yeflerday ftrotig reports and indeed
publications were ciiculated, of.Pruffia hav
ing joined i'rance with 60,000 troops, and
that ihe Emperor |iad in cotifeqcience con
cluded Peace. It proves however to be no
thing more than a developcment of the secret
articles of-the Treaty of Bade, in 1793,
between Prussia and the Republic, by which
the former it feemn has guaranteed to the
latter the pofleflion of Belgium, the inde
pendence of Holland, the eftahlifhment of the
Stadtholder in fomc part of Germany, after
retaining a few of its provinces for himfelf.
It is supposed that the knowledge of these
articles will draw R«ffia into hoftilitiej
againlt Prussia and France : whether or no,
it may not contribute to a general peace is
matter of speculation.
Every thing temains here much as it did ;
the credit. »f thg Bank-paper remains unim
p aired; the Miniftcr and Parliament are dill
engaged in wry'.'important enquiries into thg
finances of the country, and ' though every
thing is certainly very critical, arid a change
•f Ministry wiih many other measures are
talked of, yet the Government seems strongly
fupportpd, nor do I fee much probability of
either taking place.''
The brig Nancy, Ellifon, 40 days from
Cowes, arrived at Niw-York, iffth instant,
brought London papers to the I'ti of April
only.
LailtSon's Circus,
South Fifth-Street
t The Performances at the NEW CIRCUS
This Evening, Mav loth,
Will begin by a Giar.d Parade of Equeftriatl
Pei formers of both feres.
A grand display of Horsemanship,
By&alTrr Langley. Sully, Herman, C. Vande
tVeUe/'Berg, and r.t'Donald, the Clown.
■ Lofty-Tumbling Groupe,
Cciifofcd of Meflrr., Lang'ey Sully, M'Qon
j aid, the Clown, a»d Rcand, will execute fevaal
; dilEailt oxercifeson the Stage—-which will be pit;.-
■ fantly decpratrd.
Mr: LaxglfjTj the American Eqneltrian, will
perform federal curious and difficult' Excrcifta
which he has never performed here. He will
jump over feretal I urs of a prodigious height
with the greatest agility. *
Mr..M'Donald, in the chara&er of Clown, will
perform a variety of Comic Feat*.
MISS VENICE
Will parform several aftonilhiog feati which have
never been attempted but by hers. If
Mr. Langley will perform numerous exercises
teo tedious to inftrt in an advertirement, a»d leap
over a ribbon, standing upon two hor.ej.
After which, will be presented (forthefirft
time) a beautiful Freach Comic Opera, called,
Les Deux Pctits Savoyards,
OR,
T.HE LITTLE CHIMNEY SWEEP.
'l'he raufis by D'ALeyrae.
Mr. DouvilUers
Clermont, , , Mr Poignard'
Judge, Mr. Vielliard
; Jan»e«, Mr. 6t. Marc
Thi Sweeps J Michael, MifsTeffeiro
v i Joseph, MifrSopic
The evening's entertainmew will conclude by a
called
La Guingette ;
Gr, THE GOOD HUMORED GIRL.
In which Madame Douvillirri will dance L vera I
Pas tleuls.
AFO'Elfers's Hotel.
Readings and Recitatigns,
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining
FOR ONE IVEEK ONI.T.
On Monday evening, Miy nd, at eight o'clock,
WILL BE DSUVERID.
Part 1.
Effiiyon Taste and Oratory
Part 11.
Othello's sddrefs to the Senate Shakespeare
Brutos's fpeer.h on the death of Csefar <i«.
Anthony's Funeral Oration do.
Part 111.
Satan's address to the Sun Milton
Ode on St. Cecelii's Day Pope
Ode on the Pillions Collins
Tiekett (half a dollar each) tobehsdof Mr.
Foulfon, at the Library, and at the Bar of
O'Eller's Hotel.
; he nighis of the Readings will be on Mon
riav. Wrdnef'tav and I ; ridav
Ling Ga*qsa
THIS EVENING.
At the Merchants Coffee-
At 1 o'clock in the evening-
SH 5 ! will he in gord order, hiving been just
ho*e down, and may take in a cargo im
mediately, and be sent to sea at little or no ex
pense. Inventory to he fees, and terms made
I kno v »n at the time o£ fait.
I Fhili*. May »o.Just arrived,
In tie Irigt Twins and Fame,
A quantity of llavanna and St. Croix
Sugars,
Of the firlt quality*
—ON HAbiD, —
Choice JAMAICA SPIRITS & St.Crsix RUM
James Tard,
On WalnUt-flreet Wharf.
Miy 3 d'<*.
Canal Lottery,
No. 11.
Scheme of a Lottery,
A'whotiied by an aft, entitled, "an aft to
enable the President and Markets of the
Schuylkill and Rafquehannah navigation, to
taile, by way of Lottery, the sum of Four
Hundred Thousand Dollars, for the purpose
of completing the works, in theif afts of
Incorporation mentioned."
Dollars
1 Prize of twenty thousand dollars, 20,003
l of ten thousand dollars, 10, coo
5 of four thousand dollars each, to
be paid to the pCfTeffors of the five
numbers firft out of the wheel on the
lift day's drawing, at which time there
(hall not ba less than 500 numbers un
drawn, 20,000
10 of two thousand dollars each, 20,000
30 of one thousand dollars each, 20,0C0
43 of five hundred dollars each, 21,500
100 of two hundred dollars each, 20,000
100 of one hundred dollarseacl), 10,000
220 of fifty dollars each, Il,oo«
39500 of five dollars each, 147,500
30,000 Tickets at ten dollars each. 300,000
Six dollars for each ticket will only be de
rtunded at the time of sale
All prizes (hall be paid ten days after the
drawing is finilhed, upon the demand of the
pofleffor of a fortunate ticket, fubjsft to a de
duction of fifteen per cent.
Such prizes as are not demanded within 12
mouths after the drawing is finilhed, of which
public notice will be given, (hall be considered as
relinquilhed for the use of the Canal and applied
accordingly.
At a Meeting of the President and Mana
ger of thi Schuylkill and Sufcjuehanna
Canal Navigation—and the President and
Managers of the Delaware and Schuylkill
Canal,
Resolved, That Joseph Ball, John jiteinmet?,
Standi(h Forde, Francis Weft, James M'Crei,
John Miller, jua. and William Montgomery,
be a committee to arrange and direcS the mode
of difyofifig sf the tickets 1 which committee
(hall deposit this money in bank, to be carried
to the effidit of an ancount to be opened for
the Lottery.
We the ComtniSioners appointed by the Go
vernor to superintend the drawing of the Lot
tery, inform thi public, that the tickets are
now rolling up, and that the drawing will po
sitively eftanmrnce on Mandaythe 29th of May
next.
Frederick Kuhl,
James AJh t
George Budd.
PhiUd. April 17, 1797. iaw
Tickets at fix dollars each to be had of the
managers, or at the canal office, near the bank
of the United States.
Lancaster, Harrifburgb, Carlijle,
Shippenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
THE public are requested to take notice, that
the partnsrihip which has for some time fab
fiiled between Mathias Slough of Lancalter, and
Williim Geer, is now diflolved: but, not as M.
Slough infinaatesto the public without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fub
jedt from M. Slough t» W. Geer, dated the 29th
December lad. a recital of which is not now deem
ed neceflary. Any gentleman who wilhes to be
more circumstantially inf»rmed of the merits of
thi3 business, by applying to W. Geer may have
the perusal ef M. Slough'" letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfeflly juftifiable in attaching him
felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
public were pleased to confer on the firft effort in
this business, William Geer, in conjunction with
Meflrs. Reily, Weed and Wkmer, is determined
to prosecute and carry it On, with every care, at
tention and rfifpat'ch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can poftibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
render the paflage fcfe and commodious, inform
those who wifli to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancalter, Harri(burg,
Csrliflc and Shippsnfburg. The fare as hitherto
eltabliihed.
For the further accommodation of the public,
a Stage will (lart every Wcdnefday from the house
of Samuel F.lder, Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bur; - in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
and return from the.ee and arrive at Harrifburg
every Saturday, so that passengers destined for
Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed on Mon-
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster, Jan. 37, 1797.
N. B. Thi- Line of Stages (larto from the
house of William Ferrae, in Lancaster, on every
Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
ceeding to the westward; and from the house of
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg every Wednes
day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippcniburg, and returns
from thence on every Thursday : performing the
fame routine daily as in its tour from Philadel
hia. mwf
GOLD AND SILVER
bullion.
THE highest price in ready money will be gi
ven for gold or fitver hnllirrn, aid gold Hr
silver, or gold dull, »t No. 29, North Seventh-
Creet.
_April 20 2aw£w
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal
. Company,
May 1/7. 1797.
THE STOCKHOLDERS
WHO are in arrtasfor aiy sum« due on their
refpeflive shares, are rcqueftcd to pay the
fame.
. WILLIAM GOVETT, Trafurer.
10 ni4w
, To be rented,
A&ange of STORES on Morten's wharf. Pcs-
Icilion may be had immediately.
Enquire of
KEAkNT WHARTON,'
109 South Water-street.
May 1
Building Materials.
THE fubferiber has on hand, and affers for
faleat a reduced price tor cash, or barter
for lumber, wet or dry goods, 78 trimmed win
dow frames, and fa(hes, each frame containing
14 lights for 10 by 8 glass; both falhes may
be hung by weight!. Thcfe frames are all made
of good materials, and will suit for town or
country buildings.
If bought by carpenters for their employers,
their us .al profits will be allowed.
Please apply at No. 38. north Seventh-street.
Conrad Bart ling.
N B. A second hand riding chair and har
ness for sals.
May r6 s.;t
Notice.
Afril 1797.
THE Managers of the Canal Lottery, No.
11, So nounce to the public, that the
drawing will positively commence on the twen
ty-ninth of May next. Tickets to be had of
either of the managers, and at the Canal Office.
Wm. MOORE SMITH, Sec'y.
April 3 mth,t29thM
A New Work.
PROPOSALS
For printing and publishing, by fubfeription, The
History of Pennsylvania,
IN North-America, from the original inftiiution and
fetticment of that province, under the firft propri
etor and governor, William Penn, in 1681* 'till
after the year 1742; with
AN INTRODUCTION
Refpe&ing the Life of W, PENN.
Prior to the grant of that Province, and the reli
gious Society of the people called Quakers; with the
FIRST RISE of the NEIGHBORING COLONIES,
mere particularly of WES I-NEW JEkSEY, and the
Settlement of the DUTCH and SWEDES on DELA
WARE. . /•
To which is added,
A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SAID PRO
VINCE.
And of the general (late, in which it. flouri(hed,
principally between the years 1760 and 1770. The
whole including a varietv of things, ufeful and in
teresting to be kßown, refpefting that country in early
time, See. With an appendix.
Written principally between the yean 1776 and 1780,
By Robert Proud.
" Pulchrum cjl benejaure rerpnblicce-, etiam beneiicere
hand abjwtdurn ejl % vel pace vet hello clarum fieri licet**
sal. Catalin.
u Sedcum plerique arbitrentvr res bcllicas majoret eje
qu&m urbanas, minuenda eQ hacopinio.**
Cic. Off.
(Entered according to law.)
11 WILLIAM PENN, the great legislator of the
Quakers, (in Pennfylv-nia) bad the success of aeon*
qucror, in eftablilhing and defending his colony, a
mong savage tribes, without ever drawing the sword ;
the goodness of the most benevolent rulers, in trea
ting his fubjefls as his own children ; and the tender
ness of an universal father, who opened his arms to
all mankind without diftmftion oi feft or party. In
his Republic it was not his religious creed, but per
sonal merit, that entitled every member of society to
1 the protcftioa and emolument of the State*"
EJfay on Toleration, by Arthur O'Ltary.
CONDITIONS.
I. This work will be printed in two oftavo vol
umes, neatly bound and letteied, both in (heep and
calf, for the choice of the fubferibers; on paper fimi
lartethatof the conditions, as publijhtd in tkeSubJcrip
tionpapers.
11. The head of William Penn, kandfomely en
graved, will be prefixed to the firft, and a map or
sketch of Pennsylvania, and the parts adjacent, to the
second volume.
Ill* The price to fubferibers will be four dollars
and an half in sheep, and five dollars in calfone
dollar to be paid at the time of fubfciibing, two dol
lars on the delivery of the firft volume, and the re
mainder on the delivery of the second.
IV. When one thousand copies are fubferibed
for, the work will be out to press and finifhed with
all conven ent expedition.
Subscriptions will be received by Zachariah Poul
fon, jun Printer, No. 80, Chefuut-ftreet, and at the
Philadelphia Library in Fifth-ftreet ; by Isaac Col
lins Printer, and Joseph James, Merchant, New-
York; by John P. Pleafantsaad George W. Field,
Morchants. Baltimore i and by other persons both
in town and country*
February 18. tu &f
To be fold or let,
And immediate pojfejjinn given,
A genteel two story Brick House ;
SII'DATE on the urper end of Broad-street, in
the city of Burlington, with four rooms and
an entry on each floor, good cellars under the
whole, a pump in the yard, a garden and court
yard, containing nearly half an acre under good
lence, with a liable adjoining the yard. The
whole property is in good order. ,
For terms apply to the fubferiber in Barlington,
who will give a credit for a confidcrable part of
the purchase money if good security is given.
William Ccxe, jun.
May 17. ia\vtf
NOTICE.
THE Subscribers have strong reifons to be
lieve that the following evidences of (hares
in the Bank orf the United States have been loft
on their way from England—and give this pub
lic notice, that application will be made at the
proper offices for a renewal of the fame, viz.
No. 3077 iftued in lieu of No. 9705 1019790
5 (hares
No. 2159 do. 16137, 16141 5 (h»re».
10 (hares sent by the Polly, Capt. Clements,
to NOl folic
No. 1687 ifltied in lieu of No. 6718 to 6732
5 shares
No. 1137 do. 566 to 570 5 shares
No. 1711 do. 6266 to 6270 5 (hare*
No. 2740 do. 7668 to 7672 5 (hares
20 (hares sent by the (hip friends, Capt. Ca!-
ver, td Norfolk.
The whole iflucd on the ift July, 1794, to
John Barker Church and accompanied with
powers of transfer to the Subscribers.
In the months of C£l >bcr and November
last they were forwarded to us by Fintlfay Ban
natyne and C». of London. Both of the ships
it appears from the public prints hare been
carried into the Weft-Indies by the French
and condemned, from which it is apprehended
the papers are Steps have been taken
to the improper transfer of the above
shares.
Gabriel Wood Co.
March 31,
Imported in the Jhip Pigou,
And for sale by John Norton, No. 116, South
Front-street,
Hyson
Hyson Skin ( T EAS
Young Hyson C
Imperial J
April 20. < ot f
For Sale,
TWO LOTS OF GROUND in Kensing
ton, on the south fide of Hanover-street,
containing thirty-fix feet ftl breadth and one
hundred and fiity-ftven and a half feet in
depth to a twenty feet alley For further in
formation enquire at No. 37, Arch-street.
March 18. eodtf
All persons who have any demands
Against the estate of John Finlay, deceased,
are requifted to exhibit their accounts proper
ly attefti'd on or before the 20th of May next —
and those who are indebted to said estate arere
quefted to make immediate payment to either of
the Subscribers.
ROBERT HENDERSON, > AimM n rators
JOHN M'CARA, j V
April 26.
Translations.
MEMORIALS, advertisements, epistolary,
and flother writings in French and En
glifb, undertaken by Samuel Chandler, A. M.
traiiflator of Le Moniteur, L'Obfervateur, Les
, Quatre Fils Aymons, L'Heroine Americain,
and many other French authors.
S. C. has been in the habit of compiling for
the most approved publications, & occasionally
attending where the hurry of bufinels may re
quire his immediate attendance.
Encouraged and aflifted by gentlemen of
abilities, he proposes publishing by fubferip
tion, a work in French and Englilh, by the
title of The American Speftator. The profpeit
u. may be fees at his lodgings, No. 67, Arch
ftreet.
April fj. t
Benjamin & Jacob "Johnson,
No. 147 Maiket Street, Philadelphia,
HAVE just received by the Connecticut and other
late arrival* from Liverpool, a general affort
mem of well cholen
Dry Goods,
For the ensuing Season, for sale on the lowed terms
tor calk or the common credit
A large eolleftion of Books at their usually mo
derate prices.
4th month, 35th, 1797, * tw&f4
To be fold at Public Vendue,
To the highest bidder, at the houfc of Mr.
William Evans, the sign of the Indian
Queen, in the city of Baltimore, on the 25th
day of October next, at 11 o'clock, A. M.
About seven thousand acres of land,
the property of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
lying between Reifter's-town and Westminster,
commonly called Little Winchester, (the turn
pike road runs through a eonfid«rable partjof
these lands) the trail begins about 17- miles
from Baltimore, within a few hundred yards
of said Reifter's-town, and extends to the dis
tance of about twenty-three miles from Balti
more, and lies on the main falls of Patapfico
river, from three to four miles thereon. Will
be fold in trafts of one hundred and fifty to
three hundred acre. There is a large propor
tion of meadow and wood land on eafih trait,
some of them highly improved, with excellent
buildings and fine grass.
ALSO,
A traft of seven hundred acres of
land, called Clover Farms, within live miles of
Bladenlhurg, esteemed very good for Grass.
Richard Ponfonby, of Bladenlburgh, will (hew
this land to any person inclined to purchase.
ALSO,
A trad of land ©f about three hun
dred and thirty acres, within about two miles
and a half o the President's house in the Fede
ral City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fine
high profpefl, fron which may be fcen the
city of Walhington, Bladenfburgh, Alexandria
and a part of George-town, and many miles
down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard Por.fon
by, of Bladenfburg, will also Ihew this land.
A liberal credit will be given for the greatefi
part of the purchase money, i'he terms will
be made known on the day of sale.
May 8 W3m
Georgetown Bridge Company.
Extraft of an atS passed by the Legislature of
the state of Maryland on the 29th December,
1791, entitled, "An aft for ere&ing a bridge
over Potowmac river.
'• And be it enaSed, that the said dire&ors or
any two of them Jhall and may require any sum
or fume of money in equal proportion from each
and every proprietor, as may from time to time
be neceflary for carrying on the building of said
bridge ; and after giving three months public
notice, it ihall and may be lawful for the direct
ors to sue for and rscover in the name of the
company such unpaid requisition, with all costs
and charges incidental thereto, and legal interest
thereon from the time the fame should have
been paid: And the negleft or refufal to pay any
such requifitioif after public notice {hail have
been given at least for three months in all the
newfpapersheiein before enumerated, shall have
the effect to forfeit all preceding payments made
on the thare or (hares so neglefled or relufed to
be paid to .the use and benefit of the company."
The above extrail is publiflied for the infor
mation of such of the stockholders as have not
complied with the requisitions heretofore made
—they are as follow : On the ift November,
1795, »o dollar*, on the 10th May, 1796, 40
dollars ; the 20th July, 1796, 40 dollars ;on
the ift September, 1796, 40 dollars, and on the
ift November, 1796, 60 dollars. Caution is
now giveß that after the expiration of the time
limited for the continuance of this advertise
ment (three months) the law will be carried
into rigid and complete effeft against all delin
quents.
By order of the Directors,
WALTER SMITH, Treasurer.
Georgetown, May 1, 1797. iaw3m
Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64, South Second-ftrect. (
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. a, for fa!e
—This Lottery will positively comrapnce
drawing the 29th day of May naxt—Checkbooks
for registering and examination in this, the City
o£ Washington, No. a, and Paterfon Lotteries,
now drawing, are kept—also information where
Tickets in Washington, No. a, and Patterfon may
be had—Tickets in th<i Schuylkill Bridge Lottery
for sale at ten dollars each, and as soon as ifiucd,
Tickctsin all the other Lotteries authorized by the
Legislature of thisilate will be for sale.
The lubfcriberfolicits the application of the pub«
lie a*d his friends who wish to fell bank (lock, cer
tificates, bills of exchange or note*, houses, land,
•kc.or to obtain money cn depefit of property.
IVILUAM BLACKBURN.
April 8. izw
DiVertimenti ;
Or,- Familiar Lessons for the
PIANO FORTE.
To which is prefixed,
A Ground for the Improvement of youßg PraSi
tioners;
COMPOSED by R. Taylor, music profeffor,
Philadelphia, published this day. price two
dollars, printed for the author, No. 96, North
Sixth-lireet, and fold at Carr's musical rcpofiteries
Philadelphia and New-Yoik, and Ormrod, No.
41, Chefnut-ftreet ; where may he had by the
fame author, a var'ety of fcriou3, comic and paf
aoral songs, rondo for forte piano, leSoa for two
performers on one inftrummit, &c. &c. &c.
May 16. wjt
r I ""HE holders of Robert Morris and John Ni-
J_ cholfan's notes and acceptances, deposited as
collateral feeurities for the engagements of Edward
Fax and JamcsGreenleaf, are requetlcd to
TAKE NOTICE
That the fubferibers, it the requelt and by the
authority of the holders of near nine tenths ol the
amount of the paper above alluded to, have receiv
ed from George Simpfon, Efq an alignment of the
trust under which the said notes and acceptances
are fccured, together with all the deeds and obli
gations thereunto attached—therefore any applica
tion tor sale of any part of said propertyi* to be
made to THOKIrtS W-FRANCIS,
HENRY PRATT,
JOHN MILLER, jun,
JOHN ASHLEY,
JACOB BAKER.
March 2. m&th'f
i
300 Dollars Reward.
WHEREAS ? certain Christopher F.Parnell,
failed from Bolton, on or about the 27th
of October last, in the sloop Union, with a valua
ble cargo, bound to Baltimore, but went off to
the Weft-Indies where he fold the vessel and
Cargo. On or about thefirft inft. he was appre
hended (as a fufpicionscharadter) in thistown,
and examined before fevcral magistrates, but
for the want of fufficient proof to detefl him
in his villany he was discharged.
The fall is, the said Parnell is a villain, and
i> attempting to defraud sundry persona to the
aipount of ao,ooo dollars.
He left this town about the l®th inft. he
rode in a chair (painted green ) drawn by a grey
mare, and went on the Newbefn ro:\d, but on
this fide Trenton, took the road of Fayetteville,
and moil probably is palling through the back
part of the state into the western countries.
JJe had when he left this town, upwards of
2000 dollars in gold, and about 7900 dollars in
bank notes.
Parnallis a small man, about 30years of age,
much pock-marked, and has long black hair,
remarkable small eyes, and has » down look
when spoken to.
Whoever will secure the said Parnell, and
the money he has with him, and give informa
tion to Benj.Williams of Baltimore, John Hogg,
Esq. at Hilllborough, to Mr. A. Jocelin, of this
town, orto the fubferiber, who is in pursuit of
the villain, ihall receive the above reward.
ABNER CRAFT.
Wilmington, (N. C.) April 26, 179 $
City of Washington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A laagnificentdwelling-houfe 20,c00 dollars,
3c caih 30,000, are 50, boo
1 ditto 15,000 & east 2,5,009 40,00©
1 ditto 15,000 & caih 15,000 3®, 000
I ditto 10,000 & cash 19,000 20,000
I ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & caih 5,c00 10,000
1 caih prize of 10,000
2 do. 5,000 each, are • 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,000
to do. 500 - - 10, son
00 do. 100 • - 10,000
aoo do. 50 - - io.ooi
400 do. 35 - 10,000
I,COO do, 3B - 20,000
15,000 do. 10 - 150,000
16,739 Prizes.
23,261 Blank*.
50,000 TickeU, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. 8- To favour these who may take a quan
tity of Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the la st drawn ticket, and the 30,000 tjie last
but on* :
And approved notes, securing payment in either
mcn«y or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received sot any number not less than 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of
the private buildings to be erected in the City of
Walhington—Two beautiful designs arc already
feleited for the entire fronts on two of the public
squares; from these drawings it is proposed to ereft
two centre and 'ourcorner Wildisgs as soon aspof
fible after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deiuflion of five per cent, will
be made to defray the neceflary expenses of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National Univeriity, to
be erected within the city of Walhington.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the
Prizes, are held by the President and two Dire<st
ers of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount of the lottery.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
,§, Tieketsmay be had at the Bank of Colum
bia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; ot Peter
Oilman, Boston : of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
and of Richard Wslls, Cooper's Ferry.
mwf
ror Sale,
At the Office of the Gazette of the United
States, No. 119, Chel'nut-ftreet,
The lafl Report of the late Secretary
of the Treasury ; being a brief history of the
state of financial eoncems of the United States.
The Proceedings of the Executive
of the United States refpeflmg the western in
furredlion : Containing many faiits and cir
cumstances no where else to be found. 50
cents.
The Letter of Mr. Pickering to
ourminifter in France. 37 1-1 cents.
An Account of the Receipts and
Expenditures of the United States for the year
>795-
A few copies of the volume for 1794 may be
had to complete setts,
D'lvernois' account of the Revo
lution in Geneva, 12 1-2 cents.
April 3. §
Mr. Pickering's Letter to Gen.
Pinckney.
A few copies of the above iotfrcfting paper,
may be had it the office of the Gazette cf the U
nited Stales.
my 13 S
TEAS.
A FEW (.hefts of Imperial, Hyson Skin and
Souchong Teas of a superior' quality for
sale at the fiore of the subscriber, the north
west corner of Market and Third-streets.
Patent Shot.
ALSO,
A large CELLAR to be let at a very low rent.
Enquireas above of RICHARD WISTAR.
April 29. ftu&tlum
For Sale,
At thi« Office,
No. 119 Che/nutftrtet,
A few copies of a late Report of a Committee
of the Seriate, on the fubjeit of the
GEORGIA LANDS.
March 13 §
Wanted to hire,
In she city os-Philadelphia nr neighborhcod,
A Malt-house and Brewery.
For further particulars please apply to the'
Printer hereof.
May
SWAN N'S
Riding School, f hrfc Academy isf Infirmary,
Adjoining the Public Square, Market Street.
Tt SWANN
R ETURNS his sincere thankt toihofe gentlemen by
whom he has been employed, during his refidencc in
this City, sod flatters himfelf that the success of bis
efforts, in the numerous, ebitinate and dangerous dis
eases in Horses, in which he has been eonfulted, to
gether with his moderate charges, will secure their
future favors and recommendation.
He now begs leave to inform them and the public
at large that his (pacious and commodious peemifes,
erefied for the purposes above de-scribed are open for
the reception of pupils of either lex, whowifhtobe
inftruitcd in the Art of Riding, and the right method
of governing their horses, so at to ride them with
ease elegance, and fafety—their horses will be care
fully and expeditiously broke, for every purjpofe,and
made obedient to he will of the riders ; the natural
powers whicn are shut up in them, will be unfolded
by art, calling forth uniformity-of motion, and giving
to that noblt animal all those beauties of action which
providence has lo bountifully bellowed on them.
Also, at his hospital. every disorder to which the
horse is liable will be treated according to the rules of
art, confirmed by long and repeated experience.
The utility of the above inftitutipn has never beerr
qnelfioned, that it has long been wanted in this city,,
every gentleman's flud will manifeft, and T. Sw /.xjt
as the (jideflablifherot theveterenary art, folicitt atid
icliet upon the fuppott of thai public (which he it
ever anxious in fetving) to enable him to bring'it to
perfe&ion. The idea of a fubfeription for 'hat pur.
pose hat beeu hinted by several gentleman, who-with
to promote the inftituiioo—the amount of each fub
feription to be returned by services in any of the de-
he protefTea, agreeable to the rate of charget
(fated in hi? hand bill. Suchfubfcription is now o
pen, and the Bgrutoret of many relpeQable gentlemen
already obtained. He therefore injorips his friends
and furh Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has not
the honor of being known, that he (hall in a few
days takethe liberty of waiting upoa them and falici
ting their support and protection.
N. B. HoiTesare properly prepared for thofc La
diesaad ®emlemenwho wish to be inflrufclrd.
Nov. 5. tth&f.
Chocolate and Mustard
Manufactured as usual,
Ginger and Fepptr ground
Shelled or Peat 1 Barley
Bhiladelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder
London Porter
Taunton and Barton Ale
Red Port and other Winei, eitbc bottle#,
or by the pipe, quarter-ca/k or gallon—fuitablc
for exportation or home consumption
For Sale by
John Haimrth.
No. 98 South Front street.
May 18 th^w
NOTICE.
IF JOSEPH WESSELS, formerly of London,
who came paflenger in the (hip Faftor, to
Philadelphia, in the year 1794, will apply at
No. 197 Market-street, he will hear of some
thing to his advantage. Any information re
fpe&ing him will be thankfully received.
May ii *
CLARET
OF THE
Vintage of 1792,
In cases of 14 and 30 bottles each,
FOR SALE BV
RUNDLE £5" LEECH.
March 19 mwftf
An excellent Stand for Bufiaefs,
With Stoii fuitablc thereto.
THE fubferibers, aflignees of Jol'eph Meif
fon, offer Sot fjle all the Hock of goods on
hand, lately belonging to said Meifi'on, conlift
ing of a groat variety of liquors, groceries, &c.
Any person wifting to engage in bnfmefs as a
grocer, will have an opportunity of purchafmg:
the whole of the retail ltore on reasonable terms,
and can immediately get pofijfiion of it, at the
corner of Strawberry alley and Chefnut-flreet,
which has been longknown as an excellent stand
for that line of business. If not fold in ten
days, the whole of that, with a large quantity
of wines, St. Croix and New-England rum,
&c. &c. will be put up to public auction.
For terms apply to
David Walker,
Wm. Buckley, or
Samuel Keith.
May 10 S
TO BE RENTED,
And may be entered upon at any time,
THAT forcibleand well improved water works
on Rrandywine, three miles from the town
of Wilmington, in the slate of Delaware;
CONSISTING OF
A large, convenient Slitting Mill,
In complete order, having several pair of rolls
and cutters of every lize.
A large, Stone Merchant Mill,
Having three pair burr stones, boulting works,
corn kiln and every other ne-ceflary apparatus.
A Saw Mill,
In the best order, and a pair of timber wheels.
A Smith's Shop and Tools.
To'accommodate th*fe works there is a large
commodious (tone dwelling house, kitchen and
wash house and a number of d welling house?
for workmen, with gardens adjoining ; two large
stone Habits, two llone coal houses, at id a coop
er's shop, with meadow and pasture grounds.
If the tenant chutes he may have the oppor
tunity to purchase an excellent te.m of five hor
ses, wagyca, coal carriages and bed, with a
flock of coal in the coal houses fufficten: to ma
nufaflure three hundred tons of iron.—Apply to
RUMFOKD to' ABIJAH DAWES,
No. 7, South Wa'.er-flrecJ.