of m and Philadelphia Daily Advertiser,
NUMBER 1580.]
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
Far DRY GOO 3S.
f Fcenoon —Edward l 7 ox, No. j6, t
M , ) fjtith Front-flreet, r
on a -~\ Afternoon —Footman & Co. No. 65 ,
' Soath Front-flr-jet. I
1" Forenoon—John Connelly, Old City
.. ) Auiflion, No 73 foutVi Front-street.
Huej ay< tarnoon —William Shannon, No.
(. IS3 High-ftrcet.
C Afternoon—Peter Benfon. No. 74
\ south I'hird-ftrcet. 1 ,
~ C Forbnoon—Edward Fox.
T-buiMy { Afternoon—John Con-elly. '
„ ) Forenoon—Will at* Shannon.
n J Afternoon'—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon —Peter Benfon.
For Freight or Charter,
TitVZ (TOTTO BRIG
S U K E Y,
"NOW lying at Clifford's whart,and in complsat
' «rder to receive a cargo. For terms please to ap
ply the Captain sn board, or
John Slyrin,
No-81, Arch-ftrect.
IVMO HAS FOR SALE,
2000 wt. of double refined Saltpetre
600 wt. of I' F Gun Powder
300' barrels of Herrings
50 bufcels of Timothy Seed
150 cafe' of Claret, fir!> quality
And a quantity of Sherry Wine,
pt. 19. dtf
HA V ANN A SUGARS.
FOR S'ALF.,
1400 boxes and eafk-s prime white Havan
na SUGARS,
Oi boaH 'He Qs-p Hauiburjrl Packet, Silas
Swain, Master, now lying at Marcus H.iok.
?cr *pj>*y to Capt. Swain, on board, to
Capt. Samusi. Smith, in Front, near Wal
nut 2reet, or to
Philip Nicllin, & Co.
Who offer the said Ship
Hamburgh Packet
SALE or CHARTER.
She is 3»o tons register, coppered to the bends,
fails remarkably fall, and taa be ready te re
ceive a cargo in a few days.
Sept. a 1. diw
Antigua Rum,
JUST arrived at Wilmington, Delaware
£tate, and now landing from on board the
A.'live, William Williams, Master,
One hundred hhds. 3d & 4th proof,
And for Sale by
Jehu Hollingfworth IsS Co.
Wilmington, Sept. si'. dtf
N. B. The above Brig,
and the brig GAYOSO, are
also for Sale or Charter, and
. now ready to receive a cargo
on board, at Wilmington Apply as above.
ior Savannah,
The fall failing ship,
SWIFT PACKET,
''j'lP ATß ' cx GftlßßlN, Jlafler,
Now lying opposite tb: mouth
Creek, has handfonfte accoinmoda
for passengers, and will foil on or about
*ie ill ef OAober.
Fo: freight or pasT ge apply to the mailer on
board, or of the fublcribers at Frinkford, 5 i-»
miles from Philadelphia.
Nalbro Iff J. Frazier.
FrankforH. Sept. iS. dttftO- _
For HAMBURGH,\
t-w-a r "I~'HE Copper Bottomed Ship
• j1 FA V O'RlTii, John
« H Thompson, Miller, now at
•i'"» Bright's wharf, and will be rea
y to take in on Monday next,
partofhercargobeing engaged
fnd ready to go on board. The snip is so well
known, that it if needlffs to describe Jier. She
is now in compleat or.der. For Freight or Pas
sage, please to applv at Mr Jeremiah Warder's
Compting House. No. 11, North Third llreet,
or to the Master on bord.
Aiiguft 30.
For SALE,
Oh board the said Ship, Swedish Iron, afTorted
Hollow and Window Gtafs, Demyjohns, Wrap
ping Paper for Sugar Refiners, Hugs of I & a
Quality. Please to apply as above.
\vf&m4W
FOR SALE,
BRET AGNES in cases
German Checksin do.
Cambrick
Plattjllas
OzMlirigs
Cold and Giver Watches
Window Glufs loby 8
Glass Tuml'lersin eases
Liafeed Oilili caflcs, &c. &c.
George Pennock,
103, Hith-Streit,
Jul? 5-
An elegant House in Arch Street.
TO be lejt and entered on immediately a large
■ atid elegant house at the Corner of Arch and
ft Ninth Street. There are two dr.-Hving rooms
■ and one dining room—the largest is 31 feet by
B t —and two are so conne<Sed by folding doors
to make but one. Also, five bed rooms, be-
I fides 5 in the garret, well timihed for servants.
V There are ftablcs and a coach house, with evry
I convenience for a family. Enquire at No. 29,
[ in North Seventh flrcet, or at No. jiß, Arch
Street.
I Aug. 15. aa^j%.
I Chocolate and Mustard
Manufaiflured as usual,
• Ginger and Pepper ground
Shelled tor Pearl Barley
Bhiladetphia Porter, tleer, Ale and Cyder
London Porter
Taunton and Button Ale
Red Port and other Wines, eithe bottled,
or by the pipe, quarter-cafic or gallon —suitable
for exportation or home consumption
For Sale by
"John llaivorth.
No. 92 iouth Front ftre t,]
PHILADELPHIA.- MONDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 2, t? ;-.
The Parrnerfliip,
U NDER the f:rm of FR?.EMaN Iff Company,
is uiiTolveil l>y mutual content. All persons
having Any JcniamU ag in ft tUefaui House are dt- i
fired to render the fane to T. B. Freeman ; and c
thoi'e indebted to defired to make pay- f
meat to him—By whom bufineft will in future be f
Augtijl 7. ]
Young Hyson Tea. J
40 chests of a superior quality—<lljp,
iqo do, of Hyson, I
Imported in the IVoodrop Sims, inn for falo by -
the iubferiber, corner of Second and Pine
flreet.
C. Haight.
J\ineai.
Imported in the Jhip Pigou, <
Aad for sale by John Morton, No- 116, South 1
Front-street,
Hyson * }
Hyson Skin (cE AS
Young Hyson (
Imperial J
April 20. eorf
~Th« Norfolk Mail STAGE.
'T'HH Stage starts frotp the GEORGE. Tavern,
Jl at the corner of Second and Arch Street*, in
Philadelphia, every Tutfiay, ThutfJaj, and Satur
day, at 3 o'clock, in the irorniiig ; arrives at I'o-
Vr the fkft day, at Showhill the I'eccud day. at
Northampton Court House the third day, and 011
the morning of the fourth day t! e paffengeri find
a fife and •omfertabie packet to convey tham to
Nor folic.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton feiry,
every Tuesday, Thurfiay and Saturday, and the
Stage ftirts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
' Monday, Wodnefday and Friday ;!put« up at Snow
I-fill thefirft night, at Dover the 2d night, and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day.
The distance #n this rout*, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, it *0 miles lt->t!ian on any stage route
between thofc places.
Too much cannot he said in favor of the road,
which is most excellent indeed. The proprietors .
willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
palTengcr, who, after having performed this route,
will fay that ht ever travelled in a stage for the fame
distance, so good a road in America. (
Awguft 11. dim.eotf..
This Day Publiftied,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of
Second and Chefnut streets,
Price 3-Btin 0/ a Dollar,
Qbfervalions on certain Documents
Contained in No.V and VI of
" The History of the United State* for
the year 1796,"
In which the charge or speculation against
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Seciitakv of the Treasury, is FULLY
REFUTED.
WRITTEN Br HIMSELF.
This publication presents a concise llatement
of the base means pra&ifed by the Jacobins of the
United States to asperse the characters of thole
perfous who are considered as hostile to their disor
ganizing schemes. It also contains the cor
refpendence between Mr. Hamilton and Messrs.
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venab'e, on the fub
je A of the documents alorefaid, and a series of let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr.Ha
milton, proving btyond the poJßbdity of a doubt,
that the ccnnciflion between him and Reynolds,
was the result of a daring confpiraey on the part
of the latter aad hi* affuciates to extort money.
A d»fc»u»t of one third from the retail price
will be made in favor o{ wholefaic purchafcrs, for
eash. Orders to hf: addreiltd ta Mr Yo»no.
Augutt 2s.
~ No. 188. ~T~
Dijlncl of Pexnfylvan'ta, to wit :
, . \YE IT RIiMhMBER'ED, that on the
_l) twenty sixth day of July, in die twen
ty second year of the independence of the United
States of America, Jon* Penno, of the fiid dif
triisl,h.'"» depoCted in this office the title of a book,,
the right whereof he claims as proprietor, in the
vttords following, to wit
" OKervations on certain documents contained
" in No. V. and Vl. of " The Hillory of the Unit
" ed State? for the year 1796," in which the charge
" of speculation, againll Alexander Hamilton, late
" Secretary of the Treasury, is fully refuted—
•' Written by himfelf "
In conformity to tha aA of the Congrefa of the
Ucited States entituled, " An ail for the encour
agement of learning, by securing the copies of
maps, charts and books to the authors and propri
etors of such copies, during the times therein men
tioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk 9/ the DiJlriEl of Ptnpf*W>aniM»
Jn'y 37. W4W
Mrs. G RATTAN
INFORMS her friends,and the public in general,
that her house, No. 19a, Market-ilreet, will con
tinue open during the fieknef*.
Bcterd and Lodging in a fcparate room, ten
dollars, in a double room, eight dollars.
For the convenience of thof: gentlemen who
have not their Jamilics in town, Mrs. ©rattan
will receive gentlemen to dine at half a dollar
a day. ' —6t
Imported in the latest arrivals from
Amflerdam and Hamburg, and for sale by
B. & J. Bohlen,
A large ajfortmcnt of fine French Cambrics,
j Platillas Rtiflia indDutch sailcloth
B r ittannias Writing, poll, and print
s Rouanes v ing paper
Brown Holland Dutch calf lkins
s Checks apd llripes Prime madder
Ticklenburgs Shell'd Barley
Looking glades
' White (heetings Hollow glass ware
' Diaper Slates
1 Brown rolls Coffee mills
Umbrellas , Brass kettles
. Hair riblyms Scythes and draw knives
Black and whitelaces Tovs afiorted in fyoxes
Btft Holland Gih'in pipes
London particular Madeira Wine
July 24. myithtf
r Cedar Shingles.
THE fultferiber has a fjuaptity of .3 feet Cedar
Shingles cf a superior quality, for sale at 13
e dollars p--r thousand.
William Hallowell,
No. 193 North Third-jlreet.
Jdya;. eout
By John Fenno, N°- 119 Chefnut Street
G USTO M-HOU S T.,
PBUddpoUi, S<ft'%id, 1797.
THE Mnehauts who at this time prefer ha— r
in<r their vefieb and Merchandise er.twed sod
cleared at Chester or Mircu* Hock,—nre here- ha
by r.otifijd, That in ccropliance with their de- te
fire, and upon a full convlfl-on that the mealure tc
will be mutiiajly beneSc'al to them and to the C(
Vnited States. The c lleflor of tl.e cuHomstuis "
made arrangements to oftaMl■ r fene time j"
brniK-hea of the cuflom-houjipiSi thofj places,
where every accommodation in his power will 1
be given to merchants. djw ,y
TO BE SOI.D, v.
And imSnediate pojfrffion giv*-n,
well nniditd Brick I
with a cook house and other out house?, situ- j.
atcd iu a pleasant part of the borough of Wilming- .'
ton, in the State of Delaware—The lot of ground
has forty sect front on WefMrcet, and extends
through the square to Pa(ture-ftreet, on v hich is I'
creeled a liable aod cartiaflp honfe.
ALLEN M'LANE. °
Wilmington, Aug. 70. t -
Lately Published, i
In One vol. S vo. (price one dollar in boards) fold 0
by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of Second and '
Chefnut Crcets,
A Colleftton of Pap|rs on the fubjeft of f
Billious Fevers, prevalent in the United
States for a few years pad.
Compiled by NOAH WF.BSTER, jun.
Containing letters from Do&ors SeaiTian, Sitiith,
Eael, Taylor, Ramsay; Monfon, Reynolds, Mitch
ell, mi contagioH, &c. &c. I
!->-* If. <t
j .
City Commifftoners OJJiec,
August 29, 1797.
IN purfuaneg of an Ordinance df the Seleil and
Conuv.on Councils, puffed the nd day of May lad. <
I'ropofal. in writing will he receiv dhy the City 1
CumnnOioßers for one month fron\ the Ift of Sep- }
tember next, for letting to rent 011 leases for o«e i
year to commence the nrft dnjr of Janiaiiry next, the (
following public property of the city— j
The wharf and landing on Vine Street,
Also on SaffafraF, r
Mulberry, £
And High Streets, I
Chefnut and Walnut Streets, Braw sridge, with 1
th# Scale and Fi(h Houses, Spruce, Pine and Cedar r
Streets. .' 1
The cellar under the City-Hall. <
The Tavern at the middle ferry on Schuylkill, c
with the lots contiguous thereto, (except so much f
thereof as (hall be occupied by any buildings ereil
ed for the use of the Colle&or of the Tolls, or be
necessary for the toll-gates.)
Ang. ? 3tawim,
LOST,
ON the Paffyunk Road, between the Bine Ball J
and the city, a Fowling Piece, with a brass
bai rel and silver fight ; on the plate of the butt are
the letters " Jamaica, 99"— and on the barrel
near the lock '• Lqndon" and the Tower (lamp. ,
Whoever will returtithe .aid piece to "John Bennard, ,
atthefign of the. Blue Ball on the Paffyunk Road,
or the office of this Gazette, shall receive a reward
of Four French Crowns, ,
ficpt. 11. # 3t
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given,
■"pHAT agreeably to an ad of Cr.ngrefs ef the
Jl United States of Amuriea, pafled - t Phila
delphia, tke a3th day of May, 1796 ; laying du
ties on Carriages, for the conveyance of persons,
which {hall be kept by or for any person, for hi*
or ber own nfe, or to let out to hire, or for the
conveyance of paffergers, the fcveral duties and
rates following, to wit :
For and upon every Coach, I J dols.
upon every Cl*ri"t, 11 dols.
upon every Pod Chariot, la dols.
upon every Post Chaise, l» do!-,
upon every Phaeton, with or without top,
9 dols.
upon every Coachee, 9 doK
upon otherCarripcrej, having pannel wotk
above, with blinds, glafiet or curtains,
9 dols.
upon f»ur wheeled Carriages, having fra
med pods aad topi with steel fpring-s, 6
dots.
upon four wheeled Carriages, with wood
r iron fprinj\or jo« » 3 dols.
i»pon Curricles with top«, 3 dols.
upon Chaifeswith tops, 3 dols.
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols.
upon other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carriages, wyih steel or
iron springs, 3 doU.
For and upon all other two wheel carriages, 2 dols.
upon every four wheeled cirriage, having
framed polls and tops, and rcfling up
on wooden spars, a do's.
The Colledlors of the Revenue for the firft Sur
vey of the Diftriil of Pennsylvania, will attend
daily, until the 30th day of September o-xt, for
the purpose of receiving the duties on Carriages, at
' Germantown ;at the house of £>aniel
in the County of Montgomery; and at the houle
of James Chapman, Esq. in the County ps Bucks ;
of which all persons possessed of such Carriages are
desired to take notice.
Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dis
tilled spirituous liquors, that licences will V e grant
ed to them; one licence for carrying'on the hufi
nefs of retailing of Wines, in a less quantity} or
in less quantities than thirty gallon*—and one li
cence for carrying on the business of retailing Spi
rituous liquors in lofsquantities thatt jo gallons, at
I the fame time and at the fame plates, by the ofSc
-1 crs legally authorised to grant such licences.
. . WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpedlor of the Revenue of the firll fux
vey of tlft: Diflri&of Pennfylvatria.
Office of Infpeiftion »t "> ( j Jm
Germantow. nth Sept. t7>?. j
I MPOR r E p
fit the .(hip America, James Ewinr, mailer, from
Hamburgh,
Brown Hollands
White Platillas
Ticklenburgs ,
Coarse Linens
Tapes
FOR SALE *Y
George Pennock.
Aiign/i T4* _
r Act laying Duties on Stamped Vellum,
Parchment and Paper.
' A FEW copies of the above a,s> may be tad at
th- Office of tho Gaie-* of Uuitsd States, No
119, Cftefuut-ftreet. J"'y i
To BE SOLT),
And immediate poiL-iuou given,
' I -lc;; ir.t fear,called BLoOtvlc-bUv.Y the
.L refricr.cj of tlse late Jon n C'oa; ) t-t with a- "1
bout 5C acres -.f l.anii, fi(u-.te on thelJ- hwar.?, ex- J
tendir.|j from the month ol Afiaujiir^rrei,' . i ren- v
ton Lrry. The maid'.oti h;uf, ij a veil !
ccnftrucled brick builimg, 50, By 43 f'jet, cntain- B
ing four room (In e.ich floor , with excellent cellars, E
and .*1 rm.y 'lldry brick l.irtieo. Amocg the .cut E
buildings arf: j (.one c»:.c!i r.tv.: in■ i ■-» . sets- !:■
ficici.t t* contain lis-.rtiaget add ten, borfts, L
a Uouc cow I .-i'.ll. upvvur<l»of 100 sect 111 length. >'
There is also a (tore i'lr.n house with corn cribs, L
w>ggon house, iStc. Sec. The whole of t'ne prctni. .
fes propofed'to be fold with this feat, from tbeir fit 6- r
atinn and improvements, are such as to be worthy /
the attention of any gentleman wifljJnw to retire C
from the-city. Thtre arc >lfo abrut 25 acre* ad- <t
joining the above, which will be d : vided so as to V
accommodate the purch'afcrs. Also, iot acres ad
joining the town lpts onthc-tfaft fide of the ftteet
I .adir.g from Trenton to I.amberton. which will
be (old together or in lots, as may Left foil the pur
chaser, aHd ijo acres of.woodlandi two miles from
the above laud, whsi will also be divided if re
quired. The termj of payment will be made easy, C
and an indisputable title given. For further purti- 1
culvrs enquire of Mrs. Cok.No. 144, South Fourth S
street, Philadelphia, John Steven*, Efq Hobte- u
ken, M.ithias Barton, Ef<J. of Lancalier, tr the
fubferiber at Trentdn. f>
MASKELL EWING. u
Trenton, Sept. 25, 1797.. '■
Sept. 30. <»r. p
, Sundry Lots
IN the following Sqiaarrs in the City of Wa!hing
ton wi.ihe expofud !• Public Salk, by thefub
fciribcrt, on the second Monday in Oilober next,
at the Little Hotel, in the said City, to com
mence at IS o'clock :
Square Ni>. 31, 4s, 43. 44, 47.
66, 67,68, 69, TO, 73.74,75, 76, 77, 73, 79, lot .
10a los.iiil, 119, 1 ao, 141, 65,56, 84, IC4, 87,
88, 89, i®j, 114, ISS, 120,' 61, t66, 80, 103,
square eaflfof fqusre 87,fqu^refouth of square 104,
fquaie p.orthof fquircßr, square east of lquare SB,
fquara north of square 118.
These I.otb are advautageoufly fttuated in the.
neighborhood of the President's Square, and deem
ed equal in value t,o any in the city, and will be
peremptorily fold ; clear and valid titles will b«
made to the puichafer, oa feccipt of the purchufc
moneyv Terms of sale, are, good notes, negotia- '
ble at the Bank of Columbia, one fourth part in :
one month, cne other fourth in three months, one J
other fourth in five months, and the remaining one
fourth in seven months.
WILLIAM DEAKINS, jun.
URIAH FORj<EST. '
Sept. 41. dts !
At the Federal Blast Furnace, i
In Carvers—for Slitting, Platting, and Rolling j
Mills. (
SEYMOUR'S Patent Rollers.
THEIR superiority confijis in being free from "
holes and honey-combed places, ivbich are com
monly found in rollers cajl in sand, or clay
moulds. These patent rollers are cajl in iron
moulds, prei'ioujlr heated, and will be found to
be more dense, solid and durable than any rollers
heretofore used. Another important advantage
theyl have over others, is, that the necks require
no turning, but are immedaitely fit for life, and
from their accuracy, run with less fiiHion, and
require iefs water to make tl*m perform tbeir
work. They t7Uiy be h/ld by'application to the
Patentee in Plymouth of Gen. Nathaniel Good
win, or of,Meffrs. Thatcher and Hay ward
Bcf.ea, Aug. 31.
Sept. 19. »s6f.
~ A I E S O N,'
WJTH an intention to render service, and unde- ]
ceivc those Performers, who during his absence Mr/:
Jiymond ha-, thought proper to rngage, t'ninl-- it
v. jtdd be wrong in him not to inform thrift that
are engaged, that itiswithou his approbation,and
that he will not be in any way ai.fvverable for r
engagements.
PHILIPPE LAILSON.
At;x\indrii. Sect. 15, I7V 6t.
The SUBSCRIBERs,
. A*SICNEES OF JAMES GREENLEAFj
HEKEUV give notice, that thev have disposed
of the property adigned to them tor the securing
the payment of the note-, acceptances, 1111! tn
dorfements given by Kdward Fox, for the use
ofthe fttid James Greenleaf 1 and the.hidders of
lach notes, acceptances, and emlorfemeits, are
hereby notifyed that the fublcribers will faitle
with them for the ambunt of their refptdlive
claims, both principal and isTfitfST, at
any time before the 2cth d*y of Odlober next;
after * hich dav, the holders not applying, will
be excluded, agreeably to the terms of align
ment. '
Applications to be made at south east corner
of Dock and Second streets (the Dock-ftr" l
fide), between the hours of eleven and one o'
clock every day, Sunday.'- excepted.
Henry Pratti
Tho. IV. Francis,
John Milter, Jun.
'John Afhtey,
Jqcob Baker.
Philadelphia, Atigttft 18, f797- ?L
just publillied,
• And to be fold at the Beokftores of H. 15 P.
Rice, No. 50, Market-ilreet 1 J. OrmrotJ,
No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet, and W. Yoiing,
t corner of Chefnut and Secnd-fu eets,
■ An accurate System of Surveyings
IK WHICH >S eONTaINTD,
1. Decimal fradlions, in a plain, concise,
and easy manner. '
2. The extraction ©f the square root.
3. Plain trigonometry, 'redlangular and ob
lique. •
4. An exa<2 method to call up the eoutents
i of lands.
5. Field surveying.
The whole being performed without the u&
of frale and compafies, on a table of logarithms.
In which is given some acci tint of the variation
of tire needle, and the caiifes of its attra«flion.
By SAMUEL MQORE.
Auguftj. sawaw
WINOoW GLASS,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than my other in
, iheCitv —
OF VARIOUS SI'AES,
' From Bbv 6 t-> '<l by 1 4.
By the single Box or Qu uiii'y. m»«.be bad at the
ftplc of the Sub'.ctibers, coiner of Aicli and Fiont
o " f " ' Jaws C\ Samuel W. Fijher.
"|h»l'-«>e»S*t«» J ;,;c 9> '79 "■
Thomas HermAh LeOffer,
Ncrth Jif:h flttjet, cr.ifier of lirrth alley, No. 3^4,
HAS FOR SA£E,
rid Bourdeuux Wine :n caiVs sfo4
_*_» b< xes. 6at years old
A V h«*e Crave* Wine In c.flos
TicHerhiJT£->
RufTia Hail Cloths
■ Raven r, Duck
Bag Liacn
& . ;v, ... || $
Die per aiui TubleCloch
Fjnpty Sag#
v • ..• !■»")on German Cioth
aiTortment of black coloured Ribbon*
fine Germ in Laces
About twelve tons Ktifiia clem Hemp
Clover .Seed
kalian Soap, in boxc*« for family uje
Window Glass -Aug 23. —lavr
THIS DAY WAH
And for (ale hv 7HQM/!S DOBSON, at the
Stone Hoyfe, No. ai, i'outh Second (11-cet,
* EVENINGS at HOME ;
OR, ( HE JUVENILIS BUDGET OPENED.
Confiding of a variety of IVlifeellanecu* Piec*»for
theinftru.il ion and ctnufement of YOUNG PER
SONS —SixVolumeshandfomcly printed and bound
up in two volumes, price Two Dollars.
The variety and excellence of the fa piece 9 are
such, that the book weeds .only to be known to he.
univeifally esteemed one of the most valuable pub
lications th t can be put ir«:o liic hands'* of ;oung
persons.
" Delight i .fk to rear the tended tjionght,
To teach the youfcg idea how ti> (hoot,
1 o pour tl s irefii inftru&ion o'er the mind,
To breathe th* enlivening fpint,and to fix
The generous purpose in the glowing
Thomson.
August 24. mwf^wr
" THIS is published, •
By THOMAS DOBSON\ at the Stone House,
No. 41, south Second street.
Letters and Conversations,
Between ftvtral Young Lalitt, on improving and
tereliing fubje^ls.
Translated from the Dutch of Madame dc Gt/mbon
with alterations and improvements,
Printed on jive paper, and neatly bcuttd,
Price one dollar.
AMIDST the tide of modern Romances,
tales ef extraordinary distress, or of desperate or
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," and
which it would be for the honor of young ladies «>
V>e ignorant of, this little book comes forward to so
licit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds of real life, the proper, l>e«raf*
elegant and natural dignity and importance of the Female
cbarcP.tr is exhibited in an interesting point of view,
andprcfents examples of real and attainable excel*
lencc.
The publiAer was fomuch pleafedwith the pertj»
sal, that he was persuaded he Ihould do a plcafin j
service to the community by fending it into circu
lation. AufruCi 24 —ir.w4w
To MaJUrs and Pilots bringing up VeJJiff
from Foreign Ptrls to this City.
T T THereas sundry infringements have lately been
W made on the laws of this slate for the pre
venting pestilential or infe&ious diseases, either
from ignorance or inattention thereto, it is tho't
expedient at this time to publilh the following ex
tracts from the laws of lid April, 1794, 7th and
Bth sections.
HEALTH-OFFICE.
June 6th, 1794.
Extract of an acl for /rearing the city and pQjri
qf Philadelphia from the introduction of pesti
lential and contagious diseases.
Sect. 7. And be ic further enaAed, that every
matter or captain of any {hip cr veflci coming from
sea (vcU'els a&ually employed n the coasting trade
excepted) and bound to any port or place within
the jurifdi&ion of caufe hisfhip
or veflci to be brought to anchor, or Ctheirwife flay
e l in the dream of the river Delaware, oppofits to
the Health-Office on StaU-Ifland nforefaid, and
there to remain until he shall have duly obtained a
certificate or bill of heal h from the RcUdent Phy
sician. And it, prcvioyfly to obtaining such certi
ficate or Kill of health, any Matter or captain (ball
fufTer hisfhip or veflelto approach nearer than the
fyid Health-Office to the city of Philadelphia, or
caufe or fuller to be landed, cr brought
on (bore, at any place or port within this Com
mfrnwealth, or at any other port cr plaA, with thfc
inteßt of being conveyed into this Commonwealth,
any person fr persons, any goods, wares or mer
chandize, cr, if after r.ceivirg such bill of health
or certificate, he lhall ncglccl or refufe to deliver
the lam" to the Health-Oificef, such matterot csp
tain sfiiall forfeit a*>a p -y, for each and every fuck
ofiVnce, tiie sum of. five hundred dollars.
And the captain or master of every (hip or vef
i fel Ibali fend a fafe and commodious boat to bring
* the phyfictan on board, and (hall in like manner
conv y him back to the Health-Office, after he haa
* concluded his official examination ; And while he
; is making such examination, or in rase any fubfs
' quetit examination by the Health Officer or Con
futing Physician, rfgreea-bly to the dire<sli&ns oE
thi- the- mailer qr captain fhaUexpole or caulc
to bcexpofed to thefearch of the Rcfident Phyfi
cian,or of the Health Officer and Consulting Phyfi
eian (as the cafe may be) each and every part of ths
sKip or velTel, and (hall present to his view each
and every perfen or persons on board thereof, aad
and shall also true and fatisfa&orv anfwtrs make
to all luch questions as the Rcfident Physician, f
at the time of examination shall ask relative to the
health of any pert or place fr#m wliich the Ihip or
' vefi'el failed, cr has fmce touched at—the nun>ber
' of persons on board when the ship or veffcl entered
' on her voyage —the nuwiber ol persons that have
fmce been landed or taken on board, and when
j and whererefpectively—what persons on board; —
f been during the voyage, or shall, at
the time of examination, be infedted with any pet
* tilential or contagious disease-—and what is die pre
sent slate and condition cf the persons on board
with refpc& to their health or dil'eafes And if
any mailer or captain shall refufe to cxpofe as afore*
aid, to the search of any of the officers aforcfaiJ,
* n if he (hall conceal ar.y Jfd ferfujt, or in any otbtr man
ner deceive the prefer officers aforcfaid in v : s an finer r,
uch captain or mafter,for every such offence, fnali
e forfeit aud pay the sum of five hundred dol
lars.
n Sect. 8. And if asy person or persons whatfo
u ever (the Resident Physician, Sec. excepted) lhall
I tro on board any vcilel, bef&re malicr. thereof
I has received a certificate of health in the manner
iireiled, every person so offending, shall pay the
um of ONE 111NDRED DOLLARS
IT abfolutely necefTary that tho foregoing
felons fiiould be pun dually con-plied wit the
fubferibtr, m compliance with his duty, mull cx
ke a6l a rigorous obft rvar.ee of the f ir.ie, cr tli'e be
d ~ urxier tlia neeelTuy of putting i;i force.
VV m . All! M, IJjcUh OJficer of
P<jf t if 2 biludsipbiii.
July ' fyy
i/;n XIIivsisn / .vs rbN Loytnkr, %v. it.
List of Prizes and 'Bl^vks.
1 z6lh day's Drawing! -Sept. 16.
A'o. Doh. JSo. Dels. ho. Dois. No. Dols.
J'O! 1,»65S *.5594 30 30896 /
s-97 A6l 659 337
174 684 74$ tfo L
391 :o 7C4 26601 10 3/04 1 10
A' 4 738 716 .10 ■' 164 25
. (it S 14078 27U3 41018
I.'®.-4 . S°J 6i 7
899 035 28145* 19 ic
j?"6 a'»s 379 10 415
.*M4 (lb 492 S 49-
9:9 16188 10 690 85,7
40 c * 358 30344 4we6
087 941 380 89
153 965 715 43-41
J99 17 199 10 769 67s ic
914 10 3J3 10 31087 ' 9 J 7
473 216 44°j8
341 50S 59 1 837
784 1803S 31018 10 9'£9
6304 200 10 317 20 996
445 455 45.7 43066,10
BS7 10. 19363 50 659 48a
.9-1 796 a? 33110 711
)i8; 2'2iß ro 636 902
467 373 10 3449 T ° 46636
771 410
*456 10 21J35 . 973 759
9849 226 324 10 273
9C5 328 45' 10 647 30
16193 10 332 306 48174
745 23 43129 10 710 lo 720
592 10 714 'o 764 10
f);o 10 903 20 807 49424 10
11911 24310 xo 834 93°
12125 405 365P3 935
319 Rrt ß 37J41
758 10 8.12 637 10
127 th day's drawing—September 18.
f>4 11014 23654 38385 10
143 '35 *7.' 585
415 869 25? » 39990
600 12281 27061 40157
7°9 339 *97
878 13041 -549 10 499
911 270 567 42047
1407 14867 29918 43°24
22ij 889 10 942 10 057
B'>o 15318 30937 10 172 xo
3362 10 345 3'4oi 189
515P 895 10 671 889 10
907 16579 974 9"
6177 982 3* ot s 4443*
258 17281 312 lO 450
7254 20 310 471 »o 558
161 10 394 33148 984
650 851 10 3*039 10 453c8
8477 18390 le 3549* 461)5
507 10 19439 3/33'j 3JB i«
537 10 593 10 729 8 20
970 41088 958 47686
9610 ,6iß • 977 10 48534
754 ''6s 38107 873
Sjo ro 2tc">B 311 49^*8
Eleßors of Soutbwarif Moyamenfmg, and
Paffyitnk.
THE General EJeflion will be held at the Com
miftioners' Hall, in the of Southwark, at
the house lately oecupicjl by Mr. Samuel Goff, at
the corner.of i'ifth and Christian ftreeti, near the
PafTyunk road. OS. 1.
' Public Notice is hereby given,
THAT tke Commifiloners for the nift,ri6t of
Soufhwark have removed thrir hall to the houfa
formerly cccupied by Samuel Goff, in Christian at
the corner of FifA street. Oft. 2.
THE MAYOR'S OFFICE ~
IS KEPT, FOR TBI PRESENT, AT THE
CITY HALL.
. c «ft ?. •
A Stated Meeting
OF the Pennsylvania Society, for promoting
the Abolition of Slavery, &e. will be held at the
ufualphce, on Second Day next, the 2d of the
>oth Month (OOnber) at 7 o'clock in the even,
ing. BENJAMIN KITE, Sec'ry.
9th Month, i7Q'J-
The Members of the Society
For the relief of poor, diftrefled masters of (hips,
their widows an 1 children, are desired to attend at
a Quarterly meeting, on Monday, the 2d day of
October, 1797, at the Carpenter's Hall, in the
Court going up to (he old United States Bank, at
fix o'clock in the evening.
Sept. 31.
M E D I C I NES.
OF every kind. n«ctffary for the Cck ; slfo, Sa
go, Barley, and Oatmel. for diet drink, will be
delivered gratis, during the present contagion, to
thvfe who arc unable to pay for it, at rfi)»TE«'j
Laboratory, No. 114, South Second Street.
~Tvf:E DXc rN ES.
THE Poor who may ur.d it inconvenient, from
distance, to make use of Mr. Hunter's truly me
ritorinju offer, will be supplied with medicine*—
sago, barley, oatmeal, Ac. by ap-lying at tlie
fubferiber's (tore. No. 36, Market-street.
ROBERT S. STAFFORD.
The Health-Office
IS remorrd to the City-Hall, and i» kept open
night and day, where persons having bnfin- ft may
apply. Wan. ALLEN, Health-Officer.
Sept. 4. dtf
NOTICE.
THE Office* of the Dejfcrtment of War are for
the present removed near to the Falls of the*Scuyl
kill, on the Ridge Road.
September 4. dtf
Bank of North America,
September Bth, 1797.
Monday next the Notice, for all Notes er
VJ'Bills payable at thisßank,which fall due on that
and the ensuing 6 days, will be served on the Pay
el's: And the like Notices on every Monday, till
the further orders of thr, Dire&ors.—Perfons wi(h
ihg to deposit N»tes or Bills for ColleSion, which
jire to fall due within the week, must themftlves
Undertake to give notice to the Payers. dtf
Insurance Company of the State
of Pennsylvania.
THE Office will be kept until further notice
the Srfiool Hoyfc in The
Crtmpiny still retain the room in Chefnut, above
Seventh street, where a perlon will attend to re
ceive and give anlwers to applications, svery day
from lo until 1 o'clock.
Sept 13. d3t2awtf
Red Port Wine.
Just arrived, by the brig Iris, capt Rhodes, from
Oporto,
Red Port Wine in piped, hhds. and quarter caflcs
6c. cwt. Cork, for sale by
Philips, Cramond, & Co.
f(TM~SOLD VERT CHEAp r
A Light W GGON almost new, with a frame—
and a pair of harpefs ■( English collars) has never j
been used—price 90 Dolls. ;
A Horse 16 hands high, ftven years old—and a >
new chair, with a falling top and harness 320. j
Enquire No. 331; Market-ftrcct j
: Augufla4- Iw
Xije (gazette.
' PHILADELPHIA,
MONDAY EVENING, October 2.
At a meeting of a number of the citizens
of Philadelphia, held at the Union School
House in G ;rm?.ntown, on Saturday, the.
30th day of September, 179" >—
It was agreed unanimously, to recom
mend the following gentlemen as suitable
charafters to fill tlje offices which precede
their refpettivc names :
Member of the Senate of the Jlate of Penn
sylvania, for the diftriß composed of the
city and county oj Philadelphia and county
of Delaware :
Benjamin R. Morgan.
Members of the House of the
City of i hilitdetphia.
George Latimer Robert Wain
Jacob Hiltzheimer Lawrence Seckel
Joseph Ball Francis Gurney.
Members of the Sfletl Couutil of the City of
Philadelphia :
Godfrey Haga Henry Pratt
James Read Franyis Gurney.
Members of the Common Council of the City
Of Philadelphia.
Matthias Saddler Michael Keppele
James Todd Walter Franklin
Thomas Parker, Thomas Allibone
Geofge Pennock James S. Cox
Edward Pennington,Henry Drinker, Jun.
Henry Wharton, Caspar W. Morris
Joseph Hopkinfon Thomas P- Cops
Thomas Greeves Levi Hollingfworth
Conrad Gerhard Lawrence Herbert
Gk'eon H. Wells George Fox.
Published by order ps the Meeting,
HENRY PRATT, Chairman.
JOHN HALLOWELL, Sec'ry,
m
Two vcflels havejuft arrived from Bo.ir
deaux. The one has had a long passage—.
pafiage of the other not known.
MR. fenvo,
In your paper of last evening, I read a
paragraph of furpriling mortality at the
house ps Job Whitall, at Red Bank : it 1
appears from the account there given, that
they all died on the 25th instant, which is
not correft, and at the house of Job Whit
inftead of James Whitall, which mistake
I think it proper to correft.—James Whit
all's wife died the 22d instant—his son Job
the 13th —grandson the 19th —and grand
daughter, Sarah Whitall, the 20th, aged
19 years, whose early loss is deeply felt by
her numerous friends and acquaintance ; for
in her were centered, in an eminent degree,
all those virtues which ornament the fait sex.
Nrw Jersey, Sept. 27, 1797. G.
1
The following summons, couched in the
true French style, was sent two or three
years ago, to the governor of Bencoolen,
an English settlement in the Eaft-Indie6.
IN THE NAME OF THE
FRENCH REPUBLIC.
The citizen lean Marie Renaud, com
mander in chief, of the naval forces of the
French republic, to the eastward of the Cape
of Good Hope,
To THE GOVERNOR OF BeNCOOLF.N.
I fend you a boat, and an officer directed
to treat with you for the ransom of the place
which you command. lam matter of this
Coast, and I can land 1,500 men who would
put every thing in fire and blood. Make
your reflections with the fhortelt delay, or
I bring my vefTels near, and I will not an
swer for the mifchiefs that may result from
it.
One hundred and fifty English prisoners,
that I have on board jny squadron, will re
main security for the good or bad treatment
that you /hall use to the men that I fend to
you.
On board the French republic's frigate
La Prudente, at anchor in Bencoolen Roads,
the 10th February, 1794, and the second
year of the French republic.
(Signed) RENAUD.
Remarks of eminent persons on Temperance,&c.
Soon in the lufeious feaft themselves they loft,
And dra k oblivion of their native coafi ;
Instant her circling wand the Goddrfs waves,
To hogs transforms them, and the stye receives.
Cotvley. In proportion as luxury in
creased, the life of man was abbreviated :
the seven kings of Rome reigned longer
than the firft twenty emperors.
Addifon. It is said of Diogenes, that
meeting a young man who was going to a
fealt, he took him up in the street, as one
who was running into imminent danger,
had he not prevented him.
Anacharf.s. This celebrated Scythian
philosopher being alk«;d how it was possible
a person might contrail a to wine,
answered, by beholding the indecencies of
the drunken.
Cicero. Temperance is the source of
great peace and tranquillity to men, for it
brings their desires and aversions under the
laws of reason.
Comoro. Of all parts of a feaft, that
which a man leaves does him the mot good.
Cadogan, m. d. However common it
may be for men that fuffer to complain of
the evils of life as the unavoidable lot of
humanity, they are the sole authors of their
mi (tries ; mod of them, however, he affirms
they acquire. All chronic diseases, molt
undoubtedly, men create by their own in
digencies ; nor will this physician allow of
hereditary gout.
Epicurus. Give me but bread and water,
and I will dispute the point of felicity with
Jupiter himfelf.
Hippocrates. If p man cat little and drink
little, he brings r.o deadly di order upon
himfelf.
Hoffman. Intemperance may properly be
turned the executioner of mankind, (gene
ris humani carn sex.)
Plato. To eat to faticty twite in one
day, and never to lleep alpne—This is a
Way of life in which no psrfort vfill ever
become wife. .. ' » .
Price t m. d. The black catalogue of
diseases which ravage human life is the off
fpring of luxury and falfe refinements of
civil society, intemperance and debauchery
| lay the foundations of numberless fuffer
j ' n g 6 » and terminate in premature and mife
rablc deaths. t
1 Pythagoras. Dmnkennefs is the study
.of madness.' Choose the best kind of life,
' and custom will focn render it permanently
J agreeable.
Seneca. Inebriety is neither more nqr
less than a voluntary insanity.
Socrates. Nature's real wants are few,
but the cravings of fancy are infinite.
Temple, Sir William. O temperance !
thou virtue without pride and fortune, with
out envy, thou best guardian of youth and
fnpport of ol(J age, tjie precept of retsfon as
well as of religion, and'phyfician of the foul
as well as the body.
Zeno. A wife man will drink wine, but
will not fuffer himfelf to be intoxicated by
it. This Celebrated philosopher was high
ly pleased with the morality of the cynics,
butdifgnftedwiththeir immodesty and impu
dence. He therefore instituted a new fe&,
which from his teaching in a porch or por
tico were styled Stipes ; hi# reputation soon
spread all*t>ver Greece, and he became, in
a short time, the mod distinguished philoso
pher in that country. Zeno lived to the
age of ninety-eight, without ever being at
tacked by any diseases. He taught philo
foghy forty-eight years, and died in the hun
dred and twenty-ninth Olympiad, and was
regretted by all who were friends to virtue
and learning. The Atheniaus caused a
tomb to be ere£ted sacred to his memory, in
the ftiburb of Cararifica, and by a public de
cree gave him a crown of gold, and caused
extraordinary honours to be paid to his mem
ory, as the decree expresses it, he
perfeftly excited the youth under his care
.to virtue, and always led a life conforma
ble to the precepts he inculcated and taught.
—■ n ■ *wv->—fVM.'miwi'iwwr.iiwonww
I ft D V'yf.
CALCUTTA, November 16, 1796.
The French frigates were repairing at
Mergui, they had sustained in
the late action. Their loss is reported to
have been *v?ry considerable, both in the
number of their killed and wounded, as well
as in the injury done to their hulls and rig
ging. Two of the frigates were completely
dismasted. Admiral Sercey intended to
have gone to Batavia ; but the dibbled
state of his squadron rendered it indispensably
neceflary to bear .up for a nearer port, in or
der to effect some urgent repairs.
The detachment of Native Infantry order
ed to be formed at Midnapore, are to remain
at that station, till the progreflion of political
affairs to the southward, shall determine the
impending question of peace or war.
Without pretending to better means of
judging than our neighbours, we are decid
ly of opinion that there will be 110 war.
The best reason for thinking Tippoo paci
fically inclined at present, is, that it is his
best interest to continue in peace. Yet, if
contrary to all reasonable expectation, war
should become unavoidable, it is highly fa
tisfadlory to know and to reflett that the
English goverument is fully competent and
prepared
•pads import ere morem,
Par cere fubje&is, et deb el I are fafter bos. t
We cannot too much admire the genius
of that philosophy, which teaches us to
feel with luch perfeft composure, or rather
10 feel not at all, for the distresses of others-
In a bosom, for instance, whose pafiions are
not dignified by the absolute controul of rea
son, the slaughter of twenty thousand human
beings, might awaken a spark of companion
or invite a fyrapathetic tear, for the fuffer
ings of widows, or helpless orphans, or of
families bereft of all their support. But
how vain and ridiculous would such sensibili
ty appear in th« eye of that superior wisdom
which, in the happiest style of pleasantry,
difcovcrs even in the death of twenty thou
sand men, in the fufferings of their friends,
nothing more than a source of jest, from
which we may be ingeniously provided with
les veritables bonnet touches, of the Ortolan
kind.
Oath in Evidence. The witnefljk-iwears,
fays Dr. Paley, ' to speak the truth, the
whole truth, and nothing but the truth,
touching the matter 111 question.'—Upon
which it may be observed, that the designed
concealment of any truth, which relates to
the .matter, in agitation, is as much a viola
tion of the oath, as to teftify'a positive falfe
hood ; and this, whether the witness be in
terrogated to that particular point or not ;
for when the person to be examined is sworn
upon a voire-dirc, that is, in order to en
quire, whether he ought to be admitted to
give evidence in the caufc at all, the form
runs thus :
1 You shall true answer make to all such
questions as (hall be aflied you ;' but, when
he comes to be sworn in chief, he swears—
' to speak the whole truth,' without re
straining it as before, to the questions that
shall be asked ; which difference shews that
the law intends, in this latter cafe, to re
quire of the witness that he give a complete
and unreserved account of what he knows,
of the fubjeft of the trial, whether the ques
tions prapofed to him reach the extent of
his knowledge or not. So that if it be en
quired of the \vitnefs afterwards, why he did
not infovm the court so and so, it is not a
fufScient, though a very common answer,
to fay—' Because it was never asked me.'
In refutation of the complaint of a paper
of last week, that the Delhi* newspapers
were not prpcurable here but via Bombay,
we have been mofl obligingly favored with
several of the latefl of the Delhi newspapers,
received immediately from that capital. We
regret extremely that we have been unable
to prepare tranfltions a in time for this day's
Mirror.
We are sorry to find it confirmed that the
recent death of the Nabob of Furtuckabad
was iji confequer.ce of polfon adminiflered
by his eldest ion.' Crimes of such atrocity,
it is always painful to relate. Three of the
Nabob's Wotften, who eat of the polfoned
dishes, are also dead.
The late Nabob's, second fyn has been
placed upon the Mufnud.
* The celebrated capital of the Great Mogul—
plundered ly Nadir Scliah.
To the CONDUCTOR of the MIRROR.
Ecce,
Crifpinus minim? me provocat.
Behold the Crispins •u'a'untirjrly appear,
The Goose *// champion* 'yainjl the hundredth yrar.
SIR,
The question Ivben will the eighteenth cen
tury end ? was firfl proposed here
month ago, since which time the
of it has set many of his majesty's loyal fub
je£ts by the ears.
What a pity it was not darted to the
good people of England two or three years
ago, ; it might amuse them fully as well as
politics, and though probably With equal
danger to themselves, yet certainly with lefs
danger to the state.
But 4s we are very harmless politicians in
Bengal, and as this question is agitated with
a degree of warmth bordering on violence,
by men even of the best education and the
firft rate abilities ; and as hiftoriaps and
chranologifts may be ranged 011 each fide as
authorities without elucidating the fuhject ;
I trust that some indulgence will be grant
ed me, if by close reafqning, clear deduct
ions, and flri£t analogy, I endeavor to an
ftver the question, reconcile the contending
parties, and afTert my own right to be a
component part of the century, to which I
only have the power of giving the name.
I take it for granted that every person
will allow the moment immediately after
the nativity to have been the JirJl of the
christian sera, that this firft moment and fif
ty-nine more were the JirJl Uninute, that this
firft minute and fifty-nine more were thp
firjl hour, that this firft hour and' twenty
three more were theJirJl day, that this firft
day and 364 more were the JirJl year, and
that from the begging to the end of it eve
ry day might be faid to.be in the
JirJl year—and that it could only be denom
inated one ycaf-when every moment of it was
completely past.
Here then it evidently appears that JirJl
takes precedence of one—lt was the JirJl
year when palling, only when past.
The next year was the second when- pasT
ing ; and when past and added to the JirJl,
they counted two years. The third year
when past and added to the JirJl and second
were counted three years.
The Jixthyear when past and added to the
1 ft, 2d, 3d, 4th and sth, were counted Jix
years ; and by the parity of reasoning the
ninety Jixth year when past, and added to the
ninety five preceding years were counted
ninety Jix years, of course when the hundredth
year was past and added to the preceding
ninety nine years, one complete century had
elapsed—which proves by the clearest de
monstration that this century ends with the
last moment of the eighteen hundredth year.
To every man open to conviftion the a
bove flatement will be fatisfadtory andcon
cluGve—lt shews the absolute neceflity of
employing ordinal numbers to denote the
faffing or current portions of time in every
xra that was since the beginning of the
world, or tint will be reckoned until the end
of time.
It flu we that the only use of cardinal
numbers 'when employed, for they are not
necefTary simply to dtnote the units or
complete ) ears that are past, but cannot ap
ply to preitnt' current time—nor has the
number emj loyed a greater reference to the
last year of the series than it had to the firft.
Still however the advocates for ninety-nine
alTerl that cardinal numbers only were used
in the computation of the christian; sera, be
cause it was not computed regularly from
the nativity, and only firft thought ps by
Dionyfius, five hundred and sixteen years
afterwards.
But he could have veiy little trouble in
reckoning the years past, he had only to
count a hundred to every century, as we
would count Gold mohurs, and the year in
which he was doing so would molt certainly
be an ordinal year, and denoted Jive hundred
and seventeenth year, and the sera would go
on regularly afterwards to the end of the
world, had it not been interrupted by the
present reforming fcepticks in chronology.
The whole force of their argument goes
to prove that we cannot fay the year ninety
Jix till ninety jix be past (for they mak? it an
adje&ive in the fingnlar number) and there
fore that we continue to fay ninety Jix till
nintty-feven be paft—fothat we must denote
every occurrence which takes plaee in this
current year as happening in last year, tho'
past nearly ten months ago. An exTinple
or two twill illuftratc this new mode of com
putation ; for instance the Arrogant and
Viftorious had an aftion with the French
frigates on the eight day of September, beiijg
the nine month of this ninetyjix year. And
yet the aftion must have happened on the day
before as day eight was past before it could
be counted, and in the month before as
month nine, was also past before it was count
ed, in the fame manner that ninety-fix was
past before it was so denominated. Again,
I have written this defence of myfelf on this
nineteen day of O(Sober, which was past last
night, at twelve o'clock.
This may be conlidered ps turning the
fubjeft into ridicule, yet I d<?fy any man ot
use cardinal numbers io denote current time
in any other manner ; but if any one think
he can, let him answer in cardinal numbers
the following questions :
In what year did our Gracious Sovereign
come to the throne ? In what year did Lord
Howe defeat the Freirch fleet ? On what
day of <his month will term begin ? and by
what names will the lawyers call it and the
day after it ? Some would call the firft Zero
day, and the next day, One, and find out
by adding them that 0 and J would make
Tn»o,
Some however admit that tin's may be
the Ninctj-fcvmth Tear, forgetting that the
moment an ordinal number clcpreffed or tin- *
"derftood is at all admitted, their whole fa
bric tumbles to the ground. For the dif- i
•PUte entirely hinges on the fmgle qutfticn.
Whether the ordinal number iooth ■ Was
made or not in the firft century to
'denote the twelve months intervening bet
ween the inftartt which completed ninety
nine years, and the instant which completed
one hundred years ?—For the number of i
years, days and hours computed by each par
ty are exaaiy the fame. If Cardinal num
bers alone were fufficient, no doubt their
mode of computing a century wouldbeftriS
ly cQireft ; for the twelve months mention
! tioned mil ft have been must have been called
Ninety-nine, until rffte hundred years vvefe
I completed. But we shall immediately fee
! that no cardinal number excepting the firlV,
, can Apply to a single year, that all the Vcft
being adjectives without a lingular number
can only denote a plurality of years which
in calculating an JEn are ccmpleated and
past, or supposed to be' so. We cannot
! join'an adjective in the plural number to a
fubilantive in the lingular, without grofV
violation of gramaticaal concord. And it i*
just as absurd to fay the year Ninety fix, as
to fay the Man Ninety-fix, or the Ninety-fix,
Calf, or Coofe. I instance these as substan
tives in which the finguW is different from
the plural in found, that the absurdity may
appear in a more conspicuous point of view.
Here then the neceflity of using ordinal
numbers to denote present or current porti
ons of time is evident. They afe adjectives
that have no plural number, and can denote
a lingle purtioit of time as present, whether
it be a century, year, or day, .&c. and
every number not only denotes the current
j year, but also all the past years of the cen
tury, Eighteenth Century denotes the cur
rent one, and that seventeen had preceded
it—ninety-ftxth year denotes the present year
and that ninety five more are past, Tenth
Month denotes the present, and that nine
more of ithis year are past, and the nineteenth,
the prefect day, and that eighteen More are
alre-c'y past of this month.
In this way we can date the tranfafliuns
of everyyear without ambiguity or absurdity
j even to the very moment of a
occurrence happened. The action just
now alluded to will again serve as an ex
ample. It took place on the eighth day of
the ninth month, of the ninety-fxth year of
the eighteenth century.
I may be told that JthappenedOneThou
fand Seven Hundred and Ninety-fix Yeais,
Eight Months, Seven Days, Eight hows
and a half, after the Birth of Christ, but as
it lasted near three hours, was it in the One
hour, or the two hour, or the three hour,
that Captain Clark was wounded j or fec<*/d,
or third hour of the afiion ?
Having now clearly proved the necaflity
of denoting current years, &c. by ordfnil
numbers, and (hewn the propriety of apply
ing them exclusively to the composition of
the Chrifu'an and every other -/Era, and de
monstrated that where cardinal numbers are
at all used, they must succeed the ordinal as
regularly as night fuccecds day, viz, one
fueceeds frjl—ten the tenth—fifty s thefftieth,
and one hundred the huudreth.—Let us now
try how far we are fupportsd by analogy—
His Majesty calls this the 3stb year of his
Reign—the Americans call it the 21 ft of*
American Independence—the
it the sth jmr of their Republic,
all call it the 4th year of the present War.-
And to conclude with the best authority,
Doftor Johnson expressly asserts, that A.
D. 1751, means in the seventeen hundred
and fifty firft year from the birth of our Sa
viour ; and would, I dare fay, if now alive,
knock any man down, with his foh'o di&iofc
ary, who could have the effrontery to dispute
the rank in the Century, so jullly claimed
by the
ONE HUNDRED TH YEAR. ,
P. S. The Card in alia ns driven to theut
moft ver<je of sophistical ratiocination, are
now obliged to deny that time is ever present
or pajfing. If so, there can be no time in
which any thing can be done; thepoflis gone
the Juture may never come; and it is only
aftonifliing in what division of time they were
able to advance such novel dodlrines.
The Inftact in which our Savior
m- •*} was-born.
i
Year past 1 As figure 1 mufl- be
l_. " marked at the t-nd
/ > of the fijft year, so
e- J figure 1 mutt he
Year past a—— marked at the end, of
S the second year.
OK > Figure 5 ut the end of
O" j the fifth year. .
Do. 3 Figure 16 at the end
J? of the tenth year,
o 5 > Figure lea at the eni ;
'5- ) of the hundredth
Do. 4 year, & confequerrt*
■ t, } ly figure iSooat the
os* f end of the eighteen
J hundredth ytar.
Do. j
„S 1 i
o
6 M
w s* .
( 1
p t r
: jfc i
Do. 8 -■-
\ I
Do. 9 0 J
?5 I f # mL
£r I J r" ■
Do. io I
- - Si quid Novfti rcfttas t(lh
Candidas i/nperti : Si non, his utere tnccum 7 W.
Berhamvnre, Oil. an, *796. ,
. ~ H
Excellent Bourdeaux Brandy I
Ditto riitt ■> Claret isr.cafes
Just received, and for Sale by
Rtmnlf is Leech. H
Air. ci. leWtf HBy this day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, September 30.
Extract of a letter from a gentleman at
Nantes, to a refpeC'tablfc house in this city, j
dated Jvine 15, 1797.
" The certainty whiclj the executive di
rectory of France has had, tljat many Eng
lish vefiels failed under American colours,
and that many American vefiels failed with
the greater part of their crew's English, has (
provoked the decree of the executive dir.ee- ;
toryofthe 12th Ventofe, sth year, (2d
March, '97) which prtferibes that all A
merican vefiels (hall be captured and con
demned as good prizes, which 1 have not a
Role d'Equipage ; or even having one, if the
caatam, or any officer or supercargo, or one
third of the crew should be English. In
qpnfequerice, every American vessel to Igyp
rule, ought to have a role d'equipage,
tainirig the names of baptism and family, the
place of birth and place of residence of every
individual on board, comprehending both '•
the crew and paflengers ; and if any of them '
should not be born in the United States, he ■
mud have » prote&ion from the United i
States, which certifies that he was a natural
ized citizen of the United States before the j
present war. This role d'equipage ought to .
be signed by two witrtefies, who attest the
truth of the fa&s, and fubferibed by the offi
cer or judge of the marine, who has given
to the individuals the permission of embark
ing." _ » '
An English gentleman, lately driven from
Philadelphia by the prevailing fever,—by i
chance, took up his residence at Middle-
Town Point, New-Jersey—within one mile
of which place, he is now employed in boring i
for COAL, and has already come to that
species of (tone which always covers the
Newcastle pit coal—He has had 30 years
experience in coal-mining, and is very fan
guiue as to his success. This mud be a
pleasing piece of news to the citizens of New-
Yorjt ; for, ftiould the coal prove good, it
mult, from an easy tranfportaticn, considera
bly lefTen tfeetfperiieof keeping themselves
warm.
Yesterday arrived the brig Calliope, Leo
nard, and the schooner Hiram, Murphy,
from Jamaica'
Lad evening two English frigates an
chored off Staten Ifiand.
A letter from Cape Nichola Mole, of
August 28, fays, " I am exceeding sorry
to communicate to you, that your schooner
Regulator is now under trial of the court
of vice admiralty, which is now held at
Mole St. Nicholas. I failed from L'An
ceveaux the 27th of July, and on the 28th
following was boarded by his Britannic ma
jelly's ship Ratler, who treated me exceed
ingly well, examined all my papers and
found them right. The captain wifiied me
a good voyage, and told me to proceed,
which I accordingly did, anjl on the 29th
• following was boarded by the government
ship Lewis Farquharfon, mailer,
who ordered me to Port au Prince, and took
roe out of the schooner on board his ship,
and took all my papers in his charge. On
the 4th of August we arrived at Port au
Prince, where 1 made myfelf known to
your friends, Mr. Forbes and Mr. Cognac.
I have entered a regular protest and left a
copy with Mr. Forbes, to be sent in your
schooner Fox, v iich I expe£t will fail with
convoy from thence. When I was
taken, captain Farquharfon told me, that
he had received strong information from
captain Clement Miner, maflir of the sloop
Nancy, of New-York, that my cargo was
French property, and for that very reason
he took me and intended to libel me."
(C/* A communication, refpecling the
reception of the chevalier d'Yrujo at Boston
and Portsmouth, shall appear on Monday.
BOSTON, September 27.
REVIEW OF MILITIA.
Yesterday his excellency the commander
in chief, reviewed at Concord the whole of
the third division of militia of this com
monwealth, commanded by major general
Hull.
Prectfely at ten o'clock the Several corps
took the stations assigned them, and the re
view Commenced at twelve. „
The fitimtion of the ground made it ne
cefiary to form two lines, like semi-hollow
squares.
The firft, commanded by brigadier-ge
neral Walker, confitted of one squadron of
cavalry, under major Brown, composed of
csvptains Jones's, Fowle's, Coolidge's and
Wyman's corps ; —two companies of light
infantry, commanded by captains Bigelow
and Butterick ; —one battalion of artillery
undef - capt. Hastings, composed of his and
capt. Bemus's companies; and four regi
ments of infantiy, commanded by colonels
Coolidge, Flint, Colburne and Perry.
The second line, commanded by briga
dier-general Woods, contained three troops ;
of cavalry, commanded by captains Flet
cher, Blood and Flood ; —one battalion of
artillery, commanded by captains Farnf
worth, Gardner and French ; and three
regiments of infantry, commanded by co
lonels Swain, Ofgood and Varnum.
The whole, making seven corps of ca
valry, two companies of light infantry,
five companies of artillery, and seven regi
ments of infantry, were in complete and .
elegant cloth uniforms, were fully officered, j j
and completely armed and equipped. Eve- 1 ,
ry corps had a full proportion of music,
the cavalry were elegantly mounted, and
the daft' could not be lurpafied by the best
Europe can produce.
The troops had no sooner formed than a
fevers equinoxial derm commenced; and
before his excellency appeared on tl# parade j
the whole of them were drenched to the
fltin. The troops nevertheless went through
the usual manoeuvres and evolutions with
veteran exaftnefs. .
Before twelve the comitiander in chief, ,
ifcorted by capt. Fowle's troop of cavalry,
arrived at Concord,. where capt. Jones took <
up the efcor!, and his. €KccJle«cy, accom
panied by major-general Elliot, the adju
tant and quarter-miller generals, and seve
rn! other dad-officers, processed to the re
vrew, notwithdariding the inclemency of
the weather. The storm prevented
military exhibitions ; prudence, if not ne
cessity, requiring the immediate difmiflal of
the troops after the review.
Until the rain commenced, the scene was
splendid and beautiful ; and the elemental
inconvenience which general Hull and his
whole division experienced, gave »pain t<v
the bread of sensibility. We could enume
rate many excellencies of conduft, which
| were highly honourable to our countrymen,
even under the iuaufpicious date of the
weather, 3id the admit. But this
sketch is put to the press at a late hour.
The RtmtrkabU Fiji, mentioned in the Mercury
of yesterday, is cert.iin'.y a novelty on this coast.
It appears, fay» a eorrefpondent, to be the famn fifli
described by Brooks, ip his Natural Hillory,
the name of the Sea Fox, It is so called, he fays,
on account of the length of his tail, an<l from the
ftrongfmell of the flefli Buffon terms it the long
tailed Shark, and observe«, that it was anciently
1 a'lled Sea Horse, from its supposed cunning. It is
usually met with in the Mediterranean Sea. Brooks
ohferves, that it is sometimes so large, as to weigh
above 100 pounds, and Peasant mentions oße as
remarkable, which, measured 13 feet in length.—
A particular description of the ont now exhibited
would be desirable ; a cursory examination, has
induced a belief, that it would he found to b» lar
ger than thojf defended by European naturalists.
Riches of Ejftx —On Monday, arrived at Dan
vers, from the Grand Bank, schooner Sajly. 86
tons burthen, belonging to capt. Samuel Page, Gi
deon Rea, mailer, with upwards of one tboufand
quintals of fifh, and 24 bbls of oil. In the year
1791,, the fame schooner landed 1176 quiutals al
one fare, and in I'pi, (he landed 1046 quintals at
ore fare from the Bay of St l.awrenco. These
are the thiee largsfl fares we haveevnr heard ofbe
ing landed.
NEWBURYPORT, Sept. 26.
Saturday afternoc n a fifhing (ballep. with 3
hands belonging Ann attempted to go
over the bar just before low water —but unfot
tunatelv drifted on the breakers where (he filled,
and two of them were drowned ; the other con
tinued ill water nearly two hours, and was taken
upijy aH.oat which went from town for that pur
]£)fe, on feeing their diftreb.
HANOVER, N. H. Aug. 28.
DARTMOUTH COLLEGE.
Lad Wcdnefday was our Anniversary
Commencemvnt. After the necessary pre
parations, a procession was formed confiding
of the Board of Trudees, members of the
College) and a refpeftable number of public
characters.
The procession moved from the Presidents
house to the meeting house.
The President introduced the business of ;
the day, with prayer, after which were the
following exercises by the candidates.
FORENOON.
id. A piece of Music.
2d. ,A salutatory oration in Latin—by
Mr. P. White.
3d. A fyllogidic dispute on this quedion.
An urbes magna genti utilitatcm confcrunt ?
By Mr. Thurdon respondent, and Messrs.
March and Wilson, opponents.
4th. A diflertation in English by Mr.
Whitney.
sth< A Forensic dispute on this quedion.
Do the laius of the solar fyjlem involve the prin
ciples of it.l diffolutioit? By Mefjrs. Cabet and
Jamefon. . '
6th. An English diflertation—By Mr.
Chafe.
7th. A Poem—by Mr. Dakin.
Bth. An English dialogue—by M«flrs.
Dwight and Reid.
9th A Greek oration—Mr. Palmer.
AFTERNOON. •
id. Music.
2d. Philofophicaloratioo—-by Mr. Locke.
3d. An English dialogue—by MelT'rsjA
dams and Kingfbury.
4th. A Chaldaic oration—by Mr. Car
ter. ,
sth. An English dialogue—by Meflrs.
Little.
6th. A ( Poem—by Mr. B. White.
When the degree of Bachelor of Arts
was conferred on Meflrs. Daniel Adams,
William B. Banider, Walter Brewder, Se
badian Cabot, Ezra Carter, Moses Chafe,
Daniel Church, Samuel Daken, John Die
kinfon, Daniel Dwight, Wm. Ferfon, James
Otis Freeman, Joseph Gcrrifh, John Ham,
Thomas Jamefon, John F. Jamiifon', Ep
hraim Kingfbury, Danies Lewis, Edward
Little, Joseph Locke, Jacob Macgaw, John
March, David Palmer,' George Reid, Mi
thew Thornton, John P. Thrudon, Tho
mas White, Broughton White, John Whit
ney, Wm. Wilson.
The dtgre of Mader of Arts was confer
red on Mr. Elihu Dwight, the rev. Heraan
Ball, rev. # Wm. Green, rev. Ebenezer
Price, rev. Ben. Wood, Mr. Wm. Ward,
rev. Sam. C. Allen, Rev. Wm. Pidgeon,
rev. Jt-fTe Edfon,' rev. John Smith, Mr.
James Temple, Mr. Philip Carrigain, Mr.
Charles Barret, Mk. Dorins Shaw, Mr.
Thos. Heald, Mr. Nathaniel Cogfwell,
Mr. Moses Eadman, Mr. Ralph Phelps,
Mr. Hubbard, Mr. Aaron Hardy, Mr.
Joseph Harvey, Mr. Jeremiah H. Wood
man, Mr. Howlies, Mr. Nicholas Baylies,
alumni of this College ; and the rev. Cy
prian Strong of Yale College was admitted
to the fame.
The degree of Do£lor of Laws was con
ferred on the h»n. Oliver-Ellfworth, Esq.
Chief Judice of the United States ; and
the hon. Nathaniel Chipnaan, Esq. Chief
Judice of the date of Vermont.
Then followed the valedictory by
Mr. Thornton. The whole was closed with
a prayer by the President.
The exercises of the graduates were sen
sible and elegant ; and every tranfaftion of
the day was decent and in order.
BALTIMORE, September 28.
'We were yefterdsy obliizir.gly favore-d with
a lengthy proclamation, ifTued by Raimond,
con;m ll'ary at the Cape for the French V> iud
wa:diflands; but as we are informed th.'.t it
Contains but Jiltle elle than a dcclaratiqp of .the-
patriotic pr'nciplas by which heh:sl:een and.
lhall Continue to he abated, together with an
exhortation r<> ail colors ro deme-in V
orderly .and peaceable under h'J* <tdmin>ftratioß,
we forbear filling our paper with its transition.
BOARD of HEALTH.
, ' BURIALS
In the weft part of Baltimore, heretofore
called the town—for the last twenty-four
hours, ending this morning atYunrife.
Adults 2 Children o
Buriali in the east part, called Fell's Point,
&c. including the Potter's Field.
Adults i Children o
(Signed)
Jqseph Townsend, clerk.
September 29.
Died this day, John Haperty, jun—a youth
vvhofr mil*!ifpo(ltion and .-muble qualities had en
deared him to all his acquaintance.
»Ww 11 HE*WB—B—
(Bwttt.
PHILADELPHIA,
MONDAY EVENING, October J
Total of burials for 24 hours, ending Satur.
day at noon.
St. Peter's ' o I
St Paul 1 * o T
Third Pre/byterian 1 o
St. Mary's Church I I
Friends I o
Free Queers' a o
Swedes ' 3 , 2
German Lutherean 1 O
Baptifls o I
Porter's Field I o
City Hospital* 8 o
18' 6
* Four of theft from tlx i ity.
DIED, tjii« morning, Mr. Samuel Fenno, of
this city. ,
L »»ly, at the house of John Clifford,four
miles froi* the city, of a putrid fever, Mis« I ami
fonCliffara, daughter of Thomas Clifford, deceased.
The total number of burials in the city and fu
burVs during the mopth ofAugufl, J. 793, was 315.
For the fame month in th"e present year, the num
ber ha*been »88, of which 141 were children.—
Difference 37.
The total number during the month of Septem
btr, >79 J, was 1441. For the nt month 581,
as which Ix 2 were children —Di
/ September 30, 1797.
.'ln order to lessen your prejudices against
Weeding, mercurial purges and faliyation,
I do hereby certify, that I api just recover
ed from a relapse of the yellow fever, occa
froned by relying too much on my own
Iftrength, and undertaking a long journey,
before I was able to perform it, without
consulting my physician and friends, which
I mention as a caution to others. My firft
attack was very severe, for the cure of which
I loft 126 ounces of blood in 12 bleedings,
and the last time I loft 24 ounces in 3 bleed
ings, making in all 150 ounces, besides
I had several blisters, &c. applied
both times, and took freely of mercury,
internally and externally, by order of my
physician, Samuel Cooper, to whtofe (kill
and care, under God, I owe great obliga
tions for the preservation of my life.
DAVID EVANS, juh.
Mr. John Fenno.
[Mr. Evans being a very ingenious and ufeful
citizen his friends and the public, will hear v->h
great (atisfaSion, of hu recovery.
As ttrere appears to be a mifconftruSion of the
sentiments advanc«d«n the Gazette of the United
States, it may be proper to state, that neither mer
curial purges, nor lalivation nor bleeding (in mo
deration) have ever been opposed in this paper ]
A correfpnnd«nt observes, on the fubjeft
of the approaching Election, that every ci
tizen ought to realize the importance, of his
vote, at the felettion of persons to manage
the public concerns - and every mau who
wilfully neglcfte giving in his vote, ought to
be considered as committing a crime against
liberty. To what purpose is it that we have
a mild, free and equitable government, if we
f'iffer a eabal to get possession of the feat
<;f eleftion, and overrun the house with Ja
cobins, Democrats, Frenchmen and pre
tended Republicans. Advert, citizens of
Philadelphia, to that awful warning which
now hangs over your heads, and guard a -
gainst a future neceflily for similar calamities
by (hutting the door against French princi
ples and every thing Frejich. He who can,
at the present ajvful moment, set on foot a
eabal, for the extension of French influence,
is upon a level with those miscreants who,
at Port Royal, while the earth was shaking
under their feet, went about robbing and
collefting plunder.
To the PUBLIC.
THJJ sum appropriated by the Legislature
for the relief and unfortcuate citizens of Philad-
Iphia, during the p* vailing sickness, being
nearly, if not wholly expended, and as no further
aid can, at prefer.t, be derived from the fame
ource, the fuffering poor are under the neceflity
of relying on the individual benefu3ions cf their
more wealthy fellow-citizens, to whose fympa
thv and hnmir.ity they look up with confidence,
from the generosity heretofore inanifefted on
similar occasions:—And as the citizens of our
fifterftates may ibe disposed to unite their good
offices in aidivg the dJl■ejj'td, it may be proper
to mention the commissioners appointed by the
governor (of whom Robert Wharton, esq. is
chairman) to distribute the money grautea by
the state, as the moll proper persons to receive
dona'ions ; the gentlemen eor.ipofir.g thkt board
having, by their fidelity, ami public spirit, im
preflcd the citizens with the utmofl confidence in
theii humanity, oeconomy, and difintereflednefs.
A Philadelphia*'
CfTheluJinefs of the CUSTO M-IIfjUSE,
will from this day be tranfaßed at Chester
for some time.
Sept. 30.
POST-OFFICE.
Philadelphia, Sept. 29, 1797*
LETTERS for the Bntijh PacLet,for
Falmouth, will be received at this Office,
until Tuesday, the third of OSlolsr, at
twelve o'clock, noon. The wiandpfjlage to
A't W-s'l, k nutfl I# pqirf. dtTjdi
CITY HOSPITAL REPORT,* |
From the 30th September to ift, Oftober, j
in the morning.
Admitted, since last report,
Margaret Grofcup—l69, So. Front street.
Clarifia Graham— 7, Stamper's Alley.,
Susanna Riley—B6, North Water street.
Wm. Norris—North Water street, oppo
site Mr. Girard's.
Alex. Murray— 174, So. Second street.
Died since last report.
1 , • , howlongffick pre
wlien admitted .
vioiiatoadmilnon.
Mic. Kenner 28th ult. 7 days
The. M'Mcchin 26th 4 days
Hu. Dougherty 29th 3 days
Mary Patterfon 29th 19 hours, unknawn.
Thos. Morrifon 29th 24 do. 3 days
Wm. Norris, 36th 7 do. 3 do.
Remaining last Report 62
Admitted iince, 5
1 ' \ 67
Discharged Ifone
Died 6 6
Remain inHofpital, | 61
Nine of whom are dangero'i.?.
Interred in City Hospital burying ground
since last report :
From the city and fuhurbs 7
From the city hospital 6
Total 13
Stephen Girard,
(Signed) Caleb Lownes,
John Connelly,
Pubh'fhed by order of the Board,
Wm. MONTGOMERY
Chairman, pro-tem.
CITr HOSPITAL REPORT,
From ift of Oftober, in the morn.
Admitted fincc last report:
David Smith—corner of 4th and Lombard
streets.
Discharged since last report:
Jane M'Kinley—admitted i 2th ult.
Nancy Doyle- 12th
Died since last report:
When-admitted. How lon £ k „? re "
vious to admimon.
Andrew Kidfley, 26th ult. 2 days.
Wm. M'Creery, 25th do. 2 days.
Remaining last report 61
Admitted since I 1
. / 62
Discharged 2
Died • 2 4
Remains in | s^ ValefCen "
Seven of whom are dangerous.
Interred since last report,
i From city and suburbs 1
Hospital 2
Total 3
Stephen Girard.
(Signed) Calkb Lownes.
J . John Connelly.
Jrublifhed by order of the Board,
Wm. MONTGOMERY,
Chairnan pro tem.
Extraft of a letter from Grrnd Caicos, 28 th,
August, 1797.
" There are a number of French priva- j
teers and pickaroons off Heneauga, cruiz- [
ing for Americans. They frequently came i
to anchor under'the weft Caicos. A Spa- I
nidi pickaroon, galley rigged, parted by my
house fix days ago.
" The Aquillon and Thames frigates, a
few days since, drcre two brigand gun boats
aground on the St. Domingo coast. The
boats from the (hips attacked them under a
very fire from the fliore ; and not'.vith
ftanding every effort of the enemy, who were
numerous, lauded and brot' them off."
(Nassau pa per.)
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
New-York, September 31.
arrived. Days
Schr. Lucy, Phipps, C. N. Mole 30
Lucy, Bradbury, N. Providence 16
Paragon, Montgomery, Montego
Bay 46
Cornelia, , St. Thomas 32
Schr. Lucy# David Phipps, from Jamai
ca, last from Mole St. Nicholas, 30 days,
who lat. 37, 42, N. long. 72, 00, W.
was taken by the French privateer Barce
lona, and- ordered for Guadaloupe the next
day ; the 20th September was re-taken by
the Ceres English frigate, and ordered for
Halifax. The schooner arrived here this
morning—the capt. having prevailed on the
crew to take her to New-York.
Newbury-Port, Sept. 26.
Saturday arrived fchr. Hannah, capt. Re
micJc, 58 days frbm Jackmel, and 36 from
Cape Nichola Mole.
Extra 3 from the log-book. .
July 29, was bro't to by 3 frigates boat,
Lantaralla, capt. John Weft, detained about
an hour and dismissed.
30, boarded by the Gamut cutter, capt.
Clark, detained but a few minutes.
Aug. 18, lat. 20, 29, the Mole harbour
bearing E. S. E. spoke the brig Nancy,
from New-York, bound up the Bite.
19, was boarded by another frigate, but
not detained. -
22, bo?rded by a French privateer, de
tained about an hour.
30, lat. 32, 14, spoke the fchr. Trent,
from Baltimore, bound to Hifpaniola, 12
days out.
Sept. 6, lat. 36, 56, long. ($9, 40, spoke
the fehooner Betsey and Nancy, S. Hiils,
master, from Weathersfield, bound to Gua
daloupe, 3 days out. »
7, spoke a brig from Antigua, bouiid to
Old York.
19, Cape Cod bearing W. S. W. 24
leagues, spoke the schooner Joa„ Lampfon,
frfm JJofton, 2 days out, bound tq Currarea.
ii nc following Lu of condemned ,Tt
J Cape Nscholn Mole jn /Vuguft, was hand
ed us by Ca-pt. Rpmick.
Schr. WiJiiamj Smith,' Baltimore,
Patpxoh, Harrlfon, do.
——Sally, Hodge, do.
Peii'evt-rauce, , do.
1 Young, do.
Telegraph, Gould, do.
Sally, Courfell, do
Sloop Huldah, Mills, do.
Pattarance, Young, Philadelphia
Brig Greenfield, Stephens, New-York.
Schr. Alliee, Rides, Boston.
Capt. David Young, late mailer of the brig
Nathaniel of this port, has politely handed
us the following memorandum.
On my paiTag* from Norfolk, bound ta
Jamaica, was captured and carried in Port
de Paix.
ad Augnft, vefTcl and cargo condemned*
4th. Schr. Eliza, Thomas Pafton, from
Jeremie, bound to Baltimore, condemned.
6th. Eagle, Orlando Dana, from
Philad. boundto Port-au-Prince,condemned.
ioth, —— Ehza, Davery, from New-
York, condemned.
11 th, Cnarlotte, John P'ideron,
condemned.
Lift of veflels bro't,into the above said
port, after the 11 th, which had not bten
brought to trial the 28th.
13th. Snip Penelope, Wm. Flagg,
C'narleilon, S. C. bound to St. Jago"(Cuba.)
17th, fchr. -Lucy, Higgins, from Boston,
bound to I/ance a Veaux.
Alciope, Robert Price, from Phi
ladelphia. •
Sloop Rachel, Gilbert, from New-York,
bound to Cayes. v
21 ft, Ship of Plenty, Chernfide,
from Philadelphia, bound to Cape Nichola
Mole.
2 2d, Brig Harriot, Campbell, from Bal
timore bound to Port au Priiice ; the roaftef
died on his pafiage—taken and retaken three
times, the last time had one man killed who
was an Engliftiman. »
25th. An embargo was laid on all veflels
at Port au Paix, in consequence of Santho
nax being arretted by Gen. Toufang at the
Cape, and on boafrd a fliip of 20 guns
for France.
2sth. The ftiip on board which Santho
nax was put, came to off Port Paix, took
on board some sailors which had been prefs'd
1 for the purpose and then made fail, bound
to France.
28th,' In the morning the embargo was
taken off—at which time left the place on
board the schooner Hannah, ,capt. Cran
don, bound to Plymouth.
Came out in company with sloop Favor
ite, Brinton, and fchr. Yeatman, Crane
I Booth, for Wilmington.
I Left there schooner Cyrus, Campbell, of
New-York—:fhip Hope, Burr, do.—Brig
delphia, master and vefiel's name unknown.
30th August, spoke a French privateer
schooner of 6 guns which had the brig Pol
ly of Philadelphia in company, which she
I had taken the day before in the Cayos pa£-
! sage.
Baltimore, Sept. 28.
Arrived yesterday, brig Industry, Bishop,
} 3.1 days from Petit Guave. Left there
brig Diligent, Sheerman, of Philadelphia }
Industry, Eafly, of Ponland ; schooner
Hope, Morton, of Beverly.
WILMINGTON (N. C.) Sept. 11.
PROCLAMATION.
t W HERES I have received information
that a certain EZEKILE POLK. JOHN
\ JOHNSTON, and others, of Mecklenburg
county in this Jlate, not regarding their duty as
citizens, nor the peace, order and good govern
ment of this and the United Slates ; of their
own mischievous minds and imagination, and
in contempt nf the laiu authorities of the said
fates did lately, in the 'county of Merklenburg
aforcfctid, and parts, adlacent, Jet on foot and
prepare for carrying on, a military expedition,
for the invasion of and taking into their pojpf
fionjhe territory of the Indians, on the
Tennessee, with whom the United States are
at peace. Aid for the above nefarious purposes,
by themselveS and others, did ferfuade, incite
and stir up many persons in tlx said county cf
Mecil nlurg and elf ewhere, to cnlijl and eqt so
| themselves as fo/diers ; and did actually cauf»
such enl'Jlmcnts and equipment to be made.
Wherefore to prevent such daring and illegal
proceedings in future, ami to bring the said
EizekielPoil, John JohnJl on and others, prin
cipal offenders, to jujlice, I do, by and with ad
vice of the Council ijfue this Procla>-
motion, JlriSly ■ charging and requiring all offi
cers of jujlice, and others, to apprehend, secure
and bring to jujlice, the said Eze&iel Poll, John
JohnJlon, and other principal delinquents, if to
be found in this Jlate. -And I hen by prohibit
under the feverejl penalties of the law, all such
illegnl preparations and proceedings iti future j
anil 1 caution all the good citizens of theJldfem
againjl the illusory representation andpromfes
which may be held forth to them,
them in such unwarrantable enterprixes, that
willfinally involve\them in great difficulty and
ruin.
GIVEN nnder my hand and leal at
emit f,it Raleigh, theJirJl day of Sept.
D. 1797. and in the 22d. cf
American Independence.
SAMUEL ASHE.
By command.
Roger Moore, Private Secretary.
Thomas Armat and Son,
OF PHILADELPHIA,
INFORM their customers aw<i the public, they
haye rerpoyed a part of tjieir merchandize to
\* il-nington.: Also, they h .ve th?ir ftqre open in
tie city. .At either place friends can be fup
piied, and their orders carefully attended to
By the C mxiWrlaiicl, from Hull, they have re
ceived a handsome £ffWrtment of articles, suitable
to tiv 3ppreaching season ; and expert to add to it
'<y ct£er fall iT:ips.
, Should the ficknef9 prevail in the central part of
the fity, that branch of their bufmefs will be re
moved to Germantcwn.
gj" The ccmrriunkation by post is open and rc
> a - i
S« ?. ttafImported infhe fliip MaiCciii;ster,
Bekjamin Shewell, Mailer,
From Bo'irde-aux, and for sale 'oy the fubferiber, -
No. ii Walnut Sreet,
EonrdcSu:; Brandy "J
Iriih nuuket claret in cases (_ Entitled to -
Medoc wine, irt do. Drawback.
£a at erne', do. do. J
Thomas Murgatrsyd. |
WHO HAS FOR SAt-E.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter caflca
Rosa 4°- t k > '
Pimento iu bagn
4600 bushels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24* twt&stf.
To be fold at Public Vendue,
To the iiighefl bidder, at the house of Mr.
William Evans, the sign of the Indian
in the city of 'Balthnoif, on the 25tli
day sf Oislober next, at 11 o'clock, A. M
About seven thousand acres of land, >
Ihe property of Williarii Bell, of Philadelphia,
iy'ng I'ttwetfn Reifler'j-town and Westminster,
Coinmonly called Little Winchester, (the turn
pike road runs through a eonfiderablc part ot
these lands) the traa begina about 17 mites
From Baltimore, within a U«v handred yards
of laid Reifler's-town, and extends to the dis
tance of al'out twenty -three milts "from Balti
.more, and litss on the main falls of Patapfico
river, from three to four miles thereon- Will
lie fold in tras6 or one hundred and fifty to
tliree hundred acre. There is a large propor
tion of meadow and wood land on each trail,
f >me of them highly improved, with excellent
buddings and fine gr,.fs.
A l SO
A feVen hundred acres ofi
land, called Clover Farms, witht« five miles of 1
•Elidenfhurg, efteeme<l very iOGd for Graft 1
Ri. hard Ponlonby.of Bladeis'lhurgli, will (he,* 1
this land to any person inclinfij to,purchafe. <
ALSO,
A trad of lalld of abolit thre6 hun- 1
tired and thirty a*res, within about two miles i
*nd a half or the President's house in the Fede
ral City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fine
hVh profpefl, froni which may be fcea the
city of Wafhinglon, filadenfburgh, AlexafrHria
and a part of George-town, and many milei
down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard Por.lon»
by, of BJadentburg, will also fbew this land. j
A liberal credit will be giveo for the greatefl
part of the purchase money. ihe term® will
be made known on the day ef sale. (
May 8 ! wyn
■ ■ i
Just Received,
From Batavia (via Providetite) <
a few B<S»sof Spices, conlifling of j
Nutmegs, Cloves and nace
for lile by
MLLIXGS& FRANCIS,
Pcnu llreet.
may 30 dtf
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 3,19, High-Street.
GEOR G£ DAVIS,
I>:.ING bulled for fom« time [ aft in pn-para
/ tions (or removing into his pr-ifent ho*jfe, has
been utidei thenecellityof until this day
informing the gentlemen of the Bar generally thro'
the United States, that his spring importation of
taw book* is now arranged and ready tor (ale, on
termsthat he trufls will entitle him to the like fre
fr'eence he has experieuced for fcvtral years past.
Catalogues, combining the most vuried collec
tion ever imported iMo this country, are print«l
and will he delivered on application.
June 17. » aaw 6w
City CommiJ/ioners' 1 Office,
"June 11, 1797.
IN pursuance of an ordinance from the felefl
and common councils, palled the 2id day qf
May last, appointing the city ('MiimilTioners,
ind prtferibing their duties, fetSion 9th,
NOTICE IS HEKEBY GIVEN,
Tl\at the city is divided into live ditlri«£ls,
eaeh to be under the fuperintendance of one of
the city commilfioneri, whoisto be individually
reiponfible for the cleanliness of fame, and
are as follow.
DriftrisJl No. 1, From the south fide of Ce
dar-street, to the north fide of Spruce-llreet, un
derth® superintendence of Nathan Boys.,
a.. From" the north tide of tiptuceTftreet, to
the north fide of VValnut-flreet, under thefuper-
Mitendence of Hugh Robert «
3.'Froin the north fide of Walnut to tbefouth
of.ttigh-flreet, under the superintendence ot
Joseph Claypoole.
4. From thi north fide of High-fluent, to the
nOrth fidr of Mulberry street, under the super
intendence ef William Moulder. ♦ «
5. From th<s north fide of MulWtrry-ftreet to
the ntitth fiele of Vine-llreet, under ijie fuper
».tendence of Nicholas Ilicks.
The clraningof High-street td be in conwnon.
2i stated meeting of the city comiaiflion
jra is held at the Cld Court House, in High
ftreet, evfry evening at 5 o'clock.
July r 4 . eoim
Stands for Draymen, Iffc.'
I>l pnrjuar.rt of an Ordinance from tbeSelecl and
Common Councils,btarnig date the lid day of
April. 1797, providing for tbe afpointine.it of
(j:~ Gpmmifiofterj, Ltc. Seel, tbe 1 stb.
TIE following places are fixed upon by the
L fo'rd City Cnmmiffioners for Stands for
Draymen and their Horses.
In Vine-street, eastward of Front-nreet, on
both
Saffafras, Higb.Chsfnut and Walnut-lttreetf,
eastward of Front-Ilreet,on the no.-th fide only.
Mulberry-street, south fide from Front to
Third-flreet.
Front-flreat, east fide from Vine-street to
alley.
Front-ftr'eet, from opposite to Black hortt al
ley to Hamilton's flores, east fide.
Waler-ftreet, weft fide from the north end of
Stamper's or Moore's (lores to Pine-street.
" Penn-ftreet from Pine to Celar-ftreet, weft
in aw bridge, north fide, east of Front-street,
Spruce, Pine and South (Ireeis, ejft of l'roat
street, south l'<te.
Dock-street, between Walnut-flreet and the
Hag Hone erodings, ealt.fide, opposite George
Otklty's. or--' • .t.
Secontl-ftreet, between faff«.ris and Vine
ftre'ts,
Fit'lh-llreet, «a!l fide from Chelnut to Mul-
Vicnv street*- _ ,
from Third to Fourth-ftrcet,
eail tictc - ... c r
No dray or horse to lland within ten feet ot
m ?s3bs FOR IUCKXEr COACHES.
Pine-street, north fide from Fourth to Fiith
ftt Fil'th-ftrrtt, between Chefnut and Walnut
ftl UrancMlrcet, north Tlihrd and'
Fourth ffreetsl f
r urn mwotfim
July 14.
A Literary Treat:.
fujl puliijhedhanilfomsly pf'mteJ on writing
piper, price I dollar, -
A new edition of tiiut popular and entertaining a
entitled f:
THE FORJiSTIiRS, a:i American Tile ; bring 1<
a focjuei to the history of |ohn Bull, the Clou
thier—ln aferiesof letters to a friend, witli the ad- f:
ditiop of two letters, alluding to recent political fl
tranfadlions in America.
Thy following extra#, from the-Clavis Allegoric*, t]
fnews the principal characters that ire introduced: n
John Bull, the Kingdom of England 11
His Mother, tSeClurch of, EnjUnd g
His Wife, the Parliament , tl
His Sifter Peg, the Church of Scotland d
His Brother Patrick, Ireland v
Lewi», the Kingdom of France A
Hjs the Old Constitution
His n«w Wife, the Navional Representation
JLord Strut, the•Kfatgdom of Sj<ain
Nicholas Frog, thV Dutch Republic
The Franks, ihi French Republic
The Fojefterg, the United States of Ameri< z S
'Robert Lurtiber, Ncw-Hampfhire t<
John Cbdline, Marfachufctts ; tt
Humphrey Plowihare,
Roger Carrier, Rhode Island S
Peter Bull Frog, New-York tc
Julius Caesar, New-Jersey
Willidni Broadbrhtif Pennsylvania
Caflimar, Delaware
Walter Pipewood, Virginia
His Gr* Kifon, Gtorge Wafhihgto*
Peter Pitch, Mi»rth Carolina
Charles Indigo, South. Carolina
George Trimy, Georgia
Ethan Greenwood, Vermont
Hir-ter Longknife. Kentucky ' *
Bla.\ Cattle, Negro Slaves
Rats, Speculators
.Mother Carey's Chickens, Jacobins .
popular ami entcrtairtfngfatirical histo
ry of Amarica is attributed td the Rev. Dr. Bel
knap, It hasa great fliure of originality and a
bonnd» with genuine humour. It is continued
down to the present time, and chnra&erifes those
late political tranfa&ions which have caused so
much uiwafintffs in America.
Sold by H. and P. RICE, Bookseller, No. 16,
South Second Street, and No. 50, Marke* fbeet.
June 26. §
LAW BOQKS, ~ 1
Latest London and Dublin Editions.
H. & P. RICE, Bookseller s,
No. 16, South Second, and No. jo, Market street,
HAVE just received by the lite arrivals from
London and Dublin, their spring importa
tion, copfiftingof a variety of the lttell and most
approved I.aw Books, which, added to those alrea-
dy on hand, forms the moftextenfive colleflion ct
er offered for fa'.e iu this country. They thei rfbre .
beg leave to noti<y, that from the nature of their
connedicnsin Dutilin, they are euablcd to felllridl
[editions (a»they have hitherto at the very
"lowed prices. The following are among the latell
publications. ,
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in, Chancery, I xJ.t.
Peake's Cases at Nisi Prius ; Ridgeway's Reports
in the time of Lord Hardwicke ; Floyer's Pio&ers
Pradlice in tbe Ecclefiaftieal Courts ; Barton's
Treatise on a Suit in Equity ; Tidd's PraiSlice of
the ®ourt of King's Bench in Personal Aftions,
parts complete j Ward's Law- of Nations; Cruile
on Use» ; modern Report*, n vols. London edi- |
tion.
H. and P. Rici expert to receive by the firft ar
rival from New-Vork the 6th vol. complete of
Purnford and East's Reports, the ad part of Gil
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
«ew publications. •
June 16.
The History of Pennsylvania,
BY ROBERT PROU9,
IS now in the press, and will be publilhed,
with ill convenient expedition, hy Zi-cha
r IAH Poulson, jun. No. 30, Chefqut-ftrect,
Philadelphia, where l'ubfcriptions will continue 1
to ba received, ami at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed propnfalt, until the
work is ready forthelubfcribers.
July 18. lawtf
Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co.
No. 8 Cbcfnut-Street,
Rave tor Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly aSbtted, very low on
short credit. '
March 6. $
Richard and James Potter
HAVE removed their Counting House to No.
45, South Fifth-ftrcet.
uguft 2. w&f6t
Lancaster, Harrijbargh Carli/le,
Shippenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
THE public are requested to take notice, that
the partnerlhip which has f«r sometime fub
fiiled betwe»m Mathias Slough of Lancafler, and
William Geer, js now dissolved . bat, not as M.
Slough infinnates to the public without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fub
.je& from M. Slough to W. Gacr, dated the 19th
December last. a recital of which is sot now deem
ed necessary. Any gentleman who wilhes to be
more circumflantially informed of the merits of
, this business, by applying to W. Geer may have
the perufabwf M. Slough's letter, can l>e
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfedly jtifti§able in attaching him
felf to any other person in the profecutkin of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippeuf
urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
phblic were pleated to confer ou the firft effurt in
this buGnefs, William Geer, in conjumaioD with
Meflrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
to prosecute and carry it qn, with ev -ry care, at
tention anddifpatch that a zoal to oblige the pub
-1 lie can possibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horfi-s. and every appurtenance to
render the passage Jafe and ibmmodious, inform
p thofa wnvi wiih to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
l George Weed's, the sign of the White Hi.rfe,
lyiarkct Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancafier, Harrifburg,
Carlifie and Shippcnfburg. The fare as hitherto
1 established.
For the further accomm»dation of the public,
' a Stage will start every Wednel'day from the house
: as Samuel Elder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thur'day,
1 and return from thc"ce and arrive at Harrifturg
every Saturday, so that deftined for
• I.ancafttr or Philadelphia, may proceed o* Mon
days.
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancafler. Jan. 27, 1797-
f N. B This L'ir.e of Stages tfarto from tha
house as William Ptmc, in Lancafler. or. every
Tuesday al.'U Saturday morning at 6 o'ekujt, pro
-1 eccditig to the westward; and from the house of
Ml-. Samuel EM- i in Herriiburj} every Wedncf
day morning, 0:1 the fame evening arrivcs'at Pa
trick Cochran's irt and returns
I i'rorj ther.ee on every Thuifi.'ay ; perfoi-ming the
fame routine daily a> in its £ur from Philadel
phia. . mwf /
t O 'B E 5 O L B,
And pojejfum given intotedia'tly, F ,
ALARof-.' two Uory brick Houfe,haridforre!j-
Ctuated in Princeton. There are four rooms
and a !ars£ entry ow each floor, and flve.roor.rs in
the garret", a range of back buiUings 51 feet .in.
length, and a piazza of 57 feet. There is a y.uttip.
in tiie yard, an excellent kitchen garden, at the
farther end of which are a carriage house and two
(tallies, one of which is new, 44 feet long, with
flails in the two flables for ii) horses. The heal
thi*efs and pleafar,tutfs oi its situation, and the
number of genteel and agreeable, families in and J
n«ar the town, render it a defiratile retrceat for a
gentleman frcin the city. The commodioufAefji of r
the house, its central position, and the largcnrfs of
the lUbles,make it|evcvy way fuitaMeforatavcrn,for g
which it has alwars been confiderd as a czpitai' t
fta.id.' Inquire on the premd'es, of c
v ISAAC SNOW DEN. f
Princeton, An>». 2;. 29 —dtw2awff d
nTCTT ICE. b
TF TnEOT O'Hara, who some years fineekcpt 2
School ff t the Nipe Bridges, Queen's County, Eaf
tem Shore, Maryland, be living, hu is hereby rc- \
minded to call oq, or to, the Rev. Ambrofc d
Marshal, near Warwick, Cicil County, Eastern
Shore, Mary-land, from whom he will receive iu- I
tereftinjc information. u
A/trvJl 4. mw&f4\v
City oi" Walhington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City. ~
A magnificent dwelling-house ac,ooo ddllirs,
it. oafh 30,000, ire _ 50,001
I dity> 15,000 & c»!> 15,000 40,00#
1 ditto 15,000 £c caih 15,000 30,000
I ditto 10,000 & ca(h 10,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & caih 5,000 io>ooo
1 ditto 5,000 & ealh 5,000 xo,doo !
1 cast prize of »0,000
s do. 5,000 each,are • 10,000
10 cia. 3,000 - - ie,ooc
10 do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
100 do. 50 - 4 10,000 1
400 do. 15 * 10,000 (
1,000 do. 10 - 10,000
15,000 do. 10 - 159,000
16,7.59 Prizes.
33,161 Blanks.
5c, 000 Ticket#, at Eight D»Uar», 4110,oo»
N. J3. To'avonr those who may taki a quan- 1
tity of Tick Mj he prize of 40,000 dollars will be 1
the tajT dra .7* ticket, and the 30,000 the last 1
1 but ONI :
And approved notes, securing payment in either
mi&.y or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received for any number not lets than 30 tick
ets. 1
This Lottery will afford an elegant fpecimcn of
the private buildings to be eredled in the City of
Waihingtcm—Two beautiful defines arc already
(defied for the entire fronts on two of the public
lquares; from these drawings it ispropofed toereA
two centre and f our comer buildings .as soon
fible after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel 1
Lottery. A nett dedu&ion of five per cent, will
b» made to defray the neceJlary expenses of print
ing, &c. and the furplas will be trade a part of
the fund intended for the National Umverfity, to
be ereded within the city of Washington.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the paymoit of the
Brizes, ire held by tha President and two Direct
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount of the lottery.
SAMUEL IiLODGET.
Tiekctsmay be had at the Bank of Colum
bia ; tf James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter
Gilman, Boston ; of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
and of Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry.
f mwf
From the Otfego Herald.
CAUTION.
WHF.REAS a combination of men in this
county have undertaken to enrich thtm
felves,hT fabricating titles to fundr/ valuable traSs
of land, She propei»yof gentlemen living-in New
York, Philadelphia, London and Paris, for which
trails of knd large sums of money have been paid
to those fraudulent men, by innocent purthafers
It is therefore just that public information Ihould
be given, to the end, thatth. injurjd may fetk re
dress while the reen have property, and aue to be
found. Those who have been discovered are Trft
man Ha-rifon, Joseph Witeomb, fatd now to rc
fide in the county of Saratsga ; Thomas Kelly ar.d
several otheri who go under fictitious names. It is
supposed that the lands offered fcr sale on those fa
bricated titles, are at ltaft worth fifty thousand
dollars. Such as we haveafiual knowledge of are
as follows : Lots No. II and 12, Otfego patont,
thcufand acres each, the adsai property of William
Dellwyn, now of London ; lots No. 58 and 64,
fame patent, thousand acres each, the property of
' Mr. Chaumont, now of Paris, and lames Averill
• and others, o! tWs State. There is some grounds
' to suppose that the lands of Richard Wells and
• Charles Wharton, of Philadelphia, ire under their
5 management. —The'Vrinters will do well to give
■ this a place in their papers, as well to caution the
1 public against purchaling those tandf, as also to de
• prive those men in future from rmpofujg on indivi
- duifs, which their education and address have en
s abled them to do heretofore. Witeomb has been
" a (hepkeeper of some note in this eountry.
- The following affidavits will let in a clear point
of viewtht wickiidnefs of those men,which vvhtn
- the public have perulcd, will induce them to ex
e cuTe the intciference of Wm. COOPER.
Otfego, JulyiSth, 17».7-
1 Thomas Kelly, of tl * County of Otlego, hav
r ji-jr been, led into an error, by John Witeomb and
i Truman Harrifon, of the fame County, to sign a
1 deed to thsm, for iot No. 58, Otfego patent, which
i was the property of William T. Franklin now Mr.
- Chamont's and others ; ind further tl>e laid Joseph
- and Truman did pcrfuade me to do this against my
inclination, which was made cut on the icth day
d of November, 1793, or set back tWo years so a»
o to bring it to that time ; and further the name of
n Pardon Starks to that deed was a fictitious name,
e there being no such perlon there. To this I make
*t voluntary oath. THOMAS K.ELLV.'
19th July, 1 797-
y On the 19th July, 1797, came personally before
;, me , Tlioma- Kelly, the fubfenber to the above af
-0 fidavit, and made solemn oath that it contains noth
ing but tb* truth
c, FI.fHU PHIMNEY, Justice of the Peace,
e On the 18th July, 1797. cam; before me Jacob
1- Kibby, a person by me well known and worthy of
f, good credit, who on his solemn oath did fay, that
? two o'f the parties abovementioped did make ap
r plication to Rim this deponent, some time in the
1- winter of 1796, to make them a deed for two thou
sand acret of land in the Otego patent, and pro
niifed this deponent a snare ol the profit*, on the
sale of raid lands, for his so doing j and thjt they
,3 madeaypliraticn several times for the fame purpo'e,
y which furvicss this deponent as often reiufed, de
i- daring to them that he had no right to lauds, and
if coukldo no such thing ; which daring attempt on
f- this depourtit's integrity he had related anoong his
- friends several tiHwjs, previous to making this affi
„ davit. JACOU ICIBBEY.
r. Sivrt-ii before mc,
1- IELIHU FHINMEY, Justice of tl? Peace.
-\u 2 . 3. JIW4W.
Will be Landed,
From onboard the fliip A&ive, Capt.ELAiß>€rom
10 bales white Rufiia clean Hemp
, m xcalks Clover Seed
For S*)c > y
Thomas Herman Leuffer, g
North I'it ill (Uect, No. 34.
Time''■%(>. *
William Blackburn, A
LOTTERY and BROKER'S OFFICE "
No. 64 foutlt Second - reet.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 11, which
commenced drawing the 19th May, VOR
SALE. The price of tickets will rire in propor
tion ns the dnwing advances, particularly on ac
count of the five firft drawn tickets, prizes of
four thoUsand dollar*. each, on the iait day oi
drawing. *
Check Books kept for examination 3nd petyfter
ing, in the Canal, No. %,, £i'y of Washington, No.
2,- arid Paterfon Lotteries.
| , Also, tickets for sale in the Schuylkill bridge and
Pcrk:om«i Br.idge lotteries, which will begin
diving i* the course of the fumxner.
The bufitieft of a Broker in all kinds of Stock,
Bills, Notes, Lands, &c- &q. tianfa&cd v*ith the
utmost attention.
June 2 tu&f
Etfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No 40 Sou:h Second street,
[Price 31 Cents]
A Vifiw of the Causes ana Confeqiten
ces of the present War with France.
Ey the Honorable Thomas Eksrine.
May is $
SfATE TRIALS. ;
Sold b W. Yoong, Bookseller, No. s*, South Se- <
-1 cond-ftreet, f
The Pennsylvania State Trials, \
CONtaining the impeadiment, trial, and acquits (
| a* of Francis Hopkinfsn, Judge of the Court of (
Admiralty, and John Nicholfou, Comptroller Gen- ■
eral—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, 3
dollars.' ,
W. Young has for sale, a |»neral assortment of
Books. Also, Stationary, retail ar.d bf the pack- .
ege, well aflortfcd, and entitled to the drawback if (
axparted. July 7 —* ,
- *' " ' ' 1 1 - -- (
r'HESUSSCRIBER having been appointed by
1 the Envoy Extraordinary and Minitier pleni
potentiary of his Britannic Majetty, General Agent
lor aflifting Britilh creditors, and luch particular a
gentsasthey may specially authorize, in profcout'tig j
their claims before the cwmmiflioners for carrying i«-
to cffc€t the sixth article oi the Treaty of Amity, Com
-1 merce and /Navigation between his Hritannii hegefty and
the United States of America, hereby «ives i*mcc that
he has opened.his office at his house the foutli east
corner of Chefout and fifth streets, Philadelphia,
where he is ready to recJve all claims or initru£tions
for claims with the voucheis aud documents thereof,
for the purpose oi bringing forward the fame agree
ably so the rules and orders which the board may
think proper to prescribe.
And as it will bt for the interest of all concerned,
that- the several claims be so Rated, and support
ed, as to prevent the delay which would arise from
the necelTiiy of obtaining further information, or ad
[ ditional materials,fiono periods residing at a difiance,
j the general agent think* it his duty to add, (t«r the
direAion chiefly of those, who, not having employ
r ed particular agents, may leave the prosecution of
their claims to his charge and management) that all
such claim* ought in paiticularto Cei torth—
id. The ptouer dcfciip;ion and fitnation of t?v
•teditor or claimant, end original debtor, refpett
* ivcly.
t- ad. The date aqdnature of the original contra# or
debt.
gd. When, in what manner, and to whatextent,
- the creditor or claimant wis prevented or impeded,
r by the proyifion, operation or defetl of law, the
; decisions and praftice of courrs, or reflraint of exe
cution, from recovering payment of Ihfc debt in
qtieftiom
4th Thelofsand damage incurred or sustained,
in cunfequence of such impediments, whether the
fame may have arisen from the infolvcney., change of
fituatton, or dearh of the debtor, the loss of legal
s remedy fiom Upfe of time, or othercaufes impairing
. the value ami fecurityof ihe debt, which would n®t
6 have so operated if such impedimenta had notexifled.
And sth The particular grounds and reafont on
which the claimant maintains, in the terms of the
> treaty, that "by the ordinary coorfe of judicial pro
ings, the creditor cannot now obtain and actually
hare and receive full and adequate coinpenfation" for
the lofifes and dj*.Miges so fuflaiued.
The general agent thinks it his d ityjnrther to fug
e gell that the fsveral claims ous>ht to be accompanied
and supported by the affidavits of the claimants duly
- sworn and regularly atreficd, both as to cxiflcnce
i of the debts claimed, and other
s as may be Within their ov.n knowledge rcipcCtively.
/\iid wherever the claimants in ftatingthe nature of
d their evidence (whtthmuftin every nvflance be the
e beftof which the cafe is capable) have occasion to
refer to thetetlimony of witnesses, it will be proper
L i toapprifetbe general agent of the names and places
of residence of fi*ch witneffesand the faftsto be efla
f blilhed by their tefhmony.
1 JVm. Moore Smith.
!s PhilidelpMs, June Bih. 17Q7. d
d r For Sale,
e Th/j( will known place, called f r ANDEB&iFT's
e i- i- k a Y,
- Ne(harainy cre«k, 18 miles from Phita-
U ladelphia, on v lfcc New York post road,
- containing 74 acre? and 94 perches. Upontht
n premife6 are a large two ltery stone hoult occu
pied asatvern, and a good one story iionekit
,c chen, a Urge frame flat!? with a good threfliinp
n floor, and Vome out byildings—alfo a well of
good \yater, and an excellent ice House. On
this place is a mofl elegant fnuation for a gentle
man's feat, commanding a view of the Ncfham-
J iny to its jun«slion wiih the lselawa»c, and thence
a icrofs to the Jerfcy (hore. It has the privilege
j, of one half the toll received from the btidge.
r For terms applv to the SoUctiber,
MOR DEC AI LEWIS,
y y«V 14- .It^wtt.
) COLUMBIA HOUSE
" Boarding School for young Ladies,
e, iy TRS. GKOOMBRIDGE with much pleaf
ic IVi ureand refpefl, returns Her fmcere ac
knowledgment for the liberal encouragement
(he h3S received during four .years rcftdencc in
" e Philadelphia ; and allures her friends aiwl the
public, To far from intending to -decline her
3 * school, flie has made a superior arrangement far
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars.—Every branch of ufeful and p-lite
f educatisnis particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groomb-idge and mafturs excelling in their
'' rcfpcilive profriuons.
r Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797-
3 . Thtfmiatlnn is perfeflly healtlsj ; aud made
ie more agreeable by an exientNe gai deii and iot
y of'J;r<)und adjo 'iing the houle.
I' Jujl Pitblijhsd,
id And to be h-id of MefTrs. DaV.ftu, Campbell,Rice,
»n Cary, and the other pricipal BooVfcllers in
is city,price onu• dollar, twinty-f ve cents,in hoards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.'
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, u i).
Jennie. •
HAVE fOK S.v I. E—— «r
fHopuadf,
Excellent Coffee in Tierces, aud
C Bartei*.
A Imal! parrel of nice cocoa iti bags
* few punelieonF Jamaica fpirirs,' fov.wh proof
Superior Teneriffe; wine-, old and in Madeira pipes
An invoice of jewellery and hosiery to be fold by
the' package
A few lu mpirs ol befl. cbecfe.
T"'y 17- ' dtf.
The Subscriber has fir Sale,
A large afi'ortment <sf India Muslins,
ccarfe and fine
India Calicoes
Sooty Ronaalls
B uj Cloths and Chcclts
Bandanna Handkerchiefs
Blue rid and Gilli'Hajidlccrchiefs
Ai) invoice-os IriSi I.ineus and Sheetings, weU
a Sorted
A box of Diapers
■V.k Umbrellas
Two boxes of fine Spicei, cotaining Nutmegs,
Mace and Cloves
Black Pepper of fir ft quality
East India Ginger v
Java Sugar'
A quantity of Madeira Wine
Ditto of Gin
Roll Briniftone
Mordecai Lewis.
Aufu/l i 7,. swim
Higgins' Specific
FOR THB
PREVENTION AND CURE OF THE
YELLOW FEVER.
T7VER. since this disease m&de such ravagesin thij
-ili city and New-York, the author lias turned hit
attention to its caufea and cure.—The result of his
em}turn??, has convinced him that the reason why so*
few persons recover from its attacks, are fr<-mi its
not being well understood, and the consequent
wrontj method taken to cure it. He is persuaded
that the exceflive bleedigps and rpercuri#! reatment
of the Faculty is highly injurious, and that the on
ly rational mode of treatment is by the life of proper
acids. Convinced of this he offers his Specific as a
certain remedy, if ufei according to the dire&ions.
To be had in bottles, at one dollar each, of the
inventor Geo. Higgins, Cherry flreet, two doors a
bove Ninth street, (late manager of Jackson and
Co's Medicine \Varehoufe, London) ; by y. Lc
blaaCy No. 2r 6 ; IV. Griffith, No. 1 7*. Pearoe, No.
21, South Third street, T. Stiff,\ No. New street,
near Vine street, andy. Sales y No. 36, Race street.
Aug. 25. tuths it
COUGHS7COLDS, ASTHMAS, and
CONSUMPTIONS.
Just received, by Wm. Griffiths,N».i77,SoutW
Second-street, e fre(h supply of
Genuine Bal/am of Honey,
A Medicine invented by the late Sir John Hill
(who knowledge as a Botanist procured hi™
the appellation of the Linnaeus of Britain) and is
' .onfidered in England as 3 certain cure for the above
compliintsi.it is ajfo of fingirlar efficacy in the
1 Hooping Cough,
It may also be had retail of W. A. Stok»j,N<«.
' 61, South Second-street, and T. STirr, 55, Ne
w bottles at 75 cents each. f
• Wm. Griffiths having observed the happy ef.
: fe& of the medicine, (several cases of cures hav
j ing come within his own knowledge) and the great
I demand';for it >has induced him to order a large
supply, a part of which he has jufl received.
. JuruJ 3. lawjw
30 Dollars Reward.
r 1 1
RAN away on Satutday last, two indented Ser
vants, Gilford Dally, a mulatto boy, abefct 17
• years of age, a Aim light built active fdlptr, can
read and write,five feet feren or eight inches high,
t has a heavy countenance ; had on a fuftian coatee
and trow for s, a high crowned hat, fine (hoes &c.
Allan Hellons, a black man, about 24 years of
I age, five feet J even or eight inches high, a thick set
f cluaify built fellsw, * y about the breech-;
I had*on a faltor's blue jacket lined with
U dark striped vest, fuftian trowfers, high crowned
t hat, coarse shoes, &c.; each of them had leveral
. {hirts and several other cloathes with them. Thir
fi ty Dollars will be paid for the runaways or 15 dol
c lars for each, and reasonable charges, oa delivering
- them at No. 54, North Third-street.
y The black fellow is aboot a year from Lewis
r Town, in the County of SufTcx, state of Dela*
ware, and has taken the boy with him,
£ July 31. mtu&fjw
» To be. SOLD or RENTED,
e
« A L"VRGE 3 Story Brick House, on the
'• x\- South fide of Filbert street, between
lf Eighth and Ninth, lately occupied as the Sur
c veyor (general's Office.
° The Building is 3&.sect front and 35 feet deep,
a the lot liofeet deep, with the privilege of a nine
feet wide Alley txtending the whole length of
the k>t, to a tlurfy feet wide Court son Carriages
to turn in. The House is not jilaftered, and
may be turned either into one, or two dwelling
- Hoiifes. It is suitable for a large Manuuflory,
or would mike a good Tavern. Immediate
pofleffion» will be given,
Apply to No. in, Chefnut-Street.
A«g. ?i. cod4t.
Mujical lnjlruinent Manufactory,
No. 167, Arch-Street.
T TARPER,harpfichord„ grand, portable gra:«d,
~ jn fid '-board, pier table, and square piai;o tor*e
3 f male r frors London, returns thanks to his irienda
„ and the public, for their liberal encouragement,
e . and hepes that by his afliduitv and attrntit nto ey~
cry branch of his bufnefs, to it erit a coiitimianCc
of their favors. Piano fertes made on the newest
"" and mcft approved plans, with prdals, pater.t,
,C swell, and French harp* flop, v/htch heft'.tteis
himfelf will L-e found pfi trial by unprejudiced
judges, to be equsil if not lupericr to any Impertk
ed, and twenty per cer.t cheaper. Ar ( y in/lrn
nv.nt pnrchafed of him, if aot approved of in
twelve months, he w ill exchange.
N. B. All hinds of Mafic.il inilruments made*
'• uned, and repaired with the greatest accuracy,
f- d.fpaich, and on the molt reasonable teiitu, n.r
c- ready money oniy.
at 'Second hiiid Piano Fortes taken in eschangt.
in , May o.c . ■ ,
cr Forty Dollars Reward.
jr AN away from the fubferiber on the fee
er Jtv onddiyof this init. July, a Moiatto Man,
te named Will Bowzer, about forty years of age,
s - five fdet levtn or eight inches high> rather
■' r chunky made ; had on when Ix went away, a
drab colored cloth Hi iped purple trow. t«
and ja !:et. It is probable ' he will change hi«
cloat!'esj as he took a number with him. The
>!e fai.l felfow ijormeily belonged to Mr. Cliarles
ot Blike of this place; and it is expected he ha»
made towards Jones's Neck, In the Del,-.i are
State '-.Any perl'i n apprehending (he ftid set
' low, aud feenring hiiv so that J can Kt him
:e .' gain, fhai» receive the above reworii if taktn
Vj «ut of the county, and Twenty Dollars if in
the county, a*d all re-afonable charges if bro't
IC iIOIBO*
JESSE REED,
Qusen Ana's County, Miry land.
July 3. w jt