of t|)c 3EntteDii&iate AND Philadelphia Dai
Num'jsj! 1,571.]
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DRY GOODS.
C Fouenoon —Edward Fox, No. 56,
ir j ) south Front-flreet,
on a )~\ Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 65
C. South Front-{tree t.
f" Forenoon—John Connelly, Old City
m-. ri > Auflion, No. 73 fouA Front-street.
"0 1 Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
C. ißj High-street.
j N -»
tj>, ~ ( Forenoon—Edward Fox.
Ur J "J \ Afternoon—John Connelly,
p ■ . ? Frtrcnoon—-*Will\mi Shannon.
r ' 5 Afternoon—John Connelly.
Satsrday AfternooA—Peter Benfon.
For- Savannah,
*5. The fail failing ship,
SWIFT PACKET,
r)V'-^'/-H%, PATR,CK Gribbim, Mafler,
Now lying oppofitethe mouth
of Frankford Creek, has handfoAe accommoda
tions for paflengers, and will fail on or about
rhe iftef O^ober.
For freight or paflVge apply to the mafler on
board, or of the fubferibers at Frankford, 5 1-2
miles ficjn Philadelphia.
Nalbro Ss* J. Frazier.
Frankford, Sept. 18. dtiftO-
For HAMBURGH,
'"I "'HE Copper Bottomed Ship
\J~Qb t~ 1 ? A VOid T E, John
|v\' '•"'iVwiW Thompson, Miller, now at
'[ wharf, and will be rea
■ a T 10 Me in gn Monday ntxt,
pa. t of her cargo being engaged
and reidy to go on board. The ship is so well
known, that it is needless t<T describe her. She
is now in compleat order. For Freight or Pal",
sage, pleafc to apply at Mr Jeremiah Warder's
Compting House, No. u, North Third fireet,
or to the Matter on bord.
August 30.
' For SALE,
On board the said Ship, Swedish Iron, afTorte.l
Hollow and Window Glufs, Demyjohns, Wrap
ping Paper for Sugar Refiners, Hugs of 1 & 2
Quality. Pleai'e to apply as above.
wf&m+w
White Havanna Sugar.
1461 boxesS of very fuperiorquality now difcharg
-7 r hhds. 1 ing from the Ihip Hamburgh
at.Walnut Streit -wharf—and for {Ae hr/
Pbilip Nick/in if Co.
N. B.
THE SHIP
Hamburg Packet,
Silas Swain, Mailer,
Sale, fr Charter.
Aug. 14. eotf
T O B E~~S O L D~
And pojfijfton givw immediately,
ALAKGE cwo (lory brick Houfe,luuidfomely
situated in Princeton. There are four rooina
and a large entry on each floor, and five rooms in
the garret, a ranee of back bu ildiogs 51 feet in
length, and a piazza of 57 feet. There is a pump
in the yard, an excelleut kitchen'garden, at the
farther end of which are a carriage house and two
{fables, one of which is new, 44 feet
flails in the two {tables for 27 horses. The heal
thiness and pleasantness of its situation. and the
number of genteel and agreeable families in and
ntar the' town, rejider it a desirable retreeat for a
gentleman from the city. I'he coromodioufnefs of
the, house, its central position, and the largeness of
the (tables, make way fu it able for a tavern,for
which it ha* always been copfiderd as a capital
Hand. Inquire on the premises. of
ISAAC SNOWDEN.
Princeton, Anp;. 25. 29 —dtwaawtf
*" NOTICE.
IF Thedv O'Hara, whofome years
School at .the Nine Bridges, Queen's County, Eas
tern Shore, Maryland, be living, he is hereby re
minded to call on, or write to, the Rev. Ambrofc
Marshal, near Warwick, Cecil County, Eastern
Shore, Maryland, from whom he will receive in
terefing information.
August 4. mw&f^w
the s übsc ribe rs ,
ASSIGNEES OF JAMES BREENLEAF,
HEKEUY give notice, that they have disposed
of affigned to them for the securing
the payment of the note«, acceptarices, and en
dorfenients given by Edward Fox, for the use
ofthefeid James Greenleaf; and the holders of'
such notes, acceptances, and endorsements. are
hereby notifyed that the fubferibers will fsttle
with them for the amount x>f their refpeitive
claims, both principal and interest, at
any time before the icth day of Otflober next;
after tvhich dav, the holders not applying, will
bee/duded, agreeably to the terms of aflign
mcrtt.
Applications to be made at south-east corner
of "i)otk and Second streets (the Dock-itreet
Me), between the hours of eleven and one o'
mlockevery day, Sundays excepted.
Henry Pratt, '
Tho. JV. Francis,
John Miller, Jun. ■
John yljhley,
Jacob Baker.
Philadelphia, Augtfft 18, 1797. 1 d
The Inhabitants of the Diftrid
of Southwark,
ARE informed that a Coachee is provided, to be
kept at the Constables' office, the north east'
turner of Front and Almond streets, where the
friends of those sick persons who deflre to be re
moved to the City Hospital, arc requested t6 make
application—Alio, a Hearfc wiU be kept in readi
neis ft r the removal of the dead. *
JONATHAN- PENROSE.
N. B.— The Poor, who wish to remove to the
Tents 011 Schuylkill, may be furntfhed lyith orders
by applying ns above. Aug. 20
COMMISSIONERS' SALES,
ripHH CommifTioners of the counties ofl.y
---i comirfg and Northumberland, have given
notice that they intend t» proceed to the sale of
lands, for the arrearage of taxes, on the 7th of
September next.
try The different printers in this city will
render an efTential fervite to" a great number of
individuals by pubhfhing this notice.
Aug. jS.
PHILADELPHIA
WANTED {
B-lls on Amflerdain, at a fight not exceeding six
ty days, and with approved Indorfers, to
jf two hundred tWcfand guilders—for which cash
w r ill be paid at rite rate of thirty eight cent? a guil
der—Applications to be n- ide to George bimpfen,
Esq. .'-afhier of the Bank of the United States.
Sept- 4t- dtf
Young Hyson Tea.
40 cheftj of a superior
xoo do. of Hyson,
Imported in the Woodrop Sims, and for sale "by
the fubferibers, corner of Second and Pine
street.
C. Haight.
June 11.
Imported tn the Jhip Pigou,
And lor sale by John Morton, No. 116, South
Front-street,
Hyson
Hyson Skin
Young Hyson T 1 EAS
Imperial J
April 20. eotf
This Day Published,
And to be fold by WJLLIAM YOUNG, corner of
Second and Chefnut streets,
Price y%ths of a Dollar,
Observations on lertain Documents
Contained i* No. V and VI of
" The History of the United Status for
the year 1796,"
In which th" cqarc.e or speculation againfl
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secret ait of the Treasuk, is TU—LY
REFUTED.
ir rlt re y Br hi us tit.
Th-s publication presents a coucife llatement
of the hale means praiSifed by the Jacobins of the j
-United States to asperse the characters of thof«
purfons who are confideredas ho (file to their difor
-1 garizing schemes. It alio contains the cor
respondence between Mr. Hamilton and Messrs.
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venab'e, on the fub
je(S of the documents alorefaid, and a series of let
ters from James Reynolds aad his wife to Mr. Ha
milton, proving beyond the poflibility of a doubt,
that the connexion between him and Reynolds,
was the result of a daring eonfpiraey on the part
of the latter and his associates to extort money.
Sj" A discount of one third from the retail price
win be made in favor of whole sale pur chafer?, for
cash. Orders to be addrefled t» Mr. Yowno.
August 2J.
The Norfolk Mail STAGE.
THIS Stage ftaits from the GEORGE Tavern,
at the corner •( Second and Arcb Streets, in
Philadelphia, every Tucfdat, TburfJay, and Satur
day, at 3 o'clock, in the nrorning ; arrives at Ho
ver the firft day, at Snowhill the second day, at
Northampton Court House the third day, and oji
the morning of the fourth day the passengers find
a fafc anl comfortable packet to convty thorn to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton fetry,
every Tuefdiy, Thursday add Saturday, and the
Stage starts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
MonJay, Wednesday and Friday ;'putsup at Snow
Hdf the firft night, at Dover the 2d night,and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day.
Thediftance on this route, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is So miles less than on any stage route
between tliofe place..
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road,
which is most excellent indeed. The proprietors
willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
paflenger, who, after having performed this route,
will fay that he ever travelled in a Itage for the fame
distance, so good a road in America.
August IT. dim.eotf.
TOtfE SOLD VERT CHEAP
A Light WAGGGN alr.j ft new, witha'frame—
and a pair »f harness (Enguih collars) has never
been used—price 90 Dolls.
A Horse 16 hands high, seven years old—and i
new chair, with a falling top and harness— 3 aoi
Enquire No. 3JI, Market-llreet
August 24. <inv
Philadelphia, IStbjuly, 1797.
NOTICE is hereby given, that separate pro
pofals with sealed covers will be received
at my office until the elevent'h day of September
next, to furnifh by contract the following ar
ticles for the use of the Army of the United
States in the year 1798-
First Contract for
2 Sergeants coati *|
a Musicians, do.
lo Sergeants vcfts Dragoons.
126 Privates coats
•26 Privates vests J
64 Sergeants coati
32 Musicians, do.
96 Sergeants veils
192 Woolen overalls Artilleriils
192 Linen overalls &
936 Privates coats Engineer*.
936 do., "vcfts
1X72 Woolen ovwalla
1872 Linen do.
144 Sergeants coats
■jt do.
216 Sergeants vests
432 Linen overalls
432 Woolen do. Infantry.
1893 Privates coats ,
1892 do. vests _
3784 Woolen overalls
3784 Linen do.
ift ContraiSt, for 1288 fhirts
11816 Privates do.
12600 Socks
2d Contrail, for 272 pair leather breeches
3d Contrait, for 272 pair hoots
4600 pair shoes, No. I
8009 pair do.'No. 2
4th Contrail, for 1032 Artilleries and Engi
neers hats
2108 Infantry do.
136 Dragoon caps
The whole to be delivered at the city of Phila
delphia, viz.
One fourth on or before the 15th day of Fe
bruary next.
One f»urthon or before the 15th day of A
pril next.
The remaining half on »r before the 15th day
of June next. ,
■"The articles are to be agreeable to Aich pat
terns as (hall be directed by the Secretary for the
Department of War.
Payments to be made as feon as the article
fliall be delivered, and palled infyeilion.
TENCH FRANCIS, Purveyor.
eotuthSep.
By John Fenno, N 0- ii j Chefnut Street.
Lately Published,
n 'if n vo Cprice one dollar in boards) fold
r?\ V YOUNG, corner of Second and
1 Chefnut flreets,
Colleftion of Papers on the fubjeft of
Jillious Fevers, prevalent in the United
States for a few ' 'ears past.
Compiled by NOAH IVbli'iTEß, jtw.
Containing letters fronvDo&ors Sear, a 1, Smith,
Bud, i'aylor, Ramsay, M/infon, Reynolds, Mitch
en,on contagion, &c. See.
If.
City Commijffioners Office,
August 29, 1797.
IN furfuance of an Ordinance of the Sclcd and
Common Councils, paired the 2id day of May last.
Propofah in writing will be received hy the City
Conamiffioncrs for one month from the ill of Sep
tember next, for letting to rent on leases for or.e
year to commence the firft day of fanuary next, tke
following public property of the city—
The wha fend landing on Vine Street,
Also 011 Safiafras, '
Mulberry,
And High Streets,
Chefnut and Walnut Streets, Draw .ridge, with
th« Scale and Fish Houses, Spruce, Pine aiid Cedar
Streets'.
The cellar under the City-Hill.
The Tavern at the middle ferry On Schuylkill,
with the lots contiguous thereto, (except so much
thereof as fliall be occupied by any ljuildings crecSl
ed for the use of the Collector of the Tolls, or be
neceffiii-y for the toll-gates.)
Anj?- 3 / 3tawim.
.'L O S 17~
ON the Paffyunk Road, between the Blue Ball
and' the city, a Fowling Picc#, with a brass
hairel and silver fight ;on the platepf the butt are
the lclters u Jamaica, 99" —ana on the barrel
1 near the loyc *• J.on<foii * anr} thf. Tv.ver stamp.
■ Whoever will return the aid plrre.io J 9 hn Bcnnard t
| atthefign of the B'ue Ball on the Padyunk Road,
or tho office of this Gazette, foall receive a reward
ol Four I'rench Crowns,
Sept. 12. *3t
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.""
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT agreeably si an aft of Congress of the
United States of America, passed at Phila
delphia, tke ißlh day of May, 1796 j laying du
ties on Carriage.", for the conveyance of persons,
which (hall be kept by or for any person, for his
or her own use, or to let out to hire, or for the
conveyance of passengers, the fevcral duties and
rates following, to wit:
For and upon every Coach, Ij jjpli.
upon every Chariot,rißlols.
upon every Pod Chariot, u doll,
upon every Pod Chaili', 11 dols.
upon every Ph'.eton, with or without top,
9 dols.
upon every Coachee, 9 dols.
upon other Carriages, having pannel worjt
above, with blinds, glasses or curtains,
9 dols.
upon f«ur wheeled Carriages, having fra
med pods and topi with steel fprkig«,6
dols.
Opon four wheeled Carnages, with wood
ei*.or iron springs or jacks, 3 dols.
upon Curricles with tops, 3 dois.
upon Chaifcs with"tops, 3 dols.
upon Chairs witi tops, 3 dols.
upon other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carriages, with lleel or.
iron springs, 3 dols.
For and u]»oii all other two wheel carriages, idols,
upon every four wheeled-carriage, having
framed pods and tops, and reding up
on wooden spars, 2 dole.
The Colle&orsof the Revenue for the firft Sur
vey of the Didrid of Pennsylvania, will attend
Haily, urttil the 30th day of Septemlier next, for
the purpose of receiving the du'ics tui Carriages, at
Germantown ; at the house of Daniel St. Clair,Efq.
in the County of Montgomery ; land at the houle
of James Chapman, Esq. iti tlic County of Bucks;
of which all persons pofftlfed of such Carriages are
tUfired to lake notice.
Notice is alio given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dis
tilled spirituous liquors, that licences will be grant
ed to them ; one licence for carrying on the busi
ness of retailing of Wines, in a ltfn quantify, or
in less quantities than thirty gallon-.—and one li
cence for carrying on the bulhiefs of retailing Spi
rituous liquors in less quantities-han 10 gallons, at
the fame t>me and at she fame places, by the offic
ers legally authorised to grant such licences.
WILUAM NIUHOLS,
Infpt-Aor of the Reverue of tho fird sur
vey of the DidriiS of Pennsylvania.
Office of Infpe&ion at 7
Germarttow, nth Sept. 1797- 1
IMPORT E D
In the ship America, James Ewinj, matter, from
Hamburgh,
Brown Hollands
White Piatilla*
■t Ticklenb»rgs
CoarfeXinens
Tapes
Looking Glades 7' • r
Glass Tumblers j inßafe *'
TOR SALE BV
George Pennock.
Au%ufl 14. jaw
An elegant House in Arch Street.
TO be let and entered on immediately a Urge
apd elegant house at ihe Corner of Arch and
Ninth Street. There are two drawing rooms
and one dining room—the largest is 31 feet by
26 —and two are so connedled by folding doors
as to make but one. Also, fl>/e bed rooms, be
sides 5 in the gtfrret, well finished for servants.
There are ftahles md a coach house, with evry
convenience for a fawiily.
in North Seventh street, or at No. Arch
Street,
Aug. re- aawjw.
PETER BORGER,
INFORMS his friends and the public in general
that he has removed from No. 129, corner of
Arch and Fourth, to No. 105 North Front, be
tween Arch and Race streets. ,
July 2". yiwa.w
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and thaa any other in
the Citv —
OF ] FJRIOUS SIZES,
From Bby 6 to 19 by 14,
By the Tingle Box or Quantity, may be had at'the
S ore of the Subscribers, corner of Arch and Front
ftrect,
[fames C. S'Sf Samuel W. Fijher.
Philadelphia, June j, 1797. |
THURSDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 21, 1793.
i'nfurance Company of the State
o£ Pennsylvania.
Office will be kept until further notice at
the School House in Germantown. The
Company Hill retain the room ia Chefnuj; above
Seventh flreet, where a person will att nd to re
ceive and give aniwers to applications, .very cay
from 10 until i o'clock.
Sept- 13. d^tjawtf
Bank of North America,
September %th, 1x797.
OV Monday next the No. ice* for all Notes or
Bills payable at this Bank,which fall dueonthat
and the enfuiny: 6 dap, will be l'crved on the Pay
ers: And the like Notices on every Monday, till
the further orders of the Dire«slo> s.—Perfon* will
ing to deposit N«tcs or Bills for Colleiiion, which
arc to fall due within the week, must themtalvds
undertake to pive nptice to the Payers. dtf
At a Meeting of the Board of
Property, June 6, 1797,
Present John Hall, See'ry.
Francis Johnlton, R.G- >-of land office
Dan. Brodhead, S. O- j
Nicholas Bettinger,
•versus ■ >
Santiuel Cisnningham.)
In this cafe the proof of service of notice be
ing insufficient, I-tisordered that notice be giv
en in one of the Philadelphia and York newspa
pers weekly, for at least eight weeks to the
heirs or afiignecs of S.wnilel Cunningham de
eeafed, to board on thefirft Monday
in November next, to ihew caul'e why a patent
ifcould net iffiie to Nicholas Bettinger for the
laqd in qiieftion. }
(A true Copy.)
JOHN HALL,
Secntary of tht Land Office.
Aug. if, *iaw)jw.
TO~BE SOLD,
And immediate pojfffion given^
A Convenient welT fiiiilhed Brick Tenement,
with a cook house and other cut houses, fitu
afcd in a pleasant part of the borough of Wilming
ton, in the State of Delaware—The lot of ground
has forty feet front on Weft-dreet, and extends
through the square to Paftute-ftreet, oa wkich b
ereded a liable and carriage hopfe.
ALLEN M'LANS.
Wilmington, Aug. 30.
Red Port Wine.
Just arrived, by the brig Iris, capt. Rhoides, from
Oporto,
Red Port WSne in pipes,hhds. and quarter cats
60 cwt. Cork, for sale by
Philips, Gramond, & Co.
J»!y "• S
The Partnerlhip,
UNDER the firm of FREEMAN i 5" Company,
is dissolved by mutual consent. All persons
having any demands against tUe said House are de
sired to render the fame to T. B. Freeman ; and
those indebted to the House are desired to make pay
ment to him—By whom business will in future be
oarried on,at huStorc, No. 39, South Front-dree*.
AngyJl 7. e«d4w
N O T ICE.
ALL those who have any claims againd the
edate of Joim Cole, Umbrella Maker, late
deceased, will apply within a month from the date
hereof, to Mrs. Cole, *t the south east corner of
Green 4nd Second streets, for their arrangement.
N. B. If all demands are' not sent in before the
expiration of the abovementioned time, th«y wi'l
not be allowed, as his property will bedifpofedof.
Sept. 9. , *3'
A PERSON OF INGENUITY, lately arrived
from Europe, wifces to find hare a place in
the quality of a Dire&or of a Glass-house, Chryf
tttl of ali kinds, having particular means for the
conftruifUon of the kilns, pots, &c. and poffefEng
likewifc the articles used in the Glals houses of
Et gland and France, having worked a long while
in mull of them. Every exertion will be made to
render the manufa«Slory deserving of public appro
bation— He, who wifhtfs to speak to him, will find
him at No. 275 Front-fticst.
Augryft 14. *4t
Jb\jr lale or to be let on ground
rent, §
A vnlunble Lot of Ground ;
OITUATE on tht north-east corner of Wal-
O nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State-
Houft'fquare. This list is fifty-one feet from
on Walnut flreet, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at
prefenl two small two story brick houses, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Also, for Sale,
Two three story Brick House/
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. situate on
Water-ltreet, between Mulberry and SafTafras
streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east
ward ninety-five sett, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches, 'l'hefe houses
ave the convenience of a public alley adjoining
on the n6rth fide, and are a very desirable situa
tion for a merchant, flour fa<slor,or others who
may have occasion for storage of goods. This
property will be fold on very reasonable terms
forcafh. For further information apply to the
printer.
July 31. t m&wtf
Just publiflied,
And to be fold at the Bcokftores of H. £jf P.
Kice, No. 50, Market-flieet 1 J. Ormrod,
No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet, and W. Young,
forner of Chefnut and Secohd-ftreets,
An accurate System of Surveyings
IN WHICH IS CONTAINED,
1. Decimal frsftions, in a plain, eorieif*j
and easy manner.
2. Theextrafljon of the square root.
3. Plajn trigonometry, redlangular and ob
lique.
4. An exail method to east up tin contents
of lands.
5.. Field surveying.
The whole beyig performed withoHt the use
of scale and compaflVt) on a table of logirithms.
Tti which is given some accruut of the variation
of the needle, and the causes rr" its attraction.
By SAMUEL MOORF..
AEI laying Duties on StampsY«llum y
Parchment and Pap sr.
A FEW copies of the above ait may be had at
the Office of the Gazatte of rtie Usiwd States, No
119, (.hefEWt-Areet. July t-f.
1 Hicrju'an Leuffer,
North v ifih ur#."t corner of Jvofth aliey, l*Jo. 34,
has for SALE,
red Bour<Je«ux Wine incaksaad
boxes, fix years old. *
VA'Hite Graven Wine in cafUs
Tictdenburgs
Russia' Sail Cloths
Ravens Duck *
Bag Linen , v
Hrffiaps
Diaper and Table Chtk V
-•impty bags
Cora 01 on German Cloth
•«n aiXortment of black, coloured Ribbosi
Fine German Lacea
About twelve tons Russia clean Hemp
Clover Seed
Italian Soap, in fmail boxes, for family ufs
Wwidow Glass Ausj. 2Q.—— 5a W
THIS DAY WAS PUBLISHED, *
And for file by 1 NOMAS DOBSON, at the
Stone Honfe, No. 41, folith Sec of id ftre£rt 4
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED.
Confining of a variety of Mifceilaneous Pieces Tor
the inftru&ion and amufrmeut of YOUNG PER
SONS—Six Volumes handsomely printed and bound
up in two volumes, price T»vo Dollirs. 1
The variety and fxcelleccc of thefa pieces arc
fych, that the booh needs onfy to be known ro be
universally esteemed one of the valuable pub
lications th t can be put into tlie hands of young
p«rfons. , * •
" Delightful talk to rear the tender thought.
To teach the .young idea how tu (hoot.
To pour t«<* frefh inftru&ion o'er the mind,
To breathe th' enlivening fpirit,and to fix
The generous purpose in the glowing breatt.'*
Thomson.
August 24. »iyrf4W
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED 7
By THOMAS DOBSON, at the Stone House,
No. 41, south Second street,
Letters and Conversations,
Between several YatM Ladies,on improving and in*
terefting fubjeils.
TTaeflated from the Dutch of Madtae dc Cam Lin
with alterations and improvements,
Printtd onJint paper, and neatly found,
Price one dollar.
AMIDST the tide of model* R»m»nces, painting
t*les »f extraordinary distress, or of defperatc or
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," and
which it would be for the honor of young ladies to
be Ignorant of, this little bosk comes forward to so
licit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the beunds of real life, the proper, b-taufc
elegant and natural 'dignity and importance of the pemabe
tbaraSer is exhibited in an interesting point of view,
and presents examples of real and attainable excel
lence.
The publißier was fomueh pleased with the per*,
sal, that he was persuaded he Ihould do a plealinf
service to the community by fending it -in o circu
lation. Anguft 14 —mw4w'
To Majlers and Pilots bringing up Vejftls
from Foreign Ports to this City.
VTTHereas sundry infringements have lately been
\ v made on the laws of this state for the pra»
venting pestilential or infectious diseases, either
from ignorance or inattention thereto, it is tho't
expedient at this time to publifti the following ex
tracts from the laws of lid April, 1791, 7th *J"i
Bth fe&ions.
HEALTH-OFFICE.
June 6th, 17,4.
Extratt of an aft for securing the city and port
of Philadelphia fern the introdnSion of peAi
lentiul and contagious diseases.
Sect. 7. And be it further enacted, that every
mailer or captain of any (hip o* vessel ewming from
sea (veflcls aClually employed n the.coaftirg trade
excepted) and bound to any port or place within
the jurildiClion of Pcnnfylvania'.lhall cause hislfcip
or vessel to bb brought to anchor, or otherwise Hay
ed in the dream of the river Delaware, opposite to
the Health-Office on State-lfland aforefaid, and
there to remain until he (hall have duly obtained a
certificate or bill of heal h from the Resident Phy
sician. And it, previeufly to obtaining such certi
ficate or bill of health, any mailer or captain (hall
fuffer his (hip or vessel to r than th*
said Health-Office to the city of Philadelphia, or
(hall land, cause or fuffer to be landed, or brought
on (hore, at any place or port within *his Cota
nrtmwcalth, or at any other port or place, with the
intent ol being conveyed into this Commonwealth,
any pcrl'on or persons, or any goods, wares ©r mer
chandize, or, if aftefr receiving such bill of health
or Certificate, he (hall tickle it or rcfuf;: to deliver
the fam<- to the Health-Officer, such matter or cap
tain (hall forfeit stqfl p-.y, for each and every such
offence, the sum (if five kundrbb dollars.
And the captain or .mailer of every Hup or ves
sel (hall fend a fafe arid commodious boat to bring
the physician on board, and (hall in like manner
convey him back 10 the Health-Office, after he ha*
concluded his official examination ; And while he
is making such examination, or in cafe any fubfl
quent examination by the Health Officer or Con
fnlting Physician, agreeably to the dire&isns of
thi- act, the mafteir or captain (hallexpofe or caule
to becxpofed to the fear ch of the Resident Phyfi
cian,or of the Health Officer and Conftiiting Physi
cian (as the cafe may be) each and every part of the
fliip or vessel, and (hall present to his view each
and every person or persons on board thereof, anJ
and (hall also true and fatisfaCtory answers mahe
so all such questions as the Resident Physician, &c.
at the tinle of examination (hall a(k relative to the
health of any port or place frem which the (hip or
vessel failed, or has since touched at—the number
of persons on board when the (hip or vessel entered
on her voyage—the number of persons that have
frace been landed or taken on board, and when
and whererefpeitivefy—what paribus on board—
s they haVe been daring the voyage, or (hall, at
the time of examination, be infeCted with any pes
tilential or Contagious disease—and what is the pre
sent state and condition of the persons on board
with rcfpcCt to their health or diseases. And ii
any maftenor captain lhall rcfufe to expose as afore
aid, to the fearchof any of tlie officers aforefaid,
n if he (hall ctneeal'any fid person, or in any other man
ner derive the proper officers aforefaid in bis
tich captain or mailer, for every such offence, (haU
forfeit and pay the sum of five hundred oo»-
laxs.
Sect. 8. And if aay person or persons whatfe
ever (the Resident Physician, inc. excepted) (haU
go on board any vessel, before the riiailcr thtreoS
bis received a certificate of health in the manner
direfled, every person so offending, (haU pay the
Um of ONE HSNDKED DOLLARS.
IT being absolutely necessary that the foregcinj
feilions C'.ould be punctually complied with, th«
fabfcribei;, in compliance with his duty, irtl.il ex
ad a rigoroes observance of the fame, or else be
undtr the neccffit.y »f pui'.ing the laws in force.
Wat. ALLRN, Health Officer of tit
Poxi of I'b'U*d*tphia..
J»'r 14. * «ii w
[VoZL'jXA XII,X|e jj
Thursday £VP.ning, S?pti mheh rt. f cv
~—~ " ' nal
To the Seti.iTF atid HoOse of Re-pr'Sei/- ju
TAftl'Ri of the Commonwealth of Penn
sylvania. mv
Gesi\leMeN, / a j
I HAVE considered, with great atten- tli<
tioo, the bill, entitled, " An aft to fegu- mc
late the general eleftions held within this by
Commonwealth and I now return it (hav- fw
ing been prevented from returning it at the rat
last ftffiioh, by an adjournment of the ge- re<
neral assembly, on the day when it was pre- an
fented to me) with a declaration, that Ido m;
not appr6ve thereof; and with the follow- mc
ing obje&ions, as the groutjd of my difap- fir
probation. ' • or
I. Because the bill not only operates, in foi
some of its provisions, expo/1 facto, enafting rej
a species of evidence to pro?e the eleftlve bu
rights of a certain class of citizens, which fu!
was not Contemplated at the time when re<
thofc rights were acquired ; but from the mi
extraordinary, and, in many instanCes, im- fh;
practicable, nature of the evidence itfelf, cv
such citizens may often be deprived of their to
constitutional privileges, though they have op
never incurred a forfeiture, and are not fu
chargeable with any negligence. tai
Thus, it is provided in the firft feftion he
of the bill, " That no person, who accord- an
ing to the laws of the United States, is
deemed an alien, shall be admitted to vote di
at any eleftion within this commonwealth, re
unless he ha* been previously naturalized ac- ra
cording to the direftion of a law of the U- pi
nited States, passed the twenty-ninth day of to
January one thousand seven hundred and cc
ninety-five; or (hall have been othcrwife an
naturalized previous to that time, and shall p(
produce a certification thereof, under the ve
seal of the court, wherein he has been na- bl
tnralized, or if othcrwife naturalized before pi
that time, then such certification, or so
OTHER WRITTEN EVIDENCE THEREOF, as fe
from the nature of such naturalization, such di
person may reafSnabh be required to produce by d<
any judge, or infp> or, or by any two eh Bars ar
qualified to vote at any such eledion 11" Now hi
in order to shew that the objeftion, which tl;
1 have stated, is well founded, it willb? b<
proper to take a retrofpeftive view of the C 1
evidence of naturalization, which was ori- ui
ginally established, for those cases that oc- fr
curredj before the fubjeft had been regulat- h:
*d by any exercise of the federal authority, a-
The 42d feftion r.f the Frame of Go- it
vernment, established in the year one thou- tl
farid seven hundred and seventy-six, declared el
« that every foreigner of good charafter y
who comes to fettle in this state, having al
firft taken an oath or affirmation of allegi- fc
ance to the fame, may purchase, or by o
ther just means acquire, hold and transfer u
lands or other real estate; and after one ri
year's residence, shall be deemed a free citi- tl
zen thereof, and entitled to all the rights e
of a natural born fubjeft of this state, ex
cept that he shall not be capable of being i«
eleftcd a representative until after two years si
residence."
On the thirteenth of January one thou- n
sand seven hundred and seventy-seven, an p
aft paflcd obliging the male white inha- e
bitants of this state to give assurances of o
allegiance; the form of an oath or affirma- d
tini"was prescribed ; and the justices were e
direfted to keep registers of the persons so «
sworn or affirmed, and to transmit the fame c
to the recorders of .deeds of the counties i:
refpeftively, who were direfted to record a
them. 1
In the years one thousand seven hundred {
and seventy-eight, and one thousand seven t
hundred and seventy-nine, other afts of a c
similar import were passed ; but effefting j
no material alteration in the point of view t
iu which the fubjeft now offers for confide- t
ration. '
But, on the thirteenth of March one thou- 1
sand seven hundred and eighty-nine, an aft i
was passed to repeal all the laws of the com- 1
monwealth, requiring an oath o.r affirmation i
of allegiance from the inhabitants ; and by ;
the fourth feftion it was provided, that noth
ing in this aft contained shall be deemed to ,
extend to, alter, or affeft, the forty-fecond
feftion of the frame of government of this
commonwealth, but that every fueh foreign
er as in the said feftion mentioned, who shall
come to fettle in this state, shall, after t one (
years residence therein, be entitled to the
full enjoyment of the right* and privileges
therein fpecified, upon taking and fubferik
ing an oath, or affirmation, such as in the
aft is set forth. The mayor, recorder,
each and every alderman and justice of the
peace, before whom fueh oath or affirmation
(hould be taken or fubferibed, was direfted
by the aft to keep a fair register of the
names and addition of the persons so sworn
or affirmed, and to transmit to the recorders
of deeds of. the counties refpeftively, lifts of
the names of the persons so sworn and
affirmed, which lifts were threupon to be re
corded."
It appears then, that from the seventeenth
of June one thousand seven hundred and
seventy-seven, to the twenty-sixth of March
one thousand seven hundred and ninety,
(when congress exercised the power of natu
ralization granted by the eighth feftion of
the firft article of the constitution of the
United States) the rights of cicizenfhip
were to be acquired, and the fact of natural
ization was to be recorded, in the mode thus
designated by the forty-fecond feftion of the
frame of government and the laws to which
I-iave referred ; but neither the frame of
government, nor any of those laws will be
found to contain a positive provision, as to
the mode of establishing the faft of naturali
zation, in cafe the register of the magistrates
and the records of the recorders should be
loft. By t^e till under cor.fideration, it is
indeed, contemplated, that every naturalized
freeman aftually resident within the limits of
the United States, on the third of Septem
be one thousand fevea hundred aud eighty
tiiree,jhould (land 6n the fame footing \Vitk ( rai
natives, in the exercise of the elective right ; ' ex
but between the third of September one fei
thousand fevjn hundred and eighty-three, va
and the twenty-sixth of March one thoufrfnd tic
seven hundred and ninety, many alicn6 were l>e
naturalized, according to the laws in force in
during that period. m '
Under thtfe circtfm (lances, a recurrence de
must be had to general principles ; and it is to
a general principle, that if a record is loft, be
the fafts, of which it was intended to be the tic
memorial, may be proved by oral as well as of
by written evidence. No citizen can an- ce
fwer for the care and fidelity of the magift- w
rate or recorder ; nor can, the magistrate or la
recorder guard against acts of Providence ar
and the various casualties by which all hu- tli
man precaution may be defeated, and every th
monument of human art is liable \o be d"- lii
flfoyed. If exemplifications of the register fr
or record are not produced, proef might rea- ' p<
fonably, perhaps, be demanded, that the ,le
register or record is itfelf loft or decayed ; tc
but still it is a great rule of law upon this pi
fubjeft, that the best evidence only shall be b;
required, which the nature of the cafe ad- re
mits ; or, in other words, that no evidence pi
(hall he received which supposes that higher ci
, evidence remains in the power of the party ; i vc
to extend the rule further would tead, in my c<
opinion, to create endless perplexity, and to ■ in
subvert jullice, when nothing could be at- j in
tained but the gratification of a speculative ol
i hope, to guard against a possibility cf deceit di
■ and imposition. m
i As, therefore, the only mode prescribed, ei
: during the period to which I immediately ift
i refer, for perpetuating the evidence of natu- jn<
■ ralization, was the register or record of the a<
• public officers ; as the individual who seeks h
f to exercise the rights of naturalization, tl
I could have no controul fiver those officers ; tl
: and as the officers themselves cannot be ref
-1 ponfible for accidents or outrages ; t have
: ventured to question, whether it is reasona
ble or confident w f ith the principles of juris- 1
r prudence, that at the distance possibly of .
t fourteen years, certainly at the distance of
f seven years, -written evidence, and 'written evi- e
b dince exclusively, (hould for the firft time be a
c demanded (and that too, at the iuftance of r
f any two eleftors) from the citizens who *
' have derived their title of citizenship, under j
1 the very different circumstances which have f
? been dated, ? This rigor would at once ex- s
e elude all evidence arising from the previous c
- uniform exercise of the right of voting : 1
- from the oath or affirmation of the paity J
- himfelf; and from the oral testimony of ,
any number of the most credible witnefles ; t
- it would disfraochife some citizens, without t
- the flighted imputation of blame ; and, in *
i effeft, it would reduce many who have for J
r years performed all the duties, and enjoyed ,
y all the advantages of citizenship, to the ab- ,
- solute condition of aliens. <
>• 11. Because the bill will, in its,operation, 1
r unnecessarily embarrass the exercise of the '
e rights of fuffrage ; and may deprive some of ,
- the most meritorious citizens of th« privileg- 1
s es of eleftion. 1
:- Thus, by the ninth feftion of the bill it •
g is declared, that the alphabetical lift to be '
■s furiiifhed by the cotmty commissioners to ,
the infpeftors of eleftion, shall contain " the i
i- names and surnames of all the male taxable 1
n persons, inhabiting within the refpeftive j
i- counties, who have been affefTed for a state
>f or county tax at least fix months before that
i- day, and not exonerated And by the elev
-e enth feftion of the bill it 1 is declared that
"o <« no person of more than twenty-two years
ie of age fliall be admitted to vote, whose name
-s is not inserted in the lift of taxable inhabit
d ants, furnifhed by the commissioners, unless
two reputable eleftors well known to be in
d fpeftors, shall depose that from his possessing
n taxable property, keepingta house, or other
a circumstances, they firmly believe the said
ig person hath paid a state or county tax affeff
w ed agreeably to the provisions in the confti
e- tution, and this aft, and that he resides and
hath resided at least feven|months in thetown
u- ship, ward or diftrift, in which he offers to
ft vote ; and the said person shall also depose to
n- the truth of tie fame, or produce a receipt
jn from the proper collcftor of the payment of
>y a state or county tax, assessed as aforefaid.
h- N«w, the effeft* of these regulations are
to objeftionable in a two-fold point of view:—
id i ft. Inafmuchas the accidental, or negli
iis gent omission, to insert »ny citisen'-s name
n- in the commissioners alphabetical lift (a cir
all cumftance that has too often occurred) will
ne condemn such citizen to the necessity of
he making proof of his right to vote, at the ve
;es ry moment when he tenders hts vote, by two
W- reputable tleSors ; though in every other cafe,
he except treason, one reputable witness is com
er, petent to afcertaiu a fadl, and tho' the fact
he may be known only to women, to persons
on who are not eleftors, or to citizens who are
:ed exonerated from the payment of taxes,
he These witnesses, moreover, must be well
irn known io the infpeftors, must know from
er» the state of the party's property, or other
of eiicumftances, his capacity to pay a tax
.nd (tho' in addition to this, his own oath, or
re- the produftion of a collector's receipt is im
posed) and must attest his previous residence
ith for fevea months within the diftrift, in which
md he offers to vote, though aftual residence at
rch the time of voting would alone be required,
ty, if his name had not been omitted in the com
tu- miffioners alphabetical lift,
iof 2d. Aud, m the second place, inasmuch
the as it excludes from enjoying the rights of
hip fuffrage, all persons, who shall be exonera
ral- ted, for any cause, from the payment of tax
hus es. It is true, that the eonftitntion of the
the j state contains a declaratory article, that,
lich ! " in eleftions by the citizens, every free
:of man of the age of twenty-one years, having
Ibe resided in the state two years next before the
to eleftion, and within that time said ajlate or
"ali- county tax, which Jhall have been ajfejfed, at
ates least fix months before the elediofi, Jhall enjoy
Ibe the rights of an electorßut this is mani
it is feftly an affirmative, and not a negative pro
ized vision ; —lt restrains the legislature from de
ts of nying to a person, so qualified, the right of
;em- voting ; but it does not preclude the legifla
thty tnre from exercising the power an an cxonc-
ration ; nor does it *(fent,or imply, that the j
1 exoneration from taxes, shall work a for- in
feiture of the rights of fuffrage, the mod E;
' valuable rights of citizenship. An exonera- |im
tion, by the party entitled to receive, must ;co
be in this cases (as in many cafe that occur wl
in private tranfaftions) tantamount to a pay- > fill
ment, by the party liable to pay. If, in- '
deed, a difftrent interpretation were given 1 th
to the constitution how could ele&ions have
been held, qr the advantages of reprefenta- 'an
tion have been enjoyed, by the inhabitants an
of those town{hips (forming in some inftan- va
ces a considerable portion of a county)— of
which have occasionally been exonerated; by yc
law, from any pecuniary contribution tow- ti<
ards sustaining the public burthens ? Since,
therefore, the constitution does not render N
the payment of taxes an indispensable pre- A
liminary to the exercise of the rights of fuf
frage, the principles of public gratitude and fe
political justice, seem to require, that, at fil
, lead, some discrimination (hould be made, as as
to the objefts, whose exoneration from a tl
pecuniary duty, (hall be thus accompanied | th
by the deprivation of a civil franchife. The J yi
remembrance of those scenes, in which the y<
patriotism of many of the original public tl
creditors, and the heroism of many of the k
; veterans in our revolutionary war, were the fc
causes of such penury, or infirmity,'as'muft
] incapacitate them, at this momfln, for yield- h;
! iifg a pecuniary aid to the state, can never be a
obliterated : nor will it, I am confident, be '
deemed politic, or just, upon refleAion, that tl
men, whose ferviceaand affliftions honorably F
entitle them totheexoneration contemplated, tl
i (hould, merely from that reason, be de- w
nounced, as unworthy of partaking irt the tl
administration of government, whichr they e<
have aflifted to establish, at the hazard of lj
their Uvea, or by the facrifice of their for- • nr
tunes. THOMAS MIFFLIN. o
Philadelphia, 28th Augull, 1797. F
o
A CAUTION b
To Seamsh and other Citizens of America. r<
, AT the till f,ft,in of congnfs, a proposition
Was brought (WwaM, whether a citizen of the
United States hiiirht expatriate himfelf, or, in oth- •
er words, forfeit his allegiance to hit own country, v
and becocia a citizen or fubjeit of another ? It was )'
F proposed to pafsa law for tkat purpose ; but, on'
, further confulerati«n, it was agreed that the quef
f tion {hould lie over tiil the snfuinj m-tting of the t ,
house of reprefenta! ives. The probability is,there- n
: fore, that it will ajain be introduced when con
gress meets. Every seaman and citizen of Ameri- 1
i ca, who poflcffcs genuine attachment to his coun- u
. try. fholild avoid entering into any foreign service, h
whatever Mattering encouragement might be held {
- out for him to abandon his own country ; for, if
' the law takes place, which is likely, it is c-xpeoted
; to be so modified, that if a citizen of out country 1
t take the benefit of it, and surrender his allegiance r
j to his own, and take it to a foreign nation, that he {
will never have it in hl» power to restore what he [
has voluntarily giten up, and consequently never
* afterwards enjoy the privileges and benefits of an »
- American citizen. Hence it ought to be a fettled
determination with him, to consider any one who t
is daring enoijgh to hold out temptation to him to 1
' accept i>f foreign employment, as his greatest ene- |
my. Many advantages may be painted to our ci- (
tizens in glowing colors, tofeduce their afFe&ions ;
- but it will he Tound, if experiment fliould unfortu- '
nately be made, that it is mer« delulion, and the
advantages held out will be as unsubstantial as the
visionary phantoms of a dream. No nation under (
C Heaven a(Fo»<K fwh advantages to the induArioas
3 citiaens as our own country. Let us therefore cen
e tinue attached to it, as a part of ourselves, and
e ntt give up the rights American citizenfliip, by
e taking allegiance |o any other country, which can
never again be recalled, tird to be deplorable exim
e pits of oar own folly.
t AM AMERICAN ciTiaix.
Baltimore, Sept .13.
.t ■" 1
•g FROM X LATI LONDON PAPER
e
t- Lord Malmfbury and Letourneur.
fs The following ludicrous account of the
1- interview between Lord Malmfbury and
g Letourneur, is extra&ed from L'lmpartial
■r Europ'ecn, of the 9th inft. It serves to (hew
d the high opinion entertained of the talents
f. of th* English Negociator, as opposed to
i. those of the President of the Negociation ou
d tbt part of France.
1- " The French Plenipotentiaries were no
o sooner informed of the arrival of Lord
o Malmfbury at Lijle, than Letourneur sent
jt to ask permiflion to wait pn him. He had
3 f repeated his little lesson in the morning with
some fuccefn, and flattered with the indul
re genet of his jnafler, he longed to enter the
_ lifts with the English Ambassador.—The in
i- terview took place on the 6th inft. Lord
ie Malmfbury was in his Study, when his Ex-,
r- cellcncy Letourneur was announced. The
ill Lords who were with him as Secretaries,
of immediately arose ; the folding doors were
e- thrown open by the servants, and Lord
uo Malmfbury, advancing towards the French
e, Minister, took him affectionately by the
a- hand, led him to a feat, and said, that he
Ct was ashamed to have been anticipated in
ns paying his refpe&s where they were due,
re Lctourn, —My Lord—Your Excellency !
;s. You are very kind.
ell Lord M. (to the Lords of the Embajfy.)
nn Gentlemen, partake with me in the inter
er , view which I have now the honour to en
ax joy. You are the Envoys of Philip, and
or here {pointing to Letourneur) is the Demoft
m- henes of France,
ee Lctourn. You are very kind,
ch Lord M.—You know the pacific intenti
at ons of the King my mailer. As th£ Agent
.(J, of his will, and in veiled with unlimited pow
m- ers, I hope to find your Excellency dispos
ed to return the amicable sentiments 1 which
eh lam commifiioned to express. The repu
of tation for probity and candour which you
ra- justly enjoy, convinces me that this will be
the cafe.
; he Letourn.—You are very kind,
at, Lord M.~Reftitution, Compensation,
ee- and Indemnity; such are bases on which the
!ng ftrufture of Peace and of happiness for the
the two Nations, which we represent, is to be
or raised.
at Lctourn That is a great deal.
rjoy Lord M— In the War which has deftroy
ini- ed the connexion of the two Countries, for
ro- tune has distributed its favours so unequally,
de- that the advantages, you must, from a con
: of fideratiou/ of fadls, admit, remain, entirely
fla- on our fide,
me- Z.£/4>wr«.-—T rue.
Lord M.—ln possession of your Colonies 3
in the Antilles, of your Faftories in the
East-Indies, Masters of the Sea, and of an
immense Navy, with which no power can
cope, and that too derived from almost the
whole of your Navy, our interest has been
silent at the voice of humanity.
Lctourn. (rubbing his hands) — And from
the fear of an invasion, Ay ? .
Lord M.—Ridiculous apprehensions in
any one who knows the state of your Ports
and Dockyards. The regiftef of your na
val force makes it amount to twenty Ships
of the Line and some Frigates, confined to
your pQrts, and incapable of making a junc
tion .
| Letourn.—To which are to be added the
Navies of Holland, Spain, and Venice.
Are they nothing too ?
Lord M.—lt is not the number of Ves
sels that confers superiority. A Navy con
sists of two parts, the more substantial part, n
as the Ships, and the essential part, that is t(
the Crews and Commanders. Admitting
; that with the addition of the Venetian force '
■ you had established the substantial part of ~
your Navy, you would yet be deficient in
the essential part, and your Fleet would be '
kept in port by the third part of the naval
fore? of England.
Letourn.—While we have wood we can a
have (hips ; and the reft may be supplied by 1
a requisition. "
Lord M.—Your Excelle»cy recollefts,
that at the Treaty of Peace of 1763, the 1
French navy was in a deplorable state ; that c
that Treaty stipulated the number of (hips a
which France should build annually ; that
the observance of it was particularly watch-
ed by our commissaries, and that France on
ly got over it in the American war. How c
• many years are neceffarv to the restoration 1
of a navy ? Supposing all the Dockyards in 1
Europe employed in the service, they could
only have produced her forty (hips per year, 1
because the collection of materials must be 1
regulated by the produce of nature.
Lctourn.—Hold'.
Lord M.—But while your commerce is l
interrupted by our cruizers, where'would 2
you procure wood, hemp, fail cloth, &c. c .
Letourn.—Hold. 1
Lord M. —But supposing France
to furni(h every material, you could
never build more than 12 (hips a '
year ; and as to sailors, since the entire ru- (
in of your commerce, of your fi(heries, you J
have neither naval schools nor pupils, and '
soldiers compose but a very bad crew.
Letourn.—My Lord, you must agree,
that beforethe Quiberon expedition it would |
not have been impofiible for us to have pro
duced excellent officers ; and you cannot
Contend that the best of your naval officers
peri(hed in that expedition.
Lord M.—The event was a little adverse
to us ; but if we are reproached with not
having been very careful of spilling French
blood on that occasion, we (hall reply by
citing the law which commends the massa
cre of prisoners.
Letourn.—ln fa^.
Lord M, —Let us have done with this ex
ceflive policy, and proceed ilraight to the
objeft of our deliberations.
Letourn.—That is well said.
LordM.—On vvhatconditiondoes France
seek peace ?
Lctourn.—l will tell you in a moment,
my Lord. ( Draws, a paper out of his pocket.)
These are my direftions. She alks,
1. The restitution of her colonies.
2. The restitution of her (hips, or the va
lue of them in money.
3. The restitution of the Dutch navy.
: 4. The restitution of the conquests taken
I from Holland.
/ 5. An indemnity of so many millions for
t the benefit of the F '.nch, for reasons here
-5 after to be afligned.
) Lord M.—What would be the answer
1 of yuor excellency, if England (hould adopt
the principles on which the French Repub
j lie has treated with the House of Austria ?
1 Letourn.—l do not understand you.
t Lord M.—France requires reflitutions ;
i but has it restored Holland to the House of
1 Orange, the Low Countries to the House
- of Austria, or Savoy to the King of Sardi
: nia ? On what title would it found the pri
vilege of keeping what it has gotten ? On
d its viftories ? That would be contradictory
to itfelf. On its power ; its armies have
e not yet invaded our coasts. On the promise
i, made to its allies ? Ought England to fub
e mit to stipulations to which it has, not con
d fented. \.
h Letourn.—l think—l am of opinion—it
e may be—it is—l do not know—however
,e —for confider—(Talcs out his watch)
n Two o'clock !—Pardon me, my Lord, I
must leave you. My wife and my colleagues
! are waiting for me. I will state your Lord
ship's observations to them, and I have no
J doubt—But I must firft consult the Tele
: f° r I 030 d° nothing without the
1- Telegraph.—(TheirLord/hips rife.) —I beg
id you will not trouble yourselves—No cere-
U mony—you oppress me—How do you do ?
(in Englifh)—Goodnight (instead of good
day) : return, I beg of you.
i- As Letourneur went out, much laugh
it ter was heard, but from #hat quarter our
v- correspondent does not inform us. M. Le
f- tourneur returned to his colleagues, and
:h told them that he was enchanted with Lbrd
ix- Malmesbury ; that things had taken the
>u best turn imaginable, and that peace de
ae pended only on a thread.
Thomas Armat and Son,
OF PHILADELPHIA,
TNFORM thrir cuflomcrs and the publie, they
tie A have removed a part of their merchandize to
be Wilmington : Also, they h. ve their store open in
be the city. At either place their friends can be lup
plied, and their orders carefully attended to.
By the Cumterland, from Hull, they have re
ceived a handfeme afT«rtment of aiticles, suitable
y* to the approaching fcafon ; and cxpeit to aid to it
>r- by other fall'fbips.
y, Should the Ccknefs prevail in the central part of
)n ' the city, that branch of their bufindi will be re
, uioved to Germaatown.
■ 7 gj The communication by post ii open and re
gular as usual.
Sept. 18. thtf
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, September2o.
By the Fartny, Braine, from dlafgow, itl
continuation— [From the Sun of Aug. B.]
The latejl
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
• FRANCE.
PARIS, August 3. y
Extraft of the report of Do-mas to the
council of five hundred, in the name of
the committee charged to examine into
the resolution refpefting the Constituti
onal limits, and the one relative to the
movements of troops.
This eloquent report, which is in every
refpeft worthy of its author, ought to prove
to the little Club Machiavels, that those
dreadful divisions, which they flatterred
themselves with having created between the
Councils, exist only in their imagination.
General Dumas has {hewn himfelf at the
Tribune of the Council of Ancients, what
Pichegru has proved himfelf in that of the
Council of Five Hundred—a friend to peace,
and ready to make eyery facrifice, except
tfcat of honour, to public liberty. He had
no difficulty in proving, that these two re
solutions were in every refpeft conformable
to the text of the Constitution, and were
called for by the critical situation of public
affairs.
We are bound to state, that within some
weeks the consoling appearance of public af
fairs has totally changed—Diftruft'has suc
ceeded to hope, agitation to calm, Revolu
tionary appearances to the tranquility which
prevailed before.
The Executive Direftory, deceived by
chimerical alarms, appear apprehensive of
the future, and fearful of relying on the sup
port of the power which has been entrusted
to them, or the exercise of its lawful means;
they endeavour to appear apprehensive of
an attack on the Constitution ; but instead
of retreating into a fortrefs, and defending
it, they have recourse to arms, which the
Constitution (hould break.
There are, doubtless, men in France who
regret the old government, and there are
others, no doubt, who have a partiab'ty to
the Revolutionary Government, so favoura
ble to their malignant passions, and their in
fatlable avarice ; but these feftaries of defpo
tiftn and anarchy form but a small party in
the Republic ; and even supposing the num
ber of them greater than it is, the Royalifls
have (hewn the feeblenefs of their policy, the
Anarchists the cruelty of their disposition,
too much to fuffer us to fear that they will
ever again be able to muster with success
against the Defenders of the Constitution.
If the Direftory would fee the objefts as
they really are, and not attempt to represent
the political horizon as charged with clouds
which have blown over us, they would-be
convinced that the great majority of the
country is devoted to them. Who then are
the persons who favour one or other of these
opinions ? Are they those who firft at
tack the power of Ministers when armed
with Letters de Cachet and arbitrary power
to aft as they pleased ? Are these the per
sons, who in different public AfTemblies
have proclaimed and developed the pritjci«
pies of Liberty and of Representative Go
vernment ; It is this incalculable number
of Administrators, of Judges, and of Public
Functionaries who have entailed upon them
selves the haired of those who only wish for
laws that they may profit by them ; or of
those who hope for advantage by the noft
ejpftence of the laws ?
Can it be from our viftorious Soldiery
who have seen the Constitution rifi cemented
by thelilood of their Brethren—who have
perished in dangers in which they have par
taken ?—lt is from them that we arc to ex
> pest measures that are incompatible with
_the fafety of the Constitution ?
Let the direftory frankly unite with the
• legislative body—Let it derive hs power
from its true source—Let them be convinced
that there is a cessation of government when
there is a cefTation of harmony between the
supreme powers. That authority, however
extensive, is not fufficient for governing, if it
is not supported by confidence, and that eon.
fidende is the prize given by public opinion
—that ministers without efteerh, are minis
ters without influence', and that they will
meet with obstacles where others woulj havfc
found afliftance
That peace, which is the common objeft
of all our wishes, can only be obtained
(whatever talents the negociator may pos
ses) by the ftrift coalition of all the firfl au
thorities, —
, That generals crowned with laurels, tint
soldiers and citizens having the most glori
ous profpeft before them, the life of Pom
r pey, and the old age of Timoleon, will ne
-1 ver consent to facrifice their brilliant defti
> nies in filch a Catilinarian attack.
1
OTI'ICE OF XHS MARINE, AUG. 4.
The privateer Le Petit Diable, captain
Salvetat, has taken, after a fight of three
- quarters of an hour, and carried into Dels-
I zil, an English packet, boat named the Dol
-1 phin, bound from Yarmouth to Cruxhaven;
* it had on board a courier, eharged with dif
- patches, and 18 pafTengers.
The privateer Intrepid, of Nantes, has
" taken a ship under American colours, from
Liverpool to Philadelphia, with a cargo of
fait, coals, tin, and copper sheathing, for
f, three frigates.
n The privateer Le Deeade, of Bourdeaux,
i- captain Lufone, has taken and carried into
Corrunna, the Portugueze ship the duke ps
" Braganca, of 600 tons, laden with cotton *
; t rice, coffee, cocoa, &c. &c. from Marag
nan to Lisbon.
>f The privateer Le Chafleur Basque, capt.
Dariban, has carried into Bayoune a. fee
English brig, called the Jean, from Quebec,
laden with planks, 'skins, pot-a(hes, &c, &c.
The privateer Le Coureur, of Rochcl'.e,* \
Itif cap'tursil anil sent into tlirft port & Pm<- 1
tugueze (hip, called the Bente, of 400 tons,
from St. Salvador to Oporto, laden with i
fug?r, coffee, See. t
The privateers tlie Confiance and Cheri, <
of Nantes, have taken and sent into Minden, 1
the Bctfey, qf-Yarmouth, of 130 tons. <
The Sauvage, of Boulogne, has carried , <
into that port an English lugger, laden with 1
geneva. 1
The Aventure, of Bourdeaux, has taken 1
and sent into that port, La Sainte Theresa, 1
a Portugneze vessel, of 250 tons, laden with '
cotton, tobacco, &c. and valued at 400,000 '
livres.
The Intrepid, of Dlinkirk, has taken an '
English brig, laden with 42 heavy pieces of j
cannon. 1
The Cheri arid Confian9c, of Nantes, have ;
taken an English vessel named the Lively,
from Antigua, with runt and sugar.
The Dragon, has sent to Paimpol a vessel, '
said to be an American, laden with sugar, 1
coffee and cotton, and an Englifli sloop.
August 4.
from the Executive Directory to j
the Council of Five Hundred, of the 14th
Thermidor (Aug. 1.)
" Citizen Representatives,
" The executive Direftory hasjuft given !
the second decision on the urgent payment
to he made in the second decade of Thermi
dor ; the demands, originating from the 1
moll prefling wants, amounted to about
twenty millions. In order to maintain the I
public fervicc, it was neceiTary to consider
the presumptive .receipt of the departments
during the last decade, and that of the na
tional treasury during the pre ent, as funds
actually to be disposed of. The sum total
of these fundi it has not been possible to
rate higher than at 6,620,000 livres, which
have been distributed in such manner as ap- '
peared tnoft conformable to fubijfting laws,
•nd the fupoort of the public under
the difficult circumstances wherein we are
placed. . There remains a deficit of about
14 millions for the next decade, to which is
to be added the expence of tlie ten follow
ing days. Whatever calculations may be
made, citijens representatives, it must be i
evident to you that'our present means are !
not tifficient. From the ftatsments tranf- '
mittiM to you a few days since by the na
tional treasury, it is clear that we cannot ex- 1
pedt to receive 23 millions of specie during
the month of Thermidor. With means so
feeble, it will be impofiible to maintain the
fervice ; and the difficulties it la- ,
hours under, renders its situation worse eve
ry day. The (late of things deserves your
attention the more, as it might be altered
by making use of the resources which the re
public has yet left. The persuasion, citizen
representatives, that these resources still ex
ist, has hitherto supported our courage and
animated our hope ; but it is time to im
prove them. The minister of finances has
pointed out some of them in the report an
nexed to this mefTage. The dire&ory has
met with frequent opportunities to invite
you to examine into these resources, and the
danger of the present moment obliges them
to repeat the request. From a con vision
that the adoption of proper measures for re- f
storing public credit would produce the most
fortunate change, the direftory sincerely wi(h
that you may tak« them into fpcedy con
federation.
(Signed)
CARNOT, president. )
LEGAR.DE, fee. gen.
A magistrate in the department of the
marine, writes from Chalons under the date '
of the 31ft of July. "The following is
the order of the day, which, however, may
be changed perhaps to-night, for the utmoll ;
variation and uncertainty prevails in the I
movements of the troops. The cantonment 1
of 10, coo men is not to take place ; the |
troops have received orders to retrogade ;
the four regiments of Chafleurs had like
wise been ordered to retrogade ; but last
night they received new orders to remain,
one at the Rheims, the second at Epernay,
the third at Chalons, and the fourth at Vi
try."
Why these three thousand horse receiv
ed orders to remain in cantonments in the
departments of the Marne, while the other
troops
We read in the Sentinelle of to-day, an
article of intelligence which seems only to
have been set on foot with an intention of
calumniating the legislative body. "It
appears very certain, fays the journalist,
that hostilities with Austria-are recommenc
ing ; thanks to the motions of Jourdan,
Dumolard and co."
General Menou succeeds General Hedou
vi'le in the command of one of our military
divisions.
Citizen Dtfermont is arrived, and this.day
the treasury
Hague, July 26. Citizen Noijl, minister
of the French republic, has demanded that
all French emigrants should be enjoined to
quit the Batavian territory, according to the
terms of the treaty of alliance. It was im
mediately decided, that the proclamation
formerly iflued against them, should be exe
cuted with the greatest rigour, and that for
this piirpofe letters should be dispatched to
the provinces.
August 5.
The arrival of Angereau, whose aid
<\e-camp has been at Paris since yesterday, is'
this moment announced. For what purpose
he has been ordered here, will foon'appear.
The Directory are said to have held a ve
ry stormy fitting last night.
The report of the suspension of the nego
tiations at Lisle, gains ground. The ncgo
ciators, they fay, tiave shewn mlich confi
dence, t'fteem, and reciprocal cordiality in
their conferences, but bound by their in
ftruitions, they are very far at present frojn
drawing'towards the conclusion of the trea
ty ; it is even looked upon as impoflible, if
the directory do not abate the pretensions
•which it has advanced. What are we to
' expeft, if it be true, ns we have reason to be
lieve, that a member of government has
been heard to fay, " It is only the royalist
fa&iuu which is desirous of a peace with
England."
According to private letters from Italy,
the negociation there meets with many diffi
culties, and that which appears moil insupe
rable, is the clause ftip,ulating the integrity
of the Germanic body. The manner in
which the emperor has taken poiVeffion of
the Germanic body, haa offended our gov
ernment, and the conferences have" been on
the point of off, and hostilities
re-commencing. Fortunattly this resolution
was not carried into effeft, and the negocia
tion still continues.' The which has
been fufpe&ed to be entertained ofdifTolving
the national representation by force, while it
gave our enemies hopes of witnefiing an
internal commotion, re-animated their hopes
and increased their pretensions.
It was yesterday reported, that Hoche had
written 011 the 29th ult. to the minister of
war, a letter, in which he gives in his resig
nation as general of the army of the Sambre
and Menfe.
On the following day, the fame general
persisted in his and demanded a
pafTport to go to Switzerland.
What may lead us tofufpeft the truth of
this resignation, is, that the reasons assigned i
for it do not appear fufficient. It is said, !
for instance, that after having given orders '
to the army to march again ft.Pariij, and after
having prepared them for this expedition, j
the countermand of the order produced so j
bad an effeft, that the general, diO-ontented,
would hot commit himlelf to the chance of
newinftances of irresolution, and consequent
ly frefh murmurs.
The division of general Joobert have pre
sented a violent ac!dref» to the direftory.
The extract from the report of Pichegru,
in which he addresses hirafelf to the armies
of the republic, ha 9 been ported up with the
greatest fupcefs in the department of Marne,
and thefoldiers have appeared to hear with ,
fatisfa&ion the voice of him who has so of
ten led them to vi&ory, and who has jilways
shewn himfelf sparing of the blood of French
men. In (hort, those who have sent for
the troops, if they are well acquainted with
the circurtrftances which have attended the
march of the different corps, may now learn
that their attempt would have failed in more
than one particular.
On the 18th July last, the emperor caused
it to be notified te the diet at Ratifbon, that j
he was about to conclude a definitive and j
separate peace with the French republic, 1
which gave much uneafi/iefs to the diet at
large. This news*is confirmed in a private
letter from Ratifbon.
IMPORTANT.
COUNCIL OF FICF HIS\'DitED.
Sitting of July 23. 1
Dumolard called the attention of the
council to a motion of order. " The ho
nor and duty of the legislative body, as
well as the interest of our armies, do not
permit us to remain iilent any longer on
events which amaze all Europe, and are no
where unknown but in -this hall ; I mean
the late tranfadlions in Italy.
" The manifefto ifluad by general Buo
naparte agaipft Lhe state of Venice, has been
read all over Europe. It W4s transmitted
to .you officially by the diredWy on the
27th of last Floreal, and you felt and ex
pre fed a just indignation against the horrid
! outrages committad.
j " Several writers have raised doubts
; against the truth of the fafts fltited in the
manifefto ; but the legislative body thought
' it might Cafely rely on a manifefto fanftL
; oned by the executive power. The mo
! ment was not then arrived to discuss the
; question, whetner war was to be declared
| against Venice. You could not enter upon
1 this discussion, without the direftory hav
j ing given the firft impu'fe, and the direc.
Tory could not commence hostilities, with- .
out acquainting you of it without the least
delay.
" Fame has proclaimed all over the world,
the revolution of Venice; ourtroops have en
tered that city ; the Venetian navy is in our
poffeflion ; that ancient government of Eu
rope is no more, and re-appears under a
democratic form. It is for you to examine
whether the direftory has not violated the
constitution ; whether, in disguised terms,
it has not of its own accord waged war,
made peace, and perhaps concluded trea
ties, the contests of which you are still to
learn.
" The firft experiment was made on Ve
nice, and an attempt no less fuccefsful is
just cbmpleated at Genoa.
" On perceiving such infringements of j
the constitution, it is- natural to conceive
apprehensions of what may hereafter be at
tempted. A contested navigation threat
ens us with a rupture with the Swiss Can
tons ; I am howevej persuaded, that the
wisdom of our gallant commander in Italy,
will ftifle this new germ of division.
" The disastrous time is no more, when
Clootz and his set of Illumines wished to
plant the tree of republican liberty in every
corner of the globe. We Wish to enjoy
our liberty without disturbing other govern
ments.
" I move, ift, That my observations be
referred to the comniiflion appointed on the
20th i-.ift. to examine into the resolutions
adopted by the direftory, with respect to
' the United States of America.
" 2dly. That a message be sent to the
direftory, to obtain the necefTary explana
tion of the events which have taken place
at Venice since the manifefto of
Buonaparte.
" 3dly. That it acquaints us with the
motives, which have prevented its inform
ing the legislative body of these events.
4thly. That it acquaints us of the revo
lutionary proceedings at Genoa, and of the
voluntary and compulsory part which the
' French agents have taken ii. their proceed
ings, and
" sthlyi That it gives us the necefTary
information on our political situation with
! refpeft to the Swiss Cantons."
Bailleul " Dumolayd's speech is a tif-
sue of abfuriities. On the 27th Koreal,
the directory informed the council, that
general Buonaparte had taken the necessary
meafsres to rupel the hoflilities committed
by the Venetians. . It has consequently
performed its constitutional duty.
" The impending hoftihties, it is true,
have lince degenerated into a very serious
war j but this i 3 the general fate of arms.
The Venetian government is no more ; but
the legislative body has been informed of
the motives of the hostilities, in consequence
of which it has been overthrown." The 1
fpeakef concluded with moving the order 1
of the day. (
Guillemardet spoke to the fame effeft as
Bailleul, but the original rtiotion having
been fecondtd by Thibeaudau, was carried, 1
and adopted by the council. ,
SALE Mi September 15.-
, Capt. Woodberry has favoured' 113 with the '
following letter, which excited rfiuih apprehen. I
fion among the- Americans at flilhoa,. It was
written by Mr. O'Brien, V. CoufuS for the U.
S. at St. Andero, (whither Capt. W. and others ;
went to procure rolls of equipage, and to get ]
the fignajure of,the French Consul,) to Mr. M'
Mahun, at Bilboa. i
St. Andero, Aug. I, 1*97.
"On the 18th nit. I received v'.ur eftcemed
favour of the ila ditto, per Captains Lalkey, J
Hawkes, Bartlc't, Woodbtry, Smith and '
Henderfon, to Whom 1 have rendered every fer- 1
vice which their fiiorb Itay, and circumflances j
here, would admit. 1 have solicited from Mr. ,
La Carriere, the French Consul here to attest
my signature to their refpefUve rolls, and tho' 1
at firft he pro mi fed to do it, he afterwards per
emptorily refufed to fuhfcriiie his name, under
pretence of incurring the difjileafiire of, or in
verting the orders iifiiedby, his government;
from jthich refufal, the most serious consequence
Buy he inferred; in a word, that the navigation
of the citizens of tie United States, is to he con
troled ?t the direi?lton of every French corsair
Though thii hoftite proceeding is not publickly
avowed by the Legifl.itiOn of that, country, ret
apparently stimulated under various pretences."
BOSTON, Sept. 16,
Proof* multiply daily, t 1 ar |hc yellow fever
it a l ' i.mporte.i difcufej notwitßwnding the o
pinion to the contrary of manyifKily cejebrated
phyfieiani. ( his fa<s> hii Heed ascertained at
Prwvidfnce. Briftolond Warren,
where ibout rfteen ptrfons have raken it from
imported eontagion; snd the cause being remo
ved, it ! as cf-afed immediately
Yesterday the cable stf the Conflitutifin frigate
was conveyed on the fboulders 6f two hundred
and ninety-three men, from the walk to Navy
yard. It was preceeded by Col. Olafrhorn, and
attended by a party of drums and fifes, and j
American etiligns.
-v. BALTIMORE, Sept. 18.
To obviate as far as we are able, malicious
and injurious reports, we puhlifh the follow
ing lift of interments in all the burying
grounds weft Fell's Point, which has
been collefted with the utmost care and ac
curacy. As soon as an accurate lift of those
at Fell's Point can be made out, it shall also
be laid before the pnblic.
September Children.
nth, 2 1
12th, o 1
13 th, 5 1
H th « 3 . ' o
15 th, 2 a
i6th, 2 o w
17th, 1 1
i) 7
We forbear making any remarks on the
healthy situation the above lift incontrover-
I tibly proves we are in ; and have only to
request that all the printers with whom we
correspond may* give it a in their pa
pers. ( Fed. Gaz.)
The Roman Catholic congregation of
this city, we hear, have it in contemplation
to ereft a monument, with a iuitahle inferip
tioto, to perpetuate the memory of their late
dearly beloved priest, the rev. father John
Floyd; a votive'teftimony of their grati
tude, and expreflive of the very high refpeA
and esteem they had for that truly excellent
divine, whose death is so much lamented by
all who had the pleasure of knowing him.
A fellow who calls himfelf Buffy James,
was this day committed to prison for ftealir.g
a watch at the Point. He is also fufpefted of
being one of the gttng of high waymeft who
have for some time (nfefted the neighbor
hood*oPlhis city. 1 I
On Saturday evening, about five o'clock,
a carriage with two ladies, was flopped be
tween this city and Hook's town, by a man
'who demanded a feat in the carriage, which
being refufed, he infixed on it, and at
tempted to flop the llorfes, ;n which at
tempt the pole of,the carriage flruck against
i breaft, and drove off. The man then
made Kl3 way into the woods. ,
Yesterday three men, who call themselves
James Wilton, John Walfh; and Laurence
Brady, were brought before G. G. Prefbury,
esq. by a Mr. Isaac Henry, v»ho lives near
this city on the road, and com-J
mitted for further examination, an suspicion
of being of the party who have for some ■
time past infefted the neighbourhood in
every direction, by attempting tofrob tra-,
vellers. They were observed to lurk in the '
woods near Mr. Henry's house,, which gave,
j him cause of alarm, and he immediately had i
them apprehended, and found on them two
bundles, ont of bread, &c. the other fundty
articles of wearing apparel. ' They differ in
their accounts as to what bad beiti their in
-1 tentions.
Yesterday three,men, to wit, John Kf.liy, A'.'atn
Kerr, and ChurcK, were .committed to pri
i son. for robbir.g the houfi: ot Mr. Nathan Griffith,
of sundry wearing upyarel, &c. Two off
the three above Kerr ard Churth, came
; to Mr. Griffith's en B»tt'r3»y,W*&flpkt a late hour,
' and a iked for (upper and lodging, which was
granted; after supper tl-ey were (hewn to their
, i«om wh«te they regained 1 wirhout Jyin , down
'till the family went to hed they then proceeded
to plundar, 11; which,however, they wade so n,uch
noise, as toa'arta the family, and one of their, was
at that time apprehended; 'he ether made his cf
cape, hot was focn after taken, and the greater
part of the things returned. Mr. tv'as.the;
i'eccnd house they had hu ri in Urthe l' o5; pUrpose
in the cmrfe of that day.
%ljt oasCtte»
• -*
PHILADELPHIA,
THURSDAY EVENING, September 21.
Extract of a letter from a gentleman at
Big Tree, on Qenefee River, dated
August 28, 1797.
" The Indians were yesterday in Coun
cil, when a trfej/age, arrived from the In
dians, who were lately hofiiie to our Gov
ernment, informing/ that the Spaniards
were fending amongst all the Indians, re
questing they would unite with them,
which the meflage defircd the Six Nations
would not do. The meflage was imme
diately taken into consideration, and the
Council determined, they would not have
any thing to do with the business. Simi
lar meflages are gone to the Indians a
bout Canada, and I hope, may meet the
lame fate."
[Rumors to the above have been for
some lime in circulation, though hut partially cre
dited. IVi pulbjh the foregoing in a diflingujjl ■
ing character, becduji it is a fuljt'd of the
jirjl importance, and becavfe this information is
certain and authentic, and may be JlriEtly de
pended on.~]
CITY HOSPITAL REPORT,
From the 20th to 21ft Sept. in the morning.
Admitted, since last report,
Elizabeth Smith—Jacob Miller's, Race
ftreet, between 7th and Bth streets
Patrick Fleming—Hill's new market
Rofina Appledore—Buftis's, comer of £ih
and Spruce-streets
George tSpeice—Gregory Strahan's, Bth,
between Pine and Lombard-ftrefets
Robert Shaw'—Mr. Boone's, Coombe's al.
Charles Mitchell—Verntpn-ftreet.
DJfeharged, finc£ last report,
Margaret M'El wee—admitted 13th inft.
Remaining last Report . 46
Admit/ed since, 6
52
Discharged I
Died NONE 1
Remain inHofpital, | j J 1
Five of whom are dangerous.
Interred in City Hospital burying ground
since last report :
From the city and suburbs 2
From the city hospital None.
Total 2
Stephen Girard,
(Signed) Caleb Lownes,
John Connelly.
Published by order of the Board,
Wm. MONTGOMERY,
Chairman pro tern.
Totals of burials for 24 hours, tndtng yejler
day at noon.
Grown Perfont. Children,
First Prefbytcrian I I
St. Mary's x o
Friends I , o
German Lutheran 1 I
German Reformed o I,
City Hospital* I» o
Kensington I o
Total 17- 3
* Six of theft from tie city.
DIED, yejlerday morning, of the prevail
ing disease, Mr. Stocxdjlk, of the house of
Stocldale and Rose.
f
THE CHARITY SERMON,
Intended to be preached,at Germantown
on Sunday next, IS POSTPONED.
A New-York paper, of yesterday, fays,
" Wednesday evening is appointed for a
meeting of the Presbyterian congregations
in this city, to offer their prayeA to Heaven,
for the afflifted city of Philadelphia ; and to
return thanks to him who has hitherto pre
served us."
In confequeuce of the guardians of the
poor having generally left the city, the sub
scribers have voluntarily undertaken the fu
perintendendce of the poor at the tents, near
Schuylkill, and hare appointed David Tho
mas steWard, who conftarttly resides there.
Thoft persons who may be anxious to re
move from the neighbourhood of the sick,
to rcfide in the tents, must apply to one of
the fubferiber* for an order, before they can
be admitted.
Those benevolent citizens who havts any
straw,' old blankets, or childrens' cloathiiig
to spare, will render an essential service by
! forwarding them to the steward, to be dis
tributed among the poor.
' James Oldden, No. 1, South Sixth-street,
John Gardiner, jun. 28, Strawberry-alley.
, Franklin Wharton, S. Second-street.
John Clifton, jun. 74, Swanfon-ft. Soutb'k.
Thomas Anderfon, 63, Shippen-ftreet, do.
Published for the information of our fel
low-citizens.
By order of the committee,
JAKE'S OLDDEN.
The news (vide marine hjl) of the French
privateer having captured an inward bound
1 brig off our caries, a few days ago, is eon
firmed. The mate of the vessel arrived in
f, town this morning. Sh6 is the Betsey, capt.
: Hart, from Jamaica.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
r ___
Port of
1 Arrived at the Fort. Days.
s Flilp Columbus, Vanntck, Havannah 30
Erig Two lifters, Faul, Curfacoa
f 1 Ltrcfina, Loulane, St ihomas
% £cl*r. hvdufrry, M'Cam, Kir-gfion
c ( apt. Guftjvus Conyngh-w, in th<
j Columbus, lias'ft.voiu* with thr iclloxving lift
of AmericAO veflfela, captured I>y French priva
teers, a.nd brought into the Havannah I
Brig Union, Lake, of Norfolk
Norfolk, Dil:in, of io.
Betsey, Sayer, of New York
Schr. Lively, Spooner, of Botlou
Brig Abbo,' Myfick, of Baltimore—the crew
retook the v. (Tel Prom the Triumphant J hut a
few dzys after, had the misfortune to fall in with
another privateer, which brought thera into tha
Havannah
The brig Alexander, of Philadelphia, captain
Whelen, was risen upoM by part of the crew ; af
terwardt, falling in with the brig pox, thi pirate!
'ook her:for an aimed vessel, and went on fiiora
on Cu'.:a,.a]>ci:t 6 leagues from the Mt ro.
The brig Uecovety, of Bollon, capt. Vcrnm,
on the loth August, was risen upon by the crew j
and wa» cruiung off Cape Anthony—had taken a
fijiooner under Daniih co'ours, ani brought her to
anchor under the Cape. The bi ig Recovery had
btenarmed in Jamaica, for her own proteflion.
Every day there were American veflels brought
into theHavannah by French privateers; and ara
proceeded with in a very summary way, as they
never .wait (or a condemnation earning from 1 :apa
Francois, to have even the form oi a legal pro
ceeding, hut begin, IL , 1 ";" 1 - 1 auu 1 ' ;r ?° without
delay or ccrftmoa! ' 3 ' t- ive !^:c worst poflibla
treatment to the There were fifty A
merican prizes at t^^annah.
There are fix crrfff". at the HaVanmh, gar
rying from ,ro to i j & lins 311 d full
of men, defined t« c.. :1 c coast
for the fall European Voices*
The French in. the t ' lc T ?!?afa
in any refpeA, while the Americano av 'tjg't*
obey the molt t jfling officer, under pain of :
fonment and si j.
Capt. Paul, of ills bt - two Sifters, from Cur
racoa, was brought o off Phoenix 13and, by t'aa
French lchooner privateer lately at New-Castle ;
and hit letters brokira open Whin the taptam cf
the «aptain of the privateer found he could net
make a- prize oi the vessel (though some doubt*
were entertajned, from not having the governor's
fignaturii to the cieatgnee) he f,nt on board the
brig and took capt Paul's yaul by force from him.
The rilot of the fr.ip Columbus, saw the fsme
fch -oner take a brig off Rhodes's (about fix miles
from the Cape.)
The French agent atthe Havannafc is the part
ner of Santbunax in most of the privateers from
that place.
Capt. Psul informs, that an infurredlion of a ve
ry ferioa. nature bad been plotted at Lagu : ra,
which was upon the peint of a f.KC; :?ful C'.jnpk
tiqn, wlien the government, ailing with ail,the en
ergy ani impetuofiiy of the French c' aradter,
marched cut a superior force, and, after a very ob
stinate and hloody engagement, made manytrif
•nen. A large party Were, however, {till einbo
• die.l in the country, who had dema tied the release
of their companions before th J would lay dowa
their arm".
Capt. Paul further informs that no American
vessel i« permitted to remain at l.sguira more than
five days, and bo pcfou from them allowed to go
on Ihore.
Arrived at Knv^Cafile.
Brig Morning-Star, capt. M'Caiky, from Lon
donderry, io weekspaffage—l9o paffet gers.
Brig'Levina, capt. Samuel Swett, from Ham
burgh, 82 days passage— 140 paflengers.
New Tori, September 29.
/IRKIVF.D, DAYS*
Brig Dtan, Shedden, North Carolina 8
Sloop Louisa, Glinning, Currcon 24.
Grave/end, (E.) August 6.
Tht Fly, Price from Phialdelplna—Ceres,
IVatfon, from Virginia— Hazard, Drummond,
from Georgetown—and ,prize from Savan
nah, jujl passed.
Providence, September 16.
On Wednesday arrived the {hip Charlotte,
capt. Manchester, from Lilbon : and on
Thursday the brigMurfree, capt. Green, do.
Lift of American vefiels at Lisbon, July 26.
Ships Margaret, ; Ca Ira; Wyer ;
Cleopatra, Smith ; Chace, Johnfton ; Glo
riana, Coffin ; brigl Polly, "Tufts ; George
and "Harriot, Florence ; Zephyr, Hench
man, Boston. Ships Ann Catharine, Preble ;
Citizen,
New-York. Ship Alphabet,. Post, Phila
delphia. Ship Alexandria, Bayne, Atex
indria. Brig Franklin, Edenton, Wifcaf
fet. Schr. Lark,' Miller, Gldcefter.
HAVANNA SUGARS.
FOR SALE,
1400 boxes and calks prime white Havan
na SUGARS,
On board the fliip Packet, Silas
Swain, Mafler, now lying at Marcus Hook.
For terms, apply to Capt. Swain, on board, to
Capt. S4mukl Smith, iu Front, near Wal
nut ftrcct, or to
• Philip Nicklin, & Ca.
W lO °ff er the (aid Ship
Hamburgh Packet
for SALE or CHARTER.
She is jjo tons regilter, coppered to the bends,
fails remarkably fall, and aan be ready to re
ceive a cargo in a few days.
Ser-t 1T ■ daw
Antigua Rum, "
JUST arrived at Wilmington, Delaware
State, and now landing from on bf>ard the
Brig A.i\ive, William William?, Mafler,
One hundred hhds. 3d & 4th proof,
Asd for Sale by
jehv f HolUngftuorth & Co.
Wilmington, Sept 21. dtf
N. B. The above Brig,
and the brig GAYOSO, arc
-airo for Sale or Charter,, and
n " w ready to receive a cargo
on hntfrd. at Wilmington. Apply as above.
Sundry Lots
IN the following Squares in the City of Wafliing
fon wiil be to Public Sals, by theiub
fcribcrs, on the second Monday in October next,
at the Little Hotel, in the laid City, to com
mence at IQ o'clock
Square No. 3a,'41, 43. 44. 47. 4#, 49. JO, SS,
66, 5>7,68, 69, -o, 73.74,75. ?<S 77. 78. 79. ior,
loi ioj, 1 IS, 119,120,141, 6», 56, 84,104, iy,
88 S9, 104, i' 4. Il . < - I 20 ' 61, 166, Ba, icj,
square east of Cjuare 87.fiinrc foiltH ol fquara IC4,
square sorthof louareßi ( fqi:?reeaft ol tquari i'B,
iijuani rortinef
These L6ts are advantageoitfly fituattr' in the
neighborhood of the Prefidt nt', and deem
ed equal in value to any in the city, and will be
peremptorily lold ; clear and valid titles will b«
made to the * ufchaftr, jtn receipt of the ] lAchale
money. Terms ot faie, aic, goo 1 mtej, negotia
ble' at the Bai k of Columbia, <>ne fourth pa: t :a
ore month, one other icur'h in three months, on
other fourth in five month-, and the remaining one
fourth in seven months.
IVILLIAM BE A KINS, >l.
UK .AH FORKEST. «
Sept. 11. dt;
The Health-Office
IS removed to. the City-Hall, and is kept open
ni<!.tand cay, where persons having bufmefsnjay
apply. W<m. ALLEN, Heakh Ofticer.
' Sept. 4- «tlFIVE DOLLARS REWARD.
RAN away from the subscriber, an indented
. Servant Girl, Navcy si «oirsc/n, a
hout twenty years of age, Ihort, thiik fct pcrfon,
With (hurt black hair ; had on when fiie went away,
'j darh-rf-aiicogown, an old black C!k cloak, and a
Stack fur Hat. Whoever will fecurefaid girl, ?nd
?ive information thereof to tbe fuh'cribcr. No. 2,
Greenteif alley, or to the office of this Gazette,
lhall receive the' above reward.
All afe forbid harbor.ing.fiid girl, as
they will be dealt with as the law directs' r
MARY ANDERSON,
N. B. Sai l Girl is from Ireland, and has been i*
this country but a (hort time ; she was f< tit to the
work-house for mifconducfi, where lljt was taken
. lick and removed to thu cky-liofjiicil, from which
place she made her efi»pe.
33. eo^t
i o be fold at Public Vendue,
To the highrft bidde'r, at the house of Mr.
William Evans, the sign. of the Indian
Queen, in the city of Baltimore, on the 25th
day of Oiftober next, at U o'clock, A." xVI
• About Teveit tiicufan<j acres of land,
it* pro'pti ty Philadelphia,
lying between - WeftmillftL| . (
commonly called Little' Winrf . h< _ (urn _
p,ke ' o;K J> jruns through a part of
thtfc lands) the trai llc J^ 3 about 17 miles
fr ™"tr r r .Jt& hundred yards
o> W R e .fl V HWnj( dat£nilsto d . f _
tance cf about IpStfihtce n.Hes from Balti
more, and pn t jj e majji f 4 || t Patapfico
r|fC Vi i)m three to four miles .thereon. Will
L *-—in tracfls of one hundred and fifty to
three hundred acre. There is a large propor
tion cf meadow and wood land 011 each traifl,
some of thern highly improved, with excellent
buildings itld fine grsfa.
ALSO
A traft of seven hundred acres of
land, called Clover Farms, within fjvt miles of
Biadenlhurg, efteemej very gocd for Grass.
Richard Ponfonby,of Bladenfourgh, will shew
this land to any perlpn inclined to purchase.
ALSO,
A tra& of land cf about three hun
dred and thirty acre», within about two miles
and a half o. the houfe in tllfr'Fede
ral City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fine
high profpeft, fron. which may be fceH the
city of Vv afhington, Bladenfburgh, Alexandria
and a part of George-town, and many miles
down thr Potomac river. Mr. Richard Por.fon
by, of Blader.fburg, will also (hew this land.
A liberal credit will be given for the greatest
part of the purchale money, i'he terms will
bf made known on the day sf sale.
May 8 w-m
Just Received,
From Eatavia (via Providence)
A few Boxssof Spices, confiding of
Nutmegs, Cloves and Mace
For (ale by *
IVILLWGS& FRANCIS,
Pent, fir eet.
way 30 dtf
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 319, High-Street.
GEORGE DAVIS,
BEING busied for fom« time pad in prrpara- j
tions for removing ihto his pr«fent*houfe, has ,
been unde theneceffityof podponinguntil this day |
informing the g/:nslemen Of the Bar generally thro' j
the United States, that fiTs spring importation of
law books is now arranged and ready for fate, on
terms that he trulls will entitle him to the like pre-
Irecuse he has experienced for leveral years part.
> Catalogues, combining the jnoft varied collec
tion ever imported ifito this country, are printed
and will be delivered on application.
June 27. - law 6w
City Commijjioners'' Office,
June 21, 1797.
IN pursuance of an ordinance from the leledl
and common councils, pafied the lid day of
May lad, appointing the ciiy commifiioners,
and prefcrihing their duties, fedtion 9th,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
That the city is divide!} into five diilri&j,
each to be under the fuperintendance of one of
the city commifiioners, uhois to be individually
relponiihle for the cleanlincfs of the fame, and
are as follow.
Driftridl No. t. From the south fide of Ce
dar-ftreet,to the north fide of Spruce-fireet, un
deithe fuptriNtendence of Nathan Boys.
a. From the norrV fide of Spruce-ftreef, to ,
the north fide of Walnut-street, under the fuper
intendrnce of If gh Roberts.
3. From the north fide of Walnut to the south
fide of H Igh-ftrcet, under the superintendence of
Joseph Claypoole._ *
4. From the north fide of High-flreet, to the
north fide of Mulberry street, under*the super
intendence of 'William Moulder.
5. From the north fide of Mulberry-ftrret to
the north fide of Vine-street, under the super
intendence of Nicholas Hicks.
The cleaningof High-ftrcet to be in common.
A flattd meeting of the city commifiion
ers is held at the Old Court Houfd, in High-
Bred, every Tuesday evening at 5 o'clock.
July '4- ; eotm
Stands for Draymen,
Iu pur/uance of an Ordinance from tbeSelefi and
Common Counch, bearing date tbe nd day of
lApril, ;797, providing for tbe appointment of
City CommiJJioncrsi S3c. Sell, the 15th.
following places are fixed upon by the
said City Commifiioners for Stands for
Draymen and their Horses.
In Vine-street, eastward of Front-flre«t, on
both fides. '
Saflafras, High, Chefnut and Walnut-fttreets,
eaflward of Front-street, on the no. th fide only.
Mulberry-ftrect, south fide from Front to
Third-llreet.
Front-ftrc«, east fide from Vine-street to ]
Elfrith's alley.
Front-street, from opposite to Black Horse al
ley to Hamilton's stores, east fide. 1
Waler-ftreet, weft fide from the north end of 1
Stomper's or Moorr's stores to Pine-street. 1
Penn-ftreet from Pine to Ce Jar-street, weft 1
fide. 1'
Drawhridge, north fide, east of Front-street. :
Spruce, Pine and ftreeu, east of Frost '
street, south tule. '
Dock-ltreet, between Walnut-ftr»et and the
flag ft one crolfincs, east fide, opposite George a
OrkleyV.
Second-street, between and Vine
fired!., weft fide.
Fifth-ftrcet, east fide from Chefnut to Mul- j
berry streets.
Saffafras-ftreet, from Third to Fourth-flreet,
/east fide.
No dray or horse to stand within ten feet of
anvpump. 1 h
STANDS FOR HACKNEY COACHES.
Pine-street, north fide from Fourth to Fifth c
fircels. m
Fiith-ftreet, between Chefnut and Walnut d
flreets, well. ti
Branch-llreet, north fide, between Third and fr
Fourth streets. fa
July 14. mwiScfim pi
Ed A Library Treat.
a- pabVi/hed, handfomsly printed en writing
'"> paper, price 1 dollar,
' A new edition of that popular and entertaininj
' ll _ work, entitled
nd r FOR3STER3,an American Tale ; beiTij
2. *. a to the hiilory of John Bull. rh^Clo
te, thier—lnaferiesof letters to a friend, with taead
dition of two letters, alluding to recent politica
as in America.
Th« following eitrafl: from the Clavis Allagorica
fliews the principal characters that are introduced
in John Bull, the Kingdom of England
ho Hi» Mother, the Cl urch of England
en . His Wife, the Parliament
ch IlisSider I'< g, the Church of Scotland
His Brother Patrick, Ireland
I ewi-, the K ; ng3om of France
His Miftreft, the Old Constitution
His new Wife, the National Rcprefentation
r. Lord Strut., the Kingdom of Spain
in Nicholas Frog, the Dutch Republic
th The Franks, the French Republic
*1 The Foresters, the United Stages of America
Robert Lumber, New-Hampfiiiri
d) John Codline, Malfachufetts
r> Humphrey Plowlhaie, ConneAicut
n- 1 Roger Carrier, Rhode Island
Peter Bull Frog, New-York
cs Julius Cxfar, New-Jerf«y
! s , William Broadbrim, Pennsylvania
p I Caffimar, Delaware
Walter Pipewood, Virginia
I i His Graudfon, Georje Wafhingto*
Peter Pitch, North Carolina
Charles Indigo, South Carolina
0 j George Trudy, Georgia
r- I Ethan Greenwood, V ermont
t> Hunter Longknife, Kentucky
rt Black Cattle, Negro Slaves
Rats, 'peculators
Mother Carey's Chickens, Jacobins
if S5" ' his popular and entertaining satirical hifto
j. ry of Anniicais attributed to the Rev. Dr. Bel
knap. It hasa great Ihtre of originality and 3-
s ' boHnds with genuine humour. It is continued
w -'own to the present time, and chara&trifes those
I ute political tranfaAions which havt caused so
1 much unealinefs in Am#ric..
- ' Sold ky'H. and P, RICE, Bookfellcr, No. 16,
, 8 *outh Sscond Street, and No. 50, Marke' ftaeet.
..! June %b. 5
'e LAW BOOKS,
a Latcft London and Dublin Editions.
H. & P. RICE, Booksellers,
1 No. Is, South Second, and No. 50, Market street,
f T AVE just received by the lite arriva's from
II ' London aifd Dublin, their fpriQg importa
tion, confiding of a variety of the latest and mod
! approved J aw Books, whicb, added to alrea
dy on hand, fornis the mod exteniive colicdtion ev
er offered for fa!e in this country. They thei efbre
beg leave to norio;, that from the nature of their
conne<3icnsin Dublin, they are enabled to fclllrifti
editions (a» they have hitherto at the very
lowed prices. The following are among tjic lated
publications.
Vefcy, jun'r» Reports in Chancery, 7 rcli.
Peake's Cases M. Nisi Prius ; Ridgeway's Reports
in the time of Lord Hardwick® ; Floyer's Procters
Pra&ice in the Ecclefladical Courts; Barton's
Treatise on a Suit in Equity ; Tidd*s Pradice of
the of Kind's Bench in Personal A&ions, z
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
on Ufcs ; modern Reports, 1* vols. London edi
tion.
s j H. and P. Rice expe<ft t« receive by the sirdar
! rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
• | Durnford and Ead's Reports, the ad part of Gil-*
f ; bert si.aw of Evidence by Loft, andanumber of
4 new publications*
June 16.
i he History of Pennsylvania,
, By ROBERT PROUD,
Ig now in the press, and will be publilhed,
with all convenient expedition, by ZtCHA
riah Poulsom, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will centinue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
( according to the printed proposals, until the
p work is ready for the fubferibert.
( J"ly 1 • aawtf
Printed Calicoes.
JOHNMILLER, Jun. & Co.
No, 8 Gbtfnut'Streety
1 Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS Beatly afiorted, rery low on
Hiort credit.
March 6. §
Richard and James Potter
HAVE removed their Counting House to No.
45, South Fifth-ftreet.
August ». w&ftt
—— —— ■ '
Lancaster, Harrijburgh Carlijle,
Shippenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
• * V
T"'HE public are requeued to take notice, that
1 the partnerlhip which has Ur Tome time fub
fifled bctwe.n Mathias Slough of Lancallcr, and
William Geer, it now difTolved: but, not as M.
Slough infmuates to the public without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on she fub
jc&%from M. Slough to W. Gecr, dated rhe 29th 1
December lad. a recital of which is not now deem
ed neceflary. Any gentleman who wishes to be
more circumstantially informed of the merits of
• this business, by applying to W. Gccr may have
the peruial of M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfe&ly jaftifiabie in attaching liirn
felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
public were pleased to confer on the fird effort in
this business, William in conjunction with
MelTrs. Reiiy, Weed and Wi:mer, is determined
to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at -
tention and dispatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can poflibly exert.
The above company, who are amplf provided
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
rendar the paflage fafe and commodious, inform
those wno wifb to patroniie and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their fiTats at
George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg,
Carlisle And Shippcnfburg. The fare as hitherto
eflablifhed.
For the further accommodation of the public,
a Stage will Hart every Wednesday from the house
of Samuel Elder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
buryln Northumberland county, every Thlirlday,
and return (rohi thence and arrive at Hairifburg
every Saturday, so tkat passengers defticed for
Lancafteror Philadelphia, may proceed o« Mon
days. -»
WILLIAM GEER.
Jan. 27, 1797.
N. 13 This Line of Stages llwtf from thr 1
house of William Fcrrac, in Lancafte/7 on every '
1 uc.'day and' Saturday morning aV 6 o'clock, pro- '
seeding to the weft ward; and from the house of '
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg every Wednes
day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa.-
trick Cochran's in Shipponfbui g, arid- return's '
from thence on every Thursday : performing the t
fans* routine daily as in its tour from Phifadel
phi*. * u niwf
City of Wafhingtort.
•s •
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
ig For tke Improvement '[) the Federal City.
0 A mignificent iwelling-hbilfe zc>ooodollars,
& 30jooo, are .50,000
' ' ditto 15,000 S: ca(T» 15,00 a 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 & rash 15,000 30,000
j' 1 ditto 10,000 & calh 10,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
« ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,(too
1 1 calh prize of „ to,ooo
1 do. 5,000 each,are « 10, coo
lo do. 1,000 - - 10,00 c
10 do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. 100 - ... 10,000
, 1 id <lo. 50 ■» so,ooo
•400 do. 1? - - 10,000
1,000 do, 20 . - 30,000
do. 10 - 150,000
a -
Prizes.
3 J,? ft I Blanks.
Jo.oop Tickets, at E:ght Dollars, 400,000
N. B. Tofavour thofc whs tr.ay take a quan
tity 0! ric?t -ts", the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
tktf t« jt drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
bllt ONE :
And approved notes, fecurinj payment in either
monsy or prizes, in ten days after drawing, will
be received for any number not lefsthan 10 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of
the privarte buildings to be ertSed in the City of
Washington— Two beautiful designs are already
(clewed fop the entire fronts on two of the public
squares; from these drawing? it ispropofed to erect
twocentreand f ourcomer buildings as soon aspof
fible after this tottery is (old, and to convey them,
■ when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
1 the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel
c Lottery. A nett deduction of five per cent, will
3 be made to defray the rieceffaly expeufes of prim
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
» the fund intended for the National University, to
be eredled within the city of Washington.
'The real fecuritresgiven /or the payment of the
Prizes, are held by tre President and two DireA
sr»of the Bunk of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount of the lottery.
S AMU ML BLODOET.
•§• Ticket, may he had at the Bank oi Col*m
, Ilia ;of James Weft & Co. Baltimore ;of Feter
r Oilman, Boston ; of John Hepkinj, Richmond ;
- and of Riritard Wills, Cooper's Ferry.
' msef
From the Ot/ego Herald.
CAUTION.
r TTTHKREAS a combination of men in this
1 VV county have undertaken to enrich them
r fel ve«, by fabricating titles to fundr/vakiable trails
t of land, the property of gentlemen living in New
York, Philadelphia, London and Paris, for which
. trails of land large sums of money have been paid
1 to those fraudulent men, by innocent purLhafers •
' It >s therefore just that public information should
s be given, to theend, that.thc injured may feekre- ;
f arefs while the men have property, and are to be
' found. Those who have been discovered are Tru
man Harrifon, Joseph Witcomb, said now to re
- lide in the county of Saratoga ; Thomas Kelly and
several othen who go under fictitious names. It is
- supposed that the lands offered for faleon those fa
f britated titles, are at lead worth fifty thousand
■' dollars. Such as we have adtual knowledge of are
1 as follows : Lots No. ir and Iz, Otfego patent,
theufanS acres each, the adtual property of William
Pellwyn,'n»w of London ; lots No. 58 and 64.
fame patent, thousand acrfcs each, the property of j
Mr. C'haumont, uow of Paris, and lames Avenll |
and others, of this State. There foine grounds '
, to fuppof. <l<—c the lands of Richard Wells and I
Charles W harton, of Philadelplria, are under their
t management.—-The Printers will do well to give
this a place in their papers, as welt to caution the
, public purch.ifmg those lands, as also to de
prive those men in future from imposing on indivi
dual, which their education and have en
abled them to do heretofore. Witcomb has been
a shopkeeper of some nore in this country.
The following affidavits will fct in a clear point
of view the wickcdnefs of those men,which wkan
the public have perused, will induee them to ex
tufc the interference of ' ' Wm. COOPER.
O'fego, July 28th, 17J7-
1 Thomas Kelly, of the County of. Otfego, hav- 1
, ing been led into an error, by John Witcomb and
Truman Harrifon, of the fame County, to sign a
deed to thetn, for lot No. 58, Oifcgo patent, which 1
- was the property of William T|. Franklin now Mr.
Chamont's and others ; and further the said Joseph 1
and Truman did persuade me to do this ngainft my 1
inclination, which was made out 011 the icth day
of November, 1793, or set back two years so as !
to bring it to that time ; and further the name bf
Pardon Starkstothat deed was a fictitious name., ,
there being 110 Auh perlon there. To this I inalile |
voluntary oath. THOMAS KELLY. ,
19th July, 1797. ' ,
On the 19th July, 1797, came personally before <
s me, liiomas Kelly, the fuhfenber to the above as- I
fidavit, and made ljilcmn oath that it contains noth
ing but the trvih.
FI.IHU PHINNEY, jufiice of the'Pelce.
On the 18th July, 1797, c#iie before me Jacob
Kibby, a person by me wcll'kuown and worthy of '
good credit, who onhis solemn oath did fay, that
two of the parties abovementioned did make ap
plication to him this deponent, some time in the j
winter of 1796, to make tliem a deed for two thou
sand acres of land in the patent, and pro- c
liiifed this deponent a fharc of the profits, on the 1'
sale of said lands, for his so doing ; and that they i*
madeapplicationfeveral times for the fame purpoljr, c
which fk-rvic#» this deponent as often refufed, de- "
claring to them that he had no right to lands, and ?
coulddo 110 such thing ; which daring attempt on I
thisdaponent's integrity he had related airong his "
friends several times, previous to making this affi- ii
davit. JACOB KIBBEY. a
Sworn before me, 0
ELIHU FHINNEY, Justice of the Peace.
Aug. 3. law4W.
rhirty Dollars Reward.
EI.OPED from the service of the fubferiber,
on the 19th inftjnt, a negro man by the J
name of DICK", about ears of age, _
and five feet nine or ten inches high; by trade T
a carpenter, and is a very lively brisk work-
man. Blfcountenance is very, good—When
spoken to, he converses with eaie and confi- p
dence, and is pretty sagacious. I purchased
the said fellow of Mr. Dubney Minor, in whose {■,
name he has been advertised in the Richmond r j
newlpapers Diirjng his last runaway trip (last f c
summer ) he was employed a cdnfiderable length
of time, by some person near Dbmfrics, from
which circumstance, I conjediure, he has taken J£ '
another hothern route. 1 forewarm all persons
trom giving him employment, of any kind 1
whatever, and maftersof vefTels and others, from
carrying him out of this state. The above re- m
ward will be given if hi is taken within forty 0 j
miles us this city ; and an additional sum, in
proportion to the distance he may be Brought, .
nr the trouble and expence the apprehender may
be at, in bringing him to thi6 place.
AUG; DAVIS.
N.B. His apparel was the ulual negro kind, j jsj
but lie had more cloaths tlian is cuftemary for r
them to poflefs.
A.D.
Ricbmend, June ix» 1797-
Will be Landed,
From on board the (hip Aiflive, Capt.Bum,from
Hamburgh,
20 baks white Ruflia
2 tafts Clover Seed
For Sale by \
* Sj Thomas Herman Liuffer,
on North Fifth {l-reet, No. 54.
oo J ane £
°° William Blackburn,
00 LOTTERT and BROKER'S OFFICE
00 No. 64 south Second-flreet.
00 ' I JCKETS jn the Canal Lottery, No. 11, which
00 A commenced drawing the 19 th May, FOR
-, c SALE. The price of tickets will rife in prcpor
-30 t'on as ths-drawing advances, particularly on ac
-30 ceunt of the five firit drawn tickets, prizes of
JO four thousand dollars each, on the last Say of
30 drawi »£-
Check Boc'is kept for examination and register- |
>n i n g> in the Cattol, No. a, City of Washington, No.
2, and Paterfon Lotteries.
A Iso, tickets for falc in the Schuylkill bridge and
Perkioracn Bridge lotteries, which will begin
drawing in the courfeof the fiftnmer.
~ -The bufmefs of a Broker in all kinds of Stock,
'0 Bills, Note*, Lands, &c- &c. tranfa&ed with the
- utmost actention.
n- June a tufrf
,t Erfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
" By ROBERT CAMPBELL'& Co.
No. 40 South Second street,
[Price 31 Cenu]
as A View of the Causes and Confequen
of cts of the present War with France.
'y By the Honorable Thomas Erskine.
a M * y,lJ L_
J STATE TRIALS.
in Sold by W. Young, Bookfcller, No. J», South Se
el cond-ftreef,
11 The Pennsylvania State Trials,
C f the impeachment, trial, and acqviit-
V-' »l of FrancisHopkinfen, Judge of th« Court of
0 Admiralty, and John Nicholfon, Comptroller Gen
eral—ln one large 8 vo. vol. , Price, in boards, 3
c dollars.
W. Yooko hat for sale, a general assortment of
1 Books. Also, Stationary, retail and by the pack
age, well ailorted,and entitled to the drawback if
axpetted. J ¥ ] y jX'
i~*Hh SUBSCRIBER. having been appoimed by
the Envoy Extraordinary and Minider Pleni
potentiary of his Biitannic Majelty, General Agent
lor afTifting Briiifh creditors, and such particular a
geids a« they may specially kuAiorizc, in prolecuting !
their claims before the c»mmiflioneri forcarrying in- I
toeffeft Ihe sixth article ot.the Treaty of Amity. Com- I
s ( merer and Navigation bettom his Britannic kajejiy and j
- the United States »f America, hereby gives nonce tkat !
« he has opened his office at his house the south ea!t '
v corner of Chefiiut and fifth ftieecs, Philadelphia,
1 where he is retdy to receive all claims or indruiiions
i for claims wiih the vouchers aud documents thereof,
lor the purpose of bringing forward the fame agree-
J ably so the rules and ocders which the board may
. think proper to prescribe.
e And ai it will be for the interest of all concerned,
_ that several claims be so dated, and support.
Ed, as to prevent the delay which would arise from
the neceffityof obtaining further information, or ad
ditional materials,from perlonsrefiding at a distance, j
s the general agent thinks it his duty to add, (for the
* direction chiefly.of those, who, not having employ •
ed particular agents, may leave the profeeution of
c their claims to his charge and that all
, such olaims ought in particular 10 set forth— s"
1 ift. The proper defcrimion and fitnation of the
, creditor or claimant, end original debtor, refpeft
f : ively.
I I ad. date andnatureof th« original contractor
s debt.
1 I 3d- When, in what manner, and to whatextent,
- 1 the creditor or claimant wis prevented or impeded,
f by the provision, operation or deleft of law, the
. decifionsand practice of courts, or reflraint of exe
cution, from recovering payment of the debt in
question.
4<h The lofsand damage incurred or fullained,
in confequercc of such impediments, whether the
1 fame may have arisen from the infolveney, change of
situation, or death of the debtor, the loss of legal
remedy from lapse of time, or othercaufes impairing
' the value and security of tire debt, which would not
■ have so operated if such impediments had notexifled.
And sth. The particular grounds and reafens on !
which, the claimant maimaiiu, in the terms of the
. treaty, that "by the ordinary coutfe of judicial pro- '
| ings, the creditor cannot now obtain and atluiliy
have and receive full and adequate compensation" for
the lodes and damages so fufiaiued! ' 1
The general agent thinks it his duty further to fug
ged that the several claims ought (o be accompanied
and fuppor led by the affidavits of the claimants duly
sworn and regularly attested, both as to the exiftente
of the debts claimed, and such other circumfiances
as may be within their own knowledge refpo&ively.
And wherever the claimants in dating the nature of j
their evidence (which mud in every indance be the 1
bed of which the cafe is capable) have orcafion to
refer to the teflimony of witnclles, it will be proper t
toagprifothe genetal agent of the names ami plaer« c
of rehdence of such witneflesand the fi£lsto be etia- J
blifhed by their tedimony. v
Writ. Moore Smith.
Philadclokiat June Bfh, 1707. d f
For Sale, 0
That well known place > called Pandeqrift's
firry,
ON Nefhaminy creok, 18 miles from Phili- _
ladelphi2, on the New York post ro»d,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the *
premifcsarea largfe two iloty ftene house occu
pied as atvern, and a good one story ftonekit- 1
chen, a large frame liable with a good threshing -*
floor, and l'ome out buildings—also a well of n
good water, and an excellent ice House. On °
this place is a molt elegant situation fora gentle- "
man's feat, commanding a vjtw of (he Nefham- c
iry to itsjun<£lion wiih the Delaware, and thence °
across to the Jerfty shore. It has the privilege f,
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply tQ the Stiblwriber,
MORDECAI LEWIS. C(
V =V 24- ,?tawtf. ni
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young' Ladies. Ul
MKS. GROOMBKIDGE with pleaf- d>
ureand refped, returns her finccre ac- re
knowlec'.gement for the liberal encouragement
she has received during four years refjdence in '
Philadelphia ; and allures her friends and the ~
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, she has made a fupenor arrangement for -p
rhe niffre convenient accommodation of her f
scholars.—Every branch of ufeful and polite n3
educatian is particularly attended to by Mrs. f n
Groombridge and masters excelling in their f j,
rcfpeiliveprofeflions. j r
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets. 311
June 5 th, 1797- jljmftf d,
The situation is perfectly liealtky ; and made j- a|
more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the house.
Juji Publijbed, - J;
And to be had of Mcflrs. Campbell,Rice,
Carjr > arki the other pricipal Bookfciicrs. in the
city,price one dollar* twmty-f.vb cents,in hoards,
New Views of the Origin of the h"
Tribes and Nations of America.
By I'.ENJAMIN iMITH BARTON, m. d.
June w. *6t
No. 183.
obi Qifi/ iQ us I*tunfyl-vania, I* *'V .•
l. s.
c n fifteenth day of June, in the twenty
firfl year of thelndependence of the United
-tates ot America, Jamis Woodhovs;, of
tftf said diftridl, hath deposited in this office the
title of a book, the rigtit whet*of he claims as
author, in the Words following, to wit :
' ' le Chemist's Pocket Companion,
. v be.ng a Defcrjptir.n of a Portable Labaratory,
" '' containing a Philnfophical apparatus, and a
'• great number °f Chemical Agents, by which
ich « any person may perform an endless variety of
38- " arrufing and inflrudling Experiments, defign
>r- <i c( j , ar she ufeiof ladies and gentlemen, and
lc - " intended to promote the cultivation of the
01 " Science of Chemistry in the United States of
0 " America. By Jamfs Wogdhouse, M. D.
-t Profefior of Chewiftry, in the Urtiverfity of
, " " Peinfylvania, President of the Chemical S'o
" ciety of Philadelphia, &c.
id „ " At , R^ 15 ' ever y thing that is not denomU
in n <*ted Chemiflry, is but 2 small part of a iyf
" tem of natural knowledge,
k, Prie,?!y on Air"
he In conformity to the afl of the Congress of the
United States, intituled, " An a<sl for the encour
agement of Learning, by fecuringthe copies of
Hiapf, charts, and books to the authors and pro*
pnetorsiof-fuch copies, during the times there
in mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL, Clerk of the
Diftridl of Pennsylvania.
J"'y d.n-wstf
No. 188.
DiflriS of Pennsylvania, to wit :
(l. s.) R £ ,t REMEMBERED, that on the
J twenty sixth day of July, in the twen
ty lecond year of the independent of the United
States of America, John Eenno, of the said dif
e- tri<a,hath deposited in this office the title of abook,
the right whereof he claims as proprietor, in the
words following, to wit :
t, '* Ohfervations on certain documents contained
"ed Stateafor theyrar 1796,"in which the charge
«' of speculation, againil Alexander Hamilton, lute
" Secretary, of the Treasury, is fully refuted—
jf " Written by himfelf "
In conformity to Ihe a<S if the Congrcfs of th«
Ucited Stales entituled, "An ad for the encour
agement of learning, by securing the copies of
maps, charts and books to the authors and propri
etors of Juth copies, during th« times therein mca
y I tioned."
;; SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clik of the Diflria of F.emiMvama.
e J u, y *7- " ' «<»■
j Public Notice is hereby given,
d j Fat June term, 11797, a petition was
it J- presented to the Court of Common Pleas,
't held at-Yark Town, in the State of Peonfylva
'» nia, at the inflance s>f James Short, praying
'* ,h . e Court t0 fi'pply a 10/t deed made by 3 f er- %
,• tain Andrew Hickenluber, to Hugh Morrifon,
y James Morrifon, and John Samole, executors
to Hans Morrifon, deceased, for fix hundred
I, J eres of Land, situate in Menallen
t. township, in the county of York .-—AH per.
a sons who have any objeaions to make to the ob
'he ?»id petition are desired to attend at
f ' 4ti^t oUrt . Hou f c > in 'he town of York', on the
e itnaay of September next, otherwise the loft
j deed will be supplied.
Il „ , JOHN EDIE, Clerlt.
7 u h 1 2-
c- - . ,
30 Dollars Reward.
RAN away on Saturday last, two indented Ser
vants, Gifford Dally, a mulatto boy, .ibout 17'
, years of age, a Aim light built adive fellow, can
e re«d and write,five feet seven or eight inches high,
- has a heavy countenance; had on a fuftian coatee'
» and trowfers, a high crowned Hat, fine /hoes «cc.
Allan Hcllons, a black man, about 14 years of
> "ge, five feet seven or eight inches high, a t!i ick set
5 cluaify built fellow, particularly about the breech;
had on a fai!or's blue jacktt lined with fwanfein,
, (^ar ' s striped vest, fuftian trowfers, high crowned
; ha <> cearfe shoes, &c.; each of them had several
Dii/ts and several other cloathes with them. Thir-
ty Dollars will be paid for the runaways or 15 dol
lars for each, and reafonaMe charges, oa delivering
. them at No. 54. North Third-street.
, I hv : : black fellow is about a year from Lewi<
Town, in the Co»nty of Suffer, state of Dela
ware, and has taken the boy withhim.
J»'>- 31- mtu&f jit
To be SOLD or RENTED,
A LARGE 3 ■ Story Brick on the
South fide ©t Filbert street, between
Eighth and Ninth, lately occupied as'the Sur
veyor General's Office.
The Building is 36 feet front and 3 5 feet detp,
the lot t jo feet deep, with the privilege of a nine
feft wide Alley extending the whole length of
the lot, to a thirty feet wide Court for Carriages
to pun in. The House is not plastered, and
may be turned either i*tto one, or two dwelling
Houses. It is luitable for a iarge Manufactory,
or Avpuld make a good Tavern. Immediate
pcfleiTion will be given.
Apply to No. in, Chefntft-Street.
A "g-"- cod .31.
v Mufual Injtrument Manufattory,
h'o. I (5 7, Arch-Street.
H ARPER,harpfichord, grand, portable grikd,
pier table and square piano torte
make r from London, returns thanks to his friends
and the public, for tlieir liberal encouragement',
and hapes that by his afiiriuity and n to ev
ery branch of his bufinefsj toirerit a coctinuapci;
of their favors. Piano fertes made on the newefl
and most approved plans, with pedals, patem,
fwcll. and French harp flop, which hefUtteis,
himfelf will „e found on trial by
judges, to be equal if not superior to any import*,
ed, and twenty per cent cheaper. Ai y inilru
m&nt purchased of him, if siot approved of in,
twelve months, he will exchange.
N. B. All kinds of' M*fical inftru.Tierts n
uned, and repaired Tf-ith the greatest act ura< •,
difpatth, and on the molt realocabje term-, fir
ready money only.
Second Piano Fortes taken in exchange.
Mayac.
Forty Dollars Regard.
RAN away from the fublcrifcer on the fee #*
onddivof this inif. July, a Mulatto Man,
named Will Bowzer, about forty years of age,
five feet seven or eight inches high, rather
chunky made j had qa when he went a-.Vay, a
drab colored cloth coat, Itriped purple trow fers
and jacket. It is probable he will change
cloa.thes, as he took a number with him. The
fa id felW formerly belonged to Mr. Charles
Blake of this place; and it is expelled he has
maritf towards Jones's Neck, in the Delaware
State.—Any person apprehending the feid frf
low, and securing him fa that I can get hin> a
gain, ftiail receive the above reward if taken
out of the county, arr.d Twenty Dollars if in
the county, and all reaforuble charges if'bro't
home*
JESSE REED,
Queen Ann's County, Marykmd.
July 3. W3t