©aJCtte.(,I„ ©tlitca States,... Philadelphia Daily Advertiser,
AT VMBEt) 1656 J
Marshal's Sales.
United States, )
Piiafylvania Diftrift. J IT, .
of * writ of f>«ri Facia.'iflucd outofthe
JJ Court of the United State, forthe Penn
tytvania Diflria, to me direfted will be expotd ta
Public Sale, on Tuesday the second day of
January next, at fevcu o'clock in tbe cveuinr,
M the Merc hant's Coffee House in &Ko<id Stieet, m
the city of Philadelphia, the following tra£>s and par
cels of vacant and unimproved land, fuuated is the
County of Bedford in the State of Pennsylvania— to
wit: one tr.fl of land called Rufli Bottom, situated
on the waters of in Belfaft township
in the fame county, bounded by land, of Jacob Bore
roan, William Defhong, Ralph Brooks and other.,
containing three hundred and ninety-one acres, and,
one hundred and thirty two perches and the ufnal al
lowance.
, Gn . e 'fafl called Newland, situated in Belfafl town
> lhip in the fame county, bounded by land, of Georre
S>F«. M°nci Difcliangs, Ncai Wtlliam Difchang,
John Ruffle and others, containing four hundred and
/ four acre, and three qnarters, and the usual allowances.
One traft called Hickory Ridge, situated on the
waaer. of Tonolaway creek, in Belfaft township in
the fame county, bounded by lands of Elias Rutman
Peter Streights, George Boreman, Monci Defkong,'
.nd other., containing four hundred and forty-four
acres and ninety-fix peache. and allowance, &e.
And one traft called Gold Mine, situate on the
waters of Tonolaway creek in Belfaft township, i„
the fame county, bounded by land* of William Woods
Peter Swarwler, John M'Lett, Jacob Boreman, Tho
mas Logan and oth< rs, containing three hundred and
seventy acre, and fifty-fix perch® and allowancea, &c.
The foiegoing ttaft. .re all patented, feized'and
taken in execbtion a. the property of Philip Reilly,
and to be fold by
William Niehols, Marjhal.
» December 23, , ritaj.
x Maiihal's Sales.
United Statu, 7 _
Petinfylvania DiftritJl, J
BY virtue of a writ of fieri facias iflurf out ef
the diftria court of the United States for
the Fennfylvania diftrifl, to me direiled, will
be exposed to sale, on Tuesday the second
Cay of Jjuuary next, at seven o'clock in the
evenings at the Merchants' Coffee-hohfe in
i'eeond-ftrcet, in the city of Philadelphia, the
following tra<sls or parcels of vacant and unim
proved LAND, situated in the county of So- -
merfet, late c«unty of Bedford, in the state of
Pennsylvania, viz.— j
A certain trail, surveyed in the name of Ma- j
ry Eafleman, containing three hundred & eighty -
acrei and the usual allowance &c. situated on the
waters of Stony creek, in Stoney creek township,
and bounded by lands surveyed for Joseph Kirk- (
bride, John Koad«, Charles Reinfhaw, and o- {
therg. 0
A certain other tra<fl, fnrveytd is the name 0
V George Campbell, containing four hundred o
-and ten acres and allowance &c. fltuated on the 0
weft fide of Alleghany Mountain, on the waters o
of Stony creek, in Stony creek township, for- h
merly Bedford, now Somerset county,and bound- p
ed by land* surveyed for Joseph Kirkbrida, Ma- J'
ry Eafleman, Jehu Rowfer aud others. ol
A certain other triiH, lurveyed in'the name of
Benjamin Lodge, containing four hundred and
fourteen aires & three quarters & allowance,&c.
(ituated on the waters of Clear run, a branch of £
Stony creek, in Stony creek towsfKTg, if) the
eountr atorefaid,and bounded by lands surveyed
for William Gattack, William Skinner, George
Campbell and ither.. ' f
A certain other traiS, surveyed in the name of .
Richard Williams, containing three hundred a j
and niuety-feven acres and a half and allowanee
Y &c. situated on the stale road and old road lead- C(
ing from Bedford to Pirtlbui-g, and or. the wa
ters of stony creek, in Stony creek township, in
the county aforefaid, and bounded by lands fur _
■veyed'for Jacob Stotler, William Gotamy, Sa
muel Adams ;i»d others.
A certain other trail, surveyed in the name .
of William Gattack, containing four hundred (
and one acres uid a half and allowance Sac. litu- f e ,
ated on Clear run, a branch of Stony creek, in s*
Stony creek township, in the county aforefaid, Sti
and bounded by lands surveyed for Robert Wil- of
liaras, William Skinner, Benjamin l,odfi and 'n
others. 'T
A ctrtain oaher tr.fl, surveyed in the name m '
of Robert Williams, containing four hundred cri
and two acres and a half and allowance Ac. situ- on
ated on the waters of Stony creek, in Stony f
-creek township, in the county aforefaid, and
bounded by lands jfurveyed for Jacob Ziglar,
Richard Williams, Samuel Adams and others. J-
A certain other trail, fur\t;yed iu the. name
of James Johnson, containing three hundred He
'and ninrty.five acres and allowance &c. fitmted dr<
on bcth fide» of the state road, on tbe waters of cot
Stony creek, in Stony creek township, in the
couuty aforefaid, and bounded by lands surveyed
for Alexander Johnson, Joseph JEngle, Conrad " CO!
Weaver and others. P at
A certain other trail, surveyed in the name
of Alexander Johnson, containing four hundred '
and five acres and a half and allowance &c. situ- V er
ated on the waters of Stony creek, m Stony the
■creek township, in the county aforefaid, and rill
bounded by lands surveyed for John Lombard, °f •
James Johnson, Joseph Engle and others.
A certain other trail, surveyed in the name
of John Johnson, containing four hundred and
acre? and three quarters and allowance
&c. situated on the waters of Stony creek, in
Stony ereek township, in the couuty aforefaid, *
and bounded by lands surveyed for Robert Tuck- Pu '
nets, John Shoemaker, Mathias baker and a "'
. J , the
•thers. „
A certain other traiSl, surveyed in the name
William Campbell, contsining feur hundred
and seventeen acres and a quarter and allow
ance &c. situated adjoining jlones's road, afcd a c ; ce
.ou a large run emptying into Laurel-hill creek, ma .
called the North Fork of Turkey-foot, any
in Miilford township, in the county aforefiid, f,
and bounded by lands surveyed/or Joseph Bark- j
jcr, Malhias Goflet, Benjamin Rufsleand «thers. t
A certain other trail surveyed in the name of
Betsey. G.»lt>reath,containing three hundred & nine- J
ty nine acres and one quarter and allowance, &C. jjo.
situated on Roaring run, a small branch of I.aurel «
Hill creek, in Milford township, in ceunty a-
forefaid, and boundsdby lands surveyed for John Wat
Drivsr, Moses Parker, Jefeph Barker and others. Eilei
A certain other trad surveyed in the name of men
Joseph Barker, containing four hundred and three and
acres and One quarter and allowance, &c. situated Spri:
on a large run emptying into Laurel Hill creek a- Rott
bout a mile above \.he falls, in Milford township, in Vice
tbe county aforefaid, and bounded by lands fur- *
veyed for Mathias GofTett, William Campbell, Bet- no
fey Galbreath and others.
A certain other trail surveyed in the name of
James Ciffha, containing four hundred and one a- r.
cres and one quarter and allowance, &c. situated
on Jones's Mill run, a branch of Laurel HiU creek, Al
in Milferd township, in the county aforefaid, and to fei
bounded by lands surveyed for Rbert M'Connel, andh
John Hcndall, Benjamin Bankfcn a nd ethers. D;
PHILABr.LP-HIA, SATURDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 3 0, ,797.
A certain ether tratf surveyed in the name of
Mary Galbreath, containing four hundred and
•ne acret and allowance, Ac. situated on Jones's
tf the 7' l 'i rU *' a . br,lnch of Laurel Hill creek, iS Mil-
J enn- '•wnfhtp. in the connty aforefaid, and boun
;d to surveyed for Gabriel Hciftcr, Jane*
r of c,irn *. J«nc. Can.pb.ll ,„J othfrs . J
oinj, A certain other trad surveyed io the mtcs rfi
«, ui Jemee Campt-elf, nrntilnag four kttnjrcj aiu !
IPV" 1 P V" 25r5 r ,hrce * cres Bnd one quarter and allowance,
■ the Kc. situated on the hea l water, of Shaver'. Mill'
—t ° 'J* an , don both C<lf- of the middle road, part in
lated Milford and part in Somerset townlhipin the coun
? P J* aforefaid, and bounded by lands surveyed for
°' r V Tk f od l Memimger, William Sheaff, John Scott
le "- and others.
*!*!-' r CBrt,!m other traft surveyed in the name of
John Scott, containing four hundred and three a
,wo- C j es i,nc, thrc€ q u "t»rs and allowance, &c. fituat
orre ed °? the hea<l . witera of Shaver's mill run, in So
ang, m< r " township and Somerset county, late MHford
and 'ownlhip, Bedford county, aud bounded by lands
'cel. J or Willi » m Sheaff, Jnmcs Campbell,
the. illiana Scot* and others.
?in utmi- " rtain ° ther traCt ' fu " e y c<l *n the name of
ian, William Scott, containing three hundred and eigh
>ng, ty-nine acres, and one quarter, and allowance, &c.
Four situated on a large run, emptying into Laurel Hill
Creek, about a mile above the middle road, ip So
'he merfet towrrfcip, Somerset county, late Miilford
tin township, Bedford county, and bounded by lands
■«» surveyed for Isabella Gal! reath, William Coate.,
a d Martin, and other..
&c A certain ethei irafl, futveyed in the name of Sa
and mUC containing four hundred and thir-
II leen acre, and allowance, &c. fuuated on both fides
'• of the State road on the waters of Stony creek in Slot
ny creek township, formerly Bedford, now Somer. 1
jet county and bounded by land, surveyed for Samuel
Hillcgai, Cornelius Barns, Jacob Slotter and oihers
A certain other tract surveyed in tbe rameot Fran
cis Walker, containing three hundred and ninety.iwo
acres and a half and allowance, Arc. rttuatt4 on the t
wtter. of tbe North Pork of larkev Foot, »em the ,
line between Milford and Turkey Foot township., ,
Someifet county late B dford couuty and bounded by t
lands surveyed for Jeffe Brooke, John Brooke, William .
Btddle and Peter Footman and other.;
" he foregoing lands are held by warrant of Survey,
ne Seized and taken in execution as the prooartv of
in Philip Reilly. '
he M ilJiam Nichols, Marjhal.
_ December « 3 di2j.
of Marshals |Sales,
United Statea, 1 ir
Pennsylvania Diftrift. J " J
l "D V virtue of a Writ of venditioni exponit, issued e
JJout of the Circuit Court |of the United States, a
P» in and far the Pennsylvania DiflriA of the Middle I
Circuit, and to me direAed will be fold at public d
°" sale at the Marshals Office in Race Stroet No. 117. tl
on Saturday the 30th day of December infl. at i» C
o'clock at noon, two elegant engraved Copper plate, ir
of Shahefpeare, one plate of Harmony, Bartolezzi, "
le one plate of prudence, do. one plate of meekness, do «
rs one plate of beauty, do. and one plate of Harvest- "
r- home do—Seized and taken in execution as the «
i- property of Tniftram Bampfylde Freeman, and /
a- John Kicholfan, Merchants, trading under the fifm
of Freeman and Company, y
if And to-be fold by
William Nichols. Marshal.
c * Marshals office j
December 18th 1797 J dtf
I THE SUBSCRIBER,
ONE of the late firm of FREEMAN W Co.
n think, it a duty he owe. to himfelf, to de
clare, that he is no wife concorned in the property
above adveitiied by the Marshal!, nor ought he to
e be fubjetft to the frtd atSion, which will be disput
ed by the parry whose interefl it i..
n 1 r 'Jiravi Bamfylde Freeman.
December 11 dttoth ' rc
•* be Sold at Public Vendue, thi
e (If not htfore dfpofed of at private sale)
j Mondaythe firft dayof January next, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchant.'Cof
fee House, in Philadelphia, Twenty-Six Thousand Fr
II Seven Hundred and Eighty acre, of LAND, in the
, State ot New-York, between the northern bound.
- of Pennsylvania and the Su'qucbanra, now, or late
J in the township. of Uamden and Warren, and coun
ty of Montgomery. One fourth „of tl* purchale
t money ts be paid at the time of sale ; for the residue
j credit of one, two and three month., will be giveni ,
on inhered and good feiurity.
~ f Dec. 4. fltawtS.
i To be bold at Public Vendue, ""J
' (If not before difptjfd of at private sale) n OI
Monday the hrlt day of January next, at fix W ai
? \J o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants.' Coffee
I House, in Philadelphia, Forty Thousand Nine Hun
-1 dred and Thirty-Nine acre* of LAND in Green
f county, Commonwealth of Pennfylvania,on tha Wa- Ma
; ters of Fish and Wheeling andtru Mile Run.
[ Thefc lands are fertile, well timbered and abound in (
j -coal; they were Jfold ten years ago for ss. per acre,
patented early in 1787, except 3,700, which were pa
tented in 17Q2 ; the great eft part of them were sur
veyed in 1783.
This tr*& is between the Ohio and Monongahela,
very convenient to water carriage—about 19 miles from
the town of Waftiington, and from 14 to 16 from.the
villages ofGreen(burgh and Wheeling. One fourth
of the purchase money is to be paid at the time of
sale ; for the residue a credit of one, two, and three
months will be given, on intcreft and good security.
Pec. 1. 3tawtJ.
Thomas Randall,
PRESENTS hi. refpeSs to hi. Friends, and the .
Public in general, informs them that heha.openad
an Office, at his house, No. 88, Spruce street, for
the purpose of tranfafling business in the line of
Commniion and Agency, celle&ing rents and out- -
(landing claims in any part of the United States.— p (
He flatters himfelf, that from his long refidonce in <
this onuntry and a general knowledge of it, hia fer- "f T
cicts will be found worthy the notice of thoft; who V\
may please to confide to him the managemeat of Smtt
any of their concerns. and
N' B. Security given where required. Tick
nth mo 3tawtf IMti
' FOR SALE, '"g a
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. ss* the corner of phefnut and Front streets, ries i
A large quantity of Clocks and Un^°
Watches. Also, a general afTortment of Tools, f e n; n
Eiles and Materials, coafifting of Clock Movt
mcnts, eight dajr and thirty hour brass pinions L ani j
and f»rge work ; Bells, clock ai»d watch Dials, | )y
Springs, Hands, GlafTes, Putiice Stone, Emery, ntn
Rotwn Stone, Cat Gut; bench, (land and tail
Vicei; Turns, Pliers, Chains, Seals, Keys, &c. &c.
Appreatices Wanted,
november 3. f&tutf |- fi
To be Sold, i tA^
The time of a Negro Boy, Phiu
About fifteen years of age, has seven years yet to
to serve ; he is an excellent house servant, active accor
and healthy. Enquire of the Printer. work
December 1. d*w | Jul
By John Fenno, N" 119 Chefnut Street.
ana F'rcfh Raisins.
A Sm fi! ®* r? ° J u r- wHveJ,' ar.d uov» landing
at Chfifnut llreet wharf, from the sloop Va
>oun- rica. aft. HafkelJ. of Kegs, Boxes and
J e f f' £. i ,IW - la '' s e -SBp l Oropes, and sacks
Jjfcvr:. 1 «~yr» ■*;«"»
ane'e, ' AtJIjOTM Co.
Mfll § !t
' O " D U * p If ILI kl iFsTCa
I for ... HAVE fOR SALE,
Jcott - T their Stores on Walnut llreet Wharf,
rlavanpahSagars, whiteandbrown
aeof IS hhds. Jamaica do. j
;e a- 3000 pietc. of hroad Nankeen'.
:uat- ■Wper'afTea, in quarters and, eighths of chests
1 bo- Quickfilfer in tubs
ford Madeira Wine in pipes and hogsheads
inds leiieriSe Wine in pipe'
bell, Old ted Port Wiae in hogsheads
Sail Caqvafs, afTorted, No. I to 8
• f u MaD^ hcftcr Good8 ' eoßfitting of Dimities,
igh- Muflbets, Ginghams,Thickfctts, Corduroys, &c.
£» Ware, alltarted
Hill Nails, assorted
So- Black quart Bottles
ord Yellow Ocre in ceik.
tnds A quantity of writing Slates, slate Ink Stands, &c.
tte», 100 quarter casts Gun Powder
tin W also for SALE „T CHARTER,
hi,- Thifbip MOLLT, burthea 340 tons, a
ide, S ood vtffel, and compleuly fitted.
Sto. The trig AMAZON, burthen 1 500 bar
,lr. rels, mVy be ready for feain a few day.,'
mel The whole of the above vessels to be seen at
er» Walnut fireet Wharf, § Ir
'wo A person well acquainted with
tlie thetheoryandpraaiceoffcook-keepin^whohtsbeen
manyyf.itsrnjriged «do»lier.,
'F"> would he gtad to been.;-. dther as an agent
b y or sailor: or in porting bookt ; Hating unsettled
am accounts; or in executing any other kind of writ
ing, in French or English.
'of A note 10 J- A. and left at thi. office,
will be punitually attended to.
November 30. jawtf 1
~ FOR SALE, >t !
Wm. Young's Book Store,
No. 5», Second street, the corner of Chefnut street, I
REPORT of the Committee of the House of "j
Representative. of the United States, appoint
ed ed to prepare and report Article, of Impeachment
es, against WILLI A.M BLOUNT, • Senator of the
He United States, impeached of high crimes and mif
lic demeanor., made in pnrfuance of a resolution of
7. the House of Reprcfentativee, authorizing the said
1» Committee to lit during the recess of Congress, and
tes inflruiting them "to enquire, and, by all lawful
si, " means, todiCcovcr the whole nature and extent
io " of the offence whereof the said William Blount
ft- " Hands impeache J, and who are the parties and
he " affocutestherein."
id Printed by order of tbe House of Reprefentativei.
m December ia>. §
James C. & Samuel W. Fisher, .
J AT THEIR STORE, 5
N0.513, corner of Arch and Front flraets,
r BJtrt FOX ijilE.
Cottona«d trorftcd ffefier/in wnnks, assorted
A tew bales red, white, and yellow Flannels
Ditto f|itty romall Handkerchief. -1
>■ Ditto Puliicat Clk ditto
•- Ditto Pondicherry and Madrafs ditte a ,
y Ditto Gurrahs c '
• Bengal black Taffctics _
t- 4000 pieces Nankeens, and
Few chests befl Hylon Tea
Alfo —1500 boxes Weft London Window Class,
from Bby6,to 19 by 14—and 15 hhds. Olaf. 7
Ware, assorted, which they willdifpofe of cheaper
than any in the city. y
november «8.
Landing this day,
3 From on board ths schooner Two Friends, Dan* ar
e id Crawley, Mailer, p;
| Jamaica RUM, »
c FOR SALE BY p r
e George Latimer iff Son.
' uavetnber 9. {
James Ssf Richard Smith,
TAKE the liberty of informing their friends
and the public, that tkey have removed their
llort to No. 54, South FrontJlrect 4 next d«or to Ed- "
! ward Fox'« AuAion Room, where they have at
this time for sale, a large and general attornment of
, European isf East India Goods,
Many of which are }uft imported in the Clothier,
William Penn, &«. &c.
Oil. 17.
: NOW LANDING, bn
At South-street Wharf,
The Cargo of the Ship Concord,
Captain Thompson, from Batavia.
About 300 tons firll quality Java Coffee (the
whole having been lektfted) 1
80 tons Java Sugar, in cani.lers and bags
10 legurcs of old Arrack
Nutmegs, Mace and Cloves
rott sals \r, K
PETER I BLIGHT. kbc
Who also offeri For Sale, ty,
Juil landed from ship Amity, from Jantaica. lie y
ao® hhds, Jamaica Sugar, and of
170 do. do. Rum. Sch
november 23. d he 1
— < He
Canal Lottery—No. 11. van
W J on (
ILL cemnience drawing Monday, the zoth and
in ft. Tickets for Sale in tills Lottery, at nun
Seven Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURN*. Lottery arra
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Secoad-ftreet— the .
Tickets in «be Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Caw. and
Dollar,, where check books are kept lor regiftei'- at tei
ing and e.rjmining in these, the City of Washing- houf
ton, No. I|. and and informa- e d a
tion where tickets may be kadin m aft of theLotte- cula
ries authorised by law in any'gf the State, of the D
Union. *
N. B. The bufinef- of a Broker, in buying and
felling all kindu of Public Stock and Securities, Pi
difcounti ig Bills and Notes of Hand, fab 1 of chan
Lands., Houses, Sec. &c. will be duly attended to, editi
by Wm. BLACKBURN. Ch.d
november 15. §
The Hiflory of Pennsylvania, * C
•By ROBERT PROUD, cloth
IS nnw in the press, and will be published, j s f a
with all convenient expedition, by ZfCHAa w j t j )
Riah Poulson, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-Areet, |
Philadelphia, where fubfeription* will continue ...'
to he received, and at tbe Philadelphia Library, v
according to the printed proposals, until the
work is ready for the subscriber».
July 18. Wtf * Dec
CLERKSHIP.
iijiug —■
pYa- OUN'G MAN, who could bring indilou
-3 and ( "** -
sacks P-oye jin the capacity of copying Clerk, at a public
lifter " HlCc —He vvoiild Oilgagc on moderate term';
for further particular, enquire at th s office of this
Gaacctc. S . D,-c ,9
All Pcrions
Having jny demands agamft the EAate of the
late Capum George Irwin, arc reqtufied to
onng in their account, pioperly itteited, on or
'Wri r k"' ft day °* 'J an »ary next ensuing
and those who are indebted tp laid eilate Ere lb
"cited to make immediate payment to
oARAH IRWIN, Adminiftratiix.
■ s no v. 29 1797.
1 he Subscriber intends to make
"pplication for the a Certificate of. Share
a the Bank of ihe United States, (landing in the name
ha k °'S oo 4' dated July 11, 1797, toe sonic
ities, " iv 'ng been lolt. JOHN GRaH*M.
&c. Richmond, Dec. 1.
ROSS &» SIMSON;
, HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Coflas, and
c " a quantity of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica,
'> a St. Vincents, ( RUM.
and Bengal J
tar- 300 caikt RICE, and
A parcel of ship building RED CEDAR.
lat Oil. »7. j
jg- Chocolate and Mustard,
cfn a superior quality mojaufadlured,
er», /"I'NGEIf and Pet-pei, trouud : Ajlkii fa
cnt y peart tWlty , Phlfrdcfphisi Poster, Beer,
Jed , an<J ' Cyder j Taunton and Burton Ale ; ,
rit- London Porter j red, Port and Lilbon Wine,
luUable fur exportation or heme consumption. 1
ice, ihe tighefl pi given for Murtard-Seed. 1
Aljo for fate, A quantity of Booking and c
r common Baizes, a variety of colors; a bale of t
FuUiaiu, Shawls, «tc, for sale by ;
JOHN HA WORTH,
We. 98, south Fr»nt-f!reet. f
"• " ov - *7- ro.&ih.t.t J.
3°- Imported (via New York) on th 7
mt Hero, from Madras and Calcutta, and for
he [ ,le by the fubferiber, at No. 61, Chefnut facet,
if. between Second and Third Streets, the follow
ed ing articles .
Lid . Maharagonges Charconna Dcrens
nd Chintz and Calicoes Dacca worked muflios
ful Gillis Romals Bandannoes
nt Nil las & Penfiafoes Chafla Romalt
nt Blue cloth Hair ribbon
id MullMuH&ankerckiefs Palemporcs
Patna 40. Banares Opi*m
• t- Letter Cardimum Seeds.
_ Samuel Wilcox.
r, nevember ij tuths 4 w -
To Gentlemen who intend Jpending
the Winter in the' City.
d _
W ROOMS to LET, ,f'
ITH or without Board—at No. 114, corner
of Sixth and Race Stroets. The Ctuation
agreeable—and vieinity has been free from the Lite
contagion. Cel. 47.—dtf "
NOTICE. £
r» To holders of JAMES GREENLEAPt
t and EDWARD FOX'S Engagements to
TN conlequence of many having been prevent- ™
_ Aed, from late unavoidable circu.nftances from !! '
obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to formtr r
notice. 1 lie Truflees now inform them, they
- are ready to iflue the fame to those who may an- „
p.y within sixty days, at No. g Chefnut Street,
a»d those who do not, wilj beconfidercd as re
llnqiiilhing their claim on the Aggregate Fund
provided for their payment. * Lij
HENRY PRATT, tht
TWC MAS W. FRANCIS, vk
JOHN MILLER, JUN. tua
JOHN ASHLF. Y, *V
. \ JACOB BAKER. ol
r December 15. d(, o t „ r
i For by the Subscribers,
f Prime Riee in whole and half titrcts i ° f
Raurdeaux Brandt wa
Tentrife Wine Sch
Mo/afei attl
Georgia and Carolina Indigo t0 "
Ravens Duck and one hovjltead of fiai'Jt 1
hrufhes. " ' „
N. Cs* y. Frazer. I
No. iSt Santh Front Street.
Nov ' 1- dim. t ,
MUSIC. °>
J. L. LENZ, Bo j
Teacher ol Vocal and instrumental Millie, ,1
RETURNS hisfincere thaaksto the Ladies and j
Gentlemen, from whom he received a very
Kberal encouragemti,t since his refideoce in this cj- f ,'
ty. and informs his friends and the pub- , J
lie generally, that, in consequence of the requefl
of fomtof his friends, he has opened a Musical ° r
Scheol at his houfo in Spruce Street No 174, where f
he will teach o« the Piano forte, Violin &c. &c J
He deems it unnecessary to eulargi upon the ad P orl
vantages the learner will derive from an inftituti a^ol
on of this kind; he will only fay, that attention
and zcai are much excited in an afT«mbly, where f ren
numbers arc in pursuit of the fame objeA. His 1
arrangement is such, that an interference of the Offi
the different sexes will be avoided. Thoife Ladies ' N
itild Gentlemen who cannot make it convenient to
attend at his school, he will wait upon at their
houses.- Applications will be thankfully recciv- BY J
ed at hi« houfc, where his terms and further parti
culan may be known.
eCj 7- "rweod Eleg
I Alphabetical Lift of Duties,
Payable by law on all Goods, Wares, and Mer
chandize, imported into the United States—latest
edition, to be Cold by JOHN ORMROD, no. 41,
Ch'fnut street. Dac. 16-d '
STOLEN that
Out of the fubferibet's office a large blue
clothcloak,half worn. The infideof theGollar undei
is faced partly with scarlet velvet and partly Note
with scarlet cloth, and it has a silver Itook
a»d chain as a fattening. A suitable reward
will be paid for refWing it. L L.
WILLIAM MEREDITH
No. ? l.j South jd Street. D^ d
Dec. ,6. " dlw N " ;
TO BE LET,
And pofiefiion given the ift fanuary,
lllpu- II he Koufe No. 107, Arch-rtreet 1 ,
>l™" n Naar , thc cori!er of Thh-d Street.—For further
enquire a, above, or at No, 88, Vir.q
t this December v '. ff
1S _ ;; Ta __
it V&St
»n or buck House and Kitchen thereon, an apple
"um- f c', situate pn the ,rilh tra# lane, m the
re & th Wn > lP f°p l ,^j sr f r ? enfing ' abont ° nc from
re lo the city of Ph,ladelphia. Further particulars will
Mr P ° n a PP lica,iona ' "ie office of
x. the Philadelphia Gazette,
h for <+ " 4
ihare »: dtf_
r. a mc H y son aqd Young Hyson Tea..
r A JT che ? s of «* c 'Uent quality, For Sale, cor
_ ner of Second ana Pm« Greets.
_ December 16.
bcledt Subscription Balls.
, NEW ASSEMBLY ROOM,
UU Soutll flreer, between Chefnut ani Walnui
streets.
TV/f R ' FRANCIS refpedlfully informs the fubferi
„ t n s t0 , Ehu abov ' Balls . that the firft will be
on Turfday, the id of January, 1798-.
"> the Select Subfcrjption Ball,
will be admitted, by application to Mr. Francis, no
70. oor:h Eighth ftrect.
I p- T ""V, of f^fcrtptioß— each fubferiber to pay
J Tirh " Ch CD ? tles him t0 3 Gentleman*.
; ", nd , carU9 °' admission lor two Ladies, to
"ht
f. sag?stisjsa
• 011 Saturday the jeth inft.
lu -> Mr. Francis» days of teaching for hisvounp
on. pupil, tre Tbnrfday, and Satuidays from 3 o'clock
■ lu the afternoon till 6, and from 6 till 9 for those
id of a more advanced age. Private tnition either at
° ™ C . m , ly R<som ' or hi, House No. 70
North Eight Street: '
N B. Due notice will be given of Mr. Francis',
e t focond Prafiifing Ball.
Dec »*- dtldj
le NOW LANDING^
or Fron? 00 board tlle Farmer, lying at Harper's
et, ' Wharf,
w- Claret in hhds.
Ditto in cafe,
Sauterne Win* hi do.
n» I For Sale, apply to
John Whitejides & Co.
No - >3B. Mackst-ftreot,
] Also, on hand,
1 Bourdeaui Brandy in pi p e ,
|- Fine old Antigua Rum
A few cales of Claret, of a superior quality,
I november 29. $
* J Engliih Grammar,
S I The fee on a tdition $ 4vitb wiproveme&it.
I ZjL to the different classes of learners j
If X witl j an appendix, containing-futes and ob*
I lervations for aflifting the more advanced ftwdents
I to write with perspicuity and accuracy
" .. tk Y Lr !P LEY MURRAY,
le I , J sa publication of much merit, and full*
I answers the profeffion. in the Title. The appon
_ dix cbntatns some of the best rules for writing g,
legantly, and with propriety, that we recolledt t o
I havefeen.' "
.< tv. * O M °" th h Rt-view, July i 7 96.
j• I nia Grammar is, on many accounts
to jommendato'ry notice, its materials have been
carefully and judiciouflyfelefled 1 its arrangement
n dift.mil and well adapwd to the purpose of in, •
' StSUS'SP - '™"
- A
Engliih Exercifcs,
1 . A ') a r tcd to the Grammar lately publiihed bv
I Luidley Murray, confiding of exemplification ps
the parti of speech, inftaiicesof falfe orthography,
violations of the rule, of syntax, defed, in punc.
I tuation, and violation! of the rule, refpedtin?
I perspicuity and accuracy, designed f.r the benefit
1 ol private learner,, as weH as for theufe of fcfaool,,
I r ", W / !? ve !*" much pl'afed with the perufai
" I J n Excrc,fe '- Thty eccupy wjth di«ingui(h
ed excellence a most important place in the fciencc
of tho Engliih language; and a, such, we can
warmly recommend them to the Teachers of
Schools, as well us to all those who are defirou, of
I rrS CQrreiane^s and precihon in their native
„ , „ Monthly Revietv, Jnly 1707.
The above Books arc for sal e at Jo»Er B & l AMK ,
Crukshanks book ftor*, No. 87. Market ftnect
December f. }UwiVf '■
For Sale, by the Package,
For cash, or good notes at futy or ninetyday»,
I Vl2. '
I Book and Jaconet Muslin, pUin*) 4 '
I fti-ipe,, and Checks |
do. do. Tamboured AlTorted itt
I do. handkerchiefs, & | package,,
gentlemen', neck do. J
I Jaconet chintz muslin for home and the Weft
I India market, Pullicote and linen hindkcrchieiij
j for do. do printed do. do- common purple and
I Ghint? lhawls. r
I The above goods entitled to drawback on e*.-
I portation. Also a few scotch cambritks 4ad an
I affortraeiit of muslin by the piece.
I r Th , c . wllo ' e of the alj ove being * consignment
I from the manufacturers in Britain."
I Tq bp seen at William Blackbuiihi'«
J Office, No. 64, South Second Street.
Nov - 6 ' savytf.
This Day is Publi/hed,
BY MelT. Dohfon, Carey, Campbell, Ric and the
othej BookfelJers, -* ?
Price One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
Elegantly printed an and Not,
prejfed.
By John 'l^iortipfon,
A COMPARATIVE VI^VVOF
The Constitutions
Of States with each other, a„d »„/,
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables
the prominent feature, of eaeh Constitution, anj
clalling together their most important provision?
under the several heads of admisiftration • with'
Notes andObfervations. '
By WILLIAM SMJTH,
Of South-Carolina,
LL. D. and member of the Congref, q f t h«
United States.
Dedicated to th» People of the United States
N. B. A few Copies printed oa an jnf f rier PL
per, at 3-4th6«f a dollar. "
[PciUAIE XII,Delaware and Schuylkill Canal.
THE Stockholders are hcrely notified, that the
eleclion for Prefidcnt and Managers for the epfu
ing year, will be held ;it the. cowip u.y's cilice} on
on in January next, a' rcO'clock.A m.
WM. MOORE SMITH, Stc'ry.
N. B. IHe Stockholders t<* b« piuKlual 111 at*
U>iididg at the liouroi tcn—~osi lAtfincf* o» im or*
lance, to be difcuflvd previous to the EUfHon.
December 29. ' zt
Office of the Iniurance Company
OK THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN cotsfequence of an application from a riqn\J>er
of Proprietors of Stock, made agreeably to the
a of incorporation, a general meeting of the
Stockholder* is particularly requeued on Wednef
daf, the January next, at 11 o'clock, at the
Qilice of the Company
: " SAM. W. FISHER, Scc'ry.
December 16. dtjdJ I^'
Insurance Company
or THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA."
T'HH Stockholder* are hereby notified, that an
Ele&ior. for thirteen Directors to l'erve'for
one year, will be held at tha company's Olfice, on
Monday, the eighth day of January next, at II
o'clock.
SAM. W. FISHER, Scc'ry.
December 14 dtßthj
Insurance Company of North
America.
A Meeting of the Stockholders ii to be held, a
greeably to adjournment, at the Company's office,
on the firfl Monday in January neit, at II o'clock,
a. h, EBEN. HAZARD, Scc'ry.
December 14. ' thScaitlUJ
Insurance Company of North
America.
THE Stockholders are hereby informed, that a
stated meeting of the Company \vi!l "he held at
their office 011 the ninth <Liy of January nest (be
ing the TecondTuefday in the mont h) for the Ejec
tion of tWeaty-fivepireAoffortheenfuing year.
EB£N. HAZARD, Sec'ry.
December 14. th&mtpthf
PhiladelphiaandLancafterTurn
pike Company.
' I T HE Srnckiioldfrs arc hereby .umifiod, th.tt the
X annual Eledion for Officers far the enfuinff
ye ir,-will be held at tfee Company's Office in Phila
delphia, on thefecond Monday in January next, at
10 o'cUck, *. m. Wm. GOVETT, Sec'ry,
Decemfer 7. 2ts m'&wt7j ,
Pennsylvania Population Com
pany.
THE Shareholders are hereby notified, that an
EKJLion of Officers for the enl'uing year, will be
held at the Company's office, n0.53, north Fourth
flreet, on Wednesday, the 10th day »f January
next, at II o'clock.
By order »■ the Board,
SOL. MARACHE, Ste'ry.
December 16 eodtlothj
Schuylkill arid SufquehannaCanal.
THE Stockholders are hereby no'Jfiad, that the
cletffion for I'refidem and Managers for the enfu
ingyear, willhehefd at the eompany'toffice, on
the firfl Monday in January ,pext, at 10 o'cluck,
A. s;. Dec. 11. mw&Ctiftxn]
Bank of North America.
THE Stockholders are hifaby notified, that an
•legion for twelve Directors, for the ensuing year,
will beheld at the Bank on Monday,• the Bth of
January next, at t*n o'clock.
RICHARD WELLS, CaJhUr.
December 11. dtßthj
NOTICE.
r T" , HE Stockholders of the Bank United
X State*, tre informed thai according to the
statute -of Incorporation a general Eleflion for
twenty five Dire&ors will be held at the Bank
of the United Stater in file City of Philadelphia,
on Monday the firft day of next at ten
o'clock iu the forenoon.
And tiurfuant to the Eleventh feilion of the
Bye Laws the Stockholders of the said Bank
arc hereby notified to iflemble in general Meet
ing at the fame place 011 Tuefdny the second
day of January next at five o'clock in the E
vening.
By order of the Board of dire&or*,
G. SIMPSON, Cashier.
Second fundamental Artitle.
Not more thin three fourths of the Dlreflprt
in office, exdufjve of the President, (hall be e
ligible TAr "the next fuccceding year, but the
Diredlor who (hall be PreGdent at the time of an
Election may always be re-ele<Jltd.
Philadelphia, nov. 18. 1797- f tE
~Fox S *lb.
By JOHN MILLER, jun. fcf Co.
No. 8, Ch«(nut-ftreet,
One hundred and eighty bales ""
BENGAL GOODS,
Amongst which are,
Gurrahs Mamoodies
Baftas Sannas
Guzz. nahs » Tanda Coffaes
Guzzirs Emertics
Blue Cloths Calicoes
Palampoors Romall Handkei chiefs
Amongst them are a great proportion of the
manufactures of Patna.
December 1. §
JUST RECEIVED,
(via New-York) %
AND NOW OPENING, BY
George Dobson,
No feuth Third street,
An cSctCJifive and general aflortment of
HABERDASHERY, viz.
Bed London mixt Pins Galloons and Ferrets
Common do. do. Worded Bindings,affor-
Makenzic'sfuptr,patent ted colours
white chapel Needles Imperial, diaper, and
Nuns Thread no. 6 to Thread Tapes
40, regularly assorted White Edgings
Lisle do. no. 130 to 500, Black nd coloured Chi
regularly aflorted uefejßibbands
Coloured do. Sattio and figured do.
Black sewing Silks BlackVelvct, 1-4 to I»d
Coloured do. and Twill Velvet & pelon Sattii*
Silk and cotton Wives French CambricTt I ■
Do. d®. Ribbands Scotch do.
Shirt Moalds and Wires gilt and plated
Black brush Feathers * Buttons
And a compleat aflortment of Gaods, suitable.
to the prtfent and approaching fealbn, at reduced
prices. D«c. 6. dtf-
Lodgings Wanted,
Funiifhed or unturnifhed for a Gentleman, La
dy and servant two or three genteel Rooms aa
a Garret ; situated South of Market Street—En
quire of the Printer.
Dec. 29. *jt ■
Tin Plates,
FOR SALE BY
SIMON WALKER,
Pine, near Fifth (freer.
Decepibcr sB. s ' 1*
INTERESTING
Particulars of the lots of the Britilh frigate
La Tribune.
HALIFAX, NOV. 30.
The melancholy fate of his Majesty's (liip
La Tribune, having'for the pad' week oc
cupied the attention of every feeling mind,
we conceived it our duty to colleft 1:3 far as
poflible, ail the circumllances which attend
ed the fatal difaller \ not only for the fatis
fattion of the public in gene,'! but particu
] larly for the information of the friends
of the unfortunate fuffercri, and of
the fortunate furtivors It is a tale re
plete with woe, a»o the description given by
th'ofe who have fnrvivcd the difalter, of tl)e
horj-ors ofthe elofiug fccne, and the dismal
nigkt that followed, could we dojufticein
this rtiort narrative to their description,
would harrow up the feelings of the most
callous heart.
La Tribune was one of the fineft frigates
in his majefly's ferviee, mounted 44 guns,
and was lately captured by captain -Wil
liams in the Unicorn frigate. She was
commanded by captain S. Barker, and failed
from Torbay the 2jd Sept. as convoy to
1 the Quebec and Newfoundland fleets—ln
lat. 49, 14, long. 17, 29, flie fell in with and
. spoke his majesty's ftiip Experiment, from
( this place out 12 days. Sh« loft fight of
; all her convoy Oft. 19, in lat. 46, 16, long.
! 32, i,i. On Thursday morning Uft they
' discovered this harbour about 8 o'clock, and
the wind being E. S. E. they approached
it very faft, when Barker proposed to
the maftpr, to by the (hip too till they could
obtain a pilot ; the matter replied, "he had
beat a 44 gun ship into the harbour ; that
he had been frequently here and there was
ao occasion for a pilot as the wind was fair."
Confiding in these assurances, capt. Barker
went below, and was for some time employ
ed in arranging some papers he wilhed to
take on (hore with him. The master in the
mean time taking upon hirrt the pilotage of
the fhrp, and placing great dependence on
the judgment of a negro man by the name
of John Cafey, (who had formerly belong
ed here) whom he had placed forward to
con the ship. About 12 o'clock th: ship
had approached so near to the Thrum Cap
fhoalr, that the mafter,became alarmed, and
sent for Mr. Galvin the maftcr's mate, who
was sick below. On his coming oil deck
he heard the man in the chains sing out
" by tke wiark fire," the blackman forward
at the fame time singing out " steady."
Galvin got one of the earronades to observe
the situation of the ship, the master in much
agitation at the fame time taking the wheel
from- the man who was steering with an in
tent to vere the ship. But before this could
be effefted or Galvin give aA opinion flie
(truck. Capt. Barker instantly eame on
deck and reproached the master with hav,
ing loft the ship, feeing Galvin also on deck,
he addressed him (as he knew he
had formerly failed out of this harbour) that
he was much surprised he could stand by
and fee the lAifter run the ship on fhorc.—
Galvin informed the coptara hckvd not been
on deck long enough to give an Opinion.
Signals of distress were immediately made
and anfwercd by the military posts, and
(hips in the harbour. Boats from all the
military posts, from his majesty's (hips and
the dock-yard, proceeded to the relief of
La Tribune ; the military boats and one
of the boats from the dock-yard, with Mr.
Rackura, boatswain of the ordinary, reach
ed the (hip, but the other boats .though
making the greatest exertions, were not a
ble, the wind being so much Rgainft them,
to get on board. The ship wis immediate
ly lightened by throwing all her guns, ex
cept one retained forfignals overboard, and
every other heavy article, so that about half
past eight o'clock in the evening the (hip
began to heave, and at 9 she got off from
the shoals. She had before at about 5 or
6 o'clock loft her rudder, and on examina
tion it was fbund, that she had seven feet
water in her hold. The chain pumps were
immediately manned, and such exertions
made, that they seemed to gain on the leaks,
and by advice of Mr. Rackum, the captain
ordered to let go the best bower anchor;
this wasdone, butit did not bring herupf the
captain then ordered them to cut the ca
ble, aid the jibb and fore top naft flay fail
were hoisted to ftcer by. All this time the
violent gale which had come on from the
S. E kept incrcafing and carrying them to
the weftein shore ; in a short time thefmall
bower inchor was let go, at which time
they found themselves in about 13 fathon
water. The mizen mail was then cut away ;
it was now about 10 o'clock, the water
gaining faft on the ship, little hopes remain
ed of saving the (hip, or their lives ; at this
critical period Lt, Campbell quitted the
ship ; Lt. North was taken into the boat
out of one of the ports ; Lt. James of the
royal Nova-Scotia regiment not being to be
found, was so unfortunate as to remain, and
to the great distress of his worthy parents
and friends shared the general fate. From
the period when Lt. CSmphell quitted the,
ship, all hopes of fafety had vanquished, the
ship was finking faft, the storm was increas
ing with redoubled violence}.the rooky shore
to which they were approachingTefounding
with the tremendous noise of the billows,
which rolled towards it, presented nothing
to'thofe who expetted to survive the finking
of the ship, but the expe&ation of a more
painful death, from being dashed rigainft
those tremendous precipices which even in
the calmest day, it is almost impoflible to
ascend.
Dunlap, one of the survivors informs us,
that about lialf past ten, as nearly as he
could caiijcdture, one of the men who had
been below, came to him on the forecaftle,
and told him the ship was finking—in a few
minutes after, the ship took a lurch, fit a
boat will when nearly filled with water, and
going down ; immediately on which, Dun
lap began to ascend the fore (hrouds, and at
the fane moment, calling his eyes towards
the quarter deck, saw captain Barker stand
ingtiy the gangway and looking into the wa-|
ter, and direftiy after heard him call for the |
jolly '.rjat.—At thefame time saw the lleut.
of Marines running towards the taifrail, he
supposed te look for the jolly boat, as she
had been previously let down with four men
in her—but instantly the ship took a second
lurch, and funk to thebottoin ; after which
neither the captain or any other of the offi
cers were seen. The scene, fufficientl'y dis
tressing before, became now pecularly aw
,ful? more than 240 men, besides fevcral wo
! naen and children, were floating on the
i waves, making their last efforts to preserve
exifteuce. Dunlap whom we have before
mentioned, gained the fore top —Mr. Gal
vin the waiter's after incredible diffi
culty got into the'aula he,was below
when the fliip funk, 'directing the men at
tht chain pump, he was washed up the
hatchway, thrown into the waist, anJ from
tbencc into the water, and his ffcet as he
plunged (truck a rock—on he
swam to gain the main shrOuds, when, he
was f iddenly fei>.ed hold of by three men—
he was now afraid he was loft—to dfrengage
himfelf from them, he made a dive into the
water, which induced them to quit their
hold—or riling again lit swam to the shrouds
and arrived at the main top, and seated him
felf on an arm chelt which was lathed to the
mast. From the observations of Mr. GaJ
vin from the ipain top, and of Dunlap in
the fore top, it appears that Dear a hundred
perfotis were for a confiderablf time hanging
to the shrouds, the tops, and other parts of
the wreck ; but from she extreme length of
the night and the levcrity of the storm, na
ture became exhausted, and they kept at all
periods of the night dropping off, and dis
appearing. The cries and groans of the un
happy fufferers, from the bruises many of
them had received, 'and as their hopes of de
liverance began to fai} them, were continu
ed through the night, though as the morn
ing appeared. jrom the few that then surviv
ed, it became feeble indeed ! the whole
number fsved from the wreck amounting to
eight jpcrfons, and fevcral of them so ex
hausted as to be indifferent whether they
were taken off or not.
Mr. Galvin mentions, that about twelve
o'clock, the mainmast Jgave way, at that
time he supposes there were ou the maintop
and on the shrouds upwards of 40 persons.
By the fall of the mall the whole were again
plutrged into the water, and of that number
only nine, besides himfelf regained the top.
The top re fled upon the main yard, and
the whole refined faft to the ship by some
of the rigging!"Ofrfthe ten persons which
regained the main top four only were alive
the morning appeared; ten were at
that time alive on the fore top but three *f
them had got so exhausted, and had become
so unable to help themselves, that before a
ny relief came they were finally washed away
three others perished, and four only were fi
nally in the fore top. ' The place
where the ship went down, was only about
three times her length to the southward of
the entrance into' Herring Core. The
pie eanie down jn the night to p<?int op
posite to where the fhip'funk, and kept Urge
fires, and were To near as to converse with
the people on the wreck. The firit exerti
on which was made for their relief, was by
a boy of thirteen years old from Herring
Cove, who ventured off in a fmall.flqff by
himfelf, about 11 o'clock the next day, and
this truly deferring young lad, with great
exertions, and at extreme risk to himfelf,
ventured to approach the wreck, and back
ed in his little boat so near to the fore top
as to take off two of the men, for the boat
could not with fafety hold arvy more; and
here a trait of gelMfHCtus-toagnanimity Occurr
ed, which deserves to be noticed. Dunlap
and Munroe, had throughout this difaftrOui
night, providentially preferred their strength
and spirits beyond their unfortunate com
panions; and tbey had endeavoured to cheer
and encourage them as they found their spi
rits finking ; they were now both able to
have stepped into the boat and put air end
to their own fufferings ; but-their other two
companions though alive, Were unable to
help themselves; they lay exhausted on the -
top ; wilhed not to be disturbed, and seem
ed defiroas toperiffi'as they lay. Thofc gen
erous fellows hefitited not a moment to re
main themselves on the Wreck, and to save,
though against their will, their unfortunate
companions j they lifted them up, and by
the greatest exertions got them into tb* lit
tle fkiff, and the manly boy rowed them
triumphantly to the Cove, and i:iftantly had
them conveyed to a comfortable habitation.
After shaming by his exatnple older persons
who had larger boats, he put off again in
his fkiff, but with all his efforts, he could
not again approach the wreck. His exam
ple however, was soon followed, by the men
in the Tribune'^jolly boat, and by some of
the boats of the Cove, and by theif joint ex-,
ertions the eight men were preferred, who,
with the four that escaped in the jolly boat
make the whole number of the solitary fur
rivors of this fine ship's company. *
Some have been disposed to blame capt.
Barker, as exhibiting too much obstinacy
in not abandoning the (hip and. preferring
his crew, as a violent iiorm was evidently
approaching; but on examing men who
have survived, we find, (though other offi
cers in the fattfe situation might hare form
ed a different ju,dgwenf) that the conduit of
capt. Barker ivas throughout...the trying
scene completely cool and collefted-—though
from the ihanner in wbifh the (hip had been
run ashore, no blame could attach to him,
yet he could "ntSt reconcile it to himfelf te
lose so fine a fbip, without making every ex
ertion to save her. Having by the greatest
efforts, considerably lightened her, he had
reason to suppose (he might get pff before
high water ; she made no water while she
lay aground, there wastberefore great hopes
if she could not that Hight have been got up
the harbour, that she might with fafety been
brought to anchor and have rode out the
gale. Wheft ffcfa fuialJy got off, universal
joy jvas diffuied ttaovghout the ship ; eve
ry man thought that the objeft of their joint
efforts was attained ; but the rapid manner
in which the watef poured into her, soon
damped'their joy, and plunged them fnto
despair. Had the ship been finally favrd by
the great exertions which were made to ef
fect it, every man would have praised capt.
Barker; and notwhhftanding those exerti
ons failed, we think we may justly fay in the
language of Mr. Add'fcm
" ' 1 is not in mortal' to command fuccef»,
" Barker did cnore ; hedlddeferve it." * j
To his memory therefore, and that of his
brave fellow fafferers, the commiseration of
their countrymen is justly due—From eve
ry generous heart they will receive that corfl
miferation ; and while the mind runs over
the whole tryingfcene, the tears which must
involuntarily flow will embalm their memo
ry.' -. • i; " iy f ,. |
Having closed the general scene, we 'think
it will not be unacceptable to wr readers,
if we uotice the conduct of some individuals
—A Quarter Mailer belonging to the ship,
by the name of M'Gregor, had his wife on
beard ; they were a reipe&able couple, and
greatly attached to each other—M'Gregor,
from his affectionate solicitation for herfafc
ty, endeavored to persuade her, while the
fliip lay on the (hoals, to go afliore in one
of the boats which came off from the Ul
and, as his mind would be more ateafe, could
he put her iu a place of fafety ; to his so
licitations (he replied, " that file uever
would abandon him ; if it was his lot to pe
rish, (he wished not to furvjve him." Find
ing it in vain to urge her further, he d«2ll
ed from the attempt, and she afterwards
shared the common fate. A conliderablc
time after the ship had foundered, a man was
discovered swimming towards the wreck.
On hii approaching near, it was found'to be
M'Gregor, he informed his comrades who
were hanging by the wreck, that he had
swam towards the (hore, that he had ventu
red as far as he could with fafety into the
furf, and found if he went further, he should
be dashed to pieces, and he cautioned them
all to avoid making the like attempt, but
if possible to hold by the wreck. He him
felf gained the main shrouds, and remained
there till the mast gave way, and then met
the, feme fate as his unfortunate consort,
wkofe death he was continually deploring
while on the shrouds.
Dunlap relates another instance which oc
curred, wh(fh though it may appear ludi
crous, after the distressing scenes we have
noticed, is too descriptive of that cool
thoHghtlcffuefs of danger that so often dis
tinguishes our Brilifh tars, that it would be
inexcufeable to omit it. Daniel Munro,
•toe of the survivors, had, as well as Dun
lap, got into tb» for*top ; after a-while he
difappeartd, and it was concluded, he had
been washed away wii;h many others ; after
an absence from the top about two hours,
he suddenly popped his head up the lubber
hole to the surprize of Dunlap, who enquir
ed where he had been ; he said he had been
cruising for a better birth ; and it appeared
that after swimming about the wreck for a
considerable time he had Atsroed to the
fore fhr«n»J# r c«vrkd in on the cat-har
pins, and had actually been asleep there
more than an hour, and he said he wast and
really appeared to be greatly refrefhed,
Mr. Brcnian of the dock-yard, who had
gone on board with Mr. Rackum, after the
finking of the ship, had got on the main
top, and remained there till the main-mast
gave way, and was never after seen.
While noticeing the immediate disasters
of the ship, we forbare to mention the fate
of one of the boats which had gone from
George's Island. About nine o'clock as
the Slip went off, the boat got under the
ship's bow and was upset, by this circum
stance a part of the men, confiding of 2 fer
jeants, and 4 privates of the Royal Nova
fcotia. regiment were unfortunately drown
ed ; the remainder were taken up by the
boat belonging to the Eastern battery.
Too much praise cannot be given to the
men who manned these boats, and
larly toferjeant Baker, and the boat's crew
who persevered in following the ship, and
finally brought off lieutenants Campbell and
North of the royal Fusiliers. Great praise
is alfe due to the dock-yard bpat, which
carried Mr. Rackum en board, they follow
ed the ship .at a short distance, till she foun
dered, and with extreme difficulty at length
reached Herring Cove. We are sorry to
learn, that Mr. Rackum, ivh©f£ exertions
on board La Tribune, to preserve the ship,
were gratefully acknowledged, perished
with the unhappy ship's company.
Having mentioned all the difafterou3
circumstances which have attended this
distressing scene, it is with pleasure we now
notice the attention which has been paid to
the widows and children of the unfortunate
fuffeters. His royal highness prince Ed
ward, with' that uniform generality which
has distinguished his royal highness during
his reiidence in this province, dire&ed im
mediate provision to be made for the be
reaved families, and there is reason to hope
through his royal highness' representations,
that provision will be made as permanent as
their fufFerings. Adtions like these digni
fy even kings, and add splendor to the
highest rank.
Besides the attention shewn by his royal
highness, a liberal fubferiptjon has been
made by the garrison, for the widows of the
soldiers, who were drowned, afid..fn> the
•men who manned the boats.
There is another inflanee of gefltrefity
which the occasion seems Hi require, and it
seems to be the earnell wish of the men wjio
were saved from the wreck ; it is that some
reward may be beftowrd on the boy.who
firit came off to them. They attribute in
a great meafnre their deliverance to him,
and they mention with the warmed .grati
tude, not only his exertions to save them
from the wreck, but his kind and hospita
ble attentioa to relieve them after they had
reached the cove. Surely if a fubferiptioa
was set on foot, there is not a man in the
country who would not give something to
reward and encourage so young an inftaftce
of hunrant and heroic magnanimity.
Mr. Club, the matter of La .Tiilvj -li,
wasmafterof the A&ive frigate when (lie
was ruu aOtore on ih« Illand'uf Anticofti.
Mr. Fennel, the firii lieutenant, and Mr.
Galvin, the mailer's mate were both for
merly prisoners at Guadaloupe, with col.
Wethfrall, and vvere all for r confidcrable
time chained by their legs together. Lieut.
Fennel declared to lieut, Campbell, that his
only motive in coming out in la Tribune,
was to have the plaafure of feeing col. We*
therall ; and such appears to hive been the
attachment of Galvin to lieut. Fenneh that
though he with becoming feeling of
the fa;e of the (hip's company, the loss of
lieut. Fennel feemi peculiarly to affedl him.
On enquiring of him if lie saw lieut. Fen
nel after the (hip funk, he replied " tie did'
not, for if he had, though he was himfelf
io a place of apparent security, he would
have again risked his life to p.|ferve him,'
and would have effe&ed it or perished with
him. A similar attachment te» each other
appears among the men who have survived
the wreck, and these circumftauc.es unite tdt
prove that the virtues which render hurnaiV
beings the mod pleasing, are those they ar/t
taught.in the trying fchoa! of adversity.
Lift of officers loft in la Tribune capt.
Scory Barker ; firil lieut. Thomas Fennel;*
second do. TjiomasClarke ; third do, Tho
mas Sharpe ; master James Club ; Surge
on, , Jonei ; Purser , Stan
ford ; lieut. Marines, James Craig ; Mr*
Stag, matters mate ; John Darrington,
midshipman ; Charlei Ritchie, do ; John
Cloudily, do ; William Harley, captain's
clerk ; boatswain, John Franklin ; carpen
ter James Jurd ; Gunners, William Tho
mas, William' Crafton.
Lift of officers and men saved from 1?
Tribune—John Galvin matter's mate ; Sea
men, Abraham Wanbill ; James Craw
ford j Robert Park«r, Daniel Monroe ;
E. Knowles; Richard Beit, fam'ei Green $
Henry HufTey ; Ch-,"3. Dowling, Robert
Durilip, and John White.
ALEXANDRIA, December 19
FRENCH SPOLIATIONS.
To the Editor of the Columbian Mirrsr
Six,
IN a former paper I communicated fa you
a lijl of tie number as vcjfcls and cargoesfeiied
by French eruifers and condemned in their ports
with the value of the fame. On a more accu
rate invefligation, I find / mat deficient in tht
number ; and I am warranted in asserting,
that the value, in/lend of three, is little short of
four hundred thousand dollars—to corYeS this
however, is not my motive for troubling you at
present.
It is, fir to fuggefl to my fellow fuffsrer *.
through the medium of your paper, the proprie
ty of calling a general meeting < its objeS tote,
the appointment of a committee to tolled and arm
range all the documents relative to these losses ;
far certainly it will be much better effeQed
collectively, than individually ; this committee
may be ordered to procure at the general ex
pence further proof, where such may appear
waiting, and moreover be injlrußed to prepare
a memorial to Cungrcfs grounded on the etfi
derue before them-, and to correspond with the
Secretary of State, as circumflances may re
quire.
It is well known, and a faS not to be
controverted, that the mercantile tody of the
Union have -been and now are, the jirme/lfup
portersof the laws and government of the United
States ; that they ha ve been the immediate fourct
from whence has been drawn the revenue
that ought " to provide for the common de
fence, and promote the general welfare." 'lf
any man denies or even doubts this, lei him look
to tht reports of the Secretary of the Treasury
on the i*ecefpts and expenditures of the United
States, or let me ask him from whence was the
' i reafury supplied, which paid for a tedious and
txpenfive Indian war, orfuppreffed a flill mare
dangerous infurreSion,* which threatened the
very exigence as the government ? Was it not
from commerce ? If these fcSs then bespeak its
importance to the general welfare, and this use•
ful class of citizens have been prohibited by
law from the natural right of felf defence
:n protecting their property from lawless vio
lence and in confiquence thereof have fujftred by
the ruthless hands of'the French plunderers, on
what principle can the general government deny
their claim to competition. Will it not [be
mare honorable to fuppafe, that found policy as
well as the immutable principle of yufiice, will
didate the expediency as a well timed retribution
tothefyfferers f Under this tmprejjion, Iflrong
ly recommend a general meeting as a prepar
c.tary jfep,for whatever may happen connected
with this business.
I am, Sir,
Tour mofl obdt, Servant.
A SUFFERER
By French Spoliations,
* InfurreSion in Perivfjlvania, 94
WASHINGTON LOTTERT, No. 11. ■
List of Prizes anb Blanks.
137 th day'* Drawing—Oifl. 23.
No. Dolj. No. Dots. No* Dols. No. Oils.
793 13457 x *3BBI .3*205
o a 4 754 x 358 K
173* X I4fic9 S<6rf4 4-i
3S3l' ijoi> 434 x 452
898 *9O x 6J9 * 5iS
4571 6oz 39 P,?7 v
667 6JJ ,4'o
6046 16044 x .531 40sto x
8671) 362 x 731 sif9 x
608 492 90S x 863
774 17185 20 aß»i6 9:4
'865 ' 915 X 077 41633
9391 18749 » «9 ; 45
363 x 696 x 136 x
970 357 30286 44632
1033! 801 x 374 7",6 x
3';9 20289 x 45082 X
11.4*9 i7*> 3*49' *
'7 g 4 .?!.? 589 .59°
12119 X 2IIOJ 53721 *B3
646 3cß 34844 416719 *
768 s.<i .V 545.; x 481*7 x
j 779 * 5°7 36608 954 X
'£37o 040 40S * 49346
436 x 23547 ifji§ x Is* x******" 'l mvwmmmm —©n<
C* 0 ']? 'G S S. j w S
-- MT _ anc
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, i gj;
• ' twi
FRIDAY DECEMBER 29. (<j
Mr. J. Parker aiked and obtained leave wfl
of abfeix e for Mr. S. Smith for ten day*.
Oh the Speaker s informing the house, £■ '
that the unfinished bufinefa of yesterday, orc
related to the remanftrance: of the Legifla- j.
ture of the state of TenneftCe, had the pri- •
ority of other business,
i Mr. Coit said, as the information called
fur from the Secretary of War, was not
yet received, he hoped tbit bufmefs would pj.
be postponed till Tuesday next—Agreed.
On motion of Mr. D. Foster, the house
resolved itfelf into a committee of the whole
on the report of the committee of claims on
the petition of Comfort Sands, and others ( - Q|
—M r - Kittera in the chair ; and all the pa-
pers restive to the fubjeft having been read
by the the following resolution re
ported by the committee of claims was a-
Mtedxo, without debate, viz- Ep
of the Trvafury be, and they are hereby em
authorized -id empowered, upon applica
► aionof die parties, to examine and decide rej
upon the validity of a certain award or re
port made by Isaac Roosevelt, William
Malcolm, Elbridgc Gerry, and Henry . g (
RemfeM (four of the referees nominated
for the purpose) between the United State*
and Comfort Sands and others, his co-part- an
uers (contraftor3 for furnifhing supplies to
the troops during the late war) and that in
malting their decision upon the said award
or report, the said officers of the Treasury '
fjiall be governed. by principles similar to £
those which would prevail in a eontroverfy j. (
> concerning it at law ; and if the opini-
* y* of the accounting officers aforefaid, the
said award or report ought to be binding
and obligatory against the United States, .
then, and in such cafe, but not otherwise, j
the said Comfort Sands an|d others, his said
co-partners, (hall be entitled to have the
said claim against the United States, as on
the said award allowed and fettled at the
Treasury, in the usual manner, and (hall be j
paid the amount of the claim, so to be al-
lowed, out of any monies which may be |
in the Treasury not otherwif* appropri- ,
ated."
The committee rose, reported the reso
lution, and the house took it up ; when j
Mr. Nicholas objeftedto agreeing to the !
report, and Mr. Gallatin moved that the p
subject be re-committedfor a report of faftt
on the fubjeft. I e ,
The state of thi» long contested question
Appears to be as follows :
TW petitioners fame time in the year
1782 contrasted with the Superintendent of
the finances, for the supply of rations far
the use of the garrison of Weft Point and j
its dependencies, and also for the use of the v
main army ; that before the expiration of
the tern of their contrast, it was
proper or necessary, by the said fuperinten
dant, that the bufinef* of supply Ihould be., c
withdrawn from tktn, and placed in other
hands ; a claim to be indemnified for daraa
ges and losses, alledged tftKave been fuf- {
tained, was made on the part of the con- (
"(raftors ; in consequence of which feveial {
resolution* were passed by Congress, that
1 four of the referees appointed hy, and in
pursuance of the said jefolutions, in the
year 1787, made an award or report, ex 1
pre (five of their decision or opinion, that ; {
the United States ought to pay to the said j (
contraftors, the sum of 40,297 dollars and |
4-90ths parts ef a dollar ; that the award or
report was, by Congress, referred for exa- j j
mi nation to a committee, whp reported in , (
favor of its being confirmed, but that report (
was afterwards committed to another com
mittee, who never, as far as can be traced, ' |
made any report ; neither has there be*n a
ny decision of Congress oh the fubjeft— (
that the reasons whioh induced the reference
to a second committee do not appear ; that
application having beer made to the ac
counting officers of the Treasury, tor a de
termination on the said award, it has been
concluded that they were not competent to
the fame, without the special authority of
thelegiflature. -
The principal arguments used by Messrs.
Gallatin and Nicholas were, that this claim
was altogether novel, being grounded up
on damagtt sustained, and not upon adual
fuppliet fum'tfhtd ; that no allowance ef this
kind had ever been made that if
once there were to be eftabliflied a principle,
that wherever damages had been sustained in
jnoney tranfaftipns with government, recom
pence (hould be made, they would open a
wide door for business, as there was scarcely
any person who had dealings with govern
ment during the war> that would not be a
ble to make a claim of this kind, from the
then emharraffitd state of the treasury ; that
the claim being of a novel kind, its merits
ought to be -well examined, before it was
allowed ; that there was nothing in the claim
which would render it admiffiblc, were it
not for the repott or award j that this a
ward, in their opinion, was intended as no
thing more than an enquiry as to facts,
which was to be laid befxf congress, and
decided upon by them ; that therefore the
report before them was improper, as it re
ferred business to the accounting officers of
the treasury, to which they were incompe
tent, and which ought to be fettled in that
house ; that this was very different from a
wards made betwixt individuals, where both
parties pledged themfel'es to abide the con
fequenccs ; nor was there an instance to be
produced ia whichconjrefs had thusl author
ized an award ; that though on« of the re
foluiions entered into by them, authorized
the referrees " to decide certain controver
fie* between the United States and the con
traflors, yet it concluded with " and report
their tpinien thereupon that the condufl
of cengrefs itfelf (hewed that this reference
was not meant as a final award j t at if jt
bad, instead of refering the report hrft- to
•
one committee and .to Another, they ' *
; would have *t orr^-ap^r'.ipriated the money I
• and not committed it lovfuribtr enquiry ;
.but, allowing that the award could be con
| fidcrcd -in the fame light as an a .ard be-1
twixt individuals, ftiU it would be proper I Si
ta examine the ground upon which the a-
ward was founded.
Messrs. J. Parker and Findley, were jp J de
favor of the motion for a re-committal, i(i I ret
order that thelioufe might be in full poflef- I dil
(ion of faGs in a business which had been a- I on
gitated ever since they were in congress, and tei
which had alway* been considered -as a very Cc
doubtful cafe. n ri
The report was supported by Meffirs. ou
Harper, Sprague, Brookes, Coit, J. Wil- M
liams, Bayard, Livingfton, Goodrich, O- th
tis and Gordon, these grounds, viz. Fc
That;the course pursued in this cafe was th
similar to that which is usual in the fubmif- hii
fion of sontroverfies between individuals, to co
arbitration ; that tlfcre was a mutual elec- mi
tion and consent in the appointment of the I m;
person* who were to make the investigation ; j
that they werecxprefsly deaominatedmrEß- j
ees;thattheya£tedi<n</<;r j e(
reprefenting the government, was j S'
empowered to employ counsel, if necessary I 10
that the referrtj are authorised, by . the firft J
resolution, to determine what damages, if a- I
ny, were sustained hy the qontra&ors, and I
1 by the last resolution, their duty or business |
is designated to be to " dec>de certaiu contro- 1 rc
vetjies," between the Unjted Slates and j °'
1 the contra&ors j tha these chara&eriftics, j
and the general spirit of the tranfaftion, j
appear to denote, that the report of the re- j
' ferees in the cafe, ought to be considered as I fe
equivalent to an award between individuals I w
possessing the fame validity, and equally o- | 1
* pen to exceptions ; that, as to the provi- I "
r fion made by the several resolutions, that j V
the referees /hould report their opinion to
Congress : this, it is conceived, could only I b<
have been intended to reserve to Congref* a 1 nt
' right of reviewing the award oh the fame f'
j principle*, bonajiae, as would prevail in a |
court of justice; the observation* of t :
e gentlemen opposed to this claim, were such C (
as might have been properly urged when the | U
question far appointing arbitrators was be
e fore the old Congress, but that they were {
very ill-timed how ; and that the argument
of the cafe having been a very long time be- p
fore Congress, was a strong reason for a- I w
grieing to the report, that justice might at K
" | length be done to the claimants.
I The question for re-committing the re-1 t i
port was put and negatived 48 to 29. tl
The Report was then agreed to, without
a division, and the Committee of Claims P
ordered to bring in a bill accordingly.
' n j Mr. D. Foster moved, that when the n
house adjourn, it adjourn to Monday.
Mr. Harper proposed Tuesday.
5 The question on the most distant day,
was taken and negatived 41 to 31 and then 1 s
the firft motion was agreed to without a di- t
le ~ b 1
virion. t
j Mr. Livingfton, from the committee of 1 0
commerce and manufa&ures, wi(hed that I
committe to be discharged from the farther I J
>e "' CtmfideraHon of the petition of Geo. Gnr-1
C 1 wan Ward, that it might be referred to the I <
committee of ways and meant, who had '
the law refpefting the duty payable on dif- I '
j tilled spirits (to which it referred) under I .
their consideration. Agreed and the pro- j ,
posed reference made. I 1
l ie The fame gentleman, alXo made another I 1
report on the petitions ofO. Cooke, Abiel 1 j
at Wood, and Robert Hooker, which Was I ,
to the fame effsft as the former report. — I
i)( j j Committed for Wednesday next.
1 Mr. Otis prcfented a petition from Ste
'phen Dickinfon & Co. merchants, on be- j
. I half of Alexander. St. John, praying redress
; on aacount of penaltie* inenrred in confe- I
quence offome informality as to the register I
of a vessel. Referred to the committee of j
' i commerce «nd and manufaftures.
a Mr. J. Williams said that at the time the I
office of the Commissioner of the Revenue I
iat was appointed, he doubted not it might be I
» necessary; but, at present, he thought the I
business of that office might be very well]
done "ithe treasury department, and, if it I
' t() could, it would occasion a considerable fav- I
■of ,n t ' le el P encc * government, as he I
found his salary was 2,400 dollar*; that I
,y £ 2,700 dollars hat been allowed for clerks,
250 dollars for meffengtr, &c. 400 dollars I
for stationary, besides office rent, See. mak
ual ' n £ in tl'e whole upwards ef 6,000 dollars. I
i- He, therefore, proposed a resolution to the I
1 following effect:
' | " Resolved, That the committee of revi
j sal and unfirii(hed business, be to j
enquire and report, whether any, and if j
any, what alterations are necessary iu the
I aft making alterations in tne Treasury & 1
r War Departments, so far as refpefts the
office of Commissioner of the Revenue,
' and report their opinion as to the .expedi
hat cnc y> or ' n expediency of abolishing
the office of Commissioner of the Reven
:rits
was vie *
Ordered to lie on the table.
The bill for the reliefof North and Vefey,
of Charleston, was received front the Senate
with amendments, which were read and re
ferred the committee of commerce and
manufaftures.
the r ' Ba y ard movec ' letter of the
Judges, sent to the house by the President
of the United States, requesting an altera
tion in the time of ho'ding the circuit courts
in the state of Delaware, be referred to a
) feleft committee; which being agreed to, |
>oth He presented remonstrances from the
Chancellor and sundry citizens of the state
of Delaware, against the above suggested
j ior alteration, which were referred to the fame
committee.
j re
ized Adjourned till Monday.
.ver; LE F T
port At Alderman Bedfoid's office, Lombardftrset,
d o No. 82, about three wec ; :S ago, a whole piece
of cotton,.fuppotjsd to tie stolen —any person
f nce havine loft the /ame, proyinp property am! pay.*
'f i' ing charges may have it agsin.
Ito Ptccniber>6. *eojt.
Dtceniber j6.
do
PHIL A DELPHI A, To
SATURDAY F.VEN'ING, DECEMBER
This morning arrived in town from Havre I
de-Grace, via New-York, Mr. Divid Me
redith, merchant of this city. M». Mere- Fi
dith failed from Havre the 24th Oflober,
on which day he informs, that he saw a let
ter from the Chancellor of the American
Confnlate at Paris, to a gentleman at Ha
nre, which stated, that twelve clays previ- e d
ou9 to the date of that letter, the American
Ministers Plenipotentiary, had delivered
their credentials to M. Talleyrand Perigord,
Foreign Mmifter, ai;J at that period
they had received no comrriunication from no
him, either perfoual «r official, and that in g c
consequence they found themfaltes in the
most awkward unpleafant situation i- m '
magiaable.
A
A few nightsfince, a gentleman wasftopp- so
ed under the wall of Arch-street burying th
grour.d. The highwayman presented a pis- re
tol to histreaft, demanded his calh, obtain- 01
ed it, and went off. P*
Yellerday a discovery was made of several ex
of theperfohs concerned in committing the of
robberies on the roads near this city ; —two of)
of them are young men from New-Jersey. "•
For the Gazette of the United States. ifi
MR. PENNO, B
BY tr.e milk and witer o v ftrvatlons if tlie cor- efl
rffpeni'ent of a Senator of tlie United Statu, g]j
which appeared to your paper of Tuefdav evening,
1 take thi auth r of tii«m to be the fame puny
" Friend.to Law» and FKedorn'.' that appjpred in
your paper 0/ tht 14th an*! 19th inft.
Had the vanity rf th? writer (who for brevity's ns
fake 1 stall call th# frimij sot carried him beyond ,j, (
being mwtly a fc«bW-r ft>r » newfpapor, I think
neither he nor the publ».',» ouUV,eyi;r hi ard >
from me again—But when ("hear so triflinp a
thinjr tacking itfelf to Senate of nry country [
in to give itfelf importance, I feel my 11a- pi
tional prtde in a dcjrree rr.f'ulted—!n honor ts my () j
country 1 cannot believe thers is a Senator of the
United States, who would willingly receive, aad
thereby becouie (lie patron, of a firiei ol letters,
defined (or publication, f# unimportant as tlie w
simple we have ha L ai
What does all the writer's declamation ia your m
paper of Tuesday evening amount to ? Why, that ,
war i>an undefirabl* alternative; it generally the
gneateft of evili; and therefore aught to be avo'.d- "
ed i/ poflible. There is not a blockhead who struts tl
the flrecu but wftat knew this before—and yet th
the wife " friend" is obtruding this at advice on u|
the Senate. .
If his objeA was, at he Attempted some time
paQ, to ihew that it was impolitic to permit out 6
merchants to arm, he might as pertinently have jr
recited one of Hervey't evening meditations a- w
mong the tombs. | r
It w an important question, whether by permit
tiHg our merchauta to defend their property on the
high fei» against unlawful aggression, Congress
will put at hazard the puce of the country—This f<
all-important question 1 (hall leave to wiser heads c
than mine to determine. Sure 1 am, that nothing j (
thu " friend" hat yet ftid, has thrown any light .
on the fubjeiS. , s ■ '
One word upon the remarks the " friuid" was O
pleased to make in your paper of the 19th upon
my previous observations on hit reasoning.
He' supposed I would " lay a wager to convince
Congress that I alone e»uld think or argue"—l
did not write, as he profeffed to, for the purpose
of influencing Congress—l liad not the vanity to '
think my writings would have that tendency— 1
My only objedl was to espofe to merchants (the 1
well informed of whom however did not need the v
erpofnre) the absurdity of his opinions—And yet (
I will confcfs, that "although 1 never Uy a wjger,
it might have been at pertinent on that occafiou at '
the argumcnu (if 1 may so call them) of the '
" friend." NotwithftaudiHg thit observation, I 1
profefo with him, to treat with Jut refpcS, the .
sentiments of those who differ with me
If I could poflibly be induced on any fubjedt to
lay a wager with of winning, it
wouldhe that a greiit majority 6f your readers be- I
gin by this time to be powe- fully imprelled with a
bditf that the "fiiend" It in fomc way or other
r concerned in priv^eers—lf I mistake in thit, it is
p besaufe his writings have not m»de the fame im
prefliont on others they have on me.
Before I part with the " friend" I will take the
' liberty to give him one piece of advice. It is, out
c of regard to the honor of hit country, either to
r difcontinuc his correspondence with Hie Senator,
. or to suppress the publication of it.
AN ENEMY TO NONiENSg.
t P. S. Since writing the foregoing I havefeen
the " friencTs" leucr 11. in your paper of lad e
veaing—l am not led to alter my opinion of him-
E I have however learnt tWo things from it—One is,
t that hje has travelled—Tke other, that he pufleff't
the art of bombast in the highest degree ; for
s Which Ido not think General Waftington will
thank him—lt will require more notes than hit (4)
" and (7) to make him uuderlloood. Do, Mr
!• Fenno, if he is not above communicating direftly
e with you, aflc hhn What he means by " the un
(haken loftincfs (I leave out his parentheGs, at it
did not explain his meaning, xnd fill up the gap
with my own) whenall tic paflions, a warring
n world, a popular and favorite fubjeft invited or
f feemgd to offer redress, or at lead revenge !"
e AN ENEMY TO NONSENSE.
December 29.
e it tw
MR. FtNNO,
I am really imprefled with 1 lively concern,
at the readtnefs with wliich the StateLegiflature
S areabout to yield to the folicitatiosa of the Bank
1- of Pennsylvania, for vesting their Cashier with
powers ofa Notary Public —Do the Legislature
consider how inconliftent those twoappointme«tt
are--Do they corifyief how essentially this will
''' ehange the principles of a legal controverly
Ce which an individual may hive with that inftitu
-2" tion, by authorising odc party to giv« evidence
id in his own cause : tor it is a fair and juflifiable
couclnfrtiij that under the influence of I* efprif
, e du corpsthe luUitution as well as (e'lf-julti
nt flcation, that as individual cannot rely on the in
dependent teftimopy of any Ca(hief is he cow
a ~ can on'that of an indifferent plrfo'n eftabli&cd
18 as a Notaty for th« public the
* members 0} the Legiflaturc, on refltdlion, will
not, without forre prsffing aeceffity, (and nose
be appears") introduce an innovation fa uan|;rrout
te to the rights of the citizens, and so very unusual
j in th« pra<Sliceof jurilprutJtnca.
CD.
ne
MR. finno,
_ I requett you to re-publilh Mr. Jefferfon'i
letter to Mazzei which I remember to have
,seen last May in your Gazette. The iftolt
et ' effeftual method of puniftu'ng the writer sf
ce this superlative libel all the able and vir
tuous citizens of our coontry who do not
embrace his variable and visionary politics,
is to exhibit freoue»tlv this letter totbe pub
' 4*.
lie view through the medium ®f the press, c.l
submitting it without a commtrit to'the can- vc
dour, liberality and good ftnfe of the com
munity : a tribunal awful to vain projectors
not less than to wicked calumniator., ao
I ( . CO
' re
FLORENCE, Jsnusry t, 1797. G
LETTER hi
From Mr. Jefurfon, late minister of the U
nited States in France, and-fecretary to po
the department of foreign affairs, to a ci
tizen of Virginia.
This letter, literdlly translated, is addrciT
ed to M. Mazzei, author wf Rsfcarches, fw
hillorical an(i political,', upon r- the, United n c
States of America, now resident in Tufcany. fjp
" Otir political fituatien is prodigiously ft a
changed fincc yon left us. Instead of that w(
noble love of liberty, and tPiat republican ta
government, which carried us triumphantly a t
through the dangers of th' war, an angle— rc
I monarchico—arillocratic party has arifcti. E d
Their avowed obje£t is to impose on us'the foi
fybflanie, as they have already given us the eo
form, of the British government. Never
theless the principal body of our citizens ye
remain faithful to republican principles. All pi;
our proprietors>>f lands are friendly ta those un
prinaiples, as also the tnafs ps men of tal- an
cats. We have against us (republicans) the oc
executive power, the judiciary power, (two Fi
of three branches of our government) all the
officers of government, all who are feeling offi
ces, all timid men who prefer the calm of defpo- bl
tifm to the tcmpcflususfea of liberty, the Brit- dc
ijh merchants and the Americans who trade on ye
British capitals, the fpicj.ators, per funs inter- q{
ejled in the lank and the public funas. [Eft- a
•blilfflfffcnts invented with views of corrup- f 0
tion, and to afiimilate us t* the British mo- C e
del in its corrupt parts.}.
" I (hould give you a fever, if i {hould fj,
name the apostates who have embraced these /p
heresies ; meh who were Solomons in coun- d<
fcil, and Sampsons in combat, but whofc hair C r
has been cut off by the whow of England. f 0
[ln the original, parlacatin d'Angleterre,- re
probably alluding to the woman's cutting jg
off the hair of ijampfon, and his loss of a
strength thereby.] tr
" They would wrest from 11s that liberty
which we have obtained by so much labor p
and peril ; but we shall preserve it. Our 1 0
mass of weight and riches is so powerful, tJ
that we have nothing to fear from any at- tl
tempt against ns by force. I)? is fufficient f e
that we guard ourselves, and that we breai
the Lilliputian ties by which they have bound p.
us, in the firft (lumber! which succeeded our t j
labors. It fuffices that we arrest the pro- j r
grefs of that system of ingratitude and in- e;
justice toward* France, fronj which they ft
would alienate us, to bring us under Eritifti tl
influence, See." tl
[The foregoing letter wears all the ex- \ 2
ternal mark* of authenticity. And yet it n
seems hardly poflible an American could be
capable of writing such a letter. As the
letter is cireulating in Europe, we deem it
just, if a forgery, to give Mr. Jefferfon an y
opportunity to disavow it.] fc
1 b
The city of London have voted thanks c
to admiral Duncan, and all the officers and
men composing his fleet, for their conduft
in the aftion with" she Dutch ; and have"pre
sented Admiral Duncan with a sword, va- /
lued at 200 guineas, and Admiral Ouflow I
with a sword valued at 100 guineas. Also ,
direfted to be paid to a fubfeription /
opened for the widows aud orphans of sea- t
men who fell in the conflict. 2900 guineas i
were fubferibed by individuals for the fame
purpose.
The Cork Gazette has ceased to be ptib
lifhed. Some prosecutions instituted against
the editor were withirawnon that condition.
1
J
By this day's Mail.
NEIV-TORl<~Decemher 29.
Extraft of a letter from Mr. James Van
' zandt, Supercargo of tbebrig Eliza, capt.
Bowne, to his friend in this city, dated
St. Bartholemews, Dee. 1.
, " Nov. 13, in lat. 25, 42, N. long. 66,
- W. was captured by the fchr, Le Sanfpa
riel captain Pillet Solier, of Gaudaloupc,
cwner. They gave 11s a (hot and when with
r in hail, after enquiring from whence we
I came and where bound to, ordered capt.
) . Bowne on board with his papers, or they
would Jink us to Hell &ce The capt. obey
s ed, and was aflced in a harsh manner for his
t papers ; as soon as they had examined them
p decided that our vessel was a good prize.—
g Then sent the brig's boat full of men on
r board, ransacked the vessel, pilfered from
me all my (lores, &c. left us deliitute of al
most every necessary, took from us eur cook
(a black boy) abusing him in a most (hock
ing manner, frnt a prize raafter and 7 men
i> on board, took out ourfirft and second mates
e with two men, detained us till the 14th inft.
f and then ordered us for at the
fametime forwarding onjy partof my papers.
ts It is impossible to state to you at this time,
II accurately and particularly the vile abuse
j and ill usage we have received from them."
u-
■ c The projeft of Boulay for. banishing all
c the nobles from France was found to be so
unpopular, that the commifiion withdrew it
n . arid substituted a modification by which the
w nobles are ouly dijfranchifed, and previous >
:d to exercising the lights of citizens, are o
1C bliged ta go through the forms prefcribrd
for foreigners. The difcuflion of this qutf
tion called up violent passions in the coun
cil—the members ruflied to the tribune—
bawling and (Inking with their canes, with :
1. all the intemperance which diftinguidred the
debates in Danton's time.
t'» The army of observation in Weftplialia is
ve tobe confidcrably'augmented. A " ew Con
3ft grefs is to be formed at Hildefheim to rega
of late the provisioning and pay of the troeps.
ir- It appears that the king of Prussia is alarm
lot ed or pretpnds to be alarmed at the eftablilh
:s, ment of a republic oa the left of the Rhine,
ib- and the manifeftpes of the French diftfibut
• V"
tjii fight, to rouse the people to teii> '
rcr their rights. .
Gen. -IXutertre had been caller! id
aount : fw the mpney he bad received to ili
cort the deputies to Rochefort. fie wss #;«
refied ! , but escaped towards the army rf
Germany.'' The DireQory hw ovdet'ttf
htm to he seized. • t
Dumoufier continues sorefide in Hdftsifl '
not far from Hamhurgh.
<1 . : !
LONDON, Oftpber 18.
Lad nigVlt ,a Dutch Sailor, armed with $
sword, planted himfelf on the road fi<J?
near Pcptford where he attacked every pafa
fengei with the molt bNital ferocity. H?
stabbed a young woman in the bread, and
wounded several Gentlemen, but none mofi
tajly. After a desperate refiftancc he wai
at la(jt orerpowered by numbers, coa»
vcyed to thi; yvatch-houfe, where he declar
ed it was his intention to destroy every pei>
son he met, in revenge for the defeat of his 5
countrymen..
Admiral de Winter is between 35 and 40
years of age. He is a tall, handsome man,
plain in his manners, and joins to the
undaunted courage, an uncommon ardar
and aftivity, as be has evinced on various
occasions. He is a Major Gen«ral in the
French service,
OAoher 20.
The Stadtholder has now a very formids?
ble navy in the British ports ; it ie a very
point howevnr, whether in the t>
vent of his restoration h? would carry many
of them back with him. There would be
a gpod many charges for keeping and repair,
for the payment of which he would be for,
ced to leave them inpaivn.
The Pope, it is laid has been again csn
fpiring against the French republic. This
infallible head of the C.hurch is now in his
dotage, but it *ertamly is 'extremely indif
ereet in his friends not to give him# chanco
for dying at home in peace. They should
recoiled*,, that though young Princes and
Bijhops may do well to roam about Europe,
a man of 80 is rather too fold tQ begin hit
travels.
It argues a great deal of simplicity in thq
French commissioners at Lisle to wait any
longer for lord Malmelbury. If the dura,
tion of their appointments depends upon
this event, they may reckon upon having
secured very comfortable ftnecures for life.
It is a miserable proof of the happiness and
pjtfper'tty of a coftntry, when a lik?
that ps Lord Duncan's is attended with ng
imperceptible rife of the funds, no lively
expectation of peace, and when even ths
fnpporters. of ministry in the city checked
their transports by recolle&idg that whas
they with for, and dare not ask, may bs d«,
layed by one of othcr<wife the mod fortu,
nate events inth? history of the British navy,
* . YARMOUTH, Oft. 17.
The Dutch Admiral de Winter behaved
v«ry gallantly ; he fought until one fide had
but fix guns that he could fire ; his captain
had both his thighs (hot [off, and died Oft
Sunday morning. ,
PARIS, Oltoler 12.
A Cenfpiracy has been difcovfred at
the objeß of <wbicb was the e/labli/hmept of J. {'•
berty in thi Prussian Countries. Ihe Confp'n
rators had already planned the division of tht
territory into fifteen Departments. 7he author
of the plan is a Suiifs named Burner, iubo fai
befn arreted,
/ oSober 13.
General Angtneau has received 9 prcfent of
a Standard and fixfine Hourfet from the Dit
redory.
Counifl of yoe, Oct, 1 o—The refolutitf
for rejeSingfrom the Legijlative Body, Frerott,
and the other Deputies from Qayerfnej was put)
and carried in the affirmative,
. ~ POST-OFFICE,
Philadelphia, Dec. 30.
' Letter; for -the Briti/h Packet tht '
Princtfs Charlotte, for Falmouth, will he
■ revived at this Office until Tuesday, the
> 2d January, at 12 o'clock, noon,
N. B. The inland to New-Ybrfc
tnuf} be paid. < 21
~ new Theatre. *
! THIS EVENING,
1 DECEMBER 30,
WHI be Pcfoiti-d. the Biflorical Play of
COLUMBUS:
1 or, A World Discovered.
To which will be added, the Comic Opera of
t THE FARMER.
Loft This Forenoon,
t A ten dollar Note on the Bank of the Ig
nited States, whoever has found it an 4 will
e bring it to the office of this Gazette (hall re*
, ceive a reward from the owner.
> BALL.
f, Mr. Byrne's second Ball will ba
on Tucfiay the id of Jiruary, at Oeller's hotel-*
.. Gentlemen', Tickets at ona dollar each to be '
. at tht hotel—Ladies' Ticltrts to be had of Mr. ap«}
o Mri. Byrne, No. Jr4 r.or'h Sixth
it The days of Tuition lax yotong Ladies, affiltcd
ie by Mrs. Byrne,are on Tuffday and Saturday raor*
ning—in the afternoon of the fame days for young
gentlemen, and Thyrfday and Saturday evenings
5 " for gentleanen.
d Dec qo. It
f ; Mrs, GRA TTA N,
"RESPECTFULLY informs her friends and tJ}J
IV public in general, that oeceGity obliges hey
•h to make this effort for the of her fa?
Ie mily ; for them Mrs. G. solicits the support an<t
patr»nage of a generous public, at her
SECOND CONCERT,
• which will be on Tuesday next, at Mr. RichardetS*.
' Subscribers Tickets Six dollars, whifh admit a])
n " the unmarried lames of his family,
a- Nq tickets transfeioble.
is. Non fu'leribersTicketsTv\n Dollars.,
j,. The Concert to begin at half pad seven, and the
x Band to attend for the Ball at eight.
The Subfcrileft will please to fcr.dfor their tiJc*
ets, at No. 19} High Strtet.
it- Dec d#PROPOSALS
FOR
CARRrim THE PUBLIC MAILS
On the following Post Roads will be re
ceived at the General Post Office until
the 14th day of February next incluii've.
PENNSr LP A NIA, Ete.
I. From Philadelphia by Wilmington, Newcas
tle, Cantwcll's brieve, Duck crcck, Dover, Fred
€fica, Milford, Cloughs, Dagfborough, Trap,
Snowhill, Horntown and Aecotnac court house to
Northampton court house thfee times a week.
Apnl ito November ij. Leave Philadelphia ev
ery Fudday, Thursday and Saturday at 2 a M,and
arrrive at Northamptoa c *irt house on Thufday,
Saturday and Monday at p ni. Returning. Leave
Northampton court house every Vriday, Monday
and Wcdw-fJay 3t 2 a m, and arrive at Philadel
phia on Monday, Wednesday and Friday by 7 i-t
I
November 15 to April i. Leave Philadelphia ev- |
cry i'ucid»y, Thursday and Saturday at 6 a m,
and arrive at Northampton court house on Friday, :
Monday ar;d Wednesday by 7T M. Returning—» !
Leave Northampton court hoafc every Saturday,
Tuesday ar.d Thursday at 6 a m, and arrive at
Philadelphia on Wednesday, Friday and Monday
by 7 p m. |
VIRGINIA.
a. From Northampton court house to Norfolk
thr " times a week.
April i to Novimiir 15. Leave Northa/npton
court houfi every Monday, Wednesday and Fri- j
d.'.y at 8 p m, and crr:ve at Norfolk in 14 hours.
Returning—Leave Norfolk every Wednesday, Fri
day aud Monday a 4 a m, and arrive at Northamp
ton court house in twenty four hours. j
fjbvtptlcr.lf to April I. Leave Northampton
court Uouie everyTuefday, Tharfday and Saturday
at 3 a M, and arrive at Norfolk in £4 hour*, ftc
tr/rxihg—Leave Norfolk every Monday, Wednes
day an.J Friday Ky 4 a m, and arrive at Northamp
ton ccurt house in 14 hours.
PENNSYLVANIA W MARYLAND.
3. From Philadelphia by Wilmington, New. 1
yo?t,Chii 4 liana,Middletown,Warwick andGoerge-
Cown croft reads to Ch.-Herftown threetimesa week.
May Ito November j. Leave Philadelphia every
Sunday, 'l'uefd»y and Thunfdal by 9 r m, and ar
rive at Chellertown the n.'xt days by 8r M. Re- !
tzr iing-~-Leave Cheftertown every Monday, Wed
nesday and Friday by 9 p m, and arrive at Phila
de)phia the ueit days by 8 r m.
November 1 to Afmy I. Leave Philadelphia eve
ry Monday and Friday by 9 a m, and arrive at
Chellertown on Tuesday aud Saturday by 4 r m,
Hcturxirg—Leave Cheftertown every Monday and
Friday hy 8 a m, and arrive at Philadelphia on
Tuesday and Saturday by 4 p m.
MARYLAND.
4. From Chellertown by Centerville, Eafton, 1
Newmarket, Vienna, Salisbury, Suowhill and Prin
cess Ann to Salisbury once a week.
Receive the mail at Chtftertuwn every Wednef- ]
day at 7 am, arrive at Kafton by 4 p m. Leave I
Jiafton onThurfJay by 6 a m, arrive at Snowhill
on Friday by I p. m, and at Princels Ann by 6 p.
M. Returning— LeavePrincefs Amp on Saturday by ;
10 am, arrive at Eafton tbc next day or Monday ,
by 6p m. Leave Eafion on Tuesday by 8a m, and ,
arrive at Cheftertown fame day by 4 p m. !
5. From Harford by Bel-Air to the Blaek horse
once 3 week. )
Leave Harford every Tuesday by 10 a m, and
arrive ar Black horie by 6p m. Returning—l.eavc f
Black horse on Wcdnelday by 5 am, anu arrive at t
Harford the next Tuesday !>y 9 a m. ,
.PENNSYLVANIA, MARYLAND and VIR- c
GIN I A,
6. From Baltimore by Blackhorfe to Yorktown t
Pa. onee a week. c
Leave. Baltin.ore every Friday by 4 )«, arrive
at Bl»ckho»fc on Saturday By 10 a m, and arrive r
at Yotktown by 8 Pm. Returning—Leave York- j
town every Thursday by 7 am, and arrive at Bal- «
titnore on Friday noon.
7. From Yorktown by Hanover, Petersburg,
Taneyton acd Fredcricktown to Lcefburg once a
week.
Leave Yorktown every Monday at 8, a m,arrive „
at Frederiektown on Tuesday hf 5p m, andarrive '
at Leelburg on Wednesday by ap m. Returning— y
Leave Leefburg every Friday at noon, andarrive
at Yorktown by 6 p m on Sunday. ai
8. Frorti Yorktown by Abbotftown,Getti(burg,
Faprfield, Eliiabethtown, Williamfport, Martins- h
burg, Winchester, Stevenfburg and Strafburg to 5
Woccfitork once a week.
Leave Yorktown every Suhday by noon, arrive "
at Martiufburg su Tuesday by 11 am. Leave C
Martinlburg on Tuesday noon and arrive at Wood- a
flock on Weduefday by 6p m ■ Returning—l-qave
Woodftock on Thursday Ry 6a m, arrive at Mhr- m
tiufburg on Friday by 11 am, andarrive atYork- p
town on Sunday byn 4 m. j
9. From Pittflmrg by Cannonlburg, Walhing- 0 ,
ton, Weft Liberty and Wheeling to the mouth of
Fifhipg creek once a week (contract for one year j e
only.) . 0 ,
Leave pittfburg every Friday at 9 a m, and ar
rive at Fifhmg creek on Sunday at 9 a m. Return•
i/>j—Leave Fifliing creek 011 Wedoefday at 8' a m,
and arrive »t Pittfburg on Friday at 8 a m. ~
lot From Washington by Brownsville and Union .
to Morgantown once a week. r '
Leave Union every Friday at 6 a m, and arrive
at Washington by 6p m. Leave Washington on ' a
Saturday at 6 a m, arrive at Morgantown on Sun
day at 6p m. Leave Morgantown on Monday at
8 am, andarrive at Union by 3 p m.
11. From Baltimore by Frederiektown, £liza» ar
bcthto.wn, Greencaftle and Charuberfburg to Ship* M]
penfburg once a week. an
Leave Baltimore every Friday by II am, arrive L<
at Frederiektown on Saturday by 10 am, atEli- ri'
zabethtown in the evening, and at Shippenfburg Ei
oil Monday by 7p M. Returning—Leave Shippenf- Ri
burg every Tuesday at 9 A m, arrive at Elizabeth
town at Bpm, at Frederiektown on Wednesday t | c
noon, and at Baltimore on Thursday by 5 r m.
MARYLAND. an
1%. From Eliiabethtown by Hancock and Old
town to Cumberland once a week.
Leave Cumberland every Saturday by 6 a M,and '
arrive at Eliiabethtown on Monday by 8 a m. t j f
Returning—Leave Eliiabethtown every Monday by
10 a m, and arrive at Cumberland on Tqefilay by
y M ,
6 ' M. ■
13. From Baltimore to Annapolis once a week.
Leave Baltimore every Monday at 8 am, and in
arrive at Annapolis by 5 pu. Returning—Leave
Annapolis everyTuefday at 8a m, and arrive at P'
Baltimore by 5 pm. Of
14. From Baltimore by Annapolis, Queen 4 oi)«,
Upper Marlborough,Pifcataway,Psrttobaceo, Vl- da
lcnsftefb, Newport and Chaptico to Leonardtowtf' on
once a week. , isa
Leave Baltiinore every Friday at 10 a arrive ri\
at Annapolis at 5r u. Leavr Annapolis on £a- by
turday at 6 a m, arrive at Upper Marlborough
by noon,arrive atPifcata'.vay by 6Pm. & arrive at ;
Leonardtown every Monday forenoon by 90' clock. Ca
Returning—LeaveLeonardtown every Monday at 3 ra »
pm, arrive at Pifcataway 011 Tuesday by 6p m we
arrive at Upper Marlborough on Wednesday by
11 am, and arrive at Annapoluby 6 pm. Leave •>
Annapolis ijn Thursday by 7 and arrive at p ,
Baltimore byiP m. '
Isw From Annapolis by Lower Marlborough, '
Huntuigton and Calvert court house to St. Leon- a
ards once a week. *
Leave Annapolis every Saturday at 9A m, and ,
arrive at St. Leonards on Monday by 3p m. Re- f n ',.
turning —Leave St. Leonards every Monday at 4 A°
p m , and arrive at A nnapolis the next Saturday by
6 A M. 3
16. From Bladeufrurg by Upper Marlborough to'l
Mnn iwz-i-itf.zrj-y Lower acqU'HC.i, Dt'J
i ritfuiit and. ChJrlottcfwii to weafcv
Leave Giackflfburg rv ry Saturday at 9 a m, ar
rive at Upper by noouand at Lower
Marlberouo-hou Monday by 5 i> m, & at Cnaptico
by 6 r m. fccturiiing—LeaveCiUpticoeveryThutf
day at 6 a m.
cIA 17* From Georgetown by Montgomery court
g 9 house to Frederiektown oncea week.
I.«ave Geotg-'ov/ij every Friday 6y 6 a m, ant;
arrive at Frederiektown by 6 ?M • Returning—
j Leave Fre dermic town every Thursday by 5 am,
ca and arrive at Georgetown bv 6p m.
; d ; nwijiA.
r' 18. From Woodftock by Newmarket, Rocking
-0 hem court houlc, Staunton, Lexington and Fincaf
tie to Big Lick once a week.
"j Leave Woodftock.every Thursday by 6a m, ar
rive at Staunton on Friday at I» m. Leave Staun
''J' ton every Friday at 2 pm, arrive at Big Lick on
e Sunday by II m. Returning—Leave Big Lick
I y on Sunday by rp m, arrive at Staunton every Tuef
~ d.iy by 11 am. Leave Staustom by 12 o'clock
* )uoon) and arrive at Wood (lock on Wednesday by
jfM.
" v 19. From Big Lick by Montgomery court house
;! ' | and Wythe court house to Abingdon once a week,
j Leave Big Lick every Sunday at 1p M> arrive
j at Wythe court house on Tuesday by Ipm, and at
l J' Abingdon on Wednesday by 6p m. Returning-,-
a Leave Abingdon every Thursday by 6a m, arrive
at Wythe court house 011 Friday by 1 m, and ar-
I rive at Big Lick on Sunday by 11 am .
j TENNESSEE.
' »o. From Abingdon, Vir. by Joncfborough
Greenville,Moffat's store and Jelferfon court house
on to Knoxvilie once a week.
r! " 1 Leave Abingdon every Thursday by 6a m, ar
-1 - rive at Moffats store on Saturday by 8a m. Leave
ri " Moffats by 9a m, and arrive at Knoxvilie on Sun-
P" day by 10 am. Returning—Leave Knoxvilie eve
| ry Sunday by I r u, arrive at Meffats on Monday
m by 3r m. Leavo Moffats on Monday at 4 PM,
jy a °d arrive at Abingdon on Wedntlday by 7 PM.
viismiA.
I'. Frota Winchester by Romney to Moorfelds
P" once a week.
* Leave Winchester every Thursday at 6a m, and
arrive at Moorfield on Friday by 6 PM. Return
j '"g—Leave Moorfield every Saturday at 8 a m, and
f- i arrive at Winchester on Sunday by 6 P M.
»». From Alexandria by Centerville, Leefburg
y a nd Shephcrdftown to Martinfburg once a Week.
r * j Leave Alexandria every Wednesday at 9a m,
'• ] and arrive at Martinfburg on Friday by 10 a m.
Returning—Leave Martinfburg every Friday by
s " noon & arrive at Alaxaudria on Monday by 7a m.
13. From Frederickfljburg by Port Royal, Lay
e- tona, Tapprihannock, Urbanna and Glouecfter court
at house to Yorktown once a week.
*• Leave Frederickfburg every Wednesday at 6 a
m, arrive at Tappahannock on Thursday by u
,n am. Leave Tappahannock at noon and arrive at
Yorktown on Saturday by ham. Returning—
Leave Yorktttwa every Saturday at 1 P M, arrive
n » *t Rappahannock the next Monday noon and arrive
1" at|Frederickikurg onTuefdayby J PM.
24. From Tappahannock by Richmond court
hsufe, Weftmoreland court house, Kiufale, Farn
'« hrm church and Northumberland court house to
'I Laneafler court house once a week*
'■ Leave Tappahannock every Thursday noon and
1 arrive at Laneafler court house en Saturday by «1
y am. Returning—Leave Laneafler court house av
ery Saturday by 1 P M. and arrive at Tappahan
no«k on Monday by 11 a m.
e *J. From Frede(ickfburg by Culpfper court
house & Orange c. h. a week.
» Leave Frederickfburg every Tuesday at vo am,
e and arrive at €harlottefviUe on Thursday by 11 A
' m. Returning—Leave Charlottefville on Saturday
at B*P M, and arrive 'at Frederickfburg on Twei'-
- dayby 6 am.
16. Frem Richmond by Goochland court- ,
a house Columbia and Charlottefville to Staunton
one# a week.
: Leave Richmond every Tuefday,at 1f M, sr
- rfve at CharlotteiVHle on Thursday t-yiiAN.j
Leave Charlottefville by noon and arrive at 1 1
Staunton on Friday by ii AM. Returning— 1
Leave Staunton o« Saturday by 6 A m, arrive at
Cbarlortefville by 7p m, and arrive at Rich- ]
1 roond tim next Tuesday by 9 4 m.
»7. Fr»m Staunton by Bath court-house and
Sweet Springs t j Greenbrier court-house ouce a 1
| week. t
Leave Staunton every Saturday at 6a m, and '
arrive at G'eenbrier court-house on Tuesday by
i 6 pm. Returning—Leave Greenbrier court- 1
, house every Monday by 9 am, and arrive at ''
, Staunton on Thursday by 8 r m.
zS. From Charlattefvile by Warren, War- c
minster, New-Market, Araherft court house, g
Cabelllburg, and Maddifon to Lyochburg ouce 1
a week.
Leave Charlottefville every Thursday at 1 r 1
m. and arrive at Lyochburg oh Saturday at 6 ''
p m. Returning—Leave Lynchburg every 0
Tuesday by 6 a M, and arrive at Charlottefville ,
on Thursday by 10 A M.
it). From Richmond by Hanovertown, Ay- ,
letti and Todds to Tappahannock once a week n
•r if carried in stages as often at, they lhall run. b
Leave Richmond every Wednesday at 5 AM,
arrive at Todds at 3 p m, and at Tappahannock
on Thursday at 11 a m. Returning—Leave If
Tappahannock on Monday at 1 p m, and ar- *
/ive at Rtchiriond on Tuesday by 5 PM.
30. From Richmond by Hopkins'*, Powha- "
tan court house, Cumberland court houfj, Prince V
Edward court house and Lyachburjj'to New-
London, once a week.
Leave Richmond every Tuesday at 8 A m, Cl
arrive at Prince Edward on Wednesday at 6 r G
M, and arrive at Lynchburg on Friday at 8A m, Ir
ami at I'Vew-Londoi by i© a r:. Returning bi
Leave New-Lond'iu every Friday at t pm, ar- 01
rive at Lynchburg by 5 PM, arrive at Prince
Edward on Saturday by 7 p m, and arrive at
Richmond on' Monday by 4 P M.
31\ Frem New-London by Liberty to Fincaf-
tic once a week.
Leave New London every Friday at 1 p m, 0 i
and Arrive pr FSncaftle on Saturday by 6 r m.
Returning—Leave Fincafllc on Monday at 5 a ri
m, and arrive at New London on Toefday noon.
3». From Liberty by Rocky Mount to Mar- ri
tinville once in t>#o weeks.
Leave Liberty every other Saturday
and arrive at Martinville on Sunday by 6 p
m. Leave Martinville on Monday by 6 AM,
and arrive at Liberty on Tuesday by 6P M. tc '
33. From Prince Edward court house by or
Charlotte court house to Halifax court house
once a week. ar
Leave PrinceEdwardcounhoufecveryThurf- ar
day at 6A M, and arrive at Halifax court house or
on Friday at 10 AM. Returning—Leave Hal- M
ifax court house on Friday by 1 PM, and 0- i'
. rive at Prince Edward tourt house on Saturday c
by 6Pm. u
VIRGINIA anJNORTH-CAROHNA.
34. From Halifax court-house by Halifax old town, VV
Carte s, Martinville, Patrick eourt-houfc, Upper Sau- q,
Grritiantown and Bethania to Salem once in two L c
weeks. at
Leave Halifax cdurt-houfe every other Friday at
2, PM, and arrive at Salem the next Monday bv 6, L e
PMo Returning—Leave Salem every other Tuesday at
at 6, A and ajrivc at Halifax court-house on Fri
dayby 10, A M. |u
35. Fiom Harris's by ford to Halifax twice
a week.
Leave Harris's every Wednesday and by °f
5, A M. and arrive at Halifax by 6, PM. Return- *>)
ing— Jlalifax every Thursday and Sunday by 6,
A M, and arrive at Harris's by 7, P. M. by
VIRGINIA.
36. From Smith field by Southampton «ourt-houCr
to Hickc>*s ford once a week. y a
teue Hicks%fj«l every other Friday by 2, P M,
<s. and strive at SmithlieM on Saturday by 5. PM. -
ar- Returning—i.eaveSmithficld every oi her Sunday by
?er 5, A Mj and arrive at Hieks's ford oa Monday bv
ico 2, PM.
if- 37. FroinGbMblStliy St. Tammany'*,
ur- Meck'fnberg and I.u lenburg coiitt-hi)ufes and Ed
munds (lore to once a week,
art Lea v eGoklfon'severy WednefdayaMO, A M, and
return thencxt Samrday by n, P M, wailing at each
n ,' , Poft-OSce s hours alter delivery oT the m»il
_ , riR.Ol.VIsl O" NOR.Tti-G 4RQLINA.
M 3 8, From Suffolk by Eden ton, Plymouth and Wa
' fiimgton to Newbern, oner a week Leave Suffolk
every Monday at noon, arrive at Edenton on Tuef
da , st 1, P M, at Plymouth, on Wednefdsy by 6,
5; A M, at Washington by 6, P M, and at Newbern on
Thursday by 3, P M. Returning—Leave Newbern
every Friday by 6, A M, arrive at Waihington by
3r " 5, FM. Arrive at Plymouth on Saturday by 4
1!1 - PM, at Kd-nton on Sunday by 9, AM, ai.d ai Suf
on folk on Monday by o, A M.
ck NORTH CAROLINA.
ef- 39. From Edcnionby Hertford, Njxoixon, Elija
ck beth city, and Joncfburg to luaian-towa, once a
by week.
Leave Edento* every Wednefdav by 1, P M, and
ifc arrive at Indian-town on Thu'fday by 6, P M. Rc
lurning—Leave Indiaii'towncveryTuefdayby AM,
vc and arrive at Edenton on Wedn«fday at iJL A M.
at 40. From Halifax by Northampton eoutt-Jioufe,
_. Princeton, Murfreclboroogh, Wintou and Windsor
to Edenton, once a week.
Leave Halifax every Monday at 9, AM, and arrive
»t Edenton on Wednesday by 3, P M, leave Eden
ton on Wednefdsy by 6, P M, and arrive at Halitax
on by 11, A M
; 4'- From Halifax bySco'land, Hogton, Williamf
le ton snd Daily's Plymouth, once a welk. Leave
Halifax every Monday at I®, A M, and arrive at Ply
r- mouth on Wedntsfday by to, A M. Returning—
re Leave Plymouth on Wednesday at a, PM, and ar.
1- rive St Halifax on Friday st 10, AM.
e- 4JJ*. Frons Halifax by Tatboro' and Greenville to
Walhingtononee a week
a, . Leave Halifax every Monday atie, AM, and ar
uve at Wauiiugton on Wednesday by 10 A M. Re
turning -Leave Washington every Wednefdsy at a,
lt P M, and anive at Halifax on Friday at 10, A M.
43. From Hshfaxby Wanenton,Williatnfborougb,
Oxford, Hullborough, Martinville, Salem, Lexing
ton, Salilbury and Statefville to Charlotte and from
" Charlotte by Cabarras court-house to Salisbury, and
from hence by the fame route to Halifax, once a
week.
g Leave Halifax every Monday at g< AM, arrive at
Warreuton by 7, P M, arrive at Hillfborou.h on
I, Wednesday at 4. PM, at Saleril on Friday by 5,
I. PM, at Salilbury on.s»mrdiy at 4, PM, and at
y Charlotte on Monday by 6, AM. Returning—leave
vhaiiuicfrxsn M--nday ai io, A M, arrive at Salisbury
»n r.iefdiyby 10, A M, arrive at Salem 1011 Wed
rt nefdayatg, A M, at Hillfborough on Friday by q,
A M, at Warrentoo o-l Saturday at 7, P M, and at
Halilsx an Monday at 6, A M.
t 41' From Hillfborough by Mount Tirzah, Perfcn
1{ court-house, Lealburg, Cafwell couit.houleand Roc-
Icinghim court-house to Germantowra once in two
week*.
' I.eave Hillfborough every otherThurfdayat 6, AM,
and arrive at Germantown on Saturday at 4, P. M.
Leave Gcrmsntown every other Sunday at 6, A, M,
t and aryve at Hillfborough on Tuesday at 4, PM.
45 From Salem by Bethania, Huntfville, Koch
-0 lord, Wilkes, Morganton and Rutherfordton to Spar
tanburg in S. C. one? in two weeks.
1 I cave Salem Saturday at S A m, andar
-1 rive at Spartanburg oti' Wednesday at 5p M, Leave
. Spartanburg every other Thursday at 7 a at, and ar
. live at Salem the next Monday at 6r n.
46. Fiom Louitburg by Nafh court-house to Tar
borough once a week.
. Leave Taiborough every Friday by 6A m, and ar
rivcat Louifbuigby 6 pm. Remrving—Leave Louis-
L burg every Saturday by 6A m, and arrive at Tarbo
t rough by 6r m.
47. from Raleigh by Smithfield," Wayncfborough, 1
and Kinglldn to Newbcm, once in two weeks.
Leave Raleigh every other Tuelday by 8 a m, and
arrive at Newbern the next Friday by 10 a m. i
1 Returning—Leave Ne»bem every other Friday by a i
' M, **', arrive at Raleigh on Monday L v 6 r m. i
48. x rem Raleiph by Chapel hill to ,'lilKborough,
, • and from HillfboKWgh by Chapjl hUlaisd Chatham ,
I court-house to Raleigh, once a v.'teU. To wait two
hours at Chathan\ court-house.
Leave Raleigh every Tuesday by 6 a w, and ar
rive at Hillfborough by 6 r M. Returning—Leave
Hillfborough every Wednesday by 8 a m, and arrive
at Raleigh on Thursday by 10 a m,
49. From Fayetteville by Elizabcthtown, Bellefort a
and Springfield to Wilmington, and from Wilming- t
tan by S. Washington, Sarefto and Ssmpfon court- 1
house to Fayetteville, once a week.
Leave Fayetteville every Tuesday at 6 a si, and
arrive at Wilmington on Thursday at |0 a. m. Re
turning —Leave Wilmington every Thursday 14AM,
and arrive at Fayetteville on Sunday by j r m.
50. From Fayetteville by Alfordion and Randolph
coart-houfe to Salisbury, and from Salisbury by Mont
gamcry court-house, Anfon ccurt-houle and Rich
mond court-houfc to Fayetteville, once a week.
Leave Fayettevilli every Saturday at 6 a m, and
arrive at Salisbury on Tuesday by 9a m, Le. ve Sa*
lifbury every Tuelday noon and arrive at Fayetteville
on Friday by 6 * m.
51. From Newbern by Trenton and Richland to
Wilmington once a week.
Leave Newbern every Friday at to a u, and arrive
at Wilmington on Sunday by 6 r. it. Leave Wil
mington every Tuesday at 10 am, and arrive at Now- «,
bern on Thursday byor"ti.
SOUTH fcf NORTH-CAROLINA.
sa. From Camden by Lancafler court-house, Char
lotte and Liucolnlon to Statefville, once in two
weeks.
Leave Camden every other Monday at 6 a m, ar.
rivcat Staicfvilie an Thursday by m Leave Statef
ville every other Friday by 2 p it, aad arrive at Cam
den On Monday by 6 r. m.
SOUTH-CAROLINA,
53. From Columbia by Winnfboroygh, Chefler
caurt-houfe, Pinckneyville, Spartanburg and w
Greenville couit-houfe to Pickenfville, and
from Pickenfville by Laurens court-houle and New
bury court-house to Columbia, once a week ; waiting '
one hour at each poft-office on the route. I i
Leave Columbia t'very Monday at 9A M, arrive at
Spartanbuig every Wepnelday by 3 r m, arrive at I<
Pirkeufville on Thursday at pm, arrive at Laurens 3-
court-house on at 4 r u, and at Columbia ou
Sunday by 6 ? si. N _ c
54. From Columbia by Orangeburg to Charlcfton,
once a week. ~ 'iK 5 * -
Leave Columbia every Monday at 10 a m. and ar
rive at Charlaflon 011 Thursday at 10 am. Returning £ ' l
—Leave Charleston every Thursday as a p M, and ar-
rive at Columbia on Sunday at noon. ° u
SOUTH-CAROLINA i 5 GEORGIA.
55- From Edgefield court-house by Cambiidge, {"'
Abbeville court-house, Pendleton court-house, Hat
tohsford, Franklin court-house, Elberton and Peters el
burg to Wafhiogton, and from Wafliing&n by Ee
terlburg aad Cambridge to Edgcfieid court-house, thi
once a week. W
Leave Edgcfieid court-house every Friday byßAw, lei
arrive at Pendleton court-house on Sunday by 9 ,am fqi
arsive at Franklin court-house by 7 pm, at Petersburg tw
on Tuesday by 10 am, and at Walbington by 5 p fih
si. Leave Washington every Wednesday acfi a m, w j
at Cambridge on Thuftday by »o AM, and at Edge- t hi
field court-house by 7 p m. j r
56 From Au»uP 4 a Grecofburg and u'e
Lexington to Gtor'(;ttT,v»n, once a week.
Leave Augufla every Monday at 3 p m, arrive at
Washington on Tue day by 5 * m, and arrive at ,
Georgetown on Thursday by 7p M . Returning
Leave Georgetown every Friday at 6 a m, and arrive
at Augulla by noon on Monday. r
57. From Garden* Corner to Beaufort once a week, ori
Leave Beaufort every Thursday at 2p m, and arrive mt
at Gaidens Corner by 8 r m. Returning—Leave Gar
dens Corner every Thursday at 5 a st, andariiveat
Beaufort by 10 a. K.' fcij
Nile I. The Pyl Majler General may alter the times
of arrival and departure a l any time during the continuance aB
1./ the contrafii, he (ire-tinufy Jlipulating an adequate etm
fcnfativH fir any a tra expafejhat may he occafieued there
\b .
A ate 1. Half an hour faail he allowed for opening T
and fiffilig the AltHbf fit'ojfiiti •where no particular time A
if fpmfed, rs;
Mi | tiotc 3* Fcr every k'our*s delay (unavoidable-accidents
. I excepted) inanivin'g alter the titMes preferibed in an\ con
by tra the Cent radar JJiall forfait one dollar\ and if the de
by lay continue until the departure of any \detending Mail,
whereby the Mails depined f(T such depending Mail, lose
* trtyjf* additional forfeiture of fine dollars fhatl be
'd- incurred;'
Note 4 N e -ivfpipers as -well as Letters are to be sent
u tn ' 'f a, y t er f un making profiofals desires
lC to carry neivfpahers other than these conveye-J in the mail,
for his own em'l went, he mujl fate in his propcfals for
Kohat fin he luill carry'i%iuitb that emolument and for
What sum without that emolument.
ef- Note 5. Should any perfin making proposals Jeftre an
g alteration of thi times of arrival and departure ctbwe fpe
on hetnufl Qate in his prop Sals the alterations del* red,
rn an * je difference they ivill make in the terms of hit con
by traa '
4 Note 6. Perjbnt making propcfals are deft red'to slate
if. their prices in graft by the year, and not by the mile.
Those zvbo contruft will receive their pay quarterly, in
the months of January, April, "July and Colter, in
ia- drafts on the pojl offices on the route and in banknotes.
a Note 7. The contrails are to be in operation on the frU
day of April next, and continue for fdur yectis, until
id the 3 \fi day of March indufit/e, in the year I &CJ2.
£ JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
te, Pofl-Mafter General.
or General Post Otfice, ">
Philadelphia, December 18, 179 7; j
re tuth&«H4thP
»« New-Theatre,.
if- December 11, 1797.
ve I 'HE Manacsrs particularly requef. the con
y- 1- currence of the public in the abolition of a
cudom, which has hitherto obtained, of giving a
r. way or disposing of RETURN CHECKS at th«
Theatre.
to They are aware that gentlemen are unconscious
of any wrong dene to the interest of the inftitu
r- tion by thispraflice, from a general, though n»if
c" taken idea that Checks are the reprcfentatives of a
right to so many featß in tlie Theatre, during an
•' Evening's Entertainment, and transferable at will;
• when in fa&, they were never intended as more
than token by which the Poor-keepers are enabled
1( j to ascertain with the least trouble to the partier,\.htt
a they themfehee have been before in the Theatre, or
paid for their admiflion.
lt Independent of the iajury the Managers sustain,
n such a praAice encourages a croud of idle boys and
5, °th«r disorderly p*rfon« to surround the doors of
!t the Theatre, to the oorruption of their morals and
•e the great annoyance of the Audience.
f It has also be«n the fouree of two evils of no in
- confidcrabie magnitude; one i», that fometimcs
I, very improper company is by these maans admit
it ted ; tnd the other, that owin„< to Checks palling
into tiifhoneft hands, they have be.n frequohaly
" counterfeited to a large amount for the purpofesof
" Sale
0 This statement will, it is refpedlfully hoped, in
duce the Public to dlfcourage such a traffic : and
• the exertions of the Managers will, if thus assisted,
easily prove adequate to its entire abolition
WIGNELL & REINAGLE.
. December 13 1W
Muftcal Instrument Manufactory,
167, Arsh-ftreet. |
e TO THE LOTERS OF HARMONY.
HARPER, 1
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he has f
now ready for i'ale, a few as his sew 'invented, 1
_ and much admired Cde board Piano Fortes, with '
. Pedals, patent swell, fonqpahant and French harp
. flop, which for sensibility of touch, brilliancy of
tone, ftmplicity and durability of conftru&ion, the
( fnperiority of whichjie flatters himfelf, a firgle tri
al will convince the unprejudiced judge—As they
1 are manufactured under his immediate ihfpeftion, -
, of the very best seasoned materials, he can fell on
reasonable terms for Cask. Inftrnmsnta repaired,
tuned, &c.
> N. B. Seeoi.d band Piano Forteataken in ex
change for new.
1 lawimo. J
Samuel & Miers Fi{her~ '
ARE NOW OPHKINU,
At their Warehouse, No. a Street, afrelh
aflbrtmcnt of Woolen and other goods, fuitablc to
the season, received by the late arrivals from En»-
land. 5
ITiey have m/fa fir Sale,
Lisbon
Sherry', and ( ,n P i P c, ' hhlls - anJ I«»rter calks-
Port Wines, 3
AfTortttd queen's wart in crate 9, &c.
loth mo' 13d.
. City of Walhington. b
SCHEME I
Of the Lattery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificentdwelltng-houfe 10,000 dollars,
Si c*lh 30,000, *re 'jo.ooo
1 ditto i5,«00 3s. call) 15,000 40,00 a >
1 ditto 15,000 & caih 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & cafb 10,000 30,000 |
1 rlitto 5,000 & calh 3,000 ro.ooo p
1 ditto 5,000 & caflj 5,000 10,000 4
I cash prite of 10,000
» do. 5,000
10 do. 1,000 • - xo,ooo
ia do. 5»o - - 10,000
00 do. 100 - -• 10,000
*OO ds. 50 10,000
400 do. »5 • 10,000
1, oop do. to • to,ooo
15,000 do. 10 • 159,000
«*»73V Priies. „ A
33,261 Blanks.
2J
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,001)
A
N. B. Tofavour thofewho may take a quan- Be
tity of Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be H
the last drawn ticket, and the 30.000 the last
but on»
Andapprovednotes, fccuring payment in either
monsy or priies, in ten days alter drawing, will Ni
be receivedfor any number net lefsthan 30 tick- G<
ets. ' CI
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of Sp
the private buildings to be ersded in the City of Pr
Washington—Two beautiful designs are already CI
leleiled for the entire fronts on two of the public
squares; from these drawings it is proposed to erec9 Be
two centre and r our corner baildings,as toon aspof- N<
fible after this lottery is fold, and to convey them, A
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, ic R- 1
the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel CI
Lottery. A nett dedu&ion of fiv_e percent, will Lt
be made so defray t)-.e necessary expenses of priKt- Nt
tng, &c. and thte surplus will he made a pact of A
the fund intended for the National UniverfAy, to C;
be creeled within the city of Washington. At
The real fecurittesgiven for the payment of the
Priies, are held by the President and two DireA-
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are Valued as
more than half the amount of the lattery. At
SAMUEL DLODGET.
»§« Tickets may be had at the Bank of Colom
bia ; of James Weft 5c Co. Baltimore; of Peter FfJ
Gilman, Boston ; of Johc Hopkins, Richmond
and n irh-i"/ Frrrv rnw '^ e
jSamuel Pleafants & Sons, u [
No. 74, South Second-Jlreet, RP
HAVE received a fuppjy of Seasonable GOODS,
which they are now opening for lale, on a*a
roafonable terms. OA %]. 4W
For Savannah,
de- TO SJII THE FIRST OPENING,
>~=a The faft failing Ibip
t SWIFT PACKET,
r Patrick Gribben, Master,
3pV"W lying the firft wharf below
re ! Market Street—has handsome ac
'?» commcdations fo r palmers—For freight or pas
s" fa S e apply to the M after nn board, or to
° r N. iff y. Frazer,
an j. No. 95, South Front Street.
s«- " on hand, andfor Sale,
Pf' lsl ''Ri ce . ill whole am) half tierces, Georgia
w . and Carolina Indigo, Mobiles in hhds, Tenerifft
wine, Sec. &c
it' December a; ttawtf. »
'
{? Wanted to Charter,
Britifli v«flel, fifteen hundred
r Q thoufaiid five hundred btr-
Peter 'Blighty
WHO HAS FOR SALe, S*
Choice Red Port Wine in pipes and j&tthut
and old London Particular Madeira, S& iof imme
diate iife, in pipe*.
December ao f lyr
For Charleftoru r
J""** THE ■'iHIP
" k ISIiC V ENUS,
1 J ' Lyi ™ *' >ic w W o/M'Jrs. PaJt,
3 Q : "! £ wiU take Freight on very
„ «■ O low term», and fail the firll
opening .Apply to the matter on board, or te
18 Jos. Anthony Isf Co.
' Detemher .8
I ~ For
i" FA R ° $e R,
,t John M'Cotiom, Mailer;
r M i Q a few day*, the
greater part of her cargo bein<
ready. For freight •( fifty tons of Coffee, or naf M
d sage, apply to the matter on board, at Watou\
£ street wharf, or to
i JOHN SAVAGE.
Who .* Landing, out of the said Ship, from floar
deeux, and For Sale,
» Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter caflct
Claret in cases, of~a fupcrior quality.
1 Fentiniac, f 17.
Sauteaie, ( Wines in cases
Lunille, )
J Prunes in boxes
november 14. -
For Londonderry,
TH£ BRIGANTINE
Whlub Whitten, Matter.
<f ron g good Vessel, about two
hundred tons, to fail with all convenient speed a
, great part of her sargo engaged—now lyiag'tt
Willing and Francis's wharf. For freight or psi>
sage, apply to the captain, or 4
JOHN SKYRIN,
LanJenbtrger s -wharf.
Who wants to Charter.
A Vessel of about three hundred tons.
nov I 8. <•
For Sale or Charter"
Sill» good hope, -
iMIfSEI Wi:l carry sl,eue 1500 barrels,and
" ready to tlke in a Mr S°- For terms
™ ll * apply to
Pragers & Co.
No. 151, booth Seeond-ftreet.
Who have for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar and
Rnm, Madeira, Lilbon, and Teneriffe wine. £
November j. '
For Liverpool,
he cc PP er bottomed Ship
tMimSL Hambur g Packet,
£2f{ Captain Sir. x, Swaik.
A Lar E e Proportion of her
- f heing ready to j>„ on
board, is expeficd to fail on or about SjndaiT the
3d of December. 7
For Freight 6r Passage, apply to the Captain o.
board, at Walnut-street Wharf, or to
PHILIP NICKLIN £s ■ Co.
November 22. -
r-
For Savannah, in Georgia,
' !_?«. THE SHIP
Sally Butler,
Captain Ch is holm,
I A new ve lel- with exes!lent
. acowtimodatioH. torpafleugfrs—
Sails on the loth of December. For Freight or
parage, apply ta • ROSS W SIMSON.
IVia have to difpitft of,
A small invoice of GLAUBER SALTS
INDIGO, and a parcel of HOLLY WOOD.
November 18.
t'OR SALETTj L
Anthony & Co.
No. 5, Chefnut Street,
A cargo of choice Bourdeaux Brandy, Ift and id
proof, just landed
2JO bales of Bourbon cotton of afuperior quality
9 do. Jurat, do do
A quantity of heavy black pepper in bales
Bourbon Indigo of the firft qaality
High proof Jamaica Ipirits
Old London particular Madeira wine 7ln pipes &
do. market do Jqr.caflts.
New England rum in hogshead*
Genuine Holland Gin in pipes
Claret in cases
Spermaceti candles and ftrain'd oil
Prime Boston beef
Choice Halifax Salmon in barrels and half barrsi
Do. Herring in do do *
Best Boston Mackartl in barrels of the fall f sr -
New-England tow l : «eu
A few tans ofßuflia cordage
Ruilia f.aiher bedii
Clove r a .id Tin>othy feed in jafks
Long wha)o-b«ne
540 i, i, and 3, 80/lon fail duck
A fe v chests firlt quality Hyson tea
Carolina rice in whole and hall tierces and
An invoice of Dutch hollow glafi ware. '
N )venVbcr 8. ,
. Q2W.
This day is Publiihed
At the Qffice of the Aurora, No. 112, Ma.ke. c,
[ Price one dollar and a half !
A view of theconduft of the£XECUTIVF in ,1
F : lHh: < C h N tf^ IRS "niMS.aut co oea!
du ""«
Bv JAMES MONROE
Late Minillei Plenipotentiary to the Jai.t'p.„ l.i
RESPONDp.CE and 01 her authentic documents
i allowance to ihofc who boy lo \ n
D;cernb;r 73,