sf and Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
NuXtßf.R 1508.]
For Savantruh,
The Ship
SWIFT PACKET,
Patrick Gribben, Matter,
yj/Jjt VJ OVV ly inafat Wilcocks' w,harf,
and wiil positively fail on
'Saturday, 15 th in'fh ha»dfomely accommo
date<J for paiTer+gers, and foils well. For freight
01 Hj'piy 10 the uiaftcr i>n or
N. £s ; J. Fra'zic-r,
No. 95, South Front-ftrect.
WHO HAVE FOR SAL-E,
Prime Rice in -whole and half
tierces.
July 3. * ' §«sth
For Hamburgh,
THE SHIP
CHARLO T T E,
C. F. Dan:nlerger, Mafer.
WILL be ready to receive the cargo in a few
days, anj is afaft failing fiaunch, good vcf
fe), well f^uud—For freight or pafiage, apply to
George Fermock,
No. 103, Market-jlreet.
July 1' _ 3 aw 3w
LANDING,
At Walnut-street wharf, frotn on boad ftiip Man
chester, Bjnj. Shewell, mafter.from Batirdeaui,
Bourdeaux Brandy-
Old Claret in hhds.
Medoc Wine in cases
Sauterne do. do.
For' Sale by
Thomas hfurgatroytf,
jA'<» 11, Walnui-Jlreet.
Said Ship for. Freight or Charter,
Burthen 280 tons, Philadelphia
huilt of live Oak and Cedar, will
he ready t<f fail in a few days.
July j. mwf
For Sale,
'""'"'iSi-v l fine and remarkably faft
failing Schooner
and Philadelphia
Burthen atout 100 tom. For terms apply to
Rofs iff Simfon.
* June 12. dtf
The Shareholders
Of the Pennsylvania Population Company,
ARE requested to meet at the Company's Of
fice, No $3, North Fourth Street, on Saturday
the 15th intt. at la o'clock.
By order of the Board,
SOLOMON MARACHE, Sec'ry.
July si6t.
Bank of North America.
July I, 1797.
At a meeting ofthe Directors this day, a di
vidend of Si:: P»R C»wr. ura. declared forth*
last half year, whichw ill he paid to the Stock
holders or their reprefentatlves, at any time af
ter the loth inft.
July l- diw.
George Dobfou,
No. 25 South Third-Street,
HAS imported per ships William Pcnn, Star,
and Diana, from London,
5-4 Super London Chintz, elegant patterns,
Ginghams, Muflinetts and Dimities.
Fafhio.iable Waiftccating, newest patterns.
Ribbands well assorted, in small trunks.
4-4 s-4 and 6-4 India and British Buok-muf
lins.
Fancy Cloaths and Caffimers.
Th« whole to be disposed of cheap for Catfh
or approved Notes of a ihort date.
June 14, '97. d. tf.
For Sale,
The cargo of the brig JSnterprize, Captain
l.angd'jn from Bourdeaux, now landing at
Morton's wharf, »
CON KITING OF
514 hlids. of Claret ] 2
21; cases of ditto j -a %
100 csfes of Sweet Oil ]>-g
MP pipe, London proof \ BRANDY . j j g
10 pipes or Hoil-tiid pu>of ) J >*l -a
Apply to
Wharton & Lewis,
No. 115, South Front St.
Said Brig,
WILL take a FREIGHT for
the Weft-Indies or Europe, fails
burthen about fifteen hun-
barrels, is in complete or
der, and will be raady to "receive a cargo in a
few days
Apply as above.
May 14 $
An alTortmerlt of Russia Cordage,
AMONGS r which are three cables, one of 12.
one of 10 11, and the other j 1-2 inches,
»nd each 120 fathoms long
Boston Sail Duck, No's. 1,2, 3. and 4
.Bourbon Cotton, of a very superior quality
Oit[o Crffce in bags
lfleof France Indigo
A few bales well alTorted India Mufllns
Spermacxti Oil
Ditto Candles
Boston Beef, prime and mess
Codfiih in hogiheads and tierces
.Ditto in quintals
Mackarel in harrcls
Hctrings in ditto
4th proof Brandy, and
A few kegs of Larti
/ LSO,
Jult landing frotr on board the Aflive, from Ham
burgh,
toby 12, 8 by 10, and 9 by 12 Win
do w Glass, and a few boxes aflorted Dutch G'afs
W.'re, for sale by
JoJeph Anthony & Co.
June 27 lot
Dispute between the United States
and France.
This day ispublifhed, I y Thomas Bradford, No.
8, South Front ftree', n rice 2/4,
OBSERVA i'ION'S on the ci'lute between the
United States and France, addrtffed by Ro
bert GodDLoE-H/.RPE.tjOf South Carolina, to his
son2ituems. Ji:n« ad —§yt
PHILADELPHIA: MONDAY EVEsfrtfcf
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal.
i~HE Stocklio'clers rre icoucfted to attend a
Meeting to be held i t the Company's'Ofljce
on Monday, July 10th, at iq o'clock, a. m. pursu
ant toa. ! jourr«iefit.
Wm. Mooue Smith, Sfc'ry.
July 8- " dtmh
Health-Office, Philadelphia, rjth June, 17-97.
r j''HE Hoard if Beiiih oSer to renr cat the NHW
1 c;r, HQtmeM,, o&fy ;%
warn.
It maybe ocoupied as a Tatfern, for which there
are tycoilant accommodations. Ihe perfsn talcing
it mutt be capable and willing to aisl in the capaci
ty of a Steward ; •«> cafe a contagcous disease in
the city, fiiould at any time render it neceflary to
make use of it he precnifce asa Hospital. It cannot
therefore bs let for any limited time—and the red
nainted frame buildipg is to be refcrved. Proposals
in writing will be received at'this office, Hating
what rent will be allowed under the foregoing cir
cumfiances. None need apply without being able
to produce the best recommendations.
JOHN MILLER, Jun.
Chairman of the B*ard of Health.
July 8. \
Thefublime Theory of the celebrated
Franklin realised.
MR. MAISONj desirous to ihew his gratitude
to the refpeftable Companies who do him
the honor to be present every evening at the Phiio
fophical and Mcchanieal Experiment, executed by
three artificial persons, informs tfie lovers of arts
and ftiences, that THIS EVENING, the 7th inft
there will be a furprifirig addition to the Philoso
phical Experiments, which are so ably executed by
the artificial Lady: after thc.Cannons
di' Volta, melted metals through means of her in
flamed bread, &e. &c. (lie will Jiretf the
fire a building, which, being provided with a
pointed conductor, wilt remain perfe&ly but
having applied a metilic ball t-> the point, a second
Urokeof tht fire will fa 1 on the fame, and
deDroy it inftantaneouily. -
'I his difcoveiy alone is fufficient to insure to the
celebrated Franklin an undoubted right to the gra
titude of the public : it is in the country of this
great man that an European I'hilofophcr (who al
ready at Paris obtained marks of his esteem) will
repeat this beautiful experiment, before his worthy
fcl'ow citizen",in order to celebrate and honor the
memory of its author.
Thef- experiments will enntinue every Monday,
Wednesday, and Friday evenings, at 8 o'clock "re
cifely, in the dancing-rccra of Mr. M'DotroALL,
in Fourth-facet, between Chefnut and Walnut
ftreets, and will be varied and augmented.
Entrance half a dollar—Children, one quarter of
a dollar- July 7. —mwicftf
Bejl Englijh Crown Window Gtafs.
A well alTorted In7oiceofthe best Englilh Crown
Window Glass, of the following sizes:
xo by 8 1
II by 9
11 bv 10
, 14 by ,0 2,2
16 by II
19 by 14
Likewifc frelh Rice, high proof Brandy, best
mess Beef, in half barrels.
Sail Cloth, No. 1. to i.
Sherry Winfi.
A few hundred weight of excellent Du'ch Pifiol
•and Rifle Gun Powder—and, t
Thirty Boxes Chocohte.
, For Sale by,
&:mucl Bred, Jun.
No. 89, Sonth Tbirdflreet.
June 11. col at.
N O T I C E.
'"I 'HE fubferiber having Cent by the Chip Nancy,
Capt. Perry, the following certificated of the
United State* bask ftcck, to wit :
No. i6,oq>s> to 26,014, inclusive, for three
lharus each—and the laid vessel having been cap
tured on her intended voyage to England, wh ch
will moll probably occasion the loss of the said
certificates, gives this public notice,
That he shall apply at the proper offices for a re
newof them, ancf that means have been taker*
to prevent any improper transfer. .
Henry Philips,
v' No. iti,South Front-street.
June J. 3aw6w
POST-OFFICE.
Philadelphia, 6th J fly, '97.
THE mail for A e<w Cajilc, Ca it well's l/iidge,
Duck Creek cro/s toads, Doi'er, Fred'rica, Mil
ford, Geeh-ge Towr fin the lace of Cloives) and
Dagfborough, in Delaware ; Trap and Snow
hill, in Maryland ; Horn Town, Accomack C.
H. and Northampton C. H in Virginia ;
be closed every"Monday, Wednesday, and Fr 'day,
atfunfet. ißt
A Quantity of Brand v,
FIRST & ad proof,
Gin, of 4th proof, in pip's
Jamaica Spl its, proof, in Hhds
Old Hock, in cases of 4odoireneach
Glass Tumbler.", in pints and half-pints
Window GUi's, in boxes, of different li7.es
Hazlenuts, id Sicks-
Whiting
Copperas ( . ~ ,
Whi-eLead f ,n
& f'panilb Brown J
For Sale bv
PETER. BRIGHT.
fantiarv 4 si.
Rofs & Simfon,
Have for Sale >
A QUANTITY OF PRIME
St. Domingo Cotton,
Superior Old Liibon Wine in Pipes
Excellent India Market
Teneriffe Wine,
In Madeira Calks
A few Qnarier Cliefts best
Fresh Hylon and ) tcao
Hyson Skin j J fcAS
Muscovado Sugars in Hoglheads, and
Coffee in Tierces
March 7. ||tf
iirfkine's View of the YVar.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No 40 Sou:h Second street,
[Price 3.1 Cents]
A View of the Causes and Consequen
ces of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskini.
May 15 f
By John Fenno, N°- ii 9 Cbcfimi Street.
C A U T I o N.
■\TflIfcK2AS WILUAM Shannon, A&'i.
« v outer. lulls iii CUyjioole'j Aucrican
puny Advcnifei- qf tlils day-, a<*veri!Wfpr public
lale, on to,morrow the Sth uib.tr, a coital
ntiildiiij? Lot, on t£e jsorth si le of JJuliieVry
rtreer, between Slsth and Severnfe fltferfs. bound
ed .Vnd otficfu ij'e ilefciibeil as in ft jd adveu
tifemein is mentioned- —<Ui pcr/ons at hereby
cautipned not to pwebafe the as the eauit
>a'>: '.ilk thereto i«.veU;'J .v; tr .- 1 PreSd«t, D -
rr dors, and Company of the Kanfc: aft.he United
Statts, who mean to piutfed at law fat* the re
covery thereof.
By order of the Direi3ers,
George Simpfon, Cajhier.
J" 1 / 7-' '
The Commifiioners
carrying into effect thefixth article of tlie
X treaty of amitjr^commerce and navigation, con
cluded between hisßritannic majesty ana the Urited
States ot America, ©n the 19th day of November,
1794, having this day conltituted their Board,
pursuant and agreeably to the said treaty, do here
by give notice, that tlwy are ready to proceed to
bufiuefs accordingly; and they desire that all claims
under the said article (which so far as the fame de-
Icribes the cales thereby provided for, is hereunto
annexed) may be lodged with their Secretary with
out dday.
They further desire that all such claims may not
only state in what manner the several cases come
within the description of the said article, but atfo
specially set forth the nature of the evidence by
which the claimants refpeStively undertake tofnh*
l'tsuitiate the fame.
Ex!raft from the fu<f article,
" Whereas-i: i« alicdgcd by divers British mer
u chauta, and .ethers his majesty V fubje&s, th3t
debts to a ccofid-rablQ amount, which were bona
" fide contr.idlsd, before the peace, ftrll remain
" owing '<> them by cn>a«Ltor inhabitant of the
st \Jnite<i States; ani«h*t by *h* operannv ot v;>
* 4 rious lawful impediments, (ir»ce the peace, not
" only the full recovery of the said debts has been
delayed, but alfothe value and Security thereof
<c have been in fcvcral inftunces impaired and leff
if tned, so that by the ordinary course of judicial
<l proceedings, the British creditors cannot now
" obtain and a&ually have and receive full and
" adequate compensation for the losses and dama
" ges which tncy have thereby fufained: It is a
u greed that in all such cases where full compenfa
" tion for such losses an J damages cannot for what
" ever reason be a&ually obtained, had and recei
" ved by the said creditors in the ordinary courfr
" of justice, the United States will make full and
" complete compensation for the fame to the said
" creditors : but it is diftindly understood, that
" this provision is to extend to such lofffis only as
" have been occasioned by the lawful impediments
" aforefaid, and is not to extend to losses occasion
" ed by such infolvcncy of the debtors or other
" caufcs, would equally have operated to pro
" due? fucn loss, if the laid impediments had not
" exi/ted ; nor to furh losses or damages as have
•• been occasioned by the maaileft delay, or ncgli-
or wilful omilfion of the claimant?."
By order of the Board,
GRIFFITH EVANS,
Secretary,
Philadelphia, Commissioners* Office,
No. 3 fouthSixth-ftreet. May 29,
f 6—s tm
| Hfc SUBSCRIBER having been appointed by
JL the Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Pleui
potenpary of hu Britannic Majofty, General Agent
Ibr affixing Briiifh creditors, and luch particular a
gents as they rnay specially authorize, »n prosecuting
their claims before the cair.miflioners for carrying in
t9 efftft the sixth article 'of ihe Treaty of Amit'y % Com
uierceand Navigation between his Britannic kUjifty and
the United States of America, hereby gives no.W that
he h»s opened his office at hU Vioufe the south eall
coiner of Chefnut and fifth ft'ecu, Phi'.-delphia,
he is ready to receive a]l claim* or inHiuitions
lor claims with tHe vouchers aud documents thereof,
lor the purpose of b.t 'ging forward the Tame agree
ably lo the rules and oidera which Lire board may
rhink proper to prescribe.
And ai it will be for the intercft of all concerned,
1 hat the several claims be so (ia:ed, euvd fupporf.
<d, as to prevent the delay which would arile from
.he ncceilityof obtaining further in lor matron, or ad
ditional materia!!,from persons rending at adiUance,
Ihe general agent thinks it his duty to add, (for the
diiedlion chiefly of these, who. not having employ
ed particular agents, may leave the prosecution o|
their claims to his charge and management) that all
such claims ought in particular to fct torth —
»11. The proper defcrip ioo and fitnarion of the
creditor or claimant, end original debtor, refpcct
ively.
ad. The date or naiure of the original contract or
debt. '
3d. When, in what manner, and to what extent,
ihe creditor or claimant wis prevented or imneded,
by the provision, operation or defed ol l2w, the
dccifions ar»d praftice ol courts,'or restraint of «xe
cution, from recovering payment of the debt in
qucOion.
4th The loss and damage incurred or sustained,
in consequence of luch impediments, whether the
fame may have arisen Irom the infolveney, change of
(ituation, or death of the debtor, the loss of legal
remedy from !apfe of time, or other causes
the value and ffcurityof the debt, which would not
liave so operated if luch impediments had notexilted.
And ,51b. The particular grounds and. reaiens on
which the claimant maintains, in the terms of the
treaty, that " by the ordinary course of judicial pro
ings, the creditor cannot now obtain and actually
have anc) receive full and adequate cdmpenfatioft'' for
the roffes and damages so fuflatucd.
| The general agent thinks it his duty further to fug-
I geft that the fcvera! claims ought to be accompanied
and fnpported by the affidavits'of the claimants duly
sworn and regularly attefler!, both as to theex-.'fence
of the debts claimed, and such other circamlhnces
as may be within their own knowledge relpeftively.
And wherever the claimants in (lacing the nature of
their evidence (which, inuffc in every infbrnce be the
best of which tnfc cafe is capable) have occa&oii to
'refer to the tellimouy of witi.effes, il vill be proper
to apprise the general agent of the natnes and places
of residence of such witnefTcs and theta£bto be esta
blished by their teftimOny.
Wm. Moore Smith.
Philadelphia, June Bth, 1797. dim
For Sale,
That well known place, called F'akdsgrift's
f s r r v,
ON Nefliamiiiy creek, i!T miles from Phila
ladelphia, on the New York post read,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
premises are a large two ftmy house occu
pied asatvern, and a good one flory ftonc kit
chen, a large frame liable svith a good rhrelhing
floor, apd some out btfildings--a!fo a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
this'place is a tnolt elegant {ituation fora gentle
man's feat, commanding a view of the fvtlham
iny to its jundlion wiih the Delaware, and thence
across to the Jfcrfey (bore. It has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
For terms to the Sr.bfcriber,
MCmftECAI LEWIS.
IV,I y za : 3t
, JULT
io, 17-7
STATE TRIALS,
Sold by W. YouNrc, No. ja, South Se
cond-'lfccr,
The Pehnfylvania State Trials,
CONtiL'Hj ths impeachmeat, trial,'and acqiilt..
al of Hoplins,.Judge of the Court of
Admiralty, and John Nicholfoa, Corap'.roMer Gcii
erai—--In one large S *O. vol. Prite-, in hoards, j
doii.irs.
W. Yot'Nc "his for sale, a general afTortniett of
Ai: >, S'.•••;.>!><«*; retail a««i ky the prick
age, w'ell afforteil, and entitled to the d'rawhick if
mnnrsV 1 -
From on board schooner Dapline, captain.
G. W. Morse, from Htfpaniola,
6 1,00s wt. .Sugar,
53,000 Coffee
FOR SALE BY
F. COPPINGER,
No. 221, South Front-street,
/Who has also on hand,
Claret in hhds. and cases
Rice
A quantity ofßriftol Bottles
A cafe of Cambrics
Cloths ancl Caflimeres. ;
July 5- [ d6t.
FOR SALE,
BRF.TAGNES in cases
German Checksin do.
Cambrick
PlattilFas
Ozmbrirs
. Gold and fiiverWatch.es
Window Glass to by 8
Glass Tumblers in cases-
Linfced Oil in cilks, &c. &c.
George Pennock y
103, High-Stt&t.
l ut y S- yw
Bank of United States.
id July, 1797.
THE DireiSors have this day declared a Divi
dend ef Sixteen Dollars on each {hare for the lail
fix months j which will be paid to the Stockhold
ers after the 13th inft.
G. SIMPSON, Cq/iier
3t
NOTICE.
ANY of the citizens who may be inclined to ao
commodate Members of Congress with beard
and lodging during the nextfeflion, willpleafe
to forward their address, as soon as poflible, to the
fubferiber, at Congress Hall—Whs also wilhesto.
hear of some ready furnifhed lodgings, with the
use of a ki'chcß. Likewise of a front drawing
room, well furnifhed, and two good bed rooms,
with board for a small family, in which there will
be twofervants. THOMAS CLAXTON.
Tulv .?■ y
The Commiflioners
FOR carrying into effe& the TWENTY-FIRST
Article of the Treaty of Friendlhip, Limits,
and Navigation, betwean His Catholic Majesty
and the United States of America, hereby give in
formation to all Persons therein oonccrned,—That,
in order to terminati all differences* on account of
the lefles fuftaincd by the Litizens of the United
States, in conference of tbeir VefTels and. Car
goes having taken by the Subjeds of His emb
olic Majefly, during the late War between Spain
and France, that they arc ready to receive (at their
Office, between the hours of ten and one o'clock,
daily) all complaints and applications, authorized
by the laid Article, during Eighteen Months
irom the day c£ the dafe hereof, and that they have
power to examirle all such perlons as come before
/hem, jn oath or afFirhiation, touching the com
plaints in question, and alio to receive in evidence,
all written teftimory, authenticated iji fach man
ner as they (hall think proper to require or admit.
By Order of the CommiJfvMers,
PETER LOHRA,
Secretary.
C mmiffinners Office, Ao. Mulberry
recti Philadelphia, May i?tb, 1797.
20—$4W
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBfUOGE with much pleas
ure and re(pe&, returns ht_r sincere ac
knowledgement for the liber*! encouragemeKt
she has received during four years reftdence is
i ontt b4uf«« tier -friends And the
public, so far from intending to decline her
ichool, she has made a fupenor arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars.—Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groombridge and mailers excelling in tbeir
refpeijlive profelTio^s.
Corner of Spruce Snd Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797. • simftf
The situation is perfeiflly healthy ; and made
more agreeable by an extenfivfc garden and lot
of ground adjoining the houl'e.
Nathaniel Lewis &' Son,
Have for sale at tbeir Jiore, No. 70, adjoining
Ge?rge Latimer & Son, P'me-Jlreet Wharf,
A Quantity of
Madeira Wines
In pipe? and half pipes
adeira Walnuts and Citron, lately imported
in the fchoontr Sincerity, Capt. Copia
Also,
15 Puncheons, second and third proof, /fefl-
India Rum, and a. few Pipes of Brandy
They have conflantly on hand and for fale>
French Burr and Coun-ry Mil! Stones of various
sizes, and a general aflortment of Boultiug Vhtbs of
the best quality, both American ancl Foreign'ma
nufa<sUire. Ihe former having proved, from fe
veral years experience of a pumber of millers in
different parts of the United b'tates at l'eafl equal,
and in many instances superior to the Europen
Cloths, we hope the- manufacturer, Robert DaV. r
son, will meet with liberal encouragement in this
important and ufeful undertaking. He has obtain
ed a patent nnd exclusive right of making and
vending Bonking Cloths on his improved plan for a
number «f y ears, and tl cy are lold only by him
felf in Lanpafher, ftatc cf Pennsylvania, and by
the fubferibers in Philadelphia.
June 14 &
For Sale,
THE time of a fmarf, a&ive Negro Boy, who
has about fixtec'n years to fcrve.
■ ' Apply to the Printer.
June 30. Si l
<*n lUKSDAY evening ne:;:,_t!ie jith inlt.
wi l he by public audliori, ,~i the Mer
chants Cofir<hi>uß for account or the con-*
rerneri, being deposited as collateral security,
Sundry PromiP'ory Notes,
by Jcbr. Nirholfor: in' 'favour of, and
mdoricd by David Allifoii. The Hud notes are
5.1 due and have been regularly protested . or non
payment. I hey have been originally given for
a lull und valuable tonfidei-ation—are clear of
any difpme or defalcation and will be received
cquun, i h< ;i C far ftiau* ia the Pumfylvanta
Land Company and will of courie be a great
abjeel ps fpeenlatton.
Approved endorsed notes at, sixty days will be
Received in payment.
July 6, t70 7 . *«ct
Town Lots.
ArCA'N named BEUTA, one mile square,
being laid Wit on the Biacldick Greet, Som
trfet County, peunlylvams, Lots therein ol jg feet
by 125 feet are now lellmgat ♦#» fiOtLuis each ;
their lituatior. in the town to be determined by
ballot before the full of Augutt, and d.eds fu r ,h e
fame will be deliver* by the iuUcnber before rhe
firft of October next.'
. MORGAN J. RHEES.-
N->. 77, touth Second-ltreet, fmlacc.phia.
The purcjfcfers of lots in Bevla have the following
profpeds of appreciating their property ;
X- It is remcU 11-om ajiy other town, and Sir
rounded by great bodies ot excellent land, capable
of producing every kind of -rain and viable.,
and is Without douliton.e ef tee bsit graz.rvr conn-
I tries in die United States.
2. In point o health the fnuation is not exceed
ed, by any on the continent
3. B elides numerous lprings and runs, of the fin
eft quality, .hire is a creek for water -4*nUs (oii
which cntii artnow building) running through the
town,- "
4 The public road fr6nl rbiladdphu. t» F«tf
burgh will gj through it, wt.icfc bcuit more Itvel
and neiretfflaa any other rout must become uni
versally traTeHed-T-milcd by the navigation of Ju
niata and Conemaugh, goods may be cunreyed at
lead 2 or 3 dollars pet cvrt. cheaper from the ior
mer to the latter place, than by the old road thro'
Bedford.
5. Being in the centre of a fleurilhing settle
ment, and taking in the shortest portage Betwe a
the eaflern and western waters, it is likely ro bt
conie a dej ofit for itores, a mar.u Vauring town
and a feat of justice. Besides the old frttlers, up'
wards of one hundred emigrants have fettled in tfee
vicinity of Beufa, since last Oaober, and many
more have engaged to join them this summer.
6. A Land-Office for fupptying adual fettlcrs
with farms to a considerable amou .t, and 111 vari
ous fltuations, will be immediately opened in the
town. The proprietors of land in the circumja
cent country ar* falic.ted to fend their drafts and
terms of sale, or leaiing, to Thomas Jones, Sur
veyor, in Beula, who will give security for any
trull reposed in him : with such co-operating aid,
the progress of the settlement will be the more ra
pidly advanced and extended to dilHnt'townfhips.
7. A public library for the benefit of the settlers,
will be eftablilhed in the town, towards laying the
loundation of which, upwards of one thousand
volumes are already purchased and principally sent
forward.
8. Two hundred acres of land adjoining the
town, besides lots and fubferiptions, will be applied
to lupport a mini Her and preceptor, capable of
teaching the ufeful and liberal arts.
9. After 1 defraying neccfTiry expences, the mo
ney arising from the prdent Tales will be laid out in
jiublic buildings—A -place of .worlhip, febool
houfsand library rogm.arethe firft objects.
la. Every profeflional man and mechanic, on
condition of building a house with a stone or brick
chimney, and reeling in it, before the firft of No
vember next, will be entitled to lour lots gratis,
free forever from ground rent. Five and ten acre
out lots may likewise be obtained on rcafonable
'terms.
*#* The two central streets in Beula are too
feet wide, and the others 80 ftct. Reserved fquarcs
ond ether accommodations must add to the health
and beauty of the piace.
J"')'6 ■ 5t
boarding and Lodging
FOR (ingle gentlemen may be had at No.
114, Sixth-street, corner of Race.
Some apartments to bf let at the above place.
July 6. *at.
Jult Received,
From Balavia (via Providence)
170 Sacks of Java,Ccff..e of firft quality
iOi half fjeks do. do.
a few Boxes of Spices, ccr.Sfting of
Nutmegs, Cloves and Mace - -
For sale by
IVILUNCS & FK4XCIS,
Penn»ftreet.
_ M " Y ** tf
Now Landing,
/ft Pratt's tuharf,
FROM on board the (hip Thomas Clulkley,
Capt. Rafer, from lio'jn.'eaux,
CLARET in calks
Ditto in cases
White Wine Vinegar
Red Skins in boxe3
For Sale by
Rtuicile bf Leech. '
Mav t < • f
To be Sold,
A large and convenient
Three Story Brick House ;
SITU >TE at the north-east corner of Arch and
Fourth-Greets. It contains eighteen rooms—
and is in every refpe<st well finiftied. For particu
lars enquire of
M. Kcppele,
No, 138, Chefnut-Ttreet.
May 31. §
Just Imported,
In the fliip Rebecca, from St* Croix,
Prime Sugar and Run
vt of Windward Island CcJffoe
A quantity of choice Madeira Wine.
James Yard\
South fide Walnut ftrtet Wharf;
June 27. t!6t
Wiii be Landed,
From onboard the {hip Aiftive, Capt 3lair.ironi
Hambiiieh,
20 bales white Rulfia ciean Hemp
% calks Clover Seed
For Sale by
Tboy as Herman Leuffer,
North Fifth street, Jio. 34.
Jure J(
[Vm.vME y 11DOCUMENTS t
Accomj?ahyittgthe Secretary at War's Rip aft. 'j
{No. xvi.;) „
Fri&' Lieutciiant Pic'rcy Pcpe to Don Matiuel c
Gayofo de l.anos, daieH Gamp-, eth Mayt c
1797. <1
I RECEIVED yoiir letter by fciptain
Min6r, requelling of me to be informed n
\vhefhef I had politive ofdei's for theoobje- t ,
tions I made in reply to Jour letter .of the tl
lirlt fnftS'ntJ I haVe no official information f
From the United States of any pending ne- "
gociations that refpeds the late Treaty, and
eonfeqaently have every reason to suppose
that the United States consider the Treaty ,]
earned into ef.'eft as far as refpefts the eva- £
cuktidn of the Ports on the east fide of the' a
Mississippi, above the 3 lit degree, north n
Latitude, and therefore conclude that any' "
I'einforcefnentS or additional works will have "
a tendency to disturb that harmony which at j (
present happily prevails between the two na- t ]
ti<pns, and which I am directed to culti- U
vate. o
You told me yesterday that yoil had re- f'
ceived information from a gentleman, that I c
intended to attack the garrison at this place.
I now request that you will discover the t]
author, that he may have it in his power to p
acquit himfelf of this afTertion, or be brought b
to ;'nat just tribunal, a crime of so heinous a v
nature merits, as the informer has been P
guilty" of. ''
I am with confidcration,
your very humble fefvant, .
PIERCY S. POPE, Lieut. Artillery. h
Comdg.'U. S. Troops Mississippi- d
[No. XVII.] . b
From Don Manuel Gayojb de Lemos to
Lieutenant Piefcy Pope dated Natchez, 6th £
May*, 1797. j!
I RECEIVED your letter dated the
sth instant, delivered me by Lieutenant a
John IVfCktry, in reply mine of the 3d, tl
by which, and by our conferences, I am ''
persuaded of your disposition t,o cultivate P
that good harmony that is justly dup to ouf
nations. On my part I pledge my honour g
to you that I shall invariably continue con- a i
fidering you not only as Ido every individu- o:
al of your nation, but yet more particularly tl
under the sacred view of its Representatives, | ™
as jikewife every person under your com r J"'
mand, and under the direction of the Hon-
ourable Andrew Ellicott. 1,
I do afltire you likewise, that my conduft ! tc
shall be such, as not to merit the reflection of ( St
your nation, nor cxpofe mine to any contest ' n
on account thereof; being answerable by j v
my duty, and by. my honour, to adl with '
such propriety as will juflify me in my pub- tr
lie capacity.
With fegard to the person tkat gave the di
information, that in my familiar conversation bt
I communicated to you, mufl be despised, 01
and other discountenanced both by you, 01
and by me, as our situations are sacred, and J.J
only fubjeft to the alterations unammoufly
agreed upon by our nations.
I have the honour to be, of
with the highest consideration P'
Your mo ft humble obedient servant, ' n
MANUEL GAYOSO DE LEMOS. cr
[No. XVI I ] J c
It the intercepted letter from Blount to Carey.
WAR-OFFICE, June 30th, 1797. E d
I HAVE compared the foregoing Do
cuments, numbered from 1 to 18 inclusive, be
and do certify the fame to be true extra£ts
and copies from the records and files of this * !l
office. ?
JOHN STAGG, Jun.
Chief Clerk. ra
« th
yIDDITION A L REPORT m
OF THE SFCRKTARV OF STATF, F
To the Prefidfnt of the United States, of the pro- ai
ceedir.gs of the offers of his Catholic Majefiy, p<
in relation to the po/ls occupied by Us troops fii
tusitbin the limits vf the United States, the fii
koundarv line, and other matters therewith ai
connected. ai
ON Thursday last, the 19th rif June, I re- ft;
ceived farther dispatches from Andrew El .u tt, g<
Esquire, the comroiffioner of the United States
at the Natchez, dated the tenth of May last, of n<
which an extra& and copies, numbered one, two, cc
and three, are subjoined. By thel'e it appears fe
that a new motive has been afligned by (Jie com- la
mander in chief, the Baron de CarcndeTet, and fe
Governor Gayofo, for ftitt retaining the poflefEon
of the ports of the Natchez and the Walnut
Hills, and for strengthening the fortifications;
viz. to guard againjl an attack by the Britijh
from Canada. This motive being derived from
information communicated to the Baron do Car- „
ondelet by the Chevalier de Yrujo, the minister
«f his Catholic Majesty to rhe United States, i'
appears neceflary again to bring before the Pre
sident my, correspondence with the Spanish and
Britilh ministers on that fubjefl. These papers
are numbered 4,5, 6, 7, 8, and 9. w
Although the minister declared he had just pc
reasons for fufpedHng an expedition from Cana- te
da, was preparing by the British against the up- U
per pofls of Louisiana, yet he never mentioned th
a single fail or reason on which his suspicion was to
founded. From allexifling circumstances I ever te;
believed the suspicion to be groundfefs.-'-Aml the 'e l
note of Mr. Lifton, the British miniftert, of the bu
19th of the last month, declares that no such ex- ve
pedition has been or is intended, by the Britilh in
government.
On the 16th of March last, by the President's si*
direction. I enquired of the minister of his Ca- in
tholic Majesty whether the Spanish troops had
been withdrawn, agreeably to the treaty, from P r
the territory of the United States ; and if not, pe
what orders or measures for withdrawing them of
had been taken To this the minister answered, of
on the 17th, of April, that not having for some be
i»iontbs heard from the fiaron-de Carondelet, fie tic
was " deprived of any information touching the fe'
Jleps taken for the execution of the treaty."
Nevertheless he had previouflv informed the Ba- fr<
ron dc Carondelet of his suspicions of a projected tli
expedition from Canada ; for on the firft of May
it is offered by Governor Gayofo, as a new rta- : so
foil for continuing to hold the posts. These two 1 gr
letters are numbered 10. 11. [ to
On the 14th of June last; the minister of his , Sf
Catholic Majesty wrote me the letter number ia, u;
in which he undertakes togive the substance of toi
t\y" letters from the f iron de Carondelet, and th
which about a week before lie had orally tnmf- pi'
lated to me from the Spanifti originals These en
letters (as appears by the .let Ail of them now gi- to
veil by the minister) exhibited divers complaints nu
against Mr Ellicott, whose conduct is a&gned a s j
1_ t.ife cauft of an a,ieJge<i be
tween him and Governor Gayofo; and fit' the
delay in the running of ii»e boun
dary line.
One article, however, tlie miuifhr has omit
ted ili his recital-. The Baron dt Carondelet
" complained, among other things, that Mr. lilii-
H cott had not given hen notice of his arrival at
the Natchez, as the comnJiHionf r on the pari of
the United States, for running the boundary line
„ between their territories and those of Spam. I
, was afton ; fhed at this complaint, as I had then ly
ing on my table a copy, of Mr. Eliicott's letter
to the Baron, dated the 27th jof February, only
ic three days after Mr. Eliicott's arrival at the
in Natchez, announcing his arrifal a* the eommil
»_ fiwntr of the United States for th* objctSt above
() exprtffed, and two copies of the Baron's answer,
dated at New-Orleans, the firft of March ? one
of the original Spanish, and other a tranfla
) tion in English, acknowledging the receipt of Mr.
J -■ Eliicott's letter, and " congrajqjating hiro on hi 9
le arrival in that country in the character otf com
h mifiioner on {fie part of the United States." I
y- immediately presented these copie.< to the mini
,e " er > in whom the repugnance of fail to assertion
excited the natural feufation: but soon rectlledl
ing himfclf, he made this apology for the.Baron,
]' 'hat hefuppofedhe did not coilfiderMr. Eliicott's
1- letter as official I This Icttcrand the translation
of the Baron's anfw'er, have been already laid be
j. fo.e Congress and published : I now subjoin the
j copy of the Baron's answer in Spanish. No. 13.
The facls I have heTe Hated, relative to the
complaint of the Baron de Carondelet, which
le the Ppanifh minister has offiitted in his detail, ap
-0 peared to me important to be laid before you, to
it be ccnfidered together with the other complaints
a which the minister has recited. As to the cora
n plaint that Mr. Ellicott " attempted to get pos
session of the Natchez Yqrt by surprize, and that
the Governor Gayofohas in his power documents
which evidently prove the intention of that at
tempt," I haveexamined the two gentlemen who
'• have brought Mr. Eliicott's difpatchts' and they
I- declare that they never heard of such an attempt
beingmadeer intendedby Mr.Ellicott; and that
< 0 fofar from exciting diflatisfa£lion to the Spanish
government, in tne minds of the inhabitants at
the Natchez, he uniformly recommended pa
tience and fubmiflion, until the Spar.ilh jurisdic
tion (hould be withdrawn.
e Upon a view of the whole correspondence now
t and before submitted to the President, it appears
I, that the governors of his Catholic Majesty, on
n the MifTifipi, have, on various pretences, poft
t poned the running of the boundary line, and the
withdrawing of his troopt from the posts they
occupied within the territory of the United
r States: That after repeated overtures, promises
- and appearances of commencing the execution
- of the treaty between the two nations, in both
j those refpedh, their condudl demonflraies, that
t I for an indefinite period they mean to avoid doing
either: That there i> but too much reason to be
lieve Mr. Eliicott's suspicions well founded, that
an undue influence has been over the
Indians by the officers »f .his Catholic Majesty,
t to prepare them for rupture with the United
f | States; thofefufpicions cprrefponding with other
1 intelligence recently received by the Seiretary of
, i War and by me. Mine is by a private letter from
j | Colonel Sargent, the Secretary of the territory
northwest of the river Ohio, of which an x ex
trait, No. 14, is annexed.
Whether this plan of exciting the Jndians to
i direct hostilities against the United States, has,
1 been contemplated and promoted by any of our
f own citizens, it may be difficult to fay ; but that
one or more of those citiiens have proposed and
j taker, measures to detach the southern Indians
from the interests of the United States, and to
destroy the influence of the public agents over
those nations, and thus to defeat the great objefls
of their appointment, the chief of which is to
preftrrve peace, is certain. The evidence of this
important faift will be laid before you by the Se
cretary of War. That evidence having a refe
rence to the Britilh Minister, and his government,
I took the liberty of addrefling to him a letter,
• dated the ift instant, ( No, IJ,) to which 1 receiv
ed ;9e answer, No. 16.
At closely connected with this business, I lay
, before you the copy of my letter, No. 17, dated
s the 27th of April laft,to Charles Jackson, Esquire,
. the Diftrill Attorney of Georgia, Reciting a pas
sage in a letter from the Spanish Minister, dated
the aiftof April, declaring his pofitiveknowledge
that the English had made proportions to Gene
ral Clarke, of Georgia to obtain his influence in
that state, in conjunction with some persons who
might make a diversion or serious attack against
Florida. By Mr. Jackson's answer, from which
- an extrail. No. 18, is herewith presented, it ap
, pears, that after diligent enquiry, he could not
s find any person that knew any thing of the bu
e Gnefs, or that entertained a belief of the kind ;
b and that from General Clarke's known violent
antipathies to the English, and other circum
- fiances, he doubted the truth of the report alto
, gether.
s On the 30th ult. I received a letter from Ge-,
f neral Piuckney, dated the 9th of May, which
, contains the latest intelligence from him, and
s seems proper to accompany the other papers now
- laid before you. His letter, No. 15, therein re
-1 ferred to, has not yet eometo hand.
1 All which Is rrfjn-dtfully ftibrntttted.
t TIMOTJSY PICKERING.
; Department of State, July 3d, 1797.
> . 1
> [No. I.J
ExtraS of a letter from Andrew Ellicott, Esq.
r commifjioner of the United States, to the Secre
tary bf State, dated, Natchez, May 10, 1797.
| SIR,
1 SINCE my difpatJies by Mr. Knox, the
whole of the Spanish 4fommifison for the pur
l pose of running the boundary lines between the
. territory of his Catholic Majesty, and tlat of the
. United Sta'es has afrived ; but notwithstanding
I this circumstance, I fee no appearance of getting
1 to business in any reafouabW time : various pre
tences are resorted to by the Baron de Cupnde
let, and Governor Gayofo, to juflify the aelay ,
but the true reason, I am well persuaded, hasne
. vet* yet been made known to myfelf, or to the
1 inhabitants ef the diftriil of Natchez, who are
generally very uneasy, and many of them con
i fider t'hejr situations as desperate if not lupported
. in a few months by the United States.
1 As the arrival of the whole Spanish commission
1 produced no effc<£l favorable to our business, I ex
, pedled that of Lieut. Pope, with a detachment
1 of about forty troops, which happened the 24th
, of last month, would make some change for the
; better—in this I have been disappointed. Addi
; tional labourers werefet to work in the fort, and
several more pieces of artillery mounted.
' On the firft of this month I received a letter
. from Govtrnor Gayofo, a copy of which, with
I the answer, you will find inclosed.
On Sunday last, the fort at this place was rein
forced by about forty men, and a company of
1 grenadiers are on their way, and hourly expeded
to join them. Yesterday Mr. Gillimard, the
Spanish surveyor, an engineer, and several other
, military officers, with a boat-load of entrenching
: tools, left this place sos the Walnut IlilJs, where
1 the works are to be immediately put into a com
• plcra state of defence. The la-murers who were
• employed by the direflion of Governor Gayofo
to go 1 n the line, are now ordered to the Wal
nut Kills to assist in repairing the fortifications.
: If the court cf Madrid has any design of car
-1 '
I r ?'WR the Ltetrclfy witii the tJnitfi States into
i effeel, the conduit of the Baron tie Carondelet
; and Governor Gayol'o is to me altogether ine l *-
| plicable : AH their nuafurcs have the appearance
of apprcaahing hostility ; and from lome infor
mation which I have lately received from a source
to which I cannotavoid giving a degree ofcredit,
but a (hort poriad wid elapse before we fliall be
ordered to leave this place', if not the cotintry.
I ha ye in a form:;r communicrvon mentioned my
fufpic ions, that an undue influence has been ex
ercifi-d over the Indians to prepare them for a
rupture with the United States, and to awe
into a quiet fuumifiion the inhabitants, of this'
diftriil, who are at their mercy. lam furry,
that no has yet occurred to make
me change this Opinion.
Immediately upon Mr. Pope's arrival, he was
joined by ensign M'Clary, who, commands my
escort, which conflfts of about thirty-seven men,
and ail with me. We now make a
cefpedlable ..ppcaranee—the men are in good
health, and well cloathed, and the ftriileft dii'ci
pline is cbferyd by the whole camp. Lieut.
Pope has hitherto jcondu&ed himfelf in such a
manner as to give general fatisfadlion to the
neighbouring inhabitants, without incurring the
displeasure of the present governor, or his offi
cers,'and at the fame time supported the honour
of the United States ; but he has unfortunately
been indisposed almost ever since his arrival.
I am, fir, with great eflam, &c.
' ANDREW ELLICOTT.
Secretary of State, United States.
[No. ll]
. [ls the fame <witb No.Xllt. of the Secretary at
War's Refortt published on Saturday.]
[No.-:II.j
From Andrew Elluott, to his Excellency Manuel
Gayofo de Lemos.
Natchez, May id, 1797.
Sir,
YOUR excellency's favour of yesterday is now
before me, but as it principally concerns the com
manding officer of the troops of the United States
in this quarter, who I presume will give you a fa
tisfadlory answer, it wiil therefore be unnecefla
ry for me to riiake any remarks upon it.
In a former communication you were apprized
of my determination to remain at this place until
we proceed to running oftheline, or are recalled
by the executive of the United States.
V am, 4cc, &c.
ANDREW FLLICOTT.
His Excellency Mahucl Gayofo de Lemos.
[No. IV.]
Sir,
THREE days ago I declared to you the just
reasons which I had for fufpefling that an expe
dition was p.eparmg on the lakes, on the part of
the Englilh, the objeft of which is to attack Up
per Louisiana, and take by furffrife the ports of
St. Louis and New-Madrid. The proofs which
I have since been able to obtain, confirm me in
my suspicion, that the English troops, who me
ditate this coup de main intend to descend the
Miffiflippi by Fox river, Oniconfin, or by the
Illinois, or other parts of the territory of the
United States. I suppose the government of this
couatry toojealoui of its rights to fuffer so scan
dalous a violation of its territory ; but having al
ways in view the interests of the king my matter,
and the security of his poflcfiions in this part of
the world, in his name I that in
Tirtue of the information cited, this government
may take the measures neceflary for preventing
th.e passage of foreign troops, of what defecti
on soever, over its territory.—An undertaking in
which are united the dignity of the United States
and the security of the poffefiioits of a friendly
natioD, allures me beforehand that the adminis
tration of this country will take the mealures
which (hall he most adapted to this end.
With these rrafonsl offer myfelf to your dif- j
pofal, and pray Ciod to preserve you many years.
Your Most obedient humble servant,
CHARLES MARTINEZ de YRUJO.
Philadelphia, id of March 1797.
[ 7b be concluded in our next. ]
CONGRESS.
HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES,
Thursday, July 6.—Continued.
Mr. Nicholas declared, he was as rea
dy to aft upon the bufineTs as any person in
the house, and gave as much credit to the :
charge. He wilhed to probe the bulinefs to
the bottom. He thought they should en
quire whether there was not another person
equally culpable with William Blount—he
meant the minifter.
He suggested the propriety of deferring
the whole bufmefs till next session, as he did
not fee any advantage that would be derived
from determining upon it at present, except
it were by making an example of the offend
er. He supposed there would be no danger
of his escaping ; and if he were to escape,
he did not know that it would make any
can£dcrable difference as the only punish- ;
ment which could be inflifted upon him,
would be a difqualification from office.
Mr. Gallatin said this fubjeft was al
together new to him. He never had turn
ed his mind to the constitutional question
with relation to impeachment before this
morning. Of course, what he should fay,
would be more in the shape of queries than
of any thing else, as he had not formed any
decisive opinion upon it. He was not,
therefore, ready to vote upon the fubjeft,
but merely wilhed to submit his doubts to
the eommittee.
It had struck him upon a cursory view of
the constitution, that whatever might have
been tHe extent to which impeachment was
Carried m England, by our constitution, im
peachment in this country must be limited
to the officers of government alone. He had
derived this idea from the two following
clauses in the constitution, viz.
" The President, Vice-President, and all
civil officers of the United States, fliall be
removed from office, on impeachment for,
and conviftion of, treason, bribery, or other
high crimes and mifdemeano'rs." 1
" Judgment, in. cases of impeachment,
fliall not extend further than to removal from
office, and difqualifidation to hold and en
joy any office of honor, trust, or profit, un
dertime United States. But the party con
vifted fliall, nevertheless, be liable and fub
jeft to indiftment, trial, judgment, and pun- -
ifhment, according to law."
It appeared from these clauses, that where
ever an officer of government committed an
offence upon which a judgment of impeach
ment should be had, he wa? also liable to in
diftment according to law, as the extent of
punifliment from an impeachment was a re
moval from office, apd a difqualification to
in future any office of honor, trust, or
profit, in the United States. He did not
think the cafe of Dr. Sacheverell in point.
It was his opinion that by the constitution
officers of the government only were intend
ed to be impeached, and not members of
the legislature. •
His tolleague had given it as his opinion,
that a member of that house might be im
peached for his vote, if bribery could be
proved, though the constitution expressly
declares, that no member shall be question
ed Out of the house for any tiling he may
do in his charafter as a legislator. He sup
posed this clause was meant to prevent any
interference of the Executive ; but if a man
were to be called in question for a vote,
though not for a speech, the privilege which
he had always understood that they enjoy
ed, would be greatly narrowed. It ap
peared to him that the appropriate punilh
ment for offences committed within those
walls was expulsion ; and that impeachment
: could not apply to them.
•An argument had been adduced in favor
. of impeachment of a S nat j, from that bo
dy's having free access to the executive re
cords. This assertion was not correft ; as
he recollected a cafe iti which the Senate
Applied to the President for certain papers,
which, if they had had free access to his re
cord, they would not have had occasion to
have requested. He also recollefted that the
request was only granted in part. He be
lieved indeed that feme Senators, as that
feme members of that house, might, by
special favor of the secretary of state, have
access to this record ; but he believed it
might be refufed to the members of either
house.
It was said this offence was the feduftion
of an officer of the government. He knew
nothing of the offence ; but he saw no rea
son why the offence should be greater be
cause committed by a Senator. He knew
not whether this Carey, an Indian inter
preter, was an officer nominated by the
President, and approved by the Senate. He
knew nothing of the faft. It was therefore
necessary to have feme further information
on the fubjeft. ,
With relation to the letter itfelf, it was
of a very serious nature, so serious, that
though he conceived it fearcely ripe for le
gislative enquiry, he thought it called for
Itrift executive enquiry. He thought they
should know something of the faft that the
letter was William Blount's. It was nothing
less than a conspiracy between a number of
men in the United States and the British
government. He said a number of men, be
cause the letter mentions a captain Chef
holm, who held the correspondence with the
British minister at Philadelphia last winter,
so that at least two officers of government
were acquainted with the plan. [He read
an extraft from the letter.]
It appeared, therefore, that a most serious
plan had been laid, in which captain Cjief
holm was a partner, and made the instru
ment to confer with the British minister ;
that a man of feme consequence was gone
to England, and that the design was an at
tack upon the Spaniards in America ; so' that
the plan, if carried into effeft, must involve
us in a war with tjiat nation. This plan,
Mr. G. said, had been fufpedted by the
Spanifli minister at Philadelphia, who has
addressed our Executive more than once up
on the fubjeft ; and also by thev ministers of
France and Spain at Charleston, who, in
order to meet the atuck, had purchased all
the arms and ammunition they could meet
with, and sent them to Augustine.
How far the legillature should go into the
business, or whether it Ihould be left to the
executive, he did not know. At firft, he !
thought the fubjeft wholly of an executive
. nature.
Mr. G. observed, that what he had de
livered were mere curfoiy thoughts. He
should with to hear the fubjeft difeuffed, as
,he should attend more to the arguments of
gentlemen in that house, than to the ppini
ons of legal authority. So far as to the le
gality of the question, they were certainly
better judges than he ; but as the power of
impeachment was committed to that house,
they certainly ought to judge for themselves.
He mentioned this, because he thought the
answer of theie legal gentlemen very curious,
" that the letter <was evidence of a crime ; that
this crime ivas a misdemeanor ; and that it is
liable to impeachment." When the President
alked advice what he should do, the answer
seemed to be a direftion to that house, what
they should do ; and this was advice unasked.
Perhaps, however, the answer given to them
was only partial. He wished, if it could
be done with propriety, that the . business
might be postponed till the next session.
He ur.derftood that the gentleman supposed
to have taken his feat in the Senate this day.
As to expelling him from his feat, that
might be done now, and when that done, it
would prevent him from doing any further
harm. s The difqualification might take
place at the next session as well as the pre
sent.
Mr. I}ana said, that the firft impression
upon his nu'nd were, that a Senator was not
impeachable ; but, upon farther inquiry, he
had found reason to doubt his opinion.
He asked whether a power could be im
peached for any offence, which was not a
violation of official duty. He thought this
was clear by the constitution. A judge was
certainly a civil officer, yet, if he were guil
ty of treason against the United States,
" by levying war against them, or adhering
to their enemies, giving them aid and com
fort," this would be no breach of official
duty, and yet he might certainly be impeach
ed for the offence.
Another enquiry was, whether members
of the legislature were officers, in the sense
of the constitution. This was an enquiry
of great importance.
' The right of impeachment, seemed to be I
a right clearly political—it was a right in
government to protest itfelf, by displacing
from her councils men who were faithlefs
and unworthy. Taken in this view, the
reason of the thing seemed strongly to apply
to the members of the legislature.
With refpeft to a k'giflater being a civil
officer. He would ale whether, if a man
was displaced from a civil office, he would
be eligible to be eicfted as a member of the
legislature. 1 liis would be an absurd con
cluflon, unless.it fhoiild be said that to be
elected to such a was neither to be
in a place of honor, trust, or nrofit.
Another clause of the coflftitution faid—
that no title of nobility shall be granted ;
and rio person holding any office of profit
or trust, shall accept of any present, emolu
ment, office, br title of any kind
from any king; prince, or foreign state
Aiig it was not meant to be said, that
our officers were not to be allowed to receive
emoluments, &c. the members of the legisla
ture were not forbidden to do it. This
would be strange doctrine. »
He would submit to the committee what
he conceived to be their duty. He thought
the house should be fully fatisfied of the faftj
but if there was any doubt as to the flagran
cy of the offence, or the liability of the per
son to be thus tried, these doubts should te
left to the decision of the Senate, as the pre
per constituted authority.
As to the enquiry relative to fads. The
committees did not conceive that that en
quiry ought to extend to a foreign minister.
They had nothing to do with him. He
did not come within their cognizance.
Mr. D. thought there could be no doubt
ns to the faft of the letter being' really Mr.
Blount's, as several persons in the house
could prove his hand writing. It was ne
cefTary firft to enter into this general resolu
tion. Afterwards fpecific articles of im
peachment could be prepared.
(To be continued. J
Lailson's Circus.
On TUESDAY Evening, July II th,
FOR THE BENEFIT OF
Mr. J A Y,M O N D,
Will be performed a variety of New Equeflrian
Exercises, by Meffr*. Langley, Her hi an,
Sully (the Clown) and Lailfon.
The surprising manoevrei of the
H O.U L A N,
With the carabine and broad sword ; after which
the fcenc of the DRCiCK W ART, in the charac
ter of MONT-AU-CI&L, by Mr. Lailson.
The PEDESTAL,
The evening's entertainment to conclude by a firft
reprefcßtation of a Heroic Pantomime
in three a&s, called
Dorothee ;
OR,
The Strcngh of Love andMaternall endernefs.
Which will b» preceded bjf
Les Preux Chevaliers.
Prologue to Dorothee ; ®r, the reception to tie Brave
Officer : -with the majefic ceremony, order, and refpeft,
imposed to a reception in that refpe&able corps : Ornamen
ted ujith dances, military cvo r utious, grandprocefftons,finm
gu ar combats 'with battle axes, swords aud daggers, be
tween Dungy and Sacrogorgon, and general combats; new
>nuftc, fGentry , and decorations (the paintings executed by
AfeJJrs. Perouany and Audin) ; The 'whole at the ex
pence and un.hr the immediate diiuSjion of Mr. Jay
inondy ivoo mill [pare nothing U and ivhoft only
end is, topreferve % tbebenevolence amgencrous fatisfaSlion
•which the public have been so kind as to \tfify ftnce open
ing of the C'rcus.
Tick ft; to be had at the usual placet, and of Mr.
Jay man J, corner of Second and South-Greets, opposite the
Nciv Market.
Philadelphia and Lancajler Turn
pike Company.
A July ICtb, 1797.
T a meeting- of the President and Managers, a
dividend of seven and a half dollars per fliare
was declared for the last half year, which wiy be
retained by the President and Managers for che
purposes of paying the debts of the Company,
greeable to a resolution of the Stockholders the lath
June laO
TENCH FRANCIS, Treasurer.
Extract from the Minutes of the Stockholders.
June 12th, 1797.
Resolved,
That the fubfeription opened for one hundred
additional {hares of ftbek, conformable to a resolu
tion o :he nth January, 1796, be now clofei,
and that the stock ®f the Company consist of
twelve hundred instead of thirteen hundred stares.
Wm. GOVETT, Secretary.
July 10. m&wiw m&tu3w
new theatre!"
Mr. Fox's Night.
On MONDAY Evening, July 10,
Will be presented a celebratefcrßAGED'V, called
ROMEO fcf JULIET.
Romeo, Mr Cooper
Paris, ' Worrell, jtfit.
Montague, Morris
Caput ft, L'Eflrange
Mercutio, Moreton
B.rv /. o. Fox
Tibalty Worrell, jur.
Friar Lawrence, Warren
friar John, Worrell
Balthazar, Mitch. 11
Apothecary, Francis
Peter, Bliffctt
P a S e > Mafler L'EJlrange
Juliet, Mrs■ Merry
Lady Capulet, L'Eflrange
Nurse, Harvey
In afl I. a Masquerade, ivilh a Dance by the cha
racters. In aft V, a Funeralprocejjion and
Solemn Birge.
The Vocal parts, by Mejfrs. Warrell, Fr inci
Warrftt, jun T. Worrell, Mitchell,—Mrs.
Oldmixon, Mrs IVarrell, Mrs■ Harvey, Mad.
Harwood, Mi/s Millbourne, Miss L' Eflrange,
Miss Anderfbn, &c. CsV.
To which will be added (never performed here) a
FARCE, called
THE ANATOMIST 5
OR, THK SHAM DOC-TOR.
Mons. Lt Median, Mr. Fox
Cri/pin, Bates
Old Gerald, Francis
Toung Gerald, Worrell, jun.
Simon Burley, Warren
Martin, Sliffet
Doßors Wife, Mrs. L' b.Jltange
Beatrice, Mrs Francis
Angelica, Miss L'EJlrange
Waiting Woman, Mrs. Doßtr.
Box, one dollar twenty five cent 1 -; Pit, seven
eights of a doHar—and Gallery half a dollar.
she doors of the Theatre will be open at Gx
o'clock, and the cdrtain rife at seven precisely.
gj" On 'Vclnefrfay, not a<Sed these two years,
the lavorite Comedy called the RIVALS ; —To
which will be added, never performed, a Mu(kal
Drama in two ads, called THE SAVOTARDE
Or, The Repentant Sei-jt.tr ; for the benefit of Mrs.
Fhamcu.%zm
GT- THE UNITED STATES.
Published by Authority.
FIFTH CONGRESS
OF THE UNITED STATES. '
t AT THE FIRST SESSIOK,
Begun and held at the City of Philadelphia,
111 the State of Pennsylvania, on Mon
day, the fifteenth day of May,
; one thousand leven hundred
and ninety-seven.
AN ACT
* Laying duties on damped vellum,parchment,
and paper.
Be it entitled by the Senate and House of Re
prrfentat'rves of the United States of America,
* in Congress ajfembled, That from and after
the thirty-firft day of December next, there
* fliall be levied, collefted and paid through
out the United States, the several stamp du
ties following to wit: For every skin or
piece of vellum, or parchment, or (heet or
piece of piper upon which shall be written
or printed any or either of the instruments
or writings following, to wit: any certifi
cate of naturalization, five dollars ; any li
cence to praftice or certificate of the admis
sion, enrolment or registry of any counsel
lor, solicitor, attorney, advocate or proftor
in any court of the United States, the sum
of ten dollars ; any grant or letters patent
under the seal or authority of the United
States, except for lands granted for military
femces, four dollars ; any exemplification
or certified copv of any fuqh grant or letters
patent, two dollars, any charter party, bot
tomry, or xefpondentia bond, one dollar ;
any receipt or other discharge for or on ac
count of any legacy left by any will or other
testamentary instrument, or for any share or
part of a personal estate divided by force of
any ftr.tute of distributions, the amount , <
whereof fliall be above the value of fifty :
► _ dollars, and (hall not exceed the of one 1
hundred dollars, twenty-five cents ; where
the amount therebf Jhall exceed the value of 1
F one hundred dollars and shall not exceed five i
hundred dollars, fifty cents ; and for every <
« further sum of five hundred dollars, the ad- i
ditionai sum of one dollar ; any policy of |
insurance or instrument in nature thereof, f
whereby any (hips, vessels or goods going s
from one diftrift to another in the United f
States, or from the United States to any so- ]
reign port or place, shall be insured to wit, 1
if going from one diftrift to another in the f
United States, twenty-five cents ; if going i
from the United States to any foreign port c
or place, when the sum for which insurance t
is made fhallnot exceed five hundred dollars, j
» twenty-five cents ; and when the sum infu- )
red shall exceed five hundred dollars, one dol- 1
lar ; any exemplification of what nature so- \
ever, that shall pass the seal of any court, r
other than such as it may be the duty of the C
clerk of such court to furnifh for the use of
the United States; or some particular state, e
fifty cents ; any bonds; bills, single or pet
nal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, pro- a
mil Tory note, or other note for the security c
of money, according to the following scale, t
viz. on all bonds, bills single or penal, so- e
reign or inland bills of exchange, promissory a
note or other note above twenty dollars, and o
not exceeding one hundred dollars, ten t
cents ; above one hundred dollars and not g
, exceeding five hundred dollars, twenty-five t
cents ; above five and not exceed- ' c
ing one thousand dollars, fifty cents ; h
l above one thousand dollars, feventy-five d
cents : Provided, that if any bonds or , C
notes shall be payable at or within 60 days, ft
- such bonds or notes shall be fubjeft to only b
two fifth parts of the duty aforefaid ; and i u
provided, that notes issued by any of the h
Banks now established, or which hereafter w
may be established within the United States, p
shall be fubjeft to a duty according to the si
following scale, viz : On all notes not ex- w
ceeding fifty dollars, e» the pte of three fifhs 01
of a cent for every dollar ; above fifty dol
lars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, tl
fifty cents; above one hundred dollars, & not 01
[ exceeding five hundred dollars, one dollar ; so
above five hundred dollars, two dollars ; a- fu
ny protest or other notarial aft, twenty-five fa
cents ; any letter of attorney, except for ct
invalid pensions, or to obtain or fell warrants di
for lands granted by the United States' as cc
bounty for military services performed in the
late war, twenty-five cents ; any certificate th
4 or debenture for drawback of customs or du- cc
ties for less than five hundred dollars, one ai:
dollar ; any certificate or debenture n;
for five hundred dollars, and not ex- of
ceeding two thousand dollars, two dollars ; ti<
* and on every certificate ordebenture formore tr
than two thousand dollars, three dollars ; m
any note or bill of lading sox 4 any goods or ti(
merchandize to be exported, if from one
1 diftrift to another diftrift of the United it
States, not beinginihefame state, ten cents; T
if to be exported to any foreign port or m;
place, twenty-five cents ; any inventory or as
catalogue of any furniture, goods or effefts, di
made in any cafe required by law (except in ft;
cases of goods and chattels distrained for wl
rent or taxes, and goods taken in virtue of m:
any legal procefsby any officer) fifty cents ; pa
*■ any certificate of a share in the Bank of the all
United States, or of any state, or other m:
bank, above twenty dollars, yid not exceed- te<
ing one hundred dollars, ten cents ; above an
one hundred dollars, twenty-five cents ; and m<
for any certificate for every such share un- he
der twenty dollars, at the rate of ten cents W
, for one hundred dollars ; and the fame for be
f any less sum of the amount of the fliares ex- ve
prefled in such certificate ; provided, that of
nothing in this aft contained, shall extend ne
to charge with a duty, any legacy left by a- T<
I ny will or other teftementary instrument or no
. any share or part of a personal estate, to be fai
} .divided by force of any attribu
tions vviiicn fha!l be left/ to, or divided a
mongst, the "Wife, children, or grand chil
dren of the. person deceased ihteftate, or ma
king luch will or teftameniary instrument, or
any recognizance, bill, bond, or other ob
ligation or contract, which shall be made to
or with the United States, or any Hate, or
for their use refpeftively.
• 2 * " c further enacted, That
in lefpeft to any fta:rp, on any of the notes
). of the banks, now established, or which
hereafter maybe eftabl,filed within the Uni
ted S.tates, it shall be lawful for the Secre
tary of the 1 reafury, to agre£ to an annual
cpmpofition for the amount of such stamp
duty, with any of the said baiiks, for one
ia, per centum on the amount of the annual
dividend made by such banks, to their stock
holders refgedVivelj'.
Seel. 3. ■ ridbe itfurthir enacted, That
all deeds and writings whatsoever, for the
payment of any sum of money, upon the
nt, contingency of the loss of any (hip, or
goods, laden or to.be laden on board of any
le- (hip, or of damage thereto, -shall be conftru
~a, ed and adjudged to be policies of insurance,
.er within this aft chargeable with the several
■re rates of duty herein before mentioned,
h- Seft. 4. y'nd be it further enaSed, That
u- when any vessel, or any goods or merchan
or dize, laden or to be on board of any
or veflel, shall be insured, a policy duly ftamp
en cd shall be ifTued, or made out, within the
its {pace of three days at furiheft ; knd the
si- insurer or insurers neglecting to make out
li- such policy or policies, within the time
if" afoiefaid, (hall forfeit the sum of twenty
■1- dollar?, for every such negleft or offence ;
or and all promissory notes, or other security
m made for afTurance or insurances of (hips,
nt goods or merchandizes at sea, or going to
; d sea, in lieu of a policy, are hereby declared
ry void.
>n Seft. 5. And be it further enafied, That
rs every deed, instrument, note, memorandum,
t- letters or other writing between the captain
; or master, or owner of any (hip or vessel,
c- and any merchant, trader or other person,
er in refpeft to the hire or freight of such
3r I ftiip or vefTel, for conveyance of any money,
as , goods, wares, merchandize or effefts, laden
it | or.to be laden on board of such fhiporvef
y i ihall be deeded and adjudged to be a
le . charter party. i
•e Seft. 6. And be it further enaSed, That
)f every receipt for every sum of money, paid
,e i° whole or in part, of any legacy or share
y of personal estate, distributed as aforefaid,
1- in the cases in which a duty is hereby char
)f ged, shall express therein the true sum which
f, shall have been so paid ; in default of which,
g as well the person or persons by whom the
d fame (hall have been paid, as the person or
)- persons by whom the fame shall have been
t, received, (hall severally forfeit and pay the
ie sum of twenty dollars : And every receipt
g in full, fliall be deemed, for the purpose of
t charging .the duties hereby laid, to be for
e the entire sum of "such legacy or share of
;, personal estate, unless it shall be made to ap
i- pear that all such part thereof, as may not
I- be exprefTed in such receipt in full, was, pre
-- vious thereto, paid, and upon a receipt or
receipts, duly marked or stamped, accor
e ding to the directions of this aft.
if Seft. 7. ,'!ndbe it further enaUed, That
, every counsellor, solicitor, attorney, proc
:- tor, or advocate, who hath been, or fliall be
1- admitted, enrolled or registered, in any court
y of the United States, before he shall at any I
■, time after the said thirty-firft day of De
- eember next, prosecute, carry on, or defend
y any aftion, suit or proceeding in any Court
d the United States, shall take out a cer
n titicate of such admifiion, enrolment or re
t giftry from the Clerk or Prothonotary of
e the Court granting such admifiion ; which
- , certificate 1 hall be written on a piece of vel
; lum, parchment, or paper stamped accor
e ding to the directions of this aft, and such
r | Clerk or Prothonotary fliall make entry of
, such admiflion, enrolment or registry, in a
' book to be by him kept for that purpose, to ;
1 i which any person may at reasonable times 1
c have access without fee ,or reward : For 1
r which certificate and entry there shall be i
, paid to such Clerk or Prothonotary, by the 1
: supervisor of the revenue for the diftrift 1
- wherein such Court fliall be held, the sum
5 of twenty-five cents.
Seft. 8. And be it further rnaßed, That
, the receiving a certificate as aforefaid in any f
t ,one of the Courts of the United States, f
I for any one of the said offices, shall be a f
• Sufficient admiflion in all the Courts of the c
' fame, for that or any other of the said offi- "J
ces, so far as relates to the payment of the t
' duties iinpofed by this aft ; any thing herein i
; contained tp the contrary notwithstanding. j
Seft. 9. And be it further fnacled, That 1
• the several duties aforefaid, (hall be levied,
■ collefted, received, and accounted for, by
and under the immediate direftion and ma- t
: nagement of the supervisors and infpeftors i
of the revenue, apd other officers of infpec- f
tion, fubjeft to the luperintendance, con- a
trol and direftion of the Treasury depart- I
ment, according to the refpeftive authori- 1
ties and duties of the offices thereof. t
Seft. 10. /Ind be it further enacted, That e
it shall be the duty of the Secretary of the c
Treasury, to cAfe to be provided so many e
marks and stamps, differing from each other, t
as fliall correspond with the several rates of t
duty aforefaid ; that is to fay, one mark or a
stamp for each diftinft rate of duty ; with
which marks and stamps refpeftively fhallbe t
marked or stamped all vellum, parchment or t
paper, upon which fhallbe written, orprinted, t
all or anyofthe several instruments, writings, c
matters and things herein before enumera- f
ted and charged, according to the nature t
and description of each of the said inftru- 0
ments, writings, ' matters and things as are a
herein before fpecified and described : f
Which said several "marks and stamps shall t
be notified by a public notification, or ad- si
vertifement, to be iflued by the Secretary a
of the Treasury, and inserted in at least one c
newspaper printed in each State, and in the
Territory North-Weft of the Ohio, and for e
not not less than three months before the ti
said thirty-firft day, of December next, to 0
the end that all persons may hive due notice
1- thereof; and which fatd marks and (tamps,
I- or any of them, shall or may be altered or
- renewed from tffne to time, as the said Se
r cretary of the Treasury fliall think fit, so as
1- like public notification thereof, be made,
a for a tevm not less than three months, before
r such new stamps or marks shall begin to be
used.
t Seft-. 11. And be it further enacted, That
s the supervisors of the revenue are hereby
1 empowered and required, forthwith .upon
- derrland to them or any of them, made by
. any perlon or persons, to stamp or mark any
1 quantities or. parcels, of vellum, parchment
j or paper (he Or they paying to the super
• visors of the revenue refpeftively,the refpec
-1 tive duties hereby direfted to be paid-for the
- lame) to stamp and mark the fame accord
ingly, without any other ftc pr reward;
£1 which stamp or mark iSaTT be a Sufficient
: discharge for the several and refpeftive du
: ties hereby granted upon the said vellum,
r parchment or paper, which shall be so stamp
■ ed or marked.
Seft. 12. And be it further enacted, That
, if any supervisor of the revenue shall fix any
1 such mark or stamp to any vellum, parch
ment, or paper, upon such request or demand
as aforefaid, before tlie several and refpeftive
. duties thereupon charged by this aft, fliall
be duly answered and paid, or secured to be
. paid, he shall for every such offence, forfeit
• his office, together with the sum of five
hundred dollars.
Sec. 13. And be it further enacted, That
if any person or perfons,-fhall write or print,
i°r cause to be written or printed upon any
unstamped vellum, parchment or paper,
(with intent fraudulently to evade the duties
imposed by this aft) any of the matters
or things for which tne said vellum, parch
ment or paper is hereby charged to pay any
duty, or shall write or print, or cause to be
written or printedany matter or thing, upon
any vellum, parchment or paper, that shall
be marked or-ftamped for any lower duty
than the duty by this aft payable, such per
sons so offending, shall for every such offence,
forfeit the sum of one hundred dollars ; and
in cafe any clerk, officer, or perlon, who
in refpeft of any public office oremployment,
is or shall be authorized or iuftrufted to make
write or print any deeds, instruments or
i writings, by charged to pay a du
ty, as aforefaid, fliall be guilty of any fraud
or praftice to defraud or deprive the United
States of any duty by this aft payable, by
making writing or printing any such deed,
instrument, or writing, or causing the fame
to be made, written, or printed upon vel
lum, parchment, or paper, not marked or
stamped according to this aft (or upon vel
lum, parchment or paper marked or stamp
ed with any mark or stamp which he shall
know to be counterfeited) or by writing or
printing any such deed, instrument or other
writing upon vellum, parchment or paper,
that fliall be marked or stamped for a lower
duty as aforefaid, every such clerk, officer,
or person so guilty, and being thereof law
fully convifted, shall instead of the penalty
aforefaid, forfeit and pay the sum of five
hundred dollars ; and if an officer of the U
nited States, shall, in addition thereto, for
feit his office and be disabled to hold or en
joy the fame for the future; and if any deed,
instrument, or writing-whatsoever, by this
aft charged with the payment of a duty, as
aforefaid, shall contrary to the true intent
and meaning thereof, be written or print
ed, by any person or persons whomsoever,
upon Vellum, Parchment, or Paper, not
marked or stamped, according to this aft,
or upon Vellum, parchment or paper, mark
ed or stamped, for a lower duty than ought
to be paid upon the fame, then, and in eve
ry such cafe, there shall be paid to the Uni
ted States, for their use, over and above the
duty herein before charged thereupon, for
(lamping every such deed, instrument or
writing, the sum of ten dollars ; and no
such deed, instrument or writing fliall be
pleaded or given in evidence in any court,
or admitted in any court to be available in
law or equity, untill it shall be stamped as
aforefaid. And the Supervisors refpeftively
are hereby enjoined and required, upon pay
ment or tender of the said duty and sum of
ten dollars unto any of them, to mark or
(lamp the said vellum, parchment or paper,
with the mark or ftamp'that shall be proper
for such deed, instrument or writing, re
fpeftively ; and if any person or persons what
soever, ftiall counterfeit or forge any ft Slip,
or mark, to resemble any stamp orinark which
"Jhall be provided or made in pursuance of
this aft, or shall counterfeit or resemble the
impression of the fame upon any vellum,
parchment or paper, thereby to defraud the
United States of any of the duties hereby
granted, or utter, vend or fell any vel
lum, parchment or paper, with such coun
terfeit mark or impression thereupon, know
ing such mark or impression to be counter
feit ; or fliall privately or fraudulently use j
any stamp fir mark, direfted or allowed to
be used by this aft, in relation to the duties j
hereby laid, with intent to defraud the Uni-.
ted States of any of the said duties,- then
every such person so offending, being thereof
conviftejl in due form of law, shall be judg
ed guilty of a misdemeanor, and be fubjeft 1
to be fined in any sum not exceeding one 1
thousand dollars, and to be imprisoned for\ '
any term not exceeding seven years.
Seft. 14. And be it further enafied, That 1
from and after the thirty-firft diy ()f Decem
ber, no bank now eftablifhefl, or which shall 1
be hereafter established, which fliall not have
compounded for the duty hereby required, .
shall issue any bank hill or promissory note,
unless upon paper duly stamped, and where
on the refpeftive duties fliall have been paid; j
and if the officer of any such batik or any
person or persons employed therein, shall
thereafter issue any bill or note, not duly
stamped as aforefaid, he or they shall forfeit =
and pay a fine equal to the value of the bill
or note so issued.
Seft. 15. And be it further enaSed, That
every person who shall be employed for the j
marking or Hamming of vellum, parchment t
or paper, as aforefaid, before hi 3 fifting in
: , the Marking or ftaspi% of the said vellum,
, parchment or pp.per, fhail take the following
r oath or affirmation :
"I[itifcrt here the name of the person] do
i, folenanly swear [or affirm tfs the cafe may
, bej that I will, according to the b.eft of iny
• knowledge and Ml, faithfully, honestly and
carefully execute the trust reposed in me,
and will truly mark or [lamp all vellnm,
parchment or paper which I shall be requ'r
ed or direfted to mark or stamp, and will
render a trye find ffccatlnt Ihereof to
the proper-officer or officers, and will faith
fully account for all monies which ftiall re
ceive therefor.
Seftion 16. And be it further enacted,
That the said supervisors ol the revenue, of
ficers and other perions to be employed by
them, shall from time to time, for the bet
tei execution of their several duties and
trusts, observe and execute fucli directions
as they refpeftively shall, from time to time,
receive from the department of Treasury;
which department shall take care that
the several-parts of the United States ffiall
from time to time, be fufficiently furnifhed
with vellum, parchment and paper, stamped
or marked as aforefaid so that the citizens
thereof may have it in their election to buy
the fame of the officers or persons to be em
ployed in and about the execution of this
ac L , at the usual or moil common rates a
bove the said duty, or to bring their own
vellum, parchment or paper, to be marked
or stamped as aforefaid.
Seftion 1 7 , And he it further enaSed,
1 hat as often as any alteration or renewal
lh,ill be made of, or in the marks or ftanjps
before in use, or any of them, it shall be
lawful for all persons who shall, at that
time, have in their cilftody or possession, any
vellum, parchment, or paper, marked with
any mark or stamp, which (hall be so altered
or renewed, ajid upon which any of the
matters or things hereby charged, (hall not
have been written, or printed, at any time
within the space of sixty days, after the in
tention of renewing or altering shall be no
ticed as aforefaid, to. bring or fend such
vellumi parchment or paper, unto some of
lice of infpeftion; and the officer of inspec
tion, to whom they fliall be brought or sent,
is hereby required to deliver, or cause to be
delivered, unto the several persons who shall
so bring and deliver any quantity of vellum,
parchment or paper, the like quantity of
vellum, parchment or paper, and as good in
quality, stamped with such new stamp or
mark, without demanding or taking,direftly
or indireftly, for the fame, any money or
other consideration whatsoever. And in cafe
any person shall neglaft or refufe, within
the time aforefaid, to bring, or cause to be
brought and delivered unto some officer of
infpeftion, any such vellum, parchment or
paper, the fame is hereby declared to be of
no other effeft, or use, than if it had never
been marked or stamped; and all matters
and things which shall, after that time, be
written or printed thereon, shall be ofnoo
ther effeft, than if they had been written or
printed on vellum, parchment or paper not
marked or stamped: And all persons who
shall write or print any of the masters or
things hereby charged, on such vellum,
parchment or paper, after the said time,
shall forfeit and fuffer as herein before is en
afted for persons writing or printing on vel
lum parchment or paper not marked or
stamped.
Section 18. And be it further enaded,
That all and every the officer and officers
who shall be concerned in the levying, col
lefting and receiving the duties arising by
this aft, shall keep a separate and diftinft ,
account thereof, and shall j ay or remit the
fame, as speedily as may be,after it shall be j
received, according to the orders of the !
Department.of the Treasury.
Seftion 19. And be it further enaScd, !
That it shall be lawful for the President of
tne United States, to cause such ?md
sums of money to be expended and paid,
from time to time, for salaries, compenfa- i
tions, and other in ridcntal charges as shall
be necessary in and for the receiving, collec- 1
ting, levying or managing of the faid'duties,
so as that the whole amount tljereof, shall
not exceed five per centum of the gross total
product of the said duties.
Seftion 20. And be it further enaßed,
That all fines, penalties and orfeitures,
which fliall be incurred by virtue of this aft,
shall be sued for and recovered in the name
of the United States,or of the supervisor of
the revenue, within whose didrift, any such
fine penalty or forfeiture shall have been in
cuned, by bill or information, in any cir
cuit or diftrift court of the United States, or
in any court of either of the said States;
one half thereof to the use of the person
who, if an officer of infpeftion, shall firft
i'ifcoverj; if other than an officer of infpeftion
/hall firft inform of the cause whereby any
such fine, penalty or forfeiture shall have
been incurred (except in the cases in which
a different disposition thereof may have been
herein before made) and the other half to
the use of the United States.
se£!i'on 21. And be it further enaSed,
That this aft fliall continue and be, in force
for, and during the term of five years, and
from thence to the end of the next Session of
Cdngrefs and no longer.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
THOMAS JEFFERSON,
Vice President of the United States, and
President. of the Senate. ,
■Approved, July, 6, 1797 :
JOHN ADAMS,
President of the United States.
Deposited among tlie Rolls in the Office of
the Department of State.
.TIMOTHY PICKERING/
Secretary as State.
Wants Employment,
IN fore, a Man vho can.he well recommend
ed, WT:■ t"' 3 and understands ac
costs. As ply lit t.'o. JO, N'orih Fifth Street, and
cherry-alley Asy reputaVe pisce will luit.
Ju'y 10.
%l)e <3asrttr.
PHILADELPHIA,
MONDAY EVENING, >/jf la
£s* The regular Carrier of this
Gazelle for the Southern di/lfitf be*
ing ftcky those fubferibers who may
be pxiitted this day are requeUcd to
ftna to the Office fir their papers.
P-P" —ed thK life, the i'ttinff. iri the 81 ft year of
meffwf r \^ ENfcVK " FLE ' fonncr! >' a "
the worrf \\'""n 7 ' Hc wa «* ''l every sense nf
paren- V" efl " la " " tcijtr and affoflionate
parent, da d, alcove all, lived and died a HiriQhn.
On Friday n.Vht,a;»ew ba-ri,together witKtwo
M Ben' T< vsJtiahleWfes, beJongin? to
Acrt atGerfl —.
' 'VsR
of 'rl e 7 Serjte ' Sa «irc!ay morning, the Order
was d ,jr 011 the motion for expcll
whi V m "' on ? liie thc sLw
; fid,™. W "? p " y P o(! F«->ned to take into con
sideration tlie meffiige of th s Houfc of Reprefenta
; t.vtl) and Mr. Martin and Mr. Codec were sworn
!>y a mag'firate who attended for the purpose, and
1 fin ' hf harid writ ' r 'S o£ Mr- Blount,.
i ch they fubrtantiated. The bufinef, had not
j, been far proceeded with, when Mr. Blount t-ak
; his feat and informed thelloufe Meffcs. D'aßa »nd
ngeifoil, hu council, were rtajy to plead in his
defence. I hey were allowed .o take tht:r feats u
! the bar of the Houfc, and Mr. Dallas commenced
. the do., nee m a very all - and ingcjiiout addrcft
which occupied more than three hours
Mr ingerfolf followed hirn in a fcetch of nearly
two ho,:rs. '1 hele gentlemen had reecurfe to eve
ry precedent which could b produced flora liifto
ry, an., to every argument which ability an'dittrc
( ruity could suggest. They particularly relied 'oh
| the ground that thefmifluMrf of an offender should
nt: the uial, and that to extul Mr,
Blount from his feat at this time, would he to do
what could only be done, provided hc was f«md
guilty of the impeachment preferred, which,how
ever, they den es! the .right of the Houfc of Rep
resentatives to prefer.
The defence being «oHhed; Mr. Rofs rose and
in a, very luminous fpctih examined ail the areu
m.nts which had by the counft , J'l.d
(hewed Jhcir want of fpUditv. He juftitfeS the
expnlfion of Mr- Blount from his Scat, on the evi
dence which they had of his uflwoithincfs to fill It;
and appealed very forcibly on the feelings of the'
House as to the nature of the crime of which he
flood charged, and as to what might have ken the
conference had his plans been carried into effect.
This speech seemed to have great effect on the
Houfi;, and after some other members had offered
a few words on ihe oce;flon,Mr. Bioodwcrth mo
ved to podpone the business till Monday. The yeas
and nays were tjken upon the question, and it was
negatived 19 to 7 The question was then put on
the ex pulsion, and carried by yeas and nays, 26 to
r. ihe negative vote was Mr. Tazewell's.
After this decision had taken place, Mr. Blount's
bail delivered him up, and he was takee irto the
cullody of the messenger of the Senate.
, GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
ARRIVED. 13 AT S»
Ship Glasgow, Barry, , Cadiz 68
Cornelia, Gilbert, Lifcon 74
Brig Nymph, Ruffe], Newry 41
Little Sally, Taylor, Alexandria 14
Jemima & Fanny, Conklin, N.York 10
Charleston Pac. Strong,Charlefton 6
Susannah, Hunt, Bourdeaux 54
Sch'r Tryal, Hand, Alexandria 7
Jupiter, Burbankj N. Yprfe 4
Mary, Eve, St. Thdmas 15
Frederickfburgh Packet, Pearce,
Port-au-Prince 12
Expedition, Williams, St. Thomas 10
Telegraph, Corry, Havanna
Captain Corry left at Havanna the Ham
burgh Packet, Swaine, and the- Columbus,
Vanneck, of this port. Arethufa, Keith,
had arrived there from Jamaica.
The Fanny, Wellman, of Salem, is ar
rived at Lifoon.
Captain Hunt, from Bordeaux, spoke,
June 28, a large brig from Bordeaux with
out ahead, out 67 days for this port. The
schooner Expedition, Williams, left at St.
Thomas, the 28th ult. the brig Ann, Rof
fetery of this port, t» fail in 4 days. Polly,
Hannah, do. on Friday morning last was
1 oarded and examined by the privateer crui
sing off the C?pes, and politely diftniffed.
The Sganiih privateer, ,fifing- of the
Capes, is called the Julia, Baptifta
Mahgn ; /he captured tfie Asia within a few
miles of Cape May, after (he had the pilot
on board. The second mate, two paffengcis
(with the baggage) and afeaman, were put
into the pilot boat, and arrived in town yes
terday about one o'clock.
The above privateer captured on Friday
afternoon, in Irght of Cape May, the ship
Asia, Yard, from Bengal to this port, and
feat her for Cape Francois. The Asia,
was out five months, Left at Bengal the
fiiip Ganges, Green of this-port.
• New-York, July 9.
ARRIVED, DAY'S.
Ship Atlantic, Cowper, Briftcl 84
Albcrmarle, Lang, Gibraltar 48
Prig Phebe, '/ aylor, Martinique ii!
Schr Americanus, Bell, Wilmington 4
Ship Alfeermarle, Lang arrived from Gibral
tar in 4S eays, failed in company with a brig
and schooner for Boston, and the (hip William,
1 apt. Campbell, of Portlmouth N.H. bound
lroni the isle of Zante to Bi fiol, (England.)
Capt. L. on the 21ft of June, lat. 41, 56,
fp ke brig Sal y, of \Villis, Jos Lyney, mailer,
56 days out from Liverpool, bound to Boston,
nearly out of all kinds of provisions ; gave him
xbbl. of b&f, 1 do.bread, some peife and rice,
and one gallon of brandy, then parted compa
nv.
LANDING,
AT SojitK-'lrect Wharf, from on board schoon
er Expedition, captain Harding Williams,
from St.Thomas, a Cargo cf
Coffee, Sugar, and Rum..
For Sale by
F. Coppinger,
No. 221, South Front-Jlreet.
July 10. §ict
A Wet Nurse Wanted.
A Healthy Won:an wi'h a good breast of
X 3 milk, may hear of a place by applying at
the Printing Office <?f this paper.
July 10. *it
•i-Pi'opofrJs
j£W tarrying MA IL £of the |
United States on the fulloiving
PoJI Roads, will be received
at the General PoJl-OJfice, in
Philadelphia, until the 31ft
day of July next, inclujive.
MAIME.
I. Fromferir.ver's or Scoodit byMichlas, Chin
<ll< r's r; V. r and Columbia, to Narraguagus once a
week.
I.cave Brewer's every Saturday at 1 P M, and
arrive at Marraguagtis the next Tuesday it 6 p.
M—-Returnlngj leave Narraguagus every Wednes
day at t> a m, s«d arrive at iJrewcr's th« next Sa
tutday by 10 a m .
2. From Narragivjusby Gouldlborough, Sulli
van, Trenton, Bltiehill, Cuftin?, Pcnobfcot, Bucks
ton, Frankfort, Profpeft and lielfail to Puck-
Trap once a week.
Leave NarragUaeus every Wednesday by 5 a
'm, and ;yrivV at Duck Trip the next Saturday by
io aM. Returning. Leave Duck Trap every Sa
turday by 7PM and arrive at Naruguagus the
next I'uefday by 6 r m.
3. Frcm Duck Trap by Camden, Thomifton,
Warren, WaMoborough, Newcaftlf, Wifcaflet,
Bath, Brun'wick, ire: port and North Yarmout,
to Portland once a week.
Leave DuekTrap every Saturday 6y 2 p m, and
arrive at Portland tht next Tuesday by 6 pm. Ri
turnincr. Leave Por:lani every Wedi elday by 6
a :i!,atd arrive at Duek Trap the next Saturday by
io A M.
4. From Portland by Biddeford, Welles and
York, to t'ortfm»uth.
Apt il is to October 15 ' Leave Portland every
Monday, Wed.icfday and Friday by 6 a m, and ar
rive at Porifmouih tht fame days by 6 p m. Return
ing. l.v ve Pnrtfmouih every Monday, Wednes
day and Friday at 9 r m, arid arrive at Portland on
the next day hy 6 p M.
OMer ij '0 April 15. Leave Pot land every
Monday r.nd Thursday at 6 a m, aid arrive at
Portsmouth on Tufday and Friday by 10 am. Re
tun-i;;. Leave Portf'.aouth every Tuesday and
Friday at I PM, and arrive at Portland every
Wednesday and Sa:urd .y at 5 p M
J. From Portland by North-Yarmouth, Frer
pj;t, Brunfwi V, Bath, Wifcaffet, Dresden, Pittf
ton ahd HallowtU llauk to H-Jlowa'.l court house,
onceaVerk
I.rav# Portlnd every Friday at 8 A t M, and ar
rive at HaMowel! co.irt-houfe the next Saturday by
7 PM. Returning. Leave Haiiowell court-house
every V,'e.ln f Jay by 5 A M, and arrive at Port
land on Thursday by 6 P M.
6 From V/i cadet by Dresden, Pittfton, Hallo
well- Hook, Hi'.lowell court-house, Winthrop,
* Mo mouth, Green, New-Gloucfefter and Gray to
Portland onee a week
Leave Portland every Monday by si A M, and
r.rri\e at Wifeaffct on Wednesday neon. Return
ing. Leave WifcaSet on Wednesday at 3 P M,and
arrive at Portland on Friday by 6 P M.
7. From Haiiowell Ho»k by Vaffalboroogh,
fort Halifax, Window,»Fairfield and Cinaan to
N rridgewok once a week.
Leave Hfdlowell Hook every Wednesday at ii
A M. and arrive at Norridgewock on Thurlday
Lv 6? M. Returning. Leave Norridgewock on
Monday at 1 P M, and arrive at Haiiowell Hook
on Tuefi'ayby6 P M.
8- From Haiiowell Hook to Farmington on San
dy river once in two weeks.
Leave Haiiowell Hook every other Wednesday
by 3 A M, alio' arrive at Farmington by 6 P M.
Returning. Leave Farnyngton every other Thurs
day at 8 A M, and arrive at Haiiowell Hook by 6
PM.
9. From Portland by Falm-uth, Gorham, Bux
ton, Standifh, Limerick, Tarfonfield,
and Lebanon to Berwick, once in two weeks.
Leave Portland every other Monday at 8 A M,
and arrive at 3erwick on Wednesday by noon.
Leave Berwick every other Wednesday at a P
M, and unive at Portland on Friday by 6 PM.
10. From Standilh by Flinftown, Fryburg aca
demy, Conway and Tamworth to Sandwich in New
Hampf-ire once in two week».
Leave Standiflj every other Tuesday ky 8 AM,
and arrive at Sandwich on Wednesday by 6 PM. Re
turning. Leave Sandwich every other Thursday at
8 AM, and arrive at Standifh on Friday by 6
r M.
iu From Wells by Waterboro', Sanford, Dough
ty's Falls, Berwick and Dover, to Portsmouth once
a week.
Leave Wells every Tu fday by 6 A M, and ar
rive at Portsmouth on Wednesday by ic A M. Re
turning. 1 ea»e Portsmouth every Wednesday by
sPM, and arrive at Wells next Thursday by 6
PM.
KEIV-HA MPS HIRE.
11. From Portsmouth hf Dover, Focheftc# and
Moultonborough to Plymouth, returning by New-
Hampton, Meredith, Gilm;ntown, Nottingham
and Durham to Portsmouth once in two weeks.
Portfmou.il every other Wednesday by 8
A M;* ami arriv-rt Plymouth the next Friday by 6
PJM Returning- 'Receive the mail at Plymouth
evey other Saturday i-y 8 AM, and return to
Pcrrtfmcuth the next Tuesday by 4P M. •
.Vi/r. " l'he pt ff is to' jo and return on this route
alternately."
13- From Portsmouth by Exeter, Cheftcr, Lon
donderry, Amherrt, Peterborough and Marlbo
rough to Keene, once a week.
Leave Portsmouth Thursday by SAM,
arrive at F.xeter by one P M, at Chester by 6 P M,
and at Keene 011 Saturday by 4 P M Returnbtg.
Leave Keene every Monday hy 8 A M, ajrive at
Cheftcr on Tuesday by 4 P M, at Exeter on Wed
nefdayby9 AM, and at Po tfmouth by 4 P M.
14. From Concord by Plyni-uth to Haveifcill,
once a week.
Leave Con ord every Monday by 6 A M, arrive
at P'ymouthon Tuesday by 3 P M, and at Haver
liill 0:1 Wednesday b.y 4 PM. Returning. Leave
Havdthill every Thursday by 8 A M, arrive at
Plymouth on Friday by 9 A M, and at Concord en
Saturday by 4 P M.
15. From Exeter to Hampton Falls, three times
a we?k from April 15 to October ij, and twice a
week from Oftoberis to April 15.
Leave Hampton falls in one hour after the arriv
al alter the arrival of the mail from Boston, and
deliver it at Exeter in two hours,, remain at Exeter
two hour* and return to Hampton Falls in fix
hours from tiiatime of leaving it,
MASSACHUSETTS. »
16. Frpm cwhuryport, Haverhill, Kingflon,
Exeter, New Market and Durham to Dover once
■ a weirls.
l eave Newburyport every Monday by 10 A M,
arrive at Dover op Wedriefelay by noon. Return
ing. Leave Dcver 6r. Wedrefday by 3 P M, and
arrive at Newbijrypo t on Friday by 3 P M.
ly-rl'romSalem to'Gl®uce3er once a week.
1 cave C' loucefkr every Wednesday by 7 A M,
and arrive at-falcmby 11 AM. Rrturr.in*. Leave
t-aletn every Wednesday, l:y J P M, and arrive at
Gloucelter by 6 PM.
Note, should be c .tr e<i in a frdge i( is
to he carried as uften as the fiagc runs, the hours
dei.red to be f.ated in the proffifal?.
18. From Salem to Marblehead three times a
week. Ltave Saltm every Monday, Wednesday,
. n i Friday irr-i iediatc's .afte'r the .arrival of the
miil from Coflon, and deliver it at Marblehead in,
one hjur and an half, leave MarWrhcad in one
hour ar.i a half and return to Salem in two i ours.
i) I'rem Eo.lon, Ly Andovcr, Haver!® and
Cl.efi.ti Jo Concord in New Haalpiiurc once a j
week. j
Leave Cloucot'd every Monday by 6 A M,arrive
at Cheder by 7. P jM, and arrive at Bofion 011
Tneitiayby4 P M. Returning. Leave boston ev
ery Friday by 9A M, arrive.at Chester on Saturdr p
by 11 A M, and arrive at Concord on Saturday by
6 P M
23. Frofn Boston by Concord, LancaP...-, Leo
minder arid Aftibtiriilum to Mr. lUoroegh,Keene
?nd Walpole ill New Hampfhive.
Leave every The.-fday by 6 AM,
arrive at, Keene hy 9 P ?4, annd at W alpole on Fri
doy hy |o A M Leave Wilpoleev
ery'Saturday or Sunday by 5 A arrive aKetne
by 9 AM, and at/eominfter in the eveoiog..
Z.eave ieomitifter every' Monday and Thursday by
6 A M, and arrive at by 6 P M.
2'. From Boston hy Qxincy, Hingham; Hano
ver, Plymouth, Sandwich, Earnftable, Yarmouth,
Dennis, Harwich and Chatham f.o Truro onee a
week.
Leave Boston every Thursday by 3 r m, arrive
at Sandwich *a Friday by 6p M,and atTruro the
next Sunday hy 6a m. Returning. Zeave Truro
every Monday hy 8 a M. anive at Sandwich on
Tu fday by 7 p m, and at Boston ou Thursday by
10 A M.
22. From Sandwich by Falmouth and Holmes
Ho'e to JMgarton onee a weeek.
Leave Sandwich every Saturday by 1 p m, and
arrive at Edgarton on oik!ay by i< a'm. Return
ing Leave Edgarton «n Monday by 2 t u, and
arrive ch on Tuefdsy by noon
-23. From B .fton by Sharon, MajisStld, Norton
and Tauntop to Newport once a week.
Leave Boston every Monday by 6 a m, and ar
rive at, Newport Vy 0 p m, on Tuesday. Returning
Leave Newport every Wednesday by g a m, and
arrive at Befton on ! hurfday by 6 pm.
24. From Boston by Charleston, Me lford, Wo
burn, Billerica, Chelmsford and Tynjboroegh to
Amherft onee a week.
Leave Boston every Thursday by io a m, anil
arrive at Amherft the next Saturday noon. Rc
turri g. Leav ■ Amherft every Monday noon, and
arrive at Boston on Wednesday by 3 p m.
«5. From Boston by Randolph, Bridgewater,
Rayuham and Taunton to New Bedford.
From Afay Ito November I. Leave Boston every
Monday, wednefdayand Friday atio p m, arrive at
Taunton the next day by 11 a m, and at New Bed
ford by 8 P m. Returning. Leave New Bedford
ever) Stmday, Tuesday andThu-fday by 10 r m,
arrive at Taunton the next day by 11 a m, and at
Boston hy 8 p m .
From November Ito nav 1. Leave Boston eve
ry wednesday and Friday at 9 a m, arrive at Tan
ton by 8 » », and at Ne .▼ B dford on Thursday &
Saturlay by 8 f m. Returning Leave New
Be Ifordevery Monday and wednesday by 9 a m.
arrive at Taunton by 8 p m, and at Boston on
Tuesday and Thursday hy 7 r m.
26. From New Bedford to Nantuc k:f, twice a
week from November Ito May I. Leave New
Bedford every Friday and Monday by 6 a m, ar
rive at Nantucket in the evening. .Leave Nantuc
ket every Saturday and Tuesday by 10 a m, and
arrive at New Bedtord in the evening.
From may Ito November 1. Leave New Bed
ford every Monday, wednesday and Friday by 10
a m, and arrive at Nantucket in the evening. Re
turning. Leave Nantucket every Tue day, Thurs
day and Saturday it 8 a M,and arrive at New Bed
ford in the evening, winds and tile permitting.
27. From Taunton by Dighton and Semerfetto
warren once a week.
Leave Taunton every wednefjay by j a m, and
arrive at by 10 a m. Leave warren by 1
p m, and arrive at Taunton by 6 r m■
28. From Boston byDedham, Frovidencr, Plain
field, Norwich, New London, Saybrook, Killing
worth, Guilford and New Haven to New York
t'iree times a week.
From may I to November I. Leave Boston eve
ry Tuefd»y, Thursday and Saturday by lb a m,
arrive at h'roviuence by 6 v wj arrive at Norwich
on wednefjay, Friday and Monday hy noon, at
New London by 3 p m, arrive at New Haven on
Thursday, Saturday and Tuesday by noon, at Stan
ford by 9 p m, andat New York on Friday, Mon
day and wednesday by noon. Returning. Leave
New York every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday
. by ioa m, arrive at New Haven on wednesday,
Friday and Monday by 2 p m, at Norwich on
Thursday, Saturday and Tuesday by nnon, at Pro
vidence by 8 pm, and at Boston on Friday, Mon
day and wednesday by I r m.
November Ito ,*tay 1. Leave Boston every
Tuefjay, Thursday and Saturday by 9 a M, ar
rive at providence the next days by 9 am, at New
London evety Thursday, Saturday and Tues
day by noon, at New Haven on Friday, Monday
and wednesday by 3 r m, at Stratford by 8 p m,
and arrive at New York on Monday, wednesday
and Friday by 11 a m. Returning. Leave New
Yoik every Saturday, Tuesday audi hurfday by 11
a m, arrive at Stratfo-d the r.ext days by 8 pm, at
New Haven on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday
by 9 a t/i, at New London on wednesday, Friday
and Monday hy 3- p m, at providence, Thursday,
•Saturday and Tuesday by 4 m, at Boston on Fri
day, Monday and wednesday by 3 p m.
29. From Boston by Dedham, Mendon, romfret
and Tolland, to Hartford once a week.
Leave Boston every Thursday by 7 a m, arrive
at Hartford the next Saturday hy 6p m. Return
ing. Leive Hartford every Monday by 8 A M,
and arrive at 3 >fton on wednesday hy 5 p m.
30. From New Bedford to Newport once a
week.
Leave New Bedford every Thursday by 6 A m,
and arrive at Newport by 4p m. L4avc Newport
every Friday by 8 am, and arrive at New Bcdfori
by 5 p m.
31. From Worcafter by Rutland, Pcterfham and
Northfield to Brat.leborough once a week.
Leave worcester every Tuesday by I i«. and
arrive at Brattlebo.rongh on wednesday by 6 ? m.
Returning. Leave Brattleborough every Thurs
day by 6 a m, and arrive at worcester on Friday
noon.
32. From Brpokfielil by Bclchertown, North
ampton, worthington,pitt(.fie!d and Ne-.v Lebanon
to Albany
Leave Brookfield every Tuefuay and Friday by
9 a m,' arrive at Northampton hy ( r m. Leave
Northampton every wednesday and Saturday at 5
a m, arrive at rittsfield by I P M, andat Albany
on Thursday and Monday by 7 r m. Returniug.
Leave Albany every wednesday and Saturday at 5
a m, arrive at rittsfield by 5 r m, at Northamp
ton on Thursday and Monday by 7 r m, and ar
rive at Brookfield on Friday and Tuesday by 4
p M.
33. From Springfield hy Welt field and Stock
bridge to Kinderhook ones a week.
May I to November I. Leave Springfield eve
ry Tuesday by 3 r M arrive at Kinderhnok en
Thursday by 6 P M, Returning. Leave Kinder
hook every Friday by 9 AM, arrive at Stock
bridge by 3t m. Leave
by 6°rt M, and arrive at Springfield by 7 rm .
November I to M«y I. Leave Springfield every
wednesday at 6 a m, and arrive atK.nderhook on
1 hurfday hy 2r m. Returning. Leave Kinder
hook 011 rhnrfday by 4 r m, arrive at Stockbridge
on Friday noon I.eave Stockbridge every Tues
day at 6 a a, and arrive at Springfield by 7 PM.
34. From S'uflielii bv,WeftSp> iogfield,Northamp
ton, .Gieenficld, Brattleborough, Wedmint.'r, Wal
pole, Charleftown and Windier to Hanover twice a
week.
Leave Suffield every Tuesday and Fri lay at am,
ri ive at Northampton by 1 p m, at Walpoleon V/ed
nefeav »nd Saturday by i p m, atWiodairon Mon
day «nd Thursday by S r M. and aL Hanover by 7 r
Returning, Leaare Kanov: r every Tuesday and
Fiiday bv 6 a m,arrive at Windforby l p m , at Wal
pole cn Wcdr.e.'day and Saturday by 7 p m, and at'
Noit'r, ifnpton or. ivlonday and Thci fdayby noon,add ;
at Snffield by 7 P M.
35 From Hanover by Oxford and Haves hill to
Newbury one a week.
Leave Hanover every wednefc/ay by 6 a M, arrive
-H Haverhill bv 4 P ;W, and at Ncv\bury by 5 P M.
Return-ng. LiaVc Newburv every Ti.uifday by 6 A
M, arrive at Havei hiH by 8 A M, rud ai Haverhill by
5 P M
V RM NT.
36- from Windsor by RcylJUon, Randolph, Will ■
hpifton and Montpeiier to Burlit.gton ,oncc in two
>fcks.
•Leave Wind for every other Tburfdiy by 6 A M,
ond arrive at Ba ingfon the next Saturday fey (0 P M.
Returning. Leave Burlington evtiy oiher Thursday
by 6 A M, and arrive at Wiudfor on Wednesday by 6
P M.
37. From Wind for to Rutland once a week.
Leave Rutland every Mon by 7AM and arrive
at WiivJfor on Thursday by 6? M. Returning
Leave Windsor every Wednesday by 6 A M, a d ar
rive at Rutland on Ti'urfd&y hy 6 r m.
38 from Burilirtpton by Vcrgennes and Middle
bury to Rutland a week.
Leave Burlingtdn every T : urfday by 8 am, and
arrive at Rutland on Saturday by 6r m. Retiming.
Leave Rutland eve ry Monday by 8 a m. and arrive at
3urlingtou on Wednesday noon.
From Ruiiandby Mmchcfter, Bennington,
La.iiingbu-g and Troy to Albany.
Leave Rutland every Monday at 8 a m, and arrive
at Albany the next Wednesday by 6p m, Return
ing. iLeave Albany every Thursday by 8 a m, and
arrive at Henningtou by 7r m» Leave Bennington
on Friday by 8 a m, and arrive at Rutland on Satur
day by 7 p m-
RftjDE-ISLAND.
40. From Providence by Bristol and Warren to
Newport.
Leave Providence every Monday, Wednesday and
Friday by 7 a m, and arrive at Newport the fame
days bv SPM Returning. Leave Newp or t every
Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday by 8 am, and ar
; ri v e a t Providence by 4p m.
41. From Providence by East Greenwich, New
port, South Kingston, WesterLy and Stonington Point
to New London once a week.
Leave Providence ivcr% Tuesday by 8 a w, and
arrive at Newport by 6 pm, leave Newport every
Wednesday by 6 a m, and arrive at New London on
Thuildav by noon. Returning* Leave New Lon
don on Thursday by 3 ? m, aud arrive at Newport on
Friday by 6 pm, leave Newport on Monday by 7 a
m, and arrive at Providence by 5 p m.
CONNECTICUT.
42. From by Windham to Norwich
once a week. j
Leave Hartford every Tuesday by 6 .a ift, *nd ar- ,
rive at Norwich by 7p m. Returning. Leave Nor
wich every Monday by 6 a m, and arrive at Hartford
by 7 p m.
43 From Hartford by Middletown, Modus Land
ing and Colcheli'.r to New-London, once a week.
Leave Hartford every Tuelday at 1 t m, and arrive
at Hew Lor.don on Wednesday by 7 pm. Return
ing. Leave Ne.v London every r i hurlday by it a
m, and arrive at Hartford on Friday by 7 p m.
44. From Hartford by New Hartford, Canaan,
Sheffield and Hillfdalc to Hudson once a week
Leave Hanford eveiy Monday at a p m, and arrive
at Hudson on by 11 am. Returning.
Leave Hutlfopevery Wednesday at 2 r m, aod arrive
at Hartford on Friday by 11 am.
45. From Havtfoidby New Miiford,
Newiown, Danbury and Ridgefield to New York
once a week.. »
Leave Hartford every Monday by 10 a m, arrive at
Litchft Id by 7 p m, at New Miiford on Tuesday by
Ii a M, and at New York on Thursday by 8 am.
Retummg. Le ve New York every Thursday by 4
p m, arrive at New Milfoid on Saturday noon, at
Litchfield by 7 r m, and at Hartford 011 Monday by
8 am.
46. From New-Haven by Derby, Southbury,
Woodbury*. Bethlem, Litchfield and Gofhen, to Ca
naan, once a week. .
Leave Canaan every Monday noon, arrive a* Litch
field by 7 p Mi and at New Haven on Wednesday by
10 am. Leave New Haven every Wednesday by 1
p m, arrive at Litchfield on Thursday noon, and at
Canaan by 7 p m.
47. From New York by White Plains, Bedford,
Fredericktown, Dover, Shar n, Sheffield, Great
Barriogton, Stockbridge, Pitufield and Williamfton
to Bennington
Leave New York every Monday, Wednesday and
Friday at 5 AM, the next Friday and
Monday at 6 PM. Returning. Leave Bennington
every Thursday, Saturday and Tuesday by 5 A M,
and arrive at New York the next Saturday, Tuesday
and Thursday by 6 P M.
If the stages run but once a week on this route the
mail iato leave New York every Monday at 5 A M,
arrive at Bennington on Wednesday by 6 PM. Leave
Bennington on Thursday bv 5 AM, and arrive at
New York on Saturday by 6 P M.
48. From New York bv Yonkers, Peekdcill, Fifli
! ki'l, Paughkeepfie, Rhinebeek, Redhook, Clermont,
Hudson, Claverac and Kinderhook to Albany three
times a week.
Leave New York every Monday. Wednesday and
Friday by 2 P M, arrive at Tarrytown by 8 P M
Leave Tarrytown every Tuesday, Thursday and Sa
turday at 5* A M, arrive at Poufchkrepfie by 7 P M.
' Leave Pougbkeepfie Wednesday, Fridav and Sunday
by 5 AM, arrive at Kinderhook by 7P M. Leave
Kinderhook every Thursday, Saturday and Monday,
at 5A M, and arrive at Albany by 8A M. Return
ing. Leave Albany Thui fday, Saturday and Mon
day by 3 P M* arrive at Kinderhook bv 7 P M.
Leave KinderKook Friday, Sunday and Tuesday, at
,5 am, arrive at Pougbkeepfie by 7 p m. Leave
PoughkeepGeSaturday, Monday and Wednesday, at
5 AM, arrive atTairvtown by 7p m. Leave Tarry
town every Snndav, Tuesday and Thursday» at 5 a
m, a r-A-c at New Vork at n a m.
49. rrom Albany by Troy end Lanfingburgh, to
Salem, once a week.
Leave Albany every Tuesday at 8 a m, arrive at
Lanfingbnrgh by 10 a m, and at Salem by 4 p m. Re
turning. Leave Salem every Monday, by 8a m, and
arrive at Albany by 5 p m.
SQ. From Salem, by Granville, Frirhaven, Ver
gennes, Bason-Harbour, Willfboro', Peru and Pitts
burgh, to Chaniplain-town, once in two weeks,
every other Wednesday by 5 AM, and
arriveat Platrfburgh the next Sunday bv 5r m. Re
turning. Leave Piatt (burgfe every or Her .Monday at 8
A m, and arrive at Salem the next Friday by 4 p m.
ST. From Lanfingburgh bv Waterford, Stillwater,
Fort Ed ward, Whitehall landing and Fuirhaven, to
Rutland, in Vermont.
Leave Lanfingburgh every Thursday by noon, and
aiVive at Rutland the next Satuidav by 6 p m-. Re
turning. Leave Rutland every Monday by noon,
andarrive at Lanfingburgh on Thursday by 10 a m.
52. From Albany by Schcne&ady, Tr iocs Hill,
ConaioJjarry* German Fbtts, Old Fort Schuyler an i
Wbitestown to Rome. The times dtjirci tobejidted in
the prtyofafs.
53. From Schencfhdy by Balltown Springs and
Gienfb idge to Sandy Hill once a week.
Leave Schene&ady every Tuesday by 6 a m. and
arrive at Sandy Hill by 4p m. Leave Sandy Hill on
Wednesday by 6 a m, and arrive at Schene&ady by
4PM. '
54. From Tripefiiill to Jphnfton once a week.
Leave TppdbiU in one hour after the mail arrives
from Albany on Tuesday, arrive at Johnfton in two
hours, flay at Johnfton two hours, and return to
Tripefhill in two houiJ.
55. Fr<,m Conajoharry by Cherfy. Valley to Coo
periiown twice a'week.
Leave Conajoharry every Wednesday and Saturday
at 6 a m, and arrive at Cooperftown bye p m.
L< ave Cooperftown every Tuesday and Friday by 10
a m, andarrive at Conajoharry by 6 p m.
c 6. From Cooperftown by Butternuts and Oxford j
to Uiiiononce in two weeks.
Leave Uniof. every other Monday by 10 a m, and
arrive at Cooperftown on Wednesday by 5p m. Re
turning. Leave Cooperftown every other Thui fday
by 6 a m,and arrive at U»i mon Saturday by 3p m.
57. From Old Fort Schuyler by Cincinnati to
Oxtord Academy once in two weeks.
Leave Old Fort Schuyler every other Thursday by
6a m, and arrive at Oxford on Friday noon. Re
turning, Oxford every other Friday by 2 p m,
and ariiv; at Old Fort Schemer On Saturday bj ; P
;M - , . I
58. Fiom Rome bjl to Rauerdam once
in i-A'o weeks.
leave Rome every other lliiirftftyby 10 A M, and
orpvea Rotterdam by 6 P M. Returning. Leave
Rotterdam every c-.her Friday bvgd.Yf, and arrive
at Rome by 6 P M.
59. From Rome by Oeida, Onondaigtis, Scioio
and Geneva to Kanandai;us ouc* a week
Leave Rome every by 10 A M, and ar
rive at Kanondaigua every Monday by 10 A M, |
LeavcKanandaigua every Monday bv \o A M, and
arrive at Rome the nextThurfday by 8 A M.
60. From Kanandaigua by Hariford to
once in two weeks.
Leave Kanandaigua every other other Monday by 10
A M, and arrive at Niagara the «ext Wednefd-'v bv 7
PM. Returning. Leave Niagara every orher Fri
day by 6'A M, and arrive at Kanandaigua neu
Monday by 6 A M.
61. From Rhinebgck by Kmgfton, Shiwangunfc,
Wardfbridee, Gofhen, Hamburg, Newtown, John
fonfburg and Hope» to Eafton, ooce a week.
J.eaye every Thursday. by 3 P M, and arrive
at Rhinebeck thencXt Sunday by 5P M. Returning.
Leave Rhiuebeck every Monday by 8 A M, and arrive
a' Eafton en Thursday by to A M.
62. From New Yoik by Ha kenfack, Paramus,
New Antrim and Chester to Gofhen once a week.
Leave New York every Friday at 7 A M, and ar
rive at Gofhen on Saturday by 6 PM. Returning.
Leave Gofnien every Tuesday at 6 A M, and arrive at
New Yorkon Wednesday bv 6 PM.
• 63. From Fiftikill by Newburg and New Windsor
to Gofhen once a week.
Leave Fifbkill every Wednesday by 7 A M, and
arrive at Gofhen by 5 P M. Leave (jnftien every
Tuesday at 7 A M, and arrive at Fifbkill by 5 P M.
64. From New Yark by Jamaica, Huntington,
Smithtown, Brookhaven, Suffolk, Southampton &.
Biidgehampton toSagharbour once a week.
Leave New York every Thursday at 10 A M. arid
arrive at Sagharbour the next Saturday by 6 P M.
Leave Sagharbour every Monday at 8 A M, and* ar
rive at New York on Wednesday by 5 P M.
NEW-JERSEY.
65. From Woodbridge to Amboy three times a
week.
I.eave Woodbridge every Monday, Wednesday &
Friday at 8 A M, and arrive at Amboy by 9 A M.
Leave Amboy a* noon and arrive at Woodbridge by
1 P M.
66 From Trenton bv Allentown, Monmouth
courr-houfe, Shrewsbury, Middletown Point, Spotf
wood, New Brunswick.Somerfet, New Germantpn,
Pittfton and Fiemingtonto Trenton once a week.
Leave Trentou every Tuesday by 10 A M, and re
turn to Trenton the next Tuesday by 6 V M.
67. From Philadelphia by launtonand Atfion to
Tucker ton once in two weeks.
Leave Philadelphia every other Wednesday by 3
PM, rrive at Tuckerton on Thursday by 6 P M.
Leave Tuckerton every other Tuesday by 6 A M, and
arrive at Philadelohia on V/ednefday by 9 A M.
68. From Philadelphia by Woodbury, Swedefbo
rough, Woocfftown and Salem to Bridgetown once a
week.
Leave Philadelphia every Wednesday afternoon by
3 o'clock, and arrive at Bridgetown on Friday by 2
PM. Leave Bridgetown on Saturday at 8A M, and
arrive at Philadelphia on Wednesday at 9 A M.
69- From Philadelphia by Jenkintown, Plumftead
and Piper* by Bethlehem to Eafton once a week.
Leave* PhiladeJohia every Wednesday by 10 A M,
and arrive at Eafton on Thursday by 2P M. Return
ing. Leave Eafton rvery Monday at 9 A M, and ar
rive at Philadelphia on Tuesday by 3 P M.
70. From Plumftead by Pipers and Alexandria to
Pittfton once a week.
Leave Plumftead every Thursday by 5 AM, arrive
at Pittftpn bv 11 A M. Leave Pittfton by 1 P M,
and arrive at Plumftead by 7 P M.
71. From Eafton to Wilkcfbarre once a week.
Leave Eafton every. Thursday by 3 P M, and arrive
at on Saturday noon. Returning Leave
Wiikefbarrre every Tuesday noon, and arrive at Ea
fton every Thursday by noon.
72. From Philadelphia by Norriftown, Trap,
Pottfgrove, Reading, Lebanon and Harrifburg to
Carlisle.
Oftober 1510 April 15 Leave Philadelphia every
Tucfdav and Thursday at sunset, arrive at Reading
evcryThurfday and Saturday at 4 PM. Leave Read
ing every Fridav at 8 \ M, arrive at Carlisle every
Sunday by 11 AM. R' turning Leave Carlisle eve
ry Sunday by 2 P M, arrive at Reading on Tuesday
by 4 P M, leave Reading every Wednesday aud
Monday by 8 M, and arrive it Philadelphia on
ThurfdaV aad Tuesday by 4 P M.
A p r 'l *5» to
ry Wednesday and Friday at 8 A M, arrive at Read
ing on Thursday and by 11 AM. Leave
Reading every Thursday noon, and arrive at Carlisle
the next Saturday by 11 A M. Returning. Leave
Carlisle every Monday noon, arrive at Reading on
Tuesday bv 7 PM. Leave Reading every Wrdnef
dav and Monday at 8 A M, and arrive at Philadel
phia 00 Thursday aod Tuesday byg A M
73. From Reading by Hamburg* Suttbury and
Northumberland to Louifburg once a week.
Leave Reading every Friday at 6 A M, and arrive
at Lo;iifburg on Monday by xo A M Returaing.
Leave Louifburg every Tuelday noon, and a?rive at
Reading on Thursday bv 4PM
74. From Harrifburg bv Peteifburg. Millerftown,
Thompfontown, Mifflintown, Lou down, Huming
don, Alexandria, Centre Furnace, Belle Fount. Milel
burg, Aaro 'lburg, Mifflinburg, Louifburg, Northum
berland! Sunbury and Halifax to Harrifburg once in
two weeks.
Leave Harrifburg every Saturday by 6 A M, wait
ing at each polt-office which shall he eftabSiihcd on
the route, two hours, and return again to Harrifburg
the next Monday by 8 A M
75. From Somerset by Connellfville to Union once
a week.
Leave Somerlet every Thursday by 5 A. M.arrive
at Union by 4P. M. Leave Union every Friday bY
8 A. M and arrive ttSoimrfctbv 7 P. M.
, 76. From Pitt {burg by Cannonfburg, Wafliiogtor,
Weft Liberty and Wheeling, to the mouih ot Fifti
; ingCvrek' once a week,
Leave Pittfburg every Friday by noon, and arrive
at Fishing Creek on Sunday by 9A M. Returning.
Leave Fiihinu Creek every Wednesday bv 4 PM,
and arrive at Pi tfburgthe rex Friday by 3$ J M.
77. From Preston by Walbington to Cincinnati
once a week.
Leave Preston every Friday at noon, arrive atWafh
ingtou bv 8 P M, and at Cincinnati the next Monday
1 noon. Returning. Leave Cincinnati every Tuesday
at 6A M, and arrive at Walbington on Wednesday
by 5P M. Leave W,afhington at 9P M, and arrive
, at Preston on Friday by 11A M,
From Peterlb-irg bv City Point to Bermuda Hund
red, three timrs a week.
Leave Peterfb'irg every Monday, Wednesday and
Friday by 6 A M, and arrive at Bermuda Hundred
bv «o AM. Leave Bermuda Hundred by nA M,
add arrive at Peteifburg by 3 P M, on the famedays.
KENTUCKY. # s
78. From Washington by Springfield, Bourbon,
Lexington, Frankfort and Harrodjburg to Daaville
once a week.
Leave Washington every Saturday by 8 A M, and
arrive at Danville the next Monday by j PM. Re
turning. Leave Danville every Tuesday by 8 AM,
and arrive at Lexington on Wednesday noon, and at
Wafhingt-<n on Thursday by 6 P M.
79 Fiom Danviljc to Leu fville by Beardftown,
once in two weeks
Leave Dinvilfe every other Tuesday by noon, ar
rive at Louifvilic the next Thursday by 3 PM*.
R. tut/iing Leave Louisville every other Friday by
6 A M, and arrive at Danville on Sa.urday by 6 P M
80 From D.invil!e by Stamford and Cumberland
Gap to Moffat's store in TennefTce once a week.
Leave Danville every Monday at 2 P M and arrive
at Moffat's store tl.c next bv 6 P M. Leave
Mof&i'i ftoie every Friday bv 6 A M, and arrive at
Danville On Monday by 10 A M.
TENNESSEE.
81. From Knoxville by South Weft Point and
Fort Blount and Ciaig Fort to Nartivillc Once in two
Leave Knoxville every other Tuesday by 8 A M,
and arrive at? Nafflivillr'the bygA M.
Re'urniag. Lt.*ave other Mscd»y by
1 PM, aad arrive a: KaciVille th: nitt Sarirdjv
by 8 PM. |
MART LAND AND FIRGINI.fr
,8a- From Baltijnare by Ellic-tt'a Lower Mills,
Mont^omdty Charlefburg, Zeolburg,
Middleburg and VVarrtntpn to Culpeper court
house, once a vve^k
Leave Baltinore every Monday noda, arrive at
Lcelburg on Tuesday evening, and 'at Cuipeper
Court Houle the next Thursday noon. Returning-.
Zeave Oulpepcr court-hocfe every Friday noon, and
arrive at Baltimore the next Monday by 9 A M.
83. Fro n a Hen's Ft'efli by Zudlow's Ferry to
Port Conway i-i Virginia.
Zeave Allen'? Fresh every oth*r Monday by 6 a
m, arnd arrive at Port Conway by 6 P iVf„ Re
turning. Leave Port Conway every otner Tues
day by 8 am, and arrive at *1 Jen's Frelh by 7 P M.
84. From Morgantovvn by Petty John to Clark
fbury once in two weeks.
Zeave Morgamown every other Monday by 5 a
M, and arrive at Clarkfnurj by 5P M. Return
ing. Zeave Clarklburg every other Tuesday by 8
a M, andarrivcat by 8 P M.
8?. From Todd's to King and Court 11.
once a week. , f
Zeave Todd's every Thursday by 9 a M, arrivq
at King and Queen by 11 a M. Zeave Kins and
Queen at 1 P M, and arrive at Todd's by 6 P M.
86. From Halifax by' Danville to Cai wel! court- ( -
house once in two weeks.
Leave Halifax courf-rioufe every oiher Tuesday by
2 PM, arrive at Cafwell court-hou/e the next sVcd
nefday bj 6P M. Returning. Leave Cafwell C.*i.
every other Thurfdsy by 6 A M, and arrive at Halifax
court house oq Friday by noon.
87. From Peterfburgh by Suffer court house
and Southampton court house to South Quay, ones
in two weeks.
Leave Petersburg every other Wednesday by 6
A M and arrive at South Quay on Thursday by 6
PM- Returning. Leave South Quay every other
Monday by 6 A M and arrive at Petersburg on
Tuesday by 3 P M.
SORTH.CAROL IN A* &c
88. From Newbern to Beaufort and Swanfboro'
once in two weeks, the mailt® go alternately.
Lsave Newbern evary other Thursday by 6 A
M, remain at each of the offices two hours, and
return to Newbern the next.
89. From Wilmington by Georgetown to Char
leston, once a week.
Leave Wilmington every Monday by 6AM
ana arriv# at Charleston the next Thursday ay io
AM. Leave Charleston every TV.urfday by 3 P
M and arrive at Wilmington the next Sunday by
5 P M.
90. From Norfolk by Kempfville, Great Bridge
and North Weft River Bridge to Jonefboro', once
in two weeks
Leave Norfolk every other Wcdnefday at 9 A
M and arrive at Jonelboro' on Thursday by 7 P M
Peturning. Leave Jorufboro' every other Monday
by 10 A M and arrive at Norfolk on Tuesday by 6
P M.
91 From North Wu-ft River Bridge by New Le •
banon to Elizabeth city ; once in two weeks.
Leave North Weft River Bridge every ctbe.-
Friday by 6 A M add arrive at Elizabeth city by
6 PM. Leave Elizabeth city ev.ry other Satur
day by 6 A M, and arrive at N. W. river bridge
by 6 p M.
91. From Salem, N. C. by Bethania, Flower >
Gap Grayfoncourt-houfe and .Auftinvillc toWythc
court-house once in two we*ks.
Leave Salem every other Saturday by 6 A M,
and arrive at Wythe c. h. the next Mor.. by 6 p M.
Leave Wythe court-house every other Tuesday by
9 AM, and arrive at Salem the next Thursday b/
: 6 PM.
93. From Murfreefboro' by South Quay to Suffolk
once a week.
, From Murfreefboro* every WedneTday byGAftlt
» arrive at Suffolk by 6P M. Returning. Leave Suf
folk every Tnefday by 6 AM, and arrive at Murfreef
boro' bx 6 PM.
94. From Fayctteville to Pit fburg once ia tw>
weeks.
Leave FavettevilJe every other Weinefdav by 6 A
M, au<? airive at Pittfburg on Thurlda)i a* 10 A M.
Leave Pittfburg every o'her Thursday by 2 P M> and ar
rive at Fayettevillc on Fiic#v by 6 P M.
1 1
GEORGIA AND SOU TH-CAROLINA.
95. From by Robinson at the White
Ponds and Gillets mills to Coofah?tchy, ouce a
week.
Leave Augufla every Tuesday by 8 A ly* and ar
-1 rive at C«(fahatchy on Wednesday by 7P M. Re
turning. Leave Coofahatchy every Su l day at 6 A
M and arrive at Augusta on Monday by 5 P M .
96. From Georgetown to Rocky Landing ia
Georgia, once in twp weeks.
Leave Georgetown every other Monday at 6 A
M, and arrive at Rocky Landing at 5P M. Rc
t turning. Leave Rofky Landing every other Tues
day by 6AM and arrive at Georgetown by 6 FM
; NEW JERSEY.
67* From Newtown r y Hacketftown, Morriftown
1 aad Chatham to Newaik, and from Newa k back by
Chathim. Morriftown, Booneton, Rockaway and
Sparta to Newtown, once a week.
1 Leave Newtown evei v Thuriday by 5 A M and ar»
\ rive at ftjewark on Friday by 10 AM. Leave New
ark every Friday by 2 P M, and arrive at Newtown
c on Srtuiday by tS.P M.
Note I. The Pojl Majltr General may alter .tie times
rf arrival and departure at any time duriug ike continuance
of the contrasts, be previotjly Jiipulating an adequate com
pzitfation fer a«uf extra expense that may be occaftoned there
}>/
Note 1. Half an hour fiall be alloioel for opening
and clnjintt the M. mil at all offices where no particular time
is fpevificd.
Note 3. For every hour's delay (unavoidable accidtrts
excepted) in arrivip& after the times nrefcribed in an v coh-
traci, the Contraflor Jhall jorjeit one dollar, and if the de
lay continue until the departure t>f any depending Mail y
\ whereby the Mails dtflined for such depending Mail, loje
a trip, an additional jorjeitune of five dolars fhalt bt
incurred•
i Note 4- Neivfpapers as-well ae Letters are t* be fer.t
1 in the Mails ; and if any ptrfon making proposals desires
, to carry neivfpapers oiher than tbofe conveyed in the mail r
fur his own emolument) he mujl Jlate in his propofils for
luhat sum he ivill carry it zvitb that emolument and for
fum •without that tmolumcnt.
c Note J- Should anypetfon m 'hing proposals defirq an
alteration of toe times of arrival and departure abrrsc fpc
cified, he mufl Gate id his proposals the alterations desired y
an I the difference they ivill make in ihc ta .ns of his csn~
trafi.
1 Note 6. Persons mailing pioptfuls are desired to fldtc
their prices by the year. c lhofe ivbu contract tuill receive
thejr pay quarterly, in tie months of "January, Aprii % .
July and Ofiobsr.
/
j Nute 7 The contrails are to be in eperatien on the firlr
day (f Q&ober next, and continue for four until
the fir/? of QRuber jßoi—excepting contracts for the
; roll's No. ?, io, 31, 36, 50, <sl, J7, '6O, 74,
t 76, 77., 81, 83, 84. 87. 9°; 9'. pa, 96
■which are to continue Jot txvo years until tb \fl of Oflol.r,
1799.
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
, Pojl-Majlcr General.
( General Poft-Office, Philadelphia, \ *
May 2.7 th, 1797. i ,
Jure'l. aawtj3i