and Philadelphia Daily Advertise?.
Numssa 148 S.l
. For Sale,
The fine and rertarkibly fall
Virginia and Philadelphia
Barthen aVou™ 100 tons. For terms apply to
Rofs & Simfon.
__J'Jne 12. dtf
For St. Thomas,
THE SHlf
Ann and Mary,
(jS® l, Captain tfuilS 1
WILL fail 111 ten days. For
■freight or jiaflage apply to
F, COFPINGER.
No. 221, South Fr«nt Jlreet.
9. diot
For Sale,
ACT FV E,
, t j, e 20t jj ; n ft at jj, e Coffee-
House, at 7 o'clock, P. as lhc came fro"fti sea :
ibe is known to be a faft sailer. Ady paiticular in
formation miv be badna application to Cap:. Bing
ham on board said brig, at McfT. Jeffe and Robert
w 9 lti s Wharf, to John Plankinhorn, or Thomas
Sseurait. loveatory to be seen and terms of pay
ment to be made known at tb« time of sale.
-J Utir a ' tf
tikMk ° r on^on »
THE «HIP.
WILLIAM PENN,
7,imes fosiAH, Majier. >
TTriLL fail with all convenient speed. For
V freight or paflage appiy to
jejfe f Robert Wain.
May 19 j
For Sale"
The cargo of the brig Entttprfz,;, Captain
Lang don from Bourdeaux, now landing at
Morton's wharf,
consitimo
3»4 hhds. of Claret 12-
»l? cases of ditto -o i 5
»o» c .fes of Sweet Oil
II o pipes London proof ) - 'j J
lo pipes of Holland proof y- BRANDY 'J W-a
Apply to
Wharton £3* Lewis,
No. 115, South Front St.
WILL tike a FREIGHT for
t ' le Well-Indies or Europe, fails
burthen about fifteen hun
--rf3S^£W_.«S2c| t . e( j barrels, is in complete or
der, and will be ready to receive a cargo in a
few days
Apply as above*.
May 24 f
For Sale or Charter,
JST*"' the » h,?
WARREN,
Benjamin Church, Majier.
about 280 tohs burthen. En
' qu i rc of #
"Jeffe S5 3 Rdbert Waln-
May a 6 5
JohnTarris, mailer.
A GREAT part of her cargo is engaged, and
Ihe will fail in ten days. For freight or pas
sage apply to capt. Tarris, at Willing* & Francis'
wharf, or to GURNET & SMITH.
May 15 §
'"■ x For Freight or Charter,
MillP' Bri g Fame,
S- FRANCIS KNOX, Mailer:
A flrong, excellent veflel, Hjs been jud (heathed and
ready to receive a cargo. She will carry 2,000 bir
>el>, his good accommodations so palfengers.
Apply 10
Capt. Knox, or to
Kearny Wharton.
J une 6 , * SP.
HAY.
A Quantity of excellent Old and New Hay to
jTxbe had at Peel Hall Farm qn the Wifiahickon
Road, about a miles from the City.
Alfe, A QUANTITY OF BUILDING STONE.
J une 8 s6t
FASHION AND CHEAPNESS.
INTELLIGENCE TO THE LADIES.
JUS - received from London, two' trunks of ele
gant BRUNSWICK KID Ladies' Shoes, of the
most fashionable patterns and lhape now worn in
that city, and will be fold off immediately j n ftnall
quantities, atfirftcoft, for ca(h, at Mrs. ENEFER's,
No. 105 Walnut fliect, between Third and Fourth
lireets.
V The above was purchalcd of Mr. Fex, in
Piccadilly, who manufaftures for moll of the nobi
lity, and will be warranted good.
JPnet 3 •_ T 3 t__
John Miller, jun. Sc Co. .
Hp.ve receired per the India, Aflimead, from .
Calcutta,
A we'd njforted [mall Invoice tf
Gurrahs
Baft as
Coffaes 1
Calicoes 1
Bengal Stripes
Laid in remarkably low, which tkey will fell for
talh or ihort credit ou very advantageous tennsd
J une J* dawfri4th
George Dobfon,
No. 2J South Third-Street,
HAS imported per fliips William Penn, Starr,
and from London,
3-4 Super London Chints, tlegant patterns,
Oinghttr.s, Muflinettsand Dimity's.
Falho.-.able Waiflcoating, newest patterns.
Ribbands well aflorted, in small trunks.
4*4 3*4 and 6-4 India and Brhifh Book-mul
tins. t
Fancy Cloaths and Caffamiers.) '
'• hs whole to be difpefrd of cheap for CaO)
cr Spproved Notes of a fhorr date.
June 14, '97. d t r
PHILADELPHIA .- THURSDAY EVENING, JUKE 15,1797.
A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRST & ad proof,
Cin, of 4th proof, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in HhcU
Old Hock, in caics ot 40 dozen each
> Glass TuijiMaj, in pint* and half-pints
Window GUfs in boxes, »f different li/es
Hazlenuts, in £u-ks
Whitinj "J
Copperas ( . ...
White Lead C ln hhd '
& Spanish Brown ) »
For Sale bv
PETBR BLIGHT.
Tmnary 4 1
Rofs Sc Simfon,
Have for Sale,
A «UANtITV OF PRIM£.
St. Domingo Cotton,
Superior Old Lisbon Wine in Pipes
Excellent India Market
Teneriffe Wine,
In Madeira Calks
A few (garter Chelli best
Fre(h Hyson and ) ,pr., 0
Hyson Skin $ r f AS
Muscovado Sugars hi Hogflieads, and
Coffee in Tierces
1 March 7. |jtf
Houfhold Furniture.
NOW felling by private sale, No. l7Dock
ftreet—confiftmg el chairs, rabies, looking
glafies, bureaus, hand and fire jrons, bedsteads,
feather-beds carpets, bedtfing, window curtains,
bed and table lrnen, kitchen furniture, &c. The
whole in good order, and has only been a fev?
months in use.
The sale to continue daily 'till the whole isfold.
Jane * §
St. Übes Salt.
3000 bushels St. Übes SALT, for sale by
Philips, Cramond, Ssf Co.
Jpne 12. 3t
Richard Bayley & Co.
Late John Whitesides & Co.
No. 136 Market Jlreet,
CJAVE received per the ships William Penn and
XX Star from London, alargeandfalhionableaf
fortment of the following articles : viz.
Chintzes, and printed Cottons, of the'neweft
patterns
Furniture Dimities and Chiistzes
Ginghams, plain- and figured,
Muilins, printed and embroidery
Do. tambour'd, plain, check and ftrip'd
Do, tamboured, of a very superior quality
Fine Book, Jaconet and Decta Handkerchiefs
Dimities and muflinets
Damalk table-linen, in setts and in the piece
Diaper ditto in Cloths and in ditto
Holland and Russia Sheetings
Loop'd Hollands and Irish Linens
Long Lawns ami Cambrics
Sattins and Silks, plain and figured
Ribbons and Gloves
Crapes and Gauzes
Straw, Chip, and Paper Hats and B'ohnets, new
fliapes
Fancy trimmings, &c.
With a variety of articles in the Linen-Drapery
and Hahcrdafisry line.
May 12 §i o t
Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLAR, Jan. & Co.
No. 8 Chefnut-Street,
Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly affortcd, very low on I
short credit.
March 6. §
PennfylvaniaPopulation Company.
NOTICE is hereby given to the-Share Hold
ers, that a further afleflment of nine dol
lars is levied on each (hare, payable M follows,,
"viz.
Six Dollars immediately, aVid
Three Dollars on the ift of July next.
Which they are reqijefted to pay to the Treasu
rer of the Company, at the Company's Office,
No. sjj North Fourth-street, agreeably to the
times mentioned ; and they are further
informed, that on their negledling to pa the
fame as above dire&ed, the fevera (forfeitures
will be exa&ed.
By order of the Board,
SOL. MAKACHE, Treifurer.
May 21. d^ot
Grattan and Comp.
T) Efpe&fully inform their friends, that they have
lv imported from London per the (hip Star, a
large affortmem of
PER F U M E R T,
Which is no w opened for sale at their House, No.
Market-flreet.
Alt®, a new aiToitiuent of ready-matie gentle
men's linen, shirts from 2 dollars each to 8 dollars. 1
&c. &c. &<T. j
Ladies and gentlemen are accommodated with 1
board and lodging at ten Dollars each.
Tftofe Gent lemen who have their own private I
lodgings, may be accommodated with dinner only,
by the week or month.
June 5 T. St
To be fold,
The time of a stout hearty young NEGRO MAN, j
who has upwards of four years to serve. - Enquire
at No. 15, Dock-street.
June 13: dtw
Window Glass,
OF Superior Quality, and cheaper than any other in
the City—
OF VARIOUS SIZES,
From 8 by 6 to >9 by 14, 1
By the Angle Box or Quantity, may be had at the
Store of the Subscribers, corner of Arch and Front
flrett,
James C. y Samuel W. FiJher.
Philadelphia, June 9, 1797.
For sale,
A t>air of very bandfome
Bay Horses,
Near fifteen hands high, well broke, and rer
feiftly gentle. Enquire at Mr. KclfonY ftablcs,
Chureii-alley.
Atfo, fur Sale,
A Chariot and planted Harness. .
June 13. . i.o?
By John Fenno, N°- il9 Cbefnut Street.
N OTIC t:
THE eo-parinL-rftip 0 f Wiiliemy.>uu X , Jolin Mi.ls,
and John MiHf, jun. Bookielleis and a: loners, un
der the firm of W. Young. Mills an«-i Son, is this
day d.ffoLved by mutual consent. indebted
to the copi«nerfh?p are rcqucfted to make payment
lo William and those having demands arc de
s fired id produce their accounts for /eitlenient.
, William Young y
Jo/jti Mills,
John AAIJs, jun.
■ Pliilaje] oliia, June 6ih, 1797.
W. Y O U N G
Comiiues the bookselling and (btiona-y budnefs at
the usual place, whplefaie and retail, where he has
now a very large affortnoent of
IVrifing and Printing Papert and Books,
Of which cstalogues with the prices ate de
livered giatis-
Wanted,
A person well qualified in the b®ok felling and fla
tionary buflnefs. Applications will be received till
the firft July next, at No. 52, Couth Sccond-ftreet, i
corner of Chefnut-lirect.
June 6. a 7 p 1
Just Received,
From Batavia (via Providence)
J7O Sacks of Java Coffee of Crll quality
Soo half faeks do. do. I
a few Boxjs of Spices, confiding of
Nutmegs, Cloves and Mace
For sale by
KILLINGS £3* FRANCIS.
Pemvflreet.
M »y 30 dtf
For Sale, a new threeJiory Brick
House.
AT the Merchants Coffee Hoirfe, on Friday
next, the 16th inft. at half pafl 8 o'clock
in the evening, will be fold by Public Vendue,
a genteel three story brick House ; it is pleasant
ly situated on the South fide of Arch Street, the
fourth house above Fourth street.
It may be viewed any time before the sale.
T*rms are, one fourth in approved notes ef
60 days, and the residue if required may remain
seven years, on security and interest annually.
Sold clear of all incumbrances, and immedi
ate possession may be given.
Further particulars will be made ktiown at
the time of sale, dy
Richard Footman Co.
AuSioneers.
June it. dtt
Pennsylvania Population Com
pany.
NOTICE is hereby given to the Sharehold
ers, that a further assessment of fifteen
dollars ia levied on each (hare, payable in the
following instalments—viz.
One quarter immediately.
One quarter on the ift of June.
One quarter ou the Ift September.
One quarter on the ift Dec. next.
Which they are requested to pay to the Trea
surer of the Company at the Company's Office,
No. 53 no/th Fourth street, agreeably to the
times above mentioned ; and they are further
informed that en their negledling to pay the
fame as above direfted, the several forfeitures
direited by the Constitution, willl be exadled.
By order of the Board,
SOL. MARAOHE,
Treasurer.
Ma y i.t sim
To be Sold,
A targe and convenient
Three Story Brick House ;
SITD *TE at the north-east corner of Arch and
Fourth-streets. It contains eighteen rooms—■
and is in every refpeil well finifhed. For particu
lars enquire of
M. Keppele,
No. 138, Chefnut-ftreet.
May JI. i
1
Erfkine's View of the War. ;
JUST PUBLISHED, • I
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No 40 Souih Second street,
, [Price 31 Cents]
A View of the Causes and Conjequen- '
ccs of the present War with France. '
By the Honorable Thomas Ekskine.
Maurice Moynihan, I
Na. 81, North Second Jireet, (
A few doors above Arch-Ilreet,
INFORMS his friends and the public,that he has
for wholcfale or retail, on the lowest terms, a
general assortment ef Queen's Ware, gilt and cut
tumblers, plain and fW-cred quart, pint, half pint
gill and half gill do. exa£l meafure3, decanters and
wine glasses ; gallon, half gallon, quart and pint
bowls, and china in fet6 and separate ; pocket
bottles : Schuyikill and Jersey country quart and
half gallon bottles ; Dry Goods, &c. &c.
N. B. Crates put up with care at the (horteft no- i
jice- t
"■ dtf
JOHN CRAIG
HAS just imported from Rotterdam, via St;
Thomas, and for sale omreafonable terms
by the package
Platillas Royal
Haeflem and German linens
Roueru
Poll and PioPatrla Paper
Wafers
Quills
Oziers for Hoops, in Bundles
Coffee Bags
He hat also for Sale,
Best Red Clover Seed
Old Madeira Wine, fit for immediate use
Teneriffe Wine of firll and fecondQuality
Coffee in Bags and Hogflieads r
Jamaica Spirits
Connecticut Turpentine Soap ' 1
Window Olafs j
Two Trunks of best Patent, Silk and Cottas f
Hosiery "
April 18. * 4?w
WANTED,
ABOUT joo tons of freight, for any port
iu f-piin, or the Mediterranean in a neu
tral bo tom. Enquire of JAMES YARD
June;. 7t
I For Sale,
! » r unexpired time of a likely Negro
■l. Girl ? about to old, \?ho ha<f upwards
\ °? 11 years to fcrve.- She is of a good temper,
i
Apply at No. 149 South Trent, or 35 Union
street. June 10 —*mw&f
The sale of 4093 1 1-2 acres of
Land on the waters of VVkealing and
Creeks, in Washington eounty, advertised for
15th intt. 13 poftposied to a future day, of which
due notice will be given, if a private fdle does
not take place. 3t
: June 11.
». r s ,
Poll-Office, 23d May, 1797.
TUB Mail for Bahimoie will bp eloied at this of
ftp every morning (Sundays excepted) at half pait 7
o'clock.
The Mail for Bo (lon will be doled every day
(Sundays'excepted)at 12 o'clock noon ; and
The Mail for Fredcrica, Milford, Clowes, Bagfbo-
Delaware, Horaiown, Accomack Court-House
and Northampton Court-Home, Virginia, will L n
clofcd every Monday morning at hall pitt ; o'c'oci.
May 23. * lt f
• • ' ....... 1
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHES,
{Neatly bc-undand lettered.priceluols. 25 cts.)
By G. DLCOMBAZ,
BOOKSELLER & STsITIONtK,
No, 4!, North Third Street,
Ihe Adventures of Telemachus.
• French and English, 2 vols. izmo.
AMONG the books which daily fall mtothe
hands of the youth of both fcxes, none
have a higher claim to their attention than Tele
machus. ihe mjft interfiling lcflons are herp
conveyed hi the vehicle of an interefKng Poem,
replete with the fiueft touches ©f the true pa
thttic, and embelifhed with ail the graces of a
beautiful ilyle. The fatal efTecfU or indulging
the | aflions are exemplified in the mcft Itriking
manner ; and tfyp happiness attending inno
cence and virtue painted in the iivelieft colours.
Whatever can incite to virtue or deter from
vice ; whatever can enlighten the understand
ing, charm the imagination, and improve the
heart, is to be found in this interefling wprk.
THE NAVAL GAZETTEER;
Being a complete Geographical Di&ionary,
containing a fulj and accurate account, alpha
betically arranged, of all the countries and isl
ands in the known world ; ihowing their latit
ude, foundings, a»d stations for anchorage ;
with a particular description of the feveralßays,
Capet, Channels, Coves, Creeks, Currents,
Cults, Harbours, Havens, Lakes, Oceans, Ra
ces, Rivers, Roads, Rocks, Sands, Shoals,
Sounds, Straits, Tides, Variation of the Com
pass &c. Together with a particular relation
of the flupe and appearance at Jea, of the seve
ral Headlands, Ifihmufes, Peninsulas, Poiuts,
Promontories, and whatever is ofufe or impor
tance to the Master, Pilot,. Commander, or
Seaman sf any (bip or vessel, in navigating the
watery element.
Also Comprehending
Ample Direiiions for lailing into or out of the
. different Ports, Straits, and Harbours of the
four quarters of the werld ; and for avoiding
dangers on the varitx* and extended coasts ; in ,
which more than twelvethoufand diftinift names ,
of places, are treated «f and explained. With i
a correct set of Charts, i vols. Bvo. price 6 dels. •
By the Rev. JOHN MALIiAM,
Sj? This has been pronounced the most ufe
ful aud the cheapest book published in America.
June q, dtf.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School fpr young Ladies.
MRS. GROOM BRIDGE with much pleaf
ureand rd'peft, returns J;er fmcere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
Tne has received during four years refideace in i
Philadelphia ; and allures her friends and the 1
public, so far from intending to decline her f
ichool, (he has made a fupcrior arrangement for 1
the more convenient accommodation of her 1
scholars.—Every branch of ufeful and polite \
education is particularly attended to by Mrs. |
and mailers excelling in their c
rcfpeiSivc profeffions. \
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets. f
June s th, 1797. ' Jimftf f
The Qtuatiun is perfeflly healthy ; and made
more agreeable by an cxterifive garden and lot 1
of ground adjoining the hoiil'e.
For Sale, [
ON boar*! the ship Mollv, John Frost, master t
from Liverpool, laying at WalnUt-fcreet wharf c
6000 'oulhels of fine ftoved Salt, '
And QUcLN'S WARE, well alTorted,
By PHILIP NICKI.IN isf Co.
WHO HAVE IN STORK, ALSO KOR SALE, c
100 Boxes WhiteHavanna Sugars 1
Imperial and ) „
Hyson )
17 tubs Quicksilver t
1 chelis Bandanno Handkerchiefs I
A few cheits Manchester Goods well assorted t
in corduroys, thicksets, ginghams, muflinets, <
dimities, &c. 1 Trunks black sewing Clk, c
180 Crates queens ware, w ell assorted,
10 Tons flieet lead, 1
Nails assorted, Hat antl (harp points, (
London particular and i Madeira Wine in r
India market 5 P'P es a "d h'nli. t
30 pipes, 10 hhds. Tenerifle Wine, 1
10 pipes choice Port ditto,
31 casks yellow paint, '
7 boxes 12 bundles writing slates, 1
1 box ink-fiands & note presses,
Sail canvas assorted No. 1 a S.
Miy 4. dtf '
f
Millinery Room,
A'o. 136 Market-fine?.
MISS CHRYSTAL t
'"("'AKES an early opportunity of acquainting I
A her Friends that (he has received by the '
William Penn, a variety yf NEW MIL- 1
I-INER.Y, &c. which (he bepes to be able to J
(h»w them in a few days.
May iS $ jo t
A FEW BOXES OF
Bologna «Sausages,
OF A Q/ALfTY,
To be fold at No. :9Q Front-' treer.
eoif
The Commissioners
' carrying into effect the TWHNTY-FlßflT
> X Article of the Treuty of Fricndlhip, Liir.i>,,
> and Navigation, between His Catholic M.jcftv
aad the United .States of America, h«reby girein'-
i formation to all Petfon# thei ein concerned ,-iXfca',
'!! °\ir 10 ua "' mtc ay difference*. on account cf
r Ihe lefts luftaiaed by the Citizens of the uAtcd
States, it; confequrnce of tiicir Veffch and Car
goes hav.og b-en taken by the Subj e a»of Hi's Cath
olic Mp jelly, during the late War between Spain
and France, that they arc ready to receive (ct th.-te
OHtcr, between the hrtur*o! ten ahd one o'cla.k,
daily) all complaints and applications, suthtrized
>y the fuid Article, during Jmghtisfn Montis
' I OBI tile day of the d.:te hereof, and that'they have
power to examine all In eh persona as come before
them, ou oath or affirmants, touching the com
plaints ir. question, and also to receive in evit'esce,
all written teflimoey, authenticated in such mJn.
ner a» uicy mall think proper to require or admit
By Order of the Comrmjjttjpfrs,
PETIiR LOHR A.
' _ SecreUiry.
C mm\lpo<tfrs Cpt-fi, ho. 109, Mulberry
reft, Philadelphia, May i-ti/, 1797.
v itvf
The Comiiiiflloners
carrying into efftfi the fiith article cf the
A. treaty of amity,commerce and navigation, con
cluded between his Jnunnic majesty and the United
States of America, en the 19th day of November,
1794, having.this cay contained their Board'
purfuat:t and agreeably to the fajd treaty, do here'
by give notice, that they are ready tq proceed to
hufinefs accordingly; and they desire that all claims
under the said article (which so far as the fame de
scribes tit cases thereby provided for, is hereunto
annesec) may be lodged with their Secretary with
out delay. \
They further defirethat all such claims tnay not
only Itate in what manner the feverai cases come
within the description of tflcftid article, but alfb
specially set forth Jie nature of the eviScnce by
which the claimants refpeilively unoertake tofub
-I'tantiatc tht; fsme.
Exirait- from the feid article,
" Whereas itjs allodged by divers Br;ri(h mer~
" chants, and others his majeftv's fubjeits, thai
" debts to a cocfid. rabU amount, which were bona
" fide contradled, before the peace, frill remain
" owing to them by citizens or inhabitants of the
" United States; and that by the operation of va
« rious lawful impediments, since the peace, not
'• only the full recovery of the said debts has been
" delayed, but also the value and security thereof
" have been in feverai inftanccs impaired a»d less
" cped, so that by the ordinary course of judicial
" proceedings, the Britifli creditors cannot noiv
" obtain and a&ually have and receive full an &
" adequate compensation for the losses and dama
" g« which tney have thereby fuf ained: It i« a
" greed that in all such cases where full compenfa
" tion for fnch losses and damages cannot for what
" ever reason be aflually obtained, had and recei
" by the said creditors in the ordinary 'course
of justice, the United States will make fall and
" complete compensation for the fame to the said
- creditors: but it is diftin&ly understood, that
" this provision is to extend to such losses only as
'• have been occasioned by the lawful impediments
" aforefaid, and is not to extend to losses occafion
-1" ed by such infoivfticy of the debtors or other
«♦ causes, as would equally have operated to pro
" duce such loss, if the said impediments had cot
existed ; nor to furh losses or damages as have
•• been occasioned by the manifeft delay, orncgli
'* fcd'cc, or wilful omiflion of the claimant."
By order of the Board,
GRIFFITH EVANS,
■ ' Secretary,
Philadelphia, Commifßoners' Qflice,
No. 3 l'outh Sixth-street, May 29,
1 791- J 6-§ f m
~ L
SUBSCRIBER having been appointed by
X. the Envoy Extraordinary and M nutter Pleiii
potentiaryof his Britannic Majesty, General Agent
lor aflirt.ng Bntiih crrditorj, and iucb particular a
gents at they may fpcrially authorize, in prolecuiii, r
their claims before the csmmiffioneis for carrying in
to ess.-st the sixth article of the Treaty of Amity, Cm»-
mtrce uvd Navigation between his Britannic MajeJly ani'
the United States of Jmerice, hereby gives no. ice that
he has opened hi»offr e,ac his house the foutli eall
corner of Chefnut and fifth, streets, Philadelphia,
where he is ready to receive all claims orinttruftions
for with the vouchers aud documents thereof,
for the pnrpofe of bringing forward the fame agree
ably lo the rules and o tiers which the board m*y
think popcr to prefciibe.
And as it will be tor the intereil of alt concerned,
that the feverai claims be so dated, and support.
rd, as-to prevent the delay which would ariie from
llie oeceffity of obtainuig lurtner iiuormJtion, or ad
ditional materials, from perfonsrefiding at a ddunce
the general ag-nt ihniks it his duty to add, the'
dircflion chiefly of these, -who, not having employ
ed particular agents, may leave the prolccution of
their claims to his charge and, management) that alt
luch claims in particular to fei lorth
id. The proper defcrip-t on and (itnation of the
creditor or claimant, «:>d original debtor, refieff
ively.
»d. The date or nature of tlie original contract or
debt.
3d. When, in what mariner, and to what extent,
the creditor or claimant was prevented or impeded,
by the provision, operation or defect of law, the
decifionsandpraftice of courts, or rcflraint of exe
cution, from recovering payment of the debt in
question. ,i
4th. The loss and dam?ge incurred or . fnftaiaad,
in confcquence of such impediments, whether ilm
fame may have irifen from the infojveney, change of
fituatron, or deaili of the debtor, the loss of legal
remedy from lapse of time, or otbercaufes impairing
the value and fecmityof the debt, which wou!d not
have lo pperated if such impediments bad not cxilled.
And sth. The partiqular grounds and reafoi.s 0.1
which the claimant mainiains, in the terms of the
treaty, that '• by the ordinary course of judicial pro
logs, the creditor cannot now obtain and aftually
have and receive full a.id adequate compensation" lor
the loifes and damages so fullaiued. *
The general agent thinks it his dutv farther to fitj
grft that the f veral claims ought 10 be accompanied *
and supported by the affidsvits of the claimants duly
sworn and regularly atteften', both as to the exifler.ee
of the debts claimed, and'fuch other circumftsnces
at may bewith'ti their own knowledge refpc&ivcly.
ind .. erever the claimants in dating the nature of
their evidence (which mull in every inltance be tho
belt of which the' cafe is capable) have occasion lo
refer to the telfimouy of wiineffes, it will be proper
to apprise the general agent of the names and places
of rcliderci otfuch witneflesand the faftito fee efla
blilbed by their test mpny.
Wm. Moore Smith.
Pniladelphia, June 8;h, 1797. dim
New-England Rum,
In Hoglhe-*dh and Barrels, for sale by
E'ZEKJEk HALL.
June • 4t. N .
[Volume XI.%i>c&alette. A Z
. ■ I ■■ cut
PHILADELPHIA, , ? lc
, IB*
THUIWiDAV eVEMWO,
Meffn. TbOma» Mdrris.of Qntaria conn- fin
ty, be
Seth Phelps of OnSndajp county, and : ;th<
Michael Myers of Herkamer county, arc gl;
tlefted Senators to Reprint, the WelLeru it-
Uiltridl in the State of New York. The di
above gentlemen are Federal th
We can assure our Traders from good an- St
thority, that, although the Democratic tic- id
ket was fuccefsfulin the GityT-f New York, si
the State generally, has made a judicious ti
election ; and that,. probably the majority
of Federalists will be as two to one.
SATS A-COR kESPONpENT. dr
The elcftioi) of Mr. Parker of Mafia- w
Chufetts, a member of the House cf Rep- re
fefentatives of ths United States, in the
place of Mr. Dearborn, is anuth Br tri-.
I'MfH OF FEDERALISM. •
FROM A CORRESPONDENT.
. w -*■■ -6
tn Bac'ne's Aurora of lafk Saturday, I e 1 :
offeree, under the Frederick-Town head, y
an extract of a iett'er from a member of Con- <*
grefs, which asserts, that " a vessel jutl arri- ei
Ved an account that the business of «
the Commissioners for fettling spoliations is t<
certainly j said to be in cOnfe- ©
qn'ence of certain principles being fettled ti
which the British Commifficners did not
like ; on which account thfy withdrew It
tliemfelve» from the board ; and that the ti
British Mjniftry will not fuffer the remaining li
three to go on with the buiinefs." b
The \fhole 0 f this intelligence is so noto- v
rioufly falfe, as to render it almofl beneath c
contradiftion. The late decision* of that v
board which have appeared in various news- n
papers are however the bell refutation of it. si
A. B. i
MX. TENVb, 1
' _» .d
COMPLAINTS have been frequent p
during the present Session of Congress, re- g
lative to'the reporting of their debates, but c
I believe no speech has been worse, if any, c
so badly reported', as that of Mr. Dennjs. h
The sense is not only in many important, c
particulars greatly perverted, but it is in fe- i
veral parts rendered perfeftly nonsensical f
and unintelligible. One example will fuf- I
sice. Mr. Dennis said that a gentleman <
from Pennfylvar.ia had said, : that it was not i
to be expected that the different parts of the t
Government, like a Clock, would operate f
in perfect unison, but that one part was in- t
tended to differ from, and controul another, i
As reported, it stands thus—" according <
to an observation mad*, the Government is i
like a Clock, that if one part does not do 1
its duty, the other parts, will compel it—"
T.he speech has evidently been reported by '
an unfliilful hand, aud.can only be accoun- i
"ted for in this way, th?t as it was delivered i
■mme'diately after the Houf&jvas called, the
bell reporters had not probably taken their
places. . . ' '
The following may serve to elucidate the
opinion entertained by the. Government of
France itfelf, as to the solidity and duration of ■
i Republican Governments in France :
Extract from the Meflttge of the Directory to the
, Councils,, concerning the oath recommended
to be idminiflered to the Ele&ors, dated in
March lift.
" Such is the present situation of the
Republic as to: leave' no doubt that b'oth the
partisans of royalty and anarchy equally
rely on- the approaching elections for the fuc
cefs'of their criminal designs. Each party
is striving to get their accomplices elefted.
Tliis plan is developed in the papers found
on the late conspirators. On the other
hand, liberticide-writers preach up openly,
ROYAL ism, invite resistance to the laws, and
heap obloquy, calumny, and on
every thing connefted with the Government.
They publish and disseminate apologies for
the Emigrants ; in short, the retue tic
may be faidto become a problem, and to
judge from the audacity of its enemies, we
MAY BE ALMOST PERMITTED TO DOUBT
OF ITS EXISTENCE."
COMMUNICATION.
IN the debate in the House of Reprefea
tatives on the answer to the President's
Speech, and in the course of discussing the
defenfivc measures proposed by Mr. Smith of
south Carolina, it was said by the French
party that France hat nothing to fear from the
Untied States.
France, it may be seen, has to far,
iftly. The deprivation of those supplies
of various kinds which she has heretofore
received by American veflels, and through j
the medium of American merchants, and ;
which are ejintial to the prosecution of the j
war. I
2dly. The clamours of her allies, Spain j
and the United States, from the injuries ;
they must experience, should she oblige
them to adopt similar measures to those she
is pursuing.
3dly. The critical situation to which she
will reduce Spain in particular, should she
drag her into the war, considering that the
fate of the Fl*ridas and Lguifianq depenti up
on her retaining the frioidfliip of the Uni
ted States. _ / •;
4thly. The certain loss of the Weft In
dia i(lands from a want of our provisions,
and intercepting their supplies, which mult
inevitably throw them into the hands of
Great Britain.
What, on the other hand, have the United
States to fear from France ? It is not pos
sible, that, in the present situation of th*
French Marine, there can be, ffJred from it
1 detachment -ad.quat: to m -ike a i>p'iinpref- i "
fioH or.~tfce United' States, feould the mea- j
tures of defence .reeorwnended by the Exe- ;
cutive be adopted-. It is well known that j
(he ■ennnot furnifh a fleet to protefl hsr Weft '
India islands ; can she then fend a fleet that ' h
could materially distress the Uni.ri State; ? i
Admitting h<jivcvei"that (he may nwke :
fiich dn attempt, would pot the armament ; ■
be thought '-tj - England to be destined for
;the Weft Indies ?' least tmift not En-
gland'aft-npoa that filppofiWon ? And will
it-not therefore be watched 1 / intercepted, or . a )i
dispersed without much tir any agcijcy on t'j
the part of tlii United States. * ," a
Such being ill: position of the United n "
State's, as relative to France, the moll j'- isa f \
iflue may be expected from negociation,— f«|
SHOULD SHE GEE THAT OUR PREPARA- ,of
-TIONS ARE CALCULAT«D TO MEET WiR. an
BOSTON, June 7.
The Committee on the Governor's Ad- co
drefj, reported an answer, which being read j tic
was accepted, and the fame committee -di
reified to present it to hil Excellency.
THE ANSWER. \ !»"
w
>tAY IT PLEASE YOUR EXCELLENCY.
YOUR address to the Legislature gives "
.great fatisfadtion tothe RepresentativeS, and
e'xeites the molt pleasing expeftations from t,o
, your adminiilration. With pleafurp do we &
offer you our congratulations on being elett- J?,
ed the First Magistrate of this Common
: wealth. An appointment equally honorable t0
; to you, and our conflituents, as it has pro- oi
. ceeded from a just estimation of your cha.- G
I t after,.
It is the Angular felicity and high privi- el
lege of the people of the United States, w
: to live under conftitution9 of government de- v.
j liberately frapned, and solemnly eftablilhed c:
g by themselves ; which are administered like-
. wife by men of their own choice. The fe- (.
i curity, the freedom, and the happiness
t which ihefe conftitutionshave afforded, can
. not fail of having produced an nniverfal affd
. strong attachment to them. The unrivalled
profperky which our country has enjoled,
for several years pad, is undoubtedly much „
to be ascribed to the eftablifliment of the set
deral government, and to the wisdom, and c
t purity of its tdminiftration : While we re- *
- gret that the beloved and distinguished fellow ,
t citizen who presided over that adininiflrati- t
, on has retired to private life, where we trust t
. he will continue to enjoy the blessings of his c
t. countrymen :* We are happy to recognize
- in his successor, citizen of Massachusetts, j
I so eminently confpicuoua for his talents and ;
- his virtues.. His long ekperience in_ politi- i
i cal life ; his approved integrity and patriot- 1
t ism ; and his great abilities justly entitle him 1
e to the highest esteem and confidence of his (
e fellow-citizens'. Our relation to foreign na- ,
- tions appears critical and important. The i
. unjuftifiable depredations which have been 1
$ committed on our commerce by the Bellige- ,
s rent Powers, and particularly those which
o have recently proceeded " from a great na- ,
'' tion whose friendfhip we highly value, and
y whose happiness we have not ceased to wish
i- for," cannot be'cortfidered without the mod
d serious concern. On this interesting occa
e fion the President of the United States has
ir funimo'ned the National Council, and point- ;
ed out so them for their consideration the
. rm'funderftanding which unhappily exists bet
e ween the Goverriftietlt of France and that of
if this" country ; " ami has fignified his intenti
f on to institute further negociation, in brder
if possible to effeft an accommodation upon
honorable terms. 'To those of your excel
',e lency we unite dur fervent wishes, and we
II cannot refrain from addingour confident ex
n peftation that theft overtures may be cro'wn
ed with That in the magnanimity.
Ie of the F re nch nation, and in return for ni
just and liberal policy on the part of our own
| y government, we may find indemnity for the
c _ losses we have sustained, and a restoration of
the haimony and good will which formerly
subsisted between the two republics. To_
1( j the wisdom of our national government the
er people have afligned the consideration and
decision of this, with their other important
1( j national concerns, and we are confident we
3JJ speak the language ofour conflituents, when
we fay, they consider, in anjt reverse of for-
0 * tune, a firm support of their Federal Gov
1C ernment as the sure, the only means of eo
to joying and securing their national happinefs
,E In any event they will never be separated
T from the government of their choice. The
rights and liberties, the freedom and inde
pendence of America, have been dearly pur
chased, and will never be surrendered to a
ny power on earth.
tj. A cheerful fubmifiion to the laws, and a
t' s readiness to support the civil magistrate in
he the constitutional and legal discharge of his
0 j duty, is indispensably incumbent on every
citizen, and is the only method by" which
! lc we can receive the full benefit of our free
and happy political institutions. The esta
blishment- and encouragement of such inftitu
ies tions as -tend to diffufe ufeful knowledge ;
ire t° promote industry, religion and virtne is
gh of the firft importance and we doubt not of
nd | your ready co-operation in every measure
he ' that may subserve these valuable purposes.
1 The" enjoyment of a free government effenti
lin i ally depends on the enlightened morality of
ies • its citizens; While exercising our thoughts
ge ; and everting our best abilities to establish the
Hie peacS and promote the prosperity of our
country, we trust, we shall never be unmind
fhe fulofjour dependence on the Supreme go
vernor of tlie Umverfo,- no;- of his signal in
thc j terpofitionsi in behalf of the United States,
up. but ever acknowledge them with heart-felt
ni- ! gratitude, and look up to him for wisdom
jto direst us in all. our measures. Your Ex-
Ia- : cel'tncy will permit us to add, that enter
ins, | tafningan X'gh sense of your fitmnefs and
uft ! impartiality, we repofe'fuch implicit confi
of i dence in your assurance, that in your civil
| and military appointments, so important to
ited the prosperity of the Commonwealth, you
>of- ' will invariably consider virtue, attachment
the ! to the conflitution of our counti-y, and the
n it , love oforder as aaiong the firft qualifications.
ri — mi itnMi<ww—tn;
CON riNU.-i TION OF (la
Foreign Intelligence, ki
j From London papers hy tlx 1 eltmudjUs.
* a p
The General in Chief of the army o{ Italy, te bis ftg
, * royal M. Prince Gharfc*.
j . Head-Quarters, ClagL'ftm, iJth Oetminal,
cth year of Republic. 31)
M. Gemrffci in Chief, t °
. ' Br 4ve ibldfcrs make War, anddcflre Puice His A
not the war laltcd for fix years I Hav»i we not kil- I u
I -ied mgp and committed eVils enough ftifiei- Spi
iftg humanity ? Such arc the exclamations uftd on VV ,
I* - alt fides,. Europe, who had taken up irrna againfl 1 h
1 t'ae FrencL republic, has laic{|them down. \ovr A®
nation alcn« remains ; and yet blood is abotit to
1 'flow more than ever Tlx'ftxth campaign is an
nounced under the most portentous auspices. What
c «-Ver Ittay ke the re fait, m*.nv thoufandsof gallant
- soldiers must llill fall a (Orifice in the proftTUtiOii
», of hortilities. At some period wc must tome t*>
an lince time will biinjj alithings
to a toncjufion, and extirguiih tlx* most inveterate -
rcfentmcnts. «
The Executive Dire&ofy of the French republic
i- communicated to his-lmptrial niajefty thejr inclina
d ! tiou to terminate a conflict which desolates the two Wl
[_-i countries. Their pacific overtures-were-4efcated b<
by the intervention of the Britiih cabmet r Is there u £
no hope, then, of accommodation ? Is it eiTuritial
to the interefls, or gratifying tp th.: passions, of a
nation far removed fioni the theatre »f war, that
we lhould continue to murder each other ? Are not gi
you, who are so nearly a'liid to the Throne, and p(
w.ho are above all the despicable paflions which ga-
nerally infiuencefMinifters and Governments, *m-
bitious to merit the appellations of 4 * the Benefac
-11. tgr q!" the Human Race", and" tKc Saviour of the
r e German Empire" ?Do not imagine, my dear Ge- fr
neral, that i wish to indnirte that you cannot pof
ilbly save your country by "?jTcc of arms ; but on ar
J the supposition that the chances of war were even
to become favorable, Germany wiU not fwffer less .
>- on that account. With refped to mylelf, gallant 111
j- General, if. the overture which I have now the ho- rc
nor to make to you, could be the means of (paring
the life of a (ingle man,l fhtuld think mylelf proud
l" er of the Civic Crown to which .my interference
s > would entitle me, than of the melancholy glory
c- which could result from the moll brilliant military "
:d exploits. F
e- * y Oll to believe me to be, Gcne'ral in
Chief, with ientimcnts of the moil profound re
fpedl and eileem, &c. V.
fs (Signed) BuonapartF. f
n- FROM THE COURT GAZETTE. «
VIENNA, APRIL f. ll
The present war, of which the unavoidable con- p
j fcquence has bepn the deftrudion of so rr aiiy lives 1 , q
• has given the greauft unealinefs to his Imperial
-h majelhy, from the time of his accession to the
e- throne* Penetrated with a fefrfe of his.duty, and J
compaiHon for his fubjt<sb| and animated with the
wifli to reft ore plenty and prosperity to all hU he
reditary ftatcs, his nifajefty has never ceafod to de- j
vile such means as might put an epd to the calami-
ti" ties of war ; and it was wiih the utmost regret that
lft he saw all his endeavours fruitlefs, and himfelf in c
consequence obliged to exert his utmost force to de- "V
/e fend his dates and fubjeils the attacks of c
the enemy. Anxious to spare the blcod of his lub- t
ts » jeds his Imperial majesty flill wished for peace even .
rid
at the moment when his arms were most signally I
ti- victorious. His majesty has now likewise given '
jt. in charge to the undcrfigneJ, the Freddent of t
j Lower Austria, to c immunicate to the public the ]
~ the xnoft pe&tive aQurance that he is now employ- .
3 ed in the most ear«e(t marner, in hastening the •
la " conclusion of peace. But though his majesty will
he negle<& norhingjwhich may procure the blessings ]
en of a speedy peace to his hereditary states, he trusts 1
with confidence, that lhould the Enemy, dallied ,
» . by the changeable fortune of war, contrary to j
c " what we would hope, arrogantly reject all recon
la- ciliation, or infill on extravagant conditions, and
nd such as are difgraccful to the Austrian nation, eye
i(h iy faithful fubjeft, mindful of the duties to which 1
he has sworn, will exert bis utnjpft efforts to ob- ,
tain peace, by a courageous defence of his country,
ca " and will contribute all in his power to preparations
jas w hich;the extreme emergence may render neceffi- '
nt- ry for the falety of the capital; andjjthat the brave
;li e inhabitants of Vienna will Ibew no lets courage <
and loyalty than their glorious ancellors, who, ua- 1
. f der Ferdinand and Leopold 1. on'the walls of their
. City, fought and conquered-for their religion, their
it'" fovercign, their country, and their honor. -
der (Signed) Francis, Count SauraO, ,
ion PrefiJent of Administration in Lower Austria.
Vienna, April 4, 1797.
PARIS, April 12.
ex In the fitting of the Eleftoral Afiembly
vn _ of the department of the Seine, of the 23d
; t * Germinal (1-2 th of April) the president re
r ceived a letter from Boiffy d'Anglas, an
wn nouncing (lis acceptance—lt concluded in
t jj e the following manner:
io £ «« Have the kindrurfs, citizen president,
, r j to inform the assembly, that if, in the courje
To of this memorable, and too often cruel revo
tjle r lution which we are called upon to terminate,
lnc j it has not been poflible for me to prevent the
ant frightful evils that have accompanied and
we fulli'ed it, it has been my only desire, my
[, en only hope and ambition, to do all I co\ild
f or . to heal the wounds, to make the result Ufe
ov. ful, and to make the reign of wife and hu
en. mane laws and well regulated liberty succeed
e s s . the disorders of the revolutionary anarchy
ted which has so long tormented France."
The letter was read twice, and loudly ap
l(jc_ plauded.
BERLIN, March 24.
The Spanish minister in this city,, the
1( | a chevalier Borghefe, has been recalled by his
.j u court. It is said that his recal has been oc
• ],; s cafioned by the complaints of the Executive
, ery Direftory, relative to the conduft of the
,; c ], chevalier, who has constantly visited the
f rcc French emigrants, and has spoken most dif
■fta- refpeftfully of the French republic.
" U * LONDON, April 18.
, e jg His majeily's (loop Bittern has Uken a
tof ' ar g e fti'P of 800 tons burden, bound to Ga
(•ure diz from Buenos Ayres, in the south Teas ;
,f es _ had been out 80 days ; valued at 80,0001.
, nt ;l She had on board when (he struck I4chefts
yQ { of silver and one of gold, which are now on
board the Bittern. The chief of her cargo
J t h c consists in bnffaloe hides, copper and furs.
our The Hants county meeting to be held at
iind- Winchester to-morrow, to confidcr'of a peti-
EO , tion to his majesty, for the difmifial of rr>i
jj n . nifters, will be, it is supposed, more r.nme-
Uc , roufly attended than any limilar meeting on
former occasions. Both parties mufier high
dom ral, k» fortilr.e, and refpeftability ; the op
j7x. posers add to their lift the marquis of Win
ner. chefter, the earls of Portsmouth, Garnarvon,
anj Temple, and Northslk ; k vifcounts Middle
on.-_ ton, Hood, and Symington ; lords Stawel,
c ; v ;| Potchefter, .and Rofihill; hon. G* Pitt,
llt t0 hon. J. T. Town (head, and near 150 other
y OU noblemen and gentlemen, all determined tt>
ment S' ve m ' n '^- er their decided support.
1 the Lately was married Mr. Goodwin, author
ions, of a pamphlet againlt the inftituuen ©f Ma
trimony, to the famous anthoiela Miv».,Wol
ftoiiecAft, who wrote in support of,the
Rights of Wojnen.
A beautiful passage of TaiTo's Jeixifalem tui
appears extremely appropriate to the present P 1
Itetc of Italy.. It is thus tranflatei by the L
elegant Mr. Hoole ' P r
'• Sh;ill tlien a lavage race, whose b irbarom mind
No rcafon govf-ms, oU 1 no law. can liind ?
Shall thtfe, tdf-niate fljll "f wealth and blood, .
lay oh our willn g th- l.rVile load ! C<
S»th are theJufferings and th' icCultiug ftorn, Q
Which seven long years our j.affivc tra.r, borne:
That diflanr Rome may fclufU to hear our ih«me,
And future time/- reproa. h the Italian name.
April 26-
King't Fijhtr, Tag as, th
March 30,1797. 111
sir, P'
I beg leave to accju&int you, that ye Iter
day morning, Oporto bearing E. N. E. dif- at
tant sixteen leagues, we discovered a brig to
the weft ward, Handing towards us. At nine t
A.. M. we perceived (he had tacked, on 01
which I made fail in chae'e, and at a quarter w
before four P. M.' came up with her ; when,
after exchanging two or three broadiides, a.
(he struck, and proved to be Le General
Privateer, of Bourdtaux, pierced for 18
guns, but mounting 14* four and three
pounders, and manned with 114 men, one
of whom was killed, and three wounded.— 1(
We had not a man hurt. She had been out
fifteen days, and had taken an English brig, P
from Faro, bound to Falmouth.
Le General is exceedingly well equipped,
and is said to be a faft failing vessel, but had
loft her fore top-gallant mail and bowsprit
in the late gales, and was fleering to Vigo to
repair her damages.
I have the honor to be, &c.
(Signed) JOHN BLIGH.
A mail from Lisbon arrived yesterday,
having- been brought to Falmouth by the 0
Prince Adolphus packet, in twelve days. (
" Lisbon, April 3.
" The Alexander man of war arrived c
here fafe with the convoy on Friday last, and e
failed this morning to join admiral Jecvis's
fleet, which failed on Friday. It is re- {
ported that the Spanish fleet was to leave j
Cadiz on Saturday last " 5
THE NEW DEPUTIES IN
FRANCE.
As the manner in which the Legislative 1
Body of France is compofcd, must naturally
have a powerful, influence on the conclusion
of a general peace, and" as in this '.point of .
. view it appears to us-important to Know the
f. charafter tkroew eledted deputies, we in
' tttid t'6 lay b(!fpe? our readers a tries notice I
I - of; the principles and-paft condudl of these 1
| depu ties, 'tfcat thty may be able-to .calculate
f the change in tlie>.£pirit and system of; the
: French" government, which the. renewal, of j
■ the legislature is likelj* to produce. Several
; inaccurate accounts of the" new elefted- de- :
s puties of Paws h?ymg appeared in the.pub?
s lie prints, we. <h»ll begifl -with giving'an" '
• exaft description of the irroft prominent
' features of their charafter and former, fitiia
j tion.
fleurieu (ci-devant chevalier) was a mem
-1 ber of th acadejny of sciences at Paris ; one
- of the most able officers'df the ancient royal
• navy, and minister <of the marine under the
4 reign of Louis XVI. who-appointed h?m
e tutor of the young dauphin. He is a man
e of known honesty and modei-ation. His
- brother Mv de la Tourrette, perpetual fecre
r tary cf the academy of Lyons, perished in
r the riiaffacres commit ted in that town.
ffiuriuais (ex-count) who, as well as.the
former, has been appointed a member of the
council of elders, is pot to be confounded
with" the chevalier de Murinais, his brother,
y ex-member of the'right fide of the conllitu
i eiit of assembly, who at prefect resides jn
- London,
The new deputy, formerly colpnel of the
n regiment of dauphin infantry, and afterwards
Marechal de Camp, has always displayed in
■> his conduct prudence, firmnefs, and mode
e rate principles.
Debonnirres, eledled member of the coun
cil of five hundred, was formerly .one of the
e aioft virtuous, honest, and able advocates of
d the ci-devant parliament of Paris, and was
y ilniverfally refpefted. ■ .
d Emmery, son of a Jew at Metz', and coun
r- f e llor in fhat town, was at firft one of the
most Violent members of the left fide of the
d constituent assembly., But tin his feeing that-
V assembly degenerate into a fadlious body,"his,
revolutionary zeal .began to slacken, and he
j- \v-js afterwards considered as one.of the most
moderate deputies of the left fide, and he
has ever since belonged to the-clafs of citi
zens who wiih for the return of peace and
ie order. 1
is Gfuatremere de Quincy is known by the
c " part he afted about 18 months ago, at'
>' e ] iea d of one of the fe&iorts of Paris in the
ie a ff a j r of Vend'emaire. His good conduit
ie C aused him to be condemned to death by the
f-1 sanguinary tribunal which the direftory
j ere tied on that occasion. But he was after
wards honorably acquitted by the lawful and
constitutional tribunal, which the public
a opinion forced the direftory to charge with
a- the revision of his trial. He is the author
1 > of several well-written letters against the re
-31. moval of the mafttr-piecCs of the arts out of
fts Italy, a man of chaca&er, and amateur of
3n the fine arts.
5° As to Boijfy d'Anglas, likewise elefted
deputy to the council of fi\e hundred, both
at his zeal for the return of good order and the
moderation o"f his principles, are too wed
known from his past conduct in the
le " tive body, to need any comment.
on The choice of these deputies clearly IheWr.
(jh the citizens of Paris, tired of the revo
;p- lution, have ele&ed such men as they think
in- mo st proper to reft ore peace and order.
>n, LONDON, April 24.
It- Mr. Pitt's crim. con. has npt been confi
el, ne d to Threadnee#eftreet only, his intrigues
11, have lately ruined the reputation of anctbtr
ier Old Lady at Vienna,
to discovery is at length hiadeof the mean
ing of an expreflion of Mr. Burke's, whicii
lor has long been hid « from the wife and pru
la- dent." It is now discovered, that fafcr
rtrwiry.isthe " cheap defend »t nation* J"
A CJwoct Council wa« held at Lord
GrennUe't Downing ftrcct, on Sa
turdoy, at which {lie Lord Chancellor, Mr.
Pitt, Duke of Portland, Earl Spencer,
I, ar d Grtnvillc, Mr. Du.ndas, &c. were
prefcnt, which fct upwards of three hours,
on account of the urgency of the business,
wlucii was the convention on board tHe fleet.
1 After the deliberations of the. Cabinet
Council were over on Saturday, at Lord
Grenville's office, Earl Spencer? accompani
ed by the Lord Chancellor, left town for
Windsor, at whiijh.place the reiVof the Ca :
uinet Mini Hers arrived atfeveno'clock, where
they met the king. A Privy Council was
immediately held, which was not over till ■
past nine o'clock, when ah order of Council
was parted under his Majesty's Sign Manual, .
and to which the Great Seal of England .
1 was affixed, granting an indemnification to
I the Delegates who signed the Sailor's Petiti
} on, and ,71 affurahce thnt their demands
I would be recommended to the two houses of
I Parliament by a Royal meffagc. As'footi
as the Meeting broke up, Mr. Powell, the
1 MefTenger, left Windsor, with difpatcfies
I containing t,he pleasing intelligenbe to Lord
I Bridport at Portsmouth.
I The Privy Council consisted of the ftl*
I lowing members :
The King's Moll Excellent Majefly in
I person.
I The Lord President,
The Lord Chancellor,
I Earl Spencer, \
Duke of Portland, .
I Lord Granville,
I Lord Walfingham,
Sir Stephen Cottrell.Clerkof the Council,
POUT SMOOTH, April ip.
I Several persons 011 board the fleet have been
I puniQied to-fky for various-offences. A/aiLor
los the Koyal William was flagged by crew •'
J for theft, and fcvenl Others were ducked.
I A council was held of all the admirals and
captain of the fleet, on (hore, this day, prcfid-
I ed by Lord Spencer, and, it it reported, that thff
I petition is to be complied with, by granting an
; addition to their pay, and allowing them the t
I fuU werght of 16 ounces, inltead of >2, to the
: 1 pound.
To the Right Hon. and the Honorable Knglts,
Citrzens, and Burgesses in, Parliament atfan
\ bled,
THE HUMBLE PETITION •
» Of the Seamen and Mariners oftboifd his Ma
" I jelly's (hips, in behalf of themselves,
[•• humbly SfiIWETH)
1 [ That your petitioners,, relying onthe candor
* J amd juflice of your honorable house, make bold
e I to Uy jheir grievances before you, hoping, that
-f when you' rcfiedt on thetn, you will please to'
e give redraft, as far a> your wisdom (hall deera
. I r.eeeflary.
..We beg leave to retpind your august afliynbly
C 1 tb»t the ait of. parliament passed iijtbe reign of
e . I King 'ChafleS U*. wherein the wages of; all sea
s j jiien ferring on board his spajeliy, s.fleet Was ■■
il I Tut lei,. palled at a- time the'necelfaries tfc .
•- I life andfl9psof every denorauiation were at least
. I 30 per ceni cheapen .than at the preYenc'time.;
which enabled l'eimen and mariners, ttrprcivide
I better for their families, than wegan now do ,
. 1 with oiifr half advance. ' <■
l " I We therefore request your hori,hpufe will hi'" 4
I so kind as to revise the ail before mentioned, -
1- I a«W make ftich lamehdmrnts therein, as will tu-' _
e I able your petitioner* and their famtfitfs to live inj
J I tn« tame comfortable manner aj stamen arid t
£ | ißirifiers did ai that time. ,
I Your petitioners, with *ll humility, laid their
" I grievances before the hon. earl HoWe, and fiat
n I tere'd- ourl'elves with the hopes that his lortifhip
s I w#uld have been,an.advo«ate for,us,"af We have
:- I been repeatedly under Kin coiiiou&d, atd madi
n I the British flag ride triumphantly over that of
I our enemies. But, to our great Jurprife, we
„ I lind ourfclves unprotested by him, who h.'.s
,c I fet-n so many inftarfce» of our intrepidity, iu
| carrying the BritiQi flag hito every part us the
" I leas with viflory and fuccefa.
r, I We profefs ourlVlves as loyaltoourfovereign,
1- I and zealoui in defence of our ec untry, as the
n I army or militia can be', and efltem ouclilves e-
I qually entitled to his m-jefiy'* munificence,
I tbereiore, with jealousy we behold their pay
\ I augmented,-and-their outpeniioiis at Cheilca.
* s I ci4tcge- encfeafedi to thittem pounds per an
n 1 num, while we remain negledted, and the out
-- I penfiimers of Greenwich have only It ten pounds
I per annum.
ii-| We,_your petitioners, therefore husibly im
le' I p.lore that you will take these miners lot# confi-
VJ deration, ai d with your aecudjjmed ggodnefs
3 I and" libtrality' tompiy ith theprayer of this
as I petition—and yourpctitieners,a£in duty bound,
I «nlf evtf pay, &c. . .
rl " I We, the",delegates of the fleet, hereunto Cyn
le I" " ot;» names for the (hips'company,
ie-l RopJ-George, Valentine Joyce—John Morris
at-1 -<%iaen. GharJotte,. Patrick Giyr.ii—Johs Udlefrm
lis 1 KoyqlScverfigi,-]oitfit Greeu'-Jphnßici.ardlou
le I London, Alexander Harding—William Kuly
>lll >atr i l 'k I^ugan—JoJm Betheir
' I t)uke, Mirhaal Adams—William Anierfon
. I Mart, Thomas Alien —James Blithi'
tI " ] Marlborough, -John Vaflia —Willyra Senator
id I Ramities, Charles.Berry —George Clear
J Rolrujf, David Wilfon —John Scrivener
he L'lmjctui ux, John Witna-, William Porter
S e Defence, George Galway —James Uarerick
|! Terrible, Mark Turner —George Sajked
c l.aP»mpee, William Potts —jaines Melvin
Minotaur, Dennis Law.hr —George Crolland
" e Defiance, John-Sauuderb —John lit,{hand,
ry '
:r- To the Right Hcnorabh the Lord. Commnnffion
nd ers'of the Admiralty.
j- e MV LORD,
, We, the fcamen of his majesty's ravy, take .
1 the liberty •( addrtfling ycui 'Urfdfhipi, in nn
101 huhrble petiticn—fhewing tlit infny hardfliipt
rc- and oppreflions v.c h(;ve tabored under for ma*
of ny years, and which we l.c'pe your lord(bip»
of will rcdrefs, as soon" as poflihjt.- we flatter our
fclves that your lordihipc, togethei with the
;ec j nation in general, will atknow ledge our -worth
' , and good fcrvices, both 111 the America* war as
'r 1 well as the piehnt ; for which good I'ervice
■he y out Jordfhip't prtitieners d 3 unani>/tobfiy agree
'ed in Opinion that their worth to the nation ai d !a
---- bvicnsipdUiCy in dtfescev-f theip country, de
serve some better-encouragement than we meet
s with at present ;or from any we have
t( ,_ ced. W*, your petitioners, do not hoait of our
, good for any other purpefe than thzt
n/v of putting you antl t,lie natioh in mind of the
reipeft due to ui, nor do we ever inter J to dc -
viateirom our former character, *.-r far from
lsi- ar>y thing of that kind, or that an Er.gli/hnun
ues itmcn Ihould turn their coils, we likewise a
-I,er gree 'hl opinion, that we (hould fuffer double
the hardfl jps we have experienced be
fore we would fuffer the crown of England to
ar j' be in the .leali imj ofed upon by that of anyoth
ch er power in the world; wc therefore heg leave
ru- to inform your lordlhips of the gr'tvancet which .
per we at prelrn: labor under.We, ymr li'niViV petitioners, rttylrij, tint i si
y«ur [ordfhips-will take info ear'ycnnfidrn tion J
the grievances of which we csmplain, arid do j
not in the least doubt bu: ytnuf lordships will
comply with our dc fires, which a»e every way
reasonable. a|
The firft grievance which we have to com- M
plain of is, that our wages a r « 'loo low, and u
ought toberaifed, ;.««r*we might be the belter V
able to Support our wives jmf families in a man- a ,
ner comfortable, and whom we are 10 duty n
bound to lupport as far a$ our vwei wdl allow,
which, we troll, will be looked into by your
i«rdlhip« and the hnriorablt; house of commons c
ir. •arliatucnt aflembled. C
iVe, your petitioners, hip that your lord- cl
Clips will take into conflcfemticn tV.e grievan- v
cet of which we cOmplaiT*, and now la) before
yOU
*l:rjl—That our provifinaj be railed to the "
we-ght of 16 ounces to the pound, and-uf a bet- P'
frr quality, and that our meal'res may.he the J'
flint as thole used- in tlie commercial;trade of j
this country. f j
Secondly—That yOnP petitioners request your jj
honors will he pleafed'ta bbferye, there should C(
be no flour feived while'we are in liarbor, in any
port whatever, under the command of * Brtt/fh
(lag j and alio that there tuij.'ht be granted allu- t }
ficient quanrtty of vegetables of fiiclt kind as 0 I
way be mod plentiful in the ports to-which we w
go j whith we gt ,md lay un- i
del the want of. ~ ■'i .. !"
Third'y har your lordships willbi pleased c<
frriouflv to look into the state of the fiek on at
board his maJtffyYlhips.xliat they mny be bet- V
ter attended to, and they Wayr. have Si
the ule of such as are allowed for
them in the tiTlie of their sickness,, asd that r<
these ntteffaries be not on any account embez- ""
zed. _
Fourthly—That your lordships will be ft kind
»s to io into this affair, which is rio-iX ifc un- f'
reasonable, and thai we may be looked upon as
a number of enfen defence of our (
country, and that we may m some wife have
grant and oppoi funky, to taste the sweets of li
berty on shore, when in arry'Jharbor, and when
we have completed the duty of our Ihip, after p(
CUT return from and that no man may in* e(
troaeh npsn his liberty, there fhillbe a bounda
rj limited, and thpfe-trefpafling any farther, t a
without a written ordAr from tfye commanding p'
officer, ihatl he punifbed according to the rules cl
of the. navy,, which is a natural request, and- gi
eongeftial to the heart of man, ahd eertajnly to si
us, that you make the boait of being the guar- ri'
drain of the land. T
fifthly—That if any man iswnundedin ac- el
tion, his fay be continued until he is cured, and g 1
discharged ; and if any ship has any real griev
ances to complain of, we hope your lordships P
will readily redress them, as far as in your pow-- 01
er, to prevent any disturbances. "
It is also unanimoully agreed by the fleet, 11
thac from this day, r.ogrievances fball-be recei- ?'
ved, in order to convince the nation at large
that we know when to cease to aik, as well as to
begin, acid thatweafk nothing but what is mo
derate, and may be granted without detriment n
to the nation, or injury to the fsrvice. C
~ Given on board the Queen Charlotte, by jj
the delegates ot the fleet, this 18th
day of April, 1797,
LONDON, April 25. _ I
A letter from Milan of the 21 ft ult- writ
ten by a gentleman of known refpe&ability, r
ftr.testhe following particulars refpefting the
fcandaleus conduft of the French generals v
in Italy, whose virtue and generojity we hear C
sometimes extolled in the most entiiufiaftic r .
strain :
" The French owed the Venetians about
28 millions for grain, cattle, &c. as the in- .
habitants ef. the Continental Dominions of .
the republic of Venice had ehiefiy furnifhed !
these articles, the French have discharged 1
this debt by bringing about a revolution in J
these provinces,, which are likcu'ifc sure to
be pillaged in the fame manner as Lonjbar- '
dy. Immense contributions will be imposed '
as the price of liberty ; public arid private
property will be plundered, and all young '
men forced to enhft or fly, that in the latter '
cafe their eflateS may be confifcated. Buona
parte, at the time he signed a treaty of peace '
with the pope, invited againil his holiness
the duchy of Urbino, wffich has lately been
revolutionized. After having induced the
grand dukfe of Tufcany to pay four millions
ps livres on condition of the French garrison
being withdrawn from Leghorn, he has
ordered it to be again occupied a
•whole division. The very moment the llate
of Genoa had ransomed itfelf, all its fubjefts
who poflefs any property in the Imperial
Fiefs, were crulhed with taxes. Prince
• Doria has-paid 150,000 b'vres ; and the
Fiefques, the Balbis, and others, have been
saddled with enormous sums.
Biwnaparte has extorted from Lom
bardy 130 millions in money and merchan
dize* without taking into the account the
spoliations of churches, the pillage of pri
vate property, and the robberies committed
' with arms in hand. Three lours were fuf
ficient for general Maffena to seize 011 the
Mount of Piety and Milan, containing pre
cious effefts to the amount of *IJ millions of
livres, and on the chests of the. hospitals,
communities, &c. The fame line of con
was obfervediy the French generals at
.Bologna, Modcna, and Ferrara. All the
.'.furniture of the archduke Ferdinand, at
Monza, has-been pillaged. This prince had
removed a considerable part of his effefts to
Bergamo, a neutral totvn ; but Buonaparte
ordered them to be carried off by force, and
a piece of furniture worth 583,000 livres,
with which the late queen of France had
presented the archduchess, has fallen to the
lot ps his wife.
" Salicetti has by these means raised a
fortune of four millions; Buonaparte, a still
greater ; and all the other generals and com
initfaries hive coUe<ftcd considerable wealth.
" In addition to the robberies committed,
Buonaparte has received considerable sums
from Genoa, Venice, and the pope, on his
promiiir.g lo.fpare them._ As to the dirc£l
contribution in money, has paid
upwards of 65 millions. As,the capital in
circulation did not amount to more than 2 5
'millions, it became necelTary to discharge the
f oaiinder in merchandize, plate, arid with
money boirfowed at Genoa; Count Litta,
after having paid livres, has.fled for
fearof worse treatment, and count Grepi 11'
to pay 900,000 livres. All tlie inhabitants
of Milan had. been ordered, cn pain of cofl
lifcatiSn and baoilhmenf, to return to town,
and now the permifiioato withdrnv to their
villas is fjM them £br 4000 livres,per month.
Marchell, tlie ct!<britsd • finp;i , having re-
fufed to appear on th- was ordered by J
Buonaparte to quit L om bardv within three
days, and not to return on oain of death."
LN,SPRUCK, Mirth 30.
f he. whole, northern patt^of tht Xy ro ' '• U P in
arrii, boys, men, oU and ari hlflsmn l ;
with ptchforks, pikes a«d pol- 's, to meet the c»te
niy their fury is :xtren:e. Ihe whole aricnal k,s
ueen emptied, 014 and, new i/r»s, every thing
acceptable to the peasants. They are to be caai
niac(Jodfcy'.t.'cunt LehrW-h. J.
March jr. C
Our Ctuation his not altered either for the Setter c '
Cr the worse : the French 41 e ttili at Urixeti, -Mid j M
General Laudehn near Mciran. As the militia tli
creaks daily, it is fiopc'i the French will be pre- hi
vented from rcachiirjj tni< oity- 7 ta
AXlGSßtlfrqH, April 4. ar
According to ittters from the Tyr 1!', dated A- rc
prill, the rising in a nuifsof the inhabitants had
produced nearly loo,ooC men. A very numerous
corps of these Have Tyroliaus had joined General
Laudohn, wi*o v le position is very advantageous, in
afntueh as he can fall upon the enemy's rtar. Hi
therto there have ween only affairs of out-polls, of th
little moment. The French cor|>s uear Botzcil is
ccmputed at 14,000 men.
STUTGARD, April i.
Letters from Infpruck el the 31ft of March,fay
that Coußt l.ehrhach had put himfolf at the head
of the Irvfr m tj> direct their sperations. It
wasexpe>2eil that 011 the ift or 2d «f April, the
French would be attacked on all points, as well
before Sterzing as towards St. 3\ l trail, which Ge- re
neral Laudohn occupies with a corps-os troops, pi
and a considerable number of peafunts. of the
Winftgau, the road from Botzen to Sttrziug, by
St. Mcsan.
We are afliired that the French force in the Ty- P 1
rdl uadcr General-Joubert is at most ac or 24,000 P 1
men.—The.reinforcements ftom the Rhine inarch fr
th.-ough. allburgh without halting: ou the 2d and
3d the regiment of ami 3 battalions «f
the regiment of Wartenflebeii, passes near Aug!- f
burgh. Aultrian engineers are arrived at Ulm, to
conthuil fortifications thereabouts, and principally
at Alichel&crg. r ;
ROME, March 18. Q
A new conspiracy has jufl been diftovered iii r
thiscity. On Wednesday lafl, a great number of L
persons of all descriptions were taken up, laics,
ecdefiaftics, friar's and soldiers. The number of IT
the accused is laid to be 600. Government has n
taken th« mofl. energetic nieafures to destroy the
plots ; the patroles have been doubled; the gates v
of the Vatican have been shut, and have been
guarded by tco Swiss, armed with mufqueis, and rr
furnifhed with 25 cartridges each ; 4 pieces of can- v.
non have been placed at the two principal doors, tl
The Pope's family have sent their moll valuable c
effefls to ferracina, and every individual of it is •
getting ready to take refuge there. - P
The troubles in theMarche of Anconia, and es
pecially in the Duchy of Urbino continue ; a body C
of about 4000 peasants are in arms, and rob and si
murder the travellers; they even threaten the ci
ties. Rimini has been obliged to be put in a (late t
of defence against them, and M. de Arrigoni has
been sent by the Pope to quiet them, if poflillle. P
ARMY OF ITALY. t
Head quarters at Clagenfurt, 12 th Ger-
minal, April I, Buonaparte, General in f
Chief in the Army of Italy to the Execu- '
tive Dire&ory. I
The divisions of Geneial Joubert, Barag-
uay d'Hilliers, and Delmas, put thcmfelyes. a
in motion on the 30th Ventofe, and fur- '
rounded the enemies corps stationed on La- 1
vis. After a molt obstinate engagement 4
we made 4000 prisoners, took three pieces c
of canfioa, two standards, and killed 4096 *
men, great part of whicli were Tyroljan
ChaiTctfres. " '
BA"fTLE OF TRAM IN,
Meanwhile the enemy'had fallen back' a
long the right bank of the Adige, and man- J
ifeiled a disposition to maintain themfclves '•
in this ,situation. Upon the second Ger- 1
minal' General Jcrbert, at the head of the
three divisions, proceeded to Salurno. Ge
neral Vial garried the Bridge of Neumark, 1
and passed the river to prevent the enemy
from retreating to Botzen. . The firing 1
commenced with great vvarmth. The. bat- J
tie seemed doubtful, when General of divi
fion"Duma6, commanding the cavalry, pulh
ed into the village of Tramin,. made' 6<jq
prisoners, and took two pieces of
By this means the wrecks of the
column, commanded by General .Loudon,
were unable to reach Botzen, and are wan
dering in the mountains-.
BATTLE OF CLAUZEN. .
We, entered the City of Botzen. Gen
eral Jonbert did not stop there. He left a
fufficient force to pursue General Loudon,
and marched direftly to Clauzen. The ene
my, availing themselves of the means of de
fence which the country afforded,had made
the best diipofitions. The attack was warm,
and well concerted, and the event long un
certain. The light infantry clambered up
inaccefisble rocks, the nth and 33d demi
. brigades of'infantry of the the line in a
clcfe column, commanded by Central Jou
[ bert in person surmounted every obstacle.
The enemy'# centre being penetrated, they
. were obliged to give way, and the rout be-
came general. We made 1500 prisoners.
p ' General Toebert arrived at Brixen, still in
purfuitof the enemy. General Dumas, at
' the head of the cavalry, killed several of the
t enemy's dragoons with his own hand- He
, wasflightly wounded by two cuts of a sabre.
t His aid-de-Camp, d'Harmincourt, was
j dangerously wounded. This General, for
, several minutes, singly checked the progress
, of a fquardron of the enemy upon a bridge
j and gave time for his own troops to rejoin
him.
j At Brixen, Botzen, and different other
e places, we found Magazines of every kind;
among other articles 30,000 quintuls of
a flour.
j Every where, as well in the Tyrol as in
Cariuthia aud Carniola, the enemy left be
hind them their hospitals. I leave it to the-
Chief of the Etat Major and Commiffiary of
g the Army to fend to the Minister at War
s statements of effefts that have fallen into our
> hands,
d (Signed) BUONAPARTE,
? WALKER fcf KENNEDY,
No, 73, South Front Street,
.. Have for Sale,
' Virginia Tobacco, of thcißichmond infpec
'» tion
350 Mils. Virginia Floor and Middlings
is 500 hufhels Wheat
s 5 ctfkrGini'ang.
ALSO,
Three cases Roucns Linen*, entitled
.* , uiawback
r , »co pietc* Bandanpoes, and
'• jCGcidin India Scwiflg Silk.
Jiiae 15. " - :hsw3t
%\)t <oil3CttC*
PHILADELPHIA,
THURSDAY EVENING, June 15.
- | —T—I 1
Died, lltt'eveninp, after a fr.ort illmfr, the Hon.
JaAes Siddli, Kfq.-Prcfjdcnt of the Ccur( of '
C<"frimin.Ptea« of the (irft Diftridfc. His public
cliafaoler wai unifornVly -marked with integrity,
jtidgment, firmnef* and drcifion. In private life
the father, brother, friend and neighbor law in
him an example not to be elcclled. A warm at- (
tacftmcnt to his country, au unbounded benevolence
ani evety manly virtue, rendered him beloved and
refpu&id by all who him. <
Ho w as an honcft and humane man as ever lived,
£s* H* will b« buried from his late d welling
house to-morrow mornirg at 9 o'clock.
Thurfdsy, June 15, 1797.
Married, on Thursday evening, the Bth in A by ]
the Rev. Mr Smith, Jon* GkArr, Efq to Mil's
Kitti Kusher, both of this city.
C 0 .iV G K E S S.
I (
HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES, | '
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 14.
Mr. Reed, from the Committee of En- 1
rolment, reported the bill for preventing J
privateering, which the Speaker iigned ac- I
cordingly. t
Mr. N. Smith, from the Committee ap- >
pointed for the purpose,. reported a bill to
prevent vessels taken by foreign powers, <■
from ever after receiving new Registers, ex- 1
cept by the original owners, but, though !
possessed by citizens of the United States, '
be considered as vessels of a foreign power. 1
Mr. Potter, also reported a bill for autho- (
rizing the President, during the recess of <
Congress, to provide gallies, or other vef- 1
fels, for purposes therein mentioned. i <
Both these bills were twice read and com* '
mitted to a Committee of the Whole to- '
morrow.
Mr. W. Smith said the Committe of ,
Ways and Means had received some docu
ments from the Treasury Department,—
which they thought ought to be printed for
the use of the House ; they had therefore
commifiioned him to alii leave to have them
printed. Agreed.
The . iioufe again refolded itfelf into a i
Committee of the Whole on the fubjeft of
fortifications, when
Mr. Allen moved to add a clause* to the
bill, to the following efleft, viz. "to em
power the President of the United
to authorize the Governor of the State of
New 7ork. to expend a certain sum, not
exceeding for the purpose of fortify
ing the ports and harbours of the State of
New 2'ork, provided the sum so expended
be placed to the credit of the said State, on
•account of the balance found due from,that
State to the United States, and provided
that that State cede the right of jurifdic
: tiori of the places Upon which such Fortifi
' cations (hall be erefted, to the United
States."
" Mr, Brookes opposed the motion, as be
ing particularly pointed at the State of New
7ork.
Mr. Havens proposed an amendment to
at, which was to make it apply generally to
all the debtor States, instead of confining
it to the State of New 7~ork alone.
Mr. Harper seconded the motion, and
Mr. Allen conferited to have it incorporated
in his proportion.
Mr. Skinner advocated the motion, and
denied that it operated in a particular man- ■
ner upon the State of New Tork.
Mr. S. Smith was in favour of the mo
tion. He wilhed the business of fortifica
tion to be gone into effectually, by securing,
every principal port in the Union, and not
that final! sums- (hould be (pent here and
there which could produce no good effeft.
If he were Secretary of War, therefore, he
(hould think it bed to expend the whole
75,000 now proposed to Ve appropriated,
on the' fortifications on Mucf-Ifland, as he
did not think any particular exigency at
present called for partial measures.
Mr. Williams agreed with the gentleman
last up, that attention ought to be paid to
-all the. fnportant ports in the United
States ; of course he (hould be in favour of
the amendment ; and he did not doubt but,
rather than be continually stigmatized with
being debtors, the State of New 2vrk
would consent to lay out the a (Turned debt at
the Narrows, thu' he believed, they would
not like the way in which the business had
been done.
Mr. Brookes was opposed to the motion,
as the debtor States would be deprived of
, all advantage from the 75,000 dollars ap
propriated ; he also infilled that the debt
said to be due from the State ps N- T'ork
. to the United States, ought riot to be drawn
into the prefeut discussion, but if it were to
j be considered, it \vould be proper to let the
. fubje£l (land alone. To do othervvife was
5 making an odious diftinftion to the difad
. vantage of New 2'ork.
be uncluilti To-Morroiv.^
r GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
! «
Pout of Philadelphia.
ARRIVED. DAT#
1 Ship Adraftus, Pease, Hamburg, 6s
" Brig Betsey, Parr«<ck, Curraeoa, 21
Eliza, Peterfon, da. 3c
Mary, Marner, St. Vincent's, 2<
r Sally, Venn, St. Thomas, 2;
r . Rambler, Johnson, St. Domingo, 3<
Schr. Eagle, Hall, Cape Froncis, 11
jenny, Anderfon, Gonavies, 2>
Sloop Mary, L'H omme^'eu » N. York, 1
Harmony, Elwood, Alexandria, I
Polly,"Eldridge, Petit Gauve, 2
Dolphin, Dick, Norfolk, <
Sally, Potter do. .
CLEARED.
Ship Philadelphia, Bliss, Hamburg!
Diana, Pile, Liverpoc
.Jenny, Dill, C. N. Mol
1 Schr. Fortitude, Taylor, N. Y<jrl
Two' Sifters, Welch, N. Carolin
Sloop Jane, Green, N. Yor
'George, Jackson, dc
:h»w3t
~ The Adraftus, Pcafe, left Hamburgh the !
Bth of April ; the (hip Hulda, Warner, of S.
thl< port, failed four days before for Nur
folk, and the (hip Kensington, Ker, a (hort I i
tirhe before for London. Left St Ham- de
burg the (hips America, Ewing, of this '•
port, to fail in three weeks, Active, Blair, ; N
do. Roebuck, She well, do. for N. Ycrk do. j
John, Jackson, do-, for India, Roebuek, of fr<
N. York, do. Mary, Bollon, two wetks, —
Bariug, Beach, of this port, from India. lei
The brig Ann, Moffet, and the schooner
Boston: Clark, both of this port, were at Bi
Gonaives the 25th ultimo.
Nttu-Yt,. ', Jure 1-3. mi
ARRIVfI). DATS
Ship Gloriana, Webb, " Dommico 11
Ruffel, Abeel, Port auPaix 18
Hope, Dunn, New-Orleans 23
American, Baxter, . Cadiz 45 qj
BrigTothill, Lovett, St. Croi* 26
Fanny, Monroe, Grenada 28 _
Lark, Arnold, do. 3 1.
John, Hunter, St. Croix 20 [ rc
Sch'rMaffachufetts, Burnkam, Antigua 32
Sloop Prudence, Mobby, Jamaica 26
Letters received yesterday from New-Pro
vidence, mention, • that the (hip William, q
Dockray. from the Havannah, bound to this
port, with- sugar, had been sent Jll there on f rc
the 27 th of May, by a privateer called the
Swallow. f rr
These vessels, it is said, are captured un
der suspicion of having Spaniih property on r
board.
The (hip Alfred of Boston, cjpt.' Afg'jith,
bound from Lilbon to SaiFee, with 1 iccj dolls. P 0
on board, was captured by a Frenit privateer, f
who took oat the money and put it in the priva- -re
teer, and put men on board t« bring >ier into
Ceuta, but on the »4eh "f April wis captured mt
by admiral Jervfe, who liberated her and -Jelir
ci the captain to go to Cadiz to seek redress for jyj
the money, and on the night of the 6th, the
captunran the (hip on (hore 6 miles to the south* -
ward oi Cadiz. I'he captain and crew on their
arrival at Cadiz, were put in irons in the castle,
called Santa Pietr .
SALEM, June 9. r-i
CADIZ BLOCKADED.
_ qu
Capt. John Barton, /rom Cadiz, has fir,
politely handed us the following :
Hts Britannic MajeJl/jJhip Captain,
ess Cathz, iitb April, 1797
Sir,
In consequence of the unprovoked Decla
ration of War from his Catholic Majesty &-
gainll his Britannic Majesty and the British
Nation, it is found right that Spain (hould .
no longer have any trade.
I have therefore the honor to acquaint
you, that no neutral vessel (hall hereafter be jv
fuffered to enter or leave the port of Cadiz,
without having obtained my permission or
that of the Commander in Chief of the '
Britilh Fleet—that from this moment Cadiz y
is to be considered as a Blockaded port. ■, a
I have the honor to be, &c._ - T
HORATIO K^LfeONv
To the D?ni(h Consul, '- , .
NEW-YORK, June 14. -' T,
Yesterday afrived here the (hip America,
capt. Baxter, in 45 days froirr Cadiz.—. .
Capt- Baxter informs us, that the Spaniards
were fitting out in that harbour, a fleet of
33 fail of the line, besides 15 frigates, and
7 fire-lhips, with the greatest expedition, •
insomuch that the workmen in the" nayal
■yards and on board the (hipping were work
ing double tides—that the newly appcinred
admiral Don' Mafferado, was a great favor
ite with the crews, to whom he had been p
peculiarly kind, in recommending an entire ' n
new dock of provisions, &c f and an advance
of 30 dollars per month, which the Gov. 1 !
erpment complied with—that .this Fleet was
,to be joined by 7 French and 7 Spaniih-fhips
of the line from Cartliagcna, and that when
this jupftion was. made, they were determi
ned to attack admiral Jervis, and drive him
from the Mediterranean, or perish in the at- "c
tempt. It is said that the King of Spain I
is so highly incensed against a number of the 1 J
officers of the late fleet defeated by admiral (
Jervis, that he is determined to puni(h them <
1 severely. The Santiflima Trinidada v/as
' nearly ready for sea, and is to make one. of i
[ the above fleet. It was said thewhole would
' fail from Cadiz in 20 days.
' On the 26th April, capt. Baxter passed
' through the fleet of Jervis, who were
L then blockading the po* of Cadiz, consist
: ing of 22 fail of the line arid 5 frigates : he
* was ordered on board admiral Parker's (hip,
' when, after a ftritSl examination, was per
mitted to proceed. The firft lieutenant of
» tjie (hip informed him that before the fleet
' left Lilbon, the Portuguese had sent an am,
" baffador to Paris to treat for peace, and that
1 he expe&ed they would not p erfhit the Bri-
I tifli fleet-to enter their ports for the future.
II On the passage capt. B. was boarded by a
0 French privateer, and treated politely,
e
• s American veffel»lying in Cadiz harbor, when
capt. Baxter failed;
Ship Mary Ann, J. P. Smith, of Phi
ladelphia, from Saffe—cargo wheat.
Ditto Mary, Thomas Powers, of and from
Boston-—(laves, linens, beef and pork.
Ditto Glasgow, Berry, of and from Phil
adelphia—Flour.
». Ditto Fabius, John Corran, of Philadel
-12 phia, from Amfterdam—ballait.
4 Ditto Fox well, Alia, Stevens,of and from
;0 Pepperelborough—(laves, boards and plank.
19 Ditto TriaJ, Joseph Israel, of Boston,
13 from Madeira—SpaniflihiJes.
;o Ditto Fame, Benjamin Harris, of Bof
-9 ton, from New 2'ork —Haves. , «
:o Ditto George William, Wm. Toung,
j6 Providence, from Lilbon— Codfifiy
ft Dkto Henry, James Wilbur, cf Phila
-3 delphia, from Hamburgh—ballad.
4 Ditto Thornjs Hnffeyv of and from New
4 Tork, staves entirely.
Brig Fair' American, John Eves, of
rh. Philadelphia, from Madeira—Spaniih hides.
01 Ditto Brothers, Sun-.ncr, of and from
ilc Boston—bees, pork, butter, &c. _
rk Do. Independent, I. Robertfon, of it)d
aa from Philadelphia—n?.val (lores for Algiers,
rk Do. Georgia Packet, Harr;uhn, of Sa
,o. Irm, froris Charleftf n—rice.
1 Do. Eliza, Win. Tvfugford, of and frcitii
Salem, beef and other provilions.
Do. Eliiabetli, John Gardner, of Phi-
ladelphia, from London— for fruit—•
detained.
Do. Union, JoUri bf and
, X T ew-7ot-k.
i Do. Union, John Robertforl, of and
from New 7'ork.
Do. Harare!, John Drnmtnondj- cf Sa
lem, from. ■ Charleilon-—1? ice;
Do». .Cyrus, front.
Boston—Flour and Staves. "
Do. 'l'wo Friends, Morrel, <$ Ports- " »
mouth, (N. H.) from Norfolk—Stavca
tnd Flour.
Do. Bunkers Hill, Matthews* of Bos
ton, from Madeira—Spanish prisoners.
Do. Eliza, Graves, of- Bolton, from
QibraltSr —fulphut and -
Do. Sail*, Toi. Eldred, of R.ho<2e Island
—from Lift on. Ccdfifti.
Schr. Speedwell, John Bucklin, of and "
from Boston. Provifldßfl*
Do. Unity, Bowers, of and ff-om New- -
buryport. Provisions. •' . •
Do. Freedom, John Benton, of and'from- . ,
Charleston. Rice.
Do. Hero, Caivin Perkins, of Duxbury,
from Edenton. Staves entirely;
Do. Sally, John Holman, of SsJerrf,-
from Charleston. ,
Ship Diana, Laisdell, Pepperelborough,
from Norfolk.
Brig Mary, Robert Jenkins, of Newbury
port, from Norfolk—(laves and flour.
Schooner Nabby, John Hafkell, of and
from Gloucester.
Ship Mairmaid, John Tilton, of Ports
mouth, N. Hi from Londoii- 4 -ballaft.
Sloop Peggy, Henry Leader, of Briitolj, .
Maflachufetts. s
Ship Gtfego, J. Hacker, df and, from
New-york—not commenced laqding^^^
To Let,
THE BOH Dl N f> now occupied by the Bawk. ... j
of thi Unjtio Statej. For terms en
quire of'EdWard Garrigues, No-39, Cherry-ftrtet.
N. B. Also a Urge, convenient Cellar in a good
fi'Ujfion : Apply as above.
June 15 f dtf
Lailson's Circus,
The Public are refperStfutly informed that
The Performances at the NEW CIRCIJS,
THIS EVENING, June 13 ,
Will begin by a Grand Parade of Equeftria*
Performers of both fuxe», and
A grand display of Horfemanfliip,
By Messrs.. Langlcy, ' Herman, C. Vafldevelde*
Nicholas Cprr6, Sully, (t.he Clown and Lailfon.
Mr. Sully, in the chara&er of Clown, will
perform a variety of Comic Feat*.
Mr. Lang ley will leap over several bars and ia*
I fries of a very great height, in a ftn&le tour round the
I Circus.
THE TA YLOR AND HIS HORSH,
A somie scene on Horfebacck, by Mr. M*Donald.
The eveningV entertainment to conclude (for the %
third time) by a grand, heroical, hiftoiical panto*
• mime,-in three afls, Called # _ y
' " . Pierre de Provence,
" And th« BEAUTIFUL.MAOU?LONF.
An heroical, "hiftoritalPantom'me, in three a£b»
". with new drefles, military. ev®lutions, battles,
- &_c» and three new icenes painted by M.Pe
rouany. It vtiil be terminated by a grand ;
toornamrot, in which fix combats will bc
fought with the fibre, the war axe, thrfvrord
. and the dagger.. .
P.ie.redc Fro»encr, Mr. Douvillrers
Ferjioe!, ' Mr. Jayroond
1 he Kioj of Naoles, Mr.Pouble
Captain of the Gjrards Mr. Poigoand
Mi s i>tlone. Mrs.'Douwlliers.
Knights of the Tcumariicn',—Mr. .Sa iy, Mr.
1 ■ Pnignand',. Mr. St. .Vfa.c, Mr. Vaudevelde, Mr. Jay.
: ' )uvtiiier«.
, i i-y- The Dcorj will be opened at fix o'clock, 4cd
the performance, begin precisely at ball' past (even,
at thr general Teijurit. •
C. E. Whitlock,
I SENT 1 S T,
RESPECTFULLY informs the Ladies and Gen.
tlemen r.f Philadelphiaand its vicinity, that he
-' con iiiuci to perform all on the Teetfi ijup* - -
J pii.s ibe deficiencies of njiuie with wiifitiiloi ual
t eth, in all the vatiuus modes of d\ing—Clears,
" files, regulates, eMfifli, and fills decayed teeth with
1 gold or lead, &c- &c. He wain upon Ladies and
1 GrKtlemeD at ilieir houses, and will be happy to r«»
s ceive their command jby note, at M.n. Fif Clffs, N?.
f 68 north Eighth fttee*, or at his hcufe. next to th»
' Black Horfc Tavern, on the FranWford road,
i Dollars.
Scaling and cleaning 5
1 Artificial tertl'-', with enamel, per tooth, 5 "
Do in gold focketsor fcrrwt 7
® Natural eeth wirh liga'ures 7
> Do un Id 01 ivory locket 1, or gold ferews 10
e Filing and custing away deca>—each decay *
li ling wiiKgeld *
Do. with lead a
F- EBtratting (to the families who employ hiio
if ai dentilt) * y
Do. where not employed * *
Toothpowder'of h.s own preparing s
*"*. firulhes, bell London ma'nufaftart 9J cent*.
It Regulating,- ice. according to tbe opeyat'oo.
J. C Whitlock will fell the time<sf a Negro
Man i—ho is honelt and fob r, ?nd has about 5 year*
" and a half to serve. Enquire as ab6vc.
a June i 4
' >' ' '
THE MEMrERS Of
:n The Philadelphia Chemical So
ciety, '
i- ARE esrrneftly rpqucfted to attend at their Chemi
cal Laboratory, on Saturday nexi, June 171K at 40*
Clock in the afternoon, on business ot
n By Order of the Society,
THOMAS HORSFIELD, Stc'y.
' " June JP
:1 " Buih Hill.
im THE Pyßlic are refpiftfully infoiiped, that tbe
< Gardens will open
CN FRIDAV» EVENING, Jure «6,
my and Saturday. 'he 3 MS, vtth a
CONCERT
Of Vocal & Injiriimcntal Mufic^
Ahct the manoer of the Public Gardens . London;
Pall V*uxh«li r ice. &CjC.
VOCAL fER FORTtRS,
1 Mcff s Darlcy, Sen. Dailev, Jun. Batrs, and
Miss Broadhuift
INSTUMD WT Ai.
EW ' M ffrs. Hopcfieldi Wolfe, Homtnann, Brooke,
Sch iky, Petit, Owiabluth, Morel, DaClarv, &c.
r OrgMiiD, Mr B. Carr. »
0 >, Admittance, Half a Dollar.
es * The Orders to be opened at Six o'clock, ar.d
>m the Cocccrttp begin precisely afSeven.
%• Tickets to be scad and Boxes to betaken ac
D( ] \f>. Carr'smtlficftore, Market-ftrcct.
N B. I*ifkct»of Cmral Admission for thefca«
:rB, fo;i, -0 be had for Twelve Dollars each, at the Bar
a " •; the Buih Tatera.
WAT RESPU3IICA.hipcrlcd in the jlip Pigtu,
Ar.d foi iiiJc by John Morton, No. n6> South
Frontftrcet,
Hvfon }
Uyfon Skin ( _. P , „
YouYig Hyson ( ~'*
Imperial J
A pril 20. 'off
This Day is Publifted,
BY MwiT. Dob'on, Carey, Campbell, Rice, aud the
other Booksellers,
rice One Dollar and twenty-five cent*.
Elegant y printed on H'ov? paper, and Hot
pr'fal
P.v John Tjrthplim,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
'Of the several States with ctujh and with
that of rhe United States: exhibiting in Tables,
• the prominent of' caeli £onftitution, «uud
their most important
under the several heads of administration ; witn
Notes and Observations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Carollnay
L L. D. and member of the Congress of the
United States.
Dedicated to the People of th« United States.
N. B. A few Copies printed on an inferior pa
per, at 3~4thsof a dollar.
February* mwf
j.AiYIEb DAVENPORT
Efpe&fully informs the Citizens of the United
I\.States that he will make Machines for Spinn
ing Hemp, flax, Tow, Cotton, Wool, Ixunufac
turing Twines, and weiving, by wat«r, on the
Jn'ofc reasonable Terms:
A Manufactory on this principle, he flitters
himfeif will nieet with very general patronage, as
the Machines will be made and delivered, complete
ly fumifced, per Spindle or Piece ; nor will any
charge be m'adefor his Pateritßights.but Liberty will
be given to the Purchaser to use them ; the great
inconvenience of employing Workmen in the erec
tion of them will be avoided,and the person wishing
to extend them will be able exadly to calculate the
expence. He engages to set them to work, and
alio inflrud or caule to be any person
qr persons, in any part of the Union, who may
purchase the[e Machines, in their principles and
jiiethod of ere&iori, such purchasers paying travel
ing expences * •-
For terms, application maybe made at No. 74,
Market Street, Philadelphia.
% * It is requeued that all letters may be peflpaid.
June 10 *6t.
Tlffi FOLLOWING VALUABLE
Trails of Land,
11 J the county of Glynn and Hate of Georgia,
will be fold by public sale, at eight o'clock
cn tbe evening of Tuefdav the 17th day of June
next, at the Merchants Coffre-Houfe in this ci
ty, unless previously disposed of by private iale.
ill. 7000 acres on St. Simons Sound at the
confltienceof Frederica and, Turtle rivers, ad
joining the commons of the town ofßrunfwick,
originally granted to John Howell, and within
6 n i!;s of she Atlantic ocean.
id. 35,000 acres on the head waters of a
branch of the great SattillS, originally gftnted
to Fertliijand O'Neal.
'3d. 50,p00 acres on the waters of tbe little
Satilla river, and of UufTaloe and Alexanders
Creeks ; the great Satilla road paflts through
these lands, which were originally granted to
Ferdinand O'jNeal.
4th. 50,000 acres on the great Satilla river,
which are also interfered by a branch of the 1
little Satilla, and were originally granted ta
Thomas Spalding. '
It appears by authentic certificates j from j
Thomas Davis, surveyor, and from Major (
Hopkins now residing in Philadelphia, that the ,
body of tliefe lands are not thirty miles from 1
the ocean, and principally within tide water ; j
that the Aiatamaha is navigible for boats and
rafts two huudred miles above, and for large •
vefiels within ten miles of them ; that they are '
chiefly Srlt rate pine lands, producing timber .
tq'jal in Quality to arty in the state of Georgia,
poflefiing the fame advantagea of navigation, 1
The abovementioned certificates, together with
the patents, drafts, andother papers refpe£Kng
the title, which is Complete and unincumbered,
are in the pofleffion of tbe fubferibers -.nd may
be seen by applying to Benjamin R. Morgan, at
No. 41 Mulberry Streat. Tbe terms of pay- 8
ir.ert will be one third calh, the remaining two
thirds in good negotiable endors'd notes, paya
ble in three and fix months after the sale; a
conveyance to be made t>. each purchaser on the
payment of that moiety of the notes received
from him which becomes firft due.
THOMAS FIT'ZSIMONS,
JEREMIAH PARKER,
BENJAMIN R. MORGAN.
Philadelphia, Mayjj, 1797. eodtf.
PIANO FORTE.
LONGMAN & BRODERIP'j »
ROYAL patent Piano Forte with a green ~
board, an excellent toned instrument. For 1
sale at iv!r. Salters, No. 56, S. Fourth Street. 3
June.io. diw.
A Cow Stolen
FROM the owner at the corner of Ninth .
and Arch streets. She is a deep red 'J
brindle with some white, about ten years bi
old and very gentle. The person who se
cretes her had best turn her out, as, if legal lr
evidence can be obtained, he may expea a b '
rigorous prosecution. TWO DOLLARS e '
reward will be given to any person who will tl
deliver the Cow, or give such evidence a- V
gainst the person keeping her, that he may le
be convifted of the fa£t. Apply at I<3
No. 218, Arch Street. g|
June 9. ' tawgw w
N O T I C E. t
be
THE fubferiber having sent by the fliip Nancy,
Capt. Perry, the following certificates of the t!i
United States bank Hock, to wit : b<
No. 16,005, to 26,014, inclusive, for three
fh»res each—and the said vcflel bavin? been cap- Pi
tured on her intended voyage to EngJand, which or
will most probably occasion the loss of the said m
certificates, gives this public notice,
TTi»t he lhall apply at the proper offices far 3 re
newal of them, and that means have been taken bi
to'prevtnt any improper traus-fer. G:
Henry Philips, an
No. 112, South Front-street.
June T. w6w
Now Landing,
s4t Pratts <lwharfs
FROM on board she ftiip Thomas Chilklcv,
Capt. Rafer, Irom Bourdezax,
CLARET io ca/ks
Ditto in cases
White Wine Vinegar
Ked Skins in boxes Hy
For Safe by pi;
Rundle & Leech. an '
M»J '5 * Jr ,
For Sale,
th JN ELBCANT slNl) VERY COMMO
DIOUS
Three story brick House,
And Lot of Ground tf::rcunto belonging,
IN Arch, above Scvenili-ftrcet, being a hsgh, plea
ant foliation and good The laid
House is twenty-fix feet in trout by 48 tcct in drp:h
with a p.vzza twenty feet in depth, and 1 story kite Hen
;he and pantriei3i feet in depth, in the piazza there is a
commodious flair cafe with mahogany railing, and
theie is also a back flair cafe; laid houle is nniihed
0/ irr a complete and modern stile, with marble
chimney pieces, llucco cqrnices, mahogany doots,
&c. The said '>t u 38 1-2 feet in bresdth, about
300 feet in
is a large brick coach house and flat>!e, well finifhea,
and plautered, a pump of water in the yard,
and about the premises there are many conveniences
Lth tu« tedious to enumerate.
es, The above property wiil be fold clear of all in
ud Cumbranccs, and the lerips of payment made easy to
ns. the purchaser.
ith • For further information apply to
JOHN ELLIOTT CRESSON,
No. 144, South Sccond-Jlrect.
June 9. fm wliu
hc ' For Sale,
5. That tucll Inown piaci, called Vandegriti's
•a- F s R a v,
ON Nefliaminy creek, 18 miles from Phila
ladelphla, on the New York post road,
p containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
L premises are a large two itery stone house occu
ed pied as a tvern, and a good one flory stone kit
n- chen, a large frame liable with a good threihing
c- floor, and some out buildings—also a well of
be good water, and an excellent ice House. 011
this place is a molt elegant situation for a gentle
rs man's fsat, commanding a view of the Nelham
-28 iny to its junilion wiili the Delaware, and thence
e " across to the Jersey Ihorj. It has the privilege
!J! of one half the toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the Sebfcribcr,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
,g- May n.
S Nathaniel Lewis & Son,
n Have for fale'at their flore, No. 70, adjoining
y George Latimer isf Son, Pine-flreet Wharf,
j_ A Quantity of
Madeira Wines
1' In pipes and half pipes'
Madeira Walnuts and Citron, lately imported
in the schooner Sincerity, Capt. Copia
Also,
Puncheons, second and third proof, Well-
India Rum, and a few Pipes of Era»dy
They have condantly on hand and for sale,
■> French Burr and Country Mill Stones of various
14 flies, and a general aflortmenc of Smltiug Cloths of
e the best quality, both American and Foreign ma
* nufaiSure. The former having proved, from fe
:• veral years experience of a number of millers in
e different parts of the United States at least equal,
- and in many instances superior to the European
, Cloths, we hope the manufacturer, Robert Daw
1 son, will meet with liberal encouragement in this
important and ufeful undertaking. He has obtain
-1 ed a patent and exclulive right of making and
J vending Boulting Cloths on his improved plan for a
number ef years, and they are fold only by him
. l'elf in Lan caller, state of Pennfyivania, aad by
t the fubferib ers in Philadelphia.
, June 14 d
' An elegant House in Arch^ftreet.
1 TO be let and entered on immediately, a large and
elegant House at the corner of Arch and Ninth-ft re et
There are two drawing rooms and one dining room
—the largest is 31 feet by 26—and two are so con
nected by fo!ding doors as to make but one. Also,
five bed rooitis, befide'five in the garret, well finish
ed for servants. There are tables and a coach house,
with every convenience for a family. Enquire at No.
29, in' North Seventh• street, or at No. 218, Arch
ftreet.
Also to be rented for the summer season, a small
neat house and garden about 3 1-2 miles from the
citv, with flables and coach house, Enquire as above.
June 6. . saw^W
City of Washington.
SCHEME *
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificent dollars,
it calh 30,000, are s©,®o©
1 ditto 15,000 & caflt 3;,000 4o,oo») <
1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & calh 10,000 30,*00
1 ditto 5,000 & eafh 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & calh 5,e00 10,090
1 calh prize of 10,000 J
» do. 5,000 each,are . 10,000 t
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,000 t
do. 500 - . 10,000 1
00 do. 100 - - 10,000 3
aoo do. 50 lo,oee
400 do. 35 - - 10,000 '
1,000 do. a® - 30,000 c
15,000 do. 10 - 150,000
16,739 Prizes.
33,x6i Blank>". t
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 490,000 f
N. 8. Tofavour thofewho may take a quan
tity of Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be s
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last "
but one : f
And approved notes, securing payment in either
money or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, wiH '
be received sot any number not less than.3o tick- f
ets. '
This Lettery will afford an elegant specimen ef "
the private buildings to be ereSed in the City of f (
Wafhingron—Two beautiful e'efigns are already a '
(eleded telr the entire fronts on two of the public
squares; from these drawings.it ispropofed toere£l f,
two centre and r our c»rner baildiiigs.as soon as pof- p
fible after this lottery is fold, and to convey them, li
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in 'Y
the manaerdefcribed in the scheme for the Hotel fv
Lottery. A nett dedudion of five per cent, will i<
"be made to defray the necessary expenses of print- '
ing,- (fee. and the surplus will be made a part of
the furtd intended for tbe National University, to
be erected within the city of Washington.
The real fecgritiesgiveo for the payment of the
Prizes, arc held by the President and two Direil
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at .
more than half the amount of the lattery.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
Tickets may be had at the Bank ol Colum
bia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter
Gilman, Boston ; of John Hepkins, Richmond ;
and of Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry.
mwf
This Day is Published,
jiud fold by H. isf I. KjMMERF.it, jun. No. ca
24, North Third-flrcet, also, by Mr. Hen'
zr Sifeitzer", No. 85, Race-Jlreet,
(Pricehalf a Dollir neatly bound)
The Man of real Senfibilitv ;
Or, Zfe HISTORY OF SIR GtU-ISON. 7,
Fvur.dtd on f.iii,
£3* The elegant Edition of the Eltmirts if Moral. .
tiy, is two vols, illuftiated wiih twenty copper- S'
plates, may also be had as above, price, full bound w
and gilt, iwodollars and cents.
H & I. K junrs. have on h?nd 1 qiuntv of No-i
and 1 Writing Paper. ' p
Lancaster, Uarrijourgb, Curhjle,
Soippenjhurg and Sunbury
STAGES.-
5 ' I S HE public are requ>?fted tottke notice, that
-L tlic partneHliio which lias f®r fojnetime fub
a_ iiilctl octweon Mathias Slough ot Lancaster, and
William Grer, is now dissolved; hHt, not as M.
:h slouch infmnates to the public without just cause ;
;n as will more fully appear by a letter on the l'*b
a je& from M. tfloujh to W. Gecr, dated the 29th
id ■ December last. a ol which is aot now deem
d ed necessary. Aoy gentleman who wiflics tp be
■le mere'circumftantially informed the nserju of
s » this by applying to W. Geer may have
at rhe perulal las M. Siouj/h'* Uttcf, and then can be
° y l at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
» Geer is not .perfedlly juftifiabie 111 attaching, him
•' felf to any other perlon irf the profecutiop ot the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shipbenf
urg, or any other place.
[0 Now from the liberal and. generous support the
public ware pleased to confer on the firft efFort in
this bxifinefs, Vviiliani Geer, hi conjunction with
Messrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention anddifpatch that a 2-cai tp. oblige the pub
lic can pofllbly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
j with carriages, horses, and every appurtenaflce to
S render the psffage fafe and commodious, inform
thoftf wno wilb to patronize and encourage the
a- undertaking, that they can take their leats at
d, George Weed's, the lign of the White Horse,
ie Market Street, Philadelphia, cn every Monday
12- and Friday, to proceed to Lancaifcer, Harrifb'urg,
t- Carlille and Shippcrilburg. The fare as hitherto
eftablifiied.
0 f For the further accomm«dation oi the public,
> u a Stage will start every Wednesday from the house
of Samuel Elder, in Harrilburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
, e and return from thevee and arrive at Harrifburg
" every Saturtkiy, so that passengers dellined for
' Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed oti Mon-
WILLIAM GEER.
Laticafter, Jan. 47, 1797.
N. B. This Line Stages llarta from the
house of William Ferric, in Lancaster, on every
' Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
\g ceeding to the westward; and from the house of
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrtfburg every Wednes
day morning, oh the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick _ Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns
from thence on every Thursday : performing the
fame routine daily as in its tour from Philadel
d phia. mwf
STICKNEY's PATENT slitCH B&fDGE.
ANY person desirous ©f information refill
ing this new conftru&ion, may obtain it
withoat delay by application pr. letter, or oth
erwise, to John Stickney, merchant of Worcef
ls ter, (Mafiachufetts) who will make known
'* the many advantages arising from this manner
of building, and upon application he will cither
vend a patent right, or attend ptrfonally to fu-
I perintend the building of any bridge required,
n June ip, 1797- *c.oaw.
A New Work.
PROPOSALS
i For printing and publishing, by fubfeription, The
! History of Pennsylvania,
' TN North-America, from the original inflitutien and
JL (tttlcment of that province, under the firft propri
etor srid governor, William Finn, in 1681, 'till
after the year 1742; with
AN INTRODUCTION.
Refpefting the W. FENN,
Prior to tiie grant of that Frofince, and the reli
gious Society of the people called Quakers; with the
1 FIRST RISE of the NEIGHBORING COLONIES.
more particularly ol WEST.NEW-JERSEY, and the
' Settlement of the DUTCH and SWEDES orf DELA
WARE.
To which is added,
A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SAID PRO
VINCE.
And of the general (late, in which it ileurifhed,
principally betweeD ihe years 1760 and 1770. The
whole including a variety of things, ufeful and in
terelfing to be known, refpefting that country in early
time, &c. With an appendix.
Written principally between the year« 1 ;Be,
By Rcbert PkoVD.
" Pulchrum e/l leritficcre reipublica, etiam bcnciicere
hand abjurdvm ji t vel pace vel bello claruiu fieri ticet.''
Sal. Catalin.
" Sedcum pleriqucarhitrentur res Mlicas majores eje
quamurbanas, mtimendae/l hue opinio."
* Cic. Off.
(Entered according to law.)
41 WILLI AM PENN, the great legislator of the
Quakers, (in Pennfylvpnia) had the success of a con
queror,in eftablifliMgand defending his colony, a
mong favagctribes, without ever drawing the sword ;
the goodness of the most benevolent rulers, in trea
ting his fubje&s as his own children ; and the tender
ness of an univerlal father, who opened his arms ro
all mankind without diftinftionoi feft or party. In
his Republic it was not his religious creed, but per
sonal merit, that entitled every member ot society to
the protedtioa and emolument of the State* 0
EJayon Toleration, by Arthur O y Leery.
CONDITIONS.
I. This work will be printed in tw® o&avo vol
umes, neatly bound and lettered, both in sheep and 1
calf, for the choice of the fubfexibers; on paper (imi- 1
lar to that of the conditions, as pubhjhcd in thcSubJciip- '
tion papers. \
11. Ihe head of William Penn, handsomely en
graved, will be prefixed to the firft, and a map or ]
sketch of Pennsylvania, and the parts adjacent, to the \
second volume. ,
lII* The price to fubferibers will be four dollars <
and an half in sheep, and five dollars in calfone
dollar to be paid at the time of fubfciibing, two*dol- ,
lais on the delivery of the fifftj volume, and the re- ,
mainder on the delivery ol the second.
IV. Wfyen one thoufaud copies are fubferibed
for, the work will be out to prefs'and finillied w"ith '
all convenient expedition.
Subscriptions will be received by Zachqriah Poul- '
fan, juo. Printer, No. 80, Chef.iui-flreet, and at the
Philadelphia Librarv in Eifth-ftreet ;by Isaac Col- !
lint. Pi inter, and Jofrph James. Merchant, New- '
York: by John P. Pleafanisand Gtorge W. Field, '
Merchants. Baltimore; and by other pcrfonl bo;b '
in town and country.
/ February 18. tu&f*
Important Public Document. 5
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
And ft-r' Sale
At'the /DlHce of the Editn'r ofthe Gazette of the '
I United States, ,
No, 119 Cbefnut-Strcet,
[l'ltlCl ONE COLLAR AND CINTj] -
A FEW COPIES OF THE
Receipts and Expenditures j
OF mis UNITED STATES, f
for the Year 1795V — £
feeing the Latest Period to which an account (
can be made up. j
February 22. .
PUBLIC NOTICE
IS hereby given to those persons, holding notes
of the fubferiber, that he will renew the
fame, payable in fix years, with legal interest v
frsm the date hereof; and that notes will be o
given as above to all, who may have open ac- v
counts legally authenticated. a
TIMOTHY MOUNTFORD.
No. 294, S. Second Street.
Philadelphia, Juae 10, 1797. ,t.
, Georgetown Bridge Compartr.
Extradl or an a<!l pa fled by the Legilkture of
the state of Maryland 011 the 19th December,
1791, entitled, " Au adl for eveifting a bridge
lC over Potowmac river.
" '• -And be it enaSed, that the said dirtclors or
I any two »f them Snll and may require any sum
or sums of money ill equal proportion from each
and every proprietor, as «iay from time to time
be neceflaifor carrying cn the bmiding of said
bridge; and after girttig three months public
notice, it (hall and may be lawful for the diredt
( tor; \o l'ue for and recover in the ntmu of the
c company tuch unpaid requisition, with all costs
e and charges incidental thereto, and legal interest
r. thereon from the time the fams. should have
1- been paid: And the negleft or to pay any
,s fgch requisition Jfter public notice fliall have
f. been given at least for thtee months in all the
newspapers liei eiii before enumer/fed, fhallhave
1 e tlni efTedt to forfeit all made
n on the there or (hares l'o neglecfU'd or relufedto
h be.paitl to the use and benefit or the company."
d matron of such of the ftoekholders as have not
- complied with the requisitions heretofore made
—they are as follow: On the ift November,
1795, 20 dollars, on the loth May, 1796, 40
dollars; an th£ loth July, 1796, 40 dollars ; on
0 the Ift September, 1796, 40 dollars, and on the
n ift November, 60 dollars. Caution is
now given that after the expiration of the time
limited for the continuance of this advertise
ment (three months) the law will be carried
1 into rigid and complete effedi against all delin
'o' quents.
By order of the Diredtors,
c, WALTER SMITH, Trtafurtr.
C Georgetown, May t, 1797. nwira
" 1 O BE so L 1~,
A valuable three story Brick House ;
r QITUATE in Lodge alley, next to the bank of
i- O Pennsylvania, the lot on which it ltands, to
gether with the vacant lot adjoining, which ex
tends to Goforth-ftreet. The house is about 50
feet in front on and about 42 feet
„ in depth, the adjoining lot is about 96 feet
y front on Lodge alley, and 42 feet on Goforth
-- street, being a ftrect which leads from Chefnut
.f ftrect and into Deck-street at the
- Jiorfe market. The house consists of ten lodg
- ing rooms, with fix fire places, two dini»g
s rooms, one of. them forty feet in length, the
e other about thirty-four feet, each containing
• two fire places, two parlours and. a large kit
_ chen, with extensive cellars under, and garrets
over the whole, a privilege of a vacant lot
- of ground to the eastward between this house
t and the bank, a pump of excellent water in the
- yard, a handsome piazza fronting the vacant
- lot, and a frame flable and dwelling house .on
1 Goforth-ftreet. The premises now rent for
r j£-3'B per annum. To be fold clear of all in
r cumbrances.
For terms apply to John Clement Sleeker.
• April io 3awtf
Muftcal Injlrument Manufactory,
No. 167, Arch-Street.
HARPER, harpsichord, grand, portable grand,
fid:-board, pier table and square piano forte
maker from London, returns thanks to his friends
and the public, for their liberal encouragement,
and hopes that by his afltduity and attention to ev-
I ery branch of his bufinef*, to merit a continuance
of their favors. Piano fortes made on ths newest
and most approved plans, with pediU, patent,
swell, and French harp flop, which h-flatteis
himfclf will ifC found on "trial by unprejudiced
judges, to be equal if not superior to any import
ed, and twenty per cent cheaper. Any inftru
mint purchased of him, if not approved of in
twelve mouths, he will exchange.
N. B. All kinds of Musical instruments made ,
tuned, and repaired with the greatest accuracy
difpatvh, and on the most reasonable terms, to
ready money only.
Second hand Piano Fortes taken in exchange.
May i€ ■ u&xim.
C O T T O N.
A few bales juil arrived, for sale by
JOHN CLARK,
No. 55 North Water Street.
June to. cots.
Received by the Indoftan,
From Madras,
A SMALL invoice consisting of the following
Coalt Goods, viz.
Blue Cloths
Long Cloths, 14 punjums
Do. do. firie
Madrafs Handkerchiefs, and
Book Muslins ,
WILLING W FRANCIS.
Ma'-ch 27. jaw
Venereal Complaints,
PUNCI I TALLY attended to in every stage of
that dileafe, without the use of mercury or
restraint of diet, in any cafe recent and simple. on
application at' No. 113, Chefnut-ftreet, opposite
the United States bank,, or at No. 170, South Wa
tef-ftreet, between Spruce and Pine-ftaeets, where
fee has opened an office for the better accommodl
tion of his patients.
Butin Lues Venerea confirmed, Doitor Morgan
pledges himfelf, that no lyftern of cure (l*>wever
specious) can be cffedlual without mercury, and
that all the known rules of practice for theie two
centuries pad, and united experience affirms, that
any substitute for it is but nugatory, and =ny mode
of pratftice to the contrary mull be futile and de
ceptious.
Nevertheless, he undertakes, however compli
cated the cafe, to effedt a cure without incouve
| nience or injury to the patient's conOi ution, and
in time n»t generally experienced or expected.
N B. Regular attendance at the office in-Water
ftrcet, from the hour of nine o'clock in the morn
ing until one, and from three o'clock in the even
ing until seven ; but any o her time at his dwelling
house, in Chefuut street.
May 16. dtf
just Arrived,
In the schooner Dove, Captain Paul, from St
Thomas, and for sale by the fubicriber.
Muscovado Sugar in hhds- tierces and barrels.
St. Croix Hum in hhds.
And Laguira hides.
ALSO ON HAND, A
Imperial, Hyson, and Sherry and Malaga
Hyson Skin Tea». Wines. 5
Yellow Nankeens. Holland Gin in pipes. 0
Canton Cloth. Do. Cheese. ' fl
Lutestrings. Do. Glass ware. r i
Silk Hankerchiefs. China Ware.
Sewing Silk.. Window Blinds.
Cotton in bale«. Rheubarb. ' l
Peruvian Bark. &c. c '
JOSEPH SIMS.
May ltd. - dl4t. i
The Subscriber, °j
Determined to retire from business, invites all
who have any note, bill, bond or acceptance
of hi», now due, to call for payment ; and those l
who wish to anticipate may rective the money
at a reasonable difcouut. _
JAMES SWAN. i
May 22. <3jw. If
Dorcheft v r, rtarßofloj ; 16th May 1797,
To be fold it Public Vc'Mtfc,
>f To the liigheft bidder, at the hcirfe of Mt.
r> William invars, {he sign of the lridiia~
■c Queen, in the city of Baltimore, on the 35th
' day at' October ne.-.t, at 11 o'clock, A. M.
>r About fc*M thousand acieji of land,
in the property of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
h lying between Reilter's town and Wellrainlter,
le [ commonly called Little Winchester, (the turn
id pike road runs through a cenSdsrjble part of
ic ; thele lands) the begins about 17 mifcs
1- , from Baltimore, within a Hew hundred yards
le of said Reiiter's-town, and extends to the iif
ts tance of about twenty-three miles from Haiti
!t { more, and lis on the main fa!!s of Patapfico
re river, from three to four miles thereon. Will
iy be fold in trails of one hundred aid fifty to
re three hundred acre. There is a large propor
le tion of meadow wood land on each trifl,
,-e fume of, thera highly improved, with excellent
le buildings and fine gr, fs.
IO ALSO,
" A trad of seven hundred acfes of
land, called Clover Farms, within five miles nf
e Bladenfhurg, efleemed very Rood for Graftj
r ' Richard Ponfonby,of Bladenfbargh, will fhe«f
10 thi» land to any person inclined to purchase:
in At-so,
A tract of land of about three hun«
lc dred and thirty acres, within about two mites
p. and a half of thy Present's hoyfe in the Fede
ral City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fine
J. high profpeil, from which may be fceß thi
city of Walhington, Bladenfturgh, Alexandria
and a part of George-town, and manV mile«
down the Potomac river. Mr. Uichard Ponfon
by, of Bladenfl)«rg, will also (hew this land.,
A liberal credit will be given for the greattfi
part of the purchase money, she terms will
be made Renown on the day of sale. 1
)f May 8 wjm
3 * Notice.
A LL perfens indebted to the Estate of SaSah
0 -tJL Marshall, deceased, are requested to make
Et immediate payment, and those that have demands
against said estate, are desired to bring in their ac
>- counts properly attested forfettlement, tq either of
t- thefubferibers. CmtisTorniH Marshall, Jr.
Ie Caspar W. Haines,
5" Akraiiam M. Garsiguej,
g Adminitlrators to the Estate of Saruh Mjirftnll,
ie deceased. June 3 2aw;sw
New Hat and Hosiery Store.
Cs Jnfi Imported)
)t In theflips William Pcnu and Star, from London, and
le no-w opening by
* WILLIAM M'DOUGALL,
" A f his new Hat and Hosiery Store, No. 134,
" ZV. Market street
An elegant alTortmsnt of silk, cotton and thread
1_ Stockings
Silk, cotton and thread Gloves
Pantaloons, &c. &c.
Likewise, a handsome assortment of mer.'s, wo
men's, and children'sfafliionable Hats, fuitablcfor
the Season.
A canfiderable quantity of low and middle priced
Hats aflbrtedin cases, intended for country stores.
1, M »y *3- taw
* Samuel & Miers Fisher,
No. 27, Doc!<-ftreet,
= Have jufl received per Abigail, Babcoct,from
Belfast,
1 T RISI-i, Cambricks, in boxes ef 40 pieces
i JL and 80 patches, each sorted up to 9/
. sterling per yard.
They have also received
' 7-8 & 4-4 Irilh Linens well aflorted
Dowlas and Sheetings,
which will be fold for ready money, or Short
credit, on moderate terms ; together with
a general aflortment of Spring Goods as
usual—Also,
Hnnter's Pipes in boxes
An aflortment of Queens' Ware in crates
An assortment of Gfafs Ware in calks and
crates
T.Crowley, Milfington, Steel
Cargo & London particular '{Vneriffe Wines
Lilbon Wine of excellent quality
Superior Sherry Wines
Patent Sheathing paper.
A few small bales line Cloths neatly aflort
ed, and two bales aflorted Flannels, to be
fold per package.
J ut i e 9* A 3taw 6w
William Blackburn,
LOTTERY and BROKER'S OFFICE
No. 64 south Second street.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 11, which
commenced drawing the 29th May, FOR
SALE. The price of tickets will rife in propor
tion as the drawing advances, particularly on ac
count of the five firft drawn tickets, prizes of
four thousand dollars each, on the last day ot
drawing.
Check Books kept for examination and register
ing. in the Canal, No. 2, City of WaCiingtow, No.
2, and Paterfon Lotteries.
Alio, tickets for lale in the Schuylkill bridge and
Perkiomen Bridge lotteries, which will begin
drawing in the cctirfe of the summer.
The bufmefs of a Broker in all kinds of Stock,
Bills, Notes, Lands, &c- &c. transacted with the
utmost a;tenti»n<
J" ne * tu&f
Chocolate and Mustard
Manufactured as ufiul,
Ginger and Pepper ground
Shelled or Pearl Barley
Bhiladelphia Potter, Beer, Ale and Cyder .
London Porter
Taunton and Burton Ale
Red Port and other Wines, eithe bottled,
or by the pipe, quarter-calk or gallon—suitable
tor exportation or home confuinptioii—*
For Sale by
"John Haworth-
No. 98 south Front ft reef.
May 18 tU4w
For Sale,
At the Ofliee ot the Gazette of the United
States, No. 119, Chefnut.ftreet,
The I aft Report of the late Secretary
of the Treasury 5 being a brief history of the
state of financial concerns of the United State-.
The Proceedings of the Executive
of the Uuited States refpefling the western in
furrefliou ; Containing many and cir
cumstances no where elfs to be found. m
cents.
Ihe Letter of Mr. Pickering to
ourminiller in Franc*. 37 r-» cents. s
An Account of the Receipts and
Expenditures of the United States for the vear
1 7 95 •
A few copies of'the volume for 1794 may be
had to complete setts. '
D'lvernois' account of the Revo.
lutionin Geneva, u i-j.centt.
April 3.