r , *
of %%z a "d Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
'<i'c\iVEn 155^-j
SALES BY AUCTION.
i *
Stated Sales
d R r GOOD s.
f Fcrcn .r.n—Edward t Fox, N«. 56
iJWW , / oluh Frunt-ftreet,
) Afternoon—Footman Co. No, 6
V South Front* ftijeet.
f' Forenoon—John Connelly, Old.Citi
Tucfany< No. 73 fout'n Front-street
j Afrernoon—William Shannon, No
V. IS3 Flig|h-flreet.
VedKefdai -Ailernoon—Peter AenLn, No. 7<
' south Third-flrcet.
Tburfdn* $ renoon —Fdward Fox.
Friday ( F®rcnot>n— William Shannon.
J Afternoon—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon-yPeter Benfon.
Unitfd St.ites, 7 ir
Pennsylvania Didrift. J
ft I'u./uance ot a writ to me direflefl from the
1 honornble Richard Peure, Esq. Judge o: the
pi'liiA Court cf the United State? in and for the
Pennsylvania will be exposed to Public
Sale, at the Merchants' Coffee-houfe, in the city oi
Philadelphia, on Mond\y, the eleve4!tK day of
September next,?t ra o'clock ar noon,
The Br'tgantiiUy calledth&
&Em MARIA,
W a " n g u^ar tackle, ap
parel and furniture as they now are ;
the said having been condemned to pay
Muriner» wac**, &c.
Wm. NICHOLS, MarJhaL
Marfltal'i OiScc, )
Augull 19, 1797-3 -
N, B. Ihe Inventory may be seen at my Offi ee
For HAMBURGH,
>-*-& Copper Bott imed Ship
V KATQUITE, John
"Thompson, Mtfter, now at
> - whaK, and wi.l be rea
'° tJ ' ce "' n on Monday next,
part of her cargobeing engaged
and to go on board. The ship is lo well
known, that it i= needless to defcrihe her. She
is lyiw in rompleat order. F'or Freight or Pas
s ge, p'eafe to applv at Mr J;-rc:niab Warder's
Coniptinr H. use, No. I2> North Third street,
or to the Master on bord.
August
* Fo^SALE,
On board the said Ship, Sweditti Iron, assorted
Hollow and Window Glals, Demyjofcns, Wrap
pwg Paper f;»r Sugar Kefiners. Kug» of 1 & 2
Quality. Please to apply as above.
wf&m^w
White Havanna Sugar.
I4M boxes ) of very superior qtnUity now difcharg
hhds. J ing from the fliip Kamiu'gh Packet,
at Valnut Stre»t wharf—and for sale by
Philip Nick/in S3* Co.
N. B.
THt SKIP f
Hamburg Packet/
Silas Swain, Matter,
Sale, or Charter.
Aug. 34. eotf
~COMMISSIONERS' SALEST
• I T UI Corrrtiiflii.tvers of the counties of Ly-
X coming and Northumberland, have given
notice that they intend to proceed to the sale of
lands, for the arrearage of taxes, on the 7th of
September next.
£jf* The different printers in this city \fill
render an eflential service to a great number of
individuals by publishing this notice.
Aug. 18.
FOR SALE,
BRETAGNES In cases
German Checks in do.
Cainbrick
Plattillas
Oznabriss
Gold and tilver Watches
Window Glass to by 8
Glass Tumblers in cases
Linseed Oil #ce. &c.
/ George Pennock,
103, High-Strut.
. Ju'y s- 3 aw
N O T I q E.
IF Tmeoy O'Haka, who some years fincekept
School at the Nine Bridges, Queen's County, Eas
tern Shore, Maryland, be living, he is hereby re
minded to call on, or write to, the Rev. Ambrose
Marlhal, near Warwick, Cecil County, Eaftem
Shore, MaryJand, from whom he will receive in
tcrcftir.g ins rmation. ,
AugJjt 4. mw&f4w
THE SUBSCRIBERS,
ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GREENLEAF,
HEREBY give'notice, that they havedifpofed
of the property assigned to them for the securing
the payment of the nc - , acceptances, and en
dcrfements given by Hlfward Fox, for the use
®t the said James \ and the holders of
such notes, acceptances, and endorsements, are
hereby notifykd that the fubferibers will fettle
with them for the amount of their refpe<sHve
claims, both princifal and interest, at
any time before the acth day of Oflober next;
after which dav, the holders not applying, will
foe excluded, agreeably to the terms of affign
>nent.
Applications to be made at south-east corner
ef D»ck and Second streets (the Dock-street
(sde), between the hoßrs of eleven and one o'
clock every day, Sundays excepted.
Henry Pratt,
Tho. IV. Francis,
John Miller, Jun.
John AJhley,
Jacob Baker.
Philadelphia, Augu-ft 18, 1797. d_
The Inhabitants of the Diftrift
of Southwark,
A RE informed that a Coachee js provided, to be
Xj- kept at the Constables' oGice, the north east
e»rner of Front and Almond ftre<ts, where the
friends of those sick pcrfons who defireto be re
moved to the City Hospital, are requested to make
application—Also, a Hearse willkskept in reodi
nels for the removal of the dead.
JONATHAN
H. B.— The Poor, who wilh to remove to'the
Tent ß on Schuylkill, may befurmfced with ercfeps
by applying cs tbus». Aug. 29
PHILADELPHIA:
>RY*
To i. Sold at PUBLIC: SALE)
O- oij.Mh i!.:, of .ej teir.ber
ill.i. Ijetwc. . the hours of twelve aiid five
n clock ,a the afternoon, at tiie house of Wm.
, ' B ' cte pßi'> iu '1 teuton, in the Slate of
New-Jersey, that elegant feat called BLOOUS
BL'KY, the feat of the late, j'ohn Cox, Esq.
deeeafed, with the appurtenances ; containing
• 400 acres of Land, wi}h a luitable proportion
of arable, meadow, and wood land. Ihe prin
cipal raanfion heul'c is within a half a mile of
| i ,eoton, and on the river Delaware. The fitu
aiion and improvement of this tltate is such as
to he worthy the attention oF any gentleman
:wi filing to retire frorh the city.'—The terras,
I wiil br made easy, as a great part of the pur
! cliale money may remain in the hands of the
! purchifei far a liberal term of credit, on giv- 1
! ing latistadtory security Attend.nce will be 1
fiven on behalf of the fubferibers, who can '
make an ixidifputabJe title for the premises.
F.Jihtr Cox,
John Stevens,
Matthias Barton.
September 2. dt7th
Excellent Bourdeaux'Brandy 1
Ditto ditt i Claret in cases
Just received, and for Sale by
Rundle £s* Leech.
Au S . 11. lavctf
To be SOLD or RENTED, J
AI. ROE B Story Brick Bouse, on the
South fide of FHHcrr"ftrectf between '
Sight!) and Kinth, lately occupied as the Sur
veyor General's Office. -
Ihe Building is 36 feet front and 35 feet deep, '
the lot no feet deep, with the privilege of a nine *
! feet wide Alley extending the whole length of f
the lot, to a thirty feet wide Court for Carriages
to turn in. The House is not plastered, and
may be turned either into ®ne, or two dwelling
Houses. It is suitable for a large Manufactory, |
or would mike a good TaVtrn. Immediate I f,
pcfieflion will be given, . ; r
Apply to No. 111, Cbefnut-Street. a
Amj. 11. coiUt. ft
to BE SOLD VERr~£HEAY7
A Light W -vGGGN almost new, with a frame—
and a pair of harness (English collars) has never
been used —price 90 Dolls.
A Horse 16 nanci high, seven years aid— and a
new chair, with a falling top and harness— 3 20.
Raqu ; re No. 331, Market-llreet. "
August 24. diw «
This Day Publiftied, ' "
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner »f ~
Second and Chefnut streets,
J*rite 3-Btbs of a Dollar,
Observations on certain Documents so
Contained in No. V and VI of ft
" The History of the United States for
the year 1796," _
In wh : ck thp cH ■ 'Sr or • peculation against r
ALEXANDER HAMILTON, 11
Lite Sccket.mt of the Thiajus, .is FULLY
REFUTED. r "
tr rlrr r. n ar alms 11 r.
Tliis publication presents 1 concise ftatcment c
of the base means praflifed by the Jacobins of the 4
United States to asperse the characters of thofa P 1
pirfons who are cenfidered a» hostile to their difor- w
ga.'izing schemes. Ic .alio contains the eor- w
rtfpondetice between 'Mr. Hamilton and Messrs. d:
Monroe, Muhlennurgh and Venab'e, on the sub- o'
je<s of the documents alorefaid, and a series of let- vi
ters frotv James Reynolds and his wife to Mr Ha- ci
milton, provipg heyond the poftibilily of adoilbt, m
that the connexion between him and Reynolds, te
was the rcl'ult of a daring conspiracy on the part
of the latter a«d his afiociates to extort moxKy.
A discount of one third from the retail price
will be made in favor ot wholefate purchafcrs, for
cash. Orders to be addreflad to Mr Yojtng.
Awrufl 2f^
1 he Norfolk MaiI.STAGE.. hs
'"P'HIS Stage starts from the GEORGE Tavern, '' l
.1 at the corner of Second and Arch Streets, in 'h
Philadelphia, every Titifjai, Tburfday, and Sjtur- m
day, at 3 o'clock, ia the irorning; arrives at f)o- ca
ver the firft day, at Snowhill the second day, at
Northampton Court House the third day, and on
the morning of the fourth day the paflengers find
a fife and comfortable packet to convey th&m to T
Norfolk. ' 1
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton feiry, j\
every Tuefdiy, Thurffay and Saturday, and the tv
Stage starts from this ferry I 'for Philadelphia, every
Moq.ay, Wcdnefday and Friday jiputsup at Snow ~
Hill th-firft night, at Dover the id night, and ar
rives in Philadelphia ill the evening of the third
day.
Thediftance on this route, between Philadelphia g,
and Norfolk, it So miles less than on any stage route
between those places A
Too much cannot be said in fjvor of the road,
which is most excellent indeed. "The proprietors
w llingly engage to return the whole fare to any
passenger, who, after having performed this route,
will fay that h ever travelled in a stage for the fame
d dunce, so good a road in America.
August ix. dim.eotf.
Young Hyi'on Tea. o
40 chefls of a superior quality—Mfo,
100 do. of Hyson,
Imported in the IVoodrop Sims, and for sale by S'
the fublcribers, corner of Second and Pine 111
street.
C. Haight.
June 21. eotf -
Imported in the Jhip Pigou,
And for sale by John Morton, No. H6, South
Front street,
Hvfon £
Hyson Skin ( TEAg
Young Hylon ( J
Imperial J
April 20. to*f
Chocolate and Mustard
ManufaiSured as usual, 'Jj
Ginger and Fepper ground .
Shelled or Pearl Barley ,
Bhiladelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder
London Porter
■ Taunton and Button Ale
Ked Port and other Wines, eithe "bottled,
olf by the pipe, quarter-calk or"gallon—suitable
for oxpartation Or home consumption
For Sale by
John Haworth. Pc
No. south Front street
John Fenno, N» 119 Ch% (hut Street
Mrs. GR A T TAN
INFORMS her f-ifOd;, .idthty ' ; -tir, geryal,
tnac hr 1 o.ii« . r.o 192, , „rv.', 1 eet, win ju
, tin'oe open during the fieknef,.
Board and LodctJlg in a Separate room, t*n
boliaks, iii a double'room, K.r.irr dollJvss,
For the convenience of thoft- gentlem«!i. who
have not thuir, amilies in town, Mrs.XSratr an
will receive gclitlenien to dine at \half a dollar
a ■ l v. - Auvi'ff iq —Ar
T O B" E SOL 1)7" '
And pojfejfion given immediately,
ALAKGE tvio lioiy brick Houfe,handlbmety
lituatedin Princeton. There arc four rooms
and a large entry oq each floor, and five rooms in
the garret, a range of back buildingV 51 i'eet in
length, and a piazza of 57 feet. There is a pump
in the yard, an excelleut kitchen girden, at tin
farther end of which are a carriage h&ufe and two
fttildcs, one of is new, 44 feet long, with
flails in the two (tables for 27 horses. The heal
thinels and pleasantness of its situation, and the
number ef ginteel and agreeable families in ard
near the town, reader it a desirable retreeat for a
gentleman from the city. The commodidu fntfs of
the house, its central position, and the largtyeft of
the stables, make it every suitable for a tavern, for
which it has always been considered as a capital
ftaad. Inquire nn rhe premises, of
ISAAC SNOWDEN, jun.
Rrinc ton, Anjt if 29 —dlwaawi€
COUGHS, COLDS7ASTHMAS,~aad
CONSUMPTIONS.
Just r«ceived, by Wm. Griffithj,N«.
Scond-ftreet, a freih sUpply of
Genuine Ral/am nf Honey t
A by the hte ,5.r John Hill
- * ( w h" knowledge as a Botauift procured him
the appellation of the Linnxus of Britain) and is
•onCtli'cd in England as a certain curt for the abo\e
complaints; it is also of lingular efficaey in the
Hooping Cough,
It nuy be had retail of W. A. Stokes, No.
61, South Second street, and T. STtrr, 55, Ncw
ftreet, in bottles' ar 75 cents each.
Wm. Grifmtbs having observed the happy.ef
le«t of the medicine, (several cases of cures hav
ing come within his own knowledge) and the great
demand fer it has induced him to trder a large
fupp y, a part of which he has just received.
Amgujl 3. iawjw
A Cook wanted.
A WOM a N who underftaods the business and
ein bririp good recommends!ions, may fend employ
and receive generous wages at No. 67,
north Sevrath-ftreeu 1
',<■ *3t
Wanted to purchase,
A pair of flout, well broke Horses, young and
found. Enquire at Mr. Otilers' Hotel, Chefnut
ftreet.
Application must be made immediately.
August t»
Insurance Cmpany'of ficorth America'
THE Stockholders in this company are here
by informed, thtt, pursuant to th<: fifth
clause of their Charter, and at the requcft of *
" Number of Stockholders, who, together, are
proprietors «f Six Thousand Shares, and up
wards," a general meeting of the Stockholders
will be held at the Company's Office, on Mon
day the 15th day of September next, at ji
o'clock, A. H- for the purpose of filling up a
vacancy in their Dirtfliop ; and taking into
eonftderation such Regulations or Rye La vs as
may be prclcnted in conformity with the Char
ter of Incorporation.
EBEN. HAZARD, Sec y ry.
July *O. w&fiSu
The Partnership,
UNDER the firm of FREEM W Is" Company,
is diflolyed by mutual corfent. All persons
having any demands agiin!l tkefaid House are de
fircd to render the fame to T. B. Freeraan ; and
those indebted to iheHoufe are to make pay
ment to him—By whom hufinefg will in future be
carried on, at his Store, No. 39, South Iront-llreek
Au<Zufl 7 CO'i.HW
PETER BORGER,
INFORMS his friends and the public in general
that he has removed from No. 119, corner of
Arch and Fourrh, to No. loj North Front, be
tween Arch and Race ftrects.
July 2'. iaw4w
Rcfi y Simfon,
—hav« ro* SALI—
C Hogflieads,
Excellent Coffee in < Tierces, and
C Barrels.,
A small parcel of nice'cocoa in bags
few puncheons Jamaica fpirlts, fourth proof
Superior Teneriffec wine, old an,! in Madeira pipes
An invoice of jewellery and hoflcry' t» be fold by
the package
A few hampers baft Engicfh cheeCs.
July 17 dtf.
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and oheaper than any other in
the City—
> OF Fa'RIOUS SIZES,
From Bby 6 to' 19 by 14,
By the tingle dpx or Quantity, may be had at the
S ore of the Subferibers, coiner ot Arch and Front
(lreet.
James C. tsf Samuel W. Fijher.
Philadelphia, June 9, 1797.
This Day is Publilhed,
BY MefT. Dobfor., Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the
other Sookreileri,
Price One Dollar and twenty-five etnts.
Elegant y printed on IVove paper, and Hot
prejfed,
By John Thomfffon,
A COMPARATIVE VI'EWOP
The Constitutions
Of the several States with each other, and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of each Conftltution, and
elafliiigtogether their most important provisions,
under the several heads of administration ; with
Notes and Observations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Carolina,
L L. D. and member of the Congrcfs of the
United States.
Dedicated to tha People of the United States.
N. B. A few Copies printed on an inferior pa
per, at j-4thsof a dollar.
Februaiyo mwf
MONDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 4, 1797.
. ImportedintliefhipMANCHESTEn,
Benjamin Shewell, Maftcr,
r,-y.-n lionr. taux, and ftif f.\ls tlie fuTvribcr,
No. rr Waltut.Stieet.
Bonrdeatix Brendv
Irish market.claret m cases Entitled to
Medoc wine, 111 do. Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do.
Thomas Murgatreyd.
WHO HAS F<5R SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter calks
Rota do. ' do.
Pimento in bags 1
4000 bushels Liverpool fait.
Akig. 24. > tut&3tf.
—> | ' '
A PERSON OF INGENUITY, lately arrived
from Europe, wishes to find here a-place in
the quality of a Dire&or of a Glass-house, Chryf
fal of all kinds, having particular means for the
tanftru&ion of the kilns', pots, &e. and
fikewife the articles used in the Glah houses of
England and France, having worked a long while
in m»ft cf them. Every will be made to
render tbs aiafiufa&cry deserving ©f public appro
bation—He, who wiilies to speak to him, wili find
hiqi at No. Front-ftieet.
AutJU'l 24.
Fjr sale or to be let on ground
rent,
A -valuable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the ticrth-eift corner of Wal
nut and Fifth lireets, fronting the State-
Hoiife lijuare This lot Ufifiy o+K feet front
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street j there arc at
present two small two story brick houses, and a
numUefr of small tenements thereon.
Also, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. situate on
Water-ftieet, between Mulberry and Saflafras
street., containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and aontir.uing that breadth eall
ward ninety-five feet, thfn widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. Thel'e houf«s
ave the convenience of a public alley adjoining
on the north fide, and are a very desirable situa
tion for a merchant, flour fa<slor,or others who
may have occasion for storage of goods. This
property will be fold on very reasonable terms
tor ca(h. For further information apply to the
printer. '
July -U. . • m&wtf
The SubJcriber has for Sale, ,
A large assortment of India Muslins,
coarse and fine
India Calicoes
Sooty Romalls
B'ue Cloths and Checks
Bandanna Handkerchiefs
Blue red and Oilli Handkerchiefs
An invoice of Irifli Linens and Sheetings, well
aflorted
A box of Diapers
Silk Umbrellas
Two boxes ef fine Spices, cotaining Nutmegs, 1
Mace and Cloves , I
Black Pepper of firft quality <
Eift India Ginger I
Java Sugar
A quantity of Madeira Wine
Ditto of Gin
Roll Btimftone
Mordecai Lewis.
AugyJl 11. jawlm
Cedar Shingles.
1 I *HF. fubferiber has a quantity of J feet Cedar
X Shingles of a superior quality, for sale at 13
dollar., pgr thousand.
William Hallow ell,
No. 193 North Third-Jlreet.
July 27. eolit
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given, .
THAT agreeably to an a& of Congrtfs the
United States of America, faffed at Phila
delphia, the 28th day yf Ivlay, 1796 ; laying du
ties on Car/iaje«, for the conveyance of persons,
which shall be kept by or for any peri'ou, for his
or her own use # or to let out to hire, or for the
conveyance of pafi'engers, the fevcrai duiies and
rates fallowirg, to wit :
For and upon every Coach, 15 dels., -
upon every Chariot, 12 dols.
upon every Post Chariot* la d©U.
upon e*ery Post Chaise, 12 dbU.
upon every with or without top,
9 dols.
upon every Coachee, 9 dols.
upon other Carriages, having pannel work
above, with blinds, glaffcs or curtains,
' 9 dols,
upon f«ur wheeled Carriage?, having fra
med polls and tops with \Teel fpriugs, 6
dols.
■pon four wheeled Carriages, with wood
eryriron fpringsor jacks, 3 dols.
upoft Curricles with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chaises with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols.
( u on other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carriages, with Heel or
iron springs, 3 dols.
and upon' all other tw® wheel carriages, 2 dols.
upon every four wheeled carriage, having
framed posts and tops, and resting up
on wooden spars, 2 dols.
The Colledot' of the Revenue for the firft Sur
vey of the DiiirixSt of Pennsylvania, will attend
daily, until the 3Cth day of September lor
the purpose of receiving the duties on Carriages, at
No, 117, in Race or Salfafras-ftreet, in the City of
Philadelphia; at the houfp of Daniel St. Clair,Efq.
in die County of Montgomery ; and at the house
of James Chapman, Esq. in the County of Bucks ; *
of which all pofclTed of such Carriages are f
desired to take notice. r
Notice is also given, '
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dif- c
tilled spirituous liquors, that SiCrnces will be grant- I
ed to them ; one licence for carrying on the bufi- '
ness of retailing of Wines, in a less quantity, or 0
in iefs quantities than thirty gkllonsr—and one li- 1
cerce for carrying on the bufincfs of -retailing Spi
rituous liquors in less quantities than jo gallons, at
the fame time and at the fame places, by the oific- f
crs legally authorised ta grant such licences. f
WILLIAM NICHOLS, a
Illfpcctor of the K cvenue of the firft fur» i
vey of the District of Pennsylvania.
Olfie; of 1 .Ipe&ion at ")
Philadelp! ia, 3d Avguft; c 797. $
Thomas Herman Leuffer,
North fifth ftrcorner of North a No. 34,
HAS FO'tf ''SALE, , '
EXCELLENIj red bounk_ui; Wine in cats (
boxes, fjx. yeafa old 1
White Graves Wine in cafics
Ticlclenburps
Ruflia Sa.il Cloths
Ravens Duck
Big; Linen
Heflianfy
Diaper and Table Clotk
Enipty bag*
Coremon German Cloth
4 n affortmetft of black coloured Ribbon*
F mq German Laces
About twelve tons Ruflia clean Hemp
Clover Seed
Italian Soap, :n small boxes, ( for family ttfe
Window Glafe lo.— ixvr
THIS DAY WAiS PUliLii Ei>, ,
And for frle by THOMJIS DOBSON, at OiC
Stone House, No* 41, fduth Second street*
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OV'jvNED.
Confining cfa variety of Miscellaneous Pieces for
the inftrudion and 33iufement of YOUNG PER.*
SON-''—Six Volumes! andfonit ly primcdand bottnd
up in two volumes, price Two Dollars.
The variety and excellence of these pieces are
iuch,that the book seeds only to be known to b©
nmverfally esteemed one of the most valuable pub
lications th t can be put into the hanc't of young
porfons.
" Delightful talk to reirthc Under thought,
To teach the young idea how t Ihoot,
To pour tVi« frclh inflruelion o'er the mind.
To breathe th' enlivening fpirit,and to fix
The generous purpose in the glowing breast."
I Thomson.
August H. rnwf^w
THIS D YIS PUBLISHED, "
By THOMAS DOBSON, at the Stone House,
No. 41, south Second street.
Letters and Conversations, y
Between several Young Ladies, on-improving and ia.
terefting fubjedls.
' Trasflated from the Dutch of Madame de Camion,
with alterations and improvements,
Printed %nJJi t paper, and neatly bound,
Price one dollar.
AM IDST thetide of modern Romances, painting
tales of extraordinary diftrefa, or of desperate or
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," an<f
which it would be for the honor of yoong ladies to
be ignorant of, this little book comes forward to so
licit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds of real life, the proper, beoauft
elegant and natural dignity and importance of the Female
eharaSer it exhibited in an interesting point of view,
and presents examples of real and attainable excel
lence.
The publisher was fomueh pleafedwith the pen*,
sal, that he was persuaded he (hould do a pleasing;
service to the eommunity by fending it ill'o circu
lation. August 14 —mw4W
To Majlers and Pilotl bringing up Vejftls
from Foreign Porti to this City.
YT7"Hereas sundry infringements hate lately bee®
VV made an the laws of thij {late for the pr*
venting peltilential or infedlinus diseases, either
from ignorance or inattention thereto, it is tlio't
expedient at this time to publilh the following e»»
tracts from the laws of aid April, 1794, 7th aod
Sth fedions.
HEALTH-OFFICE.
June 6th, 1794*
Extraft 0/ an aft for securing the city and port
of Philadelphia from the tntredußion of pejli.
lential and contagious diseases.
S«ct. 7. And be it further enabled, that every
mailer or captain of any Ihip or veffcl coming from
sea (vessels actually employed n the coasting trade
excepted) and bound to any port or place withia
the jurifdi&ion of Pennfylvania.lha'J cause bis (hip
or veffcl to be broHght to anchor,or otherwise (lay
eJ in the stream of the river Delaware, oppofit# to
the Health-Office on State-Mand aforefaid, and
there to remain until he lhall have duly Obtained a
certificate or bill of heat h from the Refideiit Phy
sician. Audit, previeufly to obtaining such certi
ficate or bill of health, any matter or captain lhall
fufter bis Ihip or veffcl to approach nearer than the
said Health-Office to the city of Philadelphia, or
shall land, cause orfuffer to be landed, or brought
on ihore, at any place or port within this Com
monwealth, or at any other port or place, with the
intent o( being conveyed into this Commonwealth,
any pcrfonor peifons, or any goods, wares or mer
chandize, or, if after receiving fueh bill of health
o. certificate, hr lhall negkd or rdufe to deliver
the tarn- to the Health-Qtficcr, luch matter or cap
tain lhall forfeit ana p:.y, for each andevery such
offence, the sum of five hundred dohass.
And the captain or matter of every Ihip or ves
sel lhall fend a fafe and commodious boat to bring
the phyficiar. on board, and Ibali in like manner
conn v him back to the Health-Office, after lie has
concluded his official elimination j And while he
is making such examination, or ill cafe any subse
quent examination by th.- Heal.h Officer or Con
futing Physician, agreeably to the directions of
thi ait, the mailer or captain Ihallexpole or caule
to be exposed to the search of the. Rcfulent Phyfi
cian,or of the Health Officfr and Consulting i'hyfi
cian (as the cafe may be) each arid every part oi he
Ihip or vessel, and Ihad prcfent to hi< view e
and every person cr perfors on board thereof, and
and lhall also true and fatisfaitory amwers malw
to all such questions as the Refulent Physician, 3tc,
at the time of examination lhail alk relative, to the
health of any poitor place fr*m wh eh he Ihip on
vessel failed, or has fines touched at—he number
of persons on board when the Ihip or vessel entered
ol\ her voyage—the number ol persons that hav»
Gnce been landed or taken on board, and when
and whererefpeitively—what persons on board
f they have bean during the voyage, or lhall, at
the time of examination, be infected with any pes
tilential or contagious dileafe—and what is the pre
sent state and condition of the persons on board
with refpeit to their health or diseases. And if
any matter or captain lhall refufe to expose a> afore->
aid, to the fearchof any of the officers aforefaid.
a if he lhall conceal any ftei person, vin any other mf.n
|cr deceive tlf proper officers aforefaid in bis anlivcrs,
ueh captain or matter, for every such offence, lhall
forfeit and pay the l'um of nvt hundred dol
lars.
Sect. 8. And if aay person or persons whatso
ever (the Resident Physician, &c. excepted) lhall
go on board any vessel, bAfare the matter thereof
has received a certificate of health in the manner
dire<fted, every person so offending, lhall pay the
um of ONB nUNDRED DOLLARS.
IT being absolutely necessary that the foregoing
fe&ions fliould be punSually complied with, th<#
fubferiber, 111. compliance'witli his duty, mutt ex
ad a rigorous observance of the lame, or else be
under tha necessity of putting the laws in force.
\V M. ALLEN, Health OffLer of tit
Port if Ji hihdeipbia.
Ju!y 14. «fjwr
\VOLUMX XII.■yuMim-i>i mil iti'iwiwuifrtiw '•
%i)t
PHILADELPHIA,
UQNE)AY EVF.tfIN 4-
riIED-—Qn Saturday last, in rhevjlft year of hlis
ftyc.Do&tr I-'ichui-as Wat. This gentleman, af
ter a lifc.of gt#at labor Snc! ufefulr.efs in, tT: : (lute
of Delaware, was invited to Philadelphia as treaf*
lifrer of the mint of the United States. Here his
♦alenimnd knowledge as a phyficlafi, prevented his
enjoying the retirement he had contemplated. He
loon became known, and exteufively employed in
!'is protfflifcn, mofe efpetiaily in oue brance of it,
in which he difcivered firi£ular judgment and deli
4ary qn nil occafio.is. Few men have lived, and
died with more frierids and fewer enemirs. His
hanfc in Wilmington fbr abov« twenty years was
the hospitable and friendly asylum of worth of e
"Vcrv kind. Ihe law of kindncf* \vns written, in
)i:s heart. It difcovired itXelf in evjry thing he did
tr> (aid. Of this ruling virtii'e of his Jife, the
dittrelied citizens of Philadelphia partook largely
}kh the tntuinh of The fev r which now
frevails in our tiry awakened liis humanity in jin
eminent degree, and to his recommendation, the
eitkens are indebted f<fr the appointment of five
rhyficians to search for. and fake-care of such of
tile poof as may be a(Te«9;ed by it. I.orig! long!
will his name be refpe&ed an«l belpved by all wh«
knew UMi, and none more than by the companion
•*nd friend of hi? youth, who new with a heart
"pprejTed with the deeped grief pays this tribute to
hi-.'^riiory.
at Bfiftol, Mr. T. Cantu, of this
city, merchant. "
FENNO,
A correspondent observes, that it is very'
Unbecoming in Mr. Deveze, a French sur
geon who was formerly employed as a phyfi
v cian in the hospital at Bulh-hill, to make
life of such an assuming authority in his let
ter tp Gov. Mifflin, published in the Auro
ra of thjw day, against all the measures
'that have been employed by our executive,
and by the inspeCtors of the health, in or
der to check the progress of the malignant
yellow fever. He may think as firmly as he
pleases that this dreadful disorder is not con
tagious nor imported ; but yet we have
learned men enough here whose opinions
ihould at leafl balance his own, in the mind
and judgment of our fellow-citizens. Mr.
DeVeze, who draws such an exaggerated
picture of those measures, does not fbrefee
how far the citizens will approve of them, ;
when they investigate why so few vittiras '
Were tkvoured by the malignant scourge,
Among those physicians who believe, that
the yellow fever is not a contagious malady, ,
there is not one but will be eandid enough
to acknowledge thit if it is an epidemic par
ticularly generated in this city and fuburba,
by the tffeCl W" any floating effluvias, no
'better preventative remains to our fellow
citizens who can afford it, than to keep off
for a short while, and to breathe the pure j
anti elaflic air of the country—Admitting
that the yellow fever ia not a contagious
disorder as the plague, the scurvy, the
small prtx, &c. it would be very difficult for
Mr. Deveze, and to any physician to prove
that it is not contagious in its last stage.
Chyr»)ifU know how dangerous it is to be
in contact with animal putrefa&ion to a
certain degree, and physicians cannot deny
that even before their deaths, the sick with
the yellow fever are in a state of putrefac
tion. As.Mr. Deveze is not of the college
of physicians, we thinltit very improper that
lie fliould assert that the meafu»es adopted
by the executive and by the iflfpeCtors of
the health have been the result of a decision
of 5 or 6 physicians.
Septtnfler 2.
ST ITE of PENNSYLVANIA.
An ACT to provide for alleviating the dif-
Jlreffes of the Citizens of Philadelphia, and
the Suburbs thereof, during the continuance
•fthe cxifling malignant, and contagious di
feafc.
Sec. I. BE it enaCted, by the Senate
and House of Representatives of the Com
monwealth of Pennsylvania in General As
sembly met, and it is hereby enaCted by the
authority of the fame, that a sum not ex
ceeding ten .thouland dollars, be appropria
ted for the accommodation, employment,
and reHef of any sick and indigent persons,
in the City'of Philadelphia and the suburbs
thereof, during the continuance of tbfe ex
isting malignant, and contagiousdifeafe; and
the sum so appropriated shall be paid by the
I'reafurer of the State, on a wnrrant or war
rants, to be drawn by the Governor in fa
vor of the commissioners to be appointed as
herein after mentioned, who shall account
therefor to the Legislature at their next
session.
Sec. II." And be it further enaCted
the authority aforefaid, That the Governor
ie empowered to appoint twelve commission
ers, three of whom shall be resident in the
Northern Liberties, three in the DistriCt
t>f Kouthwark, and fix in the city of Phila
delphia to carry into effeCt this law.
GEORGE LATIMER,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
ROBERT HARE,
Speaker of the Senate.
Approved, Augnft 29, *797-
Tnomas Mifflin, Governor of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
The Commissioners appointed by the
Governor, to carry into effeCt the law for
alleviating the diflrefs of the Citizens of Phi
ladelphia, and the suburbs thereof; inform
their fellow-citizens, that they have met and
attended to their appointment, and now in-'
\ite them to rjeommend in writing, figncd
by one or more reputable inhabitant, such
©f the indigent as may come to their know- j
ledge, who will be employed or assisted as
they may stand in need of, by applying to
the Commissioners at the State-House, from
3 to 5 o'clock, on the 4th inft. and every
other day, (at the fame houn>) while ne
c-effary.
' ROBERT WHARTON,
Chairman.
Sept. 2, 1797- ' .
P. S. The Printers in the city are re
quelled to publift th* above inlheir different
japere.
4'nrt'nir ttticlUgcnu by the jhjp Cumberland,
captain Scott, in 40 dilysfrom Hull.
PARIS, July 8.
Ihe rumours which have been so iriduf
trioufly circulated, relative to the refutnp
tion of hostilities in Italy, may be reduced
to this : in consequence of the prelimihary
articles of peace, the French army evacuated
leveral of the Italian lutes, which the Au'f
trians progressively entered. In several pla
ces, however, the inhabitants, enraged at
the visit of the latter, took up arms, and
ma'de several discharges of mufquetry to op
pose tfleie entrance. Their resistance did
not last long. Thus, in spite of the jobbers
and fabricators of news, the .war i& not yet
recommenced
Lyons has not been declared in a state of
siege, as has been reported, but the direc
tory has charged the commandant of that
city to take such measures as the circumstan
ces may require.
J ul T 9- 1
The day before vefterday, at half past fix
in the evening, a fire broke out in the church
of the Celeftins in this city ; it burned till
midnight, and entirely consumed the build
ing- This church had for some years been
converted into a large manufactory for the
calling of balls, and for the construCtion of
,gun earriages. The engines succeeded in
cutting off all communication with the neigh
bouring houses. The fire is supposed to
have been the effitft of party malice—the
work of the royalifb and anarchists. One
of tijc spectators was of a different opinion :
—" it is not owing," said he, " to the
imprudence of the workmen, as has been
supposed', Divine Providence has lighted up
this fire ; Heaven,wearied with our victories
and the calamities of the world, has destroy
ed, in our arsenals, those newinftruments of
carnage which we ftijl fabricate with one
hand, while we hold out the olive branch
witH the other." -
The according to the last let
ters from that place, it declared free and in
dependent.
Letters from Ulm, of the 20th ult. state
that the Auflrian troops are on the'point of
immediately forming three camps one of
them in the environs of that city, dnothtr
near Hailbron, in and a third in
Franconia, in Wurtzburg and Schweinfort;
that the number of prifoneri employed in
the works of the fortifications of the city
of Ulm, encreafe daily, and they amounted,
at the date of the letter, to 6eoo. Fresh
orders were every d3y received from Vienna
to hasten the works. If the cabinet of Vf
enna were in expectation of an immediate
rupture, it could not employ more energy
in its defence. And how does it happen
that the French government, with so much
reason to mistrust others, continues in the
mod perfect security ?
July 10.
Considerable alarm was excited cm the
exchange on the BtH instant, by the bank
ruptcy of t merchant named Follope, who
has failed for 11 millions of livres. Other
bankruptcies were expefted to follow.
The minister of marine and of colonies, to
the president of the executive directory.
Citizen president,
I hallen to inform you that a division of
the naval armament of Teulon, consisting
of 2 ships of 80 guns, four (hips of 74 guns,
and Teveral frigates, under the command of
rear admiral Brueyx, set fail on the 28th
ult. Every thing 011 the part of the officers
and crews promUL's that the expedition will
1 be fuccefsful.
I have also to inform you that an 80 gun
ship has been launched from the dock yard
of the port of Toulon.
Health and refpeft, Truguet.
We are ignorant what is the ebjeA of the
expedition. May it not furnifh new matter
r for triumph to our enemies, and for difgrate
to a minister who has never yet been able to
triumph over any thing but public opinion.
[L'Eclair.]
General Hedonrille will be followed to
St. Domingo by Watrin, general of brigade,
Klinger and Becker, adjutants general, and
D'Anzy, commander of battalion, whom
the directory places under hit command.
General Scherer, who had been nomina
ted to replace Willot, at Marseilles, will
resume his place of infpedtor general of ca
valry of the army of the Sambre and Meufe.
Letters from Vienna, of the 28th ultimo,
mention that several troops passed through
that city on their way to the army of the
Rhine. The emperor had written a. letter
with his own hand, to the council of war,
recommending to them to, take care that
their army received the necessary reinforce
ments, and whatever it is need
of in every poflible cafe.
/ VIENNA, June 22.
The infurredtion in Poland begins to
wear a somewhat serious afpedt. A very
extraordinary quantity of stores and ammu
nition of every kind continues to be sent to
the army of Italy. General Laudon's
corps has jufl left the Tyrol to penetrate
into Italy.
ALTON A, July 4.
A few days ago, very important dif
patche6 from the duke of Brunfwick, who
has the chief command of the troop* that
guard the line of demarcation, arrived at
Cruxhaven, and were immediately forward
ed to England. They arc said to relate to
the plan of the French and Dutch, to at
tack the electorate of Hanover. Among
the troops under the duke's command great
movements take place, and some corps have
aCtually advanced nearer the Dutch fron
tiers. On the ptfter hand, the French con
centrate a powerful force on the Lower
Rhine, and are ready to aCt on the fidl no
tice. 1
HAGUE, June 27.
" Mod of the Batavian troops destined
for the Batavian expedition, have now
reached the Reider and Texel, where, to
[ morrow naornmg, a beginning will be kukJ«
» I
to embark thera on board the transports
which are ready for sea, Gen.
has not yet returned from Zwoll, whither
he is gone to enquire into the circumstances
which have iuduced the troops quartered is
that town, .to oppose their intended em
barkation ; two companies of the troops at
Delft have likewise refufed to go on board
the transports.
" The provincial administration of Hol
land has publithed a reply to the letter of
the convention, wherein the province of
Holland was threatened with military exe
cution, in cafe the arrears of contribution
were not immediately discharged by that
province."
LONDON, July 10.
Paris journals of the 4th and sth inft.
are somewhat interesting. Tranquility at
present prevails in the French capital. The
two councils are chiefly occupied with the
priests, the houses belonging to their ci
devant livings, the national estates, public
worflitp, and the emigrants.—But though
Paris be tranquil, some of the southern de
partments it seems are a prey to disorders
of the most dreadful kind.
Saturday- morning, Mr. Brooks, the
messenger, arrived with dispatches from
lord Malmefbury at Lisle. His lordship
was received in that city with the'moft flat
tering marks of approbation.
One of the Paris* journals, speaking of
thai-negotiation, fays, " The British cabi
net has had the courage to fend back lord
Maljnefbury to treat, with the republic—
Lord Malmefbury has had the courage to
accept this mission—and the directory, es
teemed, refjirfted, and feared throughout
Europe, has had the courage, owing to
its love of peace, net, to treat with the con
tempt it merits, this want of refpeft on
the part of an enemy who sues for peace,
who is in want of it, bijt d? man da it
with insolence.'" ' ;
July 11.'
Saturday, captain Paget, of the navy,
arrived at the admiralty office with dif\
patches from the earl of 3t. Vincent, con
taining an account of several captures made
by the English. The officer also brought
advice, that the Raven brig, commanded
by fapt. James, had taken a Spanish gal
; leon worth 300,000).
I.aft week immense quantities of stores
were shipped for the Cape of Good Hope.
A fliip of 800 tons was freighted with coals
and flour : the prime cost of the coals here
wa6 10001. and the- expense of carrying
them to the Cape will be 6rool. more. The
reason of/ending flour is, that though there
is plenty of wheat, thtre are not mills e
nough in the country to grind it for the
increased eftablilhment of the military and
others.
A petition has been presented to the Ba
tavian convention, by>a number of perfont
concerned in the trade and maritime affairs
of that republic, requesting that, in the
approaching negotiations, England may be
made to indemnify the Batavian citizens
for the loss tiey sustained by the detentfcjrf
of the Dutch fhip6, and other aft 3 oY hos
tility, which amounts to above 120 millions
of florins.
Meeting! of the merchants have been
held in the confulados of the different ports
of Spain, where propositions were made on
the part of the administrators, that the
merchants, in consequence of the stagnated
state of commerce, which rend-red their
capitals in a manner useless, should fubferibe
to a large loan to the king, and should take
for security and payment, licences for {hip
ping goods to America, whenever commerce
agaifi opened. The merchants of Cadiz
fubferibed very largely; but in other ports
very little money was obtained.
A private letter received yesterday by the
Hamburgh mails, contains, the following
particulars refpe&ing the situation of the
Marquis la Fayette at Olmutz, and is ex
trafted from an official report of tha go
vernor of that fortrefs :—"■ La Fayette and
his family ground floor of the
house which looks into the fields, and where
j they occupy different apartments.
| Every one of their servants has a room to
I himfelf. Their apartments, raised above
the fortifications, enjoy the purest air, and
have large windows 13 feet high. They
j are fitted up according to the choice of
! their occupiers, and furnifhed in the most
I decent manner. La Fayette and his family
\ get what breakfaft they choose ; five diflies
and a dessert at dinner; two dishes at sup
per ; Hungarian wine, &c. All the clothes
j and linen the Marquis demands, he is fur
nifhed with, without the least objeftion.
The apartments, are cleaned and aired with
the utmost care. . They are attended by
their own servants, enjoy a good state of
| health, receive all the books they desire,
and are allowed to correspond with their,
friends and relations."
i A letter from Lisbon of the 15th ult.
announces the fafe arrival of the prince of
Waldeck, commander in chief of the Por
tuguese army. In consequence of this ar
rival, general Stuart is coming home.
July 13.
By a letter from the Hague, we learn,
that General Hoche, Commander in Chief
of the army of the Sambre and the Meufe,
has been there, and after having held seve
ral conferences with tha Members of the
| Batavian Government, and the CommandeT
' in Chief of the intended expedition, left
! that city, either on his return to the ar
' my, or as some suppose, on his way to
Paris. ,
Ths preparations for that expedition are
continued with the utmost, aftivity and vi
gour. The committee of marine direfts the
naval armament, whiclv consists of 17 fail
of the line, najnely, 4 of 74 guns, 6 of 68,
3 of 60, and 4 of 54, besides several frigates
and brigs. The thips are to be viftuallyd
for 4 months. The committee of Union,
fuperintenda the embarkation of the land
troops, composed of 20 battalions of Bata
vian Infantry ; and the committee for fo
reign affairs con the esecMtioi) ef the
expedition, which is said to* be combined
with.another, to be executed by a French
flotilla; fitted, out at Dunkirk, to render
the former more fuccefsful.
General Daendels commands the land
tttiops, and Admiral Winter the fleet.—
Thiy ir. intimate friends, and have both
served in the French army.
We are informed by a letter from Copen
hagen.of the ift inft. that on- the 30th ult.
three Ruffian {hips of the line, two frigates
anft one brig, commanded by rear admiral
Materoos, arrived there from England, on
their passage home,
We are glad to observe that the) bill in
troduced into ParliamentonTuufday by lord
Grenville, for enabling his Majesty to con
vene Parliament at a notice of 14 jnftead of
40 days, is likely to meet the general sense
of the country. The regulation pan be at
tended with little or no inconvenience, as it
can rarely happen that a -member of Parlia
ment /hall not be informed of the circum
stance of the meeting at even the most distant
parts of the country within the limited time,
so as to be able to give his attendance on
the firft day of the frffion ; the advantages
resulting from the bill are obviojis, especially
in critical times like the present, where th&
collcftive wisdom of Parliament may from a
change of circumstances become highly ne
ceffaiy to be taken in the discussion of the
general (late of public affairs. The bill does
not, in other refpefts, appear to us to be a
ny indication of the opinion of his Majesty's
ministers on the probable success "oc failure
of the present negociation. It is aft of wife
regulation, and as such we have no doubt it
will pass ananimoufly in both houses of Par
liament.
As a pr»ofof the diminution in the gene
ral sale of Newfpaptrs since the last impolitic
tax laid on them, we have to observe in one
iriftance.that the nuthber of newspapers sent
through the General Post Office on Mon
day the 3d inft. was 24,700, and on Mon
day last, only 16,800 —a falling off of near
ly one third.
■ *=7
From the North Carolina "Journal.
HEYDAY ! Mr. Printer, bad times are
come - bout—bad to us poor voters, that we
mud not eat roast lamb and-chicken
pies—That a man has not a right to do as 1
he please. Fy ! upon it, Mr. Printer, this j
will never do.—A'nt we in a land of liber
ty ? A'nt we a free people ? What did we
take Cornwallis's army for—or obtain, our
independence-—but that we fhonld have bar
becue t, with plenty of grog, -without momy
and without price, whenever Mr- R. and Mr.
S. should offer for members of the assem
bly ? And I would be glad to know, Mr.
Printer, what ether good our assemblymen
do us ?—A'nt they vs el) able to afford it ?
D'Vn't they vote their own, nay, and give
ihemfelvts 255. a day, betides their travell
ing expences ? Ought we not .therefore to
have a share ? It is true, our ftieriff, on o
pening the poll, reads a terrible oath, he
fays they must take before they are admit
ted to their feats, about giving away any
gifts gratuity or reward, either direftly or
indireftly—but that is their own look out
and no concern of follow the good
old apjftle's advice—'.' eating [and drink
ing] whatever is set fefore us, asking no
question for conscience fak<°."—Yes !. Mr.
R. and Mr. S. are clever generous fellows,
and I will vote for them all my life, Jf I
can get barbecues, and have plenty of grog,
mithout money and -without price—that's the
fun of it, Mr. Printer—for who could ask
it on easier terms than for a filly vote, which
we must give to somebody, and it is little
matter- to us to whom.—But I fear bad
times are now coming on—bad, indeed, for
they would with to prevent our candidates
from (hewing, their generosity—mixing with
the eommon people, levelling all distinCtions,
and exercising ihc true inequality of the
rights of map—Curse on their arifto'crati
cal sentiments I fay.—For my part, howev
er, I am determined, let them fay What they
will, to vote for Mr. R. as long as he offers,
and gives roast pig and brandy without mo
ney and -without price. %
fpF Thus is obfervablc the decline of virtue
and independence in our country, from whence the
mfftl dreadful consequences must ensue. In ruai;y
counties we find men, without character and with
out parts, insidious in their attempt", giving bar
becues and a little krmviflt cheer, thereby deluding
the ignorant, and cajoling them oat of the licit pri
viledge of freemen. Hence we too often f-e the
fame mean spirit of cleil lonecring prevailing ii the
Legiflattlre, wheteby he digrity and honor of the
state in too frequently prostituted to the grea'efl i'y
rophants and time servers and pe>fons <'eft!r.>t • »f
talents, virtue, or refpe&ability, elected to the
higheft office*.—Not ijiary years; aft it may be re
membered that the legifUture was ecmpofciof ma
ny men of the sirs- talents an-i information, and
possessed of true republican virtues—but now, a
las! »f eleilioneering K-s become so
base in its nrme, that ihofe are general
ly excluded, either for the want of knavery or a
.degenerate mind. What may we not expeit from
a situation like this—where sycophancy is too
mAnly the ladder of promotion ?—How often do
■Vfn fee men felling their libert) of for the
lowest o£ all prices, a drink.of
the patriarch of old, who fold his nirtkright far a
mefsof porridge, may ye not Biped soon to Iwcowc
bondmen and servants to fools and knaves—worse
matters than even Pharoah ?—0 tempore ! 0 civet /
0 mores ! '
DEDHAM, (Majf.yAuguft 29.
Italy, formerly the mistress of the then
civilized world, hjs been uTstun and com
pletely reduced to fubjeftion, since June
1796. The efforts of her own inhabitants
for her defence have been »!moft nothing.
It was Austria, that fought against the in
vaders, and delayed the con que ft for a few
months. In a military view, the eyent
crowns the French with glory, and fills the
world with admiration.
But ftich ao event deserves more thought
and enquiry, than the firft wonder of the
news will suggest.
How happens it, that Italy, which falls
now like a child without resistance, once
was a giast ?, It is because antiently the
Roman discipline gave them the strength
of giants, andtheir enthusiasm fprtad among
the sat»w«\the dread of them as devils. It
is bceatlfc Rciue divided Ly- 1.0 these
whom flic afterwards afiailed by her arms,
and by joining one state igamtf another, or
letting up party against party, within the
fame state, (he made her enemieg in effe£t
conquer themselves - and at length under
the name of allies, she brought them all un.
der her own yoke.
Much national inflruftion results from
these events.'
Italy has negle&ed military discipline for
Tome 1 ages. Germany, it is has
at lead three soldiers to her one.
This kind of has been augment
ed by another. The faee of the map of Ita
ly is all befpattereii and blurred with the
names of petty principalities and Republics.
The number of the people in Italy is not
probably less than it was, when Rome trod
upon the neck of all nations. Her divisions
have made her weak. Had her force been
concentered into one state anddire&edbyone
authority, no invader could have conquered
her.
. Let Americans notice the precious value '
•to a state of the following things :—ift.
Some military knowledge and discipline.
2d. Union among themselves under one
head for at kaft every national objed.
3d. That of old as well as of late, the
way to conquer a. people and benumb their
courage and patriotism, wasto fowdivifioqi.
4th. It may be proper to notice, though
it is rather foreign to the design of these
observations, that the name of Republic ha*
not saved Genoa or Venice, thatSi neutrali
ty, which we know fear and weakness gua
ranteed, has not preserved the former from
exa&ions—nor the latter from revolution
pillage and subjugation.
And laftty, that the only fafety for ra
tions lies, not in turning quakers, and pro
claiming peace with all, nor in the fjdi'e pre
tensions of love and friendfliip na
tions, but in having at all times an adequate
force, and in shewing the spirit, that in the
last extremity would use it.
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, September 2.
Some intelligence has finally been receiv
ed from Capt. • Raymond of the schooner *
Nymph, of this port, who failed from Lan
cevau five months ago. She was taken by
the Spanish privateer schooner Joseph, Cap
tain Francis Sanchez, of two 18 poundei r ,
and carried into a bye port on the island ot
; Cuba, Navieta, where her crew turned trai
! tors for a small bribe from the captain of th?
privateer, and swore the veflel was from
New-Providence. Cipt. R. however writes,
that though the veflel had been robbed great
ly, he had by letter represented the circuin
liance to government at the Havanna, and
hoped to get the veflel clear, as he was now
treated with polite attentian and had an in.
terprete/. ' v
A (hip from Philadelphia, bound to Bour
deaux, last evening came within the narrows,
having been chafed and brought to by a
French privateer. We are informed that a
(hot from the privateer took off a breast and
an arm of a French lady'on board the ship.
A surgeon was this morning sent for to dress
the wounds of the unfortunate fufferer.
BOSTON, August 30.
TRIBUTE OF RESPECT.
At a meeting of the American Academy
of Arts and Sciences, Aug. 23d, 1797-1-
Tbe senior counsellor presiding :
Voted, That a committee be appointed
to present an address to the PRESIDENT
of the United States in the name of the Aca»
demy.
Voted,- That the Hon. Judge Lowall,
the Rev. Dr. Thatcher, and Dr. John War
ren, be a committee.for the above mentioned
purpose. 1 - -
In pursuance of the foregoing vptes, the
following address was presented.
Ta John Adams, L L. D. President „/ the
United States of America.
sir, *
THE American Academy of Arts and
Sciences, founded when their country was
struggling for Freedom and Independence,
which your exertions have so greatly tended
to e(labli(h, ask leave to offer you their con
gratulations on your election to the office of
firft magistrate, in a nation where the rights
of men are refpefted and truly supported.
They are led_to pay this tribute to your
virtue and merit, because you have for several
years presided over their institution witk
honor and advantage to thenv
Their pursuits are litdrary. They wifli
to add to the knowledge whic.h their coun
try already poffefles, and to use their cor
respondence with foreigners, engaged in the
fame pursuits, so as this valuable
purpose.
They cannot, however, be indifferent to
the peace and happiness of the land in which
they live, nor to the preservation of those
invaluable conftitutionsof government, which
distinguish it from all other nations. They
kpow that these coiiftitutions will not arifWer
the important purposes f<sr which they were
formed, unless they are well
With pleasure they find their Prelidtut,
whom they have so long known, and so high
ly efteersed, called by the free fu.frages of
his to she arduous tafli ef
guiding the counsels, preserving the honor,
and supporting the prosperity of the United
States, in fucceffiort to the man whose dis
tinguished integrity, anr' disinterested patri
otism, his fellow-citizens have so universally
attested. Their aid in accomplifhlng (hefc
defifable purposes, cannot be greatly effective"
—but you may be aflurfcd that influ
ence v/ill always be exerted to promote the
measures of a government founded on tht
basis of true liberty, and a/fminifttred with
wisdom and firmnefs, They feel high fa
tisfaftion when they find these virtues "mark,
ed on the measures which you have hitherto
adopted ; and they ardently pray that the
infinite source of light, and of power, may
always'direct you, and siowr with fucctf#, yolir"biTprtS to promote the welfais of your
countiy, and the lnppinePs of mankind.
A'true extraft.from the records—
A'tvft,
BENJAMIN DEARBORN,
Rec. Secretary.
THE ANSWER.
To the American Academy of Arts & Sciences.
GEJqLEMEN,
MEETING with yon at a regular period
established by law, lexpc&ed nothing mo're
tlian those habitual expressions of yourfriend
fhip, which I have constantly received, as
One of your iffociates, upon all such occa
fiobi. This elegant address, therefore, as
it was lyit fovefeen, is the more acceptable.
Coming from gentlemen whose fame for
science and literature, as well as for every
civil and political virtue, is not qonfined to
n lingle state nor to oije quarter of the world,
it does'me great honor. Your congratula
tion on my eleftion to the office of firft
Magistrate, in a nation where the rights of
men are refpe&ed and truly supported, de
serve my best thanks.
The commands of the public,, have obli
ged me to relide in foreign countries and
diflant states, for afmoft whole period
of the exiftince ,of our Academy ; but no
part of my time has ever been fpept with
more real fatisfa&ion to myfelf, than the few
hours, which the course of events has per
mitted me to pass in your society.
Your exertions at home, and extensive
correfpondencids abroad, are, every day, ad
ding to tha knowledge of our country, and
its impHßvement in ufeful arts—and,! have
only to regret that indifpe.i fable avocations
have prevented me from assisting in vour la
bors and endeavoring to (hare in the glory of
your' success.
The unanimity with which the members
of this academy, as well as of the university*
at CamVndge, and the whole body of the
clergy of this common wealth, (all so hap
pily connected together) are attached to
the union ftf our American dates, their con
ftitutioins of government and the federal ad
ministration, is thehappieft ome-n of Uie fu
ture peace, liberty, fafety and profpertty of
our country. The rifing 1 generation of A
mericans, the mod, prom'ling and perhaps
ihe moil important youth, which the human
species can boast, educated in such princi
ples and under such examples, cannot fail to
answer the high expectations which the
world has formed of their future wisdom,
virtues and energies.
To succeed, in the admin iflration of the
government of the United States, after a
citizen, whose great talents, indefatigable
exertions, and diCnterefted patriotism, had
tarried the gratitude of his country and the
applause of the world to the highest pitch,
was indeed an arduous enterprize. It was
not without much diffidence, and many anx
ious appreh#rifions that I engaged in the
service. But it has been with inexpressible
gratitude and pleasure, that I have every
found, in my fellow-citizens, an al
most universal disposition to alleviate the
burthen as much as pofiib'le, by the cheerful
and generous support of their affeflionate
countenance and cordial approbation. No
thing of the kind has more tenderly touched
me, than the explicit fanftion you have been
pleased to express of the measures I have
hitherto adopted.
Permit me, gentlemen, to join in your
fervent prayers, that the incomprehensible
fource'of light and of power, may direst
us all, and crown with success, all our ef
forts to promote the welfare of our 'coun-
I try and the happiness of mankind.
JOHN ADAMS.
Judge Lowell, Dr. Thatcher,
and Dr. Warren, a committee
of the American Academy of
Arts and Sciences.
Extract of a letterfrom London, June 5.
" Th< Adminiftrition here has received a
letter written by Mr. Morris, who fays he
•was at St. Domingo, and in the confidence
of Santhonax. That Santhor.ax hired a
number of persons to go into the United
States, and set fire to the populous towns.
That some had returned, received their re
ward, and had gone thence again. The
writer mentions their names. One of the
Ministry has furnifhed Mr. King a copy of
the letter."
If the circumstance of the acceflion of
Paul I. of Rufiia, to the confederacy against
France, and the infoiVnation of the account
thereof being received fourteen hours Sfter
the signing of the cefiation at Leoben; are
accurate, they afford one of the mod extraor
dinary occurrences evt/r recorded in history.
—Extraordinary as it appears, we thing it
fadl:—for independent of the account of it,
ijferted this day, we have seen a Paris pa
per of a late date, in which it is pleasantly
said, " succours, offered by the Emperor of
Ruflia, to his brother of Germany, coming
as |hey did, after the treaty was signed, is
likp mustard after dinner."
Capt. Daniel Tilton, of Exeter New-
Hampshire, is appointed Senior Officer of
Marines for the frigate Constitution, where
of Samuel Nicholfon, Efq; is Captain and
Commander.
We learn that a supply of cloathing for
the Marines will be sent on, as early as pos
sible. It is said to be preparing. Re
cruiting inftru&ions, and money will be found
as soon as it is ascertained whether Capt.
Tilton accepts.
OF PEACE—rrs PROSPECTS.
-PARIS, July 8 to 12.
Negotisttions with the emperor continue.
The new preliminaries have been signed at
Bade between the republic and emperor.
Lord Malmefbury certainly arrived at
Lisle, the 6th infl. at 6 o'clock, P. M.
He has visited the French legation.
In the appointment of* our negotiators,
Barthelemy has not had all the influence
■which was expe&ed : it has not been his
fault, for it appears certain, that he has
displayed a firmnefs and franknefs which
juftify the hopes that have beep conceived
of him. He voted neither for' Letourneur
nor Pleville.' He proprtfed thr.ee men who
'would have been generally approved by
public—Bourgoing, formerly ambafla
dor of France, at Madrid, the author of
an etfcell nt tour of that country, and who
been employed 3o yenrs in diplomacy :
: Maret, who has been adopted ; and Col
chen, for whom he could; obtain no other
appointment than that of secretary general.
We are aiTured that Barthelemy declared
he could not vote for Letourneur, vrhom
he did not know, and place him at the head
of an employment which was altogether
new to him. He was strongly supported
by Barras, who <4fo urged the inconveni
ence of a choice. The partiality,
however, of -the other three members for
old colleague, got the better of the
powerful reasons of Barthelemy and Barras,
who were in favour of diplomatic men of
known merit.
! July 6.
One journal Only announced yeftarday
that hostilities were re-commenced ; many
journals repeat it to day. It is difficult to
believe this news, and the least reflection is
fufficient to rejedt it entirely. How can
we think the emperor has begun to fight
again, after having aided in despoiling the
Venetians, Hiid after having himfelf appriz
ed the powers around him, that nothing is
more lawful 1 than to pofTefs orte's felf of the
eftatcs of the unfortunate i If the emperor
(hould be beaten, would not the Grand
Turk, the king of Prussia, and the empe
ror of Russia, in their turn, have a right
to aid the French republic in partitioning
his eflates ?
July 7.
The news of the renewal of hoflilities
with the emperor is noj confirmed ; and yet s
for some days, public paper has been very
low ; yesterday it had, no fixed value ; it
was offered at all prices, without finding any
piH-chafers. Some fufprft the directory
have made additions to its firft propositions ;
others think the emperar is frightened at
the revolutionary principles \*hich agitate
Italy ; but those piinciples are not to be
reprefTed by force of arms, but by a fccu
rity of the smaller powers againfl his arilbi
tion, and that the emperor is no longer
there.—Europe this day pays for its cow
ardice in fuffering the partition of Poland ;
in- that .partition was written the downfall
of the coalition.
July 9.
The following is the amount of all the
reports refpefting the re-commencement of
hostilities in Italy :
In confetjuence of the preliminaries of
peace, the French army had evacuated-fe
veral parts of Italy, to which the Auftrians
returned : but the inhabitants of several
places doubtless but little flattered by the
visit of the took arms and fired upon
the soldiers to prevent their entry. Their
refiftanee however did not continue long.
Thus in spite of all newsmongers and flock
jobbers, war will not break out again.
Bourdeaux. We have reports of admiral
Jervis's bombarding Cadiz. '
OF GENOA
June 26.—Letters from Genoa afTure us,
thata.great part of the inhabitants of that
republic have it in contemplation to ask for
the reunion of their country with France.-
If this could be effe&ed, the states ot Ge
noa would form one of the finetl departments
of France.
July 4.—While the government journal
would persuade us, that Gen. Buonaparte
and the French republic have not operated
the revolutionary movements of Genoa, the
provifipnal government of that provisional
democracy thank Gen. B. and the French
Republic for having officially co-operated
in the regeneration of the country.
OF MALTA.
If we may credit letters from Malta, pub
lished in the Frankfort journal, a very exten
sive conspiracy has just been discovered, in
which a great number of persons of all con
ditions are implicated. The plan of the
conspirators was, it is said, to assassinate the
Grand Master and the Commanders, and to
substitute a democracy instead of the prcfeftt
government. This conspiracy was to have
broke out the fame day with that of Genoa.
Happily it was discovered in time, and seri
ous measures havs been taken to ftifle it en
tirely. A great number of individuals have
been arrested, and a tribunal has been estab
lished, composed of (four bailiffs to judge
tljem. " This revolutionary spirit" adds
the Journalist on this fubjeft, " which has
already delivered up a great part of Italy to
innovations, ieems ready to propagate itflf
through every part of that fine country, and
to cause a general flame. Letters from Na
ples fay that a fermentation reigns there,the
consequences of which are dreaded. -It is
the fame in the states which the
war has spared : and it is feared that a va
cancy in the holy fee, if it is unhappily tak
en place, will give rife to ferieus troubles.
Even Switzerland appears not to be entire
ly Jheltered from the contagion ; we have
already heard of troubles in that part of the
republic nearest to Italy, as well as in the
canton of fit. Gall. On the other hand,
the harmony, which has reigned between
France and the Helvetic League has been
disturbed by some incidents, and among o
thers, by the d'fpute which has taken place
on the fubje£t of the navigation of the Lake
of Lugano, and this affair is far from being
entirely fettleil."
OF VENICE.
Terms of peace allolued by Gen. Buonaparte to
the Venetian Republic.
A million and a half of ducats (3 millon'
of dollars) in ready money.' 2d. Support
ing the French army until he pleads to with
draw them. 3d. Three million of ducats
(or 6 million of dollars) in marine obj£&s,
such as wood, cordage, cannon, See. jth.
Six fhip3 of the line well equifit. sth. For
ty pictures to J)e felefted by French Com
roiitsries. 6ib. A number of the best ma- '
nnfcrlpts from the library of St. Marks. 7. '
The two lions in Bronze, at the entrance of
the arfensl, as well as the four beautiful hors
es of the fame metal which ai'e upon one of
the public places of the city of Venice
General Buonapartedeclares that when these
preliminaries are complied with, he will thea
treat upon other points and determine the
new frontiers of the Republic.
VENICE, June 24.
We learn with aflo>iifhment, that besides
the heavy contributions which we are forc
ed to pay the French, they have yet added
claims upon the produftion of the arts.
in Bronze at the arfensl, thehorf
es of the fame metal, which we took in 1 }oo
frotai Constantinople, forty paintingsat thiir 1
own diferetion, besides raamifcripts and o- j
ther antiquities, must be ready at the short
est notice for the fleet going to Toulon, a
fleet which, we once called our own. The
Duke of Modena seems very tranquil, tho'
he has been taken by his former vassals, for
debt. The duke of Parma is the only on« ;
whoefcapes fortheprefent,in consequence of
the alliance between Spain and the French ;
republic.
VIENNA, July 1.
The bank of Venice, which was once
judged the fafeft in Europe, has failed. So
that many houses as well as private persons
must fuffer, and some persons will doubtless
beabfolutely ruined.'
The property of the King of .Great-Bri
tain, in the bank of Venice, to a large a
mount, has been confiscated by gen. Buon
aparte.
FRENCH a FT/iIRS. *'
July 8.
The Diredlirj resolves, that the funct
ions of citizens Hughes, Ltbas aud Jeanet,
appointed by the directory for the Wind
ytMid lilards and Cayenne, in execution of
the law of the sth Pluviofe, 4th rear, (haj
cease on the 4th Thermidor, ;th year, when
they shall proceed to the Directory to ren
der an account of their mission. AllnecefTa
ry meafurcs for this objeft shall be taken by
the Minister of Marine, who is charged with
the executions of this decree.
Signed, Carnot, President,-
La Garde, Sec'ry.
Mr. Adet, our Ambassador at Philadel
phia, appears not to have brought with bin*
the friendfhip of our fillers the Republics
of the United States j but, in revenge, he
is arrived at Paris accompanied with differ
ent rare animals, such a» a , a black
snake, and three rattle-snake«. Thus, if
if he hat not the consolation to enrich our
diplomatic cabinet with a treaty of friend
(hip between tisand the Americans, he bas
at least that of peopling our menagerie with
some mlfchievotu reptiles There is nothing
like a republic ; itkuows how to make the
most of eyery thing.
Mr. John Adams, President of the li
nked States, delivered to Cpngrefs the 16th
of May, a speech, from which we shall cito*
that part which dire&ly rejjarda France.—
This speech, which bearsthe marksjnf great- '
ness and of moderation, 6f courage and of
prudence, ought to be fixed up in the hall
of the two Councils of the Legislative Body
in order that every Deputy may be able to
compare it with the message by which the
Directory shall answer the motion of order
of Paftoret. It will console those men who
despise all the governments of Europe, whe
ther monarchial or republican, by (hewing
them that there is a corner of the earth whei'e
principles, governors, the laws, and the
governed, are in accord. Happy people 1
never leave the choice of thy chief* to chapce
or to the cannon ; for then thou wilt soon
be gloricrus in the bosom of the most fright
ful misery, and debased in the midst of glory.
Council of the /Indents—} O frfeilidpr.
Troochet, the defender of Louis XVI.
is this day the organ of national jufticc to
wards two mejnbcrs of the family of the
Bourbons, who remained in France, and
have survived the revolutionary storm. He
proposed, in the Council of the Ancients,
to approve, and the Council did unanimous
ly approve tne following refutation, takyji
the~6th, 'in-the Council of Five Hundred :
" Thar the sequestered property inlwhich
there is no derogation by the 2d araclc of
the decree of the National Convention of
the 24th prairial, 3d year, shall .be restored,
as far as belongs to
Bburbon-Conti, and Louift-Marie-Pen
thievre, widow of Orleans ; that in confe
qiience they (hall have the free difpoGtio'n
of their estates, aad enjoy all the'ir political
and civil tights."
PORTLAND, August 26.
By the Skipper of a Fisherman, belong
ing to Falmouth, Ebenezer Johnson, we
are told, in the evening of tha 12th inft.
being about 3 leagues S. of Seguin, he dis
covered a schooner of about 120 tons, ap
pearing to have an uncommonly large light
on board. Finding the light to increase,
the Fisherman drew nearer, in order if ppffi- '
ble to afford afTiftance. As he approached
the main mast of the schooner fell. There
being no\body on fifherman saved
■from the wreck the main top-fail and some
of the riging.—She appeared to have been
laden with lumber, andfuppofed to be out
ward bound.,
FURTHER PARTICtjt ARS.
We learn that the above schooner belong
ed to Boston, to which place she was bound;
having been loaded with boards at Pittftfin,
on the Kennebeck. In the evening of the
14th inft. the wind blowing frefh, all hands
were called upon to afliftreefingthe fails, &c.
The cook on returning to the caboose, found
that the fire had communicated itfelf to the
adjacent parts. The bucket for dipping
water was instantly feifced, but in the hurry
and fright, it accidently fell overboard.
Having nothing with which water could be
handed, and the flames fanned by the wind
furiouflfraging, the people '«nd passengers,
to the number of ten or a dozen, some of
whom were women, ha*l 110 other alterna
tive for their lives but to put the boat, to
which they immediately betook themselves,
not having time to put on their cloaths.
Finding that the boat began to fill with wa
ter, they recollefted that, in their, halle,
they had forgottento put in the'plug. 1 Cor
-1 resting this omiflion, with great diffictllty
1 and hazard of their lives, they happily reach
ed the (here. The schooner was eonfumed;
and we War that considerable property was
on board, all of which was loft.
JAMAIC July 15.
Quito, 6th February, 1797.
S»nie account" of the dreadful effe&s of the Earth
quake at Qaito and its neighborhood, on the 4th
| inllant. 1
The dreadfu\ calamity began at Quito, at half
pad 7, a. m. and laded, from the bell calculation
upwards of three minutes. The elegant college
of St. Fernando is in ruins The large edifice of
Santa Domingo is confidarably damaged; the grand
tower was broke into many pieces, and a number
of the cells entirely dedroyed ; the fludent's school
is in ruins. The ' igh church of Del Carmen, one
of the most elegant frbrics in this place, is t&tajly
demoli■! ed. The tower of La Merced is nearly
in the fame date ; it has been ordered to be pulled
down. The church de la conception has fufßred
considerable damage ; indeed all the bed 1 uilding*
of the place are dedroyed. None of the low
6uildingshave received any damage.
At Facunga the b-gan fom- time pad
7 o'clock, a m. and the agitation of the earth con
tinued until ao'cleek, p m leaving the village en
tirely in ruiiW, not a building being lift danding,
except an arch in the great square, and a part of a
neighboring house.
The people who hive perilled.are innumerable j
the churches of St. Santo Domineo, and
La Maerced, were crowded with people hearing
mals, not one «f whom were saved. The whole
place opened inte sullies, out of which l»ige quan
tities of water issued. Don Francifeo ( amacho
was swallowed up, and no account hasbeen re
ceived of Don Antonio Texado, who was with
him v
The village of St. Philip, which is near to Fa
cunga, is swallowed up : in this place ihere was a
fcl'ool with upwards of forty children who have
iuff -recl the some f it*. —■ t -
There are diflitrmt report® refpe&ing the village
of Anbato ; it isfaid to be iTkewife in ruins.
The famous edate of Marquis de Mirafl: res, on
which wasaclbth manufafloiy, all his horses and
a* elegant church, are entirely destroyed, and ma
ny lives loft. . \
Calera, an eflate adjoining the Marquis's is
swallowed up, and scarce the vestige of a house to
be seen.
Alaques, Saguiati Pugili, Fachuchi, and other
conQderr' le villages and wd&tes are entirely ruined.
Machache, Aloacj, Amaguana, Aivay, and oth
er villages in the neighborhood of Facunga, have
(ufTered great damage —Not a cjiurcl; is left dand.
ing in either of these places.
The mountains of Oa'opaci opened in several
parts and ilfued great quantities of water : a small
hi 1 near to the city threw up vad heaps of dones.
This earthquake is said to be much ieverer than '
that which happened in the year >75?.
To add to the general condernation at Quito, it
was affirmed the next day that an inhabitant of
Guavaquil had brought accounts of 14 Englilh
(hips having arrived there ; certain it is, that a
pcrfon who came thence, passed on to Quincbe,
where the president is.
%\)t <!sa3ette*
v ■ ✓
PHILADELPHIA,
-
CITY HOSPITAL REPORT,
From 2d to 3d September, in the Morning.
Admitted, since last report,
Hannah Elmfley, B. Wynkoop's, be
tween Spruce and Pine, in Water-street.
Jaacob Shoemaker, Murduck's, No. n
Stamper's Alley.
Andr6, (a Spaniard) John Bartho
lomew's, 16 Water, above South-street. j
Jane Carney, George's, between Plumb
and Shippen.
William Henderfon, Beyer's boarding
house, Ker.fington.
Difcliarged, since last report.
Ifaaq Hoffman, admitted 27th Aug.
Died since last report.
Robert Parks, admitted Ift inft.
George Tremble, 3 1 ft Aug.
Susannah, (Mrs. Cleod's negro) 30th Aug,
Remaining last report 21
Admitted fiuce 5
26
Discharged ./I
Dead 3 4
Remain in Hospital, 22
Convalescents 5
Sick 17
Stjiphen Girard,'
(Signed.) Caleb Lownes,
John Connelly.
CITT HOSPITAL REPORT,
From 3d to 4th September in the morning.
Admitted since last Report.
James Rowan, Hugh Morrifon's, 172, So.
Front Street.
Henry Gingle, from Germantown, from
Mead alley.
Elizabeth Fullman, 240, So. Froat street,
3 doors from South street.
Heury Hamilton, M'Cormick and Bradly's
. Stave yard, between Front and 2d ftfeet.
discharged.
Patrick Mc. Dowel!—admitted 30th ult.
ELOPKD.
Jane Carnty—adihitted 2d inft.
DfED.
Mary M'Cleod —admitted Ift inft.
Remaining last report 22
Admitted 4
26
Difcbarged 1
Eloped I
Dead 1
Convalescent 5 2 3
Sick 1 ? ,
Five of which ate donbt ul cases
remainder in a fair wry of recovery.
Stephen Girard,
(Signed) Cal.eb Lownes,
J«h» Connelly.
We hear that a Miss Edwards, a sister of
Samuel Edwards, Grocer, died of the Yel
low Fever in the neighbourhood of Pennyt
pack, about 12 miles from the'eity, also
that a son of Samuel Waltham, Jovner, di
ed near the fame place, of the fame (Jifeafe.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
Pour of Philadelphia.
Arrived at New-castle, the ship John
capt. M'Pherfon, from St. Kitt's. Am*
ved at the Fort, the fchr. Friendship, Al
len, from Arquin. Arrived at New-Yorki
the ship Hero, Jackson, from Bengal.
On Sunday fortnight was chafed by a
privateer under French colours. Previous
to her coming up with me, I threw over
board a number of letters and valuable papers
belonging to different merchants in the city,
which I topk in at London and Madeira ;
which had riot I have done, they would most
likely have taken me. After detaining me
4 hours, they let me go. .
WENTWORTH BUTLER,
Majler of the brig Svsannj
New-Torl, Sept. 2.
arrived. Dayi
Lucinda, Gregory, St. Bartholomews 10
Brig Duke of Brunf > ick, Janfon, Embden, (a
Pruflian y, fiV 1) Dunkirk 54
CLEARED.
Ship Fam:?, Durry, I.ondoa
> R f s°ld, Jamaica
Brig Ann, Jones, Curracoa
1 he brig tjannah, from this port to Cape Ni
dio!a Mole, is taken by' three French privateers,
and sent to the Cape. '
J he brig Swiilow, Stoddard, hasarrived at St«
Bartholomews from rhi* port. '
MEMORANDUM,
On board the schooner Argus, Joseph Alien, ,
master.
s,yjed from Jamaica the 13th of Julv, 1797,
binadio New-York.
On the 23d fell in with a fqtVadron of Spanifl*
(hips, confiding of faur line of battle ships. and
3 frigates, one of the frigajes spoke rae, and
brought metßo ; sent a boat with a lieutenant,
examined my papers, treated me with a gi-eat
deal of poiitenefs, cifcfired me to proceed on my
Voyage, and wiihed me a good pafTage.
On the 20th, at twelve at night, Htvannah
being East, ij leagues dillince, tire republican
armed schooner Triumphant, commanded by
eitizen Le Buke, brought me too, and ordered
mc to gst my boat out and come on board with
my papers instantly, otherwise he would fink
me; which I accordingly did-r—he examined my
papers, and told me it was his orders to fend in
all vefTels bound to or from an Englifhport? he
sent a prize master & 4handson boa.*d,&ordered
them to carry fchooner into the
where (he arrived on the rft of Aug'ilt. My
felf was detained on board of the said republican
privateer, She bore away for Cape Antonio
on a cruize.
On the 17th at nine o'clock at night, felt in
with a schooner, bound from Jamaica to New
bcrn, North Caiolina, when I was ordered t<»
quarters, and to hail the said schooner, which
proved to He the Elizabeth, commanded by
Ezekiel Delaflatius ; he was ordered to hoist out '
his boat (at the fame time firing a 4 potrlider)
and to bring his papers »n board immediately;
which he did, and as soon as on board was pre
sented with an inflrument of writing, and de
sired ro sign it, which he refufed to do, not
knowing what was in it, the captain at this re-'
fufal fl«iv in a violent paflion, and ordered a
prize master on board with 4 hands, to proceed
to the Havannah, as I underitood; at the lame
; time detaining me on board ofi the privateer un
til the 1 ithof Auguft.atwhiih tkCe wearrived as
the Havannah, were Ifound the laid fchonner,
fiript of her fails ana hjuled up in tier with the
reft of the prizes; the mate and the crejv w«re
' ordered a (hore without either vicJlualslor mo
ney, t'ie | rize master (till on board.
; I afterwards applied to tlje French Consul, to
know what was to be done He told irie the pa
t pers were to go to Cape Francois so trial," as I
j understood. I then applied to him ? 'd cap
tai.i for my small venture, which they a.so reiu
• fed, and ordered me to go ashore anu nuu my
felf th- heft way I could.
While I was on board the said privateer
she took the following vessels, viz.
The schooner Lively, of Boston, Weftoa
Spooner, master.
The brig Union, of Norfolk, . -
Luke, master.
The brig Norfolk, of Norfolk, John
Dunn, master.
The brig Ebo, of Baltimore, , Mef
, sick, matter.
All of the above vefTels failed on the 18th
and ef July, bound with the convoy
thro' the Windward pafTage, but ou the
evening of the 19th were separated from
the fleet in a gale of wind, and obliged to
bear away for the Gulph pafTage. \
The laid vefTels and crews were treated
in the fame way as the above.
N. B. The brig Betsey, of M. York,
Syru6, master, was taken on the Bth
of Anguft, by the above schooner, at the
fame time under the guns of the Spanish
fleet.
The lchooner Argus's papers could noS
be obtained until the 16th of Anguft, atid
(he was the only vefiel, of 45, that got
cleared.
Capt. Storey, of the brig Trio, expect
ed to fr.il for New-York, in 13 days. Also
thi schooner Tabathy, of Salem, Moses Ju
dicott, master, in 15 days.
On the 27th of Anguft spoke the fchr.
Maria, of Philadelphia, Flinn, n lat. 37,
18, fbur days out, all weil.
Greenock, Eng. July 6.
Two American vefTels boundfor this port,
laden with naval ftorts, have been captured
by the French. One of these, the Ohio,
from New York, had above. j2,0001. in
specie on board for the Glasgow merchants,
exchange being from 5 to 6 per cent, at
'New York for bills on Britain. The other
(hip was from Virginia, and had on board a
large quantity of tar and tobacco, together
with about 3,000 dollars, also sent, as it is
said, for the Glasgow merchants.
T he Health-Office *
IS removed to the City-Hall, and is kept open
night ana day, where persons having bttfirfs may
apply. Wm. ALLEN, Hei'.th-Qfficer.
- Se Pt- ,
NOTICE.
TKE Offices of/the Department of War arc for
the pr. sent removed near to the Falls Oj the icuyi
kill, on the Ridge Road.
September 4. ' - i<£J lift pnblifliecj^
Aikl to be tbjd at the BcokSores of H. tzf P.
Kite, No. ?o, Mar!itt."fireet; J. Ormrod,
Ko. 41, Ciielnuj-ftieet, and W. Your.g,
*orner and Secmid-i'lreets,
An accurate System of Surveying;
IN WHICH IS CONTAIN I D,
1. Decimal fraiiUons, in a plain, concise,
and Italy manner.
2. I'he extraflion of the fquaferoot.
3. Piain trigonometry, redlaiigular and ob
lique.
4- An exatfl method to call up the contenw
*f lands.
5. Piefd Purveying.
r ilie whole being performed without the. life
of scale and cbmpafles, on a table of logarithms.
In which is given some account cf the variation
t»f the needle, and the causes of its attratflion.
By SAMUEL MOORE.
A ll"ljft I. • 23W2W
Georgetown Bridge Company.
Extract of an a<sl pasTed by the Legislature of
the state of Maryland on the 29th December,
1791, entitled, " An a£l for eretfling a bridge
over Potowmac river.
'■ jind be it injßed, that the said diredlors or
Any two »f them shall and may require any lum
01 fiims of money in equal proportion frorti each
and every proprietor, as may from time to time
be necefiary for carrying on the building of said
bridge; rnd astir giving three months public
notice, it (hall and may be lawful for the direc
tors to sue for and racovcr in the name of the
company such unpaid requisition, with all cosh
ai d incidental thei eto, and legal ir.terell
thereon trom the time the fame (hould have
befti paid : And the or refufsl to pay any
such requilition after public notice shall have
been given at least for three months in all the
reu fpapersheiein before enumerated, (hall have
the eflefl te forfeit all preceding paymen's made
c>iith« dtarf or (hares so ncgietfled or retufed to
be paid to the use and benefit of the company."
motion of (uchrf the ftockb aiders as have not
complied with the requisitions heretofore made
—they are as follow : On the id November,
1 ?<&?"> *3 dollar, on the joth 1 May, 1796, 40
dollars pan th< 10th July, 1796, 40 dollars j on
the ill September, 1796, 40 dollars, and on the
Ift November,
now given that after theexpiration of the time
limited for the continuance of this advertise
ment (three months) the law will be carried
into rigid and complete efTc<fl againlt all delin
quents.
By order of theDireftors,
WALTER SMITH, Tnafurtr.
fleorgetown, May 1, 1797?
Jult Received
From Batavia (via Providence)
a few Box«sof Spices, contiftifig of
Nutmegs, Cloves and Mace
For sale by
WILLINGS& FRANCIS,
Penn. street.
May 36 dtf
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 319, High-Street.
GEORGE DAVIS,
BEING bulled for some time past in prrpara
tions for removing into his proi'ent house, has
been under thcnecelfity of poftp ninguntil this cay I
informing the gentlemen ofthe Bar gem rally thro' '
the 1' I'll ted States, that his. spring importation of
lj,w books is now arranged and ready for (ale, cn
terms that he trulls will entitle him to the like pr*-
freence he has experienced for teveral years part. I
Catalogues, combining the mod varied col lee
tion ever imported iiito this country, are printod
, and will be delivered on application.
[un: 27- 2aw 6w
City Commijfioners' Office,
Jure 11, 1797.
IN pursuance of an ordinance from the felefl 1
and common councils, ppfl'ed the 22c! day of
May last, appointing the city ranimilfionrri,
and prefcribir.g their duties, feci ion 9th,
1 NOTICE IS HEREBY GJVKN,
That the city is divided into five dittrifls,
each to be.under the fuperintendance of one of
the city cQmmifiioners, » hois to be individually
relponfible for the cleaulinel's of the fame, and
are as follow.
Dnftridl No. I. From the ftmth fide of Ce
dar-flreet, to the north fide of Spruce-street, on
der the fuperistendence of Nathan Boys.
1. From the north fide of Spruce-street, to
tfif north fide of VValnu'-llreet,under the fuper
imendence of Hugh Roberts.
3. From the north fide of Walnut to the south
fide of H'gh-ftrect, under the fupenntendenee ot
JoTeph Qaypoole.
4. From the north fide of High-street, to the
north fid* of Mulberry street, under the super
intendence cf William Moulder.
5. From the north fide of Mulberry-street to
tlie north fide of iVine-llreet, under rhe fuper
fntendcnce of Nicholas Hicks-
The cleaningof High-street to be in common.
#5" A stated meeting of the city comraifiion-
is held at the Old Court House, in High»
street, every,Tuefday evening at s o'clock
July 14. eoira
Standi for Draymen, Is'c.
In purjuance of an Ordinance from fbeSekH and
Common Councils,bearing date tbe lid day of
April, 1797, providing for the appointment of
City CommiJJiancrs, (Se. i'ed. the 15/16.
r T~''HE following places are fixed upon by the
1- said City Comroifiioners for Stands for
Draymen and their Horses.
In Vine-flreet, eastward of Front-street, on
both fides.
Sa(Tafr.;s, High,Chefnut and Walnut-fttreets,
eaflward of Front-street, on the no. th fide only.
Mulberry-street, south fide from Front to
Third-street.
Front-ftreat, eafl fide from VineWlreet to
Elfrilh's alley.
Front-street, from opposite to Black Horse al
ley to Hamilton's flores, east fide.
YVater-ftreet, weft fide from the north end of
Stomper'-s or Moorr's stores to Pine-street.
Penn-ftreetfrom Pine to Cedar-street, weft
fide.
Drawbridge, north fide, east of Front-street.
Spruce, Pine and South streets, eift of Front
ftkctj south bde.
Dock-street, between Walnut-street and the
flag stone crossings, east fide, opposite George
Ork'sv's.
Second-llreet, between SafTifias and Vine
ftreft?, well fide. (
Fiftli-ftreef, east fide from Chefnut to Mul- ]
berry fti ccts. ,
Sad'afias-ftreet, from Third to Fourth-street,
east fide.
No dray or horse to (land within ten feet of
anvpump. f
ST.iXDS FOR HACKNEY COACHES.
Pine-llreet, north fide from Fourth to Fifth c
streets.
Fifth-ftrett," between Chefnut and Walnut d
streets, weft. t
Branch-ftrect, north fide, between Third and si
Fourth street*. si
July 14. mw&fim p
A Litefafy Treat.
/ JM pullijljcd, handjnmdj printed on writing
'' paper, price I dollar,
>' K rcw edition of that poptilcr and entertaining
work, (.ntitled
; "pHE FORESTERS, an American Tuk ; being
L a fequcl to the hillory of John Bull, the Clo
thier—ln afcriesof letters to a friend, with the ad
dition of fn o lettt'js, alluding to recent political
rranfs&ions in America.
? The following extraiSl from the Clavis Allegorica,
(hews the principal chara&ers that are introduced:
John Bull, the Kingdom of I nland
His Mother, theClurchof England
His Wife, the Parliament
His Sifter Peg, the Church of Scotland
c His Brother Patrick. Ireland
5 - Lewis, the K'ngdotn of France
n HisMiftrcfs, rle Old Conftitction
'• Hit naw Wife, the National Reprefeutation
Lord Strut, the Kingdom of Spain
Nicholas Frog, the Dutch Republic
1 he Franks, the French Republic
The Farefters, the United Statesof America
'I Robert Lumber, Ni-w-Hamplhire
") John Codline, MalTachufetts
;e Humphrey Plowlbare, Connecticut
Roger Carrier, Rhode Iflund
ir Peter Bull Frag, New-York
n Julius Cseiar, New-Jersey
It William Broadbrim, Peanfylvania
e Caffimar, Delaware
d Walter Pipewood, Virginia
c His Orandfon, George Washington
Peter Pitch, North CaroS;.a
e Charles Indigo, ioutk Carolina
George TrufPy, Georgia
Ethan Greenwood, Vermont
Hunter Longknife, Kentucky
I Black Cattle, Negro Slaves
J Rats, -peculator#
Mother Carey's Chickens, Jacobins
c & This popular and entertainingfstjrieal hifto
c ry 0/ Ammica is attributed to the Rev. Dr. Bsl
e knap. It hasagrtat (hare of originality and a
-0 bounds with genuine humour. It is continued
down to the present time, and chsraAerifes those
>t late political tranfa&ions which , have caused so
e much uoeafinefv in America.
•, Sold hy H. and P. RICE, Booltfeller, No. 16,
II > South Second Street, and No. 50, Markc ftjeet.
n | 16. |
• I LAW BOOKS,
r | Latest London and Editions.
1 H. &P. RICE, Booksellers,
1- No. 16, South Second, and No. Jo, Market street,
HAVE jull received by the late arrivals from
London and Dublin, their spring importa
tion, confiding of a variety of the latest and mod
. approved law Books, which, added to those alrea
dy on hand, forms the moftextenfive collection ev
er offered for fa!e in this country. They thei efore
beg leave to notii*, that Irom the nature of their
conne&knsin Dut>lin, they are enabled to felllriih
editions (as they have hitherto done) at the very
lowest price*. The following are among the latest
publications.
Vefty, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, 1 \J.t.
Peakt's Cases Nisi Prius ; Ridgeway's Reports
in the time of Lord Hardwickn ; Flayer's Probers
PraiSice in the Eectefiaftical Courts; Barton's
Treatise on a 9uit in Equity; Tidd's Practice of
the Court of King's Bench in Personal A&ions, j
parts complete ; Ward's Law of
on Uses ; modern Reports, I % vols. London edi
. tion,
5 H. and P. Rici expeft ta receive by the firft ar
j 1 rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
■ I Durnford and East's Reports, the 2d part of Gil
[ bert'sl.aw of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
, new publications.
June 26.
1 The History of Pennfvlvania, S
1 By ROBERT PROUD,
IS now in the pref«, and will be publilhed,
with all convenient expedition, by ZiCHA
RIAH Poulson, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where lubferiptionj will continue
to bt received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
t I according to the printed prop„fals, tintil the
F work IS ready for the fubferibert.
, J"ly 'B. lawtf
Printed Calicoes.
JOHNMILLER, Jun. & Co.
N«. 8 Chefnut-Street,
Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly assorted, very low on
Ihort credit.
March 6. $
Richard and James Potter
HAVF. removed their Counting House to No.
45, South Tifth-ftrtet.
uguft ». w&f6t
Lancaster, Harrifjurgb Carlijle,
Sfrppenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
' I 'HE public are req-uefted to tike notice, that
L the partnership which has far foihe time fob
fifted bctwesn Mathias Slough of Laneafter, and.
William Geer, is now cfiflolved ; bat, not as M.
Slough infinuitesto the public without }uft cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fub
je<£l from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 29th
December last. a re&ital of which it not tow deem- ]
ed nccelTary. Any gentleman wh» wifties to be
more circumstantially informed of the merits of !
. this business, by applying to W. Geer may have :
the perusal »f M. Slouch's letter, and then can be j
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfe&ly juftifiabie in attaching him
felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from PhilJdelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous fuppprt the
public were pleased to confer on the firft effort in
this business, William Geer, in conjunction with
Messrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is" determined
lo profefute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention and dispatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can polCbly exert. ,
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horses, and evury appurtenance to
rentier the passage fefe and eommodious, inform
thofa wno wifb to patronirc and encourage the
undertaking, that they ran take thair feats at
George the sign of the White Horse.,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Laneafter, Harrifburg,
Cwlifle and Shippenfburg. The fare as hitherto
eftcblilhed.'
Per the further accommodation of the public,
a Stage will start every Wednesday from the house
of Samuel Elder, in Hafrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thurlday,
and return from thcoce and arrive at Hairifburg
every Saturday, so that passengers deflined for
Laneafter or Philadelphia, may proceed on Mon
days.
WILLIAM GEER.
L*ncafler. Jan. »7, I£97*
N. B Thi» Line ef Stages starts from ths
haufe of William Ferrse, ill Laneafter, 011 every
'Tueiday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
ceeding to the westward; and from the house of
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg every Wednes
day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns
from thenc: on ever/ Thurlday : pcrformirg the 1
fctfne rosrtin* daily* a» in its tour from Philadel
phia. mvrf
Mt
City 6f Wellington.
S CHEM E
Of the Lottery, No. II 4
: Fir the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificent dwelling-bouse lc,ooodoKir«,
; * ca Al 30»ooo, ire 50,0011
J ditto 15,000 & cask 15,000 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 & <"-afh Is>ooo 30,000
J ditto io,oo<> & cafli io,oo<> »0,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 4c cash 5,000 10,000
1 cifh prize of 10,000
» do. 5,090 each, arc • 10.000
10 do. 1,000 • - itraiou
iodo. 500 - - 10,000
00. do. 100 - - 10,000
■J.to do. 50 - - 10,000
400 do. 15 - 10,000
f>ooo do. 10 - 3o,odfi
lJ,oo® do. 10 - ito,ooo
" \
Prizes.
3J,i6i RUtiks.
sc,oca Trckets, at Eight Bellari, 400,000
tJ. B. Tofwour thofewho may take a quan
tity of Titfccts,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the l ist drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the LAsfr
but oni :
And apffroved notes, fecuriujr payment in either
money or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received for anynumtcr not lefsthau 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen »f
cbe.priva.te buildings to be <rtdlcd in the City ef
Vy athington—Two beautiful defigos are already
(aleilcd for the entire fronts on two of the public
fqiiares; from thefedrawl|igMtisprGpofedtoere&
twocentreand r oiircorner Buildings.a* soon aspof
fible after this lottery is fold, and to convey thera,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, ia
the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduflion of five per cent. wil|
be made to defray the necessary expenses of prim
ing, &c. and the surplus- will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National University, to
be circled within the city of Washington.
The reaifecuritjesgiven for the payment of the
Prizes, are held br tl'e frefident and two Direct
ors of tr.r iiwik <yf Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount of the lottery.
SAMUEL BLODGHT.
Tickets may be had at the Bank ot Colum
bia ; of Janses Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Fcter
Gilman, Boston : of John Hepkins, Richmond ;
and of Richard Woils, Cooper's Ferry.
mwf
Frim lie Otfego Herald.
, CAUTION.
WHEREAS a combination of men in thai
county have undertaken to enrich th«m
---t felve»,hy fabricating titles tofundr/ valuable tra&a
of land, the property of gentlemen living in New
York, Philadelphia, London and Paris, for which
trails of hnd large sums of money have been plid
to those fraudulent men, by innocent purchasers •
It is therefore just that public information (hotild
be given, to the end, that the injured may feekre
drefs while the men have property, and are to be
found. Those who have been discovered are Tru
nin Harrifon, Joseph Witcomb, said now to re
side in the county of Saratoga ; Thomas Kelly and
several other! who go under fi£Ht:ous names. It ia
supposed that the lands offered fcr sal« on these fa
bricated titles, are at lead worth fifty thousand
dollar*. Such as we have aitual knowledge of are
as I'ui'-nvß : Lots No. II and 11, Otfejce patent,
thousand acres each, the a&ual property of William
Uellw>n, now of London ; lota No. 58 and 64,
Pstent, thoufafcd «cres each, the pfperty of !
(.baumour, no<v of Paris, and imci Averill ]
! tad otFers, ot this State. There is some grounds
! to fupjwfe that the lands cf Richard Wells and 1
, Wharton, of Philadelphia, are under their ,
—The Printers will do well to give
this a place in their papers, as 'Well to caution the
public against purchasing those lauia, as also to de
prive those men in future from imposing on indivi- 1
duals, which their education and address have en- I
abled thtm to do heretofore. Witcomb has been
a shopkeeper of some note in this country.
The "following affidavits will fct in,a clear point ;
of »iew th. wicksdnels of those men,which when
the public have peruf d, will induce them to es
cufc the interference of Wm. COOPER.
Otfego, July 18th, 1797.
I Thomas Kelly, of the County of Otfego, hav
ing been led into an error, by John Wit emb and
Truman Harrifon, of tha fame County, to sign a
deed to them, for lot No. 58, Otfego patent, which
was the property of William T. Franklin now Mr.
Chamont's and others; snd further the said Joseph
and Truman did persuade me to do this against my
inclination, which was made cut 011 the ic th day
of November, 1793, or let back two years so as
to bring it to that time ; and further the nam* of
Pardon Starks to that deed was a fictitious name,
there being no fact perlcn there. To this I make
voluntary oath/ ' THOMAS KELLY.
19th July, 1797.
On the i9th July, 1797, came personally before
me, I homas JCelly, the fubfcribtr to the above af
fidavit, and made Ailemn oath chat it contains noth
ing hut th- trufh.
FLIHU PHINNEY, Justice of the Peace.
On the iikhjuly, 1797, oame before me Jacob
Kibby, a person by me wcll,ki:own and worthy of
good credit, who bnhi. solemn oath did fay, that
two of the parties abovamentioned did make ap
pl.catjon to him this deponent, some tjme in the
winter of 1796,10 make chem* deed for twotho®-
sand ac»«s of land in the Otcgo patent, and pro
!mifed this dtponent a share of the profit.*, on the
sale of said lands, for bis so doing ; and th .t they
made application several times for the fame purpo'e,
which fervicss this deponent as often refufed, de
claring to th ru that he had no right to lands, and
ccukido no fucb thing ; which daring attempt on
I th;s deponent's integrity he had related anong his
friends several times, previous to making this affi
davit. JACOB K.IB3EY.
Sworn before mc,
ELIHU PHLNNEY, Justice of the Peace.
Aug. 1 iaw4W.
i'hirty Dollars Reward.
ELOPED from the ftrvice of the fubferiber,
1 on the 19th inflant, a negro rnnii by the
name of DICK, about twenty-five years of age,
and five feet nine or ten inches high ; .by trade
a carpenter, and is a very lively brilk work
man. His countenance is very good—When
spoken to, he converles with ease and confi
dence, ar.d is I purchased
the said fellow cf Mr. DuUney Minor, in whose
name he has been advqrtifed in the Richmond
tiewfpapc-rs. t)»ringhis last runaway trip ('aft
fumnier ) lie wa» employed a eonliderabhe length
of time, by some perl'on near Dumfries, from
which circumftauce, I conjeiStire, he hastalcen
another nothern route I forewarm ail pci sons
from giving him employment, of any kind
whatever, and maftersof vcfliUand ethers, from
carrying him out of this state. The above re
ward will be given if he is taken within forty (
miles of this city ; and additional lum, iff
proportion to the distance be brought,
or the trouble and cxpence the apprehender may
be at, in bringing him to this place.
AUG; DAVIS.
N. II His apparclwas of the ul'ual negro kind, 1
-but lie had more cloaths than ia customary for
them to poflefs.
A,D.
Richmond, June 11, 1797."
I Will be Landcci,
I Frcm onboard the ship Adtiie, Capt.BLAin,from
Hamburgh,
20 Bales white Ruflia clean Hemp
1 iaflcs Clover Seed
For Sale by
Thomas Herman Leuffcr,
North Fifth ilrcet, No. 34.
( Tunc vft. t
; William Blackburn,
> LOTTERr and BROKER'S OFFICE
) No. 64 south Second'flreet.
TICKETS in the Canal Lfiltoty, No. If, which
commenced drawine th" lytli May, FOR
S ALE. The pricfc of tickc v wilt We ip' propor
, tion as the dnwing particularly on'ae
( count of the five firft drawn 'tickets, prizes of
i four thousand dollars each, on the lift day ot
drawing.
Check Books kept and regifter
iog, in the Canal, No. 1, City of Walhiagton, No.
2, and Paterfon Lotteries.
Also, tickets for sale in the Schuy'.!. ill bridge and
Perk omen Bridge lot"***, which w ill begin
drawing in the cotirfe of the fsmmer.
"I'he buiinefs of a Broker i:i all kinds of Stock,
Notes v Lands, &c- &c. trarfailed with the
utiuoft attention. '
June 2 ,tuif
Erfliine's View x>f the \Var.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No 40 South Second flrect,
[Price 31 Cents]'
A of the Caufet and Consequen
ces of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Eiskine.
May 15 §
"state trials. '
Sold by W.Youac, Bookseller, No. 51, South ge
cond-ftreet,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
CONtaining the impeachment, trial, and acqviu
al of Francis Hopkinfon, Judge of the Court of
Admiralty, and John Nicholfon, Comptroller Gen
eral—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards. 7
dollar..
W. Young has for sale, a general affortmentof
Books. Also, StatioDary, retail and by the pack
ege, well aflopted,and entitled to the drawback if
axperted. July
f"'HESUBSCRIBER having been appointed by
X.( the Envoy Kxlraordinary and Minilter Pleiii
potentiarv of hia Britannic Majesty, General A gent
for aCGftuig Britilh creditors, and lueh particular a
gents as th«y may fpeciallv auihorize, in prosecuting
their cUims before the cwf.imiflioners for cm rying i»-
' u> efFeft the sixth article ot the Treaty of Amity, Com
merce and Navigation between his Britannic LajeJly and
the United States of Anerica % hereby gives notice that
he has opened his office at his house the fouili east
corner of Chefnut and fifth (beets, Philadelphia,
1 where he is ready to receive all claims or iohruftions
for claims with the vouchers aud documents thereof,
for the purpofe.of bringing forward the fame agree
ably so the rules and orders which the boaid may
think proper to prescribe.
And at it will be for theimereft of all concerned,
that the several claims be so dated, and support
ed, as to prevent the delay would arise from
the neceflityof obtaining further information, or ad
ditional materials,from perlons reflding at a dillance,
, the general agent thinks it his duty to add, (far the
dire&ion chitfly of thpfe, wko, not having employ
ed particular agents, may leave the prpfeeution of
their claims to his charge and management) that all
such claima ought in particular to feiforlh—
Thepiopcr defcnp.ion and fitoation cf the
creditor or claimant, end original debtor, refpe&-
' ively.
•d. The date andnatureof the original etntra&or
debt,
3d. When, in wbat manner, and to what extent,
the creditor or claimant w_s pievented or impeded,
by the provision, opcraiu n or defetfr of law, the
deciGonsajnd practice of courts, or teilraint of exe
cution, from recovering payment of the debt in
. question.
4th The loss and damage incurred or sustained,
' iDconfcquer.ce ot such impediments, whether the
fame may h»ve arisen from the infolvcney, change of
• lituation, or death of the debtor, the loss of legal
! remedy fiom laple of time, or impairing
the value and fecuntyof the debt, which would not
have so operated if fucb impediments had not exiHed.
Andst.h The particular grounds and reasons on
which the claimant maintains, in the teems of the
treaty, that J* by the ordinary courfc of judicial pro
ings, the creditor cannot now obtain and actually
have and receive lull and adequate compensation" for
the lodes and damages (o fultaiued.
The general ageni thinks it his duty further to ftf£-
gefl that the f verai claims otight to be accompanied
and fupponed by Uie afiJaviti of the claimants duly
sworn and regularly atiefled, both as to the exillfcnfce
of the debts claimed, and such other circumftancos
as may be within their own knowledge refpc&ively.
And wherever the claimants in tiating the nature of
their evidence (which must in every irJUncc be the
bed of which tiie aaJe is capable) have occasion to
lefer to tht tetlimony of witoeffes, it will be propei
to appufe the general agent of the names and places
of residence of such witncffesajid the fa&sto be elta
blifiicd by their tellimony.
JVni. Mcors Smith.
Philadelphia. June Bth, 1797* d
For Slale,
That well known place, catied
r * r r y,
ON Neflurr.iny cre*k, 18 miles from Phi
ladelphia, on the New York post road,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
prernifes arp a largtt two ft«ry llene house occu>-
pied as a tvern, and a good'one story flotie kit
chen, a largs frame flable with a good threshing
floor, and' some out buildings—also a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
this place is a irnift elegant lituation fora gentle
man's feat, commanding a view of the Neiham
iny toicsjunflioii wiih the Delaware, and thence
across to the Jerfcy shore. It has the privilege
of one half the 101 l received from the bridge.
For term* apply to the Sabfcriber,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
Vsv 24. stJWtf.
COLUMBIA HOUbE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROQMBRIDGE with m«ch pleaf
ureand r«fpeiTl, refjrps' her linccre ac
knowledgemcut for the liberal ericouragcroewt
she has received during four years residence i»
Philadelphia ; and allures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, she has madea superior arrangem«nt for
the more convenient accommodation of l>er
llholars.—Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groombridge and maflws excelling in their
refpeilive profcfTiona.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797. .^iroftf
The situation is perfeilly healthy ; apdmade
more agreeable-by an extensive garden and lot
of grrund adjoining the house.
Juji Publi/hcd,
And to be had of Mtflrs. Dolefon, Campbell,Rice,
l*he other pricipal Bookfcliers in tSe
city,price cue dollar, twinty-fiye cents,in boards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of .America.
By BENJiMIN SMITH B/.P-TON, m.d.
June jo.
' jj - ' ' ' ' \ '
No. i o 3.
Dj/Iri3 of Penrfyhanla, to ait ;
l. s. that on the
fifteenth d.:y of June, irt ti.e twenty
ti-Jl year or the Independence of the United
States of America, J.imis Woodhoisf, of
the laid diltria, h-th depoiittd int!i:. office the
tit;e ot a book, the right whereof he claims as
► author, in tl.e words following, to wit :
"'The Cheiniit's Pocket Companion,
being a Defcriptirn of a Portable Lubaratory,
" Containing a Philosophical apparatus, and a
" great number of Chemical Agents, by which
" any inav perform an endless variety of
'• aniulirrg a-nd ihflftifling Experiments, defiynr
" ed fortheufeof ladies and gentlemen, and
" intended to promote the cultivation of the
" Sc.ei.ce of Chemistry in the United States of
" America. By James WosdhOUSß, M. D.
" Profeffbr of Chemistry, in the University of
" Ppnnfylyavia, Prefuleut of the Chemical So
j " ciety of Philadelphia, &c.
" At present every thine that is not denomi
-14 natcd Cberniflry, is but a fniall part of a fyf.
" tern of natural knowledge.
» Prie/lfy on /fir "
In conformity to the ail of the Co-igtefs of tlfS
UuitedStates, intituled,«« Aflntf for the encour
agement of Learning, by fecuiirgtfit ctfpies of
maps, charts, and books to the authors and pro->
pnetors of such copies, during the times there
in mentioneiL/'
SAMUEL CALDWELL, Clerk of the
i)iiiri<3 of Pennfylvauia.
July 18. djt—wstf
-—— •v
No. 188.
D'flrid of Pennsylvania, 4o wit :
(l. a.) P. E IT REMEMBERED, that on the
A.) twenty sixth day of July, in the twen
ty second yea}- of the independence of the United
Sratcs or' America, John Fenno, of the said dif
triA,hath deposited in this office the title of a book,
the right whereof he claims as proprietor, in the
word* following, to wit:
" Observations on certain documents contained
" in No. V. and VI. of " The History of the Uni
t" ed States for the year 1796," in which the charge
" of speculation, against Alexander Hamilton, lite
" Secretary of the Treufury, is fully refuted—
" Written by himfeif."
In conformity to-he aft of the Corgrefs of the
Ucited States, entituled, " An for thuencour
agement of learning, by securing the copies of
maps, charts and books to the authors and propri
etors of luch copies, during th» times therein men
tioned." ,
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Cltrk of the DJlritl of 1* cr.ujyl'janim .
J"'y *7- , • w 4 w
Public Notice is hereby given,
THAT at June term, 179/, a petition wai
presented to the Court of Common Fleai,
held at York Town, in the State of Pennsylva
nia, at the inftahce of JameJ Short, praying
the Court to supply a loft deed made by a cer
tain Andrew Hickeplubcr, to Hugh Morrifoifr.
James Morrifon, and John Samole, executors
to Hans Murrifen, deceased, for fix hundred
acres .of Land, situate in Menallea
townfliip, in the county of York .-—AH per
sons who have any objections to make to the ob
j[e& of the fiidpetitio# are desired to attend at
the Court Haule, in the town of York, o«i the
jth day of September next, otherwise the loft
deed will be supplied.
JOHN EDIE, Clerk.
"July 1!. eetSi^
30 Dollars Reward.
RAN away on Saturday last, two indented Ser
vants, a mulatto hoy abouc iy
years of age, a Aim light built adive ftl.ow, can
read and write,five feet feveu or eight inches high,
has a heavy countenance; had on n tuftian coatee
and trowfem, a high crowned hat, fine shoes &c.
Allan Heilons, a black man, about 24 yearfof
age, five feet seven or eight inches high, a thick set
cfuufy built fallow, particularly about the breech;
had'on a faiior's blue jackit lined with fwanlkin,
dark frriped vest, fuftiarj trowfers, high crowned
hat, coarse (hoes &c.; each of 'them had several
Ihirts and several other cloathes with them. Thir
ty Dollars will be paid for the runaways or r?dol
lars for each, and reasonable charges, on deliveries;
them at No. 54, North Third-street-
The black fellow is about a year "from Lewis
Town, in the County of Sulf x, state of Dela
ware, and has taken the bey with him.
July 31.
' ; C A U T I O N.
WHEREAS Richard Laki has keen at
tempting to fell a certain mefTuageor ten
ement and lot of ground, situated on the foutU
fide of Vine-fltreet, 111 the city of Philadelphia
containing in breadth, 011 Vine-street. fix;eea
feet, and in depth, louthward, seventy five feet,
bounded on the north fide by Vine-street, on
theeaft by ground late of Samuel Rhodes and
Sarah his wife, on the fouthby ground late ef
John Pernbe. ton, and on the weft by another lot
then about to be granted to Joseph Hulings—
This Is therefore to caution all persons agiin.t
purchasing the above described property, the
fame having been 'mortgaged by the said I\ich
ard Lak£ to William Spade,
SARAH SPADE.
July 14 eo2w
Muftcal Injlrumcnt ManufaCioty,
A'o. 167, Sfrcb-Street.
HARPER, hafpfichord,grand, portable gra»d,
fid'-board, pier table ar.d fquart pi?.t o torte
makir from London, returns tttouksto his friends
the public, for their liberal eiiccura^emcnt,
and hopes that by his aflic'uity a?id atfeniit n to ev
ery bfarch of his butne.fs, to 1* erit a continuance
of theirfdvors. Piano fertes made on th« ueweft
and moll approved plans, with pedals, pateH?.,
swell, and french haip flop, which he fl.:tt<;i«
himfeif will ue found on tri -1 by unprejudiced
judges, to be equal if not fupericrto any import
ed, and twenty percent cheaper. Ai y ir.flcu
mi nt purcha-'cd of him, if sot approved of in
twelve months, he will exchange.
N.B. Alikindsof Muficil mftrunients m*di' (
uned, and repairev.' with the grcati.ll accuracy,
dispatch, and on the raolt reasonable term?, t t f
readymoney only.
Second h.nd Piano Fortes takt n in exchange,
May tv. Scam.
Forty Dollars Regard,
RAN away from the fublcribtr on the fecg
end day of this inll JiJy, a Mulatto Matt*
named Will Bowzer,.aboi,t forty years of age,
five feet seven or eight inches high, rather
chunky mtde ; had on when he vent away, a
drab colored cloth coat, firiped purple trow i'ers
and jacket. It probabJe hi will change hi*
cloathes, as he a 1 umber with hitn. The
fanl fel'ow formerly helcnged to Mr. Charles
Blake of this place; and it is expedted he has
made towards Jones's Neck, in the Delaware
Sta;e.—Any person apprehending the l«id fel
low, a«d securing him so that I get him z
gain, ihall receive the above rewar if taken
<Vjt of the county; and Twenty Dollars if in
the county, and all reafov,able cWgcs if Uro't
hoiae^
JESSE REED,
Qt-een Anu's Caunty, Maryland.
"J u, y 3-