of eijc anb Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1608.]
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Saks
For DRY GOOD S.
('Forenoon —Edward Fox, No. j6,
MonaayJ . f" wh FroJit-ftrcet.
1 Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 65
C. South Front-ftrtet.
f Forenoon—John Connelly, Old City
V Uf rj,, v ) Aufiion, No. 73 fouA i'ront-llrect.
' ) Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
C 183 High-street.
miuefday \ dcnf ° n ' N °' 74
I south Third-flrcet.
Thursday \ Forenoon-Edward Fox.
(_ Afternoon—John Connelly.
Friday X F° rcr " )on —William Shannon.
J Afternoon—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
For sale by the Subscriber,
No. 89, South Third street,
A ci/ks of high proof Brandy
60 Tie r ce 3 ffeHi Uice
40 Boxts of Chocolate
A large quantity of auorted window glass, and
100 pieces fail clotfr, No. I to 8
Havens Duck, Mace and Gum Senegal.
Samuel Brick, , Jun.
N- B An excellent Compting House to let on
Rofis's wharf.
NofemVier 2 6teod
~ R E M~OV A L.
Maurice Moynihan,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he
has removed his Store of China, GUIs, Queens
Ware, and Dry Goods, from No. 8l North Se
cond, to No. 71 North Seventh Street, north tall
corner of Cherry Alley, where he solicits the fa
vor of his former customers.
N. 8. Crates put up with care at the Ihorteft
no'ice.
Nevember a. dtf
~f« Gentlemen who intend /pending
the Winter in the City.
ROOMS to LET,
WITH cr without Board—at No. 114, corner
of iixth and Race Streets. The lituation
agreeable—and vicinity has been free from the late
contagion. Od. r—dtf
Samuel Pleafants isf Sons,
No. 74, Senth SecondJlreel,
HAVE received a supply of Seasonable GOOD Si,
which they are now opening for sale, on
reafonablc terms. Qit 27. —41*
St. Croix Sugar iff Rum,
For Sale by
JOHN NIXON fcf Co.
OS. »6. diw.
James isf Richard Smith,
TAKE the liberty of informing their friends
a.id the public, that they have removed their
Uore to No. J4, Sml.b front Jlreel, next d«Or to Ed
ward Fox's Auction iloom, where they have at
this time for sale, a lajqgc and general aflcrtment of
European EaJl India Goods,
frtany of which are just imported in the Clothier,
Williarh Peiui, &c. &c.
OfY. 17. i
Now Landing,
At Sims' Wharf, from on board tj?e(hip Comment,
captain Chamberlain, from Port au Prince^
35 hoglheads of SUGAR
84 do. MOL ASSES
4 tierces do.
FOR SALE, BT
Philips, Cramond, & Co.
oft. 27. 5
The Subscribers have for Sale,
THE FOLLOWING GOODS—viz.
India Calicos Cordage
Baftas MouldCar.dles ~f infmall
Satty Rornals White Soap j" boies
Slue and red do. £aft India Sugar
Hummums Heavy black Pepper
Malmuls Holland Gin, in pipes
bo. Handkerchiefs Red & white Port Wine
Sprigged and flowered Old Mad«ira Wine, fit
fine Mufliirs for immediate use
Book Muslins Sherry
Bed Covers, of printed Claret, in cases
Muslin Taunton Ale
India Pcrfians Snglifh Porter
Dorens 42 qr. calks Gun Powder
Black Taffttics A wt'onght iron Book
Chimfe Sewing Silks Cafe
tail India Hi nip
Philips, Cramond, & Co.
November I §6t
TO BE SOLD,
And immediate fojfejjicn given,
A Convenient well fiuilhed Brick Tenement,
■with a cook house andother out houfes.fitu
atcd in a pleasant part of the borough of Wilming
ton, in the St.ite of Delaware—The lot Of ground
has forty feet froi:t on West-street, and extends
through the (quarc to Pasture-street, on which is
creeled a liable and carriage honfe.
ALLEN M'LANE.
Wilmington, Aug. 30.
Philadelphia, 03. 13.
THE fubferibers inform their friends,and cufto
rners in town and country,that their llores are now
open ip the city, and others are daily opening, and
{hat from the prefept appearance ef the prevailing
disorder have reason to hope, their friends mrt
(hortly come to the city with perfect fafcty. By
CeveraJ late arrivals, numbers have received freik
Supplies of GOODS.
Robert Smith & Co. P IV. Gallaudet tSf Cl.
John Davis £3* Co. Sitgreavej Of French,
Weill iff Smith, George Dobfon,
mitberger and Smith, Thomas Ryer/on,
Alex Sitjlani and Co. T. R. Hardenberg.
Jacob Sherry and Co. John Smith and Co-
Owen <j Jona. Jones, Thomas Orr,
Keppete Cis Zantiinger, IVilliam Barker & Co.
Adairi Zantzmger, Thomas Armat £3" Son.
John Fries, J- Miller, jun. and Co-
Bf .jantin ISf J- Johr/ort. ,
Oi3. 14
Wanted, to Hire, J
Al.arge and convenient HOUSE, in or near
the centre of the city—for vVhich a geaerous ,
rent will be given ; to be taken for a year, or on
Jeafe for a longer term. Inquireof this Printer.
Oil. 17. eotf
PHILADELPHIA: FRIDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 3, , 797
For Baltimore,
THE brig
Fcggy,
, John Str£n, Majler y
A VtRV firft failing vcflVl, 'a ith good accomrao
. nations far PafTeiigers—Now Wing at the wharf next
below Market-ttreet. She bas' ..bout half hpr cargo
> on board, &nd will be icadv to in a few day*.
For freight or paHage apply to the Mailer oa board,
" or to '
Samuel iff Mitrs Fijher.
«. d 3 t
Port and tViadeira Wine,
Now Landing,
By fliip Edward, from Madeira, and Bttfsy and
P e ?gy> ,r9 ' s ' Oprrto, in Pipes and Hogsheads,
For sale by
PETER BLIGHT.
WHO ALSO OFFkRS FOR SAII,
AMITY,
Four thousand barrels burthen,
iifeiS-- i n excellent order—ready to take
in a cargo—about three years old.
likewise,
The Schooner Industry,
Bnrthen 800 barrels, ready also to receive a car
go—and a quantity of
Jamaica Rum and Sugars,
Just; landed from the above vefle's at South ftrcet
wharf.
Nov 1. * Jeoim.
i 1 or London,
tMki VENN,
J amcs Jofiah, Majler,
85y$3H&w iLL w ' l ' l ®" coßvrn *
W ient expedition. For
Freight or Paflage, apply to the Captain, er to
jfejfe C9 5 Robert Wain.
Oil. 31. _ $
For Charter,
THt SHIP
• John Bulkley,
Samuel Volaris, Majler.
'vAiri vessel is built of live oak
' I and cedar, of about 30CO
barrels burthen, and ready .to receive on board a
cargo.
JeJfe iff Robert Wain.
OA. jt. §
For SAVANNAH,
. the fast sailing Irflf
Swift Packet,
"\ * s - P atr ' Gribbin, Mqfier.
! -f >/SuiA . NOW lying at Smith's wharf,
above Race-street. Is haudfome-
Iy accommodated for palTengcrs, and will fail with
all convenient speed. tor freight or pafTage,apply
to rhe Master on board, or >t Ho. 95, South
Front-street, or of the fuhferibers, \
N. is? y. Frazier.
oa. 28. dtf
for St. Thomas's,
THE DANISH BRIO
f >rince Frederick,
V-Francis Geolfi, Majler.
WILL fail with all convenient fpoed, having
the greater part of her cargo r«aHy to go
onboard. For Freight or Pa (Tape, apply to the
Captain, or to JOSEPH SIMS.
oa. qg. §6t
For London,
rAX~V- THX SHtp
Daniel M'Pherfon, Majler.
TO fail with all convenient speed—a conlidcra
blc part of her cargo being already engaged.
For terms of Freight or Passage, apply to
Rofs '& Sim/on.
oa. ay.
For Freight or Charter,
WfSllir Abel Catberina,
JSSqslctjw Burthen about 160 tons.
THIS velTel is now ready to receive on board a
cargo, and inay be dispatched to any port in Eu
rope or the Mediterranean in eight days.
Apply to the Captain on board, or to the fubferi
ber. JAIWE3 YARD.
Oct 19. diet
For Freight or Charter,
THE GOOD BRIG
S U K E Y,
Isaac Vredenburg, Master ;
NOW lying at Clifford's wharf, and in cottipleat
order to receive a cargo. For terms please to ap
ply the Captain en board, or
John Slyrin,
No. 81, Arch-ftrcct.
WHO HAS FOR SALE,
2000 wt.of doublerefinedSaltpetrc
600 wt. of F F Gun Powder
300 barrels of Herrings
50 bulhels of Timothy Seed
150 cafe? of Claret, firft quality
And a qnantity of Sherry Wine.
Sept. 19.
Antigua Rum,
JUST arrived at Wilmington, Delaware
State, and now landing from on board the
Brig A.ilive, William VVillum«, Master,
One hundred hhds.. 3d & 4th proof, ;
And for Sale by ,
Jehu Holitngf-worih & Co.
Wilmington, Sept.n. dtf
•mCSCS*— 1 * N. B. The above Brig,
and the brig GAYOSO, are j
a "° I ' e or Charter, and '
. | now ready to rceeive a cargo
on hoard, at Wilmington. Apply as above. (
Red Port Wine. 1
Just arrived, by the brig Iris, capt. Rhodes, from '
Oporto,
fted Port Wine in pipes,hhds. and quarter calks
5C cwt. Cork, for Tale by
Philips, Cramond, & Co.
July U. 5 (
By John Fenno, N°- 119 Cbcfnut Street.
NO T I C E.
The holders of certificates of a
j loan to 1 he t jlifal citizens of tin §tatc of .South Oa
| rolina and Georgia, under ::n adk of £iftgt»l« »jd
- J iu'y, 173r, are informal, rhathy the fjaie
t «'it!iGeorge Slmplon, Ca-feier of the Bank of the
) UiitttdStates, ti-.cy will be enabled to receive ply
raent of princifil aud intercft, as soon as the c<rti
, ficates can be forwarded to Charleston for fettle
meat, and orders received for their discharge.
N'ov.-mha-i. '
Young Ladies' Academy
( OF PHILADELPHIA.
' THE Public are informed, that
the laid Academy will be open on Monday, the
1 sixth of Nov. inft. for the reception of pupils.
JOHN POOR, Principal.
N. B. A fchoolfor fcdyj will opened on the'
evening of fa id day.
d6t.
Philadelphia, Oa. 24th, 1797.
ALL perfen* deiirousto coi.trait to furnilh Ra
tions and Quarter
for the troops in Philadelphia, Fort
, &limin, 011 Miiu liland, Carliile and Reading, or
any of them, are d'efired to deliver their propolals,
under a sealed cover, os or before tile aoth No
vember next, to
TENCH FRANCIS, Purveyor.
The Rations to ecnfijl of ' '
I pound Flour or Bread
I pour.d Beef, or 4of a pound of P«rk
i gill Rum, Brandy or Whifltty -
1 lb. Candles
a lb. Soap / ,
» quarts Vipegar ( T * e * er >' hur ' dred
l qnort Salt J JtfrtlgthN
From Marfeilies. •
THE CARGO
Of the Swedilh barque Guftavis Adolphus, from
Marfeilies, confilting of the Following articles,
istiifchaiging at Mr. Latimff's whlrf, and fcT
sale by the fubferibers
DIiANDY, well flavored, of 2, 3 & 4th proof
Claret, in hogsheads
Ditto, in cases
Frontier,lie Wine, in cases rf 30 bottles
Olive Oil, of a superior quality, in baskets of 6
and I i bottles
Capers
Olives
Alfflonds
Dry Verdigreafe
Writing Paper
Umbrellas (Silk) ef iS, 30 ind 31 inches
T afFeties
Long and (hort white Kid Gloves f»r Women
Silk Stockings
Handkerchiefs, in imitation of Madrafs
Artificial Flowers and Garlands
Ostrich Feathers
Ribbons
Perfuihery
Scented Hair-Pdwder and Pomatum
Manna in forts
Cream Tartar.
BENJAMIN MORGAN &
ROBERT ANDREWS.
September 47. eotf
Imported inthefhip Manchester,
Benjamin Shewell, Master,
From UounUauA, and for fafe 6y the fubferiber,
No. n Walnut Street.
Bonrdeaux Brandy "J
Irilh market claret in cases ( Entitled N to
Medocwioe, in do. f Drawback.
Sauterne, do. da. J
Thomas Murgafreyd.
WHO HAS FOR' SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter caflcs
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
4000 bufkels Liverpool fait.
Aug;. 24. tutitstf.
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given,
' I "HAT agreeably to aji a& of Congress of the
J United States of America, palled at Phila
delphia, the 18th day of May, 179 ft > laying du«
riss on Carriage*, ferthe conveyance of peri'ou*,
which ihall be kept by or for any person, sos his
or her own use, or to let oy» t« hire, or for the
conveyance of passengers, t'.ie several dutie* and
rate 6 following, to wit :
For and upon every Coach, Ij dots.
upon every cl-ariot, 12 dols.
upon every Poll Chariot, 11 doU.
upon every Pod Chaise, ia dols.
upon every Phaeton, with at without top,
9 dols.
upon every Coachee, 9 dols.
upon other Carriages, having pannelwork
> above, with blinds, glasses or curtains,
9 dols. t
upon fsur wheeled Carriages, having fra
med polls and tops with Heel springs, 6
dols.
upon four wheeled Carriages, with wood-
iron springs or jacks, 3 dols.
upon Curricles with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chaises with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols.
upon oth r two wheel top catriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carriages, with Keel or
iron fprintja, 3 dols.
For and upon all other two wheel carriages, 2 dols.
upon every four wheeled carriage, having
framed pods and'.ops, atld retting up
on wooden spars, 1 dols.
The Collectors of Revenue for the firft S«r
vey of the Diftriit of Pennsylvania, will attend
daily, until the day of September next, lor
the purpose of receiving the duties en Carriages, at
Gerniantown ; at the house of Daniel St. Clair,Efq.
in the County of Montgomery; and ar the
of James Chapman, Esq. in theCsunty of Buc*;
of which all perform j -.liclicd of such Carriages are
desired to take notiot.
Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dis
tilled spirituous liquors, that licences will be grant- '
ed to them ; ona licence for carrying 011 the bufi- 1
ness of retailing of Wines, in a less quantity, or '
in less quantities than thirty gallons—and one li- ]
cence for carrying on the business of retailing Spi
rituous liquors in less quantities than ao gallons, at
the fame time and at the fame places, by the offic
ers legally authorised to grant such licences. 1
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
InfpevUor of the Revenue of thefirlifut
vcy of the DillriiS of Pciinfylvatlla.
Office of IcfpciStios at "> dr 1
Gerniantow, Ilth Sept. I' 97* i
j .Clocks and Watches,
j Of every description, opening for Sale, by
. EPHRAIM CLARK,
1 At his New Ship. Corner of
. MARKET end FRONT STREETS.
» ALSO
An i xtcnfive and general aflortment of
-Tools, Files, and Mate-rials.
Clock Movements and Clock Dials, eight day
and thirty hours cast brass, fexged work and Pin
ions, Bells and Hauds, Cat Gut, screw and draw
l'lltes, Turkey Stones, Pumice, Era.ry and Rot
ten Stone, Springs and GlalTes, Chains. Keys, Seals
I &c &c. Spring and ftartdine Clocks.
OA. a 7. eotf
ROSS is SIMS ON,
HAVE TOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, CofTas, and
a quantity of Bengal COT I'ON
Bengal SUGAR, ia Lag* and box.#
Jamaica, "j
St. Vincents, ( RUM.
and Bengal J v
- j
Samuel 6c Miers Sillier,
ARE NOW OPEWLNG,
At their Warchoufe, No. a;, Dock Street, afrefh
aflortmeiit of Woolen and other goods, rultable to
the season, received by the lute arrival* from-Eng
land.
Tbcv have ctfo fer Sale.
Lilhon
Teireriffe ( T •
Sherry, and ( In P , P t '' hhcli - quarter c.flts-
Port Wines, 3
Aborted queen's ware in crate*, Ac.
loth mo* 13d. diw3taw^w.
Insurance Company ef the State 6f
Pennsylvania.
TRE Office is again opened at the corner *f
Walnut and Second streets, where applications are
received as uAsal. co3t Od 18.
TO BE LET—At a tmderate Rent,
The principal part of a HOUSE,
WITHIN a short dillanoe of the Coffee-houfe,
which has been occupied far the last four months,
confiding of a good dining room and parlour, two
bed rooms and a drefling room, two garret*, kitch
en, wood vault and cellar, all in excellent order,
fit for the immediate reception of a small family.
None need apply butthofe who are refpe&able and
regular. Inquire at the office of this Gazette.
Q«. *4 dtf
Wants a Place, as a WET NORSE,
A YOUNG Woman, who can be well recom
mended.—Enquire of the Printer.
Oflober 21. I W
Boston Manufactory.
THE citizens of the Übited States are hereby
informed* that the manufacture of Window
®!afs is a»w commenced at the Glass House in Bos
ton.
It is needless to fay any thing of the excellent
(Quality of the Boston Glass, as it isfo well linown
throughout the United States to be in every refpe&
greatly superior to any ever imported from Europe.
It will be cut to any size commonly used ; and
may be constantly had by applying to Charles F.
Kupfer, at the Glass House.
Orders from the distant States to be to
Mr. Samuel Gore, Court-street, Boston.
Boston, Sept 30, 1797 O4 —*aw6w
Mejfrs. 'Titnoiby and IWbfon, Charlejlon ; Mejfrs.
Hodge anti &oytdn % iV. C. IVlcJfrs. IVillett
and 0* Corvivr, Notfilk ; iVfr. Eltif Price, Alexandria ;
Mtffvs. TurlJt a*d 3roiv#, Baltimore ; Mr. Hop tins.
Nciy-1 ork ; and Mejfrt. Hudson £2* Goodwin, Hart
ford; Mr. Seyotour % Savannah ; are requejlei to insert
iue fbove once a week 6 n>eeLs. 'Tie accounts to ie for
wctded t&tljt Editor '.
At a Meeting of the Board of
Properly, Juntr 6, 17971
Present John Hall, See'ry.
Frincis Johnfton, K. G. > oflandaflice
Dan. Brodhead, S. G.j
Nicho'ai KettlAgtr,
V'erfUs >
Samuel Cunuingham.j
Tn this cafe the proof of service of notice be
ing infufficient, Itisordered that notice be gir
en in one of the Philadelphia and Vork newspa
pers weekly, for at least eitrht week, to the
beirs ov alfegnees of Samuel Cunningham de
coaled, to attteiid the board on tliefirll Monday
in November next, to fhevi- caule a patent
ftiould net ifliie to Nicholas Hettinger for the
land in question.
( A true Copv.)
John hall,
Secretary of the Land Office.
Aug. <j. *iawß.w.
At the federal Blast Furnaee,
In Carver'—for flitting, Platting, and Rolling
Mills.
SEYMOUR's Patent Rollers.
THEIR superiority conjifls in being free from
holes arid honey-combed f laces, <which ere ccm
monli found in rollers cajl in sand, or clay
moulds. Theft patent rollers are cajl In iron
moulds, pr'rvtottjly heated, and mill be found to
be more dciife, solid and durable than any rollers
heretofore used. Another important ad-vantage
they; have over others, is, that the necks require
no turning, but are immedaitely fit for use, and
from their accuracy, run <with less friHion, and
j require lejs water to make them perform their
\ work. 7bey may be had by application to the
Patentee in Plymouth, of Gen. Nathaniel Good
win, orof \MeJ[rs. Thatcher and Hay ward
Uofion, Aug. 31. Sept. 19. §6t.
This Day is Publifeed,
BY Xfeff. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the
other Bookfellcrs,
Price One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
, Elegant 'y printed on Wove paper, and Hot
prejfed,
By John Thompson,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of the several States with each othef, and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of eaeh Confutation, and
clafling together their molt impsrtant provisions,
under the several heads of administration ; with
Notes and Observations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Caroline,
L L. p. and member of the Congress of the
United States.
Dedicated to tho People of the UnitedStatcs.
N. B. A few Co)ii :s printed o» an inferior pa
p?r, at 3-4tlis cf a dollar,.
Ftbruaiif t m*f
- . FOR SALE,
" SUBSCRIBERS, No. »T,
The Cargo of the Ship G«toi
John Green, coteh'wider, from BctlJ* ,
C.i-fiffhi <f
Baftas, of various qualities h pnc^.
Coffaes Piicjum Cloths
Sanahs (Buzz y do.
Hunihums Oharcouja Dorea
Blue Cloth Tan'jibs
Ciikitz and Calic»es iVl'jinvj is '
Mamoody. Checks
Meharagonge* Paua Hhkfs.
Ginghams Mulartl do.
Guzzecas Bandanaoss
«urrahs Siflerfoy
Pinigfcoes Choppa Romals
Salgatchys Sooty do.
Gillie Romals Per Cans of various colours
Mock Puhcats
200 tons SUGAR
90,000 lb. PEPPER.
Witlings & Francis.
0" In the course of a few days, the PIECE
GOODS, compering the cargo 0 f tht Clip Ganges,
will bs exposed for l'alc at that large commodious
.''tore, the northwest corner of Market and Fourth
ttrects, where a bale of every species of Goods will
It open. d 0&. 31.
L A N D I N G,
From on board thaftiip Cleopatra, Samuel Newell,
commander, from London,
60 tons of the best clean Russia
HEMP
60 rafts ol bottled BH.OWN STOUT.
For Sale by the luWcribem, No. ji, Peun-flrtet-
VKWings isf Francis.
* d
J aft arrived,
From Port-au-Prince, and for Sale bjr the
bers, No. 21, Penn-ilreet,
612 hogfheadi,"")
,\l IS iPrime Coffee
646 bags j
Hillings Ss 5 Francis.
oa. it. * $
Mordecai Lewis,
HAS FOR SALE,
At his Store, Wo. of, Great Dock-street,
250 bales of Bengal Good*
Containing Baftas
Coffas
Gurrahs
, Moragugungees
Tooktry
, Check and Btripis
Bandand Handkerchiefc
Mamoody
Calicoes
II boxes Iriflt Linens
I do. Diapers
7 do. Umbrellas
ao canisters Java Sugar
78 bags black Pepper
li 6 do. East India Ginger
100 calks roll BrimSone
70 pipes Madeira Wine
J7 caflcs Gin
' A quantity ot Iheathing Copper and Nails.
October 30. sawjw '
Wharton and Lewis,
hafe for sale,
At their £torc and Inlurance Office for {hipping.
No. lit, South Front-street,
Jamaica Rum, 4 th proof, ? entitled to
Alicanf Brandy, ift & id proof J drawback.
; Madeira Wine, and
A few hogiheads ot Juniper Berries.
Qftobcr ji. , ot<
POYNTELITs
Paper Hangings Manufactory
No. 70, Chefniut-ftreet,
IVhere b: bat for Sate,
AVERY exteolive (lock, of every colour, and
of the mod approved patterns, suitable for
every part of a house, with great variety of bor
ders to fult.
—ALSO—
A hand fume afiortment of tbf moll fafluona6lc
Silver Grounds London and Paris Papers, and
very bell plain Green and plain Blue,
With Pannel Papers and a rich variety of Borders.
November r. eo6t
TENEKIFFE WINE.
LANDING at Walnut-street wharf, TENE
PIFFK WiNE, of excellent quality, in pipes and
half pipes, for sale by JAMES YARD.
°"- Ic - eoßt
City Commijfioners Office,
Auguil 29, 1797.
IN pursuance of an Ordinance of the Seled and
Common Councils, pasTed the 2zd day of May lafl.
Proposals i« Writing will be received hy the City
Commiflioncrs for one month from the ift of Sep
tember next, for letting to rent on leases for one
year to commence the firft day of January next, th*
following public property of the city—
'file wharf and landing on Vine Street,
Alfoon Saflafras,
Mulberry,
And Hisrji Streets,
Chefnut and Walnut Streets, Draw bridge, witS
th« Scale and Fifti Houses, Spruce, Pine and Cedar
Streets.
The eellar under the City-Hill. j
The Tavern at the middle ferry on Schuylkill,
with the lots contiguous thereto, (except to much
thereof as (hall be occupied by any buildings ere<S«
ed for the use of the Colleilor of the Tolls, or be
necessary for the toll-gates.)
Ang. 3 3tawlm.
Imported in the latest arrivals fron*
Amflerdam and Hamburg, and foH'ale by
B. b' J. Bohlen,
A large ajfurtment of fine French Cambrics,
Platillas Kiiffia and Dutch l'ailcloth
B r ittannias Writing, post, and prim*
Nouanes ing paper
Brown Holland Dutch calf skins
Checks and firipej • Prime madder
Ticklenburgt Shell'd Barley
Oznaburgs Looking gla<fe«
WhiteCieetixigs Hollow glass war*
Diaper Slates
Brown rolls Coffee mills
Umbrellas Brass kettles
Hair ribbons ScytJies and ilrsw kniv«*
Black and whitelaces Tovs affortcd in boxe»
Best Holland Gin in pipes
London particular Midslr* Wine
Ju'y J4- Ki&iiitf
[VoL'ji.'if xnHHPI w r^
United. States, 1
Pcv.njybvanin Dijlrict, yV'
TN purfuajjce tor. a writ,to me dire-fled £rom the
honoriMc Richard S"£TW»» Kfiq. Jurk'C of fc»\e
Uiftridt Court of the United States in and for the.
VcHnfy 1 vnia'Dilt, will he exposed to PUBLIC
SALE, at: the Cuftom-houfc, in th' city of Phi
ladelphia, on Friday, the 17th in 11. at 12 o'clock j Foi
at noon, j
2 hampers of Earthen Ware, 1 "'
1 box of" InOigo I
i Tjox of Merchandize /
I half barrel Ho. |
io bags of Coffee
I barrel t»f SaltPetre I
a V to
1 Jccg £cf Linens v IO
1 triink y Wf
1 barrel ei Sugar .. ,
I bag of Pepper, and *
Part of 3 of Sugar th
The Mme having been libelled agninft, nrofecuted tV(
and condemned a-; forfeited, in the fnid ( putt. | g
WILLIAM NICHOLS, bl
Marflal.
Marshal's Office, 7 4 „ te
id November, 179" S ( * t '' ' {r
United States, 1 *■
Pennsylvania Dijlricl, j m
IN wirfuanee of a writ to mc direclcii from the
honorable Rich*rd Pt rp.rs, IWq. JuJge of tha 1
DiOriA Court of the United State*, in and for t u c L
Pennsylvania Diftri&, will be exposed to PUBLIC tl
SALE, at the Cullom house in the city of Phila- at
delrhia, oh Friday, the 17A ir.ft. at l» o'clock, •
at noon, ,
354 Silver Watches J,
33 gold Watches ai
? >0 Watch Keys
The fame having been libelled yrofeeuted
and condemned forfeited, in thefrd Court. P
WILLIAM NICHOLS, p
Marjhal. 1
Marshal's Office, 7 P
ad November, 179;. ? dtS tl
To be Sold at Public Auction, J 1
Ob Saturday evening, Nov 4. *97, at o'clock, c '
at the Merchants' Coffec-houfe, ' J
' dols. ets. | q
1 Note drawn bv James Grccijeuf /(
in favour of and endorsed by Edward . t
Fox, dated 9th August, i;96,dueiith J ■
October last, I.3 £0
3 do. drawn by said James GrCeti- r
leaf in favor of and endorsed by Ed- a
ward Fox dated jth ueu'l, 1796,11 , B
4 mouths date, 1 payment doit, lit I g
13, 1681 14, and i63l 14, amount
together 8043 41
3 d» do. offame date, drawn and 1
endorsed Usafnrefaid, payable in eight (,
months, paymenu, do'.!. *693 75 each, c
amount together Bsß.l 2J
3 do. do. of fame date, drawn and .
endorl'ed as aforefai.l, payable in II
months' payments, dels. *693 75 each, 3
amount together 8,081 aj c
15505 9 1 '
1 dra f t drawn by Robert Morrison
John Nicholfcn,'dated l8:h May, 1796,
at 11 months i'ctSO 1
I do. drawn asaforefaid,attwo i
years jooo j
1 do. dfawu by Jrthn Nichoi
foti.onßobei t Morris, dated aßth
May, 1796, at 3 )«ri JOOO
1 do. drawn as aforefaiu,Bt 4
years jooo ]
—»o,ecb
The said drafts are secured by (hares ,
m the North America l.and Company
and endorsed by James Greenleaf
r Note dated Boston, 18th May,
179,5, drawn by Thtomas Daw«i, jun. j
in favor of Thomas Gicenkaf, paya- j
blc ifl January, 1798, endorsed by Da
niel Greenleaf, Henry Newman and
James Greenleaf IJJO
I do. dated Boflon, 18th Nov. 199JV
drawn by Panicl Greenleaf, in favour
of Thomas Dawes, jnn.payable ift Jan.
1798,endorfed By Thomas Greenleaf,
Henry Newman, and James GrcWeaf 65M
3 Notes, dated Boston, 17th Nov.
1795, drawn by Benjamin Hafkell, in
favour of James Greenleaf, payable ifl
January, 1799, endorsed by said James
Gfcenlcafand Nahom Fay.dols. JJOO
Ijoo —icoo % cso
3 do. dated Boston, 17th tsov. 1795,
drawn and endorsed as aforefaid, paya
ble ifl Jan. ißco, one payment, dols.
6100, JOOO, 4COO IJIOO
One bond, Zachaiiah Cox to James Greenleaf,
and afligned by him, dated the 11ft March, 179?,
in the sum of ten thoufaUd dollars, conditioned tor
the conveyance of 15 too acres of Land, near the
town of Fredcrica in Glyn county and state of
Georgia, the said bend full due.
John Connelly, auctioneer.
oa.aß. "
lo be Sold, by Public Vendue,'
On' Monday, the 13th day of November next,
at 11 o'clock inthe forenoon, at the late dwel
ling plantation of Alix and tR PoßTta, Esq.
deceased, in the Hundred and County of New-
Castle,
All the Stock of the said Farm,
Consisting of horfis fit for draught or saddle,
eolts, fat cattle, milch cows, calves, several
pairs of large and valuable oxen, iheep and
hogs (all the hornedeatllc and sheep, being of
a very large and fine breed) and also carts, har
rows', ploughs, and other farming utensils, to
gether with a variety of houfthold furniture.
The conditions of Sale will be made known,
at the time and place afprefaid.
Mary Porter, Admrx.
New Castle Hundred, State of ),
Delaware, OA. 10. 1797- )
£5" All pcrfous mdebted to the eflate of the
feid Alexander Porter, are requested to make
payment, and those <vho have demands against
the fame, to produce them duly authenticated,
for fettlcrrent.
0&. 30.
KJ- University of Pennsylvania,
Oilnberl-J, 1797.
THE different Schools of the University will be
opened on Monday, the «th of November ; of
which, all who arc cor.cc»ned, arc requested to
take notice.
By ,ricr of to: Facult*.
? Wm. ROGERS, Secretary.
Choice St. Croix Sugar and Rum
Coffee
Madeira and Tcneriffc Wine
For Sale by
James Tar J,
No. —, south Fotirth-Urect.
Oa. 6; d 3'v
Wanted, a Wet Kurie.
A Healthy Woman, with a gno I breift o
Milk, and fatijfa&oiy recommendations,
will-hear of an agreeable fnuatien, Ivy applying
at the off.ee or 1 his Gazette.
Nov. 2, 1797- d 5.
X?;e Gmttz. ' 5°
PHILADELPHIA, 'ti«
FRIDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 3. I anc
For the Gazette of the United States. I
Philadelphia, fid. 2 l/l, I ari
Dr. William Currie. I
(Concludedfrom Ycfcrdafi Gazette,J >1 re [
SIR, ' J W
You appear to derive J j m
to the ajfertions you so confidently make as/J t j,
to the importation of the infiilion in the I thi
wearing apparel and bedding of the Arethu- I
fa's crew ; by repeating another ajfertioi, I f r ,
that it was impofiiblefor the stench emitted I f r(
from the snow to cause the disease, as there I a ]
is bo instance of diseases arising from vegeta- 1 an
ble putrefaftion, becoming contagious.— j
Not being a medical mah, I will not pre- j t0
tend toaffert with equal confidence thecon- I 0 f
trary ; all that I can fay is, that some of j
those who have been your preceptors in medicine I ] a
entertain the very opinion you oppose—l mud Is a
refer the enquiring reader to Dr. Cleghorn, I t h
Dr. Clarke, and many other refpe&able au- I ; t
thorities in medicine, who I am informed I th
are frequently quoted ia support of the o- I ix
pinion, that fevers arising from animal effluvia I 5
and vegetable putrefaction, are equally conta- I f e
gious. In a point, about which the faculty I w
are divided, modefly ought certainly to have I c;
taught a young author, to use less harih ex- I m
preffionj than those you have applied te the I
phyfieians who are opposed to your opinion. I q,
Thus \o fay, " they betray the most un- 4,
pardonable remiffnefs in their rcfearches into I (1
the nature ind hiflory of diseases ; or wilfully I ci
Jhut their eyes against evidence that would ft
| enforce conviction in every mind not actuated by 1 „
' i some malignant motive ; that they are vnac- j tl
i quainted with medical hi/lory, and unqualified o
to discern the connection between cause and ef- I f (
feß" ; is a stile of language illy suited to I y
the chara<Sler ofc calm rcafoner ; vinwar- ti
ranted by* the common rules of politeness, f;
and the praftie'e of the HiGfiEST autho- tl
■ RtTiEs in medicine: for we fee by the g
extraft given from the works of the great p
Cullen, in one of your letters to m«'; he /,
fays, very modeflly, "It has new been ren- I
dcredprobable," &c. Your attempt to cram „
down your opinion, by thus fti'gmatifing eve- b
ry one who does not agree with you, de- g
feats your intention ; for notwithftabding e
your indelicate exprefllons, physicians and f
i others who think for themselves, will still t!
' retain their own sentiments. \
In my address ta -Dr. Mease, I did not 1 t
consider it of as much confeq»ience to deter-1 f
mine whether the stench from the snow Nav- i
igation proceeded from animal or vegetable i
putrefaftion on board, as to afcfirtaiu that it I t
was the unhappy cause of the malignant set
ver that appeared among those firft exposed t
to it ; yet I then believed and am now ful- I t
ly convinced that this stench proceeded from \j
vegetable putrefaftion alone, having seen a IJ
lift of the cargo confiding, besides other I '
merchandize, of a great variety of vegetable 1
substances, some of them said to be shipped ;
in bad order, and after being on board more I t
than four months in a very tight vessel, oc- I l
cafioncd an intolerable stench whilst this I c
cargo Whether or not our I
late calamity could have been prevented by ;
a timely removal of this veflel after the I /
stench was perceived, I will not determine ; I
but a proposal of this kind, would from your
own principles, have been treated by you, I ;
and perhaps by many others with coitempt, I <
and the authors of it stigmatized as being I I
unqualified to difeern the connexion be- <
tween cause and effeft, or as having wilfully 1
(hut their eyes against evidence that would I I
enforce conviftion in every mind not a&uat-1 I
ed by some malignant motive—or at least they I 1
r would have been charged with having ex-1 <
cited falfe alarms in order to terrify the in- I 1
ir habitants of this city. It may be proper 1
le for me here to remark that although I have I ;
' f mentioned this stench as the cause of the fe-1 i
ver, yet I do not consider this circumstance I
as in every instance neceflary to prove the I 1
exifteno*, thongh in the present cafe it may J
serve to e*tnce the uncommon degree of ac- I
tivity, of the noxious cause that produced
it ; for it is well known that malignant fe- I 1
vers have been generated by the effluvia from I
vegetable putrefaftion when little or per- I
haps no stench was perceived from them at all. I
1 In order to give weight to your opinion, I
e' or rathiir to be conjiflent with your assertion, I
al that the disease was imported by the ship I
id Arethitfa ; you publi(hed a lift of persons I
°f w ho were affefted therewith " from the 25th I
ir " July," and commence it with the " pilot of I
the, Arethufa. But had you been free from
n prejudice, and really aftuated by that "pow
erful deftre" to ascertain the origin of the dis
ease, which you fay you are poflefied of,
you would have included in the lift the I
names of those persons who were affefted by
he the fever, before the arrival of the Arethufa,
kc either from your own praftice, or that of
the physicians from whom you collcdted the
cd ' above mentioned lift. I am informed that
several physicians have declared, that they
had cases of the disease before the 25th Ju
a ly ; I hope they "will come to light, as they
will tend more than any other argument to
I be prove, that the disease did not spring from
of the " iufefted bedding and clothes on board
to the Arethufa." A candid investigator into
the history of the fever, will not be content
ed with the agreement in your account of
! the origin of the disease, and of the lirit
UTI p er f° n taken sick from on board the fufpedt
ed veflel, but will inquire into the records
of the health of the city before the period of
her arrival, and if he finds the fame disease
to have then prevailed ; hg will the
(hip and look nearer home-for the origin of
v the calamity.
If any stronger proof could be required
that the disease was Rot imported from the
0 Wsft-Indics, I would adduce the declaration
3n3 ; of Dr. Edv.-ard Stevens, late df St.
* r ' S Croix, and now one of the consulting phy
sicians of the port, who, having witnessed
this fever, in all its ftagea", degrees an J fpe- the
cies, in the city holpitul, lia3, it is find, dc- vail
clafed that it is materially elijirent from the Sn<
yHow fever of tit Weft-Indies : this informs- I b
tism was publiilied on the 18th September, inti
and has, I believe, never been contradidled- cle;
To do away the wtight of this important mi<
argument, it will be said that a different hoi
climate may/o alter and modify the disease, fur
as to present different appearances here, off
fi;om those exhibited in the Weft-Indies: but wa
this is a mere fubterfuge ; for it is this very exl
resemblance which the fever bore to the (In
Weft-India fever tbat was- said to prove the th«
importation of our epidemic. To reconcile ca
therefore the opposite opinions of some of stl
the Philadelphia physicians, and Dr. Stevens, res
it must be observed, that the former speak of
from the descriptions of bceks ; the latter an<
from personai, experience, derived from inj
a lengthy residence in the Weft-Indies, and sic
an extenlive' pradliee among the fever in ne;
queflion. It »nly requires common sense fig
to determine which authority is raoft worthy as
I of reliance. th
Thus then I have annslyzed aP. your a- th
| larming (lories, of infeßed bedding, infilled A
I fails, and infeSed clothes ; and I hart proved ca
I that they amount to nothing! Snppofing M
I it a fadl, what remains to be provtd, that fla
I the two men who died on the 4th June, on th
I bqard the Arethufa, on her passage from th
1 Kingston to Havanna, died of the yellow fa
I fever : No man who is unprejudiced, and va
I will attentively consider wh t I have stated, cc
I can suppose it eonfiftent with reason or the
I nttvne of things, that the above articles, after pi
I being in constant use, and no doubt fre- fr
J quently waflied, or certainly wet with rain, of
I an<T afred on the passage, on board a clean fv
I (hip arriving in ballast and open hatches, in
I could have retained the infedtion in such a ol
state of adlivity as to give the yellow fever, fr
j at the end of fifty days, to the pilot, or to d
the crew of a vessel whose decks they pnffed ei
I over on tlreir way a(hore, and that thefc p*T- 1
I fona (heuld not infedt any others n
I who were exposed to the contagion from at- tl
tending therfi ; at the fame time that these rt
sailors and their clothes, supposed to be ' d
thus highly chafged with infedliop, did not vs
give the fame disease they gave to some peo- tl
pie in the open tir, to others with whom they te
1 lodged. 4 n
■ I It is true, by dinning our ears at the mo- i<
I went of alarm, with the accounts of deaths on v
• board a fufpeHedpip, you did for'a (hort time n
■ I gain your point with many under the inflti- si
' I ence of strong prejudices; but they will now a
I fee how little danger existed from those n
I deaths, by reason of the diltanco of time at t
I which they occurred before the arrival of v
t 1 the vessel, a circumstance which you eare- f
-1 fully concealed, knowing well how greatly f
•I it would tend to diminish the confidence in d
■ your opinion of her having thus imported £
t I the fever. In fine, your attempt to trace
- I the fever to the fbip Arethufa, is unfupport- (
lled by a Jingle unequivocal faß ; but, on the <
- I contrary f your opinion is proved to be un- f
1 founded by the very fad brought forward in its f
\\fupport. Your own " be li if," your own 2
r " CERTAINTY," ERRONEOUS ASSERTIONS, f
-■ suppositions, and ambiguous facts, r
1 I are all you have to offer in its support-; and i
• I they will carry no further weight with them t
-1 than prejudice will efftft. With the can- t
s I did reafoner they will pass for nothing. 5
r I (hall now proceed to detail as coucifely 1
! as possible,' the fadls to prove the origin of )
e I the late epidemic, from the snow Naviga- 1
; tion, from Marseilles. j
r This vessel arrived perfectly healthy on or 1
, about the 24th July, after a passage of eighty t
, I days from land to land, and I was told more ]
r I than 100 days from Marseilles. Her eargo <
■ I confided of a vast variety of perishable arti- ;
y I cles of both vegetable and animal natures. 1
i I Some brandy and red wine were also on i
-1 board. I have authority to state, that the i
y I cargo was received on board, in very bad
-1 order, and during rainy weather. This au- 1
- I thority is from two mercantile men now in
r I this city, who were in Marseilles at the time,
e I and who mentioned the circumstance the
•-1 moment they were informed of the snow
el having been fufpefted of introducing the
e disease. The cargo had nearly been Jive
y I months in the hold when (he arrived in this
- I port. I have also authority to state, from
d I a gentleman to whom the captain made the
•- I declaration, that ke never had pumped hit
n I vessel during the whole passage ; to use his own
I expression he said " the pumps might as well
1. I have been below." The effect which this
1,1 would have in creating a heat in the hold,
1,1 and a putrefadlion of perilhable materials,
p I previously in a state favorable to that pro
is I cess, must be evident ; and so careful are
th I some matters of vessels, to prevent this tf
of\ feft of a tight (hip upon cargoes liable to
m j heat, that they frequently pour water in
u- I their pumps, and then pump it out again,
if-1 The snow began to discharge hsr cargo on
f, I or about the 27th July, when a very offen
:ie j five smell was frequently perceived to issue
>y from the hold. Several of the erew were
r a, soon after taken sick j one of thera was re
of moved by the health officer to the hospital,
he State-Kland, where he died. His disease
lat was not \.\\efcurvy as stated by the captain
ey of the snow ; for Dr. S". Duffield, confult
u- ing physician of the part, who attended
ey the Crew, informed me he laboured under
to an inflammatory fever, with a pain across
his breast aud (houlders; and it is probable
ird that the bleeding at the mouth, which after
ito wards came on (and which is a well-known
nt- symptom of the late epidemic) gave rife to
of the opinion of the man's disease being the
irft scurvy. Mr. Latimer's business in the fiour
dl- line frequently obliged him to be on the
rds wharf, within the sphere of the extent of
'of the offenfive smell from the fuow. His fer
afe vant man was seen on the wharf on the 29th
:he Jcly, though you fay he was taken sick on
of the 27th. °The disease quickly spread to
the whole neighbourhood ; and particularly
red affedled those persons in the range of (lores,
the counting houses and fail-lofts, opposite to
ion the Snow, covering a space of nearly 300
St. feet, from Starr and Pritchetts to Pjne
ay- street, in all of which there were more or
fed less sick. About 'the centre of this space
the Snow lay, and the east winds which pre- can
vailed at the time, set diredlly from the unli
Snow to the houses opposite. This fadl is, hav
I believe, unparallelled in the history of the efp<
introduftion of a fever in this country, and Sta
clearly proves the source of the late epi'de- and
mic. Mr. Tittermary, whose counting- acc
haufe was near the bow of the Snow, as- got
fured me, the exhalation from her was so inf<
off*nfiv« he could scarcely bear it ; and I and
was informed of it by many others: it even up
extended as far as the lower fide of Pine- die
street wharf. So sickly were the crew of per
the SnoV, that when (he was requsfted by poi
capt. Young, the harbour mailer, on the to
sth August, to remove, one of the officers the
replied, he could not, from the weak state obi
of the people, without some other afiift- the
ance. They were seen continually re fort- for
ing to the bow of the vessel ia a weak and for
sickly ftnte, and they hung a mat over or or
near the anchor (lock to hide the offenfive j vei
fight from public view. Mr. Lewis who, ! fri<
as mentioned above, was out of town when j th<
the Arethufa arrived, complained much of fnj
this stench, and was taken sick on the ill (la
August. Three men who discharged a thi
cargo from a (hallop, on the south fide of
Mr. Latimer's wharf, and two others in a air
flat at Pine-street, all within the extent of I go
the fhnell, were seized with the fever after I th<
they left the city, which it is said proved ch
fatal to all of them. Even after the remo- gr
val of the snow to Southwark, the people in
continued sickly for some time. w 'i
The captain of the snow, upon my firft ef
publication concerning the stench emitted in
from her, acknowledged the fadt of the so
offenfive smell, but said it proceeded from ft;
five or fix dead dogs which lay putrifying w
in the vicinity of the dock ; yet he and one nl
of his witnesses are at variance as to their m
situation : in fadl, no person can be pro- d'
duced who will assert that he saw them in o
either of those docks, and the fadls which w
1 have stated could be proved by a fnfficiciit 01
number of refpedlable witnesses : indeed, |r
that such -a nuisance (hcuild be fuffered to P
remain in this neighbourhood for several lr
days together, would be a reproach to those
who reside there or frequent it : this cause, 0
therefore, could not have produced the ex- c;
' tensive, permanent stench that was perceived : n
nor did it ppoceed from this bilgc-vvatei—an rt
. idea introduced into several of your letters, P
1 which I believe to be your own, as I hav« w
never heard it mentioned by any other per- "
- son. I have lately seen Mr. B. Afhmead, c
r and he confirms what he had mentioned to h
; niyfelf and others, refpedling the stench from h
t the snow Navigation. Mr. Benners, vvho «
f was employed as weigh-mafter of this vef- "
- fel's cargo, and who also complained of this 1
r stench, soon after took the prevailing difor- c
1 der, of which he died—a circumstance I 1'
1 did not mention before. r
6 In your letter to me you fay that " the a
- stench from the snow could not have pro- r
educed the fever; because the exhalation I
- from vegetable matters in a state of putre- '
s fad ion, is laid down by the great Cullen '
i as the cause of intermitting and remitting '
, fevers, and are never contagious." The opi-
, nion of Dr. Cullen, however refpedlable, ■>
I is not infallible ; and is opposed by the au- <
u thorities mentioned by Dr. Rulh, to prove <
- that vegetable as well as animal effluvia will «
produce contagious fevers. I may also 1
Y mention, that, notwithflanding the opinion <
f I have given above, it is possible there might 1
- have been a combination of both in the car- '
go of the snow Navigation. lamat a loss 1
r to conceive in what refpedls the essential <
y component parts of vegetable and animal '
■e putrefa&ion differ, that they (hould pro- <
o du#e different kinds of fevj;r.—Will the :
i- analysis of the two effluvia into their ulti- I
s. mate principles account for their different '
n effedis upon the human constitution ? I
e (hould be glad of an answer to this query. '
d I conceive that the point can only be de
-- termined by the " pajl experienee" of prac
ji tical physicians ; and this is diredlly in fa
;, vour of the idea (notwithflanding the opi
le nion of Dr. Cullen) that diseases from one
vf source of effluvia are equally contagious as from
le the other. To those who wish fadls in proof,
ve I must refer to the publication of Dr. Rulh
is on the fever of 1793 and 1794.
m As a proof that the heat and stench of
le the hold of a vessel will produce the yellow
it fever, I will mention the following cafe, al
rn ready given to the public. In the year
:11 1793, a E/ench Eaft>lndia (hip was brought
is into the island of Barbadoes by the Britifli
d, lette* of rasrque Pilgrim. The whole if
s, land and the crews of both (hips were heal
-- thy, until the hold of the Indiaman was o
re pened, when an intolerable stench arose, and
:f- vvas found to be occalioned by some bag 9of
to pepper, lying near the pump having rotted.-
in Everyone of the white men belongingto the
n. (hips crew were seized with the yellow fever
in which was very mortal; and it even affedled
n- some of the blacks. From the (hip it soon
ue spread thro' Bridgetown, with unusual ma
re lignity, and swept off several American's
■e- there it the time. This one proof is fuffi
il, cient to (hew that vegetable putrefaSinn is ca
tfe pable of producing a contagious difeaft : Not
lin withstanding your positive assertion to the
It- contrary, and the contemptuous manner in
ed which you speak of those who differ from
ler you in opinion.
sfs I (hall- now conclude by proposing such
ble means as will tend toguardourfea ports from
er- the introdudlion of future malignant fevers,
wn And firft, I would remark, that it is not
to merely the yellow fever from the Weft-In
:he dies that Ike are to fear. We now know that
>ur yellowness is by nomeans charadleriftic of the
the fever so called, and is merely an accidental
of symptom, occurring as often in the true
"er- plague, and in all other malignant fevers,
)th which may be as readily imported by infedt
on ed gOods from Europe, as fevers fiom the
to Weft-Indies. As vessels from Marseilles in
rly the summer, frequently have long passages
•es, from 80 to 100 days : as the cargoes bro't
to from thence and the neighbouring ports in
;oo the (heights, are very liable to be damaged
ne- from the causes that operated in the cafe of
: or the snow Navigation, and will consequently
ace emit a fimihr offenfive smell, and as thin "can-
cannot be difcevered by any health officer, '
unless by discharging the cargo, I would
have every veflel from these ports to unload,
especially in the fumnier, at the Hospital,
State Idand ; where store-houses, wharves
and piers (hould be built for the purpose of "
accommodating the fliips and storing the
goods. The articles damaged, or supposed
infe&ed, might then be opened and aired,
and the wine or other liquors on board Tent
up to the city. Vessels from the Weft In
dies, on board of vvln'cb any deaths had hap
pened, or having (hort paffoges from sickly
povts, to perform a quarantine proportioned
to the length of .time since the death, or of
the voyagp : an indijiriminate quarantine a«
observed by our (hipping, is certainly nei
ther just nor necelTary. During the per
formance of qnarantine by any (hip, a per*
son ought to be appointed to (lay on board,
or a guard boat (lationed nigh her, to pre
vent any communication by water with the
friends of those on board from the city, or
j the Jersey (liore This guard boat (hould
! supply them with provision, afld the officer
(lationed in her (hould be able to superintend
the fumigation of the itfre&ed veiTel.
As a preventive for the generation of foul
air, and the damages which perifliable car
! goes are liable to fufFer from heated air in
the holds of (hips, I am of opinion that ma
chines for the ventilation of veflels are of
great confequerice. Wind fails, tho' ufeful
in empty (hips, or those in ballad, crowded
with people, cannot a<s* at sea in storms,
especially when the hold is full, nor in port
in calm weather. Machines that would af
ford by the motion of the (hip at sea, a con
stant renewal of the air in the hold, or that
when in port, would require but little ma
nual labour to work them, would apply the
mod effectual means of preventing the intro
du&ion of malignant pellilential fevers into
our commeicial cities, whether those fevers
were of foreign produdtion, or of domeftie
origin from imported materials. lam riot
infeufible of the delicate filiation I am nqw
placed in, when the bare mention of my own
invention, may be considered as proceeding
solely from a regard to my own interest ; and
on the other hand my total filenee on this oe
cafioii might be ctmlidered as a desertion of
myown discovery made on the principle here
i recommended. Relying chiefly on the re
, ports of several mailers veflels who have
t witnessed the operation at sea of the machine.
which I have invented, ajid which had been
, conflrufted in their veflels, lam led to bc
i lieve that it will eventually pcoduce the fa
i lutary effe£U which I have mentioned above,
> especially in (hips of the usual size employed •
. in the Weft-India or European trads, yet
s I*ll (hips of about four hundred tons burthen,
_ or upwards, their motion at sea being mucli
[ less than in ftnaller (hips the operation of the
machine will be proportionably leflened ;'
e and lam told that in such (hips of which the
. number is fraall, owned in this port, it will
i be necessary that the number and size of the
. machines for ventilation (hould be proporti
n oned to that of the (hip wherein they are
r conftrufted ; and that this may be dope
. without much inconvenience, in the form
, which I now make ufeof; yet even in this
. cafe, it might be proper, especially in calm
e weather at fen, that ventilation (hould be
!1 effe&ed by a little manual )abour occafionaf
-3 ly applied to work one or more of those. raa
n chines, which might be accoraplilhed in less
t time and with one half the labour that is ne
•- ce(Tary in any other mode of vestilating the
" 8 hold of loaded (hips that I hare yet heard,
il of ; as a proof of this aflertion, several maf
il ters of fhip3 have informed me, that by or
i- dering hands to work thofc machines only
e about two hours in a day, they found that
i- flour, or other provisions might be preferv
it ed from all damage in the hold of a (hip for
I fevtral months in the Weft-Indies, and fsr
r. eral gentlemen in thi3 eity have also witnes
sed the effeft produced by this machine when
worked in this way, in expelling the foul
i- air from the cabin, (late rooms, and the
i- hold of the ship, and that too where the
it heat as well as the (tench was scarce tole
m rable, to those who had not been accustomed
f, to if : yet after all that I have said, if any
Hi better mode of obtaining this great deside
ratum ca» badevifed, let it be adopted; and
as notwithstanding in your firft letter to me,
w you attempted" to ridicule my discovery, ahd
1- ung;nerou(ly to insinuate, that I began to
il- write, merely topu(Fo(F myown invention,
it yet all I (hall fay in reply, is, that every in
(h vention calculatad to lessen human misery,
f- however it may excite the envy or ridicule
I- of fame, will afford pltafui eto every beiie
o- volent mind. When the plague, yellow fe
id ver or any other contagions oifeafe an-ives in
nf a veiTel, and the goods and sick perfensare
d.- landed below, I would have the bofpital well
iie guarded by perfon3 appointed for the ex
er press purpose to cut o(F the communication
;d from those imprudent persons, who might
>n wilh to visit their sick friends, or from the
a- attempts of thieves during the time the
ns goods were exposed to the air. The hofpi
fi- tal should be walled in, and gate keeper*
a- appointed to live in small houses at the gate#
>t- for the purpose of admitting proper persons
he and preventing or of giving timely notice of
in the intrusion of strangers.
in) While however care is taken to prevent
disorders from abroad, let us not forget that
ch danger attends us at home. Popular pre
im judicey!( which it rauft be granted is very nat
rs. Ural) has hitherto induced mod of us in A
ot merica to ascribe all our epidemics in sea
tn- port towns to importatation from the Weft
lat Indies ; while the fame natural' prejudice
:he leads the people there to deny strenuously
tal the charge of their occasional epidemics o
-ue rignating among them ; but to ascribe them
:rs, uniformly toJlaveJhips. But malignant df
£t- cases occur too frequently in our country,
the and at too great a dillance from sea ports to
in permit us to iirfpute them always to foreign
ges infection. They can originate in any place
o't and in any climate, provided the causes capable
in of producing them exifi. The phyficiaus of
red Baltimore and Norfolk have ascribed the
•of diseases which have lately affli&ed tho r e
itly places to the exhalations of the place ; and
an- as it t$ known that the yellow fever has ge-' tie-rally cnmnrtnced its. fatal attacks in the
vicinity of wharves, it is probable that in ad
dition to the caiife 1 ? already mentioned, a
predisposition to take this disease may be in
duced by breathing an atmosphere loaded i
with vegetable aid animal putrefaftion ex- (
haling from the hqlds of faveral vessels that <
fnay happen to unload near other.. If <
the principle of inflammability in the human '
constitution produced by this cause, Ihould
not be fufficient to give rife to a yellow fe- 1
ver, it might be kindled into a flame by the J
sparks from vegetable putrefaftion, the ar- j
tides of which might be landed on the <
wharve:, from the rubbish of their cargoes, t
or from the filth among their ballad. Hence i
these causes of disease may be removed, by i
firft expelling the foul air from the holds of
the (hips, or removing its ofFenfive contents I
as soon as discharged ; or obliging the cap- '
tain to throw them out below the city, or
upos Windmill Island : and if all our docks
were filled up, and the wharves extended to
low water mSrk, much exhalation would ,
be prevented, and the'health cf those nigh
them amended. ~
An opinion has gone forth, that if it be
established that the yellow fever can oriiri
natcamong ourselves, the reputation of the .
• country will be injured ; and with this p«p-'
ular idea you have concluded your last letter
to me ; but I liope our citizens will'bc con- '
vinced, that their true interest consists in ,
believing " that our public health
depends ourselves." To destroy j
this belief, " is to do an essential inju-i
ry to all populous cities" : for who ;
can be so blind as not to fee, that nndev this
imprefllon, the probable means of preventing I
a subsequent attatk of'a fffalignant fever, by
an attention to the removal of the domestic <
causes, are infinitely 'more within our con- 1
troul, than any that can be applied to pre- ;
vent its importation, if jt can only be intro- '
duced by ficl persons, or infeßed clothing, as 1
you have so often asserted. What city can 1
be secure, as long as it is in the power of any i
captain, or any fail or to smuggle in a sick i
person, or some old jacket of their defceaf
ed comrades, ieyind the pefftbility of detedion
by your/elf, or any health officer in the w{jrld.
Nothing fhortof obliging every vefTtl indif
crihiinately to unload at the fort, and sub
mitting every article and package :n the (hip
to infpe£tion, could jnake this discovery.
And if this were to take place, commerce
would be at an end—indeed were it poflible
to prove this fatal disease could enter at no
other avenues than those you have opened
for it, and those too, without the power of
human vigilance, I (hould join mod heartily in
the words of your last address to me, in de
ferring our devoted city, and feelc an asylum
in a climate where we might be fafe from
tire deplorable cffe&a of such an opinion.—
Yet (Till I hope that our situation is not so
hopelek as you have represented it, and that
there ate still means within our power, to pre
vent afeturn of the awful calamity.
BENJAMIN WYNKOOP.-
yst [ AT.9.
CALCUTTA, January 28.
The masquerade at the' Caltut-a theatre o*
WcdnfiTday lift was, as is usual with entertain
mitts of that nature is this country, but thinly
attended
Tho charai?er9 were very f»w, and in general
but indiffsrentVy fupportrfi; th« only exceptions
to the stupidity of theevfning, were u couple of
excellent MaUays, a Savoyard, and an old woman, j
/.atnaiin Shah made his triumphal entry into |
Lahore, thi> capital of the Siicks, on the firft day I
cf this month." We can rflert, nr. the authority
of lettera received yeficrdsy from Futtyhur that |
the report of Zemauu Sh.ih - s retreat. is wholly j
without foundation—on th«? contrary, Inwasprc- ;
parang for his towards Delhi, it which ca |
pi:al. he may be expected to arrive, (hould he ,
meetSvithno opp fition, abotft the end of thin j
month, or the beginning of February. |
Our letters a id, th t Shah's army torfifts of ;
at lead one hundred thoiifar.d fightir.gmen, and
that he is accompanied by a Frenchman, late am
bafiador from the convention ts Conflantinople
In the papers of news transmitted from the
weftwafd, an t flsttd the firlt of Rajib, is 'he
purport of a letter, said to have been received by
Zemaun Shah from Shah Allum.
After complimen s, exprefli»» of the gladness
he feels in the approach, through the divme in
terpv.fition, of rh«j faviar of tht defend
ant of Tinmr obfcrves, " that .Hind or Hindof
tan . has fallen a facrifice to tha degeneracy of her
A*(>ies: and that it behoves him. through whole
.means ihe fpUndor ot the (late is to bereilored,
tohafteir with diligincc to fucconr the brave."
F.xtrafl of a letter from Futtyghnr, dated the
Bth inllant.
u By the last accounts, Zemaun Shah had
pafled Rotas, a fining fort on the weft of the
Jelilum, about seventy cofsfrom the Attoi;k,and
about eighty cofs from the Lahore The cols
of that country is estimated at one mile and an
half, he was therefore about 120 miles from La
hore ; Lahore by diredl road is 250 miles from
Dehli or .57? miles.
•< Tfe Shah-iaftytsr conquered all the coun
try between Indus and tiie Jehlum, which com
prizes nearly a fourth «f the Sheick's country,
extending from the Ghaul leading to Calhe
mire, to the vicinity of the Moultap, and his
objeift apparently is, to fubgite the countries
Jytng between the Jehlum and the Chunaub, and
between this river and the Rawee, as far as
Lahore. Another seas n may secure to him the
Panjab ; but until he (hall have by viilories in
those parts secured to his troops an gninterrup
edpafiage, there cannot surely beanyferieus
alarm from hira "
February 11.
On Tueftay next will be launched a ftip of
thirteen tho'.-fand bag", from the yard of Messrs.
Foreman andß?cen, at Howrath.
Ext raft of a letter from Futtyghur, dated
Jan. 28.
11 We ate now encamped, about two cof3
from Futtyghur, in a westerly direftion,
where we wait the arrival of the Cawnpore
forces; which will be joined by the Nabob's
troops at Kanouge.
" Should necessity require it, which how
ever Ido not think will be the cafe. I pre
sume we (hould all make ? movement to
wards Delhi.
" The persian paper of yesterday, from
Delhi, which is now before me, mentions
.as follows:
« Zemaun Shah had formed his army in
to seven divisions, and endeavoured by dif
ferent roads to surprize the rear of the
Sticks, but being unfuccefsful, had again
united his forces.
" A mod desperate battle was fought at
Umrootfur: it commenced at eight o'cloqk
iti the morning, when the Shah opened his '
(huter renauls, or wall pieces mounted on
camels, upon the Seicks, ant} both parties
commenced a heavy fire with matchlocks,
which continued till two o'clock.
" About this time the Seicks, finding
they had made no impression 011 the en?my,
gave the figual for,a general charga; aiida
greable to their mode in close combat, flung ,
away their turbans, let loose tli<;ir hair, put
their beards in their mouths, daflied
into the midst of the Abdallah amy, sword
in hand.
" The Aklar fays, the two armies con
tinued thjis engaged for four hours, when
Zemaun's troops gave away, and were per
fued by the Seicks» to the very entrance of
Lahore.
" It is mentioned that 3J,000 men were
killed in this engagement —20,000 on the j
part of the Shah and 15,000 of the Seicks."
The Shah was said to have been in La
hore, fortifying the city, and was expe&ed
to leave it by the 25th of December, for
Delhi. It is supposed he in tended to gar
rison Lahore, and make it his principal de
pot.
Zematui Shah is the second son of the ce
lebrated Timur, on whose death his elder
brother, Hnmaion, succeeded to the throne
but was soon deposed and imprisoned by the
address of Zemaun, who immediately usur
ped the government,for which it mull be ac
knowledged his talents were better suited,
than those of his brother.
Humaion is still living, closely confined as
a (late prisoner, at some distance from Ca
bul. He is reported to have many adherents,
and these partizans have more than once
open.y manifefted a disposition to restore
him to the throne. It was a measure of
this kind which obliged Zemaun,on a former
expedition to the Panjab, precipitately to
return to Cabulfton, where his presence
speedily re-eftablifhcd his authority.
Count Gika, a Georgian, well known in
Calcutta, a few years ago, and nephew to
the famous Heraclius, prince of Georgia, is
said to be prime secretary, and adviser of
Zemaun Shah.
Ganjam, 28th Dec. '96.
Translation of a letter from Woly Buy,
Humza Buy, Badoo Saib Adamjee, and
Salay Mahomed Buyjee, ■Nacodas of the
fliip Dodelay.
7*o Jaffa rjec Samaljee, at Madras.
This is to inform you, that after we had
laden a full aargo on board the (hip Dode
lay, Confiding of timber, planks, and steel
lack, a«d also some articles of freight, we
failed from Rangoon on the 18th of No
vember for Calcutta, commanded by Bal
thazar Loureiro, with a pafTport from the
king, arid under Burmah colours, together
with the mates of the (hip ; the chief mate
named Hoofon Caun, and the second Ma
homed Sadack. The wind being favoura
ble we arrived fafe at the Braces, in order
to meet the pilot; on the 19th December
we saw three pilot schooners, which gave us
hopes of conveying us speedily into the riv
er ; a pilot from orie of the schooners came
on board immediately and took charge of
the (hip; and a few hours after, we disco
vered a (hip with Dani(h colours, which (hip
proving to be of the French made prize of
the three aforefaid pilot schooners and last
ly captured our (hip the Dodelay, and (hip
ped 011 board of us a fufficient number of
, men to secure her—Captain Balthazar Lou
: cjero, in consequence of which, took the
1 Burmah pafTport, and «very document to
; prove the vjffel and property of the fubjefts
j of the Burmah. and remained on.board the
; French (hip for a wh6le day.
But his arguments proving ineffeftive, We
and the mates went on board of the Freneh
(hip and argued the cafe in as strong terms
as p&lible, but the French replied, that
they pay no attention either to the Burmah
pass or colours, and that they will upon no
account deliver up the (hip—when we found
us thus situated, we requested to know of
the cemmander of the French (hip, named
Legeras, the name of his (hip, and to whom
(he belonged—to which he replied, that the
owner of the French (hip is called Monf.
Melartic, and the (hip is called Lentrinch,
mounting 22 guns—and thus having ended
the conversation, he told captain Lauricro,
that he mull go to Mauritius, and that all
the Moors would be sent on (horc; when a
long boat was immediately prepared, iu
which we were ordered to get, together
with the crew us a (loop from Pegu, belon
ging to a merchant there (which they lika
wife captured off the Negraes) in all confid
ing of 45 men, and we were sent on (hore
at Ganjam,at which place we arrived,after 6
days fail, about the 27th^inftant —and all
we have to do now is to proceed to Madras
in the best manner poflible—you will be
pleased in the mean time to inform of this
unfortunate event the Insurance Officers, in
cafe the (hip and cargo are insured—we caia
aot help expressing to you our private feel
ings on this occafton, for we were not even
permitted to take a fliift of linen, excepting
what we had on us.
(Signed) Woly Buy Humza Buy, 1 Nacoda,
Badoo Saib Adarnjee, 2 ditto,
Salay Mahomed Buyjee, 3 ditto,
MADRAS January 3.
On Sunday lajl arrived the American, ship
Paragon y capt. Deal, from Calcutta.
The Paragon will proceed on her voyage to
Europe, in the course of a few days : the
pajfengers from this preftdency, we underjland,
are—Mr. Gregory, Mr. John While, captain
Pogfun, of the cavalry, Mrs, , and Mrs.
Millar.
On Sunday evening arrived the Danijh ship
1 Anholt. capt. Voight, from Manilla, -which
' fhc left on the 24th of November, & Malacca,
on the 17th altimo.
The intellgence received by the Anholt is,
' that the Spaniards were tlfarming, and difban
"■ ding their lately raised troops, of every denomlr.a-
iiuti \thal C.T'j hojldefenliiaciit hztll. cn done
away, and that the. Englilh VJcre received as
•well as they pujfi'Jy can in, any place, where
the inhabitants are the tnifrably vtSinjs offu- '
perjlition, and the olj.'B slaves of a sanguinary,
and arts ul priejlhcod.
Earthquakes had lately much alar men'litpeo
ple at Manilla, during the month of November ' 1
thirteen fhocis were experience! in the conrfe of i
eighteen days ; hut vihich did no materia! da- '
mage, . 1
7he Spamflj naval force at Manilla onfifted
of three frigates, two of 36 and one of 32 guns, i
The whole were flrtpt and laid up. - ' <
The American, ship Ann, ol Btflon, capt. <
Sav age, has artived at' Tranqnelar,from <■
Calcutta. 1
About ten leagues from Amloync, captain
Fortefcue fell in utith, and fpohe the Bombay t
frigate, having the Ewar, Jane and Tar- t
mouth tranfportj under convoy. A few hours t
would convey them to the island, and it was J
imagined that the admiral, having received the
provi/ions andJlores with which tiey were f
laden, would immediately put to sea. The t
transports are to return ■ with full cargoes of '
the valuabh spices of Banda and Amboyna, and I
•with the Gloucejler transport—which vejfel e
was near I) laden at the time of the t Fly's depar- c
lure.
By this day's Mail. r
a
NEW-YORK, November 2. t
We have authority to announce that a- <
bout 60,0001. sterling has been awarded by s
the commissioners and courts in London, as <■
indemnifications for spoliations on the A- £
merican commerce ; which sum has been t
paid by government. The hufinefs is in
progress for a fatiafatiory adjuftmer.t of all 1
other American claims. Com. Adv. ■
By the Fabius, captain Defvernes, prriv
ed at this port late Uft evening, from Havre )
de Grace, we have received a regular file of 1
the Moniteur, but they are not later than '
accounts via London. Sailed from' Havre 1
August 28. Has several passengers on '
board. Argus.
We are assured that the AMERICAN
COMMISSIONERS hadnot arrived when I
the Fabius failed, but that orders were i(Til
ed for their polite reception whenever they 1
(hould land on the territory of the French
Republic. ibid.
Communication•
This day there is to be a meeting of the
trustees of Culumbia College. The objeft
of their meeting is to invite Dr. Benjamin
Rush to a profeffor(hip of the praftice of
physic in Columbia .College. A correspon
dent is happy in remarking, that there are
few obstacles to a choice which must result
in so many advantages to Columbia College.
He is a man born to be ufeful to society.
BOSTON, O&ober 27.
PROM GIBRALTAR.
On Wednesday evening afived in town from
Gioraltar, by tho wayof New-York, >n 45 d»y s >
capt. Brown, late of the brig Nancy of this port,
which veflel was condemned at Algeziras. The
condu<st of the French cruizfrs was at the acme of
ff villainy—property was taken on the mod fri
volous pretences. The Debonair of Boston, was
among the last American vessels which fell into
their hands. Some rumours were current that
the French hid forbid all diviuon of
prize property ; and in consequence of which fe
v.'i al fortune-hunting Americans had quitted the
privateering fcrviie, finding it no longer profita
ble. Two had (trolled down to Gibraltar, where,
being recognized, they were ariefted and confin
ed- One was a Mr. Pertival of Cape Cod, th« o
ther alf», we uniierftand, was a Cape Cod man.
Jervis remained in front of Cadn. It was laid he
had formally invited Mafferado out.
THEATRICAL.
We hear that a new eorm'dy, called''/ G'orgia
Spec, or Land in the Moon" will be p«rforßi'd on
Monday evening neit, for tli« benefit of Mr.
Paine and Miss Brett.
It is said to be the-produflion of R. Tyler, Esq.
of Vermont, and to pofftfs much national man
ner, and well-pointed humor. The charaifters
are general (ketches, n»t persona! description. The
dialogue it penned in the best llile of O'Keefc ;
its raillery does not descend to invediivc; its wit
aspires to originality. The (l ige (hould be " tic
brief chronicle of the timet ," and it is of no less im
portance to the fnccefs of the American Thsatre,
to have authors of our own, than to have the
fable laid in our own country.
* Mill ■II ll»l»l |jll» 111 II ">f twi «11l ■I IT »■■ Ll—W
GAZETTE MAR INE LIST
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED. »AYS.
Brig ATarv, Yorie, Gibraltar 5^
Experiment, Heft, Arquin 26
Schr, Trial, Ropet, Salem 11
Sloop Eagle, Earl, Rhode IJla-d 6
Patience, Willie, New-York 6
Betsey, Ha'-l, Norfolk 7
CLEARED.
Brig Amiable Creole, Stoiy, RottcrdAwm
Scli. Proteus, Tbompfom, Leghorn
Sloop Polly, Giffort Newport
fra/Min, Fijk, New-Tort.
A SwJiJbJbip from Lisbon, the f homer Andrew,
from Fort-av-Prince, amd two other febonert, unlnown,
are below.
Brif Elizjleth, Fullerton, taien on her pajage frem
St. Kitt's ft> thi 1 port, it re-taken by a ttritijh cutter and
sent into th; Msle.
New-Tori November 2.
ARRIVED. DAYS
Ship Neptune, Boos, Hamburgh 115
C. N. Mole 41
Phoebus, , Havrc-de-Grace 65
Hannah, , Martinique
Brig Mary Ann, Park, Gibraltar 65
Sch'r Bison, Webb, Gaudaloupe 20
New Flying Fi(h, Shoemaker, do. do.
Jupiter, Bybank, Philadelphia 4
Ship Agnes,' Blair, has arrived at King
; Hon, from Shelburn,
, The brig Vigilant, Cable, from this port
1 to Jamaica, is taken and carried into Gua
. daloupe.
Sch'r Amphitrite, from Charleston, is
i arrived at New Haven.
7 Yesterday arrived at this port the fchoo
, ner Bison, capt. Silas S. Webb from Gua
daloupe, which place (he left on the 12th
, Oftober.
On the 29th Oftober, being in lat. 2s,
30, long. 64, fell iu with the armed brig
Pandwin:, c:pi. Ccrifcain, who luid previ- ,
cufly eaptured the fliip-Sally, of New-Lon
don, capt. Buzzle, boursd. to Je.emie. 21
days out, and the brig Vigilant of New- i
York, capt. Cables, 11 days out, bound to 1
Marth Brae, both of which were sent into ' .
Ilifpaoiola. Cspt, Garifcain put the crew j t
of these two velfefs on board the Bi'on, be- j 1
ing thirty in tiumber, with a small allowance ;
of provisions and water, and then give them
liberty to proceed on their voyage. /
In 6 hours frotn this capt. Webb was so I.
fortunate as to fall in with the brig Virginia, c
of and from Alexandria, capt. Card, 16 c
c'ays out all well, who generously i'upplied c
capt. Webb with a bbl. of beef, a bbl. of ■
bread, a caik of wster. and some wood.
Captain Ganifeain informed capt. Webb,
that his orders were to take all velfels Wound t
to and from Britilh ports, and very politely a
told him, that had he come from a Biitilh f
port, he would not fee America very soon. 1
Capt. Webb, on his outward bound pas- a
sage to Surrinam, Sept. 15, was boarded by
the Tamer and' Babet Britilh frigates, in
lat. 5, 50, long. 54, 15, who ordered the
hatches opened fore and aft ; hoilted the p
cargo upon deck to the ground tier ; broke 1
open several trunks belonging to the cargo ; d
took the captain, mate, and a paffengcr on 2
board the Tamer, with two trunks of goods I
of the pa(Tenger ; and after examining the d
mate, sent him with 8 men and two officers, b
armed as a prize crew 011 board the Bison, e
taking away two of her men—Same even- li
ing at 6 P. M. sent the captain, paflengcr
and men back, detaining a valuable trunk' f
of goods belonging to the passenger, endorf- J
ed the Bison's regi&er and ordered the cap- -
tain away from Surrinam,asablockaded port, f
These two frigates, a cutter, and the priva- 1
tcers Swinger brig, and Experiment lugger, 1
form this blockade. 1
Capt. Webb remonstrated with captain £
Martin of the Tamer, against his endorsing s
bis register, as probably it would be the c
means of his condemnation, (hould he be 1
taken by the French; but he infilled upon 1
doing it, as he made it a pra&ice. ;
Capt. Webb left at Guadeloupe the brig 1
Fox, Cornel, and brig , capt. Hufting, ,
both of New-York. j
Captain Parks, of the brig Mary Ann, 65 >
days from Gibraltar, has fav6red us with 1
the following lift of 1
Vessels at Malaga, 2sth July, 1797. 1
Ship America, John Simpfon, maltcr, of
Boston.
Ship Bithia, Wm. W. Jones, of George
town. •
Ship Plato, A. Lawrence, of New-York,
under adjudication—French consul.
Brig Betsey, Gideon Snow, of Boston, un
der adjudication—French consul.
Brig Rover, A. Smith, of Baltimore, under
adjudication 11 months and not yet clear
ed—French consul.
Schoaner Speedwell, John R. Story, of |
Glocefter, cleared, after a detention of
4 months, by the Spanish tribunal.
Schooner Samuel, of Boston, cleared by the
Freneh consul, it' being the firft Ameri- 1
can veflel cleared by him—the captain
having the roll d'equipage upon his (hip
ping articles.
The schooner Samuel failed for Naples.
The above vefifels dare not fail from the
aforefaid port, because the French consul;
has two privateers watching their motions
in order to capture and condertfn thera.
Vessels at Alieant.
Ship Sarah, Hopkins of Boston.
John and Martha, Knap, of Newbury- '
port. :
Brig Sifters, William Coggfliells, of Boston.
Ship Maria, C. Kenneyd, of Charleston.
Brig Venus, Taulon, of New-York.
The above veflels are also blocked in port,
being wat«h«d by the French privateers,
alias, Pirates.
American vessels condemned by the French con
sul at Malaga.
.Ship Three Brothers, aapt. Lendal j
Smith, frosn Portland, with fi(h and staves, I
&c.
Brig Diligent, capt. Brum, from Phila
delphia, with rice and staves.
Brig Two Brothers, capt. Gilbert How
land, from Norfolk, with staves. v
Ship Polly, capt. Bradfhaw, from Salem,
with fi(h, pepper, butter, &c.
Schr. Orrinton, capt. Ambrose Atkins,
from Edenton, with staves.
Sloop Peggy, capi, Henry Leader, from
Cadiz, ballast.
American vessels condemned at Carthagena.
Ship Governor Mifflin, capt. Dove, from
Civitavecchia to Philadelphia, with an as
sorted cargo.
Brig Telemachus, capt. S. Plummer,
frdm Alieant, with brandy, &c.
Brig Eliza, capt. William Mogford,
from Alieant, do.
Schr. Abigail, capt. James Atwocd,
from Alieant, do.
American vessels condemned al Ceuta, by the
Spani/h tribunal.
Schr. Martin, capt. Nathaniel Williams,
from Gloueefter, with fi(h, butter, b«ef
and staves.
Schr. Minerva, capt. David Bray.
Ship Levant, capt. David Fairchild.
Schr. Speedwell, capt, I. R. Story.
Vejfels condemned at Alieant, by the French
consul.
Brig Friendship, capt. John Proud-
Brig , capt. Samuel Brown, staves.
Brig Atlantic, , New York.
Brig Hawk, Jonathan Hull, do.
The above is not a perfect lift, as many !
more were a finally condemned at different
ports in Spain, whose names and plaees of
: destination -could not be accurately afcer
. tained. But one fad is certain, few vessels
are cleared, and if liberated, are sure t6
s be robbed by the Spaniards ov French pri
vateers.
- ExtraS of a letter from an American captain
1 dated at Arquin, I 2ih Sept, to his owner
in this city.
, On the 3 d of September at Sea, Portoßito
r bearing S. S. IV. dijlnr.t 20 leagues, If.ll
in with a Trench pi rjateer brig of 12 £in,
The captain ordered out my boat, and vie i i
come on board with my pepers, with,, -which I
immediately complied< Hefrjl put thi people
! i/i irons, and then lashed them t» the foremajli
I received a number of threats, but he found
\ tin mto no purpose. He ordered his officers
J out of the cabin, presented a brace rfp't/lols, and
placed, them before me—l believe he felt himself
guilty, for he did not do it pu'lh a goodface. He
tool: the brig's yawl, two bis. of boric, two do.
hernng, three kegs of butter,nine cheeses,hams*
duels, four barrels of potatoes, four do. of
onions, a number of small art:. I s not mentioned,
and gave me an order on a gentleman in sac*
quemel as follows :
" Mr. Dark and Cloudy IVeathcr,
" Please to pay Pardon Almy, mailer of
the American brig Elefta, taken at sea by
a privateer without fear, for the articles be
fore mentioned, and fend your order to Cape
Francois to a nsan of the fame description,
and you will get your money."
No Signature•
Boston, Odtober 27.
Arrived, fchr. Franklin, Waters, Liver*
pool out 60 days. Sept. 23, lat. 43, 30,
Ipng. 43, spoke Clip Columbus, Cook, 25
days from Litbon for New-York. Sept. ,
29, lat. 43, long. 46, spoke ship Betsey,
Barker, 10 days fram Bolton for London
derry. Aug. 29, lat. 51, long. 15, was
boarded from a French privateer and treat
ed very politely—the day afttr by two Eng
lish frigates, and treated well.
Arrived snow Fanny, Kilham, 77 days
from St. Peterfourg, and 62 from Elfineur.
Sept. 20, lat. 47, long. 25, spoke brig
from Virginia for Liverpool. Oft. 1, lat.
43, long. 35, Ipoke fchr. Isabella, Crow,
19 days from Button for Havre. Oft. 6,
lat. 42, long. 41, fell in with the wreck of
a (hip wh-,h appeared to be Aramean built,
about 200 tons, fine va'rnifhed fides, ftaun
chion round her waiil, similar to titofe of
her quarter,afmallfiguri woman head, painted
whic«, with a black turban round her head,
a small shield with a large star in it, on her
left arm. Her mast ?nd bo.vfprit gone. —
A large part of the wreck of her spars hang
ing to leeward of her. Her Itetn black,
with yellow carved work, and seven cabin
windows. She was jult fwimmirig level
with the furface of the sea. Frelh breezes
blowing, could not go on board.
For Amsterdam,
WILMINGTON,
Captain Hilraan ;
A Staunch, faft hiling, Phi
l \_ UJelphia built veifel, of
\ live oak and cedar, is now in complete order, alid
will fail with all possible speed, haying great part of
her cargo already engaged. For freight 0.- pas
sage (having excellent accommodatieis) apply to
the captain on board, or to
Summer Ihf Brown.
Who have on hand,
Gonaives Cotton, Sugar, Mo
-1 lafles, and a few thousand weight of excellent Cor •
i dag-, including fcveral Cables of ? : iS' 11 inches.
1 november 3. tuth&stf
For Liverpool,
The Ship
jCLOT H I E R,
NathanielD. Gardner,mafler,
| fail about, the ; th
| 3£S \ y inft. For freight or paf
-1 lage apply to the Captain, at Vanuxefn's wharf,
or to JAM ES Oj DD F.N,
! hot. dtf No 41, N I^m:>t-flrect.
Landing,
From on board the ship Edward, at Walnut
flrcet Wharf,
London particular' Madeira Wine,
of a foperior quality, For Sale by the fubferiber.
Robert Andrews.
November y eotf
i FOR SALE, "
' By BENJAMIN CLARK,
I No. jj, the corner of Chefnut and Front streets,
A large -quantity of Clocks and
Watche*. Also, a general aficrtmer.t of Tools,
Eiles and Materials, cfl?fiftjng of Clock Move
ments, eight day and thirty hour hrafs pinicna
and farge work; Bells, clock aad watch Dials,
Springs, Hands, GialTes, Puniae Stone, Emery,
Rotren Sto k ;e, Car Gat; bench, (land and tail
Vices; Turns, Plier*, Chains Seals, Key 9, &c.
* # * Apprentices Wanted.
November 3. f&tutf
To~ le Sold,
A Valuable Plantation,
OF upwards o* One Hundred Acre* of Land,
well watered, in a healthy situation, about
fevepi miles from this City ; the buildings may be
made to accommodate a large f imily, at a mode*
rate expense, ird pofieifion had in a few weeks.
Part »f the plirchafe-money being paid, a reason
able credit will be allowed for the remainder.
Enquire of the Printer,
rovemfcer 3 mwftf
In the Press,
And speedily will be publiftied by William
Young, No. 52, Second, the corner of
Chefnut Street,
A VIEW
Of the Science of Life ;
On the principles eflablifhed in th# elements
of Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BRO WN, M. D.
With ag attempt to correfl some important er
rors of that work, and cases in illustration, cljief
ly felcifted from the records of their pra&ice,
the General K< fpital at Calcutta, a
Br William Tatss & Chas. Maclean.
To which is fu'joined, a Treatise on the a#!on
' of Mercury upon living bodies, and its appiirar
t tion for the cure of .diftafes of indiredt debility.'
f AndadifTertatior. onthc fcorces of Epidemicand
Pcfliientia! diseases; in which isattempted toprove
by a numerous induilion of fails, that they ue~
S ver arifc from cnnHgion, but are always produ
-5 ced by certain fiates, or certain vicissitudes of
- the atmofpliere, by Charles Maclban, of
Calcutta.
r:a. 31. .si?t
n ihe IVieciical Lectures
r In the University of Pennsylvania, are pr ft
poned until the last Monday in Nover. ber
0 next.
it O Sober 14. aaw^w.,To be Sold at Public Vendue,
('lf net Iff ore disposed of at private fah)
ON Kiiiav, the fit It of Dee'-mbcr next, at fix
o'clock in »he evruipg, the Merchants' Cof
fee Mouse, in Philadelphia, Forty Thousand Nine
Hundred and' Thirty Nine acres of LAND,
r.ovv oi lite in the County of Wifhmglon, and Com-
Trionwcalth of Pennfvlvania, and oij the w?ters of
F eOi and Wheeliiag Crcck.3 and Ten Mile P>un,' —
Thrfe Lunds arc fertile and well timbered, and were
py r.ttcc I catly in 1737, except 3700 acres or ihcrea
bctrs, ivjiich were patented in 1792. One fourth
of the purchase money to be paid at the time of falc,
i or rhe refwiuc a credit of one, two and three months,
wi ; l heaven, on interest and good fciuiity.
' n^<>K c .r 6, 3^wfS
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not before disposed of at private sale)
ON Friday, the lirit day of December, at fix
o'clock ih the evening, at the Merchants' Coffee
House. in Philadelphia, Twenty Six Thousand Se-
Hundred r.r-.d Eighty acres of LAND, in the
State of Ncw-Votk, be:ween the northern bounds
of Pcnnfylvarra and the Su'quehanna, now, or talc, !
in the townships of Ilamden and V/arren, and coun- |
ty of One fourth of the p.rckiafe
money is to pc paid at the time of sale ; for the le
liduc a credit of one, two, and three months will be
giyen, on inhered and good security.
G&o&c 6. 3awtS |
Peale's Museum, j
T HIS valnaV.le repoCtory of the works of Na
ture, so well calculated to delight the mind
and enlarge the understanding, is opened daily, as
iniial. It ilands in an airy and healthy situation,
and free from the epidemic that at prefer.t aflliiU
the city ; it may, therefore, be frequented with
the great:ft fafety.
As on Ainufcment, the study of Nature is the
Cioft rational and plealing : as a Science, the mod
lab lime and ir.ftrudlive. It elevatesthe mind and ;
ftxpztidSthe hcjrt. They
" JVl'M'i .\~alurj't itioril tan charm, toit.'j Sod bint/elf
" He'd cKiverJc."
Many interifling additions have lately Seen J
made to this Mbfeuin : and the feathered tribe,
co:. tamißg a variety of the meft rare and beautiful
fubjeiSs, is now very advantageously arranged.
Waxen Figures,of Men large as life (some of them
calls from uature) are here drefled in,their proper
habit., and ylaced in attitude, charafieriotic of their
rtfpeolive nations. H?re may be foea the North-
Ancrican Savage, and the Savage of South-Ameri- |
ca—a laboring Cliiuefe, and the Chincle Gentlea ;
man—tie fdoty African, a.id the Katr.tfchadale—
with some Natives of the Sou'h Sea '-Hands. Ihe
inuuenf'. variety and interesting dlverfity which
this Museum oners to the view, may be fecn bnt
cannot be dcfcribed with full effaA.
■yjT Price only I-4th of a doilaT.
Kcy>. law
hi O T I C E .
ALL person- indebted to the eltate of Jo in
Striker, late of Thwectim Townlhip,
Uuck's County, are requelled to pay off their
rtfpeiHve debtg ; and those having any de
mands ag«inft said ellate, are deiired to bring in
their accounts, to
JOSEPH CHJMBEP.LAIN, & ) Execu-
MALLET PREPALT, 5 tors.
Sept. 18. 52 a W4W
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 319, High-Street.
G E O.'R G £ DAVIS,
BEING busied for some tiijae past in prepara
tions for removing into his profent house, hn.s
been under thenpetffityof pollponinguntil this (<ey
informing the peßtlemen of the Ear generally tbro'
the Uaited States, tlitt his spring importation of
law books is now arranged and ready for lale, on
termsriiat "he trulU will entitle him to the like pra
frcence he has expeiienced fcr several years pad.
Catalogues, •ombining the moll varied collcc
tion ever imported this country, are printed
and will be delivered on applieation.
June 27. 6\>-
City Commijftoners* Office,
June w, 1797.
" TN pursuance of an ordinance from the feltA
A and common eouncils, pafled the iad day of
May last, appointing the city c«niniilTioner«,
*nd prescribing their duties, feaiongth,
, 'notice is given,
That the city is divided into Ih e dilirifls,
each to be undtr the fuperintendance of one of
whoistobe individually
relpqnlible for the cleaiilin'efs ef the fame, and
are as follow.
Driftrid No. ,1. From the south fide of Ce
dar-street, to the north fide of Bpruce-ftreet, un
ithe superintendence of Nathan Boys,
i. From the north fide of Spruce-street, Jo
the north fide of Walnut-street, under the fuper
intcndence of Hugh Rob«rts.
3. From the north fide of Wjlnut to the south
fide of R gh-rtreet, under the superintendence of
Joftyph Claypoole.
4. From the north fide of High-street, to the
north fidft of Mulberry itreet, under the fuper
fntendenceef William Moulder.
5. From the north fide of MulKerrv-ftreet to
the/iortK fide of Vine-street, under the luper
intendence of Nicholas Hicks.
Thecleaningof High-flreet to be in common.
Js* A flateil meeting of the city comrainion
era is held at the Old Court House, in High
ftreet, every Tuesday evening at 5 o'clock.
July 14. eolm
Stands for Draymen, &c.
In purfuantst of an Ordinance from tbeSeleli and
Common Councils,bearing date the lid day of
April, 1797, providing for the appointment of
City Commffioners, be. Seel, the 15th.
r following places are fixed upon by the
X said City Comitaiffioneri for Stands for
Draymen and their Horses.
In Vine-flreet, eallward of Front-ftre«, on
both fides.
Safiafras, High, Chefnut and Walnut-fttreets,
eaflward of Front-street, on the no/th fide only-
Mulberry-street, south fide from Front to
Third-street.
Front-llrcat, cast fide from Vine'ftreet to
Elfrith's alley.
Front-ltreet, from ojipofite to Black Horse al
ley to Hamilton's fibres, east fide.
Waler-ftreet, weft CtTe from the north end of
Stamper's or Moorr's stores to Pine-Ilreet.
Penn-ftreet from Pine to Ce-Jar-ftreet, weft
fide.
Dravibridge, north fide, east of Front-street.
Spruce, Pine and South streets, «aft of Front
street, south I'de.
Dock-ft'reet, between Walnut-street and the
flag ftor.e crofiings, east fide, opposite George
Orkltv's.
Second-street, between Saflifras and Vine
ftrert?, weft fide.
Fifth street, east fide from Chefnut to Mul
lic.rv streets.
SaiTafras-ftreet, from Third to Fourth-street,
east fide. . .
No dray or horse to stand within ten feet of
* V 'lr JxDS FOR HACKNEY COACHES. -
Pine-ftricti north Ilcli from Fourth to Fifth ,
Fifth-ftreet, between Chefnut and Walnut ,
greeks, weft. £
Branch-street, north fide, between Third and f
Fourthi ftteets<
July M. mw&fxm 1
LAW BOOKS,
Late/l London and Dublin Editions.
H. fef p. RICE, Bookfellcrs,
No. 16, South Second, and No. 50, Market street,
HAVE jult received by the Ute. arrivals from j
London and Dublin, then ipri&g importa
tion, confiflingof a variety of ths latttii and molt
approved I aw Books, which, added to those alrea
dy on hand, forms the mo 11 ex ten live collev*lion ev
er offered for fa'c in this country. They therefore
beg leave to notice, thai trom the nature of their
conne&icnsin Dublin, they are enablcu to felllrifh
editions (as they have hitherto done) at (he very
I owe ft prices. The following are among the latest
publications.
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, 2
Peaked at Niii Prius ; Ridpewsy's Reports
in the time ef Lord Hardwicka ; l-'loycr'a Probers
Pra&ice ia the Ecctefiaftical Courts ; Barton's
Trdtife on a Suit in Equity ; Tidd's Pra&ice of
the Ccurt of King's Bench in Peifonal Anions, z
p vrts complete ; Wurd's Law of Nations ; Cruise
011 Ules ; modern Reports, n vols. London edi-
I tion.
j H. and P. Rice expeSt ta receive by the firft ar
; rivsd from the 6th vol. complete of
Durnford and East's Reports, the id part of Gil
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
j new publications.
I June 26.
i The History of Pennlylvania,
By ROBERT PROUD,
|3 now in the press, and will be publilhed,
* with ill convenient expedition, by Zicha
ri.ih Poulson, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue
to be received, ami at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed proyvfals, until the
work is ready for the fubfeviberj.
July 18. inwtf
; ~ thjsday was bublisheb,
And for sale by THOMAS D0BS01& at the
. Stone House, No. 41, south Second street,
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED,
j Confifling ofa variety of Miscellaneous Pieces for
theinftrudlion and aaiufement of YOUNO PER
SONS— SixVolumeshandfomely printedaiid bound
Bp in two volumes, price Two Dollars.
The viriuty and excellence of theft pieces are
fiicli, that the book need* only to be known to be
j uniYrrtilly efleemed one of the m'oft valuable pub
; licatiotis th t can-be put into the hands of young
perform.
" Delightful talk to rear the tender thought,
To teach the young idea how tu Ihoot,
f"o pour tk« frefti inflruAion o'er the mind,
To breathe th' enlivening spirit.and to fix
The generous purpose in the glowing bread."
Thomsok.
Augufl 24. mwf4w
THIS D AY IS PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS DOHSON, at the Stone Uoufo,
No. 41, foath Second street.
Letters and Conversations,
Between several Young Ladies, ou improving and i»-
terefting fubje&s.
T1 inflated from the Dutch of Madame de Cjntiut
with alterations and improvements,
Printed HlJuu paper, *mJvtatty 6miid,
Price one JJiur.
AMIDST the tide of modern Romances, pamt-ing
tales of sxtraordinary dittrefs, or of defperaw »r
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul,'' and
whidv it would bo for the honor of young ladies to
he ignorant of, this little boak com.a forward to fo
licjt notisey where, in a variety of i>cideitt«, not ex
ceeding the bounds of real lift, the proper, beeaufs
elegant and mitirul dignity and importance of th« Female
tharaStr is exhibited in an impelling point of view,
ind prafpnta examples of real and attainable excel
lent?.
Th* publifter was so much pleaftdvrith the peri
fal, that be was persuaded h« Ihould do a plealug
fcrviccto thi community by funding it ifrocirca
lation. Auguß 24 —BIW4W
Act laying Duties on Stamped Vellu m
Parchment and Paper.
A FEW copies of the above a& may be had a j
he Office of the Gazette of the United States, N«.
119, Chcfnut-ilreek,J u^y
The Partnership,
UNDER the firm of FRSEA4AN 13* Company,
is diflolvcd by mutual confcßt. All person?
having any demands again ft tV« said House ate de
sired to render the fame to T. B. Freeman ; and
those indebted to the House are deiired to make pay
ment to him—By whom business will in future be
carried on,at his Store, No. 39, South Front-flreet.
Augufi 7 eod4w
Richard and "James Potter
HAVE removed their Counting House to No.
45, South Fifth-ft?cet.
dnguft %• w&f6t*
Lancaster, Harrijburgh QarJi/le,
Shppenjburg and Sudbury
STAGES.
THE public are requeftcd to nke notice, that
the partnership which his far some lime fub
fiilcd between Mathias Slough of I.ancafler, and
William 6eer, is now dissolved : but, not as M.
Slough infinaattst# the public without juil cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fuh
jedt fronj-M. Slough to W. Gecr, dated the iyt]x
December lait, a recital of which is not now deem
ed necftflary. Any gentleman who wiihes to be
more circumflantially informed of the merits of
this business, by applying to W. Geer may have
theperafal ®f M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whethsr or not W.
Seer is not perfectly juftifiabie in attaching him
felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage aenveyance front Philadelphia toShippenf
urg, or any other place.
Now from the liberal and generous fgpport the
public wcro pleased ta confer on the firft effort in
this business, William Geer, in conjun&ion with
MelTrs. Rcily, Weed and V/itmer, i 3 determined
to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention and dispatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can possibly exert.
The above company, who are ampty provided
with carriages, horse*, and every appurtenance to
render the passage fafe and commodious, inform
those wno wish to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George Weed's, th?, sign of the White Horse,
Marktt Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to l.ancafter, Harrifburg,
Garlifle and Shippenfburg. The fare as hitherto
eftablilhcd.
Fcr the further accommodation ol the public,
a Stage will start every Wednesday from the house
of Samuel Elder, ia Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thurlday,
and return from thcoee and arrive at Harrifourg
eveiy Saturday, so that palTengers destined fqr
l.ancafter or Philadelphia, may proceed on Mon
days.
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaflcr, Jan. 17, 1797.
N. B This Lire of Stages llarta from the
house of William Ferrnc, in Lancaftcr, on every
Tuefcliiy and Saturday morning at 6 o'aloik, pro
ceeding to the weftwaril; and from the house of
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg every Wednes
day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in ShippenftuTg, and returns
from thence on every Thurlday: performing the,
IVme routine daily as ia its totir from Philadel
phia. mwf '
Thomas I-lermam Le.uffer,
North fifth ft reel, corner of North alley, No. 34,
HAS FOR SALS,
EXCELLENT red fcpwFdeaux Wine incaf.sani
boxes, fix yews old
White Gravo* Wine in calks
lirloV nburgn
Ruflia Sail Cluths
Ravens Duck
Bag Linen
Hefllans
diaper aud Table Cloth
Empty l- ag4
Canamoo German Cloth
J n affcrtmentof black coloured Rfthons
Fine German Lafces
About Ruffia clean Kemp
Clover Seed
Italian Soap;, in small boxes, for family afe
Window Olais /*ug 29 —3»w
Excellent Bourdeaux Brandy
Ditto ditt i Claret in cases
Just received, and for Sale hy
Rundlc & Leech.
4ug.it. lawtf
Will be Landed,
I'rem onboard the ship A6live, Capt. Blair,from
Hamburgh,
20 hales white Rufiia clean Hemp
2 calks Clover Seed
For Sale by
Thomas Herman Leuffer,
Northfifth street, No. 34.
Tune z/>. §,
Young Hyson "l ea.
40 chcfts of a superior quality—Alio,
100 do. of Hy{<m,
Imported in the IVtotJropSims, and for sale by
the fubferiber, corner of Second and Pine
flreet.
C. Haifcht.
June it. eotf
Imported in the jhip Pigou,
And for laic by John fclnrton, No. 116, South
Front-ftreef,
Hyson
Hyson Skin (.
■v it r >TEAS
Young rlyion f
Imperial J
April 20. eotf
For sale or to be let on ground
rent,
A natuable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-cUt corner of Wal
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State-
Mouse square. This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there ace at
present two small two story brick houses, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Also, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient (lores, wharf, kc. fltuate oa
Water-street, between Mulberry and Saflafras
streets* containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east
ward nine:y-fiv% feet, then widening to the
.south tlrrteen feet fix inches. Thd'e houses
ave the convenience of a public alley adjoining
on the north fide, and are a very desirable situa
tion for a merchant, flour ethers who
may have occasion for storage of goods. This
property will be fold on very reasonable torms
forcafh. For further information apply to the
pi inter.
Jtily 31. m&wtf
TO BE SOLD,
Arul pojfejfton given immediately,
A I.ARGE two story brick Hoofe,handfomely
iituatedin Princeton, Thftearc four roonrs
and a large entry on each floor, and five rooms in
the garret, a range of back buildings 51 feet in
length, and a piazza of 57 feet. There is a pump
in tbe yard, an excellent kitchen garden, at the
farther cud of which are a carriage house and two
(tables, one of which is new, 44 feet long, with
(tails in the two (tables for 17 hones. The heal
thiness and pleasantness oi its fituatioa, and the
number of genteel and agreeable families in and
near the toirn, render it a desirable rctrecat for a
gentleman from the city. Thecommodioufnefs of
the lioufe, its central poGtion, and the largenafs of
she (tables,make it every way fuitablefcratavern, for
which it has always been confiderd as a capital
(land. Inquire on the premises, of
ISAAC SNOWDEN.
Princeton, Ang. 15, 59 —diwiawtf
City of Washington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificent d'.vell'mg-iioufe ao,ooodoriars,
& calh 30>000, are 50,00.
1 ditto 15,000 & cafe 15,060 40,0010
1 dhto 15,000 St oafh I.?, 000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & caJl) 10,000 ao,ouo
1 ditto 5,000 A cash 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,600
1 cast prize of rp,ooo
t do. s,ooooach,are i « 10,000
le do. 1,000 - - 10,00 c
ao do. 500 • - 10,000
od do. 109 - - to,ooo
aoo do. 50 - ' - 10,000
400 do. 15 - - 10,000
1,000 do. 10 - 30,000
15,00® do. 10 - 158,000
Prizes.
33,361 Blanks.
50,000 Ticket*, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. To favour those who may take a quan
tity of Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollar* will le
the l,ijt drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but oki :
And approvednotca, fecn»ing payment in either
monsy or prizes, iu ten days alter drawing, will
be received for any number not left than 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant fr ecimer. of
thepri/atc buildings to be ereiled in the City of
Walhingrort—Two beautiful defigas sre already
(clewed for the entire fronts 011 two of the public
squares; from theft drawings it ispropofcd toere<3
twocentreand r ourcor«er baildingß as fconaspof
ftble after this lottery is fold, aad to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner deicribed in the fchcme for the Hotel!
Lottery. A nett deduction of five per cer.t. will
be made to defray the necedary expenses of prim
ing, &c. and the fnrplus will be made a part of
-the fund intended for the National Univeriity, to
he creeled within the city of Waffiingtou,.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the
arizes, are held by the President and two Dire&-
l.ors of the Bank of Columbia, and arc Valued at
more than half the amount of the lottery.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
Tiekeumay be had at the. Bank ci C«Um-
U'a ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Feter
Oilman, Bolton ; of John Hapk'f.s, Richmond ;
Rr.J of Richard Wills, Cooper'* Ferry.
HlWf
This DayPublifhed,
Aad to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, tornerof
Second and Ghefnut streets,
Price T,-?ytbs of a Dotlor,
Obfervaticns on certain Documents
Contained iw No. V and VI of
" The Hi story of the United States for
the year i 796,"
fn which the charge of speculation ag-ainfl
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Sfxrztaßy ef the Tneasury, is FULLY
REFUTED.
WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.
Tlfis publication prcfents a coiKiie statement
of the base means pra&ifeJLby the Jacobiusof the
United States ro asperse the characlers of fbofe
.pwrfons who arc as hostile to their difor-
fchemes. It also contains the cor*
refpondence between Mr. Hamilton and MefTrs.
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venab!e, on the fub
jevft ot the documents alorefaid, and a fcrics of let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to IVlr.Ka
miltor., proving beyond the poinbiliry of a doubt,
that the connexion between him and Reynolds,
was the result of a daring eonfpiraay on the part
bf the latter and his associates to extort money. ,
itj* A discount of one third from the retail price
will be made in favor ct wholcfaie purchasers, for
cash. Orders to be addrelTed to Mr Young.
A uplift 2.5.
No. 188.
Dijlrill of Pennsylvania, to wit :
. . L")K if REMEMBERED, that on the
JD twenty sixth day of July, in the twen
ty second year of the independencecf the United
States of America, John Fenno, of the said dif
trict,hath deposited in this office the title ofabook,
the right whereof he claims as proprietor, in the
words following, to wit
" Observations on certain documents contained
" in No. V. aud VI. of " The Hiflory of the Unit
"ed States for the year »Ty6,"in which the charge
" of speculation, againll Alexander Hamilton, late
" Secretary of the Treasury, is fully refuted—
" Written by himfclf "
In conformity to the a>ft erf the Cor jrefs cf the
Ucited States, entituied, •'An adt for theentour
agement of learning, by securing the copies of
maps, charts ami books to the authors am? propri
etors of such copies, during'he times therein men
tioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk qf the DijlriSl of Pennfyhania.
July 27. W4W
An elegant House in Arch Street.
TO be let and entered on immediately a large
and elegant house at the Corner of Arch and
Ninth Street. There are two drawing rooms
and one dining room—the largest is 31 feet by
x6 —and two are so conn««Sled by folding doors
as to make but one. Also. five bed rooms, he
fides 5 in the garret, well (liiifhed for fervanu.
There are stables and a ooach house, with evry
convenience for a family. Enquire at No. 19,
in North Seventh street, or at No. 318, Arch
Street;
Aug. tc. lawjw.
William Blackburn,
LOTTERr and BROKER'S OFFICE
No. 64 south Second-fireet.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 11, which
commenced drawing the 39th May, FOR
SALE. The price of tiAetswill rife in propor
tion as the drawing advances, particularly on ac
count of the five firft drawn tickets, prizes of
four thoufaad dollar, each, on the last day ot
drawing.
Check Books kept for examination and register
ing, in the Canal, No. 3, City of Washington, No.
3, and Paterfon Lotteries.
Also, tickets forlalein the Schuylkill bridge and
Perkiomen Uridge lotteries, which will begin
drawing in the course «f the ftimmer.
The business of a Broker in all kind 9 of Slock,
Bills, Notes, Lands, &c- 4te. tranfafied with the
utmost attention.
June 3 tu&f
Erfkine's Vievr of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No. 40 South Second street,
[Pfic* 31 CentsT
A View of the Causes and Consequen
ces of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Euskinz.
May J 5 $
STATE TRIALS.
Sold b W. Yosng, Bookseller, No. 5», South S«-
cond-ftrect,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
CONtaining the impeachment, trial, and requit
al of Francis Hopkinfon, Judge of tlfe Court of
admiralty, and John Nicholfon, Comptroller Gen
eral—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, 3
dollars.
W. Young has for sale, a general affortmentof
Books. Also, Stationary, retail and by the puck
ege, well allotted,and entitled to the drawback if
aipwted. July 7 —*
For Sale,
That well inotvn place, eallexl VAiiDteßifT's
F s R R Y,
ON Nefiiajniny eresk, 18 miles from Phila
ladelphra, on the New York post road,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
premifesarea large two story (tone house occu
pied as a tvern, and a good one ftorv ftotie kit
chen, a large frame liable with a gtw.d threfnii>p
floor, ant) lome out buildings—also a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
this place is a rfioft elegant fit\i«tion fora gentle
man's feat, commanding a view of the Nefham
iry to itsjunilion wiih the Delawa*e, and thence
acroi"6 to the Jersey shore. ft has the privilege
of one half the tulireceived from the bridge.
For terms apply to the SiiWcriber,
MOKDECAI LEWIS.
Yiv 14. jtawtf.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GKOOMBRIDGE with'mnch pleaf
uic and refpedt, returns her sincere ac
knowledgemc-Dr for the liberal encouragement
Ihe has received during four years reirdenee in
Phil2*lel|?hia; and artures he'r friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
frhool, (he has made a superior arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of iier
scholars. —Every branch of uftf'-il and polite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groombridge ' and mafttrs excelling in their
| refpeilive proft*(Turns.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June ?th, 1797- fimfrf
The situation is perfectly healthy. ; and made
more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the house.
J 11ft Published,
And to be had of MefTrs. Dobfoi:, Camptel\Kice,
Cary, and the other pricipal liookfcller. in tV
city,price ona dollar, twtnty-fivc cents,in boards.
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJaW?! SMITH BARTON, M. d.
June io; *U
f
School Books and Stationary.
-- •
w. yoljng,
No. {j, Second-Creet, crrnr.r of Chcfnut-ftrcct,
HAS now r a-'y for sale, a very large afiort
metit of En*lifb, French, Z>atin attd Grtrk
SCHOOL BOOKS. Also, l'uch elementary bosks
op. Science, as arc generally read in the academics
and college!, throughout ths United States.
l-ATELV PUBLISHED,
Sheridan's Dictionary, the sixth edition, in One
larpevwl. S vo price 3 dols.'
Ditto, large 11 r.lO price ; dol. 75 cts.
Ditto, common, price 1 dol. 50 cts.
All forts of drawing, packing, printing, and
writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards. Pasteboards,
(heathinit and blotting Papers ; printed Blanks;
blank Books, Wax, Wafers, and other articles, of
the bell (juality, used in the counting hcafe, or
public office.
1 fCatalogues of a mifcellanftous colle'flion of
BOOKS, with theprice of each affixed, to be had
by inquiring as above. 06t. 24. —Jaw&w.
Jujl Publi/hed, and notu Selling,
By BENJAMIN DAVIES,
At his Book-St.ore, Mo 68, Higb-Streetj
The AMERICAN REPOSITORY
AND
ANNUAL RE GIST Sprite UNITED S TATF.&
FOR THE YEAR 1 758 *•
Containing complete and correal lifts of the Execu
' tive, I egiilative and judiciary
DEPARTMENTS of GOVERNMENT,
And a variety of ufeful tables, necessary to be
known in every State of the Union.
Ewbellijhcd with two handforrte Ejigravings,
One of which is depi&ive of a melancholy scene
that occurred during the American war.
Oft. 18. .
The Philadelphia , Atfion, anil 1 ucherton
MAIL STAGE.
THli proprietors beg leave to infirm the public, that
they have ejiablijhed a Stags between Philadel^h'M,
Atfion, Batflo, Hampton y speedwell, and Martha Fur
natty Wading River Jlitting mill, and the town of Tuck
erton, in iSTrtv-Jerfey, to go one* a week, and areprovi
ded u itb good horses, a comfortable carriage, and a care
ful driver, for the conveyance of the mail, passengers, and
goods. The Stage will Jlart entry Tburfdtiy, at I©
o* c.'ock, A. JM. from J},dr. Daniel Cooper s Ferry, and
lodge that night at Joel Bodine's, at JLcngacoming ; and
on on Friday, at 6 o clock y P. M. arrive at Cileb E
vans's, inlcepcr, in Tucierton, diflani from the city 54
miles, (from the Atlantic 6, and front the Faji Groufwg
Plains 7 miles) inhere are good accommodations for tra
veller Sj and ivhere are commodious and fafe pajfage boats
pravie'ed to convey passengers to Capt. William War
ringJtns hcttfe, on Tucker s JJland, adjoinining the At
lantic, where are good accommodations, and a c onv/nunt
place to bathe ; the sportsman who wijhcs to resale him [elf
with fowling and Jfoing, may at this place it highly gra
tified, there being at almtfl every season of the year fowl
andfijh in abundance.—The Stage on its return, Jiarts
front the aforefaid C, Evans's in Tucierton, every Tues
day, at 6 o'clock, A. As. brexkfnfls at John Bodir.es, at
Wading River Bridge, lodge that night at f.ongacoming t
and at I o'clock, P. Ad. on Wcdnefday, arrive at the
cforefaid Cooper s Ferry. It is prefumtd thai no route of
an equal dijlance will It Irfs expo five, or furnijh theirtt
iteller with a greater variety of amusement, as he wilt
not only have a pleasant fail to the atlantic from TuCker
ton, but have the curitftty of feeing on ths road thither a
number of capital furnaces and forges, and one fining
mill, in complete order, and at work ; gentlemen, too, tvhs
are owners, cr factors, of any of the aforefaid iron works,
are solicited to encourage and support this flage (by ivh'ch
they can be so well accommodated) the continuance of which
will much depend on their aid. The rates of pajfengers
and baggage are as follows : For a passenger from the
afcrefaid Daniel Cooper s Ferry to Tucierton, including
14 lb. of baggage, Two Dollars ; for way pajfengers
per mile. Four Cents—lso lb, of baggage equal to a ptif -
fencer. Postage of letters, netefpapers, \&t. will be
agreeably to law.
■iV. B. The mail eroffesfrom the Old Ferry.
THOMAS WARDLR & Co.
Tueherton, Sept. 28. 0&. 5. —Zaivtf
The Norfolk Mail ST AGE?
r "| Stage starts from the GEORGE Tavern,
L at the corner of Second and Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, cvtry Tuesday, Thursday, and Satur
day, at 3 o'clock, ia the norning ; arrives at Do
ver the fiiftday, at Snowhill the second day, at
Northampton Court House phe third day, apd on
the morning as the fourth day the palTengers find
a fafe and comfortable packet to convey them to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton feiry 9
every Tud*d.\y, Thurflay aiuf Saturday, and the
Stajc starts from this ferry for Pkiladelphia, every
Mon Jay, Wcdntlday and Fridr.y ; puts up at Snow
Hill thefirft sight, at Dover the *d night, and ar
rives in Philadelphia in tha evening of the third
day.
The distance on this route, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is So miles less than on any stage route
between tliofe places.
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road,
which is raoft excellent indeed. The proprietors
willingly engagfe to return the whole fi'oe to Sny
pafTer.ger, who, after having performed this routeV
will fay that lit ever tra veiled in a stage for
distance, so good a road in America,
A 11. dmi.ectf.
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, awd cheaper then an-y other in
ihe Citv —
OF. VARIOUS SIZES,
From Bbv fc to 19 by 14,
By the finfcle Box or Quanti .y, may be 'had at the
(lore of the Subscriber*, cornier oi' Aieh and Ftonfl
ftrcet,
James C. Isf Samuel J > r . Fijhcr.
Philadelphia, J::ne 9, 1707. 1 .vrr.wf:f
Lately PubSiihed,
Tn cjne vol. 3 vo. (price one d< Mar •£> boards) f Id
bvAVIJjLIAM YOUNG, corner of Secondand
CheHiut streets,
A Colleftion of Papers on the fuhjeft of
Billious Fevers, prevalent in the United
States for a few years past.
Compiled by NO/II LVi-BSTtiR, jun.
Containing letters from Doflors Seaman, oaiith,
Buel, Taylor, Samfay, Monfon, Reynolds, Mitch
ell,on contagion, &c". &e.
Sept. 15.
"the subscribers,
ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GREERLEAF,
HEREBY give notice, that tbev have dilpofect
of the property afligiied to them for the securing
the payment of the nore-, acceptances, and
doifenients given by Edivard Fox, for the ufy
aftliefcid Jatnrs Grecnleaf; and the holders of
such notes, acceptances, and endorl'ements, are
hereby notifyetl that the l'ubfrribcrs will In tie
with llicm for the amount of their refpeilive
claims, both principal ind intfrest, at
any time befbie the act!) day of o<!Uiher next ;
af'r'er whieb day, the Holders not applying, will
be excluded, agreeably to the terms of affign
mcnt.
Applications to be made at south-east corner
of Dock and Second streets (the Dock-ftrjet
fide), between the hours of eleven and one o*
«iock every day, Sundays excepted.
Henry Pratt,
7bo. IV. Francis,
John Miller, Jan. >
John /Ifkley,
Jacob Bchr.
Philadelphia) Auguli 18, 1797. 4