of tht Htlitfcti and Philadelphia Dally Advertiser.
NVMBER 1641.]
SALES.BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DR r GOODS.
f FortnooriT— Edward Fox, No. 56,
FtOtU-ftrget,
J j -moon—Footman 3c Co. No. 6j
C ->uth Front-street.
Forenoon—John Connelly, Old City
TtefJaJj AmStton, No. 73 fout'h Front-street.
j Afternoon—■' William Shannon, No.
C. 183 High-street.
WeiMtfiajX Benfon, No. 74
J c louth Third-ftrcet.
fhurfday \ Fox.
J ( Afternoon—John Connelly.
Fri,lan I Forcnosn—William Shannon.
5 Afternoon—John ConneHy.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Bepfon.
To be fold at the Merchant's Cof
fee-Houfe,
O'N wednesday the 13th of December at 7 o'
cloek in the evening, one certain bond or
obligation dated July 16, 1795• signed- by John
Love of Alexandria for himfelf, Jofiah Wa-il'on
and Samuel Love for£ftno Virginia currency,
payable 011 the3ift of O&ober last paft,to Stock
ley Donelfon or his afligns—which ,Pond the
said Donelfon assigned to James Grant; under
whole power of attorney this sale will be made.
Per further particulars apply til the fubferibers.
FOOTMAN and Co. Atiilioneers.
Kov. 28. dtijthd
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(Jf not before disposed of at private sale)
ON Monday the firft day of January next, at fix
o'clock, in the evening, at the Merchants' Cof
se.e Vfvttfct in TliiAfii Sin
Seven Hundred and Eighty acres of LAND, in the
Statue of New-York, between the northern bounds
of Fennfylvania and the Susquehanna, now, or late
in the townships of Hamden and Warren, and coun
ty of Montgomery One foarth of the pur chafe
money t® be paid at the time of sale ; for the rcfidue
credit of one, two and three months, will be given,
on interest and good feturity.
D'c 4. ,31a wtS.
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not before disposed of at private sale)
ON \Jonday the fifft day of January next, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Coffee
House, in Philadelphia, Forty Thousand Nine Hun
dred and Thirty-Nioe acres of LAND in Green
county, Commonwealth of Pennfylvania,on tha Wa
ters of Fifti and Wheeling Creek, and toj Mile Ran.
Thefc lands are fertile, well timbered and abound in
coal; they were Jfold ten years ago for per acre,
patented early in 1787, except 3,700, which were pa
tented in J7Q* ; the greafeft part of them were sur
veyed in 1583.
Thit traft is between the Ohio and Monongahela,
very convenient to water carriage—abouti 9 miles from
tke town of Waflimgton, and from 14 to 16 from the
tillages of Green(burgh and Wheeling. One fourth
of the purchase money is to be paid at the time of
sale ; for the residue a credit of one, two, and three
xfeonths will be given, on interest and good (ecurity.
Dec 1. l3(»wtj
To be Sold,
The time of .a Negro Boy,
About fifteen years of age. has (even years yet
to fetve ; he is an excellent hoeje servant, a&ivs
and healthy. Enquire of the Printer.
December 2. _ d»w
To Gentlemen who intend /pending
the Winter in the City.
ROOMS to LET,
WITH or without Board—at No. 114. corner
of Sixth and Race Streets. The' Ctuation
agreeable—and vicinity has been free from the late
contagion. 061.47.—dtf
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBRIBGE with much pleaf
ureand rcfpe<f\, returns her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
she has received during four years refidenee in
Philadelphia; and allures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, she has made a superior arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars. —Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groombridge and masters excelling in their
refpe&ive profeflions.
(iorner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797. jimfcf
The fituatien is perfefllj healthy ; andmade
"more agreeableby an extensive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the hoiil'c.
This Day Publilhed,
A«i to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, eorner of
Second and Chefnut streets,
Price 3*Bths of a Dollar,
Obfervatitns on certain Documents
Contained in No. V and VI of
" The History of the United State* for
the year 1796,"
In which the charge of speculation against
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secretary of the Treasury, i* FULLY
REFUTED.
ttrn IT TEN Br HIMSELF.
This publication presents a concise statement
of the hafe means pradlifed by the Jacobins of the
.United States to asperse the characters of those
persons who arc confideredas hostile to their difor
.gaßizin'g schemes. It also contains the cor
respondence between Mr. Hamilton and Meflrs.
Monroe, MuhlenburgO and Venable, on the fub
jefl ef the documents aforefaid, and a series of let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha
milton, proving beyond the poflibility of a doubt,
•that '.he connection between him and Reynolds,
was the result of a daring confpiraey on the part
of the latter and his alTociates to extort money.
£3" A discount of one third from the retail price
will be made in favor ot wholefa|e purchasers, for
casu. Orders to be addrefled to Mr Yoons.
Augufl 15.
Landing,
From on board the fliip Edward, at Walnut
ftreet Wharf,
London particular Madeira Wine,
of a superior quality, For Sale by the fuhferiber.
Robert Andre-ws.
November 3. eotf
~~~ TO BE SOLD,
Or Exchanged for Property in the Country,
That three story Brick House,
Nq. 157, north Third street. Apply at the of
fice of this Gazette. cov. w&s fw
PHILADELPHIA: TUESDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 12, 17.97
For Londonderry,
a'T 5 * The American Ship
BOSTON packet,
Copperthwait. Matter,
lying at Mifflin's Wharf,
uear Vine-flreet—Has elegant accommodations for
passengers—will fail, weathir permitting, tin or
about the n>th inft. hiving all her cargo engaged
ready to go on board. For paflage only, apply to
the captain.
'Smith Is* Ridgway,
No 4, North Water fttreet.or to
Isaac Harvey, Jun.
No. 5, South Water street.
December 1 5 jot
tor Amsterdam,
EDWARD,
fJames Wickham, Mafttr,
EXPECTED to fail in a few days, having two
1 thirds of her cargo already engaged, and near.
ly on boird. For Freight or Paflage, apply to
the Mailer on board, at Hamilton's wharf, or to
John Donnaldfon,
No. 12, Walnut-street.
novrmber f.B. dßt
t or Amiterdam,
h >U?4)\ l r far ME R,
John M'Ccllom, Madcr ;
WILL fail in a few days', the
*£'ou*£33ZgX^w-s,g rcater p ar t of her cargo befcg
ready. For freight of fifty ton 6of Coffee, or paf
apply to the master on board, at Walnut'
street wharf, or to <
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who is Landing, out of the said Ship, from Boor
deaux, and For Sale,
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter calks
Claret in cases, of a superior quality
Fontiniac,
Sauterne, > Wiaes in cases
Lunifte, )
Prunes in boxes
november 14. 5
For Liverpool,
The copper bottomed Ship
Hamburg Packet,
Captain SitAS Swain.
A targe proportion of her
»iilrSi xA. cargo being ready to go on
board, is expeAcd to fail on or about Sanday, the
3d of December.
For Freight or Paflage, apply to the Captain on
board, at Walnut-street Wharf, or to
PHILIP NICKLIN Of Co.
November 11. §
For Londonderry,
THE BRIGANTINE
'rjY-* ft 1 William Writtin, Master.
"a ftronggood vessel, about two
hundred *om, to fail with all convenient speed, a
great p'art of her cargo engaged—now lying at
Willing and Francis's whatf. For freight or ptf
fage, apply to the captain, or
JOHN SKYRIN,
LantUmltergtr s wharf.
Who wants to Charter.
A Vessel of about three hundred torn.
no*> ' 8. §
iror Savannah, in Georgia,
THE SHIP
Sally Butler,
Captain Chisholm,
A new vessel, with excellent
*2»&35r„ accommodations for passengers
Sails on the 10th of December. Pur Freight or
Paflage, apply tQ ROSS & SIMSON.
IVt, have to iifpeft of,
A small invoice of GLAUBER SALTS
INDIGO, and a parcel of HOLLY WOOD.
November 18. $
For Hamburgh.
- The Brig MARY,
PtTRR York, master,
I Lying at Ruflel's wharf, near Pine
} street, is now ready to take in a
'{ - _• Cargo, and will fail in tea days.
For Freight, or Paflage, apply to
GURNEY & SMITH.
, November 16. dtf
Rundle & Leech,
Have just received, and have for Sale, at no. 9,
Wainut-ftrett,
Liverpool and St. Übes SALT
Do. best house CO A LS
Queens' WARE in cases, assorted
Bourdeaux BRANDY of an excellent quality
Do. CLARET in cases, do.
iTjl-, THfY HAVE ALSO
GRrnL F or SALE or CHARTER,
P E T G U G Y,
Burthen 215 tons, in excellent condition, and
may be fentto sea with little expenceor delay.
LIKEWISE,
WILLIAM,
. Burthen 201 tons,
november 16.
For Sale or Chapter,
The faft failing brig
Brothers,
Lying at Gurling's wharf,
an excellent fi»gle dcck'd vessel, burthen about
1600 barrels—not twelve months old, and in
coinpleat order. For terms apply to the matter
on board, or to
Joseph Anthony & Co.
nor. diw.
Landing this day,
From on board the schooner Two Friends, Dan
lei Crawley, Master,
FOR SALE BY
George Latimer Es 5 Son.
ueveihber 9. §
By John Fenno, N° 119 Chefnut Street,
THS SHIP
COMMERCE,
Captain Rictarq W.nsrc»iT,
JWSnGKLiverpool is now .Sfcharging
at Morris's wharf,' near the Drawbridge, whew
owners of goods on freight, will pleafeYpeMily to
fend their permits. Said vessel will after
take ill freight on very low termjs for Bollon. Ap
ply to the captain, or to
lfaac Harvey, jun.
No. 5, Sotlth Water Street.
A few tons of ftofle, or fartd hallaft wanted.
Apply as above.
November a; §tOt.
For Sale or Charter,
kML GOOD HOPE,
Wi l carry about noo barrels,and
is ready to take in a cargo. For terni6
■ apply to
Pragers Iff Co.
No. ijt-, South Secend.ftreet.
Who have for fal4—prime St. Croix Sugar and
Rrm, Madeira, Lisbon, and Tetieriffe wine.
November 7. dtf.
Port and Madeira Wine,
Now Landing,
By ftiip Edward, from Madeira, and Botfey and
Peggy, from Oporto, in Pipes and Hogsheads,
For fait by
PETER BLIGHT.
WHO AUSO OFFERS FOR SAL»,
4 "***- The Ship
tmL. *M,TT
feti.vwPour thoufand'lirrtb burthsn,
excelletn ojdtr—ready to take
in a cargo—about tbrce years old.
LIKEWISE,
The Schooner Industry,
Burthen 800 barrels, ready also to receive a car
go —and a quantity of
Jamaica Rum and Sugars,
Just landed from the above veflels at South street
wharf/ eolm. Nov. I.
Philip Nicklin & Co. .
HAPS FOR SALE,
At their Stores on Walnut street Wharf,
HavannahSugars, whiteandbrown
%S hhds. Jamaica de.
3000 pieces of broad Nankeens
Imperial Tea, in quarters and eighthiof chefte
Quickfilv; r in tubs
Madeira Wine in pipes and hoglheads
Teneriffe Wine in pipe?
Old ied Port Wine in hoglheads
Sail Canvass, assorted, No. Ito 8 '
8 cases of Manchester Goods,«onftftiag of Dimities,
Muflincts, Ginghams,Thickfctts, Corduroys, &c.
200 crates Queens' Ware, assorted
Nails, assorted
Black quart Bottles £ .
Yellow Ocre is ?»nb«
Aqwantity of writing Slates, slate Ink Stands, &c.
100 quarter calks Gun Powder
7bn tone alfoftr SALE or CHARTER,
The flip MOLLY, burthen 340 tons, V
good vessel, and completely fitted. .
The brig AMAZON, burthen 1300 bar
rels, may be ready for fe« In a tew days.
The whole of the above vessels to be foen at
Walnut street Wharf. § nov tcj.
BEEF.
Prime Beef, fit for India voyages, for sale by
WILLIAM
No. 168, High-street.
Also, about fifteen hundred weight of Bees-
Wax. dtf • Nov. 1797.
James tff Richard Stai^h,
TAKE the liberty of informing their friends
and the public, that they have remcved their
llore to No. 54, South ffhiJlreet. next deor to Ed
ward Fox's Au&ion Room, where they have at
this time for sale, a large and general assortment of
European & Eaji India Goods,
Many of which are just imported in the Clothier,
William Penn, kc. Sec.
OA. tf. ' ' 4
NOW LANDING,
* At South-street Wharf,
The Cargo of the Ship Concord
Captain Thompson, froip Batavia
About 300 tons firft qualify Java Coffee (the
whole having been
go tons Java Sugar*.in canillers and bags
ro legurcs of 1 old Arrack
Nutmegs, Mace and Cloves
roe s/>LB Br
PETER BLIGHT.
Who also offers For Sale,
Just landed from ftiip Amity, from Jamaica.
20® hhds Jamaica Sugar, and
170 do. do. Rum.
November 13. d6w
~ NOW LANDING,
From on board the (hip .Farmer, lying at Harper's
Wharf,
Claret in hhds.
Ditto in cases
Sauterne Wine in do.
For Sale, apply to
John Whitefide & Co.
No. 138, S arket-ftreet.
Also, on band,
Bourdeaux Brandy in pipes
Fine old Antigua Rum
A few eales of- Claret, of a superior quality,
novembor 19. §
r ■ ■ 1 ■ t .
Canal Lottery —No. 11.
WILL commence drawijjg Monday, thezoth
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven Dollart, at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-ftrcet—
Tickets ill the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
Dollars, where check books are kept lor regiller
ing and examining in these, the City of Waibing
ton, No. 11. and Paterfou Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may be had in moll of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the States of the
Union.
N. B. The business of a Broker, in buying and
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difcounti»)g Bills and Notes of Hand, (ale of
Lands, Houses, &c. &c. will be duly attended to,
by Wm. BLACKBURN.
November Is. §
4 Fifty Dollar Bank Note,
Of the Bank of the United Spates, was loft ou Sa
turday last, between the Bask of the United States
joH the Hoi fj market—!f an honed person has
found it, and ifcnft leave it wth the Printer hereof;
they ftiall be han«ifome'y rewarded.
December ri. (od3t
Bank of North America.
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, that an
•led ion fbr twelve Directors, for the ensuing year,
will be held at the Bank on MoaJay, the Bth of.
January next, at ten o'clock.
RICHARD WELLS, Cofhier.
December 11. dtßthT
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal.
THE (lockholders are requefled to meet at the
company's office, on Tuesday, the lath December
inft. at 3 o'clock in the afternoon, on impoitant
business.
WM. MOORE SMITH, See'ry.
December ir. ' 2t
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal.
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, that the
election for Prcfident and Managers, for the ensu
ing year, will be held at the company's office, on
thefiift Monday in Janujrv next, attoo'clock.A.M.
WM. MOORE SMITH, See'ry.
December 11. mw&ftiftroj
Schuylkill and Sufquehanna Canal.
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, that the
ele&ion for Prefiden- and Managers for the enfu
ingyear, will be held at the company's office, on
the firft Monday in January neat, at io o'clock,
M- • Dec. 11. mw&ftiftmj
£r Those who are Creditors of
the toe firm •{ ERASMUS JACKSON is* Co. or
of J. MUt)SI, are requeftcd tu attend at a meeting
to be held on Tuafday the nth inft. ay M'Shane s
Tavern, in Third Street between Market and Mul
berry Street, at 6 o'clock in the ovening. a
December 11 at
'New Afiembly Room,
South Fourth street, between Chefnut and Walnut
streets.
, Mr, FRANCIS,
OF THE NEW-THEATRE,
RESPECTFULLY informs his scholars and the
public in general, that his Academy for Danc
ing will commence, for the ieafou, on Thursday,
December 13, at tbe above
ELEGANT ROOM;
When he hopes to receive the contißuance of their
accustomed patronage, which it will be his unre
mitting endeavor to deserve.
The days of teaching for his young pupils are
Tharfdays and Saturdays, from j o'clock in the
aiternoon till 6, and from i till 9, for those of a
more advanced age.
At an accommodation to those living in this vi
cinage, Mr Francjs intends to inftrud a small
party of children on Wednesday and Friday after
noons, at his honfe.
Diftind from the Pradifing Balls, Mr. Francis
will have faur private feled Sabfcription Balls.
Private teaching, cither at the Academy, or his
h&ufe.
Mr. Francis's firft Pra&iGng Ball will be on
Tuesday, 19th Dee. at the New Afiembly Rcottt.
Ladies and Gentlemen's tickets to be had, by
applying to Mr. F. as usual.
For further particulars, enquire of Mr. F. No
70, north Eighth street. Dec. 11— mwf t 'f
MUSIC.
J. L. LENZ,
R Teacher 01 Vocal and instrumental Music,
ETURNS bis sincere tha»ksto the Ladies and
. Gentlemen, from whom he received a very
fmce his refidenee in this ci
ty, and refpciSfully informs hit friends and the pub
lie generally, that, in consequence of the requtft
of some of his firiviidi, he hat opened a Muftcal
'jcheol at his boufo in Sprace Street No 174, where
he will teach oa the Pi-ino forte, Violin &c. &c
He deems it unnectlTary to enlarge upon the ad
vantages the learper will'derive from an inftituti
on of this kirid j he will only fay, that at ten ton
and zeal are much excited in an aftsmbly, where
numbers are in pursuit of the fame objc&. His
arrangement is such, that an iutcrference of the
the different sexes will be avoided. Those Ladies
and Gentlemen who cannot make it convenient to
attend at hit school. he will wait upon at their
honfcs. Applications will be thankfully receiv
ed at hit house, where his terms and further parti'
culart may be known.
Dec. 7. "iweod
Samuel Pleafants Sons,
No. 74, South Second street,
HAVE received a supply of Seal'onable GOODS,
which they are now apening for sale, on
reafonablc terms. OA 27 —4W
All Persons
Having any demand) agamft tbe Edate of the
late Captain George Irwin, are requited to
bring in their accounts pioperly attelted, 011 or
before the firft day ot January next ensuing
and those who are indebted to said eliate are so
licited to make immediate payment to
SARAH IRWIN, Administratrix.
Nov. a 9 1797. \ 4
Mttftcal Instrument Manufactory,
167, Arch-street.
TO THE LOVERS OF HARMONY.
HARPER,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he has
now ready for sale, a few of hit new invented,
and much-admired fide board Piano Fortes, with
Pedals,patent swell, fonopahart and French harp
stop, *fhich for fenfihility of touch, brilliancy of
tone, simplicity and durability of conftrufiion, the
faperiority of which,he flatters himfelf, a single tri
al will convince the unpri judiceijudge—As they
aremanufaflured under his immediate iftfpe&ioii,
of the very be?, seasoned materials, he can fell 011
realonable terms for Casu. Inftrumsnts repaired,
tuned,&c.
N. B. Secondhand Piano Fortes taken in ex
change for new.
November 18. 2av/2mo.
Wants a place,
AS a Wet N'irfe, a young woman, who can
be well recommended. Inquire in Eleventh
street, near Race-street. Nov. 27.
*eodi w. ■
FOR SALE,
Several fonts of Types —half worn.
Including Long Primer, about 400 weight, in
gcod condition, and would answer the purpose of
.1 country printer as well as new.
Euquire of the Priiiter. Nov. 30.
The Subscriber intern# to make
dppiic3<t'»n for the renewal of a Certificate of a Share
in the Bank of the United Slates, landing in the name
«>t A. B. No. 5004, dated July 11, 1797, the fame
having been IoH. JOHN GRAHAM.
Richmond, Dec. t••
ROSS SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Coffas, and
a <ju3ntit,y of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bagsand boxes
Jamaica,
St. Vincents, S RUM.
and Bengal
300 cases RICeT
A parcel of Ihip building RED CEDAR. 1
Oil. 27. J
Mrs. GRATTAN,
RESPECTFULLY informs the Ladies and Gen
tlemen of the City, that llac propoles having''
Four CONCERTS and BALLS during the winter.
Six Dollars each Subscriber, for one Ticket of
rfu.iny the season.
No Subscribers Tickets transferable.
' wo Dollars a single Ticket.
The Concert to begin at half p*ft fix, and the
B'.nd to attend for the Ball at ei;»h*— the cxpenco
of whjch.Mrs Grattan engages to discharge.
Fhe Concerts will begin as soon as the Batid ar
rives from New York. j
Subscriptions receive J. and Tickets deliv
ered at No. 191, Market llrect.
November 19. . £ IW
i- __
Chocolate and Milliard,
of a superior quality manufadluf*ed,
GINGER and Pepper, ground ; ihelled or
pearl Bat ley ; Philadelphia Pt.rter, Bet'',
Al« ai«i Cyder ; Taunton ard Burton Ale ;
London Porter ; red. Port and Lisbon Wins,
fuitaMe tor exportation or home cotifumption.
The highefl pi ice given for Muftard-Sced.
Also forfait) A quantity of Bocking and
common Baizes, a variety of colon ; a balaof
Fustians, Shawls, &c, for sale by
JOHN HA WORTH,
N«. 98, fonth Front-ftrcet.
*ov. »7- ra.&th.t.ij.
For Sale by the Subscribers,
Prime Rice in luhale and half tierces
Bomdeaux Brpndj
Teneriffe Wine
Molasses
Georgia and Carolina Indigo
Ravens buck and one hog/head of paiit
brufbes.
N. is" J. Frazer.
Wo. js, Sonth Front Street.
Nov. 7. dim
IMPORTED '
IN the ftip Aurora, from Hamburgh, and for
sale by the Subscriber.
Bed tickt, 8-4, 9-4, and 10-4.
A quantity of Tapes, No. 13 and 15.
And on Hand,
German Mack Ribbon, No. 3 and 4.
, George Pennock.
novembtr 11 jawjw
~ DANCING SCHOOL. "
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL presents his
most refpeflful compliments to his form
er employers and the citizens in general, aad re
turns his most grateful thanks, for the very
bountiful encouragemeut he has expettenced for
these twenty-five years past, takes this opportu
nity of informing them, that his school is now
opail, at his
Elegant Ball Room,
in South Fourth-Street, between Chefnut and
Walnut-streets. To begin at jo in the morning
for young ladies, and 6 in the evening for young
gentlemen.
His firft Piaflicing Ball will be to-morrow
evening, Saturday, the 9th inft.
Dec. 8. iawtf.-
FOR SJLET
A Team of five excellent Horses,
with a Waggon and Gears. The Horses are all
young, strong, true to the draught, and capable
of hauling as great a weight as most in the coun
try. The Waggon and Gears are strong, and
in good order. Apply to ROBERT GREEN,
Weft Town, Chetter county, ortto
Thomas Fijher,
No. 14a, S. Second Street, Philadelphia
11 mo. 2) eodjw.
Yellow Fever and Pestilential
Diseases.
THIS, DA Y IS PUBLISHED, in one vol. ofiavo.
By William Young, Boohfellcr,
No. 51, Second street, the corner of Chefnut llreet,
{Price, in boards 871 a Cents)
Neatly printed on fine American wove medium
Paper,
A VIEW
Of the Science of Life ;
On the priuciples established in the elements
of Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BRO WN, M. D.
With an attempt to corre<ft some important er
rors #f that work, and cases in illftftration, chief
ly fele&ed from the records of their pra&icr, at
the General Hofpttal at Calcutta,
Br IVilliam Yates iff Chas. Maclean.
*
To which is fubjained, a Treatise on the a&ion
of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica.
tion for the cure of diseases of indireil debility
And a difiertation on the sources of Epidi micand <
Peftilentialittfeafes; in whicfiisat tempted toprave
by a numerous induftion of fails, that they ne
ver arise from contagion, but are always produ
ced by certain states, or certain of
the atrhofphere, by Charles Maclean, of
Calcutta.
nov- zt. $) it
I To be Sold,
A Valuable Plantation,
OF upwards of One Hundred Acres of Land,
well watered, in a heilrhy situation, about
fevea miles from this City ; the buildings may be
made to accommodate a large family, at a mode
rate expense, and poffefiion tad in a few weeks.
Part as the
able credit will b- allowed for the remainder.
Fnquire of the Printer,
november 3 mwftf
[ Volume XIIB A L L.
MR m'&.VK's firft Bail win b* Tip E
vcnir!* rath December, at O'EUcr,' Ho
tel, win n fsvcral new Country Dances for ti~.fi
culuiai, feifon will be introduce .. compoftd, Jr,d
aihptcd, by Mr. Byrne, far the smufement
of t'l company in general.
The Doors to bfi openeJ at fix, and the V»H
torn::', nce'at seven. Gentlemen's Tcke s one dolr
lar earh, ttffce h»d « —l,<diaV Tickets, I
gratis, for the season, of Mr. and Mrs. byrne,
No. 114, north Si*th ftrert. Pv 8.
i he City Dancing AiTembly"
Is unavoidably till the J4III iiA. &
1 - ti
tor bale by the Subicriber,
13 bales Cofias *' t
<0 flo. Baftas I:
it do. Mamoody c
17 do. Chintz ,
7 do. Toi.tery
i- do. GoraTnr
»j do. C
3 da. Check gripes t
I do. Guzzle (
I box Diapers
7 do. Umbrellas
if pip»s fined rarticuUr Madeira Wine, of
the vintage 1795.
MORDECAI LEWIS. '
December. t. "T- v 4'- v 1
Imported in the brig Eliza, 1
Copt. Hastlfrom Bourdtaux ;
Cli ret in ' afes of a very fuperiar quality,
' Vhi'e Sauterfii- Wi ein Caf «,
Olive Oil in bafbet* of I 2 bottles etch, J
V bite and coloured Kid Glovts,
rlo. dp. {-ill? do.
A f.tv pij*s of Bourdeaux Brandy,
Ecr' Sale by
JAMES 1 ATIMFR, jnn
71, South Wharves.
Who has also for Sale,
A few qr. Caflcs Old Sherry Wine,
nec. dzw
JUST RECEIVED,
(via New-York)
And now opening, by
■George Dobson,
No. 15, feuth Third flrcet,
An extenlivc and general afforttnent of
HABERDASHERY, viz.
Bed London mixt Pins Galloons and Ferrets
Common do. d». Worded Bindiiigt.affor-
Mahen3je''fup«T,patent. ted colours
white chapel Kkedles Imperial, dialer, and
Nuns Thread no. 6 to Thread Tapes
40, regularly aflorted White Edgings
Lisle do. no. 130 to SCO, Black •nd coloured Chi
regularly alforted ntrfe Ribbands
Coloured do. Sattin and figured do.
Black fewitig Silks Black Velvet, 1-4 to 12 A
Coloured do. and Twill Velvet & pelon Sattins
Silk and cottcn W ires French Cambrick
Do do. Ribbands ScoMi do.
Shirt Mould* and Wires Plain gilt and plated
Black brush Feathers Buttons
And 3 complect aflortment of G»ods, suitable
to the pr*lent ar.d approaching season, at reduced
price* Dec. 6. dtf^
for sale.
By JOHN MILLER, jun. Ctf Co.
'i No. 8, Chcfnut-ftreet,
One hundred and eighty bales
bengal goods, .
Amoagft which ar.-,
Gurrahs Mamoodies
Ea'tas Sannas
Gusi Oihs TaodaCoffaes
Guzzies Emertics
Blue Cloths Calicoes
Pslampoon Romall Handkerchiefs
"Amongli them are a great proportion of the
manufactures of Patna.
December I. §
THE PARTNERSHIP OK
Richard Sff James Potter,
IS this day dilTolved, by mutual eo»fent. All
persons indebted to the said firm, arc resetted
to Fay the fame to either of the fubfetibers; and
all persons having any demands against them, are
reqjelled to fend their accounts sot settlement.
Richard Potter,
James Potter.
December $ §
Uriah Smith,
No. JO, north Third street—has so* sals,
A neat and general afforrment of
Broad Cloths,Kerfeymeres,Napt
and Drib Coatings. also,
A variety of Gcntlemens' faftiionable fancy Waift
coatifig, silk Hosiery, &c.
December 5. *eod2\v
A jiandfome and roomy bouse, with a quanli
• ty of good land, wi'hin a few miles of this city.
A Heufe in an eligible situation, and several
I.ots in the cify.
A valuable body of Land cn the river Ohio.
Also, many tratfls of fine Lands (military
rights) lying near the Ohio, on the Miami and
Sioto Rivers .
Titles are all dear, and will be made with un
exceptionable security.
A rsfident of thisoity is desirous of exchang
ing this property for Goods—East or Wed Inaia
wouldbe pee.erred.
If the specie value of those Lands at a diltance,
cannot be ascertained fatisfaflorily, they (ball be
rated at such a price as the purchaser may have it
at his option to return them at the fixed price with
inttrefl, atths expiration of twelve months.
Notice left with the Editor shall be attended to.
December 6. * S
PhiladelphiaandLancafter Turn
pike Company.
THEStockhcldersare hereby notified, th.-.t the
anru.il Eleflion for O fficrrs for the erifuing
year,will be held at the Company's Office inPhila
d'lrhia, on the second Monday in January next, at
,o o'clock, A.M. Wm.OOVETT, Sec-ry.
Decern! er 7. at? m&wt?J
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
No. I If- Walnut-flxeet,
INFORMS those who wi(h to recur to the only
meass of becoming perfe<st in thcFjfcr.ch Lan
»u?ge,that he ha- juS opened his.LißsAßv, con
' fiaijlg'of upwards of 1250 volumes, the bed cal
> cuiated 10 afford either ufefuJ inftrucliorr, or plea
sure. Ihe conditions, together with a catalogue
ol the Library, may be seen at evexj book-feller's
in town.
N . b. All translations from and i:tfo tlje trench,
Errli.Ti ar.d Spanish Languages, executea with ac-
CBr*J and dispatch. eolm nav. IJ.
Gcenteel Boarding & Lodging.
A family may I rteeemmodated with a'Draw
imrßoora, two Bedchamber!, ar.d fuitah.e
acrrtrrmiodaiiion for f=rvai;ts~at 00. S3, north
fourth" Art". Dip. f— its
PHILADELPHIA,
TS7E3DAY EVENING, 'DECEMBER 12.
■■■' 11 , ' -r-v- 0
CONGRESS; «
HOUSE OF [\
ti
TUFSDAY DECEMIIKR 12. o
MefTrs. M'Do.iijall and Gillefpie, aptjsar- q
ed 111 their placeis for the firll time this fef- f,
.- 1 1
tion. t
The/Speaker announced a communiea- 0
tion from the Treasury. department, vvhiqh c
he delivered to the clerk to be read. It f;
contained a report and estimate of the ap- ]
propriations which will he neceflarv for the v
service of the year 1798, and also an
count of the receipts and expenditures for ;
the year preceding the llt of Oftober, 1797. j
Ordered to be printed and referred to the %
committee of Ways and Means. I
The Speak-jr also communicated a report
from the Seci etary of the Treasury on the ?
memorial of Robert Hazkhurft, and otlicrs, t
merchants of Charlt'fton, (S. C.) complain
ing of the operation of the aft direfting all |
goods and wares imported from abroad, to ,
be wtfighed and gauged by an officer of the 1
custom-house, stating that this direftion in- ,
jurt-d the private property of individuals 1
who had heretofore had this privilege. The ,
Secretary recommended that no law ftionld 1
be p ffed on the fubjeft but that the matter
in difputc between the custom house and in- j
dividuals (hould be brought to a legal dcci
fion. Ordered to lie on the table.
Mr. Harper, from the -committee of ways
and means, reported that the committee had
taken into conlideration the resolution of the
house refpefting the {lamp aft, and had di
refted him to report in part. The report
flatei, that, as the Secretary of the Trea
sury had found it impossible to provide the
necefary machinery, dies, &c. for carrying
the aft into effeft at the time proposed (the
Ift of January next) he had omitted to
give the notice which was direftcd to be giv
en in each (late three months previous to its
taking place ; that, finding it will not be
fafe to fix the period at which the duty shall
take place earlier than the ift of July next,
thty recommend a law to be pasTed to that
effeft. They mention, that some other al-"
terations had been fnggefted as neceflary,
but they thought it necefiary to leave these
for future conlideration, as it would be prop
er to pass this aft a3 soon as possible. The
report was read a fccond time and referred
to a committee of the whole for to-morrow.
Mr. Shepard prifented the petition of A
braham Whitney, a colleftor of revenue,
praying for certain reimbursements. Re
ferred to the Secretary of the Treasury.
Mr. Macon, from the committee «f revi
fal and unfinifhed business, reported the laws
which will expire before the next meeting
of Congrefs.—Referred ,to a committee of
the whole.
Mr. Venable, from the committee te
whom was refew*dr lo whether any
and what alterations were necefiary in the
law refpefting silver coin, reported it as their
opinion, that a law (hould be pafl*ed autho
rising and requiring colleftors of revenue to
receive foreign silver coin, other than Span
i(h dollars and parts thereof, at the rtites at
which they were received before the 15th
day of Oftober lad, for two years, and from
thence to the end of the next feffien of
Congress ; and to suspend so much of the
aft as relates to foreign gold coin, for the
like time.
On motion to agree to the report (as it
was said to be in consonance with a circular
letter which had been sent to the Ctolleftors
from the Treasury department) it was mov
ed to be postponed, by Mr. Sitgreaves, to
Wednesday.—Agreed.
Mr. Holmes . presented the petition of
; -Richard Schott, a soldier in the war, for
compensation. Referred to the committee'
• of claims.
Mr. Sewall, from the committee to whom
was referred that part of the speech of the
President of United States, which related to
the meafurts necefiary to be taken for the
. proteftion of commerce and the defence of
' the country, stated that that committee had
requested him to ask the fame leave for them
to report by bill or otherwise, which had
i been given to all the other committees ap
pointed at the fame time.
Mr. Nicholas thought the nature of this
resolution fully juftified the deviation which
~ had been observed in the forming of the re
solution appointing this committee. It ap
•, peared to him better to have the fubjeft in
E the form of a report, than a bill, in order
that it might receive full discussion.
Mr. Sewall said, it was not possible that
1. the committee conld bringforwardany thing
upon which the house would not have full
power to' aft, and if they were allowed' to
report by bill, it would considerably lefien
their labour, which was the principal objeft
e of the motion.
S Mr. Nicholas was not desirous of impof
l" ing unnecefiary difficulty or trouble upon a
ny committee ; but if the business was so
important, it was an additional argument for
- the house not only to eiamine the fubj'eft,
but the details. It was the praftice of the
house to have all important business firft in
the form' of a report, which gave time for
discussion arid refleftioni arid he thought afi
y innovation upon theufualorderofproceeding
i- in this refpeft might have a bad effeft. He
- wiflied before any projeft flionld be broflght
before them in a bill, they might discuss its
" principles.
5 Mr. Pinckney laid, the leave now asked,
was no more than had been allowed to all
>• the other committees appointed to take in
" to confutation psrts of th» President's
speech. He thought if a bill were report
ed, every opportunity would be given to
' obtain information on the fubjeft, as fuffi-
I cient time might be allowed betwixt the fe
-1 veral readings, and they could better explain
the nature of the regulations, with refpeft
to the duty of-ceikaor* at JjjK. fevcral p#it«, npj
,by a bill thatf a repoi*>. bo,pci3,there- the
fore, asmuch trouble would be. laved by this for
mode of procedure, that the requelt of the m;
committee would be ecmplied with. fujj
Mr. Harper said, the reason why the form mi
of this resolution differed from the other of.
(was, beeaufe it was of a .very ext'enfive na- in
ture, noltfs than to take in'tp consideration ds
the (tieafares proper to be tiken for the pro- so
| teftion of our commerce and the defence of pr
I our country, which wis supposed would re- th
j quire previouselucjdationby a report,before of
j fpecific measures we're brought forward in wt
I the foilmof a bill. He had, however, no w<
j objections to comply with the re of the qu
i committee, as he believed they might be th
fafeljr jrufted with the discretion required, w<
• Indeed it w;i« iw>t.<;oiiteinplated,hebelieve<2, ;ny
I when the committee' was appointed, that jbe
■ j any thing refpc&tog COTeftovs, or colled- cc
' I ing of duties, wo\>ld have come within its fa
j purview ) but as they had thougjit othet- pi
: wife, jie-hoped the liberty theyafked Would a
|be granted.- - iol
; Mr. S. Smith said nothing had been said re
1 1 abouti collecting duties, but of the duty of w
> I collectors, with refpeft to J.he law of 1794- p !
■ I Mr. Gallatin would be glad to have far- tl
' I tiler information on this fubjeft. He wish- fj
' I ed to know whether what was meant to be |
■' I brought forward refpefting the conduct of g
■ j collectors was mere matter of detail,or whe-j C
3 I ther it involved any new principle ; if it ir
: I were the former, he should not objeft to the | n
I I mode proposed, but if not, he should be a-' ft
r I gainst deviating from the usual mode of si
I procedure. j t<
- I Mr. Sewall said, the purpose which the v
I cpmmittee had in view wasto determine the : b
■ I question refpefting.the arming of merchant 1 t
I I vessels. Befori the last meeting of congress j d
e I it would berecolleft<fd.that the Prelident of b
- I the \Jnitrd States had issued orders to pre- a
t I vent the arming of merchants' veflels,except (
1- Jin certain cases. The committee were doubt- 1;
e ful whether there txifted any authority in v
g tlie Pre C.den( to jffue thefeorders, the exe- , c
e cution q{ which, had been opposed in vari- t
0 ous parts of the Uiuted States. This sub- g
'• | jest had been under the consideration of the f
t« committer, and they thought it more expe- t
>e dlent to report in detail, the regulations ne- i
II ceffary,in the form of a bill, than to report
t, in any othu/onu. — If the house wished the j
it business to be done otherwise, they would, «
l-'l of course, refufe a compliance with the re- j
f, quest. I
fe I Mr. Veiwble said, from the flatements' c
3- which had been made it appeared that the \
>e I committee had had two fubjefts under con- I
-d I fideration, one of which had been referred
to them, and the other not ;as if they wish- 1
L- ed to blend them together, and to bring in (
e, I a bill at their discretion The committee 1
e- was appointed to rfport what means would i
I be the bell to be taken for th® protection of ;
'- our commerce,j but the fubjeft which they <
's had brought before the house was, whether 1
g thf-revenue officers of the United States 1
if had performed their duty in refpeft to an !
exiftinjr,l^^vh^J»i?V 3 a diftinft thing, and 1
:® I entirely-writ of- tbtC'fefereug* which had been '
iy | made to them. iV the rtvenue officers had 1
»e I atted improperly, it was a fubjeft necefTary
if 1 to be enquired iirro, on information being
3- I received through a proper channel. The
:o I attention of she committee ought to be con
n- I fined to the business referred to them, and
at I they should report accordingly. He was
th 1 opposed to ,the motion, fipce, it was wholly
m I contrary, to the praftice of the house to go
of I into details, before tHey had fettled tjie prin
he ciple upon which they were about to aft.
he I Mr. Gallatin believed, when this commit
tee was appointed, it was not intended that
it I it should have the power of reportingbybill.
ar I The business of the other fix committees ap
»rs I pointed at tjie fame time, and to whom this
>v-1 power was given, were wholly different in
to I their nature from this. [He read the dif-
I ferent refolutions.il The principle of the
of I objefts upon which these committees were
or I appointed to aft, had already been more or
:ee I less fettled in the house ; but what was the
I business of this committee ? It was n6 less
>m I than t« report the meafurts proper to be ta
he I ken for the protection of our commerce and
to I the defence of our country. The Preiident
he I in his fpeefh, had fpolten at large on these
of I fubjefts [Mh Gallatin read an extraft from
ad I thq address if the Pfi-fident.] This refer
fm I fereifce, be embraced all the objefts
iad I which had engaged Meattention of congress
tp- during their extraordinary session ; it did
I not only iricfifdfc armin'g of vessels, but also
his the raising of armies, building of a navy, a
ch resting ofarienals, &'C. that so far from giv
re-1 ing this committee farther power, he tho't
ap-1 thi power .already git-en them was too great,
in 1 and that the fubjeft should firft have beeft
der I discussed in a committee of the whole oh the
state oft he union—Whenprinciplesofthis im
hat portance were to be established, the business
ng should be fettled in the house. He should,
Pull therefore, be wholly opposed to granting
to the liberty required.
ren Mr. Rutledge did not think the commit
eft tee had exceeded their powers in taking
this fubieft under their consideration. They
iof- had rrothing to do with the revenue officers;
1a- they would, of course, shew that the provi
;fo fio'ns already ( made refpefting the arming of
for merchants* veffefs, had proved inadequate.
:ft, Orders, it 'wis well'known, had been iflued
the by the df the United States to
in prevent the arming of veflels ; but,' in ma
for ny inftane'es, these orders had been protested
afi against. Preljdent had said merchants
ing should thefr yeffels ; the merchants
He had the P'refelent had no authority to
jht forbid tliem. He thought this business
its should be lqoked adjufted ; and he
di(l not t-e up«n wfiat ground gentlemen
ed, could charge the committee with bringing
all forward projrßs [Mr. Nicholas here inter
in- rupted Mr. R. and faidte had no particular
it's meaning in uftng the wordprojetl.] Mr. R.
irt- said if there were any <proj(B irihand, he was
to unacquainted with it. He had not been in
ffi- the hpufe loug enough to lenow whether the
fe- praftice of reporting by bill was novel; but
ain he believed it was not.
eft Mr. Sitgreaves said, the intent of the
appointment of Seleft Committees «rj», th it bp!
they should produce flifts and lay them be- ing
fore the House in a collefted view; they ed
might properly be called the Pioneers of chf- thn
ftijjion. The belt mode of doing this, <K>m- anc
mittccs themfclves muitbethe beit judges 001
of. Some fubjefts would be belt prefentcd It
in the abftraft ; others would require to bsi tlu
detailed. Stippofe two cases, said he, be- bic
fore a committee—the one a proportion for
private, the other for public arming. If hir
the committee should propose the building hai
of more vessels .at the public expenoj, this
would be unconnected with any detail; ic thi
would be a Bogle queltiort, and would re- on
quir: no light from the committee ; but if ful
j the fubjeft was a Pri,ate Armameni, a pian fid
! wotild require ti» he detailed, before a judg- ed
: ment could be giv«?n upon it ; as it would at<
i be proper to be permitted or reltriCted, ac
cording to circumltaoces. The committee, m;
said he; on this ac»ount, alii tu have the rel
power to present the present bufinefj in fueh
a view as to give the House the belt means la'
los determining on their proportion. The it
requelt ought, therefore to be complied mi
with, since they are the belt judges of the pi
proper mode of prefrnting the fubjeft, as pa
they alone are fully poflefled of the fafts re- ti<
fpefting it. 1 M
! Mr. N. Smith was surprised that any M
gentleman should be opposed to giving the b<
! Committee leave to report by bill ; because, d<
: | in doing this, they could not possibly do a- th
:; ny harm, though they might give them- so
■ f selves unneceflary trouble. The gentleman er
: from Pennsylvania (Mr. Gallatin) seemed ft
| to think the principle could not be discussed pi
: when a fubjeft was in the form of a hail;' di
: j but this was not the cafe. It was true that c<
11 the principle of a quefiion was frequently fc
> | determined before a bill was brought in ; al
F but it might just as well be done afterwards j al
- and if the principle were objefted to, the >
t Committed would, of course have loft their p
- labour. He thought when a Committee r-.
1 wefe willing to risk this trouble, *he-Houfe k
- , could have no reasonable objeftion to ir; It p
- might be, as had been represented by the It
- gentleman last up, that the principle of a t<
e fubjeft could not be judged of, without b
- the detail ; when a Committee fortfaw. this, b
- it was certainly their duty to report in detail, tl
t Mr. Thatcher did not understand the tl
e ground upon which this motion waß oppof- f<
, ed. It was certainly no new praftice. The si
- pkn for eltablifhing a new militia system, f
had been reported iti a bill, as an illustration t
s' of the report. He bop«d the Committee c
e would be allowed to report their detail iti a 11
- bill. ' £
i Mr. J. Williams was opposed to a report c
- by bill. The powers granted to th is t
n Committee, be said were very extensive. t
e which would be discussed, and adopted, and 1
d a bill ordered to be brought in, or rejected, ]
if as was thought proper. The Committee a
y of ways and Means had thefubjeft of Revet
r nue generally referred to them; they gave 1
:s their opinion, from time to time, as to the ;
n Weft mode of railing revenue, but they had (
d no general pow-r given them to report by 1
n Ir9i ■; tic Injpeil the fame course would be ;
d observed by this Committee. ■>— j
y Mr. Nicholas (having obtained leave t« t
g rife the third time) said this question was <
e important, not only as it related to the bu
-- finefs before the house, but with refpeft to ]
d their general proceedings. The gentleman
is from Massachusetts (Mr. Thatcher) had ■
y spoke of a bill accompanying a report, in the i
;o cafe of the militia system, as an illustration I
l- of it. If this would fatisfy the Committee, ,
they could do this in the present cafe. He
t- was surprized that the gentleman from Penu
lt fylvania(Mr. Sit greaves) should not confi
-11. der this an abftraft queftibn. At the last
p- feffion,'it had been considered as an abftraft
is question, and rejefted. And could any
in gentleman fay, that at this time, when our
f- conneftion with the world is much happier
le than it was fix months ago, this question
rc ought not to be considered abftraftedly ?
or What, said he, should we have thought of
he the committee, if they had asked for leave
'fs to bring in a bill to build ships of the line;
a- to ereft fortifications ; to raise armies, &c.?
id Wpuld ihefe propositions have been coniid
nt ered as mere matters of form.? On the
'fe contrary, would not the honfe have revolted
m at such a proceeding? They certainly
;r- would. They would have thought it pro -
sts -per, firft to- h9t«T enquired whether'-our
;fs means were adequate to efftft these fehetSes.
lid Yet they were, all at once, aflced for this
so power, by the present propofltion. In the
a- last session, the house proceeded very d'ffer
iv- ently. A ref&lution was laid upon the table
>'t and committed to a committee of the whole
it, and there fully discussed, and solemnly rtjeft
efi ed ; but they were now inclined to treat the
he business with more levity. He trulted,
m- however, the house would net consent to
ess this mode of ptoceeding.
Id, Mr. Otis said the present motion was op
ng posed on account of its novelty, though he
believed the novelty would more properly
it- attach to the opposition. He believed there
tig never had been an inflance, whether the
ey fubjeft was of great importance or other
rs; wife, in which, when a ltqueft like the pre
vi- sent had been made that it had been refufed.
of Was it then right, because such a propafiti
te. on was made, to speak of the movers of it,
led as if they were about to propose the build
to ing of a Naval Force, or the ranging of ar
na- mies in battle array ? He thsught not, and
ted infiftcd upon the propriety of the proposed
nts privilege being allowed; which hie believed,
nts so far from being used improperly, would
to be the means of kee ping out of view the ab
efs ftraft question of arming, which was not
he necefl'ary at present to be touched,
icn Mr. Isaac Parker wa3 in favour of grant
ing ing the leave asked for, as it appeared to him
er- to have been the praftice of the house.
lar Mr. Varnum infilled upon it that it had
R. never been the praftice of t!«e house to take
V2S up great national questions, until the prin
-lin ciple had been decided upon in committee
the of the whole. It had been faia leave had
but never been refufed in a fimilareafe ; but he
believed it had never been aficed. It was
the well known there was a great difference ot
opib'ibn iu the house on the fabjocl of arm
ing. The President had again recommend
ed to them, all the measures with tefpett to
that business, that he had before suggested,
and they were about to give the power to a
committee to report bills upon all of them.
It had laid 'oy a gentleman before him
that the President had done wrong in for
bidding the arming of vessels.
Mr. Rut]ed'ge denied having so expressed
himfelf; he hud said that the Merchants
had said so.
Mr. Varntim observed it was insinuated
the President had been wrong iij.iffuing the
order ; and if a bill was brought in on the
fubjefk he supposed the conduct of the Pre
sident would be impeached by it. He trilft
ed* therdfor? this business would not origin
ate in the form of a bill-
Mr. Dana was ready to give the Gentle
man last up due credit for his solicitude with
refpeft to the President of the United States
—but he could not be ignorant that thfe
law was doubtful as to its conftruftion, and
it was proper that this doubt (hould be re
moved ; and would it, he alked, be any im
putation on the conduft of the President to
pass a law to fay what was the true confiruc
, tion of the former law ? Certainly not
i Mr. Dana referred to what had fallen from
. Mr. Nicholas in objection to the buSuefs
being introduced by a bill ; there was no
doubt, he said, but, if that were the cafe,
that gentleman's ingenuity could introduce
something to produce a difcufikm o* fuffici
ent length, as it would he recolle&ed he had
fumifhe&a debate of three weeks by a finglc
propofitioi) to amend an answer to the Pre!i
---dtnt/s address at the last feflion. He was
confident 1 that as the committee had aflced
for leave to report by bill, it ought to be
allowed, and denied that the prefsnt was an
I abftraft question. v
i Mr. Gallatin allowed that it had been the
pra&ice of the house to grant the power to
report by bill, when it was aficed ; but he
knew of ho instance where a committee, ap
pointed for general purposes, had a (Iced tkis
leave.; They had several (landing commit
tees ; but they never came forward at the
beginning of a feflion to a(k leave to report
, by bill. He had already said that he tho'c
this committee improper, and he repeated
■ that at no time did he tecollecl business of
so important and general a nature being ri
fered to a feleft committee ; the proper rt
, ference would have been to a committee of
i the whole on the state of the union. As this
: committee had been appointed, he (hould
i not now, however, move to have it dischar
ged. If it were were wished to report a bill
t on the fpecific fubjeft mentioned, if the mo
s tion was so expressed, he (hould nob objeft
. to it. In regard to the general proposition
1 he did not with to feg it at present discussed
, He believed the fate of the present negad •,
f ation mud decide the opinion of the house
- on this fubjedfc. If it terminated as they all
e hoped, the fubjeft of arming would riatnr
e ally drop ; but if not, and the depredation!
i on our commerce were contmned, tlreie
f would be no difference of opinion about
e mfrrUant vessels, at lea 11 if rf<it
going further. He wiiheel, therefore, that
® this fubjeft might not at present come un
s der difculfion.
i- Mr. Thatcher again spoke at confidera
o bis length in favour of the motion,
n Mr. Findley was opposed to this mode of
d proceeding. It was cutting off a part of t
e their deliberations on important matters, and
n he (hould beCorry to fee the ordinary mode
of doing business. in this refpedt, changed,
e Mr. S. Smith was aertain, it thecommit
i- tee had forefeen that this motion could have
t- produced so long a debate, it would not have-.
ft been made. They thought it the best, way
ft of bringing the business before the House;
y he was indifferent which way it was done,
ir Before the last feflion, he said, the Prefi-
ST dent had issued orders to prevent the failing
>n of any-amud vtffels, except to the East In
• diesCongrefs took up the fubjedt, and
:>f it seemed to be admitted, on all fides, that
'e there was a natural defence in Merchants to
prevent their vessels being taken. The sub
■ • jest of the President's order was taken into
-1- consideration; and he believed it was gener
ic ally allowed that th* President was.not au
:d thorized by law to ifiue this orde-. This
ly being the general opinion, it was conceived
>■- by Merchants tint ! thcy might, as heret»-
Jr fore, arm tlieir vessels in their own defense.
s - —>— Some (hips, however, attempting to
is clear out, were (topped by the Colle&ors.
Ie A new order was issued by the President,
r- which gave a further privi'ege of armijg
le vessels to the coast of Africa. Injurious
h consequences had arisen from this. He
knew a vessel which failed from the .United ,
le States to the coaft'of Africa, armed, for gold
d, dust and ivory, which wasattack«<d by a-liri
to tifh armed vessel, but instead of being taken,
(he took the Britilh vessel. The confe
p- quence was, the captain was prosecuted for (
tie pirafcy and thrown into gaol. This, Mr,
ly Smith said, was a breach of neutrality,
re which called for a law to prevent it.
he The Committee thought they could effect' .
r- the business in the belt manner by a bill, and
*- therefore aflced leave to bring it in. Mi
d. Smith was of opiniun Merchants had-a right
ti- to arm their vessels, and he thought this
it, right was countenanced by the act for pro> ,
d- hibiting the exportation of arms, as anna
ir- on board of merchants vessels, for the pui
nd poses of defence, were excepted from the
ed operation of the ae\.
:d, Mr. Veoabletjtd in o>js<ftion to allow a hill t»
l)J brought in upon pait:eular fubj-A, but
| j s _ not agreeto thu lc.ivi beitii; general.
Ivtr. Sitgreavik. Mr. Gabatin, .'vfr. Otis, *nd
Mr. Varnum e.ichnvii'e a few oSfcrvitrUJs *s W>
this node of proceeding,
nt- Mr. Pincltney said, much had b»ih observed
j m as to precedent ;he did,not know wbjit had Ueeii
the pr nflics, hut he believed it was within tiie
j power of the house to agree to motion, which
he thought desirable, He took notice «f. an
ikc fwerel the ohjjisiions to rliKmodeof acting.
in- ' ringiig in a bill, he laid, they fliould prevent
t ee theab iraift qufHisin fr.om being.igitjted. lagi--
1?( j neral; he thought the hcu p e (hould avcid abiHael
, quedions, as marfy errorn aiofcl'rosn 'ii's nviir
le aiSiii'. Besides. if the cjueltion w. < j*>orte4 al»*
vas ftradleJly, it 'night.oot be elcarlyui)rieri!<'o.d,rr ;
ot Jin confequeaee njecied. The gent.tmar; j.unPrnnfy'vania bnd-f?i;!, he vviflied the quefticn of
ivmirg to he Iccf t cut of fight at present, le!l it
haw an eflfjct upon Our negotiations with
J-'rance ; he was asanxir-us as any man that these
should fuccred; VUt ht feared tha' their not atjit i- m
ting this qudlion at this time, miehi have a gr. a- Si
tev tlfoa til hlnd.-r ihe fateefs yf the negotiation, ot
than any thingeifc. It wn g:nerjtWy uujp-ilooc),
im.4 .it M< his opinion. th:t rvtty citizen.trad a
vi«ht to arm Uis v<ffcl for
m .is. deprecations nnou the Vt-lTelsof foreign pow-
et». If merchaiiK arm their velTels,therefore, and ; w
Cfmniit excelf'.s which mentioned, [■]
rhey may have a greater upon the negotia- j
ti-in thar. a-iy regulation which they might enter
Vr. Scwall leave) faidhe rose u la
rather to explain his prnpoiition, than to support e(
it. Ithad been so changed, and had fu«h a formi
d'aMe appearance given to ir v thit hefcarcely tnew
it for his own. It had besti called a propolition
which might totnmit the of the nation, tho
it only aGced leave to report a bill. He did not 01
conftder all the nhj ilions which had been urged a- h:
prcpofition, as ni isinniing in a dillruft 0
ot the committee *. it. would grieve him to think
10 ; but from what gentlemen believed to be the j
intention of the committee. It was said they
meant to report a bill to-provide an extraordinary u
army, to ku lu vessels ps war, scc. Put was it w
liotjevident, hsfaid, that the gentlemen who op- a
t-of; this motion, were the fame who oppof-i eve
ry tiff-nfive mcafure on a former occaGun ?Ha -
doubled not it was. Gentlemen wh» wiihed to
defeat the pr"po(i"ion t fait! it proprf d hoilileprc- t
f iratior.s, whilrt thAfe whp support d it, believed i:
it to relate to a *nere domestic regulation. Ihe •
blithe eommi'tae wjOitd to introdute was neither v
a to arm, nor a relttuitirn fror.i arming ; v
fomeCuae fs-.r.vlxt hbth—fornc thing which affeil. | '
the poV. r .if cullom houle offirers. rmrcly.ther, c
• it wasnr.t detcrvu'g of all th: h,trOl epithet'given 1
to it. Tlie realnii- for widiing to I.ring in a bill, e
Mr. S. again repeated, was the difficulty which
r v .e committee founi in reporting latislaitorily in
atij other way. '
The qliettioh was taken by Yeas and Nays as (
follow, 49 to 45 ; the Speaker voting in the affir- t
mstive. the v;as carried- j
V£AS—Mcffr>. Allen, Eaer, Brooks, Battlett, ,
Champlin, Cochran, Craik,Oaiia, Dennis, '
Erimonrl, Erans, rt.Fofler, D 'Fo.t-r, J. Frtemao,
GUn, Goodrich, Gerdon, Grirwold, Grovs. Par- '
per, Httidroan, Hofmer. Imlay. f yuan, Machir, 1
Malthcws, Morgan, Otis, Jofiah barker,
irhacParfcer, Pitx-fcner. Reed, Butjiedge. Schj»r«- 1
man. Sewall, Shepard, Sitgreaves, N. Smiih, 8.
Smu'o, TfiatcTier, Tilling'!aft, Van Alen, Wads- '
worth —45
WATS—Mrffrj. Baldwin, Bard, 31ou*t, Brent,
Bryan, Burgess, Chapman, F Claiborne. W. C.
ciaibornt, Clay, Clopton, Coit, DaTis, Dawfon,
Drnt, F.lmtndcrf, Findley, Gallatin, Gillcfpie,
Gregg, Warrt/on,"Hav«n«, Hiifter, Holmes, Jones,
Locke, i.yoti,-Macon, M'Cltnachan, M'Dowell,
New, Nichijlai. Skinner, W. Smitn, Sprigg Stan
ft,rd,Suna\)t?r."! hompfon, J. Trigg, ATrigg, Van
Cbrtlundt, Varnam, Vcnable, J. Williams, R.
Williams— 45. ~ Adjourned.
Ij, ! ■ ~
For/he Gazette of the United States.
Mr. Fenno,
The inclosed Translation of a Petition from
the real Merchants of Nantesto the French
Council of Five Hundred, relative to the
capture of American vefiek, may ufeful
ly fill a column in your paper.
THE UNDERSIGNED,
Merchants, Mariners, and Citizens,
of the Commune of Nantes,
To .the Covfcn ef Five Hvndhed.
litprtftniatiws of the Peoplr,
A petition has been "presented to you en>-
titled : " Tie Merchants, owners of Priva
teersyond Mariners of the Commune of Nantes. I
to tie Counut nf Five Hundred to pray you
to fix in a t>ofiti\* manner the political and com
metciat rilotions -which exifl hetiueen I-ranee
aid the United States, and to put an end to the ,
diverPty of optnhfu mami fled on this important
oijfUj either hy the Executive Directory and ,
judiciary authority j or even in the bifim of the \
Legislative Body.
If those who signed this petition had pre- j
fented it only in their names, we should have ,
been silent ;'bnt feeing they have taken the |
collective name of the merchants, owners of
privateers and mariners of the Commune of
'Nantes, the undersigned who also form a
part of those classes of citizens in the com
mune of Nantes, and who do not partake
of the opinion #E the petitioners in divers ef
- fcntisl points,' think it their duty to tell
with that franknefs which becomes repub
licans,-in what they differ from them.
We as well as they desire peace ; but w
think it a Grange way of accelerating it by
iirovokinga war against ,a friendly nation.
They make a long and eloquent enumera
tion of atrocities and crimes, commited by
individtial Americans against French citizens,
and they would wi/h to render the Ameri
can government responsible for them ; af
terwards they think it veryjuft that other
innocfiit individuals should be puuifoed for
the injuries which they have wrongfully im
puted to the government.
The third for gold has without doubt at
all times caused many crimes to be com
mitted •, every nation has its villains : all
that a government can do, is to have them
punished according to the law, when it fur
nifties the means of overtaking them.
Declamations are not proofs. It is not
fufficient to speak when one is not afraid of
being contradiaed. The two parties must
6e heard, and impartial justice ought to
preside at the difcuflion of fafts often exag
erated and perverted by interested accusers.
The petitioners confounding, as they per
ceived it ufeful to their cause, some Ameri
cans, with the Americans, that is to fay, in
dividuals with the government, reproaches
the latter with having fed us with bad meals
at exorbitant prices.
Nevtrthelefs we know how thele meals
xvere furnifhed. The _ French government
had them brought by its own ag ents ' ?' h °
mandates on the treasury »;t tne United
States, eager in our distress to reimburle us
a debt not yet due : the American govern
ment had no other part in these purchases
than that of paying lor them, and it the
meals were "bad of which we are ignorant,
certainly the government was not to blame.
As to those which the Americans brought
into our potts, we likewise know that they
were aim oil almost all taken or bought by
the functionaries of the government. 1 heie
functionaries did hot buy on samples ; the
commodities themselves were under their
eyes ; they could refufe the bad-- and they
conftaritly did so here 5 or all that was found
d.rrug:d on inferior, was Vajflrd by arbitra- to
tars. ' w
W« are notlefs ignorant that at St.Qo- of
■mingn, the prices of meals from the United ar
States, were fixed by the commhTionaries of A
our government.
If the fellers have endeavored to obtain m
high prices, they have only done what eve
ry merchant and the petitioners themselves
would have done in their place. Every cap
tain chooses the market which he thinks the
moll favorable for the sale of his cargo.
They deceived themselves in this refpeft the
daft year, and loft more than they had gain
ed the preceding ( I) w
Here we fee what this heavy charge con- g
cerning meals amount to. c ,
Not being able to speak with ins jrmation
on the cause of the other accusations, which
have also for their balls only the ill conduit
of individuals, transformed into complaints
againftthe government, we it to $
the accused to refnte them ; but not to be j
unjust we must hear them. They will fay j'
without doubt (and they wiU prove it) that
at New-York and at Philadelphia, the in- ~
habitants made conliderable fubfenptions to
succour the poor refugees of .our colonies ; -
that congress voted them succours, and that
in general they were received with humani
ty and benevolence. Thefc proceedings as
! well of the government as of individualswill
| hold the counterpoise in the balance of c
quity, against accufat ions of hard hearted- 11
nefsand injustice, which after some isolated '
examples they would cad upon them. (2) )
We shall not discuss their treaty with En
gland, Ws'ltiift examine whether, depriv- c
ed of a naval force, and having no fuceours '
to hope from ours, they could have refufed '
it : we must likewise examine, whether it a- j
greed with their liberty and their political
fitnation, even with refpeft to us, to main- 1
tnin a naval force. This research is foreign '
to onr present objeft. What we lhall per
■ mit ourfefves to fay on the fubjeA of this
ti**ty,4», that if, in lb* place of a frank i
and friendly explanation, or of aa open rup
ture, it had only provoked the decree of the 1
, Dire&ory of the' 11 Ventore (3 ) ; that mea
sure appears to us partial, precipitate, con
' tradiftory and inefficient.
It is partial ; inasmuch as it affe£ts indi
' viduals for the most part innoceot, whose
property it confifcates to the profit of thofc
1 of our privateers which have the easy ad
vantage of taking people who did not mis
trust us.
It is precipitate ; inasmuch as it orders the
■ sudden and immediate execution of a regu
lation which ought to have been fignified to
the American navigators, before fubjeding
1 them to the penalty of contravening it, It
1 is certain none of them fufpedled they should
e have need ef a role d' equipage in the for
malities prescribed in that decree. The
treaty of 1778 fays nothing of the role ; it
only mentions a paflport, and the farmule
to which the article XXVII of the treaty
, refers, seem to have required no more than
the fame paflport, by means of which all
the previous formalities are supposed to have
been fulfilled.
.It is true our most celebrated lawyers have
different opinions on thefenfe ofthisformule;
t , | this prcves at least that it is not clear ; and
u if they do not agree in this refp*&, how can
1. j we require that the Americans, who but
~ imperfectly understand our language, bebet
m ter informed ? finally, why did we not give
lt ; them notice that they did not conform to
d \ the rule, at the time when they brought
' 7e provisions, and performed our coaftiug fer
j viee ? Ought men then so well received, to
c . ! exped, all at once, in 11s to find enemies,
, e ' without a declaration of war ?
le j The mcafure. is contradißory ; the Ameri
-9f can captain who is/ortunatf toen
0f ter our ports, without meeting our corsairs,
aj is received there like a friead: but if he has
n . the misfortune to meet them, he is captured
- e and condemned ; thus it is sometimes the iu
f- terval of an hour and chance which decides
■U his treatment !
Finally it is inefficient; it ought to hinder
fraud, and it will only serve the better to
cover it. The truly guilty will have been
, y the firft to shelter themselves ; and even the
innocent will not have been exposed to it
a _ much longer. The decree is so generally
,y kuown wow, that every one takes care to
~ conform to it; it will Coop have only the bad
r j! success of having carried ruin and desolation
if. inio a great number of Ametiean families ;
er of having finifhed the losses of some of our
or own colonists who had laden she wrecks of
n . their fortunes on board the csptured vessels;
of having mutilated the fortunes of many
at merchants of Holland, Hamburg, Bremen
and others of our allies, to whom these vef
ill fcls were carryingthereturns of their debtors
, m who will have no more means of paying
lr . them ; in fine of alienating and reftorirTg to
onr enemies, perhaps tor a generation, all
ot the affeaion of a nation, a great part oi
of which was sincerely devoted to us.
Ah ! our brave corsairs have no reed of
to this fatal encouragement to search our real
~ enemies with ardour and intrepidity, and
- 3 well may the captains, as well as their own
•r'. ers and Stockholders, lament a regulation so
r j_ contrary to their way of thinking, but to
n _ which they cannot refufe to conform.
cs Such are, Citizens Reprcfcntatives, our
jl s sentiments on the objedt of the_ petition
which 1 has been presented to you ; they dif
j]s fer too much from those of the petitioners
nt not to be msinifefted.
ho Finally, we join our prayer to theirs, that
you will weigh in your wisdom the measures
us .to betaken to prevent a rupture_ between
n- two people made to be ftriftly united, and
fes (r). The French merchants experienced pr cife^y
he the Inline fate in America, at the clofc 0) the Ameri
can Revolution. Many complaints were likewise
U » ma de there of bad fuppliei but never did an A
le - roerkan thinlt of actufmg the lovernment of the
ht faults or had faith of individuals,
ey (J ) TheCOngref?, by an ait of lath of Fehru
hv ary 1 794 voted them 15,000 dots; The fubferipti
r on.ilfthe inhabitants ot New-York, amounted to
"' C do Is; thofc of Philadelphia futpaffed, it is
fuid that funi, bi*t wc are not certain of it, and we
eil would affirm only established fadU; Baltimore and
ey Chariett R likewise contributed CQiifideravle funis.
nd (3-) ari - h *■
to re-e(tablifh a fyaem of uniform cor. i Fr;
which may terminate', with the csmplaims wit
of the two Governments, the inquietudes the
and uncertainties of the governed. thi
Nantes, 30 Ther miliar, i 7>\ l ; -
*l9l-) 5 y :ar of ttfßepublic. 3 thi
■ tl*
%\ yi <ga?c«c.
PHI LJ D E'± PH/ A ,
riTßso.vy. EVENING, decep.TSEZ ti.
On fday last General James LloV'd
was ele£led by the Legi(lature of Marylancl 011
Scaator of the United States, in she place
ox John Henry Esq. elefled L»:.v;rnor of , a
that Slate. J l '
•' a} 1 >■ 1 ■- tj(;
PRICE OF S'TOC|S,
Philadelphia, 121b fytc. jjj9>7v (
6 per Cef.t. ; »■/"•
j j-cr Ort. , 10/16 111
Deferred 6 per Certt. ' *!>/£"•• ' * 'Si
BANK United States, 16 pcr tt. advance.
—— I'ennfylvania, li to iS de.i-j
North America, JO do. „
Ipfurance Co. Pennfylvanis, fharcs z> per etrit. ~
N. A. (hares 50 dc. ''l
-••• - |
LONDON, October 2. J ~
DUEI.
Yesterday morning a meeting took place p
in Hyde-Park' between Cel. Fitzgerald, and f t
the Hon. Col. King, brother to the j
young lady whose eloptttwnt has been for t |
some davs the principal topic of converfati- ,|
on in the metropolis.—After difeharoing j
three cases of pistols each without efte£l,Col. f]
F very quietly put on his great'coat, v
and left the field : neither party, We under- a
(land, had any more ammunition, which was e
the occasion of their parting ia the above
manner ; we may therefore expeSbto hear n
fomethitig more of it. ) r
Relative to this event*, a morning paper j
gives the following particulars a
The unhappy c»ufe of this meeting isTe- -{.
cent In the public mind. Coiy-R. 'K. came p
to town from Ireland on Friiliylartj' tff tie- t
m'and fatisfaftion for an irreparable injWy'to
his family. ;
Major W. his second, -rtith much difficul- ]
ty, obtained an interview with Col. F. to j
whom he delivered a nieffage from Col. K. g
intimating that he came to punish him for r
the greatell violation of the principles of B
honor and decorum ; th® l filler, th* (
Hon, Miss K. aHd family, had sustained the ]
greatest outrage and perfidy ; and that al- ,
though the aggreflbr was not entitled to the {
honorable claims of society, yet that he
fhouldhave an opportunity of making a de
fence in the fifcld. Col. F. without the ,
smallest hesitation, accepted the challenge, ,
and the contest terminated as we have alrea- ,
dy described. " i
As soon as the affair had transpired, Col. ,
Stephens ordered Col. F. to be pirt under (
arrest.
Col. K. it the brother of the unfortu
nate young lady who was lately feducedfrom
her mother'#, and about whose ftofy 'the
. public tias for feme weeks boqn so conver
sant.
Lord Kingfborongh, and his brother -
i George King, arrived on Thurfidqy m
town from Ireland. The latter attended at
the Mount Coffee-houfe on Friday
. and part of Saturday, in hopes of n?ee\ing
, with Col. F.
t The Nobleman alluded to, when a school
boy, married the only daughter of a Col.
, Fitzgerald, by wfobm he obtained an estate
of 20,0001. a year. His lordfiiip hij a
humerous family, and his eldert daughter is
Countess of Mountcafhel. Col. K. fervid
the greater of the lafl wat in America.
The relatives of the young lady, as may
g be naturally supposed, are in the mod de
] plorable (late of mind. They have expeti
enced an unpardonable breach cf hofp.tali
-5 ty —The charafter of a very amiable daugh
ter has been left to the bitter' aggravation
r of misfortune—and the family name, always
0 high in the records of honor, exposed to the
n tongue of wanton calumny.
' NAVAL INTELLIGENCE,
y Plymouth-Dock, —Arrived
0 L'lndien French privateer, to his ma
-41. jefty's (hips Phaeton, Stag :
n She is pierced for, 20 lws only 18
; mounted ; (he was commapdefl by citizen
r Foutrie, and had 15P men : was cap
>f tured in the B<iy of Biscay on the 26th of
;; last rponth, was fitted »\)t Granville,
y and fails well ; (he was formerly called the
n Ned, a Gnineaman, belonging to Liverpool,
r- Arrived L'Unite of 36 guns, captain
s Rowley, with the piifoners taken out of the
5 above privateer ; and Adamant, a re-cap
o tured Weft-Indiaman, which had been cap-
II tured by L'lndien, with two others, viz.
>1 the Albion and Antigua ; and it is thought
they are rc-captured, as an Englifi man »f
•f war was seen chafing them ; they were fe
d parated from the last convoy which arrived,
d by a heavy gale of wind.
1- L'Unite came through Lord Bridport's
o fleet yesterday, which was cruizing between
o U(hant and Scilly, all well.
ir Admiral Duncan's fleet arrived at Yar
n mouth Roads on Monday last, from a cruize
f- off the Texel. Several of the (hips have
r» sustained much damage by the .ljeavy
gales { but the crews are alf in good health,
tt and in the moll ftpte of
■s tion. Tlje Dutch fleet (Ulj.xcmaifis in the
n Textl, and it is the admiral Dun
d can that they are not put to fta.
f- The matter of an American veffet arrived
fc at Cow«s from Amsterdam, stateS, that when
{ - he left the Texel 011 the 23d nit. 16 fail of
1C (I,,'ps, from 50 to 74 guns,/were,laving in
the Texel, with four brigs and 12 frigates
:i- and 44 gun (hips ; and in the Dsep a new
to gun (hip, the Wafhingtoa, with a fri
is gate and one other vessel; that they were
"j all manned and ready for fta ; but that the
„ Dutch admiral, on being ordered out, rr.uch
about the time the late difturbauees in
Frsnce broke ; out, refnfed to go to f<;a dat
without fonie reitiforcertien;,' alledging that (lia
the Eoglifti fleet carried five guns to his , (let
three. The troops, except about 4000, dq
bad disembarked from the trhnfportl about
the, 2ct.11 ult. but the tranfperts rgmained | dr«
tiK-re. ' | fi><
'
The mailer of a Danifli (hip which left jyo
the T: xel on the 26th ult. dates, that in j6u
I'Onfequewce of some serious mifunderftand
iag -between the Dutch and French, the
Dutch sailors liad refufed to go to sea when
the Admiral made the signal to weigh ; up- w?
:on wh?ch mod; of the officers had their bag- ad
t page sent on (hore, and vtty soon after they m;
fn!!awi;d it themfe'.ves. Their transports mi
have been removed from the outward to the fid
ijtntr road, and the troops are disembarked. w,i
1 Vice-Admiral Sir John Orde left town m<
for Portsmouth, to takp command of the re- fti
inforcement destined for the fleet of Lord er
St. Vincent. te
en
On the 29th ult. Rear-Admiral Sir Hugh an
Christian, who is about to fail for the Cape to
of Good Hope, to succeed Admiral Prin- cc
gle, hoi(le4.his flag in Cowes Road on board m
La Virginie frigate, capt. Hunt. gi
er
In the note which the Ottoman Porte has : m
prefentcd to the Trench Direftory, they v(
(late that the Emperor, supported by hisal- pi
liance with England and Russia, will afford rs
the mefi formidable means for depriving
them vf their European provinces ; that the
Black Siea will be covered with Ruffian
fleets, and the White Sea with the trading tl
veffelt of the Emperor ; that Albania b'
and Bofuia, which are without fortified plae- d
es, will be exposed to the firft attempt a- w
gainst them ; that the republic of Ragufa J
mull unite with the Emperor, and that Epi- n
rus, Macedonia", Theffaly, Sc:. as far as the (1
Morea, will be exposed to the fame danger ; o
apd, laflly, that the French commerce will
be materially injured by the facility of ex- r
porta from Hungary and Dalmatia, rather m
than from the Mediterranean.
On the id infl. his majesty's (hip Bril
liant, capt. Black\vood, chafed and ran 011
fhorc on Jedderland, between North Bergen
and the of Norway, L'lntrepid brig, ;
/ mounting 20 guns, nine and fix pounders,
and 150 men, where (he bi'ged, and was
1 defcrted by the crew ; also the Chasseur
lugger, mounting 12 four pounders and 50
' men, ran on (hore en the rocks, and was de- [
'' ferted by the crew.
The bouncing Coti at the Weft End of
the Town, who lately (ludied ft much the
• gratification of the amorous falatt #f her li
■ tied mafler, has loft her place, in consequence
of her giving too much way to the luxuriant
• desires of the gallant Baronet.
By this daiy's Mail.
NEW-YORK, December 11.
Thfi £ritifhj>acket, Carteret, captain ~Tay lor
failed from this port for Falmouth, with the
mail, on Friday last.
1 Thefon and fon-in-lav) of Sir John Teraple
' viz. Gren'oille Temple, and William Palmer,
Efjuires, two Britijh officers w;nt passengers
I in this ihffcl, to join their rtfpeSive regiments in
I 1 ngland.
ARRIVED.
, a Brig Prosper H:fpanio!a i
Cleopatra Havanna'a j
d Schr. Swift . Jamaica ;
U
Y Eftrar of a letter from an American in France ;
dated Havre, the 12th of Sept.
" /bout 3 days ago, the council of five ;
hundred declared the arrcte of the IS 'ft Ven- \
tofe, againjl American veffe's, a goodvne ; and i
n the reporter took upon himfelf to fay two thirds
' s of ourJhips_ and cargoes were Englifb property
ie and that the pafports of the President were
lublicly fold in England for Enghjhfhips :
How he got the information, or how well
founded,you, at the d'JUnceyou arefrom French
d power, can conjecture as well as myfelf—f jr my
i- own part, tho as refpeils French affairs I ne
: ver give an opinion, yet, when our own coun
-8 try is concerned, I fee no reafonto be so very
II delicate—it is thus that / venture to fay that I
>- much doubt whether the reception of the com
>f mijftttners will be more favorable than that of
:, Mr. Pinciney. Had they arrived two months
ie ago, perhaps matters refpeSing America, might
I. have gone right—■but I now fear they have
11 pajfed the Rubicon.''The cargo as the Juliana
ie was publicly fold here a few day* ago ; all
3- her papers were Jtgned by the French consul at
3- Baltimore, before her departure, but the want
1. of a Role d'JJquipage was judged fufficient to
it condemn her : the captain and crew were com
as mitted to close prison for many days Many
e- American vejfels have been condemned towards
1, Nan/% and Brejl, for the fame reafon —those
who have been acquitted will all be lofl on the
's appeal."
:n
BOSTON, December 5.
£xtraS from the Answer of the Senate of
ir- New-Hampshire, to the Governor's Speech.
ze " Convinced that our national government
ve is formed on the surest basis of liberty; that
»y the majority ought to rule, thaj we ha •; an
h, opportunity as often as we can rationally
la* wish to change and ele£l our rukrs, we view
he it as the palladium of our rights and entitled
ii- to our firmed support.
:a. " Although jealously is a lively trait in a
political charader, yet when very fcrupu
ed loufly exercised towards the adminiftraters
en of government, it may tend to lesson the
of confidence of a people in their rulers—and
in we view with regret and indignation the fac
tes tious clamour for the deftruflioti of our
ew peace and government, and conceive its on
:ri- ly source to be the dregs of fuccefiive fo
?re reign anarchy, operating on the weak and
he vicious.
ich We must ferifibly feel the private injury
iri and national indignity fuffered in th? depr?"
elation on our navigation aivd commerce, ?>«'?
fell cheerfiilfy actjuiefce. the node of in.
clemiiity our national government may
dopt - . ■; ■ ■
" The promotion of literature, the re
dressing public grievances; and the ena4l?;i£
fuel) laws as th j piftsiic good may
together with the other fubje&s contained i:j
your Excelleiicy'scomrnunicatiqiis will 'meet
fiur zealous attention." v;;'-r]
. , —, ■
Extra 3 from the Anfivcr of the House.
" As the eonflitution of that government
was framed by-our wisest and be ft men, was
adopted after a candid discussion, and upon
mature deliberation, without yiolence ur tu
mult, it belongs to us to repose proper con
fidence in the officers of our own choice, and
willingly afford effeftive aid to that govern
ment which we have inllitutcd for the com
mon good; the beneficial effedts of the con
stitution of the United States has been gen
erally felt, and acknowledged to be far grea
ter than was at firft expected. A spirit of
enquiry into the principles of a government
and the mode of its adminiilration pertains
to a fiee people: But when that spirit be
comes intemperate, and its design is to pro
mote opposition, to divide and weaken the
government, it may embolden foreign pow
ers to invade our rights, anc embarrass the
measures neceflary to ObtainFedpefs—whate
ver such a restless and uneasy tamper ap
pears, we will lend our firra'elt aid to difcoit
rage and correft it." \
COLUMBIA, (S..C-) Nov. 24.
A gentleman from Greenvill,?, who left
there the 18th inil. informs us, that Ro
bert Maxvvrll, £fq. Sheriff of Washington!
diftrift, died 011 Friday the 17th inil. of the
wounds he on the 9th ; and that
Jofiah Andrew, Max,Se!d, and 'Jc feph Ken
nedy* were taken up and committed to Wa
fhirigton g3ol on the fame day, on suspicion
of having been concerned in affaflaati'Qg
Mr. Maxwell, Cnce which they have been
removed to Cambridge.
NEW THEATRE M
, TO-MORROW EVENING,
, DECEMBER 13,
Will be presented, a New COMEDY, (never j-er
foi med in this city) called,
; WIVES AS THEY WERE.
r AND,
3 MAIDS AS THEY ARE.
. [Written by Mrs. Inchbald, authored of Every
One Has His Fault, Such Things Are, &c.]
Sir William Dofrillon Mr. Harwood
f Lord Priory Mr. Warren
c Sir George Evelyn Mr. Moreton
Mr. Norberry Mr. Taylor
Mr. Bronzely Mr. Bernard
t Nabfon Mr. Warrell
Oliver Mr. Bliffet
Goaler Mr. Sully
John Mr. T. Warrell
James Mr. Warrell,ju.
Servants—Messrs. Lavancy, Lafferty, See,
Mifd Dorrillon Mrs. Merry
Lady Mary Raffle Mrs. Oldmixon
r Lady Priory Mrs. Morn's
Honfe-keeper Mrs. Do£lor
To xrhich will be juMed, a Musical Drama,
twi acts, called,
■'< THE ADOPTED CHILD.
r ' Sir Beitram Mr. Warren
Michael Mr. Cooper
" Record Mr. Francis
Spruce Mr. Warrell, jun, *
Le Sage Mr. Darley
Boy Miss L'Eftrangc
Clara Mrs. Warrell
! a | Nelly Mrs. Oldmixotj
Lucy Mrs. Francis
| On Frrday, the celebrated Cfinic Opera of
ct the HIGHLAND REEL —-with entertainments.
| Box, one Dollar ; Pit, thr-"e quarters of a DoL
ve ; lar ; and Galkry. half a Dollar.
»- ' £F The door s °f 'be ' h»atre will open at five,
7 1! and the curtain rife precisely at fit o'clock.
. | Places lor the Boxes to be taken at the Office in
the front of the Theatre, from 10 till 1 oVlock,
'y and from 10 till 4on the days <jf performance.
■re Tickets to behad at l-J.and Rice's book-flore,
. No. .JO Markec-ftreat, and at the Office adjoining
Jj the rrfAT SKSVVBUCA !
ch Ju(t Imported,
wjf AndforSaJeat William Priest man's,
w- Nq. 129, South Front Street,
n- New door to th# CuHom House, a large a (Tort*
,-y tn«ot of law priced $i yer Watches—-confifl'nr of
j ph|n, capt. capt an.t jewcllV,, (lope andfVconds;
Gold VVarches by Mudge, Ellicct, Holmes, Tre
m" tent, See. A true-Keeper by Arnold-—Diamond
of and Pvarl fifrjs and jackets, some plated candle*
'hs tlejranl double barrel'd guns by Mortimer,
do. by Parker, duelling pistols by Trirably, a re
fleiting ujefcope, by Rcbright, a box •! patent
medicine, 6J lbs of Scotch thread, ad»>z;nof tra»
na vtfllisg caps, and a fmail coileclion of Tcarcc vaiu
aft able books.
at December n daw
mt to Public Sales of India Goods
at New-York,
Will commence on Monday the 18th inft,
by A. L. Bleeker if? Sons ;
ofe The cargo as thefhip Swift, Pierre tie Pegfler,
he Commander,jufi arrived from Calcutta, on
a credit of 2, 4, and 6 months
Conlifting of 279 bales of.the following ar»
tides :
of Manikpocc .
■h, Kirabod
nt }• "Baftas.
iat Aduee
an Eniertie
Uy Patna
;w Jetlepoce
cd Ouddee Cofacs
Tigerry Guzzenas
[i a Beeboorn Gurrahs
ju- Blue Guineas
sn-s Guillaudendiary Handkft,
;he Doreas
ind Paua MulmulJ
ac- Tanda Goflaes
jur s Santipore Muslins
on- Kermich<;e Romals
so- Chauderconah Niyanfook &
ind Bandanoe H?jidkerchiefs
Th; above Goods to be fold without tlia
nry fm-i'ieft reserve.
>r?- P-iiladelphi.-, De®. 12, *dstA farm for sale,
IN Perth Amboy in the state of New-Jet fey, I
of four hundred a.-res, including a proper
proportion of meadow, of arable sr.d wood
land, ami fait mar(h : fhereis on the pre'n.ifcs,
a good apple orchard, and a vjriety of other
fruit trees, it is well watered with fpri'-gs and
brooks, it is bounded on two fides with navi
gable waters and has a good mill site, its nitra
tion is hi—lthy and pieplant, rornnna.r.ding A
view of the navigation of Ferth Arnbuy au<J its
environs, and convenient to the fined fifh and
oysters in their proper fealon, it abounds with
natural manure fram which, with the advanta
ges ol the fait mat Oi by applying the hay there
fiotn to the keeping of ltock, may at a finall
expense, be enriched to a great degree and ren
dered one of the firft grazing farms in the Rate ,
ij is well calculated for a farmer or a gentle
man's feat, having several eligible situs for
building. This farm will be foltj together or
divided, as may suit a purc't)!lfer, at private
sale, or if not fold, will be set up at public auc
tion on Tuesday the nineteenth day of Decem
ber n. v. , the hwnfe of Roiert Itattoone, inn
keeper in Perth Amboy, at eleven o'clock in
the forenoon. Any perion inclining to purchase j
rosy view the premil'e» by application to J'obn j
or Matthias Hai/ieJ at Perth Amboy, 1 from ;
wjtctn or from the Host. "Jonathan Dayton, Esq. j
fp-aker of the house if reprefrntatives of the !
United States now in Philadelphia, trom Mat- J
thins Wii&*mfon,]\in. efq. or Mr. Samuel Smith ,
at Elizabeth-To-vn further information may be J
obtained, — and who are pofleffed of maps of
the fame.
Perth Amboy, Nov. j6, J797.
25 —-t-odtißD *
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, piopofing to tontraJt hii buli
ncls. offers this Eftjte for sale, on moderate .
term?. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces, ;
a eumplete Boreing Machine, and a very eood grift
Mill, with two P»ir ot (lines ; also a good Forgr, all
in per kit repair, as arc all the Water Works connect
ed with these various branches- The Air Furnaces
were lately built for the purpose of calling Cannon
for this Sute.—There are about two thousand acres
of Land, one half of which is under wood, the other |
very line arable Land, producing the bed Hay and
Pafiure. The Cannon lately manul»f:turcd th-re, »
tally proves the excellency of the metal, w+iich is j
lupe'ior to.any in this country, ami probably, equal
lu any in the world ; Cur not one of <s\ty-niue guns
lately mide, although fomc of the 24 were bored
111*032 pounrlers, have talUd on proving. The fiiu
jrion 15 very eligible, particularly for this branch ot
manufaflure, and a place ot arms lying in the state
of Conneflirtit.Vit.d only 30 miles from several land*
ing 3 on the Kudfon's river, and having every advan
tage that can retult from a plenty of water issuing
from a large tiaturaf pond, very near the Furnace,
and whi .h may be converted into a variety of other
ufeful pttrpofes. Ihe purchaser can be accommodat
ed with all theftoekand utenfili, and have pofTcflion
on or belora the fifll of June next, and preparation
mav be made in theracantiraefor going into Blall im
mediately thereafter, for every part will be delivered
in good order,swith some coal, Ote, &c. &c. For
te™>, apply to Mr. Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
phia David Brook*, t r %. one of the Reprefedtatives
in Congress for this State ; Mr, Wattiman, on
thepremires, or to the p'ootietoj in, New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON.
Dee >■ t ->feaw|f
Hbufe and Lots, in Bordentewn.
T*o BE SOLD, a handfomc two story House.
with the Lot on which it is ere&ed, situated
about the midjUe of the beautiful and healthy
Village of Btrdentown. The house is forty two
feet front, and io neat order. The lot contains
one acre, and is one hundred feet on tfce main
street, and extends with the fame breadth to-baak
street. Also, a large Lot, containing nearly four
acre",, frparated ftim the former by back street.
One third only of the purchase money will be re
quited upon executing a deed, and for the re
mainder, fach credit will be given ,is the purchase
ermaychufe. This property will be fold fret •-
all incumbrances, and an indisputable title givenf
Fof farther particulars enquire eithrr of Dr.
Wrlliam Burner, rrlidiug in liordentowc, near,
the premiies, who will Ibew the fame, or of
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, no. 144, Market-street,
December a. jawif
Real Kftate for Sale,
A PLANTATION, in a healthy and good C
jtx tuation on Cheller Creek, in Middleton
Townthtp, Delaware County, containing 119'
acres, upwards of jo acres of which are wood
land, well timb»red ; the remainder plough land
and watered meadow—of the latter, uiany more
acres can be made at a small expence. There are
on laid premifea, a good orchard of best grafted
fruit, a honfe, with a spring near the door, a frame
barn with flabling under, and a log tencmont on
one part of said place.——Any perfofl inclining
to purchase, may view the premises by applying
to Wm. Vennbll, on said farm, and know the
terms by applying to Jonathan Pennell, in the
borough of Chester.
November ai. 3 C eod
To be fold,)
An ELEGANT COUNTRY SKAT, contain
ing .6 acres and 40 perches, with a neat two
story brick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, &c. on the Irish traft lane, in the
towrrfhrp of Moyamanling, about one tsili from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be made known upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette. •
The improvements upon this phicc, for taste and
elegance, stand unrivalled.
December r. dtf
All Perlbns who are indebted to
the estate William Heysham, fen. of Phila
delphia, deceased, are requested to make speedy
payment; and those who have any demands a-
faid elUte, will please to present them, pro
perly attcCed, to ;he fubferibers.
William Hcytham, ~t
Robert Hcyjham. J- Executors.
Francis Beiues Sayre, J
novemicr 6. "w 4 w
~ LAW BOOKS,
Latest London and Dublin Editions.
fl. iff P. RICE, Booksellers,
No. 16, South Second, and. No. 50, Market street,
HAVE just received by the late arrivals Irom
London and Dublin, theur spring importa
tion, confiftingef a -variety of the latest and most
approved Law Books, which, added to those alrea
dy on hand, formsthe moftextenfive coHedlionev
er offered for sale in this country. Theytheiefore
beg leave to notice, that from the nature of their
conneflionsin Dublin, they are enabled t(» feillrilh
edition* (as they have hitherto done) at the very
lowed prices. The following are ammig the latest
publications-
Vefey, ju.i'rs Reports in Chancery, % \J.t.
Peake's Cases at Nisi Priijs; Ridgeway's Reyorts
in the time of Lord Hardwicka ; Floyer's Procters
Pra&ice in the Ecclefuftic J Courts ; Barton's
Treatise on a Suit in Equity; Tidd's Pra&ice of
the Court of King's Bench in Personal ASions, 1
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
on Uses ; modern Reports, l» vols. London edi
" H. and P. Rict expetft to receive by the firft ar
rival from New-York the d*-- vol. complete of
Purnfordand East's Reports, the id part of Gil
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, anda number of
new publications. . .
june »6.
A person well acquainted with
the theory and pr ice of bftok-kee/i who h Veen
m lay year# engaged in bufinefstor hilttfeU ad d other ,
would to bseniptov'fc-l, cither »» agent,
or faftor; or in poQing books ; {lrftii'ig unfi-itled
accounts ; or in executing any otlie. kind of writ
ing, in French or En^li»ii,
A note addreflcd to J. A. and left at this office,
will be pu{i&uaMy attcnd«d to.
novem'oer 36.
Thomas Randall,
PRESENTS his refpe«£l'. to his Friends, and the
Public in general, informs them that he hasopensd
anOfflcs, at his house, No. 88, Spruce ftrt;c!t, for
the purpofcof tranfailing-bufiuefe in the line of
Commiflion and Agency , cdile&ing and out
(landing claims in of the United States —r
He flatters himfelf, th;itfrom his long residence in
this country and a general knowledge ©fit, hisfer
cices will be found Worthy the nor ice of thof« who
may pltafe to conlic'.e to him the management of
any of their concerns.
N* B. Security given where required.
I tth 1110 14 3tawtf
FOR SALE,
By the Subscriber, at his Store, No. 75, Smooth
Water-street, ,
A general assortment of China
Ware
Black and coloured Sattins
Do. do. Lsteftrings
Do. d«. Handkerchiefs
. Do. do. fewintr Silks
Imperial and Hyson Ten
Long and Ihort Nankeens
Quick Silver, in tubs
Holland Gin, in pipes
AfTorted Glass Ware, in cases
White andbrown HavannaSugars, in boxes
MolalTes, in hoglheadi
St. Croiz Rum and sugar, in do.
London particular Madeira Wine
Sherry and Malaga Wines, in quarter calks
Red, yellow and pale Barks, in chests
Logwood, &c. &c.
7.—tu&f4W JOSEPH SIMS.
For Sale, by the Package,
For cash, or good notes at sixty or ninety days,
viz.
Book and Jaconet Muflini plain *)
stripes, and Checks j , •'
. , ~ . .1 AllartCd in
do. do. Tamboured J> ,
do. Ladies handkerchiefs, & | ' '
gentlemen's neck do. j
Jaconet chintz muslin for home and the Weft
India market, Pullicote and linen handkerchiefs,
for do. do printed do. do. common purple and
chintz shawls.
The above goods entitled to drawback on ex
portation. Also a few scotch cambrkks and an
aflurtmeut of muslin by the piece.
The whole of the above beiag a coufignment
from the manufacturers in Britain.
To be seen at William Blackburn's
Office, No. 64, South Second Street.
Nov. 6. lawtf.
NOTICE. ~
THE Stockholders of the Bank of the Uuited
States, are informed that according to the
flatute of Incorporation a general ElMlion for
twenty five Direflors will be held at the Bank
of the United States in tiie City of Philadelphia,
on Mon.lay the (irll day of January next at ten
o'clock in the forenoon.
And purfuaiit to the Eleventh fewiion of the
Bye Laws the Stockholders of the said Bank
arc her«by notifled to artemhle in general Meet
ing at the fame place on Tuesday the second
day of January next at five o'clock in the E
vening.
By order of the Board of dii e ftors,
G. SIMPSON, Cafliier.
Second fundamental Article.
Not more than three * .urths of tne Direflors
in.ofike, exclusive of the Prelident, shall be e-
Isgiblefor the next fucceediiig year, but the
Diretilor who (hall be Prelident at the time of an
Eleflion alwayibe rc-eleiltd.
Philadelphia, nav.18.1797;, ftE
NOTICE.
To holders of JAMES GREENLEAFr
and EDWARD FOX'S Engagements
IN consequence of many having been prevent
ed, from late unavoidable circumstances from
obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to former
notice. The Trullees now inform them, they
are ready to ifTue the fame to those who may ap
ply within sixty days, at No. 8 Chefnut Strret,
and those who do not, will be canfidercd as re
linqui(hi»y their claim on the Aggregate Fund
■provided rer their payment.
HENRY PRATT,
THOMAS W. FRANCI,
JOHN MILLER, JUN.
JOHN ASHLE Y,
JACOB BAKER.
npnemi'er t J3. tuth&fim.
NOTICE.
THE partßCrlhip between John Instoni and
Jame« Bacon, under the firm of loftone and
Bacon, is this day dilfolved by mutual consent.
All person? who lland indebted to said firm are
requested to make immediate payment of their
refpe'&ive accounti, to John Skt»jn, on Landen
burgcr's wharf, who is duly authorised to receive
the fame ; and all perfoiis havintr any demands a
gainst the said firm, are desired to bring in their
accorints immediately to him for settlement.
John Jnjlone,
James Bacon.
November io. eodtf
For Sale by the Subscriber,
White Plattillas
Brown Hollands
White Sheetings
Dowlaifes
Silesia bordered Handkerchiefs
Striped Siamonfes
Black Ribbona, No. 3 and 4
, Glass Tumblers, and Looking Glafles, in
in cases, &c. &c.
George Pennock.
November 6. eod } w
FOR SALET"
By BENJAMIN CLARK^
No. 55, the corner of Chefnut and Front llreetr,
A large quantity of Clocks and
Watches. Also, a general assortment of Tools,
Eiles and Materials, copfifting of Clock Movt
ments, eight day and thirty hour brass piniortl
and f«rge work; Bells, clock and watch Dials,
Sjfringi, Hands, Giaffes," Pumice Stone, Emery,
Rotten Stone, Cat Gut; bench, Gaiwi and. tail
Vices; Turns, Plierß,Chains, * ilh,K.eys, &c. &c.
Apprentices Wanted,
november 3. f&tutf
The History of Pennsylvania,
» Bv ROBERT PROUD,
IS now in the press, and will be ptiblifhed,
with all convenicrit expedition, by Zt,CHA
RI AH POULSON, jun. No. Bit, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where ftibfcriptions will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed proposals, until the
work is ready for the fubferibers.
July 18. k aawtf
EngU(h Grammar, .
Th: second edition, with improvement],
A DAP TED to the different cUffcs of learners;
with an appendix, containing ru'cs and r>b
f-rvatioris for alfifcirg the more advanced \
• to "Write with nerfpiruity and accuracy,
By LINDLEY MURRAY.
" This is a publication of much, merit, and fully .
answers the profeffiotvs in the Title. The appen- (
<lix contains tome of the heft rules for writing e- |
legawjy, and with propriety, that we recollcit to
have ken." *
Monthly Rcviciv, July 1796.
" This Grammar is,,on many accounts entitled
'to commehdatoiy nctice, its materials have been '
carefully and judiciously feleded ; its arrangement '
is distinct and well adapt«d to the purpose of in- '
. (ViiSion and its is firajile, pcrfpicuOus
aftd accurate, Ucl"
See toe character at large in the Analytical
- :
Englilh Exercises,
, Adapted' to the Grammar lately publHhed by
Lindloy Mjirnty, confuting of exemplification of
parts of fpccch, inftaiicesof salsa orthography,
viplatiorwef the rules of fyn;ax, defers in punc
tujtiop, and violations ctf the rules refpeding 1
pqrfpicuityisnd accuracy, designed f»r the benefit 1
of,prwate learners, as well as for theufe of schools. I
"W« have been much pleased with the perufil ]
<rf these Exercises, 'I hty occupy witbdillinguifh- 1
I'd excellence a mod important place in the fciencc
.of the English language; and as such, we can
warmly recommend them to the Teachers of
Schools, as well as to all those who are desirous of
attaining corrtitnefs and precision in their native
tongue."
Monthly Review, Jnly 1797. '
The above Books are fnrfale at Josira & James
Critkshanks book (tore, No. 87, Market flreet. I
December I. 3taw2w.
n otTcl ;
ALL persons concerned are hereby notified,
that the fntifcriber intends to apply for a re
newal of the undermentioned loft certificates of !
Stock in the Bank of the United States—He for-,
warded them under cover of a letter addrefled to
John Anfley.of London,by the ship Bacchus,capt.
George, which left this port in June lait for Lon
don. But that ship laving been captured on her
'pafiage indfent to France, the above letter and m
clofures have failed in th«r dsflination.
Three cejrpficates, viz.
No?." 263*5,
four (hares, dated January lftj 1797, and
issued in tfifc name of Henry Grace, of Tot
tenham Highcrofs, Gr«at Britain.
ZACCHEUS COLLINS.
MrvefflSer 8. 2aw6w
Wanted, to Hire,
A Large and convenient HOUSE, in or near
the centre of the city—for which a generous
rent will be given ; to be taken for a year, or op
more for a longer term. Inquire of tha Printer.
Oft. 17. eotf
A Compting House to let.
A Molt convenient Compting House is now for
hire on Roft's WlUrf, directly over the-arch.
For terms, apply to
Samuel Bred, jun.
No. 89, south Third street.
Where may he bad,
A few bales of Ravens Duck, and about 100
pieces of stout Canvass; a final! quantity of Mace,
and,fome high proof Brandy ; Sherry Wine, Cho
colS'e in boxes, Window Gtafs of various sizes
and dimensions. Dec. I —eo6t
Samuel & Micrs Fiftier,
akv now orcaiNa,
AT W»tek*uife, No. aj, Dock Strsec, a frefia
assortment of Wwkn and other goods, Suitable to
the season, received by the lade arrivals from Eng
land. . j
i%ey have alfe fir Sate,
Lisbon
Sherry'^ and ( I ""P ! P«» hhJ> - and lUJrter1 UJrter
Port.Winfs, J .
Assorted queen'i ware iterates, &c.
lotkme- aid. . diw^tawjw.
James C. tft Samuel W. Fiflier,
AT THE IS STORE,
No. 13, corner of Arch and Front streets,
BJyi FOR SJtIE,
Cotton and worded Hosiery in trunks, assorted
A few bales red, white, and yellow Flannels
Ditto futt romall Handkerchiefs
Ditto Pullicat silk ditto
Ditto Pondicherry and Madrafe ditto
Ditto Gurrahs ,
Bengal black Taffcties
4.000 pieces Nankeens, and
Few chests best Hyson Tea
Alfa —1500 boxes Iteft London Window Glass,
from 8 by 6, to 19 by 14—-and 15 hhds. Glass
Ware, aflbrted, which they Will dilpofe of cheapdr
than any in the city.
noymher »8, gawtf
Imported (via New York) on the
(hip Hero, from Madras and Calcutta, and for
sale by the fubferiber, at No. 61, Chefnut iireet,
between Second and Third Streets, the iollow
ing articles-** ...
. Charconna Dorens
Chintz and Calicoes Dacca worked muslins
Gillis RomaW Bandannoes
Nillas Sc Penfiafoes Chafla Romalr-
Blue cloth Hair ribbon
MullMullhatikerchlefs Palempores
Patna do. panares Opium
Lrffcr Cardimum Seeds.
Samuel W'ticox,
november 27 tuths4w
FOR SALE, bi
Joseph Anthony £sf Co.
No. J, Ghefnut Street,
A cargo of choice Bourdean*Brandy, ift and 2d
proof, just landed
ajo bales of Bourbon cotton of a superior quality
9 do. Jurat, do do
A quantity of heavy black pepper in bales
Bourbon Indigo of the firft quality
High proof Jamiica ipirits
Old London particular Madeira wine (In pipes &
do. market do ( qr. calks.
New England rum in hogsheads
Genuine Holland Oiti in pipes
Claret in cases
Spermaceti tandlea end '.train'J oil
Prime Boston beef
- Choice Halifax Saloxuvin barrels and half barrels
D». ■ Hnjrsfeig in dt> do
Bell Boston Maekarjtiiir qartels of the fall fare.
New-&)glat)d MwTnen,
A few ttfns of HutfA - cordage
Ruflia. Lather beds
Clover artSTUnotliy feed in
l.ong Whale-bone
No 1, a,'ahd 3, Boflon fail duck
A few chests firft quality Hyfoh tea
Carolina rite in'whole and half tierces and
An invoice of Dutch hollow glass ware.
' ivember 8. daw.
400,000 vjeight of choice 3i. Do
mingo COfFEE,
FOR SALE BY
JAMES YARD.
November diot
For Sale,
That/ wellknoum place, called FjndSGßlu's
Fit Iff
ON Nefliaminy creek. 18 miles from Pkila
ladelphia, on the New York post road, -n
containing 74 acres and 94 perche*. Upon the
pi emifes area large two fiery stone house occu- C<
pied as a tvern, and a good one story stone kit
chen, a large frame (table with a go»d threlhing "
floor, and some out buildings'—also a well of ®;
good water, and an excellent ice House. On ?!
this place is a inoft elegant fitiwtiort fora gentle
man's (eat, commanding a view »f the Neftum-
iny toitsjtindlion wiih the Delaware, and thence
acrofn to the Jersey (bore. It has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge. p
For terms apply to tft<; Ssbfc'riaer, Sa
MOXDECAI LEWIS. G
May 24- atawtf.
Far sale or to be let cm ground
rent,
A pjalucbh Lor of Ground ;
QITU ATE on'the nortb-eaft Corner of Wai-.
O nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State-
House iqu'are. This lot is fifty-one feet front '
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen 1
feet and an half on Fiftli street ; there are at
pi rfent two ("mall two (lory brick houses, and a
number of small tenements thereon. Fl
Also, for Sale,
Two three liory JBricl> Houses
With convenient (lores, wharf, &c. situate on
Water-street, between Mulberry and Saffkfrat j.
streets, containing in front on Water flreet fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east
ward nine:y-five feet, then widening to the
foutfli thirteen feet fix itlches. These hdufes -
ave the Conveyance of a public alky adjoining
on the north fide, and ate a very desirable situa
tion for a merchant, flour faflor,or others who F
may have occasion for storage of goods. This
property will he fold on very reasonable terms
forcalh. For further information apply to the
printer.
July 31. m&wtf
Jujl Publifbed,
And to b# had of Messrs. Dofcfon, Campbell,Rice, ~
Cary, and the other pricipal BookfeUprs in tHe
city,price one dollar, twmty-6*e cen(j,in boards, I
New Views of the Origin of the
arid Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, M. d.
Jane 10. *4t
School Books and "Stationary, j
W. Y OU NG,
No. 51, Second-street, corn >r of Chcfnut-ftreet,
HAS now ready for fate, a very large aijort
ment of Eitglifb, Ercnih, Latin and Greet
I SCHOOL BOOKS- Alfa, fueh elementary bosks
on Science, as are generally read in the academies
and colleges throughout the United States.
LATELY rUBLISHID,
Sheridan's Di<sHon»ry, the sixth edition, in one
large vol. 8 vo. price 3 dels.
Ditto, large 12 mo price 1 dot. 75 ets.
Ditto, common, price 1 dot. 50 cte.
All forts of drawing, packing, printing, and
writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards, Pasteboard*, I
flieatbing and blotting Papefrs; printed Blanks,
blank Books, Wax, Wtfers, and other articles, ef .
the beit quality, used in the counting house, or ]
public office,
£f Catalogues of a miscellaneous colleftion of
BOOKS, with tke price of each affixed, to be had '
by inquiring as »bove. Oil. 24—3aw6w
1 he Norfolk Mail STAGE.
' I 'Hi.? Stage furls flcm the CEOROE Tavern,
X at the corner of Second and Ardh Streets, in j
Philadelphia, every Tburfday, and Satur
day, at 3 o'clock, in the Doming aniwes at Ho
ver the firft day, at Snowhill the tccond day, at
Northampton Court House the third day, and o» J
the morning of the fourth day the passengers find
a fife and "comfortable packet to convey them to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton feiry, -
every Tucfdiy, ThUrsday and Saturday, and the
Stage starts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
Mun Jay, Wedr.efday and Friday; puts up at Snow
Hill the firft night, at Dover the 2d night, and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day.
Thediftance nn tliis route, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is So miles less than ou'any stage route
between those jflaces.
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road,
which is most excellent indeed. The proprietors
willingly engage to return th« whole fare to any
paflenger, who, after having performed this route,
will fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the fame
distance, so good a road in America.
Aiigufrxi. dtm.eotf.
City of Washington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Jmprovemtnt of the Fedetnl City.
A magnificent dwcH'mg-houfe ao,oootlo|lars,
& ca(h iQiQOo t ire fo.cdo
1 ditto 15,000 & cast 25,00® 40,000
1 ditto *5, 000 St cash 15,000 ■ 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 Sc. cafb 10,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
j cafti prize of »0,000
j do. 5,000 each,are • 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - lO,OQC
»o do. 500 • - 10,000
00 do. 100 - • 10,000
aiio d«. 50 - - 10,000
400 do. 25 - *- 10,000
i.ooJ do. ao - 20,000
15,000 do. 'o • >.50,000
16,5139 Prizes.
Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,06*
N. 8.. Tofavour those who may takc.a quan
tity of Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
tiie last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
bot on* :
And approved notes, securing payment in either
money or priies, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received for any number not less than 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery writ afford an elegant fpecinien el
she private building* to be ercited in tlxc City •!
Waibington—Two beautiful dtfigns arc already
fele&ed for the entire fronts oujjpo of the public
fquarcs; from these drawiugsit isptopofe.J toereel
twocentreand oiir corner baildings as scon aspof
fible afterkhis lott«ry Is fold, and to convey them,
whett complete, to the fortunate adventurers, ir»
the manner described in the fchemc for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduction of five per cent, will
be made to defray thenecefTary expenses of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the Natiaual Univerluy, to
be erected within the city of Washington.
•The realfecuritjesgiven for the"paym«t of
Prizes, are held by the President and two Direct
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
■ more than half the amount of the lottery.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
Tickets may be had at the Bank of Colom
bia ; of James Weft & Co.' Baltimore ; of Fcter
Oilman, Boston ; of John Hopkins, Richmond
and of Richard Walls, Cooper's Ferry. mwf
FOR SALE, J
bt the subscribers, No. 21, *
Jhe Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander, .from Bengal,
Cofjijiwg of
Baftas, of various qualities & prices
Coffees Punjum Cloths
Sanahs <guz?.y do.
Humhums C'harconn-a Dorea
Blue Cloth Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes Mylmul*
Mamoodys Check 9
Maharagonges Patsia Hhkfs.
Ginghams Mulmul do.
Guzzenas Bandijnnoss ~ <
Gurrahs Sijlerfoy
Piniafcoes , Choppa'Roraals
Saliratchys Scoty do.
Gil|ie Romals Persians of various colour*
Mock Pulicat?
400 tons SUGAR
90,000 lb. PEPPER.
Willing.t & Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges aTcnow open and exposed to file tt
that commodious Here the north weft comer of
Market and Fourth street. Nov. 10.
LANDING, r
From on board thefliip Cleopatra, Samuel Newell,*
commander, frem London,
60 tons of the belt clean Russia
HEMP
60 casks of bottled BROWN STOUT.
For Sale by the fubfcrlbers, No. ai, Penn-ilreet.
Willings s9° Francis.
Oil. 31. d
Just arrived,
From Port-au-Prince, and for Sale by the ftrt>fcri
bers, No. Pci\n-ftreet,
6/ia hogfhcad»,"\
,3% Prime Coffee
646 bags J ' k
Willings & Francis. f
Oft. 28. s
FOX SALE—by the Subscribers,
An elegant assortment of Madrafs
HANDKERCHIEFS, by the bale.
WILLINGS ii FRANCTS,
nov. ax. § Penn-ftreet.
" FOR SALET"
BY THE SUBSCRIBERS,
Madeira Wine, firft quality, in
pipes
Madeira Wine, New-York quality, ii) pipes
Lisbon WINE, in pipes
Nl'n'Xff Gs' ofthe Uteft importation, in boxes
Spanilb Wool, in Bales, suitable for Hattirs.
Wi/lings Francis,
Penn-ftreet, No. »i.
N0v..1. w&stf
A Journeyman Hair-Dresser,
WHO ii sober and steady, ai»d
his bnfinrft, rilay have immediate em
ployment, .n application to GEORGE AB
BOTT, No. 9, Chefmut-flreet. won. a 7.
eodiw. '
Imported in thefhipM an Chester,
Benjamin Shewell, Mailer,
From Bourdeanx, and for sale by the fubl'criber,
No. u Walnut Street.
Bonrdeaux Brandy
Irish market claret in cases ( Entitled to
Medoc wine, iij . do. | Dr*wb«ek.
Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatrsyd.
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quart* casks
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags 1 1
4000 bufhfls Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stf-
Peale's Museum.
THIS valuable repofi'cory of the works of Na
ture, so v well calculated to delight the mind
and enlarge thi tmderftanding, is opened daily, as
usual. It {lands in an airy and healthy fit nation,
and free from the epidemic that at prefect afflidts
the city; it may, therefore, be frcqueated viith
the greatest fafety.'
As an Aiaufement, the flndy of Nature is the
most rational and pleating : as a Science, the mod
sublime and inflru&ive. It elev.iiesthe mind and
expands the heart. They
" IVhom Nature »works can charm, •with God himfelf
" Hold, converse."
Many interring additions have lately been
made to this Mufium : ar.d the feathered tribe,
containing! variety if the most rare and beautiful
fubjeifts, is now very advantageonfly arranged.
Waxen Figures, of Men large as life (feme of them
> casts from nature) are here dressed in their proper
habits, and placed in attitudes characteristic of their
' refpeSLve nations. Here may be fae* the Nofth-
American Savage, and the Savage of South-Ameri
> cl—a laboring Chinese, and the Cbinefe Gentli
i man—the sooty African, and the Kamtfchadale—
> with feme Natives of the South Sea I (lands. The
1 imrnertfe variety and intsrefting diversity whi<h
, this MuCeum offers to the view, may bel'ecnbut
oannot be described with full effeifl,
' Price only l-4th of a dollar.
) bey t. 18. law
' Davis's Law Book Store,
I No. 319, High-Street.
GEORGE DAVIS,
BEING busied for fume time pad in prepara
tions for removing into his profent house, has
been under theneceflityof poflgnnmguntil thisday
informing the gentlemen of the Bar generally thro'
" the United States, that his spring importation of
law books is now arranged antVeady for sale, on
' termsthat he trusts will entitlehita to thalike pre
e freer.ee he has experienced for leveral years pail.
r Catalogues, combining the most varied coilec
tion ever imparted iflto this country, are pruned
r and will be delivered on application,
' June XT- 2aw
i( Boston Glass Manufa£lory.
il r r^HK citizens of the United States are hereby
y JL informed, that the manufacture of Window
c Giafs is now commerced at the Glali. House in Bef
it ton.
f. It is needless to fay any thing of the excellent
, .quality of the Boston Glaft, as it is so well known
throughout the Uuitud States.tobe in ever/ relptsS
e ) greatly superior to any ever imported from Europe.
II It will be cut to any size commonly used ; and
j. IT >ay be constantly had by applying to Charles F.
,f Kuprta, at the Ghils House.
0 Orders from the distant States to he addressed to
Mr. Samuki Gore, Court-street, Boston.
c Boston, Sept 30, 1797 O4 —Jaw6w
t. lAtJjn. Timothy and Mason, Clarlefion ; fArjfr*.
~ Hodge and Boylan, Halijax, N. C. JHejfrs. WtlUit
and 0' Conner, Norfitt ; JMr. Jiltis Price, stL y.rJr la ;
MeJJrs.Tundt and Brown, Baltimore ; Mr. Ilcpkmr,
1 . NewTTarland PAffis. Hudson 5S* Goodtjtin. Hart*
a T ford; Mr. Scymcur, Savannah ; are reqtfcjled to irifert
lie illovc once a v/eek 6 weds. The accounts tt be J'jr*
»f wiiri'dthe Editor.