cf it*-'lHil&tttQ Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
7)i; Tohn Ffmno_ N-°- Tin Che Cm it Street.
Cf'ptSJT.'f j
SA L 23 TJ AUCTION.
ri rriilriV'V O
Fnr 1) R r Cr 00D S.
Ne,
fiiitn fti)«t4hv«ti ni<
ttrl)oon . —roofman & Co. No. 65 j ,
C_ South Front-ftrtet.
(' ?or(nnon—John Connelly, Old City
». ». ) Auflinn. N0.'73 fouAi i J ront-ftreet. : . '
♦ Afternoon—William Shannon, No. , . l ..''
(. iS'3 High-street. I atio
iTedmfda, \ A ? er t nr ° n ' N °" 74 » ,u 1
' J I south rh:rd-ftreet. wifl
», C Forenoon—Edward Fox. •,
..'Urjuiiy | Afternoon—John Connelly. c j la
- . . 7 Forenoon—Williano Shannon.
' it'-V 5 Afternoon —John Connelly. - nir
Afternoon—Peter Benfon. °
United States, f ~ ma
Penpfylvania Diftrift. $
TN punuanee of a writ to rae directed from the
.1 honor'.ble Richard Peters, Esq. |udge of tha j
Diilriel Court of the United States in and for thu j (
Pennsylvania will be to Public "
sale, at the Merchants'Coffee-houfe, in the city of
Philadelphia, on" Monday, the eleventh day of Jj.;
SeptetKbcr next, at 12 o'clock at noon,
The Brijsnlim, called the j
gf% MARIA,
With all and Angular the tackle, ap- *
parcl at: ! furniture as they now ars ;
the fai'dDrigantihe having been condemned to pay
Mariners wapes, See. *
\Vm. NICHOLS, Mafjhnl. ±
Marshal's Office, 7 Ei]
Aujptn 2<j, 1797' i . , nrr '< *t\
N li. The Inventory way be ferti at my 0.11 <* .
For HAMBURGH, i £
■ rplljj Copper Bottomed Ship | t L
1 1 FAVORITE* J>'hn | to
Thompson, Miller, now at ! m;
Bright', wharf, and will be rea- pjJ
dy to take ui en Monday next, Q *
p' ar t 0 f hertargobcing
and ready (n go on board. The ship is 10 well
known, that it is needless to describe her. She
js now in compleat order. For Freight or Paf
f.-ge, please to apply at Mr Jeremiah Warder's I
Cynptiiig Mouse, No. 12, Nurth I lurd street,
or to the Master on bord.
August 30.
Tor SALE,
On board the said Ship, Swedilh Iron, aflorted
Hollow and Window GUIs, Demyjohns, Wrap
ping Paper for Sugar Refiners, Rugs of I& » -
Quality." Please to apply as above.
wf&m4W . A
White Havanna Sagar.
I4t>i boxes > of very fuperierquality now difcharg
-7 f hhds. ( ing from the (hip Hamburgh Packet,
1 at Walnut Streat wharf—and for sale by
Philip Nicklin b 5 Co.
N. B.
. - THE SHIP
Hamburg Packet, L
Silas Mafter,
For Sale, or Charter. 0
Aug. 24. I
rCOMMISSIONERS' SALES, p
Commiflioners of the counties of Ly-
JL coming and Northumberland, have given
notice that they intend to proceed to the .ale of
lands, for the arrearage of taxes, 011 the 7th ot J
September next. .... r
■£j- The different printers 11) 'his city will (
render an eflential feryice to a great number 0. ,
individuals by publilhing this notice. t
Any. 18. ' ;
" For sale, ;
BRETACNES in cafe<
German Checks in do.
Cambrick
pfattillas
Oznabrigs
Gold and silver Watches
Window Glass 10 by 8 ,
Glass Tumblers in cases
Limited Oil in calks, &c. &c.
George Pennoek,
103, High-Streit.
Tuly x. 3^
NOTICE.
IF Tuiov O'Hara, whofome years fincekept
School at the Nine Bridges Queen's County, Eas
tern Shore, Maryland, be living, he is hereby re
minded to call on, or write to, the Rev. Ambrose
Marlhal, near Warwick, Cctil County, Laltern
Shore, Maryland, from whom he will receive iu
tereftini; information.
Augujl 4■ mw&f |W
THE SUBSCRIBERS,
ASSIGNEES #*OF JAMES GREENLEAF,
HEREBY give notice, that they have disposed
of the property afligned to them for the fecui tng
the payment of the note.', acceptances, m(l en
doifements given by Edward Fox, for the use
of the said James Greenleaf; and the holders of
such notes, acceptances, and endowments, are
hereby notifyed that the fubferibers will fettle
with them for the amount of their refpedlive
claims, both principal and interest, at
any time before the icth day of next,
after which day, the holders not applying, will
It excluded, agreeably to the terms of affign
pnent.
Applications to be made at fout}i-eaft corner
of Dock and Second streets (the Dock-street
(ide), between the hours of eleven and one 0
<.4ock every day, Sundays excepted.
Henry Pratt,
Tho. iy. Francis,
John Miller, Jun.
John AJhley,
Jacob Baker.
Philadelphia, August 18, 1797- d
The Inhabitants of the Diftritt
of Southwark,
A I<E informed that a Coachee is provided, to be
A kept at the Constable.' office, the north east
corner of Front and Almond streets, where the
friends of those sick persons who desire to be re
moved to the City Kofpital, arc reqtiettcd to make
apuliration—Allo»a Hcaife" will be kept in readi
nc afor the removal of the dead.
nc.al.or me <jq NA THAV PENROSE-
N E —the l?oor, who with to remove to the
Teats on Schuylkill, may befitinifeed with orders
1 . • A:io . 20
Pnl L A DELPHI A': WEDNESDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 6, 1-97
BLOOMSBUHY.
To be Sold at PUBLIC SALE, J
ON Friday, the eigith day of t! a
inft. between tlie.hi.lirs of twelve and fiVg i un '
o'clock ia the af:ernopn,jtJ}; :■ ' W«
i \, i.:ieeper, in >.
New./erfi;*, that eleftiat (eat catiecTBCOOMS- ,
BUUY, the feat of the Ute John (Jos, Esq. nav
dectafed, with the Appurtenant<is ; containing
490 acres of 1.an.1, with a luitable proportion
of arable, meadow, aittl wood land, ihe prin
cipal minfion house is within a half a mile of
j Trenton, and on the river Delaware. The litu- A
aiion and improvement of this efiate is such as -L
(to be worthy the attention of any gentleman * ll<:
wilhing to retire f/ora the city.— The terns the
will be made easy, as a great part of thepi r- ' ea
chafe money may remain in the hands of the ' n _
purchaser for a liberal term of ciedit, 011 giv
ing latisfaftory iecurity Attendance will be
given on behalf of the fubftribers, who can
make an ir.difputable title for th* premises.
EJtktr Cox, 2
John Stevens, get
Matthias-Barton, ,th<
1 September a. d1 71 Ii th<
. vi
Excellent Bourdeaux Brandy fIA
Ditto ditto Claret in cases.
Just received, and for Sale by (->,
liundle & Leech.
Aug. 21. 2'JV.tf
To be SOLD or RENTED,
A LARGE 13 Story Brick House, on the
Sou;h fide of Filberc street. between
Eighth and Niut'n, lately occupied as the Sur- /
, ' r General's GQcCi *•»
ITie Building i* 36 feet and 35 feet deep,
| the lot Itc feet deep, with the privilege of t nine
! feet wide Alley extending the whole length of H
' ! the lot, to a thirty feet wide Court ior Carriages
1 | to turn in. The House is not flaflered, and
[ ; may be turned either into one, or two dwelling
" Houses. It isfuitab'.c for a .large Manufa<9ory,
' or would make a good Tavtrir. Immediate f e
.peflefiion will be given. in
Apply to No. 111, Chefnut-Street. dt
Aug. 21. cod4t. fu
; TO BE SOL DIVERT CHEAP !
, A Light W A GGGN almost new, with a frame—
and a pair of harness (Engliih 'collars) has never
been used—price 90 Doll*.
A Horse 16 handt high, seven years old—and a
new chair, with a lalling top and harness— 3 io *
* Enquire No. I, Markct-flrcet. , ca
August 24. , diw «»
1 This Day Published,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of
Second and Chefnut ftrcets,
Price J-Btbi of a Dollar,
Observations on certain Documents ft
j Contained ia No. V anil VI of
' « The History of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In which the CHAKGE o» speculation against 1
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late SiCHtTAkY of the Triasur, is FULLI r
REFUTED. .
1 r KIT TEN BY MIU.SB IF.
Th:s publication presents a concise statement 4
of the base means praailed by the Jacobins of the
_ United States to asperse the charaflers of thole P
p.-rl'ons who arc considered as hollite to their difor
„ trarizing. fcheijits. It also contains tke tor- v
refpondence between Mr. Hamilton and 1
t Monroe, Muhlenhurgh and Venable, on the sub- c
°r j-a of the documents ilorefaiu, and a series of let- \
tets from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr.Hi- t
miltor., proving beyond the p®£fc : .'.ity of a doobt, ,
"1 that the connexion between him and Reynolds, I t
of was the result of a daring eonfpiracy on the part
of the latter a»d hi* associates to extort jiioney.^
gj- difcouih of one third from the retail price ■
will be made in favor ot wliolcfaie purchaser*, for
cash. Orders to be addressed to Mr Yo»no.
2.;.
The Norfolk Mail STAGE. i
""PHIS Stage starts fronf the GEORGE Tavern,
J at the corner of Second and Arch Streets, in '
Philadelphia, ivcry Turfdn, Tlmrfaay, and ■ Satur
day, at 3 o'clock, inthe irw'.ing ; arrives at Po
ver the fitft day, at Snov/bin the second day, at
Northampton Court House the third day, and on
the morning of the fourth day the pafTengcrs find
a fafe and comfortable packet to convey them to
Norfolk.
' A paeket leaves Norfolk for Northampton fei ry,
every Tuesday, Thurfjay and Saturday, and the
Stage starts from this ferry for Philadslphia, every
ept Mdii Jay, Wcdnefday and Friday ;!puts up at Snow
; af- Hill th- firft night, at Dover the »d night, and ar
re- lives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
°fc day.
Crn The diftanee on this rent?, between Philadelphia
'U- and Norfolk, is So miles less than on any stage route
between thole places
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road,
which ifrinoft excellent indeed. The proprietor
w llingly engage to return the whole f.»re to any
, passenger, who, after having performed this route,
>fed will fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the fame
ing diftanee, so goodaroad in America.
cn . August 11. dmi.eotf.
sof Young Hyion l ea.
>(t ' e .
live 40 chests of a fupenor quality —
at 100 do.of Pyfon, »
xt; Imported in the IVoodrop Sims, and for talc by
will the fubferibera, corner of Second and Pine
ign- street. . ;
C. liaight<.
rn< i r June 21. ' eotf
reet \ ~ .
ic o' Imported in the Jhip / igou,
And for sale by John Morton, No. 116> boilth
Front-street; * v
r, Hyson
Hyson Skin (.TEAS
Young Hyson (
Imperial J
J April IP. eolf
,- l£t Chocolate and Mustard
Manufactured as tifual,
Ginger and Pepper ground
to be Shelled or Pearl Bariey
east Bhiladelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder
the London Porter
e re- Taunton and Button Ale
make Hod Port and other Wines, eithe bottled,
catl '" or by the pipe, or galloo —'.'uitablc
forexpoitatioa or home tonfumption—
For Sale by
°/ e h r j john HajOortb.
, :1 ' No. 98 south Fi-Cut-ftrctt
By John Fen no, N O, 119 Chefnut Street
Mrs. G RATTAN In
INFORMS her, frWnrfs,and the public tn general,
that htr house, No. 19a, Market-ftrcet,.vul con- p
tirue open during the fielncfs.
r a:.U Luty:*- 2:/ v. r;ori : . Teh p.
B«.iXRs, in 3 dcul)is room, eight r,oi.L/.M. 1 " V, l '
For the convvnience of fhofc gentlemen who
have not thair in town, Mrs. <S aat« an Met
receive gentlemen to dine at half a dollar Sail
,qy- A ?.Q —.At
~ TO BE SOjL D,
And pojftjfwn given immediately, g^ e
ALMGR two flopr brick House, handfomeiy
situated in Princeton, There are foyr room# p .
and a entry on each floor, and five rooms in * irr
the garret, a range of back building 51 feet in 4 00
length, and a piazza of 57 f?er» There is a pump /
in the yard, an excelleut kitchen garden, at the 'J
farchtr end of which are a carriage house and two V
'liable#, one of which is new, 44 feet long, with
flails in the two (tables for 37 hones. The heal- t^e
thineft and pleafantnef* ot its situation., and thd (
number of genteel and agreeable families in and cor <
n«ar the town, reader it a deiirable fetreeat for a
gentleman from the city. The commodioufnefs of £
,the house, its central position, and the largeness of j n £
the fiablea, make it every suitable for a tavern, for rcnc
which it has always been considered as a capital
{land. Inqr.-re on the premises, of
ISAAC SNOWDEN, jus. A
Prine.ton, A"g- *5 *9 —drwiitwtf | "i.
COUGKSr COLD S7ASTHMAS,~and ! '
CONSUMPTIONS.
Just received, by Wm. Griffiths, Ne. I^7,South
Serond-ftreet, a frefh fupptyot ,
Genuine Bal/arn of Honey, on
A Mediiinc invencedljy tke Uu-fiic jvhn Kill' feet
{who procured him pre
' the appellation of the Linnaeus of Dritam) and is nul
I •prifidered in England a? a certain cure for fche above
complaints ; it is a!fo of lingular efficacy in the
Hooping Cough,
It may aifo be had retail of W. A. Stokes, No. 1
6r, South Second flreet, and T. Stiff, 55, New
ftreet, in bottles at 75 cents each. " rc
Wm. Griffiths having observed the happy ef- ty
fe<st of the medicine, (fever&l cases of cures hav- 1 vva
ing come within his own knowledge) and the great loq
demand for it ha< induced him to order a large z\
fupp'y, a part of which he has jufl received. on
Augvf 3. lav? 3W tio
j ma
'A Cook wanted. J£
pri
A WOMAN who underftandi the biiGnefa and
can bring good recommendations, may find employ
and receive generous wagep byapplymg at No. 6J,
north Srventh-ftrcet. V.
Awgfft 15. *3*
Wanted to piirchafe,
A pair of float, well broke Hcrfas, young and
found. Enquire at Mr. ©tilers' Hotel, Chefnut
ftreet.
Application must be made immediately.
August 12 *it
Insurance Company\<f h'erth America.
THE Stockholder! in this company are here
by informed, that, pursuant to the fifth
clause of their Charter, and >% the request of i
" Number of Stockholder!, who, together, ate
. : proprietors «f Six Thousand and up
. { wares," a general mrr'.;v,g of the Stockholders
will be held at tb- Company'! Office, on Mon
. day the day of September next, at 11
- o'clock, a. m. for the purpose of filling up a _
- victucy in their Diretfiion ; and taking into
- fuch Regulation* or Rye Laws a6_
1 may be presented in conformity with tke Cbar
'> ter of Incorporation. r "
' EBEN. HAZARD, S^ry.
July 10. w.SiftS it *l'
r The Partnership,
T TNDER the firm of FREEMAN & Company,
U it diflolted by mutual confenf. All persons
having any demands tke said dv
i, fired to render 'he ianae to T. B. Freeman ; and
n those indebted to the House are deftrcd to make pay
ment to-him whom bufincis will in future be
carried on,at hisstore, No. 39, South I-ront-flreet.
It Aurrud 7 * odAW r
d PETER BORGER,
® TNFORMS hi* friend* and the public in general
J. that-he'has removed from Nr. 119, corner of '
Y, Arch and Fourth, to No. 105 Front, be-
ie tween Arch and Race streets.
7 ]uly t »» W 4W r
r- Rofs y Simfon, 1
"d —ajvs tor sale —
C Hoglhcads,
' 4 Excellent Coffee in } Tierces, and
tc (_ Barrels.
A (mail parcel of nice cocoa in bag!
A ftj ( w puncheons Jamaica spirits, fourth proof
Snperior Teneriffee wine, old and in .Madeirapipes
ny An invoice of and hoficry te be fold by
te > the package
ne A few hampers baft EnglHli cheese.
Tulv 27- d'f
-♦ ' Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and oheaper thin any other in
the City—
OF VARIOUS SIZES,
Fiom Bby 6 to 19 by 14,
By the Angle Box or Quanii'y, may be had at the
by S ore of the Subscribers, corner ot Aich aud Front
ine It recti _
James C. if Samuel W. Fijher.
Philadelphia, J'i«e 9, 1797.
F
/ This Day is Published,
BY Mess. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the
other Hookfellei 1 !,
Price One Dollar and twenty-five tents.
Elegant y primed on IVovr paper, and Ho*
Prejfed,
Bv John ffcoropfon,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
- The Gonftitutions
J Of the feverftl States with emch other, and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features oi eaeh ConstitUtion, and
clafling together their most important provisions,
under the fevcral heads of administration ; with
er Notes and ObCervat ions.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of Soulb-Carnlina,
It L L D. and member of the Congrcfs of the
lblc United States.
Dedicated to t'no People,of th« United States.
N. B. A few Copii s printed on an inldrior pa
per, at j ; 4ths of auoi.af. -
t February $ , '
Imported inthefhipMANCßE^TfiE.,
Benjamin SftEWfii-t, Master,
Frotn Bourdeaux, and for sale by l!)c IttLfc. .her,
JJf). ij WaVaiif iif, e«. "■
I Ifi(h market claret in cases ( Entitled to J,.
Medoc wine, in do. ( Drawback. Ru]
Sautenie, do. da. J Ra'
Thomas Murgalroyd.
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter caflts Km
Rota- do. do. Cat
Pimento in bags "
4000 bulhels Liverpool fait. V.j
Aug. 24. tut&stf. CIo
— Ital
A PERSON Ol 7 INGENUITY, lately arrived Wfi
from Europe, wishes to find ht re a place in
the quality of a Director of a Glass-house, Chryf
tal of all kinds, having particular means for the
conftru&ion of tke kilns, pots, &c. and pofieflin£
likewise the articles used in tho Glals house a ot
E.i* land and France, having; wwrkeJ a loog while (
in m#ft of them. Every exertion will be to q,,
render-the manufadlory deicrviog ef public appro- t he
bation—He, who wi(h<?s to speak to him-, will find SO'
him at No. 275 Front-ftie«t. up
1 August 24. 1
Ear I'aie or to be Ist 011 around- luci
0 uni
rent, lie?
A valuable Lot qf Ground { per
SITI)4TE on >he tiorth-eaft corner of Wal- '
nut and Tilth streets, fronting.the State-
House square. This lot is feet front
on Walnut fireet, and one hundred ai.d i.iifteen
feet aiiTj an hilf trf '"♦ i- llreet ; th; re ~re it
present two small two itory brick houses, and a
1 numb.er of small tene.nenti thereon. _J
Also, for Sule,
Two three llory Brick Hcufes 1
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. fttuate on
Water-ftrect, between Mulberry and SaJTafras
streets, containing iu front on Water street Cf- Be
. ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the 1 i
t south thirteen feet fix inches. These haufes
: ave the conveniance of a public alley adjoining
on the north fide, and are a very delirable situa
tion for a merchant, flour fa£lor,or others who
■ may have occasion for storage of goods. This t1
property will be fold on very reasonable terms r ,
forcath. For further information apply to the
printer. ;; c
I Jy»ly ar. m&wtf cc
1 The Subscriber has for Sale, «/<•,
A large afTortmeiit o£ India Muslins,
coarse and fine ki
India Calicoes
Sooty RomalU fa
i BHie Cloths and Checks fe,
Bandanna Handkerchiefs l a
Blue red and Gilli Handkerchiefs -j=
An invoice of Iritla Linens and Sheetings, well
aflorted
A hox of Diapers
Silk Umbrellas
Two boxes »f fine Spices, cotaiaing Nutmegs, vi
Mace and Cloves
"l" Black Pepper of fitft quality e:
Ej!i India Ginger ti
" Java Sugar ■ _ 8
e A quantity «f Madeira Wine
?' Ditto of Gin
r5 Roll Brimstone
1 * Mordecai Lezvis. j
Aug# It. 3 aw ' ra
as Cedar Shingles.
r- {
THE fubferi'uer has a quantity of 3 feet Cedar {
Shingles of a superior quality, l.n laic at 13 j (
dollars p»r tlioufand. I (
William Halloivell, |
No. 193 North Third-Jlrut. ,
ns July 17. 1 eoiat (
; d . DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
be 1
cL Notice is hereby Given,
ryHAT agreeably to an aft of Congrcfs «f the ,
1 United States of America, paiTed at Phila- ,
delphia, the i3th day of May, J796 laying du
rUr ties on Carriages, for the conveyance of persons,
° which ihall be kept by or ft - any person, for hU
3C " or her own life, or to let out to hire, or for the
conveyance of paflengers, the leOeral duties and
rates following, to wit :
for and upon every Coach, rj dols.
trpon every CI aritit, iz dols,
upon every Poll Chariot, 11 dolt,
upon every Poll Chaifc, 11 dols.
upon every Phaeton,witn or without top,
. 9 dols.
/ upon every Coachee, 9 do' l .
upon other Carriages, bavin? pannelwork
P« above, with blinds, glafles owiurtai-is,
J, y 9 dols.
upon fcur wheeled Carriage?, having fla
med polls and topi with Heel springs, 6
J dols.
apon four wheeled Carriages, with wood
en or iron springs or jacks, 3 dols.
r ; n uporf Curricles with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chaifeswith tops, 3 dols.
upon Chairs with ccps, 3 d°l«-
u' on other two wheel topcarriages, 3 dols.
: the upon two wheel carriages, with steel or
ont- jr«»j fprir"*-, 3 dols.
For and upon all otl two wheel carriages, 1 dols.
r, upon everyt r wheeled carriage, having
,j frair. V poits and *.ops, and relling up
on wooden spars, 1 do's.
The Collc>Slors of the Revenue for the firft Sur
vey of the DUlrid of Pennsylvania, will attend
the daily, until the 30th day of September n-xt, ior
the put pose ot receiving the din ies on Carriages, at
No, II" 7 , in Race or Saffafras-flreet, in the City of
Hob Phi'ladelphia; at the house of Daniel St. Clair,Efq.
in the County of Montgomery ; and at. thehou.e
of James Chapman, Esq. in the County o( Bucks ;
of which all persons puflefied ol such Carriages are
defiled to take notice.
Notice is also given,
with TQ a j] reta jj dealers in Wines, and foreign dif
lble, > tilled spirituous liquors, that licences wili •• grant
• ancl ed to them ; one licence lor carrying on tlio bufi-
S°?S ness of retailing of Wir.es, in a Ids qn.ir.tity, or
Tv_ ' l ' l i n less quantities than thirty gal^n-*—ar.d one li
cence for carrying 011 the of retailing Spi
rituous liquors in lefsquantltftsthaa 10 gallons, at
the fame time and at tbeTarac places, by the ofiic
the cr. legally authprifed t« grant luch liceßce,-.
1 WILI.IAM NIOHpLS,
ites. Infpeilor of the Revenue of tbc firil fut
r pa- i, vcy of the Diii.'i- of Tcanlylvama.
_ Office oJ b.fpoTtion at
if ,Pfc{iadelpl-i», 3<l '*'27- i
Tl.ior.iAs Letjff'er,
Vifih corner of'North'aiiie);, No. 34,
HAS 70R s£tt 9
;;^-X< 4rr U.KN'Vicci Wourk-ux \<iactff Caie***4
JLJ bar;*;.
White Crrvcf> in. cv.flt* 1
TitkK'tjWirgfft
Ruflia Sail Cloth#
Ravens Duck
B3g Liaen
Hcfii ins t
P %yer and Fable £h;ih
Uippfiy bag/ .
Caraavon l>erman Cloth
'.n assortment of black coloured Ribton^
Fine German i-aces
About twelve tons Ruflia clean Hemp
Clover Seed fl
Italian Soap, in fmallboxes, for family ufs
Window Glars A i<> —lf*
' THIS JJAY PUrSU:>HiiD,
And for file by THOMAS DOBSON, at the
St,one Hoyi'e. No. 41, foutli 'Second (Irect,
EVENINGS at HOME ; '
OR,THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED.
.Confining of a variety of Miscellaneous Pieces sos
the inftruilion and awiufementof YOUNvi IJER
SON •">—STxVolurnesKandfomely printedand bound
up in two volumes, price Two dollars.
The variety and excellence of these pieces arc
such, that the book needs only to be known to be
universally vlleemed one of the most. valuable pubx
Jic?tiojis th t can be put into tbu hands of young
per font.
behVhtful taflc.to rear the tender thought,
To teikfch.the yotm«* idea how t«» {hoot,
I"o pour fi.e frcih ioftru&ion o'er the mind,
To breathe ih* enlivening spirit, and to fix
Tter rUJttTmspui in the glowing-Wt aft."
Thomson.
Au&uft 24- mwfiw
" THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
Ey THOMsiS DOBSON, at the Stone House,
No. 41, Couth Second street,
Letters and Conversations,
Between fevtral Young improving and in
teresting fubje&s.
Translated from the Dutch of Madame de Camion,
with alterations and improvements,
Printed <» fine paper, and neatly bound,
Price one dollar.
AMIDST the tide of modern Romances, painting
tales ef extraordinary distress, or of desperate or
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," and
which it would be for the honor of young ladies to
be ignorant of, this little book comes forward to so
licit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds of real life, the proper, because
elegant and natural dignity and imp&tancc of the Peixalt
cbarafier is exhibited in an interesting point of view,
and prefects examples of real and attainable excel
lence.
The publiffier was fomuch pleased with the per»-
sal, that he was persuaded he (hould do a pleating
service to the community by fending it in 0 circu
lation. August 14-rmw4W ,
To Majlcrs and Pilots bringing us Vsjfels
from Foreign Pvrts to this City.
WHereas lundi y infringements have lately bce»
made on t'nc ilws of this (late for the pro
venting oeftiletltial or infectious dlfeafes, either
ignorance or inattentios thereto, it is tho '.
expedient at this time to publifl) the fallowing ex„
tracts froßi the laws of aid April, 1794, ?ti> and
Bth f»&ions.
HEALTK-O* MCE.
June 6th, 1794:
ExlraFt of an aft for fcettring the city and port,
of Philadelphia from the introduction of pefli
lential and contagious difcafes.
Srer. 7. And be it further enabled, that eV,ery
mailt t or captain of any flap or Toffel coming from
fep (veffcls ailually n the coalhfcg trade
r ! excepted) and bound to any port or place within
' j ti<e jurifdnSion of Pennsylvania,(hall cause his (hip*
or vessel to be brought to anchor,or othexwife flav
| ert it! the stream of the river Delaware, oppefite to
the Health-Office op State-IflaniJ, aforefaid, and
there to remain until he ihall have duly obtained a
certificate or bill of healh from tho Resident Phy
~ iician. And it, previeufly toobiaining filch certi
ficate or bill of health, any matter or captain (hall
fuffer hisihip or vessel to approach nearer than tho
said Health-Office to the city of Philadelphia, o®
(hall land, cause orfuffer to be landed, or brought
on store, at any place or port within this Corn
e mbnwcalth, or at any other port or place, with tho
intent ol being conveyed into this Commonwealth,
' any person or persons, or any goods, wares or mer
?• chandize, or,, if after receiving such bill.of health
' s o." certificate, he fhallncgUA or refufe to deliver
'' the lam<" to the Health-Olficer, such or cap-
tain (ball forfeit and p .y, for each and every such
offence, ihefumof rive hundred dollars.
And the captain or matter of «very (hip or vef-
fcl shall fend a fafe and commodious boat to bring
the physician on board, and (hall in like manner
convey him back to the Health-Office, after lie has
P> concluded his official examination ; Afid while he
is making f\ich examination, or in rase any fubfer
quent examination by the Health Officer, or Con
,c iulting Physician, agreeably to the direaions of
thi- adl, the matter or captain (hall expole or cauie
to be expofcd to thefearch of the Rcfident Phyfi
a" cian,or of the Health Officer and Consulting Phyfi
-6 ciau (as the cafe may be) each and every part of tha
(hip or vessel, and (hall prcfent to hi. view each
and every person or persons on board thereol, and
and (hall also true and fatisfadory answers make
to all such questions a3 the Resident Physic ian, Sc.
at the/time of examination ffiall ask relative to the
health of any poitor place fr*m which the l fliip ci
ls- ve ss e l failed, Tor has fines touched at—die s umber
or of persons on board when the (hip or vessel entered
on her voyage—the number of persons that have,
'k - since been landed or taken 011 board, and
"S and whererefpedively—what persons on boai'd—
P" f they have been during the voyage, or shall, Lt,
the time of examination, be infeitcd with peU
ir " tilential or contagious difeafe—a«d what is the pre
n<i f tHt (lata-and condition ef the persons on board
lo ' : with reffjedl to their health or difcafes. And it
at any matter or captain shall rcfufe to expofc as afore-.
of aid, to the search of any cf the officers aforcfaid.
fq- n i'f he (hall conceal any Jiek person, or in any other man
:l*r° rer dcceite tie proper ojjiieri aforefaid In his anliuers,
■* ; ucb captain oc matter, for every such offence, (hall
ire forfeit and pay the furn of five hundred DOk.-
LA P S. , '
Sect. 8. And if nay person or persons whatfo
•C ever (the Resident Physician, &c. excopted) ih»«
' go on board any vessel, before the matter thereof'
has received a. certificate of health in the manner
direSed, every person so offending, fall pay the
•j. um Of ONE UUND&ED DOLI.ARS.
r 't IT being ahfolutcly necessary that the foregoing
Sc- fcftions fbould be punclually complied with, the
fubferiber, in compliance with bis uuty, mutt ex
ail a rigorp*s ®bfervance of tho fume, or else be
-ur- under tiw neccflity of putting the laws in force.
Wm. 1 AI.f.EN, Health Officer oj trie
Port of 1 ifiUJ-'phm.
a K; 14-
[Volume XII.(ci>rcui>ar.) I
GENERAL OkbERS.
Philadelphia > At/gtijl tg, i
IN Konfot-mity to the Aft of Congress of
June 24th, containing a tequifition
of the mihtfa of this state (officers included)
and in obedience to the commands of the
ifSdrrefntfr relative thereto, you are hereby
o.deredto hold in readiness to tharch at a
moment's warning, eight hundred and seven
teen militia, ftom your brigade and to make
4 me returns of your progress therein as fpeedi-
Jy as pcffihle.
By order of the Commander In Chief,
JOS. HARMAR, Adj. Gen.
To Lewis Nicholas
Brigade Infpeflor for the Ci- >•
ty of Philadelphial J
Post Officii, September sth, 1797.■
Cj* The Post Office will be removed
morrow at 3 o'clock, P. M. to Mr. Dun
lap's Coach house, 12 th street, between Mar
ket ar.d Chefnut street, where merchants and'
t others will pieafe to fend for their letters, as
the letter carriers during the continuance of
the present prevailing sickness will not he
sent out,
The Health-Office
tS removed to the City-Hall, aucf is kept open
flight and day, where pcrfons having bufin-fs may
apply. Wm . ALLEN, Health-Officer.
■>cpt. 4. ,dtf
' NOTICE. r
THE Offices of the Department of War are for
tfce present removed ntar to the Fatls of the Scdyl
kii), on the Ridge Road.
September 4. dtf
V\ anted,
APerfon to attend an Office, and a 5 *s a foef
fenger. He must be well acquainted with
the city, and bring unexceptionable recommenda
tioni. Inquire of thp Ptinter.
Sept. C ' IW
Imported in the iateit arrivals from
Amflerdam and Hamburg, and forfait by
B. W J. Bohlen,
A large assortment »f fine French ( Cambrics.,
Platillas KufTia sndDutch fail cloth
Bnttannias *" Writing, post, and print-
Rousnes ing paper
Brown Holland Dutch calf skins
Checks and (Iripes Prime madder
Ticklenburgs Shell'd Barley
Oztiahurgs Looking glalfes
Vv hite (heetings Hollow glass ware
I9iaper Slates
Brown ro'l3 Coffee mills
tTmbrillas Brass kettles
Hair ribbons Scythes and straw knives
Black and white laces Tovsaflorted in boxes
Btft Holland Gkn in pipes
Londcn particular Madeira Wine
July t4■ m&thtf
TO"BE SOLD;
And immediate poffeffmn given,
A Convenient well finifhed Brick Tenement,
with a cook house and other out houfes.fitu
atcd in a pleasant part of the borough of Wilminp
ton, in the State of Delawsre—The lot of ground
has forty feet front or Vfeft-flrret, and extends
through the fquarp to Padore-ftreet, on which it
ert jtcJ a flable and carriage honfe.
ALLEN M'LANE.
>|'ilmington, Aug. <O.
eicgant Iloufe in Arch Street.
TO be let and entered on immediately a large
and house at the Corner of Arch and
Ninth Street. There are two drawing Moms
a.idene dining rooqv— the largest is 31 feet by
it —and two are so connected by folding doors
as to make but one. Also, five bed rooms, be
fjdes 5 in the garret, well finifhed for
There are stables and a coach house, with evry
convenience for a family. Enquire at No. it),
in North Seventh street, or at No. ail, Arch
Street;
s^wjw.
Red Port Wine.
Just arrived, by the brig Iris, capt Rhodes, from
, Oporto,
Jted Port Wine in pipes,hhds. and quarter eaflM
4k. cwt. Cork, for sale by
Philips, Gramond, & Co.
July at., ' 5_
Philadelphia, l}thjuly, 179?.
NOTICE is hereby given, that separate pro
pofals withfealed covers will be received
at my office until the elevenfh day of September
next, to fumifh by contrail the following ar
ticles for the' use of the Army of the United
States in the year 1798- f
First Coiuradt for
8 Sergeants coats J
' 1 Musicians, do.
10 Sergeants vests Dragoons.
116 Privates eoats
116 Privates vests
64 Serjeants coats
32 Musicians, do.
Sergeants vests
191 Woolen overalls ArtiHerifts
192 Linen overalls , &
936' Privates coats Engineer*.
936 do. v#fts
, 1871 Woolen overalls
187 a Linen do. {
144 Sergeants coats
72 Musicians, do.
»i 6 Sergeants veils N
432 Linen overalls
432 Wooleti do. * Infantry.
189S
1 1892 do. vests
3784 Woolen overalls
3784 Linen do.
lit ContraSl, f«r 1288 Sergeants shirts
x 1816 Privates do.
12600 Socks
ad Contrafl, for '272 pair leather breeches ,
Sd for 272 pair boots
4600 No. 1
8000 pair do. No. 2
4tl> Contract, for 1032 Artilleries and Engi
neers hate 1
2108 Infantry do.
136 Dragoon caps
The tfhole to be delivered at the city of Phils- ,
delphia, viz. ,
One faurtb on or before the 13th diy el Fe
bruary next.
One fourth on or before the 13th day of A
)»ril next. 1
The remaining half on or before the ijtliday 1
of June next. . < It
The article" are to be agreeable t« such pat- ,
ferns as shall be direfird by the Secretary for the j
Department of War.
Payments to be made as f »on as the article J
ftull be delivered, and pasTed infpeiT.ion. 1 '
7'KNCH FRANCIS, Purveyor. 1
eotuihSep. - , '
■so)e dSajette.
———
PHILADELPHIA,
WEDNESDAY EVENING, September 6.
Lift of all the Burials in the fcveral Grave-
Tards of the City and Liberties of Phila
delphia, as taken from the looks kept by
Clergymen, Sextons, &c.
From Monday noon till Tuesday noon.
- m
Knme of Burial Ground. cj
.. Chcift Church ' r o
St. Peter's -i' o l
St Paul's i o
First Prelbyterian o o
Second Prefbyteri.in o o
Third Presbyterian o I
Scotch p resbyterian o o
AfTociatc Church c 0
St. Mary's Chapel I o
Trinity Church sco
Friends , o o
" Free Quakers o 0
' Swedes o o
> German Lutheran o o
F German CalvinilU o o
; Moravians I o
Baptifte o i
- ■ Methodists o °
Univerfalift* o 0
i Jews i 0 o
Potter's Field I o
City Hospital burying ground* 6 °
Kensington i o
Coates's © o
Total for the last 24 hours. ra 3
* Three of these were from the city.
The Commissioners appointed by thi
. Governor, to carry into effeiS the law for
alleviating the distress of the Citizen* of Phi
ladelphia, and the suburbs thereof; inform
their fellow-citizens, that they have attend
ed to their appointment, and now invite
them to recommend in writing, signed by
one or .more reputable inhabitant, such of
the indigent as may come to their know
ledge, who will be a flirted as they may stand
in need, by applying at the State-House,
from 3 to 5 o'clock, on the 6th inft. and
every feeond, fourth and sixth days of the
week, called Monday, Wednesday, and
Friday, at the fame hours, while neceflary ;
and those who want employ, may likewise
apply as above, or to either of thp commis
sioners at their dwellings.
Commissioners for the city.
Robert Wharton, S. lhird-ftreet, No. 135.
George Krebs, N. Fifth-flreet, No. 17.
John James, ditto No. 18.
Israel Israel, corner of Chefnut & Third St.
Thomas Savery, N. Fifth-ftreet, No. 20.
Edward Garrigues, Cherry-street, No. 39.
Commissioners for the Northern Liberties.
Samuel Wheeler, Vine-street, No. 99.
John Wagner, Noble-street.
George lnglis, New Market-street..
Commissioners for Southwark.
Samuel Church, corner South & Water St.
William Lennnrd, South Second-street.
Robert M'Mullen, Swanfon-ftreet.
* Philadelphia, September 5, 1797.
From the Tint PlBCt.
" According to English papers, Thomas
Paine, Hamilton fipwan, and James Nap
per Tandy were an in Paris on the 4th of
Julyiaft. The paragraphifts appear to ap
prehend something from the junction of
this trio ; convinced, perhaps, that the uni
ted force of these three honefl men in any
country are more than equal to the nefarious
machinations of all the knaves in the Uni
verse."
[As jacobinism has long been the sole paflport to
hooefty, in the opinion of Sintthefe may be
with him, three eminently ioittjl men. Though by
his italitifing this very delicate word, it may
be that he defigneda slur upon these poor patriots,
and 1 have mistaken bis meaning. Not that there
can be any doubts of the eenfummatc honefly of
all patriots. Freneau is doubtlcfs an bonefl man. so
is Bache, so are they all, all btnefi men. Every
man who seeks to fubflitute his own fyftcm, in op
position to the opinion of millions, for the already
established form, which they are attached to, is an
honed man and a good patriot! But some people
who are in more nice and scrupulous habits than
Mr. Freneaa, on thi» poipt, will require other
qualifications than a pretended patriotism, for a
paiTport to their good opinion.
A curious lapfu in the above, deserves to be no-'
ticed . The latter part of the paragraph would
have been fufficiently reconcileable with his own
tenets, if he had applied it to England—But take
it as it flands, and it contains a clear inference, that
his three bomji men are in a land where all the
knaves in the universe arc collected. Unhappily
this is not true.] . •
POLITICAL REFLECTIONS.
When the eye wonders back into the his
tory of mankind, and beholds with what
savage fer»»ity the nations of the earth have,
from the earheft of times, wafted ant} de
stroyed each other; when we observe the
sanguinary commptions of the present day,
and fee Europe, the mod civilized quarter
of the globe, drenched in tears and in blood
we are almost induced to credit the opinion
of Hobbes, that a state of war it the natur
al condition of mankind,
Let us firft, however, in*rrogate the
heart of man; let his faculties be analysed;
let it be enquired how far he is the creature
of education and of moral difciph'ne, before
we pronounce that natural, which be
charged to the imperfection of political in
stitution and positive laws. It will be found,
on a closer examination, that peace and not
war, is the natural state of man. The lat
ter, as may be demonftratcd from the records
of all ages, is the disease of society, genera
ted by the ambition of power and the lust of
dominion.
Amctfcans ! study tlje arts of peace. A
void as much as possible, any interference
with the politicks of Europe.—Beware of
the evil which so long has distorted the vari
ous government oftkeearth; and give lia
bility to the principles which fofter the hap- ]
pinefs and prosperity of fociat beings. Your 1
situation is truly critical. View the esifc of :
war. Deliberate wejl before ycnl tr.ake fi)e 1
last tremecdi«u3 appeal of society. On yenr 1
government the hopes a:id the tears of man
kind have alighted. With fe\y exceptions,
indeed, it is built, on principles that are de
duced from the fitnels of things. Its dura
tion or its decline will prove to the world
the strength and virtue, or the corruptibility
and wcakncfs, of the human character.
SPANISH TF..
PHILIP the Third, \iv\x\v gravelyfeated—asSpan
iards generally are, by a chimney where the fire
maker of the couit had kindled so grcata quantity of
wood that the monarch wis nearly fuffoc.ited with
heat, his grandeur would not fuflfer him to.rifc from
his chair; and the domed ics could not jirrfume to
enter the apartment, because it was against the
etiquette. At length the Mtrqwia DePotat ap
> peared, and tne King ordered him to damp, the
fire: blit he ejtcufed hirnfelf} —alledging, that he
) was forbidden hy the ETicyjtTTr to perform such
) a funilion, for which the Duke B'Ufle ia ought to
> ought to he called, as it was hie business. The
; Duke wJs gone eut ; the Jire burnt fiercer ; and
3 the-AVnjr endured it, rather than derogate Iromhis
j dignity. But hii falood was heated to such a degree,
5 tKat an eryftpelas broke out in his head the next
3 day; whkh being fucceederl by a violent fever,
3 carried him off in i6ar, atihe age of 24. Well
3 might our Engli(h satirist exclaim—
} " Spain gives us hmde, and Spain to all theea'rth
j " May largely give, nor fcsl herfelf a dearth !"
? CburcLill.
t OTWAY, a well known English dramatic wri
-3 ter, (asthe sailors fay) was generally kept (leering
3 upon a wind. He for a little time lived in a soli-
tary house in a place called East-Cheap, at that
3 time near, now in London. His plays did afford
him a nariow fubfillence. One night two or three
thieves broke into his houfc, under an idea that
> the man ifouft have great riche», who was lb much
> talked of as the author of " The Orphan/* He
treated them with complaisance, them
[ empty trunks and bare walls, adding, I wonder
nentlemefi robber!, what you expet7 to Jind in my haufe in
the night, when, by my foul, I can find nothing in it
•nyfelf in the day time,
An Irish schoolmaster, a great enemy to idle
ness, thinking the old copy. " Laziness will doathe
a min with rag 3," not correct, Altered
1 it, and gave it to onecf hisfeholars thus:—Lazi
neli will I loathe a ska# with naledneft,"
SAVAGB ANECDOTE.
: Ftom Mifi William') Letter/.
" A peasant ol d'Achicourt, a village near Ar
ras, came to fell butter in the town. As (he walk
ed along the streets. (he met a cart filled with vic
, tims who were going to execution.—" Vojla," said
this poor creature with naivete, " voila des gens
qui meurent pour bien peu dc chose !"* She was
indartly leized and led to the tribunal of Lebon.
During hor trial (he held in her r.rms her infant of
three months old, whom Ike futkled. When (he
heard ker sentence of death, «« Quoi!" said flu,
" quoi, pourun mot qurj'aidit, vous allex feparer
l'cnfant d'avec la mere ?"f Wlicn (be received the
fatal stroke, the dream of maternal nouriftimcnt
i*lued rapiJly from her bosom, knd, minjlingwith
her Mood, bathed her executioner."
* " Thrift people they die for very little"
f " What ! for one 'word I said, will you pari the
ebili and ks mother •
From the N. T. Daily Gaxelte.
Mejfrs. M'J.ean Iff Lang t
As the attainment of an end depends much
upon the means made use of, the friends of
civil liberty throughout the world have
great reason to fear that the monsters who
have adted in the name of liberty for nearly
eight years,' and have deluged France with
blood and committed the most (hocking out
rages on humanity, will have left such an
imprefiion of (hame, horror and vengeance
C!t the minds bf the French nation, as to
make t'be» throw themselves ifcto the arms
of perhaps <leipotf£u itfelf, to evince to the
wofld that they had no participation in the
revolutionary crimes which ha7<? left an in
delible stain on the national charaftef. To
every person acquainted with the paflions of
men and the history of past ages, it is evident
that anarchy, carnage, and civil diffentions
await France immediately on the event of a
general peace, when the public mind no
longer occupied with foreign war, will turn
its thoughts within, and fee and feel the ef
fects of the devastations committed on reli
gion, commerce, manufactures, property and
morals, by men profefllng to be the apostles
of liberty and a£ting in her name. The
deadly hatred and animolity which the dif
ferent faftions will feel towards each other,
will be produ&ive of the most dreadful anar
chy, and taking "the, history of past ages
for a datnm; it is not improbable that, tired
of the horrors of civil discord, and anxious to
rescue the national charadter from the odium
cast upon It by the sanguinary men who
have condudted the revolution—they will
seek for repose and national honor in the
arms of any chief who poflelTes their confi
dence. The abhorrence ofVthe French na
tion against the men who have carried on
therevolution,is increased by French writers,
who daily iiTue pamphlets reciting the hor
rid reign of the men of blood ; the tenden
cy of these writings in exciting detestation
of the men, will be to excite detestation of
their meafures-*-the event mull be obvious.
The following horrid pidturc ii set before
the eyes of the French nation, by the elegant
author of " The crimes committed during
the French Revolution." vol. I, page 72, a
work just publiftied at Parjs. Translated for
this Gazette.
" Ah ! behold the horrid pi&ure which
discloses itfelf to our view ! fee this land
strewed over with bloody carcafrs—torn to
pieces, mutilated, beheaded ; these heaps of
bones, of limbs, of heads—ghastly barrier—
which eur crimes have raised between nature
and us : hear the doleful cries of the ghosts
of our vidtims, re-echo in the woods, in the
fields, and in the cities ; rife up from the
bottom of the sets,, frpm the bosom of riv
ers, from the bowels of the earth, and with
their mournful and revengeful accents im
plore the too dilatory thunder to fall on our
criminal heads. See the dead bodies of
those cnildrcn rc-a'nimated, rife ou the
breads offhfir drowned mothers, and ftretch
mg out their arms to us, Hammering ex
claim, " it is through you that we are or
phans." See them follow us, and in their
broken Ikulls, present to our burning lips,
the innocent blood we have died.' See those
bodies deprived of heads, press towards us,
cling round us with their arms, like so many
serpents, pull tis dotVn, roll us in the bloody
mire where our horrid impiety aba'ndoned
without th« rites of iepulttire and de
cency. There, a head, stripped from the
reft of the body, rolls before us, bites at us,
muttering these words : " Butchering Le
gislators, what have you dim* with my bo
dy and limbs ? Whyhavayou thus murder
ed and separated us ? If yr a could
blood only quench your; thiril ?" Farther,
some arms, (hot off by our orders cling
round 11s, and by their menacing gestures,
excite the furies to torment us. Still far
ther, the genius of remorse, with a torch in
his hand, writes in letters of blood on tlie
sand : France, in naming a Convention, has
produced a movjler which males nature Jhudder.
Ah ! which of us will gue a mortal stab to
those people who continually hover about
us and a e forever befort our eyes ( tkey
make the earth appear barren and comfort
lefs to us, they rob us of the light of hea
ven, they co'ver the high roads, they darken
and render more glooniy even the forefts ;
they are round about us—they are near us ;
they are far from us." " Let us appeal to
fadts."
" Will posterity believe that France, that
the firft people in the universe, should have
had a senate, which, during three years,
fanftioned all forts of crimes ; a
which, during 18 months, saw coldly, cart
loads of victims roll towards the fcaffolds !
Will our defcendents believe that it was
to all the cries of innocence, that some of
these fenntors went from choice to dine in
view of the places of puni(hment,*that the
disgusting afpett of revolutionary murders
was the prelude to the pleasures of the table,
that the fail of the aftaflin's cleaver was Aie
signal for beginning their orgies, that some
of those conscript fathers saw their broth
ers in the hands of the executioners and
never took a single step to save them ; o
thers who signalized themselves by denounc
ing them ; others, in fine, who delivered
them up to death with their own hands ;
that gambling and plays finifhed the day,
that their bosom companions were the judg
es and jury of the tribunals of -blood, rob
bers, spies, and the fans culotte Sultans of
the revolutionary committees, and to carry
our national shame to the highelFpitch, the
members of the commune were vile enough
to be the horrid engines of the mo'ft horrid
senate t]jst ever difgrpced the annals of hu
manity."
" Will posterity believe, that those pro
consuls, those Angels of death, whom sena
torial Tartarus vomited on France, were
ftnt to rob, violate, guillotine, drown, e
goi'ge, (hoot, demolilh yet this was their
million, the deftruftion of the human race
did not even fatisfy their rage ; \jhen men
were not to be found, they destroyed works
of arts—the noblest monuments of human
ingenuity. Towns disappeared under the
stroke of the axe—flames effaced cities. O
posterity ! you will withhold your belief of
it! listen then, and tremble.
» The lame? of some of those procon- I
fills, you will find in the history, we (hall
leave you ; your aftonidied eyes will there
fee pieces, the authentic witnesseS of faCls
which we fnall only hint at here ; some of
those proconsuls killed with their own
hands the prisoners who made any com
plaints ; some covered with the dress of Re
presentatives of the People, mounting the
fcaffolds to harrangue x the unfortunate vic
tims about to die ; some cruelly, dragged
out women to be fpe&ators of the unjult
massacre of their hufbagtis; some threatened
to punish health officers, for having afford
ed medical afliftance to unhappy prisoners."
" Others caused citizens to be dragged
before tribunals or popular commissioners,
and said to the judges, " Condemn them,
or the fcaffold awaits you." Three judges
and one jurrie (or juryman) of the revolu
tionary tribunal of Paris, of the firft organi
zation, were torn to pieces, for wilhing to
acquit fgmeaccufed persons."
" Others {topped men and women in'the
streets, whose looks difplcafed them, caufetl
them to be brought before the tribunals,
where men hired by them for the purpose
as witnesses, appeared against them, the 1
judges were forced to pass fenterjee." * 1
" Another wrote to the authority of the
department of the Sommt where he was in ;
million, as well as to the committee of ge- 1
neral fafety of the convention :—" I have i
spread my large net to take all my guil- 1
LpTiNE game—l have finilhed loading for- 1
ty-four cart loads." (
" This proconsul iflued mandates of ar- 1
reflation against young women and girls, 1
and kept them in his apartment." i
" Others placed themselves at the win- c
dovvs in light of the fcaffold, demoli(hed the 1
buildings which might intercept the prof- j
pe£l, and there calmly tifted the horrid plea- s
sure of feeing rivers /of innocent blood f
spilt." r
" A woman dared to ask of one of th»fe j
monsters the liberation of herhufband—To- \
morrow, answered he, you will fee his head 1
on one fide of the guillotine and his body on a
the other. He was as good as hi 3 word." c
" Another obliged a young and beautiful a
w6man, who folicired the liberty of her 1
hu(band, to grant him some favors. The 1
great affection (he had for her husband, de- '
termiued her to the facnfice of her honor— h
(he inflantly flew to the prison to acquaint b
him ; that he was no more a prisoner,- telling I
him in confidence of the facrifice (he had e
made to obtain his liberty - Some days after, n
this proconsul guillotined the hulband, and a
even the wife."
" Another saw a girl in tears, imploring
at his feet, the suspension of the judgment, J
of her father ; tears aud prayers are of no .
avail; the proconsul kicks her from him, f
and tears her petition. Diftradted by grief' d
some expreflions escape her ; he had her ar- g
rcfted and dragged before the revolutionary «
tribunal of Paris—She was seven months t!
pregnant, when guillotined."' a
" Another, at the issue of an orgie, wilh- a
ed to fee a fh'r.v ; the judges were at the f;
feaft ; four prieltsand four nuns were drawn c
out of the dungeons, they appeared, were e
condemned and pcri(hc.d, after which the' si
guests put themselves at table again." • a:
Auother parodying the faying of Ti* h
" tui, said, " Lihfcrtjr his L.l * u no oiitfO—l
, has been guillotined." -
" Another bniijgtit up and
- guillotined an old man of So fmp, father
- of twelve children, under a pretext of hit
1 having monopolized the offices of mayor'and
,of judge of the peace. The'true motive wai
r an old personal referitmerit."
, " There is irr.t wheat enbugh in France
- for all the population, ftid another it is
•i neeeflary to facriirce half to nourish the re
e mainder.-—Above all, we ought to destroy
j- the women,. they breed too fall."
" Another burnt whole communes, and
3 guillotined part of the inhabitants."
t " Theft efcortcd by cannon, raised con
r tributibns to pay the debauches they were
• guilty of with the pretorian guards, and
- granted only four hours to funiift the sum
l demanded."
; ~ " These took to themselves the most beau
; tiful palaces in the cities where they (laid *
> affefting t,he pomp and - ease of kings; and
while the people overrun the court yards of
t tiieir palaces to wait their presence and
- bread, they indolently reclined on fophas in
, the interior of their seraglios, glowly occu
> PV'ng themselves with the important bufi
t ness of getting their likenefTes taken. 'The
! fa& took place at Bourdeaux."
f Instances of more {hooking crueW*s
f bound in this work of fix - volumes oftavo,
i which some other fnode besides a newfpaptr,
? will convey a history of to the world. The
s men who were principal aftors in the bloody
, scenes above described, are many of them
? flill in power, and will continue to exercise
: authority over the French people till the
- avenging arm of national juftiee shall cruih
1 them. As Barras, who was president of
the felf-created, blood-stained Directory,
- when his man Monroe presented his letters of
1 recal, has become known by name to the
; citizens' of the United States, from his in
, fulting language to the people of thi* eoun
• try in answer to citizen Monfoe's address, I
• thought proper to give feme account of said
Barras from the foregoing work.
" Our colleagues Freron, Barras, Sali
cetti, Gafparin, Robespierre the younger,
and general marquis Delapeype,
law of Freron, have charged themselves to
attend to the (hooting 800 inhabitants of
Toulon, to guillotine all the federalifts of
MarfeiHes, as well as to demolish the most
elegant monuments of art in this city, and
to del«ge with blood all the south of
France.' 1 "
Barras is the monster who was foremoft in
all the bloody maflacres of Robespierre
who voted for the death of his colleagues—
who headed the army against the fedtions of
Paris to force their acceptance of the prel'ent
constitution, on which day thonfands of va
luable lives were loft—who owes his feat in
the Direftery to-the monsters whose feats in
the Legislative Body he secured by force
and usurpation—who is a rank jacobin, an
enemy to peace in Europe, and a most bit
ter foe to the morally fubhnse heroes'who *
have administered ourgovernment,and whose
adminifl ration has been firm, pure, patri- *
otic and attended with a felicity which ap
pears incredible, when we consider the stu
died, continued system of disorganization
which has been praftifed in this country by
•every one of theagents of Jacobinism, Ame
ricans ns well as French. The moral charac
ter of Barras it notorious, the marriage tie
with him is an inducement to intrigue: lewd
to excess—-he disregards the most sacred feel
ings of humanity when they offer a barrier
to the gratification of his lust.—Yet not
withstanding the depravity of Barras, he is
the bosom friend of our immaculate ex-mi
nister Monroe—they held together their
nocturnal orgies and midnight associations,
they " parted with regret," but not before
Barras gave his dearMonroe a farewell feafl,
to which a great mob was invited, and a
mong the reft an opera girl by the name of
Clotilde, upon whose entrance, Mrs. Mon
roe, and the lady of the Venetian ambafTador
thought proper to retire. It is well knowt>
that Mr. Monroe was on'terms of the great
est intimacy with all the jacobin party at
Paris, a party who are most inimical to peace
and to the United but happily for
the human race whose reign is certainly
'hort. Not with (landing Mr.iMonroe might
be in dangerof losing his head from -?ue mo
derate party who are getting the whip hand
of the Jacobins, for the decided part he has
taken with ttt latter, still lam glad lie is a- ,
mong us, where, if he is detested and ex
ecrated, his life will not be in danger, -nor
our national charafter tarnished by the igno
minious fate of one of our ex-ministers
Although the people of these ftatesjuftly
ascribe the embarraflmeats they have felt
from I'rench depredations, openly and cri
minally passive, if not secretly aftive, in a
great measure, totheconduft ofMr. M e
whi': in France, still to prove himfelf not
so abandoned as to be altogether loft to
all regard for public opinion, he ought to
come forward to disprove the charge made
against him by Mr. Harper in the House of
Representatives of " being a traitor and of
having betrayed the intereftsof hiscountry.'*
1 his unqualified charge now stands against
him, and I believe ever will, an I am cred*
bly informed Mr. Giles called upon Mi:.
Harper, refpedting the business, who /hew
ed him such proofs and documents as ituu
ned even Mr. Giles into fileni astonishment
at the patriotiim and virtue of Iw's friend.
„.-New York, Au.puft JB, 1707. \
MjfrCM'LiAH SC Lahc.. V
/ Gsnt/emen,
/ In; Sir John Pringle's observations on the /
difeales of the army, 13 the following para- /
graph :—" According to the various de
grees of beat and moisture of the
the epidemic diseases begin earlier or later,
are oi longer t>r shorter duration, and are
attended, with milder or more alarming
fypiptqms. Wh?a heats come'on soon, ,gnd
continue throughout autumn, not moderat
ed by winds and rains, the season proves
sickly, the distempers appear car'iv, a'id
art; dangerous: but when the ftiuimcr is
late, w! tempered by frequent uioncrsv»ind< 01' if tVto nutiMr.nai void,; begU early,
the -'feafes arc few, their symptoms miLl,
and their cure easy."
The fi-ft is a -jirft description of the Hate
of the air, wcathir, and the effeCts of the
fame daring the Cummer and autumn of
179;,. and t\ie last of the pall ftimmer, and
that part of autumn gone by. The pri«f.
peCt is, thr,t in the remainder, ,we flinll
have early colds. What a call for grati
tude to the Sovereip;n Ruler of the ufliverfe,
for his diftifignfrhtng' naercy. to this city,
that we have, and do ttill enjoy such wea
ther and state of the air, as ha 3 hfen, and
may yet be conducive to the general health
of the inhabitants. What motive to con
tinue our exertions in keeping our houses,
yards, streets, and docks clean, and in co
operating with our worthy healtli commis
sioners, in the measures recommended for
preventing the introduction of contagious
diseases. We have reason to hope, that by
God's blefiing on our exertions, we may
escape the introduction of the yellow fever,
or should it unhappily make its appearance,
check its progress. A few inifances of
that, or of other malignant fevers, should
not be much cause of alarm—the last has,
more or less, prevailed in this city for a
number of years part, and which is always
the cafe in populous cities, at certain sea
sons, and in particu'ar situations ; yet ex
perience has taught us, that by the use of
proper precautions, the effeCts of contagion
may be in a meafure counteracted.
In the year 1793/ while the yellow fever
was so mortal in Philadelphia, 'several cases
were introduced in this city, and although
mortal to the sick, few or none of the at
tendants on the sick, took the disease ; and
Svhile the fevei; raged in tW city in 1795,
its mortality was not extended far from its
■ fouree, with the removal of the sick to airy
situations. Should" contagious disease make
its appearance in this, city, which God for
bid, next to the most early application for
medical affiftancc, the following, has been
found very beneficial to the sick, and de
struCtive to contagion.
. " Removing the patient from places
filled with corrupted air.
" Correcting the air from which he
canuot be removed.
" Avoiding the accumulation of the
patient's own effluvia, by a conftani
ventilation.
" Frequently changing the bed clothes r
and body linen.
" Removing carefully and speedily all
excremental matter."
To which may be added—
Irnmerfing the clothing, &c. taken
from the sick, into cold water, but
by no means into hot at firft.
Removing all fuperfluous woolens and
cottons out of the sick room, and
every thing that may retain infec
tion.
Sprinkling, the sick room and houle
with vinegar.
Fumigating the fame with, the fmoak
6f gno powder burnt, brown sugar,
eafcarella bark or other odoriferous
barks or jtfftods ; a small quantity of
cinnamon bark burnt has been found
to changcthe air and smell of things
in a sick room, better and for a
longer time than any thing else.
The lteam of camphorated
warmed, is very good.
Cleanliness, especially, ought to be striCt
ly observed ; and if the room the sick are
removed in, had been previoudy whifre
wafhed, scoured, well aired, and dried, it
would have a remarkable good tendency.
Mr. Howard, while detained in the Laza
retto at Venice, experienced the most sur
prising good effeCts, resulting frosa white
washing the room h« was in.—See his ac
count of P»g e 2 -
I could give you a number of instances,
in which air, efpecial|fy that most replete
with nitrous particles, fire and fmoak, wa
ter and vinegar, and lime properly applied,
have been found the most powerful agents
for destroying infection and contagion—but
must conclude this long letter with one more
observation—Let the sick be attended by
none who are fearful of the disease, intem
perate, or indisposed themselves.
I remain, gentlemen,
Your old tViend and well-wi(her,
A. B.
"foreign intelligence.
BRUXELLES, July 8.
Letters from the Hague remark, that all
the best generals of the Batavian republic,
who are in th'e service, who are in the fer
tice, are aCtually at the Texel; and appear
ready to embark with 10,000 troops. This
circumllance, and the enormous > quantity
of provisions of all kinds, now on board the
ships, make us believe that there is an expe
dition designed against the Cape of Good
Hope. The Dutch troops discover great
aversion from this voyage, and some have e-
Yen refufed to embark.
BREST, July 1.
You believe there is prepared here, a for
midable armament; that we are going to
put to Tea a naval force of 66 ships of the
* line, like that of Count d'Orvillier, which,
in conjunction with the Spaniards, perform
ed such fine mancevres, and such little deeds
in the last war ; or like the invincible fleet
of Philip 11. or of Hoche, whicH were
both vanquished without a combat.
Your journalists make a frightful noise a-,
tout our thousand (hips, which are going to
cariV terrror and death to the shores of Al
bion. But this is the simple, mqdeft truth
—we have 4 (hips of the line, 6 frigates, and
some corvettes. This , division will proteCt
that which i 6 at Bertheaume, and the arri
val of the convoys.
No one thinks here of the projeft of a ie
eon'l rlefcent. The prudence of the authors
of the firft does not shine in the diMers of
Bantry Bay. There is no doubt but there
are men, void of experience, and endued
with fufticieut presumption and folly, to puff
out projeifts of the Directory, at once mur
derous and ruinous ; but t!n;y will be ne
ceflarily restrained for some time at least by :
the weakness of our marine. With money, 1
sailors may be procured ; but there are not ]
more than 26 ships which can be / ferit from ;
Brest. Those which are begun to be built 1
are' exa&ly as forward as they were three 1
three years ago. v ou t h en t j, at we mu st ,
adjourn the conquest ofEogland, andbound i
our views, by peace, which is worth more I
than even fuccefaful invasions. 1
•' 1
LONDON, July 5.* <
In the note dated from Downing 1
refpeCtitig Lord Malmefbury's embaTiy to ;
Lisle, mentioned in the Gazette of Satur- i
day last, we find the acknowledgement <
that we recolleft of the French Republic, on 1
the part of his majefty. i
The Repulse of 64 guns, capt. Alms, iV 1
come to Chathpni to be docked. This is i
the (hip which the crew of the Monmouth '
so very uncivilly handled on her late attempt '
to escape from the mutinous (hips at the <
Nore She is very materially damaged, 1
particularly in her quarters and (tern. t
There are now on board the Eagle prison 1
(hip, 256 prisoners taken from different (hips (
in the late unhappy mutiny. They ' are ) 1
not fuffered to come on deck, on any pre- \i
ttence: nor are boats fuffered to go along- t
fide. ' | f
On Sunday afternoon, about four o'clock i r
an express arrived from Colchester, with an 1
account, that the crew of the French priva- ' «
teer had landed at Great Clacton, about 15 1 1
miles from thence, and were proceeding to 1
cotnmit depiedations upon the coast. At
the fame time, orders came from Sir W. t
Howe, commander in chief, for some of the 1
flying artillery, and a detachment of the 1
Warwick fencible cavalry, to proceed to 1
Clacton. About five miles from their defti- <
nation, they learned that the men were all 1
taken. It appears that tHey were the crew I
of the French privateer; that captain Adams
of a Excise cutter belonging to Harwich, 1
had ran on (hore, and the crew had for some 1
time escaped. They were in number 24, 1
and were'conveyed with the vessel to Har- 1
,wich: (he is a lugger; was close in (hore I
when cjipt. Adams fell in with her; and, 1
after the crew hnd escaped on (hore, part of 1
captain Atfems'* men, aflifted by the far
mers and their men, secured them. They
had done no mifchief.
Mr. Todd, of the Hull, has lately inven
ted a new Hydraulic pump, of very Angular
properties, viz. it will raise twice the quan
tity of water by the force of the common
piston, can be converted into a fire engine
by the addition of a leather tube and fire
pipe, and can water an acre or ground in
five minutes, in the fame manner if it hadbeen
rained on for four hours, by the application
of the large watering pot, at the end of the
sice tube; it is workedby the hand winch,
and accelerated by a fly wheel.
STATE PAPER.
Answer of the Spani/h miiufler to a memorial
or rrmonflrance, presented by citizen Perig
non, French ambnjfador at Madrid, upon
the defeat of the Spanifb fleet, off Cape St.
Vincent, by the Britifb fleet. #
" CITIZEN AMBASSADOR,
" I have, with great reluCtance, laid be
fore the king, the heads and purport of the
memo'rial presented by your excellency, in ■
the name of the directory of the French re- '
public ; I fay the heads of the memorial,
becanfe the language it contains is couched
in terms so offenfive, so debasing, and so
infolant, to the ears of a free people, that
I deemed it quite inconsistent with the dig
nity of my station, to present it in the form 1
in which it ftcod, to an independent fove- J
reign.
" The king, fir, laments with great sin
cerity, the unexpected and severe loss which j
has befallen his majesty's arms in the late
engagement with the British fleet ; and is
naturally led in support of his own honor,
as well as the honor of the Spanish nation,
to make a becoming enquiry into the cause
of that misfortune : but he will not fuffer
for a moment, the directory of the French
republic, nor any foreign power whatever,
to.assume a privilege of interfering in the
smallest degree with the concerns of his
kingdom.
" It is true, as dated in the memorial of
your masters, that tbt r.aval arms of Spain,
have hitherto been eminently diftingui(hed
among nations, and on that account any hu
miliation at sea is felt'with' the greater force
and mortification by Ms majesty. But it
cannot but seem very extraordinary indeed
to the king, and to his majesty's subjeCts in
general, that the loss of'one aCtion should b»
viewed as a matter of surprize by the French
nation ; surely, fir, the direftory ot the
French republic are not unacquainted with
the reproach of a naval defeat : they are
pleased to observe, that the Spanish flag has
fuffered a remarkable disgrace to its honor,
and that they as the allies to his Catholic
majesty, cannot with indifference behold
such turpitude. Are these gentlemen th"
members of the fame assembly, who embark
ed on board your fleet on the three memora
ble days of the 30th and 31ft of May, and
the lit of June ? Are these gentlemen the
commissioners who assumed the rank and
station of naval field marSials on that pcca
fien ? Who, before the commencement of
the aCtion with *he Britifli fleet, sent a fri
gate with ail insolent message to each (hip
of the line, viz. That the commjflioners
gave positive orders to the separate captains
that they were to fink to the bottom every
engli(h man of war, only excepting the Roy
al Charlotte, which carried the British com
mander's flag : out of their mercy, that (hip
they were to spare, but they were to bring
her fafe into the harbour of Brest, in order
to grace the triumph of the glorious new re
public but who, in the end, were glad to
make their escape from the cowardly Eng
' lifti, with the loft of nine capital ships : afid
are these the gentlemen who are prescribing
to the king of Spain, what jpuulfhment he
is to infliiS upon the commanders of the ,
Spanish fleet, for the loss of one battle,
while the En.glifh have in their pofTeflion
at this moment one half of their navy ? We
did not hear,' fir, of any punishment piro
pofed by the directory for 1 the dtf:r,t of
your impregnable fleet on the Ift of June.
On the contrary, it was afTerted in the so
lemn assembly, that for the arms of France
ever to meet the English in an adlion at Tea,
it was of itfelf fufficient, and equal to a vic
tory. I am stating here to your excellen- j
Cy, the history of three days only of the
naval exploits of your republic, but almost i
every day since its commencement might i
have accilftomed the eats and the eyes of
your dire&ory to the turpitude of naval de
feats ; therefore, previous to your excellen
cy's approaching the presence of his majef- : ,
ty, where you threaten to speak your opin- I
ion of the guilt of the officers ,who com- •
manded his fleet, I would advise you, as a
friend and ally, to balance the disgrace of
the two nations ; take in one hand the
lingle defeat of the arms of Spain, off the
Cape of St. Vincent's, while in the other
you carry the various defeats and difgrac/s
that have befallen the navy of the French
republic ever since the commencement of its
career, and fee which weighs the heaviest.
Your direftorv will then be convinced, that
for either of our two nations to attempt to
bring reproach upon the other, for their in
feriority to the other in naval skill and cou
rage, is nothing else than to arraign the Al
mighty Power, who has thought it good
and proper to grant the decided superiority
upon the wide antj extended ocean, to that
brave people. -
" The king, ray mailer, has, in the mean
time, commanded me to fignify to the mem
bers of the French republic, that whether it
be true or not, that it\'s the infirmity of go
vernments, as they state, to be seized with
certain cancers, which contaminate and cor
rupt the state,(it is not/his majesty's inten-'
tinu to follow the example of regenerated
France, by applying caustics and the knife
to remedy that evil ; for which reason he
has ncf occasion to fufpeiid, even for a mo
ment, the di&ates of his paternal affe&ion
towards the fubjeft of his own states, which
he is more than ever determined to cherish
and' cultivate ; being firmly persuaded, by
his own observation, and which is confirmed
by the hiflorical experience of all nations,
that no evil can be so great as to submit to
the tyranny s and oppreflion of a foreign go
vernment, nurtured and supported by the
very dregs of the lower order of society."
By this day's Ma]].
NEW-YORK, September 5.
There were several MOMENTOUS
reports in circulation yesterday—such as, de
feat of the Spanish fleet; cutting of throats
at Paris ; breaking off nejrociations ; renew
al of the waii with Austria ; &c. but we
could not trace'them to any certain source.
We shall know further on these important
points by this day's southern mail.
( Argus. J
On the Z2d inS. Mr. John Koomc was
committed to the common gaol of this city,
on the suit of Mr. Luke Kelly, for the sum
of thirty-fevtn cents, with one hundred and
cents COST !
Last evening the citizens were delighted
with the musical bells erefted in the steeple
; of Trinity church, the found of which is
charming, and exceeds any thing of the
kind in America.
BOSTON, September {>
NEWS OF EUROPE.
Capt. Ives, who arrived yesterday from
Amsterdam, on Wednesday spoke with the
capt. of the ship Sea Horse, .from Brttir
deaux for Cape Ann, out 50 days, who
| had spoken with the capt. of an English
frigate, who had fpoktn with the capt. df
a British packet, from Falmouth for Hal
lifax, then off Sambre, wfyo informed, that
a general peace was concluded previous to
his quitting England.
A gentleman, who arrived in town yes
terday from Newport, acquaints us with
the arrival there of the Tanner, M®cey,
|in 32 day* from Kinfale, Ireland. No pa
| pers were brought ; but verbal information
| stated, that all was tranquil and orderly in
j that island. On 'her passage, the vessel was
I boarded from 4 frigates, examined
1 very ftridtyy, but finally fuffered to proceed.
Htr cargo was '
Paris, June 26.
Rear admiral Riehery has met with an
accident which has deranged his intelledtual
faculties.
London, July 3.
In the Historian, an avowedly Jacobin
journal, of June 29, "we find the following
remarkable afTertions: " The lift of the
devoted members is made out. It consists
of the greater part of the last two-thirds,
with about twenty of thefirft thud. After
their death, a revolutionary government is
to be proclaimed Until a peace shall have
been concluded."
The Senora del Rofario, of 20
guns and 100 men, commanded by Don
Juan Antonio de Carega, was captured
without a shot fired.
[The gazettes contain a letttr from admiral
Kingfmill, relating the capture of the
Spanish- privateer brig Sau FrSncifco,
alias Les Armigos, of 14 guns and 53
, men, by the Margaretta, eapt. Parker.
. Another /from admiral fir Peter Parker,
giving an account of the capture of-the
French privateer Le Suecefs, of 6 guns
and 42 men, by the Telemachus cutter,
lieut. Newton, with the latter'e letter on
, the fame/übjett.
r Likewise a letter from capt. Bowater, of
[ the Trent, relating the capture of the
Poiffon Volapt, French lugger privateer,
} of 14 gui\s and 50 men.]
The I'itepus Virgin Maria, a French
j privateer from Malaga, has been taken by
T an Englifn stoop of war iu the Mediterra
-1 I neau.
The courts martial proceed in the trial I
of the principals in > the late mutiny. A
London paper of July 3, contains the trial
of W'lhara Welch and one Lee : the latter
mentioned in the course of his defence, that
he had travelled through the greatest part
of the United States. Their f'entenees are
not contained in the above paper.
The letter of one Morris, alluded to
in the last Centinel, we have had by us
more than a month. We intended giving
it publicity, but interesting Intelligence fre
quently intervening, the efforts to set fire
to towns having ceased, and a curious ec
centricity in the lptter, lessening its impor
tance in our minds} we have thus far de
ferred it. In our next, ho*-ever ? (if it is
not previously ppbliflled) we shall present it
entire.
Hon. Bailey Bartlet is probably
•hofen federal representative, vice Mr.
Bradbury resigned.
On Monday, the inhabitants of Ports
mouth afTembled to vote for a representative
in congress, vice Mr. J. Smith resigned,
when W. Langdon, Esq. had 387 ; E. S,
Ljvermore, Esq. 38 ; and P. Sprague,
Esq. 21.
A person ill with a malignant fever, was
yesterday removed to Hospital Island, We .
feel - the most compleat assurance, that the
vigilance of our Sele&men, will preserve the
Health of the town. Boston was never
moi;e healthy than at present. *
By the request of the Seleftmen Hrs Ex
cellency the Governor has direfted that all
vessels from the Weft India Islands, Spanish
Maine, \or ports of the U. S. to the South
ward of New-York, he detained at Caflle
William, till afcertaioed co be free from a
uy infectious distemper.
Yesterday afternoon arrived here, the
Chevalier Don Carlos Martinez de
Yrujo, Miniller Plenipotentiary of his
Catholic Mjefty to the Federal Govern
ment, on a tour throught the Eastern
Statts.
alette,
PHILADELPHIA,
WEDNESDAY EVENING, Sf ptembfr 6.
CITY HOSPITAL REPORT,
From sth to 6th September, inthe Morning.
Admitted, since last report',
Peggy Sileox, opposite Norris's,
alley
Elizabeth Ellis, Mifflin's alley
Elizabeth do. (her daughter) do.
Mary do. (infant do.) do.
Sarah do. (infant do.) do.
Daniel Sifco, workhouse
Henry Titt, Harrowgate, taken in the ftt.
Jane Montgomery, taken in the streets.
Polly Varinele, Third, 2 doors below Chris
tian Street.
Thos. Bute, Thomas Hardy's, Golden
Swan, North Third Steret.
Thos. Townfend (a lad) Hill, Tobacco
nist, New Market.
Nely Coneli, Second Street, 3d door below
Catharine street.
Hugh Parry (a lad) C. Martin's, Little
Water street, 2d door to South.
Di scharged.
Wm. Overman, admitted 31ft ult.
Henry Gingle, 3d inft.
DI ED.
.Nathaniel Foster, admitted Ift inft.
Mary EUis (aged 16 months) 8 hours af
ter admiffiou.
Remaining last Report 26
Admitted, 13
39
Discharged 2
Died 2 4
Remain in Hospital, 35
Convalescents 6
Sick 29
Account of hurials in city ho r pital burying
ground, from sth to 6th September, ip
the morning :
From the city and suburbs 2
From the city hospital 2
Total 4
The Committee also report that since yes
terday morning persons were appointed'who
continue night and ijay at the City Hospi
tal burying ground to inter such bodies as
may be sent from th,e city by ordft- of the
Health Officer, as well as from the City
Hospital, and to keep a regular account of
such interments. . y
Stephen Gir.ard,
(Signed) Caleb Lown«s,
John Connelly.
General KoscU'SKO, we hear, ha* lcf' the city,
on a visit to Genera! White, of Ntw.Brunfwick.
Before he left town. We understand, a gentlenian
in office presented him with a land warrjnt, to
which he was entitled by his services, and intima
ted there v.-as a sum of money due to him, for hi.
services in the cause of .this country. W« under
stand that the General that whilll fortune
smiled upon him at home, he had no intention of ■
any pecuniary reward from the United States, but
thit, in his prelent circumstances, he should not
deoline, the acceptance of what appeared to be his
due. We believe that, with principal and inureft,
his pay will not amount to left than 18 or io.oco
] do'lars, as the Pel *al entered : nto the service » a
Colonel df Engineers, in O&obcr, 1776, and re
mained till th; end of the war. 7he land war
rajif, we are told, the General presented to a
Welch Farmer, of the name of Thomas, who was
a passenger in the fame ship, and of whim he had
conceived a high opinion.
A Jacobin wolf at Hull has bowleg over the ash
es of the great Burke. This i* N f'et in oppotitior,
by Bache to the honorable mention cf him in the'
j Gazette cf the IJnitrd States. Bafeas ate the Eo
| gliik Jacobins, they at lenfl are equalled in f.nliA*
by our own. No one will find any difficulty.
' therefore, iraffleeing with thecitizeu Editar that
it would be n: tural to fuppcfe the latter either a
fellow-citizen giving ver.tfto his leelir.gs at tlii
breach ill the harrier the public weal, or s.
foreigner payinghisrev r.ntialtribute to the worth'
of the departeii; aud the.fo'mrf a Freuih or st
American Jacobin, gnaftitig his tecth and ventipj-,
curies »vcr the mones of t'-e corft nt aa<i " deter
mined !c : e" of the whole 'venal" Land.
QAZETIE MARINE LIST7~
\' '
Post of Philadelphia..
ARRIVED, DAYS*
Slocp Felly, Rile-/, New Lendon g
C.jnts up from the Fort.
Ship Jofephtis. tfHkirw, Martini*#
Erig, Fntcrprire, I.:mgdon, Jamaica
Schr.Friendthip, Odhn, Acquiil
Arrived at the Fort*
Ship Jean, M'Pherfon >St. Kitt»
CLEARED*
Bfigjenfiy, Alcorn, La Guira
Weft tndian.i Carlton, I.anceVcau
Schr. Patriot, Hammett, , \Vilmingon
Rambler. Clark, Currjcoa
Ifsbella, Urifcolc, Jamaica
Thefeliooncr FriendiUlp, OdKn, ha?gqne op ia
Burlington tP linifli her qrarastine.
New York, September 4th.
\ ARRIVED. DafS
Brig Bellona,-Crooker, Savannah 6
Julia, Graham, M.irtinico 10 ■
Chatham, S*nwood, Jamaica 21
Sc{ir. Quaker, Ddvel, St. John's, n. b. 10 -
Sallv, Lane, do. -
Galiatia, London,' 'Guadaloupe 16
Betsey, Brewer, Newbern 6
Arrived brig' Julia, capt. Graham, 20
days from Martinique. Capt. Graham was
informed from good authority at Martinique
that there were 12 fail of Dutch ma of war
cruizing offDemarara^
Handed for publication by the mate of
the English tranfportj Two Brothers,
Sixty four failof Englift ships frota Fal
mouth bound to Barbadoes, under convoy
of the ThamesHrigate and Scourge sloop of
war 011 the 23dlaft July at 4 o'clock (morn)
made the land and breakers, close aboard,
the frigate struck, and 17 fail of merchant
men on the Ctibler's rocks, north end of
Barbadoes, two of which went down, all
hands loft, their havoes unknown. Four
more totally loft, all hands fared, viz. Three
Brothers, transport, the Prince Willianl
Henry, tVanl'port, the Ellen and Jackson/
Welt Indiamin.
Capt. Dyer of the (hip John and Phcebe,
from Liverpool, handed us the following in
formation, *iz. on the icth of July, whe*
15 days dut frpm Liverpool, in lat. 49,100.
17, was brought to by 3 (hot, from the
French privateer Viftoranc, of 16 gnnS,
and belonging toNautz,at 8 o'clock, a. m.
i who plundered us of all our stores, broke
open all the letters, and tore other papers,
then ordered me on board the privateer, who
after some hours examination, put. a prize
master and 8 men on board the (hip ; at 8,
p. m. took out of the (hip my mate and f
seamen, leaving on board only I
t cook and boy, besides myfelf, and ordered
me for Nantz—July 12, ot 6, a.m. was
bro't to by the Briti(h frigate Unicorn, of
36 guns, capt. Young, who re-took us,'
treated us very politely, and ordered me to
proceed on my voyage. I represented to
capt. Young that without his assistance, £
eouldnot procecdfor want of hands ; he thea
very kindly offered me 4 of the Frenchmen,
which I acccepted and arrived fase in thi*
port. Tho' the utmoll vigilance was neces
sary to prevent them re-taking the veflel—•
The frigate went in pursuit of the privateer.
The captain of the privateer threatened"
1 not to let capt. Dyer on board his own (hip,
I except he swore the cargo was English pro
-1 perty —he likewise said he cxpefted war
woulfl be declored between France and th*
United States.
Charlejinn, Augujl 23.
Capt. Briggs, of the Daniftl fchoonet
Friendfliip, from Kingston, gives the follow-
I ing information, viz.
; .Two American brigs', named the Dol»
! phin ofßofton, and Recovery of Weathers.
field, the former commanded by capt. Gor
ham, the latter by capt. Vernon, failed freiu
Kingston about the 2cth July, for WiU
mington, North Carolina. The brig Re*
cdvery had a few guns put on board to pro
test herfelf and the Dolphin from pirates.
Capt. Briggs fell in with these two veflel*
off Cape St. Antonio, and T>eing acquaint
ed with the captains, he ran close up to the
Recovery, and the firft fa'iutation was a gun
fired at him, and he was immediately or
dered to come to anchor, which he did with
all expedition ; but they dill kept firing at
him, and at lall boarded him ; they carried
him on board the brig, and there informed
him thit the day before cajlt. Vernon went
so dine on board the Dolphin, and part of
the crew Jxring Frenchmen, fqur or five in.
number, they took that opportunity of re
volting against the mate and remaining A
mericans on board, and took poffefiion of
the brig, to carry her, as they skid, into th*
Havanna. They told capt. Briggs' the
mate had jumped over board to escape to
the other brig ; but from the blood he saw
on deck,'and other circumstances, he fear*
the poor fellow haa been murdered. They
threatened to carry capt. Brigg3 to the Ha
vanna, he being from an jSnglilh port ; but
after extorting a little money from him, he
was permitted to proceed on.
They told capt. Briggs, on leaving him,
they were determined to pursue the other
brig, (then in fight) and fink her ; for the
captain, thfey said, was a d—d American
b—r.
Capt. • Briggs was afterwards boarded off
the Havanna, by a Spanilh frigate, and wa»
treated with the greatest civility and polite
ness ; he gave the capt. of the frigate infor
mation of the aforementioned business.
BALTIMORE, September 2.
For thtfe two eveningspaft, the Comet
which was leen to the .qaftward, has been
obfervedhere On his wy to the Sun. His
diredtion last evening appeared to the eye a
bout E. 8. E. Through a common glass be
appears of a confiderabk magnitude, and to
travel with great veloc. 'v. We hope the
learned and curious in astronomical research
es, will not fuffer the oppoitunity of being
'.till better acquainted with this phtnomei;©*
of nature, to efcaps them unimproved.H E BOLIAIIS R-EiVARf). J
Y) AN array from the subscriber, an indented j
Servant Girl, named Navcy -
i.oi-t twepty yvars of age, short, thick set pcrfon,
w<th short I)lack hair ; had on when {he went away,
a dark calico govVn, an old black, silk cloak, and a
black fur hat. Whocv r will ftcure -laid girl, and
'give information thereof to the fubicriber, No. a,
Greei}le*?f i lley, or to the office this Gazette,
Cxt.i I reci'ivc,the abov.- reward,
All pvifons are fcrhid harboring fold girl, a*
they will be dealt with as thp law dire As.
MARY ANDERSON,
N..&. Said Girl is from Ireland, and has been i*
this. u)untry but a short time ; fh.e was ft nt to th»
\vork-houfe for mifconduA, where ine was taken
firk and removed to city-hofpitil, from which
place ft*" made her escape.
/tugnfl 30. eo 31
Jl'o he fold -at Public Vendue,
To ilu- hijjlieft bidder, »t the Louse c£ Mr.
William Evan:, the sign of' the Indian
in the city of Baltimore, on the ajth
tjay sf O<3ober ne.\t, at 11 o'clock, A. M
About seven thousand acres of land,
the property of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
lyiug between Reifter's-towr and \\ eftrrjinftpr,
commonly called I.ittle Wi'- befter, (the turn
pike road runs through a cotifidorablc part of
these lands) the trae'f begins about 17 miles
from Baltimore, within a few hundred yai'ds
of laid ReillerVtown, and extendi to the dil
tance of about twenty-three milts from Balti
' more, snd lies on the main falls of PatapHco
river, from three to four miles thereon. Will
be fcM in trail's 01 one hundred and fifty to
three h'Jrtdred acre. There is a large propor
ti; nof mtadoiv and wood land on each traiS,
lonic of them highly improved, with excellent
buildings and fine gr fs.
ALSO
A tract of seven hundred acres of
culled Clover Farms, within five miles of
1 .'adenftiurg, esteemed very good for Grass.
Richard PcnfonWy,of Bladenfburgh, will (hew :
tliia land to any ptrfon inclined to purchase. !
also,
A tra£l of land As about three hun
drel and thirty acres, within about two miles 1
and a half o, the President's house in the Fede- '
ral City, ft is nearly all wood land, and a, fine
high profpetfl, fron, which may be fcen the
city of Walhington, Bladenfburgh, Alexandria
and a part of George-town, and many miles
down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard Por.fou
by, of Bladerfburg, will also flsew this land. :
A liberal credit will be given for the'greateft
part of 4he purchase money. J'he terms will- (
fee . made knowp on the day of sale.
May 8 wm j
Just Received, !
From Baravia (via Providence)
a few Boxtsof Spices, confiiting of
Nutmegs, Cloves and Mace
for sale by 1
K ILLINGS y FRANCIS.
Penn. street.
way 3° dtf J
Davis's Law Book Store, t !
No. 319, High-Street. j
GEORGE DAVIS,
BEING busied for fomc time past in prepara- 1
tions for removing into his profent houft, has
been under thcnecefiityof poftponinguntil this day ,
informing the gentlemen ofthe Bar generally thro' .
the Da,ted States, that his spring importation tf
law hot ks ii now arranged and ready for (ale, on "
teimsthat he trusts will entitle him to the like pre
/rteoce he has experienced for ftvcral years pad.
Catalogues, combining the mod varied collec
tiou ever imported iiit® this country, are printed
and will be delivered oh application.
. June 17. ' law 6v* 1
♦ ... R
City Commijfioners' Office, r
Jure tl, 1797. ''
IN purfuanre tf ail ordinance from the fele<ft 8
and common councils, pafled the aid day of v
May la(l, appointing the city ceriimifiioneri,
and prescribing their duties, feflion 9th,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
That the city is divided into five diitri&s,
each to be under thte fuperintendance of one of
the city eommiflioners, who is to he individually
relponfible for the cleanliness of the fame, and
are as follow. •
Driftridl No. t. From the Youth fide of Ce- ft
dai>ftrcet, to the north fide ofSpruce-ftreet, un
der the fuperistendence of Nathan Boys.
l.'From the north fide of Spruce-street, to
the north fide of VValnut-Ilreet, under thefuper
intendence of Hugh Roberts. 4,
3. I'romthe north fide of Walnut tothefouth
fide of High-street, under the superintendence of ~
Joseph Claypoole. L
4. From the north fide of High-street, to the
north fide of Mulberry street, under the fuptr- /
intendence of William Moulder.
From the north fide of Mulberry-street to
the north fide of Vine-street, under the super- r ~,
intendence of Nicholas Hicks.
The cleaningof High-street to be in common. 8'
A stated meeting of the city eommiflion-
*tf is held at the Old Cotirt House, in High
ftreet, every Tuesday evening at 5 o'clock. as
J"ly f 4- eo 1 m g
Stands for Draymen, <J?c. Ed
In pur/umnce of an Ordinance from theSelefi and m
Common Councils,bearing date the ixd day of th
yfpril, t providing for the appointment »f th
City Commi/Jioners, iffe. Se3. the Isth. "
r |" , HE following places are fixed upon by the ?!
J- said City Commissioners for Stands for
Dnymen and their Horses.,
111 Vine-flreet, eastward of Front-flreet, on
both fides.
Saftafras, High, Chefnut and Walnut-fttieets,
eastward of Ftont-flreet, on the no.'th fide only, m
Mulberry-ftrcet, south fide fram pYont to to
Third-street. te ,
1 Front-flreet, east fide 'from Vine-street to lie
Elr'rith's alley. <
Front-street, from opposite to Black Horfeal- w
ley to Hamilton's stores, east fide. rei
Watcr-ftreet, weft fide from the north end of th
Stunptr's or Moorp's stores to Pine-street. Un
Peun-ftreet from Pine to Ceiar-ltreet, w.eft Gt
fide. M
Drawbridge, north fide, east of Front-street. ""
Spruce, Pine and South streets, east of Frost
street, south I'de.
Dock-street, between Walnut-street and the
flag stone croftings, east fide, opposite George a
• Orltley's. b
Sceond-ftreet, between Safiafras and Vine ' ° u
flreets, weft fide.
Fifth-ftreet, east fide from Chefnut to Mul- j J
Kerry streets. •
Saffafras-ftreet, from Third to Fourth-street, '
east fide. ;
No dray or horse to stand within ten feet of j
arty pump. L,,,
STANDS FOR HACKNEY COACHES. y ni
Fine-street, north tide from" Fourth to-Fifth
ftreet'. wr .
Fifth-ftrt et, between Chefnut and Walnut ol. ; y
Jlreets, weit. ' . tr ; c
Branch-ftrcrt, north fide, between Third and froi
Fourth streets. fam
july 14. mw&fim piii.
'' I A Literary Treat.
I (V /) I
a- JKr pubiyhctl) handfomtly printed on writing
>r > paper, price I dollar,
iy, V new edition 6i that popular and entertaining
a work, snt'itled
nd an American Tale ; being
2, a. a [ quel to the history of John Bull, the Clo
te, thier—ln a fcriesof letters to a friend, with the ad
dition of t\\ o letters, alluding to recent political
a* tranfa&ions in America.
Thy following eitraft from the Clavis AHogoriea,
Ihevvs the principal clu.raAers that are introduced:
i* John Bull, the Kingdcwn of Jtngland
h# ' Hi-. Mother, tlieChurehof iingbnd ,
en I!is Wife, the Parliament
ch | Hi? Siller P«g, the cjiufch of Scotland
Hii Brother Patrick, Ireland
Lewis, the Kingdom of. France
His Mistress, the Old? Conllitution
His nzw Wile, the Nailonxl RtJjfefCiitation
[r. Lord Strut, the Kingdom of Spain
an fcichohs Trog, the Dutch Rxpublie
th f he Franks, the French Republic J
M The Foresters, the United Stares of Aiiierio
Robert Lumber, New-Hampshire 1
ia, John Codline, Maffach,ufetts j
rr, Humphrey Plow {hare, Conneilicut
n . Roger Carrier, Rhode Ifkmi I
q £ Peter Bull Fr©g, New-York
Julius Cxfar, New-Jersey
William Broadbrim, Peimfylvania t
; Caflimsrr, Delaware t
Walter Pipewood," Virginia
1 His Grandson, George Walhington
Peter Pitch, North Carolina :]
4 Charles Indigo, south Carolina h
tQ \ George Trufly, Georgia c
r_ Ethan Greenwood, Vermont
Hunter Longknifc, Kentucky c
nt Black Cattle, Negro Slaves * v
Rats, Spetulators
Mother jCarey's Chickens, Jacobins f,
)f C 5" This popular and entertaining satirical hifto- t
r ) r America is attributed to the Rev. Dr. Bel
p. knap. It hasagr#at (hare of orjginality and a- v
bounds with genuine humour. It is continued ►]
w ! down to the present time, and thofe
j late political tranfaAions which have caused so
much upeafinefs tn America.
L- Sold by H. and P.RICE, Bookfcller, No. 16, t ]
es ( South Second Street, and No. 50, Marke» ftjeet.
e- I J unc i 6«
|e LAW BOOKS, o
Lateli London and Dublin Editions. n
[[ P. RICE, BookfeUirs,
No. 16, South Second, and No. 50, Market'ftreet, b
ft T T AVE just received by the Kte arrivals from .C
lj AX London and Dublin, theii spring jmporta- 'a
tion, confiding o£ a variety of the latest and raoft
approved law Books, whicb, added to th oft alrea
dy on hand, forms the mcfl cxtcnlive eolle&ion ev
er oflered for sale in this country. They theiefore
beg leave to notitx, that from the nature of their
connedlicnsin Dublin, they are enabled to felllrifh
(as they have hitherto done) at the very ft
lowest prices. The following jre among the latest o
publications. \
Vefey, jun*rs Reports in Chancery, 2 v*.l«. ti
Peake's Cases at Nisi Prius ; Ridgeway's Report* t<
io the time of Lord Hardwickff ; Floyer'a Proelers Ii
Pra<ftice ia the Eccleftaftical Courts; Barton's b
rrcatife on a Suit in Equity; Tidd's Pradice of d
the Court of King's Bench in Personal Anions, 1 f<
parts complete ; Ward's Law of ?<ations ; Cruifc n
on Use!» ; modern Reports, i» vols. London edi- si
tion ' fc
s H. and P. Rjce exped to receive by the firft ar- si
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete el b
, Duruford and Fall's Repotts, the ad part of Gil- d
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of 2
new publications.
1 June »6t jj
Ihe Iliftory of Pennfvlvania, h
, BY ROBERT PROUD, a:
Is now i.i the press, iiid,will he publiflig,d, t<
with all convenient expedition, by ZfcCHA- C
- RIAH Poulson, jun. No. go, Chciaut-ftreet, ! n
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue j
-lob? received, and at the Philadelphia Library, : P
( according to the printed pro)»fals, until the i r
f work is ready for the fubferibert.
J"'y '8- lawtf al
» * ~~ m ■ —— .. a
Printed Calicoes.
f JOHN MILLER, Jun, & Co.
No. 8 Cblfnut-Streel,
I Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly aflorted, very low on "
ftort credit. X
March 6. 5 di
, Richard, and James Potter c
.HAVE removed their Counting Houfc to Ko. 11
4s, South Fifth-ftrcit. ir
/iuguft a. wS(f6t i ol
. : , ~ tc
Lancaster, Harrijburgh ■ Carlijle,
Sbippenjburg and Sunbury V
STAGES.
THE public are requested to take notice, that si,
the partnerlhip which'has fer some time sub- j n
filled between Mathias Slough of Laccafter, and
William Oeer, i» now dissolved : but, not as M.
Slough insinuates to the public without just cause ; K
as will more fully appear by a letter on the sub- „ c
je£t from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 29th
December last. a recital of which is not now deem- p|
ed neceff&ry. Auy gentlemnn wh. wishes to be w
more circumstantially informed of the merits of f a ,
• this buftnefs, by applying to W. Geer may have ,„j
the perusal .f M. Slough's ketter, and then can be s a l
at full liberty to determine whether or not W. I ni;
Geer is not perfectly jnftifiabie in attaching him- 3 w j
felf to any other person in the prosecution of the ch
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf- Cl *
urg, or any other place. ' t j,.
Now from tbt liberti and generous support the sri
public were pleai.-d to confer on the firft effort in da
this business, Vf illiam Geer, in conjuniftion with
Me.Trs. Reily, "Weed and v\ itmer, is determined
to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention and dispatch that a acaJ to oblige the pub-
lie can possibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenanee to i_
render the pafiage fafe and commodious, inform i nai
thofj wnu wish to patronize and encourage the am
undertaking, that they cin take their feats at J a c
George Weed's, the Ggn of the White Horse, | mj
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday ! f or;
«nd Friday, to proceed to Lar,rafter, Harrifburg, /,
Larlifte and Shippenfburg. The fare as hitherto ,iT.
e'ftablilhed.
For the fvrther accominedation of the public, ] " Sl
a Stage wiU start every Wednel'day from the houfb ] J.' C *
of Sarm.tl Jilder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sun- | !"
bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday, }
and return from thecce and arrive at Harriiburc j wJI
cveiy Saturday, so that deftiued for ' lncj
I.ancafteror Philadelphia, may proceed o« Mon- ' rol
days. wh
WILLIAM GEEII. ran
LaDcaflcr. Jan. 37, 1797. vva '
N. 2, '-"hi i Lir.e of Stages starts from the m ''
house of William Ferr#c, in Lancattcr, on every • P ro
Tuesday ai;d Saturday HiOrningat 6 o'clock, p ro - or 1
seeding to the weftwaru; and from the house of he a
-Mr. Samuel iildtr in fiarnfburg every Wedncf
day morning, on the fanae evening. arrives at Pa-
tiict Cociiran s in Shippeniburg,' and rtturcs but
from thence on every Tiuirfuay : periprsjjing the ; then
fame routine daily a> in its lour from Philadel- !
?>"*• ;."wf R
City of Walking ton.
j O
is
S C HEME
" g Of the Lottery, No. 11,
tig For the Improvemsnt nf the Federal City.
0 A magnificent dwcliiiig-houie Jo,ooo dollars,
& calh 36,000, ire 50,00.p
:a ' , 1 ditto 1?,000 & ca(l» z;,ooe 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 & cafti 15,000 30,000
« ditto 10,000 & calh 10,(100 10,000
t ditto 5,000 Si cilh 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & caih 5,000 10,000
1 ca!h prize of 10,000
i do. 5,000 each,are . to, oop
10 dc. 1,000 - - lo,ono
jo 'do. 500 - - i 0..000
00 d ). i«*» - - 10,000
1 iso 10. .50 - - jo,ooo
Hoo do. 15 - -/ 20,000
*>OQO ,U)., SO - 10,000
do. 10 - 15*1^000
1 5>739 Priasi.
Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight BKillars, 400,000
N. B. To favour thofc who may taitc a q'.:an
tiy of Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
tae last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but OKI :
And approved notes, feeuring payment in either
mpnsy or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be recaived foi a*y number not less than 30 tick
ets.
Thia'Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of
the private buildings to be created in the City of
afhmgton—Two beautiful deC'gps are already
ieleded for the entire front; on two of the public
squares; from these drawings it ispropol'ed to ere<S
>" two centre and r our comer buildings, as soon aspof
fibie after this lottery is fold, to convey them,
v/hen complete, to the fortunate adventuftrs, in
the manner defcribcd in the scheme for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduction of five per cent, will
0 be made to defray thy necetlary eipenfes of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
' the fund intended for the National Univerlity, to
be erecled within the city of Valhington.
The realfecurit>esgiven for the payment of the
Brizes, ye held by the President aud two Direct
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
morlthan half the amount of thelettery, \
SAMUEL HLODOET
.5. Tickets may be had at the Bank of Colem
t, bia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Fetcr
n 1 .Gib-nan, Boston ; of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
1- and of Rickard Wells, Cooper's Ferry.
mwf
r- From the Otfego Herald.
e CAUTION.
r "\TTHF.RHAS a combination of men in this
h V V county have undertaken to enrich them- I
y selves.l y fabricating titles to sundry valuable trada '
il of land, the property of gentlemen living in New \
Yoik, Philadelphia, London tnd Paris, for which j
«. trails of knd large funis of moneyhave been paid ;
J to those fraudulent men, by innocent purchasers
s It is therefore just that public information (hotild
s be given, to the end, that the injured may feekre- 1
r dress while the ivcn have property, and are to be
1 found. Those who have been discovered are Tru
e m-1! Harrifon, Joleph Witcomb, said now to re
-- fide in the county of Saratoga ; Thomas Kelly and 1
several othert who go under fiilitious names. It is
■- supposed that the lands offered fcr sale on those fa
i» bricated titlti, are at lcaft worth fifty thousand
- doliars. Such as we have a&ual knowledge of are '
'f as follows : Lots No. II and ;a, Ot/ego patent,
thousand acres each, the atftuai property of William
Uellwyn, now of London ; lots No. 58 and 64,
lame patent, thousand acres each, the property of
Mr. Chauciont, now of Paris, and fames Avtrill
and others, e*l tni* State. There is fonie grounds 1
I, to suppose that the lands of RichardgWclls and
Charles Wharton, of Philadelphia, are under their
, | management.—The Printers will do well to give
. j tbi»a place in their papers, as well to caution the
, ; public against purchafir.g those lauds, as also to de r
8 ( prive those men in future from imposing on indivi
dual, which their educatiou and address have en
abled them to do heretofore. Witcomb has been
afhopkeeper of some nore in this eountry.
The following affidavits will fct in a clear point
of view the. wickcdncfs of those men, which when
the public have perused, will induce them to ex
cuse the interference of Wm. COOPER.
Otfego, July 18th, 1797.
I I bonus Kelly, of the County of Otfego, hav- 1
a '"E been led into an error, by John Witcomb and
iruman Har/ilon, of theiame County, .to sign a
deed to them, for lot No. 58, Orfego patent, wluoh 1
- was the property of William T. Frar.klin now Mr.
diamonds and others ; and further the said Joseph '
and Truman did persuade me to do this against my
inclination, which was made out 011 the icth day
of November, 1793, or set back two ycats so as !
_ to bring it to that time; and further the name of
Pardon Starks to that deed \\as a fiAitious nanus, (
1 there being no such ptrlon there. To this I make 1
Voluntary oath. THOMAS KELLY. ,
19th July, 1797. ,
On the .9th July, 1797, came personally before <
me, Thomas Kelly, the fubfenber to the above as- I
* fidavit, and made iblemn oath that it contains noth
■ ing but th* truth.
1 tLIHUTHINNEY, Justice of the Peace.
On the 18th July, 1797, came before me Jacob
! Kibby, a perfonby me well kuown and worthy of «
good credit, who on Ilia solemn oath did fay, that
1 t* oof the parties abovementioned did make ap
■ plication to him this deponent, some time in the {
winter of 1796, to make them a deed for two thoe
■ sand acres of land in the Otego patent, and pro- c
inifed this deponent a snare of the profits, on the T
sale of said lands, for his so doing ; andth it they 1
• J madeappKrationfeveral times for the fame purpo e, c
j which services this deponent as often fefufed, de
claring to them that he had no right to lands, and g
coulddo no such thing ; which daring attempt on tl
this deponent's integrity he had related among his 11
friends several times, previous to making this afli- ii
davit. JACOB KJBBEY. a
Sworn before me, o
ELIHU PHINNEY, Jultice of the Peace.
Aug- 3- law4w.
Thirty dollars Reward.
LOPED from the l'ervica of the fobicriber,
-i on the 19th inliant, a negro man by the J
j name of DICK, about twenty-five \Va.-s of age,
, and five feet nine orttn inches higii ; by tr^de
a carpenter, and is a very lively bri/k work-
j man. His countenance is very good—When
; to, he converses with ease and confi- p
(Jence, and is pretty fagaciout. I purchaftd
the laid fellow of Mr. Dubney Minor, in whose
' name he has baen advertised in the Richmond A
; newspapers. .During his last runaivay trip (lall j
| summer) he employed a conftderable length °
, of time, by fume person near Dumfries, from
. which oircumftance, I conjecture, he has taken rt '
another nothei n route. I forewarm all peribns
from giving him employment, of any kind 1
whatever, and maftersof veflels and others, from
earrying him Out of this state. The above re-
ward will be given if he is taken within forty oJ
miles of this city; and additional sum, in -
. proportion 10 ihe distance he may be brought,
or the trouble and expeuce the apprehender may
beat, in bringing him to this phce.
AUG; DAVIS.
N. B. His appar«;lwas of the usual negro kind, jvT
hut he had more c)oath« than is cullomary for r
them to pcffel's.
A.D. J
Richmond, June 11, 179
j ,
Will be Landed,
From onboard the snip A<siv e , Capt. EtAiß.froni
/ Hamburgh,
20 haks white Rufila clean Hemp
3 cases Clover Seed
For Sale by
r S| Tbowa) Herman Leiffir,
Ov» North fifth {lr«.*et, Mo. 34.
0/.:» Tl,ne C
2 v William Blackburn,
00 LOTTERT and BROKER'S OFFIC?
°o No. 64 foiuh Sccond-flreet.
00 TPICKETS in the Canal No. 11, which
-00 -2- commenced drawin? the icth iVlay, FOR
no SALE, Fjie price of ticketswiil ri^eia propos
'oo t ' on *» the drtwing sdtfahccs, particularly 6:1 ac
-00 c ®unt 61 the five fir/t drawn tickets, prizes of
00 our thousand dollari each, 'on- the I,iit day ol
oo drawing.
oo . Cooks kept forircaminktion and regtfler
.... ' n S> *0 the Canal, No. 2, City of Vi'aihi-'i"toii, No.
2, and Paterfon Lotteries.
Also, tickets for sale in the Schuylkill bridge and
Perk omen Bridge lotteries, which will
drawing ia the course of the summer.
~ The bi'.finefs of a Broker in all kinds of Stock,
00 Bills, Notes, Lauds, <Scc- £tc. tranfa&ed with the
utmoll attention.
, n - J UI »«a tu&f
5X Erfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
" Dy ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
! No 40 South Second street,
[Price 31 Cents]
gf A Viaw of the Causes and Confequen
of ces of theprefer.t War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskine.
a May 15 §
t STATE TRIALS.
ia Sold by W. You no, Bookfeiler, No. s*, South Se
el cond-ilrecr,
ill The Pennsylvania State Trials,
1 the impeachment, trial, and acauit
al "fFrancis Hopkinfon, Judgeoftl»eCourt of
0 Admiralty, and John Nicholfon, Comptroller Gen
eral—la one large 8 vo. vol. Pries, in boards, t
* dollars.
" W. Youvc h.w for sale, a general afTortment of
Books. Also, Stationary, mail and by the pack
ege, well aflorted, ar.d entitled to the drawback if
axperted. j ß iy .
rfl SUBSCRIBER having been appointed by
the Envoy Extraordinary and Miniller Pleni
potentiary bf hisßiitannie Majesty, General Agent
loraffifting Briiifh creditors, ard fucli particular a
gents as they may au.Wize, in prolecuting
their claims before the cammiffionersforcairying in
to effeft the sixth article of the Treaty of Amity, Com
ls , mcrce and Navigation bctuiun his Britannic i ajtjly a.ii
- J the United Siata of America, hereby gives notice that
s he has opened his office at his house the south aalt
v corner of Chefnut and fifth streets, Philadelphia,
h | where he is ready to receive all claims or iultrudions
J | for claims with the voucheis aud documents thereof,
lor the purpose of bringing forward the fame 4gr«e-
J ably so the rules and oiders which the boaid may
.. i think proper to prcfcribe.
c And as it will be for the interett of all eoeocrncd,
_ that the several claims be so stated, and fuppori.
i-d, as to pievent the delay which would aiite from
t the neccflityof obtaining lurther iulormatioo, <x ad
ditional materials, fiom per lons residing at idiltance,
" the general agent things it his duty to edd, (tor the
dire£lio:i chiefly of those, who, not having employ
jed particular agents, may leave the prosecution of
c their claims to his charge and management) that all
iuch claims ought in particulart« set forth—
a ill. I'hc proper deftription aod fttnwion of the
I, creditor or claimant, and original debtor, refoeft.
f ively\
1 ad. The date andnatureof the ariginal «ontraft<w
t 1 debt.
i 3d. When, in what manner, and to what extent,
r the creditor or claimant waa prevented dr impeded,
e by the provision, operation or delect of law, the 1
s decisions and praitice of •ourts, or raftraint of ex«- 1
_ cution, from resoveriug payment of the debt in \
question*
4'.h. The lofsand damage inourrei or fuflaintd, ,
' in confequenee of luch impedinvents, whether the (
fame, may have arisen from'the infolvenev, change of i 1
fuuatiOD, or death of the debtor, the loss ol Tcgal
' remedy from lapse of time, or othercaufea impairing !
1 the value and fraurityof the debt, which would not ,
■ have so operated if fucli impediments had notexifled. '
Andjth. The particular grounds 'and reafous on |
which the claiaiaut maintains, in the terms of the 1
treaty, that 11 by the ordinary course of judicial pro- *
I ings, the creditor cinr.ot now obtain and afiually
l have and receive full and adequate compepfation" tor 1
! the losses and damages lofuflaiued. %
The general agent thinks it bis duty further to fug
s geft that the f;veral claims ought to be accompanied "
, and supported by the affidavits of, the claimants duly
sworn and regularly attefled, both as 10 theexiflence '
of the debts olaimcd, and such other circumllanccs
! as may be within their own knowledge refpeflively. e
And wherever the claimants in stating the natuie ol (;
■ their evidence (which mull in every inftanee be the c
best of which the safe is capable) have oecefiou to r
tefer te the teflimony of witucifti, ir will be proper
to apprifethe general agent of the names and plaees
of reftdence of such witneffesmd the lafitto be ella
blifhed by tluir tellimony. » S
Wm. Moore Smith.
Philadelpliia. |une Bih, 17Q7. d Jj
For Sale, p
That <wellknown place, called Vandeorivj's ''
( S R R Y, 3
ON Nefharai*y cre«fc, 18 miles from Pliih
ladelphia, on the Kew York port road,
containing 74 acres and 9 ■ pirches. Dpon the
premifcs aivs a large two story flene house occu
pied asatvern, and a good one story flone kit- -,
then, a larfe frame flablc with a good threihirg J
floor, and fomu out buildinga—alfo a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
this place is a most elegant situation fora gentle- ai
maa's feat, commanding a view of the Nelham- et
iny to its jundlion wiih the Delaware, and thence 0 i
across :o the Jersey (hore. It has the privilege ai
of oi<e half the toll received from the bridge. fv
For terms apply to the gobfci iher, hi
MOKDECAi LEWIS. ju
Vav 24- itawtf. Ci
COLUMBIA HOUSK ~ ™
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GKOOMBRIDGE with much pleas- ur
ure and- refpeft, re: ;irr,s her (Incere ac
kuowledgejucnt for the liberal encouragement rc:
(he has reciivetl during four years refidencc iw
Philadelphia ; and affuret her friends anil the
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, she Jjas made a Jupcrior arrangement sol- 1
the more c onvenient accoinmoditfen of her }'<
scholars.—Every branch of ftfeful and prliie „ (
cducatian is particularly attended to by Mrs. j- lv
Groonibridge and maftcrs excelling in their c j,
rtfpefl ive proft-fTions. ( j r
Corner of Spruce anJ Eleventh Streets. aM '
June sth, 1797. 1 mfuf c)o
The Gtuatiun is perfeftly heahfey ; and made jv
more agreeable by an oxtenfive garden and lot y;
of ground adjoining thi house. m '
~ J-j/I Pnblifhed,
And to be had of DoVfcn, Cr,mpbe!!,Rice, tn
Cary, a>id the other pricipal Ilookfdier. in f?i£ " a '
city,price one dollar, twmty-fivecents, 12 hoards, l^' 1
New Viev/s of the Origin of the jj'
Tribes and Nations of America.
By SMITH BARTON, m. d.
jkuie zc. *'(st j
Mo. i C :.
om DflrL'l of Pennfyh\:,..-. ,lj nil :
l. sy !1.11), that on 'the
r.itcenih d.iyof June, in the twenty
iirfl year .of the Independence .of the United
States of. America, Jamis WooWhoosp, of
c!j.i-iifi, h:.th deposited in thia cScEthe
tii.j oi a book, the right whereof he claims at
author, in x.ie wor.is following, to-wit :—• "
" Yofltig,Chepnift's Pocket Companion,
, " 'being a Defcriptim of a Portable Laboratory,
"containing a'Ph:!of,>phical apparatus, and a
" great number of Chemical Agents, bv which
icn " any .person may perform an endlels variety of
•' air using ar.d inflruifling Experiments, defign
-3C * " ,or J b.e ufc of ladies and gentieflarn, and
* c -_ " intended to promote the cultivation of the
°| " Science of Chemiffcry in the United States of
01 " America. I!y Jam>-s Woodhousb, ,\J. E>.
" Profeflor of Che:: iflry, in the Univeriity-of
; ' " Ptnnfylvania, President of the Chemical So
" citty of Philadelphia, &c.
nd " At P r<; ' rn f evtl "y thing that is not denomi
m " nated Cborrtiftry, is hut a small part of a sys
tem of natural knowledge.
:k, PrieflJy on Air."
te In conformity to of the Cougi ess of the
United States, intituled, " Anadl for the encour
agement of Learning, by securing the copies of
maps, charts, and books to the authors and pro
prietors of fnch copies, during the times there
in mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL.tIerkof the
Diftridl of Pennsylvania.
July jB. djt—wstf
No, 188.
D'flrict of Pennsylvania, te tuii ;
(L. s.) "R B 1 r REMEMBERED, that on the
_ -1J twenty sixth day of July, in the twen
ty second year of the independence of the United
States oi America, Joun Fxnno, of the said dif
e- triiS.hath deposited in this office the title of a book,
the right whereof he claims as proprietor, in thJ
words following, to wit :
of "in No. V. and VI. of '«The History of the Unit
" ed .States for the yep 1796," in which the charge '
■" of speculation, against Alexander Hamilton, late
" Secretary of the T r «fary, is fully refuted—
D f '• Vi ritteh by himfelf "
t _ In conformity t» • lie a>ft of the Corjrtf. of th«
if Ueited States entituled, «An a.9; for the encour
agement of learning, by securing the copies of
maps, charts and books to the authors an J propri
etors of such copies, during th« times therein men
y tioned."
j; SAMUEL CALDWELL,
1- CUri of the Dijlria if Pemft'-'-vtia.
>3 T"' y *7' I w.(w
J Public Notice is hereby given,
ti ! I HAI at Juneterm, 1797, a petition was
A presented to the Court of Common Pie. ',
it held at \«ri; Fown, in the State of Pennfylva
3. nia, it the infiance of James Short,
j 5 the Court to supply a loft deed made by a cer
'ai» Andrew Hickenluber, to Hugh Morrifon,
James Marrifon, and John Sample, executors
to Hans Morfifon, (ieceafed, for fix hundred
1, acres of Land, situate in Menallea
l. townlhip, in the county of York .-—All pef
-11 sons who have any objeflions to make to the 0! -
jea of the faidpetitioa are dofired to cttend at
the Court Hsufe, in the town of York, on the
e ith day of Stytember next, otkerwife the ioft
|f deed will Ije supplied.
II . , JOHN EDIE, Clerk.
July it. e«(S 5
e —— 1 n ,
' 30 Dollars Reward.
RAN away on Saturjty last, two indented Ser
vaats, Oif?ord Dally, a mulatto boy. about 17
, years of age, a Aim,light built active fellow, can
6 ' ead and write,five feet (even or eight inches hi»h
- has a heavy coumenaDee ; had on a fuftian coatee
1 and trowft rs, a high crowned hat, fine shoes &c.
Allan Melliin», a black man, about 24 years of
; *S e > feet seven oreight inaheshigh,at'j6ek set
t f' U ,V fy built . fel ' ow , particularly about the breech-,
t had on a Jailor's blue jackrt lined with s wan/kin,
dark striped vest, fuftian trowlirs, high crowned'
t hat, coarse Iho«s, &c.; each of them had several
luirts and fevcral other cloathes with them. Thir
-1 }y Dollars wiilbe paid for the runaways or J ? doi
lars fur each, and reafonabla charges, oh deliverinir
. them at No. 54, North Third-ftrect.
. '» he black fellow is about a year from Lewi*
Town, in the County of Suflfcx, state of Dela
ware, and has taken the boy with him.
' mtu&f,w
C A l) T I O !sf.
WHEREAS Richard Lakh has been at
tempting to fell a certain mefluageor ten
ement ana lot of ground, situated on the south
hde of Vine-fttreet, in the city of Philadelphia
containing in breadth, on Vins-ftreet. tixieen
feet, and in depth, southward, feventv five feet
bounded 011 the north fide by Vine'-ft/e'et, oil
theeaft by ground late of Samuel Rhodes'anj
Sarah his wife, 011 the/south by ground late «f
John Pembe; ton, and on thewtftby another lor
then about to be granted to Joseph Hulings—
This is therefore to Caution all persons against
purchasing the above described property, the
iitne hiving been mortgaged by tiie said Rich
ard Lake to Willisin Spade. "
SARAH SPADE.
_Tulyj4 coaw
Muftcal Injhumsnt Manufaiior ■>,
No. 167, Jrci-Sfreet.
HARPER, harpsichord, grand, portable era,d,
fid'-board, pier table and (quire j-,aro fern
maktr irorj London, returns thanks to his friends
and the public, for their libet.al epcouragemeit.
ard hopes that bytt»affißuity and atrentu n to ev
ery branch of his bnfinefs, tofnerit accrtinuarice
of their favors. Piano fortes made on th* new«ft
and ir.cll approved plans,' with pedals, pattat,
swell, and Fiench harp (top, which hcfl.tteia
hia.felf wih ue found on trial by unprejudiced
judges, to bL cqi:al if not fuperiorto ar.yinipcrN
ed, „nd twenty per cent thupir. Any bflru
miht purchased u s him, if not approvedot in
twelve months, he will exchange;
N. B. All kinds of Mu.oc.il mftrumtats mnrit
uned, and repauec with the greatfift aecuracy*
difpateh, snd cn the mott realor.able tcrr.n Ut
ready money only. '
Second h-ind Piano Fcrtc» t-.ken in exchanoc
a, n> . b '
Forty Dollars Reward. '
RAN' a-AUy (Voin i)i v ii:lt.cril>er 011 the'fet"
onddiy ef this iivft. July, a Mulatto IViai..
named Wjit iSowzer, about forty years of age
five feet seven or eight inches high, rather
chunky made ; had on when he Went away, a
drab colored cloth coat, iliiped purple tfowfers
and jacket. It is probable he will change his
cloathes, as lie topk a number with him. The
foul fel'ow formerly belonged to .Mr. Charles
Blikc of this place; ard it is expected he has
made towards Jones's Neck, in the JDelawafW
State.—Any perlln apprehending the tiid fel
low, and securing, him so that 1 c ?n get him a
gain, lhall receive the above rewafit if tak- n
«.,t of the county, and r i'w t nty Dollars if in
the county, and itH reafonabie charges if bro't
home.*
JESSE REED,.
Qieen Anu's Cc.ur.tyy Maryland.
J" ! ? 3- " WJt