©ajette »r * ®ntte» States, Philadelphia, Daily Advertiser.
kuMBEA J55 *. ]
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DR r GOODS.
f Forenoon—Edward Fox, No. s6
Monday-? ,/ out ' 1 Fronf-ftreet,
) Afternoon— Footman ic Co. No. &
V_ Sowth Fcfnt street.
( Forenoon—John Connelly. Old Cit<
fuefJny< A Ul S">n, No. 7-5 south Front-street
) Afternoon— V* illiam Shannon, No
V. 183 High-street.
tVednefdaj J A:tt "rnoon—Peter 3enfo». No. 1,
1 south Third-street.
' Thurfdaj \ F "renoon—Edward Fox.
( Afternoon— John Connelly.
Friday I Forenoon—Willuna Slnmnn.
) Afternooli—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
White Havanna Sugar.
boxes ) of very fuperisrquality now difcharg.
«r , ,ng from tUe fti P HamUurgh Packet,
at Walnut Street wharf—and for sale by
Philip Nicklin & Co.
N. B.
THE SUIP
Hamb|jrg Packet,
ILA » Swain, Mailer,
Sale, or Charter.
i eotf
TO BE SOLD VERT CHEAP !
A W \GGGN aimoft new, vritha frame—
*nd a pair ef hamcf* (Englilh collars) has never
been used—price 90 Dolls. '
A Horse 16 hands high, seven yearasM— and a
»e\v chair j with a top'and ham f- 370. 1
No. 331, Markct-fireet.
iiiw
~ THteD Y ISP' 81-ISHhD
By THOMAS DOBbON at rh btone House,
No. 41, south Second street
Letters and Conversations,
Between fevcral Young Ladies, or: improving and in
teresting fubje&s
Translated from the Dutch of Madame dt Camion,
, with alterations and improvements,
Printed onfine paper, and neatly bound,
Price one dollar.
AM IDST the tide of modern Rstrancas, painting
tales »f extraordinary distress, or of desperate or
mrtlul villainy, which " harrow up the foul,"" and
which it would be for the honor of young Udics 'o
be ignorant of, <his little book comet' forwat d to so
licit, notice, where in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds of real life, the proper, b eiuf:
elegant and natural dignity and importance ol the Female
ebarafler iscxhi' ited in an Jnt'relling j oiw of view,
at ii p»rfents examples of real and attainable excel
lence. ,
Trie puhlilber was so much pleased with the peru
fa!, that be was perluaded he Ibould do a pleating
service to the community by fending it ill o circu
la.iu" .'>11? ift —mw f 4w
ITlTsijAi Ta ru.:i.i utb, ■
And for f .le by IHOM :S at the
Stone Hnufe. No. 41, fonth Second strut,
EVENINGS at HOME ;
OR, THE JUVFNILE BODGE T Ok'ENED.
Confiiliiig of a variety of Miscellaneous Pieces for
the inftru<slion and aaiufement of Y )UN(i PER
SONS—sixVolumeshandfomely pnntedaod bound
up in two volumes, price Two Dollars.
The variety and excellence of these pieces ire
fucb, that tbe book seeds only to be known tube
universally efleemed one ol the most valuable pub
lic tions th t can be put into the hands of young
p&rfor.s
" ' *elightful talk to rearthe tender thought,
To teach the young id a how t-. Ihoot,
To pour frelh inftru&iun o'er the mind.
To breathe h' enlivening spirit, ind to fix
The generous purpose in theglowing brfafl."
Thomson.
August 24. U)wf4W
""COMMISSIONERS' SALLS,
THI Commifii'ners of the counties of Ly
coming and Northumberland, have given
notice that they intetid to proceed tQ the sale of
landt, for the arrearage of taxes, on the 7th of
September next.
gjT The different printers in this city will
render an eflential service to a great number of
individuals uy publilbing this notice.
Aug. 18.
FOR SALE,
BRETAGNES In cases
German Checks in do.
Cambrick
FbttUu
Oznabrigs,
Sold and (ilver Watches
Window Glass 10 by 8
Glass Tumblers in cases
Liufeed Oil in caiks, &c. &e. '
George Penttoek,
103, High-Strc>t.
July .f. jaw
NOTICE.
IF Theov O'Haxa, who some years fincekept
School at the Nine Bridges, Queen's County, Eas
tern Shore, Maryland, be living he is hereby re
minded to call on, or write to, the Rev. Ambrose
Marihal, near Warwick, County, Eastern
Shore, Maryland, from whom he will receive in
teresting information.
Anguft 4. mw&f4W
~THE SUBSCRIBERS~
ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GREENLEAF,
HEKEbY give notice, that they have disposed t
»f the property afligned to them for the securing (]
the payment of the note , acceptances, and en
dowments given by Edward Fox, for the use
ef the laid James Greenleaf; and the holders of
luch notes, acceptances, and endorsements, are ,
hereby notifyed tha' the fubferibero will fettle
with them for the amount of their relpeflive
elaim», both principal and interest, at
any time before the acth day of Oilnber next;
after which dav, the holder- not applying, wijl a]
be excluded, agreeably to the terms of afiign- ; t
inciit t)
Applications to be made at south-east corner t ).
of Dock and Second streets (the Dock-street j,,
fide), between the hours of eleven and one o' t h
elock every day, Sundays excepted os
Henry Pratt, in
Tho. W. Francis, w
John Milter, J un, I f LU
John AJhley,
Jacob Baker. .
?hil*de!phia, August ty, 1797. d
PHILADELPHIA: TL«&SDAY EVENING, AUGUST 29, ,707.
r lli Day Published,
And to be fold by WILI.I \V[ YOUNQ, corner of
Second and Chefnut ftrcets,
Prise yitbi of a Dollar,
Observations on certain Documents
Contained in No. V and VI of
S 6 t " The History of thfc United States for
the year 17^6,"
6$ In which th- cii int cr speculation against
jlLexjnd&r Hamilton,
ity La?e SWWfVfY of the Irlasuk, is hULL v
■«. REFUTED.
tTKITTSH Br UIUSEir.
Th-s publication presents a conciie lUtement
74 of the base means pradiied by the Jacobini of the
United States to afperfe'the charaders of thofc
p»rfons who arc cot fidered as hostile to their difor
ga izing fcheme.j. It also contains the cor
respondence between Mr. Hamilton and Meffn.
Monroe, Muhlenhurgh and Venab'e, on the fub
jedl ot the document* a.'orefaid, and a ftries of let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr Ha
milton, proving beyond the poOibiliry of a d >irbt,
rg- that the connection between him and Reynolds,
et, was the rifuit ol a daring conspiracy on the part
of the latter and his associates to money.
£3" A discount of one third from the retail price
will bt made in favor of wholefa e pucchaf rs, for
eAsii Orders to be adarcffed to Mr Yowno
/fvcufl 25
1 he Norfolk Vlail STAGE.
THIS Stage ftatys from the GEORGE Tavern,
at the corner of Sopond and Arch Streets, in
- Philadelphia, vry T%>fJa>, and S.ttur
. «%» at 3 o'clock, ia th ( f tforoing ; irfivet at o
_ j vcrthc si ftdav, at Sn«wbill the fccon I day, at
cr ; Nqnhamptm Courr House the third day, and on
j the morning of the fourth day t» e paffengcr* find
■ a falc and comfortable packet to convey thorn to
I Norfolk. • r «
pacV*r leaves Norfolk for Northampton ferry,
every Tuefdiy Ihurf'ay and "atuid.y, and the : (
Stage ftafts from tni& ferry for Philadelphia, every [ 1
Mon.ay, VVedi.elday and Friday ; puts up at Snow | 1
Hill tin firfr night, at Dover the 2d night, and~ar- 1
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third >
,<%• . i <
1.. The diftanee on this ront< , between Philadelphia c
and Norfolk, is to miles less than on any stage route >
between those places j t
Too much cannot ke said in favor of the road, j
which is most excellent indeed. The proprietors j
w llingly engage to return the whole fare to any
g parfenger, who, after having performed this route,
, r j wril fay that h> ever travelled in a stage for the fame -
d distance, so good a road in America,
o August ii. dim. eotf.
-. : 1
'lmported in the latest arrivals from h
f, Amllcritjm and Hamburg, and for sale by "
B. J, Bohlen,
/i large ajjortmcnt of Jine French Cambrict, c
_ Platillas Kufiia tnd Dutch ftilcl' th
j B r ittannia§ Writing, port, and print-
Rouanes jng paper
Hroun Holland Du ch ealf Ikin* "I
" Chei ks and Hripet Prime maddfcr J
t Tickienburgt Shell'd Barley A
Oznahurgs Looking gaffes ti
White fheetingi H'llow glals ware
TOiaper Slates
Brown rolls Coffee mills
r Umbrellas Brass kettles
Hair ribbons Scythes and straw knives
Black and white laces Tovs assorted in boxes
Best Holland Gin in pipes
London particular Madeira Wine *
\ . T "'y 24 mftthtf s
: Imported in the jhip / igou, a
And for sale by John Morton, No. 116, South
Front street, A
Hvfon
Hyson Skin (. rK .r. _
Young Hyson f rEAS -
Imperial j
April 29. eotf O
To be SOLD or RENTED^~
AL \RGE 3 Story Brick House, on the
South fide of Filbert street, between
Eighth and Ninth, lately occupied as the Sur
vej-or General's Office. '
1 he Building is 36 feet front and 3J feet de«p,
the lot ttc feet deep, with the privilege of 1 nine
feet wide Alley extending the whole length of v
the Jot, to a thirty feet wide Court for Carriages 1
to turn in. The House is not plastered, and H
may be turned either into one, or two dwelling (
Houses. It is suit ib!e for a large Manufafiory,
or would make a good Tavern. Immediate
peffeffion will be given,
Apply to No. Jil, Chefnut-Street.
Aug. »i. cod4t.
IMPORTED
In the Ihip America, Jame* Swing, mailer, from
Hamburgh,
Brown Hollands F
White Piatillas k V
T icklenbnrgs ', r
Coarse Linens ■ 1 '
t nu:
Ta P C * vet
Looking GlafTes ") . , ~£
Glass Tumblers j in d,f
J an<
FOR BALE B7
George Pennock. for
August n. ' , 3aw ini
Young Hyson lea. Z
fell
4.0 chests of a Ifuperior quality—Also,
Iqo do. of Hyson,
Imported in the Woodrop Sim], and for sale by
the fubferibers, corner of Second and Pine
street. BY
C. Haight.
June »t. eot f
Health-Office, Philadelphia, •Jlh June, I 797.
1 HE Board of Health offer to rent oiit the NfcW
± CITY HOSPITAL, usually called The IVU
iv am.
It maybe occupied as a Tavern, for which there
are excellent accommodations. The person taking C
it mud be capable and willing to ajft in the capaci- '
ty of a Steward; in cafe a contagcous disease in '^ e
the city Ihould at any time render it necessary to c ' a^
make use of the premises as a Hospital. It cannot uni '
therefore b« let for any limited time—and the red ot
•taintedframe building is to be reserved. Prof ofals
in writing will be rsceived at this office, stating
what rent will be allowed under the foregoing cir- L I
sumOances None need apply without being able
to produce the belt recommendations. De
JOHK MILLER, fun. M
Chairman of the Board ef Health. per,
J"VB. 6 i F,
By John Eenno, N =>■ 119 Cbejnut Street.
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, aad
•r of CONSUMPTIONS.
Just receded, by Wm. Grik. iths, No. xj 7,South
' s &'econd-ftreet, e Ire '1 supply of
Genuine Bal/am r.f Honey,
0f A Medicine invented by h. ~tte Sir John Hill
• (who knowledge a 1 Br. -afnrcdkim
'1 -Utiof! oi the Lintixu •». fttain) tod is
so.W/ui ,r, j.r...1ta4 *t a . VtMt„*n t Ur Hie above
LV complaints; it Is aj« of/ingular efficacy in the
Hoopirg Cough,
It may al'o l,e had retail of W. A. S-roxts.No.
ent , ' South Second and T. STifr, 55, Ncw
the cet > in bottle* at 75 ceuts each.
ofe r ?" Ir "7 BS having observed the happy ef
or. 0 the medicine, (several cases of cures hav
or- In S come within his own knowledge) and the great
Its. em and for it hat induced him to order a laret
lb- ' LI PP ?> a part of which he has juR received
et- A "S«f I- lilwJW
J a- ' ~ -
J; A Cook wanted.
irt __
/ WOM ' N who i.nrterftands the business tad
ice fin brinij e ood rcc immendaliofu, may £ d employ
or »nd receive grner ; us by applying it No. 67
north evrmh-ltr et. 7
*"*• ft « 3 t
vV nted to purchase,
\ pairot Oout, well broke Houses, young and
n, , found. Enquire it Mr. Oellers" Hotel, Cbe/nut
in flreet,
r- Application mbft be made immediately,
u- Sugxfi 1 a * u
at '
uroncc Cntpanyof bloortbAmerica'
1 ' ,oc ' c ' lo ' < ' er " ' r ' tb'* rompanf are here-
T> A "T "formed, that purfumt to the fifth
,e if. XT . T ch3rter ' *nd at the request of a
j. , Number of Stockholders, who, together, are
«r proprietors ol Six Thousand Share., and up
j ™-hu' , a ,? Cnerll 'he Stockholders
d w.(l be held at the Company'. Office, on Mon
day the ajrh day of September next, at n
'a o clock, A m. for the purpose of filling up a
» . vacancy in their Direction ; and taking into
| conlideration such Reflations or Bye Laws as
> may be preftnted in conformity with the Char
tcr of Jncorporittmv
I , EBEN. HAZARD, Su'ry.
Ie y *°" w&l'tSij
The Pannerftiip,
UNDER the firm of FREEMAN (3* Company,
is dissolved by mutual confcat. All pcrfons
1 havng any demands agunft the bid House are de
sired to render he fa:ne to T. B Freeman; and
those indebted to the House are deliredto make pay
ment to him—By whom business will in future be
, carried on,at his Store, No. 39, South Front street.
PETER BORGER,
INFORMS hit friends and the public in general
that he has removed from No. 119, corner of
Arch and Fourth, to No. loy North Front, be
tween *rch and Race streets.
July*'- ' »aw 4 w
Rofs & Simfon,
HAVE FO* SALS
1 f Hoglheads,
Excellent Coffee in < Tierces, and
C Barrels.
A small parcel of nice cocoa in bags
few puncheon" Jamaica spirits, fourth proof
Superior Teneriffee wine, eld and in Madeirapipej -
An invoice of jewellery and hosiery to be Cold by
i the package
A few hampers best English cheese.
J«'y »7 dtf. r
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper thin any other in
iheCav—
OF V/IRIOuS srzss,
From 8 bv 6 to >9 by 14,
By the Tingle Box or' Quantify, mav be had at the]
S Ofe of the Subferibert, corner oi Arch and Froni
llrecl,
James C. Iff Samuel W. Fijher. ,
Philadelphia, J nc 9» 1797. S'wmwftf
N achaniel Lewis & Son, ,t
Have for sale at their Jlore, No. 70, adjoining w
George Latimer & Son, Pine-Jlrtet Wharf,
A Quamitv of r ,
Madeira Winea F<
In pipes and haflf pipes
adeira Walnuts and Citron, lately Imported
in the schooner Sincerity, Capt. Copia
Alf,,
Puncheons, fecondand third proof, WcA-
India Rum, and a few Pipes of Brandy
They have constantly on hand and for sale,
French Burr and Country Millstonci of various
sizes,. ard a general assortment of Boultiug Cloths of
the best quality, both American ayd Foreign ma*
nufaAure. The former having proved, irom se
veral years cxp. ricpcr of a numKer of millers in
different parts of the United States at lead equal,
and in many instances superior to the European
Cloths, we hope the manufacturer, Robert Daw
son, will meet with liberal encouragement in this
important and ufeful undertaking. He has obtain
ed a patent and exclusive right of making and
vending Boulting Cloths on his improved plan for a
(lumber ef years, and they are fold only by him
felf in Lancaller, ftatc of Pennsylvania, and by 0
the fuhferibers in Philadelphia.
June '4 d
This Day is Publiftied, ¥CI
BY MelT. Dobfon, Carev, Campbell, Rice, ind the dai
other Bookfellert, the
Price One Dollar and twenty-five cents, pj (]
Elegant y printed on Wove paper, and Hot- Ph
prejfed, ln*i
By John Thoropfon, of
A COMPARATIVE VIJ»WOT of
The Constitutions
Of the several States with each other, and witji
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables, •»/
the prominent features of caeh Constitution, and \
clading together their most important proyifions, C r
under the ieveral hfcads of administration ; with " C i
Notes and Obftrvations. in
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Carolina, the
L L. D. and member of the Congress of the ers
United States.
Dedicated to tfos People of the United States.
N. B A few Copies printed on an inferior pa
per, at 3-4ths of a dollar.
February 6 tnwf fhi
ia( l Imported in the lhip Manchester, t
Benjamin Shewkll, Matter,
From Bourdtaux, and for sale by the fuofcriber,
No. jj Walnut Street.
Bonrdeaux Brandy
r „ mark?t c,arct in caf « ( Entitled to
in f cdocwin «. » do. f Drawback.
,Sauterne, do. do. J
jve Thomas Murgatfsyd.
l ' le WHO HAS FOR SALE.
sfo ® herr y Wine in pipes and quarter calfcg
w' ota do. f,
Pimento in bags
ef- 4 000 buftiels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stf.
eat
" £C A PERSON QF INGENUITY, lately arrived
-i A. from Europe, wi/hes to find here a place in
the quality of a D.reAor of a Glafs-hoafc, Chryf
tal of all kindly having particular means for the
conftruiSion of the kilns, pots. &c. and polTeffing
hketv ife the articles used in the Glals houses of
t gland and France, having worked a long wliile
ad in mofl of them. Every exertion will be made to
oy Tender th- manufaflory deserving of public appro
-17, bation— He who wiih«s to speak to him, will fiad
him at No. 475 Front-ft»e&t.
irtllpufl 24 » 4t
F->r iale or to be let 011 ground
id rent,
A-aaluntAt Lot of Gnuni; '
OiTU ATE on the north-eift corner of Was.
JJ nut and Filth streets, fronting the State-
House fqUare. This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Warmt street, and one hundred arid thirteen
f feet and an half on Fifth ftteet ; there are at
present two small two Jlory brick houses, and a
e _ number of foaU tenements thereon.
;h ;!*' Al'9, for Salt*
a , . wo three flory Brick Houses J
C «i' th conveDic,lt ft»rcs, wharf, &c. situate on
a a'Cr-'lreet, between Mulberry and SafFafras
rs "roet>, containing in front on Water street Ef
-- ty-four sept, and continuing that breadth £aft
-1 ward ninery-five feet, then widening to the
a south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses T
o ave the convenience of a public alley adjoining
is on the north fide, and are a very dedrable fitua
r- tion for a merchant, flour fadlor.or others who .
may have occasion for storage of goods. This
property will be fold on very reasonable terms
tor cash. For further information apply to the
■ printer. .
1 J»'y miewtf
'• The Subscriber has for Sale, te
A large aflbrtmerit of India Muffins, 0
d coarse and fine
India Calicoes
e Sooty Romalls
B ue Cloths and Checks
Bandanna Handkerchiefs ~
Blue red and Gilli Handkerchiefs
An invoice of Irish JLineus and Shietings, well
j aflorted
£ A box of Diapers T
Silk Umbrellas \
Two boxes #f fine Spices, cotaining Nutmegs, vei
Mace and Cloves _ frc
Black Pepper of firft quality ex]
East India Ginger tra
Java Sugar Btl
A quantity of Madeira Wine
Ditto of Gin
Roll Brimstone
Mordeeai Lewis. e>
Cedar Shingles.
0 ma
THE fubferiber has a quantity of 3 feet Cedar ! c j c
of a superior quality, for sale at 13 t h e
doljars psr thtuland. ' or
William Hallow ell,
No. 193 North Third-Jlreet. the
July 27.
eo.iat I ccr
' lici
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
lun
TT fait:
Notice is hereby Given, ilial
nT'HAT agreeably to an ait of Congress as the 1
-I United States of America, paled at Phila f™"
delphia, the 18th day of May. 1796 ; laying du' '" tC
ties on Carriage-, for the conveyance«f persons, '
which lhall be kept hy or for any person, for his C a
or her own life, ort>. let out to hire, or lor the "V C
conveyance of pafiergers, ti.e several duties and ' °
rates following,
For and upon every Coach, 15 dols.
-• upon every CI sriot, 112 dols. . ,
upon every Pod Chariot, 12 dols.
upon e-very Post Ch.ufe, n dols.
upon every »r without top, """
9 dols. f on<
upon every Coachee, 9 dols. " ni
r upon othtf Carriages, having pannel work
above, with blind*, glaffcs Oi .J"
9 dols. W ~ thl "
upon faur wheeled Carriages, having fra- '°
med polls and tops with steel springs, 6 C ! Sn
dols. > ****
■pon four wheeled Carriages, with wood- '?
enj>r iron springs or jacks, 3 dols.
upon Curricles with tops, 3 dots. .
upon Chaises with tops, 3 dols. to 7"
' upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols.
ui on other two wheel topcarriages, 3 dols. ve fr e
upon two wheel carriages, with steel or r
iron springs, 3 dols. 0
For and upon all other two wheel carriages, 1 dols.
upon every four wheeled carriage, having
framed poftsand tops, and retting up- c..
on wooden spars, i dols. . '
The Colleflors of the Revenue for the firft Sur- ■, l *
vey of the Diftriift of Pennsylvania, will attend r
daily, until the 30th day of September n-xt, for
the purpose of receiving the duties on Carriages, at W '
No, 117, in Race or Saffafras-flreet, in the City ol a "7 "
Philadelphia; at the house of Daniel St. Clair,E(q. j'j
in"ihe County of' Montgomery ; and at thehoufe " r >
of James Chapman, Esq. in the County of Bucks ; '
of which all perforispoffelTed of such Carriages are r r -
desired to take notice.
Notice is also given, s KI
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dif- eTer
tilled spirituous liquors, that licences will be grant- 6° oa
ed to them ; one licence for carrying on the bufi- sr<
ness of retailing of Wines, in a less quantity, or dire<3
in less quantities than thirty gallons—and one li- ntn 0l
cerice for carrying on the business of retailing Spi
rituous liquors in less quantities than zo gallons, at IT
the fame time and at the fame places, by the ofiic- fetftio
ers legally authorised t« e;rant such licences. fubfci
WILUAM NICHOLS, ad a
Infpeilor of the Revenue of the firft fur- under
vey of the Diftriit of l'ennfyivania.
Office of InipecSion at 7
Philadelplxia, 3d Awguft, (797. i lal Jul
[Vgh'MP XIL *
1 -» I
Bourdeaux Brandy
Ditto ditto Clarc-t in caje-
Just teceived, and lei Sale by
Rundle & Leech.
Philadelphia, 15th July, i 7
NOTICE is heretwgiven, that fej arate aro
pt> f ils wirh ft-aled covers \» ill be re rived
at my efficC until the tievenfh iliv n f Sf
next, to turn 'ft'by romrad* the follow 1, K sr .
tides for the use of the Army of the United
States in the year 1798•
* First Contrast for
8 Sergeants coats
2 Muficiani, do.
10 Sergeant! vests } Dragoons.
126 Privates coats
lib Privates veils
64 Sergeants coats ■]
54 Muficiafis, do.
96 Sergeants vests
192 Wo. len . ver.illg Artillerists
19a Lines overalls S &
936 1 rivates coals Engineers.
9 >6 <lo. vests
1871 Woolen overalls
1871 Linen do.
'44 Sergeants coats
72 Muficijris, do.
' 216 Sergeants vests
432 Lir.en o-vcrall»
4,?» Woolen da. Infantrr.
1893 Privjtes coats
1892 do. vests
3784 Woolen overalls
3 784 Lintn do.
ift CoritriiS, for 1288 Sergcamts (hirts
1' 8t 6 Privates do.
12600 Socks
id Contrail, for a-j pair Iratberbreecbtt
jd Lontiail, for a?a pair boots
*6OO pair (hoes, No. 1
8000 pair do. No. a
4th ContraS, for Artillerifts and Engi
neers hats
a 108 Infantry do.
JL v t . . 136 Dra g°°n caps
Ine whole to be delivered at the city of Phil*> '
delphia, viz.
One fourth on or before the ietb day of Fa
bruary next.
One fourth «n or before the 15th day ef A
pnl »ext. '
The remaining half on or before the icthday
of June next.
The articles arc to be agreeable to such pat
terns as (hall be directed by the Secretary for the
Department of War.
Payments to be made as (Von as the articles
hall be de'ivered, and palled infneftlon
TENCH FRANCIS, Purveyor.
eotnthScp. I v
To Majlers and Pilots bringing up Vcjtk
from. Foreign Ports to this City.
ITTHereas sundry infringement* have lately be*
V V made on the laws of this (late for the
'ent.ng pestilential or infe&ious diseases, eithet
rom ignorance or inattention thereto, it is tho't
xpedient at this time to publilh the followine e»
fch&aions the UW> ° f * ld Apri1 ' >l9A ' 7th aßfl
HEALTH-OFFICE.
~ , June 6th, 1794;
f'ojf j", 'be City and port
Y Philadelphia from the introdu3ion ef pe/Ji
lential and contagious diseases.
Sect. 7. And be' it further enabled, that every
taller or captain of any Ihipor veffc! commgfrom
■a (veflels aitually employed n the cnaftir.t trade
tceptcd) and bound to Any fort or place within
ie jurifdiAionof Pennfylvmia.fha 1 cause hisftip
r veliei to be brought toanchor,or otherwise stay
' '« be , ? T AT 0t the " VerDe| aware,op pp estsi ts to
te Health-Office on JState-Ifland afordaid and
lere to remain until he (hall have duly Dtained a
rtificate or hill ot heal h from the Resident Phy
cian. And it, previeufly to obtaining such cert*
c i ,e ° r llof hca |l h . any master or captain (ball
ifferhisftip or vefill to approach near, r than the
id Health Office to the city of Philadelphia, or
all land, cause or fuffcr to be landed, or br ught
l lhore, at any place 6t port within this Corn.
onwealth, or at any other port or place, with the
tent of being conveyed into this Commonwealth v
ly person or persons, or any goods- wares or mer
andize, or, if after receiving such bill of health
certificate, he lhall negl a or rfufe to deliver
e (am- to the Health-Officer, such master or cap
in (hall forfeit ana p-y, for each and every such
the fumof nvi hundreO dollars
And the captain or master of every (hip or vet
(ball fend a file and commodious boat tjo brine
e physician on board, and (hall in like manner
nv, y him back to the Health-Office, after he has ■
ncluded his official ejaniination ; And while he
making such examination, or in aft an) (übfe
ent> examination by the Heal h Officer or Con
ting Phylician, agreeably to the d.reflioiis of
- a&, the master or captain (hall expole or cause
be exposed to thefearch of the Refide'nt Phyfi
n,or of the Health Officer and Confujt ni> Phyfi
■ (as the cafe may be) tach and every part of the
p or veflel, and lha I present to hi view each
1 every person or perfors 6n board ther o ', and
1 (hall also true and fatislailory answers make
jU luch questions as the Resident Physician, &e.
he time of examination (hall ask relative to the'
ilthof any port or place frern which ihe (hip oc
iel failed, or has since touched at —the numi.ee
persons on board when rhe (hip or veflU entered
her voyage—the number ol persons that have
:e been landed or taken ori board, and whea
1 whererefpe&ively— what persons on board—
hey have besfl during the voyage, or (hall at
time of examination, be infeded with any pef
ntial or don<Bjioua dijeafe—and what is the pre
t state and condition of the persons on board
h rcfptdl to their health or diseases. And i£
mailer or captain (hall refufo to expose as. afore
, to the search of any of the officers aforefaid,
f he (hall tcnceal af.yfickprrfon, er in mny otirr man
dative the proper ojjiciri aforefaid in tie ixhuers,
1 captain or master, for every such offence, (hali
eit and pay the sum of riTE uuNDiiii) uot
:S.
ect. 8. And if sny person or persons whatfo
r (the Resident Physician, dec. excepted) (hall
>a board any vessel, before the master thereof
received a certificate of health in the manner
tfted, every person so offending, ftiail pay the
of ONB UVNOKED DOLLARS
r being absolutely neccfiary that the foregoing
ions (hriuld be pnnciua]ly complied with, the
criber, in compliahce with his duty, mull ex
a rigorous obfervante of the (ame, or else be
er the necessity of putting the laws in force.
Wn. ALLkN, Health Qjjicerpf the
i'nt §f flMadeipLia.
lly 14.CHARLESTON, Aug. J. fpj
Most fhameful account of French depfeda- ne
tions arc rtceived by the arrival of the fchoo- (ht
her;L»bert"y v Capt. Barner, in ie days from via
Cape Frvmcois., an
Their capture of American Vefiel eiliends pe
.even to those bou;i(' to their owh ports The j pe
ftlir, Hetty Capt. Heyfhem of this port, j ,
\va>cleared out, hound to Petit Guave ; on j Ur
lier paftkgs, fhefell in'with a Bi'itifh cruizer, al'
who ordt red her for an Engliih port, endor-» tu
tiing i}poti her regiftef, that if detected in a' re
second attempt to enter a French port, or ci
if taken coming from one, (he should be
condemned both vrffel and cargo. Having
got thtn clear of the Englifti crbizrr, Capt. hi
Heylham still direfted hip lourfe for his firft d<
destination, arVd was captui dby a French ir
privat "rr, carried into Port de Paix, and |
there vefiel and cargo were condemned. I o
The sloop Gen. Green of this port,bound d
to the Cape was takeA on her pafiage by an j b
English cruizer, sent into the Mole forced to I
fell 200 bbls. of pork of her cargo andallow- ll
, ed to depart, which file did, and in pursuing | j
her destination "Was taken by a French priva- j t
teer, carried into the Cape, and there cleared ft
by the interest of Capt Bufchman, when
through the villainy of the capt. one Lew- f
is, (lie would have been condemned, he ha- a
ving voluntarily signed a declaration that
the General Green was-hound to the Mole. I
The market at the Cape is glutted with : r
all kinds of American produce, except pork
wkich will command 18 dollars cash per c
barrel, if the administration at the Cape do {
hot fci?e it. c
The administration at Cape Francois seize 1
yet, all cargoes and jsay for none ; tljey give
receipts for the seizures, payable next crop. 1
Their pradticeß and their payments have
been and are Well known, and the merchants 1
are not to be pitied, who thus foolifhly facri
fice their property.
Accounts were received at Cape Francois , J
before the Liberty failed, of a very valuable ' J
American, Indiaman, a Prize having arrived h
at Porto Rico; is supposed to be the Alia,
belonging to Philadelphia, captured on the
9th ult. off the Capes of Delaware.
The brig Friendship, capt. Hodges, of
and bound to Salem •from Bengal, (which,
ten days ago we mentioned to hare been cap
tured by the French privateer brig Trium
phant, on the 26th of June, and part of
the crew put on board capt. Woodman, of
the brig Aurora of thisportfrom Rochfort,)
had arrived at Fort Dauphin, and vessel
ftnd cargo been condemned.
Extraft of a letter from Pendleton county,
Wa(hingt»n diftrift, July A, 1797*
" We have just finifhed a most pleasing
< day, made so by a combination of happy,
circtimftanccs* The recurrence of the an
niversary of our independence, although
our sensibility may have been awakened,
has been hitherto witnefied in silence ; but
the return of the present, the 21 ft, when
America arrived at age, made it too strik
ingly interfiling to be passed 6ver without
fixing upon it the marks ot our sincere joy
and exultation.
" General notice of the celebration hav
ing been given by the managers during the
fitting of our court, on the 27th ultimo,
and that general Anderfon had very politely
accepted a request of the volunteer compa
ny of light horse, to deliver an oration on
the occafioti, as large a concourse of the
inhabitants of the county assembled as was
ever before known.
" At day-break this auspicious morn
Was ulhered in by the firing of a field-piece.
" About ten, capt. Earle's volunteer
company of light horse paraded before 1 the
court-house. The uniform, with the en
s signs or colours, being quite new, and the
men well armed and mounted, their truly
martial appearance afforded great pleasure
to their fellow citizens. The corps after
wards retired to exercise, jn doing which
they (hewed great proficiency. After go
ing through a variety of manoeuvres, the
party divided, returned to the town, and,
having made a spirited charge in the pre
sence of all the fpedtators, dismounted.
" At twelve a signal gun was fired to
form a procession to the court-house. The
ladies were placed in the fropt, conduced
by major Farrar j general Anderfon, pre
ceded by the cornet with the colours, fol
lowed, saluted en pajfant by a field-piece,
and accompanied by Messrs. Thomas Hun
ter, Striplin, and Miller, the managers for
the day. Capt. Earle at the head of his
•company of horse, succeeded; and the
whole was filled up by the large body of
citizens
" The ladies and gentlemen having taken
their feats, general Anderfon delivered a
patriotic and well adapted oration, replete
with political information and judicious ad
vice to his fellow citizens.
" The oration being closed, the compa
ny returned, in the fame order, 4o a civ(c
arbour prepared for the purpofe,under which
a handsome dinner was served up, and of
which the ladies firft partook. The gentle
man succeeded, general Anderfon presiding.
'( During dinner, the following Poafts
were given by the President, each accompa
nied by the discharge of a cannon :
1. The United States of America—May
wisdom pre fide over her legislative councils ;
and justice her judiciary } and prudence and
resolution, her executive.
2. The Congress of the United States—
May their councils' be governed by modera
tion and firmnefs. ,
3. The President of the United States—
May the manly determination of sentiments
delivered ih his speech on opening the pre
sent Congress, tend still to secure the blef
\ sings of independence on terms compatible
with the rights, interest and honor, of the
American nation.
a. The Vice-Prefiderit —May his great
ab lities be continued in exercise for the hap
diuefj of his country
r, Major-General Pinckney-, our belov
ed fellow citizen —the determined patriot,
-and' thi enlightened ftatefroan. : A
(5. May we while deprecating any &|-
toj-ts wkich ni/, r be made to dissolve the con
nexion of the people with the government jy
(hew ouf fenfi biiity of injuries, dy? determi- I
nation to retainthegoveriiment o't oUrselves ; ,
and, above all, that irt supporting our inde
pendence, -we are an united—'not a divided p
people. tI .
,7. May the tone of the American people,
United with their government, thamfeft to g
all nations a sincere and unchanging folici- j,.
tude for peace, accompanied with a fixed n
resolution, if it cannot be obtained by ncgo- j
ciatiofi, to repel hoflility- _
8. The Congress of 1776. w
9. The memory of those magnahimous a >
heroes who fell in defence of the indepen- jj
dence of our country —May they long live Q
in Columbia's warm remembrance.
iol George Washington., theTather
of his country—May the evening of his v
days be as happy and tranquil, as his life has v
i been illustrious. j
I 11. La Fayette, thp disinterested and gal- j (
! lant affertor of our freedom—May the hap- j
! pinefs reserved for him in this land of liber- j,
| ty, be commensurate with the unparalleled
severity of his fufFerings.
12. Agriculture and Commerce—the ba. j
lis of prosperity at home, and refpe&ability
abroad.
13. The Fair daughters of Columbia—
May they be equally diftinguidied and ho- j
' nored for their virtue, as for their beauty. £
14. Captain Earle's volunteer company j
of Light-Horfe—May'they excel in disci- j
pline—-and, when glory and their country s
calls, in their patriotic zeal be exceeded by <
none of their .fellow-citizens'. ,
15. Pendleton County—May her popu
lation and civilization ever go hand in hand. (
16. THE DAY—May its due influence (
be wafted into the regions of flarery !
After drinking the toasts, the folldwing j
song, on the Fabric of our union and inde- t
1 ' ftndtnec, was sung, to the tune of, the top- |
■ fail., See. .
Fair freedom, lend thy gracious aid, i
, To ling our fabric's feme ; '
By patriots rais'd, celellial maid !
It hnafts thv sacred name : I
: On thv broad basis, may it be
T he pride and fafeguard of the free !
Herejtiffice halds her even scales,
And grasps hef rightful sword ;
F As truth dire&s, (he never fails
f T< punish or reward :
I Here equal law is virtue's guide,
And virtue's sons therein confide.
Here Hue ey'd peaceAvith gentlefway,
Extends herblefiiitgs far;
, Though by her dilates rul'd, we may
Be still prepar'd for war s
r The force which from our u»i*n grows,
| Slull aid *ur friends and cfuJh our toci-
Thus is our independence rear'd •
1 On freedom, strength and peace ;
, By virtue tov'd by faiSion fear'd,
t For fji<aio«'s felt" mult ceife. ,
I Contented now we'll happy live,
' While industry and trade fball thrivel
C Come! Cers* come! in golden pride,
T Adorn each waving field ;
Come ! with Pom«na hr thy fide,
Aaal fruitful harvests yield:
f The heav'nly pair their favors Ihow'r, •
And agriculture owns their pow'r.
'« >.
Y See Commerce witli extended-hand,
l- Flies the restraint ot kings ;
n Ard fortign riches to this land,
e Frnm tv'rj climate hrinjrt s
Blif-'d by her fniiles, we f.xin shall find,
13 That where (he's free, (he's always kind.
n May Science and her handmaid, Art,
To thi* new world belong !
Jr And infant muses joy impart
' In drains of fporrivc song !
,e Apollo fee ! wirh glory .Ircfl,
>■ Appears refulgent in the weft,
te 1
[y America is thus become, ,
, e A feat lar freedom dear,
Where virtuous strangers find a home,
'j* ' And no opprelfion fear.
" These riftng dates (hall be renown'd,
3- By plenty, art, and science crown'd.
le " After dinner a feleft ball was given by
the gentlemen, at which appeared a cou
e" fiderable number of most refpe&able ladies.
« The business of the day, throughout,
to wis condu&ed with great order and Jeco
ie rum ; and the citizens, in general returned
-d a t an ea rly part of the evening to their re
e" fpeftive homes, highly delighted with a scene
so novel and interesting; (
II MEMORY.
or The late Doftor Franklin, in thp more
,; s early part of his life, belonged to a deba
se tingfociety in Philadelphia! At one of
0 f their meetings, it was the doctor's turn to
propose two questions, which wer« as fob
en low, —Who of aH people in the world, have
a the best memories?—fecond :—Who of all
, te people in the world, have the worst raemo
(j. ries? This occasioned much learned dis
quisition amoupg the members. Ont irgu
ia. Ed that people of the best memories, are
those bleiTed with health and strength, strong
nerves, vigorous apprehensions, and in the
G f prime of life.—Others pretended that as
| e . memory, like all other human faculties, is
improveable: those have the best memories
that had during a long course of education,
, a . been obliged to learn much by heart, and
thus became adepts in the art of remem
ay bering^—Multitudes of arguments were
s . brought according to every one's fancy; but
„ j on the other qucftion it was universally a
greed that very old people mult h::ve the
_ worst memories of any, as in the declining
ra . ft age of human nature the nerves become
weak, and the organization of the brain so
far calloused as to retain but weekly the
lts impreflion of past events. There was no end
re _ to the learned theories broached on the oc
ef. cafion. At last Franklin got up, and with
3 ] e the gravest face in the world, informed the
h e ! that of all men livi\ig, Creditors
had the best memories, and Debtors the
;at worst. _ .
ip- Act laying Duties on Stamped Vellum,
Parchment and Paper:
,v " A FEV,'copiss tif the above aist may be had at
3t, the, Office (if tha.Ga2ettc of tks Unit«d Stales, No
j 119, ( hcliiut-flreet. Ju'y 19.
J*. L_-L— 1 ■ j
NEW-YORK, Augud 26. j de
National Debt and Refaurces of France and . . .
England j'■ <' jg (
Citizen St. Aubin has jud made a com
parative statement of the public debt of
France and that of England. He dates P r
the capital of the debt of to be P
400 millions, that of France "to lie 200," "
833,6661. derling. The population of j
England 10 millions ; that of France 28
millions. Share of each individual in the
debt of England, 301. derling ; in France,
71. 3s. 4d. fteiling. Each acre '6 loaded Jr
with a portion of the capital, in England,
about 6k ss.- in France, il. 13s. 4d. fter- j
ling. EfFeftive specie in England 25,0.0, .
000 L in France 66,000,c001, derling.
■Tit Fajhtim at Paris for Women-
White, violet, Date-blue Shamoy robes, °
with a triangular opening vpon the bosom,
1 with a neck a Vantique, like men's Shirts. ™
liead-Drefs —Wigs of chefnut, lighter co-
' lour, or alh colour; chignon turned up,
Spencer hats, caps tied under the chin with
J black velvet ; iron grey or slate coloured
dockings, and flat (hoes. 1 J
The Hull r'dvertifer of July 8, fays—
' Monday, July 3', died; capt. John Eaton, a
' who had been appointed by lbrd Bridport
afting captain of the Marlborough, of 74
guns. He arrived in town on the preced-
ing day, and attended ou Monday at the
admiralty about ten p'clock, and sent up
' his name to earl Spencer. The meflenger
brought down wqrd that his lordship could
not be spoken with until twelve o'elock.
' Captain Eaton waited in the lieutenant's
room till near that hour, and several persons
pafled in and out without obl'erving anyr
' thing particular in his condu&. A capt.
e Oughton was the only person in the room,
and was looking out of the window, when
5 hearing some noise, he turned round, and , j
saw capt. Eaton bad dabbed hijnfelf in the
belly with a kind of dirk, and was making
further attempts to hinifelf. He !
immediately called for affidance, but be- j
fore any could reach him, capt. Eaton had
dabbed himfelf in the fide and in the neck, ,
but the firft wound was mortal, as part of j
the entrails had burd out. During the
agonies of death, several loose expressions
escaped the Suicide. He cried out, " Jus- J
tice, lord Spencer, justice !"—I have
done my duty!"—" D nto all 1
Traitors!" and then mentioned the names
of two officers. A medical gentleman was '
called in, but the unfortunate officer died 1
in about 20 minutes, and was laid out on
the floor of ' t room, with a (heet to cover
his body. a. was to remain there till the
morning, then to be removed* to the duke
of Clarence public house adjoining, where
the coroner's inquest is to fit. Capt. Ea
ton was about 30 years of age, had the
character ps an excellent officer, and orders
had been given for his being made pod as
yederday. It is difficult to account for
this paroxifm of rage ; but he is supposed
to have been much affe&ed with the mutiny
onboard his (hip.
Price of Lilerty.
The have paid for their union
to France 850,900,0 :o of livres, besides
1,500,000 of the fined tree* in the forefts.
When John Bull was told this, he (hrugged
hi* (houlders, and declared " all the liberty
and equality in the world was not worth a
quarter of the sum !—850,000,000 ! ! !"
LONDON, June 21 —22.
Ead, the meflenger, we underdand, on
Saturday, brought advice that the property
(if the Englilh, at Venice, had been seized
by the French,, who had also attached in
the bank a very considerable sum belonging
to his majesty.
June 23-1—24.
Genoa ha* followed the fate of Venice.
The Senate has yielded, and the whole
power is conceded to Buonaparte, who
has placed it in a provisional council.
The Lion and Agamemnon still hold
by out; they refufe to give up their delegates.
11- The Neptune, it is said, is expefted in a
day ortwo to take coercive measures againd
jt, thein.
:o- Stanton, a seaman, at the time of the
ed Leopard's efeaping from the mutinous fleet,
re- drove a half pike through an officer's body,
:ne but he was lliot in the back by a marine.
The ball is at this moment in his groin, and
he will not fuffer it to be extra<fted.
A neutral veflel arrived at Dover on Sa
irc turday, with pafTengers from Calais. The
>a i c ipt. has given information, th?t on Friday
morning an Englfh smack arrived at Calai*
from the Nore, with 17 or 18 seamen, and
0 four women, who were all committed to
prison immediately on their going ashore.
The lords of the admiralty have felefted
1° the members of the court martial wholly
from the (hips fitting in the river ; nojt one
•, u " captain of the rebellious (hips being chosen
irc on it.
"K A convoy is petitioned for and expefted
here the firft of July, to take to Spithead
a . s the (hips now loading for Portugal.
. ls The embargo on veflels trading between
ie 9 this port and London is now taken off, and
3n ' we understand, that armed (hips will fre
quently be failing from hence to the Nore,
m ~ to give protection to such vessels as (hall put
eie themselves under their convoy.
Capt. W. Clayton, of the Prince Wil- 1
. a " liam armed (hip, fails this day for the Nore
with the London traders. She has feur
in£ teen 24 pounders on her main deck.
™ June 24-25.
QUARRELS— at PARIS—
;mj 'Also betwixt the Council of'soo
oc- and the Dire&ory.
ith We have received the Paris journals up
the to the 22d inft. The spirit of party runs
>RS high in France, where the people, with
the that facility of temper which has always
charadterifed them, seem on the point bf
jt! being led to retrace the steps of the revolu
tion, and to recal some principles which
j a( they so totally overthrow. Every thing is
No governed by faction ; and it is nqw the
), mock of the elegant circle of Paris to apo-
" . \ •
- ; t -V. . -- .
logize for prejudice. The Smigrsnfs of all di
defcriptioiis are crowding back into the tc
country, and aristocracy no longer shelters fz
j itfelf under the made even of moderation, h
1 Societies are formed avowedly for tlip cor- ti
reftion of republican ideas, and a venal h
press is a&ively engaged in preparing the c
public mind for a gradual retiirn to the fu- f<
perdition of their ancestors. v
The arrogance of the French dire&ory d
lately received a mortifying check'; Gilbert t>
Defmoliers, at the close of a masterly fpeee'n k
oil the finances, said, addressing hinifelf to 0
the council of 500, " The directory pre- c
fumes to criticise your opinions, It has
been proposed that my report (hould be t
' sent to the directory. Ido not wondei' at t
this motion, sinCe one bf the diredlors de- c
manded, in my presence, that I (hould be Q
obliged to lay the speech I delivered on '
their table.—(Tbe council (hewed it the 1
mod marked difapprobation.)—lt is high 1
time that the directory (hould be taught not '
to alarm the public by indecent meflages, '
but to confine itfelf to its functions, to 1
wait your orders, aud not to. meddle with 1
your discussions." This speech was listened
'to by the council with the utmost attention, <
and received with drong indications of ge
' ner l applause.
The discussions in the couucil of five bun- 1
dred, on the fubjeft ot finance, h?ve been ;
long and violent. In the course of them,
| the dire&ory have been .treated with little
ceremony. Males, one of the members of
I the council; observed, that there was the
greatest danger in leaving five men maders
J of the public fortune ; and that their re
s fponfibility -would be of little advantage
r when all the public refourcCs (hould be ex
hausted. The projedt of Defmoliers • wis
adopted ; the objetl of which was, to de
' prive the executive direftory of a difcrefi
, onary power in the application of the pub
lic funds.
~ A late meflage of the direflory to the
' council of JO'J, read in secret, contains a
I mod alarming pifture of the aftual date of
the finances. 7 It begins communicating to
the councils a memorial of the Bureau of
£• Police, refpefting the hospitals, the pri
sons, and all the institutions of humanity.
s Bitter tears of agony (lied when
• one reads the following details contained in
' this report.—Out of 1800 infants placed
U in the foundling hospital at Paris, since the
s month of lad December, 1500 have perifh
s ed in consequence of bad nourilhment, or
rather the want of nurses, who were oblig
n ed to quit the hospital as their wages were
not paid. The prisons fuffer the fame pe
e nury, and there is good reason to believe,
that for want of care, the prisoners may
escape. The public funftionaries expeiri
t the greatest delays in the payment of
their salaries, and several of them ha*e de
stroyed themselves. A long silence of con
[g fternation succeeded the reading of this
message. Gilbert Defmoliers br ke this
j silence by reproaching the directory with
the bad fydem of adminidration which it
continued to pnrfue, the pra&ice which it\
' had of swallowing up, by anticipation, the
n produft of the contributor?, on the privi
l«ge which it regularly'gave to the contrac
" tors on objefts the mod sacred, such as the
j hospitals and the prisons. A warm discus
sion took place, which ended in the meflage
being referred to the committee of finances.
—(Tableau de la France et de l'Europe.)
On Thursday there was a meeting of the
proprietors of the bank of England, when
ft appeared, that government had already
repaid to the bank a part of what was ow-
ing, and that in the course of the year the
' whole debt of 5,500,0001. would be dis
charged ; besides i,200»oool. lent on the
° malt and land taxes, 500,0001, on exche
quer kills and- other advances, making in
e the whole about 8,000,0001. derling.
Tsiax and/SENTENCK of PARKER.
The trial of this dreadful mutineer came
on yesterday on board the Neptune, lying
off Greenhithe. The charges against the
prisoner were—for causing or endeavouring
j, to cause mutinous assemblies on board his
majesty's (hip Sandwich, and othew of his
majedy'p ships at the Nore, on or about the
t 12th of May lad, —for disobeying the law
' ful order* of hi* superior officers—and for
treating his officers with difrefpeft.
The «ourt wai composed of the follow
ing officers :
President, Vice Admiral Sir Thomas
Palley, Bart.
Commodore Sir Erasmus Gower, Nep
'T tune ; captain Stanhope, do. capt. Willi
amfon, Agincourt ; capt. Markiiam, Cen
t tauf ; capt. Wells, Laneafter ; capt. Sir
° T. Williams, Endymion; capt. Rion,
Princess Auguda Yt. capt. King, Sirius;
. capt. Lane, Acafto ; capt. Pierrtpont,
Naiad ; capt. Ramage, Prince Frederick.
Capt. Mess of the Sandwich appeared as
prosecutor.
j Vice Admiral Buckner was the firft evi-
denee againd Parker. He was cross-exa
mined by the prisoner, as were mod of the
n witnefles ; and he appeared to do it with
more ability than could be expedled in his
" situation. The point of his heading the
1 C " mutiny, as might be supposed, was clearly
edabli(hed, as was also that of his being
U one'of the mod aftive in getting the (hips
•1 , to fire on the Repulse when aground, in
endeavouring to escape from the mutinous
)rC fleet. Thomas Burry, a seaman of the
Jr " Monmouth, deposed that Parker came on
board that fliip, and ordered one Vance to
assist in direfting the Monmouth againd the
Repulse. The prisoner said, " damn you
20 flip y our bower, and go along fide the Re
pulse, and fend her to hell, where (he be
up longs to r and (hew her no quarters in the
ins i lead." Parker cross-examined this witness.
ith He said, " you have been telling a great
lys deal about hell ; I wi(h to know if you
bf have been promised any thing for advanc
lu- ing this helli(h account." The witriefs re
ich plied in the negative. The evidence took
;is up two days. At the close, the president
the then informed the prisoner, that the evi
po- dedce for the prolecution clofcd, and
dc fired to know when he Tfrould.be prepared
to proceed in his defence. The prisoner '
said he must beg some time to prepare for
his defence—it wc'tild be necelfary for him
to have extradls from the evidence. He
had no friends with him, and therefore he
could not be ready to go on with his de
fenccto-morrow. The cotirt told him they
were willing to allow him every proper in
dulgence ; but at the fame time it must be
recolle&ed that there were several officer*
kept from public service, and therefore all
linuecefiary delay must be avoided. The
court then gave him till Mondav.
Parker has written a very submissive letter
to Sir Thos. Pafley, expressing his fatisfac
tion at so refpedlable a charadler being
cbofen to preiide over his trial. The wife
of Parker has,prefented a paper to the ad
miralty, slating to the.board that her Ijuf
bafid is at times in a state of insanity, and
has inclosed fn her address to them a certi
ficate of his difebarge from the Royal Wll-.
iiam, in 1794, on account of symptoms of
mental derangement; which of course will
be laid before the court.
Monday, June 27.- Tht4 day Parker
entered upon his defence. He read it hirn
felf, and brought a number of evidences.
The whole was coodu&ed'better than might
be expected from" a person of his talents,
and in his fituatibn.
The prefideirc advised him, as there were
very heavy charges brought against him, to
consider whether there wa3 not any Other
person whose evidence might weigh in hi»
favour.
The prisoner aflced whether, if any thing
occurred ifl the course of day, he could
derive any advantage from if.
The president told him, that was impossi
ble—is he let flip the present opportunity
he would not have another.
The prisoner exprefTed his confidence in*
the Court, that they would lean to the fide
of mercy, and the drift Jifftice would be
done him j he thought he had already made
it appear that it was owing to l.iS exertions
that the Sandwich had been delivered tjp to
the command of her officers, and that instead
of being a leader of the mutiny, he had
done every thing in his power to check and
keep it under.
The prisoner was ordered to withdraw,
and the court wa3 cleared for the purp<>fe of
leaving the members so deliberate upon the
sentence-
In two hours and a half the court was re
opened, and .the prisoner being called in,
the lentence of the eourt was read by the
Judge Advocate, which was.
That after deliberating upon the eviden
ces on both fides, the' Court was unanimous
ly of opinion, that the said Richard Parker
r is guilty ps all the charges brought again
him; that in consideration of those crimes,
. as unprecedented in their nature, as they
i were wicked in their tendency, and which
! were no less definitive of the interests of the
1 navy than they were injurious to the prof
t perity of the country, the court were unan
t\ imoufljf of opinion, that the said Richard
f Parked should fuffer.death, and be hanged
- until he be dead. They accordingly ad
- judged hiin to be hanged 011 board what
; ship, and at what time the Lords Corhmif
- fioners of the Admirality may be pleased to
• appoint.
Parker, the prisoner, with a degree of
fortitude and undismayed composure, which
t excited the aftMnifliment and admiration-os
i everyone, spoke as follows:
■f "I bow to your sentence with all dr«
- fubmifiion, being convinced I have adled
e froin the di&atesofgood confeience.—God,
- who knows the hearts of all men, will, I
c hope, receive me. T hope that my death
- alone will atone to the country; and that
n those brave men who have afted with me
will receive a general pardon ; I "am fatisfied
they will all return to their duty with ala
crity!" .
e President, It js in the breast of the court
5 to order you for execution immediately, but
e we think it better to give you time to repent
g your crime.
is Prisoner, I return you mythyks for the
s indulgence. x ' >
e _
Statement of Mrs. Ann Parker's unre
r mitting endeavours to obtain an interview
with her husband, on board the Sandwich,
■- previous to his execution ; with the extra
ordinary u&nner in which flie recovered the
s body from the place of interment at Sheer
nefs, and other events subsequent 'to its ar
-- rival in London, as related by herfelf.
i- After delivering her petition 'in favour of"
1- her husband to Earl Morton, who promised
I to present it to the Queen, Mrs. Parker
1, waited at St, James's till five o'clock in the
; afternoon, on Thursday the 29th of June ;
when losing all hopes of a favourableanfwer,
she proceeded into the city, and got into a
is coach setting off for Rochester/. where she
arrived about 11 o'clock that evening. She
i- immediately agreed with a boatman who was
1- going to Sheernefs with garden fluff to take
le her on board at 4 the next mrrning, which
h was that fixed for her husband's execution,
is She embarked accordingly, as soon as the
le tide would serve, and got down along-side
y th? Sandwich about seven. Tie sentinels
g ordered the boat off, she desired permission
is to speak with Richard Parker—the anfwv
in was, that if the boat did not put off, they
is mull fire into it. In spite of her remoa<-
le ftrances, the boatman now proceeded to
m Sheernefs, alluring that as the Yellow
:o flag was not up, 110' execution wotild take
le place that day. She instantly a
iu nother boat from the dock flairs, and, as she
e- was rowed up to Blackftakes, she observed
e- the fatal flag hoifled 011 board the
le —her application was renewed" with tenfold
s. entreeties to get oa board, but to no effeft,
it .and again she was taken back to Sheernefs,
iu the waterman having stipulated only to put
c- her on board the Sandwich, and being obli
e- ged to go back for persons he was engaged
>k tercarry. She hired a third vessel with no
it more fucccfs ; for jufl; as she approached the
i- ship, ike saw the fatal procession of h<r
id hulband from the quarter djci. ts the faix«caflle, wlicu (Lritking oiit " Oil my dear i
husband !" Phc fainted away. On recover- !
ing The saw him moiint the platform on the 1
cat-head, and tb<; clergyman in his robes go
frofti him, and from tliafc. moment (lie fays i
she- " fajV nothing but the Tea, which ap- '
peart,-d covered with blood !" - Thus sense- , i
less (he was rowed a third time on (liore.— i
She Embarked in the fourth boat, and saw j
- him from a distance 3t the yard arm, just be- j 1
fore he was lowered down ; by the time
(be reached the ship, the body had been re- (
ccived into a fh-11, and carried away for in
terment. ;
She requeued of admiral Lutwidge to i
have the body, but being refufcd, (he went
. the fame evening to the burying ground,
and feeing three women near the ground,
(he imparted to them who (he was, with her
dtfign of recovering the body of her hus
band, and requested their affiftaiice, to
which they readily a (Tented. She direftly
ascended the gate-way, and helped the wo
men, till all got over;' when with their
hands alone they removed the earth that
covered the coffin, which was laid but a lit
tle way in the ground : having raised it,
they contrived to get it over the gate, and
then fat upon the c ffin, to conceal it from
the cefitinels of the Barrier gate, hard by,
till four o'clock in the morning: the draw
bridge being now wound up, a fi(h cart
came out of the garrison on its way to Ro
chester, when (he prevailed upon the driver
to convey the body to that place for a gui
nea, which he undertook Arriving at
Roche'fter, (he agreed with the driver of a
caravan to take it to town for fix guineas
more, and deliver it at the Hoop and
Horse-(hoe, Queen-street, Little Tower-
Hill, where, itTeems, (he had hired a room
for the purpose, and brought the key in
her pocket. The body had not been here
long, before a mob was collected to fee it,
and Mrs. Parker was summoned before a
magistrate to give an account why (he re
moved him. She replied v to have him bu
ried like a Christian. The magistrate then
a (Iced whether it was true that (he had fuf
fercd him to be (hewn for money ? Sh« burst
into a flood of tears, and replied, " Do I
appear l\he a monjler so unnatural!" It wai
proved afterwards that there was not the
smallest foundation for so unnatur 1 a report.
The body was at length deposited jn the
4 vault of St. Mary, Whitechapel, the bu- j
rial service being performed by the Rev. Mr. j
Wright, the redtor.
Trial of the Mutineers of the Pompec.
Yesterday morning at nine o'clock, a
court'martial was assembled on board bis
Majesty's ship Royal William, at Spithoad,
.CQnfifting of The hon. Capt. Pakenham,
Prefidcnt.
Captains Oplfn,Montague,Faulkner, Pick
more, Peyton, Yorke, Leoge, Barker, Mid
'dletonWilkinfon Frafer and Herbert— for
the trial of Guthrie,Calloway Afhley,John
fon ar.d Davies, for making, and endeavour
ing to make, mutinous a(Tetnblies,allon board
his Majesty's (hip La Pompee ; and James
Braham, for being present at such affem
blics, all of them belonging to the above
ship. Ten witnefles were examined yesterday
on the part of the prosecution,. wyich all
tended to criminate Calloway, Afhley, Gu
thrie and Johnson. Hitherto nothing has
appeared against: Braham, and nothing fur
ther against Davies, than that the other four
held their meetings in his birth, and that
it was the place they swore all such people
in as they could, through ignorance or other
wise, prevail on to take au oath to aflift their
views in petitioning for peace, which could
not be brought about, they said, without
the difmiflal of his Majesty's Ministers, and
which, they added, they were determined
to effedfc. Calloway, who seems to be the
mod hardened fellow among them, observed
to one ofthe.people to whom he tendered the
oath of being true to each other, to obtain
by all means peace and liberty, that he wan
an old man,and that his life could not be of
much confequence —however, he would free
ly facrificeit, fee his heart's blood flow and
drink it afterwards sooner than relinquifhthe
pbjeft of forcing the Ministers out of place,
and have, an immediate peace. All the evi
dences in this day's proceedings were re
fpeftable looking men, and gave their testi
mony iii so clear a manner, lhat there is lit
tle doubt of what mud be the fate of the
(mutineers. Guthrie is a fine looking man,
is the Captain's Cockswain, and also Quar
ter-Master of the (hip. When off U(hant, he
pointed to it and said " There live our
friends, not our enemies." A fluey is
young, and by trade a patten maker—was
a levy quota man; aud seems to be fond of
talking. Calloway is about 50, an ill look
ing fellow; is also a quota man ;|and so is
Johnson. Davies and Braham seem to feel
more for their situation than any of the reft.
The court has adjourned till nine o'clock to
morrow.
Friday, June 23. This morning the
'court, according to adjoinmeSt met again
on board the Royal Wilb'am, when Afhley
was put on his defence, who aacufed Gu
thrie of being the most prominent feature
and aftiv'e person in this business. He en
deavoured to invalidate one or two eviden
ces against him, by proving that they had
frequent quarrels. ..-He madman appeal to the
feelings <jf the court, but did uot attempt to
disprove the fads e(labli(hed against him.
Johnson proved, that he always was a
man of a serious turn of mind, and prefered
so lit Vide to-tlic foticty of hum ; that he often
exprefled a wi(h to lead the life of a hermit,
and intended £0 offer himfelf to Lord Mount
Edgecuijibe, who he understood had a cell
for a leclufc, under particular and rigid re
ftriftions.
Davis produced so many and such respec
table witnefles in favour of him generally,
that every impreflion of l>is being a princi
pal, was done away.
Braham was fully convi&ed of having used
-turbulent language, but in other refpe&s he
proved his character and conduft to be gene
rally good.
The court then pafled sentence of dc-ath
Sgainft Guthrie,Calloway, Afhley and Johr.-
lon ; Braham is to be confined 12 months, j
and Davis was acquitted. Guthrie and :
Calloway were recommended to mercy.
Saturday—Orders have been- sent down
from the Board of Admiralty, ordering the
execution of Afhleyand Johnson, aud repriev
ing Guthrie and Colloway.
] June 28 —25.
The funds rnfe on Saturday more thin 3 prr
; rent. 0* the fpecific tiding brought by tWe
French Sag ,of truce. Consols, for the July o.
pening, wert op 55 12 ;. ind thedifcount on the
loyalty loan was reduced to to per cent
A commercial intercourse is, in some degree,
already opened between England ind the French
republic, and confi'derable quantities of goods
have been recently Slipped for France, without :<
interruptisn from the government# of either '
country.
A letter received from Venice, dated May
3 1, fays, " the dreadful (late grifuns from which
so many vvrelched viilims of tyranny have Ween
precipitated, with fiories fattened round their
necks, In silence and fecreey, into the sea, are
demolilhed ; and the a<sls of (late prottfs, which
had been commenced against several persons
before the arrival of the French, annulled. Free
liberty of speech, which has been denied so ma
ny hundred years, is now fully enjoyed here."
Letters from Genojt, dated the 6th of June,
fay, that the revolution has broke out at Port
Maurice, at Percins, at Finale, at Pietra, and j .
other places. The two parties have come to j ;
blows, and blood has been (lied ; but vi&ory
remained with those who wilhed to plant the
French tree of liberty in the territory of Genoa.
Tf e harbour of Genoa is forthwith to be (hut
agaiuft England.
A revoluti n has now broke the whole wes
tern coast of the Genoese territory TRiviere di
PoneteJ. Trees of liberty have been planted
in many places. The g-and question, whether <
a democratic government shall be eftablUhe !,
and all titles qf nobility aHoli(hed,as in Venice ?
has been determined in the affirmative.. A pro
digious multitude of pe9ple alTembled before the
-hotel of the French Minister shouting, " Long
live the democracy—live liberty." Faypoult
came to the window and answered by exclaim
ing, •' Long live the Genoese people t-long live
the French people." The whole city appears
fatisfied wi h the change, end anxioully expe&s
the arrival qf General Buonaparte.
Piflurbanees likewise prevail in the little re
public of Lucca, where attempts are making to •
introduce the Oerpocratical form of government.
! The greater part of Italy has now alfumed an
entirely new political form.
At Padua the French were preparing to carry
away the tongue and chin of St. Anthony, the
patron Saint of that cjty, with other valu.ble
relics, but the inhabitants redeemed them by
: raifmg 35,000 ftvres in a few hours
All article from Milan, May jij, fays, a num
ber of Prelates in the P»pi(h provinces, have'
now renounced their vows of chastity.
All the Italian provinces which wi(h for a
democrat: form of government, are now con
folidatedinto one, and form the new Italian re
public, which it) Italy is caltfc theCifap'ir.e
the republic on this tide the Alpsj.andin France
the Transalpine, for that beyond the Alpj]
General Buonaparte has divided this republic in
to eight departments, confiftng of the diftndt
of Milan, Bologna, Ferrara, Reggio, Modena,
Mafla Carara, and a great part of the Venetian
territory. Milan will he the capital. |
The navigation of the Lake Lugano, which
the Swifs'hjve already contested both with the
; French and the Lombarduns, appears likely t»
bring on a rupture between the Cantons and the
French Republic. Th? former, terrified by the
fate of Venice and Genoa, have already sent
' fevsral deputations to General Buonaparte, and I
[ have endeavohred to fettle matters on friendly
terms ; but at the fame time they put them
-5 fejv® in the most refpedlable state of defence.
July i—3.
r In the evening we received by exprofs, the
|. Journals of the 28th and 19th. They are en
tirely ftlent frfyiedhng any commotion having
taken place, and the only articles that bear at all
" a complexion of that nature, are the Editorial
r comments of fome.Joura'* on the state of pir- !
1 ties, and pretended er real difc«veries ef certain
t plots prtvented in time from b' ing executed by
j the vigilance of the DireAnj-y. On the night of
j the 27th, all the artillery of Paris were ordered
upon duty, with orders to be ready to «<fl at a
" minute's warning. Guards were planted at
1 every avenue, and numerous pa'roles paraded
: thedilTeren' streets the whple night
1 This we believe to have been the origin of the
„ report that came over with the papers of the
f 17th. Of the cause of these movements we
have no fatisfaflory account in any of the'jouf-
T j nals. It would app ar, however* that some a
, larm had been given'to government, against
e which they thought proper to take meafunes
, The cfubs are again become objefls of terror,
. and a has taken place on them in the
council. If we may believe the Eclair, the club
of Salm, which has taken the name of the Circle
C#nftitntionel, has nominated a directorial
comniiffion. confiding of Valeyrand Peiigord,
e Sieyes, Ga at, Veyrieu, Honore, Riony, ary( the
1 Minister Merlin. We can only fay that if the
- club is composed of fu<!h men, it' is a formidable
c barrier indeed against that of Clichy.
r The Diridloryfetms to be courting the fa
vour of the antient Fcuillant, or ConjiitutionM
s party, which is more conlideiable sot its talents
® than its numbers, ;
f The Council ot Elders h*ve rejected the hasty
- drcree of Gilbert Del'moliers for taking the ini
s tiatinn of all expences out of the ha»ds ®f the
J Direflory, snd putting them under a Commis
sion of Treasury. This is the most important
article of intelligence brought by the last papers,
5 ftnee the rejsdlion ef this dicree re-eftabliihei
the Directory in power, and (hews that for some
c time at leatl they are likely to prevail in all the
i great questions upon which they are at i(Tue
j with their opponmts.
There are not less than between three and
four hundred mutineers yet to be tried ; the
e Warrior is full of this description of havil pri
soners.
In the House of Commons yeftt rday, a pretty
1 long discussion t ok place on the C.inal tax. —
e Mr. Keene, Sir W. Puheney, Mr. Ilufiey, Mr
Wigley, Sir J. Sinclair, and Mr. Dent, obje.ited
-to the principle of the tax, and to its oppressive
tendency. The latter said he was chairman to
3 the Delegates (a laugh)'—the Canal Delegates,
he meant. Mr, HuflVy prop»fed a tax on plea
n sure grounds in lieu of it, and Sir John Sinclair
, an annual one of a guinc-a 011 gold watches. It
t was also stated,' in oppcfition to the tax, that
[] many Canals now paid less than 5 per cent, that
(hares now fold at 40 per cent, discount, that
many were flopped for w ant of work, and that
the tax would hinder naw «ties from being
" formed. Mr. Pitt said Canals would be exempt
which paid only 5 per crtit. and the tax would
be so diffufed through so many channels, that it
wou.d scarcely be feltj He wilbed it, however,
'go into a. Committee. Fpi_lhe tax 45,
. t '4'
' Parliament will not be prorogued till the latter
end of the present month.
Duport has prtfenied to the Council of Elders
h n Paris, in the name of Dr. Sc-hoult, a Chinese
- I mahufenpt written on the barfc of the PaJm-irce.
1 Y- : J
Tins work, fonfainin* the political r'gbt of the
ChineTf,'wss eumpofe'l only .of /a
proof said Dupont, that thty arc mtffc
concise in China than in France.
HHlfiiiin ■iiiiii | iH (nrinrfnnTir-Tii-rT'~'rnini
PHILADELPHIA, \
TUESDAY EVENING, August 29^
YefterS&y the assembly of thiV state nfet
agreeably to adjournment, when haviig
made aquorumthey informedthegovernor bf
the fame, who returned for answer, that fte
would meet them at eleven o'clock, this day,
in the Senate chamber, to lay before them
•his communications.
This .day, his excellency, the governor,
met both houses of the legislature of this
state, iu the Senate chamber, and delivered
an address of confiderablt- length : He in
formed the two houses that he fliould givo '
dire&ions to have laid before them, daily/e
---ports, both from the health-office and/the
college of physicians ; and, without direftly
recommending an adjournment, submitted
the question to their confideratjon.
The House, having returned to their
chamber, took into consideration the fub
jeft-matter of the Governor's
after debate, adjourned, at half pad
for one hour.
HEALTH-OFFICE. y
The 'committee appointed on the 2§tjijxftitfit,
to visit the hospitals at State Iflaml, and the
Wigwam, (0 examine the Jlate thereof, and to
report such regulations as'may bejl promote the
comfort of the Jd, and the objeS of the injli
tuiwn,
Report—
That yejlerday morning they proceeded to
the hospital at State IJland, where they found
thirteen /id, some of -whom were, cwvalrfcebts,
and all ( he reft appeared to be on the -recovery.
The whole of the in/litution appeared to he
in good order, the rooms clean, itnd the patients '
well attended and provided: Refpeßing the 1
rules, those already eftablijhed appear fufficient
for the prefentftate of that place ; hut they ne- i
verthtLfs recommend a Committee Icing ap- !
pointed for the purpose of regulating the qua- :
rantine of yejftls coming from Jea, and for the
government of the pajfengers and crews, when
onshore, under such detention.
In the afternoon they lifted the hospital at
the IVigwam, where they found things in good
order, the house,, beds, an t attendants, el/ran, i
and ample provisions for the comfortable accom
modation of the patients : The phyfeiah in»
formed them, that since ike commencement of
that institution, there has been received forty
eight patients,
Sixteen of whom have died ;
Two have alfconded ;
One discharged ;
Fourteen are convalescent, andfifteen remain
ficl, four of whom appeared to be in a low
state, and the reft on the recovery.
The males are fepa ated from the females ;
and the deceased, convalescent, and the recover
ed, arc accommodated in feparatc houses.
They recommend the appointment of a com
mittee for the purpose of J taling rules for ad
mitting the lid, and for the government of
said hospital.
LEE SON S'tMMONS,
STEPHEN GIRARD,
CALEB LOWNES,
JOHN CQNNELLT.
Philadelphia, 28th Aug. 1797.
A Health-Committee has heed chosen. for
. Southwarl, consisting of twenty memlers.
Mejf. Girard, Lownes and Connelly, whose
valuable and important services as members of
the health committeein the year at Bujh
Hill Hospital, had left a la/ling imprtffkn on
the minds of the citizens, have again laudably
come forward to aid the preftnfcommittee.
| Every where, in the vicinity tf the city, the
j mrft alarming andmoft abfurdexaggerations rt
fpcßiftg the difarder, abound, and gctin credit,
to an astonishing degree ; tht spirit of exagge
ration exceeds that of ■ 1795» and seems to-pre
vail more and more at the cause of alarrh de
i creases. Those not wholly abandoned to credu
lity, may profit by a caution, not to believe tv?fj
thing they hear. *
Lift of all the burial* in the several grave
yards of the city and liberties of Phila
delphia, as taken from the books kept
by clergymen, sextons, kc.
Since our publication of Saturday.
[Collected for the Philadelphia Gazette.]
4
c I*
1 I
Names of burial ground. -O U
Ghrift Church - o ©
St. Peter's ... } o
St. Paul's - - - IO
First Presbyterian - I ®
SecondrPrefbyterian £ o
Third Presbyterian . , - 0 0
Scotch Presbyterian - - 00
Aflbciatc Church - c(o
St. Mary's Chapel - 20
Trinity Church - 11
Friends - - " - 02
Free Quakers - • 02
Swedes - - 10
German Lutheran » - 21
German Calvinifts - 02
Moravians ... 00
Baptists - i- 00
Method ifts - • it
Univerfalifts - I e
Jews - ~ '• 00
Potter's Field » 1 3
pity Hospital (no report)
Kensington - 3 2
Total for the last 48 hours, 16 14 1
Died on Friday last, after j Jhort illness,
vnivetfally regretted ly an ecetetfeve acquaint
ance, Mr. Joseph Bowers, Jlyp-wright—ln
the death of this citizen, his family and the
public have fuftaincda heavy Icjs, for he -it/as
a gfiod husband and father —an boneft
and one *f the Jirft Jkip-builders of this city.
'Same day, Mr. Caleb AJh, e refpeilable in
. habit ant of tht diJiviS of Souitsu/arh.
To the Prtntsk.
The college of physicians have declared
our prevailing fever to be of a 'contagious
nature. What must we think then of those
physicians, who, when they are called to
visit sick people, tell their families and
neighbours' that, they have not gotten the
bad fever, but they have gotten only com
mon colds or fevers. By such aift-s of de
ception and cruelty, the disease was propa-'
gated in the year 1793*-- The treatment
of these colds and common fevers, as they -
are called, shews that the physicians do not
Relieve themselves, for it is exa&ly the fame
as fQr the yellow fever, vis;, by plentiful
bleeding 1 ani purging. I wish the' Board
of Health would forbifl t|ie above decep
tions in future, and thereby save many lives.
A CITIZEN.
To Dr. WILLIAM CURRIE.
T expedl to leave this City with my fami
ly in a day, or two, if you (hould think pro
per to reply to my letter in answer to yoilrt.
both'publilhed in Mr. Fenno's paper, I {hall
on my return, which I hope .will be in a few
weeks, answer whatever you may oppose to
the fafts I have stated refpe&ing the origin
of the awful disease which prevails in this
city, At the time I wrote my letter to
you, my mind was mpch engaged on the
fubjeft of my removal from town; I there
fore overlooked what you relate from the
information of the captain, "that the crew
" of the Aretjhufa left the (hip immediately
" after her arrival in port, havingprevioufly
" carried with them their chests, wearing
" apparel and bedding, and that he, the
" captain, had previously depofitea what he
" called his light faile which are often used
" for bedding by mariners, in Mr. Bridges
" Sail Loft, these fails alone without any
" other infected article you fay, were fuf
" ficientto give origin to the awful disease."
From this recital .the following questions
naturally occur ; doth it appear that one
person tooktbe disease from-thefe fails in Mr.
Bridges Sail Loft ; or that any of the late
crew_ of the Arethufa or other ptrfon were
taken with tlie disorder at their refpeftive
lodgings ? no doubt the bedding and wear
ing apparel of these seamen were as much
iu fe&ed as the fails of the (hip, and it is
probable if any such cases had taken place,
you would have heard of them—after the
scrutiny which it appears you have made in
tracing Jie supposed infeftion from this (hip.
I have this day heard of three men who have
died in the yellow fever, the origin of which
it is said, can "be traced to the Snow Navi
gation, with as much certainty as the na
ture of the cafe can require. The particu
lars may hereafter come before the public.
BENJAMIN WYNKOOP.
Mr.' BEJJpTMTN-WViTKOOPF 1
f~ SIR,
I THOUGH I have neither leisure nor
•retirement at command, yet, as you have
tailed upon me, in Mr. Fenno's paper of
the 26th instant, to afiign a more probable
source of the prevailing fever than the one
you have afligned, or confefs my error : I
will endeavour to oblige you as far as it can
be done Jwithin the limiti of a column in a
newspaper.
The source you have afligned, is opposed
by insuperable fafts ; by past experience ;
and, by the nature of the dPfeafe. You
have asserted that the offenfive smell was firft
observed in the neighborhood of Messrs.
Latimer's. <ind Sims's Wharfs, after the
Swedish snow Navigation had discharged
part of her cargo, which must the
date of her arrival) have been on the "28th
of July. The Swedish captain acknow
ledges that a stench was observed at the
time voa mehtion, but positively denies that
any stench proceeded from his vefTel, the
crew of which were not only healthy at that 1
time, but have continued so ever since, one
man only excepted, who was sent to the
fort with the scurvy. He alfa alledges that
several hands from on (hore were employed'
in discharging the carge, none of whom
1 were affefted by it. The.captain also states
that the stench complained of, arose from
the bodies of five or fix dead dogs which lay
putrefying in the vicinity of the dock. Mr.
, Latimer also "ays the stench was not like
I that of bilge water—and notwithstanding
the information you received from Mr. Afh
mead, he has since allured Dr. Caldwell, that
he believes the stench alluded to, arose from
the bodies of dead dogi and, cats which lay
in the dock, because he observed it always
to be most offenfive during low water.* But,
fir, if your statement was granted, it would
| avail you little, because, by comparing the
' cases of the persons firft infedftd, with the
time that you suppose the bilge water ex
haled its' pestilential venom, you will find
| that they could not have originated from
that source," even if bilge water was capable
of generating 4 disease of a malignant and
j contagious nature, which I believe was never
! before fufpefted by either physician, phi
| lofopher, or historian, and of which I am
; sure there is no inflance on record, or even
handed down by popular tradition.
Mr. Latimer's man was sick at the time
the vefTel began to unload—Mr. Latimer
j himfelf, and twq of the crew of the brig
| Iris from Oporto, which lay more than 200
! feet below the snow, tfere attacked with the
fever, which in one of the crew proved un
equivocally to be the (fellow fever of tropical
origin. Three more of the fame crew were
attacked within three days—Mr. Lewis, on
the 1 ft of August—Mrs. Smith, Penn-ftreet,
a ijonfiderable distance below each of the
velfels, died on the second of August-—her
son took the disease from her and died—
Mrs. Fergufon, near Mr. RufTel's wharf,
died on the sth or 6th—her son, a student
in medicine, on his return from. Burlington,
during his mother's illness, caught the dis
ease from her, and soon after, his father,
- brother and two servant girls—Mr. RufTel's
servant girl and a young lady took
• ease—-and a young woman at Mr. Plankin
horn's, who had the black vomiting, a
* Tbtrt vim lately a gretft mortality among the cat* in
oiticr fmrts'qJ tip siix, but nit xcHw jcycr follrwsd.
symptom which diftingul/hes the yellow
fever pr the Weil-Indies, previous to
termination, from all other diseases.
I cafqs I believe received the con
tagion from certain articles brought on shore
fronn the Ajethuf* ; my reasons ,for -this
opinion have been feted in my addrefa to
we citizens and in my former latter ret you,
—but I do not believe it was conveyed to
them, as you suppose, by the east or.any
other wind, but by contaft ; because fun
dsritand enough of the laws of febrile conta«
giipn to know that it is never conveyed thro*
the medium of the air 20 feet, perhaps not
iq, when detached from the substance to
which it adheres, and alio that no variety of
fever which originates from the exhalations
of putrid vegetables has ever been conta
gious.
WILLIAM CURRIE.
P. o. When I have more leisure I will
answer pther paflagea in your letter vritbLall
due reipeift. - . •• ""
Deaftis, per regular returns, for I 796, '
(See Poulfon's Almanac,) - 2200
Allow for Liberties and vicinity, .
and omillions, - - 70a
2900
Say for 6 '.reeks, during the most
sickly season, al oo per week, are 600
The remaining 46 weeks will average
50, are . . . 2360
2900
NFAV-r ~K Auf. a 6.
T.xjraß of a letter datedNttvtiQrt. Augvjl 1 £th-
They are very much alir ,ied j? ProvH nee on
account of the tf.llow k v>-r. brought in by a
vt'Lel lrom the Care ; fivm pcrfons have died
with rt, two of thesn Cu torn hOuse Offi ets. A
number irore Tick i it r3gcs at the i'outh end of the
tow 11,
Port of Philadelphia.
ARRIVED. DAYS*
Ship Favorite, Thompson, Hamburgh 42
Brig Abigail, Lake, Marseilles
I Sloop Providence, Pease, Nantucket 9
At the Fort. '
Ship Swift Packet, Gribben, Savannah
Brig Eliza, Tucker, do.
Pilgrim, Semple, do.
Come up from the Fort.
Brig Eliza, Stubbs, L'Anceveau.
CLEARED.
Ship Thomas, Holland, Amsterdam,
1 - roil—
United States, 1 J
Pennsylvania Diftrift. j •»'
IN pu r ftfance of a writ to me dire&ed from the
honor '.Me Richard Peters, Esq. Judge of the
l)i(lii& Court of the UnitedTStates in antl for tha
Pennsylvania DiSriS, will be exposed to Public
.Sale, at the Merchants'Coffee-houfe, in the City of
Philadelphia, on Monday, the eleventh day of-
Sejjteirber next, "t 11 o'clock at noon,
The Brigantine, called the
MARIA,
XI-—tiarel and furniture as they now are ;
th -laid Brigantine having been condemned to paj
Mariners wires, kc.
Wm. NIBHOLS, MarJboL
Marfl)al'« Office, 7 ,
io, 1797 )
N B. The Inventory may be seen at my Offite.
Mrs. G RATTAN *
INFO Mxher friends,and the public in general,
that her house, No. 192, Market-street, will con
tinue open during the fieknefs.
Board and Lodging In a separate room, ten
dollars, in a double room, eight dollars.
For the cortv nie'ice of th gentlemen who
have not thair amilies in town, Mrs
will rciceiyepentlemert to dine j:t half
a day iV Angry/I 19 —' t
Thomas Herman LhUffer.
North Fifth street? coiner of North al cy, No. 34,
HAS FOR SALE,
EXCELLENT red Bourdeanx Win« in cases an 4;
boxe ß , fix vears old
Whi c Graves Wine in casks
: icklenburgs
Ruflia Sail Cloths
Ravens Duck
Bag Linen
Hessians
Diaper and Table Cloth
Empty 1 ag«
German Cloth
\p aflbrtrtentof black coloured Ribbon#
F ne German Laces
About twelve tons Ruflia clean Hemp
Clover Seed
Italian Soap, in small boxes, for family uf<r
Window Glass Aug 29 —law
The Inhabitants of the Diftridt
of Southwark,
£ RE informed that a Coachee is provided, to be
kept at the Constables' office, the north east
corner of Front and Almond streets, where the
friends of those Tick persons who desire to be rs*
moved to the City Hospital, arc requested to make
application—Also, a Hearse will be kept in readi
nel'a for the removal of the dead.
JONATHAN PENROSE.
N. 8.-—The Poor, who wifti to remove to the
Tents on Sehuylkill, may be fufniihed with orders
by applying as above. Aug. ap
TO BE SOLD,
And pojjejfion given immtdiately,
AL/VRG£ cwo fto'i y hrick House, handsomely
fitusted in Princeton There are four roomi
and a large entry on each floor, and five rooms in
the garret, a range »f back buildings 51 feet ta
length, ard a piazza of 57 feet. There is a pump
m the yard, an exeelleut kitchen garden, at tha
farther end of which are a carriage house and two
(tables, one of which is new, 44. feet long, with
flails in the two (tables for 27 horses. The heal*
thinefs and. pleasantness oi its situation, and the
number of genteel and agreeable families in and
n«ar the town, render it a deferable retreeat for 3
gentleman from tli»city, Ihf commodioufncfs of
tlie house, it? central poution, and the largeness ijf
the stables, make it every suitable for a tavern, for
whifh it has confidered as a capital
fta.id. Inquire on the premises, of
ISAAC SNOWDEN, jun.
Princeton, Ang; 15 19 —Uw2awtf
TO BE SOLD,
And immediate pojfejjton given,
A Convenient well fiaufied Brick i.enemert,
with a cook house and other out houfet.fitu
atcd in a plealant part of the borough of Wilming
ton, in the State of Delaware—The lot of ground
has forty feet front on Wel-flreet, and extends
through the square to Palture-ftreet, on which is
erected a flable and carri? .-e honfe.
ALLEN M'LANE.
VVilmir-Kteß, Aug. 19.Just published,
And to be fold at the Bcok stores of H. & P.
Rice, 50, Market-fireet 1 J. Oi rnrod,
No. 41, Chefnvtt-ftreet, and W. Young,
(joiner of Chefnut "and Second flreets,
An accurate System of Surveying;
IN WHICH IS CONT AINI D,
1. Decimal fractions, in a plain, concise,
and ealy manner.
0. The extraflion of the square root.
3. Plain trigonometry, rectangular and ob
lique. \
4. An exadl method to cafhup the contents
of lands.
5. Field surveying.
The whole being performed without the use
of icale and coinpafles, on a table of logarithms.
Pn which 19 given some account of the variation
of the needlej and the causes of its attradlion.
By SAMUEL MOORE.
A uplift T. x aswiw
Georgetown Bridge Company.
Extravil of an a<£l pafied by the Legislature of
the state of Maryland on the a9th December,
1791, entitled, " An adl for ereiling a bridge
oyer Potowmac river.
'• slnd be it em, Red, that the said directors or
any two »f them shall and may require auy sum
or sums of njoney in equal proportion from each
and every proprietor, as may from time to time
be neceflary for carrying on the building of laid
bridge ; and after giving three -months public
notice, it (hall and may be lawful for the direc
tors to sue for and rucover in the nama of the
company such unpaid requisition, with all colls
and charges incidental thereto, and legal interest
thereon from the time the fame should have
be<4i paid: And the negle<sl or refufal to pay any
such requisition after public notice lhall have
been given at least for three months in all the
newfpapersheiein before enumerated, lhall have
the effe<£t to forfeit all preceding payments made
on the (hare or shares lo negle<ffed or relufed tb
be paid t'> the use and benefit of the company."
mation of 'ucht f the stockholders as have not
complied with the requisitions heretofore made
—they ate as follow : On the ift November,
1795, a: dollars, on the 10th May, 1796, 40
dollars ; an the 10th July, 1796, 40 dollars ; on
the Ift September, 1796, 40 and on the
ift November, 1796, 60 dollan. Caution i<
now given that after the expiration of the time
limited for the continuance of this advertise
ment (three months) the law will be carried
into rigid and complete eflefl against all delin
quents.
By order of theDireflort,
WALTER SMITH, Treafuur.
O«orgrtnwn, May I, 1797. lawjm
Just deceived,
From Batavia (via Providence)
a few Boxts of Spices, confiding of
Nutmegs, Clovcsand Mice
For sale by
H ILLINGS & FRANCIS,
Penn-llreet.
May 30 itl
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 319, High-Street.
GEORGE DAVIS,
BEING busied for some time raft in prepara
tions for removing into his proient houfe,has
been under thcneceiHtyof poftp. ninguntil this day
informing the gentle men ofthc Bar generally thro'
the Umted States, that his spring importation of
law books is now arranged and ready for lale, on
terms that he trulls will untitle him to the like pre
frecnce he has experienced for ieveral years pad.
Catalogues, combining the mod varied coll' c
tion ever imported idto thij country, are printed
and will be delivered on application.
June,27. aaw 6w
City Commissioners' Office^
June it, 1797.
IN pursuance of an ordinance from the I'eleil
and common councils, paflicd the 2ad day of
May last, appointing the city cotrimiiTioners,
and prescribing their duties, feflion 9th,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
That the city is divided into five dillrifts,
•ach to be under the fuperintendancc of pne of
the city eommiflii ners, wheisto be individually
relponfible far the cleanliness of the fame, and
are at follow.
No. t. From the fnuth fide of Ce
dar-street, to the north fide of Spruce- street, un
der the superintendence of Nathan Boy«.
a. From the north fide cf Spruce-llreet, to
the north fide of Walnut-street, under the super
intendence of Hugh Roberts.
3. From the north fide of Walnut to the foufh
fide of High-flreet, under the superintendence ot
Joseph Claypoole.
4. From the north fide of High-flreet, to the
north fide of Mull>erry street, under the fuper
iiltthdenceof William Moulder.
5. From the north fide of Mulberry-street to
the north fide of Vine-street, under the super
. intendence of Nicholas Hicks
Thecleaningof High-street to be in common.
£5" A flatcd meeting of the city comimflion
era is held at the Old Court House, in High
ftreet, every Tuesday evening at 5 o'clock
July 14. eotm
Stands for Draymen, Idc.
In pursuance of an Ordinance from theSelefi and
Common Counc.h, bearing date the nd day of
April, 1797, providing for the appointment of
City Comrnifjiomrs, 15e. He ft. tie 15 tb.
following places are fixed unon by the
said City Commissioners for Stands fin-
Draymen and their Horses.
In Vine-street, caftward of Front-flrect, on
both fides.
Saflafras, High, Chefnut and Walnut-fttreets,
cad ward of Front-street, on the no.'th fide only.
Mulberry-street, south fide from Front to
Third-street.
Front-street, east fide from Vine-street to
Elr'rith's alley.
Front-street, from opposite to Black Horse al
ley to Hamilton's stores, east fide.
Waler-ftreet, weft fide from the north end of
Stomper's or Moore's stores to Pine-street.
Penn-ftreet from Pine to Ce-Jar-ftreet, weft
-fide.
Drawbridge, north fide, east of Front-street.
Spruce, Pine and South flreets, east of Front
flreet, south fide.
Dock-dreet, between Walnut-street and the
lag stone erodings, east fide, opposite George
Orkley's.
Second-street, between Saflafras and Vine
ftrefts, weft fide-
Fifth-ftrcet, east fide from Chefnut to Mul
berry flreets.
Saflafras-ftreet, from Third to Fourth-flrcet,
east fide-
No-drav or horse to stand witjun ten feet of
any pump.
STANDS FOR H/ICKNEY COACHES.
' Pine-llreet, north fide from Fourth to Fifth
fhects.
Fifth-flreet, between Chefnut and Walnut 1
streets, weft. 1
Btanch street, north fide,between Third and I
Fourth streets. - 1
July 14. mw&fim 1
A Literary Treat.
Jt'ji publi/hed, handfomi/y printed on -writing
paper, price I dallaV,
\ new edition of that popular and entertaining
work, untitled
rHE FORESTERS, an American Tale ; being
a fequc! to the hiliory of John Bull, the Clo
thier—ln aferieaof letters to a friend, with the ad
dition of two letters, alluding tb recent political
ii>anfaftions in America.
Tha following extrafl from vhe Clavis Allsgorica,
shews the principal characters that are introduced:
John Ball, the Kingdom of i.ngland'
' Hi» Mother, theCturchof England
His Wife, the Parliament
His Sifter Peg, ttie Church of Scotland
His Brother Patrick, Ireland
Lewis, the Kingdom of France
His Mistress, the Old Constitution
His. Hew Wife, the National Kcprefentation
Lord Strut, the Kingdom of Spain
Nicholas Frog, the Dutch Republic
The Franks, the French Republic
The F»refteri, the United Mates of America
Robert Lumber, Ncw-Hampfhire
, John Codline, MalTachufetts
Humphrey Plowlhare, Connecticut
Roger Carrier, Rhode Iflaid
Peter Bull Frsg, New-York
, Julius Csfar, New-Jersey
William Broadbrim, Pennsylvania
Caflimar, Delaware
Walter Pipewood, Virginia
His Grandson, George Wafhingto»
Peter Pitch, North Carolina
Charles Indigo, ■'ioutk Carolina
George Trudy, Georgia
Ethan Greenwood, Vermont
HuT'ter Longknife, Kentucky
Black Cattle, Negro Slaves
Rats, Speculators
Mother Carey's Chickens. Jaeokias
{Jjf This popular and entertaining fatirieal hilio
ry of Amarica is attributed to the Re*. Dr Bil
knat It lias a great (h ire of originality and a
boHndi with genuine humour. It is continued
down to the present time, and eharafierifes those
late political tranfaflions which have caused so
much ur.eafinefs in America.
Sold by H. and P RICE, Bookseller, No. 16,
South Second Street, and No. 50, Marke» ftjeet.
June %i>. §
LAW BOOKS,
Latest London and Dublin Editioni.
H. y P. RICE, Booksellers.
No. 16, South Second, and No. 50, Market llreet,
HAVE just received by the hte arrivals Irom
London and Dublin, theii spring importa
tion, confiding of a variety of the latest and msll
approved l aw Books, which added to those alrea
dy on hand, forms the moftextenfive colleition ev
er offeredfor sale in this country. They theiefore
beg leave to notiu, that Irom the nature of their
conne&icn'sin Dublin, they are enabled te felllrilh
editions (as they have hitherto done) at the very
lowed prices The following are among the latest
publications.
Vefey, juu'rs Reports in Chancery, a ■xcU.
Peake's Cases at Nisi Prius ; Ridgeway's Reports
in the time of Lord Hardwicke ; Floyer's ProCler«
Pra&ice i» the Eeclcrtadical Courts; Barton's
Trcatile on a Suit in Equity ; Tidd'a Pra&iee of
the Court of King's Bench in Personal AAions, a
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
on Ufea ; modern Reports, la vols. London edi
tion
H. and P. Rice expeft t« receive by the firft ar
rival from New York the 6th vol. complete of
Durnford and F.aft's Reports, thr ad part of Gil
bert's l.aw of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
new puHicationa. '
June 16.
The History of Pennsylvania,
By ROBERT PROUD,
IS now in the press, and will be published,
with all convenient expedition) by
riah PnuLSoN,jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue
to be received, ami at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed proposals, until the
work is/teady for the fuhferibers.
July 18. aawtf
Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co.
Nt. 8 Cbefnut-Street,
Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly aflertcd, very low on
short credit.
March 6. $
Richard and James Potter
HAVE removed their Counting House to No.
45, South Fifth-ftrcet.
uguft a. w&f6t
Laniafter, Harrijbvrgh Carlijle y
Shtppenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
THE public are requested to take notice, that
the partnership which has for some time sub
sisted betwean Mathias Slough of Lancaster, ani
William Geer, is now dilTolvcd . but, not »• M.
Slough infmuates to the public without just cause ;
as will more fi/lly appear by a letter on the fub
je& from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 19th
December last a recital of which is not now deem
ed neceflary. Auy gentleman who wilhes to be
more circumstantially informed of the merits of
this business, by applying to W. Geer may have
the perusal of M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfectly jaftifiabie in attaching him
felf to any other person in the profeeution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place
Now from the liberal and generous support the
public were pleased to confer on the firft effort in
this business, William Geer,'in conjun<3ion with
MeOTrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention and djfpatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can poflibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horfrs, and every appurtenance to
render the passage fafe and rommodious, inform
thof* wno wilb to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, en every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburjf,
Carlisle and Shippenfburg. The fare as hitherto 1
eft-ablifhed.
For the further accommodation of the public, '
a Stage will ftart'every Wednesday from the house
of Samuel E|dcr, in HarVifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
and return from thcoce and arrive at Harrifburg
every Saturday, so that passengers dedined for
Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed oil Mon
days,
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster. Jan. a 7, it 97-
N. B This Line »f Stages starts from the
house of William Ferr»e, in Lancaster, on every
Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
ceeding to the westward; and, from the house of
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrjburg every Wednes
day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenftnvrg, and, returns
from thence on every Thursday : performing the [
fame routine daily as in its lour from I'hiladel- I
phia. rr.wf I
City of Washington,
s c lIE M E
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificent dwelling-house 20,000 dollars,
& cash 30,000, arc 50,000
I ditto i 5,000 & cast 15,00® 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000' 30,000
1 ditto'lo,ooo & cash 10,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & ca<h 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & call) 5,0o» io,ooo
1 cash prize of 10,000
1 do. 5,000 each, are « 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,00 c
,10 do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
100 do. 50 • - 10.000
400 do. »5 - : 10,000
I,ooc do. 40 - 10,000
15,000 do. lo - 150,000
i6 >759 Prize*, ,
3.5,161 Rlaokd.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight,D»'.lara, 400,090
N. B. To favour those who may take a quan
tity of the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the L.iiT drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but onk :
And apjlroved notes, securing (jayment in either
money or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be receivedfoi anynumber not lefsthan 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of
the private buildings to be ertited in the City of
Washington—Two beautiful defig»s are already
feleifted for the fntire fronts on two of the public
squares; fjrom these drawings it ispropofed to erefl
twocentreand f our corner buildings as soon aspof
fiblp after this lottery is fold, and to convey tl.em,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
thenutuier described In the scheme for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduftion of five per cent, wilt
be made to defray theneceffary expenses of print
ing, tu- the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National University, to
be eredled within flic city of Washington.
The real fecusjtiesgiven for the paym«t of the
Vriaes, ire held liy the President and two, Diretft
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount of the lottery.,
SAMUEL HLODOET.
,§. Tiekets may ht had at the Bank of Colum
bia ; of James Weil & Co. Baltimore; of Peter
Gilmtn, Boflon ; of John Hopkins, Richmond /;
end of Richard Walk', Cooper's Ferry.
mwf
From tie Otfego HcralJ.
CAPTION.
WHF.REAS a ccmbination of men in this
county have sn.ltrtaken to enrich thtm
felves,by fabricating titles to sundry valuable traAs
of land, the propertyof gentlemen living 10 New
York, Philadelphia, London and Paris, for which
trails Of Und large funis of money have been paid
to those fraudulent men, by innocent purchasers •
It is therefore just that public information (hould
be given, to the end, that the injured may feck re-. 1
dress while the men have property, and are to be
found. Those who have been discovered are Tr
uman Harrifon, Joseph Witcomb, said now to re
side in the county of Saratoga ; Thomas Kelly and
ft vera! other! who go under fi&itious names. It is
supposed that the lands offered fcr faleon those fa
i bricated titles ate at teall worth fifty thousand
dollars. Such as we have a<9ual knowledge of are
as follows : Lots No. II and 12, Otfego patent,
thousand acres eich,thea<9nal property of William
Dellwyn, now of London ; lots No. 58 and 64,
fame patent, thousand acres each, the property of
Mr. Chaumont, now of Paris, and James Averill
and others, of this State. There is some grounds '
to suppose that the lands of Richard Wells and ;
diaries Wharton, of Philadelphia, are under their
management.—7lie Printers will do well to give
this a place in tjkeir papers, as well to caution the
public against surchafiiig those lands, as also to de
prive those rru*n in future from imposing on indivi
duafs, whicb their education and address have en
abled them to do heretofore. Witcomb has been
a fhopkeeptr of some note in this country.
The following affidavits will fct in a clear point
of view wick«dnefs of those men, which when
the public have perused, will induce them to ex
enfe the interference of Wm. COOPER.
Otfego, July ißth, 1797.
I Thomas Kelly, of the County of Otfego, hav
ing been led into an error, by John Wit, omb and
Truman Harrifon, of the fame County, to sign a
j deed to them, for lot No. 58, Otfego patent, which
: was the-property of William I. Franklin now Mr.
f Chamont's and others; snd further the said Joseph
, and Truman did persuade me to do this against my
; inclination, which was made ottt on the icth day
j of November, 1793, or set back two years so as
to bring it to that time ; and further the nam&.of
I Pardon Starks to that deed was a fiflitiou# name,
there being no such perlon there. To this I make
voluntary oath. THOMAS KELLY.
19th July, 1797.
On the 19th July, 1797, came personally before
me, Thomas Kellj, the subscriber to the above af
fidavit, and made solemn oath that it contains nbth-'
ing but tht truth.
ELIHU PHINNEY, Justice of the Peace.
On the 18th July, 1797, came before me Jacob
Kibby, a person by me well known and worthy of
good credit, who on his solemn oath did fay, that
I' two of the parties abovementioned did make ap
plication to him this deponent, some tjme in the
winter of 1796, to make thera a deed for two thou
sand acres of land in the Otego patent, and pro
mised this deponent a fharc of the profits, on the
fait of said lands, for his so doing ; and th it they
male application several times for the fame purpo e,
whi»h farvices this deponent as often rcfufed, de
claring to them that he had no right to lands, and
coulc.do no such tiling ; which daring attempt on
this d«poßent's integrity he had related among his
friend; several times, previous to making this affi- i
davit. JACOB KIBBEY.
Sworn before mc,
ELIHU PHINNEY, Justice of the Peace.
Aug. 3. iaw4W.
Thirty Dollars Reward.
ELOPED from the service of the subscriber,
on th; 19th instant, a negro man by the
name of DICK, about twenty-five yeaA of age,
; and five feetnine or ten inches high ; by trade
] a carpenter, and is a very lively brisk work- ]
man. His countenance is very good—When (
spoken to, he converses with ease and confi- 1
dence, and is pretty fagacipus. I purchased '
the said fellow of Mr.Dubney Miner, in whose J
name he has been advertised in the Richmond ,
newspapers. During his last runaway trip (last j
funimer) he wa| ejnployed a considerable length (
of time, by fotje person near Dumfries, from (
which circumstance, i conjecture, he has taken r
another nothernroute I forewarn) all persons
from giving hrn employment, of any kind
whatever, and naftersof veflelsand others, from
tarrying him ojt of this state. The above re- r
ward will bfcgfcreiiifhe is taken within forty r
miles ofthiscily; and an additional sum, in -
proportion to (he distance he may be brought,
or the trouble and expence the apprehender may /
be at, in bringing him to this place.
AUG; DAVIS.
N. B. His spparclw as of the usual negro kind, j
but he had inoie cloaths than is customary for
them to pofTtfs.
A.D.
Richmond, /une 11, 1797.
Will be Landed,
From onboard the ship A&ive, Capt.BLAlß,from
Hahibutgh,
20 baks white Rufha clean Hemp
2 calks Clover Seid
For Sale hy
Thomas Herman I.suffer,
c, North Fifth fir.-et, Ne. 14.
B Tune lb. f
I William- Blackburn,
0 LOTTERY and BROKER'S OFJICF
o No. 64 south Second flreet.
a I JCKETS in the Canal Lottery, No 11, which
0 -I commenced drawing the 19th May, FOR
; SALE. The price of tickets will rife in propor
-3 tion as the drawing advances, particularly on ac-
count of the five firfl drawn tickets, prizes of
, four thousand dollars each, on the last day of
3 drawing.
Check Books kept for examination and regifjer
ing, in the Canal, No. t, City of Washington, No.
2, and Patcrfon Lotteries.
Also, saekctn forlalein the Schuylkillbiidge and
Perk omen Bridge lotteries, which will begin
drawing in the course of the funimtr.
The business of a Brokelr in all kinds of Stock,
> Bills, Notes, Lands, &c-&c. tranfafted with the
■ utmost attention.
June % tnfrf
1 Erflcine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
,No 40 Souih Second street,
[Price 31 Cents]
f A View of the Causes and Confequen
f ces of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Ekskinx.
May 15 J
; ~ STATE TRIALS.
1 Sold by W. Youn®, Bookseller, ,Vo. 51, South Se-
I cond-flroet,
1 The Penufylvania State Trials,
the impeachment, trial,and acquib
al of FrancisHopkipfon, Judge of the Court ef
Admiralty, and John Nicholfon, Comptroller Gen
eral—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, 3
dollars.
W. Yoonc has for sale, a general assortment of
Books. Also, Stationary, retail and by the pack- ;
ege, well aflurtcd, and tntitled to the drawback if
axpwted. joly
having been appointed by
the.Envoy Extraordinary and MioiHer Pleni
potentisry ol his Britannic Mijelty, General ogent
forafliftmg Britifli creditors, and luch eirticular a
ger.ts as they may fpeeially auihoriie, in prosecuting
their claims brfors-the commifTionersfor carryi gin- :
to effeft the sixth article ot the Tretty of Amity, Con
merit and Ntiigttion btUtotc* hti bntatnic ajejiy and ;
the United Stales of America, hereby gives notice that
be has opened his offi-e at his house the south east
corner of Chelnut and fifth streets, Fbiladelphia,
where he is ready to receive all claims or
for claims with the vouchers aud documents thereof,
for the purnofe of bringing forward the f"tt>e agree
ably so the rules and orders which the boatd may
think proper to prefer be.
And as it wrill be lor the interefl of all concerned,
that the several claims be so Dated, and support.
Ed, as to prevent the delay which would arise from
ibe necefTityof obtaining further inlormatton, or ad
ditional materials,from persons residing at a dillance,
the general agent thinks It his duty to add, (for the
direction chiefly of those, who, not having employ
ed particular agents, imy leave the profccution of
■ heir claims to his charge and management) that ail
such claims ought io particular to fei tortn—
lft. The proper description and fitnation of the
creditor or claimaot, tod original debtor, rcfpe£l
ively.
ed. The date andnature of the original contract or
debt.
1 3d. When, in what manner, and to what extent,
1 the creditor or claimani w.i prevented or itnpeded,
by the provision, operation or deled ol law, the
decifiomand practice of courts, or reflrainrof exe
cution, from recovering payment of the debt io
' question.
4ih The loss and damage incurred or sustained,
in consequence ol such impediments, whether the
fame may have arisen from the infolveuey, thangeof
situation, or death of the debtor, the loss of legal
remedy from lapse of time, or other causes impairing
the value and fecurityof the debt, which would not
have so operated if such impediments had notexifled.
And sth The particular grounds and reasons on
which the claimant maintains, in the terms ot the
treaty, that '• by the ordinary course ot judicial pro
ings, the creditor cannot now obtain and actually
have and receive full and adequate compensation" tor
the losses and damages so fullaiued.
The general ageni thinks it his duty further to sug
gest that the leveral claims ought to be accompanied
and fypported by the affidavits of the claimants duly
sworn and regularly atteffed, both as to theexiflence
of thp debts claimed, atid such other circumftanccs
as niay be withiu their own knowledge relpeflively.
And wherever the claimanta in Hating the nature of
their evidence (which mud in every lnllsnce be the
bed of which the cafe is capable) have occasion Jo
leferto the tellimony of witnesses, it will be proper
to apprise the general agent of the names and places
of refrdence of such witacKeiand thefaSito be effa
blifhed by their testimony.
Wm. Moore Smith.
Philadelphia, Junr Bih. 1797. d v
For Sale,
That well known place, called Vandsgrift's
, T P R R Y,
ON Nefhammy creek, 18 mile'e from Phi
ladelphia, on the f>ew York port road,
containing 74 acre« and 94 perches. Upon the
premises are a large two flory stone house occu
pied as a tvern, and a good one story stone kit
chen, a large frame liable with a good threshing
floor, and lome out buildings—also a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
this place is a molt elegant situation fora gentle
man's feat, commanding a view of the Nefham
iny to its jundlion wiih the Delaware, amd thence
across to the Jersey shore. It has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
For termt apply to the SBbfcriber, ]
MORDECAI LEWIS. • j
May 14- Stawtf. '
COLUMBIA HOUSE |
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBRIDGE with much pleas- '
ureand refpetfl, returns her ftneere ac- '
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement '
she has received during four years residence in
Philadelphia ; and allures her friends and the .
public, so far from intending to decline hcf.
school, she has made a superior arrangement fcr ~i
the more convenient accommodation of her J
scholars.—Every branch of uleful and polite r
edutatian is particularly attentietf "to bj- Mrs. f
Groombridge and mailers excelling in their c
refpeilive profeffioni. t
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets. a
Jnnestfi, 1797. simftf c
The situation is perfectly healthy ; and made j
more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot j
of ground adjoining the house. r
fuji Published,
And to be had of Meflrs. DoVfon, Camphcll t ßice,
Cary, and the other pricipal Bookfcllers in t'i\
city,price one dollar, twinty-five cents,in boards,
New Views of the Origin of the
I'ribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, M. d.
June 2«. *Ct
No. 183.
u DiJt'riCi of Pcnnfyl-vania, to ivit i
' t,. s. "R E l ' T REMEMBERED, that on ;h<*
- - fifteenth day of June, in the twenty
mil year of the Independence of the United
States of America, Jaw s WoodhoUss of
the said district) hath ds-pofited in this office the
title of a book, the right thereof he claims as
author, jn the words following, to wit :
" The Young Chemist's Pocket Companion,
_ beihg a Defcrlption ot a Portable
" containing a Philofophicil apparatus, and a
'• great number of Chemical Agents, bv which
h " any person may perform an endless variety 0?
I " amufirig and inftrudling Experiments, defi.n
---" ed for the use ot ladies and gentlemen, and
' " intended to promote the cultivation of the
1 " Science of Chemistry in the United States of
" America. ByjAMts Woodhouss, M. D.
" Profeflbr of Chetr.iftry, j n the University of
" Pennsylvania. President of the Chemical So
• " ciety of Philadelphia &c.
, "At present every thing that is not denomi
i " nated Chemistry, is but a small part of a fyf
" tern of natural knowledge.
_ Priestly on Sir."
. In conformity to the afl of the Congress of the
United States, intituled, " An atf for the encour
agement of Learning, by securing the copies of
■ maps, chsrts, and books to the authors and pro->
prietors of such copies, during the times there
in mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL, Clerk of the
Diftriil of Pennsylvania.
J"'y fjt-w.tf
No. *i 88.
Di/lriß of Pennsylvania, to wit :
(l. 1.) "R K 1V that on the
twenty sixth day of July, in the twen
ty fccord year of the independence of the United
States of America, John Fenno, of the said dif
trict,harh deposited in this office the title of a book,
the right whereof he claims as proprietor, in the
words following, to wit:
" Ot fervations on certain documents contained
r " in No. V. and VI. of " The History of the Unit*
" ed States for the year 1796," in which the charge
" of speculation. again!!, Alexander Hamilton,late
' " Secretary of the Tresfurr, is fully refated—
• \ " Written by himfeif M
In conformity to 'he a& of the Corgrefs of th«
Ucited States entituled, " An afl for the encour
agement of learning, by securing the copies of
maps, charts and bdoks to the authors anrf propri
etors of furh copies, during the times therein men
tioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clert of tic Djlrifl of Ptnnfylvania.
T"'" *7 ' vv 4 w
Public Notice is hereby given,
. HPHAT at Juneterm, 1797, a petition w*»'i
J- presented to the Court of Common Pleas,
held it York Town, in the State of Pennsylva
nia, at the instance »f James Short, praying
the Court to supply a loft deed made by a cer
tain Andrew Hickenluber, flu Hugh Morrifon,
James Morriion, and John Sample, executor®
to Hans Morrifon, deceased, for fix hundred
acres of Land, situate in Menallea
township, in the county of York .-—Air per.
sons who h«ve any obje£lions to snake to the ob
je<H of the said petition are desired to attend at
the Court Houle, in the town of York, 00 the
i(h day of September next, otherwise the loft*
deed will be supplied.
JOHN EDIE, Clerk.
July 18.
30 Dollars Reward.
RAN Aw.iy on .Saturday last, twr> indented Ser
vants, Gifford Dally, a mulatto boy about 7
years of age, a Aim light built adiTe fellow, c?.ij
read and write.five feet seven or eight inchci high,
■has a heavy countenancehad on a fuftian coatee
and trowfers, a high crowned hat, fine shoes Ac
Allan Hellons, a black man, about 24 years of
age, five feet seven or eight inches high, a thick fee
clumsy built fellow, particularly about the brtecK;
had on a fsilor's blue jacktt fined with fwanfkii ,
dark striped vest, fuftian trowfers, high crowned
hat coarse jhoes, &c.; each of them had several
shirts and several other cloathes with them. Thir
ty Dollars will be paid for the runaways of 1; dol
lars for each, and reasonable charges, or delivering?
them at No. 54, North Third-street.
fh« black fellow is about a year from Lewis
Town, in the County of SufLx, state of Dela
ware, and has taken the boy with him.
J"'f mtuSrfiw
C AUTIO N. :
WHEREAS Richard Lake has been at
tempting to fell a certain messuage or ten
ement and lot of ground, situated on thelouth
fide of Vine-fttreet, in the city of Philadelphia
containing in breadth, on Vinc-ftreet. Cx;een
feet, and in depth, southward, seventy five feet,
bounded on the north fide by Vine-street, on
theeaft by ground late of Samuel Rhodes and
Sarah his wife, on the south by ground late of
John Pembe ton, and on the weft by another lot
then about to be granted to Joseph Hidings—
This is therefore to caution all pe. sons agajnft
purchasing the above defcribcd property, the
fame having been mortgaged by the said Rich
ard Lake to William Spade.
SARAH SPADE.
July 14 eoaw
M jical lnjlrument Manufactory ~
No. 167, Arch-Strtet.
HARPER., harpfich ( ord,grand,portable grand,
fid:-board, pier table and square piajjo forte
maker from London, returns thanks to his friends
and the public, for their liberal enc&uragement,
and hopes that by his afliriuity and alrention to ev
ery branch of his buCnefs, to merit a continuance
of their favors. Piano fortes made on the newest
and mod approved plans, with pedals, patent,
swell. Hiid French harp flop, which heflatreis
himfeif will ue found on trial by unprejudiced
judgrs, to be equal if not fuperiorto any import
ed, and twenty percent cheaper. Any int'ru
ment purchased of him, it not approved of ijj
twelve months, he will exchange.
N. B. All kinds of Musical inftrumer.ts made,
uned, and repa reo with the greatest accuracy,
dispatch, and on the moil reasonable term , u.f
ready money only.
Second hind Piano Fortes taken in exchange;,
May 1 . .
Forty Dollars Reward.
RAN away from the fubferiber 011 the fecg
ond day of this inlt. July, a Mulatto Man,
named Will Howrer-, «Uo.it A*rtv year;; ot up
five feet ifven or eight inches high, raiher
chunky m«de ; had on when he went away, a
drab colored cloth coat, striped purple trowi'eri
and jacket, it is probable he will change hi*
cloathes, as he took a number with him. The
saul fellow formerly belonged to Mr. Charles
Blake of this place; and it is expedite! he has
made towards Jones's Nec k, in the Delaware
State. —Any person apprehending !he fttid fel
low, and securing hiip so that 1 can get him a.,
gain, fball receiye the above fewar.' if taken
<fst of the county, and Twenty Dollars if in
the county, and all reasonable charges if bro't
home.
JESSE \REED,
Queen Ann's County, Mar> and.
July 3. Wat