«Ja?etre « „ ®nit« Philadelphia bdiy Advertiser.
♦ . ■
Numbs» 1653,}
Marlhal's Sales.
"nitcd States, )
Pe'»i<ylvania Di(Vr(ft J ff
B-VrSlr* Wri <' of Ficiw iflucd mtaft
, ofthe Uniieil Statet for the Pen
n T 3 / 1 " 1 ! ° dircftcd K ill' be exoofed
Pfbhc Sale, on Tuesday thi XT
January next, at feveu cVeloclt. U
] t hiiadelphia, the foJlowiiiiff tra£h and Da
,crli of Vacant and unimorrfved lands fi'iuted i* -i
County of Bedford in thoState ot fttatyHMowJ
. wit 1 Oneirafi of land cabled Rash flonoin, fituat.
oo thr water l of Licliru crfck, in Sellall townlh;
# <ri tht fame county, bounded by lands offaroh \K^ r
man, W, l( i, m p&hong, R ,: r i
coiitatning three hundred and Viinety-one acres an,
Stance ,! " rty ' W ° and tht >
fhlo'in '.'hf/ 3 "" 1 CtuatetJ in Belf.ftt .wr
M n C " ,rUy ' boundcd by lands ol Geor.
John Rulfle and others, containing four hundred
lour acre, and ; hree qnarters, and (he u | ua ! allowauce!
t ° ry Ridse ' si ' ° n tK
waaerjol Tonolaway creek, ,n Belfall townfhio ii
C e?Z V ' by U " d > ° f
• '>nd others r Gco W Barman, M ine. l>elho., g
and others, contaigmg four hu.idrcd and forty-fou.
ac,e,.ndn,„e,y-r, x pe.eh. s and allowance,
*"t7 C V , CtUC(i Gold Mil,r > on th,
th«fT«er , T, r ay J C 'f k 'Ownlhip. ir,
", U^ V " b l " U ' ldcd b '/ la " d « of Will iam Wood,
IrlerSwarulcr, J>hn M'lett.Jacob Boreman, Tho
f » nd " °'hrrs, cuntainlng three hundred and
Th V A"' ,X P- rcl! «^ d ailpwancea, &c.
_ she foregoing t.atfs „e a ]| p JlerUfdi fl . iztd and
Phiii P
William Nichols, Marjhal.
. J 3- d„i.
Maifhal's Salels.
United Stat.es,
Peunfylvania Diftric*, \ /
RL Vi ° writ " f fitrri facils out of
*bc Aiftrna court of the Umte.l 5t..., Mr
tbe tOnnfyj-vania dlflrifl, to me dire<*U<l, will
he expeltd to fJe, on Tuesday tbe fec-ontl
> ay ot jauuary next, at seven Scheie ir. the
eveumg, at the •Merchant.' Coffec-houfe in i
Jeiond-itieet, in tbe «t v of Philadelphia, the
tratft. or parcels of vacant and unim
proved LA NO, l-.tuated in the county of So
merfct, Iwe county of Bedford in the flat? of
Pennsylvania, viz.—
A certain tratf, ftirveyeJ in the name of Ma
ry £allenun, containing thru: hundred Weighty
acres and the usual allowance kc. (ituated an the
waters of Stony creek, in Stoney creek to\»nfhip,
and bounded by lands surveyed for Jofcph Kiik
britte, John Roads, Charles KeinJhsw, and o
thers.
• A certain other trafl, fnrv-y»d in tb» name
- ef George Campbell, co«amijig,
and ten acres and allowance Set. situated on the
■weft Ode of AUeghany Mountain,on the waters
of Stony creek, in Stony creek towpfhlp, for
merly Be'lford, now Soinerfet county,and bound
ed by lands surveyed for Joseph Kirkbrida, Ma
ry Eafleroan, Jshy Rowl'er and others.
A certain other tr»a, iurveyed in the mn of'
Benjamin Lodge, containing four hundred and !
fourteen
f-tuated on the watera of Clear run, a braneii of I
Stony creek, in Stony creek in the :
cour.iy AtOrel'aid.and bounded by lands furveved !
for \Williarn Oaitaik, William Skinaer, CcoVce
Campbell-and
A cefwin other trad, fnrveyeTin the nime of
Richard Williyus, containing three hundred
1 and ninety-seven acres and a half and allowance 1
floated on the fkie road and old road lead
iijjf'from Bedford to Pitifburg, and or. the wa
ters of S/otiy creek, in Stony creek townlhjp, in
the county aforefaid, and bounded by lands fur 1
veyed for Jacob Stotler, Wiliiam Gfctamy, Sa- ]
nmel Adams r.»d c-ther..
■\ certain other t«£», surveyed iu the narse
of William Gattack, containing four hundred ii
and one aerej »nd a half and allowance &c. fito- C
ated on Clear run, a branch of Stony creek, in f
Stony creek in the county aforefaid, o
and bounded by lands surveyed for Robert Wil- o
lianis, VV illiam Skinner, Benjamin Lodge and 0
dtherj. ° o
A certain oalier n-ia, surveyed ,in th* name 0
of WKliims, containing four hundred h
and two acres and a half and allowance &c, situ- P
ated on the waters of Stony creek, in Stopy J'
creek town/bip, in the county aforefaid,. and 01
bounded by lands purveyed for Jacob Ziglar,
Rii hard VVi|!larns, Samuel Adams and others.
A certain other furveyed iu the name
Of James Joinifon, coi/taiuing three hundred 1 D
and ninrty-five acres and allowance &c. situated
enbeth fides of the state road, on the waters'of
"tony creek, in Stony creek tqwnlhip, inthe r
county aforefaid, and bounded by lands surveyed (
for Alexander Jobnfon, Joseph Engle, Conrad c 1;
Weaver and others. a [,
A eertiin other tr»d>, surveyed in the name be
of Alexander Johnson, containing four hundred ed
and five acres and a half and allowance &<-. (it«-
ited on the waters of Stony creek, in Stony
('reek town&ip, in the county aforefaid, and
bounded by landa surveyed for John Lombard,
James Johnson, Joseph Engle and others,
A rertain other tradl, surveyed in the name (
of Jflhn Johnson, containing four hundred and C.
eight acres and three quarters and allowance fee
situated on the waters of Stony creek, in Se,
Stony creek tovvnfhip, in the couuty aforefaid, s 'a
and bounded by lands surveyed for iiobert Tuck
jiefs, John Shoemaker, Mithias baker and m
•thers.
A certain .ether (furveyed in the namf mc
«jf William Campbell, containing faur hundred on
feventeen acres and a quarter and allow- ]
ante &c. situated adjoining , Jones's road, attd a r.
on a large run emptying into Laurel-hill creek, '
otherwise ca'Kdthe North Fork of Turkey-foot, (
in Millfi>rd trtwnfhip, in the county a&irefaid, f
and bounded hv laiuis surveyed for Joseph Bark- V
«r, Mathiaj G'.itet, Benjamin Hufsle and others. Hi*
A ccrrain other trail surveyed in the name of d,e
Belfry Gidbrcaih,cnii(oining three hundred&ninu- cou
*ty nina acres nnicfle quarter and ai owance, &c, [ e / s
iitualcd On Rcarjni; run, a small briuch of I.aurcl I^l '
!fHI creel:, in MJford toivnihip, in the county a- c&i "
fori f ud, and bound«d.i:y lands surveyed for John at '
Driver, Mofea Wrker, J*feph Barker and others.
A c itaiii other trail surveyed in the name cf -j
Joseph Caiiter, containing four hundred and three vfr ,
acres and one quarter and allowance, Ac. situated ,|. e ,
on a large run cmplying into Laurel Hill treck a- V i!la
bout a rtiiUabrt*.\he falls, in Milford township. in of t>
tlie county afarclrud, and bounder! by lands fur- sale
vayed for Mith'.as CJoflett, William Campbell, Bet- mon
f;y Oaifcreath and others. D
A certain other surveyed in the naoae of
J.mi„s Ciffna, containing tour hundred and one a- r
crrt and one quarter and allowance, &c. situated
on Jones's Mill run,.a branch Laurtl KiU creek, A
in Milford tov.'athlp, inthe county aforefiid, and to fc
• by lands surveyed for Robert M'l onnel, andl
(Joli» Heudill, Be: j .nvn Eatikfou arvd other j. t)
__f„ £ PHI A : WEDNESDAY £Vi'A T IN G , DECEMBER 27,
llThfr Ail t ■ I " ■■ - S "•* ' - —W
j&s^-anstsS".:
■ >**"•- yj, K° V | n ii ir.d hoijri
5f slvjeaqrajg"** J
jß* j4"»asttra
ndpar- twtrry three'acres and ,;u
'* rr e * c OB hoa - w«e#» of Skaver^Mili
IU —to nw, atrd oiV bioth fifties ©f the ■ , nl j'
ituatfd Milford and part in Somerset townlhipin rh-^Hi"
: B t; p >■'« *■*»; Lt Zv^t
dfe- others. lini^er ' * ll)iam Sl '" ff ' ***
faj«- sod """" ° thcr furveyed in the nam, of
£e. JaT.' C ' Ulnin S four hundred and three a
r.wn- C 7 S al ' d ' hre f <!<«««. and allowance, See. fuuat
;eo tf> « waters of Sharer's mill run in So
"l,'r!=t t(swiifhip arid Somerset county, late Jl.tford
:d 3,113 Alt '?' «• -*?. ci>uat f' iaJ bounded by lands
auces. Wiiliam SheafF, Jame, dJJcU,
n the and others.
;!! in wi "TJ" ° ther "**' rurvc 'n the name of
K * n ' am C ° nlainin S three buadred and eich
, fo gS fin"l,!| aCre, ' | an ° ne < s uart<:r ' attd allowance, lie.
f Crel Z \ * C , '"I"
,k , about a mile above the 'middle road, io So-
I the merfet townfcip, Somerset county, late MuKord
food* "> w nfl»P. Bedl ; f'f county, and bounded by la.)d,
T,t S ,U L ' ?* reUth ' William C —.
j a i Robert Marrin, aud otndrs.
&c. *, u rt! " D '" a < furve >' <-d in the mmt of Sa
a"d l«ni C ° nU """« f ' iUr hu "<»rrd «nd th.r
ci; 1 y If ?if « allowance, &c. situated on both hdcj
the State roid on the waters of Stony creek in Stos
ny creek foWHffi.p, formerly Bedford, now Somer.
£ county and bounded by land, fu,vey<d for Sattuel
'J. H| l»ga-'| Cornelius Barm, Jacob Slottex and oihers
ri Vgi"°
C " W *f"> cWaming three hundred and »iricty.i W o
acres and t ffalf Ind allosradce. &c. Atuatrd on lie
„ „ f
Biddlc sad Petrr footman and others.
ontl The foregoing lands are held by warrant of Surrey, '
, and ukc " ,n "«mioß as the property sf
ill Philip R.-iUy.
; the William Nichols, Mar/hah
s"; - D«embrr i 3 dtaj.
: of MarJhaPs Hales.
United States, 1 _ I
•la- Pennsylvania Dittrift, |
the X-J Out of the dillrift court of the United States, and c
lip, to me dire&ed, will be fold at public Sale at the mer- »
ik- c h»>"'i Coffee.Ho(ile, in Second llrect, on Wednesday
o- e yth day of December inft. at 6 o'clock in tbe d
evening, all that piece or parcel «f meadow ground t'
me lituate, lying and inthe townlhipof Paffyunck, C
, f j >»d county of Philadelphia, on the road leading to it
State I Hand Ferry, cootaining about fifty.four acres "
e and three pe-chcs, whereon are erefted a two llory "
:ra brick MelVuage, out houfca and a barn; alio one o.' "
or- ther traft Or piece of meadow ground, fituite m tlae "
id- eownfhip and county, and nearly on the oppolite p
[j. fide of the faidroadto the laid ferry, containing sixteen a
ctesjc three quarters; alfoa Kuernentaod lot -
g f fQ r Piece of ground litoate Ch the north fide of High T
nd I ,j '• bel w "" S| h 6th streeti > 'n 'he city of Ph{. J
| ! adrlphia, coimirring in front on High street, thirty
r ! i hr ' C ,rrt " lnd o*" depth two hundred feet,
I liojtaaa eafl bv property of Hannah Pemberton,
| north by .S.Hjth a'lev, well by pr operty bf William '
i'ii He.'!, and (bath bv H»){h ftrtet aforclaid.
;e S 'lard and taken in execution as the property of
and to be fold by
5 William Nichols, Mar/ha/.
d Marshal's Offic_ ")
:e December 15, 1)97. j
' Decemb<r r'f ( j l f
n Marftials Sales,'
r United States, 1 „ J" 0
Pennsylvania Diftrift. J " th;
BV v rtue of 1 Writ of rendition! exponas, issued 1
out of the Circuit C»urti of the United States,
d in and for the Peunfylrama Dlflriift ofthe Middle
I- Circuit, and to me direfled will be fold- at public -
n sale at the Marshals 01J?ce in Race Street No. 117. 1 " n
, on Saturday the joth day of December inft. at 12
[- o'oloek at noon, two elegant engraved Copper plates '
d of Sbakefpeare, one plate of Harmony, B.ntolezzi,
one plate of prudence, do. one plate 01 meekness, do
e one plate of beauty, do. and one plate of Harvuft
i home do—Srized and tsktn in execution as the (
_ property of TriPranj L'atuplylde Freeman, and
John Nichplfen, Merchant*, trading un jer the firm
j of Freeman and Company, rr
And to be fold by
William Nichols, Marshal. Aor
- Marshals office > * al
I December 181)11797 J dtf
Ma
I ONE0 NE of thc lat ® firm of FREEMAN W Co.
' thinks it a duty he owes to himfclf, to 4e-
» clare, th»t he is no wife in the property
above a<Wcitife4.by the Marshal!! nor ought he to
be fufcjeifl to the said action, which will be difput- cr I
ed by theparty ychofe interest it If. « *
1 rijiram Bamfylde Freeman.
December 11 dtjoth
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
'(lf not bis ore difpafed of at privals sale) .
/"AN Monday the H/ltdayof January next, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Cof
fee House, in Philadelphia, Tweutv-Six Thoufaqd
Seven Hundred ar.4 Eighty acres of LAND,inth«
State or MeWoYoik, between the northern bounds i u
of Pennsylvania and thc Sfc'qliehanna, now, or late
in the to% v n(hips of Hamden and Warren, and coun
ty of Montgomery. Onfc fourth of the pufrcfeafe
money to be paid at the time of sale ; for the residue - nc
credit Of one, two and three months, will be given,
on invereft fecurity. \~2
Dfc* 4. gfawtS. -*r
To be Sold at Public Vendue, *»
(If not before disposed of at private sale)
ON Monday the firlt day of January next, at fix 'fi C k<
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Coffee f) *
House, in Philadelphia, Forty Thousand Nine Hun- • ai
dted and Thirty-Nine acres of LAND in Green in S a |
county, Commonwealth of Pennfylvania,on tha VVa- *? n * '
ters of FjQi and Wheeling Crick, and teu Mile Run. tl . Gn . v
I'hefc lands are fertile, well timbered ard abound in r,c * a
coal; they were Jfold ten years ago for ,53. per acre, Unior
patented ea»Jy in 1787, except 3,700, which were pa- *
tented in { the greatelt part of them were lur- Icllinii
I veyed in 1783. difcou
Thi« is between the Ohio
very convenient to witcrearriaoe—about 19 mileb from by
»4»e town of and from 14 to 10 iVnm the * o v!
villages of Greenfburgh and Wheeling. One fourth
of the purtfhafe money is to be paid, at the tune of ']/]
sale; for thc isiidue a credit of one, two, and three
months will be given, on intefell and good fecUiity.
Dec. 1. f
~ ; To be Sold,
r i'he time of a Negro Boy, Phitad
out fifteen year6-of age, has years yet to be r
to fctve ; he is an excellent house fervanr, a&ivs accord
andheahh-/. Enquire of tis Printer.
iJ.cerab;; x. . diw Ju.'j
By JohnFenno, N°- , rp . V/ ., vA
ftoe ; rrefli Rai%s.
in ml - iuft Unjing
tSotori- r :<7 *1 H rce ' Ao * tht Q# °r Y "
J«,e, Ul l] i &!! w; 'v 00 " 11 ' 1
of i »f- O•" h a'i' ° r < "" ClL S ;i '> fira > rs , aatJ licks
- W? «
a Amh9n y * %
? ZZ if'CbS
ed for , _ HAVE POR SALE,
1 Scott At their Stoafcs on tt'alnut ftreee Wharf
. . La J^" ah Sugars, white and brown
im»of 25 HWs. Jair.aita do
?°° 9 ?^ S ° f broid Nankeen's
i» s": §®ST,a"""'" d
SS
pteU, Old ,»d Port Wine in hogfteads
- S«1 Canvass, aborted, No. ito 8
Xh "J es of, M»nchefter Goods, Dimities,
&c 2D r A C^ aPl,,Thidtft;tS ' Cotduro '/ f ' &c "
•Hui Wars « :cd
B So- Ulack quart Bottl<s
llord Vellow Ocr« in calks
Unas Aquantit /.f wri.ihg Slate., Hate In k Stands, Sc.
'ate., Ivo quarter calks Q U (, I'owder
Ihti lavc SALE ur CHARTER,
thir-
Thcjh'tp AfOLLf , burthen J4O tons, a,|
fides S oori vc "" cl - •»"« 1 completely fitted.
Stos The brig AMA'/.ON, bill-then 1300 bar-. \
ma- rck, may bere»dy'lor sea in a few days.
rtuei 'l'l,* whole of the above vessels to be seen at
[® r s. Walwpftreet Wh»rf. $■ my. *i.-
i.vo A pcifon well acquainted wrrh '
rhci theory an <lpraAiceof book-ketping.whohasiieeii !
ar.dotj.crs, »
.■ w,,uld ue I'ladfo beemjVlayed, cither as an aifcnt '
inn 01 " " r I" polling hooks ( Sating uh£.it!, : >
JCcountt; or in excci.Ji ; auy otherkind»T writ
rey, lh »' in "epch OrErigji f.. ' t
yoi A note adareflid to J. A. and left at tfa'is office,
will be punihi'aßr attended to.
Aovemter 30. Jawtf n
FOR SALE, at
Wm, Young's Book Store, £
No. 51, Second ftrect, thf corner ofChefnut Areet, »
D F.POR.T of the Committee of the House of
IC( j *V. Reprcfentutives of the United States, appoin*. T"
,-hI •'J to prepare and report Articles of Impeaefimer.t If
er- WILLIAM BLOUNT, a Senior of the ,
lay United States, impeached of high triines and mif
ihe demeanors, made in pursuance of a rafolution of
nd the Holifaof ft.eprefentativ«9, authorizing the said gr
:k, Committee to lit during the recess of Congrofs,ind on
to iaftroAing them »to esquire, and, by all lawful A
es " means, todifeover the Whole nature and extent
ir y " of; the offence whereof the (aid William Biount
O- " Hands impeachej, and who are thtf Barties and
" associates therein." 1
Printed by order of tbe House of Repr'fntativts. 1
December io. § -I
? James CT y Samuel W. m!
T AT THEIR STOfyS, o'cl
No^i 3> corner of Arch and Prooi streets,
n,' Wi fOK sue, ]
m ' C*tton and worded HoCery in triitkn, alforted "
A few bales red, white, and yeHbvr Flannels
of Ditto futty romall Handkerchiefs Of
Ditto Pullicat silk ditto tur.
Ditto fondichsrry and Madrafs ditto v . and
Ditto Gurrahs
Bengal black Tafttits the;
4CKJO pieces Nankeens, and 1
Few thefts heft Hyson T«a
Atfo—lsoo boxes bed London Window Gljfs,
from Bby6,to 19 by 14—and 15 hhds. GJafs To
Ware, a(Torted, which they will difpofc of cheaper 0
thau any in the city. p
1 nnvember «8. ( - l t(
Landing this day, 3
i*rem on board th# fqhooncF Wc '
i id Crawley, Matter« P^y
; it pfpw * nd f Jamaica RUM,
j FOR SALE BT pro\
George Latimer & S(/H.
: vo-uemher 9. J
i James Ssf Richard Smith,
TAKE the liberty of informing. t()eir friends
and the public, that tkfy have removed thgir D
llorc to No. J4, South Front Jlrtct next door to id
ward Fox's AuSicn Room, where they have at
this time for sale, a large and alTorinient of
European & Eaji India Goods,
Many of which are just imported in the Clothier,
William Pcnn, &c. &c.
0(fl. 4/
NOW LANDIHCT bruJh
At South-street Wliarf,
The Cargo of the Ship Concord,
Captain Thompson, from Bitavia. -V
About ~oc tons nrft quali'-y Java Coffee (the
whole having been feleded)
80 tons Java Sugar,, in canillers and bags
10 legurcs of old Arrack ' j.
Nutmegs, Mace and Cloves y* A
FOR I/ILE Br J\
PETER BLIGHT. libera
Who etfo offers For Sole, ty> an
Just lande i from ship Atqity, from JaMaica. lie gel
jo® hhils. Jamaica Sugar, and
170 do. do. Rum. '
november2s. d6w he wi
- —. 'He de
Canal Lottery—No. 11.
WILL commence drawuig Monday, the zoth and z;
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at cuuibc
Seven Dollar 1, at Vm. BLACKBURN's Lottery arran^
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Secfitid-ftreet— the dif
Tickws iu the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, a; Tut ar.dG<
Dollars, where ckefle book? are kept lor register- attend
ing and examining -in these, the City of Walhjpg- houses
ton, No. 11. and Patcrfon Lotteries, apd iafornja- ed at 1
tion where ticketsr.iay be had in moll Of the Lotte- cul:trs
ries authotifid Vy law in any of thc States of the Def.
Union. TV
N, 11. The bufinefi of a io buying and '"'
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities, P-iJfa
difcountilg Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of cha.idi:
Lands, Houses, &c. &c. will be duly attended to, edition
by Wm. BLACKBURN. Chi.ftm
uovnxbrr 15. . §- '■
The History of Pennsylvania, Otii
BY KOBERT PR'ODD, cM:ch
Tg npw in thejjreJ's, arid will be ptib'iiflied, is f.ice
i. with all convenient expedition, by ZfcCH A- w ith f
ri ah i'dULSiiN, jun. Noi 80, Chefnut-ftreet, ani j c ],
Philadelphia, where fubferiptidns will continue ~ ,
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library, w Dc
iccording to tbe printed propolals, until the
work is ready for the lubferibtre.
July 18. aawtf Dec. ]
or North America.
landing , "\ H£ arj noised, mar an
*>P Va- for "* s year,
X'.satid . ->'Dp]d at t*e on Monday, the Krh of
d licks t-n o'clock.
Maftar KaCH'ARD WELI.S, Cajlicr.
W^cexnherii.
7 "; t SchuyHT^nl.
-4-- . £,H ® St.oAhohja't are hereby nctifieti, that tS
fqr Prffidett and Managers, for tfe enlu.
ing ivill b<f held at the Coiftiiaey's office, on
irf, Aext, at ioo'clock,4.M.
•own n W , M - M OORE SMITH,
Decern her ir. . mw^tnt^j
Schuylkill aiid'SuiquehaunaGanal.
efts '< »St©ckh«?hierß arc hereby notified, that the
em&Um tor eSd*nt and for eniu
: 'PS.JWJ, at<he office, qn
the firi, Monday in January r.crt, at jo o'clock
A - M - ,Dec. 11. nvw&ftlffimT '
likics, Pennsylvania P6piilation Com
e.Stc.
pany,,
J K hereby, notifie,!, that an
r,h 4|,iou of Officers for ihe ensuing year, will he
fceid at the Company's office, no. jj, north Fourth
s, &c. -'feet, on Wednefdsy, the 10th day of January
ne«, at u o'clock.. ,
fiy order g. the Efiard,
U, a SOL. MARACHE, Sec'™.
occ y cr 16 : eodticthj
Infilraftce C6m'pa'ny of North „
™ Bt j . America.
SUjckholdet# are heroliy inforoied. 'hat a
■ltn "atea jnecting of the Company will be heldjat
Wn on th« ninth day of January (he- ~
(:ers, l-'ceud l'ficfdcy in the month) for the lijec- .*
trent ,M J O ' twdlty*fi ve forrho <W2ing year, f
trfed> J- •• ' £IWN. HAXAKD, Sec'ry. b
frit- . '<• thScmtotliT' ' a .
kce ''i'-'delpitiaandLancafterTurn
pike Company.
Stockholders are hereby notlfiud, that tHc
-L annual Eleflion for Officers fir the
yenr,will bt held at the-Comoany's Ofti*« m Phila
delphia, oil thftfeeond Monday in January neit.at
eet, 10 o'clt«*, a. m. Wn. OOVKTr, Ste'ry.
"Of - •"dernier 7 . ats m&wt7 j
uu* Z- u " "
ent Infurancfe Company of North A
the f « .
lit America.
ot 1 Meeting,«f Wp.-l* IfeM, »• cc
aid greeably toadjournmeqt, at the Company's office,
lod on firft Monday in January next, at Ii o'tHfk, J i
ful A- M. EBIiN. HAZARD, SecVy. Nu
December 14. th&mtiftj
'al Infurarice Company Lil
THE SfATE OF PENNSYLVANIA. '
es. 'T'HE Stockholders are hereby notified, that an p. O;
-I EleAion for thirteen DireAsrs to serve for
9t)e year, will be held at the company's Office, on Jr.?'
r, JVlonday, the eighth day of January next, at 11 pT
o'clock. **•
. SA.M. W. FiSHER, See'ry. &
December .4. dfjithj ® >
:d A Fifty Dollar Bank Note, tot
Of the Bank of thc.Unit^dStates, was loft ou Sa
turday last, between (he Ba*lk of the_United Stages
and the Horse mykct—lf an honest person has
fi/und ir, and w'dl leave it with the Priilter hereof; _
they (hall be handfomety rewarded.
December n. eo4^t
fs NOTICE. X
d To holdirj O/ GREMZEAFs rc^ T
cr and EDWARD FOX*s Engagements
JN coal'equftjce 0/ many having ii.-en. prevent
ed, from late unavoidablp circum'flarrces frotr.
obtaining their Certificates, agreeablf to, former
notice. The Tiuftees now Infprmthem, they appf
1- are - I in tl
ply \yjthin futy.days, at Ho. 8 Cfielrmt Street, A
and thole wI.I do not, will beconfulcrtd as re. b ' v ' l
linquifhing their claim on the Aggregate Fund lc '
provided for their payfjtent.
HENRY PRATE,
THCMiS W. FRANCJS,
JQIiN MHiLBR, JUN. • I
J.OUN, a§hley,
I, JACQB BAKER. B t
r December 15. . tlftct Ja
* Kqr Sale by the Sub-icribcrs, „
f Primtjßice in whale and.bats tierces vz
Br/ir.dy a -
XfnrfiUp! Wine <5
' Molajfes ~~
Georgia and Carolina Indigo Gf
Ravens Bud and one boghead'of paitt
brujhes. • >
N. (3* J. Frazer. vx
Tfo. 95, Santa Front Street. Ale
No*, f, dirt,: Lonci
: Music. '"t!
- . ■ p L. LE NZ, ' m
Tjeachflr ot Vocal.and indrumcctai Muiic, p ol ''"
thaaksto the Ladiej and
Gentlemen, from whom he received a very :
liberal encouragement fines his refidcncc. in this ci- ;.
ty, and refpeflfully informs his friends and the pubs "ot
liegenerally, that, in consequence of the requsfl ,J mD
of some «f his friends, he has openad a Mafifal < -C
School at hit house inipruce Stceet No 174, where 1? r
he will teach oh the Piano forts, Violin sic. &c. , a
He deems it unneceflary to enlarg. upon ad
-vantages the learner will derive from an inititutl j
on of this kind; he will only fay, that attention '
afld iliM f>re ninch excited m an affombly, wtiqe p
are in putfttit of the fit}u= qbyiit. His
arrangement is such, that an itrtcrference of the f,
the different feyes.will be avojded. .Thofc Ladies - ®
and Gentlemen who cannot make it convenient to,
attend at his school, Ue will wait upon at their :
.houfes.—^—-Applications will be thanlifiilly receiv
ed at his.houfc, where his terms and further parti
culars may be known. , . n.ove
Dec- 7- . *>'weod ~—"
AlphaKetjcftl Lilt cf Duties, Ic
Pajjajile oi) ;U) Goods, Wjijct, and Mer
ch.i'.Hiize, imp,«7}d into the ljrit*(j States—latcll
edition, to te lold by JOHN OB.MROD, n.o. ~j, '
OhcftUitO-rref. Dec t6-H TTTI
S T O L K N -^ b
Otit of the fubferiber's oflcc a large blue coMtVgi,
clotJjc/oal,half worn. The ipfideol-the &>!(«• T~r;~
is faced partly with scarlet velvet and partly v . ■
with scarlet cloth, and it has q filvcr liook nt 9Q \
aad chain as a fattening. A suitable reward House a
will be paid for rdWing it. and tig'
WILLIAM MEREDITH r . ertot .
No. ij 1 South 3d Street. ' ny i ;
Dec. 16". d 1 w Dc.r
Dec. 16,
a. A House i n Burlington for Sale.
rszim, * "A
1 fcri o' h £l ,r, * \ . 4 ° Stables, Carriage
of H i W M ;m P rnv « l Garden, in tbeCav
ucr. c .f" T l ,> ' which he wifte, ta
*" * firm J""" ,CrmS
—_ "wet, 10 O.''o;tGK W.YLZIUi,
ailal. //#• has also for Salt,
havtS' Lots in Wafinngton Cxtp,
op" h^w eUOUStO lsleCal>iloi and »*
k,A.j.i. December it. „
i; '•' A E RA~.n 'if//>." ~
; ettfu* IBTl 8T a Cd c X" tr ° f "Py l! 'f Cterfc, at a pubhs
, e q n UM term,—.
tUt! Gazetted part ' Cuh " f*« ire « the office of t
dm J
—— „ FOR Grill?, ~ —'
001- B y JOHN MILLER, jvn. & Co.
One lu, tared and eighty baft*
$£ BENGAL GOODS,
oyrth Amct, 4 a Which are,
311 Ourrs!-.*- Mamoodies
***** 1 * gp*
S*** '*4* ' Tand* ColTaes
y. s , BJnertic,-
;h j B*ue CVhs Calicoes
T A £Siß?*' ; Komi " Handle,chlefe
December i.
!& WfSrlbßt ■ "~
Eist.or.h.
bnL iu f C ' tQr£c l,w '"' Jrc to
war - hefjc &7r nu i , r^ atfefted ' ° n <*
x- ~ 4 . dayof (January next tnfuinir.
11..U4 „ j ai „ ,7^2®""
.;£** ««"»• "wtowj
tfc ; JUS fRECEIVED,
jing (vii K'cvi -York)
»la- AND NOV OPENING, BY
ry. GEORGE DOBSQN,
1S» f»uth -Third ftrtet,
th 1 «tenavo and general aflbrtment of
haberdashery, viz.
n- SttsXF* S;^
'• Nuo= Th p , Ntc f <:s ho l lcria '. Md
Nu«s Thread no. 6to Thread Tapis
40, regularly assorted White Edgings
4 ?' » 0 - *3° W Soo, BUk ind coloilrad Chi
• «tfeßn>l»nds
a ° Black fewiWfi lt Sattin and figured do.
for ".t'wmg S.lks Black Velvet? i-j to isd
on Coloured do. and Twitt- V d»et ft Sa«4
11 FrcnchCambrick
w Scotch do.
ss?£«sss~ . p t«s:' " d *"* •
r t'ueßt of Gsods, fukal,l«
to the present and approaching f«af on> at r«duced
!»- Dec. 6. itt
:M ths partwbrihTP~of
2 T , , lc J hard James Potter,
I a i' ed, u ky mun " al C(,nf iEt- AH
Pcrfc " i ; <lelt ' d to the faid,fir.„, are rcquttlad
- to pay the fenu-to cither of the fubferibers; and
lu^d?7' n f J" 5 ' dcn " llds them, arc
•, s requeued to fend their accounts Am settlement.
» Richard, Potter,
V n „„ m , J*™* Potter.
rr. lumber 9,
cr i'he Subscriber intends to make
I '?^" R Mo *;' l<, t r Certificate of, Shar,
% ■
3 SS2iS&,. G * AHa C,:.
KWSS y SIMSON, ~
have f6r sale,
A few bales Coflas, and
a .qnantiy of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUOAR, in bag. and boxes'
Jamaica,
St. Vinicnf., C rum.
and Bengal j
calks RICE, * lid
-V parcel of ftip building itED CEDAR
Cfl- *7- £
Chocoiate^J~M^d,
' ,^:V f r/ eri 7 manu fa<slured,
Ct I« t' t «RP er . gwund ; ihelled or
Vjr pearl Bjtl S y ■ I'lnladeJphja Porter, Beer,
Ale and Cyder ; and Burton Ale ;
London Por:er ; red. Port and LUhon Wins,
tu.taMe f. r exp.'runon or home c oß furr.ptio E A
i jJ ' g I?SfVtn for MpOard-Seed.
Al/O forjfllc, A qi,a„o,ty of Jacking and
a Variety o£ colors j a bale of
Fuitiani, Shawls, &c, for falehy
JOHN HA WORTH,
No. pB, south Fhoat-ftreet.
Hev ' na &th.t.i F.
Imported (via New York) on the
ftip Hero from Cijcotta, and for
sale by tW fnbfepbcr, at No. 61, Chefniit street
between Second and Third Streets, the follow-'
log articles .
t Mafcragpngt. Charconna Daren* .
C«Wtz aod Cahcoes Dacca, worked muflini
Qj Us fiandannoes.
Nillas & Penfiafoes Chafla Romals
. Blue cloth. Hair ribbon
MuilMulihankerchiefs Palempores
f"*!? 1 n ' i J °' Banfres Opium
Leuer Cardinium Secd^.
Samuel Wikox.
, nov.enilier t 7 t , ithMW
To Gentlemen wha intend fpendin?
the Winter in the City.
ROOMS to LET,
W IT rV r .u V,th v' , " olrd ~ at No- 114, corner
• V.V. of Jixth and Race Streets. The fltuation
vicaaty has been free from the late
■ c "" t,! g |o "- Oct. ,] t f
By virtue of an drdar of the Orphan'. C6urt.
will be ejrpofed to Sale, on the j6th current
at 9 o clock, a. « at the premise, a small frame
Houle and Lot, iitu«.rtd on the corner of Spruc«
and Eighth greets fafcjt ft to an annual c ro un d
rent of fifteen poa.-.is, Jate the prcpcrty of
thory Leheck, ar»ea(cd.
MAKGAR2 -' I.EBECIC,
D3&rcfcct \k. J ,
9*
tK&ma 111.
' '* 11 4 • - -NEW THIiATLiF.»
• THIS EVENING,
DECEMBER 26, \VJ
WW be I'rrfm'eJ, a Comedy. rnll'J, ___
THE CHILD OF NATURE. Qr
End of th* play, the Payee of Dumot and
Kathlf*n_
' To which will he added,
THE CASTLE OF ANDALUSIA, ful
Compressed into anaftei -r>iece. Ba
gjT The doors of theThsatre wiil cpen a"t five, j
aMfhe rife rr»rif'!y iVr n'ol-rlt.
Select Subscription Balls. i a t
NEW ASSEMBLY ROOM, ek
Fourth (Vrect, between Cbefnut and Walnut ce<
. * is firtet». , x
MR. FRANCIS refpeafuUj informs the fubferi
b«rs tO tfw abovßfttls, that the firft Vvill be ' 4
ort 'T«p£rUy v th£ ad of JaiSiary, 179S
A ie.w names to the Subfcription l?alls fui
Wilf b® admitted, by application to Mr. Francis, 11b. t 0
yes north Eighth Rrect. J e
Tfcrms of Aibfcription—each fubferibet t3 pay
Five Dollars, which entitles him to a Gent'em an* 5 ccr<
Ticket, and cards of admiHion for two LaHie#, to cen
tach of the four Balls—The Balls to be htld «very tri
bther Tuesday. ty
The number of fubferibers to be limited to forty.
SuMcribers' Tickets will be ready for delivery .
wn Saturriythe 30th inft. S h
Mr. Francis's days of teaching for P
pnpils ?re Tknrtdays and Satuidays from 3 o'clock his
"iii the alternoon till 6, and from 6 till 9 for those
ot a more advanced age. Private tuition either at
the AlTcnibly Room, or at his Hcufc No. 70
Korlh Eight Street.
N.B. Dae notice will be given of Mr. Ftarcis's inj
second Ball. !c<
Dec. 16. dtldj an
Office of the Infarance Company f«
OF THE STATE OF PBNNiYLVANIA- A
an
IN conftquence of an application from a number of
of Proprietors ef Stock, made agreeably to the Q t
ait r.4 ineorporatiofi, a pjerteral meeting of the
StockhollcTS is particularly requeued on Wcdutf- .
4ay, the 3d January next, at II o'clock, at the 2
OiTice of the Ccmpary S !
SAM. W. FISHER, Sec'ry.
December v dt3dj
Hyson and Youngv Hyson Tea. J l '
A few chctt" of excellent quality, Fpr Sale, tor- ( *
ner ef Second and Pin« ftreetv
H December 16 eotf er
PrifoTi' Mannfaftory. f a '
FOR SAI.Z,
A#thePrlfon o£ the City and County of PhiladeU
phia,
Cut Nails of all sizes, from 3dy to ao«ly 1'
Flooring Brad*, Sprigj*, saddle and card Tacks bi
and chipped Logwood In
Shoemakfcij and Sailers Threa;l e ]
Alfo—Sav/ed Marble, fuitible for currier's tablet,
tomb and heai\ Bones, hearths, chimney pieces, a
; latforms, slabs, laeia, window heaJ«, fills, c . JU
All which may he had on rcafonahle terms. ti
Shies and Wea»ing done at said Prison at p
a satx'.n ate price. , j e
Orders from a di'ance, direSed to Daniel Tho- j
nia', agent for the prison, will teattended to.
Pecmber *6' mth6m
v" TITO ~T I
At Alderman Bedford's office, Ijimbardftreet, q
No. 88, about three weeks ajjo, a whole piece
of ttrtton, fnppolid to be stolen—any person a
having fofl th* lame, Rrovifig propertj- and pay 0
ing charges may have it again. o
N December IA. *eo*t, t'
' "TO tET,
A Front Room, fnitable for an !l
OEte or Counting house, with a large Cellar. 1
Any person who may rpnt the above, may (if re- e
quired) be accommodated with Board and Lodg- t
ing in the fame house. Enquire 'atjia* 480, South c
Front, near Pine street. r
December 1 3» W 3 W
Uriah Smith,
No. ao, north Third ftreet—bas tor s,\lc v f
A neat and general affottment ps (1
BtoadCloths,Kerfeyineres,Napt »
and Drab Coatings. al«o, t
Avmrietyof Oentlemens' falhionabfe fancy Waill- c
coating, silk Hosiery, &c. t
December 5. " 'eodaw
Samuel Pleafants & Sons, c
No. 74, South Second-flreel, A
HAVE received a supply of SeafonabU GOODS, |
which they ar« now opening for sale, on
rcafonahle terms. OS 17. —4 W
' a
COLUMBIA HOUSE J
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBRIDGE with muc-h t>!eaft
ureand rtfpefl, returns her sincere ac- I
knowledgemrnt for the liberal encouragement a
{he has received during .four years refidente i* t
Philadelphia ; and a!TAe» her friends and the v
pubiif, so far from intending to. disclipe.brr (
■ '-hool, the has made a I'upertor arrangement fcr /
:he more convenient accommodation of her
scholars.—Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended to by MVs ~J
Grdombridge and matters excelling in their '
refpeilive profeflions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets. t
- , tmfrf 1
The fituati«n is perfectly healthy ; aWdmade
..more agreeable by in extenfiye garden and lot
of ground adjoining the houle.
Yellow Fever and Pestilential |
Diseases. i
THfS DAY 19 PUBLISHED, in one vol. oflavo. 1
By WiIHAM.VounO, Boolfeller,
Vo. i», Secondftreet, the corner of Chefnut street,
(Price,in boiirdi ,t X Cents J
Neatly printed on fine American, wove medium
Paper,
A VIEW
Of the Science of Life ;
On the principles eflabliftied in th» tltments
of Meditine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BROWN, M.D."
With an attempt to correal funic important er
rors $f that wo. k, arid cafe»-io illustration, chiet
ly from the records of their pwllice, at *
the Gen«r?l Hospital at Calcrttta, v
Br WiiLi/tt Yates & Cn.is. Maclean. '
To which is subjoined, a Treatise on the action
of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica
tion for the cure of diftafes of indireil debility.
Andatliflertation ontUe sources of Epidrmicand,
Peftiicntialdifwfes; in whichisattemptedtoprove
ty a numerous indu*£lion of fa£ls, that they ne
ver arise from contagion, but are always produ
ced by certain states, or certain vicifiittidas of
the atniofpl'.cie, by Chari-HS MaCLIAN, of
Caltutta-.
Nov. it.
PHILADELPHIA,
WEDNESDAY EVENING, DECEMBER a?.
Character or th• lateGov. WOLCOT'T.
MR. FENJJp, W
Please to insert thdfolfowinjj in your use- t(
ful paper. It is an extraft of the Rev. Mr- f c
Backus'* fei-jno?> preached on the jd inft. at
Litchfield,, in Connsfticut, at the funeral of j B ,
that diftingvtiihed patriot and statesman, the t (
late GOVERNOR WOLCOTT- , ti
After giving the chara&pr of King Hee- n
ekhh in an elegant stile, the preacher pro- ' c <
ce-eds— 'g
" How far any of these traits in the cha
rafter of good Hezekfah corresponded with
the'charafter of that venerable man whose ti
funeral obfequiej \Ve have this Jay aflembled y
to perform, the impartial public will now b
decide; sensible that the ei/logy which tx- n
ceeds general sentiment is not eulogy' but u
censure. I had rsfther fill (hoVt of a man's u
true meriti on foch an occasion thart be guil- ti
ty of fulfome panegyric. z,
Should it be said that oiir late dhirf ma- di
giftrate defcrves an application in many res- ti
pests of the charatter doW contemplated*, t£
his enemies cannot fay it favors of iervile c ,
adulation ; it is a charafter of which
are unambitious, a charafter disgusting to ni
the taste of the age, not formed on the ruV- fc
ing principles of this world. A Jereboam a i
leading away a nation from ancient habits n;
and religious inftiti{tions, or a Jehv driving a i
furioufly, is more adapted to modern taste. vi
An Arifirides, a Numa Pompiliui, an Alfred h
and a Ma'nco Capac are forgotten {n the noise n
of a Pericles, a Sylla, a Mar'rns, Cataline or C
Cefar of later (Jays. But it is ltill a truth, h
that it ii more glorious to moralize and d
happify, than to render terrible afidto ag- ti
grahdize, a people. t!
By his death the slate is called to mourn fc
one of the real'friends df and t
purity of her ancient conftitutio*s. In the t
language of the prophet we may fay, that q
" one of the ffrong rods is broken and with- »
ered." from ancestors diftin- c!
guiftied among the firft settlers of New-Eug- j
Wolcott was a real, not a theo- t
relic republican. He referenced and era- I
braced the religion of his country. i
He was educated at Yale-C6ncs?> and ;
qualified himfelf for the profeflion of e
but being appointed (heriff of this county, <
Vie held that office J 4 years, when lie ivas <
elefted a member of- the couucil, and made i
a chief justice ofthecommon pleas, and judge I
<lf probates. In 1786 he was appointed j
lieutenant governor, and in May 1796, was (
promoted to the chief magistracy. He fil
led all his offices With uncommon dignity,. 1
■ During the struggle of the American revo- 1
lution that tfied men's fouls hf was the calm •
unlhaken friend of his country's catife. He
wa3 a member of that ever memorable 1
Congrefa which declared our independence ;
and in the. course of' the \rar repeatedly
marched at the head of large detachments
of the militia, as a general officer t® repel
the invasions of the enemy.
In .the discharge of these several offices,
integrity and firmnefs were the leading fea
tures of his charafter.' He was an eminent
exemplification of .the virtenax propofiti* of
the bard of Venufia. Although'he poflefi"-
ed a strong mind, capable of deep and tho
rough investigation, his abilities were not of
that brilliant cast which have often ruined
men in popular governments. He always
seemed more desirous to do his duty than to
shine, to be ufeful than to dazxle. His nat
ural modeily, and, what is more, his un
blcmifhed integrity, led him to horrid con
ceptions of the arts of political demagogy,
the fin that so easily besets men in free go
vernments. He never Jlpoped to cayrl the
Suffrage of any man ; he blushed at the thp't
of being the man »f the people in the modern
finfe ; and to the honour of the ftatc it may
• be said, the suggestions of malice have nf v
er ihaken their confidence in his integrity
and patrifctifm. By his death the true in
terests of feience have loft a strenuous de
fender ; virtue, religion, and good men a
sincere friend. He reverenced , and loved
public worlhip tnd divine ordinances ; was
t a tried, but not an ostentatious friend of
i the gospel ministry., He sensibly felt eve
s ry attempt to depart from the purity of
chriftiart practice and morals ; he set his fket
' lite a flint againfl all the fpeeious fophijlry of
r new political theories, and the madness if infidel
fanaticrfm. Rather than flatter of licence
r the vices of a community, like a popular
sycophant, he was willing to put his con
tinuance in office at hazard, and his reputa
tion in jeopardy, that he might discharge a
c good confeience,
c For several days before bis death the shat
tered remains of a once noble mind and vig
-1 gorous body were devoted continually, to
God ; his yery breath appeared to be pray
er. With all the splendor of Kis station and
of his well earn'd fame, he was not ashamed
>• to pray in the expressive language of the
publican " God be merciful to me a linner;"
'• until after many painful struggles he fell a
n flef P-
O death ! in what a mortifying light doth
thy power put the little, little glory of this
diminutive world. To what infignificahce
do human honors dwindle before the gran
deur cf Eternity !
Notwithstanding the death of such a cha
r rafter is a grievous loss, especially under
f. the present afpeft of divine providence, and
L t the perilous fituatiou of this country.
j Such tried charafters are " the fait ps the
K earth," the pillars of our national existence.
The presence, firmnefs, councils, prayers
and examples of such fathers should be ef
p, teemed " the chariots of our Israel and the
i, horfenen thereof."
re \ * A man tenacious of his purpose.
e-1
11 " Mr. Backus's text for the sermon lie preach
ed at the funeral of Gov. Wolcott.
2d Chronicles, 33d chap, and 33d verse.
And He%eliah ftrpf with his fathers, and
f tin i.irird fjim w the chieffl ofthefepukhres
of the fins of David : and all jfudab and Je
rufulem did him zt his death- ne
ar
For the Gazette of the Upited States. pi
fr
" When Juflice calls, 'tis cruelty to fai'e." tl
The lefpitp oftbe execution of O'Hara, re
which i 3 probably intended as the prelude el
to his pardon, has excited the surprise, and h
, for myfelf lam not ashamed to fay, the in- le
dignaiion, of many citizens at good, as virtu- tl
i ous and a? humane, as those who have exer- a
. ted themselves to defeat the laws and jus
tice .of their country.—To life the fenti- b
ments and I b.clieve the expressions of the w
court at t-»ie trial of O'Hara, he has been tl
guilty of, a most wanton and unprovoled o
murdfcr ; and 'twere is riot a onuhtry on b
g«vkrned by latvs, where he would S
t)6f fnffetvthe punishment of death. And
ytt, in this country of rtforrnation, he is to tl
be turned again into society, washed by the ri
| magic operation as a pardon, at pure and y
unspotted in the eye of the law, as any of b
us, »nd entitled to as many privileges and an p
equal tank with the most meritorious citi- 6
ztn in the community—This too is to be
done, without a pretension that his convic- b
tion or sentence has been improper or mis- v
taken ; without a suggestion thait any oir- n
cumftances of palliation attended his offence o
or any discoveries in his favor have been f'
made since his trial. I« this juAice, either t
by human or divine law ? Is it prudence i>
and policy ? Is it even benevoltnce or hu- r
manily ? I* it not rather mitdhefs, folly,
I and Cruelty to those who may be the future g
vitrims of the diabolical revenge of this vil- I
laiu ? For a mind more bent upon mifchief, J
[ more maliciously wicked and depraved than I
O'Hara's difcovtred itfelf in this business, t
has ferdom been exhibited—ls not fhis par- g
I don particularly dangerous and improper at t
I this 'time, when a man can scarcely walk
| the flreets without having a pistol placed at t
J his head, awd hi? pockets rifled ? What is i
I the lesson held outi in broad characters, to *i
I tbeffcruflrihs ? Simply this—lf yon rob and «
I detedted, it is an heinous crime, sad you t
I will be .fewrely puaifhed : bat if you arc 1
j daring and wife enough to murder the man t
1 you have robbed, you not only quiet a ma- <
terial witnefe, tut if you should be detedted
jby any other means, you will escape with <
I impunity, by the food natvred infatuation of 1
la certain class of our citizens—Don't Ileal 1
I a (hilling or the vengeance of the law will
I overwhelm you, but add murder to the
I crime JUid you* escape is certain. We have,
in the abfurtl spirit of reformation, that now
seems to prevail, so inverted the order of
jfdicc and nature, tlv<t murder is the only
offence for which there is-oo punishment in
I Pcnnfylv»nia. I attended the trial of
O'Hara, and am acquainted with aIL the
evidence and circumstances of his cafe, and
will ventare to assert if he is an ehjedt de
fending of the executive interference, if the
course «f juflice and the law is to be arrett
ed for his), no cafe can poflibly happen or
be fupfofed in which the {punjfhment af
i signed bj law for murder should be inflidtcd
1 and confcqilently the law itfelf is' worthy of
I derision and contempt, and wijl soon meet
j -with it from rogues as well as from honed
■ | men-—Let the governor remember, that it
: is duty to adouiiifter the lawijnftly, im-
F partially, and firmly—That he should not
• fuffcr himfelf to be driven from that duty by
■ clamor and importunity, however improper
f and indelicate, nor expose every citizen of
I the commonwealth to the unchecked out
i rages as a njurderer to gratify enthusiastic
> and theoretical opinions in diredl contempt
- and oppolition to that law and government
■ he is sworn to,fupport. He has too long
- held the ihition he now occupies to be un
, | acquainted with *he facility with which pe
titioners may be procured for the molt
c fhameful and improper requests. He well
c knows that if every convidt is to be pardon
i ed for whom petitioners, and- refpcdtable
t ones too, may be had, the penal c»de may
- as well be destroyed at once, and ourcrimi
' nal courts be closed forever—Some men
- have an unaccountablefoudnefa for this kind
- of officiout interference, and are gratified
i with having their names handed about as
1 friendly to the unfortunate. The confe
s quences of such lenity they never consider,
f and fed no kitid of responsibility for them.
-In short, they consider it-as a matter of
f course to sign every paper that is handed to
/ them under the name of a petition—All the
f\ mifchief that may result from the compli
•/ ance with the petit ion, falls on the govern
e or ; all the credit is afliimed to themfelvcs.
r It is time the exercise of this pardoning
i- I power was,, a little enquired into ; and I
i- doubt nqt the refnlt would be, a convidtion
a that it is improperly placed in a Angle man,
without any reftridtion or modification ; for
:- it can scarcely be expedted that any one
;-1 man can resist the kind of arguments and in
o fliiencc that are generally used <jn these oc.
ca,fi«ns —Where penal laws are mild, they
d should b* certain. .
d Beccaria.
Ie ■■
For the Gazette of the United States.
AS there are few political duties more
b important than those of ele&ions, and as it
is-1 is effentia] to the purity of o«r eledtions,
:e j that none but natives qualified agreeably to
n- the, Gonftitution of Pennsylvania, or aliens
qualified according to the laws of the TJni
a- ted and the conflitution and laws of
er I Pennsylvania, fhoiild exercise the rights of
id an eledlion at our cleft ion, it may not be
y. I deemed improper, at a time when our Le
ie i giflature are about to pass a law on the fub
e. jest, to bring into public view the different
rs modes of naturalization, and the otherqua
•f- lifications necessary to entitle a person to
he vote—lt may at lead serve to aid an inves
tigation of the fubjedl ; for which purpofc
it will be necessary to divide the inhabitants
of this state into three claffes^—to wit :
h- I i ft. Natives.
2d. Emigrants, citizens of some other
| of the United States or North Weltern
id j Territory—and
• jd. Emigrants from Foreign Stale.'.
It may be proper here to premise as a ge- ,c
neral rule equally applicable to all, that there
are are five things essential to entitle any -
person to vote—anele&ormuft be—ift. a
freeman'—2d. of the age of 21 years or
Upwards—3d. a citizen—4th. he must have ■ K
resided in the state i years next before the
eledlion—and sth, he must within that time
have paid a ltate or county tax, assessed at
least 6 month® before the election—-from
this view of the fu'ojeft it appears so ftirid j
as follow : a
I. A native to be entitled to vote, must
be a freerfmn of the age of 21 yuars or up- Q
wards—have resided 2 years next preceding £ (
the eledlion vt'ithin the state, and paid a state
or couqty tax a ficficd, at least, 6 months c
- before his exercifmg the rights of- an elector.
See Con. Penn. Art. 3. Sec. f. f
11. Emigrants, citizens of any other of
the United States, or North Western Ter- 0
ritory, must be freemen ofj the age of 21 t
years or upwards—have resided 2 years next
before the eledlion within the state, and have
paid a state or county tax, 'assessed, at least, t
6 months before the eledlion—and
111. Emigrauts from foreign slates must
be freemen of the age of 21 years or up-;
wards—have resided within the state 2 year?
next before the eledlion—and paid a state j
or county tax assessed, at least 6 months be- | a
fore the eledlion—And flill they are not en- j a
titled to vote unless they have besn natural- j t
ized according to rtme one of the following •
regulations:
1 ft. They must have been naturalized a- J y
greeably to the conflitution and laws of I (
Peilnfylvania, existing between the 28th j
Sept. 1776 and 26th March 1790 —Whicn i (
provisions required 1 years residence within j (
the state, and an oath or affirmation of alle- j
giance to the fame—See 42d fee. of thte
then frame of government —or
2d. They must be naturalized agreeably |
to an adlpf Cougrefs of the 26th March j
1790, which declares—That any "Xljen be (
'ing a free whits person who shall have r?fid
ed within the limits and under the jtfrifdie
tion of the United State 3 fbr the term of 2 ,
years, may be admitted to become a citizen
thereof on application to any common law
court of record, in any one of (he ftatfs
wherein he ftydl have resided for the term of
one year at least, and making proof to the
fatist'adlion of such court that he is a person
of good charadlfr, and. taking the oath or
affirmation prefentd by law to support the
conflitution of the United States —or
3d. They must be naturalized according
to an adt of Congress of the 2yth January
1795— Which declares that any alien being
a free white person, may be admitted to be
come a citizea of the United States, or any
of them, on the following conditions and
not otherwise :
First—He (hall have declared on oath or
affirmation, before the supreme, superior,
diltrict or circuit court of some one of the
ftateo, or of the- territories north-weft or
south of the river Ohio> ar a circuit or dif
. tridl court of the United States, three years,
at least, before his aditiiffion, that it was,
' bona fide, his intention to become a citizen
of the United>States, and to renounce for
ever all allegiance and fidelity to any fo
reign prince, potentate, state or fovtreigrity
whatever, and particularly, by name, the
; prince, potentate, state or sovereignty
• whereof fuih alien may, at the time, be a qi
- tizen or fubjcdl.
f Secondly—He shall, at the time of his
application to be admitted, declare on oath
; or affirmation, before some one of the courts
t aforefaid, that he has refuUd within the U
t nited States, 5 years at least, and within the
r state or territory, where such court is at the
1 time held, one year at,leaft ; that he will
. support the conflitution of the United
[ States ; and that he doth absolutely and
I entirely renounce and abjure all allegiance
. and fidelity to every foreign prince, poten
» tate, state or sovereignty whatever, and par
r ticularly by name, the prince, potentate,
. state or sovereignty whereof he was before
! a citizen ot fubjedl.
1 Thirdly—The court admitting such alien
J shall be fatisfied that he is entitled to the be
-3 fit of this adt.
Fourthly—lneafethe ilien, applying to le
admitted to citiaenfliip, ftiall have borne any he
' reditary title, or been ot" any of the ord.-rs <.f
* nobility, in the kingdom or lUtc from which he
' came, he shall, in addition to the above nqui-
J flies, make an expreft renunciation of hii title ot
e exder of nobiiity, in the Court to which his ap
. plication (hall be made ; all of which proceeding
lhall be recorded in the iaid Court.—-This law
alio declares " that aliens within the,
" limits and under the jur iCdifllon of the United |
? States, at the tnne of its passing, may be adinit-
I ted to become citizens,Cm their declaring on calh
n or affirmation, in fonre one of the Courts afore
, laid, that they have resided two years at least,
ir within and under the jurifdiilion of the fame,
e and one year, at least, within the slate or terri
tory where such Court is at thej time held ; that
they will support th» Conflilution of the United
States, and t'nat they doth absolutely and entire
y ly renounce and abjure all lllfghtice and fidelity
to any foreign prince, potentate, fla:e or ftfv
ereiguty, whereof they were before citizens or
fubjeils— shall also renounce any title of
nubility which tliev may have held—all of which
proceedings (hall be rscorded in the said Court ,
It is alio provided in each of these laws, That
c the children of persons d.tly naturalizci!, dwel
it ling within the Uuited S'a es, being uritkr the
s, age of 21 years, at the time of such natnralizj
-0 tion, lhall also be considered as citizens of the
1S United States—And the chi'dren of citiz na of
the United States, that may be born out of the
' limits 0." the United Stales, shall be conC Jered
asnaiurjl born citizens—providid that the light
J f of c'ltilenfhip (half not defsend to persons whole
re fathers haVc never been reSdent within the Unit
e. Ed States: Afid provided also, that no person
[j. heretofore proi'cribrd by any state, shall be ad
]t mitted a citizen as atorcfai l, except by an ail of
the Legifiature in which fu h person waj prof
-3" cribed.
t0 It will be ohfjpved, that the operation of the
f- law6f Congress of the 16th March, 1790, is rc"
fe pealed by the law of 25th January, 1791, except
t s mit relates to aliens then resident within the
United States. From this ftatemeut of the fub
je£l, it appfars, that if an emigrant from any fo
reign state hath been naturalized agreeably to
cr afly one 6f the foregoing rules, he Kind* upon
rn the faple fcotitig as a native, and is eniit'ed to
vde, en' having resided two years witiii i tiie
flat?, *iu! paid'a state ortSmittyrMr* aSe.T:v. «
least fix month; fitforf t,he cle <3i«o
A 'l^.\':«YLV-VTCIAW.
iiwmii ■ pn » i—Mwerxy' '*«WU»ar3
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
• ■ •¥ - ■
TUESDAY', DECEMBER 26.
Mr. Livingfton, agreeably to nqtice, mov
ed that a committee be appointed to bring
, in a bill in addition to the a& for the relief
andproteftionof American seamen—agreed,
Mr. Gnfvydld aflced and obtained leave
of atfence, for his colleague, Mr. Edmond,
for 20 days.
Mr. Ivktera obtained- leave also for his
colleague, Mr. Gallatin for 6 days.
Mr. Sitgreaves obtained leave of absence
for 10 days. \
Mr. Dwight Foster, from the committee *
of claims to whom was referred the bill from
the Senate for the relief of Win. Imlay,
made a report: recommending the bill to be
palfed, which was twice read and commit
ted /or Thursday.
Mi. Harper called for the order of the
day on the bill prefcrila'ng the mode of tafc
' ing evidence in cases of contested eleftions, "
; which motion being acceded to, the houfer
j resolved itfelf into a committee of the whole,
j accordingly, Mr. Kitlera in the chair, and
I after difcufiing ihe fubjedl far some tim #
| the committee rofc and had leave to fit a
jgain. _
I Mr. Sewall from the committee to whom
was referred that part of the Presidents'
| speech which related to the prote&ion of
' commerce and the defence of onr country,
made a report in part. -The committee ftat
•■d it as their opinion that legifiatiye prqvi
fion ought to be made in order to diftin- *
gtiilh between cases in which it was lawful
for merchants to arm, and in which it woulcf
bs.unlawful. They therefore report a bill,
ili which it is made the duty of masters or
owners of veflels to report their intention of
v arming their veflels, and his duty to inlpect
them to fee that they are not improperly
require bonds for those arms
being propetjjr used.
The bill was"(Sji motion read a second
. time, and ordered be committed to a
committee of the whole. On the fpcaker's
making the tffual enquiry, " for what day
fliall it be made the order ?"
Mr. Sewall anfwercd Mondny next.
Mr. Nicholas the firft Monday in Februa
ry. :
According to the rules of the house, the
question W33 taken on the raoft distant day,
> and carried 40 to 37.
Mr. Shepard rose, soon after the quiftion
was nvided, <vid said he had been mistaken
in his rote; that he understood the day of
order to hare been the firft Monday in Jan
r nary. He moved, therefore, for a re-con
' fideration of the question.
The motion wjis seconded (which is ne
r ceflary) by a member, who voted in the af
firmative of the queftioo. In consequence
' of this hiotion a vyry warm debate, ofcon
' fidefable length rook place, which is defer
-1 red till to morrow. It was supported by
MefTrs. Pinckuey, Otis, Rutlcdgc, Brookes,
Isaac Parket, Hartley, Sewall, Dana,
f Thatcher, J. Williams and Allen. It was
: oppoftd by Me firs. M'Duwtll,
f Nicholas, Baldwin, N. Smith, S. Smith,'
At length, tile question for re-confi deration
was taken, and negatived 44 tb yB.
Adjourned.
8 PENNSTL VJIN I A LEGISLATURE,
' House of RspRESEn-rVri ves
e
December 2;. ,
Wi'.lism Sterfett from Mifflin county t>p-
per.ri.il, Was qualified and took hi« feat
e Several petitions were preifnted and read.
Th« committee on the petition of Frederick
LefbtT, praying leave t.o ercil a dam across
Bald Eayle creek, asked and obtained leave to
' report a bill conformably to the petition.
The committee sppointerf to enquire into and
make a {Utement or fa&s relative to David A
n hefon, a member from Walhingtcu county,
made report. - f
Die bill to make vompenfation to certain
e members of the late
cond time and agreed to.
■ ( Tiie House, agreeably to the order of the
.. day, resolved itfelf into a committee of the
|. whole, on the bill declaring certain roads with
,r imtbis Commonwealth, to ronds, when,
after some time spent, the Committee rofe r r;>
>■ (.orted pragrefs, and alked leave to lit again,
w which was granted for Wtdsefday next.
Adjourned.
,] 1 December 23.
t- A petition from a number of the citizens of
h Germantown and i?s vicinity,' praying th 4 Go
vernor may be autiiorifed to incorporate a eom
-1 pany to make an anitcul rrtad scum the city to
c> the twelve mile stone, eri the lieading road or
j. to Reading, was prvfented, .t ad arid referred to
it MefTrs. LeibjAV• M'Clay, Gartner, Hellew'arul
:t ) Sterretf.
c . "I he Ccir.ittee on unfutilhed b\i(incfs made
■ y further report' in part.
The Committee on the petition of fpme of tht
sr citizens of Mifflin county, prayii ' the appoint-,
nl mora pfaTruflee for tlie ceunty, made a reporij
; h m fav-our of the petit'ufiicfs.
t Tht bill to the members of tho
late L-gil]ai»i« w!iv. were' prevented from re-,
ceivirig t'acir dues by the abrupt riiir.j: • £ti:e
le LegiC.ture, W49 reail a third tinu and pa3c^-
A petition from I'rancis Job'<Uyn, liece ver-,
ie General of tlie lar.d office, fating ih|« he bad
of been obliged to d ltju;fe his own monies fur IVitt
, c enjplnyn • r:t of cfeiKs 2i the allowance m3,uo
.(1 by tke llate wis inco!i.pe - cnt, and praying that
hr i'ii«b monies may be - rein "Jed lp him, aod t>iat
| e an additional al'uv-'afce. mjy J>« himJc lor the
it- employment of a numlicr of clerks to
m • tranfii) tb.s public bufmeis, wai prel'cnted, read
(J. ' and referred.
;) f 'I he report of the committee o;i the petition
if. of a committee'of the Direjlori or the bank
of Fennlylvai.i l, was called up for a ltcAnd read
he ing, an l thfc llotife agreed thst they fliould have
• c » leave to bring in a bill agreeably to. the prayero.
pt thi ir petiiicm.
u *»>!• H'-oIV artioiiried; ; l! Wedtiefday.
Ail lining Duties on Stamped Vcthau
to Parch 4 at and. Paper.
an A PBNV copiec of tfce abovi aA u.asy he had ; 1
•o he Cljics of thcGuzettVoi tlie Vnited States No
iie i'j, v hcfiiKt ilrrct. ' jti-y t-j.Continuation of Late Foreign Nc<u v,
(ay thff £uu, arrived at {J»w-York, froui 3our
i deuix)
Aiviccs from Rome state that the Brother of
Buonaparte has been received herewith uncorrmon
refpeft and fp'endor. The seven Apostolic anti
chambers were filled with guards and noblelTe to
do honor to the representative of the French na
tion. The papal miniftsr, when he received him,
had in his hand a book, containing a ratification
of the trti>f of peace of Tolentino. The rope
received hint with great good will—he is lodged
at the palace Salviati. Hl3 holiness hai presented
fix fine horfts—the secretary of State, two, and
f rince Chigi, four. He, with his wile and lifter,
are loaded with honorn.
An article from Basle mentions that tbe prince
of Conde has received the last remittance which
ha is to reeeive from England, amounting to 80,000
II or ins —Hi» army h as-proceeded to Russia.
The French minister of the interior has notified
the national institute that the transported deputies
are no longer French citizens—therefore the plac
es of Carnot, Paftoret, Sicard and Fontaines are
vacant, and are to be supplied by new appoint
ments.
Gen. Moreau i« at Paris—out of employment.
, The directory have issued out an arret pi ohibit
ing the wearing of any religious habits in the Bel
gic departmsiits.
It is officially announced in Frahce that the Con
' yrefsat I.isle if entirely at an end—The French
Commiffione'rs,Treillard and Bonnier left that city
en the 17th October with military honours.
1 A Bourdeaux paper of OA *4, mentions an epi
demic Mien prevailing among the cats in that city.
»An officer of health had opened the body of one
to find the cause, and discovered un poleton de
vers—a knot of worm!. We have not been in
formed whether any pcrfon in this country has in
vert igaled the cause of ih« malady among the cats.
The exten' of the psftilence among }hem isa curi
ous phenomenon.
From the Commercial, Political, and Littrary
Journal of Bcurdeiux—O-Stober 25.
Extratf from ths conditions iy ivhich the Exec- ■
* five Directory wdes Mhe ve/fds belonging to
tbe R.public to private adventurers.
Such frigates, sloops of war and light
vclTelsaj fha'l be deemed useless to the Re
public, fiiall be chartered to cruise for four
mouths, reckoning from the day of Their de
parture, to adventurers whose probity and
credit is well established.
Those vessels (hall be somplctely equipped •
at the expence of the republic ; the charter
er (hall only be accwcintable for the vi£tual
ing for the whole cruise, and for the advanc
es and wages to the crews.
The expense? attending, going into port,
and viftualling, (hall be defrayed by the
•charterer—those cf repairs, mails, rigging,
fails, arms, wnrlike (lores, and every thing
relative to the vcflel itfelf, &c. (hall be de
frayed by the republic
The captains and officers must be taken
„ from thole in adlual fervieo, and be chosen
with the approbation of the minister of ma
rine.
The charterer shall point out the cruise,
shall choose the destination of the prizes,
and the places at which the veflels are to
touch but with the absolute fandtion of
the minister. Tho fame to be observed with
refpeft to the inftruftions.
Tbe net procetds of the prizes (hall bf di
vided a<( follows : one third for- the crew,
and of tb's remaining two thirds the repub
lic (hall haveoee third.
Tbe laws refpefting the cojifervation, the
management, salesoost s the prize*, final fet
tlenient, and divifiop arrnrng the crew, (hall
be followed conformably t»> the . usage and
customs of privateering. 1
The falcs /hull be made under the infpefti
-011 cf the charterer, but in the prtfence'of a
• perf«n appointed by the crew, a comptroll- 1
er, or in his absence, a person apppointred I
by tbe marine, and of the consul or vice- I
consul, in neutral or friendly ports.
They (ball be fold at two months credit,
for draughts, properly endorsed by fubftan- <
tial henfea, domiceHed at the place of sale,
and accepted by a commercial house at Pa- I
tie. Should the charterer or bis agents de- I
viate from these conditions, they (hall be an- 1
fwerable for the consequences. <
There (hall be paid one sol per livre ad
ditional by the highest bidders, to defray c
the expenses of the sale, unloading and ftor- «
age, &c.
The charterer is accountable for the re- \
cftvery—He (hall be bound to produce to
ths minister of marine a legal settlement r
within a month after the bills are given in
payment, become due, to place the proporti
on belonging to the republic in the chelts of
fte invalids ; and within fifteen days after 0
to produce vouchers for the payment ofthe f
third, in the bands of tbe Crews. li
i The charterers will deduft from the third :
belonging to the crews on the proceeds of
the firft prices, the advances made them ;
they will also retain from the part of the
iirft prices belonging to tbe republic, the
amount of the disbursements and advances
made oa her account, whether in fitting out
or in touching at ports ; provided, that at (1
the tirae"of fitting out, the naval itore houf- r
es are unprovided with the articles which f
the republic-undertakes to furnifti, they are 1:
;iuthorife<T to procure them.
The charterer, shall have the privilege of t
• taking iri the itore houses of the republic,
ijproviiions which are nut in use, upon con- 1*
ditions of replacing them in kind, and the
{itme in quality and quantity withip four n
nio'.ithe.
The.charterer is allowed a commifikm of
two per cent on the gross amount of prizes,
as if customary.
The charterer to give security in fail pro- a
perty. Should the velfel be taken or wreck- a
.•J it will be the I'ifs of the republic, but c
the captain must undergo a trial. • c
If during tbe fitting out or the term of c
charter, peace fuotild take place between the r
powers at war,and the charterers not made t
whole for their advances, the vefTels See. shall c
be U their disposal for a commercial expi - 1
dition as they may think proper ; any dif- i
putes which may arise, either between the t
republic and tke charterers, or their captain 1
and the crews, (hall determined by re
ferees. &c. &c. <
N. B. The above are the principal con- J <
ditions in conformity to which several vefiels
- ,iavc been chaftcfedin different ports
' T" 1 " 6 ff a °( some <>l tiie sea-ports have
. wfertcd others which .are riot corrcd—and
which may be productive of errors such as
follow:
n n. rt ' 12 -' , Tlle . nst P ,oc eeds of the prizes
■c a 1 K " t |' vlc ' in f hree equal parts, the
s ' or republic, the second for the
- crew, the third for the fitter out.
J5- Ihe funds arising from the falei
' of the prizes, (hall bt deposited under three
1 y s » 111 cheit of the treasury of the in-
I valids, in the ports of the republic, and in a
i chest committed to the care of the consul in
, neutral ports, one of these keys'' /hall be
given to the administration of the marine,
' one to the agent of the crew, the third to
, the charterer.
Art. r<6. As soon as a fettled
I without yaiting for any fuhfequent opera
tion, the funds (hall be distributed immedi
; ately by thirds to the concerned.
A**t. 21. Ihe charterer (hall give securi
ty in fall property, &e. he muit also give
security according to thelaw refperfting bar
" ratry of the.charterer.
1 here are several other articles equally
important, and which are equally erroneous.
ROVEREDO, Sept. 19.
The French troops are in motion on all
fides. Thc3dvanced.poftshave formed their
' line on the frontiers ef the Auftriaa States.
: Mantua is ir. a formidable state—its fortifi
cations are improved it well provisioned
from the Milancfe. The chiefs of the Im
perial army are also very adtive in preparing
for defence. Couriers pass frequently be
tween General Kerpen arid Laudon, and
head quarters at Laubach.
BASLE, Sept. 24.
The 15th i»ft. arrived Mr. Crawford,
Englifti commiifary, at Uherlingen and an
nouncsd to the army of Conde, that they
were no longer in the pay of England. On
the fir ft of October they became the tolJiJrs
of Russia. A Ruffian prince is arrived, at
tended by x commifiary, Secretary antl two
officers. All former officers in .the commis
sary's department have been dismissed, arid
Ruffians have taken their places The*m
igrant6 receive from England a gratuity of
a half year's pay. This army is to march
to Ulm, thenee proceed down the Danube
to Lintz—thence pass to Limberg. The
troops are to be quartered in Volhynia and
Podolia. with the fame pay as they have
had hitherto. They are to be called tb»-
corps du Conde, and to be under the or
ders of the prince.
BERLIN, Sept. 30.
The events ofthe late revolution in France
has caused here mod lively sensations. We ;
are but jufl informed ofthe measures taken ,
to-eftablilh a new republic on the left bank ,
of the Rhine, His royal highness the dnke 1
of Brunfwick departed immediately to the ,
army of observation. in Westphalia.—Every 1
thing announces that he will take ferions ,
measures, in cafe the French are resolved to j
continue the war; he may form an alliance ,
which will enable him to oppofc this project 1
with bis main army.
GENOA, o<ft. 3. ,
General Buonaparte has written a letter <
to the minilter Faypoult, which gives great j
to the advocates of a union with ,
the Cisalpine Republic. " I think, fays he, /
that wife men (hould correct the couftitution. i
I believe that \iany articles do not well be- I
come the banks of the river of Genoa. Per
suade the government, to take no dtcifive r
step till I arrive at Genoa in pejfon."
Paris. Freron has not accepted the [-
confitlate of Cagliari.
' A letter frotn UdinaofSept.23, intimates \
that the French general had fixed a short
term, as the utmost limit for continuing the
negociations. From the Adig# to the A- y
driatic, the troops were in motion. a
General Badotivills, arrested on suspicion fl
of having secret information, has undergone n
a secret interrogatory.
It is reported from Avignon, that Ro- "
vere has been arrested.
General Cambrai is named to the com
mand at Tours.
HAGUE, O&obern. v
By the treaty with.Spain, the latter pays
our Government 836,000 piastres indemni- E
fication for the embargo on our (hipping in
her ports.
By this day's Mail. d
NEW-YO'RKTDecember 26. C p
Ye/h-rday arrived the fliip Fame, captain n
Wilfcrn, in 62 days from Havre,which place
file left 011 the 24th October, but brings
nothing new. The (hip Ariel, captain , a'
failed in company with the Fame, for Phi- c
laielphia.
Ship Cygnet, Johnson, of this port, was
to fail for New-York in two days.
Ship Lark, captain Sifibn, would fail l
ffiortly after.
No dispatches for the American gpvern
ment by this veficl. v;
_____ 0
BOSTON* December 20.
THE WEST-INDIES
Are likely soon to becofae the theatre of ft
a£tivc military operations. Capt. Saunders '
arrived at Norfolk from Martinique, in 19 P
days, brings information of the airival there C
of a packet, announces, that a Britilh fleet
of fix fail of the line, and 8000 troops, com- £
manded by fir J. Orde, were immediately
to fail from Great Britain for the Welt In- £
dies: And the Halifax paper of the 30th. C
ult. on the authority of a vcflel fiom the (
illands, mentions the arrival at Barbadoes I
of 5000 troops. We attach some doubts
to the lalt part of the above.—However, I
Vice-Admiral Sir John Orde, took the I
command of the Weft-India reinforcements, C
October 3d. at Portsmouth. I
T.be Fifth Battalion us the I:i!h I
s confuting of between 300 and icoq men,
e -failed for Halifax, two days preview to
d the Mary P.-.rkcr.
is Tlic Modea FrencnTrigatV has beer, cap
tured in the Weft-Indies by the Scours
s sloop of war. '
e The Briti/h cut-ward bound NewfnuniJ
e land and Quebec, fleets we're difptrfcd in a
gale of wind, Oil. 19 iu lat. 46 jg, i WII g.
s 32 11.'
e
THE SHIP GRAND TUHK
' We have no doubt, from authentic infor
-1 mation received yesterday, is in at Town
? (hend, a harbour in tht diftriiS of Maine,
, having 9 fathoms of water, and fhehtred
> from all winds. When (he was spoken oh
WednefJay last, her situation. was not to
I diftrcHmg as reported. C«pt.. Magee. writes
■ that they had caught a few dap befow^ac?
■ gallons of water; and that they then had 20
lbs. beef, and fo/ne biscuit. We feel they
• mult have experienced many inconveniences
' from the fcngth of their passage; and the
• perils of beating so long on our iron-bound
coast; But as there were plenty of tea and
spice, and probable, as /he touched at the
Manilla, sice on bo^rd: and as Captjtin
Powers supplied them with wine and rjufins,
we hope the fufferinga of the crew have
been exaggerated.
Many of the towns arc following the ex
ample of Alexandria, in publiihing accsuuts
of Spoliations by the beligerent powers. A
letter fromCuftine, in the Diftrid of Maine
informs, that the lodes of the Merchants
there have been 30,000 dollars by the
French, and 3000 by the Englilh; but none
of the latter fmee the treaty.
I.OSS OF BRITISH TRiqATE LA TRIBUNE.
Halifax, Nov. 24.
As p. melancholy contrail to the intelli
gence from Europe, -we are impelled, with
the utmost dillrcfs, to- state tile dreadful fate
of liis majesty's fliip 3Vib#(»e, of 44 guns,
commanded by capt. Barker. Thi* ship,
coming into the barber on Thbrfdiylaft,
struck on the fhoall off Thrumcap. The
tide being somewhat rebbed, evefy exertion
to relieve her proved ineffectual, and (he re
mained there until nef.r eleven the fame
night, previous to which time it blew a. vio
lent heavy gale nearly E. S. E. The guni,
except one for signals, and every other
weighty article, being thrown overboard,-
the (hip thus relieved, fleeted a little before
high water, when the gale blew strongest j
her rudder having-been knocked off—~the
(hip leaking excelfively, and every thing in
the grealeft confufion, all attempt* to gain
the harbor were found impra£ticahle->-at'
this dreadful moment lieutenants Campbell
and North, of the Fusiliers, who had been
on board to offer their afliftanee, quitted the
ship, intending to lay.under her lee and wait
the event ; but the sea ran too high to ad
mit of it. The (hip drifted direftly before
the wind until within a small distance of the
craggy fhorejuft below Pier ring-Cove, where
(he foundered—and, terrible te relate (ex
cept eleven seamen and marines, and one
petty officer) every foul on board h«v« pc
ri/he d !
The number of men belonging to the
(hip is fitted to have been upwards of 240 ;
exclu'Gve of which, ab&tn 16 ncrrt-ctrnimif*
Honed o(Users and privates of the R.N.S. "
reg.—Mr. Rackum Of the navy yard—and,
(we mention with peculiar regret) lieuten
ant James of the N. S. regiment, an amia- (
ble and deferring young oScer, who had
gone on board fr«m motives of humanity,
met the fame fate.
La Tribune cam<e out with the Quebec
convoy—(he is said to have been a mod
beautiful frigate, and was lately captured
by the Unicorn, capt. Williams, June 7,
'796.
The Halifax papers contain very length- -
y accounts of the above disaster, which was (
attended with many extraordinary circum- (
fiances. Some of them we fliall give in our «
next. (d»I. Centinel.)
—r—- 1
X})e<lsasCtte»
PHILADELPHIA, Y
WEDNESDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 17
Extract of a letter from Bourdeaux, of the aid
Oitober, to a person irt this city. '
" The American ComaiiflioneH are not received V
yet, hut tiny are in Parii and treated in a frien'lly t
manner, audits to be fuppofid that a good uu ,
derllanding will subsist between the two republics." -
f
A letter from capt. Jones, dated Bourdeaux,
OSober 14, fays, " Our are all at "
Pari* ; they have had otje audience, but we hear f
nothing further of them ". c
f
Citizen Monroe has just puhlifhed a mod valu- a
able work : It I a leflon to future statesmen ; and ■
every labored !i|ie of it tends to admonish the gov
ernors of our repuMic, against the admiflion into "
office, of Jacobins and pretended patriots. I
A HINT
From a Member of thi Insurance Compa- J
hy or North-America.
IF to the repuiar applirntions forfireaffurance
were more generally annexed evihfligbtJketches .
of groyn<l plans, shewing the true distance and *•
quality if. the nearest combuftlble building, Ac. I
with the diftapce of water, ways of communica- \
tion, &c. the-bufinefs wou'd be more readily and (
fatisfa<s\orily accomplished. [
J
PRICES at BORDEAUX, Oaober y. j
Coffee, Martinique * 42 to 43
St. Domingo - 41 —42
Sugar of Hamburgh - 45 —Ji j
Orleans - - 43 —46 j
Soap, Marseilles - - 16- 17 <.
Candlt-s - - - 13 !4]
Oil of Olives ... 23 —24 j
Brandy, 22 deg. - - 385-420 ]
EXCHANGE.
Amsterdam, - 57it058-£ (
Plamburg - - 197 —194 k
Cadiz - - - 12— 13 1
•Leghorn - - - » 103 —-104 j
London - « 26 2jf
i, PR ICE OF STOC-KS.
o Philadelphia, 21Jl Dec. 1 797.
6 per Cent. 16/) 7 [nieri ft
j. 1 per Cent. to f. j oft'
Deferred 6 per Cent.- j
BANK United States, U>diVkfend ■ *
Penufylvania, 14 f off.
-n—- .North America, ,50 do.
a Insurance Co. Pennfyivania, {hares 3; p;r eerit.
—— ■N. A. (hares 50 do,
GAZETTE MARINE LI S7.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
_ FxiraEl of a letter from Robert Folge'r, cast. of
t lite ship John, of Bflon.
Sir.
Ifend you this by my pilot, ivhsnt I have sent
, -with my long boat, loaded -with paffetigers, to
try to land them ;he can inform you of the
diflrtfftdfituation of the /hip John, of Bojlon
and the unhappy people that are obliged io re
main on board of her, expecting every ebb-tide
to goto pieces. I left liatnburg the 2sth Oct.
and got on this Shoal on the 22d injl. The
main and mizen mafls have been cut away, and
the/hip cannotfland tie ice much longer. Fifty
people go in the longboat and forty remain on'
board. Please to -write to Mr. Benjamin Joy,
of Bojlon, who is my owner. My cargo is
iron, cordage,gin, linen, pajfengers, glass, &c.
&c. My third officer, IVm. Swain, of Nan
tucket, -with fix young men, were lofl in the ice
on the 21jl infant, in trying to five the crew
of a sloop (hat was finking.
Ihe people that left the vessel in the long
boat got on thore upon an uninhabited ifland —
Nothing further is known.
The brig Anthony, Miller, from Trinidad,
came into the Capes the fame day with the
John, and after lofiqg her anchor and cable
on the Brown, lore away for New-York,
where Jhe has Jlnce arrived.
Tht brig /.miable Matilda, Brown, from
hence to Bilboa, was taken within 3 hours
fad of the port by a French row-boat, and car
ried into Bayonne.
The brig Terrible, Lowell, from Havre
to tfiis port, has put into Newport, R. I.
The brig Enterprise, Langdonfrom Jamaica,
to this port has arrived v at New-Tori.
Thefhip John, now on Jhore in tht River,
was former/j the Delaware Frigate.
New-Tork, December 26.
ARRIVED. DAYS
Ship Fame, Wilson, Havre 62
Brig Anthony, Carret, Trinidad
Enterprize, Langdon, Kingston 30
Eliza, Peterfon, Bourdeaux jo
Anthony, Garret, Surrinam 23
Sehr. St. Patrick, Burns, Curracoa 18
The cargo of the Caroline of Bojlon, con
demned at Bayonne, was advertised to be fold,
November 2.
■dt Bordeaux L'Annah of New Tori, (apt.
Fcafcher.
The Benjamin Franklin of Philadelphia, !
Lloyd Jories.
The Columbia of Philadelphia bound to Bos
ton, Maiol.
The Fish Hawk of Salem, ProStr. ■
The Ei ita, Paterfon, »f Philadelphia, I
The Jason of Salem, B. Wejl arrived 08.
2 2d. The Louisa, of Philadelphia, Kane.
The Mary Magdalen from America, has
been sent into Bourdeaux, by tht Bans Amis 1
Corf aire—taken under DaniJh colors, with
furs |
Jfchooner fr»m N. Carolina, andfloth
John, Lee, from Aux Cayes, have had pilots
on board since IVednefday lafl, have not '
been heard of'fence.
Sehr. Cook, ■ was to fail from Suri- j
nem for this port the day after Capt. Garret. J
The Anthony aud £liza were bound to Phila
delphia.
From the Baltimore Federal Gazette.
Messrs. Yundt & Brown,
Gentlemen,
The owrlcr of the ship President requests
yon to phblifh the enclosed extradl from
captain Smith's letter, as also a lift of the j
(hippefs, for the information of thofeicon- v
cerned. P
(1
Extraft of a letter from Gafftain John A. f<
Smith, of the ftn'p President, dated Por- «
to-Rico, Nov. 22, '97.
" We arrived here the 16th inft. and am
happy to fay the privateers men are very
much disappointed to find there were new,
orders refpe&ing Americon vefjels and pro- g
perty. The ship, no doubt, will be clear- 01
ed,but the cargo (except the sale) I e*pe<ft h
will be condemned. They have all the let- 3
ters which they have broke open, and fay 0
the cargo is British property, because it Vasi
insured in England. The papers will be al
ferit to St. Domingo before the vessel can {j
be cleared or the cargo condemned. Inclo
sed you will receive a lift of all the confinees V
ofthecargoon board. I should have enclo
sed them when I was taken,but all my papers
and the manifeft of the cargo were taken on J
board the privateer. I was taken by the
brig Triumphant, commanded by Anthony
Labo and owned by him." .
A lijl of Jhippers on board the ship President, [J
capt. John A. Smith. £
Broom, Foulk & co. Wro. Craige & co. o
John Janny & co. (A- R. Dennifon * f<
lexandria) John M'Kim P
G. £c C. Lindenberger William Slater n
Libby Comes & Slade A.&J. Kennedy &co.
Wilson 8c Maris Davies & Fulton
George Grundy D. Williamfon
I. 5c J. Swann Gittings & Smith
J. Walfb, jun. 'Patton & Scott, (A- t ,
L. Buchanan,Courte- lexandria) «
nay & co. S. Craig, da. f<
Yates & Edmondfon S. Smith & Buchanan
Buchanan, Spear & co. E. Findley 0
P. Hoffman & Son D. Stewart & Sons 11
Solomon Etting Davis & Copes
Barton & Fisher Maddox Andrew &
J. P. Pleafants & co. Luke Tiernan. p
H. Alricks
FOR SALE,
Several fonts of Types—half worn.
Including Long Primer, about 40? weight, in r
t;ood condition, and would answer the purpose of
a country printer as well as new,
Enquire of tiie Printer, jiov. J®. si
IjVgton^lottEur, ttT
a List of Prizes and BlAmki.
i.liii day's Ofawing— O<El. 7,
No: D/)h. No. ZWr. No. D 9 lu
1 33" -Day s Drawing—Oftobef o,
''II >4 e°i 2 *° ,J ' 3Jißi
848 8 5» * 617 *
3 *i : 949 942 36109 x
A¥l SS J9 x * 3?°6j *
* % x 268 - 33 646 *
'BS * 16841 9 , 0 Jg 81
34H I74ci a ,? 4 , }J
4609 so 608 4 „ x . 39^6
f S \\\ „ 90 * 55 s x 303 *
l i% lS *?7 2858* 40169
* «53 25 29811 x 417 c;.
"7 19352 30082 42544
x r 7 *»* «£•
111 V* 614 4«l*
f 986 I'A * 650 X y 9 6 £
> W* 89«5 848 ts J
■ 'si,?; 9,4 *• 941 4WJ >-.
' o 5 ? 4 9e gt: x "*» ~*w
" ' *33 99» 250 X
10115 990 32141 x 699-
; l3a 4, 37° 389 5,4
937 8,9 ¥5.5
J9 23104 33999 * 49211 x
' ",6cß x'l ■ 345,7 * S 30815
3 849 ?I0
134 th Day's Drawing—odU)bef 14.
11 *4139 -26690 x 39290 *
770 * JO6 27m 646
1426 x 527 186 * Bp 7
HI 8 £ 7 40408 *
661 _ 15589 s Bo8 4 x 4 1 10 . x
9" 16269 ,0, 4 „
1081 * 355 •* 330 434
l °7 558 7 *» J;
l i i 618 *9182 x 530
J 4 * 996 X 5*9 ,06 860
826 J 7«° 750 907 x
3684 4li 936 44108
944 743 X 30190 Bij
*' 6 . l l 8 SOI 43446 x
651 * Bj s .H485 44cl#
5030 15905 32687 x n 4 x
® 7i X 33374 653 x
611 769 x 918' x
6494 50039 * 34123 4J540 x
404 823 46984
7191 * 0 0 * 8 - , ° 47341 SO
205 »5 878 x a s» 7 .» 610
8037 x 21407 358 9» 9
5?5 585 622 x 48137 x
9SII j* f K 36067 5 Q j^-g
.0101 x 22389 *57 550.
5» 8 * c 4 305 659 *
941 x ,$lB 472 654
11030 552 x B*B x 859
518 J66 jo 892 49018 x
12002 x 792 , 37381 oj6 x
165 419 * 275 x
306 236x4 4U 394 x
328 X 14415 x 771 x 6,5
13169 X 513 x 856 49811 X
9 J 7 959 38132 878
14021 15133 x 183 x
ioi 26513 *7O
For Savannah,
TO SAIL THE FIRST OPENING,
The faft falling (hip
<BKj~ SWIFT PACKET,
" PATRieK Gribben, Master,
lying the firft wharf below
~" : *- rLj£^' 7 Market Street~»has handsome ac
commodations for pafTengers—For freight or pas
sage apply to the Master onboard, or to
N. & y. Frazer,
No. 95, South Front Street.
Who have on hand, andfir Salt,
Prime Rice, in whole and half tierc««, Georgia
and Carolina Indigo, Molaffei in |hhds, Teneriffe
wine, See. See.
[ . December 47 3 tawtf.
, TO BE LET,
And poflefDon given the ift January,
TheHoufe No. 107, Arch-street,
Near the corner of Third Street.—For further
particulars, enquire as above, or at No. ,88, Vine
Street.
.December; 27 dtf
.. . . 1 1 .✓
THE AMERICAN LADIES
POCKET-BOOK, FOR 1793.
JUST PUBLISHED '
By WILLIAM Y. BIRCH,
No, 17, south fccond-ftrec:—containing
AN elegant of the Marquis de la Fay
ette, and hia Family, in the cattle of OlmuU,
with an illustration ; being an account of the princi
pal events in the public lite of the Marquia, with •
(ketch of the fufF:rings of hiinfeif and his unfortunate
family. A complete Almanack— 104 ruled page*
for triemorandums, observations, See. alfo,for account
of moniei paid and received for every day in the year
—a marketing and o her ufeful tables—general ineet
ihgs of friends—Lill of births, deaths, ,&c —new
country poetry, fenga, enigmas, See. <scc.
A L so,
The Gentleman's annual Pocket Remembrancer,
for 1798 —containing an Almanack'; 104 ruled pages
for memorandums and calh account ; Duties payable
on >ds imported into the United States, Cuftom
hOUle fees Sea stamp duties, «o take place after the
31 llDecc'Ynbei; a Jilt of the post rowns and crofs-roada
in the United States ; a variety of ufeful tables, and
other matter
W. Y. BIRCH, condantly keeps for sale, a general
afTorfmentof Merchant's account Rooks, and other
flatj onary goods, and makes 10 order booka of any
size , and ruled to any pattern.
Elegant Maps,'on Rollers, and a large Chart of the
WelMndies.
■Hair and leather Trunks—Playing Cards, EngliOi
and American. Dec. 27 —* 31.
For sale or to be let on ground
rent,
Aipaltiable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-eift corner of Wal
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State-
House square. This lot it fifty-one feet front
on Walnut street, and s>ne hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street; there are at
present two small two story brick houfet, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Al/o, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With.convenient stores. wharf, &c. situate on
Water-llreet, between Mulberry and Saffafras
streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east
ward nine;y-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
ave the convenience of a public alley adjoihing
on the north fide, and are a very desirable fitua
t-ion for a merchant, flour fasor,or others who
miy hiveoccafion for storage of goods. Thin
property will be fold on very reasonable terms
£orca(h. For further information apply to the
printer.
July 31. m&wtf
TO BE SOLD,
Or Exchanged for Property in the Country,
That three story Brick Houie,
No. 157, north Third street. Apply at the of
fice of tt»« Gazette. nor 29- w&s4* ' .This day isPublifhed,
At the r)f&ce of the N>. 11 2, Maikct Street,
I Price oi.e at.d 1 haK.J
3 iew of theconduft of the EXECUTIVE in the
lOREIGN of the Unit-ri S.aLss, connect
ed with the M flion to the French Republx
the years, i 794- £> 6.
By JAMES MONROE,
Late Miniftcr rlenipocatiary to the laid Republic
HI iftrated by his INSTRUCTIONS and COR
RESPONDENCE and other au'hentic documents.
A very liberal allowance to thofc who buy to (ell
a^ain.
December 23. *6t.
W A N T E t)~
K LARGE PARCEL OZ
Scantling and other Lumber,
Suitable for House Building ;
AlfoaquantityofStone&Bricks,
1 am ready to enter irfto contra&s for the a-
articles—a reasonable time may be allowed
<V preparing them ; anil c'alh (hall be paid either
ia advance, or upon their delivery, aj may be a
greed on.—Apply to the Subscriber, House-Car
penter, Lombard-flreet, No. a.
John Crean.
December <9. d 1
New-Theatre,
Die ember 11, 1797.
' *^ ANAGERS particularly request tlie con
jL current of the public in the abolition of a '
«:ufloai, which has hitherto obtained, of giving a
w*y or disposing of RETURN CHECKS at the
Theatre.
1 hey are aware that gentlemen are'unconfeioos
oV ftny wrong dene to tlie iniereft of-the inftitu
tifihby this practice, from a general, though mif
tiKSrt idea that Checks are the representatives of a '
right to Jo many feats in the Theatre, during an
Evening 4 * 6nte»tainment, and transferable at will •
when in fa<s, they were never intended as more j
than toirns by which the Door-keepers are enabled
to afcettaia with the lead trouble to the/a»-/;«,tlnt
the) theitifelves hare been before in the Theatre, or
paid for their admiflion.
Independent of the injury the Managers sustain,
such a praiftice encourages a croud of idle boys and
other disorderly parsons to surround the doors of
the I'heri-rc, to the corruption of their morals and
the great annoyance of the Audience.
It has also been the source of two evils of no in
confidcrable m-g&itudt; one is, that fomctimes
very inipropur company is by theft; mMm admit
ted ; and the other, that o*vin„' to Checks palling
in,to Qilhonelt hands, they have be-n frequenaly
aymterteited to a large amount for the purpofcsof
Th:'(latenient will, it isrefpeitfully hoped, in
duce the Pubfcc to discourage such a traffic • and
the exertions or' the Managers will, if thus assisted,
easily prove t-:quale ro its entire abolition
WIGNELL REINAGLE.
December 13 lw
~ FOR SALE, Br • : "
Joseph Anthony & Co.
No. 5, Chelaut Street,
A cargo of choice Bourdeaux Braady, id and ad
proof, ju.l landed
150 hales of Bourbon cotton of a superior quality
9 do. Sural, du do
A quantity of heavy black.p?pper ja bales
Bwrhon Ind'go of the firft quality
proAf Jamaica Ipirits
Old London particular Madeira wijje / In pipes &
• do. ,jnai:i.et do f qr. cafkj.
New England turn in hog(h*|ds
Gfcnuine Holland Gin in pipes
Clafet "in cases
Spermaceti candles and (train'J oil
Prime DoftotJ beef
Qhoice Halifax Salmon in barrels and half barrels
Do. Herritjgih do do
Bed feoilon Mackarcl in barrels of the fall fare.
Nfw-England tow I'l.u
A few tons of Ruflia cordage
Rufiia feather beds
Clover and Timqthy ffced in ;a(ks
I.ong wliaje-bsne
No. x, t, and 3, Bolton fail duck
A few cherts firlt quality Hyson tea
Carolina rice in whole and half tierces*nd
An in>oice of Dutch hollow glass ware.
November 8. d»w.
NOTICE.
ALL persons concerned are hereby notified, 1
that the fi'bfcriber intends to apply for a re- 1
newal V>F the undermentioned loft certificates of
Stock in the Bank of the United States—He for. j
warded tnem trader cover of a letter addrrfied to ;
John Anfley.of London, by the Ihip Bacchus, capt.
George, which left this pert in Junfe laftfor Lon- I
<fon. But that Ihip having been captured on her
fadage andYehrto France,'the above letter and in- |
elofures have failed in their deftinatiou.
Threi certificates, viz.
Nos. 26325, 26326, 26327, each for '
four (hares, dated January lft, 1797, and
issued in the name of Henry Grace, of Tof- *
teriham Highcrofs, Graat Britain. .
ZACCHEUS COLLINS.
Philadelphia \ noDemhcr 8. 2aw6w
, FOR SALE, '
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. the cornor of Chefnnt and Front ftrects,
A large quantity of Clocks and \
Watches. Also, a general assortment of Tools, ~
Eiles and Materials, coafifting of Clock Move
ment's, eight day artd thirty hour brass pinions 4
and Urge work ; Bells, clock and watch Dials,
Sprifigi, Hands, Glaflei, Punici Stone, Emery, "
Rotter. Stone, Cat Gut; bepch, stand and tail „
Vice's; Turns, Pliers,Chains,Seats, Keys, &c. "&c.
*** Apprentices Wanted.
noyembcr 3. ffttutf
NOTICE.
THF Stockholders of the Bank of the United
States, are informed th»t according to the
ilatute of Incorporation a geeeral Eleilion for
twenty five Diredlors will lit held at the Bank
of the United States in the City of Philadelphia,
on Monday the firfl day of January next at ten
o'clock in the forenoon.
Aiid pursuant to the Eleventh feilion of the ■
Bye La ws the Stockholders of the said Bank
arc heteby notified to aflemble in general Meet
ing at the fame place on Tuesday the second
day of January next at five o'clock in the E
vening. ,
By order of the Board of direflors,
G. SIMPSON, Calhier.
Second fundamental Article. i
Not more than three fourths of tne DireAors
ih office, exclusive of the President, ftiall be e
ljgrble for the hext fuccceding year, but the t
Direflor who (hallbe President it tile time of an X
Eleflion may always be re-eledted. gl
Philadelphia, nov. 18.179?. ft? fit
Wanted, to Hire, f u
Aj /2 rge and convenient HOUSE,.in or near of
the centre of the city—lor rt hich a generous m
rent will be gfven; to be taken for a year, or on
more for a longer teem. Inquirsof the Printer. Et
Oft. 17. c uts cu
NOW LANDING,
J From cn hoard the Ihip Fanner, lying at Harper's
' Wn rt,
he, j Claret in hhds.
Ditto in cases
li * Saurcrnc Win« 4 in do.
For Sale, apply to
ljc John Whitefide & Go.
R- No. 138, Xarkct-ftreet.
Also, eft blind,
ell Bourdeaux Branny in pipes
Fine o!d Antigua Rum
A few cales of Claret, of a fuperier quality.
novemh'r 2Q. '
Engliih Grammar,
Ths second edition, <uiith improvements,
' A DA.'TED to the different cla£Te» of learners;
A with an appendix, containing rules and ob
servations for affilting the mor? advanced diulent*
' to write with perspicuity and accuracy,
e a j By LINDLEY MURRAY.
" This is a publication of much merit, and fully
anfwets the profdflions iii the Title. The.app«:»-
a " dix contains tome of the belt rules for writing a*
ir " legantly, and with propriety, that we recollect to
ha ve seen."
Monthly Review, "July 179<S
t " This Grammar is, 011 many accounts entitled
to commendatory tjttice, its materials have been
j carefully and judiciously feleifted ; its arrangement
I is di(ii:K't and well adapttd to the purpose ol in
iiruAion and its expreflion is firpplc, perlpicuous
1- and accurate, &Si"
a j See the character at large in the Analytical
Revieiy, July 1796.
»= _
„ Engliih Exercises,
I. Adapted to the Graaimar lately pubjilhed by
si Liudley Murray, consisting of exemplification of
a 1 the parts of speech, instances of falfs orthography,
n violations of the rules of fyncax, defects in punt
. tuation, and violations of the rules nefpeAing
•e j perspicuity and accuracy, deffghed f*r the benefit
d °f private as well as Tor theufe of fcT*ools.
It "W« have been much pleased with the perusal
, r of these Exercises. They «ccspy with diflinguifli
ed excjllence a most important place in the lciCoce
1, of the Engliih language; and as such, we . can
d warmly recommend them to the Teachers of
,f Schools, as well»» to all those who are desirous of
(J | attaining cirre&nefs and precision in their native
tongue."
1- Monthly Review, Jnly 1797.
s The above Books are for sale at Josarn fc James
. CRUfsuANKt book store, N«. 87, Market flrect.
g December I. 3tawiw.
This Day Publiihed,
And to be fold by, WILLIAM VOUNG, corner of
Second and Chefnut ftrects,
j Prist 3-Bths of a Dollar,
i, Observations an certain Documents
Contained i*» No. V and VI of \
" The History of the United Slates for '
_ the year 1796,"
In which the or speculation against
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Szc*eta*t of the TiiASUny, is FULLY
REfUTED.
WRITTEN Br MIMS KL F.
y .
Th-s publication presents a concise statement
of the base means pra&ifed by the Jacobins of the
United State's tb asperse tjfe of those
ptrfons who arc hoftile toxheir. di(or
gatiizinv fchejTies. .It . »lfo contains the cor
: refpondence between Mr. Hamilton and MefTr»..
Monroe, Muhlenburgb and Venab'c. on the Aib
jeiStof the documents aforefaid, and a series of let
ters from James Reynolds and his wifci9.Mr.Ha
milton,.proving btyond of a doubt,
that the connexion between him aad Reynolds,
was the result of a daring cotifpiracy on the part
, of the latter and his aflociates to extort money.
. A«iil'cou»t of oHe third from the retail prict
wil l be made in favor ol who(efale puichafers, for
( cash. Orders to be addreifed to Mr.
For Sale, by the Package,
For cjfh, or good notes at sixty or ninety Jayi,
viz.
Book and Jaconet Muflint plain 1
llripes, and Checkt I . _
do. do. Tamboured 1 ' , rte in
do. Ladies handkerfhjefs, & | P lc k a £ e >*
gentlemen's neck do. J
Jaconet chintz muslin for honAe and the Weft
India market, Pullicote and linen handkerchief;,
for do. do printed do. do. common purple and
chintz shawls.
The above goods entitled to drawback on ex
portation. Also a few fcotch-cambrickt and an
assortment of muslin by the piece.
The whale of the above being a conGgnment
from the manufa&urers in Britain.
To be seen at William Bvacmvan's
Office, No. 64, South Second Street.
Nov. 6. lawtf.
Imported inthefhipIVlANCHEsTER,
Benjamin Shewell, Maiier,
From Bourdeaux, and for i'ale by the fubferiber,
No. 11 Walnut Street.
Bonrdeaux Brandy ~i
Irish market claret in cases I Entitled to ,
Medocwine, in do. f" Drawback. |
Sauterne, do. do. J 1
Thomas Murgatrsyd.
WHO H>S FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quart* calk# ,
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
4000 bufh<ls Livtrpool fak. '
Aug. 24. tut&stf.
FOR SALE, f
By the Subscriber, at his Store, No. 7j, South 8
Water-ftrect, V
A general affortmant of China
Ware
Black and coloured Sattics
Do. do. l.uteftriags
Do. . da. Handkerchiefs
DO, do. sewing Silks
Imperial and Hyson Tea^
Long and (hort Naikeens
Quick Silver, in tubs js
Holland Gin, in pipes 5
AlTorted Glass Ware, in cases
White and brown Havanna Sugars, in boxes si
Molafife', in hoglheadl a ,
St. Croix Rum and Jugar, in do. d
' London particular Madeira Wine ei
Sherry and Malaga Wines, in quart r hi
Red, yellow and pale Balks, in chcfls c (
Logwood, &c. &c. ei
nov 7 _ JOSEPH SIMS. Jo
French Circulating Library. v
—■ p
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE, in
No. us Walnbt-flrect, p.
INFORMS those who wish to recur to the only T
means of fcecojning perfeft in the Fitcch Lan- th
gunge, that he has juU opened his Libkaxv, cod- pi
filling of upwards of 1150 volumes, the heft cal ot
culated to afford either ufeful iuftruAion, or plea- tii
sure. The conditions, together with a catalogue
of the Library, may be seen at every book-teller's ri'
in town. 0,
N. b. All translations from and into the French, be
Englifn and Spanilh Language*, execu:ec with ac- ne
curacy and dispatch. coins tm>. 15.
A farm for Tale,
f N Perth Amboy in thf ft ate of Ncw-Jeifey,
A of four a•'esj including a .proper
proportion of meadow, of arable and w«D(3
land, and fait marfli: There is on the premises,
_a good apple orchard, and a variety of other
truJt frees, it ii wet! watered with fprirgs and
broiltt, it s bounded on two fides with navi
gable waters and has a good mill file, its fitoa-
I tjon is healthy and plcatunt, commanding a
view of the navigation of ferth Anihny and its
Environs, and convenient to the fineft fi(h and
T' oyllers in tilth-proper season, it abounds with
natural manure frt»m which, with the advanta
ges of the fait tnai(h by applying the hay there
from to the keeping of flock, may at a small
expenfe, fee enriched to a great degree and ren
b- e ! ec * grazing farms in the slate ,
|tJ it is well calculated for a farther or a gentle
, man's feat, haying several eligible fires for
building. This_farm will be ibid together or
j ditided, as may iu.it a purchaiier, St private
;| . §'jX, or 'f !'. O .V fold, will be set up at public auc
tioil on Tuelday the nineteenth day of Decem
to ber next, at the iioufe of Robert Rattoone, inn
keeper in Perth Amboy, at.eleven o'clock in
the forenoon. - Any perfou inclin'mg topurchafc
:o ma y view the premifts by application to John
: n ,-Matthias tfaljf.'d at Perth Amboy, from
it whom or fcpra the tlon. "Jonathan JDayton, Esq.
j. speaker of the house of reprefenUtives of the
is United Stales now in Philadelphia,, from Mat-
I biasWilliamfon, juxi. efq, or Mr. Samuel Smith
il at Elizabeth-To<vn further information may be
obtained, —and who are pofTefled, of maps of
the fame.
Perth Amboy, Nov. i 6+ 1797.
' 25 —eodtlßD
11 Salisbury Estate.
A. aefi, oiu*rs "this Edit*-for Halcyon moderate
£ term#. On it are on<? BVait and thres,Air Furnaces,
it a complete Uoreing Machine, and a very good grift
». Mill, with two pair of ftonei; also a good Forge, all
tl in perfeft repair, as are all thfc Water Works conneft
t- ed with these various br*ncfie*. The Air Furnaces
c were Lately built tor the of casting Cannon
n for this State.—r There are * boot two thoufcud acret.
,f of Land, onehaifof which iiupder wood, tl>e other
very fine acable Land r producing the b*ft Hay and
e PaliuFe. rhc Cannon Utely mannfafturcd (here,
tully # proves the excellency oi the metal, which is
luperibr to any in this couqtry, and probably, equal
to any in the World ; tar not one ps fixty-r.ioc gwos
3 lately made, althougn fotjie of the 24 were bored
3 i pounders. have taiUd on proving. The ftru
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufacture, and a place of. arms lying in the state
ot Conne&icat,and o»ly go miles from fever a Hand*"
tugs on the tjudfon's river, and having every ad van
tage that frm a plenty of water ilTuiifg
fr° m a r o c natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
u'eful purposes. Tba purchafcr can be accommodat
ed ~wuh allthc,lipck.awd men G is, and pofTe&on
r on c;r bcfoie the Hrll of June next, and preparation
may be made in the mean time For going into JJlafitira
mrdialciy thereafter, for every part will be delivered
in good order, with fame cpai, Ore,' Ac. For
term;, apply | a Mr. JofcpK ipjphUadei
. phia; tlavid Brocks, Efq, one of the
in Coi-.grcfs Fot this State ; Mr, David Waterman, <jn
the preraifes, or to the proprietor in New-York.
WILLIAM #£ILSQtf.
t Deg - 1 ■
v ' House and Lots, in Bcrdentown.
° TjRO SOLD, a hantlfome two ftofy-Honfe.
X with the Lot <?n which it fituated
. about the middle ef the beautiful And healthy
V illage of Burdcntown. The jhecfe i? forty two
feet fr#Bt, and in neat order. The lot contains
,gßQ3ore, and is one hundred feet on the main
Ureet,.and faniic breadth ti.batk
;• . ft r«et. UrgtJLot, containing nearly lour
' t acres, IttWkUd from the former by kack itrset.
Onethird only of the purckafe wouey will be rer
quired upon executing a deed, »nd lor the re
] mainder, such credit will be given a* the purchase
er njay cbufe. This property will be fold free *-
ajl iu<un)!)rapces, and -on ludifputable title givenf
For further particular, empire either of Dr.
William Burnes, refidiug in Uordeutowjn, near,
'he prcmlfes, who will (hew the fam*, or of
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyaneer, no. 144, Market-street.
December 3=wtf
Real Estate for Sale,
A PLANTATION, in a healthy and good fi
i. 1 tuation 011 Cheder Creek, in Middleten
Townfliip, Delaware County, containing. 1191
acres, upwards of 50 acrc9 of which are wood
land, well timl>«red ; the remainder plough land
.and watered* meadow-—of the latter, many more
acres can be (nsde at a small expence. There are
on said premifts, a good orchard of befi. grafted
fruit, a house, with a fpriug near tbe door,» frame
barn with (tabling under, and a log tenement on
one part of (aid place.——Any ,person inclining
to purchafc, may view the jii-«nvifes iy applying
to Wm. Pimkbi.l, on said farm, and know the
terms by applying to Jonathan Penneli, in the
borough of Cbefter.
>qovcaiber 11. 3 t eed
To be fold,
AN ELEGANT COUNTRY SBAT, contain
ing 6 aeres acd 40 perches, wpth a neat two
(lory hiick House aijd Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, &«. (ituate on the Irilh trail lane, in the
townlhip of Moyamenfing,.about one mil: from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be made known upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon this place, for tatte and
elegance, (land unriyalled.
December 1. Jtf
All Ferions who are indebted to
the estate of William Hsyjham, fen. of Phila
dilphia, deceased, are requcfted to make speedy t
payment; and those who have any demand® a- t
gaigfl said eltatv, will plcafe to present them, pro- 1
perly attefled, to the fubferibers.
William Hey/ham, ~l
Robert Hey/bam. I Executors. 1
Francis Bowes Sayrt, j
na-.nn'nr ' . 2.1W4W f
LAW BOGIES, "" ;
Latcfl. London and Dublin Editions.
H. y P. RICE, Bookfellcrs,
No. 16, South Second, and No. jo, Market flreet, '
HAVK just received by the l ite arrivals from x
London and Dublin, their spring importa- c
tiou, confining of a variety of the fate-' 1 and most 1
approved which, addedto taiofc alrt-a- 11
dy on hand, forms the most exteulW collei'lion ev
er offered tor Ulein this country. Theythtiefore c
beg leave to notice, that from the nature of their
conne&iensiji Dublin, they are enabled to (elllrtth
editjpi)s (as tliey h»ve hitherto done) at the very
lowe{l prices. The following are nmong the latell 0
publications. ' n
Vefev, -jrfh'rs Reports in Chancery, %' \ -
Peako'a Cjd"es at Nisi Prlus ; Ridge way's Reports
in the :i;n.» ofl.ord Hardwiek,# ; l'loypr's Procters
!'ra.stice in the Ecclesiastical Courts j Barton's
Treatui* on a Suit in Equity ; Ti.ld's Priuflice of a
the Court pi King's Bench in Pcrional Aiilions, 1 ~
parts complete; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
<wi UCcs ; ntodern Reports, 11 vols. London edi-
tion, '
11. and P. Ric* cxpeql to receive by the firft ar
rival from. New-York the 6th vol. complete of f
Durnford and EasTs Reports, the ad part of Gil
bert s Law of Evldence"by Loft, mid a numbsr ef I
new publications. ' j
]«T.e 26
, Musical Inflrument Manufa£! or y'
J 16/, Arch-flreet. « >
TO THE LOTERS OF HARMO .
4 HMRPt £R, NY •
s, FNFORMS his friends and the public,....
rr 1 bow ready -for sale, a few of his , e J he , "
d anj} much admired hde beard Piano ,C ,'
l'edali p.Xent fivell, (onopahant a vl d l rrn !l. T"
flop, which for of touch Kr lr ?
; tone, Gmjißcitj and durability
I f«per|ority of wi»ch>e flatter, himf'elf, ri
-4 al W,tl uaprejodiced judge- £ they
repair^;
» nivanler j3.
JMwamo.
- Samuel Sc M lC rs Fiiher"
e ... ' 4XE NOw
:- At their Warl-houfe, No. »frefh
1- of Woolen and other goods, (unable to
the season, received b)' tlieUe arrival; from Ei,--
laud. •"
n
Toe* have also for Salt,
Lisbon -%
" Teneriffj (
n Sherry, f pipes,hhd», and quarte.- cadis-
I' Port-Wines, J
e Assorted queen's ware in crates, &c.
diw3taw3w.
J DANCING SCHOOL.
lf W ILUAM M 'I>OUGALL presents l M s
» V moll reipc.-lful compliments to his foriß
er etnployers and tha citizens in general,and re
turns Jiis most grateful thanks, for the very
- bountiful encourajtt he has expetieuced for
tnefe twenty-five years past, takes this opportu
nity of informing them, that his school Is now
e open, at his
si Elegant Ball Room,
II in South Fourth-Street, between Chefnut and
Walr.ut-ftreets. To begin at 10 in the rrvirniiig
1 fOr"young ladies, and (a in the evening for young
n gentlemen.
•s His ftrft Practicing Bjll will be to-morrow
* evening, Saturdav, the 9th infl.
Dtc- tawtf
Imported in the brig Eliza,
Is Capt. Hastie, from Bourdeaux ;
Clatet in t afes of a very superior quality,
H Vv ivite Sautemc Wine in Cases,
,f Olive Oil'in balcets of >1 bottles each,
e '.Vkite and Coloured Kid Gloves,
v do. do. Silk do. *
1. A few pipes of Bourdeaux Brandy,
C For Salt ty
JAMES 1 ATIMF.R.jun.
T '/ r, South Wharves.
IVfto has also for Sale,
A few qr. L'afkn Old Sherry Wine.
. Pec - dlw
d For Sale by the Subscriber,
[ 10 bales Coffis
j 40 do. Babas
11 do. M&moody
17 do. Chintz
7 do. Tookery
2 do. Gorahs
»5 do. Moragungees
3 do. Check Stripes
• I do. Guzzic
1 I box Diapers
' 7 <lo. Umbrellas
» 35 pipes particular Madeira Wine, of
a the vintage *795.
' MORDECAI LEWIS.
\ Dccember 5- 3 aw4W
I homas Randall,
PRESIsNTS his refpdits to his Friends, and the
„ Public in general, informs them that he hasopened
. anOllice, athishpufe, No. 88, Spruce street, for
f purpose of bufinH"s in the line of
, and Agency, collp&mg rents and out
. nindibg claims in any-part of-tJie United States.—
He flatter# that from his long refidarice in
this country and a general knowledge of it, hisfer
cicts will be found worthy the notice of those who
may please to confide:to him the management of
. any of their concerns.
N- B. Security given xvhere required,
nth mo 14 3tswtf
City of V/afhington!
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of tie Federal City.
A magnificent dweliing-houfe 20,000 dollars,
& cafl) 30,000, ire 50,000
1 ditto is,ono & cast 15,000 40,00#
1 I ditto 15,000 & csdh 15,000 30,000
1 -ditto io,ooo & cafji 10,000 so,cop
1 ditto 5,000 & calh 5,00® 10,00 c
1 ditto 5,000 & cash sjOq6 10,000
1 calh prized 10,006
» do. ■ 5,000 citrh,ire 1 ; ■ ' »j,ocb
10 do. 1,000 - - io,oqc
20 do. s<m> - - io.oco
00 do. 100 - - rOjonO
».K> do. 50. - - 10,00b
400 do. - 15 - - 10,000
I,coo do. >o - so,ooo
15,c00 do. 10 •
Prize#.
Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Dollars, 400,000
N. B. Tofavour those who may take a quan
tity of Tickets,the prize of 40.000 dollars will be
the las* drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last 1
but oni : '
And approvednetes, securing payment in ditheil
nionsy cr in ten days alter drawing, will
be received for any number not lefsthan 30 tick- I
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elt jant specimen ef
the private buildings to be eradltd in the Cityof
Wa-fhinycon—T'tvo beautiful deftgns are already
fcleded for the entire fronts on two of the public
fquareA; from thefs drawiagsit ispropofed tu ereel
two ceivtreanll "our Corner buildings as toon as ppf
fibleaftcr this lottery isfold, and to convey them,
when complete, to thcfortunatS adventurers, in
the manner defcrihed in the for the liotel
Lottery. A nett de«{vjflion of five per cent, will
be made to defray the ijecetWy cxpenfus of pi iat
ing, &c: and the surplus will be mad(f a p.«t of
the fund intended for she National Umvcrfr'ty. to
be crcctcdwuhin fhc city of Washington.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of, the
I 'Prizes, are held by the Prcfident and two !D if col
ors 0/ tlia Bank of Columbia, and are valued at;
morcthan half the amount of thelsttcry.
smiVMjL bconcur.
.§• Tieketsmay bo had at the oi Colsm
bia ; cf James Weil U Co Baltimore ;. of Feter ,
Gilman, Br,Ron ;of John Hopkins Richmond
aud of Uichard W-it". C'ioi erV Ferry. m\v 1
JitJ} fublijhed,
And to be had of MefTrs. Uobfon, Campbell.Rice,
Gary, and the ether pricipal Eookfeller. in tie
city.price one dollar, twuny-five cents,in boards/
New Views of the Origin of the -
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, m,6. ,
Juns 20.
Wanted so Char- ,
1 A Bfitifli vcCN. R.i -v. i.-\ . V i
to tliuulaiid avc ~1. . '.. .•. h-:-
JgIhESSSiZ. Apply to
' Peter Bn *l
' WHO MAS F"R SAL' 7 ,
Choice Red Port Wine in pipes acid 'o- •
and old London Particulnr Madeira, fie lur i:.i. c
diate use, in pipes.
[ December 7,0 §£-<•
For Charleston.
i—rtfi SHIP
• ■ VENUS,
1 L y !r g *t fbi tvbarf tfMsJfri. j
? w '" Freight on fci .
O low ce?ms, apd fail the dr.:
opening -Apply to the mailer on boar. 1 ., cv Co
Jos. Anthony & Co.
J3eten;ber 18 §
For Savannah, in Georgia,
IAI, The Ship ARAB,
Thomas Bonohue, Matter,
to fail—Can accommodate a few
For Surinam and Curracoa,
/ THE BRIG
George Washington, ?
Jo * H Diver i. l x
For Freight, or Paffapc, sppiy io
S*F.ISEN KINGSTON,
No. 46 Walnut, 01 33 Dock-futet,
Win has efiw Baxc s of
Bloom and Muscatel Raifms, and
Gin in Pipes.
Desember iB, *2t
. . For Savannah,
(To fail on or before Sunday, the 34th inft. ua!;j»
prevented by the ice)
The faft failing Ship
Swift Packet,
Patrick jGribfcen, Mafic r.t
T T A; ' excellent accomim.da
-11 tions for paffenjjers.
For Freight or pafTage, :;pply to
N. & y. Frazier,
110.95, south Ftont street
Who have for Sale, received by the said Jhip,
New Rl'flE, in whole ar.d half tierces.
December 16 div?
For Auifterdam,
F Rme R v
John M'CK>xi.«m, Matter;.
WILL fail. in a few days, the
pirt of her eargo best-f;.
ready. For freight of fifty tons *f Coffee, or pal
fage, apply to the wader on board, at Wahiur
lireet wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who is Landing, out of the said Ship, from Bor
deaux, and For Sale,
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter calks
CJarct in cases, of a superior quality
Fontiniac,
Sauterne, > Wines in cases
Lunille, )
Prunes in boxes
noveniber 24. 5
For Londonderry,
THE BRIGANTINJJ J|
jggfe SU K ET>
WftjiiAM VVjiittin, Mafltr.
A veffel, about two
hundred tons, to fail all conrenient speed, a
great part of Iter car£o engaged—now lying at
Willing and Franci/swhatf. l'or freight or p;f» <
sage, apply toiite captain. or
JOHN SICYRIN,
La.iJsntnrgcr x -wharf.
Who wants to Charter.
A Vesjjel of about three hundred tone.
nov ! 8. §
For Sale or Charter,
Mljkj, GOOD HOPE,
■/ySvQ Wiil carry «bout i aOO barrels, and
'* t0 ta ' ;e ' n a 0 - For tcrmi
Pragers 'l? Co.
No. 151, South Sccfiod-ftreet.
Who have for Talc—prime St. Croix Sugar aud
Rfira, Madeira, Lisbon, and Teiieriffo wine.
November 7. dtf.
For Liverpool,
The copper bottomed Ship
Hamburg Packet,
Captain Silas Swain.
A Large proportion of her
2X caigo being ready to go c.n
board, Is expeilcd to fail on or i-bcut Sunday, tj;
3d of December.
For Freight or Faffage, apply to the Captain oh
board, at Walnut-flreet Wharf, or to
• * PHILIP NICKLIN & Co.
noveruber 22. §
For Savannah, in Georgia,
THE SHIP
Sally Butler,
Obtain CuisifOLM,
A new vjilTcl, with txcell«fct
<^lw . acconimndations for paffengera-
Sails on the loth of December, for Freight a.
Passage, apply to ROSS {3* SlAlSOyi.
Wlo have to difpqfe of \
A small invoice ot GLAUBER SAX.TS
INDIGO, and a parrel of HOLJLY WOCp.
nov ember 18.
Rukdwj SS" LEECH,
Kaye juR received, and liave for ait Ho. ■.
Waiimt-firecf, "
Liverpool aiid St. Übe? SALT"
Dn. best hoitto CO •* LS
Queens' WARH in eases, aflo.-retl
Jj! urjeaux bH*i HOV of aji esci-IleJit qealiiy
Do. CLARIiT in cj.Vs, .io.
1 H*V ►AVE ALJf)
Por SALE «r CHARTER.,
cu * :
P E G G Y,
3uuhtn its tons, in excellent coif.Uilon, ar.il
may be feet io sea v»ith little.- cipelicc or Je!a,
LISLEIVISS,
' t h •CHK BRIG
WILLIAM,.
Burth<;c s « i ° i *>
november 10.
" A PLA£E;
<» coichmafl, a black Man, who can %t#*\ -
lhe oell re'.omniunduti»iis. Enquire .
t«- . iv ".-.' ,