to/the & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
4
j
!
Numbix 1349-]
The Elephant,
Now exhibited, was bought for Ten Tlioufand
Dollars.
He is 3 years old, 6 feet high, growing to 18 feet.
He eats 150 we!eht a-day, and drinks a barrel of
water ; he has drank forae day' forty bottles of porter,
drawing the corks with his trunk.
He is perfectly inoffenfive; travels loose, at the
rate of five miles an hour, and it the greatest curiosity
ever brought to this Continent.
He it to be fern 'till the JSHI of January, in
Market-street between Third and Fourtii-ftreets, at
a quarter of a dollar, that every one may fee him—
after which time the former price of half a dollar will
be rt-fumed.
He will leave Philadelphia as soon as the weather
will permit. 1
December 31 d
WANTED,
A MECHANIC, to erea Spinning and Weaving
Machines by water, such as are used at my manufac
tory—Apply to J \MES DAVENPORT,
No. 401, North Front-street.
N. B. None need apply but a eomplete mechanic,
and a man of liability.
Globe Mill, - December 29 *796
THE SUBSCRIBER
WISHES to afeertain, whether a certain EDWARD
NEVILL, by trade a Stone-Cutter, or Brick Layer,
who quitted Ireland 178.5, or 1784, and came into
this Country, ('tis fuppafed to Philadelphia) about
fo,ur years since, be living or dead. As this intelli
gence is of thehigheft importance, it will be thaakful
ly received, by GEO. DAVIS,
No. 313, High-street
w & f Tin
December 31
Elegant Brussels 8c Turkey Carpeting,
For late by George Dobfon, N®. aj,South l hird-itreet.
December 15.
FOR SALE,
wly Tfe f a .ff~f a il tn & schooner ORI n N>
Seventy tons burtheu ; fifteenmonths
nIH ; her frame is of the be-t of white
©ak : she is a faithful built veflel, handsomely finifhed off
and well found in every particular ; is ready to receivc a
cargo on board, and can be put to sea without any ex
pence on her hull, fails or rigging : she flows fix hundred
barrels; has a handsome cahin and fteer'age, and a half
deck which will (low from feventy-five to eigh.y barrels ;
has been newly caulked, graved and paiilted. For terms
BENJAMIN RHODES,
corner of Market a?»d Fifth--ftreett
apply to
At No.
At N> 170, «.». » v. .liiriin J.l»
Or to the Captain en board laid Ichooner at Meflr
Willis and ' Yardlky's wharf, adjoining Chcfnut-ftree,.
wharf; where there is for fate
Excellent pickled Salmon in barrels,
the bed of American Mess Beef, and fottie very excellent
Boston manufactured Chocolate.
December 16
jfj|£L For Sligo and Killibegs,
The American Ship Nanct,
' Cuthbert Ktggs, matter.
Will fail with all convenient speed. I
iraight or paflage apply to
William B.ell;
Who has for sale,
4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well afiorted
3 Bales Irish Flannels, and 1 boxes Lineni
35 Pipes Brandy
Madeira Wine ; Indigo. Rnffia Matts,
Also,
A few barrela Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
• OATMEAL, &c,
November n, 1796,
FOR SALE,
7 HE SHIP M ART,
SAMUEL PARKER, Master,
hundred torn burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
Tf the MARY is not fold in a few days, (he will take
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
Orflober 31. d
For Sale, or Charter,
The Ship DIANA,
Samuel Pile, Mailer,'
Burthen »o.; 47-95 lens r built in
SggSrtH Philadelphia in the year 1792, of live o?k
and red cedir, and wa« sheathed 13 months ago, (he
has jull had a compleat out-fit, and may be lent to sea
at a v«ry trifling expence.
For terms apply *0
Philip Nicklin hf Co
Who have for [ale on hard said vejil,
el caHcs of fine yellow paint.
9 boxes and n bundles of writing slates.
I box ink stands and nute prefles.
14 bales of f«il canvass.
And on hand.,
Imperial ~)
Hyiati, and, > TEAS.
SaiKhong J
40,0<50 pieces Nankeens of the fall quality.
19 tubs' QiPckfilver.
* rhefh Hnndaniio handkerchiefs.
A tew chlifts Man'-heftcf g-iodswell alTorted in Cor
duroys, thickfett, Ginghanvs, Muflinets, Dimities, &c.
3 boxes black sewing silk.
180 crates Queens ware well aflorted.
10 tons sheet lead.
Nai'.e assorted, flat and (harp points.
London Particular, Madeira Wi«e in pipes
London Market, r an( j hoglhcads.
New-York Market, J
40 pipes and to hog(W»d» wme.
% tierces Snake Rout.
alogs Mahogany.
Nov 7
For Sale,
Bv George Defchamps, No. 91,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels
and half barrels
Ditto Herring and Mackarel.
Smoaked Herring in barnels and kegs
Ditto Salmon, by the dozen or Tingle one
Si r Codfifh, fiom one to fifty kentals
Fine and onarfe Salt . , ''
Nova-Scotia and Trench Platter of Pans, m the stone
and ground, fcr manure and stucco-work
December I.
Philadelphia , and Lancaster Turnpike
A Meeting or the Stockholders far the Election of
a President, Managers, and other officers, will be
held at the Company's office on Monday the 9th Jan.
next, at 10 o'clock.
December 8, 1796.
Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE.
No. 6$ South Third ftrset, opposite the national new Bank.
SAMUEL M FR UNCKS and JOHN VAN REED,
have entered into co-partnership, under the firm &f
FRaUNCES & VAN REED, in the business of
Conveyancers and Commiflion merchants. They buy and
fell on commiflion every species of (lock, notes of hand,
bills of exchange, houfrs and lands, &c.
Money procured on deposits, &c. &c. all kinds c f
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatnefaand
dispatch , accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the
most correA manner. Constant attendance will be given
They solicit a fliare of the public favor ; they are deter
mined to endeavour to deserve it.
N. B. The utmoflt fccrecy observed.
S *MUKt M. tR OUNCES,
JOHN VAN REED
Philad. Augvift 27, 1796. nv&wtf
Lottery and Broker's Offi
No. 64, Stuth Second strest.
rICKETS in the Canal Lottery, Mo. a, for sale—
Check Book tor examination—and prizes paid ii
the late lottery.
Check Books kept for examination and r jittering, for
the City of Washington, No. 2, *.nd Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing- -information where
rickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
sxamination.
The"lubfl:riber solicits the application of the public
tnd his friends, who wilh to purchase or fell Bank Stock, j
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands, 5
kc. or to obtain money on of property T7
Also Tickcts in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for 'p went
ale at Ten Dollars each, whioh will be drawn early in • y
hearing. , j i" TC »
Philadelphia, Augufl »8, *796
BALI' PE T R L.
A large quantity of Double-Refined Salt Petre for
sale at No. 25, South Third-street.
5.
If Monjieur G H. SiuLt,
Who left Bordeaux the aoth J«ne last, and arrived
»t Boston ; bout the middle of August, in the schooner
Jane, is in Philadelphia, he is requested to call 011
Joseph Anthony & Co. No. 5, Ghefnut-ftreet, who
will give him some information of importance,
December 24, 1796. §
Fashionable Waistcoating.
GEORGE DOBSON, No. *5,
SOUTH THIRD-STREET,
Hat rectivtd per the Diana, frum London,
Clouded and striped SpanifySwanfdown
Clouded Erminat» and Moleikms
Striped do. and do.
Figured Manillas
Scarlet figured Erminets
Printed Florinetts
Do. Caffinets and Cadimeres
Superfine printed Quiltings, newest patterns
Also, per different arrivals,
A large and general assortment of Dry
rmvftf
Suitable to the present and approaching season,
November 5. dtf
FOR SALE,
About i,600 acres of Land,
WELL situated, laying on and between Marsh
and Beech Craeks, Mifflin county, Pennfy/lvania, in
tour feparatc Patents. For-terms ot fjie apply to
Wra. Blackburn,
Nd. 64, S®uth
mwitf
Oflober 31,
FOR SALE,
At Whitefides' Tea Ware-House,
No. 99, North Second Street.
") f tlyfon Skin.
> Fresh Teas. < Souchong,
j V. Bohea
Imperial
Hyson,
Young Hyson,
Dec. g
Insurance Company of the State o;
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, tha an election
for thirteen Diredorn to fervc for one year, will be held
at the Company's ©n Monday the 9th January next,
at 11 o'clock.—And agreeably to the act of incorporation
a ilatcment of the affairs of the company, will then be
laid before them.
SAMUEL W. FISHER, Sec'y.
Philadelphht, 1796. dt9thjan.
Imported from London Iff Liverpoal,
EARTHEN WARE, in crat-ej and hog(he*ds, well
aflorted
Wine Bottlts in hamper's
Window Glass of all li7e»
Two cases of stationary
One chest of yellow Jesuits Bark
Two Gafei of Roll Arnctti
A small consignment of Rose Blanket*, Flannels,
Baizes, Broad-cloths, Coatings, Plains, See.
Paints of various colors.
Baflcet fait inhogfheads.
Also on hand,
Madeira wine, very old, in pipe®, hoglhcads and
quarter casks
Holland gin in pipes, flrft quality
Anchors of different sizes
A few trunks of ladies French (hoes aflorttd
Silk nan keen, &c.
Likewise an aflortment of Dutch goods, confiftinj of
Ofnaberrs, ticklen'bergs, bed-ticks, stripes, checks.
Morlaix linen, platillas, ravens duck, Uritannias, &c.
And for l'ale by the package only by
Thomas £sf "John hetland.
Walnut-street Wharf.
Nor. 1S-
tth&ftf
WEDNESDAr EVENING, JANUART4, 1797.
Road Company.
By the Board.
WM. GOVETT.Sec'ry.
iawtiftj.dt9 h
Wm. Blackburn.
A CARD.
Goods,
Pennsylvania.
Imported in the late arrb'ils frtm Europe and the
Wtjl- Indies,
Holland Gjn, in pipes
Choice St. Croix Sugar and Kum
Martinique Molaflis, in hogiheads
Choice old Lilbon Wine, in pipes and, qoarter-cafks
London Particular ic London Market Madeira Win», ;
in pipes, half-pipes and quarter-calks
Malrofey Madeira Wine, in pipes and quarter-calks
Tenerirfe Wine," io pipes
Russia & Flemish Sheeting and Ravens Dusk, is ca/es
Window Glass, 8 by 10, in boxes
Coffee Mills and Straw Knives, in calks
Mill Saws and Cross-cut Saws, in boxes
A few chests of Bofcea Tea ; Jesuits Bark ; Aflafm-
tida and Tapioca ; and a few bales of CofTaes,
Baftas, Gmrahs, Bandanna and Muslin Handker
chiefs, and a complete aflortment of 5-4 and 6-4
Bjulting Cloths.
O<slobrr 10
A Gold Watch was Found
A few days ago, in the lower part of Second-street.
The owner, on calling at No. 127 in said street, and
proving it to be his or hefs by a defcriplion in writing,
may renive it on paying for this advertisement.
' T)c« ember £9 3
ice,
Frejh Garden, Grass and Flower-Seeds,
Roots, isfc. iffc.
This day landing from the ship Eagle, captain Fofdick,
GOLD FHWAIT & MOORE,
Corner of Walnut aad Second-streets,
/! ml ft capital and txtenftv* Ajfortment of
GARDEN, CRASS ami h LOWER-SEEDS,
ROOTS, &c. &c.
kind*
T wvnty-fix
Six
nith
Three
Five
lea
Common and lemon Thyme
Curled leaf and fptigged Parsley
Pot Marygold Pot Marjorum
Balm Thyme Mangel Wurtzel
Leek Karl Shallots
Rape Seed Rye Grass Saint Foin Lucernt
Red and white Clover Timothy, See. See.
With curious colled ion of the mod esteemed
FLOWER-SEEDS and ROOTS,
Being the nyjft ever imported into this city.
The abov« are from a capital Seedsman in London, and
arc warranted frclh and good.
Printed catalogues may be had by applying as above,
Dec. 17] " dtf.
Just Landing,
,4l South Jlreet •wharf,, from » board the (hip Stdg
ley, C.aplain Ho,(lge, from St. Peterjhurg,
• The following Goods :
RuJTiu Sail Duck, firfl quality.
Do Sheeting do.
Do. Diaper.
Do. Huckaback.,
Do 'Crash.
Would Candles, 4, 5 and 6, to the] lb. of the
£ngli(h- fuse.
White Candle Tallow.
Do* White Sotp in small box«».
Do. Cordage of fine yarn.
Ravens Duck.
Isinglass, Ift and and fort.
Horse Hair uncurlcd.
Raffia Bar Iron.
Do. , Hoop Iron.
Do. Nail rf.ods.
10 Tons Oakum and Junk.
St. Petersburg Clean Hemp:
O&aber 12.
\Old London particular Madeira Wine,
Landing from on board the barque Eagle, Capt. Bates,
and for sale by ROBERT ANDREWS,
No. 86, South Wharves.
eodt-f
November *9
Cheap French China.
THE subscribers finding it impoflible to fnpply their
store with any more China from France, the
being too immoderate in the manufactories, give no
tice that they will fell at prime cost the remaining
Seek nn hand, con lilting of
Defiert
Tea-Table Sjett*
Separate Cups and Saucer*
Groupes and Figure*
Alabaster Vafei *
Looking Glaffirs, in gilt frame*,
Befidcs India Jjpan'd Toilet Defies, Chairs, TaJ)les
nad Quadrille Boxes. PASQUIER & Co.
No. 91, South Seeond-ftreet.
3tawjm,
December sth.
By J. WARDER, PARKER Co.
An Invoice of Cordage,
Conilfliug of (iiffcrent ize», £rom n inch cables down
to rope ef i inches, of different lengths; Imported in
the fliip Bwift, fronj Hull, and entitled to drawback.
Sept. 27 dtf
Th>ofe Gentlemen who hold/any of the undermen
tioned Notes or Draught* (whether due or net) arc
requested to meet at the City-Tavern on Wednesday
n j- XT, at 6 o'clock in the evening ; at which time an
arrangement will be j;roJ)ofed which it is expected wi!l
be fatisfa&ory to the holders.
Edward Fox's notes in favor of James Greenleaf.
James Greenkaf's notes in favor of Edward Fofc.
J jmts Greenleaf s draughts on Edward Fox.
Abraham Dubois's note to Edward Fox,
Edward Fox's note to Abraham Dubois.
James Greenleaf's draughts on Abraham Dubois.
At the requejl of a majtr fart of the Gentlemen
DscemW 19
Also, or band,
For Sale by
Pragers & Co.
diwm&thjm
from London,
And FOR by
Among which are,
kinds
.Afparagus| Three
Bcrecolt Twelve
B Thirteen
Beefts 'Fifteen
Brocoli i|Fifte*a
Cabbage jSix
Carrwt Four
Cauliflower Twenty-three
Celery Twenty-one
Cucumber
For Sale by
Philips, Cramond, & Co.
§
For Sale,
NOTICE
EDWARD FOX.
Bank of North-America^
'January 2, 1797.
At a meeting of the Dire&ors this day, a Dividend of
Six per Cent. was declared for the lad half year, which
will be paid to the Stockholders ot their representatives,
at any time after the iOth instant.
By order of the Board.
dti6th JOHN NIXON, Prfefident.
By the Subfcribers—ln PENN-STREET,
65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wiae,
Nov. 10
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 313, HIGH-STREET.
GEORGE DAVIS announces to hi* profeflional friends,
and ihe Gentlemen of the Law, generally, through the
Union, that his late importation of BOOKS is now arrang
ed, and r ady for Sale, from a single volume to an entire li
brary-, without any advance upon his former cx&eeding low
prices, which forfeveral years paA have in so diiiinguifhed a
manner recommended them*to notice.
Printed Catalogues combining ibe mod cxtenfive collec
tion cl the latest English and 1-rifla Editions ever imported
into this country, are pnbiifhed, and will be delivered gratr»
on application.
Oiders addressed to G. D. in writing from any diftaate
fhallbe pun&ually attended to.
A number of TRUNKS for Sale,
ALSO, TO BE LET,
A co• venicnf LOFT, near M i ket Street Wharf.
OV 8 tU&fflW
Bank ol i ; cunfylvauia.
AT a Met ting of the Stockholders of the Bank of
Penolylva.nia, at tk' £>*nk, December 29th, 1796,
k was. unanimously refo'ved, That, from th« informa
tion this day given by the Board of Directors, and the Do
cumen s exhibited, rhe Stockholders do fully approve the
conduct oi the Directors; and that the thanks of thin
meeting be returned to the said Dire&ors for their activi
ty, zeal, and fuct'efftful in tho discharge of their
duties in relation to the abufei lately pradtifed upon this
Inftitutiop.
Cresses
Onion
Ra* : ih
Turnip
Resolved, That th& foregoing Resolution be jmblifhed 1R
the Ncwfpapers of this city
Peas
Savoy
Parfnir
Meloji
Lettuce
EDWARD SHIPPEN, Chairman.
BFNJAMIN CHEW, jr. Secretary.
Dec. 30. §
GEORGE DOB SON,
No. 15, South Third-street,
Kas just received, per Eagle, Capt. tfofdick, <rial,oA»
don, an affortinent of
Scarlet "A
Drab / Cloak« Orimmed with tur and
Purple and f ermine.
Pearl J
December 15, $
A few hogsheads 6f choice N. E. Rum,
and a qaantity of L\RD, for sale;
Enquire at No. 71, North Water-ftieet,
December 24
Clocks and Watches.
LESLIE and PRICE,
No. 79, Market-street, PmladklphiJv
H.AVE IMPORTED, by the kite arrivals from
London, i targe aflartment of WARRANTED
IV A i CHES, confiding of horixental, capp'd and
jewel'd Gold Watches, with seconds, of superior
workmanship and elegance ; aifo capp'd and jewel'd
and plain Gold Watches ; capp'd & jewell'd, capp'd,
feoonds, day of the month, and plain Silver Watche* ;
eight day & chamber Clocks.; elegant French Clocks
with marble frames j eight day and thirty ho«r, brafr
works, 3cc.
Decern bet 11, 1796.
Wm. Holdkrnesse,
HIGH-STREETy
Has received by the late arrivili,
A Well SeleScd Assortmmt of
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
Haberdashery Goods,
Which he will fell, wholesale and retail, on the very
low eft terms ;
Amongfl <übich are
Some elegant 4-4 ind 7-8 Chintzes and Cottons, new
patterns
Ditto Furniture ditto
Ditto Dimity
Tamboured, Book, and Jaconet MuflifTs
Ditto in Gold and Silver
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine
Mantuas of the firft quality
Silk and Cotton Hosiery
Umbrellas of the firft quality, assorted
lrilh Linen*, very finis, and Table Linent
Marseilles and Cotton Counterpanes/
Rose Blankets afiorted—-&c. &c.
O&obcr 26.
Insurance Company of Norths-America*
THF STOCKHOLDERS in this company are desired
to take notice that the second TucTday in January, (being
the loth day of the month) is the dayHxed by charter sos
the ele&ion of twenty-five Dire&ors for ,the eiifuing year-*
The ele&ign will be held at their office, and commence
■tjii o'clock, A. M.
Thefwb}c<st >f tbe bye-laws of the Corporation will b«
submitted to their confidrration at this meeting.
EBENEZER HAZARD, Sec'ry
tthroj
Pec. is.
C. W. PE A L E, ~
To the Citizens of Philadelphia.
Willing to contribute my mitt to assist the lufferers at
Savannah, I propose to appropriate the products of the
Museum, on Wedflefday, the 4th of January next, for that
express purpose. The constant call for my daily excisi
ons, to prepare. the numerous fubjedta for the mufeurn,
has, and will for along time to come, prevent me from
giving my personal attendance on the vifiters of thi9 r«-
pofitory : But on this particular occasion, it is my inten
tion to be pfefent the whole day ; and it will give me inucb
pleasure to fee the rooms crowded from the early morn
until ten o'clock at night.
N. B. G. W. Peale during the last nine months, ha®
made uncommon exertions to enrich and improve the ■vfu*
feum, and although it is not yet what it ought,to be with
the aid of the City of Philadelphia, the proprietor as«
fures the public that it is daily progressing in ufefulneft ;
aiid the confU.nt visitor will always find fonte addition*
to elevate his mind, and call forth fentimtnts of love, won
der and admiration of the wifdorn'of the gesat creator of
all things.
MBfc*m, Dk. J.
dtw
XJglvme XI.
For Sale,
Imported by the Eagle
WILLI N<3S & FRANCKI.
Women's Cloaks.
diw
tkijl
o. 76,A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRS f & id proof,
Gin, of 4th praof, in pi fin
Jamaica Spiriti, 4th proof, in Hh<l»
Old Hock, in cafci of 40 dozen each
Glifs Tumbler*, in pints and half-pint*
Window Glafi, in boxes, of difftrest sizes
Hazlenurt, in faek*
Whiting "J
■wEKu,. J
Ic fpanffli Brown J
For Salt by —
January 4
List 4>f Prizes and Blanks in the
Wajbington Lottery, No. 11.
50th Days Drawing, December 14.
No. .Dot.r. AO. Dotj. No litis. No. Dots.
JBi 14061 *6197 3*53*
-494 *39 *39 39044
717 10 15167 *7118 10 093
719 10 *15 JO 111 IO *94 TO
(56 10 331 10 326 171 10
1367 IS 413 la 300 474
897 Ho 584 46* in 485
910 10 18151 859 10 Sl9 10
1013 10 189 *8115 40096 50
766 19040 *J0 113
*9 8 1 . *05 850 10 146
99S »o 114 978 391
-4349 10 399 19560 930
701 484 10 671 10 41405 ro
910 i* 554 10 937 496 ic
5»9» 631 30195 i* 887
ton 10 778 347 41688
153 10159 370 7** 10
73* *86 439 43M5
9** *37 95* *® 165
7139 10 94* 31061 306
8191 »lIIZ 116 336
609 **455 * 3*593 5°3
9*77 483 85 8 868 to
445 554 883 10 44481
799 IO 613 33<>5 7 681
*0133 10 995 107 10 45009 *0
388 IB 43194 to 147 439
11139 588 10 770 19 4*7^3
706 I* }470* I* 34018 47690 xo
11061 783 169 J39
«>95 *5H»3 10 3579* 968 10
959 *5* I« 3*169 48073
-13000 to 188 403 10 648
*5* 4*4 417 781
4*3 10 739 *30 10 49*J7 >0
37* *55 J7940 10
#49 *0 *93 10 974
51ft Day• Drawing, December 16.
No. Dots. No. Dolt. No. Dolt. No. Dots.
**5 9*16 * 19603 10 31186
1181 10 tjo (78 so *39l
984 x* 10039 *<» 995 31380 10
*'42 711 IO 10200 34108
*9® *»>55 601 313
J r 4s 495 • *93 94J
314 10 11631 xo 11719 3*9**
4660 10 867 xo *1633 37150
J414 9»* *3* *81
816 1348* xo 67# I*s7* xo
*435 J7i xo 705 3,45*
446 „ <4* 10 1338 X 40916
Jo* 7** 513 »«/ 4*3*B
7i» 10 933 10 15044 41656
*5* 1496« 380 10 43803
*15 15191 413 4438*
Jon 10 446 16460 499
*14» . 633 544 937 to
175 16*01 10 835 45049
**7 *7° *7004 xo 079 10
449 961 *B*Bs <07
' 10 17.188 19649 to 46436 10
568 911 10 J0367 735 10
676 >8*76 10 715 jo 47416
•9077 '9*3* 844 49314
New Theatre.
On WEDNESDAY EVENING, Ja«»«ry 4,
Will be presented,
A COMEDY, called the
Wheel of Fortune.
-Written by Richard Cumberland, Esq. author of th«
Jew, Jcc. —and performing; at Drury
Lane I heatre, Londvn, with urifiounded.applaufe.
Sir David Daw, Mr. Franctt
Temptft, Mr. Huriuood.
Penruddnck, Mr. Cooper
WoodvilU, Mr. PVarre*
Sydenham, Mr. WignM
Henry Woedrille, Mr. Moreton
"Weazle, Mr. Blijfrtt
• Woodrill«'« ferTant,. Mr. Mitchell.
Officer, Mr. Warrell
-Je*kin», Mr. Darlcy, j«n.
James, Mr. Worrell, jvn.
Richard, Mr. Morgan
Harry, Mr. M'Don,tld
•Thwrat, Matter Warrell.
Mri. Mri. Morris.
.'Emily Temptft, Mr». Merry.
®»me Dunckley, Mri. DoSor.
Maid, ' Mis» Milkturnt.
To which will he added ( nerer performed in America)
a Comte'Opera, in two aA> { a» performed at Covent
-'Garden Theatre upwards of 15c nighu) called
The Lock and KfcY.
Biitmmagerir,
Qwerly,
- Captain Vaia,
Ralph, ,
'Laura,
Yanny,
Selina,
Dolly,
. Bo*, Out Dollar twenty-fire ccnti. Pit «ae DoHar.
And Gallery, half a dollar.'
0" TicVftt to b« had at H. & P. Rice'« Aoolc-ftore,
No. s» High-ltreet, an«l ft th« Qffiet adjoining the
Theatre.
The Doors of the Theatre willopen >[ j, and the
Curtain rife precisely at 6 o'clock..
Fir AT KBSPVBLICA!
<S? NOTICE.
'"I"'HE Sales of LANDS of the United States# in the
I North-Wellern Territory, hrrctofore advertised
•n .the several public pr.pers, will commence this even
• ing, at the City Tavern to be continued from day
today, 'till the tenth of February next.
January 4
<r .A flared mmting of the "Philadelphia
-ft>»ihe infof nrutiou and afiifUnct of persons emigrat
ing from. Foreign Countriti", w ill be held at the Col-
ia 4th street, this evening, Jan. 4, at 7o'
N. B. A< partiaular bufineTi will be tranfaAed, the
ztttndar.ee of awmbef» it January 3
WHEREAS it i» necrfTary, that a fufficieat
ftumber of buckets, to be used for extinguishing
(ires, (hould be kept in the city of Philadelphia j
And whereas the legiflaturcof this commonwealth,
by an aft pa(Ted the eighteenth thy of April, in
the year of anr Lord, one thoafand seven hundred
and ninety-five, did authorise this corporation to
make and establish any law, ordinance, or regula
tion, to oblige the owners and occupiers of houses
in the said city, to provide, and keep in repair,
any number of lea l hern buckets, not exceeding fix,
to be used in rxtinguifhing fires.
Se&ion I. Be it therefore enacted, and it is
hereby ordained and cnafted, by the citizens of
Philadelphia, in f»left and common councils assem
bled, That en and after the > day of
which will be each and
•wry house within the city of Philadelphia, as
herein after dtferibed, (hall be provided and furn
ished with the number of strong leathern buckets
as hereafter is appointed and fpecificd, that is to
fay ; Every house used for the malting of grain,
and brewing of malt liquors—every house used for
the dill illation of fpiritous liquors—and every house
ufed<for the baking and refining of sugars, (hall, re
fpeftively, be provided .with fix buckets : and all o
ther houfea, according to the valuation at which
they now are refpeftively affefled in the books of
county rates and levies, (hall be provided with
buckets in the following proportion :
Each house affefled at the Ta-"
lue of five hundred dollar's, . , ,
and not more than fifteen \ wlth butket -
I "hundred dollar*,
Each house assessed at more : j ■
than fifteen hundred dollars . , , ,
and not more rhan twenty- ' w,lh two buekeu
five hundred dollars,
Each house a(Te(Ted at more"
♦ than twenty five hundred ■ with four Buckets,
dollars,
And the said backets so to be provided, (hall be
made of (lout strong leather, well pitched at the
feanrs, and in other refpefts water tight, and (hall
be of a size to contain at lead ten quarts each; and
every bucket (hall be marked with the number of
the house to which it may belong, and with the
name of the street, lane, alley or court wherein
said house is situate : and every house whii h (hall
be built 01 affefled witbiu the city from and as er
the paling of this ordinance, (hall be fnrnifted
with a bucket or buckets in the proportion herein
before prescribed.
Section 11. And it is hereby further ordained
and enacted by the authority aforefaid, That the
refpeftive owner of owners of each and every house
in this city, coming within the dcfcription of this
ordinance, jfhall, within the time, and in the pro
portion herein before fprcified and enumerated,
provide and fulfil, at ; is, her or their own pro
per soft and charge, the said defcrihed buckets ;
and (hall cause them to be placed in some conspi
cuous place near the front door as i 1 each
of his, her or their house or houses refpeftively;
and if any owner or owners of a house or houses,
as aforefaid, (hall not provide and place therein the
number of buckets thereto appertaining, ,within
the time herein before appointed, that then the
person or persons occupying the fame, (hall, with-
PETER BLIGHT.
§
house or houses in his, her or their tenure, (ball be
provided with backets, pursuant to thctrue intent &
meaning of this oniinancc. And whenever an house
or house!, as aforelaid, (hall be occupied by a tenant,
and the ,said tenant, in default of the owner or
owners, shall, as enjoined hereby, provide and fur.
nilh the house or houses in his tenure with the num
ber of buckets required, he or (he may defalk or
dcduA the full colt and charges thereof from aad
out of the rent due or growing due to the owner
or owners of such house or houses,; and tiro owner
or owners shall allow the fame, without abatement
or dedu&iofc.
Section 111. And it is further ordained and enaAed
by the &«thonty aforefaid, That-the tenant or occupi
er of each and every house which (bill b« provided
with buckets in pursuance of this ordtrtsnce, (hall keep
the fame in good order and (hall be responsible to the
owner or owners of the house for each and everjr buck
et so provided for said house during his or her occu
pancy thereof, and (hall upon the alarm and ery of
fire, take or fend the laid buckets to the place where
they maybe wanted for extinguishing the fame, and,
(hill as soon as poflible after the extmdtion thereof, col
lect the f;i id buckets and replace them in the said
house, and every bucket which (hall be loft shall be re
placed by the tenant or occupier of the house to which
it (hall belong, at his or her own proper cod and
charge within after notice given to him or
her in manner herein after mentioned, and in default
thereof (hall forfeit and pay the sum of
Mr. Francis
Mr. Darley, jun.
Mr. Fox
Mr. Harwtod
Mr.. Warrell.
Mn. Oldmixon.
Mrs. Harvey
Miss Milbturrtt
Se<ftion IV. And it is further ordained and enabled
by the authority aforefaid, That the (hall in
the months of and in every year,
by warrint under his hand and fcal, diretfl the cdnfta
blts in the several wards of the clfy rrfpeihvely, to ex
amine the houses which, by this ordnance, ought to
be fornifhed with buckets, and to make to him within
days a true return in wjilng of the state
! and condition of said buckets, and if it appear that
any buckets are not in good order And repair, or are
loft, the Mayor (hall forthwith cause notices to be serv
ed on the tsnants or occupicrs of the houses to whfch
such bucket r>r i uckets belong, to replace or repair the
fame. Provided always nevertheless that this ordi
nace, or anv thing herein contained, (hall ndt be con
strued to oblige those citizens, 1 who are members of
voluntary afibciations or fire companies, to provide the
nusnber of buckets herein directed in addition to those
which they already have provided, pursuant to the
rules of ihofe companies, but wfiere there is a deficien
cy it (hall be fuppiied by the owiier or owners of the
house, so that each hcufc, as deftribed in this erdi-j
The following BILL is now before the Common
Council of this City*
. Am ORDINANCE
To oblige the owners and occupiers of houfei, in
the eity of Philadelphia, to provide, aid keep
in repair, BUCKETS, to be used in cxtin-
guiftling fires.
to be computed from
provide and place therein, in the manner prefenbed
by this ordinance, the number of buckets requir
ed ; and on their neglect so to do, the said oceo
paat or occupants (hall forfeit and pay the sum of
aud for every month afterwards,
the further sum of „ until the
nance, Diall bi provi.led and furnilhed with the num
ber of buckets a is herein bciort fpecified and appor-
tioned.
Seflion V. And be it further ordained and enaited
by the authority aforefaid, That the fines and forfeit
ures which may be incurred for breaches of any part
of this ordinance, (hall be sued for and recovered in
iik< manner as debts under twenty pounds, one half
thereof (hall be for the nfe of him who (hall sue for the
fame, and the other half (hall go towards forming a
fund to be used as an auxiliary aid towards the extin
guilhing fires in thecity «f Philadelphia, in such a man
ner. as hereafter may be devised and direiled by the
Select and Common Councils.
Philadelphia,
WEDNESDAY EVENING, JANUARY 4, 1797.
ExtraA of a letter from,an American gentlemen,
dated Cape-Francais, Nor. 29th, 1796, to his
friend in Philadelphia, received by the Medusa
frigate, Commodore Barney
" I would gfv« you a (ketch of politic*, but as
you will soon fee an nddrefa " to the merchants, k
others, whom it may concern, citizeus of thf Uni
ted States," publiftiedin your papers, fctting forth
the embarrassed (late of our commerce—the unjust
captures of our ve£Tels—the bad profpefts of be
ing paid—the conduct of the commiflioners, See.
kc. kc. kc. renders an accountfrem me anneetf
fary. I will, however, observe, that they fcem de
termined to make us take a part with or again ft
them ; they will let us remain neuter no longer.
They are capturing all our vcflVls bound to, and
from Briufh ports, taking all cargoes by force,
where the captain or consignee refufe to fell tu
them.
" They have laid a very heavy duty upon all
goods imported into the island ; the du'y is by
weight, and not on the value, and is curiouHy ar
ranged : all goods are weighed as soon as landed,
oq some articles the duty is equal to firft cost." '
COMMUNICATIONS.
The plundering of Italy has been juftified by those
who, have juftified every thing that the French hive
done from the begintng of the revolution. It is said
that the monuments of th» arts are given by the Ital
ians in lieu of pecuniary contributions, and Yy treaty.
But what kind «f reciprocity pofiibly exilt in the
cafe ? —It is force to weakness—power to impotrnc.
Individuals who pra&ice on this principle, .ire loaded
with obloquy & merited contempt ; but Bunibens pof
fcfling power, may extrcUc it to any extent with the
approbation of oor Jacobins, even to plunder, robbe
ry, and the threatening the Independence of their own
country. —
It is in vain the French partizans attempt to (bel
ter themfelvesfrom the defeat the insolence of their
minifler has produced, by pretending that the Bri
ti(h treaty has wrong'd their nation. The fopkifms
and lies dircft on that fuhjeft, already outnumber
the census of the United States ; they have made
more than out damning fib for every foul. Even
Frenchmen possessed of candor and good sense will
feel, though they may not acknowledge this fact
The public faith of America is at this moment the
purelt and most unspotted of any nation on the
globe. Let our patriots who wi(h to fee a French
army marching through our towns, to collect pic
tures, ire. Jtc. kc. Our patriots who already think
of a place of refuge in Louisiana—our patriots who
have agent* in Paris, and who expect to get the
upper hand by French help, and French threats
yes, let our patriots (but the word smells of filth)
this if they dare. Eyes are opened at last.
" The fyltem of terror'' is out of rogue. War
with France it nut even a bug bear. The jacobin*
while they threaten this event, laugh out and be
tray their artifice. To French can, Modena, Par
ma, Tufcary, Rome, Sardinia, Genoa, and Venice,
are mice ; bu\ America hat claws too—and can
scratch if it cannot flay.
Lately it was argued in company, that Mr.
Bathe served hit employer! very illy. He wins no
body, it wai said. Hi» lies are all infolcut and as
frontivc. The answer wai—he doei cujlom work.
Fer five thousand French erowni a year, a minitier
haa a good right to please hia fancy. 'Tit true the
money it well laid out for America. Every dollar
of the salary buy« an antidote againil our filly at
tachment to guillotine liberty. Every sentence of
Adet's manifefto haj lowered the pulse of credu
lous foily, and raised the Independent spirit of '■)5.
A» Mr. Bache anticipates the gnat advantage
to the Uuited States to have an afyium lor the de
mocrats from at all, in Louisiana,
in cafe the French (hould get that countrv. A cor
rtfpondent observes, that ft would be prudent for
the party to go fooß—for they are down. Aja
cobiu Prefidcnt is ceitaialy not elected. Tfrc peo
ple are n® friends to The Ftench can help
them with nothing but menaces, jargon, and fe
c®H'( hand promtfes 5 and thrfe area worse curren
cy than aftignats. Bt fides, if the party was group
ed together at New Madrid, they would fee the ue
ceflity of some government, and fubrait to it. For
we hear that Barrington, the pick pocket at Bota
ny-Bay, is a great preacher, of morals and good,
order. Why (hould we despair of our democrats !
From the (Bofion) Ckhtinel
A SERIOUS WORD TO SOBER PEOPLE.
Fellow citizens,
More than twenty yeart have elapsed since we
declared ourfclves an independent natien ; furcly it
is not too foot) to a& in a manner correfpondcnt
to that declaration, and to fill (if we are able) the
cbaraAer we have affnmcd .-—But if we mean to
do this it it high time to pnt an end to the cabals
and intrigue* of foreignert among tie, and'to cxtin
guifh at once the hope they entertain of govern
ing our country. Separated a* we are, by a thou
sand leagues of ocean from the people of Europe,
and distinguished ftillmorc by eharafter and condi
tion, it wovld seem to be no diffisult thing to pre.
serve euifelveafree from theii influence; but, alas,
that influence which we had virtue Enough to refill,
when attempted by the force of one nation, haj
been mere fucccfifulljr a: tempted by the fraudt tf
aiiolber. It Humid be always recolle&ed by the
freemen of America, that an influence over the
people (however acquired) is Co a certain degree,
a'power over the government, and in many cases
they must perceive that an ascendency gained over
a few met), will secure the fuffrages »f many.
When I read the Philadelphia Aurora, the New.
York Argus, the Chronicle, and (ome other of
our public newspapers which for a long time'have
been devoted to the service of France, and to the
injury Of the United States mote than the newfp*.
per* of PdHs, i cannot but imagine many of the
writers in luch papers have motives to which the
body of the people are Grangers; yet when 1 fee
that the patronage of such papers is not confined
to foreigners, but ex'ends to many citizens, I con
fefs that I tremble for the fate of my country. For
it is certain, that * people who can habitually cm
brace the follies, and believe the faljhoocis which they
propagate aad approve, tbe crimes and impieties which
they audacioujly jujlify. mujl be so deficient both in
isiifdom end virtue, that they CANNOT long be
fret: —For without knowledge, without morals, -
and without rjligion among the people, I a(k whire
will freedom find a fuppoiC? The fatal experiment
of maintaining liberty in contempt of religion and
morality, has too oaen been tried ; it has always
ilTued as it mud forever iflue in the establishment of
mjtiltice, and tyranny of the wotjl kind—for it
mult always Transfer the powers of society to the
mofl profligate of its members, men who will flat
ter the vices of people to obtain 'heir fuffragei,
and at the fame time unite with foreign enemies
fur the falce of their support. How such men ac>
quire power, and hoiv they makeufe of it, the hi
ftoryof France, from the rife of Marat, to th«
fall of Robespierre, too plairHy {hews—indeed
the spirit of injuliice, intolerance and batbaious
tyranny which they exhibited, drew from Condor*
Cet, at a very early period, the reluctant cuntef.
lion, " that the republic mujl fallwe all fee or
may fee how fully Condorc*t's apprchcnfions are
realized} for, though the fo>ms of a republic; are
preserved, yet of liberty which conftuwes all its en.
cellence, the very embryos f.em to have been dejlroyed.
Many well meaning men until lately,|have doubted
whether France was capable of the Machiavelian
policy with which she has been charged oward
the United States ; but no impartial man, I think,
cSn any longer deny that she intend/to eltablifh a
complete dominion over our country; prefumi>£
on her military fucceff.s in Europe, and encouraged
by her numerous partisans here, she has now pan
ly disclosed herdelign toward us, and if we haveiAwt
penetration enough to fee it, and virtue fufficicnt
lo refilt it, whatever may be the refuit ot the
piefent effort, o«r futuie tr i quillity is hopeless.
CONGRESS or tms UNITED STATES.
HOUSE OF K.&PR SS E NTATI V ES«
Thursday, December 29,
A letter wa» received from th« Secretary of tke
Treasury, intloting a report and ftindry ftatcmentt
refpedting the Public Debt, in purfuanceofa r«fo
lution of lall session, and an account of the receipts
and expendituies ot l 795. Referred to the com
mittee of Way» and Mea .».
Mr, Fotier from the committee of claims
made report a on the petitions of Roberts,
George Callces, George Carnel, and James Row
land, which recommended a dilagreemcnt to the
prayer of their fevcral petition*. The honle con
curred in the reports.
Mr. Swan wuk from the committee of commerce
and manufactures, made a report on the petition
of Francis Coppinger, in behalf of Mr. Lilefta,
which recommended a difzlgreemeiu to the prayer
of the petition. The house concurred.
Mr. Muhlenberg presented the petition of Da
vid Hallftioufe, a soldier in the late war, praying
for a full penfien.
Mr. R. Sprigg, jun. presented the petition of
Gaftamy Watkins, praying to li»ve a land warrant
replaced, which had been loft.
B»th the above petition* were referred t® the cqoi>
mittee of claims.
On motion of Mr. Williams, the house resolved
itfeif into a committee of the whole, on the re
ports of committees on the petitions of sundry re
fugees from Canada and Nova Sceti*. This bu
siness underwent some difcuilion, principally upon
the heft method of fatisfying the claims in
Ibe following rcfolution wu at length come to,
and a committee appointed to bring in a bill ac
cordingly.
" Rcfolved, That proviftoit ought to be made
by law for granting donations of (and to Canadian
and Nova Scotia refugees, in conformity to the re
folvcs of Congrefi of the 23d of April, 1781, and
the 13th of April, 1785." ?
Mr. Swanwick called up the order of the day on
a teport of the committee of commerce igd manu
'aftures, made the last fefiion, on a memorial from
the (late of Delaware, refpetiing the kidnapping
of negroes and raulattoes. The house accordingly
resolved itfeif into a cfcmmittee of,the whole on that
fubjsA, when a cunfiderable debate took place,
Postponed. *
Thi» business being disposed txf, Mr. Blount mo«|
*ed that the house (hould go into a committee of
the whole, on the report of the Secretary of War,
on the petition of Hugh Lavvfon While. The
house accordingly into a committee of the
whole on this report, and after the had un
dergone some difcufiion the committee rose, hid
leave to fit again, and the house adjourned.
Bank of Pennsylvania,
At a meeting ox the Directors th'sjday, a dividend of
sixteen dollars on cach share was declared for the lift
6 months, which will be paid to the Stockholders af
ter the 14th inft.
JONATHAN SMITH, Cafhler.
3.
THRASYBULUS.
January 4, 1797.
4tf.To->gorr«W miing again the fame performance.
OLD THEATRE.
Cedar-Street.
TO-MOMLOW EVENING, Thursday, January J,
Signior F A L CO NI
Will continue his Philosophical Performances, when, by
particular desire, will be exhibited, the so much «d-
mired experiment, which was performed the last night,
viz. The DOVE.
The performer will request any person to write any ques
tion they please on paper, who vrill be at liberty to put it
into a loaded pistol, and discharge oat of the Theatre;
the exhibitor will neither fee nor touch the paper; and to
the aftoniihmen- of the fpe&ators, the dove will inftaatly
appear with an answer in his bill.
Sig. FALCON!, being ambitious to contribute as muck
as is in his power to the amusement of the generous citi
sens, takes this opportunity of improving his perform
ance, by the lively representation of
An Engagemsnt between two Frigates,
Or, A SEA FIGHT.
This exhibition, in fliades, will undoubtedly be very
interesting to the fpc&ators. They will be able to dif
tinguilh the manoeuvring of the two (hips, of the guns as
they are firing, with the concomitant noise ; the rigging
and fails made ragged hy the (hot; the continuation of
the battle, with the one lofingher ntain-topm&ft, the roar
ing of the fe», and the fmeke of the guns; the view of
the boats, andwonnded men on the furfaceof the watei,
will give to any perfsn who has not seen one, a pfrfeft
idea of afea-fight; while the conclusion of it, together
with the ingenuity of the performance, will be hi,hly
pleasing to every American.
With several othet Experiments, and Scenery, very en
tertaining.
T« conclude with the celebrated DANCING MAS
TER. To begin preeifely at half pafl fix
Tickets to b« had at Mr North's, neat door to tke
Theatre.
>J. B. Box three quarters of a dollar, Pit half a dol
lar, Gallery one quarter of a dolla.-.
To 'the Public.
THE Exhibition of Elegant Prints of the Revolu
tion of France, and Generals Buonaparte, Piche
jrue, icc opened some days pad, at the south-east cor*
nerof High and I hird streets, formerly Cook's houfc,
hating given general fatisfadtion to all those who have
seen it, the Proprietor takes the liberty of informing
the Public that he has added to the fame, a large and
beautiful Plan of Paris (the newest extant) containing
a complete view of the city itfclf, its suburbs environs,
villages, houses, heights, woods, vineyards, lands,
meadows, 4cc geometrically drawn, by Mr. Rouflel,
ehief of the Engineers ; real*locks' of the hair of the
late Queen of France, Madame, and the Dauphin,
may aljobefeen. In consequence of the House being
fold, he will have but a (hort time to exhibit.the Prints,
and, by the adviee of his friends, he means to open e
▼ery day in the week, from 9 'till duflc.
Admilfion, one quarter of a Dollar.
January 3
College-Hall.
Readings and Recitations,
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining.
Mr. FENNEIL
Refpeflfully informs the Public, that
©■(THURSDAY EVENlNG,January s ,u 7 o'clock,
Will be delivered,
(tirst part)
PRgFAroar observations.
( ContinuedJ
Including f«U£tion« from Dr. Young—on
Mmh,
Lift.
PkOtRASTINATION.
(second part)
Idvrin % Ang«lim,
Jtlegy written in a Country Church-yard,
(third part) v
Alexander's Feait,
• With Qccafional Rtmarkj oh the Authors.
Subferiptions ar« received by MPr.Zachariah Poulfon,
jun. at the Library, where the Ladies and Gentlemen
■who may be inclined to honor the undertaking with
their patronage, are refpeftfully requested to fend
their names and receive their tickets.
Orcafioi>al admi.Tion ticket! to be had of Mr. Poulfon,
Jon. at the Library; atrar. M'Elwee'p looking-gWs-ftore,
No. 70, Sonth fourth-flrect ; and at Mr. Carey's, Book
seller, M»i ket-ftreet—Half a dollar each.
The Philadelphia Lyceum,
FOR FREE DEBATE,
\T7"ILL be opened THIS EVENING, Wedn.fday,
VV January 4, (and every future Wednesday 'till
further notice) at the Mathematical Scliool-Room,
in the Unjverfity ; when the following question will be
fubmitttd for general *nd free discussion.
" 1/ the Institution of a National Umverfity either
necessary ot-*- Arable ?"
The Chair will betaken precisely at y o'clock, and
the debate immediately opened.
Regulation have been formed for conducing the in
ftitHtion according to the flriftelt principles of order
and detoi um, and for concluding the debate at an ear
ly hour.
Any pei son present may open the question, and the
spener (hall have the exelufive privilege of reply, and
concluding the debate. The question (hall he decided
fcy the affirmative or negative of the majority present.
Qiieftjorn of importance may b« adjourned to a fu
ture evening, upon motion, to be decided by a major
ity. Any person present at a debate, propole a
tor a future eveniag ; tfeequeftion Ihallbe de
livered in writing to the chairman, and it» reception or
rrjcdion (hall be decided by a majority.
Th» Hall Dial! be lighted and provided with fires;
to defray the expenfet of which*
Admiflion for each, ptrfsn, oneeijhthof a dollar-
January 4 it
Pantheon,
AND RICKETTS't AMPHITHEATRE.
Corner of Chefnnt and Sixtli-ftreett.
For Equestrian and Si*ag e Performances.
To-morrow evening, Thursday, January 5,
Will be prefeated, the following 1 nteitainmeats, vir
HORSEMANSHIP,
A Comic Ballet Dance, called
• POOR JACK ; Or, The Benevolent Crew.
A DUE T, by Mr. and Mn. Chamber!.
The SIEGE OF TROY,
Or, The World tnrn'd Upside Down,
A Song by Mist Sully.
Between the iritervali of the Stage,
£ Q.CT EST ft. LAN EXE R CIS E;S.
In the eeurfe of th> evening, Mr. Rickett» will give
in chara<flcr, the Sailor'» defcrip'ion of a Pox Hunt.
Preceeding the Pantomime Races with Rial Po-
NIFB, the whole to conclude with a Comic Panto
mime. Daors to open at 5, and the Performance to
commence at 1-4 after 6 o'clock.
By this day's Mail.
sO» Friday lafi arrived hire brig Pacific Trader,
Capt. Barnara,in 51 days from Liverpool. ( Fng
land.) I.oniempapers by her, were to OS. 26, eight
days later than before received. "The intereourfe be
tween England and France beip'g flopped, there it no
Parisian news in tbefe papers si late by three days as
we have already pubTi/hed. There is no official news
from the armies of a date poflerior to what we lafl an*
nouncedi Private accounts are later.J
WAR ACCOUN I S—Private
Tirrr ti London, o<sl. 11.
I HF. Hamburgh mails that were due reached
town this morning.
Moreau was continuing his retreat towards Switzei
lind, but not without being frequently attacken, and
a< often defeated by the Auttriin corps that surround
him We refer to the variety of articles which we
have taken from the maih, for a part cular detail of the
cirturaflances of his retreat, and the situation of his ar
4ny.
The Archduke*Clurles wai continuing his route in
to Swabia, and General Peprafeh was advancing to
the Blaclc Foreft,to cut off the retreat of the French
"by that rmjte. 11 ieemed to be the defig nof Moreau to
get iuto Switzerland, but the Autt-ians wiil doubtless
follow him thither, nor quit him till his deftiuttion
Ihall he complete.
On the Lower Rhine, there had been some affairs of
polls, which uniformly ended to the advantage of the
Auftrians.
The disorder of the French Armies continued una
bated, and the troopi of the routed and the re
inforcements of the North, had broken into open rup.
ture,
Qn the iftinftan , the Auftrians stormed and
carried the important port of the TSte du Pont of
Neuwicd, making the whole of the Freiuh ->ho
nefended it prisoners of war.
General Hotge had pa fled the Rhine near Man.
heim, with a detachment of ten or twelve thou
sand turn. The proposed ohj A from thisfnanocu
vre was fuppofrd to be a diverliuit, while the arch
duke ftiould attack Kehl.
Odtober jj.
This morning the Hamburgh mail due an Sun
day, reached town.
Letters from Stutgard of the Bth, (late, that
a detached column of Morgan's army having paljed
the Danube, fell in with the corps of Ndrtciutorf in
the environs of Hechingcn. The enemy was re
pnlfed with loss ; and as general Petrafch was ad
vancing with his corps to Ulligen, the fame column
would be taken ill flank, and rilked being entirely
cut off from Moreau's aimy, ftom which it wasfc
parated by the Danube.
A letter from Durlach, of the Bth inlt. Rates,
that the head-quarters of the Archduke Charles
were, on the following day, the 9th, cxpe&ed at
Renchen. On the Bth a heavy canonade was heard
on the fide •■{ Landau.
Oil the 7th inft (he hereditary pn'n. e of Wir
temburg left Stu'gard, on his routt for Loudon.
A letter from Bremen of the 18th, ftom our
correspondent there, dates Lamhui to be inverted
by the AuArians. Thejrraife o>ifui!<u:ia»s wher
ever they go. On the gth they entere.l Bingen.
There was A report of an ncvantage by
the Aultrians in the Hnn'iftruck on the i"2th itill.
Goldsmith
Grjy
The difficulties i f Mureau'l retreat were consi
derably incveafed by the advance of general Pe
trafch, and the large bodies of armed peasantry,
and the rapid advance of the archduke Charles
would Hill greatly add to the chances against be
ing able to effedt his afcape aerofs the Rhine. Mo
rcau retreated {lowly, wi'h the view of favl»g his
paik of artillery, which is veiy numerous. The
citcunftance would probably enable the aichjuke
Charles to ac< ompli(h his oKjeft. r That aft i/e w'tr
rior was ascending the Rhine by rapid marc lies,
and on the 6th his head quarters were at Renchen,
in the vicinity of Kehl.
Dryden
On the Lower Rhine a perfect inatftivify seems
for the present to prevail
On the 9th, the Auftrians took Bingen by as
sault, which place is situated on the left bank ot
the Rhine | and on the Btfi, a heavy can«nad« was
heard on the fide of Landau, which is fiid to he
inverted by the corps of Aultrians that some days
ago crossed the Rhine.
The empress of RulTia, it is said in in article
from Germany, has puhliffoed a declaration, in
which (he affirms, tha l she will protest ihe'antient
eo-iAitution of the empire, as guarantee of the
treaty of Wellphalia, and will fend 100,000 men,
to be at the difpofitl of the court of Vienna, for the
re-eftablilhment and defence of the conftitatien of
the empire.
. FRANKFORT, October 11
The, following is a ftatennent of the pofitton of
the Attftmn troops in the theatre of war ia Ger
m .ny, "so far as it ia at present known :
General Frolich, in conjunction with generals
Graven and Wolf, it polled.between the fmali ri
ven of Schusand Argjn* which fall into the lake
of Constance.
Genrral Latour v it on the Danube, near Ulm,
&c.
Naundorf, in conjun&ion with him.
Genera! Petrafch, it in the valley of Kinfing,
and the BUcfc Foielt.
The archduke Chicles, general Wartenflcben,
and general Slrader, ar* near Buhl in Swabia.
General Hoize is in the lines near Lauter.
General Neu is on the Nahe,
General Monfrauld and general Kray, arc op
posite Nluwied ; and general Wet neck i* oa the
Sieg.
The Hungarian Assembly of the ftatet, from
which so much it expc&ed, will, it it said, last three
weekt.
The prince of Erterbazy will alone prefect the
emperor with 100,000 florins, and 100 huflart.
The number of Croatt which past through the vi
cinity of Vienna to the army, it inconceivably
gieat.
A folrms proceflion has been held at Prague at
a thankfgiviwg fei the delivery of Bohemia from
BOSTON, December 47,
October 11
OAobcr 26.
VIENNA, October 1
the danger witk w'uich it wai threatened by the re
publican«.
Forty thousand recruits, it is said, will be raised
in that part of Poland which is the new u-quifition
of Ruflia.
BRITISH HOUSE OF COMMONS.
FRIDAY, 'OCTOBE*. 21
ARMY ESTIMATES,
Mr. Windham, stated, the whole force, f or
which piovifmns was to be made, was 196,674
men : in this were reckoned not only the home ar
my, known under the heads of guards and garri
sons, in which were included the troops in Guern
sey jnd Jersey, but also the trwops serving abroad,
under the name of Plantation army, including all
those in the Well-Indies, Nova Scotie, Gibraltar;
in short, in all our colonies, excepting tbofr inthe
East-Indies, which were on a different eftablilhment.
T he expence of the whole of those, and all theap
pendages, he dated to amjunt to the I'um of
5,190,7211. This the committee would fee was
somewhat, though very little, fliort of the last years
estimate. The commir.ee, hewever; were not to
look upon this as a saving, because the other esti
mates not prefentcd, would contain fame addition
al expences : but the whole, he was furc, taken to
gether, would not exceed those of the last year.
1 he Home army, or guards and garrisons, he da
ted to amount to 60.75$ men.
The remainder, or Plantation troops, 1064,277
—on the former of these there was an exceft over
that of last year of 11,546 —and on the other
there was a diminution of 11,641. D«dudting that
exccfs from the diminution, there wat some small
rediiftior. on the whole.
Having thus Itatcd the various (ftimatcs under
their refpeftive heads, he moved a refutation, that
a number of men, not less than 60,765, be'em
pliiyed for the turreiit year.
Gen. Tarleton, said there was one branch of ex
pence, which he th tight ought to be saved, re
cruiting itwnejr. If we abandoned our old mode
of railing men by heat of drum, fair the new French
mode of requisition, there could be no occasion for
lavilhing money on the recruiting service.
The cxpence of the last year for the army alone,
amounted he said, to the .whole revenues of the
country, ar it flood on the year prior to the com
mencement of the war How then, he wished to
kndw, were the other expenses to be defrayed par
ticularly as we were going to raise an additional
force of no Hfs than one hundred and three thou
sand men ? This was a furious conlideratien for the
feoufe of commons, particulatly for a new parlia
rucnt. Theie wete many other things upon which
he might enter, but he owed it to the (ituation of
the country not to do so. A» to the refourcei for
these cxp ences,,he could not fee where they were
—ourconquefts were rather bofiowed from pur al
lies than taken from our enemies. Hehopedthey
would not be an obilrudlion to Lalt
year there was a kind of i;oyal piomife, that there
thould be gieat operations in the Weil Indies : but,
it we looked to the Well-Indies, either in a gene
ral view of the whole, or particular islands, there
was no cause to triumph* and it would remain foi
till that go. tleman, Vitlor Hughes, was dislodged ;
The chancellor of the exchequer brought in th.'
hill for enabling his m-ijelly to require the provifi
onal aflillance of certain pcifons, in order to form
a body of cavalry ; which was read a.firll time, and
oideicd 10 be reid a second time to morrow.
Exporhitian of Cam.
Mr. Ryder prefaced hii mo'ion with observing,
that t,laugh si me reduction had taken place in the
pi ice« of corn, the com nittee would doubtlefi fee
the propriety of continuing the regulations whici
were already in exillefice, with refpeft to that ar
ticle, and of (till holding ou' inducement! to its
impoitation, and re{lriftii»ns on in exportation
The aft which wis at prrfent in foree on the fnb
jed, went to three points : to the prevention of
the exportation of corn, to the importation of other
provisions. The price of coin, i' was true, was
still such as to warrant a fuppoliiion that exporta
tion #ould be prevented by it j but at in a,parti
cuhr dirt' ift the fluctuation of the maiket might
cnnfiderably reducc that price, he thought it for
the general interest of the country that ths laws now
in force concerning corn fhotild be continued, left
this local reduction of its value should be the occa
sion of its exportation. All other provifioni were
at a price which would render the other part of the
aft still of use. He should therefore move a refo
lutian for continuing the aft of last frffion, with
the amendment of two claufcs, which, when the
farmer had been able moie juttly to estimate the
nett produce of the year after feed lime, might be
found necessary. The fiift was, that a permission
should be inferred in the bill, for repealing it du
ring this feflion, if it should be found inconvenient ;
the ether a limilar permission to his majesty in coun
cil, to suspend or repeal any part of it during the
vacation of Parliament.
The committee.agreed to this refutation, which
was reported to the houfr, and leave obtained to
briug in a bill conformable to it.
Mr. Ryder moved to consider the bill for permit
ting the importation of unmanufactured silk in
neutral bottom*, which wai agieed to, and a com
mittee of the whole houfc ordered for the purpose
tomorrow.
HAGUE, October 11.
Last Saturday another affray happened here be
tween tha'French garrison and the Dutch half bri
gade; fupperted by the regiment of Waldeck, in
confequrnce of which the convention decreed yes
terday, that in order to prevent similar diftuibance*
for the future, our garrison (hail be rcinforced by
two squadron* of Dutch horse.
About too (hip* are lying at Amsterdam, laden
with Eajflith-goode, the proprietor* of which have
received order* to unload them.
LONDON, o(Sober 26. .
INVASION OF ENGLAND.
A» the member) of opposition have afFected to
queOisn the existence of any intention, on the
part of the French government, to make a descent
in this country, tht testimony of a general Officer
who served the republic during three yer.rs, ani:
who wa* acquainted with the' plan* tnddefign* 01
tke Dii«doiy, will fuffice to expel all doubt* en
SILK,
«t»« fubjeft. We have, therefore, extra&rd •'le
following mffage from the memoirs of general D •-
nican, entitled, " The Banditti Unmasked«
tranflatiun of which we are happy to And is now in
the press.
" This expedition (a descent upon England)
which is not so chimerical «9 some prions afL£\ t<i
believe, has two principal objrfts :—rirft, to Ly
wa!le a rich and flovirifhinp country, Wy the intio
du&ion of Robcfpierrean liberty {—and fecondl*,
in the event of a fypurate peacf with the emperor
to get rid of that mafj of Belgians, and
other tronps, for which the Dtreftory will have r.o
further occasion, and which they mull Tend to pt
rifli in foffie country or other.
" For a long time, the irrtmenfe riches of Eng.
land h*Te been holden out as a lure to ifcc repub'.i-,
cans ; thepcrfons to command this famous
drfcent, rely on meeting jarith -v-w(«l fiicnda, par
ticularly in Ireland. They publicly boast that they
(hall be received with open arms, and seconded t-y
a numerous party. I*he plans for carrying thijdr
fign into execution are all fettled ; and the moment
is probably not far distant, when ambition will curne
to expire with rage on the coasts »f an ifte, whose
inhabitants are real patriots, and in which the ge
neral fafety prescribes the necessity of retraining
with vigoyr the partizansof anarchical libsrty, op
pit-flive equality, and wretched fraterniiy."
STOPPAGE or INTERCOURSE asms*
FRAN CE and ENGLAND.
The ftnpage of all communication with France,
for the la It fortnight, or m-ire, hai created no small
decree »f speculation, and varioui are the conjec
ture! to which this circumstance hat giveu life.—
We have heard it attributed to internal infurreAion,
but wc do not think that any immediate pieviou*
appearance! in Paris, or the department!, warrant
thi» conclusion. It hai been attributed, and we
think with greater jutticc, to the dtfaftcTi cf the
French armiri, a knowledge ot which, thro' rfie
channel of the French journal!, the diredtory are
probably unwilling ftyuld, at the prefeui ciifil,
reach this country.
We can, however, aflign a flill deeper and more
important cause for th« fioppage of communication*
from France. It is well known, for we stated it to the
public at the time ofit» arrival, that the paiTport for
an agent to be sent from this country to treat foi*"peaee,
was cloggtil.with the new and ui.reafon«ble stipulation,
that such agent or envoy should be in efled with full
powers to treat definitively. This condition inftitut*
ed, thatno intercourse should be allowed with thi»
country during the progress of such negotiation. Thlt
our Ministers ftuuld have availed themselves of the
paiTport, clogged with such conditions prove! mor<
strongly than any word can do, their earnest desire to
procure tranquility to Europe. It never could bel'up.
posed, however that the French could mean that no
communication was to be made by ourenvoy of his re
ception, and his idea, from appearances at Parii, of the
probible result of his mission. V'dfind, however,
frona the fvent that the French construe their condi
tion ia its molt rigid and literal sense, and will not
permit of the smallest commnnica'ion, till pr«bal)ly
the return of our Ambassador re infeftai or till the cb
jcdl of his embaiTy (hall have been completed. Such a
proceeding, however, i« equally new and
jnd .■« we conceive that no proportion for peacr will b«
liflcned to, that does not include all our allies, Ivho
have l'o nobly persevered in the prosecution of tlje con
test : and as many pontsof difcufiton rnuft neceflai ily
arifc in the arrangements ti at are to lead to peace, w«
conceive that no negeciation whatever can be carried
en under such reflr (ftiops, if in such unfair and illibc
rar-reitridlions the Executive Directory mean to perfc
vere j we ihall not be furpril'ed therefore, to fee
Malmeibury return without having been able to acort!-
pliih the grand objeA for which he was sent.
Notwithilanding the many paragraphs and reports
to the contrary that have been circulated, we can ai»
sure the publtc, that to a lite hour last night, no met
sage from nor anyjaccount of Lord Malmefcury hid
reached town lincehis embarkation in the flag or tru«
at D»rer.
NEW MILITIA LAW.
In co/ifequmee of the dread of an invasion, Par
liament has ptepared a hill for establishing a corpiof
feled militia, fr«m which a certain number are to
be drafted, organised, difciplioed, and to take the
field for a certain 'number of day* ; when new
drafta are to be made, and take the place of the
firo, who return to their homes; and f* on in suc
cession. Thit feleft militia, which thus prepared
for a&ual ferrice, ana will be kept ready to miif
ter at a moment's warning, is to consist of 63,681
men. An oath is to be idminiKered to each man
when drafted, purpotting, that he ii a Proteiant,
that he acknowledges allegiance to his majesty, and
that h# will fevve for the defence of she realm dur
iag the exigence of this ad. Fifteen pounds is
the penalty for a n«gle& or refufal of service, when
drafted, or to take the oath.
Mr«. King, the lady of the American minister,
wai introduced to the king, queen and prineefTes,
on the aoth inttant.
Yesterday a board wat held at the admiralty «f
---fice, Whitehall, wheu seven frefh (hips were order
ed to be commifiioned dire&ly.
An express was received at the feeretary of ftate'a
•sice yeftetday from Dover, which announces the
fafe arrival of lord Malmfttury and fait* at
from whence they set forward with the appointed
escort to Paris, where they were cxpeAcd to arriv*
la It night.
Mai lied, it Peterfljurg, Roflia, OA. 4. The
King of Sweden to the Ruffian Piincefs Aikx-
ANDRA PAWLOWNA.
Philadelphia, yanuary 4.
Mr, Cox the celebrated ."Bridge builder is srt-U
ved is the United States.
NEW THEATRE.
• This evening the Wheel of Fortune and the
Lock and Key, will be ixprefented. The firft ,i
well known. Mr. Cooper's Penrudduck. at W;u
last exhibition, was a hrrifhe.t Specimin of fiae's'C
ing. The amat'Urs of dramatic excellence weft,
perhaps, never more gratified on jhe ftmeru?. 1
boards. The Ltd and Kty i» a new piere h?r„
which had almost unparallelled fvcccfs ii L'>i>.)«u.,
Firm/bed Slpartmmt:, or Bodtd & LoJgfOgl
vVANT£D by twe young gentlemen. Ai l".
with particulars, to beaddceffed to S. F. a: tit
, of this faper. J«y«iiary 4 yNew Books.
Robert Campbell & Co.
No. 40, South StcundJireet,
Arc just opening a large and extenfivc aflbrtmerit of
the latell and best London editions, among which
are the following new, valuable and scarce Books.
'Gollc&ion of State Papers, relative to the present wars
between Englaad and France, containing authentic copie
of all the treaties, manifeftoes, proclamations, &c. made
by the different powers, 3 vols. 8 vo
Stedman's History of the American Revolution, 2 vols*
4to, with elegant maps, plates, &c.
Ferrufoii's history of the Roman republic, 3 vol. 4 to.
Britiih Poets, 75 vols, with the lives by Dr. Johnson.
Same book, 44 vols.
King of Pruflia's works 10 vols. Bvo French.
M<?gnot*s survey ©f the Ottoman Empire, by Hawkins,
4 vols.
Mirabeau's speeches % in the National aflembly, tianflat«d
by Wbite, 2 vols*
Douglafs's travelling anecdotes.
Secrct history of Ch." js 11. 2 vols.
Britiih Plutarch, 8 vols. 11 mo.
Courtreau's coafeffions, % vols.
Venya's history of Caliiornia, * vols, Bvo.
Anderfon's account of China, 8 vo. ,
Beaumont and Flctcher's works, 10 vols. Bvo.
Eft's journey thro' Fsanders, Brabant and Germany to
Switzerland, Svo.
WyndhaMs's traveU Jthro' Europe, 4 vols. Bvo.
Smyrnove's (urvey of the Ruffian Empire.
Forfter's northern voyages, 8 vo.
Varieties of literature, 1 vol. 8 vo. „
Grozier's defenption of China
Welton'i Univorlal Botanist, 4 vols. 8 vo.
Elegant extra&s in Natural History, 2 vols. Bvo
Guthrie's history of the world, 11 vols
D'Anville's compendium of ancient geography, % vols.
with maps, &c.
Blackitone's commentaries on the laws of England, by
Christian, 4 vols.
John Hall Stephenfon's works, 3 vols. Svo.
Langhorn's Plutarch, 6 vols, la mo.
Beauties of the Drama, 4 vols.
Muller's liluftration of the Sexual systems, a vol*. Svo.
with plates
Prieflley's le&uro* on history, * vols. Bvo
Chambers's Dictionary of arts and sciences, by Dr. Rees,
5 vols, folio.
Beawe'a history' civil, commercial, political and literary
of bpain and Portugal, a vels in one, foKo,
Manftein's memoirs ot K-uflia, from 17x7 to 1744> with
map-, pians, Sue. 4to.
Forfeit's voyage to New. Guinea, with plates, 4to.
Wright'* travels thro' France, 1 vols. Bv#
Dougiafson the antiquity of the earth, 4(0
Clavigero'shiltory ot Mexico, translated by Culleu, a voh
4to» plates.
Condorcet's life ofTurgot
Maretti's travels thro' Cyprus, Syria, &c. a vols.
Lavater's e flays on Physiognomy, 3 vols. Bvo.
World Diiplay'd, ao vols, bound in 19.
Memoirs de Dujnouriez.
Foundling hospital for wit, a colle&ion of fugitive pieees,
voib. 1 amo.
Letters from Paris in 1791 and '92, with a representation
of he capture of Louis XVI. at Varcnnes, a vols.
8 vo. /
Moore's view of Society and manners in Italy, France,
Switzerland and Germany, 4 vols. Bvo.
Ruffel's modern* .burope, 5 vols.
Gibbon's Roman Empire, a vols, abridged.
Andrew's hiftoiy of the war with America, France, Spain
and Holland, 4 vols. Bvo with portraits, maps, plans, &c.
Ribeaut's history of the French Revolution*
Ulloa's voyage to South America
Burke on the sublime and beautiful
M eckar on the airainiltration of the Freneh finance*
Mdrcimer's complete dictionary of trade and commerce
folio.
Northern antiquities, a vols. Bvo,
Dediley's coilu&ion of Potms. 6 vols. Bvo.
RadciifFt's journey thro' Holland, 4to.
Pennant's hiifory of Quadrupeds, with elegant engravings,
a 4to.
Phiioiophical Di&ionary, 4 vol. ia mo.
Bolingbroke's Philoiophical works, j vol. Bvo.
Antiquitel's memoirs ot the Co«.rt of Louis xvi. a vol. Bvo
Children's friend, in Italian, 4 vol- Bvo.
Home's element's of criticism, s vol. Bvo.
ColliAioa of Prologues, See. 4 vo . nmo.
Buchan's life of Fletcher and Thornton, Bv®.
Gay's fables, with elegant engravings, 8 vo.
K.enaecy on Gardening, a vol. Bvo, '
Abercrombie's Gardener's Di&ionary, 3 vol. 12 mo.
Remarkable instances in ancient and modern hillory, ex
emplified by biographical iketches.
Biographieal Dictionary, containing the lives ms the raoft
eminent petfons, Bvo.
* Comparative display of different opinions on the French
revolution, a vo)
Complete art of Book-keeping.
Biographical anecdotes oi W. Hogarth the Painter.
Button's Natural history oi Birds, 9 vol. Bvo.
Elegant extf aats, prole, verfc.cpiftle and lermons 4VOIBvo.
Martinicre, le SrEHd D diohaire Gcograptiijuc et On
tique, is vol. folio.
New fyfl>*m ol Matural History, 3 vol. 8 vo. with plitoß
- lor the- government of British India, published un
der toe au pices of Mr. Dundasas Secretary, 4to.'
Lord fciawkcibu.y on the conduA of Great-Britain, to
Neutral cations.
Hoyle's Dictionary, o* treasury of music, Bvo.
Hiltory of France, from the fir ft cftab ifhment of that
monarchy, to, and including a narration of the late
revolution, 3 vol. Bvo.
Hiitery of Spam, 3 Vol.
<3oldfmtth'i experimental philosophy, % vols-Svo.
Kippax's I'Aeory and Pracfice of Commrree.
PurtLock's and ijixou's Voyages.
Family Brewer.
Travels 01 Anaicharfis.
Thompson's Seasons, elegant edition
Payne s Geographical Extrails
of natural history, 2 vol. from the German of
f rofelfor Raff
Williams's letters from the 18th of July to the efta
blilbment of the conlUtution of '95
Frend's Algebra
Chalmers's colleiUon of treaties, 1 vol.
Si* on the conlh u&ion and ufc of thermometers
Ned Evans, 4 vel.
Clarentine, 3 vol.
Sullivan's view of nature, 6 vol.
Bcloe!s translation of Herodotus, 4 vol.
Pindar's works, with -a new volume
King of Prufiia's work, zo vji. in French
_ Marshal's rural ornaments, » vol.
Hoole's translation of Arioflo, a vol.
The kisses of Johannes Seeuodes
Bslllham's memoirs of the reign of George 111.
Letters ot mi dindoe- Rajah, 2 vol.
dward's history of the Well-Indies, a. vol.
Bells British theatre, Ml. elegant
Jones's do lovd.- do.
Ouvres dc Voltaire, ;o torn. tic.
Works of the kingjor.iVjffia, ,3 yol. (Engl.fh) do.
Abbe de-Lalonne 3 view.of the politiciliUte ps Europe.
Swift's works 37 vol.
Letters from 1 vol.
Gibbon's mifcellaneeus works, 3 vol.
Gibbon's Roman jjnpire, 6 vol.
<solleiSlion of Faffts,' 6 vol.
K. C, & Co. have received an immfnle colledlicn of
Books irt every department of and
Dublin editions—amongst which arc a capital afibrt
ment of LAW-BOOKS, MEDICAL B >OKS_, &c.
all in the neatest and some of them in the most splen
did bindings.
Public and private Libraries supplied on the most
reasonable terms.
December 24.
WHEREAS very large and heavy debts are justly
due and owing from mefirs. Blair M'Clenacban and
Patrick Maere, of the city of Philadelphia, merchants,
trading under the firm of Blair M'Glenachan and P.
Moore, and frotn Blair M'Cleiackan in bis separate
capacity j to which, by the laws of the land, all the
joint as well as fcparate property of the said Gentle
men, is, and ought to be, liable. And whereas
it is cleavly and fatisfa&orily afccrtaincd, that mr.
Blair M'denachxn, of the said firm, hjie conveyed
away to mr. John H. Hujlon, his fon-in law, to his
daughter, mills M'Clenacban, and to his son, George
M'Clenacban, several large and valuable real estates,
as well as coufiderable perfenal property, in the city
and county of Philadelphia, in the county of Lancas
ter, in the county of New-Cafll« on Delaware, and
slfewhere, with a view, as it is apprehended, to de
feat the Creditors in the recovery of their just debts.—
This is, therefore, to forewarn all persons whemfo-\
ever, against the purchase from the said 'grantees, or
eithe* as them, of any portion of the said real or per
sonal property, as the most vigorous measures will
without delay be taken to render the fame liable to
i the just demands of the Creditors.
By order of the Creditors.
Thomas Fitvtjimons,
Phihp Nicklin, /
IJaac V.barton, V Committee.
William M'Murtrie, I
Samuel IV. Fi/her, J
PViladelphia, December 17th, 1796. acth;s
THE caution.introduced into the public prints,
warning all pcrfons agaiwft purchasing from the'
grantee«of Blair M'Clenachan, any portion of the
large, real and personal eftatcs he conveyed away to
his fofi-in law and to his children was the result of
a deliberation had upon the fubjeft by a general and
numerous meeting of the creditors as well of Blair
M'Clenachan and P, Moore as of Blair M'Clena
chan individually. It was no more than an execu
tion of that trust confided in the subscribers by
those creditors : a step which it would have been a
breach of duty and honor in them to have omitted.
The very statement of the fact therefore must dif
pcl the imputation that it was either " precipitate
or vindi&ive." It originated in a defile to secure
the property of the debtor as a fund for the pay
ment of his just debts. It was fantfioned by the
advice itt council as a measure ncctJJarj to the fafety
of the creditors. If the advettifement has been
injurious to Mr. M'Clenachan he owet that injury
to his own unjuftiliable conduct, not to the iub
fcrib«r» who have merely pubHfhed the truth itr
terms as mild as .(lie fatt would admit, and who
mean to invelligite in a high court eif justice the
validity of thole purchases of which Mr. M'Cle
nachan so confidently speaks.
The subscribers therefore are bound by a feiife
of duty to the creditors in general to repeat their
caution against ptirchafing of those grantees or
either of them, and to extend the terms of it to a
purchase from any other persons (if such there be)
to whom Mr. M'Clenachan may have made similar
conveyances.
(Signed) T. FITZSIMONS,
Philad. Dec. J I, 1796.
These printers who hive been requested to
publifli the firft Caution, are defirsil to publish this
all®.
Pennsylvania Population Company.
THE Stockholders are hereby not ified, that an ele&ion
for Officers for the ensuing year, will be held at the Com -
pany's Office. No. 53, North Fourth-street, on Wednes
day the nth January next, at 12 o'clock.
By Order of the Board,
SOL. MARACHE, Secretary.
December 31,
THE STOCKHOLDERS are hereby notified that an
election for twelve Dire&ors for the enfuir.g year will be
held a-t the Bank on Monday the 9th of January at ten
o'clock.
Dec. 6.
Waihmgton lottery,
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorised
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fu thousand.
two hundred, and fifty dollar«, for the purpoie of cutting
a Canal through the pity of Waihingtpn, froxi th Po
tomact-o theEaftern Branch Haruour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz 'I Prize of 30,000 dollars, 10,000
I ditto 10,000 - 10,000
7 lad drawn ")
Tickots, each f
.6 ditto 1,000
10 ditto 400
10 ditto 100
S'S di«o jo
S 7jo ditto ' 1 a
To be raised for the Canal,
5850 Prizes,
11650 Slants, not two to a prize,
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
TheCommifiioners ha»» taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid adl for tic punctual payment oi
the prizes.
The drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
delays as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will he given.
% ■ j
>f} 1 W .*r>
*
J
I
t
4
>.'lt i j"
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after the
drawing is finished, (hall be considered as relinquished for
the benefit*f the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed ) NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANTEL CARROLL, o/D
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
.-v\ >.'J
CKjr df- Feb, xi.
CAUTION.
TO THE PUBLIC.
P. NICKLIN,
ISAAC WHARTON,
WILLIAM M'MURTRIE,
SAMUEL W. FISHER.
Bank of North America.
RICHARD WELLS, Cashier,
N° . I
Wm. m. duncanson,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BAURY.'
3 £ 'f r*
Horfcs taken in,
For the Winter Seafsn,
And fed <m clover hay at the Subscribers place, la
ifcile? on the Bristol Road, where good stabling is pro
vided, and great care will b« taken of them
William Bell.
mwfiwrothtf.
o<iw
Nov. §$•;
W3LLTAM M'DOUGALt will open hisfchool on Mon-
day 1 the 31ft inft. at ten o'clock in the morning, at his
Elegant hcv.' Ball Rooms,
In Fourth, between Chefnut and Walnut Streets,
Hours of tuition for young ladies, from 10 to 1 o'cloek
on Mondays, Wednesday, and Friday mornings; and for
young gentlemen from 6 to 9 o'clock on the evening 9 ®
the fame days.
In addition to a number of new cotillions, he means bo
introduce a variety of Scotch Reels.
Note. The frrfV pra&ifnag ball to be on Tuesday c
vening, of November, and to be continued every
Tuesday, durmg the season. t
For terms, &c, enquire at his house, N0.134, Market-*-
street,
Oil. 17
A Manufactory FOR SALE.
A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufaftorv, 'ifuate
in a convenient part of the rity ; the works sirr.olk hew,
on an entirely original conftmttion, and built of the belt
materials, and jnay be set to work immediately. Persons
who wish to purchase, are requeued to applv at No a-73,
South Second S'reet. September 13. t t f tf
l wenty Guineas Reward.
RAN AW AY from the fubferiber on the 23d O&ober,
a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSES; 21 years
old; about 5 feet 8 inches high ; had on a mwed green
coat, with a green velvet cape and oval yellow buttons ;
a striped veil; a pair of daVk spotted pantaloon®, and
whole boots much worn. It is probable he may change
his name and dress. He has been accuflomed to driving
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will be
paid for fccunrig him so that the fubferiber may get him
again, and if brought home all reafonablc charge* paid by
Robins Chamberlaine.
$acton, Maryland, Nov. 10. 14 ini2awtf
Pupil of the celebrate : Mr. Dubois, lat ; Dentist to the
King and Royal Family of Frame, member of ti;e
College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris,
Keeps a complete affortmen't of every thing neceflary
Preservation of the Mouth and Teeth.,
Patent Mineral Teeth, and Human & Ivory Teeth ;
Der.trifice in powder ; Opiate ; excellent Elixir for
fweetenirig the mouth and preserving the teeth —he
also furnifhes Brulhes and foft Sponges.
* # * He lives in Chefnut-ftreet, No. 135, above
Fourth-fireet.
November 26,
RESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in rhe
city of Philadelphia.'
The Subscription Room will be furniThcd with all the
daily papers published in Philadelphia, New-York Bof
r.ori, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com
mercial cuius of Europe—They will he regularly filed
and none p« rinitted to be taken away on any account
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
of Frcnch Liquor; together with the usual refreftiments,
will it all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated witli
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors md the rnofl
approved Malt Liquors from London and breweries.
The Larder will beiupplled with the prime and «arlieft
productions oi the Season.
Large and small Parties, or single gentlemen, may be
accommodated with BreaJ;/afts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hours mofl conv fiient to thcmfelves—a cold Collation is
regularly kept for conveniency, the Billof Fare to be had
at th» bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely turniftied, and
the utmost attention paid to ileaniinefs, and every other
rtiquifito.
Rjchardet will be happy to receive, and
execute the commands of his Frknds, and the Public at
Idrge; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfelf that nothiog on his part fhn.ll be wanting to pre
serve that patronage with which he has been so diftinguilh
in ;iy 'ibnorcd.
t'V-ilatielphia April 19
September 28, 1796.
NOTICE is hereby given, that propofil- will be re
ceived at the office of'the Secretary of the Treasury
until the expiration of the fir ft day r.f March next en
suing, for thefupply of all rations which may he required
lor the use of the United States, from the firft day ot
June, 1797, to the thirty-Srft day of May, 1798, both
days inclusive, at the piaces and within the diftridts here
after mentioned, viz. At Ofwego; at Niagara ; at
lfte; at Sandufky Lake, and on Sandufky
River; at Detroit; at Michiliniackinac; at Fort-Frank
lin, at Pittsburgh ; at Ciiiainudti; at Fort-Hamilton;
at Fort St. Clair; ,at Fort-Jtfl'erfon i at Grenvillc; at
Picquc Town and Loraniies Store; at Fort Adams; at
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance; at any place below Fort
Defiance on the Miami' River to Lake Brie; at Fort
Stsuben ; at Fort Maffac ; at any place from Fert Maffac
to the south boundary of the United States an the river
Miflifippi; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiataiion.,
If supplies (hall be required for any polls or places not
mentioned in this notice, a!l furh supplies fliall he fur
nilhed at prices proportioned tfl those to be paid at the
posts before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed on
between the United States and the Contra&or.
The rations to be supplied are to consist of the fol
lowing articles, viz.
-One pound two ounces of bread #r flour.
One pound two ounces of fourteen ounces of
pork or bacon.
Half a gill of rum, brancft rr whiikcy.
One quart and half a pint of ialt."^
Two quarts of Vinegar, C per hundred rations
Two pounds of Soap, t
One poU'id of Candles, J
The rations are to be futniflicd in fach quantities, as that
there fliall at all times during the said term, be fuffieient
for the confumptionof the troops at Michiliniackinac, De
troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, for the term of fix moatlis in
advance, and at'each of the other posts, for. the term of
at least three months in advance, in good and wholesome
provisions, ifthefame ft all be required. It is to be un
derstood, that the Contractor is to be at the exfence and
rilk of iffuirgthe fuppliss to the troops afeach post, and
that all lolTes sustained by the deprodations of an enemy, or
by means of the troops of the United States, fliall be paid
for at the price of the articl-t captured or destroyed, on
the dcpofitions of two or more persons of creditable cha
ra&crs. and the certificate ol a toniiniffiontd officer, af
certaming the circitmftancfis of the loss, and the amouut
of the ai tides for which oompenfaiioii fhail be claimed
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
s. w. Sc. w.
5t 9 J.
iS,OOO
6,000
4,000
1,000
».75«>
60,008
*6,iso
17 j ,000
DANCING SCHOOL.
Le Breton,
5 UR CEON-DENTIST,
to be uferi forthe
Samuel Richardet
i reaiury Department,
Secretary of the T re*fittj.
Wafliington Lottery.
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may-be purchafc d©r
Kchangtfd for prizes, at the Office, No. 147, Chefuut*
fcreet, where a corre<Si Numerical Book ia-kept for puMic
infpe&ioß. Also Canal Lottery Tickets for Tale or ex
changed for prizes diawn in the Washington Lottery, of
which the 50th and 51ft days returns are received.
£5° Th® Business of a Broker rricd on as usual.
.%* A SHARE in the NEW THEATRE to be fold
on reasonable terms. December 19 ttstf
James Taylor,
No. 3, South FourthJir.eet,
RETURNS h s grateful acknowledgments to hit
Friends and the Public for their' liberal encouragement,
and begs leave to solicit a continuance of their iavors.
He has on hand an cxtenfive assortment of the
Moji Fajhionable GOODS,
And of the bed quality, suitable for the fcafon.
At this shop Gentlemen can be furnifhed withthe fceft
materials, and have them made up in the neafeft and ttiofl
Falhionible manner, and sn the ihorteft notice. He will
thankfully receive any orders, and pay a prompt and
punctual attention, to them.
November 10. us
TO BE SOLD,
A LEASE for fivrn years,/rem the 25 th March next, in tlal
capital and beautiful F called
P R O S P E C T-H I L L,
Situated within one quarter of a mile from the Brandywint
Mills, and halt a mile from the borough of Wilmington.
dwelling house is butlt of itonje, two ftoriec high #
gen tee l y fimftied, and contairufour harififome rooms on
a floor, besides an entry, withcapital garrets, and convenient
cellars It is generally thought to command the most •-
profpe& of the Delaware, from the fowee of that
liver to the Capes, Phis profpeft ia greatly ernb< llifhed by
a full view of avail body ol meadow, through which the
Chrilliana and Brandy wine creeks are seen wrnding in beau*
tiful meanders. Near the house are a Kitchen, a fpaoioua
!*>nc flable and hay loft : a barn, a carriage house, milk
ftoufe, &c. wild a well of as pute water as any on the conti
nent. The garden contains an acre and quarter ol land, 2-
Wounding with iruit, and particularly with peach trees, of
tne very belt kind, brought irom Marylarni, anrt in full bear
ing. There is, moreover, on the place.- a young, apple
orchard beginihft to bear, and leveral old treesthat produce
ibundantly, besides cherry and othei ornamental trees, jn
preat numbers. The'larm consists of near fixtj acros of land,
of good quality, and cle'ar of incumbrances, except raxe«,
twentv ot which are now in excellent cfover and timothy,
and ten will be ready tor lowing next spring. A re
lidenae ot uearly 8 y<- jr a has convinced the fubferiber that
situation is remarkably healthy, The great poll road
from Philadelphia 10 the Southward runs within seventy
yards of the house In a word, 1 the beauties and conveni
ence of this situation cannot be enumerated in an advertile
merit. and when examined, will probably command the at
tention of any pei son who is desirous of living atone of"the
most elegant country feats on the continent. The purehafer
may enter on the pcemit s next spring, or pnhaDs, this-rall,
it application be immediately made to Doctor NICHOLAS
WAY, in Philadelphia, to Do&or WH R 1 ON, en th«
premises, or, in hi# ablence, to Mr. GEO AGE IRUI i T,-t»i
Wilmington*
A quantity of excellent Hay, Grain in the ground, fomc
Stocky Sec, may be had by the purehafer at the time of Cale.
Ffn v. 7 eodtf
Cit) ct uVv'ainington.
SCHEME of'the TOTTERY, No. If,
FOR iHE IMPROVEMENT 0 I THS.
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent ) 20,000 dollars, & }
dwelling-houfa, ) cafe 30,000, are } '° 0#
1 ditto is,'ooo & calk 15,000 40,000
1 dittd 15,000 & cafb 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & cefb 10,000 20,000
l ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,00®
1 ditto 5,000 & calh 5,0*0 10,000
x cath prize of 10,000
% do. 5,000 each, are * io,oo«
10 do. r,ooo - - ' 10,000
20 do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. 100 • - io,oo» (
ibo do. 50 - - 10,000
4co do. 2f- - - 10,000 /
1,000 do. ro - so,opn.
15,000 do. 10 • 150,000
16,739 Prizes. '
32,2fi 1 Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity of
Tickcts, he prize of 40,000 dollars will be the l a stf drawn
ticket, and the AO,coo the last but one :
And approved nates, fecurin'g payment in either monsy
ir prizes, in ten i}ays alter drawing, will be recehed for
any number not less than 30 tickets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of the pri
vate buildings to be ere&ed in the City of Wafliington—
Two beautiful designs are already fele<fted for the entire
fronts on two of the public squares; from these prawings
it ispropofed toeredl two centreand fourccrner buildings,
as soon as pollible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventursrs, in
the mannerdefcribed in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery.
A nett deduction of five per cent, will be made to defray
the neceiTary ncp»nfes of printing, '&c»<«a-.d the furplu*
will be made a part of die fund intended for the National
University, to be erefled within the city of Washington,
The Drawing will commence as soon as the ticksts aeo
old off.- -The money prizos will be payable in thirty day»
after it is finifhed ; and any prize* for which fortunate
numbers ate not produced within twelve months after th»
drawing is clofsd, arc to be confidared as given towards
the luni for the University ; it being determined to fettle
the whole business in a year from the ending of the drawn
ing, and to t f ake up the bonds given as security.
The real securities given for the payment of the Prize,,
are held by the President and twe Directors of the Bsnk
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
mount ol the lottery.
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of
the late Commiliioners aflifted in the management of the
Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake this arduous talk
a second time on behalf of the public ; a fufficieut num
ber of these having kindly accepted, 1t u hoped that th«
friends to a National University and the other federal ob»
je<sts may continue to favor the design.
By accounts received from the different parts of the
Continent as well as "from Europe, where the tickete
have been sent for sale, the public are affuted that the
drawing will fpuudily coramenae, and that the carc and
caution unavoidably neceiTary to insure a fafe diff ofal of
the tickets, has rendered the Iflor- fufpttifion indispensable,
SAMUEL HLODCET.
Tieketsmay be had at the Bank of Colombia ; of
James-Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter Giknar., Botlon ;
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Welis'
Cooper's Ferry. co
PRINTED BY. JOHN FENNNtO t
—No. 119—
CHFSNUT-STREST.
[Pric? 2;;jht Dollars p«t Annum.}
tthf
mwf