the Daily Advertiser.
_ _ MONDAT EVENING, FEBRUARTI3, 1.797. _ [row* XI-
Afc? -5m T 583. j _____ — , — — r- —« *"
'r- ' ~ I r I .» /-» T/n IN/T nU #\/vnr>tT Or> rl 7 AIYW7 A /I
A of Brandy, *
FIRST & id proof,
Gin, ?f 4th proof, in pipes Ca
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhdi
Old Hock, in cases of 40 dozen each
Glifs Tumblers, in pints and half-pints
Window Glass, in boxes> of different lizes
Haz: nuts, in sacks
Whiting
Jc ijpunifl) Brown J
For Sale by PETER BLIGHT.
January 4J_ w „ $ D
Peunfylvania Population Company.
NOTICE is hereby given, to such Share-holders as
as hav« not paid their affefTments on theirlaares—to w;
pay the fame immediately to the Secretary of the.Compa- dr
»y, at the Company's Olfice, No. 53 north Fourth-street,
Philadelphia. They are further infprmed, that in default ral
of paying the fame within thirty days from the 4th of l J e- ev
bruary, mftant, thdfeveral forfeitures will be ftri«Sl'ty ax
aiiteu, in conformity to the 21ft article of affociatioß. M
By order of the Board, a
SOL. MARACHE, Secretary a s,
Feb, a. 4— $3» be
This Day is Publilhed,
Br 810 REN and MA DAN, w
And to be Sold at their Printing-Office, in Doclc
ftrett ; by M.Carey, No. 118, Market-street ;
Thomas Bradford, No. 8, South Front-street, and
George Doug]aft, No. 2, South Third-street,
(Price, neatly bound., two dollars)
AN ENQUIRY Ja
Concerning Political Justice, I<
And its Influence on Morals and Happi«efs, w
By William Godwin.
THE ceputation of this work is already well efta
b!rfh«H*-Puropr—lt is hardly aiecefliry for. an Ame- '
rican editor to fay more than barely to mention, that
the Enquiry concerning PcJitieal Justice has ever
iince its publication been a favorite performance with
the friends of republican government. The stile is
pure, nervous, and elaflical; the ideas are strongly Vj
marked by aw original vein of thinking ; and, amongst
a multitude of other just and striking paflages, the
author's delineation of the peculiar infelicities iefepa- C
rable from , the condition of a King, may be pointed
' ®ut as a'molt masterly specimen of philosophical dif
xjuifition. The late# London edition of this work ar
fells in this city at four dollars and an half. re
January 24 djtaw2w th
M*». G RATT'A N
Refpc6ifully informs her friends, and the public in m
general, that on Tuesday the iothday of January, tli
ir.c proposes opening, at No. 39, North Sixth
ftrert,
A Linen and Muslin Warehouft.
Bo<?< vluflins, from 6/3 to 12ft I per yard
Jaconet ditto, from 8/8 to 9/8 per yard
Str ped ditto, from 7/10 to lofto per yard
Fine Coffee*
Tambour* d Book Muslins, from 13/9 to yard
rviuttin, from 11/3 to 15/ per yard ;
Sfveeting Muslin _
jaconet muslin Handkerchief*, from 4/3 to 6/ per hdkf. J c
iimfi' ITinclkcrch iMs-fr«m 5/3 to iq/V> per hdkf. w
Muslin coior'd anc*border*d Handkerchiefs ai
Dacca Handkerchiefs fe
Tambour'd Cravats from los& to 11fit ei
Pocket Handkerchiefs w
Cambric, from 11/3 to 16/3 per yard \m
Tabjp Cloths "
Huckabuck Towelling -
Women's Cotton Hose, from to 13/ per pair
Dimity from SJIO to 6fn
Men's Silk Hose j
TambourM muslin Handkerchiefs from 11/11 to 1 jft 1
Irish linens for G.entieir en's Shirts, from S/5 t0 9/7
And a variety of other articles.
N. B. Order* received for all kinds of ready made
JLisen, Gentlemen's Shirts, ruffled or plain, Cravats,
Pockct Handkerchiefs, »xc. &c.
Houfliolri Linen, See &c.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 3 I-l dollars. , J
A full ruffled ditto, 4 dollars.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 5 dollars.
A full rulEed itto 6 dpllars ..
A plain ijvrt, made and m^fked, 5 i-i dollars.
A ihII ruffl d ditto 7 dollars.
A plain shirt, /nsule and mark'd, ,6 dollars.
A full ruffled ditto 712. 1
A plain (hirt, made and mark'd, 6 i-z dollars. i
A very fine ruffled ditto 8 dollars.
Linen included.
January 13. §
g A M j L L A,
Or APifture of Youth.
By the authored of Evelina and Cccilia, to be com- '
prised in five volumes, at Half a dollar each, payable s
or. delivery—Printed at New-York, by Mr. John f,
Bull-
CONDITIONS.
I. Handfonve, neat type, new, is em
ployed.
H v A volume, stitched in blue paper, is intended
to be publilhed every a weeks, till the five are com
pleted; ti.e firft and second are come to nand, and the
third is hourly expected. Subscriptions are received;
and Hooks may be had of J. GRMROO, No.
Chefrmt-ltreet-
Mrs. D'Arblay (late Miss Burney) the celebrated
ayihorefs of this inimitable work, needs no eulogy,
*0 add t.) the laurels Ihe has already acquirer' in the
(literary world, l'he itrength of imagination and ele- j
■ gance of style, diiplayed in Evelina and Cecilia, -will e
fufliciently lecommend to every reader of taste and \
judgment, the perusal of Camilla. > f
It may not be improper tp add, that the Queen of r
England, after having perused this interesting pu'.di
cation, presented Mrs. D'Arblay with a thouf«nd '
pounds sterling, as a teftimon.y of her approbation of
the work. '
January 25 Wyf (
For Sale,
At the Office of the Editor of tht Gazette qf the
United Statej,
A few copits OF
" An account of the Receipts and
Expenditares of the United States, for the year 1795."
A PARCEL OF VERY FINE
St. Croix Sugars and Rum,
JAMAICA SPIRITS, ami
LACUIAA HIDES, I
for Sale by
fcb. 7. —|iw JAMES TARD.
landing,
AT Walnut-street wharf, from on bo&rd the Ihip Peg- y
erv, captaia Elliott, from A 1
VINDE GH.A.VE, or White Claret, in Hhdsand Qr. _ nen
Calks excu
RED CLARET, in Bhds
Ditto in cases of «4.and 30 bottles each
Green and Souchong TEAS, in quarter chelts
For sale by
Rundle Leech, ,i rer
Nn. 9 vValnut.ftreet. iwl
, Februa»y 6 mwf "
' Tbe Elephant, b« h
Now exhibited, was bought lot Tco ( houuiid .
Dollars. , .
He is 3 years old, 6 feet high, growing to iß'l«et. '
He eats 150 weight a-Jay, and drinks a bairel o.
water ;he has drank fc.me days forty bottles of porter, [5
drawing the corks witV his trenk. Pjin
He is pcrfedUy inoftenlive; travels loose, at the —
rate of five miles an hour, and t»tbe greatest curiosity
ever brought to .his Comment.
He is to be leen 'till the ijth of January, in r ,
Market-street between Third and Fourth-streets, it j
. a quarter of a dollar, that eye. f one may fee him-— long
after which time the former piiee of half a dollar will hind
be resumed.
He will leave Philadelphia it So on as the weather ctree
will permit. ]
December 3 1 d
A G A R D.
If Mor.fieur G. H. Souls,
Who left Bordeaux the aoth Julie last, and armed
at Boftoi tbout the middle of Atsguft, in the fchocfler
Jane, is in Philadelphia, he is requeUed to call on R
Joseph Anthony & Co. No. 5, Chefnut-ilreet. who
will give him forae information of importance -
December 24, 1796. ? bcti
co Dollars Reward. u «
_ ' that
LOST, last evening, hctweun eight and nine o'clock, pur]
as the fwbfcriber was going to his house at the Falls of of c
Schuylkill, from the houfc of his father»iu-law, Mr. and
Francis Stewart, in Sugar-alley, between Sixth and Se- ; " !,t
venth-ftreets, eVove Market-street,
A black POCKET-BOOK, ;
■ Containing 1190 Dollars, in Bank' Notes ion
From 5 to lOQ Dollars each,
One of which was of the Branch-Bank of New-York,
and several papers, such receipts and orders. —1 he
road the fubferiber fook, was the Falls road, croffingat j
the Upper Ferry. I
Whoever finds the above Pocket-Book, and returns it e(j(
to the fubferiber at the Falls, or to bis father-in-law, LtLid
mr Stewart, living in Sugar Alley, lhall be entitled to the
t the above reward, paid by pub
.JAMES HAFFY b,ir
Feb. 3 - L_ pU '
J —-—— — — pro
Clocks and Watches.
LESLIE and PRICE, g
No. 79, MaRKET-STRBET, PHILADELI>HI/I, ( rjc '
HAVE IMPORTED, by the late arrivals from l!le
London, 1 aflortrnent »f tVA R&ANT~ Ji D Lh?
IVA I'CHES, e«nfil. l ing of horizontal, capp'd afld <ii(j
jewel'd Gold Watchen, with fti.oKdr, of f iperior |
workmanlhip and tlegauce ; also capp'd and jewel'd 6ei
and plain Gold Watches ; capp'd &jeweird, capp'd, J
seconds, day of tlii month, and plain Silver Watches ; —
eight day & chamber elegant Free/. Clock..
with marble frames; eight day and'thirty hi.»r, brass
works, &£, , j
Decembet aa, ■ 17of. d^tm
JT FOR SALE,
7 HE SHIP MAR r,
S A MUI^L PARKER, Maste»,
SiS&iewSTwf hundred tons burthen. Apply to
. JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the is not fold in* few days, (he will tak
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
o<£lober 31- _______
Elegant Uruffels Sc Turkey' Carpeting, -
For falc by George Wobfoi*, No. 25, South Third-street.
Deer tiHe.r 15. dtf
Peter Borger,
No. 123 Mulberry-Street, ~~ p a ,
HAS impotted bv the brig Tryal, cap'.ain Robert Knox,
and the Good F:it'r><h, contain Srtiith, from Hambuij,
yooe Empty French botilef,
»oo do depiijobns,
946 do. 'filled with beans and leatils,
** — too H«nd Engine*,
100 Ps. 11 la*,
aoo, White & c»! !$ — p(
ALIO
Several boxes with decanters 3 .d 'umblers, half pint, pint
e and quarts —omr invoicr of Nurcwbeig tpys —containing fa
fnuff-boxes, los, &c.
100,000 Quills of different qualities,
150 Boxes Window Glass 7-9.9-*!
—ON HA.KJ* —
10 Qr. Casks Sherry Wine,
j 4 do, Biandy, del
200 bell Holland Gin, A.
200 Boxes Re 3 Wine, containing bottles each, Sal
One bale of Flannels afTorted > ?nd dc
» 30 Ps. Cloth, by
t Frelh Prunes in boxes and barrels.
February 7. tu fe fr Sa
( Davis's Law Book Store,
Nn 3,3, HIGH'STREET. ,
GEORGE DAVIS announces to hit proteffional friends, tu)
t and the Gentlemen of the Law, generally, through the
j" Union, that his late importation ol BOOKS is now arrang. iat
" ed, and ready for Sale, from a single volume to an entire li- j
d brary, .without any advance upon his former exceeding low 00
prices, whieh for several years paA have in so diftinguilhed a
if manner recommended iliem'to nolice. I '®
Printed Catalogues combining the msft extealive coljhc. r '
j tion cf the latelt Englilh and lnlh Editions ever imported 1*
.. In :o tbis country, arc p>J>liihed, and will he delivered graua' th
on application.
Orders addrcfled to G. D. in writing from any difiance f]
(hall be punitually attended to. tr
A number of TRUNKS for Sale. d,
rtLSO, TO BE LET, a,
e A convenient lOffj near Market Strret Wharf.
rw.<. tuiltfjw a |
, THESU BSC RIBE R'" «
WISHES to afecrtain, whether a certain .EDWARD h
_ NEVILL, by trade a Stone-Cutter, or Briok-Layer, r
who quitted Ireland i». 1753, or 1784, ami came into f
this Country, ("'tis fuppoi'ed to Philadelphia) about 3
four years since, be 'King or dead. As this intelli
gence is of thehigheft i.nportanee, it will he thankful
ly received, by GEO. DAVIS,
No. 313, Hijh-flreet I
De«emhfr JJt- v, &.f »m
To the Citizens of Philadelphia.
I ONCE more teme forward to trouble you with a Sub j
fcriptbn. Read Mr. BAatow's lat'er to your govern- t
' snent, rehting to the American Captive, at Algiers, and
eitcufe itt.
OJV MQNDAT NEXT. • i
My Eljphanlt wdl be exhibited for thu Benefit of those
raoU iint'jiunaf c follow-fntferers and brothers. The price
will beojtiuiial; but not lefe than 1-4 ot a dollar —chil- I
dren anc servants at half price I lhall »tw«d myfelf aid Opt
I will w-Jt 011 two ®r trore of the citizens 'render«d to
Their . --atry, and'requ.tt th -m tt> be that day at the place
of the *shefc«tian. On PaeTday price if admiflion will
be half a dollar. BT. MAitV.
I Tht other Printers are rwjuefted t. puldilh the above.
February is ' 3t
" '■ ■ ■ ■ i. ■ 1 "
■ A Principal Book-Keeper _J
> IS wanted in one of the Public Oihccs. Enijuira of the
Pinter. February to §6c
t I
five Dollars Reward. M b a
& T OST, about te:i days since, a linall SPANISH OOG, Te:
t X. J white, dappled with yellow—sharp ears, small head, Dii
- long hair, inclining to curl ; occalianally limps on one
II hind leg ; answers to the name ef Damon. Whoever 1 C (
will bring him to Mo. 104, corner of Spruce and 3d I Jai
r streets, {hall receive the above reward. I Co
February 9 tf&t3t I VV.
1 _j I
SWAN N'S )
.Riding School, Horse Acautmy 1$ Infirmary, 1 ]
, Adjoining the Public s»qaare. Market Street. - | —
\ T. SWANN
i RETURNS huQncere thanks totbofe gentlemen I
0 he has been empltoyed; hisTefidence la this City, and I
flatten himleiithar the TucceU o{ in the numerous, J
obstinate aadj daogerous diseases in in which he has I
- been confultcd, together with his moderate charges, will fe- 1
ure their fu:urfcfavors and I
He.now begs letve to inform M»cm and the public at large I
thathr Ipacious a«4 commodious premilcs, ereftcd for the j
t, purpdes zbovedeTcrtbed arc open for the reccptioo of pupils I X)i
>f of cither lex, who wish to beiqftrudted in the Art bf Ridinjr, I %)i
r. and the right method of governing their horses, so as to ride j
them with cafe, and lafety—their horses will be 1
carefully and expeditiouily broke, for every purpose, and I
made obedient tot he will of the riders ; the natu<«l powers I
whicti are up in them, will be unfolded by art, calling J ;
>S forth uniformity of ipotion, and giving to mat noble animal I
all those beauties of a&ion which providence has so bounti- |
{ tully beflo>vtd on them. |
' Also, at every disorder to which the horse i-s |
le liable will be treated according to the miles of art, confirmed i
b) Uag and repeated experience. I po
l'he utility of the above lnifituiioo has never been qoeftion- I sou
lC ed, that it has loog been wanted in thi> city, every gentleman's j
Itud will[manifell, and T. Swamn the ft»ft ot j
-o the vetertnary art, folicitt and relies upon the fuppoitof thai I
public (which he is ever anxious in fetving) to enaDle him to I R<
biingtt to perfection. The idea of a tubfcription for that I
uurpofehas bceu hinted by feveial gentleman, Wilh to |
promote -the amount ol each fubferipiiop t© j
be relumed by fei vices in any of the departments he profeffes, I IV
ygretable to the rate of charges stated in his hand bill. Such L
fubfcripiion ispovy open, and the fignaturesot many |
a ole gentle me n aiiea-iy obiained. He therelore injorms hi? j
friends an«i futh Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has not j
v ' the honor of being known, that be dial! in a few days take J
tjifi liberty of waiting Upon tKcm and folicking their support I
d and prot diou. ' j
>r NH. Horses arc properly prepared for tbofe Ladiei and J
d with 10 be ih(tru6ted.
i, 51 tthAf. 1
; . i ■ , ■ ■ ■ j
L ; James M'Alpin, !
No. J, South FourthJlreet, J G
* RETURNS h's grateful acknowledgments to his jft
- Friends and the Public for th*ir liberal cbcouragement, Jn.
and begs le«ve to solicit a continuance of their favors. 4 A
He has on hand an exteufive ajTortment of the I (;
■ Molt Fajhionable GOODS, I
And of the bell quality, fuitahle for the feafoD. j '
At this (hop Gentlemen can be furmlbed withtke I
mrteriah> and have them made up in the neatest and mofl j "
Faihion i'de manner, and «n the fliortcff notice. He will I _
c thankfully receive any orders, and pay a prompt and I
pun-flual attention to them. I x
November io. "^ 8
r ? . : ■ j
:t - All Persons having Demands ,
Ag aiitf! the Eftnte of the late Thomas Franklin, 1
decrffed, .are defircd to bring in their accounts lor I
settlement ; and those indebted to make immediate I
payment, to ISRAEL PLEASANT 4 !, ) p
'*» WALTER vRANKI.IN, or V ,
8" SAMUEL R. FRANKLIN, ) 1 K
January 14th, 1796. eoiw
, — j
PROPOSALS, b
For carrying the Mails of the United s
i« States, |J
"g On the following Poji Roads, will be rectived until .
thefirjl Jay of Afhrch ri'xt inclujive • I-y
r. Fro .iCh irleil.jii, S. C. by Jackfonboro" and Coofa- 1 |
hatchy, to SavaPrtah, twice a week. Receive the vlail I■]
at Charkfton every T* Jlday and Friday by 6, P. M. and I
deliver it as Savannah the next Friday and Monday, by 8 I
A. M. Returning, receive the Mail at Savannah evfyl
Saturday, by 6, P.M. and Weduefdiy by 6, A. M. and I
deliver it at Char teflon the next Tuesday and Friday |
by noon.
Propofah for tbii rouU will be reerived by tbt pofl-mafltr at I
r Savannah.
a. From Coofaiiutchy to Iteaufort once a week-
Receive the mail at Coofahatchy every Thursday by 6, I
*. m. and deliver it at Beaufort by noon on Friday. Hi- I
turning, leave Beaufort every Friday by 3, r. m. and arrive 1
' |at Cgofahatchy on Saturday by 8, a. m. I j
[ Propolals-for carrying the mail on this route will be rf- j
1 oeived by the poll-maftcr at Beaufort.
Note I. The PQll-mafl.er General may alter the times I
for the arrival and departure of the mails at any time da- I
lee. ring the continuance of the contra&j, he previously ftipu- I
i t( j lating an adequate campenfation for any extia expence I
»tis that may be oc'oafioned thereby.
Note 1. For every hours delay (unavoidable accidents I
ince excepted) in arriving after the times prescribed by con- I
trail, the contractor shall forfeit one dollar, and if the I
delay continue uutil the departure of any depending mail I 1
an additional forfeiture of five dollars shall be incurred. I
Note 3. Should any person making proposals desire an I
alteration of the times of arrival and departure abovefpe- I
cified, h« mud Hate the alteration desired and the price 1
r, _ he will carry the mail for with and without such alte- l
ration. J
i rer > Note 4. The contraiSi are to be in operation on the J
nt " firft day of April next and to continue until the 30th of J
'Oft September in the yearjßoo. 1
clli- JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
ftj- Fuji Mtj/la Central.
General Poll Office, ) 1
:t Philadelphia, Jan. JJ.J797-J
n Vsn. if. a»w6w. I
j Mahogany and Logwood.
A Cargo for Sale on board of the ihip captain
Gelfton, jult arrivfcd from Honduras.
Apply to
PHILIPS, CRJMOND & Co.
February 9 $
JUS T A.'.AiVED,
By the Danifii ihip Friendlfcip, captain Matzen, from
Oporto,
Red Port Wine,
In Pipe*, Hajfhcais an<l Charter-Caflcs,
150 Boxes of Lemons,
(For Sale by
Philips, Cramond & Ct,
February 9 }
Red Clover Seed.
Frelh red Clever Seed of th* best quality, in bagaaf
5 bushels each '
Madeira wine in pipes, fit for immediate use
Teneriffc wine in pipes, hogsheads and quarter cafits
Ditto do. of firft quality, for the use of priyit*
families
{ Coffee in hogsheads ,
I Jamaica spirits
I Connecticut fojp in fmatl boxe»
Window glass and Spanifli fegars, and
1 Two trjnks of best patent, plain and ribbfd silk lu»4
1 cotton hqCerv, for file by
\ ' JOHN CRAIG.
February I. wff&mtf
J For Sale,
By George Defchamps, No. 91,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels
and half barrels
: I Ditto Herring and Mackarel.
J S noaked Hoc ring in barrels and kegs
j Ditto Salmon, by the ;U«en or fingleaoc
Dry Codfifh, from one to fitty kentals
I Fine and caarfe Salt
Nova-Scotia and French Plaster of Paris, in the ftant
and ground, for manure and ftue«o-wotk
! | December i tthicf
i ' TO BE SOLD,
■ 1 The Time of a smart, afti»e, young
J Negro Wench,
1 ! BETWEEN 13 and lij years of age, andjufl had the fm»ll
I pox. For tenuis, apply at Mr. AM
. I south Front-ttreet, No. 311, below AJmond-ftre«.
.1 Fcb.mry 7
J Mas. G rattan
' I Refpe&fwlly informs the Ladie6 and Gentlemen of thf
t I ' City, that the 4th
; LADIES' CONCERT
', 1 IVill ie on TUESDAY, the 14th day 0/ February
i l at the Jijfcmbty-Roam.
' j * Act I.
Overture, ...... ftcytf.
I Scutch ftalldi, Harp, Mrs. Ghattan,
'* I Clarionet Concert*,
Glee,
d J 4c r 11.
Ltjfon, Plant Forte, Mrs. G»attam, Cltmcnti,
I Stng, • - - - - - iacchini,
Ouurtttto, . Plfyel,
Gtce, - - - - - " iDauby.
| Mrs. Grattan iKgs ljcave ta inforsa the Ljdies and
] Gentleman, that the i'ubfcription-book is at h»r houft
is I No North Sixth-street, for the reception of ihol'ji
t, I names who wi(h to honor her witk their commands.—
j A fubfeription for eight nights j6 dollars, including a
I Gentleman and Lady's ticket, each transferable —
I Half fubi'cripJ ions S dollars, including onp ticket.—*
I Single ticket a dollars.
ft I *4* The Concert to begin at half past fix ; and at
half past eight, the tnufic -will attend for the Ball.
•II I February il ; ' 1 gt
Frejh Garden, Grass and Flower-Seeds,
Roots, &£ r ,&C.
I This day linding from the Clip Eagle, captain Fofdick,
from London,
' n ,\ And FOR SALE by
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE,
I Corner of Walnut and Sccond-ftreets,
u- A mnji capital and txtenfive Ajfortment of
. GARDEN, GRASS and FLOWER-SEEDS,
ROOtS, &c. See.
Among which arc,
I Five kinds Asparagus Three kinds CrelTes
I Four Berecole Twelve Onioß
I Twenty-five Beans Thirteen Radiih
D six Beets Fifteen Turnip
I Eleven Brocoli Fiftee® Peas
~ Twenty-fix Cabbage Six Savoy
" 1 Six Carrot Four Parfniji
I Three Cauliflower! Twenty-thre* Melon
"a- I Five ' Celeryf Twenty-one Lettucc
I Ten Cucumber:
id I Coaimon and lemon Thyme
8 I Curled leaf and sprigged Parsley
' y I Pot Marygold Pot Marjorum
nd I Balm Thyme Mangel Wurtrel
ay I Leek Kail Shallots
Rape Seed Rye Grass Saint Foin Luccrne
at I Red and white Clover Timothy, Bcc. <ec.
With a curious colle£lion of the moll esteemed
FLOWER-SEEDS and ROOTS,
I Being the moil extensive ever imported into this city.
I The above are from a capital Seedsman in London, and
ve I are warranted freft and good.
I Printed catalogues may be had by applying as above.
I Dec. 17. S
ics I FOR SALE, BY
Philip Nicklin & Co.
I"',r ■?»-<*
[its I 17 Tubs Quicksilver
>n- I a Chcfts Bjndanno Handkerchiefs
he I A few chests Manchcfter Goods, well a&orted ia Cor
tail I duroys, Thicksets, Ginghams, Muflinets, Dimities, &c.
ed. I 3 Trunks black Sewing Silk
an I ISo Crates Queen's Waie, well a{forte4
pe- | 10 Tons Sheet Lead
ice j \ N ails assorted fiat and iharp points
Ite- | London Partiular 7 Madeira wine in pipes and hogf
-1 I India Market j heads
the] 40 Pipes and 10 HogflieadsTeneriffe Wi*
of | 10 Hogflseads choice Port Wine
I 7 Tierces Snake-Root
I a 6 Calks yellow Paint
9 Boxes and It Bnndles writing Slates
I I Box Ink Stands and Note Presses
I 14 Bales Sail Canvass aflorted, No. Ito S
f. J Abruary If. mw&f^fI — —,
CONGRESS or ths UNITED yTATES.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Monday, January 16 —Continued.
Mr. .Harper said, he should not have risen a fe
eond time, if he had not been prevented by the lals
nefs of the hour when he before addressed the com
mittee, friim mem-toning a few things which hf thot
neceflary to be ooticed. He should net, he laid,
. trWible the committee with a re capitulation of any
thing be had brfore said ; nor should he answer a
ny objections which had been made to his plan.,—
That wauld be more pioper at another time, if any
should be made which he might think it neceflsry
to attend to.
He had Hated a variety «f objtf&s which wenld
produce large films more t+ian was now called for.
He had also shewn that the duty had.greatly increa
sed : and that notwithstanding the additional duty
which bad in the interim been increase of
duty proved the augmentation of the coHfvimpttoii
to have been veiy coniiderable.
ivlr. H. then went into a particular (latement of
the dutits arWing from ea'eh article upon which he
proposed an advance, shewing what they had pro
duced in the years 1793, 1794 and 1795, with the
drawbacks and net produce, with other pariicu.
lars ; but as these have been already stated, though
not so particularly as have been drawn our, yet
fuftciently so "we presume for the ibfarmatien of
our readers, we (hall not again go into the detail.
Mr. Harper said the objeftlons wliich had been
urged againfl indire& taxes, preved too much j
they proved that they should be takeoff ihoge
ther from. commerce, and laid wholly or land ; for
it the ptopifed tax were to be laid on land, there
would still rcwain five millions dependent on com
merce, which would not be less liable to deltrudtion.
The'duties which he prOposed to lay, nar. H. said,
rould be vefy ealily hereafter transferred. A system
of dircift taxation might bt ,• hut in the na
ture of experiment ; and as it was uncertain, a great
part of the revenue should not reft upon it; but if at
any time commerce v/m operated upon, a part of the*
duty might be transferred. They had been t«ld, he
said, that our revenue might be in dafcger from the
Trench or £nglifh ; but, he would ask if we had not
been pillaged by the English, by the French and by the
Algerines ? Yet, under all these circumitanees the reve
-Bne had increased. He believed a direct war could n»t
have a worse effed> ; for then, probably, their proper
ty would only be destroyed by one power. Why then,
he said, were they told of the uncertainty of our reve
nue 'besides, they were in the fitaation, and how could
they be got out-of it ?
It did not require the learning and ingenuity of the
gentleman from I}eifiifylvania to tell them the merchant
did not pay the revenue. The peqple were the payeri.
The merchant got an advantage by the tax, on /gcouut
of which he enhanced the price »f his goods. Com
jnerce received new vigour and spirit from this tan
He hoped, therefore, they'fhould not resort to a tax so
inconvenient and impraflicable as a laad tax, until they
tad examined the fubjeft a little more, because he saw
fource# from which the money might be drawn in a s
manner more equally.
As to the neceflity of additional revenu", no state
ments were -to prove that. The gentleman
from Maflachufetts had shewn how they might dedu&
about aoo,eoo dollars; but what was this if it could
be saved ? The necessity was admitted da: all hands, ex
cept by that gentleman.
Jft. H. said, if the plan which he had ih view, should
not have the efTeft, he would join hand arrd heart with
-those who wished tjiretfl taxes. He wished to fee them
large i he wished to pay the deht because it was a con
tinual fubjeil of anathema, lie would go to two mil
lions of dollars, if neeell'ary, and what share of it might
go towards the public debt ; not that he thought it bore
heavy upon them, but because a fubjedl of discontent,
cavil and invective.
Mr. Gallatin said, the gentleman from Maryland
(Mr. Varnum) had stated to* them that there-was no
necessity for laying a revenue equal to what had bsen
contemplated. The gentleman fiom S. Carolina, just
fat down, on the contrary had told them there was the
peceffity to,the greatest extent. Yet, he said, if thev
were to draw any deductions from his calculations,
they would be that there was no want of further re-ve
nue ; as the document upon which he had grounded
his arguments was aftatement exhibiting the rmounts
of drawbacks paid upon the dutiable articles exported
from the United States in 1793, '794 and 1795, in
which was slated in one column the amount of duties
received, and in the next, the amount of the drawbacks
paid: for instance, take the addition of 1795, viz. the
amount received in 1794, and i; will be found 8,5X8,382
dollars : if this w ere really so, tnfteadof being about
fix millions, as estimated by the Secretary of the Trea
sury, it was clear they needed not to go into a calcu
lation about raifir.g fi'efh revenue.
The faifl was, Mr. G. laid, he believed the gentle-
S. Carolina (Mr. Harper) had not fuiTici
ei.t'.y attended to the ftatetne it in qneftion. Ti.e a
mou ut of duties there stated, though duties receiveubic,
verc duties accredited, .and not dutieJ actually receiv
ed, upon goods imported.
We know alio, said Mr. G. that the amount of re
■venne as stated by the gentleman from N. Jcifey ( Mr.
Hcnflerfon.) was eight- millions ; but liable to great
drawbacks, bo h on Wcft-india snd English ijocds.
Mr. G. said he did not mean to follow the genrttrnan
from S. Carolina (ivlr- Harper) into any of the details
v-hieh he had stated refpe6iing the revenue ariftng from
imports ; frfr though he believed him altogether mif
tiken in them, yet the principle was the fame. The
»i"ftiou was, "—tether the revenue wanted should be'
railed by advancing the duty on imports, or by a airedl
tax.
It was necessary, however, before he proceeded any
further, to notice what had fallen from the gentleman
from Maflachufetts (Mr. Varnum) as far as related to
the aflual revenue and expenditure. He agreed with
that gentleman that the revenue was Ttated too low,
and the-expenditure tco lifgh, by the secretary of liie
tieafury, oh two articles, viz. ujion goods inipcited,
and the military establishment. 1b his report 011 the
fulye&of diieft taxation, he had .calculated ' be receipts
of the revenue to the 31ft December 1795. The
ground up«n which the gentleman from Matla.hufetts
went was to calculate the revenue for 1796 ; and it was
ti tie, that the receipts for that year had confidcrably ex
ceeded the former ; but the only question was, which
was the best gr. und for a permanent calculation ! It
wa»difficult to determine ; but, be believed, in gene
fal, there was no reason to believe the highest cal
culation u oul.l bethe real revenue v.ben a peace took
place in Europe.
The gentleman from S. Carolina, had even suppo
sed a war could noti affe£l our imports ; lie would leave
him in the happy idea ; but Mr. G. fakl,' he wai not
afraid of war, he hiiped inoft ardently for a state of
pca> wh tb he drubred not would ta'te p'aet, and
when it did lake place, the confequcnte would be a re
duclien of our revenue. The ilUpttitiou of
the documents he had mentioned would shew that the
high price of our exports, ;he quantity of European
importations, and thf great amount of Weft lu lis pro
ductions, were the causes of the high receipts at the
Cuftom-h»ufe. And the moment a pence took place,
there would be a failure iti the exports, we should be
deprived of the W'eft-lndi.l carrying trade, it our
exports were less, our imports rnuft also he left. In con
lequence of the wealth brought inttftlu . country by
the European war, we had been enatled to confumc
an extraordinary quantity of these pisduflinns ; but
the moment a peace tor k place, a certain defalcation
in our revenue will be the confequeice. To what a
mount this might be, no or.e coildte'd.
On this ground, Mr. G. said, it was morejrudent to
take tht ioweft than tlie high«ft calculatior ; and he
thought the secretary of the treasury hail 00,e lu> duty
as a public officer by so aiding. He was right in taking
1795 itftead of 1796 ; becaule taking the amount as a
permanent revenue, it vnas the beft'ground. It was
true, there was another item which the secretary had
ftateci, -which he did not take lor granted. He had put
down >be military and naval eltablifhfljent t*,j milli
ons. He thought that fiini might hi reduced doo,ooo
d«liar« ; for his own (hare, he hud no efejeftion to make
it much lower still, when making a calt'uhtion of that
kind, it must be made upon the then eftablifhmtnt,
which was 1,590,000 dollars. He thought, therefore,
that the secretary of the treasury might have cakua
tcd about 5a0,e«0 dollars less, which would
ced tliefum wantedinaddi:ioaalreve«Be from 1,428,75S
dollars to 728,796 dollars.
Mr. G. said he would go farther and fay, that calsu
late the revenue as they pleased, it wouM be equal "to
our present turrent expeafes, and it would be so until
the year jKoo; but in--i3oi, additional revenue ruuj
be had. It was not for curreni expetifet, but to pay
the principal of a debt loaned in Holland, and antici
pations which had been obtained from the banks. Ex
perience had told them ther* yas now no raqre loans
to be got. It was therefore?hecefiary to provide for
the inftaln»ents of the foreign debt whiih woald then
fait due, for which no provjlioiv was made.
, If it were proper to eucreafe the revenue at the pre
sent time, 80c,000 dollars were lufficicnt ; still, if an
encreafe was neccifary,, it wa» right to have an eye to
what would Eereafteiijie waited This brought them'
back to the qtveftion, how (hall the money be raised,
by indireil or direcS taxts ?
It would be well to obfe. vy that gentlemen opposed
to tanation, ia recommending a system of-indi
r?di taxes, had confufrd their plans by diredt tijtcs al
so. The- flamp duty, lit allowed, was an indirect t»x ;
but a window tax was certainly not fe. He would
confine, however, his observations to indiretSl as con
trafted with taxes.
If he lud information before him, that there would
be no danger of embarrassing trade, or encrei6ng
fmugghng, by daing so, he (hould'have no oh t eAion
to a moderate encreafe «f the duty on goods imported.
He believed the impost duty the best adapted to this
country ; but he must confel's he had not that informa
tion which woidd enable him to draw this concluficn.
The gentleman from South-Carolina hid, howevtr,
not oi)I y determined upon the propriet/ of theadditidi,
but also the sum it would raise. He himfelf had 10
documents for eoming to these rooclufions., /
The molt powerful objeAieu which hadbeenurged
again ft dirciil taxes, was the difficulty of collecting
the money' He believed this difficulty exifled kt pre
sent also in sea-ports. This difficulty of collecting
money in the country wa« not applicable to a direst
tax only, but to all nthere; but, he laid, in the pre
ie*t fitnation of our cities, he believed there was not
t more difficulty ia colleiSmg money in the country than
laxities.
As to the manner in which such a tax would fall, it
would, l'ke others, fall opou the people. Hl did
not mean to tilfa notice of what had been Taid about
the mede of afliflment ; that was a tnstter of
at present not before them. This, -he said, he knew,
from the experience of tf.is state, that t/ie difficulties
attending such a fyTtem woukl he infinitely less tlban
had been stated by the gentleman from South Camliiia
—The expense of collecfling a tax thui drawn from
the people was fiinply tliat of aJTeffing and colleaing;
but to an indirect tax, were to be added tl ( e profits
which the merchant never failed to lay upon the tax,
and this profit operated as an additional tax upon- tht
people.
In Ptwnfylvania, he said, where yeariy afieflments
were made (and not once in three years as was said
by the secretary of the treasury in his renort) the ex
pence was not more than per cent. If, upon full
examination of the fubiect, it was found impossible
to raifc the imports, and if they rejected a tax upon
land, he did not fee to what object they could apply,
except to a tax on fait. This, he allowed, would be
easily I 'llectcd, and easily refoi ted to. Neirjy three
millions of buiaels wcie imported annually, jsts«oo
of which, he fuppoferi, were err.ployed in fairing pro
vifiuns. Lay what duty thev woiajci upon this article
it mud be paid. There could be no dohbt as to the
produciivertfs of such a tax; but was there not some
as to the propriety of it ? And when they were told a
tax«n land would fall upon farmers, he would alk
upon whom a lax on fait would fall ? It was confut
ed by men or by cattle. Whin it was cdhfumed by
men, it would fall upon them in proportion to tbeir
numbers. If there was any difference, it would fall
heavier on the poorer class ; particularly i.pon the far
mer, as much the largcft quantity was coniume l by
them- So iar as fait was qonfumed by men,, the tax
would operate as a poll tax, ffccordiug to numbers,
and not to wraith. But was a tax that would fall
upon cattle to be encouraged in |!iis country > Indeed
th?re was not much difference between thfrfalt's being
conmmed hy the farmer or by his stock, afid the gen
tleman from South-Carolina was nor left mistaken *-
bout the quantity of fait given to cattle, than about
forte other ;bings. What would be the effect? It
would either raise t*e prise Of catfle, or the quantity
of fait now used would be diminished. If a reduiftion
in quantity wa» to be the confequci* e, HO effea could
be more perniciuus; and if it were not to have that ef
fect, but to encreafe the price of cattle, would there
be much justice or policy in adopting any measure
which (honld have the effect to advance the price of
butcher's meat, or to decrease tht export of cattle,
which was the only export from this country, which
was at present upon the encreale- an eaport which had
within thelaft lix years been doubled.
[To be continued.]
. B || I
Coilege-Hall.
RtADiNGs and Recitations,
Mtral, Critical, an J Entertaining.
On TUSE DAT E PEKING,
February 14-11, at 7 o'clock,
WiU.he recited
Seh.&ions from the tragedy of
HAMI.ET,
With a Critical Invcftigation of the Char Hamlet,
and Obferwtions oil Shakofpcutc.
Tickets to be had of Mr. Poulfon, jun. at the Library ;
atmr M'Elwee's looking-glaii-flors, No. 70, S. Fourth
tlrect J ar.dat Mr. Carey's, S#BkXcUer, Markei-Urcct—
Half adsilai each.
New Theatre.
On MONDAY EVENING,
lla H'oiJ, called . ,
I he Way to get Married.
[A» performed at Coveht-Ga.de.. Theatre 3, mghu, without
the firft season ; finer, upwards of l„0 s
night#, with unbounded C -J niiff-u
S&ice » M,' T. Warrell
Capt.raullcne'r.Mr. tienpW Mr" MitcWl
r„,nir Mi. Warren Julor.-r Mr. Mitcttell
D&WWI, So.cit.r, 'Mr. Morgan
■ M ,n„,„ v < Mr Pns'more Officer, Mr. V\jn ii
L..& Mr. DarTey WiU--. Mr. J. Darley
Shopmen" Mr. J. warrell
Tulia Faulkner, Mrs. Merry
Cieme.uu.a. M" fef"
I ady Sorrel, Mr». L lltvar.ge
Faun>, Mr »- ®»^ ur
To which will be added, a Faice, called
The Jrifhman in London.
Box, One Dollar vt cents. Pit Seven Eighths
of a Dollar, slid Gallery, halfadollar.
i-y Tickets to be hid at H & P. Kice's tiook-ftore.
No. ;e liigh-ftrtet, ancj at the Office adjoining the
Theatre;. .
Ladies and Gentlemen are requested to fend their
fervantsto keep places a quarter"before 5 o'clock, ami
to order them, as fnon as the company are fea-d, to
withdraw as they •♦.not on any account be permit
ted to remain.
The Boors of the Theatre will Open at 5, and the
Curtain rife precisely at 6 o'clock.
Places for the Boxes to t>e taken at the Office in the
fiont of the theatre, from 10 till 2 o'clock, and from
ie till tarn the days of performance.
VIVAT R ESPUBLICA !
Pantheon.,
AND RICKETTSi's AMPHITHEATRE.
For EcyjssTjiiAN and Stags Performances.
Mr. & Mrs. SPINACUTA
RESPECTFULLY inform their Frien«fs and the
lie in general, their benefit is fixed for
Tuesday Evening, the 14th injlane,
When no exertions will be ffared to render the Enter
-1 tainments of th< evenisg novel and greeable.
Among the entertainments will be
Tight Rope Dancing.
On which Mr. Spinacuta will perform the following
aftonifliing feats : viz.
ill The wooden (he Danes—ad He will fit on a chair
011 the rope, balance a table before him, and take a glass
of wine—3d He will perform a comic dance in which he
will throw half a Somerset backwards and forwards, and
dance upon his .thins in{\ead of .his feet —+th He will
throw himfelf into the air s«d perform the Double Ser
pentea«x —jth He will for the firft time this I'eafon, per
form afurprifing leap over a garter ten feet high, back
wards anp Wwardi, without the|balance pole; he will
pwt half a crown on his foot, throw it into the and
cucli it ill a glass, will play several favorite airs 011 the
Violin, Mth variations; wi]l go through the manual ex
ercise withjthe American flag ; will alcend and delcend
the fleepdart of the rope leading the Pit, and perform
many surprising feats never attempted by any but himfelf.
Horsemanship
By the Equestrian Group.
Surprising Feats by Mr. Sully, as Clown.
Ground and Lofty Tumbling,
By Mellrs. Ricketts, Franklin. Hutchins, Solly, and
Clown Mr. Spinacuta.
Equestrian Ixercifes,
Mr. Ricketts, who will periorm a variety ■of aftomflv
ing feats, never done by any but himfelf,
N A comic Burletta, railed
The Dressing-Room
Or, THE INTRIGUING FRISEUR.
Sir Jeremv, Mi. Chambers
Puff, (the Baiber) Mr, Sully
•Lady Jeremy, Mils Robinson
Betty, Mrs. Chambers
Cornplantsr,
Will take off his Saddle and pick up a Handkerchief, at
the, word of command
A favorite comic IRISH SONG, by Mr-Sully
Between the interval* of Stage Performances,
HORSEMANSHIP.
A. NEW PANtOMIME,
Never performed here, got up by Mr. Spinacuta, exiled,
The Magic tight ;
Or,
The Little Cripple Devil.
With newmulic, chingea and decorations.
HaiJequin, Mr. Sully
Dor. Ferdinand. Mr. Dnn;ng
Alplioufo, (Lover) Mr. Jones
P»en«t Spinacuta
i'Onna LJenna, M'S. Spiaacoia
Little Crippjc Devil, Miss Solly
Benevolent Witch, Mr. Coffie
Cui.ners, Mess. F* Ricketts & Coffie
Supernumeraries, by tho reft: of the Company.
In tht course of the Pantomime, will be the following
, Changes >
ill. TKe Mi gic Bottle. 2d. The Enchanted Trunk.
3d. The Magic Post ; from which will rife tke Sixteen
States of Amcrica, and the Won<Wful Bouquet.
4th. The c«mic fcenc of the Paflry Cook Shop,
stk. Harlequin taken l)y the Superior magic of the
Cl®wn, oi)d fired from a Mortar into the air.
In which will be iritroduced, by particular desire, the
laughable DYING SCENE
6th. The Clown fdzed by ty/o DEVILS, and hnrricd
through the air.
Seventh ard last change.
An Rxaft Vtew of the Dilavjur* and Jcrfry Shore.
To conclude with the admir'dSONG of
THE HINDERING SAILOR*
By Mr. Ckajwers.
Doors to be open at five, and the Performances to begin
precisely at a quarter p;iil frx.
Tickets to be had at the usual places ; at Mr. o'Ellers*s
Cfi»ffee-Houfe ; where places for the Boxes tnay be tafcen ;
also at ths bar of the City Tavern ? Mr. Simonct's Paltry
f Cook shop, Newmarket'; and at.Mr. Spinacuta'*, No. ai
foiith Fifth-ftreet, Cfcruei of Walnut-street.
j. J _ •
A Wet Nurse.
WANTS A PLACE,
I YOUNG Woman, with a good Waft of milk. She
i- can be well rect.namended Enquire at Mr. Mor
row s, Gun-Smith, the State-House, Chefnut-
Itrtet. February 13. , _j t
A MANUFACTORY for Sale.
A valuable SO;>P and C.iNDLE Manufaflorv, f„ u , t e
n a cooveutent part of the city ; (he works .Imolt new,
on an entirely 0r.g.n.1 construCtion, and built of the bell
whown: ' a 10 work ""mediately. Perfo...
c' 1 Pyrchafe, ate 1 puttied to apply at Wo i7ai
South Stcwd itrcet. Septembers. ««f J
Treasury Department,
Sejuemba i% 11
NOTICE is hereby given, that prcpofah w..i be .
ceived at the office of the Secretary as ih« Treat u j
until the expiration of the firlt day of March i\tx: a.-
suing, for thefupply of all rations which may he reninrM
for tho.ufe of the United States, from the firft iay 0 t
June, 1797, to the thirty-firft day of May, 1798, bot.i
days inclulive, at the places and within tfte dift-i<ft s h t
aft r mentioned, viz. Ax Ofwego; at Niagara; at
Paefque lfle f at Sandufky Lake, and on Saudufky
River; at Detroit; at Michilimxckinac; at Fort-frank.
lin, at Pittsburgh ; at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hamilton
at Fort St. Clair; at Fort Jcfferfon ; at Grenville; at
Picque Town and Loramies Store; at Fort Adams; at
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance ; a'any place~t(*low Fort
Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Erie; at Fort
Steuben ; at tort Maffic ; at any place from Fort MalTac
to the south boundary of the United States on the river
iMiflilijipi; at Fort Knox ,- at Ouiatanon.
If supplies fl'.all be required lor any pofls or ylacfcs not
mentioned in this notice, all fucb supplies (hall be fur
nifned at prices ,proportioned ta those to be paid at the
posts before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed on S
between the United States and the Contractor.
The rations to be supplied are to consist of the fol
lowing articles, viz.
One pound two ounces of bread »r flour.
One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounces »f
pork or bacon.
Half a gill of rum, brandy or whilkey.
One quart and half a pint of fait.-)
Two quarts of Vinegar, f , , ,
Two pounds of Soap, un ration#
One pound of Candles, j
The rations are to be furnilhed in fa: h quantities, as that
there fliall at all times during the f.iid term, be fufficicnt
for the consumption of the troops »t Michilimackinac, De
troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, fer the term of fix months in
advance, and at each of the other polls, for the term of
at least three mouths in advance, in good and wholeiomo
provisions,}!: the farre fkatl be required. It is to be un
derflood, that the Contra&or is to be at the exfente and
rilk of iffuirg the fuppli«s to the troops at each poll, and
that all losses fuilaincd by the depredations qf an enemy, or
by muaus ot the troops of the United States, shall be paid
for at the price of the articles captured Or destroyed, on
the depositions of two or more persons of creditable cha.
radters, and the certificate of a commiffioncd officer, as
certaining the circumstances of tii#*t)fs, and the amount
of the *1 tides for which compenfariotf ihall be claimed
OLIVER WOLCOTT, • WMf
Secretary of the f reafm-y.
StVJ
——————— — * 1 —
A convenient stable
Situated in Laurel Court—3 Stalls therein to be rent
ed, with the privilege of using the Hay-Loft.
Eight years of the time of service »f zMEGXO MAN
for sale. He is 'accadorned to home work, and capable of
taking care of Horses. Entire of the Printer.
February 11 ft thtf 1
RICE.
180 Tierce J Rice for Sale by
Samuel Breck, Jun.
N-o. 89 South Third Street
LIKEWISE.
15or*« Pockets COTTON, and
A Quantity I. H. SHERRY WINE,
$o Cdfct SW'E£ 1' OIL, &c. Acc.
Feb mat y n f t&thgt
Canal Lottery, No. 11. ,
Scheme »f a Lottery, authorized by an ail entitled
"An acl to enable the President and. Managers'of the
Schuylkill and Sufquehannah navigation, to r.}ite, by
way of Lottery, the fnm of Four Hundred Thousand
Dollars, for the purpose of completing the works, in
their acts of incorporation mentioned."
Dollars
I Prize of twenty thousand dollars, 10,009
I of ten thousand dollars, 10,000
5 of four thousand dollars each, to
be paid to the poffeflbrs of the five
numbers firil out of the wheel 011 the lafl
day s drawing, at which time there (ball
not be lefi than 500 numbers undrawn, 20,000
Ic of two thousand dollars each, 20,000
20 of anE thousand dollars each, 20,t00
43 of five hundred dollars each, 21.500
100 of two hundred dollars each, 20,c00 ,
100 of one hundred dollars each, 10,000
220 ot fifty dollars each, 11, coo
29,500 of five dollars each., 147,500
30,000 Tickets at ten dollars each. 300,000
Six dollats for eacb ticket will only be demanded at
the time of ft!e.
AH prices Ihafl be paid ten days after the drawinp if
finifhet! : upon the demand of the pollefTor of a fortunate
ticket, fubjefl to a deduction of fifteen percent.
Such prizes as are not demanded within J2 months
after the Drawing is finilhed, of which public notice
will be given, (hall l»e eonhdered a* rrf>sl|b»fh£!d /or
the use of the Canal and applied accordingly.
At a metting of the Preiident and Managers of the
Schuylkill and Swfquehanna Canal Navigation—and
the President and Manager* of the Delaware aftd
Schuylkill Canal,
Resolved, That Joseph Ball, John Ste nmctit, Stan
difh Forde, Frnncis Weft, James M'Crea,. John Mil
ler, junr. and William Montgomery be a committee -
to arrange and direct tfce mode ot disposing of the
tickets ; which committee fcall deposit the money in
Bank, to be carried to the credit of an account to be o
ptned fop the Lottery.
At a meeting of the Cana' Board, held January 16, '97,
Resolved, That the committee for conducing the
Lottery be directed tb commence the drawing on the
fifft day of March next.
Extract froni the minutes,
\Vm. M. Smith, Secretary.
' J°f e pb Ball,
juhn Stfinmelz, I
Slar.di/h Forde, |
Francis W'e/?, [► Manager*,.
'James M'Crea,
"Joins Miller, jun.
William Montgomery , J
Jan. aa. th&f.tf
FOR SALJE,
At Whitefides' Tea Ware-Houie,
No. 99, North Second Street.
Imperial C Hffon Skia.
Hyson.. > Frelh Teas. < Soushoag,
Young Hyson, J {. liohea
Dec, y. jtawjm.
Washington Lottery.
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be purchased or
exchanged for prizes, at the Office, No. 147. Chef iut
ftreet, where a corred Numerical Bodily is kept for public
nlpeilion. Also Canal Lottery Ticke'ts for sale or ex
'.hanged for prizes di awn in the Washington Lottery, <rf
which the 60th and 61ft da/s returns arc r«ce ; ved.
vj" Th* 3utuCii «i a Broker ciuricd on as ufuzl. .
January 11, twtfL—MLIM 111 ■!■■■■ II C
!
AN D ,
Philadelphia Daily Advertlfer.
.—' • i
PHILADELPHIA, February 13. J
STOCKS.
Si* per Cent. - - ... - 16/4 j
\ Three per Cent. - 9/4 * & (
4i per Cent. - -
51 per Cent. - -- -- - - -
Deferred Six per Cent. - 1 J f9
BANK United States, - - - II »i» per ct j
Pannfylvarua, ™'
— North "Vmerici, 40 do,
Infuraacc Comp. N. A. shares, - 15 per ct. I
• ! Pennfylv. P*r- '
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Oil London, at 30 days, 6l l-t I
at 60 days, f 60
at 90 days, J 7 '*» t
Amsterdam, 60 day's, per guilder. 4*
90 days, » 41
Dim, the nth i ,ftant, and wis buried yefter- j
Jay from the Pettnfylvani* Hospital, Ann Tag-
GA*t, being the sixth person who peiifhed by means
of the late fire at the h«u(e of Andrew Brown, ;
with whom (he lived about two weeks. She [
exhibited (under severe pai/i) an example ef pa- 1
tience and quiet resignation to the will of the A 1 1
mighty, and often exprefled, tho' seldom able to do 1
it above a whisper, the grateful fenft she retained I
of the kindness of many citizen* ; and in particlar, 1
fce acknowledged her obligations to the physicians,
nurses and ftewatd of the hotlfe, for their unremit- '
ted exertion* to relieve her deplorable fituatiorr. j
Dies, in the Weft-Indies, Capt. Paul Stivbns, 1
of N(wintry Port.
From the VmoimA GdXiTTt, , I
Mil. BOWS N, ]
I AM a countryman, and having read the Que
ties in your Gazette of ihe 13th inffant, 1 palled
them over for that time ; hut going lately on foma |
domrUic business to a mill in my neighborhood, I (
heard a conversation there between two ot my (
neighbors, Air. fruitier and Mr IVorrcn, which,
for the fake of>the gentleman who proposed said j
queries, 1 (hall her«* fubjoiu. Yel fiift it may be
neeeffary ta inform him, that Mr Truliber is a plain .
honest (armer, who lludies little else than the ad- (
vam ement of that laudable profeffion, but who,
neverjielefs, is a hearty friend to his and |
wifhesthat every tljjpg we haVe to export may bear
a good price ; and that Mr. Warren has taken some
pains to acquire a knowledge in the political affairs
of his < 9untry.
Mr. T— Dull Times—dull times, Mr. Warren, (
yvheat falling every day ; it will fo«n become a
mere drug ; what can be the meaning of this, Mr.
Warren ? . ,
Mr. IV.—The reason is, Mr. Truliber, because
the French will not fuffdT us to carry any thing ,10
or from British ports, which cuts,off near*/ two- .
thirds of onr trade. S—
Mr. T. Aye, Aye*, I was reading Something
about that in a late newfyaper; how, if the Briifh (
take our (hips, (hould not the French, to be even
with hem, do so too ! Now, I suppose, there must i
be fomethingas hard as the D~vil iB that question,, (
or it would not have been put in the nenfpapers to
get an answer to. (
W. Why I will Rate a cafe to yon that ■ (
will make the matter a little plainer. Her* yoi
give part of your custom to Mr, Anderfoii'l mill,
and part to Mr. Brown's. I
Mr. T.~ Yes, 1 fend my wheat to Mr. Ander
fon's,' and u.y corn to Mr. Brown's, for common
Mr. /r. -7-Well, now, suppose some quarrel
„ * should arise between Mr. A. and Mr. B. and Mr. ,
A. to be revenged on Mr. B. should take it into his
head to intercept and feiee all your corn on the '
rotid to Mr. B's mill ; and if Mr. B. to injure Mr.
A. (hrttfld feiaeiill your wheat on the road to Mr.
A's mill—would he be juftifiable with regard to
yon I ' x
Mr. T.—No, egad, the one ought to be hanged
aa well as t'other.
Mr. W. N'>w, Mt. Truliber, the French have
no more right to feixe our veflels, in the manner
they do, than Mt. B. would have to seize jour
'wheat in the cafe just mentioned, even if the Bri
tifti were guilty of the fame violation every day,
which, for any intelligence vv« have received, has
rot been the cafe finee the ratification wf the
tieaty.
Mr T-—P(ha, if that's all, egad, I ceuld
have anfweted that qtteftien myfelf; and, for that ,
n>a;ttr, so might my wife, and put it in the news
papers too. But when 1 have been at the court, 1
and liftei.cd 'o some of our politictaneis there talk
ing about—the law o,f nations 1 think it was, and 1
about the Bntilh and French both taking a pluck 1
at un, becßVii'e we hadn't a fleet, I did not know i
but the law of nations might befomething like the
dog law. where every one worries the weakest, or
the one th*t'« down.
1 Mr. fV. The law ef nations, Mr. Truliber, con
fids of certain general rules, commonly observed by
all nations, with regard to one another ; and that
particular one which is atoll involved «n the pref
ect occafien, is to this purport—when two nations
are at war, the property, of the third, »r neutral
nation, is always restored, when taken by either
•f them on board a fliip 6f the other ; and, on she
contrary, 'he property of either of the contending
nations, when found on board of neutral Alips, is
always cot>fidered as lawful prize by the other; ;
moreover, Mr. Tiuliber, in the-treaty between the
United States and Franee, it was mutually agreed,
to relinqutfh tpis rule, and eftablifli another in its
place, viz, that the property of enemies, found on
board the ships of either Franee or America, should
be free and' undftiurbed by the other ; and, on the
contrary, that the property of either nation, found
on board enemy's (hips, should be confider«d as law
ful ptiz«.—But the former rule in, the law of n.i*
tiorn remains as.it is in ht treaty ketwetn this coun
try and Great Britain: And in answer to the gen
tleman's query, where be demands, why France
1 ought not to be put npon a footing with mod at
favoured nation, let it be temeAibered, that if th? pi
Britifti derive any advantage from the observance n<
of that rule, byfeizing French property on board pi
American ships, that this advantage was not beflow
ed upon them as a favor by America, jut that they • gs
were pofTeffcui of it long before. How then can pi
America be said to favor any nation, when (lie ci
grants thera nothing which (he had ittbeltow ? But ar
the French have not only broken their treaty with us, w
but they have gone further, and violated the law of
nations, by seizing our ships with our own property at
on beard. . m
Mr. T.—And what could induce them to take is
such a tanterum as that Mr Warren ? *«
Mr. IV.—Nothing in the world, only because we
preferred an amicable adjuflment ot our dispute B
with Great Britain to the dccilioo of tho sword.
Mr. T.—And so, because we didn't fight,
they'll whip us, eh ?
Mr. W.—Yes, or because we did not make a bet
ter treaty with Great Britain.
Mr. T. — Why ei-rajl, now, that's ju(l as if I was o
to go and beat John Stoue there, for not making a a
better bargain t'other day, when he fold his bay y
horse—though h« did as well as he eould, I fnppofe. si
, Mr. W.—Juft so, Mi. Truliber ; and as to a I,
change of tone in feme of our great nt»n, which 11
is the fubjeft of one of the gentlemen's queries, 1 t«
imagine, when the medium is drawn, be: *sea the il
mad (allies of paffian on one fide, and political en- re
, thufiaftn on the other, it will be found, that those ei
[ gentlemen have kept the medium with firmnefs, and ft
| that they have at ho time call away the olivie branch le
with one hand, nor the sword with the other— h'
(Here Mr Truliber fleppcd forward, and took up b;
the paper, which was laying on the head of a flour ai
barrel, to try what remarks he could make, and, bi
, read •'that generous"—but not being able to I
make out the word " magnanimous," be passed it q 1
over and said, " that generous nation"—yes, egad, tc
very generous ; fueh generoufnefs as that puts me ft
in mind of ihe ttoty about the cat and the monkey,
which I was reading the other day in one of »iy.
little boy's books ; how the monkey anil -'Ve cat
I were very great frie«ds, and always playing and tl
pawing together ; but, one day, upon a pinch, ti
when the monkey wnnted to pull some chefnuts a
out of the fire, he made use of the cat's paws for a
tongs, and pok'd them into the co;.ls! now, ac- 7
I cording to accounts, that's the way the French are h
serving us, Mr. Warren)
Mr. W [ think it is a very near resemblance ;
indeed, M. Truliber ; for though the Fiench were
called our friends, yet, whenever they could gain a «
| small advantage, by doing us a great injury, they ri
have not scrupled to make use of us is tbe monkey I
did the cat in the fable ; that is, they have been tl
willing to destroy our commerce, for the fake of im- 0
peding that of the British. ti
Mrr T.—(StilJ looking intently at the word it
' magnanimous, in the second query)— But here's It
mag—fomethiug—egad, I'll wager yon that n
this Mi. what d'ye callurri has been making fun all tl
this while, and this long ward here pays up for all I'
What is that word, Mr. Warrea ? u
Mr. W.—Magnanimous; and the meaning of it fc
il, great, noble and houeft. it
Mr. T.—Now, I fwcai, I thought it would mm 11
our to be some fly joke when I was told rr
the meaning of it. li
"*t. W.»~lt was very natural foi yon. to suppose ti
thai; the gentleman meant a btirlelque ; for, in his d
' fifth and lafl quety, wnen he asks, what answer Has
been given t® France, concerning the iinproTaietit /
ofourfeamen by the Bri'ilh, 6cc ? it mi ht as well
have bean demanded, had there been a ir between
France and Algiers, when those pirates were apti- w
vating and erflaving our seamen, what faiisfa&ion d
had been given Fiance foi their being cumpillcd as ri
flives to row their enemies ships? The former con- e
I dust of the British was certainly rxecrable, as that si
of the French is puw ; but as to you arid I, Mr. il
Truliber,' and in (hint, every other man ps us, we
ought netther to be partisans of Britain, nor parti- f«
zans of France, but citizens of America. t<
[H c Mr. Truliber's waggon driving up to the |t|
mill door, broke off the covet fat ion. 3 ai
ai
1 By this day's Mails. *
: NEW-YORK, February 11. 0
r • L
r Latest Foreign Intelligence.
By the (hip Franklin, Allyn, in 53 Jays from Leudon.
« PARIS, November 28. e !
; The ncge iations with the Englilh government ,01
seem to take rather a more favor'atile turn to-day.
1 The dirc&ory have acknowledged the principle of
t compensation ; besides, therr last raply does not !
bear those marks of harshness and severity which
~ charrfterized their former notes. This is one ad
- vantage which we owe to the publication of the
I correspondence. The opinion of the public was (1
; decidedly pronounced<fcgci»fl the rude forms they ni
1 had adopted in their negociations; and our nega- v
: ciator has therefore deemed it prudent to change
r those forms. ,
December j. ;
General Vaubois ha» been suspended by Buona- - tl
' parte. He did riot execote h;s orders, and thus si
caused part of his plan to fail. f I q
. The Ruflian forces under general Subow, ae- !fl
1 cording to letteis from Poland, have keen defeated ; 11
I in ?n engagement with the Persians. The former
were compelled to retreat with the loss of 10,000 1 p
- men. . . | ti
General Pichegru is at.length going at ambaffa- j t<
1 dor to Sweden, to compliment the new king on his '
; accrfllon.
If we are to'ttuft to the patters from Italy, Man.;
, tua must be at this moment in the hands of the
3 French.
ARMY of ITALY. ' '
I Letter froir. general Berthier, chief of tbe ftat ii
major of Italy, to general Barraquey D. Hil- o
) lier. tl
" Head quartan at Milan, 8 Frimaire, i
* Navtmbcr 28, yh year.
" I informed you, general, by tbe last bulled
. which f sent y >u, that, after having beaten the
: troop; commanded by geaeral Alviuzy in perfen,
at ArooJa, the c<\n*mart<ler in chief m.dc Ms dlf- "J
p. fitV a attack rhe column corr.mitided by ge- jle
neral Davidcvich, who had brought hia yuivaoccd %
polls as far a* Caltleoovo.
" On the tft Frimaire, the commander in chief
gave orderj to attack the enrrtiy, who, reprtlfed from
pcfition topolition, cffe&ed his retreat wilh pre
cipitation. His rear guard was vrrjr ill treated, g
and partly cut off upon the heights of Riv»li, of _
which we remain matters.
" Different detached corps pursued him all night
i above the Corona and along the Adigc. ,We have i fl
; made in this day 1,100 pnfoners, whom tl
is colonel «ount Lherbach, and taken 4 pieces o f fc
cannon anl 6cai3ons. ri
(Sgfled) «« IERTHIER."
Buonaparte, commanding the army of Italy, to
citizen Caraot, member of the Executive Di
, reCtory.
" Head-quarter lat Vrreng, Brumaire 29, a
Nevemitr 19, §;h year ei
V The deltiuies of li*ly begin 10 ; yet al
i one viflory te morrow, ef which 1 have little doubt,
t and I hope before ten days are part, to write to 1
r yon from head quarters at Mantua. NeVer was a t(
. frcl/ of battle so much disputed as that of Areola ; i,
1 I have scarcely any more generals ; their devnted
-1 uefs and courage are without example. The ge- c
neral of brigade, Lafre, came to the field of bat- <]
r tie before he *as cured of the wound which he f|
- received at Govcrnelo. ' He was wounded twice u
: early in the battle ;at three in the afternoon he was a
1 stretched upon his bed, and fuffering 1 when he a
» learned that I was royfelfat the bead si the column, f
- he threw himfelf from hit bed, mounted on horse- ft
> back and came to find me. Being obliged to re
r main on horseback, he received, at the head of the q
, bridge of Areola, a blow which laid him senseless.
> I assure you, that ill this was neceflaryto our con
quering ; the enemy were numerous and cxafpera- r
, ted, the generals at their head, of whom we killed n
: several. j
, (Signed) " suoNAfARTE."
S.TRASBOURGH, Nov. 28 5
The blood it ill runs in torrents en the banks of] v
! the Rhine. It is n»w midnight. I finilh my let
, ter to the fo%nd of cann 1 , which are now firing
s at Kehl with such force as to fh ke evety window f
" at StrafWjrgh. The engagement has latted since r
- 7 o'clock this evening. It is the firlt time we have
: had a nijht affair so violent as this appears to be. 0
LONDON, December 5.
; But the inoft important article a. intelligence a
1 which those Journals bring us is the following cor- r
refpondence between Lord Malmifbury and M. e
' De La Croix, in which the public will fee that t
1 the principle »f cuwipenfations, so cagpily infilled r
■ on as the batis of negociation, is formally and li-
terally agreed to by the French, as it was before t
1 in spirit and infadl. We do not intrude the recol- c
j ledliun of our opinions on the public, and we should t
not now recall the interpretation which we putson a
1 the former con«efiion of the point made by the ,
French Minifler, if it weie not to (hew the futility j
of the luvedtives that weie thrown out upon us by j
some bf (itir contemporauesojiaccourit of ourreafon- t
ing. Having admitted the two coun- J
1 tries are now fairly at issue upon terras ; and if we t
I may give credit to the information of the belt po- 1
lineal I'irclcd, Mr. liliis will Ipecdiiy return to Pa- I c
lis with the prccife concessions to be offered Bnd
> dem; oJed by England. (Morn. Chron.)
s NOTE
Fram Lord Malmtfiury to the Ml/tfter for Ft reign j
1 affairs. (
' The Coutt of London having been informed of
- what paSed after the recept of the last memorial )
1 delivered, by their order, to the minitfet for Fo 1
! reign A ff.■ i rs, find that there is not a,i y thing what 1
- ever to be added ta the answer made by the under
signed to the two quefti.ms which the J
• thought proper to adu r-:i to them. j
: They wait then, and with the tfreateft 5
• for an explanation of the fcntiments of the Direc- j
tory, with rejjto the principle proposed, on '
: their pan, as the basis of.thc negociation, and the '
adoption of which appeared to be'the bed means of '
" j accelerating the progrel's of a difctiflion f» import- '
; ant tt> the happiness of so mqiiy nations. (
The underligned has, >r confequcrce received (
j orders to renew the demand of a frank and precise r
i answer on: this object, in order that his cnurt may 1
; know with certainly, whether the Diredory ac- 1
cept the said proposition ; whether thry delire '
to make any char.gc or mo difications whatever iu it ; (
er, lastly, whether they will propofeany other ptin- j
ciple that may promote the lame end.
(Signed) •
MALMESBURY. '
Paris, Nov. 26, I 796. '
ANSWER
Of the raimfter for foreign affairs to Lord Malmefbu- j
ry's note.
In anfwtr to the note delivered yesterday, Nov. 36, c
.(nldftile) by Lord Malmelbury, the underligned mi
nister for foreign :ffjirs, is by the Execut- :
'.ve Dire(3«ry, to oblerve, that the answers made on
- die clh and ud of last Brumaire, contained an ac- '
knowledgmeut of the principle of compenlation, and 1
j thit.in qrder to remove every pretext tor farther dif- ,
i cufiioajKi that point, the underfrgned, in the name«f
• ! the Executive liirtilory, now makes a formal and po
s fitivtdeclaration »t such acknawledgment. In confe- '
! quence, Lord Malmelbury is again invited to give a
.! speedy and categorical answer to the proportion made
jj to him on the aid of last Brumaire, and which was '
' conceived in these terms —" The underligned is in
firufted by the Executive ~Dire<SWy, to invite you to
■ point snt with all passible expedition, and expressly.
j the objects of reciprocal cemptnfati«n which you have
I - to propose." <
(Signed) CH. DELACROIX.
7 Frimaire (Nov. 17.) sth year. t
ANSWER t
: Of Lord Malmelbury to the note of the minister of so- •
reign affairs, dated the 7th Frimaire, Nov. ty. |
i The undersigned minister plenipotentiary ®f his Bri
tanic majesty, in answer to the note dated this morn- )
' ing, and which has been transmitted to him on the pa>t i
. of the a iniftertjf foreign affairs, hastens to assure hitn I
that he will not lose a moment in communicating it to
his court, from which be mull still exped ulterior or- :
' riera, before he can explain himfelf with refpeil to the
important matter which it contains.
™ MALMESBURY.
e Paris, Nov. n.
, Some letter; fran Lisbon, delivered out an Satur
day, announce the p epai ations made in Portujtal by
lea and land, as war they fi«d is nnt to be averted. Se
veral men of war fi'ting in the Tagvis : and camps
are about forming on the frontiers, which are to a
. mount to 6c,c00 men. Tl)e prince of Bazil, it was
said, takes the field with the troop«.
December 6.
We had yesterday the latisfacflion of anaouncing
generally, that the fubfcriptinn for the new loan had
been finally closed. Thi we ftatNl to have taken place
at half palt eleven, whereas it was at tweuty minutes
past ten —twenty minutes only, after the books had
been opened. At ten o'clock in the morning, the par
lor doors of the bank were opened, before which time
the lobby was crowded. It was a pleafmg fight to fee
feme of the firfl merchants of the city of
running. w,ith cagernel's to the bar, whieh was so pref
fcd upon by the crowd, as to require being propped up.
Numbers could not get near the books at all; while
others, to teftify their zeal, called to the persons at the
hooks then figning,-to put down their names for tnem,
as they were frarful of being shut out. At about 20
minutes past ten, the fnbfcription was declared to ke
completely full, ai.d hundreds in the room were reluct
antly obliged to go away.
By the poll yesterday, innumerable orders came frotii
the country for fubferiptions to be put down, scarcely
one of which could be execute!. For some hours af
ter the fubfeription was closed, persons continued som
ing, arfH were obliged to depart disappointed.
Stocks yesterday experienced a rife of one per
cent. They were down for the opening as high a*
59-84. This rife may be partly attributed to the
spirit of loyalty and patriotism which has been so
unequivocally exprefled on the occasion of the loan,
and to the circumflance of the ExecutivofDire&ory
c<f France having assented te the proportion of the
Biitiffi court, that the principle of the compenfatioa
(hall be the bafia of the negociation •
The new loan yesterday bote a premium of threa
' quarters per cent.
December 7.
Urdefs peace takes place immediately, a ftrnnj
reinforcement of treopt are to be sent te St. Do
mingo. Part are to fail from Spithead, the remain
der from Cork.
The Hungarian*, it is said, are about to raise
50,000 cavalry, and 52,000 infar.try, for the ser
vice of the Emperor.
December 8.
• Mr. Ellis is expected to leave town to morrow
for Paris, with further inftruitions to Lord Mal
mefhury
In the fitting of the Council of Five Hundrsd
• on the 29th ult. Paftoret proposed the following
plan of a decree t That, by virtue of the law of the
9th of December, 1790, every individual born
abroad, who descends in any degree from a French
man expatiiated on account of his religion is declar
• cd and acknowledged a natural born Frenchman j
rhaf every one of these individuals shall enjoy all the
I rights of a citizen, provided he returns to France,
prefects himfelf before the Municipal Administra
tion of'the"Canton which he <h » ohoofe, and de
■ clare his name, his family, the leaLn why his fa«
I ther left Frawce, the place to which they retired,
1 and the formal intention of fettling in the country.
At the expiration of a twelvemonth, he is to enjoy
all the rights of Citizeufhip, provided he pays the
' public contributions. The Religionist who return
■ ed to France, by virtue of the law of the 9th of
December, 1790, are exempted from thef« formali
: ties. The dispositions of the plan of the prrfeftt
- law are not applicable to those Religionists, or their
children, who only left France since toe 15th of
i July, 1789.
December 9.
At a late hour last night we received the Pari#
1 papers to the $th inft. the •ontents of which will
be found under the head French Republic.
f The intelligence from the army nf Italy is very im
-1 portaiit. The current of vidlory, it is with concern
we remark, continues its rapid course in a favorable di
rection to I,he French caofe. After\he defeat of the
Imperial Field Marshal Buonapare proceeded
to attack the army of gerteral Jjavidovich, whieh had
' forced the French lines that covered the bloclcade of
Mantua, and advanced as far as Caftelnavo , On the
, 21ft ult. he came up with this division, which hefovi
- goroufly attacked, that in a short time the Auftrians
j retreated with precipitation in every (lireition, and were
clefely pursued the whole of the night by the enemy
j above the Corona, and along the Atlige. The rear
guard of the Imperialists fuffered very severely. Ele
ven hundred prisoners, among whom was Col- Count
de Lherbach, four pieces of cannon, and fix caffons,
1 fell into the hifnds of the French. This victory is the
e more entitled to serious attention, as it serves te confirm
f Buonaparts's account of the rec*nt defeat of field mar
. ilia! Alvinzy, which mult have been of a very decisive
nature indeed, to have onahled the Fre»ch general to
march uninterruptedly, to the attack of the other Auf
' trian army, the co-opero ion of which it was the graad
• objedt of the field m.i 14 Ito obtain.
Buonaparte's accouri. has not yet been publifhod.
The above is from Berihier, whole details have, on eve
ry occasion, been found to be written with much atten*
tion to accuracy and truth.
From the Rhine it is lilted, that on the night of tht
aSth ult. a fniart aCJion took place at Kehl, the particu
lars of which were not known when the account was
closed. »
' The capture of Mantua was reported at Paris on she
sth inft. but the-rumour obtained no credit. Even
} Buonaparte's gasconading dispatch did not venture to
promise the fall of that important place at so early a pe-
I riod.
•_ Government, we understand, received some advices
{ from L6rd Malmelbury, last night.
Yesterday advices were received Lord Orenville's
office of the arrival at Portsmouth of the Marquis ef
t Bute and his suite, accompanied by Mr. Murray, late
e Consul General in Spain, from Portugal. His lordship
s is expected in t'own this day.
Three Hamburgh mails are now due.
3 NEW-.YORK, February 10.
A severe press was going on in England for the navy,
e Several Ruffian ships of war and frigates had arrived
at the Nore.
The Spanish Ambaflador at Paris has denounced to
the minister for foreign affairs a libel primed at Bay
onne, copies ef which had been circulated through the
- whole of Spain. It contained an invitation to the peo*
pie for an infurre&ion.
Don Solano, the Spanish general who has been for
1- some time with the French armyef gen. Moreau, it
't stated to have been appointed to the command of the
n siege of Gibraltar.
o Considerable preparations were making ha Portugal
■- for the defence of that kingdom ; and the assistance to
c be given by England appears in a&ual forwardnefs.
Entered.
Ship Henrietta, Jones Cape^NichoL.Mole
v Lydia, Brown Cork
(- Franklin, AUw LondonPorcupine's Gazette.
Propofali by WILLIAM COB3ETT, opposite Christ
Church, Philadelphia, for publishing 1 , new»-paper, (
to be entitled
Porcupine's Gazette, £5° Daily Advertiser.
Methinks 1 hear the reader exclaim ; " What! ha»e
wt not Gazettes enough already ?" Yes, and far tao
many: but those that "we have, are, in general, con
dueled in ftich a manner that their great number, m
ftead of rendering mine unneeeflary, it the only cause
that cdle for its eUab!Hhment.
The gazettes in this country have done it more real in- £
,jufy tli.w ell itsopeu enemies ever did orear.do. They p
miiicud the people at home and iiiifreprefent them a- q
broad. It was these vehicles of (edition and discord f (
that encouraged the counties in the Well to rebel ; it t,
was they that gave riie to the depredations of Britain,
by exciting the people to fu;U a<Sj oi- violence against y
that nation, as left no room to doVn that v«e were,de- 4
termintd on war ; an>l it was they, when an accorn- n
modation had been happily effei£led,_that stirred up an t
opposition to it luck as has seldom bicn witnefied, and a
which was overcome by mere chance. These gazettes
it was, "that, jy misrepresenting the dispositions of the
people, encouraged the French to proieed from one
degree of ijifsience to pother, 'till at last their Minis- _
terj braves the i'refideht in his chair, and a bullying
commander comes and tells us that his only bulinefs is<
to seize our vefiels, in violation of a treaty, in virtue E
•t which ajone he claims aright to cater our ports: and ''
it Is these gazettes thJt now have the impudence to pe- '
fend what their falfehood and malice have produced
I lhall be told that the people are to blame; that
they are not obliged to read these abominable publiea- '
tions. But they do redd them; and thonfands who
*e»d them, read nothing else. To suppress them is im- v
pofliljle ; they will vomit forth their poison ; itisapri- j
vilege of their natures, that no law can abridge ; and
therefore the only mode left is, to countermft its effects.
This must be done, too, in theirown way. Books, 5
or periodic2l publications jn the form of books, may
be of force service, but are by no means a match for -
their flying folios. A falfehood that remains uncontra
dicted for a month, begins to hi looked upon as a truth,
and when the detection at last makes its appearance, it
is often as useless as that of the dodtor who finds his
patient expired. The only method of opposition, then,
is to meet them on their own ground ; to set foot to a
foot ; difpnte every inch and every hair's breadth ; '
jiglit them at thoir own weapons, and return them two
blows for one-
A gazette of this (lamp is what I have long wished to
Tee, but I have wished and axpecled it in vain. Indig
nation at the fupinenefs of others has at last got the
better of ajl diffidence in my own capacity, andhasdc- 1
termined me to encounter the talk. People Have heard ,
one fide long enough ; they now hear the other.
CONDITIONS.
I. Porcupine's Gazette (hall be of the usual size,
and the ftlbfcription Eight Dollars a year, to be paid at I
"■ tie expiration ef ea.-h half year.
1. Advertisements wjll be inferted'at half the ufiial
• price, which will always be required in ready money.
3. The Censor, containing those pieces from the
.gazette that"may appear w-orth preferring in a more
portable form, with such amplifications and amend
ments as time njay give rife -to, lhall be publilhed
monthly, and each fubferiber (ball be entitled to a copy,'
delivered with bis paper at the end of the month,
4. If a fuffitient number of fubferibers be obtained
*the firft number of the Gazette lhall appear on, or be
fore the sth of March.
N. B. A subscription book is now open at my shop,
appoGte C'nrift-church, whither gentlemcnin the coun
try, who wilh to are requested te fend their
names.
SobfcMptions are taken at B off on by Mr. James White, '
bookseller ; at Salem, by Mr. Debeny, poll-master ;
at New-Haven by Mr. Beers, bookseller ; at Newbu
ry.port, by Mr. E. Bluat, bookseller; at Ne.v-York,
by Mr. S. Campbell, bookseller ;at Baltimore,hy Mr.
G. Hill, bookseller; at Chester-town, Maryland, by
Mr. James Arthur, poft-rnafter ; at Eafton, do. by
Vr. Greenbury Neal; at Frederck-town, do. by.
Meflrs. Ifeac and John Mentz; at Richmond, Virg.
by Meflrs. Pritchard and B'avidfon j at Norfolk, by
Meflrs. Rainbow and Hannah; and at Charleflon, by
Mr. Young, bookseller.
Jan. 28. mwftot.
:Lancajler, Harrijiurgh, Carli/le, Ship
penjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
The pttblic are requested to take notice, that the part
ner ft) ip which has for some betweou Mathi
as Slougbof and William Gce>, is now diffel
ved -. bat, not as M. Slough insinuates to the public
without jttft cause ; a 6 will more fully appear by a letter
on the fu!>j:ist from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the
49th DetemW last a recital of whiih is not now deemed
necessary. Any gentleman who withes to be more dr
cumflantially informed of the merits of this business, by
applying to W. Geer may have the pervfal of M. Slough's
letter, and tl'.en can lie at full liberty to-detenmne whe
ther or not W. Geer is not perfe<sly joftifiible in attach
ing himfelf to any other person in the profecation of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Sbippen&urg, '
or any other place.
Now from tbeliberaland p-eterous support the public ]
were pleased to confer on the fc : effort in this buunefs,
William Geer, in conjunction v. ith ivleffrs. Reily, Weed 1
and Witmer, is determined to prosecute, and carry it on,
.■with every eare, attention aaddifpatch that a zeal to «-
blige the publit can possibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided with
carriages, horf.s, and every appurtenance to render the
passage fafe and commodious, inlorm, those wifb to
patronize and encourage the undertaking, tjiat they r;'.n
take their feats at George Weed's, the sign of the White
Horse, Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Fri tay, to .proceed to I.ancaftt r, Harri!burg, Carlisle
*nd Shipjienfburg. The fare as hitherto ellublifhed.
For the further accommodation <jf the nuhlic, a Stage
will ftoi t every Wednesday from the house of Samuel
Elder, in Harriibnrg, arrive at Sunbur;' in Northumber
-1 land county, every Thurlday. am! return from the"ce aud
arrive at ,Tlamfburg every Saturday, te tliat passengers
ieftined for Laucafter or Philadelphia, may procecd -<m
Mondays.
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaller, Jan. 47, 1797-
N. B Thjs Line ef Stages starts front the houft: of >
William Ferree, in Lancaftcr, on every T-acfday qud Sa
turday morning at 6 o'clock, proceeding to the v. dtward;
and fvom the houle of Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg
every Wednesday morning, on the fitme evening arrives
at Patrick Cechrar's in Skippenfburg, and returns from
thence ou every Thwrfday : performing the far.i. routine
daily as in its touv from Philadelphia. mwf
~ IN THE i-iiSS,
And fpeedil) will be publ Ihed,
By William Caiiett and 'John Ormrod,
TWO LETTERS
Prspcials for
P E <1 C E ,
Witk
The Regicide Directory
Ol" FRANCE.
Sy the Kigbt Honorable Lomvms Buhkk, Esquire.
For Sale,
By the Subscribers —In PENN-STRF.ET,
65 Pipes Exoellent Madeira Y/ine,
Imported by the Eagle. ,
WILLINGS & FKANCIS. °
Nov. 30 .
Brokers Office, and
COMP/TLSSION STORE.
Na. 63 South Third'ftr«et, uppofite the nation;,! new EanhJ
SAMUEL M FRaUNCES and JOHN VAN REED,
hare entered into co-partnerflfip, under the firm ol
FRAUNCES & VAN RF.KD, in the bufmefsof Broker",
Conveyancers apd Commiflion merchants. 'Piey buy and r
fell on commiflion every l'pecies of ftoek, noies of hand,
bills of exchange, houf.-s and lands, &c. • e j
Money procured on depolits, &c. &c. -11 kinds r f
writings hi the conveyancing line, done with neatnefsand ti
dispatch; accounts adjufled, and hooks fettled, in the v
• mod; corrcft msnner. Confttmt -itteridancc will be given. a |
They solicit a lharc of the p'lblic,/aver ; they are ileter y
mined to endeavour to deserve it. jj
N. B. The utmost secrecy observed.
SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES,
JOWN VAN REED-
Philad. AUgnft 27, 170*. m&WJf |
' Will be j>ubli/bed, on Wednejilay next,
i, BY MclT' Doblon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the «ther T
Book 'ellers, price One Dollar and twenty-five cents, elcpnt- ci
1 ly printed on woye paper, and hot-pressed, by John Thorap
foo, d;
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF H
The CONSTITUTIONS of tbe fcvtral States, r.
With each other, and with «I;at of the United Statet ai
exhibiting in Tables, the prominent features of eaehCon
' ftitution, and cialEng together their most important pro- 01
vinous, under the several heads of administration ; with -a
! Notes and Observations. By Wit.Li.iM Smith, ps South-
Carolina, LL. D. pnd member of the Congrcfs of the tl
1 United States. Dedicated to tha people of the United a]
1 States.
N. B. A few Copies printed on sn inferior pappr, at p
' 3-4ths of a dollar. February 6 mwt
; FOR bALE, h
About 1,600 acres of Land, j*
WELL situated, laying on and between Marsh
| and flrecb Creeks, Mifflin county, Eeniifylvania, in t !
four leparate Patents. For teni:s of laie apply 10 r
i Wra. Biackbarn,
No. 64,' South Sfcond-f i tet j '
) Jannary 16. mwtV j*
By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
Sold iy IVILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64, •
South SiconA-flteet.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
t For raifißg Sixty Thousand Dollars, agreeably to an Aft J
the LegiHature of Peanfylvaaia, puffed dining the last j fl
1 fefiion, for building a Stone Bridge over the River c
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Heading) in the County ol j t ]
, Berks. Dollars.
i Prixe of 20,000 Dollars •- ao,ooo
1 do. of ie,oco do. • - fo,ooo
. 3 do. of , 5,000 do. 15.000 J 1
j 4 do. of . 2,000 do. . - 8,000
> 20 do. of 1,000 do. - fto,ooo *
39 do. of 500 do. . . 19,500
1 80 do. of 200 do; * lb,000•
aoo do. of 100 do. - 20,000
300 do. of 50 do. - . 15,000 I
1 do. of 500 do. to be paid the pofTef- >
' , for f the firft ylra»"n no. $
< do» of 3,®00 do. to be paid polfeffors )
.of the five lall drawn nos | 1 6»° ®
9,400 do. o 15 do. - 141,000 ,
: : — -— 1 — \
» 10,054 Prises 300,000 ; (
19,946 Blanks 1 (
■9 m ' | t
30,000 Tickets at Ten Dollars 300,000 i •
y All Prizes (hall be paid fifteen days after the drawing u
y finifhed, upon the demand of a polTeflor of a fortunate
v ncket, fubjtft to a deduction of twenty per cent. The [
' t Drawing will commence as foonpas the Tickets are disposed {
s " of, or perhaps sooner. of which public notice will be given. *
Philip Miller * Peter Kerjbncr, William lVitman> j
>/** Hiejler, James Diemer, Thomas Dundee*
Jama May, John Otto, John Keim, Daniel Graejf y »|
Sebajlian Miller, Commission ers. 1
Reading, May the 9th, 1796. ;
Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. a, to be had at the
above office, where the earliest information of the draw- ]
ingof )the Washington No. 2, and PatteTfon
are received, and Check books for examination and regif
J" tering are kept.
Tickets in the above Lottery tehe had at Mr, Sheri
c danVßace-ftreet, x John Hay, North Third-fireet and )
- r Henry Swoyer's, German Town. j
January a6_ aawtf
Lottery and Broker's Office,
7 No. 64, South SscOUD STXSIr.
' I 'ICKF.TS in the Canal Lottery, No. j, for faU—a
ie JL Chetk Book for examinution—and prizes paid in
the late lottery.
Check Bootki kept for examination and rejiflerin?, for
the City of Washington, No. a, and Pattefon Lotteries, 1
■ S) both of which are now drawing—infcirmation wher< '
tickets are to be had, and prices exchanged for undrawr 1
, tickets. A complete lift of all theprizes in the late New- '
Port Lang-Wharf, Hotci and Public icheolLottery, foj 1
examination.
j, The fubferiber folicks the application of the pnSlii :
le and his friends, who wife to purchase or fell Bank Stock '
„ Certificates, Bills of Exchange oi* Notes, Houses, Lands,
n &c. or to obtain money oiydepoficbf property.
:e Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
sale «' Tea Dsllers each, whiah will be drawn early ii 1
l e the Spring.
Wm. Rlflckburn.
je Philadelphia, January x 6, 1797. mtb
cl . -
r i Houses and Lots for Talc,
rs U Y Ae iubferiber, in the town of Weft-ChefUr, Chef
« JJ ter county, 15 miles from Philadelphia, on the great
ftatc-road, leading Westward Viz. No. 1. A two-ft.ry
Stone House, tie corner of High and Gay streets, 40 fcrt
front by 34 feet deep, iflcliding a very convenient llorc
»f . .ioufe : the House contains ten w«U-finiflied rooms, a kit
a- chen and cntiy : the Lot is 144 feet front on Gay-street,
1; —equal to any fund in Wefl-Chefter. No. a. A two-fto
-1-g ry ft one house adjoining, 3? fee; fpnt, containing elsven
es well-finifhed rooms, "h€th being c=i'ed in tlw gairets, house
m and lot fame depth as the other, a kitchen, & c »elhrs
ie ufcder both houses, with good stables on the lots. These
_ Houses are almost new, done by good workmen, in a
maiterly manner. No. 3. a Lot 42 feet front. No. 4,
34 feet. No- 5, 44 ficet. No. 6,119 feet, all of them
ten rods deep. Op two of the above are erecled three log
and frame houses, two ftorici high, cellars under the
whole, and a smalt liable to each-
The above Lots are situated near the Court-Hoofe. The
whole wHI be exposed to,PUBLIC SALE, on the Uftand
12ddaysof Febrnary next, V two o'clock, when the cen
ditioHs win be mais known Poffefiion mav be hai the
6rft of April next. The Title is indisputable.
JOHN KJi.'NARD.
Januarys
*
Bank of Pennsylvania, r-,
v January 4, 1797- J
At a meeting of the Directors thU day, a dividend of in
f'xteen dollars on each Ih-re v. as '[rclaredforth-. Un
6 months, which «ill ke paid to the Stockholder, as- to
ter the i.th inft. „ ...
fONATHAN SMITH, Cashier.
. J dtf.
J* n - 3-
~ DANCING
i taught a *
MRS. B r R N,
1 • • Of the Net* Theatre, To Ltd,is only.
i nPHTNKING.it a great advantage for them to, have a Be
. 1 Female Tutor in ta .t art, pledges herfelf' t® __
ents and sri :nds to take aH poffiblc care 111 tlieir mftrflftion. r
' In addition to the Dances taught in Philadelphia, meanj
to teach the Minuet, Minuet de la Cour, Allcmand, Ga
e vot, QuaJrrllcs, Strathspeys, aryi all Scotch-Dances ; and
- above all to pay particular attention to that very neceflary
part Polite Addrcfs. For particulars enquire of Mrs. Bvan,
No- 7 c north Eighth, street. Februry6 mwf "
Samuel Richardet
RESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
Merchants, .that he has this any opened the CITY -
r TAVERN and MERCHANTS OOFSEE HOUSE in the \
- city of Philadelphia. . tw
The Subscription Room will be furiuJhed with all the a
dailv papers pubHftf-d in Philadelphia, N«w-York, Bos- tQ
tor, Baltimore, together with thofc of the pnncip-! coaS
. mercial »tis» of Europe—They wili be regularly
and nonep'-rmittt d to be taken away on any accotu
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams and a variety
)- of French Liquors; together with the usual rclrefhrneuts,
h will at all times be procured at the bar.
i- Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated Wl '»
e thechoiceft of W mes, Spirituous Liquors, «nd the most
d approved Malt Liquors fromLcndon and other breweries.
The Larder Will befupplipd with the prime and carheft
it productions of the Season.
1 * Targe and fmaU Parties, or fingleGentlemen, may be
~ accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hours molt convenient to themfolves—a cold Collation is
tegslarly kspt for th« Billof Fare to be had
1 at tho bar- , ,
The Lodging Rooms will b-; completely fnrr.itnj"!, and
the utmost attention paid to de&nlitiefa, and cvefy other
0 ■ requiCtc. . t h
0- B*muel Ricuarukt will behappy to receive,,an«
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Peblic at
I large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
j himfelf that nothing or his part {hall be wanting to pre
fervethat patronage with which he has been so diflinguMh-
ingly honored.
Philadelphia, April 19. mwf
Dr. Perkins
In»o*ms the Citizens of Philadelphia, that he has taken
lodgingifor a few days, at the Indian Queen, in 4th
1 i street. He will be happy to wait on any ptrfons in this
r city, between the hours of 9 and 1, who wife to latisfy
i themselves ol the efficacy of his
'• patent metallic points,
0 Alnd will operate gratis for the relief of the poer : the
0 instruments, and the right of using them, are for sale at 3
his lodgings.
0 'Subjoined, are Extra&s from a Pamphlet, containing raa-
O ny remarkable cases, attested by charaAers of the high
c. efl refpeiftability.
o Eitracis from. Letters to ike Author of the Metallic Difcevtry. *i CJ
0 Piesjont Edwards, Esq. Diftria Attorney for the liate
of Cotmedticut.
0 New-Haven, OSober 7, I"y6.
.Dear Sir,
I fhouldhave written you last week, had I then brsn ; r
0 able to ascertain certain fids, the rumour of which I scad y
~ heard. A Mrs. Beers, a near neighbour to me, the wife
10 | of Eben Beers, an,d <hugh«cr of captain Samuel Hnggins, ( j
~ | of this town, had been, for !ourtee« weeks, exceedingly
i diftrelled with the Rbeuniatilin, to such a degree th»c for
J0 fourteen weeks previous to the 29th of lall month, fee f(
j' had not keen able to walk across the room even with crut
e ches, five only once, when fee made out with the slii.l
---j auee of crutches to hobblepart of the way acroisher room.
n On the »9th of September last, fee procured a set of your 11
metallic fubftauces, and in less than an hour after fee had C
bef;un to ule them, in the manner directed by you, fee ft
' ' role from her chair, and walked ajiout her house, and 011
ft ' the next day fee went abroad to her ntfighbours, having
thrown aside her a utches. I have this day plaid her a visit
in company with her father, and Timothy Jones, Esq.
tie who lives in the street where fee resides and dire&ly op- ?
v- posit-; tft her residence, and with Capt. Abel Barrett, who
's, is her next neighbor, and lives within eight yards of her
if door. I reqnetled her to relate ht:r cafe over in their
prefeace, which the did, and these gciitUmen all with one
i- voice, fuppo-ted, froai their own knowledge, her story.- v
id It i. a duty which you owe yocrfelf and the world to pro
mulge this event. / I am, very refpeCh'ully, jr
Your obedient f»rvant,
PIRRPONT tfiWARCS . j,
N. B. She lays her fever has left her, her appetite hat „
returned, and she is in a fair way le be relieved to perl tit f (
health.
_ a Rev. Mr. Spalding, of Salem. ai
]n This may certify, that the fubferiber, in his visits among t<
his people, has used Dr. Perkins's metallic peints, to re- ii
x lieve paici, and inflammations of various kinds, and has f'
fuceeedcd to his ailomlhmtnt. They have seldom failed c
' to relieve the head-acb, t«eth-ach, ague in the face, in- *
flanimation in the eyes, cramp, cholic, rhemnatifm, pains c
of the breatt and fide, biles, scalds and burns—Sometimes
there has been a perfect cure from one operation. A lad '
' who had been confined three days with high fymptenis of *
lie a fever, very hot and full of pain, by an operation of the I
y points, dw'figned to relieve his head, his face -turned pa4e
and cold, his fever and pain immediately left him, and in
a few days he wuseut of doors % tiie year bdore, at the
fame tfeitfon, he was taken with the lame symptoms, and
lay extremely sick Jorty days. The efficacy of the metal
lic points has gained grejit credit in this town.
JOSHUA SPALWNG. \
D«crf*ber 5, 1796.
ReV. EtHANAP. Winchester *
- J certify, th,U; on the aill of March, 1796, I saw Dr.
Perkins's method of cure by pointed metallic inftritmentb, j
tried with iucceij.'in the poor-houfeor bettering-houfe in c
?f- Philadelphia ; eipccially npoa a man who was unable to c
►at lift his hand to his head, as was tried beforehand, but c
ry who after a few minuter operation, was able to remove it a
;et at pleasure ; and in my light, put it wicheafe on the top j
■c- of his head and back of his neck, and in all directions. £
it- Nearly -the lame took place upon a woman ; and
et, a-ll that I saw treated, profeffed that their pains t
:o- after being treated a fliort time : and several came volun-
en tarily, and in my .Hearing thanked the Dr. for cures he
xfe hud performed on them about eight weeks befere, in re- J
ars moving pains from them, which they deefcred had not *
efe lince returned *. —lo that fisom what I saw with my own (
a eyes, and what I have heard, I have great hope» that this
4, methed will greatly tend to alleviate tha nriferies of man- (
:m kind. slhanan wiKchester.
og Philadelphia, April 4, 1796.
■he from a Providence Papar.
Communication.
he Dr. Perkins's invention for removing pains from "the
Hid human body, begins to obtain reputation in proportion
&n» to its utility and efficacy. The simplicity of the operati
thc on was at firft an obfiack to its credit; but the flood of c
vidence in its favor, from a&mal -xpcrimcut, is at length
too powerful to be relisted.
' February?. 4»we«tf
* 1
*v ' ' jajg k - V, -
£> NOTICE.
T HE LANDS of. the Uw'.ed Sta-,. :.,
North-Wcftern Territory, heretofore advern: ; *
in the several public papers, wii! commence this even
ing, M*he City i Tava n to be coqtijiued, from day
to day, 'till the tenth of MARCH next, if not foeiir
fold.
lan'iiry 4 £
mr. Pickering's Letter.
This Day Publiflied,
AND FOR SALE Br THFf EDITOR,
Pricc three eights of.a Dollar.
THE Letter of the Secretary of State, to Mr. Pinek
ney, Minister Plenipotentiary of the United States, to
the French Republic. February 4. 6t
Particular Peneriilt; WTnT.
50 Quarter-Caiks Tarticuli-r Toieriffe WINE,
Of a superior Quality,
For lale by A. MARPLB IS. W. MO !?*'-_
69 Dqck.-:*: eej
February 8 wf&trl u
wafkington Canal Lot:o>v,
NO. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has ».-horiftd
the underwritten, to raise twenty.fti thousand
two hundred, and fifty dollar*, for the purpose of CiUpv ?
a Cana! through the City of Washington, fro. i th I'oj
tomacto theEaftern Branch Haruour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz -I Prist: of »o,oos dollars, ao,ooo
I ditto 10,000 10,000
7 la ft drawn ■>
Tickets, each { s ' oao «<°oo
6 ditto I,oo« 6,000
lo ditto 400 4,00®
10 ditto 100 4,003
SS ditto so 1,759
5750 ditto li 69,00?
To be raised for tha Canal, 16,15*
j8?0 Prizes, »7J.000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
I7JCO Tickctf. itTctt Bojlirs, - 175,000
The Commiffionei-i have tskill th- Securities re
quired by the aforjfaid aft for payment of
tn'e prizes.
The drawing of this Lottery will cotjimence, without
delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timely '
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not dfipahd'i in fix months after tha
drawing is finifhed, shall be confioercd as relxcuifKd for
die benefit«f the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
/ Stgned j NOT LEY YOyNG,
DANIEL CAKK OIL, e/Q.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEOR&E r/ALKER,
wm M.mwcANSdw;
THOMAS LAW,
« JAMES BARRY.
City as Feb. if $
This Day is PubliJhed,
By BIOREN & MADAN, at their Printing Office,
No. 77, Docfe-ftreet, and fold by the principal
Bookseller* in this City.
'(The American Annual Regifier ;
; Or historical Memoirs of tTie United States, for the
Year 179#.
No. 167. v
D'tflriS of Ptnnfylviwia, lo wit :
Be it remembered, that on the 19th diy of January
j in the Vwenty-firit year of the Independence of the
L United Stages of America, Bioren & Madan of the fair!
diftriiYhawe depofifed itfthis OBlce tile title of a Book
' the Right whereof they claim as Froprietors in the
words following to wit:
" The American. Annual Register, or Hiflorical *
' " Memoirs of the United States, for the yestr 1
* In conformity to the act of the Congress of the
United States entitukd " An ail for the encourage
r ment of learning by fectiring the copies of Maps,
1 Charts and 3ooks, to the authors and proprietors of
; fuck copies during-the time therein mentioned."
, SAMU EL CALDW fcLL,
r Clerk Pennsylvania Diftriil.
t Janaary 15. iaw4
. PURSUANT to a Rrlolve of the Board of Trufteei of
3 Washinbton Acaoeui, in Somerlct County, and
State of Maryland, -
r NO !ICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, _ f
That the office of Principal TeacWer in the laid school (is
vacant.
A GENTLEMAN qualified to teach the higher Greek and
Latin Clallics, Ceography, and the Mathematics, vuh
such other branches ot literature as nfo*l!y taught in iach
schools, would meet with libci-1 encouragement, and, it is
believed, would obtain a very eligible feitlement. For the
' prelent, the Truflees would be witling to contract with a pc.r*
lon capable ort taking charge of a Grammar S.hoel.
Aithis Institution is provided wi;h buildings fufficient to*
accommodate the principal and his tamily, and from seventy
£ t« eighty bovs t ; a library, an excellent pinloibpnicd a.an a
- ihematical apparatui, globes, maps, $ccr~ '
s funds, and is fiuiated in a plentiful and agreeable - part of the
d country ; nothing seems wanting to 1 nk- it rack among the
. ftiotl ulefu! seminaries in thi* part of the Union, but a iuitable
1S character to ptefide in it.
s Propofats mav be addressed to the fubferiber, in Princefs
-1 Anne, in the. neighborhood of the Academy, or to DoCtjr
Martin L Hayme, No 8j» north Third-ftrcet, Pliila
' delphia, or to the Punter hereof.
c 1 EZEKIEL HAYNIE.
e January 10. y. tnfc'Rw
I FOR SALE,
'- A very Valuable Eltate,
Called ru r it -te nh am, situate in th«
town (hip of Upper Derby, sndcOuntypf Delaware,
7 1-1 miles from Philadelphia, itnd half a mile from the
new Wefltrn road containing 230 a»re« of excellent land,
■ 45 of which art good watered meadow, 90 of prime wood
s - land, and tWe reft arable of thu firft quality. There arc
II on the premifesa good two story brick houff, witii 4 tqoHns
0 on a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a ptjntp-wdl
of excellent water in front; a frame barn, ftabl'.a 1
and other convenient buildings ; a fn\okc-hcufe and ttone,
P l'priug-lioufe ; two good apple orchards, and one of peach
es. The ate allin clover, except tltofe immesliafely
- undir tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advantage
of water in each of them, which t suders itpvtuiiarly ™ n "
" veiiient for grazing.
LC Th* situation i< pleasant and healthy, and froai »he r.gh
eultivjitioii of the land, the good neighbourhood, and tho
K vicMiity to the city, it is very luitabie for a gentleciaM*
n country feat.
• s The foregeing is part of the eilatc of Jacob Hartitat%
a ~ deceased and offered for sale by
Mordecai Lewis,
o<sl c 31. taw Surviving Executor
tU PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO,
•h , —No. 119—
C H E S N V T-S T S. E E T.
(Prit* Eight Dollars P*l AADillo.)