tttt of tije Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1507.J
For Hamburgh,
jififfijjL chaT l OT T E,
C. F. Danenberger, Master.
WILL be ready to receive the cargo iii a tew
days, and is a fall failing Haunch, good vef
fe), well found—For freight or paflage, apply to
George Pennock,
No. 103, Mark direct.
July 7- 3""3*
LANDING,
At Walnut-flreet wharf, from on bo»d (hip Man»
chcfcer, Benj. Shewell, mailer, from Bourdcaux,
Bourdeaux Brandy-
Old Claret in hhds.
Medoc Wine in cases
Sauterne do. do.
For Sale by
Thomas Murgatroytf,
No. 11, Walnut-Jlrcet.
Said Ship for Freight or Charter,
r"-3_ Burthen 2So tons, Philadelphia
' biiilt of live Oak and Cedar, will
he ready to fail in a few days.
Apply an above.
July j. ' mwf
FoTSAVANNAH, ~
Swift Packet,
"VfOW lying it Wilcock's wharf;
-LN a regular trader, and well ac
commodated for pafTengers —will fail on Satur
day, Bth inft. For freight or paflage, apply to
the mailer on board, or
N. iff J. Fraxier,
No. 96, Soirth Froot-ttreet.
Who have for file, received by the said fbip.
Prime Rice in whole and half tiecces.
Jyly 1. dtf
For Hamburgh,
the ship
PeNNSYLV ANIA)
David Williamson, Master,
LYING at Willing's wharf—lhe is now ready to
take in, and will fail in 10 days. For terms
of freight ot paflage, apply to
Gurney iff Smith.
June aB. §1
For Sale,
fine and remarkably faft
Virginia and Philadelphia
Refs & Sim/on.
June ta. dlf
The Shareholders
Of the Pennsylvania Population Company,
ARE rcquefted to meet at the Company's Of
fice, No. }3, North Fourth Street> on Saturday
the 15th inft. at la o'clock.
* By order qf the Board,
SOLOMON MAR ACHE, *Sec'ry.
July i. ' f i6t.
Bank of North America.
» . J u/ y '» 1797-
At a meeting of the Diredlors this day, a di
vidend of Six Per C»nt. was declared for the
lift half year, whichw ill b« paid to the Stock
holders or their rtprefentatives, at any time af
ter the lath inft.
July 1. daw.
George Dobfon,
Ne. 25 South Third-Street,
HAS imported per Ihips William Penn, Star,
and Diana, from London,
5-4 Super London Chintz, elegant patterns,
Ginghams, Muflinetts and Dimities.
Fashionable Waiftcoating, newelt patterns.
Ribbands well aflorted, in small trunks
-4-4 5-4 and 6-4 India and Britilh Book-mus
lins.
Fancy Cloaths and Caflimers.
The whole to be disposed of cheap for.Calh
or approved Notes of a (hort date«
June 14, '97. d.tf.
For Sale,
The cargo of the brig Enterprise, Captain
Langdan from Bourdeaux, now landing at
Morton's <wharf,
consiting or
524 hhds. of Claret "j S j
317 cases of ditto j -o
100 fafes of SvTtet Oil )>-S
1.0 pipe, London proof > brandy, j J J
10 pipes of Holland picor 3 J W -o
Apply to
Wharton iff Lewis,
No. 115, South Front St.
Said Brig,
WILL take a FREIGHT for
the Weft-Indies or Europe, fails
burthen about fifteen hun-
barrels, is in Complete or
der, and will be ready to receive a cargo in a
few days . j
Apply as above.
May_24 _ i
An aflortment of Russia Cordage,
AMONGST which are three cables,one of ia,
one of 10 1-a, and the other .7 I-a inches,
and each iao fathoms long
Bolton Sail Duck, No's. I,a, 3. and 4
Bourbon Cotton, of a very superior quality
Ditto Coffee in bags
Isle of France Indigo
A few bales well alforted India Muslins
Spermacaeti Oil
Ditto Candles
Boston Beef, prime and mefis
Codfifh in hog(heads and tierces
Ditto in quintals
Maekarel in 1 arrets
Herrings in ditto
4th proof Brandy, and
A few kegs of Lard
aLSQ,
Just landing from on board the Aiftive, from Ham
burgh,
10 by xx, 8 by i®, and 9 by 1 a Germai Win
dtwv Glass, and a few boxes aflorted Dutch G!afs
Ware, for sale by
Jofcpb Anthony iff Co.
June 27. lot
PHILADELPHIA: SATURDAY EVENING, JULY 3, 1.797..
Be/} Englijh Crown Window Glass.
A well aborted Invoice ofthe best Englilh Crown
Window Glass, of the following sizes:
10 by 8 "]
11 hy 9
ia by 10
14 by 10 2I ? BOXES.
16 by ia
1# hr 14 J
Likewise frefh Rice, high proof Brandy, fieft
mefsßeef, in h*}fl«»«!*i
Sail Cloth, No. 1. to 8.
Sherry Wine.
A few hundred weight of excellent Dutch Pistol
and Rifle Gun Powder—and,
Thirty Boxes Chocolate.
For Sale by,
Samuel Bred, fun.
No. 89, Sonth Thirdflreet.
June ax. eoxot.
NOTICE.
THE fubferiber havingfent by the ship Nancy,
Capt. Perry, the following certificates of the
United States bank Hock, to wit :
No. 26,005, to 26,014, inclusive, for three
shares each—and the said veflel having been cap
tured on her intended voyage to England, which
will mod probably occalion the loss of the said
certificates, gives this puTjlic notice,
That he shall apply at the proper offices for a re
newal of them, and that means have been taken
to prevent any improper transfer.
Henry Philips,
Ho. lia,South Front-(lreet.
June r. 3aw6w
POST-OFFICE.
Philadelphia, 6th July, '97.
THE mail for AVxo Ca/lle, Cautwell's 61 itlge,
Duck Creek croft roads, Dover, Erederita, Mil
ford, George Toi (in the place of Clowes) and
Dagjborough, in Delaware ; 'Trap and. Snaiw*
bill, in Maryland ; Horn Town, Accomack C.
H. and Northampton C. H in Virginia ; %»iU
be closed every Monday, Wednesday, and Friday,
atfunfet. lßt
1
A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRST & ad proof,
Gin, of 4th proof, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds
Old Hock, in cases of 40 dozen each
Glass Tumblers, in pints and half-pints
Window Glalii, in boxes, of different fi/.«s
Hazlemrts, in Kicks
Whiting
& Spanilh Brown )
For Sale by
• PETER BLIGHT.
Jinuary 4 1).
Hofs & Simfon,
Have for Salt,
A QUANTITY OF PRIMF
St. Domingo Cotton,
Superior Old Lilbon Wine in Pipes
Excellent India Market
Teneriffe Wine,
In Madeira Calks
A few Quarter Chests best
Frelh Hyson and ) t-cao
Hyson Skin ) ItAS
Muscovado Sugars in Hogsheads, and
Coflee in Tierces
March 7. |jtf
Erfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBHRT CAMPBELL & Co.
No. 40 South Second street,
fPrice 31 Cents}
A View of the Causes and Conferen
ces of theprefent War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskine.
May ij §
GABRIEL DECOMBAZ,
BOOKSELLER & STATIONER,
Begs leave to inform the public that he has re. ,
moved his Shop to AO. 3a, South Thirdflreet,
AND HAS JUST PUBLISHED, ,
( Neatly bound and lettered, price a dols. a 5 cts.)
Ibe Adventures of Telemacbus. \
French and Englilh, a vols. iamo. ,
AMONG the books which daily fall ipto the <
hands of the yquth of both sexes, none 1
have a higher claim to their attention than Tele
machus. The mofl interesting leflons are here '
conveyed in the vehicle of an interesting Poem,
replete with the fineft touches of the true pa- 1
tbttie, and embcllftied with ajl the graces of a \
beautiful style. The fatal effedls of indulging |
the paflions are exemplified in the molt linking
manner ; and the happiness attending iijno- ■
cence and virtue painted in the liveliest colouVs. 1
Whatever can incite to virtue or deter from '
vice ; whatever can enlighten the understand- 1
ing, charm the imagination, and improve the 1
heart, is to be found in this interesting work. (
THE NAVAL GAZETTEER; i
Being a eomplete Geographical Diaionary, 1
containing a full and accurate account, alpha- '
betically arranged, of all the countries and isl
ands in the known world i Blowing their lati- !
ude, foundings, asd stations for anchorage ;
with a particular description of the feveralßays, '
Capes, Channels, Covis, Creeks, Currents,
Gulfs, Harbours, Havens, Lakes, Oceans, Ra- i
ces, Rivers, Road 3, Rocks, Sands, Shoals,
Sounds, Straits, Tides, Variation of the Com
pass &c. Together with a particular relation
6f the fliape and appearance at sea, of the fevi
ral Headlands, Ifthmbfes, Peninsulas, Points,
Promontories, and whatever is of use or impor
tance to the Mailer, Pilot, Commander, or
Seaman of any fbip or veflel, ia navigating the I
watery element.
Also Comprehending
Ample Diredlions for failing into or out ofthe >
different Ports, Strait*, and Harbours of the I
four quarters of the world ; and for avoiding j
dangers on the various and extended coasts ; in I
whieh more than twelvethoufand diftinft names 1
of places, are treated of and explained. With i
a carreft let of Charts, 2 vols. Bvo. price 6 dols. ;
By the Rev. JOHN MALHAM, 1
0" This has been pronounced the most cfe
ful and the cheap*ft book publiihed in America.
June ai. 4tf.
By John Fenno, N° 119 Chefnut Street.
CAUTION.
TT7-HEREAS William Shannon, AuAi
n T .°! leer r, h ' ith ' in Claypoole's American
Uaily Advertiser of this day, adverlfed for public
sale, on to-morrow the Blh inilaiit, 1 aapital
builoing Lot, on the north tide of Mulherrv
ftreet, between Sixth and Seventh fttrseis, boun3-
ed and otherwise described aS in the said adver
ti.'ement is mentioned—All persons are hereby
tautioi.einotto purchase the fame, as ihe e«juit
tdble tit.e thereto vefttd m tile Prefident ,*Di
aaors, and Cnmpnny of Bank »f the United
states, who mean to progcedNtt law for the re
covery thereof.
By order of the Direflors,
George Simp/on, Cashier '*
J"'y 1• d 2t .
I he Commissioners f
'P'OR carrying into efTeA the Cxth article of the
trC^' r am '^' eommerce and navigation, con
cludedietween his Britannic majesty and the United
States df America, en the 19th day oY November,
1794, hiving this day conftkuted their Board,
pursuant and agreeably to the said treaty, do here
by give notice, that they are ready to proceed to
bulinefs accordingly; and they desire that all claims
under the said article (which so far as the fane de
scribes the cases thereby provided for, is hereunto
annexed) may be lodged with their Secretary with
out delay.
They further desire that all such claims may not
on.y Kate in what manner the several cases come
within the description of the said ertide, but also
fpcciahy set forth ihe nature of the evidence by
which the claimantsrcl'peAively undertake to sub
stantiate the fame.
Extract from the said article,
" Whereas it is alledged by divers Pritifh mer
" chants, and others his majefty't, fubje<sls, that
debtii to a confid'. rabln ampuut, which were bona
" fide contraAed, before the peace, still "remain
" owing to there by citizens or inhabitants of the
nitcd btatcs j and that by the operation of va
" rious lawful impediiiKnt , f Hce tho peace, not
" only the full recovery of the said drhu has been
" delayed, but also the value au4 iecurity thereof
" have been in several instances impaired and less
" ened, so that by tbe ordinary course of judicial
" proceedings, the British creditors cannot sow
" obtain and actually have and receive full and
" adequate coropenfation for the losses and dama
" ges which tney have thereby fuf:ained: It is a
" greed that in all such cases where full compenfa
" tion for such losses and damages cannot for what
" ever reason be adually obtained, lkad and recei
" ved by the said creditors in the ordinapy "courf?
•' of justice, the United States will make full and
" complete compensation for the lame to the said
" creditors : but it is diftinaly understood, that
" this provision is to extend to such losses only as
" have been occasioned by tjie lawful impediments
" afore said, and is not to extend to losses occasion
" ed by such insolvency of the debtors or other
" causes, as would equally have operated tp pro
" duce such loss, if the said impediments had not
" cxifted ; nor to such losses or damages as have
" been occasioned by t,he manifeft delay, or nco-li.
ft t e ucc, or wilful omiflion of the claimant." °
By order of the Board,
- GRIFFITH EVANS,
Secretary.
Philadelphia, Commiffieners* Office,
No. 3 south Sixth-street, May 29,
. *79 7- J 6—§l m
I Hfc. SUBSCRIBtR hiving been appointed by
I. the Envoy Extrio.'diiniy and M nifter Pleni
potentiary of hia Britannic, Majesty, General Agent
for«fbding British creditors, and such particular a
gents as they may specially authorize, in prosecuting
their claims before the cammiffioners for carrying in
to <!ffe£l the fiwh article lit the Treaty if Amity, Com
merce and Navigation betaeen hit Hritur.nic and
the United States of America, hereby gives nonce thpt
he hps opened his office at his houfc the fbuth ealt
corner of Chefnut and fifth ftreefs, Philadelpjiia,
where he is ready to receive all claims or inltruftirsns
for claiips with the vouchers ami documents thereof,
for the purpose of bringing forward the l.ime agree
ably so the rules and orders which the board may
think proper to prescribe.
Ana as it will be for the interctt of all concerned,
that the several claims be so Itatcri, and fupport
td, as 10 prevent the delay which would arise from
the neceffuyof obtaining further imormation, or ad
ditional materials,from perfo»s nfiding at a distance,
the general agent thinks it his duty to add, (for the
direction chiefly-of those, who, not having employ
ed particular agents, may leave the prolecutiop of
their claims ta his charge and management) that all
fncf) claims ought in particular to set forth—
id. The proper description aud fuoation of the
creditor or claimant, eud original debtor, refpec'-
ively.
.id. The date or nature of the original contrafl or
debt. |
3d. When, in what manner, and to what extent, j
the creditor or claimant was prevented or impeded,
by the provision, operation or defect of law, the
decisions and prance of courts, or reflraint of exe- I
cution, from recovering payment of the debt in 1
quefhon. I
4th. The loss and damage incurred or fuflained, I
in consequence of such impediments, whether the 1
fame may have arisen from the infolvenev, change of 1
situation, or death of the debtor, the loss of legal ,
remedy from laple of time, or ethercaufes impairing
the value and focurity of the debt, which would not
have so operated if such impediments-had not existed.
And sth. The particular grounds and reasons on
which the claimant maintains, in the terms of the 1
treaty, that "by the ordinary course of judicial pro- '
ings, the creditor cannot now obtain and aftually .
have and Teceive full ar.d adequate compensation" for
the losses aod damages so fufialUed,
The (pneral agent thinks it his duty farther to fog
ged that the several claims ought to be accompanied "
and supported by the affidavits of -the claimants duly
sworn and regularly attefled, both as to the exiflence
of the debts claimed, aod such other circumstances
as may be within tbeir own knowledge refpeftively.
And wherever the claimants in slating the nature of
their evidence (which mull in everv inflance be the
best of which the cafe is capable) have occafton to
refer to the teftimonv of witnelfes, it will -be proper
to apprise the general agent of the names and places
of residence of such witnesses and the fa&tto be elta
blifhed by their testimony.
Wm. Moore Smith.
Philadelphia, June Bth, 1797. ditn_
For Sale,
That well knozun place, called
t PR ay, .
ON Nefhaminv creek, 18 miles frßm Phi
ladelphia, on tbe New York 'post roatf,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
premises are a large two ltery stone house occu
pied as a tvern, and a gppd one flpry stone kit
chen, a large frame stable with a good threshing
floor, and I'ome out buildings—also a Well of
good wafer, and an excellent ice House. On
this place is a molt elegant situation forg gentle
man's feat, commanding a view of the Nefhapi
iny to its jun&ion wiih the Delaware, aud thence
acrofsto the Jersey shore. It has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the Sfiblcriber,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
May 24. .3 f -wtf.
r STATE TRIALS.
Sold by W, Young, BookfelUr, No. sa, South Se
-1 cond-ftreer,
j The Pennsylvania State Trials,
the impeachment, trial, and acquit-
VJ al of FranciJ Hopkins, Jfidgtf-of the Court of
Admiralty, and John Kicjio'tfon, Comptroller Gen
eral—ln one large 8 vo. rol. Price, in hoards, 3
dollars.
W Youno has for sale, a genera! assortment of
Book;. Also, Stationary, retail and by the pack-
a £ e . well sfforted, and entitle to the drawback if
■ exported. f„4 r 7 l_« n
LANDING
From 011 board schooner Daphne, captain
G. W. Mprfe, from Htfpaniola,
6i,00@ wt. SiJgar,
J3,000 Coffee
for sale by
F. COPPINGER,
No. 221, South .Front-street,
Who has also on hand,
Claret in hhds. and cases j
Rice
A quantity of Bristol Bottles
A cafe of Cambrics
Cloths and Caflimeres. '
_ July?. d6t.
FOR'SALE, "
BRET AGNES' in
German Checks in dp.
CambncTc
«atfffla»
Qznabrig?
Gold and (iiver Watches
WindowOJaftf loby S
Glass Tumblers in cases
Linfced Oil in calks, See. See.
George Pennack,
103, High'Str&t.
July 5- aaw
Bank of United States.
zd July, 1797.
THE Directors havs this day declared a Divi
dend of Sixteen Dollars on each fhate for the last
fix months ; which will be paid ta the Stockhold
ers after the 13th inft.
G. SIMPSON, Cashier
3t
NOTICE.
ANY of the citizen? who may be inclined to ac
commodate Members of Congress with beard
and lodging during the next session, will please
to forward their address, as soon as possible, to the
fubferiber, at Congress Hall—Whs also wishes to
hear of some ready furnifhed lodgings, with the
use of a ki'chet. Likewise of a front drawing
room, well furnifhed, and two good bed rooms,
with board for a small family, in which there will
be two servants. THOMAS CLAXTON.
July 3- 3£_
The Commissioners
FOR carrying inta esseS the TWENTY-FIRST
Article of the Treaty of Friendihip, Limits,
and Navigation, between His Catholic Majelly
and the United States of America, hereby give in
formation to all Persons therein oonccrned, —That,
in order t® terminate all differences, on account of
the lefles sustained by the Citizens of the United
States, in' conference of tjieir Vessels and Car
goes having b»cn taken by the Subjects of His Cath
olic Afaiefly, during the late War between Spain
and Fralcr, that they are ready t« receive (at thair
Office, between the hours of tcrj and one o'clock,
daily; all complaints and applications, authorized
by the said Article, during £iGin f.in Mp.NTns
from the day of the date heresf, and that they have
power to examine all such persons as tome before
them, ->noath or affirmati«n, touching the com
plains in qt|e!lion, and alfp to receive in evidence,
all written teftimoDy, authenticated in such map.
ner as they (ball think proper to require or admit.
By Order of the CtmmiJJioiters,
PETER LOHKA,
Secretary.
C. mmUftotpr* Qjfifti Ao. 109, fAulberry
reel, Pbitfidelphifi, tyay i?th, 1797.
20_-f4w
i : ? —r r*-r-r —: ■r> ji 1 I■■ ■ ■ lia -j
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School fpr young Ladies.
MRS. QHOOMBKIDGE with much pleaf
ureand refpeft, returns her sincere ac?
kfiowlc-dgemcnt for the liberal encouragement
she hat received durinfe four years relidcnce in
Philadelphli ; and afiures her friends and the
public, fp far from intending to decline her
t'hool, Ihe has made a fiiperior a-frangement for
the convenient jccoSsmoda'tirti ps her
fcholars.—rF.very branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended to by MrS.
Groombridge and matters excelling in their
refpedlive profWTions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, x 797. tfimitf
The situation is perfeflly healthy ; and made
more agreeable hy an extensive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the Jioufe.
Nathaniel Lewis & Son,
Have for sale at their Jlore, No. 70, adjoining,
George Latimer C5 1 Son, Pine-flreet Wharf,
A Quantity of
Madeira Wines
In pipe? and half pipes
adeira Walnuts and Citron, lately imported
. in the schooner Sincerity,' Capt. Copia
Also, • >
»5 Puncheons, second and tKrd proof, IVeft-
India Rum, and a few Pipes of Brandy
They have conftantfy on hand and for sale,
French Burr and Coun'ry Mill Stone, of various
fizej, and a general aflortment of Boultiug Cloths of
the best quality, hoth American and Foreign ma
nufacture. The former having 1 proved, from se
veral .years experifnee of a number of millers in
different parts of the United States at lead equal,
and in many isflances fiiperior to the European
Clothe, we hope the (manufacturer, Robert Daw
foil, will meet with liberal encouragement in this
important and ufeful undertaking. He has obtain
ed a patent and exclusive right of making and
vending Builting Cloth on his improved plan for a
number ®f years, and they are fold' only by him- .
felf in Lattcafter, state of Pennsylvania, and by
the fubferibers in Philadelphia.
June 14 d
For Sale,
THE time of a smart, adive Negro Boy, who
has about tixtf.n years ts serve
A poly to the Printer.
June 30. Si'
On TUESDAY evening next, the mh toft,
will be (bid by public audlion, at the Mer
chants Coffeehouse for account of the con
cerned, being deposited as collateral security-
Sundry Promissory Notes,
Drawn by John Nicholfon iit favour of, and
indorsed by David Allifon. The said notes are
all due and have b?en regularly protested :or non
payment. I hey have.been originally given for
a full and valuable cotifideration—are clear of
any dispute or defalcation and will be received
equal to specie for (hares in the Pennsylvania
L»pd CojUpany .tail -will of course be a great
übjeift «f Speculation.
Apprevcd eudoriid uotes at sixty days will tie
received in payment.
July 6, 1797. *d 5 t
Town Lots.
A TOWN named BEULA, one mile square,
being laid out on the Blacklick Creek, Soi.i
erfet County, Pennfylvania,Lots therein of 58 feet
by 125 feetatenow felling at ten dollars each ;
their lituation in the town to be determined by
ballot before the firft of August, and deeds for the
fame will be deliverd by the üblcriber before the
firft of O (Sober next.
MORGAN J. RHEES;
No. 77, bouth Second-lirect, Philadelphia.
The pnrchafers eflotsin Beula have the following
piefpeiftsof appreciating their property :
I. it is remote trom any other town, and fur
reuaded by great bodies ot excellent land, capable
ol producing every kind of grain and vegetables,
and is without doubt one ef tlie bcU grazing coun
tries in the United States.
1. In point of health the situation is not exceed- 1
ed by any on the continent.
3. Belides numerous Iprings and runs, of the fin
eft quality, there is a creek for wafer works (on
which nulls are now building) running through the
tswn,
4. The public road from Philadelphia to Pitts
burgh will go through It, which being more level
and nearer than any other rout, must become uni
versally travelled : aided by the navigation of Ju
niata and Conemaugh, goods may be conveydd at
least J or 3 dollars per cwt. cheaper from the lor
mer to the latter place, tKan by the old road thro'
Bedford.
J. Being in the centre of a fWurifliing settle
ment, and taking in the Ihprtett portage between
the eastern and western waters, it is likely to be
come a deposit forftores, a manufacturing town,
and a feat of justice. Besides the old fettlsrs, up
wards of one hundred emigrants have fettled in the
viciHity of Beula, since last OSober, and many
more have engaged to join them this summer.
6. A Land-Office for supplying adual settlers
with farms to a considerable amoui.t, and in vari
ous situations, will be immediately opened in the
town. The proprietors of land in the circumja
cent country are f.licited to fend their drafts and
terms of sale, or leaiing, to Thomas Jones, Sur
veyor, in Beula, who will give.security fpr any
trust reposed in him : with such co-operating aid,
the progress of the settlement will be the more ra
pidly advanced and extended to distant townlhips.
7. A public library for the benefit of the settlers,
will be ellablifhed in the town, towards laying the
foundation of which, upwards of one thousand
volumes are already pur chafed and principally sent
8. Iwo hundred acres of land adjoining the
town, besides lots and fubferiptions, will be applied
to support a minister and preceptor, capable of
teaching the ufeful and liberal arts.
9. After defraying ijeceffary expences, the mo
ney arising from the present sales will be laid out ia
public buildings.—A place of worship, school
houfcand library room, are the firft obje&s.
I®. Every profeffiotial man and mechanic, on
condition ot building a houfc with a stone or biick
chimney, and residing in it, before the firft of No
vember next, will be entitled to four lots gratis,
free forever from ground rent. Five apd ten acre
out lots may likewise be obtained 00 rcafonable
terms.
The two central streets in Beula are ico
feet wide, and the oth.rs 80 feet. Reserved fquaree
ond oth-r accommodations must add to the health
and beauty of the place.
July 6. 5t
hoarding and Lodging
FOR single gentlemen may lie had at No.
ll4> Sixth-street, corner of Race.
Some apartments to be let at the above place.
July 6. *at.
J ll it Received.
From Batavia (via Providence)
150 Sacks of Java Coffee of firft quality
' aoo half faciei do. do.
a few Box«sof Spires, confifiing of
Nutmegs, Cloves and Mace
• For sale by
HILLINC-S & FRANCIS,
Pemwfireet.
May 30 dtf
Now Landing,
At Pratt's ivharf
FROM on board the ship Thomas Chalkley,
Capt. Rafer, from Bourdeaux,
CLARET in cafiu '
Ditto in eases
White Wine Vinegir
Red Skin; in boxes
For Sale by
Run die & beech.
; May is _ §
To be Sold,
A large and /Knyetiient
Story Brick House;
SITU \TE at the north-east corner of Arch and
Fpurth-ftrcets. It contains eighteen rooms—
and is in every reflect well finifhed. For particu
lars enquire of
M. Keppele,
No. 138, Chernut-ftreet.
May 3 I. £_
just Imported,
In the ship Rebecca, from St. Croix,
Prime Sugar and K um
40,00b wt of Windward Island Coffee
A quantity of choice Madeira Wine.
James Yard,
South fide Walnut street Wharf.
June 47. d6t
Will be Landed,
From onboard the ship A&ive, Capt.Blair,from
Hamburgh,
jo bales white Rulfia clean Hemp
a casts Clover Seed
For Sale by
Thopias Herman Leuffer,
North Fifth street, No. 34-
June 36. §
{Volume. Xli. <CONGR£SS.
. MOUSE o? kRPRESEh'TATtVES,
Tuesda?, July 4.
The House met this morning at nine
ti'clock. , - ■»
Thfc liill allowing an additional mileage
to the members of both hotifes } thf bill
confuls and vice-iconfuls, and the
bill making additional appropriations for
the year 1 "797, were read the third and
parted.
Mr. called up the resolution
he ye ft.;rday laid «pon the' table, for laying
an additional duty on fait.
Mr, Gallatin moved to postpone the
the consideration of thispropofition until the
second Monday in November.
Some debate tools'place oq this question ;
and, when it came to be taken, the house
was equally divided, there being 43 votes
Votes for the postponement atld 43 against
it, The Speaker decided agajnft the post
ponement, and the resolution was referred
to a committee of the whole and made the
order for to-morrow. /
The house accordingly resolved itfelf into
a committee of the whole on this resolution ;
when
Mr. Allen moved the blank cents per
bushel, be filled with twelve.
Mr. SkjjrANwicK wilhed the sum to be
seven.
s*, Mr. Allen consented to make it eight.
Mr. Sitgkeaves, hoped it would be
twelve. .
The question was firft taken upon twelve
and negatived, there being only 30 votes for
it* It was next taken upon eight and a
greed to 47 to 42, and then upon the reso
lution as amended, and carried by the fame
number.
The committee rose, and the house took
up the resolution.' After a few words from
Mr. Lyon against the tax, and from Mr.
Williams in favor of it, Mr. W. Smith
went at considerable length into a defence
of the measure, in the course of which, he
said, they had already agreed upon appro
priations to the amount of 7 or 80c,OOO
dollars, jjnd weve not certain of any revenue
to meet the expenditure. The licence adt
he believed might produce from 50 to 60
thousand dollars, and the stamp aft from
100 to 150,00© dollars, if they (hould.be
palfed, but; he considered this as doubtful.
But if these laws were parted, this tax on
fait was neceflary ro keep up the equilibri
um of taxation > for the stamp aft would
almost exclusively fall upon commerce and
large cities, this would be principally felt
by the Agricultural part of the Union ; and
if it were not agreed to, they must have a
land tax. . , .
Mr. Shepard said no tax would operate
so equally as a fait tax, as every citizen must
make use of it in a smaller or larger quantity.
Mr. Gallatin opposed this tax on the
fame ground which he heretofore opposed
it, as opprefiive to certain parts of the U
nion, and .no way affedting others, and
therefore wholly unequal, and particularly
as it bore heavy upon the poorer clafles of
society. He was against it also, because
it was not proposed that the amount of this
tax (hould go towards a reduction of the
public debt, butmerelyto encourageexpence
in the government; for he believed if they
filled the treasury with money, means would
be found to expend it. Indeed, if the trea
sury had not been at present in rather a low
state, he believed they (hould have gone in
' to most of the expensive measures proposed
to them thi's feflion. He allowed the
tax would be produdtive, as a tax upon
bread, air, or any neceflary of Use, must be
produ&ive. If this tax were, however .to
•be.agreed to, he (hould wish to make an a
mendment to the present proportion At
present the drawback allowed to the New-
England states, on account of the fait used
in the fifheries, amounted to 90,000 dollars
a year, though by the ftatementit appeared
there (hould only have been allowed 50,000.
To rectify this, he proposed the following
proviso to be added to the resolution, viz.
" Provided that the allowance now given u
pon veflels employed in filheries, (hall not be
increased-"
This amendment was opposed by Mr.
Harper, Mr. Sewall, Mr. Dana and Mr.
Kittera. on the ground of its being an un
fair way of introducing the proportion, as
no one expedted it, they were not prepared
to meet it, the corredtnefs of the statement
was doubted ; and if it were corredt, it was
said, the proper.way of doing the business
would not be to pass the present law with
out a drawback, but to reduce the former
drawback and make it less on this occasion.
The motion was supported by the mover,
and Meflrs. Venable and Livingfton ; but,
after some difcuflion, Mr. G. withdrew it,
in order to give gentlemen time to make
themselves acquainted with the fahe had
stated ; but he exprefled his intention of re
newing the proportion when thebillcame in.
The question then returned upon the ori
ginal resolution ; when '
Mr. Harper went at length into a de
fence of the measure, (in the course of which
he charged Mr. Gallatin with being mista
ken by 12,000 dollars as to the amount of
the drawback allowed) and infilled that it
, was a fair and proper tax andthat so small an
advance upon the present duty could not o
perate oppressively upon any class of the
community.
Mr. Nicholas followed in opposition.
He dwelt considerably on the unjust and un
equal manner in which this tax would ope
rate. He said he did not view this queftion
a i deciding merely whether an additional tax
of eight cents (hould be laid upon fait ; but
whether that neceflary of life (hould be cal
led up for every thing government (hould
want, He was in favour of a dire A tax
which (hould fall equally, though it might,
in the origin, be attended with some cpnfi
- derable expencebut, If they went on rai
ling partial sums in this way by indirect
means, the cxpence of instituting a direst
tax would always be an obstacle, and indi
rect taxea would eonftatitly be had recourse
to. He did not believe it to be absolutely
'neceflary to provide a revenue this feflion,
as he believed money mighf as well be bor
rowed without as with additional revenue,
and next feflion the fuhjedt could be fully
gone into,
My. Lyon spoke ps the difepntent which
had always been (hewn in 'the part of the
country from to'hertce he came, whifch he
said, would be greatly increased by this ad
\ dition. It was not only a duty of eight
cents ; every cent would be made four,
before the fait reached them. There was no
kind of tax which his constituents would not
foonerbear. It had been said that a land
tax would cost 25 per cent, to colledt it, but
what was 25 per cent, compared with 300
per cent ! Nor did he believe this tax would
prevent a land tax ; he believed they (hould
go on taxing the people until they would
be greatly diflatisfied. He Would much
rather a tax of eight cents was laid upon tea,
which would produce an equal sum.
The question was taken by yeas and nays
a3 follow :
YEAS#
Meflrs. Allen, Baer, Bayard, Brookes,
Champlin, Cochran, Coit, Craik, Dana,
Davenport, Dennis, Dent, Evahs, A. Fos
ter, D. Foster, J. Freeman, Goodrich,
Gordon, Grifwold, Harper, Hartley, Hind
man, Hofmer, Imlay, Kittera, Lyman,
Matthews, Morris, Otis, Potter, Reed,
Schureman, Sewall, Shepard, Sinnickfon,
Sitgreaves, J. Smith, N. Smith, W. Smith,
(Charles.) Swanwick, Thatcher, Thomas,
Thomson, Van Alen, Wadfworth, J. Wil
liams—46. ,
NAYS.
Meflrs. Baldwin, Baird, Benton, Brent,
Bryan, Burgess, Cabell, Claiborne, Clay,
Clopton, Davis, Dawfon, Elmendorf, Fow
ler, Gallatin,. Gillefpie, Grove, Hanna,
Havens, Holmes, Jones, Locke, Lyon,
Machir, Macon, M'Clenachan, M'Dowell,
Milledge, New, Nicholas, Skinner, W.
Smith', (P.) Sprigg, Staodford, Sompter,
A. Trigg, J.-Trigg, Van Cortlandt, Var
num, Venable, K. Williams— 41.
After the firft call was fini(hed, Mr.
Blount came in and said he was called out to
the door, and from the noise without doors,
he had not heard his lyime called. His
vote being refufed to be admitted he said he
(hould then call the yeas and nays on the
palling of bill.
A committee was appointed to report a
bill in pursuance of thyi resolution. A mo
tion was now made (about half past twelve)
to adjourn. Adjourned till 9 to-morrow.
Wednesday, July 5.
A bill was reported for laying a duty up
on fait, which was twice read, and ordered
to be committed this day, after a motion
was loft for postponing it till the second
Monday in November, 39 to 33.
Mr. W. Smith called the order ofthe
day on the bill authorising a loan of mo
ney.
The House went into a committee of the
whole on the fubjedt, when
Mr. W. Smith moved to fill the blank
in which was to be inserted the money to be
borrowed, with 800,000 dollars, which, he
said, was about the amount of the appro
priations of the present feflion.
Mr. Gallatin said it perhaps was net
very material as to the exadt sum V'ith
which this blank. was filled ; but the ap
propriations of this feflion did not amount
to that fnm. 150,000 dollars had been- ap
propriated for the fortifications, and the a
mount of the appropriation bill was 567;
000, which did not make quite 700,000
dollars, and there* would certainly be a con
siderable overplus of revenue to meet in
part this expense.
Mr. Harper did not believe there would
be much overplus of revenue ; there woußl
be some, but it could not be said how mijch,
as there would doubtl<;fs be considerable de
falcations, from the inability of merchants
to pay their bonds. He did not think the
blank (hould be filled with a less sum than
800,000 dollars.
Mr. W. Smith said, besides the two
items mentioned by the gentleman from
Pennsylvania, there was 10 or 15,000 dol
lars appropriated for agents under the Brj
ti(h treaty. There was also another article
wfeich might be agreed to in the course of
the feflion, which /hould be included in the
loan. There could be no inconvenience
from giving authority to borrow a larger
film than required, as it would be drawn
only as it was wanted, and the interest to
be charged only from the time the money
was got. The surplus «f revenue, as his
colleague had stated, was very precarious,
600,000 dollars might be fufficient; but of
that there was no certainty.
Mr. Gallatin did not know why gen
tlemen should wish to increase this sum be
yond the appropriations of this feflion, ™
there was already authority in the commis
sioners of the finking fund to borrow more
money than they could get. He believed
the of revenue would be fufficient;
as last year there was an increase of 700,000
dollars. And- this year there would not
be a less sum. He wished to have the blank
filled with the amount of the appropriations,
viz. 697,000 dollaars,
Mr. W1 lliams was in favor ofthe lar
ger sum.
The queftion-for filling the blank with
800,000 dollars was put and carried 43 to
34- 1 '
The committee fofe, and the bill tvas or
dered to be engrofled for a third reading
this day, which it afterwards received and
pafled.
The house went into ? committee on the
bill for laying an additional duty on fait ;
wlien • •»
Mr. Gallatin moved to strike out all
that related to the allowing of,a drawback
to veflels employed in the lifting trade, on
the ground which,he yesterday stated, vjz.
that the allowance at present made was too
large by 40,000 dollars a year, taikihg the
year J 794 for his data ; butjt appeared
that, in the year 1795, there was a deficien- ;
cy in that, trade, owing principally, it was
supposed, to the great demand for seamen
in the merchants service ; he therefore
would take the calculation of the gentleman
from S. Carolina (Mr. Harper) made yes
terday, And niftead of calling the amount
of drmfrbick allowed 90,000 he would state
it to be '78,000, and even then he said, the
drawback at present allowed would exceed
20,000 dollars, the drawback to which they
would be entitled, if the present duty took
place. He spoke jp:nerally against the tax
as oppreflive to the .back country ; but if
the gentleman from Mafiachufetts and oth
ers, were determined to mcreafe the tax,
he (hould wi(h their part of the country tcr
pay their lhare of it.
' This motion was supported by Meffr9.
Venable,. Nicholas, Clay, M'Dowell and
Macon.
It was oppofed4>y Messrs. Sewall, Otis,
Harper, Coit, Brookes, Kittera, J. Wil
liams and The calculation of the
quantity of fait estimated to he necessary to
| be used sot ar quintal of fi(h, was said to be
stated too low (one buftiel), that the sum
allosfed, was not qnly meant as a draw
back of the duty, but also ai a bouuty on
the filhing trade, as being a nursery for sea
men, and serving as a kind'of naval militia
for the United States? If it appear,
however, that the present allowance was
too great (which, by some gentlemen in fa
vor of this iriotfon, which was in blank,
seemed t<i be acknowledged) a less allowance
might be made in this bill ; but they could
not consent to the bill pafling without a
drawback.
The question for striking out the clause
was taken, and negatived 49 to 41;
Mr. Coit moved to fill the blank with
50 per cent, infteadof 66 2-3<is, which was
the drawback allowed by the present law.
Mr. Hartley thought this sum too
h ('g h -
Mr. Williams moved 33 1 -3d per cent,
which was carried without a division.
Mr. Nicholas moved a limitation clause,
to continue the aft in force for two vears,
and from thence to the end of the next fef
iion of Congress.
This motion, after , some conversation
upon it, was carried 42 to 39.
The committee rose, and the house a
greed to the amendments. The yeas and
nays were called upon the limitation clause,
and were taken as follow :
YEAS.
Messrs. Baldwin, Bard, Benton, Blount,
Brent, Bryan, Cabell, Chapman, Claiborne,
Clay, Clopton, Davis, Dawfon, Dent,
Elmendorf, Evans, Fowler, Gallatin,
Gillefpie, Hanna, Hartley, Havens,
Holmes, Jones, Kittera, Locke, Lyon,
Macon, M'Clenachan. M'Dowell, Milledge,
Morgan, New, Nicholas, Skinner, W.
Smith (P.) Sprigg, Standford, Sumpter,.
S\*anwick, A.Trigg, J. Trigg, Van Cort
landt, Varnum, Wnable, J. Williams, R.
Williams— 47.
NAYS.
Messrs. Allen, Baer, Bayard, Brookes,
Bullock, Burgess, Champlin, Cochran,
Coit, Craik, Dana, Davenport, Dennis,
A. Foster, D. Foster, J. Freeman, Gleti,
Goodrich, Gordon, Grifwold, Harper,
Hindman, Hofmcr, Imlay, S. Lyman,
Mathews, Morris, Otis, Potter, Reed, (
Rutledge, Schureman, Sewall, Shepard, 1
Sinnickfon, Sitgreaves, J. Smith, N. Smith, 1
W. Smith, (C.) Thatcher, Thompson,
Van Allen, Wadfworth-7-43.
The bill was ordered to be engroffe3 for
a, third reading this day ; and before the
house rose, it received it, and passed. The
yeas and nays on its pafling were as follow :
YEAS.
Messrs. Allen, Bayard, Brookes, Bul
lock, Chapman, Champlin, Coit, Craik,
Dana, Davenport, Dennis, Dent, Evans,
A. Foster, D. Foster, J. Freeman, Glen,
Goodrich, Grifwold, Harper, Hindman,
Hofmer, Imlay, Kittera, Lyman, Ma
thews, Morris, Otis, Potter. Reed, Rut
>dge, Schureman, Sewall. Shepard, Sin
nick fotv, Sitgreaves, J. Smith, N. Smith,
W. Smith (C.) Svpanwick, Thatcher,
Thompson, Van .Allen, Wadfworth, J;
Williams—4s.
NAYS.
Messrs. Baldwin, Baird, Benton, Blount,
Brent, Bryan, Burgess. Cabell, Claiborne,
Clay, Cloption, Davis, Dawfon, Elmen
dorf, Fowler, Gallatin, Gillefpie, Grove,
Hanna, Havens, Holmes, Jones, Locke,
Lyon, Macon, M'Clenachan, M'Dowell,
Milledge, Morgan, New, Nicholas, Skin
ner, W. Smith (P.)' Sprigg, Standford,
Sumpter, A. Trigg, J. Trigg, Varnum,
R. Williams—4o.
A bill was received from the Senate for
continuing in force an aft to revive and con
tinue in force an aft authorising the trans
fer of stock (landing to the credit of certain
states, which was read the ift, 2dtmd 3d
time and passed.
Mr. Reed reported two bills as duly en
rolled, viz. the bill refpefting consuls and
vice consuls, and the bill allowing addition
al mileage to the members of both houses,
which were accordingly signed by the speak
er.
A message from the President of thg U
nited States, informed the house, that he
had approved and signed the aft for contin
uing process in the circuit court of the state
of North Carolina, and the aft to continue
in force certain afts and parts of ,afts of li
mited duratiott. 1
Mr. W. Smith called for the order of
the day, 011 the bill regulating the collec
tion of certain internal revenues.
Mr. Nicholas wished this bill to be post.
poned till next feflion, as it was not of any
immediate importance, and he wiftied that
they (hould by all means finifh their business
in the course of this week.
Mr. Macon moved that the committer
of the whole be discharged from further con
sideration of this fubjeft.
This motion was carried, there being 46
votes in favor of it.
Mr. Sitgreaves, from the commiitee
to whom was referred th£ last confidential
communication of the President, fald he was
direfted to make a report. The galleries
were accordingly cleared ; when not only
this report was made and difeuffed, but also
the former confidential business, which we
understand to relate to Algerine './ airs.
Adjourned till i o o'clock to-morrow.
THURSDAY, JULY 6.
Mr. Swanwick presented a memorial,
signed by twenty-nine merchants of this ci
ty, against the pafling of the stamp aft.—
Mr. S. said he knew this memorial was too
late to have any effeft, but, otiV of refpeft
to the petitioners, he'wifhed it to be receiv
ed at)d lie upon the table.
The stamp aft was yesterday passed by
the Senate.
The bill making further appropriations
for the year 1797, wis received from the
Senate, with an amendment propofmg to
add a clause to it of 45,000 dollars 011 ac
count of our treaties with the Mediterranean
powers. It was referred t6 the committee
of the whole, to whom was referred the con
fidential communication of the President
with refpeftto Algerine business.
Mr. Sitgreaves, from the committee to
whom was referred the confidential commu
nication of Monday last, reported the fol
lowing resolution, viz.
" Resolved, that William Blount, a Sena
tor of the United States, from the state of
Teneffee, be impeached for high crimes and
misdemeanors."
This resolution was twice read, and com
mitted for this day.
A motion was made by Mr. W. Smith,
for going immediately into a committee of
the whole on this business'; but it was with
drawn, in order to take up the amendments
of the Senate to the bill laying additional
licenses oif'the retailing'of foreign wines and
spirits.
The principal amendments of the Senate
were to extend the licenses to domestic wines
and spirits, as well as to those of foreign
manufacture.
The amendments of the Senate were fup
portedby Messrs. J. Williams," Sewall, Skin
ner and Varnum, on the ground of making
the duty fall more equally ; as, at present,
it was asserted, that some states paid far
more than others. Mr. Williams, in parti
cular, asserted, that the state of New-York
paid one-fifth of the whole.
The amendments were opposed by Messrs.
Gallatin, Hartley, Kittera, Venable, Day
ton, Dennis, Coit, and Craik, as oppreflive
to the frfiall farmers of this country, who
had just been taxed by an additional duty on
fait, and as tending to destroy all those small
distilleries who distilled for sale from jo to
20 gallons a year.
After considerable difcuflion, a motion
was made for the committee to rife, which
was carried by the calling vote of the chair
man (Mr. Dent). And on leave being ask
ed for the committee to fit again, it was rc
fufed 52 to 31.
The farther consideration of the fubjeft
was then postponed till the 2d Monday in
November.
Mr. Reed reported, that the bill for lay
ing a stamp duty, and that to revive and
continue in force, fer a limitted time, an aft
authorising the transfer of the stock ftand l ing
to the credit of certain states, were duly en
rolled.
Mr. Sfrigg presented a memorial from
major Lewis, extra aid-du-camp to general
Wayne, for pay for his services in that ca
pacity. After some opposition it' was re
ferred to a feleft committee to report by
bill or otherwise ; and, before the house
rose, a bill was reported, and committed for
to-morrow.
On motion of Mr. Sjtgreaves, ' the
hqufe resolved itfelf into a committee of the
whole on the resolution reported for im
peaching William Blount ; when,
Mr. Sitgreaves said, if there were no
objections to the proposition, he hoped' the
committee would rife and report it ; or, if
any information {hould be wanted on the
fubjeft, he should endeavour to give the
committee all that he had in his power to
give.
Mr. Skinner said he had doubts in his
mind whether the house had any right to
interfere in the business.
Mr. Sitgreaves obferved,that when the
communication was firft made to the Presi
dent of the United States, it appeared so
evident to him that the occasion called for
some aftive steps being taken, that he im
mediately took the opinions of the attorney
genei'nl, Mr. Rawle, and Mr. Lewis, to
whom he proposed certain questions. A co
py of the opinion which they returned to
him had been tranfihitted to the committee.
It stated that the above gentlemen had con
iidered the letter of William Blount, and
the fever&l questions proposed thereon, and
answered,
1. That the letter is evidence of a crirtie.
2. That the crime was of the denomina
tion of -a misdemeanor.
3. That William Blount being-a Senator
is liable to impeachment for the said crime
before the Senate. ,
It was in conformity to this opinion, that
the President of the United States thought
himfelf bound to aommu'nicate the letter to
the house of Representatives, and leave it
for them to aft upon the occasion. If the
opinion of these high law charafters was
correft, there could be no doiibt of the part
which they ought to take. For his own
part, he had not been able to fee why-the
members of the Senate were not as fair ob
jefts of impeachment as any other officers of
government. He believed, upon a candid
review of the conftitutiou, it would be seen
that there was no reftriftion upon the right
of impeachment. There was a reftriftion
upon the to be inflifted, but
not upon the right. He would not pretend
to fay the right might not, however, be cir
cumscribed in some refpefts. He believed
a Senator could not be impeached for any
thing he might do as a legiftator; though
this (hould be understood with limitation;
for, if corruption colild be proved upon
him, it would be a.fair'ground of impeach
merit, though, acting in the ordinary course
oFlegifbtion, hr could not be called to ac
count ffir his conduft out of the house.
He believed, that in a government like
ours, t\ie right of impeachment was a very
valuable right. It was a fort of process cal
culated to reach state offenders, not other
wise amenable to punishment ; and there was
no fear that in this country this power should
be abused, as in another coujitry, to serve
the purposes of a minister or a party, as
both the body which mates the accusations,
and the court which decides upon the charge,
are the real representatives of the people,
the one immediately, and the other medi
ately.
In England, Mr. S. said, this trial by
impeachment had been carried beyond offi
cial cases. He instanced the famous trial
of doftor Sacheyerell, who was impeached
for preaching a h'hetfous fcrmon. It was
well known that this cause divided the king
dom, and that the firil talents were called in
to the aid of the doftor.
The Senate, Mr. S.\faid, W3S peculiarly
conftrufted. Its powers were of a compli
cated nature : they were legislative, execu
tive and judicial. In -confcquence of their
executive powers, they had poffeflion of all
the secrets of the Executive. The officer
who was charged -in this cafe, he said, had
particular relation to this part of the func
tions of the Senate ; for, having this parti
pation in the secrets of government, it was a
particular breach of official duty, when a
Senator attempted to seduce an officer of the
United States from his duty. -
So also when a Senator of the United
States (hail endeavor to deprive the govern
ment of this country, or its agents, of the
confidence of a foreign nation ; when he
ft all endeavor, by fedu&ive arts, to lead a
foreign nation to make hoftiUties on this
country, it was certainly such a violation
of his duty as would warrant an impeach
ment. Mr. S. said these were the confidera
tionß which had induced the committee ta
make the report they had made ; it was for
the house to aft upon it as they saw proper.
Mr. Nicholas had his doubts with re
fpedt to the constitutional right of the house
on this fuhjeft. He thought the committee
had neglected something which ought to
have been done. They ought to have had
some fatisfa&ion with respect to the truth
of .the charge ; they were not to aft upon
mere suspicion. This was his firft impref
lion on the fubjeft ; but Jte had yet made
little enquiry on the matter'; he thought,
however, before they declared a man in any
degree guilty, they should have evidence be
fore them.
It did not appear to him that a member
of the legislature could be termed an officer
of government, for so far as a Senator had to
do with the Executive, his charafter was
merely that of an adviser, and he doubted,
therefore, whether he could, in .giving his
opinion, be liable to prosecution ; nor did
he think his crime of corrupting an officer
was the greater because he wa6 a Senator.
(To be continued,)
The report of the Committee of th? Se
nate refpefting the expulsion of Mr. Blount
was difcufled. MefFrs. Dallas and Ingerfol
attended as his Counsel. Meantime the
House of Representatives hat} pasTed a reso
lution to impeach him of'high criir.eis and
misdemeanors. The members of the House
appeared on the floor of the Senate, when
Mr. Sitgreaves at the Bar of the-Senate,\id
dreffed the PrefideMt in the name of the
Representatives, and of the People of. the
United States, impgached William JBlount,
a member of the Senate, and demanded that
his feat be fequ?ftered. A resolution was
moved by Mr. Sedgwick, agreeably to this
denjand —also that he be taken' into custody
by the meflenger, until he give surety him
felf in 2o;ooo dollars and two securities in
15,000 dollars each.
After some debate, the firft part of the
resolution relative to expulsion was post
poned till this day. The other relative to
bonds was agreed to.
Mr. Blount imme.diatelyentered into bond
for 20,000 dollars, and Pierce Butler, Esq.
and Thomas Blonnt, Esq. each of them in
bonds of 15,000 dollars as his sureties.
Mr; Jeffe'rfon has obtained leave of ab
sence from the Senate /or the remainder of
the fefiion, and Mr. Bradford is chosen Pref -
dent pro. ttrfi.
For Savannah,
ydSJ- swiftVacket,
Patrick Gribben, Master,
S& XT OW lyingat W ilcocks'wharf,
an( j positively fail on
Saturday, 15th inft. She is handfomcly accommo
dated for passengers, and fails well. For freight
or passage apply to the matter on board, or
N. & J. Frazier,
No. 95, South Front-flreet.
WHO HAVE FOR SALE,
Prime Rice in wboU and half
tierces.
July 8 §rnth
Bush Hill.
THE Public 'are refpe&fuljy informed that the
Gardens will be open
Thursday Evening, 6th, and Saturday, Btb
With a Concert of Vocal and iaftrumental Mu
(ic, after the maimer. of the public gardens, Pans,
London, etc."
Focal Performers—'Meflrs. DarL£T, ftn. Da a-,
ley, iuri. Bates, and Miss Broadhvrst.
'Jnfrumrntal. —McQrs. Hopefield. \volfe, Mucke.
Homin, Brooke, bhetky, Petit, Oznabluth, Morel,
De.l.iry, etc. Organrjl —Ms. B. Carr.
Admittance half a dollar.
The Gardens to be ypejed at fix o'clock, and the
Concert to begin at seven.
%* Tickets to he had and Boxes to be taken at
Mr. Carr's Music-store, Market-ftreec.
J u| y 5- -
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal.
r J "HE Stockholders are rsqu=ftei t<> attend a
JL met ting to be held at the Office
on Monday, July 10th, at 10 o'clock, a. m. pursu
ant to adjournment.
- AVm. Moore Smith, Sec ry.
July 8.Xlje oa&tte.
P H I LA DELPHIA,
SATURDAY EVENING, July 8.
MR. FICNNO,
! h*ve ieen in y onr paper of the j 7 th Tune part,
the advertifcment a new publication,(.ting No.'
V of the HilWy of the United States for ii y 6,
and containing these paragraphs
' tins number likewise contains some lingular
and authentic papers relative to Mr Alexander
Hamilton, late Secretary of the I rcafury. No
greater proof can be given oi the value at
•-Hea to their fipjmjlm than the following anec-
Daring the late canvass for the eleSion of a
Preudent, Webftcrin his Minerva gave a Lint that
Mr. Hamilton would be an advifcable candidate.
A person in this city who evinced to fee thi« newf
j-aper, wrote immediatejy to a cotrej'pandenf in
J<'ew-York. The letter deiired hiwt» put himfelf
Mr. Hamilton's way, and inform him that if
Webftcr (hould in future print a fmgU paragraph
on that head, the papers referred to were intlautly
to be laid before the world. • Tie mefagt -was deliv
ered to Afr. Hamilton and the Minerva became Jllent"
I have also, fyice, seen the pamphlet, No. V.
mentioned in the advertisement.
I think it proper to take an early opportunity
to declare, that the anecdote ftatcd in the above pa
ragraph is wholly falfe, and that 1 never received
any such istimation as is thereby pretended from
any person whatever. As to the papeFs contained
in (he pamphlet, from a cursory perifal, I take
them to be authentic. But the solution of them is
limply this—Thry were the contrivance of two of
the mofl profligate men in the world to obtain
their liberation fr»m imprii'onment for a serious
crime by the favor of party fiirit. For this purpose
recourle was had to Meflrs. James Monro,,Senator,
Frederick A. Muhlenbergh, Speaker, and Abraham Ve
nabtc, a Member of the House bf Representatives,
two of these gentlemen my known political opponent,'.
A full explanation took place between thera and
myfelf in the presence of Oliver tVokoU, jun. Esq.
theprefent Secretary of the l'reafury, in which by
■written documents 1 convinced them of the falfhood
( 'f the accuiation—They dedartd themselves per
fectly fatislied with the explanation, and exprelfed
their rtgret at the neceflity which had been occa
sioned to me of making it. It it my intention
shortly to place the fubjeS more precisely before
the public.
ALEXANDER HAMILTON.
Neac-York, July 6, 1 797.
The French faction have exulted in the inftauce
of one fappofed attempt on the part of the British
government to intrigue among our citizens. By
Blbunt s «wn letter it appears, however, that
Mr. Lift on did not begin the istngun; the vile and
treafonablc measure was profiojed to him.—Be that
f<i& as it may, h is obfepvabla that whenever fo
reigners wish to carry on any unjuftifiable projods
in this country, they know-who to apply ts ; they
1 know what men " have their prices 5" they are
furc of not meeting a rebuff among the bawling ex
ctuftve patriots,
Meflrs. Gallatin, Nicholas, Ik. yesterday in the
House of Reprefentativcs wilhed to have the ques
tion of impeaching their fiiend postponed until
next feflion ; they wished the public attention tote
diverted from the offender to the offence, and British
bribery.' Four months would have given them op
portunity to conjure up some method of screening
Mr. Blount, and of raising a cry against what they
call a British fa&ion ; but their arts'will fail them
Once. Americans will not forget that the traitor is
of the democratic party ; that he has uniformly voted
-with the jacobin* in Co^refs; and that he has been
hind in glove with Mr. Adet, and the Spanish Min
ister. Americans will learn to give little credit to
men who, while they set up claims to lingular vir
tue and patriotism, unceafißgly defame the govern
ment of their country.
Joly 7-
MR. FENNO,
IF we were to argue from the conduit of the
jacobins on former occalions, it would seem, that
the mere a»st of turning four merchant, was consid
ered by t>iem as perfectly innocent, if not merito
rious When Randolph, for inflanca, foldfour to
JFauchet, the dens of the patriots refoundrd with
the doleful exclamation of poor Randolph ! Alas !
poor Randolph! he has fallen a vi&im to his ill
judged confidence in the President. Pray, geod
people, did the President advise this honell unfuf
peiVing Randolph to pocket fifty thousand dollars
of the public money, and then betray him ? An
swer me that question. Again—WhenOenet, in
the year 179.3, commiflioned a number oi 'flour
merchants, some to cruize against the fubje&s of
Great Britain, and others to invade the territories
of the tyrant of Spain, as the very men who now
dine with his minister then styled him ; —we hearS
nothing about the expediency of fending Genet
back to his employes. If, then, according to the
jacobins, there is no harm in felling flour to, the
French, how happens it that the vile crew makes
such a clamor about Mr. Blount's contraA ? Being
somewhat puzzled at this nice diltindion, I appli
ed t® one of the society for an explanation—Why,
Sir, said h<, are you so ignerant as not to know,
that in the one cafe it was lawful, and in the other
treafonablc—Ti.c French are our good and faith
ful allies, but as to the English, they are our most
inveterate enemies ; and betides,there is more dan
ger to be apprehended from British than from
French influence—A few thousand dollars will go but
a little way towards building chapels, paying old
debts, becoming security for leather contractors,
&c. &c. Whereas some thousand guineas might, by
-ridding a patriot of all his embarrassments, make
an honclt man of him But how do you, replied
I, account for the fcandaToui treatment we are dai
ly receiving from our good and faithful allies ? That
to be fyre at firft fight, rejoined he, appears rather
myllerious—it is capable, however, of explanation ;
but; as We are all sworn to secrecy, you null ad
dress yourfclf for a solution, to his Grace the Duke 1
of Chant illy, now is this city, or to cenfeffor.Maz
zei, at Florence A.
Died suddenly on Tuesday last, at his
seat t in New-Castle county, Alexander
Porter, Eiq. Speaker of the Senate of
the llate of Delaware.
j
DOCUMENTS
Accompanyingthe Secretary at War's Report.
[Continued from Yesterday's Gazette.
[No. Vll.']
ExtraS of a Letter from Lieutoiant Piercy
Pope, to the Secretary for the Department
of War, dated Camp, gth May, 179 7
Rectiued zgth. Jjme,
Sir,
I arrived at the Walnut Hills on the l sth
ef las month. Previous to my arrival at that
J>lace, orders were lodged with the Command
ant of that Pofl, not to fuffer my troops to (
come any lower down until further orders. At
this place I remained for eight or ten days,
when I received a letter from Governor Gayo
■ fiff informing me, that he should be happy to
, fee myfelf and detachment arrive. I immedi
ately embarked all my troops and moved on to
Natchez, at which place I arrived the 24tli
April, was received extremely well, and every (
1 I ! '»"S award to go perfectly right for fev
j era! dgys ; the evacuation appeared to be g' jLn
on with great life, <whcn all a! ones the military
fores were immediately ordered lack, their
troops Infdy engaged all night taking bach akd
remounting the cannon ; this kind of cond:i3, 1
assure you, appeared, and Jlill appears flratige;
they arc Jirenglhening the garr son here, de
tachmenls of troops duly ttrrivmg ; the luhdle
'• of which are loth night and day working and
' f" rt fy'"S themselves : / can't fay agahtfl
r what. Reinforcements are daily going up to
r the IValnut Hills—-for no other purpose but
a flrengthening that place. The militia is order
ed to l f 9 embodied—this however is a report,
which I believe to be a very jafl one, which has
a alarmed the inhabitants extremely, who are re
t fpeSable and numerous. lam also informed,
- this evening, that what is called the Mexican
regiment are now on their way to garrifoa this
f plftce and the Walnut Hills. _ There have leen
f several attempts made to draw on the Indians
i upon my troops : I have fuiU ascertained this
i fact, and demanded of the Governor to have a
principal actor immediately brought topunijhment
or sent out of the country. He has been sent
for, and is now on boardaf one of thegallies,
j which is now about defending the river.
[ [No. F///.]
! Don Manuel Gayofo dcLemos to Lt. Pope.
Sir,
s BT Mr. Philip Minor lam informed,
f that you was preparing to come down the Miffi
-1 fippi to tale possession of the pojls on the eajl
, bank of this river, to the north of 21° latitude.
Not long ago, General Wayne sent a mejfage to
■ Baron Carondelet, General in Chief of this
, province, enquiring when it would be conve
j nient and agreeable to him to order the said
pofls to be evacuated. His excellency the Bar
, on has answered, and the anfiver cannot, yet
1 have produced the determination you have tak
■ en to anticipate lit time appointed. Depending
' on the friendly arrangements that the two Gen
erals had entered into, neither Nogals or this
. place is yet evacuated, though the neceffury fleps
are taken to verify it within one month ; there»
' fare I requejl that you will encamp your troops
| in the firfl convenient place on either bank of this
j river, nigh the place where this may be deliver
' ed to you by my Adjutant, Captain Stephen
Minor. I shall with pleasure fee your eon
' defcenfion, as this will be a proof of the good
harmony that fubfifls between our nations which
. is more particularly recommended to us by the >
King. The presence of the troops of the U- j
nited States, while the evacuation of this place j
is carrying on, would have an appearance of
1 compulfton, \vbich would not be decent to the
decorum due to his Catholic Majefly, when •so
intimately allied to the Uuited States of Ameri-
I ca.
| As soon as the military flores are embarked,
I shall do myfelf the' honor to acquaint you
' with it, and then will be very happy to fee you
here, and to be personally acquainted with you.
lam, with the confederation,■
Sir, your mo/l humble obedient servant
MANUEL GAJ'OSQ DE LEMOS.
Natchez, 2sth March, 1797.
Capt. Pope.
I No. IX.}
Don Manuel Gayofo de Lemos to Lt. Pope.
Uatchez, ijl April, 1727.
Sir,
SINCE I addreffedyou by Major Minor,
I have received orders from his excellency Ba
ron de Carondelet, General in Chief of this
province, to suspend the evacuation of the fyojls
within my jurisdiction, until our Court has Jet- 1
tied with the United States of America, fame j
difficulties which can be levelled only by our re
i fpeßive miniflers. The perfect peace and har
mony fubfjling between the two nations, do not i
allow us to doubt but we shall shortly receive j
intelligence concerning the refills of this fuf- |
pension. It is my duty to inform you of this
circumflance, and at the fame time to offer you I
any afftflance that you may be in need of, at the I
Walnut Hdh, and give you every proof of our |
disposition to keep up a good under /landing and I
lincere friend/hip with the United States. |
Notwithjlanding I have already given the 1
ncceffary orders to the Commandant of that pofl |
to prepare convenient accommodations for your
troops, I reiterate them by this opportunity, be
ing anxious that you may meet with every possi
ble conveniency at that place.
I am, with conflderatian.
Sir,
Tour mo/l humble and obedient servant,
MANUEL GATOSO DE LEMOS.
Alexander Pope, Esq. commanding "V
officer of the troeps of the United /
Statesof America, at the Walnut (
Hill*. J
[No. X.-\
Lieutenant Pope to Captain Burguard, Com
manding Officer, Walnut Hills.
Walnut Hills, Iyh April, 1797.
Sir,
I HA VE this morning,' with attention,
perused two letters from Governor ' Gayofo,
mentioning a message from general Wayne to
baron Carmdclet, general in chief of this pro
vince, to know when it would bf convenient to
him to have the pofls evacuated ; I could not
know or anticipate the answer to general Wayne's
message, but on my arrival at Fort Maffac j
was informed iy the commanding officer at that ■
plftce that the pofls were nkdy to be evacuated.
Agreeably to my orders, and in consequence of •
this information, I am now coming forward
with my detachment for the purpose of taking |
possession of the lowefl pofl on the Miflijippi, the
Natchez, pofl.
It is my w'tjh, as well as that of the Unit
ed States,, to promote harmony and q j'ritndty
exchange of good offices between the United
States and the fubjetts of his mofl Catholic ma
jefly. I am, with refpeH,
Your very:humble, servant,
I PIERCr S. POPE, Lieut. Anil.
commanding U. S. troops Miffifippi.
Captain Burguard, command-1
ing officer, Walnut Hills. J
[No. XI.-\ '
Lieutenant Piercy S. Pope to Don Mauuil
Gayofo de Lemos.
Walnut-Hills, 15 /pril 1727. '
■ J ,r > . 'I
1 OUR letter of the 257/j of March, and 1
the other ofjhe ifl inflant, were both deliver- ;
ej to mc ly the "commanding ojficer if Nogalls
? y'flert!ay+ / -was extremely sorry that,my in
y difpoJuOk id as such as prevented an answer,
r lam nrj unacquainted with the drcumjlance oj
(I genera! Wayne having sent a meffa 'ge enquiring
I when it tu/jnld hs convenient to evacuate the
> po/h. Jam unacquainted with the answer to
this enquiry, nor did I anticipate the time ap
!e pointed fur their delivery ; for the fi>ji infor
1/ niation received by me on th\t fufyt Q was at
(I Fori Mafjac, which, together with my orders
0 or injlrutlion induced me to suppose a delay for
I I receiving the pojls would be improper., J have
•- agreeably to your requefl encamped my troops on
', the ca/! fide of the Mifftfjippi, immediately above
s Nogalls, J assure youii is with/pleasure I have
- to acknowledge the polite treatment and attention
my troops have received finte their arrival at
<i this place, from the Commandant ; and refi as
s fured that aothiug shall be wanting on my part
n to cultivate thuh present inlcreJHng harmony
s which is between the two nations ; nothing will
s give me more pleasure than to be personally ac
-1 quainted with you when cowwnience willpermit,
t I am, with the highefl refpeH,
t Tour very humble servant,
( PIERCY S. POPE, Lt. /rt.
Comdg. U. S. troops, Miflifippi.
{No. X//.]
Don Manuel Gayofo de Lemos, to Lieutenant
Piercy S. Pope.
Natchez., J'jth Stpril 1797.
[ Sir,
! BY the commandant of that pqjl Jam in
formed of your arrival there, with the troops
under your command ; and be has a so sent me
the letter that you wrote to him, acknowledging
the reception of my two.
'[ The particular reasons that for the present
have suspended the evacuation of the p'fls, do
~ t not ajfeet the treaty in any other refpefi ; and
these will soon be fettled between his Catholic
Majefly and the United Stath of America, they
being"if a nature that 'only wants an explana
tion, therefure it has been thy mofl earneji wish
to keep the fe'/letttents in peace and quiet until
that political change tales place.
As I eipeißirt vou might <ome down before
an lilforruatiaa of this incident couldjrrach yop,
I provided th» molt ciiftvenieiit barracks that t
. could for your troops, at that poll, wifoing to
fliew the United State: the greatest attention to
.; to their troops; and in consequence of this dif-
I position having conferrtd with the Honorable
Andrew Ellicott, we have agreed that you Ihould
remove to this place te encamp in its vicinity,
where you may be afiifted with every thing mo! e
eonveniently. By this opportunity I forward
the «orrefpcmdent ordeis to the commandant of
■ that pofl, who will do every thing neeeflary to
facilitate and expedite your dcfctnt, which I
hope will befpeedy, as I flatter myfelf with the
proipe-A of much fatiafadlion in forming your
acquaintance. , v
1 have the honor to be,
With due conflderation,
Sir,
Yaur molt humble servant,
MANUEL GAYOSO DE LEMOS.
' P. S-Pope,-Efq.
[No. XIII.]
From the fame to the fame.
SIR,
I Have the»honour to acquaint you that
the commander general of this province de
sires me to inform you that his Majesty's e«-
voy in the United States has given him the
intilk'gence of an attack proposed- again it
our part of the Illinois by the British from
Canada; and as. such an expedition cannot
take place without passing though the terri
tory of the United States, -said envoy did
| officially communicate what wan necessary to
the Secretary of State of the United States'
requiring that convenient orders Ihould be
issued to have their territory refpefted and
provided for their own fafety: which we
( doubt not but the-United-States Will acquiesce
; to in confequedce of the treaty and the good
, harmony that, fubiifta between the United
| States of America and His Majesty.
The said commander general of this pro
| vine;; in consequence of the foregoing irifor
: mation finds himfclf under'the necessity of
putting in a (late of defence several points ;
j of this river, and particularly Nogalft, to j
coyer lower Louisiana, and in cife the ;
Britilh Ihould succeed in their projedts a- I
gainfy Illinois; for which' pnrpofe a conve- '
nient force shall be feitt to Nogalls to repair :
and defend that post, which far from being
againlt the interest of the United States of
America, will in cafe of being agreed toy'
leave the military post in that which it !
may be found.
As this is a powerful reafoh in addition to i
thofethat offered before, to suspend the (-
vacuation of thife polls, and of running the
line, as Our attention is entirely drawn to
wards the defence of the province, the said j
commander general orders me to pass you •
this official communication, and, in confe- 1
qutnee of the unavoidable delay, to repeat to |
you in his name the proposal of (remaining
here, to go down to lower Louisiana, or as
he thinks might be preferable to rgmove to
Villa Gayofo, were there are fufficiant buil- ■
dings to accommodate both you and your
troops ; this insinuation being an effeft of
the desire we .have to (hew every degree of
consideration, as a proof of our difppfition
to improve the friendlhip between our na
tions, assuring you that, in any part, that
you Ihould determine to remove or flay, the
commander general of this province will
facilitate every cortveniency in his power for
your fatisfaition;
I have the honor to be,
With the highjft confideratibd,
Sir,
Your molt humble fcrv .nt,
MANUEL GAYOSO DE LEMOS.
Natchez, ift May, 17^.'
P. S. Port.
[No. XIV.]
Lieutenant Piercy i'. Pope, to Don Manuel Sayofo
dc Lemos.
Gamp, id May', 1797.
Sir, *
YOUK letter of yesterday was delivered me
by your Adjutant Captain Stephen Minor, iihe
Governor General has, as appears from your let
ter to me requeued that I ihould be informed of
a propr.fed attack on your part of the Illinois
thr-Bi itifh force of Canada, and that
.such an expedition cannot take place without
parting through the territory of. tbe United,
States' 1 have not a doubt but that t+.e U'r.ited
States have made such armiigemtr.ts Mwilj.it*-
csre to them.the refpe# due.the Nation, and
that at the time every preparation ms b- Ln
made to carry into cffc£t with firmnei's the late
. treaty between his Catholic Majesty and the
United State*.
The second part of your letter more particu
larly concerns me, as a longer delay of the eva
cuation of the Walnut-Hills and Natchez, lean
not ..onfider in any other light than an indirect
violation'of the late treaty.
The landing of any troops for the pnrpofe of
fortifying or re-inforcing Nogalls, or any oilier
port above a due east and well line to be drawn
33, and 46, foutlvfrom Mr. Ellicort'* prefect
encampment, will be highly improper, ami no
doubt considered as a direct attack upon the Ho
nnr of the United States, is well as the liberties
ess the citizens, and an invasion of 1 part of our
tenltory ; there being no war between the Unit
ed Starts and Great Britain, the latter poVt-r
would have every reason of" complaint (hunld
a measure be fpffered. - I now proceed to
the third and last part of your letter, and carinot
suppose the reaforis offered for a longer deiention
of the pests withio the United States, and Tu
nning the line, fufficient. The fortifying or re
maining in force aga'ift your enemies within the
Territory cf the United States when holding th»
opposite fide of the Miflifiippi, where you may
with equal ease oppose your enemies, miy be pro
ductive of confequttfces to both our
nations.—
I have the honour to return you my fificere
thanks, for your frieiri!.« ip and polite attention to
myfelf ar.d treops, and at the fame time to in
form y.eu, that my present eligible situation fu
percedes the neceffrty of a removal.—
I am, with duo refppdlj" /
Your moll obedient humble servant,
/ PIERCY S. POPE, Lieut. Arrilly.
Comdg. U. S. Troops Miflififippi.
[No. XV.j ' "/" V
From Don Manuel Gayofo de Lemcs t
Lieutenant Piercy Pop:,dated Natchez., id !
May, 1797'. 1.
Sir, v'
YESTERDAY, by' Lieutenant John M'
Clairy, 1 received .your answer to my, com
munication of the day before. I am forty to
find life conftruflion you. give to such an
official information, >Vhith leaves no room of
doubt.
The Projtjdl of an attack from the Britifil
in Canada, is Prffitive. and in consequence
thereof, it is the duty of the Commander
General of Provin-'e to oppose it by
avery means in his power, iho' tie piobabi
lity is, that they will not be able to catty
their plan into execution as we rely on the
friendlhip of the United State?, who certain
ly will not voluntarily permit fnch an armed
force to paffc through their territory, to attack
the dominions of his Majesty ; but, when such
an expedition was proposed, the British knew
very wellihat to aceomplifh it they must
necessarily pass through the territory ef' the
United States, they certainly have had it in J
view either to pass the Pods by surprise, or
fonne other combination that secured to them
the means of reaching Illinois : it.is to pre
vent the efFefts of such an event that the said
Commander General takes every measure to
obftruft their success at their firft approach,
or a continuation of it, if fortune IhJuld favour
them in Upper Louiflana.
We are far from adting in a manner fa as
to alter the good understanding that happily
fubGfts between our nations. Political rea
lons have canfed a fufpenlton of the evacuati
on of these Pods ; reasons that are to be fet
tled minillerialfy, and that are out of my line
to controvert, my duty is to comply with the
superior orders of my General in Chief,
which are pofitivefy to keep the bed harmo
ny with you, and attend to every other ob
jeft concerning'the fafety of this Province. '
There is no reason to apprehend that the
treaty between she United States of Amer
ica and his majesty 6>ill not take place in ev
erypoint ; the delay experienced with re.
gardto one part of it, is not a violation of j
the treaty, and is only referred to the regu
lar ministerial procedure, which, when fet
tled, will be exa&iv complied with ; in the
mean while, no alteration can take place,
nor can any part ofhis majesty's dominions
be considered alienated, delivered in a so
lemn and regulai* manner, aad until that pe
riod the dominion of his majesty does not 1
cease.
The communication that the commander
general of the province has ordered me to ;
impart to you, is a striking proof of the good i
understanding that he.iS to cultivate, !
by informing'you of -an important circum
stance that can'eerns both our nations, with
out expedting that you would offer any ob
jections to the indispensable dispositions that
he finds neeeflary for' the fafety of the pro
vince. |
As your answer is of a nature that re- 1
quires- the immediate communication of it to
my general in chief, I request you to inform :
me further, if y6u have positive orders to
make the objeflions that you "have fignifiedj
to me, as it mult necessarily influence the j
conduct of the king my mailer towards the
United States of America ; and as likewise 1
this is 4 necessary step tojuftify that I have '
not been negligent in requiring thia impor
tant intelligence.'
I have thehonor-to be, with highest efteeffi,
your v moft humble obedierft servant, "■
MANUEL GAYOSO DE LEMOS,
Brigafciier-General, and Gov
•ernor of Natchez. . • gj j
Lieutenant Piercy Smith Pope,7)
commander of the troops of (
the United States- of Ameri- 1*
ca on the Miflifippi. J
( °Te be continued-)
By this day's Mail.
BOSTON, July*.
The Camilla, rjjrfinore,' from hence, arrived f^ r «
at Rotterdam. A few days before she made the ,1
land, fell ill with a Erepch privateer, upderwent a
very levcre examination, and received much abiife s
from the commander; the mate was offered 160 i
joos to swear the property was EoglUh, vtjkili- 1
ous efforts were alio niade to corrupt the sailors. 1
A day or two afterwards fell in with it}-F.r.glilh 1
frigate,, and was merely* aiked'where botmd, and ' 1
civilly told, that they Wert about and'as' •
their lines were long,- if they, jot bottom, they 1
would hoiSt a figßal. This is the fuVaneeuf a let
ter from cspt. DiOrnore.
La ft I'huifdoy aji rlega'nf copper botjomed sri-
oi; 36 guns at Portf.-r.ouLh, N. H.
It is supposed fre is intended for the B,ey of A ifiers, J
s </retably t« fonie agreement &t ths time ef our tie- J
d gotiaiions with him. She has a Lion held, hand
n jomely execpted. Mir keel was laid last Odober
e m rile principal.vvork has been done upon her finer'
2 PorStH 1 ¥ lof laid at
of a letter from capt. Fairchild, of the
P Le*ant,of till! port, dared, Alfcefiras, Mav
i- io . 97- '
j t " I w taken by a SpaoiHi privateer and carried
into Lcuta, where my ftip was immediately con
«f 7 he f«*ente WMTeadto me, in Spanish,
... and only a few words interpreted, fiich as M that I
n w *~ r ° m \f dc !'- hld »» EiAjifl, jack cn hoard,
it »;*»» d-ml Engt&mjn,'' «c; after which 1 was
<, ' lM ' to s et t ' utaf the. room ; and underwent a c«n
-"'l™?'"' of I® days. At. length was sent here
with my crew m order to be exchanged at Gibraltar
as Enghflintfti. I hkv®, however, Cnce got my Ji-
| r goto Malaga ; and have
•" appealed to the court of Madrid for my {hip
A ir\ * t;Ulc hcre -° £ a war w »h America.
'he. hng Minerva, Bray, of. Philadelphia ; and
3 7'S Hawfc . Hall, of New-York, were aifo cor>-
»t dentned at Ceuta. Ship P„lly, Bradfhaw, of Salem •
n bngDifpatch, Oram, of Philadelphia ; brig
I- Howland, of Boston; and Ship Three Brothers'
•- ,-bmxth, oi Portland, are condemned at Malaea..
C Durum ani Swedih vcfiels are taken as as well a*
q Afherican.
S' NEW YORK JulY 7, 17 97 .
We have a confirmation of an epidemic in
r New Providence,- by Captain Johnson, which
has carried off several.
. the present time of fiekjiefs at the above place
I his may be the cafe"in other ifianos. But*
as the drifted a'tentVn is paid by onr Hrtilth
OfScer (Dr. Bailey J to ihe duties of his
offige, onr citizens neH not apprehend any
danger of the iniroduaion or inteaious dii'ea".
'y fes, from external fotirees.
V arious reports being in circulation re
/ i fpefting the unfortunate fate of Mrs. Law
rence, pafienge'r, on board the barque Nep
tUTis, captain O'Connor, from this port to
, Jamaica, tsken by the French privateer
Resource, Sballer, mounting 2 guns ; we
, have taken pains to obtain the following,
j frhich is an extraft from the captain's letter
( to his owner in this city,.»dated at Cape
Francois, in June.
, " The lady (Mrs. Lawrence) I had
; passenger on board, killed herfelf 8 days
r after they carried me into Port Plate for
. what reason I cannot tell. The captain of
. the privateer took every thing belonging to
. her, and w€uld not let me look at any of
. her papers."
GAZ Ef 7 E MAR INE LIS T.
New-York, July 7.
Ship Patriot, Lee, Amsterdam ' 78
Brig Salacia, Noyes, St. Cr&ix 19
Bayonne, Dorgan, Martinique 17
, Schr. Alligator, Tilton, Cape Francois 17
Americanus, Sturgis, St. Thomas 13
Brig Mary, from this port to St. Thom
as has fafe arrived in 10 days.
The Spanish ship Don Juan de Babtifta,
has-been captured by his majefly's brig Char- .
lotte, and carried into Naflau,
Baltimore, July 5.
Captain Sanger, arrived a few days iince
from Port-de-Paix, informs that the last in
ftruftions of the Dire&ory, refpedb'ng neu
tral vessels, had beeh received there and Cape
Francois, and had the happy effe& of put
ting a flop in a great measure, to the de
predations on our commerce, as the com
tniflioners would consider none as good prizes
but what were bound to rebel ports.
Charleston, June 23.
/RgIVED.
Ship Caroline, Wilder, Canton, 5 months
Extra&s from the Log Book of the Ship
Caroline, Captain Wilder.
Spoke January 21ft, on the Land Head,
ihip Alexander, capt. Wallace, 5 months
and ten days out from London, /or Bengal.
Sailed from St. Helena, on the 27th A
pril, in company with the brig Sally, capt.
Pierpo-.it, of and bound to Boston, from
Canton.
Pierpont spoke the ship Christiana,
of this port, bound-to Mozambique.
At anchor off Fort' Johnfton, schooner
! Nymph, Cartlet, 8 days from Cape Nicho
: la Mole.
J Capt- Cartlett brings accounts of the
! important fort of Mirebalais being re-taken
j by the English from the French ; they were
■ under nojapprehenfion from the brigands, ei-
Ither there or at Port-au-Prince. >
The schooner Patuxent, Harrifon, and
Sally, Hands, bound from this port to
! French ports, have been carried into the
Mole by the English.
Capt. C. fell in with at the Mole, capfc
Canjeron, 6f the brig Thetis, of this port,
'* who has been a long time looked for here,
from Madeira ; capt. Cameron informed
him that the Thetis had been captured on
her passage, by a French privateer schooner
and ordered for some place he could not
learn where ; that he had been very illy
treated, they having taken him from his
vefltl on board the privateer detained
Mrs. Cameron on board the Thetis, refu
fing her the liberty of being with Herhufhand.
NEW THEATRET
For three weeks only.
■ Mr. Fox's Night.
On MONDAY Evening, July 10,
Will be preicnted a celebrated TRAGEDY, called
ROMEO y JULIET.
To )vhich wili.be (never performed a
FARCE, called
THE ANATOMIST ;
OR, THE SHAM DOCTOR.
k " " "
Health-Ojice, Philadelphia, "]ih June, 1797.
Beard of Health offer to rent out the NhW
?Lr t CITY HOSPII'At, usually called The
ivaat.
It may be occupied as a Tavern, for which there
are excellent accomodations. The person taking
it mtift btf capable and willing' to a& in the capaci
ty of a Steward : in cafe a contagcoas diftafe in
tne tity. should fit any time render it neceJl'ary to
make i:. r c of the prefnifes as a Hoipiul. It catxr.cz
therefore b* let U r any limited time—and the red
' oainted frame building: is to be rcferved. PnfofaU
"in writing will be received at this office, itating
what rent Will be allowed under the foregoing cir
cutoftances. None need apply without being; able
to produce the best recommendations,
j ' ' JOHN MILLER, Jin.
of the- Bwiri Hsalth.
Ju'y 3 ,Samuel 8c Ivliers Fisher,
No. 27, Doajt-fti-aet,
lljve jit/1 received per Abigail, Balcoclt, from
Belfast,
IRIEjH Cambricks, in boxes of 4a pieces I
and 80 patches, each sorted up to 9/
sterling per yard.
They have also received
7-8 fc 4-4 Irish Linens well afibtttd
Dowlas and Sheetings,
which will be fold for ready money, or /hqrt
fcredit, on moderate terms ; together with
a general aflbrtment of Spring Goods as
usual—-.Also,
Hunter's Pipes in boxes
An aflbi-tjnent tif Queens' Ware in crates
An afiortment of Gfafs Ware in calks and
crates
*T. Crowley, Millington, Steel
Cargo & London particular Teneriffe Wines
Lisbon Wine 6f excellent quality
Superior Sherry* Wines
Patent Sheathing paper.
A few fixiafl bales fine Cloths neatly aflbrt
t-d, and two bales aflbrted Flannels, to be
fold per package.
June 91 3taw 6w
Millinery Room,
No. 136 Mrlet-flreet.
MISS CHIirSTAL
TAKES aft early opportunity of acquainting
het Frknds that (he has received by the
WilliaM I'ijnn, a variety of NEW MIL
LINERY, &Cl which flie hopes to be able to
Slew them in a Few days.
May 18 s.?ot
To be fold,
The time of a stout hearty young NEGRO MAN,
who has upwards of four years to serve. Enquire
at No. 15, Dock-ftrcet. ,
June 13. d2w
Imported in ibe Jh 'tp Pigou,
And for tale by John Morton, No. if 6, South
Front-street,
H.yfon
Hyson Skin ( TEAS
Young liyion (
Imperial J
A P ri.l za eotf
A New Work.
PROPOSALS
For printing and publishing, by 'fublcriptioti, The
History of Pcnnfylvania,
IN North- America, from the original institution and
lett lenient of that province, trader the fir ft propri
eior and governor, William Pxnn, in 'till
alter the'ycar 174? ; with
AN INTRODUCTION.
Refpeftißg the Lifefof W. PENN,
Prior to wegfant of that Province, and the reli
gions Society of the people called Quakers; with the
FIRST RISE of the NE4GFJ&ORINGCOLONIES,
more particulaily ot W EST-NEW- JER.SE"Y» and the
Settlement of the DUTCH and SWEDES oti DEL A
WAR I.
To which is added,
A BRIIiFDESCRIPTION OF THE SAID PRO
VINCE
And of tb«general.(late, ia which it floonOied,
principally beiweeo the ye*kf» 1760 and 1770. The
whole including a variety of tbirup, ufeful and in
teresting to be refpe&ing that country in early
time, See. With an apj endix.
Written principally between the years 1776 and 1780,
By RcBFkT Proud.
11 Pulchrumtfl benefacere reipublica, etiam benedicere
hand abjutdum efi, pel pace vcl bello darum fiai licet'*
*al. Catajin.
" Sedcum plerique arbitrentur res bellieds majores eje
quam ur bonus, minuendaeft hoc opinio"
Cic. Off.
(Entered according lo law.)
il WILLI AM PENN, the great legislator of the
Quakers, (in Pennfylv»nia)had the success of a con
queror, in eflablifhirg and defending his colony, a
mongfavagc tribes, without ever drawing thefword ;
the goodness of the mod benevolent rulers, in trea
ting hisiubjc&s as his ownchildren ; and the tender
nels of an universal £ather, who opened his arms to
all mankind without diftin&ion of fed party. In
his Republic it was not his reiigious creed, but per
sonal merit, that entitled every member of society to
the prote&ion and emolument of the State "
Essay on Toleration, by Arthur o^Leary.
CONDITIONS. #
I. This work will be printed in two o£tavo vol
umes, neatly bound and lettered, both in sheep and
calf, for the choice oi the iubferibers; on paper hmi
iartethatof the conditions, as fublijkcdin theSubJaip
tion papers.
11. The head of William Penn, handsomely en
graved, will be prefixed to the firlt, and a map or
{ketch of Pennsylvania, and the parts adjacent, to the
iecond volume.
Ill* The price to fubfcriberi will be four dollars
and an half in sheep, and five dollars in calf; —one
dollar to be paid at the time of fubferibing, two dol
lais on the delivery of the f)rft volume, and the re
mainder on the delivery of the second.
IV. When one'thoufand copies are fubferibed
tor, the work will be Dut to press and finiihed. with
al| convenient expedition.
Subfcriptiqns will be received by Zachaiiah Poul
fon, jun Printer, No. 80, Chefuut-ftreet, and at the j
Philadelphia Library in Fifth-ftreet ; by Isaac Col
lins Printer, and Joseph James, Merchant, New-
York; by John P. Pleafantsand George W. Field,
Merchants. Baltimore; and by other pcrfons both
in town and country.
Februar\ 18. tu&f
An elegant House in Arch-street.
TO be let and entered on immediately, a large and
elegant House at the corner of Arch and Ninth-ftrect
There arc two drawing rooms and one dining room
—the largcft is 31 feet by 26—and two are so con.
ncftcd by folding doors as to make but one. Also,
five bed rooms, beside five in the garret, well Tiaiifh
ed for fcrvanis. There are stables and a coac house,
with every convenience for a family. Enquire at No.
29, in North Seventh'ftreet, or at No. a 18, Arch
ftreet.
Also to be rented for the summer season, a small
neat house and garden about 3 1-2 miles from the
citv, with stables and coach house* Enquire as above.
June 6. aaw3w
Wanted on Rent,
WITHIN feveA miles of Philadelphia, a
convenient House with a Garden, faita
ble for the accommodation of a genteel lnoall fa
mily, for which a suitable rent will be given.
Any person having such an one to let, will be
pleased to leave information of the Ctuation and
terms at No. 43, North Third street.
June Co3t
STICKNEY's PATENT ARCH BRIDGE
A 'NY person desirous of information refpeifi
ing this new conltruiSion, may obtain it
witiiout dela/by application pr. letter, or oth
erwise, to John Sticfeney, merchant of Wortef
ter, (Maifachufetts;) who will known
the many advantages arising from this manner
of buildinc, and upon application he will either
vend a patent right, or atterii perfor.ally to fu
perintendthe building of any bridge required.
Jane 10, 17,97- ,*cojw.
To be fold at tublic Vendue,
T6the highest bidder, at the house of Mr.
William Evans, the sign of the Indian
Qvtjen, in the city of Baltimore, on the 25th
day of Oflober next, at 11 o'clock, A. M
About seven thoufam) acres of land,
the property of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
lying between Reifler's-town and Wellmirtfter,
commonly called Little Winrhefter, [the turn
pike road runs through a ceniidorabie pat t of
ihefe lands) the trafl begins about 17 miles
from Baltimore, within a few hundred yards
of faid-Reifter's-town, and extends to the dif
tan.ce of about twenty-three miles from Balti
more, snd li« on the main falls of Pataplico
river, from three to four miles thereon. Will
be fold in trails of one hundred and fifty to
three hundred acre. There is a large propor
tion of meadow and w nod land on each trail,
feme of them highly improved, with excellent
buildings and fine grrfs.
ALSO,
A traft of seven hundred acres of
land, called Clover Farms, within five miles of
Bladenlhurg, esteemed very good for Grass.
Richard Ponfonby,of Bladenfburgh, will fiiew
this land to any person-inclined to purchai'c.
ALSO,
A traft of land ®f about three-hun
dred and thirty acres, within about two miles
and a half of the President's house in the Fede
ral City. It is nearly a!', wftod land, and a fine
high profpefl, front whifh may be fceß the
city of Walhington, Bladenfbtirgli, Alexandria
and a part of George-town, and many miles
down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard Ponfon
by, of Bladenfburg, will also (hew this land.
A lijberal credit will be given for t)ie greatest
part of the purchase money. The terms will
be made known on the day of sale.
May 8 w^m
t or Sale,
THE time of a Mulatto Man, who has about 9
years to serve, understands the tare of Hors
es, and is a good waiter.
Inquire of the Printer.
June 26. jiw
Advertisement.
PURSUANT ta an Order from the Court,
will absolutely be fold at PUBLIC SALE, at
Cranberry, on Wednesday ,tbe tsd day of August next, at
II 0 clock, A M, all that valuable REAL ESTATE,
lute belonging to the Rev. Gilbert T. Snowden, deceased,
lying in and near Cranberry, iu the county of Middle fix,
tvwnjhip of South Brunfwick, Hate of Neiv ferfey, up
on the lower stage road leading from Philadelphia to New
York. A very elegant frameboufe in a beautiful and
healthy J't tu at ion, white, with Venetian window
flutters, thirty feet front and thirty eight feet dc-p, Hvo
rooms with a handfotne hall or entry on the frfl floor,
three rooms on the second floor and two well-fnifhed gat
rets. In the rear of the house is an excellent two-flory
building 37 feet by 19, confifling of a dining-room for
work people, spacious pantries and a large kitchen, with
every convenience, and over tbefe are three chambers for
servants. To the right is pn additional building 1-8 set
front by 19 feet deep, const fling of a chamber below and a
library ' above—under the whole are very fine cellars paved
with brick and convenientfy partition ed. The house is en
tirely new, built in a modern flyle, and completely and e
leganfly f.nifhed. Every room is hung with bells that
lead bath to the kitchen and the servants * apartments : there
is a pump of good water in the yard; and a flone and
brick pavement round the whole house, which is enclos
ed with a bandfome railing, with three gates in front.
Tie farm confifls of one hundred and ftxty seven acres
with a proportion of woodland and meadow, under excel
lent fence ; a garden with pale fence ; a large barn, fla
bles, tarriage-loufe, cow-houses ,* life. all new, and built
in the befl manner : with two Orchards, one df 60 full
grown trees, the other is young and thriving, confifling of
200 befl grafted fruit trees.
Nearly adjoining said farm is a lot of Woodland,
of the befl quality, containing 37 acres. Also a trail of
land within seven miles of Cranberry, and I of the Croft
Koad», containing one hundred and ffty acres, three-fourths
meadow and the red excellent timber.
This Trafl will he fold in lots on Thursday, the 24th
day of Augufl following, at II o'clock, A AI, on the
premises if the weather permits, if not at tie house of
Mr. Wither ill, Croft Roads.
For further particulars enquire -of Nathaniel Hunt, esq.
Cranberry, of Mr. Isaac Sn<Avden,jun. No. 141 South
Second Street» Philadelphia, or\f Gharles Snowden
Tontine Coffee-Rouft, New York, or op thefubfribers.
ISAAC SNOWDEN,Princeton! .. e ,
[JACOB FISHES, Cranberry J '
N: B. Pbcfale of the above property was aavertized
for the 14th infl. but the Adminiflrators were not able to
get the two separate Trails laid out into Lots, and other
matters arranged, on account of tin indisposition of one of
them, it was therefore adjourned to the days above mention
ed. §6tmwftf June 19*
A Literary Treat.
JuJl; publifhtd, handsomely printed on writing
paper, price I dollar,
A new edition of that popular and entertaining
work, tntitled
THE FORESTERS, an .American Tale ; being
a sequel to the hiliory of John Bull, the Clo
thier—ln aferiesof letters to a friend, with the ad
dition of tvi o letters, alluding to recent political
tranfa&ioni in America.
Th« following extract from the Clavis Alleg»rica,
(hews the principal characters that are introduced:
John Bull, the Kingdom of England
His Mother, the Church of England
His Wife, the Parliament
His Sifter Peg, the Church of Scotland
His Brother Patiick, Ireland
Lewis, the Kingdom of France
His Mistress, the Old Constitution
His new Wife, the National Rcprefentation
Lord Strut, the Kingdom.of Spain
Nicholas Frog, the Dutch Republic ,
The Franks, the French Republic
The Foresters, the United States of America
Robert Lumber, Ncw-Hampihire
John Codline, Maffachufctts
Humphrey Plowshare, ColineAieut ?
Roger Carrier, Rhode Ilknd
Peter Bull Frog, New-York
Julius Csefar, New-Jerfcy
William Brpadbrim, Penofylvania
CalHmar, Delaware
Walter Pipewood, Virgihia
His Grandson, George Waihington
Peter Pitch, North Carolina
Charles Indigo, South Carolina
George Trulty, Georgia
Ethao Greenwood, Vermont
Hunter Longknife, Kentucky.
Black Cattle, Negro Slaves
Rats, Speculators
Mother Carey's Chickens, Jacobins
•ss° This popular and entertaining satirical bifto
ry of America is attributed to the Rev. Dr. Bel
knap. It hasa great share of originalityand a
botinds with genuine humour.. It is contifued
down to the prefer.t time, and charadlerifes those
late political tranfa&ions which ihave caused so
much ureafinefs in America.
Sold by H. and P. RICE, Bookseller, No. 16,
South Second Street, and No. jo, Marke' ftjeet.
Jupe 26. ■ §
Jufl Publifoed,
And to be had of Mcffrs. Dot son, Campbell, Rice,
Cary, and the other prieipal BoqkfeJlers in the
city,price one dollar, twinty-fiye cents,in boards,
• New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
Ey BENJAMIN SMIIH BAR»ON, m. d.
June 40. *6t
45i0c0 pieces of Nankeens
2jp boxes brown Havarnali Sugars
' Imptvrial Hyson Tcad
17 tabs Quick Silver
Sail Canvas, No. I a 8
A large of Nails, fliarp an J flat points
Queens Ware, well afiorted in crates hhtls.
London Particular and \ Madtira wines
India Market 3
Tenerjffc Wine in hhds. and pipss
Bottled London Porter in tierces
Fine Yallow Paint, dry in cafk9
Writing Slates i» boxes and bundles
A box of Ink Stands and Note Presses
Manchester Goods in cherts
3 trunks black Sewing Silk
6 tons of Sheet Lead
Best Liverpool Coal, and
A quantity of Wine Bottles
For Sale by
Philip Nicklin, & Co.
Juue n. ztawtf
New Hilt and Hosiery Store.
Jrtfl Imported,
In the Jlipt IVill mm Penn and Star, from London, and
nrw opening by
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL,
AT his new Hat and Hosiery Store, No. 134,
Market I'tfect —
An elegant assortment ot silk, cotton and thread
Stockings
Silk, cotton and thread Gloves
Pantaloons, &c. &c.
Likewifc, a handsome assortment of men's, wo
men's, and children's fafliionable Hats, fuitablcfor
the Season.
A cenfiderable quantity of low and middle priced
Hats assorted in cases, intended for country stores.
May 23. taw
To Let,
THE BUILDING now occupied by the Bank
or tub United States. For terms en
quire of Edward Garrigues, No. 39, Cherry-ftroet.
N. B. Also a large, convenient Cellar in 1 good
situation . Apply as above.
June 15 * eot f
C OTTO N.
A few bales iuft *rrived, frfr sale by
JOHN CLARK,
v Nb. ,$£ Nortfr Water Street.
June 10. •otf-
YoUng Hyson Tea.
40 cbefts of * superior quality—Also,
100 do. of Hyson,
Imported in the Waodrop Sims, and for sale by
the J'ubfcribers, corner of Second and Pine
street.
C. Haight.
June 11. «®tf
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 319, High-Street.
GEORGE DAVIS,
BEING busied for some time past in prepara
tions for removing into hi&prefent house, has
been under theneceflity of peftpeninguntil this day
informing the gentlemen of the Bar generally thro'
the United States, that his fpringimportation of
law books is now arranged and reWy lor lale, on
terms that he trusts will entitle him to the like pre
ference he has experienced for leveral years past.
Catalogues, combining the mod varied collec
tion ever imported i<ito this country, are printed
and will be delivered on application.
June 17. »aw 6w
LAW BOOKS,
Latest London and Dublin Editions.
H. & P. RICE, Booksellers,
No. 16, South Second, and No. 50, Market street,
HAVE jull received by the late arrivals from
London and Dublin, their spring importa
tion, confiding ef a variety of the latest ai.d most
approved Law Books, which, added to those alrea
dy on hand, forms the moftextenfive cqjladion ev
er offered for sale in this country. They theiefore
beg leave to notice, that from the nature of their
conpe&icosin Dublin, they are enabled te fell Irish
edltiqns (as they have hitherto done) at the very
lowest prices. The following are among the latest
publications.
Vefey, jan'rs Reports in Chancery, a vcls.
Peake's Cases at Nisi Prius; Ridgcway's Reports
in the time of Lord Hardwicke 5 I'loyer's Procters
Pradice in the Ecclcftaftical Courts; Barton's
Treatise on a Suit in Equity; Tidd's Praifticc of
the Court of King's Bench in Personal Adlions, a
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
an Uses ; modern Reports, I 1 vols. London edi
tion.
H. and P. Rice cxpe& t» receive by file firft ar
rival from New-Y«rk the 6th vol. complete of
Durnford and East's Reports, the id part of Gil
btrt'i Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
new publications. ,
June 2.6.
Jay's Inftru£tions.
On MONDAY lafl, -was publi/hed,
By SNOWDEN fcf M'CORKLE,
No. 47, A"ortb Fourth Street)
And to be had of the principal BOOKSELLERS,
No. V,
Of the Hifiory of the United States
fir 1796, &c.
This and the preceding number present the pub
lic with a copy of Jay's Instructions, a per
formance anxiously concealed by the Executive
from the House of and the con
tents of which have excited the most srdent curie
fit*.
This number Jikewife contains some Jingular and
authentic papers relative to Mr- Alexander Hamil
trn, latt Secretary of the Tresfury. No greater
proof can be given ot the "value which he has at
tached to their fupfrrjfm, than the following anec
dote.
" During the late cer.vafc for the election of a
" President, Webster, in his Minerva, gavn a hint,
" that Mr. Hamilton would be an advifeable can
" didate. A person in this city, who chanced to
" fee this newspaper, Wrote immediately tp a cor
" refpandent in New-York. The letter desired him
" to put himfclf in Mr- way, and in-
S form him, that if Webster should, in future,print
" a fiugle paragraph on that h'fad, the papers refer
" od to'wersf tfitlatul'y, to belaid before the world.
" The mtjfagc tvas < delivered tv Mr. Hamilton, and the
" Minerva becameftUnt /"
June 24. tawiw
This Day is Published,
And fold by H. & I. Kjmmerf.r, jun. No.
24, North Third-Jireet, also, by Mr. Hstf-
Rr SirEirzEß, No. 85, Race-Jlreet,
(Price halt a Dollai neatly bound)
The Man of real Senfilpility ;
Or, The HISTORY OF SIR G. ELLISON.
Foul at d Oil F.III.
(£3** The elegant Edition of the Elements of Moral
ity, in two vol*. ilJuflratid with twenty copper
plates, may also be had as above, price, fall bound
and gilt two dollars and -fifty cents,
> H&I. K junrs. have on hstnd a quantity of No. i
aad 2 Writing Paper.
City of Wafliingtori.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. llj
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificent dwelling-house ao,ooo dollars,
& ca(h 30,q00, ire 50,00s
1 ditto 15,0'0b & cafli 15,00® 40,000
i ditto 15,000 & caih 15,000 30,000
I ditto 10,000 & cash 10,000 ao,oeo
1 di'tto 5,000 & ciih 5,000 it>,ooo
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,n00 10,000
1 cash prize of 10,000
a do. 5,000 each, are ■ ib,ooo
10 do. 1,000 - - 10, 00c
10 do. yoo - - io,soo
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
too do. 50 * * 10,000
400 do. 35 - - iff,ooo
I,coo do. 40 - 10,000
J5,000 do. 10 - librae
i6>739 Prizes.
33,261 Blanks.
jo,ooo Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. To favour those who may take a quan
tity of Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but on* :
And approved notes, securing payment in either
monsy or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received foi any number not less than 30 tick
*ets.
This L«ttery will afford an elegant specimen of
the private buildings to be ereiled in the City of
Waihington—Two beautiful designs are already
leleifted for the entire fronts on two of the public
f'quares; from these drawings it ispropofed to eredt
two centre and r our c orner buildings, as soon as pos
sible after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
when complete, to the.fortunate adventurers, ir
the manner dtferibed in the fchcme for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett dedudtion of five per cent, will
be made to defray the necefTary expenses of print
ing, 3cc. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National University, to
be ereded within the city of Washington.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the
Brizes, are held by the President and tjwo Direct
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount of the iGttery.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
.§. Tickets may be had at the Bank of Colum
bia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter
Gilman, Boflon ; of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
and of Richard Walls, Cooper's Ferry.
mwf
C. E. Whitlock,
DENTIST;
RESPECTFULLY informs the Ladies and Gen
tlemen of Philadelphia and its vicinity, that he
continues to perform all operations on the Teeth ; sup
plies the deficiencies of nature with artificial or real
teeth, in all the various modes of fixing —Cleans,
files, regulates, extraSs, and fills decayed teeth with
gold or leid, &c. &c. He waits upon Ladies and
Gentlemen at iheir houses, and will be happy to re
ceive their commands by note, at Mrs. Finch's, No.
68 north Eighth street, or at his house. next to the
Black Horse Tavern, on the Frankford rojd.
Dollars.
Scaling and cleaning 5
Artificial teeth, with enamel, per tooth, 5
Do. in gold fockcts or Ccrews 7
Natural ieeth with ligatures 7
Do. on gold or ivory lockets, or gold Tcrewt 10
Filingand cutfing away decay—each decay 1
Filling with gold 2
Do. with lead 1
Eotrafling (10 the families who employ bim
at denuft) 1
Do. where not emplpyed z
Tooth poyder of his own preparing 1
Brushes, best London manufacture 25 cents.
Regulating, &c. according to the operation.
%* C- Whitlock will fell the time of a Negro
Man ; —he is honed and fobcr, and has about 5 years
aoda half 10fcrve. Enqui/e as above-
June 15 .
* 1
Lancaster, Harrijburg Carlijle,
Shippenfburg and Sun bury
STAGES.
THE public are requeftcd to tafce notice, that
the partnership which has for some time sub
sisted betwesn Mathias Slough of Lancaster, and
William Geer, is now dissolved : bat, not as M.
Slough infinwatcsto (hepublic without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fub
}e& fiom M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 29th
December last. a recital of which is not now deem
ed necefTary. Any gentleman who wifhe3 to be
more circumstantially informed of the merits of
this bufincls, by applying to W. Geer may have
the perusal ef M. Slough's letter, and then can b<;
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfeftly juftifiable in attaching him
felf to any other person in the prosecution qf the
Stage conveyance frona Philadelphia to Shippenf
arg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
public were pleased to confer on the firft effort in
this business, William Geer, in conjunftion with
Meflrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer,.is determined
to prosecute and" carry it on, with every care, at
tention anddifpatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can possibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horfcs, and every appurtenance to
render the paljage fafe and commodious, inftjfm
thof# wno wilt to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can talie their feats at
George Weed's, the flgti as the White Horse,
Market 'Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and -Friday, to proceed to , Lancaster, Harrifburg,
Carlisle and Shippenfburg. The fare as hitherto
eft blilbed.
For the further accomm«dation of the public,
a Stage will start every Wednesday from the house
of Samuel F.lder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thuriday,
and return from theoce and arrive at Harrifburg
every Saturday, so that passengers deflined for
Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed on M?n-
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster, Jan."a7,_ x 797.
N. B. This Line of Stages darts from fthe
hottfe of William Ferrac, in Lancaster, on every
Tuesday and Saturday morning at .6 o'clock, pro
ceeding to the westward; and from the house of
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg every Wednes
day ntorning, on the fjme evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns
from thence on every Thursday ; performing the
fame roptinc daily as in its tour from Philadel
phia. "iwf
A Cow Stolen
FROM the owner at the corner,of Ninth
and Arch streets. She is a deep red
brindle with some white, about ten years
old and very gentle. The person who fe
crctes her had best turn her out, as, if legal
evidence can be obtained, he may expeft a
rigorous prosecution. TWO DOLLARS
reward will be given to any person who will
deliver the Cow, or give such evidence a
gainst the person keeping her, that he may
be convi&ed of the fa£f. Apply at
No. 218, Arch Street*
June 9- taw3W
William Blackburn,
LOTTERr and BROKER'S OFFICE
No. 64 south Second-flreet.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 11, which
commenced drawing the 29th May, FOR
SALE. The price of tickets will rife in propor
tion as the drawing advances, particularly on ac
count of the five iirft drawn tickets, prizes of
four thoufind dollars each, on the lad day of
drawing.
Check Books kept for examination and register
ing, in the Canal, No. 2, City of Walhington, No.
i, and Paterfon Lotteries.
Alio, ticke j for sale in the Schuylkill bridge and
Perkiomen Bridge lotteries, which will begriu
drawing in the count of the summer.
The bufiaefs of a Broker in all kinds of Stock,
Bills, Notes, Lands, &c- &c. tranfadled wich the
utmost a:tentien.
Tune 2 . tu&f
THE FOLLOWING VALUABLE
Tra&s of Land,
IN the county of Glynn and state of Georgia,
will be fold by public sale, at eight o'clock
On the evening of Tuesday the 27th day of June
next, at (he Merchants Coffee-Houfe in this ci
ty, unless previously disposed of by private faie.
ift. 7000 acres on St. Simons Sound a{ tii?
confluence of Frederica and Turtle rivers, ad
joining the commons of the town of Brunfwick,'
originally granted to John Howell, and withia
6 miles of the Atlantic ocean.
ad. 115,000 acres on the head wateri of a
branch of the great Sattilla, originally granted
to Ferdinand O'Neal.
3d. 50,000 acres on the waters of the little
Satilla river, and of Buffaloe and Alexanders
Creeks ; the great Satilla road passes through
these lands, which were originally granted to
Ferdinand O'Neal.
4th. 50,000 acres on the great Satilla si ver,
whith are alio interfered by a branch of the
little Satilla, and were originally grated ten
Thomas Spalding.
It appears by authentic certificates from
Thomas Davis, surveyor, and from Major
Hopkins now refidmg in Philadelphia, that the
body of these lands are not thirty miles from
the ocean, and principally within tide ;
■ that the Alatamaha is navigable for boats and
rafts two hundred miles above, and for large
veflels within ten miles of them ; that they are
chiefly iirft rate pine lands, producing timber
equal in quality to any in the state of Georgia,
poffefiing the fame advantage? of navigation. /
The aboveroentioned certificates, together with
the patents, drafts, andother papers refpe&ing
the title, which is complete and unincumbered,
are in the poffeflion of the fubferibers and may
be seen by applying to Benjamin R. Morgan, at
No. 41 Mulberry Street. The terms of pay
ment will be one third calh, the remaining two
thirds in good negotiable endors'd not?s r paya
ble in three and fix months after the sale ; a
conveyance to be made to each purchafcr on the
payment of that moiety of the notes received
from him which becomes flrft due.
THOMAS FITZSIMONS,
JEREMIAH PARKER,
BENJAMIN R. MOHGAN.
Philadelphia, May 31, eodtf.
Georgetown Bridge Company.
Extract of an a6l passed by the Legislature of
the state of Maryland on the 49th December, '
1791, entitled, " Anaa/or erefting a bridge
over Potowmac river.
1 And be it enaSed, that the said direifiors or
any two as tliem shall and may require any sum
or sums of money in equal proportion ftNim each
and every proprietor, as m?y from time to time
be necessary for carrying 011 the building of said
bridge j and after giving three months public
notice, it shall and may be lawful for the direc
tors to sue for and rucqver in the nams of the
company such unpaid requisition, with all costs
and charges incidental thereto, and legal intercft
thereon from the time the fame should have
been paid: And the or refufal to pay any
such requisition after public notice shall have
been given at least for three months in all the
newspapers heiein before enumerated, shall Lave
the effeii to forfeit all preceding payments made
on the lhare or shares i'q negledied or refufed to
be paid M the use and benefit of the company."
mation of such of the fiockholders as have not
complied with the requisitions heretofore made
—they are as follow: On the iff November,
1795, zc dollars, on the 10th May, 1796, 40
dollars; an the 20th July, 1796, 40 dollars ; on
the ift September, 1796, 40 dollars, and 00 the
Ift November, 1796, 60 dollars. Caution is
now given that after tkeexpiration of the time
limited for the continuance of this advertise
ment (three months) the Ijw will be carried
into rigid and complete efTe<ft against all delin
quents.
By order of the Directors,
WALTER SMITH, Treafurcr.
Georgetown, May i, 1797. iaw 3 m
TO BE SOTTD;
A valuable three story Brick House ;
OITUATE in Lodge alley, next to the bank of
1J Pennfyjvania, the lot on which h Rands, to -
gether with the vacant lot adjoining, wfiich ex
tends to Goforth-llreet. The house is about 50
feet in front ©n Lodge alley, and about 42 feel
in depth, the adjoining lot is about 96 feet
front on Lodge alley, and 42 feet dn Goforth
llreet, being a street which leads from Chefnut
ftreet and Carter's«llrv into Dock-lireet at the
horse market. The house consists of ten lodg
ing rooms, with fix fire, places, two dining
room?, one of them forty feet in length, the
other about thirty-four feet, each containing
two fire plac*s, two parlours and a large kit-,
chen, with extenlive cellars under, and garrets
over the whole, a privilege of a vacant Jot
as ground to the eastward between this heul'e
and 'he bank, a pump 4? excellent water in the
yard, a handsome piazza fronting the vacant
lot, and a frame liable and dwelling house on
Geforth-ftreet. "I'll e premises now rent for
£.318 per annum. To be fold clear of all in
cumbrances. .
For terips apply, to Jqin Clement Stacker.
A P»i 10
JOriN CRAIG
HAS just imported from Rotterdam, via St.
Thomas, and for sale op reasonable terms
by the package
Platillas Royal
Haertem and German linens
Rouens-
Foft and Pro Patri* Paper
Wafers
Quills
Oziers for Hoops, in Bundles
Coffee Bags
He has also for Sale,
Belt Red Clover Seed
Old Madeira Wine, fit for immediate use
TenerifTe Wide of firlt and second Quality
Coffee in Bagsand Hoglbeads
Jamaica Spirits
Conneilicut Turpentine Soap
Window Glass
Two Trucks of belt Patent, Silk and Cotte»
Hosiery
April 18. 4aw