cf ti)e H-Hittis, ™
NUMSKR 1601.]
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales •
For DR r GOODS,
r Forenoon—Edward Fox, No. $(,,
Monday! . / mJth Front-street,
) Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 6 5
C. South
f' Forenoon—John ConneUy, Old City
Aufllon ' Nn 73 fout'h Front-street.
) Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
V. High-street.,
JVednefday J Afternoon—Peter Benfon, No. 74
< south Third-ftrcet.
Thw/day £ Forenoon Edward Fdx.
i Afternoon—John Connelly.
Friday ? Forenoon—William Shannon.
5 Afternoon—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Ben lon.
For S A VANNAH"
THK FAST SAILING SAIf
Swift Packet,
Patrick Gribbin, Mafler.
f NOW lying at Smith's wharf,
above Race-street. Is baudfome- i
7 "commd'lated for paflengers, and will fail on '
■SiiaxrJay, aSth inft. For freight or pailage., appiy j
*0 the Mafler on board, No. 95,.South Front-I
ilreet, or of the fubferibers, at Frankfort).
N. & y. Frazier.
°- a - ___ _dußth '
For LONDON,
™ E SWEDISH SNOW
Adolphz,
Capt. Cms. Wu. rL* ;
ExpecfJetf to fail in all the pr#fent month—A
few tons of Goods are wanted on Freight, and
will be taken on moderate terms, if speedy appli
cation is made. Apply te
Peter Blight.
Back of his new buildings, Dock-llreet.
oa 19- «_
For Freight or Charter,
The Dan 'ifh Brig <
-Abel Catherina,
Burthen about 160 tons.
1 HIS vcflel is now ready to receive on board a
targo, and nay be dispatched to any port in Eu- j
rope or the Mediterranean in eight days.
Apply to the Captain on board, or to the fobferi
*>«■• JAMES YARD.
O ft - *9- •_ _ diet
For Freight or Charter, i
s U K E Y,
Isaac Vredenburg, Master ;
lying at Clifford's whart, and in complsat
order to rcccjwc a cargo. For terms plejfe to ap
ply the Captain ei\.board, or
John Slyrin,
No. Si, Arch-street.
WHO HAS FOR SALE,
2000. wt. of double refined Saltpetre
600 wt. of F F Gun Powder
300 barrels cf Herrings t
jo bushel. of Timothy Seed (]
' Ijo case-os Claret, firft quality
And a qaantity of Sherry Wine.
Sept. ap. dtf _
t Antigua Rum,
JUST arjived at Wilmington, Delaware r
State, and now landing from on board the
Brig A.Oive, Wiiham Wilb'ams, Master, d
One hundred hhds. 3d & 4th proof,
And for Sale by
Jehu Hollingfworth W Co.
Wilmington, Sept. »i. dif
Wjjapßg'**' N. B. The above Brig,
and the brig GAYOSO, are .
A i/ »lfo for Sale or Charter, and
—Jfertfrrvv_ now ready to receive a cargo
on board, at Wilmington. Apply as above.
An elegant House in Arch Street.
TO be let and entered on immediately a large
and elegant house at the Corner of Arch and
Ninth Street. There are two drawing rooms
and one dining room—the largest is 31 feet hy
and two are so eonna<£led by folding doors /
as to make but one. Also, five bed rooms, be- :f
fides 5 in the garret, well finithed for servants.
There are flables and a coach house, with evry l c
convenience for a family. Enquire.it No. 29, ™
in North Seventh street, or at No. 118, Arch
Streeti
Aug. Tj. __aawjw.
Chocolate and Mustard -
Manufactured as usual,
Ginger and F.epper ground
' Shelled or Pearl Barley 'J 1
Bhiladelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder
London Porter
Taunton and Burton Ale DC
Red Port and other Wines, eithe bottled,
»r hy the pipe, quarter-cask or gallon—suitable
for exportation or home consumption
For Sale by
John Hawortb.
No. 98 south Front ftreet, l A
THE SUBSCRIBERS, 7
ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GREEftLEAF)
HEREBY give notice, that they have disposed a
of the property assigned to them for the securing
jhe payment of the note", acceptances, ind en
idorfements given by Edward Fox, for the use
ofthefeid James Greenleaf; and the.hold.ers of an
such notes, acceptances, and endorfcments, are
ihereby notifyed that the fubferibers will fettle
-with them for the amount of their refpeilive ''l
«l»ims, both principal and interest, at
any time before the »cth day of Odober next;
after which dav, the holders not applying, will
be excluded, agreeably to the terms of aflign
rnent.
Application l * to be made at south-east corner ' n
of Dock and Second streets (the Dock-street oi;
fidt), between the hours of eleven and one o'
alockevety day, Sunday? excepted.
Henry Pratt,
Tho. IV. Francis, In
John Miller, Juu. t
John AJhley, '
Jacob Baker. ..
Philadelphia, August 18, 1797. d
TENERIFFE WINE.
LANDING at Walnut-street wharf, TENE- C
pIFFE WINE; of excellent quality, :n pipes and But
h? !f pipes, for sale by JAMES YARD. ell,
oa. I». tegt s
PHILADELPHIA: THURSDAY EVENING, GCTOBER 26, 1797
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not before disposed of at private fate)
ON Friday, the tirll of December next, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Mefchinls' Cos
, fee House, in Philadelphia, Forty Thousand Nine
' Hundred and Thirty Nine acrrs of LUND,
now or latrf in the County of Wjfh ngton, and Cem
-05 monwealth of Pennsylvania, snd cn the waters of
Frelh and Wheeli»g Creeks and Ten Mile Run.—
Thelc arc fcrti'e and well timbered, and were
?et. p»te«tced early in tjSy, except 3700 acres or therea
boats, which were patented ih 179 a. One Wurth
of the purchase money t© he paid at the time of faie, 1
74 r , 1 ! e a credit of one, two and three months,
will he given, on flitereft and good fecuritv.
. 0&o*rl J 3 ,wtS_
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not before disposed of at private sale)
ON Fridfiy, the firtk day of December, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants.' Coffee
House, in Philadelphia, Twenty Six Thousand Se
van Hundred and Eighty acres of LAND, in the
State of New-Yoik, between the northern bounds
of Pennsylvania and the Su'quehanna, now, or late,
in the townships of Hamden and Warren, and cotin
• ty ot Montgomery. One fourth of the ourcbafe
rf, money is to or paid at the time of sale ; for the le
ie- j "due a credit of one, two, and three months will be
given, on imcreft and good security.
•■ y t Ofloflc (3- flqwtS
,c " 1 Philadelphia, Oil. 24th, 1797.
ALL persons defirousto contra<it to farnilh Ra
tioos and Quarter Mafter'o Stores,during the
year 1798, for the troops in Philadelphia, Fort
Mifflin, on Mud Island, Carliflc ana Reading, or
any of them, are deGred to deliver their propofajs,
under a feajed cover, or or before the 20th No
vember next to , 1
5 TENCH FRANCIS, Purveyor.
1 The Rations to conjjft of
I pound Flour or lfrca4
d 1 pound Beef, or 340f a pound of Park
i- i gill Rum, Brandy or Whiskey
1 lb. Candles
a lb. So3p / .
2 quarts Vinegar ( To cvei 7 huQ<lred "tion. j
I quart Salt ) f&ftlßthN -
• Window Glass, ■
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than any other in
the City—
OF rjRIOTJS SIZES,
From 8 by 6 to 19 by 14,
a By the single Box or Quantity, may be had at the a
(lore of the Subfcribcrs, coiner of Arch and Front- t
street. h
James C. & Samuel W. Fijher. \
Philadelphia, June 9, C
Will be Landed,
From onboard the (hip Adlive, Capt.Blair,from
HaAibutgh,
30 bales white RufTia clean Hemp
% caflcs Clover Seed
For Sale by C
Thomas Herman Leuffer, c
NorthKfth street, No. 54. j,
Tune 26. 5
Young Hyson Tea.
40 chests of a superior quality—Also,
100 devof Hyson,
Imported in the Woodrop Sims, and for sale by
the fubferiber, corner of Second and Pine
street." ' <'
C. Haight. s
June.ir. . eotf
Cedar Shingles. t "
THE fubferiber has a quantity of 3 feet Cedar e<
Shingles cf-« superior quality, for sale at 13 m
dollars psr thousand.
William Hallowell,
No. 193 North Third-Jlrcet. (
July 47. • eolit
Imported in the jhip Pigou,
And for l'alt liy John Morton, No. 116, South W
Front-street, at
Hyson "J ot
Hyson Ski. ( T of
Toting Hyson (
Imperial J
April 30. eotf
N O T I C E.
ALL persons indebted to the estate of Jo hn r-i
Striker, late of Tinnecum Township,
Buck's County, are requested to pay off their
l"tfpel£live debts ; and those having any de- t j,
mands against said estate, are desired to bring in n |
their accounts, to or
JOSEPH CHAMBERLAIN, isi \ Execu- co
MALLET PREVALT, j tors. rai
Sept. jB. Fo
MRS. G RATTAN
INFORMS her the public in general,
that her Souse, No. 192, Markot-ftreet, will con
tinue open during the fieknefs.
Board and Lodging in a separate room, ten
in a double room, eight dollars.
Fdr the convenience of those gentleman who
have not their 'amities in town, Mrs. ©rattan
will receive gentlemen to dine at half a dollar
a day. Augufl 29. —6t
Just publiflied,
And to be fold at the Bcokflores of H. £5" P.
Rice, No. 50, Market-street 1 J. Ormrod,
No. 41, Chefnut-fireet, and W. Young,
corner of Chefnut and Second-flreets,
An Syftem of Surveying;
IN WHICH IS CONTAINED, Fq
1. Decimal frailions, in a plain, concise,
and easy manner.
i. The extraflion of the fquareroot.
3. Plain trigonometry, rectangular and ob
lique. vcj
4. An exad method to cast up the eontents Hai
of lands. t f, e
S- Field surveying. Ge
The whole being performed without the use in 1
of scale and compafles, on a table of logarithms, of
In which is given some acci.ust of the variation of
of the needle, and the causes of its attrition, def
By SAMUEL MOORE.
Atiouft t. lawxw
Lately Publilhed, till.
In ane vol'. 8 vo. (price one dollar in boards) fold ec *
by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of Second and f l '"'
Chefnut streets, in I
A Colledtion of Papers on tjiefubje&of c f n
Billiouß Fevers, prevalent in the United
States for a few years pad. cri
Compiled by NOAH iVhZSTER, jun.
Containing letters from Doitors Seaman, Smith,
Buel, Taylor, Ramsay, Moofon, Rcynekls, Mitch
ell,on contagion, &c. &c.
Sc pt- li- ;t Ger
By John Fenno, N° up Chefnut Street
y I Samuel & Miers
r ARE Nraw openino, v
■"of- ' a- At War, '" iufe . No. 2?, Dock Strsst, a fr> (h
fine of Wookn and other funoble to
n> received by the late arri,vplt from Eog
sof , 7 "' fy fV" f°' '
Lisbon
•ere 1 eneriffe (, . ,
rea- Sherry, and ( 11 FT"."''"'- quarter caflcs
rth l'°rt lilies, J
lie, Ad'orted queen's ware in erates, &c.
hi, loth mo- 23d. diw;;taw3w.
. TO BE LET—At a moderate Rent, ~
- The principal part of aHOCSE,
) WlJHlNafhort didanee of the Coffee-houle,
which has been occupied far the lad four month-,
fix confiding of a good dining room and parlour, two
fee bed rooms and a dreiling room, two garrets, kitch
if" c"' wooc ' vau 't and cellar, all in excellent order,
he fit for the immediate reception of a small family,
ds None need apply but those who arc rel'pe&able „nd
le - regular. Inquire at tbe office of this Gazette.
2 P*- M ■ dtf
be Red Port Wine.
Just arrived, by the brig Iris, capt. Rhodes, from
_ Oporto,
Ked Port Wine in pipes, hlids. and quarter cases
a- 6c cwt. Cork, for sale by
16 Philips, Cramood, & Co.
" >'y "• - §
CUSTOM-HOUS^:,
'' _ Philadelphia, Sept. 175(7.
THE Merchants who st this time prefer, nav
ing t!ie;r veiTclj and Merchandize eutered and
cleared at ChciUror Marcus Hock,, —-are here
by notified, That in compliance with their ile
fire, and upon a full convilft !0n tbat the measure
will be mutually beneficial lo tbrrii and to the
united States. The collefioi ps the euftomahas
made arrangements to eftat<!i(h for some time
branches 0/ the cullom-houfe at those places,
_ where every accommodation in his power will
he given to the merchants. dlw
# TO "BE SOLDi
And immediate po/fejjion given,
A Convenient well finifhed Brick Tenement,
with a cook house and other out houfes.Ctu
e atcd in a pleasant part of the borough of Wilming
. ton, in the State of Delaware—The lot of ground
has forty feet front on Wcft-ftreett and extend*
through the square to Pafture-dreet, on which is 1
erected a dable and carriage honfe. 1
ALLEN M'LANE.
Wilmington, Aug. jo.
1 City CommiJJioners Office, i
August 29, 1797.
IN pursuance of an Ordinance of the Seleii and !
Common Councils, paflcd the Jld day of May lad.
Proposals in writing will be received hy the City
ConamiDfioners for one month from the ift of Sep- 1
tember next, for letting to rent on leases for one
year to commence the firll day of January next, the
following public property of the city— J
The wharf and landing on Vine Street, "
Also on SaiTafrat, J
Mulberry,
And High Streets, J'
Chefnut and Walnut Streets, JJravr Bridge, with ''
tha Scale and Filh Houses, Sprnce, Pine and Cedar x
Streets. , j
The cellar under the City-H«ll.
The Tavern at the middle ferry on Schlfflkill, «
with the lots cft'ntiguous thereto, (except so much
thereof as shall be occupied by any buildings ere<£l
ed for the.use of the Colle&orof the Tolls, or be
necedary for the toll-gates.) *
Ang. 3 3tawim.
LOST, ' S
ON the Paflyunk Road, between the Blue BaH | t
and the city, a Fowling Piece, with a brass c
bai rel and silver fight j on the plate of the butt are p
the letters " Jamaica, 99" —and on the barrel {,
near the lock '• London" and thtToW4r damp. c .
Whoever will returnthe aid piece to Barnard, ■
atthefign of the B'ue Ball on the Pallyunk Road, „
or the office of this Gazette, lhall receive a reward I 1
of Four French Crowns,
Sept. 12. »3t
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT agreeably to an aid of Congrcfs ot the />
United States of America, pal Ted at Phila
delphia, the 18th day of May, 1796 ; laying du
ties on Carriages, for the conveyance of persons,
which lhall be kept by or for any .person, for his .
or her own use, or to let out to hire, or for the
conveyance of paflengers, the several dutiee and
rates following, to wit -. m
For and upon every Coach, 15 dols.
upon every Clnriot, i» dols, '
upon every Pod Chariot, 12 dols.
upon every Pod Chaise, u dols.
upon every Phaeton,with or without top, n0
9 dols. fr
upon every Coachee, 9 doll. re,
upon other Carriages, having pannel work <u-'
above, with blinds, glades 01 curtains, Pi
9 dols. w
upon four wheeled Carriages, having fra
med pods and topi with (leel springs, 6
dols.
upon four wheeled Carriages, with wood- HI
etyir iron fpringsor jacks, 3 doli.
i»pmi Curriclei with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chaises with tops, 3 dols. J.
uponChairswithtc.ps, 3 dols.
upon other two wheel topcarriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carriages, with deel or
iron fprirgs, 3 dole.
For and upon all other two wheel carriages, 1 dols.
upon every four wheeled carriage, having
framed pods and tops, and reding up- ■
on wooden spars, 2 dols. , 3
The Collectors of the Revenue for the fird Sur- '
vey of the Didrifl of Pennsylvania, will attend C a
daily, until thi 30th day of September u'xr, (or '
the put pose of receiving the duties on Carriages, at °
Gerinantown; at the house of Daniel St. Clair,Efq.
in the County of Montgomery ; and at the house
of James Chapman, Efq, in the County of Bucks ; L .
of which allperfonspAtHed of fuck Carriages are
desired to take notiqe. D
Notice is also given, 1
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dif- i
tilled spirituous liquors, that licences will be grant-
ed to them ; one licence for carrying on the bufi
,nefs of retailing of Wines, in a less quantity, or
in less quantities than thirty gallons—and one li
cence for carrying 011 the business of retailing Spi- ® ou
rituous liquors in left quantities than 20 gallons, at orl
the fame time and at the fame places, by the offic
ers legally authorised to grant such licences. yj
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpeiior of the Revenue of the fird fui
vey of the Didriit of Pennfyhaifia. "
Office of Infpeflion at 7 1
Germantow, 12th Sept. X 797. } I * l
r . Philadelphia, Del. 13.
' riifi fubftriber?inform jheir friem's and cudo
mcrs in town nnd cqurtry.tha' their floras arc nov
r.ih open inthecity, and others are nai'y opening, art.
eto that fior.-. :U; prcfent appiarance ®f the p-evsiiinl
og- di.'order have rsafan to hope, their i'rig.nd« fa-*'
shortly come (o ! in; city with perfect sis ty. E'
ieveral late arrivals, nambert hive,received frtii
supplies of GOODS,
a,, jWert Smith b J Co. P IV. Gallaurfet Co
W Co. Sitgrea-ves isf French,
heill Smith, George Dobfon,
Ifiltberger and Smith, Thomas Rye,fun,
—• Alex Btjland and Co. T. K. Hardenberg.
Jacob * perry and Co: John Smith and Co
h Jona. Jones-t ThotoasOrr 9
i r Keppele ZaHtzinger, William Barker U Co.
(j, -ddam Zantznger,. Thomas Armat cf Son.
yo ' John Fries, J. Miller. jun. and Co.
ah. °fl- 14-
iy.' Peale's Museum.
id I HIS valuable repository of the works of !Ta-
J_ ture, so well calculated to delight the mind
and enlarge the underftamhng, ii opened daily, as
usual. It (lands in an airy and healthy (ituaiion,
and free from the epidemic that at present affliils
the city ; it may, therefore, be frequented with
the greate'ft fafery.
As an Amusement, the dudy of Nature is 'Jie
® mod rational and pleating : as a Science, the mod
ftibiime and mdruAive. It elevates the mind and
expands the heart. They
»' It'htm Nature 1 works can charm,ivitb God bimpf
" Hold convey ft."
Many iiiterjfting additions have lately been
made to this Muftum : acd the feathered tribe,
/- containing a v.u-iety of the mod rare and beautiful
id fubjefis, is now very advantageously arranged.
Waxen Figures, of Men large as life (some of thyn
e . cads from nature) are here dressed in tb.ir proper
e habits, and placed :n attitudes charafteri<9ic of their
ie refpeflive nations. Were may be fee* the North
„ American Savage, and the Savage of South-Amcri
1C ca —* laboring Chinese, and the Chincfe Gentle- I
s man—the sooty Africaq, and tbe Kamtfchadalc-.-
]j with some Natives of the South Sea Islands. The
immenlV variety and interesting diversity which
- this Museum offers to the view, may be seen but
•annot be described with full effr&,
g? Price only l-4th of a dollar,
t, *8 ■ Taw
Boston Glass Manufactory.
J 'T'HB citizens of the United States are hereby
s X informed, that the manufa&ure of Window
s Glass is new commenced at the Glass House in Bos
ton.
It is needless to fay any thing of the excellent
quality of the Boston Glass, as it is so well Itnown
_ throughout the United States to be in every refpedt
greatly superior to any ever imported from Europe.
It will be cut lo any fiz? commonly used ; and
j may beconftantly had by applying to Cmarles F.
Kupfer, at the Glass House.
* Orders from the distant States to be addreded to
Mr. Samuil Gore, Court-street, Boston.
. Boston, Sept. 30,1797. O 4—lawiw
. Mrjfrs. Timothy and Mason, Cbarlejlon ; Mejfrs.
Hodge and Beylan, Halifax, IV. C. Mejfrs. Willett
and 0 Connor, Norfolk ; Mr. Ellit Price, Alexandria ;
MtjfrK Yundt and Brown, Baltimore ; Mr. Hopkins,
New-York ; and Mejfrs. Hudson & Goodwin, Hart
ford ; Mr. Seymour, Savannah ; are requeued to insert
( the above once a week 6 •weeks. Tie accounts to he Jar
t varied to- the Editor.
At a Meeting of the Board of
property, Jane 6, 1797,
' Present John Hall, See'ry. ,
Francis Johndon, R.G. >oflandoffice
Dan. Brodhead, S. G. J
Nicholas Betringer, )
Versus C
Samuel Cunningham.)
In this ate the proof of frrvice of notiqe be
ing inl'ufficjent, 11 isordered that notice be gwr
; ; in one of the Philadelphia and York newfpa-,
pert weekly, for at leali eight weeks to the
heirs or aliignees of Samuel Cunningham de
| ceased, to atttend,the board on thefirft Vlonday
in November nest, to Ibew caule why a patent
(hould not ifiiie to Nicholai Bettingei for the
land ip queiUou.
(4- <rue Copy.J
>OHN HALL,
Secretary of the Land Office. .
Aug. ff. *iawßw.
At the Federal Blast: Furnace,
In Carve/—;for Slitting, Platting, and Rolling I
Mil ls.
SEYMOUR'S Patent Rollers.
THEIR superiority conjijls in being free from
holes and honey-combed plaees, ivhich are com
monly found in rollers cafi in sand, or day
moulds. Theft patent rollers are cafi in iron
moulds, prei-to'jij heated, and will be found to
be more dense. solid and durable tlpn any rollers
heretofore used. Another important advantage
they, have ever others, is, that the necks require
no turning, but are immedaitely Jit for use, and .
from their accuracy, run ivitb less frill ion, and
require iefs water to make ther i perform their
work. 1 hey may be had by application to the
Patentee in Plymouth, of GV;;. A'atbatuel Qaou- .
win, or of MeJJrs. Thatcher O'ld H^yward
Bojlott, Aug. 3i. Sept. 19. §6l. ,
This Day is Published,
IJY Mess. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the .f
other Bookfcllcrs, u
Pncc One Dollar an*!.twenty-five cents.
Elegant y printed on Wove paper, and Hot- p
prejjed,
By John Thompson,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of the several States with each other, and with
that of the United States: exhibitingih fables,
the prominent features of each Constitution, and
clafling together their roost impertant provisions.
under the several heads cf administration ; with
Notes and Observations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Carolina, , B
L L. D. and member of the Congrcfs of the
United States. T
Dedicated to the People of the UnitedStMes.
N. B. A few Copies printed on an inferior pa
per, at 3-4thsof a dollar.
February 6 mwf
Public Notice is hereby given, "
THAT tbe CommitTioners for the Uiftridl of h,
Southwark have removed their hall to the lioufd j;
formerly occupied by Samacl Goff, Chridijn at in Cl
the corner of Fifth llreet. Oifb. i. r!t
Ad laying Duties en Stamped Vellum < l
Parchment and Paper. "J
A FEW copies of the above ail may be had at
h Odice of tha Gazette of the United States, No fj
I), Chcfnrt-ftr.et, July 19, f c
-
■u'ftoi Books and Stationary.
: nnw *->, w . " v
W. \ OUNG,
tiling No. tj, 5.\, otid-fh'cct, corner of Chefnut-ftfect,
W X-T n "W r.'ft'jy lor sale, a very large aflort-
By XI roer.t of £W//&. JWj, Z«//* W Gr«*
frsft BOOK-tf. -4fuch elementary books
on ocieuce,* as are generally read in the academies
and colleges tfjrougfeout the United States.
■ L, LATELY PUBLISHED,
• hertd-an s Dictionary, the sixth edition, in one
vol. 8 vo price 3 dols.
Ditto, large 12 mo price 1 dol. 75 cts.
Ditto., common, price 1 dol. 50 cts.
All forts of drawing, packing, printing, and
Co. r ntln .£ Pa P cr 5 Bookbinder's Boards, Padeboards,
Son. , a J :!in £ a "d blotting Papers ; printed Blanks,
' Co. ax » Wafer*', and other articles, 0/
the best quality, used in the counting house, or
public office.
U- Catalogues of a miscellaneous colle<sUon,of
BOOIvS, with the price of each affixed, to be had
V :i " Hy inquiring O6L24.—^aw6w
11 "us J u st Pubitjhedy and noun Selling,
ion, By- BENJAiMIN DA VIES, '
Ms At his Book-Stor.?, Nn 68, High-Street,
•»'> The AMERICAN REPOSITORY
ANNUAL AEG ipTEßfsrtbt UNITED STATES
10 . for the year 1798 :
aiu Containing complete and correct lilts of the Execu
... 11 ve, 1 cfciflative and Judiciary 1
'J<'f DEPARTMENTS of government,
And a variety of uieful tables, ncceflary to he
ecn known in rvery State of the Union,
'f )' Embellijhid ivitb tivo band fame Engravings,
1 u One ot wfcith is depictive of a meiauchoiy scene
( that occurred during the American war.
Oa. xg.
per ■— u -
J£jl Walker &c Kennedy,
• r >- A T o. 73, South Front Street,
l e * HAVE FOR SALE,
100 Hogsheads of prime Georgia Tobacco,
hs
ich ALSO,
$o Pipes of Bonrdeaux Brandy,
' xo Pipes of old Port Wine -
Oil. 17. law tf,
_ Thomas Herman Leuffer,
North Fifth street, corner of North alley, No. 34,
|j y HAS FOR SALS,
>w EXCELLENT red Bourdeaux Wine incafesani
J—' boxes, fix years old
White Graves Wine in caflcs
Tickleitfwrg*.
vn Russia Sail Cloths I
Ravens Duck
" Bag Linen
„ d ' Hessians
F Diaper and Table Cloth
Empty bags
to Cammoa German Cloth
An affortmentof black coloured Ribbons
w Fine German Laces
■ About twelve tons Russia clean Hemp
a ' t Clover Seed
2. Italian Soap, in small boxes, for family ufc
W| Window Glass Aug. ag.-—law
Imported in the latest arrivals from
rt Amsterdam and Hamburg, and forfale by
2 B. J. Bohlen,
jf 4 large ajjortment tf fine French Cambrics,
PUtillij Kuffia mdDutch sailcloth
B r ittannia» Writing, ppft, and print-
Roiianes ing paper
Brown Holland Dutch calf skins
Checks and flripes Prime madder
Ticklenburgs Shell'd Barley
Oznahtirgs Looking glsfles
M hite fteetings Hollow glass ware
" Diaper Slates
B: own rolls Coffee nviHs
1 Umbrellas Brass kettles
Hair ribbons Scythes and straw kntvis
Black and white facet Tovs assorted in boxes
Befl Holland Gin in pipes
London particular Madeira Wine
c July 14- m&thtf
Mr. LAILSON,
WITH an intention to render service, and unde
ceive those Performers, who durij-g his abferice Mr.
_ Jaymond has tnuught proper to engage, thinks it
would be wrong in him not to inform those that
arc engaged, that it is withou: his approbation, and
g that he will not be in any way anfwerablc for Mr.
Jaymond's engagements.
PHILIPPE LAILSON.
n Alexandria, Sept. 15, 1/p 7. fit.
'j Excellent Bourdeaux Brandy
n Ditto ditto Claret in cases
0 Just received, and for Sale by
s Rundle Ifj Leech,
t -4".?- ir. iawtf
1 HIS DAY WAS PU3Llab£D,
d And for lale by 7HQ MAS HOBSON, at the
1 1 Stone House, No. 41, south Second street,
EVENINGS at HOME;
' OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED.
Confiding of a variety of Milcelianeous Pieces for
th.-inftruflion and aaiufen\ent of YOUNO PER
SONS—Six Volumes haiidfomely printedand bound
up in two volumes, price Two Dollars.
The variety and excellence of tliefe pieces »re
c such, that the book needs only to be known to be
universally esteemed one of the tnofi valuable pub
lications th t can be put into th<i hands of young
■ persons.
" Delightful talk to rear the tender thosght,
To teach the young idea how tu flioot,
To pour the frefli inflruclion o'er the mind,
To breathe th' enlivening fpirit,and to fix
The generous purpose in the glowing bread."
> Thomson.
August t4* mwf4w
THIS D » Y IS PUBLISHED,
1 By THOMAS DQBSON, at the Ston£
1 No. 41, south Second street,
Letters and Conversations,
Between several YoungLadict, on improving and ifi
terefting fubje&s.
Translated from the Dutch of Madame de Camln
with alterations and improvements,
Printed tnfine paper, andrmlly hound,
Price one dollar.
AMIDST the tide of modern Rairances, pamScij
tales of extraordinary distress, or of desperate or
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," and
which it would be for the honor of young ladies to
be ignorant of, this little book comas forward to so
licit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds of real life, the proper, bscaufs
elegavl and natural dignity and importance of the FinxiU
character is exhibited in an intcrefling point of view,
and preferits examples of real and attainable exoel
lence.
The publifter was fomuch pleafedwith the peru
fal.thathe was persuaded he ihonld do a pleasing
service to tlw community by finding it iti 0 cipCu
-1
[Volume. XIISALEM, (Ma"';) Oct. 17': ( P erha T
According to a writer oti the means of j conqm
prefervhi;; health ,5a populous place;, thr* ,«i cifi
town-pofic lies, in th«! the moll j l J,l g F
k l ' "i ll r.ii'lhs f->'.' pveferving th- b?a'th of i I ''
its inhabitants ; as they are thereby fupplr- j not b<
td with gc&d water, kept pure and whole- | bon w
fonj- by conftanl mot'on ; while the ft ill j groun
v < ■- -.veils, rendered mors unv>"holfome - :t - e <
bv tlvc piitrefcent aud fijtby matteri.. yards, <-Titory
fl'.:b!e3,'&c. continually soaking in them, in may 1
old and populous towns, is a mean of pro* i
during putrid fevers, and every, fpccirs of ) M
chronic diseases. Not only the wholefoms- j 1 '
fiefs of visuals and drink, but tbc falybrfiy pe»«
of our eloat'iing, depends upon.the purity jof G
of the water wfe use. It is eftential that our J ber,
linen, and other clopthes which apply to the o'dh
fein, should be washed in pure water; o- then
thcrwife the effluvia will notrba sweet cr char:
healthful. The difference in the /mill c! i
linen washed in pure water, and that wafted at 1
ill the putrid rain water which Ims been G
confined in a ciflern, will prove the superior- rivec
Jty of the former/ It is also of confi-quence now
that the face and hands 'should be washed in is td
pure water, that all the particles abforoed
bv the pores may be salubrious.
' ln S
The violent gale of wind on Sunday even- emit
ing the Bth inil. took oil' 40 feet of the roof witu
of Mr. Benjamin in Lynnfield, tion
which was new ; and about half the root of wit
Joseph Gowen'a bam, in the fame town. In on
Dan'vers, it unroofed the cider mill of Capt. and
James Foster, and drove parts of the fame htu;
through the fide of hi. dwelling house into that
■ a lower room and chamber, knocking over tion
a chert of draws and other furniture. In dut
the adjoining orchard it tore up and broke oja
off 16 flout apple trees. In its course, thrc
northeast, it twitted off many other trees, mg
and did considerable other damage. at t
1 llO'
DEDHAM, (Mass.) Oftober 17. the
and
rural ECONOMY. a^-c
The cheapness of land in this country
gives a great advantage to our produce in. anc
foreign markets, which balances ill a great
meifure the high price of labour. On th*
contrary, European grain and meat go dear bg
to market, because land is there very high,
though the wages of labour are low. But >f
our agriculture and manufactures cannot gt;
profit to the full extent of tb;s advantage,
while fuel is so dear. In.England, coal is
cheaper than fire wood in this town. ihe r
scarcity of fuel is therefore an obflacle to
the growth of American improvement,
vhich will stint %nd dwarf every thing
that our hopes have anticipated, unless Come ca
remedy can be found out. Coal mines, if M
discovered, would be a national blefling
and treasure. To make our roads turn- H
and our rivers»navigable for rafts and y
boats, woitld do a great deal of good by
conveying with ease and cheapness the fuel
from places where it cumbers the land, to
places where the inhabitants are fhiveruig
for the want of it ; and where, it may be c<
added, manufacturers are deterred from set- c _
tljcp- for fear thai they (hall freeze. The h
at c.f tv.rf or peat common in Ireland,
r.nd it is said to be abundant in quantity, £
excellent in its kind, in many parts of n
this viciiiity. Much of it is dug at Meno- c
tomy in Cambridge and in Lexington. Our c
bogs should be explored—wood i» however {
so much preferred, that nothing else will be j
generally made nfe of. Economy in burn- Ij,
fng wood is an immense resource. More {
was toafied fifty years ago than is now want- f
ed.—Stoves, smaller fire-places, warmer t
houses, more care in mending broken panes ]
of glass, and fnutting doors, are ways to {
snake less wood answer ; and we live by (
, tbefe means as warm in our houses as our (
prpdigal forefathers did in theirs. , ,
To all this may be added the oare pur ;
farmers have taken of late to fence the
wood lots from the cattle. Tn this single (
town, the cattle turned out to browze in {
the spring have, within the last thirty years,
prevented more wood from growing, than ■
would have paid two or three fold the value
of the pasturing of tliefe tree-destroying
fteefs and heifers. What would farmers
fay of a man who should turn hi; cows and
oxen in June into his corn-field ? Proba
bly the young cattle do more mifchief in
May to the unfeneed or badly fenced sorest
trees. Cattle at large are a nuisance.
Would it not be a regulation well deserv
ing the attention of the general court, to
require every town to plant the fides oi the
public roads with for-A trees,
•< Trtm forms a Jbtltcr, anj from btat a JtaJc."
How matiy cords of wood might thus
grow in 30 or 40 years ? Let our political
economics calculate the length of all our
roads, the number of trees and the quantity
of wood. Any computation, fair and un
fair, would result in proving the wisdom of
such a regulation. Posterity would be proud
of it, and thankful for it too.
Surely, in point of ornament and ufeful
- ness it would vie with the law requiring guide
posts, which every body approves.
The planting quick growing trees, as
willow, Lombardy poplar, balm of Gilead,
&c. certainly deserves attention. ' Even the
elms, ash trees, button woods and maples 1
wili pay for planting by their growth 5 and
on the borders of fields their shade probably
does as much good as harm. ,
The fubjea is of deep concern to the
public. The refourees for favir.g and mr
creafmg fuel, mentioned above, may beSuf
ficient for our present numbers. But if we
hope to thrive in arts and manufactures, and
increase in numbers, our legislature mud pay
_ n ~ a nd viVilarit attention to the fnpply
of this great necefTary of lif^—si -word to
{he wty is/'ft'""*-
The French are unmaking republics and
making them over again in Italy, with new
" names and limits. If the arms of the con
nueror were withdrawn, we should fee
,:,i, e ther the Italians would and could ,up
t,ort the new orders of thidgs. -Their coun
try is so broken to pieces by separate fove-
igd'ties that it seems to want the spirit, an 1 tals ; i
rliaps the means, to defend itfelf from diftref;
mqueft. We fee what is the confequen e ta;n, a
disunion, from whicb, good Lord, lon s, countr
ng prcferve us ! to fyir
The Germanic body, it is slated, mi ft 1 hrart,
at be fevered, and that the diet of Ratif- i 'numar
on will not approve a peace on any fush j make
round. This, if true, will interfere with \ th" m,
lie ceflion to France of the Germanic ter- la.t de
itory on the left bank of the Rhine, and Iri
nay obstruct the negotiation. order
—, — perity
NEW-BRUNSWICK, October 24. fubor
The President of the United States is cx- Some 1
jefttd in. this City, on his way to the fjat Bu
jf Government, about the ninth of Novem- ven ii
x*r, when it is hoped the citizens will cor- or of
lially embrace the opportunity of paying withr
the merited refpeft due to so distinguished a or to
:harafter. Hes, 1
This day the Legislature of this State met authc
at Trenton. will
On Friday last, Gentral Kosciusko ar- to t
rived in this city from New-York, and dernt
now at General Whites, where it is said, he mtrcy
is td remain for some time. raise
little
The President of the United States, hav- H
ing gratified the citizens of, and in the vi- fueh
cinity of New Brunfwick, by honoring them j head
with his polite acceptance of their invifita- j be pi
tion (thro* their committee) to dinevwith j T
with them at the City of New-Brunfwick | in w
on Thursday the 9th day of November, neitl
and the troop 3of cavalry, wbofe fortunate quo!
situation has put it in their power to pay fort
tl'at refpeft which is due to the exalted fla- j Ext,
tion, worthy character, and approved con- j
dust of the chief magiflrate of the United 1
States, by cheerfully agreeing to escort him a fl;
through the State of New Jersey, dn his go- age
ing to the feat of government, and having for
at the fame time expressed their wifli that I j C/"
should give them due notice when and where I 1
they should attend to execute this voluntary | one
and pleasing duty of citisen soldiers, and not
also the necefTary inftru&ions to perform the son
fame, it is therefore with equal cheerfulnefs I ry <
and pleasure, that I now embrace the car- frei
lieft opportunity of complying therewith.
The following arrangements I conceive will tor
be proper and molt accommodating to the I fha
troops of cavalry which will hare the honor 1
of escorting the President of the United me
State# through the state. The troops near- a r
eft to the President's route will be th« fol
lowing, viz. Major Meeker's of the Bergen rai
squadron, Major Ward's and Hayne's of wl
the EfTex squadron. Capt. Edgar and Ma- I
jor Dunham's of tfte Middlesex squadron, pu
capt. Gulick'sof the Somerset squadron, and to
- capt. Smith's of the Hunterdon squadron. to
Major Meekw's troop will therefore be in an
readiness to receive the President at Powle's j ex
, Hook on the day he leaves the City of New- irr
York, of which he must get the moll cer- I r
I tain information, and cfcort him to New- I p
ark Bridge, where Major Ward's troop j
' will receivs and escort him to Elizabeth I r
I Town, where capt. Hayne's troop will re- I .
e ceive and escort him to Woodbridge, where re
capt. Edgar's troop will re«eive and escort "
c him to New-Brunfwick ; on leaving which L
' place, he will be escorted by Major Dun
\ ham's troop to Kingston, where he will be I
I received by capt. Gulick's troop, and ef- I
corttd tp Maidenhead, where he will be re-
II ceived and escorted by capt. Smith's troop j
" l 1 to Trenton.
' e I As the following military honours art on- j
l " ! ly due to the chief magiflrate of the United I
re States, they ate inserted for the information
t_ of fuchof the officers as may not recolleft
er them. Each troop when they receive the
" President, must be poffefled of the squadron .
to flandard, for which purpose when there are
'Y two troops from the fame squadron, the ftan- |
Jr dard bearer of the escorting troop must ride i
ahead when he comes in fight of the receiv
ur ing troop, and deliver the standard to the i
! e proper officer. On receiving the President,
the troop must be drawn up in one line, in 1
ln such a situation that the President may pass |
rs ' from the right. The Cornet with his co- 1
an lours, a Serjeant Corporal, and four Dra
ue goons advanced about 50 yards in front—
"s tl, e standard to be fupportcd by the second
lieutenant in the centre of the troop, swords
drawn,-trumpets founding a march, stand
ard dropping to the ground,officers fnluting.
On the President's being seated in his car
riage, the cornet with the advance (will
■ precede the-troop about 50 yards by files)
1v " the troop then re(urn their swords, wheel
to and march by quarter ranks, 150 yards
before the President's carriage, in which
order of m? ch, they will proceed until
they come to the troop drawn up to4eceivc
iub him, when the Cornet's party halts until the
cal troop joins them; the whole then draw
our their swords, wheel from the centre in front
Jty by files to the right and left about, and in
un- returning, pass the President's carriage on
los each fide. Officers, standard and colours
)U d to ths right of it, Officers fainting, stand
ard and colours dropping as they pass. On
ful- the President's halting at any itage (which
ilde must be previously known by the command
ing officer) the troop forms as before, return
as their swords, dismount, and stand dressed
; ad, until, the President has passed tham; no offi
the cer to salute, the standard only dropping,
pies It is expe&ed Major Meeker will get-certain
and information of the exaft time when the Pre
;bly fident leaves the City of New-York, and
give timely notice of it to Major Ward,
the which notice must be forwarded on by a
in- speedy andfafe conveyance to the officers
fuf- commanding the above mentioned troops on
: we the President's route in order that they may
and be in readiness 'to receive him.
Anthony W. White.
P a /
J'Jo ' AUGUSTA, Oaober 7.
Our late remarks on the cruel treatment
of slaves, disclaim all desire of scattering fire
and brands, and every other illiberal motive,
new The, chief objett was, to recall the attention
con- of an enlightened people to crimes against
fee humanity, which every man of reflexion
ftip- must, therefore, wffh to have prevented,
run- We have felt deeply for tbofe evils, that
bve- have destroyed so many of our brother mor-
s ; involved many others nvdiffiailties and , mimm
Irefs. which hum an nature can hardly fuf-'
11, and b'Jried in ruins a fine and opulent
untry. But while we thus give our mind
fyinpathy ; if, by chance, we meet a
art, that is made callous to the touch ol TIIU
imnnity, by those ajTiiftions, which should I -
ake it abundant in compaflion, we pity I It is
i» man, as we (liould one reduced to the I
It degree of human infelicity. j 2 ,j' o f
Irt all communities, large or small, goAd I j rom
•der is fflential. not merely to th?ir prof- I armed
,-rity, but to their vatl ex'llence. Hence j bound
ibordination i\ altogether indispensable. J
nmemtijl comtnand ; and some muj! obey. I
But t\\\s\'eeonomy cannot be eftabliflied, e- I jyj r «
en in private families, whether of children, I Mr
rof servants, without the rod. That is, I M-.
,-ithout the txerfiiCe authority, to rcjlra'm, J
r loprevent. And happy are those fami- j r
whofe head can eipercife this necessary I Mri
uthority with judgment, and who never I Mr
krill fuffer the wild appellative, anger, I Mr
o turn his bread into a savage wil- j
lernefs, by banishing its lovely inhabitants, I Mr
nercy, and those nameless sensibilities, which I Qn
aife the sons of earth, until they become a j papei
ittle lower than the holy angels. 1 w!),cl
Happy indeed are families blest with I
*ueh a head. But supremely happy is the | was
bead so blefled with wisdom. His life fliall I rj,
be pleasantness; and his latter end, peace. I p
To prove that our notions on this fubje^f, I
in which humanity is deeply interested, are I
neither vi/lonary, nor unprecedented, we might I j
quote several refpedlable authorities. But I
for the present we shall only subjoin. I c > rc
ExtraSs from slave laws lately pojfed in Ja- I
ma tea. 1 aTI h
The firft prohibits the turning away of 1
a Have, when incapacitated by sickness, or I
agej and it obliges the pofieffor to provide, I
for such slave, Wholesome necefl'aries of life. J
Cj" Penalty for every offence, ten pounds. I
Thcfetond imposes a fine, not exceeding L
one hundred pounds ; and imprifdnmcnt, I
not exceeding twelve months, on every per-
son who (hall mutilate a slave. And in ve- I
ry atrocious cases, the slave may be declared
free.
The third eaa&f, that any person wan-1 ,
tonly, or bloody mindedly killing a slave, I ,
fliall fuffer death. _ I t^e
The fourth fubjefts to fine and imprison
ment, such persons at (hall punish (laves, in 1
a manner by that law forbidden.
The fifth direfls a parochial tax to be
raised, for the support of disabled negroes, £
who have nr> owners. I (
Note. The Codt Noir of France, firft
publifhcd in the year 1685, is superior even
to those in merey. But as we have reason
to believe, that code never was registered,
and promulgated in the islands, we offer no I
extradls from it, left an invidious motive be
imputed. I w;
Footman & Co's Außion Room, th
th
THE public are refpeflfully informed., that the 1
flore of the fubferibers is nowupcn for the 1
reception of Goods, and the Sales will commence I
on Monday next, the 30th inft. when will be fold, I ' a
, A large affortoent of Dry Goods. I S 1
. AMONG WHICH ARE,
Superfine and comrtion Cloths I °
Caflifneres, Flannels, Blankets I »
Coatings and Baizes I tc
"Cotton and worsted Hosiery
• Chintzes and Calicoes I ] ;
Chintz and purple Shawls j ,
Book and jaconet Muflir.s
, White and brown Lir ens, |d
Tickings, Checks and Stripes. I n
11 ■—AISO I b
A quantity of Ladies' Morocco Shoes,
c FOOTMAN to" Co. Auaiwttn.
n OA - -
e NOTI C E.
1- c 5» Samuel Richardit, rcfpeftfully 11
le informs ~(he gentlemen, fubfcriberß to the I ( -
r- Exchange, that on Thursday next, the 26th I
e inft. it will be openfor their accommodation. I
t, He begs leave to acquaint his friends and J
n the public, that the City Tavern will also I (
fs be ready for the reception of gentlemen I (
J- boarders. I j
a- An ordinary as usual at three o'clock. I (
Oflober 21. d' w - I
A Wet Nurse wanted.
, S /V Healthy Woman, with a young 6reaft of I
d " A milk, who can be well recommended, may I
R- hear of a plate by inquiring of the Printer.
ir- Oa. »3, > '»
Wanted, to Hire,
3 ) \ I-arge and convenient HOUSE, in or near I
'cl t\ the centre of the city—for which a gemerous
ds rent will lit given; to be taken for a year, or on I
ch lease for a longer term. Inquire of iho Printer.
til Oft. T7- ectf
ivc Choice St. Croix Sugar and Rum
he Coffee
Madeira and Teneriffe Wine
For Sale by
"? l James Yard,
in No. —, South Fourth-street.
on Oa. 6; <*3W
The Medical Leftures
In the Univerlity of Pennfylvanta, are pnft
poned until the lall Monday in November
lch next.
nd- Odlober 14. aaw<w.
jrn
red The Norfolk Mail STAGE.
,ffi-
ng. r-pHIS Stage starts from the GEORGE Tavern,
ain JL at the corner of Second and Arch Streets, in
> re _ Philadelphia, cvery
day, at 3 o'clock, in the irorning; arrives at Do
ina ver tli e firft day, at Snow hill the second day, at
ll"d, Northampton Court House the third day, and on
f a the morning of the fourth day the Eafleng-urs find
;ers afafe and comfortable packet ,to convey them to
, nn Norfolk.
A packet kives Norfolk for Northampton feiry,
na 7 every Tucfdiy, ThurfJay and Saturday, and the
Stigc starts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
Mon -'ay, Wcdnefday and Friday ; puts up at Snow
Hill the firft night, at Dover the id night, and ar
rives in Philadelphia ill the evening of the third
day. a
eDt Thediftance on this route, between Philadelphia
fire and Norfolk, is So miles left than on any fuge route
ivc. between those places
tion Too much cannot he said in favor of the-road,
inft which is most excellent indeed. proprietors
willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
hon paflenger, who, after having performed this route,
wi I fay thr.t he ever travelled in a stage for the fame
lhat distance, so good a roacj in America.
nor- August ij, (Jim.eotf.
jit
PHILADELPHIA, ' "IS
I'HUiiSDAY EVENING, Octosfr s5. l Y> tl,a _
MtT —- ! tuguel
It is with pleafurc we announce to the ppVKc , cal
the fafe arrival of the ship William Pcnn, Capt. fitive 2
Josiah, from Tendon, which port the left the II
nd of August, but into Falmouth, and failed s erve
from tlience 011 th lift. in company with the rj reat
armed iliip CW-opatra, Carnun Newell, of and . '
hound to tVi* port. In the William Bi'nn came 30 ceived
passengers, of which number the following were cal pr<
in the cabin, viz. gator\
Mr. Sam'jel Murgatroyd, Let
Mrs. Afcley aM I r^nfu
Mr. Jama* C. Filncr, 1 f ,
M*t# Tacob Rcfe, of PLiladelpk'ta . . €
Mr. Brovrfe.Triftc, I mtnift'
Colonel Thomas, I one hi
Mr. Peter Dohel, J havinc
Mr.. Frazer and 4 Children") of Ba!timor! ital h
Mr. Robert Rankin, j . ,
Mr . Stokes, of Burlington t ' l " 1
I Mr Samuel Minnick, of Ifrijlot peace
the a
Mr. John Webster. of I'lrfjrJ, ManlanJ. iards
One of the gentlemen favored us with I.ondon
J papers to the evening of the 29th ot August, from e
I which we have made extrafls. as frllow. The the L
I fame gentleman had a paper of the 3oVh, whiih I*l
I was 101 lat sea. (a d.a.) j8 gi
_ arrive
I The paper of the 30th August received q^ v
I at Falmouth, mentions that peace was con- w | lo
I eluded between France arid England —The rfn tl'
I papers that mention it were L'Eclair— j an( }.
I Mefiager du Soir. One other mentions
I its having just arrived by the telegraph and tions
I circulated in the hall of the Convention. — lines.
I The terms'were —France to have restored t h etr
I aTI her possessions in the East and Weft In- ter ; c
I diss., which belonged to her in May, occa
I —all the (hips taken at Toulon—the island j 0 t
los Ceylon and Trincomale to the Dutch— Gen
I Oftend a free port for all nations; and in vvorl
I compenfatien, the English to retain the p rec
1 r Cape of Good Hope. TJie French papers com
' were dated the 26th Augutt. £London been
I Evening The editor's opinion jnun
j J was, that the news was fabricated. barr
prep
LONDON, August 28. floo]
We yesterday received Paris papers to the I r |fl
' I 26th inft. which, as may be expe&ed from
I the short time that has elapsed since oar last gun
I communication from France, do not con- ht>p
n I tain much intelligence of importance. men
The negotiations at Udine are said not Q a r
' e yet to be concluded, though the journals 1; at C
S ' I express hopes thai the conclusion is at no ' ga
ft I g reat distance. On the fubjedl of the ne- f or <
I gotiation at Lisle, L'Eclair speaks in terms j
n I of more doubt, observing, that more mate- 1
rial difficulties and obstinate pretensions | i
' I stand in the way of it. Gui
The outward bound Lisbon and Oporto ren
3e I fleets are detained by orders of government, p o i
I waiting the return of the meflenger sent
I with expostulations from our cabinet to jjf {
I the court of Lisbon, against that part of f r o
their recent treaty with France, which re- by
I ftrifts our (hips from taking the accustomed are
he advantage of the Portuguese ports. It is
'ij 1 said, that unless her faithful majesty en- mc
Is £ a £ e l t0 re^c ' t ' le vv hole of that, and t b<
' I every other clause obnoxious to the interest th<
los Britain, our minister, the lion. Mr. de:
I Walpole, has received orders immediately ;
I to leave Lisbon. tie
By letters received last week from Hoi- th
I land, we learn, that the Dutch Tailors and
J soldiers on board their fleet are kept from
I desertion by a continual fucceflion of amuse
ments. Veflels, with bands of music on
I board, every day go down to the fleet, and j in
I liquor is diftributcd it) considerable quanti- ti i
j I ties. The murmurs of the people, how- fai
I ever, at the ina&ivity of their fleet, are »
general and loud ; but the Dutch admiral ™
, y still thinks that it would not be prudent to °
fail. ffl
. I August 29. m
lon " I Tuesday—one o'clocl. 5"
a . n r I This morning arrived Brussels papers to
a I the 22d. They still infill that the definitive
Tlel< I treaty between the emperor and the French q
is signed ; that Mantua, and all its dep.en- w
dencies, are evacuated by the French troops.
r ± I As a sign that hostilities may again take
I place in the Adriatic, the ce'ebrated colo- a]
1 of I nel Williams has been sent for t'o 1 riefte, n
may I to take the command of the emperor's ves
sels.
—— I Dispatches were received on Saturday at
I the office of his royal highness the com- ]
near I mander in chief, from Scotland, stating, i\
:rou ' I that some diflatisfadlion had been expressed r
c r r on at Mr. Dundas's plan for extending the rai
"f I litia to that kingdom, and that in confe-
TTTTI quence alarming riots had taken place, j,
j These, however, there is reason to believe,
I had been greatly exaggerated, as letters u
I from Edinburgh date, the accounts which c
they had firft received there, had happily
'ft-, been contradifted, and that they hoped to (
3W appease the spirit of discontent by prudence ,
and reconciliatibn. No doubt this ipirit j
post- has been fomented bj malicious mifreprefen-
mber tations, simitar to those repeatedly made
use of by a certain fa£lion, to impedd every ,
m?afure adopted by government,Wor the ,
defence of the country against her dellroy
ing enemies.
avern, Oh Friday a cartel arrived with English
:ts, in prisoners from France ; but in confequcnce
S, 0 f t bt resolution of our gove-tninent not
r ' o ' to exchange any more prisoners till Sir Sid
imlon ne Y Sm!th is releaied > tlie canel was order "
s find ed to return empty. . _
iemto Yctte'rday evening arrived the Paris la
pers of the 24th in it.
f . cl 7' No notice is taken in these papers of the
ratification of the conditions of peace be-
Snow tvvecn his imperial majesty and the French
nd ar- diredlory ; but if any rt'iance can be placed
third on t j, e last accounts from Vienna, inserted
, in the Paris journals, and on the tendency of
e route, public opinion in France, in favour of that
important event, it would leem that the sign
: -road; i n g of the definitive treaty cannot be very
rietors remo te/
to any with refpeft to the negotiations at Lisle,
iefame' the most eautious feerecy continues to be
observed, and though political speculation
sots. can alone supply the want of authentic m-
telligence on this interefling occasion, some
of the Paris journah venture to assert, on
the authority of a vague report, that the
negotiations are now at a ftdnd. ,
We are are assured from the best authori
ty, that the Chevalier D'Ahneida the Por
tuguese envoy, in his late interview with
the cabinet ministers, hpd given the most po
sitive assurance, that the Portuguese cabi
net, in all their negociations, would pre
serve inviolate the treaties exiting with
Great-Britain ; Mr. Walpole has alio re
ceived from the cabinet of Lisbon unequivo
cal proofs of entering into no terms dero
gatory to thir connexions with this country.
Letters from Madrid, of the 3d instant,
mention the national finances to be in a state
of the greatest embarrafiment. The new
minister was about to negoctate a loan i>f
one hundred millions of rials. The court
having prolonged their residence in the cap
ital beyond their accuftosned time, left it
the Ift for St. Ildephonfo-. The prince. of
peace has received some frefh instances of
the of his sovereign. The Span
iards speak with rtiuch confidence of the
fafety of Cadiz from any future attempts of
the British fleet.
The El Rofario Spanish prize brig, cf
18 guns, commanded by lieut. Hubert, is
arrived at Portsmouth, with dispatches from
Gibraltar, and also from Earl St. Vincent,
who remains off Cadiz with the fleet,. app3- -
rently meditating fre(h attempts by sea and
land.
1 At Gibraltar they at length have indica
' tions from what passes within the Spanish
■ lines, that the Dons mean soon to annoy
' them, as they are*building frefh-monar bat
" teries, and collecting ammunition, on which
) occaficm the ftaff is removing from the town
' to the south, preparatory to operations.—
■ Gen. O'Rara has nearly completed the new
1 works ; all the magazines are treble" bomb
e proof. Thi works at Land Port are nearly
3 completed. A new foffe, 40 feet deep, has
" been cut out of'the solid rock, from the
a inundation through the causeway toForbes's
barrier, and u bridge, on a new model, is
prepared to be flung over. The Peterell
sloop, with the t ran sports, having on board the
e Irish artillery for the Weft-Indies, failed the
n 25th of July. The Ninfa frigate, of 38
ft guns, now called Hamadryad, captain Stan*-
hope, had arrived to repair, after an engage
ment with three French men of war off
Carthagena. It was reported and believed
Is ; at Gibraltar, that a bombardment of Mda
-10 ' ga was intended, when the necessary rein
e- forcement from England arrived,
ns
e- PLYMOUTH, August 26.
ns Arrived the Edgar and Robufte, of 74
guns each, from the channel fleet. The
to remainder, under the command oflord Brid
't> port, anchored in Torbay yesterday.
Nt Four in the afternoon.—A large
t0 .fleet of merchantmen, homeward bound,
from the Weft-Indies, is this instant pafling
rc * by ; they appear to be about 60 fail, and we
ed
are quite overjoyed at the pleasing fight- -—-
> s Six o'clock, P. M. " A signal is this
-n- moment made on Maker Tower, fignifying
nd the appearance of Lord Bridport's fleet from
eft the westward. They are luppofed to be
fr. destined for Torbay, to revi&ual, &c.
Ely ; " L'Unite, of 38 guns, and a line of bat
tie, are now standing into the found from
°1- the above fleet."
ind *
om BRUSSELS, Aogull 7.
I fe- Letjeit from the held quarters of the army of
on the Sambre and Meufe (late, that a great number
■I of threatening addrefles are preparing there,
in . in imitation of those agreed toby the tWp« in I
ntl- taly, to be distributed throughout the nation. Tin
3W- fame letters announce, that gen. Hoche has written
are n letter to ge». Moreau, for the purpose of pre-
j ra j vailing on him to participate in the pro codings
of the army of the Sambre and Meufe, and to e'n»
c gage him to unite againll the counter revolution
ists. The following answer is said to have been
made by gen. Morcau : " The conllitution prohi
bits the armies from deliberating, or interfering
in the affairs of the interior, and ( consider it my
. duty to obey it."
t,ve It is, however, very certain, that although gen.
:nc h Grcnier's division had discontinued its march to
3,en- wards the interior, it has notwithstanding receiv
ops. Ed frefh orders to hold itfelf in readiness to march
, a k e on the firft signal. This circumstance proves,
, lhat the prijeS of fending a new body of the
0 " army of the Sambre and Meufe into the interior i»
efte, not yet relinquilhed.
v*f-
VIENNA. Augujl 6.
yat General Clarke'a Secretary is again gone ta
:om- Italy. Some time after his departure the Neapo
:ing, litan Secretary set off to Paris with dispatches
effed relative to peace.
' We are assured that all ebflacles which were
mfe- i n /he way of peace are removed to the fatisfaS
lace. ' t on of our Court, and that the French direSory
ieve, has declared in the mofl friendly manner, that
tters a mifunderflatiding alone has delayed the negcti
hich ations.
spily It is said that BnonaparU willfhortly go to
;d to Gorice, and thatfuperb Fetes are to be given
lence ," B that city. she two fine regiments 0f tie em
lpirit peror't light horse, as also eight battalions of in
efen- fantry, will parade on that occasion,
made /i sword rfgreat value is much talked of,
:very which is destined as a prefentfrom his Imperial
■ the
| ma j t Jy to l^c French general.
troy-
PARIS, ugufl 34.
lglifh W e are assured that the peace has been ftgned
uence by the Emperor. It is added, in support of
: not this important intelligence, that the Courier who
• Sid- brought the account, arrived two days ago and
>rder- that the Dircitory immediately assembled ; that
three of the Directors refttfedto ratify the treaty;
s Pa- that the Courier was on the point offet sing off
with the order for re-cammencitig hojlilities,
jf the when the two other Direffors required thiir
:c be- protest to by inserted in the Regifler of the de
rench liberations. This demand terrified the three
jlaced others, who eaufed the departure of the Courier
ferted to be suspended. It is not known what refolu
ncy of tions have been fnee adopted.
f that ~ 7N~u~r I C iiT
e sign- c f ,he Department of War are for
e very the prtfent removed near to the Falls of the Scuyl
kill, on the kidge'Road.
"Y ,;{!» Sop'ember a. ■ ei, f
tJ be The mayor's ofkicfT"
ilation is ki?t, for the pittsrtfr, at the
tic in- CITY HAIX.. .-an.Dj ..n n ■ »'i7wi»iri»ißr>'^a
15y this clay's^Mail.
NEWBURY-pORT, Oftober 17.
It affords us a high degree of pleasure to
be enabled to (late, that the Committee ap
pointed to receive donation^forthe diflrefled
poor in Philadelphia, it) the few hours that
the fybferfption was "or>en, procured SIX
HUNDRED DOLLARS for that bene
volent purpose, anjl that the Chairman has
sent on the amoUiit to Mr. C.oates.
NEW-YORK, October 23.
Continuation cf Latejf European News,
received by the Chrfafieake.
PARIS, August 6.
Gen. Ferino, one of the most distinguish- 1
ed officers of the Rhine and the Moselle, '
and the companion of Gen. Moreau in his
memorable retreat, has been difmiflcd by the
Dirte&ory. W33 it his crime to have oppo
sed a legal resistance to the march of the
troops who were iilegaTly advancing to Paris?
The Council of Five Hundred, availing
themfelvesof the power entruftedto them by
the Constitution, have voted the difmifTalof
fevernl of the commiflarirs of the Treasury,
who were fufpefted of mal-praftices. The
Executive Directory has also dismissed Tru
don des Ormes and Popelin, two adminif- :
trators of the Department of Paris.
vMetthieu, an ex-conventionalist, who i
went out by-lot in the last drawing, is ap
pointed by the Dire&ory, a commiflary in j
the fame department.
Letters from Audicnne inform us, that ;
the Englidi have to make their ap
pearance in that quarter. The coast is not
put into a refpedlable state of defence.
( PerlctJ
VIENNA, August 7.
On the 30th ult. at 6 o'clock in the morn
ing, arrived here citizen Ferret, secretary to
the French General Clarke, attended by
Count Ceromini, an Imperial officer. He
alighted at the hotel of the Neapolitan Am
baflador, Marquis di Gallo. Baron Thu
gut'proceeded about noon to Enzendorf, to
lay the dispatches before his Imperial Ma
jesty, who seemed to be highly pkafed with
their contents. The Diredlory has now a
|jreed to the fottrefs of Mantua being refto
redto Austria ; but all the French ordnance,
arms, and ammunition, are to be removed
by the French.
We are now in diily expectation of re
ceiving intelligence that the Imperial army,
under the orders of Gen. Terzy, has march
ed into the Venetian Terra Firma. The
French have already sent back their heavy
baggagfc to Lombardy. Our troops en
camped near Roveredo, are to advance to Ve
rona, and on toward Mantua.
Several mercantile houses of this place
raifed in Switzerland a considerable sum
lif ir.oney for our court, by way of a loan.
W Citizen Ferret, secretary to general Clarke,
fct out at 3 o'clock this morning on his re
turn to Udioe* with thf dispatches he re
ceived from baron ■ Thugut. Eight hours
. before, the Neapolitan Ambaflador, Mar
quis di Gallo, left town for the fame place."
AMSTERDAM, August 5.
Most of the ancient representatives of the
Batavian people have been re-elecled. It |
appears, however, that the revolutionary or
violent party has enjpyed a decisive inftucfice
on the primary afTemblies. Deputy Vreede,
a clothier of is the Reader of this
party. He is a man of talfefits, and was the
member who, on accafion of the late note,
presented by citizen. Noel, asserted in the
convention that, with jxfpeft to the accep
tance or rejedlion of the conllitution, the
nation ought to a£t without any foreign
bias or influence. He has also published a
pamphlet tending to prove that the canfti
tution ought not to be accepted.
LONDON, August 21 —22.
Letters from Venice, dated the 27th ult,
state, that the municipality of that city had
publithed a proclamation declaring its inde
pendence and determination to form, with
the other free states of Italy, an indivisible
republic. Addresses to this effect to the
Executive diredlory of France, to Buona
parte, and to the people of Italy, wire re
ceiving the signatures of the inhabitants.—
The cities of the Terra Firma had renoun
ced all connexion with the capital, with a
view to evade the payment of any portion of
the debt of 44 millions contra£ledby the old
Oligarchy. At Verona and Brescia the ab
bies have been suppressed, and the property
fold for the benefit of tha French Repub
lic.
The falarieß and perquisites of the differ
ent offices and places is'lreland amount to
800,0001. per ann. which at one shilling in
the pound would produce an annual revenue
of 40,000]. a year.
It has been found expedient to continue
the 60th regiment upon its original footing,
and the Duke of York has been appointed
by his majesty colonel in Chief; to which, ,
however a iteiT trifling emolument ie annex
ed per cliem) The colonels command- ,
-ant 1 of the fcveral battalions having the fame I
precuniary advantages as the colonels of o- <
ther regiments of the line. The patronage '
of recommending to commissions rells with j
the colonel in chief.
The sloop of war atteuds, by the order t
of the admiralty-board, the packets from
tile Elbe to Yarmouth, on account of the a
late captures; which practice will now be 1
continued vyhile the present war continues. 1
Four frefh light sloops and a cutter, and '
two gun boats, failed from the river on
Friday and Saturday last, by order of the
Admiralty, to protefl the trade on the t
North and East coast, on account of the 1
number of Dutch privateers now at sea. <
Yesterday one of the Weft-India ships f
eame up to the Rotherhithe, for the purpose /
of delivering her cargo, which we underlland J
' voafiftt of no lefj than I J.3o.Ji«g(l»;als of
sugar.
A letter from the Hague, August
9, inserted in the lalt i'aris papers, fays,
" The present filtration of France, has had
( an influence very unfavorable to the accept
ance of the new eonftitution. A number of
I people with very good intentions, but fear
ful of pronouncing when the future appeared
so uncertain, did not appear at all in the
! primary afTemblies ; so thaUhere and in the
( neighborhood they ha?e been thinly attend
ed. The number of citizens entitled to
vote at the Hague, mull amount to near
6000 ; and there have been only about 500
votes for the conllitution, and 800
it."
' Another account fays, the rejeftion of the
Dutch. conftitutjon arose from the circum
stance of the conllitution') not being fuffi
cientty democratic for the Jacobins, and be
■ J ing of course uo.pl*afant, therefore opposed
1 equally by both. The following article
1 from Haerlem, dated the 1 rth, was received
: yesterday.
" There have been 797. voices for, and
133 1. voices again (I, the acceptance of the
new conllitution in the afTemblies of this
city. -
" The inhabitants of all the great towns
in Holland, particularly in Amster
dam, are very hostile to the French, and en
deavour, by every means in their power, to
(hake off the French yoke. The Dutch,
in all their public meetings, make no.hefi
-1 tations in expressing the flrongeft antipathy
1 against their
of tyranny dill keeps them in fubje£lion."
The deposition cf the director, Barrras, doling
| the famous proceeding of the Chattjlet, has lately
1 Vem publilhedat Paris, in ot)pofition to the certi
ficate of his age, which the Prd-conful Fi eron sent
'.him from Provence, while he was Robcfperiring
j in that Province. This deposition was posted up
r.ll over Paris. It begins as lollows :—" Faul
■>Jean Francois Nicolas de Barras, 32 y arsold." —
It,was made in. the year 1793; Barrai was., there
fore, n6t older thufl 37 years, when, abcu: the
eftd of 179.?, he was cliofen a dire&or, and has
not yet-attaiijed the age of 4c, which "i« required
by the eonftitution His holding the pUc? of- tli
reiSor is, consequently, an open violation of the
conflitutional a<S.
The last advices received from Ad-rural Duncan
dated that the BritiCh and Dutch fleets continued
nearly in tin fame position as when he wrote be
fore. -rtn officer 011 bojrd the Inflexibly, writes
under the date August 8, as follows :— ;1 We are
in company with admiral Duncan, in a fleet confid
ing of 19 fail of the line, besides frigates, blocking
lip the Text 1, and the crews in high spirits at the
thoughts of the Dutch coming out, as they think
they will be able to give a eood account of them,
(hould they attempt it. They have 23 fail of the
line, hut fevcral 40 gun (hips are amorgft them.
Our fleet has just received a frelh supply of provi
fionsand water."
Capt. Brydges, of the Prince of Orange packet,
arrived at Yarmouth, l*w the British fleet to the
ealiward of the Texel on Tucfday lalt, and the
following day was chafed by a Dutch cutter.
Sickness has began to manifeft itfelf on board
the Dutch fleet. The crowded state of their velTels
is flatcd as the principal cause.
August 23.
Captain Patrick Campbell, of the navy, who
arrived a few days ago from the Cape of Good
Hope, with dispatches from gen Sir James Craig,
brought rdvicc of the fafe arrrival of Lord Ma
cartney, en the 4th of May, and that every thing
was then quiet at that settlement. The troops
were healthy and in good spirits.
EAST INDIA NEWS.
Yesterday morning an overland expref»
was received at the East India house from
Madras.
This day a court of directors was held as
the East India House, for the purpose of
reading the dispatches received yesterday.
Their purport we underlland to be of a
disagreeable nature, but by no means so hos
tile to the peace of India, as has bcerf re
ported.
In cotifequence of some dispute between
Tipoo Saib aud the Rajah of Cotiote, ref
petfting Elephants, a detachment of troops,
confiding of 1000 men, headed by colonel
Dow, marched towards that province, for
the fake of ending the dispute by treaty or
arms ; when, on palling from Wynaad into
Cotiote they were attacked by the refradlo
ry Rajah Pyche—oll the early retreat of
colonel Dow, the command devolved on
major Cameron, who after <1 gallant refin
ance, fell at the head of his troops. In this
unfortunate aflion we loft 300 men and -a
great part of our ammunition.
The following is a lift of the killed and
wounded— ~
Killed—Major Cameron, Lieut. Nngant,
Ensign Mudge, and Ensign Ruddiman.
Wounded—Capt. Budden and Ensign
Fallow.
In confequenee of the above unhappycon
teft, Governor Duncan, attended by Gen
eral Stewart, proceeded from Bombay to
Tellichcrry, in order to confer with the
ministers of Tippoo, leaving Sir Charles
Malet and Mr. Page charge of the Govern
ment.
•The latest advices from Bombay state the
agreeable news of Tippoo's return to Serin
gapatam, from what had been termed a
hunting party and of profpedl of tran
quility being about to restore the Ciotic pro
vine*. V
YARMOUTH, Aaguft 20.
"Last night Efpiegle, Capt. Boorder, arrived
here, with the French privateer-La Prodigr, of
16 guns and 87 nun. She wis captured after a
chafe of 34 hours, running 2co miles. She made
but a flight resistance, hut it was fufficieiitly long
tocoft the Captain and Firll Lieutenant their
lives Capt. Boorder had only one man (lightly
wounded. Wecannnt but lament the fate of the
French Captain, as he has conduced himself
with uncomman humanity and politeness to
those prisoners that have fallen inro his hands .
The privateer had only IJ days from Dnnkirlt
and is so excellent a sailer, that there are few
veflels except the?(piegle',that could have over
taken her. She hrj taken.since the commence
ment of the war, upwards veflels."
TRENTON, October 24.
Two persons were lajl week committed to
the jail of this city for robbing the house of Jin
drew Blackwell, living in Hopewell townjhip,
of Cajh to the amount of about 5 pounds,
flt was reported that Air. Blackwell was to
have received a large sum of money the day be
fore the robbery.) The vi/!ians have confcjfed
n/citguilt, and thai cm George Still was their
accomplici anil leader, wflo is also taken and
eonfined in the jail of Fleming/on. The ndm:s
of the fwo conf.ned in the jail of this ciiy are
Matthew Magotnlcr and iVillh'.m Denny
si School-mafler, living in said (own/lift,
was.also rolled of 7 dollars, by an vniaiwti
■ highway-man, in the evening of some day lajl
weekr The circumfiance attending this rob
bery were savage and horrid. The fhaol-maf
ter was overtaken on the high road by a
lings Jlranger, who fell into a friendlytoHverfa
ticn with him, but took-an opportunity when
the unfufpectiv.g f'ffcrcr was off his guard, to
cut his throat from ear to ear, in order more ft
curely to commit the theft. The wound, it is
hoped, is not mortal. h culprit has Ijot yet
ben detected.
r. v 1
rr- , jjv/ .•{ f ;
HARRIS BURGH* Ootpner, i 3.
ELECT. /'8 A'.
The whole mirnber t f votes, for this coun
ty at the late eleftion, were 2,425.
Of which, for AlTemLily,
William M'Clay, had '7^4
David Kratife 1C62
Samuel Ainfworth 1572
Who are elefted.
Christian Ley 814
Conrad Bombach 518
Ulrcy Weltmer 504
Wolferfberger 258
Cornelius Cox 170
For Sheriff.
Henry Orth 1318
Anthony Kelker 792
The county of Cumberland have elefted
Samuel Poftlethwaite, Senator ; Messrs.
Whitehill, Kennedy and Powers for the As
sembly.
For Northumberland County.
Samuel and Simoa Srtydtr—Af
fembly. *
For -Lycoming County.
William White—Affeuibly.,
For Huntingdon* County.
Mr- Marfhall—AfTcmbly. '*.- .
—aairm-jgtgnTiKateM; mm»
Xfje
PHILADELPHIA,
THURSDAY
CITY HOSPITAL.
From 25th to 26th Oft. in the morning.
Discharged since last Report.
Elfey Brady, admitted 29th ult.
Died fincc last Report.
Jacob Sides, (Black) admitted 23d.
Remaining last Report 29
Admitted since, NONE.
Discharged, 1
Died, 1 2
Remain inHofpital, { Convalescentst 4 J 2?
Interred in City Hospital burying ground
since last report :
From the city and suburbs, I
From the city hospital, 1
Total ~ 2
CO MMVNICA riOK.
The miserable departure of.the French
from that humanity wjiicfe has constituted
the distinguishing honor of the moderu
of nations, however execrated by all good
men, is considered by themselves as an eltua
lion of their charaQcr.
%* A Country Subscriber in our
next.
GAZETTE IMRJNE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRJFED.
Ship Lavinia,Brown, Liverpool, via Norfolk.
Niger, Thouars, P. au Prinee.
Brig Two Brothers, Stoddard, N. Provi.
Sch. Hope, Parfojs, Goiiaives.
Miranda," Dill, Jamaica.
Helena Plumftead, Van Duym, Gonai.
Brig Amiable Adele, Smith, from St. Tho
mai, in 20 days. _
Capt. Cotter, of the Lovely Lass, in 18
days from Cape Francois, left at'that place
the following veflels belonging to this port:
Brig Dispatch, Bioren, to fail in 4 days.
Schr. Kitty, Green, 3
Boston, Clark, 5
Amy, Cufhing, 3
Eagle, Wells, 12
Hopewell, Clark, 20
Schr. Betsey, Shoemaker, arrived from
hence 28th Sept.
Wilmington, 03. 29.
ARRIVALS.
Oft. 21 —Ship Old Tom, , from
Londonderry, with 320 passengers.
Ship America, Shallcrofs, Cape Nichola
Mole—Salt and rum.
Snow Sarah, Potter, St. John's (New-
Brunfwick) —Plaifter of Paris.
Schooner Landlady, Foster, Halifax—
Fill) and oil.
New York, October 25.
ARRIVED. DAYI
Snow Pallas, Wyeth, Dublin 62
Schr. Fortitude, Taylor, Richmond 12
Fanny BridgerJ Dunn, Philad. 6
Weymouth, —; , Baltimore 1,6
Capt. Wyeth, Aug. 31, spoke the brig
Grace, from Philadelphia to Amsterdam, in
lat. 50.
Sept. 13, spoke the brig Anri, : from Phi
ladelphia to Hamburg, in lat.' 39.
31, Spoke ship Elizabeth; frpjpi Havre
to Philadelphia, out 56 days. lat. 43,
long. 43.
26, Spoke ship Pollyof Charleston, bound
to Bilhoa, lat. 43, long. 48.
Same d£y, spoke the Jofiah Collins, from
New-York for Liverpool—fame latitude.
Also spoke the ship Liberty of Alexan
dria, 11 days from Salem bound to Rotter
dam. >
The Pallas put into an English port,
where a passenger saw the arrival of the
Draper at Watcrfb d in 30 d.r/3 from tins
I port. She had not besn captured as re
pcrted.-
NOSFOtIt, OCTOBER 16.
, Ship Martin, Varcells, London
1 Brig Delight, Fowler, Cnp'-N. Molt
Marie, Hoi man, Cape Francois
Fanny and Betsey, Shbck ock, Jamaica,
Eliza, M'Conntl, Liverpool
■ Sch'r Cholis Anh, Fitzhugh, Antigua
John, Woodward, Cape N. "7>lule'
Sloop Dispatch, Archer,\St. Bartholomews
1 Dule of Clarer.ee, Williams, Berbice
7 eflerday arrived in Hampton Redds, the
f-h-joner Adeline, captanStainley, 16 day 's from
Connives, bound to Baltimore. By this v;ff:l
we learn that the brig Abigail, captain Shirley,
from Norfolk bound to Jamaica, is captured
by the French, andfent into St. Jago de Cuba ;
the /loop Thomas and Sally, also of this port, is
taken and carried into Gonaives. We farther
learn, that the Medtfe and Insurgent frigates,
under Commodore Barney, arrived at Ptrt-dsr
Paix on the or September. Capt.
Eldridge, of theJlodp George of this port f ta
ken and condemned at G waives )came paJTer.-er
in the Adeline.
Savannah, OS. 6.
Tcjlerday arrived, ship Diana, rapt. Billon,
from Liverpool, from whence fee failed the 14 th
0/ June ; and on the 2 ijl of Auguf}\ lat. 35.
30. long. 72. 50. was taken by L'Aiglc, a
French privateer capt. Marin, minting 16
guns, with 80 men, who took out the mate and
% feamcn, leaving the captain,, Mr. Johnson,
a pajfenger, and 2 fcamen in the ship ; put a
pvze mailer and 1 o men on hoard, and ordered
her for Porto Rico. On th 7 Bth September, lat.
27. long. 59- saw ajhip to leeward, which
cams up, and proved to be the Portfmovlh, of
Phdadelphia, capt. Monk, having the mate and
five fcamen of the Diana, who were put on
board by the privateer ; on knowing the Diana,
they requejled capt. Monk to put them on board,
but cowing aloug.fide, the print majler and
Frcncjjjeamen an board the Diana being much
alarmed, capt. Bolton took the advantage of
their confufion, and retook command of his flip,
put, \of the pirates on board the Portj.'mouth,
fecurea the others. 1
On the 19 th of September, spoke the ship Mol
ly, capt Toby, a letter of Marque of 20 guns
anH $0 men, from Kingjlon, bound and belong
ing to Liverpool, and put 4 of the remaining
pirates on board. On the 28th September, lat. j
31, 16. long. 80. 30. wejl,inti heavy gale of
wind, saw the ship Liefdy, from Hamburgh,
bound to Charleflon, on her beam ends, who
threw out a ftgnal of dijlrefs. Captain Bolton
bore down and came along fide found the cap
tain and crew on the wreck, sent his boat and
took them all on board, at the risk of the lives of
those who went to their ajfiflance. He Jlayed
by the wreck some time, and, finding nothing
could befaved, left her.
Capt. Bolton brought with him 3of thspi
rates, whom he'made ajjill in working his fbip.
Capt- Bolton feels himfelf much indebted to
captain Monk, of the Portsmouth, and captain
Toby of the Molly, who generoujly supplied
him with every necessary he flood in need of.
From the Farmer's Weekly MuseuVi.
, INAUGURAL DISSERTATION
on the bilious malignant fever ;—|
read at a public examination, before the Re f.
Joseph Willard, S. T. D. L. L. D.
president ; by , Samuel Broitn, A. M.—
Publijhed Augvfl, 1797., Manning cS* Lor
ing, Bojlon.
" The putrirl lteains of fame-corroding venom,
'n conmlcfj pores, o'er a'i the pervious lkin
ImMbV, soon poison the balfimic blood,
And rn>ife tbr heart to ev -ry fever's rap'. "
THE author commences his dissertation
by observing that, " in Augjift 1796, the
town of Boftoa was vilited by a contagious
diftafe of unusual malignancy, the circum
ftanccs and marks of which were fuel} as
threatened great calamity ; arid the alarm
spread, and became almost universal. This
still increased ; on that in many
of its symptoms it bore great refevnblance
to the fever which had so recently raged at
Philadelphia and New-York."
The author then mentions 'what diseases
were moll prevalent previous to and at the
commencement of this fever; but unfortn
nately has given us no information of the state
of the atmosphere ; whether it was pure and
wholesome, containing much oxygene ; or
hot and depressing to the ftrcngth, contain
ing much azote. Though in a fubfeqiwnt
part of the work he observes, " which,
therefore, of the above principles (oxygene
or azote) has the greatest share in the pTo
duftion of diseases, will not be decided, un
til some flandard, or gafmetre, shall be in
vented, by which it can be known what is
the ptculiar state of the atmosphere when
they prevail.
Some observations on poisons follow,
which might have b?en omitted, as they con
j tain nothing new ; and he candidly confeffes
| that most of tbem " have long been ac
knowledged by the best mfdical writers."
The description of the fever is brief, but
fuffieiently charafterillic, to distinguish it,
and with that accuracy which mark but
few.
Proximate caufe —he observes, is morbid
effluvia, firft lodged in the saliva ; thence
conveyed and lodged in the stomach and in
teftiries ; here, either perverting or totally
destroying the d'igellive powers of these
cera, thereby a putrid and highly corrosive
mass is generated inftea'd of a mild and bland
substance to give nourlfhment to animal life.
The fiu-rounding blood veflels feel the change
and are affefted ; the whole fy(lem is cate
nated with these irregular mottoes, when :
lite, unable to withstand so irregular an at
tack, yields itfelf a viftim. j
That the disease makes its approach by
the saliva, he thinks is evident, from per- J
sons complaining of tailing the putrid exha- '
lations a long time after being nigh an in- ;
ft-fted fubjeft. A moll elegant sentence !
closes these observations. " The alimentary
-canal may be called the storehouse of conta
gion. Here, like the fkilful but cautious
enemy, it commences Its operations by pro
greffivdy invading I He- wAker parts unlit
t.te inncrmoft fortress of lifc are endanger
ed." \ °
The remnle cattf: —Debility.
Treat*!!#, or method of cur; With unre
mitted diligence the Boston praaitiWrs
have followed our jiilli / celebrated prqfq.jur,
L-r. ivij/h, and have again experienced the
happy e,r;ft of h:s judicious ]>refcription,
J-* p and calomel. Bleeding was not here
attended with as much success as at Phila-
UL-1./ ra, " I believe because t'ne fever was
iltfi in.l unmntory."
Whether the minima, or- contagious matter
of the BILIOUS MALIGNANT* FEVISR., i?
an imported or home production ?
I he author, after combating a Utile \vi:h
profeffi.r Mitch ill and Dr. Bay, both of New
\ ork, 'on the produ&ion and introdu&ion
of miaftna, concludes it to be a homespun
dileafe, and we are not indebted to India
nor 'any foreign port for this commodity.
From the many quotations it inay be seen
that the author's stile is energetic, his.deduc- •
tions welt drawn, and his treatment, that
which has proved mod efficacious in those
parts of the United States and Weft-Indies
where this tyrannic fever has ere&ed its
standard of death. It may be Jldcd a work
of merit and worthy a perufah*
vVALPOLE, (N. Hi) O&ober 16.
The public review, by regiments, of the
troops, compofmg the fifth brigade of the
New H?.mpfh : re militia, was completed last
Tnur.day at Qlciremont. We are happy to
learn, that the martial fpirlts of the fol-'
diery, by foreign indignities, aided
by the a£Hve exertions of brigadier general
Allen, and encouraged in fevcral in-'hrices
by the prefencc of the major genera], ex
hibited in turn a very pleasing specimen of
military improvement. This brigade now
furnilhes seven troops of cavalry and twelve
companies of light all completely
officered, equipped ar.d uniformed; and
capable, with scarcely an exception, of per
lorming the extrcife and evolutions of the
camp with reputable exacincfs. It is not
invidious to remark, that the display of
military difeipline of the twelfth regiment,
Mnder the command of col. Gardner, would
not have disgraced a corps of organized've
terans.
Gentlemen paflengers in the latest reffels
from London, report most favourably con
cerning the polity, manufaftures, arts and
literature of England. An. amiable mo.
narch, a loyal people, a flourifhing com
merce, an admirable conftltution, all, all
give the lie to those fools, or those knaves,
who pronounce Britain in her decadence.
She writes vici on her shields, and her in
vincible fleets sweep every French and Sp3-
nifli cobweb from the ocean.
It is curious to compare the nautical
journals of French and British marine be
haviour.—When one of our Vessels is en
countered by his Britannic majesty's frigates
or merchantmen, the American captain inva
riably records in his log-book that he was po
litely treated. But the courteous, thrgallant,
the profeffing, the plausible Frenchman, our
good friend, our ally, enters the cabin sword
in hand ; breaks the chest and the loeker,
whips the sailor, aflaffinates the captain, and
.conveys the cargo to Viftor Hugues, with
an air perfectly polite and Parilian. Ameri
cans, be not deceived. Your ancestors, in
1755» knew the nature of those
those who growl and chatter in
France. They were eileemed rightly thrn;
and in all the wonderful revolutions of ths
republick the national character is uniform.
Against. a mad againft
five gimcrack kings, against the miMiftrous
unatural domination of the populace, against
a cut-throat army, against apostate priests
let 113 build a Chinese wall, and know France
only as a corner in the map of Europe
Miserable is an intimacy'with a people, who
live " without God in the world,", who tip
the wink in murder, who eradicate the fa
cial charities, who give lax reins to ter
ror, and who labour to disturb the brightest
hopes, the fondcfl wiihes of the hump
heart. 1, <» i"i m
"POST' OFFICE.
Philadelphia, oßaler 26, 1797.
THE Poft-Office will be removed t»
No. 34, South Front Street, on Saturday
the 28th inft. at half past 12 o'clock, p. m.
and on Monday, the 30th, the letter carri
ers will begin to deliver as usual.
Si. Croix Sugar Iff Rum,
For Sale by
JOHN NIXON & Co.
i~. djw.
From Marfeijies.
THE CARGO
Of the SweSifh barque v"js Adolphus,from
M^rfeittes,"cbrilifting of the followinff'atticles,
13 (lifcjierging at Mr. Latimer's wharf, and far
faie by the fubferibers
BR A NrXY, well flavored, of 2, 3 & 4th proof
Claret, in hogiheads . -
Initio, in cases
Frontigniac Wine, of 30 bottles
Olive Oil, of a feperior quality, in balkets of i
ind xa bottles ■
Caotrs-
Olive* *—
I Almonds
[ Dry Verdigreife
| Wri'.ing P*' ,
(Siik) of 28, 3c and 3a inches
1 afteties
Long and fliort white Kid Gloves for Women
Si<k Stockings
Hanitkerchfefii, in imitation of Madrafs •
Artificial Flowers and Garlands
Oftrjth Feathers
Ribbons
Perfumerv
Scented Hair-Powder arid Pomatum
Manna in forts
Cream Tartar.
RENTAMIN MORGAN &
-ROBERT ANDREWS.
September 27. eotf
The Hea 11h-Office~~~
. 13 removed to the City-Hall, ar.d >< Vept orcn
night and d:y, where persons having biifin'fV y
apply- W.m. ALLEN,/Vaith-GCicer.
4- d-fImported in tlie/hipManchester,
Benjamin Shewell, Mailer,
From Bounii aux, md fttf sale- liv the fubilriber,
No. U Walnut fit-ret.
. Brandy
Irish market.claret in cases Entitled to
Mi'c!oc wine, in do. Drawback.
S.mterue, do. do.
Thomas Murgatrsyd.
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter calks
Rota do. do.
Biinento rn bags
4000 biidu'is Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stf.
To be fold at Public Vendue,
Totle high eft bidder, »t tiie hotifc of Mr.
William Evans, the sign of flie, Indian
Qveen, in the city of Baltimore, on the 25th
day of Oiilober next, at 11 o'clock, A. M
About seven tlioufand acres of land,
the props; ty of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
lj. r between Reifter's-town and VVelbninfter,
. qonimonly called JLi;t!e Winchester, (tiie turn
pike road runs through a eonfidarable part of
tliefe lam's) the traft begina abo»t 17 milqs
from lialtimort, within a fW hundred yards
of fiid KeilierVtown, and extends to the dis
tance cf j'v-ut twenty-three miles from Balti
more, and ]!es on the main falls of Patapfico
river, from three to four miles thereon. Will
be fold of one hundred and fifty to i
three hundred acre. There is a large propor- •
ties of meadow and \vo9d land on each trail,'
lonic of them highly improved, with excellent
buddings and finc^grrfs.
A L so
A tra£l of seven hundred acres of
land, called Clover Farms, within five miles of
llladtnfliurg, efieemed very gocd for Grass.
Richard Ponfonby.of Bladenfburgh, will (hew
this land t6 any person inclined to purchase.
' ALSO,
A traft of land &f about three hun
dred and thirty aires, within about two lgiles
and a half o L the President's hOuse in the fede
ral City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fine
high profpeft, from which may be Icen the
ciry of Washington, Bladenfburgh, Alexanflria
and a part of George-lown, and many miles
down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard Por.fon*
by, of Bladenftmrg, will alio flsew this land.
A liberal credit will be given for the greafeft
part of the purchase money, /he terms will
be made known on the day of sale.
May 3 ' w-jm
Juit.R eceived,
Frbni Batavia (via Providence)
* few Boits of Spices, confuting of
'Nutmegs, Clovesand Mace 1
For sale liy
H ILLINGS, C 3* FRANCIS, $
Pcnn street.
May jo dtf
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. j 19, Higb-Strett.
GEORGE DAVIS,
BEING buf.ed for fomc time pad in prepara
tions for removing into his prafent house, has
been under the necellityof pollpi/ninguntil this day
informiag the gentlemen of the Oar generally thro'
the United States, that his fpriiig importation of
law books is now arranged and ready for lale, on
termsthat he trulls will entitle him to the likepre
freence he has experienced for fcveral years past.
Catalogues, combining the mod varied collec
tion ever imported i/ito tiiis country, are printed
and will be delivered Oh applieiition.
June 27. law 6w
City Comm jfioners' Office,
June 11, 1797.
IN pursuance of an ordinance from the fele<s> '
and common councils, pafl'ed the »a«f day of
May lafV, appointing the city cMiimifliotiers,
and prrfcribing their duties, feflion 9th,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
That the city is divided into five diftrifls,
each to be under the fuperintendance of one of
the city commifiioners, whoistobe individually
relponfibte for the cleanliness of the fame, and
are as follow.
Driftriil No. 1. From the south fide of Ce
dar-street, to the north fide of Spruce-flreet, tm
rthe fuperißtendence of Nathan Boys,
j. From the north fide of Spruce-street, to
thenorth ftijtof Walnut-flreet,under the super
intendence of Hugh Roberts.
3. From the north fide of Walnut to the south
fide of H'gh-flreef, under the fuperintendenee of
Joseph Claypoole.
4. From the north fide of High-street, to the
nerth fidr of Mulberry street, under the fuper
intendenee of Willia:m Moulder.
5. From the north fide of Mulberry-street to
the north fide of Vine-flfeet, under ihe super- 1
intendence of Nicholas Hicks.
Thecleaningof Htgh-ftreet to be in ccr™*on. 1
£j" A stated meeting of the city comraifiion
ers is held at the Old Court House, in High- '•
street, every Tuesday evening at s o'clock.
July 14■ eoim
Stands for Draymen,
In purjuar.ee of an Ordinance from tbeSeleH and-
Common Counc.ls,bearing date the 11 d day of
April, '797. providing far the appointment of
City Comm'jJjioners, (Sc. Seft. the lsth.
r I~ , HE following places are fixed upon by the
A said City Commissioners for Stands for
Draymen and their Horses.
In Vine-flreet, eastward of Front-street, on
both fides.
SalTafras, High,Chefnut and Walnut-fttreets,
eastward of Front-street, on the no/th fide only.
Mulberry-street, south fide from "Front to
Third-flraet.
Front-ftreat, east fide from Vine-street to
Elfrith's alley.
Front-street, from opposite to Black Harfe al-
Hamilton's stores, east fide'.
weft fide from the north end of
'YVatef^'^j vitrei'} stores to Pine-street.
EtomjW so, »{rom Pine to Ce-Jar-ftreet, well
Penn-ftreei.
(i'de. -*ftaf Front-street.
..n.
between W.lniu-ttreet and ihe j
flag (tone crossings, east fide, oppolite George ,
-street, between SalTifras and Vine .
ftr F?fth-ftre ft t 't f f east fide from Chefnut to Mul-
S^affa'fra3-ftreet, from Third to Fourth-street,
ea No d dray or horse to stand within tenfert of
"iVZ'bs FOR HACKNEY COACHES
Piue-ftreet, north fide from l ourth to Fifth
"'"ifth-ftreeti, between Chefcut and Walnut
ar Branch-street, north fide, between Third and
Fourth streets. ' mw& fxm
July 14-
A Literary Treat.
Jttjt pubiijbedy handfomsly printed on wriihg
p:iper y price I dollar,
A new edition of that popular and entertaining
work, entitled
rHE FORESTERS, an American Tale ; bnng
a f quel to the hiflory of John Bull, the Clo
thier—ln afc/iesof Utters to a friend, with the ad
dition of two letters, alluding to recent political
iraitfo&ionsin America.
I'h« ioilowing extrad from th? Clavis Alle<yonca,
shews the prhicrpal charaders that are introduced:
John BulL, the Kingdom of England
Hi-. Mother, the Church of England
His Wife, the Parliament
HisSirtct Peg, the Church of Scotland
His Brother Patrick, Ireland
Lewis, the Kingdom of France
H.is Miilrefs, the Old Constitution
His a«?w Wife, the National RcprefenUtion
Lord Strut, the Kingdom of Spain
Nicholas Frog, the "Dutch Republic
The Franks, the French Republic
The Foresters, the United States of America
Robert Lumber, New-Hampshire,
John Codline, Maflachufctts
Humphrey Plowshare,
R-oger Carrier, Rhode Ifiand
Peter Bull Frog, New-York
Julius Caesar, New-Jersey
William Broadbrim, Pennsylvania
Caflimar, Delaware
Walter Pipe wood, Virginia
Hh Grandson, George WaQiington
Peter Pitch, North Carolina
Charles Indigo, Soutk Carolina
George T>«!ly, Georgia
Ethan Greenwood, Vermont
Hunter Longknife. Kentucky
Black Cattle, Negro Slave*
Rats, Speculators
Mother Carey's Chickens, Jacobins
$3" This popular and entertainfngfatiricalhifta
ry of America is attributed to the Rev. Dr. Bel
knap. It hasagr<wvt iharc of originality and a
bmmds with genuine humour. It is continued
down to the present time, and chara&erifea those
late political tranfa<slions vvbiek have caused so
much u»eafinefs in America.
Bold by H. and P. RICE, BookXeller, No. 16, I
South Second Street, and No. 50, Marke* street.
June 26. §
LAW BOOKS,
Latest London and Dublin Editions.
H. & P. RICE, Booksellers,
No. 16, South Second, and No. 50, Market street,
HAVE just received by the lite arrivals from
London and Dublin, their fpricg importa
tion, confiding ef a variety of the latest and most
approved l aw Books, which, adde4 to those alrea
dy on hand, forms the most extensive collection ev
er offered for sale in this country. Thejrtheiefore
beg leave to notitt, that from the nature of their
connedirns in Dublin, they are enabled t» felllrUh
(as they have hitherto douat the very
lOWest prices. The following are among the latest
publications.
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, i
Peake's Cases at Nisi Prius ; Ridgeway's Reports
in the time of Lord Hardwick* ; Hoyer's ProAers
Practice i« the Ecclesiastical Courts; Barton's
Trtatife on a Suit in Equity; Tidd's Pra&ice of
the €ourt of King's Bench in Personal A&ions, a
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; CruiTe
on Ufej modorn Reports, it vols. London edi
tion.
_ H. and P. Rice srpeift t« receive by the firft ar
rival from New-Vork the 6th vol. complete of
Durnford and East's Reports, the impart of Gil
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and ajumber of
new publications.
June 16.
Ihe History of Pennsylvania,
By ROBERT PROUD,
IS now in the press, and will he publiftied,
with all convenient expedition, by ZkCHA
riah I'oulson, jun, No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where lubfcriptions will continue
to he rcceivedj and at the Philadelphia Library,
•according to the printed proposals, until the
work is ready for tht fubferibers.
July 18. aawtf
The Partner/hip,
UNDER the firm of FREEMAN W Company,
is difib.ved by mutual cohfent. All persons
having any demands against the said House are de
sired to render the fame to T. B. Freeman ; and
those indebted to the House are desired to make pay
ment to him^—By whom business will in future be
carried on,at his Store, No. 39, South Front-street.
August 7 eod*w
Richard and James Potter
HAVE removed their Counting House to No.
45, South Fifth-ftrcet.
August z. w&f6t
Lancafler, Harrijburgh Carli/le,
Shippenfburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
THE public are requcfted to take notice, that
the partnerfllip which has for fomelime fub
fiiled betweoa Mithias Slough of Lancaster, and
William Geer, is now diiTolved: but, not as M. \
Slough infinuatesto the public without jpft cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fub
je<S from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 19th
December lall. a recital of which is not now deem
ed necelTary. Auy gentleman who wilhes to be
more c'ircumftantially infurmed of the merits of
this business, by applying to W. Geer may have
the perusal »f M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfedly juftifiable in attaching him
felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage «inveyiiice from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
Now from the liberal and generous support the
public were pleased to confer on the firft effort in
this business, VFilliatn Geer, in conjunction with
Messrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention anddifpatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can poifibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
render the paflage fafe and commodious, inform
those wnu wilb to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrilburg,
Carlille and Shippenlburg. The fare as hitherto
eftablilhed.
O*" further accommodation ol the public,
a will start every Wednesday from the house
of Samuel Elder, in Harrilburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thurlday,
and' return from thcoce and arrive at Harnfburg
every Saturday, so that paiFengere destined for
Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed 00 Mon-
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancafter,Jan. 27>'1797-
N. B. This Line of Stages starts from ths
house of William Fcrruc, in Lancaster, on every
Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
ceeding to the westward; and from tbe house of
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harnfburg every Wednes
day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick" Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns
from thence on every Thursday : performing the
fame routinff daily at in its lour fcrcm Phiiadel
j phia. / . n> wf
Advcrtifeinent.
On the loth of November next in AL'xcndrii
(Urng court day), will be exposed for fje one
or more covering Jacks., and several young
one? of different age* and f>/es ; all dcfcended
from Royal Gift (an imported Jack from Spain,
upwards of (5 hands high) out of imported
Jinnies fp>m Malta, full 14 hands high.
The terms of fate (or if not fold, of letting
them tir one or more seasons to coVer) will
then be made kr.own : the payments may he
nudeealy to the purchafcr, bond and fecnrity
being given for 'he amount, with ihtcreft.
At the fame time and place, sundry
Horfrsand Mares will be offered for sale. The
latter having been to the Jacks, are probably
with foal.
JAMES ANDERSON, Manager.
ourttiV'et'fion, ?cth J
September, 1797. ) iaw4w
Infurariee Company of the State
of Pennsylvania.
r PHR Offie will be: kept until further notice at
1. the School House in Germantown. The
Company lliil retain the room in Chefnut, above
•Seventh street, where a pier/on will attend to re
ceive and give answers to applications, every day
from 10 until I o'clock. !
Sent Atiizwtf
Thomas Armat and Son,
Of PHILADELPHIA,
INFORM their cu Homers asd'.he public, they
have removed a part of their merchandize to
Wilmington : Also, they have their (lore open in
the city. At either place their friends can be sup
plied, and their orders carefully attended to
By the Cumberland, from Hull, they have re
ceived a handsome afiVirtment of articles, suitable
to the approaching season ; and expedt to add to it
by other fall (hips.
Should the sickness prevail in the central of
the city, that branch of their buGncfs will be re»
moved to Gcrmatwown.
£s* The communication by poll i» open and re
gular as (tfual.
Sept. 18. thtf
TO BE SOLD VERT CHEApI
A Light W4GGQN almost new, with a frame—
and a pair of harness (English collars) has never
been Ufcd—price 90 Dolls.
A.Kdrte 16 hands high, seven years eld—and a
new «hair*.wifh, a falling top and harness— 310.
Enquire No. 331, Market-street
diw
For sale or to be let on ground
rent,
Apaluable Lofof Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-eift corner cf Wal
nut and Filth streets, fronting the State-
House square. This lot is fifty-one feet front
on \Valnut street, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street j there are at
present two small two story brick houses, and a
number of small tenementi thereon.
Alfa, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. situate on
Water-street, between Mulberry and Saflafras
streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east- j
ward ninety-five sett, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
ave the convenionce of a public alley adjoining
On the north' fide, artd are a very desirable situa
tion foi" a merchant, flour fatfor,or others who
may have occasion for storage of goods. This
property will be fold on very reasonable twms
for calh. For further information apply to the
printer.
July 31. m&wtf
TO BE SOL" D,
And given immediately,
AI.AROj{ two story brick House, handsomely
situated in Princeton, There are four rooms
and a large entry on eacH" floor, and five rooms in
the garret, a range of back buildings jl feet in
length, and a piazza of 57 feet. There is a pump
in the yard, an excelleut kitchen garden, at the
farther end of which are a carriage house and two
(tables, one of which is new, 44 feet long, with
flails in the two {tables for 17 horses. The heal
thiness and pleasantness ot its situation, and the
number of genteel and agreeable families in and
near the town, render it a desirable retreeat for a
gentleman from the city. The commodioufnefs of
the house, its central poiition, and the largeneifs of
the flables, make it',every way fuitablefora tavern,for
which it has always been confiderd as a capitll
{land. Inquire on the premifas, of
ISAAC SNOWDEN.
Princeton, Ang. 25. ay—dtwzasrtf
City of VValhington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For tbi Improvement of the Federal City.
, A magnificent dwelling-iioufe ao.ooodolUrs,
& calb 30,000, are 50,00.
1 ditto 15,p00 & caOt 15,000 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 & calh 15,000 30,000
I ditto 10,000 & calh 10,000 ao,ooo
1 ditto 5,000 & calh 5,000 10,000
t ditto 5,000 & calh j,ooo i 0,300
1 calk prize of 10,000
1 1 do. 5,000 each,are « «0,000
I© do. 1,000 - - 10,00 C
ao do. - - 10,000
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
aoo do. 50 10,000
400 do. 35 - - 10,000
1,600 do. ao - ao.ooo
15*000 do. 10 - 158,000
16,739 Prizes.
33,161 Blanks.
50,000 Tickett, at Eight Bollars, 400,006
N. B. To favour those who may take a quan
tity of Tickets the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the l» ST drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
bat on* :
And approvod notes, fecuping payment in either
money or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received for any number not lefsthan 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen «f
the private buildings to be erciled in the City of
Walhington—Two beautiful defies are already
leleiled for the entire fronU on two of the public
squares; from these drawings it ispropofed toereCl
two centre and "qui: corner buildings,as foonaspof
fible after this lottety isfold, and to convey them,
when comylotT, tQ the fortunate adventurtrs, in
the manner defcribetl in the scheme for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduction of five per cent, will
be made to defray the neceflary expenses of print
ing, &c. and the furphis will be made a part of
the fund Intended for the National University, to
be ereded within the city of Walhington.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of tlx
Prizes, are held by the President and two DireA
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount of the lottery.
SAMUEL BLODGRT.
„§„ Tickets may be had at the Bank ol Colum
bia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Feter
Gilman, Boston : of Joliiv Hopkins, Richmond ;
of Richard V.Vlls, Cooper's Ferry.
mwf
TKU Day Published, ,
Aid to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, sorrier of
Second and Chefnut streets,
Price yiflj of a DoHar,
Observations on certain Documents
Contained i* N*o. V and VI of
" The Hillary of the United States for
the year 1796," >
In which thfe enAfcrtE or speculation ajrainft
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secretary of the Treasury, is FULLY
REFUTED.
WRITTEN RT HIMSELF,
This publication preients a concile statement
cf the hafe means pradlifed by the Jacobins of the
United States to asperse the charadefs of thofo
pi»rf'ons who arc coniidi red as hofKle to their difor-
fcli-rmes. It also contains the cor
refpohdence between Mr. Hamilton and Meflrs.
Monroe, Muhlenburgh und Venab'e, on the fub
je<ft of the documents afore.faid,and a of let
ters from James Reynolds and fin wife to Mr. Ha
milton, proving beyond the poilibility of a cfriibt,
that the connexion between him and Reynolds,
was the result of a daring eorifpiraay o« the part
of the latter and his aflociates to extort money.
JwT A difeount of one third from the retail price
will be made in favor ot wholefaie pufchafcrs, for
cas<i. ©rdcrsto beaddreffed to Mr Yowno.
AwtuH 25.
No. 188.
Diflrifl of Pennsylvania, to tuii :
(l. s.) U E ,r REMEMBERED, that on the.
X 3 twenty sixth day of July, in the twen
ty second year of the independence of the United
States of America, John Fenno, of the faiddif
triil, hath deposited in this office the title of a book,
the right whereof lie claims as proprietor, in the
wordi following, to wit :
'• Ohfervatious on certain documents contained
" in No. V. and VI. of " The History of the Uni
t" ed States for the year 1796," in which th» charge
" of speculation, against Alexander Hamilton, late
" Secretary of the Treasury, is fully refuted—
" Written bvhimfelf "
In conformity to (he a<S of the Congress of the
Ueited Statei, entituled, " An for tho encour
agement of learning, by fccuring the copies of
maps, charts and books to th? authors anrf propri
etors of such copies, dur«g h« times therein men
tioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk 9/ tbg Dijlrift of Pennfyli>ania.
July 27. W4W
The Inhabitants of the Diftrid
of Southwark,
/J RE informed that a Coachee is provided, to bf
il kept at the Constables' oflice, the north east
corner of Front and Almond streets, where the
friends of those sick persons who desire to be re
moved *0 the City Ilofyital, are rcqueftcd to make
application—Alio, a Hearse will be kept in rcadi
nels for the removal of the dead.
JONATHAN PENROSE.
N. B.— The Poor, who wish to remove to the
Tents on Schuylkill, may be furnifced with orders
by applying as above. Au%. 19
William Blackburn,
LOTTERT and BROKER'S 6FFIC&
No. 64 south Sccond-Rreet. ,
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 11, which
commenced drawirig the 19th May, FOR
SALE. The price of tickets will rife in propor
tion as the drawing advances, particularly on *c
count of the five firft drawn tickets, prizes of
four thousand dollars each, on the last day of
drawing.
Check Books kept for examination and register
ing, in the Canal, No. 1, City of Waihingtou, No.
a, and Paterfon Lotteries.
Also, tickets forfalc in the Schuylkill bridge and
Perkiomen Brjdge lotteries, which will begin
drawing in the course ef the fwnmer.
The business of a Broker in all kinds of Stack,
Bills, Notes, Lands, &c- Sic. tranfaded with the
utraoft attention.
June a tu&f
Erfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No 40 South Second street,
> [Price 31 Cents]'
A View of the Causes and Consequen
ces of the present War with Franca.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskine.
May 15 J
~S TATE TRIALS.
Sold b W.Youlic, Bookfcller, No. s*, South S*-
cond-llreet,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
CONtaining the impeachment, trial, and acquit
al <jf FrancisHopkinfen, Judge of the Court of
Admiralty, and John Nicholfon, Comptroller Gen
eral—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, j
dollars.
W. Youns has for sale, a general afiortment of
Books. Also, Stationary, retail and by the pack
ego, well aflorteJ.and entitled to the drawback if
axpwted. ■ July 7 —*
For Sale,
That •nftllinown place, called VANDsgßirr's
rim y,
ON Ncfhiminy creek, 18 miles from Phi
ladelphia, on the New York post road,
containing 74 acres and 94 percbes. Upon the
p.emifes are a large two ltory stone house occu
pied as a tvern, and a good one story stone kit
chen, a large frame liable with a gDod threlhinj;
floor, and iome out buildings—also a well of
good water, and an excellent ice Houie. On
this place is a molt elegant situation fora gentle
min's feat, commanding.a view of the Nefham
iny to its jun<9ion wiih the Delawa»e, and thence
across to the Jcrfey (hore. ft has the privilege
of one half the tollfeceived from the bridge.
For terms apply to the SoWcribcr,
MORDECAJ LEWIS.
\'»v 14. 3tawtf.
COLUMBIA HOUSE ,
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBKIDGE with m«ch pleas
ure and refpeft, returns her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal eacouragcroeat
(he has received during four years refiden«e ia
Philadelphia ; and assures her friendß ami the
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, Ihe has made a luperior arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars. —Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Gtoombridge and matters excelling ia their
refpeflive profeffions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797. simfef
The situation is perfe«sUy healthy and made
more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
of grnund adjoining the honle.
fujl Published,
And to be had of Messrs. Dobfon, Campbeil.Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal Booksellers in tV
city .price one dollar, twinty-fivc cents, ill boards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, m. d.
June 2Q, *6t
Rofs &f Simfon,
\IAVE FOR SALE
f Hogftieads,
Excellent Coffee in < Tierces, and
(. Barrel?.
A small parcel of nice cocoa in hags
v few Jamaica spirits, fourth proof
Superior Teneriffee wine, old an ' in Madeira pipe*
An invoice of jewellery and hosiery to be fold by
the package
A few hampers ol bed cheefe.
T"ly *7- dtf.
The Subscriber has for Sale,
A large afiortment of India Muslins,
coarse and fine
India Calicoes
, Sooty Romalls
B'ue Cloths and Checks
Bandanna Handkerchiefs
Bine red and Gilli Handkerchiefs
An invoice of Irish Linen* and Sheetings, well
aborted
A box of Diapers
Silk Umbrellas
Tv*o boxes of fine Spices, .aotaiaing Nutthegl,
Mace and Cloves
B'lack Pepper of firfl quality
East India Ginger
Java Sugar
A quantity of Madeira Wine
Ditto of Gin
Roll Brimstone *
Mordecai Lewis.
Ti. ( £fiwim
' ——— >■ ll .
Higgins' Specific-
FOR TUB
PREVENTION AND CURE OF.THE
YELLOW FEVER.
fince this disease niide such ravages in t*iis
-j city and New-York, the author has turned his
attention to itscaufes a«d cure.—Therefult of his
enquiries has convinced him that the reason why so
few persons recover from its attacks, are from its
not being well understood, and the confeqnent
wrong method taken to cure it. He is persuaded
that the excessive bleedigns and mercuric! reatmeist
of the Faculty i« highly injurious, and that the on
ly raiionalmode of treatment ii by thrufe of proper
acids. Convinced of this he offers his Specific as a
certain remedy, if used according to the dircftions.
To be had in bottles, at one dollar each, of tha
inventor Gee. Higgins, Cherry street, two doors a
bove Ninth street, (late manasar of Jackson and
Co's Medicine Warehouse, London); by J. Le
tlane,No. 2-6 ; IV. Grijftt,No. 177, T. Pearce. No.
41, South Third street, T. Stiff, No. JJ»New street,
near Vine street, and J■ Salee, No. 36, Race street..
Aug. 15. tu;h» 3t
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAsTand
CONSUMPTIONS.
Jttft rsceived, by Wm. Griffiths, No. i ? 7,South
Seeond-ftreet, a frefli supply of
Genuine Bal/am of Honey,
A Medicine invented by the late Sir John Hil?
(wh» knowledge as aßotanift procured him
the appellation of the Linnxus of Brita-inXand i*
fonfidered in England as a certain cure for the above
complaints; it is alio of lingular efficacy in the
Hooping Cough,
It may also be had retail of W. A. Stokes, No*
61, South Second-ftreft, and T. Stifi, Ss> Wew
ftreet, in bottles at 75 cents each.
WM. Griffiths having oljferved the happy eP
feft of the medicine, (several cases of cures hav
ing come within his own knowledge) and the great
demand for it has induced him to ordex a large
fwpply, a part of whicji.he has just received.
■A"2 u fl 3- iaw -jw
30 Dollars Reward.
RAN away on Saturday last, two indented Ser«
vants, Gifterd Dally, a mulano boy, about/7
years of age, a Aim light built aftjve f«llow, can
read and write,five feet seven or eight inches high,
has a heavy countenance; had oh a fuftian coatee
and trowfers, a high crowned hat, fine shoes ite.
Allan Hellons, a blank man, about 14 years ol
Age, fire feet fcven or eight inches high,a thick Set
clurify built fillnw, particularly about the breech;
had on a sailor's blue jacktt lined with fwanfeiu,
dark l'rriped vest, fuitian trowfers, high crowned
hat, coarse (hoes, fltc.; each of tfyem had several
shirts and several other cloathes with them. Thir
ty Dollars Will be paid for the runaways, or 15 dol
lars for each, and reafonahle charges, or delivering
them at No. 54, North Third-street.
The black fellow is about a year from Lewis
Town, in the County of Sussex, state of Dela
ware, and has taken the boy with him.
July ji- _ mtufrfjur ~
To be 30LD or RENTED,
AI-.ARGE 3 Story Brick House, on th<
South fule ef Filberi street, between
Eighth and Ninth, lately occupied at the Sur
veyor General's Office.
The Building is 36feet front and 35 feet d«p,
the lot 1 ic feet deep, with the privilege of a nine
feet wide Alley extending the whole length of
the lot, to a thirty feet wide Court for Carriage*,
to turn in. The House is not plattercd, and
may be turned either into one, or two dwelling
Houses. It is fuitabl? for a large Manufactory,
or would matt a good Tavern. Immediate
poflcflion will be given.
Apply to Ito. hi, Chefnut-Strtwt.
Aug. it. cod^t.
Musical bylrument Manufaftory,
Nth 167, Arch Street.
HARPBR, harpsichord,grand, portable grand,
Cd:-board, pier table .vnd I'quirc piano tone
mak;r from London, returns thanks to his friemh
and the public, for their liberal encouragement,
and hopes that by his assiduity and attention toc v
ery branch of his bAfiijcfs, to merit a continuance
of their favors. Piano fortes made on the newtfft
and most approved plans, with pedals, patent
swell, and French harp stop, wlneh heflatteis
himfelf will ut found on trial by unprejudiced
judges, to be equal if not superior t<) any import
ed, a»d twenty per cent cheaper. Any inllr»
ment purchased of him, if cot approved of it)
twelve months, he will exchange.
N. B. All kinds of Mvfical instruments made t
uned, and repaired with the greatcfi accuracy,
dispatch, and on the ri>ofl reasonable terms, lif
ready money only.
Second hand Piano Forte» takea in exchange.
May v-. Jtw.
Forty Dollars Reward.
RAN away from tha Aibfcriber on the fee
onddayof this inii. July, a Mulatto Man,
named Will Bowzer,' ahout forty years of age,
five feet seven or eigkt inches high, raiher
chunky made ; had on when he went away, a
drab colored cloth coat, flriped purple trowfers
and jacket. It is probable he will change his
cloathes, as he took a number with him. The
fanl fellow formerly belonged to Mr. Charles
Blake of this place; and it is expetfed he has
made tawards Jones's Neck, in the Delaware
State. —Any perfun apprehending the fcid fel
low, and securing him so that I can get him a.
gain, shall receive the above reward if take*
out of the county, and Twenty Dollars if in
the county, and all reafonabln charges if bro't
homo.
JESSE REED,
Qusen Ana's County, Maryland-