of tfje an , b P i:) iladelphia Daily
Number 1610.J
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated, Sales
For dRr go da s.
r Forenoon —Edward Fox, No. 56,
. J south Front-street, fagi
-'^Afternoon —Footman & Co. No. ° r 1
Saurti Front-ftwet.
f Forenoon—John Cnunetty , Old City
N Amnion, N« ,73 fom'h Front-street.
J n y*\ Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
C. 183 High-street. x
-7ir • n . f Afternoon —Peter Benfon, No. 74
HeJxefdaj) south Xh ; rd . Rrcet . J
~ C Forenoon—Edward Fox. /
mrj ay Afternoon—John Connelly. - dati
_ ~ ) Forenoon—William Shinnon. ' >e ' l
triday c Afternoon —John Connelly. on
Saturday Afternoon —Peter Benfon. (
United States, 1 ~
Pennfyfaania DiJlriS,
tN pui fuance us a writ to me direSed from the J
| honorable iticHARD Psters, Esq. Judge of the
Uiftrift Cou't of the United States in and for the
il'yKaiiiaDifiriil, will be txpofed to PUSLPC By
;SALE, at the Custom-house, in th; city of fhi- ! 1
ladflphln, on Friday, the 17th inft. at iz o'clock
at coon, (
2 hampers of EarthenWare
I box of Indigo
1 box of Merchandize
1 half barrel do. K
, 3o hags of Coffee x~
j bjriel of Suit Pctre
a bati#.}
I keg >■ of Linens in
I trunk J
1 barrel of Sugar
1 bag of Pepper, and
P<itt of 3 bags of Suo-ar go-
T>? 'a«u haviog been libelled againl, profeeuled
a»i conueainc! a« forfeited, in the I'sid 'oars. . ,
WILLIAM NICHOLS, J wh
Marjha!.
1 Marftal's Office,
Nove iher, 17<7- S dt^
["United STATES, ) *■ (
Peunfylvania JDi/lria, j- z/ ' _ S
f{,J u: fu'ance tf .1 writ to me directed from the h
1 bonora'de Ricii RoPETEiis.Efq. Judge of the
Diflr.a Court of the United States, ir. and for the
Pennsylvania Diftriit, will be exposed to PUBLIC '
SALE, a the Cuitom house in the city of Phila
del Ilia, on Friday, the 17th inlt. at l» o'clock,
at noon,
354 Silver Watches
30 gold Watches
' ' sjo5 jo Watch Keys '
The fanie having-becn libelled aga'nft, prosecuted p
4nd condemned as sots ted, in the fa'd Court. A
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Marflal. ba
Marlhal's Office, 7 C a
id November, 1797 ) .
"
1o be Sold, by Public Vendue,
On Monday, the 13th day of November next,
at n o'lioclt intht forenoon, at thelitidwel
lingpl-trti ion of Alexanp r PoßTti.Efq.
<kceal'ed, in the hundred and County of New- i
Caft'e- ■■■
• All the Stock of the said Farm,
Coiifi'ling of ho'fte fit for draught or saddle, jj
■epltj, fat cattle, milch cows, calves, leveral a ]
pairs of large and valuable oxen. JKeep and t ,
hoj3 (all the botnedcatile and (htep, being of F
a Very latgeand fine breed ) and also cartG, har
rov s, ploiipbs, and other farmit-g utensils, to
gether with a variety of hoiilehold furniture.
'1 he conditions ,-f Sale will be made known,
at the time and place aforefaid.
, Mary Porter, Admrx.
New Caflle Hundred, State of >
Delaware, Ofl :o, 1797- 5 '
£3' All p:rfon» indebted to the estate of ■
said Alexander Porter, are requefted-tSmake j
payment, and thifc have demands againll <
the fjintf, to produce them duly authenticated, I
for feltkmenu
oa. .10. jt s
Wants a Place, as q IVET NURSE,
Ayi-t/ji Q email, who can be well recom
mended.—Enquire of the Ftinter.
Oftobcr 31. 1W
The cSubfcrihers have for Sale,
THE FOLLOWING GOODS—viz.
India Calicos Cordage
Baftas MouMCa-.'dles") mfmall
Sutty Romals WfeireSsap J boxes
Jl. r and red do. - r aft India Sugar
Hummums black Pepper
Muloiuls HpllandGin, inpipts
Do. Handkerchiefs Ke.l & white Pert W.ne
Sprigged and flowered Old Madeira "ine, m
fins Mufli.n for immediate use
Book Muslins Sherry
Bed Covers, of printed Claret, ir. cases
Muslin Taunton Ale
India Peifians Englilh Porter
Dorea* 41 qr.caflcspun Powder
Black Taflfetie* A wrought iron Book
Chinese Sewing Silks Cafe
JEall India Hem?
Philips, Cramond, cr Coi
November 1. ■
Philadelphia, 08. 13.
THE fubferibers inform their frmnds and cufto
meri in town and country, that their Acres are now
open in the city, and others are nai'y opening, and
that.from •>* present appearance of the prevailing
difordcr have reason to hope, their friends may
lhortly come to the city with perfed i>.f ty. By
fevetal late arrivals, numbers have received frclh
fupOlies of GOODS.
Robert Smith of Co. P W. Gallaiulet o Co.-
John Davis isf Co Sit greaves French,
Weill & Smith, George Dohfon,
SViUberitr and Smith, Thomas liyerfin,
jiex Bit/land and Co. T. ft. Harden!)erg.
''fuenh tyerry and Co. John Smith and Co'
Oiuen ii' Jotia Jones, Thomas Orr,
Keppele iff Zantzinger, William Barker >3 Co.
Jda>n Zantz'nger, Thomas A mat o Son.
John Fries, J■ MMer, jun. and Co.
3e ijamin 'SfJ. Johnjun.
OA. 14
Wanted, to Hire,
A Large and convenient HOUSE, in or near
the centre of the city—for which a generous
jerit wdl be given ; to be taken for a year, or 0.1
jkafc far a longer term. Inquire of ths Printer.
(t£t. 17- cots
PHILADELPHIA: MONDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 6, 1797
For Liverpool,
jfr*. The Ship
CLOTHIER,
Nathaniel D. Gardner,majler, f/j
\T7TLL fail ab.<ut the ith ✓ |J<
VV in ft. For freight or pas- *"
sage apply to the Captain, at Vanuxem's wharf, iiv
or to JAMES OLOOEN, «'il
nov. 1 dtf No 41. N. Front ftree? ■ her
Jfc'or bakimore, fe
KfTn. the brig
Bdfe y b " Fe sib /
John Stran, Majler,
A VERY with gojd accommo- J*®"
dations »or Paffengcrs—Njw lying at the whart next " a •
below Marke'-ftreet She has aboui h.alf her cargo r
on bn£rd, and will be teady to depari i" a tew days
For freight or passage apply to the Matter on board,
or to Fro
Samuel & Mien Fifbcr.
II oto e. da* j (
Port and Viadeira Wine, »'
Now Landing, - t
By (hip Edward, from Madeira, and Betfsy and
Peggy, frov, Opor'o, in Pipes and Hoglheads,
For J,ale by
PETER BLIGHT. No
WHO ALSO OFF t R s FOK SA.LI, A
The Skip W;
A M 1 T r>
f >•} /11 TrtA? Four thousand barrels burthen,
excellent order—ready to take
in a cargo—about three years old. °
LiKtWisi,
The Schooner Indus try,
Burden 800 barrels, re idy also to receive a car-
' go—ai>d* qiancity of
Jamaica Rum and Sugars,
Ju.ft landed from the above veffe's at South ftrcet
wharf. egim. Nov. I.
tor London,
15 k
THE SHIP
WILLIAM PENN, ci
James Jofiah, Majler, Fr
nriLL fail with all osyen- O)
5 VV ient expedition For
Ffeight or Piff.ge, apply to. t'.e Captain, er to Ci
JeJfe iff Robert Wain. °
oa.3t. #— Di
For Charter, Jj
THE SHIP T
y°bn Bulkley, l<
Samuel Volaris, Majler. * jj
" I HIS vessel is built of live oak
£ an d cedar, of about 3000
barrels burthen, and ready to receive 011 board a R
JeJfe Iff Robert Wain.
oa. 31. , £_ M
■- For SAVANNAH, c
THI FAST SAIJ.INO 5111 f
aJtggfJr Packet,
Patrick Gribbin, Majler. j,
NOW lying at Smith's wharf,
-- - B - ii3 * • aboveßace-'.lreet. It haudfome
ly accommodated for pallcngers, andwill fail with
all convenient speed. For freight or paflage.app y
to (he Master on board, or at No. 9J, South r
: Front-street, or of the fuHcriberi, I
N. iff J. Frdzier. ft
oit - l8-
For St. ThjQsftas*s7
THE DANISH BRIG q
Prince Frederick, j
Francis Geolfi, Majler. 1
' TTTi:.L faiTwith all convenient spaed, having \
e | VV the greater part of her cargo r«dy t« go
t onboard. For Freight or Passage, apply to the _
I, Captain, or to JOSEPH SIMt.
OA. 18. s 6t
For London,
THE SHIP
Daniel M'Phcrfon, Majler.
TO fail with all convenient speed—a coniidera- 1
blc part of her Cargo being already eng lged.
For terms of Freight or Pad'age, apply to
Roj's its' Simfon.
11 oa. n. <
For Freight or Charter,
The Damjh Brig
,« -rfbel Catherine,r,
11 Burthen about 160 tons.
FHIS> vtlfel *a how rearty to receive on board a
cargo, and may be difp.itched to a«ij port in Eu
rope or the IVletfiterrjnean in eiejht days.
Apply to the Captain on boani,or to the fubferi
ber. JAMES YARD.
>k ° a W - dlCt -
For Freight or Charter,
the good brio
• s U K E Y,
"NOW lying at Clifford's whar , and in compleat
l 0" order to receive a cargo. For terms pleale to ap
,w plv the Captain an board, or
nd Joh" Slyrin,
<ig No. Sl, Arch-tlrcet.
J y WHO HAS FOR SALE,
L B (h 2000 wt.ofdoublerefinedSaltpetre
600 Wt. of F F Gun Powder
£c.- 300 barrels of Herrings
50 bufheU of Timothy Seed
150 cafe- of Claret, firll quality
And a qaantity of Sherry Wins.
Sept. 29- ' Ut
Antigua Rum,
JUST arrived at Wilmington, Delaware
State, and now landing i'rom 011 hoard the
Brig A.nive, William Williams, Mafier,
One hundred hhds. 3d & 4th proof,
And for Sale by
Jehu Hollingfworth & Co.
Wilmington, Sept. al. d;f
N. B. The above Brig,
'ous and {Yk br 'S GAYOSO ' alc
. o.j air» for Sale or Charter, and
r. now ready to receive a cargo
f on board, at Wilmington. Apply as above.
By John Fenno, N° 119 Chefnut Street
For Aniftenhm,
The Ship
jkiAt- WISHING i'ON, \
Captain H.lraan ; p
A staiwch. i".it ai'.sg, Phi- j :
t j U&lphia built veld, of y
livr oi!f at'd cedar, is now in co plete t rder, and a
will fail with all jioffi'jle speed, b.Wi%r great part of (
her carta already engaged- b p.n-
lage (having ercelli-'nt accommoc»»tioiis) apply to
the eaptam on bo -rd, or to .
Summerl & Brdzvn. r
Who have oa hand, h-s
Goiiaives Cotton, Sugar, Mo-
laftes, and a tew thntifand weight of eiceilent <-or cQrj
dage, includiiig several Cables o ,; Sc n inches. vor
nov?itiber 3. tutbJcstf
Landing, " c j
From on the ship Bdward, at Walnut- (p
iirect Wharf, ' *0
London particular Madeira Wine,
6f a fupcr.or quality, For Sale by the fubferiber.
Robert Andrews.
November j. eotf
FOR SALE, ,or
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. J5, rhe corn r of Chefnut and Front ftreejs, j ■
A large quantity of Clocks aivd
Watches. Atf', a genetal silbrtment of Tools, T
Eiles and Mate'iais, casfilling of Clack Move-j A.
mints, eight day and thirty hour brass pini-ns rea
and Urge work ; Bells, clock a«d watch trials,
Springs, 1-fjuds, Glasses, Pursice Stone, EiHCty,
Uott«n Sfoie, Cat Gutj bench, fland and tail
Vicei;'( urns, Pliers Chains. Seals, Keys, &o. &c.
Apprentice* Wanted. i
november f^'utf
From Marseilles. rr
THECARCO 1
Of the Swedilh barque Guflavus Adelphus, from fto:
Marseilles, coi.fiilrng of the following articles, wa
is tlifchsrging at Mr. Latimer's whart, and for thi
sale by the fu fct ibcrs
BRANDY, well flavored, of x, 3 & 4th proof M
Claret, in hogsheads
Ditto, in cases
Frontigniac Wine, in cases »f 30 bottles
Olive Oil, of a superior quality, in balkets of 6
and 12 bottles
Capers
Olives
Almonds,
Dry Verdigreafc
Writing Paper
Umbrellas (Silk) of it, 30 and 31 inches
Taffeties
Long and (hort white Kid Gloves for Women
Silk Stockings
Handkerch'efs, in imitation of Madrafs
Artificial Flowers and Garlands r~\
j Ostrich Feathers J
Ribbons G
Perfumery to
Scented Hair-Powder and PomaUsrn
Manna in forts S'
Cream Tartar.
BENJAMIN MORGAN & E'
ROBERT ANDREWS.
September a 7. eotf
Imported intheIhipMANCHESTER,
'Benjamin Shewell, Master,
From Bourtieaux, and for sale by the fubicriber,
No. ji Walnut Street. y
Bonrdeaux Brandy ~1 a,
Irish market claret in cases ( Entitled to .1
Medoc wine, in do. f Drawback.
Sauterne/do. do. J
Thomas Murgatrsyd.
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter ca(k*
Rota do. do. r
Pimento in bag!
4000 bulhels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tutScstf. I
"DUTY ON CARRIAGES. ;
Notice is hereby Given, i
THAT agreeably to an aft of Ccngrcfs of the > (
1 United States of America, passed at Phila- )
dclphia, the 18th day of May, 1796 ; laying du- 1
tins Oil Carriages for the conveyance ol perlons, (
which (hall be kept by or for any person, for his i
or her own ule, or to let out to hire, or for the
conveyance of passengers, the leveral duties and |
rates following, to v. it :
For aud upon every Ceach,ls dols.
upon every Cl ariot, I a dols.
_ upon every Poll Chariot, la dols.
upon every PofltChaife, la dols.
upon every Phaeton, with or without top,
9 dols.
upon everyCoachee,9 dols.
upon other Carriages havinj; pannelwork
above, with blinds, glasses o: curtains,
a 9 dols.
1- upon faur wheeled Carriages, having fra
med polls and topi with steel springs, 6
i" dols.
upon four wheeled Carriages, with wood
eitoriron springs or jacks, 3 dols.
upon Curricles with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chaises with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols.
upon other two wheel topcarriages, 3 dolfe.
upon two wheel carriages, with steel or
' iron springs, 3 dols.
at For and upon all other two wheel sarriages, 1 dols.
P* upon every four wheeled carriage, having
framed polls and '.ops, and rciling up
on wooden spars, i do!s.
The Collectors of the Revenue for the firft Sur
vey of the Diftria of Pennsylvania, will attend
re daily, until the day of September n"xt, ior
the of receiving the duties on Carriages, at
Germantown; at the house of Daniel st. Clai^,Ef(s
- the County of Montgomery; and at the house
of James Chapman, Etq. iu the County of Backs ; j
of which allpcrfonspoffeffod of such Carriages are |
[ to take notice.
Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dif
lrC tilled spirituous liquors, that licences will begrant
:he cd to them ; ona licence to/carrying on the bnfi
-1 ness of retailing of Wines, iu a Ufs quantity, or
jf, in less quantities than thirty gallons—and one li
cence for carrying an the business of retailing Spi
rituous liquors in less quantities than 20 gallons, at
the fame time and at the fame places, by the cffic-
J crs legally authorised to grant such licences,
ig, 6 7 WILLIAM NICHOLS,
are InfpcAor of the Revrntre of the firft fut
md vey of the Oiftridof Pccr.fylvatiia.
rgo Office of Iqfpedlion at 7 ,j lJn
Germantow, Uth Sept. 1797- 5
ROSS Isf SIMSOIsT,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A Few bales Baftas, ColTas, and Th
a qti ir.tity Of Bengal CO 1' tON ' loan
Bengal StJGAI'., in bags and boxes rolin
•Jamaica, July
St. Vincents ( RUM. wit!'
and B iigal j Unit
Oft ;7. } WWn
¥ £ M or A L: M
Maurice Moynihan,
INFOR?vIS his friends aud the public,* that he
hns rvmdved bis Stofe- oi" Chiria, Cicala, Qjieen« Bv
\%e, and Di-y Goods, from No. 81 Norih St:- J
cond, to No. -si North Seventh Street, north tail
cormr of Ch-ir'ry Alley, yher« lie ibiicits the fa
vor of his former
N. a. Crates nut up with care at the ftorteft ~
notice. £ ofl
Nevember 2. <itf
To Gentlemen who intend fbending ci Uc
the Winter in the City.
M '}
ROOMS to LET, pi,,,
WITH or without Board—at No. 114. corner q uz
of Sixth and Race Streets. The fituatioa q ui .
aoreeable—and vicinity has been free from the late o] n :
contagion. Oct .-i* —-dtf
Samuel Pleafiints W Sons,
No, 74, South Second-Jlreet,
HA Vk received a iupply of Scafonabie GOODS,
which they are now, opening ft»r lale, on
reasonable terms. OA l"] p
St. Croix Sugar (ff Ruyi, go
For Sale by V " 1
JOHN NIXON ftf Co.
OS:. 76. daw. j e (
James & Richard Smith, ~
T AKE ahe libe'r.y <-f informing their 'ri-nds j- r(J
and tlie public, that they have removed their
{lore to Mo. 54, Souti Fnr.tfircct, next dcor io Ed
ward Fox's Auitioa Uooni, where they have at
this time for sale, a large and general aflojtment of
European & Eajl India Goods, Fo(
Many of which are just imported in the Clothier,
Williajn Penn, &c. &c.
OA. 27. 1
Now Landing,
At Sims' Wharf, from on board the (hip Commtrcr, Fr<
captain Chamberlain, from Part au Prince,
35 hogsheads of SUGAR
84 do. MOLASSES
4 tierces do.
FOR SALE, BY
Philips, Cramond, Iff Co. ,
o«s. *7. §
Bolton Glass Manufactory.
THE citizens of the United States are hereby
informed, that the manufafture of Window
Giafs is now commenced at the Glass House in Bos
ton.
It Is needless to fay any thing of the excellent
quality of the Boston Glass, as it is so well known
throughout the United States to be in every refpe&
greatly sup rior to any ever imported from Europe.
It will be cut to any Czc commonly used ; and
may be constantly had by applying to Charlis F.
Kit ri t R, at the tilafs House.
Orders from the distant States to be addrefled to
Mr. Samuil Goat, Court-street, Boston.
Boston, Sept 30,1797 O 4 —iawsw
' Alcjfri. -Tiiroiby anJ flrlafon, Cltarlejton ; Mffis.
anil Itoylan, Halifax, A r . C. fylejfrs. lb'llttt 11
unJ O'Ctmtior, Xoif ti ; Mr. Ellis Price, AiixjnJria ,• _
MtJfrj. 7'uirJt and Brtrivn, Baltimore ; Mr. Hepkitrs,
ffeii'l'ori ; and tjjrr. Hudson & Hm t-
Jord; Mr. Seymour, Savdnfiab ; are nquejled to insert
tie alvae once a rveek 6 zcetls. 'Tie anoints to be Jor
-IvarJeu to tie Editor. . C
At a Meeting of the Board of c
v*Property, juue 6, 1797, tc
Prcftnt John Hall, Seij'ry. ~i _ y
Frannis Johnllon, R. G. > oflandoffice tc
Ilan. Brodhead, S. G.)
Nicholas Bettinger,
Verf us >
Samuel Cunningham.)
In Ibis cafe the proof of service of notice be
ing insufficient, It isordered that notice be giv tl
elen in one of the Philade phia and York newlpa- S
pers weekly, for at leal! eight weeks to the
1- heirs or assignees of Samuel Cunningham de
s, ceased, to amend the board 011 the fir ft Monday | s '
i' l in November next, to lhew caule why a patent J
> e fiiould not iffiie to Nicholas Hettinger for the |
d land in que'lion.
<A true Copy.) . -
JOHN f p
Secretary of the Land Office.
Aug. it. * ww ?*:
p, ~At the Federal Blast Furnace,
In Carver—for Slitting, Platting, and Rolling
MlllS.
" k SEYMOUR'S Patent Rollers.
' S ' THEIR fupcrierity conjijls in- being freefrom
a _ holes and honey-combed flares, which are com
(j monlr found in rollers taft in sand, or cluy
' moulds. Theft patent rollers are cast in iron
d. moulds, previously heated, and will be found to
be more dense, foiid and durable than any rollers
heretofore used. Another important advantage
they have over others, is, that the necks require
no turning, but are immedeitely fit for use, and
>ft. from their accuracy, run with less friflion, and
or require iefs water to make them perform their
work. Ihey may be had by application to the
ilt l . patentee in Plymouth, of Gen. Nathaniel Good
nE win, or of Messrs. Thatcher aid Hay ward
'P* Befltn, yiug. 31. Sept. 19-
Ur 'l'his Day is Published,
nd BY MelT. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the
l or y other Book fellers,
at Price One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
fq F.le«anty printed on IVour paper, and Not
ufe prjfed,
is ; By John Thompfcn,
are A COMPARATIVE VIEWOF
The Constitutions
, ;r Of the several States with each other, and with
, that of the United" States: exhibiting in Tables,
f'r" the prominent features of caeh Confutation, and
" 4 " clafliug together their molt important provisions,'
" r under the f-veral heads of administration j with
. Notes and Observations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
15 c _ Of South-Carolina,
L L. D. and member of the Congrcfs of the
United States.
fui- Dedicated to th« People of the United States.
l. N. ?. A few Copies printed oa an inferior pa
per, at 3-4thsof a dolUr.
n February 6 »wf
N 0 1 I C E.
The holders of certificates of a
loan tq the exited citizens of th« inte of south Ca
rolina and Georgia, under an ail of Congiels 23d
July, 1781, are informed, that by lodging the f.me
vrt! George S mpfon, Cafhu'r oi the Bank of the N
Unitcdsia'.&,i they will be enabled to redeive pay
ment of primipal and interest, as,the certi-
can he forwarded to Cnarleftpn for l'ettle
m 1 l, :,,.i ■ !., .i ■ ui .-ivej nir itieir dil'charge.
November 1. 6t
FOR SALE, '
By the scßsctiißEks, No. sr, Pern-P.rcet,
The Cargo cf the Ship Ganges,
John Green", commander, from Bengal,
Confyhng of
Baftas, of various qualities & prices
Celiacs Pu'njum Cloths
Sanah* €ruzz y do. *
Huiuhums Cfcarconr.a Eorea
fcjue Oloth Tan jibs
Chir.iz and Calicoes Muluvah
Mampodys Checks
M gt.ngcs P-taa Khkfi.
Mulmul do.
Cuzzenaa Ban<Janr.o«s
J Gurrahs Siflerloy
I Piniafcocs Ch pp.; Romals
Salgatchys Sooty do.
Gillie Romals Perliags of various colov.fi
Mock Pulicats
aco toil 3 SUGAR
90,000 lb. PEPPER.
Willings Xsf Francis.
£5" In the co;irle of a few days, the PIECE
GOODS, coinpofl:ig the cargo of thethip Gauges,
vr ill be cxpofed for sale at that large commodious
Store, the northwcfl corner of Market and Fourth'
rtrerts, whir; a bale of cTery fpc-cies of Goods will
leopen. d Q<2. 31.
LAN D I N G,
From on board fhc fhjp Cleopatra, Samuel Newell*
commander, from London,
bo tons of the best clean Ruffi*
HEMP
60 calks of bottled BROWN STOUT.
For Sale by the fuhfciihers, No. SI, l'enn-flreet.
Witlings Is? Francis.
Ocl. 31. d
J aft arrived,
From Port-au-Prince, and for Sile V 7 the fubfer*-
berg, No. 11, Penn-ftrcac,
hogJVads,"^
8» tierce. ( p r i me Coffee
523 barrels f
646 bags J
Willings y Francis.
Oft. s«. $
FOR - SALE,
BT THE SUBSCRIBERS,
Madeira Wine, firfl: quality, i-a
pipes
Madeira Wine, New-York quality, in pipes
Lisbon WINR, in pipes
NU o ™rGS d °f'he Uteft importation, in boxes
SpanilhWool, in Bales, fuinble for Ha'tsrs.
Willings & Francis,
Penn-ftreet, No, si-
No*. 1. w&stf
TENERIFFE WINE. '
LANDING at Walnut-street wharf, TENE
PIPFE WINE, of excellent quality, in pipes and
, half for fa'e by "JAMES YARI).
05. 10. eoßt
City CommiJJioners Gjjicc,
1 August 29, 1797.
IN pursuance of an Ordinance of the "S«leii and
I Common Councils, pafled tjve Sid day of May last.
i r Proposals in writing will be received hy the City
Coramilfioners for one month fronvthe ift of Sep
tember next, for letting to rent on leases for one
year to commence the fivft day of January next, the
e following public property of the city—
The wha'f and landing on Vine Street,
Also on Saflalraf,
Mulberry,
And High Streets,
Chefout and Walnut Streets, Draw Bridge, witft
th« Scale and Fi(h Houfcs, Spruce, Pine and Cedar
!- Streets.
e The cellar under the City-Hill.
.. The Tavern at the middle ferry On Schuylkill,
„ with the lots contiguous thereto, (except so much
lt 1 thereof as shall be occupied hy any buildings ere&-
ie ed for the use of the ColleSor of the Tolls, or b«r
neceflary for the toll-gates.)
Ang. 3 jtawlm.
Imported in the latest arrivals from
1 i Atnfterdam and Hamburg, and forfale by
_ Jji. iff J. Bohlen,
J large atfoiimnU of fiie French Cambrics,
"S PUtillas " nnrjiJiiidDutchlailcJotk
Brittannias Wr:tingTp®fi} print'
Rouanes " ing paper
im Brown Holland Cu ch calf skint
m- Checks and llripes Prime madder
'ay Ticklenburgs Shell'd Bai ley
■on Oznaburgs Looking gladles
to White iheetings Hollow glass wire
•n Diaper Spates
7ge Brown rolls Coffee n>i lit
Ire Umbrellas Brass kettles
tnd Hair ribbons Scythes and ftra\V kmvsj
md Black and whitelacn Toys assorted in boxes
eir - Best Holland Gin in pipes
the London particular Madeira Wine
od- July 24. m&'thfcf
Just publifiled,
And to be fold at the Bcokftores of H. y P,
tlic Rice, No. yo, Market-street IJ. Orlnrod,
No. 41, Chefnut-flreet, and VV. Yo.ung, l
corner of Chefnct and Second streets,
tot- An accurate Syfteni of Surveying;
IX WHICH IS CONTAINED,
1. Decimal frsdlions, in a plain, concise,
and ealy manner.
2. Theextraflion of the square root.
3. Plain trigonometry, reilangulsr and ob
with Hque.
; "- es ' 4. An exaifi method to cast up the contents
and «f lands.
°"k' l'icld ftirveying.
with The wholebeing performed without the ufi;
offcale and compaflea, on a table ef logarithms.
In yvhkh is given tame acfount cf the variation
of the needle, and the causes of its attraflion.
the By SAMUEL MOORE.
Außvft 1.
"THE MAYOR'S OFFICE"
I 4
IS KEPT, FOR TUT. PRESENT, ATTHB
f CITY HALL.
rVeLvysfi XIIPOSTPONED SALTS I
C 3" On account oOhe rijin on Saturday j
evening, toe Sail of Notes wiiich was '
then to take place,, was pnftponed to
THURSDAY EVENING, Nov. 9,
at t> o'clock, at the Merchant's Coffee j
Hottfe. At which time and place
Will be oold at Public Auction/
iols. ctl
1 No t dr-wn hv James Grcpnleif
io f. vour of and endorsed by Edward * '
Fnv, (iatcd ytR /Vc-guft, 1796, due nth \
October iaft, V,
■ 3 do. drawn by said James Greca
leafin'avor of ajid, endorsed by l£d
waH sex dated sth u uft. 1796, at
4 months date, 1 paymeDt doi», 261*1
13, 1681 14, and 2681 14. amount
together #°43 41
3<i« do.'of fame date, drawn and
endorsed asaforeilid, payable in eight
momiu. pat-mertti.dob. IS each;,
aniov.m IpprdiT BqJTi *J 1
3 do. do. of fame date, drawn and
en.torfed as payable in T2
gioruhs' (.ayns-nts, dolsv 2693 75 each,
ampunt together 8 081 35
i 5505 91
I draft drawn by Robert Morris on
Joiii: Nu-t olir ti, 4*ted 28til May, 1796,
St n months 50 JO
I do irawn asaforefaid.at two
yew= jOOO
1 dp. drasvp hy John Nich'ol
fon, on Robert Morris, dated 28th
May 1, at 3 years * 5000 v
i .io. drawn as aforjaid, at 4
years jfooo *
•he said drifts are by (hares
in tbe North Am .•rif* Land ompauy
aiM endorfe<t K y JaOfs Green!esif
«1 Mote dated Bo!•on, 1 Bth May,
t7'j?,dra*Bby t Qawe'., juQ
in favor of Thomas Gieenlt«f, paya
ble Itt ja- uary, I79o,endorfcd by Ji
niel GreenL.u. Henry Newman and
" James Grcenleaf 22J0
■•'j j do. date* 1 Bofton,ißthNov. 1995,
drawn by Daniel GrcenWi'. in favour
ef 11 oma'O.iwcs.jun payah'e Jan.
1798,e-idt.r!ed'by Thotnas Gre nleaf.
Henry Wewnun iU.i Jame? Grec leaf 6J00,-
3 fcotr*, dated Eoft. n, 17th Nov.
, 179', drawn by enjamin Ullkcll. in
fcsv-iur of J.mcs Greenlcaf, payable id
January, 17 9, ei'dorfed : y said James
Grnlcaf and Nahum Fay, do U 5300
1500 —1000 Be>ss
3 do. dated Bollon, l*th Nov. 179J,
dr.v.'fi and endorled as aforefa:d,paya
f.e'tlt Jan„ißon, one payment, dols.
6v00,'
' One bond, ZachMiah Cox to James Greenleaf,
and afJigred by him, dated the Jill March 179?,
iiithe iun of ten rhoufand do'.'ars, conditioned '• r
the conveyance ot ijcoo acres of Land,-near the
town of rredi Ica in Glyn county and state oi
' Georgia, the said bard lull due.
John Connelly } auctioneer.
n.MtaffrXrr 6
For Sale by the Package,
For cata, or good notes »t sixty or ninety days,
vi 7.
Book and Jaeonet Muslins plain
ft, and C hecks i Assorted in
<lo. no. I aUnbourcd f ,
do Ladies handkerchiefs, & j P 4t a^ cs '
ptntletnix's neek Hn. J
Jaconet chintz muslin for home and the Weft
Indit market, Pnllicpte and linen handkerchiefs,
for do. do printed do. do. common purple and ,
chintz (hawli.
The above g' ods entitlrd to drawback on ex
portation. ■'lfo a few. fcotcheambri<k»ind an !
afli'l tment ofm'iflin by the piece.
■ The wh.ile o f the ahovi* be ; »g a eonfignment
from the it B' itain.
To be Teen it Wilciam BiACKBURn's
Oflic-, No- 64, Soutk Second Street.
__lw. ». . V lawtf^
Sales of T'cnr.riffe IVine.
On WEDNESDAY *«/. the Blh infant, :
. Prccifwly a: I ,o\ 10c- will be on Sjjiith'i !
wharf ibpve H |
For approvee 1 tn<iorfef« Votes ar 60 t'ays,
75 pipes London particular Ten**
riffe WINE.
FOOTMAN £3* Co. Auctioneers.
novemhfr 4. <^3*
Young Ladies' Academy
OF PIIL.'DELPHI V
THE Piiblie ?r" "refpeitfully informed, that
the said Aiydemv will he open on Monday, the
sixth of Nov. i»1. for the reception of pupils.
JOHN PDOR, Principal.
N. B. A fchooifor fcojs will be opened an th«
everting of said day.
Ofl. 3t ■ (I6t
Mordecai Lewis,
HAS FOR SALS.
At his Stotr, o. 23, Great Dock-^rei't,
250 bales of Bengal Goods
Containing Baftas . -
C«'ifas
IvToragugungeei
T aokery
Check and Stripes
Bandano HandicrchieTs
Mamoody
Calicoes
11 boxes Iriih Linens
I do. Diapers
7 do Umbrellas
SO caiiifters Java Sugar
78 hags black Pepper
116 do tail India Ginger
100 cttfks roll Brimstone
y pi, cs Madeira Wiue
5 7 calks Gin
■ A quantity ot lhcathing Copper and Nails.
OAob-.r 30. 3»wjw_
TO BE LET—At a moderate Rent,
The principal part of aHOUSE,
.Wli HiN aihort di ance of the Coffee-houfe,
whlth has been occupied far the lall four months,
couDfl-i' S of a good dining room and parlour, two
bed rooms and a dressing room, two gai rjts, kitch
cn, wood v-ult and cellar, all in excellent order,
.fit for the immediati reception of a small family.
Non. need apply butthofc who are reTpeitable and
retcu'ar. Inquire at the office of this Gazette.
OA. »<•
Samuel & tviie s Jbiflier,
SRV NOW OPS' lNft,
At tlieir Warchoufe, No. 2), Dock Street, a frelh
affor'ment of Woolen and other goous, fu'table to
th eafou, received by the late arrivals from Eng
land.
Tut* have also fur Sale,
Lilbon
1 crx-v.t S- In pipes, hhds. and quarter cases-
Sherry, and f rr
PortH ir.es, J
Affortfd queen's ware in trates, See.
loth mo- 13d- djw3tawjw.
JfHJL A DELPHI As.
/MONDAY EVENING,^-NOrEMSES 6.
For the Gazette of the Unitso Stages.
TO THE PUBLIC.
When I alTmed that the account of Dr.
Ruth's conduit in the year 1793, was falfc
or mifrept*fented, I did not know or fuf
pefl Dr. Carrie to be the author of it. I
have never felt the least un'dndnefs to this
gentleman, nor am I aftuated by rcfentment
in thus publickly refuting his adertions. My
; motives in the preftnt imdertaking are a re-,
gard to truth, and gratitude to my mufch
refpefted friend and preceptor in mcdieine,
whose charjfter has been mod unworthily
traduced in the publication alluded to.
Dr. C u trie's fir ft tfh rge again ft Dr. Rulh,
is as follows :
Information refpefting Dr. Rush's con
duflandtranfa&ions during the prevalence
of the malignant fever of 1793 —Commu-
nicated by one of the members of the col
lege of physicians.
" Dr. Rush having tried the effefts of
mercurial purges which he acknowledged
to the coll* e of physicians on the 26th of
August, had been recommended to him by
Do'ftors Hodge and Carson, the latter of
whom had experienced their good effefts
upon himfelf on a former 6ccafio;i, ih a dose
containing Jo grains <jf calomel, made tri
al of them, and was so highly pleased with
them, that he alTlimed the credit of the dif
eovery, though they had been frequently
employed, both by the East and Weft-India
physicians long before 1793, as may be seen
in *he publications of Lind, Blaney, Clark,
Balfour and others."
To tKis I answer, that Dr. Ru(h began
the-treatment of th« yellow fever by means
of purges of calomel mid salts—and bleed
ing. These were effe£hial in the cases of
Mrs. Bradford, Mrs. Learning, and Mr. Pal
mer, to whom Dr. R was called on the 6th
7th and 14th of August. Finding them
ineffectual in fotne subsequent cases, he had
recourse to bark, wine, and othef tonic re
medies recommended bv Dr. Stevens. These
proving Slike unfuccefsful he retreated to
the remedies he had began with, but in a
more powerful form. I (hall here give the
doctor's account of the change in his prac
tice from his history of the yellow fever
in 1793.
" I fufpefted that my want of success in
discharging this bile, in several of the cases
■in which I attempted the cure by purging,
was owing to the feeblenefi of my pOrges.
I had been in the habit of occasionally
purging with calomel in bilious and in
flammatory feveri, and had recommended
th». practice the year before in my leftures,
not only from my own experience, but upon
the authority of Dr. Clark. I had more
over, other precedents for its use in the prac
tice ©f Sir John Pringle, Dr. Cleghorn, and
Dr. Balfour, in diseases of the fame class
with the yellow fever. But these wtre not
| all my vouchers for the fafety, and efficacy
los calomel. In my attendance upon the mi
litary hospitals' during the late war, I had
seen it given combined with jalap in the bil
ious fever by Dr. Thoma# Young, a senior
filrgeon in the hospitals. His usual dose
was ten grains of each of them. This was
given once or twice a day, until it procured
large evacuations from the bowels. Fot a
while I remonstrated with the Doctor against
this purge, as bcirig difproportioned to the
violence and danger of the fever; but I was
I soon fatisfied that it was as fafe as cremor
tartar, or glauber'3 salts. It was adopted
by feveial of the surgeons of the hospital,
and was univcrfally known, and frmetimes
prescribed, by the simple name of t»n and
ten. This mode of giving calomel occurred
to me in preference to any other. The
jalap appeared to be a nccefTary addition to
it, in order to quicken its paflage through
the bowels ; for calomel is (low in its opera
tion, more «fpecialJy when it is given in large
doses. . I resolved after mature deliberation,
to prefcribt this purge. Finding ten grains
of jalap inefficient to carry the calomel
through the bowels, in the rapid manner I
wished, I added fifteen grains of the former,
to ter. of the latter ; but even this dose was
flow, and uncertain in its operation. I then
iflued three doses, each confiding of fifteen
grains of jalap, and ten of calomel 5 one to
be given every fix hours until they procured
four or five large evacuations. The effefts
of this powder, not t)nly answered, but far
exceeded my expectations. It perfectly
cured four out of the firft five patients to
whom I gave it, notwithstanding some of
them were advanced several days in ftie dis
order."*
My notes taken from Dr. Rush's public
lectures in the university, and from his pri
vate le&ures to his pupils in the winter of
179a —and early in the- fnmmer of 1793,
bear testimony to the truth of the above re
lation as far as it alludes to the exhibition of
strong mercurial purges in the bilious fever.
These notes are open to the infpe£ticm of
such gentlemen as may wish (o fee them.
In a confutation which Dr. Rush attend
ed with Dr. Hodge and Dr. Foulke, in the
cafe of Mrs. Le Maigre, on the 19th of
August, the day before she died, Dr. Hodge
mentioned that Dr. Carson had taken a
scruple of calomel, by advice ofthe late Dr
William Smith, in a gouty complaint, with
great advantage. Dr. Smith had learned
the fafety and use of larges dose of calomel
from Dr. T. Yonag, in the hospitals, dur
ing the late war, where he served at the fame
time with Dr. Riifh. The prescription, of
course, could not be new to Dr. Rush, al
though it probably might be so to Dr.
Hodge. -It was by reasoning upon the dis
ease that Dr. R. determined to combat it
with the medicine of Dr. Young. After
hehad nfed it with success, he communicated
an account of it on the 3d of September
(and not on the 26th of August, as Dr.
Curria has aflerted) to the college of j>hy
* See pag* 400. JCI. . (
ficians, and urged, as a rcafon for T thcir
adopting it, that upon mentioning the re-'
medy ts Drs. M'llrtiine, Griffitts, Hodge
and Carfoh, he had been happy to find, they
had all been in the use of calomel as well as
himftlf; but nonu of them had used it com
bined with jalap—agreeably to Dr. Young's
prpfcriptfon s—none5 —none of them had used it in
large and repeated doses, so as to excite a
salivation, as well as to discharge the morbid
contents oP the bowels. In the use of calo
mel, to excite a salivation, Dr. Ru(h stood
alone. Much of the abuse he then experi
enced was for this mode of using it. The
good effeCts of-thus diverting the disease
from the vital parts, by exciting a new ac
tion injhe throat and mouth, have been so
obvious, that this mode of curing the yel
low fever has been adopted by all the phyli
cians in Philadelphia 5 even by those who,
like Dr. Currip, it in the severest
terms in
in the Wtll, and ( Dr. Wade in the Eafl In
dies, adopted a iimilar mode of treating ma
lignant Fivers in the year 1793. But of
this Dr. R. could have no knowledge, as
appears by the honorable testimony which
Dr. Chifholm bears to the practice of Dr.
R. in the following words :
" Since my arrival in England, I have had
peculiar fatisfaCt ion in finding that a treat
ment, nearly pmilar to the above, had been
adopted with great success in the malignant
pestilential fever, which so fatally prevailed
at Philadelphia during the autumn of 1793.
Dr. Rush's medical talents and merit aie too
well known and top generally acknowledged
to require the feeble efforts of my pen to
extol them. If any thing, however, could
add to the excellence of this gentleman's
character, it must be his benevolent exer
tion, and .unwearied perseverance during the
txiftencc of thij dreadful calamity, in re
lieving his helplcfs and afflicted fellow-citi
zens, and in pursuing the mercurial mode of
treatment, with the height of prejudice and
malignity in opposition to him. Such fortitude
is rarely met with in the medical profefTion ;
and wh«n ft is, it must feeure our admira
tion and refpeCL" &c, —Seep. 275. 6.
It may not be amiss to add here, that in
no ft age of the disease did Dr. Hodge sali
vate his patients in 1793 ; that he continu
ed to employ bark and wine with his mode
rate doses of calomel, and he was one
of the most inveterate enemies of Dr. R's
praftice. I /hall ask too—why, if D r - H.
discovered the use of calomel, wis Dr. Ru(h
loaded with such insult .and abufc as he ex
perienced ?—And why did not Dr Hodge,
at that time step forward to share in the abuse
to which Dr. R*i<h had exposed himfelf ?
Ii Dr. Currie had refrefhed his memory
by reading his firft pamphlet on the yellow
fever, before lie fat down to villify Dr. R.
lie would have found an acknowledgment of
his having derived the use of calomel—not
from Dr. Hodge—but from one of the au
thors to whom Dr. Rush haß expressed his
obligations, viz. Dr. Clarke. 'Tis ftrangt !
' hat Dr. Curri« should profit by his reading,
ind not allow the fame privilege to Dr.
Rush !
Dr. Currie proceeds by aflerting, " He
appears to have read Dr. Mofely's directi
ons for treating the yellow fever of the Weft
Indies, about the loth of September for
the firft time. In that treatise very profufe
and frequent bleeding is recommended, from
a persuasion that the disease was always at
tended with inflammatory symptoms in the
beginning, which in that climate was pro
bably the cafe, as the fubjeas that came
under Mofely's car* were flrong, vigorous,
plethoric English sailors." The infinuaticn
which Dr. Currie has made that Dr. R.
had read Dr. Mofely for the firft time about
the 10th of September, is unfounded and
malevolent. Dr. R. was possessed of Dr.
M.'s book long before the disease appeared
in Philadelphia.:—he was minutely ac
quainted with it, and had alwavs considered
him aa. an author of tea great refpeSability
and merit, not to put it into the hands of
his students among the firft works upon
acute and tropical diseases. His practice
of bleeding was iu part derived from this
excellent author. It is true he did not
bleed generally in the month of Au{juft,
or in the beginning of September. The
disease during the hot weather, coufifted,
as in the Weft Indies, of but one or two
paroxysms, apd yielded to one or two copi
ous purges. After the weather becam*
copl, the fever protraCted itfelf into three,
four, and five paroxysms, and then it be
came ncceflary to combat it \yith the lancet
is well as with purging medicines. The
extraordinary success of ftfong mercurial
purees in this fever during the hot weather,
will not surprise those who are familiar with
the Weft praCtice. Mr. Brice tells
us that in a warm latitude, on board th«
Bufbridge Indiaman, he loft but three out
of 2jo patients whom he treated with mer
curial purges only, without bloodletting.
Dr. Pennington declared oti'his death-bed,
that of 48 patients to whom he had given
the mercur.al purges (without bleeding) he
had loft none. He declared further, that
he had saved.no one to whom he had given
bark and wine. Ido not hesitate to vouch
for the truth of Dr. Rush's afiertion, in
his letter to Dr. Rodgers, respeCting the suc
cess of his practice in the early stage of the
disease, after he had adopted the depleting
remedies. It was my happiness to witness
and share in the triumph which those reme
dies produced over that formidable disorder.
The diminution of his success after his sick
ness, was owing to causes which havf been
explained at full length in his treatise on the
yellow fever of 1793. The chief cause, I
well remember, was the publications a gain ft
those remedies; and of those publications,
such as came from the pen of Dr. Currie
had the most mischievous effeCts.
Dr. Currie has afTerted, in language not
very consistent with that of a person who
wished " to brigg to an issue the question,
so interesting to the community, relative to
the most fuccefsful method of treating the
malignant fever which has infefted and o<;-
cafionol such depiprable mortality in differ
ent sea-port towns of Awerica, since the
year 1793," " D°£t°r here re
membered to forget the information he for
merly acknowledged he had received from
Dodtors Hodge and Carson, refpjicting. the ,
efficacy of mercurial purges ia bilio&s cases. '
He a'fo remembered to forget having fcen !
the good effedta produced by bleeding a fat i
cook in Water-street, the day after he had j
threatened to prosecute Dr. Barnwell for a
design upon the life of Mrs; Rofs in Wal
nut-street, because he bled her in the very
fame kind of fever that tye now applauds it
in, and employs as a .cordial and anodine,
and in desperate cases, to make the patient
die easy. He alfu remembered to forgtt to
mention, that he adopted his faagvinary
code not from Draco but from Mofely, who
was a mere empiric that praCtised in Jamaica ,
some years ago." In thehot weather, Dr. :
Ru(h considered bleeding as ■
He had cured hnudreds without it. Dr.
Barnwell had visited Mrs. Rofs at this time
■ without Dr. Rush's knowledge, on the 4th
or sth day of her disease, afid had bled
her beyond that time in which it is common
.to begirt the use of that Remedy. She died
soon afterwards. It is pollible, that had
fh« been bled at an earlier period, she might
have recovered, as the disease was then
tending, from a change in the weather, to
more than one or two paroxysms. Dr.
Rush complained of Dr. Barnwell's con
duct, and threatened, if he again interfered
with his praCtice, to complain of him to
the Mayor of the city. The latter part of
this paragraph I (hall notice hereafter.
In Dr. Currie's quotation of Dr. Rush's
directions to the citizens of Philadelphia,
he has introduced the word his inflead of
the, alluding to the remedies he employed.
I (hall introduce the firft part of the direCti
ons as Dr. C. has given them, and re
qucft those who are anxious to fee how differ
ent they are from the original, to refer !
either to the Federal Gazette, or to page
227 of Dr...Rush's treatise on the yellow
fever.
",0n the 12th September he publilhed in
the Federal Gazette the following directi
ons to the citizens :
" Dr. Rush, regretting that he is unable
to comply with all the calls of his fellow-ci
tizens indisposed with th« prevailing fever, j
recommends to them to take his mercurial '
purges, which may now be had with fnit
able directions at most of the apothecaries,
and to lofe.ic or 12 ounces of blood as soon
as convenient after taking the purges," &c.
" How far the assertions contained in the
address correspond with fafts, let the obi
tuary of that month determine, and the
deaths in his own family."
This perversion in the 6fe of a word
strongly indicates Dr. Currie's difingenuily.
In no one instance, and as no time did Dr.
Rush call them his remedies.- He constant
ly ascribed them to Dr. Young, Dr. Mofe
ly, Dr. Balfour and Dr. Clarke ; and as
far as they related to purging and bleeding
•without mercury, he ascribed them with e
qual modesty to Dr. Hillary, Mitchell and
others. >
In Dr. Currie's attempt ta refute tht ac
count of Dr. Rush's success, he mentions
the " obituary of that month and the deaths
in his own family," I shall hereafter notice
the firft part and shew that Dr. Currie ought
to have been the last person in the world to
mention any thing in allusion to the morta»
lity of that period. As to the 2d part, all
I have to fay is—that coftfidering the labor,
distress, want of deep, and constant infec
tion from crowds of sick people, to which
J)r. Rush's family was exposed ; it was
more extTSSfiigary that any of them survi
ved, than that anyoftktgi died of the di
sease. Let any one consult tb* narrrative
which Dr. R. has gi*en at the ct<jfej>f his
3d volume, and they must be convinceafit
once of the truth of this observation. In
replying to this paragraph, I am disposed
to ask whether Dr. Currie be a human be
ing, and whether he has ever felt the tiesof
brother or of friend ? If he meant to wound
Dr. Rush by remioding-him of the loss of a
most beloved lifter, who gave her life to save
hi 3, and of the death of his amiable pupils,
he has been fully gratified. I have witnefled
the silence and indifference with which Dr.
Rush has treated all the calumnies which
have lately been published against him ; but
the cruel /haft which reminded him of his
deep afflictions in 1793, did »ot fall like ma
ny others bhinted to the ground. This
reached his heart ! Enjoy then Dr. Currie,
I repeat it again, enjoy the misery you have
inflided by that merciless stroke ! But may
you never experience any thing like it.
Dr. Currie proceeds as follows in his a
buse of Dr. Rush.
" Immediately after one of his addresses
to the citizens, the following advertisements
were published at his requefl in all the news
papers.
" Dr. Rush's celebrated mercurial purging
and sweating powders for preventing and cu
ring the prevailing putrid fever, may be had
carefully prepared, with proper directions
at Betton and Harrifon's, No. 10, South
Second street.
Dr. Rush's mercurial sweating purge for
the yellow fever, may be had carefully pre
pared with the doCtor's directions, and fold
by William Delany, druggist and chemist,
&c.
Dr. Rush's mercurial sweating powder for
the. yellow fever, with printed direCtions,
prepared and fold by permission, by Gokl«-
thwait and Baldwin, chemists and druggiftg,
&c."
By this assertion which is moft,unequivo
cally falfe, it would seem that Dr. Currie
willies to make it appear that Dr. R. parti
cipated in the gains of the apothecaries, who
prepared and fold those remedies. 'Tis e
vident this must be the motive, as otherwise
the advertisements are certainly by no means
censurable. Be that as it may, I shall re- j
fer to Dr. Rush's 3d vol. p. 204, 5, where
he speaks of his inability to comply with ,
the demands for those powders ; notwith
standing he had the assistance of 5 pupil;,
together with his mother, (jfter, in 4 two
other, persons. This thfn. was the reason of
his furnithing the apothecaries with the reci- '
pe and dirediions, witlj the benevolent wifll
of rendering them more extensively ufeful to
his filffering fellow-citizens. Whilst those
men were daily making immense sums
by the sale of those powdery Dr. R. re
ceived but one dollar and an half, which was
.given to one of his pupils by some
who called for them. Many. pounds of Ja
lap and Calomel were ifined from his (hop,
and by far the greiteft part was given to tht
poor. • *
Dr. Currie has asserted, that Dr. Rush
assumed the " discovery" of the use of calo
mel and bloodletting in the yellow fever.
From what has been said, it-appears that no
fitch honor was ever claimed by Dr. Rush.
He introduced them only into practice lft
Philadelphia. All his publications both in
th? newfuapers in 1792, and in his treatises
on the yellow fever, hcrld forth no other iijea..
The reader may be fatisfud of the truth of
this aflertion by confuting the Federal Ga
zette of 1793, of September 11, 12, l£,
I4a;>d 19, and every part of Dr. Rufli'g
wonks where those remedies are mentioned.
I cannot help noticing here the inconsist
ency into which Dr. Cnrrie has been betiay
ed by his want of memory. In one of his
publications in the Federal Gazette of the
20th September, 1793, he afcribts the de
pleting practice to Dr. Rush.; and at the
fame time reprobates it as " iewf certain
death" in the yellow fever. In his preface to
his 2d pamphlet, he ascribes it. to the col
lege of physicians. These rr; his words :
" He (meaning himfr'f) however do»s not
pretend to have been the improver of the.
treatment, of the discoverer of the means
most effeftual in the cure, whi.ch is recofri
mended in the following p:iges. On the
; contrary, he believes they were adapted fmnj
; the joint deliberations of the college of phvfi
. cians." In the publication rran-
Cderation, he ascribes it to Dr. Hodge and
others. To which of these publications
(hall we tioiv give credit ?
JOHN REDMAN COXE.
V [To be continued.
UWH - *
Translated
for the Gazette of the United States,
, Fremihe Journal General dc France, printed
ai Paris—July 22, 1797.
Remarkable refesnblances between the ty
rants jf '93 arid the empen r Caracalla!
" Caracalla at firft held, conjointly with
! his brother, the reins of the Roman empire ;
their fouls were equally feiocious. Jealousy
sos power delayed not to divide them. 'Ge
ts was immolated. Pofterityhasfhut itseyeson
| his vices, feeing him only as aviftim ; but his
tory observes that if he had anticipated his
! brother, the world would not thereby have
been less unhappy."
Who overturned Robefpicrre ? His an- '
cient friends, the accomplices of allhis crimes.
Why did they bring him to the fcaffold ?
To reign in his place ? Why were there .a
mongthemen who figured in the march of ther
midorien justice, so many who entered, and
who enter every day the ranks of BabceuT ?
Because they perceived that justice excluded
the ambitious, and that having no other title
to public confidence than ambition .and
crimes, it was their interest to exclude and
proscribe virtue.
" The crime of Caracalla, fays hiftery,
did not remain unpunished ; neither plea
sures nor flattery could rid him from the
rending remorses of a guilty conscience : ihe
stern countenance of his father, and the
bloody ghost of Geta, would often present
themselves to his troubled imagination : but
his remorses only prompted him to extermi
nate every thing that could recal his crime
and the remembrance of his affilfTwated
brother."
How many terrible applications could we
rist niake here I but our readers will ejfily
supply tiitfa, *
" Caracalla put to death twenty thou
sand persons of both sexes, under the vague
pretence that they had been friends to Geta;
it was fufficient to have had the least con
nexion with him, to weep for his death,
even to pronounce his name, to be guilty of
high treafou."
Thus our revolutionary tyrants put to
death every one who had any relation, either
with the proscribed of the ancient govern
ment, or with the proscribed of the 31ft
May.
" Caracalla for a very flight offence, con
demned to death the inhabitants, generally,.
of Alexandria, in Egypt ; stationed in a
secure place in the temple of Serapis, he or
dered and beheld whh a barbarous pleasure,
the massacre of many men, citizens and fo
reigners, without paying any regard to the
-number of these unfortunates, or the nature
of their offence."
Unhappy cities of Lyons, of Bedouin,,
and of Toulon ! this is without doubt, the
model which yosr demolilhers and affafiini
had before their eyes. More barbarous even;
than Caracalla, they arc not contented to
drink the blood of your inhabitants, they
have destroyed your edifices and your fine it
monuments.
" Caracalla carried his fury throughout
the empire. Each province became in*its
turn the theatre of his rapines and his enti
ties."
We wifll that the limits of this pa
would permit us to present to our readers
the pi&ure of the bloody marches of this
montter, they would find in it the hiftery
ef our uroconfu's. i
" Calumny was the favourite weapon • of
Caracalla."
But however able he was in managing; it,
if he was to come to life again, he would
with pleafurc take lessons from Poulticr and
his friends.
" Caracalla declared waragainft the whole
world."
Is it not what we have done, is lit not
what we still do in France ?
" He iflceffantly repeated that a foiiereign
ought to assure himfelf of the affefi ijm of
his foidiers, atrd count the reft of hi* sub*
je&s for nothing/' > • ■ *" 'TKj'es not this attrocious and dangerous ]
ir .ixfm seem to revive around us ? we per- fto
ceive that the revolutionary government is is <
pad : th'ey would perhaps re-eftabli(h it un- wh
der another name ; they would give us a wh
military government. The latter would be noi
more fangjiinary still, if it is possible, than Fr
the former. Wo Unto France, if they ad<
(houW organize it ! but vro unto those like- the
wife who (hall have conceived and put it fel<
in aflion ! pel
" After the murder of Geta, the prefeft the
of the pretor's court, Papinian, received an rat
order to employ all the force of his elo- de]
quence, to apologize for this crime : the
philosopher Seneca, in a like cirenmftance, fitt
blushed not to fell his pen to the son and are
affafliri of Agrippina. Papinian refufed to me
obey the tyrant : it is easier to commit a frat- the
ricide than tojujify it. Such was the reply bee
<>f this illustrious personage, who hesitated
not between the loss of life and that of the
honor." ' "w
More fortunate than Caracalla, the exclu- ric;
Jives have found, and find every day, (hamelefs nci
?. polo gifts of their old crimes, and of the new Th
crimes which they meditate ; but if alFthofe the
Who love order in France had the courage on
to watch the brigands who plot their ruin boi
and their death, we might reft very easy a- wh
bout the manoeuvres of these enemies of hu- grt
manity, who are ftiong only bythevemem- to
trance of the £artlefi>efs with which we fuf- ofi
fered them to organize their firft outrages, ex]
i . : —■
NEW-YORK, November 3. wa
Accounts by the Elefta arrived yesterday me
from Leogane state, that the (hip Andro
mache of this port, lately taken by a French to
privateer and carried into St. Domingo, ha 3 ,°f
been released—and, as is said, in confe
cuence of a late decree and order received the
from France. r "5
It rnnch to be hoped this information of
may be aronrate ; but the late aecO Jnts
from Europe <io not entirely lead us to ex- ! to
pest t' at so favourable a decree has already ; ma
found its way to the Weft-Indies. cai
PORT WINE.
The orders received at Oporto this 'year
are for no more than 11,000 pipes, of which
goc'o are for England, Ireland, a:jd Scot- j
land, and the reft for otl.er parts of Europe. 1
In the year 1794, the exports amounted to n „
52,000 pipes. There is therefore,.a fall- 1'
ing-off, reacliing nearly to four-fifths of the j Mi
whole quantity. The last fleet has brought ;
only 3500 pipes for the port of London cr?
The imports for the whole of this kingdoi* w i
does not exceed 5000 pipes. I eft
The Methuen treaty, concluded in 1703,'
between England and Portugal, while it
ftipulate3 for an abatement of one third of
the duty on the wines of Portugal, imported <j e
into jhis country, does not contaip any arti- the
cle binding to admit the manufactures of P°
England on better terms than those of any
other nation. The late treaty with France, f QI
therefore, which puts the republic on the ku
fame footing in point of commerce as Great- fui
Britain, cannot be said to be in any degree bo
injurious to us*; but merely declaratory of j o |
the treaty with Great-Britain. t h,
'
MERCANTILE INFORNATION- £
The following is copied from the " Courier (to
Maritime du Havre," of the 2.5 th August, f„
1797. I I hl
.Translatedfor the Daily Advertifcr. _
An addrefs.from the Merchants at Havre de
Grace to the Legislative Assembly. w
Citizens Representatives, |.bi
We have a long time addressed ourselves th
to Heaven with ardent vows for a re-eftab- '
liftltnent of peace, without which it is im-
pofliblc that the commerce of France (hould
he reftqred. Calumny in vain haS accused j n
the legislative body,to bring to remembrance th
its happy tera. It is well known with what £
tagernel's th. -preventatives of the people
have ratified the differed treaties wh.ch the fc
Diredteyy has submitted to the:i" C?rr. it y,
< is not our delign to destroy the dark ten
Machiavelian policy, which has various times v
cither broken or stretched out the links of
negociation. May the two powers, united ot
with principles and intentions, acceleiate f 0
the general peace.
But as the demon of war still continues
,to assassinate us with his impure breath, it
is neciiffarythat our present situation (hpuld a ,
be contidered. tl:
. Neutral nations alone poffcls our exterior ig
commerce; without those we (houldl be in
want of the greatest necessaries. Within y
two years they have filled our ports and
brought in plenty. The French have lent
their flag, by which they have peaceably
navigated every sea. ti
Our allies, the Americans, had preferv- t!
Ed them every reciprocal advantage of our y
treaty of friendftiip of 1778. AH our mar- ']
itime rules were wounded befsre this solemn I
contrast. The. tribunals have never thole d
laws which were made for them, as a rule t
■for their decifiont. Since the commence- p
ment of the war, government has never or- c
dained that they (hould be blended with the v
other neutral 1
At length denounced by 1
citizen Pal Wet, of the 12th V-n- ,
tofe, as being unconptutional, appeared \
without being submitted to you; and as ,
soon a* a swarm of privateers had .alien up- 1
on American veflels, without even sparing ]
those bound to France, we have prevent- ,
«d their navigation; we have brought them ]
into our ports; they have been had before 1
the Tribunal; where they have: been denoun- ,
ced as being under the disguise of Engltlh;
they have been declared as legal prize, not
because their.papers did not prove their neu
trality ; but, because they had not the Role
d'Equipage.* . .
Nevertheless the Americans arc only
bound to (hew a passport—we have never
seen them in our ports with a Role, becaule
that was never regarded as of utility. In a
word they have been confifcafted under a for
mal pretext, »to which every other nation
has. been constantly fubjeft, and in which
tb<y have cier bteu exculpated.
I Citizen representative;!, it is time to put a E
stop to this disastrous abuse of trade, for it h
is easy to prove to you,that thefeAmericans, h
which the pirates call English, are friends ai
who carry to France provisions which belong ft
not only to neutral nations, but even to the o
French. Therefore the pirates whS dare o
address you with petitions in the name of h
the merchants of our ports, who secret them- i«
selves, have the audacity to pillage the pro- C
perly from our citi zens, or at least from ti
their good friends. The result of these pi- tl
ratical tranfaftions will be, that we dial) be fa
deprived of their assistance. ai
These corsairs, who the name of ! ce
fitting out veflels, and of being merchants, fft
are no other than vile aggreflors against com- i at
merce, for the honest merchants have refufed ee
those kind of voyages since piracies have ft
become the trade. di
The reason why a drtad is spread atriong ai
the commercial people is, tfia't the' English : tf
iir/agine we force the friendfliip of the Ame- j ai
ricans, and that neceflity inclines us to otlier ' fc
neutrals, who begin to follow our example, j 01
They stop every, neutral veflel they meet ; ' bi
they seize their cargoes, and confifcate up- : ai
on the (lighted suspicion those vfhich are w
bound to France. The EngliSi frigates jTa
which block -«up our ports, drive off the > p
greater part of neutral veflels which come in- 1 ai
to our bays. If we persevere in our (yftem jee
ofinjuftice ngainft the Americans, we might j c;
exp«& the Englifli would imitate us against ; 01
others, and we (hould be exposed to the ! F
want of every thing, and the French com- ja*
merce would be totally I w
If your commifllon is not yet in readiness p
to report on the decree of 12 Ventofe,we beg ti
of you, citizen* representatives, as an urgent d
and eflcntial matter, provilionally to suspend j ri
the falcs and proceedings against the Ame- ] g
ricans. This plan will not injure the right j U
of p 1 ivateers, if any there are, if there arc- , o
none, (he wili dispose of the public tr«afure ft
'to their interests, and indeunification which f<
may h»ve been repeated against the Ameri- h
cans by being condemned. t!
Signed, &c. a:
* Lift of the (hips crew (or compliment) ti
w
Tranjlated for the Nciv-Tork Gazette. f
LAF.-iVJITTE. b
( Gilbert Mot tier i;)
Deputy from the city of Rioni in 1789 ; eom
nm"'k'.nt general of the I'arifu i national guard in
I -89, 90, and 91; general of the army of the w
Moselle, emigrated in t"79». • C
I Hiilory will perhaps be aftoniflied that he join- c
l ed all the verf'tiliry of a courtisr with all the en c
ergy «f a revolutionist ; all the fineffe of intrigue
with all the herp fm of conrage Frefm hii tarli-
I eft youth thrown by the court of France in the 11
' school of revolutions, he palled from onehemif- Is
phere to the other, to learn under Waftington tl
the firft rudiments of war, there to enjoy the ido- t;
Utry of an imotnfe people whom his sword re»-
dered free. Called, by order of the nobility, to '
the states general, he saw clearly enough that the 0
' popular party would triumph, that th« revolution v
was ripe. But thi eventi of America had made
him old enough at thirty years to know the pro
found ta.clic of enchaining fadions Nobody
' ku«vv Sett. 1 than him how to draw part from in-
furreflions themselves to stop their effefli. No-
body knew better thin him kow to profit by the h
: science of courts, to accommodate himfelf to the e
follies of that which then reigned oTer France. If r
| the sth O&ober, to stop tha greatest part of the
diforderi, which might have been expeded-to ke -
the confeiueace of that day. he hadtheartto "
force all the parties to unite thcmfslves Under his v
standard, by provoking violence against himfelf J
1 from the adherests of the court, in order to get
j himfelf declared ehief of the infurreition, did be .
. not on the seth June fWlowing, open the gates to
. Louis 16, on purpof« to stop him at Varenpes;
; and by this bold stroke to confuramatc rhe great t
I work the constitution which neiiHrr *he Jaco. t
.bins nor the partisans of the» court, would aflow
5 tke completion of- With vrhat presence of mind
. did he not play off the manoeuvres ol the day of
the poignirds ? With what courage, the fame <
, dayi ami ahm»ft at the fame moment, did he not :
' go and offer his head to tha battallion of Sanrerre, c
1 in revolt at Vnlencicnnes, while Gouvion hisbro-
f thcr ofliccß and friend, completely difperftd tho
t conspirators of the palace,of the Thuillcries ? 1
. saw him, Worthy of commanding, go froip rank t
to rank of this revolted battallion hara»guing the (
e seditious, r nd turning aside with his sword the ba- (
t yonets wkich threatened him. .
f How completely had he organized the national '
5 f'jards 1 What a public fpTrit had he created !
r What reciprocity of ties and obligations ! Thou- 1
, rands of citiiens, not long before timid and with- ;
out country, becarae at his voice, )o many heroes |
e for the conqueftsnel.prelervation of lib rty.'Per
haps he talked too often Fauxboorst the
s laAguage which he held to the savages of Ameri
ca. Some pcrfons were moved from without, the 1
movers of the Fauxbofcrgs were there—But there
are enough who will recite the history of his vir
tues or of his fault* If he was a traitor, lam
r ignorant of it, All his accusers have perilhed on
„ the fcaffol,d, and his long captivity among our for
j eign enemies docs not appear to prove that he fer
. ved them well,
d _____
1 CHARLESTON, Oftofcer 19.
y It affords us great fatisfattion to be able
to inform the public, that capt. Story and
r- the crew of the English (hip Aracabeffa,
ir which was burnt in Five Fathom Hole on
r- Tuesday morning, the 17th instant, by a
n French privateer or pirate, arrived yefter
e day in town, in Mr. Taylor's canoe, from
le Stono, where they had been landed by the
:• pirates who had destroyed the veflel. An
r- opportunity offers at the fame time, which
ie we (hall readily embrace (as it is not proba
ble rtiany such will occur) of greeting the
iy humanity of pirates who spared the lives
i- which they had power to take. It would
:d have been much too sanguine, to have ex
»s pefted their outrages to have been limited
p- to plundering, burning and destroying the
ig property of their enemies, prote&ed by
t- the neutrality of our port: —we do there
in fore moll heartily congratulate them, for
re the violence done to their natural inclinati
n- ons.
t»; The following deposition of capt. Story,
ot made before col. John Mitchell, dates con
u- cifely their fraternal a£ts after having poffef
le fion of the Aracabeffa.
Iy Jonathan Story, mafler of the flip Araca
er beffa, of London,
ife Depofeth, lhat on his voyage from JV
> a rriaica, loaded with sugar and rum, bound
Jr- for London, He frtet with severe gales of
on wind, by which he loft his main and mizen
ch mad, and sprung a leak ; that being in great
distress off the harbour of Charleston, the
Bricilh consul, haying had information of ha
his situation, sent or seven men to alfift th
him and enable him to get over the bar, gu
and up to Cliarlefton to repair the said vef- sri
fel ; that after several days lying at anchor , C:
off the bar, on Friday afternoon, the 13th ! th
of this instant, O&ober, he got over the m(
bar with the said (hip, and came to anchor th
i« Five Fathom Hole, ir. the harbour of ha
Charleston afore said.; the wind being con- tin
j trary he could not proceed up to the city ; wi
that on Monday evening, the 16th of the frc
said month, about fun-down, he saw a small ex
armed schooner come over the bar, and foi
| come to anchor to the N. N. W. of said wi
i (hip, but (hewed no colours ; that immedi- j in
i ately after, the said armed schooner weigh- . pi;
ed anchor, and came close up under their ; vie
(larboard quarter, came to anchor, and or- ho
dered him to hoist out his boat ; but on hit ch
answering his boat was ftdved, they sent n3
■ their boat with an officer and four or five alt
j armed men, with pistols and cutlasses, took Cc
1 forcible poffeflion of said (hip Aracabeffa, m;
! ordered the deponent, with liis papers, on ' ly
' board the said schooner, and carried him mt
: and one man on board, and sent the boat !
with four or five armed men on board the 2(j
said (hip ; that whi?n he got on board he fcl
perceived two carriage-guns, but the small M
1 arms were concealed from hrtn ; that he a(k- as;
]ed the name of the said schooner and the ve
; captain's, but they refufed to inform him ; wi
• one of the men said (lie carae from Cape th
" Francois, and was a Frencl} privateer : that flu
'as soon as the boat went the second time T
I with men on board, he saw them begin to pc
plunder the vessel and cargo, and they eon- de
tinued to do so till eight o'clock on Tuef- P
day morning ; that they brought as much an
1 rum and sugar of the cargo, and the rig- te
i g"'g and fails of the vessel, as they could tit
J (low in the said privateer; that at nine di
I o'clock they cut the cables of the 'aid lit
(hip Aracabeffa, and set her on fire in four lit
several places, viz. fore, main and after ; th
hatchway, and io the gun room ; the (hip j fe
then drifted on the "breakers near the ' fc
after which the captain ojf the said privateer 111
told him he had fifty men on board, but tl
would not tell his or the yeflel's name, also ft
said that the captain of a British frigate had w
burned a privateer he commanded, in Hamp- 1
ton roads, and for that reason he burned the b
(hip, but could he have carried her off he tr
would have done it j. that the deponent re- n
ceivcd part of his clothes in a bag, and re- »
ccived no personal bad treatment himfelf or c
crew ; immediately after set ting fire to the tl
(hip the privateer weighed anchor, got over li
the bar, and went into Stono Inlet, and a
landed him with 15 men on the beach, being n
the whole number on board the (hip when t
taken at anchor in the harbour of Charles- a
ton, contrary to the laws of neutrality an 3" ii
of nations ; that they got to Mr. Taylor's, si
who treated them in a very kind and friend- f
!y manner. . t
a
In addition to the / faiSs dated in captain e
Story's affidavit, we have been informed by i
him that some of the privateerfmen were t
eitherEnglilh, Iri(h, or Americans as they c
spoke and understood the Engli(h language c
—that it was impossible to learn either the \
name of the privateer or the captain, or from j
whence (he came : (he was a fmaJl pilot boat \
Sf 25 or 30 tons, had two fix pounders t
mounted, and was said to have come from f
Cape Francois, which is not very credible, c
The seaman whowas firft carried on board •>
the privateer with capt. Storey, is one of
the men who was sent Yrom this city as ?n
aififtant, and informs that he saw on board
the privateer, a tall, thin man of a brown
complexion, whom be has frequently fcen
in this city, and who was ouce a pilot out 5
> of Savannah, at which place he now has a
wife. 1
Mr. Minot who went down in a schooner
to lighten the (hip, was also on board when ,
: she was taken, and fays that he faw'there 4 (
■ or 5 men whom he knew before in this city,
! particularly the pilot above-mentioned, for (
whom he wrote a letter to his wife, while on (
!. board the privateer and proaiifed to forward
- it, but afterwards loft it and a free
5 fellow of this city, and a runway negro of (
Mr. Hornbeckt. ,
Turner the pilot who was unfortunately |
. on board the (hip when taken, has been de
: tained on board the privateer ; at least there
■ is not yet any account of his'having been
1 put ashore.
The boats which were sent down yefter
. day to fee if any of the Jliip's cargo could
be saved, returned with the accounts of her
gone entirely to pieces and that nothing
could be recovered.
C jtlgjjp—— Ifj Hi ■■ ■ "''.H H——l
By this day's Mail.
n
a BALTIMORE, November 3.
'- In the Miraculous Pitcher, arrived from
n Cape Francois, Mr. Jacob W. Giles, of
C thes city came passenger, from whom we
n received the following :
h Arrived at the Cape on the 12 th day of
i- from Gonaives, a port within the
ie bite of Leogane, after eroding the moun
ts tains of St. Domingo : when Mr. G. left
Id Gonaives, there were little or no business to
£- be done, on account of the market being
:d glutted, from the number of American vef
>e fels, tound to English, Spanish or French
>y ports, taken by French and Spanish cruis
e- ers, brought into the above port, and declar
er ed good prires. Mr. G. during his (lay of
:i- fourteen days at Gonaives, was daily a wit
ness to the sale of American vefftls and car
y> goes, eight out of ten of whom were taken
n- bound to French ports ; he heard wth pain
if- the sale of those vessels, the day previous,
announced to the town by the public cryer ;
the pretext for condemning those vessels is
■a- a want of papers, which the captains of pri
vateers take care to" destroy the instant they
[J- b'card a vessel. During his day at the
nd Cape, the brig Sophia, capt. Baily, arrived
of there from Porto Rico—(he is a brig in the
:en fcrvice of the United States, sent out to
sat the Weft-Indies to aflift our poor unfortu
•be r.tte countrymen, a number of Whom, after
• having had their vessels tafcen from them,
' the captain informed Mr. G. he found lan
guishing in jails, and without money or S!<
friends : on capt. Baily's arrival at the
Cap*', he immediately made application to Sn
the French commiflioners, Pascal and Ray
mond, for the state of AtVn-rican seamen at Br
the Cape ; capt; B. told Mr. G. that after Sc
having made known to the above citizens Sic
the purport of his million, they treated him
with the ntmoft ;nfolencc and contempt,
from which treatment he had vary little .to Ba
expeft ; he intended to fail in a few days' Sit
for St. Jago in Cuba. An immediate war
with America, was viTy generally spoken of
in St. Domingo, when Mr. G. left that Sic
place, and from the-conduft of every indi
vidual, either in or out of office, the most
hostile in tcntions were'eafily difctrned. The Ri
change in their corr.miffioners, from Santho- i6tl
n3x to Pascal and Raymond, has made 110 ("d
alteration in favor of the United States. the
Commodore Barney's Vefignation of his com- o
mand, under the French Republic, was hour- ult
ly expe&cd, being disgusted with the treat- wi
ment of Americans. t in
Mr. J. W. Giles left this place on the he
29th August, bound to Gonaives, 'in the
fchiy Somerset, capt. Stevens; the mate, he
Mr. Defhield, died with the yellow fever,
after having been five days at sea ; the abo'ie CI
vessel experienced a most dreadful gale of*
wind in the latitude of Bermudas; fhemadc L
the Weft Caycoson the 19th' Sept. where th
(lie wa3 boarded by the Briliih frigate
Thames, and although bound for a French
port, permitted to depart without one hour's
detention ; (he was again boarded by the
Pel 1 an Br'tifh f!o >p of war, of the Mole,
and treated as before. The Somerset's wa- w:
ter being spoiled on the paflage, the capt. of 2C
the (loop supplied him with good water ; di
during the examination of our papers, the ns
lieutenant informed Mr. Giles, that the Pe- lc
lican had had a very severe engagement with df
I the French armed brig the Trompeufe, a la
I few days before, they were of the lame m
' force, which lafled one hour and twenty mi- re
[ nutes, at which time the French brig, from w
the quantity of {hot received in her hull, lo
funk. The Somerset, on aceojut of head |Ol
winds, was d«tained fix -days in the Bite of 2<
Leogane—(he was boarded off the Platform IS
by two brigand boats, under French com- tl
millions ; those boats Mr. G informs, were K
manned by not less than fifty pirates, black, f{
white and yellow, not one of whom could be i
compared, with refpeft to appearance, with
tht word of our wheel-barrow men , the on- le
ly arms 011 board these boats were, in one
a small swivel, and in the other an old rusty t<
musket ; they all however, wore daggers in
their belts ; we could hear them coming at
a great distance, the noise of their oars keep- n
ing concert with the most savage yell; their
firft salutation was a (hot immediately at us I
from their swivel, and the words, " heave I
too you damned rascals j" when they came <
along fide, they all boarded the schooner,
entered the cabin, and began eating, drink
ing, destroying and Healing every thing
they could lay their fingers on ; mothing
could bear a stronger resemblance to a feaft
of savage canibals, than the one Mr. G.
was then witness to ; they kept forcible
poffeflion of the fcheoner for 12 hours, after
which time, having destroyed almost every
thing, and fearing a visit from the Britifli
from the Mole, they left us to continue
our course to Gonaives.
PHILADELPHIA,
MONDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 6.
Thevßoard of Health on the 1 3th Octo
ber, advised their fellow citizens to employ
proper per lons to cleanfc their houses, pre- j
vious to the return of their familiei to the
■ city. <
• This advice the Board fear has not naet j
that general attention that the importance
1 of the objeft required.
1 ' The infpe&ors hope they will, therefore
be excufcd for a<jaiu inapreffing the minds
' of their fellow citieens with the necessity »f ,
cleansing their houses, beds, bedding and
' clothing, ufedby the sick during the late
prevailing'fever.-and the propriety of throw- 1
•* ing unflacked lime into the necessaries.
1 The public should also be cautious in the
purchase of bedding and clothing used by
• the sick.
Published by order of the Board*
r JNO. MILLER, jun. Chairman.
' Health Office, Nov. 3, 1797.
- Married]—On Saturday evening, by
the Rev. Dr. Blair, Mr. Francis Mar
koe, Merchant, toMifsSALLY Caldwell, 1
daughter of Samuel Caldwell, Esq. of this
city.
m '
A well has been recently dug in Boston,
c more than one thousand feet distant from
high water mark towards the channel, and
water obtained of the most excellent quality.
lc This well was dug about 25 feet in the com
n" men mode—from the bottom the earth was
ft bored with an augre about three inches in
to diameter to the .depth of 70 feet, when a
S spring was (truck ; the "aperture was secured
by inserting a wooden tube. Shtere, whe
ther good water might not be procured by
boring from the bottom of any well in which
ir " the water is at prcfent, bad?
of
it- GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
ir-
en PORT 0? PHILADELPHIA.
iin
IS, Arrived. hays.
r; Ship Sarah, Jarvis, Liverpool 72
is Sally Butler, Chifholm, St. Mary's 15
ri- Old Tom, Heron. Wilmington, D
ey Henrietta, Robinson, Paffamaquody—
he ' Harmony, Smith, Bordeaux, via
e d . Wilmington
he Brig Anna, Maffit, Gu daloupe 23
to Sch. Sally, Stoddard, Boston 12
tu- j Bctfey, Justice, Charleston 9
ter J Diana, Weldon, f N. Carolina 13
Abigail,, Saltcii, do. -a
~ Ranger, Warren, Paflamaqnot'y jo
Sloop Woden, Ghitc- N. Carolina 4
Arrived at the fort the fchr. Phoebe,
Smith, 23 days from C. N. Mole.
CLEARED.,
Brig Molly, Jones, Perth Air,hoy
Sch. Amy, Culhing, Cape Francois
Sloop Rainbow, M'Nott, Halifax, N. S.
New-Tori, Nov. 4.
.ARRIVED. DAY S
Barque Palla r , Barker, Hull 75
Sloop Hannah, , Peter/burph, V.
Two Sifters, Dennis, Noif lk 3
Sloop.Dependence,Kenny, Str.Domings 32
Betsey, Elkins, Alexandria 8
Captain Schookley,' of the sloop Mill
River, from New Providence, left there the
6th ult. {hip Asia, Yard, of this port,
{dearcd with a salvage of one sixth,) and
the fchooncr Betsey Hollon, Me Jlin of this
ort, to fail next day for Georgia.—.lsth
ult. spoke the said schooner, in a gale of
wind, and both veflels put into St. Mary's
in distress, the Betsey Hollon having sprung
her main-mast and fore-top malt.
Vbe brig Weft Indian, Charlton, from
bence, has arrived fafe at C. N. Mole.
The brig Packet, Strong, was to leave
Chatlefton for this port, the 29th nit.
The fiiip Sarah, capta'n Jarvis, left at t
Liverpool for this port, the 24th of August,
the following vtflels;
Ship Prosperity, Craig, to fail in 2 days.
Diami, Pile, do. 8 to,
Peggy, Elliott, do. do.
Brig Diamond, Eaftbnrn, discharging.
Ocli/ber 9th lat. 40, 45, long. 59,46,
was boarded by a French National (hip of
20 guns and after examination, politely
difmifled—capt. jarvis, could not learn her
'iair.c or dellination —14th lat. 59, 35,
long. 58, spoke a Swedilh brig, out 10
days from Baltimore to Bremen—fame day
; lat. 38, 33, long. 69, fpoki; the mj> A
raiablc, Tillinghaft, out 73 days from Hav
re, bound to this port, Ihort of ptovifions,
which capt. I. fuppl'ed—lßth, lat. 36, lo»
loi.g. 71, spoke the ft? o n?r IV ai y, Croicier,
out 46 day* from Guernsey to Virginia—
20th, lat. 36 spoke a b; ig Out 4 days from
New London to GuadaLupe—26th, ofF
the Capes of Virginia, spoke the Industry,
Rudd, from London to Norfolk—2jth,
spoke the brig Philip, out 2 days from New-
ork, for the Welt Indies.
Capt. Kenny, of the foop Dependence,
left St. Domingo the 2d ult.
Brig Mal.bir, Da Costa, of this port
to fail in 4 days.
Schr. Ann, Hall, ditto, difiharginj;.
Sally, Hughes, ditto, for Jacque*
mel.
On the i'sth ult. spoke the United State*
Brig Sophia, Capt. Maley, boun:i to Cape.
Francois—all well;
For Sale by the Subicriber,
White Plattillas
Brown Hollands
White Sicetingg
Dowlafles
Sili-fu burdered Handkerchiefs
Striped SUmoufes
PUck Ribbons, No. 3 and 4
G'tifs Tumblers, and Looking Glafles, in
in cases, &c. &r.
George Pennock.
nowynber 6. eod_\w
All Ferfons who are iridebflEfi to
the estate of William Hstsham, fen. o Phila
delphia, deceased, are reijuefted lo make speedy
payment; and those who have any dem4nds a
gaind said eftste, will please to present them, pro
perly attested, to the fubferibers.
William Heyjham, "J
Robert Heyjham. >- Executors.
Francis Bonvcs Sayre, J
novembtr 6. ?a*v/w
Five years old Madeira Wine,
OF the very fifft quality, in pipes, lihds. and
quarter caflts, just Itndc' frnmthe (hip Edward,
from Madeira, and for fsle by
JOHN CRAIG,
No. li, Dock-street.
WHO HAS FOR CHARTER,
■ CHARLOTTE,
r Burthen a'.out MOO barrels,
jnrt hove down and put in com
plete order, and now rtady to ree< ive a cargo.
' A lfc, Ft SALE or CHARTER,
; jo s e"p ik us,
Burthen about 1800 barrels.
'>■ lawtf-
A Negro Man.
"IVOR SALE, the unexpired time (four years)
.L of a stout, liealthy, a&ive N--gro Man. He
>' is by trade a Cooper, v. as brought up when a boy
to the farming Vuf:nefs,isa good ploughman, un
derflandsthe care indmanagement of horses, and
'lis a good driver He has lately been employed in
painting a new house a»d paints well—he is good
tempered, and believed to be very honest, fold part
ly for want of employ, but mors for Icing addift
i» ed to liquor—For term* apply to No. 14, Dock
-a street, near Spruce street.
Nov. 6. tf
Drawing & Painting Academy,
No. 63, Walnur-ftreet.
JAMES COX,
ln -*-* ASPECT FULLY informs his friends and the
a IV -generous public, that his academy opens this
•d day. November the 6th. . .
e- Hours of tuition lor ladies from 7, till 4>n the
, y afternoon, and ia Ihe evening from 6 tiU 8 for
;h h; , co ]i ec abn of copies a va
riety of fine views, &c drawn from nature during
_ hii obfence from the city:
• All ki/ids of colours prepared, and every article
'used in the different branches of drawing and
painting, fold on rqaforubie terms.
Terms of Tuition, Six Dr.Lars and J Lalf pSr
''• °' 1 'A'morning daft for grown hdies, frrom 11 till
72 " °' clac,t - d3t - n ° V ' -
Young, Hyson »
loado.of Hylon,
23 the fubferiber, corner of Second and- me
12 ftrect - C.Baiglt.
1 a novembtr 6. -To be Sold at Public Vendue, I
(If not before dlfpufed of at prrcCtlt sale) |
f\ M Friday, (he i\- p . of IDecctnbcr next, at fix
v_y oVI'-.ck i". ihs evening, at the MercharUs , <J*of-
Hyu!e r in Phiiadeiphi^. Forty Thailand Nine
Hundred and Thirty Nii»e acres .cf LAND,
rn-vv or hie ii» the Counry ol and Com
monwea'Mh of Pennfylvaaia, and <n ihe w?ters of
F'efh and Wheel tog Creeks and Ten Mile Run.—
Thi-fe Ljv.Hs are ferii e and well timbered, and were
parcji»t®ed early in except 3700 acres ortherca
b' us, which were patented in »7Q2. One fourth
of i!v purchase money to be paid at the time of faie,
so- the residue a credit of one, two and t! j rce tnonthi,
will he given, on interest and good feturity.
6. 3^wrS
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not before difpofedcf at private sale)
ON Friday, the iint' day of December, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Cn£!c *
Woufe- in P'niladtlphta, Twentv Six 'i'Houfand Se
van flu >dred and Eighty acres of LAND, the
S'are of >Jcw.Yoik, be: wen the north'-rr. bounds
or Pen nfy I van 1 a and the c u ; qut'ian"a, ob ws or late, ,
in the of Hamdenand Warren, and conn- j
ty of Montgomery One loarih of the p• >ckafe
money is s o be paid at the time of f-ile ; for *t»e le
fi<itfe a credit of two,anJ three month* will be
gi Vf*o, on mured and good security. i l
6. !
—, i _
Pkale's Museum: i
valuable repository of the works of Na
i. turc, so well calculated to delight the mind
and enlarge phe undcrllandtng, is op ned daily, as
uJ'ual. It rtands in an airy and healthy situation, .
and free from the epidemic that at prejfent afllida
the city; it may, therefore, be frequented with 1
the great eft a
As ail Amur ment, the fludy of Nature is the v
rjioft rational and pleating : as a Scence, the most
f»b!ime and inflruilive. It elevates the mind and
ex)).Tnds the .heart. They j
si IVhrtt Nature* 1 works iati charm, icitb God timfel/
" Hold cr,nverfe
Many interring additions have lately been '
made to this Muftuni : at:d the feathered tribe, 1
cortairing a variety of the most rare and beautiful C
fubjc<sls, s now very advantageously arranged, ti
Waxen Figures, of Men large as, life (some of them S
carts from nature) are here drefied in their proper u
habit-, and placed ;n attitude* arafleriilic of their
r fpeiilive nations. Here may be foen the North- ft
American Savage,and the lavage of South-Ameri- u
ca—a. ial-oring Chinese, and the Chinese Gentle- li
man—t!-e African, and the Kamtfchadale— p
with Natives of the Bpath Sea I Hands. The
imnunf: variety and inttrefling diversity which
this Museum offer,s to the view, may be seen but
•annot be d fcribV with full efTtiA.
gj* Price only l-4th of a dollar. '
2'i Taw
M OTIC E.
ALL person- indebted to the eflate of To "N
Striker, late of Tinnecum Tewnfhip,
Buck's County, are requeued to pay off their
Ttfpeilive ciebts ; and those having any de
mands faid eflate, are defiled to bring in
tiieir-srcoums, to
JOSEPH CHAMBERLAIN, ) Execu
t PALLET PIiEfALT, J tors. r
Sept. 2 s !. ta«'4w
Davis's Law Book Store,
No, 319, High-Street.
GEORGE DAVIS, []
T-v busied for some time past in prcpara- h
tions for removing iuto his profent house, iws j bt
been under theneceifity of joftp< ninguntil this day lit
informing the-gentlcmen 01 the Bar generally thro' ce
the Hatted States, that fpring importation of etc
law hooks is now arranged and ready for sale, on el,
terms that he trulls will entitle him to the like pre- ar
freence he has experienced for ievaral years part. lej
Catalogues, oombining the most varied collec
tion ever imported i/:to this country, are printed fa'
and will he delivered on application. fei
June 27. law 6w la
City Comrmjfioners'' OJJice,
June a, 1797.
IN pursuance of an ordinance from the ielefl
and common councils, passed the aid day of ht
May lafl, appointing the city COTTimiCtoi.eri, u
and preferibing their duties, feiSion 9th,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
That the city is divided into five ditlriifls, T
each to be under the fuperintendance of one of v
■the city commiJTieners, whoisto be individually ha
relponfible for the cleanliness of the fame, and fir
are as follow. th
Driftrifl No. I. Fiyjm the south Cde of Ce- nv
dar-ftrcet, to the north fide of Sprtice-flreet, uii- cai
rthe superintendence of Nathan Boys. _
a. From the north fid-; cf Spruce-llreer, to
thenorth fide of Walnut-Ilreet,under the super
intendence of Hugh Roberts.
3. From the north fide of Wilnut to thefouth
fide of liigh-ftreet, under the superintendence of _
Jofcph Claypoole. L,,
4. From the north fide of to the -
north fid.-of Mulberry street, tir.dw-thefllpcr
inttmlence of William Moulder.
5. Fwiwrire north (ideof Mulberry street to
the north fide of Vine-Ilreet, under the luper- r *l"
intendence of Nicholas Hicks. I
The cleaningof High-llreet to be in com«on. fiili
A dated meeting of the city corrm:fT:on- Wi
ers is held at the Old Court House, in High- Plo
street, every Tuesday evening at 5 o'clock. as '
July f4. eoim i e f
" Dei
Stands for Draymen, &?V. td
In purjuanec of an O'cTmance from tbeSelrH and '
Common Councils,bearing date the ltd day of
April, 1797, providing for the appointmerU of 'j
City CommiJJioners, c. Sect, the 15th.
THE following pUrrs are fixed upon by the f
said City Commiflioners for Stands fcr
DrayVnen ar.d their Horses. ur
In Vine-llreet, eastward of Front-street, on 1
both fiJcS. p u (
Saffafras, High,Chefnut and Walnut-fttreets, t h:<
eastward of Front-ftreet,«n the no/th fide only. Me
Mulberry-street, south fide from Front to to j
Third-street. ten
Front-street, east fide from Vine-street to lie 4
Elfrith's alley. I
Front-street, from opposite to Black Horse al- wit
ley to Hamilton's (lores, east fide. ren
Water-street, weft fide from the north end of 'ho
Stomper's or Moorr's stores to Pine-street.
Penu-ftreet from Pine to Ce Jar-flreet, weft Gec
fide.
Drawbridge, north fide, eaflof Front-street, ° n
Spruce, Pine and South streets, e jft of Froat .! r
street, south f'de.
Dock-street, between VValnut-ftreet and the <
stone croflings, east fide, opposite George I V'
Oskley's. °'
Second-flreet, between SafTjfras and Vine „„,i
ftrects, weft fide. cvc ,
Fifth-ftreet, east fide froqi Chefnut to Mul- L an
berry fU'eets. _ (ijy,
Saffafras-lircet, from Third to Fourth-flrcet,
e?ft fide. j
No dray or horse to stand within ten feet of jj
any pump. houi
STAXDS FOR HACKNET COACHES. Tue
Pine-street, north fide from Fourth to Fifth cf cr)
streets. Mr .
Fifth-ftrtet, between Chefnut and Walnut day
streets, wed. trick
Branch street, nortlv fide, between Third and from
Fourth streets. f:ime
July 14. . niw&fim I phia.
2, I LAW BOOHS,
) ! Latcfl London and Dublin Euitior.s.
H. sis P. RICE, Book/tilers,
rj nr Nt>. i£, South Secotjd, and No. 50, Market ilreet;
tfD f TAVE ijuft received by the lite arrivals from
i. A London and Dublin, their fprirsg importa
s 0 j: tion, confiftijVgof a variety of the lataft ana rami
# approved 1 aw Books, which, added to those alrea
>cre dy on hand, form sr. he modextenfive eolle&ionev
,ta - cr offered for fa 1 c irt this country. They theiefore
irth heg leave to notice, that from the nature of their
lie, conne&icnsin Dubiin, they a*c enabled tp fell Irish
Lhi, editions (arthey have hitherto done) at the very
iovvefl prices- The following are among the tatcifc
S publications.
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, %
PeaWs Cases at Nisi Prius ; Ridgeway's Reverts
j in the eime of Lord Hardwicke ; Floyer's Procters
Pra&ice in the F.ccfefiaftical Courts; Barton's
fte* 1 reutiTe 011 a Suit in Equity ; Tidd'a Practice of
?e- Court of King's Bench in Personal A&ionS* *
the parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
ids on Use* ; tuodcrn Rcport»> l% vols. London edi-
Mr, ; tion.
mi- | H. and P. "Rid* cxpe& f» receive by the fifil ar
afe j rival from New-York the 6th v6l. complete of
Durnford and Rail's Reports,,the ad part of Gil
"c bert's (.aw of Evidence by Loft, and a number of.
j new publications.
* j June 25.
| The Hiitory of PenntVTvania,
[a _ By ROBERT PROUtf,
r ]j TS now in the press, and will be publifhej,
aj A with all convenient expedition, by Z>-CHA
>n, £ r * H Poulson, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet,
its fhiladelp'ria, whs-re fukferiptions will continue
th to received, ind at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed- propyls, until the
he work is ready for the fubferihers.
>fl
ld THIS DAY"WAS PUBLISHED, ~
And for sale by THOMAS BOBSO.V, at the
'J | Stone Ho'jfe. No. 4!, south Second Itreet,
«| EVENINGS at HOM E ;
e, OR, THE JUVENILE BUBGHT OPENED,
ul Consisting of a variety of Miscellaneous Pieces for
d the iuftra&ion and amusement of YOUNG PER
m SONS— SixVolunieshandfomely printednnd bound
=r up i-.i two volumes, price Two Dollars,
ir 7ha variety and excellence of these pieces are
1- such, that the book needs, only be known to br
i- universally esteemed one ot the mod valuable pub
s' Jications th t can be put into the hands cf young
p«rfons.
ic " Delightful task to rear the tender thought,
h To teach the young jd-a how to (hoot,
it To poor frefc inltrucllon o'er the mind,
To breathe th' enlivening fpirit,and to fix
The generous puryofe in the glowing breast."
Thomson.
August J4. mwf4W
N > THIS D YIS PUBLISHED,
»> By THOMAS DOBSON, at tlu Stone Houf«,
lr , No. 41, south Second street,
n " Letters and Conversations,
Between fevtral Voting Ladies, on Improving and i»-
j. terelling fubjeAs.
Translated from tlae Dutch of Madam, d; Camion
with alterations and improvements,
Printed mJim paper, and neatly baund,
Price ene dollar.
AMIDST the tide of modern Romances, painting
tales <sf nxtraordinary diflrefs, or of desperate or
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," and
■" which it would he tor the honor of young ladies to
s j bcigiirant of, this little book comes forward to so
y licit notice, where in a variety cf incidents, not cx
-1 ceeding the bounds of real life, the proper, b 'caHf2
f i/egart and natural dignity and importance of thu Female
1 cbnraShr is exhi ited in an int-relting point of view,
- and prt;L'nu examples of real *od attainable excel ■
lencc.
The pahliftier wasfoinuch pleased with the pern
-1 sal, that he was prrtuaded he (hould do a pleasing
service to the community by loading ir in a circu
_ lation. August 24 —rtv.v 4W
Acl laying Duties on Stamped Vellum
Parchment and Paper.
' A FEW copies of the above ait may be had aj
he Oflicc of the (5 iz»tte»f the United States, Nc.
1 If 9, Chefnut.fl.rect. Jolv 19.
The Partnership,
UNDER the linn ol FREE.\IaN 13* Company,
is difloived by mutual corfent. All persons •
■ having any i!emand4 ag iinS ( tkefaid House are de- j
I fired to render 'he fa:re to T. B. Freeman : and
those indebted to the House arc desired to make pay
ment to him—By whom bafiiicfs will in t'ature be
carriei on,at hisdtore, No. J9,South Front-street.
August J eodyv
Richard and James Potter
HAVE removed their Counting House to No.
45, South Fifth-ftroet.
"gust %■ w&f6t
Lanca/ter, Harrijburgb Carlijle }
Sidtppenjburg and Sunbtfrjy
STAGES.
THE public are requtftea to take notice, that ,
the partnership which h«s fer some lime fub
fiiled bttwen:* Mathias Slough of Lancaster, and
WillLim.Oeer, is now difTolved; bat, not as M.
Slough infinu.itest# thepablic without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter oil the fu!>-
jea from M. Slough to W. Ueer, dated the 19th
December lalt. a recital of which is not now deem
ed neceflary. Auy gentleman who wiflies to be
more circumllantially informed of the merits of
this business, by applying to W. Geer may have
the perrfal of M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfedlly jnftifiabie, in attaching him
felf to any other perl'on in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf- 1
urg, or any pther place.
Now from the libejal and generous support the 1
public were pleased to confer on the firft effort in 3
this bufinef", v#illiam Geer, in conjun&ion with
Meflrs. Reily, Weed and Wi'mer, is determini'd 5
to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention anddifpatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can poilibly exert. t
The above company, who are amply provided tl
with carriages, horses, and every appurie taoce-to k
render the passage bSe and rommodious, inform
those wn-j wish ro patronize ami encourage the n
undertaking, that they can take their feats at b
George Weed's, the iign of the White Horse, e
Maiktt Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaftef, Harrifburg, t!
Carlisle and Shipp*nfbui'g. The fare as hith«r£o V
eftabliflied. ( 5
For the further accommodation of the public, fc
j a Stage will start every Wednesday from the house ti
of Samuel Elder, ta Harriibarg, arrive at Sun- fv
bury in NorthumberlaTid county, every Thursday, vi
and return from theoce and arrive at Harriffcurg tl
every Saturday, so that passengers deflined for L
Lancafteror Philadelphia, may proceed o« Mon- b.
days. h,
WILLIAM GEER. tl
Lancafler, Jan. if, 1797. b<
N. B. This l.ine et Stages starts from th«
house of William Fcrroc, in Lancaiier, on ewry B
Tuesday ai.'d Saturday morning at 6 o'alo.k, or
ceeding td the westward; and from the lioufo of 01
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrilburg every Wednes
day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick. Cochran's in Shipptnlburg, and returns U
from thence on every Th. rfday : performing the {»
fime routine daily as in its tour from Philadcl- Sin
■phia. niiVf
11
T.I;OMAS HERMAN Lcupcer,
North tfutji fluent, cornetof North aUcy, No. 34,
HAS FOR,* SALK,
[fc EXCELLENT red bourdeaux Wine in cases and
; ' l»nxes, fix years old
" Wine iiieaiks
Tic !;lAnl>u%*s
llr Rufiia Sail Ckths >
d ' Raveus lJuck
v " 6ag'Lin
£ Diaper and Table Cloth
Empty
j Lemmofe Gernjan Cloth
■■n afTortiuefctof black coloured Ribbons
Fme German Lacei
A bout twelve tons Ruflia cleaiLHemp
ts Clover .Seed . v
Italian soap, in small boxes, for family ufj
Window Glafg Aug 29.—2* tv
1 Excellent Bmsrdeaux Brandy
Ditto ■ ciirf.. Claret in cases
I_ , fift tor Sile by
r . Rundlc & Leech.
lawtf
'* f Will be Landed,
From oa board the (hip Attive, Capt. Blair,from
Hambutglj*
_ 20 bales white Rufiia clean Hemp
2 calks Clover Seed
For Sale by
!, Thomas Herman Leuffer,
North Fifth ft*e<t, No. 24.
, Tune 2ft $
' TO BE SOLD,
c And immediate poffejjion given,
ACcnvenient well iiuiihed f,rick Tenement,
with a cook house and other out houses, fitu
atcd ina pleasant part of the borough of Wiiming-
ton, in the State of Delaware—The lot of ground
= has forty feet front on West-street, slid extends
through the square to PallurL-ftreet, on which is
ercifled a liable and carriage honfe.
ALLEN M'LANE.
r WilmingtM, Aug. 50.
j Imported in the flrip Pigou,
And for fait by John Morton, No. u6, South
. Front-street,
Hyson
Hyson Skin (™.»
j Young Hyson (
Irrrgjrijl J
April ao. sots
Fisr sale or to be let on ground
rent,
A valuable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-e»Acorner of Wal
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State-
Hcul'e I'quare This lot 43 fifty-one feet front
on Walnut llrect, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth llreet ; ther« are at '
prefect tw« small two story brick houses, and a
number of l'mall tenements thereon.
Al'o, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
W itfi convenient (lores, wharf, &'c, situate on
Water-street, between Mulberry and Saflafras
streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the ;
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
ave the convenience of a public alley adjoining
on the north fide, and are a very desirable situa
tion for a merchant, flour factor,or others who
may have orcafion for storage of poods. This
property will be fold on very reasonable torms
for calh. For further information apply to the
pi inter.
July 31, % m&wtf
TO BE SOLD,
dmi pofftflion given immediately 9
A LARGE cyno brick Houfe,handfomely
situated in Princeton. Thfte are four rooms
and a large entry on each floor,'and five rooms in
the garret, a range of back buildings 51 feet in
length, and a piazza of 57 feet. J here is a pump
j in the yard, an excelleut kitchen garden, at the
farther end of which are a carriage house and two
oaMet, one of which is new, 44 feet long, with
flails in the twcf stables for 27 horses. The heal
» thinefs and pleafantnef* ot its Gtuation, and the
, number ©f genteel and agreeable families in and
' near the towtt", render it a desirable rctreeat for a
; gentleman from the city, l'he commodioufnefs of
the house, its central po&tion, and the largeness of
"•he stables, make it every way fuitablefcratavcrn,for
which it ha* always been confiderd as a capital
fcuid. Inquire on the prem fes, of
ISAAC 6NOWDEN.
Princeton, Ang. 2j. 20—diw2*wtf
t _i : -
City of Washington.
SCHEME
Of (Tie Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificent iwelling-boufc ao,oco dollars,
it ealh 30,000, are 50,00..
1 ditto 15,b00 & caflj 35,00® 4o,oo«
I ditttv^s,ooo l & cast 1.5,000 30,000
I ditto ito,poo"A calh 10,000 ao,ooo
I ditto 5,000 & caih 5,000 10,000
» ditto 5,000 & cSfft 5,000 10,600
1 cast prize of 10,000
% do. s,A«rt each,ars • 10,000
13 (Jo. I,oil ) - - 10,OO'
»o do. 500 - - io,onn
00 do. imo 1 - - 10,000
»ij® do. 50 - - io,oco
400 do. 15 - 10,000
1.900 do. to - ao,ooo
15,00® do. 10 - *59,000
16,739 fri2cs.
33,361 Rlankt.
50,000 Ticket*, at Eight I)ollar», 400,000
N. D. TofavpUr rhofe who may tafcc a quan- ■
tity of Tickets,the'rrrae of 4(5,000 dollars will be
the l»»t drawn ticket, and the 30,000 last
kutoNa :
And approrednotts, securing payment in either
mon«y or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
he received for any number not lefsthan 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery 1 will afford an elagant specimen ef
c!mprivate buildings to be ercAed in the City of
Wafliiiipton—Two beautiful delig.es ire already
(el'ibed for the entire fronts on two As thepablir |
squares; frOtn these arawiflg! it ispropofed totrefl |
twoeentrJand'our'cTvi'erbuildings asfoonaspof- (
fibleafter ttts lottery is fold, nud to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, ic
the manner defcrifced in the fchenie for the Hotel
Lottery. A rtett deduction of five per cent, will
be made to defray the:neceff»ry expenses of prim
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National'Univerlity, to '
be erected within the city of Walhington. c
The real fecuritiesgiven for Ihe payment of th<
Briies, are held by the President and two Diredl
ors.of the Bank of Columbia, and are Valuc4_at ,
more than half the atnount of the lottery.
SAMUEL ELODGET.
„§ t , Tickets may be tad at the Bank of Colum- ]
Ui ; cf James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter
Oilman, Eoftou : of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
bnd of Richard Wilis, Cooper'. Ferry ,
jnwf
This I>ay Publifl-ied,
, Aadto be fold by W11.1,1"A.\1 YOU KG, aorncr of
Second a-nd Giiefnrit streets,
d Price 3-§ths of a D?Uu-r,
Obprvations on certain Documents
Contained ia No. V and VI of
" Thi Hi story of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In which th«' cm aror op SPECULATIOM against
ALEXANDER. HAMILTON,
Late tiECaiiTARV c! the Treasury, is FOLLY
R£ftJTED.
WRITTEN BY himself,
TWs publication presents a ccncife il?.tement
cf the base means pnuftifed by the Jacobins of the
United btatcs to, asperse the charadcrsof t.hpfe
arc corifj.icredai l;oflile to their disor
ganizing fcht'mes. It a4fo contains the cor
refpondencc between Mr. Hami(ton and Messrs.
Monroe, Myhlenh'ifrgh c.nd on the sub-
of the alorefaid, -and a ferte» of let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife, to Mr Ha
milton, proving b'ey6nd'the poflibiiity of a doubt.,
that the conrtedipn bw tweet; him and Reynolds,
was the rel'ult of a daring conspiracy cu rb.e part
- of 'the latter and hi.< associates to extort money.
A discount of one third from retail price
j wil lbe made in favor ot whole sale purchaf-rs for
cash. Orders to be addrefTed t»> Mr Yoor>o.
Augufl 15, '
No. 188.
DiflriS of Peni'Jylvania, to <wit :
, L s \ J3 E li 1 RKMIvMBERhn, thai on the
-D twenty sixth day of July, in the twen
ty second year of the independence of the United
States of America, John Penno, of the said dtf
tri<sl,hath depoCted in this office the title of a bock,
thv! right whereof he claims as proprietor, ia the
, words following, to wit: —
" OM'ervations on certain documents contained
" in No. V. and VI. of "The Hiilory of the Unit
l " ed State? for the year if 96,'" in which tho charge
» " of fpcculation, againil Alexander Hamilton, late
» li Secretary of the Treasury, is fully refuted—
" Written by himfelf "
In conformity t® he a& of thcCong rofs of the
Ueited States, entituled, "An a<ft for tha encour
agement ot learning, by securing tb<? copies of
maps, charts and hooks to aurhor9 ar.<?
1 etorsof futh copies, during h« tiines therein'men
tioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk of the DJiriSl of Pc/irjylvaniti.
_July 27. w4 w
An elegant House in Arch Street.
TO be let and entered on immediately a large
and,ele,'Jut house at the Corner of Arch, and
Ninth Street. There are two drawing rooms
and one diniag room—the large!! -,s 31 feet by
16—and two are so conne<Sled hy folding doors
as to make but one. Also, five bed rooms, be
l:des 5 in the irarret, well finiihed for fervantj.
There are stables and a coach house, with evry
convenience for a fmaly. Enquire at No. 29,
in North Seventh llreet, or at No. 218, Arch
Street.
_Aug-. rt. 3aw3w.
William Blackburn,
LOTTERY and BROKER'S OFFICE
No. 64 south Second-?.reet.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 11, which
commanced drawing the 29th May* FOR
SALE. Ihe price of tiricets will rife in propor
tion a3 the dr iwing advances, particularly du ac
count of the five firft drawn tickets, prizes of
four thousand dollars each, on the lad day of
drawing.
Check Books kept for examination and register
ing, in the Canal, No. 2, City of Waflungtou, No. '
2, and Paterfon JLottories.
Also, tickets for sale in the Schuylkillbridge and j
Perk omen Bridge lotteries, which will begin j
drawing in thecourfeof the summer.
Thehufinefs of a Broker in all kinds of Stosk,
Bills, Notes, L*ndff, &c- See. tranfatfted with the
utmost a:tenkion.
June 2 j. tncVf
Erfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMI'BELL & Co.
No 40 South Secosd llreet,
TPrice 31 Cents]
A View of the Causes and Consequen
ces of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskins.'
May 1$ $
STATE TRIALS,
Sold b W.Young, Beokfeller, No. 5», South S«-
coild-Areer,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
CONtaiuing the impeachment, trial,and acqai:-
al of Francis Hopkinfsn, Judge of tlreCoart of
admiralty, and John Nicholfon, Comptroller Gqjir
era!—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, iti l>eSirds, t
dollars.
W. Young has for sale, a general aCortmentof
Book". Also, Stationary, retail and by the pack
eg«, wellafloited,and cflttlled to the drawback if
axparted. .
For Salej
That ivtHlnoivn place, called VAifDSOßifl's
ffu y,
ON Nethaminy creek, 18 miles from Phila
lattelphia, on the New York noil road,
containing 74 aores and 94perclrei. Upon the
premifesare a large two ftoryJlone house occu
pied as a tvern, and a good one story (tone kit
chen, a lar»e frame ftaMe with ig+itJ threshing
floor, and lome out buiiding»—alfo a well of
gond water, and an excellent ice Houf?. On
this j)!ace is a moH elegant lituation fora gentle
man s feat, commanding a view of the Nefham
iny to its juniStion wiih the Delawaoe, and thence
across to the Jersey (hore. It has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
For terms applv to the SaUfcribery
MORUECAI LEWIS.
May 24- atawtf.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MUS. GItOOMBRIDGE with much pleaf
ureand refpedl, returns b?r sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
file has received during four years refidenee in
Philadelphia ; and assures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, made a superior arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars.—Every branch of ufeful and polite
educatien is particularly atlenqed to by Mrs.
Groombridge and mafltrs excelling in their
refpeiSliveprofrffions. 1
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
Jims sth, 1797- Jimfrf
The is perfe>sUy healtky ; aEdma<*e ]
more agreeable by an extenfiv* garden and lot
of gruund adjoining the house.
fuj] Published,
to hc h;.d of Messrs. Dobi'on, Campbell,Rice, 1
Cr.ry, acd the other pricipal Booksellers in' fie
city,price one dollar, twmty-five cents,inbeards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, M. d.
Jun« so. *St
School Books and Stationary.
; i_ J
W. Y O UN G,
No. ?2, Second-street, corner of Chefnut-ftreet,
HAS now ready for sale, a very large afTort
mcnt of Engljh, French» Latin and Greek
SCHOOL BOOKS. Also, such elementary books
ok Science, as are generally read in th& academies
and colleges throughout the United States.
LATELY PUBLISHED,
Sheridan's Dictionary, the sixth edition, in on«
large vol. 8 vo price 3 dols.
Ditto, large ianio price 3 cfol. 75 «ts.
Ditto, con.mon, price 1 dol. 50 ct9.
■ All forts of drawing, packing, printing, and
; writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards Pafleboards,
flieath.ng and blotting Papers; panted Blanks,
blank Books, Wax, Wafers, and other articles, of
the best quality, used in the counting house, or
' public office.
Catalogues of a mlfcellaneous colle&ion of
BOOKS, S»i't2} tke price qI each affixed, to be had
by inquiring a above. Oil 14.. —3aw6w
\ Selling,
< By BENJAMIN DAVtES,
At h!s Bi'iok-'torf, Nt 68. Hieb-Street,
: The AMERICAN REPOSITORY
AND
ANNUAL REGISTERfo>. the UXIT ED ST A TES
FOR THE YEAR 1798
Containing complete and correct lilfs of the Execu
tive, 't and Judiciary
DEPARTMENTS of g O VEKN MENT,
j And a variety of ufeful tables, ntceifity to bfc
known in < very State of this Union.
Embellijhed with two bandfome Engravings,
One ot which is depi&ive of a menncho'y fcenc
] that occurred during, the American war.
[ The Philcidelphui, Alfwri, ani 1 vfLcrtan
MAIL STAGE.
T'HE proprietors leg ieave to inform the fi-llic, thai
they have eflablifbed a Stags between Philadelphia,
A'JiOii t Batflo, Hampton, Spiff'well, and Ilartbrt Fur
t j nace, 1 Fading Rioer flitting mill and the town of Tuck
> | e/ton, in Aeui-Jerfv, to go orce «i 'week. and are pi ovi*
y j ded ii itb good borfes, a comfcrtuble carriage, and a care
. fil driver, for the conveyance of the mai!, paffengen, end
. ; goods. Tie Stage will jlabt entry Thurfds.y, at IO
o c ock, A. .M. from Air Daniel Cooper*j* Ferry, and
lodge that nigbt at foci Bzdincs at Ecngacnming ; and
on on Friday at 6o\ 'ock, ?. M. arrive at C .lci/ £-
wns's, inlet per, in Tudcrlvit, dxfar\ -from • the city 54
miles, (from tie Atlantic 6, andfr withe. Fin ft Groufhg.
Pla:ns 7 wiles) where are good acso/h h<oduliont for tra
vellers, and where are comrnod'uus and fn fe pass ige boats
( prabided to convey paffc»gers to Chhi. liar-
I fingtan s house, on Tuckers Island, acjjorfining the At
lantic, where are good and a conveniiHt
place to bathe ; tbefportfmun xvboioijies to regale
' wttb J iivling andfjb'ng, may at tbrs phce be highly gra
i fifed there being at alrnrfl every fee fin tf the yedr fowl
j an^tn abundance.—The St-gc on its return, farts
from the a for efaid C. Evans's in Tucb-to';, evzry Tues
day, at 6 o 'clock, A. AI. Lreiifafis at fohn lioJ'mc s, at
IVadikg R:ver Bridge? lodge that night at long iteming/,
and at l 0 clock, P. AI. on ified.tefday, arrive at the
aforefasd Cooper s Ferry. It is presumed that ro route of
an c'jual distance iviH be less expcnfive, or furn jh the tra *
veller iwtb a, greater variety of ktaitfemerJ, cs be will
not only have a t> leaf ant fail to the atlant c from Tucker
ton, but have the euriefity of feeing % cn the read thither a
number of capital furnaces a«d forges, and one flitting
mill, in comploie order, and at work ; ge fletnen, too. who
are owners, cr factors, of any oj the ajorej'aid iron works,
are fulii.itcd to cnccurage and fuppurt this flags, {by wb cb
they can be so weII accqmrnoda cd j the continuance <f -which
will much depend on their aid. The rates of passengers
and baggage are as fllows : For a pajfenger jron the
efwefaid Da.iel Coopers Ferry to Tucker ton, including
14 lb. of baggage, Two Dollars ; for way pajfengers
per mile, Four Cents—l cO lb. of baggage ejtmlto apaf*
fentfr. Pof age of letteri, neivfiapers, &c. will be
agreeably to law.
A. B. The mail crcjfes from the Old Fe(fy.
THOMAS IVAKDLK b* Co.
Tuckerton, Sept. 28. Oil. c\—zawtf
Tiic Norfolk Mail STAGS;
THIS from th?: 6EORG& • avern,
at the comer of Setorni And Arch Streets, in
, Philadelphia, evtrj Turfday, Tburfday, and Satnr
day, at 3 o'clock, in the u oriimg ; arrives at !>o
ver the fkft day, at Snov/hiil the fece-ud day, nt
Northampton Court Koufc the third' day, and on
tbe mormng of the fourth day the'j aflengt-r* find
a fare and comfortable packet to coTivev them to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Norxliampton fexry>
every Tuefdiy, Thurf lay and Satut-day, and the
Stage from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
Mon.'ay, Wcdnefday and Friday ; Snow
Hill thefirft night, at Dover the ad »igh;,nnd ar
rives in Philadelphia iu the evening o< the third
day.
Ihediftanee on this route, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is So tniics less tf.ta 1 on any route
between those
Too cannot be said in favor of the road,
is most excellent indeed. Yhe proprietors
willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
paiTenger, who, after having performed tbrs route,
will fay that he ever traveHed in a stage for the fame
diftanee, so good a road in America.
An*i,ft if. dlift; cots.
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than any other in
the Qity—
OF rjRIOUS SIZES,
Ftom Bby 6t019 by 14,
By the single Box m Quantity, mjry\je had at the
flore of the Subscribers, corner oi' Arch and Front*.
Itreet,
' James C. & Samuel W. Fisher.
Riiladclphia, JuncQ, 17Q7.
Lately Publifhcd,
In one vol. 8 vo. (price one dcliar in bnnrds) foil!
fcy WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of Secondand
Chel'nut flreets,
A Colleftion of Papers on the ftibjeft of
Billiou-; Fevers, prevalent in the United
States for a few years past.
Compiled by NOJH H r li ESTER, jun.
Containing letters from Doißors Seaman, Smith,
Bucl, Taylor, Ramsay, Monfon, Reynolds, Mitch
ell,on contagion, &c. &•.
Sept. 15.
THE SUBSCRIBERS, "
ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GR.EE* LEAF*
HEREBY give notice, that they have dil'pofed
of the property assigned to them for the fecurxng
thebaymcnt of tht notes, acceptances, *ntl ei"
iloriemeits given hy I'dward Fox, for the ui'e
of the said Jainrs Gretnleaf; and the holders of
luth nqtet, arreptancts, and endori'ementt, are
hereby notifyed that the fuhferiber# will fettle
with them for the amount of jheir refpeflive
claims, both PRisciPAt and iNrfiti'sr, at
any time before the zoth day of o<fh>her next;
after which riav, the holder' n«t applying, will
be excluded, agrecibly to the term, of afiigii
rnent.
Application'! to be made at south-east corner
of Dork and Second ilreets (the I)6ek-ftreet
fide), between the hours of eleven and ©ne o'
»!ock every day, Sundays excepted.
Henry Pratt,
Tho. IV. Francis,
v *John Miller, Jun.
John Sjbley,
Jacob Baker,
Philadelphia, Au£t>ft 18, 1797, i