6a }tut of tijc Witiitm States AN© Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1606.]
SALES BV AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DR T GOODS.
Forenoon—Edward Fox, No. 46,
M nJn > south Front-street,
"" ' y i Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 65
(. South Front-ftrect.
C Forenoon—John Connelly, Old City
<r,..rA Auc&ion, No. 73 fout r h k'ront-ftreet.
a - v j Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
C 183 High-street.
<77, n S Forenoon—Edward Fo*.
j ourjuay J Afternoon—John Connelly.
P . , J Forenoon—William Shannon.
t rirtay Afternoon—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon —Piter Benl'on.
To be Sold at Public Auction,
Oa Saturday evening, Nov. 4, '97, at 8 o'clock,
at the Merchants' Cofios-houfe,
dols. cts.
1 Note drawn by James Greenleef
in favour of and endorsed by Edward
Fox, dated 9th August, 1796, due nth
O&ober lift, t 1.300
3 do. drawn by said James Green
leaf in 'avor of and endorsed by Ed
ward Fox dated Jth * uguft, 1796, at
4 months date, 1 payment doia. 2681
131 1681 14, and »68i 141 amount
together 8043 41
3 do do. of fame date, drawn and
endorsed asaforefaid, payable in eight
months, payment!, dole. 1693 7J each,
amount together 80SL1
3 do, do. of fame date, drawn and
endorsed as aforefaid, payable in 11
morths' ptyfttcatt, dols. 2693 75 each,
amount together 8,081 »J
91
I draft drawn by Robert Mo.-ris on
John Nitholfon,dated 28thMay, 1796,
at 11 months .5 ceo
j do. drawn as aforefaid, at two
years 5000
I do. drawn by John Nichol
fon, onßobert Mwris, dated »Bth
May, 1796, at 3) ears 5000
1 i*b. drawn as aforefaid, at 4
years- 5000
S; -1 20,000
The said drafts are fccured by (hares
in the North Amerif a Land Company
and endorsed by James Oreenleaf
r Note dated Boston, 18th May,
179?, drawn by Thomas Dawei, jun.
in favor of Thomas Gieenleaf, paya
ble lit January, 1798, endorsed by Da
niel Grecnleat, Henry Newman and
James Greenleaf 425®
- 1 do. dated Boston, 18th Nov.
jrawn by Daniel Greenleaf, in favour
of Thomas Dawes, jun payable ift Jan.
1798,endorfed by Thomas Greenleaf,
Henry Newman, and James Grettileaf 6500
3 Notes, dated Boston, 17th Nov.
1795, drawn by Benjamin Haikell, in
favour of James Greenleaf, payable ift
January, 1799, endorsed l-y said James
Greenleaf and Nahum Fay, do Is. 55 00
1500 —1000 8090
3 do. dated Boston, 17th Nov. 1795,
drawn and endorsed as aforefaid, paya-
blc ift Jjn. 1800, one payment, dob.
tioo, 5000, 4'oo Ij »oo
. One bond, Zachariali Cox to James Greenleaf,
and afiigned by him, dated th? lilt March, 179*'
in the sum of ten thousand dollars, conditioned lor
the conveyance of 25000 acres of Land, near the
town of Frederic* in Glyn county and state of
Georgia,the said bond iull due.
John Connelly, auctioneer.
OSt.ii.
To be Sold) by Public Vendue,
On Monday, the 13th day of November next,
at II e'clock inthc forenoon, at Ihe Ijttrdwel
ling plantation of Alexandi=r PoßTm,Efq.
deceilVd.in the Hundred and County of New-
Caftie,
All the Stock of the said Farm,
Confining <>f hoists fit for draught or saddle,
eolts, fat cattle, milch cows, calves, several
pairs of large and valuable oxen. iNeep and
hogs (all the horned rattle and fneep, being of
a very large arul fine breed ) and also carts, har
rows, plough*, and other farming utensils, to
gether with a variety of houfihnld furniture.
The conditions of Sale tfill be made known,
at the time and place aforefaid.
- Mary Porter, Admrx.
New Castle Hundred, State of ?
Delaware, OA. 2c, 1797- 5
£3* All perfoni indebted to the eftats of the
feid Alexander Porter, are requtfted to make
payment, and thoft who hove demands again!*
the fame, to produce them duly authenticated,
for fettlfctotnt.
Oil. 30. «ltS.
" to~b'e sold,
And immediate poJTcJJion given,
A Convenient well fimthed Brick tenement,
with a cook house and other out houses,(Stu
nted in a pleasant part of th« borough of Wilraing
ton, in the State of Delaware—The lot of ground
has forty feet front on Weft-flreet, and extends
through'the fquarc to Paflare-ftreet, on which is
cre&ed a liable and carriage honfe.
ALLEN M'LANE.
, Wilmington, Aug. 30. _ ''
" Philadelphia, 03. 13.
THE fubferibers inform their friends and cufto
tners in town and country, that their (lores are now
open in the city, and others are dai!y opening, and
that from the present appearance of the prevailing
iliforder have reason to hope, their friends may
lhortly come to the city with perfect fsf ty. By
several late arrivals, number* have received frelh
Supplies of GOODS.
Robert SmM 'd Co. P- W. Gallaudet & Co.
John Davis "d Co. Sitgreaves t5 French,
Neill Smith, George Dob/on,
li'iltbirger and Smith, Thomas Rjer/on,
Jkx Eiljlund and Co. T. Rs Hardenberg.
Jacob y and Co. John Sinifb and Lr
Cwn Jona. Jones, Tbcrnas Orr, _
Keppek & Zantzingrr, William Barker Co■
Mam Zantz'nger, Thomas Armat b Son.
John Fries, J■ Miller, jtm. «n<t Co.
Bt-jjmin i!fj- Jo'S'fan.
OA. 14
Wanted, to Hire,
\ and convenient HOUSE, in or near
J\ the centre of the city—for .vhich a ge«erous
rent will be given} to Jje taken for a year, or on
lease for a longer term. Inquired th« Fruiter.
oa. 17. tot£
PHILADELPHIA: WEDNESDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER i, 1797.
For London,
James Jofiali, Mafler y
TITfILL faii with all conven
* VV icnt expedition. For
Freight or Passage, apply to the Gaptaia, ©r to
jeffe 1$ Robert Wain.
OA. 31. . L.
For Charter,
THE SHIP
John Bulklej^
Samuel Volans, Master.
] is built of live oak
I an d cedar, of about 300®
barrels burthen, and ready to receive on board a
cargo.
'Jeffe & Robert Wain.
OA. 31. $
For SAVANNAH,
thi rast Sailing SHir
Jacket,
P atr ' Gribbin, Majler.
tW. iViv'v NOW lyhig at Smith's wh«rf,
- - . n r. ,1 if
above Raee-ftreet. Is haudfome
ly accommodated for palTengers, and will fail with
all convenient speed. For freight or passage, apply
to the Master on board, or at No. 95, South
Frottt-ftreet, or of the fubferibers,
N. fe 3 y. Frazier.
OA. 28. dtf
For St. Thomas's,
THE DANISH BUG
Prince Frederick,
Francis Geolfi, Majler.
W 11.1, (ail with all cpnvenient fpecd, having
the greater part »f her cargo ready to go
on board. For Freight or Passage, apply to th«
Captain, or to JOSEPH SIMS.
OA. 28. |6t__
For London,
r£"2~v the ship
Daniel M'Pherfon, Majler.
TO fail with all convenient speed—a coniidera
blc part of her cargo being already engaged.
For terms of Freight or Passage, apply to
Rofs Ess Sim/on.
OA. 27. $
For Freight or Charter,
Abel Catherina,
Burthen about 160 tons.
THIS vessel is now ready ta receive on board a
cargo, and may be dispatched to aay port in Eu
rope or the Mediterranean in eight days.
-Ipply to the Captain on board, oiito the fabferi
ber. JAMBS YARD. »
OA. 19. diet
For Freight or Charter,
tiie oood bri °
S U K E Y,
Isaac Vredenburg, Master ;
"*NO\V lying at Clifford's whari, and in compleat
order to recntve a cargo. For terms please to ap
ply the Captain »n board, or
John Slyrin,
' No. 3 1, Arcti-llrcet.
WHO HAS FOX SALE,
2000 wt.of doublerefinedSaltpetre
600 of F F Gun Powder
| o barrels of Hers inirs
50 otifheh. of Timothy Seed
150 cafe* of Claret, firii q«ahty
And aq«antity of Sherry Wine.
Sept. 29. dt(
Antigua Rum,
JUST arrived at Wilmington, Delaware
State, and now landing from on hoard the
Brig AAivc, WiUnro VVilliamt, Maier,
One hundred hhds. 3d & 4th proof,
And for Sale bv
Jehu Hollingfworth £3* Co.
Wilmington, Sept.u. t. dif
N. B. The above Brig,
\ OA YOSO, are
for Sale or Charter, and
..j now re fl 4y to reeeive a cargo
on board, at Wilmington. Apply as above.
Just published,
And to be fold at the Beokdores of H. & P.
Rice, No. 50, Market-ftrcet 1 J. Orrnrod,
No. 41, ChelYiut-ftreet, and W. Yaung,
corner of Chefnut and' Second-flreets,
An accurate System of Surveying;
ISI WHICH IS CONTAIN FD,
I. Decimal fraAions, ia a plain, concise,
and easy manner.
1. The extraAion of the square root.
3. Plain trigonometry, reAangular and ob
lique.
4. An exaA method to call up the contents
sf lands.
5. Field surveying.
The whole being performed without the use
<rf scale and compasses, on a table of logarithms.
In which is given some accrust cf the variation
of thfc need!e, and the caufea of its attraflion.
By SAMUEL MQORE.
Aueuft 1. ' 2awiw
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, and
CONSUMPTIONS.
Just received, by Wsi. Okiffiths,No. IJ7,South
Second-street, a frefti (upplyof
Genuine Bai/am of Honey,
A Medicine invented by the late Sir John Hill
t\ (ivho knowledge as a BoCanift procured him
the sppellatton of the Linnaui <)f Eiitain) and re
nonfidercd in Eu;;l»ntl as a certain care for the above
complaints; it U alio of Gngular offuacy ia the
I Hooping Cough,
It may also be had retail of Y\ r . A. §tokcs,No.
61, South Sccond-ftreet, and T. Stiff, sj,Ncw
flreet, in bottles at IS 1 cents eatli.
Wm. GairriTHS having observed «he happy ef
fea of the medicine, (feveval cafe.of cures hav
ing come within his own knowledge) and the grc4t
demand for it has induced him to order a large;
supply, a part of which he bas just received.
Jagnji 3. law 3 w
By John Fenno, N° 119 Chefnut Street.
Wharton and Lewis,
'A.irE FOR SALE,
At their Store and Infurahce Office tor Clipping,
No. in. South front-flreet,
Jamaica Rum, 4th proef, 7 entitled to
Alicant Brandy, id &id prut. J drawback. '
Madeira Wine, and i
A few 1 hogfteads of Juniper Berties.
October »l. cots
' ' notice: *
A Meeting of the Geutral Board, of the
Guardians of the Poor, for the city of Phi
ladelphia, and fubuibs, will be held at the
Old City Ceurt-Houfe, on Thursday next,
the 2d as November, at 5 a'clock, P. M.
Those Gentlemen .whose time expired cm
the 25th of September last, and who have
unfettledjgccounts with the Board, are par
ticularly requested to attend.
PETER MIERCKEN, Pres.
South<warh x 30 th OS. 1797. \t.
Young Ladies of Philadelphia.
TIIE Public are refpeilfully informed, that
the said Academy will be open on Monday, the
sixth of Nov. inft. for the reccptien of pupils.
JOHN POOR, Piinc pal.
Ofl-31, d6t.
In the Press,
And speedily will be publillied by William
Youhg, No. 52, Second, the comer of
Ch«fnut Street,
A VIEW
Of the Science of Life ;
On the principleseftablrtied in the elements
of Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BROWN, M. D.
With an attempt to corrtS feme important er
rors of that voi k, and cases is illustration, chief
ly le'eifttd from rhe records of their pradlice, at
the iGineral Hospital at Calcutta,
Br Wuliam Tates id Chas. Maclean.
To which is fubjeined, a Treatise on the a&ion
of Msrcury upon living bodies, and its applica
tion for the cure of diseases of indirefl debility.
AndadiiTertation onthe sources of Epidemicand
Peftilentialdifeafesj in whichisattempted top rove
by a numerous indu&ion of fafls, that they ne
ver arile from contagion, but are always produ
ced by certain states, or certain vicifiitudes of
the atmolpliere, by Charlis Maclean, of
Calcutta.
Q«3. 31. jut
Mordecai Lewis,
HAS fOX SALE.
At bis Store, No. aj, Great Dock-street,
250 bales of Bengal Goods
Containing Baftas
Codas
Gurrahs
Moragugungees
Tookery
Check and Stripes
Bandano Haadkerchiefs
Mamoody
CalicMs
II boxes Iri(h Linens
I do. Diapers
7 do. Umbrellas ,
20 canisters Java flsgar
78 hags bhek Pepper
Hi do. Kaft India Ginger
io« calks roll Brimftonc
7c pipes Madeira Wine
57 calks Gin
A quantity o( (hcathing Copper and Nail*.
Oflobtr 30. lawjw
Walker 6c Kennedy,
No. 73, South Front Street,
HAVE FOR SALE,
100 Hegflieads of prime Georgia Tobacco,
ALSO,
50 Pipes of Bonrdeaux Brandy,
10 Pipes of old Port Wine
-os. 17. i««itf
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given,
' | 'HAT agreeably to an ait of Ccngrefs of the
.L Unitd J States of America, paifed at Phila
delphia, tke aßth day of May, 1796 j laying du
ti«s 011 Carriages, for the conveyance of perfoni,
which (hall be kept by or for any peri'on, for hi s
or her own use, or to let out to hrre, or for the
conveyance of passengers, the several duties and
rates following, to wit:
For and upon every Ceacb, I.; dols.
upon every Cfariot, l» dols..
cpon every Pod Chariot, 1 i dole,
upon every Poll Chaise, I a dol«.
upon every Phaeton, witb or wltheut top,
9 dols.
upon every Coachee, 9 dols.
•fiin other Carriages, having pannelwork
above, with blinds, glaftes 01 curtains,
9 doln.
upon f«ur wheeled Carriages, having fra
med polls and tops wich steel fprmgs, 6
dols.
upon four wheeled Carriages, with wood-
iron fpringsor jacks, 3 dols,
upon Curricles with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chaises with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chairs with tops; 3 dose.
upon other two wheel tOjScarriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carriages, with 4eel or
iron springs, 3 dok.
For and upon all other two wheel carriages, c dols.
upon every four wheeled carriage, having
framed polls and *.ops, and reding up
on wooden' spars, 2 dols.
The Collectors of the Revenue for tlic firft Sur
vey of the Piftriit of Pennsylvania, will attend,
daily, until the 3cth day of September »»st, for
the pnrpofe of receiving th« duties ou Carriages, at
Germautown; at the house of Daniel St. Clair,Eft),
in the County of Montgomery ; and at the house
of James CHapman,Efq. in the County of Bucks ;
of which allperfonspoffrfTed offuch Carriages are
desired to take notice.
Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dis
tilled fpirituoas liquors, that licences will be grant
ed to them ; one licence fcrcatrying on the bnfi
nefsof retailing of Wines, in a lsfs quantity, nr
in lef» quantities than thirty gallons— and one li
cence for carrying on the business of retailing Spi
rituons liqilors in less quantities than 10 gallons, at
the lame time and at the fame places, by the offic
ers legally TOthorifed to tyrant such licences.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpeilor of the Rtvenire of the firft fut
vcy of the liiftriit of Pennfylvairia.
Office of Infpe<sio3 at 7
Sermantow, Izth Sept. *797- S
From Marseilles.
THE CARGO
Of tbeSwedilh barque Ouflavus Adolpbus.from
Mavfedles, coofilling of the following articles,
is discharging at Mr. Luimer's wharf, a.vd fer
sale by the fubfeibers
BRAWDY, well flavored, of », 3 as 4th proof
Claret, in hcgftitads
Ditto, in cafej
Frontigniae Wine, in cases ef 30 bottles
Olive Oil, of afupeiior quality, in baikcts of i
and ia Uottlet
Captrs
Olives
Alison ds
Dry Verdigreafe
Writing Paper
Umbrellas (Silk) of iS, 30 and 31 inshes
'('atretics
Long and (hort white Kid Gloves for Women
Si(lc Stockings
Handkerchiefs, in imitation of ftadrafs
Artificial Flowers and Garlands
Ostrich Feathers
RiUbons
Perfumery
Scent«d Hair-Powder and PoiTUtam
Manna in forts
Cream Tartar.
BENJAMIN MORGAN &
ROBERT ANDREWS.
Septetnher 17. eotf
Choice St. Croix Sugar and Rum,
C6fcfee
MaJeira TcterifFe Wine
For Saks by
James Yard,
No. —South I'ottrth-ftreet.
6. d;,w
Imported inthe(hipMAKCHE»TE«.,
Bkrjamin Shewell, Matter, t
From Bourdeaux, and for sale by the fubferiber,
No. ti Walnut Street.
Bonrdeaux Brandy
Irilh marlfet claret in cases ( Entitled to
Medoc wine, in do. f Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. , J
Thomas Murgatrsyd.
WHO HAS fOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter caflts
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
4000 bushels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tttt&stf.
Boston Glass Manufadory.
THE citizens of the United States are hereby
informed, that the manufacture of Window
Olafs is n»w commenced at the Glass Hotlfe in Bos
ton.
It is needless to fay any thing of the excellent
quality of the Boston Glass, as it is so well known
tnronghout the United States to be in every refpefi
greatly superior (0 any ever imported from Europe.
It wiil be cm to any size commonly used ; and
may be constantly had by applying ta Cbaklis F.
•Kupfer, at the Glafj House. \
Orders from the distant States to be addressed to
Mr. SAMUtt Gore, Court-street, Boston.
Boston, Sept 30, 1797. O 4 —4aw6w
Mtjfrt. 7'in;»lby a*d Mason, Charlrjitn ; Mejfrt.
Hodge and Boy tan, Halifax, C. Msjrt. WilLett
and O'Connor, Norfolk ; Mr. Ellis Price, Alexandria ;
Mejfri. Tundt and Broiun, Baltimore ; Mr. Hopkins,
HefU'Yori ; and Aicjfrs. Htedjon 55* Good-win, Hart
ford; Mr. Seymour, Savannah ; are reqvejled to insert
the above once a vjeei 6 tveeit. The accounts to be so
warded to the Editor. u
At a Meeting of the Board of
Property, June 6, 1797>
Present John Hall, Se*'»y
Francis JohnOon, It. G. > oflandoffice
Dan. Brqdhcad, S» G- )
Nicholas Hettinger,
, I'erfus >
Samuel Cui>nin(;haiT>. J
In this cafe th- proof of service of notice be
ing infufiicient. It isordered that notice be pv
en in one of th! Philadelphia and York newfpa
prrs weekly, for at lead eight weeks to the
heirs or alfignees of Satnuel C'.inninjrham de
ceaftd, to Mtteiid the board oil tlu- firlt .Monday
in November next, to (hew caole why a ;;atetit
ftiTuld not ifTue to Nicholas Bettingei £«r the
land in quellion.
IA true Copy.)
JOHN HALL,
Secretary of the Land Office.
Aug. it. *t*wgw.
At the Federal Blast Fyrnace,
In Carver—for Setting, Platting, and Rolling
Mil ls.
SEYMOUR'S Patent Rollers.
THAW superiority con/ijfs in being free from
kales and honry-combed f>laees, ivkieh are com
moth found in rollers call in sand, or day
moxUs. Thtfe patent rollers are cafi in rr-n
moulds, preuionjly heated, and'will be fvund to
be more dense, solid and durable than any rollers
heretofore used. Another important advantage
they have ever others, is, that the necks require
no turning, but are immedaitely frl for use, and
from their accuracy, run with left friflion, and
require Ufs water ta make them perform their
-jiork. I bey may be had by application to the
Patentee in Plymouth, of Gen. Nathaniel Gtod
noin, or of.MeJj'rs. Thatcher and Hay ward
Boston, Aug. 31. Sept. 19 §(<t■
This Day is Publiffeed,
BY Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Mice, and ihc
other Bookfcllprs,
Price ©ne Dollar and twenty-five cents,
F.legant'yprinted on iVo-oe paper, and Not
prejfed,
By John Thcmpfon,
A COMPARATIVE ViEVy OF
The Constitutions
Of th# several States with each other, and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of eaeh Conftitdtion, and
claflitigtogether their most important provisions,
\iuder the several heads of admiaiftratiqn ; with
Notes andObfervations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,-
Of. South Carolina,
L L. D. and member of the Congreft of the
United States.
Dedicated to tho People of thu United State".
N. B. A few Copies printad os an inferior pa
t>er, at 3-4thsof a dollar.
February 6 mwf
Public .Notice is hereby £iven,
THAT the Conimililotiers"for the Dirfrift of
have removed their hall to the hou;-.
formerly occupied by Samuel Gaff, ChrilHin at in
tlic corner of l'ifth ilreet. G&. 4.
Samuel Pleafants sff Sons,
No, 74, South Second-fired,
HAW. received a lujjjjiy of Seafon»b!e GOODS,
which t'ncy are now epesing for laie, on
re*lonable terms. OA tj—4<v
St. Croix Sugar & Rum,
For Sale by
JOHN NIXON & Co.
OS. %(>. (Jjw,
To GentMtjfen Hvbf mtend /pending
the Winter in the City.
ROOMS to LET, •
WITH or without Board —at No. XI4, corner
of Sixth and Race Streets. The fitU2tion
agreeable—and vicinity has been free from the late
contagion. ' o<ft. 27 —dtf
Thomas Herman Leuffer,
North fifth ftrect, corner ef North alley, No. 34,
HAS FOR. SALI,
EXCELLENT red Uourdeaux Wine in cases
bores, fix years old
White Gravos Wine in caflcs
Ticfclrnburgs
Ruflia Sail Cloths
Raveny Duct
Bag Linen
KcHians
Diaper and Table Cloth
Empty bags
Common German Cloth
An afifortment'of black Ribbocs
F'ne German Laces
About twelve toes Ruffis clean Hemp
Clorer Heed
Italian Soap, :n small boxes, for family uft
Window Glass
Excellent Bourdeaux Brandy
Bittn dittA Claret in cases
Just received, and for Sale by
Handle & Leech.
TENERIFFE WINE." "
LANDING it Walnut-street wharf, TEN Ji
ll IFFE WINE, of excellent quality, in pipes and
half pipes, for fala by JAMES YARI>.
O* I*. eoßt
City CommiJJioners OJftee,
August 29, 1797.
IN pursuance of an Ordinance of the Saleat arj&
Common Councils, pafied the i»d day of May last.
PropofaU in writing will be received by the City
Commifiioners for one month from the ift of Sep
tember next, for letting to rent on leales for o*e
year to commence the firft day of January next, tint
following public property of the city—
The wharf and landing on Vine Straet,
Alfoon Saflafra?,
Mulberry,
And High Streets,
Chefnut and Walnut Streets, Braw Bridge, wit]}
the Scale and Filh Houses, Spruce, Pine and Cedar
Streets.
The cellar under the City-Hall.
The Tavern at the middle ferry on Schuylkill,
with the lots contiguous thereto, (except so much
thereof as shall be occupied by any buildings ereiS.
Ed for the use of the Collector of the Tolls, or be
necessary for the toll-gates.)
Ang. 3 3ta\vim.
THIS DAY WAS PUBLISHED,
And for fate by 7HBM4S DOBSON, at the
Stone House, No. 4i> foutli Second flreet,
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED.
Confifiing ot a variety of Mifcel|aneous Pieces for
the Inliru&ion and amusement of YOUNG PER
SONS— Six Volumeshandl'omely printed and bound
up ia two volumes, price Two Dollars.
The variety and excellence of theft pieces are
f*cb, that the book needs only to be knov.-n to be
univeffally efleeined one of the most valuable pub
lications th, t can be put into the hands of young
persons.
" Delightful talk to rear the tender thought,
To teach the younß idea how tu (hoot.
To pour tk« frelh ißftrudion o'er the.mind.
To breathe th' ehlivening fpirit,abd t>* fix
The generous purpose in the glowing bread."
TuausoK.
August 24. Bwf4«
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS DOSSON, at the Stone Houfu,
No. 41, south Second street,
Letters and Conversations,
Between several Young Ladies,on improving and in*
terefting fubje&s.
Translated frotu the Dutch of Madame da Camion
with alterations and improvements,
Printed enJim paper, and neatly bound.
Price tine tfyltar.
AMIDST the tide of modem Ren>tnce?, painting
tales ®f fxtraordinary diilrefs, or of desperate or
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," and
which it would be lor the honor of young ladies tn
be ignorant of, this little hoo't comas forward to so
licit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, not eic-
the bounds of "al life, theproper, bcfcaufj
I depart and natural dignity and importance of the Pemcle
daraSter is exhibited in an intcreflingpoint of view,
and presents examples of real and attainable excel
lent t.
The publifiier was fomuch pleased with the pero
ral, that be was persuaded he fbould do a pleating
service to thu community by fending it in o circu
lation. Augull 44 —01W4W
Imported in the latest arrivals from
Amsterdam and Hamburg, and for Tale by
B. Iff J. BOHLEN,
A large ajfortment of fine French Cambrkt t
Platillas Kuflia and Dutch iail cloth
Britfannias ■ Writing, post, and print-
Rouanes ing paper
Brown Holland Dutch calf skins
» Checks and (tripes Prime madder
> Ticklenburgs ShellM Barley
1 Qznal'urgs Looking gla-fles
■ White sheetings Hollow glass wavt
1 Dnpcr Slates
Brown rolls Coffee n»i!!s
Umbrellas Brass kettles
Hair ribbons Scythes and straw knives
Black and whitelares Tqvs aSorted in bouts
BeA Holland Gin in pipes
London particular Madeira Wine
Jy'y 14. m&thtf
Acl laying Duties on Stamped Vellum
Parchment and Pdper.
A FEW copi«s of the above aft may be had at
he Office of the Gazette of the United States, No
1 9 , ChcGiut-Orw*. J«ly 19.
[Vetvmb XIIFOR SALE,
or the su3sc ribe* s, No. It, Penn-flreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Greui, commander, from Bengal,
Co»f'!i in? of
Baftas, of various qualities & prices
CrTa. a Punjum Cloths
Sanahs ffiitzz y do.
H'.imhrmi Charconna Dorea
Kiie Ch.(h Tanjihs ■ ,
Chintz and Calicoes MuMull
Mamoodys Checks
M;!l>:iJ-.'gonges Patv.a Hhl:f*.
Ginghams " Mulmul do.
Gu7if'a« fcandannoM
Gurvahs Siflerfoy
PiniaCcoce Choppa Romals *
Ka'gatthys Sooty do.
Gillie Romals Ferfiansof variouscolours
Mock roSc*t» \
aoo tons SUGAR
90,000 lb. PEPPER.
Willings U Francis.
ty In the course of * few days, the PIECE
GOODS,, composing the cargo of th« (hip Ganges,
will be exposed for falc at that large commodious
Store, ihc northwest corner of Market andFuurth
street*. where a bale of every species of Goods will
Vie open. d Ocl. 31.
L A N D IN G,
From on board thefhip Cleopatra, Samuel Newell,
commander, from London,
60 tons of the best clean Russia
1 HEMP
60 raCcsof bottled BROWN S^'OUT.
For tale by the fubferibers, No. 21, P«nn-{lrect.
Willings
OSi. 31. _ , d
Just arrived,
From Pcrt-su-Prirce, and for File by the fubferi
bers, No. n, Penn-ftre:t,
6<2 hoglheadi,"^
amerces (Prime Coffee
523 barrtis (
646 bags J
Willings C3 5 Francis.
oa. is. b_
Clocks and Watches,
Of everv description, opening for Sale, by
EPHRAIM CLARK,
bis Keiv Corner of
MARKET end FRON-T STREETS.
ALSO
An me;.St: and genfr.il aff.irtment of
Tools, Files, and Materials.
CONSISTING OF
Clock Motfmeots and* Clock Dials, erght day
anS thirty hours cast bras., forged work »rid Pin
ion'. Bel s and Hands, Cat Gut, fcrexv and draw
Platen, Turkey Stontj, Pumic.-, Em>ry and Rot
t. n fitone,Spring# anl Gliffcs, Chains iCtya,beal#
f.-c &c. bpring sud flauding Clocks.
051. 17. eotf
Injurance Covipany of the State of
Pennsylvania.
IBE Office is again opened at the corner cf
V.V ivt and Second Ureets, wh. re applications are
r-r ived as usual. , eOjt , 9^
Now Landing,
At Sims' Wharf, from ot) board the (hip C-mntrce,
captjain Chamberlain, from Pert an Prince,
35 hotheads of SUGAR
'B4 '"do. MOJ>ASSES
4 tiercea
FOR SALE, BY
Philips, Crumond, & Co.
OA. 17. l_
James Richard Smith,
TAKE the liberty of ioforniirg their friends
ard the public, that they haveremovcJ their
flore to Mo» 54, South Frwntfired next d*or to Ed
ward Pox's Aufticn ifcoom, where they have at
this time for fale,n large and general aflbrtrarnt 6f
European ilf Ecjl India Goods,
Many of which are just importe d in tha Clothier,
William Pcnn, &c. &c.
Oft. 17.
ROSS & SIMS ON,
V
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Coffas, and
a quantity of B'ngal COT TON.
Bengal SUGAR, in tags and boxes
Jamaica,
St. Vincent', > RUM.
and Bengal J
oa. v -
Samuel & Miers Fiflitr,
\7 F NOW QPEVING,
At their W,irehoufc, No. 27, Dbck Street, a frefli
assortment of Woolen and other goods, fu<table to
the season, received by the late arrivals from Eng
land.
Tic; have titfo for Sale,
Lilbon
'i'enerifTe ( In p ; pc9 hhds. and quarter calks-
Sherry, and ( r r
Port Wines, _)
Afl'orted queen's ware in crates, &c.
1 oth mo- a.td. dty.'jtawyy.
' TO BE LET—At a moderate Rent,
The principal part of a HO USE,
WITHIN afliotf dillance of the Coffee-houfe,
which has been occupied far the lust fdur moi ths
conGttingof a good dining room and parlour, two
bed rooms and a drefling room, two garrets, letch
en, wood vault and cellar, all in excellent order,
£t for the immediate reception of a small family.
None need apply butthofe who arc refpeflabje and
regular. Inquire at the office of this Galeae.
Oa. 24 d "
Red Port Wine.
Tutt arrived, by tJie brig Iris, capt. Rhodes, from
Oporto,
Ped Port Wine in pipes, hhds. and quarter calks
gccwt.Corb.forfaleby
philips, Cramond, & Co.
July ax.
Philadelphia, OS. 24th, 1797-
All r.erfonsdefirow to coi.trait to furnilh Ra
tions and Qvari or Mafler'» Stores,dunug the
, 1 „ rlM 8 for the troop* in Philadelphia, Fort
Mifflin, cn-P.'ud Uland, Cariiflc ano Reading or
allT of them, are d.Qred to deliver their propels,
under a sealed cover, oa or before tlje arth No
vember nen^wFRANCIS, Purveyor.
% The Rations to tcnfjl of
I Flour or Bread
I pound Beef, or.V4 cf a P™ 1 " 1 of Pork
£ gill Rum, Brartdy or h.feey
1 Tb. Candles
a lb. Soap C Te every hutdred rations
s &iftigthN
I quart \ J 0
' • The Medical Lectures
thc Univerlity cf Pennfylvnnla, are pofl
poned until the !aft Monday » November
Q&oUr l<4- * \ H
£BKTX>ETfi:v W»Bgy-
ICfje <SsS3etfce*
PHILADELPHIA, v
WEDNESDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER x. V 1
n „ 1^
Extract of a letter from Baltimore, 08. 29. ; 11
" I am happy to observe that the fever 11
is on the decline in Philadelphia, as it is ,
here. From ourprefe.it profpe&s, • v
it will soon be over—and T hope (without a
disputations) every possible means be ]
used to prevent its return. Business here | f
was much retarded, but never entirely flop- ; £
ped ; the stores See. were all kept open, J
and with pleasure [ add, that it has now re- r
fumed its usual course." f
\
Communication. 1
How fwlft are the labors of charity ! To | '
wipe the trickling tear from the cheek of for- 1
row—to dissipate the anxious forebodings of
poverty —to (hut the door against the en- 1
tranca of want and hunger, nakedness and ?
cold—to/aifethe desponding, and to pour 5
oil and wine into the wounds which adverse '
events'have furrowed in the heart—these 1
these O charity, are thy divine employments. {
It is an intimation of sacred writ—77><r f
poor ye have always with you. Seventeen !
hundred years have not impaired the truth
of the assertion. Though the times (hould 1
b« prosperous arid plenty crown the exer- 1
t:ons of the husbandman, though the pro- 1
dusts of the field (hould be abundant, and '
peace and health prevail in our borders, '
stilT the avenues of misfortune are open and '
we find the poor even then with us. •
But, when pestilence (talks through the '
land, and the hands of industry are Hnnerv- '
ed—when fear drives thp citizen from his '
wonted abode, and the fugitives from the ci- 1
ty multiply in the villages—it is then that 1
the poor abound rfith us—lt is then that ;
the obje&s of clrarity and beneficence in- '
creafe—lt is then that the humane and be- 1
nevolent to whom heaven, with wealth, has
given the feeling heart, knovr " how bit (Ted 1
'tis to give,"
The late difffeffing scene which we have
witnefied, has unfolded the brightest traits
in the human character.
View the lift of fubferibers to the relief
of the diftrefTed, and let the piotis.beart ex
pand with gratitude that heaven has so ex
tensively impre(Ted its image on tfcc bofomi
of our citizens.
Let them not however be weary in well
doing—there is yet room for the liberal
mind to devifr liberal things.
A frowning winter is impending—the
hands of many will be barely fuffieient for
them—Many loft their chief depen
dence in in the death of fathers, mothers,
brothers and bther near connexions. The
usual channels of support have been inter
rupted, or elofed forever. But to the re
flefling mind more will occur than can be
suggested—Such will not only chearfnlly
contribute to the relief of every objeft that
presents itfelf, but they will feck out the re
treats of poverty and wretchedness, and to
the utmost of their ability lefTen the calami
ties of the pestilence, and alleviate the ri
gours of the season. E.
New-Ccjllc County, State cf Delaware.
MR. FENNO,
AS you have favoured the public with a
final date of the polls at SulTex and Kent
counties ele&ions, with the Jacobin lamen
tation annexed, in your Gazette, No. 1590,
you will oblige a Federqlift by publi(hing
the following (late of the pol at New-Castle,
with the friend to governments' lamen
tation.
DEMOCRATS. FEDERALISTS.
Senators. Senators.
Edward Roach 1030 Isaac Granthen 739
Citizen Ray 995 Thomas Kcan 703
Representatives. Representatives.
James Stroud Hsl Wm. Johnson 885
Rob.Armstrong 1079 S.Hollingfworthyoo
A. Rodney 1074 Jofepli Israel 688
RichardC. Dale 1041 Wm. Frazer 668
NehemiahTilton 1031 Amos Grubb 657
Joel Lewis 1021 Jacob Broom 655
Elias Naudain 844 Nich.Vandyke 471
Wm. Stidham 135
What wss the reason that the Democrats
out-polled the Federalitls in New-Castle
county, where a considerable number of the
Electors, who make great profeffions of
their friendlhip to government reside ? Is
the Federal interest degenerating ? no. But
it is poflible that the piddling genius has
some influence (he having plsyed Quaker
1 some time pad) over the elders of that so
ciety that arc well disposed to government,
and kept them at home on the day of elec
tion, while he pu(hed forward their hickory
I sons, mostly Robefpemns in politics. A
tiother reason is afligned. Aliens were fuf
fered to vote and the number on a scrutiny
will be found considerable.
Again the election was held open spur
hours in tha night in violation of the elefti
, on law, which expressly fixes tlfe hour for
closing to fi»o'clock in t{ie evening.
Yet a while and a day of retribution is at
hand. Certainly the reprefentativives of
Kent and Sussex will enquire how this adul
terated, felf-created, French crew, came to
* out-poll the Federalids.
\ OLD '76.
From the ( Mctjf.J Alfrcury.
Meflrs. Vjung & Minns,
The followingjs a genuine copy of a let
ter, written by the celebrated Dr. Byles
to the famous English poet, Pove. It was
penned when the author was about ?2 years
of age, was received with kir.dnefs and po
litely answered by the person to whom it is
addreiled—the anfwsr being accompanied
with a copy of the various worts of that
EiTayift,on Human Nature. It is a docu
ment honorable to our country, and there T
r fore I wish it preserved in the pages of the
Mercury.—lt has nerer yet appeared in
print. Yr's B.
Ncw-EnxJondi Bojlon, i j ' ■ 7> * I\l • -
TO MR. ALEXANDER POPE. b
sir, _ b
YOU are doubtless wondering at the no- 1 ft
velty. of un epistle from the remote (hores tl
vvliere this dates i«S origin ; as well as from v
so obfeure a hand as that which fubferibes o
it.—But what corner of the earth so secret, tl
as not to have heard the fame of Mr. Pope ? a
Or who so retired as riot to be acquainted v
, with his admirable compositions, or so stupid
as cot,to be ravished with them ? t
i Fame, after a man is dead, has been by d
( some ingenious writers, compared to an ap-
I plaufe in some distant region. If this be a t
, jyft similitude, you may take the pleasure t
of an admired name in America, and of a
spreading a tralTfport over the face of a new , 1
world : By wljich you may, in some measure, a
imagine the renown in which yoijr name will j 1
flourifh many ages to come, and anticipate a ; t
thousand years of futurity. I (
To let you fee a little of the reputation ! <
which you bear in these unknown climates, : <
and the improvements we are making, under , '
your aufpiciouinfluences, in the polite <. '
studies of the mflfes, 1 tranfrait to you tliCv 1
inclosed poems : Alluring myfelf, tho' not '
of the approbation of your judgment, yet of 1
the excuse and lenity of that candor which '
is forever inseparable from a great genius.
But notwithltanding all these repref«nta- ]
tions of your goadnef», which my imagina- *
tion is able to form, I find it very difficult 1
to fupprtfs the struggle of pafiions which 1 1
swells my heart, while lam writing a let- 1
ter to so great a man. lam at once urged 1
by a generous ambition to be known to you ; I 1
and forbid by a trembling consciousness of ]
iinworthinefs and obfeurity. Prompted by j :
desire, slushed with hope, or appalled with |
concern, I add to the incorredlnefs which I
would now most of all wish to
short, fir, when I approach you, it is with
a real awe and ravelence like that whieh you
have so humourously described in the Guar
dian upon dedications.
How often have I been soothed and charm
ed with the ever blooming landscapes of your
Windsor Forest ? And how does my very
foult melt away, at the fpft complaint of
the languilhing Eloifa ? How frequently has
the Rape of the Lock commanded the vari
ous paffion3 of my mind : Provoked laugh
ter ; breathed 3 tranquility ; or inspired a
transport! And how often have I been
raised, and borne away by the irrefiftlefs fire
of the Iliad, as it glows in your immortal
translation !
Permit, me, fir, to conclude my letter
with asking the favor of a few lines from the
band tfhich has blest the world with such
divine produ&ions. If you thus honor me
assure yourfclf the joys you will produce in
me, will be inferior to none but the poetic
rapture of your own breast. Perhaps you
will be disposed to smile, when I confefs,
that I have a more superstitious ardour to
fee a word written by your pen, then ever
Tom Folio in the Tatler to fee a simile of
Virgil with that advantage.
1 am, fir,
, your great admirer,
and most obedient
humble servant,
MATHER BYLES.
LANCASTER, October 28.
On Wednesday last the Synod of Phila
delphia met in this borough—Tlje follow
' ing address is published at the request of
the reverend gentlemen :
To the ministers and to the congregations
' under the pastoral care of the Synod of
' Philadelphia.
' Brtlhrtn,
THE Synod considering the state of
religion in our laud in general, and the cir
cumstances of the church to which we be
long in particular, and viewing, in connec
) tion with these, the afpeft of the political
5 affairs of our country, and the affliflive dis
pensations of divine Providence toward a
> considerable portion of its inhabitants, have
3 been deeply affe&ed.
3 It is a notorious and lamentable truth,
3 that infidelity abounds, and is by many
7 profefTed without disguise or shame : that
J profanenefs in all its forms increases both in
1 malignity and degree ; that the providence
5 of God is dehied, aud his perfections difre
s garded ; and that the precious inftitutione
e of the gospel of Christ are openly reviled
e by many, and fiegle&ed by a still more qon
>f fiderable proportion of the people :—That
s these impieties, as their certain and necef
t fary consequence, have given rife to im
is moralities of every description, highly in
r jurious, not only to the life of m, but
>- to the peace and happiness of focicty : In
!, our own church in particular, we have to
> lament with the deepest grief that vitil
y piety is declining ; that in many places the
l- external obfer.-ar.ee of gospel inilitutions,
f- and even the inclination to possess and lup
y port them, is relaxed; that the number of
those who seek the gospel ministry is small,
ir while the number of vacant congregations
i- is great, and increasing without the prof
>r pect of supply.
While such is our moral and religious
it state, we have just reason to expeft the
jf frowns of that Providence which
1- over all. We accordingly fee that the tide
to of tempora' prosperity, which we not long
since enjoyed, and which we have most un
gratefully abuied, i? ia some measure check
ed and turned :—Our commerce is inter
rupted, the fruits of the earth are diminish
ed, our manufadures are beginning to lan
guid), and even the peace of our country
t- is put in jeopardy : Infedtious and deadly
•.s diseases have visited even a large proportion
as of our most populous and opulent cities and
rs towns, and have fallen with peculiar violence
o- on the metropolis of this state and of the
is union, destroying many, and dispersing the
id most of its inhabitants, aud producing not
at only distress and grief among the poor and
u- those who have loft their dearest friends,
e T but a general and far felt calamity by the
:ie interruption which it has given to almost
in every kind of business and employment.
in these eircumftances who can rcfufe to
acknowledge that we are called to be hum
ble and to mourn ?—to be deeply humble fr
before our God, and to mourn with un- vt
' feigned penitence for those fins which are p:
the moral cause of all the affiittiofcs which j bi
we feel and fear ? To deny the obligations si
of this duty, and our peculiar call to it on
the *prefent occasion, would be but an ex- b
' ample and a proof of the depravity which
I we lament. d
I The Synod, therefore, have judged it o
to be their duty to recommend, and they h
■ do earnestly recommend accordingly, that
Thursday the 30th day of November nejft, /
1 be observed by nil the congregations under t
: their care, as a day of humiliation, fading jtl
f and prayer : That the people belonging to j t
r , our congregations do, on that day, lay |
, ' aside, as much as may be practicable, their c
1 ; worldly business and pursuits, and employ i t
! ' their time in seeking with union and with ' c
; earnestness, through the merits at?d inter- ' ti
) ■ eefiion of the adorable Redeemer, the mcr- t
( 'cy of God in the forgivenefs of our fins g
r i both as individuals and as a nation ; that j
; the minitlers of the gofpt-1 do fpecfally di- ' p
f, re& the attention of their flocks on that [ c
t day to the duty of repentance and reforma- ' i
f tion, and enforce it by the powerful motives ,<5
' which are fnggefted by the gospel of our | f
, Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, and by the j c
. peculiar circumstances in which we areplac- !
. ed; that they labour to impress on the t
t minds of the people the importance of feck- - c
[i, ing the favour and blefiing of heaven, as <
. the onlyjfource both of their temporal and f
[J ' eternal welfare that in the devotional ex- [ 1
. | ercifes of the day, both in public and in ]
f private, the most fervent supplications be i
y j addrefTed to the Father, of mercies, that the i
h -Holy Spirit may be poured oat for the re-
J vival of pure and undefiled religion in all
n the earth, and that a time of refrefhing may
fj come to this land in particular from the pre- -
n ftnee of the Lord ; that it would please 1
the Great Head of the cjiurch to raise up, <
qualify and fend forth into the gospel mi- '
1. niftry, many who (hall be-his able, faithful t
r and fuccefsful ambassadors; that he would 1
y make all our citizens sensible that righte- I
,f oufnefs exalteth a nation, and that fin is a '
is reproach to any . people ; that he would '
j. ble{# all that are in authority over us, give '
i_ them the spirit of their station, make them <
a a terror to evil doers, and a praise to them
n that do well: that he would preserve the
• e peace, the honour, and the prosperity of
j] the United States ; that he would prosper
our agriculture, arts and commerce ; that
. r he would preserve the health of the iuhabi
,e tants of our land and fare them from pefti
h lential and deadly contagion ; that he would
le graciously the strokes of his holy
n hand to tholr who have lately and peculi
;c arly fuffered under it; that he would com
u fort those that mourn, provide for the poor
s> and neceflitous, and be the portion of the
:o widow and orphan ; in a word, that he
;r would confer his choicest bleflings on us by
jf turning us from our fins, disposing us to
righteousness, piety and benevolence, and
making us a holy and a happy people.
And we do also recommend, that while
we are thus humbling ourfdves in the divine
presence, and imploring the compassion and
blessing of heaven, a special attention be
likewise given to the duty of thanksgiving
for the many favours which are still conti
a- nued to us, and for the special instances of
ir. kindness and deliverance which, any parti
af cuhr place or people may have experience
from the merciful hand of God ; and this
is the rather as our exceeding ill-desert ren
af ders the reception and continuance of these
favours an instance of more peculiar gra<;e,
and enhances our obligations to
of and praise.
r- Trusting, brethren, that you will give a
e- cheerful attention to the important duty
c- which we have now recommended, the Sy
al nod conclude with most devoutly praying,
If. that the Author of every good anffperfett
a gift may co,nfer his rieheft blessing, on you,
i-e and with commending you to his holy keep
ing and care,
h, Signed, order of the Svnod,
iy JOHN KING, Moderator,
at —.■ ■ ■ ■ ■
in EAST INDIA NEWS.
ce
e- CALCUTTA, March 13.
ns On Tuesday afternoon arrived and anch
id ored off Calcutta, his majesty's ship Hero
n- ine, capt. Gardener. Lieutenant general
at Clarke, commander in chief, came in this
;f- vefTel. On her palling Fort William, she
n- was saluted with seventeen guns and on the
n- general's landing at Chandpaul Ghaut, the
ut fame number were fired.
In On Tuesday lieutenant general Clark-,
to after having taken the.accuftomary oaths of
M office, took hi? feat in the fuj>remc council,
he On Monday advices were feceived in town
as, from Vizagapatnam, conveying the agreea
ip- ble intelligence of the capture of the Mo
os defte privateer off that port, on the 6th curt,
ill, by his a.ajefty's frigate the Fox, Malcolm,
ins The privateer come in from the eastward ;
of- and, fortunately mistaking the Fox, which
lay anchor in the roads, for a merchantman,
>us he ran in without apprehenlion ; but on
.he coming fufficiently near, to discover his mif
!th take, lie endeavoured to escape. The Fox
ide immediately weighed and stood out, and af
ng ter a chaee of upwards of seven hours got
jii- within gun Hint, when the privateer ftmck
;k- her colours. It proved to be Li Modefte,
er- capt. de Latonmr, niounlii.g 22 carriage
fh- guns.
an- The Mode ft e left the Mauritius fume
try months since. During her cruize !he has
ily captured nine prizes ; viz. tvvo South sea
ion whalers, captured in the gulf of Madagal
,nd car, the snow Emily's Gift, belonging to
ice Calcutta, a ketch from Prince of Wales 111-
:he and, commanded by capt. Story ; the Rat
:he tlefnake cutter, and the Blenheim, and two
lot other fmssll vcfieb, names unknown,
ind When the Modefte failed from the Mauri
ds, tius (he had on board nearly 200 men ; but
the at the time of her capture, this complement
oft from the hands sent on board her different
prizes, were reduced to sixty men. She has
to been sent to Madras for condemnation.
t
On Tuesday arrived in die river the Fox
| frigate, with her prize, the Modefte. These
j vessels remain at Kedgeree, where stock and
j provision of every kind, with water, have
l been sent down by government for their
supply.
Several very fine Englifti horses are bro't
by the Abercromby.
Tire above horses were landed on Thurs
day morning and appear to be in excellent
order, coufidering the length of time they
have been on board.
By letters from Madras, we learn that
Admiral Rainier had ordered the Arrogant
to join him at that port. The accounts fur
ther state, that the admiral had sent for the
two navy transports, Echo and Latona.
By letters from Lucknow, of the 4th
' curt, we are informed that the ceremony of
i the exchange of the hat and turban had been
I observed between the right hon. the gover
i nor general and his highness the vizier, in
testimony of the moil (incere friendlhip and
good will between the parties.
! The vizier continues to observe the most'
; profound refpe£t and attention to the govern
or ; and from the favorable disposition man
ifefted by his highnefit, our eorrefpondent iff
decidedly of opinion that any arrangements
for the public good, will meet with a ready
concurrence on the part of his hignefs.
Our letters from Lucknow also? mention
I that the Nawaub Vizier had direfted boats
- of different conftruftions to be transported
j on hackeries to the banks of the Ganges,
| for the purpose of accompanying the how.
! the governor general on his return to the
preMency ; the waters of Goomty not be
ing fufficient to admit of the boats' proceed
ing by that channel.
BOMBAY, February jj.
On the morning of Monday la£l, the Shah
Ardafeer, captain Dawfon, anchored in (he
harbour from China, after touching at Ma
dras, and upon the Malabar coafl. This
(hip is the lall of our China fleet ; and if
the precarious chara&er of the Canton mar
ket would allow us to fpeewjate upon the
tenor of her accounts, we should argue fa
vorably of the ensuing season, for fmce our
. last advices the price of cotton had risen ;
but it is a quetlion of mnch doubt whether
cireumftances will concur to uphold the
1 price.
The Ardefeer left Canton on the 3d of
F December, at which time the retail jyi of
- cotton was so high as 16 tales the ptfcul.
Such however is the ignorance we are tfon
. (trained to profefs with regard to every thing
. that relates to China history, that in treat-
I ing of the cause of this unexpefted improve
r ment of the market, we mult express our
. selves with the utmost diffidence.
It said, that an mfurre<Etion of a fenous
r nature has lately been fomented in several
e of the provinces of China, particularly in
: that of Howquang, which was principalif
y devoted to the produce of cotton, hence the
3 cultivation of this article had been netrled
i ed. '
The cause of these diftutbances is afcribeti
e to the emperor Kien Long having abdicated
e his throne in February lift,'when at the age
3 of 87 years, in favor of KaHing, his ijtfi
e son : instead however of retiring like Charles
t Vth into folittuk, and renouncing altogether
. the cares of government, the aged emperor -
,f had (till manifefted an inclination to have a
voice in the affairs of the state ; in this he
e was fefonded by Co Lau, a Mandarin, who
; s had long prcfided in adminiilration, but who
i_ at firft had (hared the resolution of his master
" e to retire from the fatigues of public life';
;j jealousies had thu3 ai ifen .between the old
c and new miniftcrs, 'which had very generally
difleminated tbemfelves through the provirt
a ces, the mandarins of the firft rank, siding
v as interest or attachment led them, with the
.. leading parties at court,
r, Messrs. Drummond and Spsrkes, hac! re
} signed the management of the company's
jj house of agency at Canton, in which they
>. had been by Mefirs. Parry and
Williams, gentlitnen lately arrived from
Great-Britain : this change of appointment
has been nottified by the fuperenrgoes to our
- government, and by the board to the mer-/
chants of the port.
Just before the failing of the Ardafeer,
Accounts had been received of the arrival of
an Indiaman at Macoa from Great Britain ;
the firft direct (hip of the feafon—tht On-
J tario, captain Olmfted, an American (hip,
; s from Mew-York, had also arrived. Mr. Dun
e can, the surgeon of the Br'itifh faftory, had
e taken his passage in this (hip to go circuJt
e ouily to Europe —he would be succeeded br
Mr. Crichton.
Mr. Beak*, the Prussian coriful, and agent
,f at Canton, also prppofed to return with his
family by one of the (hips ofthe season.
n The Panther, captain Speak, we unaer
j. (land, is und'er failing orders to convoy a
j. packet to Suez; which it is said will be
t< committed to the charge of lieut. col. Dnn
lop, of his majeftv's 77th regt. and aid-du
. camp to the hon. the governor.
], The political arrangements at Poona arr
3) (till the fubje'tt of tedious and dilatory ne
,n gociations ; it would appear that each party
f. were deCrous of fatiguing the other into ai -
, x eommodation, wluie, in the mean time, each
f_ is the obje£t of jealonfy, suspicion and dif-
St trull. It is become a matter o£|nterefiraF
•k fpcculavon to consider whether the motioa
e> of Zemaun Shah will not call Scindea int«
r C Hindoflan, and if he is compelled to quit
Poona, whether Nana will be left without
le controul to carry into execution the meafuru
as which he has agitarcd.
ea Letters within this last week from Peon*
tf. report in feeling terms gf ;tn inhuman mar
to der that was committed on Monday fe'ru.
(1- night in Nana'?, camp, upon Mr. GoiTan,
[t _ an officer in his fervioe.
vo Mr. Gofian had arrived in this country n$
the furjreon ofthe Berringtoa, Botany Bay
r ;. (hip; upon the capture of which by the
;lt Malwans, he bad taken service as a partisan
, Ilt with the Guiqua. At the period of Nana's
nt minority he lifttned to the overtures of some
las of his adhercats, and repaired 1o his stand
ard in the Coukaa : the fortune of N*«a hadrovr -stwngerf ; iv- felt left neceflity for Mr. !
C' ifEin's afiiilnnee, and eonfequeritlv became 1
languid of that encouragement which his <
late condition had lt d him to promise ; .he t
not only withheld those supplies r.eeeffary
to support his eflahlifhment, but evaded re- t
imburfir.g those sums he had expended from v
his own funds towards the recruiting and j i
cquiping his battalion. ■- |c
Mr. Gossan wearied at length with the ! t
delays which were daily oppofedtohis claims 1
became piremptory in demanding his ar
rears ; he had had an interview with Da
da Gnggera, a pian related to and in the
confidence of Nana, of whom he infilled u- $
pon payment ; he was fatisfie4 at the time c
with five thousand rupees, and a promise of '•
the balance if he would call on the Mont
day at the tent of Nana : according to ap- i
poihtment he waited upon Nana between >
the hours of three and four in the after,: t
noon ; he wasat'firft denied admittante in- <
to the tent, but infilling upon accefshe ob
tained it : it is said that Nana retired with t
him, and sent a Br'amin named Ragoo Punt | t
Goorbulna to pacify him with promises, and -
persuade him to retire j how far he was ' f
concerned in the treacherous plot that sol- I
lowed, or how far Mr. GoiT.tr> might have !
provoked his fate by an intemperate cotiduft : i
we to fay ; however it may «
.be, Mr. was reconciled to a fuither <
delay by this Goorbulna, who attended him *
out ps the t?nt, and led him in discourse to
a neighbouring nulla ; -where he took his j
leave upon the banks of this Nulla ; a body I •
of Arabs had been polled, who immediate- \ '
iy upon a signal from the Bramin, fired upon 1 1
Mr. Gossan and his attendants : Mr. Gof- ; j
fan fell covered with wounds, thre<J others ! 1
were also slain, and several severely wounded, k'
The Arabs not content with the fuccef; j
6f the r treachery, after mangling and in- ' ;
fulting the corpse, repaired to the encamp- |
n>cnt of Mr. Gossan's line, and fired two ■
rounds into it,-by which they killed three ■
and wounded nineteen of his men.
We underflsnd the E-uropean officers,
commanding corps in the Mahratta camp, j
teflified the abhorrence with which they J
viewed this aft of treachery, and conGdered ij
upon means of obtaining fatisfaftion ; how
far they have succeeded we know not, we
have heard however,that Nana has engaged
to make Mr. Gossan's arrears to his
heirs, and has disbanded the two battalions
of Arab* that were in his service. 1
__
Extraft of a letter, dated Head-Quarters,
Coodiangurry, 2d February, 1797. . (-1
" I baflen to communicate to you the fur
ther operations of the little army under Ma
jor Andcrfon ; the day after I sent you off
my lafl letter we marched from Coodiangur
ry, to a place called Monandeny ; in our
march we were rather unexpeftedly, very
ivarrnly leceived by a party of the Rajah's
people, who were lying in ambush in the
jungle waiting our approach, they saluted
up with a vfery brisk fire of mufquelry, which
we soon returned, at leafl two fold. The
firing commenced firfl in the front of our
line, as we wtte then, in consequence of
Angle Pies, in less than or.e minute the fire
had extended quite to the left, when we
fronted, and fired about twelve rounds by
grtmd riivifionn, which quickly checked the
enemy's impetuosity ; however, they con-
to keep a brisk but irregular fire,
«nd thiw they continued to difput* the way
tfith us, for near five milee, the objeft of
our destination be'ng a Mud Fort belonging
to the etjemy. The European grenadiers
the commencement of the aftion were or
dered in front, tupported by fix companies
ofnative grenadiers, who diilinguiflsed thsm
felves in a very gallant manner, advancing
and firing alternately from about nine o'clock
In the morning until pdfl one, when the
whole drew up in front of the Fort, and
tihr field pieces were brought up to play on
their wooden towers, from which they con
tinued for fom« time to shower vollies of
mufquetry, and defended themfelvcs with
infinite spirit and gallantry until about four
in the afternoon : we were now only wait
ing fertile arrival of the scaling ladders to
storm the place, but here we \tere unfor
tunately disappointed, as the Coolies who
•were bringing them up, alarmed for their
own faFrty threw them down, and run like
brave fellpwe, convinced of the juflnefs of
Hudibras's observation
He that fights and runs away,
May live to fight another day.
About half pafl four, the grenadiers ex
preffwg much impatience for the attack,
they were ordered to ho'.d themselves in rea
diness at a minutes warning, they were ac
cordingly ordered to the attack, when they
marched with theutiuoft alacrity, despising
all kind of fatigue or dangers through a
paddy field knee deep in mud, where the
lofk in shoes was very considerable, mofl of
them being left behind, in the paddy field,
■when the e : nemy perceiving the rapidity of
their movements,they immediately a'bandon
*d the fort, firtl setting it on fire, and our
troops futon got poffeflion of it. —Our loss
giv this occalion has not been so grtat as
might have been expefted, considering the
aukwardnefs of our situation, when firfl at
tacked, I believe the following to be a pret
ty exaft detail about 84 killed and wounded
ten of which are Europeans, viz. t ferjeant,
„I corpor;il and I private killed, and I cor
poral and fix privates wounded, chiefly of
ihf grenadiers, during the following day, a
continual fire was kept,Up by both parties,
but with very little loss on our fide.
On ih« 27th a party confifling of one
hundred and fifty men, were dilpatched for
the fiuydy of ammunition, as they marched
in the night they reached their deflir.ation
without any accident or hindrance from the
enemy, but on tneir return next day, they
fell iu with and were attacked by a strong
party <if the enemy, a reinforcement of one
hundred meit were difpa.ched to their affif
»a«ce and they unfortunately made their
way good jo the camp with the whole of the
ammunition with the loss of thirty men
.killed and wounded. As Jar ais we have
been able to learn, the enemy has Io(loi;e i
hundred and eighty-!!:; killed and two hun- 1
dred and lif.y feveti wounded and oae of ■
their principal commanders. ) ]
On the 30th a meffiige was sent in, that 1
the Rajah was ready to subscribe to wbate- j
ver terms the commiflioners might prescribe, [ ]
! fending in hoflages for the due performance j 1
!of the Agreement; in consequence of whicji J
! the army marched to this place, to wait the ]
iflue of the event.
MADRAS* February I§. 1
Letters were yejlerday received from Tran
quebar, which mention the arrival at that port 1
of a vessel from the Mauritius, (the Triton) 1
under Danish colours : the time of her debar- 1
lure we 'mve not learnt. She brings the follow- 1
ing intelligence : That the island yjas well sup- 1
plied, but the inhabitants in continual dread of \
the arrival of agents from the republic, to avenge 1
the insults offered to Brunei and his associate. \
That the Britifhfquadron had left their fta
! tion off the islands, and that three days after
' their departure, the Preneufe frigate, and the \
Brul Gucle Corvette, returned from a cruize 1
' off the coajl of Africa, and anchored in the har
bor.
That captain Lofaci, proceeding from the
: [fie .of France, had approached close to the Jhorc
of Bourbon, when the batteries on that island
opened a heavy fire on the British Jhips, and
which was as warmly returned
| From Bourbon captain Lofaci proceeding 4,0
i Madagascar, where he captured fiveral small
I French vtffels, and dejlroyed a Frermh colony
1 newly formed On that island : wh'tljl
1 tius, captain Lofaci had also captured fevfral
small veffcls, one of which under Danish colours
(Ci-devant Alert Corvette ) he releafid, after
an examination, and detention of fame days.
1 | Surety's squadron had not arrived c.t the
' ijlfnd, when the ship abohiementioned tool her |
j departure, nor had any intelligence whatever
been receivedrefpeUing him, or thefrigates under
his command.
Whether any of the enemy's privateers were
at sea» we have not afcerlained, tie letters being
Jiient on that head. Several American flips
; were on the point of proceeding from the iflaxds
. for India.
N
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, Oftober 3 1.
IMPORTANT.
We have received from a correspondent
in London, an aft of the British Parliament
paired 19th July 1797, suspending the op
erations of the Navigation Aft in regard to
f foreigners trading to the East Indies. By
this Aft nations in amity with Great Britain
r are permitted to import into and export
r \ from, the British possessions in India, in
. their own vefleta, such goods and commo
. dities as (hall be allowed by the Direftors
j of the Eafl-India Company.—And the
j Direftors are ordered to frame regulations
. accordingly. «
r
j- PRIVATE LETTERS.
r From London, give us strong ground
, to hope that our commiflioners will be well
. received by the French Government, and
, that Europe will be soon blest with Peace.
A letter from Port de Paix fays-*—
" You ca« have no idea of the diflrefs ,
' and ctuel treatment our poor countrymen -
f met within the different parts of this island,
r from our dear friends and allies the French.
' The situation of some of them is truly de
plorable."
* ' TRENTON, 08. 31.
_ In Joint-Meeting of the Lcgiflature, yef
£ terday, Richard ffoir'sLL, esquire, was re
e c/elied Governor of New-jersey, and •Jjmbs
j MoTT, rfq. Treafwer.
Qqnpany of Arti llcry, under the command
of Lieut. Marfchalk, passed through this city
r on Sunday loft, on their rout to Pittsburgh,
frim whence it is expired they will descent the
r Ohio to Fort Mcffac.
At a Court of Oyer and Terminer and
0 General Gaol Delivery, held lafl week at Fle
._ mington for the country cf Hunterdon, came on
the trial of George Still, Matthew Magomber
and IVilliam Denny, committed for burglary.
c IVilliam Denny, was admitted as evidence for
the Jlate, and acquitted—George Still was sen
tenced to ten years imprisonment, and to pay a
fine of one hundred dollars and Matthew Ma
gomber to one year's imprisonment.
LONDON, Augufl 4.
s - Lieutenant-cohinel Bell, of the 4.6 th rc
giment, was on Monday tried at the York
y assizes, for having killed Mr. C Crigan,
jr surgeon of his regiment, in a duel, on the
a llthof April lafl, and was found guilty
it of man-fla'ighter ; he was in consequence
,f fined 6s. Bd. and sentenced to one month's
i, imprisonment in Oufe-bridge jail: cv.pt.
jf Fofler, his second in that unfortunate affair,
,- and Owen Evans, servant to the colonel,
ir were acquitted.
fs ;
as IRISH SPECULATION!!
ic Sir H. B. Hayes, for the apprehension
t- of whom a reward <?f 2001. was offered by
t- government, for forcibly running away with
:d Miss Pike of Cork, is taken, and in con
t, flnemcnt. We are favoured with the fol
r- lowing particular account of that desperate
of aft : —A letter was sent to the young lady
A at a late hour i« the night, acquainting her
s, that a particular friend of her's was fud
' denly taken ill, and (hewed strong fymp
,e toms of death ; and that if even file set
or out upon the receipt of the letter to fee
this person, it was likely, if very great
3n hade was not made, that death would take
le place before she, Miss Pike, could arrive.
;y The latter immediately ordered her car
ig riagc, after reading the letter, and set out
ne to take a lafl farewell, as /he imagined, of
if- her friend ; on her way, at a place near
;ir Glanmire, about two o'clock in the morn
he ; ing, the carriage was beset by five persons,
en ! one of whom wa* Sir Henry, and carried
ve ! off in triumph to the knight's refider.ee at
Mount Vernott. A ferjiak was put into
the carriage by the party, with Miss Pike,
whofc biinnefs was to soothe the young
lady, and prevent fear from preying fcvere- i
ly upon her. ]
When arrived" at Vernon Mount, Mif6 j '
Pike was eondufted into the house, and in- <
troduced into a room, where a person, al- ;
lodged to be a clergyman, was prepared for* 1 <
performing a marriage cerrmony, in which i
(he was intreated to give her confer,t to fir ]
H. but (he resolutely refuting, he pulled >
out a pistol, and threatened to I
felf if (he did not comply. Although (he |
dill perfiftcd in her refinance, a marriage j t
scrcmony was forced upon her, and (he was < t
obliged to receive a ring, which fts food a* '<■
(he recovered the life of her hands, (he con- j:
temptuoufly threw away. Sir H. compel- j:
led her to follow him into a t»om, where, ' i
having tried in vain for some time every'art i
to induce her to favour his designs, he left i
her confined. ;(
She wag soon after released by a near re- i
lative of the knight, v/ho told the young la- i
dy (he was not to be confined, and if (lie i
would but be fatisfied, and comply with the
intreaties that had been made to her, she
might command the house and every person
in it. The lady's friends, who had been
apprised of this extraordinary adventure, by
this time had reached Vernoa Mount, and
rescued her from the party.
Sir H. B. Hayes is the son of a brewer
at Cork. He is about 35 years old, and
was lately deprived of a company in the
south Cork militia, in confeqtieiice of hav
ing ftntek lord Donerail, the sol. who had
refufed to fight him. He some years fincc I
married a lady of good connexions near j
Youghall, who left him a widower with fe- !
ven children.
Miss Pike poflefTes forty thousand pounds.
XJe <sasette*
PHIL A DELPHI A,
WEDNESDAY EVENING, t?Of r £MAER 1.
A gentleman who came pafTenger in th e
stage from New-York, states, that, on hi 3
leaving New-York, a refpeftable merchant
of that city informed him, that the Septem
ber packet had arrived at Halifax, and
had brought intelligence of Peace between
England and France.
An arrival at the Southward from Bour
"dcaux, is reported to corroborate the forego
ing information.
The desirable and momentous event of a
' general Peace, tho' left a matter of doubt
by any intelligence hitherto received, will,
in all probability, preclude another cam
paign.
But evils of the moll grievous nature may
still beset this country, (hould the pirates of
the Weft-Indies be fuffered to continue their
lawless depredations on our commerce.
This eonfideration urges in forcible lan
guage the propriety of immediately equip
ping ourJlttle marine.
MetTrs. Girard, Lownrs, and Connelly,
the visiting committee, have been induced,
from the favorable fituatioji of the Hospi
tal, to resign their fuuftions, and in future,
to discontinue their daily vifitsto that place.
The Board of Health of Baltimore, have
reported, that not one death occurred in all
that city Fell's Point included, during the
24 hours ending the 28th inft. at fun rife.
Soulbwarh, Odoher 30th, fjQJ.
Whereas, from the multiplicity of busi
ness on the part of the commissioners for the
relief of the diftrefTcd, application hath been
made by them to the committee cf health
j in Southwark, to take under t,licip-; charge
the poor of the diftrift, monies and provi
sions being furnifhed by the commissioners
for the above purpose : The former com
mittee being dissolved, it becaf.ie ncceffary
that another (hould take up the business of
relieving the poor.
Wherefore, a number of the former com
jnittee have embodied themselves under the
name of the Committee of distribution for
the diftritt of Southwark ; they hereby of
fer their services (in unison with the com
missioners) to the benevolent and humane
who jnay entrust any donations to their
charge.
Jonathan Penrofe, Efquire'sice-houfe, di
reflly back of his hay-scales, in Second
street continued, is the place appointed to
iflue donations.
Pub!i(hed by order of the committee,
JAMES I.NGLE, chairman.
John M'Mullin, fee'ry.
Comparative view of the number of Deaths io
Philadelphia, in 1793 Isf 1797-
1 793 "797
Gr. Ch. Total
August - 325 13.7 141 288
September- 1442 469 112 581
Oftober - 1993 300 63 363
Total 3760 916 316 1232
D iid —On Saturday the 23d of August
last at Darby, about 7 miles below Phila->
delpia, Asheton Humphreys, Esq. a
refpeftable citizen of Philadelphia, and an
honfl man.
The several OfSces of the Trbjsvrt De-
Pjlftaj?nt are returned to the City, and a
gain opened at the usual places. As also
those of the War Department.
Cj* The Alderman's Court for the city
: of Philadelphia will be openedvon Monday
next, the 6th <)f November, at the city
. hall as usual. Those who have business in
the said court are requested to be punctual
I in their attendance, at ten o clock in the
: forenoon.
ESLIOV-CW ZENS, . './» ?
jthere is a time for all things. ><»
The prefeot I conceive is the most proper
for the exercise of charity and ufeful im
provements, perhnp?, and I hope another
will not occur when you. can so well unite
charity and ufefulnefs together. From the
o-reat number of pjrfons who must be thrown
out of their usual employments by thedrea-d
---ful calamity through which we havejuft
pafled,_you ar-; presented with nn opportu.
nity for the exercise of your benevolence by
furnifhing the means of employing them ;
which I propose (hould be by completing
the canal from Delaware to Schuylkill, and
thereby watering the city ; beside the great
atcommodation this will-give to its inhabit
ants, it will be the best means of cleanfin
and watering the streets, and will lessen the
means of fpr«ading the contagion (hould we
"unfortunately be again visited "with that
worftof scourges the Weft-India or yellow
fever. I will offer with diffidence a propo
sal, which I hope some more able hand will
consider of and Improve on, to give employ
to many huwdreds who rnuft be maintained
the ensuing winter, either by finding .them
employ or by your charity without it.—
Let persons in each ward be appointed to
solicit fti'ofcriptions either in money or, by
becoming security for a certain sum to be
borrowed of the banks, to be repaid out of
the firft monies received from the canal, or
by a tiumber joining in a company to pur
chase (hares of the canal stack where a (hare
is more than one per(on would incline to
rifle. This mode if generally qdopted would
not only afford you the fatisfa&ion of re
lieving such of the poor as may be under
the neccffity of partaking'of it, but the prof
peft of averting the fpfeading a like calami
ty (hould it ever be introduced" amongst us.
A FRIEND TO THE POOR*
From the NEW-YORK GAZETTE.
1
/ fejft s. M' Lea 1 15* T-ang,
AI.L that haror may be fair! in favor of the
Role d'F.quipan;e, and on the policy or propriety of
our velTels being furnifhed therewith, will be of
little moment; for, condemn our vefTels to get
plunder our dtar alius arc detemfined to do at all c -
vent". V'c have not one single inftanec of a ves
sels' being liberated which provided with this
important and nrwly discovered proof of the neutrali
ty of property. On the contrary, the tribunals e
■ven in France, would not be baffled in their preda
tory views were we to load our velTels with evi
dences of their neutrality. I am informed our
custom house has lately undertaken to require of
veflels this said paper before a clearance can be ob
tained : how far the officers to whom the manage
ment of that department is eatrufted, are warrant
ed in this flep, I will not presume to determine ;
but it is much to be questioned, Whether our gov
ernment has authorised, and will not condemn a
measure so impolitic and dangerous to the hopes
and mterefts of our merchants and underwriters.
As peace is so near at hand, would it not be ad
vifeable to avoid all measures which may tend to
invalidate our claims for the 15 millions, of which
a large majority of the French nation fay we have
been unjustly stripped ? The general poverty and
misery among the French, owing to the total def
trudlion of manufactures and commerce, has pro
duced a spirit of privateering or rather plunder
ing, which pervades every part of France and her
dominions ; and all the papers we can paffibly fur- I
ni(h our velTels with, will not save one in an hun
dred more than ha« hitherto escaped the fangs of
those robbers of the world. Pea c being not far
off, wc had better atti-nd to the means which may
enable u« to recover what is 1011, than to debar
onrfelves from that hope by an attention to the fu
ture. Th? directory have formally broken the
treaty of I*7B, and said France wouldbe govern
ed by our treaty with Gr.-at Britain ; on which
frraund vre (ball fland firin in our demands for res
titution. —Do not let n« raise weapons against our
felvsn, by laving that our v fielshave not be*n ful
ly and fnfliciently, "'ocunjented, for want of this
(till 1 telv heard of) th'ng called a Role ft' Equ
ipage, or lift of the crew.
An V*d. r-.vrittr.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED, DAY'S
Brig Diligent, Shearman, Petit Guave 28
Polly, Wroth, Jeremie 18
Schr. Alciope, Rice, Port de Paix 15
CLEARED.
Schr. Fair Trader, Olmfteid, New York
Sloop Dolphin, Dickey, Norfolk
Inftuftry, Rigby, Snawhill
Baltimore, Oftcbcr 30.
Arrived yejlerday, schooner Experiment,
Knapp, 18 days from Havanna. Left
there, brigs Polly and Charlotte of Balti
more ; fchooner6 Hero, Gertfe, do. Beau
fort, Liddle, do. Porpoise, , do.
i Hebe, Hubbert, do. Felicity, Folder, do.
1 (hip Carolina, Lu(her, do. and above sixty
more fail of American vessels, the names of
, which are not rccollefted.
Sailed in company with brigs Commerce,
Gardner, Abeona, Ifaaas, and schooner
Voluptas, Hall, all for Baltimore.
1 Sehr. Experiment, Penrice, 29 days from
St. Jago.
The following lift of vessels belonging to
the United States, tak§n and carried into
St. Jago de Cuba, by the French priva
teets, was politely handed us by captain
Penrice :
Belonging to Baltimore.
Schooner Lucretia, Grant, waiting for
trial.
Felicity, Story, waiting for trial.
Bstfey and Patsy, Durkee, tried
t and cleared.
J Sloop Venus, Bird, tried and condemned.
\ Belonging to' Norfolk.
1 Brig Sophia, Shirly, waiting for trial.
Abigail, -, tried and con
demned.
Bell, , tried & cond«mned.
Shooner Betsey, Bunbury, waiting for
5 trial.
Two schooners, names unknown, tried
and condemned.
■ Belonging to Philadelphia,
f Brig Fair American, Richards, waiting
- for tvitil.
1 Belonging to New .York.
1 Brig Prosper, Cannon, waiting fortrial.
c , Juno, , tried and con
demned
- . * - ; ■ ' J}
Sloop Juliet, G/".:'.vald, 48 days
Jacquemel.
Brig Ilirar.i. Price, 90 days from Bre*
men. John H%nien, matter of the brig
was washed overfyiard aiiS drowned, in
41, long. j6. He was th« second
the brig loft overboard on the voyajf^r'^^
Schr. Ci)arming Betsey, Qjtfwil>rd,
days from" A renin. Left brigs Swii't,
Daniels, of .Stewart,
Jones, do. Experiment, Hefs, of Phila
delphia.
A Danish brig carried away her mainmast,
on her pa(Tag« from Ctiarlefto.i to Hamburg
and put in here to refit.
FOR SALE,-
BT THE SUBSCRIBERS,
Madeira Wine, firft quality, m
pipes
Madeira Wine, New-York quality, in pipes
Lisbon WINK, in.pipes
CLOVES and 7 • t.
Nt/TMTGi j* of the latelc importation, inboxe*
Spaai{h Wool, in Bales, suitable for Hatters.
', Wi.tings £2° Francis,
Pcnn-ftrcet, No. sr.
Nov. t. w&s-'f
The Subfcrihers have for Sale,
THE FOLLOWING GOOD3—viz.
Tndia Calicos Cordage
Bafcas Mould Candles") infinaU
Sutty Romals White S«ap ) boxes
Blue and red do. Jiait India ugar
Hummums Heavy blafik Pepper
Muliwuls Holland Gin, in pipes
Do. Handkerchiefs Hen Sc. white Port Wine
Sprigged and flowered Old Madeira Wine, fit
£ne Vuflins for immediate use
B#ok Muslins Sherry
Bed Covers, of printed Ciaret, in ca r es
Muslin Taunton Ale
India Persians Snglifh Porter *
Dorezs 42 qr. cafksQun Powder
Black Ta3*?yr* A wrought iron 80->k
Chirn fe Sewing Silks Cafe
Eail India Hemp
Philips, Cr amend, & Co.
November i. §6t
Port and Madeira Wine,
Now Landing,
By (hip Edward, from Madeira, and Betsey and
Peggy, freri Opprto, in Pipes and Hoglheadt,
For sale by
PETER BLIGHT.
WHO ALSO OFEERS FOR SALE,
The Ship
£§§s; A MITT,
Four thousand barrels burthen,
isS&xACitik excellent order—ready to take
in a cargo—about three years old.
LIKEWISE,
The Schooner Industry,
Burthen 800 barrels, ready also to receive a car
go —and a quantity of
Jamaica Rum and Sugars,
Just landed from the above vcffels at South ftrcet
wharf.
Nov 1. eoimi
POYNTELL's
Paper Hangings Manufactory, v
No. 70, Chefnut-ftreet,
Where he bis fnr Sule,
AVERY extensive (lock, of every colour, add
of the molt approved patterns, suitable for
every part of a house, with great variety of bor
ders to suit.
—AISO—
A handsome alTortment of the mod fafhiona6le
Silver Groundi London and Paris Papers, and
veiy best p'ain Green and plainjilue,
With Pannel P.-.pers and a rich variety of Borders.
November 1. <ro6t
■ N 0 T I C E.
The holders of certificates of a
loan to the exiled citizens of the State of touth Ca
rolina and Georgia, under an a<ft of Corpjefs 23d
July, T7Bl, are informed, that by lodging the fvms
with George Simpfon, Cafhicr of the Bank of the
United States, they Will bo enabled to receive pay
ment of principal and inter|ft, asfoon as the certi
ficates can be for warded to Gharlefton for fettlV
ment, and orders received for their discharge.
November 1. 6t
15 Dollars Reward. ,
RAN-AW aY frcm the. C ubfcriber, en the 29th
inft. an apprentice Lad, named JOSEPH
BARNET, bv trade a paper-maker; about 19
year* of age, live feet seven or eight inches high,
of a light complexion, ties his hair. Had on, and
took with him, a castor hat, half worn, one brown
mixture cloth coatec, new, oce light do. half
worn, one flriped velvet waistcoat, with blue
cloth bachs, one do. with fuftian backs, and sun
dry other thin clothes. It i« probable he will change
his clothes, as be took a number with hitw.
Any person apprehending said apprentice, and
securing him so that I can gac him again, (hall re
ceive the above reward, and reasonable charges if
brought home.
PETER BECHTEL.
Lower Mcrion township,
Montgomery cotinty. 4
Oclcber 30V N T. — law 3W.
Cj- University of Pennsylvania,
October 27, 1797.
THE different* Schools of the University will be
opened on Monday, the 6th of November ; of
which, all who arc concerned, are requested to
take notice.
By order cf the Faculty.
WM ROGERS, Secretary.
All Persons,
"jrr>DFBTED to the Bflate of Jos ph John
-i son, o! Gfrmantown, in the county of Phi
ladelphia, deeeafed, are desired to make imme
diate payment, end those who have any demands
againil laid estate, are desired Jo bring forward
their accounts to eithereof the ftibfcribers.
ELIZABETH JOfiNSON,}
JOHN JOHNSON, Jun. Adminiftr's.
JOHN JOHNSON, )
Germantown, icth mo. 27th, 1797*
OA. jr. t.^t.
AYQt'NG Woman, who can be well recom
mended —linqu'uc of the Printer.
Ofloberjl. iw
Latelv Publilhed,
4
In one vol. 8 vo. (price one dollar in boards) fold
by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of Spcondend
Chefnut
A Colle6lion of Papers on tfie fubjeft of
Billious Fevers, prevalent in the United
States for a few years past.
Compiled by NO siH fifl BSTER, juK.
Containing letters from Dolors Seaman, Smith,
Buel, Taylor, Ramsay, Monfon, Mstcbr
ell,on contagion, &c.. Ac.
THE MAYOR'S OFFICE
II KCPT, FUR TIIS PSESrNT, ATTBE
riALi..
Sept. S.To be Sold at Public Vepduc,
(If not Isfore disposed of at private sale) j
ON FjidaVf the fuft next, ?t si*
oVlock in the evening?'r't the Mo*cluals' Cos-
House, in Philadelphia, iv'rty Tnouland Nihr -
and Thirty Nine arrcs of LAND, ' r
noiv or taif in the County of ?nd Com
mor.wci'fh of and en waters of
Ftclh and Wheeling Creeks and Ten Mile Run.— t'
Their Lai ds ?rc and welj and were d:
early in < 7 v, except 37»0 acres ortherea- !ti
bou's. which were patented in 1792. One fourth i
of i i'-purchafe money t-?> be pJild at the time of la!e,
so ' the residue a credit of one. two and three rronihs,
wi!] on interest and good security.
A ( y ?' )cr 0' aawtS
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not lefore disposed of at private sale)
ON Friday, the suit day of December, at f»x
o'clock inline evening, at the Mcrchantb'
Hoiife- in Philadelphia, Twenty Six Tboufand Se
van Ha drcd "nd F.iohty acres of LAND, in th'*
State of New-York, be ween the northern bounds
of IVnr.fylvar.a cnrl tbe J'uVjuckinrvi, now, or late,
in ths t.»wnrtiips of Hamden and Warren, and coun
ty of Montgomery. One fonrth ot the p.rckafe
motley is ?o be paid at the time of sale ; for the ic
ftduc a credit of one. two, and three month* will be
ven, on irttereft ahd good security.
Oaode 6. 3 awlS
Pi:ALE'S MuseuM.
' T "HIS valr.abte rcpof.tory of thr works of Na- ;
JL turc, so well calculated to delight the mind |
and enlarge the understanding, is opened daily, as
ui\ta'. It iland« in an airy and healthy iituation, j
and free from the epidemic that at present affliils
the city ; it may, therefore, be frequented with
the greutedfafety.
,'U»n Amufcment, the study of Nature is the
ni.iit rational a»H pleating : 'ai a Science, the moil
fub'.ime and inflruSivc. It elevates the mind and -
expands the heart. They r
" tvlsm Iftrture'z ivcril tan charm, •with (SoJ himftlf K
" Hold £OHVerft." : £
Many interring additions have lately'been !
made to this Muftum : at:d the feathered tribe, j
contai'iing; a variety of the moll rare and beautiful j f
lubjefls, .s now very advantageously arranged, j
Waxen Figures, of Men large as life (foAie of them ' j
calls from nature) are here drcfled in their prcper i
habits, and placed ;n cl'ar ail critic of thtir
refpedlire nations. Here may be f't* the North- j
American Savage, and the Savage of South-Ameri
ca—a laboring Ohinefe, and the Chinese Gentle*
man—the sooty African, and the Kamtfchada.l; —
with some Natives of the South Sea Iflar.ds. 11;:-
ijnmcnfe variety and interefling diversity which
this Muftum offirs to the view, may be fecn but
e-annot b« with full ess.A. '
Prite only l-4th of a dollar.
Seyt. aB. _ r
NOT IC L ~ <
ALL indebted to the ellate of so hN 1
Striker, Ute of Tinnecum TownOiip) <
Buck's County, are rcquefted to pay off their <
rcfpe<aive debfs ; and those having any dc- 1
mands against said eftatc, are desired to bring in 1
their accounts, to
70SEP1J CHAMBERLAIN, e? )Ex ecu- :
MALLMT I'B.EVALT, 5 tors. 1
Sept. sB. f •
Law Book ?tore y 1
Nc. 319, High-Strest.
G E (J R G E DAV IS,
1."»EINO busied for some tims fad in prcpara
-3 tiors'for removing into h:s present house, has
been under theneceflityof poaponinguntil thisda)|
informing the getitlemen ofthe Bar generally thro'
the United States, that his tyring importation of
law books h »ow arranged and ready for laWi on
terms that he trufU will entitle him to thelite prc
freence he h is experienced for ,everal yejrs pad.
Catalogues, fcmblning the moll vnried collcc
tionevjr imported i/ito this country, are printed
and will be delivered on application.
June *7- , - JW 6vv
City CommtJJioners' Office,
June 22, 1797-
IN pursuance of an ordinance from the fcleift
and common councils, pal Ted the ajd day of
May appointing the city cwmimiflioiiers,
and wefci ibing their duties, fe&ion 9th,
NOTJCIi IS HEREBY GIVEN,
That the city is divided into five d!ftri£ts,
each to be under tbe fuperit)tendance of one of
the city commiflicners, ivhois to be individually
relpofifible for the clefiilirfefs of the fame, and
are as follow.
Driftrift No. I. From the south fide of Ce
dar-street, to the north fide of Spruce-fireet, tm
r the fuperißtendence of Nathan Boys.
». Frrm the north fide of Spruce-street, to
,},»■ north fide of Walnut-ftreet,under thefuper
intefidertce of Hugh Roberts.
From the novth fide of VY«liiut to thefouth
fide'of Righ-ftreet, under the superintendence of
joftpb Claypoole.
a. From the north fide of Higb-ftreet, so the
north fide of Mulberry ftrett, under U* super
intendence cf "William Moulder.
r From the north fide of Mulbrrry ftrret to
the north fide of Vihe-ftreet, under the luper
intendence of Nitbolas Hicks.
The cleaningof High-street to be in comraon.
$y A slated meeting of the city comminion
cr9 is held at. tbe Old Court House, in High
ftreet, every Tuesday evening at j o'clock
Tulv 14- ■ foltn —
'Stands for Draymen, SsV.
Jn punaance of an Ordinance from the Select and
Cowmoit Counc ti,bearing date tbe 22d day of
jpril, 1797, providing for the appoint me.* of
C iGommiJJioners, (Sc. Sea. the 15/*.
rrr''HE following places are fixed upon by the
JL said City Commifiioiiers for Stands for
Driyroen and their Hoi fe..
In Yine/ftveet, eastward of l'ront-flreW, on
b °Sa(rafr*'s, Higb.Chefnut and Walnut-fttreets,
eastward of Front-street.on the no.-th fide only.
Mulberry-ftrcet, south fide from Front to
T Front- r |lreir, east fide from Vine-street to
XlfiitVs alley-
Front-Ureet, from opposite to Black Horse »1-
lev to Hamilton's ftoret, east fide-
Water-street» weft fide from the north end of
dinner's or Moore's stores to Pine-street.
PeAn-ftreet from Pipe to Ce iar-itreet, weft
XV' bridge, north fide, east of Front-street.
Spruce, Pirte »'«i South flreets, eall of Frott
ftr DocW^eet, d between Walnut-street and tbe
flag ftonc crolliags, east fide, opposite George
or Second-ftreet, between Saffjiras and Vine
fide from Chefnm to Mul-
from Third ;o Fourth-street,
C " No dray or horse to stand within ten feet of
an ?fSs FOR HACKNEY COACHES.
Pine-street, north fide from Fourth to Fifth
Street, north &dc>bs.twpen Third and
Fourth ftiec'.s. mw& f lm
A Literary Treat.
jfufl published, handfomsly prirtied on writing
paper, price I dollar,
A new edition of that popular an<! entertaining
work, entitled
TPHF. FORESTERS, an Am.-risanTale ; being
L a fecud to the hitiory of John Bull, the Cio
thier—ln afeiiesof letters to a [fiend, with the ad
dition of two letters, alluding to receuc political
tranfa&ions in America.
The following extract from the Clavis Allsgorica,
(hews the principal charailers that arc introduced:
John Bull, the Kingdom of t cglar.d
Hi> Mother, thcChurchof England
His Wife, the Parliament
HUSifter Peg, the Church of Scotland I
His Brother Patrick. Ireland
Lewis, the It ; ngdom of France
HisMiflref;, the Old ConUitutioß
Hit new Wife, the National Representation
Lord Strut, the Kingdom of Spain
Nicholas F/ojr, the liutcli Republic
The Franls, the French Republic
The Foreflers, the United States of AmeritiS
Robert Lumber, New-Hampfaire
John Codline, ."liafl'ucbufetts
Humphrey Plowshare, Conne&icut
Roger Carrier, Rhode Island
Peter Bull Frog, New-York
Julius Ciefar, New-Jersey
William Broadbrim, Pennsylvania
Caflimar, Delaware
Walter Pipewood, Virginia
His Grandibn, George V<afiiingt»»
Peter Pitch, Nwrth Carolina
Charfes Indigo, Soutk Carolina
George T Georgia
Ethan Greenwood, Vermont
Hunter LongUnife, Kentucky
Black Cattle, Nugro Slaves
Rati, Speculators
Mother Carey's Chickens, Jacobin?
j JjF This popular and entcrtainlrujfatirical hifto
, ry cf Amstica it attributed to the Rev. Dr. Bel
knap. It hasa great (hare of originality and a
[ bounds with genuine humour. It is continued
down to the present time, and ehora&erlfej those
late political tranfai&ions which have taufed so
much u»cafinefsin America.
| gold by H. and P. RICE, Bopkfsller, No. 16,
South Second Street, and No. jo, Markc' flaeet.
June 16. §
1 ~ LAW BOOKS,
Latefl London and Dublin Editions.
H. & P. RICE, Bookfsllers,
No. Is, South Second, and No. 50, Market ftrect,
HAVE just received by the lite arrival* from
London and Dublin, [heir fpritg importa
tion, confining of a variety of the lattft ~nd moll
approved Law Books, wijKJ,added %o those alrea
dy on hand, form# the mioftextenfcrc collodion ev
er offered for sale in thw country. therefore
beg leave to notice, that from the nature of tht?ir
, connexions in Dublin, they arc enabled to fyHlvifu
■ editions (as they have hitherto done) it thr? very
lowefl prices. The following are among the late ft
{ publications.
Vefey, jutt'rs Reports in Chancery, 2 \v.«.
P cake's Calet at NiH Prius ; Lley-orU
in the time of Lord Hardwicka ; Flqycr's Probers
PraAice in the Eccleiiaftical Courts ; Barton'*
Trcatife 011 a Suit in Equity ;/Tidd's Practice of
the Court of King's Bench in Personal Anions, 1
part* complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruifc
on Use» ; modern Reports, II vols. London edi
tion.
H. and P. Rice e*pe£ t® receive by the firft ar
s rival from Ncw-Yorfc the 4th vol. complete of
t Dprnford and Haft's Reports, the 2d part of Gil
* bert'sLavr of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
f new publications. \
1 Jjjne 26.
The Hidory of Pennsylvania,
nv ROB2HT PROUD,
i T>s now in the press, and will he published,
I with all convenient expedition, By Zi-CHA
rrah I'oulson, juo. Ko. 8o v Chel'nut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where lubfcriptions will continue
to be received) and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed until the
t work is ready for the lubfcribers.
/ July 18. _ aawtf
The Partnerlhip,
UNDER tlie firm of FREEMAN Company,
is dissolved by mutual confeat. All perfoes
f having any dwnands again A tltefaid House are de
sired to render the fame to T. B. Freeman ; and
1 those indebted to theHovle are desired to make pay
ment to him—By whom business will in future be
•rried on,at his Store, No. J9,South Frout-ftrect.
j" Av%uji 7. eod^w
0 Richard and James Potter
HAVF. removed their Countii® House to No.
45, South Fifth-ftrcet.
h August «.
Lancaster, Harrijburgh Cariijle,
IC Shippenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
0
r . '"p'HE public are req-usfted to take notice, that
X the partnerlhip which htafer fome»ime sub
„ filled betwean Mathias Slough of Lancaster, and
William Geer, i> now d>!?olved: but, not as M.
ij Slongh infinuatesto thepoblic without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the
jeiSl from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 19th
December last. a recital el which it not now deem
ed neceflary. gentVman who wifoes to be
t j more circumtlantially inf.rmed of the nisi its ol
f this hufinefs, by applying to W. Geer miy have
f the pertifil «f M. Slough's letter, and then can he
"■* at full liberty to determine whether or not W
Geer is not perfeAly juftifiabie in attaching him
felf to any other person in the of the
or Stage •nuveyape; frot* Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or *ny other place.
3n Now from tbe liberal and generous fiipport the
public yrm pleased to confer on the firll effort in
t8 > this buGncf., W illiani Goer, in coujur.flion with
[y. MeC'rs. Reily, Weed and Witmcr, is deternnoec
to to profcoute and c'ury it on, with evi ry care, at
tention and difpatchihat a zeal to oblige the pub
to lie ean pofiibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provider
jl- with carriages, horfws, and every appurtenance 'x
render the paflagc t»fe and cotpniotfioue, inforn
of thof* wno wilh to patronize and encourage thi
undertaking, that they ran take their feats a'
e ft George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Montfei
and Friday, to proceed to Laneaflcr, Harriiburg
t Carlisle and Shipponfourg. The fare as hithcrti
'• eflablithrJ. , '
For the further accommodation ol the public
" e a Stage will dart every Wednelday from the houf.
'8 e i 0 f Sarnucl Elder, in Havrifburg, arrive at Run
I bury in Northumberland county, every Thurkiay
ne and' return from thecce and arrive at Harrifbur;
evejy S.aturday, t'o t.Sat paffengcrs deftitied foi
Lar.caftcr or Philadelphia, may proceed Mon
days.
et, WILLIAM GEEK.
. Lancaster, Jan. 27, 1 797-
°* N- B. This i.ine as, StAges Harts from thi
house of William Ferroe, in on ever]
Triefday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clo;k, pro
til ceeding to the weftwardj and Ifbm the houfi o
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harnfburg every Wednef
u t day morning, on the fame evening arrWes ;it Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenilvarg, and return
id from thence on every Thursday : performing tIV
lame routine daily as in it# toy;* ireni Philad J
nhia. nlwi
Will be Landed,
From on board the Cop Aflive, Caj)t.BLAi*,frora A;
Hatnb«igj»i
20 bales white Rufita clean Hemp
z calks Clover ?eed (
For Sale by
Thomas Herman Letiffer, «
North Fifth fl.-eet, No. 34.
Tune »6. I
Young Hyson Tea. L
" 40 cherts of a superior quality—Alio,
100 do. of Ilvfon,
Imported in tiie IVoodrtp Sims, and for f*!e by o(
the fubferiber, corner of Second and Pine U
street. P"
Ci Hai/ht. &
O j-g
Inne it. eolf y
Imported in the Jhip Pigou, je
And fort'ak by jolm Morton, N9. n6, South te
Front street,
Hvf-n ) „
ft» (.TEAS ol
loung Uyion C
Imperial J w
April eo. eotf c
Thomas Armat and Son,
OF PHILADELPHIA,
INFORM their cuflomers and public, they
have removed a part cf their raf rchandize to
Wilmington : Alio, they have their ftorc open in ( !
the 6ity. At either place their friend* can be fyp- t ,
plied, and their orders carefully attended to- 3'
By the C»mi»erland, from Hull, they have re- tl
ceived a handfora* aflTanrfment of m ticks, suitable t j
to the approaching season ; and txpeA to add to it M
by other fall fhij 5.
Should the (icknefs prevail in th? central part of «
the city, tliat branch of their bufmefs will be re- «
moved to Gerroaßtown. «
The communication by post i» open and re* <«
gtiiar as wfual. V*
Sept. 18. thtf
TO BE SOIL) VEWZHEA'FJ \
A Light W A GGON almost new, with a frame— 1
and a pa'r of (Englifrt collars) has never 1J
been used price 90 Dot!s>
A Horfc 16 hands high, seven years «ld—and a '
new chair, with a falling top and harness— 320.
lt . Enquire No. 331, Market-flreet
Angufl 24. diw
i'aie or to be let on ground
rent,
' 2
J,valuable Lot of Ground }
QITyATE on the north-eift coiner of W»l
---nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State- '
House fqviare. ThU lot is fifty-one feet front ;
on Walnut street, and rhe hundred and. thirteen '
feet and an half on Firth street ; there are at
prci'ent two small two story brick houfet, and a
number of i'mall tenements thereon.
Also, for Salt,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, Bn. Stuate on
Water-street, between Mulberry and S+fTafras
streets, containing in front on Water street Cf
ty-fotir feet, and continuing that breadth east
ward nine:y-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These bouses
ave the convenience of a public alley adjoining
on the north fide, and are a very deftrable situa
tion for a merchmt, flour faflor,or others who
' may have cccafioh for storage of goods. This
property will be fold on very reafortable torm»
for eaih. For further information apply to the
piinter.
July ji. *Jcwtf
TOBES O L D,
Andpojjtjjion given immediately,
ALARGi'. two story brick House, handsomely
fituatedin Princeton Th«rcare lour rooms
and a large entry on each floor, and five rooms in
t(ie garrt t, a range of back buildings 51 feet in
larngth, and a piarzaof 57 feet. 1 licie is a pump
in the yard, an excelleut kitchen garden, at the
farther end of which are a carriage haufe and two
stables, one of which it new, 44 feet long, with
flails in the two stables for 27 haifes. The heal
, thioefs and pleafanttcfs 0; its fitaation, and the
1 : number of genteel and agreeable families in and
' j near the to*n, reader it a desirable retreci'.t for a
■ gentleman from the city. The commodioufucfs of
• > the house, it? central polTtion, and the largenrfs of
: | vheflables.makeit every wayfuitableferat»vern,for
• which it has alwajs been confiderd as a capitil
ftiiad. Inquire on the premises, of
ISAAC SNOWDEN.
Princeton, Ang. 2.5. "-<) —dtwiawtf
—
City of Wattling ton.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Fed,■ml City.
A m3jnifice:itd',v tiling-house- 1,0,00 a dollar?,
,t ; & cadi jo,oio f ire 50,000
I ditto ir.ooo & ca!% 25,000 40,1100
d 1 ditto 15,000 & rash 15,000 30,000,
[. 1 ditto 10,000 ca'h 10, oog jo,ooo
; 1 ditto 5,000 & cast 5,100 10,000
1 1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
li I calli pr:s; of ro,ooo
» do. 5,000 ejeh,are ■ 10,000
L 10 dro. 1,000 - - 10,00 c
- jo,ooo
00 do. 100 - - io,oijo
f do. 50 ■ " 10,000
400 do. . 2 j - - j 0,000
e l,oo& do. 20 - 20,000
p. 15,00 a doi 10 - 150,000
e 16,739
n 33,261 Blanks
d 50,000 Ticket*, at F.igV.t Dollars, *OO,OOO
)- ■ N. B. Toi'avour thofewhu may tak'eaonan
' tity ol Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will te
d the last drawn ticket, a-ndthc 30,000 the last
o but ofcs :
n And approvednotes, feedingpaynaent Jneither
ic moity ot'prises, in ten days alter drawing, will
*t be received for any number not lefsLhan 30 tick
e, ets.
iy This Lottery will afford an el«gant specimen of
? , the private to be ert&ed in the City o(
:o Waihinpon—Two beautiful defies are already
lei.-fled fbi- the etiir'-fronts en two oT'lte public
c, squares; from these dr'a'wiw^it ispropefedtoereel
Cc two centre and 'our corner laildings.as scon asfof
-- fiblc after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
y, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers,' in
tj the manner defcribrd in the fclicmc for the. Hotel
jr Lot%y. A next deduSion of five per cent, will
1- be n-. vde to defray theneceffary expenses of print
ijto, scc. at:d the furplut will be made a part of
<he fund mtumJed for the Natianal Umveriity, to
be erected within the city of Washington.
1G The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the
■ y Urines, are held liy-the President and two DireA
j. ors of the Bank of Colusihia, and are valued at
,f more than half the amount of the lottery,
j-. SAHUSL BLODO£T.
1 _ Tickets may be had at the Bink ol Cclim
ls - bI Failed Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter
ie .Oilman, Bofion : of Joho Hopkins, Uichmcnd ;
J. fund of Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry.
anvf
This Day Publilhed, S
And to be fold by WILt.I AM YOUNG, soraer of
Second a*nd Ohefnut "streets,
Price 3-B'ths of a Dollar,
Observations on certain Documents j"
Containt-l in No. V nnd VI of
" The History of the United Slates for SC
the year 1796," on
In whieh the ch arc*. or speculatiow against an<
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Uecrkiarv of the Trcasuht, is FULLY , '
REFUTED.
WRITTEN nr HIMS St F.
TMs publication prelsnts a concise ftiteraent
of the '>afe means praiHfed by the Jacobitis of the W[
United Btates to af»eVf<J the charaAer. of thofa
psrfons who arts confidired as hostile to their difor- |,i o
ganizing schemes. It also contains tlie cor- t }, (
refpondence between Mr. Hamilton and MelTrs. p u
Monroe, Muhl'cnburgh and Venable, en the f'.iH
jedl of ths documents aforel'aid, and a scries of let- I gf
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr.Ha- ;
milton, proving beyoud the poflibility ol a.doubt, j
that the connexion between him and ReyjjpWs,
was the result of a daring confpinwy on the part
of the latter and his associates to extort money. j
A difenunt of one third from the retail price " r
wiU be made ift favor oi wholefaie purchasers, for
casu. Orders to be addrefTed to Mr Vobno *
No. c<
Diflrict of Pennsylvania, to wit : .
, I>E li"' RKMEMJJI.RED, that on the
(1.. s.) J-j tweßt y jjy 0 f July, in the twen
ty second year of the in4ejcnleuce of the United
States of America, JsriN F«nno, of the said dif- q
triA.hath depoGted in thisofiice the title of a book,
the right whereof he claims as proprietor, in the
wOrdt following, to wit r—
" Obfeivations on certaia documents contained 1
" in No.'. . and VI. of "The History of the Uni
t" ed States for the year in which the charge
" of speculation, againll Alexander Hamilton,latf
" Secretary of the Treafnry, is fully refuted—
" Writtep by himfcif "
In conformity to the a<sl of thcCor.grcfs of the t n '
Ueited States, entituled, "All a3 for the encout- "
agenient of learning, by securing the copies of
maps, charts and books to th<- autkors and propri- /'
ctors of such copies, during times therein mea- £[
tioßed." .
SAMUEL CALDWELL, f
Cltrk of iht Diflrtß tj Ptnttfyfoa*:*.
W4W i
An elegant House in Arch Street. i
TO be let alid entered on immediately a large »
and elegant house at the Corner of Arch and ?
Ninth Street. There are two drawing rnmni T
and one dining room—the largelt is yt feet by ''
26—-and two are so conn«Std by folding doors
as to make but one. Also, five bed rooms, be- f
fides sin the garret, tvsll finifhed for servants. c
There are stables and a co*ch house, with evry j
convenience for a funnily. Enquire at No. 29, c
in North Seventh street, or at No. 218, Arch j
Street. ' <
Aug. t«. <
William Blackburn,
LOTTERY Asn BROKER'S OFFICS. >
No. 64 south Sccoßd-r.reet.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 11, wfcich
eommanced drawing the 29th May, l ; OR
SALE. The price of tickets will rife in propor
tion as the drawing advances, particularly on ao
count of the five lirft drawn tickets, prizes qf
four thousand dollars each, on the l»ft day at
drawing.
; 1 Chec* Books kept Tor examination and regiftcr
. ing, in the Canal, No. 2, City of Wa2iington.No.
a, and Paterfon Lottories. j
Also, tickets forfalcin the SchuylkiUbridge and •
Perk*ometi Bridge lotteries, which wiU begin
drawing in the course of the summer.
The bufmefs of a Broker in all kinds of 3tock,
Bills, Notes, Lands, stc- See. tranfailed with the
utmost aztenticn.
5 j urn* 2 tu & f
1 Erfkine's View of the~War.
)
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No 40 South Second street, i
I [Price 31 Citntsj
1 A View of the Causes and Consequen
ces of the present War with Frcny?.
By the Honorable Thomas Ebskine.
r May 15 v i 5
STATE TRIALS,
Sold b W.Young, Bookseller, No. 5», 6outh S«-
cond-llrect,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
CONtaining the intpeachment, trial,and acqnit
al of I r rancisHopkinfon, JujgeoftlyeCoi.rt of
1 Ju; irall y, and Joly 1 Nidiolfon, Consp»roller Oen
er#—ln one large ? vo. vol. Price, in boards, J
dollars.'
W. Younc has for sale, a general alTortmeut.of
Books. Also, Stationary, retail and hj the -pack
et ege, well iflorted, and entitled to th? drawback ;i
in nxpistted. July «— * L
Hl For Sale,
10 That well known place, called VANQF.aßtff's
>o i- b R a Y,
JO /"*N NeHiaminy creek, 18 jrriiles from Phih
yy ladclphia, on the New York port road,
io containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
3C prttnifes are a large two story stone hcul'e ort u
-30 pied as atverli, and a good one story done kit-
JO ch'en, A large frame liable with agt>od threshing
,0 floor, and feme out buildings —also a well of
jo good water, and an excellent ice House. Oti
,0 this plafe is a most elegant situation fora geutle
-30 man's feat, commanding a view of the fs'efhain
iry toitsjunilion wiih the Delaware, and thence
across to the Jersey fiiore. ?t has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge. ,
_ For terms apply to the SaWenber,
00 MORDECAI LEWIS.
24. itaivtf. ■
hi COLUMBIA HOUSE"
ST Boarding School for young Ladies.
, cr -tl GIIOOMBUIDGE with much plcaf-
Ul iVi. ure and refpea, returns her sincere ac
:lj. knowledgemcnt for the liberal
(be hac received during four years reiidenee in
of Philadelphia ; and allures her friends ami the
01 public, so far from intending to decline her
dy I'ebopl, she has-rtiide a.i'upenocarrangement for
lie tlie 'more convenient aicommodaiion of her
:ct scholars.—Every branch of lijclul and polite
as - education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
«h Groombridge mid inaflert eieeliing iu their
' n refpeftiveprofrftions.
Tel • Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June ?th, 17»>7-
The Htuatinn is perfeelly healtky ; and made
0 more agreeable by an exter.five garden and lot
10 of grr.ur.d adjoining (he lioule.
a. Jujl Published,
at Ahd to be hid of Messrs. Dobfon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal Booksellers in t'u
city,price oiie dolla'f, twtnty-five cents,in boards.
-1- New Views of the Origin of the
; er Tribe* and Nations of America.
By"BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, w. n.
June 20.
School Books and Sta.tio.urr.
W. Y 51} N G,
No. ?2, Sccotid-Sreet, corner of Chefnut-ftreet,
HAS now ready for sale, a very large afiort
mcnt of Eh.HJq, French, Latin and Greet
SCHOOL BOOKS. Alfa, such elementary to»ti
on Science, as are generally read is the aca£tunt"«
and colleges throughout the United Statej.
LATELY PUBLISHED,
Sheridan's Diftionary, the sixth edition, ia one
large vol. 8 vo price 3 dols.
Ditto, larg: 12 mo price 1 dol. 75 cts.
Ditto, co.TiKioo, price I dol. 50 cts.
All forts of drawing, packing, printing, and
writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards, Palteboardi,
sheathing and blotting Papers ; printed Blanks,
blank Books, Wax, Wafers, and other articles, of
the belt quality, used in the counting house, or
public office,
£*s" Catalogues of a mifcelianeous cplleflion of
fiOOXS, with tie price of each affixed, to be had
by inquiring as above. OA. 24. —-3aw6v."
JuJl Pulli/hcd, and noiv Selling,
By BENJAMIN DA VIES,
At hit B'>ok-?!tore, No 68, High-Street,
The AMERICAN REPOSITORY
AND
ANNUAL REGISTER fir tteUNITED STATE&
fCJR THE YEAR 1 :
Containing complete-sud correfl lifts of the Execu
tive, I cgiflative and'furiiciary
DEPARTMENTS of government,
And a variety of ufeful tables, ncceflary to be
known in every State of the
F,tu!t<iWjhtd T.'itb bauttfome E *pm*
One of which is depiflive of a raelanchoiy scene
that occurred during the American wai:.
Oct. 18. ________
The Philadelphia, Atfion, ancl 1 uokerton
mail stag e!
THR proprietors beg leave to inform the public t thai
they have efcblijhed a Stage between Philadelphia
Atfion, Bat(lo, Hamp tin, Speedwell, and Martha Fur
note, Wading River fitting mill, and the town of TucL
'* erton, ijt to go once a and arc provi
ded with good horses, a comfortable carriage, and a care
ftl driver, fcr the conveyance of the mail, 'p offenders, end
gcode. The Stage twill fart every Thurfhy, at I®
o'cod, A. My from Mr. Daniel Cooper's Ferry, and
lodge that night at foci Bodine's, at Lcngacoming ; and
cn on Friday, at 6 o'clock, P. JVf. arrive at Celeb E
vans's, in keeper, in TucLerton, dif, ant frout the city 54
miles, (from the Atlantic 6, and from the Eaf Groufdg
Plains J'miles J where are good accoizsroa'ationt for tra
veller s, and where are commodious and fofe paffege boats
provided to corny pciffcngers to Capt. William War
rington s house, on Tucker s JJland, ajjoinining the At
lantic, it here aft good accommoaations, and a convenient
place to bathe ; the sportsman tube wijhes to regale himfelf
wiib fowling end fjhing, may at this place be hi[fitly gra
tified, there being at altnef every feafin of tbt year fowl
andfjh in abundance .—•'The Stage on its return, farts
from the aforefaii C, Evans's in Tu chert on, every T.uef
-1 day, at 6 o'clock, A. M. breikfirfs at jife Bodies, at
' Wading River Bridge, lodge that night at Lovgacominv,
and at I • clock, P. M. on IVednefday, arrive at the
aforefaid Cooper s Ferry. It is presumed that no route of
an difiance 'will be less expenjivc, or furnifh tie tra
veller with <x greater variety of atftafement, as he will
not only have a pleasant fail to the Atlantic from Tucker
tern, but have tbt cvriofrty of feeing on the road thither a
number of capital fterraces and forges, and one flittiig
mill, in complete order, and at work ; gentlemen, too, who 1
are owners, or fa&ors, of any of the aforefaid iron wot Is,
lw are soli cited to encourage and support this fags (by white
£ they can be so wellaecommoda'ed) the continuance of whica
will much depend on their aid. The rates of pejfengens
and baggage are as follows : For a pajftnger from tie
aforefaid Daniel Cooper s Ferry to Tuckerion, including
) 14 lb. of baggage, T%ao Dollars ; for way pajfengers
per mile, Ftvr Cents— 150 lb. rf baggage equal to a prf
j ' fencer. m Pof age of litters, newfpapert, \sc. will it
n agreeably to law.
N. B. The mail creffetfrom the Old Ferry.
c THOMAS IVARDLE Co.
I Tueherton, S'p--
The Norfolk Mail STAGE.
- r I~ T HiS Stage starts from the GEORGE Tavern,
1 jrt the corner of Seconil and Arch Streets, :n
PhiUdtlphia, » very Tin flay, Thursday, aud Satur
day, nt 2i o'clock, in the rrcrmr.g ; arrives at nb
ver the fij'ft day, at Sngwhni the second day/at
Nonliampton Court Houle the third day, and oa
the morning of the fourth day tke paflengers find
a fafc and coEiCbrtebi* packet to convey them to
1 „ Noi folk.
A packet !eare« Norfolk for Northampton ferry,
'• every ThurHay and Saturday, and the
Staje ftartsfrom ferry for Philadelphia, every
Moji#'ay, Wednelday and Friday ; puts up at Sno\V
Hill thl.firft might, at Dover the id night, and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening oi the third
day.
Th»diftance on this rout'',between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is So miles less tlian on any stage fdUtC
between those places
it- Too much cannot hefaid in favor of the road,
of which is mcic excellent indeed. The proprietors
n- wiUingly engage to Fetnrn the whole fare to any
, 3 wi o, after having performed this route,
will lay that he ever travelled in a stage for the fame
of distance, so good a road in America.
fc,r Anpuft 11. dirrueotf.
Window Glass-,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper thau any oih#r ia
theCitv —
* OF rjiuops SIZES,
From 8 by 6 to jc) k»y 14,
By the Box or Quanii'.y, rjiay had at the
d, store Of ihfc Subscribers, eoruer 0/ Arch -2d FroriXf
he ilrect. v
u- James C. SiWlutlW. Fijher,
It" l')nyp, 1 - 1 -1 'ATf>wfrP
3 Chocolate arid iVii.rtjjkrd
j-' 11 Msi'.'jfafTtured as nftial,
,e " Gincer and ISjbm grtiurwl
,n " Phrlle<i or Pearl Barley'
ice Bhiladelj)hia Porter, Be<r, Al« and Cyd^
London Porter
Taunton and Burton Ale
Red Portend other Wines, eithe bottled*
or by tar p pe, qairter-callt or pallon—fuitib,)*
fcirexportation or home conlimia;ion—
i'or Ss|rby
'John Hcnwrth.
S. No. fo'ii'u Frr-r* street
£ thTsubscriber's;
;Bt ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GREEBLEAr,
is HEREby (live notice, that t'»ev have difjio:<|f
he of U»e piopei ty assigned to them i'or the feourmjt
ler the pavmer.r of the i.otr, acccrtinc( t, and tr
for (JorijnienU given by l!dwaid I'o.x, (or tße use
ier of the raid James Greelyleai'jj and the holders of
;itc such notes, acceptince?, and endorfernents, are
rs. hereby notifyed that tl.e iubferiberi fettle
cir *ith them for the amount of their refp;'£»ive
claims, both principal and interest, at
any time before the 2cth day of Oflober next ;
after which' djw, the holders not applying, will
ide b»exduded, agreeably to the terms of afljgn
lot merit.
Applications to be made at south-cast comer
of Doc-k and Second streets ( the Dock-street
fide), between the hours of eleven and one o*
;', rfoek every day, Sundays encepted.
T V . Henry Pratt,
■ds. The. IV. Frances
he "John Miller, Jun,
' John JJhley,
\ Jacob Baker.
I PhiUdelphja,A.nguft i!i, 1797. C