of t?sc sD Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1623 j
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DRY GOODS.
C Forenoon —Edward Fox, No. 56,
M , ) south Front-street,
08 Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 65
(_ South Front-street.
f' Forenoon—John Counetly, Old City
r r i j Auflion, No. 73 south Front-street.
ue S a y~\ —William Shannon, No.
(. 183 Hfgh-ftreet.
rxr j,n {Afternoon —Peter iflenfon, No. 74
mdtefiU) ') s oUth Third-flrcet.
ij-- r , C Forenoon—Edward Fox.
j nurjaay | Afterneon—John Connelly,
r. j , } Forenoon—William Shannon.
r ' ) Affernoou—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Bcnfon.
Musical Injlrument Manufactory,
167, Arch-preet.
TO THE LOVF.RS OF HARMONY.
HARPER,
I INFORMS his friend* and the public, that he has '
now ready for sale, a few of his new invented,
and much admired fide board Piano Fortes, with
Pedalv. pater t swell, fonopahant and French harp
flop, which for sensibility of touch, britliaacy of
tone, simplicity a*id durability of conftru&iop, the
fwperiority of which,he flatters himfelf, a Gngle tri
al will convince the unprejudiced judge—As they
arc manufa&ufed undcf his immediate infpe&ion,
rf the very be.*: seasoned materials, he can fell on
rcafonabk terms for Cash. Inftramsnts repaired,'
tuned, &c.
N. B. Second hand Piano Fortes taken in ex- ;
chaige for new.
novemher 18. 2aw2mo.
" "FOR sale; "
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. 55, the corner of Chefnut and Front streets,
A large quantity of Clocks and
Watches. Also, a general nflortment of Tools,
Eiles and Materials, coafifting of Clock Move
ments, eight day and thirty hour brass pinions
and serge work ; Bells, clock aad watch Dials,
Springs, Hands, Glasses, Pu-nice Stone, Emery,
Rotttn Stone, Cat Gut; bench, Hand and tail
Vice 1 *; Turns, Pliers,Chains,Seals,Keys, &c. &c.
* # * Apprentices Wanted.
' novemtcr 3. f&tutf
>or Sale by the Subscribers,
Primt Rice in whole and half tierces
Bout deaux Brandy
Tttnerijft Wine
Mo/a/f'j
Georgia and Carolina Indigo
Ravens Duck and one hog/head of paiit
brU/bes.
N. (3* y. Frazer.
No. 95, Sonth Front Street;
Nov. 7. dim-
ROSS &t SIMSON,
' HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Coflas, and
a quantity of Bmgal COTTON
Bengal tiUGAR, in bags and boxei
Jamaica,
St. Vincents, > RUM.
and j
300 calks RICE, tnd
A parcel of (hip building RED CEDAR.
Oct. 27. $
Samuel & Miers Filker,
ARE NOW QPEKING,
At their Warehouse, No. 27, Dock Street, a frefn
afibrtment of Woolen and other goo'!s, fui tabic to
the fenfon, received by the late arrivali from Hug
land.
Tbe\ have also fur Sale,
Lifbou, ~\
and ( ' n pip cs >hh&>. ant * quarter calks-
Port Wines, j
Aflorted queen's ware in crates, See.
Io h mo- 23d. drw3taw.\ w.
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. De l,:t GRANGE,
No. lie Walnut-street,
INFORMS those who wilh to recur to th> only
means of becoming perse& in the French Lan
guage, that he has jutl opened his Libr art, con
fiding of upwards of 1250 volumes, the beil cal
culated to afford cither ufeful inftruAion, or pica
fure. Th<? conditions, together with a catalogue
of the Library, may be seen at every book-feller's
im town.
n. b. /\ll translations from and into the French,
Englilh and Spanilh Languages, executed with ac
curacy and dispatch. eoim nov. 15.
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL prefems his
most refpe.ilful compliments to his firm
er employers and the citizens in general, an 1 re
turn-- his most j grateful thanks, for the very
bountiful encouragemeut he has experienced for
these tv/enty-five years past, takes thisopportu- |
nity of informing them, that his school will be
cpen'd on Wednefdaythe ajd instant, at his
Elegant Ball Room,
in South Fourth-Street, between Chtfnut and
Walr.nt-ftreets. To begin at lo in the morning
for young ladies, and i in the evening for young
gentlemen.
jp" Pradlifmg Balls will commence on Tues
day, 6th December, and be .continued every
Tuesday, during the season.
Nov. 17. lawtf.
For Sale by the Subscriber,
White Plattillas
Brown Hollands
White Sheetings
Dowlafles
Silesia bordered Handkerchiefs
Striped Siajnoufes
Hlack Ribbons, No. 3 and 4
Glass Tumblers, and Looking Glaflcs, in
in cases, &c. ftc.
[George Pennock.
no-vember 6. eod; w
Teas of superior quality.
80 cheHs fine Hyson
45 ch.fls yeung Hyson
4 chelts Imperial
For Sale, comer of 2econd and Pise streets, by
C. HAIGHT.
*>m •e w hern. '■''^'tl
'1 he Office of Secretary of State
OF THE UNITED STATES,
IS removed to No. 13. South Fifth street, near
Chefnut street. jt ■>». ! ®-
PHILADELPHIA.-' TUESDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER zr, ijg 7
Five years old Madeira Wine,
OF the very firft quality, in pipes, lihds. and
quarter caiks, just landed from the Ihi). Edward,
from Madeira, and for sale by
JOHN CRAIG,
No. it, Dock-ftrcet.
WHO HAS FOR CHARTER,
JjWlk CH A RLOTTE,
Burthen about iiOp barr-'s,
jfti 1 1,. j u (\ h OV e down and put in com
plete order, and now ready to receive a cargo.
Also, For SALE- or CHARTER y
JOS EPH U S,
® urt^cn a kout lßoobafrel6.
nevembcr 6. 4
Wanted to Charter,
To one port in Hifpaniola and back
illlP&jSyA faft failing Vessel, of the bur
then of 6 or 700 liarreU For terms, apply to
Benjamin Morcan.No. po, South Front ttreet,
or to ROBERT AXDREWS,
No. 86, South Wharves.
mnemlter 10. §
Philip Nicklin Ssf Co.
HAVE FOR SALE,
At their Stored oa Walnut street Wha*f,
HavaivnahSugars, whiteandbrown
25 hhds Jamaica do.
30:0 nieces of broad Nickeens
Imperial Tea, in quarters and eighths of chefls
Qukkfilvir in tubs
Madeira Wine in pipes and hogfticzds
I'eneriffe Wine in pipe?
Old xed Port Wine in hogsheads
Sail Canvass, assorted, No. I to 8
8 cases of Mauchefter Goods, confifling of Dimities,
Muflincts, Cringham*,Thick.iVtts, Corduroys, &c.
200 crater Queens' Ware, assorted
Nails, affoyted
Black quart Bottles
Yellow Ocrc in calks
A quantity of writing S'.ates, slate Ink Stands, &e.
ICO quarter calks Gun Powder
Ibef ba"9« alfof*r SALE or CHARTER,
HAMBURG PACKET,
Burthen 3»o tons, coppered to
.JSHpSHBtk the bends, and completely fitted.
TheJhip MOLLY, burthen 340 tons, a
good veflef, and completely fitted.
The brig AMAZON, burthen 1300 bar
rels, may be ready (or fca in a few days.
The whole of the above veffeli to be fcen. at
Walnut street Wharf. § «<m. ic.
For Sale or Charter,
j5pL GOOD HOPE,
carry about nco barrels, and
is ready to take in a cargo. For terms
Pragers y Co.
No. 151, Scu?h Secend-ftrect.
Who have for sale—prime St. Croi* Sugar and
Rnm, Madeira, Lisbon, and Tenerifie wine.
November 7. , 1 . dtf.
For Hamburgh, '
The Ship
jjAg- WILMINGTON,
Captain Hilman ;
C\ lidclphia built veh'el, of
live oak and cedar, is now iu ce.v.pLete order, and
will fail with all pofiibleYpeed, haviny great part of !
her cargo already engaged. For freight or pas
sage (having eicdlenf accommodations) ipply to
tlie captain on board, or to
Summer I & Drown.
IVho have on hand,
Gonaives Cotton, Sugar, Mo
lafles, and a few thrmfand weight of excellent Cor
dagc, including fcveral Cables of
novr.mber 3. tuth^gatf
l 1 or London,
WTLL/"M H P£AW,
James Jofiah, Mafler,
/" ILI « 41 ' wit ' l a " co»ven
5 £?££&*?• VV ient expedition. For
Freight or Paflige, apply to t'-e Captain, er to
JeJft & Ribcrt Wain.
OQ. si. §
For London,
rJT2r\*. THE SHIP
Daniel M'Phcrfon, Majler.
TO fail with all convenient speed—a confidera
blc part of her carpo beiMg already engaged.
FOl terms of Freight or Passage, apply to
Rofs & Simfon.
o<fl. 27. 6
Port and Madeira Wine,
Now Landing,
By (hip Edward, from Madeira, and Betsey and
Peggy, freax Oporto, in Pipes and Hoglheads,
For. fate by
PETER BLIGHT.
WHO ALSO OFFERS FOR SALB,
*55. The Ship
jyp§|T AMITY,
Four thousand barrels burthen,
Si&xxixsistSliZin excellent order—ready to take
in a cargo —about three years old.
LIKEWISV,
The Schooner Industry,
Burthen Zoo barrels, ready also to receive a car
go—and a quantity of
Jamaica Rum and Sugars,
Jufl landed from the above velfels at South flrett
wharf. eotm. Nov. t.
For Charter,
THE SHIP
John Bulkley,
fldSk Samuel Volans, Majler.
• ■ rH^J 'HIS vessel is built cf liveoa'i
' i an 1 cedar, of about 30c o
barrels burthen, and rtady to receive on board a
cargo.
Jeffe y Robert Wain.
oa. 31. ' ' §
By John Fen no, N q ' 119 Chefnut Street
For Londonderry,
THE BRrGANTINS
mg£ SUKEr,
William WhiTTen, Mafler.
hundred fans, to fail with all conrerjiepf' ipeed, a
great ipart of her cargo erfgUg'ed—now lying at
WiWiny; and Francis** whatf: 1 f©r freight or pal
fagc> apply to tiic captain, or
JOHN SKYRIN,
Landtnhcrgtr s txharf.
Who wants to Charter.
A Vessel of about three jhundred ton 3.
ttOTJ ''S
i-or bavannah, in Georgia,
THE SHIP
Sally Butler,
Captain Chisholm,
A new velfei, with excelleat
3CComm („i a tions for paflengers—
Sail" on the 10th of December. For Freight or
Railage, apply to RO?S \af SIMSON.
l'Vt>9 have to dfnfe
A small invoice of SALTS
INDIGO, and a parcel of HOLLY WOOD.
tioifgnzber 18.
i' or Hamburgh.
The Brig MARY,
Pet En York, mafler,
i Lying at R.uirel's'wharf, near Pipe
- is now ready ro take in
Cargo, an<l will fail ic tea da£s.
Fo- Freight, or Paflage, apply to
GURNKY & SMITH.
November t6.
Rundle tf? L^F-CH,
Have ju'il received, antl c, at no~9,
Wakiut-ftreet,
Liverpool and St. Übes SALT
Do. heft house CO \ LS
Queens* WARE in cases, aflorted
Bourdeaus BRANDY of an excellent quality
Do. CLARET in cases, do.
thfy <Xve also
For S ALE or char ter>
P E' G""G Y,
Burthen 215 tony, in excellent condition, and
may be feat to sea with little expenceor delay.
LIKEWISE,
WILLIAM,
TV'T' Burthea aoi tons,
nuvemier 16. J r
For Sale or Charter,
failing brig
Two Brothers,
. Lying at Gurling's wharf,
an excellent finale dcck'd vessel, burthen about
1600 barrels—rot twelve months old, and in
cnmpleat order. For terms apply to the mailer
on board, or to *. ■ . . .
Joseph Anwony czf Lo.
No v. _ _ diw.
For Liverpool,
v The Ship
CLOTHIER,
Nathaniel D. Gardner,majler,
\TTIIX fail about the 15th
VV infl. For freight or paf
hre apply to the Captain, at Vanuxeni's wharf,
or to JAMES m.DDF.N,
nov. 7. dtf No 41. N Frort-ftrert.
James Richard Smith,"
r ~J^AK ( E the libery of informing their f rieads
i. aud ? public, Aat they have removed their
ft ore to 4, South Frtnt jlrcet, next d»or to Ed
ward Fox's Auction Ucorr., where have at
thU time for sale, a large and general alTortment of
European & Ecjl India Goods,
sdany fcf which are just imported iir tlw Clothier,
Wjlliam Penn, &c. &c.
oa.t 7 - S-
Samuel l J leafants cjf Sons,
No. 74, South Second-Jlrcet,
HAVE received a lupply of Seasonable GOODS,
which arc now epcaing for sale, on
reafonahle terms. OA 27. —4 W
Wanted, to Hire,
A Large and convenient HOUSE, in or near
"he centre of the city—f6r which a generous
rent will be given; to be taken for a year , or on
more for a longer term. Inquire ©f tfca Printer.
OA. 17. «° tf
FOR SALE,
A Team of five excellentHorfes,
with a Wcgiron and Gears. The Horses are all
voting, strong, true to the dravghN and capable
of hauling a 9 great a weight as mott in the coun
try. The Waggon and Gears are strong, and
in good order. Apply to ROBERT GfyEEN,
Weft T«wn, Chester county, or*!®
Thomas Eijher,
No. 141, S. Seeond Street, Phila 'elphia
11 mo. i, ' eod,}w.
All Persons,
INDIBTED to theEftateof Jossjh Johk
son, of" Germantown, in the county of Phi
ladelphia, deceased, are desired to mike imme
diate payment, and those who have anyxlemands
against laid eltate, ate desired to bring forward
their accounts to either of the fubfsribers.
ELI&ABETH JOHNSON,")
JOHN JOHNSON, Jtin. > AdminiilrY
JOHN JOHNSON, )
Germanjtown, 10th. mo. 27th, 1797*
Ofl. qt. ft.it.
All Persons who are indebted t°
the eftatc of William Hevsham, fen of Phil a "
ddphia, deceased, are scquefted to matte speed)'
payment; and those who have any demand* a"
jjaintt faiJ eltate, Will plcr-fe to present them, pro
perly attcfled, to the fubferiber*.
William Heylham, '■
Robert Hey/ham. J- Executors.
Francis Bowes Sayre, J
xovtmbir i. 4aw4w
ro BE LET,
A spacious dry floored Cellnr,
at the N. E. corner of 4th and Arch-streets.
Nov. 13, d^t
N OTIC E.
rH£ guardians of the poor particularly reqwft
all persons indebted for poor taxes to nay
the fame to th:e Collectors when called on. The
increale of the poor, owing to the late calamity,
che B'>ard trust. will indtlcc the persons indebted,
to atrend to thisrequeft.
By f fder of the Board,
PETER MIERCKEN, President.
fouthwarli, Nr.v. 17. d^t.
"Evening school. '
S. Lewis
INFORMS the Public, that his Evening
School will open on Monday next, for the
winter season, at No. 201, Arch Street.
Nov. 16. *d3t.
"IVANT ED to~~RENT, r
A Coach House and Stable,
For four Horses, in the neighborhood of Fifth
and Arc.h streets Apply to Mr. F.VANs.at 129
Arch street. jt ««. 16-
A youngMan,who is acquainted
v;ith account*, wishes employment. He will give
security for any trufl. reposed in him, and
mendations if required. Should tufinefs offer
where extra hours of attendance- are necclfary, he
would have no,obje&iot\—a falary would not
fce expected—a line directed to B- B. and left at
tiii3 olHce, will be attended to.
nov 15. * ?♦".
St. Croix Sugar Rum,
For Sale by
JOHN NIXON fef Co.
OS: 16. d2w.
NO 1 ICE.
The holders of certificates of a
loan to the exiled citizens of ths State of South Ca
rolina and Gesrgia, under an aSt of, Congtefs 23d
July, T 781, are informed, that by lodging the fame
with George Simpfon, Calhiei of the Bank of the
United State*, they will be enabled to receive pay
ment of principal and interest, asfoon as the certi
ficates can be forwarded to Charleston for fetWo
ment, and orders received for their discharge.
November 1. 6t
" NOTICE.
AI.L persons concerned are hereby notified,
that the fobferiber intends to apply for a re
newal of the undermentioned loft certificates of
Stock in the Bank of ths United States—He fori
warded them under cover of a letter addrelTed to
John Anfley.of London, by the lhip Bacchus, capt.
George, which left this port in June last for Lon
don. But that (hip having been captured on her
pafiage and sent to France, the above letter and in
clofurc have failed in their deftinatiou.
Three certificates, vii.
• Nos. 26325, 26326, 26327, each for
four (hares, dated January ill, 1797* an< i
iflued in the name of Henry Grace, of Tot
tenham Highcrofs, Great Britain.
ZACCHEUS COLLINS.
Philadelphia, november 8. iaw6w
Notice to Creditors.
WHEREAS Jofiah W. Gibbs and William
Gibbs, did on the 91b day of June laft,af
fign 'to the fubferibers, all their property for the
benefit of their creditors, this is to give notice
to all the creditors of the above firm, tha' all
their books, as well as the flatement of their
concerns, are lodged with John D. Blanchard,
V.o. 6, South Third Street, for their infpeftion,
aud alio the discharge which i, to be finned by
all those creditors who wi(h to receive ths bene
fit of faiit affignmcnt.
All persons indebted to the said firm, are here
by notified to pay their refp-dlive debts to the
said John D. Blanchard, who is fully authorized
to receive and fettle alt their accounts.
JOHN D. BLANCH A KD.
JAMES VANUXiiM.
A. BUTLER.
Nov. ts< rnwf.tt.
10 Gentlemen who intend /pending
the Winter in the City.
ROOMS to LET,
WITH or without Board—at No. 114, corner
of Sixth and Race Streets. The situation
agreeable—and vicinity has been free from the late
contagion. G<3 f a7 —dtf
Landing this day,
From on board tha schooner Two Friends, Dan
lei Crawley, -Matter,
80 hhds. and / J ama j ca RUM,
ia pipes ) J 7
FOR SALE BY
George Latimer & Son.
uovember 9. §
JuJl Pul'.yled, and now Selling,
By BENJAMIN DA VIES,
At his Book-Storh, No 68, Hitrh-Street,
The AMERICAN REPOSITORY
AND
ANNUAL REGISTERfortbeUNITED STATES
FOR THE YEAR 1 798 *•
Containing complete and correA lifts of the Execu
tive, I emulative and Judiciary
DEPARTMENTS OF GOVERNMENT,
And a variety cf'ufeful tables, ntceflary to be
known in every State of the Union.
Embellifoed iv'til tivo hanJfomc Engravings,
One of which is depi&ive of a melancholy scene
that occurred during the American war.
oa. 18.
just publiftied,
And to be fold at the Bcokftores of H. £3"' P.
Rice, No. 50, Market-flreet 1 J. Orrnrod,
No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet, and W. Young,
corner of Chefnut and Secorul-ftreets,
An accurate Syflem of Surveying;
IN WHICH IS CONTAIN I'D,
I. Decimal fraflions, in a plain, concise,
and ealy manner.
1. Theextraftion of the fquareroot.
3. Plain trigonometry, re&angular and ob
lique.
4. An exa& method to c.-.ft 4ip the contents
of lands.
j. Field surveying.
The whole being performed without the life
of scale and compafies, on a table of logarithms.
In which is given fonie account of the variation
of the needle, and the causes f>t its attraflion.
By SAMUivt MOORE,
Au;Uit T.'
FOR SALE, bt
Joseph Anthony Co.
No. 5. Chefimt Street,
A cargo of choice Eourdeaux Brandy, ift and ad
pr.''of, just landed
150 bales ol Bourbon fotton of afuperior quality
9 do. Surat, do do
A quantity of heavy black pepper in bales
Bourbon Indigo of th£ firft quality
High proof jamaiea spirits
Old I ..oik!on particular Madeira wine ?fn pigfs 8t
do. market do ? qr. casks.
Nevr England rum in bogfheads
Genuine Holland Gin in pipes
Claret in caf.s
Spcimaceri candle* andftrain'd oil
Prime I»oilon beef
Choice Halifax Salmon in barrels and half barrels .
Do. Herring; in do do
Best Boftoti Mackarel in barrels o£ the fall fans.
New-England tow l : n«n
A few tons of Ruflia ccrdage
Ruflia f-at her bods
Clover and Timothy in iaflcs
Long; whaJe-hwe
No. 1, 2, and 3, Boflon fail duck
A few cherts firfl cu ility Htea
Carolina rice in whele and half tierces and
Ail invoice of Dutch hollow giafe ware.
N vemher 8. , daw.
For Sale, by the Package,
For cash, or good notes at sixty or ninety days,
viz-
Book and Jaconet Mnflius plain")
ftrioes, and Checks I . _
do." • do. Tamboured } A<r ": ced m
do. Ladies handkerchief!, & | * 3a " l o es *
gentlemen's neck do- J
Jaconet chintz muslin for home and the Weft
India market, Pullicotc and linen handkerchiefs,
fordo, do printed do.do. common purple and
chintz ihawls.
The above goods entitled to drawback op jx
portation. Also a few scotch cambricktand an
afiortroent of muslin by the piece.
The whole of the above being a consignment
from the manufacturers in Britain.
To be seen at William BiAckburn's
Office, No. 64,.South Second Street.
Nov. 6. sawtf.
FOR SALE,
bt tub suescHiwEits, No. si, Penn-ftreet,^
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander, from Bengal,
Cmjijlmg of
Baftas, of various qualities & prices
ColTaes Punjum Cloths
Sanalu «uzz?y do.
Hnmhums C'harconna Dsrea
Blue Cloth Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes Mulmuls
Mamoodys Checks
Maharagonges Hhkfa.
Ginghams Mulmul Jo.
Guzzenas BanJannoss
Gurrahs Siflcrfojr
Piniafcoes , Choppa Romals
Saljatchys Sooty do.
Gillie Romals Persians of various colours
Mock Pulicats
200 tioss SUGAR
90,000 lb. PEPPBR.
Willings & Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are now open and exposed to fa4e st
that commodious (lore the north w«ft corner of
Market and Fourth tlr«et. Nov. to.
LANDING,
Prom on board theftiip Cleopatra, Samuel NewelJ,
commander, frem Loudon, ♦
60 tons of the best clean Ruflia
HEMP
60 caflcs of bottled BROWN STOUT.
For Sale by the fubferibers, No. 11, Penn-ftreet.
Willings Francis.
OA. 31- d
J Lift arrived.
From Port-au-Prince, and for . ile by the fubferf.
bers, No. »i, Penu-llreat,
6/1 h»gfliead«,")
81 " trce ' i Prime Coffee
523 barrels (
646 bags J
Willings & Francis.
o.3._sS> i__
FOR SALE,
BY THE SUBSCRIBERS,
Madeira Wine, firft quality, in
pipes
Madeira wine, New-York quality, in plpas
Lisbon WINE, in pipes
Vu'l r lines'} lateß importation,^box*
SpanifhWool, in Bales, suitable for Hatters.
Wiilifigs if Francis,
Penn-ftrcet, No. si.
Nov. I. w&stf
Mordecai Lewis,
HAS FOR SALE,
At his Store, No. a 5, Great Dock-flreet,
250 bales of Bengal Good#
Containing Baftas
Cofias
Gurrahs
Moragugungees
Tooksry
Check and Stripes
Bandano Handkerchief*
Mamoody
Calicoes
I! boxes Irish Linens
I do. Diapers
7 do. Umbrellas
20 canisters Java Sugar
( 78 bags black Pepper
do. East India Gingcf
100 caiks roll Brimstone
70 pipes Madeira Wine
57 casks Gin
A quantity of flieathing Copper and Nark,
> AAolu.iv 30.
Lately Published,
In or.e vol. 8 vo. (price one dollar in boards) fold
by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of Second and
, Chefsut'ftreetr,
A Colle&ion of Papers on the fubjaft of
Billious Fevers, prevalent in the United
r States for a few years past.
Compiled by NO/IH WEBSTER, jux.
I Containing letters from Doctors Seaman, Smith,
Buel, l'aylor, Ramsay, Monfon, Reynolds, Mitch
ell,on contagion, &c. &«.
S ;pt. I J.
\~Vor.L'ME XIIIhe Jtrinti rt in the United Stales are r, qtteJSru
to inft'rl the fallowing Objeriiat'o-ts 'in then
papers, by boh'ich tbi be Jervset,
as ivffl as their obcdbntfervent.
B. Lincoln, supi-riut&idartof
Lijbi-Boti/it, State of Majfucbufetts.
I J Y r.rrter of" the Uniied States, a Light Wt
Jhas h«n. freified at the Clay Ponds, on Cape j
Cod; the lamps in which are to be lighted on
the t jlhinll: The light hsufr jjerecledon,
l.,nd elevated about 150 feet, whi. h with the e-
Tefjuion'ofthe«.astern makes the wholeheighth
405 feet above high water mjrk- Irio Scrthat
tbi* Light may be dutinguifhed from the Be/ton
at" J other on otircoafl, an Eclipfer ia e
redled, which wilf revolve around the Lamps
once in So seconds so that the light will tie near
ly excluded front the ey » of (he approaching .
mariner about thirty frconds, in one revoluti
on of the eclipfer. To tender the bensvolent
d; Sgna of Consrefj as extert lively ufcful as pof
fiblc, the Marine Society in Boflon, by a Urge
Cornmittee from their body, whofev'rew* have
be n lecondfd by others, have taken fueh dil
taties and hearings as thev thought necessary ;
which obfervationi giving light and fjfety are
added tor the benefit of ail intereftetj—and are
asfo'tov.-:
Vefleh oatwjrd bund, from Boston Liu'ht
houfe, a-ut would with ;o fall in with Cape-Cod
tile course it E; S. K- dittanee 15 leagues, thence
3 leagues to the Ligh? house. Whe nup with
the L'gh.t-houfe ants It bears S W z leagues dis
tance, yot! then fleer S S E which jwill carry
yov out of the south channel.
Vefitls inward bound, and fail in with the
back of Cape-Cod, bring the Light to bear SW
2 leagues dilfanc», then you may fleer WNVV
f r Ijollon Light-Bouse.
If you you would wish to go into Cape Cod
htrbor, you may keep the ihore aboard about
a mile difiant, where you will have 10 fithoms
water. There is a bar lies olf the back of the
Caoe, about half a mile from the shore.
When tip with Race-point, which is very
bold, and about three leagues to theweftward of
the Lif:ht-ho!tfe, and may be known by a num
ber of fiih houfei on it, from 1 miles to
the fnuiVward of Race-point, is what is called
Herring Cove, where you may have good an
choring half a mile from the shore, the wind
from E to \ N E in 4 or even 3 fathom water.
If bound into Cape Cod harbor, your course
from Race-point to Wood end, u S S E 6 miles
diftanre, bring the light to bear E by N and
rjn for it about two miles, you wili then be
clear of Wood end —then you must steer N E
until the light bears E by S—then run N W
fir the harbor, until you have from 4 to j 1-1
fathoms water, where you have good anchor
ing, the Light then will bear Eby S 1-4 S 5 or
6 cniles distance.
!a running from the Race point to Wood
End—after you pass the Black Land or Hum
mucks, you will com* up with a low facdy
beach, which fornfis the harbor ; extending be
t'.v"!°n 2 and z miles to Wood-end, whicJi is
d.fficult to be diflinguifhed in the night—lt is
very boM—you will have 15 fathom, water
within half a mile of the shore.
, in healing into Cape-Cod harbor, you must
keep the ea'.ttfrn shore aboard, until ysu get in
to fathom water. Stand no farther to the
westward than to bring the light t» bear E by S
as there is a long spit #f sand rtins off from the
■western fhore'j which being very bold, you will
have 11 ftithsm water within a Hones threw of
shore
la cafe it blows fo'hard that you cannot beat
in the harbor, you will havr good anchoring
with i it, from 10 to 15 fathom water.
Vt.Tels in Boston bay anji would wi(K to put
for Cape Cod harbor, mufi endeavor to
fall in with the Race. If in the night, and you
eannot fee the land, you rtiuft bring the Light
to bear Eby N and run/for it until you have
foundings in 14 or 15 fathom water, then steer
north '-.il until the light bears E by S th«n .#n
in NXV for the htrbor.
and change, it it high water off Race
Point at ic o'clock and 4,4 minute* Vtffels in
Jeaving Cape Cod bound to Boston, should cal-
the tide, at the flosd sets strong to the
south weft
JOHN FOSTER WILLIAMS, ~\Committe
N ATHANIEL GOODWIN, ( from the
JOHN CRUET, C Marine
JOHN HrLLS. ) Society.
THOMAS BARNARD, A branch Pilot
for the fort of Baflon
SOLOMON COOK, ' \ Refde'nce ot Pro-
ELIJAH NICKERSON, $ -vmceton Cape Cod
At a Meeting'of the Marine Society, held at
Concert Hall, on Tuesday jth'iNov. 1797 —the
above Report of i. Committee was read and
approved and ordered to be published.
By order ofibe Society,
THOMAS DF.NNIE, President.
WILLIAM FURNESS, Sec'y,
DANG I N G.
MR. & Mrs. BYRNE,
Of the New Theatre,
RESPECTFULLY inform the Ladies and Gen
tlemen ol Philadelphia, that Mr. Byrne's
Academy will comm nce on the ift, and Mrs.
Btrke's on the 2d of December nc*t.
novefhber ao«
L~O~ S T,
Joseph Mil nor s Draft, payable
to the fubferiber or order, for Four Hundred and
Twenty Bolhrt, 25 Cents, dated November 15th,
1797, at Sixty Days aftor Date, on Robeson and
Paul, with their acceptance. If found, a reafos
aWe will be paid on delivery.
George Pennocl.
novemb'er 20. 4t
Now Landing,
And F©r Sale by the Subscribers,
30 hhda, BRANDY
tierces, "> RICE
14 Jiaii (To. J
7 hhds. Carolina TOBACCO
Philips, Cratnotul, & Co.
nwtmccr 18. 3t
The Commissioners
For alleviating the distress of the Citizens of
Philadelphia, have removed their office to the
Old Court House, High Street.
EDWARID-GARRIOUES, Secretary.
iqthmo.lS. IW.
India Goods,
CONSISTING or
Haurial rlunihumt
• Tlckices
Patna Chintz >
T affaties
Punjum Cloths ,
Choppa Ronral, Fulicat, Baihar and Eah
danna Handkerchiefs
lOR S.UC BY
JoJljuci Gilpin,
No. 149, South Froi t flrect,
TVH.IR'E may be had
A few trunks of French Goods,
Cor.iifling of plain and striped Silk Hose, Um
brellas and Ribbons. Also, a few boxes Sperma
ceti Candles, and a few barrels fnioakcd Hcrringt.
nevtmier 10. *cod6t
Salts of Ij Uiiibi : t'. t
WILL P,E SOLD,
Ort IV£/JI\£SI)AI ytle 2 2 / //. /?. jin : :jci\ at yo'c.'oi*
ift the tHort, ■tiVy
At C. Kmlen's Lumber Yard,
In the Northern Libe; tic« near the Hny Sca'.e^
All the Personal Property there
remaining belongingtpthe elUtc of Caleb
deceased, cohfifung of the following viluaS»lc
articles, viz.
Several hundred of' Wtie Pine, Hemlock
and Oak Logs, to be fold in lots of about three
thoufana fest each (
l I-l, 2, I 1-2, and 3 inch OA Plaiiki alfart
j, ed, moA of which are of thelxft fluff -for
the use and building of lhips
l, and 2 i-i iwch White Pin,- FU'-nlss for
g quarter Decks
c I 1-2 to 4 inch Ash Planks
> Hemlock Scantling alforted
g Six pieces Hqmleck 30 feet in lecg h, and 1
c pieces 17 <eet
White Pine Seantling, Maple Scantling
= Maple Boards, Quarter Rails
Spinning Vyeel Stuff, Whale Pieces 40 feet
.* long
A v-.laable assortment of White Oak Flitch
H Stuff
_And lcveral fe£arste parcels of old Plank, &c.
ALSO,
Two large copper Stills, with
Worms, Heads, &c.
A good sorrel Horse—an old Chaise and Sulkey
A large Wheel and Reel
A nuraber of ftiJl house farrs, two k>£ Trucks, a
etittin* Box and Knife, a large Feed £ox, a
fin-ll Anchor, a Scale with Beam, and a number
of 561b. Weights, a good Mill Saw, a wr'fting
Deic with sundry articles in Compting-houfe,
two pair of good Piltols, a parcel of old Iron,
Cables, Ropes, &c. LHewifi,
The wheel works of a Horse
Saw Mill, comvletc and in good order.
Such persons as may be desirous of purchjifing
any part thereof, are at liberty to view them on
the premises, where a man will cenftantly attend
every d y previous to the-falel Carpenters, Lum
ber Merchants, Builders,' Sic. may have a favora
ble opportunity of purchaiing Lumber, &c. !
more advantage at thipfale than ellewhere, whkh
no doubt wifl command their attention
Purchafersto a larger aitiount than one hundred
dollars may be accommodated withfixty days cre
dit on approved indorsed notes.
Sold liy Order ©if
'JAMES VAUX, ,anJ
CHARLES PLEASANTS,
Aitcrvtys infafl to Mart Emlin, fiU Executrix
Footman & Co. Autfrs.
novmber 11. d^t
FOR SALE,
By the Su»scri»rr, at his Store, No. 75, Sonth
Water-street,
A general aflortment of China
Ware
Black and coloured Sattins
Do. do. Lnteflriiigt
Do. da. Handkerchiefs
Do. do. sewing Silks
Imperial and Hyson Teas
Loag and short Naakecns
Quick Silver, in tubs
Holland Gin, in pipes
.Assorted Glass Ware, in cases
White and brown Havanna Sugars, in boici
MelalTcs, in hogfhcsdj
St. Croii Rum and Jugar, in do.
London particular Madeira Wine
Sherry and Malaga Wines, in quarft calks ,
Red, yellow and pale Barks, in cbcfls
Logwood, &c. kc.
. nn 7—tu&f*w JOSEPH SIMS.
For iale by the Subl'crtber,
No. 89, South ftreet,
A few casks of high proof Brandy
60 Tierces freih Rice
40 Boxes of C'Jiocolate
A large quantity of Iflorted window glass, and
aoo pieces fail cloch, No. I to 8
Ravens Duck, Mace and Gum Senegal.
Samuel Breck, Jun.
V, N. B. An ercellent Cofnpting House to let on
Roils'swhar . 6teod Nov. a.
Landing,
From on board the Clip Edward, at Walnuk
ftreet Wharf,
London particular Madeira Wine,
of a foptriorquality, For Sale by the fuhferiber.
Robert Andrews.
novemher 3. eorf
REMOVAL.
Maurice Moynihan,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he
has removed his Store of China, GJifs, Queens
Ware, and Dry Goods, from No. v ill North Su
cond, to No. ji North Seventh Street, north jeaft
corner of Cherry Alley, where he solicits the fa
vor of his former customers.
N. 3. Crates put up with care at the (horteft
notice.
novemher a. dtf
This Day Publiflied,
Aadto be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, torccr *f
1 Second and Ofcefnut streets, (
Prlct 3of a Dollar,
Obfervat 'tons on iertain Documents
•Containod in No. V ond VI ps .
" The History of the United States for
the year 1796,
In which the charge ©f speculation agaitift
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secretary of the Treasury, is FULLT
REFUTED.
WRIT TEN Ji Y HIMSELF.
Thfls publication *prefents a concise statement
of the base means pradifed by the Jacobins of tb«
United States to asperse the characters of thofc
persons who arc confidwred as hostile to their difor-
fchemes. It also contains the cor*
refpondence between Mr. Hamilton and MelTrs.
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venable, on the fub
je& ©f the documents aforefaid, and a series of let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha
milton, proving beyond the ponihility of a doubt,
th«t the connection between him and Reynolds,
was the result of a daring eonfpira«y on the part
of the latter and his associates to extort money.
A discount of one third from the retail price
will be made in favor of wholesale purchafcrs, for
cash. Orders to be addressed to Mr Youns.
AugvA %s •
To be Soldi
A Valuable Plantation,
OF upwards of One Hundred Acres of Land,
well watered, in a healthy situation, about
fovea miles from this City ; the buildings may be
made to accommodate a large family, at a mode
rate expense, and possession had in a few wetks.
Part «>i the purchafc-money being paid, a reafon
ablc credit will be allowed for the remainder.
Tnquireof the Printer,
rovembrr 3 mwftf
The Medical Ledures
In the Univerlify of Pennsylvania, are post
poned until the iafl Monday in November
next.
O-.oter 14. aawnw.
, J
*oRE; GN I \ r TE I;LI GEN CE.
VENICE, Angiift'4.
The citizens of the Rational guard hers
are vevyjealousanddiffatisfied with the troops
of 1 men from the Cifilpine Republic,
«'1)0
wye feat here to "maintain traiiqtiility.
They have declared to the municipality, that
if these troops are not removed they will
disband. Orders on the subject are expedt
ed from General Buonaparte. A p'art of
the French garrison here is (lowly withdraw
ing- The contributions for the maintenance
, of the French troops, and the adminiftrati
-1 on of public affair», amount daily to 14,000
ducats. The zealous democrat Dandolo, has
requeftedhis difmiflion frpjn the municipali
ty, because fotrie <?1 bis proportions have
not been immediately aeereed. In the neigh
bourhood of Vicenza, feverfil of the com
trluneß htfve rejected the new
and required the old Venetian constitution
to be restored, under which they fay, they
enjoyed more "peace and happiness ; 3000
French have, in consequence, marched in
to that vicinity from Vicenza, and 40CO
from Baffano. The Inhabitants at fir ft took
; arms, andfome feyere lkirmi'fhc* took place,
j in which many were killed 911 both fides ;
j but at length, they were obliged tofubmit
to superior force,
j Buonaparte has erefted a new adoiiniftra
, tion sot the vicinity of Mantua.
| she French rajfe 75,000 livres'per month
I in this part of the co'untry.
The municipality of Ancona has taken
! pofftflion of all the convent? iti that city,
I and their revenues.
The report is revived," that Buonaparte
will mike himfelf the head of the Cisalpine
republic. He was en the sth inft. prepa
ring to set out from MilaTi for Udine.
[Thus regularly follows misery, whither
soever blading fates, inwi'ath at'human vi
ces, bearthe cruel fcourgt of i-rfH^liberty.]
PARIS, September 9.
Proclamation of thi Executive DinSory to the
French people.
Citizens—-the Frrtich people have in the
firft inftanee, committed the deposit of
their constitution to the fidelity of the Le
gislatiVe body, and of the executive power.
The fafety and integrity of this sacred de
posit hare been threatened by a conspiracy
of royalists, slowly and maturely organised,
carried on with craft and dexterity, and
followed up and pursued with perfeverauce.
The Directory have unveiled the plot ; the
conspirators have been seized, and the le
gifiative body have instantly adopted the
measures which the urgent nature of cir
cumstances h s required. No blood has
been (lied, wisdom presided over the opera
tion of the armid force, and coyrage and
discipline directed its exertions. The na
tional juflice has been avowed and conse
crated by the peaceable deportmeßt of the
people ; it was made evident to the public,
, thrt there was no design of deranging the
present polture of things, but on the con
trary, of putting every thing in its proper
place. The legislative body, the executive
dirfftwy»—ttjtfaL.taiAfully MfJlctJ their du
ty. But the. French people have also de
posited their Mtgua Chatta in the hands of
the administrators and judges : They have
confided it to the vigilance, the enlighten
ed vigilance of fathers of families, of moth
ers and of wives, and to the virttrous affec
tions of youthful citizens ; in a word, to
the charadteriftic intrepidity which diftin
guifhesFrenchmen. Administrators, jndges,
fathers of families, wives, mothers, and
youthful citizens., Frenchmen of every age,
of every profeffiot»> have you |Omp!ied with
your oaths :
Have you protected the deposit entrust
ed to your hands ? Look around you,
Frenchmen ! be watchful and observe ( it is
not too late) the snares into which the
friends of Icings and the enemiec of France
were eager to involve pou. In order to
curb' you anew undfr the yoke you have
broken, in order gradually, as though it
were by your own impulse, to fubjedt you
to it again, they have introduced into all
the public offices, corrupted men, but men
as crafty as they ar» perverse ; dextrous in
converting into m ingine hostile to the lib
erty of the people, the very power they
had been armed with, in order to defend
and confirm it. They possessed in your tri
bunals, prevaricating judges, who abused
the very independence which the constitu
tion had bestowed on them, and who exer
cised their rights, only to screen and protedt
the enemies of their country. Above all
it wait tHeir prime object and most anxious
care to recall France to the adoption of
monarchical forms, ahd to make the consti
tution, the fetes, the manners, and the
usages of the people, ponder and truckle to
the views of despotism. They were, well
aware, that man was a creature of habit,
and that by changing his habits, you chan
ged his very e(Fence. Monarchical forms
coincided no doubt, and marveloufly coin
cided with ahe views and wishes of the con
spirators, it was expedient and essential for
them, to cast anew in a royal mould,, the
mass of the nation ; but the nation repiilfed
the attempt with indignation and with hor
ror. The republic has triumphed, aud the
triumph of republican fdrma ought to be
blazoned and confolideted : such (hould be
the infigilia as well as the fruit of their vic
tory. A rtjiutMfcaif spirit, a republican
morality, and institutions,
ought to be cheriflied and prevail ; but in
order to comprehend and concentre them,
they mirft be better understood, and for
this we must begin by forming a more per
fect idea of them. The republican spirit
colledts and embodies all our interests in the
sacred focus of the public good, and takes
into its composition every thing that is just,
equitable, good, and amiable among man
kind. Among a people informed and in
spired by the divir.e spirit, justice presides
over their .social relations ; no one attempts
to injure the intereftsof another ; the equal
ity that prevails calls for and
Centres reciprocal affiftancfc ; fluiujd difftr
tnces arise, the right of deciding on them :
is not a lucrative trade,, that begets a dtfire.
to protraft a deeifion. Republican justice
is the sister of peace. Th'e mflft lovely, the
purest fentiinetit of nature— refpedt for
hoary age ; conjugal endearment; paternal
fetidernefs, and filial pity. Sentiments
honoured in public are known to exert
their foft influence within the bosom of
private families, and derive from the ties of
blood, bonds of fraternity, of mutual af
fedtion, and happiness—The arts offer up
in homage to the public weal the treasure
of their agremens, and the pomp of their
matter-pieces—eloquence, poetry, music,
all unite and conspire to kindle in every
heart the love of the country, and to rean
imate ,the engines pi valour. Courage and
genius are the offspring of liberty : The
pencil, the chisel, and the artful hand, of
the architetl, erect monuments in her hon
our. The theatre refeunds with the oracles
of morality, the sacred maxims of philoso
phers, and the incentive of pub
lic And private virtue, But the triumph
the fine arts is more eminently confpicmaus
in the national fetes, in these fraternal and
• popular solemnities, in these awful and af
fedting assemblies, where one sentiment as
similates and moves the minds and hearts of
an immense people : dread and imposing
ceremonies, which cannot "be known in the
palaces of kings, which chill with horror
the partizans of despotism, but which warm
with an invincible charm the breaft.of repub
licans. In a republic, every writer, every
man of genius and letters is proud of the
name of liberty, profeffes its maxims, op
poses to error, to fanaticifm,., and to falf
heoa, the lights of inftru&ion and of know
ledge ; lends to the empire of the laws th?
support of his talents, and invigorates their
force by the supplement of his mental ex
ertions. He explores the true principles
of morality and of liberty ; he diffufes the
love of them, and propagates their influence;
he teaches his fellow citizens a more cor
dial love for each other, and above all
the predominant love of their country. It
is in a republican foil that public inllruftion
must flourifh ; this is the vivifying source
which,-like a pure milk, circulates, and is
distributed through all the ramifications of
society : Parents are eager to fend their
children to drink of and to be nourjfhed with
it. Private iilftru&ion constantly accords
with the public inftru£tion ; the OBe pre
pares and leads or to the other. ' Over
both, the eye of the magistracy is vigilant,
and the magistrates, on their fide, whether
by the public exposition of the acts of gov
ernment, or by their zeal in diffufing the
light of knowledge, or by their aftivity in
promoting the celebration of republican
games, and of national fetes, and ahove all
by holding out the living example of their
own conduft and morals—the(e ir.agiftrates
are also the in(tru£tors and framers of the
public mind. It is here, in a word, where
there exists the most powerful spring, and
the grand moving principle of laudable ac
tions, and of courageous traits, that sacred
emulation which prompts the citizens to, vie
with each other in private virtue and publi«
utility. The universal right to the chief of
fices of the state is the. firft clatife in the
compadt of equality. There is no diftinft
ion. There is no diftinjlion of birth or
privilege. Merit alone Is honored : Impe
rious motive to elevate men to sublime sen
timent and exalted enterprize ! People of
France, fitch ought you to be i Such you
would have already been, if your minds had
been thoroughly impressed with the princi
ples of your constitution—is you had not
liflened to those who have vilified the repub
lican principle in order to re-eftablifli the
ycjie of ptiefts and kings. Ab ! cease to
give credit to them ! Hasten to quit the
path which they had marked out, and
which can only lead you to disgrace and ru
in. You ought to be the model and the
arbitev of nations. They wished on the
contraty to reader you the contempt of
mankind. See how they have deceived
you ! See whether the republic is the feat
vf terrorism ! The republic has triumph
ed, and yet the blood of traitors has been
spared. No ;it ie not blood which cements
republics. For the despotism of a "ingle
man blood must be (hed, but to found equali
ty laws alone are required. It belongs to
the constitution to be the guide of morals
and the compass oflife. Tesch it then to
your children. Get by heart and pra&ice
yourselves the deelaration of rights and of
duties. Resume with eagemefs the repub
lican cjftoms which will distinguish you a
mong other nations, and will render yoa the
model of free dates. Renounce fcrvile abus
es. Employ your own calendar, that ac
curate and convenient division of time,
which by an admirable fnature in republican
destinies reminds you that the fun begins the
year on the day when the republic began its
career. As your days of reft, constantly
prefer those which the law points out.—>
Let those days not only bring back to you
sweet repose, the reward and theconfequejice
of labour, but let it produce innocent joy,
let it produce family associations, the peru
sal of the laws, games, and entertainments.
Let the rendezvous of commerce, the fairs,
.the markets, henceforth correspond with
the republican a:ra. All civil affairs ought
to be regulated only by civil Jaws. Eyery
ufurpntion on the province of law ought to
cease in a republic. Tnke the name of citi
zen with honett pride. This glorious title
has sacred rights. Our fathers, in a despot
ic government, long envied the appellation.
They regretted, they deplored that they
were not citizens. Let that name be ever
dear, to you. Never employ any other, un
less to express contempt. Let the mouth
of a free man never be sullied by those feu
dal qualities, tliofe (hameful honours by
which you were formerly degraded, and the
most unassuming of which ought to rouse
your indignation, since it reminds you of (la
very. Henceforth let the spirit of the na
tion form itfdf among, and rife to th£ pin
nule of ycur sublime destinies. Be the firft
of free nations, and let the natr? r' French
citizen be she mod honourable ol H p appel
lations. Let taste and heatr.efs prevail in
your dress. Let an amiable simplicity eve,r
bfe cherifiied ; let the youth stun pomp and
alTefttaion; let them rendurit unneceflary to
tell them to lay aside tbofe rallying marks,
those ctifto'ms of revolt, which are the rtm
form of a hostile army ; let beauty,
and modest, Adorned with its modesty, pre
fer.i:i its ornaments those which have been
woven by French hands. Beware of intem
perance, for it is one of the vices of flavet.
Frugality is one of the virtues by which free
nations arc diftiuguifhed. Be humane and
sympathizing. It is among a free people
that humanity is to be found ; it is oaly by
despots that it is trodden under .foot v ; the
altar of pily is in the hiart of every freeman.
Call to mind the principles which your im
mortal Montcfquieu afciibes to three gov
ernments. To defpotifnj he afiigns the
foundation of terror.' Honor is the phan
t«m which walks in the train of Kings
but the basis aud the eflence of republics
is virtue. People of France ! In this
word recognize what your constitution,
your government, your country now require
from you. Do not allow others to fay, and
do not fay yourselves, that you are not re
publicans, because virtue'is the basis of re
publics. Do not calumniate yourselves,
not caufc yourselves to be calumniated.
People of France ! Be virtuous, love jyour
constitution, your government, your •coun
try, and you will be republicans, and noth
ing will equal your glory and your happi
ness. You ought to be attached to your
government, as both the supreme 'authori
ties which you have inilituted are attach
ed to it. Let this great example impress
- yeuc minds. The royalist eonfpirators had
disunited these powers ; and in breaking
through this link, the key-stone of the fp
cial arch, they had almoit succeeded in the
Overthrowing the republic. Thanks to the
destiny by which yqu are proteded: the
eonfpirators are no more, neither in the
directory, nor in ihe two councils. The
councils and the dire&ory at last go hand in
hand, and the republic is saved.
(Signed)
REVEILLIERE LEPAUX, Pre/idem.
Legarde, Sseretary.
LONDON, Sept. i£.
The following article we extra& from the
Revelateur, formerly called the Batave :
" The administrators of the Department
of Soane and Loire, difinifled by the Gov
ernment, had the impudence to impiifon the
courier who brought them the dispatches
announcing their difmrffal ; and it is said
that he recovered his liberty only by the
energy of the republicans of Macon, who
flew to arms, and did, not quit thera till
their demands were complied with. The
administrators of the AUier, supported bj
all the cut-throsts they could colleift, also
commenced an infurreftion agaioft the go
vernment."
" On the appointment of Merlin ofDoi*
ai and Francois de Neufchateau to the di
rectory, we hear that Gohier and Garat,
both art named as candidates
to replace thefirft as Minifter'of justice, and
Gingucne to |be miniftrr of the interior.
The dircfitory are now employed in this ap
pointment. It is believed Dinou will be
appointed to some.important place—That
of direftor of public inftrtfdtion would per
fectly suit him.
" Many emigrantsof diftinftion been
arrested ; it is incredible the number of pafP
ports that the central office hav« issued."
From Haiiiburgh Papers received by the
Aurora.
HAGUE, September It.
The hotel of the French minister here has beea
ill nominated on account of the new revolutioir
which has taken place in France, and a general il
lumination isfpoien o! ; for if this revolution had
nut happened, the royal party would have accom
plifced their designs, anil the old order of tilings
would also luve been reliored here.
Our troop? have just bean Jif«mbark;d from the
flijet in the l'excl.
September 16.
Twcnty-onc«on>miflio«crs have bc-.n appoizted
to prtpa.e the new constitution, fix of whtt»i are
fr.-.ui the province of Holland, anti the greater
proportion are devoted to tht revolutionary party,.
I h* choice «f Preudent has fallen upon the repre
fe.ntstive from Amftel.
Yeflerday the Cisalpine republic was mentioned
for the firft time in our convention. Thedir'ett
ry expressed, tfeoir wiflies to be united by the bonis
us friend&ip aud brotherhood to the Cataviin re
public.
The troops difembr.rl.-cd from the fl;et in the
Tertl, are net returucd into yanifon : they are
cantortedki quarters l*ur Kutniionj ar« goncto
Friefland,' »nd as many to OverryHH. Tho reft
gone into North H. llirid. Fhetrmfport flups
remain till further orders, in the Texel.
The nun tier Meyer has bean recalled from
France, on account of his being thought to favor
the nyalilt party.
Order> have been given for all French emigrants
to leave the republic
General Hoche ha» intimated that there is a bo
dy of Freach emigrants and other (Hlaifc&ed pifr
fons en our borders, of whom it is nece!Tarv tu
take force notice.
CO I.N, September 10.
A r msrkable cKange has taken place here. The
friends oi revolution have had the u ,jper ha:-.d, ap<l
hav; followed th.-example of the Cifalpiners. The
whole t, thc'tr'e.ifury anil vrehieve*. all
in fhdr I arttk. 'Th*c..Cf«tieace his been, thefo
lertn r.*nur.ciat»(«i ai II «'nceAio>n wirhthe (fov.
criimer.tof the enmire. Intermediate cofnmi3i.on
eriand new munip lhi~* nre eliablifhed here, ?.f
Aa«han» Trirr and Unblefifz, under the; proteiflion
of the Frcnc': repuWic, a't;3 under the name of t.'ie '
Ci'rhenanifb Kepublic (R-es'fblic on this 'fide tlii
Rhine} formally declared indejiendeitt, .uid to it
are annexed fevetal finall bJjoii.ing di.lriAs.oi' ter
ritory on the Opper HJiiiie. InfurmatiOß of thit
change haslieen sent to I'acfs, and jjencral Hoche
l.anhcen invited to provide them with a Provifien
alDir&itory. tifl.the people can be alter,bled to
form a regular constitution.
'lhe consequence of this revolution^cannot^at
pre.fcnt be ellimated ; it will doufctleft give Frar.c3
new ami important rcfources.—One conf.'qtienc.'
mnongtl others, will be the cor.f.fe-irlon of tfi.-
c'oyltej's, and the estates of 'the priircs't-.n ! of !..•
clerical order, which malic tbre; iau:t"h> <f the
wlwls country.September 17. 1
Tbe -plan of the French to rept;;>licai>ize tic
country on thCßhme every c'oy dcvelopcs
it'elf. Yes noon the indep' nd~nce of this
place was pitnliclyWeclared, and the tree ol liber
ty planted. Tl'e ceremony \va« performed in the
prefenec cf the civil and military authorities. In
itvtral other places yeitertfay and the day beiore,
the tree ot liberty wai alio planted.
WETZLAR, September 1-.
General Hoche lies here dar.geronfly ill. Two
t!od\ors are expetfled from Paris to attend him.
Jieveial of the greets are covered with litter.—
All is irept ftitl, not even theltages or n achanes
are permitted to difturl) him. General Lefevre
tomminis the arwy of the Sambre and Meuff,
in the interim.
VIENNA,. 6"ep. 16.
It was today reported here, that Peace had
been Concluded betwixt the Emperor and the
French Republic ; but this report is not t ffici
ally announced. It is hoped, however, that a
fortnight will determine the matted Though
much depends event of the negocijti
ons at Lisle, as our Cabinet is closely bound
with that of England : or there i« little doubt
that France would wi(h 'o conclude peace with
us, and leave England to herfelf.
HAMBURGH, Sept. »6.
The ihips which the Spaniards expedted
from I'outh America and the Philippine Islands
with upwards ot i 8 inillions ofpialtresonboard,
are arrived at Tenei'ifTe.
The tnglifh i'qtiaHron, under command of
Adinij.x! Neltort, are put into Gibraltar to refit.
Aug. to.
The ijreateft part ef the city of Scutari h?»
been daftroyed by fire. It is pot kno. n how it
broke out, bat 3000 houfrs have been reduced
to 1 Tuts.
COPENHAGEN, Sipt. 16.
On Monday !aft a fire broke out in the town
of Nykurg, which, owing to the wind he
ing very flrong at the time,, consumed 141
hcufes, about one third part of the whole place.
The loft is eflimated at 100,000 rix dollars.
September 19.
The post of yeflerdjy brought news that the
pefliUnce was i'o violent in the island of CurT.-
ca, that orders are iffifed " That no ship from
the Mediterranean sea ihatl l>e adintMed into the
river Elbe,, without being firlt examined at
Cuxhaven by the proper officer at Rijzbuttle,
and permilEon obtained."
STOCKHOLM, Sept. 11.
On Snndty last the young king of Sweden
was publicly betrothed to the Princess Frederi
ea Van Baaden, .which was accompanied with
the (rejoicings ul'ual on such occasions.
- ' UDINE, Sept. 6.
• On the tft inlf. the firft conference on the
fuhjeft of Peace was held at Fafleriano, be- !
twixt the different belligerent Powers. It con
tinued nearly fix hours. On the 3d, General
Buonaparte arrived here to aflift at the negocia
tion, and fitice then it has daily continued be
twixt him, <Jeneral Clark and the Austrian Mi
nifler. The Cangrefs is held at the house of the
Marquis of Galls. The French military fur
rotind the places and the fortifications c-ontinue
to be replenished. '
MILAN, Sept. 9.
r The Government of Genoa, on the 4th inft.
experieteed a serious (hock. The excJnfion of
thtf Priests and Nobility from the offices of
State, which the new Constitution ordains, and
the discharge of the old officers, occaConed a
formidable tumult. The aristocratic paHy,
which consisted cfthe chief citizens, had at firft
the advantage, and became masters of the city.
Bat their triumphs did not continue long. The
democrats united themselves, and were assisted
■by the French troops. A combat took place, in
nrhich upwards of 1000 men loft their lives.
The French Ambaflatlor, Faypoult, and the
Coifiean General,Caflabianca,it is said, were at
\he head of the democratic party. Since then,
Genoa is surrounded by French troops.
FROM A PARIS PAPSR.
The following accour.f of the proceedings of the
French Legislature respecting the proscription ; •
of certain 'JournaliJls, Jhews that they ha ve
been treated in a Nummary mode.
Permanent fitting of the 6th and 7th,
Bailleul prefaced the report by some ob
servations on the conduft and principles of
certainjournalifts, who, it is evident were
in the interests of the fallen royattft confpi- ,
racy, either from congeniality of sentiment, j
or having been in their pay.
The projeft of decree which he proposed
was as follows : r
Art. I. The proprietors, undertakers, r
aireftors, authors, editors, and assistants of f
the journals of which the names follow g
(therr were 54 on the lift) shall be trarif- j
ported whither the direftory shall direst. '
11. Their property shall be sequestrated, f
and restored only when the authentic ac- p
count shall be received of their arrival at the 0
place of their destination. 1 ;
111. The direftory are authorized to as- a
ford them some provisional succour till they c
reach the place of their destination.
Several members, " The question."
Salicetti moved, that the direftory should d
have the right of making domisilary visits t
to seize the persons defiguated in the decree.
After some trifling opposition this was ear
ned. a
Talot concluded his observations in fav«r h
of the motion, as follows : ti
" I have said it, I repeat it, we were b
placed between the gallows and the guillo- ti
tine. Had our enemies triumphed, they p
would not have observed towards us all the
forms which they themselves require ; we I
all should have perished by the rope or at
the block- Lcfs cruel, we want no blood ;
but at least let us aft in such a manner as that (
they shall not escape the punishment they L
have deserved." •
Gaudin moved that the lift of journals
should be read over and the names consider
ed one by one. Adopted.
The Journal du Soir wa< struck off the pi
lifts, Bailleul, the reporter, seconding the tl
motion. % m
The word nffijlants was struck out of the n:
firft article of the decree as being too vague m
and general. cl
The Republican Francois tjas struck off ta
the lift. Then the Mercure. a't
The Journal des Speftacles was referred ol
back to the committee for further examina- a
tion. at
Quirot wijhcd the lift confined to the moll in
, ' prominent jonrnaliftj of the conater-r;*o!u-
tion'ary faftion, and not to includ: all those
lis who m;ght weakly have sided with or copied
•r- from them occalionaliy.
he Gaudin and Boulay supported this idea,
and wished the whole lift referred back,
' that a felcftio*. might be made*. Negatived.
| L'Hiftorien, printed by Dupont de Ne
[ mours was next moved to be struck off the
•o; i»ft %
n. contended, that though the jour
— nal had, at times contained some articles that
" proyed the editor a friend to the fallen par
'J ty, it had contained many articles, especial
' ly upon the clubs, the priests ,and the divi
sions among the different departments of the
government of an excellent tendincy. He
id paid some compliments to Dupont's cha
rafter, and pleaded his age. " Dupont,"
said he, " has contributed to dilfeminate in
formation by his excellent work of the ci
tizen's cphemerides ; he has therefore cou
rt tributed to bringing about the revolution."
)t • Taltien stated the influence of this paper
h as very great ; but reprefentsd the editor as
a man whose talents had been employed in
endeavouring to bring about the ancient
j ''eghne, and who protested, against the late
l 3 events.
I, Chenier supported the views of Boulay.
He agreed, that ll~liflorien often contain
if ed articles which gave pain to republicans ;
but often also very exeelleot observations.
He concluded by faying : " Without doubt
s you should have some confidcration for his
t age, and for the friend of Turgot ; —one
() who in the conflitutional aflembly coiftlant
ly supported the eaufe of liberty." He'ho
ped that this paper would at least b? sent
back to the committee. Agreed.
1 La Tiibune Politique was moved to be
' ft ruck out. Negatived.
We mention these details to (hew, that
the proscription lift was not made without
difcuflion or confederation.
Finally the lift of proscribed journals re
" mained as follows :
| The Guardian of the constitution ; the
; General fournal of France ; that of the coll
t an,ts ! th- Invariable ; the Impartial, print
ed at Bruxelles ; the Impartial Brurellfe
the Grondeur ; the Universal Gazztte ;
the Gazette Francoife ; the Europe Lite
! raire ; the Eclair ; the Echo ; the Dejeu
ner ; the defender of old Institutions ; the
Public Voice or the Journal of the brothers
and friends by VafTelin ; the Republican
Courier ; the Extraordinary Courier ; the
! ; Courier of Lyons ; the Censor of Journals ;
■ i the Aurora ; the Anti-terrorist pt Tau
loufe ; the Public Accuser ; the Afts of
_ , the Apostles, the Catholic annals ; the Ar
gus ; the Veridique ; the Public Tribune ;
. the Tea ; the Tableau o£ Paris ; the Spee
: tatqr of the North ; the Rhapsodies ; the
■ Qu«ili<iienne, (the daily paper) the Pre
curfer ; the Postillion of the armies } the
; Petit Gautier ; Perlet ; th« Obfervator of
j Europe at Rouen ; the NouvellesPolitiques;
the Mirror ; the MefTager du Soir the
■ Remembrancer.
Names of the Journals placed on the. lift
i of proscription and either It ruck out, or
sent back to the committee for reconfi
i deration.
The ,Analifis of the Journals ; the La
dies Journal ; l'Hiftorien ; th« French Re
piiVlican ; Univerfal Mercury j the
Journal of the theatre ; the Courier of tha
Departments } the Political and Literary
Correspondence ; the French Belgian ; the
National Auditor ; the Bee the Univer
sal annals ; the Port-folio ; the Gazette of
! the Departments ; De tout un peu [a little
; of every thing] ; the Pifture of France
and Europe ; the Evening Journal ; the
! Politicaj an( s Literary Journal of France.
By this day's Marl."
NEW-YbRK, November 20.
Yesterday arrived here, after a paflage of
53 days from Falmouth, his Britannic Ma
jesty's packet Carteret, capt. Taylor. 1
Though a failure of crops, in a degree, 1
may have taken place in England, we have
reason to believe, from a paragraph in a Lon- I
don paper of (he 19th Sepf, that it is not so <
great as might be imagined from fereral late '
publications. The paragraph runs thus: t
"It is with Angular fatisifaftion we find, (
from almost all our corn counties, the mod J
pleasing accounts refpefting the gathering in £
of the corn harvest, notwithstanding the t
late wet and tempeftoous weather ; and that t
all hands, and every day, Sundays not ex
cepted, are devoted to this ufeful work." c
Mr. Vick, the mefTenger, .went from Lon- t
don to Lisle on a thursday, and returned t
the succeeding sunday night. I
t
The Duke of Hamilton, as lord lieuten
ant of the county of Lanerk, in Scotland, '
has ifTued an address, explanatory of the na
ture of the l'nilitia aft, which has had the
best effeft in correfting the mifreprefenta- J
tions that had been maliciously m;.de res- 1
pefting it.
c
By theJhip lietfey, capt. Phelps, arrivedfrom J
Brijlol, in 60 days. t,
OFFICE OF GENERAL POLICE. . 0
Letter from the commiflary of the Executive v
po<wtr atthi central department of the Rhone, r
to the minijler of police. 0
Lyorfs, Sept. 9. 0
The important events which have taken p
place at Paris, attradt universal attention ; a
they have not, however, troubled the com- t
mune of Lyons, and (till less the depart
nieht.—Curiofity and uneasiness occupy all e
minds. The moil clear-sighted of the mcr- t
chants and tradefmea already begin to enter- t
tain hopes of a change of affairs more favor- c
able to their commercial interests. Malev- t
olence is dilmayed and terrified. Its agents a
a few days ago were much more aftive than n
at present. I shall be particular, citizen a
minifttr, at this critical period, in inform- t
ing you of every thing which cfcuaeriTg ■ "n
- -' era! orTndi'viaiiaH'afoty.
J (Signed) ' oOTTIW •
ii Tie cpmnfi/pr,ncr of the Exeeutbue author i/y in
*he criminal tribunal of the department 0]
I. L'Orne, to the minilcr of jufice.
i- AltiKor, 14 Frucliti»r, Sept. u.
c Citizen minister,
I am this inftimt informed, that at Sieez
_ preparations had been made for the organ'i
t zation of the national guard ; that uniforms
with Wajrk collars were quite ready, and
. that the corps were about to be formed into
_ divisions of chaffenrs and grenadiers, under
e the title of Chasseurs and Grenadiers of Pi
e chegrU ; that Prenais, in the department
- of La Sarthe, uniforms had likswife been
hiade, and the plan df infyrreftion had been
. entertained. -/
Fhis proves that it was time to strike the
. conspirators.
' How vast was the fchcme of Pichegru !
r The law which he proposed and carried, was
s nothing more than one of the means to r*n
, der the fuecefs of it more certain,
t Upon this very day were the black coL
: lars to have been brot forward, and the sa
tellites of Pichegru to have (hewn themselves.
Happily theft projefts have been difcon
. certed. Health aud Fraternity !
; (Signed)
I.EROYER LATOURNERIE.
: Anexaftcopy. For the minister of iuftice,
PLEVILLE LEPELEY,
- minister of marine.
X|) c <2>a3 ette.
PHILADELPHIA,
TUESDAY EVENJNQ, NOVEMBER Jr .
Mp.c. Adams's Drawing Room will
commence on Friday Evening, and be
continued one a fortnight through the
winter.
' '■** \ / . •• i , 'O;
Capt. Beard, from Amsterdam, informs,
„ that previous to his failing, the commiflion
ers from the United States to France, had
arrived at the Hague, and proceeded to Pa
ris about the 17th of September. The
Dutch troops from the fleet were di fern bark
ed, and the British fleet still off the Texel.
I
Last evening arrived the (hip Farmer,
capt. M. Collom, from Bourdeaux, which
place (he left the 3d of Oftober, and the
Cordovan the 10th. We not able to
colleft intelligence by this veflel further than
the arrival at Parii of the American Com
missioners.
ExtraS of a letter from Hamburgh, dated
Sept, 19, 1797.
" The imperial minister received, yester
day, an official note, that arders had been
given to release General La Fayette, and
his companions. We have a right t® expeft '
that they are on their way to this place."
Sqrae of th» pap-A-i aftei_a»~M»««;ng the 1
marriage of Col. Humphreys, have added 1
—and have set off for Madeira. It (hould i
be Madrid.
Wignell is about to open his theatre,
with a renovated corps, which is said to b« <
superior to any hitherto seen in America. ]
The partisans of the French triumviri, iti t
tliis country, in juftifying the recent prof- i
tration of the constitution, and their viola
tion of every moral and social principle, have
out done even the tyrants tbemfelves. They 1
haveblafted the proscribed en masse, atfd de
nounced them as traitors, without a lhadow
of evidenge, except the fabrications refpeft- f
ing Pichegru, which it ia to be observed, as- i
feft no other individual amongst them. f
The loss sustained by the republic, in the
person of Carno;, cannot he too higWy esti
mated. He was the fetili of their whole
military fyltem—-and introduced in particu
lar, that mode of dividing the armies, to
which the French owe their mod brilliant
fueeefles. The division of an army into a I
centre and two wings was so modi
fied by Carnot, that each division constitu
ted a diilinft and separate army, afting up
on emergency, entirely independent and f»-
parately. Whoever will review the history
of the last campaign cannot fail to observe
the striking cen equences of this arrange
ment. 1
Carnot was the friend and patron of Bu- £
onaparte ; and that general declares, in a S
letter to the deposed direftor, noticing cer
tain injurious reports refpefting himfelf,
that he esteems it the highest pleasure and
pride of his life, to. have been honored with S
the confidence and friendfhip of Carnot. It
,w not improbable that b« may one day re
venge the injuries of his benefaftor.
A jacobin writer, whofc performance ap
pears in a paper printed at Elizabeth-Town,
New-Jersey, makes the following remarks :
" Whilst some of our }?esevdo-Patri
ots are criminatingihe conduft of the ruling
powers in France, in banishing the traitors to
the government -without /rial, it would-be well
for them to take a retrufpeftive view of our Si
otvn conduS during the revolutionary war B
with England, and be layi/h i*, abus
ing others for what we have countenanced
oiirfelves (for it it a foul bird that dirties its
own nefl) and fee if imperious necessity did not
propel us to afts as atrocious as their'*, such ri
as hanging men without )rial, as the writer of
this aflerts was the cafe in some instances." ri
The writer of the above is called on to 2,
cite an jnftance of Revolutionary phrenzy as- ca
the adoption of the constitution. At what In
time did our executive, in defiance of our b<
constitution, call on the military to seize ,on IV
the molt influential charaftcrs in the senate* F
and heufe of representatives, and compel as
many of their brethren as were in cuitody, (e
at the point of thq bayonet to acquiesce in to
the" tran(portation of thtir fellow-citizens, B
n- without trial ? At what time were either b
tin- fret citations of the [bites colJjiSlively
or individually, anulled by a'inilitarv man
date ? At what time have the peofcle ol
u: America been so loft to their right's and
oj their honor, as to submit to such degrada
tion as results froni the late oi
the arbitrary and usurping triumvirate oi
Fiance ? As to the pretext that thsft
unfortunate men were royalists, it never will
'i- be believed ; for if they were, they would
a* have been tried as such, and surely 501,000
'd armed veterans who are at the call of the
0 triumvirate were fufßcient to prevent their
" r cfcape during trial. Freemen will remem
ber that to juftify such atrocities is to encou
11 rage the repetition,
n —«««-«—-
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
1 Tuesday, November 21.
3 Ona member of the Senate is yet want
.. ing to make a quorum. The Houses eon
fequeßtly adjourned till to-morrow.
:•
. The Senators of the United States in
town are, from the State of
" New-Hampfliire j Mr. Langdon, and
[_ Mr. Livermore.
Maflachufetts , Mr. Goodhue.
Conne&icut " Mr. Tracy.
RRode-Ifland | JJr. ™cr, and
, i Mr. Greene.
Vermont Mr. Paine.
New-York Mr. Lawrance.
NeW-Jcrfev Mr. Stockten.
Pennsylvania Mr. Bingham.
Delaware - Mr. Latimer.
Kentucky Mr. Marshall.
North-Carolina f Martin, and
£ Mr. Bloodworth.
South-Carolina Mr.^Read.
Georgia Mr. Gunn.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED DAV«
Ship Concord, Tbompfon, Batavia 104
Brig Susannah, Beard, Amsterdam 56
Abigail, Babcock, Belfaft 70
Mentor, Venn, Wilmington, D.
Scltr. Ranger, Hensford, Norfolk 9
Weymouth, Guthrie, New-York 6
Favorite, Shaw, Portland 7
A (hip below from Hamburg.
CLEARED.
Ship Harry, Ehreiiftrom, Gonaives
Brig Experiment, Hefs, Cayenne
Schr. Sally, Schcrer, do.
Ship Dominick Terry, D«hart, frem
Lisbon, is below.
A Galliot, is belew—name and pert
whence, unknown. ,
Ship Cleopatra, Smith, from Lifbsn,
it said to have parted her anchors and gane
to, sea in the gale on Wedncfday last.
The Amenia, Hardie, Mary, Quan
drille, Abby, William's, Fair Hebe, El
dridge, Guftaf Adulpk, Ruamp, and fevc
ral others left Reedy Island yesterday morn
ing.
Arrived last evening at the Point the (hip
Farmer, M'Collom, .38 days from Bour
deaux. The Eliza, Haftit, failed for this
port 20 days before the Farmer.
The following vefTels had arrived from
this port.
Ship Hope, Bembridg':
Alexander, Browu
Eelro, ,
Brig Benjamin Franklin, Jane#.
Arrived the Susannah,, Beard, from Am
sterdam, from whence (he failed the 22dof
September.—Left there the following ves
sels :
Ship Niagara, Armour, of New-York.
Leeds Paeket, Bunce, do.
Independence, Tdbour, do.
Orange, Stewart, do.
Fox, Lincoln,' Charlelton
Liberty, Gardner, Baltimore
Sally, Stytes, do.
Brig Endeavour, Macy, Boston
Ruthy, Simons, do.
Lovely Lass, Dominick, Philadelphia <
Grace, Wills, do. to fail in 7 days. j
Fame, Williams, Baltimore
Mary, Ward, New-York
At Bremen, Sept. 5. c
Barque Howard, Allen, of Hudson t
Ship Nancy, Moore, Baltimore /
! At Hamburgh, Oft. 2, by the Aurora. v
Ship Brj-ing, Beach, of Philadelphia
Asia, Lamb, Boston (
Juno, Blake, do
Rising Sun, Bradford do
Vidtory, Spafford, do r
John, Folger, do
Paragon, Lindfay, do p
Teoneflee, Smith, New-York f
Mary, Baker, Portland . o
Rajah, Seton, • New-York 0
Lucy, Conolly, Charleston 0
Enterprize, Lang, Providence), R. I. p
Snow Afton, Burnham, Newburyport
Brig Two Friends, Merrill, Portsmouth N. h. j,
Induftty, Hall, N evv b ur yP ort d
' Elizabeth, Picket, do v
Hannah, Stu.tfon, Boston
Ship Union# Porter, of Baltimore, ar
rived atCuxhaven, Oft. 2d.
The (hip Concord, capt. Thompson, ar- j
rived yesterday from Batavia. Sailed Aug. ] e
2, '97, in company with the barque Eliza, 1
capt. Hodges, of and for Salem ; brig O- E
live Branch, Captain Lambert, of Salem, f
bound to Bencoolen. Left there th£ (hip
Minerva, capt. Loring, of Boston, and (Lip
Four Sifters, capt- Ray of Beverly.
On the 3d, in the Straits of Sundy, pas- t
fed the snip Sjperb, capt. Gardner, of Bos
ton, 7 months froth Rotterdam bound to
Batavirj.
°J r ? Cp o Ca P £ ' o£ Good Hope fceaiW
J,. Ehj S about 15 l eag;les , f pi , ke the
• liazen, capt. Hutch",ns, of. and from Si
| Km ,o°und to ,Batav; a , out 95 days.
' 1 S n A 'rV a T rr,V< ' d at He!ena ; found
a- tKe fii.p John Jay, capt. Hazwell, of and
ot for Bouoa from Batavia.. She failed the
01 28th.
h 29th, St. Helena.
J!! T ,° a / e;i,r ' ? 11 P with and fpokt the
Id Jortn Jay above mentioned—all well.
In Batavia, (he utmost exertions were
l e ma 4 li ' 1 m the place, as they ex
ir pec.ed a v,(,t from the British in Ofiober or
n- .November.
li i
Copy of a letter f rom Capt. Cooper, of tk- ft.it,
~™" re ' LoVnd '° Ch ' na ' t0 Samuel Ha ™-
r ' f'fl' °f'his City, dated off Anger Point,
July 2a, 1797. ,
> u f ° Ur manths > A *h I left
the Delaware capes, and I am happy to in
t- ™ Z on °f m y fafe arrival off this without
: re " lv,n g a T injury or accident during the
: r a,fa ge—and I hope to be in Canton in 1 c
.or 18 days more-—I experienced 22 clays
a I head winds in th« Western Ocean—lt is
j w n ,th ■ P'cafure I fay nobody has hid an hours
d . lllnefs fwee onr departure from America—l
ipoke.no vessels on the passage.
" Sl. S. COOPER.*'
The fliip New-Jersey, capt. George Clav
from this port to Canton, entered 1 the
Stieights of Sunda the ißth July— 8 e day*
from the Capes of Delaware.
The Britiih frigate Hermione, whieh was
lately carried into Laguira by the crew, ha»
not h?en fitted out by the Spaniards, but is
t0 >or '° Caballo and there laid up
the crew were dispersing in every dire&ioa
as fail as they could.
Our Hamburg papers by eapt. Doffon
are only to the 23d Sept. Some few arti
. tides, of secondary importance, will be
translated for our next.
. sTZr^
AT AUCTION.
' For falc at no clock, on Thursday morning- n«L t
> on Morton's wharf, for approved indorsed no- t
at 60 days about 3,500 bufhells Cadiz Salt, frdm
( on board the Polacre St. Domingo, in lots of
. bulh«ls; alio, 24 casks of good Sherry Wine.
Footman Co. Auctioneers.
nov 2t
for london;
PENN,
jAMts J° s »Ah, Master.
V i f k 'P' s now taking on board her cargo, and
will Tallin all next week. For freight or paCtec
apply to the captain, or to
jejfe sis Robert Wain.
nov 21.
fOR SALE—by the Subscriber t) ~
An elegant afTortment of Madrafs
HANDKERCHIEFS, by the hale.
WILLINgS ss" FRANCIS,
" 0T - "• | Pcnn-flreet.
Keal b-ftate for ;>a]e,
PLANTATION, in a healthy and good si.
tuation on Chester Cr.ek, in Middleton
1 ownS>ip, Delaware County, containing iiql
acres, upward, of jo acres of which are wold
land, well timh.re I ; the rsmiinder plough land
and watered mtaitow-„f the latter, many more
acre, can be made at a small eipence. There dre
on said premises, a good orchard of heft grafted
fruit, a honfe, with a spring near the door, a frame
barn with (tabling under, and a log tenement on
one part of said p'ace Any ?; ,fon inclining
tp purchase, may new the premift. hyapnlWne
to W„ Pknmsll, on said farm, and ktioVthe
terms hy applying to Jonathav Pinneil, in. the
Borough of Chester.
November 21. Co( j
Yellow Fever and Peftileatial
Diseases.
1 HIS DA\ IS PUBLISHED in one vol o<Savo.
By William Young, Boolfe/ler,
No. ja, Second street, the corner oi Chefnut ltreet,
f Price, in l/oardi.t] I z Cents J
Neatljr printed on fine American wove medium
Paper,
A VIEW
Of the Science of Lifk ;
On the principles eftabliflied in th» elem-nts
of Medicine, of the late eelebrated
JOHN BROWN, M. D.
With an attempt to correfl forne important er
rors of that work, and cases in illuUuion, chief
ly le!e<sted from the records of their pra&ice, at
the General Hospital at Calcutta, '
T r M 2 ATES & CHAS. MKCLRAN.
To which is fufej.ined, a Treatise on the a&ion
ot Meicnry upon living bodies, and its applica
tion for tMe cure of diseases of indireiS debility
And adiflertation onthe sources of Epidemicand*
l'eftilential diseases; in whichisattempted toprove
by a numerous induction of fafts, that they ne
ver aril'e from contagion, but are always produ
ced by certain states, or certain viciffiiudes of
the atmofpheie, by Charles Maclsan, of
Calcutta.
" Qv - fin
N O TIC E.
Stockholders of the Bmk of the United
JL States are informed that according to the
Pltute of Incorporation a general lllciftion for
tw»nty five Directors will be held at the Rank
ot the United State, in the City of Philadelphia,
on Mon 'ay the nrft day of January next at ten
o'clock in the forenoon-
And puWnant to the FUvenlh feiflion of th«
Bye Laws the Stockholders of the £aid Bank
arc hereby nonfie'd to alTemble in general Meet
ing at the fame place on Tuefda# the feennd
day of January next at five o'clock in the E
yjqing.
By order cf the Board nf dire ftort,
G. SIMPSON, Calhier.
Second fundamental Article.
Not more than three fourths of trte Diretfor*
in ofSye, ex-'ufivfef the President, shall be e-
Ugible for the next fuccceding year, but the
lienor whn (hall be President .ttthe time of an
E i flion may olwsyjbe re-aleifted.
l J li:ladelphia, nov. 18 1797. ftE.
I he Canal Lottery,
Will re-commence drawing, on Monday
the 20th inft.
ROBERT BROOKE,
Check Clerk.
No*. Jl. - dtao.Cnn d Lottery —No. 11. j
"I'Jf J lt-L conlmeofcedrawing r.Ton lay, thezsth '
W iuft. Tickets fir Sale in this Lntttry, at
Si-vtu Datlare, at Wm. SLAGKBURN's Lottery M
and lir.ilccts OiH?-, Ho. 64 South Second-ftrcet— j
Tickets iij Ihe : chuy!!c:U Bridgs Lottery, at fern I
ih'Uni, whae clieclc hooks arc kept ior regifler- tii
ing - :il.ling in rhefe. the City o! Walhihg
ton, No- lu and Paterton Lotteries, and informs- d;
tir.n v.-heri- tvkets may be had in molt of the Lotte- CI
rifi yuthoi'iiij Uy law 10 any of the States ol the bi
tJnioß. cc
• M. B. The hufinef" of a Broker, in buying and t<
f.-Ui'-; all kinds of Public Stock and Sfcmifie*. I<-
difcoii'.ti g Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of p,
' undt* iloufes, &c. &c. will be duly attende d to,
tv WM. BLACKBURN. p
Hcvtmher ir
sTI KT 7 f
A NV -lerfon having raw Silk of Amcrwr-n or tl
j \ F'* nirjn produce, may hear of a pur- p
th'-ftf who wiilgive a liberal price for tht fame, o
A replication to be made at the store of Robert ti
Li.v. is, jun. Ne. 70, Pine Street wharf, any
time before the 12th of January next.
-Nriv. 10. *">■'.
From Marseilles. K
THKCARGO
Of tSeJiwcdlih barque Guftavus Adolphus,fi om -
Marseilles, confiding of the following articles,
lvifchsrging at Mr. Latimer's wharf, and for
sale by the fubferibers
BltAiNUr, well flavored, of 3, 3 & 4th proof; J
Chret, in hogsheads | R
I>jtt<>, in cases- j f
Proiit^<wt Wine, in cases of 30 bottles Iti
,Olive riil, of a ftiperior cpialay, in baskets of 6 a
and 12 battles v
Capers
Oliver,
Airtlonds J
Dry Verdigresfe
Writing Paper
Umbrellas (Silk) of . 3, 30 and 32 inches
Taffeties ,
L'lig and short white Kid Gloves for Women k
Silk Stockings _ , 1
Handkerch'efs, in imitation of M*drafs
Artiti'ijl Fin '.vers and Garlands
Ostrich leathers f
Rrlibo'ir- ,
Perfumery 1
Scented Hair-Powder and Pomatum .
Manna in forls
Cfeam Tartar.
BRNJAMIN MORGAN &
ROBE-RT ANDREWS.
•SeptcmUer 27.
'School Books and Stationary.
W. YOU NG,
No. ti, Second-street, corner of Cliefnut-ftreet,
HAS now ready for sale, a very large assort
* ment of Englijh, French, Latin and Greet
SCHOOL BOOK r. Aljb, furh elementary boeks .
on Science, as are generally read in the academies
and colleges throughout the United States.
LATELY fUBLISUED,
Sheridan's Di&ioqary, the lixth edition, in one
lar;,'C V'd. 8 vo price 3' ( ' o!s - *
Ditfo,.large 12 mo price I dol 75 cts.
Ditto, common, price X dol. 50cts. (
All forts of drawing, packing, printing, and ,
writing Papir ; 'Bookbinder's ijoards, Pafteboirds, ,
aid Ulottiug Papers; printed Blanks ,
blank Book*, WaK, Wafers, and other articles, ef ,
the heft quality, used in tiic coaming house, or
public office <
Catalogues of a mifcellancousr collection of
BOOKS, Xvith tlie price of each affixed, to be had
by inquiring as above. Q&. M«-3aw6sr_
Walker & Kennedy,
No. 73, South Front Street, *
HAVE FOR SALE,
100 Hogsheads of prim? Georgia Tobacco,
ALSO,
50 Pipes of Bt>nrdeaux Brandy,
10 Pipes of old Port Wine'
pa. r
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, a-«l cheaper than sny other to
the City—
OF VARIOUS sizes,
From Bby 6 to 19 by »4,
Bv the finele Sox or Qu.ntity, may be bad at the
(lore of the Subferibers, cornet of Arch and Front
ft C '' James C. & Samuel W. Fijher.
Philadelphia, luneq, 17Q7-
' i 5 Dollars Reward.
RAN- AW "SY from the Sublcriber, on the 29th
inft. an apprentice I,ad, named JOSLi tl
BAKNET, by trade a paper-maker ; about 19
year- of age, five feet seven or eight inches high,
of a lioht complexion, tics his hair. Had on, and
took with him, acaflor bat, half wt,rn, one brown
mixture cloth eoitee, new, one light do. half
worn one iifiped velvet waistcoat, with blue
tloth h?cks, one do. with fufth.n hacks, and fwi
dry other thin clothes. It is probable he will changs
his clothes, as he took a number with him.
Any person apprehending faii apprentice, and
teem ing him • that I can g.t him again, ihall re
ceive the above reward, and reafonakle charges if
brought home. PE f er BEQHTEU
Lower Mcrion township,
Montgomery county.
October J«. Nt—law jw.
""This Day is Published, .
BY MelT. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, «d the
rubor Bookfeilers,
Price One Dollar and twenty-five centsi
lAegant'j printed on IVove paper, and Hot
preJfeJ,
By John 1 horopfon,
A COMPARATIVE VIEWOF
The Gonftitutions
Of the several States with each other, and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in fables,
the prominent features of eaeh Constitution, and
cUffinz together their most impsrtant provihons,
under the several heads of ad.niniftration ; with
Notes andObfervations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,'
Of South-Carolina,
L L. D. and member of the Congress of the
United States.
Dedicated to tha People of the United Strifes.
N. B- A Few Copi-s printed dn an inferior pa
per, at 3-4 ths of a dollar.
V February 6 mwf
Philadelphia, Oct.
ALL person* desirous to contrail to furnilh Ra
tions and Quarter Matter'* Stores,during the
veat 17'J3, for the troops in Philadelphia, Fort
Mifflin, on Mud Tfiand, Carlisle ana Reading, or
any of them, are desired to deliver their proposals,
under a fealf-d cover, on or before the 20th Nov
venocr next, to _
TENCH FRANCIS, Purveyor.
The Rations to eonfijl of
y pound Ftaur or Bread ,
1 pound Beef, or 3 4 of a pound of Pork
gill Rum, Braidy or vV hificey _
l I'j. Candles
j lb. Soap C To every hundred rations
fclftr^thN
LAW BOOKS, )
Latefl London and Dtibim Editions.
H. sis P. RICE, Book fellers,
No. Ifs South Second, and No. 50* Market street.
f T AVE j'nft received by the J/ite arrival from I
IJL London and Dublin, their tyring imports- i
tiorj, copiiiiing of a variety of the tat eft and nwft |
approved ] .aw Bootes, whfeb ad'ied to tHose alrea- j
dy on hand, forms the moll extensive collection ev- (
cr offered for file in this country. "»~hev thei dore j »
heglea\4to notice, that from the nature of their
connc&iciisin Dublin, they are cnaVtcd to lelUrilh
editions (as they have hitnerto done) at the-very
lowcft prices. The following are among the latefl
publications.
Vefey, jiin'rs Reports in Chancery, t X%,A.
Peakc's Cases at Nisi Prius ; Ridgeway's Reports
in the time of Lord HgrdwtckVf ; Vioycr's Procters
Pra&icc in the KcclefialVical Court* : B%toa s
Treatifc on a Suit in Equity ; Tidd's Pra&ice of
the Court of KirvVs Bench in Personal Actions, 2
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
on Uses ; modern Reports, 11 vols. London edi
tion.
H. and P. Rice ospecft t» receive by the firfl ar
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
Durnford and East's Reports, the ad part of Gil?
. berths Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
new publications.
June 26.
The History Pennsylvania,
By KOBERT PROUD,
IS now in (he press, and will he published,
with all convenient expedition, by Z.ECHA
riah Poulson, jun. No. 80, Cliefnut-ftreet,
I Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue
I to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed propofalj, nhtil the
work is ready for the fubferibers.
July 18. ' lawtf
~ THIS DAY WAS PUBLISHED,.
And for ftle by THOMAS DOBSON, at the
Stona House, No. 41, south Second ftrect,
EVENINGS at HOME ;
OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED.
Confiding of a variety of Mifeellaneous Pieces for
theinftru&ion and amusement of YOUNG PER
SONS— SixVolumesbandfomely prifitedand bo«nd
up iu two volumes, price Two Dollars.
The variety and excellence of these pieces are
such, that the book needs only to be known to be
univcrfally esteemed one of tht mod valuable pub
lications th t can Ve put into the hands of young
ptrfons.
" Delightful talk to rear the tender thought,
To teacii the young idea how tu shoot,
To paur tl»« frelh inftruiflion o'er the mind,
To breathe th' enlivening fpirit,and to tlx
The gsnereus purpose in the glowing breast."
Thomson.
August 24. mwf4w
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHSD,
By THOMAS DOBSON, at the Stone House,
No. 41, south Second Greet,
Letters and Conversations,
* Between feve»»l YoUng Ladies, on improving and in
-1 terelling fubjeiSH.
Trinflated from the Dutch of Madame di Camim
with alterations and improvements, '
Printed onJim paper, and neatly bound,
Price one dollar.
AMIDST the tide of modern Rwnances, painting
tales ef extraordinary diftrofs, or of defperatc or
artful fiilainy, which " harrow up the foul," and
' wtich it would be for the honor of young ladies »e
' be ignorant of, tht* little book comas forward to so
licit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, notfx
r ceeding the bounds of real life, the proper, because
elegant and natmral dignity and importance of tht Female
fharailtr it exhibited in an intercfling poi»t of view,
and presents examples of rjal and attainable excel
lence.
The publisher wasfomuch pleased with the psrn
> fil, that he was persuaded he (hould do a pleafinj
to the community by fending it ill • cirou
latmn. . August 24 —mw4w
'' Atf? laying Duties on Stamped Vellum
Parchment and Paper.
A FEW copies of the above ad may be had ai
f he Office of the Oazette of the United States, No.
119, Chefrut-ftreet. July 19.
The Partnerfliip,
n T TNDER the firm of FREEMAN ts" Company,
V_J is dissolved by mutual eonfent. AU persons
having any demands against thefaid House are de
it fired to render the fame to T. B. Freeman ; and
t. those indebted to the House are desired to make pay
ment to him —By whom business will in future be
carried on,at hUStore, No. 39, South Front-street.
August 7- eod4W
Richard and James Potter
HAVE removed thsir Counting House to No.
* August t. w&f6t
1. Lanca'ier, Harrijburgh Carli/le,
Shtppenjburg and Sunbury
" STAGES.
'T'HE public are requested to take notice, that
V J. thefartnerlhip which Irss for some time fub
filled between Mathias Slough of Lancaster, and
icl William Geer, is now dissolved : bat, not as M
1" Slough insinuates to the public without juil cause
as w ill more fully appear by a letter on the fub
je£l from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated thi* '• 9til
December latt. a recital of which is not now deem
ed ncceflary. Any gentleitiar. who wifiicv to be
more circumstantially informed of the merits ol
_ this business, by applying to W. Geer may hav<
the peruial of M. Slough's letter, and then can bt
at full liberty to determine whether or not W
Geer is not perfedly jtiftifiable in attaching him
felf to any other person in the prosecution of th<
Stage wonveyanc; from Philadelphia to Shippcnf
urg, or any other place.
Now from tbelibe»al and generous fopport thi
public were to confer on the firfl effort it
this business, William Geer, in conjuuiftion wist
Messrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determine(
to prosecute and carry it on, with eviiry care, at
tention anddifpatch»hat a to obllgethepub
es ; lie can possibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provide(
ni > w ith rarriages, horses, and every appurtenance ti
'th rei ider the passage lafe and commodious, inforn
those wno wi(h to patronize and encourage th
undertaking, that they can take their feats a
George Weed's, fign of the fahite Horse
:hc Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monda
and Friday, to-proceed to Lancaster, Plarrifburu
s. Carlisle and Shippenfburg. The fare as hithert
>a- eftablilhed.
For the further accommodation of the publi<
a Stage will start every Wednesday from the houf
of Samuel Elder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every ThurMaj
U- and re*urn from thence and arrive »fc Hatrifbur
:he every Saturday, so that passengers destined so
ort Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed o« Mon
or days.
as, WILLIAM GEER.
f°i Lancaster, Jan. 27. 1797-
N. 11. This Line ef Stages ftart9 from th
>r. house of William Ferroc, in Lancaster, or. ever
Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 o'tlntlt, pre
ceeding to the yfeftwardj and Irom the house c
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg every Wedncl
day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trirk Cochran's in Shippcnfbnrg, and returr
from thence on every Thursday : performing th
13 fame routine daily at in its tour from Bhilade
r phia. ' Wff
Imported hi the' latest anivaSsfrom
Amfterdim am! anJ foriale by
B. & ]. BOHI.EN, tv
A large ajfarlrnent of fine French Cambrics, I'
P'atillas ' J Ruftia md Dutch l'ailcloth is
IS'-ittarnias Waiting, post.'and print- to
Roiiar.es mg paper
Brown Holland Dirch call skins ' s
Checks andllripes Prime madder
Ticklenburgs ' Shcll'd B,arlty ' el
Oznahurgs Looking glaffcs
White sheetings Hollow glass wart 'i 1
Diaper Slates
Brown rolls Coffee mills _
Umbrellas Bral's kettles
Halt ribbons Scythes and Itraw Univw
Black aud whitelaces Toys aflbrtej in boxes
Befl Holland Gin in pipes
London particular Mai.eira Wine
July 24. ro&thtf M ;
Th-omas Herman Lfuffer, «■<
North Fifth ftrest, corner of North alley, No. 34, d "
HAS rOR SALE,
Tj 1 XCHI.LKNTred bourdeaux Wine incafesand v >
Xj boxes, fix years old / 31
White Graves Wine 111 calks
Ticklmbtirgs % r
Rulfia Bail Clotlts, ra
Ravens Duck p
Bag Linen
Heflians p,
Diaper and Table Cloth r ;
Kmpty bags u
Common German Cloth
An affortmentof black coloured Ribbons „
Fine German Laces n
About twelve tons RuSia clean Hemp a '
Clover Heed f,
Italian Soap, in small boxes, for family use
Window Glass Aug 19 —law p
TENERIFFE WINE. «•
LANDING at Wainut-ftreet *Mrf, TENE
PIFFE VINE, of excellent quality, in pipes aud "
half pipes, for bit by JAMES YARD. " J
Oil. m. ««8t "
I" ■ ■|■ || 1 ■ ■' "■■ ••
sanded, »
From on board the ship A dive, Capt. Blair,from "
Kambusgh,
2* bales white Ruflia clean Hemp
1 calks CKiver Seed
For (Sale by " L
Tbomat Herman Leuffer,
North Fifth street, No. 34. j
Tunc 16. i p
~TO BE SOLD,
And immrdialt poffejjiin givtn,
A Convenient well Unified Brick I enement,
with a cook house aodother out houfet,fau
lted in a pleafam fart of the borotigh of Wilming
ton, in the State of Delaware—l'he lot cf ground
has forty foot front on Weft-Orcet, and extends j 1
through she fquarc to Pafture-flreet, on which is j
ercded a liable and tarriage htinfc.
ALLEN M'LANE.
Wilmingtoo, Aug. 30.
Imported »i the Jhip P'&ou,
And for sale by John Morton, No. 116, South ;
Front-street,
Hyson
Hyson Skin
9 Young Hylon C
Imperial j
April 20. eotf
Fsr sale or to be let on ground
rent,
valuable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-sift corner of Wal
nut and filth Areets, fronting the State-
Honfel'quare. lot is Afty-one feet front
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an hall" on Fifth street. ; there are at
present two l'mall two flory brick houses, and a
.number of small tenements thereon.
Alfa, for Sale,
Two three flory Brick Houses
With convenient flares, wharf, &c. situate 011
Water-street, between Mulberry and Saffafras
ftreett, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. Thtfe houses
' ave the con venitmce of a public alley adjoining
j on the north fide, andaie a very defirabie iitua
' tion for a merchant, flour fadlor,or others who
c may have occasion forftorageof goods. This
property will be fold ttt very reafonallc tornis
forcalh. For further informal ion apply to the
printer.
July 31. mfcwtf
City of Washington.
, SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the IntprovciQNit of the Federal City.
A magnificent dwelltng-houfe JO,ccc dollars.
»t & cash 3C,'Oc6, are jo.oor.
>• I ditto if,ooo & cash as,oo® 40,0r.
d ' 1 ditto 15,000 & ca;h 15,000 3©,00 d
f- 1 dy;K> 10,000 & calh 10,000 30,000
; i iiitto 5;0oo k calh 5,000 'O,OOO
'* 1 ditto 5,000 & cadi 5,000 io,troo
1 1 ca(h prize of ro.ooo
l " % do. 5,000 ;ach,ire • 10,000
'r 10 do. I,oiio - - to,ooo
10 do. ' " 10,000
00 do. KW> - - 10, coo
" 100 do. 50 * " io,ocw
j. 400 do. 15 ' 10,000
le 1,000 do. 10 - 10,000
f. I5»oog do. 'c • »58,00n
le 16,739 Prizes.
In 3J,a6l Blanks. •
Si '
:d 50,000 Tickets, at Eight £)ollw», 400,004*
b- N. B. To favour thofewho may qunn
ti,ty of Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
:d che last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 thf last
to but on» :
ni And approved notes, fccupinj* payment in cither
be money or prizes, in ten days atter drawing, will
at be received for any number not lef6than 30 tick
re, ets.
»y This Lottery will afford a» elegant specimen of
gi the private buildings to be ere<9ed in the City of
to Walhingron—Two beautiful designs are already
leleded for the tiltirc fronts 011 two of the public
ic, squares; from these drawing-it ispropofed toered
ife twocentreaud f ourcornerbuildings as foonaspof
n- fible after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
iy. when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
rg the manner described in the scheme for the Hjutc. 1
or Lottery. A nett dedu&ion of five per cent, will
n- be made to defray the neceflary expenses of print
ing, &c. and the furplu? will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National Univerlfty, to
be ere<3.ed within the city of
he The real fccuritiesgiyen for the payment of the
ry Brizes, are heldhy the Frefident and two Dired
o- ors of ths Rank of Columbia, and are valued at
of more than half the amount' of the lottery.
;f. S/tMVEL HLODGIi;r.
'a- .§* Tickets may be had at the Bajik. of ColkW
■ns Ida ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of fettr
he Gilmar., liofton ; of John Hopkins, Richmond :
el- and of Richard W f !fe, Cooper's Ferry.
mwf
A Negro Man, ,
' me
TTOR S the unexpired me (four y ears) opt
JL of a ftrtut, healthy, ailive egro Man. He tha
is by ri' a Cooper, was brought up when a hoy difi
to the farming hufinefs, is a good gjoughman, nn- Ihc
derllandsthe care sr.d managemeufof horses, and >ev
is a gpod driver He has lately been employed in sup
painting a new house and paints well—he'is good Ko,
temper d,and believed to be very hone!!, fclrl part- Jo
ly for want of employ, hut more for being aWift- AV
ed to liqujr—For te!*tr apply to No. ii, Dock Wi
street, nnar Sprnce ftreot. S-l
Xov 6- Ju
The Philadelphia, Aijion, gnd 7 uchertun Ps
MA I L STA GE. '2
rHS proprietors be^leave to inftm the public, that yo,
they ha-oe e/}abtybe4 z Stage betxvt-n Phii.;(.'cl;<hia t ■ Jjei
At/ion, Batfio, Hampton, Spew well, and Fur- |
rtace, IVcdin* River jlittihg rxi/l, and the ivzvrt (if H'mk-r
eriun, in Neiv-yerfey t to go mice a luetkj aiul art provi
ded it itb good borfeiy a comfortable carriage and a care
ful driver, for the conveyance of the mat!, pafcngen, and
goods. The SUive ivill flirt every Tburfday, at IO
; o'ciock, A. M. from Mr. Daniel Cooper s Ferry, and
lodge that night at "Joel Bodire*s, 'at Lungacoming ; and
on in Friday at 6 o'cfoct, P. AT. arrive at CiUb F.-
vans's i inkeeper, in Tuckerton, difant from the siiy 54 evt
niUs % (Jfom the Atlantic 6, andfrovithe East Grwftng c
Plains 1 miles) cohere arc good accommodation fir tra
vellers, and ivli'ere are commodious andJafe passage bnqts A
pravided to convey pctflcngers to Capt. IVil. 'uirn ifrar- •
ringtons house, on Tucitr's Island, adjoinining the At
lantic, ivbere are good accommodations, and a convenient
yh:ce to bathe ; the fportftnan who itAfbes to regale himfelf
ititb fowling andff'ings may at this place be highly gr J
tified y there being at attxpfl every feafoii of the year fcAi'l
audffb in abundance. —'The Stage on its return,farts
from the aforefaid C. Ei>*ns's in Tucker ton y every Tuaf
</ay, at Co'clock, A. M. breshfafb at John Bodine's, at
IV'ading River Bridge, lodge that night at Longacoming,
and at 1 o'clock, .P. M. on Wednesday, arrive at the
aforefaid Cooper s Ferry. It is presumed that no route of
an equal difance luill be Irfs e\penftve, or furnijb the tra
veller ivith a greater variety of amusement, as he trill
nut only have a pleasant fail to the atiantic from Tueler
ton, but have the curiojity of feeing on the road thither a
number of capital furnaces and forges, and one flitting
mill, in complete order, and at Tver It ; gentlemen, too, -who F!
are oivntrs, or factors, of any of the aforefaid iron icorbs,
are folulted to entourage and support this flage (by toh>ch
they can be so well accommodated) the continuance of which
will much depend on their aid. The rates of pajfeng&is
and baggagj are as fallows : For a passenger from tbe
afutefatf Daniel Cooper's Ferry to Tucker ton, including
14 lb. of baggage, Two Dollars ; for TV ay passenger s
per mile, Four Ci'nt*——lso lb. of baggage equal to a pas
senger. Pofiage of lettert,eixfpapers, \£c. will be g
agreeably to law.
N. B. Tbe mail the Old. Ferry.
THOMAS IVARDLK Co. I
Tuckcrton, Sept. 28. Ocl. 5. — laWtf
" The Norfolk~Mail STAGE.
\ r 1 'HIS Stage starts from the GEORGE Tavern,
I X at the corner of Second and Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, every TufJay, Tburftay, and Satur
day, at j o'clock, in the irornihg ; arrives at I)o- |
vcr the si"it day, at Snowhill the second day, at
Northampton CeurtHoul'e the third day, and on ,
the morning of tbe fourth day the pallengcrs find i
a iafe and comfortable packet to convey, them to r
Norfolk. ]
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton fei ry,
every Tnefday, Thurfiay and Saturday, and the ,
S'aije starts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every i
M .nJay, Wsdnefday and Friday; puts up a{ Snow <
Hill thsfirft night, at Dover the id night, and art
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day.
The distance on this route, between Philadelphia
apd Norfolk, is Jo miles less than on any stage route
between those places '
Too much cannot be said in favor of. the road,
which is most excellent indeed. The proprietors
[ willingly engage to »eturn the whole fare to any
paflenger, \v!uj, after having performed this routs,
' will fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the fame
diftaoce, so goodaroad in americit.
1 Anguft 11. dim, entf.
Hrfkine's View of the War.
1 JUST PUBLISHED,
» By ROBERT CAiVTi-'BELL & Co.
No 40 South Second street,
[Price 31 Cenw]
e A View of the Causes tkid Consequen
ces of ihe present War with Tranet.
Bv the Honorable Thomas Erskine.
0 May 15 }
- "STATE T RIA LS.
* Sold b W. Yoong, Bookseller, No. sa, South Sii
cond-flrect,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
CONtaining the u:ipeac'nment, trial, and actu
al of Francis Hopkinfen, Judge of tbe Cow vt of
admiralty, and John Nicholfon, C mpiroller Gen
eral—ln one large S vo. vol. Price, in boasds, 3
dollars.
W. Young kas for sale, a gen.eral affortmcrtof
Hooks. Also, Stationary, retail and by the paci
tge, well aQorted.aiid lUtitled to the drawback if
)o -ixpojtcd. July * 1
Fpr Saie,
)0 That tvel! inourn place, citil&d l r 4Kpsokjft's
,o 'f't« v,
, 0 Nelhaminy creak, 18 miles from Phila
,o U ladelphia, on the Kcw York ptift road,
)0 containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
)c premises are a large two ltoiy stone house occu
3, pied asatvern, and a good onaftory flont kit
;Kl chtn, a large frame liable with a good threlhing
floor, and fomc out buildings—also a well of
no good Water, and an excellent ice House. On
„ t , this place is a most elegant situation fora gentle
nr man's feat, commanding avew of the T.'ctham
iny toits junflion wiih the and thence
acrofsto the Jerfty lliore. It has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
Fpr terms apply to the SnWcriber,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
_ Yay 14- ■ itawif.
be COLUMBIA HOUSE
sr Boarding School for yOung Ladies.
-a /TliS. GROOMBRIDGE with much pleas
-ill IVI lire and relpcft, returns her sincere ac
-k- knowledgemcnt for the liberal encouragement
she has received during four years refulenae is
of Philadelphia; and assures her friends and tht
of public, so far from intending to decline her
idy i'chool, (he has made a superior arrangement tor
>lic the more convenient accoiiHViot'.ation of her
ed. scholars. —Every branch of ni'eful and pr-lite
°f- education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
;m > Groombridge jnd masters excelling m their
* !1 refpc£ltve ptofefti ons,
ltcl Corner of Sprues and Eleventh Streets,
June sth, 1797-
nt " The situation is perfeflly healt'ty ( and made
more agreeable by an cxtenli ve garden and lot
of grraind adjoining the houle. (
h l ' Publi/hed,
.at And to be had of MefTrs. DoVfon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal Ilookfcllers in fie
city,price one dollar, twmty-f.ve cents,it: board*,
m- I\ev/ Views of the Origin of the
I" Tribes and Nations of America.
' .By benjamin sjArn barton, m. d.'
; June 40. *^ lt
Philadciphu ,0I J.
I'HF. subscribers inform their ld cufla
mers in town and country, that th^PP.rarc now
open in the city, and others are d*ty op jui/g, vriid
that from the prcfent appearance ef the prevailing
disorder l ave rcafon to hope, their friends may
fuort!y come to the city with perfect. fif.ty. By
fevejal lata arriVais, number-, have received fre!h
supplies of GOODo.
Robert Smith ~'Jj Co. P. IV. Gallau/iet U C«.
John tiaiiis iif Co. Sitgrea-ves & French,
Neill y Smith, George Dob/on,
Wi'.tberger and Smith, Thomas RyerJon,
Alex Bit/landand Co. T. R. Hardenberg.
Jacob Spcrry and Co. "John Smith and Co"
O-lven iy' Jona. Jones, Thomas Orr,
Kefpele ij Zantzinger, William Barker & Ce.
Adam Zantzinger, Thomas Armat £3° Sin.
John Fries, J. Miller, jun. end Co.
■ Benjamin *S'J■ Jehu/en.
oa. 14
POYNTELL's
Paper Hangings Manufactory,
No. 70, Chefnut-ftreet,
IVhere ha has for Sale,
A VERY extensive stock, of every colour, and
of the mofL approved patterns, fuiuble for
every part'of a house, with great variety of bor
citrs to suit.
ALSO
A handsome affortrncmt of the mod fafl*iona6lc
Silver Grounds London and Paris Papers, and
very heft p'ain Green and plain Blue,
WithPunnel P-pers and a rich variety of Bdrders.
ilovemher r. eo6t
Young Hyson Tea.
40 chefls of a superior quality—Allio,
100 do.of Hyson,
Importei'.in the IVocdrop Sims, and for sale by
the fubferibtr, corner of Second and Pine
. street.
C. Ha'tght.
November 6. eotf
Imported inthefhipMANCHESTER,
Benjamin Shewell, Master,
1 From Bourdeaux, and for lale'oy the fubferiber,
No. 11 Walnut Street.
■ Bonrdeaux Brandy ")
' Irish market claret in cases ( Entitled to
[ Medoc wine, in do. f Drawback.
r Sauterne, do. do. J
' Thomas Murgatrsyd.
WHO H4S FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter CtJk#
Rota do. de.
Pimenso in bags
4000 bushels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stf.
'• To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not Itfort disposed of at private sale) ' -
i ( Friday, December' next, at fix
lt V_y o'clock ia the evening, Rt the Merchants' Cof
a fee House, in Philadelphia, Forty Thousand Nine
, Hundred and Thirty Nine acres of LAND,
uow or late io the County of Washington, and Com
-0 monweahh of Peijofylvania, and cn the waters of
Fresh and Wheeling Creeks and Ten Mile Run.—
Y* These Lands are fertile and well timbered, and were
lC patenteed early in 1787, except 3700 acres or therea
'7 bouts, which were patented in One tourtb
w of the purchase money t« be paid at the time of sale,
r- for a credit of one, two and three month*,
rd wiii be given, on inter«iVa»d good security.
O&ober 6. 3awtS
£ To be Sold at Public Vendue, ,
(If not before disposed of at private sale J
d, Friday, the firtt day of December, ar fx
rs o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Cnffee
ly House, in Philadelphia, Twenty Six Thousand Se
t', van Hundred and Eighty acres of LAND, in the
ne ' State of New.York, between th/ northern bounds
of Pcnnfylvar.ia and the Sufquehanna, now, or late,
in the townships of Hamdon and Warren, and cour
— ty of Montgomery One fourth of the p-rckai*
money is to be paid at the time of sale ; for the te
fiduc a credit of one, two, and three months will be
given, nn interefl and good security.
O&o&e 6. 3 aWt f^
Peale's Museum. •
rpHIS valuable repository of the works of Na
-- £_ ture, so well calculated t» delight the mind
and enlarge the undwflanding, is opened daily,
ufoa). It itands in an airy.and healthy iituatiou,
and free from the epidemic that at present afflias
tWe city; it may, therefore, be frequented with
the greatefrfafety.
As an Amuftmect, the study of Nature is the
most rational a»d plcailng : as a Science, the most
sublime and inflruflivc. It elevates the mind and
expands the heart. They
" A'dturc't tv/wii can charm,-.Bith Sad bimftlf
lit- u JJoIJ conirerfc."
—of Many icter-lUn<j additions have lately been
Bla de to this. MuU-um : and the feathered tribe,
1 a containing a variety of the most rare and beautiful
fub]e<Ss, is now very advantageously arranged,
t°f Waxen Figures, of Men large as life (some of them
ci " cads from nature) are here dressed in their propar
' habits, and placed in attitudes cbara&eri&ic of tkeir
j_ refpeaive nations. Here may be seen the Worth-
Ar.ierican Savage,and the Savage of South-Ameri
ca J laboring Chinese, and the Cliincfe Gentln
?'s raan —the sooty African, and the
with some Natives of the South Sea Islands. The
ill-, immense variety and interetHng diversity which
ail, this Museum offers to thevievi, may be seen l*t
the »nnnothe described with full efisil.
cu- I'rice only I-4th of a dollar.
;it- beyt. iB. . I"*
"Iff Davis's Law Book Store,
On No. 319, High-Street.
tic-
GEORGE DAVIS,
l', c T)EING busied for some time pafr in prepwi-
D tions for removing into his profent house, h^s
been under thenecelhty of pdftponirtguntil this day
informing the geiftlemen of the Bar generally thro
the United States, that his spring importation ol'
law books is now arranged and ready for iaie, on
termsthat he trusts will fntitlehim to thelike [K'
freence he has experienced for levcral years pad,
»g Catalogues, combining the most varied collet:
" r tion ever imported irto this country, are printsd
;a and will be delivered on application.
Ac Tune VJ.
ent —±~ , —;
Bofton Glass Manufactory.
r q->HE citizens of the United °tates are hereby
i,.,. X informed, that the ii'iar.ufaaure of \Vindow
. f is now commenced it the dial's House if! 80l-
It is needless to fay nny tiling of the excellent
qualitv of the Boston GUIs, as it is so well known
throughout the United States to be in every lvfpeft
5 ; .i-reatly superior to any ever imported fWm r nrope.
* "It will be cut to any size commonly uft-d ; and
iai,e may be constantly had by applying to Chari-es l".
Hot Kui'fiß, at. the Glass House.
1 Orders from the difiar.t States to be atldrellad to
Mr. Samuel Gore, Court-street, Boston.
Boston', .Rept 36,1797 O <—2awfw
• Tixoihy and j'Wafon, Charlfon ; M.ffru
t'le Tltdtr and , HjhJ.'.x, A r . C. JVlcJjrs. l< JUlt
r>i , anJO'Cmmr, Kor/M ; Mr. EOb Price, Altxmd,L-,
' AJe/Tn. Tnndt and firoivn, firdtimn? ; Mr. H<,j>ki«t,
A■Ji-j-tori j and A-Ir][rs. .Hwlfa GwJivin, flart
a. fmii • Mr. S j-xtmr, Savtmpi ; arc rraneM lo irfirt
n, tbi alcvcivci a xtteei & yrfefo. The ccitc i; J*r
£,t v/drftdttibe SJitcr-