% of the Unttet) f^tat Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1347.]
INFORMATION.
IF Ann Burns, who eame to Philadelphia frain
Bristol, in the ftip Fouii Friei«»s, captain Wad
dell, in Maylaft, will apply to J*(Te and Robert
Wain, (he will receive Yery agreeable and mtertft-
Jng information. dtf Dec. 31.
FOUND,
At the Daneing AfferoUy, last ThurfJay evening,
* 9 th inft. a GOLD BRACELET.—The owner may
have it by applying at this offiee
December 31 3
The Elephant,
.Now exhibited, was bought for Ten Thoiifand
Dollars,
He is 3 years old, 6 feet high, growing to 18 feet.
He cats 150 weight a-day, and drinks a barrel of
■water ; he his drink some days forty'bottles of porter,
drawing the corks with his trunk.
He is perfeilly inoffenfive; travels loole, at the
rate of five miles an hour, and is the greatest curiosity
ever brought to this Continent.
He is to be feert 'till the 15th of January, in
Market-street between Third and Fourth-streets, at
a quarter of a dollar, that every one may fee him—
after which time the former price of half a dollar will
be resumed.
' He will leave Philadelphia as soon as the weather
will permit.
December 3.1
WANTED,
A MECHANIC, to erect Spinning and Weaving
Machines by water, such as are used
tory—Apply to JAMES DAVENPORT,
y V No. 401, North Frorit-ftreet.
N. B. None need apply but a complete mechanic,
and a man of liability.
Globe Mill, December t<), 1796
THE SUBSCRIBER
WISHES to afeertain, whether a certain EDWARD
NEVILL, by trade a Stone-Cutter, or Brick-Layer,
who quitted Ireland in 1783, or 1784, and came into
this Country, ('tis fuppsfc-d to Philadelphia) about
four years since, be living or dead. As this intelli
gence i« of thehigheft importance, it will be thankful
lr received, by GEO. D.AV ,
No. 313, Hijih-ftreet
w & sim
December 31
Elegant Brussels k Tarkey Carpeting,
For sale by Qeorge Dobfon, No. 15, South 1 hird-ftrcet.
December 15. ,
FOR SALE,
f a ct"S ai^in S feh° oner ORION;
1" Seventy tons burthen J fifteen months
... her frame is of the belt of white
oak : ibe is & faithful built veflel, handforaely finifhed oft
and well found in every particular ; is ready to receive a
cargo on board, and can be put to sea without any cx
pence on her hull, fails or rigging : flic ftowg fix hundred
barrel* ; has a kandfome cabin and fteeragc, and a half
dcck which wiit stow from feventy-five to eigh.y barrels;
has been newty caulked, graved and painted. For terms
applT t0 BENJAMIN RHODES
At No. 170, corner of Mar&et ar»o riith-itreets,
Or to the Captain on board said/schooner at Melfrs.
Willis and Yardfley's wharf, adjoining Chefnut-ftreet
wharf; where there is for sale
Excellent pipkled Salmon in barrels,
thebeft of American Mess Beef, and some very excellent
Boston manufaitured Chocolate.
December a 6
For Sligo and Killibegs,
wjffiEobj The Atnerichn Ship IS an cr^
JSGaKKyL Cuthbert Riggs. master.
Will fail with all convenient speed. For
freight or paflage apply to
Who has for sale,
4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well aflbrted
3 Bales Irish Flannels, and i boxes Linent
15 Pipes Brandy
Madeira Wine; Indigo. Raffia Mitts.
few barrel? Prime IRISH BEEF, PORKj
OATMEAL, &c.
November n, 1796,
for Sale,
1 HE SHIP M ART,
SAMUEL PARKER, Master,
3Sfe2£3Two hundred tons burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MARY is not fold in a few days, Ihe will take
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
Otfober 31. ___ d
For Sale, or Charter,
The Ship DIANA,
oSjGgC. Samuel Pile, Master,'
Burthen a OS 47*95 < on » rc S ifter ' , hui,t
SSS^SSS?Philadelphia in the year I 79 J > ot Ilve °» k
tfTTTur and was fhesthed 13 njonths ago, Ihe
it a very triflisg expence.
For terms apply »o
Philip Ntcklm Ess Co.
. irho haw for sale <"> beard/aid vefel,
* 7 calks of fine yellow pamt.
• boxes and 12 bundles of writing Hates.
' box ink stands and note presses.
14 bales of fail canVaft.
And on handy
teas.
SsjtjLc"<,( .h. M irftr.
ig tub* QoickfilTer. .
c r
durovs, thicksets, Ginghams, Muflinets, Dimities, &c,
3 boxes black fewingfilk
jgo crates Qneens ware well afibrted.
lo tons sheet l?ad. . .
Nails assorted, flat andfcarp points.
London FarticnUr, } Madeira Wine-in pipes
London- Market, C and hoglheads.
New-York Market. •>
4 o pipes and iokogflseads-Tenenfe wine.
, 8 tierces SjtaVe Ro«t«
$30 '"g' Mahogany.
'V»v f.
William Bell;
Also,
mwftf
tthfcftf
MONDAT EVENING, JANUARY 2, 1797.
Philadelphia and Lancaster Turnpike
Road Company.
A Me»tirig of the Stockholders for the Ele&ion of
a Prefidwit, Managers, and other officers, will be
held at tke Company's office on Monday the 9th Jan.
naxt, at 10 o'clock.
By the Board.
WM. G OVITT, Se«'ry.
iawtiftj.dt9.h
December 8, 1796'
Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE.
No. 63 South Third ftreet,oppofite tjie national new Bank.
QAMUEL M and JOHN VAN REED,
J have entered into co-partnership, under the firm of
FROUNCES & VAN REED, in the bufinels of Brokers,
Conveyancers and Commiflion merchants. They buy and
fell on commiflion every species of flock, notes of hand,
bills of exehange, houses and lands, &c.
Monet procured on deposits, &c. &c. all kinds c'
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatnefsand
dispatch ; accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the
most corresft manner. Constant attendance will be given
They solicit a lhare of the public favor ; they are deter
mined to endeavour to deserve it.
N. B. The utmost secrecy observed.
S.4MUEL M. FRAUNCES,
JOHN VAN REED.
Phflad. AKgult 17, 1796- m&wtf
Lottery and Bro
No. 641 South Second stkeet.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. a, for file—a
Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
the late lottery.
Check Books kept for examination and registering, for
the City of Waldington, No. I, and Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—infermatiou what
tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Motel and Public School Lottery, for
examination.
The futafcriber solicits the application of the public
and his friends, who with to purchase or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
&c. or to obtain money on deposit of property
Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
fale*at Ten Dolkrs each, whiah will be drawn early in
the Spring.
Wm. Blackburn.
Phftadolphia, Augufl iB, 1796. mth
SALT. P E T R E.
A large quantity of Double-Refined Salt Petre for
sale at No. 15, South Third-fU'eet.
November 5.
ACA R D
If Monjirur G H. Souli, ■
Who left Bordeaux the 20th June last, and arrived
at Boston tbout the middle of August, in the schooner
Jane, it in Philadelphia, he is requested to call on
Joseph Anthony & Co, No. 5, Chefhut-flreet. who
will give him forat Uformation of importance. \
December 14, 1796- §
Fashionable Waistcoating.
GEORGE DOBSON, No. 45,
SOUTH THIRD-STREET,
Has received per the Diana, from London,
Clouded and striped Spanish Svvanfdown
Clouded ErminaU and Molelkkis
Striped do. and do.
Figured Manillas
Scarlet figured Erminets
Printed FlorineUs
Do. Caffinsts and Cafliraerei
Superfine printed Quillings. new-eft pa*terf»
Also, per different arrivals,
A large and general assortment of Dry-
Goods,
Suitable to the present and approaching season
November 5. dtf
FOR SALE,
About 1,600 acres of Land,
WELL Gtuated, laying on and bet'.veen Marth
and Beech Creeks, Mifflin county, Pennsylvania, in
famr separate Patents. For terms ot sale apply to
Wm, Blackburn,'
No. 64, South S^cond-flreet.
Oflober 31
FOR SALE,
At Whitefides' Tea Ware-House,
No. 99< North Second Street.
Imperial ~) C Hyson Skin,
Hyson, >• Fresh Teas. < Souchong,
Young Hyson, J C.Bohea
Dec, q
Insurance Company of the State of
Pennsylvania.
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, tha> an eleflion
for thirteen Diretflorn to serve for one year, will be held
at the Company's Office, on Monday th« 9th January next,
at IX o'clock.—And agre*ably to the act of incorporation
a fiatement of the affairs of the company, will then be
laid before them.
SAMUEL W. FISHER, 3ec'y-
Philadelphia, December 19, 1796. d t 9th Jan.
Imported from London & Liverpool,
EARTHEN .WARE, in crates and hogshead*, well
aborted
Wine Bottles in hampers
Window GU'fs of all fi/crs
Two cases of stationary
One chest of yellow Jeluits Bark
Two cases of R«U Arnctta 1
A fmaU consignment of Rose Blankets. Flannels,
Baizes, Broad-cloths, Coatings, Plain*, See.
Paints of various colors.
Basket fait in hoglheads.
Also on handy
Madeira wins, very qld, in pipes, hoglheads and
quarter calks
Holland gin in pipes, 'firft quality
Anchors of different sizes
A few trunks of ladies French Ihoe* aflorted
Silk nankeen,&c.
Ilikewife an assortment of Dutch goods, can filling of
Ofnaberf s, bed-ticks, stripes, checks.
Morlaix linen, platillas, ravens duck, Britannias, &c.
And for sale by the package only by
' . Thomas Ss 3 Zetland.
Vtal#u|-ftreet Wharf. ■
<otf
Nov. 15.
Imported in the late arrivih from Europe and the
Weft-Indies,
Holland Gin, in pipes
Choice St. Croix Sugar and Rum
Martinique Moiiflfcs, »• ho^flieads
Choice old Lilbon Wine, in pipes and quartef-calks
London Particular Sc London Market Madeira Wins,
in pipes, half-pipes and quarter-calks
Malmsey Madeira Win*, in pipes and quarter-calks
Teneriffe Wine, in pipes
Russia & Flemish Sheeting and Ravens Duak, in cases
Window Glass, 8 by 10, i* boxes
Coffee Milk and Straw Knives, in cases
Milk Saws and Cross-cut Saws, in boxes
jilfo, on hand,
A few chests of Bohea Tea ; Jesuits Bark 5 Aflafoa-
A few hogflieads of choice N. E. Rum,
a»d a quantity of LAKD, for sale;
Enquire at No. 71, North Water-street.
December 24 d ,w
Frejh Garden, Grass and Flower' Seed s,
Rootsj isfc. &c.
This day landing from the ftiip Eagle, captain Fofdick,
from London,
And FOR SALE by
ice,
:cr s
Corner of Walnut a*d Second-streets,
A mo/l capital and txtenfive Ajforlment of
GARDEN, GRASS and FLOW£R-SEEDS :
ROOTS, &c. &c.
Five
Four
Twenty-five
Six
Eleven
Twenty-fix
Six
Three
Five
mwftf
jtawjm,
tida and Tapioca ; and a few bates of Coffaes,
Baftae, Garrahs, Bandanna and Muslin Handker
chiefs, and a complete assortment of 5-4 and 6-4
Boulung Cloths.
Foi- Sale by
Pragers £3* Co.
dawm&tham
October jo
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE,
Among which arc,
Asparagus Three
Berecole Twelve
Beans Thirteen
Beets Fifteen
Brocoli Fifteen
Cabbage Six
Carret Four
Cauliflower Twenty-three
Celery Twenty-one
Cucumber
Common and emon Thyme
Curled leaf and sprigged Parsley
Pot Marygold Pot Marjoram
Balm Thyme Mangel Wurtzel
Leek Kail Shallots
Rape Seed Rye Grass Saint Foin Lucerne
Red and white Clover Timothy, &c. &c.
With a curioui colle&ion of the most esteemed
kinds
Ten
FLOWER-SEEDS and* ROO TS,
Being the moil extensive ever imported into this city.
The above are from a capital Seedsman in London, and
are warranted frelh and good.
Printed catalogues may be had by applying as above.
Dec. 17. dtf.
Just Landing,
At South fireel-whflrf, from lh hoard the /hip Sedg
leyj Captain Hodge, from Si. Peterjburg,
The following Goods :
Rullia Sail Duck, fiffi quality.
Do. Sheeting do.
Do. Diaper.
Do. Huckaback.
Do. Cralh.
Dq. Mould Candles, 4, 5 and 6 thsjlb. of the
English
Ho. Candle Tallow.
Do* Wfvite So;.p in small boxes.
Do. Cordage of fine yarn.
Racvens Duck.
lfinglafs, #ift aad fort.
Horse Hair uncurfod.
Rullia Bar Iron.
Do. Hoop Iron.
Do. Nail Rods.
10 Tons Oakum and Junk.
St. Peterftxirg Clean Hemp:
For Sale by
Philips, Cramond, & C©
5
Oflsber 11,
Old London particular Madeira IVim,
Landing from on board the barque Eagle, Capt. Bates,
and for file by ROBERT ANDREWS,
No. 86, South Wharve®.
eodtf
November 19
Cheap French China.
THE subscribers finding it impoflible to supply their
store with any more China from France, the prices
being too immoderate in the matiufafleries, give n»-
tice that they will fell at prime colt the remaining
fisek on hnnd, consisting of
Dessert Setts,
Tea-TaMe Setts
Separate Cups and Saucert
Groupies and Figures
Alabaster Vr.fes
Looking Gliffes, in gilt frames,
Betides India Japan'd Toilet Deiks, Chairs, Tailes
nad Quadrille Boxes. PASQUIER 3c Co.
No. 91, South Seeond-ftreet.
December 5 th.
For Sale,
By J. WARDER, PARKER C-
An Invoice of Cordage,
ConQiling of different fizee, ll'om 12 inch cables down
to rope of % inches, of different lengths: Imported in
the (hip Swift,, from Hull, and entitled to drawback.
Septl 17. dtf
NOTICE
Tbtofe Gentlemen who hold any of the undermen
tioned Notes or Draughts ('whether due or itetj arc
requested to meet at the City-Tavern oft Wednesday
liilT, at 6 o'clock in the evening ; at which time an
arrangement will be j;ropofed which it is expected will
be fatisfaflory to the holders.
Edward Fox's notes in favor of James Greenleaf.
James Greenleaf's notes in favor of Edward Fox.
J imes Greenleof's. draughts on Edward Fox.
Abraham Dubois's note to Edward Fox,
Edward Fox's note to Abraham Dubois.
■ JamM Greenleaf's draughts on Abraham Dubois.
At the reqiieji of a majtr fart of the Gentlemen
intertfiid.
December 29.'
NeW'England Rum, Salmon, Beef*
Chocolate, Rice, Boston mould and dipt Candles, a
few quarter-calks of Sherry Wine, a few barrels of
Cyder, ami a few quintals of excellent Tible COD
FISH—for sale by
December 14th, 1796.
Per schooner Daphne, Captain Morft, Jrsm Aum-
Cayes,
A Cargo of Sugar and Coffee.
AIJo, per brig Betsey, Captain White, from the IJle
J ' _
7 1 Hogflieads, i puncheon, and 15 canisters, m
Batavia Sugar
45 Hogsheads Pepper of Malabar
65,000 lb. Coffee
23 000 CottOD
4,000 Indigo- 11 For Sale by
F. Coppinger,
No. an, South Front-street
December »t
By the Subfcribers—ln PENN-STREET,
65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wioe,
Nov. 30
AT a Meeting of the Stockholders of the Bank of
Pennsylvania, at the Bank, December 29th, 1796,
It was unanimously resolved, That, from the informa
tion this day given by the Board of Directors, and cbe Do
cuments exhibited, the Stockholders do fully approve-the
condu<s of the DireAors; and that the thanks of th»
meeting be returned to the said Dire&ors for their activi
ty, zeal, and fuccefsful exertions in the discharge of their
duties in relation to the abuses lately pra&ifed upon this
Cresses
Onion
RadifU
Turnip
kind*
nftitution,
Peas
Re(blve4, That the foregoing Resolution bejpublifhed 1?
the Newspapers of this city
EDWARD SHIPPEN, Chairman.
BFNJAMIN CHEW, Jr. Secretary.
Dec. 30. $
Savoy
Parsnip
Melon
Lettuce
No. 25, South Third-street,
Has just reeeived, per Eagle, Capu Fofdick, via LoiP>
don, an aflortment of
Scarlet "J
- Drab / Cloaks trimmed with tur and
Purple and erftiinc.
Pftarl J
December 15. §
A few days ago, in the lower part of Second-ftreeS.
The owner, on calling at No. i»7 in laid street, and
proving it to be his or here by a description in writing 1 ,
may receive it on paying for this advertileraent.
Pet ember 29
LESLIE AND PRICE,
No. 79, Market-street, Pbimbeifhij,
HAVE IMPORTED, by the late arrivals frort»
London, » Urge afinrvment «f IVAR.RANTED
Jf'J'i CHE S, confiftiug of horizontal, capp'd and
jewel'd Gold Watches, with seconds, of ftiperier
workmanship and elegance ; also capp'd and jewel'd
and plain Gild Watches ; capp'd icjewdl'd, capp'd,
seconds, day of the month, and plain Silver Watches ;
eight day & chamber Clocks; elegant French Clocki
with marble frameß ; eight day and thirty hour, bract
works, &c.
Decembet 22, 1796
HIGH-STSEMT,
Has received by the late arrivalr,
A Well Selected Assortment of
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, anct
Haberdashery Goods,
Which he will fell, wholesale and retail, en the very
lowest terms ;
Amongjl which are
Some elegant 4-4 and 7-8 Chintses and Cottons, new
patterns *
Ditto Fnrniture ditto
Ditto Dimity
Tamboured, Book, and Jaconet Muflinrs
Ditto in Gold and Silver
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine
Mantuas of the ilrft quality
Silk and Cotton Hosiery
Umbrella* of the fir ft quality, aflorted
lrifti Linens, very fine, and Table Linens
Marfeillas afid Cotton Counterpanes
Rose Blankets alforted—-Ac. &c.
O&obtr a 6.
For Sale,
By George Difchamps, No. 91,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrefe
and half barreU
Ditto Herring and Mackarel. ,
Smoaked Harring in barrels and ke§»
Ditto Salmon, by the dozen or single one
Dry Codfifh, from one to fifty kentaU
Fine and coarse Salt
Nova-Scotia and French Plaster of Paris, in the ft one
and ground, for manure and stucco-work
December I. * 'stf
A BBUT T2 miles from this City, (ituate in Abingtoa
jLX. Township, Montgomery-County ; containing 70
acres, a new stone h6ufe,two stories high, a rooms ,on *
floor,fire places in each, a stone kitchen and flo«« jprii g
house, over an excellent spring of water, a barn, ttablc,
sheds, barracks, &c. A large apple-orchard, and a -variety
of other fruit, about 11 acres of good meadow well water
ed, and wood fufficieht for fire, and fencing the
PofTefiion may be brad the ift of April next. Property in
this City will be taken in flschange. Enquire at No. 37*
Arch-Street.
Fhiiadcl-phte, September 13, 179 6 -
EDWARD FOX.
dtw
Ezekiel Hall,
Nft. 4t, North Water-ftceet.
Just Arrived,
of France,
Sale,
For
Imported by the Eagle.
WILLINGS & FRANCK.
Bank of Pennsylvania.
Women's Cloaks,
GEORGE DOBSON,
A Gold Watch" was Found
Clocks and Watches.
Wm, Holdernesse, No. 76,
FOR SALE,
A PLANTATION,
[Volume XI.
w&r
dim
ttftfNiw 7 HEATH'S.
On MONDAY EVENING, January z,
Will be presented,
An HISTORICAL TRAGEDY, (Written by Shake
speare) called
Richard 111,
Htnry IV,
Prince Edward, '
Duke of York,
Duke of Gloftir,
Duke of Buckingham
Earl as Richmond,
Duks of NorfoUc,
IRatcliffe,
Catefby,
TrelTel,
Earl ef Oxford,
Lieut, of the Tovrer,
Ler-d Stanley,
Lord Mayor,
Tyrvel,
Quern Elizabeth,
Lady Ann-,
Duchess of York,
* End of the Tragedy,
v A StOtch Pantomimical Ballet, (compoftd by Mr.
Byrn) called,
The New-Year's Gift;
Or, Highland Frolicis.
Sandy,
Jamie,
Ypung Pedlar,
Father Gibby,
Mather Gibby,
Poggie,
Annie,
Highland Lads and Llffes—ntefirs. Doctor, J. Dar
ley, Mitchell, T. Warreil, Mi&iJoiuld, Morgan,
M. Poignand, n M. Lavancy—Mrs. Harvev, mrs-
Mechtler, mrs. Dodlor, miss Oldfield, miss Anderfon,
mile. Sjiphie, and miffL'Eifrange.
' To which will be added a FARCE called
Animal Magnetism.
/ Marquis De Lancey, Mr. Moreton
La Fleur, Mr. Harwcod
Doiftor, • Mr. Francis
Picard, Mr. M'Donald
Francois, Mr. fVarre!l t jun
Jeffery, Mr. Blifitt
Constance, Mrs. Harvey
Lifette, Mrs. Francis
Box, One Dollar twenty-firs cents. Pit one Dollar.
And Gallery, half a dollar.
£5" Tickets to be had at H. & P. Rice's tJook-ftore,
No. 50 High-street, and at the Office adjoining the
Theatre.
The Doors of the Theatre will open at 5, and the
Curtain rife precisely at 6 o'clock.
Ladies and Gentlemen are requested to fend their
servants to keep places a quartw before 5 o'clock, and
to order them, as fooa as*he comp ny are seated, te
withdraw, as they cannot on any account be permit
ted to remain.
College-Hall.
Readings and Recitations,
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining.
MR. F E-N N ELL
Refpeflfully informs the Public, that
On TUESDAY EVENING, January 3, at 7 o'clock,
Will be delivered,
(first part)
PREFATORY OBSERVATIONS}
Including feleiSlions from Dr. Young—on
T,ME,
Man,
Lite.
(second part)
THE EFFECTS OF< SORROW,
' Exemplified in
The "Diftreflfenjf a Daughter,
The Prisoner,
Mjiria, ift and 2nd parts,
The Beggar's Petition, '
(third part)
TBE EFFECTS OF VIRTUE,
f xemplified in
The Pi<ft»ire of a Good Man,
The Country Clergyman,
Doraeftic Happiness,
With Occafianal Remarks on the Authors.
Subferiptions are received by Mr.Zachariah Poulfon,
jun. at the Library, where the Ladies and Gentlemen
who may be inclined to honor the undertaking with
their patronage, are refpetffully requeued *0 fend
their names and receive their tickets.
Orcafional admission tickets to be had'of Mr, Poulfon,
Job. at the Library ; atmr. M'Elwec's looking-glWs-ftore,
No. 70, Sonth Fourth-llreet; and at Mr. Carey's, Book
ftUer, Market-street.
To be Rented,
A Large Vault and Cellar,
That •vrill eoptain »co pipes, fituatc in Walnut
between Fourth and Fifth-ftreets. Also. a COACH
HOUSE and"STABLE, with Stalls for five horses*
N. B. Goods Stored by the rifonth.
Enquire of Benjamin W. Morris.
November >30:
Danfcing.
MR. FRANCIS of the New-Tbeatre, in coajunAion
with Mr. BYRN, late Ballet-master, ami principal dan
cer of Covent-Garden Theatre, .London, now of the
New Theatre in this city, opened their Acadimy at Mr.
Oellers Hotel, on Tucfday, December ij, where th«y
propose to teach, in the most neW and approved methods,
Dancing in its various ufeful and ornamental branches.
Mr. Byrn's recent attention to the dances of Londgn
and Paris will enable him to complete this branch of
educat on in his fchoiars in the raoft finifned style.
Faverite Scotch reels will also engage their particular
attention. ~
The days of teaching for their young pupils are Thurf
days and Satur3ays, from three o'clpck in the afternoon
till fix—JJul on Tuelday s & Thurfdays,'from Cx ti!i nine,
for thofc of a more advanced age. I
For farther particulars enquire of Meffi-s. Francis !
and Bvrn, No. 70, north Eighth-flreet.
"** Private tuition as usual.
Fhiiaddphia, D*«embcr 16, 1796.
Mr. Warren
Miss I' Eft range
Master L* Eft range
Mr. Cooper
Mr. IVignell
Mr. Moreton
Mr. Francis
Mr, Morris
Mr. Darley, }un.
Mr. Fox
Mr. Jilijfett
Mr. Warftll, jun.
Mr. I'Eftrange
Mr. WarreH
Mr. Morgan
Mrs. Morris
Mrs. Francis
Mn. V EJlrange
"Mr. Byrn
Mr. W&rrel], jun.
Master Bates
Mr. Uli/fett
Mr. F> audi
" M ifs lAilhtufns
Mrs. Byrn
RESPUBLICA!
Sf'Keiwie
Sterne
Sterne
Dr. Percival
Goldsmith
Thorapibn
rawfn
•aw
SALEM, December 20.
COMMUNICATION.
" A f?w days since, Mr. James Burnes, a
native and inhabitant of this town, returned home
from the Weft-Indies, having fortunately escaped
from the Englilh. He was 'pressed by the Majestic
English ship of war, from on board the (hip Af
tfea ; of which he was 2d mate ; and was dragged
about from Island to Island, in the English fervicc
for more than 7- months. He was forced, by the
point of the sword, into several bloody battles, and
made to fight agairift the French, and because of
his unwillingness to a£l in tht English service, he
.fuffered from them the mod Ihock ng cruelties—
at one ti-ne he lay 19 days in irons, and would
have been ftai ved to death, had it not been lor the
assistance of a woman that ws on board the ship.
Once before he attempted to escape, in company
of another Amcncan, and fvvsm to a veflTel belong
ing to the United States; but the mailer would
not let them come on board ; and rctnrniig, his
companion was loft, he fuppofec! by a (hark. He
brings melancholy and most painful accounts of the
of the Americans, prefl'ed into the Eng
lish service ; and of their perijhittg by the cruelties
exercised upon them, by the sickness, and in battles,
and by attempting to escape from a bondage and
slavery more dreadful lhan the Iron Furnace of E
gypt. Mr. Btirnes has a family in this town, and
hasrirturntfi with the loss of all his little property,
and fiom his appearance, with the loss of a good
constitution, and of good health forever."
NEW-YORK, December 29
The unanimity of the electors, of Prcfidentand
Vice President, eastward of the Delaware, is a
striking fact. Notwithftandiog. all the calumny
vented against Mr. Adams, not one note cuuW be
withdrawn from that old patriot—not one vote
could be obtained l for Mr. J.-ffetfon. We finii a
division of opinions in the southern states. Seven
votes for Mr. Adams in Maryland are a proof of
a found attachment to the present adminiiiration.
Eves in Virginia and North Carolina, we And by
one vote in each, that men dare.to aft with firm
nefs in support of gsvernment.
The truth has ever been, that in proportion to
the prugrefssf knowledge, the people of America
have rallied round their government. The ge«d
work begins in 'he eaftetn states—there government
Jirfl obtains a majority, for there people more eaily
ant-', generally read and inform themfekes of fads.
A? k;iovvled»e progtefles among the more fcatteied
fcttlcmen;s of the middle and southern states, go
vernment collcdts strength. This has been uniform
ly the progress.
The parties in our country differ materially in
their opinion of Ae French and Engljlh. The
friends of onr present fyflem of administration with
to make many facrifices to both nations, rather
than become parties in the war. They wish to do
justice to both, but dread the power of wither. They
the intrigues of the French, more than their
resentment.
The oppofcrs of administration fee in the Biit
i(h, a nation of devils ; in the French, a race of
angels. They detest the former, and would em
brace any flight occalion ta quarrel with thsm—
They lev* the latter, and would bjsr kicking and
cuffing by them, for the fake of wearing a aock
ade or a red cap.
CONGRESS or the UNITED STATES.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Yuefday, December 27.
[continued.}
Mr. Harper acknowledged thaif"it was found
policy in government to keep a drift eye over its
treasury, but this watehfulnefs he said, ought not
to go to the rejection of all claims however just
and proper. He thought t::e teaacioufntfs of ap
proaching the treasury was carried too far in the
prefect iiiftance. He would ask what was the ufs
of society, if it were not to lessen the evils offuch
calamities as the present, by spreading them over
the whole community, instead of fufFcring them jo
fall upon she heads ofa few individuals ? He tho't
it the duty of government to alleviate such peculiar
distress as the present. It was said this would
!"prove a dangerous precedent, and prevent neceflai y
provifio.ns against fire. If they were about to make
good the whele of the 500,0001. deftroved, there
| might be some ground for the alarm, but when
] fifteen or twenty thousand dollars only were con.
I templated to be given, no great danger could sure
; ly be The fires at New-York, Bal
timore ;iid Charleston had been mentioned; but
j what were the means of Savannah when compared
j with New-York? Nat as one to twenty. New
| | York was rich enauah to bear her loss, but this
could not be faiq of Savanmh, all the inhabitants
of which were reduced to poverty and diftrefj
They ceuld not therefore get relief from their fel
low-citizens, and to whom could they look for pro
tection and relief with so much propriety as to the
general government > When compared to Charles
tofe, loss of Savannah was *as ten times tbtf
magnitude as that experienced by it. The lofspf
Charleston was alleviated by a fublription of thirty
thousand dollars fjom its own cjtixens, besides the
handsome contributions which were made in other
parts of the Union ; but thfie was no property left
in Geergia to afford relief to its fuffcrers. Suppul'e,
said Mr. H.- we were to give 30,000 dollars to
wards this loss, what would it be when divided a-
I mongftthe whole union i And yet it would be e
! nough to draw down countless blessings upon us
j from these objects of diflrefs. He hoped, there
| fore, the committee would not be discharged. 'It
was a cafe, not only founded in jufticc, he .'said,
but. appealed to the fineft feelings of the heart ; and
j a deeifion in't heir faveur wfculd be applauded by
every man, woman and child in the union.
Mr. W. Smith hoped, if the house refufed to
b? governed by motives of humanity, those of po
licy would have some weight with it; Savannah
was city, and if some afliftance war
net given to it, all the revenue which had hitherto
anion from thence, would be lyft.
Mr. Sitgreaves wished to know wlisilier it was
in order to move to reconlider the vote which hat 1
just been taken ?
The speaker said the present aueftian Biuft firft
be difpofej of.
The motion was then put for discharging the
committee of the whole, and loft, there being on
ly 30 in favor of it.
Mr. Sitgrcaves observed. that he voted with the
majority in thedecifion on the firft question which
had been taken ; of which he wi(hed to move a re
confederation. Very few qucftious he said, had oc
curred since he had been a member of that house »n
which he could not determine within hjmfelf how
to aift. On the present eccafion, he had however
fnffered a conflict between oppdlitc feelings. He
had doubts whether thejr had the right of appro
priating any money excrpt For the public frrvice of
the country ; at the fame time that he was convin
ced that if ever there was a claim on the humanity
of the public, Savannah at present exhibited that
claim ; and he mult own that his feelings had at
length, vanquilhed his doubts ; and though he o
riginally voted against taking up the measure, he
fliould now vote for it. He was not sure whether
he fhoulri not commit an error in doing this ; but
if it was an error, he hoped it was one which would
be forgiven.
The question was then Taken for going into a
committee of the whole on the ftibjeft, and carried
by a coivfiderable majority, there being 45 votes
for it.
The house accordingly resolved itfelf into a com
mittee of the whole, Mr. Muhlenberg in the chair,
when,
Mr. W. Smith said, he did not propose to fill
up the blank at that time. If the refolutiou was
agreed to, the sum could be put in when the bill
cartje into the house. He himfeif Should not think
of propoling to all the b!a:.k with more than fifteen
thaufaud dollar*. This, it was true, was but a
ftnall fuffl, but it would afford relief to the poorer
class of fufferers, and others could not espeft la
receive rhe amount of their losses. He should m >ve
that the committee might rife and report the reso
lution.
Mr. Hartley called for the reading of the aft
allowing relief to the fufferers by fire at St. Da
mingo. (It was read. It allowed 15,000 dollars
for their rslief, which film was to be charged to
the French republic, and if not allowed in fix
months, the relief was to be flopped after that
time.) / ,
Mr. Macon wilhsd the aft alloiviug a sum <jf
money to the daughters of count de Graffe to be
read also. He did not think either of them in
point. The fufferings of the people of Savannah,
he said, were doubtless very threat ; no one could
help feeling for them. But he wished gentlemen
to put their finger upon that part of the constitu
tion, which gave that body power to afford them
relitf. Many other towns had fuffered very confi.
derably by fire. He believed he knew one that
had fuffered more than Savannah, in proportion to
its fizc : he alluded to Lexington in Virginia, as
every house in the place was burnt. If the Unit,
ed States were to become underwriters to the whole
Ui;ion, where mud the line be drawn, when their
adiilaiice might be claimed? Was it when three
foiirths or fnur-Bfths of a town was destroyed, or
what other portion ? Ir furance-offices, he said,
were the proper fecuritieg agairift fire. If the go
vernment were ta cpme forward in one instance, it
must come forward in all, since every fufferer's claim
flood upon the fame footing. The sum which had
been given to the fufferers at Sr. Domingo was to
be charged to the French republic, and That given
to count de Graffc's daughters was in confideratisn
of their father's fervicts. '(The aft in favour of
count de Grade's daughters was read.J
Mr. Rutherford confidei'ed the obje& proposed
not merely as an aft of humanity, hut of commun
policy. Savannah, he said, was a city of a minor
hclpleft state, but being equally under the protec
tion of the general government wish the reft, and
having fufTered so dite a misfortune, it was entitled
to relief, it was the duty of the reprefenutives of
a tree people to afford that relief. . They were, he
said, a part of the gre<ft family of the and
when the individual dates were corning forward to
their relief, he trusted the gene>al government
would not be backward in affording its aid.
Mr. Hartley said, that the gentleman from N.
C. (Mr. Macon) had voted againfl both of the
bills which had been referred to. He knew no
difference between the cooltilulion of the United
States and that of Pcnnfylvawia, yet a vote in
their hoiife had been carried unanimously. He
thought the law for relief of the fufFcreis of St.
Domingo perfe&ly in point ; for, notwithstanding
what was said about negotiation, the diltrefl'ea of
these people had consumed all the money before
the fix months were expired., If ever there was a
cafe in which they could grant relief, this wis one.
Tife loft-i at New-York and Charleilon, he f»id,
would bear no comparif»n wi.h that of Savannah ;
they were rich and flourifhing places, whilst Savaii-
Rah was a small city of a new state, ami the fufFcr
ei« generally poor,. He hoped, therefore, the re
solution would be agreed to.
Mr. Moore said the laws which had been ad
dticed as precedents were not in point ; for the one
sum we were ta have credit with the French re
public, and the other was in consideration of past
fervicei. The distress of the people of Savannah
was not an obje& of legiflatidn ; every individual
citizen could, if he pleased, fhetv his individual
humanity by fubferibing to their relief j but it
was not cosftitutiqnal for thejp to afford relief from
the tre.• fury. If, however, the principle was a
dopted, it should be general. Every fufferer had'
an equal claim. Lexington in Virginia, contained
enly ioo houses, and all except two had been de
stroyed by fire. He should therefore move to add
Lexington to Savannah in the resolution before
them ; though he Would observe, as he did not ap
prove of the principle, he should vote againit them
both.
Mr.W.Saiith wished gentlemen not to endeavour
to defeat'tjie proportion before them by an amend
ment. He did not think there could be a compa
nion made between tfte distress occafioued by. a fire
in ft fault town and one ia a popuiow city. The
ds-'.lruilioii jf S .vantiah was -a great lofa in a natiori
al view, as it would caufca oonfidetable defalcation
in the revenue, and probably any muney they might
advaacc for the relief of the citizens, would be am
ply campenfated, by enabling the city the sooner
to rcftime its former impoitauce in the commercial
scale.
Mr. Venable did not fee the difference betwixt
the two cases which was so diltinguifhable to the
gentleman lalt up. . Because Savannah was a com
mercial eity, its distress, according to that gentle
man, was indifcribtble ; but whep a like fccn« was
exhibited in a small town, it was n» longer an ob»
jeil which touched his feelings. His humanity
went no where, but wheie commerce was to be
found. He asked, wither the United States
might .not as well lose revenue iu the firit instance,
as put money into the people's pockets to pay-it
with. Humanity was the lame every where, A
person who had loft his all in a village, felt the mis
fortune as heavily as he w a had a like loss in a
city, and perhaps more so, tince the citizen would
have a better opportunity, by means of commerce,
of retrieving his loss. He was against the general
principle, as he believed, if afled upon, u would
bring such claims upon the treasury as it vrs>uld not
be able to answer.
Mr. Murray thought the gentleman from Virgi.
nia (Mr. Venable) carried his iAea of relief toa
far. He had no idea, that that houfs, or any Le
giflatuie, could undertake iu maka individual
misfortunes. He was of opiuiwn, tkat the line*
which separated individual from national cases, were
very obserVable ; the one was happening every day,
the other felJom occurred. When a large town, laid
he, is burnt down, and that town is an important
fouthain frontier town, it is surely a national _a!a
tr.ity, and has a tlaim upon the liirsaariity of the
■country. It was not true, the claim was of (ych a na-
tore afr to* be brought into a court of justice, but
it was a calamity in wich the wiiole natioo fvmpa-
thife-
It was not only a claim upon the humani
y of the nation, but aifo upon its policy, as, b'y
reltoring it to its former filuation, it woulJ be able
to bear its wonted part in cootiibuting to the rei
vetsue ot the coun'ry, and would continue to < <irry
population, arts and wealth, to that dillant part a£
the union. In cafe of war, he laid, Savan nab
vas a most important place. It was necrflary the
union fhou'id have a -town in that lituation, and he
coiild consider any money which might now be
advanced as given away, but as Unt to that toyvin,
which would enable it in a few years, to refiime its
former situation, whilst the withholding it, might
prevent its ever riling from its present ruins.
Mr. Kitchell was opposed to the amendment,
and to the refolutiati itfelf. He had doubts if even
they were to give the citizens 15,000 dollars, at
was proposed by the gentleman from S. Carolina,
whether they (hould not, instead of femce, be do
ing them an injury ; becaafe, if the general gov
ernment were only to give this futn, the Hate legif.
laiurei would pioportion their donations accord
ingly, and probably give much lefsthari they would
otlierwife have done, if they had not had this ex
ample before them. He had no doubt with refpeft
to the unconttituti»nality of the bufi«efs: he believed
they had no right to give money for this ptirpofe,
BotwiiliftandiHg what had been laid on the fubjecl
—for the con (lit ut ion, he said. was like Sterne'*
text ; it was moulded tq any form, as it suited dif
ferent vipws. He~(hould therefore vote againft-the
two proportions.
Mr. Page faidhe was opposed to the amendment
though if the fufferers at Lexington had .Herd for
relief at the tt.ne, he ihould certainly h;ive" voted
for granting it. He was in favour of an applica
tion to the general government, in fach calami
tous cases, in preference to any pihet application,
and particularly 1.. preference to any aid.
Mr. Har ley hoped the amendment would not
prevail. If-the loss of the people at Lexington
had been greater than they could support, they
would doubilefs have applied to the legislature of
/irgima, but he had not heard of any such appli
cation having made. He agreed with the
g-entiemati lalt up, that the general government
ought to relieve diftrefies of this kind.
Mr. Murray enquired when the lire happened at
Lexington ?
Mr. Moore answered about nine mout!)9 ago-
He thought it was the duty of the United State*
lirit to pay the claims which were made upon them'
by diltiefled foldters aud others, for pa ft services,"
who were denied justice, because they bad paftd
an aft of limitation. If they weretoaft fromge
r.erofity, he said that generality ought to be exlen
ded univcrfally. It was a new doflrine, he faiu'
that because a fufterer by fire did not live in a com
mtrcial city, he was not equally entitled to relief
v*nh the inhabitants of a city, and that thoagh
fnch pcrfons wVre called Upon to contribute to the
losses of others, they could have no redr-fs for
their own. i his fjerned as if favourite fpotj were
to be felecled upon which special favour was to be
shewn. He was opposed to all such humanity.
Mr. Claiborne spoke in favour of the claims (>f
the unfortunate fufferers at Savannah, and if
could constitutionally be done, to go farther thdn
15,000 dollai*«.. He spoke ps the importance of
the place, and called it the Slaughter pin of the
war. •
[ Mr. Harper hoped the amendment would ie re. 1
jetted, for the fame reason that he h»jjtd all amend,
waits, which were brought forward with the fame
view with which it wa» produced, viz. to defeat
the original motion, be i eje&ed. He thought
every propefition (hould (land or fad upon its own
ground. • He wirtied that of his colleague to do so.
Mr. H. insisted upon the diffimiiarity of the tw»
cases, and that the diftinttion of great and fen all
calamity was fufficient to distinguish the two cases, i
With refpedi to the. conftitutiooality of affording
the relief in quettion, that had already bee'ri deter. •
mined by the fevtrzl instances which had been quo.
ted, which were also founded'upun humanity. The
prefont cafe, he said, jyight jtiftly be includedun
der the head of promoting the general welfare ef
the country. Gentlemen who the conftU
tutionality of the present proceeding, had done ihe
f«m« in the instances alluded to : but, ftoce their
doufets-had been so frequently overruled, he hoped
they fliould hear no rtore of them. With refpettto the policy of the mcufure—Sivannih, he saM,
was the only confiJerable port, except Charleston,
which the United Status had in that quarter. It
was fltuated at the in juth of a river which \water
ed a fpaceof country containing a thousand square
miles. The average revenue of this city was
76,000 dollars. Was not this, healked, anobjeft
of importance ? Was it sot an object to foller to
relieve the diftrefiis of such a place ? Many great
statesmen had employed themielvei in founding ci
ties, and fhvuld they not hold oHt a helping hand
to one in distress ? Peter the Great founded a city
upon a morals, and Louis the XlVth-attempted
to build one in the Englilh Channel. He trnfted
the American government w«uld have more wis
dom than to fee one of her's fink for want of a
little timely affilVance.
The question was put qn the amendment and ns
gatived, there being only 26 in favour of it.
Mr. Baldwin said, he hi(l dauhtedwhether to make
any obfervati«ns on this motion, not that he was infen
fibie to the calamitous Htoation which was the caufeof
it, but from an apprehenlion that it might be thb'the
vyas top strongly affected by it. Though it ipight be
disagreeable to one to give his judgment and to urge
his opinion* when his own relation to the question was
different from that of others, yet fome'of the reflec
tions might not be ufelels to those who were to deter*
mine it. He was sure it wrvs not a want of disposition
to relieve the unhappy fufferers, that had or would
draw forth an observation on this occalion, but merely
doubts as to the powers of the Federal government in
money matters. The use of a written conflitution,
afid of that provision in it, which declared that no
money should he drawn from the Treasury but under
appropriations made by law, was very manifeft from
the caution which it gave in the expenditure of public
money, and in laying burthens on the people ; yet he
believed it-impossible to obtain absolute dire&ions from
it in every cafe. The ohjtdlion is, that Congress is
empowered to raise money only to pay the debts and
to provide for the common defence, and the other
puipofes,-«xa<slly asfpecitied in thegth fefiion. The
•bjeilion has often been made, but many laws have
patted not exadtly fpecified in that feflion. He men
tioned the private a&s before alluded to, the laws for
eftaklifhing iight-houfes, to aid navigation in the im
provement of harbours, beacons, buovs and public
piers, eftablifhirig trade houses with the Indians, and
fpme ethers, to (hew that though ttye conflitution was
*ry ufeful in giving general diredliooc, yet it was not
capable of being administered under lit' rigorous aftd
mfrclianical conllrudlion, as had been fomctimes con
tended for. He begged leave to a(k and ,to urge the
question, whether there was no poflible accumulation
ef calamity and diltrefs, that might be brought upon
fopae part of the country, which would juftify the
Federal Government in granting some relief? No
doubt the afual prefTure of ppvate misfortune is reliev
ed by the poor laws and other ai£ls of the ftatc govern
ment j but, suppose a iiate belonging to this Union,
the greater part, or perhaps the whole, was fituited
•n an island, and that at once, by some of the great
causes which we know opeiatein Nature, by< tremen
dous convulsions and earthquakes, it was to be thrown
into such a situation as some parts of the world have
been, not only the whole property of the
survivors destroyed, but their place no long<4 habita
ble, would the Federal Government think they had no
powers even to grant them l'ome of their new land as a
pjace of refuge He was sensible he had put a cafe fa
Itrong that the scare mention almoil seemed improper,
and that the mind of no gentleman could follow him to
that extent. He only wifhedtoeftablifli the principle,
that there were porffible inilances in which it would be
the duty of the Federal Government to interpose relief.
Whether the present calamity was so great, and the
dillrels that p oper relief was scarcely to be
expelled trom the state where it had happened; was a
question which he mull leave to their determination.
He was sure thoy could not wait tor inducements from
the nature of the scene, er from their own disposition ;
he could not with to heighten the colouring in which
it flood before them.
£To be continued,]
For lhe Gazette of the United States.
Mr. Fenno,
INASMUCH as the government has been fre
quently reproached irf curtain newspapers for basely
fuhmitting to the vile treatment of a captain Jef
fup by captain Kigot, comma ding a British (hip
of war in the Weft Indies. 1 have made wha' en
(yfiiy I could into this business finfee 1 have been
in this city, (for I felt the indignity and reproach
becoming the charafler of an American) and 1
find, much to the honor of the British minister
here, that as soon as the account of ttau tranfac
tien was published in one of the newspapers, on
that authority alone, he made a repufentatinn of
the abuse to his government, who have readily pro
mised that juftiee (hall ee rendeted aft the fa&s
beirig substantiated. And further, by enquiiy at
the office ot state, if any statement or evidence
had been furnifhed by Capt. JcfTup or any perfun
in his behalf, by our government could found
a complaint for such villainous treatment (as Ciipt.
Jeflup I have no doubt received) I was infotmed
that they had heaid, that Capt. Jeffup has some
time since been at New-York, and that they had
been expecting to have received from him the ne
ceflary proof, but not a fyllahle from hitn or any
other perfurt had been received there on the fub
jeft. I will further add, it has been reported
(with what truth I will leave to every one to de
termine trom the circnmftai»ces) that a compromile
for some confederation had'taken place between the
two captains, and I confefs Capt. JefTup's silence
after receiving so feveie and at I presume outrage
ous chastisement, creates a flro/ig suspicion that
.something has hushed him. Under this view of
the oircumftances in this cafe, and I art! perfuadtd
in every other which is made the conflaiit theme of
abufmg our government by our dilorganizers for
tamely fuhmitting to British insolence, an invefti
jration would prove to be equally groundless if
not malicious. Would not such declaimers evidence
their attachment more to their country's honor and
interest if they were alike watchful in eliminating
the abuses we ate continually receiving frsm another
foreign nation ?
To undcccive the public I have made this com
munication, which by enquiry will be found to be
the TRUTH.
LADIES' CONCERT.
The fttbfcribers to - the Ladies' Concert are
fully informed, that the Concert is POSTPONED
'till' To-morrow Fortnight—Mrs. Grattan being so
indisposed with a cold at t« rcßder.it irapofiible {or her
to perform.
, January a.
Pli l LADELPHIA,
MONDAY EVENING, JANUARY i,
GENERAL ORDERS,
Philadelphia, Dec. 31ft, 1796.
The officers of the army are to refoeft the me
mory of the late Wayne, com
mander in chief of the troops of the Un'red States,
by wearing the ufnal mourning of black crape a
round the left arm, and the hilt of the sword, for
the term of thirty days after the receipt of this or
der.
JAMES WILKINSON, Brijj. Gen
Attest, 0
Campbell Smith, Lieut, and Brig. Maj
Extra& of a letter from Ma(fachnfetti.
" I live retired, as u'ua! ; but, iiotwiihftanding,
I hear N much of Adet's manifcftn. Ail accouunis
agree, that it opens the eyes of the people, and
provokes their resentment. lam confirmed in ray
expectation, that the measure will ultimately serve
the government."
BY THIS DAY's MAILS.
BOSTON, December 24.
NEWS FROM EUROPE.
Yesterday arrived the Snow Pacific Trader, cap
lain Barnes, from Liverpool, via Vinryaid, 51
days.
By this arrival we have received London papers
to Oiiober 26 : But they contain no intelligence
of moment. Ihe accounts us military operations
arc no later than thofd some time since received
fr«n» Paris : They arc however of 3, very different
call so different, that.it is ITT poflible to reconcile
them. she French army of the Lower Rhine,
under Gen. BournonviUe, remained between the
Sieg and Lahn ; while that und*r Gen. Moreau
Continued iu the vicinity of Buchau, ia Suabia,
though some accounts state, that his vanguard had
arrived at Strafturg.—The archduke Charles was
advancing by the Rhine towards Snabia, and the
Austrian divifiom in that circle formed a line 0/
polls from the Lakc«f Conllance, to the vicinity
of Fort du Kehl. The capture of Gen. Buona
pa'te is frequently mentioned in these papers ; but
without the lead authority. The profpeit of peace
does not appear to brighten. Lord Malftjmury bad
arrived at Paris, but there were no accounts of his
recc(.tion. The Biitifh parliament appear to con
template another campaign, by the votes of credit
they pass ; the provisions they have made for the
flip port of 195,177. men ; and the grant of
360,000!. lor the recruiting fervLe of 1797. The
number of Aultiiana in Mantua, is said to be
30,000, but many of them lick ; and Gen. Bu»n
aparte was di awing thivher all the reinforcements
he could muHer in Piedmont. The naval equip
ments in England were nut in the leall relaxed.
The fleet chafed by the Spaniards into Gibraliar, it
appears waß admiral Maun *», who loft fame traiif
ports.
Gravefend, Oft. 19. Pa.Ted by, the Nancy,
S'.one, trora America.
VcfTels a Bordeaux, C)A. 21. Britannia, Ball,
Boston ; Reeovt-ry, Ropes, Salem ; Sea Horse,
Gridley, Gloucelter j Leopard, Goodrich, Boston ;
Fanny, Smith, Salem ; George, Price, do. 'Hope,
Very, do. Rofaunub, Archer, do. Vulture, Bai.e,
do.
At Martinico, Nov. 12—Capt. Noble, of Portf
moutli ; Hammond, of lpfwich ; Low, of Haver
hill i Sally and Ecify, of New York ; Aurora,
Bartlett, Plymouth ; Capt. Kimhali, of Button,
arrived from France about the io;h November.
The capt. and crew of tft fchr. John Jay, of
thi,s port, which they were forced to defeit Nov. 6,
werefaved by capi. Barton, of the brig Camilla,
of Providcnce, who was atu-i.tively humane in his
care of them.
We are now te congratulate the citizens «f Ameri
ca, on the choice of his Excellency John Adams to the
distinguished office of Prtfident ot' the United Stales ;
an event which mu# give joy to every friend vo the
peace and pfofperity of our country.—His wisdom and
experience, his unfbaken republicanism, and ardent
love ot peaci;, order and good government, have made
him the iucccflor ©four beloved Washington ;
and will secure the retpedt and prolong the profperiiy
of our country.
In eight dates our worthy fellow-citizen John
Adams has had the unanimous fuffrages of the elec
tors. I his fa£t, in the eyes of the world, will out
weigh ten thousand obloquies which some have en
deavour dto cast oi. his principles. }n no state from
which intelligence has yet heea received, has Mr. Jef*
fcrfon received an unanimous vote.
jt is worthy of remark, fays a correspondent, that
the British papers, at no pei iod of the revolution, ever
teemed with more Iheer abuse of the adminißration of
the government of the United States, than the Jaco
bin papers do at this very moment. The ffteers of
tliemoft inveterate royjlift at Mr. Washington, one
Greene, &c. do not equal those now attempted to be
playedoff against the refpeftable personages whe have
filled, and now fill, the high departments of govern
ment. What must the world think of a government
which is thus traduced by citizens ?
It will be amusing to the public, to recur to the va
rious statements of thefaid to be expefled votes of elec
tors of President and Vice-President ; especially those
in Philadelphia.
Yarmouth, Dec. 19.
This morning, at Bafj.river, was coufumedby fire,
the whole of a large fWe, together with all the proper
ty it contained, amouatingin the whole to l£,oco dol
lars, consisting of cash, dry goods, grain, &<■. the pro
perty of Sylvanus Crowell and David Killey. All
the (hipping.at the wharves would nwft undoubtedly
have hces confumeci, but for the extraordinary exer
tions of Mefl'rs. Kdly and, Buncker, who both got
badly wounded, but it ii hoped net mortally. What
makes the loss the more lamented, is that the fufferers
were gentlemen, who did sot keep their interest in a
napkin, but let ii have circulation, to employ the poor
in labor, to get their daily bread.
NEW-YORK, December 30.
We learn, that the vessels which have ar.ived
these few days past, jive accounts that many veflels
arc on the coast, endeavouring to make ports, but
driven off by contrary winds, force of them in real
distress for want of provilioui or water, »nd the
people's Ifmbs frozen. Is it not poffihle for the ci
tizens to iend out vtffels for tlie relief of such as
are near this port ?—[Minerva.~^
December 31.
Tt Majlers 6f Vffils, Mates, and Seamen in ge
' nerat.
"1 he Underwriters of the City of New-Yotk,
having received eredible information, that a great
number of veflels are iq great distress on the coali,
have provided the brig Dean, Joftiua Sanfard, maf
ttr, to immediaie affiftanct to the fufferers,
and do hereby invite the Masters, Mates, and Sea
men to embark in so laudable an enterprize
1 hose who are dilpofed to undertake the catfe'of
humanity, will please to give in their names at the
counting room of Ebenezer Stevens, who is au
thorised to make arrangements for their cofopenfa
tioa. Dec. 3 1.
Extract of a letter from Soften, dated December
22, 1796.
" Within a day or two past, it has been discov
ered, thar there are a great many forged 50 and £
dollar bihs of the United States bank, in circula
tion. I hey are exceedingly well executed. This
is witte# to caution you ag»ir>|t remitting me any
of either of those denominations, as you cannot
pass them here at any rate."
New-Yorlc, Dec. 31.
ARRIVED. Days.
Ship Patty, Kcnney, Aux Cayes 58
Sch'r Hope, Parson, St. Croix 28
CO MM t!NICA TIONS.
Tlie frying ef a noted prime minister, that every
man has bis price, fccnil to be denionftrated at to the
Democrats: for at the very moment u hen some of
them are b wling A mtricaw hoimr and independence,
five thousand French crowns a-yearare found powerful
opiates.
Atiet b insults, treating nur country like Poland,
and the threats of ari American, Frenchified by his
commiffiohj in our very ports, are blisters to ii dead
man. Mr. Bache's pstriotifm is more excellent than
Job's patience— tor Job had faith with it. What
mutt the liith of the partizans of the Aurora be, if
their own principles should prevail > Not that Ameri.
ca would eHj»y Independence, but that (and tnis is
supposition sjainft analogy and experience J we ihonld
he Inbjeft to kind matters. The Democrats have cho
sen their matters aßd arc faithful to them. We chuft
FOUR MILLIONS.
to be free,
Mr. Fesno,
SOME of the wife-acres of Baltimor® have
thought proper to compliment a mail, who has
puilicly announced, Thai he hat orders from the
French Diredr.ry to dcfiroy even the trade of their
city—and who is an avowed agent in promoting
measures unfriendly tw the peace and independence of
his country—Do these eomplimenters know, that
Ihould captain Barney seize the property of citi
zens of the United States on the high seas, in fnl.
lowing a tuulc authorized by treaty with France,
and fend their veffela into French ports for adjudi
cation, andAould eve r return to this country ; he
may Pnaie the fate at lalt of the English admiral
who seized the property of English fhipi at St.
Eulla tia, during the war between the United
States and Great-Britain.
DoesCapt. 0 think that he can takeoff and put
an as intertj or uif rice may dictate—the char aider
of > American citizen f
It is fnid that fume influential characters is Bal
timore have hinted at rhe propriety of the citizens
joining generally is an address to the intrepid cap
tain Barney, has orders to take our vessels)
for the imporidiit feivices which he has informed
them he propafej to render to his country'. Thfc.
following will probably be the patriotic address—
SIK,
We the merchants, ship builders, t-ope makers
and «thers concerned irrthe trade and prosperity of
Baltimore and the flare of Maryland rejoice to fee
you again in yowr native country, and to hear from
yaurown m»uto that ycu ate {a truly patriotic as
to have engaged to the French Dircftory, to take
»us vrjeis in cal'e the plan of France in our choice
of a Prelident aitd in our going to war for them,
should not fuccerd.
We lament exceedingly as we ought, that a ma
jority of the people have been so perverse as to
have declined the opportunity that has been ju(t
afforded them ol following the counsels of the
French £>ire&ory, your present matter, and that
neither the fraternal doings of a Genet,, the half
tempting lures of the cunfeffor, the Pere Fauchet,
nor he sublime declamations of an Adet, with
their American co adjutors, have made tjiem sensi
ble that to be fuhmiflive to the mandates of onr
fitter Republic is the only way to secure
the affeitions an-1 friendfhip of the terrible nation.
# _
Some years ago, "petfons wko thought the opinio
083 refpeit4ii,r I'rance fanatical and nonsensical in
the exi rente, were disposed to take ground boldly
ajjainfl papular folly and absurdity. What will
newspaper fp«cn!aiians (ignify, said their opponents.
Speeches in Congress are lott—ftraws make no
dams against torrents and fre(he(s. The flood wa
ter mult tun off. All pafltans may be attacked
frith success in their ebb, none in their strength.
Fa£k has vctified the troth of the hypothecs.
At lad the cuui.iiy has thrown off the magic pow
er of enthuliafm and infatuation.
The cause iif Liberty and Rtpulticanifm.
These words, »ho' addrefled to the undemanding
fofpetided it's powers. The fever and delirium las
ted till we Can wake and fee how the fa& has tam
ed out.
The fact is—pretended republicanism acknow
ledges the king of Spain ? Nay, worse—it acknow
ledges the king of Spain not a ivhit the worfc for
being a king. (See the late curious Slate paper
in the United States Gazette) The king of Prus
sia is a king Slfo—the German princes save their
bacon and their titles and cadi. Poor Democrats,
your notions are foiever plausible and forever wiong.
f ranee so far from driving Europe ihrfeiigla the re
volutionary mill, i- Hops grinding to save Piufiia,
Spain, &c. Ike. See. Democrats, experience is a
folaer leather, if you are not taught that rej,ubii
» 1 fm, liberty, rights of man, and forty ot?ier cuH
throat wortfs, have nothing to dS with France,
are incorrigible. Expetieuce has birch in her fchoui
'»nd you smart for nothing
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
I A new method of keeping Bill Books,
Adapted for the eaf? and convenience of merchants
in general ; but particularly for tbofe who* are ex
tenlively concerned in trade: exhibiting at one
view, all the bills which a merchant ihay have tj
receive or pay, in the cotirfe of tlie whole year,
for each month feparatively. And thereby pre
venting the trouble and ineonvenience attendant urt
the mode now in use, of ftle&injr the bills due in
each month from the prjomifcuous entries of fcvcral
raanths.
To which is prefixed,^
A tabic (hewing she number of days from any day
of any month, so the fame day in any other month.
Philadelphia, printed for and fold by R. CAMP
BELL &
January 2
Bank of North-America,
January 2, ] 797.
At i meeting of the Diruflftrs this day, a Dividend ot
Six per Cent, was declared for the last half year, which
will be paid to the Stockholder# or their representatives,
at any time after the 10th inilant.
By order of the Board.
JOHN NIXON, President
l3ank of the United
January 2nd, 1797-
The niredors have thi» day declared a Dividend of
Sixteen Dollars on each Share for the last fix
which will be paid to the Stockholders after the I»ti»
infant. G. SIMPSON, Cafllier.
OLD THEATRE.
Cedar-Street.
TO-MORROW EVENING, Tuesday, January 3>*797i
Signior AL GO N I
Will continue his Philosophical Performances, when, by
particular desire, will be exhibited, the so much adi
mired experiment, |which was performed the lafi nighty
viz. The DOVE.
The periornaer will request any person to write any ques
tion they pleafc on paper, who will be at liberty to put it
into a loaded pistol, and dilchafge out of the Theatre i
the exhibitor will neither le nor touch the paper; and t®
the ailoniihment of the fpe<slators, the dove will instantly
appear with an answer in hi* bill.
Sig. FALCON!, being ambitious to contribute as muck
a« is in his power to the amusement of the generous citi
zent, takes thi* opportunity of improving his perform*
ance, by the lively reprelentation of
An Engagement between t\vo Frigates,
Or, A SEA FIGHT
This exhibition, in {hades, will undoubtedly be vary
intereftiitg to the fpe&ators. They will be able to di£-
tinguifh the manoeuvring of the* two of the guns as
they are firing, with the concomitant noise ; the rigging;
and fails made ragged by the ihot; the continuation ol
the battle, with the One lofingher waia-topjrhaft, 4'tc roar
ing of the sea, and the smoke of the guns; the view of
the boats, and wounded men on the furfaceof the watei*
will give to any person who has not seen oti?, a perTtft
idea of a lea-fight; while the oonclufion of it, together
with the ingenuity of the performance, wiil be highly*
pleasing to eveiry American.
With several othei £xperimtnts, and Scenery, ¥ety en*
tertaining.
To conclude with tl e celebrated DANCING MAS
TER. To begin presifety stharf pafl fix
Tickets to bo had at Mr. Xwrtil's, nest door to the
Theatre.
N. B. Box three quarters of a dollar, Pit half a dol
lar, Gallery one '[tarter of a dolla:.
y 0 R S A L li,
A very Valuable Eltate,
CALLED <T WirTK NH A situate in "1-c
tovvfthip of Upper Derby, and county of
7 1-1 inilc« from Phiiad lphia, and half , a miie from the
new Western road: containing ajo a«-es of excellent land*
45 of which are good watered meadow, 90 of prime wood
land, and the rell arable of the/ firft quality. There are
en thepremifesagood two flory brick house, with 4 rooms
on a floor, arid ccllJrs under the whole, with a puma-well
of excellent water in front; a large* frame bar«,WbleS>
and other convenient buildings; a I'mOke-houfe and (tone,
spring-house ; two good apple orchards, and one of pcaclw.
es. The fields are all in clover, except those
under tillage, and are lo laid out as to have the advantage
of water in eath of them, which readers it peculiarly con*
venjent for grazing.
Th« situation is pleasant arid healthy, and from the high
cultivation of the laud, the good neighbourhood, and tha
vicinity to the city, it is very iuitable for a gentleman'*
country feat.
The foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Harnian,
deceafad, and offered for sale by
OA* 31.
law
Notice.
THE Advertifcris a person reg-ularly bred, »nd has
carried on in an extensive manner for thefejovear*
paft,the various branches of Goldsmiths' and Jew
ellery, plated and hard-ware Ctltlery, and Ironmonge
ry bufinef*, a»d has general knowledjfe of the Dry
Good and many other businesses. He has a particular
taste for building, has built e.ttenfively for himfelf,
has conduced buildings for others, aid is of opinion
that his services to any gentleman that might be in
went of a person to conduift any of the'aforefaid buli
ftefles, would not onlj be ufeful but *n acquisition, a»
lie will engage on libeial terms, either as a falefrhan
or to fell on commission as an agent, adl as a partner or
take the care of a manufactory, or superintend build
ing, &c. He 19 a married man, and having nofamily
but his wife who would a«ft as a saleswoman or houte
keeper. No objection to any part of the Souther*
rates, or to take a voyage to Europe as a ftipercargo.
A line dkeC%d to Jj C. to the care of the printer,
will be punctually attended to.
N. B. He i» well acquainted with most of the Eng
lifli, Irish, and Snotch raanufa<Stori£s, as he carried on
buitiefi for ten years in London, but on account of
unavoidable misfortunes in his country, he is now for
ced to seek for a living for himfelf and wife in this
way, and he flatrers himfelf lhat he will give entire
fiti«fa£lion to his employer. And as he is well know a,
in this city, and to the most refpeflablfc charaAer* ou
the continent, doubts not but his charaAer, morality
and indefatigable industry, will bear the ftrideft en
quiry
Dec. 28.
Any Person
Who it well acquainted -with the Rive?
MISSIS I P P I,
/ And will give Dire<ftior»s for failing into the fareey
that can be depended on, (hall be genaroufly reward
ed for his information, provided he will leave th<f
directions with Mr. John Fenno, printer, Piiil*Ji!j.l,w,
or Edmund M. fihiat, Newburyport,
tawtf
tates,
Mordecai Lewis,
Surviving Executor
law tfrritory of the United States, N. IV. of the Ok'f
Tbxnek -)
C Foreign attachment.
P.H IKK*. J
r.
Notice is hereby given,
To JOSEPH PARKER, late ot fUfkifkia in the (now)
{cii>ity of Randolph, ip the TeTfitory aforefaid, Mer
chant, that in pursuance of the laws of the 1 erritory in
that caf« provided, a foreign attachment hath issued out of
the county court of common plea* of the said county,
against the lands and teneir ents, goods, chattels and ef
fects, rights and credits of the said joseph Parker, at the
flit of <Jeorge Turner, Esquire; and that unless the said
Joseph Parker appear by himfclf, or Attorney, to give
special bail to such suit, judgment by default will be en
tered sgaimft him, at the court to be held in and for the
said county, next, after the expiration of twelve months
from this date ; and the estate or estates so attached, will
be fold for the fatitfa<ftion of all creditors, who shall ap
peitr to be jullly intitled to a demand thereon, and shall
apply for that purpofc. Dated at Kaflcafkia, aforefaid,
this twenty-ninth of March, 1796.
JOHN RICE JONES, Attorney for Plaintiff.
CAUTION.
WHEREAS very large and heavy debts are juftfy
#lue, and owing from messrs. Blair M'Clenachan and
Patrick Maore, of the city of Philadelphia, merchants,
tradiae under the firm of Blair M'Slenaeban and P.
■Moore, and from Blair M'Clenachan in his separate
capacity ; to which, by the laws of the land, all the
joint as well as separate property of the said Gentle
men, is, and ought to.be, liable. And whereas
it it clearly and tatisfa&orily ascertained, thai mr.
Blair M'Clenachan, of the {aid firm, has conveyed
away to mr. John H. Hujlon, his son-in-law, to his j
daughter, miss M'Clenachan, and to his fen, George
M'Clenachan, several large and valuable real estates,
as well at considerable perfocal property, in the eity
and county of Philadelphia, in the county of Lancaf
tef, i* the countv of New-Castle on Delaware, and
clfewhere, with a" view, as it is apprehended, to de
feat the Creditors in the recovery of their just debts. —
This is, therefore, to forewarn all peffons whomfo
«ver, against the purchase from the said grantees, or
either ef them, of any portion of the said real or per
ianal property, as the molt vigorous measures will
withsut delay be taken te render the fame liable to
the jvfit demands of the Creditors.
By order of the Creditors.
Thomas Fitzjimons, "J
PbHip Nickl 'm, I •
Isaac Vharton, f Committee.
William M'Murtrie, 1
Samuel W.PiJber, J
Philadelphia, December 17th, 1796. aeth.J
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE caution introduced into the public prints,
warning all petfons agaiafl purrhafwg from the
grantee* of Blair M'Clenachaii, any portion of the
large, real and personal estates he conveyed away to
his foil-in law and to hi* children was the result of
a deliberation had upon the fubjeift by a general and
numerous meeting of the creditors as well of Blair
M'Cleoachan and P Moore as 01 Blair M'Clsna
chan individually. It was no more than an execu
tion of that trust confidod in the fubferibers by
thofc creditors : a step which it would have been a
breach of dnty and honor in them to have omitterl.
The very ftalement of the fact therefore mart dis
pel the imputation that it was either " precipitate
or vindiflive." it originated in a desire to secure
the property of the debtor as a fund for the pay
went of his just debts. It was fan&ioned by the
adviee of council as a measure nccejary to the falety
of the creditors. If the advertilcment has been
injurious to Mr. M'Clenachan he owes that injury
to his own unjuftiliable conduct, not to the lub
fciibers who have merely publilhed the truth iB
terms as mild as the {*& would admit, and who
Siean ro invefligate in a high court of justice the
■validity of thole purchases of whieh Mr. M'Cle
aachan so confidently speaks.
The fobfcnbers therefore are bound by a sense
if duty to the erediiors in general to repeat their
laittion against purehafing of those grantees or
cither of them, and to extend the terms of it ta a
purchase from, any other perfous (;f fueli there be)
to whom Mr. M'Clenachan may have made similar
coaveyances.
T. FITZSIMONS,
P. NICKLIN,
ISAAC WHARTON,
WILLIAM M'MURTRIE,
SAMUEL W. FISHER.
Philad. Dee. 21, 1796.
' (Signed)
(p?T TViofe printers who have been requested to
publilh the firll Caution, are desired to publish thi»
*lfo-
, s W A N N'S
Riding School, Horse Academy & Infirmary.
Adioining the Public Square, Market Street. _ (
T. SWANN
RETURNS his ("metre thanlfs to thole gentlemen by whom
Ue has been employed, during his refiderice in this City, and
flatters himfelf that the foccefs ot his efforts, in the numerous,
obstinate and dangerous diseases in Hortes, in which he has
ieen conlulted, togetner with his moderate charges, will le-
Bre their future favors and recemmendation.
He now begs leave to inform Ibem and the public at large
that his spacious and commodious premises, erefited for the
purposes above described are open fbrthe reception of pupils
of either lex, who wilh 10 beinftwifted in the Art of Riding,
an& the tight method of governing their horses, so as to ride
them with ease, elegance, and lately—their horses will be
carefully and rxpeditiouHy broke, for every purpose, and
made obedient to the will ot the riders ; the natural powers
which, are fliut up in them, will be unfolded by art, calling
forthlmitormity ot motion, and giving y that noble animal
■ aH those beauties of atlion which ptovidence has so boifnn-
fully bellowed on them.
Also, at his taofpital, every difor er to which the horse is
liable wil! be treattd according to the rulei ol art, confirmed
by long and repeated experience.
The utility of the above inftiiution has never bc«i qnedion
ed, that it has long been wanted in this city, every gemteman's
stud willmaniftft, and T. Stvann as the fifft eftabHQier ot
the veterenary art/* iolicits a*d relics upon the fuppoit of thar
public (which he is ever anxious in to enable him to
b'ingit to perfection. The idta ot a iublcription for idiat
parpofe has beeu hinted by fevertil gentleman, who wifli to
promote the !nftitution - the amount of each fubfeription to
be returned by service« in any of the departments he profefles,
agreeable to the rate of charges stated in his hand bill. Such
fobfeription is now open, and the fignaturcs of many refpc6l
ablc gentlemen already obtained. He therefore injOrms his
friendk and such Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has rot
the honor of being known, that he (hall i« a few days take
the liberty of waiting upon them and folictiiug their support
and protc&kni.
N- B. Horfe# are properjy prepared for those Ladies and
Gentlcmbnwho wi(hto b« initructeci. J
Nov. 5.
Bank of North America.
THE STOCKHOLDERS are hereby notified that an
#l«aion for twelve Direaors for the ensuing year will be
'held at the Bank on Monday the 9th of January at ten
o'clock.
) RICHARD WELLS, Cafliier.
Pec. «.
Washington Canal Lottery,
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorised
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix. thousand,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Wa(hington, frosi th o
tomacto theEaftern Branch Haruour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz 'I Prize of 20,000 dollars, 30,©00
I ditto 10,000
7 laa drawn •>
Tickets, each y
6 ditto
10 ditto
ao ditto
55 ditto
575° ditto
To be
5850 Prizes,
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, atTenDollars, -
45" The Cemmiffioners hava takep the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid a& lor the punctual payment ol
the prizes.
The drawing of tlm Lottery wilt-commence, without
delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after the
drawing is finiflied, fha.ll be considered as relinquilhed for
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed ) NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, q/D.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEOKGE WALKER,
Crty of Wa(hir|
FOR railing fix thoafand fix hundred and sixty-seven
dollars and fifty cents, by a deduction of fifteen per
centfromthe prizes, and not two blanks to aprizs. viz
I Prize of 5000 dollars is dollars 5000
r 1000 1000
1 500 s eo
5 aoo i° CG
20 100 1000
99 5° *W°
100 *S ' s°°°
4000 IO »0,000
5 Last draw-n numbors of 1000 dollars each, 5000
. ' 7
1331 Prizes.
4018 BUnl*»
635 0 Tickets at Seven Dollars each.
By order of the Directors of the Society for ellablilh
,ig Ufeful Manufactures, the fuperint-endants of the Pat
erfon Lottery have requested the Managers to offer the
foregoing S»heme to the public, and have directed them
to refund the money to persons who have purchased
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
n this Lottery.
The lottery hasa&uallyeommenced drawing, and will
continue until finifhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
may be seen at thr office ol Wiiliam Blackburn, No. 64
south Second street, who will give information where tick
ets may be procured.
Dated this 17th day of June, 1796;
J. N GUMMING, 7
JACOB R. HARDENBERG, > Managers.
JONATHAN RHEA, • J
STATE OF THE WHEEL.
I Pri?c of 5000
1 1000
I JOO
5 aoo
10 ioct - ' " - aooo
90 jo ... 4500
16s *5 * " 412 -5
The five lift drawn ticket#, 1000 e«ch, jooo
Beinp all the valuable prizes, besides a full propor
tion oi the 10 doljari.
As the Lottery is considerably more than one third
drawn, the value of the undrawn tickets is great
ly increased, and it is worth the notice of tjiofe
who hold tickets in the old scheme, that they can ex*-
change ttoeir tfckets for tho!e in the above, if thef ap
ly soon, and at a moderate advance sonfidering the
now real value of an undrawn tick;t.
The tickets being nearly all fold, the drawing in
future will be oftener, and the Lottery soon finifhed.
November iz. mws
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, N». 64,
South Second-Jlrtet.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
for railing Sixty Thousand Dollars, agreeably l® an AQ of
the Legislature of Pennfylvaaia, passed during the lad
feflion, for building a Stone Bridge over the Rivet
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, in the County of
Berks. ' Dollars.
i Priae of 20,000 Dollar*
1 do. of iQjOoo do. • - 10,000
3 do. of 5,000 do. - • 15*000
4 do. of 2,000 do. • - B,coo
so do. of 1,000 do. - 20,000
39 do, of 500 do. - - *9>5 ofe
80 do. of 200 do. - • - t6,0c0
soo do. of 100 do. - ~ • - 20,000
300 do. of 50 do. - - i£j® oc ?
1 do< of s©o do. to be paid the posses- )
for of the firft drawn 110. >
c do. of 3, ©00 do. to be piaid poffeflbrs ) Q0
of the five last drawn nos 5
15 do,
9,400 do. o
30,00© Tickets at Ten Dollar® 3©®,0«0
All PrUes (hall be paid fifteen days after the drawing is
finiihed, upon tl»e d«mand of a poffeflor of a fortunate
ticket, fub)e& to a dedufiion of twenty per cent. The
Drawing will commence as soon as the Tickets are difpofea
of, or perhaps sooner. of which public notice will be given.
Philip Miller, Peter Kerjbner, William Oilman,
Joseph Hiejler, James Diemer, Thomas Dundas,
James May, John Otto, John Keim, Daniel Graejf\
Sehajtian Miller, Commissionbrs.
Reading, May the 9th, 1796
Tickets in the £anal Lottery, No. I, to be had at the
above office, where the earliest. information of the draw
ing of the Washington No. a, and Patterfon Lottery's,
are receifcd, and chetk books for examination and regif
ten; ,; arc kept.
tth&f.
•Qftober 7.
NO. I
1,000
400
100
50
12
•aifed Cor th« Caaal,
Wm. m.duncanson,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY,
[ion, Fel>. 11.
Paterlon Lottery.
By Authority.
10,054' Prizes
10,046 Blanks
Horses taken In,
For the Winter Season,
And fed on clover hay at the Subscribers place, 11
iriles on the Bristol Road, where good stabling is pro
vided, and great care will be taken of them
William Bell.
NOV.
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM M'DOtTGALL will open his school on Mon
day the 31ft inft. at ten o'clock in the morning, at his
Elegant hew Ball Rooms,
In Fourth, between Chefnut and Walnut Streets.
Hours oi tuition for young ladies, from 10 to i o cjoek
on Mondays, Wednesday, and Friday mornings; and for
young gentlemen frpm 6 to 9 o'clock on the eveniags ®
the fame days..
In Addition to a number of new cotillioas, he means t>o
introduce a variety of Scotch Reels.
Note. Th.* firft ball to be on Tuesday e
vening, the firft of November, and to be continued every
Tuesday, durmg fc .he season.
For terms, ice, enquire at his house, N*.134» Market-
10,000
3 j i°°°
6,000
4,000
2 poo
1,750
69,008
26,15®
street,
Oil. 17
A Manufadtory FOR SALE.
175,000
A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE MBnufaflory, fixate
in a convenient part of the city ; the works almost
on an entirely original conftru&ion, and built of the b-elt
material*, and may be set to work immediately. Persons
whowilh'to purchase, a«e requeued to apply at No 273,
South Second Street. September 13. t t f it
Twenty Guineas Reward.
RAN AW AY from the fubferiber on the-23d O&ober,
a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSES; 11 years
old ; about 5 feet 8 inches high ; had on a muted green
coat, with a green velvet cape and oval yellow buttqna ;
a striped vest ; a pair of dark spotted pantaloons, and
whole boots mu#h worn. It is probable Ik mas change
his name and dress. He has bee«i accustomed to driving
a carriage., and waitings The above reward will be
paid for fccuring him so that the fubftribet may get him
j again, and if brought home all reofonable charges paid by
Robihs Chamberlaine.,
Maryland, Nov. to. 14 §im*awtf
Eafton
Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Dentist to the
King and Royal Family of France, member of the
College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris,
Keeps a complete afibr'tm;nt,of every thing neoefliry
to be „
Preservation of the Mouth and Teeth.
Patent Minoral Teeth, and Human & Ivory Teeth ;
Dentrifiee in powder ; Opiate ; cxpellent Elixir for
sweetening the mouth and preserving the teeth he
also furnilhee Bruflies and foft Sponges.
*„* He lives in Chefnut-ftreet, No* 135, above
Fburt'n-flreet.
44)45°
November 16
44.45°
Respectfully inarms the Gentlemen
Merchants, that he h»» this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in the
city of Philadel; hi*:
The Subscription Room vrill be furaiftied with all the
daily papers ia Philadelphia, New-York, Bos
ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com
mercial cities of Europe—They will be regularly filed
and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, IceCreams, and a variety
of Frcnch Liquors; together with the usual refrefhments,
will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the mod
approved Malt Liquors from London and other breweries.
! The Larder will befupplied with the prime and earliest
produ&ions of the Season.
Large and small Farties, or single Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppcr», at
i hours mod conv. nient to themfelve6 —a cold Collation is
' regularly kept for conveniency, the Billof Fare to be had
at the bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifhed, aad
' the utmost attention paid to deanlinefs, and every other
j requisite. ,
j 0- Samuel Rjcharpet will behappyto receive, and
execute the commands of his Fricpds, and the Public at
laro-e; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
! himfelf that nothing on his part ihali be wanting to pre
fervcthat patronage with which he has been so diftinguiih
iugly i'lonored.
j' Philadelphia. April iq
5000
1000
500
lobo
Treaiury Department,
September 28, 1796.
NOTICE is hereby given, that propofaU wril lie re
ceived at the office of the Secretary of the Trcafury
until the expiration of the firft day of March next en
suing, for the supply of all rations which may he required
for tlie use of the United States, from the firft day of
June, 1797, to the. thirty "-Aril day of May, 1798, both
days inclusive, at the pla«es and within the diftrifts here
after mentioned, vie. At Ofwego; j.t Niagara ; at
Pjefque lfie; at Sandufky Lake, and on Sandtilky
River ; at Detroit; at Michiiimackinac; at Fort-Frank
lin; at Pittsburgh ; at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hamilton ;
at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-jcfferfon ;'it Grenvillc; at
Pieque Town and Loramies Store; at Fort Adams; at
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance ; at any place b«low Fort
Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Erie; at Fort
Steuben ; at Fort Mafiic ; at any place from Fort Maffac
to the south boundary of the United Statss on the river
Mifliftppi; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiatanon.
If supplies (hall be required lor any posts or places not
mentioned in this notice, all such supplies shall be fur
nifhed at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
polls before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed on
.between the United States and the Contractor.
The rations to be fuppiicd are to consist of the fol
lowing articles, viz.
One pound two ounces of bread or flour.
One pound two ouncoe of beef, or fourteen ounces Qf
pork or bacon.
Half a gill of rum, brandy rr U-hifkey.
One quart and half a pint of fait."}
Two quarts of Vinegar, ( , )cr hundred ration?
Two pounds of Soap, (
One pound of Candles, J
The rations are to be furnifhed inf«ch quantities, as that
there shall at all times during the said term, be fuffieient
for the conljumptionof the troops nt Michilimackinac, De
troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, for the term of fix months in
advance, and at each of the other posts, for the term of
at least three months in advance, in good and wholclome
provisions, if thefame shall be required. It is to be un
derstood, that the ContraSor is to be « the ex»ence and
rifle of ifluirg die fuppliss to the troops at each pod, and
that all lofies fuftaiued by the depredations of an enemy, or
by means of the traops of the United States, ftiall be paid
for at the price of the articles captured or destroyed, on
the depositions of two cr more persons of creditable cha
ra&ers, and the certificate of a commiffioncd officer, at
ccrtaining the circumstances of the loss, and the amount
of thS atticloa for which aompsnfation ft all be claimed
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
a 0,000
141,000
goo,coo
MJMf
mwf2wmthtf.
Le Breton,
SURGEON-DENT IST,
Samuel Richardet
Se«r*tarjr «f the Treasury.
Washington Lottery.
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be purchifrd or
exchanged for prizes, at the Office, No. 147, ChiTmijr
street, where a corr»3; Numerical Bosk is kept for pubil:
infpe&ion. Also Canal Lottery Tickets for sale or ex- <
changed for prizes diaww in the Wafhingto* Lottery, of
which the 50th and 51ft days returns are received,
i-y- Th® Business of a Broker curried on as usual.
V A SHARK in the NEW THfiAIRE to be fold
on reasonable terms. December 29. ttstf
James M'Alpin, Taylor,
No. 3, South FourthJttert,
RETURNS hs grateful acknowledgments to his
Friends and the Public for their liberal encouragement,
and begs leave te solicit a continuance of their iavors.
He has on hand an extensive assortment of the
Moji Fajhionable GOODS,
And of the b<rft quality, suitable for the season.
At this ihop Gentlemen can be furnifhed withthe
materials, and have then made up in the nesteft and most
Fashionable manner, a»d on the fhortcG notice. He will , j
thankfully receive any orders, and pay a prompt and f
pun Anal attention to them.
November 10. ws
TO BE SOLD,
A LEASE for /even \ears 9 from the 2 $tb March next, in that
• capital and beautiful FARAI % called
PROSPEG T-H I L L,
' Situated within one quarter of a milfc'from the Brandywine
5 Mills, and halt a mile from the borough of Wilmington.
> 'T'HE* dwelling house is built of stone, two (lories hi 1,
* gentefly finifhed, and contains four handfrme rooms, on
a floor, beftdes an entry, with capital garrets, and convenient
cellars It is geneially thought to command the most a*
> greeabje profpeft of the Delaware, from the source of that
9 livei to the Capes. This profpeft ia greatly en.billifhcd by
3 a full view of a vast body ol meadow, through which the -
; Omftiana and Brandy wine creeks are feed winding ir. beau
d tiful meanders. Near the house are a Kitchen, a fpacioui
e hone Aable and hay loft, a barn, a carriage house, mifk-
U ftoufe, &c. and a well of as puie water as any on the conti
,c nent. The garden contains an acre and quarter of land, a
n bounding with fruit, and particularly with peach trees, of
the very befl kind, brought from Maryland, and in full bear
ing. There is, moreover, on the place, a you'.r, apple
orchard begining to bear, and several old tree« that produce
abundantly, besides cherry and other ornamental trees, in
great numbers. The farm consists of near sixty acres of land,,
of good quality, and clear of incumbrance*, except taxei,
twenty'of which are now in excellent clover and timothy,
[e and ten more will be ready for lowing next fpri»g. A re
fidenee of nearly 8 years has convinced the fubferiber that
IC the fnnation is remarkably healthy. The great post road
from Philadelphia to the Southward runs wjihin seventy
T yards of the house. In a word, the beauties and eonveni
, ence of this situation cannot be enumerated in an advertise
ment, and when examined, will probably command the at- I
tention of any person who isdefirous of living at one qntkc
1 ' most elegant country feats on the continent. The purehafer
3r may enter on the premif-S next spring, or perhaps, this fall,
if application be immediately made to Doctor NICHOL AS
WAY, in Philadelphia, to Do&or WH R I ON, otitic
or, in his absence, to Mr. GEORGE FRUIT T, in
Wilmington.
A quantity of excellent Hay, Grain in the ground, some j.
- Stock, See. may be had by the purehafer at the time of sale.
Nov. j eodtf
■y City ot Waihingtoa.
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11,
, e FOR THE IMPROVEMENT 0 t THK
t FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent ) 10,000 dollars, & }
'.dwelling-houfo, j "ft l 30,000, are ) '
• j ditto 15,000 & cafli 15,000 40,00®
ts ' I ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
. , 1 ditto 10,000 & c«fh 10,000 «0,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cafe 5,000 10,000
1 cash prize of 10,000
a do. 5,000 each, are *■ 10,000
be to do. 1,000 - - 10,000
at ao do. 500 • - 10,000
1 i s 00 do. 100 • - 10,000
lad aoo do. 50 10,000
J4OO do. a 5 - 10,000
ind 1,000 do. ao - ao,oo»
tier 15,000 do. I* 150,000
'"d 16,739 Prizes. •
at Rlankj.
ges —
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
llfl- ________ 1
N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity of
__ Tickets,the prixe of 40,000 dollars will be tke last drawn
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one :
And approved notes, seCuring payment in either money
or prizes in ten days alter drawing, will be received for
7 s " any number not kfs than 30 tickets.
ur y This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of thepri
e!l7 vate buildings to be ere&ed in the City of Washington—
rc<* Two beautiful designs are already fele&ed for the entire
°l fronts on two of the public squares; from these Drawings
' it is proposed to ereel two centre and four corner buildings,
- re »s soon as possible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
at them, when-complete, to the fortunate adventursrs, in
y the mannerdefcribed in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery,
"k" A nett deduflion of five per cent, will be made to defray
on * the necessary exprnfes of printing, the furplu*
at will be made a part of the fund intended for the National
i at University, to be creeled within the city of Wafliington.
" ort The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
\S rt old off.—The money priics will .be payable in thirty days
c after ill is finifhed ; and any prize* for which foctunate
iver n*mbers aie not produced within twelve months after th«
drawing is closed, are to be confidercd as given toward*
s not the fund for the University ;it being determined to fettle
tu ' r " the whole business in a year from the ending of the dr&w
ing, and to take up the bonds given as security.
on The real securities given for the payment of the Prizes,
f : are held by the.President and two Dire<9ors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
mount of the lottery.
, The twe»ty four gentlemen who by appointment o£
s the late CommiSioners aflifted in the management of the
Hotel Lottery are requefled to undertake this arduous tafh
a second time on behalf ef the public ; a fufficient nufn
ber of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
ions friends to a National University and the other federal eb
jo&s may continue to favor the design.
By accounts received from the different parts of th«
Continent as well at from Europe, where the ticketi
have been sent for sale, the public are afTured that ths
drawing will speedily commsn«e, and that th« care and
in f ca»tion"unav»idably necessary to insure a fafe disposal of
" 0 tlw tickets, has rendered the fhorr fufpejificu indifpenfablc.
'; ,me SAMUEL BLGDGET.
U ",i »§« Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; of
:an , James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Feter Oilman, Boston -
1 r an of John Hopkins, Richmond : and of Richard Wells'
paid Cooper's Ferry. eo
i, on —r —~ I, n, ,1 in 1
! cha- ■■ f * —
r ' af " PRINTED BY JOHN FE N NO,
f flt —No. 119—
C H ES N UT-ST a F E V.
ry. [Pricc Eight Dollafi p«r \EmirH.;
tthf
mwf